Ona,  diuundhstL  Jhbiiisdh, 
SEMI-ANNUAL 

conmcf 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

OdoJbsUL  7,  8,  and,  9, 1960 

With  Report  of  Discourses 

Published  by 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Thirtieth  Semi-annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Thirtieth  Semi- 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday, 
October  7,  8,  and  9,  1960. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00  p.m., 
Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  and  the 
General  Priesthood  meeting  was  held  in 
the  Tabernacle,  Saturday  evening,  Octo- 
ber 8,  at  7:00. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  ses- 
sions were  broadcast  and  telecast  over 
Station  KSL  and  KSL-TV  at  Salt  Lake 
City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL 
the  following  stations  made  available 
to  their  listening  or  viewing  audiences 
one  or  more  of  the  six  general  sessions: 

In  Utah:  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KSUB 
at  Cedar  City,  KVEL  at  Vernal,  KVNU 
at  Logan,  KDXU  at  St.  George. 

In  Arizona:  KGUN-TV  at  Tucson, 
KPHO  and  KPHO-TV  at  Phoenix, 
KCLS  at  Flagstaff,  KVWM  at  Show 
Low. 

In  California:  KSRO  at  Santa  Rosa, 
KRDG  at  Redding,  KEEN  at  San  Jose, 
KOVR-TV  at  Stockton,  KGO-TV  at  San 
Francisco,  KTTV  at  Los  Angeles. 

In  Colorado:  KBTV  at  Denver. 

In  Idaho:  KRXK  at  Rexburg,  KID  and 
KID-TV  at  Idaho  Falls,  KPST  at  Pres- 
ton, KBRV  at  Soda  Springs,  KBOI-TV 
at  Boise. 

In  Montana:  KOOK-TV  at  Billings, 
KXLF-TV  at  Butte,  KFBB-TV  at  Great 
Falls,  KXLJ-TV  at  Helena. 

In  Nevada:  KSHO-TV  at  Las  Vegas. 

In  Mexico:  KRSN  at  Los  Alamos. 

In  Oregon,  K-KID  at  Pendleton. 

In  Washington:  KOMO-TV  at  Seat- 
tle, KREM-TV  at  Spokane,  KNDO-TV 
at  Yakima. 

All  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  on 
Temple  Square,  in  Barratt  Hall  (60 
North  Main  Street),  over  a  loudspeaking 


system  and  by  television.  Thousands, 
in  addition  listened  to  the  services  on 
the  Tabernacle  Grounds  by  means  of 
amplifying  equipment. 

The  proceedings  of  the  General  Priest- 
hood meeting  were  broadcast  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall  over 
public  address  systems,  and  by  direct 
wire  over  a  public  address  system  to 
members  of  the  Priesthood  in  other 
assemblies  throughout  the  United  States, 
and  in  Canada  and  New  Zealand. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided, 
and  conducted  the  services  at  each  of 
the  sessions  of  the  Conference,  including 
the  General  Priesthood  meeting. 

A  full  report  of  Columbia  Broadcasting 
System's  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ 
broadcast  is  also  included  in  this  record. 
(See  pages  118  to  119.) 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  was  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  David  O. 
McKay,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,*  and  Henry 
D.  Moyle. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Harold  B.  Lee, 
Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson, 
Mark  E.  Petersen,  Delbert  L.  Stapley, 
Marion  G.  Romney,  LeGrand  Richards, 
Richard  L.  Evans,  **,  Hugh  B.  Brown, 
and  Howard  W.  Hunter. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G. 
Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Alma  Sonne,  EIRay  L.  Christiansen, 
John  Longden,  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Gordon 
B.  Hinckley,  Henry  D.  Taylor,  William 
J.  Critchlow,  Jr.,  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Nathan 
Eldon    Tanner,***    Franklin  Dewey 

*President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  attended  only  the 
Sunday  morning  meeting. 

**Elder  George  Q.  Morris  was  absent  because  of 
illness. 

***Elder  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner  was  sustained  as 
one  of  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Richards,****  and  Theodore  Moyle 
Burton.***** 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy: 
******,  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Seymour  Dil- 
worth  Young,  Milton  R.  Hunter,  Bruce 
R.  McConkie,  Marion  Duff  Hanks,  and 
Albert  Theodore  Tuttle. 

Presiding  Bishopric:  Joseph  L.  Wirth- 
lin,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  and  Carl  W. 
Buehner. 

General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Jo- 
seph Fielding  Smith,  and  assistants,  A. 
William  Lund  and  Preston  Nibley. 

Members  of  the  General  Welfare  Com- 
mittee, Church  Welfare  Program. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of 
Education  and  Administrator  Church 
Board  of  Education,  Directors  and  Asso- 
ciate Directors  of  Institutes,  and  Semin- 
ary Instructors. 

****Elder  Franklin  Dewey  Richards  was  sustained 
as  one  of  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles. 

*****Elder  Theodore  Moyle  Burton  was  sustained 
as  one  of  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles. 

*  *  *  *  *  "Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young  was  absent  because 
of  illness. 


Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coun- 
selors, Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs, 
High  Priests,  Seventies,  Elders;  General, 
Stake,  and  Ward  officers  of  Auxiliary 
Associations,  etc.,  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church. 

Mission  Presidents:  Richard  L.  Evans, 
Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City;  Bryan  L. 
Bunker,  California;  Thomas  S.  Monson, 
Canadian;  George  Z.  Aposhian,  Central 
Atlantic  States;  Samuel  R.  Carpenter, 
Central  States;  Frank  H.  Brown,  East 
Central  States;  Gerald  G.  Smith,  Eastern 
States;  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  European;  Clif- 
ford O.  Gledhill,  Great  Lakes;  Lincoln 
F.  Hanks,  Gulf  States;  Harvey  H.  Taylor, 
Mexican;  John  E.  Carr,  New  England; 
Clement  P.  Hilton,  North  Central 
States;  Warren  E.  Pugh,  Northern  Cali- 
fornia; Israel  I.  Bentley,  Northern 
Mexican;  Richard  W.  Maycock,  North- 
ern States;  Franklin  D.  Richards,  North- 
western States;  J.  Byron  Ravsten, 
Southern  States;  Fred  W.  Turley,  South- 
west Indian;  Ralph  E.  Brown,  Spanish 
American;  Casper  W.  Merrill,  West 
Central  States;  Leland  M.  Perry,  West 
Spanish  American;  Parley  A.  Arave, 
Western  Canadian;  David  S.  Romney, 
Western  States. 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  first  session  of  the  One  Hundred 
Thirtieth  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  convened  in  the  great  Taber- 
nacle (Salt  Lake  City,  Utah)  Friday 
morning,  October  7,  at  10:00  a.m. 
President  David  O.  McKay  presided,  and 
conducted  the  services  of  the  meeting. 

The  music  for  this  session  of  the 
Conference  was  furnished  by  the  Relief 
Society  Singing  Mothers  from  the  Ogden 
and  Northern  Utah  Regions,  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen,  Conductor,  Alexander 
Schreiner,  Organist. 

President  McKay  opened  the  Con- 
ference with  the  following  introductory 
remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the 
One  Hundred  Thirtieth  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened 
in  the  historic  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square. 

Yesterday  and  Wednesday,  this  house 
was  filled  with  sisters  of  the  Relief 
Society.  We  commend  the  presidency 
of  the  Relief  Society  and  the  members 
of  the  General  Board  upon  the  excellent 
program  they  have  given  to  the  sisters 
of  the  Church.  They  truly  had  a  spirit- 
ual feast. 

All  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church  are  in  attendance  this  morning, 
excepting  three  of  the  leading  Brethren 
whose  absence  you  all  note:  President 
Clark  sends  his  love  to  all,  but  heeding 
the  doctor's  orders  he  is  confined  this 
morning  to  his  room;  so  is  President  Levi 
Edgar  Young  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy  and  Elder  George  Q.  Morris 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  All  three 
send  their  love  to  you  this  morning  and 
invoke  your  faith  and  prayers  in  their 
behalf  as  they  are  extending  theirs  in 
yours. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  is  Clerk  of  the 
Conference. 

For  the  convenience  of  those  who  are 
unable  to  enter  this  building,  and  the 
building  is  crowded  to  capacity,  we  an- 
nounce that  these  services  and  all  gen- 


eral sessions  of  the  Conference  will  be 
broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  and 
Barratt  Hall  by  television.  The  general 
sessions  of  this  Conference  will  be  broad- 
cast as  a  public  service  over  television 
and  radio  stations  throughout  the  West, 
over  62  radio  stations  and  45  television 
stations.  The  names  of  these  stations 
have  already  been  announced  to  the 
television  and  radio  audiences.  We  wish 
to  express  appreciation  to  the  owners  of 
these  stations  who  render  this  public 
service.  According  to  a  survey  that  has 
been  made,  it  is  possible  that  over  a 
million  people  will  hear  and  see  the 
proceedings  of  this  Conference.  This 
figure  is  based  on  the  ratio  of  each  city 
carrying  the  Conference  and  the  number 
of  viewers  in  each  city. 

To  this  large  audience,  to  the  over- 
flow gatherings  in  the  Assembly  Hall 
and  Barratt  Hall,  in  behalf  of  the  First 
Presidency,  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
and  the  other  General  Authorities,  we 
bid  you  all  a  hearty  welcome. 

Any  important  messages  that  come  to 
us  to  persons  attending  the  sessions  will 
be  announced  at  the  dismissal  of  the 
meetings  over  the  public  address  system 
on  the  grounds. 

We  are  favored  this  morning  in  hav- 
ing the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
from  the  Ogden  and  Northern  Utah 
Regions,  who  will  furnish  the  music 
for  the  sessions  of  the  Conference  today. 
It  is  a  joy  to  have  these  mothers  present 
this  morning.  They  were  with  the  Re- 
lief Society  yesterday  and  the  day  before. 

The  lovely  Hawaiian  flowers,  anther- 
iums,  which  you  see  arranged  on  the 
rostrum  and  pulpit,  were  sent  by  airplane 
with  the  love  and  affection  of  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Honolulu  Stake.  We  express 
appreciation  to  them  for  their  thought- 
fulness  in  supplying  these  beautiful 
blooms  for  our  enjoyment  during  the 
Conference  sessions.  Fifty  years  ago  we 
could  not  have  had  this  pleasure.  These 
flowers  were  blooming  in  Hawaii  yes- 
terday and  are  here  in  your  presence 
today. 

The  following  is  a  telegram  from  the 
Andes  Mission,  Lima,  Peru: 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  7 

"Greetings  from  the  Andes  Mission. 
All  are  well.  .  .  ."  That  mission  was 
just  organized,  where  they  had  the 
earthquake  recently.  ".  .  .  May  you  have 
an  inspirational  conference."  Signed  by 
President  J.  Vernon  Sharp. 

Here  is  one  from  the  North  British 
Mission,  Manchester:  "The  missionaries 
and  saints  of  the  North  British  Mission 
send  their  sustaining  vote  and  love 
and  wish  you  an  inspiring  General  Con- 
ference. We  shall  be  there  with  our 
prayers  and  spirit."  Signed  by  President 
Bernard  P.  Brockbank. 

We  desire  to  acknowledge  the  presence 
with  us  this  morning  of  the  following 
prominent  persons.  I  am  sure  you  will 
all  be  pleased  to  know  who  many  of 
these  are.  We  have  a  long  list,  but 
the  following  have  been  observed: 
Brother  Ezra  Taft  Benson  is  with  us, 
the  Secretary  of  Agriculture,  a  member 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve;  Senator 
Wallace  F.  Bennett,  Senator  Frank  E. 
Moss,  Congressman  David  S.  King,  Gov- 
ernor George  Dewey  Clyde,  Lamont  F. 
Toronto,  Utah  Secretary  of  State.  Presi- 
dent Ernest  L.  Wilkinson  is  excused;  he 
is  out  of  the  state  attending  a  convention. 
Dr.  John  L.  Clarke,  president  of  Ricks 
College;  Dr.  William  P.  Miller,  presi- 
dent of  Weber  College.  I  thnk  there  are 
are  others  here  whom  we  have  not  seen. 
President  Olpin  I  do  not  see.  We  miss 
Brother  Allen  Bateman.  He  usually 
had  his  place.  You  all  know  that  he 
was  called  suddenly  home  just  the  other 
day.  I  don't  see  Dr.  Chase,  either,  or 
Dr.  M.  Lynn  Bennion. 


First  Day 

We  are  pleased  also  to  have  our  stake 
presidencies,  bishoprics,  temple  presi- 
dents and  general  auxiliary  officers. 
There  are  present  also  today  our  mission 
presidents  from  the  United  States, 
Mexico,  Central  America,  Canada,  and 
Hawaii.  To  all  we  extend  a  hearty 
welcome. 

We  shall  begin  this  session  by  the 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  render- 
ing, "The  Lord  Is  My  Light,"  conducted 
by  Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen. 
The  invocation  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Ben  E.  Lewis,  president  of  the  East 
Sharon  Stake. 


The  opening  musical  number  was 
rendered  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers,  "The  Lord  Is  My  Light." 

Elder  Ben  E.  Lewis,  president  of  the 
East  Sharon  Stake,  offered  the  invoca- 
tion. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  just  offered  by 
President  Ben  E.  Lewis,  president  of  the 
East  Sharon  Stake. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  sing,  "Come,  Ye  Blessed  Of 
My  Father,"  conducted  by  Sister  Flor- 
ence Jepperson  Madsen.  I  did  not  tell 
you  that  Alexander  Schreiner  is  at  the 
organ,  accompanying  these  singers. 

Selection  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers,  "Come,  Ye  Blessed  Of  My 
Father." 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


That  is  glorious.  I  am  sure  you  will 
agree  with  me  that  the  singing  of  these 
beautiful  women,  our  mothers,  bears 
evidence  of  the  truth  of  the  Lord's  say- 
ing, "The  song  of  the  righteous  is  a 
prayer  unto  me."  (D&C  25:12.)  God 
bless  them! 

"But  when  the  Pharisees  had  heard 
that  he  had  put  the  Sadducees  to  si- 
lence, they  were  gathered  together. 

"Then  one  of  them,  which  was  a 
lawyer,  asked  him  a  question,  tempting 
him,  and  saying, 

"Master,  which  is  the  great  command- 
ment in  the  law? 


"Jesus  said  unto  him,  Thou  shalt  love 
the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart, 
and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy 
mind. 

"This  is  the  first  and  great  command- 
ment. 

"And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou 
shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as  thyself. 

"On  these  two  commandments  hang 
all  the  law  and  the  prophets."  (Matthew 
22:34-40.) 

I  am  glad  that  text  is  in  keeping  with 
the  plea  made  by  Brother  Lewis  at  the 
opening  of  the  session  in  his  invocation, 
and  that  that  spirit  of  faith  in  God  and 


PRESIDENT  D 

love  for  one's  fellows  dominates  this 
session. 

Many  who  deny  his  divinity  declare 
him  to  be  the  one  perfect  character, 
the  peerless  personality  of  history.  Mil- 
lions accept  him  as  the  Great  Teacher, 
whose  teachings,  however,  are  not  ap- 
plicable to  modern  social  conditions.  A 
few  accept  him  for  what  he  really  is — 
"the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father";  who 
came  into  the  world,  even  Jesus,  to  be 
crucified  for  the  world  and  to  bear  the 
sins  of  the  world. 

Last  Monday  morning,  October  third, 
the  Premier  of  Soviet  Russia  threatened 
that  if  the  United  Nations  does  not 
reorganize  as  he  demands,  the  commu- 
nist bloc  will  "rely  on  their  own 
strength  to  block  us."  He  also  threat- 
ened to  ignore  the  United  Nation's 
peace-making  machinery  unless  the  Sec- 
retary General  of  the  United  Nations 
resign,  and  his  position,  that  is,  the 
Secretary's  position,  be  replaced  by  a 
communist-styled,  three-man  presidium 
armed  with  veto  powers. 

Who  is  this  man  who  presumes  to  tell 
the  United  Nations  what  to  do?  He  is 
a  man  who  rejects  the  divinity  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  denies  the  existence  of  God, 
who  is  imbued  with  the  false  philosophy 
of  Karl  Marx,  whose  aim  in  life  was 
"to  dethrone  God  and  destroy  capital- 
ism." He  is  a  follower  of  Lenin,  who 
said,  "I  want  children  to  hate  their 
parents  who  are  not  communists."  The 
followers  of  these  men,  to  gain  their 
ends,  "resort  to  all  sorts  of  stratagems, 
maneuvers,  illegal  methods,  evasions, 
and  subterfuges."  This  atheistic  atti- 
tude, and  the  advice  to  hate  others, 
even  one's  own  family,  is  just  the  oppo- 
site of  the  spirit  of  love  as  manifest 
and  taught  by  the  Savior.  In  sessions 
in  another  part  of  the  United  States 
are  men  who  believe  as  I  have  indi- 
cated and  who  are  willing  to  resort  to 
any  subterfuge,  any  scheme,  that  will 
further  their  ends  to  dethrone  God.  We 
appeal  to  God,  who  exists  and  lives,  and 
with  whom  we  are  in  harmony  this 
morning — we  have  met  in  the  name  of 
his  Beloved  Son. 

About  fifty  years  ago,  Lord  Balfour, 
Prime  Minister  of  Great  Britain,  deliv- 
ered a  lecture  in  the  McEwen  Hall  of 
the  University  of  Edinburgh,  upon  the 
subject,  "The  Moral  Value  which  Unites 


/ID  O.  McKAY  5 

the  Nations," — the  moral  values.  In  an 
interesting  and  convincing  manner,  the 
gentleman  presented  the  fundamental 
ties  that  unite  the  different  nations  of 
the  world:  First,  common  knowledge; 
second,  common  commercial  interests; 
third,  the  intercourse  of  diplomatic  re- 
lationships; fourth,  the  bonds  of  human 
friendships. 

The  audience  greeted  his  masterful 
address  with  a  great  outburst  of  ap- 
plause. As  the  presiding  officer  arose  to 
express  his  appreciation  and  that  of  the 
audience,  a  Japanese  student  who  was 
doing  graduate  work  at  the  university 
stood  up,  and  leaning  over  the  balcony 
said,  "But  Mr.  Balfour,  what  about 
Jesus  Christ?" 

Mr.  Robin  E.  Spear,  to  whom  Profes- 
sor Lang  related  this  incident,  writes 
as  follows:  "One  could  have  heard  a 
pin  drop  in  the  hall.  Everyone  felt  at 
once  the  justice  of  the  rebuke.  The  lead- 
ing statesman  of  the  greatest  Christian 
empire  in  the  world  had  been  dealing 
with  the  different  ties  that  are  to  unite 
mankind  and  had  omitted  the  one 
fundamental  and  essential  bond.  And 
everyone  felt,  too,  the  dramatic  element 
in  the  situation — that  the  reminder  of 
his  forgetfulness  had  come  from  a  Jap- 
anese student  from  a  faraway,  non- 
Christian  land." 

Nearly  two  thousand  years  ago, 
Christ's  chief  apostle  on  one  occasion, 
when  he  was  arraigned  before  the  Jews 
for  having  healed  an  impotent  man, 
made  the  following  declaration: 

"Be  it  known  unto  you  all,  and  to 
all  the  people  of  Israel,  that  by  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Nazareth,  whom 
ye  crucified,  whom  God  raised  from  the 
dead,  even  by  him  doth  this  man  stand 
here  before  you  whole. 

"This  is  the  stone  which  was  set  at 
nought  of  you  builders,  which  is  be- 
come the  head  of  the  corner. 

"Neither  is  there  salvation  in  any 
other:  for  there  is  none  other  name 
under  heaven  given  among  men,  where- 
by we  must  be  saved."  (Acts  4:10-12.) 

That  was  a  most  dramatic  occasion, 
and  it  took  strength  and  fearlessness  to 
make  that  statement  to  those  men,  some 
of  whom  had  participated  in  Christ's 
crucifixion.  Peter,  on  that  occasion,  bore 
a  strong  testimony  to  those  people. 
These  officers  warned  Peter  and  John 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


6 

Friday,  October  7 

not  to  preach  Jesus  Christ  and  him 
crucified,  but  they  heard  Peter  and  John 
answer  as  I  have  read,  and  they  saw  the 
impotent  man  standing  before  them 
healed.  They  counseled  among  them- 
selves what  to  do.  Returning,  they  cau- 
tioned Peter  and  John  not  to  preach 
Jesus  Christ,  but  Peter,  as  spokesman 
under  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  an- 
swered: 

"Whether  it  be  right  in  the  sight  of 
God  to  hearken  unto  you  more  than 
unto  God,  judge  ye. 

"For  we  cannot  but  speak  the  things 
which  we  have  seen  and  heard."  (Ibid., 
4:19-20.) 

The  knowledge  that  Jesus  is  truly  the 
Son  of  the  Living  God  had  been  de- 
clared by  Peter  in  the  presence  of  his 
Master  on  an  occasion  when  Jesus  and 
his  apostles  were  at  Caesarea  Philippi, 
when  Christ  had  asked  his  disciples, 

".  .  .  Whom  do  men  say  that  I  the 
Son  of  man  am?  [a  grammatical  error, 
by  the  way,  which  comes  down  through 
the  ages.] 

"And  they  said,  Some  say  that  thou 
art  John  the  Baptist;  some,  Elias;  and 
others,  Jcremias,  or  one  of  the  prophets. 

"[And  Jesus]  saith  unto  them,  But 
whom  say  ye  that  I  am?" 

"And  Simon  Peter,  [the  spokesman, 
fearless,  impetuous  by  nature  answered], 
Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God. 

"And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto 
him,  Blessed  art  thou,  Simon  Barjona, 
[Simon,  son  of  Jona] ;  for  flesh  and  blood 
hath  not  revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my 
Father  which  is  in  heaven. 

"And  I  say  also  unto  thee,  That  thou 
art  Peter  [Simon's  other  name,  which 
means  a  rock],  and  upon  this  rock  [of 
revelation]  I  will  build  my  church;  and 
the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against 
it."  (Matthew  16:13-18.  Italics  added.) 

Comparatively  speaking,  only  a  small 
group  of  men  and  women  knew  him  as 
he  really  is — the  Son  of  God,  the  Re- 
deemer of  mankind.  This  testimony  has 
been  revealed  to  every  sincere  man  and 
woman  who  has  conformed  to  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  who 
has  obeyed  the  ordinances  and  become 
entitled  to  and  has  received  the  Spirit 
of  God  and  that  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
Every  individual  stands  independent  in 
his  sphere  in  that  testimony,  just  as 


First  Day 

these  thousands  of  incandescent  lamps 
which  make  Salt  Lake  City  so  brilliant 
at  night,  each  one  of  which  stands  and 
shines  in  its  own  sphere,  yet  the  light 
in  it  is  produced  by  the  same  power, 
the  same  energy  from  which  all  the 
other  lights  receive  their  energy.  So  each 
individual  in  the  Church  stands  inde- 
pendently in  his  sphere,  independently 
in  the  knowledge  that  God  lives,  that 
the  Savior  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
and  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
has  been  restored  through  Joseph  Smith 
the  Prophet. 

"To  some  it  is  given,"  says  the  Lord 
in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  "by  the 
Holy  Ghost  to  know  that  Jesus  is  the 
Son  of  God,  and  that  he  was  crucified 
for  the  sins  of  the  world."  (D&C  46:13.) 

It  is  to  these  I  refer  who  stand  firm 
upon  the  rock  of  revelation  in  the  tes- 
timony that  they  bear  to  the  world.  But 
the  Lord  says  further  that  there  are 
those  to  whom  it  is  given  to  believe 
upon  the  testimony  of  the  words  of 
others.  Note  that.  They  believe  upon 
the  words  of  others  that  they  may  also 
receive  salvation  if  they  continue  faith- 
ful. For  all  these,  however,  there  comes 
a  testimony  also  of  daily  experience.  The 
members  of  the  Church  throughout  the 
world  find  confirmation  of  their  testi- 
mony in  every  performance  of  duty. 
They  know  that  the  gospel  teaches  them 
to  be  better  individuals,  that  obedience 
to  the  principles  of  the  gospel  makes 
them  stronger  men  and  truer  women. 
Every  day  such  knowledge  comes  to 
them,  and  they  cannot  gainsay  it.  They 
know  that  obedience  to  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  makes  them  happier,  better, 
and  truer  husbands,  true  and  honored 
wives,  obedient  children.  They  know 
that  obedience  to  the  principles  of  the 
gospel  makes  them  in  every  respect  ideal 
home  builders.  The  ideal  is  there.  They 
sense  it  in  their  minds.  They  cannot 
gainsay  it.  They  know  it,  and  they  know 
that  transgression  of  these  principles 
will  have  the  opposite  effect  upon  their 
individual  lives  and  upon  their  home 
lives.  They  know  that  obedience  to 
the  gospel  rosters  true  brotherhood  and 
fellowship  among  mankind.  They  know 
that  they  are  better  citizens  by  virtue 
of  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances. 
So,  as  they  go  through  their  daily 
activities  and  apply  religion  in  their 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


7 


weekly  vocations,  the  truth  of  the  gos- 
pel becomes  exemplified  in  their  lives, 
thus  with  a  testimony  of  the  Spirit, 
the  testimony  of  reason,  and  the  testi- 
mony of  daily  experience,  members  of 
the  Church  throughout  the  world  stand 
impregnable. 

I  have  always  been  strongly  im- 
pressed with  a  statement  by  Thomas 
Nixon  Carver  in  his  book,  The  Religion 
Worth  Having,  wherein  he  says: 

"The  church  that  can  say  to  the  un- 
churched, 'Our  way  is  best  because  it 
works  best,  our  people  are  efficient, 
prosperous,  and  happy  because  we  are  a 
body  who  aid  one  another  in  the  pro- 
ductive life;  we  waste  none  of  our  sub- 
stance in  vice,  luxury,  or  ostentation; 
we  do  not  dissipate  our  energy  in 
brawling,  gambling,  or  unwholesome 
habits;  we  conserve  our  resources  of  body 
and  mind  and  devote  them  to  the  up- 
building of  the  Kingdom  of  God,  which 
is  not  a  mystical,  but  a  real  kingdom; 
it  is  a  body  of  people  dominated  by 
ideas  of  productivity,  which  is  mutual 
service.  We  do  not  strive  for  the  things 
that  satisfy  but  for  the  moment  and 
then  leave  a  bad  taste;  we  strive  for  the 
things  which  build  us  up  and  enable 
us  and  our  children  to  become  strong, 
to  flourish,  and  to  conquer.  We  strive 
to  make  ourselves  worthy  to  receive 
the  world  by  fitting  ourselves  to  use  the 
world  more  productively  than  others. 
We  believe  that  obedience  to  God  means 
obedience  to  the  laws  of  nature,  which 
are  but  the  manifestations  of  His  will, 
and  we  try  by  painstaking  study  to  ac- 
quire a  most  complete  and  exact  knowl- 
edge of  that  will,  in  order  that  we  may 
conform  ourselves  to  it.  We  believe 
that  a  reverence  for  God  is  respect  for 
these  laws;  that  meekness  is  teachable- 
ness and  willingness  to  learn  by  obser- 
vation and  experience.  By  practicing 
this  kind  of  meekness  or  teachableness 
we  believe  that  we  shall  inherit  the 
earth,  whereas  the  unmeek,  the  unteach- 
able,  who  are  dominated  by  pride  of 
tradition,  shall  not.  We  offer  you  hard 
work,  frugal  fare,  severe  discipline,  but 
a  share  in  the  conquest  of  the  world 
for  the  religion  of  the  productive  life.' 
Such  a  church,"  he  continues,  "is 
founded  upon  the  rock  of  economic  ef- 
ficiency and  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not 
prevail  against  it." 


My  testimony,  as  yours,  is  that  this 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  can  offer  to  the 
world  all  the  good  things  which  this 
author  is  looking  for,  and  more,  because 
God  has  revealed  more  in  the  govern- 
ment and  conduct  of  his  Church. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  testimony 
of  the  gospel  is  an  anchor  to  the  soul 
in  the  midst  of  confusion  and  strife. 
Knowledge  of  God  and  his  laws  means 
stability,  means  contentment,  means 
peace,  and  with  that  a  heart  full  of  love 
reaching  out  to  our  fellow  men,  offering 
the  same  blessings,  the  same  privileges. 
Love  will  beget  tolerance  and  kindness. 

Now  I  suggest  that  during  the  next 
month  or  so,  when  our  towns  and  cities 
and  states  will  be  more  or  less  stirred 
by  political  contention,  that  we  restrain 
our  tempers,  control  our  tongues,  and  try 
to  manifest  charity  and  love  for  one 
another.  Let  us  not  besmear  our  brother's 
reputation.  I  mean  that  while  we  are 
urging  our  particular  political  belief, 
that  we  avoid  dealing  in  personalities. 
We  cannot  afford  to  hurt  our  brother's 
feelings  and  wound  him. 

Leaders  in  the  Church,  in  fact  all 
members  thereof,  are  striving  to  estab- 
lish the  kingdom  of  God.  Let  us  hold 
to  that  fact  as  the  anchor  of  our  soul 
and  then  breathe  forth  charity  and  love 
to  those  who  may  not  see  just  as  we  do. 

"Oh,  brother  Man!  fold  to  thy  heart  thy 
brother, 

Where  pity  dwells,  the  peace  of  God  is 
there; 

To  worship  rightly  is  to  love  each  other, 
Each  smile  a  hymn,  each  kindly  deed  a 
prayer. 

"Follow  with  reverent  steps  the  great 
example 

Of  Him  whose  holy  work  was  'doing 
good'; 

So  shall  the  wide  earth  seem  our  Father's 
temple, 

Each  loving  life  a  psalm  of  gratitude. 

"Then  shall  all  shackles  fall;  the  stormy 
clangor 

Of  wild  war  music  o'er  the  earth  shall 
cease; 

Love  shall  tread  out  the  baleful  fire  of 
anger, 

And  in  its  ashes  plant  the  tree  of  peace!" 

(John  Greenleaf  Whittier) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


8 

Friday,  October  7 

In  conclusion,  let  us  stand  with  our 
hearts  centered  and  our  aims  firmly 
fixed  upon  this  eternal  truth — that  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  among  men  for 
the  redemption  and  salvation  of  the 
human  family.  Let  us  go  forth  in  that 
spirit  and  deal  with  our  fehow  men  in 
the  spirit  of  love  and  kindness.  Let  us 
work  in  our  councils,  in  our  quorums, 
guided  by  that  same  spirit. 

God  grant  that  we  may  remain  true 
to  the  Church,  that  we  may  ever  be 
found  defending  the  men  whom  God 
has  called  to  guide  us,  and  realize  that 
harmony  with  them  means  that  we  are 
in  harmony  with  God,  for  he  sustains 


First  Day 

them.  I  pray  for  this  blessing  for  all 
of  us  throughout  the  entire  world,  and 
that  each  member  may  carry  the  re- 
sponsibility of  his  membership  in  the 
Church  preparatory  to  the  establishment 
of  the  kingdom  of  God,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  next  speaker  this  morning  will 
be  Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy. 


ELDER  HENR 

Assistant  to  the  Council 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  after  lis- 
tening to  President  McKay's  inspiring 
message,  I  feel  that  all  of  us,  from  the 
bottom  of  our  hearts,  can  say,  "We 
thank  thee,  Heavenly  Father,  for  a 
prophet  to  guide  us  in  these  latter  days." 

While  World  War  I  was  raging  in 
Europe,  there  were  certain  individuals 
here  at  home  who  would  sit  back  in 
their  easy  armchairs,  surround  them- 
selves with  maps,  and  follow  the  prog- 
ress of  battle  by  reading  the  newspapers. 
They  were  extremely  critical  of  the  gen- 
erals and  those  who  were  directing  the 
campaigns  and  were  very  eager  and  vocal 
in  outlining  the  strategy  they  would  em- 
ploy if  in  similar  positions  of  leadership. 
These  individuals  were  referred  to  as 
"armchair  generals." 

Prior  to  demolition  of  old  buildings  or 
the  construction  of  new  buildings,  a  solid 
fence  is  built  to  protect  passersby.  It  has 
become  a  practice  to  bore  holes  in  the 
fence  or  to  instal  glass  portholes.  From 
these  observation  points  many  pause  and 
watch  with  interest  the  demolition  or 
construction  activities.  There  are  those 
among  the  viewers  who  would  improve 
the  way  the  job  is  run.  Some  would 
knock  a  building  down  immediately, 
while  others  would  have  it  done  bit  by 
bit.  Then  there  are  those  who  would 
make  changes  in  the  architectural  design 
of  the  building.  Others  are  critical  of 
the  manner  in  which  the  cement  is 
poured,  the  bricks  are  laid,  and  the  glass 


I  D.  TAYLOR 

of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

is  installed.  These  persons  are  known  as 
"sidewalk  superintendents." 

Then  there  is  another  group  belong- 
ing to  this  category.  While  riding  in  a 
car  they  are  continually  offering  sug- 
gestions to  the  driver  as  to  how  the  car 
should  be  operated,  the  speed  that  should 
be  traveled,  when  to  turn,  and  the  sig- 
nals to  be  employed.  These  are  the 
"back  seat  drivers." 

The  Church  becomes  an  object  of 
criticism  from  just  such  "experts."  They 
are  dissatisfied  with  the  manner  in 
which  the  superintendent  manages  the 
Sunday  School.  They  find  fault  with 
the  way  the  bishop  conducts  the  affairs 
of  the  ward.  The  stake  president  does 
not  please  them,  and  they  criticize  his 
administration.  They  are  unhappy  with 
the  way  the  tithing  is  disbursed.  These 
are  the  persons  who  find  no  fault  with 
their  own  actions,  but  seem  willing  and 
anxious  to  confess  another  person's  sins. 

The  Savior  was  chastising  such  groups 
as  these  when  he  said:  "And  why  be- 
holdest  thou  the  mote  that  is  within  thy 
brother's  eye,  but  considereth  not  the 
beam  that  is  within  thine  own  eye?  .  .  . 
Thou  hypocrite,  first  cast  out  the  beam 
out  of  thine  own  eye;  and  then  shalt 
thou  see  clearly  to  cast  out  the  mote  out 
of  thy  brother's  eye."  (Matthew  7:3-5.) 

I  believe  that  is  the  same  thought  that 
the  poet  Burns  desired  to  express  when 
he  penned  the  lines: 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 


9 


"O  wad  some  Power  the  giftie  gie  us 

To  see  oursels  as  ithers  see  us!" 

(Robert  Burns,  To  a  Louse) 

I  assure  you  that  I  am  not  against 
criticism,  if  it  is  the  right  kind.  Con- 
structive criticism  can  be  good  and  help- 
ful. Destructive  criticism  can  be  bad 
and  harmful.  Many  years  ago  my  mis- 
sion president  gave  this  sound  advice: 
"If  criticism  is  just  and  given  kindly, 
accept  it  and  give  thanks  for  it.  If  it  is 
just  and  given  unkindly,  accept  it.  But 
if  it  is  unjust  and  given  unkindly,  pay 
no  heed  to  it." 

A  critical  attitude  and  faultfinding 
with  the  Church,  if  persisted  in,  can 
easily  lead  to  apostasy.  A  good  motto  to 
adopt  and  follow  is,  "If  you  can't  im- 
prove on  silence,  say  nothing."  It  is  my 
deep  and  firm  conviction  that  the  Lord 
set  up  his  Church  in  these  latter  days 
and  has  selected  prophets  to  lead  the 
Saints.  There  is  but  one  on  earth  at  a 
time  called  to  exercise  the  keys  of  the 
Holy  Priesthood.  He  may  delegate  to 
others  the  power  and  authority  to  act  for 
him  in  such  capacity  as  he  will,  but  he 
alone  holds  the  keys  for  such  actions. 
Today  that  person  is  President  David  O. 
McKay. 

Associated  with  him  in  the  First 
Presidency  are  two  other  wise  and  good 
men.  Together  they  constitute  the  "three 
great  Presiding  High  Priests."  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith  made  this  plain  in  a 
talk  from  this  pulpit  near  the  turn  of 
the  century,  when  he  declared:  "God 
has  established  all  things  in  their  order. 
The  house  of  God  is  a  house  of  order, 
and  not  a  house  of  confusion.  In  this 
house  God  himself  is  the  Supreme  Head, 
and  he  must  be  obeyed.  Christ  is  in  the 
image  and  likeness  of  his  Being,  his 
Only  Begotten  Son,  and  he  stands  as 
our  Savior  and  our  God.  .  .  .  Next  unto 
God  and  Christ,  on  the  earth  is  placed 
one  unto  whom  the  keys  and  authority 
of  the  Holy  Priesthood  are  conferred, 
and  to  whom  the  right  of  Presidency  is 
given.  He  is  God's  mouthpiece  to  his 
people  in  all  things  pertaining  to  the 
building  up  of  Zion,  and  to  the  spiritual 
and  temporal  salvation  of  the  Saints. . . . 
Those  who  have  entered  into  covenant 
to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
must  hearken  unto  the  voice  of  him  who 
is  placed  to  preside  over  them;  and 
secondarily,  to  those  who  are  called  to 


act  with  him  as  his  counselors  in  the 
Holy  Priesthood.  It  takes  this  Council 
of  three  to  constitute  the  presiding  and 
governing  authority  of  the  Priesthood  in 
the  earth." 

These  brethren,  together  with  the 
Quorum  of  the  Twelve  and  others  of 
our  Church  leaders,  are  blessed  with 
vision  and  foresight  far  beyond  normal 
powers  and  ability.  The  Lord  has  de- 
signed that  they  should  sit  in  the 
"driver's  seat,"  to  use  our  figure  of 
speech,  and  direct  the  affairs  of  the 
Church.  From  their  vantage  point  they 
can  clearly  see  the  road  ahead,  which 
way  to  turn,  how  to  avoid  the  rocks  and 
the  chuckholes,  much  better  than  those 
of  us  sitting  in  the  back  seat.  It  is  our 
duty,  responsibility,  and  privilege  to  up- 
hold and  sustain  them  with  our  words, 
our  actions,  and  our  prayers. 

How  best  can  we  do  this?  By  magni- 
fying them  in  the  eyes  of  our  families, 
our  friends,  associates,  neighbors,  and 
even  strangers,  and  allowing  no  evil 
speaking  of  the  Lord's  chosen  leaders. 
We  can  substitute  support  for  complaint, 
commendation  and  praise  for  adverse 
criticism.  We  can  pray  for  them  in 
public  and  in  private  and  in  our  family 
prayers,  teaching  our  children  to  pray 
for  them. 

It  is  my  sincere  desire  that  each  of  us 
will  become  "lifters"  instead  of  "lean- 
ers";  that  we  will  share  in  the  responsi- 
bility of  building  up  the  kingdom  of 
God  here  upon  the  earth,  and  not  shift 
it  all  to  the  shoulders  of  our  leaders. 
We  shall  then  never  become  "armchair 
generals,"  "sidewalk  superintendents,"  or 
"backseat  drivers,"  but  rather  "doers  of 
the  word  and  not  hearers  only." 

If  we  will  follow  the  counsel  and 
leadership  of  our  President  and  Prophet, 
we  shall  then  become  eligible  for  all  of 
the  blessings  promised  by  the  Lord  when 
he  said: 

"Wherefore,  meaning  the  church,  thou 
shalt  give  heed  unto  all  his  words  and 
commandments  which  he  shall  give  un- 
to you  as  he  receiveth  them,  walking  in 
all  holiness  before  me; 

"For  his  word  ye  shall  receive,  as  if 
from  mine  own  mouth,  in  all  patience 
and  faith. 

"For  by  doing  these  things  the  gates 
of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  you;  yea, 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  7 

and  the  Lord  God  will  disperse  the 
powers  of  darkness  from  before  you,  and 
cause  the  heavens  to  shake  for  your 
good,  and  his  name's  glory."  (D  &  C 
21:4-6.)  To  which  I  testify  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


first  Day 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve.  Our  next  speaker  will  be  Elder 
Marion  D.  Hanks  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy. 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  I  am  deeply 
grateful  this  morning  that  I  can  identify 
in  myself  at  least  one  virtue  commonly 
associated  with  those  who  shall  inherit 
the  kingdom.  I  love  to  hear  the  angels 
sing.  Thank  God  for  wonderful  Latter- 
day  Saint  mothers,  for  music,  for  har- 
mony, for  service,  for  leadership.  I 
rejoice  that  the  spirit  of  personal  convic- 
tion invoked  upon  us  by  President  Lewis, 
spoken  of  by  the  President  of  the 
Church,  prayed  for  earnestly  by  each 
of  us  in  our  own  closets,  may  be  enjoyed 
by  the  least  of  us,  as  well  as  by  those 
who  are  greatest  among  us.  I  pray  for 
that  spirit  as  I  express  my  personal  wit- 
ness this  morning. 

While  the  people  of  Israel  were  on 
the  plains  of  Moab,  in  the  last  part  of 
the  fortieth  year  of  the  Exodus,  shortly 
before  Moses  was  taken  from  them  and 
Joshua  led  them  over  Jordan  to  their 
promised  land,  Moses  delivered  a  series 
of  marvelous  discourses  to  the  people. 
He  reviewed  the  experiences  and  events 
of  the  past  forty  years  and  admonished 
and  exhorted  Israel  to  obey  and  appre- 
ciate and  keep  faith  with  Cod,  who  had 
preserved  them  as  a  people  through  their 
wanderings  in  the  wilderness  from  Sinai 
to  Jordan.  He  reminded  them  of  the 
magnificence  of  their  blessings  at  Sinai, 
repeated  for  them  the  Ten  Command- 
ments, and  said  to  them: 

"And  it  came  to  pass,  when  ye  heard 
the  voice  out  of  the  midst  of  the  dark- 
ness, (for  the  mountain  did  burn  with 
fire,)  that  ye  came  near  unto  me,  even 
all  the  heads  of  your  tribes,  and  your 
elders; 

"And  ye  said,  Behold,  the  Lord  our 
God  hath  shewed  us  his  glory  and  his 
greatness,  and  we  have  heard  his  voice 
out  of  the  midst  of  the  fire:  we  have  seen 
this  day  that  God  doth  talk  with  man, 
and  he  liveth."  (Deut.  5:23-24.) 


After  bearing  this  great  testimony,  the 
people  pledged  themselves  to  obedience 
and  to  loyalty.  They  said  to  Moses: 
"Go  thou  near,  and  hear  all  that  the 
Lord  our  God  shall  say:  and  speak  thou 
unto  us  all  that  the  Lord  our  God  shall 
speak  unto  thee;  and  we  will  hear  it, 
and  do  it." 

Moses  gave  moving  response:  "And 
the  Lord  heard  the  voice  of  your  words, 
when  ye  spake  unto  me;  and  the  Lord 
said  unto  me  I  have  heard  the  voice  of 
the  words  of  this  people,  which  they 
have  spoken  unto  thee:  they  have  well 
said  all  that  they  have  spoken. 

"O  that  there  were  such  an  heart  in 
them,  that  they  would  fear  me,  and  keep 
all  my  commandments  always,  that  it 
might  be  well  with  them,  and  with 
their  children  for  ever!"  (Ibid.,  5:27-29.) 

The  scripture  teaches  us  that  on  that 
occasion  Moses  "stood  between  the  Lord" 
and  the  people  to  show  them  "the  word 
of  the  Lord."  So  President  McKay  has 
this  day  stood  between  us  and  the  Lord 
to  show  us  His  word.  Our  hearts  have 
responded.  Surely  many  of  us  have 
covenanted  anew,  as  did  Israel  of  old: 
"Go  thou  near,  and  hear  all  that  the 
Lord  our  God  shall  say:  and  speak  thou 
unto  us  all  that  he  shall  speak  unto 
thee;  and  we  will  hear  it,  and  do  it." 
And  as  we  so  affirm  our  faith  and  sus- 
tain our  prophet,  is  there  an  echo  in 
your  heart  as  there  is  in  mine  of  the 
voice  of  the  Lord  to  Israel? 

"O  that  there  were  such  an  heart  in 
them,  that  they  would  fear  me,  and  keep 
all  my  commandments  always,  that  it 
might  be  well  with  them,  and  with  their 
children  for  ever!" 

The  Lord  wants  more  from  us  than 
these  moving  expressions  of  conviction 
and  covenant.  He  wants  more  than 
expressions  of  gratitude  and  testimony 
and  commitment.   He  wants  us  to  fear 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 


11 


him,  to  love  him,  to  keep  all  his  com- 
mandments always.  He  wants  our 
hearts. 

In  the  64th  section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  is  recorded:  ".  .  .  I,  the 
Lord,  .  .  .  require  the  hearts  of  the 
children  of  men."  (D&C  64:22.)  His 
promise  to  those  who  give  him  their 
hearts  is  certainly  the  same  as  it  was  to 
ancient  Israel — that  we  may  expect  his 
blessings  to  be  with  us  always,  and  with 
our  children. 

What  a  marvelous  promise!  What  a 
magnificent  and  moving  covenant  God 
has  made  with  us — worth  everything — 
worth  our  love,  our  obedience,  our  faith; 
worth  our  hearts. 

What  really  happens  when  Israel  gives 
God  its  heart?  What  happens  when  men 
honor  their  heritage  and  divine  possi- 
bilities, love  him  and  obey  his  com- 
mandments? There  were  certain  humble 
Nephites  not  many  decades  before  the 
advent  of  Christ  who  met  this  test,  who, 
in  the  midst  of  affliction  and  persecu- 
tion, followed  a  course  and  achieved  the 
objective.  I  read  from  Helaman,  the 
third  chapter,  these  moving  words:  ".  .  . 
they  did  fast  and  pray  oft,  and  did  wax 
stronger  and  stronger  in  their  humility, 
and  firmer  and  firmer  in  the  faith  of 
Christ,  unto  the  filling  their  souls  with 
joy  and  consolation,  yea,  even  to  the 
purifying  and  the  sanctification  of  their 
hearts,  which  sanctification  cometh  be- 
cause of  their  yielding  their  hearts  unto 
God."  (Helaman  3:35.) 

King  Benjamin,  in  concluding  his 
magnificent  sermon,  pursued  the  course 
God  has  set  out  for  his  prophets.  He 
instructed,  he  enjoined,  he  reaffirmed, 
he  testified,  and  he  promised.  He  said 
to  the  people:  ".  .  .  humble  yourselves 
even  in  the  depths  of  humility,  calling 
on  the  name  of  the  Lord  daily,  standing 
steadfastly  in  the  faith  of  that  which 
is  to  come,  .  .  ."  and  "if  ye  do  this  ye 
shall  always  rejoice,  and  be  filled  with 
the  love  of  God,  and  always  retain  a 
remission  of  your  sins;  and  ye  shall 
grow  in  the  knowledge  of  the  glory  of 
him  that  created  you,  or  in  the  knowl- 
edge of  that  which  is  just  and  true. 

"And  ye  will  not  have  a  mind  to  in- 
jure one  another,  but  to  live  peaceably, 
and  to  render  to  every  man  according 
to  that  which  is  his  due."  (Mosiah  4:11- 
13.) 


Remember  God's  promise  to  Israel? 
Note  this:  "And  ye  will  not  suffer  your 
children  that  they  go  hungry,  or  naked; 
neither  will  ye  suffer  that  they  transgress 
the  laws  of  God,  and  fight  and  quarrel 
one  with  another,  and  serve  the  devil, 
who  is  the  master  of  sin,  .  .  . 

"But  ye  will  teach  them  to  walk  in 
the  ways  of  truth  and  soberness;  ye  will 
teach  them  to  love  one  another,  and 
to  serve  one  another."  (Ibid.,  4:14-15.) 

So  have  come  the  marvelous  bless- 
ings and  promises  of  God.  In  1833,  in 
Kirtland,  after  a  great  outpouring  of  the 
Spirit  at  a  conference  held  there,  the 
Lord  gave  to  Joseph  Smith  a  revelation 
we  now  know  as  section  90.  In  it  he 
gave  some  further  counsel  relevant  to 
our  theme,  and  a  marvelous  promise. 
He  said:  "Search  diligently,  pray  always, 
and  be  believing,  and  all  things  shall 
work  together  for  your  good,  if  ye  walk 
uprightly  and  remember  the  covenant 
wherewith  ye  have  covenanted  one  with 
another."  (D&C  90:24.) 

Although  one  does  not  read  in  any 
one  verse  of  scripture  all  that  he  needs 
to  know,  and  although  there  is  no  simple 
formula  of  faith  that  is  any  one  verse 
to  the  exclusion  of  all  else,  for  God  has 
given  us  much  of  his  revelation,  yet  in 
this  verse  and  in  these  others  which 
reflect  the  promises  of  God,  there  seems 
to  me  to  be  the  kernel  of  the  conduct 
God  expects  of  us  if  we  are  to  achieve 
the  magnificent  promise  he  made  to  us. 
"Search  diligently,  pray  always,  be  be- 
lieving, walk  uprightly,  remember  your 
covenants." 

Now  I  am  not  one  to  judge  my  breth- 
ren of  the  priesthood  lightly.  I  know 
to  the  extent  my  intelligence  permits 
of  the  faith  in  you  and  the  devotion  in 
you  and  of  the  wonderful  service  you 
give.  I  therefore  speak  from  the  stand- 
point of  appreciation  when  I  say  that 
there  are  many  among  us  who  have  not 
invested  enough  of  themselves  in  the 
diligent  search  God  requires  of  those 
who  know  his  word  and  therefore,  living 
it,  achieve  his  marvelous  promises.  We 
must  search,  seek,  ask,  knock. 

Do  you  remember  the  word  of  the 
Lord  recorded  in  the  first  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants?  He  said  in 
this  marvelous  preface,  looking  to  the 
foundation  principles  of  the  gospel: 
"Search  these  commandments,  for  they 


12  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  October  7 

are  true  and  faithful,  and  the  prophecies 
and  promises  which  are  in  them  shall 
all  be  fulfilled."  (Ibid.,  1:37.) 

Nephi,  explaining  to  his  people  why 
he  quoted  so  freely  from  the  great 
prophet  Isaiah,  said  to  them  that  he 
quoted  Isaiah  to  ".  .  .  more  fully  per- 
suade them  to  believe  in  the  Lord  their 
Redeemer  .  .  ."  and  said  ".  .  .  for  I  did 
liken  all  scriptures  unto  us,  that  it 
might  be  for  our  profit  and  learning." 
Again,  he  told  them  to  hear  the  words 
of  the  prophet,  and  "liken  them  unto 
yourselves."  (1  Nephi  19:23-24.)  Surely 
this  is  one  of  the  greatest  values  of 
scripture — that  we  might  learn  them 
and  liken  them  unto  ourselves,  apply  the 
lessons  and  instructions  of  the  revela- 
tions to  our  own  lives.  How  can  we  do 
so  unless  we  search,  seek,  ask,  knock, 
invest  ourselves  earnestly,  diligently  in 
the  effort  to  acquire  and  organize  and 
share  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ? 

The  Lord  said  we  must  "pray  always." 
His  promises  are  wonderful.  He  has  told 
us  that  we  may  receive  the  Spirit  by 
the  prayer  of  faith;  that  we  must  "pray 
continually"  that  we  will  not  be  tempted 
beyond  what  we  can  bear;  that  we  must 
"counsel  with  the  Lord"  in  all  our 
doings,  night  and  day;  that  we  must 
"not  perform  anything  unto  the  Lord" 
without  praying  to  the  Father  in  the 
name  of  Christ.  His  marvelous  prom- 
ise is  that  "he  will  direct  us  for  good." 

We  are  taught  that  we  must  "be  be- 
lieving," for  all  things  are  possible  to 
him  who  can  believe.  I  talked  with  a 
group  of  young  people  about  the  Book 
of  Mormon  last  night  and  quoted  to 
them  words  of  the  great  Goethe,  who 
said:  "I  can  promise  to  be  sincere,  but 
not  impartial."  I  am  not  impartial  to- 
ward the  Book  of  Mormon.  We  cannot 
be  impartial  toward  the  gospel  and  the 
Lord.  If  we  are  to  get  faith,  we  must 
desire  faith  and  seek  faith.  We  must 
start  with  an  attitude  of  desiring  faith. 
We  must  "be  believing." 

This  also  the  Lord  said:  we  must  "walk 
uprightly."  Benjamin,  near  the  end 
of  his  great  sermon,  bore  his  testimony 
to  the  people,  reaffirmed  the  need  for 
faith,  repentance,  humility,  and  sincere 
prayer,  and  added:  ".  .  .  and  now,  if  you 
believe  all  these  things  see  that  ye  do 
them."  (Mosiah  4:10.)    As  Nephi  bore 


First  Day 

his  witness  to  the  people  near  the  end 
of  his  ministry,  he  delivered  a  great 
sermon  on  the  first  principles  of  the 
gospel,  and'  said:  ".  .  .  after  ye  have 
gotten  into  this  straight  and  narrow 
path,  ...  ye  must  press  forward  with  a 
steadfastness  in  Christ,  having  a  perfect 
brightness  of  hope,  and  a  love  of  God 
and  of  men  .  .  .  and  endure  to  the 
end,  .  .  ."  (2  Nephi  31:19-20.)  Amulek 
testified  of  Christ,  taught  the  first  princi- 
ples, admonished  the  people  to  pray,  and 
then  said:  ".  .  .  after  ye  have  done  all 
these  things,  if  ye  turn  away  the  needy, 
and  the  naked,  and  visit  not  the  sick  and 
afflicted  .  .  .  behold,  your  prayer  is 
vain,  and  availeth  you  nothing,  .  .  ." 
(Alma  34:28.) 

We  must  "walk  uprightly."  Within 
the  last  few  days  I  was  in  a  meeting  in 
an  eastern  city  talking  with  a  group  of 
people  about  youth  leadership.  During 
the  discussion  one  of  the  professional 
employees  of  the  Department  of  Agri- 
culture whose  civil  service  rating  is  not 
dependent  upon  who  is  Secretary  of 
Agriculture  said:  "We  don't  need  to 
interpret  human  fitness  to  our  depart- 
ment. We  don't  have  to  talk  about  it 
a  lot.  We  have  a  man  who  reflects  it 
impressively  in  his  own  life,  as  Secretary 
of  the  department." 

This  same  group  heard  our  story  of 
the  programs  of  the  Church,  of  the  prin- 
ciples upon  which  those  programs  are 
based,  and  of  those  who  lead  the  pro- 
grams. One  said:  "Yes,  but  your  situa- 
tion is  not  like  ours.  Out  there  you 
have  thousands  of  leaders."  Another 
person,  the  directing  head  of  one  of  the 
great  youth  programs  in  our  land,  said: 
"We  really  can't  talk  about  Utah  in 
the  same  context  with  the  rest  of  us. 
There  is  an  influence  in  Utah  not  like 
any  place  else  on  the  earth."  We  know 
what  the  influence  is  of  which  she 
spoke.  It  is  found  not  only  in  Utah  but 
in  every  place  where  faithful  members 
of  the  Church  live  the  gospel  and 
exemplify  its  principles. 

With  all  our  protestations,  sincere 
and  honorable,  with  all  our  expressions 
of  conviction  and  faith  and  testimony, 
there  is  required  of  us  that  we  develop 
in  us  the  heart  that  will  move  us  to 
obey  all  of  God's  commandments  always, 
with  the  promise  that  things  will  be  well 
with  us  and  with  our  children  always. 


ELDER  FRANK  H.  BROWN 


13 


The  last  suggestion  of  the  Lord  in  the 
verse  quoted  from  the  revelation  to  the 
Prophet  was  that  we  remember  our 
covenants.  We  have  covenanted  in 
sacred  places — at  the  waters  of  baptism, 
in  holy  houses,  as  we  partake  of  the 
Sacrament — not  alone  with  God  but 
with  each  other.  Consider  again  the 
moving  charge  that  Alma  gave  the  peo- 
ple at  the  waters  of  Mormon,  that  they 
were  to  ".  . .  bear  one  another's  burdens, 
.  .  .  mourn  with  those  that  mourn;  .  .  . 
comfort  those  that  stand  in  need  of  com- 
fort, .  .  .  and  to  stand  as  witnesses  of 
God  at  all  times  and  in  all  things  and 
in  all  places  .  .  .  even  unto  death,  .  .  ." 
(Mosiah  18:8-9.) 

God  help  us,  we  who  have  been 
blessed  with  so  much,  to  yield  our  hearts 
to  him,  for  while  men  look  at  the  out- 
ward appearance,  "God  looketh  upon 
the  heart."  That  we  may  claim  his 
promises  by  obeying  his  commandments, 
I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  addressed  us. 
The  Chorus  and  Congregation  will  now 
join  in  singing,  "Come,  O  Thou  King 
of  Kings,"  conducted  by  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen. 

After  the  singing,  we  should  like  to 
hear  a  few  words  from  President  Frank 
H.  Brown  of  the  East  Central  States 
Mission.  He  does  not  know  about  this, 
but  he  can  worry  about  it  while  we  are 
singing. 

The  Singing  Mothers  Chorus  and  the 
congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"Come,  O  Thou  King  of  Kings." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Frank  H.  Brown  of  the  East 
Central  States  Mission  will  now  address 
us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Harold 
B.  Lee  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  FRANK  H.  BROWN 

President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 


I  sincerely  pray  that  your  voices  have 
been  raised  to  our  Father  in  Heaven  in 
my  behalf. 

I  have  been  enjoying  the  past  ten 
months  with  my  lovely  wife,  in  presid- 
ing over  the  East  Central  States  Mission, 
in  the  states  of  Kentucky,  Tennessee, 
West  Virginia,  parts  of  Indiana,  Ohio, 
Maryland,  Mississippi  and  Illinois.  I 
bring  you  greetings  from  the  missionaries 
of  that  mission  to  you  lovely  parents 
and  express  to  you  their  love  and  their 
great  devotion  to  the  message  that  has 
been  entrusted  to  them.  Truly  they 
are  a  great  army  of  youth.  We  love 
them.  We  find  a  great  increased  devo- 
tion. The  spirituality  that  is  within 
their  bosoms  goes  out  to  the  people  who 
desire  to  know  the  truth. 

Many  people  have  been  brought  to 
the  waters  of  baptism  by  a  sweet  and 
humble  testimony.  We  have  encour- 
aged the  missionaries  to  teach  by  the 
spirit,  that  their  testimonies  bear  great 
emphasis  in  the  lives  of  people  with 
whom  they  come  in  contact. 

Just  before  leaving  to  come  here  at  the 


gracious  invitation  of  President  McKay, 
whom  I  dearly  love  and  revere,  and  I 
only  wish  that  momentarily  my  grand 
and  lovely  old  father  who  served  in 
a  mission  in  his  native  land,  back  in 
1903  and  1904  with  President  McKay 
as  a  humble  missionary,  leaving  my 
lovely  mother  and  seven  children  at 
home  in  Evanston,  Wyoming,  could  be 
here  just  for  this  moment,  because  I 
recall  very  vividly  as  a  young  man 
hearing  my  father,  after  President 
McKay  had  been  to  our  home  as  one  of 
the  Apostles,  say  to  myself  and  mem- 
bers of  our  family,  "I  want  to  give  you 
a  promise  that  someday  you  will  be 
able  to  uphold  the  hand  of  David  O. 
McKay  as  President  of  this  great  Church, 
and  no  matter  what  you  do,  always 
sustain  the  General  Authorities."  I  am 
happy  to  say  that  I  have  tried  to  do 
that  humbly. 

So  just  before  leaving  to  come  out 
here,  one  of  my  missionaries  called  me 
on  the  phone  and  said,  "President 
Brown,  what  should  we  do?  We  are 
up  here  in  the  smoke  holes  of  West 


14 

Friday,  October  7 

Virginia,  and  we  have  a  minister  and 
his  flock  of  forty-five  people  that  it  looks 
like  want  all  to  come  into  the 
Church.  What  shall  we  do?"  And  I 
said,  I  won't  use  his  name,  bless  his 
heart — I  said,  "Elder,  if  the  Spirit  gives 
utterance  to  you  that  those  45  people 
and  the  minister  want  to  come  into  the 
Church,  teach  them  the  Gospel  and 
baptize  them,  and  praise  God  for  lead- 
ing you  to  them." 

But  he  said,  "But  President,  he  wants 
to  give  the  Church  the  chapel."  I  said, 
"Let's  not  go  too  far  about  that,  let  us 
take  the  spiritual  first  and  we  will  talk 
about  that  which  we  worship  in  later." 

I  am  so  grateful  to  be  here.  It  is  not 
my  privilege  and  my  opportunity  to 
speak  longer.  I  just  want  to  bear  you 
my  testimony  that  I  know  that  God 
lives.  I  have  had  peace  come  to  my  soul 
and  I  could  not  dare  deny  the  truthful- 
ness of  the  Gospel.  I  know  it  with  every 
fiber  of  my  being. 

I  love  the  General  Authorities.  I  love 
the  remarks  of  President  Henry  D. 
Taylor.  I  had  the  rare  opportunity  of 
having  him  as  our  guest  to  tour  the  East 
Central  States  Mission,  and  what  a 
lovely,  gracious  couple  President  Henry 
D.  Taylor  and  his  lovely  wife  are. 
They  left  that  mission  field  I  know  en- 
dowed with  a  great  conviction  that  the 
Church  and  its  membership  had  a  great 
mission  to  perform  in  the  southlands. 
I  want  to  tell  President  Taylor  that  at 
this  time,  we  have  had  684  baptisms  in 
that  mission  thus  far  this  year,  reaching 
out  for  a  goal  set  by  President  M.  Ross 
Richards  and  his  lovely  wife,  whom  I 
respect  and  pay  a  great  tribute  for  the 
work  they  did  in  that  missionfield,  a  goal 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Dan 

of  a  thousand  lovely  people  to  come 
into  the  Church. 

We  hope  that  under  the  inspiration 
and  help  of  our  Father  in  Heaven,  that 
we  can  reach  that  mark.  When  Presi- 
dent Taylor  left,  he  said,  "You  will 
make  that,  and  more." 

I  am  happy  to  tell  you  that  last  month 
as  a  tribute  to  President  McKay,  the 
missionaries  set  a  goal  to  send  him  a 
baptism  for  every  year  he  was  old — or 
young,  President,  and  we  were  happy  to 
send  to  him  a  telegram  stating  that  we 
had  through  the  blessing  of  our  Father 
in  Heaven,  baptized  134  people  in  the 
East  Central  States  Mission  during  the 
month  of  August  as  a  tribute  to  our 
leader  and  our  Prophet. 

Again  I  leave  you  my  testimony,  plead- 
ing with  you  for  your  faith  and  your 
prayers  and  your  devotion,  thanking  you 
for  your  lovely  sons  and  daughters, 
whom  you  have  entrusted  to  Sister 
Brown  and  myself,  and  know  that  we 
appreciate  them,  we  love  them,  and  they 
are  great  individuals.  My  testimony  to 
you  again  is  that  the  Gospel  is  true,  1 
love  it  with  all  my  heart,  and  I  bear 
this  humbly  to  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  President 
Frank  H.  Brown  of  the  East  Central 
States  Mission.  He  is  one  of  the  group 
of  mission  presidents  attending  this 
Conference,  thirty  I  believe.  We  shall 
now  hear  from  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee,  who 
will  be  our  concluding  speaker,  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


In  these  next  few  moments  I  trust 
that  I  may,  in  the  testimony  which  I 
shall  bear,  catch  the  spirit  of  this  con- 
ference and  the  radiance  of  that  which 
has  been  reflected  by  our  great  leader, 
the  prophet  of  the  Living  God. 

One  of  the  gospel  writers  concludes 
his  record  with  this  significant  statement 
made  by  Jesus:  "Go  ye  into  all  the 
world,  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every 
creature  .  .  . 


"So  then  after  the  Lord  had  spoken 
unto  them,  he  was  received  up  into 
heaven,  and  sat  on  the  right  hand  of 
God. 

"And  they  went  forth,  and  preached 
every  where,  the  Lord  working  with 
them,  and  confirming  the  word  with 
signs  following."  (Mark  16:15,  19-20.) 

By  now,  apparently,  they  were  begin- 
ning to  understand  what  the  Lord  had 
said  to  them  on  another  occasion:  "Go 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


15 


ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  nations,  bap- 
tizing them  in  the  name  of  the  Father, 
and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost: 

"Teaching  them  to  observe  all  things 
whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you:  and, 
lo,  I  am  with  you  alway,  even  unto  the 
end  of  the  world."  (Matt.  28:19-20.) 

He  had  demonstrated  to  some  extent 
some  of  the  powers  of  the  Risen  Lord. 
What  they  became  because  of  this  di- 
vine gift  which  had  been  given  to  them 
is  described  by  Dr.  John  Lawrence  Mo- 
sheim  in  his  Outlines  of  Ecclesiastical 
History,  and  I  shall  read  only  a  few 
sentences  which  show  evidences  of  a  di- 
vine power  in  the  acts  of  the  early  dis- 
ciples which  attested  to  what  the  Master 
had  told  them,  that  he  would  be  with 
them,  "even  to  the  end  of  the  world." 
Says  Dr.  Mosheim: 

"For  no  sooner  had  the  apostles  re- 
ceived this  precious  gift,  this  celestial 
guide,  than  their  ignorance  was  turned 
into  light,  their  doubts  into  certainty, 
their  fears  into  a  firm  and  invincible 
fortitude,  and  their  former  backwardness 
into  an  ardent  and  inextinguishable  zeal, 
which  led  them  to  undertake  their  sa- 
cred office  with  the  utmost  intrepidity 
and  alacrity  of  mind.  This  marvelous 
event  was  attended  with  a  variety  of 
gifts.  .  .  .  And  indeed  there  were  un- 
doubted marks  of  a  celestial  power  per- 
petually attending  their  ministry.  There 
was,  in  their  very  language,  an  incredi- 
ble energy,  an  amazing  power  of  send- 
ing light  into  the  understanding,  and 
conviction  into  the  heart.  To  this  were 
added  the  commanding  influence  of 
stupendous  miracles,  the  foretelling  of 
future  events,  the  power  of  discerning 
the  secret  thoughts  and  intentions  of  the 
heart  .  .  .  and  all  this  accompanied 
with  lives  free  from  all  stain,  and 
adorned  with  the  constant  practice  of 
sublime  virtue.  Thus  were  the  messen- 
gers of  the  divine  Savior,  the  heralds  of 
his  spiritual  and  immortal  kingdom, 
furnished  for  their  glorious  work,  as  the 
unanimous  voice  of  ancient  history  so 
loudly  testifies.  .  .  ." 

Now  I  want  you  to  hold  this  last 
statement  of  Dr.  Mosheim's  in  your 
mind: 

"The  event  sufficiently  declares  this: 
for  without  these  remarkable  and 
extraordinary  circumstances,  no  rational 
account  can  be  given  of  the  rapid  propa- 


gation of  the  gospel  throughout  the 
world."  (Dr.  John  Lawrence  Mosheim, 
Outlines  of  Ecclesiastical  History,  Vol. 
1,  pp.  61,  67.) 

The  process  by  which  leaders  become 
spiritual  as  those  disciples  were  is  set 
forth  in  a  very  simple  admonition  of 
the  Master.  The  Savior  called  fisher- 
men, and  he  called  tax-collectors  and 
others  in  various  occupations  to  consti- 
tute his  chosen  twelve.  He  gave  to  each 
of  them  the  same  simple  promise: 

"Follow  me,  and  I  will  make  you 
fishers  of  men,"  or  as  another  writer 
puts  it,  "I  will  make  you  to  become 
fishers  of  men."  (Matt.  4:19;  Mark  1:17.) 

To  "come  after  him"  is  but  another 
way  of  saying,  "Keep  my  command- 
ments," for  thus  he  had  explained  it 
when  he  said  to  the  Nephites:  "There- 
fore, what  manner  of  men  ought  ye  to 
be?"  And  then  he  answered  his  own 
question,  "Verily  I  say  unto  you,  even 
as  I  am."  (3  Nephi,  27:27.) 

To  become  "fishers  of  men"  is  just 
another  way  of  saying  "become  leaders 
of  men."  So  in  today's  language  we 
would  say  to  those  who  are  so  to  teach: 
"If  you  will  keep  my  commandments, 
I  will  make  you  leaders  among  men." 

Those  who  are  outsiders  and  enemies 
of  the  Church  observed  these  unusual 
gifts  given  to  these  early  disciples.  You 
remember  the  Jews  marveled  at  the 
Master's  demonstration  of  his  power, 
and  they  asked:  "How  knoweth  this  man 
letters,  having  never  learned?"  To 
which  the  Master  humbly  replied,  "My 
doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his  that  sent 
me."  (John  7:15-16.) 

And  to  Peter,  the  Master  replied  after 
Peter  had  borne  his  testimony  as  to  the 
divinity  of  the  Master,  as  President  Mc- 
Kay has  quoted,  "Flesh  and  blood  hath 
not  revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father 
which  is  in  heaven."  When  Peter  and 
John  had  performed  marvelous  deeds, 
those  who  were  around  about  marveled 
because  they  "perceived  that  they  were 
unlearned  and  ignorant  men,  .  .  ."  (Acts 
4:13.) 

There  seems  to  have  been  a  constant 
vigil  lest  those  who  enjoyed  these  special 
God-given  gifts  would  arrogate  to  them- 
selves personal  superior  talents,  when  in 
reality  these  spiritual  endowments  were 
but  outward  evidences  of  divine  gifts 
given  among  men  who  are  called  to 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


16 

Friday,  October  7 

serve  in  high  places  in  the  kingdom  of 
God. 

Peter  chided  those,  you  remember,  af- 
ter he  had  performed  the  healing  upon 
the  man  who  was  lame  from  his  birth, 
when  he  said: 

"Ye  men  of  Israel,  why  marvel  ye  at 
this?  or  why  look  ye  so  earnestly  on  us, 
as  though  by  our  own  power  or  holiness 
we  had  made  this  man  to  walk? 

"The  God  of  Abraham,  and  of  Isaac, 
and  of  Jacob,  the  God  of  our  fathers, 
hath  glorified  his  Son  Jesus:  whom  ye 
delivered  up.  .  .  . 

"And  his  name  through  faith  in  his 
name  hath  made  this  man  strong,  whom 
ye  see  and  know:  yea,  the  faith  which 
is  by  him  hath  given  him  this  perfect 
soundness  in  the  presence  of  you  all." 
(Ibid.,  3:12-13,  16.) 

Recall  again  Peter's  rebuke  to  Simon, 
the  sorcerer,  who  wanted  to  buy  the 
gifts  of  the  Holy  Ghost  which  he  saw 
demonstrated  through  Peter: 

"But  Peter  said  unto  him,  Thy  money 
perish  with  thee,  because  thou  hast 
thought  that  the  gift  of  God  may  be 
purchased  with  money. 

"Thou  hast  neither  part  nor  lot  in 
this  matter:  for  thy  heart  is  not  right 
in  the  sight  of  God. 

"Repent  therefore  of  this  thy  wicked- 
ness, and  pray  God,  if  perhaps  the 
thought  of  thine  heart  may  be  forgiven 
thee."  (Ibid.,  8:20-22.) 

John  was  taught  in  plainness  how  he 
must  learn  to  distinguish  between  the 
person  who  demonstrates  spiritual  gifts 
and  the  giver  of  those  heavenly  gifts, 
even  God.  When  a  messenger  came  to 
him  he  fell  down  at  the  feet  of  this 
messenger  as  though  to  worship  him, 
and  the  messenger  said: 

"See  thou  do  it  not:  I  am  thy  fellow- 
servant,  and  of  thy  brethren  that  have 
a  testimony  of  Jesus:  worship  God:  for 
the  testimony  of  Jesus  is  the  spirit  of 
prophecy."  (Rev.  19:10.) 

And  Moses  learned  that  same  lesson 
after  he  had  received  the  wonderful 
visitation  from  the  Lord  who  had  ap- 
peared in  his  glory  as  contrasted  with 
the  visit  from  and  the  appearance  of 
Satan.  In  humility  he  said  thoughtfully, 
as  he  pondered  this  great  experience: 
"Now  for  this  cause  I  know  that  man 
is  nothing,  which  thing  I  never  had 
supposed."  (Moses  1:10.) 


First  Day 

In  our  day,  we  have  been  told  some 
similar  things  about  the  power  of  the 
Lord  among  his  peoples.  In  the  very 
first  revelation,  or  the  preface  to  the 
revelations,  the  Lord  said:  "For  I  am  no 
respecter  of  persons,  and  will  that  all 
men  shall  know  that  the  day  speedily 
cometh;  the  hour  is  not  yet,  but  is  nigh 
at  hand,  when  peace  shall  be  taken  from 
the  earth,  and  the  devil  shall  have 
power  over  his  own  dominion. 

"And  also  the  Lord  shall  have  power 
over  his  saints,  and  shall  reign  in  their 
midst,  and  shall  come  down  in  judg- 
ment upon  Idumea,  or  the  world."  (D  & 
C  1:35-36.) 

One  of  the  ways  by  which  "he  comes 
down  among  his  people"  is  clearly 
explained  in  the  revelation  in  which 
he  defines  certain  gifts  of  the  Spirit.  He 
enumerates  some  of  the  gifts  of  the 
Spirit  which  men  might  enjoy:  knowl- 
edge, and  faith,  and  discernment,  and 
the  gift  of  tongues,  and  the  testimony 
of  knowledge  that  Jesus  is  the  Son  of 
God,  and  then  he  says  this: 

".  .  .  unto  such  as  God  shall  appoint 
and  ordain  to  watch  over  the  church, 
...  are  to  have  it  given  unto  them  to 
discern  all  those  gifts.  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  46: 
27.) 

Previously  he  had  said:  ".  .  .  given 
for  the  benefit  of  those  who  love  me 
and  keep  all  my  commandments." 
(Ibid.,  9.) 

In  our  day  he  sounded  a  warning  just 
as  these  other  leaders  have  sounded  a 
warning,  when  he  said  to  those  to  whom 
these  gifts  are  committed: 

"And  in  nothing  doth  man  offend 
God,  or  against  none  is  his  wrath  kin- 
dled, save  those  who  confess  not  his 
hand  in  all  things,  and  obey  not  his 
commandments."  (Ibid.,  59:21.) 

Some  of  the  older  brethren  who  re- 
member the  days  of  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith  have  told  me  that  frequently 
when  President  Smith  was  introduced 
as  the  "head  of  the  Church,"  he  was 
always  quick  to  reply,  "Oh,  no.  I'm  but 
the  President  of  the  Church.  Jesus 
Christ  is  its  head." 

That  is  something  for  us  to  remem- 
ber. When  we  receive  the  adulation  of 
faithful  people,  we  must  never  forget 
that  such  commendations  come,  not  be- 
cause of  our  person,  but  because  of  the 
positions  we  hold.  In  conference  meet- 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


17 


ings  with  the  mission  presidents  we 
heard  this  repeated  with  variation  and, 
as  applied  to  the  Church,  it  might  be 
said  thus:  "There  is  no  end  to  the 
amount  of  good  we  can  do  in  this 
Church  if  we  are  not  concerned  about 
who  gets  the  credit  for  it." 

It  was  possibly  something  like  this 
which  the  Master  had  in  mind  when  he 
warned: 

"Woe  unto  you,  when  all  men  shall 
speak  well  of  you!  for  so  did  their 
fathers  to  the  false  prophets."  (Luke 
6:26.)  In  a  revelation  today,  we  have 
had  called  to  our  attention  the  human 
tendencies  which  are  in  most  men:  ". . . 
but  when  we  undertake  to  cover  our 
sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride,  our  vain 
ambition,  or  to  exercise  control  or  do- 
minion or  compulsion  upon  the  souls 
of  the  children  of  men,  in  any  degree 
of  unrighteousness,  behold,  the  heavens 
withdraw  themselves;  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  is  grieved;  and  when  it  is  with- 
drawn, Amen  to  the  priesthood  or  the 
authority  of  that  man.  .  .  . 

"We  have  learned  by  sad  experience 
that  it  is  the  nature  and  disposition  of 
almost  all  men,  as  soon  as  they  get  a 
little  authority,  as  they  suppose,  they 
will  immediately  begin  to  exercise  un- 
righteous dominion."  (D&C  121:37,  39.) 

And  he  has  told  us  two  reasons  why 
men  fail  to  receive  what  they  might 
otherwise  have  obtained: 

"Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much 
upon  the  things  of  this  world,  and  as- 
pire to  the  honors  of  men,  .  .  ."  (Verse 
35.) 

I  remember  at  a  stake  conference  some 
years  ago  a  young  man  was  called  to 
a  high  position.  When  we  had  asked 
him  to  express  himself,  expecting  a  hum- 
ble testimony  in  his  acceptance,  he  stood 
up  and  in  a  rather  flamboyant,  boastful 
way  gave  a  dramatic  performance.  At 
the  close  of  the  service  as  we  walked 
home,  one  of  the  high  council  whis- 
pered to  me  and  said,  calling  him  by 
name:  "When  he  stood  up  there  in  the 
pulpit  this  morning,  he  was  all  alone." 

That  is  what  the  young  missionary 
meant  who  said  he  had  baptized  a  num- 
ber of  people  but  all  of  them  had  apos- 
tatized, so  he  said,  "I  must  have  con- 
verted them  all  by  myself." 

I  remember  one  of  my  brethren,  who 
had  invited  me  to  join  him  in  an  ad- 


ministration to  a  sick  person,  who  said 
very  humbly  to  this  individual,  "Now, 
sister,  when  you  receive  the  blessing  of 
this  administration,  do  not  mention  the 
names  of  those  through  whom  the  bless- 
ings were  given." 

Today  we  are  witnessing  a  great,  mar- 
velous demonstration  of  the  power  of 
conversion.  Perhaps  we  are  going  to  see 
the  most  rapid  propagation  of  the  gospel 
in  the  world  than  we  have  seen  in  any 
previous  dispensation.  We  must  make 
certain  that  we  do  not  offend  God  by  our 
failure  to  confess  his  hand  in  all  things. 
We  must  not  forget  that  it  is  not  by  the 
will  of  men,  but  is  evidence,  as  in  the 
days  of  the  disciples  of  old,  that  God 
is  working  with  men.  It  is  the  only 
explanation  we  can  give. 

The  suggested  missionary  procedures 
we  have  provide  excellent  guides  to 
improved  study  and  presentation  of  the 
gospel  lessons  by  missionaries.  Sales- 
manship methods  of  themselves  alone 
as  applied  to  the  teaching  of  the  gospel 
will  convince  the  mind  but  do  not  con- 
vert the  heart.  Conversion  is  a  spiritual 
process.  Paul  taught,  ".  .  .  faith  com- 
eth  by  hearing,  and  hearing  by  the 
word  of  God.  .  .  .  How  then  shall 
they  call  on  him  in  whom  they  have 
not  believed?  and  how  shall  they  be- 
lieve in  him  of  whom  they  have  not 
heard?  and  how  shall  they  hear  with- 
out a  preacher?  and  how  shall  they 
preach,  except  they  be  sent?"  (Romans 
10:17,  14-15.) 

And  the  Apostle  Paul  also  said: 

"I  have  planted,  Apollos  watered;  but 
God  gave  the  increase,"  and  then  he 
added  in  language  that  sounded  like 
that  statement  of  Moses  after  God  had 
conversed  with  him:  "So  then  neither 
is  he  that  planteth  any  thing,  neither  he 
that  watereth;  but  God  that  giveth  the 
increase."  (I  Cor.  3:6-7.) 

Modern  servants  of  God  may  go  forth 
if  and  when  they  are  constantly  aware 
of  their  own  nothingness  and  place  their 
dependence  solely  upon  the  power  of 
Almighty  God;  for  as  the  Apostle  Paul 
wrote  to  the  Romans:  "If  God  be  for 
us,  who  can  be  against  us?"  (Rom.  8: 
31.) 

My  prayer  is  that  we  may  do  our  part 
that  we  shall  qualify  to  ever  have  him 
for  us,  and  with  us,  and  that  we  may 
constantly  lose  ourselves  in  unselfish 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  7 

devotion  to  his  cause  and  thus  find  ever- 
lasting life,  which  I  pray  humbly,  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve,  has  just  addressed  us. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  favor  us  with  "The  23rd  Psalm 
(God  Is  My  Shepherd),"  conducted  by 
Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen.  The 
benediction  will  be  offered  by  Elder  L. 
Lloyd  Prestwich,  president  of  the 
Redondo  Stake,  after  which  this  Con- 
ference will  stand  adjourned  until  two 
o'clock  this  afternoon. 


First  Day 

As  stated  at  the  opening  of  this  meet- 
ing, the  music  of  this  session  is  furnished 
by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
from  the  Ogden  and  Northern  Utah 
Regions.  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  has 
been  at  the  organ.  The  Singing  Mothers 
will  be  with  us  this  afternoon. 


Selection  by  the  Relief  Society  Sing- 
ing Mothers,  "The  23rd  Psalm"  (God 
Is  My  Shepherd). 

President  L.  Lloyd  Prestwich  of  the 
Redondo  Stake  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  second  session  of  the  Conference 
convened  at  2:00  p.m.,  Friday,  October  7, 
with  President  David  O.  McKay  pre- 
siding and  conducting  the  services. 

The  musical  numbers  for  this  ses- 
sion were  furnished  by  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers  from  the  Ogden  and 
Northern  Utah  Regions,  with  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen  conducting.  Roy  W. 
Darley,  Assistant  Tabernacle  Organist, 
was  at  the  organ  console. 

President  McKay  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City  in  the  second  session 
of  the  130th  Semi-Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church.  This  session  of  the  Con- 
ference, as  the  one  this  morning,  will 
be  broadcast  as  a  public  service  over 
television  and  radio  stations  throughout 
the  West.  The  names  of  these  stations 
have  already  been  announced  to  the 
television  and  radio  audiences.  Again 
we  express  appreciation  for  the  coopera- 
tion of  the  managers  of  these  stations  and 
their  willing  and  commendable  services. 
These  services  are  also  being  broadcast 


in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall 
by  television. 

We  are  pleased  again  this  afternoon 
by  the  presence  of  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers  from  the  Ogden  and 
Northern  Utah  Regions  under  the  able 
leadership  of  Sister  Florence  Jepperson 
Madsen,  and  Roy  M.  Darley  is  at  the 
organ.  We  shall  begin  these  services 
by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
rendering  "How  Lovely  Is  Thy  Dwell- 
ing Place." 

The  invocation  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Wayne  C.  Player,  president  of 
the  Taylorsville  Stake. 


Singing  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers,  "How  Lovely  Is  Thy  Dwelling 
Place." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Wayne  C.  Player,  president  of  the  Tay- 
lorsville Stake. 

s 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  just  offered  by 
Elder  Wayne  C.  Player,  president  of 
the  Taylorsville  Stake.  The  Singing 
Mothers  will  now  favor  us  with  "Jesus, 
Our  Lord,  We  Adore  Thee,"  conducted 
by  Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen, 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


19 


following  which  we  shall  hear  from 
President  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the  First 
Presidency. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
sang  the  anthem,  "Jesus,  Our  Lord,  We 
Adore  Thee." 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  first  speaker  this  afternoon  will 
be  President  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the 
First  Presidency.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy. 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


President  Clark  called  during  the  noon 
recess  and  wanted  you  all  to  know  how 
much  he  appreciated  the  inspired  mes- 
sage of  President  McKay  delivered  at 
the  beginning  of  the  morning  session, 
and  how  much  he  regretted  not  being 
present  with  us  here  today.  He  wanted 
me  to  extend  his  greeting  to  you  all,  and 
I  am  sure  that  he  would  appreciate  our 
united  faith  and  prayers  in  his  behalf 
that  he  might  yet  meet  with  us  before 
the  conference  is  over,  in  keeping  with 
his  innermost  desires. 

It  is  a  great  privilege,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  be  with  you  this  afternoon  and 
to  have  this  wonderful  opportunity  of 
bearing  witness  to  the  truths  of  the  gos- 
pel. There  is  one  thing  in  the  world  to- 
day above  all  else  which  people  are 
seeking  after,  and  that  is  peace. 

The  fundamental  purpose  of  the  or- 
ganization of  the  Church  is  to  establish 
peace  upon  the  earth. 

President  McKay  recently  told  us  that, 
"peace  is  the  exemption  from  individual 
troubles,  from  family  brawls,  from  na- 
tional difficulties.  Peace  does  not  come 
to  the  transgressor  of  law.  Peace  comes 
by  obedience  to  law — peace  to  the  indi- 
vidual that  he  may  be  at  peace  with 
God,  at  peace  in  the  home,  and  in  the 
neighborhood.  The  spirit  of  the  world 
is  antagonistic  to  the  establishment  of 
peace.  The  law  of  nature  seems  to  be 
the  survival  of  the  fittest  at  all  costs. 
But  peace  can  come  into  the  world  only 
through  obedience  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ."  Seek  first  the  kingdom  of  God 
and  his  righteousness.  His  teaching  re- 
garding arbitration  as  a  means  of  set- 
tling difficulties,  if  applied  by  nations, 
would  do  away  witb  war. 

"The  gospel  is  a  complete  way  of  life, 
and  the  true  plan  of  life  brings  joy  and 
peace,"  says  President  McKay.  Funda- 


mental to  the  doctrines  of  the  Church 
is  the  declaration  of  Father  Lehi: 

"Adam  fell  that  men  might  be;  and 
men  are,  that  they  might  have  joy." 
(2  Nephi  2:25.) 

The  present  teachings  of  our  President 
are  not  the  development  of  a  philosophy 
by  the  wisdom  of  men  that  changes  with 
time  and  experience.  They  do  not  result 
from  the  trial  and  error  of  improvement. 
They  are  not  discovered  as  the  result  of 
laboratory  experiments  on  the  one  hand 
or  study  of  the  past,  present,  or  future 
on  the  other  hand.  They  are  eternal 
truths  taught  to  the  children  of  men  by 
the  prophets  of  God,  ancient  and  mod- 
ern. The  truths  of  the  gospel  are  un- 
changeable. They  are  infallible.  The 
Savior  of  mankind — our  Redeemer,  the 
Son  of  the  Living  God,  the  Lord  of  lords 
and  King  of  kings,  who  rules  and  reigns 
over  this  universe,  brought  peace  to  this 
earth  as  he  dwelt  among  the  children 
of  men  in  the  flesh.  He  is  the  man  of 
peace.  He  came  with  a  promise:  "Bles- 
sed are  the  peacemakers;  for  they  shall 
be  called  the  children  of  God."  (Matt. 
5:9.) 

Except  with  peace  in  our  hearts  we 
cannot  be  the  children  of  God.  This 
follows  just  as  certainly  as  do  all  the 
promises  given  us  by  our  Master  in  his 
Sermon  on  the  Mount.  Surely  we  can- 
not expect  to  see  God  if  we  are  not  pure 
in  heart.  We  bear  witness  to  the  world 
by  virtue  of  the  power  and  authority  of 
the  Holy  Priesthood  of  God  which  we 
bear  that  the  words  of  his  mouth  con- 
tained in  the  sacred  Beatitudes  were  not 
platitudes  or  trite  sayings  to  catch  the 
ear  of  man,  spoken  by  a  humanitarian, 
but  on  the  contrary,  they  are  the 
words  of  God  spoken  by  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ,  upon  which  all  the  children  of 
men  can  place  their  trust  unfalteringly 


20 

Friday,  October  7 

and  conform  their  lives,  their  thoughts 
and  actions,  to  merit  in  this  life  and  in 
the  life  to  come  all  the  blessings  prom- 
ised those  who  are  faithful  and  obedient 
to  his  teachings — not  only  the  Sermon 
on  the  Mount,  but  all  that  he  taught 
during  his  ministry  here  upon  this  earth 
as  he  sojourned  among  men,  and  all  that 
he  has  revealed  to  his  prophets  to  the 
present  time. 

John,  in  his  Gospel,  says:  "These 
things  I  have  spoken  unto  you,"  [quot- 
ing the  Savior]  "that  in  me  ye  might 
have  peace.  In  the  world  ye  shall  have 
tribulation:  but  be  of  good  cheer;  I  have 
overcome  the  world."  (John  16:33.) 

Paul  said:  ".  .  .  let  the  peace  of  God 
rule  in  your  hearts.  .  .  ."  (Col.  3:15.) 

Unfortunately,  many  in  the  world, 
both  individuals  and  nations,  will  ig- 
nore the  teachings  of  Christ  and  deny 
his  divinity.  With  two  powers  upon 
earth  exerting  their  influence  upon  man- 
kind this  result  is  inevitable.  They, 
through  their  own  conduct,  their  own 
choice,  do  not  qualify  for  the  enjoyment 
of  peace,  and  peace  will  not  be  theirs. 
The  history  of  the  world  has  already  al- 
together too  clearly  demonstrated  that 
the  farther  we  depart  from  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  the  greater  is  the  distress 
and  tribulation  under  which  we  live. 

Should  those  who  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God  have  any  fear  for  their 
own  security  and  happiness?  This  is  an 
interesting  question,  and  this  again  has 
been  answered  so  often  in  the  recent 
ministry  of  President  David  O.  McKay. 
He  assures  us  that  we  need  have  no 
worry.  We  will  never  be  left  in  the 
dark,  and  we  should  have  no  concern 
other  than  to  follow  the  leadership  God 
has  given  us  here  upon  the  earth. 

We  are  the  children  of  promise  as  long 
as  we  keep  the  commandments  of  God. 
I  have  no  doubt  it  will  take  continuous 
effort,  however,  upon  our  part.  These 
are  not  blessings  which  will  flow  to  us 
automatically  merely  because  we  ask  for 
them.  We  will  be  justified,  however,  if 
we  follow  all  that  God  reveals  through 
his  servants,  the  prophets.  We  have 
been  given  direction,  sometimes  thought 
of  as  temporal  in  its  nature,  such  as 
tithing,  fast  offerings,  the  welfare  pro- 
gram, the  Word  of  Wisdom,  chastity, 
obedience  to  the  law  of  the  land,  and 
Others,  Whatever  their  temporal  aspect 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

may  be,  they  are  given  to  us  to  build 
us  up  spiritually.  We  can  draw  no  hard 
and  fast  line  between  temporal  and 
spiritual.  All  that  is  good  is  spiritual. 

So  we  can  well  afford  to  ask  ourselves 
the  question:  Can  we  expect  the  bless- 
ings of  peace  if  we  ignore  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  for  example?  Will  we  be  pre- 
pared to  take  advantage  of  the  ways 
and  means  our  Father  in  heaven  may 
make  available  for  us  to  retain  our  peace 
in  times  of  great  emergency,  indeed  at 
all  times,  if  we  are  not  physically  fit? 
I  have  no  doubt  God  will  require  us  to 
be  sound  in  mind  and  body  to  carry 
on  the  work  of  his  priesthood  at  home 
and  abroad,  at  least  as  far  as  we  by 
our  own  efforts  can  retain  our  bodily 
and  spiritual  health  and  strength.  We 
cannot  be  justified  in  destroying  our- 
selves through  our  disobedience,  no  mat- 
ter how  limited  our  conduct  in  this  di- 
rection may  be. 

It  is  an  inspiration  to  me,  and  I  hope 
it  will  be  to  you,  to  reflect  for  a  mo- 
ment upon  the  teachings  we  have  re- 
ceived through  our  inspired  prophets  in 
these  latter  days.  Though  times  have 
changed,  and  conditions  in  the  world 
are  different,  neither  the  hearts  of  men 
nor  the  revelations  of  God  to  his  people 
through  his  prophets  have  changed.  We 
read  in  the  Holy  Bible: 

"Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  nothing, 
but  he  revealeth  his  secret  unto  his  serv- 
ants the  prophets."  (Amos  3:7.) 

I  know  by  the  testimony  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  that  is  in  me  that  this  declaration 
of  Amos  is  literally  true  in  the  ministry 
of  President  David  O.  McKay  as  it  was 
in  the  life  of  Joseph  Smith  and  those 
who  followed  the  first  Prophet  in  these 
latter-days  in  this  high  and  holy  office. 
"It  is  out  of  the  abundance  of  the  heart 
that  man  speaketh,"  said  Brigham 
Young,  "and  the  man  who  tells  you 
words  of  life  is  the  man  who  can  save 
you." 

What  Joseph  Smith  said  in  1844  in 
principle  is  largely  applicable  today, 
although  our  problems  are  somewhat 
different  and  the  remedy  prescribed 
unique  to  the  solution  of  the  specific 
problem  that  then  confronted  the  na- 
tion. The  nation  did  not  accept  his 
solution,  which  was  inspired  of  God. 
Had  his  direction  been  given  to  the 
problem,  we  all  know  what  the  result 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


21 


would  have  been — no  bloodshed.  Both 
the  Civil  War  and  its  aftermath,  with 
us  even  now,  and  the  economic  loss  of 
both  would  have  been  avoided.  What 
happened  to  those  who  followed  his 
leadership  and  direction?  Even  though 
the  Prophet  Joseph  was  martyred,  two 
months  after  this  solution  to  our  nation- 
al ills  was  publicly  given,  the  Saints 
were  driven  from  their  peaceful  homes 
in  the  states  to  a  haven  of  safety  in  the 
fastness  of  this  mountain  region.  That 
is  where  they  were  when  the  Civil  War 
began. 

Certainly  God  works  in  a  mysterious 
way,  his  wonders  to  perform.  Who 
would  have  ever  thought  among  the  in- 
habitants of  Nauvoo  in  the  days  of  the 
final  persecution  that  they  were  being 
driven  from  their  homes  by  their  ene- 
mies against  their  will  and  against  their 
better  judgment,  only  to  wake  up  one 
day  and  find  that  the  Lord  had  pre- 
served them  in  a  land  of  peace,  even  in 
the  midst  of  the  greatest  of  all  civil 
wars.  Who  doubts  that  the  Lord  can 
do  what  he  pleases  with  his  people  to- 
day? 

I  have  implicit  faith  in  the  words  of 
the  Prophet  when  he  tells  us  today  that 
all  we  need  to  worry  about  is  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  God,  and  peace 
will  be  ours.  We  do  not  know  when 
or  where  or  what  exactly  may  happen. 
It  is  therefore  foolish  and  impossible  to 
conjecture  on  the  nature  of  the  relief 
or  protection  or  security  designed  for  the 
future  accomplishment  of  God's  purpose. 

This,  however,  we  do  know:  that  God 
lives  and  in  him  we  can  trust,  and 
through  our  obedience  are  now  free  from 
fear  or  doubt  or  insecurity,  and  shall  re- 
main so  always,  as  long  as  we  retain 
the  right  through  our  faithfulness  to  call 
upon  him  for  the  blessings  which  he 
has  promised  the  faithful. 

I  conceive  of  peace  as  something 
which  we  might  all  enjoy,  even  in 
the  midst  of  future  wars.  We  may 
suffer  trials  and  tribulations.  We 
may  suffer  from  the  loss  of  our  loved 
ones,  but  let  us  stop  for  a  moment  and 
call  just  two  instances  to  mind.  I  think 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  that  night  after  he 
had  left  Nauvoo  with  some  of  his  close 
brethren  and  crossed  over  to  the  other 
side  of  the  river  to  Montrose,  and  there 
the  question  was  should  he  go  on,  or 


should  he  go  back?  It  was  during  these 
days  that  the  Prophet  said  that  he  was 
devoid  of  offense  toward  any  man,  and 
that  he  would  be  taken  as  a  lamb  to 
the  slaughter,  but  does  anybody  have 
any  doubt  in  his  mind  but  that  the 
peace  of  God  was  in  his  heart  and  in 
his  soul  and  gave  him  the  strength  and 
the  courage  and  the  power  of  his  priest- 
hood to  fulfil  his  mission  here  upon  the 
earth  as  God  might  decree? 

The  other  great  example,  of  course, 
supersedes  all  else  in  human  knowledge 
and  understanding,  and  that  is  the  in- 
tercessory prayer  of  the  Lord  and  Savior 
Jesus  Christ  as  he  prayed  to  his  Father 
in  heaven  in  the  Garden  of  Gethsemane. 
But  there  was  peace  in  his  heart  when 
he  said,  "Nevertheless,  Father,  thy  will, 
not  mine,  be  done."  (Luke  22:42.) 

Now  that  peace  can  come  into  our 
hearts,  no  matter  what  the  circumstances 
may  be,  and  no  matter  what  process 
or  what  circumstance  the  Lord  may  use 
to  bring  his  faithful  people  the  peace 
which  he  has  promised  them.  I  have 
an  abiding  conviction  that  if  that  peace 
is  given  to  us  and  we  are  called  upon 
to  lose  our  lives  or  the  lives  of  our  loved 
ones,  that  we  will  have  the  absolute 
assurance,  as  did  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
that  we  would  die  in  the  Lord,  and 
when  we  die  in  the  Lord  we  have  ful- 
filled the  will  of  the  Master  here  upon 
this  earth,  to  his  pleasure  and  to  his 
satisfaction,  and  more  can  be  gained  by 
none  of  us. 

No  greater  power  can  exist  upon  the 
earth  than  the  power  of  the  priesthood — 
a  gift  of  God  to  us — calling  upon  us  to 
exercise  our  power  as  elders  in  Israel  to 
bring  all  nations  which  permit  us  within 
their  borders  to  a  knowledge  of  the 
truth;  to  draw  out  those  nations,  not 
necessarily  physically,  but  into  these 
stakes  of  Zion  which  are  being  and  will 
continue  to  be  organized  in  the  various 
countries  of  the  world.  These  men  and 
women  through  their  faith,  conversion, 
and  their  faithfulness  will  join  with  us 
as  recipients  of  these  greatest  of  all  bless- 
ings which  the  Lord  has  in  store  for  his 
chosen  people.  So,  neither  they  nor  we 
need  to  worry  about  our  security  when 
we  know  that  our  welfare  will  be  taken 
care  of  directly  from  the  throne  of  God 
on  High. 


22  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  October  7 

I  first  quoted  from  President  David 
O.  McKay's  teachings  of  a  short  time 
ago,  and  now  I  want  to  just  quote  a 
word  or  two  from  the  other  Presidents 
of  the  Church  to  show  how  uniform 
the  Lord  has  revealed  his  will  to  his 
prophets  in  these  latter  days. 

Joseph  Smith  said: 

"Make  honor  the  standard  with  all 
men.  Be  sure  that  good  is  rendered 
for  evil  in  all  cases;  and  the  whole 
nation,  like  a  kingdom  of  kings  and 
priests,  will  rise  up  in  righteousness, 
and  be  respected  as  wise  and  worthy  on 
earth,  and  as  just  and  holy  for  heaven, 
by  Jehovah,  the  Author  of  perfec- 
tion. .  .  ." 

Brigham  Young  said:  "Great  peace 
have  they  who  love  the  law  of  the  Lord 
and  abide  in  his  commandments.  Our 
belief  will  bring  peace  to  all  men  and 
good  will  to  all  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth.  It  will  induce  all  who  sincerely 
follow  its  dictates  to  cultivate  righteous- 
ness and  peace;  to  live  peaceably  in  their 
families;  to  praise  the  Lord  morning 
and  evening;  to  pray  with  their  families, 
and  will  so  fill  them  with  the  spirit  of 
peace  that  they  will  never  condemn  or 
chasten  any  one  unless  it  is  well  de- 
served." (Brigham  Young,  Discourses, 
pp.  223,  449.) 

It  is  interesting  to  see  what  John 
Taylor  in  his  day  said:  "This  peace  is 
the  gift  of  God  alone,  and  it  can  be 
received  only  from  him  by  obedience 
to  his  laws.  If  any  man  wishes  to  intro- 
duce peace  into  his  family  or  among 
his  friends,  let  him  cultivate  it  in  his 
own  bosom;  for  sterling  peace  can  only 
be  had  according  to  the  legitimate  rule 
and  authority  of  heaven  and  obedience 
to  its  laws."  (John  Taylor — The  Gospel 
Kingdom,  page  319.) 

Wilford  Woodruff  said:  "Put  your 
trust  in  God  and  rely  on  his  promises, 
living  up  to  the  light  and  knowledge  you 
possess;  and  all  will  be  well  with  you 
whether  living  or  dying."  (Discourses 
of  Wilford  Woodruff,  p.  260.) 

President  Lorenzo  Snow,  from  a  docu- 
ment published  in  the  Deseret  News  of 
Jan.  1,  1901: 

"A  new  century  dawns  upon  the  world 
today.  The  hundred  years  just  com- 
pleted were  the  most  momentous  in  the 
history  of  man  upon  this  planet.  It 
would  be  impossible  to  make  even  a  brief 


First  Day 

summary  of  the  notable  events,  the 
marvelous  developments,  the  grand 
achievements,  and  the  beneficial  inven- 
tions and  discoveries,  which  mark  the 
progress  of  ten  decades  now  left  behind 
in  the  ceaseless  march  of  humanity. 
The  very  mention  of  the  nineteenth 
century  suggests  advancement,  improve- 
ment, liberty,  and  light.  Happy  are  we 
to  have  lived  amidst  its  wonders  and 
shared  in  the  richness  of  its  treasures  of 
intelligence. 

"The  lessons  of  the  past  century 
should  have  prepared  us  for  the  duties 
and  glories  of  the  opening  era.  It  ought 
to  be  the  age  of  peace,  of  greater  progress, 
of  the  universal  adoption  of  the  golden 
rule.  Barbarism  of  the  past  should  be 
buried.  War  with  its  horrors  should 
be  but  a  memory.  The  aim  of  nations 
should  be  fraternity  and  mutual  great- 
ness. The  welfare  of  humanity  should 
be  studied  instead  of  the  enrichment  of 
a  race  or  the  extension  of  an  empire. 
Awake,  ye  monarchs  of  the  earth  and 
rulers  among  nations  and  gaze  upon  the 
scene  on  which  the  early  rays  of  the 
rising  millennial  day  gild  the  morning 
of  the  twentieth  century! 

"The  power  is  in  your  hands  to  pave 
the  way  for  the  coming  of  the  King  of 
kings,  whose  dominion  will  be  over  all 
the  earth.  Disband  your  armies;  turn 
your  weapons  of  strife  into  implements 
of  industry;  take  the  yoke  from  the  necks 
of  the  people;  arbitrate  your  disputes; 
meet  in  royal  congress  and  plan  for 
union  instead  of  conquest,  for  the  ban- 
ishment of  poverty,  for  the  uplifting  of 
the  masses,  and  for  the  health,  wealth, 
enlightenment,  and  happiness  of  all 
tribes  and  peoples  and  nations.  Then 
shall  the  twentieth  century  be  to  you 
the  glory  of  your  lives  and  the  lustre  of 
your  crowns,  and  posterity  will  sing 
your  praises,  while  the  Eternal  One  shall 
place  you  on  high  among  the  mighty. . . . 

"In  the  eighty-seventh  year  of  my  age 
on  earth,  I  am  full  of  earnest  desire  for 
the  benefit  of  humanity.  I  wish  all  a 
Happy  New  Year.  .  .  .  May  justice 
triumph  and  corruption  be  stamped  out. 
And  may  virtue,  chastity,  and  honor  pre- 
vail, until  evil  shall  be  overcome  and 
the  earth  shall  be  cleansed  from  wicked- 
ness. Let  these  sentiments,  as  the  voice 
of  the  'Mormons'  in  the  mountains  of 
Utah,  go  forth  to  the  whole  world,  and 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


23 


let  all  people  know  that  our  wish  and 
our  mission  are  for  the  blessing  and 
salvation  of  the  entire  human  race. 

"May  the  twentieth  century  prove  the 
happiest,  as  it  will  be  the  grandest,  for 
all  the  ages  of  time,  and  may  God  be 
glorified  in  the  victory  that  is  coming 
over  sin,  sorrow,  misery,  and  death. 
Peace  be  unto  you  all." 

Joseph  F.  Smith  said:  "There  is  only 
one  thing  that  can  bring  peace  into  the 
world.  It  is  the  adoption  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  rightly  understood, 
obeyed  and  practiced  by  rulers  and 
people  alike."  (Joseph  F.  Smith,  Gospel 
Doctrine,  1928  ed.,  page  529.)  I  love 
such  words  of  scripture. 

And  President  Grant  said:  "This  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ  which  the  world 
says  is  a  delusion,  a  snare,  and  a  fraud, 
[yet]  to  each  and  every  man  who  goes 
out  to  proclaim  it,  and  who  lives  an 
upright  and  virtuous  life,  it  brings  peace, 
it  brings  joy,  it  brings  happiness  un- 
speakable." (Heber  J.  Grant,  Conference 
Report,  October  1911,  page  22.) 

At  the  October  conference  of  1921 
President  Grant  presented  a  "Peace 
Resolution,"  representing  the  Church  as 
favoring  world  peace,  and  invoking 
blessings  and  "divine  guidance  of  the 
International  Conference  of  the  Limita- 
tions of  Armaments,  that  the  cause  of 
Peace  may  be  thereby  enhanced,  and 
an  amelioration  of  the  burdens  of  man- 
kind secured." 

President  George  Albert  Smith  once 
prayed:  "And,  O  Father,  in  the  midst 
of  confusion  that  is  everywhere,  and 
uncertainty,  bless  us  in  America,  that  we 
may  repent  of  our  foolishness,  our  light- 
mindedness  and  our  wrongdoing,  realiz- 
ing as  we  should,  that  all  the  blessings 


that  are  worthwhile  come  to  us  only  as 
a  result  of  honoring  thee  and  keeping 
thy  commandments.  The  pathway  of 
righteousness  is  the  highway  of  peace 
and  happiness." 

And  then  finally,  to  end,  I  come  back 
to  where  I  began,  to  the  words  of  Presi- 
dent McKay:  "The  Need  of  Peace:  The 
greatest  need  of  this  old  world  today  is 
peace.  The  turbulent  storms  of  hate, 
enmity,  of  distrust,  and  of  sin  are 
threatening  to  wreck  humanity.  It  is 
time  for  men — true  men — to  dedicate 
their  lives  to  God,  and  to  cry  with  the 
spirit  and  power  of  the  Christ,  'Peace,  be 
still.'  Only  in  the  complete  surrender 
of  our  inner  life  may  we  rise  above  the 
selfish,  sordid  pull  of  nature.  We  should 
seek  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his 
righteousness.  What  the  spirit  is  to  the 
body,  God  is  to  the  spirit.  As  the  body 
dies  when  the  spirit  leaves  it,  so  the 
spirit  dies  when  we  exclude  God  from  it. 
I  cannot  imagine  peace  in  a  world  from 
which  God  and  religion  are  banished." 

God  bless  us  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
we  may  follow  the  admonition  and 
counsel  of  these  great  leaders  who  have 
preceded  us  and  listen  intently  and  sin- 
cerely to  the  words  of  our  present  leader, 
that  our  lives  may  be  sweet  in  its  enjoy- 
ment, I  pray  humbly  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  Church  has  just  spoken 
to  us.  Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy  will  now  ad- 
dress us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


In  his  masterful  discourse  of  the  Ser- 
mon on  the  Mount,  Jesus  gave  a  vital 
commandment  which  has  been  ignored 
almost  universally  by  the  human  fam- 
ily. In  many  cases  where  it  has  not 
been  ignored,  it  has  been  broken  many 
times  by  most  people. 

I  believe  that  we  all  want  to  do  what 
is  right — live  near  to  the  Lord — and  so 
this  afternoon  I  would  like  to  say  a  few 


words  about  the  observance  of  this  com- 
mandment. 

"Judge  not,"  Jesus  commanded,  "that 
ye  be  not  judged."  And  then  he  gave 
this  warning: 

"For  with  what  judgment  ye  judge, 
ye  shall  be  judged:  and  with  what 
measure  ye  mete,  it  shall  be  measured 
to  you  again."  (Matthew  7:1-2.) 

Throughout  my  life  in  mingling  with 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


24 

Friday,  October  7 

many  people  of  various  religious  de- 
nominations I  have  observed  that  as  a 
rule  it  seems  as  if  human  beings  like  to 
gossip.  We  like  to  hear  unsavory  things 
about  our  neighbors  and  talk  about  each 
other.  It  seems  that  ofttimes  we  get  a 
certain  degree  of  satisfaction  or  even 
joy  out  of  saying  bad  things  about  other 
people.  We  thoughtlessly  and  some- 
times maliciously  judge  each  other.  We 
censure  our  associates  sometimes  unjust- 
ly, many  times  unkindly;  and  most  of 
the  time  we  speak  without  having  the 
evidence  to  back  up  what  we  are  say- 
ing. We  seem  to  forget  that  James,  the 
brother  of  the  Lord,  warned  that  the 
unbridled  tongue  is  "full  of  deadly  poi- 
son." (James  3:8.) 

I  know  that  even  sometimes  people 
who  are  faithful  in  the  Church  pass 
judgment  and  condemnation  on  those 
with  whom  they  associate  without  know- 
ing the  facts.  Such  is  displeasing  to 
God. 

I  know  that  many  people's  hearts  have 
been  broken  and  tears  have  been  shed 
because  of  the  unkind  and  perhaps  un- 
true things  that  have  been  said  about 
them  and  because  of  unjust  judgments 
that  we  give  of  each  other. 

As  I  look  into  the  faces  of  the  mem- 
bers of  this  congregation,  my  conscience 
certainly  tells  me  that  I  err  at  times. 
Sometimes  I  gossip  and  judge  others,  and 
when  I  do  it  I  act  unrighteously  before 
the  Lord.  My  heart  tells  me  I  would 
like  to  repent,  I  would  like  to  overcome 
my  weakness  of  gossiping  and  saying  bad 
things  about  other  people.  I  am  sure 
that  you  feel  the  same  as  I  do. 

But  one  might  say:  "The  man  or  the 
woman  from  whom  I  obtained  this  in- 
formation is  an  honest  man  or  woman 
and  would  not  lie." 

Certainly  honest  and  honorable  peo- 
ple would  not  lie,  but  we  should  re- 
member that  they  have  to  get  their 
information  through  human  senses  and 
that  human  senses  are  not  always  a 
hundred  percent  reliable;  for  example, 
if  an  honest  man  were  standing  on  a 
corner  and  another  one  on  the  opposite 
corner  and  two  cars  crashed  in  the 
street,  the  testimonies  of  these  two  men 
might  vary,  and  rightly  so.  They  saw 
the  accident  at  different  angles,  and 
perhaps  neither  of  them  saw  exactly 
what  happened. 


First  Day 

Recently  one  of  the  General  Authori- 
ties said  that  he  was  interested  at  stake 
conferences  to  hear  members  of  stake 
presidencies  in  the  Sunday  conference 
sessions  tell  some  of  the  things  that  he 
had  talked  about  the  night  before.  And 
then  the  General  Authority  said,  "Oft- 
times  I  cannot  recognize  that  I  had 
talked  on  the  subjects  nor  said  the  things 
that  I  was  reported  to  have  said." 

Now  certainly  the  General  Authority 
was  not  accusing  stake  presidencies  of 
being  dishonest.  I  think  he  did  not 
have  that  in  mind  at  all,  but  this  story 
illustrates  the  inadequacy  of  human 
senses. 

Sometimes  we  sit  in  a  congregation 
like  this  one  and  listen  to  somebody 
speak.  While  he  talks  we  think  many 
of  our  own  ideas  as  we  hear  many  of 
the  things  he  is  saying.  As  time  passes 
we  might  confuse  some  of  our  own 
thoughts  with  some  of  the  things  the 
speaker  said.  Because  of  the  inadequacy 
of  human  senses,  Jesus  Christ  said,  "in 
the  mouth  of  two  or  three  witnesses 
every  word  may  be  established." 
(Matt.  18:16.) 

The  Savior  and  the  holy  prophets  have 
told  us  how  to  judge  when  it  needs  be 
that  we  judge,  because  ofttimes  we  must 
judge.  In  fact,  many  of  you  in  this  tab- 
ernacle— stake  presidencies,  high  coun- 
selors, and  bishoprics — are  called  upon 
to  be  judges.  It  is  your  ecclesiastical 
responsibility  to  judge.  But  let  me  give 
the  warning  that  with  the  same  judg- 
ment that  you  judge,  you  shall  be  judged. 

The  Lord  and  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  understood  human  nature,  know- 
ing that  we  may  be  tempted  to  judge 
unjustly,  and  so  the  following  is  found 
in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

"We  have  learned  by  sad  experience 
that  it  is  the  nature  and  disposition  of 
almost  all  men,  as  soon  as  they  get  a 
little  authority,  as  they  suppose,  they 
will  immediately  begin  to  exercise  un- 
righteous dominion.  .  .  ." 

And  then  this  beautiful  admonition 
was  given  us: 

"No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought 
to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the  priest- 
hood only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffer- 
ing, by  gentleness  and  meekness,  and  by 
love  unfeigned; 

"By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge, 
which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


25 


without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile — " 
(D&C  121:39,  41-42.) 

As  I  have  traveled  throughout  the 
Church  and  have  observed  those  who 
have  been  called  and  set  apart  to  be 
judges,  it  is  my  testimony  that  they  have 
been  guided  in  most  cases  by  the  pure 
love  of  Jesus  Christ,  by  charity,  and  so 
they  have  rendered  righteous  judgment. 

As  I  have  suggested,  the  Savior  and 
the  prophets  have  told  us  how  to  treat 
each  other.  The  Master  gave  us  the 
vital  law  known  as  the  second  great 
commandment:  "Thou  shalt  love  thy 
neighbour  as  thyself."  (Mark  12:31.) 

If  all  of  us  would  love  our  neighbors — 
would  love  all  the  people  with  whom 
we  associate — as  much  as  we  love  our- 
selves, we  would  do  no  unkind  things 
to  them.  We  would  not  say  any  harsh 
or  unkind  words  to  them.  We  would 
not  repeat  any  bad  gossip  about  them. 
But  on  the  other  hand,  we  would  show 
forth  love  and  compassion  at  all  times. 
We  would  rejoice  in  their  successes,  and 
we  would  weep  with  them  in  their 
sorrows.  Under  those  conditions,  a 
glorious  spirit  of  brotherhood,  love,  and 
compassion  would  prevail. 

The  Savior  also  gave  us  the  famous 
Golden  Rule:  ".  . .  whatsoever  ye  would 
that  men  should  do  to  you,  do  ye  even 
so  to  them."  (Matt.  7:12.) 

Every  time  we  hear  something  about 
somebody  else,  if  we  would  stop  and 
think  before  we  repeated  what  we  heard 
and  take  as  our  measuring  rod  the  fol- 
lowing: "Would  I  like  to  have  somebody 
say  that  thing  about  me?  Is  it  just?  Is 
it  fair?  Would  it  make  the  person  in- 
volved happier  if  I  should  repeat  it? 
Would  it  make  him  progress?  Would  it 
add  to  the  beauty  and  the  joy  of  life?" 
And  if  it  will  not  meet  these  measure- 
ments, then  our  judgment  would  not  be 
righteous  if  we  should  repeat  what  we 
heard.  It  is  best  under  these  conditions 
that  we  keep  quiet. 

Paul,  the  apostle  to  the  Gentiles,  wrote 
a  beautiful  poem  on  faith,  hope,  and 
charity  to  the  Corinthian  Saints.  He 
said: 

"Though  I  speak  with  the  tongues 
of  men  and  of  angels,  and  have  not 
charity,  I  am  become  as  sounding  brass 
or  a  tinkling  cymbal. 

"And  though  I  have  the  gift  of 
prophecy,  and  understand  all  mysteries, 


and  all  knowledge;  and  though  I  have 
all  faith,  so  that  I  could  remove  moun- 
tains, and  have  not  charity,  I  am 
nothing.  .  .  ." 

And  then  Paul  ended  his  famous  poem 
by  saying: 

"And  now  abideth  faith,  hope,  charity, 
these  three;  but  the  greatest  of  these  is 
charity."  (1  Cor.  13:1-2,  13.) 

Charity  is  the  greatest  of  all  Christian 
virtues.  It  is,  as  the  prophets  have  said, 
the  pure  love  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  en- 
compasses all  the  virtues  that  I  have 
mentioned  and  even  many,  many  other 
Christian  virtues.  In  all  of  our  deal- 
ings with  each  other,  our  hearts  should 
be  filled  with  charity  toward  all  men. 
We  should  show  forth  an  abundance 
of  charity  toward  all  the  people  with 
whom  we  associate. 

Our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  not  only  taught 
that  we  should  love  our  friends,  but 
he  commanded  us  to  love  our  enemies. 
We  should  pray  for  them  who  despite- 
fully  use  us.  He  not  only  taught  these 
things,  but  he  lived  as  he  taught,  there- 
by marking  the  path  for  us  to  follow. 

While  the  Master  was  hanging  on  the 
cross,  suffering  the  most  excruciating 
pain  that  anybody  could  endure,  and 
while  he  was  listening  to  the  jeers  of 
the  rabble  down  at  the  foot  of  the  cross, 
his  heart  was  filled  with  compassion 
toward  them.  With  a  fulness  of  char- 
ity and  with  an  abundance  of  love  in 
his  heart  for  those  who  had  caused  him 
to  be  crucified,  he  cast  his  eyes  toward 
heaven  and  prayed, 

"Father,  forgive  them;  for  they  know 
not  what  they  do."  (Luke  23:34.) 

It  is  my  opinion  that  this  is  the  great- 
est example  in  history  of  pure  love,  of 
undefiled  charity,  of  actually  showing  a 
fulness  of  compassion  for  one's  enemies. 

Micah,  one  of  the  great  Old  Testament 
prophets,  pointed  out  the  way  for  us  to 
live.  He  said, 

"He  hath  shewed  thee,  O  man,  what 
is  good;  and  what  doth  the  Lord  re- 
quire of  thee,  but  to  do  justly,  and  to 
love  mercy,  and  walk  humbly  with  thy 
God."  (Micah  6:8.) 

In  humility  I  ask  our  Father  in  heaven 
to  pour  out  his  Spirit  upon  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  May  he  bless  you  and  me 
abundantly  that  we  will  be  filled  with 


26 

Friday,  October  7 

the  spirit  of  charity  and  love  for  each 
other.  May  we  overcome  our  evil  habit 
of  gossiping,  of  saying  unkind  and  un- 
savory things  about  each  other. 

On  the  other  hand,  may  we  say  noth- 
ing but  that  which  is  kind  and  generous 
about  all  people.  May  our  lives  be 
filled  with  patience,  brotherly  kindness, 
and  compassion  toward  each  other  at  all 
times  and  under  all  circumstances. 
Under  those  conditions  we  would  right- 
fully be  children  of  God  with  his  love  in 
our  hearts.  Then  our  lives  would  be 
actuated  by  godliness. 

Permit  me  to  suggest  that  we  hus- 
bands cease  criticizing  our  wives,  be- 
cause if  we  criticize  our  wives  it  weakens 
our  love  for  them.  Also,  it  tends  to  kill 
their  love  and  respect  for  us. 

I  would  give  the  following  admoni- 
tion to  wives:  Respect  your  husbands. 
Do  not  criticize  your  husbands.  If  you 
indulge  in  such  practices  it  results  in 
bringing  about  disunity,  kills  your 
spirituality,  and  tends  to  break  up  your 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


first  Day 

homes.  Perhaps  the  final  result  may 
be  the  loss  of  your  eternal  salvation. 

Let  each  of  us  walk  in  the  path  con- 
tinuously that  Jesus  marked  out,  having 
our  hearts  filled  with  charity  and  love 
toward  our  fellow  men.  May  we  keep 
all  of  God's  commandments,  walking  by 
every  word  that  proceedeth  forth  from 
his  mouth.  If  we  will  do  these  things, 
we  shall  have  an  abundance  of  joy  in 
this  life  and  eternal  life  in  the  presence 
of  our  Savior  after  we  have  completed 
our  missions  here  upon  this  earth. 

May  our  Heavenly  Father  bless  us 
that  we  shall  always  live  as  he  desires 
that  we  should  live,  I  humbly  pray,  in 
Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy.  Elder  William  J. 
Critchlow,  Jr.,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve, 
will  now  address  us. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  J.  CRITCHLOW,  JR. 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay,  my  brothers  and 
sisters: 

Where  could  you  find  sweeter  voices 
than  these  voices  from  Ogden  and 
Northern  Utah  which  have  sung  for  us 
this  day?  I  have  heard  them  before,  I 
hope  to  hear  them  again.  I  am  proud 
of  them. 

"All  the  world's  a  stage, 

And  all  the  men  and  women  merely 
players: 

They  have  their  exits  and  their  en- 
trances; 

And  one  man  in  his  time  plays  many 
parts." 

— Shakespeare, 

As  You  Like  It,  Act  II, 
Scene  7,  lines  139-142. 
Through  the  years  thousands  of  our 
young  men  and  women  and  many  old- 
sters, too,  have  been  called  to  play  he- 
roic roles  in  the  great  Drama  of  Life. 
I  have  enjoyed  these  past  two  years  the 
privilege  of  setting  apart  many  of  them, 
— missionaries  of  the  Church — sending 
them  forth  to  perform  on  the  stage  of 
life  with  a  blessing. 


The  Drama  of  Life  has  many  acts. 
Few  of  them,  however,  are  as  thrilling 
as  the  act  entitled  "A  Mission."  Let  me 
sketchily  review  for  you  a  few  scenes 
in  an  act  which  I  witnessed,  just  to 
show  how  exciting  this  "Mission  Act" 
can  really  be. 

The  opening  scene  was  called  "Miles 
Zero." 

In  the  missionary's  first  letter  to  his 
folks  he  wrote: 

"Dear  Dad:  I'm  up  at  Miles  Zero  on 
the  Alaskan  highway  in  Dawson  Creek 
where  it  is  costing  me  one  hundred  dol- 
lars a  week  for  board  and  room.  .  .  ." 

His  dad  replied  immediately,  "Dear 
Son:  Get  off  the  Alaskan  highway!  Park 
Avenue,  New  York,  should  be  cheaper. 
Miles  Zero  is  too  rich  for  my  blood." 

The  dad's  letter  and  another  letter 
from  the  son  crossed  in  the  mail.  The 
son's  letter  began: 

"Dear  Dad:  The  Lord  has  blessed  me 
already.  A  man  committed  suicide  in  his 
room.  It  was  so  ghastly  that  no  one 
would  rent  it.  I  offered  the  landlord 
forty  dollars  a  month.  He  took  me  up — 


ELDER  WILLIAM  ].  CRITCHLOW,  JR. 


27 


so  I  moved  in  with  my  companion  who 
is  sharing  the  forty  dollars.    All  my 
problems  are  solved." 
Months  passed. 

Then,  in  one  of  his  regular  letters,  the 
son  said,  "I  have  twenty-two  prospects 
about  ready  to  join  up,  but  no  place  to 
baptize  them.  Peace  River  will  be  frozen 
over  till  June,  and  before  then  I  shall 
be  due  for  a  transfer.  Wish  I  could  use 
a  bathtub.  They  have  some  large  tin 
ones  up  here.  .  .  ." 

Weeks  passed. 

In  another  letter  the  son  wrote: 
"Lucky  me.  The  Lord  has  blessed  me 
again.  Two  of  my  choice  prospects,  the 
banker  and  the  head  of  the  Masonic 
Lodge,  who  is  also  the  president  of  the 
Power  Board  went  six  hundred  miles 
down  to  Edmonton,  and  I  baptized  them. 
That's  two  down,  only  twenty  more  to 
go.  My  president  is  pleased.  He  is 
transferring  me  to  Bella  Coula,  wher- 
ever that  is.  Up  here,  there  are  two 
kinds  of  water — liquid  and  frozen,  also 
two  kinds  of  prospects — hot  and  cold. 
I'm  terribly  afraid  that  some  of  my 
twenty  remaining  prospects  will  'freeze 
up'  before  liquid  water  and  a  baptismal 
font  become  available.  I  shall  regret 
losing  them,  but  I'll  pick  twenty  up  in 
Bella  Coula.  Wish  me  luck." 

Five  years  after  the  curtain  fell  on  this 
son's  "Mission  Act,"  I  was  sent  to  a  con- 
ference in  Calgary,  Canada,  and  in  one 
of  the  sessions  of  the  conference  I  lis- 
tened to  the  stake  president  praise,  as 
he  released,  his  stake  mission  president 
who  had  baptized  twenty  converts  "right 
here  in  Calgary."  He  called  on  him  to 
speak.  I  copied  these  words  from  a  tape 
of  his  talk. 

"Seven  years  ago  one  Sunday  in  a 
converted  hut  at  Miles  Zero  on  the 
Alaskan  highway  I  met  a  young  man 
who  was  to  be  instrumental  in  changing 
the  course  of  my  life.  He  was  big,  six 
feet.  He  had  a  big  grin  and  hands  that 
were  always  moving.  You  could  tell  he 
had  the  spirit  of  the  gospel.  I  had  met 
many  men  before,  but  never  had  I  met 
a  man  who  could  teach  the  gospel  the 
way  this  man  did.  He  would  both  fast 
and  pray,  and  I  remember  that  one  time 
he  fasted  three  days  and  nights,  going 
without  food  and  water  and  praying  on 
behalf  of  the  people  he  was  teaching. 
He  taught  the  gospel  with  an  inspira- 


tion that  only  one  who  had  the  guid- 
ance of  his  Father  in  heaven  could 
bring.  He  baptized  me.  I  have  a  great 
love  for  that  young  man.  Elder  Critch- 
low,  take  back  to  your  son  a  confirma- 
tion of  the  love  we  have  for  him.  In 
a  way  to  pay  the  debt  tell  him  that 
many  here  within  the  sound  of  my 
voice,  whom  I  have  had  the  privilege 
of  teaching  have  come  into  the  kingdom 
of  God — through  your  son." 

Those  words  "through  your  son" 
were  ringing  pleasantly  in  my  ears — 
still  I  heard  the  president  who  leaned 
toward  me  to  whisper:  "He  (the  mission 
president)  baptized  twenty  people  here 
in  Calgary." 

Suddenly,  my  memory  was  flooded 
with  a  maze  of  words — words  which  my 
son  had  written  years  before.  Slowly, 
they  assembled  into  fragments  of  broken 
sentences:  "That's  two  down — twenty 
more  to  go — I'm  afraid  my  twenty  pros- 
pects will  freeze  up  before  liquid  water 

is  available.  ...  I  regret  losing  them  

I'll  pick  them  up  in  Bella  Coula — Wish 
me  luck." 

Well,  he  didn't  pick  them  up  in  Bella 
Coula. 

They  were  picked  up  in  Calgary  by 
one  of  the  "two  down"  who  picked  up 
the  "twenty  more  to  go" — "through 
your  son." 

Families  that  have  never  had  a  mis- 
sionary in  the  field  have  missed  one  of 
the  grandest  blessings  that  could  come 
into  their  homes.  Ask  the  mother  who 
impatiently  awaits  her  missionary  son's 
letters,  who  gleefully  reads  lines  in  them 
over  the  back  fence  to  neighbors  and 
over  the  phone  to  relatives  and  friends. 

Ask  the  proud  father,  the  brother,  or 
the  sister  about  the  sweet  feeling  they 
experience  when  they  kneel  together 
each  day  in  family  prayers  to  ask  a  bless- 
ing for  their  missionary.  Before  Bobby 
left  for  his  mission  the  family  skipped 
its  prayers  occasionally,  but  while  he 
was  in  the  field — so  far,  far  away  from 
home,  they  skipped  fewer  prayers  be- 
cause Bobby  might  need  the  protection 
and  the  help  of  a  loving  Heavenly 
Father.  Never  was  the  family  knit  more 
closely  together. 

Recently  I  told  a  stake  president  he 
needed  six  thousand  stake  missionaries. 
"Be  reasonable,"  he  said,  "I've  only  six 
thousand  members  in  my  stake." 


28  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  October  7 

"Right,  exactly  right,"  I  replied,  "and 
every  one  of  those  members  is  a  mis- 
sionary." 

Every  member  of  our  Church  is  a 
missionary.  Without  the  formality  of  a 
setting-apart  we  should  be  so  set-apart 
from  the  ways  of  the  world  that  we  can 
teach  the  gospel,  which  is  our  Father's 
way  of  life,  by  the  very  lives  we  live. 
Without  the  oral  word  of  mouth  preach- 
ing, the  example  of  our  living  will  al- 
ways be  effective  teaching.  A  sermon 
seen  is  better  than  a  sermon  heard. 

Example  has  more  followers  than  rea- 
son and  is  more  forcible  than  precept. 

Yes,  the  world's  a  stage; 

So  is  the  Church  a  stage; 

And  all  its  members  merely  players. . . 

They  have  their  exits  and  their  en- 
trances; 

And  each  member  in  his  time  is  ex- 
pected to  choose  and  play  a  noble  part. 

Come  up  here  with  me  on  this  stage 
of  life  and,  over  the  glare  of  the  foot- 
lights in  this  World  Theater  let's  take 
a  peek  at  the  audience  watching  us  play 
our  parts  in  the  great  Drama  of  Life. 

Down  there  in  the  parquet  whom  do 
you  see?  Over  the  glare  of  the  foot- 
lights I  quite  distinctly  see  my  wife,  my 
children,  my  neighbors,  my  friends 
across  the  town  and  across  the  country, 
my  vocational  associates,  my  associates 
in  the  Church  Offices.  All  who  know 
me,  be  it  ever  so  well  or  ever  so  slight, 
seem  to  be  in  this  World  Theater.  And 
they're  watching,  oh,  so  critically.  Yet 
if  I  play  my  role  well — the  role  of  a 
Latter-day  Saint — I'm  sure  there  will  be 
some  applause.  But  if  I  slip  out  of 
character — even  for  a  moment  or  so- 
some  of  them,  like  patrons  of  any  thea- 
ter, at  times,  might  sneer,  perhaps  hiss. 
These  translate  into  one  of  the  ugliest 
words  in  the  English  dictionary — "hypo- 
crite." 

May  our  merciful  Heavenly  Father 
help  me,  help  you  to  play  our  chosen 
roles  so  well  that  we  may  deserve  the 
plaudits  and  the  praise,  at  least  the  re- 
spect of  those  who  watch. 

Now  look  up  to  the  balcony  ...  the 
glare  of  the  footlights,  whom  do  you 
see  there?  On  the  very  first  row  I  see 
my  mother.  My  father  is  beside  her,  my 
brother  beside  him.  Behind  them,  I  be- 
lieve, my  grandparents.  One  man  among 
them  with  sideburns  and  a  lock  of 


First  Day 

curly  brown  hair  looks  like  a  picture 
Eve  seen  of  Captain  James  Brown  who 
led  the  sick  detachment  of  the  Mormon 
Battalion  into  Salt  Lake  Valley.  Lie's  my 
great-grandfather.  These  obviously  are 
the  dead.  I  can  almost  hear  them  say: 
"We  are  the  dead, 

Short  years  ago  we  lived,  felt  dawn, 

saw  Sunshine  glow.  .  .  . 
To  you  from  failing  hand  the  torch 

we  throw 
Be  yours  to  hold  it  high. 
If  ye  break  faith  with  us  who  die, 
We  shall  not  sleep." 
— adapted — "In  Flanders  Fields"  McCrea. 

I  don't  really  believe,  of  course,  that  my 
father  and  mother  and  my  grandparents 
are  peeking  through  the  veil,  observing 
every  scene  in  which  I  act,  but  some- 
times I  wonder.  Just  in  case,  I  had  bet- 
ter act,  I  ought  to  act,  yes,  I  want  to 
act  so  that  they  with  a  feeling  of  pride 
will  smile  and  applaud  my  scenes. 

I  love  my  parents  and  my  grand- 
parents. They  are  not  dead.  They  live. 
Sometimes  I  think  I  almost  hear,  or 
rather  feel,  their  prayers  for  me!  Surely 
they  must  be  praying  and  pulling  for 
me,  otherwise  I  would  not  have  been  so 
blessed.  Again,  I  ask  a  merciful  Father 
in  heaven  to  help  me  and  to  help  you 
to  play  our  scenes  so  well  that  we  may 
fittingly  deserve  applause  from  the  bal- 
cony of  the  dead. 

Look  again,  this  time  to  the  gallery. 
Over  the  glow  of  the  footlights  I  see 
faces  very  indistinctly.  I  recognize  none 
of  them.  These,  something  tells  me, 
are  the  spirits  yet  to  come  and  be  em- 
bodied on  this  earth;  they  who  must 
come  to  take  our  places.  I  wonder  if 
they  do  not  watch  with  interest  the 
Drama  of  Earth  Life,  and  if  they  are  not 
earnestly  praying  that  we  will  play  our 
roles  well,  for  they  must  come  to  dwell 
in  the  environment  we  are  creating  for 
them.  Once  upon  a  time  our  Heavenly 
Father's  children  on  this  earth  became 
so  wicked  that  he  washed  them  and 
their  wickedness  off  the  stage  with  a 
great  flood  so  that  these  spirits  might 
inherit  a  decent  environment.  This 
gallery  of  spirits  will  certainly  applaud 
if  we  play  our  parts  well. 

High  up  above  the  stage  in  this  World 
Theater  is  a  box.  Look  up.  The  glare 
of  the  overhead  floodlights  obscures  its 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


29 


occupant.  This  box  is  reserved  for  the 
Author  of  the  play — the  Drama  of  Life. 
He  not  only  is  the  Author,  he  is  also  the 
Critic  and  the  Judge.  How  glorious 
could  be  that  day  if  in  its  morning — 
the  morning  after  the  curtain  falls — his 
press  would  announce:  "Well  done, 
thou  good  and  faithful  servant." 

Yes,  the  world's  a  stage,  so  is  the 
Church  a  stage,  and  you  and  I  are 
merely  players.  We've  chosen  noble 
roles  in  the  Drama  of  Life.  Let's  play 
them  well. 

We  can  preach  a  better  sermon  with 
our  lives  than  with  our  lips.  We  can  do 
more  good  by  being  good  than  by 
preaching  good.  Let  us  so  act  that  our 
principle  of  action  shall  become  a  law, 
not  only  for  the  Church,  but  also  for 
the  whole  world.  Eventually  it  will  be. 
May  that  time  be  soon,  I  humbly  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr.,  As- 
sistant to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
has  just  concluded  speaking.  The  Re- 
lief Society  Singing  Mothers  and  Con- 
gregation will  now  join  in  singing, 
"How  Firm  A  Foundation."  Sister 
Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  will  lead  us 
in  the  singing,  after  which  Bishop  Joseph 
L.  Wirthlin  will  address  us. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
and  the  congregation  joined  in  singing 
the  hymn,  "How  Firm  A  Foundation." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  will  now  speak  to 
us,  and  he  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve. 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 


President  McKay,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  to  be  here  upon  this  occasion  is 
most  inspirational  to  me  as  I  am  sure 
it  is  to  you.  As  I  came  into  this  remark- 
able building,  the  events  that  took  place 
at  the  time  of  Brigham  Young  and  those 
who  were  with  him  came  to  my  mind. 

The  marvelous  revelation  that  was 
given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  on  Novem- 
ber 1,  1831,  is  one  that  all  of  us  can 
give  consideration  to,  particularly  at  this 
time  when  the  Lord  said  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph: 

"And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be 
unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my 
disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these 
last  days. 

"And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none 
shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have 
commanded  them."  (D&C  1:4-5.) 

This  revelation  calls  the  disciples  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  particularly 
the  apostles  in  this  day  as  well  as  in  the 
time  of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  to  go  into 
the  world  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every 
nation,  kindred,  tongue,  and  people. 
Under  their  direction  missionary  work 
is  being  done  in  the  world  today,  and  I 
am  sure  that  all  enjoy  divine  guidance 
as  they  meet  this  great  assignment. 


This  morning  President  McKay  told 
us  of  the  leadership  of  certain  individuals 
in  the  world  who,  if  they  had  their  way, 
would  destroy  our  knowledge  that  God 
lives  and  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son. 
I  am  sure  they  will  never  be  successful. 
The  Lord  in  his  way  will  handle  such 
individuals. 

Of  the  great  men  who  have  gone  in 
the  past,  I  think  particularly  of  Brigham 
Young  and  the  twelve  who  were  called 
to  preach  the  gospel  to  the  people  in 
Great  Britain.  They  were  poor  men. 
They  started  the  long  trip  to  England 
without  the  funds  to  pay  their  way. 
While  they  did  not  have  enough  of  this 
world's  goods,  they  knew  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  they 
were  willing  to  bear  testimony  to  the 
world  that  God  the  Father  and  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ  appeared  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph.  With  that  testimony  in  their 
souls,  they  accepted  that  great  assign- 
ment. 

At  the  time  Brigham  Young  left,  he 
was  a  very  sick  man.  He  said,  "I  could 
not  walk  thirty  rods  to  the  river."  His 
family,  too,  was  ill.  His  wife  had  just 
given  birth  to  another  babe,  and  she 
was  in  poor  health.   However,  Brigham 


30  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  October  7 

Young  and  his  companions  started  on 
their  journey.  When  they  reached 
New  York,  they  were  helped  by  the 
Saints  who  raised  sufficient  funds  where- 
by they  could  pay  the  amount  of 
eighteen  dollars  to  cross  the  Atlantic 
Ocean.  The  Saints  also  gave  them  food 
to  use  while  on  the  ship.  They  landed 
in  England  on  April  6,  1840,  taking  about 
a  month  to  arrive  there.  It  was  just  ten 
years  after  the  Church  had  been  organ- 
ized. The  Lord  had  sent  these  men  to 
England  for  the  purpose  of  again  mak- 
ing it  possible  for  the  English  people  to 
hear  the  gospel  and  organize  the  Church 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  They  arrived 
as  poor  men.  They  had  no  money.  The 
sisters  made  clothing  for  Brigham  Young 
as  his  was  worn  out.  Great  conferences 
were  held.  They  labored  in  and  around 
Manchester. 

Wilford  Woodruff  did  a  marvelous 
work.  He  was  preaching  in  the  little 
town  of  Handley,  and  there  he  found 
that  the  people  were  very  much  inter- 
ested in  what  he  was  telling  them  in 
bearing  testimony  that  God  lives  and 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son.  He  had 
direction  from  on  high,  indicating  that 
he  should  travel  to  the  south.  He  was 
not  quite  sure  as  to  the  instructions  he 
had  received.  So,  again  he  made  it  a 
matter  of  prayer.  The  Lord  made  it 
very  clear  to  him  that  he  should  travel 
to  the  south.  On  arriving  at  the  ap- 
pointed place,  he  came  in  contact  with 
some  people  who  were  very  friendly  to 
him  and  to  the  word  of  the  Lord  that 
he  was  preaching.  It  was  an  organiza- 
tion called  the  United  Brethren.  I  think 
we  are  all  familiar  with  the  history  of 
that  wonderful  group  of  people.  Six 
hundred  of  them  had  left  other  churches 
and  organized  a  church  of  their  own 
because  they  were  dissatisfied.  They 
heard  the  gospel  as  it  was  given  to  them 
by  an  apostle,  Brother  Woodruff.  They 
all  accepted  it  with  the  exception  of  one 
member.  Among  them  were  forty 
preachers  who  belonged  to  this  organ- 
ization, and  they,  too,  joined  the  Church, 
all  evidence  that  there  were  many  peo- 
ple in  Great  Britain  who  were  anxious 
to  hear  and  accept  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  as  it  was  given  to 
them  by  one  of  the  Lord's  apostles.  I 
am  sure  that  today  there  are  thousands 
of  people  in  that  great  country  who  want 


First  Day 

to  hear  the  gospel,  accept  it,  and  enjoy 
all  of  its  blessings. 

The  brethren  returned  in  1841,  after 
they  had  done  a  great  missionary  work 
in  Great  Britain.  Brigham  Young  made 
the  statement  that  during  the  period 
they  were  there  they  baptized  between 
seven  thousand  and  eight  thousand  peo- 
ple, and  that,  in  and  of  itself,  was  a  great 
achievement. 

As  I  said  in  the  beginning,  these  were 
poor  men.  The  Church  was  poor.  It 
had  no  funds,  but  yet  these  men  had 
great  responsibilities.  The  people  in 
Great  Britain  needed  to  receive  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  They  printed  five  thousand 
copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  three 
thousand  hymnbooks,  two  thousand  and 
five  hundred  volumes  of  the  Millennial 
Star,  and  fifty  thousand  tracts,  and  all 
of  these  were  paid  for  before  Brigham 
Young  returned  home. 

Under  the  direction  of  another  great 
apostle,  Brother  Harold  B.  Lee,  a  stake 
was  recently  organized  in  Manchester. 
The  English  people  have  the  same  op- 
portunity and  privilege  now  of  attending 
these  fine  stake  conferences  as  we  do  here 
in  Zion. 

With  Brother  Hugh  B.  Brown,  Sister 
Wirthlin  and  I  had  the  privilege  of  at- 
tending the  Manchester  Stake  confer- 
ence. The  spirit  and  attitude  of  the 
people  were  most  inspiring  and  encour- 
aging. I  am  sure  in  the  days  to  come 
there  will  be  other  stakes  organized. 
Great  Britain  is  growing  in  the  Church. 
Many  thousands  of  people  are  anxious 
to  hear  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  To  me  that  is  so  impressive 
because  I  recall  the  time  when  we,  as 
missionaries  laboring  in  Germany,  had 
to  leave  Germany  during  World  War  I 
and  make  our  way  to  London.  I  recall 
some  individuals  who  did  everything 
they  could  to  prevent  us  from  holding  a 
street  meeting.  In  fact,  the  president  of 
the  conference  said,  "I  believe  we  had 
better  go  back  to  the  mission  home," 
which  we  did.  The  crowd  followed  us 
right  to  the  door  of  the  mission  home 
and  made  the  statement,  "If  we  had 
rocks,  we  would  throw  them."  That  was 
the  spirit  in  Great  Britain  forty-six  years 
ago.  While  there,  we  met  another  apos- 
tle, Hyrum  M.  Smith.  He  assigned  each 
missionary  to  another  field  of  labor. 
The  German  submarines  were  sinking 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


31 


every  English  ship  possible.  Finally,  we 
heard  that  the  Lusitania  was  going  to 
sail.  We  went  to  President  Smith  and 
said,  "Now,  President,  we  understand  the 
Lusitania  is  going  to  sail,"  and  he  said, 
"You  can  go.  Not  only  that,  you  will 
arrive  home  safely."  He  made  that 
statement  very  definite  to  us.  We  were 
not  worried  about  traveling  on  the 
Lusitania,  so  we  made  our  way  back  to 
New  York,  and  six  months  later,  the 
Lusitania  was  sunk  by  a  German  sub- 
marine. President  Hyrum  M.  Smith 
was  one  who  had  the  inspiration  and 
divine  guidance. 

During  the  past  summer,  Bishop 
Buehner,  Sister  Buehner,  Sister  Wirth- 
lin,  and  I  had  the  privilege  of  visiting  in 
Europe.  Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer  is  now 
president  of  the  European  Mission  and 
is  doing  a  great  and  marvelous  work 
through  divine  guidance  and  inspiration 
with  very  little  government  interfer- 
ence. When  I  was  in  Germany,  we  did 
not  have  that  privilege.  I  labored  in 
Frankfurt  for  a  short  time  when  the 
police  forced  me  to  leave.  I  then  went 
into  Stuttgart  and  the  police  arrested 
me  three  times,  and  the  third  time  I 
had  to  leave.  The  same  thing  happened 
in  Karlsruhe.  Then,  the  war  came  and, 
of  course,  we  all  left  the  mission. 

At  the  present  time  in  Great  Britain, 
Germany,  and  all  parts  of  Western  Eu- 
rope, our  missionaries  now  have  the 
opportunity  of  teaching  and  preaching 
the  gospel  without  government  inter- 
ference. As  I  see  what  is  being  accom- 
plished, I  have  been  very  much  interested 
in  knowing  the  number  of  converts  we 
have  in  Great  Britain.  From  January  1, 
1960  to  August  31,  1960,  there  have  been 
baptized  in  the  British  Mission  and 
North  British  Mission  2,387  Saints — a 
wonderful  number,  and  I  am  sure  be- 
fore the  end  of  the  year  they  will  bap- 
tize many  more.  Then,  I  noticed  that  in 
the  Danish  Mission  for  that  period,  they 
have  baptized  202.  In  the  Finnish  Mis- 
sion for  that  same  period  of  time  160, 
in  the  Netherlands  Mission  303,  and 
in  the  French  Mission  for  that  same 
period  almost  600!  I  recall  when  I  was 
in  the  German  Mission,  we  thought  that 
to  spend  any  time  in  teaching  and 
preaching  the  gospel  to  the  French  peo- 
ple was  just  a  waste  of  time,  but  the 
French  people  have  a  desire  to  hear  the 


gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We 
have  wonderful  missionaries  there.  As 
a  result  six  hundred  have  accepted  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  the 
last  eight  months,  and  the  president  of 
that  mission  indicated  that  he  antici- 
pated before  the  end  of  this  year  there 
would  be  another  six  hundred,  or  ap- 
proximately twelve  hundred  Saints — 
converts  for  1960.  I  noticed  particularly 
in  the  North  German  Mission  there  were 
286  converts,  the  South  German  Mis- 
sion 210,  and  the  West  German  Mission 
310,  or  a  total  of  806  German  people 
baptized.  That  itself  is  marvelous.  In 
the  Swedish  Mission,  they  baptized  129. 

In  the  Swiss-Austrian  Mission,  they 
have  baptized  594,  300  of  whom  are 
youth.  The  young  people  in  these  for- 
eign countries  are  anxious  to  hear  the 
gospel.  I  have  talked  to  the  mission- 
aries on  many  occasions,  particularly  in 
Austria.  I  asked  them  this  question, 
"Now,  just  what  do  these  people  say  to 
you  about  the  Prophet  Joseph."  "Well," 
they  say,  "these  people  want  to  know 
who  Joseph  Smith  was  and  what  is  the 
Book  of  Mormon."  To  them,  there  is 
a  great  interest  in  the  fact  that  an 
American  prophet  made  it  possible  for 
them  to  read  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

I  recall  again  the  time  when  we  were 
endeavoring  to  preach  the  gospel  in 
Germany  that  we  dared  not  go  into 
Austria.  We  only  had  fifteen  members 
in  the  great  city  of  Vienna,  but  when 
we  visited  there  some  seven  weeks  ago, 
we  had  350  members,  and  since  that 
time  Austria  has  become  a  mission  of 
its  own,  and  they  will  baptize  literally 
thousands  of  these  wonderful  people. 
So,  we  come  to  the  conclusion,  brethren 
and  sisters,  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  is  being  made  available  to  many 
nations,  but  when  we  are  going  to  have 
the  opportunity  of  preaching  the  gospel 
to  the  people  in  Russia  or  the  people  in 
India  or  the  people  in  China,  I  do  not 
know.  But,  as  the  President  said  this 
morning,  sooner  or  later  all  these  na- 
tions will  hear  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  just  exactly  as  they  have 
heard  it  in  Great  Britain  and  as  they 
have  heard  it  in  the  European  missions. 
So,  in  the  final  analysis,  that  is  a  won- 
derful revelation  given  to  us  by  the 
Lord  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  when 
he  said:  "And  the  voice  of  warning 


32  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  October  7 

shall  be  unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths 
of  my  disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen 
in  these  last  days."  (Ibid.,  1:4.) 

Today,  there  is  difficulty  in  the  world 
with  war  and  the  possibilities  of  war, 
but  in  the  last  days,  the  Lord  has  made 
it  very  clear  that  his  disciples  are  to 
preach  the  gospel  to  all  people,  and  then 
he  said,  "And  they  shall  go  forth  and 
none  shall  stay  them.  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  1:5.) 
Regardless  of  what  nation  they  go  into 
as  time  goes  on  as  this  wonderful 
revelation  says,  ".  .  .  and  none  shall  stay 
them  .  .  .  ,"  they  are  going  to  have  the 
right,  and  they  are  going  to  have  the 
opportunity  and  the  privilege  to  preach 
the  gospel  to  those  not  of  our  faith 
wherever  they  may  be  in  the  world.  And 
the  revelation  goes  on  by  saying,  ".  .  .  for 
I  the  Lord  have  commanded  them." 
(Idem.) 

In  this  marvelous   revelation  given 


First  Day 

to  us  in  1831,  the  Lord  fully  intends 
that  all  of  his  sons  and  daughters 
over  the  earth  are  going  to  have  the 
opportunity  of  hearing  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  If  they  live  the  gos- 
pel, they  will  enjoy  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  whereby  they  can  testify  to  the 
world  that  they  know  that  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son,  and  that 
Joseph  Smith  actually  saw  the  Father 
and  the  Son,  which  I  pray  will  be  the 
testimony  of  each  and  everyone  of  us, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  We  shall  now  hear  from 
Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Some  years  ago  I  attended  a  conference 
of  missionaries  in  a  little  Arizona  town 
which  the  nearby  Indians  gave  an 
Indian  name  signifying  "the  place  where 
the  people  prayed."  That  was  Joseph 
City.  A  month  ago  I  had  the  privilege 
of  going  into  the  mission  field  in  the 
Southwest  Indian  Mission,  and  in  an- 
other city  which  could  well  have  been 
named  by  the  Indians  "the  city  of 
hospitality,"  we  held  a  conference  of 
the  missionaries,  and  this  city  was 
Snowflake. 

The  missionaries  of  the  Southwest  In- 
dian Mission  told  of  their  labors  among 
the  Indians,  and  perhaps  this  is  one  of 
the  most  foreign  of  all  foreign  missions, 
and  is  in  a  land  of  strange  tongues  and 
colorful  people,  a  place  of  high  mountain 
coolness  and  near  sea  level  desert  heat— 
a  land  where  a  new  amalgamation  of 
peoples  and  kindreds  is  taking  place, 
and  where  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is 
neutralizing  the  centuries  of  dwindling 
unbelief. 

I  found  evidence  of  waning  super- 
stition and  of  growing  faith  in  the  gospel. 
I  saw  people  who  have  for  centuries 
been  as  chaff  before  the  wind  settling 
down   to   industry   and   security  and 


permanence — a  people  who  for  more 
than  a  millennium  have  been  "as  a 
vessel  .  .  .  tossed  about  upon  the  waves, 
without  sail  or  anchor,  or  without  any- 
thing wherewith  to  steer  her.  .  .  ." 
(Mormon  5:18.)  I  saw  them  beginning 
to  accept  the  gospel  of  Christ. 

I  saw  them  reclaiming  their  forfeited 
blessings  which  the  Lord  reserved  ".  .  . 
for  the  gentiles  who  shall  possess  the 
land."  (Ibid.,  5:19.)  I  saw  accelera- 
tion in  their  progress  and  the  time  is 
at  hand  when  the  Lord  will  ".  .  .  re- 
member the  covenant  which  he  made 
with  Abraham  and  unto  all  the  house 
of  Israel."  (Ibid.,  5:20.)  ".  .  .  and  as  the 
Lord  liveth  he  will  remember  the  cove- 
nant which  he  hath  made  with  them. 
And  he  knoweth  their  prayers.  .  .  ." 
(Ibid.,  8:23-24.) 

The  work  is  unfolding,  and  blinded 
eyes  begin  to  see,  and  scattered  people 
begin  to  gather.  I  saw  a  striking  con- 
trast in  the  progress  of  the  Indian  people 
today  as  against  that  of  only  fifteen 
years  ago.  Truly  the  scales  of  darkness 
are  falling  from  their  eyes,  and  they  are 
fast  becoming  a  white  and  delightsome 
people. 

In  this  mission  alone  there  are  8400- 


ELDER  SPENCl 

plus  members  of  the  Church.  As  I 
visited  this  area  fifteen  years  ago,  there 
were  ninety-four.  "Are  they  faithful?" 
I  am  asked.  And  the  answer  is,  "Not  all 
of  them.  They  are  just  about  like  their 
white  cousins  in  the  stakes  of  Zion." 
"Are  they  making  headway?"  And  the 
answer  is,  "Yes.  Perhaps  relatively 
greater  headway  than  we  ourselves." 

Indians  are  people,  and  the  longer  I 
serve  with  them  the  more  I  realize  that 
they  respond  to  the  same  teaching  and 
kindness  and  love  as  others  do.  They 
have  the  same  emotions.  Some  can  be 
godless,  but  most  of  them  are  religious. 
I  found  that  faith  is  a  basic  element  in 
their  lives.  I  learned  of  a  Navajo 
couple  who  rushed  their  baby  to  the 
mission  home  for  a  blessing — It  was  livid 
white,  seemed  to  be  dead.  It  was  soon 
well  and  playing  around — and  the  In- 
dian woman  who  lost  her  hearing,  who 
received  it  back  through  the  administra- 
tion of  the  young  missionaries;  or  the 
elder  whose  Navajo  mother  asked  him 
if  he  had  faith  in  Heavenly  Father  when 
the  little  brother  was  lying  desperately 
ill,  and  whose  little  brother  was  wholly 
well  the  next  morning  after  he  himself 
had  hid  in  a  closet  and  prayed  for  his 
brother. 

Yes,  the  Indians  have  faith — a  rather 
simple,  pure,  and  unadulterated  faith,  as 
evidenced  by  the  Indian  mother  who 
asked  the  elders  to  come  to  the  hospital 
to  bless  her  sick  child.  The  next  day 
the  elders  called  at  her  home  and  asked, 
"How  is  the  little  boy?"  And  she  re- 
joined, "Oh,  he's  all  right,"  in  a  tone 
such  as  to  say,  "Well,  you  blessed  him, 
didn't  you?    Of  course  he's  well." 

And  another  Indian  whose  hands 
were  badly  burned  was  in  excruciating 
pain.  The  administration  brought  al- 
most immediate  relief,  and  she  was  using 
her  hands  in  a  day  or  two.  There  was 
the  Indian  family  who  pleaded  with  the 
elders  to  pray  for  rain  for  their  crops 
and  for  the  grass  and  for  the  cattle  and 
the  sheep.  "But  please  be  careful,"  they 
warned.  "The  last  time  the  elders 
prayed  for  rain,  it  came  too  hard,  and 
the  sheep  corrals  were  washed  out  and 
some  of  the  sheep  were  drowned." 

There  was  the  Hopi  elder  in  a  Phoenix 
hospital  with  his  arm  and  leg  para- 
lyzed, and  with  no  use  or  movement. 
He  asked  the  nurse  to  find  a  Mormon 


{  W.  KIMBALL  33 

elder.  A  bishop  was  called  in  who 
purchased  oil,  consecrated  it,  and  ad- 
ministered to  the  Indian  patient.  "He 
sure  had  faith  in  the  Lord,"  said  the 
bishop.  "We  talked  a  little  while,  and 
I  asked  him  if  he  could  wiggle  his  toes, 
and  you  should  have  seen  the  expression 
on  his  face  when  he  tried.  Sure  enough 
they  moved,  and  before  we  left  him  he 
could  raise  the  leg,  and  when  I  visited 
him  last  Sunday  he  could  move  both 
the  leg  and  the  arm." 

The  day  of  the  Lamanites  is  here! 
Young  white  missionaries  throughout  the 
Church  are  happy  in  the  service,  glad 
that  they  were  called  to  this  special 
mission,  some  planning  to  change  their 
college  majors  when  they  return  from 
their  missions  so  they  can  work  among 
the  Indians. 

I  see  a  dependent  people  becoming  in- 
dependent; for  example,  I  see  them 
coming  in  their  pickups  to  meetings, 
whereas  a  decade  ago  they  needed  to  be 
picked  up  by  the  missionaries,  fed,  and 
coddled.  Some  still  must  learn,  but 
they  are  making  progress;  for  instance, 
a  party  was  arranged  by  two  mission- 
aries— the  Indian  people  to  bring  the 
food,  the  elders  to  furnish  the  punch. 
When  they  assembled,  they  had  only 
punch  to  drink.  Later  another  party 
was  arranged — the  Indians  to  bring  the 
food  and  the  elders  to  bring  the  punch. 
They  had  both  food  and  drink.  They 
are  learning. 

We  called  for  a  picture  of  the  Indian 
elders.  Twenty  of  them  came — five  full- 
blood  Navajo  boys,  and  fifteen  who  were 
part  Navajo  and  Apache  and  Ute  and 
Sioux.  One  of  the  Navajo  elders  whose 
mother  and  family  lived  less  than  a 
hundred  miles  away  in  the  same  mis- 
sion had  not  asked  for  leave  to  go  and 
visit  them,  and  he  had  served  eight 
months  in  the  mission.  One  Indian 
elder  said:  "The  first  missionaries 
planted  a  tree  on  the  reservation  years 
ago.  Now  the  tree  is  bearing  fruit — 
Navajo  elders!  The  young  tree  yielded 
little  fruit,  but  the  aging  tree  more 
fruit — more  elders." 

There  was  the  Navajo  elder  who  testi- 
fied of  his  happiness  and  said  that  when 
in  battle — I  think  it  was  in  Korea — he 
had  dreamed  one  night  that  he  was 
with  his  parents  back  on  the  reservation, 
but  he  awakened  to  find  himself  in  mud 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  7 

and  water  and  fire.  Now  he  is  in  the 
midst  of  another  dream,  a  dream  so 
glorious,  he  said,  that  he  hopes  he  will 
never  awaken  from  it. 

These  Indian  elders  are  well-groomed, 
neat,  smiling,  and  equal  to  their  white 
companions — handsome  and  sincere — 
some  struggling  in  the  acquisition  of  the 
difficult  English  language,  and  others 
coming  through  the  Utah  Placement 
Program  speaking  perfect  English  and 
displaying  the  best  of  our  own  culture. 
White  elders  feel  fortunate  when  they 
are  lucky  enough  to  have  a  Navajo 
companion. 

I  see  these  Indian  youth  praying  and 
preaching  and  administering  to  the  sick, 
and  I  remember  the  statement  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph:  "Take  Jacob  Zundell 
and  Frederick  H.  Moeser  .  .  .  and  send 
them  to  Germany  and  when  you  meet 
an  Arab  send  him  to  Arabia;  when  you 
find  an  Italian  send  him  to  Italy:  and 
a  Frenchman,  to  France;  or  an  Indian, 
that  is  suitable,  send  him  among  the 
Indians.  Send  them  to  the  different 
places  where  they  belong."  (DHC 
5:368.) 

At  last  the  Indians  are  suitable.  I 
heard  them  bear  their  witness,  saw  them 
shed  tears  of  joy,  heard  them  express 
their  affection  for  loved  ones.  I  saw 
Indian  boys  actually  coming  in  to  the 
president  to  offer  their  services  as  mis- 
sionaries. That  couldn't  have  happened 
a  decade  ago.  As  we  look  into  the  fu- 
ture, surely  we  shall  see  thousands  of 
Indian  missionaries,  for  through  our 
various  agencies  we  are  now  training 
probably  three  thousand  little  Indian 
boys  in  our  various  departments  who  are 
growing  toward  missionary  work.  Very 
soon  there  will  be  an  Indian  boy  paired 
off  in  missionary  work  with  each  white 
boy,  and  this  will  happen  in  the  other 
Lamanite  missions,  I  am  sure. 

The  day  of  the  Lamanites  is  nigh. 
For  years  they  have  been  growing  de- 
lightsome, and  they  are  now  becoming 
white  and  delightsome,  as  they  were 
promised.  In  this  picture  of  the  twenty 
Lamanite  missionaries,  fifteen  of  the 
twenty  were  as  light  as  Anglos;  five 
were  darker  but  equally  delightsome. 
The  children  in  the  home  placement 
program  in  Utah  are  often  lighter  than 
their  brothers  and  sisters  in  the  hogans 
on  the  reservation. 


First  Day 

At  one  meeting  a  father  and  mother 
and  their  sixteen-year-old  daughter  were 
present,  the  little  member  girl — sixteen 
— sitting  between  the  dark  father  and 
mother,  and  it  was  evident  she  was 
several  shades  lighter  than  her  parents — 
on  the  same  reservation,  in  the  same 
hogan,  subject  to  the  same  sun  and  wind 
and  weather.  There  was  the  doctor  in 
a  Utah  city  who  for  two  years  had  had 
an  Indian  boy  in  his  home  who  stated 
that  he  was  some  shades  lighter  than 
the  younger  brother  just  coming  into 
the  program  from  the  reservation.  These 
young  members  of  the  Church  are 
changing  to  whiteness  and  to  delight- 
someness.  One  white  elder  jokingly  said 
that  he  and  his  companion  were  donat- 
ing blood  regularly  to  the  hospital  in 
the  hope  that  the  process  might  be 
accelerated. 

The  missionaries  are  having  great 
experiences  in  proselyting,  in  teaching, 
in  organizing,  in  carrying  on  Primaries, 
Relief  Societies.  They  direct  women  in 
making  quilts  and  towels  and  pot 
holders,  which  they  say  they  can  sell 
faster  than  they  can  make  them;  but 
always  a  Relief  Society  bazaar  is  in  their 
future  plans.  They  pound  up  broken 
pottery  and  clay  to  make  new  pottery. 
They  do  beadwork,  learn  cooking;  they 
are  taught  first  aid,  bleeding-stoppage, 
use  of  splints,  resuscitation,  moving  the 
injured;  they  are  taught  to  speak  and  to 
sing.  Three  lovely  Lamanite  sisters 
sang  a  trio  in  one  of  our  meetings.  Two 
elders  in  one  area  were  actually  teach- 
ing the  women  how  to  make  diapers. 

We  find  the  Indians  are  learning  to 
be  adaptable  and  resourceful,  and  from 
tradition  they  are  coming  to  truth,  from 
legend  to  fact,  from  sand  paintings  and 
sings  to  administration  and  ordinances. 
The  Indians  are  beginning  to  pay  their 
tithes.  They  are  living  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  They  are  attending  their 
meetings.  They  are  having  family 
prayers,  and  for  a  period  of  this  year 
the  tithes  in  that  mission  are  said  to 
have  been  more  than  the  budget  for  the 
mission. 

They  are  grateful  for  that  which  is 
being  done  for  them.  A  typical  little 
nine-year-old  Indian  prayed:  "Father  in 
heaven,  please  bless  the  missionaries  so 
their  success  will  be  good."  A  typical 
Indian  woman  pleaded:  "When  can  I 


ELDER  SPENC, 

be  baptized?"  And  the  answer  was, 
"When  you  have  learned  a  little  more 
of  the  gospel."  An  Apache  saddle  maker, 
when  given  the  Book  of  Mormon  les- 
sons, said:  "I  know  that  story.  I  know 
that  it  is  true.  My  old  people  told  me 
about  it." 

The  Indians  have  legends  which  might 
be  reminiscent  of  the  three  Nephites,  of 
the  creation,  of  the  flood,  of  the  coming 
of  the  Christ  to  them.  They  are  be- 
ginning to  recognize  the  similarity  be- 
tween their  distorted  tradition  stories 
and  the  truth  which  has  been  recorded. 

A  Jicarilla — Apache  Indian  elder,  first 
counselor  in  the  branch  presidency, 
drives  sixty-four  miles  to  his  meetings 
with  his  family  and  sixty-four  miles 
home  each  time,  and  he  seldom  misses  a 
meeting,  except  in  blizzard  weather.  He 
is  sharp  and  clean  and  handsome  and 
conducts  the  meetings  with  dignity.  He 
speaks  excellent  English,  and  this  is 
again  in  fulfilment  of  my  own  patriar- 
chal blessing,  in  which  I  was  promised: 
"You  will  see  them  organized  and  be 
prepared  to  stand  as  the  bulwark  round 
this  people." 

In  the  temple,  in  the  June  excur- 
sion, were  a  Navajo  groom  and  a  Pima 
bride,  a  Cherokee  groom  and  a  Navajo 
bride;  and  these,  typical  of  the  many 
Indians,  are  taking  seriously  to  the  gospel 
program.  When  they  were  in  this  con- 
vention, the  good  Mesa  people  graciously 
took  care  of  their  needs,  and  this  again 
was  in  fulfilment  of  the  prophecy  of 
Joseph  Smith.  He  said: 

"There  will  be  tens  of  thousands  of 
Latter-day  Saints  who  will  be  gathered 
in  the  Rocky  Mountains,  and  there  they 
will  open  the  door  for  the  establishing 
of  the  gospel  among  the  Lamanites  who 
will  receive  the  gospel  and  their  endow- 
ments and  the  blessings  of  God."  (Dis- 
courses of  Wilford  Woodruff,  pp.  30-39.) 

One's  heart  is  touched  when  he  sees 
thirty  or  forty  little  Hopi  boys  and  girls 
gathered  together  in  Primary,  being 
taught  by  nineteen-year-old  mission- 
aries, and  it  is  stirring  even  more  to  see 
twenty  little  wild  Apache  Indians  gallop- 
ing over  the  hills  on  their  burros  to 
attend  Primary  at  Fort  Apache. 

The  young  missionaries  are  learning 
the  difficult  Navajo  language,  and  the 
older  couples  are  using  largely  the  lan- 
guage of  love.  The  Navajo  tongue  is  so 


I  W.  KIMBALL  35 

difficult  that  it  is  said  to  have  been  used 
to  send  code  messages  in  World  War  II 
because  the  Japanese  could  not  decode 
it.  It  is  heartwarming  to  hear  the  young 
Navajo  elder  struggling  with  his  English 
pronunciation  and  vocabulary,  but  never 
hesitating  to  express  his  thoughts  con- 
vincingly and  bearing  his  testimony  im- 
pressively. He  had  been  told  by  his 
dying  mother  when  he  was  a  little  boy: 
"Go  to  Mormon  Church.  It  is  true 
church."  He  choked  and  struggled  with 
his  tears. 

One  devoted  missionary  couple  was 
stuck  in  the  snow  last  winter,  and  the 
husband  pushed  the  car  while  the  wife 
steered  it.  In  doing  so  he  fell  and  broke 
his  knee  and  then  pleaded  with  the 
president:  "Please  do  not  send  us  home. 
Put  us  in  the  hospital  for  a  little  time." 
He  was  given  a  metal  knee  and  then 
crutches,  and  Indians  who  saw  him 
hobbling  around  said:  "Anyone  as  sin- 
cere as  that  ought  to  be  listened  to."  And 
this  mother  who  now  has  her  children 
reared  told  of  her  patriarchal  blessing 
given  long  years  ago,  indicating  she 
would  go  on  a  mission  with  her  hus- 
band, but  since  she  was  tied  with  her 
large  family  of  little  children,  her  hus- 
band filled  his  mission  alone  and  was 
killed  in  an  auto  accident  returning 
home.  How  could  her  blessing  ever  be 
fulfilled,  she  wondered,  with  children 
to  educate  and  sons  to  send  on  missions, 
and  she  in  her  widowhood?  But  when 
the  family  was  educated  and  the  sons 
had  filled  their  missions,  she  married 
another  man,  a  convert,  and  together 
they  are  now  fulfilling  the  patriarchal 
blessing  and  filling  glorious  missions. 

The  day  of  the  Lamanites  has  come. 
The  Indians  of  this  country,  particularly 
of  the  southwest,  have  many  blessings 
which  are  theirs  today  but  which  were 
not  theirs  yesterday.  Government  agen- 
cies, other  groups  as  well  as  ourselves, 
have  been  conscious  of  their  former 
serious  plight.  But  today  the  dark 
clouds  are  dissipating.  Whereas  only  a 
decade  ago  tens  of  thousands  of  children 
were  without  schooling,  today  practically 
every  child  has  some  educational  oppor- 
tunity. May  I  quote  a  paragraph  from 
my  address  to  this  conference  in  1947 
regarding  these  Indians: 

"The  health  conditions  are  deplorable. 
They  have  but  one  full-time  dentist  for 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


36 

Friday,  October  7 

63,000  people  and  no  field  nurse  or 
doctor.  The  death  rate  is  very  high, 
being  16  per  thousand  as  against  6.36 
for  the  Church.  The  large  family  lives 
in  the  dirt  hogan  being  one  small  circu- 
lar room  with  dirt  floor,  no  windows, 
and  with  a  stove  or  fire  in  the  center. 
All  members  of  the  family  sleep  on 
sheep  pelts  on  the  floor.  There  is  no 
privacy,  practically  no  furniture  or 
equipment.  There  are  no  sanitary  con- 
veniences inside  or  out.  With  a  single 
towel,  a  common  cup,  no  hot  water  nor 
disinfectants,  it  is  easy  to  see  why  tra- 
choma, impetigo,  and  other  skin  diseases 
run  through  the  family,  and  why  dysen- 
tery, venereal  diseases,  and  tuberculosis 
run  rampant.  In  a  survey  of  thirty-one 
families  it  was  found  that  an  average  of 
three  in  each  family  had  tuberculosis. 
In  their  scattered  condition,  and  with 
such  limited  hospital  facilities,  many  lie 
in  their  hogans,  coughing  in  the  air, 
spitting  on  the  floor,  to  finally  die  on  the 

dirt  floor  without  medical  assistance  " 

(See  The  Improvement  Era,  May  1947, 
p.  348.) 

But  today  there  are  hospitals,  doctors, 
nurses,  and  dentists.  Many  families  live 
in  comfortable  homes,  fairly  well  fur- 
nished. Disease  is  disappearing,  tuber- 
culosis much  under  control,  and 
sanitation  greatly  improving.  In  our 
recent  examination  of  over  four  hundred 
children  in  our  health  clinic  as  we 
brought  them  into  Utah  for  this  fall, 
we  found  that  there  were  no  positive 
results  from  our  X-ray  examinations. 

In  the  40's  these  people  had  an  aver- 
age income  of  about  $81  a  year.  They 
lived  upon  land  which  to  most  of  us 
seemed  worthless,  barren,  and  for- 
bidding; but  the  desolate  land  is  pro- 
ducing oil  and  gas  and  uranium  and 
coal  and  lumber,  and  many  millions 
of  dollars  are  flowing  into  the  tribal 
treasury.  In  early  days  it  was  each  fam- 
ily for  itself;  today  the  Tribal  Council 
is  using  wisely  these  vast  sums  to  build 
highways  and  hospitals  and  schools  and 
to  give  scholarships.  What  a  strange 
paradox,  that  the  land  given  to  the 
Indians,  desolate  and  unwanted,  turns 
out  to  be  the  source  of  many  blessings! 
Was  not  Providence  smiling  on  these 
folks  and  looking  toward  this  day? 

Today  we  teach  the  gospel  to  the 
Indian  youth,  and  tomorrow  there  will 


First  Day 

be  thousands  of  them  on  missions. 
Nearly  all  their  marriages  will  be  per- 
formed in  the  temples.  They  will  give 
leadership  in  wards  and  stakes  which 
will  be  organized  in  their  areas,  and 
with  their  white  brothers  they  will  be- 
come leaders  in  the  kingdom.  Groups 
of  stakes  are  organized  into  regional 
minority  missions.  About  320  of  the 
2300  Indians  in  Brigham  City  are 
members  of  the  Church,  and  we  have  a 
delightful  chapel  which  President 
McKay  dedicated  there. 

At  Albuquerque,  Riverside,  at  Chilloco 
and  at  Lawrence  in  Kansas,  at  Carson 
City  in  Nevada,  at  Chemawa  in  Oregon, 
at  Anadarko  in  Oklahoma,  and  else- 
where, our  youth — hundreds  and  hun- 
dreds of  them — are  receiving  comparable 
seminary  training.  At  Aztec,  Gallup, 
Richfield,  Flagstaff,  Holbrook,  Snow- 
flake,  and  Winslow  we  are  training 
them  in  connection  with  the  govern- 
ment peripheral  schools. 

About  420  Indian  children  are  re- 
ceiving the  superior  training  in  Utah 
homes  under  the  educational  placement 
program.  These  children  are  being  fed, 
housed,  clothed,  and  loved  by  the  self- 
less people  of  Utah  who  take  them  into 
their  finest  homes — philanthropic  peo- 
ple who  come  to  love  the  Indian  children 
as  their  own,  and  who  give  them  every 
advantage — cultural,  spiritual,  and  edu- 
cational, and  who  train  them  in  scout- 
ing organizational  work,  in  family 
prayers,  in  seminary,  and  in  home 
activities.  I  quote  from  a  recent  letter 
from  an  authority  on  Indian  life  and 
education: 

"I  think  you  have  a  very  commend- 
able program  and  one  which  is  prob- 
ably the  only  positive  approach  to  the 
Indian  problem  in  the  United  States. 
I  have  spent  a  great  part  of  my  life 
living  with  or  working  with  Indian  peo- 
ple and  have  yet  to  see  any  program 
which  has  taken  the  Indian  out  of  him- 
self and  started  him  down  the  road  to 
progress." 

As  these  children  complete  their  grade 
and  high  school  work,  Brigham  Young 
University  is  ready  to  receive  them,  and 
special  guidance  courses  and  training 
advisers  give  them  leadership,  and  each 
year  now  our  Indian  students  parade  in 
cap  and  gown  with  the  other  hundreds 
of  graduates  of  this  great  institution. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


37 


We  have  follow-up  programs  to  help 
the  Indian  youth  gain  employment  as 
they  complete  their  schoolwork. 

A  new  class  instruction  program  is 
organized  on  the  reservation,  whereby 
the  little  Indians  are  given  religious 
training.  At  present  some  2500  little 
fellows  present  themselves  weekly  or 
oftener  to  the  young  missionaries  for 
religious  instruction,  assigned  by  the 
parents  to  the  church  of  their  choice. 
These  little  ones  are  being  taught  in 
about  sixty  classes,  and  young  mission- 
aries are  proving  their  mettle  in  training 
them. 

Two  young  elders  teach  102  children 
in  their  classes,  and  another  couple,  a 
Navajo  and  a  white  elder,  are  teaching 
135  little  boys  and  girls  together  with 
some  of  their  parents  who  asked  for  the 
privilege  of  coming. 

Not  only  the  southwest  Indians,  but 
Lamanites  in  general,  are  facing  an 
open  door  to  education,  culture,  refine- 
ment, progress,  and  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  The  Church  has  spent  its  mil- 
lions in  Hawaii  and  New  Zealand  and 
other  islands  to  provide  schools  for  the 
young  Lehites.  Surely,  no  descendants 
need  go  now  without  an  education,  and 
schools  in  Mexico  will  be  followed  by 
schools  in  other  nations.  Surely  the 
number  of  deprived  ones  is  being  re- 
duced, and  opportunity  is  knocking  at 
their  door.  Hundreds  of  Lamanites  are 
serving  in  mission  fields  in  both  Amer- 
icas and  in  the  islands  of  the  sea.  La- 
manites are  exercising  their  priesthood 
and  rearing  their  families  in  righteous- 
ness. A  new  world  is  open  to  them, 
and  they  are  grasping  the  opportunities. 
God  bless  the  Lamanites  and  hasten 
the  day  of  their  total  emancipation  from 
the  thraldom  of  their  yesterday. 

I  pray  this  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken 
to  us.  The  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  will  now  favor  us  with  "Abide 
With  Me,  'Tis  Eventide,"  conducted  by 


Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen.  The 
benediction  will  be  offered  by  President 
Austin  G.  Hunt,  president  of  the  Amer- 
ican River  Stake,  after  which  this  Con- 
ference will  stand  adjourned  until  ten 
o'clock  tomorrow  morning. 

There  will  be  a  special  Presiding 
Bishopric's  meeting  in  the  Tabernacle 
this  evening  at  6:30  o'clock.  Expected 
to  attend  are  bishops  and  their  counse- 
lors, stake  and  ward  committees  for 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  those  members  un- 
der 21,  and  stake  committees  on  ward 
teaching.  Stake  presidents  and  high 
councilmen  are  invited  to  attend. 

A  Welfare  Agricultural  meeting  will 
be  held  tomorrow  morning  at  7:30 
o'clock.  Stake  presidents,  bishops,  agri- 
cultural representatives,  and  all  who  are 
interested  in  agriculture  are  invited. 

The  singing  for  this  session,  as  you 
know,  and  as  you  have  enioyed,  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  of  the  Ogden  and  Northern 
Utah  Regions.  You  have  enjoyed  it 
and  have  been  inspired.  Do  you  realize 
how  many  hours  these  mothers  have  put 
in  practicing  for  our  enjoyment?  Do 
we  stop  to  think  how  many  hours  Sister 
Madsen  has  put  in  to  train  these  and 
other  groups  throughout  the  Church?  No 
wonder  there  radiates  from  them  a  spirit 
which  touches  the  heart.  These  are  our 
mothers.  God  bless  them  always,  and 
all  the  mothers  throughout  Israel.  They 
deserve  our  most  tender  care,  husbands, 
fathers,  and  may  they  go  from  this  Con- 
ference realizing  that  they  have  the 
love  and  friendliness  and  the  blessing 
of  the  men  and  women  who  have  re- 
joiced in  the  spirit  they  have  radiated 
through  song. 

"Abide  With  Me,  'Tis  Eventide,"  after 
which  the  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
President  Austin  G.  Hunt  of  the  Ameri- 
can River  Stake. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
sang  the  hymn,  "Abide  With  Me,  'Tis 
Eventide,"  following  which  the  benedic- 
tion was  pronounced  by  Austin  G.  Hunt, 
president  of  the  American  River  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Saturday 
morning,  October  8,  at  10:00  a.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  Saturday  morn- 
ing, October  8,  at  10:00  a.m.,  with 
President  David  O.  McKay  presiding 
and  conducting  the  meeting. 

The  choral  music  for  this  session  was 
furnished  by  the  University  of  Utah 
Choral  Society  and  the  Bonneville 
Strings — singers  from  the  Institute  of 
Religion  and  the  University  Choral 
Groups,  David  Austin  Shand,  Director. 
Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the  Organ. 

President  McKay  opened  the  meeting 
with  the  following  introductory  re- 
marks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City  in  the  third  session  of  the 
130th  Semi-Annual  Conference. 

We  have  just  been  in  telephone  com- 
munication with  President  Clark.  He 
joins  in  sending  love  and  blessings  to 
you  all  and  appreciates  your  faith  and 
prayers  in  his  behalf.  He  is  feeling 
pretty  well  this  morning.  I  am  pleased 
to  extend  his  love  to  you  all. 

The  Tabernacle  is  filled  to  overflow- 
ing this  Saturday  morning  and  many  are 
listening  by  radio  and  television. 

We  acknowledge  the  presence  of  many 
stake  presidencies,  high  councilmen, 
bishoprics,  temple  presidencies,  general 
auxiliary  officers,  mission  presidents 
from  the  United  States,  Mexico,  Central 
America,  Canada,  and  Hawaii.  We  also 
extend  a  hearty  welcome  and  express 
satisfaction  and  pleasure  in  the  attend- 
ance of  prominent  men  in  the  nation 
and  the  state.  We  missed  one  or  two 
yesterday,  but  I  have  the  following: 
Senator  Wallace  F.  Bennett,  Governor 
George  Dewey  Clyde,  Governor  of  the 
State  of  Utah;  LaMont  F.  Toronto,  Sec- 
retary of  the  State  of  Utah;  President 
Daryl  Chase,  president  of  the  Utah  State 
University;  President  John  L.  Clarke, 
president  of  Ricks  College;  President 
Howard  McDonald,  president  of  Los 
Angeles  State  College;  and  undoubtedly 
others,  to  whom  we  bid  welcome;  also 


the  boys  from  North  Dakota  arriving  at 
noon  at  Salt  Lake  Municipal  Airport 
with  sixteen  associates  from  Minot  Air 
Force  Base,  North  Dakota,  to  attend 
Conference,  Lieutenant  Edington  and 
other  boys  who  undoubtedly  have  come 
in  to  join  us,  we  welcome  you. 

As  before,  this  Conference  is  broad- 
cast over  television  and  radio  stations 
throughout  the  West.  The  names  of 
these  stations  were  announced  prior  to 
the  opening  of  this  session.  The  session 
is  also  being  broadcast  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  Barratt  Hall  by  television. 
Those  who  are  standing  in  the  doorways 
may  possibly  find  seats  in  these  other 
halls. 

The  singing  for  this  session  will  be 
furnished  by  the  University  of  Utah 
Choral  Society  and  the  Bonneville 
Strings— singers  from  the  Institute  of 
Religion  and  the  University  of  Utah 
Choral  Groups,  under  the  direction  of 
Professor  David  A.  Shand,  with  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  these 
combined  choral  groups  singing,  "There 
Is  Beauty  All  Around."  The  invocation 
will  be  offered  bv  Elder  Albert  B.  Cran- 
dall,  president  of  the  Sacramento  Stake. 

We  shall  now  be  favored  by  this 
group  of  young  people,  whom  we  wel- 
come gladly,  singing,  "There  Is  Beauty 
All  Around." 


The  Combined  Choral  Groups  pre- 
sented the  number:  "There  Is  Beauty  All 
Around." 

Elder  Albert  B.  Crandall,  president  of 
the  Sacramento  Stake,  offered  the  open- 
ing prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  just  offered  by 
President  Albert  B.  Crandall  of  the 
Sacramento  Stake.  The  University  of 
Utah  Choral  Society  and  the  Bonneville 
Strings,  singers  from  the  Institute  of  Re- 
ligion and  the  University  Choral  Groups, 
will  no  favor  us  with,  "I  Stand  All 
Amazed,"  conducted  by  Professor  David 


CHANGES  IN  CHUI 

A.  Shand.  After  the  singing,  we  shall 
have  presented  changes  in  Church  Offi- 
cers by  the  Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


The  Combined  Choral  Groups  ren- 
dered the  selection:  "I  Stand  All 
Amazed." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  will  now  read  the  changes 
in  Church  officers,  temples,  missions, 
stake,  ward,  branch  organizations  since 
April  Conference,  1960,  and  the  obitu- 
aries of  the  Church,  and  such  statistics 
as  should  be  presented  to  this  Confer- 
ence. He  will  be  followed  by  President 
Henry  D.  Moyle,  who  will  present  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  then  read  statistical  data: 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 
TEMPLE,  MISSION,  STAKE,  WARD, 
AND  BRANCH  ORGANIZATIONS 
SINCE  APRIL  CONFERENCE,  1960 

NEW  MISSIONS  ORGANIZED 

Austrian  Mission,  by  a  division  of  the 
Swiss- Austrian  Mission. 

MISSION  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Austrian  Mission:  W.  Whitney  Smith. 

California  Mission:  Bryan  L.  Bunker 
to  succeed  Jesse  A.  Udall. 

Eastern  Atlantic  States  Mission  (new 
mission  to  be  organized) ;  George  B.  Hill. 

Florida  Mission  (new  mission  to  be 
organized) :  Karl  R.  Lyman. 

French  Polynesian  Mission:  Kendall 
Young  to  succeed  Joseph  R.  Reeder. 

North  Central  States  Mission:  Clement 
P.  Hilton  to  succeed  Paul  C.  Child. 

Northern  States  Mission:  Richard  W. 
Maycock  to  succeed  Richard  C.  Strat- 
ford. 

Samoan  Mission:  Joseph  R.  Reeder 
to  succeed  Charles  I.  Sampson. 

South  African  Mission:  O.  Layton 
Alldredge  to  succeed  Glen  G.  Fisher. 

South  German  Mission:  T.  Quentin 
Cannon  to  succeed  John  A.  Buehner. 

Uruguayan  Mission:  J.  Thomas  Fyans 


H  ORGANIZATIONS  39 

to  succeed  Arthur  Martin  Jensen. 

West  Central  States  Mission:  Grant 
G.  Woolley  to  succeed  Casper  W.  Mer- 
rill. 

West  Mexican  Mission  (new  mission 
to  be  organized) :  Harold  fi.  Turley. 

Western  States  Mission:  Horace  A. 
Christiansen  to  succeed  David  S.  Rom- 
ney. 

CHANGE  IN  MISSION  NAME 

Swiss  Mission,  formerly  the  Swiss- 
Austrian  Mission. 

NEW  STAKES  ORGANIZED 

Brigham  Young  University  Second 
Stake  organized  April  17,  1960  by  divi- 
sion of  Brigham  Young  University  Stake. 

Brigham  Young  University  Third 
Stake  organized  April  17,  1960  by  divi- 
sion of  Brigham  Young  University  Stake. 

Napa  Stake  organized  April  17,  1960 
by  division  of  Santa  Rosa  Stake. 

Pikes  Peak  Stake  organized  September 
11,  1960  from  a  part  of  the  Western 
States  Mission. 

Puget  Sound  Stake  organized  June  19, 
1960  by  division  of  Tacoma  Stake. 

Riverton  Stake  organized  September 
18,  1960  by  division  of  West  Jordan 
Stake. 

Taber  Stake  organized  September  11, 
1960  by  division  of  Lethbridge  and  Cal- 
gary Stake. 

Toronto  Stake  organized  August  14, 
1960  from  a  part  of  the  Canadian  Mis- 
sion. 

Tulsa  Stake  organized  May  1,  1960 
from  a  part  of  the  Central  States  Mission. 

STAKE  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Brigham  Young  University  Stake: 
Wayne  B.  Hales,  to  succeed  Antone  K. 
Romney. 

Brigham  Young  University  Second:  B. 
West  Belnap. 

Brigham  Young  University  Third 
Stake:  W.  Noble  Waite. 

Burley  Stake:  Isaac  William  Lee,  to 
succeed  Newel  P.  Baker. 

Denver  West  Stake:  R.  Raymond 
Barnes,  to  succeed  Thomas  L.  Kimball. 

East  Mill  Creek  Stake:  Wendell  J. 
Ashton,  to  succeed  O.  Layton  Alldredge. 

East  Provo  Stake:  L.  Flake  Rogers,  to 
succeed  Sherman  T.  Hill. 


40 

Saturday,  October  8 

Holladay  Stake:  A.  Ray  Curtis,  to 
succeed  Bernard  P.  Brockbank. 

Lethbridge  Stake:  Elmo  Eugene 
Fletcher,  to  succeed  Grant  G.  Woolley. 

Liberty  Stake:  Carman  A.  Black  to 
succeed  Walter  W.  Hunter. 

Murray  South  Stake:  Junior  Wright 
Child,  to  succeed  Donald  W.  Challis. 

Napa  Stake:  Harry  S.  Cragun. 

Nevada  Stake:  Clair  B.  Black,  to  suc- 
ceed Wendell  S.  Lambert. 

Pikes  Peak  Stake:  Ralph  Miller 
Gardner. 

Puget  Sound  Stake:  Herbert  S.  Ander- 
son. 

Riverton  Stake:  John  Harold  Berrett. 

San  Jose  Stake:  Horace  J.  Ritchie,  to 
succeed  Vernard  L.  Beckstrand. 

Santa  Rosa  Stake:  Weston  L.  Roe,  to 
succeed  John  L.  Murdock. 

Taber  Stake:  Ray  B.  Evanson. 

Tacoma  Stake:  Owen  H.  Dickson,  to 
succeed  Elvin  E.  Evans. 

Toronto  Stake:  William  M.  Davies. 

Tulsa  Stake:  Robert  N.  Sears. 

Uvada  Stake:  Grant  I.  Clove,  to  suc- 
ceed Arthur  J.  Barlocker. 

Young  Stake:  Glen  O.  Hamblin,  to 
succeed  Clement  P.  Hilton. 

NEW  WARDS  ORGANIZED 

Atlanta  Stake:  Atlanta  Third  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Atlanta  Ward. 

Auckland  Stake:  Huntley  Ward,  form- 
erly Huntley  Branch. 

Ben  Lomond  Stake:  Ogden  Sixty- 
Second  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Ogden  Fortieth  Ward;  Ogden  Sixty- 
Third  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
North  Ogden  Fourth  Ward;  Pleasant 
View  Second  Ward,  formed  by  division 
of  Pleasant  View  Ward. 

Brigham  Young  University  Stake: 
B.  Y.  Campus  Twenty-Seventh  Ward, 
formed  from  various  wards. 

Brigham  Young  University  Second 
Stake:  B.  Y.  Campus  Twenty-Eighth 
Ward,  from  various  wards. 

Cannon  Stake:  Cannon  Eighth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Cannon  Second 
and  Fourth  Wards. 

Canyon  Rim  Stake:  Canyon  Rim 
Third  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Canyon  Rim  and  Canyon  Rim  Second 
Wards;  Canyon  Rim  Fourth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Highland  View 
and  Highland  View  West  Wards. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Cedar  Stake:  Cedar  Tenth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Cedar  First  and 
Fifth  Wards. 

Cheyenne  Stake:  Torrington  Ward, 
formerly  Torrington  Branch. 

Cottonwood  Stake:  Cottonwood  Sixth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Cottonwood 
Second  Ward;  Cottonwood  Seventh 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Cottonwood 
Fourth  Ward. 

Covina  Stake:  Covina  Third  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Covina  Ward. 

Davis  Stake:  Centerville  Fourth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Centerville  First, 
Second,  and  Third  Wards;  Centerville 
Fifth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Cen- 
terville First,  Second  and  Third  Wards. 

East  Mesa  Stake:  Mesa  Eighteenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Mesa  Sixth 
Ward. 

El  Paso  Stake:  El  Paso  Sixth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  El  Paso  First  and 
Second  Wards;  Carlsbad  Ward,  former- 
ly Carlsbad  Branch. 

Farr  West  Stake:  Plain  City  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Plain  City 
Ward. 

Gridley  Stake:  Chico  Second  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Chico  Ward. 

Hayward  Stake:  Castro  Valley  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Castro 
Valley  Ward. 

Kearns  Stake:  Kearns  Fifteenth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Kearns  Twelfth 
Ward. 

Klamath  Stake:  Medford  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Medford 
Ward. 

Lake  View  Stake:  Roy  Eighth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Roy  Third  Ward. 

Lethbridge  Stake:  Champion  Ward, 
formerly  Champion  Branch;  Lethbridge 
Fifth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Leth- 
bridge First  and  Second  Wards. 

Manchester  Stake:  Brandford,  Dews- 
bury,  Halifax,  Huddersfield,  Leeds, 
Liverpool,  Manchester,  Oldham,  and 
Rochdale  Wards,  formerly  branches  in 
the  British  Mission. 

Monterey  Bay  Stake:  Gilroy  Ward, 
formerly  Gilroy  Branch. 

Mt.  Jordan  Stake:  Crescent  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Crescent 
Ward. 

Napa  Stake:  Napa  Second  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Napa  Ward. 

Oahu  Stake:  Hauula  Ward,  formerly 
Hauula  Branch. 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  ORGANIZATIONS 


41 


Olympus  Stake:  Holladay  Sixteenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Holladay 
Seventh  Ward. 

Palo  Alto  Stake:  Mountain  View 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Los  Altos 
Ward. 

Pikes  Peak  Stake:  Colorado  Springs, 
Colorado  Springs  Second,  Pueblo  and 
Pueblo  Second  Wards,  formerly  branches 
in  the  Western  States  Mission. 

Reseda  Stake:  Simi  Ward,  formerly 
Simi  Branch;  Thousand  Oaks  Ward, 
formerly  Thousand  Oaks  Branch; 
Northridge  Ward,  formed  by  division 
of  Granada  Hills  Ward;  Reseda  Third, 
formed  by  division  of  Reseda  Second 
Ward. 

San  Fernando  Stake:  Newhall  Ward, 
formerly  Newhall  Branch. 

San  Luis  Stake:  Rio  Grande  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Del  Norte  and 
Monte  Vista  Branches. 

San  Mateo  Stake:  South  San  Francisco 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  San  Bruno 
Ward. 

Sandy  Stake:  Sandy  Ninth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Sandy  Eighth 
Ward. 

Snowflake  Stake:  Holbrook  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Holbrook 
Ward. 

South  Idaho  Falls  Stake:  Idaho  Falls 
Twenty-Sixth  Ward,  formed  by  division 
of  Idaho  Falls  Twenty-Second  Ward. 

Temple  View  Stake:  Lucero  Ward, 
formerly  Mexican  Branch. 

Toronto  Stake:  Hamilton,  Kitchener, 
Oshawa,  St.  Catharines,  Toronto,  and 
Toronto  Second  Wards,  formerly 
branches  in  the  Canadian  Mission. 

Tulsa  Stake:  Bartlesville,  Tulsa,  Tulsa 
Second  Wards,  formerly  branches  in  the 
Central  States  Mission. 

University  Stake:  University  Seventh 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  University 
Third,  Fourth,  and  Sixth  Wards. 

Whittier  Stake:  Whittier  Fifth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Whittier  Third 
Ward;  Whittier  Sixth  Ward,  formed  by 
division  of  Whittier  First  Ward. 

Willamette  Stake:  Salem  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Salem 
First  Ward. 

Winder  Stake:  Winder  Second  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Mill  Creek 
Fourth,  Seventh,  and  Tenth  Wards. 

Young  Stake:  Cortez  Ward,  formerly 
Cortez  Branch. 


WARDS  AND  BRANCHES 
TRANSFERRED 

Brigham  Young  University  Second 
Stake:  B.  Y.  Campus  Second,  Third, 
Fifth,  Twelfth,  Seventeenth,  Eighteenth, 
Twentieth,  and  Twenty-Second  Wards, 
formerly  of  Brigham  Young  University 
Stake. 

Brigham  Young  University  Third 
Stake:  B.  Y.  Campus  First,  Fourth,  Tenth, 
Thirteenth,  Fourteenth,  Sixteenth,  Twen- 
ty-First, Twenty-Third,  and  Twenty- 
Fourth  Wards,  formerly  of  Brigham 
Young  University  Stake. 

El  Paso  Stake:  Carlsbad,  Las  Cruces, 
and  Silver  City  Branches,  formerly  of 
the  Spanish-American  Mission. 

Lethbridge  Stake:  Claresholm  Ward, 
formerly  of  Calgary  Stake. 

Manchester  Stake:  Bradford,  Dews- 
bury,  Halifax,  Huddersfield,  Leeds, 
Liverpool,  Manchester,  Oldham,  and 
Rochdale  Wards;  Radcliffe  and  Wigan 
Branches,  formerly  of  the  British 
Mission. 

Napa  Stake:  Fairfield,  Napa,  Napa 
Second,  Vacaville,  Vallejo  First  and 
Second  Wards;  Sonoma  Branch,  former- 
ly of  Santa  Rosa  Stake. 

Pikes  Peak  Stake:  Colorado  Springs, 
Colorado  Springs  Second,  Pueblo  and 
Pueblo  Second  Wards,  Canon  City, 
La  Junta,  and  Rye  Branches,  fomerly 
of  the  Western  States  Mission. 

Puget  Sound  Stake:  Bremerton,  Brem- 
erton Second,  Chehalis,  Olympia,  Port 
Orchard,  Tacoma  Fourth,  and  Tacoma 
Fifth  Wards;  Poulsbo  and  Shelton 
Branches,  formerly  of  the  Tacoma  Stake. 

Riverton  Stake:  Bluffdale,  Herriman, 
Lark,  Riverton  First,  Second  and  Third 
Wards,  formerly  of  the  West  Jordan 
Stake. 

Santa  Rosa  Stake:  Greenbrae,  Novato, 
and  San  Rafael  Wards,  formerly  of  San 
Francisco  Stake. 

Taber  Stake:  Barnwell,  Taber  First, 
and  Taber  Second  Wards;  Bow  Island, 
and  Grassy  Lake  Branches,  formerly  of 
Lethbridge  Stake;  Rosemary  Ward  and 
Brooks  Branch,  formerly  of  Calgary 
Stake;  Medicine  Hat  Branch,  formerly 
a  branch  in  the  Western  Canadian 
Mission. 

Toronto  Stake:  Hamilton,  Kitchener, 
Oshawa,  St.  Catharines,  Toronto,  and 
Toronto  Second  Wards;  Brantford,  Gait 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  8 

and  Welland  Branches,  formerly  of  the 
Canadian  Mission. 

Tulsa  Stake:  Bartlesville,  Tulsa  and 
Tulsa  Second  Wards;  Coffeyville,  Fort 
Smith,  Gore,  Henryetta,  McAlester, 
Muscogee,  and  Miami  Branches,  former- 
ly of  the  Central  States  Mission. 

WARD  AND  BRANCH  NAME 
CHANGED 

Auckland  Stake:  Temple  View  Sec- 
ond Ward,  formerly  College  Ward. 

Canyon  Rim  Stake:  Highland  View 
Second  Ward,  formerly  Highland  View 
West  Ward. 

Temple  View  Stake:  Lucero  Ward, 
formerly  Mexican  Branch. 

Union  Stake:  Pine  Valley  Branch, 
formerly  Halfway  Branch. 

INDEPENDENT  BRANCHES 
ORGANIZED 

Cheyenne  Stake:  Wheatland  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Torrington  Ward. 

Chicago  Stake:  Elgin  Branch,  form- 
erly a  branch  in  the  Northern  States 
Mission. 

El  Paso  Stake:  Carlsbad,  Las  Cruces, 
and  Silver  City  Branches,  formerly 
branches  in  the  Spanish-American  Mis- 
sion. 

Manchester  Stake:  Radcliffe,  Wigan 
Branches,  formerly  branches  in  the 
British  Mission. 

Mesa  Stake:  Maricopa  Branch,  formed 
by  division  of  Chandler  Second  Ward. 

Orlando  Stake:  St.  Cloud-Kissimmee 
Branch,  formed  by  division  of  Ellsworth 
Ward. 

Pikes  Peak  Stake:  Canon  City,  La 
Junta,  and  Rye  Branches,  formerly 
branches  in  the  Western  States  Mission. 

Richland  Stake:  Milton-Freewater 
Branch,  formed  by  division  of  Walla 
Walla  Ward. 

St.  Johns  Stake:  Sanders  Branch,  form- 
erly a  branch  in  the  Southwest  Indian 
Mission. 

Taber  Stake:  Medicine  Hat  Branch, 
formerly  a  branch  in  the  Western 
Canadian  Mission. 


Second  Day 

Toronto  Stake:  Brantford,  Gait,  and 
Welland  Branches,  formerly  branches 
in  the  Canadian  Mission. 

Tulsa  Stake:  Coffeyville,  Fort  Smith, 
Gore,  Henryetta,  McAlester,  Muskogee, 
and  Miami  Branches,  formerly  branches 
in  the  Central  States  Mission. 

Utah  Stake:  Spanish- American  Branch 
formed  from  various  wards. 

WARDS  AND  INDEPENDENT 
BRANCHES  DISCONTINUED 

Riverside  Stake:  Airport  Ward,  mem- 
bership transferred  to  various  wards. 

Teton  Stake:  Cache  Ward,  member- 
ship transferred  to  Tetonia  Ward. 

THOSE  WHO  HAVE  PASSED  AWAY 

Franklin  S.  Harris,  former  President 
of  the  Brigham  Young  University. 

E.  Allen  Bateman,  State  Superin- 
tendent of  Schools  for  Utah,  and  member 
of  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement 
Association  General  Board. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Henry  D.  Moyle  will  now 
present  the  General  Authorities  and 
General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the 
Church  for  the  sustaining  vote  of  the 
General  Conference  assembled. 

You  will  note  by  the  number  of  stakes 
and  missions  organized  and  in  prepara- 
tion of  organization,  that  the  General 
Authorities  need  more  help,  and  there 
will  be  added  for  your  acceptance  today, 
the  following  Assistants  to  the  Twelve: 

Nathan  Eldon  Tanner,  president  of 
the  Calgary  Stake. 

Franklin  D.  Richards,  of  this  city, 
now  presiding  over  the  Northwestern 
States  Mission. 

Dr.  Theodore  Moyle  Burton,  former 
president  of  the  West  German  Mission, 
now  a  member  of  the  faculty  of  Utah 
State  University.  We  were  unable  to 
consult  you,  Dr.  Chase,  president  of  the 
Utah  State  University,  and  neglected  to 
call  you.  However,  we  shall  get  your 
consent  afterwards  and  watch  your  vote 
today. 


43 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revel  ator,  and  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Henry  D.  Moyle,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Marion  G.  Romney 

Harold  B.  Lee  LeGrand  Richards 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Richard  L.  Evans 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  George  Q.  Morris 

Mark  E.  Petersen  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Delbert  L.  Stapley  Floward  W.  Hunter 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Patriarch 
to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Alma  Sonne  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr. 

El  Ray  L.  Christiansen  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

John  Longden  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner 

Sterling  W.  Sill  Franklin  D.  Richards 

Gordon  B.  Hinckley  Theodore  M.  Burton 

Henry  D.  Taylor 

Trustee-in-Trust 
David  O.  McKay 

As  trustee-in-Trust  for  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Marion  D.  Hanks 

Seymour  Dilworth  Young  Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 

Milton  R.  Hunter 

Presiding  Bishopric 

Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presiding  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  First  Counselor 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
with  A.  William  Lund  and  Preston  Nibley  as  Assistants. 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  8  Second  Day 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Louise  Wallace  Madsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 
David  Lawrence  McKay,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Lynn  S.  Richards,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Joseph  T.  Bentley,  General  Superintendent 
George  Carlos  Smith,  Jr.,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Marvin  J.  Ashton,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Bertha  S.  Reeder,  President 
Emily  H.  Bennett,  First  Counselor 
LaRue  C.  Longden,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Primary  Association 

LaVern  W.  Parmley,  President 
Arta  M.  Hale,  First  Counselor 
Leone  W.  Doxey,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 
Church  Board  of  Education 

David  O.  McKay  Delbert  L.  Stapley 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Marion  G.  Romney 

Henry  D.  Moyle  LeGrand  Richards 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Richard  L.  Evans 

Harold  B.  Lee  George  Q.  Morris 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Howard  W.  Hunter 
Mark  E.  Petersen 

Administrator,  Board  of  Education 

Ernest  L.  Wilkinson 

Church  Finance  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams  Glenn  E.  Nielson 

Harold  H.  Bennett  Weston  E.  Hamilton 

Wilford  G.  Edling 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


45 


Senior  Church  Auditors 

Harold  L.  Davis 
Charles  Schmidt 


CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisers 


Harold  B.  Lee 
Delbert  L.  Stapley 
Marion  G.  Romney 
LeGrand  Richards 
Alma  Sonne 
El  Ray  L.  Christiansen 


John  Longden 
Henry  D.  Taylor 
Antoine  R.  Ivins 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 
Carl  W.  Buehner 


and  the  General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 


General  Church  Welfare  Committee 
Marion  G.  Romney,  Chairman 
Henry  D.  Taylor,  Managing  Director 


Paul  C.  Child 
Mark  B.  Garff 
J.  Leonard  Love 
William  T.  Lawrence 
Lorenzo  H.  Hatch 
Walter  Dansie 


LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 
Walter  Stover 
A.  Lewis  Elggren 
Donald  Ellsworth 
Casper  H.  Parker 


Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Conductor 
Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Conductor 
W.  Jack  Thomas,  Tour  Manager 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 


President  Henry  D.  Moyle: 

President  McKay,  the  voting  seems  to 
have  been  entirely  unanimous  in  the 
affirmative. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Thank  you,  brothers  and  sisters,  for 
this  manifestation  of  your  loyalty.  God 
bless  you  and  all  of  us  as  we  go  for- 
ward in  unity  and  energy  for  the  suc- 


cess of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

I  know  you  will  all  be  pleased  to 
meet  these  new  brethren  whom  we  have 
sustained  as  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church.  President  Tanner,  will  you 
please  come  forward  and  say  a  few 
words,  and  the  other  Brethren  be  on 
hand  to  follow. 

President  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner, 
president  of  the  Calgary  Stake,  Alberta, 
Canada,  a  man  who  has  devoted  his 
life  to  the  Church,  we  welcome  you. 


46 

Saturday,  October  8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Second  Day 


President  McKay  and  brethren  and 
sisters,  I  stand  before  you  this  morning 
in  all  humility.  I  wish  to  express  my 
sincere  appreciation  of  the  confidence 
shown  by  the  General  Authorities,  Pres- 
ident McKay,  and  those  associated  with 
him,  in  calling  one  so  unprepared  to 
hold  such  a  high  office  in  this  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  No  one  with  any  less  ability 
could  be  called  to  this  position.  I  would 
like  to  assure  President  McKay  and 
members  of  the  General  Authorities  and 
you  my  brethren  and  sisters  that  I  shall 
do  my  best  and  am  prepared  to  dedicate 
my  life  and  my  best  to  the  work  of  the 
Lord. 

I  know  that  this  is  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ,  the  kingdom  of  God  here 
upon  the  earth,  and  I  know  that  I  shall 
need  your  faith  and  prayers,  and  I  ask 
that  I  may  have  them,  that  I  may  carry 
on  in  a  way  that  will  become  one  in 
this  responsible  position,  that  I  may  rep- 
resent the  Church  wherever  I  go  in  a 
way  that  will  be  pleasing  to  our  Heav- 
enly Father. 

I  should  like  at  this  time  to  express 
my  sincere  appreciation  to  my  family. 
My  paternal  great-great-grandfather  was 
a  very  close  friend  of  Joseph  the  Prophet. 
And  on  my  mother's  side,  you  have  read 
of  James  Brown  and  his  work,  and 
you  know  Hugh  B.  Brown,  who  is  my 
mother's  brother.  And  I  want  to  thank 
all  of  them,  my  father,  who  was  one 
of  the  finest  men  that  I  ever  knew  and 
my  loving  mother,  and  particularly  I 
should  like  at  this  time  to  express  my 
sincere  and  deep  appreciation  to  Elder 
Hugh  B.  Brown  for  the  influence  that 
he  has  had  on  my  life  since  I  was  a 


child.  I  have  had  that  great  privilege 
of  associating  closely  with  him  through- 
out my  life. 

I  should  like  to  express  my  apprecia- 
tion to  my  wife.  Probably  I  could  let 
you  know  the  kind  of  woman  she  is  by 
quoting  my  mother.  She  said  to  me 
one  day,  "You  are  fortunate,  my  boy,  to 
have  Sarah  as  your  wife.  She  has  been 
a  great  support  to  you  as  a  wife  and  a 
wonderful  mother.  It  is  not  everybody 
that  could  live  with  you  as  she  has  and 
put  up  with  the  things  which  she  has 
to!" 

We  have  five  lovely  daughters,  and 
I  should  like  to  say  to  them  that  I  ap- 
preciate how  loyal  and  faithful  they 
have  been,  how  little  worry  and  concern 
they  have  caused  us  and  how  they  are 
prepared  to  accept  any  call  in  the 
Church. 

Speaking  of  my  family,  I  suppose  I 
should  tell  you  that  we  have  twenty-two 
grandchildren.  I  hope  and  pray  that 
they  will  carry  on  in  the  Church. 

President  McKay,  again  I  wish  to 
thank  you  sincerely  and  those  who  are 
supporting  you  in  this  my  call,  and  again 
I  wish  to  say  that  I  love  the  Lord  with 
all  my  heart,  and  I  pledge  at  this  time 
that  I  will  serve  him  and  you  with  all 
my  might,  mind,  and  strength,  and  I 
pray  for  your  faith  and  prayers  and 
God's  blessings,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Franklin  D.  Richards,  now 
president  of  the  Northwestern  States 
Mission,  grandson  of  Franklin  D.  Rich- 
ards, son  of  Charles  C.  Richards,  will 
now  speak  to  us. 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


What  a  beautiful  song:  "I  Stand  All 
Amazed  at  the  Love  Jesus  Offers  Me!" — 
I  feel  that  way  very  deeply  this  morning, 
my  brothers  and  sisters.  I,  like  Presi- 
dent  Tanner,    feel    appreciative  and 


grateful  for  the  many  blessings  that  have 
been  mine.  I  likewise  appreciate  the 
noble  heritage  with  which  I  have  been 
blessed,  and  I  appreciate  the  wonderful 
family  that  I  have  and  the  devotion 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS 


47 


they  have  to  the  Church  and  particularly 
the  devotion  my  wife  has  shown.  We 
have  enjoyed  the  past  nine  months  in 
the  mission  field,  more  than  any  other 
time  in  our  lives,  and  the  reason  is  that 
we  have  been  serving  the  Lord  to  a 
greater  degree  than  ever  before. 

President  McKay  spoke  yesterday 
about  love  being  the  first  and  second 
great  commandments  of  the  Lord,  that 
we  must  have  this  love  for  our  Father 
in  heaven  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and 
likewise  for  our  brother  and  neighbor. 
I  have  love  in  my  heart  this  morning, 
President  McKay,  for  you  and  for  my 
brethren  that  are  presiding  over  the 
affairs  of  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  I 
have  love  in  my  heart  for  my  fellow 
men.  I  can  truthfully  say  that  I  have 
no  enmity  nor  hatred  toward  any  man, 
and  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  sustain 
me  in  this  position. 

I  feel  wholly  inadequate  as  an  indi- 
vidual; however,  I  feel  the  way  Nephi 
did  when  his  father  Lehi  asked  him  to 
go  and  get  the  plates,  "I  will  go  and 
do  the  things  which  the  Lord  hath  com- 
manded, for  I  know  that  the  Lord  giveth 
no  commandments  unto  the  children  of 
men,  save  he  shall  prepare  a  way  for 
them  that  they  may  accomplish  the  thing 
which  he  commandeth  them."  (1  Nephi 
3:7.) 

I  know  that  through  these  modern 
revelations  and  by  listening  to  the  words 
of  inspiration  and  revelation  given  by 
our  prophets  today,  that  we  do  receive 
great  strength.  I  love  to  read  modern 
revelation,  and  I  love  to  sit  at  the  feet 
of  the  great  men  who  are  presiding  over 
the  affairs  of  this  Church  and  to  learn 
what  we  as  servants  of  the  Lord  should 
do  to  further  God's  work  here  upon  the 
earth. 

President  Moyle  yesterday  quoted  a 
statement  from  the  Book  of  Mormon 
wherein  the  Lord  said  that  "Adam  fell 
that  men  might  be;  and  men  are,  that 
they  might  have  joy."  (2  Nephi  2:25.) 
I  want  to  testify  to  you  that  the  greatest 
joy  that  can  come  into  the  life  of  any 
man  is  to  give  this  "pearl  of  great  price," 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation,  to  others.  That  is 
why  Sister  Richards  and  I  have  been 
having  such  great  joy  this  last  nine 
months,  because  we  have  been  giving 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  others.  We 


are  in  a  new  era  of  growth  and  develop- 
ment in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 
The  kingdom  of  God  is  going  forward 
that  the  kingdom  of  heaven  may  come. 

We  in  the  Northwest  have  been 
blessed  abundantly  because  we  have 
been  active  in  spreading  the  gospel  and 
have  recognized  the  importance  and 
shortness  of  time.  The  Lord  has  blessed 
us  in  many  ways.  First,  by  bringing 
numbers  of  people  together  in  groups 
we  have  been  able  to  teach  the  gospel 
to  more  people.  Secondly,  as  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  have  shared  the 
gospel  with  their  friends,  many  more 
people  have  been  brought  into  the  king- 
dom of  God  than  otherwise  would  have 
been,  and  those  members  of  wards  and 
stakes  and  branches  and  districts  that 
have  shared  the  gospel  have  been  blessed 
abundantly  themselves.  And  thirdly, 
spirituality  in  the  wards  and  branches 
has  increased;  the  inactive  have  become 
active;  and  the  people  are  happy  and 
are  having  great  joy;  and  this  is  as  it 
should  be. 

Many  have  said,  "How  do  you  find 
these  people  that  are  interested  in  know- 
ing about  the  gospel?"  We  have  asked 
the  people  of  the  Northwest  to  ask  their 
neighbors  every  day,  "What  do  you 
know  about  the  Mormon  Church?"  And 
whatever  their  answer  may  be,  our  next 
question  is,  "Would  you  like  to  know 
more?"  Our  missionaries  are  busy 
teaching  in  groups  those  that  would  like 
to  know  more,  and  they  are  so  busy  that 
they  are  obliged  to  use  automobiles  and 
do  practically  all  of  their  proselyting 
and  arranging  meetings  over  the  tele- 
phone. The  Lord  is  greatly  blessing  the 
missionaries  and  the  Saints  in  the  North- 
west area,  and  the  gospel  is  going  for- 
ward by  leaps  and  bounds  as  it  is  in 
practically  every  other  area  of  the  world. 

I  am  grateful  to  my  Father  in  heaven 
that  among  my  other  blessings  I  have 
the  opportunity  of  spending  my  time 
and  energy  in  his  service.  I  pledge  all 
of  my  efforts,  President  McKay,  to  the 
Church  and  to  you  as  prophet,  seer,  and 
revel  ator,  and  to  the  spreading  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  In  concluding  I 
would  like  to  read  from  one  of  the 
modern  prophets,  President  Heber  J. 
Grant.    He  said: 

"The  most  glorious  thing  that  has  ever 
happened  in  the  history  of  the  world 


48  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  8 

since  the  Savior  himself  lived  on  the 
earth  is  that  God  himself  saw  fit  to  visit 
the  earth  with  his  beloved,  Only  Be- 
gotten Son,  our  Redeemer  and  Savior, 
and  to  appear  to  the  boy  Joseph."  (Gos- 
pel Standards,  p.  16.)  And  it  is  our  duty 
above  all  others  to  go  forth  at  home  and 
abroad  and  proclaim  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  know  that  in  order 
to  do  this  we  must  live  close  to  the  Lord. 

President  McKay  together  with  Presi- 
dent Clark  and  President  Moyle  in  the 
beautiful  blessing  that  they  gave  me 
when  they  set  me  apart  as  president  of 
the  Northwestern  States  Mission  told 
me  to  live  close  to  the  Lord  and  listen 
to  his  whisperings  and  have  the  courage 
to  execute  them.  When  Brother  and 
Sister  Lee  were  in  our  mission  field  this 
last  summer,  they  brought  many  bless- 
ings to  the  Saints  and  the  missionaries, 
and  already  we  have  seen  many  join 
the  Church  who  listened  to  their  words. 
Likewise  Brother  and  Sister  Lee  im- 
pressed upon  us  that  we  should  not  be 
too  busy  taking  care  of  details  and 
mechanics  to  listen  to  the  whisperings 
of  the  Spirit. 

I  testify  to  you  my  brothers  and  sisters 


Second  Day 

that  the  greatest  message  that  we  have  is 
that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been 
restored,  the  power  of  God  unto  salva- 
tion. I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  I  know  that  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  is  indeed  his  Son,  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world,  and  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God — one  of  the 
greatest  prophets  that  has  lived  on  this 
earth,  according  to  the  word  of  the  Lord 
contained  in  our  holy  book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants.  (See  D&C  135:3.)  I 
know  that  David  O.  McKay  is  the 
prophet  of  the  Lord  today,  and  I  know 
that  we  need  a  prophet  on  the  earth 
today.  I  propose  to  sustain  President 
McKay  with  all  of  my  might  and 
strength.  I  say  this  and  dedicate  myself 
unto  the  Church,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  will  now  hear  from  Elder  Theo- 
dore M.  Burton,  formerly  president  ot 
the  West  German  Mission,  at  present 
at  the  Utah  State  University — we  shall 
make  such  arrangements  as  are  neces- 
sary. 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay,  President  Clark,  if  he 
were  here,  President  Moyle,  members 
of  the  General  Authorities,  my  dear 
brothers  and  sisters,  this  is  a  humbling 
experience. 

When  President  McKay  called  me  this 
morning  into  his  office  and  asked  me 
how  I  felt,  I  told  him  I  was  frightened. 
I  am  frightened,  but  only  to  this  extent — 
frightened  that  I  might  not  measure  up 
to  the  responsibility  that  has  been  given 
me.  President  McKay  told  me  that  my 
responsibility  would  be  to  principally 
bear  witness  to  the  divinity  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  this  I  can  do  from  the  bottom 
of  my  heart.  I  do  know  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ.  I  have  covenanted  with  him 
to  be  his  son.  I  have  covenanted  to 
bear  that  name,  and  I  pray  that  I  might 
always  bear  it  honorably,  that  I  might 
never  do  anything  to  bring  dishonor 
to  that  glorious  name. 

I  have  wondered  since  the  call  was 


given  me  why  I  was  called  to  this  posi- 
tion. I  do  not  stand  here  alone.  This 
call  has  come  to  a  great  many  people, 
people  who  have  influenced  my  life, 
even  before  I  was  born.  As  the  other 
brethren  have  said,  I,  too,  come  from  a 
long  line  of  forebears  who  bore  responsi- 
ble positions  in  this  Church.  My  great- 
grandfather Burton  was  a  member  of 
the  Church  and  came  into  the  Church 
with  his  wife  and  one  of  his  daughters. 
My  grandfather  Burton  was  a  young 
man  only  fifteen  years  of  age,  who  had 
heard  about  the  Mormons  in  Canada, 
and  he  said  that  he  would  disown  his 
parents  if  they  joined  the  Church.  So 
he  left  them  and  went  down  into  Ohio, 
and  there  the  missionaries  contacted 
him  and  brought  him  into  the  Church. 
He  then  went  back,  and  on  his  knees 
apologized  to  his  father  and  mother  for 
his  lack  of  insight,  for  his  lack  of  under- 
standing, and  asked  their  forgiveness. 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 


49 


Grandfather  Burton  came  here  with 
some  of  the  very  earliest  pioneers  as  a 
bugler  to  Brigham  Young,  and  he  be- 
came one  of  Brigham  Young's  constant 
companions,  along  with  Brother  Lot 
Smith  and  Brother  Porter  Rockwell.  I 
have  read  Grandfather's  journals;  I 
know  how  devoted  he  was  to  the 
Church.  He  was  a  member  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  for  many,  many 
years. 

He  married  my  grandmother,  whose 
maiden  name  was  Garr.  The  Garrs, 
too,  are  wonderful  people  of  whom  I 
am  very  proud.  They  were  among  the 
very  first  who  came  into  the  Church, 
and  Great-grandfather  Fielding  Garr 
was  one  of  those  seven  men  chosen  to 
perform  that  very  special  burial  mission 
when  the  Prophet  was  assassinated,  so  I 
have  been  told.  Grandmother  walked 
across  the  plains  as  a  young  girl  eight 
years  of  age,  and  said  how  happy  she 
was  when  she  got  a  thorn  in  her  foot 
because  that  was  the  only  time  she  was 
able  to  ride  on  the  tailgate  of  the  wagon 
until  they  got  the  thorn  out  of  her  foot. 
So  she  was  one  of  those  early  pioneers 
who  helped  establish  and  build  this 
country. 

The  Moyles  have  been  in  the  Church 
for  many  years.  My  mother  was  Flor- 
ence Moyle.  I  am  proud  of  the  Moyles. 
Great-grandfather  Moyle  and  Grand- 
father Moyle  helped  build  the  Salt  Lake 
Temple,  and  when  you  see  the  carving 
on  the  east  side  of  the  temple,  "Holiness 
to  the  Lord,"  Great-grandfather  did  that 
as  a  missionary  called  to  work  on  the 
temple. 

I  am  proud  of  the  Cannels.  They, 
too,  came  into  the  Church  early.  Great- 
grandfather came  here  to  Utah  to  protect 
his  daughter  from  the  Mormons,  and 
when  he  got  here  he  joined  the  Church 
and  was  grateful  that  his  daughter  found 
such  an  outstanding  man  as  Grand- 
father James  Moyle. 

So  I  am  proud  of  all  of  these  people 
who  have  made  it  possible  for  me  to 
be  here.  I  am  grateful  to  my  Sunday 
School  teachers.  I  am  grateful  to  my 
Primary  teachers.  In  my  day  we  had 
Religion  Class.  I  am  grateful  to  those 
sisters  who  labored  with  us  when  we 
caused  them  many  hours  of  trouble  and 
concern,  I  am  sure,  but  they  taught  me 


the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  which 
I  will  always  be  grateful. 

I  came  of  goodly  parents.  My  father 
and  mother  are  people  of  whom  I  am 
very  proud.  I  am  grateful  for  the  asso- 
ciation I  have  had  with  my  wife.  She, 
too,  comes  from  a  long  line  of  people 
who  have  been  in  this  Church  for  many 
generations.  Her  father,  who  is  still 
living,  over  ninety  years  of  age,  is  still 
president  of  his  high  priests  quorum. 
I  am  grateful  to  her,  for  she  has  stood 
by  me  from  the  time  we  were  married 
and  has  been  loyal  and  faithful  in 
every  respect. 

I  am  proud  of  my  son.  I  only  have 
one  son,  and  so  I  have  to  make  up  in 
quality  what  I  lack  in  quantity.  I  am 
proud  of  him.  When  my  great-uncle 
Henry  Moyle  was  patriarch  of  Alpine 
Stake,  he  gave  me  my  patriarchal  bless- 
ing. He  told  me  that  we  would  have 
responsibilities  to  take  upon  us.  He 
told  me  that  my  children  would  have  to 
bear  part  of  that  responsibility,  too.  So 
I  pray  that  my  son  will  live  close  to  the 
Lord  and  be  able  to  accept  his  share 
of  responsibility  when  that  comes. 

I  have  just  returned  from  the  West 
German  Mission,  and  I  bring  you  all 
the  love  of  those  wonderful  people.  I 
have  spent  just  about  one-fifth  of  my 
life  among  German-speaking  people.  I 
love  the  Swiss  people;  I  love  the  Austrian 
people;  I  love  those  German  people  with 
whom  I  have  been  working.  They  are 
simply  marvelous  Saints,  strong  and 
stalwart,  loyal  and  true,  and  they  are 
about  to  strengthen  the  Church  in  that 
mighty  nation  so  that  we  will  have 
stakes  of  Zion  there,  too.  I  am  hoping 
and  praying  that  I  shall  also  be  present 
when  that  glorious  day  comes,  when 
we  can  establish  on  the  continent  of 
Europe,  among  foreign-speaking  peo- 
ples, stakes  of  Zion.  I  know  that  their 
hearts  are  filled  with  love  of  God  as 
yours  are,  and  I  bring  you  their  greet- 
ings and  their  love,  and  I  am  proud  to 
be  associated  with  a  Church  so  inter- 
national in  its  character  that  we  can 
love  people  regardless  of  what  language 
they  speak,  what  color  they  may  be, 
or  what  nation  they  represent.  We 
have  covenanted  to  be  brothers  and 
sisters,  and  this  love  that  was  spoken 


50 

Saturday,  October  8 

of  before  is  the  love  that  exists  in  this 
Church  today. 

Without  multiplying  words,  then, 
President  McKay,  I  accept  this  calling 
with  humility  and  pray  for  your  help 
and  for  your  instruction. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  will  rise  and 
do  better  than  my  best,  because  I  know 
that  I  have  been  called  to  this  position 
by  a  Prophet  of  God  who  speaks  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  bear  you  my 
testimony  that  he  is  a  prophet  of  God. 
I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  Joseph 
Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God.  I  bear  you 
my  testimony  that  these  men  with  whom 
I  have  associated  in  the  mission  field, 
and  these  authorities  who  are  sitting 
before  you  today,  are  prophets,  seers, 
and  revelators,  for  I  have  seen  prophecies 
fulfilled  that  they  have  made.  I  bear 
testimony  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that 
this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  pos- 
sessing all  the  authority  that  is  necessary 
to  establish  and  maintain  it  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth  today.  I  know  it  will 
grow  until  all  people  can  recognize  and 
bow  their  knee  and  confess  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  and  that  his  kingdom  is 
upon  the  earth.  This  testimony  I  give 
you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  know,  President  Chase,  of  the 
position  Dr.  Burton  holds  in  the  Utah 
State  University.  He  will  be  true  to  the 
agreements  made,  but  we  shall  appre- 
ciate your  cooperation. 

The  combined  choral  groups  and 
congregation  will  now  sing,  "Now  Let 
Us  Rejoice  in  the  Day  of  Salvation," 
conducted  by  Professor  David  A.  Shand. 
After  the  singing,  President  Joseph  Field- 
ing Smith  will  address  us. 

The  Combined  Choral  Groups  and 
the  congregation  joined  in  singing  the 
hymn,  "Now  Let  Us  Rejoice  In  The 
Day  of  Salvation." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

I  announced  yesterday  that  President 
Ernest  Wilkinson  was  excused  to  attend 
a  convention  in  the  East.  I  am  pleased 
to  note  his  presence  this  morning. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now  speak 
to  us,  and  he  will  be  followed  by  Bishop 
Carl  W.  Buehner  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  wish  to  read  a  part  of  the  instruction 
given  by  our  Redeemer  to  his  disciples 
on  this  continent  just  before  he  left 
them. 

"And  my  Father  sent  me  that  I  might 
be  lifted  up  upon  the  cross;  and  after 
that  I  had  been  lifted  up  upon  the  cross, 
that  I  might  draw  all  men  unto  me,  that 
as  I  have  been  lifted  up  by  men  even  so 
should  men  be  lifted  up  by  the  Father, 
to  stand  before  me,  to  be  judged  of 
their  works,  whether  they  be  good  or 
whether  they  be  evil — 

"And  for  this  cause  have  I  been  lifted 
up;  therefore,  according  to  the  power 
of  the  Father  I  will  draw  all  men  unto 
me,  that  they  may  be  judged  according 
to  their  works. 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  whoso 
repenteth  and  is  baptized  in  my  name 
shall  be  filled;  and  if  he  endureth  to  the 


end,  behold,  him  will  I  hold  guiltless 
before  my  Father  at  that  day  when  I 
shall  stand  to  judge  the  world. 

"And  he  that  endureth  not  unto  the 
end,  the  same  is  he  that  is  also  hewn 
down  and  cast  into  the  fire,  from  whence 
they  can  no  more  return,  because  of  the 
justice  of  the  Father. 

"And  this  is  the  word  which  he  hath 
given  unto  the  children  of  men.  And 
for  this  cause  he  fulfilleth  the  words 
which  he  hath  given,  and  he  lieth  not, 
but  fulfilleth  all  his  words. 

"And  no  unclean  thing  can  enter  into 
his  kingdom;  therefore  nothing  entereth 
into  his  rest  save  it  be  those  who  have 
washed  their  garments  in  my  blood, 
because  of  their  faith,  and  the  repentance 
of  all  their  sins,  and  their  faithfulness 
unto  the  end. 

"Now  this  is  the  commandment:  Re- 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


51 


pent,  all  ye  ends  of  the  earth,  and  come 
unto  me  and  be  baptized  in  my  name, 
that  ye  may  be  sanctified  by  the  recep- 
tion of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  ye  may 
stand  spotless  before  me  at  the  last  day." 
(3  Nephi  27:14-20.) 

I  know  of  nothing  that  is  more  im- 
portant or  necessary  at  this  time  than 
to  cry  repentance,  even  among  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  and  I  call  upon  them  as 
well  as  upon  those  who  are  not  members 
of  the  Church,  to  heed  these  words  of 
our  Redeemer.  Now  he  has  stated 
definitely  that  no  unclean  thing  can 
enter  his  presence.  Only  those  who 
prove  themselves  faithful  and  have 
washed  their  garments  in  his  blood 
through  their  faith  and  their  repentance 
— none  others  shall  find  the  kingdom  of 
God. 

We  have  inducements,  enticing  fea- 
tures come  before  us  through  the  press, 
by  television  particularly,  and  in  other 
ways  to  lead  our  people  and  all  other 
people  astray  and  away  from  keeping 
the  commandments  of  God.  I  want  to 
raise  a  warning  voice  to  the  members 
of  the  Church,  and  especially  to  the 
youth  of  the  Church.  Do  not  pay  heed 
to  the  wicked  and  malicious  advertising 
of  tobacco  nor  of  liquor.  The  advertis- 
ing of  tobacco  today  is  one  of  the  greatest 
offenses  and  crimes  before  our  Father 
in  heaven,  and  those  who  are  guilty  of 
it  will  one  day  have  to  pay  the  price. 
They  do  it  now  because  of  greed,  but 
we  must  not  listen  to  these  enticings 
and  to  the  wicked  advertising  of  things 
that  are  detrimental  to  the  body  and 
condemned  by  our  Father  in  heaven 
and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  contrary  to 
the  gospel  they  have  given  to  us. 

Now,  we  have  those  who  are  among 
us  who  are  inclined  to  listen  to  these 
pleadings  and  to  the  entertainments  that 
are  given,  all  of  which  are  intended  to 
lead  us  into  forbidden  fields,  to  partake 
of  things  condemned  by  the  Lord,  and 
which  are  not  for  those  who  have  made 


covenant  with  him  to  keep  his  com- 
mandments. 

I  am  going  to  spend  a  minute  or  two 
particularly  relative  to  this  filthy  tobacco 
habit.  I  believe  that  some  of  the  women 
of  this  country  are  getting  to  be  worse 
than  the  men,  and  those  who  advertise 
are  seeking  to  influence  the  women — the 
mothers  of  the  children.  As  I  ride  through 
the  streets  here  of  Salt  Lake  City  in 
an  automobile,  I  sometimes  see  women 
on  nearly  every  street  corner  or  between 
the  blocks  with  cigarets  in  their  mouths 
— three  or  four  women  to  every  man.  I 
fear  some  of  them  are  members  of  the 
Church.  We  cannot  afford  to  turn  either 
to  the  right  nor  to  the  left  from  the 
keeping  of  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord  if  we  want  to  enter  into  his 
kingdom. 

Our  bodies  must  be  clean.  Our 
thinking  must  be  clean.  We  must  have 
in  our  hearts  the  desire  to  serve  the 
Lord  and  keep  his  commandments;  to  re- 
member our  prayers,  and  in  humility 
seek  the  counsels  that  come  through  the 
guidance  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  That 
will  bring  to  us  our  salvation,  and  we 
will  never  get  salvation  through  the 
violation  of  the  covenants  and  com- 
mandments which  will  bring  to  us 
eternal  life. 

There  is  not  time  for  me  to  say  more 
than  this.  These  few  remarks  will  have 
to  do.  I  have  a  great  deal  in  my  mind, 
but  I  can  carry  those  things  to  the  stake 
conferences. 

The  Lord  bless  you  all,  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
President  of  the  Quorum  of  Twelve  Apos- 
tles, has  just  concluded  speaking.  We 
shall  now  hear  from  Bishop  Carl  W. 
Buehner,  a  member  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy. 


52 

Saturday,  October  8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


Second  Day 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  this  to 
me  has  been  a  very  stirring  session  of 
conference.  We  have  heard  the  vital 
statistics  of  the  Church,  and  we  have 
sustained  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church.  From  among  the  priesthood 
have  also  been  chosen  three  devoted  and 
humble  men  to  take  a  place  with  the 
other  General  Authorities  of  the  Church. 
I  know  each  of  them  well.  They  have 
given  dedicated  service  to  the  work  of 
the  Lord,  and  with  all  my  heart  I  can 
say  to  them  that  their  joy  will  be  even 
greater  as  they  travel  among  the  people 
of  the  Church. 

I  am  always  thrilled  to  participate 
with  you  in  one  of  these  great  general 
conferences  of  the  Church.  I  keenly 
feel,  however,  that  even  though  con- 
ference time  is  a  wonderful  time,  it  is 
even  more  wonderful  for  those  who 
have  already  spoken. 

Let  me  tell  you  a  couple  of  little 
stories  that  I  think  you  may  appreciate. 
I  heard  one  of  our  fine  sisters  bear  her 
testimony  in  fast  meeting  not  long  ago 
and  express  her  gratitude  for  four  won- 
derful little  boys  that  had  been  born 
into  their  home.  The  parents  loved 
these  four  little  youngsters  immensely. 
Word  came  that  they  were  going  to  have 
another  little  arrival  in  the  home,  and 
the  family  all  decided  that  the  fifth 
should  be  a  little  girl.  They  pleaded 
with  our  Heavenly  Father  that  this 
might  be  the  case.  He  heard  the  plea 
of  the  family,  and  when  the  baby  was 
born,  it  was  a  girl.  This  little  girl 
grew  up  in  this  home,  knowing  how 
much  she  was  wanted  and  appreciated. 
She  seemed  very  much  loved  by  the 
four  little  boys,  the  father  and  the 
mother.  Each  poured  out  his  affections 
upon  her.  She  grew  up  in  this  at- 
mosphere, knowing  she  was  very  im- 
portant and  very  much  wanted  in  the 
home.  When  she  was  somewhere 
between  four  and  five  years  of  age,  and 
while  she  was  in  the  midst  of  her  family 
and  feeling  very  happy  about  her  home 
and  her  little  brothers,  she  said,  "Mother, 
I'll  bet  you  were  really  surprised  when 
you  found  out  I  was  a  Mormon,  too." 

In  the  sight  of  our  Heavenly  Father, 


every  one  of  us  is  a  very  important 
person.  I  wish  we  could  always  re- 
member this  and  realize  how  much  we 
are  loved  by  him  and  reciprocate  that 
love  by  living  close  to  his  teachings. 

The  other  little  story  I  should  like  to 
tell  emanated  from  the  Primary  Chil- 
dren's Hospital.  This  is  one  of  the 
great  institutions  we  have  in  the  Church. 
Those  of  you  who  have  been  there  know 
something  about  its  little  patients,  some 
of  whom  are  there  for  an  extended  period 
of  time,  even  flat  on  their  backs  on  their 
little  beds,  and  some  more  fortunate 
are  in  wheelchairs.  Very  few  can  get 
around  on  their  own.  I  have  never  been 
in  a  place  where  there  are  happier 
patients  than  those  in  our  Primary 
Children's  Hospital.  Employed  there  as 
a  nurse  is  a  very  lovely  woman  who  lost 
her  husband  and  who  has  a  family  of 
her  own  to  raise.  The  oldest  boy  of 
this  woman  was  old  enough  to  receive 
a  call  to  go  on  a  mission.  The  children 
in  the  hospital,  most  of  whom  have  so 
little,  had  such  a  love  and  devotion  for 
their  nurse,  whose  son  was  now  going 
into  the  mission  field,  that  they  sent  a 
little  Indian  boy,  who  had  a  broken 
leg,  but  who  could  get  around  with 
crutches,  to  solicit  a  contribution  from 
these  little  patients.  You  understand 
they  have  very  little,  many  of  them 
being  there  as  Church-service  cases.  I 
understood  they  practically  cleaned  out 
all  of  the  assets  of  these  children  and 
gathered  up  a  total  of  $6.68.  This  was 
presented  to  the  missionary  as  their 
appreciation  for  his  wonderful  mother 
who  was  their  nurse  and  to  help  the 
great  missionary  program  move  forward. 

We  are  asked  to  give  two  or  three 
pennies  for  each  year  of  our  age  an- 
nually to  help  this  institution.  As  you 
catch  the  spirit  of  these  children,  you 
often  wish  you  were  a  thousand  years 
old  when  they  come  to  collect  these 
pennies.  I  have  frequently  said,  "God 
bless  the  Primary  and  their  hospital 
for  what  they  are  doing  to  bless  our 
children!" 

May  I  say  just  a  word  about  a  lovely 
experience  I  enjoyed  in  being  able  to 
go  back  to  the  land  of  my  birth  after 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 


53 


an  absence  of  about  sixty  years  and  to 
visit  the  city  where  I  was  bom.  I  had 
the  opportunity  of  bearing  my  testi- 
mony at  a  district  conference  in  Stutt- 
gart, Germany.  I  saw  a  little  building 
which  more  than  sixty  years  ago  housed 
the  Stuttgart  Branch.  Meetings  are  not 
held  here  any  more.  They  have  a 
beautiful  chapel  of  their  own.  It  was 
in  this  little  branch  chapel  that  I  re- 
ceived a  name  and  a  blessing.  In  the 
areas  close  to  Stuttgart,  I  saw  the  little 
villages  in  which  my  father  and  mother 
were  born.  They  later  moved  to  Stutt- 
gart and  were  there  married.  This  is 
where  the  missionaries  found  them  and 
taught  them  the  gospel. 

I  was  also  made  very  much  aware  of 
the  fact  that  Stuttgart  today  is  almost 
a  new  city.  I  was  told  that  about  seventy 
percent  of  the  original  city  had  been 
bombed  out  during  the  war.  The  scars 
of  war  are  still  evident,  as  you  see  large 
buildings  with  no  windows,  no  doors, 
the  roofs  demolished,  and  parts  of  the 
walls  destroyed.  Many  new  buildings 
have  been  erected. 

I  began  thinking  of  my  own  situation 
and  giving  credit  to  the  great  missionary 
program  for  my  many  blessings.  The 
scripture  in  Jeremiah  3:14  says,  ".  .  .  and 
I  will  take  you  one  of  a  city,  and  two 
of  a  family,  and  bring  you  to  Zion." 
I  wondered  why  my  father  and  my 
mother  were  those  who  were  gathered 
two  from  a  family.  This  has  caused 
many  serious  reflections.  I  was  just  at 
the  age  when  I  might  have  been  in- 
volved with  the  two  world  wars  that 
were  fought  in  that  land.  The  destruc- 
tion of  property  and  the  millions  of 
people  who  lost  their  lives  might  just 
as  well  have  included  the  Buehner 
family. 

I  do  not  know  whether  my  parents 
responded  the  first  time  the  missionaries 
knocked  on  their  door  or  the  second  time 
or  the  third  time.  I  am  grateful,  how- 
ever, that  the  missionaries  knocked  on 
the  door  of  my  parents  sufficient  times 
to  convince  them  that  they  had  the  great 
message  of  the  age  to  give  to  them,  the 
story  that  God  had  spoken  again  in  this 
day  to  the  boy  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
and  through  him  restored  the  gospel. 
To  me  there  is  nothing  more  important 
or  nothing  greater.  I  appreciate  so  much 
that  my  parents  accepted  the  gospel  and 


that  like  thousands  of  others  had  the 
desire  of  coming  to  this  great  land  of 
America. 

I  also  enjoyed  the  privilege  of  going 
into  Berlin.  Berlin,  once  a  very  proud 
and  beautiful  city,  is  now  a  divided  city. 
I  saw  what  happens  when  a  city  and  a 
people  are  divided.  West  Berlin  is  a 
little  island  in  Russian  territory.  There 
is  one  highway  110  miles  long  on  which 
supplies  are  taken  to  West  Berlin  by 
truck  and  car,  and  there  is  also  a  twenty- 
mile  wide  air  strip  permitting  planes  to 
fly  in  and  out  of  the  city.  When  an 
airplane  for  any  reason  gets  out  of  the 
twenty-mile  allowed  zone,  it  is  over 
Russian  territory. 

I  admire  the  faith  and  stability  of  the 
wonderful  members  of  the  Church  we 
have  behind  the  Iron  Curtain.  After 
hearing  the  president  of  the  East  German 
Mission  relate  a  number  of  spine-tingling 
experiences,  I  could  not  help  thinking 
how  grateful  many  people  must  be  that 
the  gospel  touched  their  lives  and 
brought  them  away  from  situations  such 
as  those  being  endured  by  members 
living  in  this  condition. 

I  learned  that  in  the  Russian  schools 
behind  the  Iron  Curtain,  children  are 
taught  that  there  is  no  such  thing  as  a 
God,  that  everything  is  material  and 
force.  These  children  come  home  and 
challenge  their  parents  and  say,  "Why 
don't  you  get  up  to  date?  In  school  we 
hear  every  day  that  there  is  no  such 
thing  as  God,  and  yet  you  have  us  kneel 
down  and  pray  each  night  and  morning 
and  ask  our  Heavenly  Father  to  bless 
and  watch  over  us.  How  can  this  be 
when  there  is  no  God?"  Because  of 
such  a  reaction,  many  persons  have 
escaped  to  the  West  Zone.  President 
Fetzer  indicated  that  there  are  strong 
and  devoted  members  behind  the  Iron 
Curtain  in  almost  sufficient  numbers  to 
organize  a  stake  there.  Of  course,  such 
a  stake  can  never  be  organized  under 
these  circumstances.  I  feel  to  say,  "God 
bless  those  wonderful  people  there." 

As  we  drove  into  areas  in  East  Berlin, 
I  observed  the  great  industrial  area  of 
that  city,  silent  and  unproductive.  There 
was  no  smoke  coming  from  the  large 
smokestacks.  There  seemed  to  be  no 
activity  of  any  kind.  I  had  a  feeling, 
without  having  had  the  privilege  of 
going   into  these   buildings   or  even 


54 

Saturday,  October  8 

through  this  area,  that  the  machinery 
had  all  been  dismantled  and  taken  into 
Russian  territory.  I  do  not  know  what 
the  future  is  for  this  city,  but  after 
carefully  viewing  the  situation,  I  hope 
the  day  comes  when  Berlin  can  again  be 
reunited  as  a  proud  and  noble  city  and 
reunite  the  German-speaking  people. 

In  London  our  guide  referred  to  these 
areas  that  had  been  bombed  out  as 
"blitzed."  As  we  drove  through  the  city, 
every  few  miles  he  would  say,  "Here  is 
another  area  that  was  'blitzed'  during 
the  war." 

All  over  Europe  a  tremendous  con- 
struction program  is  underway.  People 
seem  happy.  They  seem  well-dressed 
and  even  prosperous.  They  do  not  have 
enough  money  to  buy  automobiles  or  to 
purchase  electrical  appliances,  but  there 
is  full  employment,  and  everyone  seems 
to  be  able  to  live  fairly  well. 

I  was  thrilled,  as  others  have  already 
reported,  at  the  tremendous  progress  mis- 
sionary work  is  making  in  these  Euro- 
pean countries.  You  have  already  heard 
what  is  happening  in  England — I  sup- 
pose probably  the  greatest  activity  since 
that  reported  in  the  very  early  days  of 
the  Church  when  Wilford  Woodruff, 
Heber  C.  Kimball  and  others  served  as 
missionaries. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

I  shall  always  be  grateful  for  what  this 
missionary  program  has  done  for  us 
and  our  family.  Our  own  family  has 
been  an  example  of  what  happens  to 
those  being  gathered  one  of  a  city  and 
two  of  a  family.  Even  though  my  par- 
ents have  been  dead  for  twenty-five 
years,  there  are  practically  a  hundred  of 
us  now  because  of  the  two  that  were 
gathered  more  than  sixty  years  ago.  At 
the  rate  we  are  growing,  in  a  few  more 
generations,  we  will  have  a  small  city 
of  our  own. 

It  is  always  wonderful  to  meet  with 
you  in  conference.  I  bear  you  my  testi- 
mony to  the  divinity  of  this  great  latter- 
day  work  and  want  to  tell  you  that  I 
find  great  joy  in  the  service  of  the 
Master.  I  rededicate  my  life  to  his  serv- 
ice and  to  help  further  the  purposes  of 
the  Almighty.  I  do  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  has  just  addressed  us. 
We  will  now  hear  from  Elder  Bruce  R. 
McConkie  of  the  First  Council  of  the 
Seventy. 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


We  in  this  Church  have  a  solemn 
obligation  to  carry  the  message  of  sal- 
vation to  our  Father's  other  children  in 
the  world.  To  us  the  Lord  has  given 
this  command:  "Go  ye  into  all  the 
world,  preach  the  gospel  to  every  crea- 
ture, .  .  ."  (D&C  68:8.) 

This  call  to  missionary  service  does 
not  leave  us  any  choice  or  option  as  to 
the  course  we  should  pursue.  It  is  not 
merely  a  permissive  invitation  which 
allows  us  to  spread  the  gospel  message 
on  a  voluntary  basis,  or  if  we  find  it 
convenient  to  do  so.  The  decree  is  man- 
datory. We  have  no  choice  about  it,  if 
we  are  to  retain  the  favor  of  God.  The 
Lord  has  laid  upon  our  shoulders  the 
obligation  to  spread  the  gospel,  to  raise 
the  warning  voice,  to  gather  in  the  lost 
sheep  of  the  house  of  Israel.  If  we  neg- 


lect to  do  so,  we  have  violated  our  trust 
and  failed  to  comply  with  a  divine 
directive. 

When  we  come  into  the  Church,  we 
covenant  in  the  waters  of  baptism  that 
we  will  do  missionary  work.  We  enter 
into  a  solemn  contract  with  Deity  that 
we  will  bear  testimony  of  the  restora- 
tion of  the  gospel  on  every  appropriate 
occasion.  We  agree  "to  stand  as  wit- 
nesses of  God  at  all  times  and  in  all 
things,  and  in  all  places"  that  we  "may 
be  in,  even  until  death."  (Mosiah  18:9.) 
We  are  also  bound  by  the  command 
that  the  Lord  has  given  by  revelation 
in  this  day,  that  "it  becometh  every 
man  who  hath  been  warned  to  warn 
his  neighbor."  (D&C  88:81.)  Thus  we 
have  an  affirmative,  positive,  definite 
obligation  resting  upon  us  to  do  mis- 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKlE 


55 


sionary  work.  This  matter  of  carrying 
the  gospel  message  to  the  world  is  not 
something  that  we  can  choose  to  do  or 
not,  if  and  when  we  may  find  it  to  be 
convenient.  We  are  under  covenant  to 
do  it  "at  all  times  .  .  .  and  in  all  places 
.  .  .  even  until  death."  (Mosiah  18:9.) 

We  are  indebted,  each  of  us  individ- 
ually, to  the  missionaries  who  brought 
the  gospel  to  us  or  to  our  ancestors; 
many  of  us  owe  these  missionaries  more 
than  we  owe  anyone  else.  We  received 
from  them  the  pearl  of  great  price.  We 
have  an  obligation  to  discharge  our  debt, 
and  one  of  the  very  best  ways  in  which 
we  can  do  this  is  to  go  forth  ourselves 
as  missionaries,  or  otherwise  to  use  our 
talents  and  our  means  to  see  that  others 
of  our  Father's  children  have  the  oppor- 
tunity to  receive  that  which  has  been 
restored  in  this  day. 

The  Lord  has  decreed  that  this  gospel, 
which  has  come  forth  through  the  in- 
strumentality of  Joseph  Smith  and  others, 
is  the  very  gospel  that  is  going  to  be 
preached  in  all  the  nations  of  the  earth 
as  a  witness  before  the  Second  Coming 
of  the  Son  of  Man.  (D&C  133:36-40.) 
Since  we  are  the  ones  who  have  this 
true  gospel,  we  alone  can  carry  it  to  the 
world.  To  carry  out  this  command  to 
preach  this  restored  gospel  in  all  the 
world,  every  one  of  us  should  be  mis- 
sionaries every  day  and  hour  of  our 
lives,  at  all  times  and  in  all  places  and 
under  all  circumstances.  We  do  not 
need  any  particular  call  or  any  special 
setting  apart;  we  have  already  assumed 
the  obligation  in  the  waters  of  baptism 
to  take  every  honorable  opportunity  to 
tell  other  people  about  the  glories  and 
beauties  of  the  gospel.  And  there  is  not 
anything  in  this  world  that  in  any  way 
compares  in  importance  with  the  gospel. 

May  I  make  two  specific  suggestions 
which  if  adhered  to  and  followed  will 
very  measurably  train  and  prepare  the 
young  people  of  this  Church  to  go  out 
and  discharge  their  obligations,  to  bear 
the  missionary  burden,  to  do  the  thing 
that  they  are  expected  to  do  by  virtue 
of  Church  membership. 

We  do  our  missionary  work,  all  of  us 
as  individuals,  by  telling  other  people 
about  the  Church  and  the  saving  truths 
which  have  been  revealed  to  it.  But  we 
have  also  the  great  organized  missionary 
ventures  of  the  Church.  We  have  stake 


missions  and  foreign  missions,  and  we 
would  like  to  see  every  worthy  and 
qualified  young  man  in  the  Church  go 
out  in  the  foreign  missionary  service. 
We  have  some  eight  thousand  of  them 
out  now,  and  this,  incidentally,  is  one 
of  the  great  evidences  of  the  divinity  of 
the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged. 
There  is  no  other  organization  of  any 
kind  that  does  or  could  do  what  we  do 
in  the  missionary  cause — call  thousands 
and  tens  of  thousands  of  people  to  leave 
their  employment,  their  educational  pur- 
suits, their  families,  loved  ones,  and 
friends,  and  go  out  at  their  own  expense 
to  carry  the  gospel  message  to  the  world. 

However,  under  the  circumstances  in 
which  we  live,  it  is  not  solely  a  matter 
of  inviting  a  young  man,  when  he 
reaches  the  proper  age,  to  go  and  serve 
in  the  mission  field.  Our  young  men 
are  faced  with  educational  problems, 
military  service,  employment,  and  other 
things;  they  have  the  problem  of  plan- 
ning and  preparing,  of  getting  their  per- 
sonal affairs  in  order,  of  being  ready,  of 
having  the  financial  requisites  to  sustain 
themselves  when  the  time  comes  for 
their  missionary  calls. 

So,  the  first  suggestion  I  make  is  this: 
We  ought  to  have  in  every  family  in  the 
Church  a  mission  savings  account.  This 
could  well  start  for  every  young  man 
when  he  is  born,  when  he  comes  into 
this  world.  It  takes  about  $2,000,  some- 
thing in  that  vicinity,  to  support  a  per- 
son in  the  mission  cause.  It  takes  about 
$75  a  month.  Now  those  of  us  of  modest 
means  may  find  it  somewhat  burden- 
some suddenly  to  be  obligated  in  that 
amount.  But  if  we  have  a  mission 
savings  account  for  each  male  child,  we 
can  very  easily  have  available  the  nec- 
essary funds  when  that  child  arrives  at 
missionary  age. 

If  you  would  deposit,  for  instance, 
four  dollars  and  a  few  odd  cents  to  a 
young  man's  savings  account  each 
month,  beginning  at  his  birth,  by  the 
time  that  he  is  old  enough  to  go  on  a 
mission,  without  counting  any  interest, 
you  would  have  about  one  thousand 
dollars  accumulated.  All  of  our  young 
people  as  they  mature,  as  they  come  up 
into  their  teens  in  the  economy  in  which 
we  live,  are  able  to  get  jobs  and  make 
money.  Now  if  our  young  men  would 
do  this  thing,  if  they  could  have  instilled 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


56 

Saturday,  October  8 

into  their  hearts  a  willingness  to  de- 
posit one-half  of  all  they  make  into  this 
mission  savings  account,  then  without 
any  question,  by  the  time  they  are  of 
missionary  age  there  would  be  $2,000 
or  more  available  to  support  them.  This 
would  remove  the  worry  and  burden 
of  financing  the  missionary,  and  the 
money  would  have  been  accumulated 
without  any  excessive  or  inordinate  ef- 
fort, and  all,  at  least  financially,  would 
be  in  readiness. 

But  in  the  process  of  acquiring  that 
money,  benefits  would  accrue  which 
would  far  exceed  the  monetary  sums 
that  might  be  saved.  If  a  young  man 
is  saving  consistently  through  his  teen- 
age years,  and  if  his  family  is  doing  the 
same,  so  that  he  can  go  out  into  mis- 
sionary service,  then  that  young  man  is 
having  instilled  into  his  heart  the  de- 
sire and  the  willingness  to  serve.  It  be- 
comes part  of  his  planning.  He  just 
automatically  assumes  that  he  will  dis- 
charge part  of  his  missionary  obligation 
by  spending  two  or  three  years  in  the 
mission  field.  He  is  impelled  to  live 
right,  to  study  and  gain  a  knowledge  of 
the  gospel,  to  keep  himself  morally 
clean,  to  be  worthy  and  qualified,  so 
that  the  inspiration  will  come  to  his 
bishop  to  recommend  him. 

Now  the  second  suggestion  which  I 
make  is  this:  We  are  supposed  to  be 
holding  regular  family  prayer  in  every 
Latter-day  Saint  home.  We  do  this 
twice  a  day,  ordinarily  before  the  morn- 
ing and  the  evening  meals.  The  parents 
set  the  example  in  family  prayer.  I  think 
perhaps  we  overlook  the  benefit  and 
value  of  family  prayer  in  teaching  the 
doctrines  of  salvation  to  our  children. 
Well,  if  we  as  parents  would  regularly, 
consistently,  frequently  (not  every  time 
we  pray,  because  we  do  not  get  into  a 
ritualistic  rote  where  these  things  are 
involved)  but  if  frequently  we  would 
plead  with  the  Lord  when  we  are  mouth 
in  family  prayer,  that  all  of  our  young 
men  may  go  on  missions  when  they  get 
to  be  the  proper  age,  and  that  all  of  our 
children,  male  and  female  alike,  when 
they  get  of  the  proper  age,  may  be  mar- 
ried in  the  temple — if  we  would  do  this 
we  would  soon  find  our  young  children, 
just  able  themselves  to  speak,  petition- 
ing the  Lord  in  the  same  language;  they 
would  be  praying  that  they  might  go  on 


Second  Day 

missions,  and  that  in  due  course,  they 
might  be  married  in  the  temple.  As  a 
consequence  we  would  instil  into  their 
hearts  a  desire,  a  willingness,  a  deter- 
mination to  go  out  and  carry  the  mes- 
sage and  also  a  determination  to  be 
married  in  that  system  out  of  which  the 
greatest  blessings  grow  that  it  is  possible 
for  any  mortal  individual  to  inherit. 

We  have  an  obligation.  This  is  not 
optional.  We  are  not  just  to  do  it  or 
not  if  it  is  convenient.  The  Lord  has 
commanded  us  to  carry  his  message  to 
the  world  and  to  be  witnesses  of  his 
name.  If  it  takes  some  preparation  and 
schooling,  if  it  takes  some  conditioning 
and  teaching  in  order  to  get  ourselves  in 
a  condition  where  we  can  do  this  effec- 
tively, then  in  wisdom  and  in  judgment 
and  in  prudence  we  ought  to  undertake 
the  conditioning  and  make  the  prepara- 
tion so  that  when  the  time  comes  we 
will  be  financially  able,  and  we  will  be 
spiritually  prepared  to  go  forth  on  the 
Lord's  errand. 

If  I  had  to  choose  between  the  two,  I 
would  rather  have  my  sons  go  on  mis- 
sions than  have  a  college  education.  It 
will  do  more  for  them  temporally  and 
educationally  to  say  nothing  of  the 
spiritual  benefits  that  are  involved. 

The  Lord  said  to  some  people  in  early 
days  what  I  think  applies  to  us:  ".  .  . 
the  thing  which  will  be  of  the  most 
worth  unto  you  will  be  to  declare  re- 
pentance unto  this  people,  that  you  may 
bring  souls  unto  me,  that  you  may  rest 
with  them  in  the  kingdom  of  my 
Father."  (D&C  15:6.) 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy.  He  has  given  a 
good  suggestion.  I  noticed  he  men- 
tioned you  have  in  mind  that  whenever 
a  male  child  is  born,  start  to  prepare 
him  for  a  mission, — it  applies  to  females 
as  well.  Our  girls  perform  a  great  work 
in  the  mission  field. 

The  University  of  Utah  Choral  So- 
ciety and  the  Bonneville  Strings,  singers 
from  the  Institute  of  Religion  and  the 
LIniversity  Choral  Groups,  will  now 
favor  us  with,  "Blessed  Are  They  That 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


57 


Mourn,"  conducted  by  Professor  David 
A.  Shand. 

The  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
President  D.  Keith  Ricks,  president  of 
the  West  Boise  Stake,  after  which  this 
Conference  will  be  adjourned  until  two 
o'clock  this  afternoon. 


The  Combined  Choral  Groups  pre- 
sented the  number,  "Blessed  Are  They 
That  Mourn." 

President  D.  Keith  Ricks  of  the  West 
Boise  Stake  offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  promptly  at 
2:00  p.m.,  Saturday,  October  8,  with 
President  David  O.  McKay  presiding 
and  conducting  the  services. 

The  special  music  for  this  afternoon's 
session  was  furnished  by  the  University 
of  Utah  Choral  Society  and  Bonneville 
Strings — singers  from  the  Institute  of 
Religion  and  the  University  Choral 
Groups,  conducted  by  David  Austin 
Shand,  with  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the 
Organ. 

President  McKay  opened  the  meeting 
with  the  following  introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

For  those  who  are  unable  to  gain 
entrance  or  obtain  seats  here  in  the 
Tabernacle  on  this,  the  fourth  session  of 
our  Conference,  we  announce  that  over- 
flow meetings  are  held  this  afternoon 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt 
Hall.  These  services  are  being  broad- 
cast by  television. 

This  session  of  the  Conference  will 
be  broadcast  as  a  public  service  over 
television  and  radio  stations  throughout 
the  West.  We  are  pleased  to  note  the 
attendance  this  afternoon  of  prominent 
state  officials,  government  officials, 
leaders  in  educational  circles,  to  whom 
we  extend  a  hearty  welcome;  also  the 
stake,  ward,  mission,  temple  and  general 
auxiliary  officers  of  the  Church.  To  all 
of  you  radio  and  television  audiences 
we  wish  the  joy  of  partaking  of  the 
spirit  that  is  even  now  prevalent  with 
this  large  audience. 

You  will  all  be  pleased  to  know  that 
we  are  favored  this  afternoon  by  the 
University  of  Utah  Choral  Society  and 
Bonneville  Strings,  singers  from  the  In- 
stitute of  Religion  and  the  University 
Choral  groups,  under  the  direction  of 


Professor  David  A.  Shand,  with  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
combined  choral  groups  singing,  "The 
Lord  Is  My  Shepherd."  Soloists  are 
Sister  Laura  Shand,  mezzo-soprano,  and 
Ronald  L.  Christensen,  tenor.  The 
invocation  will  be  offered  by  President 
Jay  A.  Quealy,  Jr.  of  the  Honolulu  Stake. 

Selection  by  the  Combined  Choral 
Groups,  "The  Lord  Is  My  Shepherd." 

President  Jay  A.  Quealy,  Jr.  of  the 
Honolulu  Stake  offered  the  invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Presi- 
dent Jay  A.  Quealy,  Jr.  of  the  Honolulu 
Stake.  I  have  no  mention  of  it  in  my 
notes,  but  I  have  heard  it  whispered 
from  some  source  that  the  beautiful 
song  that  was  sung  was  either  dedi- 
cated to  his  daughter,  Laura,  by  Brother 
Shand,  or  it  had  something  to  do  with 
her.  We  appreciate  the  leadership  and 
the  fine  singing  of  these  young  people, 
welcome  as  participants  in  this  glorious 
Conference. 

They  will  now  sing,  "Though  Deep'n- 
ing  Trials  Throng  Your  Way."  After 
the  singing  we  shall  hear  from  Presi- 
dent Alvin  R.  Dyer,  one  of  the  Assistants 
to  the  Twelve. 

The  Combined  Choral  Groups  sang 
the  hymn,  "Though  Deep'ning  Trials." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  first  speaker  this  afternoon  will  be 
Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  and  at  present  president  of  the 
European  Mission.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Bishop  Isaacson. 


58 

Saturday,  October  8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Second  Day 


With  my  dear  wife  and  missionary  com- 
panion, we  are  most  grateful  for  the 
privilege  of  being  invited  to  return  at 
this  conference  time  to  be  refortified 
with  the  spirit  and  the  strength  of  these 
wonderful  gatherings.  I  want  to  say  to 
the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church  that 
the  inspiration  of  their  direction  that 
has  come  to  us  during  the  past  nine 
months  has  been  in  large  measure  the 
reason  for  the  expanding  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  among  the  people  of 
Europe.  We  have  been  in  almost  con- 
stant contact  by  telephone,  by  letter, 
and  by  other  means,  with  the  inspiration 
and  direction  of  the  First  Presidency  of 
the  Church.  In  standing  here  this  after- 
noon, I  do  so  for  and  in  behalf  of  the 
thirteen  mission  presidents  who  are  now 
laboring  in  Europe,  and  I  bring  to  this 
conference  their  greetings,  as  well  as  to 
the  parents  of  their  missionaries,  and  to 
all  who  have  served  in  these  many  mis- 
sions of  Europe. 

These  mission  leaders  are  President 
and  Sister  T.  Bowring  Woodbury  of  the 
British  Mission;  President  and  Sister 
Levi  B.  Thorup  of  the  Danish  Mission; 
President  and  Sister  John  D.  Warner  of 
the  Finnish  Mission;  President  and  Sister 
Edgar  B.  Brossard  of  the  French  Mission; 
President  and  Sister  J.  Henry  Volker  of 
the  Netherlands  Mission;  President  and 
Sister  Ray  Engebretsen  of  the  Norwegian 
Mission;  President  and  Sister  Bernard 
P.  Brockbank  of  the  North  British  Mis- 
sion; President  and  Sister  Percy  K.  Fetzer 
of  the  North  German  Mission;  President 
and  Sister  A.  Gideon  Omer  of  the 
Swedish  Mission;  President  and  Sister 
William  S.  Erekson  of  the  Swiss  Mission; 
and  the  new  mission  recently  organized, 
President  and  Sister  W.  Whitney  Smith 
of  the  Austrian  Mission;  President  and 
Sister  T.  Quentin  Cannon  of  the  South 
German  Mission;  and  President  and 
Sister  Stephen  C.  Richards  of  the  West 
German  Mission.  And  with  them  also 
I  bring  the  greetings  of  1700  missionaries 
who  are  now  laboring  in  Europe.  I  am 
happy  to  report  that  I  have  had  the 
opportunity  during  these  past  months 
to  look  into  their  faces,  to  feel  their 
spirit,  and  once  again  to  say  within  my 
heart  and  to  proclaim  aloud  that  I  have 


confidence  in  the  youth  of  this  Church. 

I  am  grateful  to  say  that  there  is  a 
unification  in  the  programs  of  our  mis- 
sionary work  in  Europe.  Each  and 
every  mission  is  pursuing  the  work  of 
proselyting  in  the  same  manner,  and 
the  faith  and  the  testimony  of  the  mis- 
sionaries who  are  carrying  the  gospel 
to  the  peoples  of  these  ancient  lands 
are  in  evidence.  Presaged  by  the  visits 
made  to  Europe  by  President  McKay 
at  the  time  of  the  temple  dedications, 
followed  by  other  visits  by  members  of 
the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  and  by  Presi- 
dent Moyle,  the  visit  by  Elder  Harold 
B.  Lee  at  the  time  of  the  organization 
of  the  Manchester  Stake — these  have 
presaged  an  awakening  among  the  peo- 
ple of  these  ancient  lands. 

In  August  1959  all  of  the  European 
missions  combined  were  responsible  for 
ten  percent  of  the  converts  of  that  month. 
In  the  month  of  August  of  this  year,  the 
European  missions  were  responsible  for 
thirty-five  percent  of  the  converts  of  the 
Church  for  that  month,  and  I  only  re- 
echo the  faith  and  the  testimony  of  the 
mission  presidents  who  are  there  when  I 
say  that  we  haven't  even  scratched  the 
surface.  God  is  touching  the  hearts  of  the 
people,  they  are  listening,  and  are  receiv- 
ing answers  to  their  desires  and  their 
prayers.  I  only  wish  that  I  had  the  time 
to  tell  of  the  many  personal  cases  of  con- 
version that  have  come  to  these  thousands 
of  people  in  the  past  year,  and  to  reassure 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  these 
people  are  converted  to  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  They  have  answered  a 
call  that  has  come  to  them  under  the 
power  and  the  influence  of  the  Spirit 
of  God.  I  have  always  felt  in  my  heart 
that  when  the  Holy  Ghost  bears  record 
to  anyone  that  he  ought  to  do  some- 
thing about  that,  and  we  are  encouraging 
our  missionaries  in  all  of  these  lands  to 
be  alert  to  the  reaction  of  the  power  of 
the  Spirit  in  the  minds  and  the  hearts 
of  these  people,  and  in  that  very  moment 
to  persuade,  to  encourage,  to  teach,  to 
testify,  and  to  challenge  that  they  may 
be  willing  to  accept  the  gospel  message 
that  has  come  to  them. 

I  would  be  insensible  to  what  is  tak- 
ing place  in  these  ancient  lands  if  I  did 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 


59 


not  say  that  we  are  witnessing  the  ful- 
filling of  a  prophecy — a  prophecy  made 
by  President  McKay  at  the  time  I  was 
called  to  go  into  the  lands  of  Europe, 
wherein  he  stated  to  me  that  the  time 
had  come  for  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
to  be  expanded  in  these  lands.  The  peo- 
ple are  ready  for  the  gospel,  and  we 
are  finding  them  responding  to  the  ef- 
forts of  the  missionaries  as  they  bear 
record  by  the  power  of  faith  and  testi- 
mony of  the  truths  of  the  gospel  unto 
those  with  whom  they  make  this  contact. 

One  of  the  instructions  that  the  First 
Presidency  gave  to  me  was  to  go  into  all 
of  the  lands  of  Europe,  to  go  into  every 
mission,  and  I  think  it  was  President 
Moyle  who  said  to  me  that  I  might  well 
go  to  the  French  Mission  first.  We 
heeded  this  counsel,  and  with  my  good 
wife  I  went  into  the  land  of  France  and 
in  association  with  President  and  Sister 
Brossard,  spent  some  three  weeks  there 
last  February — a  land  where  ninety-two 
percent  of  the  population  belong  to  the 
Catholic  Church.  We  found  our  splen- 
did missionaries  responsive  to  motiva- 
tion and  a  new  method  of  contacting 
the  people  and  teaching  them  by  the 
power  of  the  Spirit  and  testimony. 

We  labored  in  that  land,  and  under 
the  inspiration  of  God  the  hearts  of  the 
missionaries  were  touched,  and  I  shall 
never  forget  a  meeting  held  in  Brussels 
at  the  close  of  the  tour  of  that  mission 
with  the  missionary  leaders,  who  went 
from  that  meeting  with  such  faith  that 
it  engendered  itself  into  the  hearts  of 
every  one  of  the  missionaries.  We  said 
to  them,  "We  want  you  to  go  back  to 
the  people  you  have  been  meeting  with, 
and  where  they  have  not  listened  to 
you  before,  to  bear  your  testimony  to 
them,  and  to  do  it  with  all  the  strength 
and  the  power  that  you  have."  From 
that  day  to  this  in  that  mission  the  Lord 
has  awakened  in  the  hearts  of  many 
hundreds  the  desire  to  receive  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  For  here  in  a  land 
rich  with  great  cathedrals  have  come 
over  600  converts  to  the  Church  already 
this  year,  to  meet  in  rented  halls,  but 
who  now  are  looking  forward  to  the 
time  when  they  can  associate  with  their 
brethren  and  sisters  in  the  erecting  of 
beautiful  chapels  to  better  serve  the 
needs  of  old  and  new  members  alike. 

As  of  today  there  is  not  a  single  LDS 


chapel  in  all  of  France,  and  anyone  who 
would  question  the  faith  of  these  people 
who  have  come  into  the  Church  would 
need  only  to  be  there  and  see  the  transi- 
tion that  they  have  made  from  cathedrals 
of  worship  to  halls  on  second  and  third 
floors,  and  who  now  are  laboring  as 
stated  with  our  other  Saints  to  help  in 
the  erection  of  our  own  chapels.  This 
has  been  true  in  all  of  the  missions  of 
Europe. 

I  think  one  of  the  greatest  testimonies 
that  has  come  to  me  in  these  past 
months  has  been  the  responsiveness  of 
the  local  members  of  the  Church  in 
Europe,  where  we  have  nearly  60,000. 
We  transferred  Church  leadership  to 
these  local  members.  While  in  Febru- 
ary of  this  year  there  were  nearly  600 
of  our  full  time  missionaries  engaged 
in  branch,  district,  and  auxiliary  activity, 
today  there  are  fewer  than  a  hundred, 
and  it  is  the  avowed  determination  of 
these  wonderful  mission  presidents  to 
see  to  it  that  local  leaders  be  called  in 
these  also.  This  accomplished  two 
things:  It  has  relieved  the  missionaries 
that  they  can  do  more  proselyting,  and 
it  has  strengthened  the  branches  of  the 
Church  in  these  countries. 

Let  me  tell  you  of  one  example  which 
is  typical.  In  the  tour  of  the  French 
Mission,  when  we  visited  the  city  of 
Nice,  we  had  several  missionaries  there 
all  engaged  in  branch  work.  One  was 
the  branch  president,  one  was  a  coun- 
selor, another  a  superintendent  of  Sunday 
School,  all  were  engaged.  The  thought 
had  been  that  local  brethren  were  not 
worthy  or  capable,  but  we  sought  out 
and  called  the  best  man  we  had.  That 
afternoon  we  interviewed  four  or  five  of 
the  local  elders,  and  with  Brother  Bros- 
sard selected  the  one  to  be  president  of 
the  branch.  We  called  in  his  wife  and 
asked  her  to  support  him.  That  night 
we  set  him  apart  and  others  of  the  local 
brethren  into  other  positions  thus  reliev- 
ing missionaries,  and  in  the  very  next 
month  these  missionaries  baptized 
twenty-one  people,  two  of  whom  were 
doctors,  one  an  attorney,  and  the  other 
a  schoolteacher. 

The  Nice  Branch  today  is  strong,  and 
since  that  meeting  there  have  been  ap- 
proximately sixty  people  come  into  the 
Church  in  that  one  branch,  and  they 
are  attending  their  meetings. 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  8 

I  stood  on  the  street  at  Trondheim  in 
Norway  where  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe 
lived  and  played  as  a  boy,  and  who  later 
said  that  the  day  would  come  when 
many  of  the  people  of  that  land  would 
accept  the  gospel,  and  we  are  witnessing 
the  continuing  of  this  prophecy  in  that 
land.  We  are  seeing  again  the  surge 
of  conversions  in  Great  Britain — a  land 
that  has  seen  more  than  160,000  con- 
verts to  the  Church.  Why  would  it  be 
incredible  that  under  the  inspiration  of 
God  there  could  be  more  of  these  won- 
derful people  accept  the  gospel  and 
come  into  the  Church? 

And  in  all  of  the  lands  of  Europe 
there  have  been  men  and  women  of 
great  strength  and  character  that  have 
added  to  the  stability  of  this  Church, 
and  how  grateful  now  to  be  there  in 
the  midst  of  this  new  time  of  awaken- 
ing that  will  see  more  than  ten  thou- 
sand converts  come  into  the  Church  in 
these  lands  this  year;  and  in  consulta- 
tion with  my  brethren,  these  mission 
presidents,  we  feel  that  there  is  no  end 
to  where  we  can  go  under  the  impetus 
of  the  power  of  God  as  he  reaches  and 
touches  the  hearts  of  the  people. 

These  new  converts  are  telling  their 
neighbors  about  the  gospel.  They  are 
letting  their  friends  know  about  it.  Let 
me  tell  you  of  one  typical  case.  When 
I  was  in  Denmark,  I  shook  hands  with 
a  good  sister  by  the  name  of  Dagmar 
Petersen,  who  had  been  baptized  a 
month  previously.  She  had  heard  the 
gospel,  but  she  said,  "I  am  too  old.  All 
of  my  family  would  turn  against  me.  I 
know  Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet  of  God, 
but  I  do  not  think  I'd  better  take  the 
step." 

But  thank  the  Lord  for  a  missionary 
who  had  the  courage  to  go  to  her  one 
day  when  there  was  a  baptismal  service 
and  say  to  her,  "Sister  Petersen,  today  is 
the  day  of  your  baptism.  The  font  is 
filled.  Will  you  come  with  me?"  She 
hesitated  for  a  moment,  then  went  with 
the  missionaries,  walking  the  six  or 
seven  blocks  to  our  beautiful  little  chapel 
and  was  there  baptized. 

In  this  conference  meeting  she  sat 
with  one  neighbor  on  one  side  and  two 
neighbors  on  the  other  side  of  her.  The 
one  on  the  one  side  already  had  been 
baptized,  and  the  other  two  were  to  be 
baptized  the  following  Saturday,  and 


Second  Day 

she  said,  "I  will  never  be  happy  until 
all  my  friends  and  all  my  neighbors 
have  been  baptized,"  and  this  wonder- 
ful soul  left  the  chapel  and  then  came 
back.  She  said,  after  entering  the  chapel 
again,  "I  cannot  leave,  the  spirit  is  so 
great  in  this  building.  I  must  shake 
hands  again,"  and  then  she  went  off 
down  the  street  with  her  friends. 

Every  Latter-day  Saint  desires  to  be  a 
missionary.  I  think  that  this  is  in  the 
heart  of  almost  every  member;  but  why 
is  it,  my  brethren  and  my  sisters,  that 
we  are  so  afraid  to  bear  our  testimonies 
to  our  neighbors?  I  think  it  was  the 
Apostle  Paul  who  said  this: 

"For  though  I  preach  the  gospel,  I 
have  nothing  to  glory  of:  for  necessity  is 
laid  upon  me;  yea,  woe  is  unto  me,  if 
I  preach  not  the  gospel!"  (1  Cor.  9:16.) 

Then  another  great  prophet  of  Israel 
has  said  this:  "So  thou,  O  son  of  man, 
I  have  set  thee  a  watchman  unto  the 
house  of  Israel;  therefore  thou  shalt 
hear  the  word  at  my  mouth,  and  warn 
them  from  me. 

"When  I  say  unto  the  wicked  .  .  . 
thou  shalt  surely  die;  and  if  thou  dost  not 
speak  to  warn  the  wicked  from  his  way, 
that  wicked  man  shall  die  in  his 
iniquity;  but  his  blood  will  I  require 
at  thy  hand. 

"Nevertheless,  if  thou  warn  the  wicked 
of  his  way  to  turn  from  it;  if  he  do  not 
turn  from  his  way,  he  shall  die  in  his 
iniquity;  but  thou  hast  delivered  thy 
soul."  (Ezek.  33:7-9.) 

I  have  often  said  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  "If  you  cannot  be  a  missionary, 
then  at  least  be  a  Latter-day  Saint,  that 
you  will  not  stand  in  the  way  by  your 
manner  of  living,  of  those  who  will 
want  to  come  into  the  Church." 

Now  there  are  many  wonderful  things 
going  on  in  Europe.  Under  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Lord  we  have  called  thirty- 
four  translators  in  the  various  countries. 
I  wish  I  could  tell  you  the  story  of 
each  one,  like  Sister  Charrier  down  in  a 
little  village  in  France.  She  heard  the 
gospel,  accepted  it.  We  learned  that 
she  had  a  class  of  pupils  whom  she  was 
teaching  English.  Her  preparations 
have  enabled  her  to  help  us  with  the 
translations  into  the  French  language. 
And  she  now  is  working  diligently. 

I  am  thinking  of  Immo  Luschin  Eben- 
greuth  of  Graz,  Austria,  a  man  who 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 


61 


heard  the  gospel  message  from  two 
missionaries,  and  said  to  them  before 
they  got  into  a  lengthy  discussion  on 
the  gospel,  "I  would  ask  you  only  five 
questions  before  you  go  further."  He  was 
a  confirmed  member  of  the  Catholic 
Church,  and  these  are  his  questions: 

"1.  Does  this  Church  believe  in  mar- 
riage for  all  eternity? 

"2.  Does  this  Church  believe  in  the 
punishment  for  infants  who  are  not 
baptized? 

"3.  Do,  in  this  Church,  the  rich  and 
the  poor  have  equal  opportunity? 

"4.  In  this  Church,  do  you  baptize  by 
immersion  for  the  remission  of  sin? 

"5.  In  this  Church  do  you  lay  on 
hands  for  the  receiving  of  the  Holy 
Ghost?" 

This  man  had  never  met  the  mission- 
aries before,  and  we  inquired  as  to  where 
he  got  such  questions.  His  answer  was, 
"We  have  not  been  satisfied  with  our 
faith.  My  wife  and  I  determined  that 
through  prayer  and  the  desire  to  know 
that  we  would  find  out  the  true  Church." 
The  missionaries  said,  "Why,  these  are 
our  teachings,"  and  thus  Brother  Eben- 
greuth  was  baptized  with  his  wife.  This 
brother  is  a  skilled  interpreter.  He  speaks 
English,  I  am  confident,  better  than  I 
do,  and  he  now  will  become  a  translator 
for  the  Church  of  the  German  language. 

This  has  been  how  the  Lord  has 
opened  the  way  for  us,  so  that  by  the 
end  of  this  year  nearly  one  hundred 
textbooks  and  manuals  combined  in  six 
languages  will  have  been  translated. 
This  has  been  a  tremendous  task  and 
could  not  have  been  done  without  the 
help  of  the  Lord. 

There  is  a  wide  program  of  micro- 
filming going  on  in  Europe.  This  is 
better  known  by  others  than  myself, 
although  I  have  kept  an  eye  on  it,  and 
have  had  some  indirect  connection  with 
it.  I  have  seen  the  advantages  to  this 
work  from  heeding  the  counsel  of  the 
brethren.  They  instructed  me  to  meet 
the  ambassadors,  the  leaders  of  nations, 
and  this  has  been  my  purpose,  and  in 
each  and  every  country  have  I  taken 
the  time  to  meet  these  men  when  I 
could. 

In  Norway  when  the  head  bishop  of 
the  state  church  carried  a  personal  cam- 
paign to  the  press  and  elsewhere  to 
prevent  us  from  microfilming  in  that 


land,  and  succeeded  also  in  getting  it 
before  the  Parliament  and  when  it  ap- 
peared as  though  we  might  lose  these 
privileges,  the  Minister  of  Education  of 
the  country  of  Norway,  who  is  also  the 
Minister  of  Religious  Instruction,  rose  to 
his  feet  and  said,  "You  cannot  stop  the 
Mormon  people  from  doing  this  work." 
He  said,  "I  have  been  to  Salt  Lake  City.  I 
have  met  these  people.  I  know  what  they 
do  with  these  films,"  and  he  made  a  de- 
fense for  us  largely  because  of  the  asso- 
ciation that  had  been  had  with  him 
here  and  in  the  land  of  Norway,  and 
even  the  head  bishop  of  the  state  church 
had  to  acknowledge  defeat  in  his  effort 
to  prevent  us  from  continuing  with  this 
work. 

And  so  the  Lord  is  watching  over  the 
things  that  are  being  done.  I  am  most 
grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
report  to  you  that  these  wonderful  mem- 
bers in  the  lands  of  Europe  are  substan- 
tially true  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
I  have  witnessed  in  their  youth  confer- 
ences their  adherence  to  our  Church 
customs  and  patterns  and  how  they  re- 
vere the  ideals  and  the  standards  which 
have  been  set  for  them  by  our  general 
youth  organizations.  I  have  been  near 
to  their  Relief  Society  meetings  and 
have  seen  how  the  influence  of  our 
Relief  Society  organization  finds  its  way 
into  their  thinking,  and  they  have  a  de- 
sire to  do  the  will  of  the  Lord.  I  do 
not  know  to  what  extent  we  may  go  in 
these  lands  when  they  have  the  instru- 
mentation and  the  facility  of  proper 
buildings  which  they  do  not  have  now. 

I  want  to  say  to  President  McKay  and 
President  Clark  and  President  Moyle  and 
the  brethren  how  grateful  these  people 
are  for  the  coming  building  program 
that  will  see  many  chapels  go  up  in 
places  where  they  are  so  sorely  needed 
to  further  the  Church  program  and 
which  also  will  provide  greater  tools  of 
missionary  work  to  carry  on  this  great 
responsibility  given  to  us  as  a  Church 
to  proclaim  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
unto  the  people. 

Let  me  tell  you  just  briefly  of  my  two 
visits  behind  the  Iron  Curtain  to  be  in 
attendance  with  the  Saints  at  Leipzig 
where  other  of  our  brethren  have  been. 
These  members  live  under  hardened 
conditions.  I  said  to  one  brother,  "How 
do  you  stand  it  here?"    He  said,  "We 


62  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  8 

learn  to  follow  the  paths  and  the  trails 
that  are  laid  out  for  us.  We  learn  to 
do  what  we  are  told,  then  we  have  no 
difficulty.  Our  children  are  picked  up 
in  the  morning  by  bus  at  8  a.m.  and 
are  delivered  home  at  night.  We  have 
no  control  over  their  schooling  nor  over 
what  is  taught  them:  referred  to  by 
Brother  Buehner  in  the  morning  session. 
I  was  greatly  moved  to  hear  the  testi- 
monies of  our  members  there. 

One  of  the  district  presidents  testified 
what  to  me  is  the  greatest  testimony  I 
have  heard  in  Europe:  Under  such  con- 
ditions "no  man,"  said  he,  "can  tell  me 
how  to  worship  God  in  my  own  heart. 
Although  there  are  nearly  five  thousand 
members  in  some  thirty-nine  branches 
we  keep  in  contact  with  them  as  much 
as  we  can."  I  thought  as  we  enjoyed 
this  wonderful  presentation  of  music 
here  today,  that  but  a  few  weeks  ago,  I 
listened  to  a  combined  chorus  of  the 
Leipzig  and  Dresden  districts  sing,  "Shall 
the  Youth  of  Zion  Falter."  The  look 
on  the  faces  of  these  young  people  was 
most  stirring.  All  that  day  in  our  priest- 
hood and  leadership  meetings,  we  gave 
encouragement  to  safeguard  to  the  full- 
est extent  possible  our  youth  to  cause 
them  to  remain  true  to  the  gospel  be- 
cause there  are  inroads  being  made. 

How  grateful  Sister  Dyer  and  I  have 
been  to  be  associated  with  these  people 
and  with  our  wonderful  missionaries, 
who  with  clear  faces  are  bearing  their 
testimonies  to  the  peoples  of  Europe, 
and  who  are  receiving  these  wonderful 
responses,  and  I  know  with  all  my  heart 
that  all  this  is  but  the  fulfilment  of 
prophecy. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  in  all  humil- 
ity that  this  is  the  work  of  God.  I  have 
seen  it  in  the  lives  of  people.  I  have 
witnessed  it  as  it  causes  men  and  women 
to  change  their  lives,  I  have  seen  it 
become  a  motivating  force  for  good,  and 
I  bear  record  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the 
Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
the  Mediator — not  as  it  is  preached  by 
these  predominant  countries  of  the  lands 
of  Europe.  And  do  you  know  that  this 
is  the  message  we  declare  when  we  go 
to  the  doors  of  the  people  the  first  time? 
It  is  through  the  testimony  of  our  mis- 
sionaries that  the  veneer  of  false  con- 
cepts and  the  antiquities  of  these  peo- 
ple are  being  laid  aside  for  the  acceptance 


Second  Day 

of  the  gospel.  It  is  more  powerful  than 
all  other  things  that  we  do  in  our 
missionary  work  as  we  look  into  their 
faces  and  bear  record  that  God  has 
raised  up  a  prophet,  and  they  are  lis- 
tening to  this  message. 

We  had  a  family  of  seven  visited 
recently  by  the  missionaries  where  the 
woman  was  about  to  close  the  door 
when  the  elder  said,  "I  can  see  you  are 
going  to  close  the  door.  I  am  very  sorry. 
We  have  such  a  wonderful  message," 
and  we  have  told  them,  "Before  any  door 
is  closed,  you  bear  your  testimony."  He 
said,  "Before  you  close  that  door  I  want 
to  bear  my  testimony  to  you  of  these 
brief  things  we  have  stated  today,"  and 
he  bore  his  testimony.  The  door  closed, 
and  the  missionaries  started  for  their 
home  to  their  room,  and  it  was  raining. 
They  had  reached  about  a  half  a  block 
when  they  heard  a  voice,  it  was  the 
young  boy  of  the  home,  fourteen-years- 
old,  who  said,  "Dad  wants  you  to  come 
back,"  and  they  went  back  and  the 
father  said,  "I  listened  to  your  message 
at  the  door  on  the  other  side  as  you 
spoke  to  my  wife,  and  I  did  not  think 
much  of  it  until  that  young  man  bore 
his  testimony,  and  then  something  came 
over  me  that  I  have  never  experienced 
before,  and  now  I  have  to  know  what 
this  is." 

I  had  the  privilege  of  shaking  hands 
with  this  family  of  seven  and  hearing 
them  testify  that  God  had  made  known 
to  them  that  these  things  are  true.  This 
is  the  reason  why  so  many  are  accepting 
the  gospel  in  the  lands  of  Europe.  We 
are  proclaiming  the  message  by  testi- 
mony and  through  the  Spirit. 

I  ask  the  blessings  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  upon  the  great  missionary  work 
and  upon  our  beloved  brethren  who 
lead  us,  without  whose  inspiration  and 
direction  we  could  not  go  forward  in 
these  lands  and  throughout  the  world, 
I  pray  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
President  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  president  of 
the  European  Mission,  an  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve.  Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 
of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  will  now  ad- 
dress us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley. 


63 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


President  McKay,  President  Moyle, 
President  Smith,  my  dear  brothers  and 
sisters,  I  will  be  very  grateful  to  you  for 
an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers 
while  I  attempt  to  speak  to  you.  I  have 
long  since  come  to  realize  that  in  and 
of  myself  there  is  very  little  that  I  can 
do.  Therefore,  I  shall  be  dependent 
greatly  upon  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  these 
nearly  eight  thousand  missionaries  who 
came  from  the  ranks  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood.  Many  of  them  just  a  few 
years  ago  were  little  deacons,  teachers, 
and  priests,  and  now  are  in  all  parts  of 
the  world  preaching  the  gospel.  I 
should  also  like  to  pay  tribute  to  their 
parents  and  their  families,  many  of  them 
come  from  very  modest  homes. 

Since  the  missionary  system  of  the 
Church  was  first  inaugurated,  it  is  esti- 
mated, and  it  is  only  an  estimation, 
that  there  may  have  been  approximately 
one  hundred  thousand  missionaries  sent 
into  all  parts  of  the  world.  The  mis- 
sionary system  has  undoubtedly  been  a 
source  of  tremendous  strength  to  the 
Church  throughout  its  fascinating  his- 
tory. Many  of  us  here  today  could 
trace  our  very  presence,  yes,  our  very 
membership  in  the  Church,  to  the  work 
of  some  wonderful  missionary.  And  in 
a  hundred  years  from  now,  when  none 
of  us  are  here,  there  will  probably  be 
millions  who  will  be  able  to  trace  their 
membership  in  the  Church  to  the  work 
of  some  wonderful  missionary. 

We  often  interview  these  young  men, 
and  we  talk  to  them  about  going  on  a 
mission.  One  of  the  questions  that  we 
ask  them  is,  "Do  you  want  to  go  on  this 
mission  or  are  you  going  because  some- 
one else  has  urged  you  to  go?"  Invariably 
we  get  a  very  strong  answer  to  the 
effect,  "Yes,  I  want  to  go  on  this  mis- 
sion. I  have  been  planning  on  it  for 
many  years  since  a  small  boy." 

Sometimes  we  ask  them,  "Who  will 
finance  you  on  this  mission?"  And  we 
get  some  wonderful  answers.  A  number 
of  them  say  that  they  have  been  saving 
money  themselves,  as  Brother  McConkie 
suggested  this  morning,  getting  ready  for 
this  mission.   Some  say,  "Well,  I  have 


been  in  the  service" — and  it  is  not  un- 
usual to  find  a  wonderful  boy  returning 
from  the  service  to  say,  "I  have  saved 
my  money  while  I  have  been  in  the 
service  in  the  hope  that  I  could  go  on  a 
mission." 

A  number  of  them  say,  "I  am  glad  to 
sell  my  car  that  I  have  bought,  and 
together  with  other  funds,  I  am  ready 
to  go  on  a  mission." 

Of  course,  the  majority  of  them  tell 
us  that  their  parents  will  sustain  them 
while  they  are  in  the  mission  field.  But 
many  occasionally  say  that  some  good 
friend  or  some  neighbor  or  relative 
wants  the  privilege  of  helping  them 
while  on  a  mission.  Others  say  their 
quorum  is  anxious  to  help  them.  These 
young  men  feel  that  it  is  a  great  bless- 
ing to  go  on  a  mission;  it  is  not  a 
burden.  They  do  not  look  at  it  as  a 
burden,  neither  do  they  look  at  it  as  a 
sacrifice.  Truly  these  young  men  are 
blessed  and  magnified.  We  must  realize 
that  before  they  left  for  their  mission, 
every  one  of  them  had  hands  laid  upon 
their  heads  by  servants  of  the  Lord, 
who  gave  them  a  blessing  and  set  them 
apart  as  missionaries. 

Sometimes  we  ask  a  prospective  mis- 
sionary, "Do  you  have  a  testimony  of 
the  gospel?"  And  the  young  man  will 
look  at  you  and  say,  "Yes,  I  have  a  testi- 
mony. It  may  not  be  as  strong  as  I  hope 
it  will  be  in  later  years,  but  I  have  a 
testimony." 

And  then  we  may  ask  the  prospective 
missionary,  "Do  you  know  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God?"  And  it 
is  always  a  thrill  to  see  a  young  man 
look  up  and  say,  "Yes,  sir!  I  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet!"  "Do  you 
know  that  President  David  O.  McKay 
is  a  prophet?"  "Yes,  sir!"  He  looks  at 
you  and  says,  "I  know  that  President 
David  O.  McKay  is  a  prophet  of  the 
Lord!" 

Then  we  may  ask  these  prospective 
missionaries,  "Is  there  anything  in  this 
world  that  could  change  you?  Is  there 
anyone  who  could  change  your  mind 
or  change  your  testimony?"  They  will 
look  at  you  and  say,  "No,  there  is  not 
anything  in  this  world  that  could  change 


64 

Saturday,  October  8 

my  mind,  because  I  know  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  I 
know  that  President  David  O.  McKay 
is  a  prophet."   And  they  do  know  it. 

How  do  they  know  it?  They  know  it 
by  the  power  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  that  testifies  to  them  that  it  is  so. 
They  speak  as  did  the  Prophet  Joseph 
when  describing  his  great  vision  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son: 

"I  had  actually  seen  a  light,  and  in 
the  midst  of  that  light  I  saw  two  Per- 
sonages, and  they  did  in  reality  speak  to 
me;  and  though  I  was  hated  and  perse- 
cuted for  saying  that  I  had  seen  a  vision, 
yet  it  was  true;  and  while  they  were 
persecuting  me,  reviling  me,  and  speak- 
ing all  manner  of  evil  against  me  falsely 
for  so  saying,  I  was  led  to  say  in  my 
heart:  Why  persecute  me  for  telling  the 
truth?  I  have  actually  seen  a  vision; 
and  who  am  I  that  I  can  withstand  God, 
or  why  does  the  world  think  to  make  me 
deny  what  I  have  actually  seen?  For  I 
had  seen  a  vision;  I  knew  it,  and  I  knew 
that  God  knew  it,  and  I  could  not  deny 
it,  neither  dared  I  do  it;  at  least  I  knew 
that  by  so  doing  I  would  offend  God,  and 
come  under  condemnation."  (Joseph 
Smith,  2:25.) 

On  many  occasions,  young  men  have 
volunteered  to  me,  when  I  have  asked 
them,  if  there  are  any  circumstances  or 
teacher  who  might  change  their  testi- 
mony, and  they  have  spoken  very  strong- 
ly and  said,  "I  would  rather  die  than 
deny  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet 
of  Godl" 

Do  you  worry  about  that  kind  of 
young  men?  No,  no!  In  years  to  come 
we  will  see  the  strength  of  those  great 
young  men. 

Recently  I  was  told  the  story  of  a 
wonderful  physician  and  surgeon.  A 
few  years  ago  while  he  was  serving  in 
the  army,  and  at  that  time  he  was  not 
a  member  of  the  Church,  he  met  two 
or  three  of  our  young  Mormon  mission- 
aries. He  did  not  know  them  at  the 
time,  and  he  spoke  somewhat  disre- 
spectfully to  them.  One  of  these  young 
men,  very  composed,  spoke  up  frankly 
to  this  doctor  and  told  him  who  they 
were  and  what  they  were  doing.  The 
doctor  listened,  and  he  said  he  was  very 
chagrined  and  ashamed  because  of  the 
way  he  had  spoken  to  them.  The  doctor 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

soon  learned  to  admire  these  young  men, 
and  he  listened  to  them. 

He  went  home,  and  he  told  his  wife 
about  these  exceptional  young  men.  He 
told  her  some  of  the  things  that  they 
had  told  him.  True,  these  were  not 
learned  men  of  science,  they  were  not 
even  men  with  great  experience.  But  he 
learned  a  great  deal  from  these  young 
Mormon  missionaries,  and  he  soon  recog- 
nized that  while  they  were  not  men  of 
science,  they  were  men  of  God.  He 
learned  to  listen  to  them,  and  it  was  not 
long  before  both  he  and  his  wife  joined 
the  Church  and  are  very  wonderful 
members  of  the  Church  today. 

This  fine  doctor  often  thanks  the  Lord 
for  these  wonderful  Mormon  mission- 
aries, because  you  see,  now  this  doctor 
has  six  or  seven  sons  of  his  own,  and 
he  often  reminds  them  that  he  wants 
them  to  be  like  the  fine  Mormon  mis- 
sionaries whom  he  met  years  ago,  and 
who  were  responsible  for  teaching  him 
the  gospel  and  bringing  him  and  his 
wife  into  the  Church. 

Our  missionaries  are  ever  receiving, 
and  in  this  they  are  blessed,  but  more 
important,  they  are  ever  giving.  They 
receive  not  to  hold  for  themselves,  but 
to  give  to  others.  In  receiving,  they  are 
like  the  Sea  of  Galilee  and  the  Dead 
Sea  in  Palestine.  In  giving,  they  are 
like  the  Sea  of  Galilee  only,  which  re- 
ceives and  gives,  while  the  Dead  Sea 
receives  only  to  hold  to  itself,  and  it  gives 
nothing.  The  vast  difference  between 
receiving  and  giving  and  only  receiving 
is  appropriately  described  in  the  follow- 
ing word  picture  of  the  two  seas  of  the 
Holy  Land,  and  I  think  each  of  us  should 
now  resolve  to  be  like  the  Sea  of  Galilee: 

"One  is  fresh  and  fish  abound  in  it. 
Splashes  of  green  adorn  its  landscape. 
Trees  spread  their  branches  over  it  and 
stretch  out  their  thirsty  roots  to  sip  of 
its  life-giving  waters.  Along  its  shores 
children  play,  as  children  played  when 
He  was  there.  He  loved  it.  He  could 
look  across  its  silver  surface  as  He  spoke 
His  parables.  And  on  a  rolling  plain, 
not  far  away,  He  fed  five  thousand  peo- 
ple in  the  miracle  of  the  loaves  and 
fishes.  The  River  Jordan  forms  this  Sea 
with  sparkling  waters  from  the  hills.  It 
laughs  in  the  sunshine,  and  men  build 
their  houses  near  it,  and  birds  their 
nests,  and  every  kind  of  life  is  happier 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


65 


because  it  is  there.  The  River  Jordan 
flows  on  south  into  another  Sea.  Here 
there  is  no  splash  of  fish,  no  fluttering 
leaf,  no  song  of  birds,  no  laughter  of  little 
children.  Travelers  do  not  pass,  unless 
on  urgent  business  which  might  take 
them  there.  The  air  hangs  heavy  above 
its  waters,  and  neither  man  nor  beast 
nor  fowl  will  drink  of  it.  What  makes 
this  mighty  difference  in  these  neighbor 
Seas?  Not  the  River  Jordan — It  empties 
the  same  good  water  into  both.  Not  the 
soil  in  which  they  lie,  nor  the  country 
'round  about.  The  Sea  of  Galilee  re- 
ceives and  gives  but  does  not  keep  the 
Jordan  water  to  itself.  For  every  drop 
which  flows  into  it,  another  drop  flows 
out.  The  receiving  and  the  giving  go 
on,  day  after  day,  in  equal  measure. 
The  other  Sea  hoards  its  income  jeal- 
ously. Every  drop  it  gets,  it  keeps.  The 
Sea  of  Galilee  gives  and  lives.  The 
other  Sea  gives  nothing.  It  is  named 
'The  Dead  Sea.'  "  (Bruce  Barton.) 

With  this  comparison  between  receiv- 
ing and  giving,  it  is  easy  to  see  what 
the  great  missionary  program  can  do 
for  your  young  men,  for  they  forsake  all 
selfishness,  and  they  turn  to  the  divine 
art  of  selflessness,  as  they  seek  to  give 
only  that  they  may  have  a  richer  store 
from  which  to  give  for  the  blessing  of 
others. 

Yes,  we  think  that  every  deacon, 
teacher,  and  priest  of  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood should  prepare  to  fill  a  mission. 
These  choice  young  men  should  have 
proper  training.  Last  year  we  presented 
over  31,000  individual  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood awards  to  very  choice,  wonderful 
young  men,  which  means  that  every  one 
of  these  young,  outstanding  men  is  a 
potential  missionary,  if  we  as  parents 
and  leaders  do  our  part. 

These  young  men  are  preparing  for 
that  mission.  Parents  and  Aaronic 
Priesthood  leaders  would  do  well  to 
hold  as  the  goal  for  every  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood boy  the  preparation  for  a  mission. 
For  seven  years — two  years  as  a  deacon, 


two  years  as  a  teacher,  and  three  years 
as  a  priest— the  courses  of  study,  we 
hope,  will  be  prepared  and  so  correlated 
that  at  the  end  of  these  seven  years,  all 
of  these  wonderful  Aaronic  Priesthood 
boys  will  have  reached  that  goal  of 
being  prepared  to  fill  a  mission.  And 
during  these  seven  years'  experience  in 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood  program,  the  boy 
will  be  given  a  training  that  will  carry 
him  not  alone  through  a  mission,  but 
throughout  his  life. 

We  know  there  are  some  young  men 
who  may  be  on  the  wrong  road.  We 
would  say  to  you  young  men,  "Turn 
back.  Turn  back;  it  isn't  too  late.  We 
want  to  help  you.  You  can  still  find  the 
right  road.  We  want  you  to  know  that 
the  Lord  loves  you  young  men.  We 
want  you  to  know  and  appreciate  what 
is  in  store  for  you.  We  want  you  to  feel 
that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the 
greatest  stabilizing  influence  in  your 
life." 

I  want  to  bear  you  my  testimony  that 
I  know  that  God  lives.  I  love  the  Lord. 
I  want  to  bear  testimony  to  you  that  we 
can  get  close  to  the  Lord,  perhaps  closer 
than  we  ourselves  may  fully  realize,  but 
it  will  take  humility;  it  will  take  effort, 
and  we  cannot  be  satisfied  just  to  go 
on  the  road  of  least  resistance.  Let  us 
make  sure  that  these  thousands  of  Aaron- 
ic Priesthood  boys  are  not  neglected. 
What  a  shame  it  would  be  if  we  failed 
to  give  every  boy  proper  encouragement, 
training,  planning,  or  if  we  did  any- 
thing that  would  deny  any  one  of  these 
boys  receiving  a  call  for  his  mission. 

God  bless  us  that  we  may  live  up  to 
the  responsibilities  which  are  ours,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley, 
Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak 
to  us. 


66 

Saturday,  October  8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Second  Day 


If  I  had  the  wish  of  my  heart  I  would 
ask  for  the  privilege  of  sitting  down  and 
having  this  wonderful  choir  sing  again 
that  hymn  which  they  sang  so  beauti- 
fully this  morning: 

"I  stand  all  amazed  at  the  love  Jesus 
offers  me, 

Confused  at  the  grace  that  so  fully  he 
proffers  me." 

I  seek  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord.  I 
had  prepared  a  talk,  but  I  think  I  shall 
discuss  something  else.  Brother  Dyer 
has  been  speaking  of  the  work  in  Europe, 
and  I  rejoice  at  the  marvelous  things 
that  are  being  accomplished  there.  I 
wish  to  say  that  I  feel  that  the  same 
spirit,  the  power  of  the  Lord  upon  the 
people  of  the  earth,  is  being  made  mani- 
fest all  over  the  world  where  the  gospel 
is  being  taught. 

I  have  recently  had  the  experience, 
under  the  direction  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency, of  going  through  the  missions  of 
the  Orient.  I  cannot  deny  the  miracles 
of  God,  and  I  think  many  of  the  things 
I  have  seen  are  truly  miracles. 

Not  long  ago,  I  sat  in  an  old  high 
school  gymnasium  in  the  city  of  Seoul, 
Korea.  Just  a  short  time  earlier  the 
blood  of  the  young  people  of  Korea  had 
been  running  in  the  streets  of  that 
strife-ridden  city.  In  our  meeting  that 
evening  there  were  over  500  young 
Koreans.  I  was  told  that  we  have  only 
two  married  couples  who  are  members 
of  the  Church  in  all  of  the  Seoul  District. 
Our  members  there  are  young,  forward- 
looking  people.  Conducting  that  gather- 
ing was  a  sandy-haired,  Utah  farm  boy. 
He  conducted  with  dignity  and  spoke 
with  ease  the  language  of  those  people, 
and  after  the  meeting,  as  they  came  up 
and  put  their  arms  around  him,  and  he 
put  his  arms  around  them,  I  marveled  at 
the  power  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
to  change  men's  hearts. 

We  then  went  down  to  the  sad  city 
of  Pusan  on  the  southern  tip  of  Korea. 
We  held  a  street  meeting  in  the  park 
overlooking  the  harbor.  Within  a  few 
feet  of  a  great  anti-aircraft  gun  emplace- 
ment we  opened  our  meeting,  and  about 


150  curious,  intelligent-looking  people 
gathered.  A  boy  from  Florida,  a  mis- 
sionary of  this  Church,  began  to  speak. 
I  then  wandered  down  into  the  crowd 
with  an  army  sergeant — one  of  our  boys 
who  was  taking  us  around.  A  Korean 
who  spoke  some  English  said  in  sub- 
stance to  the  sergeant,  "How  long  that 
young  man  been  here?"  "Two  years," 
was  the  reply.  "No — he  here  longer. 
Americans  here  fifteen  years  and  not 
speak  our  language.  Americans  not 
speak  Korean  like  that."  I  thought  of 
the  words  of  the  Savior  as  recorded  by 
Mark:  ".  .  .  they  shall  speak  with  new 
tongues."  (Mark  16:17.) 

I  remember  sitting  in  this  tabernacle 
while  I  was  a  university  student  and 
hearing  one  of  the  brethren  say  that 
peace  can  come  to  the  world  only 
through  acknowledgment  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  I  was  at  a  critical  age, 
and  I  doubted  the  possibility  of  that 
ever  occurring.  I  think  recently  I  have 
glimpsed  the  vision  of  how  it  might 
happen. 

Not  long  ago  we  were  in  Hiroshima, 
Japan.  We  stood  in  the  park  and 
green  grows  the  grass  at  the  site  where 
on  the  sixth  of  August  1945,  just  fifteen 
years  ago,  80,000  lives  were  taken  with 
the  blinding  flash  of  the  first  atomic 
bomb.  Another  80,000  have  since  died 
from  the  effects  of  it.  It  is  a  sobering 
experience  to  stand  in  that  place. 

There  is  a  simple  monument  about 
the  size  of  this  pulpit,  and  it  has  in- 
scribed on  its  face  in  Japanese  characters, 
words  which  say  in  translation:  "Rest  in 
peace.  May  this  tragedy  never  again 
come  to  the  world." 

There  were  three  of  us,  the  mission 
president,  a  man  from  Hiroshima,  and 
myself.  The  man  from  Hiroshima  was  a 
Japanese  businessman,  an  elder  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  a  man  who  had  served  in  the 
Japanese  Imperial  Army  for  nine  years. 
I  was  an  elder  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  from  the 
land  which  had  dropped  the  bomb. 
With  emotion  and  sincerity  he  said, 
through  an  interpreter,  "Thank  God  for 
the  missionaries.    Last  night  my  wife 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 


67 


and  I  were  on  our  knees,  as  we  are  each 
night,  to  express  gratitude  for  the  com- 
ing of  these  two  young  men  who  have 
literally  saved  our  lives.  We  had  noth- 
ing to  live  for,  no  hope  here  or  hereafter, 
and  we  were  drinking  ourselves  to  death. 
They  came.  They  taught  us.  They 
brought  purpose  into  our  lives.  The 
change  in  me  has  been  so  noticeable 
that  my  partner  became  curious.  I  have 
been  teaching  him  the  gospel,  and  I  am 
now  going  to  baptize  him." 

That  is  the  way  peace  will  come  to 
the  world.  This  thing  shall  spread  from 
soul  to  soul,  and  men  in  all  lands  shall 
come  to  acknowledge  Jesus  Christ  as 
the  Son  of  God,  the  Savior  of  mankind, 
our  Elder  Brother,  the  Prince  of  Peace. 

We  sat  in  a  testimony  meeting  one 
day  a  few  months  ago.  A  boy  stood  up 
with  a  letter  in  his  hand.  He  said,  "I 
think  I  am  happier  than  I  have  ever 
been  in  my  life.  I  have  had  many 
wonderful  experiences  here,  and  they 
have  made  me  happy,  but  it  is  this 
letter  that  has  really  warmed  my  heart. 
My  father,  once  active,  began  drinking, 
and  oh,  the  sorrow  my  mother  has  suf- 
fered because  of  this.  After  my  farewell 
my  father  said,  'My  son,  I  am  going  to 
try  to  live  worthy  of  you.'  Now,"  the 
missionary  said,  "I  have  a  letter  from 
my  father,  received  yesterday,  which 
says  that  last  week  he  was  ordained  a 
high  priest  and  set  apart  as  counselor 
in  the  bishopric  of  our  ward,  and  he 
has  just  made  a  down  payment  on  a 
home  for  the  first  time  in  his  life." 

These  are  some  of  the  miracles  I  have 
seen  in  my  associations  with  our  mis- 
sionaries. I  am  grateful,  I  am  more 
grateful  than  I  can  say  for  this  great 
program  of  the  Church  that  I  have  been 
blessed  to  be  associated  with.  I  know 
it  is  one  of  the  marks  of  the  divinity  of 
this  work.  No  other  organization  in 
this  world  has  anything  quite  like  it. 


It  touches  for  good  the  lives  of  all  who 
are  affected  by  it. 

The  work  is  going  forward  on  the 
other  side  of  the  earth.  I  recall  sitting 
here  as  a  boy  and  hearing  President 
Grant  tell  of  his  difficulties  in  Japan 
and  of  his  praying  to  the  Lord  to  give 
him  another  assignment  because  of  his 
discouragement.  Do  you  know  that  the 
missionaries  of  the  Northern  Far  East 
Mission  have  baptized  an  average  of 
about  six  converts  per  missionary  so  far 
this  year?  Many  of  these  were  not 
Christian  people.  Our  missionaries  in 
this  part  of  the  world  have  taken  to 
people  who  are  of  the  Oriental  religions 
the  testimony  of  Jesus  and  have  con- 
verted them  to  this  cause.  God  bless 
them  for  their  devotion  and  their  faith- 
fulness. The  Lord  bless  us  at  home  to 
sustain  his  work  throughout  the  world 
by  the  virtues  of  our  lives,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Gordon 
B.  Hinckley,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 

We  shall  now  be  favored  by  the  Com- 
bined Choral  Groups  and  the  Congrega- 
tion singing,  "Oh  Say,  What  Is  Truth?" 
conducted  by  Professor  David  A.  Shand. 
After  the  singing  we  shall  hear  from 
the  Patriarch  to  the  Church,  Elder 
Eldred  G.  Smith. 

The  Combined  Choral  Groups  and 
the  congregation  joined  in  singing  the 
hymn,  "Oh  Say,  What  Is  Truth?" 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to 
the  Church,  will  now  speak  to  us.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  LeGrand 
Richards  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


This  is  truly  an  inspiring  sight.  I  have 
thrilled  with  the  messages  that  have 
been  given  here  at  this  conference.  I 
am  thrilled  with  the  progress  of  the 
missionary  work  and  the  growth  of  the 
Church    throughout    its    length  and 


breadth.  This  is  truly  a  blessed  people 
and  a  choice  generation  in  which  to 
live. 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been 
given  to  people  throughout  the  earth  at 
various  times,  even  at  the  time  of  Adam 


68  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  8 

and  the  time  of  Noah  and  coming  down 
to  the  time  of  Abraham,  who  was  given 
a  very  significant  promise.  Speaking  to 
Abraham,  the  Lord  said: 

"...  I  give  unto  thee  a  promise  that 
this  right  shall  continue  in  thee,  and 
in  thy  seed  after  thee  [that  is  to  say,  the 
literal  seed,  or  the  seed  of  the  body] 
shall  all  the  families  of  the  earth  be 
blessed,  even  with  the  blessings  of  the 
Gospel,  which  are  the  blessings  of  sal- 
vation, even  of  life  eternal."  (Abraham 
2:11.) 

This  is  the  time  and  generation  when 
this  blessing  is  being  fulfilled.  The 
blessings  of  the  gospel  are  coming  to  all 
the  peoples  of  the  earth.  The  Lord  is 
truly  touching  their  hearts  and  opening 
the  way  for  them  to  receive  the  gospel. 

The  Lord  is  also  assisting  in  other 
ways  which  I  have  mentioned  here  be- 
fore, I  believe,  and  I  cannot  help  con- 
tinually being  grateful  for  the  outpour- 
ing of  knowledge  which  has  come  upon 
the  earth  since  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel,  which  makes  it  possible  for  this 
gospel  to  be  taught  to  all  the  people  of 
the  earth  through  the  modern  facilities 
that  have  been  developed  and  prepared 
and  which  continue  to  grow.  I  am  very 
thankful  and  grateful  for  these  facilities. 

The  Church  Section  of  the  News  re- 
cently mentioned  the  number  of  copies 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon  being  printed — 
nearly  500,000  copies  are  being  printed 
annually  and  sent  throughout  the  world. 
The  facilities  that  make  it  possible  to 
send  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  the  ends 
of  the  earth,  among  the  various  peoples 
of  the  earth,  as  has  been  indicated  here 
by  other  speakers,  are  peculiar  to  our 
Church.  Not  only  the  Book  of  Mormon 
but  also  much  other  Church  literature 
is  being  translated  into  many  languages 
so  that  not  only  we  of  the  English  speak- 
ing peoples  may  have  the  gospel,  but 
also  many  others  throughout  the  earth. 

This  is  truly  a  choice  generation.  I 
am  sure  there  is  no  blessing  given  but 
what  there  is  an  obligation.  Where 
much  is  given,  much  is  expected.  We 
have  heard  from  many  speakers  at  this 
conference  of  our  obligation  to  teach 
the  gospel,  to  warn  our  neighbors,  and 
above  all  to  live  the  gospel  ourselves.  I 
would  like  just  briefly  to  refer  to  a 
revelation  given  by  the  Lord.  In  section 


Second  Day 

41  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  he 
said: 

"Hearken  and  hear,  O  ye  my  people, 
saith  the  Lord  and  your  God,  ye  whom 
I  delight  to  bless  with  the  greatest  of  all 
blessings,  ye  that  hear  me;  and  ye  that 
hear  me  not  will  I  curse,  that  have  pro- 
fessed my  name,  with  the  heaviest  of 
all  cursings."  (D&C  41:1.) 

This  is  a  strong  warning,  but  I  be- 
lieve truly  that  the  Lord  means  what  he 
says.  He  has  given  us  the  blessings;  he 
continues  to  pour  out  his  blessings  upon 
us  in  rich  abundance;  and  then  he 
gives  the  warning  that  we  who  have 
accepted  the  gospel,  if  we  do  not  live  up 
to  these  covenants,  he  will  pour  out  upon 
us  "the  heaviest  of  all  cursings." 

I  could  not  help  thinking  when 
Brother  Hinckley  was  speaking  about 
Hiroshima,  that  this  summer  I  visited 
again  at  Oakridge,  Tennessee,  and  found 
that  the  process  which  developed  the 
atomic  bomb  which  was  dropped  on 
Hiroshima  is  now  so  obsolete  that  that 
process  is  no  longer  in  operation.  If  we 
think  of  what  might  happen  to  this 
world  if  the  people  of  this  world  do 
not  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord, 
we  cannot  stretch  our  imagination  far 
enough  to  imagine  what  the  Lord  might 
pour  out  upon  this  generation  when  he 
says,  he  might  pour  out  upon  us  "the 
heaviest  of  all  cursings."  All  the  bless- 
ings and  all  the  scientific  developments 
which  have  been  given  to  us,  might  be 
turned  upon  us  to  our  condemnation. 

I  pray  the  Lord's  blessings  upon  us 
that  we  will  heed  his  teachings,  that 
we  will  teach  our  neighbor  and  develop 
righteousness  throughout  this  earth. 

The  history  generally  given  to  us  in 
the  Book  of  Mormon  and  all  this  world's 
history  is  a  repetition  of  righteousness 
with  peace  and  prosperity,  and  with 
unrighteousness  there  is  war  and  desola- 
tion. This  shall  be  repeated  throughout 
the  life  of  this  earth,  and  we  are  no 
exception. 

May  the  Lord's  blessings  be  with  us, 
that  we  may  ever  be  faithful,  keeping 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord  and 
doing  that  which  he  desires  of  us  in 
teaching  the  gospel  to  our  neighbors, 
our  friends,  our  relatives;  and  so  live  the 
gospel  that  we  will  be  that  kind  of  mis- 
sionary, I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS  69 

President  David  O.  McKay:  cil  of  the  Twelve  will  now  speak  to  us. 

He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  A.  Theo- 
Elder  LeGrand  Richards  of  the  Coun-     dore  Tuttle. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  am  very  grateful  to  my  Heavenly 
Father,  brothers  and  sisters,  for  the  privi- 
lege of  attending  this  conference  with 
you,  for  your  faith  and  devotion,  for  the 
service  you  render,  and  for  my  associa- 
tion with  my  brethren  of  the  General 
Authorities. 

In  my  heart  I  welcome  the  three  new 
ones  that  have  come  to  us  this  day. 

I  feel  grateful  for  my  membership  in 
this  Church,  more  than  for  anything 
else  in  all  this  world,  and  I  do  not 
know  how  I  could  live  without  it. 

In  President  McKay's  opening  re- 
marks and  in  two  of  the  prayers  that 
have  been  offered  at  the  commencement 
of  these  meetings,  reference  has  been 
made  to  the  privilege  of  being  here  in 
this  historic  building.  As  we  come  here 
from  time  to  time  in  our  various  meet- 
ings and  gatherings,  we  hear  that  ex- 
pression, and  I  would  like  to  make  a 
few  comments  on  what  makes  this 
building  so  historic.  It  is  wonderful  as 
we  think  of  the  great  men,  prophets  of 
this  dispensation,  who  have  occupied 
this  pulpit,  and  of  the  counsel  and  the 
advice  they  have  given  and  the  testi- 
monies that  have  been  borne  and  the 
experiences  related  of  the  hand-dealings 
of  the  Lord  with  his  people  and  his 
guidance  and  direction  through  the 
years.  Then  we  recall  the  wonderful 
music  and  prayers  we  have  heard  from 
time  to  time,  as  we  have  come  here,  all 
of  which  has  made  an  impression  upon 
our  lives,  until  we  have  left  this  build- 
ing with  new  hope  and  new  ambition 
and  new  desires. 

I  was  reading  a  pamphlet  a  few  days 
ago  that  was  given  to  my  father  by 
his  mother  before  I  was  born,  and  in 
that  pamphlet  it  reported  a  special 
conference  held  in  the  Old  Tabernacle 
on  the  28th  of  August,  1852,  for  the 
purpose  of  calling  missionaries.  We 
have  heard  a  lot  about  missionaries  and 
missionary  work  at  this  conference,  but 
that  is  one  of  our  great  responsibilities. 


In  that  meeting  there  were  some  3,000 
elders  of  Israel  present  and  the  full 
Presidency  of  the  Church,  President 
Brigham  Young,  President  Heber  C. 
Kimball,  and  President  Willard  Rich- 
ards, seven  of  the  twelve,  and  most  of 
the  General  Authorities. 

President  Kimball  was  asked  to  speak 
to  the  brethren  present,  the  elders  of 
Israel,  about  the  purpose  of  the  meeting, 
and  he  told  them  that  they  were  there, 
many  of  them,  to  be  called  into  the 
mission  field,  and  ninety-eight  of  them 
were  called  and  assigned  to  the  follow- 
ing places:  The  British  Isles,  France, 
Germany,  Capital  of  Prussia  (Berlin), 
Norway,  Denmark,  Gibraltar,  Hindoo- 
stan,  Siam,  China,  Cape  of  Good  Hope 
(South  Africa),  Nova  Scotia  and  British 
Provinces  in  America,  West  Indies, 
British  Guiana,  Australia,  Sandwich  Is- 
lands, and  parts  of  the  United  States. 

Mind  you,  that  was  only  five  years 
after  the  Saints  had  gathered  here  from 
their  drivings  in  the  East  and  before 
there  were  any  railroads,  and  yet  they 
were  sent  out  to  these  distant  lands. 

We  heard  yesterday  from  Bishop 
Wirthlin  some  of  the  sacrifices  that 
these  early  brethren  made  in  order  that 
this  great  missionary  cause  would  con- 
tinue to  roll  forth.  My  grandfather  and 
the  grandfather  of  Brother  Franklin  D. 
Richards,  whom  you  sustained  here 
today,  out  of  the  first  fourteen  years  of 
his  married  life,  spent  ten  years  of  it  in 
the  mission  field  away  from  his  family. 
That  was  typical  of  what  many  of  the 
brethren  did. 

I  thought  you  would  be  interested  to 
hear  a  statement  or  two  by  President 
Kimball  to  those  elders  upon  the  occa- 
sion mentioned.    He  declared: 

"I  say  to  those  of  you  who  are  elected 
to  go  on  missions,  go,  if  you  never  re- 
turn, and  commit  what  you  have  into 
the  hands  of  God — your  wives,  your 
children,  your  brethren,  and  your 
property." 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


70 

Saturday,  October  8 

Nearly  all  of  these  men  were  married, 
and  they  had  only  been  here  a  short 
time  to  establish  their  families.  Elder 
George  A.  Smith,  the  following  speaker, 
said: 

"The  missions  we  will  call  for  during 
this  conference,  are  generally  not  to  be 
very  long  ones,  probably  from  three  to 
seven  years  will  be  as  long  as  any  man 
will  be  absent  from  his  family." 

And  then  he  continued: 

"If  any  of  the  elders  refuse  to  go,  they 
may  expect  that  their  wives  will  not 
live  with  them,  for  there  is  not  a  Mor- 
mon sister  who  would  live  with  a  man 
a  day,  who  would  refuse  to  go  on  a 
mission." 

That  is  quite  a  statement,  and  while 
it  seems  to  us  today  a  little  extreme, 
nevertheless,  when  you  travel  through 
this  Church  and  see  the  sacrifices  that 
are  being  made — Brother  Isaacson  re- 
ferred to  them  this  afternoon — to  sustain 
these  somewhat  8,000  missionaries  in 
the  field,  it  is  a  wonderful  thing. 

I  would  like  to  relate  two  experiences 
I  have  had  in  interviewing  missionaries. 
A  few  years  back,  I  interviewed  a  young 
man  in  southern  Utah  before  we  had 
discontinued  sending  young  married 
men  into  the  mission  field,  and  when  I 
looked  at  his  recommend  papers  I  saw 
that  he  was  a  married  man,  and  I  said: 
"Does  your  wife  want  you  to  go  on  this 
mission?"  He  said  she  did,  and  I  said, 
"Why  didn't  you  bring  her?"  He  said, 
"I  couldn't.  She  just  gave  birth  to  our 
first  child  this  morning  in  the  hospital." 
Then  I  said,  "Well,  then  we  will  have 
to  go  to  the  hospital."  And  we  did,  and 
there  was  that  young  mother  with  her 
firstborn  child  in  her  arms.  I  said,  "Do 
you  want  this  husband  of  yours  to  go 
on  a  mission?"  She  said,  "Brother 
Richards,  I  surely  do.  When  we  mar- 
ried we  decided  that  our  marriage  should 
not  stand  in  the  way  of  his  mission,  and 
my  parents  are  able  and  willing  to  care 
for  me  and  the  baby."  And  so  he  went 
on  his  mission  and  was  a  wonderful 
missionary.  I  kept  in  touch  with  that 
little  woman  while  he  was  gone. 

I  had  a  similar  experience  in  Provo. 
I  interviewed  a  young  man  under  the 
same  circumstances,  except  that  his  wife 
was  just  expecting  a  call  to  go  to  the 
hospital  any  moment,  to  give  birth  to 
their  first  child.    Later  as  I  visited  in 


Second  Day 

Idaho  in  one  of  the  stakes,  I  stayed  in 
the  home  of  the  stake  president,  and 
there  was  this  little  mother,  taking  care 
of  her  baby  while  that  missionary- 
husband  was  in  the  mission  field. 

The  Lord  has  put  into  this  Church 
the  breath  of  life.  He  has  made  it  pos- 
sible for  people  to  make  the  supreme 
sacrifice,  almost,  in  order  that  this  work 
will  go  forward  in  all  the  earth.  You 
remember  when  one  came  to  him  and 
said,  "Lord,  I  will  follow  thee  whither- 
soever thou  goest,"  and  the  answer  was, 
"Foxes  have  holes,  and  the  birds  of  the 
air  have  nests;  but  the  Son  of  man 
hath  not  where  to  lay  his  head."  (Luke 
9:57-58.)  And  so,  of  course,  the  man 
turned  away.  Unto  another  he  said, 
"Follow  me.  But  he  said,  Lord,  suffer 
me  first  to  go  and  bury  my  rather." 
And  as  if  the  Master  would  speak  to  all 
coming  generations  of  the  importance 
of  this  great  missionary  cause,  he  said: 
"Let  the  dead  bury  their  dead:  but  go 
thou  and  preach  the  kingdom  of  God." 
(Ibid.,  59-60.)  Now  that  spirit  has  pre- 
vailed and  carried  on  this  great  mission- 
ary cause  of  the  Church. 

I  remember  being  in  this  Tabernacle 
as  a  boy  when  President  Woodruff  gave 
what  I  think  was  his  last  address  to 
the  people,  when  he  told  how  mar- 
velously  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  had 
guided  him  all  through  his  ministry. 
I  remember  the  story  he  told  about 
traveling  east  on  one  of  his  missionary 
journeys,  and  in  the  middle  of  the  night 
he  was  warned  by  the  Spirit  to  arise 
and  move  his  wagon  and  team.  They 
were  fastened  by  a  large  oak  that 
had  stood  possibly  a  hundred  years 
and  had  never  been  disturbed,  and  after 
he  had  moved  the  wagon  and  the  team, 
a  whirlwind  came  and  took  that  oak 
tree  up  by  the  roots  and  threw  it  right 
where  his  wagon  had  been  stationed. 

Such  testimonies  are  what  have  made 
this  a  historic  building.  One  could 
hardly  say  that  he  did  not  know  that 
the  power  of  God  was  in  this  work,  and 
that  his  Spirit  operates  and  guides  and 
directs.  Such  things  could  not  be,  except 
the  power  of  God  is  with  this  people. 

In  that  same  address,  I  remember  his 
telling  of  bringing  a  group  of  immi- 
grants from  England,  I  think  it  was, 
and  when  they  were  about  to  embark 
on  a  boat  at  New  Orleans,  and  he  was 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


71 


making  arrangements  with  the  captain, 
that  same  Spirit  told  him  not  to  go,  either 
himself  or  his  company,  and  so  he 
excused  himself,  and  they  did  not  go 
on  that  boat.  And  it  had  only  gone  up 
the  river  a  short  distance  when  it  caught 
fire  and  burned,  and  everybody  on  it  was 
killed.  He  said,  "If  I  had  not  listened 
to  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  we  would  not 
have  bishop  so-and-so  and  president  so- 
and-so,"  naming  them  right  from  this 
very  pulpit.  This  is  a  historic  building. 
The  power  of  God  has  been  and  is  here. 

I  would  like  to  refer  to  another  expe- 
rience related  by  President  Woodruff  as 
he  stood  here  and  talked  in  the  con- 
ference in  1898,  and  this  is  recorded  in 
the  Conference  Report.  He  said:  "I  am 
going  to  bear  my  testimony  to  this  as- 
sembly if  I  never  do  it  again  in  my 
life  that  those  men  who  laid  the  founda- 
tion of  this  American  government,  and 
signed  the  Declaration  of  Independence, 
were  the  best  spirits  the  God  of  heaven 
could  find  on  the  face  of  the  earth. 
They  were  choice  spirits,  not  wicked 
men.  General  Washington  and  all  the 
men  that  labored  for  the  purpose  were 
inspired  of  the  Lord. 

"Another  thing  I  am  going  to  say 
here,  because  I  have  a  right  to  say  it: 
Everyone  of  those  men  that  signed  the 
Declaration  of  Independence  with  Gen- 
eral Washington  called  upon  me  as  an 
Apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  the 
temple  at  St.  George,  two  consecutive 
nights,  and  demanded  at  my  hands  that 
I  should  go  forth  and  attend  to  the 
ordinances  of  the  House  of  God  for 
them."  And  he  and  others  did  that 
work  for  them. 

Such  an  experience  would  seem  al- 
most incredible  to  the  world.  The 
things  of  God  are  understood,  Paul  says, 
by  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  the  things  of 
man  are  understood  by  the  spirit  of 
man,  and  the  natural  man  receiveth  not 
the  things  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  for  they 
are  foolishness  unto  him.  (1  Cor.  2:14.) 
If  God  could  take  Elijah  to  heaven  with- 
out tasting  death,  if  he  could  promise  to 
send  him  again,  as  Malachi  declared, 
to  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the 
children  lest  he  come  and  smite  the 
earth  with  a  curse  (Mai.  4:5-6),  surely 
he  could  permit  such  characters  as 
George  Washington  and  the  signers  of 
the  Declaration  of  Independence  to  come 


back  to  ask  for  their  blessings,  because 
they  were  sent  upon  this  earth  before 
Elijah  came,  before  holy  temples  had 
been  built,  before  men  could  receive 
the  holy  ordinances  of  the  house  of  the 
Lord  for  their  exaltation. 

I  bear  my  testimony  in  closing  that 
there  is  not  a  man  and  a  woman  in  this 
world — in  or  out  of  the  Church — if  God 
would  only  give  them  the  vision  to  see 
and  the  heart  to  understand  that  would 
not  do  everything  within  their  power  to 
obtain  such  blessings  as  these  men 
sought  at  the  hands  of  this  apostle  of 
this  dispensation  who  later  became  the 
President  of  this  great  Church.  This 
is  in  keeping  with  the  promise  of  the 
building  of  the  house  of  the  God  of 
Jacob  in  the  latter-days  in  the  top  of 
the  mountains,  and  the  gathering  there- 
unto from  all  the  nations  of  the  earth 
to  learn  of  his  ways  and  walk  in  his 
paths.  How  rich  we  are  in  the  blessings 
of  God,  and  how  great  have  been  the 
things  that  have  come  out  of  this  his- 
toric building. 

God  grant  that  we  may  so  live  that 
in  all  our  ministry  we  may  be  prompted 
and  guided  and  inspired  by  that  same 
Spirit,  I  humbly  pray,  and  leave  you  my 
blessing,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  hear  from  Brother  Tuttle 
perhaps  tomorrow. 

We  want  to  thank  these  young  men 
and  young  women  for  their  presence 
today.  Brother  Shand,  thank  you,  the 
singing  by  your  group  has  been  glorious 
and  selections  appropriate.  We  are  glad 
that  these  young  people  participated 
in  this  wonderful  service  this  afternoon 
and  this  morning.  And  the  members 
of  the  Bonneville  Strings  have  the 
thanks  and  gratitude  of  a  vast  audience 
— only  part  of  whom  you  have  seen  in 
the  Tabernacle.  We  thank  you  and 
those  of  the  University  whom  you  rep- 
resented so  nobly  and  well  this  morning 
and  this  afternoon. 

The  University  Choral  Groups,  ac- 
companied by  the  Bonneville  Strings, 
will  sing,  "Praise  to  the  Holiest,"  with 
the  soloists,  Beryl  Jensen  Smiley,  mezzo- 
soprano,  and  Ronald  L.  Christensen, 
tenor.   The  group  will  be  conducted  by 


72 

Saturday,  October  8 

Professor  David  A.  Shand,  after  which 
the  benediction  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Wallace  D.  Yardley,  president  of  the 
Beaver  Stake,  following  which  this  con- 
ference will  be  adjourned  until  seven 
o'clock  this  evening  when  the  General 
Priesthood  meeting  of  the  Priesthood  of 
the  Church  will  be  held  in  the  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle.  Only  those  holding  the 
Priesthood  are  invited  to  be  present. 
Persons  not  holding  the  Priesthood  will 
kindly  refrain  from  attempting  to  enter 
the  building. 

The  Priesthood  session  will  not  be 
broadcast.  In  addition  to  the  meeting 
held  in  this  room,  overflow  meetings 
will  be  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  in 
Barratt  Hall,  and  relayed  by  closed 
circuit  to  members  of  the  Priesthood 
assembled  in  271  other  Church  buildings 
from  coast  to  coast  and  in  Canada.  In- 
cluded in  those  271  are  three  or  four 
in  New  Zealand. 

The  General  Sessions  tomorrow  will 
be  broadcast  as  a  public  service  over 
television  and  radio  stations  throughout 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

the  west.  The  Tabernacle  Choir  Broad- 
cast will  be  from  8:30  to  9:00  o'clock. 
Those  desiring  to  attend  this  broadcast 
must  be  in  their  seats  at  8:15  o'clock. 
It  is  requested  that  the  audience  remain 
quiet  during  the  broadcast. 

The  singing  for  this  session  and  this 
morning,  has  been  furnished  by  the 
University  of  Utah  Choral  Society  and 
the  Bonneville  Strings,  singers  from  the 
Institute  of  Religion  and  the  University 
Choral  Groups,  under  the  direction  of 
Professor  David  A.  Shand,  with  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  now  hear  the  chorus  sing, 
"Praise  to  the  Holiest,"  with  soloists, 
I  repeat,  Sister  Beryl  Jensen  Smiley  and 
Brother  Ronald  L.  Christensen. 

The  Choral  Groups,  accompanied  by 
the  Bonneville  Strings,  sang  an  anthem, 
"Praise  To  The  Holiest,"  following 
which  the  benediction  was  offered  by 
Elder  Wallace  D.  Yardley,  president  of 
the  Beaver  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  7:00  p.m. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


The  General  Priesthood  Meeting  of 
the  Church  convened  in  the  Tabernacle, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Saturday  evening, 
October  8,  at  7:00  p.m. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services  of  the 
meeting. 

The  President  announced  that  the 
choral  singing  for  the  meeting  would  be 
by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus, 
with  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie  as 
Director,  and  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the 
Organ.  The  President  opened  the  meet- 
ing with  the  following  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  fifth  session  of  the  One 
Hundred  Thirtieth  Semi-Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  Members  of  the 
Priesthood  are  gathered  in  the  Assembly 
Hall,  Barratt  Hall,  and  in  271  other 
buildings  from  Coast  to  Coast  and  in 
Canada  and  New  Zealand. 

The  singing  during  this  session  will 
be  furnished  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
Men's  Chorus  with  Elder  Richard  P. 
Condie  as  director,  and  Elder  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ.   We  shall  begin 


these  services  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
Men's  Chorus  singing,  "Come,  All  Ye 
Sons  of  Zion."  After  the  singing,  Elder 
Edwin  E.  James,  president  of  the  Lyman 
Stake  will  offer  the  invocation. 

Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
Male  Chorus,  "Come,  All  Ye  Sons  of 
Zion." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
President  Edwin  E.  James  of  the  Lyman 
Stake. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Presi- 
dent Edwin  E.  James  of  the  Lyman 
Stake.  The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir  will  now  sing,  "Seek  Thy 
God,"  directed  by  Elder  Richard  P. 
Condie. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus 
sang  "Seek  Thy  God." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  first  speaker  tonight  is  Elder 
Marion  G.  Romney,  member  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 


73 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren,  this  is  a  great  audience. 
It  might  be  the  largest  attended  General 
Priesthood  meeting  we  have  ever  held. 
I  have  tried  to  prepare  for  this,  my 
first  assignment  in  such  a  meeting,  but 
I  am  sure  that  if  I  say  anything  worth- 
while, it  will  be  by  the  Lord's  help. 
Will  you  please,  therefore,  give  me  an 
interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers. 

For  my  text  I  have  chosen  the  43rd 
Verse  of  the  84th  Section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants.  It  reads:  "And  I 
now  give  unto  you  a  commandment  to 
beware  concerning  yourselves,  to  give 
diligent  heed  to  the  words  of  eternal 
life."  As  background  I  shall  read  a  few 
verses  which,  in  the  revelation,  precede 
the  text. 

In  the  forepart  of  the  revelation  the 
Lord,  speaking  of  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood,  says:  "Which  priesthood 
continueth  in  the  church  of  God  in  all 
generations,  and  is  without  beginning 
of  days  or  end  of  years. 

"And  the  Lord  confirmed  a  priesthood 
also  upon  Aaron  and  his  seed,  through- 
out all  their  generations,  which  priest- 
hood also  continueth  and  abideth  for- 
ever with  the  priesthood  which  is  after 
the  holiest  order  of  God."  (D&C  84:17- 
18.) 

Such  is  the  nature  of  the  Priesthood 
we  bear. 

"And  this  greater  priesthood  adminis- 
tereth  the  gospel  and  holdeth  the  key 
of  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom,  even  the 
key  of  the  knowledge  of  God. 

"Therefore,  in  the  ordinances  thereof, 
the  power  of  godliness  is  manifest. 

"And  without  the  ordinances  thereof, 
and  the  authority  of  the  priesthood,  the 
power  of  godliness  is  not  manifest  unto 
men  in  the  flesh."  (D&C  84:19-21.) 

And  now  I  am  going  to  skip  a  few 
verses  and  read  the  covenant  that  be- 
longs to  the  Priesthood. 

"For  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the  ob- 
taining these  two  priesthoods  of  which 
I  have  spoken,  and  the  magnifying  their 
calling,  are  sanctified  by  the  Spirit  unto 
the  renewing  of  their  bodies. 

"They  become  the  sons  of  Moses  and 
of  Aaron  and  the  seed  of  Abraham,  and 


the  church  and  kingdom,  and  the  elect 
of  God."  (D&C  84:33-34.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  used  to 
repeatedly  urge  the  brethren  to  make 
their  calling  and  election  sure.  There 
is  no  way  to  do  this  except  by  receiving 
the  Priesthood  and  magnifying  it. 
But  to  continue  with  the  revelation: 
"And  also  all  they  who  receive  this 
priesthood  receive  me,  saith  the  Lord; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  my  servants 
receiveth  me."  (D&C  84:35-36.) 

This  statement  is  worth  emphasizing. 
"He  that  receiveth  my  servants  re- 
ceiveth me."  Who  are  his  servants? 
They  are  his  representatives  in  the  of- 
fices of  the  Priesthood — the  General, 
Stake,  Priesthood  Quorum,  and  Ward 
officers.  It  behooves  us  to  keep  this 
in  mind  when  we  are  tempted  to  dis- 
regard our  presiding  authorities,  bishops, 
quorum  and  stake  presidents,  etc.,  when, 
within  the  jurisdiction  of  their  callings, 
they  give  us  counsel  and  advice.  Re- 
member that  the  Lord  Jesus  said: 
"Verily  I  say  unto  you,  Inasmuch  as  ye 
have  done  it  unto  one  of  the  least  of 
these  my  brethren,  ye  have  done  it  unto 
me."  (Matthew  25:40.)  "He  that  re- 
ceiveth a  prophet  in  the  name  of  a 
prophet  shall  receive  a  prophet's  re- 
ward." (Matthew  10:41.) 

But  back  to  the  covenant  of  the 
Priesthood:  "He  that  receiveth  me  re- 
ceiveth my  Father; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father 
receiveth  my  Father's  kingdom;  there- 
fore all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be 
given  unto  him. 

"And  this  is  according  to  the  oath 
and  covenant  which  belongeth  to  the 
priesthood. 

"Therefore,  all  those  who  receive  the 
priesthood,  receive  this  oath  and  cove- 
nant of  my  Father,  which  he  cannot 
break,  neither  can  it  be  moved."  (D&C 
84:37-40.) 

Now,  I  am  tempted  to  comment  on 
this  covenant  at  length,  but  since  it  is 
not  the  heart  of  my  message,  I  will  say 
only  that,  as  I  understand  it,  all  of  us 
who  receive  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood 
enter  into  an  agreement  with  our 
Heavenly  Father  to  magnify  it.  On 


74  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  8 

condition  that  we  magnify  it,  the 
Father  undertakes  to  make  us  equal  with 
him  in  the  sense  that  "all  that  my  Father 
hath  shall  be  given  unto  him.  .  .  .  But 
whoso  breaketh  this  covenant  after  he 
hath  received  it,  and  altogether  turneth 
therefrom,  shall  not  have  forgiveness  of 
sins  in  this  world  nor  in  the  world  to 
come."  (D&C  84:38,  41) 

When  I  first  began  to  seriously  think 
about  this  statement,  I  wondered  if  it 
would  not  have  been  better  for  me 
never  to  have  received  the  Priesthood, 
if  failing  to  magnify  it  would  mean  I 
would  never  receive  forgiveness  in  this 
world  or  the  world  to  come.  Then  I 
got  to  thinking  about  this  next  verse, 
which  says:  "And  wo  unto  all  those  who 
come  not  unto  this  priesthood."  (D&C 
84:42.) 

I  finally  came  to  the  conclusion  that 
I  was  between  the  horns  of  a  dilemma 
and  that  my  only  hope  was  to  receive 
and  magnify  the  Priesthood. 

Such  is  the  background  for  our  text: 
"And  I  now  give  unto  you  (bearers  of 
the  Priesthood)  a  commandment  to 
beware  concerning  yourselves,  to  give 
diligent  heed  to  the  words  of  eternal 
life. 

"For  you  shall  live  by  every  word 
that  proceedeth  forth  from  the  mouth 
of  God."  (D&C  84:43-44.) 

Now  why  should  we  beware  concern- 
ing ourselves?  We  should  beware  con- 
cerning ourselves  because  it  now  is  and 
has  always  been  the  objective  of  Satan 
to  destroy  the  Priesthood  of  God.  As 
long  ago  as  the  war  in  heaven,  he  sought 
to  usurp  the  power  of  the  Priesthood.  As 
a  result  of  the  conflict  he  there  precipi- 
tated, he  was  cast  out  of  heaven.  He 
had  to  be  cast  out.  There  could  be  no 
peace  in  heaven  until  he  was  cast  out. 

Banishment  from  heaven  did  not, 
however,  end  his  attack  on  the  Priest- 
hood of  God.  In  the  Garden  of  Eden  he 
sought  to  deceive  Adam.  And  he  con- 
tinued his  diabolical  purpose  after  the 
fall.  When  Adam  and  Eve  received 
the  Gospel  and  taught  it  to  their  chil- 
dren, Satan  came  among  them  and  said: 
"Believe  it  not  .  .  .  and  they  loved 
Satan  more  than  God.  And  men  began 
from  that  time  forth  to  be  carnal, 
sensual,  and  devilish."  (Moses  5:13.) 

When  "the  presence  of  God  with- 
drew from  Moses"  following  the  great 


Second  Day 

revelation  He  gave  of  Himself  to  Moses, 
Moses  tells  us  that  "Satan  came  tempt- 
ing him,  saying:  Moses,  son  of  man  .  .  . 
I  am  the  Only  Begotten,  worship  me." 
(Moses  1:9,  12,  19.) 

He  sought  to  deceive  even  the  Savior. 
You  will  all  remember  how  he  tempted 
Jesus  in  the  wilderness,  on  the  pinnacle 
of  the  temple,  and  on  the  high  moun- 
tain. 

Satan  has  sought  in  all  ages  to  deceive 
the  sons  of  God  who  have  received  the 
Priesthood.  He  has  not  been  entirely 
unsuccessful  either,  for  in  all  past 
dispensations  he  has  finally  succeeded 
in  deceiving  them  to  the  extent  that  he 
has  driven  the  Priesthood  from  the  earth. 

Now  we  know  he  is  not  going  to  drive 
the  Priesthood  from  the  earth  in  this 
dispensation  because  the  Lord  has  said 
it  is  here  to  stay  until  the  Savior  comes. 
But  there  is  no  guarantee  that  he  will 
not  deceive  a  lot  of  men  who  hold  the 
Priesthood.  The  Savior,  talking  about 
these  days  in  which  we  live,  said,  "For 
in  those  days  there  shall  also  arise 
false  Christs,  and  false  prophets,  and 
shall  show  great  signs  and  wonders, 
insomuch,  that,  if  possible,  they  shall 
deceive  the  very  elect,  who  are  the  elect 
according  to  the  covenant  (the  covenant 
of  the  gospel  and  the  Priesthood)." 
(Joseph  Smith  1:22.) 

So  far  as  Satan's  war  against  the 
Priesthood  is  concerned,  he  is  making 
no  exception  in  this  last  dispensation. 
His  objective  is  still  to  deceive  every 
one  of  us  he  can  and  to  drive  the  Priest- 
hood from  the  earth.  Satan  is  very  real. 
His  power  is  very  real.  His  influence  is 
felt  everywhere.  He  literally  stalks  the 
earth.  "The  powers  of  darkness  prevail 
upon  the  earth  .  .  .  and,  behold,  the 
enemy  is  combined."  (D&C  38:11,  12.) 

You  no  doubt  heard  what  President 
McKay  said  in  his  opening  address  yes- 
terday morning  about  the  power  of  the 
Evil  One  trying  to  deceive  and  deprive 
men  of  their  agency.  Free  agency  is  the 
principle  against  which  Satan  waged  his 
war  in  heaven.  It  is  still  the  front 
on  which  he  makes  his  most  furious, 
devious,  and  persistent  attacks.  That 
this  would  be  the  case  was  foreshadowed 
by  the  Lord  when  he  said  to  Moses: 
"That  Satan,  whom  thou  hast  com- 
manded in  the  name  of  mine  Only  Be- 
gotten, is  the  same  which  was  from 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


75 


the  beginning,  and  he  came  before  me, 
saying — Behold,  here  am  I,  send  me, 
I  will  be  thy  son,  and  I  will  redeem  all 
mankind,  that  one  soul  shall  not  be 
lost,  and  surely  I  will  do  it;  wherefore 
give  me  thine  honor."  His  plan  was  to 
save  us  all  by  depriving  us  of  free  agency 
and  subjecting  us  to  his  will. 

"But,  behold,"  continued  the  Lord, 
"my  Beloved  Son,  which  was  my  Be- 
loved and  Chosen  from  the  beginning, 
said  unto  me — Father,  thy  will  be  done, 
and  the  glory  be  thine  forever. 

"Wherefore,  because  that  Satan  re- 
belled against  me,  and  sought  to  destroy 
the  agency  of  man,  which  I,  the  Lord 
God,  had  given  him,  and  also,  that  I 
should  give  unto  him  mine  own 
power.  .  .  ."  Priesthood  is  God's  power. 
That  is  what  Satan  is  after — power.  He 
wants  it  in  the  form  of  dictatorship. 
"Wherefore,  because  that  Satan  rebelled 
against  me,  and  sought  to  destroy  the 
agency  of  man,  which  I,  the  Lord  God, 
had  given  him,  and  also,  that  I  should 
give  unto  him  mine  own  power;  by  the 
power  of  mine  Only  Begotten,  I  caused 
that  he  should  be  cast  down; 

"And  he  became  Satan,  yea,  even  the 
devil,  the  father  of  all  lies,  to  deceive 
and  to  blind  men,  and  to  lead  them 
captive  at  his  will,  even  as  many  as 
would  not  hearken  unto  my  voice." 
(Moses  4:1-4.) 

You  see,  at  the  time  he  was  cast  out 
of  heaven,  his  objective  was  (and  still  is) 
"to  deceive  and  to  blind  men,  and  to 
lead  them  captive  at  his  will."  This  he 
effectively  does  to  as  many  as  will  not 
hearken  unto  the  voice  of  God.  His 
main  attack  is  still  on  free  agency. 
When  he  can  get  men  to  yield  their 
agency,  he  has  them  well  on  the  way 
to  captivity. 

We  who  hold  the  Priesthood  must 
beware  concerning  ourselves,  that  we  do 
not  fall  into  the  traps  he  lays  to  rob  us 
of  our  freedom.  We  must  be  careful 
that  we  are  not  led  to  accept  or  support 
in  any  way  any  organization,  cause,  or 
measure  which,  in  its  remotest  effect, 
would  jeopardize  free  agency,  whether 
it  be  in  politics,  government,  religion, 
employment,  education,  or  any  other 
field.  It  is  not  enough  for  us  to  be 
sincere  in  what  we  support.  We  must 
be  right! 

As  to  Satan's  direct  attack  upon  the 


restored  Church  and  its  Priesthood,  you 
will  remember  this  account  of  the 
Prophet  as  to  what  happened  in  the 
Sacred  Grove  as  he  knelt  to  pray: 

"I  had  scarcely  done  so,  when  imme- 
diately I  was  seized  upon  by  some  power 
which  entirely  overcame  me,  and  had 
such  an  astonishing  influence  over  me  as 
to  bind  my  tongue  so  that  I  could  not 
speak.  Thick  darkness  gathered  around 
me,  and  it  seemed  to  me  for  a  time  as 
if  I  were  doomed  to  sudden  destruction. 

"But,  exerting  all  my  powers  to  call 
upon  God  to  deliver  me  out  of  the  power 
of  this  enemy  which  had  seized  upon 
me,  and  at  the  very  moment  when  I  was 
ready  to  sink  into  despair  and  abandon 
myself  to  destruction — not  to  an  imagin- 
ary ruin,  but  to  the  power  of  some  ac- 
tual being  from  the  unseen  world,  who 
had  such  marvelous  power  as  1  had 
never  before  felt  in  any  being — "  (Jo- 
seph Smith  2:15,  16) 

Before  the  Church  had  been  organized 
six  months  the  Devil  was  foisting  his 
counterfeits  upon  its  members.  In  his 
history  of  September  1830,  the  Prophet 
says: 

"To  our  great  grief,  however,  we  soon 
found  that  Satan  had  been  lying  in  wait 
to  deceive,  and  seeking  whom  he  might 
devour.  Brother  Hiram  Page  had  in  his 
possession  a  certain  stone,  by  which  he 
had  obtained  certain  'revelations'  con- 
cerning the  upbuilding  of  Zion,  the  order 
of  the  Church,  etc.,  all  of  which  were 
entirely  at  variance  with  the  order  of 
God's  house,  as  laid  down  in  the  New 
Testament,  as  well  as  in  our  late  revela- 
tions." (D.H.C.  1:109-110) 

The  Prophet  was  greatly  concerned 
about  it  because  Oliver  Cowdery  and 
the  Whitmers  were  sympathetic  with 
Hiram  Page  and  began  to  believe  his 
spurious  revelation.  In  response  to  the 
Prophet's  inquiry,  the  Lord  gave  him 
the  revelation  recorded  in  the  28th  Sec- 
tion of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 
This  revelation  was  directed  to  Oliver 
Cowdery.  In  it  the  Lord  said  to  him: 
"Thou  shalt  take  thy  brother,  Hiram 
Page,  between  him  and  thee  alone,  and 
tell  him  that  those  things  which  he  hath 
written  from  that  stone  are  not  of  me, 
and  that  Satan  deceiveth  him; 

"For,  behold,  these  things  have  not 
been  appointed  unto  him,  neither  shall 


76 

Saturday,  October  8 

anything  be  appointed  unto  any  of  this 
church  contrary  to  the  church  cove- 
nants." (D.  &  C.  28:11-12) 

This  revelation  straightened  Hiram 
Page  out,  but  it  did  not  end  Satan's 
efforts  to  deceive  the  brethren.  You  will 
remember  how  they  (including  some  of 
the  leaders  of  the  Church)  fought  the 
Prophet  in  the  days  of  Kirtland.  At  the 
time  of  one  attack  on  the  Prophet  when 
Brigham  Young  was  present,  he  arose 
and  said  that  Joseph  was  a  Prophet  and 
he  knew  it,  "and  that  they  who  rail  and 
slander  him  .  .  .  could  but  destroy  their 
own  authority  and  cut  the  thread  that 
bound  them  to  the  Prophet  of  God  and 
sink  themselves  to  hell." 

Referring  to  the  occasion  after  coming 
to  Utah,  he  said:  "Some  of  the  leading 
men  at  Kirtland  were  much  opposed  to 
the  Prophet  meddling  with  temporal  af- 
fairs, thinking  that  his  duty  embraced 
spiritual  things  alone  and  that  the  peo- 
ple should  be  left  to  attend  to  their 
temporal  affairs  without  any  interfer- 
ence whatever  from  prophets  and 
apostles.  In  a  public  meeting,  I  said: 
'Ye  elders  of  Israel:  Now,  will  some  of 
you  draw  the  line  of  demarcation  be- 
tween the  spiritual  and  temporal  within 
the  Kingdom  of  God,  so  that  I  may 
understand  it!'  Not  one  of  them  could 
do  it.  When  I  saw  a  man  standing  in 
the  path  before  the  Prophet,  I  felt  like 
hurling  him  out  of  the  way  and  brand- 
ing him  as  a  fool." 

Brigham  Young  was  never  deceived. 
There  were  those  who  were,  however, 
right  up  until  the  end  of  the  Prophet's 
life.  Among  them  you  will  remember 
the  Laws  and  the  Bennetts.  Even  the 
Three  Witnesses  were  deceived.  You 
know,  of  course,  what  happened  after 
the  Prophet  was  gone  and  Brother  Brig- 
ham took  over.  Lyman  Wight  and  many 
of  the  others,  strong  men  who  stood  by 
the  Prophet,  were  deceived  and  left  the 
Church. 

And  so  it  has  gone  all  through  the 
years.  Today  is  no  exception.  We  have 
people  now  who  yield  to  the  tempta- 
tions and  follow  the  counterfeits  of 
Satan.  Their  sad  situation  reminds  us 
of  the  statement  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
who,  after  recounting  some  of  the  work- 
ings of  evil  spirits  in  his  day,  said:  "A 
man  must  have  the  discerning  of  spirits 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Second  Day 

before  he  can  drag  into  daylight  this 
hellish  influence  and  unfold  it  unto  the 
world  in  all  its  soul-destroying,  diaboli- 
cal, and  horrid  colors;  for  nothing  is  a 
greater  injury  to  the  children  of  men 
than  to  be  under  the  influence  of  a  false 
spirit  when  they  think  they  have  the 
spirit  of  God.  Thousands  have  felt  the 
influence  of  its  terrible  power  and  bane- 
ful effects.  Long  pilgrimages  have  been 
undertaken,  penances  endured,  and 
pain,  misery  and  ruin  have  followed  in 
their  train;  nations  have  been  convulsed, 
kingdoms  overthrown,  provinces  laid 
waste,  and  blood,  carnage  and  desolation 
are  habiliments  in  which  it  has  been 
clothed."  (D.H.C.  4:573) 

A  paramount  consideration  for  us 
bearers  of  the  Priesthood  today  is  "How 
may  we  combat  these  onslaughts  of 
Satan?  How  can  we  distinguish  between 
his  counterfeits  and  divine  truth?"  John 
the  Revelator  gave  the  people  of  his  day 
this  test:  "Every  spirit  that  confesseth 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  come  in  the  flesh  is 
of  God."  (I  John  4:2)  Such  a  test  was 
adequate  then,  for  the  good  reason  that 
to  accept  Christ  at  that  time  was  a  cap- 
ital offense.  In  light  of  such  a  penalty, 
obviously  no  non-believer  would  confess 
him.  It  will  not  do  for  us  today,  how- 
ever, because  there  is  no  such  penalty. 
The  situation  now  is  that  although  great 
numbers  of  people  confess  Christ,  most 
of  them,  judged  by  their  beliefs  and 
practices,  deny  him. 

I  would  like  now  to  suggest  some  tests 
which  can  safely  be  used  to  distinguish 
the  genuine  from  the  counterfeit.  I  have 
already  indicated  that  many  organiza- 
tions, causes,  and  measures  may  be 
tried  by  applying  the  test  of  free  agency. 

Anything  purporting  to  pertain  to  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  may  be  put  to  the 
following  four  simple  tests: 

1.  Does  it  purport  to  originate  in  the 
wisdom  of  men,  or  was  it  revealed  from 
heaven?  If  it  originated  in  the  wisdom 
of  men,  it  is  not  of  God.  Remember 
what  the  Savior  said  to  Nicodemus, 
"Except  a  man  be  born  again,  he  can- 
not see  .  .  .  (nor)  enter  .  .  .  the  king- 
dom of  God."  (John  3:3,  5)  He  also  said, 
"My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his  that 
sent  me."  (John  7:16)  Even  Jesus  him- 
self did  not  purport  to  originate  gospel 
doctrine.  One  cannot  arrive  at  truth  by 


ELDER  MARK 

reason  alone.  We  have  already  heard 
this  theme  developed  in  this  Confer- 
ence.   I  need  not  stress  it  further. 

In  the  Book  of  Mormon  the  Prophet 
Jacob  said:  "O  that  cunning  plan  of  the 
evil  onel  O  the  vainness  of  the  frailties, 
and  the  foolishness  of  men!  When  they 
are  learned  they  think  they  are  wise, 
and  they  hearken  not  unto  the  counsel 
of  God,  for  they  set  it  aside,  supposing 
they  know  of  themselves,  wherefore, 
their  wisdom  is  foolishness  and  it  profit- 
eth  them  not.  And  they  shall  perish." 
Then  he  adds  this  lovely  sentence:  "But 
to  be  learned  is  good  if  they  hearken 
unto  the  counsels  of  God."  (2  Nephi 
9:28-29) 

You  are  all  acquainted  with  Paul's 
great  doctrine  that  the  things  of  God  are 
understood  by  the  power  of  God,  and 
that  the  things  of  men  are  understood 
by  the  wisdom  of  men.  "But  the  natural 
man  receiveth  not  the  things  of  the  Spir- 
it of  God:  for  they  are  foolishness  unto 
him:  neither  can  he  know  them,  because 
they  are  spiritually  discerned."  (I  Cor- 
inthians 2:14) 

We  never  need  to  be  deceived  by  the 
learning  of  the  world.  We  can  always 
with  safety  refect  those  doctrines  which 
are  founded  in  the  wisdom  of  men. 

2.  Does  the  teaching  bear  the  proper 
label?  You  will  remember  that  when 
his  Nephite  disciples  inquired  of  Jesus 
what  they  should  call  the  church,  he 
"said  unto  them:  Verily,  verily,  I  say 
unto  you,  why  is  it  that  the  people 
should  murmur  and  dispute  because  of 
this  thing? 

"Have  they  not  read  the  scriptures, 
which  say  ye  must  take  upon  you  the 
name  of  Christ,  which  is  my  name?  For 
by  this  name  shall  ye  be  called  at  the 
last  day; 

"And  whoso  taketh  upon  him  my 
name,  and  endureth  to  the  end,  the 
same  shall  be  saved  at  the  last  day. 

"Therefore,  whatsoever  ye  shall  do, 
ye  shall  do  it  in  my  name;  therefore 
ye  shall  call  the  church  in  my  name; 
and  ye  shall  call  upon  the  Father  in  my 
name  that  he  will  bless  the  church  for 
my  sake. 

"And  how  be  it  my  church  save  it  be 
called  in  my  name?  For  if  a  church  be 
called  in  Moses'  name  then  it  be  Moses' 
church;  or  if  it  be  called  in  the  name  of 


^  G.  ROMNEY  77 

a  man  then  it  be  the  church  of  a  man; 
but  if  it  be  called  in  my  name  then  it 
is  my  church,  if  it  so  be  that  they  are 
built  upon  my  gospel."  (3  Nephi  27:4-8) 
From  the  foregoing  it  is  perfectly  plain 
that  if  any  teaching  purporting  to  be 
from  Christ  comes  under  any  label  other 
than  that  of  Jesus  Christ,  we  can  know 
it  is  not  of  God. 

3.  The  last  phrase  of  the  above  quota- 
tion gives  us  the  third  test.  "But  if  it  be 
called  in  my  name  then  it  is  my  church, 
if  it  so  be  that  they  are  built  upon  my 
gospel."  The  teaching  must  not  only 
come  under  the  proper  label,  but  it  must 
also  conform  to  the  other  teaching  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

4.  Now  the  fourth  and  last  test  I  shall 
mention  is:  Does  it  come  through  the 
proper  Church  channel?  We  read  in  the 
42nd  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cov- 
enants: "Again  I  say  unto  you,  that  it 
shall  not  be  given  to  any  one  to  go  forth 
to  preach  my  gospel,  or  to  build  up  my 
church,  except  he  be  ordained  by  some 
one  who  has  authority,  and  it  is  known 
to  the  church  that  he  has  authority  and 
has  been  regularly  ordained  by  the  heads 
of  the  church."  (D.  &  C.  42:11.)  In  the 
light  of  this  divinely  established  order, 
how  can  any  man  accept  the  doctrine  of 
authority  from  some  secret  source  un- 
known to  the  Church?  The  Lord  could 
not  have  made  it  any  plainer  that  one's 
authority  must  come  through  the  estab- 
lished order  of  the  Church,  and  the 
President  of  the  Church  stands  at  the 
head  of  that  order.  The  Lord  has  placed 
him  there. 

"The  duty  of  the  President  of  the 
office  of  the  High  Priesthood,"  He  says, 
"is  to  preside  over  the  whole  church, 
and  to  be  like  unto  Moses — "  (D.  &  C. 
107:91)  Now  one  of  Moses'  greatest 
callings  was  to  be  a  law-giver,  to  declare 
the  Word  of  God.  Only  the  Presi- 
dent can  declare  the  doctrines  of  the 
Church. 

The  revelation  continues:  "The  duty 
of  the  President  of  the  office  of  the  High 
Priesthood  is  to  preside  over  the  whole 
church,  and  to  be  like  unto  Moses — 

"Behold,  here  is  wisdom;  yea,  to  be 
a  seer,  a  revelator,  a  translator,  and  a 
prophet,  having  all  the  gifts  of  God 
which  he  bestows  upon  the  head  of  the 
church."  (D.  &  C.  107:91-92.) 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  Octoher  8 

In  the  revelation  the  Lord  gave  to  the 
Prophet  in  answer  to  his  inquiry  about 
the  stone  which  Hiram  Page  had,  he 
said,  speaking  of  the  president  of  the 
Church):  "Wherefore,  meaning  the 
church,  thou  shalt  give  heed  unto  all 
his  words  and  commandments  which  he 
shall  give  unto  vou  as  he  receiveth  them, 
walking  in  all  holiness  before  me; 

"For  his  word  ye  shall  receive,  as  if 
from  mine  own  mouth,  in  all  patience 
and  faith"  (D.  &  C.  21:4-5) 

Such  is  the  obligation  of  this  Priest- 
hood with  respect  to  our  present  Prophet, 
Seer,  and  Revel  ator.  President  David  O. 
McKav.  "By  doing  these  things  the  gates 
of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  you; 
yea,  and  the  Lord  God  will  disperse  the 
powers  of  darkness  from  before  vou,  and 
cause  the  heavens  to  shake  for  your 
good,  and  his  name's  glory."  (D.  &  C. 
21:6) 

Now,  brethren,  if  we  will  keep  these 
things  in  mind,  we  shall  not  be  deceived 
by  false  teachings.  I  remember  years 
ago  when  I  was  a  bishop  I  had  Presi- 
dent Grant  talk  to  our  ward.  After  the 
meeting,  I  drove  him  home.  At  that 
time  there  was  a  great  deal  of  criticism 
against  the  President  of  the  Church  be- 
cause of  a  front-page  editorial  some  of 
you  may  remember.  We  talked  about 
it.  When  we  got  to  his  home  I  got  out 
of  the  car  and  went  up  on  the  porch 
with  him.  Standing  by  me,  he  put  his 
arm  over  my  shoulder  and  said:  "My  boy, 
you  always  keep  your  eye  on  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church,  and  if  he  ever  tells 
you  to  do  anything,  and  it  is  wrong, 
and  you  do  it,  the  Lord  will  bless  you 
for  it."  Then  with  a  twinkle  in  his  eye, 
he  said,  "But  you  don't  need  to  worry. 
The  Lord  will  never  let  his  mouthpiece 
lead  the  people  astray." 


Second  Day 

I  have  thought  much  about  that.  I 
remember  that  counselors  in  the  Presi- 
dency have  been  deceived.  I  remember 
that  members  of  the  Twelve  have  been 
deceived  and  left  the  Church,  and  men 
in  every  other  Council  in  the  Church 
have  been  deceived.  But  there  has  never 
been  a  President  of  the  Church,  and 
according  to  President  Grant,  and  I  be- 
lieve him.  there  never  will  be  a  Presi- 
dent of  this  Church  who  will  lead  the 
people  astray. 

We  need  not  be  led  astray,  my  breth- 
ren. The  safest  way  to  avoid  being  led 
astrav  is  to  magnify  our  Priesthood.  We 
should  go  on  our  knees,  each  one  of  us, 
morning  and  evening,  and  plead  with 
Almightv  God  to  keep  us  in  the  way  of 
magnifying  our  callings  in  this  great 
Priesthood.  We  should  live  righteously. 
We  should  resist  every  temptation  of 
lust.  When  we  harbor  lustful  thoughts 
and  participate  in  lustful  practices,  we 
cannot  see  these  great  principles  clearly, 
and  we  get  into  the  dark. 

If,  in  addition  to  living  righteously, 
we  will  study  and  learn  what  the  Lord 
has  said  and  apply  the  tests  I  have  sug- 
gested, we  shall  never  go  astray.  God 
help  us,  I  pray,  that  we  shall  remain 
true  and  faithful  ourselves,  and  help  all 
of  the  members  of  the  Church  to  see 
clearly,  thereby  placing  themselves 
among  those  who  take  the  Holy  Spirit 
for  their  guide  and  are  not  deceived,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  next  speaker  will  be  Elder 
Mark  E.  Petersen,  a  member  of  the 
Council  of  The  Twelve. 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  am  very  grateful,  my  brethren,  for  the 
marvelous  opportunity  of  addressing  you 
this  evening,  and  I  sincerely  and  hum- 
bly pray  that  the  Lord  will  guide  me 
and  inspire  me  because  I,  with  my 
Brethren,  have  learned  long  since  that 
I  can  do  nothing  of  myself.    I  have 


memorized  and  said  over  and  over  again 
so  many  times  that  scripture  wherein 
the  Lord  said,  "Without  me  ye  can  do 
nothing,"  and  I  pray  earnestly  tonight 
that  he  will  guide  me  and  help  me,  be- 
cause it  is  a  tremendous  responsibility 
to  address  so  many  men.    It  is  a  tre- 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


79 


mendous  responsibility  to  represent  this 
Church. 

But  I  glory  in  this  Church.  I  am  so 
thankful  for  it.  I  pray  God  that  I,  with 
Brother  Romney,  may  be  faithful  even 
to  the  end.  I  have  been  so  grateful  for 
the  Servicemen  whom  I  have  seen  in  this 
Conference.  I  was  glad  for  the  telegram 
President  McKay  read.  I  am  sure  that 
you  Servicemen  and  you  parents  of 
Servicemen  will  be  very  glad  to  know, 
and  on  behalf  of  our  Servicemen's  Com- 
mittee which  is  headed  by  our  wonder- 
ful chairman,  Brother  Lee,  we  would 
like  to  report  to  President  McKay  and 
the  First  Presidency  that  all  of  the  stake 
presidents  of  the  Church  reported  to  us 
today  that  they  have  now  taken  out 
subscriptions  to  the  Improvement  Era 
and  the  Church  Section  of  the  Deseret 
News  for  every  person  in  the  military 
service  of  this  Church.  That  was  com- 
pleted today,  President  McKay,  and  we 
are  so  thrilled  with  it.  Under  Brother 
Lee's  wonderful  direction  we  have  been 
working  on  this,  and  now  we  can  report 
to  you  that  the  stake  presidents  have  re- 
ported one  hundred  percent  accomplish- 
ment of  that  wonderful  assignment. 

So,  brethren,  we  wish  to  thank  you, 
and  we  hope  that  you  will  continue  with 
the  program.  Brother  Lee  asks  that  I 
mention  the  rest  of  the  program  in  addi- 
tion to  the  publications.  Be  sure,  bish- 
ops, to  carry  on  your  interviews.  Bishops 
and  quorum  people,  will  you  remember 
to  continue  to  write  to  these  Servicemen 
and  encourage  them.  They  need  your 
help,  and  they  will  be  the  stronger  for 
it  and  so  will  you,  if  you  cooperate  with 
this  program. 

I  desire  to  address  my  remarks  tonight 
to  the  young  men  of  the  Church,  to  the 
boys  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  and  to 
the  younger  men  in  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood.  When  President  James 
prayed  here  tonight,  opening  this  meet- 
ing, he  thanked  the  Lord  that  we  were 
born  at  this  time,  and  it  is  surely  some- 
thing to  be  thankful  for  because  it  is  a 
marvelous  time  in  which  to  live.  But 
it  is  also  a  very  troublous  time,  and 
many  of  our  young  men  are  very  dis- 
couraged about  the  prospects  which  con- 
front them.  Many  of  our  young  men 
are  quite  frustrated,  in  fact,  not  know- 
ing how  to  plan  their  lives  nor  what 
to  do  about  them.  Some  ask  themselves, 


"Shall  I  go  to  school,  or  shall  I  just  wait 
until  I  am  drafted?  Shall  I  enlist  and 
get  the  military  obligation  over  with? 
Shall  I  prepare  for  a  mission,  or  shall  I 
just  drift  along?" 

They  know,  of  course,  that  just  drift- 
ing does  not  get  them  anywhere.  If 
we  are  to  be  successful  in  life  we  must 
plan  our  lives.  But  some  of  the  boys 
say,  "How  can  we  plan?  Our  lives  are 
planned  for  us.  There  is  nothing  we 
can  do  about  it.  We  can  go  to  school 
for  awhile,  and  then  we  will  have  to 
go  into  the  Army.  We  will  have  other 
obligations  too.  We  cannot  plan  our 
own  lives,"  some  boys  have  told  me. 

A  couple  of  weeks  ago  I  was  down 
near  Ft.  Ord,  California,  and  talked  to 
quite  a  number  of  our  young  Service- 
men there.  They  were  very  disturbed 
as  to  what  the  future  holds  for  them.  I 
have  told  the  young  men,  as  well  as  the 
young  women  of  this  Church,  that  they 
are  born  to  a  great  destiny,  a  divine 
destiny.  They  are  in  very  deed  the 
children  of  God. 

But  there  are  some  who  do  not  believe 
in  God.  I  remember  one  young  man 
who  came  to  me  and  wanted  to  argue 
about  this  after  I  had  given  a  discus- 
sion in  a  meeting,  and  he  said,  "I  have 
learned  in  school  that  there  isn't  any 
God,  and  I  have  been  fully  convinced. 
I  no  longer  believe  that  there  is  a  God." 

I  begin  to  wonder  about  young  men 
and  about  people  in  general  who  do  not 
believe  in  God.  There  are  lots  of  them. 
Do  you  know  that  about  75  million 
Americans  do  not  even  belong  to  any 
church?  Do  you  know  that  about  25 
million  more  who  do  belong  to  churches 
take  no  part  whatever  in  them,  making 
a  total  of  about  100  million  Americans 
who,  for  some  reason  or  another,  have 
almost  completely  excluded  God  from 
their  lives? 

When  I  talk  with  young  people  about 
such  a  situation,  I  always  like  to  ask 
them  to  consider  the  fruits  of  godless- 
ness.  What  does  it  do  to  you  to  be 
without  God?  What  does  it  do  to  you 
to  be  without  religion?  Can  it  benefit 
you,  or  can  it  hurt  you?  I  ask  them 
to  look  around  and  see  what  kind  of 
people  the  godless  people  are.  I  read 
a  very  interesting  discussion  the  other 
day  by  one  of  our  great  Americans, 
Mr.  J.  Edgar  Hoover,  a  man  whom  I 


80  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  8 

respect  highly.  He  pointed  out  in  this 
discussion  that  one  of  the  outstanding 
fruits  of  godlessness  in  the  world  right 
now  is  Communism.  Communism,  he 
says,  is  a  direct  result  of  godlessness. 
Men  who  do  not  believe  in  God,  who 
fight  God,  who  put  God  out  of  their 
lives,  and  try  to  eliminate  him  from  the 
lives  of  everybody  else  are  the  ones  who 
produced  Communism. 

Is  Communism  something  that  you 
would  like  to  take  into  your  life?  It  is 
one  of  the  fruits  of  godlessness.  Do  you 
want  to  have  within  you  the  fruits — or 
rather  I  should  say  the  seeds  of  Com- 
munism? Do  you  realize  that  the  seeds 
of  Communism  are  sprouting  even  now 
from  godlessness? 

You  know  what  Communism  has  done 
to  the  world.  You  know  how  it  has 
spread.  You  remember  Hungary,  don't 
you?  And  you  remember  Poland?  Do 
you  want  to  have  anything  like  that  in 
your  life?  Do  you  want  the  fruits  of 
godlessness  to  become  a  part  of  you  and 
your  future? 

Is  there  any  real  reason  to  disbelieve 
in  God?  There  are  some  who  say, 
"Well,  I  learned  in  school  that  there  is 
no  God.  I  have  learned  that  there  are 
other  reasons  for  creation."  I  was  very 
interested  the  other  day  to  read  a  speech 
by  one  of  the  great  scientists  of  the 
world.  He,  with  many  others  of  his 
intellectual  attainment,  have  reached  the 
conclusion  that  all  of  the  arguments  in 
times  past  to  the  effect  that  science  has 
abolished  God  are  false.  One  of  the 
great  writers  of  America  has  said  that 
rather  than  science  abolishing  God, 
science  is  now  virtually  abolishing 
atheism. 

The  present  day  attitude  of  top  scien- 
tists was  expressed  recently  by  Dr. 
Joseph  W.  Barker,  president  and  chair- 
man of  the  Research  Corporation  of 
America,  and  formerly  Dean  of  the 
Engineering  School  at  Columbia  Uni- 
versity. He  explained  that  scientists  of 
the  nineteenth  century  were  misled  by 
certain  of  their  observations,  and  as  a 
result  came  to  conclusions  which  were 
definitely  atheistic.  "But  now,"  said 
Dr.  Barker,  "even  the  most  pragmatic 
materialist  in  the  face  of  present  day 
scientific  knowledge  is  led  to  the  in- 
evitable conclusion  that  the  heavens  de- 
clare the  glory  of  God  and  the  firmament 
shows  of  his  handiwork." 


Second  Day 

Dr.  Barker's  concluding  remarks  on 
that  occasion  were  these:  "As  the  chil- 
dren of  Israel  foreswore  the  worship  of 
the  golden  calf  and  returned  to  the  faith 
of  Jehovah,  so  we  have  foresworn  the 
crass  mechanistic  materialism  and  re- 
turned to  the  faith  in  God  of  which  the 
Psalmist  of  old  sang,  'The  earth  is  the 
Lord's  and  all  that  therein  is.'  " 

The  day  is  past,  my  young  brethren, 
when  we  have  to  be  shaken  in  our  faith 
by  the  pseudo  teachings  of  certain  men. 
The  day  is  past  when  we  need  to  doubt 
that  God  lives.  The  great  minds  of 
the  world  today  now  teach  there  is  a 
God.  He  does  live.  They  teach  that  he 
is  a  great  mathematician.  They  teach 
that  he  is  the  Creator  of  the  universe, 
and  they  say  that  this  great  Deity  who 
made  the  universe  must  be  a  person 
because  they  see  purpose  in  all  creation, 
and  you  cannot  have  purpose  without  a 
person.  Therefore,  they  say,  God,  the 
Creator,  is  a  person. 

But  we  do  not  take  our  faith  from 
science,  do  we?  We  receive  our  faith  in 
God  from  revelation,  and  we  who  live 
now,  in  the  words  of  President  James 
who  offered  the  opening  prayer,  may 
well  be  thankful  that  we  live  now  be- 
cause God  has  appeared  in  modern  times, 
in  modern  United  States  of  America. 
He  has  appeared  to  modern  men,  and 
modern  men  have  seen  him,  seen  his 
face  and  figure,  and  have  written  de- 
scriptions of  him.  They  have  talked 
with  him  face  to  face.  They  are  compe- 
tent witnesses. 

There  need  be  no  doubt  in  anybody's 
mind  now  about  God.  He  lives.  He 
has  been  in  the  United  States  in  modern 
times,  and  these  competent  witnesses 
leave  you  their  testimony,  and  we  leave 
you  our  testimony  that  we  know  that 
he  lives  because  he  has  been  seen  and 
heard  in  America,  in  these,  the  last  days. 
We  are  his  children,  and  because  we 
are  his  children  we  may  become  like 
him.  Because  we  are  his  children  he 
has  raised  us  up  at  this  time  of  the 
world's  history  to  do  a  particular  work, 
and  the  accomplishment  of  that  work  is 
the  great  destiny  to  which  you  and  I 
have  been  born. 

We  have  been  placed  in  the  earth 
now  to  fulfill  that  destiny.  Our  destiny 
is  that  as  his  servants  we  shall  prepare 
the  way  for  his  coming  in  glory  in  the 
future,  not  too  far  distant. 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


81 


Are  you  willing,  young  people,  to  ac- 
cept that  destiny?  Are  you  willing  to 
so  live  that  you  may  fill  this  destiny? 
Are  you  going  to  catch  the  picture  of 
your  own  identity  and  know  that  you 
are  a  child  of  God,  and  that  you  are  not 
a  descendant  of  some  monkey  or  some 
ape,  but  that  you  are  actually  the  de- 
scendant of  God  Almighty  on  High, 
and  that  you  are  of  the  race  of  divinity? 

Are  you  willing  to  accept  that  doc- 
trine? Isn't  it  far  better  to  accept  the 
doctrine  that  you  are  a  child  of  God 
than  that  you  are  a  descendant  of  some 
lower  form  of  life  not  even  as  high  as 
you? 

Yes,  we  have  our  destiny,  and  the 
destiny  is  divine.  It  is  that  you  and  I 
must  live  and  work  in  this  Kingdom,  and 
as  his  servants  accomplish  the  great 
work  that  he  has  given  us.  We  were 
born  with  a  purpose.  We  must  fulfill 
that  purpose. 

But  sometimes  we  allow  other  things 
to  interfere  with  our  destiny.  Are  you 
willing  to  allow  anything  to  interfere 
with  yours?  Are  you  willing  to  allow 
selfishness,  convenience,  or  so-called 
popularity  to  interfere?  Are  you  will- 
ing to  give  up  your  right  to  fulfill  a 
great  divine  destiny  because  you  want 
to  be  popular  with  a  given  crowd  at 
school,  or  because  you  want  to  make  an 
impression,  because  you  want  to  make  a 
"grandstand  play?"  Is  a  "grandstand 
play"  worth  the  loss  of  your  birthright? 
Is  popularity  with  a  questionable  crowd 
worth  it? 

This  discussion  of  Mr.  Hoover,  to 
which  I  referred,  was  most  interesting. 
He  said  there  are  two  great  enemies  of 
America  today.  They  are  twin  enemies, 
he  said.  One  is  Communism.  The 
other  is  crime.  He  said  that  both  of 
them  sprout  from  Godlessness.  As  Com- 
munism is  a  threat  to  America,  so  is 
crime.  But  they  both  grow  out  of 
Godlessness.  Mr.  Hoover  appealed  to 
all  Americans  to  restore  their  faith  in 
God  as  a  safeguard  to  our  nation.  He 
actually  gave  us  a  warning  that  either 
the  faith  of  our  fathers  will  triumph,  or 
this  country  will  be  dominated  and 
controlled  by  either  Communism  or 
crime,  or  both. 

Well,  young  people,  Communism 
to  you  seems  very  remote,  doesn't  it? 
And  so  does  crime.   I  know  that.  But 


in  the  last  few  weeks  hasn't  Mr.  Khrush- 
chev brought  Communism  very  close  to 
you?  Don't  you  see  in  him  a  personal 
antagonist,  your  own  personal  antagon- 
ist? Wouldn't  he  like  to  destroy  you  if 
he  could?  Wouldn't  he  like  to  enslave 
you?  Communism  does  seem  remote 
to  you,  but  remember  that  it  can  come 
awfully  close.  With  one  word  from 
Khrushchev  he  could  cast  you  into  war. 
You  must  give  consideration  to  him. 
You  cannot  ignore  him.  He  is  more 
than  a  name  in  the  world  news. 

And  crime  seems  rather  remote  to 
most  of  you.  Why  do  we  talk  about 
crime?  We  talk  about  it  because  crime, 
like  Communism  and  much  else  begins 
with  the  small  things.  Every  little  thing 
that  you  do  wrong  might  lead  to  a 
criminal  tendency.  It  may  seem  very 
small  at  first.  It  may  be  cheating  in 
school.  It  may  be  lying  to  your  par- 
ents. It  may  be  that  you  take  some 
property  that  doesn't  belong  to  you. 
It  may  be  that  you  go  out  on  a  petting 
party.  It  may  be  that  it  would  be  as 
terrible  as  stealing  the  virtue  of  some 
lovely  girl.   Is  that  crime? 

I  would  like  you  to  know  that  so  far 
as  I  am  concerned,  I  think  it  is  worse 
to  steal  the  virtue  of  a  girl  than  it  is 
to  rob  a  bank.  Crime — how  does  it 
start?  Are  you  going  to  let  these  things — 
a  lie  here,  a  petting  party  there — inter- 
fere with  the  great  destiny  that  you 
have?  Are  you  going  to  let  your  per- 
sonal convenience  now  interfere  with 
your  whole  plan  of  life  for  the  future? 
Or  are  you  willing  to  sit  down  and  plan 
your  life?  If  you  don't  plan  you  will 
fail. 

Somebody  once  said  that  to  fail  to 
prepare  is  to  prepare  to  fail.  That  is 
true  with  our  schooling,  it  is  true  with 
our  work,  it  is  true  with  our  dating,  it 
is  true  with  every  phase  of  our  lives. 
Young  people,  as  the  children  of  God, 
will  you  plan  for  success?  You  do  not 
need  to  be  frightened  about  the  world 
conditions,  because  if  you  are  true  and 
faithful  God  will  protect  you,  and  he 
will  bless  you. 

May  I  read  to  you  one  of  the  great 
promises  that  the  Lord  has  given?  I 
put  a  lot  of  confidence  in  this  promise. 
It  is  found  in  the  last  chapter  of  First 
Nephi.  This  is  why  I  say  I  don't  fear 
the  conditions  of  the  world  too  much. 


82 

Saturday,  October  8 

If  we  will  do  our  part,  and  if  we  will 
fulfill  our  destiny  we  will  achieve  exactly 
what  the  Lord  has  for  us,  and  we  will 
be  protected  in  doing  it.  I  would  like 
you  to  know  that  in  these,  the  last  days, 
the  Lord  has  predicted  that  there  shall 
be  two  simultaneous  movements.  One 
of  these  movements  is  the  great  tribula- 
tion that  shall  come  upon  the  world. 
The  wicked  will  destroy  the  wicked. 

The  other  great  movement  which  will 
be  going  forward  simultaneously  is  that 
there  shall  be  a  stone  cut  out  of  the 
mountain  without  hands,  and  it  shall 
roll  forth  and  eventually  fill  the  whole 
earth.  The  Church  to  which  you  and 
I  belong  is  that  stone.  It  has  been  cut 
out  of  the  mountain  without  hands,  and 
your  destiny  and  mine  is  to  help  roll 
it  forth. 

Now  do  you  suppose  for  one  mo- 
ment that  the  judgments  of  God  are 
going  to  interfere  with  the  progress  of 
his  work?  He  is  consistent,  isn't  he? 
Although  he  will  pour  out  his  tribula- 
tions upon  the  wicked,  he  nevertheless 
will  carry  forward  his  work,  and  his 
people,  under  divine  protection,  will  roll 
forth  that  stone  until  eventually  it  fills 
the  whole  earth. 

And  so,  says  the  Book  of  Mormon: 

"For  the  time  soon  cometh  that  the 
fulness  of  the  wrath  of  God  shall  be 
poured  out  upon  all  the  children  of 
men;  for  he  will  not  suffer  that  the 
wicked  shall  destroy  the  righteous. 

"Wherefore,  he  will  preserve  the 
righteous  by  his  power,  even  if  it  so 
be  that  the  fulness  of  his  wrath  must 
come,  and  the  righteous  be  preserved, 
even  unto  the  destruction  of  their  ene- 
mies by  fire.  Wherefore,  the  righteous 
need  not  fear;  for  thus  saith  the  prophet, 
they  shall  be  saved,  even  if  it  so  be  as 
by  fire."  (I  Nephi  22:16-17.) 

I  believe  that.  In  the  midst  of  all 
these  tribulations  God  will  send  fire 
from  heaven,  if  necessary,  to  destroy 
our  enemies  while  we  carry  forward  our 
work  and  push  that  stone  until  it  fills 
the  whole  earth! 

Your  destiny  is  to  do  that  very  thing, 
and  this  is  the  kind  of  protection  you 
will  have.  You  do  not  need  to  fear 
about  world  conditions.  You  do  not 
need  to  fear  about  anybody.  Just  serve 
the  Lord  and  keep  his  commandments 
and  build  the  Kingdom,  and  as  you  do 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

so  you  will  be  protected  in  these  last 
days.  God  will  have  his  hand  over 
you,  and  you  can  plan  your  lives  in 
confidence.  Every  one  of  you  can  plan 
a  wonderful  life,  a  wonderful  success, 
but  you  must  plan. 

Now  what  shall  we  plan  for?  We 
must  plan  to  stay  with  the  Church  first, 
last,  and  always.  We  will  plan  to  under- 
stand the  doctrines  of  the  Church  and 
the  proceedings  of  the  Church  so  that 
we  will  understand  our  true  destiny. 
We  will  study  the  gospel  and  be  in- 
formed. We  cannot  leave  ourselves  in 
darkness  or  ignorance  about  our  princi- 
pal assignment  in  life.  We  will  plan 
also  to  go  to  school  and  make  the  most 
of  our  educational  opportunities,  but 
we  will  not  allow  worldly  theories  to 
upset  our  faith. 

We  will  dedicate  ourselves  to  the 
living  of  the  clean  life.  We  will  never 
allow  sin  to  disqualify  us  for  our  destiny. 
We  will  choose  good  friends,  clean  and 
faithful  like  ourselves.  They  will  help 
us  on  to  our  destiny.  We  will  be  a  help 
to  them.  We  will  consider  a  most  im- 
portant step  in  fulfilling  our  destiny 
the  acceptance  of  a  full  time  mission  for 
the  Church,  and  looking  toward  that 
acceptance  we  will  plan  for  it  over  the 
years.  A  mission  is  a  must  in  the 
planning  of  our  lives.  We  must  not  at 
any  time  allow  unwholesome  acts  to 
interfere  with  that  planning.  It  will  be 
our  first  great  step  in  helping  to  build 
the  Kingdom  of  God. 

We  will  plan  for  a  temple  marriage. 
We  can  never  fulfill  our  destiny  with- 
out it.  That  means  we  will  date  LDS 
girls — girls  as  clean  as  ourselves,  as 
full  of  faith  as  ourselves.  We  will  never 
let  our  dating  practices  put  any  road- 
blocks in  our  way  as  we  move  on  the 
road  to  destiny.  We  will  be  honest  with 
all  other  people.  We  will  be  honest 
with  ourselves  and  never  try  to  kid  our- 
selves into  thinking  that  we  can  get 
away  with  evil  and  still  make  the  grade, 
if  you  will  excuse  that  slang. 

We  will  be  true.  We  will  be  true  to 
our  loved  ones,  true  to  our  country,  true 
to  ourselves,  and  true  to  our  God.  We 
will  live  up  to  the  best  that  is  in  us.  We 
will  live  up  to  our  trust  in  God  and 
the  trust  he  places  in  us,  for  we  know 
that  he  lives.  We  know  that  he  is  our 
Father.  We  know  that  we  can  become 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


83 


like  him.  We  know  that  the  Priest- 
hood we  have  received  is  authority  to 
be  his  servants  in  these,  the  last  days, 
to  help  build  the  Kingdom,  to  strengthen 
others,  and  to  prepare  for  the  Second 
Coming  of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus 
Christ. 

Young  people,  you  are  a  people  of 
destiny.  You  were  not  born  to  fail. 
You  were  born  to  succeed.  You  were 
born  to  accomplish  a  great  work  here 
and  now.  You  were  not  born  to  be 
blinded  by  the  sophistries  of  men.  You 
were  born  to  be  bright  and  intelligent 
and  have  your  eyes  open,  remembering 
that  as  the  glory  of  God  is  intelligence, 
so  it  is  the  glory  of  every  one  of  us.  It 
is  intelligent  to  believe  in  God.  It  is 
intelligent  to  serve  him.  It  is  intelligent 
to  declare  our  allegiance  to  him.  It  is 
intelligent  to  take  the  responsibility 
upon  ourselves  and  move  forward  in  the 
great  assignment  that  he  has  given. 


Be  honest  with  yourselves.  Live  up 
to  the  best  that  is  in  you.  Do  not  sell 
your  birthright  for  a  mess  of  pottage. 
Be  true  to  the  faith  and  God  will  be 
true  to  you  no  matter  what  the  future 
may  hold. 

This  is  my  testimony  to  you  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Richard  P.  Condie  will  now 
lead  the  congregation  and  the  Male 
Chorus  in  singing,  "Do  What  Is  Right." 


The  congregation  and  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  Men's  Chorus  joined  in  singing 
the  hymn,  "Do  What  Is  Right." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the  First 
Presidency  will  now  address  us. 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  beloved  fellow  workers,  I  have  a 
humble  desire  to  come  before  you  to- 
night, not  only  those  who  are  here 
assembled,  but  those  who  are  gathering, 
and  have  gathered,  and  are  now  in  the 
many  meeting  places  throughout  the 
United  States,  Canada,  and  New  Zea- 
land. It  is  wonderful  to  be  a  fellow 
worker  with  you  in  this  great  missionary 
cause  of  the  Church.  I  am  so  grateful 
that  this  missionary  endeavor  does  not 
confine  itself  to  what  we  call  the  mis- 
sions of  the  world.  It  has  become  and 
is  now  part  and  parcel  of  the  work  of 
every  stake  of  Zion,  as  well  as  every 
mission.  It  is  my  hope  and  prayer  to- 
night that  we  are  not  far  distant  from 
the  time  when  there  will  be  less  and 
less  differentiation  between  stake  mis- 
sions and  full  time  missions. 

Brethren,  my  message  to  you  tonight 
is  that  they  are  one.  We  are  one,  and 
all  of  us  who  have  fellowship  in  this 
Church  are  one  in  promulgating  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  our  fellowmen, 
wherever  we  may  be,  either  at  home  or 
abroad.  Now  that  message  seems  so 
simple  that  you  wonder  why  I  would 
take  the  precious  time  remaining  in  this 
meeting  to  discuss  it  further.  There 


are,  however,  some  details  pertaining  to 
this  work  which  have  not  permitted  us 
in  the  past  to  proceed  with  as  great  a 
unity  as  we  might. 

Into  this  great  missionary  movement 
of  the  Church  have  come  prominently 
to  the  fore  what  we  now  call  referrals. 
Some  of  our  mission  presidents  love  to 
call  it  "sharing  the  gospel,"  and  in 
undertaking  to  carry  out  this  detail  of  the 
work  there  has  seemed  to  be  sort  of 
a  natural  inclination  upon  the  part  of 
those  laboring  in  the  stakes  to  exclude 
the  full  time  missions,  and  I  presume 
equal  thought  on  the  part  of  the  full 
time  missions  to  preclude  sharing  their 
opportunities  with  the  stake  missions. 

Brethren,  this  just  must  not  be!  Pos- 
sibly at  the  root  of  this  difficulty  is  the 
question  of  records,  of  statistics.  We 
become  proud  of  our  performance.  We 
want  to  make  a  showing.  We  want  to 
stand  at  the  head  of  the  list.  I  wonder 
if  it  were  possible  to  devise  statistics 
which  would  register  what  I  shall  call, 
for  convenience,  our  unselfishness  in  this 
respect?  What  does  it  matter  whether 
the  stake  mission  or  the  full  time  mission 
gets  the  credit  for  a  baptism?  All  we 
are  interested  in  is  the  conversion  of 


84  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  8 

those  who  will  repent  of  their  sins, 
acknowledge  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Son  of 
God,  and  accept  his  gospel  as  it  has 
been  restored  in  these  latter  days  in  its 
fulness  to  the  world  through  the  in- 
strumentality of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith. 

Brethren,  we  must  rise  above  any 
personal  ambitions  or  desires.  How 
grateful  the  General  Authorities  are  for 
those  glorious  meetings  we  have  held 
with  these  wonderful  mission  presidents, 
as  they  have  come  in  from  the  various 
missions  of  the  Church  in  the  United 
States  and  in  Canada,  Mexico,  Central 
America,  and  Hawaii. 

Mission  president  after  mission  presi- 
dent reported  that  they  had  no  trouble 
because  where  they  worked  conjointly 
with  the  stake  missions  they  shared  the 
baptisms  50-50,  and  they  did  not  ask  a 
question  as  to  whether  the  success  of 
the  stake  mission  equalled  the  full  time 
mission,  nor  whether  the  full  time  mis- 
sion equalled  that  of  the  stake.  I  was 
further  thrilled,  as  were  all  of  my 
Brethren  who  attended  those  meetings, 
to  see  how  there  had  come  about  such  a 
close  correlation  of  the  activities  of  these 
two  great  groups  of  missions.  When  it 
was  possible  of  an  evening  for  the  stake 
missionaries  to  divide  up  with  the  full 
time  missionaries  they  would  go  out 
together,  and  each  benefit  and  profit  by 
the  experience  and  faithfulness  of  one 
another. 

The  stake  missionary  can  bring  into 
the  life  of  our  young  full  time  mission- 
aries a  stability  and  integrity,  a  devotion, 
a  loyalty,  and  dedication,  that  can  only 
come  to  us  through  years  of  constant 
service  to  the  Master.  And  then  on  the 
other  hand,  these  young  men,  thrilled 
as  they  are  with  their  early  experiences 
in  the  mission  field  of  sensing  the  power 
that  there  is  in  the  Priesthood  which 
they  bear,  when  they  first  sense  how  the 
Lord  has  magnified  them  in  their  calling, 
why  the  thrill  of  it  just  sets  them  on 
fire,  and  that  fire  carries  over  to  some 
of  us  older  ones  in  the  stake  missions 
who  enjoyed  that  same  fire  many  years 
ago,  and  we  enjoy  coming  in  such  close 
contact  with  it  now. 

And  what  is  the  result?  Experience 
after  experience  in  the  mission  field 
indicates  that  those  who  have  not  been 
touched  by  the  missionary  labors  of  the 


Second  Day 

stake  mission,  or  in  other  instances  by 
the  labors  of  the  full  time  missionaries, 
have  been  converted  by  the  joint  effort 
of  a  stake  missionary  and  a  full  time 
missionary  laboring  for  the  time  being 
in  the  same  cause  and  in  the  same  fam- 
ily, or  in  the  same  group. 

Now,  we  do  not  particularly  feel  it 
wise  to  inter-mix  or  to  intermingle  our 
missionaries  in  this  fashion — at  least  I 
feel  a  word  of  caution  should  be  given — 
except  where  there  is  a  result  to  be  ac- 
complished, except  that  there  is  a  specific 
purpose  concurred  in  by  the  president 
of  the  stake  mission  and  the  president 
of  the  full  time  mission. 

I  had  hoped  during  this  Conference, 
along  with  my  close,  beloved  associate, 
Brother  Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  that  we 
might  have  had  a  meeting  of  all  of  the 
stake  mission  presidents  and  the  stake 
presidents  and  our  full  time  presidents, 
in  order  that  we  might  sit  down  and 
plan  a  program  mutually  agreeable  by 
which  the  greatest  possible  unity  might 
be  brought  about  in  this  matter  of  co- 
operating and  coordinating  the  work  of 
these  two  branches  of  our  missionary 
endeavor. 

Finally,  we  came  to  this  conclusion, 
and  I  am  sure  in  arriving  at  it  we  were 
inspired,  that  all  we  needed  to  do  was 
to  call  it  to  the  attention  of  you  breth- 
ren here  tonight,  and  who  might  hear 
us  over  these  271  stations  of  this  closed 
circuit  network.  This  is  the  solution 
which  we  propose — that  you  get  to- 
gether without  us  and  work  out  your 
own  problem  in  unity. 

This  is  the  order  of  the  Church.  To 
the  extent  that  we  can  so  diversify  the 
activities  of  the  Church  so  that  almost 
the  full  load  of  our  responsibilities  rests 
upon  us  in  the  wards  and  in  the  stakes 
of  the  Church,  and  we  become  less  and 
less  dependent  upon  direction,  so  far 
as  details  are  concerned,  from  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church,  the  stronger 
the  Church  will  grow. 

I  want  to  say  in  conclusion  that  that 
reaches  also  to  the  use  of  our  facilities. 
There  should  never  be  any  hesitancy 
upon  the  part  of  a  bishop  or  his 
custodian  to  make  every  facility  the 
Church  owns  available  to  the  mission 
president  at  his  single  request  in  order 
that  we  may  not  have  any  lost  motion 
in  this  work.    If  there  are  any  costs 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


85 


involved  in  the  use  which  the  full  time 
missions  may  make  of  the  facilities  of 
the  wards  and  the  stakes,  we  want  you 
bishops  and  you  stake  presidents  to 
determine  whether  you  would  like  to 
absorb  that  locally  as  part  of  your  con- 
tribution to  the  great  missionary  cause, 
or  want  to  send  the  full  time  missions 
a  bill  for  it. 

Now  we  do  not  want  to  make  that 
decision  for  you.  All  we  want  is  that 
the  facilities  which  the  Lord  has  blessed 
us  with  in  the  wards  and  stakes  of  Zion 
be  utilized  to  the  fullest  extent  for  the 
carrying  on  of  the  promulgation  of  the 
gospel,  regardless  of  what  agency  may 
have  need  for  it  at  the  moment.  Let 
each  agency  make  its  own  decision  as 
to  its  need  of  these  facilities.  A  ward 
should  not  make  this  decision  for  the 
mission. 

Let  me  say  in  conclusion  that  I  am 
sure  that  as  we  do  this  we  will  not  only 
grow  and  develop  the  strength  of  our 
stakes,  but  we  will  make  it  possible  for 
our  bishops  to  fully  fellowship  every 


convert  who  comes  from  the  mission.  I 
hope  there  is  not  a  bishop  in  the  Church 
who  will  presume  to  pass  judgment  upon 
what  a  mission  president  does  in  deter- 
mining who  should  be  baptized  and  who 
should  not.  I  tell  you  solemnly  this 
evening,  my  brethren,  the  presidents  of 
our  missions  have  read  the  37th  Verse 
of  the  20th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  just  as  often  as  any  bishop, 
and  are  just  as  much  impressed  with 
the  importance  of  following  its  mandate 
implicitly,  but  when  a  stake  president 
speaks  and  a  convert  is  baptized,  let  the 
responsibility  for  that  conversion  rest 
upon  the  stake  president  and  bishop.  It 
does  not  lie  within  the  province  of  any 
bishop  to  challenge  it  any  more  than  it 
would  lie  in  the  mouth  of  a  mission 
president  to  challenge  the  judgment  of 
the  bishop  under  like  circumstances. 

God  bless  us,  brethren,  and  let  us  go 
forward  as  one,  united  in  the  work  of 
the  Lord,  I  pray  humbly,  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


Brethren  we  have  had  great  mes- 
sages tonight.  I  hope  the  vast  audience 
will  have  been  aroused  to  the  realization 
that  the  enemies  to  truth  are  just  as 
active  today  as  they  have  been  since 
Christ  was  tempted,  and  before  when 
two  powers  stood  before  the  Creator  and 
each  presented  his  plan. 

I  hope  there  will  be  just  as  much 
realization  that  the  responsibility  to 
teach  the  truth  rests  upon  the  Priest- 
hood of  the  Church  as  it  ever  has  done. 

This  evening,  just  before  coming  to 
this  meeting,  I  read  a  line  from  the 
Chief  Apostle  two  thousand  years  ago. 
He  addressed  the  elders  of  the  Church 
and  said,  "I  am  also  an  elder  and  a 
witness  of  Christ,  and  also  a  partaker 
of  the  glory  that  shall  be  revealed. 
Feed  the  flock  of  God.  Be  examples  to 
the  flock.  Be  sober,  vigilant,  because 
your  adversary,  the  Devil,  as  a  roaring 
lion  walketh  about  seeking  whom  he 
may  devour,  whom  resist,  steadfast  in 
the  faith,  knowing  that  the  same  afflic- 
tions are  accomplished  in  your  brethren 
that  are  in  the  world."  Be  examples  to 
the  flock. 

Now,  a  testimony.   The  older  I  grow 


the  more  grateful  I  am  for  my  parents, 
for  how  they  lived  the  gospel  in  that 
old  country  home.  Father  used  to  preach 
it,  even  to  visitors  who  stayed  at 
the  house — and  that  was  a  stopping 
place  for  them — both  father  and  mother 
lived  the  gospel. 

I  have  realized  throughout  this  con- 
ference, as  perhaps  never  before,  that 
my  testimony  of  the  reality  of  the  ex- 
istence of  God  dates  back  to  that  home 
when  I  was  a  child,  and  it  was  through 
their  teachings  and  their  examples  that 
I  received  then  the  knowledge  of  the 
reality  of  the  spiritual  world;  and  I  test- 
ify that  it  is  a  reality. 

It  is  just  as  easy  for  me  to  accept  as 
a  divine  truth  the  fact  that  Christ 
preached  to  the  spirits  in  prison  while 
his  body  lay  in  the  tomb  as  it  is  for  me 
to  look  into  your  faces  tonight.  His  body 
was  silent.  His  spirit  was  in  the  spir- 
itual realm  with  his  father.    It  is  true. 

And  it  is  just  as  easy  for  me  to 
realize  that  one  may  so  live  that  he 
may  receive  impressions  and  direct  mes- 
sages through  the  Holy  Ghost.  The 
veil  is  thin  between  those  who  hold 
the  Priesthood  and  those  on  the  other 


86 

Saturday,  October  8 

side  of  the  veil.  That  testimony  be- 
gan, I  repeat,  in  the  home  in  my  youth 
because  of  the  example  of  a  father 
who  honored  the  Priesthood — and  his 
wife,  who  sustained  him  and  lived  it 
in  the  home. 

I  do  not  know  that  Peter  had  that  in 
mind  particularly  when  he  mentioned 
being  an  example  to  the  flock,  but  I 
know  that  such  a  home  is  a  part  of  that 
flock.  The  influence  you  spread  in  your 
home  will  go  throughout  the  town,  will 
go  throughout  the  county,  the  wards, 
and  the  stakes.  The  most  precious  thing 
in  the  world  is  a  testimony  of  the  truth. 
Truth  never  grows  old,  and  the  truth 
is  that  God  is  the  source  of  your  Priest- 
hood and  mine.  The  truth  is  that  he 
lives;  that  Jesus  Christ,  the  Great  High 
Priest,  stands  at  the  Head  of  the  Church 
and  that  every  man  who  holds  the 
Priesthood,  if  he  lives  properly,  soberly, 
industriously,  humbly  and  prayerfully, 
is  entitled  to  the  inspiration  and  guid- 
ance of  the  Holy  Spirit.  I  know  that 
is  true. 

God  help  us  to  defend  the  truth — 
better  than  that,  to  live  it.  Exemplify  it 
in  our  homes.  What  we  owe  to  our 
parents  we  cannot  express.  Are  you 
going  to  have  that  same  influence  on 
your  children,  parents — fathers  and 
mothers?  God  give  you  power  so  to 
have  that  they  may  be  true  to  the  last, 
to  death  if  necessary,  to  the  truth  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  that  magnifies 
God,  our  Father,  who  looks  as  our 
leader  and  Saviour,  and  Redeemer  of 
the  World,  to  his  Beloved  son,  Jesus 
Christ;  that  they  appeared  to  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  and  revealed  themselves 
in  this  Dispensation;  that  his  work  is 
established,  nevermore  to  be  thrown 
down  or  given  to  another  people. 

Satan  is  still  determined  to  have 
his  way,  and  his  emissaries  have  power 
given  them  today  as  they  have  not  had 
throughout  the  centuries.  Be  prepared 
to  meet  conditions  that  may  be  severe 
— ideological  conditions  that  seem  reas- 
onable— but  depend  upon  that  spirit 
within.  You  are  entitled  to  interpret  the 
whisperings  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  They 
are  real.  God  is  guiding  this  Church. 
Be  true  to  it,  loyal  to  it.  Be  true  to 
your  families,  loyal  to  them.  Protect 
your  children.  Guide  them,  not  arbi- 
trarily, but  through  the  kind  example 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

of  a  father,  a  loving  mother,  and  so 
contribute  to  the  strength  of  the  Church 
by  exercising  your  Priesthood  in  your 
home  and  in  your  lives,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  this  evening 
has  7,719  men  of  the  Priesthood.  The 
Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall  and 
on  the  grounds,  1,892.  We  have  reports 
from  267  of  the  groups — 37,503,  making 
a  total  as  reported  of  47,114  men  of  the 
Priesthood  assembled  this  night.  We 
have  not  heard  from  New  Zealand  yet. 

I  wish  to  thank  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
Men's  Chorus,  and  Brother  Condie,  for 
the  music  they  have  given  us  tonight 
and  the  inspirational  singing.  They 
have  added  dignity  to  our  gathering. 
Thank  you  and  God  bless  you. 

The  session  at  ten  o'clock  tomorrow 
morning  will  be  broadcast  as  a  public 
service  as  usual.  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
broadcast  will  be  from  8:30  to  9:00  a.m. 
Please  be  in  your  seats  at  8:15  in  the 
morning.  We  plead  with  those  who 
will  be  standing  out  in  the  doorways 
trying  to  get  in  the  Tabernacle  to  be 
considerate  one  of  another.  Please 
avoid  pushing  and  crowding.  Courtesy 
is  a  great  virtue,  but  we  lack  it  on  the 
highway  in  Utah.  Let  us  show  to  one 
another,  and  especially  to  our  visitors 
who  are  within  our  city  gates,  that  the 
people  of  the  Church,  at  least,  are 
courteous. 

As  thousands  leave  this  great  Priest- 
hood Meeting  tonight,  let  us  keep  in 
mind  the  admonition  that  is  constantly 
being  given  us  to  drive  carefully.  Let  us 
have  courtesy  in  the  city  and  on  the 
highways. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus 
will  now  sing,  "I  Need  Thee  Every 
Hour."  The  benediction  will  be  offered 
by  President  Ernest  C.  Anderson  of  the 
Union  Stake. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus 
sang  the  hymn,  "I  Need  Thee  Every 
Hour." 

Elder  Ernest  C.  Anderson,  president 
of  the  Union  Stake,  offered  the  bene- 
diction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday 
morning,  October  9,  at  10:00. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  Sunday  morn- 
ing, October  9,  at  10  o'clock. 

(The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ 
broadcast  was  presented  from  8:30  to 
9:00  a.m.,  in  the  Tabernacle.  See  pages 
118  to  119  for  a  full  report  of  this 
broadcast.) 

The  music  for  this  session  was  fur- 
nished by  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Richard  P.  Condie,  Director. 
Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ  con- 
sole. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  who  pre- 
sided and  conducted  the  services,  made 
the  following  introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  fifth  session  of  this  General  Con- 
ference was  held  last  evening  at  7:00 
in  this  building,  with  overflow  meetings 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall, 
and  relayed  by  closed  circuit  to  members 
of  the  Priesthood  assembled  in  271 
Church  buildings  in  virtually  every  sec- 
tion of  the  United  States  and  several  lo- 
cations in  Canada,  and  as  far  south  as 
New  Zealand.  We  did  not  have  a  com- 
plete report,  but  there  were  reported  in 
attendance  between  44,000  and  50,000 
members  of  the  Priesthood  assembled. 
The  speakers  were  President  Moyle, 
Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve,  and  Elder  Marion  G.  Rom- 
ney  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve;  and 
the  Male  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  furnished  the  music. 

These  services  this  morning  in  the 
sixth  session,  will  be  televised  by  many 
circuits  here  on  the  western  coast  and  in 
order  that  they  may  hear  the  proceed- 
ings, we  will  postpone  the  usual  an- 
nouncements until  after  the  first  hour. 


We  are  pleased  to  note  the  presence 
of  President  Clark  this  morning. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the 
direction  of  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie 
with  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ,  will 
open  these  services  by  singing,  "How 
Beautiful  Upon  the  Mountains."  After 
the  singing  the  invocation  will  be  of- 
fered by  President  Lionel  M.  West  of 
the  El  Paso  Stake. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the 
anthem,  "How  Beautiful  Upon  The 
Mountains." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Lionel  M.  West,  president  of  the 
El  Paso  Stake. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Presi- 
dent Lionel  M.  West  of  the  El  Paso 
Stake. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing, 
"The  Heavens  Are  Telling  The  Glory 
of  God,"  with  a  trio  comprising  Albert 
Fallows,  tenor,  Clara  McMaster,  soprano 
and  Lloyd  Neal,  bass,  with  Richard  P. 
Condie,  conducting,  and  Frank  W. 
Asper  at  the  organ. 

Following  the  singing,  we  will  hear 
from  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 


Singing  by  the  Choir,  "The  Heavens 
Are  Telling  The  Glory  of  God." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church  will  be 
our  first  speaker  this  morning. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  fellow  members  The  Lord  has  been  good  to  me  in 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-  giving  me  the  physical  strength  to  be 
day  Saints,  the  only  true  Church  on  the  with  you  this  morning.  I  often  facetious- 
face  of  the  earth  at  this  time:  ly  say  as  long  as  you  do  not  think  with 


88  GENERAL  O 

Sunday,  October  9 

your  heels,  it  does  not  make  much 
difference  what  they  do,  it  is  only  when 
the  Lord  or  somebody  begins  to  interfere 
with  your  head  (laughter) — I  am  uncer- 
tain on  that  point,  personally.  But  I  am 
grateful  to  be  with  you  to  mingle  my 
testimony  with  the  testimony  of  those 
who  have  gone  before,  that  this  is  the 
work  of  God,  that  we  are  doing  his 
service,  that  we  are  working  under  his 
plan,  that  we  are  instructing  the  world 
in  general,  and  ourselves  in  particular, 
in  the  principles  of  his  gospel. 

He  said  to  the  ancients  on  this  conti- 
nent, "I  am  the  Law,"  and  such  are  his 
words.  We  need  to  look  no  further 
than  to  his  words  to  get  therefrom  the 
guides  and  the  principles  which  will  lead 
us  to  eternal  life.  Time  and  time  and 
time  again,  he  said,  sometimes  involving 
the  four  principles,  sometimes  three  of 
them,  "I  am  the  life,  the  light,  the  way, 
and  the  truth."  And  such  is  his  message 
to  us.  Such  are  the  principles  by  which 
our  lives  are  to  be  guided. 

I  renew  to  you  this  morning  the  testi- 
mony I  have  given  to  you  for  over  a 
quarter  of  a  century,  I  believe  every 
conference,  a  testimony  that  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  is  his  Son  and  is  the  Christ, 
a  testimony  that  the  Father  and  the 
Son  appeared  to  the  Prophet,  thus 
settling,  so  far  as  we  are  concerned, 
forever  that  the  Father  and  the  Son 
were  personalities  and  that  Jesus  spoke 
truly  when  he  said,  ".  .  .  he  that  hath 
seen  me  hath  seen  the  Father;  .  .  ." 
(John  14:9.) 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  the  way  has 
been  laid  down  for  us.  We  have  no 
choice  and  no  necessity  for  anything 
beyond  his  words  and  the  revelations 
of  his  mind  and  will  which  he  makes 
known  to  his  prophet,  who  is  called, 
ordained  and  set  apart,  sustained  by 
your  vote  to  be  the  prophet,  seer,  and 
revelator  of  this  Church.  I  renew  again 
my  testimony  that  the  Savior  with  the 
Father  came  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  that 
the  Prophet  and  his  associates  through 
the  assistance  given  to  associates,  set 
up  this  Church,  the  only  true  Church, 
as  I  have  already  said,  that  exists  upon 
the  face  of  the  earth. 

How  I  wish  we  could  carry  this 
thought,  this  belief,  this  testimony  in 
our  hearts  to  the  exclusion  of  all  others. 
This  is  a  time,  nationally,  when  it  hap- 


Third  Day 

pens  that,  so  far  as  my  memory  goes,  for 
the  first  time,  the  strictly  religious  prob- 
lem has  been  thrown  into  the  campaign. 
Be  not  disturbed.  We  are  not  concerned 
ecclesiastically.  We  have  the  truth. 
Ours  is  the  priesthood.  We  are  the  ones 
whom  God  has  set  up  under  a  system  of 
government  which  he  revealed,  where 
we  have  one  man  standing  at  the  head, 
sustained  as  I  have  already  said,  by 
your  vote,  as  the  prophet,  seer,  and 
revelator  of  the  Lord  to  his  people.  No 
one  else  has  any  right  to  declare  the 
word  of  the  Lord  to  this  people. 

I  sometimes  hear  of  persons,  little 
groups,  who  undertake  to  direct  us  along 
lines  that  they  think  would  be  useful, 
politically.  It  is  time  for  us  to  take 
notice  and  act  when  our  prophet,  seer, 
and  revelator  tells  us  what  to  do.  We 
are  not  bound  by  any  small  group. 

What  a  glorious  thing  it  is  to  belong 
to  the  Lord's  Church.  As  I  have  al- 
ready said,  it  was  the  Lord  who  said, 
"I  am  the  life,  the  light,  the  way,  and 
the  truth,"  and  who  said  to  the  people 
on  this  continent,  "I  am  the  law,"  which 
meant,  of  course,  that  by  his  atoning 
sacrifice  he  fulfilled  all  that  the  law  of 
Moses  contemplated  and  provided  for, 
and  he  alone  is  the  one  to  whom  we 
look. 

Never  forget  those  words  of  his  to 
Martha,  when  she  said,  "...  I  know  that 
he  [Lazarus]  shall  rise  again  in  the 
resurrection  at  the  last  day." 

Christ  said  to  her,  "I  am  the  resurrec- 
tion, and  the  life:  he  that  believeth  in 
me,  though  he  were  dead,  .  .  ."  (allud- 
ing, as  I  believe,  to  our  ordinances  for 
the  dead)  ".  .  .  yet  shall  he  live: 

"And  whosoever  liveth  and  believeth 
in  me  shall  never  die.  .  .  ."  (John  11:24- 
26.) 

"And  this  is  life  eternal,"  said  the 
Savior  in  the  great  prayer,  "that  they 
might  know  thee  the  only  true  God,  and 
Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent." 
(Ibid.,  17:3.) 

And  the  great  purposes  of  the  Lord, 
the  great  purposes  of  the  Father,  were 
declared  to  Moses:  ".  .  .  this  is  my  work 
and  my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man." 
(Moses  1:39.) 

How  can  we,  as  members  of  this 
Church,  forget  that  great  principle? 
How  can  we  fail  to  keep  his  command- 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


89 


ments  and  to  go  forward  as  he  has 
directed,  for  that  will  bring  to  us  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  which  God 
promised.  And  I  would  like  to  say — I 
was  about  to  conclude,  to  the  brethren 
of  the  Church,  but  unfortunately  I  fear 
I  must  include  the  sisters:  someday,  as  a 
beginning  to  your  transgression,  you  may 
have  to  determine  whether  a  cigaret  is 
worth  more  than  what  the  Lord  prom- 
ised; someday,  you  will  have  to  make 
the  same  determination  about  a  drink 
of  whiskey;  someday,  you  may  have  to 
determine  whether  you  prefer  what  the 
Lord  has  promised  to  an  illicit  date. 
You  who  have  been  through  the  temple 
of  Almighty  God,  know  your  covenants, 
your  obligations.  Never  forget  them. 
Keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 

Very  early  in  his  ministry,  the  Savior, 
in  that  great  conversation  between  him 
and  Nicodemus,  said  that  the  Father 
sent  the  Savior  to  redeem  the  world, 
not  to  condemn  it.  The  Lord  never 
condemns  the  individual,  except  on  rare 
occasions.  He  condemns  the  sin.  And 
I  can  never  forget  that  the  most  scath- 
ing denunciation  that  I  know  of  in  our 
literature,  scriptural  or  otherwise,  is 
that  denunciation  which  the  Savior 
made,  and  which  is  recorded  in  the 
latter  chapters  of  Matthew,  against 
hypocrisy.  He  leaves  one  almost  with 
the  persuasion  that  nothing  is  so  bad 
as  that. 

And  when  you  think  what  hypocrisy 
may  do — lead  you  to  following  a  life  of 
falsehood,  making  you  pretend  to  be 
what  you  are  not,  deceiving  your  fellow 
men,  sometimes  deceiving  your  wives 
and  your  children!  But  there  is  one 
whom  you  do  not  deceive,  and  that  is 
Christ,  our  Lord.  He  knows  all.  Per- 
sonally, I  have  felt  that  nobody  need 
keep  much  of  a  record  about  me,  except 
what  I  keep  myself  in  my  mind,  which 
is  a  part  of  my  spirit.  I  often  question 
in  my  mind,  whether  it  is  going  to  re- 
quire very  many  witnesses  in  addition 
to  my  own  as  to  my  wrongdoing,  and  I 
have  frequently  thought,  in  making 
funeral  sermons — I  wonder  how  many 
of  us  there  are,  who,  if  it  became  known 
that  Jesus  was  out  here  at  Wendover, 
and  would  be  happy  to  see  all  who 
came  to  see  him,  Jesus  our  Lord,  who 
knows  all  that  we  have  done,  all  that 
we  have  thought,  could  read  our  minds 


as  we  would  read  a  book — I  wonder  how 
many  of  us  would  have  the  courage  to 
go  out  to  Wendover  and  pay  him  a 
visit.  And  yet  if  we  were  not  willing, 
had  not  the  courage,  it  is  because  we 
have  not  lived  and  thought  and  believed 
as  we  should.  To  me,  that  is  one  great 
test  of  how  well  I  am  prepared  to  meet 
my  Maker. 

The  Lord  helps  us.  He  will  give  of 
his  own  Spirit  even  as  much  as  we  are 
prepared  to  accept.  "I  am  the  way,  the 
truth,  the  life,  and  the  light.  I  am  the 
law,"  said  the  Savior. 

Let  us  try  always  to  learn  what  the 
Lord  wants.  If  we  are  living  the  kind 
of  lives  we  should  live,  that  I  hope  we 
do  live,  we  will  find  that  no  question 
ever  arises  in  our  minds  for  determina- 
tion as  to  whether  or  not  we  should  do 
a  good  deed,  take  a  good  course.  The 
question  comes  only  when  we  are  think- 
ing of  doing  something  we  should  not 
do.  And  on  that  point,  may  I  say  just 
a  word.  "Prayer  is  the  soul's  sincere 
desire."  And  in  praying,  no  matter  what 
our  words  may  be,  there  will  be  in  the 
back  of  our  minds  the  real  prayer,  the 
real  desire,  and  that  will  be  controlling. 

The  Lord  is  merciful.  He  overlooks 
much.  He  has  to.  Think  of  his  life, 
what  he  did,  what  he  said.  That  is  your 
guide.  We  sometimes  think  that  the 
Savior  lived  in  a  Palestine  that  was  free 
from  trouble,  that  there  were  no 
murders,  no  robbings,  no  thievings. 
Have  you  ever  wondered  a  little  why 
it  was  that  Peter  on  that  last  night  in 
the  Garden  happened  to  be  armed  with 
a  sword?  His  Master's  and  his  own 
message  had  never  been  to  fight  in  that 
way.  The  Savior  said  he  would  make 
families  fight  among  themselves,  that 
their  real  enemy  sometimes  would  be 
father  or  mother — but  I  have  always 
understood  that  to  mean  the  warfare  be- 
tween right  and  wrong,  the  warfare  be- 
tween his  sayings  and  the  sayings  of 
the  world. 

Do  you  think  of  the  Savior  as  living 
in  a  Roman  civilization  with  all  of  the 
transgressions,  all  of  the  temptations, 
all  of  the  evils  of  that  great  civilization? 
Yet  so  it  was.  And  yet  you  will  find 
nothing  in  the  New  Testament  of  any 
evils  the  Savior  ever  did  of  the  many 
existing  in  the  Roman  Empire.  I  do 
not  remember  any  reference,  allusion,  or 


90 

Sunday,  October  9 

statement  given  in  the  New  Testament 
showing  that  the  Savior  patronized  the 
Roman  circus  or  the  great  amphitheaters 
which  almost  crowded  the  Palestine  in 
which  he  lived. 

Taking  the  New  Testament  alone,  you 
will  gain  little  idea  of  the  kind  of  life 
the  Romans  led  in  Palestine,  the  kind 
of  life  that  the  Christ  condemned,  and 
yet  as  I  have  already  said,  it  has  seemed 
to  me  that  the  one  sin  that  the  Savior 
condemned  as  much  as  any  other  was 
the  sin  of  hypocrisy — the  living  of  the 
double  life,  the  life  we  let  our  friends 
and  sometimes  our  wives  believe,  and 
the  life  we  actually  live. 

I  repeat  what  I  have  already  said,  we 
may  think  nobody  knows  of  our  hy- 
pocrisy. As  a  matter  of  fact,  I  doubt 
if  that  assumption  can  be  true.  Some- 
body does  know.  But  the  Lord  also 
knows,  and  we  make  up  the  record  here 
in  our  minds — that  part  of  us  which  I 
think  is  part  of  our  eternal  souls.  We 
know,  and  we  will  never  forget. 

May  the  Lord  give  us  strength  and 
power  to  overcome  evil.  May  he  give 
to  us  men  the  power  to  magnify  our 
priesthood.  May  he  give  to  us  the 
knowledge  that  we  hold  in  our  hands 
through  our  priesthood  and  the  exer- 
cise of  faith,  the  most  powerful  force  of 
which  we  have  any  knowledge.  It 
transcends  the  forces  of  nature,  as  the 
Lord  showed  on  more  than  one  occasion. 
It  is  the  force  by  which  the  worlds  were 
made.  It  is  at  our  command,  if  we  so 
live  that  we  are  entitled  to  it.  But  it  is 
my  faith  and  my  belief  that  the  Lord 
never  gives  anyone  faith,  it  being  his 
gift,  that  will  defeat  his  purposes. 

And  when  we  pray,  as  I  have  said 
to  you  on  many  occasions,  I  am  sure, 
pray  as  he  did  in  Gethsemane.  And 
have  you  ever  been  struck  with  the 
thought  that  here  was  the  Son  praying 
to  the  Father  to  let  the  cup  of  crucifixion 
pass  by,  ".  .  .  nevertheless  not  my  will, 
but  thine,  be  done."  (Luke  22:42.)  A 
few  days  before  in  the  temple,  he  had 
said,  "Father,  save  me  from  this  hour: 
but  for  this  cause  came  I  unto  this 
hour."  (John  12:27.) 

I  have  been  struck  with  the  fact  that 
Deity  himself,  half  mortal  for  the  time, 
found  himself  asking  that  his  destiny 
might  be  changed,  but  he  finished  his 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

petition,  "nevertheless  not  my  will,  but 
thine,  be  done." 

In  that  spirit  we  should  always  ap- 
proach our  Heavenly  Father  in  prayer. 
And  when  we  go  to  our  Heavenly  Father 
for  advice,  let  us  not  go  to  him  with 
the  request  that  he  confirm  us  in  our 
desires,  but  ask  humbly  and  in  full  faith 
that  he  will  give  to  us  of  our  desires,  no 
matter  what  they  are  or  concerning 
whom  they  may  be,  that  which  accords 
with  his  will. 

I  am  most  grateful  to  be  with  you  this 
morning,  to  mingle  my  voice  with  the 
voices  of  the  other  brethren  who  have 
testified  to  you  during  this  conference. 
I  have  listened  to  you  during  the  entire 
conference.  I  have  enjoyed  what  has 
been  said.  I  have  regretted  my  absence. 
I  am  grateful  that  the  Lord  has  per- 
mitted me  to  come  this  morning,  and  I 
thank  President  McKay  for  giving  me 
the  opportunity  to  say  the  few  unpre- 
meditated words  I  have  said. 

I  pray  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  to  be 
upon  you  and  upon  all  of  us.  I  pray 
the  blessings  of  the  Lord  to  be  upon 
him,  the  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator  of 
the  Church  and  the  President  thereof. 
I  pray  that  we  will  give  him  the  full 
measure  of  support  that  we  have  cove- 
nanted to  give  him  when  we  sustained 
him  by  our  uplifted  hands.  That  is  a 
marvelous  covenant  we  make,  and  as 
we  make  it  here,  we  bind  the  Church, 
for  this  is  a  constituent  assembly  speak- 
ing for  the  Church.  God  grant  his 
blessings  may  be  always  with  us,  to  help 
us,  to  build  us  up,  to  keep  us  in  the 
straight  and  narrow  path,  even  until 
the  end  of  life,  and  may  he  enable  us 
to  bestow  such  an  impress  upon  our 
families  as  will  enable  them  in  turn  to 
follow  his  paths,  never  forgetting  and 
applying  strictly  the  great  principle  he 
announced,  "I  am  the  way,  the  truth, 
the  life,  and  the  light,"  and  as  to  this 
continent,  "I  am  the  law,"  to  the  end 
that  we  ourselves  and  our  families  after 
us,  may  be  saved  and  exalted  and  re- 
united in  the  hereafter,  I  humbly  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


As  President  Clark  turned  to 
leave  the  pulpit,  he  said, 

"Let  me  tell  a  story.    I  remem- 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


91 


ber  when  Sullivan  and  Kilrain 
were  fighting  a  championship 
down  in  New  Orleans,  I  believe  it 
was,  when  I  was  a  kid,  in  the  76th 
round,  or  thereabouts,  word  came 
back,  as  I  remember,  'Kilrain  is 
slightly  disfigured,  but  still  in  the 
ring. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  heard  President  J.  Reu- 
ben Clark,  Jr.  of  the  First  Presidency. 
We  all  rejoice  in  his  vigor  of  youth.  His 
legs  may  be  a  little  wobbly,  but  his 
heart  and  head  are  still  sound  and  clear. 
We  welcome  him.  Our  next  speaker  will 
be  Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  am  sure  we  are  all  grateful  to  the  Lord 
for  the  presence  here  of  President  Clark, 
for  the  privilege  of  listening  to  his  in- 
spiring and  dynamic  testimony,  and  for 
his  admonition  and  advice.  It  is  very 
humbling  indeed  to  be  asked  to  follow 
him.  I  shall  simply  add  my  testimony 
to  his,  that  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ;  the  qualifying  phrase  "of  Latter- 
day  Saints"  distinguishes  its  members 
from  members  of  the  same  Church  in 
former  times,  who  are  referred  to  in  the 
New  Testament  as  Saints. 

We  worship  God  the  Father  through 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  he,  the  Savior, 
who  is  the  Head  of  the  Church,  its  great 
High  Priest,  its  Founder,  and  its  Inspira- 
tion. All  others,  whether  they  be 
prophets,  apostles,  elders,  members — all 
others  are  willingly  subservient  to  him. 
We  agree  with  the  Apostle  Paul  that 
".  .  .  there  is  none  other  name  under 
heaven  given  among  men,  whereby  we 
must  be  saved."  (Acts  4:12.) 

We  are  informed  that  there  are  per- 
haps more  nonmembers  than  members 
present  and  listening  in.  To  all  of  you 
out  there  we  bid  a  hearty  welcome  and 
wish  to  include  you  in  the  usual  Latter- 
day  Saint  greeting:  "Brothers  and  sis- 
ters." 

Perhaps  many  of  you  would  refer  to 
the  Church  as  the  "Mormon"  Church; 
while  we  do  not  object  to  that  designa- 
tion, it  may  be  a  bit  misleading.  Mor- 
mon was  an  ancient  American  prophet, 
whose  name  was  given  to  a  sacred  record 
which  he  compiled;  but  though  this  may 
be  called  the  Mormon  Church,  it  is  not 
the  Church  of  Mormon,  nor  is  it  the 
Church  of  Joseph  Smith  nor  of  Brigham 
Young,  nor  of  any  other  man.  It  is  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 


Reference  has  been  made  in  this  con- 
ference to  the  chaotic  condition  of  the 
world  on  account  of  communism.  While 
I  shall  not  dwell  on  this  at  length,  we 
all  know  that  our  world  is  divided  and 
imperiled;  that  though  the  Western  na- 
tions believe  in  God,  or  claim  to,  and 
in  the  freedom  of  men,  and  the  worth  of 
the  individual,  there  are  hundreds  of 
millions  of  our  fellow  men  who  are 
being  taught  that  God  is  a  myth  and 
religion  but  an  opiate;  who  are  being 
indoctrinated,  while  their  minds  and 
bodies  are  enslaved,  to  believe  in  the 
monstrous  supremacy  of  the  totalitarian 
state. 

While  we  are  preaching  Christ  and 
him  crucified,  there  are  millions  on  the 
earth  who  dare  not  mention  his  name 
except  in  derision  and  anathema.  The 
battlefronts  in  this  cold  war  are  divided 
into  sectors:  social,  economic,  scientific, 
geographic,  ideological;  but  the  one  front 
on  which  the  enemy  is  concentrating, 
the  one  front  which  makes  him  gnash 
his  teeth  at  its  very  name,  is  the  front 
which  may  be  called  "God  and  religion." 
The  war — cold  or  hot — will  be  waged  by 
the  followers  of  Christ  versus  anti- 
Christ. 

That  being  true,  it  is  incumbent  upon 
all  Christians  everywhere,  and  again  I 
am  speaking  to  you,  our  friends  out  there, 
it  behooves  us  to  re-examine  our  creeds, 
our  fundamental  concepts,  our  basic 
faith,  and  ask  ourselves  again  the  mean- 
ing of  the  word  "God"  in  our  theology, 
and  the  place  of  God  in  our  lives.  Our 
allegiance  must  be  intelligent  and  well- 
defined. 

Every  man  should  answer  for  himself 
the  question,  "What  think  ye  of  Christ?" 
(Matt.  22:42.)    I  should  like  to  bear 


92  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  9 

my  testimony  of  him  and  indicate  briefly 
his  status  in  the  minds  and  hearts  of 
all  Latter-day  Saints  as  background  and 
introductory,  or,  by  way  of  contrast — 
for  none  other,  however  great,  can  be 
compared  to  him — may  I  call  attention 
for  a  moment  to  what  the  tourist  may 
see  when  he  goes  to  Europe  or  the 
Middle  East,  as  he  visits  the  birthplaces 
and  the  resting  places  of  the  notable 
ones  of  the  earth — the  poets,  authors, 
soldiers,  and  statesmen. 

The  tourist  will  probably  be  impressed 
by  the  ruins  of  ancient  cities  and  the 
crumbling  monuments  and  tombstones 
of  many  who  are  called  great.  Some  of 
these  ancients  built  and  garnished  their 
own  sepulchres  and  gilded  their  tombs 
in  order  to  display  their  wealth  and  to 
indicate  their  status.  The  visitor  will 
be  impressed  by  the  Colosseum  in  Rome, 
the  Acropolis  in  Athens,  and  admire 
the  work  of  former  masters  in  art,  litera- 
ture, philosophy,  and  government.  He 
will  be  reminded  of  the  pomp  of  the 
Pharaohs  in  Egypt  as  he  visits  the  pyra- 
mids, and  may  ask:  "Why  such  colossal 
expenditure  of  money  and  time  and  lives 
to  build  a  tomb?"  He  will  probably 
leave  without  an  answer  to  his  question 
and  remember  only  the  inscrutable  smile 
of  the  Sphinx. 

But  if  his  tour  leads  him  to  the  Holy 
Land,  he  will  be  inspired  by  the  thought 
that  though  Rome  had  her  Caesars,  her 
master  artists,  and  her  geniuses;  though 
Athens  had  her  conquerors,  her  states- 
men, and  her  philosophers;  though 
Egypt  had  her  pompous  dictators  and 
her  unrelenting  Pharaohs,  it  remained 
for  little  Bethlehem  and  later  for 
Nazareth  and  Galilee  to  give  to  this 
world  its  most  transcendent  personage. 

In  Jerusalem  one  has  the  privilege 
of  standing  before  an  open  tomb — a 
tomb  that  was  once  closed  by  a  great 
stone  on  which  was  placed  the  seal  of 
Rome  and  over  which  a  guard  was 
mounted.  But  that  stone  was  rolled 
away,  that  seal  was  broken,  that  guard 
was  overcome,  that  tomb  was  opened 
by  an  angel  of  the  Lord.  That  borrowed 
sepulchre  was  neither  gilded  nor  deco- 
rated, and  in  it  was  found  no  earthly 
treasure,  for  its  temporary  tenant  was 
destitute  of  worldly  goods.  In  life  he 
had  no  place  to  lay  his  head,  and  in 
death  there  was  no  place  to  lay  his 


Third  Day 

body — hence,  the  pity  of  a  friend. 

But  there  came  forth  from  that  lowly 
tomb  riches  beyond  all  price.  The  life- 
less body,  which  was  placed  there  by 
loving  hands  three  days  previously,  came 
forth  from  that  tomb  triumphant  over 
death,  a  resurrected,  glorified  Personage, 
the  first  fruits  of  them  that  slept.  And 
the  rewards  of  that  victory  are  to  be 
shared  among  all  men  everywhere,  for 
as  Paul  said,  "For  since  by  man  came 
death,  by  man  came  also  the  resurrec- 
tion of  the  dead. 

"For  as  in  Adam  all  die,  even  so  in 
Christ  shall  all  be  made  alive."  (1  Cor. 
15:21-22.) 

And  what  was  it  that  came  from  that 
open  tomb?  Was  it  merely  a  spirit? 
He  himself  answered  that  question  when 
he  stood  among  his  followers  who  were 
amazed  and  frightened  at  his  appear- 
ance. He  said  to  them,  ".  .  .  Why  are 
ye  troubled?  and  why  do  thoughts  arise 
in  your  hearts? 

"Behold  my  hands  and  my  feet,  that 
it  is  I  myself:  handle  me,  and  see;  for 
a  spirit  hath  not  flesh  and  bones,  as  ye 
see  me  have."  (Luke  24:38-39.) 

Brothers  and  sisters,  this  Babe  of 
Bethlehem,  this  Carpenter  of  Nazareth, 
this  Man  of  Galilee,  never  wrote  a 
book,  and  yet  the  story  of  what  he  said 
and  did  during  the  three  short  years  of 
his  ministry,  which  was  faithfully, 
though  only  partially,  recorded  by  his 
humble  disciples,  has  been  read  and  re- 
read by  more  people  in  more  languages 
than  any  other  book. 

He  left  no  masterpiece  on  canvas, 
and  yet  his  life  and  death  have  been 
the  inspiration  for  more  artists  than  any 
other  subject.  He  left  no  monument  in 
stone  or  bronze  or  marble,  and  yet  the 
image  of  his  divine  manhood  has  been 
an  inspiration  to  millions  down  through 
the  centuries. 

But  we  testify  of  and  worship  not 
only  one  who  lived  and  died  two  thou- 
sand years  ago — and  we  hope  you,  our 
friends,  will  note  what  now  we  say, 
for  we  declare  it  by  authority  and  by 
commandment — we  testify  of  one  who 
was  also  resurrected  from  the  dead  and 
is  now  living — one  who  is  comprehen- 
sible, one  who  has  a  material,  though 
an  immortal  body  as  he  himself  de- 
clared when  he  said  to  his  astonished 
followers:    "Handle  me  and  see."  It 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


93 


was  that  same  body  which  ascended 
into  heaven  out  near  Bethany  when  a 
cloud  enveloped  him,  and  to  the  amaze- 
ment and  astonishment  of  his  followers, 
he  ascended  into  heaven.  Two  men  in 
white  standing  by  said,  "Ye  men  of 
Galilee,  why  stand  ye  gazing  into 
heaven?  this  same  Jesus,  which  is  taken 
up  from  you  into  heaven,  shall  so  come 
in  like  manner  as  ye  have  seen  him  go 
into  heaven."  (Acts  1:11.) 

Peter  declared  that  the  heaven  must 
receive  him  until  the  time  of  the  ".  .  . 
restitution  of  all  things,  which  God  hath 
spoken  by  the  mouth  of  all  his  holy 
prophets  since  the  world  began."  (Ibid., 
3:21.) 

Yes,  we  testify  of  the  First  Begotten  of 
the  Father  in  the  spirit,  the  Only  Begot- 
ten Son  of  God  in  the  flesh,  a  member 
of  the  Holy  Trinity,  the  Creator  of  the 
world.  To  prove  he  was  the  Creator 
we  quote  the  words  of  John,  the  Apostle: 
"In  the  beginning  was  the  Word,  and 
the  Word  was  with  God,  and  the  Word 
was  God.  The  same  was  in  the  be- 
ginning with  God.  All  things  were 
made  by  him;  and  without  him  was 
not  any  thing  made  that  was  made." 
(John  1:1-3.)  That  the  Word  referred 
to  was  none  other  than  the  Christ 
becomes  evident  when  one  reads  the 
fourteenth  verse:  "And  the  Word  was 
made  flesh,  and  dwelt  among  us,  (and 
we  beheld  his  glory,  the  glory  as  of 
the  only  begotten  of  the  Father,)  full 
of  grace  and  truth."  (Ibid.,  1:14.) 

The  Apostle  Paul  also  bears  testimony 
of  him  as  the  Creator:  "For  by  him 
were  all  things  created,  that  are  in 
heaven,  and  that  are  in  earth,  visible 
and  invisible,  whether  they  be  thrones, 
or  dominions,  or  principalities,  or 
powers:  all  things  were  created  by  him, 
and  for  him: 

"And  he  is  before  all  things,  and  by 
him  all  things  consist."  (Colossians 
1:16-17.) 

We  read  of  him  in  Hebrews:  "God, . . . 

"Hath  in  these  last  days  spoken  unto 
us  by  his  Son,  whom  he  hath  appointed 
heir  of  all  things,  by  whom  also  he  made 
the  worlds; 

"Who  being  the  brightness  of  his 
glory,  and  the  express  image  of  his  per- 
son, and  upholding  all  things  by  the 
word  of  his  power,  when  he  had  by 
himself  purged  our  sins,  sat  down  on 


the  right  hand  of  the  Majesty  on  high;" 
(Hebrews  1:1-3.) 

We  speak  of  him  of  whom  Isaiah 
prophesied  when  he  said:  ".  .  .  Behold, 
a  virgin  shall  conceive,  and  bear  a  son, 
and  shall  call  his  name  Immanuel." 
(Isaiah  7:14.)  That  he  had  reference 
to  the  Babe  of  Bethlehem  is  evidenced 
by  what  the  angel  said  to  the  confused 
and  bewildered  Joseph,  whose  beloved 
Mary  was  about  to  bear  a  child.  The 
angel  said  to  Joseph:  "Joseph,  thou  son 
of  David,  fear  not  to  take  unto  thee 
Mary  thy  wife:  for  that  which  is  con- 
ceived in  her  is  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

"And  she  shall  bring  forth  a  son, 
and  thou  shalt  call  his  name  jESUS: 
for  he  shall  save  his  people  from  their 
sins. 

"Now  all  this  was  done,  that  it 
might  be  fulfilled  which  was  spoken  of 
the  Lord  by  the  prophet,  saying, 

"Behold,  a  virgin  shall  be  with  child, 
and  shall  bring  forth  a  son,  and  they 
shall  call  his  name  Emmanuel,  which 
being  interpreted  is,  God  with  us." 
(Matthew  1:20-23.) 

He  himself  proclaimed  his  Godhood, 
and  his  heirship  when  he  was  chal- 
lenged by  his  persecutors  after  he  had 
said,  "I  and  my  Father  are  one." 

They  wanted  to  stone  him,  and  he 
said,  ".  .  .  for  which  of  my  works  do 
you  stone  me?"  And  they  said,  "For  a 
good  work  we  stone  thee  not;  but  for 
blasphemy;  and  because  that  thou,  being 
a  man,  makest  thyself  God."  And  he 
answered  them,  "Say  ye  of  him,  whom 
the  Father  hath  sanctified,  and  sent  into 
the  world,  Thou  blasphemest;  because 
I  said,  I  am  the  Son  of  God? 

"If  I  do  not  the  works  of  my  Father, 
believe  me  not."  (John  10:30-33,  36- 
37.) 

As  to  the  actuality  of  the  resurrection 
of  Christ,  his  divinity,  his  universal 
Godhood,  let  us  hear  his  own  declaration 
and  read  the  testimony  of  a  multitude 
of  people  on  the  American  continent,  to 
whom  he  appeared  just  after  his  cruci- 
fixion. 

This  scripture  may  be  new  to  many  of 
you,  but  in  America,  as  in  Jerusalem, 
there  were  holy  men  of  God  who  spake 
as  they  were  moved  by  the  Holy  Ghost. 
You  will  remember  reading  in  Luke's 
account  of  the  crucifixion:  "And  it  was 
about  the  sixth  hour,  and  there  was  a 


94  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  9 

darkness  over  all  the  earth  until  the 
ninth  hour. 

"And  the  sun  was  darkened,  and  the 
veil  of  the  temple  was  rent  in  the  midst." 
(Luke  23:44-45.)  And  in  Matthew: 
"And  behold,  the  veil  of  the  temple 
was  rent  in  twain  from  the  top  to  the 
bottom;  and  the  earth  did  quake,  and 
the  rocks  rent; 

"And  the  graves  were  opened;  and 
many  bodies  of  the  saints  which  slept 
arose."  (Matthew  27:51-52.) 

Now  this  thick  darkness,  which  cov- 
ered the  earth,  and  the  convulsions  of 
the  earth  at  the  time  of  the  crucifixion, 
extended  to  America.  Here  the  darkness 
lasted  three  days,  and  it  was  so  thick 
upon  all  the  face  of  the  land  that  the 
people  could  feel  the  vapor  of  darkness, 
and  they  could  make  no  light. 

At  the  end  of  the  period  of  darkness 
and  upheaval,  they  who  survived  were 
assembled  near  the  temple.  There  they 
heard  a  voice  as  if  it  came  out  of  heaven. 
They  did  not  understand  it  at  first,  but 
afterwards  understood  when  the  voice 
said: 

"Behold  my  Beloved  Son,  in  whom  I 
am  well  pleased,  in  whom  I  have  glori- 
fied my  name — hear  ye  him. 

"And  it  came  to  pass,  as  they  under- 
stood they  cast  their  eyes  up  again  to- 
ward heaven;  and  behold,  they  saw  a 
Man  descending  out  of  heaven;  and  he 
was  clothed  in  a  white  robe;  and  he 
came  down  and  stood  in  the  midst  of 
them;  and  the  eyes  of  the  whole  multi- 
tude were  turned  upon  him,  and  they 
durst  not  open  their  mouths,  even  one 
to  another,  and  wist  not  what  it  meant, 
for  they  thought  it  was  an  angel  that 
had  appeared  unto  them. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  he  stretched 
forth  his  hand  and  spake  unto  the  peo- 
ple, saying: 

"Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  whom  the 
prophets  testified  shall  come  into  the 
world. 

"And  behold,  I  am  the  light  and  the 
life  of  the  world;  and  I  have  drunk  out 
of  that  bitter  cup  which  the  Father  hath 
given  me,  and  have  glorified  the  Father 
in  taking  upon  me  the  sins  of  the  world, 
in  the  which  I  have  suffered  the  will  of 
the  Father  in  all  things  from  the  be- 
ginning. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  Jesus 
had  spoken  these  words  the  whole  multi- 


Third  Day 

tude  fell  to  the  earth;  for  they  remem- 
bered that  it  had  been  prophesied  among 
them  that  Christ  should  show  himself 
unto  them  after  his  ascension  into 
heaven. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  Lord 
spake  unto  them  saying: 

"Arise  and  come  forth  unto  me,  that 
ye  may  thrust  your  hands  into  my  side, 
and  also  that  ye  may  feel  the  prints  of 
the  nails  in  my  hands  and  in  my  feet, 
that  ye  may  know  that  I  am  the  God 
of  Israel,  and  the  God  of  the  whole 
earth,  and  have  been  slain  for  the  sins 
of  the  world. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  multi- 
tude went  forth,  and  thrust  their  hands 
into  his  side,  and  did  feel  the  prints  of 
the  nails  in  his  hands  and  in  his  feet; 
and  this  they  did  do,  going  forth  one  by 
one  until  they  had  all  gone  forth,  and 
did  see  with  their  eyes  and  did  feel  with 
their  hands,  and  did  know  of  a  surety 
and  did  bear  record,  that  it  was  he,  of 
whom  it  was  written  by  the  prophets, 
that  should  come. 

"And  when  they  had  all  gone  forth 
and  had  witnessed  for  themselves,  they 
did  cry  out  with  one  accord,  saying: 

"Hosanna!  Blessed  be  the  name  of  the 
Most  High  God!  And  they  did  fall 
down  at  the  feet  of  Jesus,  and  did 
worship  him."  (3  Nephi  11:7-17.) 

And  thus  we  have  the  testimony  of 
eyewitnesses  from  two  continents  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ.  We  add  our  testi- 
mony not  only  that  he  did  live,  but 
that  he  still  lives.  This  fact  is  the 
greatest  hope  of  this  divided  and  im- 
periled world,  for  if  the  Christ  still 
lives  then  the  anti-Christ  will  be  de- 
feated. There  can  be  no  peace  in  a 
godless  world. 

But  our  testimony  would  not  be  com- 
plete if  we  did  not  reaffirm  our  faith 
in  the  second  coming  of  Christ,  in  the 
millennium  which  is  to  come  when  he 
will  reign  as  King  of  kings,  and  Lord 
of  lords.  That  this  climactic  event  is 
not  far  distant  is  indicated  by  the  signs 
of  the  times,  by  wars  and  rumors  of 
wars,  by  the  satanic  schemes  of  evil 
men  who  would  enslave  not  only  the 
bodies  but  also  the  minds  of  all  who 
dare  refuse  to  subscribe  to  the  ideologies 
invented  by  the  anti-Christ. 

May  the  time  soon  come  when  he 
again  will  say  to  this  troubled  world, 


ELDER  ALBERT  THEODORE  TUTTLE 


95 


"Peace  I  leave  with  you.  My  peace  I 
give  unto  you;  not  as  the  world  giveth, 
give  I  unto  you.  Let  not  your  heart  be 
troubled,  neither  let  it  be  afraid."  (John 
14:27.) 

God  grant  that  we  may  be  prepared 
for  that  day  and  in  the  interim  be 
unafraid,  knowing  that  he  still  lives 
and  that  as  he  said  of  himself:  "All 
power  is  given  unto  me  in  heaven  and 
in  earth."  (Matt.  28:18.)  Of  him  I 
humbly  testify  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us.  We 
hope  that  all  the  television  sets  and 
radios  that  were  tuned  in  along  the  west 


coast,  in  the  northwest,  and  throughout 
the  nation,  heard  President  Clark  and 
Elder  Brown  address  us. 

The  Choir  and  Congregation  will  now 
sing,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a 
Prophet,"  with  Richard  P.  Condie  con- 
ducting. After  the  singing,  we  will  hear 
from  Elder  A.  Theodore  Tuttle. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For 
A  Prophet." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  A.  Theodore  Tuttle  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  now  address  us. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Delbert  L. 
Stapley  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  ALBERT  THEODORE  TUTTLE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  I  have 
had  more  compliments  on  the  talk  I 
did  not  give  yesterday,  than  I  have  ever 
had  on  one  I  actually  gave.  I  am  sure 
those  who  thus  commented  were  think- 
ing of  the  advice  that  Brother  Henry 
Taylor  gave  yesterday  about  the  re- 
sponsibility of  improving  upon  silence. 

Last  night  in  priesthood  meeting,  I 
missed  the  voice  that  has  always  made 
an  eloquent  plea  for  unity,  and  I  am 
grateful  this  morning  that  I  heard  that 
voice  bear  such  a  powerful  testimony  to 
the  divinity  of  this  work.  [President  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  could  not  attend 
priesthood  meeting.] 

Where  else  could  you  go  in  the  world 
and  find  such  certainty  and  knowledge 
that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus  Christ  is 
his  Son.  Contrast  what  we  have  heard 
the  past  few  days  with  this  statement: 

"Several  years  ago  in  a  seminary 
recognized  as  perhaps  the  greatest  in 
this  country,  a  doctor  of  divinity,  who 
had  a  string  of  honorary  doctoral  de- 
grees and  who  is  on  the  board  of 
directors  of  one  of  the  largest  Protestant 
churches  in  America,  in  lecturing  to  a 
large  group  of  students,  most  of  whom 
already  had  bachelor  of  divinity  degrees, 
said,  sympathetically: 

"  'I  know  that  it  is  difficult  for  you 


men  to  teach  creeds  which  you,  your- 
selves, do  not  believe,  but  you  have  the 
social  obligation  to  do  it.'  " 

Another  man  in  the  same  institution, 
having  about  the  same  academic  cre- 
dentials, declared:  "Who  knows  but 
what  in  the  year  2004  or  some  other 
year,  there  will  live  a  man  who  will  live 
more  perfectly  than  did  Jesus.  Then 
we  will  worship  him  as  the  Son  of  God, 
rather  than  Jesus.  The  reason  we  wor- 
ship Jesus  as  the  Son  of  God  is  because 
he  lived  the  most  perfect  life  of  any 
man  of  whom  we  have  knowledge." 

Does  the  world  need  the  message  of 
Mormonism?  I  think  it  needs  nothing 
more  than  to  know  the  true  concept  of 
the  Godhead,  to  have  borne  upon  their 
souls  the  testimony  that  has  been  borne 
here  these  days  of  conference — the  testi- 
mony that  comes  through  the  gift  and 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  bears 
witness  to  our  souls  and  our  hearts  that 
God  does  live.  He  is  real.  He  is  a 
glorified,  resurrected  Being,  and  he  is 
our  Father,  and  he  loves  us.  He  ". . .  so 
loved  the  world,  that  he  gave  his  only 
begotten  Son,  that  whosoever  believeth 
in  him  should  not  perish,  but  have  ever- 
lasting life."  (John  3:16.) 

Jesus  is  the  Savior.  We  declare 
boldly,  yet  humbly,  to  all  of  the  world 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  9 

that  he  is  the  Redeemer;  that  he  atoned 
for  the  sins  of  man,  and  he  is  veritably 
the  Son  of  God. 

I  am  grateful  that  we  have  had  re- 
stored to  us  today,  another  witness  that 
this  is  so.  This  witness  comes  from  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  Nephi  saw  in  vision 
that  Mary  was  to  be  the  mother  of  the 
Son  of  God  after  the  manner  of  the 
flesh.  (1  Nephi  11:18.)  The  Book  of 
Mormon  further  witnesses  that  Jesus 
Christ  did  come  to  this  people  on  this 
continent.  They  bore  testimony  that 
he  lives. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  who  said  he  saw  two  Personages 
stand  above  him  in  the  air,  and  that  the 
one  called  him  by  name  and  said,  "This 
is  My  Beloved  Son.  Hear  Him!"  (Joseph 
Smith  2:17.)  And  I  would  add  to  the 
testimonies  that  have  been  borne  in  con- 
ference, my  own  testimony.  It  has  come 
to  me  through  the  gift  and  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  I  know  that  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  God. 
I  am  grateful  for  this  witness  of  the 
Spirit  to  my  soul. 


Third  Day 

I  would  plead  with  the  parents  of  this 
Church  to  prepare  their  sons  to  bear 
this  testimony  to  the  world,  the  only 
power  that  will  bring  peace,  because 
peace  is  rooted  in  righteousness.  When 
the  hearts  of  men  on  this  earth  can  be 
prepared  to  receive  the  witness  of  the 
Spirit,  all  men  will  be  brothers,  and 
then  peace  can  come  to  our  hearts. 

I  pray  that  we  shall  hasten  this  day 
through  our  united  efforts  by  whole- 
heartedly supporting  these  brethren  who 
direct  the  affairs  of  the  Lord  on  earth, 
and  can  contribute  both  service  and  sub- 
stance to  help  the  work  of  the  Lord 
forward.  I  humbly  pray  his  blessings 
upon  us,  and  bear  this  testimony  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
A.  Theodore  Tuttle,  a  member  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy.  We  shall  now 
hear  Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley,  a  member 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brothers  and  sisters,  it  is  good  to  be 
here.  I  think  I  should  like  to  use  as 
the  springboard  for  my  message,  the 
closing  remarks  of  President  Clark  and  a 
suggestion  just  made  by  Brother  Tuttle. 
My  message  for  this  conference  is  di- 
rected to  parents  and  emphasizes  the 
theme  introduced  to  the  membership  of 
the  Church  this  year  in  connection  with 
the  stake  conferences,  "Keep  Faith  with 
Your  Family." 

My  remarks  apply  also  to  the  youth 
of  the  Church,  who  will  be  the  parents 
of  tomorrow,  for  they  also  should  be 
interested  in  laying  the  foundation 
values  now  for  the  building  of  ideal 
Latter-day  Saint  homes  of  their  own 
after  marriage  and  parenthood — homes 
where  love,  harmony,  and  mutual  af- 
fection predominate  and  the  gospel  is 
both  taught  and  lived. 

May  I  begin  by  reminding  you  that 
God  extends  to  earthly  parents  a  choice 
blessing  when  he  sends  a  spirit  son  or 
daughter  of  his  to  dwell  in  a  mortal 


body  provided  by  them.  God  grants 
to  parents,  if  they  have  complied  with 
his  gospel  laws  and  ordinances,  the 
children  born  to  them  in  the  new  and 
everlasting  covenant  of  marriage,  or 
sealed  to  them  by  the  authority  of  the 
Holy  Priesthood  of  God  as  their  very 
own  throughout  the  eternities  of  time. 

This  knowledge  adds  joy,  happiness, 
and  glory  to  joint-heirship  with  Christ 
in  all  that  the  Father  possesses,  even  the 
gift  of  his  own  spirit  children.  Every 
child  is  born  in  complete  innocence 
here  on  earth.  The  Lord  entrusts  these 
choice  spirit  children  of  his  to  earthly 
parents,  with  a  hope  that  through  proper 
teaching  and  training  they  will  ever  keep 
them  moral,  true,  and  faithful.  God 
has  revealed  this  truth  in  our  day: 
"Every  spirit  of  man  was  innocent  in 
the  beginning;  and  God  having  re- 
deemed man  from  the  fall,  men  became 
again,  in  their  infant  state,  innocent 
before  God."  (D&C  93:38.) 

Our  Savior,  giving  his  life  on  the 


ELDER  DELBE 

cross,  redeemed  us  from  the  effects  of 
the  fall;  therefore,  every  soul  at  birth 
stands  innocent  before  God. 

In  the  modern  revelations  the  Lord 
has  given  important  instruction  to  par- 
ents, detailing  their  responsibility  in  the 
upbringing  of  their  children.  After 
children  come  to  bless  parents  with  the 
joy  and  happiness  of  possession,  the  Lord 
has  admonished  that  "Every  member  of 
the  church  of  Christ  having  children  is 
to  bring  them  unto  the  elders  before  the 
church,  who  are  to  lay  their  hands  upon 
them  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
bless  them  in  his  name."  (Ibid.,  20:70.) 
Here,  then,  is  one  of  the  first  duties  of 
parents:  to  have  their  children  blessed  by 
the  elders  of  the  Church.  What  a  privi- 
lege and  proper  beginning  for  a  child  to 
be  blessed  by  the  elders  of  the  Church  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ! 

Now,  God  has  revealed  that  "little 
children  are  redeemed  from  the  founda- 
tion of  the  world  through  mine  Only 
Begotten; 

"Wherefore,  they  cannot  sin,  for 
power  is  not  given  unto  Satan  to  tempt 
little  children,  until  they  begin  to  be- 
come accountable  before  me."  (Ibid., 
29:46-47.) 

Parents,  therefore,  have  these  early, 
golden  years  of  a  child's  life  in  which 
to  teach,  train,  and  mold  its  character, 
when  Satan  is  not  given  power  to  tempt 
or  to  mislead  it.  But  there  does  come 
a  time  in  the  lives  of  children  for  indi- 
vidual responsibility  and  accountability, 
a  time  when  they  are  to  act  for  them- 
selves, and  receive  the  gospel  and  its 
ordinances  and  to  be  baptized  for  a 
remission  of  their  sins. 

The  Lord  has  declared  that,  "No  one 
can  be  received  into  the  church  of 
Christ  unless  he  has  arrived  unto  the 
years  of  accountability  before  God,  and 
is  capable  of  repentance."  (Ibid.,  20:71.) 
Parents,  looking  forward  to  the  time  of 
individual  responsibility  of  children  for 
their  own  acts,  should  carefully  heed 
this  admonition  from  the  Lord: 

"And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents  have 
children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her  stakes 
which  are  organized,  that  teach  them 
not  to  understand  the  doctrine  of  re- 
pentance, faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the 
living  God,  and  of  baptism  and  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of 
the  hands,  when  eight  years  old,  the 


T  L.  STAPLEY  97 

sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents." 
(Ibid.,  68:25.) 

Parents,  therefore,  have  the  responsi- 
bility of  teaching  to  the  understanding 
of  their  children  the  gospel  truths,  prin- 
ciples, and  ordinances,  and  to  prepare 
them  for  baptism  and  the  laying  on  of 
hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
when  they  attain  the  age  of  eight  years, 
the  age  of  accountability  before  God; 
otherwise,  the  sin  is  upon  the  heads  of 
the  parents. 

To  leave  no  doubt  in  the  minds  of 
parents  about  their  responsibility  and 
accountability  to  this  instruction,  the 
Lord  continued  by  saying: 

"For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the  in- 
habitants of  Zion."  The  teaching  of 
gospel  principles  and  the  preparation  of 
children  to  receive  the  ordinances  of 
the  gospel  is  not  something  parents  can 
do  only  if  they  want  to,  because  the 
Lord  emphatically  declared  that  it  "shall 
be  a  law  unto  the  inhabitants  of 
Zion.  .  .  .  And  their  children  shall  be 
baptized  for  the  remission  of  their  sins 
when  eight  years  old,  and  receive  the 
laying  on  of  the  hands."  (Ibid.,  68:26- 
27.) 

He  did  not  say  that  parents  could  wait 
until  children  are  nine  or  ten  or  older 
before  baptism,  neither  does  he  suggest 
that  parents  can  permit  their  children 
to  grow  up  to  maturity  and  decide  for 
themselves  whether  they  should  be  bap- 
tized. The  Lord  said  they  "shall  be 
baptized  .  .  .  when  eight  years  old." 
There  can  be  no  question  about  our 
understanding  of  this  instruction. 

Because  some  parents  have  not  at- 
tended to  this  important  counsel,  many 
of  their  children  today  and  the  posterity 
of  these  children  are  out  of  the  Church, 
separated  from  the  greatest  gift  in  life, 
and  thus  are  denied  all  of  the  blessings 
which  they  could  otherwise  have  re- 
ceived from  faithful  Church  member- 
ship. 

The  revelation  continues  with  this 
further  admonition  to  parents: 

"And  they  shall  also  teach  their  chil- 
dren to  pray,  and  to  walk  uprightly  be- 
fore the  Lord. 

"And  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  shall 
also  observe  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep 
it  holy."  (Ibid.,  68:28-29.) 

The  Lord  closes  this  particular  in- 
struction to  parents,  by  saying: 


98  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  9 

"Now,  I,  the  Lord,  am  not  well  pleased 
with  the  inhabitants  of  Zion,  .  .  .  and 
their  children  are  also  growing  up  in 
wickedness;  they  also  seek  not  earnestly 
the  riches  of  eternity,  but  their  eyes  are 
full  of  greediness. 

"These  things,"  said  the  Lord,  "ought 
not  to  be,  and  must  be  done  away  from 
among  them.  .  . ."  (Ibid.,  68:31-32.) 

To  prevent  these  conditions  with  their 
penalties,  parents  who  desire  to  abide 
by  counsel  have  no  alternative  except  to 
follow  religiously  the  admonition  and 
instruction  the  Lord  has  given  them  in 
this  revelation.  He  also  issued  an  addi- 
tional warning,  which  admonishes  par- 
ents of  the  obligation  they  have  for  the 
spiritual  upbringing  of  their  children. 

In  this  revelation,  the  Lord  said  that 
"The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence,  or, 
in  other  words,  light  and  truth. 

"Light  and  truth,"  said  the  Lord,  "for- 
sake that  evil  one."  (Ibid.,  93:36-37.) 

Then  he  goes  on  to  say  that  "Every 
spirit  of  man  was  innocent  in  the  be- 
ginning; and  God  having  redeemed  man 
from  the  fall,  men  became  again,  in 
their  infant  state,  innocent  before  God." 
(Ibid.,  93:38.) 

And  then  the  warning  of  the  Lord: 

"And  that  wicked  one  cometh  and 
taketh  away  light  and  truth,  through 
disobedience,  from  the  children  of  men, 
and  because  of  the  tradition  of  their 
fathers."  (Ibid.,  93:39.) 

It  is  the  power  of  the  wicked  one  or 
Satan  to  deceive  and  lead  children  astray 
after  they  arrive  at  the  years  of  ac- 
countability, which  parents  must  guard 
against,  not  only  by  teaching  their  chil- 
dren correct  principles,  doctrines,  and 
life's  true  values,  but  also  by  setting  the 
proper  example  before  them;  otherwise, 
false  traditions  will  be  built  up  in  the 
home  which  children  will  absorb  to 
their  eternal  harm. 

As  parents  we  should  ask  ourselves 
this  question:  What  kind  of  traditions 
are  we  building  up  in  our  home  for 
our  children  to  absorb  and  accept  into 
the  pattern  of  their  own  lives?  Like 
father,  like  son;  like  mother,  like  daugh- 
ter, is  so  true.  What  is  good  enough  for 
parents  is  considered  by  children  to  be 
good  enough  for  them.  What  parents 
do  gives  license  for  children  to  do. 

Again  may  I  ask,  what  are  the  tradi- 
tions of  our  Latter-day  Saint  homes?  Do 


Third  Day 

we  have  mutual  love,  respect,  admira- 
tion, and  loyal  devotion  between  par- 
ents? Are  we  observing  the  Sabbath  day 
to  keep  it  holy?  Are  we  attending  to 
our  meetings  regularly?  Are  we  taking 
our  children  to  Church  rather  than 
sending  them?  Are  we  obeying  the 
Word  of  Wisdom?  Are  we  having  fam- 
ily prayer  in  the  home  twice  daily?  Are 
we  permitting  our  children  to  take  their 
turn  in  family  prayer?  Are  we  paying 
an  honest  tithing?  Are  we  honest  and 
truthful  in  our  dealings  with  our  fellow 
men?  Are  we  obeying  the  law  of  chas- 
tity? Are  we  keeping  the  commandments 
of  God  fully  and  always  setting  a  proper 
example  before  our  children?  Are  we 
responding  to  ecclesiastical  authority 
and  supporting  and  speaking  well  of 
those  who  preside  over  us? 

These  are  just  a  few  of  the  things  that 
decide  the  kind  of  traditions  in  our 
homes  and  determine  whether  they  are 
good  or  bad.  Remember  that  Israel  was 
so  steeped  in  the  false  traditions  of  their 
fathers  that  they  did  not  recognize  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  when  he  came  among 
them  to  set  up  the  kingdom  of  God  on 
earth.  They  crucified  him  for  no  just 
cause. 

The  traditions  of  our  own  homes  could 
blind  the  eyes  and  minds  of  our  chil- 
dren against  all  truth,  just  principles, 
and  spiritual  values,  and  could  cause 
them  to  depart  from  the  right  course 
they  must  follow  to  earn  for  them- 
selves eternal  joy  and  happiness. 

Now,  after  calling  attention  to  the 
traditions  of  the  fathers,  the  Lord  said 
to  the  parents  of  the  Church: 

"But  I  have  commanded  you  to  bring 
up  your  children  in  light  and  truth." 
(Ibid.,  93:40.) 

To  bring  up  children  in  light  and 
truth  is  to  bring  them  up  in  an  under- 
standing and  acceptance  of  the  true  word 
of  God.  Do  our  children  understand  the 
doctrine  of  repentance,  of  faith  in  Christ 
the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  and  the  im- 
portance of  baptism,  its  purpose,  signifi- 
cance, and  value  to  them  in  their  lives? 
Do  they  understand  the  need  of  receiv- 
ing the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and  what 
the  powers  and  functions  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  are,  and  the  blessings  which  are 
theirs  through  possessing  this  divine 
gift? 

I  will  close  by  quoting  a  warning  the 


ELDER  DELBE 

Lord  gave  to  Frederick  G.  Williams, 
Second  Counselor  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith: 

".  .  .  You  have  continued  under  this 
condemnation; 

"You  have  not  taught  your  children 
light  and  truth,  according  to  the  com- 
mandments; and  that  wicked  one  hath 
power,  as  yet,  over  you,  and  this  is  the 
cause  of  your  affliction. 

"And  now  a  commandment  I  give 
unto  you — if  you  will  be  delivered  you 
shall  set  in  order  your  own  house,  for 
there  are  many  things  that  are  not 
right  in  your  house."  (Ibid.,  93:41-43.) 

The  Lord  gave  similar  counsel  and 
admonition  at  this  same  time  to  other 
of  the  brethren,  after  which  he  applied 
the  warning  to  all  of  us  by  saying: 

"What  I  say  unto  one  I  say  unto  all; 
pray  always  lest  that  wicked  one  have 
power  in  you,  and  remove  you  out  of 
your  place."  (Ibid.,  93:49.) 

I  earnestly  pray,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  that  we  will  not  permit  the  things 
of  the  world  to  lure  us  away  into  com- 
placency and  peaceful  contentment  and 
cause  us  to  fail  in  these  important  ob- 
ligations imposed  upon  us  by  the  Lord 
in  the  teaching,  training,  and  proper 
upbringing  of  our  children  in  the  gospel 
of  Christ,  which  failure  would  cause 
us  to  be  removed  out  of  our  place  and 
our  children  to  be  denied  those  blessings 
which  they  are  entitled  to  receive  from 
us,  their  parents,  to  enrich  their  lives 
here  and  hereafter. 

God  bless  us  to  recognize  the  responsi- 
bility and  obligation  we  have  to  our 
children.  God  bless  us  to  understand 
the  gospel  and  to  be  able  to  teach  it  so 
that  our  children  will  understand  and 
learn  to  love  and  desire  to  obey  the 
commandments  that  the  Lord  has  given 
for  their  guidance  and  their  blessing. 
This  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  The  closing  song  by  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir  will  be  "Still,  Still  With 
Thee,"  conducted  by  Elder  Richard  P. 
Condie.  The  benediction  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  J.  Golden  Snow,  president  of 
the  Taylor  Stake,  following  which  this 


T  L.  STAPLEY  99 

conference  will  be  adjourned  until  2:00 
o'clock  this  afternoon. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  in  bringing  to  a 
conclusion  this  sixth  session  of  the  130th 
Semi-annual  Conference,  we  express  our 
sincere  appreciation  to  the  owners  and 
managers  of  the  many  television  and 
radio  stations  that  have  offered  their 
facilities  to  us.  We  are  grateful  for  this 
wonderful  public  service.  Thirty-two 
cities  in  the  West  are  carrying  the  pro- 
ceedings of  this  Conference  through  radio 
and  television.  According  to  a  survey 
that  has  been  made,  it  is  estimated  that 
well  over  a  million  people  are  listening 
in  this  morning. 

We  are  grateful  for  the  attendance  of 
all  here  present  in  the  Tabernacle  and 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall 
and  in  other  gatherings  where  this  Con- 
ference is  seen  and  heard. 

We  have  a  message  this  morning  from 
President  Asael  T.  Sorensen  and  his 
wife  down  in  Brazil:  "At  the  close  of 
our  first  year  in  this  new  mission  we  now 
have  102  full  time  missionaries,  34  part 
time  missionaries,  and  more  than  1800 
members.  The  work  is  progressing  rapid- 
ly, even  though  the  Adversary  is  hard 
at  work  on  every  hand."  They  send 
kindly  personal  regards.  You  under- 
stand that  in  South  Brazil  a  new  mis- 
sion was  just  recently  formed. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  the  presence 
here  this  morning,  also,  of  Dr.  and  Mrs. 
J.  Mueller  Stalinbausch  of  South  Africa. 
He  is  editor,  author,  lecturer,  and  min- 
ister of  the  Dutch  Reformed  Church, 
National  Chairman  of  Students  of 
Christ  and  Association  of  South  Africa. 

We  desire  to  acknowledge  the  pres- 
ence this  morning  of  the  following  na- 
tional, state  and  local  authorities,  sev- 
eral of  whom  we  have  noted  throughout 
the  entire  proceeding  of  this  Conference: 
The  Honorable  Wallace  F.  Bennett, 
United  States  Senator;  The  Honorable 
Frank  E.  Moss,  United  States  Senator; 
The  Honorable  David  S.  King,  U.  S. 
House  of  Representatives;  The  Honor- 
able H.  Aldous  Dixon,  U.  S.  House  of 
Representatives;  The  Honorable  George 
Dewey  Clyde,  Governor  of  our  State; 
in  the  educational  institutions:  Dr. 
Ernest  L.  Wilkinson  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University;  Dr.  A.  Ray  Olpin, 
president  of  the  University  of  Utah — we 


100 

Sunday,  October  9 

wish  you  had  heard  your  singers  yester- 
day, they  were  beautiful,  thank  them 
for  us  again;  Dr.  Daryl  Chase,  president 
of  the  Utah  State  University;  Dr.  Arthur 
Bruhn,  of  Dixie  College;  Dr.  M.  Lynn 
Bennion,  Superintendent  of  Salt  Lake 
Schools;  Dr.  William  P.  Miller,  presi- 
dent of  Weber  College;  Dr.  John  L. 
Clarke,  who  is  president  of  Ricks  Col- 
lege; Dr.  Floyd  Holm,  Director  of  Snow 
College;  Dr.  Royden  C.  Braithwaite, 
president  of  College  of  Southern  Utah; 
Dr.  Howard  McDonald,  president  of 
Los  Angeles  State  College;  Dr.  John  T. 
Wahlquist,  president  of  the  San  Jose 
State  College;  and  others  probably  whom 
we  have  failed  to  recognize,  but  whom 
we  welcome  with  all  our  hearts. 

We  recognize,  too,  and  are  pleased 
with  the  presence  of  our  stake  presi- 
dencies, bishoprics,  temple  presidencies, 
our  mission  presidents  who  have  been 
in  session  all  week,  and  our  general 
auxiliary  officers. 

To  all  we  extend  a  cordial  welcome. 
It  is  glorious  to  meet  with  you  and  have 
you  partake  of  the  spirit  of  this  great 
Conference,  and  to  let  us  partake  of 
your  spirit  and  feel  your  support. 

We  hoped  to  mention  while  we  were 
on  television  to  the  Coast,  that  these 
antheriums  which  you  see  arranged  on 
the  rostrum  were  sent  from  Hawaii  with 
the  affectionate  greetings  of  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  in  the  Honolulu 
Stake.   President  Quealy,  please  express 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

to  all  your  members  our  appreciation  of 
this. 

I  have  mentioned  already  our  meeting 
last  evening  at  which  members  of  the 
Priesthood  were  assembled  in  closed 
circuits  throughout  the  United  States, 
Canada,  Mexico,  and  New  Zealand, 
nearly  50,000  men  of  the  Priesthood 
gathered  in  that  Priesthood  Meeting. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing,  "Still,  Still 
With  Thee,"  and  President  J.  Golden 
Snow  of  the  Taylor  Stake  will  offer  the 
benediction  and  this  Conference  will  be 
adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this  after- 
noon. 

Singing  by  the  Choir,  "Still,  Still 
With  Thee." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Twelve  and  the  As- 
sistants to  the  Twelve  will  please  meet 
the  First  Presidency  at  4:30  this  after- 
noon in  the  upper  room  of  the  Temple. 
I  mention  it  now  so  that  you  will  make 
arrangements  during  the  noon  hour  if 
necessary. 

President  J.  Golden  Snow,  president 
of  the  Taylor  Stake,  will  now  offer  the 
benediction. 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  J.  Golden  Snow,  president  of  the 
Taylor  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  concluding  session  of  the  Confer- 
ence was  held  at  2  p.m.,  Sunday,  Octo- 
ber 9,  1960  in  the  great  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle,  with  President  David  O. 
McKay  presiding  and  conducting  the 
services  of  the  meeting. 

The  singing  for  this  session  of  the 
Conference  was  furnished  by  the  Salt 
Lake  Tabernacle  Choir,  Richard  P. 
Condie,  Director.  Alexander  Schreiner 
was  at  the  organ. 

Introductory  remarks  by  President 
McKay: 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Mentioning  those  whose  attendance 
we  appreciate  at  this  Conference,  among 
the  educational  circles,  we  omitted  Dr. 
Clifton  B.  Boyack  who  is  head  of  the 
Church  College  of  New  Zealand.  We 
are  glad  he  has  been  in  attendance. 

Members  of  the  Church  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City  in  this  con- 
cluding session  of  the  130th  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church.    The  Tab- 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


101 


ernacle  is  crowded.  Those  who  are 
standing  will  find  that  overflow  services 
are  being  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall 
and  Barratt  Hall.  The  names  of  the 
stations  over  which  these  services  are 
broadcast  have  already  been  announced 
to  the  listeners. 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 
rendered  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with 
Richard  P.  Condie  conducting  and 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ.  We 
shall  begin  these  services  by  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  singing,  "Seek  Him  That 
Maketh  the  Seven  Stars."  Brother  Jay 
Welch,  assistant  conductor,  will  direct 
that  song. 

The  invocation  will  be  offered  by 
President  Grant  M.  Burbidge  of  the  Pio- 
neer Stake. 

"Seek  Him  That  Maketh  the  Seven 
Stars,"  will  now  be  sung  by  the  Choir. 

An  anthem  was  sung  by  the  Choir, 
"Seek  Him  That  Maketh  The  Seven 


Stars,"  Jay  Welch,  Assistant  Tabernacle 
Choir  director,  conducting. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Grant  M.  Burbidge,  president  of 
the  Pioneer  Stake. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  just  offered  by 
President  Grant  M.  Burbidge  of  the 
Pioneer  Stake.  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
will  now  sing,  "Psalm  148,"  conducted 
by  Richard  P.  Condie.  After  the  sing- 
ing, Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  will  speak 
to  us. 

The  Choir  sang,  "Psalm  148." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  will  be  our  first 
speaker  this  afternoon.  He  will  be 
followed  by  Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


In  keeping  with  the  spirit  of  that  master- 
ful opening  address  by  President  McKay, 
I  desire  to  discuss  a  matter  that  has  con- 
cerned me  deeply  for  several  months. 
Trusting  the  Lord  will  approve,  I  take  as 
my  text  these  sober  words  of  warning 
from  an  ancient  American  prophet: 

"And  others  will  he  pacify,  and  lull 
them  away  into  carnal  security,  that  they 
will  say:  All  is  well  in  Zion;  yea,  Zion 
prospereth,  all  is  well — and  thus  the 
devil  cheateth  their  souls,  and  leadeth 
them  away  carefully  down  to  hell. 

"Therefore,  wo  be  unto  him  that  is  at 
ease  in  Zion  I 

"Wo  be  unto  him  that  crieth:  All  is 
well!"  (2  Nephi  28:21,  24-25.) 

We  must  not  be  deceived — all  is  not 
well. 

We  live  today  in  an  age  of  peril.  It  is 
an  age  in  which  we  are  threatened  with 
the  loss  not  only  of  wealth  and  material 
prosperity,  but  also  of  something  far 
more  precious — our  freedom  itself.  The 
very  thing  that  distinguishes  man  from 
the  beasts — man's  freedom  to  act:  free- 
dom to  choose — is  threatened  as  never 


before  by  a  total  and  atheistic  philosophy 
of  life  known  as  communism. 

In  April,  I  called  your  attention  briefly 
to  the  nature  of  communism.  Let  us 
remember  these  basic  facts. 

Those  who  subscribe  to  this  philoso- 
phy stop  at  nothing  to  achieve  their  ends. 
They  do  not  hesitate  to  destroy — if  they 
are  strong  enough — whatever  stands  in 
their  way.  Our  own  generation  has  wit- 
nessed the  Russian  communists  liquidate 
millions  of  their  fellow  countrymen. 
Even  more  recently  we  have  seen  the 
Chinese  communists  wipe  out  millions 
of  their  fellow  countrymen — no  one 
knows  the  exact  number. 

To  the  true  communist,  nothing  is  evil 
if  it  is  expedient.  Being  without  con- 
science or  honor,  he  feels  completely 
justified  in  using  whatever  means  are 
necessary  to  achieve  his  goal:  force, 
trickery,  lies,  broken  promises,  mayhem, 
and  individual  and  mass  murder. 

By  these  ruthless  means  communism 
has,  in  a  little  over  forty  years,  brought 
more  people  under  its  domination  than 
the  total  number  of  Christians  now  liv- 


102  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  9 

ing  in  the  entire  world — and  Christian- 
ity, as  the  world  thinks  of  it,  has  been 
in  existence  for  nearly  two  thousand 
years. 

And  what  has  been  the  result? 

First,  in  the  economic  area,  men  and 
women  have  been  stripped  of  their  prop- 
erty, their  savings  confiscated,  their  farms 
taken  from  them,  their  businesses  seized 
by  the  state.  They  work  where  they  are 
commanded  to  work  and  for  such  wages 
as  the  state  chooses  to  provide.  They 
cannot  quit,  take  another  job,  or  rebel  in 
any  tangible  way.  They  are  the  puppets 
of  the  all-powerful  state. 

Second,  in  the  intellectual  area,  they 
are  forbidden  to  listen  to  radio  broad- 
casts not  approved  by  the  state.  They 
have  little  or  no  access  to  free  world 
books,  magazines,  and  newspapers.  They 
have  no  voice  in  the  education  of  their 
children  in  the  schools.  They  and  their 
children  are  cast  in  a  communist  mold. 
To  write  or  speak  against  the  state  is  to 
ask  for  exile,  imprisonment,  or  possibly 
even  death. 

Third,  in  the  area  of  morals,  faith  in 
moral  principle  is  ruthlessly  ridiculed 
and  stripped  of  dignity.  The  belief  that 
man  has  certain  inalienable  rights,  so 
endowed  by  his  Creator,  is  categorically 
denied.  Atheistic  communist  leaders, 
scoffers  at  God  himself,  are  striving  to 
blot  the  Almighty  out  of  the  minds  of 
one-third  of  the  world's  people. 

To  do  all  this,  they  rule  with  iron 
fists.  They  seek  to  hammer  into  obliv- 
ion all  who  would  oppose  them.  Indeed 
it  is  true  as  the  poet  said: 

"Man's  inhumanity  to  man 
Makes  countless  thousands  mourn." 
(Robert  Burns,  Man  Was  Made  to 
Mourn,  Stanza  7.) 

Let  us  have  no  illusions  about  them. 
Their  leader  has  told  us  bluntly — their 
purpose  is  not  alone  to  enslave  us — they 
want  to  bury  us. 

And  while  it  is  apparently  true  that 
Chairman  Khrushchev  is  content  for  the 
time  being  at  least  to  avoid  war  as  a 
means  of  communist  expansion,  there  is 
little  doubt  that  the  leaders  of  Red  China 
view  war  as  inevitable  and  await  only 
the  propitious  moment  in  which  to 
strike. 

What  we  face  today  is  not  just  a  cold 


Third  Day 

war,  not  just  a  struggle  for  the  control 
of  land,  sea,  air,  and  even  outer  space, 
but  total  competition  for  the  control  of 
men's  minds.  Unless  we  meet  it  and  de- 
feat it,  we  shall  almost  inevitably  one 
day  face  the  loss  of  all  that  we  hold  dear. 

In  less  than  half  a  century,  I  repeat, 
this  evil  system  has  gained  control  over 
one-third  of  mankind,  and  it  is  steadily 
pursuing  its  vicious  goal  of  control  over 
all  the  rest  of  the  world.  It  is  time,  and 
past  time,  for  us  to  be  alarmed.  "Wo  be 
unto  him  that  is  at  ease.  Wo  be  unto  him 
that  crieth  'all  is  well.'  "  (2  Nephi  28:24- 
25.) 

Latin  America  does  not  believe  that 
suppression  is  the  road  to  freedom. 

Less  than  fifteen  years  ago  commu- 
nism was  not  a  powerful  force  in  Latin 
America.  Today,  it  is  not  only  strongly 
present  there  as  an  enemy  to  be  reckoned 
with,  it  is  openly  allied  with  a  govern- 
ment located  on  an  island  only  about 
ninety  miles  south  of  Key  West,  Florida. 

The  only  political  party  now  function- 
ing in  Cuba  is  the  Popular  Socialist  Par- 
ty, the  Communist  Party  under  another 
name. 

Cuba  is  being  used  as  a  funnel  through 
which  communists  are  infiltrating  other 
American  republics. 

True  to  communist  and  dictator  tradi- 
tion, the  Cuban  government  has  de- 
prived its  people  of  the  rights  of  a  free 
press,  free  elections,  and  the  protection 
of  other  fundamental  human  rights. 

And  last  August,  even  as  the  Organiza- 
tion of  American  States  met  in  San  Jose, 
Costa  Rica,  Fidel  Castro  was  shouting 
defiantly:  "We  shall  be  friends  of  the 
Soviet  Union  and  the  People's  Republic 
of  China." 

How  did  this  situation  come  about? 
How  has  it  been  possible  for  this  com- 
pletely warped  philosophy  in  such  a 
short  time  to  reach  its  present  position  of 
influence  in  the  world?  How  is  it  possible 
for  communism  to  be  here  and  now 
moving  into  Africa,  pressing  upon  all  of 
Asia,  threatening  the  Middle  East  and 
increasingly  becoming  a  danger  in  the 
western  hemisphere? 

There  are,  of  course,  many  reasons. 
Some  nations  have  failed  to  provide  for 
the  advancement  and  desperate  physical 
needs  of  their  people.  Others  have  failed 
to  recognize  the  worth  of  the  individual. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


103 


But  is  it  not  perhaps  true  that  the  biggest 
reason  of  all  is  the  failure  of  western 
civilization  to  live  up  to  its  Christian 
ideals? 

Is  it  perhaps  true  that,  as  Dr.  Charles 
Malik,  the  great  Lebanese  leader  and 
former  President  of  the  United  Nations 
General  Assembly,  has  said, 

"The  deepest  crisis  of  the  West  is  the 
crisis  of  faith.  .  .  .  Western  civilization  is 
doomed  until,  jolted  out  of  its  compla- 
cency, self-satisfaction  and  sense  of 
apartness,  it  rediscovers  and  reaffirms 
what  is  genuinely  human  and  universal 
in  its  own  soul"? 

Let  us  examine  our  own  lives  and  the 
life  of  our  own  beloved  land. 

How  richly  we  the  people  of  the 
United  States  have  been  blessed! 

Truly  ours  is  a  choice  land — a  land  of 
great  favors  and  opportunities.  Yet  is 
it  not  true  that  these  very  blessings 
could  prove  to  be  our  undoing  unless 
our  perspective  is  right  and  our  idealism 
more  concerned  with  eternal  standards 
and  values  than  with  material  gain  and 
worldly  honors? 

How  does  our  nation  stand? 

Are  not  many  of  us  materialistic?  Do 
we  not  find  it  well-nigh  impossible  to 
raise  our  sights  above  the  dollar  sign? 

Are  not  many  of  us  pragmatists — liv- 
ing not  by  principle  but  by  what  we  can 
get  away  with? 

Are  not  many  of  us  status-seekers — 
measuring  the  worth  of  a  man  by  the 
size  of  his  bank  account,  his  house,  his 
automobile? 

Are  we  not  complacent,  given  to  self- 
satisfaction  and  self-congratulation  — 
willing  to  co-exist  with  evil  ...  so  long 
as  it  does  not  touch  us  personally? 

If  the  answer  to  these  questions  is, 
"yes" — and  who  can  honestly  give  a  dif- 
ferent answer? — then  surely  these  are 
among  the  many  reasons  why  this  is 
truly  an  era  of  peril. 

Many  of  us  have  a  tendency  to  forget 
the  Gracious  Hand  which  has  preserved 
our  nation,  enriched  it,  strengthened  it. 
Many  of  us  imagine  in  the  foolishness 
of  pride,  that  our  manifold  blessings  are 
due  not  to  God's  goodness,  but  to  our 
own  wisdom  and  virtue.  Too  many  of 
us  have  been  so  drunk  with  self-suffi- 
ciency as  no  longer  to  feel  the  need  of 
prayer.    Too  many  have  forgotten  the 


necessity  of  courage,  of  sacrifice,  of  vigi- 
lance, of  devotion  to  the  cause  of  free- 
dom. 

We  must  revivify  Western  ideals  and 
in  particular  the  ideals  of  our  own  great 
nation.  We  must  call  back  the  spirit  of 
the  dauntless  leaders  of  the  past.  We 
must  meet  our  present-day  challenge  not 
with  softness  and  complacency,  but  with 
the  depth,  wisdom,  and  daring  that  char- 
acterized America  in  the  days  of  old. 

We  have  a  rich  history  to  guide  us. 
Think  back  with  me  a  moment  to  the 
year  1823.  In  that  year  James  Monroe 
of  Virginia  was  President.  John  Quincy 
Adams  of  Massachusetts  was  Secretary 
of  State.  These  two  men  formed  and 
announced  a  policy  which  has  pro- 
foundly influenced  the  development  of 
our  entire  hemisphere. 

Here  was  the  situation  that  called 
forth  this  policy — known  as  the  Monroe 
Doctrine — in  1823. 

Several  of  what  are  now  the  Latin 
American  Republics  had  by  force  of 
arms  newly  won  their  independence 
from  Spain  and  Portugal.  Among  them 
were  Colombia,  Mexico,  Chile,  and 
Brazil. 

Meantime,  a  number  of  the  sovereigns 
of  Europe  were  seeking  to  enforce  the 
"divine  right  of  kings"  with  the  express 
purpose  of  putting  "an  end  to  the  sys- 
tem of  representative  government." 

France,  accordingly,  had  proceeded  to 
restore  the  rule  of  Ferdinand  VII  in 
Spain.  Now  these  countries  proposed  to 
overthrow  the  new  and  independent  gov- 
ernments in  Latin  America. 

This  our  government  refused  to  per- 
mit. It  said  so  plainly  in  the  celebrated 
Monroe  Doctrine.  The  heart  of  the 
Monroe  Doctrine  consisted  of  these 
words:  ".  .  .  the  American  continents,  by 
the  free  and  independent  condition 
which  they  have  assumed  and  main- 
tained, are  henceforth  not  to  be  consid- 
ered as  subjects  for  future  colonization 
by  any  European  power." 

And  the  doctrine  went  on  to  spell  out 
clearly  just  what  was  meant. 

"The  political  system  of  the  allied 
powers  is  essentially  different  .  .  .  from 
that  of  America.  .  .  .  We  owe  it,  there- 
fore, to  candor,  and  to  the  amicable  re- 
lations existing  between  the  United 
States  and  those  powers,  to  declare  that 


104  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  9 

we  should  consider  any  attempt  on  their 
part  to  extend  their  system  to  any  por- 
tion of  this  hemisphere  as  dangerous  to 
our  peace  and  safety." 

Now  there  is  a  statement  which  might 
well  be  engraved  in  all  the  capitals  of 
all  the  countries  in  this  hemisphere  to- 
day. Every  word  in  it  is  as  applicable 
today  as  it  was  one  hundred  thirty-seven 
years  ago. 

Surely  if  it  were  true  a  century  and 
a  half  ago  that  European  monarchy  was 
essentially  different  from  our  American 
system  of  representative  government,  it 
is  even  more  true  today  that  the  com- 
munist system  is  totally  different,  totally 
incompatible,  totally  inimical  to  our  free 
way  of  life. 

The  ancient  American  Prophet  Moroni 
saw  our  day.  Who  can  doubt  that  he  had 
in  mind  the  evils  of  godless  communism 
when  he  gave  this  solemn  warning: 

"Wherefore,  O  ye  Gentiles,  it  is  wis- 
dom in  God  that  these  things  should  be 
shown  unto  you,  that  thereby  ye  may  re- 
pent of  your  sins,  and  suffer  not  that 
these  murderous  combinations  shall  get 
above  you,  which  are  built  up  to  get 
power  and  gain — and  the  work,  yea,  even 
the  work  of  destruction  come  upon  you, 
yea,  even  the  sword  of  the  justice  of  the 
Eternal  God  shall  fall  upon  you,  to  your 
overthrow  and  destruction  if  ye  shall 
suffer  these  things  to  be. 

"Wherefore,  the  Lord  commandeth 
you,  when  ye  shall  see  these  things  come 
among  you  that  ye  shall  awake  to  a 
sense  of  your  awful  situation,  because 
of  this  secret  combination  which  shall 
be  among  you;  or  wo  be  unto  it,  because 
of  the  blood  of  them  who  have  been 
slain;  for  they  cry  from  the  dust  for 
vengeance  upon  it,  and  also  upon  those 
who  built  it  up. 

"For  it  cometh  to  pass  that  whoso 
buildeth  it  up  seeketh  to  overthrow  the 
freedom  of  all  lands,  nations,  and  coun- 
tries; and  it  bringeth  to  pass  the  destruc- 
tion of  all  people,  for  it  is  built  up  by 
the  devil,  who  is  the  father  of  all  lies." 

(Ether  8:23-25.) 

We  are  eminently  justified  in  declar- 
ing that  we  should  consider  any  attempt 
on  the  part  of  the  communists  to  extend 
their  system  to  any  part  of  this  hemis- 
phere as  dangerous  to  our  peace  and 
safety. 


Third  Day 

President  Eisenhower  said  as  much  in 
his  reply  to  the  tirade  of  Chairman 
Khrushchev  last  summer.  But  it  is  not 
enough  to  say  this  once,  nor  is  it  enough 
for  the  President  alone  to  say  it.  It 
should  be  repeated  again  and  again  and 
again,  and  it  should  be  supported  by  all 
true  Americans  speaking  as  with  one 
voice. 

Moreover,  the  Monroe  Doctrine  went 
on:  "Nor  can  anyone  believe  that  our 
southern  brethren  if  left  to  themselves, 
would  adopt  it  [this  system]  of  their  own 
accord."  Here  again  the  words  of  the 
Monroe  Doctrine  ring  true. 

It  is  almost  unthinkable  that  any 
people  would  knowingly  and  wilfully 
take  on  themselves  the  yoke  of  commu- 
nist oppression.  No  people,  no  nation, 
has  ever  done  so  yet.  If  large  masses  of 
the  Cuban  people  have  done  so,  it  is  be- 
cause they  have  been  duped  or  coerced. 

This  Monroe  Doctrine  has  been  the 
continuing  policy  of  our  nation  for  al- 
most a  century  and  a  half. 

It  has  been  reaffirmed  by  many  Ameri- 
can Presidents. 

We  are  on  solid,  traditional  American 
ground  in  demanding  that  the  commu- 
nists should  not  attempt  to  extend  their 
political  system  to  this  side  of  the  At- 
lantic Ocean. 

In  recent  years  the  principles  of  the 
Monroe  Doctrine  have  been  strengthened 
by  various  joint  agreements  among  the 
American  nations. 

In  1947,  nineteen  American  nations 
met  in  conference  in  Rio  de  Janeiro,  and 
on  September  2  of  that  year  signed  the 
treaty  of  Rio  de  Janeiro  in  which  they 
promised  to  help  one  another  in  case  of 
aggression. 

On  March  1,  1954,  the  tenth  Inter- 
American  Conference  opened  in  Caracas, 
Venezuela.  When  we  read  now,  six 
years  later,  the  running  account  of  that 
conference,  it  is  almost  as  though  we 
were  scanning  a  preview  of  history.  On 
March  4,  for  example,  our  late  great 
Secretary  of  State,  John  Foster  Dulles, 
urged  the  American  states  to  stop  the 
communists  now. 

On  March  6,  the  United  States 
presented  a  draft  resolution  condemning 
communism  as  foreign  intervention  and 
calling  for  joint  action  against  it  when 
needed. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


105 


On  March  13,  1954,  the  conference 
adopted  by  a  vote  of  17  to  1  the  anti- 
communist  resolution  that  had  been 
presented  by  the  United  States.  Guate- 
mala dissented,  and  Mexico  and  Argen- 
tina abstained. 

Referring  to  the  Caracas  conference, 
President  Eisenhower  said,  "In  this 
hemisphere  we  have  stressed  our  solid 
understanding  with  our  American  neigh- 
bors. . . .  The  American  republics  agreed 
that  if  international  communism  were 
to  gain  control  of  the  political  institu- 
tion of  any  American  state,  this  control 
would  endanger  them  all  and  therefore 
would  demand  collective  action." 

Very  shortly  after  the  close  of  the  Car- 
acas conference  such  a  communist  threat 
arose  in  Guatemala.  The  pro-communist 
government  of  Guatemala,  aided  by 
shipments  of  arms  from  behind  the  Iron 
Curtain,  had  moved  very  rapidly  to  the 
left.  The  Organization  of  American 
States  had  already  convoked  a  meeting 
of  foreign  ministers  under  the  Rio 
Treaty  to  consider  the  serious  situation 
which  had  developed,  when  the  Guate- 
malans themselves  rose  up  and  removed 
the  threat.  The  meeting  never  convened. 
Fighting  broke  out  in  Guatemala,  and 
the  communist  government  was  over- 
thrown. 

All  this  was  before  the  coming  to  pow- 
er of  the  present  leadership  in  Cuba. 
Now  the  Western  Hemisphere  faces  a 
new  danger — a  new  threat. 

Our  government  is  alert  to  the  situa- 
tion. The  Organization  of  American 
States  has  condemned  Russian-Chinese 
interference  in  American  affairs.  These 
are  first  steps. 

But  we  must  do  more.  As  a  nation  we 
must  cease  to  take  Latin  American  se- 
curity for  granted.  We  must  lead  this 
hemisphere  in  stimulating  and  co-operat- 
ing in  a  program  of  Latin  American  eco- 
nomic development. 

But  even  this  is  not  enough.  You  and 
I  and  all  true  Americans  must  play  our 
part,  too. 

What  can  you  and  I  do?  What  can 
we  do  to  help  meet  this  grave  challenge 
from  a  godless,  atheistic,  cruelly  mate- 
rialistic system — to  preserve  our  God- 
given  free  way  of  life? 

We  can  encourage  our  government  to 
stand  firm  at  all  costs  against  any  fur- 


ther expansion  of  communism  into  the 
free  world. 

We  can  tell  our  government  that  we 
are  willing  to  sacrifice  our  luxuries  in 
exchange  for  an  impregnable  defense. 

We  can  support  our  government  in 
keeping  the  flame  of  freedom  burning  in 
the  souls  of  the  oppressed — wherever 
they  may  be  throughout  the  world. 

But,  above  all,  we  can  face  up  to  the 
decay  in  our  own  civilization. 

The  communists  bring  to  the  nations 
they  infiltrate  a  message  and  a  philos- 
ophy that  affects  human  life  in  its  en- 
tirety. Communism  seeks  to  provide, 
what  in  too  many  instances  a  lukewarm 
Christianity  has  not  provided,  a  total 
interpretation  of  life.  Communists  are 
willing  to  be  revolutionary;  to  take  a 
stand  for  this  and  against  that.  They 
challenge  what  they  do  not  believe  in — 
customs,  practices,  ideas,  traditions.  They 
believe  heatedly  in  their  philosophy. 

But  our  civilization  and  our  people 
are  seemingly  afraid  to  be  revolutionary. 
We  are  too  "broadminded"  to  challenge 
what  we  do  not  believe  in.  We  are 
afraid  of  being  thought  intolerant,  un- 
couth, ungentlemanly.  We  have  become 
lukewarm  in  our  beliefs.  And  for  that 
we  perhaps  merit  the  bitter  condemna- 
tion stated  in  Revelation  3:16:  "So  then 
because  thou  art  lukewarm,  and  neither 
cold  nor  hot,  I  will  spue  thee  out  of 
my  mouth." 

This  is  a  sad  commentary  on  a  civiliza- 
tion which  has  given  to  mankind  the 
greatest  achievements  and  progress  ever 
known.  But  it  is  an  even  sadder  com- 
mentary on  those  of  us  who  call  our- 
selves Christians,  who  thus  betray  the 
ideals  given  to  us  by  the  Son  of  God 
himself. 

Let  us  awaken  to  our  responsibilities 
and  to  our  opportunities.  Again  I  quote 
Dr.  Malik: 

"The  civilization  which  has  been 
blessed  and  transformed  by  Christ,  needs 
only  a  mighty  hand  to  shake  it  out  of 
its  slumber.  And,  once  shaken,  once 
really  awakened  to  the  world  responsi- 
bilities which  it  and  it  alone  can  shoul- 
der, there  is  nothing  it  cannot  dare  and 
do." 

Do  we  believe  that?  Then  let  us  live 
up  to  that  faith!  For  in  that  faith — and 
through  that  faith — we  can  rise  trium- 


106 

Sunday,  October  9 

phant  over  the  menace  of  atheistic  com- 
munism.  We  can  and  we  must! 

In  this  dark  hour,  the  fate  of  the  world 
seems  to  rest  largely  in  our  hands.  We 
who  live  in  this  choice  land,  in  fact  all 
of  the  land  of  Zion,  have  the  opportu- 
nity, the  responsibility,  and  the  solemn 
obligation  to  stand  firm  for  freedom  and 
justice  and  morality — the  dignity  and 
brotherhood  of  man  as  a  child  of  God. 

".  .  .  wo  be  unto  him  that  is  at  ease 
in  Zion! 

'Wo  be  unto  him  that  crieth:  All  is 
well!"  (2  Nephi  28:24-25.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

God  bless  the  land  of  Zion,  North  and 
South  America,  and  all  the  world,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Ezra 
Taft  Benson  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  also  Secretary  of  Agriculture  in 
the  Cabinet  of  the  United  States.  We 
shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Antoine  R. 
Ivins  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Howard 
W.  Hunter. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  had  given  up 
the  expectancy  of  having  this  privilege 
of  bearing  my  testimony  to  you  this 
afternoon,  and  I  haven't  the  courage  to 
take  time  to  make  an  extended  speech 
or  any  extensive  remarks.  I  trust  that 
the  Spirit  of  God  may  help  me  to  bear 
a  true  testimony  to  the  truth  of  the 
gospel,  and  when  I  say  testimony,  which 
seems  to  be  the  spirit  of  this  conference, 
I  mean  that  I  testify  that  Jesus  Christ  is 
the  Son  of  God;  that  he  and  the  Father 
appeared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith; 
that  through  the  visitation  of  heavenly 
beings  and  the  inspiration  that  came 
from  God,  a  real  and  true  interpretation 
of  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation  was  re- 
turned to  the  earth;  that  through  heav- 
enly beings  there  came  back  to  the  earth 
the  priesthood  which  authorized  men  to 
perform  the  functions  that  are  essential 
to  the  exaltation  of  people  in  the  king- 
dom of  God;  and  that  to  regulate  the 
use  of  that  priesthood  the  Church  was 
set  up  according  to  the  will  of  God  and 
the  pattern  which  Jesus  Christ  gave  us 
when  he  ministered  in  the  earth. 

That  I  honestly  and  sincerely  believe 
to  be  true,  and  I  feel  that  the  fact  of  its 
truth  has  been  revealed  to  me  by  the 
Spirit  of  God.  The  spirit  of  this  con- 
ference has  been  testimony.  Christ  told 
Peter  that  upon  the  revealed  testimony 
that  He  is  the  Son  of  God,  he  had  built 
his  Church,  and  the  gates  of  hell  could 
not  prevail  against  it. 

I  honestly  believe,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  if  we  can  properly  instil  into 


our  own  hearts  and  the  hearts  of  our 
children  this  testimony  to  the  degree 
that  it  will  impel  them  to  live  true  to 
the  principles  of  the  gospel,  to  the  cove- 
nants that  they  have  made  in  the  waters 
of  baptism  and  in  the  temples  of  God, 
and  to  the  promises  that  are  implied, 
if  not  actually  made,  when  one  receives 
the  priesthood,  that  the  Church  will 
never  be  in  danger. 

The  power  of  the  Church  is  in  the 
administration  of  the  priesthood  offices, 
of  course,  and  in  the  faith  that  the 
people  have.  I  believe  that  testimony 
comes  from  faith  and  prayer  and  right- 
eous living,  and  that  the  best  way  to 
get  it  is  to  live  true  to  the  teachings  of 
the  gospel,  to  pray  about  it,  and  to  exer- 
cise our  faith  to  that  end.  And  then  I 
believe  further  that  if  we  can  get  that 
testimony  truly  in  our  hearts,  that  all 
men  who  accept  ordination  into  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood  or  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  for  that  matter,  will  exert 
every  possible  power  within  them  to 
magnify  that  calling.  There  is  not  the 
least  doubt  in  my  mind  that  any  man 
who  holds  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood, 
who  lives  to  magnify  that  calling,  should 
never  yield  to  any  of  the  temptations  of 
his  satanic  majesty. 

I  feel  that  whenever  men  give  way  to 
those  temptations,  it  is  an  indication  of 
really  either  a  weak  testimony  or  a  lack 
of  testimony  of  these  wonderful  things. 
We  who  hold  the  priesthood  have  the 
problem  of  planting  that  testimony  in 
the  hearts  of  others.    We  do  it  by  the 


ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 


107 


way  we  live  and  by  what  we  teach. 

I  heard  a  testimony  just  a  week  ago 
from  a  very  fine  man  who  has  recently 
come  into  the  Church.  He  was  first 
impressed  by  the  life  of  certain  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  whom  he  met.  He 
became  interested  and  investigated.  He 
had  a  son  fourteen  years  of  age  who 
likewise  was  interested  in  the  mission- 
aries and  attended  their  meetings  in  the 
branch.  The  son  came  home  one  day 
and  to  the  utter  surprise  of  his  father 
said,  "Father,  I  have  a  testimony,"  and 
this  man  said,  "Now  in  our  church 
nobody  ever  testifies." 

It  is  in  Christianity  a  forgotten  art 
practically,  but  with  us  it  is  the  most 
essential  thing  of  our  whole  program, 
brothers  and  sisters,  that  we  should  gain 
that  testimony;  that  we  should  live  true 
to  it,  and  that  when  we  accept  re- 
sponsibility in  the  priesthood  we  should 
magnify  it. 

Now  we  who  keep  records  know  that 
there  is  a  large  percentage  of  men  who 
have  been  ordained  to  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  who  are  not  magnifying  their 
callings.  We  have  a  program,  brothers 
and  sisters,  that  we  have  been  advocating 
for  sometime,  to  which  reference  was 
made  today,  to  try  to  interest  those 
people  and  bring  them  to  pray  and  study 
that  they  may  come  to  understand  these 
things  and  then  go  forth  to  reclaim 
their  privileges  as  members  of  the  Mel- 
chizedek Priesthood. 

Of  course  there  is  plenty  of  incentive 
for  it.  To  those  of  you  who  were  here 
last  night  I  recommend  again  the  pas- 
sages in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 


that  Brother  Romney  read  to  you,  that 
he  who  receives  these  callings  in  the 
priesthood  and  magnifies  them  fully  can 
eventually  attain  to  the  powers  of  God. 
That  is  the  incentive,  brothers  and  sis- 
ters. When  we  go  to  these  people,  we 
must  go  in  love  and  kindness,  helpful 
as  we  can  in  the  hope  that  they  will 
listen  to  us. 

I  pray  that  God  will  bless  us  that 
we  may  understand  individually  our 
own  problems,  understand  that  the 
privileges  of  membership  in  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  are  individual  privileges, 
and  that  no  man  should  let  the  conduct 
of  another  man  prevent  his  using  these 
privileges  to  his  own  exaltation.  If 
people  who  come  into  the  Church  could 
come  understanding  that  it  is  an  indi- 
vidual problem  pure  and  simple  with 
them,  then  these  other  things  that  they 
observe  at  times  would  have  no  effect 
upon  their  lives. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  the 
problem  not  only  of  our  own  people, 
but  also  of  assimilating  and  absorbing 
and  helping  the  many  people  who  are 
being  baptized  into  the  Church.  May 
God  help  us  to  do  all  these  things,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our 
Redeemer.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
We  will  now  hear  Elder  Howard  W. 
Hunter  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Alma 
Sonne. 


ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


In  the  nineteenth  chapter  of  John  we 
read  the  story  of  an  influential  man  who 
was  secretly  a  disciple  of  Christ,  but 
because  of  fear,  was  not  openly  a  dis- 
ciple. Those  who  declared  themselves 
as  followers  of  Christ  were  not  popular 
in  Jerusalem  during  this  period  of  con- 
troversy. Joseph  of  Arimathea  was  se- 
cretly a  disciple,  but  his  fear  of  what 
others  might  think  or  do  prevented  him 
from  declaring  his  allegiance  until  after 
the  crucifixion  of  the  Master. 


Joseph  of  Arimathea  was  a  man  of 
wealth  and  station  in  Jerusalem.  We 
can  assume  that  he  had  a  wide  acquaint- 
ance and  was  a  man  of  influence.  He 
was  a  member  of  the  Sanhedrin,  the 
assembly  of  seventy-one  men  constitut- 
ing the  supreme  council  of  the  aris- 
tocracy which  administered  the  Jewish 
law.  It  was  because  of  his  membership 
in  this  tribunal  that  he  was  referred 
to  as  "counsellor."  Mark  refers  to  him 
as  "...  an  honourable  counsellor,  which 


108 

Sunday,  October  9 

also  waited  for  the  kingdom  of  God, . . ." 
(Mark  15:43.)  He  waited  in  the  back- 
ground, doing  nothing  to  support  or 
sustain  the  Master.  No  doubt  he  had 
heard  Jesus  and  listened  to  his  teachings, 
for  we  are  told  that  he  was  a  secret 
disciple  of  the  Savior. 

When  the  council  was  called  into 
session  early  in  the  morning,  following 
the  Last  Supper  and  the  betrayal,  Joseph 
either  absented  himself  from  the  council 
or  refused  to  vote.  He  took  no  part  in  the 
proceedings,  hoping  no  doubt  to  save 
his  own  conscience.  He  would  not  lift 
a  finger  to  condemn  the  Savior,  nor 
would  he  defend  him  openly. 

There  are  many  like  Joseph  of  Ari- 
mathea,  who  do  not  declare  loyalty  to 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  but  merely  "wait 
for  the  kingdom."  Like  Joseph  they  are 
secret  followers  of  Jesus  and  halfhearted, 
lukewarm  Christians.  Secret  disciples  of 
Christ  are  almost  in  the  same  category 
as  those  who  are  antagonistic.  They  are 
much  the  same  as  persons  among  us 
today  who  have  only  a  halfhearted  in- 
terest in  our  great  democratic  way  of 
life  and  are  as  dangerous  to  the  future 
freedom  of  the  world  as  those  who  are 
openly  avowed  to  destroy  democracy. 

We  would  have  greater  respect  for 
Joseph,  if  he  had  taken  a  strong  position 
in  the  council  and  defended  Jesus.  We 
cannot  assume  that  this  would  have 
changed  the  judgment  or  saved  him 
from  the  cross,  because  he  stated  at  the 
supper  that  he  would  shortly  leave  them. 
Nevertheless,  we  have  respect  for  one 
who  stands  upon  moral  convictions  and 
upholds  the  right. 

We  have  more  respect  for  one  who 
honestly  doubts  than  for  one  who  fears 
to  declare  loyalty.  Thomas  doubted.  He 
traveled  the  path  from  faith  through  the 
valley  of  doubt  to  new  heights  of  faith. 
This  is  the  course  that  many  follow  in 
life.  As  children  we  accepted  as  fact 
the  things  which  were  told  to  us  by  our 
parents  or  our  teachers  because  of  the 
confidence  that  we  had  in  them.  A 
little  boy  will  jump  from  a  high  place 
without  fear  if  his  father  tells  him  that 
he  will  catch  him.  The  little  fellow  has 
faith  that  his  father  will  not  let  him 
fall.  As  children  grow  older,  they  com- 
mence to  think  for  themselves,  to  ques- 
tion and  have  doubts  about  those  things 
which  are  not  subject  to  tangible  proof. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

I  have  sympathy  for  young  men  and 
young  women  when  honest  doubts  enter 
their  minds  and  they  engage  in  the  great 
conflict  of  resolving  doubts.  These 
doubts  can  be  resolved,  if  they  have  an 
honest  desire  to  know  the  truth,  by 
exercising  moral,  spiritual,  and  mental 
effort.  They  will  emerge  from  the  con- 
flict into  a  firmer,  stronger,  larger  faith 
because  of  the  struggle.  They  have  gone 
from  a  simple,  trusting  faith,  through 
doubt  and  conflict,  into  a  solid  substan- 
tial faith  which  ripens  into  testimony. 
The  Bible  is  replete  with  such  examples. 
We  think  of  Abraham  in  the  Old  Testa- 
ment and  Thomas  in  Christ's  time. 

Now  to  return  to  Joseph  of  Arima- 
thea,  the  record  does  not  indicate  to  us 
that  he  doubted  as  did  Thomas.  We 
are  told  he  was  "...  a  disciple  of  Jesus, 
but  secretly  for  fear.  .  .  ."  (John  19:38.) 
He  believed  secretly  because  he  was 
afraid  of  public  opinion.  Among  our 
own  people,  in  our  communities,  in  our 
nation  and  throughout  the  world,  there 
are  secret  followers  of  Jesus  and  half- 
hearted Christians — onlookers  who  have 
a  noncommittal  attitude.  Why  is  it  that 
so  many  will  not  commit  themselves? 

Joseph  of  Arimathea  was  only  a  secret 
disciple  because  of  what  others  would 
think  of  him.  He  would  not  risk  his 
social  position  nor  the  respect  of  his  as- 
sociates. It  is  fear  that  causes  men  to 
be  noncommittal.  They  are  afraid  to 
declare  their  loyalty  and  assume  active 
responsibility.  The  easy  way  is  to  let 
someone  else  be  the  leader  and  assume 
the  responsibility.  The  world  needs  men 
who  are  willing  to  step  forward  and  de- 
clare themselves.  The  world  needs  men 
who  will  lift  the  load  of  responsibility 
to  their  shoulders  and  carry  it  high  un- 
der the  banner  of  Jesus  Christ — men 
who  are  willing  to  defend  the  right 
openly.  I  am  always  impressed  by  the 
missionaries  of  this  Church.  They  are 
willing  to  accept  the  call  to  serve  two 
years  or  more  at  their  own  expense  and 
give  freely  of  their  time  without  mone- 
tary compensation,  to  cry  repentance 
and  declare  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ. 
This  is  the  type  of  devotion  to  principle 
that  is  needed  in  the  world  today. 

How  can  men  of  conscience  ignore  the 
teachings  of  the  Master  in  their  daily 
affairs,  in  business,  or  in  government? 
We  stand  by  and  wink  at  many  things 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


109 


because  we  fear  to  do  anything  about 
them.  We  may  be  against  crime  or  com- 
munism, but  what  do  we  do  about  it? 
We  may  be  against  corruption  in  govern- 
ment or  against  juvenile  delinquency, 
but  what  do  we  do  about  it?  We  may 
have  a  belief  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  but  what  are  we  doing  about  it? 
We  need  to  push  fear  into  the  back- 
ground and  come  forward  with  a  defi- 
nite, positive  declaration,  and  assume 
responsibility. 

The  pathway  to  exaltation  is  well  de- 
fined. We  are  told  to  have  faith — faith 
in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  repent  of 
those  things  which  are  not  according  to 
his  teachings.  After  this  change  of  men- 
tal attitude,  and  with  firm  resolution, 
we  must  declare  ourselves  by  going  into 
the  waters  of  baptism,  thereby  making 
a  covenant  with  the  Lord  to  keep  his 
commandments.  Can  we  thereafter  be 
a  secret  disciple?  Can  we  stand  on  the 
sidelines  and  merely  observe?  This  is  a 
day  for  action.  This  is  the  time  for  de- 
cision, not  tomorrow,  not  next  week. 
This  is  the  time  to  make  our  covenant 
with  the  Lord.  Now  is  the  time  for 
those  who  have  been  noncommittal  or 
who  have  had  a  halfhearted  interest  to 
come  out  boldly  and  declare  belief  in 
Christ  and  be  willing  to  demonstrate 
faith  by  works. 

We  acquire  more  regard  for  Joseph  of 
Arimathea  as  we  continue  to  read  Al- 
though he  was  "a  disciple  of  Jesus,  but 
secretly  for  fear  .  .  ."  and  although  he 
was  one  who  "waited  for  the  kingdom 
of  God,"  yet  he  was  finally  moved  to 
action.  The  account  continues: 

"He  went  to  Pilate,  and  begged  the 
body  of  Jesus.  Then  Pilate  commanded 
the  body  to  be  delivered. 

"And  when  Joseph  had  taken  the 


body,  he  wrapped  it  in  a  clean  linen 
cloth, 

"And  laid  it  in  his  own  new  tomb, 
which  he  had  hewn  out  in  the  rock: 
and  he  rolled  a  great  stone  to  the  door 
of  the  sepulchre,  and  departed."  (Matt. 
27:58-60.) 

I  wonder  if  there  was  not  a  tear  in 
Joseph's  eye  as  he  placed  the  body  of 
Jesus  in  the  tomb.  Surely  he  thought  of 
the  events  which  had  taken  place  earlier 
on  that  day,  when  as  a  member  of  the 
Council  he  had  failed  to  come  to  the 
defense  of  the  Master.  Should  we  not 
search  our  own  souls  and  inquire  of 
ourselves  if  we  are  loyal?  Are  we,  too, 
only  secret  disciples  of  Christ? 

This  same  Jesus  who  died  on  the  cross 
and  whose  body  was  placed  in  the  tomb 
came  forth  on  the  third  day  thereafter. 
He  was  resurrected  and  lives  today — the 
Savior  of  the  world. 

This  is  my  witness.  He  stands  before 
us  with  arms  outstretched  to  our  vision, 
and  those  same  words  spoken  to  the 
disciples  in  Jerusalem  should  ring  in  our 
ears: 

"If  any  man  will  come  after  me,  let 
him  deny  himself,  and  take  up  his  cross, 
and  follow  me. 

"For  whosoever  will  save  his  life  shall 
lose  it:  and  whosoever  will  lose  his  life  for 
my  sake  shall  find  it."  (Ibid.,  16:24-25.) 

May  we  be  his  disciples  openly,  fear- 
lessly, and  with  devotion,  I  humbly  pray 
in  his  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened, 
is  Elder  Howard  W.  Hunter  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve.  Elder  Alma 
Sonne,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will  be 
our  next  speaker. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  believe  I 
speak  for  the  Assistants  to  the  Quorum 
of  the  Twelve  when  I  express  my  good- 
will and  my  good  feelings  towards  the 
three  men  who  have  been  called  to 
associate  with  us  in  our  work.  I  know 
these  men  personally.  I  know  they  are 
good  men.  I  know  they  are  capable, 
and  I  know,  too,  their  willingness  to 


lay  upon  the  altar  any  worldly  posses- 
sions they  have  in  order  to  serve  the 
Lord  in  spirit  and  in  truth. 

I  believe  in  the  future  of  the  Church. 
I  believe  it  has  a  great  destiny.  I  believe 
in  its  moral  standards.  I  believe  its  pro- 
gram is  effective  and  the  Church  will 
grow  and  develop  as  the  missionary  ef- 
fort increases  in  the  world.  I  believe 


110  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  9 

faith  in  God  is  the  very  foundation  of 
right  living,  and  I  believe  in  the  mis- 
sionary system  of  the  Church,  which  has 
proved  so  successful  in  recent  years,  and 
I  believe  the  work  will  continue  to  go 
forward. 

I  also  believe  that  many  of  the  old 
barriers  and  obstacles  are  crumbling  and 
giving  way,  and  that  we  have  a  better 
opportunity  than  we  have  ever  had  to 
proclaim  the  gospel  truths.  I  believe 
there  are  people  in  the  world  who  are 
very  anxious  to  hear  the  gospel  message 
as  it  is  proclaimed  by  humble  men  and 
women  sent  out  from  the  headquarters 
of  the  Church  to  bear  their  testimonies. 

I  want  to  read  a  word  from  President 
Brigham  Young.  He  said: 

"The  Lord  will  never  suffer  this  people 
to  dwindle  down,  and  be  hid  up  in  a 
corner;  it  cannot  be;  neither  does  he 
want  any  person  to  help  them  but  him- 
self." (Discourses  of  Brigham  Young,  p. 
676.) 

In  other  words,  God  is  directing  his 
work.  It  is  not  man-made,  neither  is  it 
the  creation  of  a  human  mind.  The 
pioneer  prophet  Brigham  Young  was 
race  to  face  with  a  gigantic  task  when 
he  undertook  to  colonize  the  West  and 
to  keep  alive  the  missionary  movement. 
It  was  not  an  easy  thing  to  set  up  a 
commonwealth  and  to  transform  a  des- 
ert into  cities,  towns,  and  villages,  and 
to  provide  homes,  schools,  and  churches. 
It  required  more  than  ordinary  skill  to 
build  up  faith  and  hope  and  to  develop 
a  solid  citizenship  out  of  a  people  who 
came  from  many  parts  of  the  world. 

Brigham  Young  could  not  have  done 
it  without  God's  help.  He  knew  this, 
and  never  once  did  he  claim  the  credit 
for  this  achievement.  When  he  died  in 
1877,  his  enemies  saw  the  end  of  Mor- 
monism.  There  was  no  one,  they  argued, 
to  take  his  place.  He  had  presided  over 
the  Church  for  thirty  years.  Those  who 
had  stood  by  him  in  the  early  emergen- 
cies and  difficulties  had  passed  on. 
Willard  Richards  had  died  in  1854. 
Heber  C.  Kimball,  the  great  prophet, 
and  a  stalwart,  who  had  stood  by  his 
side  in  all  the  days  of  colonization  and 
settlement,  had  died  in  1868.  Parley  P. 
Pratt  had  met  an  untimely  death  in 
1857.  George  A.  Smith,  who  was  re- 
garded as  a  great  leader  of  courage  and 
wisdom,  had  died  in  1875.  And  many 


Third  Day 

others  who  stood  valiantly  by  his  side 
during  the  exodus  and  the  colonization 
effort,  also  had  passed  on.  Mormonism 
could  not  survive,  at  least  that  was  the 
verdict  of  those  who  did  not  and  could 
not  understand.  There  was  no  leader, 
they  claimed,  to  take  his  place.  They 
saw  the  disruption  and  disorganization 
of  the  Church,  and  many  would  repudi- 
ate their  allegiance  and  follow  a  divided 
leadership. 

The  enemies  predicted  the  same  thing 
when  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  his  broth- 
er Hyrum  Smith  were  murdered.  The 
great  enterprise  launched  by  them,  they 
thought,  would  burst  like  a  bubble,  but 
God  will  always  have  in  reserve  some- 
one to  take  the  place  of  him  who  is 
gone.  Brethren  and  sisters,  God's  work 
will  triumph  in  the  earth. 

Speaking  of  pioneer  days,  I  should 
like  to  read  a  statement  from  the  journal 
of  Brother  Richard  Ballantyne,  the  or- 
ganizer of  the  first  Sunday  School  in  the 
Rocky  Mountains.  Brother  Ballantyne 
wrote  this  just  five  years  before  his  death. 
Speaking  of  pioneering  days,  he  said: 

"But  those  times  are  now  past,  and  I 
believe  never  to  return.  A  brighter  day 
is  now  awaiting,  but  it  will  have  its 
dangers. 

"As  wealth  flows  into  the  hands  of  the 
Church,  and  with  its  learning  and  re- 
finement, pride  is  apt  to  enter  the  hearts 
of  the  children  of  Zion,  as  it  entered 
into  the  hearts  of  the  Nephites. 

"God  has  signified  by  his  servant  that 
the  day  to  favor  Zion  has  come.  The 
powers  of  the  heavens  are  to  be  exerted 
in  a  way  they  never  were  before.  The 
time  for  the  uplifting  of  Zion  has  come. 
Kings  and  rulers  will  favor  her.  Her 
beauty  and  righteousness  are  beginning 
to  appear  in  the  world.  She  will  not  be 
looked  upon  as  she  has  been  in  the  past. 
The  shadows  are  passing  away,  and  the 
light  is  breaking  in  upon  us." 

I  bear  my  testimony  that  God's  work 
will  stand,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  his 
divine  Prophet  appointed  to  usher  in 
the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times. 
I  bear  testimony  that  his  successors  in 
the  high  office  were  all  men  of  God, 
and  that  they  were  full  of  faith  and 
prophecy.  I  bear  testimony  that  the 
authority  of  the  Holy  Priesthood  is 
operating  in  the  Church  as  it  has  al- 
ways done  and  that  it  will  continue  to 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


111 


do  so  until  every  knee  shall  bend  and 
every  tongue  confess  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  and  that 
the  Latter-day  Saints  comprise  his 
Church  and  kingdom  about  which  the 
ancient  prophets  spoke;  and  that  the 
Church  will  continue  to  grow  and  ex- 
tend itself,  even  beyond  our  imagina- 
tions, for  it  will  surely  reach  to  the 
uttermost  parts  of  the  earth. 

I  pray  that  his  Spirit  may  continue 
with  us,  and  that  we  may  serve  him 
always  with  a  singleness  of  purpose,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  addressed  us.  The 


Choir  and  Congregation  will  now  sing, 
"Redeemer  of  Israel."  Brother  Jay 
Welch,  Assistant  Conductor,  will  guide 
us.  After  the  singing,  Elder  Richard  L. 
Evans  will  speak  to  us. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congre- 
gation joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Re- 
deemer of  Israel,"  Elder  Jay  Welch, 
Assistant  Tabernacle  Choir  Director, 
conducting. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  will  now  ad- 
dress us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
John  Longden. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


At  this  point  of  the  conference  many 
will  understand  why  I  remember  a 
sentence  recently  read — a  sentence  which 
said  that  you  can  always  use  more 
words  to  say  what  has  already  been  said. 
I  shall  try  not  to  make  the  words  too 
many,  but  should  like  to  tie  back  to 
two  or  three  points  of  the  conference, 
first,  to  President  McKay's  opening  ad- 
dress, of  the  love  of  God  and  the  love 
of  man,  and  of  the  peace  that  can  come 
only  through  righteousness  and  the  keep- 
ing of  the  commandments. 

Secondly,  from  the  reports  given  from 
this  pulpit  and  others  that  have  come  in 
connection  with  the  conference  it  is  very 
evident  that  the  Church  in  the  stakes 
and  in  the  missions  is  on  the  move, 
worldwide.  Now  it  takes  service,  and  it 
takes  means  to  keep  things  on  the  move. 
I  have  read  somewhere  that  service  is 
the  rent  we  pay  for  the  space  we  occupy 
on  earth.  Not  only  the  service,  but  the 
means  are  necessary.  Nothing  does  it- 
self. Someone  has  to  do  everything  that 
is  done. 

As  to  tithing,  it  requires  that,  too,  not 
only  as  a  material  matter,  but  as  a  spirit- 
ual matter  also.  All  we  have  the  Lord 
God  has  given  us,  and  I  consider  tithing 
to  be  an  opportunity  to  express  apprecia- 
tion for  what  the  Lord  God  has  given. 
Neither  the  giving  of  service  nor  of  sub- 
stance is  ever — or  seldom — completely 
convenient  for  any  of  us.    There  was 


a  kind  of  tongue-in-cheek  British 
economist  lecturing  here  some  months 
ago — and  may  be  still  in  the  United 
States — who  propounded  what  he  called 
"Parkinson's  Second  Law,"  as  I  recall, 
which  said  that  "expenditures  always 
rise  to  meet  income."  We  have  dis- 
covered this  to  be  true. 

The  Lord  God  has  said  to  us  ".  .  .  all 
things  unto  me  are  spiritual,  and  not 
at  any  time  have  I  given  unto  you  a  law 
which  was  temporal;  .  .  ."  (D&C  29:34.) 
I  would  plead  with  all  of  us,  as  the  work 
moves  forward  gloriously,  that  we  should 
not  hinder  it  by  withholding  our  service 
or  our  substance. 

Now,  third,  I  should  like  to  tie  back 
to  what  I  consider  a  most  remarkable 
meeting  last  evening,  which  I  wish 
everyone  had  heard,  as  President  McKay 
and  Brother  Moyle  and  Brother  Romney 
and  Brother  Petersen  spoke.  I  should 
like  to  make  a  plea  in  keeping  with 
some  of  what  was  there  said  to  the  youth, 
and  to  all  of  us,  that  we  do  not  suc- 
cumb to  uncertainty.  There  are  prob- 
lems; there  are  uncertainties;  but  always 
we  need  to  pursue  solid  purposes. 

The  Church  is  going  forward,  world- 
wide— in  the  building  of  buildings,  in 
missionary  endeavor,  and  in  all  else — 
and  in  our  private  and  personal  lives, 
young  and  old,  we  must  also  individual- 
ly have  the  faith  to  go  forward.  It  takes 
courage;  it  takes  prayer  and  planning 


112 

Sunday,  October  9 

and  work  and  faith;  but  there  are 
glorious  eternal  opportunities;  and  we 
must  not  wait  in  uncertainty  or  suc- 
cumb to  it.  The  theories  and  the  facts 
will  all  ultimately  be  reconciled;  the 
questions  will  all  ultimately  be  an- 
swered; the  problems  will  all  ultimately 
be  resolved;  and  the  promises  will  all 
be  fulfilled,  and  we  must  plan  and 
prayerfully  pursue  our  plans  and  go 
ahead  with  our  lives  on  solid  and  firm 
foundations,  with  faith,  with  cleanli- 
ness of  conduct,  with  balanced  living, 
with  devotion,  with  the  keeping  of  the 
commandments. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

I  think  it  was  Ruskin  who  said,  "There 
is  no  wealth  but  life."  I  pray  God  that 
we  may  use  that  wealth  which  is  life, 
and  not  waste  it  away,  and  pursue 
earnestly  the  opportunities  of  time,  into 
the  limitless  promises  and  possibilities 
of  eternity,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve,  has  just  addressed  us. 
We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  John 
Longden,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


While  I  was  on  my  mission,  we  had  a 
great  mission  president,  Samuel  O.  Ben- 
nion,  who  made  us  conscious  of  time. 
He  called  several  conferences  of  two 
districts  of  missionaries  into  the  city  of 
Enoch — that  is  in  Texas,  by  the  way — 
and  he  would  give  each  of  us  an  oppor- 
tunity to  speak.  As  we  approached  the 
pulpit,  he  would  say  to  each  one,  "Take 
five  minutes  and  preach  the  gospel." 
From  this  and  other  training  I  have 
been  made  conscious  of  time,  and  I  am 
grateful  for  it.  I  know  there  are  others 
today  who  have  not  had  this  privilege, 
and  I  should  like  to  share  some  of  my 
time  with  them. 

May  I  give  you  one  or  two  thoughts 
as  I  bear  my  testimony  of  the  divinity 
of  this  marvelous  work? 

Recently  there  have  been  many  edi- 
torials in  newspapers,  magazines,  radio 
and  TV  discussions,  also  private  conver- 
sations, in  which  I  have  noticed  one 
particular  word  being  used  many  times. 
That  word  is  "survival."  Survival!  Sur- 
vival from  what?  an  atomic  bomb? 
survival  from  the  "C"  or  "H"  bomb? 
survival  from  a  Marx,  Hitler,  Mussolini, 
or  a  Khrushchev,  or  their  satanic  teach- 
ings and  practices — or  another  kind  of 
survival? 

The  United  States  military  services 
are  most  anxious  to  assist  their  person- 
nel to  survive,  and  tests  to  prolong  mor- 
tal life  are  being  made  continually  with 
various  kinds  of  so-called  survival  kits. 
Last  July  I  was  interested  in  the  story 


told  by  a  young  man  in  our  city  who 
had  made  such  a  test  with  a  survival 
kit  measuring  9%  inches  by  6  inches  by 
y/z  inches.  The  test  was  made  in  the 
rough  Wind  River  range  country  of 
Wyoming.  He  had  been  flown  into  this 
area  by  plane  and  then  dropped  by 
parachute  with  the  survival  kit  men- 
tioned. Here  are  some  of  the  items  it 
contained:  a  full  fifteen-day  supply  of 
food,  first-aid  kit,  sewing  kit,  fire  start- 
ing kit,  fishing  items,  knife  and  stone; 
a  twenty-foot  line  of  nylon  cord,  and  a 
book  teaching  its  reader  how  to  survive. 
Much  research  had  been  done  on  all 
items  contained  in  the  kit.  During  the 
test  no  one  heard  from  this  young  man 
for  two  weeks.  I  listened  to  his  story 
in  fast  and  testimony  meeting  and  after- 
wards in  private.  He  said,  most  impor- 
tant of  all  in  the  time  he  had  spent  in 
solitude  in  the  great  outdoors  was  that 
he  had  come  to  understand  and  appre- 
ciate more  than  ever  the  blessings  of  the 
gospel;  to  be  alone  under  the  stars  at 
night,  to  see  the  sunshine  of  the  day, 
the  beauty  of  nature  at  its  best,  the 
natural  resources  provided  by  God  our 
Heavenly  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ.  There  had  come  into  his  heart 
and  soul  that  testimony  more  important 
and  precious  than  all  else,  the  need  of 
a  spiritual  survival. 

We  may  survive  physically  and  ma- 
terially but  unless  we  survive  spiritually 
these  things  avail  nothing. 

I  believe  this  has  been  the  theme  of 


ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 


113 


this  conference  from  the  stirring,  open- 
ing address  of  President  McKay  to  the 
splendid  remarks  of  Brother  Richard  L. 
Evans,  just  preceding  me.  I  have  caught 
this  spirit  through  the  glorious  sessions 
of  this  conference,  receiving  reassurance 
again  that  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  not  the  church  of  any  man — a 
Church  which  offers  to  all  men  a  spir- 
itual survival,  the  opportunity  to  subdue 
the  earth  and  overcome  all  things  for- 
eign to  enjoying  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 
The  survival  kit  for  spiritual  survival  is 
equally  as  small  as  the  one  used  for 
physical  survival;  let  me  suggest  its  size: 
just  four  books,  the  Bible,  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  Pearl 
of  Great  Price — the  small  editions  even 
smaller  than  9%  inches  by  6  inches  by 
3Y2  inches,  but  what  power  they  con- 
tain 1 

Just  before  the  commencement  of  this 
afternoon's  meeting  I  met  several  breth- 
ren from  Hawaii,  one  of  whom  I  had 
not  seen  for  five  and  a  half  years  at 
which  time  I  toured  the  Hawaiian 
Mission,  Brother  William  (Bill)  Sproat, 
a  faithful  dedicated  Latter-day  Saint, 
one  who  truly  believes  in  spiritual  sur- 
vival. I  shall  always  remember  being  in 
your  home  away  up  there  on  the  peak, 
the  highline  that  you  ride  to  do  your 
work,  the  hospitality  that  you  extended 
to  us,  the  depth  of  your  testimony,  the 
sincerity  of  your  labors  to  build  the 
kingdom  of  God,  and  what  you  said  to 
me  today  will  always  live  in  my  mem- 


ory: "Oh,  this  is  a  dream  I  never  realized 
would  be  fulfilled  to  be  here  in  Salt 
Lake  City  attending  a  general  confer- 
ence." Brother  Sproat,  one  of  the  many 
thousand  wonderful,  dedicated  Latter- 
day  Saints  who  live  by  the  precepts  of 
his  spiritual  survival  kit! 

Some  of  us  who  live  so  close  to  the 
pattern  might  not  appreciate  the  design. 
I  saw  the  beautiful  design  of  spiritual 
survival  at  work  today  as  I  had  the 
opportunity  of  embracing  you,  Brother 
Bill,  and  others  from  those  glorious 
islands  of  the  Pacific. 

God  bless  us  that  we  may  survive 
spiritually;  that  we  may  appreciate  the 
necessity  of  keeping  our  survival  kits 
complete,  tested,  and  in  order  constant- 
ly, which  should  include  the  Lord's 
word  on  how  to  survive  contained  in 
the  four  standard  works  of  the  Church, 
for  therein  are  embodied  the  way,  the 
truth,  and  the  light  of  which  President 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  spoke  this  morning. 

God  help  us  so  to  do,  I  humbly  pray 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
our  Savior.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  We  shall 
now  hear  from  Elder  EIRay  L.  Christian- 
sen, also  Assistant  to  the  Twelve.  You 
need  not  be  in  such  a  hurry,  because  we 
cannot  get  in  all  of  them  anyhow. 


ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  should  like  to  place  what  I  had 
thought  to  say  in  cold  storage,  even 
though  by  the  time  I  take  it  out  it  will 
be  too  cold  to  use,  and  just  express  my 
gratitude  and  appreciation  for  some 
things. 

I  like  the  song,  "Now,  Let  Us  Rejoice." 
In  my  opinion  we  do  not  rejoice  enough 
in  this  Church.  We  have  so  much 
for  which  to  be  grateful  that  we  could 
rejoice  day  and  night  and  still  not  be 
sufficiently  grateful  in  our  expressions. 
I  am  so  thankful  for  what  has  been 
taught  us  in  this  great  conference  today 
and  yesterday  and  the  day  before.  I 


think  it  has  been  outstanding.  I  thought 
as  I  sat  here  how  true  it  is  that  we 
cannot  be  saved  in  ignorance  of  God,  in 
ignorance  of  our  relationship  to  God — 
and  I  thought  that  as  members  of  this 
Church  we  need  not  be  in  ignorance,  so 
far  as  knowledge  of  our  relationship  to 
God  is  concerned,  for  surely  we  are 
well  taught. 

There  is  no  prize  so  great  and  so  val- 
uable as  the  truth.  In  the  Church  we 
are  taught  the  truth.  We  are  taught 
the  proper  way  to  live — the  correct,  the 
right,  the  happy  way  to  live.  We  could 
search  the  world  over,  and  we  could  find 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


114 

Sunday,  October  9 

no  better  way  to  live  than  the  right  way, 
and  of  course  the  Lord's  way  is  the 
right  way. 

We  are  taught  to  know  the  right  in 
all  things — how  to  repent,  how  to  change 
our  ways.  We  are  taught  whom  and 
how  to  serve.  We  are  taught  the  proper 
way  to  enter  into  the  marriage  cove- 
nant. In  fact,  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
is  designed  to  direct  us  safely  through 
this  probationary  period,  that  we  "may 
dwell  ...  in  a  state  of  never-ending 
happiness"  (Mosiah  2:41)  with  those 
we  love.  I  like  that  statement  from  the 
Book  of  Mormon. 

We  are  taught  that  in  the  true  sense 
of  the  word,  God  is  our  Father;  that  we 
are  his  sons  and  his  daughters,  and  that 
he  loves  us,  and  that  he  is  concerned 
about  our  welfare  and  our  fortunes  and 
our  misfortunes.  He  is  desirous  that  when 
this  earth  mission  is  completed  that 
each  of  us  comes  home  with  an  honor- 
able release  from  it  to  dwell  with  him 
in  a  state  of  happiness  and  usefulness. 

I  am  not  so  interested  in  heaven  unless 
I  may  continue  my  association  with 
those  I  love,  and  that  is  all  of  you,  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  but  especially  my 
companion,  my  children,  my  grandchil- 
dren, and  my  progenitors. 

I  am  grateful  to  belong  to  a  Church 
that  teaches  that  the  relationship 
between  the  husband  and  the  wife,  be- 
tween the  father  and  the  mother,  and 
between  the  children  and  the  parents,  is 
intended  to  be  and  is  eternal  in  its 
nature,  if  we  will  just  prepare  for  that 
type  of  relationship.  No  principle,  doc- 
trine, or  practice  is  so  distinctive  or  so 
appealing  to  the  human  reason  as  is  the 
perpetuity  of  the  family.  The  more  I 
think  about  the  gospel  the  more  I  see 


Third  Day 

that  it  revolves  about  the  family  and  its 
eternal  association. 

When  I  went  home  at  noon,  I  picked 
up  a  letter  from  a  boy  written  in  his 
own  handwriting.  He  is  eleven  years 
old. 

(As  you  know,  in  the  temple  the  op- 
portunity is  given  to  place  names  of 
those  who  are  ill  or  afflicted  on  a  roll 
where  they  are  remembered  in  our 
prayers.)    The  letter  reads: 

"Dear  Temple  Worker:  Will  you 
please  enter  my  dad's  name  on  the 
prayer  roll  because  we  want  him  to  be- 
come a  member  of  the  Church  and 
take  Mom  and  us  kids  to  the  temple. 
We  sincerely  hope  and  pray  that  our 
Heavenly  Father  will  help  him  to  keep 
the  Word  of  Wisdom.    His  name  is 

  Sincerely  your  brother, 

 ,  11  years  old." 

That  tells  the  story  of  what  is  in  the 
heart  of  a  boy  who  loves  his  parents, 
who  loves  them  enough  to  desire  their 
association  beyond  this  earth  life.  Some- 
times the  children  must  lead  the  parents 
on  the  way. 

I  am  grateful  that  my  Father  in  heaven 
is  a  patient  Father,  if  he  will  stay  with 
me,  I  am  determined  to  stay  with  him, 
to  stay  with  that  which  is  true  to  the 
end  of  my  days. 

God  bless  us,  brothers  and  sisters, 
that  we  may  rejoice;  that  we  may  receive 
thankfully;  that  we  may  live  worthy  of 
the  bounteous  blessings  that  God  ex- 
tends to  us,  that  we  will  share  with  our 
nonmember  friends  the  truth  as  it  has 
been  revealed;  and  that  we  may  bear 
testimony,  not  alone  in  words,  but  in 
deeds  and  in  action  and  in  doing  good 
to  others,  I  pray  humbly  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


We  must  take  time  before  the  closing 
song  and  benediction  to  express  a  word 
of  appreciation  to  those  who  have  con- 
tributed to  the  success  and  comfort  of 
those  who  have  attended  this  great  con- 
ference. I  wish  first  to  mention  the 
officers  of  this  city  who  have  watched 
with  care  the  number  of  automobiles 
and  their  occupants  and  guided  so  suc- 
cessfully the  hundreds  of  cars  and  taken 
care  of  the  thousands  of  people  who 


have  surrounded  the  block  and  driven 
to  and  fro.  You  have  noticed  them  on 
every  corner — their  courtesy,  their  atten- 
tion, their  protecting  and  guiding  care, 
and  in  your  behalf,  in  behalf  of  the 
General  Authorities  particularly,  I  ex- 
press thanks  to  the  city  government,  and 
to  the  police  who  have  protected  your 
interests  so  carefully  and  so  ably. 

To  the  General  Authorities  we  ex- 
press deep  appreciation  for  the  inspira- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


115 


tional  messages  they  have  given  us. 
We  haven't  had  any  better.  The  Lord 
has  guided  us  from  this  pulpit  during 
our  sessions  in  the  daytime  and  last 
evening. 

We  must  not  be  unmindful  of  the 
reporters  for  their  fair  and  accurate 
reports  through  our  sessions  of  this  con- 
ference. They  have  been  here  daily 
and  given  to  the  people,  to  their  sub- 
scribers, and  to  the  world  a  very  accurate 
report,  not  only  in  word,  but  in  the 
spirit  of  the  messages  given  at  this 
conference. 

The  fire  department  and  the  Red 
Cross  have  been  on  hand  to  render 
assistance  and  service  whenever  or 
wherever  needed.  The  Tabernacle  ushers 
have  rendered  service  in  seating  the 
vast  audiences  of  these  conference  ses- 
sions. We  have  expressed  before,  but 
repeat,  our  appreciation  to  the  radio 
and  television  stations — forty-five  tele- 
vision and  sixty-two  radio  stations 
throughout  our  own  city  and  the  nation 
have  carried  the  proceedings  of  this 
conference.  This  has  been  the  means 
of  permitting  untold  thousands  of  per- 
sons to  hear  the  sermons  given  during 
the  one  hundred  thirtieth  semi-annual 
conference.  They  have  rendered  that 
service  free. 

We  appreciate  especially  those  who 
have  furnished  the  singing  throughout 
the  conference.  I  remind  you  again  of 
the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  from 
the  Ogden  and  northern  Utah  regions, 
who  furnished  the  singing  for  the  Fri- 
day morning  and  Friday  afternoon  ses- 
sions; also  the  University  of  Utah 
Choral  Society  and  the  Bonneville 
Strings — the  singers  from  the  Institute 
of  Religion  and  the  University  of  Utah 
choral  groups,  who  furnished  the  sing- 
ing for  the  Saturday  morning  and  Sat- 
urday afternoon  sessions.  Both  those 
sessions  were  inspirational.  Think  of 
the  hours  that  the  mothers  spend  prac- 
tising, and  think  of  those  young  people, 
of  the  hours  and  hours  that  they  prac- 
tised, and  of  their  willingness  to  come 
and  give  their  talents  so  impressively. 
And  then  last  evening,  the  male  mem- 
bers of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  came  in  a 
body,  dressed  neatly,  in  a  dignified  way, 
and  impressed  the  fifty  thousand  priest- 
hood members  of  the  Church  with  their 
excellent  singing. 


Today  we  are  privileged  to  have  the 
Tabernacle  Choir!  Words  cannot  ex- 
press our  heartfelt  feelings  for  their 
devotion  to  the  cause.  I  met  one  sister 
the  other  day  who  was  a  member  for 
many  years,  but  she  has  retired.  Her 
heart  was  just  overflowing  with  grati- 
tude for  the  opportunity  she  had  had 
in  singing  as  a  member  of  this  choir. 
That  is  the  feeling  that  these  sisters 
and  the  brethren  have  as  they  sit  under 
the  baton  of  this  great  leader  and  his 
assistant,  practising  hour  after  hour, 
day  after  day,  week  after  week,  month 
after  month,  to  become  efficient  in  this 
great  choral  organization.  We  do  not 
say  much  about  it,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, but  we  do  appreciate  what  you 
are  doing! 

Too  many  of  us  are  like  that  Scots- 
man of  whom  I  told  you,  who  had  lost 
his  wife  by  death,  and  his  neighbor 
came  in,  gave  comfort,  and  said  what 
a  good  neighbor  she  had  been,  how 
thoughtful  of  others,  what  a  good  wife 
she  had  been  to  Jock,  who  was  mourn- 
ing. Jock  said,  "Aye,  Tammas,  Janet 
was  a  guid  woman,  a  guid  neighbor  as 
you  say;  she  was  a'  you  say  an'  mair. 
She  was  aye  a  guid,  true  wifey  tae  me, 
and  I  cam'  near  tellin'  her  sae  aince 
or  twice." 

We  express  again  our  appreciation  to 
those  who  sent  these  lovely  flowers  to 
us.  We  want  to  thank  all  those  who 
have  contributed  in  any  way  to  the 
success  and  inspiration  of  this  great 
conference. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  may  I  say 
just  a  word  in  conclusion.  I  have  a 
deep  admiration  in  my  heart  for  Simon 
Peter,  President  of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 
He  said  in  one  of  his  general  epistles: 

".  .  .  to  them  that  have  obtained  like 
precious  faith  with  us  through  the 
righteousness  of  God  and  our  Saviour 
Jesus  Christ: 

"Grace  and  peace  be  multiplied  unto 
you  through  the  knowledge  of  God,  and 
of  Jesus  our  Lord, 

"According  as  his  divine  power  hath 
given  unto  us  all  things  that  pertain 
unto  life  and  godliness,  through  the 
knowledge  of  him  that  hath  called  us 
to  glory  and  virtue: 

"Whereby  are  given  unto  us  exceed- 
ing great  and  precious  promises:  that 
by  these  ye  might  be  partakers  of  the 


116  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  9 

divine  nature,  having  escaped  the  cor- 
ruption that  is  in  the  world  through 
lust."  (2  Peter  1:1-4.) 

That  comes  from  Simon  Peter  who 
was  only  two  and  a  half  years — a  little 
more — in  the  personal  presence  of  his 
Lord.  Before  that  he  did  not  care  much 
for  the  Church,  but  before  this  writing 
he  had  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the 
Sonship  of  Jesus  Christ.  More  than 
that,  he  had  experienced  that  commu- 
nion of  the  Spirit  with  his  Resurrected 
Lord,  and  speaks  here  of  being  a  par- 
taker of  the  divine  nature. 

Hold  to  that  thought  in  the  midst 
of  an  atheistic  world,  mentioned  by 
Brother  Benson  and  others,  while  there 
are  godless  men  who  deny  the  resur- 
rection of  Christ,  who  deny  his  living 
spirit,  and  who  have  taught  for  forty 
years  young  men  and  young  women  to 
deny  him.  That  is  a  terrible  thing  when 
you  think  of  it.  Some  of  us  thought 
twenty  years  ago  that  such  a  godless 
organization  would  break  of  its  own 
weight,  and  now  young  men  who  were 
ten  years  of  age  when  communistic 
ideology  took  possession  of  so  many  are 
now  fifty  years  of  age. 

Peter  says  to  those  who  knew  Christ, 
who  had  partaken  of  his  Spirit: 

"Whereby  are  given  unto  us  exceed- 
ing great  and  precious  promises:  that 
by  these  ye  might  be  partakers  of  the 
divine  nature,  having  escaped  the  cor- 
ruption that  is  in  the  world  through 
lust. 

"And  beside  this,  giving  all  diligence, 
add  to  your  faith  virtue;  and  to  virtue 
knowledge; 

"And  to  knowledge  temperance;  and 
to  temperance  patience;  and  to  patience 
godliness; 

"And  to  godliness  brotherly  kindness; 
and  to  brotherly  kindness  charity. 

"For  if  these  things  [virtues]  be  in 
you,  and  abound,  they  make  you  that 
ye  shall  neither  be  barren  nor  unfruit- 
ful in  the  knowledge  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ."  (Ibid.,  1:4-8.) 

To  know  God  and  his  Beloved  Son 
is  eternal  life. 

I  do  not  know  the  author,  but  there 
comes  to  my  mind  now  these  lines: 
"Admire  the  goodness  of  Almighty  God 
He  riches  gave,  intellectual  strength  to 
few 


Third  Day 

Nor  now  commands  to  be  nor  rich,  nor 
learned 

Nor  promises  reward  of  peace  to  these. 
On  all  He  moral  worth  bestowed, 
And  moral  tribute  asks  from  all. 
And  who  that  could  not  pay? — 
Who  born  so  poor,  of  intellect  so  mean 
As  not  to  know  what  seemed  the  best 
And  knowing  might  not  do? 
And  He  who  acted  thus  fulfilled  the  law 
eternal 

And  His  promises  reaped  in  peace. 

Who  sought  else  (did  not  do  what  his 
judgment  bade  or  the  spirit  prompt- 
ed) sought  mellow 
grapes  beneath  the  icy  poles, 

Sought  blooming  roses  on  the  cheek  of 
death, 

Sought  substance  in  a  world  of  fleeting 
shades." 

God  help  us  to  be  partakers  of  the 
DIVINE  NATURE.  May  the  spirit  of 
this  great  conference  radiate  from  your 
hearts  to  those  whom  you  will  meet 
when  you  go  back  to  your  stakes  and 
wards,  and  especially  may  it  radiate  in 
your  homes,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Tonight  the  Deseret  Sunday  School 
Union  Conference  will  convene  in  this 
building  at  seven  o'clock.  All  Sunday 
School  workers  will  wish  to  be  in  at- 
tendance. The  public  is  cordially  in- 
vited. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing, 
"Worthy  Is  The  Lamb,"  and  the  bene- 
diction will  be  offered  by  President  G. 
Marion  Hinckley  of  the  West  Utah 
Stake,  and  this  Conference  will  be 
adjourned  sine  die. 


Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir, 
"Worthy  Is  The  Lamb." 

President  G.  Marion  Hinckley  of  the 
West  Utah  Stake  offered  the  benedic- 
tion. 

Conference  adjourned  sine  die. 


The  choral  music  for  the  Friday 
morning  and  afternoon  sessions  was 
furnished  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  from  the  Ogden  and  Northern 
Utah  Regions,  with  Florence  Jepperson 
Madsen  conducting.   The  musical  pro- 


GENERAL  C 

gram  for  the  Saturday  morning  and 
afternoon  sessions  was  furnished  by  the 
University  of  Utah  Choral  Society  and 
the  Bonneville  Strings — singers  from  the 
Institute  of  Religion  and  the  University 
Choral  Groups,  David  Austin  Shand, 
Director.  The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's 
Chorus  presented  musical  numbers  for 
the  General  Priesthood  meeting  Satur- 
day evening,  October  8th,  with  Richard 
P.  Condie  conducting.  The  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the  music 


'NFERENCE  117 

for  the  Sunday  morning  and  afternoon 
sessions,  with  Richard  P.  Condie,  Di- 
rector of  the  Choir,  and  Jay  E.  Welch, 
Assistant  Director,  conducting. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on 
the  organ  were  played  by  Alexander 
Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper  and  Roy  M. 
Darley. 

Richard  P.  Condie  directed  the  sing- 
ing of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  at  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast, 
Sunday  morning  at  8:30. 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


SALT  LAKE  MORMON  TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  was  presented  from  8:30  to 
9:00  a.m.  Sunday,  October  9,  1960, 
through  the  courtesy  of  Columbia  Broad- 
casting System's  network,  throughout 
the  United  States,  parts  of  Canada,  and 
through  other  facilities  to  several  points 
overseas.   The  broadcast  was  as  follows: 

(The  organ  played  "As  the  Dew  From 
Heaven  Distilling,"  and  on  signal  the 
Choir  and  organ  broke  into  the  hymn, 
"Gently  Raise  the  Sacred  Strain,"  sing- 
ing the  words  to  the  end  of  the  second 
line,  and  humming  to  end  of  verse  for 
announcer's  background.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  music  and 
the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads  of 
the  West. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  and  its 
affiliated  stations  bring  you  at  this 
hour  another  presentation  from  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  Richard 
P.  Condie  conducting  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Frank  Asper,  Tabernacle  Organ- 
ist, and  the  spoken  word  by  Richard 
Evans. 

The  Women's  Chorus  of  the  Choir 
first  recalls  Ernest  Charles'  impression  of 
the  coming  and  the  going  of  the  incon- 
stant clouds,  and  their  likeness  to  the 
mystery  of  life:  "Clouds  adrift  in  the 
summer  sky,  resemble  life  as  they 
wander  by.  Whence  they  come  and 
whither  they  go  we  often  wonder  but 
never  know  .  .  .  Part  of  the  infinite,  shall 
we  say,  Part  of  the  moment  we  call 
today." 

(The  Women's  Chorus  of  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  sang:  "Clouds." — Charles- 
Deis.) 

Announcer:  Frank  Asper  turns  first 
today  on  Temple  Square  to  a  triumphant 
organ  theme  selected  from  Benedetto 
Marcello's  Psalm  settings:  "The  Heav- 
ens Declare  The  Glory  of  God  and  the 
firmament  sheweth  his  handy-work." 

(Organ  Selection:  "The  Heavens  De- 
clare."— Marcello.) 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
gives  voice  now  to  R.  Nathaniel  Dett's 
thoughtful,  moving  music  for  the 
scriptural  theme  of  the  Good  Shepherd 


and  the  sheep:  "Listen  to  the  Lambs  all 
a' crying  .  .  .  He  shall  feed  His  flock  like 
a  shepherd  and  carry  the  young  lambs 
in  his  bosom  .  .  .  listen  to  the  lambs  all 
a' crying." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Listen  To  The 
Lambs."— Dett.) 
Announcer: 

Some  recent  weeks  ago  we  spoke  of 
willing  work:  its  dignity,  its  healing 
power,  its  power  to  soften  shocks  and 
sorrows  —  work  which  Carlyle  called 
"The  grand  cure  for  all  the  maladies 
and  miseries  that  ever  beset  mankind."1 
There  is  yet  another  side  of  this  subject 
of  work  that  should  be  considered.  For 
want  of  a  better  word  we  might  call  it 
the  worthiness  of  work.  Work  takes  our 
time,  and  time  is  the  very  essence  of  life, 
and  what  we  give  our  lives  to  is  of 
incalculable  consequence.  And  thus 
there  could  be  little  satisfaction,  little 
justification,  in  unworthy  work  —  work 
that  would  undermine  men,  work  that 
would  mislead  men's  minds  —  or  their 
souls  —  or  their  appetites  —  work  that 
would  in  any  way  impair  people.  Any 
time  or  effort  or  energy  used  to  the  detri- 
ment of  men,  any  work  which  in  purpose 
or  in  practice  pulls  men  down  physically 
or  mentally  or  morally,  likely  isn't 
worthy  work  —  regardless  of  whether  it 
is  profitable  or  politic  or  popular.  Work 
to  deceive  others,  work  to  produce  prod- 
ucts that  are  not  good  for  people,  work 
to  promote  what  is  unwholesome,  work 
to  induce  men  to  do  what  they  should 
not  do,  to  partake  of  what  they  should 
not  partake,  work  to  lead  men  into 
temptation,  work  that  runs  counter  to 
the  commandments,  isn't  worthy  work. 
On  this  question  we  would  quote  some 
sentences  from  a  significant  source: 
".  .  .  Whoever  conceives  labor  in  rela- 
tionship to  the  divine  purpose  .  .  .  will 
not  lend  his  energies  to  the  manufac- 
ture of  goods  which  implicate  [men] 
...  in  wicked  and  sinful  activities.  .  .  ."2 
"The  Christian,"  said  this  same  source, 
"is  therefore  bound  to  refuse  to  partici- 
pate in  the  production  of  wicked  and 
harmful  items  which  injure  or  under- 
mine the  worth  of  man,  as  well  as  to 

^Thomas  Carlyle,  Address  in  Edinburgh,  April  2,  1866. 
2Carl  F.  H.  Henry,  Ph.D.,  The  Dignity  of  Work, 
Vital  Speeches,  August  15,  1954. 


CHOIR  AND  Of 

refuse  to  buy  them.  .  .  ."2  "Nor  can  one 
reconcile  ...  the  expenditure  of  labor 
in  the  production  of  .  .  .  worthless  prod- 
ucts. Drudgery  in  the  production  of 
worth-while  articles  may  be  justified, 
but  .  .  ."2  [not]  "in  the  production  of 
articles  which  have  no  real  worth.  There 
can  be  no  sense  of  purpose  in  making 
trash"3  —  or,  we  might  add,  in  working 
for  what  is  of  no  worth.  The  Lord  God 
has  said  that  "men  should  be  anxiously 
engaged  in  a  good  cause"4  —  not  merely 
"engaged,"  but  engaged  in  "good."  Work- 
ing for  the  wrong  things  manifestly  must 
be  wrong.  To  be  satisfying,  to  be  ac- 
ceptable, work  must  be  more  than  merely 
motions,  more  than  merely  making 
money  —  it  must  be  moral.  Work  should 
enlighten  and  lift  life,  and  play  its 
proper  part  in  promoting  the  peace  and 
health  and  happiness  of  people. 

(Organ  Selection:  "Supplication." — 
Asper.) 

Announcer:  From  his  album  of  organ 
music  we  have  heard  Frank  Asper  pre- 
sent one  of  his  devotional  organ  offer- 
ings: "Supplication." 

And  now  the  Tabernacle  Choir  sings 
the  simple  moving  words  of  the  23rd 
Psalm  —  in  the  simple  moving  setting 
of  Thomas  Koschat:  "The  Lord  is  my 
Shepherd,  I  shall  not  want.  He  maketh 
me  to  lie  down  in  green  pastures:  He 
leadeth  me  beside  the  still  waters.  He 
restoreth  my  soul;  He  leadeth  me  in  the 
paths  of  righteousness  for  His  names 
sake.  Yea,  though  I  walk  through  the 
valley  of  the  shadow  of  death,  I  will 
fear  no  evil:  for  thou  art  with  me;  thy 
rod  and  thy  staff  they  comfort  me.  Thou 
preparest  a  table  before  me  in  the  pres- 
ence of  mine  enemies;  thou  anointest 
my  head  with  oil;  my  cup  runneth  over. 

3Treglown,  The  Christian  and  His  Daily  Work. 
4Doctrine  and  Covenants  58:27. 


'AN  BROADCAST  119 

Surely  goodness  and  mercy  shall  follow 
me  all  the  days  of  my  life:  and  I  will 
dwell  in  the  house  of  the  Lord  forever." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "The  Lord  Is  My 
Shepherd."— Koschat. ) 

(Organ  Selection:  "Prayer  Is  The 
Soul's  Sincere  Desire." — Careless.) 

Announcer:  And  now  with  the  words 
of  Emmeline  B.  Wells  and  the  music  of 
Evan  Stephens  in  closing  we  hear  a 
hymn  of  the  western  hills,  and  of  the 
hand  of  God  that  is  over  all:  "Our 
mountain  home  so  dear,  Where  crystal 
waters  clear  Flow  ever  free  .  .  .  While 
through  the  valleys  wide  The  flowers 
on  every  side,  Blooming  in  stately  pride, 
Are  fair  to  see.  ...  In  sylvan  depth  and 
shade,  In  forest  and  in  glade,  wher-e'er 
we  pass  .  .  .  The  hand  of  God  we  see, 
In  leaf  and  bud  and  tree,  Or  bird  or 
humming  bee,  Or  blade  of  grass." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Our  Mountain 
Home  So  Dear." — Stephens.) 

Announcer:  Again  we  leave  you  with- 
in the  shadows  of  the  everlasting  hills. 
May  peace  be  with  you,  this  day  —  and 
always. 

This  concludes  the  sixteen  hundred 
twenty  fifth  presentation  continuing  the 
32nd  year  of  this  traditional  broadcast 
from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Tem- 
ple Square,  brought  to  you  by  CBS 
Radio,  and  its  affiliated  stations,  origi- 
nating with  Radio  Station  KSL  in  Salt 
Lake  City. 

Richard  P.  Condie  conducted  the 
Tabernacle  Choir.  Frank  Asper  was  at 
the  organ.  The  spoken  word  by  Rich- 
ard Evans. 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  music  and  the  spoken  word  will 
be  heard  again  from  the  Crossroads  of 
the  West. 


Index 

Page 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph    39 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present    1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained    43 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft    101 

Brown,  Elder  Frank  H   13 

Brown,  Elder  Hugh  B   91 

Buehner,  Bishop  Carl  W   52 

Burton,  Elder  Theodore  M   48 

Changes  in  Church  Organizations    39 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    118 

Christiansen,  Elder  EIRay  L   113 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   87 

Critchlow,  Elder  William  J.,  Jr   26 

Dyer,  Elder  Alvin  R   58 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   Ill 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   118 

(Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast) 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting   3 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    18 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present    1 

General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained   43 

General  Priesthood  Meeting    72 

Hanks,  Elder  Marion  D   10 

Hinckley,  Elder  Gordon  B   66 

Hunter,  Elder  Howard  W   107 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R   23 

Isaacson,  Bishop  Thorpe  B   63 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   106 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W   32 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B   14 

Longden,  Elder  John    112 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R   54 

McKay,  President  David  0   4 

(Opening  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  0   85 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

McKay,  President  David  0   114 

(Closing  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  0   3,  4,  8,  10,  13,  14,  18,  19,  23,  26,  29,  32, 

37,  38,  39,  42,  45,  46,  48,  50,  51,  54,  56,  57,  62,  65, 
67,  69,  71,  72,  78,  83,  85,  86,  87,  91,  95,  96,  99, 

100,  101,  106,  107,  109,  111,  112,  113,  114,  116. 

Moyle,  President  Henry  D   19 

Moyle,  President  Henry  D   43 

(Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers) 

Moyle,  President  Henry  D   83 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 


INDEX  121 

Page 

Obituaries   42 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E   78 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers   43 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General    72 

Richards,  Elder  Franklin  D   46 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand    69 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G   73 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting    38 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    57 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G   67 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding    50 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma   109 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L   96 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers    43 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    118 

Tanner,  Elder  Nathan  Eldon    46 

Taylor,  Elder  Henry  D   8 

Third  Day— Morning  Meeting    87 

Third  Day— Afternoon  Meeting    100 

Tuttle,  Elder  Albert  Theodore   95 

Wirthlin,  Bishop  Joseph  L   29 


Printed  by 


in  the  United  States  of  America 


