OnsL  (KwidhsuL  fcbwmih. 

SE1M-AMIJAL 


OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

Odtobah.  «,  5,  6,  MO 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  tha 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


FOR  YOUR  CONSIDERATION 

WE  PRESENT 

JhsL  (Book  d£  TyixfimotL 

The  latest  edition  comes  to  you  in  four  different  bindings.    Of  course  the  text 


remains  the  same. 

Missionary  Edition  $  .50 

Cloth  Binding,  Embossed   1.50 

Full  Morocco   3.00 


3>hDWL  (pfowJboif  io  (phofthaL 

AND 

TYIdMwl  SioMsLdu  Jaowl  iPui  (Book  d$L  VYlDhmotL 

By  WILLIAM  A.  MORTON 

This  delightful  volume  republished  as  a  reiteration  of  the  stories  that  children  love 
to  hear  and  to  read. 

Price  in  Cloth.  $1.25 

J(suf.  to  Jhwloqif 

By  PARLEY  P.  PRATT 
(Reprint  waranted  by  demand) 

"Aims  to  embody  in  a  concise  and  somewhat  original  manner  and  style, 
a  general  view  of  the  Science  of  Theology  as  gathered  from  revelation,  history, 
prophecy,  reason  and  analogy." 

Price   $1.00 

Presented  in  two  important  sets  and  recommended  to  you  as  a  vital  record. 

DOCUMENTARY  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH 
By  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
Presented  in  7  volumes 

COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH 
Presented  in  6  volumes 
For  prices  and  other  information  we  urge  you  to  write  to  us. 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY.  UTAH 


The  One  Hundred  Eleventh  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-Day  Saints 

The  One  Hundred  Eleventh  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  October  4,  5,  and  6,  1940. 

The  entire  proceedings  of  the  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  broadcast  by  radio,  through  the  courtesy  of  Station  KSL  of  Salt 
Lake  City,  for  the  benefit  of  the  public  generally. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  at  each  of  the  sessions  of  the 
Conference ;  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First 
Presidency,  conducted  the  meetings. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and 
David  O.  McKay. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Joseph  •  Fielding 
Smith,  Stephen  L  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  John  A.  Widtsoe, 
Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Charles  A.  Callis ;  Albert  E.  Bowen,  and  Sylvester  Q. 
Cannon. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy  :  Rulon  S.  Wells.  Levi  Edgar 
Young.  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  John  H.  Taylor,  Rufus  K. 
Hardy,  and  Richard  L.  Evans. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  LeGrand  Richards,  Marvin  O.  Ash- 
ton,  and  Joseph  L,  Wirthlin. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHEK    AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants :  Andrew  Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

Members  of  the  General  Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples, 
Patriarchs,  High  Priests,  Seventies,  and  Elders;  General,  Stake,  and 
Ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations. 

Mission  Presidents:  Joseph  J.  Cannon,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake 
City ;  Levi  Edgar  Young,  President  of  the  New  England  Mission.  All 
other  Mission  Presidents  were  excused  from  attendance  at  this  Confer- 
ence, having  been  requested  to  remain  in  their  various  mission  fields. 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  4  First  Day 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  opening  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  Friday  morning, 
October  4,  at  10  o'clock. 

Every  available  seat  in  the  great  Tabernacle  auditorium  and  gal- 
leries was  taken,  being  occupied  by  people  who  had  come  from  the  vari- 
ous Stakes  and  Missions  of  the  Church. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  time  has  come  to  open  the  One  Hundred  Eleventh  Semi-annual 
Conference.  I  am  more  grateful  than  I  can  say,  and  we  here  are  more 
grateful  than  we  can  express,  that  President  Grant  is  with  us  this  morn- 
ing and  is  presiding  at  this  meeting.  He  has  asked  me  to  conduct  these 
services. 

All  official  meetings  of  the  Church  are  announced  in  the  Confer- 
ence Folders,  which  may  be  obtained  at  the  entrance  to  the  Tabernacle. 
Those  who  expect  to  attend  any  of  these  meetings  should  provide  them- 
selves with  a  copy.  All  other  notices,  such  as  reunions,  etc.,  will  be 
found  in  The  Deseret  News. 

The  music  this  morning  will  be  by  the  Singing  Mothers  of  Bonne- 
ville, Cottonwood,  Emigration,  Ensign,  Highland  and  Wells  Stakes. 
They  will  sing  under  the  direction  of  Sisters  Josephine  Brower  and 
Olive  N.  Rich.  The  congregational  singing  will  be  under  the  direction 
of  Richard  P.  Condie.  The  organist  is  Dr.  Frank  W.  Asper. 

The  Chorus  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Now  Let  Us  Rejoice." 

Elder  Joseph  J.  Cannon,  President  of  the  Temple  Square  Mission, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  Singing  Mothers  Chorus,  Sister  Josephine  Brower  directing, 
sang,  "Holiness  Becometh  the  House  of  the  Lord,"  (by  Evan  Stephens). 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  following  changes  in  Church  Officers,  Stake,  Ward,  and  Branch 
Organizations  have  occurred  since  last  April  Conference : 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS,  STAKE  WARD  AND 
BRANCH  ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  LAST 
APRIL  CONFERENCE  ■ 

Special  Appointments 

Thomas  E.  McKay,  former  President  of  the  Swiss  and  East  German 
Missions,  has  been  appointed  to  take  charge  of  affairs  in  the  European 
Missions. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


3 


Franklin  J.  Murdock  has  been  appointed  Church  Mission  Secretary 
and  Transportation  Agent  to  succeed  Harold  G.  Reynolds,  deceased. 

John  D.  Giles,  field  secretary  for  the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improve- 
ment Association,  appointed  special  National  Field  Scout  Commissioner, 
his  jurisdiction  covering  all  units  of  the  Boy  Scouts  of  America  affiliated 
with  the  Church. 

Lee  A.  Palmer  appointed  Associate  Field  Supervisor  of  Aaronic 
Priesthood  and  Y.  M.  M.  I.  A.  youth  program  activities. 

New  Mission  Presidents 

Eugene  M.  Cannon  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Tahitian  Mission 
to  succeed  President  Kenneth  R.  Stevens. 

Wilf  ord  W.  Emery  appointed  to  preside  over  Samoan  Mission  to 
succeed  President  Gilbert  R.  Tingey. 

William  P.  Whitaker  appointed  to  preside  over  Southern  States 
Mission  to  succeed  President  Merrill  D.  Clayson. 

David  F.  Haymore  appointed  to  preside  over  Spanish  American 
Mission  to  succeed  President  Orlando  C.  Williams. 

James  P.  Jensen  appointed  to  preside  over  the  East  Central  States 
Mission  to  succeed  President  William  Thomas  Tew,  Jr. 

Jay  C.  Jensen  appointed  to  preside  over  Japanese  Mission  to  succeed 
President  Hilton  A.  Robertson. 

Nicholas  G.  Smith  appointed  to  preside  over  Northwestern  States 
Mission  to  succeed  President  Preston  Nibley. 

George  F.  Richards,  Jr.,  appointed  to  preside  over  North  Central 
States  Mission  to  succeed  President  David  A.  Broadbent. 

Gustave  A.  Iverson  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Eastern  States 
Mission  to  succeed  President  Frank  Evans. 

New  Temple  Presidency 

Mark  Austin  appointed  to  succeed  Nicholas  G.  Smith  as  First  Counselor 
to  President  Stephen  L.  Chipman  of  the  Salt  Lake  Temple,  and  David 
A.  Broadbent  appointed  to  succeed  George  F.  Richards,  Jr.,  as  Second 
Counselor. 

Charles  V.  Pugh  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Arizona  Temple,  to 
succeed  President  Charles  R.  Jones. 

New  Stakes  Organised 

The  Washington  Stake  was  organized  June  30th  from  branches  in 
the  Eastern  States  Mission,  and  consists  of  the  Arlington,  Chevy  Chase, 
Fairview,  and  Washington  Wards,  and  the  Baltimore  and  Greenbelt 
Branches. 

The  Denver  Stake  was  organized  June  30th  from  branches  in  the 
Western  States  Mission  and  consists  of  the  Cheyenne,  Denver  First, 
Denver  Second,  Englewood,  Laramie,  and  Pueblo  Wards,  and  the  Bar- 
num  and  Ft.  Collins  Branches. 

Stake  Presidents  Sustained 

John  M.  Homer  chosen  President  of  the  Idaho  Falls  Stake  to  succeed 
President  Leonard  G.  Ball. 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  5  First  Day 

Thomas  J.  Brough  chosen  President  of  the  Lyman  Stake  to  succeed 
President  H.  Melvin  Rollins. 

Willis  A.  Oldroyd  chosen  President  of  the  Wayne  Stake  to  succeed 
President  William  F.  Webster. 

Robert  O.  Hatch  chosen  President  of  the  Burley  Stake  to  succeed 
President  David  R.  Langlois. 

Douglas  M.  Todd  chosen  President  of  the  newly  organized  Denver 
Stake. 

Ezra  T.  Benson  chosen  President  of  the  newly  organized  Washing- 
ton Stake. 

Leo  O.  Hansen  chosen  President  of  the  Portneuf  Stake  to  succeed 
President  George  T.  Hyde. 

New  Wards  Organized 

Mesa  Fifth  Ward,  Maricopa  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  Mesa 
Second  Ward. 

Centinela  Ward,  Inglewood  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  the 
Inglewood  Ward. 

Tooele  Fifth  Ward,  Tooele  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  the 
Tooele  2nd  Ward,  and  a  small  section  of  the  Tooele  First  Ward. 

Center  Ward,  St.  George  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  the  three 
St.  George  Wards, 

Arlington  Ward,  Chevy  Chase  Ward,  Fairview  Ward,  and  Wash- 
ington Ward,  Washington  Stake,  were  created  from  branches  in  the 
Eastern  States  Mission. 

East  Glendale  Ward  and  West  Glendale  Ward,  San  Fernando 
Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  the  Glendale  Ward. 

Cheyenne  Ward,  Denver  First  Ward,  Denver  Second  Ward,  Engle- 
wood  Ward,  Laramie  Ward,  and  Pueblo  Ward,  Denver  Stake,  were 
created  from  branches  in  the  Western  States  Mission. 

Independent  Branch  Made  Ward 

Guff  Ward,  Summit  Stake,  formerly  an  Independent  Branch. 

New  Independent  Branches 

Downey  Branch,  South  Los  Angeles  Stake. 
Fruitland  Branch,  Duchesne  Stake. 
Payette  Branch,  Weiser  Stake. 
Durango  Branch,  Young  Stake. 

Baltimore  Branch  and  Greenbelt  Branch,  Washington  Stake,  were 
formerly  branches  in  the  Eastern  States  Mission. 
Oceanside  Branch,  New  York  Stake. 
Sun  Valley  Branch,  Blaine  Stake. 

Barnum  Branch  and  Ft.  Collins  Branch,  Denver  Stake,  were  for- 
merly branches  in  the  Western  States  Mission. 

Wards  Made  Independent  Branches 
,       Strawberry  Branch,  Duchesne  Stake,  formerly  Ward  of  same  Stake. 
Cluff  Branch,  Summit  Stake,  formerly  Ward  of  same  Stake. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


5 


Independent  Branch  Disorganized 

El  Segundo  Branch,  Inglewood  Stake,  discontinued  and  annexed 
to  Inglewood  Ward. 

Those  Who  Have  Passed  Away 

Frank  L.  Ostler,  First  Counselor  in  the  Granite  Stake  Presidency, 
and  a  former  member  of  the  Sunday  School  General  Board. 

Orson  P.  Satterthwaite,  Patriarch  of  the  Logan  Stake. 

James  Ashton,  Presiding  Elder  of  the  Burdett  Branch,  Lethbridge 
Stake. 

John  B.  Fairbanks,  widely  known  Utah  artist,  whose  murals  adorn 
the  interior  of  the  Salt  Lake,  St.  George,  and  Mesa  Temples. 

Mrs.  Manomas  Lovina  Gibson  Andrus,  Pioneer  of  1847,  died  at 
the  age  of  98.    Only  one  1847  Pioneer  survives  her. 

Mrs.  Delia  I.  Winters  Booth,  widow  of  Judge  John  E.  Booth,  well 
known  Pioneer  artist  and  leader  of  industry. 

Bishop  John  Hair,  Jr.,  of  the  Vernal  2nd  Ward,  Uintah  Stake. 

Sarah  Ann  Jenkins  Cannon,  widow  of  the  late  Apostle  Abraham 
Hoagland  Cannon. 

Arthur  Winter,  Chief  Clerk  in  the  office  of  the  First  Presidency 
since  1907 ;  Secretary-Treasurer  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education  since 
1902. 

Eli  Holton,  Ogden  Stake  Clerk. 

James  H.  Wallis,  patriarch  of  Emigration  Stake  and  well  known 
Church  journalist,  publisher  and  musician. 

Almon  Thomas  Butterfield,  member  West  Jordan  Stake  Presidency, 
and  Stake  President  until  1937. 

Lydia  Kimball,  a  daughter  of  Edward  Partridge,  First  Presiding 
Bishop  of  the  Church. 

Samuel  W.  Hendricks,  Benson  Stake  Clerk  for  35  years. 

Alvin  A.  Beesley,  member  of  Ensign  Stake  High  Council,  and  one 
of  the  West's  prominent  musicians. 

Mary  Rebecca  Moyle  Booth,  widow  of  the  late  President  Joseph 
W.  Booth  of  the  Palestine-Syrian  Mission.    An  active  church  worker. 

Mrs.  Jane  Knowlton  Kimball,  widow  of  the  late  President  J.  Golden 
Kimball  of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

It  is  now  my  privilege  to  read  a  Statement  by  the  First  Presidency  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

STATEMENT  BY  THE  FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

The  meeting  of  the  Saints  in  this  General  Conference  finds  the 
world  still  war-torn.  Millions  of  the  Lord's  children  are  suffering  and 
mourning.  All  the  woes  and  misery  that  attend  armed  conflict  are  spend- 
ing their  force  upon  them. 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  5  First  Day 

From  these  afflicted  peoples  comes  the  prediction  that  the  approach- 
ing winter  will  bring  famine.  If  famine  shall  come,  the  history  of  the 
past  shows  it  will  likely  bring  plagues  with  it. 

Our  brethren  and  sisters  are  found  on  both  sides  of  this  terrible 
struggle.  On  each  side  they  are  bound  to  their  country  by  all  the  ties 
of  blood,  relationship,  and  patriotism. 

As  always  happens  in  such  cases,  each  side  claims  to  believe  it  is 
in  the  right.  Each  claims  to  feel  it  is  fighting  for  its  very  existence. 
As  the  war  progresses  in  its  cruelty  and  horror,  each  may  come  to  aim 
at  the  complete  subjugation  or  extermination  of  the  other. 

THE  LORD'S  WAY 

This  would  be  an  inhuman  and  unrighteous  purpose.  God's  way 
requires  that  nations  shall  live  in  peace  and  amity,  one  with  another. 
The  Master's  command  was : 

Love  your  enemies,  do  good  to  them  which  hate  you, 
Bless  them  that  curse  you,  and  pray  for  them  which  despitefully  use 
you.  (Luke  6:27-28) 

The  Saints  on  either  side  have  no  course  open  to  them  but  to  support 
that  government  to  which  they  owe  allegiance.  But  their  prayers  should 
go  up  day  and  night  that  God  will  turn  the  hearts  of  their  leaders  towards 
peace,  that  the  curse  of  war  may  end. 

God  is  not  pleased  either  with  war,  or  with  the  wickedness  which 
always  heralds  it.  When  He  uses  war,  it  is  to  wipe  out  sin  and  un- 
righteousness. 

The  hearts  of  all  the  Saints  are  torn  with  grief  over  the  sufferings 
of  their  brethren  and  sisters  who  are  taking  part  in  this  struggle.  So,  for 
the  Saints  this  is  a  fratricidal  conflict.  They  so  mourn  over  it.  Their 
prayers  ascend  to  our  Heavenly  Father  that  the  war  may  come  to  a 
speedy  end. 

To  those  Saints  who  are  stricken  by  this  great  tragedy,  we  say  live 
righteously,  pray  constantly,  and  the  Lord  will  answer  as  your  faith  and 
works  and  His  all-wise  purposes  allow  Him. 

To  those  whose  wickedness  has  brought  this  strife  and  turmoil, 
we  say  repent  lest  the  Lord  shall  smite  you  in  His  wrath.  He  will  not 
hold  you  guiltless  of  the  innocent  blood  of  your  f  ellowmen. 

To  all  the  nations,  we  say  adjust  your  differences  by  peaceful  means. 
This  is  the  Lord's  way. 

America's  opportunity  to  be  peacemaker 
To  our  nation  we  repeat  the  Master's  admonition : 

Blessed  are  the  peacemakers :  for  they  shall  be  called  the  children  of 
God.  (Matt.  5:9) 

How  infinitely  greater  it  is  to  lead  nations  to  peace,  than  to  subdue 
a  nation  to  chains.  Let  America  put  her  house  in  order,  forsake 
selfishness,  greed,  and  avarice,  abolish  unrighteousness,  wipe  hate  from 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


7 


her  heart,  hold  in  loyal  friendship  the  good  and  upright  of  all  nations 
and  peoples.  Then  to  her  shall  come  the  high  destiny  of  the  peacemaker. 

PRAYER  FOR  PEACE 

We  humbly  pray  our  Heavenly  Father,  that  He  will  send  to  the 
earth  His  messengers  of  peace,  that  this  terrible  war  shall  afflict  no  more 
nations  and  spread  no  farther  over  the  face  of  the  land,  that  fear  and 
frenzy  shall  be  driven  out  from  their  place  among  the  peoples,  that  hate 
shall  be  banished  from  the  souls  of  men,  for  where  hate  abides,  there 
righteousness  cannot  live ;  that  sanity  shall  again  assert  its  sway,  and  that 
love  shall  fill  the  hearts  of  men  even  to  overflowing. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Taking  advantage  of  the  fact  that  I  am  conducting  the  meeting, 
and  in  order  to  put  myself  out  of  misery  as  early  as  possible,  I  wish  now 
to  say  something  to  the  Conference,  and,  as  I  wish  to  make  it  as  con- 
cise as  possible  and  be  sure  to  say  the  things  as  nearly  like  I  want  to  say 
them  as  possible,  I  have  submitted  it  to  writing. 

PAMPHLETS 

Reports  come  to  us  that  pamphlets  are  being  circulated  among  the 
people  under  circumstances  that  lead  some  to  believe  they  are  published 
and  distributed  under  some  kind  of  approval  or  sanction  from  the  Gen- 
eral Authorities  of  the  Church.  These  pamphlets  are  said  to  contain 
extracts  from  early  sermons  delivered  by  the  early  leaders  of  the  Church, 
the  parts  of  the  discourses  printed  having  to  do  with  world  conditions 
which  the  compilers  of  the  pamphlets  apply  to  the  situation  existing  in 
the  earth  today. 

COMPILATION  AND  DISTRIBUTION  NOT  AUTHORIZED 

The  General  Authorities  have  had  nothing  whatever  to  do  with  the 
preparation  of  these  pamphlets  nor  have  they  sanctioned  or  approved 
their  compilation  or  issuance.  When  the  General  Authorities  shall 
wish  to  do  anything  of  this  sort,  they  will  do  it  under  their  own  names 
and  will  not  hide  their  identity  behind  some  Church  member. 

It  is  also  reported  to  us  that  in  many  cases,  these  extracts  as  ap- 
pearing in  the  pamphlets  are  in  effect  garbled  and  that  moreover  when 
read  in  the  full  text  in  which  they  appear,  they  take  on  quite  a  different 
meaning  from  what  they  seem  to  have  when  torn  from  their  context. 
A  text  should  always  be  studied  for  its  real  meaning  in  connection  with 
the  full  context. 

Furthermore,  it  is  our  information  that  these  pamphlets  are  in  some 
instances  being  surreptitiously  merchandized  even  in  the  Temples,  and 
also  in  Priesthood  quorum  meetings.  This  should  not  be  done.  The 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


Temples  are  holy  places ;  they  are  not  book  stores ;  they  are  not  places 
in  which  propaganda  is  to  be  carried  on.  The  people  are  warned  against 
all  these  perversive  activities.  Moreover,  Priesthood  quorum  meetings- 
are  not  book-selling  gatherings ;  they  are  meetings  for  the  study  of  the 
Gospel  and  the  carrying  on  of  the  regular  Priesthood  activities. 


,  There  are  too  many  marriages  of  our  young  people  that  are  mere  civil 
marriages — marriages  for  time.  This  is  much  to  be  regretted.  It  is  a 
situation  that  calls  for  remedy  from  every  Bishop,  from  every  aux- 
iliary organization,  and  from  every  parent. 

After  its  absence  from  the  earth  for  hundreds  and  hundreds  of 
years,  the  Lord  revealed  in  this  Dispensation  of  .  the  Fullness  of  Times, 
the  principle  of  the  eternity  of  the  marriage  covenant,  and  He  restored 
to  the  earth  the  divine  authority  to  consummate  it.  This  revelation 
and  this  restoration  makes  of  marriage  a  holy  relationship,  out  of  which 
and  out  of  which  only,  can  come  man's  greatest  glory  and  exaltation. 


You  young  people  are  trifling  with  your  divine  destiny,  you  are 
treating  lightly  a  great  commandment,  you  are  casting  aside  as  dross  the 
greatest  opportunity  that  comes  into  your  life,  when  you  fail  or  refuse  to 
be  married  in  our  temples  where  husband  and  wife  may  be  sealed  for 
time  and  for  all  eternity  by  the  men  bearing  the  holy  Priesthood  of 
God.  A  civil  marriage — and  that  is  all  any  marriage  is  that  is  performed 
outside  the  temple — merely  legalizes  a  marital  relationship.  It  has  none 
of  the  effects  of  a  sealing  for  time  and  eternity. 

You  young  people,  if  you  think  enough  of  one  another  to  marry  at 
all,  you  should  love  one  another  enough  to  wish  to  perpetuate  your 
association  forever ;  if  you  do  not  think  enough  of  one  another  for  that, 
you  may  well  hesitate  long  before  you  decide  to  go  forward  in  life 
otherwise.  The  situation  is  not  changed  by  having  your  Bishop  or 
President  of  Stake,  or  some  ex-Bishop  friend,  or  like  person,  perform 
the  ceremony  for  time.    All  these  are  civil  marriages  only. 


In  his  eloquent  oration  on  the  Pioneers  last  July,  President  Bryant 
S.  Hinckley  read  the  following  statements  made  by  Brigham  Young : 

Talk  about  these  rich  valleys,  why  there  is  not  another  people  on 
earth  that  could  have  come  here  and  lived.  We  prayed  over  the  land,  and 
dedicated  it  and  the  water,  air,  and  everything  pertaining  to  them  unto 
the  Lord,  and  the  smiles  of  heaven  rested  on  the  land  and  it  became  produc- 
tive and  today  it  yields  the  best  of  grain,  fruit,  and  vegetables.  .  .  .  There 
never  has  been  a  land  from  the  days  of  Adam  until  now  that  has  been 
blessed  more  than  this  land  has  been  blessed  by  our  Father  in  heaven; 
and  it  will  be  blessed  more  and  more  if  we  are  faithful  and  humble  and 
thankful  to  God  for  the  wheat  and  corn,  the  oats,  the  fruit,  the  vegetables, 


EXALTATION  THROUGH  TEMPLE  MARRIAGE 


OPPORTUNITIES  FORFEITED  IN  CIVIL  MARRIAGE 


OUR  LANDS 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


9 


the  cattle,  and  everything  He  bestows  upon  us,  and  try  to  use  them  for  the 
building  up  of  His  kingdom  on  earth. 

I  can  remember,  and  so  can  all  you  older  brethren  and  sisters,  when 
our  lands  were  in  the  heydey  of  their  productivity.  We  can  remember 
when  the  snow  drifted  deep  in  the  mountain  gorges,  when  the  run-offs 
of  the  springtime  made  our  streams  rushing  torrents  that  watered  our 
lands  and  spread  out  upon  them  the  rich  fertilizing  sediments  from  the 
mountains,  when  our  farmers  and  stockmen  were  prosperous,  when  we 
merited  the  symbol  adopted  for  the  State — a  busy  hive  of  industry,  when 
our  homes  and  fences  and  barns  and  corrals  were  in  repair,  when  our 
farmers'  words  were  as  good  as  their  bonds,  and  both  were  A-l. 

CHANGING  SCENES 

The  old  time  snows  have  not  been  falling  in  the  mountains  for 
many  years.  Our  farms  are  run-down,  many  acres  of  them  are  idle,  our 
fences  and  barns  and  corrals  are  falling  down,  our  homes  are  unpainted, 
the  roofs  leak,  our  streets  are  full  of  weeds,  too  many  of  our  meeting 
houses  are  shabby,  we  look  too  much  like  idling  ne'er-do-wells.  Another 
fifty  years  of  this  will  almost  return  us  to  the  desert. 

Again  quoting  Brother  Brigham : 

You  inquire  if  we  shall  stay  in  these  mountains.  I  answer  yes,  as 
long  as  we  please  to  do  the  will  of  God  our  Father  in  heaven.  If  we  are 
pleased  to  turn  away  from  the  holy  commandments  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  as  ancient  Israel  did,  every  man  turning  to  his  own  way,  we  shall 
be  scattered  and  peeled,  driven  before  our  enemies  and  persecuted  until 
we  learn  to  remember  the  Lord  our  God  and  are  willing  to  walk  in  His 
ways. 

There  are  other  enemies  than  human  persecutors.  We  can  be  our 
own  worst  enemies,  and  drive  ourselves  away  from  our  most  cherished 
possessions. 

LAND  BLESSED  THROUGH  PRAYER  AND  EFFORT 

Would  we  not  better  pray  again  over  this  land  and  the  air  and 
the  water  and  everything  pertaining  to  them?  Would  we  not  better 
turn  our  reliance  to  our  own  efforts  and  their  fruits  as  blessed  by  the 
Lord?  Why  should  the  Lord  bless  the  land  we  do  not  farm?  Why 
should  He  give  us  water  for  that  land  we  are  not  using  ?  Why  should 
He  give  us  crops  when  we  do  not  plant  ?  Why  should  He  bless  us  with 
His  blessings  when  our  reliance  is  put  not  in  Him  but  on  government 
gratuities  for  not  working,  for  not  farming,  for  not  doing  the  things 
that  have  been  man's  allotted  part  since  Adam  was  driven  from  the 
Garden. 

The  Lord  cannot  be  pleased  with  shiftless  idleness ;  those  of  us  in 
default  must  mend  our  ways. 

The  tragedy  of  all  this  is,  that  the  innocent  must  as  always  suffer 
at  least  in  part  the  punishments  that  afflict  the  guilty.  The  rain  falls 
on  the  unjust  as  upon  the  just,  and  the  lands  of  the  just  parch  as  do 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  5  First  Day 

those  of  the  unjust.  Yet  God  will  not  forget  those  who  serve  Him 
and  keep  His  commandments.  Their  reward  is  sure,  in  their  happiness, 
in  their  blessings  of  contentment,  of  health,  of  the  consciousness  of  a 
life  well  lived,  in  their  salvation  and  exaltation. 

CHURCH  GRAIN  ELEVATORS 

As  the  press  has  announced,  the  grain  elevator  which  has  been 
under  construction  at  the  Church  Storage  Square  has  now  been  com- 
pleted. Its  capacity  is  318,000  bushels.  With  what  may  prove  to  be  a 
spirit  of  forecast,  it  has  been  named  Church  Elevator  No.  1.  The 
Church  also  has  an  elevator  at  McCammon,  Idaho,  with  a  capacity  of 
some  80,000  bushels,  and  a  small  one  at  Sharp's  Spur,  Levan  Ridge,  with 
a  capacity  of  8,500  bushels — or  a  total  wheat  storage  capacity  of  some 
400,000  bushels. 

The  Church  has  borne  the  cost  of  securing  and  building  these 
elevators.  The  Relief  Society  Wheat  Fund  will  be  used  by  the  Relief 
Society  to  fill  the  elevators  with  wheat.  The  Church  will  assume  the 
upkeep,  maintenance,  repair  cost,  as  also  the  cost  of  storage  of  and  in 
these  elevators.  It  will  be  necessary  from  time  to  time  to  replace  this 
wheat  so  stored.  The  Church  will  absorb  the  losses  incident  to  this 
operation,  and  if  at  any  time  such  operation  yields  a  profit,  this  will  be 
applied  towards  the  costs  of  running  the  elevator. 

So  far  as  possible,  all  labor  incident  to  this  storage  operation  will 
be  Welfare  labor. 

A  relatively  small  part  of  the  storage  space  in  these  elevators  will 
be  used  by  the  Welfare  Committee  for  storing  various  grains  in  con- 
nection with  their  various  operations. 

WHEAT  DONATIONS  RESTORED 

Thus  we  return  to  its  original  form  the  donations  of  wheat,  made 
by  the  people  to  the  sisters,  and  by  the  Relief  Society  sisters  themselves, 
beginning  back  in  the  time  of  Brigham  Young.  These  donations  were 
made  at  the  sacrifice  of  comforts  and  sometimes  of  necessities.  In  the 
beginning  they  frequently  represented  the  result  of  gleaning  the  wheat 
fields  by  the  sisters  themselves, — a  grievous  toil  ofttimes,  but  one  that 
brought  joy  to  their  hearts  at  the  time  and  a  reward  from  their  Heavenly 
Father  in  the  hereafter.  Our  fathers  and  grandfathers,  our  mothers 
and  grandmothers  were  fashioned  in  heroic  molds ;  they  were  built  of 
the  virtues  that  make  mighty  empires.  It  is  not  too  much  to  hope  and 
pray  that  we  of  our  day  may  measure  to  their  stature. 

WELFARE  PLAN 

The  Welfare  Plan  is  growing  daily  in  its  efficiency,  thanks  to  the 
untiring  devotion  of  the  Welfare  workers  in  the  Wards,  and  Stakes,  and  at 
the  central  office. 

The  Plan  has  now  been  in  operation  a  little  over  four  years.  During 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


11 


that  time  it  has  helped  an  average  of  about  50,000  individuals  annually. 
Experience  has  been  gained  that  has  enabled  those  in  charge  so  to 
perfect  their  plans  that,  as  was  stated  at  the  last  April  Conference, 
we  feel  assured  that  short  of  a  great  worldwide  calamity  that  should 
affect  the  very  foundations  of  our  whole  economic  life,  the  Church 
will  be  able  to  care  for  the  indispensable  needs  of  its  worthy  poor,  in 
time  of  want.  This  was  our  first  objective, — to  maintain  life. 

TO  REBUILD  CIVIC,  RELIGIOUS  LIVES 

Co-equal  with  that  was  the  rebuilding  in  those  who  had  a  temporary 
misfortune,  of  a  full  civic  and  religious  life.  It  was  the  aim  that  no 
one  of  them  should  come  to  feel  that  because  he  had  suffered  a  financial 
setback,  he  had  had  closed  against  him  any  social  or  spiritual  activity 
or  opportunity  for  progress  and  ultimate  achievement.  No  Bishop 
has  done  his  full  duty,  and  no  Ward  Relief  Society  has  met  its  full 
opportunity,  that  has  left  any  needy  Ward  member  in  doubt  on  these 
matters. 

From  the  very  beginning,  the  problem  has  been  to  keep  away  from 
ambitious  and  often  ill-considered  plans  and  schemes  for  remaking  society 
and  recreating  our  economic  structure.  It  would  have  been  a  simple 
matter  to  begin  visionary  undertakings  that  would  not  only  have  bank- 
rupted the  Church  but  that  would  have  broken  the  heart  and  courage 
of  all  of  us  by  the  greatness  of  our  disaster.  We  have  therefore  gone 
slowly  and  watched  each  step  taken.  The  Lord  has  been  with  us  in 
this  plan. 

EXPANSION  OF  PLAN 

As  by-products  of  securing  the  necessaries  of  life  for  the  needy, 
we  have  adventured  into  a  few  other  fields  where  we  felt  we  could 
help  those  who  were  near  distress  as  well  as  those  actually  in  need. 
We  have  created  an  organization  that  has  made  small  character  loans  to 
men  and  women  who  could  not  borrow  from  financial  institutions ;  we 
have  set  up  a  manufacturing  establishment  for  the  renovating  and  build- 
ing of  household  furniture  and  fixtures,  which  gives  employment  par- 
ticularly to  willing  but  aged  unemployables,  and  that  provides  cheap 
articles  for  the  needy.  We  have  set  up  an  agricultural  committee  to 
help  find  farms  for  young  men  especially  who  wished  to  farm  and 
whose  training  and  experience  gave  some  reasonable  assurance  they 
could  farm  successfully.  We  have  now  set  up  a  committee  whose  business 
it  is  to  investigate  what,  if  anything,  the  Church  may  wisely  undertake 
to  do,  consistent  with  its  resources,  to  help  by  advice  or  otherwise  in 
setting  up  cooperatives,  both  for  production  and  marketing. 

MEASURES  TAKEN  TO  PRODUCE  WELFARE  MATERIALS 

One  of  our  aims  has  been  to  produce  as  fast  and  as  fully  as  possible, 
within  the  program  itself,  all  the  materials  we  need  to  carry  out  our 
Welfare  work.   We  are  doing  this  first  by  making  surveys  of  the  needs 


1 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  5  First  Day 

of  each  Ward  and  Stake  of  the  Church,  then  by  making  a  budget  of 
production  covering  these  needs,  and  then  by  assigning  these  budgetary 
needs  among  the  various  Stakes  able  to  produce  them.  The  first  year  we 
were  able  to  furnish  only  some  10%  of  what  we  used.  This  proportion 
has  constantly  risen  each  year  until  last  year  we  produced  approximately 
58%  and  this  year  we  expect  to  produce,  in  our  better  organized  regions, 
substantially  70%  of  our  needs,  and  we  hope  by  another  year  to  make 
it  nearly  100%.  There  will  always  be  a  few  articles,  such  as  spices,  for 
example,  that  we  must  buy. 

In  doing  all  this,  we  have  acquired  and  are  operating  a  coal  mine, 
we  have  helped  in  starting  lumber  mills,  a  plaster  mill,  we  are  now 
setting  up  a  poultry  farm,  and  are  preparing  to  install  a  milk  processing 
plant.  Other  things  will  be  added  as  rapidly  as  consistent  with  a  wise 
development.  Lastly  we  have  set  up,  as  an  experiment,  a  small  revolving 
fund  to  be  used  in  building  very  modest  homes  for  those  who  are  in  a 
position  to  get  some  help  from  financial  institutions.  This  can  easily 
lead  into  such  large  outlays  of  money  that  we  are  going  ahead  very 
carefully  and  slowly.  We  never  forget  that  the  funds  we  are  handling 
are  stamped  with  the  most  sacred  trust  that  can  mark  money,  for  they 
are  the  tithes  and  offerings  given  by  the  Saints  to  build  up  the  Church 
and  Kingdom'  of  God.  Out  in  the  Northwest  they  are  carrying  on 
locally  such  a  housing  program  under  most  promising  circumstances. 
The  same  sort  of  operations  are  going  on  in  many  other  parts  of  the 
Church,  principally  under  the  direct  sponsorship  of  Priesthood  quorums. 
All  this  is  most  gratifying  and  encouraging.  We  are  very  hopeful  that 
out  of  all  these  experiences  we  shall  be  able  to  work  out  a  successful 
plan  for  such  undertakings,  but,  I  repeat,  we  are  going  slowly  and 
cautiously,  and  here,  as  always,  we  must  look  primarily  to  the  local 
groups  themselves  to  carry  on  this  work,  not  alone  the  work  of  supplying 
the  labor  therefor,  but  the  burden  of  furnishing  the  finances,  also.  The 
Church  cannot  undertake,  the  undertaking  would  be  too  vast,  to  furnish 
the  money  for  this  and  other  like  matters,  the  Church  Wards  and  Stakes 
or  Priesthood  quorums  furnishing  merely  the  labor.  These  agencies 
must  also  look  forward  to  furnishing  the  great  bulk  if  not  all  of  the 
finances  as  well  as  the  labor  for  such  special  projects. 

WELFARE  PLAN  FOR  MUTUAL  HELPFULNESS 

As  was  expected,  there  are  now  appearing  certain  tendencies  which 
unless  we  meet  them  squarely  and  correct  them  at  once,  will  lead  to  the 
creation  of  a  Church  dole  system,  the  very  last  thing  the  Church  intends 
to  do.  From  the  foundation  of  the  Church  until  now,  idleness  has 
been  condemned  as  unworthy  of  Church  members,  as  destructive  of 
character,  as  violative  of  the  true  Christian  life,  as  contrary  to  the  com- 
mand given  to  Adam  as  the  law  of  this  world  "In  the  sweat  of  thy  brow, 
thou  shalt  eat  bread."  The  Lord  has  repeatedly  spoken  about  it  in  our 
time. 

The  task  which  the  Welfare  system  has  now  most  urgently  to  do 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


13 


is  to  provide  work  for  those  who  receive  help.  We  urge  all  of  the 
people  to  cooperate  with  the  Ward  Welfare  Committees  to  this  end. 
It  should  be  possible  for  plans  to  be  worked  out  by  which  any  man 
in  a  community  having  a  job  to  be  done  could  go  to  his  bishop  and  state 
his  need ;  that  then  the  bishop,  either  directly  or  through  the  Stake  or 
regional  organization,  could  supply  this  man  with  the  help  needed  for 
the  job ;  the  man  having  the  work  done  would  pay  to  his  bishop,  as  a 
contribution  to  the  Welfare  Plan,  the  cash  value  of  the  labor  at  the 
regular  wage  values ;  to  the  man  doing  the  work  at  the  instance  of  the 
bishop,  the  bishop  would  give  as  compensation  for  his  work,  an  order 
on  the  storehouse  for  the  things  which  the  man  needed,  or  in  some 
cases  the  man  might  be  given  part  cash,  the  order  on  the  storehouse 
and  the  cash  to  furnish  sufficient  to  meet  the  needs  of  the  one  doing 
the  work.  Such  an  operation  will  give  the  Welfare  worker  something 
to  do,  it  will  enable  the  member  having  the  work  to  do  to  get  the  work 
done  as  cheaply  and  as  well  as  he  could  get  it  done  otherwise  and  it  will 
give  to  the  member  having  the  work  done  and  to  the  Welfare  worker 
joy  and  satisfaction  over  their  mutual  helpfulness.  I  want  to  say  to 
the  people  of  the  Church  that  we  have  found  these  Welfare  workers 
capable  and  industrious  in  what  they  undertake.  They  are  not  the  kind 
of  workers  that  the  W.  P.  A.'s  are  sometimes  described  to  be.  Welfare 
workers  are  frequently  men  who  from  one  cause  or  another  are  no  longer 
employable  in  regular  industry  but  who,  like  their  younger  fellow  Welfare 
workers,  can  and  will  still  do  a  day's  work  for  a  day's  pay.  We  honor 
all  such  men  and  are  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  their  integrity,  industry, 
and  devotion  to  their  duty,  and  for  their  loyalty  to  the  Church. 

"good  times" 

By  the  present  outlook,  there  will  be  for  the  next  months  a  great 
increase  in  industrial  activity,  which  may  be  expected  to  have  a  general 
reaction  on  all  business,  and  if  so  we  shall  have  a  period,  longer  or 
shorter,  of  so-called  good  times.  We  members  of  the  Church  should 
not  be  misled  by  this.  The  great  bulk  of  the  money  which  is  to  be  ex- 
pended in  this  industrial  expanse  will  be  wholly  unproductive  from  an 
economic  standpoint.  The  nation  will  be  billions  poorer,  not  richer  by 
these  expenditures,  in  so  far  as  our  economic,  commercial,  and  industrial 
national  life  is  concerned.  These  billions  must  be  raised  either  by 
increased  taxes,  which  we  must  expect  will  increase  the  cost  of  living, 
or  by  further  borrowings  that  will  greatly  increase  our  public  debt  and 
so  add  to  our  taxes,  or  the  money  may  be  raised  by  both  means.  As  I 
said  at  another  Conference,  after  the  war  with  all  this  destruction  of 
wealth — that  is  property — is  past,  we  must  be  prepared  to  face  anothei 
depression,  the  depth  and  duration  of  which  we  may  not  now  know 
We  shall  hope  that  this  temporary  "prosperity,"  as  we  shall  probably  call 
it,  that  may  come,  will  not  lead  the  Welfare  organizations  and  workers  to 
relax  any  effort  to  perfect  their  organization  so  as  effectively  to  carry 


14  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  5  First  Day 

on  their  relief  work.  I  assure  you  we  shall  hereafter  need  all  the  help 
we  can  now  plan  and  provide  for. 

COMPULSORY  MILITARY  SERVICE  INAUGURATED 

In  saying  this  I  am  not  passing  any  judgment  upon  or  making  any 
criticism  of  our  preparedness  program.  We  must  be  able  to  resist 
invasion.  But  I  may  point  out  that  for  the  first  time  in  our  history  we 
are  inaugurating  universal  compulsory  military  service  and  apparently 
we  are  preparing  to  maintain  a  great  standing  army,  both  of  which  have 
been  under  a  wise  ban  during  our  whole  national  existence,  because  they 
have  been  deemed  dangerous  to  our  Constitutional  government  and  to 
our  free  institutions. 

INVASION  A  REMOTE  POSSIBILITY 

It  may  also  be  observed  that  we  have  had  built  in  our  minds  a  sort 
of  frenzy  of  fear  of  foreign  and  subjugating  invasion.  Responsible 
military  opinion  credibly  reported,  is  to  the  point  that  while  desultory 
air  raids  causing  great  damage  and  considerable  loss  of  life,  might, 
under  more  or  less  ideal  weather  conditions  over  the  whole  Atlantic, 
be  made  against  some  of  our  Eastern  coast  cities,  yet  an  armed  invasion 
by  great  foreign  armies  sufficient  to  conquer  us,  is  such  a  remote 
possibility  under  existing  means  and  methods  of  transportation  as  should 
not  make  us  hysterical,  and  we  are  nearly  so  now. 

It  does  seem  that  if  the  navigation  of  a  channel  20  miles  wide  can 
hold  up  a  belligerent  from  making  even  an  attempt  at  armed  invasion 
for  a  period  of  weeks  now  ripening  into  months,  that  the  navigation  of 
an  ocean  3000  miles  wide  might  be  a  suff  icient  barrier  to  any  great  armed 
invasion  at  all,  and  we  need  not  take  too  seriously  threats  by  that 
belligerent  to  do  so,  or  his  brags  either.  One  hundred  thirty  odd  millions 
of  free  people,  with  unlimited  resources  and  the  highest  industrial  de- 
velopment in  the  world,  will  give  some  pause  to  the  most  ambitious 
ruler.  Nevertheless,  until  the  world  quiets  down  and  sanity  comes 
back  to  men,  we  should  be  prepared  to  repulse  such  an  invasion  if  it  came. 
Our  preparation  should  be  solely  to  repel  invasion,  not  to  conduct  an 
aggressive  war  nor  to  make  conquests.  But  let  us  not  fall  into  a  panic 
of  fear. 

WAR 

In  the  hope  that  it  may  tend  to  mitigate  some  of  the  hate  now 
rising  that  threatens  to  engulf  us,  as  well  as  for  our  peace  of  mind 
and  our  ability  to  gauge  future  happenings,  it  seems  well  that  we  should 
be  under  no  misapprehension  as  to  the  present  status  of  the  United 
States  in  the  existing  European  conflict.  By  all  the  rules  and  principles 
by  which  nations  have  governed  their  conduct  in  the  past,  the  United 
States  has  already  committed  several  hostile  acts  and  we  are  in  fact  now 
at  war, 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


15 


It  is  the  settled  law  of  war,  that  the  private  citizens  of  neutral 
states  may,  without  in  any  way  jeopardizing  the  neutrality  of  their 
sovereign,  carry  on  commerce  with  either  or  both  belligerents  subject 
to  certain  rights  of  search,  seizure  and  confiscation  by  the  belligerents 
in  cases  of  trading  in  contraband  of  war  or  in  case  of  violating  a  legal, 
effective  blockade;  but  it  is  just  as  well  settled  that  no  neutral  state 
can  itself  supply  one  belligerent  with  the  materials  of  war,  without  thereby 
losing  its  character  as  a  neutral  and  becoming  itself  a  belligerent. 

The  nations  of  the  earth  in  their  last  voluntary  and  near  unanimous 
statement  of  the  law  on  these  matters,  declared : 

The  supply,  in  any  manner,  directly  or  indirectly,  by  a  neutral  power 
to  a  belligerent  power,  of  warships,  ammunition,  or  war  material  of  any 
kind  whatever,  is  forbidden.  (Hague  Convention  XIII,  1907) 

U.  S.  NEUTRALITY  VIOLATED 

There  seems  no  question  but  that  we  have  supplied  to  one  of  the 
belligerents,  our  own  secret  inventions  for  waging  war,  our  own  air 
armament,  and  now  our  own  armed  vessels  of  war,  fully  provisioned 
and  in  every  way  equipped  for  immediate  belligerent  service.  Opinions 
differ  as  to  whether  or  not  Congress  authorized  the  last  transaction, 
but  Congressional  approval  would  not  change  the  international  character 
of  the  act  but  only  give  relief  from  the  violation  of  our  own  law. 

We  have  been  the  victims  of  a  similar  act  upon  the  part  of  Great 
Britain.  In  1863,  the  Confederates  were  fitting  out  at  Birkenhead, 
opposite  Liverpool,  two  iron-clads  for  use  against  Union  commerce. 
Our  Minister  in  London  repeatedly  called  the  situation  to  the  attention 
of  Earl  Russell,  who  replied  that  the  British  Government  "could  not 
interfere  in  any  way  with  these  vessels."  Mr.  Adams,  answering,  ex- 
pressed "profound  regret"  at  this  conclusion  of  the  British  Government, 
and  added :  "It  would  be  superfluous  in  me  to  point  out  to  your  Lordship 
that  this  is  war."   The  British  Government  then  acted. 

As  the  result  of  other  and  many  acts  of  the  sort  threatened  here, 
we  demanded  arbitration  as  to  whether  or  not  Britain  had  violated 
her  neutrality.  Britain,  be  it  said  to  her  eternal  credit  (for  our  charges 
touched  really  her  honor)  consented.  The  result  of  the  arbitration 
was  the  largest  single  award  of  damages  in  our  favor  ever  rendered 
by  any  arbitral  tribunal. 

HOSTILE  ACTS 

Again  there  seems  no  doubt  but  that  we  now  have  made  some  kind 
of  an  alliance  with  one  of  the  belligerents,  Canada,  that  if  her  enemy 
shall  attack  her,  we  shall  join  in  Canada's  defense.  Thus  agreeing  to 
give  aid  and  succor  to  one  of  the  belligerents  against  the  other,  if  it  is 
attacked  by  the  other,  and  such  attack  is  of  course  the  normal  course 
of  war,  is  on  our  part  a  hostile,  belligerent  act  against  Canada's  enemy. 
So  we  are  at  war  also  on  that  score. 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  5  First  Day 

Finally,  while  the  details  are  not  known,  we  are  said  to  have  leased 
some  naval  or  air  bases  from  one  of  the  belligerents  without,  it  is  as- 
sumed, consulting  the  other  belligerent.  These  leases  are  probably 
in  such  form  and  made  for  such  purposes  as  also  constitute  hostile  acts, 
for  it  is  inconceivable  that  Britain,  following  her  centuries-old  policies, 
would  lease  to  any  power  any  of  her  territory  for  military  use  and 
occupancy,  except  she  was  to  receive  military  aid  as  the  result. 

So  we  are  at  war.  We  should  not  be  misled  as  to  the  nature  of  our- 
acts,  if  and  when  Britain's  enemy  strikes  back  at  us.  In  such  event, 
should  we  be  told  that  Britain's  enemy  commits  against  us  an  act  of 
aggressive,  inexcusable  warfare,  we  should  know  that  this  will  not 
be  fact,  for  under  the  rules  and  principles  of  war  we  have  already 
in  effect  declared  war  against  that  enemy. 

As  already  stated,  I  have  said  these  things  in  the  hope  that  it  may 
assuage  a  little  the  hate  that  will  be  piling  up  if  and  when  that  act  comes. 
A  Latter-day  Saint  cannot  hate  anybody.  The  hates  of  the  last  war 
are  the  moving  cause  of  this  one.  So  it  will  be  to  the  end,  unless 
we  shall  conquer  hate.    This  the  Gospel  helps  us  to  do. 

REGISTRATION 

Utah  has  an  honorable  record  for  its  service  and  support  of  this 
nation  in  times  of  war.  The  people  of  the  Church  share  in  that  record. 
The  people  of  the  Church  are  patriotic.  In  this  time  of  preparation 
for  eventualities  which  we  all  pray  may  not  come  to  us,  we  people  must 
do-  our  full  share.  We  shall  confidently  expect  that  no  young  man 
member  of  the  Church,  will  seek  to  evade  his  full  responsibility.  We 
feel  assured  that  every  young  man  will  do  his  full  duty,  and  live 
the  precepts  that  guide  the  Church  and  its  membership  "in  obeying, 
honoring,  and  sustaining  the  law."  We  ask  our  young  men  who 
go  into  training  camps  to  remember  always  the  teachings  of  their  parents 
and  of  the  Church;  we  ask  them  to  keep  themselves  unsoiled,  in  body 
and  mind;  we  ask  them  to  remember  that  our  faith  requires  that  they 
be  'honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  and  to  do  good  to  all  men,  .  .  .  and 
that  if  anything  is  virtuous,  lovely,  or  of  good  report,  or  praiseworthy, 
they  should  seek  after  those  things.'  If  they  shall  do  all  these  things 
we  promise  them  the  blessings  of  the  Lord. 

FAMINE  AND  PLAGUE 

As  has  been  already  noted,  both  belligerents  appear  to  have  predicted 
famine  for  the  other.  One  of  the  belligerents  has,  according  to  the  press, 
predicted  plague  for  the  other.  If  this  prediction  means  that  the  one 
making  it  intends  to  infect  the  other  with  plague,  by  some  means  or  other, 
then  it  must  be  said  that  such  infection  would  mark  a  degree  of  infamy 
and  savagery  for  which  the  modern  world  holds  no  parallel,  and  against 
which  all  the  instincts  of  humanity  would  cry  out  and  all  Christian 
principles  adjudge  condemnation. 

But  war  always  brings  plagues  which  seem  to  find  their  best  breeding 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


17 


places  in  great  groups  of  men  brought  together  in  armed  camps.  We 
may  not  confidently  expect  that  plagues  will  not  break  out  in  Europe, 
nor  that  breaking  out  there,  they  will  not  appear  amongst  us.  I  have 
pointed  this  out  before. 

Our  hazard  will  probably  be  increased  through  our  great  training 
camps,  which  must  also  be  manned  by  a  great  group  of  physicians,  sur- 
geons, and  nurses  that  will  be  taken  from  their  service  to  the  whole 
people. 

We  at  home  owe  it  as  a  duty  to  ourselves,  to  our  country,  and  to 
humanity,  to  keep  ourselves  as  free  from  contagion,  as  fully  healthful, 
as  possible. 

THE  LORD'S  DISEASE-PREVENTIVE  LAW 

The  Lord  has  told  us  how  to  do  this.  Many  have  not  hearkened 
to  His  word,  who  would  not  deny  its  truth ;  others  have  not  believed 
it  was  His  word.  But  God  will  vindicate  His  commands,  by  blessing 
those  who  keep  them,  and  by  permitting  the  ordinary  laws  of  nature  to 
operate,  uncontrolled,  upon  those  who  do  not. 

President  Grant  has  for  half  a  century  been  preaching  the  Word 
of  Wisdom  to  the  people.  If  we  had  followed  his  counsel,  we  could 
now  face  the  future  fearlessly.  If  sickness  and  disease  shall  overtake  us, 
we  shall  then  remember.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that  if  disaster  shall  overtake 
any  of  us,  we  shall  not  be  in  such  a  situation  that  we  must  reproach 
ourselves  for  a  failure  to  live  the  disease-preventive  law  of  the  Lord. 

How  glorious  are  the  blessings  promised  to  those  who  do  keep 
God's  laws : 

And  all  saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking 
in  obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel 
and  marrow  to  their  bones. 

And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures ; 

And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint. 

And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying  angel 
shall  pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them.  (D.  &.  C. 
89:18-21) 

THE  PROMISE 

This  does  not  say  and  this  does  not  mean,  that  to  keep  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  is  to  insure  us  against  death,  for  death  is,  in  the  eternal  plan, 
co-equal  with  birth.  This  is  the  eternal  decree.  But  it  does  mean  that 
the  destroying  angel,  he  who  comes  to  punish  the  unrighteous  for  their 
sins,  as  he  in  olden  time  afflicted  the  corrupt  Egyptians  in  their  wicked- 
ness, shall  pass  by  the  Saints,  who  are  "walking  in  obedience  to  the 
commandments,"  and  who  "remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings." 
These  promises  do  mean  that  all  those  who  qualify  themselves  to  enjoy 
them  will  be  permitted  so  to  live  out  their  lives  that  they  may  gain  the 
full  experiences  and  get  the  full  kowledge  which  they  need  in  order  to 
progress  to  the  highest  exaltation  in  eternity,  all  these  will  live  until 


18  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  5  First  Dag 

their  work  is  finished  and  God  calls  them  back  to  their  eternal  home, 
as  a  reward. 

These  blessings  will  come  to  those  who  qualify  as  sure  and  certain 
as  life  itself. 

Whenever  we  are  inclined  to  appraise  the  dealings  of  God  with 
His  children,  we  should  remember  that  God's  ways  are  not  man's  ways, 
and  that  behind  what  we  see  and  understand,  are  the  all-wise  purposes 
of  an  All-wise  God. 

May  God  bless  us,  preserve  us,  and  help  us  to  keep  His  command- 
ments always,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  congregation  and  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O 
God,  for  a  Prophet." 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  do  not  remember  any  occasion  in  my  life  that  I  have  been  more 
deeply  impressed  with  the  remarks  of  Brother  Clark  than  I  have  been 
today — timely,  wise,  prudent — and  I  wish  that  every  American  citizen 
could  have  heard  them.  When  I  see  this  vast  audience,  knowing  that 
every  soul  here  was  deeply  interested — f  or  I  took  particular  occasion  to 
see  whether  they  were  or  not, — and  I  noticed  there  was  no  restlessness,  I 
am  convinced  beyond  question  of  a  doubt  that  every  word  uttered  re- 
ceived a  hearty  response  in  the  hearts  of  the  people,  and  created  a  spirit 
of  testimony  as  to  the  wonderful  conditions  portrayed  to  us. 

QUOTATIONS  FROM  THE  SCRIPTURES  ON  PRAYER 

I  thought  this  morning  that  I  would  refer  to  Matthew,  sixth  chapter, 
(v.  5-13)  in  which  we  find  the  following: 

And  when  thou  prayest,  thou  shalt  not  be  as  the  hypocrites  are :  for 
they  love  to  pray  standing  in  the  synagogues  and  in  the  corners  of  the 
streets,  that  they  may  be  seen  of  men.  Verily  I  say  unto  you,  they  have 
their  reward. 

But  thou,  when  thou  prayest,  enter  into  thy  closet,  and  when  thou 
hast  shut  thy  door,  pray  to  thy  Father  which  is  in  secret ;  and  thy  Father 
which  seeth  in  secret  shall  reward  thee  openly. 

But  when  ye  pray,  use  not  vain  repetitions  as  the  heathen  do;  for  they 
think  that  they  shall  be  heard  for  their  much  speaking. 

Be  not  ye  therefore  like  unto  them;  for  your  Father  knoweth  what 
things  ye  have  need  of,  before  ye  ask  him. 

After  this  manner  therefore  pray  ye ;  our  Father  which  art  in  heaven, 
hallowed  be  thy  name. 

*  *  *  * 

Ask,  and  it  shall  be  given  you ;  seek,  and  ye  shall  find,  knock,  and  it 
shall  be  opened  unto  you : 

For  every  one  that  asketh  receiveth :  and  he  that  seeketh  findeth ;  and  to 
him  that  knocketh  it  shall  be  opened.   (Matt.  7:7-8) 

All  things  whatsoever  ye  shall  ask  in  prayer,  believing,  ye  shall  receive. 
(Matt.  21 :  22) 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


19 


Therefore  I  say  unto  you,  What  things  soever  ye  desire,  when  ye  pray, 
believe  that  ye  receive  them,  and  ye  shall  have  them. 

And  when  ye  stand  praying,  forgive,  if  ye  have  ought  against  any: 
that  you  Father  also  which  is  in  heaven  may  forgive  your  trespasses. 
(Mark  11:24-25) 

SERVANTS  OF  THE  LORD  BLESSED  THROUGH  PRAYER 

If  you  remember  the  time  when  Peter  was  imprisoned  by  Herod 
who  was  persecuting  the  Church,  and  prayer  was  made  without  ceasing 
by  the  Church  of  God  for  him.  Peter  was  bound  with  chains  and  smitten 
between  two  soldiers,  and  the  keepers  before  the  door  kept  the  prison. 
Behold,  the  angel  of  the  Lord  came  upon  him,  and  a  light  shined  in  the 
prison,  and  he  smote  Peter  on  the  side  and  raised  him  up,  saying,  "Arise 
quickly,"  and  the  chains  fell  off  from  his  hands ;  and  the  angel  said  unto 
him,  "Gird  thyself,  and  bind  on  thy  sandals."  So  he  did,  and  he  said : 
"Cast  thy  garment  about  thee  and  follow  me."  He  went  out  and  followed 
him,  and  he  wist  not  that  it  was  true  which  was  done  by  the  angel;  though 
he  saw  a  vision. 

When  Paul  the  Apostle  was  preaching  to  his  brethren  in  Asiaj  they 
were  very  sick  and  despaired  of  their  lives,  but  the  prayers  of  the  people 
restored  him  to  health  and  strength. 

Have  we  in  this  day  and  age  forgotten  how  to  pray  ?  Are  we  draw- 
ing away  from  our  Father  in  heaven  with  our  hearts  ?  Let  us  remember 
the  passage  in  James,  chapter  1,  verses  5,  6,  7: 

If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God  that  giveth  to  all  men 
liberally,  and  upbraideth  not;  and  it  shall  be  given  him. 

But  let  him  ask  in  faith,  nothing  wavering.  For  he  that  wavereth  is 
like  a  wave  of  the  sea  driven  with  the  wind  and  tossed. 

For  let  not  that  man  think  he  shall  receive  anything  of  the  Lord. 

STORY  OF  A  WOMAN'S  CONVERSION 

I  heard  a  story  of  a  woman,  a  fine  woman  of  good  family,  who  came 
through  pain  to  the  habit  of  drink  and  drugs.  She  fought  against  it  with 
all  the  strength  of  her  strong  will  and  mind,  but  she  could  not  conquer  it. 
She  went  to  a  doctor  and  he  helped  her  for  a  time.  Then  again  she  went 
under.  She  left  her  home  and  country  and  went  alone  to  a  strange  land, 
hoping  a  new  environment  would  put  her  on  her  feet,  but  she  went  down, 
and  still  further  down.  She  met  a  Christian  who  talked  to  her  of  God. 
Her  father  and  mother  were  intellectuals  of  their  country ;  they  had  re- 
jected God.  She  listened  to  the  stranger  who  was  a  Christian,  and  long- 
ed to  believe,  but  she  could  not,  too  deep  was  her  conviction  that  God  is 
only  a  wish  fulfilment  for  weak  people  to  hold  onto. 

One  night  there  was  a  terrific  electric  storm.  She  was  so  frightened 
for  fear  of  the  thunder  and  lightning  that  it  made  her  almost  like  her 
'  nerves  were  shattered.  She  walked  the  floor  in  fear  of  the  terror  of  the 
storm.  Finally  she  fell  upon  her  knees  and  cried  out :  "You !  You !  if 
there  is  a  You !  send  me  a  sign ;  stop  this  storm — stop  it !"  She  crept  back 
into  bed,  shaking  and  sobbing.  The  next  thing  she  knew  it  was  morning ; 


20  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  5  First  Dag 

the  sun  shining,  and  the  birds  were  singing  outside  her  window;  not  a 
cloud  was  in  the  sky.  She  had  the  feeling  as  though  the  world  had  just 
been  made,  and  she  with  it,  new  and  clean ;  life  was  new  and  holy.  There 
was  a  God.  The  woman  who  had  taken  care  of  her  came  to  see  how  she 
had  stood  the  night  through  that  awful  storm ;  all  night  long  it  had  rained. 
She  stared  at  the  woman  unbelieving — the  storm  had  been  stopped — and 
then  a  smile  and  a  light  spread  over  her  face.  Never  in  all  her  life,  not 
even  when  a  child,  had  she  slept  through  a  storm.  There  was  a  God,  and 
He.  answered,  but  in  His  own  way. 

She  was  won  over  instantly,  she  was  cured.  All  desire  for  drink  or 
drugs  had  been  washed  away.  She  became  a  power  for  good  and  gave 
her  whole  life  to  helping  people  find  God. 

MISSIONARIES  SENT  IN  ANSWER  TO  PRAYER 

I  am  thankful  to  my  Father  in  heaven  that  He  has  answered  my 
prayers  and  the  prayers  of  my  mother  who  prayed  for  the  true  Gospel  to 
come  to  her  while  she  was  in  a  foreign  country.  He  sent  the  missionaries 
of  Christ's  church  with  the  truths  of  the  Gospel  to  her  in  answer  to  her 
prayers.  I  am  grateful  that  she  taught  me  how  to  pray  and  to  have  faith 
that  my  prayers  would  be  answered.  St.  John  said : 

And  this  is  the  confidence  that  we  have  in  him,  that,  if  we  ask  anything 
according  to  His  will,  he  heareth  us : 

And  if  we  know  that  He  hear  us,  whatsoever  we  ask,  we  know  that  we 
have  the  petitions  that  we  desired  of  him.  (I  John  5:14-15) 

A  PIONEER  EXPERIENCE 

After  the  pioneers  had  been  here  nearly  two  years  the  harvest  was 
going  to  be  a  bounteous  one,  and  they  were  very  happy  and  thankful  to 
their  Father  in  heaven.  But  myriads  and  myriads  of  black  locusts  swarm- 
ed the  fields,  mowing  down  all  they  could  on  their  onward  march ;  the 
crops  seemed  doomed.  No  food  was  there  to  carry  them  through  the  com- 
ing winter ;  the  nearest  food  was  a  thousand  miles  away,  and  it  could  come 
to  them  only  by  ox-teams.  Famine  itself  came  in  its  form 
over  the  ground.  It  smote  the  hearts  of  brave  men  with  fear;  not  for 
themselves,  but  for  their  wives  and  children,  dearer  to  them  than  life 
itself.  Every  effort  to  stop  the  plague  of  insect  hordes  failed.  Des- 
peration seized  the  people,  and  in  this  hour  of  trial  and  threatened  tragedy 
there  came  to  them  the  faith  that  God  was  their  sole  refuge.  They  prayed 
for  help.  Out  of  the  sky  came  great  winged  clouds  of  gulls.  They  settled 
down  on  the  fields.  At  first  it  looked  like  they  came  to  help  the  crickets 
destroy.  But  their  real  purpose  was  soon  apparent;  they  came  to  prey 
upon  the  destroyers.  All  day  long  they  gorged  themselves,  disgorged, 
and  feasted  again.  The  white  gulls  fell  upon  the  black  crickets  like  hosts 
of  hell  until  the  pests  were  banished  and  the  people  saved.  The  birds  then 
returned  to  the  lake.  Kneeling,  the  grateful  settlers  wept  tears  of  joy  over 
their  temporary  deliverance,  and  thanked  their  God  for  this  answer  to 
their  prayers. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


21 


My  father  passed  through  that  experience.  I  have  heard  him  repeat 
it  to  his  family  many  many  times.  The  first  time  I  heard  it  I  was  a  small 
boy  and  it  is  too  long  for  me  to  tell  the  story  that  he  told  me.  But  I  want 
to  say  to  you  that  there  never  was,  as  I  know  or  have  read  about,  a  divine 
blessing  from  God  when  the  people  had  to  depend  upon  Him  entirely, 
greater  than  on  the  occasion  referred  to. 

Prayer  is  practiced  in  the  Kingdom  of  God.  Part  of  our  prayers 
should  be  devoted  to  our  leaders ;  they  have  great  responsibilities.  Oh,  so 
many  of  the  people  do  not  realize  the  responsibilities  that  fall  upon  the 
President  and  his  Counselors  these  days.  It  has  been  so  from  the  begin- 
ning and  as  long  as  there  is  life  it  will  continue  to  be  so.  Let  us  pray  for 
our  leaders  at  all  times  instead  of  criticizing  them ;  pray  that  they  may  be 
given  courage  to  continue  with  unflagging  zeal  from  year  to  year ;  pray 
for  the  power  of  God  to  be  upon  them. 

FAITH  IN  GOD  SHOWN  BY  GREAT  MEN 

There  is  on  the  Sub-Treasury  building  in  New  York  a  fine  piece  of 
statuary  of  George  Washington  at  Valley  Forge,  kneeling  down  in  pray- 
er in  the  woods.  That  figure  explains  a  great  deal  the  strength  of  Wash- 
ington's life.  It  is  no  accident  that  the  two  greatest  Americans  to  whom 
we  all  look  up  and  most  admire — Washington  and  Lincoln — were  men 
of  prayer  and  men  of  faith  in  God.  Their  strong  belief  in  God  was  the 
rudder  which  guided  the  ship.  Abraham  Lincoln  on  one  occasion  said 
to  his  physician:  "One  rainy  night  I  could  not  sleep.  The  wounds  of  the 
soldiers  and  sailors  disturbed  my  very  bones,  pierced  my  heart,  and  I 
asked  God  to  show  me  how  they  could  have  better  relief.  After  wrestling 
some  time  in  prayer  he  put  the  plans  of  a  sanitary  commission  in  my 
mind  and  they  have  worked  out  pretty  much  as  God  gave  them  to  me 
that  night.  You  ought  to  thank  your  kind  heavenly  Father  and  not  me 
for  the  sanitary  commission." 

Benjamin  Franklin  said:  Conceiving  God  to  be  the  fountain  of 
wisdom,  I  thought  it  right  and  necessary  to  solicit  his  assistance  for  ob- 
taining it ;  to  this  end  I  formed  the  following  little  prayer,  which  was 
prefixed  to  my  tables  of  examination,  for  daily  use : 

O  powerful  Goodness !  bountiful  Father !  merciful  Guide !  Increase  in 
me  that  wisdom  which  discovers  my  truest  interest.  Strengthen  my  resolu- 
tions to  perform  what  that  wisdom  dictates.  Accept  my  kind  offices  to  thy 
other  children  as  the  only  return  in  my  power  for  thy  continual  favours 
to  me. 

William  DeWitt  Hyde  wrote  "A  Boy's  Prayer" ; 

Give  me  clean  hands,  clean  words,  and  clean  thoughts.  Help  me  to 
stand  for  the  hard  right  against  the  easy  wrong.  Save  me  from  habits 
that  harm  me ;  teach  me  to  work  as  hard,  and  play  as  fair  in  thy  sight  alone 
as  if  all  the  world  saw.  Forgive  me  when  I  am  unkind,  and  help  me  to  for- 
give those  who  are  unkind  to  me.  Keep  me  ready  to  help  others  at  some 
cost  to  myself.  Send  me  chances  to  do  a  little  good  every  day,  and  grow- 
more  like  Christ  the  Savior. 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  5  First  Dag 

George  Careless  wrote  the  music  of  one  of  the  most  beautiful  songs 
we  have  in  my  opinion : 

Prayer  is  the  soul's  sincere  desire, 
Uttered  or  unexpressed; 
The  motion  of  a  hidden  fire 
That  trembles  in  the  breast. 

Prayer  is  the  burden  of  a  sigh, 
The  falling  of  a  tear, 
The  upward  glancing  of  an  eye, 
When  none  but  God  is  near. 

Prayer  is  the  simplest  form  of  speech 
That  infant  lips  can  try ; 
Prayer,  the  sublimest  strains  that  reach 
The  Majesty  on  high. 

Prayer  is  the  Christian's  vital  breath, 
The  Christian's  native  air; 
His  watchword  at  the  gates  of  death; 
He  enters  heaven  with  prayer. 

One  who  prays  to  his  Father  in  heaven  will  not  go  far  wrong.  God 
will  be  mindful  of  him.  God  bless  you  all,  and  may  we  not  forget  to  pray, 
I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  might  enjoy  the 
inspiration  of  the  Lord's  Spirit  the  moment  or  two  I  stand  before  you. 

It  seems  that  the  minds  of  some  of  us  run  in  parallel  channels. 
Brother  Smoot  has  addressed  you  on  the  subject  I  had  in  mind. 

BLESSINGS  ENUMERATED 

I  am  very  grateful  for  membership  in  the  Church ;  I  am  grateful  for 
my  forbears  who  made  it  possible,  by  accepting  the  Gospel  in  Europe  and 
coming  to  the  Promised  Land,  for  me  and  mine  to  enjoy  peace  and  plenty. 
I  am  particularly  grateful  for  the  Priesthood  of  God  which  has  been 
restored  in  these  the  last  days,  through  the  instrumentality  of  a  prophet. 
I  have  only  gratitude  in  my  heart  for  the  leadership  in  this  Church,  who 
have  and  are  continuously  advising  and  counseling  people  as  to  their 
spiritual  and  temporal  needs.  This  advice  and  counsel  is  motivated  and 
inspired  from  divine  sources. 

As  parents  a  wonderful  opportunity  is  ours,  particularly  in  that 
everyone  of  our  sons  can  hold  the  Priesthood  of  the  Lord  and  receive 
all  the  blessings  attached  thereto.  The  Priesthood  is  a  shield  against 
temptation;  it  motivates  and  inspires  young  men  to  the  highest  and 
noblest  of  deeds,  and  every  young  man,  whether  he  holds  the  office  of 
Deacon,  Teacher  or  Priest,  is  a  servant  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  In 
accepting  the  Priesthood,  young  men,  in  all  reality,  enter  into  a  contract 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  23 


with  Christ  whereby  they  will  serve  him  faithfully  and  loyally  when 
called  upon  to  do  so  by  those  who  are  in  authority,  and  the  Redeemer 
will  bless  them,  magnify  them,  and  sustain  them  in  their  Priesthood 
work.  All  of  these  young  men  perform  the  various  functions  of  their 
offices  not  in  and  of  themselves  as  individuals,  but,  as  I  have  said,  as 
servants  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  each  one  of  them  being  commissioned 
to  perform  the  duties  of  his  particular  office. 

It  is  a  wonderful  thing  to  contemplate  that  John  the  Baptist,  the 
forerunner  of  the  Redeemer  who  held  the  keys  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood 
in  the  days  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  returned  to  earth,  bestowing  this 
divine  gift  of  authority  upon  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery,  giving 
them  the  right  to  preach  the  Gospel  of  repentance,  to  baptize  for  the 
remission  of  sins,  and  to  enjoy  the  ministering  of  angels. 

OPPORTUNITIES  FOR  BOYS  IN  PRIESTHOOD 

Elbert  Hubbard  declared,  "Be  patient  with  boys.  You  are  dealing 
with  soul  stuff ;  destiny  awaits  just  around  the  corner."  I  am  not  hesitant 
in  declaring  there  are  no  boys  the  world  over  where  destiny  is  awaiting 
around  the  corner  as  it  awaits  with  glorious  opportunities  for  the  young 
men  who  hold  the  Priesthood  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Among  them 
will  be  found  the  leaders  of  tomorrow :  Bishops,  Stake  Presidents  and 
General  Authorities.  With  this  future  lying  ahead  of  our  young  men,  every 
parent  must  realize  his  and  her  responsibility  in  the  task  of  guiding  and 
directing  these  boys  in  thought  and  deed  and  qualification,  in  order  that 
they  shall  be  worthy  and  fully  prepared  to  assume  the  duties  and  obliga- 
tions of  tomorrow. 

May  I  say  to  those  of  our  brethren  who  have  the  honor  and  privilege 
of  associating  with  these  boys  in  their  Priesthood  work,  there  is  no  work 
that  can  bring  a  higher  degree  of  pleasure  and  satisfaction.  Only  a 
little  time  is  required  to  get  the  confidence  of  a  boy,  and  there  is  no  con- 
fidence that  is  more  implicit,  and  no  friendship  more  loyal  and  devoted 
than  that  of  a  boy. 

STORY  OF  A  BISHOP'S  SUCCESS 

There  was  once  a  Bishop  who  had  the  high  honor  of  ordaining  26 
young  men  to  the  office  of  Deacon.  The  experience  of  ordaining  so 
many  young  men  made  a  deep  impression  on  his  mind,  and  he  asked 
himself  the  question,  "What  obligations  have  I  assumed  now  as  the 
Bishop  of  this  Ward  in  bestowing  this  Priesthood  upon  these  young 
men?"  And  after  careful  and  prayerful  thought  he  arrived  at  the  con- 
clusion, there  rested  upon  him  and  his  two  associates  in  the  Bishopric,  the 
responsibility  of  so  guiding  and  directing  the  activities  of  these  Deacons 
that  when  the  time  should  arrive  for  advancement  each  and  every  one  of 
them  would  be  worthy  and  fully  qualified  to  receive  the  office  of  a  Teach- 
er. 

The  first  step  in  this  program  was  to  get  the  confidence  of  these 
young  men.  They  were  encouraged  to  present  their  problems  to  the 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  5  First  Day 

Bishopric;  problems  of  work,  school  problems,  and  the  multiplicity  of 
problems  that  boys  of  this  age  generally  have.  The  boys  responded,  and 
these  three  magnificent  men  were  always  willing  and  prepared  to  render 
counsel  and  advice.  Social  activities  were  encouraged,  the  homes  of  the 
Bishopric,  were  frequented  by  the  boys.  Eventually  these  young  men  were 
ordained  Teachers,  and  later  the  office  of  Priest  was  bestowed  upon 
them.  Eventually  the  day  arrived  when  the  young  men  reached  the  age  of 
prospective  missionaries.  All  of  them  were  called ;  twenty-five  responded, 
the  other  one  having  a  physical  ailment  which  prevented  him  from  accept- 
ing a  call.  These  young  men  were  ordained  Elders,  went  out  in  the  world, 
and  with  the  authority  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  preached  His  plan  of 
salvation  with  vigor  and  force.  These  young  men  were  honorably  released, 
returned  home,  and  all  of  them  are  now  married  and  rearing  fine  Latter- 
day  Saint  families.  In  addition  to  this  they  are  considered  among  the 
outstanding  citizens  of  their  communities.  I  am  sure  you  will  agree  with 
me  that  this  is  an  outstanding  achievement.  And  why?  Simply  because 
three  men  took  a  little  interest  in  some  boys.  The  achievement  of  these 
good  brethren  can  be  the  blessing  and  accomplishment  of  any  one  man  or 
group  of  men  that  will  manifest  interest  in  the  young  men  of  the  Church. 

a  boy's  prayer  answered 

I  was  deeply  impressed  by  Brother  Smoot's  address  on  prayer. 
May  I  say  there  was  never  a  time  in  all  history  when  the  habit  of  praying 
should  be  encouraged  as  now.  Young  men  who  hold  the  Priesthood  of 
God  are  more  inclined  to  call  upon  Him  for  assistance  than  the  young 
men  who  have  failed  to  receive  the  glorious  blessings  of  the  Priesthood. 
I  recall  an  instance  that  occurred  during  the  darkest  days  of  the  depres- 
sion. 

There  was  a  poor  widow  and  her  family  struggling  against  great 
odds  to  sustain  and  maintain  themselves.  In  this  family  group  the  oldest 
child  was  an  18  year  old  son  who  was  deeply  touched  because  of  the 
family  situation  and  the  terrific  struggle  his  Mother  was  having  in 
solving  their  economic  problems.  One  day  he  declared  to  her,  "Mother, 
if  you  will  permit  me  to  go  to  California  I  can  secure  employment  and  at 
least  render  some  small  assistance  to  you."  The  mother  replied  and  said, 
"Son,  permit  me  to  think  this  over  for  a  day  or  two."  After  two  or  three 
days  she  called  her  son  to  her  side  and  said,  "I  give  you  my  consent ; 
you  may  go  to  California  upon  one  condition,  and  the  condition  is  that 
you  will  always  pray  as  you  know  we  have  prayed  in  this  home  morning 
and  night,  and  although  we  have  had  our  problems,  the  Lord  has  blessed 
us  and  assisted  us  in  many  ways." 

With  his  mother's  permission,  this  young  man  gathered  his  few 
clothes  in  a  bundle,  took  some  food  and  water,  and  went  on  his  way.  He 
had  planned  to  secure  a  ride  across  the  barren  wastes  of  the  American 
desert  from  some  passing  motorist,  but  during  these  dark  days  of  the 
depression  very  few  people  were  traveling,  and  consequently  he  trudged 
for  two  days  over  the  desert,  at  the  end  of  which  time  an  inventory  of  his 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


25 


food  and  water  indicated  that  unless  someone  picked  him  up  he  would 
soon  find  himself  in  a  very  precarious  situation,  and  in  addition  his  shoes 
were  about  worn  out. 

As  he  analyzed  his  condition  there  came  back  to  him  with  a  flash 
the  advice  of  his  mother — to  pray  regardless  of  where  he  might  be. 
Looking  up  he  saw  in  the  distance  a  building,  which  proved  to  be  a 
deserted  service  station.  Standing  by  it  was  a  dilapidated  bill  board.  Ar- 
riving at  the  old  building  he  went  around  to  the  rear  of  the  billboard, 
knelt  down  and  poured  out  his  soul  to  the  Lord,  telling  Him  that  unless 
someone  came  to  deliver  him,  the  possibilities  were  that  he  would  perish. 

That  day  a  friend  of  mine  was  traveling  across  the  desert,  his  des- 
tination a  large  city  in  California  where  a  convention  of  his  company  was 
to  be  held.  As  he  sped  across  the  desert  he  was  cognizant  of  the  fact  that 
he  had  passed  an  old  deserted  service  station.  Going  on  for  some  distance 
the  impression  came  to  him  which  seemed  to  convey  the  message  that  he 
should  turn  around  and  go  back.  At  first  he  thought  little  of  it,  but  the 
impression  came  the  second  time  stronger  than  before.  Finally  he  turned 
to  his  wife  and  said,  "Mother,  I  have  had  two  rather  peculiar  experiences. 
Something  tells  me  we  should  turn  around.  Do  you  know  of  any  reason 
why  we  should  ?"  She  replied,  "No,  but  if  you  have  had  an  impression  I 
suggest  that  you  turn  around."  He  turned  his  car  around  in  the  middle 
of  the  desert,  and  upon  approaching  the  old  deserted  service  station  and 
the  dilapidated  billboard,  was  hailed  by  the  boy.  The  good  man  stopped 
and  the  boy  asked  if  he  might  have  a  ride.  Of  course  the  reply  was  "yes." 

The  man,  his  wife  and  the  boy  again  started  on  their  way  toward 
California.  Naturally  the  boy  and  the  man  became  very  friendly,  the 
boy  declared  to  the  man,  "You  are  an  answer  to  my  prayer.  I  had 
neither  water  nor  food,  my  shoes  are  worn  out,  and  I  knew  that  in  and 
of  myself  I  could  do  nothing,  and  so  I  went  back  of  the  billboard  and 
asked  the  Lord  that  someone  be  sent  to  deliver  me."  The  full  significance 
of  the  impressions  that  the  man  had  experienced  now  dawned  upon  him, 
and  with  a  tear  in  his  eye  he  said,  "Yes,  son,  I  know  that  I  am  an  answer 
to  your  prayers." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  in  this  great  Church  many  of  our  boys  and 
girls  could  well  afford  to  follow  the  example  of  this  young  man  in 
being  prayerful,  and  without  doubt  the  Lord  will  hear  and  answer  their 
prayers.  We  should  teach  them  to  pray ;  teach  them  to  be  loyal  to  the 
leadership  of  this  Church  and  particularly  to  follow  the  admonitions  of 
the  men  who  have  been  selected  and  appointed  by  the  Lord  to  guide  and 
direct  the  destiny  of  this  people.  I  challenge  anyone  to  point  out  one 
instance  where  the  President  or  his  counselors  or  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve  have  ever  given  any  advice  but  what  it  was  for  the  good  and 
benefit  of  the  people. 

THE  AUTHORITY  TO  BAPTIZE 

As  parents  we  should  impress  upon  our  young  people  that  as  servants 
of  God  they  act  in  their  Priesthood  capacities  because  the  authority  they 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  5  First  Day 

hold  has  been  restored  to  earth  from  a  divine  source.  Teach  them  that  the 
Priesthood  is  the  divine  right  bestowed  upon  men  whereby  they  act  as 
His  servants  and  agents  in  performing  the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  and 
in  building  up  the  kingdom.  This  thought  was  impressively  demonstrated 
to  me  while  laboring  as  a  missionary  in  the  State  of  Missouri.  A  lady 
presented  herself  to  my  companion  and  I,  applying  for  baptism.  The  time 
appointed  was  a  Sunday  afternoon  on  the  banks  of  the  Spring  River, 
outside  of  Carthage,  Missouri.  Upon  arriving  at  the  appointed  place  we 
discovered  that  another  minister  and  his  group  had  preceded  us,  and  the 
ordinance  of  baptism  was  being  performed. 

We  listened  with  a  good  deal  of  attention  and  interest  to  the  baptis- 
mal prayer  uttered  by  the  minister.  These  were  his  words :  "Under  the 
great  commission  I  baptize  you  in  the  name  of  the  Father  and  the  Son 
and  the  Holy  Ghost,  Amen."  The  term  "Under  the  Great  Commission" 
stimulated  some  thought  on  my  part.  Returning  to  our  room  we  opened 
our  Bibles  to  see  if  we  could  discover  what  the  minister  presumed  to 
call  "The  Great  Commission."  We  found  in  the  last  few  verses  of  the 
last  chapter  of  the  book  of  Matthew  what  is  commonly  known  as  "the 
Great  Commission."  As  you  will  recall,  the  Savior  was  bidding  farewell 
to  his  disciples  for  the  last  time,  admonishing "  them  in  the  following 
words,  "Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  nations,  baptizing  them  in  the  name 
of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost :  Teaching  them  to 
observe  all  things  whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you:  and,  lo,  I  am 
with  you  alway,  even  unto  the  end  of  the  world." 

These  verses  the  Lord  spoke  but  to  eleven  men,  commissioning 
them  to  go  into  the  world  preaching  the  Gospel  of  repentance  and  per- 
forming the  ordinance  of  baptism  for  the  remission  of  sins.  Consequently 
he  did  not  designate  anyone  who  might  have  the  desire  to  preach  or 
baptize,  which  brings  forcibly  to  mind  the  words  of  the  Apostle  Paul  when 
he  declared,  "And  no  man  taketh  this  honor  unto  himself  but  he  that 
is  called  of  God  as  was  Aaron." 

What  a  glorious  thought  it  is  to  contemplate  that  the  Priests  of 
the  restored  Church  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  have  been  called  as  Aaron 
to  perform  the  ordinance  of  baptism  or  any  other  Aaronic  Priesthood 
duty  because  of  divine  light.  The  young  men  who  perform  the  ordinance 
of  baptism  under  no  condition  or  consideration  ever  have  to  beg  the 
question  of  authority,  using  such  terms  as  "Under  the  Great  Commission." 
But  they  declare  emphatically  and  with  full  knowledge,  "Having  been 
commissioned  of  Jesus  Christ,  I  baptize  you  in  the  name  of  the  Father 
and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  Amen."  And  may  I  add  they  are 
the  only  group  in  the  world  who  have  the  right  to  declare  "having  been 
commissioned  of  Jesus  Christ." 

SERVICE  BRINGS  ITS  REWARD 

I  humbly  pray  that  the  Lord  of  Israel  will  bless,  guide  and  direct 
us  in  our  responsibilities  of  leading  the  youth  of  Zion  in  paths  of  right- 
eousness. When  the  day  of  responsibility  comes,  they  will  be  willing, 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


27 


qualified  and  worthy  to  serve  in  any  capacity.  Such  service  will  bring  to 
them  the  greatest  of  heavenly  rewards,  a  reward  that  cannot  be  stayed  by 
the  hand  of  man  or  the  evil  one,  a  reward  predicated  on  obedience  to 
the  Lord,  for  He  always  keeps  His  promises  and  rewards  them  that  serve 
Him. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  declared,  "For  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the 
obtaining  these  two  Priesthoods  of  which  I  have  spoken,  and  the  magni- 
fying of  their  calling,  are  sanctified  by  the  Spirit  unto  the  renewing  of 
their  bodies. 

"They  become  the  sons  of  Moses  and  of  Aaron  and  the  seed  of 
Abraham,  and  the  Church  and  Kingdom,  and  the  elect  of  God." 

May  I  earnestly  suggest  to  you,  there  is  nothing  in  this  world  that 
is  of  greater  value  than  to  achieve  a  place  in  the  Celestial  kingdom, 
wherein  your  sons  and  daughters  may  become  the  very  elect  of  God,  which 
I  pray  will  be  the  blessing  of  everyone  of  them,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

The  Singing  Mothers  sang  the  anthem,  "Holy  Art  Thou,"  Sister 
Ruth  Jensen  Clawson,  soloist,  Sister  Olive  F.  Rich  directed  the  singing. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

I  would  like  to  repeat  my  slogan  of  last  Conference :  Brethren  and 
sisters,  "Drive  carefully."  There  is  no  reason  why  we  should  have  a 
tragedy  of  death  at  almost  every  Conference  which  we  hold.  Brothers 
and  sisters,  if  you  will  just  take  a  little  more  time  to  get  home  or  to  get 
here,  we  will  excuse  you  for  being  late  at  the  meetings  if  you  do  so, 
and  then  we  will  not  have  these  tragedies. 

Elder  Joseph  T.  Finlinson,  President  of  the  Deseret  Stake,  offered 
the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  second  session  convened  promptly  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  Friday, 
October  5. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

The  time  has  come  to  begin  our  afternoon  session.  We  are  again 
blessed  with  the  presence  of  President  Grant,  who  is  presiding  at  this 
meeting,  and  who  has  again  requested  that  I  conduct  the  services. 

The  music  this  afternoon  will  be  furnished  by  the  Singing  Mothers 
of  the  Bonneville,  Cottonwood,  Emigration,  Ensign,  Highland,  and 
Wells  Stakes.  They  will  sing  under  the  direction  of  Sisters  Meryl  T. 
Cardall,  Permilla  Bean,  and  Nellie  N.  Bennion. 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  5  First  Day 

Congregational  singing  will  be  under  the  direction  of  Elder  Richard 
P.  Condie.  The  organist  is  Dr.  Frank  W.  Asper. 

The  Chorus  and  congregation  sang  "High  on  the  Mountain  Top." 

Elder  Jesse  W.  Richins,  President  of  the  Twin  Falls  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  Singing  Mothers  sang  Brahm's  "Cradle  Song,"  Sister  Meryl 
T.  Cardall  directing. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

SUSTAINING  THE  AUTHORITIES 

We  shall  now  sustain  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church. 

For  the  benefit  of  those  in  the  audience  and  those  listening  on  the 
air,  who  may  not  understand  this  proceeding,  I  will  make  the  following 
brief  statement. 

CHURCH  OFFICERS  SUSTAINED  BY  ASSEMBLY 

In  this  Church  all  the  General  Authorities  and  other  Church-wide 
officers  are  "sustained", — in  a  certain  sense,  "elected" — by  the  body  of 
the  Church  in  a  General  Conference,  which  is,  speaking  politically,  a 
constituent  assembly. 

NOMINATING  POWER  RESTS  WITH  PRESIDENT 

In  this  Church,  the  power  of  "nominating"  or  calling  to  office,  is 
not  in  the  body  of  the  Church.  This  power  is  vested  in  the  General  Au- 
thorities of  the  Church,  and  in  final  analysis  in  the  President  of  the 
Church  who  comes  to  his  place  under  the  guidance  of  inspired  revela- 
tion. As  a  matter  of  fact,  as  our  Articles  of  Faith — more  or  less  the 
equivalent  of  the  creeds  of  other  Churches — declare : 

"We  believe  that  a  man  must  be  called  of  God,  by  prophecy,  and  by 
the  laying  on  of  hands,  by  those  who  are  in  authority  to  preach  the  Gospel 
and  administer  in  the  ordinances  thereof." 

When  the  presiding  authority  has  so  "nominated"  or  chosen,  or 
called  any  man  to  office,  that  man  is  then  presented  to  the  body  of  the 
Church  to  be  sustained,  in  political  language  "elected." 

Thus  the  body  of  the  Church  has  no  calling  or  "nominating"  power, 
but  only  the  sustaining,  or  politically  speaking,  the  "electing"  power. 

When  the  presiding  authority  presents  any  man  to  the  body  of  the 
Church  to  be  sustained,  the  only  power  which  the  assembly  has  is  to  vote, 
by  uplifted  hand,  either  to  sustain  or  not  to  sustain. 

MEMBERS  CANNOT  PROPOSE  MEN  FOR  OFFICE 

Obviously,  neither  the  body  of  the  Church,  nor  any  of  its  members, 
can  propose  that  other  men  be  called  to  office,  for  the  calling  of  men  is 
the  sole  power  and  function  of  the  presiding  authority. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


29 


Therefore  all  debate,  all  proposals  of  other  names,  all  discussions  of 
merit  and  worthiness,  are  wholly  out  of  order  in  such  an  assemblage.  Any 
person  attempting  so  to  interrupt  the  proceedings  would  be  a  disturber 
of  the  public  peace,  amenable  to  the  ordinary  peace  officers  of  the  law 
and  would  of  course  be  so  dealt  with. 


I  ought  to  say  that  any  person  having  any  charge  to  make  against  any 
officer  of  the  Church  can  do  so  before  the  regular  Church  tribunals  es- 
tablished for  that  very  purpose  of  affording  means  of  carrying  out  the 
discipline  of  the  Church.  But  this  sustaining,  constituent  assemblage  of 
the  Church  is  not  such  a  tribunal. 

We  shall  now  proceed  to  propose  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church  for  the  sustaining  vote  of  this  great  body  of  Priesthood  and 
Church  membership. 

This  is  a  solemn  ceremony.  You  members  of  the  Priesthood  are  ex- 
ercising one  of  your  greatest  privileges  and  highest  prerogatives. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

President  Clark  then  presented  for  the  vote  of  the  Conference  the 
General  Authorities  and  General  Officers  of  the  Church,  also  the  General 
Auxiliary  Officers,  and  they  were  sustained  by  unanimous  vote  of  the 
congregation,  as  follows : 


Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 


CHARGES  TO  BE  PREFERRED  IN  REGULAR  WAY 


FIRST  PRESIDENCY 


Rudger  Clawson 


COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 


Rudger  Clawson 
Reed  Smoot 


Richard  R.  Lyman 


Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Stephen  L  Richards 


George  Albert  Smith 
George  F.  Richards 


John  A.  Widtsoe 
Joseph  F.  Merrill 
Charles  A.  Callis 
Albert  E.  Bowen 


Sylvester  Q.  Cannon 


ACTING  PATRIARCH  TO  THE  CHURCH 


George  F.  Richards 


The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and 
the  Acting  Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 


30 

Friday,  October  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

TRUSTEE  IN  TRUST 


First  Day 


Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee  in  Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

THE  FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  SEVENTY 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Samuel  O.  Bennion 

Levi  Edgar  Young  John  H.  Taylor 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Rufus  K.  Hardy 

Richard  L.  Evans 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop 
Marvin  O.  Ashton,  First  Counselor 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Second  Counselor 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants :  Andrew 
Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 


CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  Richard  R.  Lyman 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  John  A.  Widtsoe 

David  O.  McKay  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Rudger  Clawson  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Charles  A.  Callis 

Stephen  L  Richards  Franklin  L.  West 
Albert  E.  Bowen 


COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 


Franklin  L.  West 


SEMINARY  SUPERVISER 

M.  Lynn  Bennion 

AUDITING  AND  FINANCE  COMMITTEE 

Orval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Harold  H.  Bennett  • 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President;  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor; 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  31 

ORGANISTS 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Wade  N.  Stephens,  Assistant 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 

ADVISERS 

John  A.  Widtsoe  LeGrand  Richards 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Marvin  O.  Ashton 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

John  H.  Taylor 

General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

GENERAL  COMMITTEE 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 
Robert  L.  Judd,  Vice-Chairman 
Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 
Mark  Austin  Sterling  H.  Nelson 

Campbell  M.  Brown  William  E.  Ryberg 

Clyde  C.  Edmunds  Stringham  A.  Stevens 

J.  Frank  Ward 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMEN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Amy  Brown  Lyman,  President 
Marcia  K.  Howells,  First  Counselor 
Donna  D.  Sorensen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

George  D.  Pyper,  General  Superintendent 
Milton  Bennion,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Q.  Morris,  General  Superintendent 
Joseph  J.  Cannon,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Burton  K.  Farnsworth,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

YOUNG  WOMEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  President 
Helen  Spencer  Williams,  First  Counselor 
Verna  W.  Goddard,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 


32  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  4 


First  Day 


PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Green  Hinckley,  Superintendent 
Adele  Cannon  Howells,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Janet  Murdoch  Thompson,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 


At  the  conclusion  of  the  foregoing  presentation  and  voting,  Presi- 
dent Clark  announced  that  the  voting  had,  been  unanimous  in  the 
affirmative. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

The  morning  breaks,  the  shadows  flee ; 
Lo!  Zion's  standard  is  unfurled. 
The  dawning  of  a  brighter  day- 
Majestic  rises  on  the  world. 

A  HIGH  OBJECTIVE  GIVEN 

I  can  think  of  nothing  more  expressive  of  the  joy  and  gladness  which 
came  to  our  forebears  as  they  contemplated  the  value  and  extent  of  this 
great  work  which  we  have  the  honor  now  to  represent.  We  are  engaged 
in  a  great  and  glorious  enterprise, — the  establishment  of  God's  kingdom 
in  the  earth.  I  know  nothing  which  is  calculated  more  to  keep  our 
thinking  right  and  our  devotion  firm  than  to  keep  that  transcendent 
mission  of  the  Church  ever  present  in  our  minds. 

When  I  contemplate  this  high  objective  which  is  given  to  our  people 
I  recognize  the  need  of  applying  our  energy,  our  devotion,  and  our  love 
to  the  accomplishment  of  this  outstanding  task,  and  I  am  almost  over- 
whelmed at  times  with  the  tremendous  responsibility,  the  obligation,  and 
the  opportunities  which  are  entailed.  I  know  nothing  that  would  more 
help  us  to  discharge  this  responsibility  than  to  live  in  accordance  with 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ. 

A  CONCLUSION  REACHED  BY  PRESIDENT  GRANT 

I  recall  that  some  months  ago — maybe  it  has  been  a  year  or  more 
now — President  Grant  one  morning  came  into  our  temple  meeting  and 
said  in  substance  this:  "Brethren,  I  have  been  thinking  for  a  long  time 
what  I  could  best  do  in  the  closing  years  of  my  administration  to  advance 
the  work  of  God  and  bless  the  people,"  and  he  said :  "I  have  reached 
this  conclusion  that  there  is  nothing  I  can  better  do  than  to  persuade 
the  people  simply  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God."  We  all  agreed 
with  him,  and  upon  reflection  I  think  that  all  will  concur  that  that  is  the 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


33 


best  and  most  effective  thing  that  we  can  do  for  the  advancement  of 
the  great  cause  we  represent. 

THE  SOVEREIGNTY  OF  CHRIST  MUST  BE  ACKNOWLEDGED 

In  order  that  we  may  better  keep  the  commandments  I  am  persuaded 
that  there  must  ever  be  stored  in  our  hearts  a  deep  and  abiding  love  for 
our  Savior  Jesus  Christ,  who  is  the  King  of  this  earth,  who  is  at  the  head 
of  the  Kingdom  of  God,  and  whose  humble  servants  we  are.  We  worship 
Jesus  Christ  as  the  divine  Son  of  our  Eternal  Father.  We  are  committed 
to  the  great  philosophy  of  faith  which  He  gave  to  the  world. 

We  are  not  inclined,  for  which  I  am  grateful,  to  worship  merely 
His  attributes,  however  desirable  they  may  seem  to  us.  We  do  not 
deny  the  sovereignty  of  the  King  Himself.  In  my  humble  judgment 
one  of  the  reasons  why  the  Christian  faith  has  not  made  more  progress 
in  the  world  and  has  not  more  effectively  influenced  the  life  and  the 
conduct  of  men  and  of  nations  lies  in  the  fact  that  men  have  not,  deep 
in  their  hearts,  acknowledged  the  sovereignty  and  the  Lordship  of  Jesus 
Christ.  It  is  true  that  many  of  them  have  advocated  His  philosophy  of 
life ;  they  have  admired  His  great  altruistic  sayings,  and  the  policy  of  the 
good  neighbor,  the  friendship  He  has  taught,  His  kindness,  His  mercy, 
but  they  have  refrained  from  acknowledging  Him  as  the  divine  Ruler 
with  power  to  order  our  lives  and  provide  for  us  the  one  true  way  by 
which  we  can  best  serve  Him,  establish  His  kingdom  in  the  earth  and 
win  our  way  back  into  His  presence. 

THE  POWER  OF  GOD  IS  WITH  HIS  CHURCH 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  realize  that  it  seems  indelicate  and 
presumptuous  to  some  of  our  friends  to  make  the  declaration  that  here 
and  here  alone  in  all  this  wide  world  is  to  be  found  the  true  commission 
coming  from  Jesus  Christ  to  His  servants ;  that  here  only  is  set  up  the 
Church  which  is  the  foundation  of  the  Kingdom,  in  the  extension  of 
which  is  to  be  realized  our  Father's  purposes  for  the  redemption  and 
blessing  of  all  mankind.  I  am  aware  that  that  statement  does  seem 
presumptuous,  and  I  make  it  only  because  I  am  constrained  to  do  so 
by  the  revelations  that  have  come  from  God,  and  by  the  deep-seated 
conviction  that  I  have  that  every  word  of  it  is  true ;  that  the  holy  Priest- 
hood which  has  been  given  to  men  in  this  dispensation  is  the  authentic, 
veritable  power  of  God,  that  it  came  from  divine  source,  and  that  they 
who  first  received  it  have  given  a  true  accounting  of  their  heavenly 
experience  in  its  bestowal. 

I  recognize  the  fact  that  most  of  us  men  are  weak  and  frail  individ- 
uals, and  it  may  seem  to  our  friends  of  the  world  that  we  are  scarcely 
worthy  or  capable  to  exercise  the  functions  of  this  divine  power.  I 
myself  feel  weak  as  I  contemplate  this  investiture  of  power,  and  I  con- 
stantly pray  that  God  will  give  me  more  strength  and  more  wisdom  and 
discernment  in  the  exercise  of  the  functions  of  the  holy  Priesthood.  I 
do  know,  however,  that  God  will  qualify  those  who  truly  keep  His 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  4  First  Dag 

commandments  and  in  whose  hearts  is  an  abiding  love  and  a  resolution 
to  cherish  this  great  and  holy  power  that  God  has  given  to  us.  That 
power  is  needed  in  the  world  today.  Thank  the  Lord  that  it  is  here  to 
speak  to  the  children  of  men.  While  they  may  not  listen  to  it  nor  heed 
it,  as  coming  from  divine  sources,  there  will  come  a  time  when  men 
will  recognize  its  authority  and  its  import  in  the  direction  of  the  affairs 
of  this  world. 

THE  LORD  MAGNIFIES  HIS  SERVANTS 

I  am  not  discouraged  because  I  recognize  that  our  numbers  are  still 
relatively  small.  Some  one  has  said  that  there  is  but  one  Latter-day 
Saint  to  every  ten  thousand  in  the  population  of  the  world.  It  would  seem 
an  almost  impossible  task  to  disseminate  the  principles  of  truth  with  such 
a  minority.  But  I  remember  that  old  saying  that  "God  and  one  man  are  a 
majority"  and  I  have  confidence  to  state  that  if  we  keep  ourselves  in 
line  with  our  duties;  if  we  fully  live  these  principles  of  the  truth  that 
we  are  charged  to  teach,  God  will  give  us  power,  He  will  magnify  our 
work,  He  will  make  our  messages  reach  into  the  far  corners  of  the  earth. 
He  will  sustain  His  own. 

I  recognize  too  that  in  our  weakness  and  frailty  we  are  not  able  to 
carry  forward  the  work  as  expeditiously  as  we  might  like.  I  believe 
that  every  delinquent  man  who  holds  this  Priesthood  retards  the  progress 
of  God's  work.  I  wish  it  were  possible  to  appeal  to  these  thousands  of 
men  who  have  received  this  divine  commission  to  mend  their  ways.  I 
am  convinced  that  they  who  will  not  use  and  magnify  this  Priesthood 
will  in  the  end  lose  it.  I  am  satisfied  in  my  own  heart  that  this  power 
was  given  to  us  for  service.  I  interpret  it  in  terms  of  service  ;  I  am  sure 
that  the  mere  ordination  is  not  sufficient,  and  only  those  will  be  ultimately 
chosen  who  make  their  lives  conform  to  the  principles  upon  which  the 
Priesthood  is  founded.  Then  they  will  be  vessels  through  which  the 
Spirit  of  Almighty  God  may  come  to  His  children  here  in  this  earth. 

REPENTANCE  A  SAVING  PRINCIPLE 

I  trust  that  those  who  have  been  thoughtless,  careless,  and  neglectful 
may  repent  of  their  ways.  I  deem  it  a  great  disaster  for  men  who  have 
had  hands  laid  upon  their  heads  in  ordination  to  this  divine  power  to 
forsake  it.  We  hold  out  the  hand  of  friendship  and  brotherhood  and 
kindness  and  mercy  and  the  principle  of  repentance  and  forgiveness 
to  those  who  will  repent. 

Of  all  the  principles  announced  by  our  Savior,  none  has  ever  found 
a  higher  place  in  my  affections  than  the  principle  of  repentance  and 
forgiveness.  It  seems  that  this  kind  and  merciful  provision  of  the  Gospel 
is  more  adapted  to  human  weakness  than  almost  any  other.  I  trust  that 
our  officers  and  all  of  us  shall  show  the  spirit  of  forgiveness  and  kindness 
towards  those  who  do  repent.  I  know  of  no  parable  that  breathes  more 
the  true  spirit  of  Christ  than  the  parable  the  Savior  told  of  the  prodigal 
son,  and  I  have  always  felt  that  he  told  the  parable  for  the  benefit  of 
the  father  even  more  than  for  the  benefit  of  the  children. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


35 


He  had  that  wayward  Son  take  from  his  father  his  heritage,  his 
patrimony,  and  waste  it,  and  go  away  from  his  home,  to  spend  that  which 
had  been  given  him  in  dissipation  and  riotous  living,  violating  all  the  laws 
of  his  father's  household,  committing  every  sin  in  the  category,  and  then, 
in  the  story,  the  boy  was  subjected  to  the  utmost  misery  in  penitence  for 
his  wrong-doing.  After  he  had  spent  his  wherewithal  and  was  reduced 
to  starvation,  he  was  required  to  beg  work  from  a  friend  he  had  known 
in  his  better  days,  sent  to  his  estate;  and,  finally  he  came  to  that  ig- 
nominious position  of  swineherd,  a  keeper  of  the  hogs.  We  are  told  that 
so  abject  was  his  degradation  that  he  was  forced  to  eat  the  husks  with 
the  hogs  which  he  fed.  And  then  the  spirit  of  repentance  came  over 
him  and  he  recognized  his  great  wrong,  and  he  cried  out  to  heaven, 
"I  am  no  more  worthy  to  be  my  father's  son,"  and  he  pleaded  for  for- 
giveness. Making  a  resolution  founded  upon  his  penitence  he  found  his 
way  sorrowfully  back  to  his  father's  home.  Under  the  old  Jewish  law 
the  father'  would  have  turned  him  out,  but  the  Savior  vested  the  father 
with  a  divine  love,  and  when  he  saw  his  wayward  son  return  in  penitence 
he  went  forth  to  meet  him.  He  raised  him  up  and  clasped  him  in  his 
arms,  and  called  forth  to  his  servants  to  bring  a  robe  and  put  on  him 
and  to  bring  a  ring  and  put  on  his  finger,  which  was  the  symbol  of  his 
restoration  to  his  father's  household,  and  cried  out,  "Bring  hither  the 
fatted  calf,  and  kill  it,  and  let  us  eat  and  be  merry,  for  this  my  son  was 
dead,  and  is  alive  again.    He  was  lost,  and  is  found." 

That  is  the  way  in  which  the  Savior  brought  the  spirit  of  repentance 
and  forgiveness,  and  it  becomes  us,  members  of  His  Church,  to  carry  that 
spirit  in  our  hearts,  and  to  exercise  it  toward  our  brethren  and  our  sisters. 
To  those  who  have  made  mistakes  we  hold  out  this  glorious  principle  of 
repentance — come  back,  forsake  your  sins,  and  be  received  into  the 
household  of  faith  and  the  brotherhood  of  the  Priesthood. 

JOY  THROUGH  FORGIVENESS 

I  have  never  seen  happier  people  than  those  who  have  repented. 
I  remember  one  time — I  do  not  know  whether  the  President  will  re- 
member it — taking  a  young  man  to  President  Grant,  a  young  man  who 
had  made  a  grievous  error,  heartsick  and  broken  he  was  about  it,  and  he 
said  to  me,  "Do  you  think  I  could  ever  be  forgiven." 

I  said :  "I  will  take  you  to  the  President." 

We  went  to  the  President,  and  the  President  became  convinced 
that  he  had  truly  repented,  and  he  forgave  him.  Of  all  the  joy  and 
happiness  that  I  have  ever  seen  written  on  a  human  countenance  I  think 
I  saw  the  utmost  on  the  face  of  that  youth  as  he  appreciated  this  gift  of 
repentance  and  forgiveness. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  know  the  great  purpose  of  our 
Church.  We  know  of  the  need  of  its  glorious  principles  in  this  sad  and 
torn  world.  God  help  us  to  live,  so  to  keep  the  commandments,  so  to 
have  the  spirit  of  Christ,  that  we  may  establish  His  mighty  work  in  the 
world,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Fridzy,  October  4  First  Day 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  have  certainly  been  interested,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  you 
have  been,  in  the  very  splendid  remarks  and  counsel  that  have  come  to 
us  so  early  in  our  Conference. 

ADMONITION  TO  PROVE  ALL  THINGS 

The  other  day  I  was  reading  the  words  of  Paul  where  he  gave  us 
the  admonition  to  "prove  all  things,  and  to  hold  fast  to  that  which  is 
good." 

When  I  was  a  young  boy  my  Sunday  School  teacher  gave  us  this 
information.  He  said,  "The  flies  are  God's  scavengers.  You  have  noticed 
that  just  outside  of  the  kitchen  door  the  flies  collect  around  the  dishwater 
and  other  materials  that  may  be  thrown  onto  the  lot  and  if  it  weren't 
for  the  flies  eating  up  the  waste  material,  we  would  all  get  sick."  Of 
course  this  information  was  undoubtedly  as  good  as  could  be  had  by 
him,  or  perhaps  others,  in  regard  to  this  matter.  The  fact  that  this  had 
been  told  to  us  in  Sunday  School  and  by  a  man  we  all  very  much  loved 
was  no  indication  that  the  thing  was  right.  Later  in  life  we  found  that 
we  could  not  hold  fast  to  it  because  newly  discovered  evidence  had  proved 
it  untrue. 

If  we  follow  the  admonition  of  Paul  and  put  sufficient  time  into 
proving  all  things  we  will  be  able  to  find  the  things  to  which  we  should 
hold  fast.  In  the  various  scientific  fields  this  has  been  followed  exten- 
sively, and  it  is  the  only  method  that  can  be  followed  in  order  to  arrive 
at  the  truth.  I  have  this  thought  in  mind :  that  we  are  very  much  con- 
cerned and  we  spend  considerable  time  in  proving  scientifically  whether 
things  are  right  or  wrong,  eventually  arriving  at  a  basic  truth,  which 
always  remains  a  truth  and  as  such  helps  in  arriving  at  other  truths. 

In  the  things  that  have  to  do  with  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
I  am  quite  sure  that  we  are  not  using  this  method  to  the  same  extent 
as  we  might  use  it  in  proving  all  things,  and  then  in  holding  fast  to  that 
which  is  good.  I  heard  one  of  our  speakers  say  that  we  were  on  very 
poor  ground  when  we  thought  our  testimonies  were  sufficient  in  regard 
to  some  of  the  things  that  we  declared  that  we  knew.  He  said  that  very 
frequently,  even  when  it  came  to  testimony,  we  should  put  it  on  one 
side  so  that  we  might  prove  it  right  again.  I  can  see  no  more  advantage 
in  eliminating  the  truth  and  the  testimony  that  God  gives  us  in  religious 
things  than  I  can  see  in  continually  disregarding  basic  truths  of  science. 
In  arithmetic  we  might  say  that  two  times  two  are  four  is  always  correct, 
we  prove  it  daily  by  its  use.  We  get  no  place,  we  are  confused  when, 
in  order  to  re-prove  this  proposition,  we  say  two  times  two  are  five. 
It  seems  to  me  that  this  is  the  thing  we  do  every  once  in  a  while  with 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

THE  VALUE  OF  A  TESTIMONY 

The  Lord  in  His  mercy  gives  to  us  a  testimony  and  demonstrates 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


37 


it  to  us  in  such  a  conclusive  way  that  we  know  that  we  do  have  a  basic 
religious  truth  for  our  testimony.  For  example,  we  know  and  we  testify 
individually  and  collectively  that  God  is  a  personal  being  and  that  we  are 
made  in  His  image.  If  our  experiences  and  investigations,  and  His 
inspiration  to  us  have  proved  this  to  be  a  basic  truth,  we  should  hold 
fast  to  it  because  it  is  good. 

Men  in  the  past  have  not  been  able  to  understand  our  conception 
of  God.  They  cannot  see  that  anything  in  the  shape  of  man  could  be 
able  to  have  the  ability,  the  power,  and  the  majesty  that  dwell  in  God 
the  Eternal  Father.  As  we  move  through  life  we  do  have  men  who  in 
a  measure  assume  the  qualities  and  majesty  of  God,  and  feel  that  they 
are  quite  necessary  to  the  affairs  of  life,  but  these  men  are  gradually 
eliminated  as  was  the  house  that  was  built  upon  the  sand.  Perhaps  the 
only  trouble  is  that  they  are  able  to  do  so  many  wicked  and  bad  things 
before  the  waves  come. 

We  have  the  same  proposition  in  relation  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
We  know  the  fundamental  truth  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  based  on  a 
truth  that  cannot  be  eliminated  or  removed  by  any  type  of  argument  or 
reason.  For  instance,  in  coffee  we  have  caffein  that  is  harmful,  yet  we 
sometimes  reason  that  the  same  thing  that  makes  coffee  objectionable 
may  not  be  so  objectionable  when  it  is  used  in  some  other  way.  It 
just  indicates  that  we  have  not  proven  the  thing  so  thoroughly  that  we 
have  been  able  to  hold  fast  to  that  which  is  good  and  make  it  a  part  of 
our  lives. 

THE  SCRIPTURES  MAKE  CLEAR  THE  TRUTH 

The  Lord  has  said:  "Search  the  scriptures,  for  in  them  ye  think 
ye  have  eternal  life,  and  they  are  they  which  testify  of  me."  Thus  we 
have  a  way  of  finding  the  truth  regarding  God  and  His  relations  to  us. ' 
We  have  a  way  of  establishing  the  truth  so  thoroughly  in  our  hearts 
that  we  will  be  able  to  hold  fast  to  it.  Perhaps  if  we  had  had  the  same 
interest  and  used  the  same  time  and  the  same  thoroughness  in  searching 
the  scriptures  of  the  Lord  as  we  have  used  in  the  field  of  science,  we 
would  find  that  we  were  growing  in  the  ability  to  hold  fast  to  that  which 
is  good,  and  not  let  it  get  away  from,  us. 

We  have  practically  the  same  advice  given  to  us  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  but  we  seldom  have  a  desire  in  our  hearts  to  know  whether 
this  book  is  right  or  wrong.  If  we  will  go  to  this  book,  according  to 
Moroni,  and  read  it  in  a  prayerful  way,  with  faith,  desiring  to  have  a 
testimony  and  to  find  out  as  to  its  truthfulness,  by  the  inspiration  of 
God  and  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  we  shall  know  the  truth. 

We  who  have  taken  this  admonition,  we  who  have  accepted  this  way 
of  proving  the  things  of  God,  have  readily  found  out,  if  we  have  done  the 
thing  sincerely,  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true,  and  that  God  gave 
it  to  His  prophet,  Joseph  Smith. 

SAFETY  IN  KEEPING  THE  COMMANDMENTS 

There  are  so  many  things  in  life  that  are  vital  to  us.    If  we  would 


38  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  4  First  Day 

go  where  we  want  to  go,  if  we  would  have  the  blessings  that  we  would 
like  for  ourselves  and  our  loved  ones,  we  must  find  out  the  things  of  God 
and  then  hold  fast  to  them  and  never  let  them  get  away  from  us,  either  in 
times  of  tribulation  or  temptation,  or  times  of  joy  and  happiness. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  guard  His  word  in  that  light 
and  live  sincerely  the  precepts  and  the  admonitions  given  to  us,  for  the 
Lord  has  said:  "If  ye  love  me,  keep  my  commandments."  Perhaps  at 
the  end  of  our  lives  we  will  have  demonstrated  how  much  love  we  have 
for  God  by  the  number  of  commandments  that  we  have  kept  and  held 
fast  to.    May  He  so  bless  us,  I  humbly  pray  in  Jesus' name.  Amen. 

The  Singing  Mothers  sang  "Songs  My  Mother  Taught  Me,"  by 
Dvorak.  Sister  Permilla  Bean  directed  the  Chorus. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Since  we  are  living  at  a  time  when  wars  of  the  greatest  known  mag- 
nitude are  being  fought  between  some  of  the  most  powerful  nations  of 
the  world,  very  naturally  we  are  wondering  what  the  results  are  going 
to  be  and  particularly  what  part  our  own  country  will  play  in  this  intense 
and  most  disheartening  conflict.  We  are  all  extremely  anxious  to  know 
whether  or  not  our  government  is  so  constituted  that  it  can  endure  in- 
definitely, or  whether  the  time  is  now  approaching  when  government 
of  the  people  and  by  the  people  and  for  the  people  is  to  perish  from  the 
earth. 

Dr.  Andrew  D.  White,  great  scholar,  wise  diplomat,  historian,  and 
the  first  president  of  Cornell  University,  said  many  years  ago  that 
since  all  the  republics  of  the  past  have  failed,  he  had  made  a  careful 
study  for  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  in  our  republic  there 
is  any  element  that  did  not  exist  in  those  republics  which  have  not  endured. 
His  conclusion  was  that  the  only  new  and  outstanding  characteristic 
of  our  republic  is  its  public  school  system  and  he  expressed  the  view 
that  if  our  nation  is  to  endure  indefinitely  it  will  be  because  of  the  broad 
democratic  training  and  education  in  our  public  school  system  that  we 
are  giving  to  all  the  citizens  of  our  nation. 

PUBLIC  EDUCATION  NOT  ENOUGH 

But  there  are  those  who  have  strong  convictions  that  public  school 
education  alone  is  not  enough  to  preserve  indefinitely  and  in  peace,  the 
life,  the  liberty  and  the  prosperity  of  this  our  beloved  country,  the  United 
States  of  America.  Many  are  of  the  opinion  that  other  elements  are 
necessary.  Religion,  morality,  righteousness !  These  are  elements  which 
must  be  factors  in  the  make-up  of  any  nation,  it  is  said,  if  that  nation 
is  to  endure  indefinitely. 

Experience  has  taught  that  morality  is  the  life  of  a  nation  and 
religion  is  the  life  of  morality.  "Arming  a  country  with  guns  and  tanks 
and  airplanes  is  not  enough,"  says  Roger  W.  Babson.  Selecting  men 
for  the  army,  the  navy  and  the  air  force  on  physical  fitness  alone  will 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


39 


not  suffice.  "If  our  defense  program  is  to  succeed,"  he  continues,  "the 
entire  country  must  experience  a  re-birth,  for  in  the  end,  only  righteous- 
ness can  save  a  nation." 

REVELATIONS  PERTAINING  TO  THIS  LAND 

Our  modern  revelations,  as  recorded  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
of  the  restored  Church,  (Section  58)  declare  that  this  is  the  land  upon 
which  the  Zion  of  God  shall  stand.  The  faithful  are  to  have  this  land 
as  an  inheritance  for  their  children  forever  and  forever.  Here  the  poor 
and  the  lame  and  the  blind  and  the  deaf  are  "to  partake  of  the  supper 
of  the  Lord."  But  in  this  land,  these  revelations  tell  us,  the  law  of  the 
Lord  must  be  obeyed,  and  here,  the  record  says,  no  man  is  to  be  in 
bondage  to  any  other  man,  and  it  declares  that  the  Constitution  of  our 
country  was  prepared  under  divine  guidance.  The  Prophet  Joseph 
when  dedicating  the  Kirtland  Temple  prayed  that  the  Lord  would  have 
mercy  on  all  the  nations  of  the  earth,  and  he  appealed  especially  for  the 
Lord  to  have  mercy  upon  this  our  own  government,  so  that  the  principles 
of  freedom  and  justice  for  all  men  guaranteed  by  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States  might  be  "established  forever." 

Then  again,  the  inspired  words  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  assure 
us  that  inasmuch  as  we  live  the  righteous  life  and  keep  the  Lord's  com- 
mandments, we  shall  prosper  here  in  America  which  the  Lord  says  again 
and  again  is  "a  land  choice  above  all  other  lands."  The  faithful,  accord- 
ing to  this  divine  record,  are  to  enjoy  this  as  a  land  of  their  inheritance 
and  adds  that  this  "land  of  promise"  is  for  them  and  for  their  faithful 
children  forever.  Those  faithful  ones  who  have  been  "gathered  here 
from  other  nations"  are  also  to  enjoy  this  as  a  land  of  liberty.  The 
righteous  inhabitants  of  this  country,  this  inspired  record  continues, 
"shall  never  be  brought  down  into  captivity."  Here  "there  shall  be  none 
to  molest  them,"  none  to  "take  away  this,  the  land  of  their  inheritance." 

A  LAND  OF  PROMISE 

It  is  gratifying  and  satisfying  to  us  who  have  faith  in  the  inspired 
words  of  this  divine  record,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  to  read  further  that 
"This  land  shall  be  fortified  against  all  other  nations,"  it  shall  be  a  land 
of  liberty  and  upon  it  there  shall  be  no  king.  This  inspired  book  says 
further  that  God  has  preserved  this  country  for  a  righteous  people,  and 
that  whatever  nation  shall  possess  this  land  of  America,  shall  serve  God 
or  else  that  nation  "shall  be  swept  away."  "Whatsoever  nation  shall 
possess  this  land,"  the  divine  record  continues,  "shall  be  free  from 
bondage,  and  from  captivity  and  from  all  other  nations  under  heaven, 
if  they  will  but  serve  the  God  of  this  land  who  is  Jesus  Christ." 

Our  fathers  came  to  this  land  of  promise  and  under  divine  guidance, 
as  we  believe,  they  established  our  Constitution  and  government  which 
guarantee  freedom,  liberty  and  justice  to  all  men.  Having  been  led  and 
guided  by  providence  very  appropriately  they  adopted  these  words  as 
the  motto  of  our  country,  "In  God  We  Trust,"  and  it  is  fitting  therefore 
that  the  people  of  our  nation  sing : 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

First  Day 

Our  father's  God  to  Thee, 
Author  of  liberty, 
To  Thee  we  sing ; 
Long  may  our  land  be  bright 
With  freedom's  holy  light, 
Protect  us  by  Thy  might, 
Great  God,  our  King ! 

COERCION  IN  GOVERNMENT  NOT  THE  LORD'S  WAY 

The  Lord  Himself  has  always  favored  government  by  the  people. 
You  will  remember  that  in  the  days  of  Samuel  the  Prophet  the  Lord 
instructed  him  to  let  the  people  have  whatever  form  of  government  they 
desired.  They  clamored  for  a  dictator,  a  king,  and  because  the  Lord 
respected  the  right  of  free-will  and  human  choice,  because  He  recognized 
the  right  of  men  to  govern  themselves,  and  that  it  is  better  that  humanity 
be  self-governed,  even  though  they  are  poorly  governed,  than  to  be  com- 
pelled to  obey  even  the  divine  law,  He  told  the  Prophet  to  let  the  people 
have  a  king,  a  dictator,  since  they  insisted  upon  it.  And  the  Bible  tells  us 
that  after  the  decision  of  the  Israelites  to  have  a  king,  their  dictatorial 
rulers  wasted  the  substance  of  the  people,  they  took  away  their  personality 
and  their  freedom,  and  oppressed  them  with  heavy  taxes  and  other 
burdens.  Instead  of  making  a  government  for  the  people,  as  in  a  democ- 
racy, the  people  became  the  subjects  of  the  dictators  who  did  not  rule 
for  the  good  of  the  many  but  to  bring  power,  wealth  and  idleness  to  a 
few. 

Our  government  is  founded  on  the  principle  laid  down  by  the  Lord 
Himself :  that  a  man  is  capable  of  self-government.  This  is  in  harmony 
with  the  divine  intent  expressed  by  the  Creator  when  He  said  : 

Let  us  make  man  in  our  image,  after  our  likeness  and  let  them 
have  dominion  .  .  .  over  all  the  earth. 

This  important  statement  of  man's  right  and  ability  to  rule  is 
expressed  in  our  Declaration  of  Independence  thus  :  "Governments  derive 
their  just  powers  from  the  consent  of  the  governed."  And  no  doubt 
those  forms  of  government  in  which  there  is  an  assumption  to  rule 
without  the  consent  of  those  who  are  to  be  governed  are  responsible  for 
that  forceful  expression,  "Resistance  to  tyrants  is  obedience  to  God." 

PROVISION  MADE  FOR  THREE  BRANCHES  OF  GOVERNMENT 

Wisely  did  our  forefathers  organize  our  national  institution  with 
three  different,  distinct  departments,  each  one  to  be  entirely  separate 
from  and  independent  of  the  other  two.  These  three  departments  are 
the  Legislative,  the  Executive  and  the  Judicial.  These  able  and  far- 
seeing  patriots  and  statesmen  thus  made  these  three  separate  and  distinct 
departments  the  cornerstone  of  our  republic  and  the  guarantee  that  in 
our  land  there  shall  never  be  a  dictator. 

Among  those  who  created  this  great  free  government  were  Puritans 
whose  ancestors  had  struggled  for  generations  in  England  and  in  Hol- 
land to  secure  the  right  to  think,  the  right  to  be  free,  and  the  right  to 


40 

Friday.  October  4 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


41 


worship  God  in  whatever  way  they  saw  fit.  In  England,  in  those  early 
days,  non-conformity  with  the  rules,  regulations,  beliefs  and  doctrines  of 
the  established  Church  was  neither  permitted  nor  tolerated.  Puritanism 
contained  the  principle  of  true  religious  toleration.  And  doubtless  the 
ultimate  tendency  of  the  views  of  the  Puritans  was  to  republicanism 
rather  than  to  monarchy  although  in  England  the  Church  and  the  State 
were  considered  one  and  inseparable. 

Eight  restless  years  the  Pilgrims  spent  in  Holland  where  they  had 
gone  to  find  religious  liberty  and  free  government.  They  discovered 
soon,  however,  that  for  them  Holland  could  not  be  a  permanent  home. 
Bradford  says  that  when  they  looked  toward  America  they  were  actuated 
by  a  great  hope  and  an  intense  inward  zeal  to  lay  a  good  foundation 
in  those  then  remote  parts  of  the  world  for  the  propagating  and  the 
advancing  of  "the  gospel  of  the  Kingdom  of  Christ."  They  struggled 
to  prepare  stepping  stones,  at  least,  to  assist  others  in  the  accomplishment 
of  this  great  and  important  gospel  service. 

Thus  were  the  Puritans  inspired  to  come  to  America  and  here 
help  to  prepare  a  people  and  frame  a  government  providing  such  religious 
tolerance  that  it  was  possible  for  God  the  Father  and  His  Son  Jesus 
Christ  to  come  to  these  United  States  and  here  restore  and  establish  the 
Gospel  in  its  original  fulness.  Under  these  just  and  liberal  laws  it  was 
possible  for  the  ancient  church  to  be  established  again  with  all  its  keys, 
rights  and  authority  to  teach,  preach  and  proclaim  the  fundamentals 
of  righteousness  in  preparation  for  the  coming  again  of  our  Lord  and 
Master  who  is  to  bring  joy,  happiness  and  peace  to  the  world. 

TWO  ANTAGONISTIC  FORCES  AT  WAR 

These  great  present-day  battles,  to  which  I  have  referred,  the 
greatest  of  all  time,  are  contests  between  two  forces  which  are  utterly 
antagonistic.  One  of  these  is  impelled  by  the  despotic  passion  to  rule 
mankind  and  rob  human  beings  of  their  free  agency,  and  the  other 
has  for  its  cherished  ideal  the  right  and  ability  of  man  to  rule  himself. 
The  one  contemplates  government  dominated  by  dictators ;  the  other  is 
the  plan  of  the  Almighty  who  created  men  free  and  equal  and  endowed 
them  with  the  right  and  the  intelligence  to  be  their  own  sovereigns. 
The  Creator  never  intended  that  a  tyrant  should  assume  the  role  of 
dictator  and  lord  it  over  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God  under  the 
despotic  motto :  "Might  makes  right." 

Our  forefathers  interpreted  this  great  fundamental  principle  of 
freedom  for  mankind  in  these  words: 

All  men  are  created  equal.  They  are  endowed  by  their  Creator  with 
certain  inalienable  rights.  To  secure  these,  governments  are  instituted 
among  men,  deriving  their  just  powers  from  the  consent  of  the  governed. 
Whenever  any  form  of  government  becomes  destructive  of  these  ends, 
it  is  the  right  of  the  people  to  abolish  it. 

The  aim  of  our  patriotic  fathers  was  to  establish  a  government 
that  would  guarantee  to  them  and  to  their  descendants  to  the  last  genera- 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  4  First  Day 

tion  freedom,  security,  and  happiness.  They  expressed  their  feelings 
in  the  Declaration  of  Independence  which  says: 

Appealing  to  the  supreme  Judge  of  the  world  for  the  rectitude  of  our 
intentions,  we  do  in  the  name  and  by  the  authority  of  the  good  people  of 
these  colonies  solemnly  publish  and  declare  that  these  United  States  are 
and  of  right  ought  to  be  free  and  independent  states. 

.  And  the  exalted  republican  principles  for  which  these  great  and 
mighty  leaders  stood  are  thus  expressed : 

We  the  people  of  the  United  States  in  order  to  secure  the  blessings  of 
liberty  to  ourselves  and  our  posterity  do  ordain  and  establish  this  Con- 
stitution for  the  United  States  of  America. 

JESUS  PROMOTED  THE  RIGHTS  OF  MANKIND 

Christ  Himself  did  not  come  to  the  great  and  to  the  mighty  of  the 
earth;  He  came  to  humble  shepherds  who  were  watching  their  flocks 
by  night.  But  for  His  teachings,  His  announcement  and  defense  of  the 
sacred  right  of  all  men,  you  and  I  today  might  be  the  slaves  of  tyrants, 
the  bondsmen  of  cruel  masters.   Clarence  True  Wilson  said : 

From  the  scorching  fires  of  every  persecution  there  has  arisen  some 
leader  with  a  tongue  of  fire  who  has  been  inspired  by  the  love  of  Jesus 
Christ  to  call  men  to  a  higher,  a  purer  and  a  better  life.  Jesus  promoted 
the  rights  of  mankind.  He  is  the  Creator,  he  is  the  Architect  of  the 
republican  form  of  government. 

His  Church  stands  on  the  principle  of  human  brotherhood.  He 
taught  that  he  who  humbleth  himself  shall  be  exalted,  that  this  world  of 
ours  is  for  us  all  and  not  for  a  select  few.  No  one  ever  chose  for  his 
followers  and  associates  men  less  gifted,  more  simple,  plain  and  humble 
than  did  Jesus  when  he  selected  his  twelve  Apostles.  And  yet  see  into 
what  heroic,  noble,  able,  death-defying  characters  they  became.  Thus 
the  Savior  Himself  demonstrated  that  the  humblest  men  may  develop 
into  the  highest  characters.  He  had  high  regard  for  the  plain  people. 
Every  example  He  set,  every  doctrine  He  taught  was,  it  seems,  intended 
to  show  that  genuine  greatness  is  in  the  act  of  service.  He  taught  the 
equality  of  men  and  the  dignity  of  those  who  are  poor  and  stricken. 
The  longest  sermon  he  ever  preached  was  delivered,  it  is  said,  to  a  motley 
crowd  of  peasants  and  fishermen.  To  this  audience  of  ordinary  people 
he  gladly  gave  those  great  ideas  and  ideals  contained  in  that  matchless 
religious  appeal,  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount. - 

THE  CHURCH  AND  THIS  GOVERNMENT 

Our  nation,  our  country  and  this  Church,  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  seem  to  conform  to  what  was  predicted 
and  specified  by  the  ancient  prophets.  We  verily  believe  that  in  our 
present  combination  of  Church  and  government  we  have  what  the  Proph- 
et Daniel  said  had  been  shown  to  King  Nebuchadnezzar  in  his  famous 
dream.  The  king  was  shown  things  that  are  to  come  to  pass  in  these 
latter  days.  Many  nations  and  many  kingdoms  are  to  be  destroyed, 
but  the  God  of  Heaven  is  to  set  up  a  Kingdom  which  shall  never  be 


\ 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


43 


destroyed,  a  Kingdom  that  shall  not  be  left  to  other  people,  a  Kingdom 
that  shall  break  in  pieces  and  consume  all  other  kingdoms,  and,  the 
Prophet  adds,  it  is  a  Kingdom  that  shall  stand  forever.  It  is  the  stone 
cut  out  of  the  mountain  without  hands,  the  stone  that  is  to  become 
a  great  mountain;  yes,  the  prophet  says  it  is  the  stone  that  is  to 
fill  the  whole  earth.  (Daniel  2)  It  is  our  belief  that  this  refers 
to  our  own  land,  choice  above  all  other  lands,  and  to  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  with  its  principles  of  free  agency  and  self- 
government. 

PEACE  ACHIEVED  THROUGH  UNSELFISHNESS 

And  now,  in  the  name  of  Him  who  is  our  only  King,  Jesus  the  Son 
of  God,  let  us  as  members  of  the  Church  and  as  citizens  of  this  great 
nation,  unite  in  an  appeal  to  our  heavenly  Father,  with  whom  nothing 
is  impossible,  to  bring  to  us  and  to  all  mankind  that  glorious  blessing 
of  peace,  good  will  and  understanding,  for  which  righteous  people  all 
over  the  world  these  days  are  so  devoutly  praying.  And  when  making 
these  our  heartfelt,  prayerful  appeals  may  we  never  -forget  that  only 
by  living  unselfish  lives,  by  feeding  the  hungry,  clothing  the  naked, 
visiting  the  fatherless  and  the  widows  in  their  affliction  and  extending 
to  all  men  their  God-given  liberty,  can  we  hope  to  secure  joy  and 
happiness  and  everlasting  peace. 

By  our  faithfulness  and  devotion  to  these  righteous  principles  may 
we  bring  to  our  beloved  nation  and  to  the  distressed  people  of  all  the 
world  these  choice  blessings,  I  humbly  pray,  through  Jesus  Christ  our 
Lord.  Amen. 

ELDER  MARVIN  O.  ASHTON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  have  been  impressed  as  you  have  by  the  services  thus  far  this 
afternoon,  and  of  course  what  was  said  this  morning.  I  do  not  know 
what  part  of  President  Clark's  talk  impressed  you  most,  but  I  know 
what  gave  me  the  most  comfort.  It  was  when  he  said :  "I  will  now  speak 
and  take  a  hand  in  putting  myself  out  of  misery."  Shocked  as  I  was  in 
hearing  one  of  the  Authorities  make  such  an  intimation,  I  thought,  "Well 
that  certainly  helps  some  of  the  rest  of  us  out."  After  all,  as  someone 
has  said,  "There  is  as  much  human  nature  in  one  of  us  as  the  rest  of  us." 

There  are  two  things  that  a  person  prays  for  in  trying  to  fill  this 
speaking  responsibility.  One  is,  he  prays  that  he  will  feel  at  ease  to  the 
extent  that  he  might  say  what  he  would  like  to  say ;  and,  second,  that  what 
he  does  say  may  be  tempered  with  inspiration  from  above  that  he  will 
be  wise  in  saying  nothing  that  would  be  improper.  I  certainly  pray 
that  I  may  be  blessed  in  these  two  regards  this  afternoon. 

VISITS  TO  STAKES  BRING  ENCOURAGEMENT 

The  Presiding  Bishopric  have  been  going  through  the  Church  con- 
siderably lately.    We  see  what  is  going  on  here,  and  what  is  going  on 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  4  First  Day 

there,  and  of  course  in  some  of  these  places  we  see  what  is  not  going 
on.  It  is  a  wise  observation  that  we  should  not  be  pessimists.  We  are 
cautioned  to  observe  the  bread  part  of  the  doughnut  as  well  as  the  hole. 
Now  it  is  not  my  purpose  in  any  sense  to  be  a  pessimist.  I  want  to 
appreciate  the  food  of  the  doughnut  as  well  as  the  space  inside. 

When  you  see  two  hundred  lads  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  take  part 
in  a  chorus  in  a  Stake  conference,  you  begin  to  realize  that  somebody  is  at 
work  with  boys.  When  you  see  some  Stakes  do  outstanding  things  you 
thank  God  for  such  leadership.  The  other  day  in  one  of  the  Stakes  I 
called  at  a  little  home  and  saw  sitting  on  the  floor  three  deep — they  had 
to  sit  on  the  floor  to  be  accommodated  in  the  house — about  fifty-five 
to  sixty  young  people,  ninety  per  cent  of  whom  having  attended  their 
sacrament  meeting  this  night,  now  assembled  in  a  Book  of  Mormon 
class,  wholesomely  conducted  by  themselves.  You  see  those  things  and 
you  are  impressed. 

When  you  see  a  little  Bishop  stand  up  and  say  that  he  could  account 
for  every  one  of  his  Lesser  Priesthood  boys  for  the  past  ten  years,  and 
each  one  of  them  js  wholesome,  clean,  and  sweet,  it  makes  you  appreciate 
what  some  people  are  doing.  Of  course  that  sounds  pretty  much  like 
the  fellow  they  tell  about  crossing  the  plains,  driving  a  swarm  of  bees. 
He  contended  he  did  not  lose  a  bee.  But  I  believe  that  Bishop.  God 
bless  him ! 

THE  OTHER  SIDE  OF  THE  PICTURE 

Now  for  just  a  minute  let  us  look  at  the  inside  of  the  doughnut. 
You  cannot  ostrich-like  put  your,  head  under  the  sand  and  say  there  is  no 
danger  about  you.  You  have  to  take  facts  as  they  are.  There  is  a  fact 
thrown  out  to  you  and  to  me  that  is  a  challenge,  and  I  mention  it.  This 
is  our  work;  I  mean  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  It  is  the  work  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric.  There  are  right  now  36,733  adult  Aaronics  in  this 
Church  of  record;  men  twenty  years  of  age  and  above  who  are  not  Elders 
or  hold  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  May  I  remind  you  that  the  average 
attendance  at  sacrament  meeting  of  these  men  is  five  per  cent.  I  have 
too  much  sense  to  condemn  that  group  of  men.  The  best  gold  we  have, 
we' shall  find  in  those  men  if  we  dig  down  deep  enough  and  use  the  right 
process  in  "smelting  the  ore."   Now  there  is  a  challenge  to  you. 

Another  way  of  saying  it  is  that  out  of  ten  boys  from  twelve  to 
twenty  you  are  really  teaching  or  training  only  six  the  way  you  should. 
Now  put  that  figure  in  front  of  us — 36,733.  Look  at  it  sideways,  from 
the  front  and  from  the  back,  any  way  you  want  to  look  at  it !  It  is  there 
staring  us  straight  in  the  eye.  Someone  has  said,  "Let  us  have  the 
strength  to  face  a  fact  though  it  kills  us."   Let  us  face  the  facts. 

Now  what  about  your  pedagogy,  what  about  your  human  kindness, 
what  about  your  boys'  men — ability,  and  all  the  rest  of  the  virtues  that 
we  of  ttimes  brag  about  ?  I  ask  you  the  question,  where  is  it  all  ?  Where 
are  those  other  four  ?  Why  don't  we  touch  their  lives  more  successfully 
than  we  do? 


ELDER  MARVIN  0.  ASHTON 


45 


APPEAL  FOR  BETTER  LEADERSHIP 

Sometimes  I  think  we  give  the  boys  an  acid  test  and  a  burning  test. 
Let  me  explain  what  I  understand  that  means:  If  you  will  take  a  bone 
that  has  stood  on  an  anthill  for  three  or  more  years,  (I  don't  care  how 
dry  it  is),  and  you  soak  it  in  muriatic  acid,  as  dry  as  that  bone  is  you 
can  tie  it  in  a  knot.  You  have  nothing  but  gristle  or  animal  matter  left. 
Now  take  what  you  have  left  and  put  the  torch  under  it  and  you  haven't 
very  much  left  of  that  bone.  The  muriatic  acid  in  one  case  eats  up  the 
mineral  or  the  lime,  and  the  burning  eats  up  the  animal  matter. 

Now  that  is  just  what  some  of  us  do  with  boys.  I  am  looking  now 
at  the  inside  of  the  doughnut.  I  am  looking  at  those  things  we  do  not 
do.  I  am  keeping  in  mind  all  the  time  some  of  the  fine  things  that  we  do. 
You  give  the  boy  the  acid  test  and  then  the  burning  test.  Now  let  us 
see  what  we  mean  by  the  acid  test.  Here  is  one : — you  give  the  boy 
improper  supervision.  Someone  has  said,  "We  are  not  shepherds,  we 
are  sheep  herders."  We  "taketh"  them  not  down  into  green  pastures, 
but  we  "draggeth"  them  over  cacti  and  rocks,  and  before  we  get  through 
with  them,  their  mouths  are  Heeding  from  briars  and  thorns  we  "suf- 
fereth"  them  to  eat.  Sometimes  if  you  get  a  good  boys'  man  for  the  boys, 
along  comes  a  petty  vacancy  in  the  Ward  and  you  let  him  go.  Somebody 
suffers.  There  is  not  a  bigger  job  in  this  Church  than  taking  care  of  these 
boys.  The  boy  of  today  is  the  man  of  tomorrow.  When  our  deacon 
comes  to  his  quorum  meeting,  too  many  times  he  is  met  with  an  unpre- 
pared program.  He  is  met  too  many  times  with  a  leader  who  knows  little 
or  nothing  about  boy  psychology  or  the  first  principles  of  getting  his 
interest.  We  fumble  him  about  with  our  clumsiness  and  lack  of  con- 
sistent follow-up  until  up  his  sleeve,  while  he  respects  us,  his  soul  rebels 
against  our  promiscuousness. 

When  you  see  these  figures — just  four  out  of  ten — you  may  think 
of  that  poem,  "The  Charge  of  the  Light  Brigade,"  and  say  to  yourself, 
"Someone  has  blundered."  We'll  have  to  wake  up;  we'll  have  to  put 
more  life  into  our  stewardship,  if  you  please,  of  these  boys.  I  cannot 
think  of  anything  that  better  illustrates  what  I  want  to  say  than  a  story 
that  has  been  told  before.  I  apologize  for  alluding  to  it  again,  but  it 
may  crystallize  better  what  I  am  trying  to  say. 

A  Scotch  minister  had  trouble  with  a  good  brother  in  his  congre- 
gation who  would  go  to  sleep.  The  minister  stood  it  as  long  as  he  could.. 
Finally  he  called  Sandy  to  him  and  told  him  he  would  have  to  stop 
going  to  sleep ;  he  could  not  stand  it  any  longer ;  that  he  was  setting  a 
bad  example.  The  brother  insisted  he  couldn't  help  it.  Finally  the 
minister's  eyes  brightened,  and  he  thought  he  had  some  real  inspiration. 
Said  he :  "When  you  come  to  Church  next  time,  bring  a  little  snuff  in  a 
can;  and  when  you  feel  yourself  getting  drowsy,  just  apply  a  little  bit 
of  snuff  in  your  nose." 

Then  his  good  church  patron  had  some  inspiration  and  he  came 
back  with:  "Wouldn't  it  be  an  awful  good  thing  if  you'd  put  a  wee 
bit  o'  snuff  into  your  sermons."  We'll  have  to  put  more  snuff  in  our 
teaching  of  boys. 


46  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  4  First  Day 

I  wouldn't  have  a  lad  that  wouldn't  wiggle,  and  if  you  think  the 
way  some  of  you  folks  take  care  of  this  wiggling  lad,  the  way  you  handle 
him  is  right,  you  are  sadly  mistaken.  I  hate  to  say  it,  but  I  do  not  hesitate 
for  one  minute.  I  have  seen  conditions  that  warrant  my  saying  it.  The 
leadership  sometimes  of  these  boys  is  dead  on  its  feet.  We  do  get  into 
ruts,  and  boys  that  look  for  a  little  spark  of  animation  from  us  are  disap- 
pointed. 

In  a  lecture  that  was  delivered  before  a  hospital  convention  the 
other  night,  a  wise  observation  was  made  by  the  speaker.  He  spoke  in 
hospital  terms  because  they  understood  them.  He  warned  them  against 
a  disease  altogether  too  prevalent.  This  ailment  has  afflicted  too  many 
men  who  are  supposed  to  lead  boys.  The  lecturer  said :  "If  you  get  the 
disease  there  is  no  need  of  being  vaccinated ;  that  won't  do  you  any  good ; 
they  cannot  operate ;  when  you  get  this  disease,  the  only  thing  you  can 
do  is  to  blast.  Now  here  is  the  disease :  it  is  metallurgic  fever.  It  is  the 
condition  in  the  body  where  the  iron  in  the  body  turns  to  lead  and  centers 
in  the  seat  of  the  trousers." 

Here  is  another  way  of  saying  the  same  thing: 

Man  was  not  made  to  sit  entranced 
And  press,  and  press,  and  press  his  pants, 
But  rather  with  an  open  mind 
To  circulate  among  his  kind. 
So,  my  friend,  beware  the  snare 
That  lurks  within  the  cushioned  chair. 
To  run  the  race  it  has  been  found 
Both  feet  must  be  upon  the  ground. 

THE  TRUE  STORY  OF  A  BOY 

Now  I  say  these  things  seriously.  We  ourselves  are  in  a  deep 
slumber  and  we  expect  to  keep  awake  a  wiggling,  wholesome,  American 
boy.  That  is  an  acid  test.  What  may  be  another  acid  test  ? — not  putting 
the  proper  value  on  a  boy.  Do  you  look  to  the  value  of  the  heart  that 
beats  under  his  coat,  or  do  you  see  only  the  outside  of  the  coat  ?  Many 
a  good  mother  misjudges  a  boy  because  he  is  not  a  Lord  Fauntleroy. 
Because  he  doesn't  keep  his  hair  combed,  you  think  he  is  on  the  road 
downward.  Sometimes  you  do  not .  see  him  as  he  really  is.  He  puts 
his  worst  foot  forward;  he  is  in  the  "ugly  duckling"  stage.  But  if  he 
were  treated  anywhere  near  right,  he  would  develop  into  a  bird  of  -  real 
plumage  and  grace. 

To  illustrate :  A  little  girl  of  the  slums  was  found  dangerously  sick. 
There  must  be  a  blood  transfusion  at  once.  Her  ragged  urchin  brother 
was  accosted: — would  he  give  his  blood  for  his  sister?  "Sure,"  he 
thundered  back.  After  they  had  worked  on  his  arm  for  a  few  minutes, 
its  whiteness,  because  of  the  wash,  he  had  not  witnessed  before,  almost 
frightened  him  to  death.  The  pumping  apparatus  was  set  to  work  and 
his  sister  revived.  When  he  learned  that  his  sister  fared  well,  notice 
the  deep-seated  surprise  back  to  the  doctor.  (I  hope  you  get  it.)  "Fine, 
Doc,  but  when  do  I  croak?" 

Do  you  in  judging  look  at  the  thread-bare  ragged  apparel,  or  are  you 


ELDER  MARVIN  0.  ASHTON 


47 


bent  on  discerning  the  sacrificing  thump  of  the  heart  that  beats  deeper 
down  in  his  soul? 

Christ  said  that  no  greater  thing  can  any  man  do  than  to  give  his 
life  for  his  fellows.  That  young  lad  thought  that  when  he  was  asked  to 
give  his  blood  for  his  sister,  it  meant  that  he  was  giving  his  life.  We  in 
our  civilization  box  the  ears  of  the  lad  until  his  ear  drums  are  numb 
and  he  is  deaf  the  rest  of  his  life,  and  that  same  fellow  is  the  man  who 
gives  you  your  electric  light  today.  We  put  a  dunce  cap  on  an  Einstein, 
and  our  schools  court  martial  the  boy  who  may  be  the  military  general 
of  tomorrow,  who  cuts  through  smoke  and  shrapnel  to  victory  and  makes 
this  the  "land  of  the  free  and  the  home  of  the  brave." 

Not  understood.  Poor  souls  with  stunted  vision 

Oft  measure  giants  by  their  narrow  gauge ; 
The  poisoned  shafts  of  falsehood  and  derision 

Are  oft  impelled  'gainst  those  who  mould  the  age 
Not  understood. 

Not  understood.    How  many  hearts  are  aching 

For  lack  of  sympathy?  Ah,  day  by  day 
How  many  cheerless,  lonely  hearts  are  breaking 

How  many  noble  spirits  pass  away 
Not  understood. 

Oh  God,  that  man  would  see  a  little  clearer 
Or  judge  less  harshly  where  they  cannot  see, 

Oh  God,  that  men  would  draw  a  little  nearer 
To  one  another,  they'd  be  nearer  Thee 
Not  understood. 

With  this  boy  is  our  vision  stunted  and  do  we  measure  him  by  our 
narrow  gauge?  Fathers  and  mothers,  you  make  some  mistakes.  Teachers 
in  schools,  and  we  in  the  Church  should  see  a  little  clearer  and  judge  less 
harshly. 

TEACHERS  MAY  INFLUENCE  BY  EXAMPLE 

Now  to  the  burning  test  to  this  lad :  I  mention  it  as  the  third  test, 
but  not  the  least.  The  burns  that  take  place  here  go  down  into  the  bone. 
Now  I  am  speaking  of  the  example  that  we  set  as  the  teachers  of  this 
boy.  What  kind  of  men  do  your  Bishops  pick  to  teach  these  boys? 
what  kind  of  life  are  we,  whom  the  boy  is  supposed  to  look  up  to,  living  ? 
If  you  please,  will  our  lives  "hold  water?"  Do  we  have  a  long  face  on 
the  Sabbath  day  and  in  holy  places,  and  play  a  different  tune  in  our 
conduct  in  the  affairs  of  men  in  the  ordinary  business  of  life?  In  my 
judgment  there  is  nothing  doing  more  harm  in  this  Church  today  than 
men  who  are  trying  to  play  a  double  game.  The  boy  always  finds  it  out. 
You  can't  fool  him.  By  our  conduct  we  often  pull  up  by  the  roots  the 
most  precious  sprouts  of  confidence  ever  germinated. 

To  illustrate  what  I  am  driving  at :  Maybe  some  of  you  remember 
Deacon  Jones,  who  is  mentioned  in  the  book,  "David  Harum."  He  was 
a  sanctimonious,  wonderful  fellow  on  the  Sabbath  day,  but  during  the 
week  you  had  to  hold  on  tight  to  your  eyebrows  or  he  would  take  them 
too — one  of  those  two-faced  "angelic"  souls  that  grace  this  world ;  the 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  4  First  Day 

kind  Christ  speaks  of  in  his  rebuke  to  the  old  Pharisees ;  a  front  as  pious 
as  apple  sauce,  but  a  trail  on  the  sands  of  time  of  dead  men's  bones. 
He  was  on  his  deathbed ;  he  was  doomed  to  go.  He  had  made  quite  an 
impression  on  some  of  the  village  who  did  not  think  very  straight;  but 
he  did  not  fool  the  boys.  The  boys  had  his  number.  He  began  to  sink, 
and  sink,  and  finally  he  got  so  low  that  instead  of  answering  the  doorbell 
or  the  knock  on  the  door  by  the  inquirers,  they  had  a  blackboard  put  out 
in  front  of  his  abode.  Every  half  hour  the  attending  physician  gave  his 
temperature  and  his  pulse.  There  was  quite  a  commotion  in  the  village, 
everybody  was  watching  that  blackboard.  Well,  the  boys  watched  it,  too, 
and  they  ~were  waiting  for  an  opportunity  to  express  themselves.  (If 
you  ever  want  to  get  the  proper  value  on  yourself,  ask  the  boys.)  I  think 
the  last  bulletin  read,  "8:05  a.  m. — pulse  50,  temperature  86."  When 
nobody  was  looking,  a  bright  lad,  with  mischief  bent,  who  knew  the 
Deacon,  slipped  up  with  a  piece  of  chalk,  and  excitingly  recorded  :  "8 :22i/2 
a.  m.    Much  excitement  in  hell;  Deacon  Jones  not  yet  arrived." 

As  Bobbie  Burns  put  it,  "The  man  of  independent  mind  looks  and 
laught  at  a.  that." 

DISCIPLINE  MOLDS  CHARACTER 

Now  I  would  not  have  you  think  for  a  minute  that  I  want  you  to 
pamper  this  boy.  Let  him  stand  on  his  own  feet.  One  man  said :  "One 
of  the  greatest  crops  that  America  is  reaping  today  is  the  spoiled  child." 
Some  of  you  people  who  have  worked  all  your  lives  are  as  guilty  as  the 
man  of  wealth.  You  say,  "I  have  had  such  a  hard  time  in  my  life  that 
I  certainly  won't  let  my  children  go  through  the  same  thing."  And  the 
spoiling  process  goes  on.  I  do  not  think  that  we  appreciate  to  the  full 
extent  what  this  means.  Does  your  girl  or  boy  know  how  to  spell 
"gratitude"  ?  Do  you  let  your  boy  fight  for  what  he  gets,  or  do  you  hand 
him  all  his  desires  on  a  silver  platter. 

I  remember  at  our  home,  for  years  and  years,  we  had  a  cow.  (I 
won't  forget  the  cow  because  of  certain  responsibilities  I  had  connected 
with  it.)  Every  time  a  calf  would  come  to  town,  father  would  in  the 
course  of  events  send  at  the  proper  time  for  the  butcher.  But  there  was 
one  little  heifer  that  father  said  we  would  keep.  When  that  animal 
was  about  nine  months  old,  father  came  home  one  day  with  a  big  strap 
with  spikes  driven  from  the  inside  out.  He  said  that  it  was  to  go  over 
the  calf's  nose.  In  other  words,  the  day  had  arrived  when  the  calf  must 
be  weaned.  I  wonder  sometimes  if  we  parents  use  the  same  philosophy 
on  our  children?  Do  we  wean  them?  I  am  speaking  now  figuratively. 
Many  a  boy  becomes  eighteen,  or  twenty,  goes  through  school,  and,  if 
you  please,  remains  not  weaned.  Many  a  boy  is  spoiled  because  you 
can't  spank  grandmothers.  Yes,  too,  because  you  can't  spank  parents. 
Until  the  last  few  years,  I  have  thought  that  the  cow  ought  to  have  worn 
the  strap  and  the  spikes  ought  to  center  in  that  part  of  her  anatomy 
that  the  calf  was  most  interested  in.  But  I  have  changed  my  mind  entirely, 
I  think  that  as  far  as  the  children  are  concerned,  the  strap  still  belongs 
over  their  noses  with  the  spikes  going  out.    Parents  should  be  painfully 


ELDER  MARVIN  0.  ASHTON 


49 


reminded  when  the  occasion  arises  that  the  weaning  is  in  process.  America 
will  learn  before  she  gets  through  that  her  children  should  know  more 
than  stepping  on  the  gas,  smoking  Turkish  blends,  and  ordering  up  choco- 
late eclairs  and  tutti-fruitis.  Yes,  and  what's  true  of  the  children  of  Uncle 
Sam  is  doubly  true  of  this  Church. 

I  took  a  piece  of  plastic  clay 
And  idly  fashioned  it  one  day, 
And  as  my  fingers  pressed  it  still 
It  moved  and  yielded  to  my  will. 
I  came  again  when  days  were  past, 
The  bit  of  clay  was  hard  at  last ; 
The  form  I  gave  it  still  it  bore 
But  I  could  change  it  never  more. 

I  took  a  piece  of  human  clay 

And  gently  formed  it  day  by  day ; 

I  molded  with  my  power  and  art 

A  young  child's  warm  and  yielding  heart. 

I  came  again  when  days  were  gone, 

It  was  a  man  I  looked  upon. 

The  form  I  gave  him  still  he  bore ; 

But  I  could  change  him  never  more. 

Now,  may  the  Lord  bless  us  in  this  boys'  business.  Don't  forget 
while  we  are  putting  the  acid  test  and  the  burning  test  on  this  lad,  tobacco 
shoots  her  shrapnel,  liquor  drops  bombs  from  the  sky,  and  then  you 
find  indolence  and  bad  habits  walk  arm  in  arm  with  the  boy  to  destruction. 

Let's  handle  this  boy  more  scientifically.  Let's  give  him  more 
attention.  He's  more  valuable  than  our  crops,  our  hogs,  and  our  business. 
He  is  the  man  of  tomorrow.  Give  him  the  right  start.  The  boy  is  like  a 
zipper;  start  him  right  and  he'll  come  through.  Don't  jerk  him,  you 
might  tear  the  meshes  and  then  you  haven't  a  track  to  travel  on. 

May  God  help  us  to  hold  these  boys,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  Singing  Mothers  Chorus,  under  the  direction  of  _Sister  Nellie 
M.  Bennion,  will  sing:  "The  Lord  is  my  light,"  by  Allitson. 

I  am  sure  that  I  express  the  gratitude  of  all  the  people  here  in  con- 
ference, and  those  who  have  been  listening  in  on  the  air  to  these  Singing 
Mothers  for  their  splendid  music. 

Again  I  urge  you  brethren  and  sisters  to  drive  carefully,  and  save 
your  lives  and  the  lives  of  others. 

The  chorus  sang  "The  Lord  is  my  Light."  (By  Allitson) 

Elder  Charles  C.  Heaton,  President  of  the  Kanab  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Saturday,  October  5, 
1940. 


50  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  5  Second  Day 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Saturday  morning,  October  5  at  10  o'clock 

a.  m. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  are  blessed  again  this  morning  in  having  with  us  President  Grant, 
who  is  presiding  at  this  meeting,  and  has  asked  me  to  conduct  the  services. 

The  singing  today  will  be  congregational,  under  the  direction  of 
Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  except  for  one  solo.  Our  organist  is  Alex- 
ander Schreiner.  The  opening  song  will  be  by  the  congregation,  "O 
Say,  What  is  Truth?",  by  Melling,  hymn  book,  page  17. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  Say,  What  is  Truth?"  (By 
Melling.) 

Elder  Charles  W.  Fagg,  President  of  the  Grant  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Praise  to  the  Man."  (By 
William  W.  Phelps.) 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  feel  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  my  religion  and  the 
association  I  have  with  you  this  morning  in  worshiping  the  Lord  in 
General  Conference  of  His  Church.  Personally  I  appreciate  your  attend- 
ance at  this  Conference.  I  enjoyed  very  greatly,  with  others  of  my 
brethren  and  their  wives,  greeting  about  seven  thousand  five  hundred 
people,  leaders  of  the  Church,  at  a  reception  held  in  the  Hotel  Utah 
Thursday  evening ;  and  I  suppose  you  are  all  here,  or  most  of  you,  today. 
To  me  it  is  an  evidence  of  your  faithfulness,  brethren  and  sisters,  and 
appreciation  -of  the  Gospel,  realizing  that  many  of  you  have  come  from 
afar,  great  distances,  and  at  more  or  less  expense,  and  I  believe  that 
you  have  come  in  discharge  of  a  sacred  religious  duty,  and  with  a  desire 
to  mingle  with  the  Saints  of  God,  and  to  worship  Him  in  His  appointed 
way. 

FAITHFUL  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  COMMENDED 

I  feel  full  of  blessing  for  you  and  all  the  faithful  Saints.  I  know 
the  integrity  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  the  sacrifices  that  many  of  them 
are  making  for  the  Gospel's  sake.  May  God  bless  you  and  reward  you 
abundantly  therefor,  and  keep  you  in  the  faith.  Those  who  are  indifferent 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


51 


and  careless  in  regard  to  their  religion,  I  hope  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
will  strive  with  them,  that  men  in  high  places  of  responsibility  will  strive 
with  them,  and  that  they  may  be  brought  into  real  activity  and  apprecia- 
tion of  the  Gospel,  and  take  advantage  of  their  opportunities  in  making 
their  calling  and  election  sure,  while  they  are  here  and  have  the  oppor- 
tunity, and  I  desire  to  be  one  with  them. 

I  suppose  that  we  are  all  candidates  for  the  highest  degree  of  glory 
in  the  Celestial  kingdom.  In  order  to  attain  to  those  heights  we  must 
serve  the  Lord  and  work  the  works  of  righteousness,  as  outlined  by 
the  Gospel  which  the  Lord  has  given  us  for  our  guide. 

One  of  the  articles  of  our  f  aith  reads : 

We  believe  that  through  the  atonement  of  Christ  all  mankind  may 
be  saved,  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel. 

INTERNAL  AND  EXTERNAL  EVIDENCES  OF  THE  GOSPEL 

There  are,  I  may  say,  two  principal  incentives  for  men  to  yield 
obedience  Unto  the  Gospel  in  order  to  obtain  salvation.  We  may  say 
the  one  is  the  external  and  the  other  the  internal  evidences  of  the  Gospel. 
If  we  ever  attain  to  a  fulness  of  glory  it  must  be  by  the  keeping  of  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord,  by  living  by  every  word  that  proceedeth 
forth  from  His  mouth.  We  must  have  faith  in  order  to  do  so.  Faith 
is  the  first  principle  of  revealed  religion,  the  foundation  of  all  righteous- 
ness, and  the  moving  cause  of  all  action.  Faith  comes  by  the  word  of 
God.  Hence  we  preach  and  teach,  that  men  and  women  may  have  faith, 
that  they  may  repent  of  their  sins,  yield  obedience  unto  the  laws  and 
ordinances  of  the  Gospel,  and  through  the  atonement  of  Jesus  Christ 
obtain  eternal  life  and  exaltation. 

The  internal  evidences  of  the  Gospel  are  experienced  by  those  who 
have  received  the  Gospel,  and  they  have  the  benefits  of  the  external 
evidences  as  well ;  while  those  who  are  non-members  of  this  Church  have 
practically  but  the  external  evidences. 

When  I  speak  of  internal  evidences,  I  regard  the  Holy  Ghost  as 
the  soul  of  Mormonism,  and  Mormonism  is  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of 
God  established  on  the  earth,  with  the  everlasting  Gospel  restored  in 
these  last  days. 

We  look  at  a  man  of  fine  physique  and  personality  and  admire  him, 
but  we  do  not  know  his  real  worth  until  we  become  acquainted  with 
him  and  learn  that  he  is  a  man  of  character,  a  man  of  integrity  to  truth 
and  the  principles  of  righteousness,  and  then  we  love  him  more  dearly. 

THE  COMPANIONSHIP  OF  THE  HOLY  GHOST 

People  on  the  outside  look  at  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  and  admire  its  organization,  its  institutions,  its  accomplish- 
ments ;  but  they  have  not  felt  as  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  felt,  who 
have  embraced  the  Gospel  and  helped  to  make  Mormonism  what  it  is 


52  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  5  Second  Day 

today.  When  a  person  has  had  faith  to  repent  of  his  sins,  and  yielded 
obedience  in  the  waters  of  baptism,  and  had  hands  laid  upon  him  by 
those  having  authority,  for  confirmation  to  membership  in  the  Church, 
and  received  the  Holy  Ghost,  it  is  his  right,  through  continued  faith- 
fulness, to  have  the  companionship  of  the  Holy  Ghost  with  him  all  the 
time,  to  be,  as  it  were,  a  lamp  to  his  feet  and  a  light  to  his  path  through 
life,  to  know  the  course  that  he  should  pursue,  and  have  strength  and 
power  to  pursue  that  course. 

That  is  the  will  of  the  Lord,  and  I  understand  what  the  Lord  meant, 
when  He  said :  "He  that  doeth  the  will  of  the  Father  shall  know  of  His 
doctrine"- — it  meant  that  very  thing.  Those  who  have  taken  that  course 
in  sincerity  do  know,  by  the  revelations  of  the  Lord,  through  the  Holy 
Ghost,  that  His  course  is  right,  in  accepting  of  the  Gospel ;  that  this  work 
in  which  we  are  engaged  is  indeed  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

The  scriptures  tell  us:  "No  man  can  say  that  Jesus  is  the  Lord, 
except  by  the  Holy  Ghost."  I  bear  you  my  testimony,  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  I  do  know,  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  added 
evidences  of  the  Gospel,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  and  Redeemer 
of  the  world.  I  feel  that  I  know  it  just  as  well  and  by  the  same  means 
that  Peter  knew,  when  the  Savior  asked  His  disciples : 

Whom  do  men  say  that  I  the  Son  of  man  am? 

*  *  *  *  * 

And  Simon  Petter  answered  and  said,  Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son 
of  the  living  God. 

And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  him,  Blessed  art  thou,  Simon- 
Barjona;  for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my 
Father  which  is  in  heaven. 

MEN  KNOWN  BY  THEIR  FRUITS 

The  Savior  gave  a  test  that  people  who  are  not  members  of  the 
Church  might  apply  in  their  investigation  of  the  Gospel,  particularly 
in  regard  to  prophets,  that  they  might  know  a  true  prophet  from  a 
false  one.  It  is  contained  in  the  seventh  chapter  of  Matthew,  where  He 
said  : 

Beware  of  false  prophets,  which  come  to  you  in  sheep's  clothing, 
but  inwardly  they  are  ravening  wolves. 

Ye  shall  know  them  by  their  fruits.  Do  men  gather  grapes  of  thorns, 
or  figs  of  thistles? 

Even  so  every  good  tree  bringeth  forth  good  fruit;  but  a  corrupt 
tree  bringeth  forth  evil  fruit. 

A  good  tree  cannot  bring  forth  evil  fruit,  neither  can  a  corrupt  tree 
bring  forth  good  fruit. 

Every  tree  that  bringeth  not  forth  good  fruit  is  hewn  down  and 
cast  into  the  fire. 

Wherefore  by  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them. 

By  the  fruits  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
its  membership,  we  may  be  known  as  God's  people,  and  this  work  as 
His  work. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  ~ 


53 


THE  PROPHET  ISAIAH  QUOTED 

I  desire  to  read  to  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  a  few  words  from 
the  prophecy  of  Isaiah,  who  spoke  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  and  for  the  Lord,  so  that  this  that  I  am  going  to  read  to  you  is  the 
word  of  the  Lord,  and  was  intended  for  us.  I  read  from  the  twenty-ninth 
chapter : 

Stay  yourselves,  and  wonder ;  cry  ye  out,  and  cry ;  they  are  drunken, 
but  not  with  wine;  they  stagger,  but  not  with  strong  drink. 

For  the  Lord  hath  poured  out  upon  you  the  spirit  of  deep  sleep,  and 
hath  closed  your  eyes;  the  prophets  and  your  rulers,  the  seers  hath  he 
covered. 

And  the  vision  of  all  is  become  unto  you  as  the  words  of  a  book  that 
is  sealed,  which  men  deliver  to  one  that  is  learned,  saying,  Read  this, 
I  pray  thee :  and  he  saith,  I  cannot,  for  it  is  sealed : 

And  the  book  is  delivered  to  him  that  is  not  learned,  saying,  Read 
this,  I  pray  thee :  and  he  saith,  I  am  not  learned. 

Wherefore  the  Lord  said,  Forasmuch  as  this  people  draw  near  me 
with  their  mouth,  and  with  their  lips  do  honor  me,  but  have  removed 
their  heart  far  from  me,  and  their  fear  toward  me  is  taught  by  the 
precepts  of  men: 

Therefore,  behold,  I  will  proceed  to  do  a  marvelous  work  among  this 
people,  even  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder ;  for  the  wisdom  of  their 
wise  men  shall  perish,  and  the  understanding  of  their  prudent  men  shall 
be  hid. 

THE  PROPHECY  FULFILLED 

Those  of  us,  brethren  and  sisters,  who  are  familiar  with  the  circum- 
stances surrounding  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  the 
establishment  of  this  work  in  the  earth,  can  readily  see  in  it  a  fulfilment 
of  the  word  of  the  Lord  as  He  spoke  it  through  His  servant,  the  prophet 
Isaiah.  It  was  to  be  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder  that  the  Lord  should 
bring  forth  at  this  particular  time,  when  the  Book  of  Mormon  should 
come  forth.  The  Book  of  Mormon  itself  contains  a  fulness  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  taught  by  Him  to  the  ancient  inhabitants  of 
this  American  continent,  and  it  is  before  the  world  today. 

In  the  beginning  of  this  work,  in  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  a  wonderful  work  was  accomplished.  He  laid  the  foundations  for 
an  ever  growing  and  increasing  organization  and  activities  in  the  Church 
intended  for  the  honor  and  glory  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  He  was  taken 
away  in  early  manhood.  He  gave  unto  us  the  revelations  of  the  Lord,  for 
our  guidance.  At  the  time  of  his  death  there  was  but  one  auxiliary 
organization  in  the  Church,  that  of  the  Relief  Society.  That  organization 
has  become  a  marvelous  organization.  Yes,  I  may  say  it  has  become 
a  marvel  in  the  eyes  of  men  and  women  within  and  without  the  Church. 

ORGANIZATIONS  PERFECTED 

It  was  in  the  days  of  President  Brigham  Young  that  the  Sunday 
School  organization  was  established.  It  has  grown  and  increased  until 
it  is  a  mighty  organization  in  the  earth,  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder, 
the  like  of  which  cannot  be  found  anywhere  else. 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  5  Second  Day 

It  was  in  President  Brigham  Young's  day  that  the  Young  Men's 
and  Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  Associations  were  organized. 
Each  of  them  has  become  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder. 

It  remained  for  the  administration  of  President  John  Taylor  to  give 
to  the  Church  the  Primary  organization,  which  is  another  marvelous 
work  and  a  wonder  in  the  earth  today. 

DEVELOPMENT  OF  CHURCH  UNDER  PRESENT  ADMINISTRATION 

It  remained  for  President  Heber  J.  Grant  and  his  administration 
to  carry  on  this  great  work  in  its  development,  increasing  the  Stakes  and 
Wards  of  Zion.  In  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  they  had  but 
one  or  two  Stakes,  and  now  we  have  a  hundred  thirty-two.  They  had  a 
few  Wards,  and  now  we  have  more  than  a  thousand  Wards.  We  have 
Missions  established,  and  for  more  than  a  century  we  have  been  carrying 
on  at  tremendous  expense.  Today  we  have  something  like  two  thousand 
missionaries  constantly  in  the  field.  The  expense  to  the  Church  and  to 
the  individual  missionaries  and  their  friends,  valuing  a  missionary's  time 
at  $900.00  a  year,  reaches  nearly  $4,000,000.00  per  annum.  This  gives 
evidence  of  the  faith  and  the  knowledge  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  that 
they  are  engaged  in  God's  work,  and  are  willing  to  make  sacrifices  for  its 
advancement  in  the  earth. 

In  the  days  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant  and  his  administration 
there  has  been  organized  in  the  Stakes  of  Zion  a  missionary  system, 
known  as  the  Stake  missionary  work  of  the  Church;  and  be  it  known, 
brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  according  to  the  statistics  of  the  Church, 
in  the  past  two  years,  with  fewer  missionaries  employed,  there  have  been 
more  converts  made  within  the  Stakes  of  Zion  than  in  the  mission  field. 
If  we  compare  the  cost  of  maintaining  the  missionary  work  abroad, 
this  work  carried  on  at  home  is  without  practically  any  cost  to  the  Church 
and  its  membership.  The  missionaries  maintain  themselves.  They  carry 
on  their  vocational  work.  They  can  sleep  in  their  own  beds  at  night,  eat 
at  their  own  tables,  and  the  work  goes  forward, — a  marvelous  work 
and  a  wonder,  to  the  credit  of  the  present  administration  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Another  outstanding  accomplishment  in  the  administration  of  the 
present  President  of  the  Church  is  that  of  the  Welfare  work  of  the 
Church.  Those  of  you  who  heard  President  Clark's  talk  yesterday 
morning  upon  this  subject  of  the  welfare  work  of  the  Church  must  have 
been  convinced  that  it  is  indeed  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder,  evidence 
that  the  present  President  of  this  Church  has  been  divinely  called  as 
God's  mouthpiece  and  prophet  unto  this  people.  Do  we  need  these 
evidences?  If  so,  we  should  make  use  of  them  and  let  them  have  their 
influence  upon  our  minds,  at  least  to  lead  us  to  a  careful  and  thorough 
investigation  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  it  is  preached  today. 

This  could  not  be  accomplished,  of  course,  by  the  leadership  of  the 
Church  alone.   It  involves  the  faithfulness  and  integrity  of  the  member- 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 


55 


ship  of  the  Church ;  and  may  the  Lord  bless  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  for 
such  integrity  and  faithfulness. 

DUTY  OF  MEMBERSHIP  OF  THE  CHURCH 

So  this  is  the  work  of  God,  and  it  will  go  on,  until  God's  purposes 
have  been  fully  accomplished  in  the  earth.  It  is  for  us  as  members  of 
the  Church  to  do  our  duty  and  to  stand  in  holy  places  and  watch  the 
judgments  of  God  go  by.  This  we  will  do  if  we  have  the  right  spirit  and 
are  living  our  religion  without  any  fear  or  trembling  on  our  part,  for 
we  know  that  God  will  take  care  of  His  own. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  do  know 
that  this  is  God's  work;  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living 
God ;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God  and  is  and  ever  will  be, 
as  also  his  successors,  one  by  one,  down  to  the  present  time,  and  not 
the  least  among  them  President  Heber  J.  Grant.  Thank  God  for  him. 
May  he  be  preserved  unto  us  and  unto  his  work  many  years  to  come, 
I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Twice  each  year,  for  the  last  few  years,  I  have  had  the  privilege 
and  pleasure  of  sitting  and  looking  into  your  faces,  and  contemplating 
the  things  that  are  transpiring  in  your  hearts.  But  I  want  to  say  to  you 
now  that  it  is  greatly  different  from  sitting  and  looking  at  you,  in  this 
position  which  I  now  occupy.  Just  a  few  feet  above  my  seat  makes  con- 
siderable difference. 

There  is  one  thing  that  we  all  have  been  contemplating,  and  I  know 
that  we  have  come  to  some  definite  conclusions  concerning  it,  and  that 
is  the  well-being  and  the  safety  of  this  people  who  have  been  gathered 
out  from  every  nation  and  from  every  branch  of  people  upon  the  earth, 
here  to  this  land  which  has  been  consecrated  and  dedicated  of  God,  our 
Eternal  Father,  for  the  gathering  place  of  His  own.  I  believe  that  we 
will  come  to  the  conclusion  that  we  are  perfectly  safe  in  our  daily  walks 
and  talks,  if  and  when  we  devote  ourselves  to  God's  great  work,  in  the 
right  spirit. 

THE  LIBERTY  BELL 

You  know  that  through  one  hundred  and  eighty-four  years  there 
has  now  come  down  to  us  a  rather  national  emblem — ■  it  has  become 
almost  a  shrine.  I  speak  of  the  old  Liberty  Bell,  which,  though  voice- 
less for  these  many  years,  has  served  so  well,  and  which  was  eagerly 
looked  upon  by  the  people  on  July  4th,  1776,  as  it  rang  forth  its  message 
that  this  country  was  in  very  deed  free  from  tyranny  and  free  from  that 
which  had  caused  mankind  so  much  distress.  You  know  it  was  brought 
from  England  in  1732,  and  it  rested  in  the  State  House  in  Philadelphia 
for  a  number  of  years.  Then  in  1753  it  cracked  and  was  remolded  by 
American  workmen.   This  did  not  last  very  long.   It  cracked  again,  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dag 


then  was  remolded.  But  the  strange  thing  to  me  is  this,  that  some  twenty- 
five  years  prior  to  its  being  cast  the  last  time,  out  of  the  scripture  men 
sought  that  which  was  molded  into  its  crown  and  that  was,  as  it  came 
from  the  holy  writ :  "Proclaim  liberty  throughout  all  the  land,  unto  the 
inhabitants  thereof." 

Now,  this  bell  was  in  use  by  the  City  of  Philadelphia  until  July 
8th,  1836,  when  it  cracked  while  being  tolled  at  the  funeral  of  Chief 
Justice  John  Marshall. 


It  seems  strange  that  God  has  prepared  the  way  for  His  people,  and 
perhaps  strange  to  us  that  God  is  now  preparing  the  way  for  His  people, 
but  such  is  the  case.  In  the  beginning  of  this  earth  of  ours  for  this 
thing  which  God  prepared  for  His  children,  He  gave  some  definite, 
pointed  instructions,  and  was  rather  jealous  of  what  He  said  and  what 
He  desired,  and  to  us  have  come  these  things  which  we  would  like  to  obey 
and  love  to  keep. 

God  has  also  given  unto  each  of  us  the  one  and  only  tool  by  which  we 
might  gain  honor  and  success  and  exaltation,  or  on  the  other  hand,  misery 
and  disgrace  and  absolute  degradation.  Now,  that  tool  is  the  free  agency 
of  man  to  choose  between  right  and  wrong,  and  God  has  safeguarded  it, 
from  time  to  time  called  our  attention  to  it,  and  brought  it  home  to  us. 

LIGHT  AND  UNDERSTANDING  TO  BE  STRIVEN  FOR 

I  read  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  this : 

Wherefore,  he  that  preacheth  and  he  that  receiveth,  understand  one 
another,  and  both  are  edified  and  repoice  together. 

And  that  which  doth  not  edify  is  not  of  God,  and  is  darkness. 

That  which  is  of  God  is  light;  and  he  that  receiveth  light,  and  con- 
tinueth  in  God,  receiveth  more  light;  and  that  light  groweth  brighter  and 
brighter  until  the  perfect  day 

And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  and  I  say  it  that  you  may  know 
the  truth,  that  you  may  chase  darkness  from  among  you; 

He  that  is  ordained  of  God  and  sent  forth,  the  same  is  appointed  to 
be  the  greatest,  notwithstanding  he  is  the  least  and  the  servant  ol  all. 

I  feel  that  we  should  never  imagine  that  we  have  seen  the  light  at 
one  time,  and  it  becomes  therefore  unnecessary  for  us  constantly  to 
strive  to  glimpse  those  flashes  from  heaven  that  are  coming  to  us,  as  they 
did  in  the  past.  I  would  that  we  might  open  the  windows  of  our  souls 
and  receive  that  light  which  God  desires  to  give  and  is  giving  to  his  people. 


You  recall  when  Christ  was  with  His  Twelve,  one  thing  that  has 
always  rather  impressed  itself  upon  me,  was  the  time  when  the  Twelve 
and  Christ  were  together,  and  the  Twelve,  some  of  them  were  contending, 
one  with  the  other,  as  to  who  might  be  on  the  right-hand  side  of  God 
and  who  on  the  left,  and  these  things  were  said:  (This  is  in  Mark,  the 
tenth  chapter.) 


FREE  AGENCY  A  GIFT  FROM  GOD 


LEADERSHIP  THROUGH  SERVICE 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 


57 


But  Jesus  called  them  to  him,  and  saith  unto  them,  Ye  know  that 
they  which  are  accounted  to  rule  over  the  Gentiles  exercise  lordship  over 
them ;  and  their  great  ones  exercise  authority  upon  them. 

But  so  shall  it  not  be  among  you ;  but  whosoever  will  be  great  among 
you,  shall  be  your  minister ; 

And  whosoever  of  you  will  be  the  chiefest,  shall  be  servant  of  all. 

The  salvation  of  man  is  not  brought  about  by  force  or  coercion  or  the 
powers  of  dictatorship.  These  are  not  the  methods  God  has  used,  nor  are 
they  the  methods  God  will  use. 

Refer  to  your  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  and  read  in  Moses  that  which 
God  gave  to  us  then : 

And  I,  the  Lord  God,  spake  unto  Moses,  saying :  That  Satan,  whom  thou 
hast  commanded  in  the  name  of  mine  Only  Begotten,  is  the  same  which  was 
from  the  beginning,  and  he  came  before  me,  saying — Behold,  here  am  I, 
send  me.  I  will  be  thy  son,  and  I  will  redeem  all  mankind,  that  one  soul 
shall  not  be  lost,  and  surely  I  will  do  it;  wherefore  give  me  thine  honor. 

But  behold,  my  Beloved  Son,  which  was  my  Beloved  and  Chosen  from 
the  beginning,  said  unto  me — Father,  thy  will  be  done,  and  the  glory  be 
thine  forever. 

Wherefore,  because  that  Satan  rebelled  against  me,  and  sought  to 
destroy  the  agency  of  man,  which  I  the  Lord  God,  had  given  him,  and  also, 
that  I  sriould  give  unto  him  mine  own  power,  by  the  power  of  mine  Only 
Begotten,  I  caused  that  he  should  be  cast  down. 

Constantly  there  has  come  ringing  into  our  ears  these  admonitions, 
these  things,  which  bring  us  up  standing,  to  realize  that  it  is  God  who 
speaks  to  His  people,  to  direct  them  and  to  cause  that  their  minds  may 
run  in  the  proper  channels. 

god's  word  given  to  his  people 

The  following  was  given  in  a  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith : 

Who  am  I  that  made  man,  saith  the  Lord,  that  will  hold  him  guiltless 
that  obeys  not  my  commandments? 

Who  am  I,  saith  the  Lord,  that  have  promised  and  have  not  fulfilled  ? 

I  command  and  men  obey  not ;  I  revoke  and  they  receive  not  the  bless- 
ing. 

Then  they  say  in  their  hearts  :  This  is  not  the  work  of  the  Lord,  for  his 
promises  are  not  fulfilled.  But  woe  unto  such,  for  their  reward  lurketh 
beneath,  and  not  from  above. 

Now.  these  passages  of  scripture  that  I  have  read  to  you,  I  have  read 
them  for  this  one  purpose,  and  they  have  led  me  to  this  thought,  that 
every  single  last  soul  of  us  here,  and  all  the  members  of  this  great  Church 
of  God,  scattered  throughout  the  length  and  breadth  of  the  land,  have 
seen  the  light,  and  we  have  had  that  light  confirmed  by  the  testimony  of 
the  Holy  Ghost  in  our  hearts  and  souls,  that  this  is  God's  work,  that  God 
in  His  own  way  has  wrought  and  brought  to  pass  that  which  you  and  I 
now  behold. 

Think  of  God's  message.  Think  of  His  methods,  the  choosing  of 
Moses,  the  call  of  Abraham,  and  the  placing  of  Joseph  sold  into  Egypt, 
the  sending  of  His  Only  Begotten  Son  among  the  children  of  men,  to 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  5  Second  Day 

bring  about  that  which  Christ  wrought,  which  is  sung  by  the  millions  upon 
this  earth  here  today.  Then  think  of  the  marvelous  thing  that  He  did  in 
His  quiet,  unostentatious  manner ;  how  Moroni  appeared  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  to  bring  forth  this  great  work  that  you  and  I  are  now  en- 
gaged in. 

All  this  being  true,  all  this  having  been  revealed  to  us,  we  knowing 
of  its  truth  and  virtue,  I  think  is  it  quite  necessary  that  we  bring  our- 
selves to  understand  that  with  the  establishment  here  upon  this  earth  of 
God's  prophet,  God's  servants,  we  can  say  in  our  hearts  that  these 
are  the  servants  of  God,  chosen  absolutely  and  literally  by  Him  for  the 
guidance  o'f  His  people  here  upon  this  earth. 

SUCCESS  IN  LOCAL  MISSIONARY  WORK 

Now,  just  one  word:  I  am  thrilled  with  that  which  has  been  told  to 
you  people  by  Brother  Richards,  Apostle  George  F.  Richards,  concerning 
the  work  which  is  going  on  here  in  the  Stakes  of  Zion.  Your  sons  and 
daughters  have  been  sent  abroad.  They  have  been  marvelously  blessed. 
But  here  in  your  own  Stakes,  up  and  down  these  great  stretches,  your 
sons  and  husbands  and  daughters  and  wives  are  in  this  great  missionary 
work,  and  up  to  July  of  this  year  we  were  just  fifty-one  baptisms 
ahead  of  the  same  time  last  year ;  and  during  this  last  month  one  hundred 
ninety-four  men  joined  this  Church,  who  never  knew  of  its  truth  before. 

So  I  rejoice,  and  say  to  you  I  feel  that  it  is  not  necessary  that  we 
should  feel  overly  concerned  about  what  will  happen  to  us,  if  we  will 
do  that  which  God  desires  us  to  do. 

God  bless  you,  I  pray  in  Jesus'  name,  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  had  rather  half-heartedly  cherished  the  idea  that  the  broadcast 
tomorrow  morning  would  be  accepted  as  my  contribution  to  this  Confer- 
ence. It  was  almost  the  case  six  months  ago,  but  five  minutes  at  the  last 
of  the  closing  session  saved  the  establishment  of  such  a  precedent,  I 
am  sorry  to  say. 

Usually  when  I  occupy  this  position,  which  is  at  least  once  a  week 
and  often  two  or  three  times  a  week,  I  have  the  benefit  of  a  radio  script 
in  front  of  me.  It  is  much  more  comfortable,  but  not  nearly  so  spon- 
taneous. I  ask  at  this  time  that  if  the  Lord  has  a  message  that  He  would 
like  me  to  speak,  He  will  prompt  it.  I  feel  very  weak  in  addressing 
this  congregation. 

THE  NEED  FELT  FOR  TRUE  LEADERSHIP 

In  our  conduct  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  broadcast  over  the  nation- 
wide Columbia  network  each  Sunday  morning,  and  over  the  nation-wide 
Canadian  Radio  Commission  stations,  and  also  by  short  wave  and  by 
electrical  transcription  across  the  seas  and  into  other  continents,  we 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


59 


receive  mail  postmarked  from  almost  every  section  of  the  globe,  and 
literally  from  every  nook  and  corner  of  America. 

This  mail  reveals  that  people  are  hungry  for  leadership,  that  they 
are  searching  earnestly  for  a  foundation  on  which  to  place  their  feet, 
for  a  fixed  destination  toward  which  to  strive,  and  that  they  are  sick  to 
death  of  the  confusion  and  the  contradiction  that  they  see  about  them. 
This  hunger  for  leadership  in  one  sense  is  a  very  happy  thing,  and  in 
another  sense  it  may  be  a  very  dangerous  thing.  When  people  are  in 
that  frame  of  mind  it  makes  it  much  easier  for  a  false  leader  to  win 
their  following. 

I  am  impressed  with  the  fact  that  our  responsibility  in  this  Church 
is  the  responsibility  of  leadership,  and  that  we  must  take  it,  whatever 
it  may  cost  us,  because  the  Lord  has  told  us  that  we  have  been  sent  to  be 
a  light  unto  the  world  and  to  be  saviors  of  men ;  and  if  we  don't  give 
this  leadership,  others  will  assume  it,  to  the  sorrow  of  mankind  and  to 
our  own  condemnation.  I  feel  sure  that  this  leadership  must  enter  into 
all  of  the  activities  of  living. 

President  Clark  mentioned  here,  yesterday  morning,  the  fact  that 
our  fathers  and  grandfathers  had  prayed  over  the  land  and  the  water 
and  the  air,  and  all  of  the  physical  elements  of  production,  much  to  their 
credit  and  to  their  blessing.  I  feel  sure  that  we  need  to  pray  over  a  good 
many  other  things,  including  our  scholarship,  our  academic  activities,  our 
political  activities,  our  social  activities.  I  am  sure  that  we  need  to  pray 
over  every  phase  of  thought  and  of  life. 

It  is  a  very  difficult  thing  to  take  leadership  in  this  day — so  much 
is  being  discovered;  so  much  is  happening;  so  confused  are  the  issues,  I 
think  it  safe  to  say,  without  contradiction,  that  in  a  public  sense  we  can't 
be  sure  of  much  of  what  we  hear  or  much  of  what  we  see  or  much  of  what 
we  read ;  that  the  phrase,  "evil  and  designing  men,"  has  a  much  broader 
application,  than  the  limited  sense  in  which  we  use  it  in  connection  with 
the  Word  of  Wisdom.  Those  things  that  are  printed  and  spoken  to 
shape  our  thinking,  in  all  fields  of  communication  and  human  contact, 
are  largely  designed  and  colored  and  adulterated  and  modified  to  bring 
men  into  the  line  of  thought  of  other  men,  often  without  regard  to  the 
facts  or  the  truth  of  the  matter  in  question.  It  is  very  difficult  to  know, 
and  I  think  man  unaided,  of  himself,  and  without  some  Higher  Help, 
cannot  know  what  to  believe  and  what  not  to  believe  of  the  maze  of 
material  that  daily  passes  before  our  eyes  and  comes  within  the  range  of 
our  hearing. 

THE  SEARCH  FOR  TRUTH 

A  cherished  friend  of  mine,  whose  life  paralleled  mine  for  many 
years,  up  to  a  few  years  ago,  when  there  was  a  parting  of  the  ways,  is 
now  in  one  of  America's  greatest  institutions  of  learning,  and  has  achieved 
international  eminence  in  his  scientific  field.  A  few  weeks  ago  he  wrote 
me  and  said :  "I  am  conducting  researches  in  many  fields,  and  I  am  just 
beginning  to  learn  the  high  cost  of  finding  out  the  truth  about  anything." 


60  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  5  Second  Day 

And  he  continued:  "The  problem  is  so  complex  that  all  we  can  do  is 
arrive  at  half-truths  and  first  approximations." 

I  wrote  him  back  and  said :  "It  must  be  a  great  comfort  to  you,  in 
your  work,  to  know  that  you  are  a  member  of  a  Church  that  will  accept 
everything  of  truth  that  you  ever  find  in  your  researches,  in  whatever 
field  of  thought  or  activity,  and  all  that  we  ask  of  you  is  to  pursue  them 
beyond  that  stage  of  half-truth  and  first  approximations  of  which  you 
have  spoken,  and  conduct  them  to  their  final  end,  where  there  will  be 
no  question  about  their  eternal  verity — to  that  point  where  the  generations 
to  come  will  not  of  necessity  repudiate  them." 

I  have  a  strong  feeling  that  our  young  people  who  go  into  our 
universities  and  colleges  should  have  before  them  constantly  the  promise 
of  Moroni,  that  "by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ye  may  know  the  truth 
of  all  things,"  which  is  repeated  in  substance  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants to  the  effect  that  "the  Holy  Ghost .  .  .  showeth  all  things  and  teach- 
eth  the  peaceable  things  of  the  kingdom."  I  never  remember  having 
gone  into  an  examination  of  any  consequence  in  my  life  without  making 
it  a  matter  of  prayer.  I  know  that  the  young  man  or  young  woman 
who  approaches  any  problem  in  the  academic  field,  or  any  other  field, 
would  have  a  great  advantage  if  he  would  keep  as  his  constant  companion 
the  spirit  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  which  would  give  him  an  active  sense 
of  warm  assurance  when  he  was  in  the  presence  of  truth,  and  would  give 
him  a  contrary  feeling  when  he  was  not  in  the  presence  of  truth.  It 
wouldn't  give  him  knowledge  without  study,  or  discovery  without  search, 
or  truth  without  effort,  but,  granted  that  he  pursued  his  work  intelli- 
gently and  diligently,  he  would  have  a  great  advantage  in  all  of  his 
findings  and  doings,  academically  and  otherwise,  if  he  made  the  spirit 
of  all  truth  his  constant  guide. 

STRENGTH  COMES  THROUGH  PRAYER 

This  is  the  thing  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  that  helps  them  to  take 
leadership  regardless  of  the  confusion  and  the  contradiction  about  us. 
I  know  that  in  my  home  my  widowed  mother  was  constantly  in  an 
attitude  of  prayer.  My  most  vivid  memory  of  her — and  I  cherish  it 
dearly — is  a  memory  of  her  on  her  knees,  pleading  with  the  Lord,  her 
Father  in  heaven,  for  a  solution  to  the  many  problems  and  difficulties 
that  beset  her  life.  I  suppose  that  I  had  had  as  much  formal  education 
by  the  time  I  was  fourteen  years  old,  in  terms  of  days  spent  in  school, 
as  she  had  had  in  all  her  life,  and  yet  after  I  had  had  the  privilege  of 
acquiring  university  degrees  I  could  still  go  to  her  when  I  was  troubled, 
and  find  the  right  counsel  and  the  right  answers  to  whatever  was  con- 
fronting me,  and  I  am  grateful  to  have  had  such  a  mother  and  such  a 
home,  and  to  have  had  evidence  of  the  effectiveness  of  that  approach, 
that  promise  which  through  prayer  and  through  diligence  and  through 
walking  in  the  ways  of  our  Father,  makes  it  possible  for  the  Latter-day 
Saints  to  assume  leadership,  and  we  can  do  it  in  no  other  way,  except 
by  keeping  constantly  in  touch  with  the  spirit  of  our  Father  in  heaven, 
by  which  we  may  know  the  truth  of  all  things. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


61 


This  is  our  promise,  if  we  live  for  it.  It  is  the  means  whereby  we 
can  take  leadership  in  spiritual  matters,  in  economic  affairs,  in  social 
conditions,  and  in  all  the  ways  of  life — and  the  only  way. 

SAFETY  IN  FOLLOWING  TRUE  LEADERSHIP 

Besides  this  we  have  our  living  prophet,  for  whom  I  am  grateful, 
and  I  hope  to  follow  after  him  all  the  days  of  my  life.  I  know  that  when 
I  don't  follow  him  I  am  wrong,  and  I  know  that  when  I  do  I  am  right, 
even  if  I  don't  agree  with  him.  To  those  who  only  follow  him  when 
they  do  agree  with  him  he  is  not  a  prophet  unto  them.  I  am  grateful  to 
the  Lord  for  preserving  the  life  of  President  Grant.  I  know  that  the 
leadership  of  this  people  is  a  responsibility  that  weighs  heavily  upon 
him,  and  that  he  would  avoid  it  if  he  could,  ofttimes,  but  he  has  no  choice 
in  the  matter ;  and  by  looking  to  his  counsel  and  example  we  may  also 
be  helped  to  know  when  we  are  right  and  when  we  are  not  right  in  the 
presence  of  all  the  confusion  we  see  about  us. 

I  wish  to  leave  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  He  shall  one  day  reign  upon  this  earth,  in  His 
own  time,  and  that  all  those  things  that  the  prophets  have  spoken  in  all 
generations  will  come  to  pass,  regardless  of  the  belief  or  unbelief  of 
men;  and  that  he  who  leads  us  today  speaks  for  God  in  the  affairs  of 
this  world  in  this  generation. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you  and  be  with  you  and  help  you  to  give' the 
leadership  that  the  Lord  intends  that  you  shall  give,  lest  others  take  it, 
and  lest  we  thereby  be  condemned  for  not  having  taken  the  place  that 
was  rightfully  ours,  and  for  which  we  had  the  guidance  if  we  had  lived 
according  to  the  laws  of  God,  our  Father. 

May  He  bless  us  all.  I  ask,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  bartone  solo:  If  Christ  Came  Back  Today,"  (by  O'Hara),  was 
sung  by  Elder  Walter  Welti. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

This  crowded  house  on  a  week-day  with  beautiful  weather,  is  an 
answer  to  the  cry  of  the  ancient  prophet  of  Israel :  "There  is  faith  in 
Israel."  It  is  good  to  be  one  of  you  in  this,  the  Church  of  Christ. 

I  have  been  impressed  to  speak  to  a  theme  which  may  not  be  strictly 
spiritual,  but  which  in  its  relations  to  Gospel  living  seems  to  me  to  be  of 
prime  importance. 

PREPAREDNESS  A  PART  OF  THE  GOSPEL  PLAN 

Preparedness  is  today  on  every  tongue.  There  is  danger  ahead,  and 
defenses  must  be  set  up.  Preparedness  is  not  a  new  word  to  Latter-day 
Saints.  For  one  hundred  and  ten  years  our  voice  has  been  one  of  warning 
to  prepare  against  the  commotion  and  calamities  of  the  last  days.  We 
have  taught  and  continue  to  teach  that  full  preparedness  and  complete 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  5  Second  Day 

defense  against  the  devastation  by  evil  is  the  acceptance  of  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  When  every  knee  shall  bow  and  every  tongue  confess 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  we  may  look  for  the  peace  of  Eden,  but  not  before. 

Our  land  is  setting  up  defenses  of  powder  and  steel.  That  is  well 
enough.  But  there  are  intangible  defenses  more  powerful  which  direct 
the  use  of  material  defenses.  These  must  be  fostered,  if  our  preparedness 
shall  be  adequate.  To  one  of  these  defenses  I  call  your  attention — to 
the  education  we  give  our  children,  particularly  in  schools,  as  a  determin- 
ing defense  against  evil. 

TRUE  EDUCATION  A  PROTECTION  AGAINST  EVIL 

Latter-day  Saints  believe  in  education ;  the  Church  itself  is  but  a 
great  teaching  institution.  We  understand  that  to  learn  we  must  be 
taught ;  and  also  that  our  actions  are  determined  largely  by  the  teachings 
we  receive.    Therefore,  we  teach  our  children  as  a  preparation  for  life. 

The  example  was  set  by  the  Lord.  When  Adam  and  Eve  were 
placed  in  the  Garden  of  Eden,  in  forgetfulness  of  their  past,  the  Lord 
came  and  taught  them  the  Gospel.  This  was  done  again  later,  to  others, 
as  eternal  truth  was  forgotten  or  corrupted  among  the  children  of  men. 

There  is  no  place  for  ignorance  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Light 
and  truth,  ever  increasing,  the  only  safe  protection  against  evil,  must  ever 
guide  this  people  and  all  the  world,  if  humanity  shall  find  peace  and 
happiness. 

Thus  has  come  the  exceedingly  high  educational  standing  of  Latter- 
day  Saints — above  that  of  any  other  group  of  like  numbers  in  the  world. 
We  expect  ever  to  seek  after  knowledge  and  to  share  in  the  great  truth- 
advances  of  these  latter  days. 

However,  knowledge  alone  contributes  little  to  human  welfare.  Only 
when  used  for  the  good  of  man  does  it  acquire  real  value.  "The  Glory 
of  God  is  intelligence" ;  but  the  intelligent  man  gathers  knowledge  and 
proceeds  to  use  it  in  harmony  with  the  divine  plan  of  salvation — for 
the  blessing  of  the  children  of  men.  True  learning  comes  when  knowledge 
is  used.  Correct  use  gives  life  to  knowledge.  In  Mormon  terminology, 
wisdom  and  intelligence  are  synonymous.  Wisdom  in  the  use  of  knowl- 
edge is  as  important  as  knowledge  itself. 

Such  beliefs  have  made  the  Latter-day  Saints  supporters  of  all 
sound  educational  endeavors.  We  look  upon  our  public  schools,  from 
kindergarten  to  university,  as  the  finest  expression  of  democracy.  They 
are  levelers  and  equalizers  of  our  citizenry.  They  offer  the  even  chance 
in  life  for  rich  and  poor,  weak  and  strong. 

THE  DUTY  OF  SCHOOLS 

Therefore,  we  have  given  our  public  schools  a  great  trust ;  and  have 
endowed  them  with  tremendous  power.  Our  children  are  in  their  keeping 
during  most  of  the  formative  years  of  life.  As  the  schools  teach  so  will 
the  coming  generation  think  and  act.  The  conditions  in  our  land  today, 
good  or  bad,  may  well  be  laid  at  the  doors  of  our  schools,  which  nourished 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


63 


us  in  our  immaturity  with  ideals  which  in  our  maturity  are  being  trans- 
lated into  action. 

In  return  for  this  trust  we  expect  our  schools  to  be  preservers  of 
the  principles  of  human  welfare ;  bulwarks  against  every  insidious,  sub- 
versive foe  of  human  freedom ;  defenses  against  all  invaders  of  human 
rights;  teachers  of  the  way  from  war  to  peace,  from  poverty  to  pros- 
perity. In  times  of  moral,  social  or  economic  upheaval,  our  schools, 
ideal-builders,  must  be  among  the  nation's  most  powerful  defenses.  We 
rely  on  our  schools,  for  example,  to  prevent  the  unspeakable,  blazing 
evil  now  raging  in  Europe  from  starting  a  conflagration  in  our  land. 
We  teach  with  easy  precision  protection  against  communicable  diseases. 
It  is  more  important  to  teach  immunity  against  untruth;  to  show  how 
the  fruits  of  our  civilization  may  be  preserved  and  increased.  Among 
the  many  instruments  of  democracy,  the  schools  must  stand  foremost  in 
preparing  the  people  against  coming  evils,  and  for  a  better  future  day. 

We  are  in  the  midst  of  a  changing  day.  It  is  folly  to  believe  that  we 
can  go  on  happily  with  millions  of  men  unemployed,  and  as  many  millions 
living  under  an  inadequate  standard  of  living.  There  will  needs  be  much 
readjustment  to  secure  prosperity  for  all.  Many  activities  must  be  re- 
directed to  make  every  able-bodied  person  self-supporting.  In  this  re- 
alignment of  forces,  and  reorganization  of  resources,  the  schools  must 
take  an  active,  practical  part. 

To  do  this,  to  be  worthy  of  their  high  commission  in  this  troubled 
day,  two  major  objectives  must  be  courageously  reemphasized  and  ac- 
complished by  our  schools. 

RELIGIOUS  TRAINING  MUST  BE  ENCOURAGED 

First,  moral  and  religious  education  must  be  given  hereafter  an 
honorable  and  corresponding  place  by  the  side  of  the  traditionally  im- 
portant subjects  of  the  curriculum.  For  the  safety  of  the  nation,  moral 
teaching  should  be  given,  at  definite  hours,  in  every  publicly  supported 
classroom.  There  must  be  eager  cooperation  with  every  project,  such 
as  our  L.  D.  S.  Seminaries  and  Institutes,  to  supply  religious  instruction 
outside  the  school.  There  must  be  no  whining  and  hiding  behind  a 
misinterpretation  of  the  constitutional  provision  for  religious  liberty.  We 
still  say  on  our  coins,  "In  God  we  trust."  There  must  be  no  attempt 
to  place  the  sole  responsibility  upon  the  Church.  The  strongest  defense 
of  this  or  any  other  nation  is  not  of  sword  and  shot,  of  long  range  cannon 
and  bombs  from  the  sky.  It  lies  in  the  spiritual  domain  of  life,  among 
the  intangibles.  The  human  will,  according  to  its  training,  determines 
whether  steel  shall  be  shaped  into  swords  or  plowshares.  The  "fifth 
column"  and  other  corroding  influences,  and  all  evil,  often  disdainful  of 
exploding  bombs,  are  conquered  and  chained  only  by  spiritual  weapons. 
Thinking  citizens,  the  country  over,  are  recognizing  the  danger  of  a 
citizenry,  untaught  and  untrained  in  the  moral  and  spiritual  principles 
upon  which  human  welfare  has  ever  rested.  Unless  our  schools  reso- 
lutely place  such  training  foremost,  they  will  have  sown  to  the  whirlwind. 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  5  Second  Day 

IMPORTANCE  OF  PRACTICAL  EDUCATION 

Second,  the  right  of  way,  after  moral  and  religious  training,  in 
every  school  and  college  curriculum,  must  be  given  to  useful  knowledge 
■ — knowledge  that  may  be  used  in  making  a  living,  in  meeting  the  actual 
and  daily  needs  of  life.  Unless  this  is  done  our  physical  defenses  will 
prove  inadequate,  and  economic  chaos  will  increase.  We  must  dignify 
and  ennoble  the  necessary  tasks  of  life,  to  secure  contentment  among 
humanity. 

The  activities  of  life  center  upon  the  business  of  making  a  living. 
Every  man  worthy  of  life  desires  to  be  able  to  sustain  himself  and  a 
family  of  his  own.  This  has  always  been  an  objective  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  In  our  welfare  program  the  need  of  caring  for  the  poor,  necessary 
and  beautiful  as  it  is,  is  less  important  than  the  attempt  to  find  ways  and 
means  to  enable  the  poor  to  provide  for  themselves,  and  to  raise  the 
standard  of  living  of  all  to  meet  their  natural  wants  properly.  Universal 
self-support  will  be  a  mighty  defense  against  any  enemy.  A  contented, 
self-supporting  people  will  resist  the  cheap,  enslaving  offerings  of  evil. 

Practical  education  must  be  featured  as  never  before.  Men  and 
women  must  be  taught  how  to  use  the  natural  resources  about  them  for 
their  support  in  life.  The  economic  possibilities  must  be  set  forth,  of 
waters,  soils,  forests,  mountains  and  hills.  To  solve  the  problems  of 
the  day,  and  of  tomorrow,  we  need  more  trained  farmers  and  mechanics, 
skilled  craftsmen,  business  men  and  housewives  who  are  so  educated 
that  they  can  do  their  work  intelligently,  and  therefore  with  respect  for 
their  calling ;  and  who  are  ready  to  wrestle  joyfully  with  the  gifts  of  earth. 
For  these  are  the  only  true  producers  of  wealth.  There  would  be  more 
prosperity  and  home  happiness  if  more  men  toiled  with  the  hand  as  well 
as  with  the  head,  and  if  every  girl  were  trained  in  the  processes  of  main- 
taining and  running  a  household  successfully  with  emphasis  on  child 
care  and  training.  Such  education  for  boys  and  girls  should  begin  in  the 
lowest  grades  for  some  do  not  reach  high  school  and  many  fail  to  enter 
college. 

Such  education  does  not  require  special  industrial  or  vocational 
schools.  That  would  defeat  the  spirit  of  democracy,  for  every  boy,  rich 
or  poor,  should  learn  how  to  support  a  family,  and  every  normal  girl 
looks  forward  to  the  joys  of  wifehood  and  motherhood.  Besides  in  a  true 
democracy,  class  consciousness  must  be  avoided.  Such  important  training 
should  not  be  neglected  nor  left  to  chance.  Our  present  system  of  edu- 
cation should  direct  from  year  to  year,  from  grade  to  grade,  the  thought 
and  training  of  students  toward  the  application  of  knowledge  to  useful 
ends — life-sustaining  ends.  The  colleges  should  gladly  receive  students 
so  trained,  and  continue  the  training  under  college  environment. 

Culture  accompanies  such  training.  The  discipline  of  the  mind  is 
the  essence  of  culture.  The  so-called  "common  pursuits,"  have  in  later 
years  been  invested  with  a  variety  of  newly  discovered  knowledge.  They 
are  in  this  respect  not  surpassed  by  the  so-called  "professions."  The 
study  of  agriculture  and  home  making  may  be  made  as  cultural  as  of 
astronomy ;  or  of  our  own  government  as  that  of  ancient  Rome.  Failing 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


65 


to  recognize  this,  thousands  of  young  people  have  failed  to  find  their 
places  in  life.  They  find  no  jobs  for  they  have  not  been  trained  to  work, 
too  often  only  to  seek  to  avoid  work.  In  the  words  of  Brigham  Young, 
"Education  is  the  handmaid  to  honest  labor." 

Moreover,  they  who  have  learned  to  work,  and  who  have  acquired 
their  belongings  through  personal  toil,  are  the  safest  members  of  society. 
They  believe  in  private  property;  and  what  is  more,  they  believe  in 
allowing  others  to  gather  about  them  material  benefits.  They  will  be  the 
last  to  attempt  to  dispossess  others  of  property  won  through  honest  toil. 
Teaching  men  and  women  to  work  and  to  earn  a  living  is  the  best 
insurance  against  the  false  economic  doctrines  which  flood  the  land. 

OPPORTUNITIES  LIE  AHEAD 

One  other  thought  remains.  The  pioneers  who  entered  these  valleys 
conquered  the  desert  with  such  knowledge  and  strength  as  they  possessed. 
Since  that  day,  knowledge  has  increased  immeasurably.  By  the  inven- 
tion of  machines,  man's  strength  has  increased  a  thousand  fold.  Re- 
sources of  earth  lie  about  us  which  were  beyond  the  reach  of  the  early 
pioneers,  but  which  may  now  be  developed  with  our  new  knowledge 
and  added  power.  There  are  more  opportunities  for  youth  today  than 
in  the  pioneer  years.  It  is  our  own  fault  if  this  has  not  been  taught  by 
our  institutions  of  learning.  In  the  development  of  practical  education 
the  pointing  out  of  such  possibilities  will  be  of  major  importance. 

MORAL  AND  SPIRITUAL  TRAINING  ARE  FACTORS  AGAINST  EVIL 

If  the  schools  shall  be  powerful  factors  in  building  defenses  against 
evil,  and  in  preparing  against  the  enemy,  they  must  face  about  from 
traditional  views  and  give  undivided  attention  on  the  one  hand  to  moral 
and  spiritual  training,  and  on  the  other  to  practical  education.  Such 
teaching,  for  that  matter,  has  been  the  counsel  and  advice  of  the  Church 
from  the  beginning.   Never  was  it  needed  more  than  now. 

We  who  have  been  entrusted  with  parenthood  must  anxiously  plan 
for  the  welfare  of  our  children  and  the  coming  generations.  If  changes 
are  needed,  let  us  make  them.  The  schools  are  ours,  and  the  responsibility 
for  the  coming  race  is  ours.  The  time  has  come  when  schools  must  train 
our  children  for  safe  living,  that  is  for  greatest  usefulness,  which 
means  greatest  happiness. 

The  vast  majority  of  the  teaching  profession,  looking  into  the  future, 
agree  in  the  main  with  the  view  which  I  have  here  expressed.  They 
recognize  that  schools  must  reflect  the  wishes  of  the  people,  by  whom 
they  are  supported ;  and  as  good  citizens,  themselves,  are  ready  to  help 
our  schools  foster  truth  and  destroy  evil,  thus  making  them  main  de- 
fenses of  our  nation. 

As  a  Church  we  have  always  tried  to  be  in  the  forefront  of  pro- 
gressive changes.  An  uncertain  future  looms  before  us.  As  far  as  we 
have  influence  we  should  turn  our  educational  endeavors  towards  a 
secure  and  happy  future.  If  we  do  so,  we  shall  help  build  a  mighty 
defense  against  threatened  disaster. 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  5  Second  Day 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

The  outstanding  characteristic  or  difference  between  the  religion 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  that  of  the  various  churches  in  the  world 
is  the  fact  that  God  has  endowed  this  work  with  power  from  on  high.  In 
other  words,  divine  authority  is  the  distinguishing  feature  between  the 
Church  of  God  and  the  churches  of  men,  that  have  been  established  by  a 
great  many  various  sects  of  so-called  Christianity. 

PLAN  OF  SALVATION  OF  DIVINE  ORIGIN 

The  principle  of  authority  was  made  manifest  in  the  very  beginning 
of  the  promulgation  of  God's  work,  and  that  occurred  in  that  primeval 
day,  before  the  earth  was  created,  when  God  had  assembled  together 
His  sons  and  His  daughters  to  hear  the  glad  tidings  of  great  joy. 

It  is  only  a  natural  and  obvious  conclusion  which  everybody  should 
concede  that  if  there  be  a  plan  of  life  and  salvation,  that  it  must  be  one  of 
divine  origin,  for  only  God  can  save  His  children.  And  we  ought  to  re- 
cognize the  fact  that  we  are  here  in  a  state  of  mortality ;  that  death  has 
come  into  the  world  as  a  result  of  disobedience  in  the  Garden  of  Eden, 
under  very  peculiar  circumstances ;  and  the  purpose  of  this  thing  is  that 
mankind  might  be  given  the  privilege  of  choosing  between  good  and  evil, 
and  undergoing  a  test  or  a  trial,  and  for  that  purpose  God  created  this 
earth  and  placed  His  children  upon  it,  that  we  might  receive  that  educa- 
tion and  that  knowledge  and  understanding,  that  education  pertaining  to 
our  spiritual  and  temporal  welfare,  that  we  might  be  able  to  combat  with 
the  powers  of  evil. 

How  could  we  ever  be  saved,  how  could  we  ever  be  exalted,  unless  we 
should  have  the  benefit  of  this  earth  life  experience,  and  be  in  attendance 
and  ready  to  learn  in  God's  great  school  which  He  has  established  for 
the  education  and  benefit  and  blessing  of  His  children  ?  It  must  be  then 
conceded  that  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation  would  be  one  that  was  de- 
vised by  the  Lord  Himself,  and  cannot  be  of  any  human  invention.  That 
being  the  case,  we  must  look  to  Him  for  that  all- wise  plan  and  for  that 
perfect  system  by  which  we  may  be  prepared  to  receive  what  God  in- 
tends we  shall  receive. 

man's  three  estates 

There  are  three  estates  of  man :  The  first  estate  was  when  we  dwelt 
with  God  as  His  spirit  children,  in  His  holy  habitation,  before  the  world 
was  made,  as  we  read  in  our  favorite  hymn : 

O  my  Father,  thou  that  dwellest 

In  the  high  and  glorious  place, 
When  shall  I  regain  thy  presence 

And  again  behold  Thy  face? 

In  thy  holy  habitation 

Did  my  spirit  once  reside? 
In  my  first  primeval  childhood 

Was  I  nurtured  near  Thy  side? 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


67 


That  tells,  in  those  beautiful  lines  of  Eliza  R.  Snow,  what  occurred 
before  the  world  was  made,  to  which  the  Lord  referred  when  He  said 
unto  His  servant  Job : 

Where  wast  thou  when  I  laid  the  foundations  of  the  earth?  Declare, 
if  thou  hast  uderstanding.  *  *  * 

When  the  morning  stars  sang  together,  and  all  the  sons  of  God  shouted 
for  joy. 

That  is  a  question  that  implies  a  great  deal.  It  contemplates  and  in- 
fers that  there  was  a  time  and  a  place  where  God  had  assembled  His 
children  together  to  hear  a  proclamation.  What  was  the  occasion?  We 
are  told  there  that  it  was  a  time  of  rejoicing,  and  the  Lord  had  assembled 
His  sons,  and  His  daughters,  too,  I  doubt  not,  to  hear  the  glad  tidings  of 
great  joy.  It  was  the  proclamation  of  God's  plan  for  the  salvation  of  His 
children,  for  the  education  and  the  improvement  of  the  children  of  God. 
It  involved  the  creation  of  this  earth,  and  it  involved  the  knowledge  of 
good  and  evil,  that  we  might  be  tried,  and  for  this  purpose  was  it  created 
that  we  might  in  our  second  estate  through  obedience  to  His  plan  qualify 
ourselves  for  the  third  estate,  namely:  eternal  life  in  the  Kingdom  of 
God. 

COVENANTS  MADE  BY  THE  LORD 

We  read  all  through  the  scriptures,  both  in  ancient  and  in  modern 
scriptures,  that  the  Lord  has  made  a  covenant  with  His  people.  He  has 
always  called  those  to  whom  He  has  given  a  dispensation  of  His  prov- 
idence, "His  covenant  people".  What  was  that  covenant?  We  hear  a 
great  many  talk  about  the  new  and  everlasting  covenant,  even  among  our 
own  people,  and  we  sometimes  jump  at  the  conclusion  that  it  refers  ex- 
clusively to  the  marriage  covenant.  The  marriage  covenant  is  truly  a 
very  great  and  important  part  of  that  everlasting  covenant,  but  it  is  only 
a  part. 

The  Lord  made  it  known  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  as  you  will 
find  it  recorded  in  Section  66,  paragraph  2,  of  the  Doctrine  and  Coven- 
ants, that  the  "new  and  everlasting  covenant"  is  nothing  more  or  less 
than  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  its  fulness,  as  it  was  reveal- 
ed and  proclaimed  in  that  primeval  day  when  the  great  and  noble  ones,  or 
the  "morning  stars,"  sang  together  and  all  the  sons  of  God  shouted  for 
joy — the  day  the  Lord  made  known  to  them  the  terms  of  His  everlasting 
covenant,  setting  forth  what  He  expects  us  to  do,  and  also  informing  us 
what  He  will  do  if  we  comply. 

What  is  a  covenant?  Our  standard  dictionaries  define  a  covenant 
as  "an  agreement  entered  into  between  two  or  more  persons  or  parties." 
It  is  just  such  an  agreement  that  the  Lord  promulgated  and  announced 
to  His  spirit  children,  that  filled  their  hearts  with  joy  and  gladness,  and 
whereupon  the  morning  stars,  the  great  and  noble  ones,  sang  together  and 
all  of  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God  made  the  heavens  ring  with  the 
shouts  of  joy  and  gladness  over  these  glad  tidings. 

It  is  that  one  and  only  way  that  the  Lord  has  ever  revealed,  that  one 
and  only  plan,  that  one  and  only  Gospel  that  was  promulgated  in  that 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  5  Second  Dag 

early  day.  It  is  that  which  has  been  given  to  the  children  of  men  as  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation.  It  was  first  given  to  our  father  Adam,  af- 
ter his  expulsion  from  the  Garden  of  Eden.  The  Lord  revealed  that  cove- 
nant to  him,  and  explained  precisely  what  it  was  and  declared  that  it  was 
the  plan  of  salvation.  It  was  continued  with  Enoch,  and  was  also  re-es- 
tablished with  Noah  and  his  sons  after  the  deluge. 

It  was  again  given  to  Abraham,  and  with  him  the  promises  of  the 
everlasting  covenant  were  made  as  frequently  as  stated  in  the  Bible,  and 
later  it  was  established  with  Moses  after  the  delivery  of  the  children  of 
Israel  from  their  long  bondage  in  the  land  of  Egypt  but  under  the  "lesser 
law,"  the  law  of  carnal  commandments,  the  rebellious  and  stiff-necked 
Israelites  not  being  prepared  for  the  higher  law,  but  were  given  the  les- 
ser law  as  a  school  master  to  bring  them  to  Christ ;  and  when  our  Lord 
came  in  the  meridian  of  time,  He  again  set  up  His  Church  and  established 
the  same  everlasting  covenant,  but  now  under  the  higher  law. 

In  the  light  of  these  various  dispensations,  we  can  readily  see  the 
meaning  of  the  words  of  our  Lord  and  Saviour,  Jesus  Christ,  which  I 
now  quote : 

O,  Jerusalem,  Jerusalem,  which  killest  the  prophets,  and  stonest  them 
that  are  sent  unto  thee ;  how  often  would  I  have  gathered  thy  children  to- 
gether, as  a  hen  doth  gather  her  brood  under  her  wings,  and  ye  would  not ! 
(Luke  13:34.) 

During  each  of  these  dispensations  many  generations  have  been 
brought  into  the  fold  by  entering  into  the  covenant  through  the  holy 
waters  of  baptism  and  have  gone  to  their  reward,  but  let  it  be  remember- 
ed that  the  Devil  and  his  angels  also  came  and  led  the  children  of  men 
again  into  darkness  and  error  and  a  general  falling  away  from  the  Truth 
ensued,  and  always  for  the  same  reason  as  it  was  described  by  the  Prophet 
Isaiah  when  he  said,  "because  they  have  transgressed  the  laws,  changed 
the  ordinance  and  broken  the  everlasting  covenant"  and  thus  the  earth 
has  been  defiled.  (Isaiah  24:5). 

ABRAHAM  SHOWN  SOME  OF  THE  LORD'S  WORK 

I  have  just  stated  that  it  was  with  Abraham  that  the  promises  were 
made ;  let  me  now  add  that  it  is  from  the  writings  of  Abraham  and  those 
of  Moses  that  we  learn  the  particulars  concerning  the  everlasting  cove- 
nant as  these  writings  are  contained  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  from 
which  I  now  quote : 

Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me,  Abraham,  the  intelligences  that 
were  organized  before  the  world  was ;  and  among  all  these  there  were  many 
of  the  noble  and  great  ones : 

And  God  saw  these  souls  that  they  were  good,  and  he  stood  in  the 
midst  of  them,  and  he  said :  These  I  will  make  my  rulers ;  for  he  stood 
among  those  that  were  spirits,  and  he  saw  that  they  were  good;  and  he 
said  unto  me,  Abraham,  thou  art  one  of  them ;  thou  wast  chosen  before  thou 
wast  born. 

And  there  stood  one  among  them  that  was  like  unto  God,  and  he  said 
unto  those  who  were  with  him :  We  will  go  down,  for  there  is  space  there, 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


69 


and  we  will  take  of  these  materials,  and  we  will  make  an  earth  whereon 
these  may  dwell ; 

And  we  will  prove  them  herewith,  to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things 
whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God  shall  command  them. 

That  is  our  part  in  the  covenant,  to  do  all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord 
our  God  shall  command  us.  All  things  that  the  Lord  our  God  shall  com- 
mand us  are  embodied  in  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  its  ful- 
ness, for  the  Lord  has  said  that  "man  lives  not  by  bread  alone,  but  by 
every  word  that  proceedeth  out  of  the  mouth  of  God". 

Then  comes  the  Lord's  part : 

And  they  who  keep  their  first  estate  shall  be  added  upon. 

Very  significant  language.  What  does  that  mean?  It  means  simply 
this,  that  there  shall  be  added  to  our  immortal  spirits  these  bodies  of  flesh 
and  bones. 

And  they  who  keep  their  second  estate — [that  is,  our  present  estate 
here  after  we  have  received  these  bodies  of  flesh  and  bones] — They  who 
keep  their  second  estate  shall  have  glory  added  upon  their  heads  forever  and 
ever.  (Pearl  of  Great  Price.  Abraham  3:22-26) 

What  a  glorious  promise !  A  never-ending  glory  that  is  to  be  added 
upon  the  heads  of  those  who  keep  their  second  estate,  by  doing  what  the 
Lord  commands  them,  obeying  His  glorious  Gospel.  That  is  the  only  plan. 
It  is  God's  plan,  and  has  been  given  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  in  the 
various  dispensations  of  His  providence. 

THE  COVENANT  RE-ESTABLISHED  BY  THE  SAVIOR 

When  the  Lord  our  Savior  came  and  dwelt  upon  the  earth,  the 
everlasting  covenant  was  re-established  among  the  children  of  men,  un- 
der the  higher  law.  Previous  to  the  coming  of  Christ  the  lesser  law  osten- 
sibly, but  very  imperfectly,  was  being  administered  by  the  various  sects 
of  that  day.  The  children  of  Israel,  fresh  from  their  bondage  in  the  land 
of  Egypt,  where  they  had  imbibed  much  of  the  idolatry  of  that  nation, 
were  not  prepared  for  the  higher  law,  and  the  Lord  gave  unto  them  the 
lesser  law  as  a  schoolmaster  to  bring  them  unto  Christ. 

But  when  the  Savior  came  and  ministered  among  men  He  estab- 
lished His  Church  and  Kingdom  anew,  under  the  higher  law.  In  the 
former  dispensation  it  was  the  law  of  carnal  commandments,  they  not 
being  prepared  for  that  higher  law.  Moses  was  complaining  to  the  Lord 
that  he  was  slow  of  speech  and  felt  himself  incompetent  to  lead  the  peo- 
ple, and  he  asked  the  Lord  that  He  would  give  him  someone  in  his  stead. 
The  Lord  was  not  pleased  altogether  with  his  request,  but  finally  it  was 
granted,  and  He  said  unto  Moses :  "Take  thy  brother  Aaron  and  his  sons 
to  act  in  the  office  of  the  priest."  Then  He  conferred  upon  Aaron  a  part 
of  the  glory  that  was  upon  Moses — not  all.  The  glory  which  was  upon 
Moses  was  the  glory  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  The  part  that  was 
given  to  Aaron  is  known  to  us  as  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  That  was  the 
beginning  of  this  order  of  the  Priesthood,  and  yet  it  is  to  endure  forever. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dag 


The  Aaronic  Priesthood  continued  to  minister  in  the  affairs  of  the 
Church  and  the  Lord  took  Moses  out  of  their  midst  and  with  him  the 
holy  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  but  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  remained  in 
the  Church  until  the  coming  of  John  the  Baptist.  (Doc.  &  Cov.  84:25 
and  26). 


From  what  I  have  said  and  from  the  inspired  writings  of  the  proph- 
ets, which  I  have  copiously  quoted,  it  will  be  obvious  that  there  have  been 
many  dispensations  of  God's  providence  in  every  one  of  which  prophets 
have  been  raised  up  duly  commissioned  of  God  to  act  in  His  name,  foi\ 
as  the  Prophet  Amos  has  declared  it :  "Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do' 
nothing  but  He  revealeth  His  secret  unto  His  servants  the  prophets :" 
(Amos  3  :7). 

It  will  also  be  apparent  that  the  everlasting  covenant,  or  in  other 
words  "the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ"  has  been  the  very  essence  of  God's 
dealings  with  mankind,  even  from  the  days  of  Adam  until  now — yes, 
and  even  antedating  the  creation  of  this  earth  to  that  primeval  day  "when 
the  morning  stars  sang  together  and  all  the  sons  of  God  shouted  for 


It  will  also  be  noted  that  after  each  and  every  one  of  the  various 
dispensations  there  has  been  a  falling  away  and  darkness  has  covered  the 
earth  and  gross  darkness  the  minds  of  the  people,  as  prophesied  by  Isaiah 
the  prophet.  (Isaiah  60:2). 

Even  the  glorious  Messianic  dispensation  when  Jesus  ministered 
among  men  and  set  in  His  Church  firstly  Apostles  and  secondly  prophets, 
etc.,  for  the  work  of  the  ministry,  that  we  be  not  tossed  to  and  fro  by 
every  wind  of  doctrine,  was  no  exception  to  the  rule  for  it,  too,  was 
soon  followed  by  a  universal  apostasy ;  and,  indeed,  heresies  were  creep- 
ing into  the  Church  while  the  Apostles  were  still  living,  (see  I  Cor. 
11:18,  19)  but  after  the  Apostles  "fell  alseep"  and  the  prophetic  spirit 
disappeared,  they  fell  into  the  deepest  gloom  of  darkness  and  superstition 
and  paganistic  ceremonials  and  mysticisms  which  were  entirely  foreign  to 
the  simple  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  as  they  were  taught  and  practiced  in 
the  primitive  Church  by  the  Savior  and  His  Apostles.  For  a  full  dis- 
cussion of  this  subject  let  me  refer  you  to  the  series  of  radio  addresses 
delivered  by  the  late  President  B.  H.  Roberts  over  Radio  Station  KSL, 
which  has  been  published  in  book  form  under  the  title  of  "The  Falling 
Away". 


Now,  however,  came  the  promise  of  another  dispensation,  even 
"The  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times".  This  dispensation  has  al- 
ready been  ushered  in  through  the  visitation  of  heavenly  beings  and 
the  instrumentality  of  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  by  whom  the  Lord 
has  again  set  up  His  Church  and  Kingdom  and  established  His  everlast- 
ing covenant  restoring  the  fulness  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  its 
primitive  purity.  This  is  the  Church  and  Kingdom  which  the  Lord  has 


MANY  DISPENSATIONS  GIVEN  TO  GOD'S  CHILDREN 


joy. 


THE  LAST  DISPENSATION 


ELDER  JOSEPH  JACOBS 


71 


set  up  never  again  to  be  thrown  down  nor  given  to  another  people,  but  it 
shall  stand  forever,  as  foretold  by  the  Prophet  Daniel.  (See  Daniel  II). 

And  now  again  as  on  all  previous  occasions,  He  has  endowed  His 
Church  with  power  from  on  high,  the  all  important  and  outstanding 
feature  which  has  always  distinguished  His  Church  from  the  man-made 
churches  of  the  world. 

May  we  ever  have  an  abiding  testimony  of  the  Truth  and  may  our 
faith  ever  manifest  itself  in  the  works  of  obedience.  May  we  hearken  to 
the  counsels  of  our  leaders,  upholding  and  sustaining  them  in  their  high 
office,  for  they  are  God's  servants  zealously  laboring  in  building  up  His 
Church  and  Kingdom  upon  the  earth,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

We  have  a  number  of  released  Mission  presidents.  We  hope  to 
hear  from  as  many  of  them  as  possible.  In  order,  however,  that  we  may 
hear  as  many  as  possible,  we  shall  ask  them  to  be  good  enough  to  con- 
fine themselves  to  five  minutes  time.  Anything  under  five  minutes  is 
five  minutes.    Five  minutes  is  not  six  or  seven  or  ten. 

Our  first  speaker  will  be  President  Joseph  Jacobs,  of  the  Palestine- 
Syrian  Mission. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  JACOBS 

Former  President  of  the  Palestine-Syrian  Mission 

My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  I  bring  you  greetings  from  the  Saints 
in  the  Palestine-Syrian  Mission.  It  was  my  privilege  and  blessing  to  be 
called  to  preside  over  that  historic  and  interesting  Mission  in  1937. 
Although  in  numbers  the  Saints  in  that  Mission  are  relatively  few,  yet 
in  faith  and  works  they  are  a  great  people.  While  there  and  since  re- 
turning home,  their  reports  show  that  over  ninety  per  cent  of  those  who 
should  pay  tithing,  do  so.  In  the  payment  of  Fast  offerings,  in  the  at- 
tendance of  their  meetings,  and  other  Church  activities  they  compare 
favorably  with  the  highest  group  in  the  Church. 

About  three  weeks  ago  I  received  a  report  from  that  Mission 
field  about  the  condition  of  the  Saints.  The  report  states  that  they  are 
all  firm  in  the  faith,  are  continuing  their  meetings,  tithing  is  being  paid 
regularly,  and  an  entire  family  has  applied  for  baptism. 

Incidentally,  the  report  was  mailed  the  latter  part  of  May  but  just 
arrived  here. 

Being  literally  located  at  the  cross-roads  of  the  world,  from  time 
immemorial  wars  have  been  numerous  in  that  part  of  the  world.  And 
because  of  its  geographical  position  it  is  dangerous  to  remain  in  that 
land  whenever  war  breaks  out  in  any  of  the  nearby  nations.  Because  of 
these  conditions,  that  Mission  has  been  closed  four  times  since  it  opened 
in  1890.  Intervals  of  closing  range  from  two  to  thirteen  years.  But 
every  time  the  Mission  opened,  the  new  Mission  president  has  been 
able  to  find  many  of  the  Saints  and  has  discovered  to  his  surprise  that 
they  were  still  in  the  faith  and  carrying  on. 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  5  Second  Dag 

I  rejoice  in  the  privilege  and  opportunity  that  has  come  to  me  to 
proclaim  the  Gospel  in  that  land — in  the  land  where  the  Savior  of  the 
world  did  His  missionary  work  while  He  was  on  the  earth.  Over  twenty- 
five  years  ago  a  Patriarch  promised  me  that  it  would  be  my  privilege  and 
blessing  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  them  that  are  of  the  House  of  Judah. 
That  promise  has  been  fulfilled. 

The  Lord  was  with  us  in  our  labors.  He  blessed  us  so  that  our 
way  was  always  open.  None  in  Our  family  nor  any  of  our  missionaries 
was  seriously  ill.  We  were  not  persecuted  as  the  former  missionaries 
were  in  the  past  in  that  land.  Our  efforts  were  blessed  with  some  bap- 
tisms and  many  friends. 

That  you  may  appreciate  our  difficulties  I  shall  just  mention  one 
item.  We  used  five  different  and  distinct  languages  in  our  mission  field, 
each  with  its  own  alphabet,  grammar  and  syntax. 

Once  I  was  giving  an  illustrated  lecture  to  a  group  of  professors 
from  the  University  of  Beirut.  When  I  showed  the  Pioneer  Trails 
film  and  praised  the  achievements  of  the  pioneers  and  how  they  made  the 
desert  blossom  as  the  rose,  it  sounded  to  them  like  I  was  over-rating 
the  accomplishments  of  the  pioneers  and  the  beauties  of  Utah.  At  the 
end  of  the  lecture  one  doctor  stood  up  and  asked  to  say  a  few  words. 
He  said  he  wanted  to  substantiate  what  I  said.  "Not  only  that,  but," 
said  he.  "Rev.  Jacobs  did  not  state  half  of  the  beauty  of  Utah.  I  have 
been  in  Utah.  Every  city  and  village  I  passed  through  was  clean  and 
well  arranged.  I  went  through  the  Tabernacle  grounds  and  want  to 
witness  to  you  that  every  word  that  Rev.  Jacobs  said  is  true  and  more  so." 

One  day  I  was  explaining  our  beliefs  to  a  minister.  I  read  to  him 
our  first  Article  of  Faith.  When  I  got  through  reading  it,  he  said, 
"Well  that  is  nothing  new — I  believe  in  all  of  that.  Why"  he  said,  "I 
have  made  a  special  study  of  God,  /  know  all  about  Him.  In  fact  I 
wrote  my  thesis  on  God  when  I  obtained  my  degree  from  college." 
When  I  mentioned  that  our  God  is  a  personal  God,  as  we  believe  the 
Bible  teaches,  we  disagreed.  "We  do  not  need  a  God  in  this  day  and 
age,"  he  said,  "we  are  too  civilized  to  believe  in  such  fancies."  How 
thankful  I  was  that  God  had  blessed  us  in  our  day  with  a  living  prophet 
to  reveal  eternal  truths ! 

I  want  to  thank  my  Heavenly  Father  for  the  privilege  of  living 
in  this  land  of  promise — in  this  land  which  is  choice  above  all  other 
lands — in  this  land  of  Zion.  And  above  all  I  want  to  thank  Him  for 
my  membership  in  this  Church. 

May  our  Heavenly  Father  bless  the  leaders  of  this  nation  that  we 
may  be  kept  in  the  paths  of  peace.  May  he  bless  our  Prophet  and  Presi- 
dent and  his  associates  that  they  may  lead,  guide,  and  direct  this  Church 
to  its  glorious  destiny.  And  above  all.  may  He  bless  us  all  with  the 
spirit  of  humility  and  obedience  so  that  we  may  follow  our  leaders  and  so 
live  as  to  be  worthy  of  all  the  blessings  He  has  seen  fit  to  grant  us  and 
may  yet  bestow  upon  us,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


73 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 
To  the  minute ! 

Obedient  to  my  usual  custom,  I  want  to  thank  this  choir  for  the 
splendid  music  which  it  has  rendered. 

Remember,  please,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  drive  carefully.  Let  us 
have  no  accident  if  it  be  in  any  way  possible  to  avoid  it.  One  police 
officer  has  sent  word  asking  that  I  be  good  enough  to  add  to  my  slogan, 
and  I  use  his  words :  "Please  ask  the  pedestrians  to  show  a  little  sense." 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel". 
Elder  Alonzo  J.  Gilbert,  President  of  the  Idaho  Stake  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  fourth  session  of  the  great  Conference  convened  Saturday  af- 
ternoon, October  5,  at  2  p.  m. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  are  again  blessed  with  the  presence  of  President  Grant  at  this 
service,  and  we  are  grateful  to  our  Heavenly  Father  for  this  blessing. 
President  Grant  has  asked  me  to  conduct  the  services. 

The  music  this  afternoon  will  be  furnished  by  members  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir.  Not  all  of  the  members  can  attend,  owing  to  their 
being  employed  in  places  from  which  they  cannot  be  excused,  but  those 
who  can  attend  are  here.  While  we  sang  very  well  this  morning,  I  sup- 
pose we  will  have  to  admit  that  they  can  sing  better  than  we  did. 

The  choir  is  under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  Elder 
Alexander  Schreiner  is  at  the  organ. 

The  choir  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn :  "O  Ye  Mountains 
High,"  by  Charles  W.  Penrose. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  President  Joseph  R.  Chris- 
tiansen, of  Moroni  Stake. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  "Holy  Spirit,  Truth  Divine,"  by  Handel. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  Brethren  and  Sisters  :  We  Latter-day  Saints  are  certainly  a 
peculiar  people,  due  in  part  to  our  characteristic  religious  beliefs  and 
claims.  Yet  we  are  a  very  practical  people,  combining  religious  faith 
and  the  affairs  of  daily  life  into  what  we  may  call  a  "way  of  life."  It  is 
to  some  phases  of  this  "way  of  life"  that  I  wish  to  call  your  attention. 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  5  Second  Dap 

We  gladly  accept  the  view  of  the  Psalmist,  declared  in  these  words : 
"What  is  man,  that  thou  art  mindful  of  him?  and  the  son  of  man,  that 
thou  visitest  him  ?  For  thou  hast  made  him  a  little  lower  than  the  angels, 
and  hast  crowned  him  with  glory  and  honour."  (Psalms  8:4,  5) 

OBSERVANCE  OF  LAWS  OF  CHURCH  WINS  RESPECT 

A  few  weeks  ago  I  heard  President  Clark  tell  a  factual  story  of 
the  failure  of  a  fine  upstanding  young  man  to  be  employed  by  a  large 
financial  organization.  The  young  man  possessed  ability,  a  fine  person- 
ality, a  good  education  and  excellent  initiative.  He  had  been  a  valiant 
worker  in  the  Church.  The  opening  with  the  organization  was  intended 
to  lead  to  an  important  executive  position.  Our  brother  failed  of 
employment  because  he  was  found  to  be  smoking. 

His  prospective  employer  knew  the  Church  teaches  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  and  further,  that  the  young  man  in  question  had  formerly  both 
taught  and  practiced  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  So  why  did  he  take  up 
smoking  ?  President  Clark  did  not  say.  But  was  it  not  because  he  lacked 
moral  courage  and  foolishly  thought  smoking  would  help  him  to  succeed 
in  the  business  world? 

President  Clark's  statement  reminded  me  of  a  conversation  I  had 
28  years  ago  with  our  late  lamented  Simon  Bamberger,  former  governor 
and  long  a  prominent  business  man  of  Utah  and  a  non-Mormon.  At 
the  time  of  our  chat  Mr.  Bamberger  said  he  personally  interviewed 
the  applicants  for  important  jobs  with  his  companies.  "If  a  Mormon 
applied  we  preferred  that  he  be  a  returned  missionary,"  he  said,  "but 
never  employed  him  if  he  admitted  that  he  even  occasionally  drank 
coffee  or  liquor,  or  smoked  a  cigarette."  To  my  question  "why"  Mr. 
Bamberger  answered,  "I  know  these  young  men  taught  your  Word 
of  Wisdom  while  missionaries.  On  coming  home  if  they  fail  to  live 
the  Word  of  Wisdom,  I  believe  the  answer  is  one  of  two  things — they 
are  either  weaklings  or  hypocrites.  The  Bamberger  Company  wants 
neither  weaklings  nor  hypocrites  in  its  employ."  Neither  did  the  great 
organization  of  which  President  Clark  spoke  want  a  weakling  or  a 
hypocrite  in  its  employ. 

All  the  world  who  have  heard  of  the  teachings  of  Mormonism 
know  that  the  Church  stands  for  total  abstinence  from  the  use  of  narcotic 
drinks  and  drugs,  including  tea,  coffee,  liquor  and  tobacco.  But  there 
are  some  members  of  the  Church  who  admit  they  took  to  the  use  of  one 
or  more  of  these  forbidden  things  in  the  belief  that  it  would  help  them 
socially,  professionally  or  in  business.  Was  and  is  this  a  mistaken  belief  ? 
Certainly  very  many  desirable  opportunities  have  been  lost  by  our  people, 
as  indicated  by  the  examples  just  mentioned,  because  they  lacked  the  moral 
courage  or  the  good  judgment  to  say  "no"  when  they  were  tempted. 

A  little  study  of  the  matter  will  convince  us  that  the  weak  always 
admire  the  strong,  the  unclean  delights  to  see  the  clean,  the  foolish  envy 
the  wise.  In  this  drifting,  sinful  world  a  clean,  high  type,  beautiful  charac- 
ter is  beloved  by  the  multitude  even  though  the  vast  majority  of  them  do 
not  attain  to  his  high  moral  plane  of  living.   No  member  of  the  Church, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  P.  MERRILL 


75 


young  or  old,  male  or  female,  will  ever  handicap  himself  or  herself 
in  the  association  with  decent  people  by  maintaining  the  high  moral 
standards  of  living  advocated  by  the  Church.  On  the  contrary,  smoking 
and  drinking  by  reputedly  good  Mormons  will  always  hurt  them,  never 
help  them,  in  gaining  respect  from  worth-while  non-members.  They 
may  succeed,  but  it  will  be  in  spite  of  their  lapses  rather  than  because  of 
them. 

CHARACTERISTIC  DOCTRINES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

But  let  us  go  further  and  be  reminded  that  "unto  whom  much  is 
given  much  is  required."  The  Latter-day  Saints  make  many  more 
religious  professions  than  do  ordinary  Christians.  We  have  many  char- 
acteristic doctrines,  among  which  are  those  relating  to  the  personality 
of  the  members  of  the  Godhead,  of  the  divine  calling  of  Joseph  Smith, 
of  the  divine  authenticity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  of  the  universality 
of  the  resurrection  of  the  dead,  of  salvation  for  the  dead,  of  the  eternity 
of  temple  marriages,  of  personal  pre-existence  in  the  spirit  world,  and 
several  others.  The  God  whom  we  worship  is  a  real  personal  being  having 
the  very  form  in  which  we  ourselves  are  made,  a  God  who  hears  and 
answers  acceptable  prayers  and  gives  revelations  to  those  worthy  of  and 
entitled  to  them;  a  God  who  said  "this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to 
bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man."  (Pearl  of  Great 
Price,  Moses  1:39) 

Another  characteristic  and  basic  doctrine  of  Mormonism  is  that  of 
eternal  progression.  We  are  spirit  children  of  our  Father  in  heaven  and 
were  conscious,  intelligent,  spirit-body  personalities  in  the  forms  we 
now  possess  at  the  time  of  the  great  rebellion  in  heaven  when  Lucifer, 
the  Son  of  the  Morning,  fought  with  the  Father's  loyal  hosts,  among 
whom  we  were  numbered,  in  order  to  establish  force  as  the  dominant 
factor  in  man's  salvation.  Lucifer  (Satan)  and  his  rebels  were  overcome 
and  cast  out,  coming  down  to  earth  where  they  have  been  ever  since. 

satan's  influence  in  the  world 

These  things  are  well-taught  among  us  so  that  we  understand  them 
in  outline,  at  least.  My  purpose  now  in  reminding  you  of  them  is  to  call 
your  attention  to  the  fact  that  Satan,  a  spirit  brother  of  ours,  is  a  real 
existent  personal  being  with  a  spirit  body  and  is  here  among  us  with  a 
multitude  of  helpers.  He  is  infinitely  more  than  a  mere  idea,  a  thought, 
or  figment  of  the  imagination.  Now  a  thing  sad  to  see  is  that  Satan  has 
enormous  influence  and  power  among  men  which  he  exercises  to  their 
hurt,  sorrow  and  death.  What  makes  this  particularly  sad  to  see  is 
that  it  is  wholly  unnecessary  for  men  to  yield  to  Satan's  power.  God 
has  given  each  one  of  us  the  strength,  with  His  help,  to  put  Satan  behind 
us.  In  yielding  to  him  men  do  not  live  up  to  their  high  privileges.  They 
seem  not  to  remember  who  they  are — sons  of  a  royal  Father,  the  supreme 
commander  of  the  universe,  a  Father  who  loves  them  so  much  that  He 
gave  Jesus  Christ,  His  greatly  beloved,  first-born  and  only  begotten 
Son  in  the  flesh,  to  die  a  tortuous,  ignominious  death  that  they  might 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

^'Saturday,  October  5  Second  Dag 

have  the  opportunity  of  being  redeemed  and  live  again  forever  in  His 
glorious  presence.  Yes,  brethren  and  sisters,  God  has  given  us  the 
power  and  Clearly  indicated  the  way  to  overcome  Satan. 

FREE  AGENCY  A  BLESSING  FROM  GOD 

But  let  us  ever  remember,  in  this  connection,  one  thing  more — God 
has  given  us  our  free  agency.  In  this  connection  it  is  also  well  to  remem- 
ber the  truth  expressed  by  a  beautiful  hymn  in  these  words  : 

Know  this,  that  every  soul  is  free 
To  choose  his  life  and  what  he'll  be ; 
For  this  eternal  truth  is  given, 
That  God  will  force  no  man  to  heaven. 

He'll  call,  persuade,  direct  aright, 
And  bless  with  wisdom,  love  and  light ; 
In  nameless  ways  be  good  and  kind ; 
But  never  force  the  human  mind. 

Freedom  and  reason  make  us  men ; 

Take  these  away  what  are  we  then  ? 
People  often  complain  that  God  is  either  non-existent  or  merciless 
and  devoid  of  love,  otherwise  He  would  not  permit  such  a  monstrous 
and  inhuman  tragedy  as  is  today  being  enacted  in  Europe  and  elsewhere. 
But  no  one  who  understands  the  Father's  doctrine  of  free  agency  can 
ever  give  any  sympathy  or  support  to  such  complaints.  But  time  does 
not  permit  me  to  give  further  attention  now  to  this  point. 

ATTRIBUTES  OF  GOD  INHERITED  BY  HIS  CHILDREN 

I  wish  to  give  emphasis  to  the  fact  that  since  we  are  spirit  children 
of  our  Father  in  heaven  it  is  perfectly  natural  that  we  should  possess 
at  least  in  embryo  and  microscopic  quantities  the  attributes  of  our  Father. 
And  looking  at  these  attributes  as  they  are  developed  in  our  finest  char- 
acters— as  they  were  beautifully  exhibited  in  the  earthly  life  of  Jesus, 
for  example,  we  may  get  concrete  ideas  about  the  nature  of  God  who 
possesses  these  attributes  in  perfection. 

One  of  these  is  intelligence.  Indeed,  intelligence  is  His  glory. 
Intelligence  governed  by  wisdom  is  also  the  glory  of  man,  the  attribute 
that  chiefly  sets  him  apart  from  the  mere  animal.  Possessing  this  attribute 
it  is  easy  to  understand  why  it  is  right  for  him  to  be  given  his  free  agency. 
We  are  therefore  entirely  in  accord  with  the  doctrine  expressed  in  the 
Declaration  of  Independence  at  the  birth  of  our  nation — that  man  is 
endowed  by  his  Creator  with  the  inalienable  right  to  life,  liberty  and 
the  pursuit  of  happiness. 

RESPONSIBILITY  FOR  OUR  OWN  ACTS 

But  free  agency  entails  upon  man  a  weighty  obligation — that  of 
being  responsible  for  his  conduct.  And  particularly  is  this  the  case  in 
full  measure  in  our  land  of  liberty.  As  residents  of  America  and  as 
members  of  the  Church,  privileged  as  we  are  with  an  understanding 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


77 


more  or  less  complete  of  who  we  are,  of  our  relations  to  one  another,  to 
our  fellow-men,  to  our  country  and  to  our  God,  we  have  indeed  been 
given  much — are  more  highly  favored  than  nearly  all  other  men.  But 
we  say  this  humbly  and  thankfully,  not  boastfully.  We  say  it  also  in 
full  realization  of  the  fact  that  because  the  Lord  has  given  us  much 
He  will  in  justice  exact  much  at  our  hands.  He  will  hold  us  accountable 
for  all  that  we  do. 

And  here  let  me  particularize  a  little,  indicating  a  few  of  our  obliga- 
tions. The  Lord  requires  us  to  develop  the  attributes  with  which  we 
were  born.  We  cannot  be  saved  in  ignorance.  The  law  of  growth  is 
activity.  No  one  is  exempt  from  this  law.  But  to  grow  properly 
the  activity  must  be  suited  to  the  growth  desired.  Playing  foot-ball  may 
develop  an  athlete  but  it  will  not  make  a  musician.  An  intellect  governed 
by  wisdom  is  man's  proudest  possession.  Conduct  actuated  by  the  golden 
rule  yields  him  the  greatest  happiness.  Responsibilities  fully  met  con- 
tribute most  rapidly  to  God-like  growth. 

But  in  all  of  these  things  let  us  remember  that  Satan  is  ever  near 
to  handicap  us  if  he  can.  It  is  easier  to  drift  than  to  row.  So  Satan 
always  prompts  us  to  drift.  To  grow  strong  in  body,  mind  or  spirit, 
one  or  all,  self-discipline  is  absolutely  essential.  But  if  we  please  our 
Maker  we  must  grow ;  therefore  we  must  discipline  ourselves,  that  is, 
we  must  bring  our  conduct  into  harmony  with  the  inexorable  laws  of 
divinity  that  govern  growth.  I  have  already  indicated  a  rule  of  conduct 
that  is  in  complete  harmony  with  the  great  law  of  moral  growth — the 
golden  rule. 

Now  to  particularize  still  more.  We  Latter-day  Saints  profess  so 
much  that  logic,  reason,  and  consistency  require  us  to  demonstrate  our 
honesty  and  sincerity  by  living  according  to  our  teachings,  e.  g.,  observe 
the  Word  of  Wisdom.  But  this  is  not  all.  The  Lord  requires  us  thus 
to  live  in  order  to  win  His  favor.  And  He  cannot  be  deceived.  He  knows 
our  hearts  and  our  thoughts. 

Are  we  reasonable  and  wise  in  what  we  do  ?  To  know  what  is  best 
to  say,  what  is  best  to  do  and  to  know  how  best  to  do  it  is  to  possess 
inspired  wisdom,  probably  our  greatest  gift.  If  we  live  worthy  of  divine 
guidance,  as  we  are  privileged  to  do,  we  shall  not  go  very  far  astray. 
We  spend  great  sums  and  send  thousands  of  missionaries  forth  to  preach 
the  Gospel.  Do  we  so  live  that  our  lives  are  sermons  in  harmony  with 
the  teachings  of  our  missionaries?  If  not,  why  not?  If  not,  we  shall  cer- 
tainly be  condemned.   Let  us  not  forget  it. 

We  live  in  this  land  choice  above  all  other  lands.  Are  we  worthy 
to  enjoy  its  incomparable  blessings?  Do  we  discipline  ourselves,  self- 
imposing  upon  us  whatever  struggles  and  sacrifices  may  be  necessary 
in  order  that  we  shall  preserve  inviolate  the  principles  bequeathed  to 
us  by  the  fathers  of  our  country,  many  of  whom  spilled  their  blood 
and  gave  their  lives  that  their  descendants  might  be  free? 

INTELLIGENT  VOTING  COMMENDED 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  obligations  of  American  citizenship  are 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  5  Second  Day 

numerous  and  sometimes  heavy.  But  to  a  genuine  Latter-day  Saint, 
diligently  trying  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  it  is  a  real  pleasure 
to  bear  these  responsibilities.  May  I  remind  you  that  among  the  greatest 
of  them  is  the  duty  of  wise  voting.  Perhaps  few,  if  any,  of  us  fully  meet 
this  responsibility.  To  do  so  we  must  keep  ourselves  informed  of  the 
necessary  pertinent  facts  relative  to  candidates,  remain  free  from  the 
influence  of  prejudice  and  all  deceptive  propaganda,  give  no  support  of 
any  kind  to  demagogues  and  their  deceptive  promises,  but  be  willing 
to  labor  and  to  sacrifice  as  much  as  necessary  that  our  government  and 
our  country  shall  be  kept  free  from  the  hands  of  those  who  would 
despoil  them.  , 

To  refresh  your  memories  of  the  attitude  of  the  Church  in  these 
matters  please  re-read  Section  134  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
on  "A  Declaration  of  Belief  Regarding  Governments  and  Laws,"  adopted 
by  a  unanimous  vote  at  a  general  assembly  of  the  Church  held  at  Kirtland, 
Ohio,  August  17,  1835. 

The  following  taken  from  the  Declaration  is  a  key  sentence :  "We 
believe  that  no  government  can  exist  in  peace,  except  such  laws  are 
framed  and  held  inviolate  as  will  secure  to  each  individual  the  free 
exercise  of  conscience,  the  right  and  control  of  property,  and  the  protec- 
tion of  life."  The  Church  cannot  look  with  any  degree  of  favor  upon 
any  proposition  whatsoever  that  would  oppose  to  the  slightest  extent 
this  statement. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  our  free  America,  the  America  of  our  fathers, 
is  gravely  in  danger,  not  from  enemies  without  but  from  enemies  within. 
It  is  the  duty  of  all  Latter-day  Saints,  living  under  the  stars  and  stripes, 
as  well  as  of  all  loyal  citizens,  to  forget  their  petty  differences  and  their 
ignoble  personal  selfishness,  and  rally  to  her  support.  This  may  best 
be  done  by  holding  inviolate  the  Charter  of  our  liberties — the  Con- 
stitution of  the  United  States  and  all  good  laws  made  in  harmony  there- 
with. This  certainly  requires  that  we  shall  be  careful  and  elect  to  make 
and  administer  the  laws  only  people  who  are  wise,  patriotic  and  morally 
worthy — only  men 'and  women  of  high  character. 

God  bless  America,  God  bless  His  faithful  children,  and  give 
them  the  strength,  moral  courage  and  wisdom,  through  their  desire  and 
worthiness,  to  keep  His  commandments  I  humbly  pray  in  Christ's  name. 
Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy  and  President  of  the  New  England 

Mission 

I  am  happy  to  come  from  Boston  to  attend  this  Conference,  and 
to  report  to  the  parents  of  the  missionaries  laboring  in  New  England  that 
they  are  a  noble  band  of  young  men  and  women,  and  we  are  proud 
of  them.  They  work  very  hard  and  it  does  not  take  long  for  them 
to  prove  themselves  true  servants  of  God. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


79 


LABORS  OF  MISSIONARIES  PRAISED 

New  England  is  a  difficult  mission  because  we  have  so  few  members 
of  the  Church,  but  what  we  have  are  as  true  and  noble  as  ever  lived.  If 
we  have  a  branch  of  six  or  eight  or  ten  members  that  have  been  converted 
in  New  England,  we  call  it  a  large  branch,  and  your  sons  and  daughters 
go  into  these  districts  and  sometimes  far  out  on  the  borders  of  Canada, 
for  we  have  Saints  in  New  Brunswick  and  Nova  Scotia.  It  is  a  fine 
people  that  we  labor  among.  Boston  is  said  to  be  the  hub  of  America 
and  the  center  of  culture,  and  there  are  some  twenty  universities  and 
colleges  in  Boston  alone.  So  you  see  we  are  among  a  people  who  have 
always  believed  in  education.  You  would  be  happy  to  see  your  boys  and 
girls  laboring,  and  could  you  be  in  the  city  of  Lynn,  a  manufacturing 
center,  at  a  Sunday  morning  meeting,  you  would  find  ten  or  fifteen 
young  girls  and  boys,  from  the  Methodist  Church,  singing  in  our  choir 
there,  and  our  Elders  sitting  in  the  Methodist  Church  of  a  Sunday 
evening  taking  part  in  their  choir. 

A  TRIBUTE  TO  THE  PEOPLE  OF  NEW  ENGLAND 

You  would  like  New  England  people.  Many  of  them  are  des- 
cendants of  the  old  Puritan  stock;  that  stock  that  was  represented  in 
England  by  such  men  as  Oliver  Cromwell  and  John  Milton.  They  came 
to  America  to  build  new  homes  and  to  be  free  to  worship  God  as  they 
wanted  to  worship.  We  speak  unkindly  sometimes  of  those  people  because 
they  were  very  strict  in  their  habits.  They  were  Calvinistic  and  though 
they  had  their  faults,  they  had  their  strong  characteristics.  They  would 
not  tolerate  immorality.  They  would  not  tolerate  impurity  in  politics. 
Said  John  Milton  on  one  occasion:  "Politics  is  the  science  of  govern- 
ment and  no  politics  can  be  pure  until  there  is  brought  to  bear  on  this 
great  science  the  ideals  that  God  governs  in  the  affairs  of  men.."  We 
do  misunderstand  them,  it  is  true,  but  they  were  strict  in  their  home 
life.  I  wish  that  today  in  the  world  we  had  more  of  the  iron  men  like 
Cromwell,  Admiral  Coligny,  and  Governor  Bradford  of  Plymouth 
Colony. 

AMERICAN  IDEALS  CORRUPTED 

One  of  the  great  wrongs  going  on  in  America  to-day  is  the  idea 
held  by  millions  of  people  that  they  have  the  right  to  enjoy  the  things 
of  life  which  they  have  never  earned.  It  is  a  form  of  dishonesty  that 
is  corrupting  the  youth  of  to-day,  it  has  already  corrupted  millions.  It 
has  produced  an  aversion  to  hard  work.  Idleness  and  the  love  of  pleasure 
have  taken  away  many  of  our  American  ideals  given  to  us  by  the 
fathers  of  this  nation.  The  hate  of  man  for  man  has  grown  in  this 
country  as  it  has  grown  in  the  lands  across  the  seas.  These  forces  have 
torn  down  religious  ideals,  and  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord  finds 
little  lodgment  in  the  hearts  of  men.  Our  civilization  is  suffering  from 
a  breakdown  in  character  because  our  teachings  have  not  had  a  sufficient 
effect  on  the  actions  and  lives  of  individuals.  We  speak  of  reforms, 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  5  Second  Day 

Human  nature  can  only  be  reformed  by  a  strengthening  of  prophetic 
religion.  A  new  day  for  social  betterment  can  come  only  through  the 
revelations  of  God  to  his  people — the  pure  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Ben- 
jamin Franklin  warned  us  in  the  Constitutional  convention  at  the  very 
birth  of  this  nation  that  our  government  will  end  in  despotism  if  the 
people  become  corrupt.  This  nation  must  turn  back  to  God. 

HONOR  DONE  TO  C.  E.  DALLIN 

I  should  like  to  tell  you  about  a  lovely  thing  that  happened  in  Boston 
two  weeks  ago  to-morrow.  It  concerns  the  unveiling  of  the  "Paul 
Revere  monument,"  created  for  the  city  of  Boston  by  our  well  known 
sculptor,  Cyrus  E.  Dallin.  The  monument  was  inspired  by  the  poem  of 
Longfellow's  which  runs:  "Listen,  my  children  and  you  shall  hear  of 
the  mid-night  ride  of  Paul  Revere."  In  1884  Dallin  entered  his  model 
in  competition  with  ten  other  sculptors,  the  country's  foremost.  He  won 
over  men  like  Andrew  O'Conner  and  Daniel  Chester  French.  Dallin 
was  told  by  the  committee  to  execute  his  statue  and  it  would  stand  in 
Copley  Square.  Then  a  sculptor  named  Trueman  H.  Bartlett  wrote  to 
the  Boston  Transcript :  "It  is  the  most  outrageous  piece  of  effrontery 
and  lack  of  intelligence  on  the  committee's  part  to  have  selected  that 
model — a  model  of  an  impossible  man  on  an  impossible  horse — ."  These 
words  had  their  effect,  and  the  appropriation  promised  was  never  made. 
Dallin  sought  at  intervals  for  fifty-five  years  to  induce  various  mayors  to 
appropriate  funds  for  the  statue,  and  a  few  years  ago,  he  appealed  to 
the  Legislature  of  the  State  of  Massachusetts,  also  without  success. 
Several  months  ago,  he  presented  his  case  to  the  five  trustees  of  the  George 
Robert  White  fund,  who  have  the  income  of  some  $6,000,000  at  their 
disposal  for  the  erection  of  works  of  art.  An  appropriation  was  made  for 
the  statue  and  Dallin  came  into  his  own.  The  wrong  done  over  half  a 
century  ago  to  a  struggling  art  student  of  23  was  righted.  There  are 
compensations  in  life  for  long  waiting  when  ideals  are  at  stake. 

The  statue  stands  in  the  north  end  of  Boston  near  Paul  Revere's 
old  home  and  on  the  mall  near  the  old  North  Church,  from  the  tower  of 
which  hung  the  lanterns  on  the  night  of  the  nineteenth  of  April,  1775. 

I  was  present  at  the  unveiling  of  the  monument  and  heard  Mayor 
Tobin  of  Boston  say :  "This  day,  I  have  the  honor  in  behalf  of  the  city 
of  Boston  to  right  a  wrong  that  was  done  over  a  half  a  century  ago.  ...  I 
have  the  honor  of  introducing  to  you  Mr.  Cyrus  E.  Dallin,  the  sculptor 
of  this  beautiful  statue."  Mr  Dallin  arose,  bowed  to  the  crowd  and  sat 
down  again.  He  had  won  at  last  and  his  noble  heart  was  filled  with 
gladness. 

Dallin's  "Massasoit"  the  Indian  who  made  peace  with  the  Pilgrim 
Fathers,  stands  overlooking  the  sea  at  Plymouth  Rock,  and  his  "Appeal  to 
the  Great  Spirit"  stands  in  front  of  the  Boston  Museum  of  Fine  Arts. 
What,  pride  we  all  have  in  the  beautiful  Angel  on  the  cap-stone  of  our 
Temple  here,  which  was  also  made  by  Dallin.  It  is  possibly  his  master- 
piece. Dallin's  story  of  how  he  came  to  make  the  statue  at  the  request 
of  President  Wilford  Woodruff  is  one  of  the  loveliest  things  I  ever  heard. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


81 


AN  APPEAL  FOR  LOYALTY  TO  THE  CONSTITUTION 

That  Sabbath  day  after  the  dedicatory  exercises  of  the  monument 
of  Paul  Revere,  an  old  priest  stood  before  hundreds  of  Italians  in  the 
old  church  near  by  and  spoke  on  the  "God-given  Constitution  of  the 
United  States."  It  did  my  heart  good  to  see  those  alien  people  pay 
deference  to  our  flag  and  to  Paul  Revere.  Herein  is  a  lesson.  You  Ital- 
ians, you  Germans,  and  French,  you  Scandinavians  and  all  other  foreig- 
ners who  have  joined  the  Church  and  come  to  America  have  found 
freedom  and  liberty  as  you  have  never  known  before,  and  you  may 
rest  assured  that  this  is  a  country  blessed  of  God,  and  its  Constitution 
was  written  by  men  who  were  God-inspired.  Be  true  to  your  country 
and  its  Constitution  which  is  for  all  time,  for  never  can  anything  better 
take  its  place.  The  ideal  of  America  was  stated  by  President  Grover 
Cleveland  in  !  Philadelphia  at  the  centennial  exercises  in  honor  of  the 
drafting  of  the  Constitution  in  1887.  Said  President  Cleveland :  "When 
we  look  down  one  hundred  years  and  see  the  origin  of  our  Constitution, 
when  we  contemplate  all  its  trials  and  triumphs,  when  we  realize  how 
completely  the  principles  upon  which  it  is  based  have  met  every  national 
need  and  every  national  peril,  how  devoutly  should  we  say  with  Franklin, 
'God  governs  in  the  affairs  of  men,'  and  how  solemn  should  be  the  thought 
that  to  us  is  delivered  this  ark  of  the  people's  covenant  and  to  us  sealed 
with  the  test  of  a  century.  It  has  been  found  sufficient  in  the  past,  and  it 
will  be  found  sufficient  in  all  the  years  to  come,  if  American  people  are 
true  to  their  sacred  trust.  Another  centennial  day  will  come,  and  millions 
yet  unborn  will  inquire  concerning  our  stewardship  and  the  safety  of  the 
Constitution.  God  grant  they  may  find  it  unimpaired ;  and  as  we  rejoice 
to-day  in  the  patriotism  and  devotion  of  those  who  lived  one  hundred 
years  ago,  so  may  those  who  follow  us  rejoice  in  our  fidelity  and  love  for 
Constitutional  liberty." 

FAITH  OVERCOMES  FEAR 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  grow  in  faith ;  that  faith  which  will 
regenerate  our  lives  completely.  If  we  have  the  enlarged  faith  in  the 
living  God  that  was  taught  us  by  the  Master,  nothing  can  hurt  us.  Do 
you  recall  the  story  of  the  three  men  who  were  thrown  into  the  fiery 
furnace  because  they  would  not  bow  down  to  the  golden  image  erected 
by  Nebuchadnezzar  and  give  up  their  knowledge  of  the  Living  God? 
The  Jews  were  in  the  furnace  of  affliction,  but  they  were  not  afraid. 
When  the  three  men — Shadrach,  Meshach,  and  Abednego  stood  before 
the  priests  of  Babylon,  they  answered :  "If  it  be  so,  our  God  whom  we 
serve  is  able  to  deliver  us  from  the  burning  fiery  furnace ;  but  if  it  be  not 
according  to  His  plan,  be  it  still  known  unto  thee,  O  king,  that  we  will 
not  worship  thy  gods  nor  the  golden  image. 

"And  the  fire  had  no  power  upon  their  bodies,  nor  was  the  hair  of 
their  head  singed,  nor  had  the  smell  of  fire  passed  upon  them,  for  there 
was  with  them  in  the  furnace  a  fourth  whose  aspect  was  like  unto  the 
Son  of  God." 

What  a  lesson  for  the  martyrs  of  the  day  in  which  we  live ! 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  5  Second  Day 

I  pray  for  the  blessings  of  God  upon  us  all,  that  we  may  be  unto 
all  people  a  light  and  life  and  a  help  in  this  darkened  world,  I  ask  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

As  has  been  expressed  during  the  meetings  of  this  Conference,  this 
is  a  great  Church,  a  great  people,  and  great  have  been  our  accomplish- 
ments. I  was  impressed  as  my  father,  Elder  George  F.  Richards,  opened 
the  meeting  this  morning  by  his  enumeration  of  some  of  the  great  things 
the  Church  has  achieved  up  until  the  present  time.  I  believe  that  we  are 
only  in  the  process  of  preparation  for  far  greater  achievements  and 
accomplishments,  for  the  Lord  expects  it  at  our  hands.  This  is  His  Church 
and  it  is  His  Kingdom.  Its  destiny  has  been  decreed  and  proclaimed  by  the 
prophets  of  old,  and  ultimately  it  is  the  Kingdom  that  shall  fill  the 
earth.  With  that  thought  in  mind  we  should  seek  to  prepare  ourselves 
for  every  event  of  the  Lord's  providence  concerning  us  and  be  prepared 
to  carry  on  His  Kingdom. 

THE  PRIESTHOOD  AS  A  MEANS  OF  BRINGING  PEACE 

Brother  Clark  expressed  in  his  opening  remarks  not  a  great  fear 
that  we  should  be  attacked  by  any  foreign  foe,  and  I  have  felt  that  way 
in  my  own  heart  f  or  some  time.  But  in  analyzing  the  prophecies  of  the 
scriptures  it  seems  to  me  that  we  are  in  some  danger  lest  there  should  be 
people  arise  against  people,  and  this  in  our  land,  as  well  as  nation  against 
nation,  and  I  have  always  felt  that  if  we  could  live  nearer  to  one  another, 
love  one  another  as  the  Lord  intended  we  should  do  that  this  brother- 
hood that  is  being  built  up  through  the  Priesthood  that  we  bear  would 
be  the  thing  that  would  preserve  us  against  bloodshed.  In  the  revelations 
in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  we  are  told  that  the  day  will  come  when 
every  man  who  is  not  willing  to  take  up  his  sword  and  fight  against  his 
neighbor  should  flee  to  Zion  for  safety,  but  if  we  keep  close  to  the  spirit 
of  this  great  Priesthood  that  we  bear,  this  brotherhood,  we  should  be  able 
to  live  at  peace  with  one  another  and  not  have  to  take  up  the  sword 
against  our  neighbors. 

TOLERANCE  IN  POLITICS  COMMENDED 

With  the  wonderful  achievements  of  the  Church  I  feel  there  are 
some  weaknesses  that  we  should  have  pointed  out.  You  will  remember 
that  Paul,  in  indicating  the  purpose  of  the  organization  of  the  Church, 
said  that  among  other  things  it  was  for  the  perfecting  of  the  Saints. 
Ever  since  I  was  a  young  man  there  has  been  one  thing  that  has  not 
been  pleasing  to  me.  It  seems  to  me  that  it  is  a  disturbing  influence  and 
probably  the  most  disturbing  of  all  influences  in  the  midst  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  that  is  this  political  discord.  I  know  I  am  stepping  in  where 
angels  fear  to  tread,  but  since  I  am  not  a  politician  I  think  I  might  be 
privileged  to  say  a  word  or  two  on  this  subject.  Notwithstanding  the 


BISHOP  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 


83 


loyalty  we  bear  to  the  Church,  and  all  the  service  we  render,  somehow  our 
minds  become  darkened  when  we  talk  of  political  things,  and  those  who 
otherwise  should  be  the  best  of  friends  and  the  best  of  neighbors  become 
at  variance  with  each  other.  I  have  heard  President  Grant  tell  in  years 
gone  by  of  some  of  the  brethren  who  went  Ward  Teaching  together  and 
before  they  separated  they  were  fist-fighting  because  they  got  into  argu- 
ments over  politics.  I  was  with  a  group  of  brethren  one  day,  when  the  dis- 
cussion became  so  hot  that  one  brother  said,  "If  the  Savior  should  come 
back  to  the  earth  and  He  was  a  member  of  the  other  party  I  would  oppose 
Him."  I  could  understand  this  statement,  but  I  did  not  believe  the  brother 
meant  it.  He  saw  me  walk  away  in  disgust  so  he  hunted  me  up  the  next 
day  and  apologized  for  what  he  had  said. 

This  extreme  attitude  has  always  annoyed  me.  My  family  has 
sometimes  said,  "How  is  it  that  you  do  not  take  a  more  active  part  in 
politics  ?"  And  I  have  said,  "Because  I  love  my  friends  too  much,  and 
I  have  seen  too  many  men  lose  their  friends  because  of  their  activity 
in  politics."  I  do  not  see,  brethren,  why  we  cannot  stand  for  correct 
principles  and  not  have  to.  "haul  through  the  mire,"  so  to  speak,  each 
other  just  because  we  go  out  after  a  political  position.  I  sometimes  won- 
der if  our  brethren  realize  how  much  they  do  to  destroy  the  faith  of  the 
youth  of  the  Church  and  cause  unfavorable  criticism  and  comment  by 
those  who  are  not  of  the  Church  when  they  assail  each  other  as  has  been 
the  practice  for  all  the  years  since  I  have  been  old  enough  to  remember. 
We  ought  to  feel  that  we  owe  our  allegiance  to  the  Church  and  to  the 
Priesthood  and  to  our  brethren.  We  should  love  our  brethren  until  the 
love  that  binds  us  together  will  be  stronger  than  the  cords  of  death,  and 
this  ought  to  cause  us  to  sustain  and  uphold  each  other  under  all  circum- 
stances and  not  permit  the  evil  one  to  get  an  inroad  into  our  midst  be- 
cause of  these  disturbing  influences. 

SAFETY  IN  FOLLOWING  ADVICE  OF  CHURCH  LEADERS 

Another  word  about  politics,  if  you  will  permit  it.  We  have  had 
testimonies  today  from  some  of  the  brethren.  I  was  particularly  im- 
pressed with  what  Brother  Evans  said,  that  he  believed  in  following  the 
Prophet  of  the  Lord  even  though  he  did  not  think  he  was  right,  because' 
he  found  he  always  was  right,  and  he  said  those  of  us  who  are  not  willing 
to  follow  him  when  we  do  not  think  he  is  right  do  not  believe  that  he  is 
a  Prophet  of  God.  This  accords  with  my  feelings  along  this  line.  I  have 
had  the  privilege  for  the  past  two  and  a  half  years,  with  my  counselors, 
of  meeting  weekly  with  the  First  Presidency  of  this  Church,  and  I  want 
to  testify  to  you  here  today,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  they  are  in 
very  deed  prophets  of  God,  and  I  am  willing  to  follow  them  when  their 
judgment  is  different  from  mine  because  to  me  they  are  more  than  ordi- 
nary men ;  they  are  men  clothed  upon  by  the  power  of  God.  When  we 
raise  our  hands  to  sustain  them  as  prophets,  seers,  and  revelators,  we 
ought  to  think  twice  before  we  criticize  their  judgment  and  their  recom- 
mendations. 

A  report  came  to  the  office  the  other  day  from  one  of  our  brethren 


84  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  5  Second  Day 

who  said,  "Well,  if  the  President  expresses  his  opinion  on  these  political 
matters,  the  people  will  do  just  the  opposite  to  what  he  says."  We  would 
not  like  to  believe  that  this  is  true  among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  but  if 
there  are  any  of  us  who  feel  that  it  is  true,  we  ought  to  search  our  own 
hearts  and  see  if  that  is  the  kind  of  faith  we  have  in  the  leaders  of  this 
great  Church.  There  are  those  all  over  the  world  including  religious 
leaders  today  who  are  looking  with  despair  upon  the  present  conditions 
of  the  world  and  they  are  wondering  how  we  are  going  to  find  the  way 
out.  While  I  was  in  the  South,  I  read  in  one  of  the  largest  newspapers  in 
Atlanta  a  long  article  written  by  Bishop  Candler  of  the  Methodist 
Church  of  Atlanta,  a  man  who  is  respected  all  over  this  nation,  and  one 
of  the  great  leaders  of  his  people.  After  decrying  the  conditions,  the  lack 
of  faith  and  the  lack  of  leadership  in  the  world,  he  closed  his  article  with 
these  words,  'We  need  the  reappearance  of  prophets  sent  of  God."  When 
even  religious  leaders  feel  the  need  of  prophets  sent  of  God  why  shouldn't 
we  feel  the  need  of  following  the  prophets  who  are  in  our  midst  who 
are  sent  of  God  ?  Shortly  after  that,  in  the  city  of  Atlanta,  in  November 
1936,  Bishop  Ainsworth  addressed  a  conference  of  Methodists  relative 
to  alarming  conditions  observed  today  and  urged  the  people  of  all  faiths 
to  engage  in  a  crusade  to  save  civilization  from  moral  decadence.  And 
then  the  Bishop  added :  "Never  in  the  nation's  history  was  the  arresting 
voice  of  a  prophet  of  God  more  needed  than  it  is  today.  Tremendous 
forces  of  reconstruction  are  at  work  and  their  mighty  currents  are  chang- 
ing the  shore  lines  of  our  civilization.  Millions  of  our  people  have  lost 
their  moorings.  Civilization  has  reached  the  crossroads  and  the  more 
serious  minded  leaders  of  the  race  are  wondering  where  we  are  going." 

If  this  be  the  opinion  of  religious  leaders  of  the  world  and  they 
openly  acknowledge  that  never  in  the  history  of  the  world  has  the  arrest- 
ing voice  of  a  prophet  been  so  needed  as  it  is  today,  why  shouldn't  we  pray 
for  faith  and  courage  to  follow  the  prophets  the  Lord  has  given  us?  So 
far  as  I  am  concerned  I  wish  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  had  the  faith  to 
follow  these  men  whom  God  has  chosen  to  lead  us,  endowed  with  the 
inspiration  and  revelation  of  heaven,  so  that  their  voices  and  their  judg- 
ments and  their  instructions  and  their  advice  would  have  first  place  in 
our  lives  regardless  of  any  political  party  or  political  doctrine.  It  seems 
to  me  that  it  has  almost  come  to  the  point  in  our  Church  where  even  if  they 
express  their  thoughts  on  some  of  the  very  fundamentals  for  which  the 
Church  has  ever  stood,  for  which  every  prophet  in  this  great  Church  has 
stood,  they  are  criticized  by  some  of  the  brethren  on  the  grounds  that  they 
are  meddling  in  politics. 

WARNING  OF  DR.  JOHN  M.  REINER 

There  stood  in  this  pulpit  in  January  1898  Dr.  John  M.  Reiner,  a 
Roman  Catholic  Priest  of  New  York,  who  had  been  attending  the  meet- 
ings regularly  for  some  time,  and  President  Woodruff  and  Brother 
Penrose  were  on  the  stand.  President  Woodruff  called  him  up  to  the 
pulpit.  He  stood  here,  and  after  giving  the  reasons  why  he  had  found 
it  necessary,  impelled  by  the  reports  he  had  heard,  to  make  investigation 


BISHOP  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 


85 


of  our  claims,  he  made  this  statement :  "The  Church  of  God  need  never 
fear  an  enemy  from  without,  but  the  enemy  within  your  walls,  he  who 
walks  with  you  side  by  side  into  your  tabernacle,  or  into  your  temple, 
he  who  makes  the  same  profession,  he  who  speaks  the  same  language, 
he  who  pretends  to  have  the  same  religion  and  believe  in  the.  same 
revelations  and  to  be  guided  by  the  same  authority,  but  whose  heart  is  far 
from  God  and  who  lives  an  ungodly  life.  He  is  the  worst  enemy  you 
have  and  in  due  time  if  you  do  not  clean  out  your  house  from  such  people, 
God  Himself  will  smite  you  with  pestilence." 

I  believe,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  our  greatest  danger  as  a  people 
is  from  within,  and  I  would  like  to  believe  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
believe  in  the  leaders  of  this  great  Church  to  the  point  that  they  are  willing 
to  accept  their  counsel  and  advice.  I  think  sometimes  we  almost  bind  them 
so  that  when  they  have  the  inspiration  of  Almighty  God  and  would  like 
to  speak  to  us  they  hesitate  for  fear  some  of  us  will  feel  that  they  are 
interfering  with  political  affairs.  If  I  had  my  way  I  would  weclome  the 
day,  come  it  as  soon  as  God  may  grant,  when  these  men  with  whom  I  am 
associated  so  intimately  and  whose  very  intimate  thoughts  I  know  and 
their  desires  for  the  welfare  of  this  people  and  the  welfare  of  the  King- 
dom of  God,  might  not  only  be  issuing  instructions  to  this  great  Church 
but  to  this  great  nation,  which  we  are  told  is  a  land  choice  above  all  other 
lands  and  over  which  Christ  our  Lord,  as  decreed,  shall  reign,  as  King  of 
Kings  and  Lord  of  Lords,  because  in  this  land  it  is  decreed  that  the  new 
Jerusalem  of  the  Lord  our  God  shall  be  established. 

A  PRAYER  ANSWERED 

I  heard  an  experience  the  other  day  of  one  of  our  Stake  Presidents,  a 
grand  and  noble  man,  and  I  respect  him,  and  I  am  going  to  take  the 
liberty  of  repeating  it  here  without  mentioning  names  because  it  illustra- 
tes the  kind  of  faith  I  think  we  ought  to  have  in  these  leaders  of  ours. 
Sometime  ago  an  article  was  published  over  the  signature  of  the  First 
Presidency  and  it  seemed  to  irritate  him  and  it  irritated  others  because 
it  dealt  with  some  political  measures,  and  he  thought  it  was  not  right  for 
the  Presidency  of  this  Church  to  express  themselves  on  such  matters.  He 
went  into  his  office  to  think  it  over,  and  he  went  into  his  private  room 
and  prayed  about  it.  When  he  came  out  from  that  moment  of  prayer, 
he  decided  that  if  these  men  were  prophets  of  God  they  had  a  right 
to  speak,  and  it  was  his  place  and  his  responsibility  to  follow  them  and 
to  respect  their  counsel  and  advice.  That  is  the  kind  of  faith  I  like  to  see 
in  this  Church. 

A  LESSON  IN  THE  SAVIOR'S  WORDS  TO  PETER 

I  think  sometimes  as  I  listen  to  men  criticizing  the  leaders  of  the 
Church,  and  we  have  some  among  us  who  do  that,  of  the  words  of  the 
Savior  to  Peter  of  old.  You  will  remember  that  constantly  Peter  was 
checked  on  by  the  Master,  and  shortly  before  His  crucifixion,  He  said, 
"Simon,  Simon,  behold,  Satan  hath  desired  to  have  you  that  he  may  sift 
you  as  wheat;  but  I  have  prayed  for  thee,  that  thy  faith  fail  not;  and 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  5  Second  Day 

when  thou  art  converted,  strengthen  thy  brethren."  Peter  was  sure 
he  was  converted  and  so  he  answered.  "Lord,  I  am  ready  to  go  with  Thee 
both  into  prison  and  to  death".  And  He  said,  "I  tell  thee,  Peter,  the 
cock  shall  not  crow  this  day,  before  that  thou  shalt  thrice  deny  that  thou 
knowest  me." 

And  so  I  feel  sometimes  when  we  are  not  willing  to  follow  the  counsel 
and  advice  of  our  leaders,  in  substance,  we,  as  Peter  of  old,  deny  that 
we  know  them ;  for  surely  we  know  them  not  in  their  true  positions  and 
in  their  true  work  as  prophets  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  except  we  be 
willing  to  follow  them  even  though  it  be  unto  death  itself. 

The  Master  said,"  They  have  Moses  and  the  prophets  ...  if  they  hear 
not  the  prophets,  neither  will  they  be  persuaded  though  one  rose  from 
the  dead." 

God  grant  that  ye  may  stand  as  united  brethren  and  that  we  uphold 
those  whom  God  has  appointed  to  preside  over  us,  and  if  we  do  this,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  no  fear  but  that  this  Church  shall  hurriedly 
and  speedily  take  its  place  as  God  has  decreed.  God  bless  you  all  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  Choir  sang  "Still,  Still  With  Thee"  by  Shelley. 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

It  is  a  source  of  great  joy  to  me,  my  brothers  and  sisters  and  friends, 
to  meet  with  you  in  the  sessions  of  this  Conference  and  to  partake  of 
the  spirit  of  these  gatherings.  I  rejoice  greatly  in  the  presence  with  us 
today  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant  in  the  measure  of  health  and  strength 
that  he  enjoys.  I  pray  with  you  that  he  may  continue  to  enjoy  vigor 
and  life  and  accomplish  the  mission  which  he  has  before  him  in  great 
measure,  as  long  as  he  desires.  I  pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  to 
attend  his  Counselors.  I  sustain  them  fully  and  wholly,  and  I  sustain 
all  of  the  General  Authorities  and  all  the  local  authorities ;  all  the  Stake 
Presidencies  and  Ward  Bishoprics  and  Mission  Presidents ;  and  all  who 
have  part  in  this  work.  I  realize  how  great  and  responsible  this  work 
is,  and  what  a  joy  there  is  in  the  accomplishment  of  righteous  deeds. 
I  pray  that  the  Lord  may  bless  me  in  the  things  I  may  have  to  say  this 
afternoon. 

There  have  been  many  important  messages  presented  to  us  today 
and  yesterday.  I  sense  all  that  has  been  said  as  being  of  great  importance 
and  welfare  to  us,  and  I  desire  that  I  may  sustain  in  every  respect  the 
responsibilities  that  rest  upon  me,  in  common  with  you,  to  measure 
up  to  every  duty  and  labor  to  the  very  fullest  extent  possible.  I  have 
in  my  heart  nothing  but  great  rejoicing  in  the  work  in  which  I  am  engaged 
with  you  and  I  desire  to  qualify  in  the  fullest  measure  for  every  under- 
taking, responsibility,  and  blessing  that  the  Lord  has  given  me.  I 
realize  that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  are  with  us.  I  realize  that  His 
desire  is  for  our  progress,  our  salvation,  and  our  exaltation  in  every 
respect,  to  the  extent  that  we  will  fulfil  every  commandment  that  He 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON  87 


has  given  us.  And  so  I  say  that  I  am  prepared,  and  desire  to  measure 
up  to  every  responsibility  that  the  Lord  has  given.  I  have  great  joy 
and  satisfaction  in  consideration  of  the  kindness  shown  to  me  by  my 
brethren,  and  by  all  of  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 

My  mind  has  rested  to  some  extent  on  the  responsibilities  of  the 
Priesthood,  but  this  subject  has  been  touched  upon  by  some  who  have 
spoken,  so  I  have  decided  to  speak  of  other  things. 

HUMAN  AND  DIVINE  GOVERNMENT 

There  are  many  principles  revealed  and  many  covenants  made  by 
the  Lord  with  His  children  who  have  taken  upon  them  His  name  to 
serve  Him.  There  are  other  agreements  or  covenants  made  by  men  one 
with  another  which  are  to  do  with  civil  affairs,  and  are  intended  to  be 
honorably  complied  with.  We  call  these  agreements  or  covenants.  The 
agreements  or  promises  made  to  mankind  by  the  Lord  are  in  the  nature 
of  divine  covenants,  or  divine  understandings,  and  these  the  Lord  has 
made  to  His  children,  through  His  faithful  servants.  To  the  extent  that 
mankind  has  fulfilled  the  conditions  they  have  received  the  blessings 
and  the  promises  the  Lord  has  made. 

I  might  relate  a  number  of  these  things.  You  are  familiar  with 
them  in  the  history  of  the  world  and  the  hand-dealings  of  the  Lord  with 
His  children.  He  made  promises  to  Adam  that  he  should  have  dominion 
over  every  living  thing.  Adam  was  true  to  his  covenants  and  he  fulfilled 
his  part.  And  so  it  has  been  with  Enoch  and  with  Noah.  When  Noah  re- 
ceived the  commandment  of  the  Lord  he  fulfilled  that  covenant  faithfully 
and  received  a  blessing.  So  with  Moses  and  other  ancient  prophets.  Com- 
ing down  through  the  various  dispensations  we  find  that  John  the  Baptist 
received  the  authority  and  followed  the  instructions  of  the  Lord  to  preach 
the  Gospel.  To  him  was  given  authority  to  perform  the  ordinance  of 
baptism  upon  those  who  manifested  repentance ;  who  first  had  faith  in 
God,  and  who  had  grown  in  the  spirit  of  repentance  and  the  desire 
to  be  forgiven  of  their  transgressions  or  shortcomings.  John  the  Baptist 
received  the  keys  of  that  authority  and  held  them  in  all  the  centuries 
from  the  time  of  the  Savior  until  the  nineteenth  century.  And  the 
Savior  himself  gave  to  mankind  the  promise  that  through  faith  in  God 
and  through  repentance  they  could  be  baptized  and  receive  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  whereby  they  should  receive  the  confirmation  of  the 
baptism  by  fire  and  the  Holy  Ghost. 

COVENANTS  IN  THIS  DISPENSATION 

In  this  dispensation  the  Lord  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  many 
things  and  gave  him  instructions,  and  among  other  instructions  which 
were  given  and  blessings  which  he  received  was  the  restoration  of  the 
holy  sacrament  of  the  Lord's  supper;  and  in  like  manner  the  eternal 
covenant  of  marriage, — one  of  the  greatest  promises  made  to  men  in 
earlier  days  which  has  been  restored  again  in  these  days. 

How  sacred  and  important  it  is  that  men  and  women  should  qualify 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  5  Second  Day 

— those  who  have  accepted  the  truths  of  this  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  have  received  authority  of  the  holy  Priesthood  by  divine  restoration 
— to  partake  of  the  spirit  of  this  responsibility  and  this  covenant,  and  to 
enter  into  that  promise  and  that  blessing.  We  and  our  children  are  entitled 
to  receive  these  blessings  if  we  live  for  them,  and  observe  them  with  all 
our  hearts,  in  love  and  kindliness,  in  justice  and  righteousness. 

THE  COVENANT  OF  ETERNAL  MARRIAGE 

Now  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  consider  this  quite  important.  I 
felt  I  would  like  to  talk  briefly  about  this  particular  covenant  the  Lord 
has  given.  In  earlier  days,  in  the  early  history;  of  mankind,  we 
are  told  that  for  this  cause  should  a  man  leave  father  and  mother  and 
cleave  unto  his  wife,  and  they  twain  should  be  one  flesh.  We  are  intelli- 
gent beings.  We  are  eternal  beings,  and  inasmuch  as  we  try  to  do  the 
will  of  the  Lord  and  keep  His  commandments  He  will  bless  us  and 
fulfil  His  promises  to  us.  And  so,  in  this  latter  day,  He  has  given  this 
covenant  through  the  authority  of  the  holy  Priesthood,  restored  again 
in  these  days,  whereby  His  sons  and  daughters  who  have  observed  to 
do  His  will  and  have  received  the  authority  and  fulfilled  the  covenants 
shall  be  entitled  to  go  forward  and  be  united  for  time  and  for  eternity, 
and  that  that  covenant  should  be  binding  upon  them  to  the  extent  that 
they  live  for  it  throughout  all  time.  It  is  a  remarkable  thing  to  think 
about,  to  realize  what  eternity  means.  It  sobers  one  considerably  when 
one  thinks  of  entering  into  a  covenant  of  this  kind,  not  only  for  this 
life,  but  for  the  life  to  come.  It  justifies  very  careful  consideration  on 
the  part  of  those  who  enter  into  it.  The  man  and  the  woman  should  be 
worthy ;  they  should  exemplify  in  their  lives  every  principle  of  the  Gospel 
to  the  very  best  o  E  their  ability,  and  they  should  strive  to  grow  in  patience 
and  in  kindliness,  in  good-will  and  love  towards  each  other,  and  especially 
try  to  exemplify  the  finest  and  highest  principles  of  the  Gospel  and  of 
the  Priesthood  they  have  received. 

A   PRINCIPLE   WITH  PROMISE 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  received  many  instructions  in  this  last 
dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times,  and  among  them  were  other  com- 
mandments and  other  instructions  given  of  the  Lord,  one  of  which  was 
the  principle  of  tithing,  which  is  the  Law  of  the  Lord,  given  to  mankind 
that  through  their  faithful  observance  of  that  principle  they  should 
grow  in  righteousness  and  in  truth,  and  be  prospered.  It  is  a  principle 
with  a  promise,  and  all  Latter-day  Saints  who  have  undertaken  to  observe 
that  principle  are  blessed,  blessed  particularly  spiritually,  but  also  pros- 
pered temporally,  so  that  they  are  able  to  meet  their  obligations.  I  testify 
to  the  truth  of  this,  because  I  know  the  Lord  is  a  loving  Father.  He  has 
given  us  great  blessings  in  the  observance  of  this  as  well  as  of  every 
other  commandment. 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


89 


MARRIAGE  AND  DIVORCE 

With  regard  to  the  matter  of  marriage  and  divorce,  not  only  in  this 
nation,  but  in  all  the  nations  of  the  world,  I  would  like  to  say  that  scandal- 
ous conditions  prevail  to  a  large  extent.  People  have  neglected  eternal 
marriage ;  they  have  done  away  with  the  eternal  covenant  and  have 
substituted  therefor  civil  covenants  which  endure  only  until  death. 

Conditions  throughout  the  nations  referred  to  are  far  from  what  they 
should  be.  Instead  of  marriage  being  recognized  as  a  sacred  covenant,  as 
given  by  the  Lord  to  mankind,  it  is  too  often  a  temporary  tie  between 
man  and  wife,  subject  to  divorce.  Such  conditions  I  say  are  too  prev- 
alent in  the  world.  Men  and  women  are  too  illy  situated  to  sense  the 
seriousness  and  the  vitality,  importance  and  righteousness  of  the  eternal 
covenant. 

CAUSES  OF  DIVORCE 

In  going  over  some  of  the  causes  of  divorce  in  this  nation  I  find 
that  there  are  three  main  causes:  First  is  cruelty.  Generally  speaking 
that  is  more  prevalent  in  the  case  of  the  woman,  who  feels  she  is  unfairly 
treated  by  her  husband.  Thirty-two  per  cent  of  the  cases  of  divorce  are 
for  cruelty ;  twenty-eight  percent  are  for  the  cause  of  desertion ;  and 
seven  and  one-half  per  cent  for  adultery,  which  is  a  very  serious  charge. 
These  are  some  of  the  causes  which  bring  about  divorces  and  are  obtained 
by  women,  which  would  indicate  that  the  women  are  more  badly  treated 
by  their  husbands  than  the  husbands  by  the  wives. 

There  are  more  legal  causes  for  divorce  on  the  part  of  the  wife 
than  the  husband.  One-third  of  the  divorces  occur  after  four  years  or  less 
of  marriage.  One  third  of  the  divorces  are  from  five  to  nine  years ; 
and  one-third  of  divorces  are  for  over  ten  years.  That  indicates  something 
of  the  conditions  with  regard  to  that  principle. 

The  Ladies  Home  Journal,  about  a  year  or  two  ago,  made  a  survey 
of  the  causes  of  divorce.  They  found  that  sixty-nine  percent  of  the  women 
believe  in  divorce.  Money,  they  say,  is  the  chief  cause  of  friction. 
Young  people,  they  find  from  the  conclusions,  should  be  taught  more 
about  sex  before  they  are  married.  Sex  instructions,  they  say,  should 
be  given  by  their  parents. 

Now,  these  are  some  of  the  conditions  which  prevail  in  the  world. 
The  Latter-day  Saints  generally  believe  whole-heartedly,  thoroughly, 
loyally,  truly  and  eternally,  in  the  principle  of  eternal  marriage — marriage 
for  eternity  as  well  as  for  time — and  yet  there  are  many  young  people 
in  the  Church  who  are  not  subscribing  to  this  condition — this  eternal 
covenant.  They  are  missing  a  great  opportunity.  Too  many  hasty  mar- 
riages are  very  often  the  occasion  for  hasty  divorces.  But  those  who 
enter  into  the  covenant  of  eternal  marriage,  in  my  judgment,  are  those 
who  carefully  consider  what  they  are  doing,  wisely,  prayerfully,  and 
earnestly  striving  to  be  led  and  guided  into  righteousness,  so  that  they 
resist  hasty  marriage  and  every  influence  that  is  not  in  harmony  with  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

As  an  example  of  what  has  been  achieved  by  the  Latter-day  Saints 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  5  Second  Day 

in  overcoming-  this  condition  of  hasty  marriages  and  divorces,  and  the 
tendency  to  disregard  the  covenants  that  are  made,  I  want  to  call  your 
attention  to  the  records,  because  the  Church  has  kept  a  record  for  years 
with  regard  to  these  statistics  which  are  of  concern  to  us.  They  have 
been  kept  as  accurately  as  they  could  be  obtained. 

STATISTICAL  COMPARISONS 

I  should  like  to  refer  you  to  certain  results  which  indicate  some  of 
the  comparisons  of  marriage  and  divorce  in  the  nation  of  the  United 
States  as  compared  with  those  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  The  last  year 
of  which  we  have  records  was  in  1938.  The  marriage  rate  of  the  United 
States  as  a  whole  was  10.41  per  thousand  population,  as  compared  with 
17.5%  per  thousand  population  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  which  is 
70%  greater.  The  divorce  rate  was  1.71  per  thousand  population  as 
against  1.04  for  the  Latter-day  Saints.  This  was  about  40%  less.  But  that 
result  was  obtained  from  the  record  of  civil  marriages,  and  not  from  those 
performed  in  the  temples  of  the  Lord.  In  the  Latter-day  Saint  Temples 
where  such  ordinances  are  performed  the  result  was,  for  those  who 
entered  into  marriage  for  eternity  .28  per  thousand  population,  or  about 
83%  less.  That  indicates  something  of  the  difference  where  people 
observe  this  covenant  that  the  Lord  has  given  for  our  eternal  welfare. 

It  is  a  matter  of  great  importance  to  every  Latter-day  Saint. 
Worthy  parents  sense  the  importance  of  teaching  their  children  this 
eternal  principle.  Stake  Presidencies,  Bishoprics,  and  all  the  officers 
throughout  the  Church  realize  that  in  teaching  this  divine  principle  they 
are  instructing  worthy  young  people  in  the  proper  observance  of  an 
eternal  principle  of  great  promise  and  blessing  to  all  who  righteously 
observe  it. 

This  is  one  of  the  great  things  to  think  about,  that  the  covenants 
they  make  in  this  life  will  endure  for  eternity,  if  they  live  in  harmony 
therewith.  The  blessings  of  God  will  attend  those  bonds  if  worthily 
observed.  The  conclusions  are  that  those  who  do  these  things  through 
their  willingness  and  righteous  desires  to  observe  these  commandments, 
grow  in  virtue  and  regard  the  sacredness  of  the  covenants  and  generally 
are  more  faithful  and  dependable  and  worthy  than  those  who  marry 
for  time  only. 

WHAT  OTHERS  SAY  ABOUT  US 

Now  I  would  like  to  say  another  word.  Some  time  ago  I  noticed  a 
newspaper  article  coming  from  the  Coast  with  regard  to  eugenics  and 
marital  conditions  among  the  Christian  peoples  of  this  nation.  This 
briefly  states  that  Dr.  Paul  Poponoe,  social  expert  and  director  of  the 
Institute  of  Family  Relations,  addressing  the  California  division  of  the 
American  Eugenics  Society,  referred  to  an  investigation  made  by  Dr. 
Ellsworth  Huntington  of  Yale  University  in  the  following  words :  "Dr. 
Ellsworth  Huntington  at  Yale  University  has  calculated  the  number  of 
great  grandchildren  likely  to  represent  the  present  day  leaders  in  the 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


91 


United  States.  This  is  based  on  a  study  of  persons  listed  in  'Who's 
Who,'  and  therefore  represents  the  fertility  only  of  eminent  persons, 
not  of  the  rank  and  file.  He  finds  the  Mormons  have  a  prospective 
advantage  of  more  than  400  per  cent  over  their  nearest  competitors. 
Jews  are  almost  at  the  bottom  of  the  list. 

"From  the  sample  in  'Who's  Who,'  1000  leading  adherents  of  the 
Mormon  faith  at  the  present  day  will  be  represented  by  10,200  great 
grandchildren. 

"A  thousand  Lutherans  will  have  only  1950  great  grandchildren; 
Baptists  1560;  Methodists  1458;  Roman  Catholics  1310;  Congregation- 
alists  1125;  Unitarians  1025;  Episcopalians  910;  Jews  755;  and  Uni- 
versalists  500. 

"The  low  birthrate  of  the  modern  Jew  is  almost  world-wide." 

Now,  that  is  a  challenge  to  mankind  as  to  what  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  who  are  faithful  in  the  observance  of  this  eternal  covenant, 
represent  in  comparison  with  mankind  generally.  Prominent  people  in 
other  churches,  because  they  have  not  observed  to  do  these  things  which 
make  for  greater  stability,  greater  love,  greater  patience,  greater  con- 
sideration, and  every  other  quality,  are  not  able  to  measure  up  to  the 
same  standards  as  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  achieved. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  every  one  of  us  to  strive  to  harmonize 
our  desires  with  our  families  to  these  fine  standards  that  we  have  referred 
to  that  the  Lord  has  established.  He  is  blessing  mankind  to  the  extent 
that  we  live  and  keep  His  commandments,  and  I  testify  to  you  that 
these  principles  are  true.  The  Lord  is  kindly  towards  His  people.  May 
His  blessings  continually  attend  us.  I  testify  to  you  that  this  is  His  work, 
the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  in  these  days.  These  brethren  who  preside 
over  us  are  men  who  are  guided  by  the  inspiration  and  power  of  the 
Lord.  I  pray  that  we  may  desire  to  live  in  such  a  way  that  we  may  be 
worthy  of  the  trust  vested  in  us,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

■ 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

You  brethren,  returned  Mission  Presidents,  we  shall  now  turn  to 
you  to  give  us  the  balance  of  the  afternoon.  Again  I  suggest  to  you  that 
we  should  like  to  hear  as  many  as  we  can.  We  can  hear  more  if  you 
will  speak  five  minutes  and  quit  than  if  you  speak  ten  minutes,  and  any- 
thing under  five  minutes  is  five  minutes. 

Will  Brother  William  T.  Tew,  Jr.,  formerly  president  of  the  East 
Central  States  Mission  please  come  to  the  stand. 

ELDER  WILLIAM  T.  TEW,  JR. 

Former  President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 

I  am  very  happy  to  be  here  this  afternoon  and  to  take  the  place 
of  my  old  friend,  A.  Richard  Peterson.  We  were  together  in  school, 
preparing  for  our  missions  abroad.   In  years  past  we  both  filled  missions 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  5  Second  Day 

in  foreign  lands,  and  we  have  also  been  in  foreign  lands  and  at  home 
presiding  over  missions  during  the  past  few  years. 

I  am  happy  to  be  here  today  to  mingle  with  my  brethren  and  sisters 
in  this  great  tabernacle.  We  have  been  thrilled  today  listening  to  this 
great  choir — the  harmony,  the  volume,  the  fervor,  the  enthusiasm,  the 
inspiration  that  seems  to  fill  these  singers  has  in  turn  thrilled  this 
audience  and  the  unseen  audience  that  perhaps  numbers  hundreds*  of 
thousands. 

Since  returning  home  about  five  or  six  weeks  ago  I  have  been  asked 
many  times,  "Are  you  glad  to  be  home?"  I  can  honestly  say  to  my 
brothers  and  sisters  that  I  am  glad  to  be  home.  I  was  glad  when  I  was 
in  the  mission  field,  but  when  my  mission  was  completed  and  I  was  re- 
leased, why  shouldn't  I  be  glad  to  be  back  among  my  brethren  ?  I  believe 
that  when  one  puts  his  whole  soul  into  the  missionary  work  for  a  period 
of  three  years  or  more,  he  deserves  a  release.  If  he  doesn't  put  his  soul 
into  it,  he  deserves  a  release  long  before  the  three  years  are  up. 

We  have  had  great  joy  in  our  mission.  The  Lord  has  blessed  us 
with  health  and  strength,  and  He  has  increased  our  testimonies  of  the 
Gospel.  We  have  had  great  joy  in  mingling  with  our  Saints  abroad, 
many  of  whom  are  here  today  at  this  great  Conference.  We  have 
enjoyed  the  companionship,  the  loyalty  and  love  of  your  boys  and  girls 
who  have  been  sent  there  as  missionaries.  I  want  to  tell  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  there  is  nothing  in  the  world  more  dear  to  me  than  the  love 
of  these  young  people  who  have  filled  honorable  missions  in  the  mission 
field.  They  are  an  inspiration  to  those  who  labor  among  them ;  they  are 
the  stalwart  defenders  of  the  faith ;  they  are  the  "hope  of  Israel"  because 
the  "hope  of  Israel"  is  the  youth  of  Zion.  The  future  of  this  Church 
and  the  salvation  of  our  Church  rests  with  the  youth. 

My  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  I  have  been  impressed  very 
much  within  the  last  few  days  studying  things  regarding  our  Savior's 
life.  One  of  the  things  that  occurred  to  me  last  evening  as  well  as  this 
afternoon  is  the  experience  of  our  Savior  as  a  boy  of  twelve  in  the 
temple  of  the  Lord.  When  His  mother  sought  Him  she  found  Him 
both  asking  and  answering  questions  among  the  wise  men  and  lawyers 
of  the  temple.  His  question  to  her  was,  "Wist  ye*  not  that  I  must  be 
about  my  Father's  business?"  I  do  not  know  any  greater  ideal,  any 
greater  goal  or  objective  in  life  that  you  and  I  can  have,  or  that  young 
people  can  have  in  their  souls  than  the  one  embodied  in  that  question. 
We  should  be  about  our  Father's  business,  and  the  question  arises  in  turn, 
"What  is  our  Father's  business  ?" 

We  have  been  told  that  the  Lord's  work  and  the  Lord's  glory  is 
to  bring  to  pass  man's  immortality  and  man's  eternal  life ;  and  eternal 
life  we  are  told  is  a  quality  of  life,  the  kind  of  life  that  God  Himself 
lives,  that  kind  of  life  that  Jesus,  the  Christ,  came  to  give — life  abundant, 
rich  and  full  and  joyful.  That  is  the  Lord's  business  ;  that  is  my  business 
as  one  of  His  children ;  that  is  your  business,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as 
the  children  of  the  Lord.  Though  we  grant  the  fact  that  the  Lord  is 
Omnipotent,  it  seems  to  me  that  in  this  realm  of  His  work,  bringing 


ELDER  PRESTON  NIBLEY 


93 


to  pass  man's  eternal  life,  the  Lord  does  need  you  and  me,  because  I 
claim — I  may  be  wrong — but  I  claim  the  Lord  cannot  give  me  eternal 
life,  that  quality  of  life,  that  degree  of  joy  which  is  celestial,  unless  I 
am  willing  to  do  my  duty  and  keep  His  commandments,  assist  my  fellow 
men  in  learning  His  commandments  and  encouraging  them  in  keeping 
those  commandments. 

I  am  sure  the  Lord  spoke  a  glorious  truth  when  he  said  to  Oliver 
Cowdery  and  others :  "If  you  should  labor  all  your  days  in  crying  re- 
pentance unto  this  people,  and  bring  save  it  be  one  soul  unto  me,  how 
great  shall  be  your  joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father !" 

And  so  we  have  rejoiced  in  the  mission  field  in  devoting  ourselves 
to  the  service  of  the  Lord.  We  have  brought  into  the  Church  in  the 
last  three  years  between  twelve  and  thirteen  hundrd  souls,  converts  and 
children.  We  have  traveled  over  a  hundred  thousand  miles.  I  have 
attended  and  preached  in  more  than  a  thousand  meetings.  How  much 
good  has  been  done  rests  of  course  with  the  future. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  increased  in  testimony.  We  bear 
our  testimony  to  you  this  afternoon  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord, 
and  the  only  way  to  bring  peace  and  joy  to  the  world  is  by  knowing 
the  Lord's  commandments  and  by  keeping  them. 

My  five  minutes  are  up.  From  the  bottom  of  my  heart,  I  want  to ' 
thank  the  parents  of  those  boys  and  girls  who  have  served  in  the  mission 
field.  I  do  thank  them  and  am  grateful  for  their  lives,  for  their  devotion 
and  for  their  service.  May  the  Lord  bless  these  young  people  at  home 
that  they  may  keep  in  the  harness,  that  they  may  be  kept  in  the  faith, 
that  they  may  be  an  inspiration  to  all  those  with  whom  they  associate, 
I  pray  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  PRESTON  NIBLEY 

Former  President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

I  desire  to  take  this  occasion  to  express  the  gratitude  that  Sister 
Nibley  and  I  feel  for  the  opportunity  we  have  had  to  serve  as  missionaries 
in  the  Northwestern  States  Mission.  This  was  my  second  mission,  and  it 
was  her  first.  I  can  say  that  we  enjoyed  every  minute  of  our  time. 

We  were  sent  out,  according  to  President  McKay,  for  two  and  a 
half  to  three  years,  but  we  remained  there  three  years  and  eight  months. 

Oregon  was  not  a  new  country  to  us,  as  my  father  had  been  there 
many  years  previously,  and  I  had  been  there  as  a  child.  We  have  thou- 
sands of  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  northwest,  and  many  more  are  migrat- 
ing out  there  on  account  of  business  and  other  opportunities.  Besides 
the  Portland  and  Seattle  Stakes  we  have  some  ninety-two  branches  and 
Sunday  Schools.  We  left  130  missionaries,  whom  we  dearly  love. 

When  I  received  my  release  from  the  First  Presidency,  I  did  not 
know  whether  I  wanted  to  come  home  or  not,  I  felt  so  interested  in  my 
work.  I  remembered  what  my  father  told  me  about  his  mother  when  she 
was  dying ;  she  turned  to  him  and  said :  "Charlie,  this  dying  is  no  doings 
of  mine."  (Laughter) 


r 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  5  Second  Day 

One  of  the  things  which  has  pleased  us  has  been  the  fine  leadership 
we  have  had  from  President  Grant  and  his  Counselors.  As  Bishop 
Richards  said,  so  I  say,  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  the  finest  leader- 
ship in  the  world,  our  First  Presidency.  I  express  my  loyalty  to  them. 
No  one  wrote  me  more  frequently  than  President  Grant,  kind,  loving, 
encouraging  letters.  I  received  many  from  him.  When  I  opened  his 
letters  and  read :  "Dear  Preston,"  and  found  that  they  closed,  "Yours 
affectionately,  Heber  J.  Grant,"  I  felt  close  to  my  President.  He  was 
my  President  thirty-five  years  ago  when  I  was  a  missionary  in  Europe, 
and  now  he  is  nearing  his  eighty-fourth  birthday,  and  I  thank  my 
Heavenly  Father  that  he  has  been  preserved  to  us. 

President  McKay  has  been  all  that  a  brother  and  leader,  could  be, 
and  we  have  loved  him  and  his  leadership,  and  we  love  him  now.  I  did 
not  hear  from  President  Clark  so  frequently,  but  President  Qark,  I 
always  knew  you  were  there,  and  I  knew  you  were  back  of  us. 

Brother  and  sisters,  we  tried  to  look  after  your  missionaries.  We 
never  took  our  eyes  away  from  them ;  we  watched  them  by  day  and  by 
night,  and  encouraged  them  so  that  they  would  return  home  and  be  an 
honor  to  you.  We  watched  their  health,  we  watched  everything  pertain- 
ing to  them. 

I  think  our  converts  are  being  made  in  the  northwest  principally 
through  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  reside  there.  They  bring  their  neigh- 
bors to  Church,  and  we  are  baptizing  the  neighbors  of  our  Saints.  Many 
hundreds  have  joined  the  Church.  During  our  presidency  over  2,000 
were  baptized  in  the  Northwestern  States  Mission. 

Now,  with  the  other  mission  presidents  here,  I  do  not  know  whether 
I  should  say  it  or  not,  but  during  the  first  six  months  of  this  year  the 
Northwestern  States  Mission  led  the  Missions  of  the  United  States 
in  tracts  distributed  and  Gospel  conversations,  and  in  baptisms  per 
missionary. 

I  am  grateful  that  we  received  an  honorable  release  from  the  First 
Presidency.  We  are  happy  to  be  home,  and  we  shall  continue  to  serve 
in  any  capacity  to  which  the  Brethren  call  us. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  this  is  the  work  of  God,  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  sent  to  restore  the  Gospel  in  this  last  dispensa- 
tion. I  leave  you  this  testimony,  and  I  do  it  humbly,  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  "I  Will  Give  Thanks  Unto  the  Lord,"  by  Campbell- 
Tipton. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

I  am  afraid,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  you  will  have  to  say  that  this 
choir  is  better  than  we  were.  I  thank  them,  and  I  thank  their  employers 
who  permit  them  to  come  and  sing  for  us  so  beautifully  this  afternoon. 

Elder  Asael  E.  Palmer,  President  of  the  Lethbridge  Stake,  offered 
th  closing  prayer. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  95 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Sunday  morning,  October  6. 

The  great  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity  with  people  who  had 
assembled  many  of  them  more  than  an  hour  in  advance  of  the  time  to 
begin  this  session,  to  listen  to  the  Conference  proceedings.  The  large 
Assembly  Hall  immediately  south  of  the  Tabernacle  was  also  crowded 
with  people,  and  thousands  in  addition  assembled  upon  the  Tabernacle 
grounds,  where,  by  means  of  amplifying  equipment  that  had  been  in- 
stalled, they  listened  to  the  services  as  given  in  the  Tabernacle. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  who  conducted,  opened  the  meet- 
ing promptly  at  10  o'clock. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

There  are  literally  thousands  of  people  who  cannot  get  in  the 
Tabernacle  at  all  this  morning,  and  hundreds  are  standing  in  the  en- 
trances and  aisles.  Please  do  the  -best  you  can  to  give  some  of  them 
seats.  On  the  sides,  too,  as  well  as  the  center,  and  up  in  the  gallery. 
Be  good  enough  to  move  as  close  together  as  possible.  It  would  be  very 
helpful. 

We  are  again  blessed  with  the  presence  of  President  Grant,  who 
will  preside  at  this  meeting  and  who  will  speak  to  us.  He  has  asked 
me  to  conduct  the  services. 

The  music  this  morning  will  be  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the 
direction  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  is  at  the 
organ. 

The  hymn,  "The  Spirit  of  God  Like  a  Fire  is  Burning,"  (By  Wil- 
liam W.  Phelps),  was  sung  by  the  choir  and  congregation. 

Elder  John  B.  Reed,  President  of  the  San  Luis  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

GRATITUDE  FOR  FAITH  OF  PEOPLE 

It  is  needless  for  me  to  tell  you  good  people  how  grateful  I  am 
to  be  here  today.  I  missed  the  Conference  six  months  ago,  and  I  am 
grateful  beyond  expression  to  all  of  you  good  people,  to  the  Saints  gen- 
erally, and  to  some  people  who  are  not  members  of  our  Church  for  your 
and  their  faith  and  prayers  in  my  behalf  that  I  should  be  healed.  I 
am  grateful  to  the  doctors  who  so  kindly,  carefully,  and  energetically 
at  home,  and  while  in  Los  Angeles,  gave  me  the  benefit  of  their  services. 

I  lack  the  capacity  to  express  the  gratitude  and  thanksgiving  in  my 
heart  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  to  me  and  this  people.    I  humbly 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  6  Third  Day 

pray  that  while  I  am  speaking  to  you  this  morning  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
may  be  and  abide  with  me.  I  do  not  expect,  however,  to  preach  to  you  this 
morning,  I  simply  desire  to  express  my  gratitude  to  the  Lord,  and  I 
expect  to  have  the  pleasure  this  afternoon,  as  my  doctor,  Silas  Smith, 
consented  that  I  may  speak  again,  at  the  close  of  the  Conference. 

KINDNESS  ACKNOWLEDGED 

I  am  grateful  to  my  friends  in  California,  to  my  relatives  and  to 
my  railroad,  banking  and  insurance  friends,  to  Mr.  Chandler  of  the 
Los  Angeles  Times,  and  to  all  of  the  officials  of  the  Church  in  California, 
because  of  their  fine  attention  to  me  and  their  interest  in  my  welfare.  I 
am  grateful  for  the  fine  treatment  I  receivd  at  the  Catholic  Hospital  in 
Los  Angeles. 

I  am  very  thankful  for  our  fine  Conference,  for  the  wonderful 
attendance  here  today,  and  for  the  magnificent  body  of  the  Priesthood 
that  were  together  last  night. 

THE  FILM  "BRIGHAM  YOUNG"  COMMENDED 

I  am  thankful  beyond  expression  for  the  very  wonderful  and  splen- 
did moving  picture  that  has  been  made  of  Brigham  Young.  I  have  heard 
some  little  criticism  of  it,  but  we  cannot  expect  the  people  who  do  not 
know  that  Brigham  Young  was  in  very  deed  the  representative  of  God 
upon  this  earth,  who  do  not  know  his  wonderful  character,  to  tell  the 
story  as  we  would  tell  it.  We  know  that  he  was  a  prophet  of  the  living 
God  and  the  representative  of  the  Lord  here  upon  the  earth.  There  is 
nothing  in  the  picture  that  reflects  in  any  way  against  our  people.  It  is  a 
very  marvelous  and  wonderful  thing,  considering  how  people  generally 
have  treated  us  and  what  they  have  thought  of  us.  Of  course  there  are 
many  things  in  the  picture  that  are  not  strictly  correct,  and  that  is 
announced  in  the  picture  itself.  It  is  of  course  a  picture  and  we  could 
not  hope  that  they  would  make  a  picture  at  their  expense,  running  into  a 
couple  of  million  dollars,  to  be  just  as  we  would  like  it.  We  know  that 
Brigham  Young  was  a  powerful  and  wonderful  man,  the  greatest  man 
of  his  day,  and  one  of  the  great  things  about  Brigham  Young  was  that 
he  always  gave  credit  to  Joseph  Smith  for  everything  that  he  did.  He 
claimed  that  he  was  simply  building  upon  the  foundation  laid  by  the 
prophet  of  God,  who  had  seen  God  and  conversed  with  Jesus  Christ. 
He  never  doubted  for  one  minute  the  final  triumph  of  the  people  here  in 
Utah.  He  was  a  man  of  God,  and  the  people  thought  the  world  and  all 
of  him. 

THE  CHURCH   MAKING  FRIENDS 

I  am  very  thankful  for  the  health  of  the  people.  I  am  very  thankful 
for  the  very  marvelous  and  wonderful  change  that  I  find  wherever  I  go 
in  the  attitude  towards  the  Mormon  people.  To  be  known  as  a  Mormon, 
living  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  is  a  recommendation  to  all  those  that 
know  us  as  a  people.   As  the  years  come  and  go  the  Word  of  Wisdom 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


97 


and  all  the  various  teachings  and  doctrines  laid  down  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  so  faithfully  and  strongly  carried  out  by  Brigham 
Young  are  making  us  friends  all  over  the  world. 

BLESSING  AND  PRAYER  FOR  PEACE 

The  doctor  told  me  I  could  have  five  or  six  minutes,  or  even  ten. 
I  have  occupied  only  about  five,  but  as  I  am  going  to  talk  to  you  again  at 
the  close  of  the  conference,  and  as  I  do  not  want  to  overdo  in  the  least 
degree,  I  shall  simply  say,  God  bless  you,  one  and  all.  God  bless  the 
honest  the  world  over.  God  bless  all  good  people,  and  hasten  the  day 
when  people  shall  seek  to  God  for  guidance  and  direction,  when  wars 
will  cease  and  peace  will  reign,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  humility 
and  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer.  I  bless  you  by 
the  authority  of  the  holy  Priesthood  of  the  living  God  that  I  hold,  and  I 
do  it  in  the  name  of  Christ,  our  Redeemer,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

President  Grant :  words  cannot  express  the  gratitude  of  the  people 
for  your  presence,  your  message,  and  the  degree  of  health  which  you 
have.  May  the  Lord  continue  to  bless  you  is  the  prayer  of  all  the 
people  of  the  Church. 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  am  delighted,  brethren  and  sisters,  with  this  opportunity  of  stand- 
ing before  you  for  just  a  few  short  minutes  this  morning.  The  gathering 
of  men  who  were  here  in  this  building  last  night,  and  the  gatherings  of 
men  and  women  who  have  been  here  during  this  Conference,  give  new 
testimony  to  the  fact  that  there  is  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  still  a  fervent  faith  in  God,  our  heavenly  Father. 

PESSIMISM  AND  OPTIMISM 

There  are  people  in  the  Church  who  have  the  temerity  to  say  that 
our  condition  is  such  as  to  justify,  perhaps,  God  our  heavenly  Father  in 
taking  the  Gospel  from  us.  I  have  had  at  least  one  man  cite  to  me  the 
sixteenth  chapter  of  Third  Nephi,  tenth  and  eleventh  verses,  in  which 
God  says  that  when  certain  conditions  shall  prevail  within  the  Church, 
He  will  take  the  Gospel  from  us,  citing  as  justification  the  fact  that 
we  are  now  in  such  a  condition  that  we  might  lose  it — a  pessimistic  view, 
indeed,  I  take  it. 

I  insist  on  feeling,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  am  an  optimist.  As 
I  move  about  among  you  people  I  have  many  opportunities  to  see  how  you 
feel,  to  realize  your  trust  in  God  our  heavenly  Father,  and  I  believe  that 
there  is  in  the  Church  today  still  the  same  faith  that  characterized  our 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


grandfathers  and  grandmothers  when  this  Church  was  re-established  in 
our  dispensation. 

If  you  will  permit,  I  would  like  to  cite  you  just  one  or  two  instances 
which  make  me  feel  this  way. 


One  time  when  I  was  in  the  Mexican  Mission  I  passed  through 
a  little  town  in  Arizona,  and  asked  a  man  how  he  felt  regarding  the 
depression.  He  said:  "We  feel  just  as  we  always  do,  Brother  Ivins. 
It  is  always  depression  in  this  section."  I  happened  to  know  that  that 
man  had  a  family  of  six  or  eight,  and  that  every  boy  and  girl  that  he 
had,  who  was  of  age,  had  performed  a  mission  for  the  Church,  one  of 
them  at  that  very  time  serving  in  the  Mission  over  which  I  had  the 
privilege  of  presiding. 

Not  very  many  weeks  ago  a  man  came  into  my  office  with  his  son. 
He  said :  "Brother  Ivins,  I  am  presenting  this  son  for  a  mission."  The 
few  questions  that  I  directed  to  him  brought  out  the  fact  that  this  was 
the  ninth  child  of  his  to  fulfil  a  mission  for  the  Church ;  that  in  addition 
to  those  nine,  he  had  supported  his  brother  on  a  mission,  and  was  at  that 
very  time  supporting  a  man,  who  was  not  of  his  family,  in  the  New 
England  States  Mission. 

One  time  when  I  was  interviewing  a  young  man  in  Idaho,  his  father 
having  brought  him  in,  said:  "Brother  Ivins,  we  recommend  this  boy 
for  a  short-term  mission.  If,  however,  the  leaders  of  the  Church  feel 
that  he  should  serve  a  full  term,  they  are  welcome  to  his  services,  but  in 
that  event  my  wife  and  I  will  be  forced  to  sacrifice  our  home,  which 
represents  the  savings  of  our  lifetime.  We  are  willing  to  do  it  if  the 
Church  requires  it." 

Those  things  indicate  to  me  that  in  those  instances,  at  least,  there 
is  a  fine  degree  of  faith  within  the  Church.  As  we  move  around  we  inter- 
view prospective  missionaries  who  are  to  be  called  to  go  out  into  the 
world,  and  we  ask  them  some  very  pertinent  and  sometimes  very  delicate 
questions,  to  find  out  just  what  their  attitude  is,  and  how  they  have  lived. 
I  find,  to  my  utter  pleasure  and  satisfaction,  that  almost  without 
exception  those  young  men  and  young  women  are  able  to  tell  me,  and 
look  me  honestly  in  the  eye  when  they  do  it,  that  in  preparation  for  this 
great  event  in  their  lives  they  have  lived  clean  and  pure  lives. 

Now,  when  that  type  of  faith  exists  within  the  Church  I  am  not 
particularly  worried  as  to  the  future.  I  feel  that  God  is  going  to  be 
justified  in  honoring  the  Priesthood  which  He  has  here  in  the  Church  at 
this  time,  and  that  He  will  not  feel  like  taking  the  Gospel  from  us. 


iO'lKsWe  had  portrayed  the  accomplishments  of  the  Church  Welfare 
work,  the  other  day,  in  the  program  of  one  of  these  meetings.  Nobody 
can  look  at  those  things  and  tell  me  that  there  is  not  faith  still  in  the 
Church.  I  think  we  are  meeting  those  problems  with  a  wonderful  display 


FAITH  IN  MISSIONARY  WORK 


4 


LOVE  OF  NEIGHBOR  EXHIBITED  IN  WELFARE  WORK 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


99 


of  faith.  It  gives  me  an  unbounded  satisfaction  to  realize  that  men  are 
willing  to  devote  their  time  and  their  talents,  not  only  without  compensa- 
tion, but  at  their  expense,  for  the  welfare  of  their  fellows. 

The  injunction  of  Christ  was  that  we  should  love  God,  our  heavenly 
Father,  first,  and  our  neighbor  second ;  and  this  is  indication  to  me  that 
we  do,  most  of  us  at  least,  love  our  neighbors,  for  we  are  willing  to  work 
for  them,  and  work  for  them  for  nothing,  help  them  over  their  pitfalls 
and  out  of  their  troubles,  and  to  a  higher  state  of  living. 

Now,  why  should  we  be  terribly  pessimistic  over  this  outlook,  when 
we  realize  that  those  conditions  prevail?  We  do  recognize  the  fact, 
however,  that  there  are  conditions  within  the  Church  which  need  rectify- 
ing. There  are  too  few  of  us  who  are  living  fully  and  completely  up  to 
our  opportunities. 

MELCHIZEDEK  PRIESTHOOD  PERCENTAGES 

I  have  had  the  privilege  of  checking,  this  year,  the  relationship 
between  the  number  of  families  in  the  Church  and  the  number  of  mem- 
bers in  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  I  find  that  in  some  of  the  Stakes  the 
proportion  between  families  in  the  Stake  and  members  of  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  is  as  low  as  fifty-five.  In  other  places  it  runs  up  to  eighty-eight 
or  ninety.  In  Colonia  Juarez,  the  other  day,  I  checked  that  very  item, 
and  I  found  those  people  down  there  having  representatives  in  the 
Melchisedek  Priesthood  to  the  extent  of  eighty-eight  per  cent  of  their 
families,  I  believe ;  but  just  recently  another  Stake  checked  as  low  as 
fifty-five. 

What  does  this  mean?  It  means,  to  me,  that  too  few  of  us  are 
taking  advantage  of  the  sealing  ordinances  in  the  temple.  Things  like 
that,  and  other  things,  need  rectifying,  to  be  sure,  but  I  insist,  and  I 
leave  it  to  you  as  my  testimony,  that  there  is  within  this  Church  an 
honest,  true  faith  in  God  our  heavenly  Father,  and  I  think  the  mani- 
festations of  these  Conference  meetings  bear  me  out  in  that  testimony. 

I  pray  that  God  will  help  us  to  keep  it  bright  within  our  hearts, 
that  we  may  never  falter  in  His  service,  and  that  He  will  be  pleased  to 
honor  us  and  bless  us  in  our  operations.   God  bless  you  all,  Amen. 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

During  the  period  from  10:30  to  11:00  a.  m.,  the  regular  weekly 
National  Broadcast  of  choral  and  organ  music  and  brief  spoken  com- 
ment was  included  as  part  of  the  Conference  proceedings.  This  program, 
now  in  its  twelfth  year  of  continuous  nationwide  broadcasting  was  pre- 
sented by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ,  and  broadcast  through  the 
courtesy  and  facilities  of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  system  network, 
throughout  the  United  States  and  Canada,  and  by  short-wave  transmis- 
sion to  many  foreign  lands.  This  broadcast  originated  with  Radio  Sta- 
tion KSL,  Salt  Lake  City,  and,  exclusive  of  routine  introductory  and 
closing  announcements,  was  as  follows : 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Choir 
Choir 


Crucifixus" —  Bach   

Ella  Entering  the  Cathedral" — Wagner. 


Announcer,  Richard  L.  Evans :  "And  Jesus  made  as  though  he  would 
have  gone  .  .  .  But  they  constrained  Him,  saying,  Abide  with  us  :  for  it  is 
toward  evening,  and  the  day  is  far  spent."  (Luke  24 :28-29)  And  blessed 
are  they  who  abide  His  coming,  as  the  gathering  storm  and  the  growing 
darkness  of  our  times  bring  with  them  those  events  that  move  us  on 
toward  another  eventide  of  which  the  prophets  of  all  generations  have 
spoken.  And  there  is  that  about  the  record  of  prophecy  which,  even 
though  it  may  not  be  pleasant  to  our  ears,  strikes  conviction  to  our  souls. 
For  "all  things  must  come  to  pass  in  their  time."  (Doctrine  and  Covenants 
64:32)  Time  and  the  relentless  march  of  events  brought  by  its  passing 
have  been  portrayed  in  musical  symbol  by  the  composer  Vierne,  and 
we  now  hear  "Westminster  Chimes"  moving  with  the  sweep  of  the 
hours  and  the  march  of  the  years — but  "the  day  or  the  hour  no  man 
knoweth;  but  it  shall  surely  come."  (Doctrine  and  Covenants  39:21). 

"Westminster  Chimes" — Vierne  ..Organ 

Announcer,  Richard  L.  Evans:  And  then  Stephen  said  unto  them: 
"As  your  fathers  did,  so  do  ye.  Which  of  the  prophets  have  not  your 
fathers  persecuted  ?"  This  accusing  question  could  be  asked  of  any  genera- 
tion, for  men  have  always  persecuted  those  who  have  seen  ahead  of  their 
own  time — whose  vision  has  been  enlarged  and  whose  understanding  has 
been  quickened  by  that  Spirit  which  giveth  light  to  every  man  that  cometh 
into  the  world  (Doc.  and  Cov.  84:46) — in  all  fields  of  thought  and 
knowledge,  pertaining  both  to  things  here  and  things  hereafter.  The 
Isaiahs,  the  Galileos,  the  Noahs  and  the  Columbuses,  the  Peters  and  the 
Pauls,  have  never  been  popular  in  their  own  day — but  they  have  been 
so  right  in  spite  of  the  unwillingness  of  their  own  generation  to  believe 
them.  And  it  would  not  seem  to  be  popular  to  say  now  in  our  day  that 
the  unprincipled  chaos  in  which  we  find  our  world  was  foreseen  by 
the  prophets  of  God  and  will  find  no  cure  and  no  lasting  peace  until  men 
turn  to  Him  and  pattern  their  lives  in  accordance  with  His  ways.  Mere 
lip  service  will  not  be  acceptable,  and  the  temporary  repentance  that  is 
forced  by  immediate  fear  and  present  stress  will  not  be  mistaken  for 
obedience  and  a  contrite  heart.  Let  the  cynic  enjoy  his  brief  day ;  let 
the  man  without  faith  deny  it,  and  let  the  unbelieving  take  such  hope 
as  they  can  find.  But  the  unchangeable  facts  remain,  and  there  rise  to 
meet  the  dissenting  chorus,  the  words  of  Stephen:  "Which  of  the 
prophets  have  not  your  fathers  persecuted  ?  And  when  they  heard  these 
things,  they  were  cut  to  the  heart  .  .  .  And  they  stoned  Stephen."  (Acts 
7:51-59)  "And  he  kneeled  down  and  cried:  To  thee  O  Lord  I  yield  my 
spirit."  This  event  of  New  Testament  record  was  given  musical  setting 
by  Mendelssohn  in  the  St.  Paul  from  which  Richard  Condie  and  the 
Tabernacle  choir  now  sing. 


"And  They  Stoned  Him"  and  "To  thee  O  Lord"— St.  Paul 

— Mendelessohn   Choir 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


101 


O  My  Father"  (Tune  "Harwell")— Lowell  Mason. 
Beautiful  Savior"  


Organ 
..Choir 


The  singing  of  the  Choir  was  conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall. 

Alexander  Schreiner  was  at  the  organ.  The  spoken  word  was  by  Richard 
L.  Evans. 


Immediately  following  the  conclusion  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
Organ  Broadcast,  the  following  nationwide  Church  of  the  Air  program 
was  presented  by  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  system,  as  a  part  of  the 
proceedings  of  the  Conference: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congregation  sang  two  verses  of  the 
hymn,  "For  the  Strength  of  the  Hills  We  Bless  Thee." 


Thy  kingdom  come,  Thy  will  be  done  in  earth,  as  it  is  in  heaven. 

For  nearly  twenty  centuries  millions  of  Christians  have  prayed  for 
the  coming  of  the  Kingdom  of  God,  and  for  more  than  twenty  centuries 
millions  of  people  have  persistently  rejected  the  conditions  indispensable 
to  the  realization  of  this  era  of  peace  and  brotherly  kindness. 

Even  though  the  essentials  for  a  better  world  have  not  been  generally 
accepted,  yet  mankind  has  ever  striven  for  a  better  way  of  living.  In 
every  progressive  age  of  the  world's  history  thinking  people  have  been 
dissatisfied  with  their  current  social  and  economic  conditions,  and  have 
sought  for  remedial  changes.  Many  of  their  hoped-for  Utopias,  however, 
though  they  have  inspired  men  to  action,  have  ended  only  as  dreams 
and  phantasies. 

In  response  to  this  urge  for  change,  the  twentieth  century  is  no 
exception.  Indeed,  during  the  last  fifty  years  people  have  witnessed 
greater  political  unrest,  more  stupendous  upheavals  than  have  probably 
•  occurred  in  the  same  length  of  time  in  the  history  of  the  world.  European 
monarchies  have  been  overthrown,  and  rising  out  of  the  monarchial  ruins 
have  come  the  dictatorship  of  the  proletariat  in  Russia,  the  Fascist  regime 
in  Italy,  the  Nazi  rule  in  Germany,  and  the  Fascist  form  of  government 
in  Spain.  Democracy,  as  exemplified  in  Great  Britain  and  her  dominions, 
and  in  the  United  States,  has  successfully  withstood  the  battling  horrors 
of  a  World  War,  and  now,  after  only  a  quarter  of  a  century,  is  again 
either  actually  participating  in  or  standing  on  the  brink  of  a  second 
devastating  conflict. 

If,  in  the  spirit  of  charity,  we  say  that  misguided  men  have  brought 
all  this  about  because  of  their  desire  for  a  better  government,  the  fact 
still  remains  that  civilization  is  encompassed  by  social  upheavals  that 
threaten  to  divert  if  not  entirely  thwart  the  progress  and  happiness  of 
the  present  generation. 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


102 

Sunday,  October  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


FUNDAMENTALS    IN  DISCARD 

Humanity  is  passing  through  one  of  its  most  crucial  experiences.  We 
are  in  the  midst  of  a  revolution  both  of  thought  and  mode  of  life.  Beliefs 
of  parents  are  questioned,  old  ideals  are  in  the  discard.  Communism, 
Naziism,  Fascism,  Totalitarianism  are  giving  birth  to  new  conceptions 
that  strike  relentlessly  at  beliefs  and  teachings  which  were  accepted  a 
decade  ago  as  fundamentals  and  unassailable.  "Under  the  influence  of  a 
science  as  superficial  as  proud,"  writes  M.  Paul  Gaul  tier,  a  leading 
publicist  of  France,  "old  beliefs  have  been  turned  into  ridicule,  conscience 
is  treated  as  a  superstition,  and  honesty  as  a  prejudice.  Self-interest 
alone  remains  as  a  motive,  and  pleasure  as  the  sole  end  of  life.  For 
too  many  people,"  he  continues,  "evil  consists  not  in  infringing  social 
laws,  but  in  getting  caught.  Morality  and  duty  figure  in  their  eyes  as 
so  many  prejudices  out  of  fashion,  and  vestiges  of  centuries  gone  by." 

Granting  the  severity  of  this  arraignment,  the  fact  still  remains  that 
moral  and  religious  skepticism  is  too  generally  apparent,  and  political 
chicanery,  fraud,  and  civic  unrighteousness  all  too  common. 

In  the  words  of  an  assistant  Secretary  of  State:  "We  seem  to  be 
slipping  backward  in  the  long  march  of  progress.  We  are  in  danger  of 
losing  part  of  the  precious  heritage  for  which  our  ancestors  fought  and 
gave  their  lives.  Human  liberty,  democracy,  parliamentary  government, 
freedom  of  speech,  tolerance,  faith — these  in  important  parts  of  the 
world  have  ceased  to  exist.  Autocracy  and  dictatorships  are  demanding 
men's  allegiance.  Political  institutions  are  cracking  ominously.  Demo- 
cratic government  is  fighting  for  its  life." 

To  climax  these  distracting  conditions,  war,  with  all  its  attendant 
horrors,  is  sweeping  the  earth  as  a  devastating  conflagration,  leaving  in  its 
wake  only  ashes,  agony,  and  death. 

Truly,  the  time  has  come  as  perhaps  never  before  when  men  should 
counsel  together,  and  in  wisdom  determine  how  the  world  may  be  made 
a  better  place  in  which  to  live. 

THE  PERFECT  GUIDE 

To  achieve  this  desired  end,  the  first  and  most  important  step  is  to 
choose  as  leader  one  whose  leadership  is  infallible,  whose  teachings  when 
practiced  have  never  failed.  In  the  present  tempestuous  sea  of  Uncertain- 
ty, the  Pilot  must  be  one  who  through  the  storm  can  see  the  beacon  in  the 
harbor  of  peace. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  proclaims  that 
there  is  but  one  such  Guiding  Hand  in  the  Universe,  but  one  unfailing 
Light,  and  that  the  Light  of  Christ  who  said  :  "I  am  come  that  they  might 
have  life,  and  that  they  might  have  it  more  abundantly."  An  active, 
sincere  faith  in  the  basic  teachings  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth  is  the  greatest 
need  of  the  world.  Because  many  reject  this  truth  is  all  the  more  reason 
why  sincere  believers  should  proclaim  it. 

The  ultimate  purpose  of  Christianity  is  to  develop  honorable,  upright 
individuals  in  an  ideal  society  known  as  the  Kingdom  of  God.    No  one. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


103 


not  even  the  unbeliever,  can  gainsay  this  as  a  most  worthy  goal.  True, 
nearly  two  thousand  years  of  trial  have  failed  to  bring  about  even  an 
approach  to  the  realization  of  either  the  perfecting  of  the  individual  or 
the  establishing  of  an  ideal  society.  As  a  result,  Christianity  and  its 
handmaiden,  Democracy,  are  now  on  trial  before  the  world  tribunal. 
The  fact  is,  however,  that  conditions  in  this  war-torn  world  instead  of 
proving, that  Christianity  has  failed,  emphatically  bear  witness  that  men 
are  forever  learning,  but  never  coming  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth ;  or, 
as  one  man  cynically  remarked,  "Men's  lives  consist  mostly  in  making 
the  same  mistakes  over  again." 

Christianity,  as  summarized  in  the  divine  admonition,  "Love  the 
Lord  thy  God,  and  thy  neighbor  as  thyself"  has  never  yet  been  accepted 
and  practiced  by  the  nations  of  the  world.  Were  that  principle  even 
partly  applied,  our  advanced  scientific  knowledge,  our  almost  unlimited 
mechanized  power,  our  unexcelled  opportunities  for  education  would 
be  directed,  not  as  now,  for  the  destruction  of  human  beings,  but  for 
the  betterment  of  individuals,  and  for  the  advancement  and  redemption 
of  mankind. 

As  the  first  essential  to  a  better  world,  therefore,  we  declare  with  the 
Apostle  Peter  that  there  is  "none,  other  name  under  heaven  given  among 
men  whereby  we  must  be  saved." 

IMPROVEMENT  IN  MORALS 

It  is  charged  that  "one  of  the  distinctive  traits  of  modern  society  in 
every  country  is  the  sinking  of  the  moral  ideal  in  the  minds  and  life  of 
the  people."  Manifestly,  then,  a  second  essential  in  world  betterment 
is  the  raising  of  the  moral  standard. 

If  anyone  listening  in  is  saying  to  himself  "this  is  trite,"  then  I  say 
such  a  thought  itself  justifies  the  call  for  men  who  will  re-dedicate  them- 
selves to  the  principles  of  honesty,  justice,  tolerance,  and  love,  and  who 
will  practice  these  virtues  in  their  business  and  professional  activities. 
"And  this  life  is  possible,"  as  someone  has  declared,  "in  social  conditions 
the  most  diverse,  and  with  natural  gifts  the  most  unequal.  It  is  not 
fortune,  or  personal  advantage,  but  our  turning  them  to  account  that 
constitutes  the  value  of  life."  "Nothing,"  says  Emerson,  "can  bring 
you  peace  but  the  triumph  of  principles." 

In  the  light  of  political  scandals  recently  disclosed  in  some  of  our 
States,  what  a  brilliant  though  discarded  gem,  for  example,  is  the  plain, 
every-day  principle  of  honesty.  Though  as  genuine  as  the  blue-tinted 
diamond,  how  little  it  is  valued  in  a  world  where  "business  is  honey- 
combed with  dishonesty,  and  the  political  world  abounds  in  duplicity  and 
chicanery."  Even  to  repeat  such  a  charge  makes  one  feel  heavy-hearted. 
In  contrast,  recall  the  calm  assurance,  the  confidence  that  pervades  your 
soul  when  you  konw  you  are  in  the  presence  of  one  whom  you  can  trust. 
Let  us  re-polish,  and  make  more  brilliant  this  old-fashioned  principle  so 
essential  to  human  happiness.  Would  that  all  men  and  nations  might 
unite  with  the  Church  in  saying: 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  6  Third  Day 

We  believe  in  being  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in  do- 
ing good  to  all  men. 

A  RE-DEDICATION  TO  PRINCIPLES  OF  UNSELFISHNESS 

Man  needs  a  re-dedication  to  the  principles  of  unselfishness.  No 
peace  or  freedom  can  come  to  this  world  so  long  as  men  live  only  for 
themselves.  It  is  true  that  self-preservation  is  the  first  law  of  nature, 
but  it  is  not  a  law  of  spiritual  growth.  He  who  lets  selfishness  and  his 
passions  rule  him  binds  his  soul  in  slavery,  but  he  who,  in  the  majesty  of 
spiritual  strength,  uses  his  physical  tendencies  and  yearnings,  and  his  pos- 
sessions to  serve  purposes  higher  than  personal  indulgence  and  comf  ort, 
takes  the  first  step  toward  the  happy  and  useful  life.  This  truth  was  taught 
not  only  "in  the  Beginning"  when  the  Gospel  was  first  revealed  to  man, 
but  also  when  the  Savior  began  His  earthly  ministry.  On  the  Mount  of 
Temptation  was  enacted  the  first  scene  in  the  Christ's  earthly  drama  of 
the  abundant  life.  There  He  resisted  the  challenge  to  gratify  His 
appetite ;  He  turned  aside  the  appeal  to  His  vanity  and  pride ;  He  scorned 
the  bribe  of  worldly  wealth  and  power,  as  in  spiritual  victory  He  said  to 
the  Tempter,  "Get  thee  hence,"  and  "angels  came  and  ministered  unto 
Him."  Only  thus  by  the  brilliant  triumph  of  the  spirit  over  the  flesh  can 
we  hope  for  a  better  world. 

UPHOLDING  THE  CONSTITUTION 

Finally,  if  we  would  make  the  world  better,  let  us  foster  a  keener 
appreciation  of  the  freedom  and  liberty  guaranteed  by  the  government 
of  the  United  States  as  framed  by  the  founders  of  this  nation.  Here 
again  self -proclaimed  progressives  cry  that  such  old-time  adherence  is  out 
of  date.  But  there  are  some  fundamental  principles  of  this  Republic 
which,  like  eternal  truths,  never  get  out  of  date,  and  which  are  applicable 
at  all  times  to  liberty-loving  peoples.  Such  are  the  underlying  principles 
of  the  Constitution,  a  document  framed  by  patriotic,  freedom-loving  men, 
who  Latter-day  Saints  declare  were  inspired  by  the  Lord. 

This  date,  October  6,  has  been  set  apart  by  churches  as  "Loyalty 
Day."  It  is  highly  fitting,  therefore,  as  a  means  of  making  the  world 
better,  not  only  to  urge  loyalty  to  the  Constitution  and  to  threatened 
fundamentals  of  the  United  States  government,  but  to  warn  the  people 
that  there  is  evidence  in  the  United  States  of  disloyalty  to  tried  and  true 
fundamentals  in  government.  There  are  unsound  economic  theories ; 
there  are  European  "isms,"  which,  termite  like,  secretly  and,  recently, 
quite  openly  and  defiantly,  are  threatening  to  undermine  our  democratic 
institutions. 

Today,  as  never  before,  the  issue  is  clearly  defined — liberty  and 
freedom  of  choice,  or  oppression  and  subjugation  for  the  individual  and 
for  nations. 

As  we  contemplate  the  deplorable  fact  that  within  the  brief  space 
of  one  year,  TEN  European  nations  have  lost  their  independence,  that 
over  TWO  HUNDRED  AND  FIFTY  MILLION  people  have  sur- 
rendered all  guarantees  of  personal  liberty,  deeper  should  be  our  grati- 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


tude,  more  intense  our  appreciation  of  the  Constitution,  and  more 
strengthened  our  determination  to  resist  at  all  costs  any  and  all  attempts 
to  curtail  our  liberties,  or  to  change  the  underlying  system  of  our  govern- 
ment. ,   ,   ,.  .'  .  ;  , 

CONCLUSION 

When  the  people  who  call  themselves  Christian  militantly  enlist 
under  the  leadership  of  the  One  to  whom  they  refer  as  King  of  the 
World;  when  they  accept  as  facts  and  not  as  theories  His  moral  and 
spiritual  teachings;  when  for  selfishness  they  substitute  kindness  and 
thoughtf  ulness  for  others ;  when  they  aggressively  defend  the  principles 
of  true  liberty,  then  may  we  begin  to  realize  the  hope  that  Wrong  may 
be  abolished,  Righteousness  be  enthroned  in  human  hearts,  and  honest 
relations  and  justice  become  the  daily  practice  of  society.  Then,  and 
not  until  then,  will  the  kingdoms  of  this  world  become  the  kingdoms  of 
our  God. 

Then  shall  all  shackles  fall ;  the  stormy  clangor 
Of  wild  war  music  o'er  the  earth  shall  cease ; 
Love  shall  tread  out  the  baleful  fire  of  anger, 
And  in  its  ashes  plant  the  tree  of  peace ! 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang,  "To  Thee  O  Lord  Do  I  Lift  Up  My 
Soul,"  by  Kalinnikoff,  and  "Doxology." 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  led  the  singing,  Alexander  Schreiner  was  at  the 
organ,  and  the  program  was  announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans. 

(End  of  the  Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast) 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  have  all  been  edified,  instructed,  and  built  up  by  President 
McKay's  great  address. 

Our  next  speaker  will  be  Elder  George  Albert  Smith  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

No  normal  man,  having  partaken  of  the  inspiration  that  we  have 
enjoyed  this  morning  while  singing  the  praises  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
and  listening  to  the  addresses  of  the  brethren,  could  stand  in  the  presence 
of  an  audience  like  this  without  realizing  his  need  for  divine  guidance. 
I  would  not  undertake  this  responsibility  if  I  did  not  believe  that  the 
Lord  would  help  me  in  what  I  may  say. 

This  is  the  222nd  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  Each  one  preceding  it  has  been  favored  by  the  Lord  in 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  6 


Third  Dag 


that  he  has  fulfilled  his  promise  to  his  sons  and  daughters  who  were 
assembled  in  worship,  that  he  would  be  with  them  to  bless  them,  and  he 
is  fulfilling  that  promise  today. 

SABBATH  OBSERVANCE  UPLIFTING 

This  is  the  Lord's  day,  an  appropriate  time  for  us  to  meet  together 
in  His  name,  for  He  has  commanded  that  we  should  assemble  on  the 
Sabbath  to  pay  our  devotions  to  the  Most  High.  I  know  of  no  more 
beautiful  spot  in  all  the  world  than  this  in  which- people  are  permitted  to 
worship.  I  avail  myself  of  the  opportunity  to  thank  those  who  look  after 
this  block,  particularly  Brother  Nauman,  the  good  man  who  has  devoted 
much  of  his  life  to  making  Temple  Square  delightful  to  all  visitors.  The 
flowers  that  have  adorned  the  stand  during  this  conference  are  his 
contribution  to  our  happiness  in  this  sanctuary  and  I  know  of  no  place 
where  flowers  are  more  appropriate  than  in  the  House  of  the  Lord. 

What  an  uplift  would  come  to  the  world  if  all  of  our  Father's  chil- 
dren on  this,  the  Sabbath  day,  instead  of  warring  on  one  another  were 
seeking  Him  in  worship  and  humbly  praying  for  His  all-wise  guidance 
in  conducting  their  lives.  With  that  attitude  among  men  war  would  cease, 
but  if  men  continue  to  refuse  to  obey  the  counsels  of  the  Master  of 
heaven  and  earth  destruction  will  increase  until  civilization  may  disappear 
from  the  earth. 

PROPHETS  HAVE  RAISED  A  WARNING  VOICE 

The  Lord  has  warned  us  of  our  danger  and  advised  how  to  escape  it. 
Amos,  the  prophet,  said,  "Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  nothing,  but  He 
revealeth  His  secret  unto  His  servants  the  prophets."  Many  prophecies 
are  already  fulfilled  and  others  will  be  in  the  near  future. 

Centuries  have  passed  since  our  first  parents  began  their  mortal 
existence  and  were  advised  by  the  Lord  how  to  obtain  happiness.  For 
hundreds  of  years  we  have  had  His  instruction  through  His  prophets 
recorded  as  scripture  so  that  we  could  know  what  He  had  desired  of  us. 
Isn't  it  strange  that  after  centuries  of  opportunity  to  know  the  truth  as 
taught  by  the  Father  of  all  a  majoriy  of  the  people  of  this  world  do  not 
believe  it  or  accept  him  as  the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob.  That 
they  do  not  accept  His  teachings  is  evident  that  they  do  not  believe  in 
Him,  and  it  is  disappointing  that  in  the  year  1940  in  our  own  land  there 
are  many  who  fail  to  realize  that  God  is  our  Heavenly  Father. 

Men  cannot  justify  their  delinquencies  before  the  great  Judge  by 
declaring  that  they  have  not  had  the  opportunity  to  know,  for  all  down 
through  the  ages  prophets  of  the  Lord  have  been  teaching  what  He  desires 
us  to  know,  and  in  our  own  day  and  age  opportunity  unparalleled  in  the 
history  of  the  world  has  been  offered  to  the  children  of  men  to  know  that 
there  is  a  God  and  that  we  are  His  children.  Here  we  are  in  worship 
enjoying  the  peace  and  the  inspiration  of  our  Heavenly  Father  with  the 
assurance  that  He  can  hear  and  answer  our  prayers.  Yet  in  some  parts 
of  the  earth  today  there  are  multitudes  who  are  seeking  to  destroy  one 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


107 


another.  They  have  no  desire  to  worship  God  or  accept  His  advice.  They 
prefer  to  have  their  own  wrong  way  and  be  wilful  in  having  it. 

The  Holy  Bible  is  a  most  wonderful  record  and  if  there  ever  was 
a  time  when  we  should  know  what  it  contains  it  is  now.  Many  would 
be  surprised  if  they  would  read  it,  to  discover  that  some  of  the  predictions 
that  were  made  by  the  servants  of  the  Lord  thousands  of  years  ago  are 
now  in  course  of  fulfilment.  It  would  astonish  some  people  to  know  that 
the  Prophet  Isaiah,  seven  hundred  years  before  the  birth  of  Christ, 
predicted  His  coming.  Two  hundred  years  before  the  fall  of  Babylon  he 
predicted  its  destruction,  and  told  in  remarkable  detail  what  would  follow 
even  down  to  this  day.   He  said  (Isaiah  13  :19-22)  : 

And  Babylon,  the  glory  of  Kingdoms,  the  beauty  of  the  Chaldees' 
excellency,  shall  be  as  when  God  overthrew  Sodom  and  Gomorrah. 

It  shall  never  be  inhabited,  neither  shall  it  be  dwelt  in  from  genera- 
tion to  generation ;  neither  shall  the  Arabian  pitch  tent  there ;  neither  shall 
the  shepherds  make  their  fold  there. 

But  wild  beasts  of  the  desert  shall  lie  there ;  and  their  houses  shall 
be  full  of  doleful  creatures ;  and  owls  shall  dwell  there,  and  satyrs  shall 
dance  there. 

And  the  wild  beast  of  the  islands  shall  cry  in  their  desolate  houses, 
and  dragons  in  their  pleasant  palaces  ;  and  her  time  is  near  to  come,  and  her 
days  shall  not  be  prolonged. 

'  If  the  Lord  had  not  revealed  it  to  him  Isaiah  could  not  have  known 
these  things.  We  today  are  witnesses  that  that  promise  is  still  in  effect, 
notwithstanding  that  when  the  prophecy  was  uttered  Babylon  was  the 
greatest  city  in  all  the  world,  the  wealthiest  and  the  most  powerful  of  all 
kingdoms,  and  was  governed  by  the  greatest  of  all  earthly  kings. 

Sometimes  we  forget  that  the  Lord  has  spoken  and  we  fail  to  inform 
ourselves  to  His  decrees.  Read  the  prophecies  of  Jeremiah  and  Ezekiel 
with  reference  to  Tyre,  or  the  strong  city,  and  how  they  were  fulfilled  and 
the  city  overthrown.  The  ruins  are  still  visible  in  the  bottom  of  the  sea, 
and  the  original  site  is  a  barren  rock. 

The  dream  of  Nebuchadnezzar  about  the  great  image,  interpreted 
by  Daniel  more  than  two  thousand  years  ago,  was  still  in  process  of  ful- 
fillment when  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  was  organized  in  1830. 

Read  in  Joshua,  Chapter  6,  of  the  threat  against  the  man  who  dared 
to  rebuild  the  city  of  Jericho  and  its  remarkable  fulfillment  when  Hiel 
after  hundreds  of  years,  disregarding  Joshua's  warning,  lost  his  two 
sons  when  he  laid  the  foundations  and  set  up  the  gates  of  the  city. 

The  scriptures  are  replete  with  the  prophecies  of  the  servants  of 
God  that  are  fulfilled.  They  were  humble  men  such  as  are  here  in  this 
house  today ;  but  under  the  inspiration  of  our  Heavenly  Father  the  heav- 
ens were  opened  to  them,  the  future  was  revealed  and  they  predicted  with 
certainty  what  should  occur.  They  could  foretell  the  future  but  it  re- 
quired the  Master  of  heaven  and  earth,  our  Heavenly  Father,  to  fulfill 
their  promises. 

A  PROPHECY  FULFILLED  IN  LATTER  DAYS 

We  find  one  promise  was  made  that  particularly  points  to  us.  I  refer 
to  that  of  Micah  when  he  said:  (Micah  4:1-2) 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  6  Third  Day 

The  mountain  of  the  house  of  the  Lord  shall  be  established  in  the  top 
of  the  mountains,  and  it  shall  be  exalted  above  the  hills ;  and  people  shall 
flow  unto  it. 

And  many  nations  shall  come,  and  say,  Come,  and  let  us  go  up  to 
the  mountain  of  the  Lord,  and  to  the  house  of  the  God  of  Jacob;  and  he 
will  teach  us  of  his  ways,  and  we  will  walk  in  his  paths ;  for  the  law  shall 
go  forth  of  Zion,  and  the  word  of  the  Lord  from  Jerusalem. 

Can  you  think  of  any  place  but  this  to  which  the  people  of  the  various 
nations  of  the  earth  have  been  gathered  in  fulfillment  of  this  prediction? 
Micah  did  not  know  of  himself  that  God  would  establish  this  Church ;  he 
did  not  know  that  another  prophet  would  come  and  predict  things  with 
reference  to  this  time ;  no  man  could  know.  But  the  Father  who  knoweth 
all  things  revealed  it  to  him ;  he  predicted  it,  it  was  recorded  and  the  chil- 
dren of  men  are  fulfilling  the  prediction. 

Dozen  of  passages  in  the  scriptures  could  be  cited  as  evidence  that 
our  Heavenly  Father  in  mercy  and  kindness  has  been  talking  to  the  chil- 
of  men  all  down  through  the  ages,  not  only  telling  them  what  would  occur, 
but  pleading  with  them  to  turn  from  the  error  of  their  ways  lest  destruc- 
tion should  overtake  them. 

The  destruction  of  Jerusalem  was  foretold  by  Jeremiah,  a  prophet 
of  the  Lord,  and  his  prediction  fulfilled  to  the  very  letter.  The  scattering 
of  Judah  was  predicted  by  the  Prophet  Ezekiel  hundreds  of  years  before 
it  occurred  and  Judah  is  still  scattered.  Isaiah  named  the  man  who  should 
rebuild  Jerusalem  a  hundred  years  before  he  was  born.  How  did  that 
prophet  know  that  his  name  would  be  Cyrus  if  the  Lord  did  not  reveal 
it  unto  him  ? 

PROMISES  MADE  REGARDING  AMERICAN  CONTINENT 

In  the  Book  of  Mormon,  "The  American  volume  of  scripture,"  the 
Lord  has  given  to  us  information  pertaining  to  this  land  upon  which 
we  dwell  and  called  it  a  land  favored  above  all  other  lands.  I  recommend 
that  not  only  you  Latter-day  Saints  read  the  Book  of  Mormon,  but  that 
our  Father's  other  children  read  it.  They  will  find  that  it  contains,  in 
addition  to  what  the  Bible  has  told  us  about  the  world,  what  the  Lord 
has  said  about  this  Western  Hemisphere — that  this  should  be  a  land  of 
liberty  unto  the  Gentiles  and  that  no  king  should  dwell  upon  this  land,  but 
that  He,  the  God  of  Heaven,  would  be  our  King  and  would  fortify  this 
land  against  all  the  nations,  that  this  should  be  a  land  of  peace  and  happi- 
ness, on  condition  that  we  would  honor  the  God  of  this  earth,  the  Father 
of  us  all.  The  factor  controlling  this  promise  is  that  we  must  keep  the 
commandments  of  our  Heavenly  Father  or  it  cannot  be  realized. 

MODERN  PROPHECIES 

In  our  day  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has  spoken.  Through  him 
there  have  been  given  to  the  world  many  things  that  are  important,  many 
revelations  that  later  were  fulfilled. 

Nearly  thirty  years  before  the  Civil  War  commenced  in  our  country 
he  predicted  that  it  would  occur  and  that  it  would  begin  in  South  Carolina. 
How  did  Joseph  Smith  know  that  if  God  did  not  reveal  it  to  him?  How 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


109 


could  he  pick  out  the  very  place  that  it  should  begin  ?  I  think  it  would 
be  desirable  to  read  what  the  Lord  said  at  that  time,  December  25,  1832. 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Section  87 : 

Verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord  concerning  the  wars  that  will  shortly  come 
to  pass,  beginning  at  the  rebellion  of  South  Carolina,  which  will  eventually 
terminate  in  the  death  and  misery  of  many  souls ; 

And  the  time  will  come  when  war  will  be  poured  out  upon  all  nations, 
beginning  at  this  place.  *  *  * 

With  the  sword  and  by  bloodshed  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  shall 
mourn;  and  with  famine,  and  plague,  and  earthquake,  and  the  thunder  of 
heaven,  and  the  fierce  and  vivid  lightning  also,  shall  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth  be  made  to  feel  the  wrath,  and  indignation,  and  chastening  hand  of  an 
Almighty  God,  until  the  consumption  decreed  hath  made  a  full  end  of  all 
nations. 

Just  as  in  the  centuries  that  are  past  when  the  Lord  spoke  through 
Isaiah,  Jeremiah,  Ezekiel  and  his  other  prophets  he  has  spoken  in  our 
day  through  His  prophet,  Joseph  Smith.  When  the  Church  was  still  build- 
ing the  beautiful  city  of  Nauvoo,  Illinois,  he  predicted  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  would  he  driven  from  their  homes,  that  they  would  find  a  place 
in  the  tops  of  the  Rocky  Mountains,  and  that  they  would  become  a  mighty 
people  in  the  midst  thereof.  How  did  he  know?  He  knew  by  the  same 
power  that  Isaiah  and  the  Prophets  of  old  knew  with  reference  to  the 
things  ,  they  predicted. 

Read  the  revelations  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  that  inform  us 
how  we  may  escape  the  calamities  that  are  to  cover  the  earth  and  afflict 
all  mankind.  We  are  better  than  other  people  only  as  we  live  better.  We 
have  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  responsibility  of  disseminating  it 
among  the  children  of  men  has  been  magnificently  performed  in  all  parts 
of  the  world  by  more  than  60,000  of  the  sons  and  daughters  of  the  living 
God.  To  the  ends  of  the  earth  from  this  sacred  building  have  been  broad- 
cast by  radio  songs  of  praise,  accompanied  by  the  great  organ  sermons 
of  truth,  expressions  of  gratitude  and  thanksgiving  intended  for  the 
blessing  of  all  mankind.  We  meet  today  in  this  great  Tabernacle  built 
during  the  poverty  of  the  people  and  dedicated  to  the  Lord,  the  father  of 
our  spirits,  and  while  we  have  been  sitting  here  the  voice  of  one  of  his 
faithful  servants  has  gone  out  not  only  to  all  parts  of  our  nation  but  to  the 
islands  of  the  sea  and  other  distant  lands. 

RESPONSIBILITIES  OF  CHURCH  MEMBERS 

Our  Heavenly  Father,  through  His  faithful  representatives,  has  told 
us  of  the  important  things  that  should  occur  and  we  can  read  about  them 
in  His  holy  scriptures.  If  we  really  desire  to  be  saved  and  exalted  in  His 
celestial  kingdom  He  has  told  us  how  to  proceed  and  has  warned  us  that 
we  must  discharge  the  obligations  entitling  us  to  that  exaltation.  While 
we  enjoy  this  blessing  it  carries  with  it  a  tremendous  responsibility.  Every 
man  and  every  woman  under  the  sound  of  my  voice  who  has  accepted  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  who  has  gone  down  into  the  waters  of  baptism 
and  been  confirmed  a  member  of  His  Church  should  so  live  that  others 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  6  Third  Dag 

seeing  their  upright  lives  may  be  constrained  to  accept  the  Gospel  of  our 
Lord  and  prepare  to  become  faithful  sons  and  daughters. 

Now  in  conclusion,  let  me  say  that  God  lives,  I  know  that  the  Bible 
contains  His  holy  word.  I  know  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  a  history 
of  the  ancestors  of  the  American  Indians  and  tells  of  God's  hand-dealings 
with  His  children  here  in  America  in  an  early  day.  I  know  that  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  contains  the  promises  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
to  the  children  of  men — wonderful  promises  that  can  only  be  realized  by 
us  if  we  make  ourselves  worthy  of  them  by  living  correct  lives.  Let  us 
who  have  accepted  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord  evidence  our  knowledge  of  its 
truth,  let  us  demonstrate  our  assurance  of  its  power  and  set  such  an 
example  before  all  the  world  that  our  Father's  other  children,  whom  he 
loves  as  much  as  he  loves  us,  may  desire  not  only  to  search  the  old  scrip- 
tures but  to  read  the  new  scriptures  and  listen  to  the  voice  of  His  servants 
who  today  are  in  different  parts  of  the  world  calling  all  men  to  repentance, 
with  the  promise  that  if  they  will  repent  and  receive  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  as  revealed  by  Him  in  former  days  and  in  this  latter-day,  all — not 
just  a  few — but  all  may  be  exalted  in  His  celestial  kingdom  and  obtain 
glory,  immortality  and  eternal  life.  That  we  may  be  worthy  of  our 
heritage,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  Amen. 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 

Acting  President,  European  Missions 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  very  pleased  and  thankful  to  report 
that  in  spite  of  the  unsettled  and  rapidly  changing  conditions  in  Europe, 
our  Missions  are  functioning  almost  as  usual,  in  the  hands  of  local  people. 
All  headquarters,  with  the  exception  of  one,  are  maintained.  That  one 
exception  is  the  French  Mission.  The  headquarters  at  Paris  have  been 
closed  temporarily,  but  Brother  Gaston  Chappuis,  who  has  just  returned 
from  Paris  with  his  wife,  received  permission  just  before  leaving  to  visit 
Belgium,  and  he  reports  that  the  work  there  in  that  part  of  the  French 
Mission  is  well  organized ;  and  before  we  left  Switzerland  this  spring,  the 
other  part  of  the  French  Mission  in  Switzerland  was  placed  in  the  hands 
of  a  very  capable  brother,  and  the  French-Swiss  district  is  also  progess- 
ing  nicely. 

As  I  stated,  all  other  Missions  are  well  organized.  We  receive  letters 
quite  regularly.  We  have  asked  for  at  least  a  letter  a  month.  These  letters, 
of  course,  are  censored,  and  the  brethren  cannot  report  about  other  than 
Church  affairs — nothing  political.  On  all  the  mail  from  continental 
Europe  we  find  stamped  upon  the  envelope  the  word  "Geoffnet,"  or 
"Gepruft,"  the  German  word  for  censored ;  and  the  letters  coming  from 
Great  Britain  are  stamped  in  large  letters,  "Opened." 

All  the  Missions  report  that  Sunday  Schools,  Relief  Societies,  sacra- 
ment and  Priesthood  meetings,  as  well  as  branch  and  district  conferences 
are  being  held  as  usual ;  and  nearly  all  of  the  Missions  report  baptisms. 
In  a  letter  received  last  week  from  one  of  the  Missions,  they  reported 


ELDER  THOMAS E.  McKAY 


111 


fifty-five  baptisms  for  the  first  eight  months  of  this  year.  Three  of  the 
Missions  have'  reported  an  increase  in  tithing  and  Fast  offerings,  as  com- 
pared with  the  same  period  last  year. 

We  are  very  happy,  too,  and  thankful  to  report  that  in  those  coun- 
tries that  have  been  invaded  not  one  of  our  members,  whether  a  soldier 
or  lay  member,  has  lost  his  life  or  been  injured.  In  Norway,  and  also  in 
Holland  and  Belgium,  a  number  of  our  members  lost  their  homes  and 
everything  of  an  earthly  nature  that  they  had,  but  their  lives  were  spared. 
One  brother  is  reported  missing  in  the  British  Mission,  but  it  is  hoped 
that  he  is  in  Switzerland. 

In  a  letter  just  received  from  our  brother  in  charge  of  the  French- 
Swiss  district,  in  expressing  his  appreciation  for  a  few  extra 
Eras  that  we  had  sent  him — he  was  very  honest — said :  "I  am  receiving 
the  Era  already  from  Brother  Ursenbach,"  (a  former  Mission  Presi- 
dent), "but  I  am  very  glad  to  get  these  extra  numbers,  President  McKay, 
because  we  send  them  out  to  the  Tommies  who  are  interned  here."  Until 
that  time  we  had  not  realized  that  some  of  our  British  soldiers  were 
interned  in  Switzerland.  Once  in  a  while  a  little  political  news  creeps 
through. 

We  are  pleased  also  to  report  that  in  Great  Britain  all  members 
of  our  Church  holding  the  Medchizedek  Priesthood  have  been  excused 
from  army  service,  so  as  to  take  care  of  their  Church  work.  The  follow- 
ing is  a  copy  of  a  letter  to  Brother  Andre  K.  Anastasiou,  acting  President 
of  the  British  Mission  regarding  this  matter : 

Sir: 

I  am  directed  by  the  Minister  of  Labour  and  National  Service  to  refer 
to  your  recent  meeting  with  an  officer  of  this  department  and  your  letter  of 
22nd  July  regarding  the  position  under  the  National  Service  (Armed  Forces) 
Acts  of  men  in  Holy  Orders  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

In  reply,  I  am  to  state  that  it  has  now  been  decided  that  men  in  the 
major  Orders  may  be  regarded  as  covered  by  the  provisions  of  Section 
11  (1)  (e)  of  the  National  Service  (Armed  Forces)  Act,  193.9.  Such 
men  are  not,  therefore,  liable  to  be  called  up  for  service  under  that  Act 
and  they  are  not  required  to  register  when  other  men  of  their  age  class 
are  called  upon  to  do  so. 

As  regards  the  list  which  you  submitted  with  your  letter  of  22nd  July,  I 
am  to  state  that  all  the  men  referred  to  therein  will  be  regarded  as  covered 
by  the  statutory  exception  conferred  upon  men  in  Holy  Orders  except  the 
two  Priests  named. 

I  am,  Sir,        *    •  " 
Your  obedient  Servant 
(Signed)  R.  A.  Luce  . 

A.  K.  Anastasiou,  Esq. 
149  Nightingale  Lane 
London,  S.  W.  12 

Now  brethren  and  sisters,  in  conclusion  may  I  express  my  heartfelt 
appreciation  for  the  opportunity  that  has  been  given  to  me  to  continue, 
although  rather  remotely,  in  contact  with  these  brethren  and  sisters  in 
war-torn  Europe.  For  nine  years  I  had  the  privilege  of  associating  with 
those  people,  and,  brethren  and  sisters,  they  are  good  people.  They  love 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  6  Third  Dag 

the  Gospel ;  they  are  finding  in  very  deed  that  the  Gospel  is  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation.  It  is  a  great  comfort  to  them.  They  write :  "We 
are  all  right ;  we  have  the  Gospel." 

May  I  commend  to  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  concluding,  the  beau- 
tiful remarks  of  President  Grant  at  the  opening  of  this  session,  permeated 
with  tolerance  and  love ;  also  the  message  of  the  First  Presidency  read 
at  the  opening  of  the  first  session  of  our  Conference.  Read  that,  and 
re-read  it.  Tolerance  and  love  permeated  every  sentence. 

Who  seeks  for  heaven  alone  to  save  his  soul 
May  keep  the  path,  but  will  not  find  the  goal; 
While  he  who  walks  in  love  may  wander  far, 
But  God  will  bring  him  where  the  righteous  are. 

God  help  us  to  walk  in  love,  to  keep  His  commandments,  that  we 
may  enjoy  true  happiness  here  in  this  life,  as  well  as  in  the  life  to  come,  I 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  Lord  moves  in  a  mysterious  way  his  wonders  to  perform.  I 
know  that  all  of  our  hearts  rejoice  in  the  report  which  President  Mc- 
Kay has  been  able  to  make. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang,  "Alleluia,"  by  Mozart. 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  George  H.  Robinson,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Bear  Lake  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2 :00  p.  m. 

THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  convened  Sunday,  Oc- 
tober 6,  at  2  p.  m. 

Once  more  the  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity,  and  again  the 
large  Assembly  Hall  was  filled  with  listeners,  and  thousands  of  others 
congregated  on  the  Tabernacle  Square,  where,  by  means  of  amplifiers, 
they  listened  to  the  Conference  proceedings  as  given  in  the  Tabernacle. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  are  again  happy  that  President  Grant  is  present  and  presiding. 
He  has  asked  me  to  take  charge  of  the  meeting. 

This  afternoon  the  music  will  be  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  under 
the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  Dr.  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

The  choir. and  congregation  sang,  "Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints." 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  1 1 3 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  President  Thomas  E.  Towler,  of 
the  Wells  Stake. 

The  Choir  sang  "Lamb  of  God"  (Haydn). 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

And  again  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached  in  all  the 
world  for  a  witness  unto  all  nations;  and  then  shall  the  end  come,  or 
the  destruction  of  the  wicked. 

THE  CALL  TO  REPENTANCE 

These  words  were  spoken  by  our  Savior  to  His  disciples  shortly 
before  his  crucifixion.  They  have  reference  to  the  day  in  which  we 
live.  In  fulfilment  of  -that  prediction  the  Elders  of  this  Church  have 
been  preaching  the  Gospel  in  the  nations  of  the  earth  for  one  hundred 
and  ten  years,  they  have  been  raising  the  warning  voice  and  crying 
repentance.  It  was  not  only  expedient,  but  it  was  inspirational  that  the 
Presidency  of  this  Church,  at  the  opening  of  this  Conference  should 
send  forth  a  petition  or  an  epistle  not  only  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  but  to 
the  people  of  the  earth,  calling  them  to  repentance  and  giving  unto  them 
a  warning. 

From  the  very  beginning  the  Lord  has  called  upon  the  Elders  of  the 
Church  to  raise  the  warning  voice,  and  we  read : 

Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my  church,  saith  the  voice  of  Him  who 
dwells  on  high,  and  whose  eyes  are  upon  all  men;  yea,  verily  I  say: 
Hearken  ye  people  from  afar;  and  ye  that  are  upon  the  islands  of  the 
sea,  listen  together. 

That  is  the  call  from  the  Lord  to  every  soul  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth,  to  give  heed  to  His  warning.   Then  continuing  He  says : 

For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to 
escape;  and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall  not  see,  neither  ear  that  shall  not 
hear,  neither  heart  that  shall  not  be  penetrated. 

And  the  rebellious  shall  be  pierced  with  much  sorrow ;  for  their 
iniquities  shall  be  spoken  upon  the  housetops,  and  their  secret  acts  shall 
be  revealed. 

And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of 
my  disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days. 

And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none  shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord 
have  commanded  them. 

And  so  they  have  gone  forth,  bearing  witness  of  the  restoration 
of  the  Gospel,  preaching  repentance,  warning  the  people  of  the  calamities 
that  were  to  follow  their  preaching. 

A  WARNING  TO  THE  WORLD 

Wherefore,  fear  and  tremble,  O  ye  people,  for  what  I  the  Lord  have 
decreed  in  them — (that  is,  in  the  Elders) — shall  be  fulfilled. 

And  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  they  who  go  forth,  bearing  these 
tidings  unto  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  to  them  is  power  given  to  seal 
both  on  earth  and  in  heaven,  the  unbelieving  and  rebellious ; 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  6  Third  Day 

Yea,  verily,  to  seal  them  up  unto  the  day  when  the  wrath  of  God  shall 
be  poured  out  upon  the  wicked  without  measure — 

Unto  the  day  when  the  Lord  shall  come  to  recompense  unto  every 
man  according  to  his  work,  and  measure  to  every  man  according  to 
the  measure  which  he  has  measured  to  his  fellow  man. 

Wherefore  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  the  ends  of  the  earth,  that 
all  that  will  hear  may  hear : 

Prepare  ye,  prepare  ye  for  that  which  is  to  come,  for  the  Lord  is  nigh. 
Then  again  the  Lord  gave  this  instruction : 

Wherefore,  I  the  Lord,  knowing  the  calamity  which  should  come 
upon  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon  my  servant  Joseph  Smith, 
Jr.,  and  spake  unto  him  from  heaven,  and  gave  him  commandments ; 

And  also  gave  commandments  to  others,  that  they  should  proclaim 
these  things  unto  the  world;  and  all  this  that  it  might  be  fulfilled,  which 
was  written  by  the  prophets — 

The  weak  things  of  the  world  shall  come  forth  and  break  down  the 
mighty  and  strong  ones,  that  man  should  not  counsel  his  fellow  man, 
neither  trust  in  the  arm  of  flesh — ■ 

But  that  every  man  might  speak  in  the  name  of  God  the  Lord, 
even  the  Savior  of  the  world; 

That  faith  also  might  increase  in  the  earth; 

That  mine  everlasting  covenant  might  be  established ; 

That  the  fulness  of  my  Gospel  might  be  proclaimed  by  the  weak 
and  the  simple  unto  the  ends  of  the  world,  and  before  kings  and  rulers. 

That  proclamation  was  given  in  the  very  beginning  of  this  Church ; 
it  is  found  in  the  Preface  which  the  Lord  Himself  wrote  to  this  book  of 
commandments. 

Further,  again  the  Lord  says : 

For  I  am  no  respecter  of  persons,  and  will  that  all  men  shall  know 
that  the  day  speedily  cometh ;  the  hour  is  not  yet,  but  is  nigh  at  hand,  when 
peace  shall  be  taken  from  the  earth,  and  the  devil  shall  have  power  of  his 
own  dominion. 

And  also  the  Lord  shall  have  power  over  His  saints,  and  shall  reign 
in  their  midst,  and  shall  come  down  in  judgment  upon  Idumea,  or  the 
world. 

That  was  said  more  than  a  hundred  years  ago.  Peace  has  been 
taken  from  the  world,  the  devil  does  have  power  over  his  own  dominion 
today,  and  the  Lord  has  not  yet  come  to  dwell  with  His  Saints,  but  that 
also  shall  be  fulfilled. 

THE  JUDGMENTS  TO  COME 

Let  me  present  another  petition  to  the  nations  of  the  earth  and  to 
the  Elders  of  the  Church: 

Hearken  ye,  for,  behold,  the  great  day  of  the  Lord  is  nigh  at  hand. 

For  the  day  cometh  that  the  Lord  shall  utter  his  voice  out  of  heaven ; 
the  heavens  shall  shake  and  the  earth  shall  tremble,  and  the  trump  of 
God  shall  sound  both  long  and  loud,  and  shall  say  to  the  sleeping  nations : 
Ye  saints  arise  and  live;  ye  sinners  stay  and  sleep  until  I  shall  call  again. 

Wherefore  gird  up  your  loins  lest  ye  be  found  among  the  wicked. 

Lift  up  your  voices  and  spare  not.  Call  upon  the  nations  to  repent, 
both  old  and  young,  both  bond  and  free,  saying:  Prepare  yourselves 
for  the  great  day  of  the  Lord ; 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  115 


For  if  I,  who  am  a  man,  do  lift  up  my  voice  and  call  upon  you  to 
repent,  and  ye  hate  me,  what  will  ye  say  when  the  day  cometh  when  the 
thunders  shall  utter  their  voices  from  the  ends  of  the  earth,  speaking 
to  the  ears  of  all  that  live,  saying — Repent,  and  prepare  for  the  great 
day  of  the  Lord? 

Yea,  and  again,  when  the  lightnings  shall  streak  forth  from  the  east 
unto  the  west,  and  shall  utter  forth  their  voices  unto  all  that  live,  and 
make  the  ears  of  all  tingle  that  hear,  saying  these  words — Repent  ye, 
for  the  great  day  of  the  Lord  is  come? 

And  again,  the  Lord  shall  utter  his  voice  out  of  heaven,  saying: 
Hearken,  O  ye  nations  of  the  earth,  and  hear  the  words  of  that  God  who 
made  you. 

O,  ye  nations  of  the  earth,  how  often  would  I  have  gathered  you  to- 
gether as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under  her  wings,  but  ye  would 
not! 

How  oft  have  I  called  upon  you  by  the  mouth  of  my  servants,  and 
by  the  ministering  of  angels,  and  by  mine  own  voice,  and  by  the  voice  of 
thunderings,  and  by  the  voice  of  lightnings,  and  by  the  voice  of  tempests, 
and  by  the  voice  of  earthquakes,  and  great  hailstorms,  and  by  the  voice 
of  f  amines  and  pestilences  of  every  kind,  and  by  the  great  sound  of  a  trump, 
and  by  the  voice  of  judgment,  and  by  the  voice  of  mercy  all  the  day  long, 
and  by  the  voice  of  glory  and  honor  and  the  riches  of  eternal  life,  and 
would  have  saved  you  with  an  everlasting-  salvation,  but  ye  would  not ! 

Behold  the  day  has  come,  when  the  cup  of  the  wrath  of  mine  indignation 
is  full. 

Behold,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  these  are  the  words  of  the  Lord 
your  God. 

Wherefore,  labor  ye,  labor  ye  in  my  vineyard  for  the  last  time — for  the 
last  time  call  upon  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth. 

THE  WORD  OF  THE  LORD  TO  THE  MISSIONARIES 

Again  speaking  to  the  missionaries  in  an  early  day  the  Lord  said : 

Behold,  I  sent  you  out  to  testify  and  warn  the  people,  and  it  becometh 
every  man  who  hath  been  warned  to  warn  his  neighbor. 

Therefore,  they  are  left  without  excuse,  and  their  sins  are  upon  their 
own  heads. 

He  that  seeketh  me  early  shall  find  me,  and  shall  not  be  forsaken. 

Therefore,  tarry  ye,  and  labor  diligently,  that  you  may  be  perfected 
in  your  ministry  to  go  forth  among  the  Gentiles  for  the  last  time,  as  many 
as  the  mouth  of  the  Lord  shall  name,  to  bind  up  the  law  and  seal  up  the 
testimony,  and  to  prepare  the  saints  for  the  hour  of  judgment  which'is  to 
come : 

That  their  souls  may  escape  the  wrath  of  God,  the  desolation  of  abom- 
ination which  awaits  the  wicked,  both  in  this  world  and  in  the  world  to 
come.  Verily,  I  say  unto  you,  let  those  who  are  not  the  first  Elders  continue 
in  the  vineyard  until  the  mouth  of  the  Lord  shall  call  them,  for  their  time 
is  not  yet  come ;  their  garments  are  not  clean  from  the  blood  of  this  gen- 
eration. 

Abide  ye  in  the  liberty  wherewith  ye  are  made  free ;  entangle  not  your- 
selves in  sin,  but  let  your  hands  be  clean,  until  the  Lord  comes. 

For  not  many  days  hence  and  the  earth  shall  tremble  and  reel  to  and 
fro  as  a  drunken  man ;  and  the  sun  shall  hide  his  face,  and  shall  refuse  to 
give  light ;  and  the  moon  shall  be  bathed  in  blood ;  and  the  stars  shall  become 
exceedingly  angry,  and  shall  cast  themselves  down  as  a  fig  that  f alleth  from 
off  a  fig-tree. 

And  after  your  testimony  cometh  wrath  and  indignation  upon  the 
people. 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  6  Third  Day 

For  after  your  testimony  cometh  the  testimony  of  earthquakes,  that 
shall  cause  groanings  in  the  midst  of  her,  and  men  shall  fall  upon  the 
ground  and  shall  not  be  able  to  stand. 

And  also  cometh  the  testimony  of  the  voice  of  thunderings,  and  the 
voice  of  lightnings,  and  the  voice  of  tempests,  and  the  voice  of  the  waves 
of  the  sea  heaving  themselves  beyond  their  bounds. 

And  all  things  shall  be  in  commotion;  and  surely,  men's  hearts  shall 
fail  them;  for  fear  shall  come  upon  all  people. 

And  angels  shall  fly  through  the  midst  of  heaven,  crying  with  a  loud 
voice,  sounding  the  trump  of  God,  saying:  Prepare  ye,  prepare  ye,  O 
inhabitants  of  the  earth ;  for  the  judgment  of  our  God  is  come.  Behold, 
and  lo,  the  Bridegroom  cometh ;  go  ye  out  to  meet  Him. 

These  are  the  words  of  the  Lord  to  His  servants,  and  to  the  nations 
of  the  earth.  As  I  look  into  your  faces  I  see  before  me  hundreds, 
thousands,  who  have  been  gathered  out  from  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
either  you  or  your  parents,  but  you  heard  the  Gospel  in  foreign  lands.  In 
obedience  to  this  call  you  are  here  today.  Nations  have  refused  to  hear 
the  testimony  of  the  Elders  of  Israel  as  it  has  been  proclaimed,  and  the 
Lord  has  withdrawn  them  from  among  the  nations,  that  is,  many  of 
them.  He  has  done  that  because  they  have  rejected  the  truth,  and  because 
of  their  wickedness.  War  comes  because  of  wickedness ;  it  never  comes 
because  of  righteousness,  but  through  the  violation  of  the  laws  of  God. 

THE  WORD  OF  THE  LORD  HAS  GONE  FORTH 

Now,  the  Lord  has  predicted  all  these  things.  We  have  known 
this ;  it  has  been  taught  to  us  for  a  hundred  years.  We  have  been  in- 
formed that  it  is  necessary  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  for 
us  to  repent  of  our  sins,  for  us  to  walk  in  ways  of  righteousness,  and  do 
the  thing  that  the  Lord  would  have  us  do.  The  nations  have  had  procla- 
mations made  to  them  from  time  to  time.  In  the  early  days  of  this 
Church  it  was  very  customary  for  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  to  send 
forth  a  proclamation,  not  only  to  the  Saints,  but  to  the  inhabitants  of 
the  earth,  calling  upon  them  to  repent,  to  turn  from  their  ways  of  wicked- 
ness to  ways  of  righteousness,  accepting  the  fulness  of  the  Gospel  as  it 
has  been  revealed. 

It  is  nothing  new — should  not  be — to  us  to  see  these  calamities  and 
these  destructions  taking  place  upon  the  face  of  the  earth.  We  have  been 
warned;  the  Authorities  of  the  Church  have  spoken  from  the  very 
beginning  calling  attention  to  these  things.  We  have  seen  and  we  have 
read  in  the  records  the  Lord  has  given  us,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  that  all  these  things 
were  due  to  come  in  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  time. 

Now  let  me  read  this  other  scripture : 

Therefore,  verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord,  let  Zion  rejoice,  for  this  is 
Zion— THE  PURE  IN  HEART;  therefore,  let  Zion  rejoice,  while  all  the 
wicked  shall  mourn. 

For  behold,  and  lo,  vengeance  cometh  speedily  upon  the  ungodly  as 
the  whirlwind ;  and  who  shall  escape  it  ? 

The  Lord's  scourge  shall  pass  over  by  night  and  by  day,  and  the  report 
thereof  shall  vex  all  people ;  yea,  it  shall  not  be  stayed  until  the  Lord  come ; 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


117 


For  the  indignation  of  the  Lord  is  kindled  against  their  abominations 
and  all  their  wicked  works. 

Nevertheless,  Zion  shall  escape  if  she  observe  to  do  all  things  whatso- 
ever I  have  commanded  her. 

But  if  she  observe  not  to  do  whatsoever  I  have  commanded  her,  I  will 
visit  her  according  to  all  her  works,  with  sore  affliction,  with  pestilence, 
with  plague,  with  sword,  with  vengeance,  with  devouring  fire. 

THE  WAY  OF  ESCAPE 

Nevertheless,  let  it  be  read  this  once  to  her  ears,  that  I,  the  Lord,  have 
accepted  of  her  offering ;  and  if  she  sin  no  more  none  of  these  things  shall 
come  upon  her. 

We  have  the  means  of  escape  through  obedience  to  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Will  we  escape  ?  When  I  see,  even  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints  the  violation  of  the  laws  of  the  Lord,  I  fear  and  I  tremble.  I 
have  been  crying  repentance  among  the  Stakes  of  Zion  for  thirty  years, 
calling  upon  the  people  to  turn  to  the  Lord,  keep  His  commandments, 
observe  the  Sabbath  Day,  pay  their  honest  tithing,  do  everything  the  Lord 
has  commanded  them  to  do,  to  live  by  every  word  that  proceedeth  forth 
from  the  mouth  of  God. 

By  doing  this  we  shall  escape  the  calamities. 

I  am  going  to  repeat  what  I  have  said  before,  for  which  I  have 
been  severely  criticized  from  certain  quarters,  that  even  in  this  country 
we  have  no  grounds  by  which  we  may  escape,  no>  sure  foundation  upon 
which  we  can  stand,  and  by  which  we  may  escape  from  the  calamities  and 
destruction  and  the  plagues  and  the  pestilences,  and  even  the  devouring 
fire  by  sword  and  by  war,  unless  we  repent  and  keep  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord,  for  it  is  written  here  in  these  revelations. 

So  I  cry  repentance  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  cry  repentance 
to  the  people  of  the  United  States,  as  well  as  to  the  people  of  all  the 
earth.  May  we  turn  to  live  in  accordance  with  divine  law,  and  keep 
the  commandments  the  Lord  has  given,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  TvOelve  Apostles 
The  blessed  Savior  said : 

Let  not  your  heart  be  troubled;  ye  believe  in  God,  believe  also  in 
me.    John  14:1. 

Again 

For  I  will  reveal  myself  from  heaven  with  power  and  great  glory,  with 
all  the  hosts  thereof,  and  dwell  in  righteousness  with  men  on  earth  a 
thousand  years,  and  the  wicked  shall  not  stand. 

(Doctrine  &  Covenants  Section  29  :11.) 

BLESSINGS  TO  FOLLOW  JUDGMENTS 

The  earth,  in  spite  of  these  dark,  gloomy  days,  is  moving  forward  to 
a  glorious  ideal.  The  good  that  seems  imprisoned  is  working  toward 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  6  Third  Day 

deliverance  and  triumph.  "We  believe  that  Christ  will  reign  personally 
upon  the  earth,  and  that  the  earth  will  be  renewed  and  receive  its  para- 
disaical glory." 

The  judgments  that  are  raging  in  the  earth  are  testimonies  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  that  God's  blessings  will  follow,  for  He  loves  mercy 
more  than  judgment. 

STRENUOUS  WORK  NEEDED 

If  Paul  were  to  return  to  the  earth  now  would  he  say  to  the  Ameri- 
can people  what  he  said  to  the  people  of  his  day  ? 

The  people  sat  down  to  eat  and  drink,  and  rose  up  to  play. 

I  think  that  America  stands  in  need  of  the  gospel  of  strenuous  work. 
We  are  becoming  a  soft  people ;  we  like  our  nights  of  pleasure  and  our 
days  of  loafing.  There  would  not  be  nearly  so  much  sin  in  the  world 
today  if  men  and  women  would  work  more  and  play  less.  It  is  becoming 
a  practice  to  talk  much  of  our  rights.  These  rights  of  course  are  sacred ; 
they  are  God-given,  but  if  we  neglect  to  use  them  they  become  a  curse, 
as  it  were,  and  God  will  take  them  away. 

Why  not  talk  more  about  obligations  to  man,  to  country,  and  to  God  ? 
We  are  under  deep  obligation  to  care  for  our  fellow-creatures.  Think 
of  this  wonderful  truth  in  the  Book  of  Mormon : 

When  ye  are  in  the  service  of  your  fellow  beings  ye  are  only  in  the 
service  of  your  God. 

god's  purposes  to  be  fulfilled 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  the  mother  of 
men  because  it  has  given  so  much.  This  heaven-inspired  Church  Welfare 
Plan  creates  in  us  a  fine  desire  to  be  sympathetic  and  to  work,  and  to  help 
others  to  work.  The  joy  that  we  gain  from  service  to  men  is  not  easily 
measured. 

Wars  may  come,  and  they  will  go.  I  do  not  believe  the  Millennium 
is  imminent;  this  Church  is  consecrated  to  the  task  of  preaching  the 
Gospel  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people.  We  have  scarcely 
scratched  the  surface.  Where  we  are  baptizing  one  today,  in  the  not 
distant  future  we  are  going  to  baptize  fifty,  aye,  a  hundred,  for  God's 
purposes  are  sure  to  be  fulfillled.  He  does  not  delight  in  the  death  of 
the  wicked.  He  loves  His  children  and  through  His  servants,  He  is 
pleading  with  them  to  come  to  the  light,  which  results  in  obedience  to  Him. 

ETERNAL  RICHES  REMAIN 

The  days  are  dark ;  we  suffer  temptation,  we  suffer  hardships  of 
various  kinds,  but  there  is  one  thing  that  depression  and  war  cannot  take 
from  us.  I  refer  to  the  gift  of  eternal  life.  We  should  put  more  trust  in 
the  spiritual  values  of  existence.  The  things  which  are  seen  are  temporal ; 
but  the  things  which  are  not  seen  are  eternal.  Wars  may  rage,  famine 
may  come,  earthquakes  and  the  like,  and  depressions,  but  these  things 
cannot  take  away  the  eternal  riches  of  Jesus  Christ.  Some  of  these  riches 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


119 


are  the  glorous  atonement,  salvation  for  the  dead,  the  second  coming  of 
the  Son  of  God,  the  glorious  resurrection  and  the  eternity  of  the  marriage 
covenant  by  which  we  are  united  in  marriage  on  earth  and  in  heaven  by 
the  power  of  the  holy  Priesthood.  Thieves  and  misfortune  cannot  take 
these  things  from  us,  for  they  are  immortal,  God-given,  and  shall  survive 
death  and  destruction.  The  Apostle  Paul  sings  this  glorious  refrain  of 
gratitude : 

It  is  Christ  that  died,  yea  rather,  that  is  risen  again,  who  is  even  at 
the  right  hand  of  God,  who  also  maketh  intercession  for  us. 

THE  LOVE  OF  THE  SAVIOR 

What  a  wonderful  thing  it  is  to  have  a  mediator,  the  Lord  Jesus, 
who  intercedes  for  his  brethren. 
And  Paul  continues: 

Who  shall  separate  us  from  the  love  of  Christ?  Shall  tribulation,  or 
distress,  or  persecution,  or  famine  or  nakedness,  or  peril,  or  sword? 

*  *  *  * 

Nay,  in  all  these  things  we  are  more  than  conquerors  through  him  that 
loved  us. 

For  I  am  persuaded,  that  neither  death,  nor  life,  nor  angels,  nor 
principalities,  nor  powers,  nor  things  present,  nor  things  to  come, 

Nor  height,  nor  depth,  nor  any  other  creature,  shall  be  able  to  separate 
us  from  the  love  of  God,  which  is  in  Christ  our  Lord.  (Romans  8:34-39). 

For  I  reckon  that  the  sufferings  of  this  present  time  are  not  worthy  to 
be  compared  with  the  glory  which  shall  be  revealed  in  us.  (Romans  8:18). 

Ere  long  the  skies  will  rend  and  Jesus  Christ  shall  descend  in  glory 
with  all  his  holy  angels.  Then  will  begin  the  long  foretold  Millennium,  for 
which  women  have  wept  and  for  which  men  have  prayed.  Christ  shall 
reign  upon  the  earth  in  glory  and  in  power  from  the  rivers  to  the  end  of 
the  earth.  In  that  glorious  Millennium  we  shall  have  good  government, 
freedom  from  corruption;  we  shall  rejoice  in  the  divine  reign  of  Him 
who  is  Prince  of  Peace  and  King  of  Kings. 

When  He  comes 

He  will  rule  the  world  with  truth  and  grace, 
And  make  the  nations  prove 
The  glories  of  His  righteousness 
And  wonders  of  His  love. 

Even  so,  blessed  Lord  Jesus,  come  quickly.  Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  am  delighted,  my  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  to  greet  you 
upon  this  occasion,  and  to  feel  the  impressions  of  the  holy  Spirit  of  God 
that  have  been  manifest  all  through  this  great  Conference.  It  is  always 
an  inspiration  to  see  the  large  congregations  of  the  Church  gathered 
together  as  we  see  them  during  the  periods  of  our  Annual  and  Semi- 
Annual  Conferences — people  who  have  come  from  great  distances,  people 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  6  Third  Day 

who  have  in  their  hearts  the  testimony  of  Jesus,  who  are  led  to  do  the 
things  they  know  are  right,  and  who  desire  to  walk  in  the  path  of  God. 

EVIDENCES  OF  A  MARVELOUS  WORK  IN  THE  EARTH 

This  is  an  evidence  of  the  marvelous  work  and  wonder  that  our 
Eternal  Father  is  performing  in  the  earth.  He  has  gathered  out  from 
among  the  nations  the  progenitors  of  those  who  are  here  in  the  Church 
at  the  present  time ;  and  those  who  are  here  have  accomplished  the  things 
that  He  intended.  But  the  power  of  the  adversary  has  been  so  violent 
that  it  has  curtailed  free  agency  among  the  children  of  men.  I  say  unto 
you,  my  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  free  agency  of  men  is  limited ; 
there  are  not  many  peoples  in  the  earth  today  who  enjoy  such  freedom 
as  can  be  enjoyed  in  a  great  democracy  like  this.  Our  Eternal  Father  has 
established  this  country  for  the  work  that  He  has  designated  to  take 
place  in  these  latter  days. 

MESSAGE  TO  BE  TAKEN  FROM  PRIESTHOOD  MEETINGS 

When  I  looked  upon  the  congregation  of  men  last  night  in  the 
Priesthood  meeting  I  was  deeply  impressed.  I  saw  in  the  faces  of  those 
men  a  firm  determination,  a  resolution  to  carry  out  the  plan  of  God.  It 
will  be  but  a  few  hours  before  they  go  back  into  their  fields  of  labor  in 
all  the  Stakes  of  Zion,  and  there  they  will  teach  the  Gospel  to  the  children 
of  men,  and  testify  to  those  who  belong  to  the  Church  that  this  was  and 
is  the  Church  of  Christ  our  Lord.  They  will  admonish  them  that  the 
time  has  come  for  men  to  measure  up.  They  will  encourage  them  to 
gather  out  from  among  the  communities  where  they  live  those  who  might 
receive  the  truth.  How  many  of  us  know  our  neighbors  How  many  of 
us  think  about  the  men  or  the  women  who  may  be  living  near  us,  who  are 
not  members  of  the  Church?  I  take  it  that  this  great  body  of  Priesthood 
is  concerned  about  these,  our  brothers  and  sisters,  and  that  their  desire 
is  to  carry  to  them  the  Gospel  message. 

OUR  DUTY  TO  THOSE  WHO  COME  HERE  TO  LIVE 

There  are  many  people  who  come  into  the  Stakes  of  Zion  who  do 
not  really  know  why  they  come  here,  take  up  their  abode  and  live  among 
us.  But  we  may  well  believe  that  they  have  been  directed  here  for  the 
purpose  of  baptism,  for  the  purpose  of  hearing  the  voice  of  their  Redeem- 
er. We  pray  constantly  for  our  missionaries  who  go  abroad,  that  they 
may  search  out  the  honest  in  heart,  but  we  little  think  about  those  in  our 
midst  who  have  been  moved  upon  by  the  spirit  and  power  of  God  to  come 
into  this  land  where  they  may  receive  the  blessings  that  are  theirs  by 
right.  For  in  the  great  plan  of  our  Eternal  Father,  established  before  the 
foundations  of  this  earth  were  laid,  all  men  who  would  believe,  all  who 
would  be  valiant  for  the  testimony  of  Jesus,  were  given  the  opportunity 
to  hear  the  truth.  It  was  ordained  that  they  should  be  made  partakers 
of  these  great  blessings- — the  blessings  that  were  to  be  theirs  here  and 
in  eternity.  Of  such  are  the  congregations  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
composed. 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


121 


But  there  are  thousands  of  men  yet  to  hear  the  Gospel,  there  are 
thousands  of  women  who  might  be  turned  into  the  channels  of  real 
service  for  which  there  is  such  an  abundance  of  opportunity,  under 
the  leadership  of  the  women's  organizations  of  the  Church.  There  is 
a  great  work  for  us  to  do,  and  there  is  no  time  for  us  to  wait,  for  this 
is  the  work  of  God,  this  is  the  great  day  which  our  Eternal  Father  de- 
clared through  His  holy  prophets,  centuries  ago,  He  would  establish  in 
the  last  days.  This  Church  is  never  more  to  be  thrown  down  or  given 
to  another  people.  This  is  the  day  of  salvation.  We  invite  the  children 
of  men  everywhere  to  investigate  the  doctrines  we  believe.  I  invite  my 
friends  who  may  be  listening  in  to  take  time  to  read  the  doctrines  of  the 
Church,  to  read  the  things  that  the  Lord  has  revealed,  and  become 
acquainted  with  them.  Let  me  repeat  that  there  are  many  fine  men  and 
women  in  this  world,  many  of  whom  live  within  our  gates,  who  might  be- 
come members  of  the  Church,  if  they  could  be  made  to  see  the  great  plan 
of  our  Redeemer.  It  is  our  responsibility  and  privilege  to  carry  this 
message  to  them. 

A  TESTIMONY  OF  THE  TRUTH 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  God. 
There  is  no  doubt  in  my  mind  that  the  Lord  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  Savior  of  the  world,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  the  prophet  whom  the 
Lord  selected  before  the  foundations  of  this  earth  were  laid,  to  bring 
about  His  righteous  purposes  in  your  day  and  mine.  That  great  plan  of 
God  shall  continue  as  long  as  the  earth  shall  stand.  And  it  will  be  carried 
to  the  children  of  men  through  the  guiding  leadership  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

A  great  miracle  has  taken  place  among  us.  Our  Father's  prophet, 
our  leader,  the  man  that  we  love,  has  been  partially  restored  to  health 
and  is  able  to  be  here  and  speak  with  power  and  influence.  May  we 
sustain  him,  may  we  sustain  each  other,  sustain  the  things  the  Lord  has 
revealed  to  us,  that  His  work  may  become  stronger,  and  that  His  plans 
may  be  carried  out  as  He  would  desire  them  to  be,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang,  "Lead  Kindly  Light,"  by  Jenkins.  The 
soloist  was  Elder  Harold  H.  Bennett. 

ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  You  see  here  on  the  pulpit  a  movable 
platform  that  can  be  raised  up  and  let  down  to  suit  the  speaker.  It  is  not 
a  Republican  platform;  it  is  not  a  Democratic  platform;  (Laughter) 
it  is  a  Church  platform  and  I  can  hardly  reach  up  to  it.  (Laughter) 

AN  INSPIRING  CONFERENCE 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  that  it  is  a  high  honor  to  be  asked  to 
stand  here  and  address  this  wonderful  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints. 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  b  Third  Day 

This  is  a  marvelous  attendance,  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder,  to 
have  a  building  here  that  will  accommodate  between  8000  and  9000 
people.  "That  was  the  attendance  last  night  at  the  General  Priesthood 
meeting.  It  was  a  very  inspirational  and  instructive  meeting  as  were  all 
the  meetings  of  the  Conference.  And  haven't  we  had  a  wonderful  day 
today?  Think  of  the  beautiful  music  that  is  furnished  by  the  Tabernacle 
Qioir.  Their  voices  go  out  to  all  the  country  around,  to  all  the  world, 
as  it  were,  and  yet  they  remain  with  us.  The  Choir  is  entitled  to  great 
credit  for  the  wonderful  work  it  is  doing. 

I  am  sure,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  you  feel  as  I  do,  that  we 
are  very  happy  indeed  to  have  the  President  of  the  Church,  who  has  been 
ill,  with  us  on  this  occasion  and  at  this  Conference.  It  is  fitting  that  he 
should  be  here,  and  we  could  not  be  fully  satisfied  without  him.  But  he 
is  here.  He  is  looking  pretty  well  and  he  feels  well.  I  heard  him  say 
that  he  is  feeling  fine. 

Now  there  is  hardly  anything  lacking,  but  if  there  is  one  thing 
above  another  that  I  would  like  it  would  be  the  gift  of  eloquence  to 
express  myself  before  this  congregation.  You  know  some  of  the  brethren 
of  the  Twelve,  if  not  all  of  them,  except  myself,  have  the  gift  of  elo- 
quence ;  and  it  helps  to  stir  up  the  congregation,  and  it  is  restful  to  have 
a  little  eloquence  punctuate  one's  remarks  when  speaking. 

Let  me  tell  you  at  this  point  that  I  forgot  to  look  at  the  time  when 
I  came  to  the  pulpit  so  I  shall  ask  President  Clark,  when  I  have  talked 
about  twenty  minutes,  to  let  me  know  without  your  knowing  it.  (Laugh- 
ter) 

THE  GOSPEL  FURNISHES  TEXTS 

Permit  me  to  say  this :  There  is  a  wealth  of  material  in  the  standard 
Church  works  sufficient  to  furnish  texts  for  our  brethren  who  speak 
from  the  pulpit,  and  also  the  sisters  when  they  speak.  I  think  we  should 
be  pretty  careful  in  our  religious  gatherings  to  preach  the  Gospel.  That's 
the  important  thing.  Lectures,  in  many  instances,  are  very  fine  aids 
in  their  place,  and  there  is  a  place  for  them — particularly  scientific 
lectures  and  historical  talks.  The  Lord  has  intimated  that  we  ought 
to  read  good  books  and  become  acquainted  with  the  things  of  the  world, 
but  in  our  special  gatherings  of  the  Saints  we  ought  to  be  sure  to  preach 
the  Gospel.  It  is  an  elaborate  subject,  it  is  very  comprehensive.  The 
Gospel  covers  a  wide  range,  and  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  are  most 
important,  and  therefore  I  am  to  tell  you  right  now  that  I  would  like 
to  say  a  few  words  upon  two  great  movements  in  the  Church. 

TEMPLE  WORK  FOR  THE  DEAD 

One  is  the  missionary  movement  which  was  mentioned  by  Brother 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith  in  his  talk.  That  is  one  of  the  subjects  that  I 
wanted  to  bring  before  you,  and  the  other  subject  is  the  work  for  the 
dead.    These  are  two  highly  important  subjects,  because  we  are  under 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


123 


injunction  of  the  Lord  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to  look  after 
the  matter  pertaining  to  the  dead.  The  living  can  take  care  of  themselves 
if  they  will,  the  opportunity  is  before  them.  We  have  the  temple  and 
they  can  go  into  it  and  get  their  endowments,  their  blessings  and  sealings 
but  the  dead  cannot  do  that.  I  am  speaking  now  of  our  ancestors  in  the 
spirit  world,  because  every  man  here  has  a  line  of  ancestors  behind  him, 
and  every  woman  here  has  a  line  of  ancestors  and  it  is  our  business 
to  look  up  our  ancestors  and  get  what  information  we  can. 

Now  upon  my  mother's  side  we  have  done  a  very  good  work  because 
we  have  had  the  names  to  do  it,  but  on  my  father's  side  we  have  been 
stopped  because  of  a  break  in  the  line  somewhere,  and  we  have  not  until 
lately  been  able  to  get  back  very  far.  The  names  we  did  get  we  have 
done  the  work  for  and  that  is  very  fortunate.  I  hope  the  Lord  will  open 
up  the  way  and  give  us  some  more  names.  I  would  say  to  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  do  not  forget  your  dead,  because  you  owe  them  this 
much  effort  to  do  something  for  them.  They  lived  in  a  day  when  the 
Gospel  was  not  upon  the  earth ;  they  certainly  have  a  claim  upon  us  and 
I  am  prompted  to  say  that  if  we  refuse  to  recognize  our  obligation  to  do 
the  work  for  our  dead  the  Lord  will  reject  us  as  a  Church,  because  you 
know  that  souls  are  very  precious  unto  him  and  we  cannot  afford  to 
neglect  this  matter. 

With  some  people  it  is  difficult  to  get  to  the  temple  because  they  live 
some  distance  away,  but  they  should  make  an  extra  effort  to  do  so,  and 
some  people  living  very  near  to  the  temple  have  not  done  their  work  for 
the  dead,  and  yet  they  have  means  but  they  have  overlooked  it.  We 
cannot  afford  to  go  to  sleep  over  this  matter. 

Perhaps  my  time  is  up,  but  I  have  not  heard  from  President  Clark 
yet.  (Laughter)  A  person  sometimes  gets  more  interested  in  his  own 
talk  than  does  the  congregation.  (Laughter)  So  we  have  to  ask  the  man 
in  charge  to  notify  us  when  to  stop.  I  am  rather  glad  it  is  that  way 
because  if  we  did  not  feel  an  interest  in  what  we  were  saying  ourselves, 
who  would  feel  an  interest  in  it?  (Laughter) 

MISSIONARY  PREPARATION 

I  am  very  much  interested  in  the  missionary  work  that  has  been 
going  on  in  our  Church  for  a  hundred  years.  It  is  brought  down  to  a 
fine  point  because  one  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  Brother  David 
O.  McKay,  has  a  hand  in  it.  A  committee  looks  after  the  groups  of 
missionaries  who  come  up  to  Zion  for  a  little  training;  they  have  to 
have  a  little  teaching  before  they  can  go  out  and  preach  the  Gospel.  They 
ought  to  have  a  good  deal,  but  they  will  get  some  experience  in  the  mission 
field.  It  is  wonderful  what  the  Lord  can  do  with  these  young  men  who 
are  going  out;  and  mark  you,  these  young  men  who  are  going  out  as 
missionaries  could  not  do  very  effective  work  without  divine  authority, 
so  they  come  up  here  and  get  it.  They  go  to  the  Temple  and  get  the 
Temple  blessings,  and  they  go  into  the  study  room  and  listen  to  lectures 
on  the  Gospel,  after  which  the  hands  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


Apostles  and  First  Council  of  Seventy  are  laid  on  their  heads  conferring 
the  authority  to  preach  the  Gospel.  The  result  is  that  there  are  hundreds 
of  thousands  of  people  in  the  spirit  world  who  benefit  from  the  work 
of  these  young  men. 


I  think  I  might  have  time  to  read  just  a -stanza  or  two  in  relation 
to  this  subject.  The  Lord  said  in  Section  18  (I  have  heard  President 
Grant  quote  this  section — it  is  a  very  important  matter) : 

Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of  God ; 

For,  behold,  the  Lord  your  Redeemer  suffered  death  in  the  flesh ; 
wherefore  He  suffered  the  pain  of  all  men,  that  all  men  might  repent  and 
come  unto  Him. 

And  He  hath  risen  again  from  the  dead,  that  He  might  bring  all  men 
unto  Him,  on  condition  of  repentance. 

And  how  great  is  his  joy  in  that  soul  that  repenteth!_ 
Wherefore,  you  are  called  to  cry  repentance  unto  this  people. 
And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your  days  in  crying  repentance 
unto  this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto  Me,  how  great  shall 
be  your  joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  our  Father! 


When  I  was  at  law  school,  I  was  made  one  of  the  editors  of  the 
Law  Review.  The  boys  who  were  working  on  the  Review  came  to  call 
me  "Simon  Legree — the  slave-driver."  It  looks  as  if  I  were  building  a 
reputation  here  in  the  Church  along  the  same  lines. 


There  is  much  concern  today  about  the  cause  of  liberty  in  the  world. 
People  are  anxiously  asking,  "What  is  going  to  be  the  outcome  of  this 
war,  and  what  will  happen  to  the  world  if  the  dictators  win?"  I  do  not 
know  the  answers  to  these  questions.  It  is  not  necessary  that  I  should 
know,  nor  that  you  should  know. 


It  is  important,  however,  that  we  do  not  permit  ourselves  to  be 
unduly  distracted  when  the  hidden  purposes  of  events  and  their  end  are 
not  immediately  clear  to  our  perception.  The  lifetime  of  an  individual  is 
but  a  short  span  when  reckoned  against  the  stretch  of  history.  What- 
ever the  present  may  forebode,  or  the  immediate  future  may  bring  we 
shall  be  better  able  to  maintain  our  composure  if  we  are  fortified  by  an 
abiding  "faith  and  confidence  in  God  and  in  the  triumph  of  His  work" 
if,  in  the  phrase  of  Bancroft  we  can  say,  "Eternal  wisdom  marshals  the 
great  procession  of  the  nations,  working  in  patient  continuity  through 


THE  WORTH  OF  SOULS  IS  GREAT 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 


Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


GOD'S  PLANS  WILL  TRIUMPH 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


125 


the  ages,  never  halting  and  never  abrupt,  encompassing  all  events  in  its 
oversight,  and  ever  effecting  its  will  .  .  .  .  " 

man's  power  fades 

Alexander  conquered  the  world  but  the  great  general  was  scarcely 
dead  when  his  vast  empire  crumbled  and  soon  was  no  more.  Cromwell 
made  himself  a  mighty  ruler  but  his  power  passed  away  with  him.  Na- 
poleon startled  the  world  by  the  brilliancy  of  his  achievements,  but  he 
was  so  unfortunate  as  to  live  to  see  the  mighty  empire  he  had  welded 
fall  apart  before  his  eyes. 

Those  who  now  are  turning  the  world  upside  down  will  also  die. 
The  mischiefs  they  have  wrought  will  then,  if  not  sooner,  by  degrees 
be  undone.  The  peoples  of  conquered  nations,  and  of  the  conquering 
nations,  too,  for  that  matter,  are  not  going  to  be  content  perpetually  to 
submit  to  the  stifling  oppression  under  which  they  now  suffer  nor  to  the 
smothering  of  their  instincts  of  freedom.  It  has  always  been  the  case 
that  when  tyranny  becomes  oppressive  enough  people  revolt  against  it  and 
shake  it  off. 

CALMNESS  COMMENDED 

But  all  this  does  not  mean  that  nations  or  peoples  should  resign 
themselves  to  the  fate  of  being  subdued.  The  struggle  back  out  of  the 
thraldom  of  tyranny  is  always  waged  through  blood  and  sacrifice  and 
heart-breaking  rigors  and  disciplines.  Bitter  suffering  must  be  endured 
before  the  will  is  steeled  to  the  endeavor. 

It  is  infinitely  wiser  and  safer  to  preserve  the  good  one  has  than  to 
suffer  its  annihilation  and  then  have  to  go  over  the  toilsome,  grueling 
and  thorny  way  of  getting  it  back  again.  But  the  process  of  preservation 
is  not  facilitated  by  hysteria.  The  hysterical  mind  does  not  conceive  ra- 
tionally, nor  plan  coherently  nor  execute  effectively.  Let  us  try  in  these 
difficult  times  to  sift  the  truth  out  of  the  welter  of  confusion,  to  view 
it  calmly  and  to  decide  with  sobriety. 

LIBERTY  A  PRINCIPLE  OF  LIFE 

Of  this  we  can  be  sure:  Liberty  is  a  thing  of  the  spirit.  A  man 
must  nourish  it  and  cherish  it  in  his  heart  as  he  does  love  for  his  wife 
and  children.  Except  for  its  manifestation  as  a  quality  in  human  life  it 
has  no  existence.  Governments  cannot  confer  it;  they  can  only  protect 
the  individual  in  the  enjoyment  of  it.  Navies  and  armies  cannot  bestow 
it;  they  can  only  defend  its  exercise.  No  people  can  possess  it  unless 
they  make  themselves  worthy  of  it. 

The  lessons  of  Europe  are  fruitful  for  us  if  we  will  but  read  them. 
We  are  amazed  at  the  ease  with  which  some  heretofore  great  nations 
have  been  subdued.  The  superficial  explanation  is  lack  of  proper  mili- 
tary armament.  The  true  reason  lies  deeper  and  is  the  cause  for  the 
lack  of  preparation. 

Whether  their  undoing  came  from  disloyalty,  treachery,  sedition, 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  6  Third  Dag 

resulting  in  betrayal,  or  whether  it  came  from  taking  into  their  family 
bosoms  designing  aliens  and  falling  prey  to  their  seductive  propaganda, 
or  from  the  indolence  and  love  of  ease,  and  craving  for  the  flesh  pots 
which  made  them  unwilling  to  subject  themselves  to  the  necessary  ex- 
ertion and  discipline  and  self-denial  to  protect  their  heritage  does  not 
much  matter  as  it  all  comes  to  the  same  end  anyway. 

The  question  forced  upon  us  is,  why  should  the  people  of  a  great 
nation  become  disloyal  and  seditious,  why  should  they  be  beguiled  by 
seductive  portrayal  of  alien  ideologies,  why  so  flabby  and  soft  and  in- 
dolent and  comfort-loving  as  to  be  unequal  to  the  exertion  of  protecting 
their  birthright  ? 

CAUSES  OF  DOWNFALL  OF  NATIONS 

A  building  does  not  crash  when  the  first  termite  begins  to  bore  into 
its  supporting  beams.  But  when  these  have  been  allowed  to  multiply  and 
continue  their  burrowing  and  tunneling  and  eating  there  comes  a  day 
when  the  fiber  of  the  wood  is  so  thoroughly  destroyed  that  under  the 
impact  of  some  shock  or  addition  of  weight  the  support  gives  way  and 
the  structure  comes  tumbling  down.  It  would  be  absurd  to  say  that  the 
new  weight  or  the  shock  caused  the  structure  to  fall.  We  sometimes  are 
bewildered  at  the  sudden  collapse  of  a  man's  character  which  theretofore 
had  been  rated  high.  It  will  generally  be  found  that  the  degenerating 
process  had  been  working  in  him  a  long  time  before  the  crash  came. 

Strong  nations,  commanding  great  resources,  do  not  fall  in  the  days 
of  their  strength  before  an  invading  enemy.  They  first  disintegrate  from 
within.  When  their  vital  internal  structure  has  been  eaten  away  then  the 
hollow  shell  collapses  before  the  first  onslaught  of  a  virile  foe. 

What  we  have  been  witnessing  in  Europe  is  not  so  much  the  con- 
quering might  of  an  organized  power,  great  as  that  is,  as  the  mere  push- 
ing over,  with  some  minor  and  notable  exceptions,  of  the  hollow  frame- 
works of  governments  whose  sustaining  spiritual  integrity  had  already 
gone  into  decay. 

CONDITIONS  IN  AMERICA 

Now  what  of  ourselves  ?  We  know  that  we  harbor  here  large  num- 
bers, alien  as  well  as  native  born,  who  openly  advocate  the  superiority  of 
alien  principles  of  government  over  our  own.  Others  there  are  who 
devote  themselves  to  coddling  the  sowers  of  seeds  of  sedition  and  dis- 
loyalty. And  with  a  discouraging  universality  we  see  the  evidences  of 
calculating  self-interest,  greed,  indifference — a  materialistic,  grabbing, 
senseless  scramble  for  the  things  which  it  is  so  mistakenly  supposed  will 
give  a  sense  of  security  or  satisfy  the  restlessness  that  is  our  very  plague. 

We  are  saying  that  we  face  a  great  crisis,  that  the  very  existence  of 
our  nation  is  at  stake.  And  yet  one  class  of  people  is  being  told  and  is 
telling  itself  that  it  will  not  give  up  one  whit  of  certain  alleged  gains  it 
has  made.  It  is  willing  to  prepare  for  the  emergency  provided  that  it  is 
not  called  upon  to  sacrifice  anything.  Another  class  is  demanding  as- 
surance against  loss,  and  still  another  as  a  matter  of  self  interest  and 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


127 


expediency  is  willing  to  let  vital  things  wait.  By  sections  and  communi- 
ties we  are  joining  in  the  mad  scramble.  I  read  that  the  defense  com- 
mission is  being  harassed  and  hampered  by  the  clamors  of  localities, 
chambers  of  commerce,  pressure  groups,  and  politicians  for  the  location 
of  this  or  that  industry  in  this  or  that  place  without  regard  for  military 
requirement  or  efficiency  of  the  whole  program.  We  want  to  save  our 
country  if  we  can  conveniently,  but  if  it  goes  down  we  want  to  be  able 
to  say  that  our  congressman  got  us  a  liberal  part  of  the  public  funds  and 
be  sure  that  we  hand  ourselves  over  to  the  conquerer  with  plenty  of  pub- 
lic works  on  hand  and  our  local  vanity  satisfied. 

Concerted  action  is  required  but  jealousies  and  envy  divide  us.  Our 
appraisals  of  value  are  inconstant  and  bewilderingly  shifting.  While  in 
truth  the  interests  of  all  classes  are  inseparably  bound  up  together  we 
have  driven  great  wedges  separating  the  industrialists  from  the  laborers, 
and  the  agriculturists  from  both  and  the  consumer  from  all  the  others. 
For  a  long  time  we  have  been  stigmatizing  large  industries  and  denounc- 
ing them  as  baleful.  Now  we  are  frantically  urging  them  to  grow  bigger 
and  are  offering  capital  for  that  purpose.  What  we  have  heedlessly  de- 
cried as  evils  we  now  recognize  as  being  our  only  hope  for  a  speedy  and 
large  armament.  One  of  our  largest  industrialists  was  within  the  year 
denounced  as  a  national  menace.  Now  we  are  dependent  upon  him  in  an 
inordinate  degree  to  make  us  the  defensive  implements  we  need,  all  of 
which  shows  the  folly  of  our  periodic  surges  and  revulsions  of  feeling 
toward  the  integrated  elements  of  our  nation. 

SPIRITUAL  STRENGTH  NEEDED 

This  is  all  contrary  to  the  spirit  of  universal  brotherhood  taught  by 
the  Savior  of  the  world,  and  is  our  most  alarming  portent  of  danger,  far 
more  alarming  than  the  power  of  any  foreign  foe.  In  recent  years  we 
have  heard  much  over  our  country  about  economic  security  and  about 
various  notions  for  material  betterment.  Greater  ease,  more  comfort, 
less  toil  have  been  flashed  before  us  as  symbolizing  the  highest  ideals 
of  human  attainment.  But  we  have  heard  almost  nothing  about  spiritual 
strengthening,  tightening  of  moral  disciplines,  subordination  of  person- 
al desires  or  the  development  of  the  wholesome  spirit  of  give  and  take 
which  make  for  a  greater  national  unity  and  a  more  healthy  and  trustful 
and  confidence-begetting  relationship.  Here  is  a  task  for  the  Church. 

I  have  noted  with  keen  interest  for  a  number  of  years  now  that 
from  this  pulpit  in  these  Conferences,  with  growing  emphasis  there  have 
been  voiced  persistent  and  reiterated  pleas  for  a  greater  devotion  to  and 
cultivation  of  the  spiritual  values  of  life  which  ought  to  flow  from  our 
belief  in  and  acceptance  of  the  divine  mission  of  the  Savior  of  the  world. 
The  people  have  been  begged  to  discipline  themselves  to  the  virtues  of 
kindliness,  unselfishness,  self-denial,  humility,  reverence  and  justice ; 
to  be  abstemious,  industrious,  thrifty  and  self-reliant.  Apparently 
thoughtful  men  among  the  laity  are  being  shocked  by  world  events  into 
a  realization  of  the  perils  which  lurk  in  neglect  of  these  bulwarks  of 
strength. 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  Octobet  6  Third  Dag 

About  two  years  ago  some  observant  British  leaders  sent  out  the 
warning  to  the  people  of  the  realm  that  the  great  issue  which  divides  the 
world  is  at  bottom  a  spiritual  conflict  in  which  good  and  evil  spirits  are 
working  through  mankind.  "When  the  evil  spirits  conquer,"  said  they, 
"the  collapse  of  private  and  public  morals  sets  in,  the  spirit  of  discipline 
and  sacrifice  dies,"  and  they  warned  that  Britain  must  make  its  choice 
between  spiritual  restoration  and  annihilation.  How  prophetic  those 
words  were  stands  now  revealed.  It  might  have  been  better  for  England 
if  she  had  given  earlier  heed  to  them. 

winston  churchill's  notable  words 

I  am  sure  every  listener  must  have  thrilled  to  the  appeal  of  Winston 
Churchill  when  upon  his  assumption  of  the  premiership  he  warned  his 
countrymen  that  he  could  promise  them  nothing  but  blood  and  tears  and 
toil  and  sweat.  That  was,  at  the  time  of  his  speaking,  a  new  note  in  the 
utterance  of  a  modern  public  man,  strange  to  our  ears.  And  how  magnif- 
icently Britons  responded  to  the  rallying  call  of  their  great  leader  who 
dared  to  tell  them  the  naked  unpleasant  truth  ! 

INDOLENCE  SAPPING  STRENGTH  OF  THE  NATION 

I  wish  every  man  and  woman  in  America  might  read  and  ponder 
an  article  by  Dr.  Alexis  Carrel  appearing  in  the  September  issue  of  the 
Reader's  Digest.  "Amusement"  said  he  "has  been  our  national  cry;  'a 
good  time'  our  chief  concern.  The  perfect  life,  as  viewed  by  the  average 
youth  or  adult  is  a  round  of  ease  or  entertainment,  of  motion  pictures, 
radio  programs,  parties,  alcoholic  and  sexual  excesses. 

"This  indolent  and  undisciplined  way  of  life  has  sapped  our  indi- 
vidual vigor,  imperiled  our  democratic  form  of  government.  Our  race 
pitifully  needs  new  supplies  of  discipline,  morality  and  intelligence. 
Strange  to  say  democracies  have  made  no  consistent  effort  to  inculcate 
these  qualities  in  their  citizens.  Although  vast  social  betterment  schemes 
have  been  projected,  we  have  forgotten  that  these  ultimately  depend  for 
their  vitality  upon  the  individual  citizen.  'You  cannot  carve  rotten  wood,' 
says  the  Chinese  proverb.  Nor  can  you  carve  decayed  character  into  the 
durable  underpinnings  of  a  better  race." 

Forty  men  of  prominence  recently  warned  the  people  of  America 
that  "The  democratic  way  of  life,  must  be  based  ultimately  on  the  reli- 
gious principle  of  the  Fatherhood  of  God,  and  the  worth  and  dignity  of 
man  when  regarded  as  a  child  of  God.  It  must  uncompromisingly  op- 
pose any  effort  at  the  deification  of  the  State  or  the  suppression  of  in- 
dividual liberty  and  sense  of  moral  responsibility." 

A  FORCE  FIGHTING  AGAINST  GOD 

So  long  as  armed  aggression  is  rampant  in  the  world  proceeding 
upon  the  principle  that  the  only  deterrent  to  the  gratification  of  every 
rapacious  desire  is  the  limit  of  brute  force,  peaceably  inclined  peoples 
must  prepare  themselves  to  repel  that  force.   But,  cautions  the  warning 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


129 


manifesto,  unless  a  spiritual  and  moral  resuscitation  is  worked  and  res- 
pect for  religious  values  built  up  we  shall  arm  in  vain. 

We  have  used  our  freedom  to  renounce  all  discipline,  and  in  the 
marvelous  achievements  of  this  industrial  and  scientific  age  we  have 
grown  arrogant  and  have  discarded  our  ancient  faith.  The  iconoclasts 
have  been  at  work. — Those  egotists  who  cannot  rest  happy  so  long  as 
an  unsullied  name,  eclipsing  their  own,  Is  allowed  to  stand  untarnished, 
have  been  busy  with  their  smear  pots.  They  are  called  by  the  very  ugly 
but  very  appropriate  name  de-bunkers.  Nothing  so  much  needs  de-bunk- 
ing as  they  themselves.  Because  they  cannot  dissect  God  and  examine 
His  parts  they  have  denied  that  He  is;  they  have  scoffed  at  the  divinity 
of  Jesus  and  because  His  benignity  and  purity  and  unselfishness  and  all- 
embracing  compassion  so  far  transcend  their  cynical  powers  of  com- 
prehension, they  have  characterized  Him  a  pretender  and  notoriety-seek- 
ing rabble  rouser.  The  Ten  Commandments  are  ridiculed  as  a  defense- 
less and  untrue  imposition  upon  a  primitive,  uncultured  and  migrant 
people.  Washington  and  Lincoln  and  the  other  great  characters  of  his- 
tory they  have  with  profane  hands  dragged  down  from  their  high  pedes- 
tals and  have  dissected  bit  by  bit,  searched  out  and  with  malicious  glee 
thrown  upon  the  screen  the  distorted  and  magnified  image  of  their  every 
foible  and  blemish.  The  founders  of  our  government,  the  f ramers  of  our 
Constitution  are  converted  into  self-seeking  aristocrats  bent  only  on  pre- 
serving their  advantages  of  station,  while  that  great  instrument  itself  is 
made  the  embodiment  of  palpably  absurd  and  now  outmoded  eighteenth 
century  philosophy.  They  are  determined  that  nothing  shall  remain 
sacred  or  be  revered.  They  have  suceeded  only  too  well.  To  maintain  it- 
self strong  in  the  present  a  people  must  be  sustained  by  the  conscious- 
ness of  a  noble  past  and  the  hope  of  a  glorious  future.  Too  much  of  the 
nobility  of  the  past  and  the  hope  for  the  future  has  gone  into  eclipse. 

PRINCIPLES  THAT  LEAD  DOWNWARD 

The  gifts  of  this  industrial  age  are  mechanisms,  gadgets,  ease,  lux- 
ury, diversions.  These  we  have  set  up  as  principles  by  which  we  live  in 
the  place  of  faith  in  the  nobility  of  man,  reverence  for  his  Maker  and  the 
discipline  of  our  bodies,  minds  and  spirits  to  the  divine  law.  Our  sub- 
stituted principles  we  find  not  to  be  principles  at  all  but  merely  incident- 
als. Put  to  the  test  of  realism  they  come  tumbling  down  about  us  and  men 
stand  bewildered  by  their  own  impotence  and  futility.  They  have  lost  the 
sustaining  power  of  great  convictions.  As  for  our  government  they  are 
not  convinced  it  is  better  than  some  others ;  they  do  not  really  believe  in 
our  freedom,  nor  that  it  is  in  peril  both  from  within  and  without,  nor 
that  its  loss  would  be  calamitous.  They  are  not  sure  why  they  live  in  the 
earth  at  all,  what  life's  purpose  is  nor  what  it  is  they  want  to  do. 

TEACHING  THE  TRUTH  NOT  AN  EASY  TASK 

There  must  be  a  new  cementing  of  shattered  convictions,  a  re-estab- 
lishment of  wavering  faith,  a  calling  back  to  basic  principles.  This  again 


130  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  6  Third  Day 

is  a  task  for  the  Church.  It  is  a  work  for  you  Presidents  of  Stakes,  and 
Bishops  of  Wards  and  other  leaders.  In  its  fulfilment  you  will  have  large 
need  for  moral  courage  because  your  leadership  will  involve  your  telling 
people  unpleasant  truths,  things  they  would  rather  not  hear.  It  will  re- 
quire you  to  lead  them  in  hard  ways. 

As  I  read  the  history  of  the  ancient  prophets  they  were  more  often 
than  not  the  bearers  of  unpleasant  messages.  It  fell  to  them  to  tell  kings, 
judges,  rulers  and  people  that  the  courses  they  were  following  portend- 
ed disaster  and  to  admonish  them  against  persistence  in  such  courses.  It 
was  not  an  easy  nor  an  inviting  labor.  It  did  not  make  them  popular,  but 
frequently  jeopardized  their  lives  and  drove  them  into  hiding. 

Jesus  himself  passed  through  the  same  experience.  The  next  day  af- 
ter He  had  miraculously  fed  the  multitude  the  crowds  sought  Him  on  the 
opposite  side  of  the  lake  whither  He  had  gone  in  the  night  time.  As  they 
pressed  upon  Him  He  said  to  them,  "Ye  seek  me,  not  because  ye  saw  the 
miracles,  but  because  ye  did  eat  of  the  loaves  and  were  filled."  Then  He 
proceeded  to  unfold  His  doctrine  which  imposed  high  requirements  up- 
on any  who  would  be  His  followers,  stressing  the  preeminence  of  spir- 
itual values  over  material  satisfactions. 

"It  is,"  said  He,  "the  spirit  that  quickeneth ;  the  flesh  prof iteth 
nothing ;  the  words  that  I  speak  unto  you,  they  are  spirit,  and  they  are 
life."  His  listeners  complained  that  His  sayings  were  hard,  and  began 
melting  away.  Sorrowfully  and  pathetically  the  chronicler  records  :  "From 
that  time  many  of  his  disciples  went  back  and  walked  no  more  with  him." 
So  long  as  they  were  the  recipients  of  gratuitous  benefits  they  were 
eager  followers,  but  their  ardor  turned  cold  when  they  found  that  the 
price  of  discipleship  was  renunciation  and  reformation.  But  that  alone 
was  then  and  is  now  the  way  of  salvation. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  "Come  Let  Us  Anew." 
PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Partly  for  the  benefit  of  those  who  are  on  the  air,  and  who  cannot 
see  us  here,  I  wfsh  to  say  that  it  is  with  profound  gratitude  and  joy  that 
we  now  turn  the  balance  of  the  time  over  to  President  Grant. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  needless  for  me  to  tell  you  good  people  how  grateful  I  feel  that 
I  am  able  to  speak  to  you  at  the  close  of  this  Conference.  As  a  rule  I 
never  put  my  remarks  on  paper,  but  my  mind  is  not  working  as  well 
the  last  five  or  six  months  as  usual,  and  I  therefore  asked  my  secretary, 
Brother  Anderson,  to  copy  quite  a  number  of  things  that  I  know  off  by 
heart,  at  least  I  did  before  my  illness,  but  I  do  not  know  whether  I  know 
them  today  or  not,  so  I  am  going  to  read  to  you. 

QUOTATION  FROM  "THE  POWER  OF  TRUTH" 

There  is  nothing  in  all  the  world  for  which  I  am  so  grateful  as  an 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


131 


absolute  knowledge  that  we,  the  Latter-day  Saints,  have  the  true  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  I  read  from  William  George  Jordan's  book  "The 
Power  of  Truth."  There  are  eight  articles  in  the  book.  One  year  I 
distributed  7,500  copies  of  the  first  article,  autographing  them  all,  to 
friends.    The  author  says : 

Law  is  the  eternal  truth  of  nature — the  unity  that  always  produces 
identical  results  under  identical  conditions.  When  a  man  discovers  a  great 
truth  in  Nature  he  has  the  key  to  the  understanding  of  a  million  phenom- 
ena ;  when  he  grasps  a  great  truth  in  morals  he  has  in  it  the  key  to  his  spirit- 
ual re-creation.  For  the  individual,  there  is  no  such  thing  as  theoretic 
truth;  a  great  truth  that  is  not  absorbed  by  our  whole  mind  and  life,  and 
has  not  become  an  inseparable  part  of  our  living,  is  not  a  real  truth  to  us. 
If  we  know  the  truth  and  do  not  live  it,  our  life  is — a  lie.  *  *  * 

In  exact  proportion  to  the  basic  truth  they  contain  do  religions  last, 
become  permanent  and  growing,  and  satisfy  and  inspire  the  hearts  of  men. 
Mushrooms  of  error  have  a  quick  growth,  but  they  exhaust  their  vitality 
and  die;  but  truth  still  lives. 

The  man  who  makes  the  acquisition  of  wealth  the  goal  and  ultimatum 
of  his  life,  seeing  it  as  an  end  rather  than  a  means  to  an  end,  is  not  true. 
Why  does  the  world  usually  make  wealth  the  criterion  of  success,  and  riches 
the  synonym  of  attainment?  Real  success  in  life  means  the  individual's 
conquest  of  himself ;  it  means  "how  he  has  bettered  himself,"  not  "how 
has  he  bettered  his  fortune?"  The  great  question  of  life  is  not  "What  have 
I?"  but  "What  am  I?"  *  *  * 

Truth  is  the  sun  of  morality,  and,  like  that  lesser  sun  in  the  heavens,  we 
can  walk  by  its  light,  live  in  its  warmth  and  life,  even  if  we  see  but  a  small 
part  of  it,  and  receive  but  a  microscopic  fraction  of  its  rays. 

Which  of  the  great  religions  of  the  world  is  the  real,  the  final,  the  abso- 
lute truth  ? 

It  is  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  again  restored  to  the  earth 
by  personal  administration  of  our  Father  in  Heaven  and  His  Son  Jesus 
Christ. 

I  shall  now  read  what  the  Lord  says — not  what  I  say.  It  is  not  what 
Joseph  Smith  said,  but  what  the  Lord  said  to  him : 

How  long  can  rolling  waters  remain  impure?  What  power  shall  stay 
the  heavens?  As  well  might  man  stretch  forth  his  puny  arm  to  stop  the 
Missouri  river  in  its  decreed  course,  or  to  turn  it  up  stream,  as  to  hinder  the 
Almighty  from  pouring  down  knowledge  from  heaven  upon  the  heads  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints. 

FEW  ARE  CHOSEN 

Behold,  there  are  many  called,  but  few  are  chosen.  And  why  are  they 
not  chosen? 

Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon  the  things  of  this  world,  and 
aspire  to  the  honors  of  men,  that  they  do  not  learn  this  one  lesson- 
That  the  rights  of  the  priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with  the 
powers  of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven  cannot  be  controlled  nor 
handled  only  upon  the  principles  of  righteousness. 

That  they  may  be  conferred  upon  us,  it  is  true ;  but  when  we  undertake 
to  cover  our  sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride,  our  vain  ambition,  or  to  exercise 
control  or  dominion  or  compulsion  upon  the  souls  of  the  children  of  men, 
in  any  degree  of  unrighteousness,  behold,  the  heavens  withdraw  them- 
selves ;  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved ;  and  when  it  is  withdrawn,  Amen 
to  the  Priesthood  or  the  authority  of  that  man. 


132  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  6  Third  Dan 

Behold,  ere  he  is  aware  he  is  left  unto  himself  to  kick  against  the  pricks, 
to  persecute  the  saints,  and  to  fight  against  God. 

LEARN  BY  EXPERIENCE 

We  have  learned  by  sad  experience  that  it  is  the  nature  and  disposition 
of  almost  all  men,  as  soon  as  they  get  a  little  authority,  as  they  suppose, 
they  will  immediately  begin  to  exercise  unrighteous  dominion. 

Hence  many  are  called,  but  few  are  chosen. 

No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the 
priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  by  gentleness  and  meek- 
ness, and  by  love  unfeigned; 

By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge,  which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul 
without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile — 

Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness,  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy 
Ghost ;  and  then  showing  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of  love  toward  him 
whom  thou  hast  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy. 

That  he  may  know  that  thy  faithfulness  is  stronger  than  the  cords  of 
death. 

A  CONSTANT  COMPANION 

Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men,  and  to  the  house- 
hold of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly;  then  shall 
thy  confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God ;  and  the  doctrine  of  the 
Priesthood  shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven. 

The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  companion,  and  thy  scepter  an  un- 
changing scepter  of  righteousness  and  truth ;  and  thy  dominion  shall  be  an 
everlasting  dominion,  and  without  compulsory  means  it  shall  flow  unto  thee 
forever  and  ever. 

These  words  coming  from  God  I  appeal  to  you  people  to  read  and 
reread.  I  have  read  them  hundreds  of  times.  They  are  from  Section 
121  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  are  among  the  greatest  words 
ever  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  as  recorded  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants.  They  were  given  to  him  in  Liberty  Jail  shortly  after  he  had 
been  tried  and  sentenced  to  be  shot,  in  connection  with  his  brother 
Hyrum  and  others,  by  the  State  Militia.  Thank  the  Lord  for  raising 
up  General  Doniphan,  who  declared  that  he  would  have  nothing  to  do 
with  such  cold-blooded  murder,  and  that  he  would  withdraw  his  brigade. 
His  remonstrance  so  alarmed  them  that  they  dared  not  put  the  decree 
into  execution. 

I  now  read  again — not  the  words  of  Joseph  Smith,  but  the  words  of 
the  Lord  given  to  Joseph  Smith : 

NONE  TO  ESCAPE 

For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to 
escape;  and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall  not  see,  neither  ear  that  shall  not 
hear  neither  heart  that  shall  not  be  penetrated. 

And  the  rebellious  shall  be  pierced  with  much  sorrow ;  for  their  iniqui- 
ties shall  be  spoken  from  the  housetops  and  their  secret  acts  shall  be  re- 
vealed. 

And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  people  by  the  mouths  of  my 
disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days. 

And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none  shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have 
commanded  them. 

Behold,  this  is  mine  authority,  and  the  authority  of  my  servants,  and 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


my  preface  unto  the  book  of  my  commandments,  which  I  have  given  them 
to  publish  unto  you,  O  inhabitants  of  the  earth. 

Wherefore  fear  and  tremble,  O  ye  people,  for  what  I  the  Lord  have  de- 
creed in  them  shall  be  fulfilled. 

TO  ENDS  OF  EARTH 

And  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  they  who  go  forth,  bearing  these 
tidings  unto  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  to  them  is  power  given  to  seal  both 
on  earth  and  in  heaven,  the  unbelieving  and  rebellious; 

Yea,  verily,  to  seal  them  up  unto  the  day  when  the  wrath  of  God  shall 
be  poured  out  upon  the  wicked  without  measure — • 

Unto  the  day  when  the  Lord  shall  come  to  recompense  unto  every  man 
according  to  his  work,  and  measure  to  every  man  according  to  the  measure 
which  he  has  measured  to  his  fellow  man. 

Wherefore  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  the  ends  of  the  earth,  that  all 
that  will  hear  may  hear; 

Prepare  ye,  prepare  ye  for  that  which  is  to  come,  for  the  Lord  is  nigh ; 

And  the  anger  of  the  Lord  is  kindled,  and  His  sword  is  bathed  in 
heaven,  and  it  shall  fall  upon  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth. 

And  the  arm  of  the  Lord  shall  be  revealed ;  and  the  day  cometh  that 
they  who  will  not  hear  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  neither  the  voice  of  His  serv- 
ants, neither  give  heed  to  the  words  of  the  prophets  and  apostles,  shall  be 
cut  off  from  among  the  people ; 

BROKEN  COVENANT 

For  they  have  strayed  from  mine  ordinances,  and  have  broken  mine 
everlasting  covenant ; 

They  seek  not  the  Lord  to  establish  His  righteousness,  but  every  man 
walketh  in  his  own  way,  and  after  the  image  of  his  own  God,  whose  image 
is  in  the  likeness  of  the  world,  and  whose  substance  is  that  of  an  idol, 
which  waxeth  old  and  shall  perish  in  Babylon  the  great,  which  shall  fall. 

Wherefore,  I  the  Lord,  knowing  the  calamity  which  should  come  upon 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon  my  servant  Joseph  Smith,  Tun., 
and  spake  unto  him  from  heaven,  and  gave  him  commandments; 

And  also  gave  commandments  to  others,  that  they  should  proclaim 
these  things  unto  the  world;  and  all  this  that  it  might  be  fulfilled,  which 
was  written  by  the  prophets— 

The  weak  things  of  the  world  shall  come  forth  and  break  down  the 
mighty  and  strong  ones,  that  man  should  not  counsel  his  fellow  man,  neither 
trust  in  the  arm  of  flesh — 

But  that  every  man  might  speak  in  the  name  of  God,  the  Lord,  even 
the  Savior  of  the  world; 

That  faith  might  also  increase  in  the  earth ; 

That  mine  everlasting  covenant  might  be  established; 

PROCLAIM  FULNESS 

That  the  fulness  of  my  Gospel  might  be  proclaimed  by  the  weak  and 
the  simple  unto  the  ends  of  the  world,  and  before  kings  and  rulers. 

Behold,  I  am  God  and  have  spoken  it ;  these  commandments  are  of  me, 
and  were  given  unto  my  servants  in  their  weakness,  after  the  manner 
of  their  language,  that  they  might  come  to  understanding. 

And  inasmuch  as  they  erred  it  might  be  made  known ; 

And  inasmuch  as  they  sought  wisdom  they  might  be  instructed ;_ 

And  inasmuch  as  they  sinned  they  might  be  chastened,  that  they  might 
repent ; 

And  inasmuch  as  they  were  humble  they  might  be  made  strong,  and 
blessed  from  on  high,  and  receive  knowledge  from  time  to  time. 

And  after  having  received  the  record  of  the  Nephites,  yea,  even  my 


134  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  6  Third  Day 

servant  Joseph  Smith,  Jun.,  might  have  power  to  translate  through  the 
mercy  of  God,  by  the  power  of  God,  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

And  also  those  to  whom  these  commandments  were  given,  might  have 
power  to  lay  the  foundation  of  this  Church,  and  to  bring  it  forth  out  of 
obscurity  and  out  of  darkness,  the  only  true  and  living  Church  upon  the  face 
of  the  whole  earth,  with  which  I,  the  Lord,  am  well  pleased,  speaking 
unto  the  Church  collectively  and  not  individually — 

ALLOWS  NO  SIN 

For  I  the  Lord  cannot  look  upon  sin  with  the  least  degree  of  allowance  ; 

Nevertheless,  he  that  repents  and  does  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
shall  be  forgiven; 

And  he  that  repents  not,  from  him  shall  be  taken  even  the  light  which 
he  has  received ;  for  my  Spirit  shall  not  always  strive  with  man,  saith  the 
Lord  of  Hosts. 

And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  O  inhabitants  of  the  earth ;  I  the  Lord 
am  willing  to  make  these  things  known  unto  all  flesh ; 

For  I  am  no  respecter  of  persons,  and  will  that  all  men  shall  know  that 
the  day  speedily  cometh ;  the  hour  is  not  yet,  but  is  nigh  at  hand,  when 
peace  shall  be  taken  from  the  earth,  and  the  devil  shall  have  power  over  his 
own  dominion. 

And  also  the  Lord  shall  have  power  over  His  saints,  and  shall  reign 
in  their  midst,  and  shall  come  down  in  judgment  upon  Idumea,  or  the  world. 

TRUTH  ABIDES 

Search  these  commandments,  for  they  are  true  and  faithful,  and  the 
prophecies  and  promises  which  are  in  them  shall  all  be  fulfilled. 

What  I  the  Lord  have  spoken,  I  have  spoken,  and  I  excuse  not  myself ; 
and  though  the  heavens  and  the  earth  pass  away,  my  word  shall  not  pass 
away,  but  shall  all  be  fulfilled,  whether  by  mine  own  voice  or  by  the  voice 
of  my  servants,  it  is  the  same. 

For  behold,  and  lo,  the  Lord  is  God,  and  the  Spirit  beareth  record, 
and  the  record  is  true,  and  the  truth  abideth  forever  and  ever.  Amen. 

LEAVES  BLESSINGS 

I  know  as  I  know  that  I  live,  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  Son  of  the  living  God,  the  Redeemer  of  mankind.  I  know  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living  God,  and  the  instrument 
in  the  hands  of  God  of  again  restoring  to  the  earth  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation.  I  leave  my  blessing 
upon  the  righteous  people  of  all  the  world.  I  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints 
at  home  and  abroad,  those  holding  positions  of  trust,  and  those  that  have 
gone  forth  to  proclaim  the  Gospel.  I  promise  them  that  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  shall  attend  them  if  they  live  clean  and  pure  lives. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  this  privilege  of  bearing  my  testimony  again 
and  making  this  declaration  to  the  Saints  in  this  Conference  assembled. 
May  God's  blessings  attend  you  through  time  and  all  eternity,  is  the 
earnest  and  sincere  prayer  of  my  heart.  God  bless  you.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


We  all  acknowledge  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  in  permitting  Presi- 
dent Grant  to  come  and  re-deliver  and  make  his  own,  the  messages  of 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  135 


the  Lord  which  have  been  declared  in  the  past.  We  thank  him  for  his 
blessing  and  his  assurance  that  the  Lord  will  prosper  His  work. 

The  choir  will  sing  in  closing,  "O  Great  is  the  Depth,"  by  Mendels- 
sohn, after  which  we  shall  ask  Governor  Henry  H.  Blood  to  pronounce 
the  closing  prayer. 

We  must  not  let  this  Conference  close  before  expressing  our  grati- 
tude— not  only  my  gratitude,  but  the  gratitude  of  all  of  us — for  the 
wonderful  work  of  this  Choir,  for  their  great  devotion  to  their  service ; 
to  the  conductor,  the  assistant  conductor,  the  organists,  and  of  course 
to  Brother  Richard  L.  Evans  in  connection  with  the  broadcast. 

Drive  carefully;  pedestrians,  walk  sensibly. 

After  the  benediction  this  Conference  will  adjourn  sine  die. 

The  Choir  sang,  "O  Great  is  the  Depth." 

Governor  Henry  H.  Blood  pronounced  the  benediction. 
Conference  adjourned. 


The  musical  exercises  at  the  Friday  sessions  were  furnished  by  the 
Singing  Mothers,  under  the  direction  of  Sisters  Josephine  Brower,  Olive 
N.  Rich,  Meryl  T.  Cardall,  Permilla  Bean  and  Nellie  N.  Bennion.  The 
music  at  the  Saturday  afternoon  and  Sunday  sessions  was  furnished  by 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Director.  The  congregational 
singing  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  and  Richard  P.  Condie. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played  by 
Alexander  Schreiner  and  Frank  W.  Asper.  Organ  acompaniments  and 
solo  presentations  for  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast  Sun- 
day morning  were  played  by  Alexander  Schreiner. 


Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

JOSEPH  ANDERSON, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Ashton,  Elder  Marvin  O   43 

Visits  to  Stakes  bring  encouragement,  43 — The  other  side  of  the 
picture,  44 — Appeal  for  better  leadership,  45 — The  True  story  of 
a  boy,  46 — Teachers  may  influence  by  example,  47 — Discipline 
molds  character,  48. 

Authorities  Present  -   1 

Authorities  Sustained    28 

Sustaining  the  Authorities,  28 — Church  officers  sustained  by 
assembly,  28 — Nominating  power  rests  with  President,  28 — Mem- 
bers cannot  propose  men  for  office,  28 — Cttarges  to  be  preferred  in 
regular  way,  29 — General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  29 — General 
Officers  of  the  Church,  30 — Church  Welfare  Committee,  31 — 
General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church,  31. 

Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church    31 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  O  .....119 

Evidences  of  a  marvelous  work  in  the  earth,  120 — Message  to  be 
taken  from  Priesthood  meetings,  120 — Our  duty  to  those  who 
come  here  to  live,  120 — A  testimony  of  the  truth,  121. 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E  124 

God's  plans  will  triumph,  124 — Man's  power  fades,  125 — Calmness 
commended,  125 — Liberty  a  principle  of  life,  125 — Causes  of  down- 
fall of  nations,  126 — Conditions  in  America,  126 — Spiritual  strength 
needed,  127 — Winston  Churchill's  notable  words,  128 — Indolence 
sapping  strength  of  the  nation,  128 — A  force  fighting  against  God, 
128 — Principles  that  lead  downward,  129 — Teaching  the  truth  not 
an  easy  task,  129. 

Broadcast,  Choir  and  Organ   99 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A  117 

Blessings  to  follow  judgments,  117 — Strenuous  work  needed,  118 
— God's  purposes  to  be  fulfilled,  118 — Eternal  riches  remain,  118 
— The  love  of  the  Savior,  119. 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q   86 

Human  and  divine  government,  87 — Covenants  in  this  dispensa- 
tion, 87 — The  covenant  of  eternal  marriage,  88 — A  principle  with 
promise,  88 — Marriage  and  divorce,  89 — Causes  of  divorce,  89 — 
Statistical  comparisons,  90 — What  others  say  about  us,  90. 

Changes  in  Officers    2 

Church  Officers,  Presentation  of    30 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   2 

Opening  the  Conference,  2. 


138  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   7 

Pamphlets,  7 — Compilation  and  distribution  not  authorized,  7 — 
Exaltation  through  temple  marriage,  8 — Opportunities  forfeited 
in  civil  marriage,  8 — Our  lands,  8 — Changing  scenes,  9 — Land 
blessed  through  prayer  and  effort,  9 — Church  grain  elevators,  10 
— Wheat  donations  restored,  10 — Welfare  plan,  10 — To  rebuild 
civic,  religious  lives,  11 — Expansion  of  plan,  11 — Measures  taken 
to  produce  welfare  materials,  11 — Welfare  plan  for  mutual  help- 
fulness, 12 — "Good  times,"  13 — Compulsory  military  service  in- 
augurated, 14 — Invasion  a  remote  possibility,  14 — War,  14— U.  S. 
Neutrality  violated,  IS — Hostile  acts,  IS — Registration,  16 — 
Famine  and  plague,  16 — The  Lord's  disease-preventive  law,  17 — 


The  promise,  17. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   27 

"Drive  carefully,"  27. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   27 

Introduction  to  second  session,  27. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   28 


Sustaining  the  Authorities,  28 — Nominating  power  rests  with 
President,  28 — Members  cannot  propose  men  for  office,  28 — 
Charges  to  be  preferred  in  regular  way,  29 — General  Authorities 
of  the  Church,  29 — General  Officers  of  the  Church,  30 — General 
Welfare  Committee,  31 — General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church, 


31. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   49 

Gratitude  to  "Singing  Mothers,"  49. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   50 

Introduction  to  third  session,  SO. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   71 

Mission  Presidents  to  speak,  71. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   73 

Drive  carefully,  73. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   73 

Introduction  to  fourth  session,  73. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   91 

Mission  Presidents  to  occupy  time,  91. 
Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   94 

Regarding  the  singing,  94. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   95 

Introduction  to  fifth  session,  95. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   97 

Gratitude  for  President  Grant's  presence  and  message,  97. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  105 

Appreciation  of  President  McKay's  address,  105. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  112 

President  McKay's  report,  112. 


INDEX 


139 


Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  112 

Introduction  to  closing  session,  112. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  124 

Building  a  reputation,  124. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  130 

Balance  of  time  given  to  President  Grant,  130. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  .....134 

Gratitude  for  President  Grant's  presence,  134 — Expresses  grati- 
tude for  work  of  the  Choir,  135. 

Clawson,  Elder  Rudger   .121 

An  inspiring  Conference,  121 — The  Gospel  furnishes  texts,  122 
— Temple  work  for  the  dead,  122 — Missionary  preparation,  123 — 
The  worth  of  souls  is  great,  124. 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   58 

The  need  felt  for  true  leadership,  58 — The  search  for  truth,  59 — 
Strength  comes  through  prayer,  60 — Safety  in  following  true 
leadership,  61. 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L  100 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast,  100. 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   27 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting   2 

First  Presidency  Statement    5 

The  Lord's  way,  6 — America's  opportunity  to  be  peacemaker,  6 
— Prayer  for  peace,  7. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  Present   1 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  sustained   28 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  sustained    31 

General  Officers  sustained   30 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  :  95 

Gratitude  for  faith  of  people,  95 — Kindness  acknowledged,  96 — 
The  film  "Brigham  Young"  commended,  96 — The  Church  making 
friends,  96 — Blessing  and  prayer  for  peace,  97. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  130 

Quotation  from  "The  Power  of  Truth,"  130 — Few  are  chosen,  131 
— Learn  by  experience,  132 — A  constant  companion,  132 — None  to 
escape,  132 — To  ends  of  earth,  133 — Broken  covenant,  133 — 
Proclaim  fulness,  133 — Allows  no  sin,  134 — Truth  abides,  134 — 
Leaves  blessings,  134. 

Hardy,  Elder  Rufus  K   55 

The  liberty  bell,  55 — Free  agency  a  gift  from  God,  56 — Light  and 
understanding  to  be  striven  for,  56 — Leadership  through  service, 
56 — God's  word  given  to  His  people,  57 — Success  in  local  mis- 
sionary work,  58. 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R  

Pessimism  and  optimism,  97 — Faith  in  missionary  work,  98 — Love 
of  neighbor  in  welfare  work,  98 — Melchizedek  Priesthood  percent- 
ages, 99. 


97 


Jacobs,  Elder  Joseph  

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R. 


38 


71 


Public  education  not  enough,  38 — Revelations  pertaining  to  this 
land,  39 — A  land  of  promise  ,39 — Coercion  in  government  not  the 
Lord's  way,  40 — Provision  made  for  three  branches  of  government, 
40 — Two  antagonistic  forces  at  war,  41 — Jesus  promoted  the  rights 
of  mankind,  42 — The  Church  and  this  government,  42 — Peace 
achieved  through  unselfishness,  43. 

McKay,  President  David  O   2 

Changes  in  Church  Officers,  2. 

McKay,  President  David  0   5 

Statement  by  the  First  Presidency,  5. 

McKay,  President  David  O  101 

Fundamentals  in  discard,  102 — The  perfect  guide,  102 — Improve- 
ment in  morals,  103 — A  rededi'cation  to  principles  of  unselfishness, 
104 — Upholding  the  Constitution,  104 — Conclusion,  105. 


Observance  of  laws  of  Church  wins  respect,  74 — Characteristic 
doctrines  of  the  Church,  75 — Satan's  influence  in  the  world,  75 — 
Free  agency  a  blessing  from  God,  76 — Attributes  of  God  inherited 
by  His  children,  76 — Responsibility  for  our  own  acts,  76 — Intelli- 
gent voting  commended,  77. 


F'aithful  Latter-day  Saints  commended,  50 — Internal  and  external 
evidences  of  the  Gospel,  51 — The  companionship  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  51 — Men  known  by  their  fruits,  52 — The  prophet  Isaiah 
quoted,  53 — -The  prophecy  fulfilled,  53 — Organization  perfected, 
53 — Development  of  Church  under  present  administration,  54 — 
Duty  of  membership  of  the  Church,  55. 

Richards,  Bishop  LeGrand   82 

The  Priesthood  as  a  means  of  bringing  peace,  82 — Tolerance  in 
politics  commended,  82— Safety  in  following  advice  of  Church 
leaders,  83 — Warning  of  Dr.  John  M.  Reiner,  84 — A  prayer 
answered,  85 — A  lesson  in  the  Savior's  words  to  Peter,  85. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   32 

A  high  objective  given,  32 — A  conclusion  reached  by  President 
Grant,  32 — The  sovereignty  of  Christ  must  be  acknowledged,  33 — 
The  power  of  God  is  with  His  Church,  33 — The  Lord  magnifies 
His  servants,  34 — Repentance  a  saving  principle,  34 — Joy  through 
forgiveness,  35. 


McKay,  Elder  Thomas  E. 
Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F.  ... 


110 


73 


Richards,  Elder  George  F. 


50 


Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting 


73 


INDEX  141 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting   50 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   105 

Sabbath  observance  uplifting,  106 — Prophets  have  raised  a  warn- 
ing voice,  106 — A  prophecy  fulfilled  in  latter  days,  107 — Promises 
made  regarding  American  continent,  108 — Modern  prophecies,  108 
• — Responsibilities  of  Church  members,  109. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  113 

The  call  to  repentance,  113 — A  warning  to  the  world,  113 — The 
judgments  to  come,  114 — The  word  of  the  Lord  to  the  mission- 
aries, 115 — The  word  of  the  Lord  has  gone  forth,  116 — The  way 
of  escape,  117. 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed    18 

Quotations  from  the  scriptures  on  prayer,  19 — Servants  of  the 
Lord  blessed  through  prayer,  19 — Story  of  a  woman's  conversion, 
19 — Missionaries  sent  in  answer  to  prayer,  20 — A  pioneer  experi- 
ence, 20— Faith  in  God  shown  by  great  men,  21. 

Statement  by  the  First  Presidency    5 

The  Lord's  way,  6 — America's  opportunity  to  be  peacemaker,  6 — 
Prayer  for  peace,  7. 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H   36 

Admonition  to  prove  all  things,  36 — The  value  of  a  testimony,  36 
■ — The  scriptures  make  clear  the  truth,  37 — Safety  in  keeping  the 
commandments,  37. 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   112 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting   95v 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   66 

Plan  of  salvation  of  divine  origin,  66 — Man's  three  estates,  66 — 
Covenants  made  by  the  Lord,  67 — Abraham  shown  some  of  the 
Lord's  work,  68 — The  covenant  re-established  by  the  Savior,  69 — 
Many  dispensations  given  to  GodVchildren,  70 — The  last  dispensa- 
tion, 70. 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A.   61 

Preparedness  a  part  of  the  Gospel  plan,  61 — True  education  a 
protection  against  evil,  62 — The  duty  of  schools,  62 — Religious 
training  must  be  encouraged,  63- — Importance  of  practical  educa- 
tion, 64— Opportunities  lie  ahead,  65 — Moral  and  spiritual  training 
are  factors  against  evil,  65. 

Wirthlin,  Elder  Joseph  L   22 

Blessings  enumerated,  22 — Opportunities  for  boys  in  Priesthood  23 
— Story  of  a  Bishop's  success,  23 — A  boy's  prayer  answered,  24 — 
The  authority  to  baptize,  25 — Service  brings  its  reward,  26. 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar    78 

Labors  of  missionaries  praised,  79 — A  tribute  to  the  people  of  New 
England,  79 — American  ideals  corrupted,  79 — Honor  done  to  C.  E. 
Dallin,  80 — An  appeal  for  loyalty  to  the  constitution,  81— Faith 
overcomes  fear,  81. 


(BooL  dimdquWd&hA. 

The  Deseret  Book  Company  is  headquarters  for  all 
L.  D.  S.  publications,  as  well  as  for  general  books  of 
every  kind.  We  especially  call  your  attention  to  the 
following  books,  on  sale  here: 

Program  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  by  John  A.  Widtsoe  $1.00  (postpaid) 

Unto  the  Hills  (The  Spoken  Word) 

by  Richard  L.  Evans  $1.50  (postpaid) 

A  Rational  Theology 

by  J.  A.  Widtsoe  $1.00  (postpaid) 

Priesthood  and  Church  Government 

by  John  A.  Widtsoe  -  $1.75 

Prepared  as  the  text  book  for  the  members  of  the  Church 
holding  the  Higher  Priesthood.  This  book  will  be  used 
during  the  year  1941  as  the  official  text  book. 

Special  price  to  Priesthood  members — $1.50  or  $1.35 
if  cash  accompanies  the  order. 

A  Century  of  Mormonism  in  Great  Britain, 


by  Richard  L.  Evans  $1.25  (postpaid) 

Romance  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 

by  Josiah  E.  Hickman.  $2.50  (postpaid) 

Progress  of  Man, 

by  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  $1.50  (postpaid) 


Whatever  your  book  needs,  consult  us  first.  We  have 
the  most  comprehensive  stock  of  books  in  the  inter- 
mountain  region,  and  we  specialize  in  books  about  the 
Mormons  and  the  West.  We  invite  your  inquiries. 

Prompt  Service  by  Mail. 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

44  East  South  Temple,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 

Taken  from  his  sermons  and  writings  as  they  are  found  in  the  Documentary 
History  and  other  publications  of  the  Church  and  written  or  published  in 
the  days  of  the  Prophet's  ministry 

Selected  and  arranged  by  the  Historian,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  his 
Assistants  in  the  Historian's  Office  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Many  of  these  discourses  and  writings  appear  in  the  Documentary 
History  of  the  Church,  but  others  have  not  been  included  in  these  volumes, 
but  are  scattered  through  the  early  publications  of  the  Church.  It  has 
been  difficult  even  for  the  student  to  obtain  these  because  the  old  publica- 
tions are  not  accessible  for  general  use. 

SPECIALLY  PRICED  AT  $2.00 


Stories  of  Latter-day  Saint  Hymns 

(Their  Authors  and  Composers) 
By 

GEORGE  D.  PYPER 

"The  Latter-day  Saints  have  always  been  a  singing  people.  Some 
of  their  greatest  sermons  and  messages  have  come  through  the  avenue  of 
song." 

So  writes  the  author,  George  D.  Pyper,  in  this  fascinating  story  of  an 
essential  feature  in  the  lives  of  a  culture  loving  people. 

Well  illustrated  throughout,  this  work  will  take  a  high  place  in  literary 
circles,  and  will  win  a  permanent  spot  in  the  hearts  of  all  lovers  of  great 
and  good  music. 

PRICE— $2.00 


VISUAL  AIDS 

To  be  visually  prepared  is  one  of  the  greatest  of  assets  to  a  teacher. 

For  particulars  and  descriptive  literature  we  invite  you  to  communicate 
with  us. 

We  are  prepared  to  give  demonstrations  in  all  types  of  equipment 
and  to  offer  our  Three  S  plan:   SURVEY,  SUGGESTIONS,  SERVICE. 


DESEHET  BOOK  COMPANY 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


