OnsL  dkwdhsxL  fciqhJwnik. 
ANNUAL 

coimcf 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

♦ 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

OpdL  ^  5  and  6, 1W 

With  Report^>f  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Printed  in  Hie  United  States  of  America 


"THE  ENIGMA  OF  PALMYRA" 

For  more  than  100  years  vigorous,  but  futile  attempts  have 
been  made  to  explain  him  away,  only  to  be  rejected,  dis- 
credited or  abandoned.  , 

One  explanation  survives  the  tests  of  time  and  truth.  Read  it, 
and  its  many-sided  manifestations  in  these  books: 

JOSEPH  SMITH,  AN  AMERICAN  PROPHET....$3.00 


By  John  Henry  Evans 

JOSEPH  SMITH,  THE  PROPHET  $3.00 

By  Preston  Nibley 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  PROPHET 

JOSEPH  SMITH  $2.50 

By  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

PROPHECIES  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH  AND 

THEIR  FULFILLMENT  $1.50 

By  Nephi  L.  Morris 


One  significant  and  impressive  fact  about  him  is  the  caliber 
of  men  whose  love  and  loyalty  he  won,  and  what  they  ac- 
complished under  the  motivation  and  enthusiasm  of  their 
testimonies: 


BRIGHAM  YOUNG,  THE  MAN  AND 

HIS  WORK  $2.50 

By  Preston  Nibley 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG,  THE  COLONIZER  $3.00 

By  Milton  R.  Hunter 

HEBER  C.  KIMBALL  $3.00 

By  Orson  F.  Whitney 

DANIEL  HANMER  WELLS  $2.50 

By  Bryant  S.  Hinckley 

EZRA  T.  BENSON  $3.00 


By  John  Henry  Evans  and  Minnie  Egan  Anderson 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 
44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Eighteenth  Annual 


Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-Day  Saints 

The  One  Hundred  Eighteenth  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Sunday,  Monday,  and  Tuesday,  April  4,  5, 
and  6,  1948. 

General  sessions  of  the  conference  were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and 
2:00  p.m.,  Sunday,  Monday,  and  Tuesday,  and  the  General  Priest- 
hood meeting  convened  Monday  evening  at  7:00. 

A  special  Priesthood  meeting  was  held  in  the  Temple  Wednes- 
day morning  at  9:00,  to  which  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church, 
presidencies  of  stakes  and  missions  and  other  designated  officers 
were  invited.  A  report  of  the  special  priesthood  meeting  is  not 
included  in  this  record. 

The  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast  was  presented  Sunday  morning, 
April  4,  at  8:30  over  Radio  Station  KSL  and  the  Columbia  Broad- 
casting System,  a  report  of  which  broadcast  is  included  in  this  pamph- 
let. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast,  which  was  present- 
ed over  KSL  and,  through  the  courtesy  and  facilities  of  the  Columbia 
Broadcasting  Co.'s  system,  throughout  the  United  States  on  Sunday 
morning  at  9:30,  is  also  made  a  part  of  this  report. 

Television  equipment  had  been  installed  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
thus  enabling  those  who  gathered  in  that  building  to  see  as  well  as 
hear  the  speakers  and  those  who  had  furnished  music. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  was  present  and  presided  at 
each  of  the  sessions.  He  also  conducted  the  services  at  each  of  the 
sessions,  with  the  exception  of  the  Monday  morning  meeting  which 
was  conducted  by  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in 
the  First  Presidency,  and  the  Monday  afternoon  meeting,  which  was 
conducted  by  President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the 
First  Presidency. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  Present 

The  First  Presidency:  George  Albert  Smith,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr., 
and  David  O.  McKay. 

Of  The  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  George  F.  Richards, 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  *,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Albert 
E.  Bowen,  Harold  B.  Lee,  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson, 
Mark  E.  Petersen,  **,  and  Henry  D.  Moyle. 

*  Elder  Stephen  L  Richards  was  returning  from  a  visit  to  the  South  American 
missions. 

**  Elder  Matthew  Cowley  was  visiting  missions  in  the  Pacific. 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  1  First  Dag 

Patriarch  to  the  Church :  Eldred  G.  Smith. 

Of  the  Assistants  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Marion  G.  Romney,  ***,  Clifford  E.  Young. 

The  First  Council  of  Seventy:  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R. 
Ivins,  Richard  L.  Evans,  Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  S.  Dilworth  Young,  Mil- 
ton R.  Hunter,  and  Bruce  R.  McConkie. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric:  LeGrand  Richards,  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin, 
and  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson. 

Officers  and  Other  Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  and  A. 
William  Lund,  assistant. 

Members  of  the  General  Welfare  Committee,  Church  Welfare 
Program. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  Commissioner  of 
Education,  and  Seminary  Supervisors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Counselors,  Bishops  of  Wards 
and  their  Counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs,  High  Priests, 
Seventies,  Elders,  General  Stake  and  Ward  officers  of  Auxiliary 
Associations,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

Mission  Presidents:  Richard  L.  Evans,  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah;  Roy  W.  Doxey,  Eastern  States;  S.  Dilworth  Young,  New 
England;  Creed  Haymond,  Northern  States;  William  L.  Killpack, 
North  Central  States;  Francis  W.  Brown,  Central  States;  Thomas 
W.  Richards,  East  Central  States;  J.  Robert  Price,  Central  Atlantic 
States;  Heber  Meeks,  Southern  States;  Glenn  G.  Smith,  Texas- 
Louisiana;  Francis  A.  Child,  Western  States;  Oscar  W.  McConkie, 
California;  German  E.  Ellsworth,  Northern  California;  Joel  Richards, 
Northwestern  States;  Floyed  G.  Eyre,  Canadian;  Glen  G.  Fisher, 
Western  Canada;  Arwell  L.  Pierce,  Mexico;  Lorin  F.  Jones,  Spanish- 
American;  S.  Eugene  Flake,  Navajo-Zuni. 

FIRST  DAY 

CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 

The  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast  was  presented  Sunday  morn- 
ing, April  4,  at  8:30  a.m.  over  radio  station  KSL  and  the  Columbia 
Broadcasting  Sytem. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall, furnished  the  music  for  the  service.  Dr.  Frank  W.  Asper  was 
at  the  organ.  Richard  L.  Evans  was  the  announcer. 

The  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "Rejoice,  the  Lord  is  King." 

Following  the  rendition  of  the  aforementioned  hymn,  the  Choir 
sang,  "O  Worship  the  King!" 

Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
was  the  speaker,  his  subject  being  "Feed  My  Sheep." 

***Elder  Alma  Sonne  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE  3 

ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Easter  is  past.  We  have  been  reminded  again  of  the  life,  death, 
and  resurrection  of  Christ  the  Lord,  the  Redeemer  of  mankind.  We 
are  again  reminded  of  his  charge  to  the  apostles  of  old  when  he  ap- 
peared to  them  the  third  time  after  his  resurrection,  and  speaking 
directly  to  Peter: 

He  saith  unto  him  the  third  time,  Simon,  son  of  Jonas,  lovest  thou 
me?  Peter  was  grieved  because  he  said  unto  him  the  third  time,  Lovest 
thou  me?  And  he  said  unto  him,  Lord,  thou  knowest  all  things;  thou 
knowest  that  I  love  thee.  Jesus  saith  unto  him,  Feed  my  sheep.  (John 
21:17.) 

It  is  generally  understood  that  the  Lord  here  enjoined  those  en- 
gaged in  his  work  to  teach  the  gospel,  to  impart  spiritual  strength  to 
those  who  may  be  spiritually  weak.  As  those  who  profess  to  follow 
the  Savior,  none  of  us  can  escape  that  serious  responsibility. 

And  yet,  is  there  not  another  requirement  in  that  injunction, 
which,  though  temporal  in  nature,  may  not  be  disregarded?  Can  we 
satisfy  the  concern  of  the  resurrected  Lord — "Feed  my  sheep" — when 
we  leave  his  children  as  we  find  them,  "an  hungred,"  "thirsty,"  "a 
stranger,"  "naked,"  "sick,"  and  "in  prison,"  without  satisfying  their 
need? 

Christian  Attribute  of  Charity 

So  important  is  the  literal  fulfilment  of  this  sacred  requirement 
made  of  all  disciples  of  Christ  that  he  taught  this  fundamental  prin- 
ciple: 

.  .  .  Verily  I  say  unto  you,  Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one 
of  the  least  of  these  my  brethren,  ye  have  done  it  unto  me.  (Matthew 
25:40.) 

Can  our  prayers  ascend  to  the  throne  of  mercy  and  be  heard 
and  answered,  as  we  humbly  desire,  unless  we  practise  charity  in  our 
lives?  Must  we  not  give  of  ourselves  and  of  our  means  in  helping 
others?  Good  intentions  alone  are  not  enough.  Charity  is  not  a  virtue 
to  expect  in  others  only.  It  is  the  all-important  Christian  attribute  to 
be  found  in  ourselves. 

The  Apostle  Paul  placed  it  in  its  proper  position  when  he  wrote: 

And  now  abideth  faith,  hope,  charity,  these  three;  but  the  greatest 
of  these  is  charity.    (I  Corinthians  13:13.) 

In  one  way  or  another  all  sincere  Christian  people  have  recog- 
nized and  have  endeavored  to  put  into  effect  this  fundamental  principle 
of  the  gospel.  Miserable  as  the  world  is,  it  would  be  very  much  poorer 
without  the  efforts  of  those  who  have  tried  sincerely  to  follow  this 
injunction  of  the  Master. 

And  yet,  have  we  not  been  remiss?  Have  we  not  been  prone  to 
think  that  we  have  done  our  full  duty  when  we  have  given  a  few 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  i  First  Day 

dollars  to  organized  relief  and  felt  satisfied  that  the  hungry  would  be 
fed  and  the  naked  clothed? 

Have  we  not  lost  sight  of  the  timeless  axiom  that  "the  gift  without 
the  giver  is  bare"? 

Have  we  not  been  guilty  of  preaching  work  and  industry  on  the 
one  hand,  while  destroying  independence  and  promoting  idleness  on 
the  other? 

Have  not  many  of  us  broken  the  law  given  ancient  Israel — -"Hon- 
or thy  father  and  thy  mother" — in  passing  to  others  the  care  of  those 
who  in  our  younger  years  cared  for  us? 

Care  of  the  Poor 

These  matters  are  of  the  very  essence  of  the  gospel.  We  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  so  believe.  We  have 
accepted  as  divine  pronouncements: 

...  ye  must  visit  the  poor  and  the  needy  and  administer  to  their  re- 
lief.   (D.  &.  C.  44:6.) 

And  again: 

.  .  .  thou  wilt  remember  the  poor,  and  consecrate  of  thy  properties 
for  their  support  that  which  thou  hast  to  impart  unto  them,  with  a  cove- 
nant and  a  deed  which  cannot  be  broken.    (Ibid.,  42:30.) 

Under  what  we  call  our  Church  welfare  program  we  have  en- 
deavored out  of  the  consecrations  of  the  people  to  meet  our  obliga- 
tion as  we  have  seen  it.  Because  this  is  a  problem  common  to  all  men 
of  good  will,  I  think  you  may  be  interested  in  a  brief,  general  expla- 
nation of  the  principles  on  which  we  have  sought  to  build. 

Establishment  of  Welfare  Program 

When  this  program  was  established  President  Heber  J.  Grant 
then  said  its 

.  .  .  primary  purpose  was  to  set  up  insofar  as  it  might  be  possible, 
a  system  under  which  the  curse  of  idleness  might  be  done  away  with,  the 
evils  of  the  dole  abolished,  and  independence,  industry,  thrift,  and  self- 
respect  established  among  our  people.  The  aim  of  the  Church  is  to  help 
people  to  help  themselves.  Work  .  .  .  (should  become)  the  ruling  principle 
of  the  lives  of  our  Church  membership. 

We  believe  that  it  is  the  mandate  of  Almighty  God,  binding  now 
as  when  given  anciently,  that 

In  the  sweat  of  thy  face  shalt  thou  eat  bread,  till  thou  return  unto  the 
ground;  for  out  of  it  wast  thou  taken;  for  dust  thou  art,  and  unto  dust 
shalt  thou  return.    (Genesis  3: 19.) 

Responsibility  of  Able-bodied 

We  also  accept  as  the  word  of  the  Lord: 

Thou  shalt  not  be  idle  for  he  that  is  idle  shall  not  eat  the  bread  nor 
wear  the  garments  of  the  laborer.  (D.  &  C.  42:  42.) 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


5 


This  great  principle  does  not  deny  to  the  needy  nor  to  the  poor 
the  assistance  they  should  have.  The  wholly  incapacitated,  the  aged, 
the  sickly  are  cared  for  with  all  tenderness,  but  every  able-bodied 
person  is  enjoined  to  do  his  utmost  for  himself  to  avoid  dependence, 
if  his  own  efforts  can  make  such  a  course  possible;  to  look  upon  ad- 
versity as  temporary;  to  combine  his  faith  in  his  own  ability  with 
honest  toil;  to  rehabilitate  himself  and  his  family  to  a  position  of  in- 
dependence; in  every  case  to  minimize  the  need  for  help  and  to  supple- 
ment any  help  given  with  his  own  best  efforts. 

We  believe  it  is  seldom  when  men  of  rigorous  faith,  genuine 
courage,  and  unfaltering  determination,  with  the  love  of  independence 
burning  in  their  hearts,  and  pride  in  their  own  accomplishments,  can- 
not surmount  the  obstacles  that  lie  in  their  paths. 

We  know  that  through  humble,  prayerful,  industrious,  God- 
fearing lives,  a  faith  can  be  developed  within  us  by  the  strength  of 
which  we  can  call  down  the  blessings  of  a  kind  and  merciful  Heavenly 
Father  and  literally  see  our  handicaps  vanish  and  our  independence 
and  freedom  established  and  maintained. 

Of  course,  those  in  unfortunate  circumstances  need  help.  They 
need  food  and  clothing  and  warmth  ministered  by  a  friendly  hand. 
And  they  also  need  opportunity  and  encouragement  and  direction. 

Needs  Met  Through  Consecrated  Efforts 

Through  the  consecrated  efforts  of  the  membership  of  the  Church 
both  needs  may  effectively  be  met.  The  care  of  the  needy  is  the  con- 
cern of  every  member.  Carefully  planned  programs  of  production 
and  conservation  are  designed  to  meet  the  first  need.  It  is  a  common 
sight  among  us  to  see  men  of  various  vocations  and  economic  stations 
working  together  early  of  a  morning  or  late  of  an  evening  in  the  field, 
or  in  the  cannery  without  thought  of  material  recompense. 

The  products  of  their  labors  are  gathered  into  local  bishops' 
storehouses,  and  there,  under  wise,  inspired  leadership,  the  best  pos- 
sible use  is  made  of  these  supplies  without  the  usual  costs  of  distribu- 
tion. 

We  seek  constantly  to  be  on  hand,  day  in  and  day  out,  to  meet 
promptly  and  efficiently  any  emergency  among  our  people.  We  hope 
never  to  have  on  hand  too  little  or  be  too  late  in  its  distribution. 

The  cardinal  commandment  is  "Love  thy  neighbour  as  thyself." 
Our  welfare  work  has  been  characterized  by  one  of  our  leaders,  as  a 
"neighbor  to  neighbor  plan."  I  quote  his  words: 

All  welfare  work  is  carried  out  with  fairness  and  justice,  and  without 
discrimination,  fear,  or  favor.  There  are  no  politics,  church  or  otherwise, 
in  the  administration  of  the  Church  plan.  No  one  has  anything  to  gain 
or  lose  in  a  material  way  by  any  relief  which  he  may  extend  under  the 
plan.  Those  carrying  it  out  have  neither  friends  to  reward  nor  enemies 
to  punish. 

This  puts  into  the  relief  a  personal  sympathy  that  is  wholesome  for 
all,  and  tends  to  prevept  imposition  and  overreaching.  There  is  an  in- 
finity of  difference  between  the  sack  of  flour  that  comes  over  the  back 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  4  First  Day 

fence  from  your  next  door  neighbor  and  a  sack  that  is  sent  to  you  from 
Washington.  The  one  hallows  the  giver,  and  raises  and  inspires,  with 
the  human  love  and  sympathy  behind  it,  him  who  thankfully  eats  it;  the 
other  debauches  the  hand  which  doles  out  that  which  is  not  his,  and  em- 
bitters and  enslaves  him  who  with  maledictions  devours  it.  (President  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Estes  Park  Discussion.) 

Guiding  Principles  in  Welfare  Work 

In  all  phases  of  the  work  we  seek  to  give  to  those  who  receive 
assistance  the  opportunity  to  help,  to  manage,  and  to  distribute  among 
the  needy  that  which  is  theirs.  The  crowning  principle  is  that  each 
man  shall  give  to  the  Church  that  of  which  he  is  capable  and  in  return 
be  assured  of  the  assistance  that  he  needs. 

The  second  need,  that  for  encouragement  and  opportunity,  and 
direction,  poses  another  problem.  But  usually  there  is  in  each  Church 
group,  training,  experience,  and  education  sufficient  to>  encourage  and 
direct  toward  a  more  permanent  solution  than  that  afforded  by  sup- 
plying only  food,  clothing,  and  housing  on  an  emergency  basis. 

We  can  never  get  away  from  the  fundamental  differences  that 
exist  in  the  dispositions  and  needs  of  people.  And  because  all  cases 
are  handled  by  local  ecclesiastical  officers  on  a  sympathetic  basis,  a 
permanent  solution  to  the  ills  which  caused  the  need  can  often  be 
effected. 

There  is  ordinarily  a  very  fine  margin  between  success  and 
failure.  Frequently  a  friendly  hand,  a  kind  suggestion,  a  charitable 
deed  avoids  the  worst  and  produces  the  best.  No  one  thus  helped 
loses  his  self-respect  or  his  desire  to  progress.  He  retains  his  ambition 
and  is  soon  on  the  way  to  assist  others,  even  as  he  was  helped. 

There  is  another  important  problem  in  this  connection,  a  problem 
of  deep  religious  significance.  It  can  be  truthfully  said  of  both  men 
and  women  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  that 
they  do  not  do  their  full  duty,  so  long  as  all  means  are  not  shared 
with  mother  or  father,  brother  or  sister,  son  or  daughter  in  need. 

Care  of  Aging  Parents 

Much  could  and  should  be  said  upon  this  subject  in  a  day  when 
it  appears  to  be  popular  throughout  the  nation  to  do  what  can  be 
done  by  sons  and  daughters  to  qualify  aging  parents  for  public  relief. 
Some  go  to  the  extent  of  encouraging  parents  to  deed  to  their  children 
the  property  which  they  acquired  in  their  productive  years  for  pro- 
tection and  security  in  their  old  age — all  to  better  prepare  the  parents 
to  meet  the  requirements  of  law  for  maximum  old  age  pensions  and 
assistance. 

Children  are  not  always  conscious  that  in  this  they  have  been 
guilty  of  a  double  error:  first,  in  unjustly  enriching  themselves  out 
of  the  lifetime  savings  of  their  parents;  and  secondly,  in  shirking  a 
sacred  obligation  to  care  for  their  parents.  The  magnitude  of  the  of- 
fense increases  when  the  fact  is  appreciated  that  we  have  received 
from  the  Lord  a  divine  command  to  take  care  of  our  own.  Paul  said : 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


7 


But  if  any  provide  not  for  his  own,  and  specially  for  those  of  his  own 
house,  he  hath  denied  the  faith,  and  is  worse  than  an  infidel.  ( I  Timothy 
5:8.) 

Charity  Begins  at  Home 

We  believe  that  charity  must  begin  at  home.  Can  we  hope  to  be 
charitable  to  the  stranger  if  love  does  not  abound  in  the  family?  A 
sure  step  in  the  direction  of  improvement  and  progress  in  our  own 
lives  comes  when  we  share  with  mother  or  father  in  their  dependence 
as  they  shared  with  us  in  their  productive  years. 

Jesus,  in  his  life,  did  not  overlook  this  true  principle.  Practically 
his  last  act  in  mortal  existence  was  to  provide  for  his  mother: 

Now  there  stood  by  the  cross  of  Jesus  his  mother,  and  his  mother's 
sister,  Mary  the  wife  of  Cleophas,  and  Mary  Magdalene. 

When  Jesus  therefore  saw  his  mother,  and  the  disciple  standing  by, 
whom  he  loved,  he  saith  unto  his  mother,  Woman,  behold  thy  son! 

Then  saith  he  to  the  disciple,  Behold  thy  mother!  And  from  that  hour 
that  disciple  took  her  unto  his  own  home.    (John  19:25-27.) 

We  cannot  as  children  ignore  our  obligations  to  our  parents  by 
passing  responsibility  for  their  care  to  others.  Inherent  in  the  welfare 
program  of  the  Church  is  this  fundamental  teaching.  And;  through 
its  facilities  provision  is  made  so  that  no  child  need  ignore  his  or  her 
sacred  obligation,  and  no  aged  parent  need  be  shunted  or  put  on 
public  assistance. 

We  seek  to  avoid  the  need  for  public  charity  for  those  whom 
we  love,  and  to  whom  we  are  deeply  obligated.  We  endeavor  to  re- 
frain from  indebtedness  and  obligations  we  cannot  meet.  We  aim  to 
meet  fully  every  commitment  made.  Through  consecration  of  our  la- 
bors, through  individual  initiative  and  effort,  through  mutual  consid- 
eration and  helpfulness,  motivated  by  the  spirit  of  the  Christ,  we 
have  sought  to  assist  one  another.  The  fruits  have  been  faith,  inde- 
pendence, self-reliance,  pride  in  self-accomplishment,  family  soli- 
darity, love,  and  appreciation  one  for  another. 

Surely  there  is  need  for  this  in  the  world  today.  Surely  its  ne- 
cessity is  enjoined  in  the  Master's  direction,  "Feed  my  sheep."  In 
no  other  way  can  we  hope  to  bring  to  pass  God's  purposes  here  upon 
earth  and  to  usher  in  a  reign  of  peace  and  good  will  among  men. 

As  a  concluding  number,  the  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "God  of 
Our  Fathers." 

CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

Preliminary  to  the  commencement  of  the  Sunday  morning  session 
of  the  General  Conference,  which  convened  at  10  o'clock  a.m.,  the 
regular  Sunday  morning  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast  was 
presented  from  9:30  to  10:00. 

This  broadcast  was  presented  through  the  courtesy  and  facilities 
of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  coast-to-coast  network, 
throughout  the  United  States.  The  broadcast,  written  and  announced 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


by  Richard  L.  Evans,  originated  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City 
and  was  as  follows: 

(Organ  began  playing  "As  the  Dew,"  and  then  on  signal  the 
organ  and  choir  broke  into  "Gently  Raise  the  Sacred  Strain,"  singing 
words  to  the  end  of  second  line,  and  humming  to  end  of  verse  for  an- 
nouncer's background. ) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome  you  within  these  walls  as 
music  and  the  spoken  word  are  heard  again  from  the  Crossroads  of 
the  West. 

From  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City  the  Columbia  Broads- 
casting  System  and  its  affiliated  stations  bring  you  at  this  hour  the 
music  of  the  Tabernacle  choir  and  organ  with  J.  Spencer  Cornwall 
conducting  the  choir,  Frank  W.  Asper,  Tabernacle  organist,  and  the 
spoken  word  by  Richard  Evans. 

We  open  with  an  excerpt  from  Wagner's  Tannhauser:  "Hail 
Bright  Abode,  where  song  the  heart  rejoices;  may  lays  of  peace  with- 
in thee  never  fail  ..." 

(Choir  sang  "Hail  Bright  Abode" — Wagner) 

Announcer:  The  choir  continues  from  Temple  Square  with  an 
anthem  by  I.  W.  Prosser,  arranged  from  a  theme  by  Gluck,  "The 
Christian's  Prayer  of  Praise." 

(Choir  sang  "Christian's  Prayer  of  Praise") 

Announcer:  Dr.  Frank  W.  Asper,  Tabernacle  organist  recalls 
the  colorful  phrases  of  the  "Toccata  in  F,"  by  Widor. 

(Organ  presented  "Toccata  in  F") 

Announcer:  From  the  pen  of  B.  Cecil  Gates  we  hear  now  wor- 
shipful music  that  matches  the  reverent  message  of  the  Lord's  Prayer: 
"Our  Father  which  art  in  heaven,  Hallowed  be  thy  name.  Thy  king- 
dom come.  Thy  will  be  done  in  earth,  as  it  is  in  heaven.  Give  us  this 
day  our  daily  bread.  And  forgive  us  our  debts,  as  we  forgive  our 
debtors.  And  lead  us,  not  into  temptation,  but  deliver  us  from  evil: 
For  thine  is  the  kingdom,  and  the  power  and  the  glory,  for  ever, 
Amen." 

(Choir  sang  "The  Lord's  Prayer"- — Gates) 


It  has  often  been  observed  that  a  little  learning  is  a  dangerous 
thing.  But  if  a  little  learning  is  dangerous,  surely  a  little  ignorance  is 
dangerous  also.  And  then  think  how  great  must  be  the  danger  of  a 
lot  of  ignorance?  If  we  want  some  idea  of  how  little  we  know  of 
what  there  is  to  know,  to  begin  with  we  need  only  look  into  a  large 
library  and  see  the  almost  endless  shelves  of  books  that  no  man  in 
this  life  will  ever  have  time  to  read.  We  sometimes  marvel  that  all 
the  men  who  ever  lived,  ever  found  time  or  reason  to  write  them. 
In  the  Library  of  Congress  there  are  about  nine  million  books  and 
pamphlets.  Add  to  these  all  the  other  written  works  in  all  the  other 


1 1 


A  LITTLE  LEARNING" 
By  Richard  L.  Evans 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


9 


libraries  of  the  world;  add  to  these  all  the  written  works  that  have 
been  lost  or  destroyed  in  all  ages  past — and  we  begin  to  have  some 
inkling  of  an  idea  how  little  we  know  of  what  all  men  have  known, 
or  have  thought  they  have  known.  But  this  isn't  all:  Add  to  this  all 
there  is  to  learn  that  isn't  to  be  found  in  books;  add  to  this  a  list  of 
all  the  questions  that  no  man  can  answer,  all  the  things  that  no  man 
can  do,  and  we  may  begin  to  have  some  small  idea  of  our  inadequacy. 
"Man,"  remarked  Montaigne,  "is  certainly  stark  mad;  he  cannot 
make  a  worm,  and  yet  he  will  be  making  gods  by  the  dozens."  We 
marvel  at  the  mind  of  man.  But  how  much  more  should  we  marvel  at 
the  mind  that  made  man,  and  that  made  so  many  things  beyond  man's 
comprehension.  We  are  but  the  merest  children  scratching  at  the 
surface  of  truths  so  profound,  so  illimitable,  so  beyond  our  present 
understanding  that  conceit  of  learning  ill  becomes  anyone.  We  may 
know  some  of  the  answers;  we  may  think  we  know  many  more;  but 
there  is  still  so  much  that  no  man  knows,  so  much  that  all  of  us  to- 
gether do  not  know — so  much  for  which  we  must  venture  forth  in 
faith.  "He  hath  shewed  thee,  O  man,  what  is  good;  and  what  doth  the 
Lord  require  of  thee,  but  to  do  justly,  and  to  love  mercy,  and  to  walk 
humbly  with  thy  God?" 

Announcer:  And  now,  Mr.  Cornwall  and  the  choir  continue  with 
an  earnest  utterance  of  the  hope  and  assurance  of  things  to  come,  with 
words  by  Alexander  Neibaur  and  music  by  A.  C.  Smyth:  "Come, 
Thou  Glorious  Day  of  Promise." 

(Choir  sang  "Come,  Thou  Glorious  Day  of  Promise" — Smyth) 

Announcer:  We  close  now  from  Temple  Square  with  a  chorus 
from  the  "Creation,"  by  Franz  Joseph  Haydn,  in  praise  of  the  glorious 
handiwork  of  God  who  moved  upon  the  face  of  the  deep,  who  made 
man  in  his  own  image,  and  who  fashioned  a  glorious  world:  "Awake 
the  harp,  and  let  your  joyful  song  resound.  Rejoice  in  the  Lord,  the 
mighty  God,  for  he  both  heaven  and  earth  has  clothed  in  stately 
dress." 

(Choir  sang  "Awake  the  Harp" — Haydn) 

Announcer:  As  we  leave  you  now  within  the  shadows  of  the 
everlasting  hills,  again  we  wish  for  you  peace  this  day — and  always. 

This  concludes  another  presentation  in  the  19th  year  of  this 
broadcast  from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  brought 
to  you  by  the  Columbia  network  and  its  affiliated  stations,  originating 
with  Radio  Station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

FIRST  GENERAL  CONFERENCE  SESSION 

Sunday  morning,  April  4,  1948. 

The  First  session  of  the  Conference  convened  in  the  Tabernacle 
at  10:00  a.m.,  immediately  following  the  conclusion  of  the  Choir  and 
Organ  broadcast. 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  4  First  Day 

President  George  Albert  Smith  presided  and  conducted  the  meet- 
ing. 

The  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity.  In  addition,  thousands 
who  were  unable  to  find  accommodation  in  the  Tabernacle  assembled 
in  the  Assembly  Hall,  just  south  of  the  Tabernacle,  and  on  the 
grounds. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the  music  for  this  session. 


President  George  Albert  Smith: 

I  am  thankful  to  see  you  all  here  this  morning  in  the  house  of 
the  Lord,  and  I  would  like  to  suggest  to  us  all  that  we  are  here  as 
guests  this  morning.  This  is  his  house,  and  I  am  sure  that  if  we  have 
all  come  with  a  desire  in  our  hearts  to  worship  he  will  bless  us  as  he 
has  always  done  in  the  past. 

There  is  some  information  that  you  should  have,  and  I  shall 
now  read  it  to  you. 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the  118th  annual  conference  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

There  are  on  the  stand  this  morning  all  of  the  General  Authori- 
ties of  the  Church  except  Elder  Stephen  L  Richards,  who  is  touring 
the  South  American  Missions;  Elder  Matthew  Cowley,  who  is  pre- 
siding over  the  Pacific  Missions;  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  who  is  in  Europe 
in  charge  of  the  European  Missions;  also  Brother  Thomas  E.  McKay, 
who  is  convalescing  at  home. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  is  the  Clerk  of  the  conference. 

This  full  service  will  be  broadcast  over  station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  as  will  also  the  service  this  afternoon,  beginning  at  2:00  p.m.; 
likewise  the  services  tomorrow,  Monday  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00  p.m.; 
and  also  the  two  services  on  Tuesday  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00  p.m. 
By  arrangement  through  KSL,  these  same  sessions  will  be  broadcast 
in  whole  or  in  part  over  the  following  stations :  KDSH  at  Boise,  KSUB 
at  Cedar  City,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KSVC  at 
Richfield,  KJAM  at  Vernal,  and  over  KTYL  at  Mesa  by  transcrip- 
tion. 

Any  important  messages  and  calls  that  come  to  us  for  persons 
supposed  to  be  in  attendance  at  the  conference  will  be  announced  at 
the  dismissal  of  this  meeting  over  the  loud  speaking  system  on  the 
grounds.  Everyone  would  do  well  to  listen  carefully  to  such  announce- 
ments. 

Station  KSL  has  set  up  for  us  a  television  installation  which  will 
enable  those  sitting  in  the  Assembly  Hall  to  see  as  well  as  to  hear 
the  speakers,  and  the  choirs  that  sing  for  us.  The  television  pictures 
will  not  be  all  that  we  hope  they  will  become  some  day,  but  they  will 
be  sufficiently  good  to  be  a  great  help  to  those  who  are  seated  in  the 
Assembly  Hall. 

For  the  beautiful  calla  lillies  that  you  see  here  on  the  stand  we 
are  indebted  to  the  good  people  of  the  Berkeley  Stake  in  California, 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  11 


who  have  sent  them  to  us  with  their  compliments.  These  flowers  add 
much  to  our  pleasure  and  comfort  on  this  occasion. 

The  choir  singing  for  today's  sessions  of  the  conference  will  be 
by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting, 
and  with  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ  for  the  morning  session, 
and  with  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  for  the  afternoon  session. 

We  will  begin  the  morning  services  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
and  congregation  singing  "Come,  Come  Ye  Saints"  hymn  book  page 
47,  L.D.S.  Hymns  194. 

Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  directing,  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at 
the  organ. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Casper  H. 
Parker,  of  the  Hillside  Stake,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  congregation,  "Come, 
Come  Ye  Saints." 

Elder  Casper  H.  Parker,  President  of  the  Hillside  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 

Selection  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  "Come,  Restful  Peace" — by 
Bach. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  am  sure  that  all  present,  this  morning,  have  every  reason  to 
be  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  our  blessings.  Seated,  as  we  are,  in  this 
comfortable  Tabernacle,  although  the  weather  is  inclement,  we,  here, 
and  in  the  adjoining  building,  are  comfortable  and  because  of  the  in- 
telligence of  men,  devices  have  been  provided  so  that  we  can  both 
see  and  hear  even  in  separate  buildings  and  some  distance  apart. 

Organization  and  Growth  of  Church 

A  hundred  eighteen  years  ago  next  Tuesday  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  organized  under  the  direction  of 
our  Heavenly  Father  and  his  beloved  Son,  Jesus  Christ.  The  Savior 
later  directed,  in  a  very  positive  way  by  revelation,  that  the  Church 
should  be  called  after  his  name — the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  There  were  but  a  few  people  in  the  room  when  the 
Church  was  organized,  and  they  were  not  very  popular.  The  enemy 
of  all  righteousness  had  already  begun  to  disturb  those  who  believed 
that  Joseph  Smith  had  received  the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of 
Mormon  was  translated.  He  was  hounded  from  place  to  place  from 
that  time  on,  not  for  any  wrong  that  he  did  but  for  the  same  reason 
that  the  prophets  of  old  had  to  suffer  for  teaching  the  truth. 

Organized  as  it  was  in  the  state  of  New  York  the  first  branches 
were  there,  and  then,  under  pressure,  members  of  the  Church  moved 
to  Kirtland,  Ohio,  and  there  were  made  uncomfortable,  not  because 
of  anything  they  had  done  to  disturb  their  neighbors,  but  because 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  4  First  Day 

they  testified  that  God  had  spoken  in  this  latter  day  and  that,  to  many 
people,  seemed  sacrilegious. 

The  Church  moved  from  place  to  place,  continuing  to  grow, 
and  I  may  say  that  every  day,  when  the  sun  set,  found  the  Church 
larger  than  it  had  been  when  the  sun  arose  that  morning.  Eventually 
the  people  assembled  in  Jackson  and  other  counties  in  Missouri,  and 
then  from  there  went  to  Commerce,  Illinois,  which  later  became  the 
city  of  Nauvoo.  Commerce  was  only  a  small  place,  with  three  or 
four  houses;  we  would  call  them  ranch  houses  these  days,  I  think, 
but  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord  conceived  the  idea  of  building  Zion  in 
that  particular  part  of  the  world. 

The  result  was  that  the  people  who  were  driven  from  Missouri 
and  other  places  and  who  were  coming  in  from  Europe  began  the 
building  of  the  City  Beautiful — Nauvoo —  on  one  of  the  most  pictur- 
esque sites  for  a  city  along  the  Mississippi  River,  and  they  drained 
the  soil  so  that  it  would  not  be  swampy  and  unhealthful  for  them. 

They  established  homes,  built  a  beautiful  temple,  raised  their 
crops,  and  in  less  than  seven  years  Nauvoo  was  the  largest  city  in  the 
state  of  Illinois.  Chicago  then  had  a  population  of  approximately 
five  thousand;  Springfield,  Illinois,  a  population  of  approximately 
twelve  thousand.  Nauvoo,  in  something  over  six  years,  became  a  city 
of  approximately  twenty  thousand  souls. 

It  has  been  marvelous  how  the  Lord  has  brought  into  the  hearts 
and  minds  of  individuals  a  desire  to  pray  and  worship  as  he  would 
have  them  to  do. 

Western  Movement 

In  the  year  1846,  the  beautiful  city  of  Nauvoo  was  destroyed 
by  mobs  of  wicked  men  who  were  determined  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  should  not  live  there,  and  they  drove  the  helpless  people  across 
the  Mississippi  River,  from  where  began  their  pilgrimage  to  the  Rocky 
Mountains.  Of  course  we  have  an  idea  that  the  property  that  we  pos- 
sessed as  a  people  was  an  inducement,  but  one  of  the  principal  reasons 
was  they  hated  the  people  who  believed  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
They  started  west,  being  scattered  from  that  part  of  the  country,  and 
the  majority  of  them  began  the  journey  west  with  wagons  drawn  by 
such  animals  as  they  could  obtain,  and  they  eventually  arrived  in  the 
valley  of  the  Great  Salt  Lake. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  his  brother  Hyrum  had  been 
martyred,  although  the  Prophet  had  indicated  in  a  sermon  preached 
not  very  long  before  the  people  were  driven  out,  in  which  he  said  to 
them  that  the  persecution  would  continue  and  that  eventually  they 
would  go  to  the  tops  of  the  Rocky  Mountains,  and  become  a  mighty 
people  in  the  midst  thereof. 

If  he  had  never  predicted  anything  else,  that  of  itself  indicated 
he  was  a  prophet  of  God. 

In  1 847,  the  vanguard  of  those  people  arrived  in  this  valley,  and 
others  followed,  until  most  of  the  people  who  had  lived  in  Nauvoo 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  13 


were  located  here.  Later,  approximately  four  thousand  of  the  Saints 
who  had  come  from  the  eastern  part  of  the  United  States  and  from 
across  the  sea  were  assembled  at  Iowa  City  on  the  Mississippi  River, 
and  having  no  conveyances  or  animals  to  draw  them  they  built  hand- 
carts and  started  their  pilgrimage  across  the  plains  to  the  valley  we  are 
now  in.  Many  of  them  lost  their  lives  by  starvation  and  cold.  Some 
of  the  bravest  and  most  courageous  people  in  all  the  world  were  with 
those  groups  that  were  willing  to  turn  their  backs  on  the  so-called 
civilization  to  go  into  the  wilderness  and  make  their  homes  among  the 
wild  beasts  and  the  still  more  savage  red  man. 

Arrival  in  the  Salt  Lake  Valley 

One  hundred  years  ago  last  July  the  first  of  those  people  arrived 
here;  one  hundred  forty-three  men,  three  women,  and  two  children 
were  in  the  first  company.  What  did  they  find  here?  It  may  be 
illustrated  by  what  was  said  by  a  stranger  who  some  years  later  re- 
ferred to  this  as  a  desert  country.  He  was  talking  to  my  grandfather 
for  whom  I  was  named,  and  he  said: 

"Mr.  Smith,  why  did  your  people  leave  that  wonderful  rich, 
fertile  land  in  the  east  and  come  here  into  this  God-forsaken  country?" 

And  Grandfather's  reply  to  him  was  typical  of  the  man: 

"Why,"  he  said,  "we  came  here  willingly  because  we  had  to." 

A  hundred  years  have  elapsed  since  that  time,  and  today  we  are 
meeting  in  a  house  that  was  erected  by  those  people.  Among  the 
first  things  they  did  after  they  came  here  was  to  take  possession  of  the 
country  in  the  name  of  the  United  States — it  was  then  Mexican 
territory — and  then  they  began  building  their  little  homes  and  houses 
of  worship.  The  first  place  of  worship  was  not  very  far  from  where 
I  stand  on  this  block,  called  the  old  Bowery. 

Observance  of  the  Sabbath 

The  first  Sunday  after  they  arrived,  they  held  religious  services. 
The  fact  that  they  were  uncomfortable;  that  they  had  no  homes  to 
shelter  them,  made  no  difference.  They  were  in  the  service  of  the 
Lord.  They  were  his  children,  and  so  they  were  called  together  as  has 
been  the  custom  ever  since  the  beginning,  on  the  Sabbath  day,  to 
worship  our  Father  in  heaven. 

It  may  be  of  interest  when  we  think  of  the  desecration  of  the 
Sabbath  day  in  our  own  land — I  speak  of  the  land  of  America — a 
day  that  has  been  set  apart  by  many  people  for  their  vacations  and  for 
their  pleasures,  notwithstanding  there  thundered  down  from  Sinai 
one  of  the  Ten  Commandments  that  we  should  honor  the  Sabbath 
day  and  keep  it  holy.  One  of  the  first  sermons  that  were  preached 
in  this  valley  was  by  President  Brigham  Young,  and  he  warned  the 
people  to  honor  the  Sabbath  day  and  to  keep  it  holy,  and  no  matter 
how  difficult  their  circumstances  they  were  not  to  go  out  and  do 
manual  labor  on  the  Sabbath  day.    From  that  time  on,  the  Church  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fint  Day 


Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  has  encouraged  its  people  to  re- 
member the  Sabbath  day  to  keep  it  holy  because  it  is  pleasing  to  our 
Heavenly  Father  that  we  do  so. 


From  that  little  group  of  people  that  came  into  this  valley,  they 
began  to  scatter.  Today  in  Idaho  there  are  over  one  hundred  thousand 
members  of  the  Church — in  Wyoming  large  numbers;  in  Nevada  large 
numbers;  in  Arizona,  and  California —  it  may  be  of  interest  to  some 
of  you  to  know  that  in  the  territory  surrounding  Los  Angeles  there 
are  more  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
residing  now  than  in  any  other  section  of  the  country  outside  of  the 
Salt  Lake  Valley.  The  Church  membership  has  continued  to  grow 
and  spread.  I  haven't  mentioned  Colorado.  I  haven't  mentioned 
some  of  the  states  in  the  north.  I  haven't  mentioned  western  Canada. 

In  every  part  of  the  United  States  there  are  branches  of  the 
Church  and  wards  and  stakes,  in  many  parts,  the  population  of  which 
is  largely  a  membership  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  And  here  we  are  in  this  house  today.  Count  your  many 
blessings.  Think  of  our  opportunities.  Think  of  our  privileges.  I 
wonder  if  we  can  be  grateful  enough  for  what  the  Lord  has  done  for  us. 

In  a  hundred  years,  the  name  of  a  church  that  was  held  in  de- 
rision by  many  of  our  Father's  children,  has  become  honored  by  the 
great  and  the  good  and  the  wise  men  and  women  of  the  world.  Almost 
every  day  there  comes  to  the  Church  offices  at  Salt  Lake  City  cor- 
respondence from  different  parts  of  the  world  that  praises  the  member- 
ship of  this  Church.  Many  of  these  letters  are  written  by  members  of 
other  churches  or  by  people  who  belong  to  no  church.  Only  last 
year  you  were  visited  here  by  the  governors  of  all  but  five  of  the 
states  and  territories  of  the  United  States.  They  came  here  to  hold 
a  convention.  They  attended  an  evening  meeting  in  this  house,  rep- 
resentatives from  all  these  various  states  and  territories.  They  had 
their  wives  and  secretaries  and  associates.  There  were  over  four 
hundred  of  them  as  I  remember  now.  They  met  in  this  Tabernacle, 
and  some  of  those  individuals  who  were  here  remarked  after  the 
meeting  concluded,  there  was  something  different  here  from  what 
they  had  found  elsewhere. 


Last  year  the  board  of  directors  of  the  United  States  Steel 
Corporation,  some  of  whom  had  not  been  here  before,  met  in  this 
city.  They  had  a  noon-day  luncheon  in  the  Hotel  Utah  and  invited 
their  friends  in  while  they  were  here,  and  after  the  meal  was  over,  the 
president  announced  that  there  was  no  program,  but  if  anybody  had 
anything  to  say  he  was  at  liberty  to  speak. 

Former  Governor  Miller  of  New  York,  who  was  the  counsel 
general  of  the  United  States  Steel  Corporation,  said:    "I  would  like 


Progress  During  Last  Century 


Comment  of  Former  Governor  Miller 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  15 


to  say  a  few  words,"  and  after  that,  referring  to  the  fact  that  he  had 
been  in  our  canyons  and  seen  the  valleys  and  had  visited  Brigham 
Young  University  and  the  fine  campus  there  and  other  things  that 
he  had  observed  that  interested  him  very  much  he  said: 

These  people  here  have  something  that  we  don't  have.  I  don't  know 
what  it  is,  but  they  have  it,  and  we  do  not.  It  may  be  spirituality  or  some- 
thing else.  You  may  call  it  what  you  will,  but  I  am  saying  to  you  that 
they  have  something  that  we  do  not  have  where  we  live. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  that  is  what  you  feel  this  morning,  the 
inspiration  of  the  Lord.  He  has  promised  us  that  when  two  or  three 
of  us  shall  meet  together  in  his  name  he  will  be  there  and  that  to  bless 
them,  and  when  congregations  such  as  we  have  this  morning  assemble, 
I  am  sure  that  under  those  circumstances  they  are  entitled  to  his  bless- 
ings. I  have  no  doubt  we  have  in  this  audience  this  morning  many 
people  not  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  but  they  are  his  children,  his  sons  and  daughters,  and  in  this 
house  they  will  feel  that  influence  and  that  spirit  that  inspires  men  and 
women  to  righteous  living.  We  want  them  all  to  know  that,  crowded 
as  we  are,  they  are  all  welcome,  and  we  hope  they  can  be  made  com- 
fortable. 

Message  of  the  Missionaries 

The  Church  continues  to  grow  and  develop.  Why?  Because 
it  is  the  Lord's  will.  He  has  promised  us  if  we  would  do  our  part  that 
he  will  open  our  way,  and  he  has  done  it  in  a  marvelous  manner, 
even  since  the  great  world  war  in  those  countries  that  were  torn  with 
strife.  We  have  today  more  than  four  thousand  missionaries  travel- 
ing over  the  face  of  the  earth,  mostly  men,  some  women,  giving  their 
time,  offering  what  they  can  in  the  way  of  encouragement  to  a  sick 
world,  for  we  are  a  sick  world,  calling  men  and  women  to  repentance, 
assuring  them  that  unless  they  turn  unto  the  Lord  there  will  be  no 
peace.  These  missionaries  pay  their  own  expenses  or  have  their 
expenses  paid  by  their  loved  ones,  receive  no  compensation  from  the 
Church  whatsoever,  and  the  desire  is  that  all  men  and  women,  where- 
ever  they  may  be  in  the  world  may  have  brought  to  them  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  to  the  end  that  they  will  acknowledge  God 
and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  be  willing  to  take  the  advice  of  the  Father 
of  us  all  and  live  in  such  a  way  that  in  the  end  we  may  have  eternal 
life  in  the  celestial  kingdom.  "Eternal  life,"  think  of  it,  in  the  celestial 
kingdom,  and  the  Lord  has  promised  that. 

Now  today  we  are  here,  representatives  from  many  parts  of  the 
world.  We  come,  I  hope,  with  worship  in  our  hearts,  with  love  in  our 
hearts  for  our  fellow  men. 

The  second  great  commandment  which  was  equal  to  the  first, 
the  Master  said,  '  Love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself,"  is  the  key  word  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  if  I  may  use  that  term,  to  bring  us  near  to  the 
Lord,  loving  his  other  children  as  we  love  ourselves  and  so  doing 
desirous  of  bringing  to  them  the  knowledge  of  the  truth.    Today  in 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  4  First  Day 

this  house  that  was  dedicated  to  him,  builded  during  the  poverty  of 
the  people,  we  are  met  in  worship.  The  great  temple  to  the  east  of 
us,  one  of  the  beautiful  buildings  of  the  world,  was  erected  by  the 
people  when  they  lived  under  very  poor  conditions. 

I  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  during  the  last  one  hundred 
years  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  been  contributing  their  means  for 
homes  and  schools  and  houses  of  worship,  and  at  the  same  time  they 
have  sent  into  the  world  seventy  thousand  missionaries  who  have 
spent  their  own  money  and  contributed  their  time. 

Contribution  to  People  in  Distress 

Since  World  War  II  these  people,  living  in  these  valleys  where 
the  Church  is  organized  and  where  we  have  our  branches  and  wards 
and  stakes,  have  sent  one  hundred  carloads  of  bedding  and  food  and 
clothing  across  the  sea  to  help  those  poor  people  that  are  in  such 
distress. 

All  these  years  you  have  been  paying  your  tithing  if  you  have 
been  real  Latter-day  Saints.  What  has  been  done  with  it?  It  has  been 
developing  the  country  that  we  live  in  and  disseminating  the  truth  of 
God  in  the  nations  of  the  earth.  Your  tithing  has  not  been  squandered, 
and  if  you  have  paid  an  honest  tithing,  I  may  say  to  you  without 
hesitation  the  other  nine-tenths,  has  been  a  greater  blessing  to  those 
who  have  paid  than  the  one  hundred  percent  has  been  to  those  who 
have  not.  It  is  the  Lord's  work. 

Favorable  Position  of  Church  Members 

What  is  our  situation?  When  the  people  came  here,  we  were 
called  ignorant.  That  was  the  word  that  went  out.  I  had  a  man 
who  was  supposed  to  be  a  minister  tell  me  one  time:  "Why,"  he  said, 
"I  understand  you  are  the  most  ignorant  people  in  all  the  world."  That 
was  the  attitude.  What  is  the  record?  After  a  hundred  years,  this 
state,  the  home  of  the  largest  community  of  the  members  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  outranks  every  state  in  the 
American  Union  for  education.  More  high  school  students,  more 
university  students,  more  men  and  women  of  affairs,  and  more  scien- 
tists have  been  born  in  this  state  in  proportion  to  population,  of  course, 
than  in  any  other  state  of  the  Union.  You  may  go  where  you  will  and 
take  communities  such  as  we  have,  the  people  are  not  better  housed, 
not  better  fed,  not  better  educated,  any  other  place  in  the  world,  than 
here  in  the  tops  of  these  everlasting  hills  that  were  so  forbidding 
when  our  people  came  here. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  haven't  we  something  to  be  grateful 
for?  Isn't  it  wonderful,  not  only  to  be  here  with  this  great  organiza- 
tion but  to  know  that  we  are  here  by  the  will  of  the  Lord?  That  we 
are  here  because  he  has  made  it  possible  for  us  to  live  here?  And  so 
today  I  welcome  all  of  you  from  wherever  you  may  have  come  into 
this  great  congregation  and  the  adjoining  congregations  and  say,  to 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  17 


use  the  words  of  the  man  who  discovered  the  telegraph,  "See  what  God 
hath  wrought."  Men  couldn't  have  done  this.  With  all  your  gener- 
osity and  all  your  giving,  all  your  missionary  work,  with  your  care  of 
the  poor,  with  your  development  of  the  country,  with  all  that  you  have 
been  giving  as  ordinary  people,  I  testify  that  what  you  have  left  brings 
to  you  more  happiness,  more  peace,  more  comfort  and  more  assurance 
of  eternal  life  than  any  other  people  in  the  world  enjoy  today.  I 
don't  say  that  boastfully,  but  gratefully. 

Seventy-eighth  Birthday 

I  am  celebrating  my  birthday.  Seventy-eight  years  ago  today, 
right  across  the  street,  I  was  born.  My  life  has  been  spent  very 
largely  in  this  community  and  traveling  for  the  Church.  I  don't 
know  of  any  man  in  all  the  world  that  has  more  reason  to  be  grateful 
than  I.  People  have  been  kind  and  helpful  to  me,  members  of  the 
Church  and  non-members  alike.  Wherever  I  have  gone,  I  have 
found  noble  men  and  women.  Therefore  on  this  my  birthday,  after 
having  traveled  approximately  a  million  miles  in  the  world  in  the 
interests  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  one  of  the  frailest  of  my 
mother's  eleven  children,  I  testify  that  the  Lord  has  preserved  my 
life,  and  I  have  had  joy  beyond  expression,  and  I  have  enjoyed  the  re- 
sults of  loving  my  neighbor  as  myself,  and  all  this  brings  happiness. 

Testimony 

After  all  these  years  of  travel  in  many  parts  of  the  world,  associ- 
ating with  many  of  the  great  and  good  men  and  women  of  the  world, 
I  witness  to  you,  I  know  today  better  than  I  ever  knew  before  that 
God  lives;  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of 
the  Living  God;  and  that  the  Church  that  he  organized  under  the 
direction  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  the  Church  that  received  divine 
authority,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  the  Church 
that  was  driven  into  the  wilderness  and  with  headquarters  now  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  is  still  operating  under  the  guidance  of  the 
same  priesthood  that  was  conferred  by  Peter,  James,  and  John  upon 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery.  I  know  that,  as  I  know  that  I 
live,  and  I  leave  that  testimony  with  you,  and  I  pray  that  our  Heaven- 
ly Father  will  continue  to  guide  us  and  help  us  and  inspire  us  and 
bless  us,  which  he  will  if  we  are  righteous.  I  am  so  thankful  to  be  here 
with  you  this  morning,  and  to  look  into  your  faces,  hundreds  of  whom 
I  have  met  in  different  parts  of  the  country,  and  I  take  this  occasion 
to  thank  you  for  your  kindness  to  me  as  I  have  traveled  among  you. 

May  the  Lord  add  his  blessings.  Thankful  for  the  comforts 
that  we  have  today,  I  pray  that  his  peace  and  his  love  will  abide  with  us 
forever,  and  that  we  may  be  the  means  under  his  guidance  of  bringing 
millions  of  his  children  to  an  understanding  of  his  truths  that  they, 
too,  may  be  blessed  and  are  blessed  this  day.  This  is  my  testimony 
tp  you,  that  this  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  power  of  God  unto 


18  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  4  First  Day 

salvation  to  all  those  who  believe  and  obey  it,  and  I  bear  that  witness 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

President  Smith  has  given  us  a  brief  history  of  the  Church  and 
the  Latter-day  Saints  up  to  the  present  time.  We  are  on  the  road 
toward  perfection  but  we  haven't  reached  that  podnt  yet.  This 
house  is  filled  to  overflowing,  many  people  standing  for  want  of 
places  to  sit.  The  Assembly  Hall,  not  doubt,  is  filled  likewise  as  are 
other  places  where  the  Saints  are  gathered,  and  many  thousands  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  are  listening  in  their  own  homes  this  morning, 
I  am  sure. 

I  feel  greatly  honored  to  be  asked  to  speak  at  this  meeting  fol- 
lowing the  President.  I  feel  that  I  have  a  message  to  deliver  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  those  who  shall  hear  my  voice  and  others  who  may 
read  later  my  discourse.  If  only  the  Latter-day  Saints  hearing  what 
I  have  to  suggest,  the  counsel  and  advice  I  may  have  to  give,  would 
respond  to  the  same  I  would  be  one  of  the  happiest  men  alive.  It  is 
more  than  I  can  expect,  but  some  hearts,  I  hope,  will  be  touched. 
What  I  have  to  say,  the  subject  I  intend  to  speak  upon  to  me  is  a  vital 
subject  for  Latter-day  Saints. 

A  Gospel  of  Sacrifice 

For  God  so  loved  the  world,  that  he  gave  his  only  begotten  Son,  that 
whosoever  believeth  in  him  should  not  perish,  but  have  everlasting  life. 
(John  3:16.) 

In  this  we  see  the  sacrifice  made  for  us  by  the  Father  and  the 
Son,  the  greatest  ever  made — a  manifestation  of  love  with  which 
there  can  be  no  comparison. 

The  gospel  we  have  received  is  a  gospel  of  sacrifice  and  self 
denial  from  beginning  to  end. 
The  Lord  has  said: 

Let  no  man  be  afraid  to  lay  down  his  life  for  my  sake;  for  whoso 
layeth  down  his  life  for  my  sake  shall  find  it  again. 

And  whoso  is  not  willing  to  lay  down  his  life  for  my  sake  is  not  my 
disciple.    (D.  &  C.  103:27,  28.) 

The  Law  of  the  Tithe 

One  of  the  greatest  sacrifices  that  God  has  required  of  us  as 
members  of  his  Church  is  that  contained  in  the  law  of  the  tithe. 

On  July  8,  1838,  the  Lord  gave  to  the  Church  a  revelation  on 
the  subject  of  tithing,  in  which  he  requires  of  the  members  of  his 
Church  that  they  pay  one-tenth  of  all  their  interests  annually.  This 
is  the  revenue  law  of  the  Church.  It  is  used  in  promoting  its  financial 
interests;  in  the  Church  educational  system;  in  the  building  and  main- 
taining of  temples;  in  building  houses  of  worship  in  wards,  stakes,  and 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  19 


missions;  in  caring  for  the  poor;  and  in  the  missionary  work  of  the 
Church. 

Many  thousands  of  Latter-day  Saints  comply  faithfully  and  fully 
with  this  religious  obligation  and  by  so  doing  are  assisting  in  the  ac- 
complishments for  which  the  tithes  of  the  Church  are  used;  and  they 
will  in  no  wise  lose  their  reward. 

There  are  some  members  of  the  Church  who  might  profit  by  the 
experience  of  Ananias  and  his  wife,  Sapphira,  of  the  Primitive  Church, 
and  not  withhold  any  of  the  Lord's  portion. 

When  we  are  through  with  this  life  and  go  hence,  we  will  have 
no  means  with  which  to  balance  our  tithing  account.  Realizing  then 
our  dilemma,  we  may,  like  Dives  of  old,  desire  that  someone  be  sent 
from  the  dead  to  warn  those  we  love,  that  they  may  not  make  the 
same  mistake;  in  which  event  we  may  be  told: 

.  .  .  They  have  Moses  and  the  prophets;  let  them  hear  them.  (Luke 
16:29.) 

And  behold,  all  things  are  written  by  the  Father;  therefore  out  of  the 
books  which  shall  be  written  shall  the  world  be  judged.  (Ill  Nephi  27:26.) 

The  records  kept  by  the  Father  will  be  a  correct  and  true  record. 
They  will  show  what  we  should  have  paid  in  tithing  each  year,  and 
what  we  did  pay.  Any  difference  or  balance  will  show  our  true 
standing  on  the  observance  of  the  law  of  tithing. 

An  Accounting  of  Stewardship 

All  that  we  possess  of  this  world's  goods  has  been  given  to  us  of 
the  Lord,  and  we  are  to  be  regarded  as  but  stewards  over  what  we 
have  received.  We  will  have  to  give  an  accounting  for  our  steward- 
ship. In  view  of  what  the  Lord  has  done  for  us,  and  given  unto  us, 
it  is  a  small  thing  that  he  has  asked  of  us  in  return,  that  we  give  to  him 
one-tenth  of  what  he  has  given  to  us.  We  have  accepted  the  gospel 
as  a  gospel  of  sacrifice  and  self-abnegation.  The  Lord  has  said: 

And  whoso  is  not  willing  to  lay  down  his  life  for  my  sake  is  not  my 
disciple.    (D.  &  C.  103:28.) 

If  we  are  not  willing  to  lay  down  our  lives  for  Christ's  sake  and 
his  gospel's  sake,  we  may  not  hope  to  receive  the  salvation  which  is 
God's  greatest  gift  to  man,  and  for  which  we  have  enlisted  in  his 
cause  to  obtain.  The  Lord  knows  the  intents  of  the  hearts  of  the 
children  of  men.  He  knows  whether  or  not  we  are  willing  to  lay 
down  our  lives  for  the  cause  of  the  Master.  Is  it  possible  that  we  are 
willing  to  lay  down  our  lives  for  the  gospel's  sake,  and  that  we  are 
unwilling  to  give  to  the  Lord  and  his  cause,  on  direct  command  of  the 
Lord,  one-tenth  of  our  interests  annually  as  a  tithe?  Are  we  a  con- 
sistent people  with  respect  tot  the  tithe? 

Tithing  is  a  just  and  equitable  means  of  distribution  of  the  fi- 
nancial responsibilities  of  the  members  of  the  Church,  to  poor  and  rich 
alike.    In  any  organization  instituted  for  the  mutual  benefit  of  its 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


members,  each  member  is  expected  to  do  his  full  share  in  maintaining 
the  organization  and  assisting  in  its  accomplishments.  If  he  does  not 
faithfully  meet  his  obligations  in  that  organization,  he  is  justly  re- 
garded as  not  being  a  good  member.  We  would  not  like  to  be  regard- 
ed as  being  any  thing  other  than  a  good  member  of  the  Church. 


There  are  many  good  reasons  why  members  of  the  Church 
should  pay  their  tithing,  but  all  reasons  that  may  be  assigned  do  not 
have  the  same  appeal  to  all  members;  however,  the  fact  that  God  the 
Eternal  Father,  to  whom  we  are  indebted  for  all  things,  and  on  whom 
we  depend  for  all  things  we  hope  to  receive  in  this  life  and  in  the  life 
to  come,  has  asked  it  oif  us,  and  even  commanded  it  of  us,  should 
have  a  strong  appeal  to  all  members. 

If  thou  lovest  me  thou  shalt  serve  me  and  keep  all  my  commandments. 
(D.  &  C.  42:29.) 

He  that  receiveth  my  law  and  doeth  it,  the  same  is  my  disciple;  and 
he  that  saith  he  receiveth  it,  and  doeth  it  not,  the  same  is  not  my  disciple, 
and  shall  be  cast  out  from  among  you.    (D.  &  C.  41:5.) 

And  there  stood  one  among  them  that  was  like  unto  God,  and  he 
said  unto  those  who  were  with  him:  We  will  go  down,  for  there  is  space 
there,  and  we  will  take  of  these  materials,  and  we  will  make  an  earth 
whereon  these  may  dwell; 

And  we  will  prove  them  herewith,  to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things 
whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God  shall  command  them.    (Abraham  3:24-25.) 

But  he  that  doeth  not  anything  until  he  is  commanded,  and  receiveth 
a  commandment  with  doubtful  heart,  and  keepeth  it  with  slothfulness,  the 
same  is  damned.    (D.  &  C.  58:29.) 

...  be  faithful,  keep  my  commandments,  and  ye  shall  inherit  the  king- 
dom of  heaven.  (D.  6  C.  6:37.) 

Therefore,  if  any  man  shall  take  of  the  abundance  which  I  have  made 
and  impart  not  his  portion,  according  to  the  law  of  my  go'spd,  unto  the 
poor  and  needy,  he  shall,  with  the  wicked  lift  up  his  eyes  in  hell,  being 
in  torment.    (D.  &  C.  104:  18.) 


The  Church  is  accomplishing  wonders  today  with  the  tithes  and 
offerings  of  its  members.  A  more  wonderful  work  could  be  accom- 
plished, and  the  poor  of  the  Church  be  better  cared  for,  if  the  members 
were  all  to  pay  an  honest  tithe,  hence  our  appeal  at  this  time. 

Religionists  of  other  denominations  are  taking  cognizance  of  the 
way  the  law  of  the  tithe  is  being  observed  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  its  beneficial  effects  to  both  the 
Church  and  the  members  who  observe  to  keep  the  law. 

The  Deseret  News,  reporting  the  proceedings  of  the  annual 
Baptist  state  convention,  September  23,  1915,  said: 


Our  Indebtedness  to  God 


Accomplishments  of  Church 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  21 


A  feature  of  today  was  an  address  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  L.  S.  Bowerman, 
pastor  of  the  Immanuel  Baptist  Church  of  this  city,  on  "Tithing,  the 
Minimum  Basis  of  Giving."  He  strongly  advocated  the  ten  percent  tithing 
system,  as  it  obtains  in  the  Mormon  Church,  remarking,  incidentally, 
"We  ought  to  be  as  fully  religious  as  the  Mormons." 

"Since  the  days  of  Abraham,  a  thousand  years  before  Moses  was 
born,"  said  Dr.  Bowerman,  "the  tithing  system  was  inaugurated,  and  so 
took  the  precedence  of  the  Mosaic  Law."  The  speaker  traced  the  history 
of  the  tithing  system  through  the  Old  Testament  and  showed  its  endorse- 
ment in  the  New  Testament,  closing  his  address  by  showing  the  promises 
of  God  to  the  individual  and  the  nation  who  paid  tithing  to  his  service,  and 
for  his  cause,  that  they  should  prosper  in  the  land,  not  only  in  the  goods  of 
this  world,  but  as  recipients  of  spiritual  blessings.  Dr.  Bowerman's 
address  was  very  well  received  and  was  considered  one  of  the  most  schol- 
arly addresses  of  the  convention. 

While  the  Methodist  Church  has  not  adopted  the  tithing  system 
to  raise  funds  for  its  support,  the  plan  was  sanctioned  at  the  national  con- 
vention of  Methodists  in  Indianapolis,  according  to  the  Rev.  A.  M. 
Fisher  of  Pasadena,  California.  Mr.  Fisher  said  that  this  system  was 
right  and  successful  inasmuch  as  the  Church  now  employing  it  is  in  most 
satisfactory  financial  circumstances.  It  was,  he  states,  the  most  representa- 
tive gathering  ever  held  in  the  interest  of  the  Methodist  Church. 

Mormonism  is  having  a  reforming  influence  upon  the  religions 
of  the  world.  The  law  of  tithing  is  as  old,  as  just,  and  as  true,  as 
as  any  other  law  of  the  gospel. 

Obedience  Brings  Blessings 

The  nature  of  the  covenant  entered  into  in  the  waters  of  baptism 
is  that  we  will  keep  all  the  commandments  of  God,  one  of  which  is 
tithing. 

There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foundations 
of  this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated — 

And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to 
that  law  upon  which  it  is  predicated.    (D.  &  C.  130:20-21.) 

If  tithing  may  be  regarded  as  a  temporal  law,  then  the  observance 
of  the  law  of  tithing  should  bring  temporal  blessings.  We  have  prom- 
ise of  such  blessings  made  to  ancient  Israel. 

For  I  am  the  Lord,  I  change  not;  therefore  ye  sons  of  Jacob  are 
not  consumed. 

Even  from  the  days  of  your  fathers  ye  are  gone  away  from  mine 
ordinances,  and  have  not  kept  them.  Return  unto  me,  and  I  will  return 
unto  you,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts.  But  ye  said.  Wherein  shall  we  re<- 
turn? 

Will  a  man  rob  God?  Yet  ye  have  robbed  me.  But  ye  say,  Wherein 
have  we  robbed  thee?    In  tithes  and  offerings. 

Ye  are  cursed  with  a  curse:  for  ye  have  robbed  me,  even  this  whole 
nation. 

Bring  ye  all  the  tithes  into  the  storehouse,  that  there  may  be  meat  in 
mine  house,  and  prove  me  now  herewith,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will 
not  open  you  the  windows  of  heavens,  and  pour  you  out  a  blessing,  that 
there  shall  not  be  room  enough  to  receive  it.    (Malachi  3:6-10.) 

But  in  every  nation  he  that  feareth  him,  and  worketh  righteousness,  is 
accepted  with  him.    (Acts  10:34-35.) 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  4  First  Day 

The  promises  of  the  Lord  made  to  ancient  Israel  will  apply  alike 
to  all  nations  and  people  who  will  obey  his  laws  and  commandments. 

A  Worthy  Cause 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  destined  to 
bless  and  reform  the  whole  world.  It  is  intended  eventually  to  correct 
all  the  great  evils  of  society,  and  lift  mankind  to  a  higher  plane  of 
living  physically,  morally,  and  spiritually.  It  is  a  worthy  cause  in  which 
to  be  engaged,  and  for  which  to  spend  our  talents,  our  time,  and  our 
means.  It  is  the  greatest  reform  movement  of  the  age.  It  is  bound  to 
succeed,  for  it  is  founded  upon  true  and  correct  principles,  revealed 
anew  from  heaven. 

Those  who  give  aid  to  its  establishment,  its  growth,  and  its  ac- 
complishment, will  surely  share  in  the  honor  and  glory  of  such  a  noble 
cause. 

We  are  all  candidates  for  the  blessings  of  eternal  life  and  exalta- 
tion in  the  kingdom  of  God.  The  direct  line  toi  that  goal  is  through 
the  observance  of  the  law  of  tithing  and  making  every  sacrifice  the 
gospel  entails  upon  us.  May  God  help  us  to  this  end,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "We 
Thank  Thee,  Oi  God,  For  a  Prophet." 

ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  can  assure  you  that  standing  before 
you  makes  one  very  humble.  This  is  a  beautiful  Sabbath  morning, 
even  though  the  weather  is  a  little  stormy  outside.  It  would  be  impos- 
sible for  me,  I  am  sure,  to  say  anything  that  would  be  worth  while 
unless  the  Lord  will  bless  me. 

I  happen  to  have  a  son  who  belongs  to  one  of  those  four  thousand 
missionaries  who  are  in  the  mission  field.  I  received  a  telephone  call 
from  New  Brunswick  yesterday  where  he  is  laboring,  and  he  said: 
"Dad,  I  just  wanted  to  say  hello  to  you.  I  know  it's  general  conference 
in  Salt  Lake  this  week,  and  I  know  you're  worried.  I  can  assure  you 
that  I  am  praying  for  you." 

I  will  apprecate  it  if  I  can  have  an  interest  in  your  faith  and 
prayers,  also. 

"Take  My  Yoke  Upon  You" 

May  I  refer  to  Matthew  1 1 : 29-30? 

Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn  of  me;  for  I  am  meek  and  lowly 
in  heart:  and  ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your  souls. 
For  my  yoke  is  easy,  and  my  burden  is  light. 

We  will  have  rest  unto  our  souls  to  the  degree  that  we  can  serve 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


23 


our  Father  in  heaven.  Great  changes  have  come  into  the  souls  of  men 
as  they  draw  near  to  their  Father  in  heaven,  but  just  as  true,  when 
men  draw  away  from  their  Father  in  heaven,  they  have  a  restlessness 
that  disturbs  their  peace  of  mind.  That  beautiful  saying,  "If  you  will 
seek  after  me,  you  shall  surely  find  me,"  should  give  us  comfort  as 
members  of  the  Church.  The  living  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  way,  the  true  way  to  happiness. 
Says  the  Lord: 

Pray  always,  and  I  will  pour  out  my  Spirit  upon  you,  and  great 
shall  be  your  blessings.  .  .  .  (D.  &  C.  19:38.) 

Latter-day  Saints  are  staunch  believers  in  the  healing  virtue  of  prayer 
and  faith. 

And  the  elders  of  the  church,  two  or  more  shall  be  called,  and  shall 
pray  for  and  lay  hands  upon  them  [the  sick]  in  my  name.  .  .  .  (D.  &  C 
42:44.) 

Referring  to  James: 

Confess  your  faults  one  to  another,  and  pray  for  one  another,  that 
ye  may  be  healed  . .  .  (James  5:16.) 

Pray  to  the  Lord  in  prosperity;  pray  to  him  in  adversity. 

Strength  in  Unseen  Power 

There  is  an  unseen  power  in  every  man's  life  and  that  power 
comes  from  on  high.  It  is  the  power  that  will  help  man  rise  above  his 
own  natural  ability.  We  have  been  told  at  times  that  man  cannot 
rise  above  his  own  natural  ability,  and  I  am  sure  that  if  we  do  that, 
we've  done  pretty  well,  but  with  the  power  and  help  of  the  Lord,  men 
often  rise  far  beyond  their  own  natural  ability. 

I  quote  from  an  article  of  President  Clark's  recently,  wherein 
he  stated:  "God  has  placed  in  every  man's  heart  a  divine  spark  that 
never  wholly  goes  out."  That  spark  can  be  kindled,  that  spark  can 
be  developed  and  become  beautiful  with  service. 

There  was  recently  an  article  that  appeared  in  a  very  prominent 
Washington  paper  entitled,  "There  Must  be  a  Way  Out."  "This  was 
the  theme  for  thought  and  prayer.  There  must  be  a  way  of  convinc- 
ing the  Russians  that  we  do  not  want  war.  Yes,  but  no  one  has  found 
that  way  yet.  None  of  the  plans  of  men  have  worked."  But  there  is 
a  plan,  and  that  plan  is  embodied  in  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
if  only  men  could  understand  it  and  accept  it. 

It  is  always  fatal  for  any  person  or  any  nation  to  make  a  break  with 
the  Living  God. 

The  Way  to  Happiness 

I  want  to  bear  you  my  testimony  that  great  joy  comes  into  the 
souls  of  those  who  try  to  live  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I 
want  to  repent  of  my  wrongdoings  before  you  this  day  and  before 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


my  Maker.  I  want  to  tell  you  that  I  am  grateful  for  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord.  I  knoiw  that  it  will  do  our  hearts  good  to  try  to  live  a  little 
better  today  than  we  have  in  the  past.  That  is  our  plan  of  improve- 
ment. The  Lord  has  asked  us  to  come  unto  him  humbly  and  repent 
of  our  wrongdoings.   Therein  we  can  be  made  strong. 

If  I  have  wronged  any  man  or  woman,  if  they  will  let  me  know, 
I  will  do  my  best  to  right  that  wrong.  I  hold  no  malice  in  my  heart 
toward  any  man,  and  I  hope  no  man  will  hold  any  malice  toward  me. 
I  appreciate  the  blessings  that  come  in  serving  the  Lord.  I  pray  that 
he  will  help  me  to  do  my  best  to  serve  him  and  to  keep  his  command- 
ments. 

It  is  a  pleasure  to  know  the  brethren  with  whom  I  am  associated. 
I  can  bear  you  my  testimony  that  they  are  men  of  God,  trying  as  hard 
as  they  can  to  live  the  true  principles,  working  hard  day  and  night 
in  the  service  of  their  Father  in  heaven. 

For  a  number  of  years,  some  of  my  friends  have  said  that  I  was 
working  too  hard,  and  they  cautioned  me  to  take  it  a  little  easy,  but 
now  as  I  look  back  over  the  last  fifteen  years,  the  work  I  was  doing 
was  just  play  and  fooling  around  compared  with  the  work  that  I  have 
to  do  in  keeping  up  with  my  brethren  of  the  General  Authorities. 
I  hope  that  you  will  pray  for  us  as  we  pray  for  you. 


The  other  day  in  the  temple,  we  listened  to  all  the  mission  presi- 
dents bear  their  testimony  and  give  a  report  of  their  work,  and  my 
heart  was  touched  to  see  the  great  love  that  these  mission  presidents 
have  for  the  young  men  and  women  laboring  under  their  care  as  mis- 
sionaries. Oh,  as  fathers  and  mothers,  we  should  be  ever  grateful, 
indeed,  that  our  sons  and  daughters  can  go  into  the  mission  field  and 
labor  with  these  fine  mission  presidents  who  love  these  missionaries 
as  they  would  love  their  own  sons  and  daughters. 

May  God  bless  us  that  we  may  serve  him  and  keep  his  command- 
ments, that  we  may  follow  the  admonitions  that  the  President  of  the 
Church  gave  us  this  morning.  May  we  truly  love  each  other  and 
make  life  as  pleasant  as  we  can  for  those  who  are  unfortunate. 

May  God  bless  us  during  the  sessions  of  this  conference,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


It  is  an  awe-inspiring  sight  to  stand  here  this  morning  on  this 
beautiful  Sabbath  day  and  face  this  vast  audience.  I  humbly  pray 
that  the  Spirit  of  God  will  attend  me  and  direct  what  I  shall  say. 
During  the  few  moments  that  I  occupy,  it  is  my  desire  to  give  an  in- 
terpretation of  a  prophet  of  God,  with  special  emphasis  upon  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  am  always  thrilled  to  hear  that  beautiful  song, 
"We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet,"  that  was  sung  a  few  mo- 


Gratitude  for  Mission  Presidents 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


25 


ments  ago,  because  I  know  that  we  have  today  prophets  standing  at 
the  head  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Definition  of  a  Prophet 

If  I  were  to  ask  you  the  question,  "What  is  a  prophet  of  God?" 
it  is  probable  that  your  immediate  reply  would  be:  "A  prophet  of  God 
is  an  individual  who  through  divine  inspiration  or  revelation  predicts 
future  events."  You  may  even  quote  the  Apostle  Peter,  wherein  he 
said: 

For  the  prophecy  came  not  in  old  times  by  the  will  of  man:  but  holy 
men  of  God  spake  as  they  were  moved  by  the  Holy  Ghost.  (II  Peter 
1:21.) 

How  does  Joseph  Smith  compare  with  the  great  prophets  of  all 
ages  as  a  predictor  of  future  events?  When  we  consider  the  fact  that 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  is  filled  with  revelations  from  the  Lord 
to  the  Prophet  and  that  many  of  them  deal  with  future  events  which 
certainly  could  be  regarded  as  prophecies;  also1,  when  we  consider  the 
fact  that  other  scriptures  were  brought  forth  in  this  dispensation 
through  Joseph  and  that  they  contain  many  prophecies;  and  in  addi- 
tion to  this,  that  he  uttered  numerous  other  predictions,  we  are  forced 
to  conclude  that  few,  if  any,  prophets  who  ever  lived  have  made  more 
prophecies  than  did  Joseph  Smith.  I,  therefore,  would  rate  him  among 
the  greatest  of  all  the  prophets  as  a  predictor  of  future  events. 

We  should  also  keep  in  mind  the  fact  that  the  prophecies  of  true 
prophets  of  God,  uttered  as  a  result  of  divine  inspiration,  or  revelation, 
must  and  will  all  be  fulfilled.  In  fact,  in  the  holy  scriptures  we  are  told 
that  the  way  to  distinguish  between  true  and  false  prophets  is  whether 
or  not  their  predictions  come  to  pass.  To  quote  the  words  of  Deuter- 
onomy: 

And  if  thou  say  in  thine  heart,  How  shall  we  know  the  word  which 
the  Lord  hath  not  spoken? 

When  a  prophet  speaketh  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  if  the  thing  follow 
not,  nor  come  to  pass,  that  is  the  thing  which  the  Lord  hath  not  spoken, 
but  the  prophet  hath  spoken  it  presumptuously;  thou  shalt  not  be  afraid 
of  him.    (Deuteronomy  18:21-22.) 

Joseph  Smith  a  True  Prophet 

According  to  the  word  of  the  Lord,  Joseph  Smith  was  a  true 
prophet  because  the  prophecies  and' promises  revealed  to  him  "shall 
all  be  fulfilled."  In  this  respect  he  compares  very  favorably  with  any 
or  all  of  the  holy  prophets  of  old.  God  declared  in  his  preface  to  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  the  following : 

Search  these  commandments  for  they  are  true  and  faithful,  and  the 
prophecies  and  promises  which  are  in  them  shall  all  be  fulfilled.  (D.  6  C. 
1:37.) 

Let  us  consider  a  few  examples  of  prophecies  made  by  Joseph 
Smith  and  their  fulfilment.  When  but  a  boy  slightly  past  fourteen 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  i  First  Day 

years  of  age,  Joseph  returned  to  the  house  from  the  Sacred  Grove 
on  that  memorable  spring  morning  in  1820.  He  told  the  members  of 
his  family  that  he  had  seen  the  Eternal  Father  and  his  Only  Begotten 
Son  in  a  vision.  During  the  course  of  that  vision,  he  had  been  informed 
by  the  Savior  that  the  true  Church  was  not  upon  the  earth  (D.H.C. 
1 : 2-6 )  and  that  if  he  lived  a  worthy  life  he  was  given 

...  a  promise  that  the  fullness  of  the  gospel  should  at  some  future 
time  be  made  known  unto  [him]  me.  ("The  Wentworth  Letter,"  cited 
in  ibid.,  4:536.) 

Imagine  a  boy,  untrained  and  unschooled  as  far  as  earthly  school- 
ing is  concerned  and  at  such  a  tender  age,  making  such  a  prophecy. 
As  all  of  you  know,  this  prophecy  was  soon  fulfilled.  The  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  was  revealed  to  him,  and  he  did  establish  a  Church — 
the  Church  which  God  declared  to  be 

.  .  .  the  only  true  and  living  church  upon  the  face  of  the  whole  earth, 
with  which  I,  the  Lord,  am  well  pleased,  speaking  unto  the  church  collec- 
tively and  not  individually.    (D.  &  C.  1:30.) 

Name  Known  for  Good  and  Evil 

Three  and  one-half  years  later,  at  the  time  of  the  visitations  of 
the  angel  Moroni  to  Joseph  Smith,  he  made  another  prophecy  which 
I  believe  was  just  as  astounding  in  its  nature  as  was  the  prediction 
that  he  should  establish  the  "true  and  living  Church."  Joseph  said 
that  the  heavenly  messenger  had  told  him  that  he  would  receive  an 
ancient  record,  and  that  he  would  translate  it  and  publish  a  book. 
Also,  to  quote  Joseph's  own  words: 

.  .  .  that  my  name  should  be  had  [or  good  and  evil  among  all  nations, 
kindreds,  and  tongues,  or  that  it  should  be  both  good  and  evil  spoken 
among  all  people.   (D.H.C.  1:11-12;  italics  speaker's.) 

Imagine  an  obscure  frontier  youth  who  had  probably  no  more 
than  a  casual  acquaintance  with  perhaps  a  few  hundred  people  at  the 
most,  not  only  prophesying  that  he  would  translate  and  publish  a 
book  but  that  his  name  would  be  had  for  good  and  evil  among  all 
nations.  Again,  time  has  proved  Joseph  Smith  to  be  a  true  prophet  of 
God.  He  did  publish  that  book  under  the  title  of  the  Book  of  Mormon; 
and,  as  all  of  you  know,  it  has  for  more  than  a  century  baffled  thou- 
sands of  its  avowed  enemies. 

Almost  immediately  after  receiving  his  earliest  visitation  from 
heavenly  beings,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  began  to  be  persecuted 
for  the  claims  that  he  had  made.  Throughout  the  entire  course  of  his 
life  many  people  hated  him  to  the  point  of  trying  to  bring  about  his 
death.  This  fact  they  finally  accomplished  by  bringing  him  to  a  mar- 
tyr's grave.  As  early  as  1 834  the  first  of  almost  an  innumerable  pro- 
cession of  books,  written  by  evil  people  inspired  by  the  devil  for  the 
purpose  of  destroying  the  Prophet,  his  influence,  and  the  work  of  the 
Lord,  came  from  the  press.  Each  of  these  books  has  been  short-lived; 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER  27 

but  the  work  of  God  and  the  honor  and  glory  of  his  great  Prophet 
will  goi  on  unhampered  forever. 

On  the  other  hand,  throughout  Joseph's  lifetime  many  other  peo- 
ple loved  him  so  dearly  that  they  would  have  laid  down  their  lives 
willingly  for  him  if  necessary.  They  maintained  that  the  Holy  Ghost 
had  borne  positive  assurance  to  their  souls  of  Joseph's  divine  appoint- 
ment and  of  the  restoration  of  the  true  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Thus 
thousands  of  intelligent  converts  have  allied  themselves  with  the 
Prophet  Joseph  and  have  adhered  to  the  cause  of  Mormonism  in  the 
face  of  persecution,  poverty,  loss  of  homes  and  property,  and  even 
threats  of  martyrdom.  In  fact,  many  of  the  Saints  have  sacrificed 
their  lives  for  the  cause  of  righteousness. 

Joseph  Smith's  testimony  has  divided  the  world  into  two  camps. 
Whenever  he  is  being  considered,  there  is  no  neutral  ground  upon 
which  to  stand.  His  claims  are  so  vital  that  people  either  accept  them 
in  their  entirety  without  reservations  or  flaly  reject  them.  There  are 
individuals,  however,  who  are  completely  indifferent  to  his  claims, 
and  ofttimes  to  religion  in  general.  Those  individuals  must  be  classed 
with  the  group  that  reject  Joseph's  claims. 

Thus  throughout  the  entire  course  of  more  than  one  hundred 
years,  this  prediction  uttered  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  is, 
that  his  name  should  be  known  "/or  good  and  evil  among  all  nations, 
kindreds,  and  tongues,"  has  been  continuously  fulfilled. 

Revelation  Given  in  Missouri  Jail 

In  the  spring  of  1 839,  after  the  Prophet  had  spent  several  months 
lying  in  a  dungeon  in  a  Missouri  jail,  the  voice  of  God  came  unto  him 
saying: 

My  son,  peace  be  unto  thy  soul;  thine  adversity  and  thine  afflictions 
shall  be  but  a  small  moment; 

And  then,  if  thou  endure  it  well,  God  shall  exalt  thee  on  high;  thou 
shalt  triumph  over  all  thy  foes. 

And  they  who  do  charge  thee  with  transgression,  their  hope  shall  be 
blasted,  and  their  prospects  shall  melt  away  as  the  hoar  frost  melteth  be- 
fore the  burning  rays  of  the  rising  sun; 

Cursed  are  all  those  that  shall  lift  up  the  heel  against  mine  anointed, 
saith  the  Lord  ...  (D.  &  C.  121:7,  8,  11,  16.) 

The  ends  of  the  earth  shall  inquire  after  thy  name,  and  fools  shall 
have  thee  in  derision,  and  hell  shall  rage  against  thee; 

While  the  pure  in  heart,  and  the  wise,  and  the  noble,  and  the  virtuous, 
shall  seek  counsel,  and  blessings  constantly  from  under  thy  hand. 

And  thy  people  shall  never  be  turned  against  thee  by  the  testimony 
of  traitors. 

.  .  .  Thy  days  are  known,  and  thy  years  shall  not  be  numbered  less; 
therefore,  fear  not  what  men  can  do,  for  God  shall  be  with  you  forever 
and  ever.     (Ibid.,  122:1-3,9.) 

Predictions  Fulfilled 

Such  predictions  as  the  Civil  War  prophecy,  the  Stephen  A. 
Douglas  prophecy,  the  Rocky  Mountain  prophecy  referred  to  by  the 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  4  First  Day 

President  of  the  Church  this  morning,  and  numerous  other  predictions 
and  their  fulfilment  could  be  cited  to  show  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
truly  a  great  prophet  of  God.  Evidence  impels  us  to  rank  this  man  of 
God  as  one  of  the  greatest  prophets  that  have  ever  lived.  In  fact,  in  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  we  read: 

Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet  and  Seer  of  the  Lord,  has  done  more,  save 
Jesus  only,  for  the  salvation  of  men  in  this  world,  than  any  other  man  that 
ever  lived  in  it.  (Ibid.,  135:3.) 

The  Calling  of  Prophets 

Another  distinctive  characteristic  of  a  prophet  of  God  is  that  he 
is  chosen,  appointed,  and  called  by  the  Lord.  He  draws  his  knowledge 
from  the  divine  fountain  of  truth;  therefore,  he  speaks  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  and  as  one  having  authority.  Let  us  give  a  few  examples. 
The  Prophet  Amos,  in  his  masterful  discourse  at  Bethel,  prefaced 
each  of  his  predictions  by  "Thus  saith  the  Lord."  (Amos  1:3,  6,  9, 
11,  1 3;  2 : 1 ,  4,  6. )  Isaiah  relates  his  call  to  be  a  prophet  as  follows : 

...  I  saw  also  the  Lord  sitting  upon  a  throne,  high  and  lifted  up,  and 
his  train  filled  the  temple. 

Also  I  heard  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  saying,  Whom  shall  I  send,  and 
who  will  go  for  us?   Then  said  I,  Here  I  am;  send  me. 

And  he  said,  Go,  and  tell  this  people.     (Isaiah  6:1,  8-9.) 

The  call  of  Jeremiah  to  be  a  prophet  illustrates  beautifully  the 
fact  that  prophets  are  chosen,  appointed,  and  called  by  the  Lord.  To 
use  Jeremiah's  own  words: 

Then  the  word  of  the  Lord  came  unto  me,  saying, 

Before  I  formed  thee  in  the  belly  I  knew  thee;  and  before  thou  earnest 

forth  out  of  the  womb  I  sanctified  thee,  and  I  ordained  thee  a  prophet  unto 

the  nations. 

Then  said  I,  Ah,  Lord  God!  behold,  I  cannot  speak  for  I  am  a  child. 

But  the  Lord  said  unto  me,  Say  not,  I  am  a  child;  for  thou  shalt  go  to 
all  that  I  shall  send  thee,  and  whatsoever  I  command  thee  thou  shalt 
speak. 

Then  the  Lord  put  forth  his  hand,  and  touched  my  mouth.  And  the 
Lord  said  unto  me,  Behold,  I  have  put  my  words  in  thy  mouth.  (Jeremiah 
1:4-7,  9.) 

In  the  book  of  Moses  we  read  about  Enoch's  call  to  be  a  prophet 
as  follows: 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  Enoch  journeyed  in  the  land,  among  the 
people;  and  as  he  journeyed  .  .  . 

...  he  heard  a  voice  from  heaven,  saying :  Enoch,  my  son,  prophesy 
unto  this  people.    (Moses  6:26-27.) 

In  addition  to  being  called  of  the  Lord,  true  prophets  teach  the 
people  what  the  Lord  commands  them.  Jesus  Christ,  the  greatest  of 
all  the  prophets,  declared: 

For  I  have  not  spoken  of  myself;  but  the  Father  which  sent  me,  he 
gave  me  a  commandment,  what  I  should  say,  and  what  I  should  speak. 

And  I  know  that  his  commandment  is  life  everlasting:  whatsoever  I 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER  29 

speak  therefore,  even  as  the  Father  said  unto  me,  so  I  speak.    (John  12:49- 
50.) 

Throughout  history  many  of  the  great  prophets  have  been  visited 
by  holy  angels  and  some  of  them  have  seen  God  and  have  conversed 
with  him  as  one  man  converses  with  another.  For  example,  we  read 
in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price: 

And  I,  the  Lord  God,  said  unto  Adam,    (Moses  4:17.) 

Again  we  read: 

And  I,  the  Lord  God,  spake  unto  Moses,   (Ibid.,  4:1.) 

And  he  saw  God  face  to  face,  and  he  talked  with  him,  and  the 
glory  of  God  was  upon  Moses;  therefore1  Moses  could  endure  his  presence. 
(Ibid.,  1:2.) 

Abraham  wrote : 

Thus  I,  Abraham,  talked  with  the  Lord,  face  to  face,  as  one  man 
talketh  with  another.    (Abraham  3:11.) 

Referring  to  the  Prophet  Alma,  Amulek  said: 

As  I  was  journeying  to  see  a  very  near  kindred,  behold  an  angel  of 
the  Lord  appeared  unto  me  and  said:  Amulek,  return  to  thine  own  house, 
for  thou  shalt  feed  a  prophet  of  the  Lord;  yea,  a  holy  man,  who  is  chosen 
man  of  God.    (Alma  10:7.) 

"Thus  Saith  the  Lord" 

After  the  death  of  the  Savior  and  his  apostles,  the  heavens 
were  closed,  and  for  many  centuries  God  ceased  to  appoint  holy 
prophets  among  men.  Finally,  as  I  have  already  stated,  a  living 
oracle  was  sent  to  earth  again  in  the  person  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  The  Eternal  Father,  his  Only  Begotten  Son,  and  numerous 
holy  angels  talked  with  Joseph  face  to  face,  even  as  they  had  done 
with  the  prophets  of  old.  Thus  the  word,  the  will,  and  the  command- 
ments of  God  came  from  heaven  to  mortals  again  in  exactly  the  same 
manner  as  they  had  come  in  past  ages.  At  the  beginning  of  the 
majority  of  the  revelations  received  by  the  Prophet  Joseph,  such 
statements  as  the  following  appear: 

Hearken  unto  the  voice  of  the  Lord  your  God,  while  I  speak  unto 
you.    (D.  SC.  25:1.) 

And  again: 

Listen  to  the  voice  of  Jesus  Christ,  your  Lord,  your  God  and  your 
Redeemer.    (Ibid.,  27:1;  see  also  29:1.) 

Also: 

Thus  saith  the  Lord  God,  the  Mighty  One  of  Israel.     (Ibid.,  36:1.) 

As  an  example  of  the  numerous  visions  of  heavenly  beings  that 
Joseph  beheld,  I  quote  the  following : 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  4  Pint  Dag 

And  we  beheld  the  glory  of  the  Son,  on  the  right  hand  of  the  Father, 
and  received  of  his  fulness; 

And  saw  the  holy  angels,  and  them  who  are  sanctified  before  his 
throne,  worshiping  God,  and  the  Lamb,  who  worship  him  forever  and 
ever.  (Ibid.,  76:20-21.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  like  all  the  holy  prophets  who  pre- 
ceded him,  always  prefaced  his  teachings  with  the  divine  dictum  of 
"Thus  saith  the  Lord."  Truly  of  him  it  can  be  said  as  it  was  said  of 
the  Man  of  Galilee,  ".  .  .  Never  man  spake  like  this  man."  (John 
7:46.)  Since  Joseph  Smith  received  what  he  gave  to  the  people 
directly  from  Jesus  Christ,  such  should  be  the  case. 

The  Lord  declared  in  modern  revelation  that  the  words  spoken 
by  prophets  when  they  were  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost  should  be 
considered  as  scripture.   To  quote: 

And  whatsoever  they  shall  speak  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy 
Ghost  shall  be  scripture,  shall  be  the  will  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  mind 
of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  word  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  voice1  of  the  Lord, 
and  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.    (D.  &  C.  68:4.) 

Living  Oracles 

I  wish  to  emphasize  the  fact  that  this  revelation  is  not  limited 
to  Joseph  Smith  and  the  other  great  prophets  who  preceded  him.  We 
have  standing  at  the  head  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  today  living  oracles  through  whom  God  reveals  his  will.  Cer- 
tainly the  words  of  this  revelation  apply  to  President  George  Albert 
Smith,  to  his  Counselors,  to  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  to  the  Patriarch 
to  the  Church  just  as  much  as  they  did  to  Joseph  Smith,  or  to  Isaiah, 
Jeremiah,  Moses,  Nephi,  Alma,  Peter,  Paul,  or  to  all  of  the  other 
ancient  prophets  of  God. 

A  Teacher  of  Divine  Truths 

The  greatest  job  that  a  prophet  has  to  accomplish  is  to  be  a 
teacher  of  the  divine  truths  revealed  to  him  from  on  high.  He  is  to  be 
God's  mouthpiece  here  on  earth — God's  spokesman,  the  revelator  of 
the  plan  of  salvation.  Through  the  keys  and  power  of  the  priesthood 
which  he  holds,  the  kingdom  of  God  is  established  upon  earth  and 
all  the  ordinances  requisite  for  the  salvation  and  exaltation  of  the 
human  family  are  performed.  It  is  in  their  capacity  of  teacher  and 
dispenser  of  the  mind  and  will  of  God  that  the  holy  prophets  in  all 
ages  have  made  their  greatest  contributions.  During  his  three  short 
years  of  missionary  service,  Jesus  Christ  did  more  to  affect  the  destiny 
of  the  human  family  than  have  all  the  kings  that  ever  sat  upon  thrones 
or  all  the  armies  that  ever  marched.  Moses'  great  contribution  was  in 
giving  Israel  the  law.  Nephi,  Paul,  Alma,  and  the  other  prophets 
perpetuated  the  true  Church  in  their  times.  And  Joseph  Smith  was 
the  prophet  of  God  who  was  called  and  foreordained  to  usher  in  the 
last  dispensation  of  the  gospel,  the  greatest  of  the  dispensations.  ( II 
Nephi,  chapter  3. ) 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER  31 


When  we  consider  the  three  volumes  of  scripture  given  to  the 
world  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  when  we  consider  that 
all  the  knowledge,  powers,  keys,  doctrines,  and  ordinances  that 
had  ever  been  given  to  the  prophets  from  the  time  of  Adam  to  the 
present  day  were  restored  to  him,  then  we  can  fully  realize  that 

{oseph  certainly  was  one  of  the  greatest  prophets  that  ever  lived, 
make  the  claim  that  he  was  the  greatest  of  the  prophets  except 
Jesus  Christ. 

Love  of  Fellowmen 

Finally,  a  prophet  of  God  loves  his  fellow  men  intensely,  even 
to  the  point  of  giving  his  life  willingly  for  them  if  necessary.  Before 
the  death  of  the  Savior,  he  had  full  knowledge  that  the  Jews  had  re- 
jected him  and  that  they  would  bring  about  his  crucifixion.  Yet,  as  he 
sat  upon  a  hill  overlooking  Jerusalem  a  few  days  prior  to  his  death, 
he  prophesied  to  his  apostles  regarding  the  destruction  of  the  holy 
city  and  the  scattering  of  his  people  because  they  had  rejected  their 
Lord  and  Savior.  So  intense  was  his  love  for  those  who  had  become 
his  enemies  that  "Jesus  wept."   He  had  taught  the  people: 

.  .  .  Love  your  enemies,  bless  them  that  curse  you,  do  good  to  them 
that  hate  you,  and  pray  for  them  which  despitefully  use  you,  and  persecute 
you.    (Matt  5:44.) 

While  hanging  on  the  cross  he  put  those  teachings  into  effect. 
He  looked  down  upon  the  jeering  mob  standing  at  the  foot  of  the 
cross  and  then,  casting  his  eyes  toward  heaven,  prayed : 

. . .  Father,  forgive  them,  for  they  know  not  what  they  do.    (Luke  23: 

34.) 

So  it  was  with  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  When  he,  Hyrum 
and  others  were  making  plans  to  flee  to  the  Rocky  Mountains  for 
safety,  Emma  sent  word  for  Joseph  to  return  because  the  Saints  were 
accusing  him  of  being  a  coward.  Knowing  full  well  that  they  would 
be  killed  if  they  should  return,  he  turned  to  his  brother  Hyrum  and 
said:  "If  my  life  is  of  no  value  to  my  friends  it  is  of  none  to  myself," 
(D.H.C.  6:549)  and  so  they  returned  to  Nauvoo.  It  was  his  deep 
love  for  the  Saints  that  impelled  him  to  return  and  voluntarily  to  give 
his  life  as  a  sacrifice  for  them.  The  following  day  while  on  their 
way  from  Nauvoo  to  Carthage,  Joseph  made  this  memorable  state- 
ment: 

I  am  going  like  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter,  but  I  am  as  calm  as  a  sum- 
mer's morning.  I  have  a  conscience  void  of  offense  toward  God  and  to- 
ward all  men.  If  they  take  my  life  I  shall  die  an  innocent  man,  and  my 
blood  shall  cry  from  the  ground  for  vengeance,  and  it  shall  be  said  of  me, 
"He  was  murdered  in  cold  blood!"    (Ibid.,  555.) 

Testimony  Sealed  with  Blood 

Three  days  later  the  assassins'  bullets  found  lodgment  in  the 
body  of  the  Prophet  of  God.  As  he  fell  from  the  windows  of  Carth- 
age jail,  he  died  with  the  words  on  his  lips,  "O  Lord,  my  God!" 


32  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  4  First  Day 

He  began  his  career  as  a  prophet  with  the  glorious  vision  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son  and  ended  his  earthly  career  with  the  name  of 
Deity  on  his  lips.  As  did  the  Savior  of  the  world,  he  sealed  his  testi- 
mony with  his  blood.  Regarding  Joseph's  death,  God  revealed  to 
Brigham  Young  the  following: 

Many  have  marveled  because  of  his  death;  but  it  was  needful  that 
he  should  seal  his  testimony  with  his  blood,  that  he  might  be  honored 
and  the  wicked  might  be  condemned.    (D.  &  C.  136:39.) 

And  like  all  of  the  great  and  holy  prophets  of  old,  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  being  dead,  yet  lives  on  forever.   Today  a  million  people  sing: 

Hail  to  the  Prophet,  ascended  to  heaven! 
Traitors  and  tyrants  now  fight  him  in  vain; 
Mingling  with  Gods,  he  can  plan  for  his  brethren; 
Death  cannot  conquer  the  hero  again. 

From  the  bottom  of  my  heart  I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  that 
I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  one  of  the  greatest  prophets  that  ever 
lived  upon  this  earth.  May  the  Spirit  of  God  be  with  you  and  me 
that  we  might  live  according  to  the  teachings  that  he  gave  us,  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

President  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  has 
just  addressed  us.  It  may  be  interesting  to  some  of  you,  because 
of  the  fact  that  he  has  spoken  of  the  Prophet,  to  know  that  one  of 
the  Prophet's  descendants,  a  great  granddaughter,  is  visiting  here 
today.  Her  home  is  in  the  East.  We  are  glad  to  have  her  with 
us. 

The  next  speaker  will  be  Elder  Graham  H.  Doxey,  former 
president  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission. 

ELDER  GRAHAM  H.  DOXEY 

Former  President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  very  sincerely  hope  that  you  can't 
hear  by  heart  beat  but  that  you  can  hear  my  words,  for  I  do  want 
to  affirm  to  you  my  testimony  of  this  gospel. 

When  the  Presidency  called  Sister  Doxey  and  me  to  the 
office  to  be  interviewed  regarding  the  mission  and  we  were  told 
that  we  were  called  to  preside  over  the  East  Central  States  Mis- 
sion, I  didn't  know  where  that  was.  So  it  may  be  interesting  to 
you  to  know  the  East  Central'  States  Mission  includes  the  very 
wonderful  states  of  Kentucky,  Tennessee,  North  Carolina,  Vir- 
ginia and  West  Virginia,  or  it  did  include  those  states.  I  have 
the  unique  experience  of  reporting  on  the  East  Central  States 
Mission  and  yet  actually  reporting  upon  two  missions,  for  recently 


ELDER  GRAHAM  H.  DOXEY 


33 


that  mission  has  been  divided  and  now  is  the  East  Central  States 
Mission  and  the  Central  Atlantic  States  Mission. 

One  of  the  great  blessings  that  came  to  us  as  missionaries 
was  the  privilege  of  getting  out  of  the  world  of  competition,  the 
business  world,  and  getting  close  to  the  Lord,  feeling  the  spirit 
and  inspiration  of  his  direction  in  the  work  we  did.  It  was  a  great 
blessing  to  associate  with  the  missionaries  and  though  we  didn't 
have  many  young  elders  during  the  war  years,  we  had  a  number 
of  young  ladies  who  took  their  places  and  did  a  wonderful  work. 
We  have  been  told  many  times  that  it  seems  rather  futile  to  go  out 
and  spend  two  years  attempting  to  convert  someone  to  the  Church, 
or  bring  the  message  of  the  gospel  to  them,  and  yet  see  no  results 
of  your  labors.  Because  of  the  war  and  the  fact  that  we  had  many 
older  men  come  back  to  the  mission  who  had  served  in  that  area, 
forty  or  fifty  years  before,  we  had  opportunity  to  discover  that 
the  Church  is  growing  and  growing  solidly.  In  that  fine  section 
of  this  great  land  one  elder  told  me  that  fifty  years  ago  he  traveled 
over  the  whole  state  of  Virginia  and  there  was  not  a  branch  of 
the  Church  in  it.  Today  we  have  probably  twenty  or  twenty-five 
organized  branches  of  the  Church  there  with  many  chapels,  and 
the  same  applies  to  the  other  states,  so  that  the  vitality  of  this 
Church  is  evident  in  the  testimony  of  the  people  who  were  con- 
verted by  these  early  missionaries  and  those  who  followed  them. 

We  held  a  conference  in  one  of  the  little  branches  of  the 
Church  in  the  Blue  Ridge  Mountains  of  Virginia  and  the  members 
came  from  the  nearby  hills,  and  villages,  and  from  their  farms  to 
attend  the  conference.  The  importance  of  being  enthusiastically 
engaged  in  the  work  contained  in  the  Lord's  challenge  to  us  in  the 
fifty-eighth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  was  pointedly 
brought  to  my  mind.  At  that  conference  we  had  about  seventy- 
five  members  of  the  Church  and  when  I  asked  those  who  were 
kinsfolk  of  Granny  Rowland,  converted  forty  years  ago,  to  stand 
up,  fifty-seven  of  that  seventy-five  were  her  kinsfolk  and  be- 
sides that  fifty-seven,  there  are  other  members  who  came  to  the  West, 
and  there  are  members  in  New  York  State  and  in  other  parts  of  Vir- 
ginia who  didn't  attend  the  Conference.  This  shows  the  importance 
of  being  enthusiastically  engaged  in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  The  elder 
who  was  instrumental  in  bringing  the  message  of  the  restoration 
of  the  gospel  to  this  good  lady  forty  years  ago  little  realized  that 
that  message  would  be  vital  enough  to  bring  about  a  membership 
sufficiently  large  in  a  generation,  to  make  a  branch  of  the  Church. 

We  were  very  pointedly  aware  of  the  change  in  the  attitude 
of  the  people  in  regard  to  the  missionary  work  and  in  regard  to  the 
Church.  President  Smith  has  done  so  very  much  to  bring  friends 
to  the  Church.  We  met  men  with  whom  he  had  acquaintance, 
important  and  influential  men  who  were  friendly  to  us  and  invited 
us  into  their  homes  and  into  their  offices  and  always  spoke  highly 
and  very  enthusiastically  about  the  Church  and  its  membership. 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  4  First  Dag 

We  were  surprised,  one  time,  to  receive  an  invitation  from;  the 
minister  in  charge  of  St.  John's  Episcopal  Church  in  Richmond, 
Virginia,  where  the  great  principle  of  freedom  was  announced  for 
all  time  by  Patrick  Henry  when  he  said,  "Give  me  liberty  or  give 
me  death."  The  minister  of  that  church  invited  our  branch  in 
Richmond,  Virginia,  to  come  to  his  church  and  take  over  a  meeting, 
preach  the  gospel,  our  gospel,  and  sing  our  songs  to  his  congrega- 
tion or  to  whomever  would  come  to  his  church  that  evening,  We 
did,  and  our  little  branch  choir  sang  the  songs  of  the  Church  and 
the  message  of  the  gospel  was  given.  After  we  finished  this 
minister  stood  up  and  said:  "Will  you  sing  'Come  Come  Ye 
Saints'?  I  heard  that  sung  in  the  west,  one  time,  and  it  impressed 
me  very  much."  That  is  only  indicative  and  suggestive  of  the 
attitude  of  many  important  and  influential  people  regarding  our 
Church  and  its  work. 

Those  southern  people  are  hospitable  people.  They  are  gener- 
ous; they  are  humble,  and  certainly  they  are  prayerful.  It  is  not  an  un- 
common sight  Sunday  mornings  to  see  men  and  women  with  their 
sons  and  daughters  walking  to  Church  with  a  Bible  under  their 
arms.  It  impressed  me  and  brings  to  me  the  feeling  that  in  those 
states  where  the  people  are  prayerful  and  humble  this  Church  will 
have  not  only  great  branches  and  missions  but  also  stakes  of  Zion 
and  they  are  already  being  organized. 

One  of  the  most  wonderful  privileges  of  a  mission  president's 
life  is  to  come  into  the  hearts  of  the  members  of  the  Church,  whose 
vital  testimony  of  the  gospel  and  whose  great  humility  bring  to 
you  the  strength  and  the  promotion  of  your  faith,  and  along  with 
this  to  have  the  opportunity  of  loving  and  fathering  the  mission- 
aries who  come  out  into  the  mission. 

We  had  a  strange  experience.  One  elder  who  was  coming 
back  for  the  second  time,  seventy-two  years  old,  said  that  fifty 
years  before,  his  father  had  been  a  missionary  in  that  section  of 
North  Carolina,  that  he  preached  the  gospel  to  a  man  who,  as  a 
young  boy,  was  in  a  home  when  a  cottage  meeting  was  being  held. 
Then  over  fifty  years  later  the  son  had  come  back  as  a  short-term 
missionary,  just  two  or  three  years  ago,  and  had  met  this  man  in  his 
tracting,  had  been  invited  in  and  after  a  short  time  this  man  said, 
"I  knew  the  gospel  was  true  when  your  father  preached  it  over 
fifty  years  ago,  and  I  want  to  be  baptized  into  the  Church."  That 
power  of  the  gospel  was  a  great  blessing  to  us.  One  interesting 
thing  to  me  was  that  when  the  elder  was  telling  about  this  in  a 
conference  he  announced  that  although  he  was  in  his  seventies 
Sister  Doxey  and  I  seemed  to  him  like  his  real  father  and  mother, 
and  so  we  really  felt  the  blessing  and  advantage  of  getting  into  the 
hearts  of  the  young  people  as  well  as  the  old  people  who  were 
still  young  in  heart. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  do  want  you  to  know  that  this 
has  been  a  great  and  rich  spiritual  experience  for  us.    I  could  ask 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  35 


and  wish  for  no  greater  blessing  to  come  to  any  man  and  his  good 
wife  and  children  than  to  have  the  privilege  of  going  into  the  mission 
field  together.  The  Lord  blessed  us  and  I  believe  the  work  develop- 
ed and  is  developing  and  prospering  and  going  forward. 

The  report  last  night  in  the  missionary  reunion  of  the  many 
chapels  that  have  now  been  contracted  for  and  will  soon  be  erected 
in  that  mission  is  indicative  of  the  strength  and  the  power  and 
vitality  of  the  Church  in  that  section. 

I  have  a  testimony  that  this  is  the  Lord's  work  and  these  good 
men,  whose  kindly  attitude  and  expressions  of  love  and  desire  to 
serve  so  warm  us  and  strengthen  us,  are  a  power  and  blessing  to 
mankind.  To  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  your  work  and  your 
strength  and  your  sincerity  are  a  blessing  to  me  and  to  those  with 
whom  you  come  in  contact.  May  we  all  remember  that  it  is  im- 
portant to  live  this  gospel  for  its  example  is  vital. 

I  received  a  letter  not  long  before  I  left,  from  a  woman  in 
Tennessee  who  said,  "I  want  you  to  take  my  name  from  the  rec- 
ords of  the  Church.  I  recently  made  a  trip  to  Utah  and  the 
attitude  of  the  people  with  whom  I  came  in  contact  assured  me 
that  it  was  not  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ."  Now,  that  is  a 
challenge  to  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  within  our  lives  and 
within  our  daily  walks,  without  actually  preaching  the  gospel,  we 
have  an  opportunity  to  be  a  blessing  by  our  example  to  these 
people  coming  in  our  midst,  or  on  the  other  hand  to  destroy  their 
faith.  I  pray  that  we  may  all  be  strong  in  our  testimonies  and  bless 
the  Lord  for  the  great  things  we  have  had  in  this  day,  and  I  ask 
it  humbly  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

We  are  drawing  to  a  close  of  this  meeting.  The  Tabernacle 
Choir  will  sing;  "Achieved  is  the  Glorious  Work" — from  "The 
Creation,"  by  Haydn. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Adiel  F. 
Stewart  of  the  Temple  View  Stake,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  after 
which  this  conference  will  stand  adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this 
afternoon. 

This  afternoon  the  audience  should  be  in  their  seats  not  later 
than  ten  minutes  before  the  hour  for  commencing  the  meeting. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  has  been  furnished  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  with  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting  and 
Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 


Singing  by  the  Choir:  "Achieved  is  the  Glorious  Work." 
President  Adiel  F.  Stewart,  of  the  Temple  View  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


36 

Sunday.  April  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  2:00  p.m.,  Sunday,  April  4th. 

Again  the  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity,  the  Assembly 
Hall  was  filled  with  people,  who  listened  to  the  services  by  means 
of  amplifying  equipment  and  could  see  the  speakers  and  the  singers 
by  television.  Hundreds  of  others  assembled  on  the  grounds  and 
listened  by  means  of  amplifiers. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

This  is  the  second  session  of  the  118th  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  at  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon  all  of  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church  except  Elder  Stephen  L  Rich- 
ards, who  is  touring  the  South  American  missions,  Elder  Matthew 
Cowley,  who  is  presiding  over  the  Pacific  missions,  Elder  Thomas 
E.  McKay,  who  is  convalescing  from  a  slight  illness,  and  Elder 
Alma  Sonne  who  is  in  Europe  in  charge  of  the  European  missions. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL 
at  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangements  through  KSL,  over  the 
following  stations:  KDSH  at  Boise,  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KID  at 
Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at  Pbcatello,  KSVC  at  Richifeld,  KJAM  at 
Vernal,  and  over  KTYL  at  Mesa  by  transcription. 

Any  important  messages  and  calls  that  come  to  us  for  persons 
supposed  to  be  in  attendance  at  the  conference  will  be  announced 
at  the  dismissal  of  this  meeting  over  the  loud  speaking  system  on 
the  grounds.  Everyone  would  do  well  to  listen  carefully  to  such 
announcements. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  will  be  rendered  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting  and 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  this  afternoon's  services  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  singing:  "How  Beautiful  Are  the  Feet  of  Them  That 
Bringeth  Glad  Tidings,"  from  "The  Messiah,"  by  Handel. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Henry  D. 
Taylor,  of  the  Sharon  Stake,  Orem,  Utah. 


The  Choir  sang:  "How  Beautiful  are  the  Feet  of  Them  that 
Bringeth  Glad  Tidings." 

President  Henry  D.  Taylor,  of  the  Sharon  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG  37 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

There  are  hundreds  of  people  standing.  If  those  who  arc 
fairly  comfortable  would  like  to  be  more  comfortable,  if  they  will 
move  closer  together  and  make  room  for  about  a  hundred  to  sit 
down,  I  am  sure  we  will  all  be  happy. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus  sang:  "Sound  An  Alarm," 
— from  "Judas  Maccabaeus,"  by  Handel. 

ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

This  is  a  very  overwhelming  sight,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
and  is  a  position  that  I  dread  very  much.  I  sincerely  trust  that  I 
may  have  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers  the  few  moments 
that  I  stand  before  you  this  afternoon. 

The  Uplift  of  Worship 

I  want  to  express  my  appreciation  for  the  privilege  of  being 
here  in  this  great  assembly.  It  is  certainly  a  Sabbath  day  feast 
to  come  and  attend  these  three  days  of  general  conference.  It  does 
something  for  our  souls.  You  know  in  our  agricultural  pur- 
suits Brother  Widtsoe  will  tell  us  of  the  need  of  fallowing  our  land, 
permitting  it  to  rest,  that  it  might  be  recharged  and  revitalized.  We 
come  together  for  that  purpose  in  these  conference  sessions,  that 
we  too  might  be  revitalized  and  recharged,  and  verily  these  con- 
ference sessions  give  us  the  rest  and  peace  of  a  Sabbath  day. 

The  Lord  has  told  us  that  we  should  go  to  his  holy  house  on 
his  day  and  there  worship  before  him,  offer  our  oblations  to  him 
that  we  might  be  built  up  and  strengthened.  It  isn't  that  the  Lord 
wants  us  to  honor  him,  but  like  all  of  his  laws,  they  are  for  our 
benefit  and  blessing.  His  injunctions  are  that  we  might  be  happy, 
that  we  might  grow  and  become  spiritually  strong,  that  we  might 
ultimately  be  as  he  is,  that  we  might  take  upon  ourselves  great 
power.  We  are  here  in  this  life  for  that  purpose,  that  we  might 
understand  life  and,  as  the  scriptures  say,  that  we  might  have  life 
more  abundantly. 

Age  of  Scientific  Marvels 

President  Smith  referred  this  morning  to  the  fact  that  these 
services  were  not  only  being  broadcast  but  also  that  the  Saints 
who  are  assembled  in  the  Assembly  Hall  are  permitted  to  see  just 
what  is  being  done,  to  see  the  Tabernacle  Choir  in  its  singing  and 
to  see  those  who  are  called  to  the  stand  to  speak.  It  is  verily  a 
marvelous  age.  Reference  was  made  by  Bishop  Isaacson  to  the 
fact  that  he  talked  to  his  son  by  long-distance  telephone  last  night. 
You  and  I  may  talk  to  our  sons  even  in  Europe.   We  may  not  only 


38  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  4  First  Day 

talk  to  them  but  we  may  also  see  them.  What  a  source  of  com- 
fort it  will  be  for  a  parent  to  pick  up  the  telephone  and  talk  to  his 
son  in  a  foreign  country  and  at  the  same  time  see  him  visually, 
to  know  that  he  is  well. 

Twenty-five  years  ago,  had  anyone  said  anything  about  tele- 
vison,  we  would  have  wondered  whether  or  not  he  was  sound  in 
his  thinking,  and  yet  today  we  have  these  marvelous  things  right 
at  our  door. 

One  of  our  brethren  was  down  in  our  locality  a  few  weeks  ago 
to  talk  to  one  of  our  service  clubs,  Brother  Alvin  Pack,  a  son  of  Dr. 
Fred  J.  Pack  who  formerly  was  connected  with  the  University  of 
Utah,  and  has  now  passed  to'  the  other  side,  a  lovely  character, 
a  man  in  all  of  his  scientific  work  stimulating  faith.  We  were  in- 
formed of  some  of  the  present-day  marvelous  achievements.  He 
told  us  that  as  he  came  around  the  point  of  the  mountain  in  his  car 
a  little  flash  on  his  dashboard  indicated  that  he  was  wanted  on  the 
telephone  and  on  picking  up  the  receiver  he  was  informed  that  he 
was  wanted  in  New  York  on  long  distance.  With  only  a  flip  of  a 
button  he  was  able,  as  he  was  traveling  fifty  or  sixty  miles  an  hour, 
to  make  that  connection  and  talk  to  New  York.  Certainly  this  is 
a  marvelous  age.  It  is  an  age  for  youth,  an  age  of  opportunity,  and 
as  I  thought  of  these  things  and  thought  of  this  achievement  of 
television  I  wondered  in  my  own  heart  if  perhaps  the  time  will 
not  come  when  we  can  see  our  loved  ones  on  the  other  side.  That 
is  not  beyond  the  pale  of  possibility.  To  us  now,  of  course,  it  seems 
impossible.  Television  was  impossible  for  us  not  so  long  ago. 

We  Must  Walk  by  Faith 

Is  it  not  within  the  range  of  possibility  that  we  may  at  some 
future  day  be  able  not  only  to  commune  with  those  dear  to  us  on 
the  other  side,  but  to  see  them?  What  an  assurance  this  would 
be.  God  in  his  mercy  has  seen  fit  not  to  grant  to  us  this  great 
blessing  and  privilege  now,  because  he  recognizes  we  must  walk  by 
faith.  We  must  live  by  faith.  Human  experience  has  taught  that 
when  we  walk  by  pure  knowledge,  we  forget  the  place  of  God  in 
our  lives.  I  think  it  was  William  Dean  Howells  who  made  this 
observation  on  one  occasion,  that  he  wondered  if  one  of  the  rea- 
sons why  the  other  side  was  shut  out  from  our  view  was  because 
if  we  positively  knew,  we  would  be  less  kind,  we  would  be  less  sym- 
pathetic in  the  positive  knowledge  that  would  come  to  us,  we  would 
delay  the  day  of  making  right  wrongs  that  beset  us;  but  the  fact 
that  we  walk  by  faith,  the  fact  that  sometimes  there  is  some  un- 
certainty in  our  walking  leads  us  to  be  more  careful.  Certainly 
the  Lord  in  his  great  wisdom  has  withheld  from  us  some  of  the 
things  that  we  would  all  love  to  know  and  see;  and  yet,  as  we 
contemplate  the  marvelous  experiences  of  life  from  day  to  day,  we  are 
conscious  of  the  fact  that  in  his  great  providence  we  will  eventually 
be  able  to  surmount  all  of  the  physical  things  that  beset  us.  Then 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 


39 


we  will  be  ushered  into  the  eternal  things,  and  we  will  know  as 
God  knows.  We  will  have  power  as  he  has  power.  Jesus  had 
that  power.  He  said  in  effect,  "No  man  taketh  this  life  from  me, 
but  I  have  power  of  myself  to  lay  this  body  down  and  by  the  same 
power  I  shall  take  it  up.  This  I  have  received  from  my  Father." 
(See  John  10:18.)  Even  so  will  we,  his  children,  be  given  these 
great  powers,  but  all  of  them  predicated  upon  our  subscribing  to 
his  divine  laws  and  living  in  accordance  with  his  holy  will. 

Parental  Guidance  Needed 

I  said  a  minute  ago  this  is  a  great  day  for  youth.  Our  boys 
and  girls  are  having  opportunities  the  like  of  which  we  never  had 
in  our  generation.  It  certainly  is  a  thrilling  time  to  live  and  yet, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  wondered  many  times  if  in  this 
great  field  of  physical  progress  we  are  keeping  pace  spiritually. 
I  am  led  to  this  conclusion  because  of  some  of  the  experiences  that 
our  boys  and  girls  are  having  and  some  of  the  things  that  are  coming 
to  light  of  their  experiences.  One  of  our  boys  recently  came  home 
from  Japan,  and  when  I  interviewed  him  for  a  mission,  he  said 
frankly,  "Brother  Young,  I  find  it  much  harder  here  to  withstand 
temptation  than  I  found  it  over  in  Tokyo."  In  interviewing  some 
of  these  boys  we  find  that  they  are  lacking  some  of  the  parental 
care  that  they  should  have  and  doubtless  did  have  a  generation 
ago.  I  am  wondering  whether  we  as  parents  are  frank  enough 
with  our  boys  and  girls,  if  we  take  them  into  our  confidence,  if  we 
are  not  relying  too  much  on  this  mechanical  age,  for  which  we  are 
truly  grateful,  for  their  spiritual  strength,  for  the  parental  counsel 
that  they  need.  It  seems  to  me  that  this  is  one  field  of  our  activity 
that  we  need  to  emphasize  more  strongly  than  ever  before.  Our 
boys  and  girls  need  our  help.  They  need  our  guidance;  they  need 
to  know  some  of  the  pitfalls  that  may  confront  them  in  their  experi- 
ences; and  they  need  to  be  talked  to  very  frankly  about  some  of 
their  sex  problems,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  field  that  we  seem 
to  avoid.  We  need  parents  to  sit  down  with  their  boys  and  girls 
and  to  warn  them  of  dangers  that  are  on  every  hand.  There  is 
no  change,  in  all  this  progress,  in  all  the  present-day  opportunities, 
in  some  of  the  fundamental  concepts.  It  is  just  as  wrong  today  to  steal 
as  it  was  four  thousand  years  ago  when  the  Lord  gave  his  great  com- 
mandment. It  is  just  as  wrong  today  to  commit  adultery  as  it  was 
then.  It  is  just  as  wrong  today  to  violate  the  Sabbath  day  as  it  was 
then.  It  is  just  as  important  today  that  we  should  honor  God,  honor 
his  holy  name,  not  profane  it,  keep  his  holy  day  as  it  was  four  thou- 
sand years  ago.  These  things  never  change.  It  is  just  as  right  and 
proper  that  we  should  honor  virtue,  that  we  should  honor  woman- 
hood as  we  were  taught  centuries  ago.    These  things  never  change. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


Glorious  Age  for  Youth 


And  so,  I  repeat,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  with  all  of  the  great 
opportunities  we  have  before  us,  the  opportunities  that  our  boys 
and  girls  have,  it  is  a  glorious  age  in  which  to  live,  one  that  brings 
happiness,  if  we  keep  the  commandments,  one  that  thrills  us  be- 
cause of  the  great  opportunities,  and  yet,  with  it  all  we  must  also 
keep  pace  spiritually  and  not  forget  some  of  these  fundamental  con- 
cepts that  are  always  true  and  will  never  change.  So  I  repeat 
again,  we  need  to  go  back  to  some  of  the  old  customs  of  fathers 
and  mothers  sitting  down  with  their  children  and  talking  through 
some  of  the  problems  that  confront  our  youth.  Our  boys  and 
girls  need  our  help.  I  am  not  one  that  would  say  to  a  boy  or  a  girl, 
"You're  not  worthy  to  go  to  the  temple,"  but  I  would  say,  "You're 
not  quite  prepared.  Let  us  sit  down  together  and  see  if  we  cannot 
help  you  to  become  prepared."  It  may  take  six  months  or  it  may 
take  a  year,  but  the  fact  that  our  boys  and  girls  may  not  be  pre- 
pared does  not  relieve  us  of  the  responsibility  of  doing  the  thing 
we  should  do  of  helping  our  youth  to  become  prepared  for  the  prob- 
lems of  life  and  for  the  great  spiritual  opportunities  that  are  theirs 
in  this  great  Church  to  which  we  belong. 

May  God  help  us  that  we  may  have  wisdom  in  the  direction 
of  our  youth,  in  helping  them  in  their  problems  and  above  all  of 
having  a  sympathetic  understanding  of  them  and  what  they  have 
to  face,  and  may  he  sanctify  to  our  spiritual  growth  the  great 
opportunities  with  which  we  are  surrounded,  these  glorious  physi- 
cal opportunities,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


The  pleasant  thing  about  standing  before  you,  brethren  and 
sisters,  is  to  have  the  opportunity  to  look  at  you  and  recognize 
among  you  many  of  our  friends.  If  you  love  me  as  dearly  as  I 
love  you,  then  I  am  happy.  I  would  like  to  serve  you  since  the 
Lord  has  said  that  inasmuch  as  we  serve  the  least  of  his  children, 
we  serve  him.  That  is  our  purpose,  and  that  has  always  been  my 
purpose,  to  serve  God  to  the  best  of  my  ability.  I  am  sure  that  he 
lives,  and  I  am  grateful  for  all  that  he  has  done  in  my  behalf. 


Last  Sunday  we  celebrated  Easter,  the  day  on  which  we  rec- 
ognize the  resurrection  of  Christ,  our  Lord.  It  is  a  wonderul 
thing  to  contemplate  what  he  did  for  us.  I  am  not  so  happy  to 
think  of  what  might  have  been  our  lot  if  it  had  not  been  for  him. 
But  when  we  realize  the  wonderful  gift  which  he  gave  us  through 
his  atonement,  it  should  give  us  great  joy  and  happiness  and  a  new 
determination  to  serve  him,  to  serve  him  to  the  very  best  of  our 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


The  Atonement  of  Christ 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  WINS 


41 


ability.  He  gave  us  an  opportunity  to  go  back .  into  the  presence 
of  our  Father  in  heaven,  from  whom  we  came.  He  promised,  too, 
that  if  we  would  repent  of  the  things  which  we  do  which  are  not 
right,  and  repent  honestly  and  sincerely  and  come  through  the 
waters  of  baptism  into  the  body  of  the  Church,  and  there  serve  him 
well  and  faithfully  to  the  end,  that  he  would  forgive  us  of  those 
transgressions,  that  when  we  should  appear  before  him  he  would 
hold  us  guiltless  before  the  Father,  that  he  would  carry  the  burdens 
of  our  sins.  He  tells  us,  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  that  that  is  his 
gospel  and  that  he  came  into  this  world  to  give  his  life  for  the  world; 
that  whosoever  should  repent  and  endure  in  righteousness  to  the 
end,  would  be  saved,  the  sins  of  those  people  being  blotted  out 
from  the  Book  of  Remembrance;  the  dearest  consolation  of  all,  per- 
haps, that  I  find  in  reading  the  scriptures. 

He  did  for  us,  as  has  already  been  said,  the  thing  which  no 
one  else  could  have  done,  having  power  over  life  and  death:  he  gave 
his  life  for  us.  God  so  loved  the  world  that  he  gave  his  Only  Be- 
gotten Son  for  us.  The  Only  Begotten  Son  so  loved  the  world  that  he 
gave  his  life  for  us.  We  should  learn  to  appreciate  it  and  to  honor 
him  and  to  help  in  the  realization  of  his  worthy  purposes. 

"My  Peace  I  Give  Unto  You" 

It  was  said,  on  one  occasion,  that  he  was  not  bringing  peace 
to  the  world,  but  the  sword.  And  then,  again,  he  said,  "...  my  peace  I 
give  unto  you"  (John  14:27,)  not  the  peace  of  the  world,  but  his 
peace,  the  peace  that  passeth  understanding,  the  peace  that  one 
can  feel  in  one's  heart  in  the  midst  of  trial  and  turmoil  and  per- 
secution. And  if  we  could  get  that  peace,  especially  in  this  time 
of  uncertainty,  what  a  wonderful  thing  it  would  be  for  us.  The 
peace  that  passeth  understanding — how  are  we  going  to  go  about 
getting  it? 

He  told  us  on  one  occasion,  too,  that  the  first  commandment 
was  to  love  God  with  all  our  hearts  and  with  all  our  might  and  with 
all  our  strength,  and  that  there  is  another  commandment  like  it, 
which  is  to  love  our  neighbor  as  we  love  ourselves.  If  we  will  do 
that,  we  will  serve  our  neighbors  as  we  would  hope  that  those  neigh- 
bors would  help  and  serve  us.  If  we  could  bring  ourselves  to  that 
wholehearted  service  of  men,  I  am  sure  that  we  would  be  on  the 
highway  of  the  realization  of  that  supreme  peace.  In  this  day  when 
everybody  is  struggling  with  everybody  to  get  gain,  it  is  hard  to 
find  time  to  serve  one  another  wholeheartedly.  But,  before  we  ever 
realize  that  peace,  we  will  have  this  to  do;  we  must  eradicate  from 
our  hearts,  from  our  feelings,  and  from  our  program,  all  selfishness. 
If  we  could  do  that  now,  we  would  be  happier.  If  we  could  im- 
press our  neighbors  with  the  fact  that  they  should  do  it  now,  they 
would  be  happier.  If  we  could  impress  the  governments  of  the 
nations  of  the  earth  with  the  fact  that  they  should  be  unselfish,  there 
would  be  peace,  not  only  a  peace  that  the  world  could  enjoy,  but 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


an  opportunity  for  man,  himself,  to  realize  in  his  heart  that  wonder- 
ful peace. 


Today  at  the  dinner  table  I  asked  my  guests,  "What  is  it  that 
you  worry  over  most,  the  offenses  of  other  people  made  toward 
you,  or  the  things  you  do  to  other  people  which  are  offensive?" 
I  have  come  to  believe  that  you  will  never  have  that  peace  so  long 
as  you  are  constantly  doing  things  to  other  people  that  you  know 
you  should  not  do.  If  we  ever  get  to  a  state  where  our  minds  are 
free  of  offense  toward  other  people,  then  I  believe  that  peace  will 
begin  to  creep  into  our  hearts  and  that  we  will  love  them  and  love 
them  so  that  we  can  bring  them  to  our  embrace  and  serve  them. 
Until  that  time  comes,  perhaps,  we  will  never  know  that  peace.  I 
believe  that  it  is  possible,  in  the  midst  of  the  turmoil  of  today,  to 
get  that  peace,  the  peace  of  God.  I  believe  that  during  the  con- 
flict that  we  recently  terminated — and  which  some  people  fear  is 
imminent  again — there  were  many  of  our  boys  who  went  through 
the  struggles  of  warfare  with  that  peace  in  their  hearts,  a  conscience 
free  of  offense  to  other  people  and  knowing  that  if  they  could  give 
their  lives  for  us  they  were  not  fearful  to  meet  their  God  and  give 
account  of  their  services.  It  might  be  possible  for  us  to  enjoy  that 
same  spirit  in  our  business  relationships  with  each  other  if  no  man 
should  ever  take  advantage  of  another.  It  ought  to  be  possible 
for  us  to  enjoy  that  same  feeling  of  peace  in  our  social  relationships 
with  each  other,  that  no  man  should  ever  say  offensive  things 
about  another  to  hurt  his  feelings. 


If  you  will  permit  a  personal  reference,  I  believe  that  I  feel 
worse  over  the  thoughtless  things  I  do  and  say  to  other  people  than 
I  do  over  the  things  they  say  and  do  to  me,  and  I  would  like  to 
enjoy  the  Spirit  of  God  to  such  an  extent  that  I  never  would  say 
or  do  a  thing  that  would  be  detrimental  to  another.  Then,  perhaps, 
I  might  enjoy  that  wonderful  peace  of  Christ.  He  said  in  effect, 
"I  leave  it  with  you,"  and  that  implies  that  it  is  possible  of  attain- 
ment, but  we  must  admit  that  the  struggle  of  attainment  is  great, 
that  none  of  us  is  perfect,  that  failure  seems  to  be  the  lot  of  most  of  us 
in  most  things  that  we  attempt  to  do  to  approach  perfection.  But  we 
must  strive  for  it,  nevertheless.  It  was  held  out  as  a  goal  to  us, 
and  the  nearer  we  approach  perfection  in  that  respect  the  greater 
will  be  our  joy  and  our  happiness. 

I  have  been  thinking  of  that  lately  a  good  deal,  how  can  we 
approach  the  peace  that  Christ  would  leave  with  us?  And  I  have 
come  to  the  conclusion  that  if  and  when  we  enjoy  it,  it  will  be  be- 
cause we  repent  of  our  sins  and  purify  our  lives.  There  is  no  prog- 
ress without  repentance.  We  cannot  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  God 
in  sinful  living.    And  inasmuch  as  I  feel  that  that  peace  is  the 


Conscience  Free  of  Offense 


Peace  Comes  from  Righteous  Living 


BISHOP  LE  GRAND  RICHARDS  43 


most  desirable  thing  in  the  world,  then  I  feel  that  my  duty  and 
yours  is  to  repent  and  purify  our  lives  that  we  may  have  claim 
upon  God,  our  Heavenly  Father,  for  his  Spirit.  Once  we  get  it, 
we  will  have  that  peace.  And  regardless  of  the  uncertainties  of 
our  lives,  we  will  not  worry  over  them,  but  we  will  have  the  peace 
that  comes  from  the  realization  that  we  are  the  children  of  God 
and  that  if  our  lives  are  holy  in  his  sight,  our  exaltation  and  elec- 
tion will  be  sure,  and  that  eternity  is  so  much  more  important  than 
mortality.  This  life  is  not  a  goal,  it  is  just  a  means  of  preparation 
for  eternity,  that  we  may  go  back,  eventually,  into  the  presence 
of  our  Heavenly  Father  and  there  enjoy  whatever  blessings  he  may 
have  to  bestow  upon  us.  "My  peace  I  leave  with  you."  God 
bless  you.  Amen. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn, 
"G*  Say,  What  is  Truth,"  by  Jaques. 

BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  appreciate  the  privilege  of  wor- 
shiping with  you  in  this  conference.  It  is  a  marvelous  thing  to  be 
associated  together  in  the  work  that  is  so  dear  to  the  hearts  of  all 
of  us. 

Testimony  of  the  Spirit 

Last  Sunday  night,  as  I  returned  from  attending  conference  in 
the  northern  part  of  Idaho,  I  listened  to  President  Clark  over  the 
radio  deliver  such  a  beautiful  sermon  on  Easter  and  conclude  by 
bearing  his  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  Christ  and  his  resur- 
rection, which  testimony,  he  indicated,  was  given  to  him  by  the 
Spirit.  I  wondered  if,  in  the  Church  as  a  whole,  we  realize  the 
value  of  the  testimony  of  the  Spirit.  It  was  Moroni  who  said  that 
by  the  Holy  Ghost  we  might  know  the  truth  of  all  things.  In  our 
Church  we  are  rich  with  knowledge  and  testimony  through  the 
Holy  Ghost. 

Jesus  said  to  his  disciples: 

...  It;  is  expedient  for  you  that  I  go  away;  for  if  I  go  not  away, 
the  Comforter  will  not  come  unto  you.    (John  16:7.) 

And  he  said: 

...  I  will  pray  the  Father,  and  he  shall  give  you  another  comforter, 
that  he  may  abide  with  you  for  ever; 

Even  the  Spirit  of  truth;  whom  the  world  cannot  receive,  because 
it  seeth  him  not,  neither  knoweth  him,  but  ye  know  him;  for  he  dwelleth 
with  you,  and  shall  be  in  you.    (John  14:16-17.) 

Then  we  are  told  that  he  shall  teach  us  all  things,  and  by  the 
Holy  Ghost  we  might  know  the  truth  of  all  things. 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  4  First  Dag 

Nine  years  after  my  grandfather,  Franklin  D.  Richards,  had 
been  baptized  a  member  of  the  Church,  during  which  time  he  had 
filled  five  missions  in  the  United  States,  had  come  up  through  the 
grades  of  the  priesthood  to  the  office  of  high  priest  and  was  then 
serving  as  a  member  of  the  presidency  of  the  European  Mission,  he 
records  in  his  journal  the  following:  "Most  of  all  things,  this  day, 
I  desire  the  Holy  Spirit,  which  giveth  life,  yea  life,  more  abundantly 
to  both  body  and  spirit."  This  is  the  power  by  which  this  kingdom 
grows. 

You  will  remember  how  Peter  denied  the  Christ  thrice  before 
he  received  the  Holy  Ghost,  but  after  he  received  the  Holy  Ghost, 
when  he  was  commanded  that  he  should  no  more  preach  Christ, 
and  him  crucified,  in  the  streets  of  Jerusalem,  Peter  replied,  "Whom 
shall  men  obey?  God  or  man?"  And  he  considered  himself  not 
worthy  to  be  crucified  as  was  his  Lord.  This  is  the  testimony 
of  the  Spirit  and  the  power  by  which  this  kingdom  is  growing  in 
the  earth. 

Development  of  Gift  of  the  Spirit 

You  will  recall  the  admonition  of  the  Apostle  Paul  to  his 
brother,  Timothy,  when  he  put  him  in  remembrance  that  he  should 
stir  up  the  gift  of  God  which  he  had  received  by  the  laying  on  of 
his,  Paul's,  hands.  Was  this  idle  talk,  or  do  we  receive  the  Spirit 
of  God  by  the  laying  on  of  hands  of  his  servants?  If  so,  should 
we  not  all  seek  to  stir  up  the  gift  of  the  Spirit  that  he  might  guide 
and  direct  us? 

I  cannot  conceive  that  any  Latter-day  Saint  can  be  without  a 
testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  work  if  he  will  but  consider  what 
has  been  accomplished  in  the  Church  because  of  the  gift  of  the 
Spirit  of  God  which  is  in  it. 

It  is  said  that  during  the  twenties,  when  the  elders  were  being 
persecuted  in  Great  Britain,  the  government  sent  an  officer  here  to 
investigate  the  "Mormon  problem"  and  see  what  it  was  that  made 
them  so  determined  to  carry  their  message  to  other  nations.  When 
he  returned  his  report  was  that  the  "black  secret"  of  Mormonism 
was  the  individual  testimony  of  its  members.  And  surely,  brothers 
and  sisters,  this  is  the  "black  secret"  of  Mormonism.  You  can  travel 
throughout  the  wards  and  stakes  of  Zion  and  the  missions  of  the 
Church  or  go  where  you  will,  and  wherever  you  find  Latter-day 
Saints  who  have  received  the  gift  of  the  Spirit  by  the  laying  on  of 
hands,  this  spirit  is  evidenced  through  their  activities  in  the  Church. 
A  power  is  there  that  cannot  be  found  anywhere  else  in  all  the 
world. 

Letter  from  Convert 

We  received  a  letter  at  the  Presiding  Bishop's  office  a  few 
days  ago  from  a  young  convert  to  the  Church  through  meeting  our 
boys  in  the  armed  forces.    He  sent  in  a  substantial  amount  of 


BISHOP  LE  GRAND  RICHARDS  45 


tithing.  Then  he  bore  his  testimony  in  his  letter,  and  I  would  like 
to  read  a  portion  of  that  testimony  to  you  today.    He  wrote: 

Before  closing  I  would  like  to  mention  that  I  have  gained  a  very 
strong  testimony  of  very  many  great,  wonderful,  and  glorious  things, 
since  being  baptized.  I  could  not  make  this  letter  long  enough  to  bear  my 
testimony,  but  I  would  like  to  say  that  I  know,  with  a  sincerity,  that  I 
have  God's  blessing  upon  enclosing  this  money.  It  is  a  glorious  inspira- 
tion when  you  see  the  road  of  life,  the  direction  of  God's  path,  and  the 
beam  of  his  eternal  goodness.  These  things  I  have;  these  things  I  shall 
never  forsake.  With  these,  I  have  eternal  happiness.  Although  this 
money  which  I  am  sending  is  termed  in  the  thought  of  "coins,"  I  know,  we 
know,  that  actually  it  is  a  symbolic  but  compact  measurement  of  one-tenth 
of  what  the  Lord  has  given  and  provided  me  as  a  blessing  in  life.  Although 
this  measurement  is  earthly,  it  has  a  spiritual  meaning,  the  same  as  all 
of  God's  ordinances.  This  ordinance  I  feel  pleasured,  humble,  and  privi- 
ledged  to  offer  and  perform. 

The  Lord  said  that  he  had  never  given  a  temporal  command- 
ment unto  his  children,  that  all  of  his  commandments  are  spiritual, 
and  this  new  convert  to  the  Church  feels  the  power  and  the  spirit 
of  it;  and  I  thought  of  this  when  my  father,  President  George  F. 
Richards,  was  talking  on  the  law  of  tithing  this  morning. 

The  Law  of  Tithing 

I  read  in  the  last  "Kiplinger  Letter"  that  contributions  to  the 
churches  were  falling  off  because  of  financial  conditions  in  the 
nations.  But,  as  the  Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church,  I  can  say  to 
you  that  the  contributions  in  this  Church  are  not  falling  off.  They 
are  increasing  because  there  is  spiritual  power  and  meaning  in  the 
Church. 

I  remember  while  in  the  mission  field,  Sister  Richards  and  I 
were  invited  by  a  member  of  another  church  to  attend  a  lecture  by 
an  itinerant  preacher  who  was  going  through  the  land  explaining 
to  the  churches  how  they  could  get  out  of  debt.  His  program  was 
that  they  should  turn  to  the  Lord's  way  of  paying  their  tithes 
and  their  offerings,  and  if  they  would  just  do  it  for  ten  months, 
their  churches  could  all  get  out  of  debt.  After  the  meeting  I  had  the 
privilege  of  being  introduced  to  him,  and  I  told  him  I  would  like  to 
bear  testimony  that  he  was  getting  near  the  truth,  that  we  had  been 
preaching  the  law  all  our  lives.  Then  I  added,  "But  what  I  cannot 
understand,  Reverend,  is  that  if  tithing  is  the  Lord's  law  of  blessing 
his  people,  why  you  do  not  ask  them  to  pay  their  tithing  all  their 
lives,  so  that  they  can  have  the  blessing  of  the  Lord,  instead  of  for 
only  ten  months."  He  replied,  "Mr.  Richards,  we  cannot  go  quite 
that  far,  yet."  Now  this  is  the  difference  between  a  man-made  system 
and  one  where  the  Lord  puts  into  it  the  breath  of  life,  the  Spirit 
of  God,  the  Spirit  by  which  we  know  the  truth  of  all  things.  We  do 
not  send  out  any  collectors  in  this  Church  for  tithing.  We  do  for 
fast  offerings  and  for  donations  to  build  meetinghouses,  as  you 
know;  but  if  you  could  be  in  our  office,  you  would  see  the  number 
of  men  who  come  in  years  after  their  tithing  is  due  to  make  settlement, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


because  the  Lord  continues  to  speak  to  their  souls  through  the 
power  of  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  until  they  cannot  find  peace.  We  have 
gone  back — notl  ten  years — but  twenty  and  more  years  to  give 
credit  to  the  brethren  on  their  tithing  record.  The  spirit  of  the 
Lord  is  a  better  collector  than  anyone  in  the  world.  We  have 
ministers  come  in  our  office  to  inquire  how  we  run  the  tithing 
system  in  our  Church,  and  when  we  tell  them  that  all  the  wards  and 
branches  send  in  all  the  money  they  receive  to  us,  and  we  send 
back  what  their  allowance  is,  they  shake  their  heads  and  say, 
"They  wouldn't  do  that  in  our  church.  The  local  organizations 
would  take  out  what  they  need,  first;  and  if  there  were  any  left 
they  might  send  it  to  headquarters." 


Well,  that  same  spirit  carries  through  in  all  the  activities  of  the 
Church.  The  testimony  of  the  Spirit  of  God  is  the  most  marvelous 
thing  I  know  of  in  this  world,  and  I  would  rather  see  that  testimony 
planted  in  the  hearts  of  my  children  than  anything  I  know  of  today. 

Brother  Ballard  used  to  tell  about  the  colonizer  in  the  northwest 
who  had  learned  what  a  marvelous  work  we  had  done  in  colonizing, 
and  came  down  here  to  write  a  treatise  on  it,  to  see  if  he  could  make 
it  work.  After  trying  it  he  said,  "Mr.  Ballard,  you  tell  us  what  is  wrong 
with  it.  You  read  it  over.  I  have  tried  it,  but  it  just  will  not  work  for 
me."  Brother  Ballard  read  it  and  said,  "You  have  here  a  perfect 
corpse.  If  someone  would  just  breathe  into  it  the  breath  of  life, 
it  would  work."     Now  you  know  what  the  breath  of  life  is. 

We  were  in  the  temple  on  Wednesday  for  seven  hours  and 
twenty  minutes  with1  the  mission  presidents.  One  of  them  told  of  his 
father  in  Canada  who  was  sent  up  there  to  colonize  when  he  was  a 
mere  lad,  by  the  President  of  the  Church.  He  has  wanted  to  return 
for  years,  and  his  son  asked  him  why  he  did  not  come  back.  He  said, 
"I  cannot  return  until  the  President  of  the  Church  gives  me  my  re- 
lease." And  I  have  met  many  others  all  up  and  down  these  valleys 
who  have  had  similar  experiences.  When  they  came  here  in  the  early 
days,  they  would  have  gladly  remained  in  Salt  Lake  with  the  body 
of  the  Church  and  the  brothers  and  sisters  they  had  known,  save  for 
one  thing  and  that  is  the  testimony  of  the  Spirit  of  God.  When  they 
were  called  by  his  servants  to  settle  other  localities,  they  were  true 
to  their  call.  This  is  the  spirit  by  which  the  Church  has  accomplished 
so  much. 


While  I  was  in  Idaho  recently,  a  stake  president  told  me  of  a 
trip  he  and  his  wife  had  just  made  to  Texas.  They  wrote  their  mission- 
ary boy  that  they  would  pick  him  up — of  course,  they  would  make 
arrangements  with  the  mission  president — and  take  him  up  to  Chicago 
on  a  trip  with  them.  But  when  they  got  there,  the  boy  said,  "No, 
Father,  I  could  not  be  a  quitter.  I  could  not  leave  my  mission.  I  cannot 


The  Power  of  a  Testimony 


Faith  of  Missionaries 


BISHOP  LE  GRAND  RICHARDS  47 


go  on  the  trip  with  you.  You  and  Mother  go  on  and  have  a  good  time 
and  leave  me  here  in  my  missionary  work." 

Some  of  you  have  heard  Bishop  Isaacson  tell  a  similar  story  about 
his  boy.  When  he  went  east  to  make  arrangements  with  his  company 
so  he  could  come  into'  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  he  wrote  his  boy  in 
Boston  that  he  and  the  boy's  mother  were  coming  up  to  visit  him,  and 
the  boy  wrote  back  and  said,  "Well,  Father,  I  would  surely  like  to  see 
you  and  Mother,  but  just  remember  I  will  not  have  much  time  to 
spend  with  you.  I  cannot  spare  it  from  my  missionary  work." 

President  Smith,  this  morning,  referred  to  the  seventy  odd  thou- 
sand missionaries  who'  have  gone  out  for  this  Church.  I  dare  say  that 
out  of  that  seventy  thousand  you  could  not  have  found  a  half  dozen 
who  would  have  deserted  their  missionary  call  for  all  the  money  in 
this  world  or  for  any  position  that  might  have  been  offered  to  them. 
Is  there  any  power  in  the  world  that  can  plant  such  feelings  in  the 
hearts  of  the  children  of  men?  Do  you  think  Joseph  Smith  could  have 
done  it,  that  Brigham  Young  could  have  done  it,  that  President  Smith 
could  do>  it?  No,  that  is  the  power  of  the  testimony  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Some  of  my  Dutch  friends,  a  man  and  his  wife,  came  into  the  office 
the  other  day,  and  they  said,  "Brother  Richards,  we  have  filled  one 
mission  together,  but  we  would  surely  like  to  go  on  another."  Then  he 
said,  "If  we  sell  our  home  and  our  automobile,  we  can  finance  our- 
selves." Is  there  any  other  cause  in  this  world  for  which  men  would 
ask  for  the  privilege  of  selling  all  they  have — even  to  their  homes — 
other  than  that  they  might  bear  witness  to  the  truth  of  this  great 
Latter-day  work?  Much  more  could  be  said  about  sacrifices  for  mis- 
sionary work. 

Loyalty  to  Church  Leaders 

Some  of  you  will  remember  hearing  President  Anthony  W.  Ivins 
in  a  priesthood  meeting  here  in  this  Tabernacle,  tell  how  many  times 
he  had  sold  all  he  had  that  he  might  answer  the  call  of  his  Church,  and 
move  on,  even  down  into  the  colonies  of  Mexico,  that  great  leader 
who  could  have  been  such  a  political  leader  here.  Why  did  he  go? 
Would  he  have  chosen  or  elected  to'  go  of  himself?  No,  he  went  be- 
cause of  a  testimony  of  the  Spirit  of  God  that  burned  in  his  soul,  and 
that  is  the  power  by  which  the  kingdom  is  growing. 

You  have  heard  President  Grant  tell  how  he  was  offered  a  salary 
of  forty  thousand  dollars  to  affiliate  himself  with  an  insurance  com- 
pany in  the  East,  when  he  was  but  a  young  man.  But  he  was  called 
of  God  to  be  an  apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  he  could  not 
accept  the  insurance  company's  offer.  I  want  to-  tell  you  that  some  of 
our  leaders  today  have  given  up  positions  that  were  worth  just  about 
ten  times  as  much  as  the  allowance  they  are  getting  from  the  Church 
to  live  on.  They  did  not  ask  for  the  privilege  to  serve  thus,  and  they 
did  not  ask  what  they  were  going  to  receive.  They  were  called  by  the 
voice  of  the  Lord's  anointed  and  that  is  all  that  mattered,  because  in 
their  soul  was  a  testimony  of  the  Spirit  of  God. 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  i  First  Day 

May  God  help  us  so  to  live  and  labor  and  teach  that  this  testi- 
mony may  ever  live  in  the  hearts  of  our  boys  and  our  girls,  the  youth 
of  Zion,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

This  is  a  glorious  privilege — to  speak  in  a  session  of  the  general 
conference  of  the  Church.  I  am  grateful  for  it. 

I  know  that  the  work  you  and  I  are  engaged  in  is  true.  Bishop 
Richards  has  spoken  of  getting  a  testimony  of  this  work  by  revelation 
from  the  Holy  Ghost.  I,  for  one,  as  an  elder  in  this  kingdom,  know 
that  the  work  is  true.  I  know  just  as  well  as  I  know  anything  in  this 
world,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  the  Living  God;  that  Joseph 
Smith,  a  choice  seer,  was  the  instrument  in  his  hands  in  our  day,  of 
giving  us  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  salvation;  and  that  the  keys  of 
salvation  have  remained  with  the  Church  from  the  days  of  Joseph 
Smith  to  the  present  moment. 

Salvation  por  the  Dead 

One  of  the  doctrines  of  this  kingdom,  in  which  there  is  great 
comfort  for  the  Saints,  is  that  of  salvation  for  the  dead.  We  know 
that  in  the  mercy  of  God  our  worthy  ancestors  may  become  joint 
heirs  with  us  of  the  riches  of  eternity — and  this  because  our  God  is 
no  respecter  of  persons.  Joseph  Smith  said  that  the  greatest  respons- 
ibility in  this  world  that  God  has  laid  upon  us — speaking  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  of  their  individual  responsibility — s  to  seek  after 
our  dead.  We  know  that  we,  without  them,  cannot  be  made  perfect; 
neither  can  they,  without  us. 

But  at  the  same  time,  in  this  glorious  doctrine  of  salvation  for 
the  dead,  there  is  a  warning  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  This  warning 
arises  because  the  doctrine  is  limited  to  those  who  die  without  a 
knowledge  of  the  gospel.  It  has  no  application  to  us.  As  far  as  I  am 
concerned,  as  far  as  you  are  concerned,  as  far  as  all  the  people  are 
concerned  who  have  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel,  now  is  the  time  and 
the  day  of  our  salvation. 

No  people  in  all  the  world  have  been  blessed  as  we  have  been 
blessed.  We  have  living  oracles  at  the  head;  we  have  prophets  and 
apostles  to  guide  us,  to  give  us  the  mind  and  will  of  the  Lord.  We 
have  the  opportunity  to  walk  in  the  light  of  latter-day  revelation. 
And,  accordingly,  we  have  the  responsibility  to  accept  that  light  and 
walk  as  God  would  have  us  walk  if  we  would  reap  the  glories  and 
honors  of  eternity. 

Prophet's  Vision  of  Celestial  Kingdom 

Shortly  before  the  dedication  of  the  Kirtland  Temple  in  1836, 
there  was  a  period  when  the  Holy  Ghost  was  poured  out  upon  the 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 


49 


people  in  great  abundance,  particularly  upon  the  leaders.  On  the 
twenty-first  of  January  1 836,  Joseph  Smith  and  many  of  the  leading 
brethren  were  assembled  in  the  Kirtland  Temple.  In  the  Prophet's 
language,  this  took  place: 

The  heavens  were  opened  upon  us,  and  I  beheld  the  celestial  king- 
dom of  God,  and  the  glory  thereof,  whether  in  the  body  or  out  I  cannot 
tell.  I  saw  the  transcendent  beauty  of  the  gate  through  which  the  heirs 
of  that  kingdom  will  enter,  which  was  like  unto  circling  flames  of  fire;  also 
the  blazing  throne  of  God,  whereon  was  seated  the  Father  and  the  Son. 
I  saw  the  beautiful  streets  of  that  kingdom,  which  had  the  appearance  of 
being  paved  with  gold.  I  saw  Fathers  Adam  and  Abraham  and  my  father 
and  mother,  my  brother,  Alvin,  that  has  long  since  slept,  and  marvelled 
how  it  was  that  he  had  obtained  an  inheritance  in  that  kingdom,  seeing 
that  he  had  departed  this  life  before  the  Lord  had  set  His  hand  to  gather 
Israel  the  second  time,  and  had  not  been  baptized  for  the  remission  of  sins. 
D.  H.  C.  2:380.) 

Alvin  had  died  on  November  19,  1824,  five  and  one-half  years 
before  the  Lord  had  organized,  through  the  Prophet,  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  He  had  not  been  baptized.  Baptism 
is  the  gate  to  the  celestial  kingdom  of  God.  It  is  impossible  to  enter 
that  kingdom  unless  one  is  born  of  water  and  of  the  spirit. 

At  the  time  this  vision  was  given,  the  Prophet's  father,  among 
others,  was  with  him  in  the  Kirtland  Temple.  Thus  it  is  a  vision  of 
what  was  to  be  in  the  future.  Joseph  continues  to  write: 
Thus  came  the  voice  of  the  Lord  unto  me,  saying — 
All  who  have  died  without  a  knowledge  of  this  Gospel,  who  would 
have  received  it  if  they  had  been  permitted  to  tarry,  shall  be  heirs  of  the 
celestial  kingdom  of  God;  also  all  that  shall  die  henceforth  without  a 
knowledge  of  it,  who  would  have  received  it  with  all  their  hearts,  shall 
be  heirs  of  that  kingdom,  for  I,  the  Lord,  will  judge  all  men  according  to 
their  works,  according  to  the  desire  of  their  hearts.     {D.H.C.  2:380; 
Teachings  o{  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  107.1 

There  is  no  promise — that  I  know  anything  about — that  those 
who  reject  the  gospel  in  this  life  will  be  heirs  of  the  celestial  kingdom 
in  the  world  to  come. 

When  the  Prophet  wrote  his  epistle  on  the  subject  of  baptism 
for  the  dead,  he  said  that  it  was 

...  for  the  salvation  of  the  dead  who  should  die  without  a  knowledge 
of  the  gospel.    (D.  &  C.  128:5.) 

Now  is  the  Day  of  Our  Salvation 

To  me,  and  to  you,  and  to  everyone  who  has  a  fair  and  a  just 
and  an  equitable  opportunity  to  accept  the  truth  in  this  life,  the  law, 
in  my  judgment,  is  that  given  by  Amulek.  He  said: 

.  .  .  now  is  the  time  and  day  of  your  salvation;  and  therefore,  if  ye 
will  repent  and  harden  not  your  hearts,  .  .  .  immediately  shall  the  great 
plan  of  redemption  be  brought  about  unto  you. 

For  behold,  this  life  is  the  time  for  men  to  prepare  to  meet  God;  yea, 
behold,  the  day  of  this  life  is  the  day  for  men  to  perform  their  labors. 

...  do  not  procrastinate  the  day  of  your  repentance  until  the  end; 
for  after  this  day  of  life,  which  is  given  us  to  prepare  for  eternity,  behold, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


if  we  do  not  improve  our  time  while  in  this  life,  then  cometh  the  night 
of  darkness  wherein  there  can  be  no  labor  performed.    (Alma  34:31-33.) 

The  Prophet  Mormon,  speaking  as  he  was  moved  upon  by  the 
Holy  Ghost,  pronounced  this  curse  upon  those  who,  having  oppor- 
tunity to  accept  the  laws  of  salvation  in  this  life,  reject  them: 

.  .  .  wo  be  unto  him  that  will  not  hearken  unto  the  words  of  Jesus,  and 
also  to  them  whom  he  hath  chosen  and  sent  among  them;  for  whoso 
receiveth  not  the  words  of  Jesus  and  the  words  of  those  whom  he  hath 
sent  receiveth  not  him;  and  therefore  he  will  not  receive  them  at  the  last 
day; 

And  it  would  be  better  for  them  if  they  had  not  been  born.  (Ill 
Nephi  28:  34-35.) 

Jacob,  the  brother  of  Nephi,  adds  this  testimony: 

.  .  .  wo  unto  him  that  has  the  law  given,  yea,  that  has  all  the  com- 
mandments of  God,  like  unto  us,  and  that  transgresseth  thelm,  and  that 
wasteth  the  days  of  his  probation,  for  awful  is  his  state!    (II  Nephi  9:27.) 

These  revealed  principles  are  but  specific  applications  of  the  eternal 
law  that: 

...  of  him  unto  whom  much  is  given  much  is  required;  and  he  who 
sins  against  the  greater  light  shall  receive  the  greater  condemnation. 
(D.  &  C.  82:  3.) 

When  the  Resurrected  Lord  appeared  to-  the  Nephites,  he 
preached  to  them,  in  purity  and  in  perfection,  his  everlasting  gospel. 
He  gave  them,  among  other  things,  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  sub- 
stantially the  same  as  he  had  given  it  to  the  Jews,  as  is  recorded  in 
the  New  Testament.  But  one  of  the  additions  he  made  was  this: 

.  .  .  come  unto  me  and  be  ye  saved;  for  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that 
except  ye  shall  keep  my  commandments,  which  I  have  commanded  you  at 
this  time,  ye  shall  in  no  case  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven.    (Ill  Nephi 


These  revelations  divide  the  heirs  of  salvation  into  two  classes: 
first,  those  who  have  opportunity  to  accept  and  live  the  gospel  in  this 
life — this  means  all  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  all  others  who  have 
a  sufficient  witness  of  Christ  borne  to>  them — all  of  them  are  under 
obligation  to  accept  the  truth  here  and  now,  to  hearken  to  the  counsels 
of  the  living  oracles,  and  to  live  according  to  the  best  light  and  knowl- 
edge that  God  gives  them.  If  they  do  this  they  work  out  their  salvation. 

The  other  class  of  people  who  will  be  heirs  of  the  celestial  king- 
dom are  those  who'  would  have  accepted  the  gospel  with  all  their 
hearts,  had  they  had  opportunity  to  accept  it  here.  For  them,  the  or- 
dinances of  salvation  will  be  performed  and  they  will  be  heirs  of  the 
kingdom,  and  with  the  righteous  and  faithful  of  this  life,  will  go  into 
our  Father's  kingdom  and  have  eternal  rest. 

We  can  get,  here  and  now,  in  this  life,  that  peace  of  Christ — 
the  peace  which  passeth  understanding  of  which  President  Ivins  has 


12:  20.) 


The  Heirs  of  Salvation 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 


51 


spoken — by  obeying  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  Then  if 
we  press  forward  and  continue  throughout  life  to  keep  the  command- 
ments, we  can  have  that  same  peace  and  that  same  rest  in  eternity. 

The  Terrestrial  World 

Now  the  question  naturally  arises,  in  the  light  of  these  principles 
and  doctrines,  "What  happens  to  those  who  have  an  opportunity  to 
accept  the  truth  in  this  life,  but  who  fail  or  neglect  to  do  it,  and  who 
hereafter  accept  it  in  the  spirit  world?"  The  Lord  has  given  us  answer 
by  revelation.  Speaking  of  the  terrestrial  world,  he  said:  These  are: 

.  .  .  they  who  are  the  spirits  of  men  kept  in  prison,  whom  the  Son 
visited,  and  preached  the  gospel  unto  them,  that  they  might  be  judged 
according  to  men  in  the  flesh; 

Who  received  not  the  testimony  of  Jesus  in  the  flesh,  but  afterwards 
received  it.    (D.  &  C.  76:73-74.) 

Well,  to  me  and  to  you,  and  to  those  to  whom  our  missionaries 
go,  this  is  a  great  warning.  It  is  a  warning  that  now  is  the  time  for  us 
to  keep  the  commandments  of  God.  I  do  not  know  any  reason  for 
believing  that  a  man  who'  has  belonged  to  this  Church,  and  has  then 
rebelled  against  the  truth,  who  has  forsaken  it  and  gone  his  own 
wilful  way,  will  have  another  chance  to  be  an  heir  to  that  kingdom. 
Christ's  law,  as  it  fell  from  his  own  lips,  is  that, 

.  .  .  No  man,  having  put  his  hand  to  the  plough,  and  looking  back,  is 
fit  for  the  kingdom  of  God.    (Luke  9:62.) 

I  do  not  sit  in  judgment.  Judgment  is  the  Lord's  and  he  will  repay. 
But  at  the  same  time  since  these  doctrines  have  come  to  us  in 
such  great  plainness  in  this  day,  we  are  bound  to  know  them,  to  live 
in  accordance  with  them — and  failing  such,  we  will  merit  the  penalty 
which  a  just  God  has  decreed  for  our  disobedience,  for  our  sinning 
against  the  light. 

Importance  of  Mortality 

We  lived  in  the  pre-existent  world.  We  walked  by  sight.  We 
gained  knowledge  and  intelligence,  and  we  obeyed  in  a  greater  or  less 
degree.  Then  the  Lord  put  us  down  here  in  mortality,  drew  a  curtain 
over  our  remembrance  of  pre-existence,  and  ordained  that  while  here 
we  should  be  tried  and  tested,  that  we  would  undergo  a  final  exami- 
nation for  all  the  life  we  had  lived  in  that  pre-mortal  world.  He  or- 
dained, at  the  same  time,  that  this  mortal  probation  would  be  an  en- 
trance examination  into  the  kingdoms  and  glories  and  worlds  that 
are  prepared  in  eternity. 

As  far  as  you  and  I  are  concerned,  at  this  time,  this  life  is  the 
most  important  part  of  all  eternity.  We  have  the  light  and  knowledge 
and  revelations  of  heaven.  This  life  is  the  time  for  us  to  prepare  to 
meet  God,  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  to  hearken  to  the 
counsels  of  the  living  oracles  and  to  press  forward  in  righteousness. 

The  plan  of  salvation  is  to  find  the  truth;  and  the  Latter-day 


52  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  i  First  Day 

Saints  have  found  it.  It  is  to  accept  the  truth;  and  we  have  accepted 
it  in  the  waters  of  baptism  by  covenant,  a  covenant  that  we  will  keep 
the  commandments  of  God.  The  remaining  step  is  to  endure  to  the 
end,  in  righteousness  and  in  faithfulness.  Nephi  said  that  repentance 
and  baptism  are  the  gate  to  salvation,  and  that  having  entered  in  by 
the  gate,  men  are  then  in  the  straight  and  narrow  path  which  leads  to 
eternal  life.  We  Latter-day  Saints  have  entered  in  by  the  gate.  We 
are  now  on  the  path.  It  remains  for  us  to  press  forward  with  a  stead- 
fastness in  Christ,  having  a  perfect  brightness  of  hope,  and  a  love  of 
God  and  of  all  men.  It  remains  for  us  to  press  forward,  feasting  upon 
the  words  of  Christ,  and  endure  to  the  end,  which  if  we  do,  we  will 
gain  eternal  life. 

Love  Lightens  our  Course 

I  do  not  know  that  there  is  anyone  among  us,  unless  he  has  sinned 
away  the  opportunity  of  repentance,  who'  is  not  capable  of  starting 
from  this  point  and  going  forward  in  righteousness  and  truth  and 
gaining  the  celestial  kingdom  of  heaven.  The  gospel  course  is  either 
hard  or  easy,  depending  upon  whether  we  love  the  Lord.  If  we  do  not 
love  the  Lord  it  may  seem  hard  and  the  course  may  seem  rugged.  If 
we  love  the  Lord  and  desire  to  keep  his  commandments,  then  his  yoke 
is  easy,  and  his  burden  is  light.  We  can  have  peace  and  joy  and  satis- 
faction and  solace  and  rest  here  and  now  in  this  life.  We  can  have  the 
guidance  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  we  can  make  our  calling  and  election 
sure  for  eternity  on  the  one  premise  of  keeping  the  commandments 
of  God. 

Now 

Let  us  hear  the  conclusion  of  the  whole  matter:    Fear  God,  and  keep 
his  commandments:  for  this  is  the  whole  duty  of  man.    (Ecc.  12:13.) 

In  the  name  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Today  as  always,  on  these  occasions,  I  seek  interest  in  your 
silent  prayers  and  for  the  sustaining  power  of  my  Heavenly  Father. 

Pioneer  Heritage 

Several  weeks  ago  there  appeared  in  our  local  newspaper,  an 
account  of  an  interview  with  an  elderly  statesman  who  seems  to  wield 
great  influence  today  in  American  politics.  This  elderly  statesman,  in 
explaining  the  reason  for  his  determination  and  zeal  told  of  an  inter- 
view, or  rather  a  statement  his  own  father — now  long  since  dead — 
had  made  to  his  four  sons  just  before  he  died.  This  is  what  the  father 
said: 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


53 


America,  with  its  government  and  constitution,  is  the  greatest  institu- 
tion invented  by  the  mind  of  man.  If  you  let  them  touch  a  stick  or  stone 
of  it,  I  will  come  back  and  haunt  you. 

As  I  thought  of  that  statement,  my  mind  went  back  to  our  ances- 
tors who  pioneered  in  this  dispensation  even  a  greater  constitution 
than  that  of  this  American  nation,  even  the  constitution  of  the  king- 
dom of  God,  which  might  be  said  to  be  another  definition  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

During  the  centennial  year,  the  year  just  passed,  we  were  remind- 
ed in  pageant,  in  sermon,  and,  in  song,  of  our  pioneers  who  came  here 
and  settled  in  these  western  valleys.  We  were  reminded  of  their  vir- 
tues, their  accomplishments,  and  of  the  underlying  principles  that 
made  them  willing  to  leave  all  that  they  possessed,  and  even  willing 
to  sacrifice  their  lives,  if  need  be  to  uphold  and  to  maintain.  As  I 
remembered  that  and  thought  of  the  statement  of  this  aged  American 
patriot,  I  wondered  if  we  might  not  say: 

The  Lord  help  us  to  keep  in  memory  our  ancestors  that  we  might 
be  willing  to  uphold  and  sustain  by  our  lives  and  all  that  we  possess,  that 
for  which  they  gave  so  much. 

The  Principle  of  Gathering 

If  we  thought  deeply  about  the  events  of  the  centennial  year, 
perhaps  we  were  stirred  by  the  realization  that  we  were  but  com- 
memorating the  operation  of  a  principle  that  is  as  old  as  the  human 
family,  a  principle  which  has  been  invoked  by  the  command  of  the 
Lord  in  every  gospel  dispensation.  I  refer  to  the  principle  of  gathering. 

The  first  reference  we  have,  in  the  revelations,  to  gatherings  of 
the  Lord's  faithful  people  was  that  spoken  of  when  Adam  gathered 
together  his  seven  righteous  sons,  from  Seth  to  Methuselah  and  all 
of  their  posterity,  in  the  valley  of  Adam-ondi-ahman,  and  there  he 
gave  them  his  last  blessing  and  prepared  them  for  the  appearance  of 
the  Lord  which  they  received  at  that  time. 

I  have  thought  it  more  than  mere  coincidence  that  one  of  the  first 
martyrs  in  this  dispensation,  David  W.  Patten,  a  member  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles,  lost  his  life  near  the  valley  of  Adam-ondi-ahman, 
that  same  valley  in  which  Adam  had  gathered  his  posterity,  which 
the  Lord  had  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  near  Wight's 
Ferry,  at  a  place  called  Spring  Hill,  Daviess  County,  Missouri.  To 
me  it  has  also  been  significant  that  this  martyrdom  resulted  directly 
from  the  obedience  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  the  commands  that  had 
been  given  to  them  to  gather  in  certain  places  as  members  of  the  newly 
restored  Church. 

It  was  the  lament  of  the  Master,  just  before  his  crucifixion: 

O,  Jerusalem,  Jerusalem  thou  that  killest  the  prophets  and  stonest  them 
which  are  sent  unto  thee,  how  often  would  I  have  gathered  thy  children  to- 
gether, even  as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under  her  wings,  and  ye  would 
not!    (Matt.  23:  37.) 

Apparently  the  Master  was  referring  to  the  repeated  revelations  he 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  4  First  Day 

had  given  to  the  prophets  from  Adam  down  to  his  time,  in  which  he 
had  told  of  not  only  the  scattering  of  the  children  of  Israel,  but  also 
of  a  subsequent  gathering.  To  Jeremiah  he  had  promised, 

...  I  will  take  you  one  of  a  city,  and  two  of  a  family,  and  I  will  bring 
you  unto  Zion: 

And  I  will  give  you  pastors  according  to  mine  heart,  which  shall  feed 
you  with  knowledge  and  understanding.    (Jeremiah  3:14-15.) 

To  Ezekiel  he  said: 

And  I  will  bring  you  out  from  the  people,  and  will  gather  you  out 
of  the  countries  wherein  ye  are  scattered,  with  a  mighty  hand,  and  with 
a  stretched  out  arm,  and  with  fury  poured  out. 

And  I  will  bring  you  into  the  wilderness  of  the  people,  and  there  will 
I  plead  with  you  face  to  face.    (Ezek.  20:  34,  35.) 

To  the  prophets  Isaiah  and  Micah,  he  told  of  the  time  when, 

...  the  mountain  of  the  Lord's  house  shall  be  established  in  the  top 
of  the  mountains,  and  shall  be  exalted  above  the  hills;  and  all  nations 
shall  flow  unto  it.    (Isaiah  2:2;  see  also  Micah  4:1.) 

An  apt  description  of  those  who  would  be  gathered  thus,  by 
command  of  the  Lord,  is  given  in  the  parable  of  the  Master,  when 
he  said  that: 

.  .  .  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  like  unto  a  net,  that  was  cast  into  the 
sea,  and  gathered  of  every  kind. 

Which,  when  it  was  full,  they  drew  to  shore,  and  sat  down,  and 
gathered  the  good  into  vessels,  but  cast  the  bad  away.  (Matthew  13:47- 
48.) 

The  Gathering  in  this  Dispensation 

The  first  command  to  gather,  in  this  dispensation,  was  within 
six  months  after  the  Church  was  organized.  The  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  in  announcing  this  revelation,  made  this  significant  declaration 
as  recorded  in  the  History  of  the  Church: 

.  .  .  We  soon  found  that  Satan  had  been  lying  in  wait  to  deceive,  and 
seeking  whom  he  might  devour.  (D.H.C.  1:109.) 

The  meaning  of  that  revelation  and  the  purpose  of  it  all  was  explained 
in  these  words: 

and  ye  are  called  to  bring  to  pass  the  gathering  of  mine  elect;  for 
mine  elect  hear  my  voice  and  harden  not  their  hearts; 

Wherefore  the  decree  hath  gone  forth  from  the  Father  that  they  shall 
be  gathered  in  unto  one  place  upon  the  face  of  this  land,  to  prepare  their 
hearts  and  to  be  prepared  in  all  things  against  the  day  whein  tribulation 
and  desolation  are  sent  forth  upon  the  wicked. 

For  the  hour  is  nigh  and  the  day  soon  at  hand  when  the  earth  is  ripe; 
and  all  the  proud  and  they  that  do  wickedly  shall  be  as  stubble;  and  I 
will  burn  them  up  saith  the  Lord  of  Hosts,  that  wickedness  shall  not  be 
upon  the  earth.    (D.  &  C.  29:7-9.) 

Three  years  later  the  Lord  again  spoke  upon  this  subject: 
.  .  .  It  is  my  will,  that  all  they  who  call  on  my  name,  and  war- 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


55 


ship  me  according  to  mine  everlasting  gospel,  should  gather  together,  and 
stand  in  holy  places.    (Ibid.,  101:22.) 

Thus,  the  Lord  has  said  plainly  to  his  Saints  that  the  gathering  was 
to  prepare  their  hearts  "according  to  the  everlasting  gospel,"  and  to 
be  prepared  in  all  things  "by  standing  in  holy  places." 

Six  years  after  the  Church  was  organized,  the  keys  of  gathering 
were  committed  to  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  in  the  Kirtland 
Temple.  The  record  of  that  marvelous  restoration  is  given  in  these 
words: 

After  this  vision  closed,  the  heavens  were  again  opened  unto  us;  and 
Moses  appeared  before  us,  and  committed  unto  us  the  keys  of  the  gather- 
ing of  Israel  from  the  four  parts  of  the  earth,  and  the  leading  of  the  ten 
tribes  from  the  land  of  the  north.    (Ibid.,  110:11.) 

The  spirit  of  gathering  has  been  with  the  Church  from  the  days  of 
that  restoration.  Those  who  are  of  the  blood  of  Israel,  have  a  right- 
eous desire  after  they  are  baptized,  to  gather  together  with  the  body 
of  the  Saints  at  the  designated  place.  This,  we  have  come  to  recog- 
nize, is  but  the  breath  of  God  upon  those  who  are  converted  turning 
them  to  the  promises  made  to  their  fathers. 


But  the  designation  of  gathering  places  is  qualified  in  another 
revelation  by  the  Lord  to  which  I  would  desire  to  call  your  attention. 
After  designating  certain  places  in  that  day  where  the  Saints  were  to 
gather,  the  Lord  said  this: 

Until  the  day  cometh  when  there  is  found  no  more  room  for  them; 
and  then  I  have  other  places  which  I  will  appoint  unto  them.  (Ibid.,  101: 
21.) 

Thus,  clearly,  the  Lord  has  placed  the  responsibility  for  direct- 
ing the  work  of  gathering  in  the  hands  of  the  leaders  of  the  Church  to 
whom  he  will  reveal  his  will  where  and  when  such  gatherings  would 
take  place  in  the  future.  It  would  be  well — before  the  frightening 
events  concerning  the  fulfilment  of  all  God's  promises  and  predictions 
are  upon  us,  that  the  Saints  in  every  land  prepare  themselves  and  look 


Presidency  of  this  Church  as  to  where  they  shall  be  gathered  and 
not  be  disturbed  in  their  feelings  until  such  instruction  is  given  to 
them  as  it  is  revealed  by  the  Lord  to  the  proper  authority. 


Again,  in  1838,  the  Lord  gave  a  further  reason  for  the  gathering: 

Verily  I  say  unto  you  all:    Arise  and  shine  forth,  that  thy  light  may 
be  a  standard  for  the  nations; 

And  that  the  gathering  together  upon  the  land  of  Zion,  and  upon  her 
stakes,  may  be  for  defense,  and  for  a  refuge  from  the  storm,  and  from 
wrath  when  it  shall  be  poured  out  without  mixture  upon  the  whole  earth. 


Places  of  Gathering 


forward  to  the  instruction 


Refuge  from  the  Storm 


(Ibid.,  115:5-6.) 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  4  First  Dag 

Why  was  this  to  be  called  a  "place  of  refuge"  and  a  "place  of  safety"? 
Said  the  Lord  in  another  revelation, 

...  the  glory  of  the  Lord  shall  be  there,  and  the  terror  of  the  Lord 
also  shall  be  there,  insomuch  that  the  wicked  will  not  come  unto  it,  and 
it  shall  be  called  Zion.    (Ibid.,  45:67.) 

The  time  when  these  things  shall  be  would  be  as  the  Lord  said  when : 

...  the  wicked  shall  slay  the  wicked,  and  fear  shall  come  upon  every 

man; 

And  the  saints  also  shall  hardly  escape;  nevertheless,  I,  the  Lord, 
am  with  them,  and  will  come  down  in  heaven  from  the  presence  of  my 
Father  and  consume  the  wicked  with  unquenchable  fire.    (Ibid.,  63:33-34.) 

Another  and  further  reason  for  the  gathering  is  given  us  with 
this  revelation: 

Wherefore,  seeing  that  I,  the  Lord,  have  decreed  all  these  things  upon 
the  face  of  the  earth,  I  will  that  my  saints  should  be  assembled  upon  the 
land  of  Zion; 

And  that  every  man  should  take  righteousness  in  his  hands  and  faith- 
fulness upon  his  loins,  and  lift  a  warning  voice  unto  the  inhabitants  of 
the  earth;  and  declare  both  by  word  and  by  flight  that  desolation  shall 
come  upon  the  wicked.    (Ibid.,  63  :  36-37.) 

As  we  sit  here  today,  we  should  be  mindful  of  the  fact  that  we  are 
those  of  whom  these  revelations  have  spoken.  We  are  those  who  have 
been  gathered  from  out  of  spiritual  Babylon,  or  perhaps  we  represent 
the  second  or  third  or  even  the  fourth  or  fifth  generation  of  those  who 
heeded  the  call  and  felt  the  spirit  of  gathering.  Just  as  was  the  case 
in  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  so  in  our  day  the  leaders 
of  the  Church  have  told  us  that  "Satan  has  been  lying  in  wait  to  de- 
ceive, and  seeking  whom  he  might  devour." 

Warning  of  Dangers 

As  I  have  thought  about  these  things,  I  have  been  sobered  by  the 
realization  that  during  my  lifetime  three  presidents  of  this  Church 
have  spoken  upon  those  dangers  which  are  within  the  Church  which 
are  seeking  to  destroy  us  and  to  defeat  the  purpose  of  our  gathering. 

It  was  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  who  said: 

There  are  at  least  three  dangers  that  threaten  the  Church  within,  and 
the  authorities  need  to  awaken  to  the  fact  that  the  people  should  be  warn- 
ed unceasingly  against  them.  As  I  see  these,  they  are  flattery  of  prominent 
men  in  the  world,  false  educational  ideas,  and  sexual  impurity. 

But  the  third  subject  mentioned,  personal  purity,  is  perhaps  of  greater 
importance  than  either  of  the  other  two.  We  believe  in  one  standard 
of  morality  for  men  and  women.  If  purity  of  life  is  neglected,  all  other 
dangers  set  in  upon  us  like  the  rivers  of  waters  when  the  flood  gates 
are  opened.    {Gospel  Doctrine,  1939  ed.  312-313.) 

It  was  President  Grant  during  his  declining  years,  who  repeated- 
ly— in  all  our  conferences  and  in  all  his  addresses — urged  upon  the 
Latter-day  Saints  to  keep  God's  commandments,  time  and  again  im- 
pressing upon  us  that  there  was  no  greater  mission  for  him  to  perform, 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


57 


as  the  President  of  the  Church,  than  to  so  warn  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
By  divine  inspiration,  he  directed  a  movement  to  build  brotherhood 
in  this  day,  designed  to  foster  the  greatest  security  possible  in  this 
material  world.  Much  has  been  done  to  bring  about  the  full  purposes 
of  the  Church  welfare  program,  before  it  is  too  late,  in  order  to  pro- 
vide that  "defense"  and  that 

.  .  .  refuge  from  the  storm,  and  from  wrath  when  it  will  be  poured 
out  without  mixture  upon  the  whole  earth.  (D.  &  C.  115:6.) 

President  George  Albert  Smith,  who  presides  over  us  today,  has 
repeatedly  counseled  the  Authorities  of  the  Church  and  in  his  public 
addresses  has  spoken  of  the  dangers  that  are  confronting  the  homes 
of  our  people  today — the  carelessness  of  marriage  out  of  the  Church 
and  out  of  the  temple,  the  lack  of  the  sanctity  of  marriage,  and  a  lack 
of  an  understanding  of  the  sanctity  of  the  marriage  covenant;  the  in- 
crease of  divorce  among  us,  the  failure  to  hold  sacred  the  covenants 
we  have  made  in  the  House  of  the  Lord.  Well  might  we  remember  the 
warning  of  the  Lord  to  John,  the  Revelator,  when  he  said: 

Behold,  I  come  as  a  thief.   Blessed  is  he  that  watcheth,  and  keepeth 
his  garments,  lest  he  walk  naked,  and  they  see  his  shame.    (Rev.  16:15.) 

As  I  think  of  the  counsel  of  these,  our  leaders,  that  has  been  given 
us  from  time  to  time,  I  have  been  reminded  of  a  story  told  of  a  presi- 
dent of  one  of  our  great  universities  in  Nova  Scotia  who  called  his 
representatives  to  him  and  sent  them  out  to  teach  a  great  principle  to 
the  humble  fishermen  of  that  land.  His  parting  counsel  to  them  was: 

"If  you  want  to  educate  a  man,  you  have  to  let  him  see  a  ghost." 

Defense  Against  Evils 

May  the  Latter-day  Saints  be  haunted,  if  it  need  be,  by  the  mem- 
ory of  those  who  pioneered  the  work  of  gathering  in  this  dispensation, 
and  be  haunted  by  the  memory  of  the  teachings  and  work  of  Adam 
and  Moses;  of  Joseph  Smith  and  Brigham  Young  and  others  of  the 
prophets  and  the  purposes  for  which  the  gospel  has  been  restored, 
which  the  Lord  told  us  in  his  preface  to  the  revelations  was  because 
he  knew  the  calamities  which  were  about  to  come  forth  upon  the  chil- 
dren of  men. 

May  we,  as  a  people,  see  the  "ghost"  of  our  possibilities  and  that 
which  we  might  be  able  to  accomplish  by  our  own  strength  and  ability 
to  stir  us  up  to  deeds  of  righteousness  and  to  build  a  greater  brother- 
hood to  provide  that  defense  against  the  evils  which  threaten  to  de- 
stroy our  homes  today. 

May  we  do  all  this  in  preparation  for  the  coming  of  the  Son  of 
Man  which,  I  pray  God,  may  not  be  long  delayed.  God  speed  us  in 
that  preparation  while  it  is  yet  day  and  increase  within  us  the  testi- 
mony of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  And  as 
we  may  live  in  the  day  when  the  terrors  and  trials  and  struggles,  all 
foretold  by  the  prophets,  come  to  pass  when  "fear  shall  be  upon 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  4  First  Day 

every  man"  and  when  it  shall  seem  that  there  is  no  place  safe  upon 
the  earth,  may  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  are  living  the  command- 
ments of  God  be  comforted  again  by  those  words  with  which  the 
Master  has  comforted  those  who  have  lived  before  us  in  similar  times. 
"Be  humble,  and  the  Lord  will  take  you  by  the  hand,  as  it  were,  and 
give  you  answer  to  your  prayers."  "Be  still,  and  know  that  I  am  God." 
For  I  bear  you  solemn  witness  that  I  know  these  things  told  by  the 
prophets  are  true.  I  know  that  those  who  have  counseled  us  in  our 
day  of  the  dangers  that  are  before  us  have  spoken  as  the  prophets 
of  the  Living  God  and  I  bear  you  this  testimony  humbly,  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  THOMAS  C.  ROMNEY 
Former  President  of  the  Central  States  Mission 

I  have  occasion,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  to  be  thankful  for  the 
radio,  and  I  should  make  an  acknowledgment  at  the  beginning  of  my 
talk.  I  felt  somewhat  indisposed  this  morning,  and  knowing  that  the 
building  here  would  be  very  crowded  I  felt  that  I  would  do  well  to 
remain  home  and  listen  to  the  addresses  and  singing  over  the  radio. 
While  sitting  there  I  heard  President  Smith  call  the  names  of  one 
or  two  of  the  mission  presidents  who  had  presided,  asking  them  to 
come  to  the  stand.  I  thought  it  was  about  time  I  was  getting  up  to  the 
Tabernacle.  I  appreciate  very  much  the  opportunity  I  had  of  laboring 
in  the  mission  field  and  particularly  in  the  Central  States  Mission,  one 
of  the  most  historic  spots  in  the  world  to  Latter-day  Saints.  I  had 
filled  a  mission  in  the  Southern  states  for  three  years  and  enjoyed  my 
labors  there  immensely,  and  had  filled  another  short-term  mission. 
I  want  to  say  this  last  experience  was  one  of  the  sweetest  in  my  life, 
notwithstanding  there  came  a  sorrow  into  my  life  such  as  I  have  never 
before  experienced.  I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  my  beloved  com- 
panion who  died  in  the  service  of  her  fellow  men,  and  I  want  to  thank 
these  kind  brethren  who  did  so  much  to  comfort  me  in  the  hour  of 
affliction.  Sister  Romney  was  loved  by  everybody  in  the  mission 
for  her  sweetness  of  character,  her  humility  and  her  fine  administra- 
tive ability.  She  was  brought  here  for  burial,  and  at  the  depot  we 
were  met  by  President  Smith  and  a  number  of  the  Twelve  and  other 
leading  brethren.  We  were  fortunate  to  have  President  Smith,  Presi- 
dent McKay,  Apostle  Widtsoe,  and  other  prominent  men  speak  at 
the  funeral  service. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  want  to  say  a  few  words  about  this 
mission,  the  spirit  that  prevails  throughout  the  Central  States,  and 
compare  that  spirit,  the  changed  conditions  there,  with  what  obtained 
when  our  people  first  went  there  in  the  early  history  of  the  Church. 
You  all  know,  I  am  sure,  that  the  Central  States  Mission  comprises 
the  four  central  states  of  the  Union,  Missouri,  Arkansas,  Oklahoma, 
and  Kansas.  Soon  after  the  Church  was  organized,  just  a  few  months, 
four  brethren  were  called  by  the  prophet,  by  the  spirit  of  revelation, 


ELDER  THOMAS  C.  ROMNEY 


59 


to  go  down  on  the  borders  of  the  Lamanites  and  preach  to  them  the 
gospel.  You  will  recall  that  Parley  P.  Pratt,  and  Oliver  Cowdery  were 
two  of  these  men  who  were  thus  chosen.  On  their  journey  up  to  Ohio 
they  were  successful  in  baptizing  several  hundred  into  the  Church, 
which  resulted  in  the  removal  of  the  Church  from  Fayette,  Seneca 
County,  N.  Y.  to  Kirtland,  Ohio.  These  brethren  endured  a  great 
many  hardships  on  their  journey  of  one  thousand  miles  from  Ohio 
to  Independence.  They  tell  us  that  they  waded  through  snow  at  times 
waist  deep.  Now  Independence  at  that  time  was  on  the  western  fron- 
tiers of  America.  It  was  a  great  outpost.  Caravans  that  made  their  way 
down  to  the  Southwest  and  also  the  Pacific  coast  were  outfitted  there. 
Independence  at  that  time  was  only  three  years  old,  being  established 
in  1827.  These  brethren  were  not  successful  among  the  Indians  be- 
cause of  prejudice  against  them  which  was  engendered  in  the  hearts 
of  these  red  men  by  the  Indian  agents,  but  their  mission  there  resulted 
in  a  revelation  coming  to  the  Prophet  in  which  he  was  told  that  Inde- 
pendence should  become  the  center  of  Zion.  It  wasn't  long  until  he 
and  a  number  of  other  brethren  came  down  to  Independence,  and 
they  were  followed  by  a  great  many  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  en- 
gaged in  building  up  and  beautifying  that  place.  They  established  a 
paper  there,  The  Evening  and  the  Morning  Star,  and  Gilbert  and 
Whitney  established  a  mercantile  establishment  there.  But  the  enemy 
came  up  against  them,  and  our  people  to  the  number  of  twelve  hun- 
dred who  had  gathered  in  Jackson  County  were  driven  from  their 
homes  in  the  dead  of  winter.  Along  the  Blue  River  we  are  told  that 
something  like  a  hundred  twenty-five  houses  were  burned  by  the  mob. 
In  one  settlement  there,  where  there  were  about  a  hundred  ninety 
odd  people,  composed  almost  altogether  of  women  and  children,  these 
Latter-day  Saints  were  driven  down  toward  the  Missouri  River  and 
one  writer,  not  a  member  of  the  Church,  declared  you  could  trace  them 
by  the  blood  that  flowed  from  their  feet.  I  would  like  to  read  to  you  a 
statement  made  by  Parley  P.  Pratt  with  reference  to  this  expulsion: 
"The  shore  of  the  Missouri  began  to  be  lined  on  both  sides  of 
the  ferry  with  men,  women  and  children,  goods,  wagons,  boxes,  pro- 
visions, etc.  while  the  ferry  was  constantly  employed.  When  night 
again  closed  upon  us  the  cottonwood  bottom  had  much  the  appearance 
of  a  camp  meeting.  Hundreds  of  people  were  seen  in  every  direction, 
some  in  tents  and  some  in  the  open  air  around  their  fires  while  the 
rain  descended  in  torrents.  Husbands  were  inquiring  for  their  wives, 
wives  for  their  husbands,  parents  for  children,  and  children  for  par- 
ents. Some  had  the  good  fortune  to  escape  with  their  families,  house- 
hold goods  and  some  provisions  while  others  knew  not  the  fate  of 
their  friends  and  had  lost  all  their  goods.  The  scene  was  indescrib- 
able and  I  am  sure,  would  have  melted  the  hearts  of  any  people  on  the 
earth  except  their  blind  oppressors  and  a  blind  and  ignorant  com- 
munity. People  were  expelled  in  a  body  from  Jackson  County,  Miss- 
ouri, into  Clay  County  to  the  north  and  into  other  countries  farther 
north,  to  the  northeast.  You  remember  that  our  people  built  up  an- 


60  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  4  First  Dag 

other  city  to  take  the  place  of  Independence  as  their  headquarters, 
known  as  Far  West.  There  another  temple  site  was  dedicated  to  the 
building  of  a  house  of  the  Lord.  These  Latter-day  Saints  were  not 
long  to  enjoy  the  comforts  they  had  gathered  around  them  at  Far 
West,  but  under  the  cruel  edict  of  Governor  Boggs,  they  were  driven 
out  of  the  country.  You  will  remember  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and 
a  number  of  the  brethren  were  incarcerated  in  Richmond  Jail.  You 
remember  the  event  when  the  drunken  guards  were  boasting  of  the 
indignities  they  had  heaped  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  were 
saying  what  they  were  going  to  do  with  them  in  the  future.  You  re- 
member the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  with  chains  still  clinging  to  him, 
arose  and  rebuked  them  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  and  they  quailed  at 
his  feet.  He  and  his  brethren,  a  number  of  them,  were  taken  to  Liberty 
Jail  and  there  they  were  treated  very  inhumanly.  You  remember  upon 
two  or  three  different  occasions  they  were  fed  poison,  and  on  another 
occasion  they  were  offered  human  flesh  to  eat  and  in  agony  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  cried  out  thus:  'Oh  God,  where  art  thou,  and 
where  is  the  pavilion  that  covereth  thy  hiding  place?  How  long  shall 
thy  hand  be  stayed  and  thine  eye,  yea  thy  pure  eye  behold  from  the 
eternal  heavens  the  wrongs  of  thy  people  and  of  thy  servants  and 
thine  ear  be  penetrated  with  their  cries.  Yes,  yea,  oh  Lord,  how  long 
shall  they  suffer  these  wrongs  and  unlawful  oppressions  before  thine 
heart  shall  be  softened  toward  them  and  thy  bowels  be  moved  with 
compassion  toward  them.  Oh,  Lord,  God  Almighty,  Maker  of  heaven, 
earth  and  seas  and  of  all  things  that  in  them  are,  and  who  controllest 
and  subjectest  the  devil  and  the  dark  dominion  of  Sheol!  Stretch 
forth  thy  hand,  let  thine  eyes  pierce,  let  thy  pavilion  be  taken  up,  let 
thy  hiding  place  be  no  longer  covered.  Let  thine  ear  be  inclined,  let 
thine  heart  be  softened  and  thy  bowels  move  with  compassion  toward 
us.  Let  thine  anger  be  kindled  against  our  enemies  and  in  the  fury 
of  thine  heart  with  thy  sword  avenge  us  of  our  wrongs.  Remember 
thy  suffering  saints,  oh  our  God  and  thy  servants  will  rejoice  in  thy 
name  forever.'  Then  the  voice  of  the  Lord  came  to  him  thus:  'My 
son,  peace  be  unto  thy  soul.  Thine  adversity  and  thine  affliction  shall 
be  but  a  small  moment.  Then  if  thou  endureth  well  God  shall  exalt 
thee  on  high.  Thou  shalt  triumph  over  all  thy  foes.  Thy  friends  do 
stand  by  thee  and  they  shall  hail  thee  again  with  warm  hearts  and 
friendly  hand.'  " 

My  brethren  and  sisters  there  is  a  great  change  among  the  people 
of  Missouri  and  the  other  states  in  the  central  part  of  the  United 
States.  I  want  to  say  that  there  is  no  mission  in  the  world,  in  my 
opinion,  where  the  president  of  the  mission  is  given  greater  consider- 
ation than  in  the  City  of  Independence.  My  predecessor,  Brother 
John  F.  Bowman,  was  honored  by  presiding  over  the  Chamber  of 
Commerce  for  two  sessions.  These  presidents,  for  a  number  of  years, 
have  been  members  not  only  of  the  Chamber  of  Commerce,  but  of  the 
Kiwanis  Club,  the  outstanding  organization  of  that  kind  in  the  city 
as  well  as  belonging  to  the  Ministerial  Association. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  61 


I  want  to  say  to  you  that  the  people  generally  are  very  kind  to 
the  missionaries,  and  I  want  to  say  this  that  it  is  necessary  that  we 
make  friendships  among  the  people.  I  don't  care  what  denomination 
they  belong  to  or  whether  they  belong  to  any  denomination  at  all,  we 
must  be  tolerant.  We  must  make  friends  of  them  before  we  can  convert 
them  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  So  I  rejoice 
that  these  people  are  looking  favorably  upon  us.  I  had  the  opportunity 
while  there  of  delivering  the  baccalaureate  address  at  one  of  the  great 
universities  in  Missouri.  Again  we  had  the  opportunity  of  going  to 
Lamoni  which  was  the  headquarters  of  the  Reorganized  Church  before 
they  came  to  Independence.  Israel  Smith,  the  President  of  the  Church 
was  kind  enough  to  furnish  us  with  a  conveyance  there  and  back.  It 
was  a  brotherhood  affair.  We  felt  honored  that  I  had  been  called 
upon  to  deliver  the  talk  upon  that  occasion.  The  one  who  introduced 
us  said,  "This  is  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  our  church  that  we 
have  ever  conferred  an  honor  like  this  upon  an  elder  from  Utah." 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  love  all  mankind.  I  think  there  is  no 
person  in  all  the  world  whom  I  cannot  love  and  extend  the  hand  of 
fellowship,  especially  those  who  are  striving  to  serve  the  Lord.  In 
closing  I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  to  you  that  I  know  that  this  is 
the  work  of  the  Lord.  These  brethren  who  have  succeeded  Joseph 
Smith  are  indeed  prophets  of  God  as  they  have  presided  over  this 
Church.  I  love  this  man  who  presides  at  the  present  time  with  all  my 
heart,  and  I  say  God  bless  him  and  all  of  these  fine  brethren  who  are 
associated  with  them  in  presiding  over  the  affairs  of  this  great  latter- 
day  work. 

God  help  us  to  be  faithful  and  true  to  the  covenants  which  we 
have  made  with  him  that  our  testimonies  may  grow  daily,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

We  have  a  message  of  greeting  from  Cornelius  Zappey,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Netherlands  Mission,  in  which  he  sends  the  good  will  and 
the  greetings  of  that  particular  mission. 

Again  I  call  attention  to  these  beautiful  calla  lilies  that  were  sent 
by  the  Berkeley  Stake  in  California,  which  have  been  such  an  orna- 
ment in  our  meeting  today. 

I  am  sure  you  all  feel  as  I  do  to  bless  these  people — the  Tabernacle 
Choir  and  the  organist — -that  have  furnished  such  delightful  music 
for  us  during  this  conference  today. 

The  "Hallelujah  Chorus,"  from  the  "Mount  of  Olives,"  by  Beet- 
hoven, will  be  sung  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir.  The  closing  prayer  will 
be  offered  by  President  Orval  T.  Mortensen  of  the  North  Rexburg 
Stake. 

We  shall  stand  adjourned  at  the  conclusion  of  this  meeting  until 
tomorrow  at  ten  o'clock,  and  the  proceedings  of  the  session  tomorrow 
will  be  broadcast  over  the  same  radio  stations  that  have  been  an- 
nounced here  for  today.  Tomorrow  morning  the  audience  should  be 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  4  First  Day 

in  their  places  not  later  than  ten  minutes  before  the  hour  for  opening 
the  meeting,  which  is  ten  o'clock. 

Any  important  messages  that  might  have  been  delivered  here  will 
be  broadcast  at  the  conclusion  of  this  meeting  over  the  loud  speaking 
system  on  the  grounds,  so  if  you  hear  the  broadcast  out  there,  listen 
to  see  if  there  are  any  messages  you  are  interested  in. 

I  am  sure  we  have  all  been  fed  the  bread  of  life,  and  I  for  one 
desire  to  express  my  gratitude  to  God  for  the  opportunity  I  have 
had  of  being  here  today  with  these  great  audiences  and  rejoicing  un- 
der the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty. 

The  Choir  sang:  "Hallelujah  Chorus,"  from  the  "Mount  of 
Olives." 

Elder  Orval  T.  Mortensen,  President  of  the  North  Rexburg 
Stake,  offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Monday  morning,  April  5,  at  10:00. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  third  session  of  the  Conference  convened  Monday  morn- 
ing, April  5,  at  10:00. 

Again  the  building  was  crowded,  and,  in  addition,  many  met 
together  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  enjoyed  the  services  by  means 
of  amplifying  and  television  equipment. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

We  have  pleasure  this  beautiful  morning  in  greeting  you,  and 
we  hope  that  you  are  all  comfortable.  The  Lord  blessed  us  wonder- 
fully yesterday.  We  had  a  good  day,  good  weather,  and  now  the  sun 
is  shining  outside,  and  I  hope  it  will  shine  in  our  hearts.  It  is  a  joy  to 
be  here  in  this  tabernacle  this  morning.  I  want  to  take  this  occasion 
to  thank  all  of  you  who  were  so  considerate  and  kind  to  me  yesterday. 
I  appreciate  the  many  kind  expressions  and  all  your  remembrances. 
They  will  never  be  forgotten. 

This  morning  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  will  conduct  our 
services,  so  we  will  now  turn  the  meeting  over  to  him. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

This  is  the  third  session  of  the  1 1 8th  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened  in 
the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

There  are  on  the  stand  this  morning  all  of  the  General  Authori- 
ties of  the  Church  except  Elder  Stephen  L  Richards,  who  is  touring 
the  South  American  missions,  Elder  Matthew  Cowley,  who  is  pre- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


63 


siding  over  the  Pacific  missions,  Elder  Thomas  E.  McKay,  who  is 
convalescing  from  a  minor  operation,  and  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  who  is 
in  Europe  in  charge  of  the  European  Mission. 

This  service  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  at  Salt  Lake  City,  and 
by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the  following  stations:  KDSH  at 
Boise,  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at  Pocatello, 
KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at  Vernal,  and  over  KTYL  at  Mesa  by 
transcription. 

Any  important  messages  and  calls  that  come  to  us  for  persons 
supposed  to  be  in  attendance  at  the  conference  will  be  announced 
at  the  dismissal  of  this  meeting  over  the  loud  speaking  system  on  the 
grounds.  Everyone  would  do  well  to  listen  carefully  to  such  an- 
nouncements. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  will  be  rendered  by  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Mixed  Chorus,  Elder  Franklin  Madsen,  conduct- 
ing and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

Station  KSL  has  set  up  for  us  a  television  installation  which  will 
enable  those  sitting  in  the  Assembly  Hall  to  see  as  well  as  hear  the 
speakers,  and  the  choirs  that  sing  for  us.  The  television  pictures  will 
not  be  all  that  we  hope  they  will  become  some  day,  but  they  will  be 
sufficiently  good  to  be  a  great  help  to  those  who  are  seated  in  the 
Assembly  Hall. 

For  the  beautiful  calla  lilies  that  you  see  here  on  the  stand  we 
are  indebted  to  the  good  people  of  the  Berkeley  Stake  in  California, 
who  have  sent  them  to  us  with  their  compliments.  These  flowers  add 
much  to  our  pleasure  and  comfort  on  this  occasion. 

We  will  begin  this  morning  service  by  the  mixed  chorus  singing : 
"Glory  to  God  in  the  Highest,"  by  Pergolesi. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Henry  R.  Cooper 
of  the  Logan  Stake. 


Singing  by  the  Choir:  "Glory  to  God  in  the  Highest." 

Elder  Henry  R.  Cooper,  President  of  the  Logan  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus  sang:  "Open 
Our  Eyes,"  by  Macfarlane,  solo  by  Elder  Moyle  Brown. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  group  of  choice  young  men  and  women  from  Brigham  Young 
University  is  an  inspiration  even  aside  from  the  glorious  singing.  Just 
to  look  at  them  and  realize  what  they  represent,  I  am  sure,  fills  each 
heart  with  thanksgiving.  They  are  here  to  render  service  today,  and 
we  appreciate  their  presence.  I  was  just  thinking  as  I  listened  to  these 
inspiring  opening  songs  that  every  one  of  these  young  men  and  young 
women  has  been  taught  by  a  mother  and  a  father  to  be  true  to  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  has  been  taught  that  to  keep  himself  or  herself 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  5  Second  Day 

unspotted  from  the  world  will  bring  the  greatest  joy  and  happiness 
in  this  life  and  in  the  world  to  come.  I  am  thankful  for  an  institution 
in  the  Church  which  associates  with  all  the  sciences  and  all  the  learn- 
ing given  in  the  institutions  of  the  state  the  teachings  of  the  principles 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  know  they  are  true,  and  so  may  these 
young  people,  and  I  pray  that  they  will  always  hold  to  that  truth. 

Some  of  their  mothers  are  worried.  Some  of  you  mothers  have 
called  by  telephone;  some  of  you  have  called  in  person  and  expressed 
deep  concern  over  the  conditions  in  the  world.  Your  pleas  and  ques- 
tions have  prompted  what  I  desire  to  say  this  morning.  I  wish  all  the 
world  could  partake  of  this  peaceful  spirit,  and  the  hope  and  inspira- 
tion that  we  received  in  the  sessions  of  the  conference  that  were  held 
yesterday,  and  the  encouragement  from  the  excellent  messages  given, 
and  I  pray  that  I  may  say  a  word  or  two  that  will  put  you  at  peace 
and  increase  that  spirit  of  contentment. 

A  Guide  to  Peace 

Jesus  said  on  one  occasion  to  his  disciples  who*  were  somewhat 
worried  and  anxious  because  Jesus  had  told  them  he  was  going  to 
leave  them, 

Let  not  your  heart  be  troubled:  ye  believe  in  God,  believe  also  in 
me.  (John  14:1.) 

In  that  one  sentence,  Jesus  gives  both  a  comforting  admonition  and  a 
guide  to  contentment  and  peace. 

We  are  living  in  a  troublous  age.  Many  people  in  the  Church, 
as  millions  in  the  world,  are  stirred  with  anxiety;  hearts  are  heavy  with 
feelings  of  foreboding.  For  the  third  time  in  half  a  century  lowering 
war  clouds  threaten  world  peace.  O  foolish  man!  Will  he  never  profit 
by  the  experiences  of  the  past!  The  responsibility  of  choice  always 
rests  upon  each  normal  individual.  Never  was  that  responsibility 
greater  than  today.  A  former  member  of  the  Deseret  Sunday  School 
Union  Board  ( author  of  an  excellent  little  work,  Out  of  the  Ashes ) 
expresses  the  thought  succinctly  thus: 

What  the  people  now  think  and  do,  or  what  they  fail  to  think,  or 
what  they  fail  to  do  means  which  way  to  this  generation,  and  means  what 
chance  to  the  generation  next  to  come. 

The  Need  for  Repentance 

A  leading  businessman,  Mr.  W.  T.  Holliday,  president  of  the 
Standard  Oil  Company  of  Ohio,  in  an  article  captioned,  "Our  Final 
Choice,"  declares  that 

.  .  .  whenever  a  civilization  is  faced  with  a  new  and  fundamental 
challenge,  there  is  only  one  thing  that  can  save  it  from  decline  and  fall — 
its  men  and  women  must  change  their  habits  of  thought  to  meet  the  chal- 
lenge.  Either  they  meet  their  new  world  with  new  thinking,  or  they  go 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  65 

Though  with  a  different  ideal  in  mind,  that  is  the  advice  which 
Peter  gave  the  multitude  on  the  day  of  Pentecost,  when  in  perplexity 
they  cried:  "Men  and  brethren,  what  shall  we  do?"  His  answer  was: 

.  .  .  Repent,  and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost. 

For  the  promise  is  unto  you,  and  to  your  children,  and  to  all  that  are 
afar  off,  even  as  many  as  the  Lord  our  God  shall  call.  (Acts  2:37-39.) 

To  repent  is  to  change  one's  mind  or  one's  heart  with  regard  to 
past  or  intended  action,  conduct,  etc.,  on  account  of  regret  or  dis- 
satisfaction. 

Individuals,  groups,  and  nations  viewing  with  alarm  the  many 
critical  national,  industrial,  and  moral  problems  are  hoping  that  "some 
means  will  be  found  to  turn  our  misdirected  powers  into  new  channels, 
leading  to  the  establishment  of  new  and  prosperous  conditions." 

Spiritual  Readiness 

Radio  and  press  commentators,  contributors  to  magazines,  edi- 
torial writers  and  statesmen  suggest  various  plans  and  policies  as  so- 
lutions of  our  difficulties  and  perplexities.  One  of  the  best  is  a  plan 
for  a  world  federation,  supported  by  a  sufficiently  strong  armament 
to  enforce  its  laws  and  statutes. 

One  great  objection  to  its  adoption,  however,  is  that  "human 
nature  is  not  spiritually  ready"  for  such  a  federation. 

It  is  of  this  "spiritual  readiness"  I  wish  to<  speak. 

It  is  the  duty  of  the  members  of  the  Church  to  hold  aloft  true 
spiritual  standards.  Then  we  shall  be  better  prepared  for  any  even- 
tuality brought  about  by  pagan  aggression.  These  principles  have 
been  proclaimed  in  all  ages.  They  are  simple,  easily  understood,  but 
all  too  generally  ignored. 

Warning  of  Moses  to  Israel 

Approximately  thirty-five  centuries  ago  Moses,  "the  human 
transmitter  of  the  greatest  human  conduct  code  of  all  time,"  warned 
the  people  of  Israel  as  follows: 

Therefore  thou  shalt  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  thy  God, 
to  walk  in  his  ways,  and  to  fear  him. 

For  the  Lord  thy  God  bringeth  thee  into  a  good  land,  a  land  of 
brooks  of  water,  of  fountains  and  depths  that  spring  out  of  valleys  and 
hills; 

A  land  of  wheat,  and  barley,  and  vines,  and  fig  trees,  and  pome- 
granates; a  land  of  oil  olive,  and  honey; 

A  land  wherein  thou  shalt  eat  bread  without  scarceness,  thou  shalt 
not  lack  any  thing  in  it;  a  land  whose  stones  are  iron,  and  out  of  whose 
hills  thou  mayest  dig  brass. 

When  thou  hast  eaten  and  art  full,  then  thou  shalt  bless  the  Lord  thy 
God  for  the  good  land  which  he  hath  given  thee. 

Beware  that  thou  forget  not  the  Lord  thy  God,  in  not  keeping  his  com- 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  5  Second  Day 

mandments,  and  his  judgments,  and  his  statutes,  which  I  command  thee 
this  day: 

Lest  when  thou  hast  eaten  and  art  full,  and  hast  built  goodly  houses, 
and  dwelt  therein: 

And  when  thy  herds  and  thy  flocks  multiply,  and  thy  silver  and  thy 
gold  is  multiplied,  and  all  that  thou  hast  is  multiplied; 

Then  thine  heart  be  lifted  up,  and  thou  forget  the  Lord  thy  God, 
which  brought  thee  forth.  .  .  . 

And  thou  say  in  thine  heart,  My  power  and  the  might  of  mine  hand 
hath  gotten  me  this  wealth. 

But  thou  shall  remember  the  Lord  thy  God:  for  it  is  he  that  giveth  thee 
power  to  get  wealth,  that  he  may  establish  his  covenant.  .  .  . 

And  it  shall  be,  if  thou  do  at  all  forget  the  Lord  thy  God,  and  walk  after 
other  gods,  and  serve  them,  and  worship  them,  I  testify  against  you  this 
day  that  ye  shall  surely  perish.  (Deut.  8:6-14,  17-19.) 

All  that  Moses  wrote  in  praise  of  the  richness  and  productivity 
of  the  Promised  Land,  and  more  than  he  wrote  can  be  applied  to  this 
great  land  of  America — a  land  of  corn,  wheat,  barley,  and  all  other 
kinds  of  grain — a  land  of  milk  and  honey — a  land  where  we  eat  bread 
without  scarceness — a  land  whose  stones  are  gold,  silver,  and  iron, 
and  out  of  whose  hills  we  dig  brass — a  land  aptly  called  the  "granary 
of  the  world." 

His  words  of  admonition  are  equally  applicable — ■ 

When  thou  hast  eaten  and  art  full,  then  thou  shalt  bless  the  Lord  thy 
God  for  the  good  land  which  he  hath  given  thee.  (Ibid.,  8:10.) 

That  was  the  message  to  ancient  Israel. 

"Let  Not  Your  Heart  Be  Troubled" 

Fifteen  hundred  years  later  a  little  group  of  men  faced  a  future 
that  was  just  as  threatening  and  foreboding  to  them  as  that  which  the 
world  faces  today.  The  men  in  that  group  were  Simon  Peter,  Thomas, 
Nathanael  of  Cana  in  Galilee,  James  and  John,  sons  of  Zebedee,  and 
two  others  of  his  disciples.  A  short  time  before  that  gloomy  period 
Jesus  had  said  to  them: 

!■  -  •         Let  not  your  heart  be  troubled:  ye  believe  in  God,  believe  also  in 
me.  (John  14:1.) 

He  promised  them  the  Comforter  who  would  testify  of  the  Christ, 
who  would  bring  all  things  to  their  remembrance,  who  would  show 
them  things  to  come. 

Notwithstanding  all  those  promises  and  divine  exhortations,  the 
disciples,  following  the  crucifixion  of  their  Lord,  were  depressed  in 
their  feelings.  Their  hopes  were  shattered.  Their  future,  so'  far  as 
Christ's  triumph  on  earth  was  concerned,  seemed  all  but  blighted. 
They  had  been  called  and  set  apart  to  be  "fishers"  of  men,  and  to 
Peter  had  been  given  the  keys  of  the  kingdom.  Notwithstanding  all 
this,  in  that  hour  of  despondency,  Peter  turned  to  his  old  vocation, 
and  said:  "I  go  a  fishing,"  and  the  others  replied,  "We  go  also  with 
thee."  (See  John  21:3,  15-18.) 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


67 


Charge  Given  to  Apostles  of  Christ 

They  were  in  that  state  of  mind  when  the  Resurrected  Christ  said 
to  the  discouraged  leader  of  the  Twelve:  "Simon,  son  of  Jonas,  lovest 
thou  me  more  than  these?"  Peter  answered,  "Yea,  Lord;  thou  knowest 
that  I  love  thee."  Said  the  Lord,  "Feed  my  sheep."  I  have  my  own 
interpretation  of  what  "these"  means.  Keep  in  mind,  will  you  please, 
that  it  was  his  vocation — what  he  would  get.  He  had  there  before 
him  the  products  of  his  morning's  fishing,  for  he  had  fished  all  night 
and  had  caught  nothing.  "Simon,  son  of  Jonas,  lovest  thou  me  more 
than  these?"  "Yea,  Lord,  thou  knowest,  I  love  thee."  "Feed  my  sheep." 

On  that  occasion  Peter  became  conscious  of  his  responsibility 
not  only  as  a  fisher  of  men,  but  also  as  a  shepherd  of  the  flock.  It  was 
then  that  he  sensed  finally  and  completely  the  full  meaning  of  the 
divine  injunction,  "Follow  thou  me." 

With  that  never-failing  light,  those  twelve  humble  men  succeeded 
in  changing  the  course  of  human  relations.  Writes  Beverley  Nichols: 

Twelve  simple  men  with  only  the  wind  to  bear  them  over  the  seas, 
with  only  a  few  pence  in  their  pockets,  and  a  shining  faith  in  their  hearts. 
They  fell  far  short  of  their  ideal;  their  words  were  twisted  and  mocked; 
and  false  temples  were  built  over  their  bones,  in  praise  of  a  Christ  they 
would  have  rejected.  And  yet,  by  the  light  of  their  inspiration,  many 
of  the  world's  loveliest  things  were  created,  and  many  of  the  world's 
finest  minds  inspired. 

If  twelve  men  did  that  nineteen  hundred  years  ago,  what  might 
not  twelve  men  do  today?  For  God  has  now  given  us  the  power  of 
"  whispering  across  space,  of  transmitting  our  thoughts  from  one  end  of 
the  earth  to  another.  What  shall  we  whisper — what  shall  we  think?  That 
is  the  question. 

Eternal  Principles  that!  Will  Bring  Peace 

The  world  wants  peace,  the  winning  of  which  seems  to  be  more 
difficult  than  the  winning  of  the  war. 

No  peace,  even  though  temporarily  obtained,  will  be  permanent 
unless  it  is  built  upon  the  solid  foundation  of  eternal  principles  enunci- 
ated in  the  two  incidents  I  have  mentioned. 

The  first  of  these  the  Lord  gave  to  Moses  on  Mount  Sinai — 
"Thou  shalt  worship  the  Lord  thy  God."  Consider  what  that  means. 
When  we  sincerely  accept  God  as  our  Father  and  make  him  the  center 
of  our  being,  we  become  conscious  of  a  new  aim  in  life.  No  longer  is 
the  chief  end  of  daily  life  merely  to  nourish  and  to  pamper  the  body 
as  all  animals  do.  Spiritual  attainment,  not  physical  indulgence,  be- 
comes the  chief  goal.  God  is  not  viewed  from  the  standpoint  of  what 
we  may  get  from  him,  but  what  we  may  give  to  him.  Only  in  the 
complete  surrender  of  our  inner  life  may  we  rise  above  the  selfish, 
sordid  pull  of  nature.  Divine  and  eternal  as  an  element  in  the  acqui- 
sition of  peace  is  Christ's  admonition, 

.  .  .  seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness. 

Of  equal  importance  is  the  acceptance  of  the  Son  of  God  as  the 
Savior  of  mankind. 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.  April  5  Second  Dap 

When  Jesus  was  talking  to  his  disciples,  just  immediately  pre- 
ceding his  betrayal,  explaining  to  them  that  he  would  have  to  leave 
them,  he  said:  "Ye  believe  in  God,  believe  also  in  me."  He  desired 
them  to  understand,  as  he  wants  the  whole  world  to  know,  that  only 
through  him  can  man  find  the  life  abundant.  Those  were  not  mere 
words  of  defiance  which  Peter  uttered  as  he  and  John  stood  prisoners 
before  the  high  priests.  He  proclaimed  an  eternal  truth  when  he  said: 

...  for  there  is  none  other  name  under  heaven  given  among  men, 
whereby  we  must  be  saved.  (Acts  4:12.) 

That  truth  is  reiterated  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants — 

...  all  men  must  repent  and  believe  on  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  worship  the  Father  in  his  name,  and  endure  in  faith  on  his  name  to 
the  end,  or  they  cannot  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  (D.  &  C.  20:29.) 

I  like  to  associate  with  that  word  "saved"  the  power  that  man 
gets  in  this  life  to  rise  above  his  animal  instincts  and  passions,  power 
to  overcome  or  resist  social  evils  that  blight  men's  and  women's  souls 
and  shut  them  out  not  only  from  the  peace  of  the  world,  but  also  from 
membership  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  Men  may  yearn  for  peace,  cry 
for  peace,  and  work  for  peace,  but  there  will  be  no  peace  until  they 
follow  the  path  pointed  out  by  the  Living  Christ. 

Confidence  in  Fellowmen 

A  third  essential  to  our  peace  of  mind,  and  eventually  to  the  peace 
of  nations,  is  to  keep  confidence  in  our  fellow  men.  You  say  how  can 
we  keep  confidence  when  men  are  so  corrupt?  I  answer  that  even  if 
two  or  three,  or  even  a  score  of  men  prove  themselves  dishonest  and 
wicked,  we  are  not  justified  in  losing  confidence  in  all  men.  Most 
people  are  honorable  and  upright — I  like  to  think  that — and  desirous 
to: 

...  do  justly,  and  to  love  mercy,  and  to  walk  humbly  with  thy 
God  (Micah  6:8.) 

Even  if  international  leaders  of  a  nation  or  of  five  nations  dis- 
avow their  Creator,  and  that's  what  they  are  saying  in  their  hearts, 
"my  power  and  the  might  of  mine  hand  have  got  me  this  wealth," 
and  even  deny  the  Christ  who  redeemed  them,  let  us  remember  that 
ten  times  that  number  of  nations  still  profess  to  believe  in  God  and  in 
individual  freedom. 

These  three  principles — faith  in  God — acceptance  of  Christ  as 
the  Savior  of  men — confidence  in  our  fellow  men — are  summed  up 
by  the  Savior  as  follows: 

.  .  .  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with 
all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind. 

This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment 

And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as  thy- 
self.   (Matthew  22:37-39.) 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


69 


Slander  Overcome  By  Good  Works 

We  learn  from  authentic  sources  that  communistic  countries, 
operating  from  behind  the  "iron  curtain"  accuse  democratic  countries, 
and  particularly  the  United  States,  of  virtually  every  political  and 
moral  crime  under  the  sun.  Our  democracy  is  described  as  an  instru- 
ment to  enslave  people. 

Such  slander  has  been  compared  to  slugs  that  crawl  over  our  cab- 
bages. You  may  kill  them,  but  there  is  still  the  slime. 

The  surest  method  against  such  slander  is  to  live  it  down  in  persever- 
ance in  well  doing,  and  by  prayer  to  God  that  he  would  cure  the  dis- 
tempered mind  of  those  who  traduce  and  injure  us. 

To  the  Church  today  are  applicable  the  words  of  the  Savior: 

Let  your  light  so  shine  before  men,  that  they  may  see  your  good 
works,  and  glory  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven.    (Matthew  5:16.) 

If  we  would  face  the  future,  no  matter  what  it  may  be,  with  calm- 
ness of  spirit,  with  an  assurance  that  God  governs  in  the  affairs  of 
men,  let  us  as  individuals  and  as  a  group  live  exemplary  lives. 

Social  Evils 

Let  us  see  to  it  that  the  social  evils  now  rampant  in  the  world 
that  bring  such  sorrow  and  degradation  to  mankind,  that  spread  sor- 
row and  misery  throughout  the  world  are  reduced  to  a  minimum  in  our 
own  communities;  for  example,  there  is  too  much  drunkenness,  too 
much  unchastity.  The  excessive  consumption  of  intoxicating  liquors 
in  this  state  is  a  reflection  upon  all. 

To  curtail  those  evils,  to  spread  love  and  peace,  brotherly  kind- 
ness throughout  the  world  is  our  paramount  duty.  If  we  succeed  to  a 
commendable  degree  we  can  say  to  the  world — unbelievers,  scoffers, 
and  all  others,  "Come,  our  way  of  life  is  best  because  it  works  best. 
Our  people  are  efficient,  prosperous,  and  happy  because  we  are  a  body 
who  aid  one  another  in  the  productive  life.  We  waste  none  of  our 
substance  in  vice,  luxury,  or  ostentation.  We  do  not  dissipate  our 
energy  in  brawling,  gambling,  or  unwholesome  habits.  We  conserve 
our  resources  of  body  and  mind  and  devote  them  to  the  upbuilding  of 
the  kingdom  of  God,  which  is  not  a  mystical  but  a  real  kingdom.  It  is 
a  body  of  people  dominated  by  ideals  of  productivity,  which  is  mutual 
service.  We  do  not  strive  for  the  things  which  satisfy  but  for  the 
moment  and  then  leave  a  bad  taste.  We  strive  for  the  things  which 
build  us  up,  and  enable  us  and  our  children  to  be  strong,  to  flourish, 
and  to  conquer.  We  strive  to  make  ourselves  worthy  to  receive  the 
world  by  fitting  ourselves  to  use  the  world  more  productively  than 
others.  We  believe  that  obedience  to  God  means  obedience  to  the 
laws  of  nature,  which  are  but  the  manifestations  of  his  will;  and  we 
try  by  painstaking  study  to  acquire  the  most  complete  and  exact 
knowledge  of  that  will,  in  order  that  we  may  conform  ourselves  to  it." 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  5  Second  Day 

World  Faces  a  Crisis 

The  world  faces  a  crisis — a  terrible  crisis.  Opportunity  is  given 
for  men  to  choose  wisely  and  live,  or  disregard  the  Master's  teachings 
and  die.  Down  through  the  ages  come  resounding  the  cry  of  Joshua — 

.  .  .  choose  you  this  day  whom  ye  will  serve;  .  .  .  but  as  for  me  and 
my  house,  we  will  serve  the  Lord.  (Joshua  24:15.) 

And  the  thrilling  words  of  Peter  when  commanded  not  to  speak 
at  all,  nor  to  teach  in  the  name  of  Jesus: 

.  .  .  Whether  it  be  right  in  the  sight  of  God  to  hearken  unto  you 
more  than  unto  God,  judge  ye. 

For  we  cannot  but  speak  the  things  which  we  have  seen  and  heard. 
Acts  4:19-20.) 

The  choice  today  is  between  dictatorship  with  the  atheistic  teach- 
ings of  communism,  and  the  doctrine  of  the  restored  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  obedience  to  which  alone  can  make  us  free. 

God  bless  the  Church,  particularly  our  young  people  who  are 
going  to  maintain  its  standards.  God  bless  fathers  and  mothers  who 
instill  this  faith  in  the  hearts  of  children  and  proclaim  it  throughout 
the  world,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Brethren  and  sisters,  including  radio'  listeners: 

A  year  ago  from  this  pulpit  I  spoke  to  the  theme  of  Joseph  Smith, 
the  Prophet,  indicating  that,  aside  from  Jesus  Christ,  I  looked  upon 
him  as  second  in  greatness  to  no  other  religious  teacher  that  ever  lived. 
And  judged  by  the  same  standard  used  in  judging  greatness  in  men- — - 
by  his  works — as  with  Shakespeare,  Washington,  Lincoln,  Einstein, 
etc. — I  still  believe  my  view  of  him  is  correct  and  that  he  is  the  greatest 
man  America  ever  produced.  Hence  I  am  convinced  that  he  is  deserv- 
ing of  a  careful,  thorough,  and  honest  study  by  every  person  interested 
in  his  personal  well-being.  According  to  first-class  evidence,  Joseph 
Smith  did  actually,  really  see  and  hear  the  Father  and  the  Son,  two 
highly  glorified  beings,  they  seemed  to-  him,  in  whose  image  man 
himself  is  made.  If  this  is  not  a  fact,  he  was  the  greatest  religious  fraud 
this  world  has  ever  seen.  Between  these  two  positions — prophet  or 
fraud — there  is  no  middle  ground,  or  compromise.  This  is  a  strong 
statement,  I  admit,  but  certainly  a  correct  one.  Which  of  these  two 
positions  is  the  right  one?  If  the  first  one  is  right,  then  certainly  Joseph 
Smith's  teachings  should  be  studied  by  every  human  being  qualified 
to  study,  for  Joseph  was  God-taught  and  made  available  to  the  modern 
world  the  knowledge  that  every  person  must  have,  and  by  which  he 
must  live,  if  he  would  return  from  mortality  to  the  celestial  kingdom, 
the  realm  where  God  personally  lives. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL  71 

Lord's  Law  of  Health 

With  this  brief  introduction,  I  wish  to  talk  for  a  few  minutes  on 
a  phase  of  one  of  Joseph  Smith's  revelations,  commonly  spoken  of  as 
the  Lord's  Law  of  Health,  or  otherwise  known  as  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom. 

But  why  the  Word  of  Wisdom  as  a  part  of  religion?  someone 
may  ask.  In  the  language  of  the  document  itself  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom shows: 

.  .  .  forth  the  order  and  will  of  God  in  the  temporal  salvation  of  all 
saints  in  the  last  days — 

And  those  : 

.  .  .  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking  in  obedi- 
ence to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel  and  marrow 
to  their  bones,    (D.  &  C.  89:2,  18.) 

And  health  is  an  important  factor  in  the  work  of  serving  God  and 
man. 

The  apostle  Paul  asked, 

Know  ye  not  that  ye  are  the  temple  of  God,  and  that  the  Spirit  of 
God  dwelleth  in  you? 

If  any  man  defile  the  temple  of  God,  him  shall  God  destroy;  for  the 
temple  of  God  is  holy,  which  temple  ye  are.  (I  Cor.  3:16-17.) 

Now,  in  order  that  health  may  be  maintained,  it  is  common 
knowledge  that  the  laws  of  health  must  be  observed.  Scientists  have 
long  taught  that  law  is  universal  throughout  material  realms.  With 
this  thought  in  mind  the  poet  wrote  of  the  "music  of  the  spheres." 
The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  taught  the  universality  of  spiritual  laws 
when  he  wrote: 

There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  founda- 
tions of  this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated — 

And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to 
that  law  upon  which  it  is  predicated.  (D.  &  C.  130:20-21.) 

All  over  the  Church  the  belief  is  general  that  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom is  practically  observed  if  the  individual  abstains  from  the  use  of 
tea,  coffee,  liquor,  and  tobacco.  But  a  careful  reading  of  the  revelation 
shows  this  belief  to  be  erroneous.  There  is  much  more  to  the  docu- 
ment than  abstention  from  the  use  of  narcotics.  Among  the  statements 
are  these: 

Every  herb  in  the  season  thereof,  and  every  fruit  in  the  season  there- 
of; all  these  to  be  used  with  prudence  and  thanksgiving. 

Yea,  flesh  also  of  beasts  and  of  the  fowls  of  the  air,  I,  the  Lord, 
have  ordained  for  the  use  of  man  with  thanksgiving;  nevertheless  they 
are  to  be  used  sparingly; 

And  it  is  pleasing  unto  me  that  they  should  not  be  used,  only  in 
times  of  winter,  or  of  cold,  or  famine.  (D.  &  C.  89:11-13.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


Importance  of  Balanced  Diet 


It  is  to  flesh  as  an  article  in  human  diet  that  I  wish  to  direct  your 
attention.  It  is  needless  to  confess  that  I  am  not  an  authority  in  the 
field  of  nutrition.  So  I  hope  you  will  tolerate  my  quoting  freely  from 
writings  of  men  generally  accepted  as  authorities.  These  authorities 
say  that  generally  food  has  more  to  do  with  health  than  any  other 
factor  affecting  health.  But  that  food  may  do  its  most  for  our  health 
we  must  have  a  balanced  diet,  made  up  of  five  essential  substances  in 
the  right  proportions — these  substances  being  proteins,  fats,  carbo- 
hydrates, minerals,  and  vitamins. 


In  How  To  Live,  perhaps  the  most  widely  read  and  authoritative 
book  in  English  for  the  layman  on  the  subject  of  personal  hygiene  and 
published  under  the  auspices  of  the  Life  Extension  Institute,  Inc.,  we 
find  a  great  fund  of  reliable  information  given  in  simple  language  by 
the  authors,  Professor  Irving  Fisher  of  Yale  University  and  Dr.  Eu- 
gene Lyman  Fisk,  medical  director  of  the  Life  Extension  Institute,  Inc. 
The  book  was  first  published  in  1915  under  the  auspices  of  the  board 
of  directors  of  the  institute,  of  which  Judge  William  Howard  Taft  was 
chairman  and  writer  of  the  forewords  to  the  first  and  the  fifteenth 
editions.  My  citations  will  be  from  the  fifth  printing  of  the  eighteenth 
edition,  1929.  (The  most  recent  revised  edition,  the  twenty-first,  was 
written  by  Professor  Fisher  and  Dr.  Haven  Emerson  of  Columbia 
University,  but  nothing  here  quoted  is  nullified;  by  this  edition. ) 

As  just  stated,  the  essential  foods  are  proteins,  fats,  carbohy- 
drates, minerals,  and  vitamins.  Protein  is  the  tissue-building  constit- 
uent of  foods.  It  is  found  in  meat,  eggs,  fowls,  milk,  peas,  beans,  grains, 
especially  wheat,  most  vegetables,  fruits,  etc.  Lean  meat  and  the  white 
of  eggs  are  particularly  high  in  protein.  The  book,  How  To  Live,  page 
42,  says: 

They  consist  entirely  of  protein  and  water;  also  most  ordinary 
foods  contain  more  or  less  protein. 

Arid  the  book  goes  on  to  say: 

.  .  .  foods  should  be  so  selected  as  to  give  to  the  ration  the  right 
amount  of  protein,  or  repair-foods,  on  the  one  hand,  and  of  fats  and 
carbohydrates,  or  fuel-foods,  on  the  other. 

According  to  what  are  regarded  as  the  best  investigations,  the  right 
proportion  of  protein  is  generally  about  10  percent  of  the  total  number  of 
heat  units  consumed.  This  means  10  percent  of  the  total  nutriment, 
that  is  ten  calories  of  protein  out  of  every  one  hundred  calories  of  food. 

And  further  on  the  books  says : 

...  a  chief  and  common  error  of  diet  consists  of  using  too  much  pro- 
tein, two  or  more  times  too  much. 


Quotations  from  "How  to  Live" 


And  on  page  47,  we  read: 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL  73 

At  a  meeting  of  the  Inter-Allied  Council  of  Physiologists  during  the 
World  War  I,  it  was  decided  that  meat  was  not  a  physiological  necessity 
— since/  the  proteins  of  meat  can  be  replaced  by  those  contained  in 
milk,  cheese  and  eggs — as  well  as  by  the  proteins  of  vegetable  origin. 

And  why  is  too  much  protein  injurious?  On  page  47,  we  read: 

When  protein  is  taken  in  great  excess  of  the  body's  need,  as  is 
usually  the  case  in  the  diet  of  Americans,  added  work  is  given  the  liver 
and  kidneys,  the  circulation  is  over-stimulated  and  the  "factor  of  safety" 
of  these  organs  is  exceeded. 

And  on  page  68  is  the  following: 

Before  leaving  the  subject  of  intestinal  poisoning,  we  may  here 
again  mention  the  importance  of  avoiding  the  poisoning  that  comes  from 
too  much  protein. 

Now  please  give  particular  attention  to  the  following,  found  on 
page  250: 

Even  the  most  ardent  advocates  of  a  meat  diet  cannot  produce  a 
scientific  evidence  to  show  that  intestinal  putrefaction  to  a  high  degree  due 
to  the  presence  of  meat  is  in  any  way  beneficial  to  the  organism;  hence, 
in  seeking  the  best  form  of  diet,  meat  as  a  source  of  protein  may  well  be 
excluded  and  the  requisite  protein  secured  from  milk,  nuts,  cereals,  and. 
vegetables.  If  in  the  average  diet  a  pint  of  milk  daily  is  substituted  for 
whatever  meat  portions  have  theretofore  been  taken,  there  would  be 
no  danger  of  protein  lack. 

And  on  the  following  page  is  found: 

We  have  quoted  Hubner,  one  of  the  world's  foremost  authorities 
in  hygiene,  as  condemning  the  very  popular  idea  that  meat  is  very 
"strengthening."  Actual  experiments  on  this  point  have  shown  exactly 
the  opposite  to  be  the  case. 

This  statement  will  surprise  most  people.  But  the  book  continues : 

Meat  eating  and  a  high-protein  diet,  instead  of  increasing  one's 
endurance,  have  been  shown,  like  alcohol,  actually  to  reduce  it. 

Then  experiments  conducted  at  Yale  University  by  Professor 
Fisher  are  described,  after  which  the  book  continues  (page  252): 

The  experiments  furnished  a  severe  test  of  the  claims  of  the  flesh- 
abstainers.  Two  comparisons  were  planned:  one  between  flesh-eating 
athletes  and  flesh-abstaining  athletes,  and  the  other  between  flesh-eating 
athletes  and  flesh-abstaining  sedentary  workers.  The  results  would 
indicate  that  the  users  of  low-protein  and  the  nonflesh  dietaries  have 
far  greater  endurance  than  those  who  are  accustomed  to  the  ordinary 
American  diet. 

Now  let  me  read  to  you  a  few  words  from  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
given  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to  the  world  long  before  science 
knew  any  of  the  facts  that  I  have  just  read  to  you  from  How  to  Live. 
As  a  promise  for  observing  the  Word  of  Wisdom  the  revelation  says : 

And  all  saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walk- 
ing in  obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their 
navel  and  marrow  to  their  bones;  .  .  . 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  5  Second  Day 

And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint. 
(D.  &  C.  89:18,  20.) 

Do  the  Yale  experiments  and  the  statements  read  from  How  To  Live 
confirm  or  discredit  the  teaching  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  relative  to 
the  eating  of  meat?  How  do  you  account  for  the  fact  that  Joseph 
Smith  could  give  these  truths  to  the  world  many  years  before  science 
knew  about  them? 

"Health  and  Efficiency" 

Now  I  wish  to  quote  from  Health  and  Efficiency,  a  book  written 
for  schools  by  Professor  M.  V.  O'Shea  of  the  University  of  Wiscon- 
sin and  Dr.  J.  H.  Kellogg,  superintendent  of  the  Battle  Creek  Sani- 
tarium, and  published  by  the  Macmillan  Company  in  1927.  I  believe 
anyone  could  read  this  little  book  on  hygiene  with  a  great  deal  of 
profit.  From  the  chapter  on  "Food  and  Efficiency"  I  condense  the 
following  statements: 

Proteins  are  body-building  materials.  They  may  also  be  used  by 
the  body  as  fuel,  but  this  occurs  only  in  case  of  necessity.  When  heat 
producing  foods — fats  and  carbohydrates — are  burned  up  proteins  are 
used  for  fuel.  So  if  the  body  does  not  need  the  protein  for  repairs  it 
will  use  it,  but  it  is  a  bad  form  of  fuel,  for  it  leaves  behind  what  might 
be  called  clinkers.  When  fats  and  carbohydrates  are  consumed,  they  leave 
no  "ashes."  With  protein  foods  the  story  is  quite  different.  These,  when 
formed,  yield  substances  that  are  not  ready  for  elimination  by  the  kidneys 
until  they  have  been  chemically  changed  by  the  liver.  These  products 
are  poisonous  and  circulating  through  the  body  are  present  in  excess 
in  the  blood  of  heavy  meat  eaters.  The  result  is  that  the  liver  and 
kidneys  are  much  overworked  and  thus  wear  out  prematurely. 

Again: 

Of  the  food  eaten,  a  small  portion  remains  behind  in  the  intestine 
undigested.  This  is  particularly  true  of  protein  food,  the  unused  residue 
of  which  is  usually  much  greater  than  that  of  the  carbohydrates  and  fats. 
When  more  protein  is  eaten  than  needed  some  of  it  remains  in  the  large 
intestine  until  it  is  discharged.  The  warmth  of  the  body  causes  it  to 
putrefy. 

It  is  evident,  then,  that  if  one's  diet  is  such  that  a  considerable  amount 
of  undigested  meat  is  left  to  decay  in  the  colon,  harmful  poisons  will 
be  absorbed  in  the  blood  and  will  do  harm  to  the  liver,  kidneys,  blood- 
vessels, and  the  other  tissues. 

Dr.  Newburgh,  a  University  of  Michigan  professor,  as  a  result  of  his 
researches,  has  concluded  that  an  excess  of  protein  in  the  diet  resulting 
from  heavy  meat  eating,  is  one  of  the  causes  of  the  great  increase  in  recent 
years  of  diseases  of  the  kidneys,  heart,  and  blood-vessels. 

The  foods  to  be  used  most  sparingly  are  those  which  contain  a  great 
excess  of  protein,  such  as  meat,  eggs,  cheese,  and  beans.  On  this  ac- 
count, there  are  many  authorities  who  think  that  it  would  be  safer  to 
discard  the  use  of  meat  altogether  than  to  continue  to  use  it  so  freely  as 
many  Americans  are  doing. 

And  then  the  book  quotes  Dr.  McCollum  of  Johns  Hopkins  Uni- 
versity, an  eminent  authority  on  nutrition  as  follows : 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


75 


I  have  not  the  slightest  hesitation  in  saying  that  a  vegetarian  diet, 
supplemented  with  fairly  liberal  amounts  of  milk  is  the  most  satisfactory 
type  of  diet  a  man  can  take. 

Next,  Professor  Chittenden  of  Yale  University  is  quoted : 

With  vegetables  of  all  kinds  and  milk,  bread,  and  butter,  you  have 
at  your  command  all  the  necessary  resources  for  a  nutritious  diet. 

Then  the  book  speaks  about  a  bulletin  by  the  United  States  De- 
partment of  Agriculture  in  which  we  are  told  that 

.  .  .  meat  may  be  omitted  from  the  diet  altogether,  for  it  has  been 
determined  that  all  necessary  protein  and  energy  may  be  obtained  from 
other  materials. 

As  a  final  quotation  from  the  book  Health  and  Efficiency  I  give 
the  following: 

Energy  can  be  gotten  from  food  only  after  it  has  become  part  of  a 
living  cell.  The  excess  protein  is  never  assimilated:  it  never  becomes  an 
actual  part  of  the  body;  it  is  burned  to  get  rid  of  it,  just  as  rubbish  is. 
Even  the  heat  produced  is  extra  heat  which  the  body  does  not  need  and 
so  is  carried  off  by  an  increase  in  the  insensible  perspiration.  Under 
conditions  of  extreme  exposure  to  cold  the  heat  might  be  of  service.  On 
the  other  hand,  in  case  of  fever,  and  in  hot  weather,  the  heat  excess 
induced  by  too  much  protein  may  do  great  harm. 

Meats  to  be  Used  Sparingly 

Now  I  read  again  the  words  of  the  revelation  to  the  Prophet: 

.  .  .  they  [meats]  are  to  be  used  sparingly; 
And  it  is  pleasing  unto  me  that  they  should  not  be  used,  only  in  times 
of  winter,  or  of  cold,  or  famine.  (D.  6  C.  89:12-13.) 

Latter-day  Saints,  why  should  you  complain  of  the  scarcity  or 
high  price  of  flesh  foods?  Have  you  not  known  that  in  any  case  you 
should  eat  them  sparingly?  The  Lord  told  you  so.  I  have  quoted  from 
some  of  the  highest  authorities  in  the  world  to  the  effect  that  they  are 
not  essential  to  your  physical  well-being.  But  Americans  did  not 
know  this  until  God  revealed  it  to  them  through  his  Prophet,  Joseph 
Smith. 

And  now  I  sum  up.  Proteins  are  the  building  materials  of  the 
body,  the  needed  amount  of  which  is  largely  determined  by  age  and 
the  kind  of  physical  activity;  but  for  the  average  adult  it  is  about  10 
percent  of  food  intake.  More  than  this  should  be  avoided.  Meat 
is  the  richest  source  of  proteins  but  sizable  amounts  are  found  in  the 
excellent  foods — eggs,  milk,  cheese,  beans,  nuts,  wheat,  and  more  or 
less  in  other  cereals,  vegetables,  and  fruits.  Americans  eat  too  much 
meat,  a  non-essential  in  human  diet,  because  all  the  proteins  needed 
are  available  in  the  other  foods  just  named. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  accept  and  live  by  every  word  he  gives 
to  us  by  the  mouths  of  his  holy  prophets,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  5  Second  Dag 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus  and  the  congre- 
gation sang  the  hymn,  "High  On  the  Mountain  Top,"  by  Beesley. 
(Hymn  Book,  p.  134;  L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  131.) 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  o[  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  beloved  brothers  and  sisters,  I  have  here  in  this  book  a  talk 
upon  which  I  have  spent  many  hours  in  thought  and  preparation.  I 
had  intended  to  give  it  at  this  conference.  If  I  had  spoken  before 
President  David  O.  McKay,  I  would  have  talked  to  you  about  the 
necessity  of  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  as  an  effective  means  of 
bringing  peace  to  the  world.  He  has  given  my  talk,  body  and  soul, 
and  in  a  much  better  way  than  I  could  have  given  it.  I  shall  therefore 
not  talk  on  that  subject,  but  I  will  ask  each  of  you,  if  you  will,  to  offer 
a  silent  prayer  in  your  heart  for  me,  and  for  you,  too— because  you 
probably  will  stay  here  and  listen  to  me — that  I  may  have  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  while  I  speak  to  you  wholly  extemporaneously. 

Personal  Testimony 

I  have  something  for  you  which  no  other  person  in  this  world 
can  give  to  you.  It  is  my  personal  testimony.  You  have  your  testimony, 
and  you  can  give  that,  but  I  have  mine,  and  while  you  are  not  bound 
by  my  testimony,  I  am  bound  by  it,  and  I  would  like  to  bear  it  to  you 
if  the  Lord  will  give  me  strength. 

Faith  in  God 

I  know  that  God  lives.  The  first  article  of  our  faith  begins,  as  1 
recall  it,  "We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal  Father.  ..."  I  believe  in 
him  as  a  personal  being.  I  do  not  think  he  is  an  immaterial  substance. 
I  do  not  think  that,  as  a  person  he  fills  the  immensity  of  space  and  at 
the  same  time  is  so  small  that  he  can  dwell  in  my  heart.  I  believe  that 
his  spirit  can  be  in  my  heart,  but  I  believe  that  God  is  my  Father,  a 
person.  I  believe  with  all  my  soul  that  he  appeared  personally  with 
the  Savior  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  the  grove  and  talked  to  him. 
At  least  he  introduced  the  Savior  to  the  boy  Prophet  in  that  great 
revelation  and  vision  which  opened  this  last  dispensation.  I  believe  he 
is  the  Father  of  my  spirit  and  the  Father  of  your  spirit.  I  believe  we 
were  born  to  him  and  to  our  mother  in  heaven.  I  do  not  know  the 
process,  but  I  do  know  how  we  are  born  to  our  fathers  and  mothers  in 
this  earth  and  that  is  the  way  I  think  about  it.  I  feel  that  there  is  a  sim- 
ilar relationship  between  him  and  me  that  I  feel  toward  my  earthly 
father,  or  that  I  did  feel  toward  him  when  he  was  here.  I  have  always 
thought  about  God  in  this  way.  I  believe  I  was  born  to  him  as  a  spirit 
child  in  the  spirit  world  before  I  was  born  here,  and  what  I  say  about 
myself — and  you  will  pardon  the  personal  reference — I  feel  about 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY     .  77 


every  other  human  soul  that  lives  in  the  earth.  I  believe  we  all  lived 
with  him  before  we  came  here. 

Divine  Mission  of  Jesus  Christ 

I  likewise  believe  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  With  all  my  soul  I 
believe  in  him,  and  I  put  my  hope  of  peace  in  this  life  and  of  exaltation 
and  happiness  in  the  life  to  come  in  the  atonement  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  I  believe  he  was  a  Son  of  God  in  the  same  sense  that  we  were 
sons  and  daughters  of  God  in  the  spirit,  and  I  believe  that  he  was  and 
is  the  Son  of  God  in  the  flesh.  I  do  not  believe  that  Joseph  was  the 
father  of  Jesus  Christ,  although  I  do  believe  that  he  was  a  good  and 
great  man.  I  believe  that  Mary  was  the  mother  of  Jesus  as  my  mother 
was  my  mother,  and  I  believe  that  the  father  of  Jesus  Christ  in  the 
flesh  was  Elohim,  my  Eternal  and  Heavenly  Father. 

I  believe  that  Jesus  came  into  the  world  with  a  very  definite  mis- 
sion. I  do  not  regard  him  merely  as  a  great  teacher  nor  as  a  profound 
philosopher,  nor  do  I  merely  profess  to  believe  in  him,  as  is  the  case 
with  many  so-called  Christian  people  of  the  day.  President  Grant  used 
to  illustrate  their  lack  of  faith  in  Him  by  telling  of  the  experience  of 
Senator  Beveridge,  who  among  several  hundred  eminent  ministers 
of  popular  churches  of  the  day,  whom  he  interviewed  and  interro- 
gated, failed  to  find  a  single  one  who  could  unequivocally  say  that  he 
believed  that  Jesus  Christ  was  the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  sent  by 
him  to  save  the  world.  I  believe  that,  with  all  my  soul  I  believe  it,  and 
I  believe  that  in  Gethsemane  and  on  the  cross  Jesus  suffered  for  the 
sins  of  all  men,  good  and  bad,  that  they  might  be  resurrected  from  the 
dead  and  have  immortal  life.  I  believe  that  through  his  atonement, 
Jesus  paid  for  the  sins  of  every  human  soul  who  has  lived  or  will  live 
upon  the  earth,  upon  condition  of  repentance  and  acceptance  of  the 
gospel.  I  believe  that  by  living  the  gospel  we  may  be  washed  clean 
through  his  atoning  blood  and  come  back  into  the  presence  of  God, 
our  Eternal  Father,  when  life  is  over;  and  live  with  him  eternally  in 
his  celestial  presence. 

These  things  are  realities  to  me.  I  do  not  believe  the  past  experi- 
ence of  my  own  life  any  more  than  I  believe  these  great  truths. 

The  Holy  Ghost 

I  believe  in  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  On  one  occasion  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  in  Washington  talking  to  one  of  the  presi- 
dents of  the  United  States,  I  believe  it  was  President  Van  Buren.  I 
often  think  of  that  picture.  There  sat  the  president  of  what  in  my 
judgment  is  the  greatest  nation  in  the  world  and  with  him,  although  he 
was  unknown,  sat  a  man  who  was  infinitely  greater  than  the  president 
of  the  United  States,  the  Prophet  of  the  Living  God,  the  man  whom 
God  had  reserved  in  the  spirit  world  to  come  to  earth  in  these  latter- 
days  to  be  the  instrument  through  whom  God  would  restore  the  ever- 
lasting gospel  in  this  last  dispensation.  "Well,"  said  President  Van 
Buren  to  the  Prophet,  "What  is  the  difference  between  you  and  the 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  5  Second  Day 

rest  of  the  Christian  world?"  The  Prophet  answered  in  one  sentence, 
"We  have  the  Holy  Ghost." 

I  believe  that  the  Holy  Ghost  is  the  third  member  of  the  grand 
council  that  presides  over  the  destinies  of  this  world.  I  believe  he  is 
a  person,  because  when  Jesus  spoke  of  him  he  said, 

Howbeit  when  he,  the  Spirit  of  truth,  is  come,  he  will  guide  you  into 
all  truth.  (John  16:13.) 

I  believe  he  is  not  a  person  with  a  physical  body  of  bone  and  flesh, 
but  a  spirit  person,  and  I  suppose  if  I  should  see  him  he  would  look 
something  like  the  Savior  looked  to  the  brother  of  Jared  when  he  ap- 
peared to  him  on  the  Mount.  When  Jared's  brother  looked  upon  him, 
he  appeared  to  be  a  personal  being  as  we  appear,  as  men  appear.  Jesus 
explained  to  him  that  what  he  was  looking  upon  was  the  body  of  his 
Spirit.  Now  I  am  not  saying  this  is  the  doctrine  of  the  Church.  It  is, 
however,  the  only  way  I  can  think  about  a  spirit  person,  so  I  think 
about  the  Holy  Ghost  in  this  way.  I  believe  his  influence  and  his  power 
are  capable  of  spreading  out  into  the  hearts  of  all  people,  as  many  as 
will  accept  the  gospel  and  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

When  I  was  made  a  member  of  the  Church,  Elder  George  Teas- 
dale,  one  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  confirmed  me.  He  laid  his 
hands  upon  my  head  and  confirmed  me  a  member  of  the  Church  and 
said  in  words  about  like  this,  "Receive  ye  the  Holy  Ghost."  All  of  us 
who  are  members  of  the  Church  have  had  that  same  gift  given  to  us. 
He  did  not  tell  the  Holy  Ghost  to  come  to  me;  he  told  me  to  receive 
him.  I  believe  that  if  I  live  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Holy  Ghost 
will  come  to  me  and  guide  me  into  all  truth.  Every  one  of  us  can  be 
led  and  directed  by  this  third  member  of  the  Godhead.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  said  that  his  whole  purpose  was  to  bring  light  and  in- 
telligence and  truth  to  the  minds  of  men  and  women,  and  they  can- 
not be  deceived  as  long  as  they  have  his  spirit  with  them. 

Now,  I  believe  that  the  gospel  which  we  have  accepted  is  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  do  not  think  that  President  Smith,  as  much 
as  I  admire  and  love  him,  is  the  head  of  this  Church.  I  think  it  is  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  believe  he  directs  its  affairs. 

Church  Guided  By  Revelation 

My  testimony  of  revelation  does  not  end  with  the  revelations  of 
Joseph  Smith.  I  believe  that  Joseph  Smith,  Brigham  Young,  John 
Taylor,  Wilford  Woodruff,  Lorenzo  Snow,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and 
Heber  J.  Grant  were  led,  guided  and  directed  by  direct  revelation.  I 
believe  that  President  George  Albert  Smith  is  now  guided  in  the  af- 
fairs of  the  present  day  by  the  revelations  which  come  from  Jesus 
Christ  directly  and  through  the  Holy  Ghost.  I  do  not  believe  revela- 
tion has  ceased.  If  I  did,  I  would  not  spend  my  time  doing  what  I  am 
doing.  I  believe  that  these  prophets  of  God  now  seated  on  this  stand 
live  by  revelation.  I  believe  that  when  a  man  is  chosen  in  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve,  he  is  chosen  by  revelation  through  the  mind  of  Presi- 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG  79 

dent  George  Albert  Smith,  and  I  believe  that  when  a  man  becomes 
President  of  this  Church  it  is  not  just  because  he  has  lived  a  long  time. 
It  is  because  God  Almighty  wants  him  to  lead  this  Church  in  the 
earth. 

What  these  men  say  I  follow,  not  because  I  think  they  are 
almighty  as  individual  men,  but  because  I  think  they  live  true  and 
pure  lives  and  through  them  God  gives  the  direction  he  wants  his 
Church  to  have.  I  believe  that  I  would  be  a  very  unwise  man  to  put 
the  little  information  and  knowledge  I  have  above  the  vision  of 
the  Almighty  which  guides  these  men. 

I  believe  this  is  the  Church  of  God.  I  believe  that  it  will  yet  save 
whatever  of  the  world  is  saved.  I  believe  we  have  the  commission  to 
teach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  all  the  world.  God  help  us  that  we 
may  keep  this  testimony  burning  in  our  hearts  and  that  we  may  do 
as  he  would  have  us  do  and  live  so  that  when  life  is  over  we  will 
have  brought  ourselves  within  reach  of  the  atoning  blood  of  }esUs 
Christ  and  enjoy  his  rest  forever,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

In  speaking  to  you  at  this  time  let  me  recall  to  you  the  lesson  con- 
tained in  the  story  of  Jonah  as  given  by  Dr.  A.  Lawrence  Lowell  of 
Harvard  University. 

Failure  to  See  Aright 

Temptations  beset  every  one  of  us  in  every  walk  of  life.  By  tempta- 
tions I  mean  failures  to  see  aright.  Jonah's  was  the  case  of  a  man  who 
in  success  lost  sight  of  the  real  object  of  his  work.  He  failed  to  see  the 
right  path.  He  did  no  harm  because  God  disposed  otherwise;  but  if  he 
could  have  had  his  way,  he  would  have  destroyed  all  the  people  of 
Nineveh,  and  thought  he  was  doing  right.  Yet,  had  he  stopped  to  ask  him- 
self seriously  what  was  the  right  of  his  mission*  his  own  answer  would 
certainly  have  been  that  it  was  to  bring  the  people  of  Nineveh  to  re- 
pentance. His  neglect  to  ask  himself  that  question  was  the  cause  of  his 
error.  He  lost  sight  of  his  object,  not  because  he  could  not  see  it,  but 
because  he  did  not  try  to. 

Men  have  good  intentions;  they  mean  well;  but  they  do  not  act 
well.  They  do  not  continually  ask  themselves,  "In  what  does  my  best 
consist?"  They  pursue  lesser  aims,  not  because  they  prefer  them,  but 
because  in  the  press  and  strain  of  events,  in  the  cares  of  life,  they  be- 
come absorbed  in  immediate  objects  and  forget  the  higher  ones.  Then, 
too,  many  of  our  young  men  do  not  realize  the  importance  of  long, 
hard  work.  They  have  not  disciplined  their  minds  to  persevere  in  dili- 
gence and  steadfastness.  They  have  not  learned  how  to  endure  stren- 
uous, conscientious  work;  how  to  wrestle  and  work  through  delays, 
through  disappointments,  and  failures,  through  the  darkness  till  the 
breaking  of  the  day.  Let  us  be  sure  we  never  become  busy  calling  at- 
tention to  our  own  virtues.  Never  let  us  thirst  for  praise  but  do  right 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.  April  5  Second  Dmg 

for  right's  sake*  Above  all,  avoid  that  indifference,  that  apathy,  that 
is  glad  to  wrap  itself  under  the  cloak  of  piety,  and  be  self-satisfied, 
self-righteous.  The  knowledge  that  is  really  the  crown  of  life,  is  that 
we  may  exercise  choice,  for  we  have  our  free  agency.  Let  us  never 
forget  that  the  divine  spark  is  in  every  man,  in  him  alone,  and  that  he 
is  free  to  disregard  it  or  to  heed  it,  and  to  come  closer  to  God  by  show- 
ing his  eagerness  to  work  with  him  and  for  him. 

Conformity  to  Ideals 

The  spectacle  offered  by  humanity  today  is  a  deeply  sad  one. 
The  gestures  of  faith,  constant  attendance  at  Church,  outward  piety, 
signify  nothing  if  man  does  not  conform  his  acts  and  his  life  to  the 
ideals  of  the  teachings  of  Christ.  Men  must  be  made  to  understand 
that  the  important  thing  is  to  develop  what  is  within  them,  to  purify 
themselves,  to  better  themselves,  to  come  closer  to  the  perfect  ideal 
which  Jesus  taught.  He  has  shown  us  the  way.  The  path  is  straight 
before  us.  We  must  love  God;  we  must  love  our  neighbor;  we  must 
do  unto  others  as  we  would  have  them  do  unto  us.  We  must  pray 
that  the  kingdom  of  God  may  come  to  the  earth  as  it  is  in  heaven.  The 
sincere  desire  of  men  to  progress  morally  and  spiritually  leads  to  the 
erection  of  an  inside  temple,  without  which  the  outward  manifesta- 
tion of  faith  becomes  useless.  In  I  Corinthians,  we  read: 

.  .  .  the  temple  of  God  is  holy,  which  temple  ye  are. 
( I  Corinthians  3:17.) 

And  we  read  in  II  Corinthians: 

.  .  .  where  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is,  there  is  liberty.  (II  Corinthians 
3:17.) 

Human  Destiny 
Says  Le  Comte  du  Nuoy  in  his  Human  Destiny; 

There  is  only  one  way  to  attain  peace.  First,  to  reestablish  the  cult  of 
historic  peace,  by  teaching  the  youth  of  the  entire  world  with  the  same 
substance,  thus  establishing  a  basis  for  mutual  understanding.  This  is 
a  preliminary  step  and  it  can  be  taken  immediately.  Next,  to  try  to 
establish  the  cult  of  individual  human  destiny,  and  to  improve  man  by 
stifling  wrong  instincts.  This  will  be  the  work  of  centuries  to  come.  It  is 
only  by  direct  action  on  youth  that  a  better  society  can  be  successfully 
molded.  All  so-called  philosophical  and  political  principles  must  be  re- 
placed by  Christian  principles,  the  only  ones  based  on  liberty  and  the 
respect  of  human  destiny. 

And  then  Le  Comte  du  Nuoy  goes  on  to  say  that  God  gave  men 
liberty  and  conscience,  and  the  whole  nobility  of  man  is  derived  from 
the  proper  exercise  of  this  liberty.  The  time  has  come  for  nations  as 
well  as  individuals  to  know  what  they  want.  If  civilized  nations  want 
peace,  they  must  understand  the  basic  elements  of  the  problems.  Peace 
must  be  established  by  creating  within  man  a  spiritual  consciousness 
and  not  by  erecting  external  structures.  The  source  of  all  wars  lies 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


81 


in  us;*  the  source  of  peace  will  come  when  we  begin  to  teach  the  youth 
of  the  world  that  peace  depends  on  the  individual  development  of  man 
from  within,  on  the  deep  penetration  of  the  virtues  of  the  Holy  Scrip- 
tures, on  the  comprehension  of  human  dignity. 

World  Suffers  from  Distrust 

All  nations  of  the  world  believe  in  the  Golden  Rule,  and  all  Chris- 
tians are  agreed  to  the  Ten  Commandments,  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount, 
the  Lord's  Prayer,  the  birth  and  resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ.  These 
are  the  fundamental  doctrines  to  be  taught  to  the  children  of  the 
world,  for  nothing  permanent  is  built  that  is  not  the  consequence  of 
a  deep  previous  transformation  in  the  individual  soul.  We  must  have 
greater  faith  in  mankind,  and  the  divinity  of  man  should  be  made 
known  to  children  from  the  time  they  can  walk  on  up  to  manhood 
or  womanhood.  It  is  from  distrust  that  the  world  is  suffering.  We 
must  be  more  determined  than  ever  before  to  fulfil  the  great  task 
expected  of  us;  to  make  ourselves  better;  to  make  others  better;  to 
make  this  a  better  world  to  live  in  and  to  bring  mankind  nearer  to 
God — to  have  peace  in  our  hearts  and  love  for  all  men. 

Salvation  Found  in  Religion 

We  believe  that  the  only  salvation  for  mankind  will  be  found  in 
religion,  in  the  true  and  everlasting  gospel.  Never  in  its  two  thousand 
years  has  Christianity  had  a  more  urgent  call  and  a  nobler  opportu- 
nity to  fulfil  its  obligations  as  the  comforter  and  guide  of  humanity. 

I  believe  that  faith  and  works  must  be  taught  and  developed  in 
our  children.  By  works,  I  mean  that  there  is  a  meaning  to  intellectual 
effort  and  that  it  plays  an  important  part  in  our  spiritual  stature.  Else 
why  should  the  activity  of  divine  intelligence,  the  power  to  think  and 
reason,  have  been  created?  Intellectual  effort  is  not  condemned  in  the 
search  for  spiritual  truth,  for  our  spiritual  growth,  our  religion  have 
their  roots  in  the  deepest  aspirations  of  man. 

How  deeply  divine  are  the  words  of  Joseph  Smith  when  he  said : 

The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence,  or,  in  other  words,  light  and  truth. 
(D.  &  C.  93:36.) 

Whatever  principle  of  intelligence  we  attain  unto  in  this  life,  it  will 
rise  with  us  in  the  resurrection.  (Ibid.,  130:18.) 

These  words  inspired  the  Prophet  Joseph  to  establish  in  his  day 
schools  of  learning,  and  even  a  university.  He  advocated  the  study 
of  the  ancient  classics,  of  all  the  learning  of  the  world.  No  other  A- 
merican  ever  advocated  as  he  did,  for  his  wisdom  and  understanding 
came  from  the  works  of  God. 

Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven  is 
perfect.  (Matthew  5:48.) 

We  may  further  express  this  idea  by  saying  that  all  the  intellec- 
tual acquisitions,  all  the  facilities  which  society  puts  at  the  disposal 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  5  Second  Day 

of  man-schools,  universities,  libraries,  laboratories,  all  things  offered 
by  religion,  all  the  occasions  given  him  to  develop  his  own  aptitude, 
his  work,  his  leisure,  all  must  be  considered  by  him  as  tools  destined 
to  improve  his  personality,  his  moral  self,  and  to  make  him  feel  the 
divine  purpose  of  God.  If  the  moral  law  and  true  religion  dominate 
the  world  today,  mankind  will  be  on  the  right  road  to  the  winning  of 
peace  and  happiness  for  humanity. 

Wherefore  I  put  thee  in  remembrance  that  thou  stir  up  the  gift  of 
God,  which  is  in  thee  by  the  putting  on  of  my  hands. 

For  God  hath  not  given  us  the  spirit  of  fear;  but  of  power,  and  of 
love,  and  of  a  sound  mind.  (II  Timothy  1:6-7.) 

Blessed  is  the  nation  whose  God  is  the  Lord.  (Psalms  33:12.) 

ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  pray  for  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  as  I  address  you  for  the 
next  few  moments.  I  have  been  thrilled  with  the  testimonies  that  have 
been  borne  in  this  conference.  I  love  this  work  in  which  we  are  en- 
gaged. 

I  am  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  this  land  in  which  we 
live.  I  never  return  from  foreign  shores  but  what  I  have  a  feeling  of 
gratitude  for  the  prophetic  mission  of  America.  I  love  Zion,  both  as 
a  place  and  as  a  condition. 

The  Freedom  Train 

During  the  last  few  weeks  there  has  traveled  from  one  end  of 
the  country  to  the  other  a  so-called  Freedom  Train,  the  purpose  of 
which  has  been  to  direct  our  attention  and  focus  our  interest  upon  our 
heritage  and  blessings  as  American  citizens,  and  to  call  our  attention 
to  those  foundation  principles  upon  which  this  great  country  has  been 
established  as  a  Christian  nation. 

It  has  been  an  attempt  to  call  to  our  attention  sacred  documents 
which  mark  the  origin  and  development  of  our  liberties  and  to  re- 
awaken in  us  an  appreciation  of  the  American  way  of  life.  We  have 
had  called  to  our  notice  important  things  that  we  must  do  if  we  are 
to  continue  to  enjoy  and  pass  on  to  coming  generations  the  priceless 
blessings  which  are  ours.  Embodied  in  these  sacred  documents  are 
eternal  principles — God  given — and  of  the  utmost  importance  to  all 
of  us. 

Now,  while  the  world  is  literally  in  a  mess,  is  a  good  time  to  take 
stock.  We  are  inclined  so  much  to  take  our  blessings  for  granted.  We 
are  five  generations — 1 70  years — removed  from  the  founding  of  this 
great  nation. 

We  are  living  in  a  critical  period  of  the  world's  history.  We 
note,  on  every  side,  the  spread  of  coercive  systems,  the  increased  power 
of  dictators,  and  the  influence  of  state  control  and  its  power  over  the 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


83 


individual.  Recently,  we  have  witnessed  nations  which  have  succumbed 
to  the  onslaught  of  these  coercive  systems.  I  am  sure  it  has  caused 
deep  reflection  upon  the  part  of  all  of  us  who  enjoy  the  blessings  of 
freedom  in  this  blessed  land  of  America. 

Mission  of  America 

I  am  grateful  for  the  prophetic  mission  of  this  nation  as  it  has 
been  proclaimed  by  prophets,  ancient  and  modern.  I  have  before  me, 
this  morning,  some  of  those  prophecies  made  by  Book  of  Mormon 
prophets  which  I  should  like  to  refer  to  briefly. 

I  have  always  been  grateful  that  the  Lord  saw  fit  to  hold  this 
nation,  as  it  were,  in  the  hollow  of  his  hand  in  preparation  for  its 
great  mission  as  the  cradle  of  liberty  and  the  cradle  for  the  Church 
and  kingdom  of  God  that  was  to  be  established,  and  now  has  been 
established,  in  this  the  last  dispensation. 

The  prophet  of  the  Jaredite  colony,  Mahonri  Moriancumer, 
commonly  referred  to  as  the  brother  of  Jared,  spoke  of  this  land  as 
a  choice  land,  a  land  choice  above  all  other  lands.  He  indicated  that 
those  people  who  live  here  should  worship  the  God  of  this  land  if 
they  were  to  enjoy  the  blessings  of  freedom  and  liberty  and  be  free 
from  bondage.  Otherwise,  if  they  failed,  they  were  to  be  swept  off. 
And  he  proclaimed  that  this  is  the  everlasting  decree  of  God. 

Sixteen  hundred  years  later  the  Prophet  Nephi  was  privileged  to 
see  a  large  part  of  the  history  of  the  establishment  of  this  great  nation. 
He  spoke  in  no  uncertain  terms  regarding  its  mission.  He  told  that 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  came  down  and  wrought  upon  a  man  upon 
foreign  shores,  and  that  he  went  forth  and  discovered  this  land.  He 
also  saw  other  gentiles  follow  to  these  shores  under  the  influence 
of  that  same  Spirit.  And  he  saw  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  was  here 
and  that  multitudes  of  people  came  to>  these  shores  and  that  God 
prospered  them  because  they  humbled  themselves  before  him;  that  he 
was  with  them  and  that  his  power  was  here,  and  that  during  times  of 
struggle  and  conflict — referring  to  the  Revolutionary  War — that  the 
Lord  was  with  them  and  sustained  them  and  bore  them  off  victorious. 
He  further  saw  that  this  land  was  consecrated  to  those  whom  the  Lord 
should  bring  and  who  would  serve  him  and  keep  his  commandments; 
that  it  should  be  a  land  of  liberty;  that  it  should  never  be  brought 
down  into  captivity  unless  it  be  because  of  the  iniquity  of  the  people. 

The  Lord  promised  through  Nephi  that  the  power  of  God  would 
be  with  the  gentiles  whom  he  should  bring  to  this  land  and  that  the 
wrath  of  God  would  be  "upon  all  those  that  were  gathered  against 
them  to  battle." 

Later,  after  the  colony,  which  came  to  be  called  Nephites,  arrived 
on  the  western  hemisphere,  their  prophet-leader  Lehi  declared: 

Wherefore,  this  land  is  consecrated  unto  him  whom  he  shall  bring. 
And  if  it  so  be  that  they  shall  serve  him  according  to  the  commandments 
which  he  hath  given,  it  shall  be  a  land  of  liberty  unto  them;  wherefore, 
they  shall  never  be  brought  down  into  captivity;  if  so,  it  shall  be  because 


84  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  5  Second  Day 

of  iniquity;  for  if  iniquity  shall  abound  cursed  shall  be  the  land  for  their 
sakes,  but  unto  the  righteous  it  shall  be  blessed  forever.  (II  Nephi  1:7.) 

The  Prophet  Jacob,  a  brother  of  Nephi,  twenty-five  years  later 
was  privileged  also  to  see  into  the  future  regarding  this  land  and  to 
proclaim  that  God  would  fortify  the  land  against  other  nations;  that 
he  that  fought  against  Zion  would  perish;  that  no  king  would  ever  be 
raised  on  these  shores;  that  God  would  forever  here  be  a  light  unto 
the  people  who  accepted  and  listened  to  his  words. 

And  so  this  great  nation,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  has  come  into 
being  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  to  accomplish  his  pur- 
poses. Through  modern  revelation  we  have  had  made  very  plain 
to  us  something  of  the  mission  of  America  and  the  establishment 
of  our  national  Constitution  in  this  dispensation. 

The  Constitution  a  Glorious  Standard 

During  the  dark  days  of  Missouri  when  the  Saints  were  being 
persecuted  and  driven,  and  their  lives  threatened,  and  their  property 
taken  from  them,  the  Lord  commanded  the  Saints,  through  the  Proph- 
et Joseph,  to  continue  to  importune  for  redress.  He  said: 

According  to  the  laws  and  constitution  of  the  people,  which  I  have 
suffered  to  be  established,  ...  for  the  rights  and  protection  of  all 
flesh,  according  to  just  and  holy  principles. 

He  proclaimed,  at  that  time,  that  it  is  not  right  for  men  to  be  in 
bondage  one  to  another.  Then  he  said: 

And  for  this  purpose  have  I  established  the  Constitution  of  this 
land,  by  the  hands  of  wise  men  whom  I  raised  up  unto  this  very  pur- 
pose, and  redeemed  the  land  by  the  shedding  of  blood.  (D.  &  C.  101:77, 
80.) 

Earlier,  the  Lord  had  said : 

.  .  .  verily  I  say  unto  you,  my  law  shall  be  kept  on  this  land.  .  .  . 
Let  no  man  break  the  laws  of  the  land.  (D.  &  C.  58:19,  21.) 

He  commanded  the  people  to  be  subject  to  the  powers  that  existed. 

In  the  Kirtland  Temple,  in  that  glorious  dedicatory  prayer  which, 
according  to  the  Prophet,  was  given  by  revelation,  we  find  this  sig- 
nificant verse: 

Have  mercy,  O  Lord,  upon  all  the  nations  of  the  earth;  have  mercy 
upon  the  rulers  of  our  land;  may  those  principles,  which  were  so  honor- 
ably and  nobly  defended,  namely,  the  Constitution  of  our  land,  by  our 
fathers,  be  established  forever.  (D.  &  C.  109:54.) 

And  so,  every  true  Latter-day  Saint  has  a  deep  love  and  respect 
for  the  Constitution  of  this  land. 

It  is  no  wonder  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  said — even  though  he 
knew  he  would  suffer  martyrdom  in  this  land — "The  Constitution  of 
the  United  States  is  a  glorious  standard;  it  is  founded  in  the  wisdom 
of  God.  It  is  a  heavenly  banner." 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


85 


Yet,  according  to  his  contemporaries,  he  foresaw  the  time  when 
the  destiny  of  the  nation  would  be  in  danger  and  would  hang  as  by 
a  thread.  Thank  God  he  did  not  see  the  thread  break.  He  also  indi- 
cated the  important  part  that  this  people  should  yet  play  in  standing 
for  the  principles  embodied  in  these  sacred  documents — the  Declara- 
tion of  Independence  and  the  Constitution. 

Spread  of  Coercive  Systems 

We  see  abroad  today  on  every  hand,  and  to  some  degree  in  our 
own  land,  the  spread  of  coercive  man-made  systems,  which  are  con- 
trary to  eternal  principles  and  which  strike  at  the  very  foundation  of 
all  we  hold  dear  as  American  citizens.  These  programs  would  take 
from  us  our  liberty  and  freedom,  and  those  opportunities  for  achieve- 
ment which  the  Lord  has  promised  for  this  nation  in  order  that  it 
might  perpetuate  those  eternal  principles  so  that  a  haven  might  be 
established  here  where  men  from  all  lands  might  come  and  enjoy  the 
glorious  blessings  of  freedom  and  liberty. 

We  see  abroad  in  the  world  an  increase  in  these  coercive  sys- 
tems. We  witness  millions  of  God's  children  in  bondage,  who  have 
had  their  blessings  of  liberty  and  freedom  taken  from  them.  Great 
numbers  of  liberty-loving  people  no  longer  have  their  free  agency, 
no  longer  have  freedom  of  choice  such  as  we  enjoy  here.  They  no 
longer  have  the  privilege  of  living  where  they  wish,  taking  advantage 
of  any  educational  or  work  opportunity,  but  on  the  contrary  they  are 
under  the  power  of  these  coercive  systems  and  have  lost  completely 
their  God-given  free  agency. 

The  impelling  force  in  the  hearts  of  the  founding  fathers  as  also 
in  the  hearts  of  the  pioneers  of  these  valleys  was  their  love  of  truth 
and  virtue  and  their  belief  in  the  overruling  power  of  Almighty  God. 
They  believed  in  the  existence  of  eternal  laws  and  principles  in  both 
the  physical  and  spiritual  realms.  These,  they  believed,  never  change 
but  are  eternal  and  are  embodied  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  was 
their  conviction  that  there  are  certain  inalienable  rights  which 
are  God-ordained  and  that  no  man,  group  of  men,  or  nation  has  the 
right  to  withhold  these  blessings  from  others  of  their  fellow  men.  To 
them,  governments  should  be  the  servants  and  not  the  masters  of  the 
people.  There  was  no  place  in  their  hearts  for  the  principles  of  com- 
munism, fascism,  or  any  other  coercive  system  which  endangers  the 
enjoyment  of  freedom. 

Warning  Against  Communism 

One  of  the  greatest  conflicts  ever  known  to  man  is  rapidly  spread- 
ing throughout  the  world.  Eternal  principles  of  right  and  wrong  are 
involved.  Communism,  to  my  mind,  is  not  merely  an  economic  pro- 
gram. It  is  a  total  philosophy  of  life,  utterly  atheistic  and  utterly  op- 
posed to  all  we  hold  dear  as  a  great  Christian  nation.  There  should 
be  no  place  in  the  heart  of  any  true  Latter-day  Saint  for  the  principles 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dag 


enunciated  by  the  leaders  of  these  coercive  systems  such  as  commu- 
nism, fascism,  or  any  form  of  state  control. 

I  am  pleased  to  quote  to  you  a  part  of  a  statement  which  was 
made  by  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church  in  1936,  and  reaffirmed 
later,  regarding  this  problem  of  communism  which  has  been  referred 
to.  It  reads  as  follows: 

Communism  being  thus  hostile  to  loyal  American  citizenship  and 
incompatible  with  true  Church  membership  of  necessity  no  loyal  American 
citizen  and  no  faithful  Church  member  can  be  a  communist. 

We  call  upon  all  Church  members  completely  to  eschew  communism. 
The  safety  of  our  divinely  inspired  Constitutional  government  and  the 
welfare  of  our  Church  imperatively  demand  that  communism  shall  have 
no  place  in  America. 


My  brothers  and  sisters,  our  message  to  the  world  is,  of  course, 
first  of  all,  a  message  of  peace,  a  message  of  love,  a  message  of  the 
restored  gospel.  At  the  same  time  we  stand  firmly  in  support  of  the 
principles  enunciated  in  the  Constitution  and  the  Declaration  of  In- 
dependence, and  every  Latter-day  Saint  would  defend  to  the  last 
those  eternal  principles.  We  should  measure  every  coercive  system, 
every  program  that  might  be  offered,  by  the  standards  of  those  prin- 
ciples set  forth  in  these  sacred  documents.  At  the  same  time,  as  we 
face  the  spread  of  communism  and  the  spread  of  other  coercive  forces 
in  the  world,  we  must  keep  our  hearts  free  from  hatred  and  remember 
ever  that  we  should  carry  with  us  always  a  love  for  the  children  of 
men.  We  should  renounce  war  and  declare  peace.  The  Lord  has  com- 
manded us  so  to  do'.  Our  message  is  a  message  of  peace.  We  are  fol- 
lowers of  the  Prince  of  Peace,  and  we  should  rededicate  our  lives  to 
the  spread  of  truth  and  righteousness  and  the  preservation  of  the 
liberty  and  freedom,  which  have  been  vouchsafed  to  us  as  American 
citizens  and  as  Latter-day  Saints. 


This  nation  rests  upon  a  solid  spiritual  foundation,  established 
by  the  Lord  of  heaven,  and  I  hope  and  pray  that  the  nation  may  go 
forward  to'  accomplish  its  great  mission.  There  is  no  security  except 
upon  the  basis  of  righteousness.  The  prophets,  ancient  and  modern, 
have  so  declared.  And  so  may  we  value  these  spiritual  principles  and 
keep  them  close  to  our  hearts  and  preserve  this  land  as  a  land  of  lib- 
erty and  freedom,  that  this,  his  Church,  which  has  been  established 
by  the  hand  of  the  Lord,  might  go  forward  and  accomplish  its  great 
mission. 

I  leave  my  testimony  with  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  God 
has  again  spoken  from  the  heavens,  that  he  has  raised  up  a  prophet 
as  he  said  in  the  first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  in  prep- 
aration for  the  calamites  which  will  follow: 


A  Message  of  Peace 


Security  Based  on  Righteousness 


Wherefore,  I  the  Lord,  knowing  the  calamity  which  should  come 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


87 


upon  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon  my  servant  Joseph  Smith, 
Jun.,  and  spake  unto  him  from  heaven,  and  gave  him  commandments. 
(D.  &  C.  1:17.) 

Zion  is  intended  to  be  a  place  of  refuge,  a  defense  from  the 
storm  that  is  to  come,  from  the  wrath  which  shall  be  poured  out  upon 
the  entire  earth.  God  help  us  to  be  true  and  to  live  the  gospel  and  do 
all  in  our  power  to  promote  righteousness  in  this  great  land.  This  is 
God's  work,  and  I  testify  to  you  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  his  Prophet,  raised 
up  to  establish  this  work  in  these,  the  last  days,  in  preparation  for  the 
second  coming  of  the  Master.  I  leave  this  testimony  with  you  in  all 
humility,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.; 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus  will  now  sing: 
"I  Will  Lift  Up  Mine  Eyes  to  the  Hills,"  by  Harker,  solo  by  Elder 
Walter  Richardson. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Lawrence  S. 
Burton  of  the  Ogden  Stake,  Ogden,  Utah,  after  which  this  conference 
will  stand  adjourned  until  2:00  o'clock  this  afternoon.  The  proceed- 
ings of  the  afternoon  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  at  Salt  Lake 
City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL  over  the  following  stations: 
KDSH  at  Boise,  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY 
at  Pocatello,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJ  AM  at  Vernal,  and  over  KTYL  at 
Mesa  by  transcription. 

This  afternoon  the  audience  should  be  in  their  seats  not  later 
than  ten  minutes  before  the  hour  of  beginning. 

The  Chorus  sang:  "I  will  Lift  Up  Mine  Eyes  to  the  Hills," 
after  which  President  Lawrence  S.  Burton,  of  the  Ogden  Stake,  of- 
fered the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  2:00  p.m.,  Monday,  April  5. 
The  Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus  furnished  musi- 
cal numbers  for  this  session  of  the  conference. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

It  is  time  to  start  our  meeting.  There  is  no  room  for  anyone  else 
in  the  house  unless  he  stands.  It  is  marvelous  how  the  weather  has 
favored  us,  and  it  is  delightful  to  know  that  over  at  the  Assembly 
Hall  as  well  as  here  people  are  enjoying  the  conference. 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.  April  5  Second  Day 

This  morning  our  Choir  certainly  brought  joy  to  us.  We  are 
grateful  to  the  great  institution  that  they  represent  and  hope  that  they 
will  continue  to  represent  that  institution.  They  may  not  know  it,  but 
I  was  a  student  of  the  Brigham  Young  University  when  I  was  thir- 
teen years  old.  It  was  the  Brigham  Young  Academy  at  that  time,  so 
to  me  these  members  of  the  choir  are  like  people  from  home. 

We  have  a  telegram  here  that  I  am  sure  you  will  be  glad  to  hear. 
It  is  from  Elder  Stephen  L  Richards,  sent  from  New  York. 

"Reached  New  York  this  morning  after  a  pleasant 
journey.  Missionaries  and  members  in  South  America  join 
us  in  greetings  to  yourself  and  to  the  Saints  at  conference. 
We  give  assurance  that  the  spirit  and  power  of  the  restored 
gospel  can  find  their  way  into  the  hearts  of  men  the  world 
over  and  lay  a  foundation  for  brotherhood  and  peace  as 
well. 

"Faithfully  yours, 
"Stephen  L  Richards" 

I  am  sure  we  are  glad  to  hear  from  Elder  Richards  and  that  he 
is  that  far  on  his  way  home. 

President  David  O.  McKay  will  conduct  the  services  this  after- 
noon. 

President  David  O.  McKay; 

This  is  the  fourth  session  of  the  118th  Annual  Conference  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

There  are  on  the  stand  this  afternoon  all  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church  except  Elder  Stephen  L  Richards,  who  is  returning 
from  a  tour  of  the  South  American  Missions,  Elder  Matthew  Cowley, 
who  is  presiding  over  the  Pacific  Missions,  Elder  Thomas  E.  McKay, 
who  is  recovering  from  an  operation,  and  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  who  is 
in  Europe  in  charge  of  European  affairs. 

This  service  and  others  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL,  and  by 
special  arrangement  through  KSL,  the  session  will  be  broadcast  over 
the  following  stations:  KDSH  at  Boise,  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KID 
at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at 
Vernal,  and  over  KTYL  at  Mesa  by  transcription. 

Any  important  messages  and  calls  that  come  to  us  for  persons 
supposed  to  be  in  attendance  at  the  Conference  will  be  announced  at 
the  dismissal  of  this  meeting  over  the  loud  speaking  system  on  the 
grounds.  We  suggest  you  listen  to  those  announcements  as  you  leave 
this  building. 

The  choir  singing  for  this  session  will  be  furnished  by  the  Brig- 
ham Young  University  Mixed  Chorus,  with  Elder  Franklin  Madsen 
conducting  and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

The  opening  song  by  the  mixed  chorus  will  be  "Give  Unto  the 
Lord,"  by  Cadman;  solo  by  Sister  Jean  Howard. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Samuel  A. 
Hendricks  of  the  Malad  Stake. 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 


89 


Singing  by  the  Chorus,  "Give  Unto  the  Lord,"  by  Cadman. 
President  Samuel  A.  Hendricks,  of  the  Malad  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  wish  that  all  who  are  listening  in  could  see  this  crowd  of 
young  men  and  young  women  who  are  occupying  all  the  seats  in  the 
choir  area  and  overflowing  into  the  seats  of  the  gallery. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus  will  now  sing 
"O  Be  Joyful  All  Ye  Lands,"  by  Gretchaninoff. 

The  Chorus  sang:  "O  Be  Joyful  All  Ye  Lands." 

ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

One  cannot  read  the  record  of  Paul's  missionary  service  without 
sensing  his  deep  solicitude  for  those  who  through  his  ministry  had 
been  converted  to  the  faith.  As  he  moved  from  place  to  place,  he 
contrived  by  one  means  or  another  to  keep  himself  informed  of  the 
progress  and  failures  of  the  bodies  of  the  Church  which  he  had 
previously  established.  To  him  they  appeared  to  be  as  children  who 
had  not  yet  learned  to  walk  alone,  and  he  stood  over  them  with  out- 
stretched hand  to  pick  them  up  and  steady  them  again  when  their 
childish  unsteady  feet  stumbled  and  they  were  threatened  with  too 
disastrous  a  fall.  Out  of  the  gleanings  of  such  information  as  filtered 
through  to  him,  he  constructed  a  picture  of  their  doings  and  of  the 
particular  nature  of  the  dangers  which  threatened  their  steadfastness. 

Letters  of  Paul 

Then  he  wrote  them  letters  of  instruction  and  of  admonition 
and  of  promise,  designed  to  fortify  them  in  their  beliefs,  and  to  warn 
them  of  the  disastrous  consequences  of  unwholesome  practices  and 
to  revive  in  their  hearts  the  stirrings  of  a  reborn  hope — a  pattern  in- 
cidentally which  might  profitably  be  studied  by  all  having  respon- 
sibilities of  leadership. 

Among  the  objects  of  his  special  concern  were  the  Philippian 
saints.  He  wrote  them  some  letters,  one  of  which  contained  this 
pregnant  exhortation: 

Wherefore,  my  beloved,  as  ye  have  always  obeyed,  not  as  in  my 
presence  only,  but  now  much  more  in  my  absence,  work  out  your  own 
salvation  with  fear  and  trembling.    (Philippians  2:12.) 

So  great  was  Paul's  yearning  for  them  that  it  is  easy  to  picture 
him  as  willing,  even  eager,  if  he  could  have  done  it,  to  have  made 
their  struggle  for  them  that  they  might  have  been  spared  the  disap- 
pointments and  discouragements  and  heartaches  incident  to  their 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  5  Second  Day 

climb  upward  to  the  high  plane  which  his  teaching  had  set  for  them. 
But  that  could  not  be  done.  They  had  to  fight  their  own  fight;  they 
had  to  rise  through  their  own  endeavor.  In  short,  they  had  to  work 
out  their  own  salvation,  and  he  so  told  them. 

That  is  the  statement  of  a  principle  of  such  primary  importance 
that  it  ought  to  be  received  as  axiomatic. 

Work  Essential  to  Progress 

Work  is  a  condition  precedent  to  progress  and  accomplish- 
ment in  every  realm  of  life.  It  is  a  commonplace,  accepted  by  all 
without  question,  that  the  way  to  develop  strength  of  muscle  in  the 
physical  body  is  to  exercise  the  muscles,  to  put  them  to  work  per- 
forming the  function  for  which  they  were  intended.  By  inaction, 
nonuse,  they  would  grow  flabby  and  finally  lose  the  power  to  fill 
the  duties  of  their  natural  offices.  It  is  readily  admitted,  too,  that 
mental  vigor  comes  only  when  the  powers  of  the  mind  are  extended 
to  the  mastery  of  diffcult  tasks.  We  all  have  had  the  disappointing 
experience  of  seeing  young  men  of  apparently  scintillating  brilliance 
fail  utterly  of  achieving  the  distinction  which  their  natural  endow- 
ment gave  promise  of,  just  as  we  have  been  happily  surprised  at  the 
success  gained  by  some  of  slower  mentality.  The  difference  lies  in 
their  differing  degrees  of  industry  and  endurance.  The  tenacious, 
ploddng  mind  has  often  outrun  the  quick  and  apparently  more  alert 
one  simply  because  the  possessor  of  the  former  has  been  willing  to 
submit  himself  to  the  rigid  discipline  of  weary  hours  of  toil  which 
the  latter  would  not  endure.  Almost  we  might,  it  seems  to  me,  lay  it 
down  as  a  working  rule  that  achievement  is  in  proportion  to  the 
amount  of  intelligent  effort  one  is  willing  to  put  into  an  enterprise. 

Spirituality  Develops  through  Practice 

Strangely  enough,  while  the  truth  of  these  observations  is 
readily  admitted  in  relation  to  physical  and  mental  development, 
there  seem  to  be  relatively  few  who  recognize  their  equal  applicability 
to  what  is  spoken  of  as  the  spiritual  realm.  Taking  people  by  and 
large,  it  would  seem  that  an  overwhelmingly  preponderant  number 
of  them,  while  recognizing  fully  that  intellectual  growth  can  come 
only  through  unremitting  toil,  and  that  the  development  of  physical 
skill  can  come  only  through  persistent  effort,  yet  somehow,  when 
their  religious  or  spiritual  lives  are  concerned,  they  act  as  if  a  differ- 
ent rule  governs.  The  attitude  seems  to  be  that  religion  is  a  placid, 
quiescent  thing  imposing  no  dynamic  demand,  and  whose  details 
can  be  put  into  the  hands  of  some  chosen  class  to  take  care  of,  who 
relay  to  the  masses  the  essentials  in  the  way  of  formulas,  admonitions, 
or  exhortations.  What  is  spoken  of  as  spirituality  seems  not  to  be 
thought  of  as  being  susceptible  of  development  through  practice.  By 
some  occult  process  it  is  supposed  to  bloom  without  cultivation  and 
bear  fruit  without  tending. 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 


91 


I  find  no  warrant  anywhere  for  such  an  assumption.  If  one 
aspires  to  fashion  wood,  or  metal,  or  stone  into  houses,  or  cathedrals, 
or  temples,  or  into  some  more  delicate  form  of  beauty,  he  must  devel- 
op the  skill  for  his  craft  through  painstaking  toil  and  endeavor.  If 
he  would  paint  a  sunset,  or  coax  music  out  of  the  harp  or  lyre,  he 
must  cultivate  the  artistry  to  do  it  by  interminable  practice  with 
color  and  brush  or  instrument.  It  makes  no  difference  how  richly 
he  may  be  endowed  by  nature  with  talents  of  craftsmanship  or  artist- 
ry if  he  lets  those  talents  lie  unused  or  uncultivated,  he  will  never  ar- 
rive at  the  state  of  excellence  in  craftsmanship  or  art.  Howsoever  lav- 
ishly one  may  be  gifted  with  the  qualities  of  mind  that  would  fit  him  to 
be  a  great  mathematician,  or  chemist,  or  physicist,  or  biologist,  or 
historian,  he  never  can  become  either  except  at  the  price  of  grueling 
struggle  directed  with  intelligence  to  the  desired  end.  That  is  the 
inexorable  law  of  life.  It  may  neither  be  escaped  nor  circumvented. 
The  old  copybook  maxim  was:  "There  is  no  excellence  without 
labor."  That  must  remain  forever  true.  It  is  the  uncompromising 
law  of  this  world. 

Everything  Has  Its  Price 

Everything  has  its  price,  and,  if  obtained,  the  price  must  be  paid. 
No  one  ever  gets  anything  for  nothing.  People  sometimes  flatter 
themselves  that  they  do,  but  they  are  deceiving  themselves.  They 
always  pay  in  one  coin  or  another.  It  may  be  in  the  coin  of  the 
realm,  or  may  be  in  the  forfeiture  of  a  degree  of  self-respect,  or  of 
honor,  or  of  liberty,  or  the  free  exercise  of  the  right  of  choice.  We 
see  abundant  examples  of  this  all  about  us  today,  individuals  and 
whole  nations,  too,  beguiled  by  the  seductive  promises  of  plenty 
without  the  trouble  and  anxiety  of  care  for  their  own  concern,  sur- 
rendering themselves  to  the  fatuous  allurements  of  deceptive  dema- 
gogues or  to  the  blighting  tyrannies  of  ruthless  despots.  Like  Esau, 
they  are  selling  their  birthright  for  nothing  better  than  a  mess  of 
pottage.  And,  saddest  of  all,  they  are  dwarfing  their  own  powers 
for  progress  and  blighting  their  own  prospects  for  achievement. 

The  struggle  must  be  one's  own.  Nobody  may  do  the  learning 
act  for  another.  One  cannot  obtain  wisdom,  or  learning,  or  beauty 
of  character  as  a  gift  or  an  inheritance.  One's  father  and  a  long  line 
of  ancestry  may  have  achieved  distinction  in  one  or  more  of  the 
fields  of  notable  endeavor,  but  the  individual  may  not  ride  in  on  the 
accomplishments  of  either  or  all  of  them.  Here,  as  elsewhere,  he 
must  perfect  himself  through  his  own  striving;  and  he  cannot  rise 
above  the  level  of  his  own  accomplishment  wrought  through  his 
own  labor.  There  is  just  one  way  by  which  an  inspiring  son  may  rise 
to  the  same  eminence  as  an  illustrious  father,  and  that  is  through 
the  same  process  by  which  that  father  rose  to  the  high  plane  he 
occupies,  by  the  perfecting  of  his  own  powers,  through  mastering 
obstacles,  overcoming  discouragements,  cultivating  virtues,  and  press- 
ing unremittingly  towards  his  goal.   There  is  no  other  way. 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  5  Second  Dag 

The  Goal  of  Religion 

The  same  law  governs  in  respect  to  religious  or  spiritual  life. 
We  have  no  warrant  for  supposing  that  we  can  build,  or  piece  to- 
gether, or  fashion,  a  beautiful  or  perfect  life  without  working  pains- 
takingly at  it.  And  the  goal  of  all  religion  is  the  perfection  of  life. 
It  can  be  attained  only  through  practice  of  the  deeds  which  lead  to 
perfection.  It  was  the  Master  himself  who,  in  the  course  of  that 
inimitable  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  invited  his  listeners  to  this  high 
aspiration: 

Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven 
is  perfect.    (Matt.  5:48.) 

And  before  the  eyes  of  the  rich  young  man  who  came  inquiring 
what  good  thing  he  should  do  that  he  might  have  eternal  life,  Jesus 
dangled  the  concept  of  perfection  as  the  ultimate  goal  of  life: 

...  If  thou  wilt  be  perfect,  go  and  sell  that  thou  hast,  and  give  to 
the  poor,  and  thou  shalt  have  treasure  in  heaven:  and  come  and  follow 
me.  (Matt.  19:21.) 

Here  was  no  promise  of  a  sheltered,  placid  life,  but  rather  a  bidding 
to  heroic  action.  If  the  young  man  had  been  able  to  do  it,  he  would 
have  achieved  a  spiritual  grandeur  beyond  anything  all  his  wealth 
could  buy. 

Paul  says  of  the  Master  himself: 

Though  he  were  a  Son,  yet  learned  he  obedience  by  the  things  which 
he  suffered;  (Hebrews  5:8.) 

And  to  the  Corinthian  saints  he  wrote : 

.  .  .  and  every  man  shall  receive  his  own  reward  according  to  his 
own  labour.    (I  Cor.  3:8.) 

To  the  same  body  he  further  declared: 

Every  man's  work  shall  be  made  manifest:  for  the  day  shall  de- 
clare it,  because  it  shall  be  revealed  by  fire;  and  the  Are  shall  try  every 
man's  work  of  what  sort  it  is. 

If  any  man's  work  abide  which  he  hath  built  thereupon  [that  is 
upon  Jesus  Christ  as  the  foundation],  he  shall  receive  a  reward.  (Ibid., 
3:13-14.) 

Judgment  According  to  Works 

The  Revelator  declares  concerning  those  who  in  vision  he  saw 
come  forth  from  the  dead: 

.  .  .  and  they  were  judged  every  man  according  to  their  works.  (Rev. 
20:13.) 

In  that  beautiful  parable  of  the  builders,  Jesus  likened  that  man 
who  heard  his  sayings  and  did  them,  to  a  wise  man  who  built  his 
house  upon  a  rock,  and  when  it  was  caught  in  rain  and  flood  and 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 


93 


tempest,  it  fell  not,  for  it  was  founded  upon  a  rock;  but  he  who  heard 
his  sayings  and  did  them  not,  he  likened  to  a  foolish  man  who  built 
his  house  upon  the  sand,  and  when  the  rain  descended  and  the- 
floods  came  and  the  wind  blew  and  beat  upon  that  house,  it  fell,  and 
great  was  the  fall  of  it. 

Modern-day  revelation  is  replete  with  the  same  teaching,  de- 
claring with  directness  that  at  the  final  reckoning,  every  man  shall 
be  judged: 

.  .  .  according  to  his  works  and  the  deeds  which  he  hath  done. 
(D.  6  C.  19:3.) 

It  goes  much  further  than  that.   It  declares  that: 

Whatever  principle  of  intelligence  we  attain  unto  in  this  life,  it 
will  rise  with  us  in  the  resurrection. 

And  if  a  person  gains  more  knowledge  and  intelligence  in  this 
life  through  his  diligence  and  obedience  than  another,  he  will  have  so 
much  the  advantage  in  the  world  to  come.  (D.  &  C.  130:18-19.) 

That  is  only  another  way  of  saying  that  ennobling  qualities 
woven  into  a  life  are  eternal  things.  They  never  cease  to  be  of  value 
or  to  bring  their  reward.  It  is  to  be  noted,  too,  that  the  only  way  to 
get  them  is  by  diligence  and  obedience.  They  do  not  come  as  gratui- 
ties. In  fact,  it  is  the  growing  process  induced  by  diligent  effort 
that  eventuates  in  the  final  result.  There  is  no  need  to  multiply 
evidences.  Scriptural  teachings  as  well  as  the  teachings  of  experience 
and  reason  are  all  one  way. 

That  I  may  not  leave  any  chance  of  being  misunderstood,  I 
want  to  say  now  I  have  no  intention  of  getting  involved  in  the  old 
controversy  as  to  whether  salvation  is  by  works  or  by  grace.  With 
a  proper  definition  of  terms  there  is  no  basis  for  controversy. 

Growth  Depends  on  Individual  Exertions 

Neither  do  I  wish  to  be  understood  as  saying  that  technical 
intellectural  training  is  essential  to  spiritual  progress  or  understand- 
ing. There  are  too  many  evidences  to  the  contrary.  There  need, 
however,  be  no  enmity  between  the  two,  though  their  methods  may 
be  dissimilar.  Perhaps  the  assumed  distinction  between  the  spiritual 
and  the  temporal  grows  out  of  the  limitations  of  our  understanding. 
We  may  find  when  we  come  to  see  far  enough  down  the  perspective 
that  they  unite  in  one.  In  fact  God  has  said  that  to  him  all  things 
are  spiritual  and  not  at  any  time  has  he  made  anything  that  is  tem- 
poral. Perhaps,  for  safety,  I  ought  to  say,  too,  that  I  do  not  intend 
to  discount  the  reality  or  the  value  of  divine  interposition  in  aid  of 
struggling  mortals,  providing  redemption  and  the  plan  of  living 
which  they  could  not  provide  for  themselves.  The  thing  that  I  do 
want  to  make  clear  is  that  the  principle,  that  progress  and  growth 
depend  upon  our  own  exertion  and  compliance  with  the  governing 
laws,  is  a  universal  principle  applicable  in  the  spiritual  realm  no  less 
than  in  the  realm  of  the  temporal.    Otherwise  there  is  no  meaning 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  5  Second  Day 

to  the  great  parable  of  the  talents  spoken  of  by  Jesus.  He  likened 
the  kingdom  of  heaven  to  a  man  about  to  journey  to  a  far  country 
who  called  his  servants  to  him  and  delivered  to  them  his  goods  in 
proportion  to  their  several  abilities.  To>  one  he  gave  five  talents,  to 
another  two,  and  to  another  one.  He  who  received  the  five  talents 
forthwith  traded  with  them  and  doubled  them.  So  likewise  did  he 
who  received  the  two  talents.  But  he  of  the  one  talent  hid  it.  When 
the  master  returned,  each  gave  his  accounting.  They  who  had  multi- 
plied their  talents  were  commended,  but  he  who  returned  but  the  one 
talent  which  had  been  given  him  was  denounced  as  a  slothful  serv- 
ant, and  it  was  taken  from  him  and  given  to  the  one  who  had  con- 
verted the  five  into  ten. 

Church  Provides  Opportunities  to  Work 

This  brings  me  to  the  lesson  I  want  to  draw  from  all  that  has 
been  said  before  and  furnishes  the  justification  for  saying  it.  This 
Church  is  so  organized  that  it  provides  something  for  every  member 
to  do.  And  the  doing  of  those  things  offers  the  only  means  by 
which  members  grow  toward  their  promised  destiny.  Teachings  are, 
in  themselves,  mere  abstractions,  powerless  to  save  unless  they  are 
translated  into  deeds.  It  is  the  doing  of  the  deeds  that  leads  to 
growth  through  development  of  latent  powers  and  the  evolving  of 
desired  qualities  of  character.  And  deeds  are  the  individual  acts  of 
persons.  One  might  sit  passively  for  an  eternity  hearing  the  best  of 
instruction,  or  the  exposition  of  the  loftiest  of  principles  without 
being  much  improved  unless  those  teachings  and  principles  were 
made  fruitful  through  conversion  into  practices  of  living.  It  is  what 
we  make  of  our  lives  that  counts.  It  is  at  once  a  marvel  and  a 
beauty  of  Christ's  gospel  that  for  every  requirement  it  lays  down 
in  the  way  of  admonition  to  righteousness,  it  provides  a  practical 
means  for  bringing  it  about.  And  that  way  is  always  to  provide  things 
for  the  individual  to  do  which  result  in  the  development  of  the  de- 
sired qualities  of  mind  and  spirit.  This  it  does  through  the  organized 
Church. 

Thus  does  the  Church  become  the  medium  for  giving  practical 
effect  to  the  teachings  of  the  gospel.  It  introduces  order  where  in- 
effectiveness and  frustration  would  otherwise  be.  It  provides  the 
means  by  which  its  members  may  step  by  step  build  into  themselves 
that  aggregate  of  desired  qualities  which  make  men  good  and  crowd 
out  the  qualities  that  are  bad.  Thus  do  they  grow  towards  perfection 
and  do  their  part  towards  working  out  their  own  salvation. 

ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  am  very  grateful  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  this  privilege.  I 
wish  to  bear  to  you  my  humble  testimony  that  I  know  that  this  is  the 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 


95 


work  of  God  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God.  These 
very  words  and  the  utterance  of  this  testimony  have  already  brought 
a  blessing.  The  joy  that  floods  my  heart  and  soul  as  I  bear  this 
testimony  is  a  great  satisfaction. 

During  the  administration  of  President  Calvin  Coolidge  as  Presi- 
dent of  the  United  States,  I  became  a  great  admirer  of  the  things  he 
said  and  did.  I  want  to  read  a  few  lines  from  President  Coolidge: 

There  is  no  substitute  for  morality,  character,  and  religious  convic- 
tion. Unless  these  abide,  American  citizenship  will  be  found  unequal 
to  its  task.  Somehow  we  must  get  back  to  God,  and  that  is  very  difficult 
for  modern  minds  who  have  lost  simplicity. 

I  read  this  morning  this  verse  from  Jeremiah: 

.  .  .  Obey  my  voice,  and  I  will  be  your  God,  and  ye  shall  be  my 
people:  and  walk  ye  in  all  the  ways  that  I  have  commanded  you,  that 
it  may  be  well  unto  you.  (Jeremiah  7:23.) 

I  am  extremely  grateful  for  the  privileges  that  have  come  to  me 
during  my  last  calling  in  the  Church.  I  have  had  the  opportunity 
under  assignment  of  going  to  Europe,  Canada,  and  Mexico  as  well 
as  traveling  in  many  of  the  states  of  the  United  States.  Today  I 
would  like  to  express  appreciation  for  a  number  of  simple  incidents 
that  have  come  to  me  recently.  They  may  seem  to  you  simple  things 
on  an  occasion  like  this  when  great,  profound  doctrines  are  being 
taught,  but  to  me  these  simple  incidents  have  been  deeply  impressive, 
for  constantly  they  have  said  to  me, 

Have  more  faith,  live  your  religion,  be  what  you  say. 

Faith  Exhibited 

I  shall  not  forget  soon  a  young  man  at  the  hospital.  He  was 
entering  the  operating  room.  He  was  a  very  worthy  young  man 
and  very  dear  to  me  personally.  As  they  were  wheeling  him  into>  the 
operating  room,  the  doctor  noticed  that  his  eyes  were  closed.  He 
said  to  the  nurse,  "Take  his  pulse  quickly.  He  may  be  gone."  The 
young  man  opened  his  eyes  and  said,  "No,  I'm  not  gone  doctor.  I 
was  just  talking  to  the  Lord.  I  told  him  to  be  sure  to  be  with  you 
when  you  perform  this  operation.  You  may  go  ahead  any  time  now. 
I  am  ready." 

I  am  grateful  for  the  privilege  I  had  with  the  Mexican  people  of 
the  Mexican  and  Spanish- American  missions  at  the  Arizona  Temple, 
when  I  saw  a  humble  Saint,  entering  the  grounds,  take  off  her  shoes 
at  the  iron  gate.  I  hurried  over  to  her  and  said,  "You  may  take 
your  shoes  off  when  you  get  inside,"  and  she  said,  "Oh,  no,  I  will 
take  them  off  here.  This  is  sacred  ground  to  me."  Then  a  little  later 
in  the  sealing  room  I  saw  one  of  these  dark-skinned  mothers  take 
into  her  arms  her  sixteen-year  old  son  after  they  had  gone  through 
the  sacred  ceremony  of  sealing.  She  embraced  her  boy  and  said, 
"Now  you  are  mine  for  eternity.''  I  can't  forget  these  simple  things. 
To  me  they  are  truly  great  things.   They  have  kept  saying  to  me, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


Have  more  faith.  Know  more  about  the  temple  of  God.  Seek  the 
privileges  of  these  great  sacred  opportunities. 


Under  a  special  assignment  I  was  asked  this  year  to  go  to 
Coloma.California,  to  be  at  the  celebration  of  the  anniversary  of  the 
discovery  of  gold  and  to  represent  our  people  on  the  program.  Fifty 
to  sixty  thousand  were  in  attendance.  The  governor  and  other 
dignitaries  of  that  great  state  of  California  were  present.  They 
started  three  great  years  of  celebration.  I  was  very  happy  to  have 
the  privilege,  humbly,  to  represent  a  group  of  Latter-day  Saint  men 
of  the  Mormon  Battalion  who  were  there  at  that  time  a  hundred 
years  ago.  They  had  taken  a  contract  to  build  a  mill  when  the 
discovery  of  gold  came,  when  people  across  the  world  started  a  trek 
to  California  and  thousands  left  their  homes  and  work.  Even  in 
San  Francisco,  judges  were  leaving  their  benches.  People  left  their 
businesses.  They  rushed  wildly  to  the  place  where  gold  had  been 
discovered.  I  was  proud  to  represent  these  humble  Mormon  men. 
They  stayed  with  their  task  and  finished  their  contract.  They  had 
made  their  promise  to  finish  the  mill,  and  on  March  11,  1848,  the 
mill  was  finished.  Then  they  made  their  journey  over  the  Sierra 
Nevada  Mountains  to  meet  their  families  and  friends.  The  character, 
stability,  the  word  of  these  men  told  me  again  what  I  must  do. 


I  am  grateful  for  a  young  missonary  this  year  whom  I  met  in  the 
mission  field.  He  told  me  of  an  incident  that  happened  just  a  few 
days  before.  He  said,  "Brother  Kirkham,  I  had  a  rather  interesting 
experience  just  the  other  day.  My  companion  and  I  were  going  out 
tracting.  We  had  been  instructed  always  to  be  prayerful  as  we  ap- 
proached a  house,  and  when  I  came  to  the  door  the  woman  said  to 
me,  'I  understand  you  are  a  Mormon  missionary.  Well,  I  don't 
want  anything  to  do  with  you.  I  know  something  about  your  people. 
You're  just  a  menace.  Leave  this  place.'  Then,"  said  the  young 
missionary,  "I  had  been  told  to  be  prayerful,  so  I  continued  in  my 
heart  to  pray  as  I  stood  listening  to  what  she  had  to  say.  The  woman 
continued  telling  me  what  she  thought  of  me  and1  our  people,  and 
asked  me  again  to  leave.  I  continued  to  pray.  In  a  few  moments  she 
turned  abruptly  and  said,  'Well,  why  don't  you  come  in?'  "  Thank 
God  for  the  stability  of  the  generation  that's  marching  on  to  the 
greatest  destiny  of  our  people.  They  have  taught  me  many  helpful 
lessons. 

May  God  grant  that  I  may  live  worthy  of  their  association,  that 
I  may  live  and  do  the  thing  I  speak.  May  God  grant  that  same  high 
privilege  to  you,  for  then  happiness  shall  be  ours,  and  we  will  not 
need  to  go  away  to  carry  the  message.   The  world  will  come  to  us.. 

God  bless  us,  I  humbly,  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


California  Celebration 


Tracting  Experience 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


97 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


Like  Brother  Romney,  I  have  spent  some  time  in  preparing  a 
speech.  However,  a  little  different  from  his  circumstances,  I  haven't 
been  able  to  get  the  spirit  to  give  that  speech.  I  think  when  President 
McKay  spoke  my  name  my  heart  skipped  a  couple  of  beats,  and  I 
haven't  been  able  to  catch  up  with  it  yet. 


I  have  always  been  impressed  with  the  assemblies  in  these 
conferences,  ever  since  I  was  a  small  child.  I  have  enjoyed  very 
much  especially  the  priesthood  meetings,  and  as  I  look  out  over  this 
audience  here  today  and  see  this  gathering  of  men  in  the  body  of  the 
hall  who  are  all  holders  of  the  priesthood,  backed  by  their  wives  or 
their  sweethearts,  or  the  other  members  of  their  families,  I  am  in- 
spired with  the  power  that  lies  behind  them.  We  have  been  re- 
minded of  the  power  of  twelve  men  who  in  the  earlier  days  did  a 
powerful  work  upon  the  earth.  Today  we  have  twelve  men  with 
the  same  power  and  the  same  authority,  the  same  message,  the  same 
responsibility  given  to  them.  Not  only  do  we  have  the  twelve  men 
but  we  also  have  thousands  and  hundreds  of  thousands  of  brethren 
in  the  Church  holding  the  same  priesthood,  the  same  power  to  go  out 
and  gather  the  people  of  the  earth  and  give  to  them  that  same  power, 
that  they  may  receive  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  gospel,  that 
they  might  also  catch  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  and  progress  and  work 
out  their  salvation. 

This  power  of  the  priesthood  is  more  than  that.  It  is  the  power 
to  represent  Jesus  Christ,  and  all  that  the  men  do  within  the  authority 
and  power  of  that  priesthood  is  just  the  same  as  if  Jesus  Christ  him- 
self were  there  personally  doing  it;  that  means  in  all  the  admin- 
istrations and  all  the  ordinations  and  in  all  the  other  activities  which 
they  perform.  We  readily  accept  it  when  we  tell  the  deacons  and 
the  priests  and  those  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  that  they  are  repre- 
senting Jesus  Christ  when  they  administer  the  sacrament  and  pass 
it  to  the  congregation.  We  readily  accept  it  in  the  various  ordina- 
tions performed  by  those  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood;  but 
to  me  the  power  of  the  priesthood  reaches  much  farther  than  that. 
We  have  also  the  patriarchs  who  are  sitting  over  there,  who  are  a 
representation  of  the  patriarchs  in  the  Church.  I  think  we  have  about 
a  third  of  the  patriarchs,  maybe  less,  represented  in  this  group,  who 
also  have  the  power  to  lay  their  hands  on  your  heads,  if  you  desire 
it.  and  pronounce  blessings  upon  your  heads,  and  with  such  power 
that  the  Lord  will  accept  of  those  blessings,  and,  through  your  activ- 
ities and  through  your  efforts  to  fulfill  those  blessings,  the  Lord 
himself  shall  sanction  those  blessings  to  your  good.  It  goes  even 
farther  than  that,  to  me.  We  have  had  many  in  our  Church  who 
have  prophesied,  told  us  of  things  to  come  in  the  future  and  which 
have  come  to  pass.    We  have  heard  much  during  this  conference 


Power  of  the  Priesthood 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.  April  5  Second  Dag 

of  the  prophecies  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  which  have  been  true 
prophecies,  and  prophecies  are  being  made  all  the  time  today,  not 
so  outstanding  probably  as  those  that  Joseph  Smith  gave  in  the 
beginning,  but  we  are  given  warning,  and  are  given  counsel  and 
advice  and  told  that  if  we  don't  follow  it,  we  will  reap  the  penalty 
or  reward  in  accordance  to  our  actions  and  our  deeds.  To  me  the 
power  of  the  priesthood  goes  even  farther  than  that.  The  power  of 
the  priesthood  is  the  same  power  which  Christ  used  in  creating  the 
earth.  The  limits  of  the  power  of  the  priesthood  are  endless.  The 
power  of  the  priesthood,  if  used  correctly,  under  the  proper  inspira- 
tion, may  command  the  elements,  and  they  shall  obey  in  accordance 
to  the  will  of  the  Lord. 

Miraculous  Healings  through  Priesthood 

Last  Wednesday  we  heard  several  of  the  mission  presidents 
bear  testimony  in  the  temple  meeting,  of  the  ministrations  which 
have  been  miraculously  accepted,  that  healings  were  made  almost 
immediately,  some  were  immediate,  that  the  power  of  the  Lord  is 
being  poured  out  upon  this  people  all  over  this  earth  in  the  same 
manner.  Through  the  administration  of  those  who  hold  the  priest- 
hood even  the  elements  of  the  earth  obey.  The  power  of  the  priest- 
hood is  the  power  of  Christ,  which  he  had  to  create  the  earth  and 
all  that  lives  on  it.  Now  if  Christ  has  delegated  that  power  to  us, 
and  we  use  it  correctly  with  faith,  then  why  should  we  hesitate  to 
administer  to  the  sick?  Why  should  we  hesitate  to  call  upon  his 
help?  Why  should  we  hesitate  to  call  upon  the  elders  at  any  time 
we  need  the  power  of  the  Lord  with  us? 

Experiments  with  Atomic  Bomb 

We  have  taught  since  the  beginning  of  this  dispensation  the 
doctrine  of  the  indestructibility  of  matter,  and  during  the  war  I  had 
the  experience  of  working  in  the  plant  which  produced  the  materials 
for  the  atomic  bomb.  We  were  working,  you  might  say,  with  an 
invisible  ray,  because  we  took  the  material,  put  it  through  a  certain 
process  which  made  it  invisible  to  the  eye.  Then  it  was  caught  again 
in  a  separated  condition,  separating  the  U235  and  U238  and  other 
elements  of  uranium.  As  a  result  of  using  those  materials,  elements 
of  the  earth  were  dissipated  into  the  air.  The  steel  tower  for  instance 
upon  which  the  first  atomic  bomb  was  exploded,  vaporized;  that 
steel  tower  was  dissipated  into  the  atmosphere.  We  didn't  re- 
turn it,  but  none  of  it  has  been  destroyed.  It  has  just  been  broken 
up  into  a  different  form.  The  atmosphere  is  full  of  materials,  and 
wherever  there  is  one  law  given,  there  is  a  reverse  law  or  contrary 
law.  We  have  learned  the  law  that  we  may  break  up  the  elements 
of  the  earth,  to  a  great  extent. 

Priesthood  Exercised  through  Faith 

The  power  of  the  priesthood  is  the  power  to  call  upon  God 
who  knows  the  reverse  law,  and  in  accordance  to  his  will,  he  will 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


99 


exercise  his  power  to  call  together  the  elements  or  to  put  them  into 
action  for  our  benefit.  By  such  process  beyond  our  mortal  control 
and  beyond  our  knowledge,  the  sick  can  be  healed;  the  blind  can 
be  made  to  see;  the  deaf  can  be  made  to  hear.  God  has  those  powers, 
and  he  has  given  them  to  us  through  the  power  of  the  priesthood. 
How  can  we  strengthen  that  faith  which  we  have  that  will  help  us 
to  use  that  power,  for  we  cannot  use  the  power  of  the  priesthood 
correctly  without  faith.  Our  faith  and  our  testimony  are  strengthen- 
ed day  by  day  in  our  actions  and  in  our  deeds.  We  have  had  called 
to  our  attention,  during  this  conference,  many  of  the  ways  by  which 
we  can  strengthen  our  testimony  and  strengthen  our  faith.  We  will 
go  away  from  this  conference  remembering  little  of  the  words  that 
were  spoken,  but  if  we  can  instil  into  ourselves  the  desire  to  get  out 
and  do  more  for  our  fellow  men  and  our  fellow  workers,  we  have 
gained  the  purpose  of  these  conferences,  and  with  the  help  of  the 
Lord  we  shall  work  harder  and  go  farther  and  progress  faster  in 
the  work  of  the  Lord  here  in  the  earth. 

In  closing  let  me  quote  a  poem  which  expresses  the  thought  of 
how  we  can  strengthen  our  testimony  and  our  faith  that  we  might 
use  the  power  of  the  Lord  and  have  it  with  us  more  abundantly: 

OTHERS 

Lord,  let  me  live  from  day  to  day 

In  such  a  self-forgetful  way 
That  even  when  I  kneel  to  pray, 

My  prayers  will  be  for  Others. 

Help  me  in  all  the  work  I  do 

To  ever  be  sincere  and  true 
And  know  that  all  I  do  for  you 

Must  needs  be  done  for — Others. 

Let  "self"  be  crucified  and  slain 

And  buried  deep;  and  all  in  vain 
May  efforts  be  to  rise  again 

Unless  to  live  for — Others. 

And  when  my  work  on  earth  is  done 
And  my  new  work  in  heaven's  begun, 

May  I  forget  the  crown  I've  won 
While  thinking  still  of — Others. 

Others,  Lord,  yes  others, 

Let  this  my  motto  be; 
Help  me  to  live  for  others, 

That  I  may  live  like  thee. 

— C.  D.  Meigs 

I  bear  you  my  testimony,  by  brothers  and  sisters,  that  I  know 
this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord  and  that  this  power  of  the  priesthood 
which  has  been  given  to  this  people  is  truly  the  power  of  God.  If 
we  will  continue  to  live  as  he  has  taught  us,  it  shall  be  a  source  of 
happiness  and  joy  to  us  all  and  shall  enable  us  to  accomplish  the 
duties  required  of  us  from  day  to  day  in  our  lives.  I  bear  you  this 
testimony  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  5  Second  Day 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus  and  the  congre- 
gation joined  in  singing  the  hymn;  "How  Firm  a  Foundation." 
(Hymn  Book,  p.  260;  L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  329.) 


ELDER  S.  DIL WORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

While  I  have  been  sitting  here  today,  I  have  been  wondering 
how  many  of  you  in  this  audience  have  sons  or  daughters  in  the 
mission  field.  I  don't  believe  President  Smith  would  mind  if  I  ask 
you  to  show  your  hands.  Please  do  so.  [A  good  number  of  hands.] 
I  am  interested  also  in  knowing  how  many  of  you  folk  here  have  ever 
traveled  on  missions  for  the  Lord  and  for  the  Church  and  at  one  time 
or  another  on  those  missions  have  traveled  without  money.  Would 
you  mind  showing  your  hands?  [A  very  large  number  responded.] 
The  number  is  sufficient  to  give  me  courage  to  go  ahead  and  talk. 

Responsibility  of  a  Mission  President 

I  have  a  distinct  feeling  of  humbleness  when  I  realize  that  I  am 
one  of  a  large  number  of  men  in  whom  the  Presidency  of  the  Church 
has  placed  the  responsibility  of  guiding  the  young  men  of  the  Church 
on  missions.  The  Lord  said,  in  trying  to  explain  his  purposes  to  men, 
and  of  course  he  had  to  use  the  words  of  men: 

.  .  .  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring   to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man.  (Moses  1:39.) 

When  I  see  your  boys  come  out  into  the  field,  with  fear  in  their  eyes 
and  fear  in  their  hearts,  not  knowing  how  to  commence,  I  realize 
that  somehow  my  responsibility  is  to  bring  to  pass  in  their  hearts 
and  their  lives  what  the  Lord  desires  when  he  said  he  wanted  to 
bring  men  into  eternal  life.  It  fills  me  with  fear.  I  confess  to  you 
that  I  have  spent  more  hours  of  the  night  in  sleeplessness  since  I 
arrived  on  this  mission,  worrying  about  it,  than  I  have  at  any  other 
time  in  my  life.  I  am  sure,  too,  that  I  speak  for  my  co-laborers 
when  I  say  this. 

Without  Purse  or  Scrip 

How  well  these  young  men  perform  you  need  have  no  fear. 
They  are  remarkable.  They  come  among  the  people  of  the  world, 
and  they  are  determined  that  theirs  shall  be  a  mission  filled  with 
honor.  They  do  not  yet  know  for  certain  the  one  great  lesson  they 
must  learn  before  they  can  be  good  missionaries,  but  they  certainly 
are  anxious  to  learn  it.  I  can  still  see  a  six-foot  four  lad  with  eyes  so 
large — it  seems  to  me  they  filled  his  whole  face  they  were  so  large — 
he  came  into  the  mission  home  after  a  long  ride  and  sat  down,  anct  we 
talked.  Somehow  he  had  heard  he  was  going  to  go  out  and  do  some 
work  in  the  country  so  he  was  nervous  about  it,  and  he  began  to 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG  101 


ask  me  questions.  He  said,  "President  Young,  are  we  going  to  carry 
copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  with  us?''  I  assured  him  that  he  was. 
He  said,  "May  we  read  these  copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon?"  "Oh," 
I  said,  "we  want  you  to  read  them.  You  are  supposed  to  know 
what's  on  the  inside  so  you  can  tell  the  people  of  the  world  about 
them."  He  thought  about  that  for  a  minute.  He  said,  "Do  you 
mean  we  can  read  the  Book  of  Mormon  we  carry  with  us,  and  that 
we're  going  to  carry  some?"  "Yes,  sir."  He  heaved  quite  a  sigh  of 
relief  and  finally  said,  "Well,  I  don't  mind  going  without  purse,  but 
I  didn't  want  to  go  without  script."  The  boy  really  thought  we  were 
going  to  take  his  Bible,  his  Book  of  Mormon,  his  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, his  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  and  all  of  his  tracts  away  from  him 
and  let  him  go  with  an  empty  suitcase. 

Carrying  Gospel  to  Indians 

Now,  I  should  like  to  say  one  thing  with  regard  to  the  principles 
of  this  matter.  Brother  Bowen's  remarks  today  are  the  key  to  it. 
Any  boy  who  goes  into  the  mission  field  with  an  idea  that  he  is  going 
to  get  personal  development  out  of  it  will  fail.  If  he  goes  into  the 
mission  field  forgetting  himself,  with  only  the  idea  that  he  is  going 
to  do  something  for  the  people  of  the  world,  that  his  message  is  the 
most  sacred  trust  that  he  can  possibly  have,  he  cannot  fail.  That's 
the  lesson  that  the  elders  learn.  How  well  they  learn  it  I  should  like 
to  attest  before  you  by  letting  them  speak  for  themselves.  I  sent  two 
of  your  boys  out,  recently,  to  a  tribe  of  Indians.  That's  nothing 
unusual.  Ever  since  Brother  Kimball  has  urged  us  to  get  busy,  most 
of  the  brethren  in  the  missions  have  done  so,  but  I  have  delayed  until 
just  recently.  These  young  men  said  to  me  before  they  left,  "What 
are  your  instructions?"  I  had  none  for  them.  I  did  not  know  what 
to  tell  them,  so  I  said,  "I  don't  know,  but  you  go  up  there,  and  if  you 
have  had  the  proper  training  in  this  misson,  you  will  know  what  to 
do,  after  you  have  asked  the  Lord."  I  assured  them  that  if  they  were 
humble  enough  and  really  desired  to  help  those  people  find  out 
about  their  ancestors,  the  way  would  be  opened.  Their  faces  were 
white  when  they  left,  and  I  am  sure  they  were  uneasy  about  the  as- 
signment. May  I  now  let  them  speak  for  themselves?  I  borrowed 
from  one  of  the  boy's  parents  a  letter  and  would  like  to  read  a  small 
portion  of  it  to  you: 

"President  Young  gave  us  no  instructions,  but  we  have  had  free 
rein  and  have  only  to  depend  on  the  Lord  to  guide  us  in  presenting 
our  message.  He  has  blessed  us  even  more  than  we  could  have  hoped 
for.''  Then  he  tells  how  they  hired  a  hall  in  the  reservation  hoping 
the  Indians  would  come  out,  how  only  one  or  two  showed  up,  even 
though  they  had  promises  from  many,  how  they  felt  very  much  dis- 
couraged about  it.  Finally,  they  left.  An  old  gentleman  at  the  hall 
walked  out,  too.  Catching  up  with  them  on  a  corner,  they  began  to 
talk  as  they  walked  along.  Finally  the  gentleman  said  to  them  (as 
they  were  silently  praying  to  know  what  to  do,  because  they  didn't 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.  April  5  Second  Day 

want  to  have  their  evening  spoiled).    "I  know  a  lady  down  here 
who  I  think  would  like  to  hear  you." 
Their  letter  continues : 

"Well,  we  had  nothing  to>  lose  and  felt  we  should  go  in  and  see 
her,  so  we  did.  They  were  the  people  to  whom  we  had  loaned  a 
Book  of  Mormon,  a  Mrs.  Shay  and  a  couple  of  other  people.  These 
are  Indian  people  with  American  names.  We  were  just  going  to 
spend  a  while  visiting  one  or  two  people,  we  thought,  and  maybe  to 
talk  about  the  Church  some,  but  the  Lord  had  other  ideas.  The 
people  who  were  in  the  house  didn't  avoid  us  as  most  would,  but 
came  on  in  the  living  room  and  sat  down,  and  another  girl  came  in 
and  sat  down  in  the  living  room.  The  Franceses  came  in,  then  came 
another  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Shay  who  were  going  to  the  hall  quite  late, 
but  finding  us  not  there  just  happened  in  at  the  place  where  we  were. 
Another  young  man  drifted  in  and  took  a  chair,  another  young  girl, 
then  two  ladies  came.  They  had  been  directed  to  where  we  were  by 
a  sick  man  who  had  just  heard,"  (and  the  elder  adds  in  his  letter) 
"I  wonder  how  he  heard  about  where  we  were. 

"Then  Chief  Tahachee  himself  drifted  in,  and  before  the  evening 
was  over  a  couple  or  three  more.  It  was  miraculous  how  people  just 
seemed  to  gravitate  to  where  we  were.  It  just  worked  in  perfectly  for 
a  warm  friendly  cottage  meeting  which  I  suggested,  as  Elder  M. 
felt  the  same  way.  With  an  audience  of  ten  or  twelve  adults  and 
a  couple  of  children  we  began  the  meeting.  Elder  M.  prayed  beauti- 
fully. I  stood  and  talked  on  the  restoration  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
for  twenty  minutes  or  so,  the  most  inspired,  easiest  talk  I  ever  gave. 
It  was  promoted  by  the  Holy  Ghost;  I  know  it  was.  I  bore  my  testi- 
mony humbly  and  fervently  to  the  truthfulness  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, their  book,  and  that  the  Church  is  true,  and  that  Jesus  lives.  I 
told  them  of  the  vision  of  Joseph  Smith,  of  the  bringing  forth  of  the 
book,  about  the  Witnesses,  the  need  for  the  Book  of  Mormon.  The 
people  were  very  attentive  and  drank  it  all  in,  and  then  Elder  M. 
got  up  and  gave  a  beautiful  talk  confirming  mine,  telling  more  about 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  how  to  get  a  testimony  and  other  great  points 
pertinent  to  the  time.  It  was  an  inspired  talk.  Then  a  half  hour  of 
questions,  and  we  loaned  or  gave  to  them"  (according  to  how  it 
works  out,  I  suppose)  "five  more  Books  of  Mormon.  They  were 
eager  to  have  them,  and  I  think  will  really  read  them  with  real  interest 
and  with  real  intent  to  know  the  truth.  After  I  closed  with  prayer, 
there  was  a  little  more  questioning,  and  we  left  with  a  fine  spirit  in 
the  place  and  went  with  Chief  Tahachee  toward  the  river.  As  we 
left,  Mrs.  Shay  told  us  we  could  hold  a  meeting  at  her  place  again 
if  we  didn't  get  the  hall,  and  she  would  invite  those  interested.  Chief 
Tahachee  took  us  to  his  house  to  meet  his  wife  and  played  records 
of  her  singing  of  Indian  songs,  and  he  chanted  and  played  tom-toms 
for  us.  He  was  very  friendly.  As  we  left  his  place  and  headed  home 
across  the  frozen  river  in  the  bright  moonlight,  I  said,  'You  can't 
tell  me  prayers  aren't  answered.'  " 


ELDER  S.  D1LWORTH  YOUNG  103 


That  letter  is  from  a  pair  of  missionaries  who  went  out  some 
time  ago  in  the  mission  field  and  were  obedient,  with  the  belief  that 
if  they  did  their  best  and  were  humble,  they  could  hear  in  their  hearts 
the  voice  of  the  Lord  directing  them  what  to  do.  They  are  opening 
up  the  work  with  that  particular  tribe  of  Indians,  not  by  my  direc- 
tion, I  assure  you,  but  under  the  inspiration  the  Lord  gives  to  those 
who  humbly  desire  to  discover  for  themselves  by  works  what  he  de- 
sires. 

Change  Wrought  in  Missionary 

I  would  like  to  give  one  more  incident,  if  I  may:  We  had  a 
missionary  go  out  to  stay  but  a  year.  He  informed  me  that  he  had 
come  out  to  get  an  experience.  He  didn't  want  to  go  through  his 
life  and  finish  his  college  without  being  able  to  say  that  he  had  had 
a  missionary  experience.  He  felt  it  would  do  him  good.  This  is 
what  he  writes : 

"In  these  past  three  months  He  has  abundantly  blessed  me  be- 
yond my  power  of  words  to  express,  and  a  rich  deep  feeling  of  hap- 
piness which  I  have  within  me  at  this  moment  and  which  I  have  en- 
joyed during  this  work  has  been  pay  enough  for  me.  May  I  enu- 
merate just  how  He  has  blessed  us  and  what  the  results  are?" 

( He  isn't  going  home  at  the  end  of  his  year. ) 

"The  way  was  opened  to  us  to  change  our  place  of  lodging  and 
to  find  a  lovely  three-room  apartment  completely  furnished  for  only 
ten  dollars  a  month,  (They  had  been  paying  ten  dollars  a  week,) 
"living  in  the  house  of  good  Christian  people  and  every  opportunity 
to  preach  the  gospel  to  them.  During  these  three  months  we  have 
sold  forty-five  copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  held  fifty-two 
cottage  meetings. 

"We  organized  a  Sunday  School  with  an  attendance  of  twenty- 
five  persons  there  this  past  Sunday  and  a  promise  of  fifteen  others 
that  they  would  start  attending  in  the  immediate  future.  Been  invited 
out  to  ninety  dinners,  thus  cutting  down  our  expenses,  and  also  pro- 
viding a  way  that  we  could  preach  the  gospel  to  them.  We  have 
had  the  following  items  given  to  us:  Thirty-three  quarts  of  pre- 
serves, ten  dozen  eggs,  three  pies,  four  cakes,  six  jars  of  jams  and 
jellies,  three  cans  of  honey,  thus  cutting  down  some  more  on  the  ex- 
penses. Perhaps  the  greatest  exhibit  to  show  for  this  work  is  the 
fact  that  five  persons  have  requested  baptism  at  our  hands,  and  two 
men  who  have  been  members  of  the  Church,  have  repented  of  theii 
sins  and  are  earnestly  living  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  are  desirous 
of  advancing  in  the  priesthood. 

"Two  future  requests  to  speak  before  large  groups  of  from 
forty  to  sixty  people  on  the  subject  of  Mormonism.  All  of  these 
items  point  to  the  fact  that  it  can  be  done  if  a  missionary  desires  to  do 
the  will  of  his  Father  in  heaven  and  realize  the  hopes  of  the  folks 
who  send  him,  and  it  can  be  done  in  the  period  of  a  few  short 
months." 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  5  Second  Dag 

Those  two  young  brethren,  my  friends  and  fellow  workers, 
are  only  two  of  four  thousand  who  feel  just  exactly  the  same  way. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  give  them  support  by  our  faith  and 
prayers,  I  ask,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  it  is  a  great  inspiration  to  see  all  of  you 
folk  before  me,  you  who  are  leaders  in  the  stakes  and  wards  and 
missions.   I  pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord. 

Work  Among  Indians  Progressing 

It  has  been  hard  for  me  to  refrain  from  talking  about  the  Indians 
this  time,  but  I  must  mention  one  or  two  items  inasmuch  as  President 
S.  Dilworth  Young  has  spoken  of  them. 

Down  on  the  Navajo  Reservation,  the  Indians  call  the  members 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  "Gamalii."  Re- 
cently at  mission  headquarters,  they  were  trying  to  ascertain  from 
the  natives,  themselves,  what  this  word  meant  to  them.  And  one 
Navajo  said,  "A  'Gamalii  is  one  who  invites  you  to  dinner  and  does 
not  charge  you  for  it."  And  another  said,  "A  'Gamalii  is  one  who 
has  the  same  father  and  mother  that  we  have." 

I  will  just  say  that  the  work  among  the  Indians  is  progressing, 
for  which  we  are  deeply  grateful. 

Eruption  of  Mt.  Vesuvius 

I  want  to  comment  on  another  theme  and  preface  it  by  a  little 
experience:  Back  in  1937,  Sister  Kimball  and  I  had  the  privilege  of 
traveling  through  some  of  the  European  countries,  and  it  was  our 
privilege  to  go,  among  other  places,  to  Italy.  And  one  of  the  most 
intriguing  sights  in  that  country  was  Mt.  Vesuvius  in  eruption.  Here 
we  saw  a  high,  conically-shaped  mountain,  and  at  night  for  nearly 
a  hundred  miles  we  could  see  the  display  of  fireworks  in  the  heavens. 
We  came  around  the  semi-circular  bay  of  Naples  to  the  city  of  Pom- 
peii. As  a  child  I  had  read  the  book,  The  Last  Days  of  Pompeii, 
telling  about  the  eruption  of  79  A.D.,  when  the  cities  of  Pompeii 
and  Herculaneum  were  destroyed.  Here  we  were,  visiting  the  city 
of  the  dead,  which  had  been  covered  and  hidden  for  nearly  two  mil- 
lenniums. We  walked  through  the  streets  of  this  deserted  city,  now 
excavated;  we  went  into  the  shops,  homes,  and  temples;  we  saw  their 
liquor  establishments  and  houses  of  prostitution  with  the  pictures  still 
on  the  walls  in  original  colors.  These  all  had  been  buried  under 
ashes  for  long  centuries.  We  climbed  this  mountain  with  its  cinders 
and  lava,  and  when  we  came  into  the  great  crater  at  the  top,  we  were 
amazed  to  find  that  a  few  inches  beneath  our  feet  was  molten  lava, 
still  flaming. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  105 


We  climbed  up  into  the  crater  of  that  volcanic  mountain.  In 
ages  past  there  had  been  a  terrific  convulsion  of  nature,  and  a  moun- 
tain was  born.  Lying  dormant  for  long  centuries,  the  monster  had 
watched  with  evil  eye  the  coming  of  the  inhabitants,  the  planting  of 
vineyards  upon  its  sunny  slopes,  and  the  building  of  homes  upon  its 
foothills.  But  finally  in  jealous  rage  at  seeing  green  things  grow,  and 
children  laugh  and  play,  and  life  spring  up  in  contrast  to  its  age-old 
environment  of  desolation  and  death,  the  ogre  burst  forth  in  fiery 
blasts  spewing  its  seething  vomit  from  its  corrupt  throat  in  molten 
lava  to  run  down  its  sides  and  to  fill  the  heavens  with  its  ash  and 
steam  and  rocks.  The  volcano  was  merciless.  It  would  leave  noth- 
ing to  grow  upon  its  breasts. 

In  a  matter  of  hours  the  fury  of  this  powerful  destroyer  had 
seared  the  trees,  the  vines,  and  all  living  things,  long  before  the 
slow  moving  lava  had  reached  them  to  crush  and  burn  them  into 
nothingness.  The  heavens  were  filled  with  ashes  which  soon  smoth- 
ered all  life  including  the  humans  who  were  utterly  helpless  before 
the  whims  of  this  destructive  element. 

All  was  destruction:  Plants  and  people  were  destroyed;  homes, 
shops,  baths,  and  circuses  leveled;  soil  covered  with  a  conglomerate 
mass  of  hardness  which  would  take  the  elements  ages  to  pulverize 
into  soil  again.   All  was  death! 

Wonder  of  the  Nile  River 

Then  across  the  blue  Mediterranean  is  a  contrasting  picture  of 
the  builder  in  nature.  The  Nile  River,  one  of  the  greatest  wonders 
of  the  world,  changes  the  dead  and  barren  sands  of  the  desert  into 
a  fertile  land  with  trees  and  grass  and  animal  life.  The  heavy  April 
showers  in  the  basin  of  the  White  Nile  start  the  flood,  and  the  May 
rains  in  Abyssinia  swell  the  stream  with  its  rich  muddy  water  that 
fertilizes  as  it  irrigates,  and  this  sterile  sand  becomes  fertile  land  to 
bring  life  from  death.  The  mud  and  water  constitute  the  difference 
between  the  Sahara  Desert  and  the  green  gardens  and  fields  of 
Egypt.  Those  of  us  who  have  been  in  the  Gila  Valley  in  Arizona, 
which  is  one  of  the  most  notable  examples  of  soil  erosion  in  the  world 
perhaps,  will  know  about  what  has  been  done  in  the  valley  of  the 
Nile.  The  rich  sediment  is  laid  gently  on  the  land  so  that  it  might 
produce  crops.  The  productive  valley  is  a  gift  of  the  river  Nile.  It 
is  at  once'  a  garden  and  a  museum;  a  composite  of  the  ancient  and 
modern;  the  land  of  Abraham  and  Joseph  and  Moses  with  its  sphinxes 
and  catacombs  and  pyramids,  and  the  land  of  today  with  its  19,000,- 
000  people;  a  land  of  brilliant  sun.  deep  blue  sky,  and  vivid  colors, 
with  the  driest  air  in  the  world.  In  contrast  to  the  sand  under  the 
glare  of  the  sun  and  the  dull  color  of  the  river,  the  fields  and  palms 
appear  the  greenest  things  in  the  world.  The  sand  pours  over  the 
yellow  rocks  in  a  torrent  of  gold,  and  the  rocks  cast  purple  shadows. 
All  this  is  the  bounty  of  the  Nile,  which  nurtures  life  in  the  very  jaws 
of  the  death  of  the  hot  dry  desert  through  which  it  flows.    Its  annual 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  5  Second  Dag 

overflow  is  one  of  the  greatest  marvels  of  the  world.  It  has  risen  to 
within  a  few  hours  of  the  same  time  and  to  within  a  few  inches  of  the 
same  height  year  after  year  for  unknown  ages. 

Another  spring,  another  flood,  the  soaking  stream,  more  fertile 
mud  and  the  Nile  continues  to  give,  to  build  and  sustain,  while 
Vesuvius  burns  and  crushes  and  suffocates.  The  volcano  is  a  de- 
stroyer— the  river  a  builder. 

Men  May  Build  or  Destroy 

I  find  that  men  are  like  rivers  and  volcanoes.  They  construct, 
and  they  destroy;  they  purify  and  inspire,  and  they  defile  and  mysti- 
fy; they  give  life,  and  they  bring  about  death.  Recently  I  had  a  visit 
from  a  handsome  youth,  the  product  of  a  builder.  His  eyes  were 
bright;  his  step  was  light;  he  walked  with  calm  assurance.  Here  were 
courage,  optimism,  and  positiveness.  He  was  clean.  He  had  a  whole- 
some attitude  toward  life,  no  sourness,  no  bitterness.  He  looked 
life  straight  in  the  eye  and  met  its  challenges.  "All  my  life,"  he  told 
me,  "I  have  been  taught  that  'cleanliness  is  next  to  Godliness.' 
Through  all  the  priesthood  and  auxiliary  organizations  I  have  learned 
Paul's  statement:  '.  .  .  that  ye  are  the  temple  of  God,  and  that  the 
Spirit  of  God  dwelleth  in  you?' 

"  'If  any  man  defile  the  temple  of  God,  him  shall  God  destroy; 
for  the  temple  of  God  is  holy,  which  temple  ye  are.'  "  (I  Cor.  3:16- 
17.)  He  had  been  eager  to  fill  a  mission,  for  said  he:  "Since  my 
earliest  recollection,  I  have  earmarked  my  savings  for  my  mission; 
I  have  listened  intently  to  every  returning  missionary  and  anticipated 
with  eagerness  my  opportunity  to  go.  All  my  life  I  have  been 
taught  by  men  of  God  who  have  stirred  my  ambition,  stimulated  my 
thinking,  built  my  character,  and  increased  my  faith.  There  were 
always  markers  at  the  crossroads  which  I  could  recognize,  for  these 
valiant  people  had  prepared  me  to  identify  them.  Oh,  how  grateful 
I  am  that  such  builders  have  had  a  part  in  making  my  life!  They  have 
helped  to  lift  the  fogs,  dissipate  the  mists,  banish  the  doubts,  and 
fortify  me  against  the  temptations.  My  life  is  full — there  is  no  re- 
morse— I  have  no  fears — life  is  glorious  and  rich  in  promise." 

And  I  remembered  the  words  of  the  Lord  through  his  ancient 
prophet: 

How  beautiful  upon  the  mountains  are  the  feet  of  him  that  bringeth 
good  tidings,  that  publisheth  peace;  .  .  .  that  publisheth  salvation;  that 
saith  unto  Zion,  Thy  God  reigneth!    (Isaiah  52:7.) 

Victim  of  Human  Destroyers 

In  contrast,  I  had  a  visit  from  one  of  the  victims  of  the  human 
destroyers.  He  was  a  fair-haired  youth  of  twenty-two  years;  the 
last  four  of  those  years  had  been  filled  with  experiences  too  sordid 
and  too  horrible  for  a  lad  of  those  tender  years — experiences  which 
would  challenge  the  resistance  of  a  veteran.    His  manner  was  mild, 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  107 


his  approach  shy,  but  his  voice  registered  sincerity.  My  heart  im- 
mediately opened  and  took  him  in.  "Brother  Kimball,"  he  asked, 
"would  it  be  possible  for  me  to  go  on  a  mission?  I  think  it  would 
help  me  to  find  myself  again.  I  do  want  very  much  to  go  into  the 
mission  field." 

"You've  had  some  frustrating  experiences,  haven't  you?"  I 
asked.  And  he  poured  out  his  soul  in  a  series  of  heart-rending 
stories.  So  many  upon  the  head  of  a  youth — and  so  concentrated! 
Why,  he  had  hardly  recovered  from  one  until  another  blow  fell  upon 
him.  He  continued:  "I  hope  that  if  I  can  go  out  and  preach  the 
gospel,  I  might  be  able  to  get  my  thinking  straight,  to  be  really  hap- 
py again,  to  get  back  that  which  I  have  lost.  You  see,  Brother  Kim- 
ball, I  grew  up  in  the  Church  clean  and  with  never  a  doubt.  I  was 
active,  faithful,  believing.  My  trust  was  complete.  I  felt  secure  in 
my  faith,  never  questioning  seriously  the  truth.  It  was  as  though 
my  bark  of  life  were  in  a  safe  harbor,  securely  tied  with  heavy  cable 
to  docks  which  were  immovable.  My  parents  and  my  Church  leaders 
gave  me  anchor  to  hold  me  safe.  Oh,  if  I  could  only  have  again  that 
sweet  spirit  of  tranquility  and  peace  and  sureness!" 

Then  he  told  me  of  the  storms  that  had  engulfed  him.  He  had 
fought  a  war.  There  were  horrors  in  the  battles;  there  were  tempta- 
tions in  the  camps.  At  eighteen  he  had  been  surrounded  suddenly 
by  all  the  accumulated  sins  of  the  world.  The  pressure  was  crush- 
ing. For  two  years  he  had  been  hearing  vile  and  vulgar  speech  and 
the  name  of  God  desecrated  by  constant  use.  He  told  how  well-mean- 
ing entertainers  had  come  to  the  camps  but  had  sung  for  them  sexy 
songs,  told  them  ribald  jokes,  and  had  acted  to  satisfy  the  coarse, 
the  crude,  and  vulgar.  He  had  seen  motion  pictures  in  which  smoking 
was  universal,  drinking  was  approved  as  smart  and  proper,  im- 
morality was  condoned,  and  broken  homes  and  infidelity  in  marriage 
were  common;  he  had  spent  his  leisure  hours  in  cities  near  the  camps 
and  had  been  accosted  by  women  of  the  streets.  And  he  had  come  to 
wonder!  He  had  attended  a  class  in  his  ward  and  had  heard  a  dis- 
cussion on  the  mysteries.  Subjects  were  debated  on  which  there 
was  little  recorded  revelation  and  on  which  there  were  conflicting 
opinions,  and  he  had  heard  criticism  of  Church  leaders,  of  Church 
policies,  and  of  Church  doctrines,  and  he  wondered!  He  had  read  a 
book,  the  author  of  which  was  one  of  rich  endowments,  of  much 
learning,  and  of  considerable  prestige.  The  things  which  our  youth 
had  always  accepted  were  ridiculed.  Logic  was  used;  rationalizing 
was  done;  corrupt  writers  of  a  bygone  day  were  quoted;  the  super- 
natural was  explained  away;  the  revelations  were  said  to  be  man's 
wisdom;  prophets  were  demoted  to  the  status  of  laymen;  and  even 
Gods  were  dethroned  and  made  a  creation  of  man.  All  this  in  strict 
denial  and  total  destruction  of  the  basic  things  which  had  always 
been  his  life — and  he  continued  to  wonder.  He  had  gone  to  school 
when  the  war  was  over,  under  the  G.I.  Bill  of  Rights.  Here  he  had 
been  further  confused.    There  was  no  personal  God,  he  was  told, 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  5  Second  Day 

but  God  was  a  figment  of  the  imagination,  a  creation  of  intellectual 
man.  And  God,  being  a  creation  of  man  could  not  help  him,  but 
man  was  alone  to  work  out  his  own  destiny.  He  was  led  to  believe 
that  religion  was  for  only  the  simple  and  gullible.  He  found  that  in 
the  schools: 

Atheism  may  be  taught  our  children,  but  not  the  word  of  God,  not 
the  Bible,  not  the  Prophets,  not  the  Apostles.  Karl  Marx  is  legal  in  the 
schools,  but  not  Isaiah,  or  St.  Mark.  They  suffer  from  Bible  affiliation. 
(George  E.  Sokolsky,  Atheism  by  Law.) 

And  his  props  had  been  moved  from  under  him.  His  light- 
house was  destroyed:  his  anchor  broken  loose;  his  harbor  blasted. 
His  bark  was  at  sea  in  a  storm  without  anchor,  sail,  or  rudder;  and 
with  a  pilot  who  had  lost  his  compass  and  knew  not  his  way.  His 
heaven  was  clouded,  and  his  stars  were  hidden.  His  lights  were  all 
but  extinguished,  and  his  vision  dimmed.  And  he  said  again:  "Oh, 
if  I  could  only  get  back  what  I  have  lost  of  peace,  of  hope,  of  virtue, 
of  faith!  I  had  hoped  that  a  mission  might  dispel  the  fog  and  mists; 
prove  my  repentance;  build  back  my  faith  in  sacred  things  and  re- 
turn to  me  the  testimony  I  once  had  with  all  its  peace,  security,  and 
happiness.  I  had  hoped  I  might  repair  my  bark  and  get  it  in  full 
control  and  steer  it  again  into  calm  waters  and  safe  harbors." 

Redeemer's  View  of  Offenders 

And  as  I  felt  the  sincerity  of  this  young  man  struggling  for  a 
foothold,  for  a  foundation,  for  something  to  which  to  cling,  there 
came  these  words  of  the  Redeemer  into  my  memory: 

And  whosoever  shall  offend  one  of  these  little  ones  that  believe  in 
me,  it  is  better  for  him  that  a  millstone  were  hanged  about  his  neck,  and 
he  were  cast  into  the  sea.  (Mark  9:42.) 

And  the  words  of  the  Lord  came  again: 

But  woe  unto  you,  scribes  and  Pharisees,  hypocrites!  for  ye  shut 
up  the  kingdom  of  heaven  against  men:  for  ye  neither  go  in  yourselves, 
neither  suffer  ye  them  that  are  entering  to  go  in.  (Matt.  23:13.) 

Not  all  scribes  and  Pharisees  lived  anciently.  There  are  today 
wreckers  as  well  as  builders  among  men  and  in  nature.  In  the 
Church  library  there  are  more  than  1,700  books  and  pamphlets  of  a 
defamatory  character.  The  books  are  dead.  They  are  seldom  con- 
sulted. They  can  be  purchased  from  secondhand  bookstores  at  low 
cost.  The  authors  likewise  are  dead.  They  flickered  for  a  moment 
and  went  out,  dying  of  their  own  corruption,  after  having  polluted 
the  minds  of  a  few.  They  went  into  the  discard  while  the  cause 
they  fought  went  steadily  on.    Simon  Peter  warned  us: 

.  .  .  there  shall  be  false  teachers  among  you,  who  privily  shall  bring 
in  damnable  heresies,  even  denying  the  Lord  that  bought  them,  and  bring 
unto  themselves  swift  destruction.  (II  Peter  2:1.) 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  109 


The  Lord  said: 

Woe  unto  you,  lawyers!  for  ye  have  taken  away  the  key  of  knowl- 
edge: the  fulness  of  the  scriptures;  ye  enter  not  in  yourselves,  into  the 
kingdom  and  those  who  were  entering  in  ye  hindered.  (See  Luke  11:52; 
Revised. ) 

Teachers  to  be  Directed  by  the  Spirit 

Apparently  there  were  in  the  early  church  those  who  taught 
for  doctrines  the  sophistries  of  men.  There  are  those  today  who 
seem  to  take  pride  in  disagreeing  with  the  orthodox  teachings  of  the 
Church  and  who  present  their  own  opinions  which  are  at  variance 
with  the  revealed  truth.  Some  may  be  partially  innocent  in  the 
matter;  others  are  feeding  their  own  egotism;  and  some  seem  to  be 
deliberate.  Men  may  think  as  they  please,  but  they  have  no  right  to 
impose  upon  others  their  unorthodox  views.  Such  persons  should 
realize  that  their  own  souls  are  in  jeopardy.  The  Lord  said  to  us 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph : 

.  .  .  teach  the  principles  of  my  gospel,  which  are  in  the  Bible  and 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  in  the  which  is  the  fulness  of  the  gospel. 

And  they  shall  observe  the  covenants  and  church  articles  to  do  them, 
and  these  shall  be  their  teachings,  as  they  shall  be  directed  by  the  Spirit. 

.  .  .  And  if  ye  receive  not  the  Spirit  ye  shall  not  teach.  ...  (D.  & 
C.  42:12-14.  Italics  speaker's.) 

Objective  to  Build  Faith 

The  great  objective  of  all  our  work  is  to  build  character  and 
increase  faith  in  the  lives  of  those  whom  we  serve.  If  one  cannot 
accept  and  teach  the  program  of  the  Church  in  an  orthodox  way 
without  reservations,  he  should  not  teach.  It  would  be  the  part  of 
honor  to  resign  his  position.  Not  only  would  he  be  dishonest  and 
deceitful,  but  he  is  also  actually  under  comdemnation,  for  the  Savior 
said  that  it  were  better  that  a  millstone  were  hanged  about  his  neck 
and  he  be  cast  into  the  sea  than  that  he  should  lead  astray  doctrinally 
or  betray  the  cause  or  give  offense,  destroying  the  faith  of  one  of 
"these  little  ones"  who  believe  in  him.  And  remember  that  this 
means  not  only  the  small  children,  it  includes  even  adults  who  be- 
lieve and  trust  in  God. 

Man  is  like  the  volcano  which  in  a  few  weeks  can  devastate  the 
countryside,  wreck  cities,  and  smother  human  lives.  And  the  human 
destructionist  can  likewise  inject  into  other  human  lives  in  a  short 
time  the  doubt  and  skepticism  which  can  mean  total  loss  of  faith.  It 
may  take  centuries  for  the  other  forces  of  nature  to  pulverize  the 
lava  around  a  volcano  so  that  it  may  eventually  again  give  life  to 
plants  and  animals,  and  just  as  surely  the  damage  to  faith  of  an 
individual  done  by  an  iconoclast,  whether  deliberate  or  not,  may  take 
years  or  ages  of  rebuilding,  if  it  is  ever  fully  restored. 

The  Savior  also  said: 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  5  Second  Day 

And  fear  not  them  which  kill  the  body,  but  are  not  able  to  kill  the 
soul;  but  rather  fear  him  which  is  able  to  destroy  both  soul  and  body  in 
hell.  (Matt.  10:28.) 

In  our  own  society,  the  murderer  who  kills  the  body  is  hunted, 
imprisoned,  and  executed,  but  the  character  who  kills  the  soul  by 
implanting  doubt  and  shattering  faith  is  permitted  not  only  to  go 
free  but  also  is  often  retained  in  high  places.  The  body  which  is 
killed  will  rise  again  in  the  resurrection  with  little  damage  to  its 
eternal  welfare,  but  he  whose  faith  has  been  shattered  may  suffer 
long  ages  before  complete  restoration  of  spiritual  stature  can  be 
had,  if  at  all.   And  Jesus  said: 

Woe  unto  the  world  because  of  offences!  for  it  must  needs  be  that 
offences  come;  but  woe  to  that  man  by  whom  the  offence  cometh!  (Matt. 
18:7.) 

Far  better  to  take  from  a  man  his  flocks  or  herds,  his  lands  or 
wealth,  even  his  sight  or  limbs,  than  to  be  responsible  for  the  loss 
of  his  faith.   The  Son  of  God  put  it  this  way: 

Wherefore  if  thy  hand  or  thy  foot  offend  thee,  cut  them  off.  and 
cast  them  from  thee:  it  is  better  for  thee  to  enter  into  life  halt  and  maimed, 
rather  than  having  two  hands  or  two  feet  to  be  cast  into  everlasting 
fire. 

And  if  thine  eye  offend  thee,  pluck  it  out,  and  cast  it  from  thee:  it 
is  better  for  thee  to  enter  into  life  with  one  eye,  rather  than  having  two 
eyes  to  be  cast  into  hell  fire.    (Matt.  18:8-9.) 

And  so  we  admonish  the  leaders  in  stakes,  wards,  and  missions 
to  be  ever  vigilant  to  see  that  no  incorrect  doctrines  are  promulgated 
in  th,eir  classes  or  congregations.  Wolves  will  come  in  sheep's 
clothing  and  will  deceive  the  very  elect,  if  that  were  possible.  And 
we  warn  again  those  who  write  or  preach  or  otherwise  teach  sub- 
versive doctrines,  that  their  punishment  is  sure  for  their  "worm  dieth 
not." 

And  like  the  rich  man  who  despised  the  beggar  Lazarus,  they 
will  eventually  come  to  a  realization  of  the  statement  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ: 

And  beside  all  this,  between  us  and  you  there  is  a  great  gulf  fixed. 
(Luke  16:26.) 

The  Lord  bless  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters.  May  we  all,  like 
the  Nile  River,  build  and  nourish,  strengthen  and  fortify,  rather 
than  be  like  the  volcano  which  brings  only  death  and  desolation 
and  destruction,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus  will  sing:  "If 
Ye  Love  Me,  Keep  My  Commandments,"  by  Harker. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Fred  H.  Peck, 
Jr.  of  the  Pioneer  Stake,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  after  which  this  con- 
ference will  stand  adjourned  until  7:00  o'clock  this  evening,  when 
in  accordance  with  the  custom  of  the  Church,  the  general  meeting 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  1 1 1 


of  the  Priesthood  of  the  Church  will  be  held.  This  building,  judg- 
ing from  experiences  recently,  is  not  adequate  to  accommodate  the 
Priesthood,  and  so  we  cannot  invite  our  sisters.  It  is  not  fair  for 
a  few  to  come  unless  we  let  others  also.  This  meeting,  therefore, 
tonight  is  for  the  Priesthood  of  the  Church.  The  session  will  not 
be  broadcast. 

The  session  at  10:00  o'clock  tomorrow  morning  will  be  heard 
over  the  radio  stations  already  announced. 

The  choir  singing  for  this  day's  sessions  of  the  conference  has 
been  by  the  Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus,  Elder 
Franklin  Madsen  conducting,  and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the 
organ. 

May  we  add  to  what  has  already  been  said  a  word  of  apprecia- 
tion and  commendation  for  the  excellent  service  rendered  by  these 
students.  Truly  they  have  lifted  us  to  inspirational  heights,  and 
we  say  to  them,  to  their  leader,  and  to  all  associated  with  them: 
"God  bless  you." 

For  the  benefit  of  those  who  cannot  get  into  the  tabernacle, 
the  Assembly  Hall  will  be  open  tonight  as  it  has  been  throughout 
the  sessions  of  the  conference. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus  sang:  "If  Ye 
Love  Me  Keep  My  Commandments." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  President  Fred  H.  Peck, 
Jr.,  of  the  Pioneer  Stake. 

THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Tuesday  morning,  April  6,  at  10:00. 

The  Tabernacle  was  crowded  with  people,  and  there  was  an 
overflow  of  people  into  the  Assembly  Hall  on  the  Tabernacle 
grounds,  where  provision  was  made  for  those  who  gathered  there 
to  enjoy  the  services  as  they  were  broadcast  from  the  Tabernacle 
by  means  of  amplifiers  and  television  equipment. 

The  Ricks  College  Choir  furnished  the  music  for  this  session, 
with  Elder  John  M.  Anderson  conducting.  Alexander  Schreiner 
was  at  the  organ. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

I  think  you  are  a  courageous  lot  of  people  this  morning  to  come 
out  in  this  storm  and  fill  the  Tabernacle.  I  want  to  tell  you  that 
some  of  us  are  more  than  pleased  to  see  this  fine  chorus  from  Idaho 
that  has  come  to  sing  for  us,  here  in  their  seats  instead  of  trying 
to  get  in.  They  evidently  know  the  country  they  live  in,  and  so 
they  are  here  on  time. 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

This  is  the  sixth  session  of  the  118th  Annual  Conference  of 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

There  are  on  the  stand  this  morning  all  of  the  General  Authori- 
ties except  Elder  Stephen  L  Richards,  who  is  returning  from  a  tour  of 
the  South  American  Missions,  Elder  Matthew  Cowley,  who  is  pre- 
siding over  the  Pacific  Missions,  Elder  Thomas  E.  McKay,  who  is 
convalescing  from  a  minor  operation,  and  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  who 
is  in  Europe  in  charge  of  the  European  Mission. 

This  service  will  be  broadcast  over  station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the  following  sta- 
tions: KDSH  at  Boise,  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls, 
KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at  Vernal,  and  over 
KTYL  at  Mesa  by  transcription. 

The  choir  singing  during  today's  sessions  will  be  by  the  Ricks 
College  Choir,  with  Elder  John  M.  Anderson  conducting  and  Elder 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ.  Of  course,  you  all  know  where 
the  Ricks  College  Choir  comes  from. 

KSL  has  set  up  for  us  a  television  installation  which  will  en- 
able those  in  the  Assembly  Hall  to  see  as  well  as  hear  the  speakers 
and  the  choirs  that  sing  for  us.  The  television  pictures  will  not  be 
all  that  we  hope  they  will  become  some  day,  but  they  will  be  suf- 
ficiently good  to  be  a  great  help  to  those  who  are  seated  in  the 
Assembly  Hall. 

I  would  like  also  to  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  ordinarily  these 
grounds  are  beautiful  for  this  particular  conference,  and  they  have 
been  until  the  snow  covered  them.  Brother  Irvin  Nelson  who  has 
charge  of  the  grounds  takes  care  of  them  and  makes  this  place  a 
delightful  place  for  people  to  come  and  enjoy  the  Tabernacle 
grounds.  We  would  like  these  brethren  who  look  after  these 
grounds  to  know  that  we  appreciate  them. 

We  will  begin  the  morning  services  by  the  Choir  singing  "God 
So  Loved  the  World,"  from  "The  Crucifixion,"  by  Stainer. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  E.  Vaughn 
Abbott,  of  the  Reno. Stake,  Reno,  Nevada. 


The  Choir  sang:  "God  So  Loved  the  World." 

Elder  E.  Vaughn  Abbot,  President  of  the  Reno  Sta'  t,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

Singing  by  the  Choir,  "But  the  Lord  Is  Mindful  of  His  Own," 
from  "St.  Paul,"  by  Mendelssohn. 


Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  read  the  fol- 
lowing reports: 


ST  A  TISTICAL  REPORT  1 1 3 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS  SINCE  OCTOBER 
CONFERENCE  1947 

New  Missions  Organized: 

Central  Atlantic  States  Mission,  created  by  a  division  of  East 
Central  States  Mission. 

Japanese  Mission,  reopened  with  headquarters  in  Tokyo,  Japan. 

New  Mission  Presidents  have  been  appointed  as  [ollows: 

J.  Robert  Price,  president  of  the  Central  Atlantic  States  Mission. 

Edward  L.  Clissold,  president  of  the  Japanese  Mission. 

Joel  Richards,  president  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 
to  succeed  Samuel  E.  Bringhurst. 

Albert  Choules,  president  of  the  Southern  States  Mission  to 
succeed  Heber  Meeks. 

New  Stakes  Organized: 

The  South  Carolina  Stake  was  organized  October  19,  1947,  from 
the  South  Carolina  District  of  the  Southern  States  Mission. 

The  American  Falls  Stake  was  organized  February  1,  1948,  from 
the  Blackfoot  and  West  Pocatello  Stakes. 

Stake  Presidents  Chosen: 

Jesse  A.  Udall,  was  chosen  president  of  the  St.  Joseph  Stake, 
to  succeed  James  M.  Smith. 

Erastus  Francis  Winters,  president  of  the  Star  Valley  Stake,  to 
succeed  Royle  S.  Papworth. 

W.  Wallace  McBride,  president  of  the  South  Carolina  Stake. 

Reuel  E.  Christensen,  president  of  the  South  Sanpete  Stake,  to 
succeed  William  G.  Barton. 

Delbert  Leon  Stapley,  president  of  the  Phoenix  Stake,  to  succeed 
James  Robert  Price. 

Walter  A.  Hunzeker,  president  of  the  Montpelier  Stake,  to  suc- 
ceed Silas  L.  Wright. 

L.  Harold  Wright,  president  of  the  Maricopa  Stake,  to  succeed 
Lorenzo  H.  Wright. 

John  L.  Clarke,  president  of  the  Rexburg  Stake,  to  succeed 
Peter  J.  Ricks. 

George  R.  Woolley,  president  of  the  American  Falls  Stake. 

Frank  H.  Brown,  president  of  the  Big  Horn  Stake,  to  succeed 
Thomas  B.  Croft. 

William  A.  Strong,  president  of  the  Teton  Stake,  to  succeed 
Albert  Choules. 

New  Wards  Organized: 

Raymond  Third  Ward,  Taylor  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
the  Raymond  Second  Ward. 

Raymond  Fourth  Ward,  Taylor  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
the  Raymond  First  Ward. 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

Phoenix  Fifth  Ward,  Phoenix  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
the  Phoenix  Third  Ward. 

Charleston,  Columbia,  Gaffney,  Greenville,  Hartsville,  Ridge- 
way  and  Spartanburg  Wards,  South  Carolina  Stake,  formerly 
branches  of  the  Southern  States  Mission. 

Huntington  Second  Ward,  Emery  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
the  Huntington  First  Ward. 

Lomond  View  Ward,  Farr  West  Stake,  formed  by  a  division 
of  the  Ogden  Fifteenth  Ward. 

Egin  Bench  Ward,  Yellowstone  Stake,  formed  by  combining 
Egin  and  Heman  Wards. 

Lethbridge  Second  Ward,  Lethbridge  Stake,  formed  by  a  divi- 
sion of  the  Lethbridge  First  Ward. 

Shelley  Third  Ward,  Shelley  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
Shelley  Second  Ward. 

Springville  Seventh  Ward,  Kolob  Stake,  formed  by  a  division 
of  the  Springville  Sixth  Ward. 

Springville  Eighth  Ward,  Kolob  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
the  Springville  Second  Ward. 

Springville  Ninth  Ward,  Kolob  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
the  Springville  Third  Ward. 

Oak  Hills  Ward,  Sharon  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
Pleasant  View  Ward. 

Heyburn  Second  Ward,  Minidoka  Stake,  formed  by  a  division 
of  the  Heyburn  First  Ward. 

Wards  Discontinued: 

Woodruff  Ward,  Malad  Stake,  joined  with  the  Cherry  Creek 
Ward. 

Egin  and  Heman  Wards,  Yellowstone  Stake,  combined  to  make 
Egin  Bench  Ward. 

Farnum  Ward,  Yellowstone  Stake,  joined  with  the  Marysville 
Ward. 

Independent  Branches  Made  Wards: 

Parma  Ward,  Weiser  Stake,  formerly  Parma  Branch. 

Mountainville  Ward,  North  Sanpete  Stake,  formerly  Moun- 
tainville  Branch. 

Carmichael  Ward,  Sacramento  Stake,  formerly  Carmichael 
Branch.  • 

Independent  Branches  Organized: 

Augusta,  Darlington,  Society  Hill,  Sumter  and  Winnsboro 
Branches,  South  Carolina  Stake,  formerly  branches  in  the  Southern 
States  Mission. 

Campus  Branch,  East  Provo  Stake. 

Bonanza  Branch,  Uintah  Stake. 

Chain-O-Lakes  Branch,  Chicago  Stake,  formerly  part  of  North 
Shore  and  Logan  Square  Wards. 


STATISTICAL  REPORT  115 

Star  Branch,  Nampa  Stake,  formerly  a  dependent  Branch. 
Carbonville  Branch,  North  Carbon  Stake. 
Ophir  Branch,  Tooele  Stake. 

Yucaipa  Branch,  San  Bernardino  Stake,  formerly  part  of  Red- 
lands  Ward. 

Independent  Branch  Discontinued: 

Avondale  Branch,  Phoenix  Stake  disorganized,  members  trans- 
ferred to  the  Glendale  and  Capitol  Wards. 

Those  Who  Have  Passed  Away. 

Alvin  F.  Smith,  Church  Librarian,  January  4,  1948. 
Elias  A.  Smith,  December  6,  1947. 

STATISTICAL  REPORT 


Number  of  Stakes  of  Zion   1 70 

Number  of  Wards   1 ,293 

Number  of  Independent  Branches   132 

Total  Wards  and  Independent  Branches   1 ,425 

Number  of  Missions    42 

Church  Membership: 

Stakes    843,021 

Missions    173,149 

Total   1,016,170 

Church  Growth: 

Children  blessed  in  stakes  and  missions   36,458 

Children  baptized  in  stakes  and  missions   1 8,264 

Converts  baptized  in  stakes  and  missions    10,471 

Social  Statistics: 

Birth  rate  per  thousand   43.9 

Marriage  rate  per  thousand    19.2 

Death  rate  per  thousand   5.8 

Missionaries: 

Number  of  missionaries  in  the  missions  of  the  Church..  4,132 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  stakes   3,298 

Total  Missionaries   7,430 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  in  the 

mission  home  during  1947    2,134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  brethren  and  sisters:  Here  are  more  statistics.  I  hope  you 
get  more  pleasure  out  of  hearing  them  than  I  get  out  of  reading  them. 
There  is  one  situation,  however,  and  a  very  important  one,  that 
I  should  like  to  call  to  your  attention,  and  that  is  that  the  figures 
are  all  in  the  black.    There  are  none  in  the  red. 

Before  reading  the  annual  financial  statement,  we  may  note  a 
few  preliminary  matters,  some  by  way  of  repetition  of  what  has 
been  said  on  like  occasions  heretofore. 


At  Fishing  River,  Missouri,  June  22,  1834,  the  Lord  declared 
that  'the  commandments  which  he  had  given  concerning  Zion  and 
her  law  should  be  executed  and  fulfilled  after  Zion's  redemption.' 
(D.  &  C.  105:34.)  This  suspended  the  operation  of  the  United 
Order  in  Zion — i.e.,  Missouri.  The  Order  continued  for  a  time 
thereafter  in  Kirtland,  but  was  later  discontinued  there. 

In  the  years  immedately  following  there  was  no  organized 
plan  for  meeting  the  money  needs  of  the  Church,  and  the  financial 
situation  became  increasingly  serious. 


In  July  of  1838  (four  years  after  the  Fishing  River  revelation) 
the  Prophet  was  again  in  Missouri,  at  Far  West.  On  the  eighth 
of  the  month,  the  Prophet,  urged  by  the  serious  financial  needs  of  the 
Church,  went  to  the  Lord,  enquiring: 

O  Lord!    Show  unto  thy  servant  how  much  thou  requirest  of  the 
properties  of  thy  people  for  a  tithing.  (D.H.C.  3:44.) 

The  Lord  answered  with  two  revelations — the  first  giving  the 
law  of  tithing  (D.  &  C.  119),  and  the  other  fixing  the  order  of  its 
distribution.  (D.  &  C.  120.) 


Pursuant  to  these  revelations,  and  as  explained  at  recent  con- 
ferences, the  Church  has  a  Council  on  the.  Distribution  of  Tithes, 
made  up  of  the  First  Presidency,  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  the 
Presiding  Bishopric.  This  Council  considers  the  proposed  budget 
of  the  Church,  which  is  itemized  under  general  headings,  and  then 
approves  and  authorizes  such  expenditures  as  it  deems  proper. 

A  subcommittee  of  this  Council  on  the  Distribution  of  Tithes 
then  makes  the  detailed  appropriations  from  the  sums  approved 
and  authorized  by  the  Council.  This  subcommittee  is  known  as  the 
Committee  on  Expenditures,  and  is  made  up  of  the  First  Presidency, 
three  members  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  the  Presiding 


Revelation  at  Fishing  River 


The  Law  of  Tithing 


Council  on  the  Distribution  of  Tithes 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


117 


Bishopric.  A  Church  Building  Committee  acts  under  the  direction 
of  the  Committee  on  Expenditures.  The  Financial  Secretary  to  the 
First  Presidency  acts  as  the  secretary  of  the  Committee  on  Expen- 
ditures. 

The  budget  authorized  by  the  Council  on  the  Distribution  of 
Tithes  is  made  up  of  two  parts: 

1 .  The  regular  approved  authorizations  for  the  various  items  covered 
by  the  budget,  in  the  amounts  estimated  as  necessary  to  carry  on  the 
work  of  the  Church  for  each  item  of  expenditure;  and 

2.  A  contingent  reserve  out  of  which  can  be  met  any  unusual  ex- 
penditures not  provided  for  in  the  budget,  either  as  to  budget  items  or  as 
to  special  or  unforeseen  expenditures.  This  contingent  reserve  is  like- 
wise spent  under  the  authorization  of  the  Committee  on  Expenditures. 
In  1947  the  reserve  set  up  was  a  little  over  eight  percent  of  the  total 
budget  appropriations  from  the  general  funds  of  the  Church;  this  year 
(1948  budget)  this  reserve  equals  about  five  percent  of  the  itemized  budget. 
Last  year  the  reserve  was  more  than  ample  to  cover  the  supplementary 
appropriations.  It  is  believed  the  reserve  for  this  year  will  be  likewise 
sufficient. 

Aii  unexpended  appropriations  lapse  with  the  end  of  the  fiscal 
year  and  are  returned  to  and  are  absorbed  into  the  general  funds  of 
the  Church,  subject  to  appropriation  therefrom  as  are  other  like 
Church  funds. 

Expenditures  of  the  Church 

The  expenditures  of  the  Church  are  increasing  at  what  seems 
to  me  to  be  a  disquieting  rate.  For  the  ten  years  1936  to  1945,  both 
inclusive,  the  average  expenditure  from  our  general  Church  funds 
was  just  under  $5,000,000  annually.  As  we  reported  to  you  at  the 
last  April  conference,  the  expenditures  for  1946  equaled  $6,890,000 
from  general  Church  funds,  and,  including  all  other  cash  expendi- 
tures made  by  the  people  on  various  accounts,  the  expenditures 
amounted  in  total  to  $12,310,000.  As  we  shall  see,  expenditures  for 
1947  were  $11,263,000  out  of  general  Church  funds  (or  $4,373,000 
more  than  in  1946,)  while  the  total  cash  expenditures,  general  funds, 
plus  ( non-budget  funds  contributed  by  the  people,  were  $18,919,000 
(or  $6,609,000  more  than  1946).  The  total  cash  expenditures,  in- 
cluding budget  and  nonbudget  items  for  1948  are  put  at  over  $20,- 
000,000. 

I  may  observe  that  we  owe  no  money.  We  shall  not  have  to 
borrow  any  money  to  meet  our  budget.  But  in  my  own  view,  we 
must  all  watch  more  carefully  our  spending. 

As  individuals  our  standard  has  become,  not  our  need,  nor  our 
comfort  only,  but  our  luxury.  Many  of  us  are  not  yet  willing  to 
bring  ourselves  under  control  and  to  quit  spending  not  only  all  of 
our  savings,  but  also  all  we  are  making,  and  in  addition,  running 
in  debt  on  instalment  buying.  Our  young  people,  particularly  our 
boys  returned  from  the  service,  are  being  inveigled  into  running 
debts  that,  in  most  cases,  will  take  all  their  surplus  (if  they  have  any) 
for  the  next  ten  to  twenty  years,  and  under  circumstances  and  condi- 
tions that  will  cause  them  to  lose  everything  they  have  put  into 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


their  ventures,  if  there  should  come  to  them  any  incapacitating  ill- 
ness, or  accident,  or  if  death  came,  or  if  the  hard  times  should  come 
that  so  many  predict  and  that  some  fear  are  even  now  beginning. 


Unemployment  is  increasing,  and  if  it  continues  it  could  be- 
come serious.  In  that  event,  if  we  shall  follow  the  pattern  other 
countries  have  followed,  we  must  not  be  too  surprised  if  the  people, 
accustomed  over  the  last  few  years  to  a  certain  standard  of  living 
and  not  having  money  enough  to  buy  the  things  that  will  enable 
them  to  continue  that  standard  of  living,  raise  the  cry  that  there 
is  not  enough  money.  In  other  countries  when  this  cry  has  become 
sufficiently  insistent  and  from  sufficiently  large  numbers,  they  have 
started  the  printing  presses  going  to  print  money,  always  under  the 
delusion  that  the  presumed  restrictions  and  safeguards  which  are 
then  provided,  would  enable  the  stopping  of  the  money  flood  before 
it  becomes  dangerous.  But  again,  if  the  pattern  of  other  countries 
worked  out  here,  it  would  not  be  possible  to  stop  this  flood  of  paper 
money  once  it  was  well  started,  and  then  would  follow  the  inflation 
that  ruins  not  the  very  wealthy,  but  those  of  moderate  means  and 
those  with  means  that  are  less  than  moderate.  In  other  words,  the 
poor  people  are  the  ones  who  always  suffer  most  in  such  financial 
debacles.  Our  people  should  remember  the  lessons  of  history,  even 
very  recent  history,  and  do  all  they  can  to  avoid  this  catastrophe,  for 
such  it  has  always  proved  to  be  in  the  past. 


As  to  Church  spending,  for  my  own  part,  I  should  like  to  urge 
the  people  to  cease  building  cathedrals  for  ward  meetinghouses,  and 
to  stop  furnishing  them  as  if  they  were  palaces.  I  think  I  should  say 
to  you  that  the  First  Presidency  is  not  urging  the  building  of  these 
expensive,  luxurious  buildings;  indeed,  they  consider  that  often  the 
load  placed  upon  the  people  thereby  is  both  unfair  and  unwise;  they 
feel  we  could  well  be  much  more  moderate  in  many  of  our  expendi- 
tures. 

The  Lord  still  does  not  look  at  the  magnificence  of  our  meeting- 
houses, nor  at  the  luxury  of  the  pews,  nor  at  our  expensive  carpet- 
ing, nor  at  our  overstuffed  furniture  and  the  mahogany  chairs  of  the 
foyer  and  of  the  high  council  and  other  rooms.  The  Lord  still  looks 
at  the  humble  heart  and  the  contrite  spirit  of  his  children,  and  as  he 
said  when  he  walked  with  his  apostles  in  the  Holy  Land: 


It  is  not  the  place  in  which  we  meet,  but  the  spirit  in  which  we 
ather  together  that  concerns  the  Lord.  Not  pride  but  humility 
rings  him  into  our  midst. 


Danger  of  Inflation 


Moderation  in  Expenditures 


am 


.  .  .  where  two  or  three  are  gathered  together  in  my  name,  there 
I  in  the  midst  of  them.    (Matthew  18:20.) 


I  will  now  read  the  financial  statement: 


1947 


88 

_  ci  -*>' 

l<5  ts  M 

O  " 


co  H 

«Oh 

q3pq 
e"co 

M    «  .0 

•§  i 


and  Statistical  Report 


o 

Si  *tf 
r  5 


O  3  £  4> 

cd  d  m 

fl  g  S  o  u 

■  •S  u  o  £ 

"  J*  a-s  - 

2^  >  u3h 

*  n  «  "  a 

=5  -a  £ 

rs  «i  f  ™  4) 

CO  ■  •  ^ 


8 


.5  5 

3  a. 


Ms, 


o  o 
o  p 

cf  in 


8 


8 


113 

Is* 

CJ5  u  cfl 

.2  o  JS  >  ° 

^  s-5  a 

-d  o 

y  «ro  °  4) 


|  Is 
Id  u 


to 

P  „,  "71 


8 

o 


4"f3 

0  8  «  ■ 

™  u  a 

•15 


o 

aa 

o 
ci 


to  o 

<  %3 

P. 


SIS  as 


u  0 
"C  to 


-i   n  w 
-u*  'a  *J   4J  4) 

s  « is  s  a .«  « 


'^3  O 

_   tj  «*-»  w 

W  S  t)  m  o 

s  is  u  ^  n  *j 

d  h-d  b  d 


id 


.2  a  x  3 

B.a  w  S  « 

5  «  >^  R  t! 

6  ft  to. 
a  °<  a 


to 


fO  Q 


3  co 

d? 

41  4) 
4) 


4J 


d   ™  41  r; 

^.2  & 

«  d  d 

O   41   *J  > 

d  a  BP  S 


S  §  02 

«  2  S  e 
■a  b^.B  e,^ 

5  j  hi 
p  II 

S.SS  8^ 

rt  rt,  to  G  ^ 
to     *:  0  co 

"  a  J  «  « 
^111 


IMS 
pa  x  o 


eg 


i 

-  ftH 

c»«  »j .a 

J     0  a  S 

0 «  >  B  >. 
J-  ftJ3 

s  .Si  S  .2  K 
5  <0  u  S  > 
ft"3  as  ft  o 

b  n  O  w  u 

IJ  «  ft  ;  « 

■S  S  fe 
-co  S-g 


8 


S 


8 


3  w  u 


J-  ft"s 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

8            8              8  8  8  8  8 

On                   on                      «  co  f~.*  ci  in 

no                   vo                      oo  oo  ~h  oo  o 

t-~                      cn  CN  cn  co  tv. 


Si  ?5  vo 

s        *  5 


o 
o 

CN 

in 

ON 

cn 


8 

in 


8 

<N 


CN 


8 


cn 


8 


o 
o 

OO 


o 

p 


On 


o 
in 


8 
S 

ON 

5? 


8 


oo 
in 


8 

d 

CN 


co 

On" 


OO 
N." 
CM 


O 

ON 


00 


in 

8 


8 

d 

ON 

t>* 
NO 
CN 


8 


8 

d 
in 

On" 
i 

CO 
CN 


8 


-a 
0 
ro 


3 
03 

4J  >> 
w  i— I 

a  ^ 

<u  --•< 
rv  ro 

0  g 

ej  -rH 
J3  CJ 

3  s 

0 

Is 

*2  oj 


g'SiS  8 

ty-p  _  0 

e  ^  w  co 
.3  *  ^ 

ill's  I 

co  «  I  5  § 


Ih  <u  ^  « 

w  J3  «  do 


o  CO 


S  w  o  ..  0 


-g  oo  oj^j  a 
«  -  u2'p 

m  °  2  S  * 

-  y  E  s,  s 

^ — i  o:  co 
3  «  nj  w  nj 

K    "  <D 

cj  O  cj 
S*on  o:    J3  « 

r^NO    0    ..  M  CO 

*g  or^ 

*h 


soil* 


"n  3 
O  J3 


§1  a 


•  ~  5,- -  w  B 
• S *b 3 « ra 
3 


^oo  a 

o  a  s  * « 

AS  «  S  .3 
to  (J  S  M  o^-a 
o> «  o- 

0  8  .J  g  | 

CU    t/j  i— i  Eh 

w  cj  oj  y  w  Sr 
oj  .S  r  G  Ih  > 

Hut 

re  .  a  B 
«  »"§  0  3 1 


J2 


g.21 


cj  cj 

3  o  i; 


"2  03 

KallH'8! 
w  0  U 


*  ^  i 

.2 

h  5  o  „.  3 


^3  J3 


s-u'-S  &T3 


-3.3  o;g2; 

.2  §.a  §  S3 

*i       W  rt  <u 


CJ  tn  <u    I  V 

3,^3.2.3 
Bo  3'3  I 

CD  u  «JJ3  G 

lis. s.& 

§  m  I 

w  vt;  to  §  3 

O:      .in  cO 

~  si  ™s 

•o  8  S  ac 

=  o.  a  .s  p,  . 

3  S  d 

2  c.co  M  Qlr!  to 
S  SH  Si  £Jno  £ 
.2  e    §  Sts  & 

ft. 3- 

0:4=   •  o  y  y 

J  h  «  3  «  w  a 
=fccQUcQ.S£! 
pa 


cj  O 

b  a 
a  § 

a  «1 
I  83 

ll| 

o  k  tl 

M  Bib 

*  ^  o 

O  0  7. 
w  w  a 
S  c  § 

B  S  C 

o  ra  G 

u.  c 

3  S  <U 

D  Sr." 

gs§ 

&hOi  O! 

J  &  g£ 
u"32  y  o 

"S  b*§  ° 

O  5 .0  — 

wti-^  .2 
X 


PRESIDENT  }.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


121 


8 

CN 

g 


CN 


8 

cn 
f 


a 
U 

J>  S 

a  a; 

J  3 


3  "O 

to  o  ■ 
o. 

O  S=£ 


ll| 

CO  ^-t 

■9  3  S 

3  «  a 

5  J* 


o 

T— I 

CO 


8  8 


od 

CO 


1 

i  no 

OO 

264: 

3  i 

°<  I 

to 

a  S 
to  ^ 

•2  8 

13  O 
to  'w 
0*  .3 

8  B 

°  -a 

dj  S3 

ft 

-C 

U 


o 
o 


o 
o 
a? 

CN 

ci" 
en 


5*i  Kg  cu 

«n  ill 

a  b  B  S  5 

U  I»3  CO  4> 

'5  S''13  <u  S 

0  T3  B  ■£! 

"to  —  S  =3 

8  aK 

«  3  ra  S  a*  o 


js  _ 

x  tj  3 


<u  -  ra  to  «  u 
JE;  B  3  o.  u  «  ^3 

B  r-n  G 

a 
to 


21  c  03  o  h 


-  g-3  *.£~- 
_  to  S  •=  S  s  . 
a  9       Si*  3 

I  £  £  a  1  8  a 

Si  3  u  "B  h  £ 

g  IL,  MB  u  &,B 

o 


c  s 


o  o 


-as  2 

?  ^  cn  -52  O 
3  3  U  1)  - 


-a 
a 


4J 


-a 


5  w  03  S     a  o 


CD 

> 


CD 


CD  o 


°  «  «    -t3 -a 


-a  s  o'q"13 
tn  w  fix 


«j  cd^,  hay 


-ax  UJ.ti 


O 

,   «  u 

4)  03  g  03 
!i  S3,  u  r<  Q 


O 
U 
4J 


a 


13 

a 


0)   W  CO 

18  ff  4>  «  ™ 

Si 
o  . 

u  2  « 

!*  Q.'5, 


-H-a 
a 

CD 

3 . 


4J 


-d 
a 

18 
4J 

4J 


a3 


(0  13 

*  £  a  ? 

03 

a 


8  4JJ3 
3  O 


CO 


a  to 
2  S 


os 


c2 

o  ~ 


S  «  2 


O 

1)43 


cn 
cj 
cj 

a 

to 

«  ci) 


O 


O  O 

2  w 
a 
o 


?  to  cis  I>  UW 


8  8 


8 

o 
m 


8 

0O 
CN 


»  a 

O 

9 


•3^ 
If  to 


CJ  0 

5  u 


to 


y  e  sj. 


>J3 


J3  to  c 


3  .. 

in  CO 


S  °2 

S  ccB 
«  13  55 
°"B  S 

S  §  g 
O 


Si  o 
og 
*■  Si-c 

W  B 

a  "  «j 

fU  >,<J 

o  to 

k33 
1 1 1 

&  «  a 

a  to  0 
S,  D-ti 
k  to  S 

0U4  to 


3 

"to 
a 

'5 


^o  5, 


o 
o 


00 


8 


ci 

CN 


8 
if? 


8     8  8 


cn 

JS 


W 


3 

0 
H 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday.  April  6  Third  Day 

Part  II— NON-BUDGET  AND  NON-TITHING  EXPENDITURES  FROM 
CONTRIBUTIONS  BY  MEMBERS  OF  THE  CHURCH  FOR  THE  YEAR 
1947 

The  expenditures  budgeted  from  general  Church  funds  and  paid  principally 
from  the  tithes  are  detailed  here.  The  following  expenditures  were  made  from 
further  contributions  by  members  of  the  Church: 

Paid  for  stake  and  ward  building  purposes    $  1,484,341.00 

Expended  for  stake,  ward,  and  mission  maintenance  purposes; 

expenses  of  auxiliary  organizations  and  for  recreation    2,691,596.00 

Expended  from  ward  and  mission  fast  offerings    1,084,908.00 

Expended  from  welfare  contributions    881,973.00 

Assistance  rendered  missionaries   200,507.00 

Expended  from  general  board  dues;  children's  contributions  to 

the  Primary  Hospital,  and  donations  to  temples    254,474.00 

Expended  by  Church  schools,  in  addition  to  amount  listed  under 
budget  expenditures,  from  funds  derived  from  tuitions  and 

other  sources    1,018,000.00 

Total  non-budget  cash  expenditures,  1947,  from  contributions, 

other  than  tithing,  donated  by  the  Church  membership   7,615,799.00 

Expended  by  the  hospitals  for  the  care  of  the  sick,  in  addi- 
tion to  the  amount  paid  from  the  tithes  and  included  in  part  I ....  40,358.00 
Total  budget  cash  expenditures  by  general  Church  offices,  brought 

forward    11,263,344.00 

Total  cash  expenditures,  budget  and  non-budget,  of  the  Church 

for  the  year  1947    $18,919,501.00 

Part  III— THE  CHURCH  WELFARE  PROGRAM 
Fast  Offering  Data 

Number  of  Church  members  who  paid  voluntary  fast  offerings 
and  welfare  contributions: 

In  the  wards    176,808 

In  the  missions    44,499 

Total    221,307 

Amount  of  voluntary  fast  offerings  and  welfare  contributions: 
In  the  wards: 

Fast  Offerings    $  916,515.00 

Welfare  contributions   934,825.00 

In  the  missions: 

Fast  offerings    88,648.00 

Total  fast  offerings  and  welfare  contributions    $  1,939,988.00 

Percent  of  Church  members  who  paid  fast  offerings  

Average  fast  offerings  per  capita  in  wards   

Average  fast  offerings  per  capita  in  missions  (based  on  the 

number  of  missions  reporting)   .521 

Average  fast  offerings  per  capita,  wards  and  missions    1.10 

Average  fast  offerings  and  welfare  contributions  in  wards    2.50 

Welfare  Program  Cash  Expenditures 

Expended  from  ward  and  mission  fast  offerings  and  welfare  con- 
tributions for  the  care  of  the  needy  consisting  of  food,  clothing, 
rents,  light,  heat,  hospitalization,  burials,  etc.,  and  for  the  pur- 
chase of  commodities  for  storehouses   $  1,966.881.00 

Disbursed  by  the  general  welfare  committee  for  the  operating 
costs  of  storehouses;  for  the  overhead  expenses  of  the  general 
committee;  and  for  the  shipment  of  relief  supplies  to  Europe....  493,386.00 
Disbursed  by  the  corporations  of  the  President  and  Presiding 
Bishop  for  direct  assistance  and  for  contributions  to  civic, 

denominational,  and  educational  institutions    428,187.00 

Expended  by  the  hospitals  for  the  care  of  the  sick   40,358.00 

Total  relief  cash  expenditures  for  the  year  1947  all  included 
in  above  grand  total  of  budget  and  non-budget  cash 
expenditures    $  2,928,812.00 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


123 


This  is  an  increase  over  the  year  1946  of   $  1,103,172.00 

In  addition  to  the  cash  expenditures  of  $2,928,812.00  for  welfare 
purposes,  the  general  Church  welfare  committee  makes  the 
following  further  financial  report,  with  a  statement  indicating 
the  production  and  distribution  of  commodities  for  bishops' 
storehouses  and  inventories  of  commodities  December  31, 
1947. 

Summary  of  the  Annual  Report  of  the  Church  Welfare  Plan, 

December  31,  1947 

FINANCIAL  REPORT 

Present  Net  Cash  Value: 

Current  Assets  (principally  cash  and  notes  and  accounts  re- 
ceivable)  $  1,612,861.79 

Inventories  (principally  commodities)    961,877.43 

Fixed  Assets  (land,  buildings,  etc.)    3,563,508.03 

Total  Assets   $  6,138,247.25 

Fixed  Assets  Include: 

Deseret  Industries,  Deseret  Mills  and  Elevator,  Deseret  Cloth- 
ing Factory,.  Deseret  Coal  Mine. 
One  hundred  and  ten  bishops'  storehouses  having  a  total  floor 
area  of  458,713  square  feet.   This  is  12  times  the  area  cov- 
ered by  the  Tabernacle;  and  a  little  more  than  the  area  of 
the  Temple  Block.    There  are  56  canneries  included  in  the 
110  bishops'  storehouses. 
Farms,  ranches,  dairies,  and  other  regional  and  stake  properties, 
made  up  of  17,278  acres  of  land,  together  with  buildings, 
improvements,  equipment,  and  livestock. 
The  Fixed  Assets  were  acquired  with  funds  secured  from  the 
following  sources: 
Cash  from  general  Church  funds,  through  the  general  com- 
mittee  $  1,407,364.03 

Cash  from  wards,  stakes,  regions,  and  priesthood  quorums   1,707,363.00 

Donations,  labor  and  property    448,781.00 

Total    $  3,563,508.03 

The  fixed  assets  consist  of: 

Land  and  landscaping   $  1,492,564.74 

Buildings,  furniture,  and  fixtures    1,421,100.88 

Equipment  and  trucks    543,669.41 

Livestock   106,173.00 

Total   $  3,563,508.03 

Materials  Canned  and/or  Processed  in  Program's  Own  Plants  in  1947 

Vegetables,  fruits,  jams,  and  spreads    1,132,557  quarts      (1,527,170  cans) 

Meat,  fish,  and  fowl   16,037  pounds     (     20,772  cans) 

Milk,  canned  (each  can  equivalent  to  one 

quart  fresh  milk)    653,472  cans 

Milk,  bottled   133,259  quarts 

Miscellaneous  foods,  drugs,  and  household 

items    918,054  pounds 

Flour,  cereals,  and  livestock  feeds    2,004,820  pounds 

Total  Production,  Distribution,  and  Inventory  of  Commodities  for  Bishops'  Store- 
houses, 1947 

1947Pro-         1947  Dis-  Inventory 
Items  dnction  ttibution  12/31/47 

Canned  produce   (milk,  vegetables, 

fruits,  jams,  and  spreads)    quarts      1,939,868  792,169  1,330,092 

Animal  products  (butter,  eggs,  and 

meat)   pounds       666,532  641,933  76,517 

Vegetables,  fruits,  and  preservatives 

(not  canned)    pounds     2,556,295  1,604,206  731,171 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

Grains  and  grain  products   pounds     4,601,439     1,347,824  5,002,259 

Other  foods    pounds         27,908         98,483  66,415 

Various  drugs  and  household  sup- 
plies and  soaps    items  98,157       211,000  159,145 

Cotton,  hay  and  miscellaneous  items    pounds      1,143,281    Used  to  pro-  50,561 

duce  other 
budget  items 

Fuel  (mostly  coal)    tons  9,370  5,283  4,426 

Clothing  and  dry  goods    articles        157,768        153,766  299,473 

Furniture    articles  220  541  238 

In  addition  to  the  distribution  reported  above,  there  were  sent  from  store- 
house stock  to  Saints  in  foreign  missions  545,504  quarts  canned  produce,  184,072 
pounds  of  meat  and  lard,  650,817  pounds  of  grain  products  and  44,391  bars  of 
soap  and  miscellaneous  items. 
Group  Canning 

The  following  canning  was  done  at  welfare  canneries  for  their  own  use  by 
632  groups,  consisting  of  12,345  people: 

Fruits  and  vegetables    715,785  quarts    (942,233  cans) 

Meat  and  fish    27,620 pounds    (  22,709  cans) 


964,942  cans 


Field  Activities: 

Field  activities  carried  on  in  the  production  of  the  1947  welfare  budget  in- 
clude 818  crop  projects,  cultivating  4,758  acres  of  land;  227  livestock  projects, 
which  produced  1,736  head  of  livestock,  5,511  chickens,  282  rabbits,  and  24 
stands  of  bees. 

Eighty-two  thousand  five  hundred  twenty-five  man  days  of  work  were  do- 
nated on  these  projects,  and  11,552  man  days  of  work  were  donated  in  operating 
storehouses  and  processing  plants. 

For  purposes  other  than  the  production  of  the  budget  for  the  bishops'  store- 
house program,  there  were  140  crop  projects,  49  livestock  projects,  and  55  manu- 
facturing projects  operated  during  1947.  These  agricultural  projects  utilized  978 
acres  of  land  and  produced  128  head  of  livestock. 

Assistance  Rendered: 

There  have  been  from  17,913  to  55,460  persons  assisted  through  the  bishops' 
storehouse  program  each  year  since  1938.  In  1947,  there  were  24,458  persons  so 
assisted  in  the  United  States.  We  also  sent  to  Europe  enough  food  and  clothing 
to  help  a  larger  number,  or  over  50,000  persons  all  told  in  1947. 

During  this  period  and  outside  of  Europe  more  than  1,178  families  have  been 
helped  to  become  self-supporting;  9,626  persons  have  been  assisted  in  other 
ways;  and  1,744  construction  projects  have  been  completed  in  addition  to  the  con- 
struction for  the  bishops'  storehouse  program. 

Welfare  Meetings  Being  Held: 

Of  the  163  stakes  reporting,  146  hold  stake  welfare  committee  meetings 
monthly  or  oftener,  and  17  hold  them  less  frequently.  Of  the  1,139  wards  re- 
porting, 247  hold  weekly  ward  welfare  committee  meetings;  803  hold  them  less 
frequently;  and  89  are  not  holding  any  meetings. 

Persons  Relinquishing  Government  Relief: 

During  the  past  five  years  2,198  persons  have  relinquished  their  position  on 
government  relief  rolls;  of  this  number  948  have  been  rehabilitated  and  are  re- 
ceiving no  aid  from  the  Church,  nor  so  far  as  known  from  any  other  gratuitous 
source,  810  are  yet  receiving  part  of  their  support  from  the  Church;  and  440  are 
receiving  all  their  needs  from  the  Church. 

Relief  Supplies  Sent  to  Foreign  Missions: 

Relief  supplies  sent  to  European  and  Pacific  missions  through  the  welfare- 
program,  as  of  March  15,  1948.  (Shipments  commenced  October  29,  1945.) 
Eleven  pound  parcel  post  packages: 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


125 


To  European  missions 


8,319   parcels  of  clothing 
6,726    parcels  of  bedding 
31    parcels  of  food 


To  Pacific  missions 


556  parcels  of  clothing 
386   parcels  of  food 


Total 


16,018 


A  total  of  16,018  parcels  which  together  with  1,059  quilts  and  blankets  shipped 
by  the  United  States  missions  to  Holland  and  Germany  and  5,747  pounds  of  food 
shipped  to  the  Tahitian  mission,  is  the  equivalent  of  seven  freight  carloads, 
valued  at  $88,730.00. 

In  addition  to  the  foregoing,  shipped  by  parcel  post,  we  sent  to  Europe  in 
bulk  shipments: 


The  value  of  these  88  cars  was  $846,964.00. 

This  makes  a  total  of  95  freight  carloads,  valued  at  $935,694.00  shipped  at 
a  cost  for  cartons,  transportation,  insurance,  and  handling,  and  purchase  of 
some  items  not  available  from  storehouses,  of  $345,319.47.  A  total  of  $1,281,- 
013.47. 

The  materials  sent  to  foreign  missions  went  to  the  Church  members  in 
Austria,  Belgium,  Great  Britain,  Czechoslovakia,  Denmark,  Finland,  France, 
Germany,  Netherlands,  Norway,  Japan,  China,  and  Tahiti. 

In  addition  to  the  above,  the  General  Church  Welfare  Committee  shipped 
6,323  pounds  of  clothing  to  the  Indians  in  the  Navajo-Zuni  Mission. 

As  President  Smith  told  you  yesterday,  we  have  now  shipped 
as  of  this  date  one  hundred  carloads  of  food  and  clothing  to  Europe. 
Their  needs  are  still  great,  but  there  are  some  observers  returning 
from  Europe  who  say  that  they  are  eighty  percent  of  their  normal 
production.  It  may  be  that  notwithstanding  the  individual  cases 
that  we  hear  of,  of  great  hardship,  yet  they  over  there  may  have 
acquired  some  of  our  habits  and  are  glad  to  take  all  they  can  get. 
Please  do  not  misunderstand  me.  The  suffering  is  great,  and  we 
must  not  discontinue  our  efforts.  But  it  is  a  relief  to  know  that 
possibly  the  whole  situation  is  not  so  bad  as  we  might  expect. 


Now  I  would  like  to  read  to  you  a  little  scripture  to  conclude 
with.   In  November  of  1831  the  Lord  said: 

"Again,  inasmuch  as  parents  have  children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized,  that  teach  them  not  to  understand  the  doc- 
trine of  repentance,  faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  and  of 
baptism  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands, 
when  eight  years  old,  the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents."  (D.  &  C. 
68:25.) 

Furthermore  in  the  same  revelation: 

"Now,  I  the  Lord,  am  not  well  pleased  with  the  inhabitants  of 
Zion,  for  there  are  idlers  among  them;  and  their  children  are  also  grow- 
ing up  in  wickedness;  they  also  seek  not  earnestly  the  riches  of  eternity, 
but  their  eyes  are  full  of  greediness."    (Ibid..  68:31.) 


33  cars  of  clothing 
55   cars  of  food 


A  total  of 


88 


Lord's  Admonition  to  Parents 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

The  First  Presidency  of  the  Church  was  organized  March  18, 
1833.  On  May  6  the  Lord  gave  a  revelation  regarding  the  condi- 
tions with  reference  to  the  children,  and  he  began  with  the  First 
Presidency,  and  I  will  read  what  he  said: 

"But  verily  I  say  unto  you  my  servant  Frederick  G.  Williams,  you 
have  continued  under  this  condemnation; 

"You  have  not  taught  your  children  light  and  truth,  according  to  the 
commandments;  and  that  wicked  one  hath  power,  as  yet,  over  you,  and 
this  is  the  cause  of  your  affliction. 

"And  now  a  commandment  I  give  unto  you — if  you  will  be  delivered 
you  shall  set  in  order  your  own  house,  for  there  are  many  things  that 
are  not  right  in  your  house. 

"Verily,  I  say  unto  my  servant  Sidney  Rigdon,  that  in  some  things 
he  hath  not  kept  the  commandments  concerning  his  children;  therefore, 
first  set  in  order  thy  house." 

And  then  to  the  Prophet  he  says: 

"Verily,  I  say  unto  my  servant  Joseph,  Jun.,  or  in  other  words,  I 
will  call  you  friends,  for  you  are  my  friends,  and  ye  shall  have  an  in- 
heritance with  me — 

"I  called  you  servants  for  the  world's  sake,  and  ye  are  their  ser- 
vants for  my  sake — ■ 

"And  now,  verily  I  say  unto  Joseph  Smith,  Jun. — You  have  not 
kept  the  commandments,  and  must  needs  stand  rebuked  before  the  Lord; 

"Your  family  must  needs  repent  and  forsake  some  things,  and  give 
more  earnest  heed  unto  your  sayings,  or  be  removed  out  of  their  place. 

"What  I  say  unto  one  I  say:  unto  all;  pray  always  lest  that  wicked 
one  have  power  in  you  and  remove  you  out  of  your  place." 

And  then  he  goes  to  the  bishop: 

"My  servant  Newel  K.  Whitney  also,  a  bishop  of  my  church,  hath 
need  to  be  chastened,  and  set  in  order  his  family,  and  see  that  they  are 
more  diligent  and  concerned  at  home,  and  pray  always,  or  they  shall  be 
removed  out  of  their  place."    (Ibid.,  93:41-50.) 

Present  Need  for  Parental  Guidance 

As  has  already  been  said  in  this  conference,  these  principles  are 
as  applicable  today  as  they  were  at  the  time  when  the  Lord  gave 
them.  Some  of  us  sometimes  think  that  these  messages  addressed 
to  particular  persons  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  during  the 
early  days,  are  not  applicable  to  us.  I  have  always  felt  and  believed 
that  out  of  every  personal  revelation  given  in  those  early  days,  and 
given  today,  there  is  a  lesson  to  the  whole  Church. 

You  parents  need  to  instruct  your  children,  to  admonish  them, 
and  then  yourselves  so  to  live  that  they  may  emulate  your  example. 
I  do  not  know  whether  you  have  thought  of  this  fact,  and  fact  I  think 
it  is:  we  have  become  so  fearful  about  our  children  that  discipline 
has  too  largely  disappeared.  The  youth  of  today  are  very  largely 
by  their  insistent  requests,  sometimes  demands,  directing  the  course 
of  action  of  the  whole  world.  We  are  so  keen  and  anxious,  as  we 
should  be,  to  keep  them  near  us  so  that  they  will  live  properly  that 
we  are  almost  giving  them  everything  they  ask  without  any  thought 
as  to  whether  it  is  wise  or  unwise. 


AUDITORS  REPORT 


127 


I  appeal  to  you  parents,  take  nothing  for  granted  about  your 
children.  The  great  bulk  of  them,  of  course,  are  good  but  some 
of  us  do  not  know  when  they  begin  to  go  away  from  the  path  of  truth 
and  righteousness.  Be  watchful  every  day  and  hour.  Never  re- 
lax your  care,  your  solicitude.  Rule  kindly  in  the  spirit  of  the  gospel 
and  the  spirit  of  the  priesthood,  but  rule,  if  you  wish  your  children 
to  follow  the  right  path.  Now  I  am  not  talking  about  cruelty;  I  am 
not  talking  about  whippings.  Those  are  the  recourses  and  the  last 
recourses,  of  the  unrighteous  man.  I  am  talking  to  you  about  lov- 
ing them,  bringing  them  to  you,  but  always  giving  them  counsel. 

May  God  always  be  with  us  and  help  us  to  do  his  service  and 
increase  our  testimonies;  bring  to  us  a  testimony  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  the  instrument  through  whom  God  restored  the  gospel  and  the 
priesthood.  If  that  were  not  true,  we  would  have  nothing.  It  is 
true,  and  you  should  so  teach  the  youth.  Do  not  be  fearful  to  tell 
the  facts  about  your  religion.  Teach  Jesus  the  Christ,  the  Son  of 
God;  teach  Joseph  the  Prophet;  teach  God  as  a  being  who  loves  his 
children;  and  by  your  own  lives  and  examples  see  that  your  children 
know  that  that  is  what  you  believe.  And  you  teachers,  see  that 
your  students  know  that  is  what  you  believe. 

God  bless  us,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  of  the  First  Presidency  has 
just  read  the  financial  statement  and  a  summary  of  the  Church's 
Welfare  activity,  and  also  given  us  some  advice  and  counsel  and 
has  borne  his  testimony  to  us.  I  trust  we  can  retain  as  far  as  pos- 
sible the  things  we  have  heard. 

We  will  now  have  a  report  from  Elder  Orval  W.  Adams,  which 
is  the  report  of  the  Church  Auditing  Committee. 


REPORT  OF  CHURCH  AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
March  30,  1948 

President  George  Albert  Smith  and  Counselors 
Dear  Brethren: 

Your  Committee  has  reviewed  the  Annual  Financial  Report  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  for  the  year  ending 
December  31,  1947.  Meticulous  care  has  been  taken  from  year  to 
year  in  the  preparation  of  a  comprehensive  budget  system,  providing 
control  to  safeguard  the  expenditure  of  the  funds  of  the  Church, 
which  funds  are  being  conserved  with  great  care  and  expended  only 
after  thoughtful  and  careful  consideration.     The  review  of  the 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

records  discloses  the  Church  to  be  in  strong  financial  condition  and 
free  from  debt. 

Respectfully  submitted 
Orval  W.  Adams 
Albert  E.  Bowen 
George  S.  Spencer 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Church  Auditing  Committee 

The  Ricks  College  Choir  joined  with  the  congregation  in 
singing  the  hymn,  "O  Ye  Mountains  High,"  (Hymn  Book,  page  378; 
L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  338.) 

ELDER  THOMAS  D.  REES 

Former  President  of  the  Australian  Mission 

A  few  months  ago  Sister  Rees  and  I  bade  goodbye  to  our  fine 
saints  in  far-away  sunny  Australia.  It  was  a  sad  day  for  us  to 
leave  that  wonderful  country  and  our  fine  people.  The  Australian 
people  are  a  fine,  progressive  people,  dynamic  in  their  ways.  Just 
before  our  leaving,  out  of  the  clouds  that  bank  along  the  coast  came 
a  clipper  from  over  the  Pacific  Sea  and  as  it  landed  there  stepped 
from  it  Elder  Matthew  Cowley  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve.  With 
him  was  President  Charles  B.  Richmond  and  Sister  Richmond.  To 
the  Australian  Saints  and  to  the  mission  the  coming  of  Elder  Cowley 
is  a  great  event  in  the  life  and  the  history  of  that  mission.  They  had 
known  that  he  had  been  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Pacific  Mis- 
sions and  that  Australia,  that  great  island  continent  was  a  part  of 
his  mission. 

Visits  from  the  First  Presidency  or  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve 
had  been  far  between.  Ten  years  ago  President  George  Albert 
Smith  and  the  late  Rufus  K.  Hardy  came  into  that  mission.  The 
people  were  thrilled  to  meet  one  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve,  and 
now  they  are  thrilled  to  say,  "We  know  the  president  of  our  great 
Church,"  and  they  rejoice  and  are  happy  to  say  that  they  have 
met  him  and  spoken  to  him  and  heard  him  bless  them.  This,  too, 
was  a  wonderful  event.  Eighteen  years  previous  to  that  time 
Elder  David  O.  McKay  and  Brother  Hugh  J.  Cannon  came  to  that 
great  mission  to  visit,  to  see  and  meet  those  people,  and  it  is  one  of 
the  events  that  they  still  love  to  speak  about.  When  you  speak  of 
that  event  to  those  who  met  them  their  eyes  sparkle  and  their  faces 
light  up,  and  they  say,  "I  have  seen  a  servant  of  God  and  heard  him 
speak."  It  is  a  wonderful  thing  now  that  they  have  President  Cowley 
to  visit  them  often.  They  feel  that  they  are  closer  to  the  head 
here  in  Zion  and  they  are  happy.  I  want  to  say  too,  that  the  mis- 
sionaries in  those  far-flung  islands  are  happy,  and  the  mission  presi- 
dents that  are  so  far  away  from  each  other  will  be  glad  to  see  him 
and  to  have  his  counsel  about  things  pertaining  to  their  great  mis- 
sions.   When  Elder  Cowley  met  with  the  saints  they  gave  him 


ELDER  THOMAS  D.  REES 


129 


receptions,  they  came  to  the  conferences,  they  were  thrilled  and 
happy.    He  could  not  linger  long  in  one  place. 

He  soon  was  again  in  the  air  toward  the  north  of  Australia,  to 
the  great  State  of  Queensland  where  we  have  a  few  branches  of 
our  saints.  Queensland  is  over  sixteen  hundred  miles  long  and  a 
thousand  miles  wide  and  in  it  we  have  only  two  or  three  and  some- 
times six  elders.  Along  the  coast  of  the  Pacific  from  the  capitol  of 
Brisbane  to  the  far  north  there  are  many  beautiful  cities,  some  as 
large  as  Logan  or  Idaho  Falls,  where  we  have  never  yet  had  our 
elders.  The  people  of  Australia  treat  our  elders  with  respect  and 
kindness  wherever  they  go. 

Then  Elder  Cowley  again  left  headquarters  to  visit  West 
Australia  and  by  airplane  he  traveled  twenty-seven  hundred  miles 
to  that  section  where  we  have  a  little  branch  of  saints.  It  is  just 
about  as  far  from  headquarters  to  that  branch  as  it  is  from  our 
headquarters  here  to  Hawaii.  There  are  something  over  a  half  a 
million  people  on  the  west  coast  of  Australia  that  seem  quite  isolated 
from  the  eastern  coast,  separated  by  a  vast  country.  These  people 
are  all  of  English  extraction  and  sometimes  I  think  they  are  more 
English  than  England  because  they  have  not  been  on  the  highways 
of  the  world,  nor  the  tourists  have  not  visited  them.  We  have  a 
branch  there,  a  fine  little  chapel.  That  is  a  great  country,  a  fine  peo- 
ple. I  hope  that  in  some  future  day  we  will  have  a  mission  there. 
They  are  entitled  to  it. 

Seventeen  hundred  miles  along  the  southern  coast  is  the  City 
of  Adelaide,  the  closest  of  any  note,  to  the  west.  The  City  of  Ade- 
laide also  has  in  it  and  around  it  over  a  half  million  people.  We 
have  a  branch  in  Adelaide  which  is  twelve  hundred  miles  from 
headquarters.  Five  hundred  miles  farther  to  the  east  we  have  the 
City  of  Melbourne  in  the  State  of  Victoria.  Melbourne  has  over 
a  million  people,  more  people  than  in  the  States  of  Utah  and  Idaho 
put  together.  We  have  a  branch  there  with  a  few  elders.  Crossing 
the  vast  strait  to  the  south  is  Tasmania,  an  island  that  has  two 
hundred  fifty  thousand  people,  all  white  people.  There  is  not  a 
native,  nor  another  race  represented  there.  We  have  three  branches 
there,  and  we  are  happy  when  we  can  have  two  to  six  elders  there. 

Then,  coming  back,  Brother  Cowley  flew  into  Sidney  and  he 
said,  "President  Rees,  this  is  not  one  big  mission.  This  is  six  big 
missions,  any  one  of  which  is  as  big,  as  to  territory,  as  we  have  in 
America."  I  hope  some  day  to  see  a  mission  in  South  Australia  in 
the  City  of  Melbourne,  a  great  country  of  fine  people.  They,  too, 
honor  and  respect  our  elders.  Seldom  is  a  door  closed  upon  the 
face  of  one  of  our  missionaries  and  those  missionaries  go  out  to 
that  great  country  from  headquarters.  It  is  one  of  the  outstanding 
things  to  see  two  of  the  elders  called  to  cross  that  continent,  and 
settle  in  the  City  of  Perth,  and  be  left  on  their  own  to  preach  the 
gospel,  and  they  have  never  faltered.  They  know  that  God  has 
spoken  to  a  prophet  in  this  day  and  with  that  testimony  that  the 
words  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  to  this  Church  should  supersede  all 


130  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

the  opinions  of  men  spoken  or  written,  and  that  is  the  testimony  of 
these  humble  elders.  It  is  often  only  possible  for  the  President  of 
the  Mission  to  reach  that  far-off  section  once  a  year. 

There  are  nearly  eight  million  people  in  Australia,  nearly 
ninety-eight  percent  of  whom  came  from  the  British  Isles.  There 
are  many  people  there  that  belong  to  the  House  of  Israel.  Those 
elders  have  faith,  as  they  go  forth,  that  would  astonish  you.  When 
they  realize  that  they  are  ambassadors  of  God  our  Eternal  Father, 
they  speak  without  fear  and  bear  their  testimony  in  serious  lan- 
guage so  that  people  stop  and  listen.  They  administer  to  the  sick, 
and  do  the  many  things  that  are  handled  in  the  Church. 

Now  I  am  constrained  to  relate  one  little  circumstance  of  the 
many  faith-promoting  incidents  that  occurred.  On  one  occasion 
I  went  into  a  big  hospital  where  one  of  our  sisters  was  seriously 
sick.  I  was  called  in  by  the  physician  attending  her.  He  had 
said,  "I  would  like  to  consult  with  you  upon  this  case."  I  saw  the 
patient.  She  was  very,  very  sick.  Her  lips  were  blue.  Her  arms 
and  limbs  were  swollen.  Her  pulse  was  very,  very  weak,  and  the 
doctor  said,  "I  would  like  you  to  come  with  me  in  consultation."  I 
went  with  him.  He  brought  the  record  and  he  said,  "She  is  dying. 
She  cannot  live."  After  talking  with  him  for  a  time  he  said,  "Go 
back  now  as  the  minister  of  your  church  and  inform  her  family- — 
that  she  is  dying." 

When  I  went  back  the  family  was  smiling,  and  I  said  in  astonish- 
ment, "What  has  happened?"  Two  of  our  elders  had  come,  they 
said,  two  young  men  that  had  been  in  the  field  just  a  short  time,  and 
laid  their  hands  upon  her  head  and  said,  "You  shall  live."  I  stood 
there  with  the  doctor's  chart  in  my  hand  indicating  that  she  should 
die,  and  from  the  standpoint  of  the  medical  world,  I  too,  declared 
she  would  die.  I  was  so  astonished  and  overcome  I  was  wondering 
whether  those,  elders  had  been  carried  away  by  their  sympathy. 
I  couldn't  speak.  I  walked  away.  The  next  day  I  came  back,  the 
sister  opened  her  eyes  and  said,  "I  am  going  to  get  well.  The  Lord 
has  promised  that  to  me  through  the  elders." 

Brothers  and  sisters,  the  faith  of  those  elders,  though  they  are 
young,  is  the  most  powerful  that  I  ever  witnessed.  As  we  travel 
up  and  down  the  highways  and  byways  of  that  great  country  we  are 
thrilled  with  the  privilege  of  living  the  mission  life,  the  richness 
of  which  can  be  found  in  no  other  way. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ.  I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  that  they  who 
preside  at  the  head  of  this  Church  are  the  prophets  of  God  our 
Eternal  Father,  I  know  it  as  well  as  I  know  I  live.  I  give  this  testi- 
mony feeling  that  it  is  my  duty  to  declare  it  wherever  I  am  called 
upon  to  teach  the  word  of  the  Lord.  President  George  Albert 
Smith  said  to  those  elders,  "When  you  preach  before  the  people, 
preach  the  word  of  God.  There  is  so  much  that  is  beautiful  in 
this  Church  that  we  need  not  speak  with  disrespect  or  tear  down 
the  religion  of  any  other  people." 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  131 

I  am  happy  to  be  home  with  you  again,  God  bless  us,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

You  have  just  listened  to  President  Thomas  D.  Rees,  who  has 
filled  two  missions  in  Australia,  and  he  has  been  telling  you  about 
that  island  continent  the  size  of  United  States  of  America,  and 
about  your  sons  and  some  of  your  daughters  who  work  there  in  the 
interest  of  the  Church. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  need  your  assistance  and  the 
guidance  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  I  would  like  to  read  a  little  from 
the  book  of  Malachi,  whom  I  may  designate  as  a  prophet  of  the 
restoration,  for  he  has  a  great  deal  to  say  about  the  restoration. 

In  the  third  chapter  we  read: 

A  Prophet  of  the  Restoration 

Behold,  I  will  send  my  mesenger,  and  he  shall  prepare  the  way  be- 
fore me:  and  the  Lord,  whom  ye  seek,  shall  suddenly  come  to  his  temple, 
even  the  messenger  of  the  covenant,  whom  ye  delight  in:  behold,  he 
shall  come,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts.    (Malachi  3:1.) 

Throughout  the  world  the  idea  prevails  that  this  prediction 
has  reference  to  the  first  coming  of  Christ  in  the  days  of  his  ministry, 
but  this  is  not  the  case,  it  has  reference  to  his  second  coming,  for  the 
predictions  which  follow  were  not  fulfilled  at  his  first  coming,  but 
are  to  be  fulfilled  when  he  comes  in  power,  at  and  preceding  the  sec- 
ond coming.  We  read: 

But  who  may  abide  the  day  of  his  coming?  and  who  shall  stand  when 
he  appeareth?  for  he  is  like  a  refiner's  fire,  and  like  fuller's  soap: 

And  he  shall  sit  as  a  refiner  and  purifier  of  silver:  and  he  shall 
purify  the  sons  of  Levi,  and  purge  them  as  gold  and  silver,  that  they  may 
offer  unto  the  Lord  an  offering  in  righteousness. 

Then  shall  the  offering  of  Judah  and  Jerusalem  be  pleasant  unto  the 
Lord,  as  in  the  days  of  old,  and  as  in  former  years. 

And  I  will  come  near  to  you  to  judgment;  and  I  will  be  a  swift 
witness  against  the  sorcerers,  and  against  the  adulterers,  and  against 
false  swearers,  and  against  those  that  oppress  the  hireling  in  his  wages, 
the  widow,  and  the  fatherless,  and  that  turn  aside  the  stranger  from  his 
right,  and  fear  not  me,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  (Ibid.,  3:2-5.) 

Now  we  understand,  and  the  whole  world  could  understand, 
that  the  offering  of  Judah  in  the  days  of  Christ's  ministry,  was  not 
pleasant.  Levi  was  not  at  that  time  cleansed,  but  Judah  and  Levi 
turned  away  from  the  Lord.  It  is  in  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness 
of  Times  that  these  things  are  to  be  fulfilled. 


132  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

In  the  fourth  chapter  Malachi  speaks  again  of  the  coming  of  the 
Son  of  God,  in  these  words: 

For,  behold,  the  day  cometh,  that  shall  burn  as  an  oven;  and  all  the 
proud,  yea,  and  all  that  do  wickedly,  shall  be  stubble:  and  the  day 
that  cometh  shall  burn  them  up,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  that  it  shall 
leave  them  neither  root  nor  branch.  (Ibid.,  4:1.) 

This  will  happen  when  our  Savior  comes  in  his  glory  to  take 
vengeance  upon  the  ungodly  and  take  his  place  as  King  of  kings  and 
Lord  of  lords.  Then  this  prophet  Malachi  goes  on  to  say  that  before 
that  day  can  come,  which  will  be  terrible,  Elijah  the  prophet  was 
to  come,  and  these  are  the  words  as  we  have  them  in  this  King  James 
translation: 

Behold,  I  will  send  you  Elijah  the  prophet  before  the  coming  of  the 
great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord: 

And  he  shall  turn  the  heart  of  the  fathers  to  the  children,  and  the 
heart  of  the  children  to  their  fathers,  lest  I  come  and  smite  the  earth  with 
a  curse.  (Ibid.,  4:5-6.) 

Great  and  Dreadful  Day  Near 

The  whole  world  ought  to  take  notice  of  this  prediction,  but  the 
world  does  not  understand  it.  Surely  the  signs  of  the  times  point 
to  the  fact  that  the  great  and  dreadful  day  is  near,  even  at  our  doors. 
The  fig  tree,  figuratively,  is  putting  forth  her  leaves.  The  turmoil, 
trouble,  the  war  and  bloodshed  that  we  have  seen,  and  which  we 
still  see,  all  point  to  the  fact  that  this  day  for  the  coming  of  the  Son 
of  God  is  near.  Therefore,  Elijah  the  prophet  is  due  to  appear.  I 
am  sure  you  agree  with  me  that  he  has  already  appeared,  for  we 
have  it  so  recorded  by  the  testimony  of  witnesses.  It  was  on  the 
third  day  of  April,  1836,  when  he  came  to  the  Kirtland  Temple,  to 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery,  and  conferred  upon  them  the 
keys  of  his  priesthood  and  told  them  that  he  came  in  fulfillment  of 
the  prophecy  of  Malachi,  to  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the 
children,  and  the  children  to  their  fathers,  lest  the  whole  earth  be 
smitten  with  a  curse. 

Therefore,  the  keys  of  this  dispensation  are  committed  into  your 
hands;  and  by  this  ye  may  know  that  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the 
Lord  is  near,  even  at  the  doors.  (D.  &  C.  110:16.) 

Restoration  by  Elijah 

Well,  of  course,  the  world  does  not  believe  that  Elijah  came  to 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery;  but  they  have  no  record  in  the 
world  that  he  has  come  to  anyone  else.  There  has  been  no  appear- 
ance and  no  claim  of  an  appearance,  and  a  restoration  of  his  priest- 
hood to  anyone  else.  May  we  not,  then,  with  perfect  consistency, 
put  forth  the  claim  that  he  did  come  on  that  occasion  and  that  he  did 
restore  his  keys  of  authority  to  these  two  humble  men,  which  turned 
the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  their  children  and  the  hearts  of  the  chil- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  133 


dren  to  their  fathers?  No  one  else  has  ever  disputed  this  claim  by  the 
giving  of  another  claim.  And  why  could  he  not  come  to  Joseph 
Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  as  well  as  to  anybody  else?  I  testify  to 
you  that  he  did  come,  and  if  the  world  want  to  know  it  also,  they  can. 
We  have  an  abundance  of  evidence  that  this  story  is  true.  If  Joseph 
Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  had  lied,  it  would  have  been  impossible 
for  them  to  have  turned  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  their  children  and 
the  hearts  of  the  children  to  their  fathers.  Surely,  they  would  not 
have  any  power  to  do  that.  It  is  true  that  following  the  declaration 
by  them  that  Elijah  did  come,  the  hearts  of  the  children  commenced 
to  turn  to  their  dead  fathers.  There  is  strong  presumptive  evidence 
that  this  was  because  these  keys  were  restored.  This  is  a  demon- 
strative fact,  that  the  hearts  of  children  have  turned  to  their  fathers. 

Activity  in  Genealogy 

I  have  a  little  information  here  that  I  think  is  important,  and 
this  coming  of  Elijah  is  one  of  the  vital  things  in  the  history  of  this 
world.  It  is  vital  to  me  and  to  you  and  to  every  other  soul  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth.  Before  the  days  of  the  coming  of  Elijah  in  1836, 
there  was  no  endeavor  of  any  import  to  search  the  records  of  the 
dead.  What  was  done,  here  and  there,  was  usually  where  some 
estate  was  involved.  The  people  were  not  turning  their  hearts  to 
their  dead  fathers.  They  were  not  searching  the  records.  They 
were  not  compiling  them.  There  were  no  organizations  or  societies 
on  the  face  of  the  earth,  as  far  as  I  can  learn,  gathering  records  of 
the  dead,  before  the  year  1836.  In  1837,  however,  one  year  later, 
Great  Britain  passed  laws  providing  for  and  compelling  the  preserva- 
tion of  records  of  the  dead.  In  the  year  1844,  the  New  England 
Historical  and  Genealogical  Society  was  organized  in  Boston,  and  I 
think  this  was  the  first  organization  of  the  kind  in  the  world.  In 
1869,  the  New  York  Genealogical  and  Biographical  Society  in  the 
city  of  New  York  was  organized.  Then  followed  rapidly  other 
societies  up  and  down  the  Atlantic  coast  of  the  United  States,  from 
Maine  to  Georgia.  Then  these  organizations  began  to  spread  in- 
land, and  this  spirit  took  hold  of  the  people  in  other  parts.  I  have 
visited  some  of  these  societies  in  various  parts  of  the  United  States, 
and  they  have  extended  now  from  the  east  to  the  Pacific  Ocean.  In 
Great  Britain,  genealogical  societies  have  been  organized  in  practi- 
cally every  county  in  that  land  and  in  Scotland.  These  records 
have  been  kept  and  filed  also  in  other  countries  in  Europe,  the  coun- 
tries from  which  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  come.  The  spirit  has 
taken  hold  of  the  people,  not  only  in  the  Church,  but  also  of  many 
who  are  not  of  the  Church,  and  they,  too,  are  searching  the  records, 
and  compiling  them,  of  the  dead. 

Prevalence  of  Genealogical  Research 
In  the  year  1902, 1  had  the  privilege  of  going  east  on  a  genealogi- 


134  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

cal  mission.  My  father  wanted  me  to  go  because  there  was  some 
confusion  in  our  family  line  in  those  early  days,  which  he  wanted 
me  to  straighten  out.  I  went  back  to  Essex  County,  Massachusetts. 
At  Topsfleld,  where  our  ancestors  first  settled  in  the  United  States, 
I  became  acquainted  with  Mr.  George  Francis  Dow,  a  very  promin- 
ent gentleman  of  Massachusetts.  I  told  him  the  purpose  of  my  visit 
to  that  part  of  the  country.  He  invited  me  to  his  home.  I  asked 
him  where  I  could  find  the  best  sources  for  information  in  my  search. 
He  said:  "You  do  not  have  to  go  anywhere.  I  have  all  that  informa- 
tion. I  have  compiled  it."  So  he  put  in  my  hands  this  record,  and  I 
found  it  already  prepared.  He  was  working  on  many  other  lines 
also.  While  there  I  met  a  Mr.  Perley,  a  prominent  lawyer  of  Salem, 
Massachusetts.  He  likewise  was  engaged  in  genealogical  research. 
I  had  a  long  conversation  with  him.  He  told  me  that  he  had  under- 
taken a  great  work  for  the  benefit  of  the  descendants  of  people  who 
settled  in  Essex  County.  "It  is  my  ambition,"  he  said,  "if  I  can  do 
it,  to  search  out  the  records  of  every  individual  who  came  to  Essex 
County  before  the  year  1700.  I  said  to  him,  "Mr.  Perley,  you  have 
cut  out  for  yourself  a  big  work,  haven't  you?"  He  replied,  "Yes,  and 
I  am  afraid  I'll  never  finish  it."  Then  I  said  to  him,  "Why  are  you 
doing  this  work?"  He  thought  a  moment  and  looked  rather  puzzled 
and  then  replied,  "I  do  not  know  why,  but  I  got  started,  and  I  cannot 
stop."  I  said,  "I  can  tell  you  why  you  are  doing  this  and  why  you 
cannot  stop,  but  if  I  did,  you  would  not  believe  me  and  would  laugh 
at  me."  "Oh,"  he  said,  "I  don't  know.  If  you  can  tell  me,  I  am  sure 
I  will  be  interested."  Then  I  told  him  of  the  prophecy  concerning 
Elijah  and  the  fulfilment  of  this  promise  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
and  Oliver  Cowdery,  April  3,  1836,  in  the  Kirtland  Temple,  and  how 
this  spirit  of  research  had  taken  hold  of  many  people,  and  they  had 
turned  their  hearts  to  the  seeking  after  the  dead  in  fulfilment  of  this 
great  promise  which  was  to  come  before  the  second  coming,  so  that 
the  earth  would  not  be  smitten  with  a  curse.  Now  the  children  were 
turning  their  hearts  toward  their  fathers,  and  we  were  doing  the 
ordinance  work  for  the  dead  that  they  might  find  redemption  and 
have  the  privilege  of  coming  into  the  kingdom  of  God,  although  dead. 

When  I  got  through,  he  laughed  and  said,  "It  is  a  very  pretty 
story,  but  I  do  not  believe  it."  Yet  he  admitted  that  there  was  some- 
thing compelling  him  to  carry  on  this  research,  and  he  could  not 
stop.  I  have  met  a  great  many  others  who  also  started  and  could 
not  stop,  men  and  women  who  are  not  members  of  the  Church.  So 
we  find  today  thousands  of  men  and  women  searching  out  the  rec- 
ords of  the  dead.  They  do  not  know  why,  but  it  is  so  that  we  can 
obtain  these  compiled  records  and  go  into  our  temples  and  do  the 
work  for  our  dead. 

President  Clark  told  us  that  the  Church  is  putting  forth  con- 
siderable sums  for  the  purpose  of  collecting  records  in  Europe  that 
we  might  search  out  our  ancestors  and  go  into  the  house  of  the  Lord 
and  do  work  for  them. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  135 


Now  here  is  something  which  I  think  is  interesting.  In  1935, 
Mr.  T.  B.  Thompson  published  A  Catalogue  of  British  Family  His- 
tories. It  included  the  titles  and  years  of  publication  of  some  two 
thousand  seventy-one  families  and  was  supposed  to  be  a  complete 
list  of  all  such  published  records  up  to  that  date.  Here  are  his  figures 
from  the  date  of  the  invention  of  printing: 

From  1450  to  1600,  were  published  2  family  histories. 
From  1600  to  1700,  were  published  18  family  histories. 
From  1700  to  1800,  were  published  72  family  histories. 
From  1800  to  1836,  when  Elijah  came,  were  published  100  family 
histories. 

From  1837  to  1935,  were  published  1,879  family  histories. 

The  Keys  of  Sealing  Power 

These  were  records  in  Europe,  and  since  the  year  1836,  there 
have  been  published  in  Great  Britain  and  the  United  States  thou- 
sands of  records  of  the  dead.  I  have  some  other  things  I  would  like 
to  present  but  cannot  at  this  time.  Let  me  call  your  attention  to 
the  fact,  however,  my  good  brethren  and  sisters,  that  Elijah  restored 
to  this  Church  and,  if  they  would  receive  it,  to  the  world,  the  keys 
of  the  sealing  power;  and  that  sealing  power  puts  the  stamp  of  ap- 
proval upon  every  ordinance  that  is  done  in  this  Church  and  more 
particularly  those  that  are  performed  in  the  temples  of  the  Lord. 
Through  that  restoration  each  of  you,  my  brethren,  has  the  privi- 
lege, of  going  into  this  house  or  one  of  the  other  temples  (I  believe 
most  of  you  have  done  so)  to  have  your  wife  sealed  to  you  for  time 
and  for  all  eternity,  and  your  children  sealed  to  you  also,  or  better, 
have  them  born  under  that  covenant.  What  a  glorious  privilege  it 
is  to  know  that  the  family  organization  will  remain  intact.  It  is 
not  destroyed.  It  does  not  come  to  an  end  wherein  we  have  com- 
plied with  the  divine  law  by  virtue  of  the  keys  which  are  held  by 
the  President  of  the  Church.  We  may  go  into  the  house  of  the  Lord 
and  do  these  things  and  be  baptized  for  our  dead,  those  who  have 
died,  the  scriptures  say,  and  we  have  heard  it  repeated  at  this  con- 
ference, who  died  without  the  knowledge  of  the  gospel.  Our  duty 
is  to  search  out  our  dead,  and  I  am  very  grateful  that  the  Church 
is  helping  us  in  these  matters  by  securing  the  records  of  the  dead 
that  we  might  have  them,  and  our  duty  is  to  perform  the  necessary 
ordinances  in  their  behalf  in  our  temples. 

Statement  of  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has  said: 

The  Bible  says,  "I  will  send  you  Elijah  the  prophet  before  the  com- 
ing of  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord;  and  he  shall  turn  the 
hearts  of  the  fathers  to  their  children,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children  to  the 
fathers,  lest  I  come  and  smite  the  earth  with  a  curse." 

Now  the  word  tarn  here  should  be  translated  bind  or  seal.  But  what 
is  the  object  of  this  important  mission?  or  how  is  it  to  be  fulfilled?  The 


136  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday.  April  6  Third  Day 

keys  are  to  be  delivered,  the  spirit  of  Elijah  is  to  come,  the  Gospel  to 
be  established,  the  Saints  of  God  gathered,  Zion  built  up,  and  the  Saints 
to  come  up  as  saviors  on  Mount  Zion. 

But  how  are  they  to  become  saviors  on  Mount  Zion?  By  building 
their  temples,  erecting  their  baptismal  fonts,  and  going  forth  and  receiv- 
ing all  the  ordinances,  baptisms,  confirmations,  washings,  anointings, 
ordinations  and  sealing  powers  upon  their  heads,  in  behalf  of  their 
progenitors  who  are  dead,  and  redeem  them  that  they  may  come  forth 
in  the  first  resurrection  and  be  exalted  to  thrones  of  glory  with  them; 
and  herein  is  the  chain  that  binds  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children, 
and  the  children  to  the  fathers,  which  fulfills  the  mission  of  Elijah.  .  .  . 

The  Saints  have  not  too  much  time  to  save  and  redeem  their  dead, 
and  gather  together  their  living  relatives,  that  they  may  be  saved  also, 
before  the  earth  will  be  smitten,  and  the  consumption  decreed  falls  upon 
the  world. 

I  would  advise  all  the  Saints  to  go  with  their  might  and  gather  to- 
gether all  their  living  relatives  to  this  place,  that  they  may  be  sealed  and 
saved,  that  they  may  be  prepared  against  the  day  that  the  destroying 
angel  goes  forth;  and  if  the  whole  Church  should  go  to  with  all  their 
might  to  save  their  dead,  seal  their  posterity,  and  gather  their  living 
friends,  and  spend  none  of  their  time  in  behalf  of  the  world,  they  would 
hardly  get  through  before  night  would  come,  when  no  man  can  work;  .  .  . 

The  question  is  frequently  asked:  "Can  we  not  be  saved  without  going 
through  with  all  these  ordinances,  etc.?"  I  would  answer,  No,  not  the 
fullness  of  salvation.  Jesus  said,  "There  are  many  mansions  in  my 
Father's  house,  and  I  will  go  and  prepare  a  place  for  you."  House  here 
named  should  have  been  translated  kingdom;  and  any  person  who  is 
exalted  to  the  highest  mansion  has  to  abide  a  celestial  law,  and  the  whole 
law,  too.  (D.H.C.  6:183-184.) 

I  call  your  attention  to  these  things.  The  Lord  bless  you,  I 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

The  Ricks  College  Choir  will  now  sing  "O  Savior  of  the 
World,"  by  Goss. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Lewis  R.  Critch- 
field  of  the  Cassia  Stake,  Oakley,  Idaho,  after  which  this  conference 
will  stand  adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

The  meeting  this  afternoon  will  be  broadcast  as  already  indi- 
cated this  morning. 

This  afternoon  the  audience  should  be  in  their  seats  not  later 
than  ten  minutes  before  the  hour  of  beginning  the  meeting. 

The  choir  singing  for  this  session  of  the  conference  has  been 
by  the  Ricks  College  Choir  with  Elder  John  M.  Anderson  conduct- 
ing and  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ.  They  have  cer- 
tainly done  a  fine  job,  and  we  are  glad  they  come  from  a  country 
where  it  snows  so  they  won't  be  discouraged  with  us. 

The  Ricks  College  Choir  sang:  "O  Savior  of  the  World,"  after 
which  the  benediction  was  pronounced  by  President  Lewis  R.  Critch- 
field,  of  the  Cassia  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.m. 


PRESENTATION  OF  AUTHORITIES  137 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  concluding  general  session  of  the  Conference  was  held 
Tuesday,  April  6,  at  2:00  p.m. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

This  is  the  seventh  and  closing  session  of  the  1 18th  Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are 
convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah. 

There  are  on  the  stand  this  afternoon  all  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church  except  Elder  Stephen  L  Richards,  who  is  returning 
from  a  tour  through  the  South  American  Missions;  Elder  Matthew 
Cowley,  who  is  presiding  over  the  Pacific  Missions;  Elder  Thomas 
E.  McKay  who  is  convalescing  from  a  minor  operation,  and  Elder 
Alma  Sonne,  who  is  in  Europe  in  charge  of  the  European  Mission. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  at 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the  following 
stations:  KDSH  at  Boise,  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls, 
KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at  Vernal,  and  over 
KTYL  at  Mesa  by  transcription. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  will  be  rendered  by  the  Ricks 
College  Choir  with  Elder  John  M.  Anderson  conducting,  and  with 
Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  this  afternoon's  service  by  the  choir  singing 
"Cherubim  Song,"  by  Bortniansky. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Douglas  Q. 
Cannon  of  the  Garfield  Stake,  Circleville,  Utah. 


The  Ricks  College  Choir  sang  "Cherubim  Song." 

Elder  Douglas  Q.  Cannon,  President  of  the  Garfield  Stake  of- 
fered the  opening  prayer. 

Selection  by  the  Ricks  College  Choir,  "He  Watching  Over 
Israel,"  from  "Elijah"  by  Mendelssohn. 


President  David  O.  McKay  presented  the  General  Authorities, 
General  Officers,  and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church,  and 
they  were  unanimously  sustained  by  those  present,  as  follows: 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

First  Presidency 

George  Albert  Smith,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 


138  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday.  April  6  Third  Dag 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
George  F.  Richards 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

George  F.  Richards  Harold  B.  Lee 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Spencer  W.  Kimball 

Stephen  L  Richards  Ezra  Taft  Benson 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Mark  E.  Petersen 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  Matthew  Cowley 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Henry  D.  Moyle 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles, 
and  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Marion  G.  Romney  Clifford  E.  Young 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Alma  Sonne 

Trustee-in-Trust 
George  Albert  Smith 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Seymour  Dilworth  Young 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Milton  R.  Hunter 

Richard  L.  Evans  Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

The  Presiding  Bishopric 

LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  First  Counselor 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant 


PRESENTATION  OF  AUTHORITIES 


Church  Board  of  Education 


George  Albert  Smith 
.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 
3avid  O.  McKay 
oseph  Fielding  Smith 

Stephen  L  T?ichards 


John  A.  Widtsoe 
Adam  S.  Bennion 
Joseph  F.  Merrill 
Franklin  L.  West 
Albert  E.  Bowen 


Frank  Evans,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

Commissioner  of  Education 
Franklin  L.  West 

Seminary  Supervisor 
J.  Karl  Wood 

Auditing  and  Finance  Committee 


Orval  W.  Adams 
Albert  E.  Bowen 


George  S.  Spencer 
Harold  H.  Bennett 


Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner  Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 


Advisors 


John  A.  Widtsoe 
Albert  E.  Bowen 
Harold  B.  Lee 
Marion  G.  Romney 
Thomas  E.  McKay 
Alma  Sonne 


Antoine  R.  Ivins 
Oscar  A.  Kirkham 
LeGrand  Richards 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 


General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 
General  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 

Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 
William  E.  Ryberg  Mark  B.  Garff 

Roscoe  W.  Eardley  Leonard  E.  Adams 

Paul  C.  Child  J.  Leonard  Love 

T.  C.  Stayner  William  T.  Lawrence 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Velma  N.  Simonsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

Milton  Bennion,  General  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
A.  Hamer  Reiser,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

George  Q.  Morris,  General  Superintendent 
John  D.  Giles,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Lorenzo  H.  Hatch,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 


Adele  Cannon  Howells,  President 
LaVern  W.  Parmley,  First  Counselor 
Dessie  G.  Boyle,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

There  is  a  change  which  must  necessarily  be  made  in  the 
Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association.  For  several 
months  past  Sister  Lucy  Grant  Cannon  has  expressed  the  thought 
that  wisdom  would  prompt  her  being  given  an  honorable  release  as 
president  of  the  Young  Women's  Association  in  the  Church.  Her 
husband,  Brother  George  J.  Cannon,  has  also  consulted  the  First 
Presidency.  There  is  nothing  which  Sister  Cannon  would  not  do 
or  which  Brother  George  J.  would  not  do  for  the  advancement  of 
the  Church,  but  the  Lord,  I  am  sure,  does  not  want  anyone  to 
sacrifice  his  or  her  health.  He  wants  us  to  live  and  devote  the 
energy  and  strength  which  he  has  given  us  to  the  welfare  of  our 
loved  ones  as  well  as  to  the  Church. 

It  is  with  reluctance  that  the  First  Presidency  yield  to  the  sug- 
gestion, that  owing  to  her  health  and  conditions  at  home,  we  relieve 
Sister  Cannon  of  some  of  her  arduous  duties  in  the  Church.  In 
coming  to  this  conclusion  we  but  express  your  feelings  and  your 
knowledge  when  we  say  Sister  Cannon  is  loyal,  faithful  by  inheri- 
tance, by  training,  and  by  a  life  of  devoted  service.  She  has  radiated 
cheerfulness  throughout  her  life.    She  has  rendered  a  service  in 


Relief  Society 


Primary  Association 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  141 


teaching  and  expressed  that  teaching  also  by  radiation  from  a  sin- 
cere soul. 

Thousands,  I  might  say  tens  of  thousands  of  young  women  and 
others  in  this  Church,  will  bless  her  for  the  service  she  has  given 
and  for  the  encouragement  rendered. 

She  has  had  two  loyal,  faithful  counselors,  women  who  have 
sustained  her  unitedly,  and  we  commend  them — all  three  of  them — 
for  the  contribution  they  have  given  to  this  Church  and  particularly 
to  this  most  important  auxiliary  organization,  the  Young  Women's 
Mutual  Improvement  Association. 

It  was  thought  that  it  would  be  well  to  release  the  presidency 
and  the  members  of  the  board  at  this  time  and  sustain  others  to 
succeed  them,  but  June  conference  is  approaching.  The  program 
is  already  well  in  hand,  and  it  would  be  rather  unfair  to  ask  a  new 
board  to  take  charge  and  consummate  that  program.  On  the  other 
hand,  we  should  take  some  action  so  that  those  who  succeed  these 
sisters  will  have  the  experience  between  now  and  June  of  partici- 
pating in  the  preparation  of  lessons  for  next  year,  the  plan  of  which 
will  be  presented  in  the  June  conference. 

We  recommend  therefore  that  the  present  board,  Sister  Cannon 
and  her  counselors  and  members  of  the  board,  continue  until  June, 
when  they  will  be  honorably  released.  In  the  meantime,  we  should 
like  to  ask  you  to  sustain  Sister  Cannon's  successor  that  she  may, 
with  your  sustaining  vote  and  the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  have  ample 
time  to  choose  her  counselors  and  members  of  the  board  who  will 
succeed  the  present  presidency  and  board.  So  we  submit  the  follow- 
to  you  with  that  understanding: 

That  we  sustain  Sister  Lucy  Grant  Cannon  as  President,  Verna 
Wright  Goddard  as  first  counselor,  and  Lucy  T.  Andersen  as  second 
counselor,  with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  consti- 
tuted, to  serve  until  the  June  conference.  All  in  favor  please  mani- 
fest it. 

(This  proposition  was  unanimously  sustained  by  the  uplifted 
hands  of  those  present. ) 

Any  opposed,  by  the  same  sign. 
(There  was  no  negative  vote) 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  as  Sister  Cannon's  successor  as 
president  of  the  Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  Sister  Bertha 
Stone  Reeder,  wife  of  President  Wm.  H.  Reeder,  who  were  re- 
cently in  the  presidency  of  the  New  England  Mission. 

All  in  favor  of  this  proposal  will  please  manifest  it. 

( All  present  signified  their  approval  by  raising  their  right  hands. ) 

Opposed  by  the  same  sign. 

(There  were  no  opposing  votes.) 

The  voting  in  all  cases,  has  been  unanimous  in  the  affirmative. 


142  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday.  April  6  Third  Day 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

I  cannot  resist  the  temptation  to  say  that  it  is  worth  the  trip  from 
Los  Angeles  or  New  York  or  San  Francisco  to'  be  in  this  house  and 
see  the  voting  for  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church.  As  your 
hands  go  up  it  is  a  real  picture.  We  appreciate  the  harmony  and  the 
unity  with  which  these  officers  have  all  been  sustained. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

It  is  with  a  prayer  in  my  heart,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I 
attempt,  this  afternoon,  to  express  one  or  two  thoughts. 

The  Pre-existent  State 

This  morning  as  we  listened  to  that  beautiful  number,  rendered 
in  such  an  inspirational  way  by  the  choir  of  Ricks  College,  "For  God 
so  loved  the  world,  that  he  gave  his  Only  Begotten  Son,  that  who- 
soever believeth  in  him  should  not  perish,  but  have  everlasting  life," 
it  took  my  mind  back  into  the  pre-existent  state,  when  God  our 
Eternal  Father  sat  in  counsel  with  the  great  and  the  mighty  ones  in 
an  endeavor  to  evolve  a  plan  whereby  his  children  might  come  to 
the  earth  and  have  all  the  experiences  of  mortality,  and  at  the  same 
time,  a  plan  which  would  permit  them  to  return  and  dwell  with  him 
throughout  the  eternities  to  come.  There  were  presented  in  that 
great  council  two  plans;  one  by  Lucifer,  a  son  of  the  morning.  His 
proposal  was  that  all  of  the  children  of  God  should  be  saved  and 
returned  to  him.  But  he  would  force  salvation  upon  them,  and  for 
that  achievement  he  was  to  have  all  of  the  honor  and  the  glory.  That 
plan  was  rejected  and  another  son  of  God  came  forth  in  the  spirit 
of,  "Lord,  here  am  I,"  proposing  a  plan  whereby  all  spirits  should 
have  their  free  agency  and  where,  through  a  gospel  of  love,  a  gospel 
which  would  bring  them  a  knowledge  and  a  testimony  that  God  the 
Eternal  Father  loved  them  and  because  of  his  great  love  for  them, 
they  in  turn  would  love  and  obey  the  Lord  and  thereby  have  the 
privilege  of  returning  to  his  presence. 

I  am  quite  sure  that  when  our  Heavenly  Father  looked  into  that 
great  multitude  of  spiritual  faces,  he  knew  that  there  were  not  any 
two  of  them  alike,  in  personality,  or  in  gifts  or  talents,  and  hence  a 
plan  had  to  be  adopted  which  would  fit  all  of  these  personalities  and 
their  talents.  Hence,  he  accepted  the  plan  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ; 
and  then  he  so  loved  the  world  that  he  gave  his  Only  Begotten  Son 
that  whosoever  believed  in  him  should  not  perish  but  should  have 
everlasting  life. 

Advent  of  the  Son  of  God 
In  the  meridian  of  time  the  Son  of  God  appeared  among  men, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  143 


and  he  made  it  plain  that  he  had  come  to  serve  God  and  to  give  God 
all  the  glory  and  the  credit  for  his  achievements,  and  said  he, 

For  I  came  down  from  heaven,  not  to  do  mine  own  will,  but  the 
will  of  him  that  sent  me.  (John  6:38.) 

He  also  taught  the  people  that  he  had  come  as  the  living  bread  which 
came  down  from  heaven. 

...  if  any  man  eat  of  this  bread,  he  shall  live  for  ever:  and  the 
bread  that  I  will  give  is  my  flesh,  which  I  will  give  for  the  life  of  the 
world.  (John  6:51.) 

As  we  contemplate  the  ministry  of  the  Savior,  we  will  recall  the 
time  when,  in  the  Garden  of  Gethsemane,  he  suffered  spiritual  and 
mental  anguish  in  anticipation  of  the  crucifixion  that  was  just  about 
to  take  place,  and  in  that  hour  he  called  to'  his  Father  in  heaven, 

...  if  this  cup  may  not  pass  away  from  me,  except  I  drink  it,  thy 
will  be  done.  (Matt.  26:42.) 

And  the  Savior  was  crucified.  His  bleeding  and  pierced  body  was 
taken  down  from  the  cross,  consummating  the  plan  of  the  great 
atonement,  as  Paul  said, 

For  as  in  Adam  all  die,  even  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be  made  alive. 
(I  Cor.  15:22.) 

The  Faith  of  Abraham 

There  was  another  father  and  his  son,  Father  Abraham,  a  man 
without  guile,  and  who  was  privileged  to  walk  and  talk  with  divine 
beings.  Abraham  was  an  old  man,  a  man  ninety-nine  years  of  age 
and  up  to  that  time  he  had  not  been  blessed  with  a  son  by  his  wife 
Sarah.  Three  heavenly  messengers  appeared  to  him  and  promised 
that  he  and  Sarah  in  their  declining  years  should  have  the  blessing 
of  a  son.  A  son  was  born  unto  them,  and  he  was  named  Isaac,  be- 
coming their  most  precious  possession.  Abraham  heard  the  voice 
of  the  Lord  calling  and  in  response  to  the  Lord  said,  "Behold,  here 
I  am,"  and  the  Lord  said  to  him: 

.  .  .  Take  now  thy  son,  thine  only  son  Isaac,  whom  thou  lovest,  and 
get  thee  into  the  land  of  Moriah;  and  offer  him  there  for  a  burnt  offering 
upon  one  of  the  mountains  which  I  will  tell  thee  of.  (Gen.  22:2.) 

Abraham  secured  wood  and  a  knife  and  requesting  two  young 
men  to  accompany  him,  made  the  journey  to  the  base  of  the  desig- 
nated mountain,  and  there  Abraham  requested  the  two  young  men 
to  remain  behind,  and  taking  Isaac  by  the  hand  pushed  toward  the 
summit.  Arriving  there,  an  altar  was  built,  wood  was  placed  upon 
it.  The  curiosity  of  the  boy  was  aroused,  and  he  asked  his  father, 
"Behold  the  fire  and  the  wood;  but  where  is  the  lamb  for  a  burnt 
offering?"  And  Abraham  said,  "My  son,  God  will  provide  himself 
a  lamb  for  a  burnt  offering." 

Abraham's  faith  in  God  was  so  implicit  and  profound  that,  al- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dag 


though  in  the  moment  of  offering  up  his  own  son,  he  felt  that  God 
would  provide  a  lamb  for  the  sacrifice.  Isaac  was  bound  upon  the 
altar.  The  arm  of  Abraham  was  raised  to  strike  the  fatal  blow 
when  he  heard  the  voice  of  an  angel  calling  to  him  from  heaven  and 
said,  "Abraham,  Abraham:  and  he  said,  Here  am  I.  And  he  said, 
Lay  not  thine  hand  upon  the  lad,  neither  do<  thou  anything  unto  him; 
for  now  I  know  that  thou  fearest  God,  seeing  thou  hast  not  withheld 
thy  son,  thine  only  son  from  me.  And  Abraham  lifted  up  his  eyes, 
and  looked,  and  behold  behind  him,  a  ram  caught  in  a  thicket  by  his 
horns;  and  Abraham  went  and  took  the  ram,  and  offered  him  up  for 
a  burnt  offering  in  the  stead  of  his  son."  (See  Genesis  22.) 

Abraham's  faith  in  God  was  wholly  justified,  for  while  he  was 
about  to  sacrifice  his  own  son,  God  provided  a  ram.  The  obedience 
of  Abraham  in  this  incident,  without  a  doubt,  is  one  of  the  greatest 
examples  of  obedience  in  the  history  of  the  whole  human  family,  and 
because  of  his  great  love  for  God  and  having  implicit  faith  in  God, 
God  made  him  the  father  of  all  nations,  promising  him  that  his 
descendants  would  be  as  numerous  as  the  sands  of  the  seashore. 
God  so  loved  the  world  that  he  gave  his  Only  Begotten  Son,  and 
Abraham  so  loved  God  that  he  was  willing  to  sacrifice  his  son  at  the 
command  of  God. 


The  law  of  sacrifice  was  ended  upon  the  cross  and  a  new  era 
was  inaugurated,  the  era  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  which 
would  give  men  the  opportunity  to  serve  God  in  the  spirit  of  love. 
After  the  crucifixion  and  the  resurrection  of  the  Savior,  his  apostles 
went  forth  and  preached  the  gospel  of  the  kingdom.  Shortly  after, 
they  too  gave  their  lives  and  disappeared;  the  Church's  organization 
disintegrated;  men  substituted  their  own  doctrines  for  those  of  the 
Christ;  they  changed  the  organization  and  the  ordinances;  and  it 
was  only  a  short  time  until  the  shadow  of  the  great  apostasy  was 
upon  the  earth.  For  some  two  thousand  years  ecclesiastical  and  polit- 
ical tyranny  dictated  to  men  as  to  what  kind  of  God  they  should 
worship  and  what  kind  of  principles  they  should  follow  and  obey. 
There  were  many  of  them  who  had  the  inherent  blessing  in  their 
hearts,  that  of  free  agency,  who  refused  to  accept  man-made  gods 
and  man-made  doctrines,  and  consequently,  the  penalty  was  death. 
But  the  dawn  of  a  new  day  was  upon  the  horizon,  the  day  when  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  should  be  restored,  and  in  answer 
to  the  supplication  of  a  humble  boy  in  the  woods  of  western  New 
York,  that  same  God  who  presided  in  the  great  spiritual  council, 
and  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  who  had  been  crucified  and  resurrected 
stood  before  him.  The  Father  introduced  him,  saying  to  the  boy, 
"This  is  my  Beloved  Son,  hear  him!" 


Apostasy  from  the  Truth 


Restoration  of  the  Gospel 


The  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  was  restored  in  its  fulness, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  145 


and  just  one  hundred  and  eighteen  years  ago,  on  this  very  day,  the 
Church  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  was  officially  organized.  It  has  a 
complete  organization,  with  a  prophet  of  God  standing  at  its  head, 
twelve  apostles,  and  the  two  priesthoods,  and  with  every  officer  that 
is  necessary  to  have  it  function  as  perfectly  in  behalf  of  the  Lord's 
children  as  it  did  two  thousand  years  ago. 

The  people  joined  the  Church  by  the  hundreds,  those  who  had 
been  seeking  light  and  truth.  The  early  members  of  this  Church 
were  driven  from  Kirtland  to  Independence,  and  from  Independence 
to  Nauvoo  ,and  from  Nauvoo  to  these  promised  valleys.  Perhaps 
we  shall  never  realize  or  know  what  they  suffered  or  what  they  went 
through.  In  thinking  of  them,  with  your  indulgence  I  would  like  to 
speak  of  my  own  grandfather.  He  caught  the  spirit  of  gathering  in 
one  of  the  far-off  European  countries,  and  made  the  long  journey 
to  the  valley  of  the  Great  Salt  Lake.  Upon  arriving  here  he  stood  on 
what  is  now  Main  Street,  with  just  the  clothes  he  had  on  his  back, 
with  one  silver  dollar  in  his  pocket,  and  a  pair  of  shoes  that  were 
about  worn  out,  for  he  had  made  the  long  trek  from  the  banks  of 
the  Mississippi  to  the  valley  of  the  Great  Salt  Lake  afoot.  He  soon 
married;  and  going  out  to  what  is  now  the  corner  of  Eighth  East 
and  South  Temple,  he  built  a  mansion,  a  one-room  dugout  in  the 
ground.  Becoming  somewhat  prosperous,  after  two  years  they  came 
up  out  of  the  ground  and  erected  two  rooms  upon  the  surface.  Here 
my  father  and  other  children  were  born.  They  were  in  the  vale  of 
poverty,  but  that  mattered  not.  They  had  received  the  light  and  the 
truth  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  They  felt  it  was  not 
only  a  blessing  for  them,  but  a  blessing  also  for  their  unborn  posterity, 
even  down  to  the  fourth  and  fifth  generations.  Were  they  not  in  the 
shades  of  the  temple  of  which  Isaiah  spoke,  which  was  being  slowly 
but  surely  erected?  Did  they  not  have  the  privilege  of  coming  into 
this  historic  building,  hearing  the  voice  of  the  prophets  of  God  and 
accepting  their  counsel  as  if  it  came  directly  from  God? 

Faith  of  Grandparents 

In  a  short  time  the  Lord  did  speak  to  them  through  his  prophet, 
my  grandfather  being  called  to  go  on  a  mission.  They  took  inventory 
of  their  resources  and  discovered  that  they  did  not  have  the  finances 
to  pay  his  traveling  expenses  back  to  his  mission  field.  It  was  decided 
to  sell  the  family  cow,  their  only  source  of  food.  It  was  sold  without 
any  hesitation,  grandfather  taking  the  money  and  making  his  way 
back  to  Switzerland.  My  grandmother  had  the  responsibility  of 
maintaining  the  family  and  of  doing  what  she  could  for  her  husband 
in  a  financial  way.  She  went  to  work  sewing  salt  sacks  for  one  dollar 
a  thousand,  payable  in  tithing  scrip. 

I  am  quite  sure  that  many  of  us  would  say  that  was  a  great 
sacrifice;  that  it  was  in  the  extreme;  that  it  was  fanatical.  We  might 
even  say  it  was  radical;  but  I  want  to  say  that  if  any  of  us  were  ever 
to  make  such  an  accusation  against  our  grandparents  who  gave  their 


146  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,  April  6  Third  Dag 

all  for  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  we  are  forgetting  that 
they  loved  God  with  all  their  soul,  might  and  strength.  We  forget 
too,  that  God  had  endowed  them  with  a  divine  revelation  that  we 
call  a  testimony  by  the  power  of  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  so  that 
they  knew  that  God  lived,  they  knew  that  he  who  was  crucified  upon 
Calvary's  Hill  was  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  the  humble  boy 
who  supplicated  God  in  the  woods  of  New  York  was  his  chosen 
servant  in  the  last  days  through  whom  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  was  restored.  To  accuse  them  of  being  fanatical  would  be 
to  accuse  God  of  being  fanatical,  because  he  gave  his  Only  Son, 
it  would  be  to  accuse  Abraham  of  being  radical,  because  he  too 
was  willing  to  sacrifice  his  only  son  upon  God's  command. 

'  The  spirit  of  the  pioneers  is  reflected  in  these  words,  "Labor  not 
for  the  meat  which  perisheth,  but  for  that  meat  which  endureth  unto 
everlasting  life,  which  the  Son  of  God  shall  give  unto  you." 

Two  Kinds  of  Sacrifice 

In  thinking  of  our  fathers;  our  Heavenly  Father,  our  father 
Abraham  and  our  pioneer  forefathers,  I  wonder  what  all  this  means, 
to  you  and  to  me.  I  wonder  if  we  accept  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  and  all  of  its  obligations  as  an  opportunity,  or  I  wonder  if 
we  accept  these  obligations  somewhat  in  the  spirit  of  sacrifice.  I 
tell  you  there  are  two  kinds  of  sacrifices.  The  greatest  sacrifice  was 
made  by  God,  namely  the  offering  of  his  son  for  the  atonement  and 
salvation  of  mankind,  and  that  of  Abraham  in  the  offering  of  his  son, 
Isaac,  as  a  sacrifice  out  of  pure  love  for  God  and  his  full  understand- 
ing of  the  law  of  obedience.  The  other  kind  of  sacrifice  has  the 
atmosphere  of  selfishness  which  causes  men  to  feel  that  they  are 
giving  too  much  for  this  great  cause,  and  that  kind  of  sacrifice,  let 
me  tell  you,  circumscribes  and  restricts  people  in  their  activities  in 
this  great  Church,  for  God  expects  us  to'  give  liberally  and  freely 
of  our  talents,  our  resources  and  our  all  for  the  upbuilding  of  his 
kingdom,  as  did  our  pioneer  forefathers. 

Do  you  approach  your  assignments  in  the  spirit  of  sacrifice,  do 
you  do  your  temple  work  in  the  spirit  of  being  a  savior  on  Mt.  Zion, 
or  do  you  do  it  in  the  spirit  of  sacrifice?  Do  you  pay  your  contribu- 
tions as  a  sacrifice  or  do  you  pay  them  because  you  wish  to  express 
gratitude  to  God  for  the  many  blessings  that  he  has  bestowed  upon 
you,  and  you  are  but  returning  that  part  which  belongs  to  him?  Do 
you  who  are  called  to  go  out  and  teach  the  people  the  doctrines  of 
the  kingdom,  do  it  in  the  spirit  of  sacrificing  your  time,  or  do  you  do  it 
in  the  spirit  of  liberality,  with  a  desire  to  contribute  all  you  can  for  the 
salvation  of  the  souls  of  our  Heavenly  Father's  children?  Do  you 
who  send  out  missionaries,  do  it  in  the  spirit  of  sacrifice  or  do  you 
do  it  in  the  spirit  of  promulgating  through  your  children  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  as  your  forefathers  and  mine  preached  it?  If  we  go 
forward  in  the  spirit  of  the  gospel,  which  is  the  spirit  of  opportunity, 
the  spirit  of  service  and  love,  there  is  no  question  that  the  Lord 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  147 


God  will  bless  us  and  keep  his  promises  in  providing  us  with  our 
daily  needs.  We  should  always  follow  the  admonition  of  the  Savior, 

.  .  .  seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness;  and  all 
these  things  shall  be  added  unto  you.  (Matt.  6:33.) 

never  forgetting  that  the  first  and  great  commandment  is  to, 

.  .  .  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy 
soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind,  and  with  all  thy  strength:  this  is  the  first 
commandment. 

And  the  second  is  like,  namely  this,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor 
as  thyself.  (Mark  12:30-31.) 

which  brings  me  to  another  thought.  When  thinking  of  this  great 
welfare  program  can  you  think  of  an  opportunity  that  is  comparable 
to  it  in  loving  our  neighbors  as  we  love  ourselves?  If  modern-day 
Israel  ever  received  a  revelation  in  this  day  with  reference  to'  what 
we  should  do  in  loving  and  helping  our  neighbor,  let  me  tell  you  the 
opportunity  has  come  through  the  great  welfare  program  of  this 
Church.  The  hundred  carloads  of  food  that  we  have  sent  has  been 
a  blessing  to  those  who  have  been  in  need,  but  think  of  the  blessings 
that  will  come  to  us  because  we  thought  of  them,  expressing  our 
love  in  food  and  clothing. 

Love  of  God  Requires  Action 

Love  of  God  is  something  that  requires  action,  for  men  cannot 
have  faith  in  God,  nor  love  him,  unless  they  are  acting  in  his  cause, 
with  their  whole  heart  constantly  thinking  of  him  and  giving  of  their 
physical  strength  in  love. 

.  .  .  God  so  loved  the  world,  that  he  gave  his  only  begotten  Son. 
(lohn  3:16.) 

and  Abraham  so  loved  God  that  he  was  willing  to  give  his  son,  and 
your  fathers  and  mine  so  loved  God  that  they  gave  their  all  to  estab- 
lish the  kingdom  here  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains,  where  you  and  I 
might  enjoy  every  blessing  which  will  be  for  our  spiritual  and  tem- 
poral good.  Let  us  remember  this,  too,  that  God  calls  men  in  this 
day  exactly  as  he  called  in  the  day  of  Abraham,  exactly  as  he  called 
in  the  day  of  the  Savior,  and  in  the  day  of  Joseph  Smith.  He  may  call 
to  you  and  he  may  call  to  me,  through  his  servants — the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  through  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  or  through 
any  of  the  other  General  Authorities.  He  may  call  to  us  to  render 
some  service  through  the  stake  presidency  or  our  bishop,  and  please 
remember  when  they  call,  it  is  the  voice  of  God,  speaking  through 
them  to  us,  and  they  are  not  calling  because  of  their  choice,  but 
because  they  are  God's  servants  endowed  with  the  authority  to  call 
upon  us  to  render  service  whenever  it  is  needed.  So,  in  the  Spirit 
of  Jesus  when  that  call  comes  let  us  answer  as  Abraham  answered, 
and  as  the  Prophet  answered,  and  as  your  forefathers  and  mine 
answered;  "Lord,  behold,  here  am  I,"  and  never  forgetting  that  God 


148  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

so  loved  the  world  that  he  gave  his  Only  Begotten  Son,  that  he  who 
believeth  in  him  shall  not  perish,  but  have  everlasting  life,  which 
I  pray  will  be  the  blessing  and  the  destiny  of  each  and  every  one  of 
us,  in  the  name  of  our  crucified  Savior.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now 
address  us,  although  he  has  been  advised  by  those  who  have  been 
looking  after  his  welfare  that  he  must  not  exert  himself,  but  we  know 
he  would  like  to  bear  his  testimony  and  other  than  that  do  as  he 
pleases. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  o/  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  always  a  great  privilege  to  be 
allowed  to  bear  testimony  of  the  truth  of  the  great  work  in  which 
we  are  engaged.  It  may  be  in  the  great  Tabernacle  where  we  are 
now  assembled  or  it  may  be  in  a  humble  cottage  meeting;  it  matters 
little.  It  is  very  good  for  all  of  us,  every  member,  to  give  voice  to 
his  testimony,  to  his  belief,  to  his  faith  in  this  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Testimony  of  the  Truth 

This  work  is  of  God;  established  by  him,  by  the  voice  of  revela- 
tion. It  is  the  truth.  It  has  been  my  joy,  throughout  the  years  of  my 
life,  to  discover  from  time  to  time,  that  every  principle,  every  doc- 
trine, every  historic  event  in  the  building  of  this  great  latter-day 
kingdom,  are  in  harmony  with  every  discovered  and  revealed  truth. 
This  is  the  truth,  and  we  must  rely  upon  it,  learn  to  understand  that 
it  is  the  truth;  otherwise  the  great  joy  that  the  Lord  has  offered  us 
in  this  work  will  not  be  ours.  I  agree  with  Brigham  Young  that 
another  name  for  the  gospel  might  well  be  truth. 

Along  with  truth  comes  light.  Light  is  never  found  except  in 
the  presence  of  truth.  The  Lord  in  his  latter-day  revelations  said 
over  and  over  again  that  truth  and  light  go  together.  We  who  re- 
ceive truth  have  light  to  point  the  way,  to  solve  our  problems,  to 
tell  us  where  we  are  going,  and  to  give  us  an  enlightening  faith  to 
help  us  in  the  journey  of  life. 

Truth  also  does  something  else  for  us:  It  gives  us  power,  not 
only  principles  and  doctrines  of  truth  and  light,  but  it  also  gives 
power  to  accomplish  the  work  of  the  Lord  in  these  latter-days. 

The  Sealing  Power 

I  trust  all  of  us  listened  intently  to  the  sermon  by  Elder  Joseph  Field- 
ing Smith  today.    The  power  of  the  priesthood,  the  power  of  this 


ELDER  WILLIAM  H.  REEDER,  JR.  149 


Church,  culminates  in  the  sealing  power  which  is  exercised  ordinar- 
ily in  the  temples  of  the  Most  High.  He  might  have  quoted,  if  he 
had  had  more  time  this  morning,  from  Moroni  the  prophet,  who  was 
visiting  Joseph  Smith  the  boy,  as  he  was  then,  the  change  made  in 
the  statement  of  Malachi.   Moroni  said,  if  I  remember  correctly, 

Behold,  I  will  reveal  unto  you  the  Priesthood,  by  the  hand  of  Elijah 
the  prophet,  before  the  coming  of  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord. 

And  he  shall  plant  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  the  promises  made 
to  the  fathers,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children  shall  turn  to  their  fathers. 

If  it  were  not  so — 

— and  this  is  the  greatest  part  of  this  revelation, 

If  it  were  not  so,  the  whole  earth  would  be  utterly  wasted  at  his 
coming.  (D.  &  C.  2:3.) 

That  is  the  power  that  belongs  to  the  Church,  to  the  priesthood, 
to  those  who  walk  in  truth  and  light.  It  is  the  power  that  holds  the 
earth's  events  together,  that  makes  possible  the  accomplishment  of 
God's  purposes  in  these  latter-days. 

Importance  of  Temple  Work 

I  trust  that  we  all,  as  has  been  advised  here  today,  seek  to  win 
the  power  that  flows  out  of  the  temples  of  the  Lord,  by  giving  some 
of  our  time  and  means  to  genealogy  and  temple  work.  Thereby 
strength  will  come  to  us,  for  the  temples  are  places  of  revelation. 
They  are  the  places  around  which  the  Saints  have  always  gathered 
and  will  do  so,  more  and  more,  in  the  days  to  come. 

I  bear  testimony  to  the  truth  of  this  work,  to  its  accompanying 
light,  to  its  great  accompanying  power,  and  thank  the  Lord  for  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  restored  in  these  days.  I  pray  that  all  of 
us  may  get  some  measure  of  the  exquisite  joy  and  happiness  that 
come  to  those  who  accept  the  truth  and  live  its  principles,  who  sur- 
render to  it.  God  be  with  us  all  and  bless  us,  bless  all  who  labor 
in  this  great  cause.  May  the  work  grow  and  increase  until  it  shall 
cover  the  earth  with  its  truth  and  light  and  power,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  WILLIAM  H.  REEDER,  JR. 

Former  President  of  the  New  England  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  very  happy  to  be  present  on  this 
occasion,  although  I  am  not  too  happy  at  standing  before  you. 

I  would  not  feel  good  if  I  did  not  express  to  you  the  deep  joy  and 
satisfaction  I  feel  in  attending  these  conferences,  and  as  it  were, 
sitting  at  the  feet  of  the  servants  of  the  living  God  and  listening  to 
their  instructions  and  encouragement.  We  have  enjoyed  a  great 
outpouring  of  the  Spirit  and  received  an  abundance  of  sound  doc- 
trine, and  I  am  sure  that  those  who  are  anxious  to  be  faithful  to 


150  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday.  April  6  Third  Dag 

their  responsibilities  will  strive  to  carry  out  what  we  have  been 
told  today. 

It  seems  strange  and  a  little  bit  improper  to  be  here  today  re- 
porting on  the  New  England  Mission  after  being  away  from  it  for 
nearly  a  year.  We  were  released  last  May  after  five  and  one- 
half  years  of  service.  But  I  do  want  to  express  to  you  the  the  grati- 
tude I  feel,  and  my  wife  likewise,  at  having  had  the  opportunity  of 
serving  in  the  mission  field  and  preaching  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
to  our  fellow  men.  It  was  a  grand  and  glorious  experience;  but  we 
are  happy  to  be  home. 

I  want  to  pay  tribute  to  my  wife,  for  the  splendid  work  she 
did  in  the  mission  field.  I  served  before  the  days  when  mission 
presidents  had  counselors,  but  in  her  I  had  a  faithful  and  wise  coun- 
selor, and  a  faithful  and  willing  helper.  We  strove,  at  all  times,  to  do 
things  together,  and  much  of  our  traveling  and  service  was  done 
together.  She  was  a  loyal  and  wonderful  companion.  She  has 
now  been  called  to  an  important  position  in  the  Church.  It  is  an 
honor  to  her  and  to  me,  too.  I  am  sure  she  did  not  seek  it.  In 
fact,  I  know  she  did  not;  and  that  if  her  wishes  had  been  observed 
she  would  not  have  received  the  call;  but  now  that  it  has  come  to 
her,  I  know  that  she  will  give  the  position  the  best  that  she  has. 
She  will  work  hard  at  it,  and  I  assure  you  that  she  will  have  my 
support,  such  as  I  can  give  her. 

We  had  a  wonderful  lot  of  missionaries  in  that  five  and  one- 
half  years,  and  I  want  to  publicly  express  my  gratitude  to  them 
for  the  faithful  service  they  performed  under  us;  and  to  their  par- 
ents and  other  loved  ones  who  afforded  them  that  opportunity. 
They  rendered  a  great  service  and  the  effects  of  that  service  will 
be  felt  for  many  years  to  come. 

I  want  to  say  that  in  the  New  England  Mission  we  have  a  lot 
of  faithful,  loyal  and  valiant  members  of  the  Church,  who  are  a 
credit  to  the  Church.  They  have  assisted  in  advancing  the  cause 
of  the  Church,  and  with  their  help  the  Church  has  grown  in  the 
New  England  Mission.  I  have  seen  some  of  them,  here  in  this 
Conference,  for  whom  I  have  the  greatest  love  and  respect  because 
of  the  creditable  manner  in  which  they  devoted  themselves  to  the 
service  to  which  they  were  called. 

I  think  I  owe  it  to  our  beloved  President  to  tell  you  that  his 
son,  George  Albert,  Jr.,  is  a  faithful,  loyal  and  dependable  member 
of  the  Church  in  Cambridge,  Massachusetts.  In  the  Cambridge 
Branch,  he  is  one  of  the  bulwarks.  During  all  of  the  time  that  I 
served  as  Mission  President,  he  was  engaged  in  some  teaching 
of  the  members.  It  was  a  source  of  great  satisfaction  to  see  the 
students  in  those  great  educational  institutions  flock  to  his  classes 
to  listen  to  his  instruction  on  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  He  has  attained  some  eminence  by  the  sheer  force  of  his 
own  efforts  and  personality  and  is,  today,  the  Assistant  Dean  of 


ELDER  WILLIAM  H.  REEDER,  JR. 


151 


the  Harvard  School  of  Business  Administration,  perhaps  the  greatest 
school  of  its  kind  in  the  world.   He  is  honored  and  respected. 

If  it  were  my  prerogative  to  preach  a  sermon,  I  should 
like  to  cry  out  against  the  hypocrisy  that  seems  to  prevail  among 
some  of  our  members.  I  am  sure  there  is  no  greater  offense 
against  the  Holy  Ghost  than  insincerity,  inconsistency,  and  hypoc- 
risy. The  Savior  denounced  it  most  vehemently.  It  does  not  get 
any  of  us — who  do  not  practice  what  we  preach  and  profess  to 
be — anywhere  or  anything.  Those  who  are  true  and  loyal  are  the 
ones  who  reap  the  benefits,  not  only  the  direct  benefits  of  blessings 
that  come  through  obedience  to  the  principles  to  the  gospel,  but 
also  the  incidental  benefits.  I  want  to  tell  you  a  little  story. 

One  of  our  members  in  the  Branch  of  Cambridge  was  out  of 
a  job.  He  responded  to  an  advertisement  in  the  newspaper  and 
went  to  one  of  the  great  manufacturing  institutions  of  the  area  on 
the  day  appointed,  and  there  he  found  twenty-five  or  thirty  other 
young  men  seeking  the  same  job.  A  questionnaire  was  handed  out 
to  them,  and  he  answered  it,  disclosing  qualifications  which  were 
required  for  the  position.  And  then,  at  the  bottom  of  the  question- 
naire, there  was  this  question:  "What  Church  do  you  belong  to?" 
He  said  he  scratched  his  head  and  thought  if  he  told  the  whole  truth 
he  would  not  get  the  job,  so  first  he  decided  to  put  "L.D.S.  Church," 
and  then  he  concluded  that  that  would  require  some  explanation 
that  would  elicit  the  truth  and  so  he  thought,  "Oh,  well,  I  am  a 
Mormon  and  why  not  say  so."  And  so  he  wrote  in  that  column 
"Mormon."  The  questionnaires  were  gathered  up  and  taken  in  to 
the  manager  and  in  a  little  while  a  young  lady  came  to  the  door 
and  asked  this  young  man  to  come  in.  He  said  he  could  not  under- 
stand why  he  got  the  first  invitation  for  an  interview.  When  he  got 
inside  the  manager  talked  to  him  casually  for  a  little  while,  then 
finally  he  said,  "Do  you  keep  the  word  of  wisdom?"  The  young 
man  said,  "Yes,  why?"  The  manager  said,  "Do  you  pay  your 
tithing?"  The  young  man  said,  "Yes,  why?"  "Well,"  the  manager 
said,  "I  was  in  Salt  Lake  City  some  time  ago,  and  I  was  introduced 
to  President  Grant  and  in  his  office  he  and  other  men,  treated  us 
cordially  and  explained  some  of  the  striking  features  of  the  Mor- 
mon Church.  And,"  he  said,  "I  will  never  forget  what  I  was  told 
about  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  tithing.  And,"  he  said,  "Young 
man,  if  you  are  that  loyal  to  your  Church,  twenty-five  hundred 
miles  away  from  its  headquarters,  you  will  be  loyal  to  us.  You  are 
the  kind  of  man  we  want  in  our  employ,  and  the  job  is  yours  if  you 
want  it."  He  was  happy  to  accept  the  position  and  was  instru- 
mental, thereafter,  in  securing  positions  for  quite  a  number  of  our 
young  folks  in  that  locality  who  needed  employment.  Now,  there 
is  one  of  the  incidental  blessings  that  followed  obedience  to  the 
principles  and  practices  and  standards  of  the  Church.  All  of  us 
ought  to  want  those  blessings,  but  we  will  forfeit  them  if  we  are 
not  faithful  and  obedient. 


152  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday.  April  6  Third  Day 

I  know  that  this  is  the  Church  of  God.  I  am  happy  to  be  ac- 
tive in  it,  and  hope  I  shall  remain  so  all  the  days  of  my  life.  I  found 
great  joy  in  being  acquainted  with  these  wonderful  men.  No  finer 
men  exist  anywhere  in  the  world,  whose  aims  and  purposes  and 
attitudes  are  cleaner  and  more  wholesome  and  more  beneficial  to 
their  associates  than  is  the  case  with  these  men.  It  is  a  joy  to  know 
them  and  to  associate  with  them,  and  I  want  to  strive  to  remain  as 
close  as  possible  all  the  days  of  my  life  to  men  who  exert  that  kind 
of  influence  upon  their  fellow  men. 

I  have  never  heard  a  single  expression  from  the  mouths  of  any 
one  of  these  men  that  would  have  a  tendency  to  lead  any  one  of  us 
astray  or  into  unrighteous  paths.  They  are  always  telling  us  to 
live  good  lives  and  be  faithful  members  of  the  Church  and  be 
obedient  to  the  gospel  plan  of  Jesus  Christ.  God  bless  them,  and 
God  bless  us  and  help  us  to  be  faithful  and  loyal  and  consistent, 
and  avoid  all  forms  of  hypocrisy  and  be  real  "livers"  of  our  religion 
instead  of  just  "professors,"  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

This  conference  has  certainly  been  a  great  inspiration  to  me. 
I  am  grateful  for  the  strength  that  I  have  received  from  my  brethren 
as  they  have  talked  to  me  and  to  you.  I  am  very  glad  that  the  Lord 
has  blessed  them  so,  and  I  hope  that  he  will  bless  me  as  he  has 
blessed  them. 

Gratitude  for  Faith  of  Youth 

I  have  been  more  than  happy  with  the  participation  of  the  young 
people  in  this  conference.  Like  you,  I  was  thrilled  in  my  soul  by  the 
singing  of  the  Brigham  Young  University  chorus,  yesterday;  by  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  chorus  in  our  priesthood  meeting  last  night,  and 
now  again,  by  the  singing  of  these  wonderful  young  people  from 
Ricks  College.  I  am  glad  for  them.  As  I  have  visited  the  various 
stakes  and  met  with  your  young  people  in  firesides  and  other  meet- 
ings, I  have  been  everlastingly  grateful  for  them.  I  am  glad  for  their 
strength,  for  their  faith,  and  their  devotion,  and  I  have  a  feeling  of 
confidence  that  in  the  years  to  come,  when  the  affairs  of  the  Church 
are  given  into  their  hands,  that  all  will  be  well. 

I  realize  that  there  are  many  pitfalls  in  the  paths  of  our  young 
people,  and  some  fall  into  those  pitfalls,  and  for  them  we  grieve. 
With  this  in  mind,  I  would  like  to  direct  my  remarks  more  particu- 
larly to  the  young  people,  and  I  desire  to  talk  about  cigarets. 

Revelation  on  Use  of  Tobacco 
I  wonder,  young  people  of  the  Church,  if  you  have  ever  serious- 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


153 


ly  thought  about  what  a  cigaret  means  to  a  Latter-day  Saint.  It 
means  more  to  us  than  it  does  to  other  people.  I  know  that  some  of 
you  will  say  that  you  do  not  see  why,  that  you  have  friends  in  other 
churches  who  smoke,  and  they  seem  to  get  along  all  right,  and  their 
churches  do  not  criticize  them  for  it,  and  you  do  not  see  why  our 
Church  takes  the  attitude  it  does  on  this  subject.  Just  remember,  if 
you  will,  that  the  Lord  has  not  spoken  to  your  young  friends  in  the 
other  churches,  nor  to  the  heads  of  their  churches,  giving  them  any 
divine  revelation  directing  them  to  abstain  from  these  harmful 
things.  In  their  churches  they  do  not  even  accept  the  principle  of 
modern  revelation. 

But  with  us,  it  is  entirely  different.  God  has  spoken  to  us  by 
his  latter-day  prophets.  He  has  given  us  modern-day  revelation, 
declaring  that  tobacco  is  not  good  for  man.  That  is  the  word  and  the 
will  of  the  Lord  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Whenever  we  turn  our 
backs  upon  that  principle,  to  that  extent  we  turn  our  backs  upon 
the  Lord. 

The  average  young  American  is  an  individual  who  loves  free- 
dom, wants  to  be  his  own  boss,  and  does  not  like  to  have  other  peo- 
ple regulate  his  life  for  him.  But  some  of  them  misunderstand  their 
independence,  and  in  a  spirit  of  misunderstanding  say,  "Well,  if  1 
want  to  take  a  smoke,  that  is  my  business.  I  have  a  perfect  right 
to.  It  is  a  free  country,  isn't  it?"  But  in  submitting  to  the  enslaving 
influence  of  nicotine,  they  contribute  to  a  loss  of  the  very  freedom 
they  talk  about. 

Cigaret  Habit  Determines  Course  of  Life 

If  you  adopt  the  cigaret  habit,  it  will,  in  large  measure  determine 
the  kind  of  life  you  are  going  to  live,  the  kind  of  friends  you  will  have, 
the  kind  of  person  you  are  going  to  marry,  even  the  kind  of  children 
you  may  have.  Do  you  regard  that  as  an  extreme  statement?  Let  us 
think  about  it  for  a  few  moments. 

If,  at  your  house,  you  happen  to  take  a  newspaper  or  a  magazine 
which  carries  cigaret  advertising,  and  those  alluring  advertisements 
tempt  you  to  smoke  and  try  to  make  you  think  that  it  is  smart  to  puff 
on  a  cigaret,  and  if  you  fall  for  that  temptation,  what  is  the  first  thing 
you  do? 

You  brush  to  one  side  all  the  teachings  of  your  parents,  your 
Church,  and  your  friends  who  love  you.  Instead,  you  take  the  advice 
of  a  tobacco  merchant  who  has  no  more  interest  in  you  than  to  get 
what  money  he  can  out  of  you  by  making  you  a  slave  to  his  product. 
And  then,  you  tell  yourself,  "I  think  I  will  buy  some  cigarets."  And 
so,  with  a  guilty  conscience,  and  feeling  as  if  the  eyes  of  the  whole 
world  are  upon  you,  you  go  and  buy  your  first  package  of  cigarets. 
Then,  you  wonder  where  you  are  going  to  smoke  them.  You  do  not 
want  to  smoke  them  in  front  of  your  parents  because  you  know  it  is 
wrong,  and  you  know  it  would  break  their  hearts.  You  do  not  want 
to  smoke  in  front  of  your  non-smoking  friends  because  you  know 


154  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday.  April  6  Third  Day 

what  they  would  tell  you.  And  so,  you  go  some  place  where  neither 
your  friends  nor  your  parents  can  see  you.  Then  you  open  the  package, 
and  you  take  out  that  first  cigaret,  put  it  in  your  mouth  and  light  it. 
Then  you  make  a  great  discovery:  You  find  out  that  by  sucking  on 
one  end  of  that  cigaret,  with  the  light  on  the  other,  you  can  actually 
get  smoke  out  of  it;  and  having  read  what  you  have  in  the  adverise- 
ments,  and  having  puffed  away  on  that  cigaret,  the  whole  operation 
inflates  your  ego.  So  you  throw  back  your  head,  and  you  blow  the 
smoke  in  the  air,  and  you  say,  "Well,  I  really  must  be  somebody," 

Smokers  Associate  With  Smokers 

You  want  to'  smoke  some  more,  inasmuch  as  you  have  fallen  for 
that  temptation,  but  you  do  not  want  to  do  it  in  private  all  the  time, 
and  you  do  not  want  to  be  the  only  smoker  in  a  non-smoking  crowd, 
so  you  seek  out  other  people  who  smoke,  so  you  can  smoke  with  them. 
It  may  be  that  you  already  have  some  smoking  friends  and  that  they 
were  the  ones  who  provided  those  first  cigarets  and  that  you  began 
to  smoke  with  them.  In  either  case,  you  begin  breaking  off  your  con- 
nections with  your  non-smoking  friends  and  start  to  form  your  asso- 
ciates among  smokers.  And  in  this  way,  your  cigarets  begin  to  choose 
your  friends  for  you. 

One  of  the  very  difficult  things  about  this  is  that  the  habits  of 
smokers  so  often  do  not  stop  with  smoking,  but  they  include  drinking 
and  unwise  partying,  as  well.  And  when  you  start  going  with  people 
who  do  those  things,  it  will  not  be  very  long  before  you  are  doing  the 
same  things  they  are,  and  in  that  way  the  cigaret  lays  the  foundation 
on  which  you  form  other  evil  habits. 

Cigaret  User  Stays  Away  from  Church 

If  you  are  going  to  be  a  smoker,  you  realize  that  you  are  breaking 
one  of  the  commandments  of  God,  and  you  do  not  feel  good  about  it. 
You  know  that  over  in  the  ward  they  speak  about  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom every  once  in  a  while  and  now  that  you  are  a  smoker  you  do  not 
like  to  hear  about  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  You  have  heard  about  it 
all  your  life,  and  you  do  not  want  your  conscience  to  hurt  you  any 
more  than  it  already  does,  so  tell  yourself  you  had  better  stay 
away  from  your  meetings.  You  begin  to  realize  that  for  a  Latter- 
day  Saint,  worship  and  smoking  just  do  not  go  together.  And  so 
the  cigaret  persuades  you  to  stay  away  from  church. 

When  you  were  small,  your  parents  taught  you  to  pray,  and  you 
prayed  with  more  or  less  regularity  all  your  life.  But  now  that  you 
are  a  smoker,  you  feel  out  of  harmony  with  the  Lord  and  you  hesti- 
tate  to  go  to  him  in  prayer. 

Cigarets  Undermine  Faith 

You  begin  to  discover  that,  for  a  Latter-day  Saint,  cigarets  un- 
dermine faith  and  interfere  with  prayer.  And  as  a  child  who  has  been 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN  155 


hurt  avoids  the  instruments  which  hurt  him,  so  you  with  a  smarting 
conscience  shy  away  from  your  religious  duties.  You  have  come  to 
know  that  spirituality  and  smoking  are  incompatible.  And  so  the  cig- 
aret  persuades  you  to  stop  praying. 

Your  parents  also  taught  you  to  pay  tithing  on  everything  you 
earned,  but  now  that  you  do  not  go  to  church  very  often  and  you  are 
not  very  proud  of  your  Church  connections,  you  stop  paying  your 
tithing.  "What  is  the  use?"  you  ask  yourself.  You  say,  "This  tithing 
money  itself  would  buy  quite  a  few  cigarets;  they  cost  real  money 
these  days."  Rather  an  expensive  habit  you  have  picked  up!  And  so 
the  cigaret  persuades  you  to  stop  paying  your  tithing. 

When  you  get  old  enough  to  get  married,  you  ask  yourself, 
"Whom  shall  I  marry?"  If  you  are  a  boy  you  say,  "Will  it  be  Helen 
or  Jane  or  Elizabeth?"  And  if  you  are  a  girl,  you  ask  yourself,  "Will 
it  be  Tom  or  Dick  or  Harry?"  And  then  you  tell  yourself  that  you 
like  Tom  better  than  Harry,  and  Jane  better  than  Elizabeth.  And 
why  do  you  like  them  better?  Because  you  know  them  better.  And 
how  did  you  get  to  know  them  better?  Because  they  are  in  the 
crowd  you  go  with;  you  know,  the  smoking  crowd.  And  they 
do  the  things  that  you  do.  They  are  like  you.  Why,  you  would 
not  even  think  of  marrying  one  of  your  former  friends  in  the  non- 
smoking crowd.  How  ridiculous!  Why,  he  would  not  smoke  with 
you — would  not  even  take  a  cocktail,  and  he  would  not  neck,  and 
he  would  not  pet,  and  he  would  not  party  around.  Why,  you  would 
not  marry  one  of  them!  You  are  going  to  marry  one  of  your  own 
crowd.  And  then,  if  you  want  to  sit  down  together  and  smoke  to- 
gether you  can,  and  there  is  no  embarrassment — so  you  tell  yourself. 
There  is  nobody  to  get  after  you  if  you  fill  the  house  full  of  tobacco 
smoke,  and  no  one  to  nag  at  you  if  your  cigaret  burns  a  hole  in  the 
overstuffed,  or  if  you  drop  hot  ashes  on  the  new  rug.  So  your  cigaret 
has  helped  to  choose  the  kind  of  person  you  marry. 

WORLDLINESS  IN  HOME  LlFE 

What  kind  of  home  will  you  have?  There  will  not  be  much 
faith  in  it,  because  the  cigarets  have  already  undermined  your  faith. 
And  you  will  not  say  very  many  prayers  because  the  cigarets  have 
taken  care  of  that  too.  And  there  will  not  be  much  Church  activity 
in  your  house,  because  the  cigarets  have  checked  that  off  also.  So 
you  will  have  a  worldly  home  with  precious  little  of  spirituality  in  it. 
Is  that  really  the  kind  of  home  you  want? 

Will  you  have  any  children  in  that  home?  If  you  are  like  many 
of  the  smoking  young  people  of  today,  you  will  not  have  any  chil- 
dren. One  of  them  recently  said,  "Why  a  squawking  kid  would 
cramp  my  style!  Do  you  think  I  am  going  to  stay  up  and  walk  the 
floor  in  the  middle  of  the  night  with  a  squealing  baby  in  my  arms? 
None  of  that  for  me."  And  so  the  cigaret  may  help  to  rob  you  of 
one  of  the  greatest  blessings  that  God  gives  us  in  this  life:  The 
privilege  of  having  little  children. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


But  suppose  by  some  chance  you  do  have  children — what  will 
they  be  like?  Why,  they  will  be  just  like  you.  They  will  not  be- 
lieve very  much  in  God,  because  you  will  not  make  religion  very  im- 
portant in  their  lives.  They  will  not  say  very  many  prayers  because 
you  will  not  teach  them  how.  And  they  will  not  go  to  Church  much 
because  you  do  not.  And  when  they  get  a  little  older,  they  will  ac- 
quire the  other  habits  that  you  have,  and  they  will  be  just  about  like 
you.  So  the  cigaret  determines  in  large  measure  the  kind  of  children 
you  will  have. 

Do  you  not  see,  young  people  of  the  Church,  how  the  cigarets 
can  mark  out  your  life  for  you — point  the  path  for  you  to  follow? 
Are  you,  as  young  Americans,  willing  to  surrender  to  the  tyranny 
of  a  cigaret?  Are  you  willing  to  allow  a  cigaret  to  determine  in  such 
large  measure  the  kind  of  life  you  are  going  to  live?  Are  you  going 
to  allow  a  cigaret  to  choose  the  kind  of  friends  you  have,  the  kind 
of  person  you  will  marry — even  the  kind  of  children  you  may  have? 
Are  you,  as  a  young  Latter-day  Saint,  willing  to  allow  a  cigaret  to 
determine  your  attitude  toward  God? 


Let  me  ask  you  one  other  thing:  What  do  you  think  of  religion, 
anyway?  Is  it  worth  while?  Is  it  worth  the  trouble  we  go  to?  Does 
it  do  any  good  in  the  world?   Or  would  we  be  better  off  without  it? 

I  once  read  an  advertisement  which  asked  this  question:  "How 
would  you  like  to  live  in  a  town  in  which  there  were  no  churches?" 
And  then  it  listed  the  crime  and  the  violence  and  the  debauchery  and 
the  filth  and  the  heartbreak  and  the  sorrow  and  the  disappointment 
associated  with  persons  who  reject  the  soul-elevating,  character- 
building  influence  of  true  religion.  Would  you  like  to  live  in  a 
town  in  which  there  were  no  churches?  Bring  it  right  down  to  your 
own  case  and  ask  yourself  about  it.  Would  you  like  to  live  a  life 
in  which  there  was  no  religion?  Do  you  really  want  the  degrading 
influence  of  the  irreligious?  That  influence  is  just  as  deadly  for  an 
individual  as  it  is  for  a  whole  town. 

Choose  for  yourself:  Do  you  want  to  live  a  life  without  God? 
The  cigaret  would  like  you  to.  But  remember,  you  can  never  live 
successfully  without  the  Lord.    So  many  have  tried,  and  all  have 


And  so  I  come  back  to  the  question  with  which  I  began:  Have 
you  ever  really  considered  what  a  cigaret  means  to  a  Latter-day 
Saint?  You  who  smoke  now,  do  not  make  the  mistake  of  supposing 
that  the  Church  is  against  you,  because  it  is  not.  It  only  desires  your 
welfare,  and  it  hopes  and  prays  for  the  day  when  you  will  declare 
your  independence  from  the  slavery  of  nicotine.  And  you  who  do 
not  smoke,  before  you  take  that  first  cigaret  ask  yourself,  "Will  it 
help  me  or  hurt  me?"  Think  it  over  carefully,  and  may  God  guide 
you  in  your  thinking,  I  earnestly  pray  for  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


The  Value  of  Religion 


failed. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  157 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

It  falls-  to  my  lot  as  the  President  of  the  Church  to  make  some 
concluding  remarks. 

I  would  like  to  ask  all  of  you,  could  you  imagine  any  other  place 
that  we  could  have  been  during  the  past  three  days,  where  we  would 
have  been  nearer  to  our  Heavenly  Father  than  we  have  in  this  great 
conference?  Is  there  any  place  in  the  world  where  you  could  gather 
together  a  group  of  men  who,  one  after  another,  would  stand  on  their 
feet  and  bear  witness  that  they  know  the  gospel  is  here  and  that  we 
are  partakers  of  it  and  testify  of  the  blessings  that  result  from  keeping 
the  commandments  of  our  Heavenly  Father? 

Smoker  Fails  to  Get  Job 

The  brethren  have  reminded  me  of  one  or  two  little  incidents  that 
I  think  I  will  relate.  One  has  to  do  with  a  cigaret.  One  of  our  mission- 
aries who  filled  a  good  mission  came  home  and  sought  employment 
and  was  unable  to  find  it  here.  He  had  been  a  smoker  before  he  went 
on  his  mission,  but  he  had  quit,  so  when  he  came  back  and  became  a 
little  bit  discouraged,  he  took  up  his  habit  of  smoking  again.  About 
that  time  a  non-Latter-day  Saint  businessman  spoke  to  one  of  the 
prominent  men  of  the  Church,  also  in  business,  and  said,  "I  need  a 
man  to  come  into  my  business,  one  that  is  capable  and  able  to  grow 
to  take  my  place,  because  I  want  to  retire  after  a  while.  I  can  pay 
him  a  good  salary,  and  I  have  concluded  that,  while  I  am  not  a  member 
of  your  Church,  I  would  like  to  have  one  of  your  returned  mission- 
aries. They  have  had  such  wonderful  experiences,  many  of  them.  I've 
heard  some  of  them  talk.  If  one  of  them  comes  home  and  you  know 
of  him,  you  don't  need  to  tell  him  what  it  is  all  about,  just  send  him 
to  me  with  the  understanding  that  there  may  be  a  position.  I'd  like  to 
interrogate  him." 

Not  long  after  that  the  young  man  who  had  been  seeking  work 
visited  the  office  of  the  brother  who  told  me  this  story.  He  said  to  the 
young  man:  "I  think  I  know  where  you  can  find  employment."  He 
sent  the  returned  missionary  to  the  individual  who  had  told  him  with- 
out hesitation  what  he  wanted.  This  returned  missionary  was  a  fine, 
intelligent,  young  fellow,  and  he  supposed  it  meant  a  job  for  him. 

Our  Church  businessman  said,  "I  met  the  young  applicant  on  the 
street  two  or  three  days  after,  and  asked  him,  'How  did  you  come 
out?"  The  young  man  said,  'I  didn't  succeed.  The  man  asked  me  a 
few  questions  and  then  remarked,  "I  think  we  had  better  not  try  it 
out  together." 

Sometime  later  the  two  businessmen  met,  and  the  member  asked 
the  non-member  why  the  young  man  had  not  been  employed.  He  re- 
plied, "When  the  missionary  came  into  my  office,  he  told  me  you  had 
sent  him.  I  thought  to  myself,  this  is  my  opportunity.  He  was  a  fine- 
looking  young  fellow  and  appeared  satisfactory  to  me.  As  he  entered 
the  office,  I  was  smoking  my  pipe,  and  all  at  once  he  took  a  cigaret 


158  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday.  April  6  Third  Dag 

out  of  his  pocket  and  lit  it,  and  we  started  to  talk.  I  said  to  him,  'I 
thought  you  were  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.'  He  replied,  'I  am,'  and  I  said,  'I  thought  you  were  a  re- 
turned missionary.'  'I  am,'  he  answered. 

"  'I'm  sorry,  I  wanted  just  such  an  individual  as  I  thought  you 
might  be,  but  what  are  you  smoking  for?'  and  the  young  man  said, 
'You  are  smoking;  why  shouldn't  I  smoke?'  I  said,  "The  difference  is 
this :  You  have  been  taught  that  it  is  not  a  proper  thing  to  smoke;  I 
was  never  taught  that.  You  are  violating  the  advice  and  desires  of 
those  who  love  you,  and  I  think  there  is  no  use  discussing  this  matter 
any  further.  I  will  just  say  that  I  haven't  any  position  ready  for  you, 
and  we'll  part.'  " 

That  young  man  lost  a  fine  position  because  he  had  that  filthy 
habit,  and  that's  the  only  word  I  can  think  of  just  now  that  exactly 
fills  the  bill. 

Returned  Missionary  Who  Lacked  Courage  of  Conviction 

Another  instance  that  may  be  of  interest:  one  of  our  missionaries 
returned  from  the  Eastern  States  where  he  had  become  acquainted 
with  a  shop  foreman  in  a  large  manufacturing  establishment,  and  after 
returning  home  he  tried  for  some  time  to  secure  employment  but  was 
not  successful.  Finally  he  said  to  himself,  "Well,  I  believe  if  I  go 
back  East,  my  friend  there  will  give  me  a  job." 

He  was  a  very  fine,  capable  young  fellow,  but  the  friend  that  he 
spoke  of  did  not  know  that  he  was  a  member  of  the  Church.  So  when 
he  went  to  him  and  said,  "I've  come  back.  I  wonder  if  you  will  give 
me  something  to  do?"  the  foreman  said,  "Certainly  I  will;  come  right 
in."  So  the  young  man  began  work  in  the  very  city  where  he  had  been 
laboring  as  a  missionary.  He  avoided  the  members  of  the  Church;  he 
didn't  go  to'  meeting;  he  kept  away  from  them  because  he  was  afraid 
the  men  who  employed  him  who  were  not  members  of  the  Church 
would  not  give  him  the  same  kind  of  opportunity  for  advancement  if 
they  knew  who  he  was.  But  he  was  a  good  worker  and  kept  at  it  for 
.some  time. 

One  day,  after  he  had  been  there  about  three  months,  the  shop 
foreman  called  him  and  said,  "You  had  better  go  upstairs;  the  presi- 
dent wants  to  see  you."  The  president  had  told  the  shop  foreman  that 
he  needed  a  young  man  for  another  department  who  had  ability.  He 
wanted  a  young  man  with  a  good  education.  He  said,  "Look  around, 
and  if  you  can  find  such  a  man  as  that,  let  me  know." 

The  foreman  replied,  "We  have  just  such  a  man  working  for  us 
right  now." 

"Already  in  our  employ?"  the  president  asked. 
"Yes." 

The  president  said,  "That  pleases  me.  Send  him  up  to  see  me." 
So  the  young  man,  not  knowing  what  the  circumstances  were  re- 
ported to  the  president's  office  and  said,  "I  understand,  Mr.  Grant, 
that  you  want  to  speak  to  me." 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  159 


He  answered,  "Yes.  Have  you  been  sent  up  by  the  shop  fore- 
man?" 

The  young  man  replied,  "Yes,  sir." 

"Please  sit  down.  I  want  to  know  something  about  you;  I'd 
like  to  know  where  you  are  from." 

"Well,"  the  young  man  said,  "I  live  away  out  in  the  Rocky 
Mountains."    That  was  the  first  hedge. 

"But,  what  part  of  the  Rocky  Mountains?" 

"Well,"  he  replied,  "not  very  far  from  Idaho." 

"But  what  are  you  doing  here?" 

"Well,"  he  said,  "I'm  here  working  as  one  of  your  employees." 

"Were  you  ever  here  before?" 

;;Yes." 

"Do  you  know  anybody  here  in  the  city?" 
"Not  very  many,  just  two  or  three." 

"Well,  I  don't  quite  understand  why  you  came  back  here  for 
employment." 

I  want  to  say  before  going  any  further,  the  president  knew  all 
about  this  boy.  He  had  had  somebody  check  his  record,  and  so 
when  he  kept  hedging,  the  president  asked,  "But  who  are  your 
friends  here?" 

"Oh,"  he  replied,  "they're  just  people  that  work  around  town." 
"But,"  the  president  continued,  "do  you  belong  to  any  church?" 
"Well,  not  here." 

"Did  you  ever  belong  to  a  church?" 

He  said,  "Yes,  I  did  at  one  time,"  and  he  began  to  be  afraid  the 
president  did  know  who  he  was,  and  he  didn't  want  him  to  find  out 
now,  so  he  kept  on  hedging  and  said,  "At  one  time  I  was  a  member 
of  a  church,  but  I  didn't  take  much  interest  in  it,  and  I'm  not  doing 
much  at  it  now." 

"What  church  was  it?" 

"Well,  you'd  call  it  the  Mormon  Church." 

The  president  said,  "Do  you  mean  to  tell  me  that  you  are  a  son 
of  a  Mormon  family?" 

The  boy  knew  the  jig  was  up  with  him  then;  so  he  answered, 
"Yes,  sir." 

The  president  queried,  "Do  you  mean  to  tell  me  that  you  would 
desert  the  faith  of  your  parents,  when  you  had  known  that  they 
were  Mormons  and  desired  you  to  be  one?" 

"Well,  not  exactly  that." 

"I'm  afraid,"  the  president  said,  "you're  not  much  credit  to  them. 
If  you  haven't  the  courage  to  stand  up  for  your  faith,  what  good  are 
you?  Now,"  he  said,  "I  will  be  plain  with  you.  I  thought  you  were 
the  man  I  was  seeking  for  this  position,  but  I  want  to  say  to  you  that 
if  you  would  betray  your  parents  and  go  back  on  the  Church  you 
belong  to,  I'd  be  afraid  to  give  you  any  kind  of  a  job  where  you  have 
to  handle  money."   And  so  the  young  man  lost  his  opportunity  be- 


160  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

cause  he  did  not  have  the  courage  to  do  his  duty  by  his  Church  and 
his  family. 

These  things  happen  so  many  times;  while  on  the  contrary  our 
boys  and  girls  who  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  and  ob- 
serve the  advice  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  need  not  be  afraid  any- 
where. 

Advantages  of  Church  Membership 

I  have  traveled  considerably  in  the  world,  myself.  I  have 
covered  approximately  a  million  miles.  I  have  been  in  the  homes  of 
the  rich  and  the  poor,  in  many  parts  of  the  world,  and  I  never  have 
found  one  instance  among  the  better  class  of  people  where  I  have 
been,  where  if  they  knew  I  was  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  it  was  any  detriment  to  me.  But  I  have 
known  many  cases  where  it  has  opened  the  way  and  offered  op- 
portunity that  I  couldn't  have  had  before.  You  know,  it  is  a  strange 
thing  that  it  is  possible  for  an  individual  to  belong  to  the  Church, 
not  just  a  church,  but  to  belong  to  the  Church,  to  have  had  a  witness 
and  a  testimony  that  the  Lord  himself  established  this  Church,  to 
know  that  he  spoke  by  the  power  that  he  had,  in  his  wisdom,  and 
gave  to  us  in  this  day  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  again,  and  to  belong 
to  just  such  an  organization.  No  other  church  in  the  world  makes 
such  a  claim  as  we  do.  When  I  see  this  wonderful  group  of  young 
folk,  behind  us  here,  and  the  choir,  and  those  that  we  had  from 
Provo  yesterday,  and  others  that  we  meet  all  the  time,  I  know  of  no 
other  place  in  the  world  where  you  can  find  such  young  people  as 
the  Lord  gives  to  us  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  Where  can  you  go,  in  all  the  world,  and  find  such  compan- 
ionship as  you  can  have  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints?  It  is  his  Church.  He  gave  it  his  name,  and  he  advised  us 
that  it  should  be  so  called.  Again  I  want  to  mention  that  fact  to 
some  of  our  brethren.  Don't  let  the  Lord  down  by  calling  this  the 
Mormon  Church.  He  didn't  call  it  the  Mormon  Church.  It  is  all 
right  for  us  to  believe  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  He  expects  us  to  do 
that,  but  he  told  us  what  to  call  this  Church.   The  Lord  has  said: 

The  Name  of  the  Church 

And  how  be  it  my  church  save  it  be  called  in  my  name?  For  if  a 
church  be  called  in  Moses'  name  then  it  be  Moses'  church;  or  if  it  be 
called  in  the  name  of  a  man  then  it  be  the  church  of  a  man;  but  if  it 
be  called  in  my  name  then  it  is  my  church,  if  it  so  be  that  they  are 
built  upon  my  gospel.  (Ill  Nephi  27:8.) 

This  is  bis  Church,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  sometimes  feel  disappointed  that  so  many  of  us  seem  to 
be  timid,  if  I  may  use  that  term,  and  give  this  Church  that  the  Lord 
has  permitted  us  to  be  identified  with  rather  a  casual  reference.  I 
am  so  proud  of  membership  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  when  I  think  that  all  the  blessings  of  the  world  may  be 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  161 


mine  as  a  member  of  his  Church,  and  if  I  were  not  a  member  how 
many  blessings  there  may  be  lost  for  me.  Think  of  the  wonderful 
people  in  the  world  and  in  all  these  various  churches.  I  want  to  tell 
you  that  there  are  thousands  of  them,  I  think  I  would  be  safe  in  say- 
ing millions  of  them  who,  if  they  knew  what  we  know  and  had  the 
testimony  that  God  has  given  to  us,  wouldn't  hesitate  to  join  the 
Church.  They  would  be  afraid  not  to  take  advantage  of  the  op- 
portunities that  he  has  given  to  us.  In  this  wonderful  conference 
where  we  have  been  assembled  the  past  three  days,  think  how  we 
have,  mingled  together.  I  have  shaken  hands  with  people  all  the 
way  from  Australia,  to  Portland,  Maine,  and  from  Europe  to 
Hawaii,  who  have  come  here,  happy  to  make  these  long  journeys, 
delighted  to  be  permitted  to  associate  and  to  shake  hands  with  the 
membership  of  this  Church. 

I  feel  it  is  a  great  compliment  to  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
that  so  many  of  you  find  in  the  lives  of  one  another  the  things  that 
make  you  proud  and  grateful  to  be  identified  with  this  organization. 
When  we  think  of  what  the  Lord  has  done  for  us — think  of  the  thou- 
sands of  our  young  men  and  women  who'  have  had  an  education  that 
they  could  obtain  in  no  other  way  except  in  the  missionary  field,  and 
that  we  have  more  than  four  thousand  out  in  the  world  today — what 
a  privilege  it  is!  This  is  not  a  Church  to  criticize,  to'  find  fault  with 
others.  The  Lord  doesn't  advise  us  or  counsel  us  to  make  it  uncom- 
fortable for  other  people  who  don't  understand,  but  the  Lord  in  every 
way  encourages  us  to  set  an  example  that  others  seeing  our  good  works 
will  be  constrained  to  glorify  his  name. 

Gratitude  for  Young  People 

I  am  so  proud  and  grateful  for  the  young  people  of  this  great 
organization  as  I  meet  them  in  different  parts  of  the  country,  and  I 
am  so  thankful  for  their  fathers  and  mothers  who  have  given  them 
the  training  that  encourages  them  to  pray  and  to  walk  uprightly  be- 
fore the  Lord,  encourages  them  to  avoid  bad  habits  and  not  partake 
of  things  that  otherwise  would  hurt  them.  Think  jof  it.  Do  you  realize, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  there  isn't  a  blessing,  a  real  blessing  in 
any  church  in  the  world  that  is  enjoyed  in  that  church  that  you  may 
not  enjoy  as  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints?  You  can't  think  of  a  thing  that  is  worth  while  in  preparation 
for  eternal  life  that  we  do  not  have  and  while  we  are  only  a  small  or- 
ganization compared  with  the  great  ones  in  the  world,  all  that  they 
have,  all  together,  that  is  necessary  for  eternal  life  in  the  celestial 
kingdom,  we  have,  plus  the  authority  of  our  Heavenly  Father  and 
the  promise  of  eternal  happiness  if  we  will  obey  his  commandments. 

This  is  not  a  man-made  organization.  It  is  not  just  a  small  fraternal 
department  in  this  great  world;  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  Think  what  that  means,  a  Church  of  the  Son  of 
God,  who  gave  his  life  that  we  might  live  again.  So  today  as  I  worship 
here  with  you  I  am  thankful  for  my  birthright,  thankful  for  parents 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


who  taught  me  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  set  the  example  in  their 
home.  If  I  did  anything  that  I  should  not  do  in  my  life,  it  would  be 
something  that  I  could  not  have  learned  in  my  mother's  home.  There 
were  sweetness  and  kindness  and  love  always.  With  a  large  family 
of  children  it  took  a  mother  with  a  good  deal  of  patience,  but  she  was 
always  patient  with  us. 


It  will  not  be  very  long,  in  the  natural  course  of  events,  till  the 
summons  that  took  Father  and  Mother  and  other  loved  ones  to  the 
other  side,  will  reach  me.  I  look  forward  to  that  time  with  pleasant 
anticipation.  I  have  lived  a  long  time,  as  contrasted  with  the  average 
of  human  beings,  and  I  have  had  a  happy  life.  I  can  think  of  nobody 
who  has  had  a  fuller  life  than  I  have  had,  and  I  don't  say  that  boast- 
fully, but  gratefully;  and  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  every  happiness 
and  every  joy  that  has  been  worthy  of  the  name  has  been  the  result 
of  keeping  the  commandments  of  God  and  observing  his  advice  and 
counsel.  So,  as  we  go  forward,  each  of  us,  each  having  an  influence 
with  our  neighbors  and  our  friends,  let  us  not  be  too  timid.  We  do 
not  need  to  annoy  people,  but  let  us  make  them  feel  and  understand 
that  we  are  interested,  not  in  making  them  members  of  the  Church 
for  membership,  but  in  bringing  them  into  the  Church  that  they  may 
enjoy  the  same  blessings  that  we  enjoy. 


This  world  is  in  a  critical  condition.  It  is  a  pitiable  situation  that 
faces  us,  and  not  anything  in  the  world  but  the  power  of  our  Heaven- 
ly Father  can  preserve  the  civilization  of  our  day  and  the  people  who 
live  upon  the  earth  at  the  present  time.  The  adversary  is  having 
his  innings  because  the  people  of  the  world  have  refused  to  listen 
to  their  Heavenly  Father.  Now  it  is  our  privilege,  not  only  to  set 
the  example  but  also  to  encourage  others  to  take  advantage  of  it. 
Nobody  knows,  when  we  pick  up  a  paper  today,  what  the  head- 
lines may  read.  So  many  lives  destroyed  here,  so  many  there,  some 
from  accident,  some  from  warfare,  some  from  wickedness,  and  the 
greatest  destruction  of  all  that  is  going  on  in  the  world  today  is  the 
result  of  immorality.  There  was  a  time,  as  we  have  been  reminded, 
when  the  people  of  Sodom  and  Gomorrah  could  not  produce,  in  those 
two  cities,  ten  individuals  who  were  worthy  to  live.  They  had  been 
so  wicked  that  they  were  not  fit  to  live  any  longer,  and  so  they  were 
consumed  by  fire. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  somebody  said  in  this  conference 
that  the  same  laws  apply,  the  same  rules  govern  today,  and  it  is  just 
as  necessary  for  us  to  keep  the  commandments  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  today  as  it  was  for  any  of  the  prophets  of  old  or  any  of  his 
faithful  sons  and  daughters  who  have  lived  upon  the  earth,  who  have 
earned  a  right  to  a  place  in  the  celestial  kingdom.    We  can't  gain 


Keeping  Commandments  Brings  Joy 


World  in  Critical  Condition 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  163 


our  exaltation  by  the  good  lives  of  our  neighbors,  but  we  can  profit 
by  their  good  example,  and  we  can  improve  ourselves. 

With  love  in  my  heart  for  every  one  of  you,  may  I  say  I  am 
grateful.  I  haven't  any  way  of  expressing  my  thanksgiving  to  the 
people  of  this  Church  and  many  people  out  of  the  Church,  where  I 
have  traveled  in  the  world,  for  their  kindnesses  to  me,  one  of  the 
humblest  of  our  Father's  sons.  I  wish  I  could  return  in  full  measure 
all  the  good  which  has  been  done  for  me  wherever  I  have  been. 

Riches  of  Eternal  Life 

And  now,  brothers  and  sisters,  it  is  not  so  important  how  many 
valuables  you  may  have,  how  much  property  you  may  possess,  and 
how  many  of  the  honors  of  men  you  may  acquire,  and  all  those 
things  that  are  so  desirable  in  the  world,  the  thing  that  God  has 
given  to  you  that  is  worth  more  than  all  the  rest  is  the  opportunity 
to  obtain  eternal  life  in  the  celestial  kingdom  and  have  as  your  com- 
panions, throughout  the  ages  of  eternity,  sons  and  daughters,  hus- 
bands and  wives  with  whom  you  have  associated  here  on  earth. 
That  is  what  the  Lord  teaches  us,  and  when  the  world  is  so  distressed 
and  uncertain,  we  ought  to  be  grateful,  we  ought  to  be  thankful  for 
our  blessings.  I  can  think  of  no  people  in  the  world  who  have  so 
much  reason  to  be  thankful  for  their  blessings  as  right  here  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Blessings  of  Conference 

This  will  be  the  conclusion  of  a  remarkable  conference.  It  has 
been  delightful  to  me,  these  wonderful  choirs  that  have  made  us  so 
happy  with  their  singing,  the  fine  advice  and  counsel  that  we  have 
received  from  our  brethren,  the  opportunity  even  to  sit  in  the  room 
and  feel  the  influences  that  are  here,  because  everyone  who  is  here,  I 
am  sure,  has  felt  as  I  have  felt  the  inspiration  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
and  the  spirit  of  love  and  kindness  and  a  determination  to  do  better 
than  we  have  ever  done  before. 

This  is  God's  work.  It  is  for  the  salvation  of  all  the  human  fam- 
ily if  they  will  accept  it,  and  we  who  have  received  it  and  know  it 
is  true  should  be  ever  alert  and  watchful  to  share  with  others  the 
things  that  we  know.  Let  our  homes  be  the  abiding  place  of  prayer 
and  thanksgiving  and  gratitude.  Every  day  when  we  go  out  from 
our  homes,  let  us  leave  a  place  that  has  been  sanctified  by  the  right- 
eousness of  our  own  lives,  and  when  we  return  to  it  that  we  may 
feel  that  influence  that  is  always  there  when  the  Spirit  of  God  is 
present. 

I  pray  that  these  fine  boys  and  girls  who  have  come  to  sing  to 
us,  along  with  the  other  visitors,  may  go  home  from  this  conference, 
that  you  may  return  to  your  various  homes  in  safety  and  in  peace, 
and  take  with  you  a  renewed  desire  to  be  real  members  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  worthy  to  be  called  members. 


164  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

Now,  I  pray  that  the  Lord  may  add  his  blessing,  that  his  peace  may 
be  upon  you  and  in  your  lives,  and  in  your  home.  Let  us  pray  for 
the  great  men  and  women  of  the  world  who  need  the  Lord  but  do 
not  understand  his  interest  in  them.  Pray  for  the  President  of  the 
United  States  who,  at  the  present  time,  so  much  needs  guidance  from 
our  Heavenly  Father.  Pray  for  our  representatives  in  Congress, 
our  governors,  our  mayors  of  cities,  the  men  who  have  influence  in 
politics  in  our  various  communities,  that  they  may  do  the  things 
that  will  be  better  for  all  of  us  and  make  us  happier,  and  please  our 
Heavenly  Father.  That  is  our  privilege.  I  say  to  you  that  the  power 
of  prayer  is  something  that  cannot  be  measured.  If  there  were  time, 
I  could  tell  you  many  instances  where  prayer  has  been  answered  in 
a  marvelous  way.  People  have  risen  from  beds  when  they  have 
been  told  they  could  not  live,  that  it  was  not  possible,  and  yet  they 
have  lived  and  performed  a  great  work.  This  is  the  kind  of  Church 
that  you  belong  to.  This  is  the  kind  of  organization  the  Lord  has 
offered  to  all  people.  Think  of  our  great  educational  institutions, 
the  opportunities  which  are  given  to  our  children  to  learn  all  that  the 
world  can  teach  them,  plus  the  glorious  truths  that  are  necessary 
for  us  to  absorb  and  make  a  part  of  our  lives  in  order  that  we  may 
gain  an  exaltation  in  the  celestial  kingdom. 

Admonition  to  Love  One  Another 

God  bless  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters.  I  feel  I  want  to  be 
with  you.  I  am  so  grateful  for  the  privilege  of  being  here,  and  now 
I  am  anxious  that  you  may  all  go  to  your  homes  and  carry  with  you 
love  unfeigned,  love  for  your  boys  and  your  girls,  for  your  husbands 
and  wives,  for  your  neighbors  and  friends,  and  let  that  love  abound 
wherever  you  may  be.  If  we  will  do  that,  when  the  returns  come 
from  this  conference  and  we  hear  from  the  various  stakes  and  mis- 
sions of  the  world,  where  people  have  gone  from  here,  we  will  dis- 
cover that  we  did  receive  a  blessing  and  that  the  Lord  did  magnify 
us  and  give  us  our  opportunities,  and  we  will  go  on  keeping  his 
commandments. 

I  pray  that  every  one  of  us  will  remember  that  to  be  a  member 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  an  honor  be- 
yond all  price  in  comparison,  and  that  we  may  so  live  that  our 
neighbors  and  friends  who  know  us,  who  may  not  be  members  of 
the  Church,  will  be  grateful  for  our  fellowship.  Peace  be  with  you. 
May  you  go  to  your  homes  in  peace  and  safety  and  continue  to  live 
in  love  and  happiness  as  long  as  you  are  upon  the  earth.  And  when 
the  time  comes  for  us  to  depart  this  life,  may  each  of  us  find  our  names 
recorded  in  the  Lamb's  book  of  life,  not  one  missing,  entitling  us  to 
an  inheritance  in  the  celestial  kingdom,  right  here  upon  this  earth,  in 
the  companionship  of  those  we  love,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  165 


President  George  Albert  Smith: 

The  choir  music  for  today's  sessions  has  been  by  the  Ricks  Choir, 
Elder  John  M.  Anderson  conducting,  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at 
the  organ.  I  am  sure  we  have  all  appreciated  this  fine  body  of  young 
people.  We  have  appreciated  all  those  who  have  given  us  music  dur- 
ing this  fine  conference.  We  are  grateful  for  the  ones  who  built  the 
organ  and  gave  us  this  fine  tabernacle  in  which  to  meet.  I  would  like 
to  take  occasion  again  to  thank  everyone  who  has  made  a  contribu- 
tion to  the  joy  of  our  conference  so  that  we  will  remember  our  ex- 
perience forever. 

Tomorrow  morning  the  presidents  of  stakes  and  counselors,  the 
bishops  of  wards  and  the  mission  presidents  have  an  important  meet- 
ing in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple.  You  have  all  received  your  notice  un- 
doubtedly. Those  who  have  received  that  notice  should  be  here  at 
8:00  tomorrow  morning,  and  we  will  go  from  here  to>  the  temple  and 
will  wait  upon  the  Lord  there  in  matters  that  pertain  to  this  great 
Church.  Please  be  on  time  or  as  soon  after  eight  o'clock  as  you  can 
possibly  come,  so  that  we  will  not  be  delayed  in  beginning  our  meet- 
ing in  the  temple. 

The  Ricks  College  Choir  will  now  sing  "Thanks  Be  to  God," 
by  Dickson,  and  the  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Virgil 
H.  Spongberg  of  the  Long  Beach  Stake,  Long  Beach,  California. 

The  Choir  sang:  "Thanks  Be  to  God,"  after  which  President 
Virgil  H.  Spongberg  of  the  Long  Beach  Stake,  offered  the  benedic- 
tion. 

Conference  adjourned,  sine  die. 

GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 

The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of  the  Church  was  held  in  the 
Tabernacle  Monday  evening,  April  5,  at  7:00. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  presided  and  conducted  the 
services. 

The  Aaronic  Priesthood  Chorus,  Elder  M.  Lorenzo  Mitchell, 
and  John  Parrish  conductors,  with  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ, 
furnished  special  musical  numbers. 

As  an  opening  number  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  Chorus  sang 
"The  Lord's  Prayer,",  by  Malotte,  conducted  by  John  Parrish. 

President  Frank  T.  Simmons  of  the  Weber  Stake  offered  the 
invocation. 

A  vocal  selection,  "The  Priesthood  of  God,"  (Mitchell)  was 
sung  by  Raymond  Baird. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

President  Richard  L.  Evans,  of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy, 
will  talk  to  us.    Some  of  you  may  know  that  Brother  Evans  has 


166 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


been  given  the  additional  responsibility  of  looking  after  this  Block, 
meeting  the  tourists,  etc.,  and  there  may  be  something  about  that 
part  of  his  labors  that  he  would  like  to  say,  as  well  as  other  things. 
We  are  glad  to  have  President  Evans  here  tonight. 

ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  Brethren,  I  am  awed  in  your  presence,  and  I  express  my 
gratitude  to  my  Father  in  Heaven  for  my  fellowship  among  the 
Priesthood  of  this  Church.  One  cannot  be  here  and  not  feel  that 
there  is  strength  in  Israel,  and  I  am  deeply  grateful  to  be  ever  so 
small  a  part  of  it.  And  I  earnestly  ask  that  my  Father  in  Heaven, 
through  your  faith  and  prayers,  added  to  my  own,  will  give  me 
utterance  during  the  few  minutes  I  shall  stand  before  you  here 
this  evening. 

I  could  not  help  thinking  this  morning,  during  President 
McKay's  message,  of  another  verse  of  scripture  that  tied  in  very 
closely  with  the  one  which  he  reiterated,  a  verse  from  the  Psalms 
which  mentioned  a  man  who  was  greatly  blessed: 

He  shall  not  be  afraid  of  evil  tidings.    (Psalms  112:7.) 

There  are  many  blessings  recorded  in  scripture  which  are  of  sur- 
passing worth,  but  this  particular  one  for  our  particular  day  im- 
pressed me  as  being  one  of  the  greatest:  "He  shall  not  be  afraid 
of  evil  tidings." 

President  McKay  spoke  this  morning  of  the  Savior's  words, 
"Let  not  your  hearts  be  troubled."  I  believe  that  in  this  body  of  the 
Priesthood  there  is  less  of  fear  of  evil  tidings  than  there  is  among 
any  like  number  in  all  the  world;  although,  it  is  very  difficult  not 
to  be  afraid  of  evil  tidings.  But  I  am  grateful  that  our  faith  helps 
to  sustain  us  in  times  when  evil  tidings  are  being  spread  about 
thickly.  It  is  unthinkable  that  there  should  be  talk  of  war,  earnest 
talk  of  it,  so  soon  after  the  terrible  experience  this  world  has  been 
through.  I  am  sure,  in  my  own  mind,  that  no  one  ever  won  a  war — 
it  is  only  a  question  of  who  lost  the  least  or  the  most.  And  our 
losses  in  the  last  war  are,  by  no  means,  calculated  yet.  But,  again, 
I  am  grateful  that  we  have  here  the  faith  which  enables  us  to  be 
equal  to  the  prospects  that  lie  before  us. 

The  Costs  of  War 

There  came  to  my  desk  within  a  few  hours — this  morning's 
mail  brought  it — just  one  indication  of  some  of  the  costs  of  war 
which  cannot  by  any  means  be  stated  in  manpower  or  in  money. 
One  of  the  results — an  appalling  result — is  the  high  incidence  of 
divorce.  In  the  United  States  in  the  year  1947 — an  all-time  high — 
there  were  six  hundred  thirteen  thousand  divorces,  as  against  fifty- 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  167 


five  thousand  in  1900;  and  as  against  about  five  hundred  thousand 
in  1945. 

I  think  this  subject  is  somewhat  on  my  mind  at  this  moment 
because  of  a  young  couple  that  called  on  us  some  weeks  ago.  One 
of  our  girls  from  a  nearby  community  had  married  a  young  man 
from  the  East  after  a  very  brief  acquaintance,  he  of  another 
church.  They  had  only  been  married  a  few  months  and  they  were 
beginning  to  have  their  problems  as  to  which  way  they  should 
go:  he  with  her,  or  she  with  him.  And  they  were  earnestly  trying 
to  solve  their  differences.  He  was  much  better  able  to  defend 
his  faith  than  she  was — better  informed  as  to  the  letter  of  it- — 
but  there  was  something  burning  in  her  heart  that  made  her  seem- 
ingly immovable,  also. 

Problem  of  the  Split  Home 

I  believe  the  problem  of  the  split  home  in  this  Church  is  one 
of  our  great  problems,  one  which  we  have  the  means  and  the 
agencies  within  our  hands  to  go  a  long  way  toward  helping  to 
solve — but  one  which  is  so  far-reaching  in  its  consequences  that 
it  affects  not  only  the  generation  in  which  it  occurs,  but  all  suc- 
ceeding generations.  It  is  a  problem  that  requires  our  earnest 
attention.  And  I  believe  that  our  Ward  Teachers  and  our  Stake 
Missionaries,  if  they  are  given  proper  direction  and  proper  help 
and  manpower  and  freedom  to  go  about  their  work  and  encourage- 
ment in  it,  and  if  they  take  their  assignments  seriously,  can  do  as 
much  or  more  than  any  other  agency. 

As  we  go  about  the  Wards  and  Stakes  in  some  areas,  particu- 
larly in  some  communities,  it  is  noticeable  that  there  are  quite  a 
number  of  children  over  nine  years  of  age  un-baptized,  which 
means  that  someone  has  failed  in  his  assignment — either  a  parent 
or  a  ward  or  stake  or  mission  officer.   It  cannot  mean  anything  else. 

It  is  difficult  enough  in  these  days  to  rear  a  family  when  par- 
ents are  solidly  united  in  their  ideals  and  purposes  and  convictions, 
and  in  the  things  toward  which  they  direct  their  children.  But  it 
makes  it  virtually  impossible  to  be  assured  of  any  satisfactory 
results  when  parents  are  divided  on  these  matters.  With  a  divided 
house,  principles  become  a  matter  of  contention,  rather  than  of 
conviction.  It  is  not  fair  to  any  child  to  be  pulled  between  two 
parents  in  two  different  directions,  or  to  be  asked  to  make  his  choice 
between  two  people  to  both  of  whom  he  is  bound  by  ties  of  author- 
ity and  love  and  affection.  It  makes  for  confusion  and  for  insta- 
bility. Too  often  the  home  that  is  divided  becomes  of  home  of 
irreligion;  quite  often  it  goes  one  way  or  the  other,  but  in  neither 
case  is  it  often  very  satisfactory. 

Sometimes  there  have  been  evidences  of  defection  from  the 
faith  because  people  have  gone  their  way  in  neglect  and  have 
been  overlooked  by  us,  or  because  we  have  wearied  of  working 
with  them. 


168 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


When  this  young  couple  came  to  us  some  weeks  ago,  we 
immediately  got  in  touch  with  a  former  member  of  the  faith  of  the 
young  man  who  had  married  one  of  our  girls  and  asked  him  a 
number  of  questions.  We  asked  him,  for  example,  "what  would 
be  the  attitude  of  his  church  if  someone  were  to  marry  outside  or 
otherwise  withdraw  himself  from  activity."  He  said  that  that  would 
be  the  signal  for  them  to  be  more  kindly  and  more  attentive.  I  wonder 
if  that  should  not  be  the  cue  to  our  own  attitude  and  action,  not 
only  in  this,  but  in  many  other  things. 

I  am  reminded  of  the  story  of  the  prodigal  son.  Certainly  we 
must  distinguish  between  a  man  who  is  in  full  duty  and  who  is 
mindful  of  all  his  obligations  and  the  man  who  has  stepped  over 
the  line  in  the  wrong  direction.  There  is  a  distinction  between 
them,  and  we  cannot  help  but  be  mindful  of  it.  But  certainly,  also, 
we  must  do  our  best  to  bring  those  who  have  wavered  into  activity 
with  us  again.  The  brother  of  the  prodigal  son,  for  whom  there 
was  no  feast  made,  was  somewhat  unhappy  about  it,  but  his  father 
explained  to  him  that  his  inheritance  was  assured,  but  when  the 
penitent  sinner  returned  it  was  cause  for  rejoicing,  and  a  feast  was 
made,  and  he  was  welcomed  back  warmly. 

I  hope,  my  brethren,  that  we  will  keep  a  consciousness  of 
our  responsibility  toward  these  children  who  are  not  baptized,  who 
are  of  us,  and  toward  these  families  that  pull  in  different  directions, 
toward  all  those  who  by  every  natural  reason  should  be  in  full 
fellowship  with  us,  but  who  will  go  elsewhere  if  we  do  not  have 
time  for  them,  as  will  our  children  if  we  do  not  have  time  for  them. 
They  will  find  activity,  they  will  find  companionship,  they  will 
find  their  place  in  some  social  circle,  in  some  group.  And  if  we 
do  not  have  time  for  them,  it  will  be  in  some  group  not  of  our 
choosing,  and  perhaps  not  to  our  liking. 

Qualifications  for  Seventies 

I  should  like  to  say  one  word  on  another  subject,  just  for 
a  moment,  concerning  the  Seventies,  and  appeal  to  you  Presidents 
of  Stakes  to  assure  yourselves  of  the  worthiness  of  those  whom 
you  recommend  to  us  to  become  Seventies,  before  you  send  in 
their  recommendations,  because  you  know  them  and  we  do  not. 
And  we  of  the  First  Council  feel,  and  I  think  our  other  brethren 
here  are  in  accord  with  us — and  if  they  are  not  theirs  is  the  op- 
portunity and  right  to  modify  our  views — we  feel  that  any  man 
who  is  recommended  to  be  ordained  a  Seventy  should  comply  with 
the  standards  of  the  Church  in  all  particulars.  We  feel  that,  gen- 
erally speaking,  there  is  no  reason  why  a  man  should  be  made  any- 
thing other  than  an  Elder,  if  he  is  already  an  Elder,  unless  there  is 
some  particular  function  for  him  to  perform  and  unless  he  has  the 
qualifications  and  the  worthiness  to  perform  that  function.  We 
are  not  interested,  generally  speaking — and  there  may  admittedly 
be  justification  for  exceptions  for  which  we  shall  ask  you  to  take 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  169 


the  responsibility  with  us — merely  in  multiplying  Seventies  or 
Seventies'  Quorums.  We  are  interested  in  men  who  are  students 
of  the  gospel,  who  are  capable  of  proclaming  it,  and  who  have 
an  interest  and  a  willingness  along  these  lines.  And  we  ask  you, 
our  brethren  the  Stake  Presidents,  to  take  responsibility  in  these 
matters  for  us,  if  you  will,  as  you  send  in  these  names  for  recom- 
mendation. 

Story  on  Statistics 

I  should  like  to  close  with  one  story,  and  I  think  maybe  this 
is  a  good  time  to  tell  it.  It  is  my  favorite  story  on  statistics.  I  have 
told  it  in  a  number  of  places.  It  is  not  my  story,  but  it  belongs  to 
Brother  Roscoe  Eardley,  and  if  I  violate  the  spirit  of  it  I  believe 
he  is  here  and  he  can  correct  me — I  may  violate  the  statistics,  but 
not  the  spirit,  I  hope.  Knowing  of  my  interest  in  the  subject,  he 
stopped  me  one  day  and  said,  "I  have  the  latest  story  on  statistics 
for  you.  We  were  coming  from  California  by  automobile  and  we 
had  all  been  over  the  road  a  number  of  times  and  were  somewhat 
bored  with  it,  and.  as  travelers  often  do  to  pass  time,  we  began 
counting  service  stations.  And  we  counted  one  for  almost  every 
mile  along  that  almost  eight  hundred  mile  journey.  But  that  is  not 
the  story.  We  were  so  busy  counting  service  stations  that  we  ran 
out  of  gas!" 

I  did  not  sympathize  with  him  too  much  because  he  had  already 
told  me  there  was  one  service  station  for  about  every  mile.  Then 
he  said,  "That's  statistics  for  you.  Where  we  ran  out  it  was  about 
fifteen  miles  to  the  nearest  gas  pump!" 

Now  I  hope,  brethren,  in  all  our  activities  and  responsibilities 
in  this  Church,  that  we  do  not  become  so  absorbed  in  our  statistics 
that  we  presume  they  are  the  end  rather  than  merely  the  indicators, 
the  barometer  rather  than  the  storm.  What  is  on  paper  means 
nothing  except  as  it  is  a  symbol  of  what  happens  in  the  life  of  a 
man  or  a  woman  or  a  boy  or  a  girl. 

May  God  help  us  to  discharge  our  obligations  as  members  of 
the  Priesthood  of  this  Church,  and  help  us  to  bring  every  man  into 
activity.  It  is  much  better  that  three  men  should  hold  three  jobs 
than  that  one  good  man  should  hold  three  jobs. 

I  should  like  to  close  by  expressing  my  gratitude  for  my  as- 
signments in  this  Church,  for  the  glorious  experience  I  am  having 
on  Temple  Square  and  in  my  other  obligations.  Even  though  they 
are  arduous,  I  am  grateful  for  them  and  ask  the  blessings  of  my 
Father  in  Heaven  in  helping  me  as  I  ask  for  His  blessings  in 
helping  you  to  discharge  every  obligation.  And  I  bear  witness 
unto  you  of  the  conviction  of  my  soul  as  concerning  this  being  the 
work  of  God,  our  Father  in  Heaven,  as  to  the  divine  calling  of  the 
Prophet,  Joseph  Smith,  and  the  divinity  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ, 
and  I  do  it  in  His  name.  Amen. 


170 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Brethren  and  co-workers,  some  of  you  who  have  had  to  occupy 
this  pulpit  can  appreciate  the  deep  sense  of  responsibility  which 
I  now  have.  No  man  can  face  an  audience  of  the  Priesthood  of  God 
without  a  sense  of  humility  and  a  prayer  in  his  heart  for  guidance 
from  our  Heavenly  Father. 

The  Tragedies  of  War 

When  President  Evans  referred  to  the  casualties  of  war,  my 
mind  went  out  to  the  parents  whose  boys  did  not  come  back  from 
the  battlefield.  I  had  two  sons  and  a  son-in-law  in  World  War  II 
and  they  all  three  came  back  unmaimed.  So  the  tragedy  of  losing  a 
son  did  not  come  directly  home  to  Sister  McKay  and  me.  I  have  a 
very  dear  friend — however — who  lost  his  only  son,  an  ideal  son  full 
of  promise,  and  a  worthy  member  of  the  Church.  My  heart  has  bled, 
with  my  friend,  in  that  loss.  But  he  went  from  the  world  gloriously, 
and  I  use  that  word  advisedly,  for  I  am  sure  that  no  young  man 
living  complied  more  aptly  with  the  old  saying,  "Be  fit  to  live,  be 
ready  to  die,"  than  that  young  man.  These  thoughts  came  to  me 
just  with  the  mentioning  of  that  tragedy  of  war. 

They  were  followed  by  other  tragedies  here  at  home,  deeper, 
more  poignant,  more  tragic  than  the  death  of  the  boys  on  the 
battlefield:  That  is  the  degradation  of  our  girls.  And  there  came 
to  my  mind  the  picture  of  one  home  out  of  which  came  three  young 
girls.  They  came  to  Salt  Lake  City  to  get  work,  prompted,  un- 
doubtedly, by  a  desire  to  help  in  the  war.  Perhaps  they  did  help 
win  the  war,  but  they  lost  their  souls.  A  policeman  gave  me  his 
confidence  and  told  me  their  story.  It  is  tragic.  Unfortunately,  it 
has  been  repeated  here  in  this  city  and  I  suppose  in  Ogden,  and 
other  large  cities.  I  mention  this  in  connection  with  the  tragedy 
of  divorce.  I  commend  with  all  my  heart  the  suggestions  made  by 
President  Evans. 

What  I  am  leading  up  to  is  this:  The  brethren  realize  that 
the  dangers  to  our  young  girls  who  leave  home  and  go  out  to  work 
or  for  other  purposes,  are  still  among  us.  There  are  daily  tragedies 
now  in  this  city.  If  possible,  we  should  like  to  prevent  them,  or 
at  least  reduce  them  to  a  minimum. 

Committee  to  Assist  L.D.S.  Girls 

Many  of  you,  perhaps,  do  not  know  that  during  the  war  Elder 
Charles  A.  Callis  and  President  Alma  Sonne  were  appointed  a 
committee  to  see  what  could  be  done  to  protect  the  girls  who  left 
their  homes  and  came  to  the  centers.  You,  perhaps,  do  not  know 
that  there  has  been  appointed  a  young  woman  a  mother  to  assist 
this  committee  in  finding  these  girls  and  keeping  them  from  arrest 
and  degradation.    Brother  Callis  has  gone;  Brother  Sonne  is  in 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  171 


Europe.  Two  other  brethren  have  been  appointed,  Elder  Spencer 
Kimball  and  Elder  Mark  Petersen  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 
The  reports  of  the  activities  of  this  young  woman  and  those  who 
have  assisted  her  are  in  their  hands.  It  is  pleasing  to  note  that  a 
number  of  girls  have  been  saved;  but  some  have  been  lost. 

Recently,  you  received  a  letter,  Bishops,  asking  that  you  notify 
these  brethren  of  any  young  girls  who  leave  your  Wards  for 
whatever  purpose  and  go  to  another  town.  It  will  be  necessary 
for  the  Ward  Teachers  and  those  who  are  in  charge  of  the  young 
girls — the  teen-age  girls  to  assist  you  in  this  duty.  Here  is  an  oppor- 
tunity to  apply  the  injunction  of  our  Father  in  Heaven  to  the  teach- 
ers, "Watch  over  the  Church,  always.  Be  with  and  strengthen 
them."  No  other  organization  in  the  world,  I  think,  is  so  ade- 
quately equipped  as  is  the  Church  to  guard  our  young  men  and 
young  women  and  to  keep  them  from  the  tragedies  of  sin.  Will 
you  please  cooperate  with  these  brethren,  for  your  own  sake,  for 
the  sake  of  the  fathers  and  mothers  who,  perhaps,  have  lost  control 
of  their  children.  The  reports  indicate  that  most  of  these  unfor- 
tunates come  from  broken  homes.    They  are  tragedies. 

Lost  Sheep 

Another  thing,  once  a  month,  through  the  courtesy  of  two 
County  Officers,  there  come  to  my  desk  reports  of  the  young  men 
and  older  men  who  have  been  caught  in  the  meshes  of  the  law.  In 
these  reports,  those  who  hold  the  priesthood  are  designated.  Do 
you  teachers  know  about  them?  So  many  Deacons,  so  many  Priests, 
so  many  Teachers,  so  many  Elders,  Seventies  and  High  Priests. 
These  too  may  be  tragedies!  Remember  that  the  injunction,  "Watch 
over  the  Church,  always,"  does  not  mean  just  once  a  month. 

In  the  parable  of  the  lost  sheep,  ninety-nine  were  safe  in  the 
fold,  but  one  had  strayed;  and  the  Good  Shepherd  did  not  rest  until 
the  lost  one  was  found. 

I  have  in  mind  another  theme,  tonight,  which  I  should  like  to 
preface  with  these  statements:  ( 1 )  That  truth  never  grows  old; 
and  (2)  that  responsibility  is  never  dis-associated  from  the  Priest- 
hood. 

The  Importance  of  Example 

To  the  Priesthood  here  assembled  tonight  I  quote  the  truth 
and  the  admonition  given  by  the  chief  Apostle  to  the  members  of 
the  Priesthood  over  nineteen  hundred  years  ago — that  chief  Apostle, 
my  favorite,  wrote  this  letter, 

To  the  Elders  which  are  among  you. 

I  who  am  also  an  Elder,  and  a  witness  of  Christ,  and  also  a  par- 
taker of  the  glory  that  shall  be  revealed.  Feed  the  flock  of  God,  which 
is  among  you,  taking  the  oversight  thereof  not  by  overruling,  but  will- 
ingly, not  by  constraint,  not  for  filthy  lucre,  but  of  a  ready  mind.  Neither 
as  being  lords  over  God's  heritage,  but  being  ensamples,  ensamples  to 
the  flock.  And  when  the  Chief  Shepherd  shall  appear,  ye  shall  receive 
a  crown  of  glory  that  fadeth  not  away.  Likewise,  ye  younger  submit 
yourselves  unto  the  Elders;  yea,  all  of  you  be  subject  one  to  another 


172 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  be  clothed  with  humility,  for  God  resisteth  the  proud,  or  rather 
seeth  the  proud  and  giveth  grace  to  the  humble.  Humble  yourselves, 
therefore,  unto  the  mighty  hand  of  God,  that  He  may  exalt  you  in  due 
time,  casting  all  your  care  upon  Him,  for  He  careth  for  you.  Be  sober, 
vigilant,  because  your  adversary,  the  devil,  as  a  roaring  lion  walketh 
about  seeking  whom  he  may  devour.  Whom  resist,  steadfast  in  the  faith, 
knowing  that  the  same  afflictions  are  accomplished  to  your  brother  in 
the  world. 

Just  one  element  I  wish  to  emphasize.  The  instructions  I  give 
are  nineteen  hundred  years  old,  yet  new  today  and  applicable  as 
then  to  elders,  from  the  chief  elder.  But  he  said,  "Be  an  ensample 
to  the  flock."  Ever  keep  in  mind,  fellow  workers  that  example 
should  start  at  home.  That  is  the  best  place  to  exercise  the  lofty 
ideals  of  the  Priesthood. 

Gratitude  for  Parents 

The  older  I  grow  the  more  grateful  I  am  for  my  parents,  for 
what  they  did  for  us  children  in  that  old  country  home.  They 
lived  the  gospel.  Father  used  to  preach  it,  particularly  to  visitors 
who  came,  more  than  to  us  boys  and  girls;  but  both  Father  and 
Mother  lived  the  gospel.  And  I  have  realized  throughout  this 
conference,  more  than  ever  before,  that  my  testimony  of  the  reality 
of  the  existence  of  God  dates  back  to  my  childhood,  that  my  parents' 
teachings  and  their  examples  led  me  to  the  absolute  knowledge  that 
God  is  my  Father;  that  I  received  then  the  knowledge  of  the  reality 
of  the  spiritual  world,  and  I  testify  to  you  tonight  that  that  is  a  reality. 

It  is  just  as  easy  for  me  to  accept  as  a  divine  truth  the  fact 
that  Christ  preached  to  the  spirits  in  prison  while  His  body  lay 
in  the  tomb,  as  it  is  for  me  to  look  at  you  from  this  pulpit.  It  is 
true.  And  it  is  just  as  easy  for  me  to  realize  that  one  may  so  live 
that  he  may  receive  impressions  and  direct  messages  through  the 
Holy  Ghost.  The  veil  is  thin  between  those  who  hold  the  Priest- 
hood and  divine  messengers  on  the  other  side  of  the  veil. 

That  testimony  was  born  in  that  home,  because  of  the  example 
of  a  man  who  lived  the  Priesthood  and  a  wife  who  sustained  him 
and  lived  it  in  daily  life.  I  do  not  know  that  Peter  had  that  in  mind, 
particularly,  when  he  mentioned,  "Be  an  ensample  to  the  flock," 
but  I  know  that  each  home  is  a  part  of  that  flock.  The  influence 
you  spread  in  your  home  will  go  throughout  the  town,  will  go 
throughout  the  county,  the  Wards  and  the  Stakes. 

Truth  Never  Grows  Old 

The  most  precious  thing  in  the  world  is  a  testimony  of  the 
truth.  I  repeat,  truth  never  grows  old,  and  the  truth  is  that  God 
is  the  source  of  your  Priesthood  and  mine;  that  He  lives,  that 
Jesus  Christ,  the  great  High  Priest,  stands  at  the  head  of  this  Church, 
and  that  every  man  who  holds  the  Priesthood,  if  he  lives  properly, 
soberly,  industriously,  humbly  and  prayerfully,  is  entitled  to  the 
inspiration  and  guidance  of  the  Holy  Spirit.    I  know  that  is  true. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  173 


Strength  to  Resist  Evil 

Peter  admonished  the  young  men  to  be  careful  about  the  sins 
of  the  world.  Evil  things  tempt  them.  Now  is  the  time  when  our 
young  men  are  tempted.  They  always  have  been.  Some  have 
resisted  and  some  have  not,  but  those  who  have  resisted  have  suc- 
ceeded and  are  happy.  It  is  the  happiest  life.  The  boys  of  our 
Church  who  uphold  the  standards  are  the  ones  who  are  respected 
and  who  receive  honor  from  the  men  of  the  world  as  well  as  from 
those  of  the  Church. 

For  the  benefit  of  those  young  men  who  have  inspired  us 
tonight  and  come  here  in  such  a  large  body  to  sing  the  songs  of 
the  Lesser  Priesthood,  I  am  going  to  conclude  with  a  story  of  a 
boy  who  was  not  in  the  Church — as  far  as  I  know — but  he  grew  in 
his  teens  and  using  the  inheritance  of  his  father,  he  started  in  busi- 
ness. His  father  had  set  him  a  proper  example.  Then  he  found 
himself  in  financial  difficulties;  and  in  distress  he  went  to  a  friend 
of  his  father's,  a  Mr.  Chaplin.  "Mr.  Chaplin,"  said  the  young  man, 
"I  am  in  distress,  and  I  need  ten  thousand  dollars.  Those  upon 
whom  I  have  depended  have  not  paid  me.  Perhaps  they  will,  but 
they  have  not  to  date,  and  I  need  money.  I  have  come  to  you 
because  you  knew  my  father."  "Come  in,"  said  Mr.  Chaplin, 
"Have  a  glass  of  wine."  "No,  thank  you,"  said  the  young  man, 
"I  do  not  drink."  "Well,  come  in  anyhow,  and  have  a  cigar." 
"No,  thank  you,  I  do  not  smoke."  "Well,  I  am  sorry,  but  I  do  not 
think  I  can  lend  you  the  money."  "Very  well,"  said  the  young 
man,  "I  am  sorry."  And  he  started  to  go  out.  "Wait  a  minute," 
said  Mr.  Chaplin,  who  had  just  been  testing  him,  "Come  here. 
Your  father  asked  me  those  same  questions  years  ago.  He  trusted 
me  for  five  thousand  dollars,  and  I  am  going  to  trust  you  for  ten 
or  five  times  that  amount  if  you  want  it.  No,  do  not  thank  me,  I 
owe  it  to  your  father.  He  trusted  me  as  I  am  trusting  you,  and  I 
am  just  trying  to  pay  him  back." 

Think  of  that,  young  men!  Try  to  picture  what  would  have 
happened  had  the  boy  taken  his  wine  and  taken  his  tobacco,  just  to 
show  off  in  the  presence  of  another.   An  example! 

The  responsibility  of  keeping  these  young  men  and  aiding 
them  is  started  in  our  homes  and  is  never  dis-associated  with  the 
Priesthood. 

God  help  us  to  be  true  to  the  testimony  which  is  ours;  give 
us  power  to  discharge  the  responsibility  placed  upon  us  when  the 
Priesthood  of  the  Almighty  was  placed  upon  our  shoulders  and 
given  to  us  as  an  eternal  endowment,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

The  next  part  of  our  program  is  something  we  may  all  join  in, 
and  I  hope  that  we  will.  There  is  a  wonderful  hymn  that  is  sung 
by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  as  well  as  others,  that  refers  to  our 
Heavenly  Father  and  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord,  "Come,  O  Thou 


174 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


King  of  Kings."  We  are  going  to  ask  everybody  to  join  in  singing 
that  h'ymn. 

The  congregation  and  Aaronic  Priesthood  Chorus  joined  in 
singing  the  hymn,  "Come,  O  Thou  King  of  Kings,"  Elder  Richard 
P.  Condie  conducting. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counelor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren,  I  think  perhaps  if  I  were  as  wise  as  I  ought  to  be, 
I  would  endorse,  as  I  do  fully,  all  that  has  been  said  by  President 
Evans  and  President  McKay,  bear  my  testimony,  and  take  my  seat. 
However,  I  suppose  that  perhaps  you  expect  me  at  least  to  try  to 
say  something  and  I  shall  meet,  so  far  as  I  can,  at  least  part  of  your 
expectations. 

I  hope  that  the  very  few  minutes  that  I  shall  stand  before  you, 
I  may  really  have  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  your  prayers.  I  am 
not  saying  this  idly,  I  am  saying  it  because  I  know  and  you  know 
the  power  of  prayer,  and  that  if  I  am  aided  by  your  prayers,  I  will 
be  able  to  say  a  little  something,  at  least  that  may  be  helpful  to  all 
of  us. 

Losses  Resulting  from  War 

I  should  like  Brother  Evans'  permission  to  refer  to  one  of  his 
observations,  and  that  is  as  to  the  losses  we  suffered  during  the 
last  war  and  as  a  result  of  that  war.  I  am  not  speaking  now  of  the 
loss  of  loved  ones,  great  as  that  loss  was.  I  wonder  if  I  can  strike 
at  the  very  root  of  the  loss.  You  cannot  fill  the  hearts  of  men 
with  murder  and  then  have  a  normal  world.  When  you  get  hate 
into  the  hearts  of  men,  anything  can  happen — lying,  cheating,  steal- 
ing, immorality,  and  the  thousands  of  other  things  that  follow. 
For  when  we  lose  our  regard  and  respect  for  human  life,  we  have 
very  little  left.  And  that  is  one  reason  why  the  Church  has  taken 
the  position  it  has  taken  regarding  compulsory  military  training; 
because  the  military  men  may  speak  as  they  wish — I  have  been 
rather  close  to  them  in  years  past  and  have  been  among  some  of 
the  best  of  them — but  I  tell  you  that  to  make  an  army,  you  must 
teach  to  kill  and  that  must  be  the  thing  that  you  get  into  the  hearts 
of  these  young  people.  And,  I  repeat,  plant  that  once  in  their 
hearts  and  everything  else  is  possible. 

I  am  going  to  push  the  problem  one  step  farther.  So  far  as 
one  can  judge,  the  next  war  is  now  planning  under  a  system  that  will 
call  for  the  use  of  weapons  which  will  wipe  out  cities  and,  if  neces- 
sary, nations.  I  have  had  it  reported — I  do  not  know  how  accur- 
ately— that  our  military  men  are  saying  that  if  we  had  a  forty- 
eight  hour  lead,  the  war  would  be  over.  How  many  of  us  brethren 
are  really  horrified  by  the  thought  of  the  indiscriminate,  wholesale 
slaughter  of  men,  women  and  children — the  old,  the  decrepit,  the 
diseased;  or  are  we  sitting  back  and  saying,  "Let's  get  at  it  first." 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  175 


How  far  away  is  the  spirit  of  murder  from  the  hearts  of  those  of 
us  who  take  no  thought  in  it?  We  have  travelled  a  long  distance 
since  the  opening  of  World  War  I. 

Course  of  International  Relations 

There  is  not  time  for  me  tonight  to  trace,  even  briefly,  the 
course  of  international  relations  since  the  day  when  the  great 
Grotius  wrote  his  great  work  concerning  war  and  peace;  but  I 
would  like  to  say  to  you  this:  That  when  we  went  into  the  Civil 
War,  there  was  no  rule  or  regulation  of  war,  and  I  would  like  to 
say  to  you,  further,  that  the  United  States  Army— the  Union 
Army — drew  up  the  first  Military  Code  that  the  world  has  ever 
known.  It  was  drawn  by  Francis  Liebert,  a  political  exile  from 
Germany,  and  it  is  known  as  General  Order  100.  And  I  should 
like  to  tell  you,  briefly,  that  it  provided  that  unfortified  places  should 
not  be  bombarded,  that  works  of  art  should  be  sacred,  that  hospitals 
should  be  protected,  that  non-belligerents  should  not  be  killed,  that 
the  children,  the  aged,  the  infirm,  the  mothers  and  the  babes  at 
their  breasts  should  be  preserved,  and  it  was  sought  to  make  war  as 
human  as  an  agency  of  Satan  can  be.  Today,  we  sit  quietly,  with 
our  consciences  scarcely  stricken  when  we  contemplate  Nagasaki 
and  Hiroshima  where  we  introduced  the  use  of  the  Atom  Bomb. 
Now,  if  you  want  to  know  where  the  losses  of  war  are,  that  great 
field  to  which  I  have  referred  is  where  you  can  look. 

Principle  of  Unity 

I  want  to  revert  to  my  favorite  theme  in  these  Priesthood 
meetings,  that  of  unity;  and  I  do  urge  you  brethren  to  come  to  a 
unity  of  faith  in  your  feelings,  one  with  another,  in  your  ministra- 
tions among  the  people,  in  your  administering  of  the  affairs  of  the 
Church.  I  hope  that  we  shall  not  have  brought  to  the  ears  of  the  First 
Presidency,  more  situations  where  Bishops  and  Presidents  of  Stakes 
cannot  agree.  You  Presidents  of  Stakes  have  no  right  to  try  to 
impose  your  will  upon  the  Bishops;  and  you  Bishops  have  no  right 
to  resist  the  counsel  of  the  Presidents  of  Stakes,  because  you  feel 
somewhat  differently.  Work  together.  Make  mutual  concessions 
on  matters  of  opinions.  There  are  precious  few  all-wise  men  in 
the  world. 

Relief  Society  Wheat 

One  more  point  I  would  like  to  touch:  Some  of  you  older 
men  here  have  been  through  what  I  have  been  through  out  in  the 
fields.  I  do  not  recollect  the  days  of  the  scythe,  but  I  do  remember 
the  days  of  what  we  called  the  "dropper,"  which  was  a  great 
advance  over  the  scythe.  And  you  who  know  about  it  will  re- 
member that  you  had  to  have  enough  men  scattered  around  the 
field  to  bind  the  grain  as  fast  as  it  was  cut.  The  next  advance  was 
where  it  was  raked  off  at  the  side,  and  then  we  had  the  self-binder, 
etc. 


176 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


In  the  early  days  of  this  Church,  in  the  days  of  the  scythe  and 
the  "dropper,"  while  it  was  felt  that  we  might  have  trouble  to  get 
enough  to  eat,  the  Relief  Society  was  asked  to  begin  to  accumulate 
wheat.  And  how  did  they  do  it,  brethren?  They  were  to  go  out 
in  the  fields  and  glean  after  we  men  had  taken  out  of  the  field  all 
that  we  thought  was  worthwhile.  And  to  those  of  you  who  have 
bent  in  the  sun,  as  some  of  us  have,  and  had  the  sun  bake  your  backs 
as  you  bound  the  grain  by  hand,  working  as  perhaps  you  had  not 
worked  before,  and  maybe  since,  so  that  you  know  the  heat,  dirt, 
and  the  discomfort  and  all  the  rest  of  it — I  want  you  to  think  about 
the  women  that  we  afterwards  let  go  into  the  same  hot  fields  where 
we  had  cut  the  grain  and  taken  all  we  cared  to  garner,  that  they 
might  glean,  pick  up  the  occasional  wheat  heads  we  had  left.  This 
wheat  which  the  sisters  so  gleaned,  was  hauled  into  the  yards  and 
threshed.  Over  the  years,  it  accumulated  in  their  bins  until  they 
had  three  hundred  or  four  hundred  thousand  bushels,  wheat  laid 
up  against  a  day  of  need.  Enough  to  give  bread  for  one  year  to 
50,000  or  60,000  people. 

Then  we  got  into  international  trouble  and  the  Government 
came  along  and  took  it  and  paid  us  for  it.  The  Presiding  Bishop 
handled  this  wheat  fund  for  years,  paying  to  the  Relief  Society  an 
interest  return  thereon.  When  the  Welfare  Program  was  set  up, 
we  reinvested  the  money  in  wheat. 

Building  for  Women 

But  in  the  meanwhile  the  sisters  had  been  promised  a  building 
and  they  began  to  build  what  we  now  call  the  Presiding  Bishop's 
Office.  The  sisters  thought  it  was  to  be  their  house,  but  time  went 
on  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric  needed  it — not  this  Presiding 
Bishopric,  I  do  not  know  what  they  would  do  about  it  if  the  situa- 
tion arose  now — but  the  Presiding  Bishopric  then  needed  the  build- 
ing, so  they  took  it,  and  it  became  the  Presiding  Bishop's  Office. 
Well,  I  hear  of  some  Bishops  who  expect  the  Relief  Society  to 
furnish  the  money  to  run  the  Ward.  I  am  always  reminded,  as  I 
think  about  such  a  situation  as  between  a  husband  and  the  wife, 
of  the  farmer's  wife  who  makes  a  little  butter  and  gathers  a  few 
eggs,  etc.,  you  brethren  know — she  gets  a  little  money  and  father 
gets  into  financial  trouble  and  does  not  have  any  money  to  pay  his 
taxes  or  other  obligation,  and  so  he  "borrows,"  he  "borrows" 
Mother's  money  and  too  often  never  gets  where  he  can  pay  it  back. 

You  know  these  women  of  ours  are  as  near  angels  as  some  of  us 
are  going  to  see  for  a  long  time. 

Now,  these  Relief  Society  sisters  are  starting  out  with  high 
hopes  and  a  great  deal  of  confidence  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric — 
they  want  to  build  a  building  for  themselves.  There  has  been  some 
talk  about  it  as  being  the  wrong  time.  It  is  nearly  always  the  wrong 
time  for  Mother  to  have  a  little  bit  of  money. 

Now,  brethren,  Bishops,  let  us  see  if  we  cannot  help  them  a 
little.   I  know  no  reason  why  we  should  not,  and  every  reason  why 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  177 


we  should.  If  there  is  any  Bishop  in  this  Church  who  thinks  he 
can  get  along  without  his  Relief  Society,  he  does  not  yet  know 
his  job.  And  if  he  is  getting  along  without  his  Relief  Society,  he  is 
not  doing  his  job.  So,  I  ask  you,  brethren,  not  to  hang  back  in 
helping  your  wives  in  this  matter.  They  are  not  going  to  ask  you 
for  much,  five  dollars,  I  believe — any  one  of  them  is  worth  five 
dollars.  Let  us  hear  no  more  sour  talk  about  this  Relief  Society 
Building. 

The  Condition  of  Our  Hearts 

Now,  I  want  to  return — and  then  I  will  close — to  this  ques- 
tion of  the  condition  of  our  hearts.  Brethren,  I  beseech  you,  put 
hate  out  of  your  hearts,  fill  them  with  the  love  of  your  fellow-men 
and  bring  into  your  consciousness  the  enormity  of  the  crime  that  is 
contemplated  and  pray  God  that  some  way  may  be  found  to  avoid 
it.  If  the  nations  will  seek  for  peace  in  the  spirit  of  the  peace  of 
Christ,  it  will  be  found.    I  fear  they  will  not  do  it. 

God  give  us  strength  to  live  our  lives  day  by  day,  give  us 
the  testimony  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  was  the  Prophet, 
build  the  testimonies  we  already  have  until  they  fill  our  beings,  to 
the  upbuilding  of  our  strength,  our  determination  to  do  the  will  of 
God,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  endorse  heartily  the  fine  instructions  you  have  already  re- 
ceived. I  think  perhaps  this  is  the  largest  assembly  of  Priesthood 
that  the  world  has  ever  seen.  Every  man  here  and  every  boy  here, 
who  has  conferred  upon  him  the  Aaronic  or  Melchizedek  Priesthood, 
has  a  portion  of  divine  authority.  In  my  judgment,  no  other  place 
in  the  world  in  our  day  or  in  olden  times  has  had  such  an  experi- 
ence. And  there  are  not  very  many  places  in  the  world  where  you 
could  get  as  many  men  together  in  a  religious  service  as  we  have 
here  tonight. 

The  brethren  have  been  calling  our  attention  today,  to  the  fact 
that  we  have  some  things  to  do  that  we  have  not  yet  accomplished. 
Immorality  is  just  as  terrible  in  the  world  today  as  it  ever  has 
been;  that  is,  the  results  are  just  as  bad.  Dishonesty  brings  the  same 
dread  and  destruction.   Conditions  generally  are  pitiable. 

Letter  from  Germany 

I  have  a  letter  here  that  comes  from  a  portion  of  the  old  world, 
and  I  will  call  your  attention  to  part  of  it.  Here  is  a  man  who  is 
writing  to  a  friend.  This  brother  is  in  the  Russian  Zone  of  Ger- 
many. He  is  writing  to  a  young  man  who  had  performed  a  mission 
in  Germany  several  years  ago.  The  letter  reads:  "As  you  know, 
my  wife  is  very  fragile  and  delicate,  as  you  were  in  Dresden  when 
she  brought  our  little  Claus  into  the  world.  He  will  be  nine  years 
old  on  the  thirty-first  of  March.  Three  years  later  she  bore  me  an- 
other son,  and  this  year  in  June,  we  are  expecting  another  child. 


178 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Now,  I  am  fearful  that  my  wife  will  not  be  able  to  carry  on,  because 
of  this  famine  and  undernourishment."  He  says,  "You  know,  to- 
gether with  others,  what  we  need.  This  is  what  I  have  to  ask  you, 
and  do  not  be  afraid.  The  Church  has  already  helped  us  twice 
with  food,  besides  the  times  they  have  given  us  clothing,  but  it 
is  only  a  drop  of  water  on  a  hot  stove — not  delicacies  that  we 
need,  but  bread  and  potatoes.  We  have  no  potatoes  at  all  in  our 
house  and  there  are  none  that  can  be  bought  in  the  stores.  The 
daily  ration  of  my  wife  in  her  present  critical  condition  is,  as  follows: 
(for  each  day)  nine  ounces  of  bread,  a  little  less  than  one  ounce 
of  sugar,  less  than  one  ounce  of  meat,  a  little  less  than  one  ounce  of 
lard,  one  ounce  of  marmalade,  and  a  little  less  than  one  ounce  of 
other  staples." 

European  Relief 

This  condition  is  the  result  of  war  and  famine  in  Europe.  He 
calls  attention  to  the  fact  that  they  do  not  know  what  to  do,  they 
do  not  know  where  to  obtain  food.  They  appreciate  what  the 
Church  has  already  done.  We  have  shipped  a  hundred  carloads 
of  food,  bedding  and  clothing,  since  the  war,  into  those  countries. 
Unfortunately,  in  this  particular  section,  much  of  it  has  been  taken — 
that  is,  some  of  it  has  been  stolen,  thus  preventing  delivery  to  those 
those  for  whom  it  was  intended.  Many  of  our  people  here  have 
been  sending  packages.  And  if  you  send  small  packages  by  mail 
this  individual  says  that  it  will  probably  be  delivered,  but  if  it 
comes  any  other  way  that  the  Russian  Government,  that  is,  those 
that  represent  the  Russian  Government  will  just  take  it,  no  matter 
what  quantity  it  is,  and  dole  out  just  enough  to  keep  people  from 
starvation.  By  the  way,  there  was  another  thing  in  that  letter — 
and  I  want  to  be  sure  I  get  it  right,  because  it  was  astonishing  to 
me.  He  told  how  much  milk  the  small  children  were  permitted  to 
have.  Perhaps  I  cannot  turn  to  it  in  this  letter  in  a  hurry,  but  the 
small  children  have  nothing  else  but  just  a  small  portion  of  milk 
once  a  day. 

When  I  think  of  the  blessings  that  we  have,  brethren,  think 
of  the  way  the  Lord  has  made  the  desert  to  blossom  and  bear  fruit; 
when  I  think  of  the  comforts  that  we  have  in  our  homes,  our  op- 
portunities, and  then  realize  that  there  are  some  of  our  brethren 
and  sisters  in  the  old  world  that  have  not  enough  to  eat  but  are 
suffering  for  the  want  of  food  and  other  necessities,  I  am  grateful 
to  the  Lord  for  his  bounties  extended  to  us  and  am  glad  that  we 
are  sharing  with  those  in  need. 

Relief  Society  Building 

President  Clark  has  referred  to  our  Relief  Society  that  has 
done  a  marvelous  piece  of  work  in  providing  quilts  and  bedding 
for  thousands  of  needy  people  and  who  are  on  hand  always  to  help. 
The  suggestion  is  now  that  we  assist  them  to  build  a  house,  for 
their  own  use.    They  started  the  house  that  they  are  now  in,  and 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  179 


it  was  intended  to  have  been  a  women's  building  but  it  became 
necessary,  apparently,  to  take  most  of  it  over  for  other  purposes 
and  the  sisters  have  had  one  floor  of  the  house  that  was  to  have 
been  theirs  for  the  Relief  Society.  But  they  have  not  complained, 
and  have  gone  right  along.  It  would  be  a  fine  thing  if  the  women 
of  this  Church  could  possess  an  office  building  and  meeting  place 
of  their  own  and  I  hope  that  each  of  us  who  know  of  what  they 
are  trying  to  do — when  they  come  into  the  neighborhood  they  will 
probably  ask  for  a  little  contribution  to  help  build  a  house — will 
feel  that  they  are  worth  a  good  deal  more  than  the  small  amount 
they  ask  for,  and  that  we  will  demonstrate  to  our  wives  and  our 
daughters  that  we  appreciate  their  efforts. 

Condition  of  the  World 

It  seems  to  me  that  the  world  never  could  have  been  in  any 
worse  condition  than  it  is  now.  even  at  the  time  of  the  flood,  or  at 
the  time  of  the  destruction  of  Sodom  and  Gomorrah,  or  the  time 
of  the  destruction  of  other  places  in  the  world,  the  destruction  in 
this  country  at  the  time  of  the  crucifixion  of  the  Savior.  Wicked- 
ness was  so  terrible,  and  people  did  not  believe  in  God,  apparently; 
they  refused  to  accept  the  idea  that  there  was  a  God;  notwith- 
standing, they  were  warned  in  time  to  repent  if  they  would  have 
done.  In  the  case  of  Nineveh  they  did  repent  and  were  not  de- 
stroyed, but  we  find  so  many  people  today  who  do  not  believe  in 
God,  do  not  believe  in  the  divine  mission  of  Jesus  Christ — millions 
of  them — and  yet,  He  is  the  Father  of  us  all.  It  is  a  strange  thing 
how  difficult  it  is  for  many  people  to  believe  that  there  is  a  God. 
There  are  many  who  are  anti-Christ,  they  can  believe  in  anything, 
almost,  that  you  can  think  of  and  produce  arguments  for  believing 
it,  and  I  want  to  say  to  you  today,  that  the  largest  portion  of  the 
population  of  the  world  that  we  live  in  is  anti-Christ,  not  the  fol- 
lowers of  Christ  at  all.  And  among  those  who  claim  'to  believe 
in  Christianity,  comparatively  few  of  them  really  believe  in  the 
divine  mission  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Well,  what  is  the  result?  People  have  turned  away  from  the 
Lord  and  He  cannot  bless  them  when  they  refuse  to  be  blessed. 
Our  Heavenly  Father  has  said  to  His  children,  all  down  through 
the  ages,  "If  you  will  follow  Me  and  keep  My  commandments,  the 
fullness  of  the  earth  shall  be  yours."  That  has  been  His  promise, 
and  it  has  been  fulfilled,  notwithstanding  that  selfishness  and  im- 
morality and  other  sins  creep  into  the  hearts  of  individuals,  and 
they  turn  away  from  the  Lord. 

It  is  a  good  deal  like  a  man  once  said  to  me — or  remarked  in 
a  place  where  I  happened  to  be — "Why,  these  people  here  seem 
to  think  I  am  full  of  the  devil,  but  I  am  not."  And  I  said  to  him, 
"My  brother,  did  you  ever  know  anybody  that  was  full  of  the 
devil  and  knew  it?"  That  is  one  of  the  tricks  of  the  devil:  To  get 
possession  of  you  and  keep  you  from  knowing  it.  And  that  is  one 
of  our  difficulties. 


180 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Absence  of  Spirit  of  God 

This  community  has  been  an  example  in  many  respects — I 
speak  now  of  the  Latter-day  Saint  communities  in  different  parts 
of  the  country — our  sons  and  our  daughters  have  been  very  reas- 
onably careful  to  honor  us  and  help  us,  I  am  sure.  But  this  ter- 
rible world  war  that  has  filled  people  with  hatred  for  one  another, 
has  had  its  effect  on  everybody,  apparently.  And  there  is  no  longer 
the  idea  among  the  children  of.  men  that  they  can  sit  down  around 
a  peace  table  and  satisfy  all  those  who  are  concerned.  Why? 
Because  they  do  not  have  the  Spirit  of  God;  and  without  it  they 
never  will  come  to  an  agreement.  Now,  we  know  that  and  the 
world  does  not  know  it. 

Danger  of  Anti-Christs 

In  our  own  country  we  are  in  danger  of  anti-Christs;  we  are 
in  danger  of  those  who  prefer  to  have  their  own  way  regardless  of 
whether  it  is  right  or  wrong.  And  I  want  to  say  that  there  are 
in  our  own  community  men  and  women  who  are  looking  with 
toleration  and  with  some  anxiety  that  we  do  not  say  anything  unkind 
about  those  people  across  the  sea  who  are  just  as  wicked  as  they 
can  be.  It  is  not  our  business  to  criticize  them.  But  it  is  our 
business  to  see  that  they  do  not  bring  into  our  community  the 
policies  and  falsehoods  and  wickedness  that  control  them  in  their 
own  land. 

The  newspapers  give  us  a  little  information  now  and  again — 
not  very  much.  And  there  comes  in  through  the  mails,  to  many 
of  us,  magazines  of  various  kinds.  I  wonder  if  we  are  paying  at- 
tention to  what  is  going  on,  as  a  people,  and  realizing  that  if  we 
do  not  prevent  anti-Christs  from  controlling  our  Government  of 
the  United  States,  we  have  got  to  take  a  stand  on  the  side  of  the 
Savior.    We  cannot  be  on  the  other  side  of  the  fence. 

Now,  we  have  had  information  and  instruction  that  no  other 
people  in  the  world  have  had.  We  know  that  God  lives.  We 
know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  We  know  that  the  Gospel  is  upon 
the  earth,  but  the  other  people  do  not  know  that  and  are  in  the 
hands  of  the  adversary.  If  they  only  had  the  understanding  that 
we  have,  that  God  lives  and  that  we  are  all  His  children  and  that 
we  will  be  judged  by  our  works  here  in  this  earth  and  by  our 
lives,  probably  they  would  feel  different,  but  they  do  not  seem 
to  know  that.  And  on  the  contrary,  there  is  bitterness  and  hatred 
in  their  hearts,  for  one  another,  and  it  is  not  a  question  of  whether 
it  is  right  or  wrong;  it  is  a  question  of  which  one  has  the  most 
power. 

Instruments  of  Destruction 

Reference  has  been  made  to  the  Atom  Bomb.  That  is  only 
one  thing.  But  just  imagine,  take  this  group  here  tonight,  one 
bomb  dropped  upon  this  house  that  we  are  in,  such  as  was  dropped 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  181 


over  there  in  Japan  and  there  would  not  be  any  of  us  left  to  tell 
the  tale.  They  are  being  manufactured,  and  other  instruments  of 
destruction,  through  the  wisdom  and  intelligence  of  men,  all  of 
them  sons  of  the  living  God,  but  they  are  being  utilized  not  to  find 
the  way  of  peace,  but  to  find  other  means  of  power  and  aggression 
against  those  that  they  associate  with.  That  is  our  danger.  And 
this  Church  cannot  remain  idle  and  silent  in  regard  to  things  of 
that  kind. 

If  people  come  into  our  community  and  try  to  teach  our  fam- 
ilies things  that  are  harmful,  surely,  knowing  our  responsibility,  we 
will  ask  the  help  of  our  Heavenly  Father  to  teach  them  better.  We 
do  not  have  to  become  angry.  We  do  not  have  to  be  filled  with 
hatred,  but  we  should  be  filled  with  wisdom  that  comes  from  our 
Heavenly  Father  when  we  keep  His  commandments.  We  should 
have  the  privilege  of  going  to  the  Lord  in  prayer  for  guidance 
when  we  are  in  doubt.  He  will  always  hear  and  answer  our 
prayers  if  we  are  worthy  to  be  heard. 

Aid  for  War-Stricken  Countries 

And  so,  my  brethren,  let  us  set  our  houses  in  order.  Let  us 
see  if  we  cannot  do  a  few  things  that  we  have  not  been  doing.  We 
are  becoming  so  wrapped  up  with  the  world  that  we  forget  the 
people  who  are  suffering  that  we  could  help,  in  many  cases.  The 
Church  that  you  belong  to  has^  done  a  magnificent  job,  and  the 
people  who  belong  to  it  have  been  sending  means  in  addition  to 
what  the  Welfare  Organization  has  sent  to  the  war-stricken  coun- 
tries, including  food,  clothing,  bedding  and  medicines.  They  have 
done  a  fine  piece  of  work,  but  it  is  only  partly  done  and  we  will 
have  to  continue,  and  unless  we  are  willing  to  continue  we  can 
hardly  go  to  the  Lord  and  say,  "Heavenly  Father,  give  us  a  bounte- 
ous harvest."  They  are  all  His  children.  They  need  us;  they  need 
not  only  our  moral  support  and  our  religious  teaching,  but  they 
need  food  and  clothing  and  bedding  and  help  of  all  kinds  because, 
in  many  cases,  they  haven't  anything  left.  If  you  could  see  some 
of  the  letters  that  come  into  our  office  from  some  of  the  poor  people 
over  there,  it  would  wring  your  hearts.  People  who  have  been 
taken  away  from  their  homes  with  the  idea  that  they  were  going 
to  be  allowed  to  settle  elsewhere,  and  all  of  a  sudden  deserted, 
and  then  when  they  returned  to  their  homes,  found  them  pillaged  and 
robbed  of  what  they  had — everything — and  left  helpless,  with  no 
place  to  go. 

Gratitude  for  Blessings 

And  so,  tonight,  as  we  sit  in  the  comfort  of  this  grand  audi- 
torium, this  house  that  was  reared  during  the  poverty  of  the  people, 
when  we  did  not  have  so  many  conveniences,  at  the  same  time 
when  the  Temple  was  going  on,  think  how  the  Lord  has  blessed 
us!  And  I  am  sure  we  are  grateful  for  it  and  we  will  continue  to  be 
grateful  as  long  as  we  have  the  Spirit  of  our  Heavenly  Father;  the 


182 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


feeling  of  gratitude  as  a  result  of  enjoying  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 
And  when  we  have  so  much  to  be  grateful  for,  surely,  we  will  be 
glad  not  to  let  somebody  else  do  it,  but  to  do  our  portion. 

Now,  we  have  had  a  wonderful  two  days  of  conference.  We 
have  another  day  tomorrow,  and  what  a  privilege  it  is  to  know 
that  we  can  sit  here  in  comfort,  enjoying  the  influences  that  come 
from  our  Heavenly  Father,  listening  to  the  most  delightful  music 
that  you  can  hear  anywhere  in  the  world,  and  then  go  where  we 
can  find  food  and  places  where  we  may  be  able  to  lay  our  bodies 
down  when  they  are  tired. 

And,  by  the  way,  brethren,  if  you  know  of  anybody  who  has 
not  a  place,  let  us  all  try  to  help  out,  because  there  are  people  here 
from  many  places,  some  of  whom  have  been  unable  to  find  rooms. 
If  you  will  go  to  Bro.  Romney's  office,  who  looks  after  the  Welfare 
Organization,  at  19  W.  South  Temple,  today,  or  tomorrow,  or  the 
day  after  as  long  as  the  city  is  crowded,  I  am  sure  he  will  try  to 
be  of  assistance.  I  am  giving  you  that  because  there  might  be 
cases,  and  we  have  had  that  happen  once  or  twice  here  in  Salt 
Lake  City,  where  people  did  not  know  where  to  go  and  they  stayed 
out  all  night  or  sat  in  the  hotels  in  chairs.  Well,  now,  that  is  a 
part  of  our  work.  They  are  our  Brothers  and  Sisters,  that  have 
come  in  and  we  want  them  to  be  happy,  and  I  am  sure  most  of  you 
have  done  something,  who  live  here,  to  help  take  care  of  the  group. 
I  know  that  I  never  have  any  difficulty  in  having  the  house  I  live  in 
filled,  and  I  know  that  I  am  happy  when  they  come  and  help  to 
fill  it  and  the  Lord  has  blessed  me  for  it. 

Constitution  of  the  United  States 

Now,  there  are  many  things  that  I  might  talk  about,  tonight, 
but  I  want  to  raise  my  voice  to  you  and  say,  our  Heavenly  Father 
raised  up  the  very  men  that  framed  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States.  He  said  He  did.  He  gave  to  us  the  greatest  Palladian  of 
human  rights  that  the  world  knows  anything  about,  the  only  sys- 
tem whereby  people  could  worship  God  according  to  the  dictates 
of  their  consciences  without,  in  any  way,  being  molested  when 
the  law,  itself,  was  in  effect.  Now  that  is  what  the  Lord  gave  to 
us.  That  is  the  Constitution  of  this  country.  Yet,  we  have  people 
who  would  like  to  change  that  and  bring  some  of  those  forms  of 
government  that  have  failed  absolutely  to  make  peace  and  happi- 
ness and  comfort  any  other  place  in  the  world,  and  exchange  what 
God  has  given  to  us — the  fullness  of  the  earth  and  the  riches  of 
liberty  and  happiness.  Yet,  there  are  those  who  go  around  whisper- 
ing and  talking  and  saying,  "Let  us  change  this  thing."  I  am 
saying  to  you  that  to  me  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States 
of  America  is  just  as  much  from  my  Heavenly  Father  as  the  Ten 
Commandments.  When  that  is  my  feeling,  I  am  not  going  to  go 
very  far  away  from  the  Constitution,  and  I  am  going  to  try  to  keep 
it  where  the  Lord  started  it,  and  not  let  anti-Christs  come  into 
this  country  that  began  because  people  wanted  to  serve  God. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  183 


People  who  came  here  came  that  they  might  honor  God  without 
molestation.  They  did  some  very  foolish  and  unwise  things,  but 
after  awhile  the  Lord  took  a  hand.  He  was  ready  to  organize 
His  Church,  or  would  be  soon,  and  so  He  raised  up  men  that  knew 
how  to  frame  the  Constitution  of  our  great  country  and  made  it 
possible  for  an  organization  such  as  is  in  this  house  tonight  to  enjoy 
the  blessings  that  we  have  enjoyed  all  these  years,  sometimes  un- 
der difficulties,  of  course,  but  not  the  trials  and  distresses  that 
other  countries  have  had.  So  let  us  appreciate  it  and  let  us  evi- 
dence to  our  Heavenly  Father  that  we  do  appreciate  it,  not  by 
talking  about  it  but  by  letting  our  light  so  shine — the  light  of 
righteousness,  the  light  of  faith,  the  light  of  honesty,  the  light  of 
generosity,  the  light  of  truthfulness,  all  those  things  that  our  Heav- 
enly Father  indicates  that  we  should  manifest  to  the  world — let 
that  light  so  shine  that  others  seeing  our  good  works  will  desire 
to  be  identified  with  an  organization  that  seeks  to  live  the  com- 
mandments of  God  and  honor  Him.  If  we  will  do  that  I  am  sure 
that  some  problems  may  pass  us  by  that  otherwise  may  come  to 
us. 

Kindness  to  Wives  Enjoined 

Brethren,  be  kind  to  your  wives.  I  hope  that  there  is  no  man 
here  who  has  married  one  of  the  daughters  of  God — and  He  loves 
them,  they  are  His  daughters — who  is  not  willing  to  do  by  her 
as  he  knows  the  Lord  would  have  him  do.  Do  not  make  her  just 
a  convenience  in  the  home  to  do  the  slavery  and  to  gratify  his 
appetites — that  is  not  what  women  were  given  to  men,  as  wives, 
for — and  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  it  is  your  duty  and  your  privilege, 
as  men  who  hold  the  Priesthood,  to  honor  your  wives  and  your 
children  if  you  expect  them  to  honor  you.  Unless  you  honor  them, 
God  will  not  be  pleased  with  you.  Live  in  such  a  way,  in  love 
and  kindness,  that  peace  and  prayer  and  thanksgiving  will  be  in 
your  homes  together.  Do  not  let  your  homes  just  be  a  place  to 
hang  your  hats  at  night  and  get  your  meals  and  then  run  off  some 
place  else  but  let  your  homes  be  the  abiding  place  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord.  And  so,  let  us  reach  out,  each  of  us,  help  our  neighbors 
as  well  as  ourselves,  set  the  examples  in  our  homes  and  as  sons 
and  daughters  of  the  living  God  in  our  great  community,  working 
hand  in  hand. 

Set  Homes  in  Order 

Reference  has  been  made  to  some  of  the  divorces  that  are 
increasing  in  the  land.  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  the  larger  portion 
of  the  divorces  are  the  result  of  infidelity  and  immorality,  and 
unfortunately  on  the  part  of  both  men  and  women.  So,  brethren, 
let  us  set  our  own  homes  in  order.  Let  us  make  our  adjustments. 
Let  us  live  so  that  we  can  truthfully  look  toward  the  skies  and 
say,  "Heavenly  Father,  we  want  to  be  worthy  of  what  you  have 
given  to  us.   We  would  like  to  be  an  example  to  our  neighbors  and 


184 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  all  who  come  in  contact  with  us."  And  if  we  will  do  that,  our 
wives  will  be  true  to  us,  and  our  children  will  appreciate  us  and 
be  true  to  us.  I  want  to  tell  you  if  we  want  happiness  in  the 
Celestial  Kingdom  of  our  God,  we  will  have  to  lay  the  foundation 
for  it  right  here;  and  part  of  that  requirement  of  the  Lord  is  that 
we  do  right  in  our  homes  and  live  right.  Some  men  think  that 
because  they  hold  the  Priesthood  that  that  gives  them  a  special 
way  in  which  they  may  conduct  themselves  in  their  homes.  I  want 
to  tell  you  that  you  men  who  hold  the  Priesthood  will  never  get  into 
the  Celestial  Kingdom,  unless  you  honor  your  wives  and  your 
families  and  train  them  and  give  them  the  blessings  that  you  want 
for  yourselves. 

The  fact  that  they  hold  the  Priesthood  will  be  to  many  men  a 
condemnation,  because  of  the  manner  in  which  they  have  treated 
it,  regarding  it  as  though  it  were  something  very  ordinary.  Priest- 
hood is  a  word  as  the  titles  Apostle,  Prophet,  are  words  and  names 
that  ought  not  to  be  repeated  unnecessarily.  We  ought  to  honor 
these  sacred  names  that  bring  to  us  the  blessings  when  we  under- 
stand. 

Gratitude  for  Companionship 

Brethren,  I  have  no  way  of  expressing  my  gratitude  to  you 
who  are  here  tonight  for  your  companionship.  I  have  no  way  of 
explaining  to  my  brethren  whom  I  associate  with,  my  Counselors, 
how  thankful  I  am  to  them  for  their  help  and  their  kindness  and 
their  cooperation.  I  love  my  brethren.  When  I  see  this  fine  lot 
of  young  men  here  tonight,  who  are  here  to  sing  to  us — a  glorious 
group — all  these  boys,  every  one  of  them,  a  child  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  with  the  possibility  held  out  to  them  to  grow  to  manhood, 
to  grow  to  greatness,  to  grow  to  eternal  happiness  in  the  Kingdom 
of  our  Lord,  I  think  what  a  privilege  it  is  to  have  them  here  to- 
night with  us.  What  a  joy  it  must  be  to  them  to  be  in  this  great 
house  of  the  Lord  tonight  under  the  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  our 
Heavenly  Father. 

The  Lord  bless  you,  brethren.  We  have  other  meetings  to- 
morrow; the  usual  meetings  will  be  held  as  we  have  been  holding 
them  the  last  two  days,  and  in  addition  to  that  we  have  a  meeting 
on  Wednesday  in  the  Temple,  for  the  brethren  who  have  been 
invited,  the  Presidents  of  Stakes,  Bishops,  and  a  few  others,  be- 
cause the  Temple  is  so  small  it  will  only  hold  a  comparatively  few, 
but  we  would  like  those  brethren  to  plan  to  be  here  in  this  building  at 
eight  o'clock  on  Wednesday  morning,  all  of  those  who  are  expected 
to  go  there,  assemble  here  in  Stake  capacity,  the  Stake  Presidents 
meet  with  your  counselors  and  meet  with  the  others  of  your  Stakes 
that  are  supposed  to  go,  and  we  will  find  right  here,  before  we  go 
into  the  Temple,  who  is  going  in  and  whether  we  can  all  get  in  or 
not,  and  of  course  we  are  hoping  that  we  all  can. 

Bishop,  what  time  is  your  meeting  tomorrow  night?  Seven 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  185 


o'clock  in  this  building.  The  Aaronic  Priesthood  of  the  Church, 
represented  by  the  Bishops  and  those  whom  they  bring  with  them 
are  expected  to  meet  here  in  this  building  tomorrow  night  at  seven 
o'clock,  and  I  am  sure  those  who  are  fortunate  enough  to  be  here 
will  have  a  happy  time. 

Lord's  Side  of  the  Line 

Now,  brethren,  again  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  you,  not 
only  tonight  but  henceforth  and  forever.  Let  us  each  go  from  this 
house  this  night  with  a  renewed  determination  that  we  will  stay  on 
the  Lord's  side  of  the  line,  no  matter  what  the  others  may  do,  for 
on  His  side  of  the  line  there  is  safety,  and  on  the  other  side  of  the 
line  there  is  not.  I  pray  that  He  may  give  us  wisdom  to  choose 
that  which  is  holy,  for  it  will  give  to  us  the  blessings  we  desire, 
and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Singing  by  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  Chorus,  "Joseph  Smith's 
First  Prayer,"  by  Smyth,  Elder  N.  Lorenzo  Mitchell  conducting. 

Elder  William  J.  Lewis,  President  of  the  Yellowstone  Stake, 
(St.  Anthony,  Idaho)  offered  the  closing  prayer. 


The  congregational  singing  of  the  Conference  meetings  was  di- 
rected by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor,  and  Richard  P.  Condie, 
Assistant  Conductor,  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  presented  musical  numbers  at 
the  Sunday  meetings.  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor,  directed 
the  singing  of  the  Choir. 

The  Choir  singing  during  the  Monday  sessions  was  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus,  Elder  Frankin  Madsen 
conducting,  and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  Organ. 

The  Choir  singing  during  Tuesday  sessions  was  by  the  Ricks 
College  Choir,  with  John  M.  Anderson  conducting,  and  with  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

The  Aaronic  Priesthood  Chorus,  with  Elders  N.  Lorenzo 
Mitchell  and  John  Parrish  conducting,  furnished  numbers  for  the 
General  Priesthood  meeting.    Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ. 

The  music  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  Sun- 
day morning,  9:30  to  10:00,  as  also  the  music  for  the  Church  of  the 
Air  broadcast,  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Frank  W.  Asper 
was  at  the  organ,  and  the  spoken  word  was  by  Richard  L.  Evans. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  organ  were  played  by 
Alexander  Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper,  and  Roy  M.  Darley. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


Index 


Auditing  Committee,  Report  of  127 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present   1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained  137 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft   82 


The  Freedom  Train  82,  Mission  of  America  83,  The  Constitution  a 
Glorious  Standard  84,  Spread  of  Coercive  Systems  85,  Warning 
Against  Communism  85,  A  Message  of  Peace  86,  Security  Based  on 
Righteousness  86 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E.    89 

Letters  of  Paul  89,  Work  Essental  to  Progress  90,  Spirituality  De- 
velops Through  Practice  90,  Everything  Has  Its  Price  91,  The  Goal 
of  Religion  92,  Judgment  According  to  Works  92,  Growth  Depends 
on  Individual  Exertions  93,  Church.Provides  Opportunities  to  work  94. 


Broadcast  of  Choir  and  Organ   7 

Changes  in  Church  Organizations  and  Officers  113 

Church  Auditing  Committee,  Report  of  127 

Church  of  the  Air   2 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.   62,  87 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.  116 


Revelation  at  Fishing  River  116,  The  Law  of  Tithing  116,  Council  on 


the  Distribution  of  Tithes  116,  Expenditures  of  the  Church  117, 
Danger  of  Inflation  118,  Moderation  in  Expenditures  118,  1947 
Financial  and  Statistical  Report  119,  Lord's  Admonition  to  Parents 
125,  Present  Need  for  Parental  Guidance  126. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.  174 

Losses  Resulting  from  War  174,  Course  of  Inter-National  Relations 
174,  Principle  of  Unity  175,  Relief  Society  Wheat  175,  Building  for 
Women  176,  The  Condition  of  Our  Hearts  177. 

Doxey,  Elder  Graham  H,   32 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.   8 

"A  Little  Learning"  8. 
Evans,  Elder  Richard  L  166 

The  Costs  of  War  166,  Problem  of  the  Split  Home  167,  Qualifications 
for  Seventies  168,  Story  on  Statistics  168. 

Financial  and  Statistical  Report  (1947)   119 

First  Day   2 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   36 

First  General  Conference  Session   9 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present     1 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained   137 

General  Priesthood  Meeting  165 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R.    24 

Definition  of  a  Prophet  25,  Joseph  Smith  a  True  Prophet  25,  Name 
Known  for  Good  and  Evil  26,  Revelation  Given  in  Missouri  Jail 
27,  Predictions  Fulfilled  27,  The  Calling  of  Prophets  28,  Thus  Saith 
the  Lord"  29,  Living  Oracles  30,  A  Teacher  of  Divine  Truths  30, 
Love  of  Fellowmen  31,  Testimony  Sealed  with  Blood  31. 

Isaacson,  Elder  Thorpe  B.   22 

"Take  My  Yoke  Upon  You"  22,  Strength  in  Unseen  Power  23,  The 
Way  to  Happiness  23,  Gratitude  for  Mission  Presidents  24. 


188 


INDEX 


Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R.    40 

The  Atonement  of  Christ  40,  "My  Peace  I  give  Unto  You"  41, 
Conscience  Free  of  Offense  42,  Peace  Comes  From  Righteous  Living 
42. 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W.  104 

Work  Among  Indians  Progressing  104,  Eruption  of  Mt.  Vesuvius  104, 
Wonder  of  the  Nile  River  105,  Men  May  Build  or  Destroy  106,  Vic- 
tim of  Human  Destroyers  106,  Redeemer's  View  of  Offenders  108, 
Teachers  to  be  Directed  by  the  Spirit  109,  Objective  to  Build  Faith 
109. 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A.    94 

Faith  Exhibited  95,  California  Celebration  96,  Tracting  Experience  96. 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B.    52 

Pioneer  Heritage  52,  The  Principle  of  Gathering  53,  The  Gathering 
in  This  Dispensation  54,  Places  of  Gathering  55,  Refuge  from  the 
Storm  55,  Warning  of  Dangers  56,  Defense  Against  Evils  57. 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R   48 

Salvation  for  the  Dead  48,  Prophet's  Vision  of  Celestial  Kingdom  48, 
Now  is  the  Day  of  Our  Salvation  49,  The  Heirs  of  Salvation  50,  The 
Terrestrial  World  51,  Importance  of  Mortality  51,  Love  Lightens 
our  Course  52. 


McKay,  President  David  O.   88,  89,  110,  137,  140 

McKay,  President  David  O.   63 

A  Guide  to  Peace  64,  The  Need  for  Repentance  64,  Spiritual  Readi- 
ness 65,  Warning  of  Moses  to  Israel  65,  "Let  Not  Your  Heart  Be 
Troubled"  66,  Charge  Given  to  Apostles  of  Christ  67,  Eternal  Prin- 
ciples That  Will  Bring  Peace  67,  Confidence  in  Fellowmen  68,  Slander 


Overcome  by  Good  Works  69,  Social  Evils  69,  World  Faces  a 
Crisis  70. 

McKay,  President  David  0  169 

The  Tragedies  of  War  170,  Committee  to  Assist  L.D.S.  Girls  170, 
Lost  Sheep  171,  The  Importance  of  Example  171,  Gratitude  for 
Parents  172,  Truth  Never  Grows  Old  172,  Strength  to  Resist  Evil  172. 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F.    70 

Lord's  Law  of  Health  71,  Importance  of  Balanced  Diet  72,  Quota- 
tions from  "How  to  Live"  72,  "Health  and  Efficiency"  74,  Meats  to 
be  Used  Sparingly  75. 

Moyle,  Elder  Henry  D,   3 

Christian  Attribute  of  Charity  3,  Care  of  the  Poor  4,  Establishment 
of  Welfare  Program  4,  Responsibility  of  Abie-Bodied  4,  Needs  Met 
Through  Consecrated  Efforts  5,  Guilding    Principles  in  Welfare 
Work  6,  Care  of  Aging  Parents  6,  Charity  Begins  at  Home  7. 
Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E.  152 


Gratitude  for  Faith  of  Youth  152,  Revelation  on  Use  of  Tobacco  152, 
Cigaret  Habit  Determines  Course  of  Life  153,  Smokers  Associate 
with  Smokers  154,  Cigaret  User  Stays  away  from  Church  154,  Cig- 
arets  Undermine  Faith  154,  Worldliness  in  Home  Life  155,  The  Value 


of  Religion  156. 

Presentation  of  Authorities  and  Officers  137 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General  165 

Reeder,  Elder  William  H.,  Jr.  149 

Rees,  Elder  Thomas  D.   128 

Richards,  President  George  F.    18 


A  Gospel  of  Sacrifice  18,  The  Law  of  the  Tithe  18,  An  Accounting 
of  Stewardship  19,  Our  Indebtedness  to  God  20,  Accomplishments 
of  Church  20,  Obedience  Brings  Blessings  21,  A  Worthy  Cause  22. 


INDEX 


189 


Richards,  Bishop  LeGrand   43 

Testimony  of  the  Spirit  43,  Development  of  Gift  of  the  Spirit  44, 
Letter  from  Convert  44,  The  Law  of  Tithing  45,  The  Power  of  a  Testi- 
mony 46,  Faith  of  Missionaries  46,  Loyalty  to  Church  Leaders  47. 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G.   76 

Personal  Testimony  76,  Faith  in  God  76,  Divine  Mission  of  Jesus 
Christ  77,  The  Holy  Ghost  77,  Church  Guided  by  Revelation  78. 

Romney,  Elder  Thomas  C.   58 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting    62 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   87 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G.   97 

Power  of  the  Priesthood  97,  Miraculous  Healings  through 
Priesthood  98,  Experiments  with  Atomic  Bomb  98,  Priesthood  Exer- 
cised through  Faith  98.  . 

Smith,  President  George  Albert    10,  32,  35,  36, 

37,  61,  62,  87,  111,  127,  131,  136,  137,  142,  148,  165,  173,  185 

Smith,  President  George  Albert   11 

Organization  and  Growth  of  Church  11,  Western  Movement  12, 
Arrival  in  the  Salt  Lake  Valley  13,  Observance  of  the  Sabbath  13, 
Progress  During  Last  Century  14,  Comment  of  Former  Governor 
Miller  14,  Message  of  the  Missionaries  15,  Contribution  to  People 
in  Distress  16,  Favorable  Position  of  Church  Members  16,  Seventy- 
eighth  Birthday  17,  Testimony  17. 

Smith,  President  George  Albert  157 

Smoker  Fails  to  Get  Job  157,  Returned  Missionary  Who  Lacked 
Courage  of  Convictions  158,  Advantages  of  Church  Membership  160, 
The  Name  of  the  Church  160,  Gratitude  for  Young  People  161, 
Keeping  Commandments  Brings  Joy  162,  World  in  Critical  Condition 
162,  Riches  of  Eternal  Life  163,  Blessings  of  Conference  163,  Admo- 
nition to  Love  One  Another  164. 

Smith,  President  George  Albert   177 

Letter  from  Germany  177,  European  Relief  178,  Relief  Society  Build- 
ing 178,  Condition  of  the  World  179,  Absence  of  Spirit  of  God  180, 
Danger  of  Anti-Christs  180,  Instruments  of  Destruction  180,  Aid  for 
War-Stricken  Countries  181,  Gratitude  for  Blessings  181,  Constitution 
of  the  United  States  182,  Kindness  to  Wives  Enjoined  183,  Set  Homes 
in  Order  183,  Gratitude  for  Companionship  184,  Lord's  Side  of  the 
Line  185. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  •.  131 

A  Prophet  of  the  Restoration  131,  Great  and  Dreadful  Day  Near 
132,  Restoration  by  Elijah  132,  Activity  in  Genealogy  133,  Preva- 
lence of  Genealogical  Research  133,  The  Keys  of  Sealing  Power  135, 
Statement  of  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  135. 

Statistical  Report  115 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   7 

Third  Day — Morning  Meeting  Ill 

Third  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   137 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A.   148 

Testimony  of  the  Truth  148,  The  Sealing  Power  148,  Importance  of 
Temple  Work  149. 

Wirthlin,  Elder  Joseph  L.   142 

The  Pre-existent  State  142,  Advent  of  the  Son  of  God  142,  The  Faith 
of  Abraham  143,  Apostasy  from  the  Truth  144,  Restoration  of  the 
Gospel  144,  Faith  of  Grandparents  145,  Two  Kinds  of  Sacrifice  146, 
Love  of  God  Requires  Action  147. 


190 


INDEX 


Young,  Elder  Clifford  E   37 

The  Uplift  of  Worship  37,  Age  of  Scientific  Marvels  37,  We  Must 
Walk  by  Faith  38,  Parental  Guidance  Needed  39,  Glorious  Age 
for  Youth  40. 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar    79 

Failure  to  See  Aright  79,  Conformity  to  Ideals  80,  "Human  Destiny" 
80,  World  Suffers  from  Distrust  81,  Salvation  Found  in  Religion  81. 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth  100 

Responsibility  of  a  Mission  President  100,  Without  Purse  or  Scrip 
100,  Carrying  Gospel  to  Indians  101,  Change  Wrought  in  Mission- 
ary 103. 

Y.  W.  M.  I.  A.  Reorganization   140 


IS  NURTURED  RY  EXPERIENCE  AND  TRUTH 


READ — 

FAITH  PROMOTING  STOKIES  _  $1.25 

Compiled  by  Preston  Nibley 

PIONEER  STORIES  $1.25 

Compiled  by  Preston  Nibley 

THE  MORMON  PIONEERS  $2.50 

By  E.  Cecil  McGavin 

NAUVOO,  THE  BEAUTIFUL   $3.00 

By  E.  Cecil  McGavin 

THREE  MORMON  CLASSICS   $2.50 

MY  FIRST  MISSION 
George  Q.  Cannon 


LEAVES  FROM  MY  JOURNAL 
Wilford  Woodruff 

LIFE  OF  JACOB  HAMBLIN 


SWEET  LOVE  REMEMBERED   $2.75 

By  Helen  Cortez  Stafford 

PROTESTORS  OF  CHRISTENDOM   $2.00 

By  James  L.  Barker 

WORLD  RELIGIONS  IN  THE  LIGHT  OF  MORMONISM  ....$2.00 

By  Thomas  C.  Romney 
WAY  TO  PERFECTION   $1.75 

By  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

TRUTH  SEEKER  AND  MORMONISM  $1.00 

By  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

THE  CHURCH  IN  WAR  AND  PEACE   $1.00 

By  Stephen  L  Richards 

FUNDAMENTALS  OF  RELIGION  $1.50 

By  Charles  A.  Callis 

FRUITS  OF  RELIGION   $1.50 

By  Franklin  L.  West 

PROBLEMS  OF  YOUTH     $1.75 

By  Harold  B.  Lee 

CONSTANCY  AMID  CHANGE    $2.00 

By  Albert  E.  Bowen 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 
44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10.  Utah 


Enjoy  the  Fellowship  of  Great  Minds 

by  Reading  GOOD  Books 

A  book  is  an  invitation  to  share  the  thoughts  of  ah  illum- 
inating mind.  Consider  the  enrichment  one  will  receive  from 
spending  quiet  hours  with  the  authors  of  these  books: 


Heber  J.  Grant  GOSPEL  STANDARDS  $2.25 

David  O.  McKay         ANCIENT  APOSTLES   1.00 

James  E.  Talmage       fESUS  THE  CHRIST   2.50 

ARTICLES  OF  FAITH    1.75 

Joseph  F.  Smith  GOSPEL  DOCTRINE   2.50 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  ESSENTIALS  IN  CHURCH 

HISTORY   2.50 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  PROPHET 
JOSEPH  SMITH     2.50 

LIFE  OF  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH   2.50 

WAY  TO  PERFECTION    1.75 

SIGNS  OF  THE  TIMES    1.25 

RESTORATION  OF  ALL  THINGS..  1.75 

John  A.  Widtsoe         IN  SEARCH  OF  TRUTH  _  50 

PRIESTHOOD  AND  CHURCH 

GOVERNMENT  ..   1.75 

RATIONAL  THEOLOGY    1.00 

DISCOURSES  OF  BRIGHAM 
YOUNG    2.50 

Richard  L  Evans        UNTO  THE  HELLS   1.50 

THIS  DAY  AND  ALWAYS    1.50 

"and  THE  SPOKEN  WORD"    1.50 


These  and  many  other  sources  of  inspiration  are  available 
to  you  in  the  large  stock  of  the 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

Publishers  of  Latter-Day  Saint  Literature 

44  East  South  Temple  Street 
Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 

THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST 


