ap 


NINETY-SIXTH 

ANNUAL 

CONFERENCE 

Of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly  Hall 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

April  4,  5  and  6,  1926 

With  a  Full  Report  of 
All  the  Discourses 


Published  by  the 

Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


66 


«t»n»»»»»»iiiii!i»»::;»mtmnmtttmm«mmm«»»»»t»»»»»:»»»»»»»»»mm« 


a 


8 


Can  you  answer  all  of  the  questions  that  are  put  to  you  about 
the  Church? 

THE  OFFICIAL 

History  of  the  Church 

Will  answer  many  of  these  questions  for  you. 

IN  SIX  LARGE  VOLUMES 

Compiled  by  the  Church  Historians  and  published  by  the  Church. 
Completing  the  First  Period. 

"The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with  introduction  and 
notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts. 

Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  and  Private  Library 
should  have  a  set. 

Cloth— Embossed,  per  vol $2.50  Postpaid 

Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  vol 3.50 

Full  Morocco— Full  Gilt  Edge,  vol 6.00 

The  above  work  is  suggested  as  reference  in  connection  with  the 
study  of  Church  History  in  all  of  the  activities  of  the  Church. 

iliiiimiiHliiiimiHinmilliimiiimimimim ijiimimiillMiimiimiiiuim iiiimiiiiihiiiiii 

For  the  reader  who  does  not  want  this  exhaustive  history,  we  recom- 
mend the  one  volume  book  entitled 

Essentials  in  Church  History 

by  Joseph  Fielding  Smith. 

"As  the  title  of  the  book  implies,  the  vital  and  essential  points  of 
history  and  doctrine  have  been  selected,  and  as  far  as  possible  arranged 
in  chronological  order." 

PRICE,  CLOTH  BINDING— $1.75 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 


mnm«t«tt»»i»»»»»mn»»»»tm»»»»«»»t8i»8n»»»»»»»n»»»tn»»»»H»nH»» 


Ninety-Sixth  Annual  Conference  of  the 

Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 

Latter-day  Saints 


FIRST  DAY 

The  96th  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
Sunday  morning,  April  4,  1926. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided.  The  conference  opened 
promptly  at  ten  o'clock  a.  m.,  at  which  time  every  available  seat  was 
occupied  and  hundreds  were  standing  in  the  side  aisles  and  in  the 
gallery.  There  was  an  over-flow  meeting  at  the  Assembly  Hall,  which 
building  was  also  packed  to  capacity.  The  services  in  the  Tabernacle 
were  broadcasted  by  radio  to  the  surrounding  country,  so  that  it  is 
estimated  that  at  least  fifty  thousand  people  heard  the  proceedings. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH   PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Anthony  W.  Ivins  and 
Charles  W.  Nibley. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve:  Rudger  Clawson,*  George  Albert 
Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David  O.  McKay, 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith, f  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,! 
John  A.  Widtsoe. 

Presiding  Patriarch  :    Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

01/  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  :§  J.  Golden  Kimball,  Rulon  S. 
Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi  Edgar  Young, || 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith, 
John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND   OTHER  AUTHORITIES   PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants:  Andrew  Jenson,  A.  William  Lund,  Junius  F. 
Wells. 

Presidents  of  stakes  with  their  counselors  were  well  represented 
from  the  ninety-four  stakes  of  Zion. 


•*Reed  Smoot  absent  in  Washington. 

tjames  E.  Talmage  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  mission. 

tMelvin  J.  Ballard  absent  in  South  America,  engaged  in  opening  a 
mission  there. 

§B.  H.  Roberts  excused  on  account  of  engagements  in  the  Eastern  States 
mission. 

||Rey  L.  Pratt  absent  in  South  America,  assisting  in  opening  a  mission 
there. 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

The  Priesthood  Quorums,  including  the  high  priests,  seventies  and 
elders,  and  bishops  and  their  counselors,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church, 
were  in  attendance ;  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations  both  of  men 
and  of  women  were  present,  and  also  members  of  the  Board  of 
Education. 

Mission  Presidents  were  in  attendance,  as  follows:  John  H. 
Taylor,  Northern  States;  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  Central  States;  John 
M.  Knight,  Western  States;  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  California;  Brig- 
ham  S.  Young,  Northwestern  States;  Joseph  Quinney,  Jr.,  Canada; 
John  G.  Allred,  Northcentral  States ;  Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern 
States ;  Benjamin  Goddard,  Bureau  of  Information,  Temple  Block, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  and  Kenneth  Haymore,  acting  president  of  the 
Mexican  mission  in  the  absence  of  Elder  Rey  L.  Pratt  who  was  in 
South  America. 

President  Grant  announced  that  Elder  J.  Golden  Kimball  would 
preside  at  the  Assembly  Hall  overflow  meeting;  and  that  the  music 
would  be  furnished  by  the  Murray  First  ward  and  by  Millcreek  ward, 
of  the  Cottonwood  stake.    Appointments  were  also  made  for  speakers. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn  on  page  198,  "Now 
let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salvation." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  C.  Clarence  Neslen,  bishop  of  the 
Twentieth  ward,  Salt  Lake  City. 

The  choir  sang :  "The  morning  breaks,  the  shadows  flee." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

This  is  a  very  wonderful  gathering  of  Latter-day  Saints,  the 
Tabernacle  being  crowded  to  overflowing.  It  is  certainly  an  inspiring 
sight,  and  bears  witness  to  the  interest  and  devotion  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  humbly  pray  that  while  I  stand  before  you  this  morning  I  may 
be  able  to  say  something  that  shall  in  some  small  degree  fulfil  my 
share  of  this  conference,  and  which  you  can  take  away  with  you  and  feel 
that  you  have  received  some  benefit  by  leaving  your  homes,  some  of 
you  from  Canada  on  the  north  to  Mexico  on  the  south,  and  from  New 
York  to  San  Francisco. 

CAUSE  FOR  REJOICING 

I  rejoice  in  the  growth  of  the  work  of  God.  I  rejoice  in  the  in- 
tegrity and  devotion  and  the  willing  self-sacrifice  of  the  people.  I  am 
very  thankful  for  all  of  the  many  blessings  that  have  come  to  us  as  a 
people,  from  the  time  when  that  great  pioneer,  Brigham  Young,  and  that 
wonderful  band  of  men  and  women,  one  hundred  and  forty  odd,  first 
came  to  this  valley.  I  am  thankful  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  that 
have  attended  the  Saints,  notwithstanding  the  drivings  and  the  persecu- 
tions and  the  mobbings  that  they  have  had  to  endure  during  the  96  years 
since  the  organization  of  the  Church. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  3 

It  is  generally  expected  that  at  the  April  conference  of  the  Church 
something  shall  be  given  in  the  nature  of  statistics  regarding  the  con- 
dition of  the  Church.  Therefore,  before  making  any  special  remarks, 
I  shall  give  you  a  few  items  of  interest. 

CHANGES  IN  OFFICERS,  AND  CHURCH  STATISTICS 

Stake  Presidents  Honorably  Released. 

Mark  Austin,  Fremont  stake;  Peter  M.  Hansen  (deceased),  Bear  River 
stake ;  Nelson  J.  Hogan,  Idaho  stake ;  Heber  C.  Austin,  Idaho  Falls  stake. 

New  Stake  Presidents 

George  S.  Romney,  Fremont  stake;  Milton  H.  Welling,  Bear  River 
stake;  J.  Fred  Corbett,  Idaho  stake;  Frederick  A.  Caine,  Idaho  Falls  stake. 

Mission  Presidents  Honorably  Released 

Albert  R.  Peterson,  Norwegian  mission;  John  S.  Hansen,  Danish 
mission;  Charles  S.  Hyde,  Netherlands  mission;  Herbert  B.  Foulger, 
Tahitian  mission    (acting). 

Mission  Presidents  Appointed 

Martin  Christopherson,  Norwegian  mission;  Joseph  L.  Peterson,  Danish 
mission;  John  P.  Lillywhite,  Netherlands  mission;  Alma  G.  Burton,  Tahitian 
mission. 

STATISTICS 

There  are  at  present:  stakes  of  Zion,  94;  wards,  909;  independent 
branches,  76;  missions,  26;  branches  in  missions,  716,  making  atotal  of  1701 
wards  and  branches  now  in  the  Church. 

There  were  less  than  twenty  stakes  of  Zion  at  the  time  I  was  chosen 
to  be  one  of  the  twelve  apostles  of  the  Church,  43  years  ago. 

Since  our  conference  in  1925,  69  stake  and  ward  meeting  houses  have 
been  erected  and  24  buildings  in  our  missions,  which  makes  a  total  of  93 
structures  during  the  year. 

We  have  not  yet  completed  the  Arizona  temple,  but  the  expenditures 
up  to  the  31st  of  December,  1925,  on  that  building  were  $540,000. 

We  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  growth  of  work  in  our  temples.  In  the  Salt  Lake 
temple,  I  learn  from  brother  Geo.  F.  Richards,  we  have  had  as  high  as 
1800  people  go  through  in  a  single  day.  Many  companies  go  through  there  each 
day,  laboring  for  the  salvation  of  their  dead. 

In  our  Church  educational  system  we  have  enrolled:  in  Church  schools, 
4,184;  in  Seminaries, 10,341 ;  in  Religion  Classes,  57,000; 

Total  number   receiving  week-day  religious    education,   71,525. 

This  says  nothing  of  religious  education  that  is  being  given  to  59,000 
women  in  our  Relief  Societies,  100,000  in  our  Young  Men's  and 
Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  Associations,  and  a  qu?iter  of  a  million 
in  our  Sunday  schools.  And  I  am  informed  that  the  enrollment  of  our  children 
in  Primary  Associations  now  reaches  100,000. 

There  were  ordinances  performed  in  the  temples  for  the  living  and  the 
dead  last  year,  986,321. 

Number  of  people  recommended  to  the  temples,  55,695. 

We  have  somewhat  more  than  2,500  missionaries  in  the  field  at  the 
present  time. 

FINANCIAL  STATEMENT 

Following  are  the  expenditures  from  the  tithes  of  the  Church  for  the 
year  1925: 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Stake  and  Ward  Purposes 

There  has  been  returned  from  the  tithes  to  the  stakes  and  wards  lor 
building  construction,  maintenance  and  operation,  $1,486,351.81. 

Education 

Expended  for  the  construction,  maintenance  and  operation  of  Church 
schools,  $9,58,440.67. 

Temples 

Expended  for  the  construction,  maintenance  and  operation  of  temples, 
$319,415. 

Charities 

For  the  care  of  the  worthy  poor  and  other  charitable  purposes, 
including  hospital  treatment,  $172,352.74. 

Missions 

For  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  all  the  missions  and  for  the 
erection  of  places  of  worship  and  other  buildings  in  the  missions,  $769,926.79. 

Making  a  total,  which  has  been  taken  from  the  tithes  and  returned  by 
the  trustee-in-trust  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  the  stakes  and 
wards,  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  Church  schools  and  temples, 
for  charities  and  for  mission  activities,  of  $3,706,397.01. 

Other   Charities 

In  addition  to  charities  paid  from  the  tithes,  as  before  named,  there 
has  also  been  disbursed  the  fast  offerings,  other  charities  and  assistance 
rendered  by  the  Relief  Society,  in  the  sum  of  $442,868.07,  which  amount, 
added  to  the  $172,262.74'  paid  from  the  tithes,  makes  the  total  charity 
assistance   rendered  by  the   Church,   $615,130.81. 

There  has  been  collected  by  the  various  wards  of  the  Church  and 
paid  to  missionaries  to  assist  in  their  maintenance,  $131,941.31. 

STATISTICS    REGARDING    THE  GROWTH    OF    THE   CHURCH 

Children  blessed  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  Church  in  the 
stakes   and   missions,   20,233. 

Children  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions,  14,390. 

Converts  baptized  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  stakes  and  missions, 
6,373. 

SOCIAL   STATISTICS. 

Birth  rate,  32  per  thousand;  marriage  rate,  15  per  thousand;  death 
rate,  6.7  per  thousand. 

Divorces — There  was  one  divorce  in  every  20  marriages.  Average  in 
the  United  States  is  one  divorce  in  every  seven  marriages. 

Families  owning  their  own  homes,  73  per  cent. 

OBEDIENCE    TO    LAW 

There  is  at  the  present  time  an  agitation  going  on  in  the  United 
States  against  the  enforcement  of  prohibition.  Straw  votes  are  being 
taken  which  show  that  the  overwhelming  sentiment  of  those  who  have 
seen  fit  to  vote  on  this  straw  ballot  are  in  favor  of  the  repeal  or  modifica- 
tion of  the  present  law. 

There  is  also  a  wave  of  crime  sweeping  over  the  country.  Perhaps 
there  is  nothing  of  greater  importance,  next  to  our  spiritual  growth, 
than  a  determination  on  the  part  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  observe 
the  laws  of  our  country.    I  wish  to  quote  from  the  immortal  Lincoln : 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.   GRANT  5 

LINCOLN   ON  THE  SUBJECT 

"Let  every  American,  every  lover  of  Liberty,  every  well  wisher  to  his 
posterity,  swear  by  the  blood  of  the  revolution  never  to  violate  in  the  least 
particular  the  laws  of  the  country,  and  never  to  tolerate  their  violation  by 
others.  As  the  patriots  of  '76  did  to  the  support  of  the  Declaration  of 
Independence,  so  to  the  support  of  the  Constitution  and  laws  let  every 
American  pledge  his  life,  his  property  and  his  sacred  honor.  Let  every 
man  remember  that  to  violate  the  law  is  to  trample  on  the  blood  of  his 
father,  and  to  tear  the  charter  of  his  own  and  his  children's  liberty.  Let 
reverence  for  the  laws  be  breathed  by  every  American  mother  to  the  lisping 
babe  that  prattles  in  her  lap;  let  it  be  taught  in  schools,  in  seminaries,  and 
in  colleges;  let  it  be  written  in  primers,  in  spelling  books  and  almanacs;  let 
it  be  preached  from  the  pulpit,  proclaimed  in  legislative  halls,  enforced  in 
courts  of  justice.     In  short,  let  it  become  the  political  religion  of  the  nation." 

One  of  the  Articles  of  our  Faith  declares  that  we  believe  in  sus- 
taining the  law  and  supporting  the  rulers.  So  that  not  only  should 
Latter-day  Saints  follow  the  advice  of  the  immortal  Lincoln,  but  they 
should  follow  the  doctrines  of  the  Church  to  which  they  belong. 

THEODORE  ROOSEVELT 

Theodore  Roosevelt  has  the  following  statements  to  make  that 
would  apply  more  or  less  to  sustaining  the  law : 

"In  character  we  must  have  virtue,  morality,  decency  and  square  dealing 
as  the  foundation. 

"Any  man  who  claims  there  can  be  liberty  in  spite  of  and  against  the 
law  is  claiming  that  anarchy  is  liberty  . 

"We  need  strong  bodies;  more  than  that,  we  need  strong  minds,  and 
finally  we  need  what  counts  for  more  than  body  or  mind — character." 

"The  man  who  counts  is  the  man  who  is  decent  and  who  makes  himself 
felt  as  a  force  for  decency." 

THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM   A  REVELATION  TO  THE  SAINTS 

The  Latter-day  Saints  have  a  revelation  from  God  regarding 
strong  bodies.  In  that  revelation  it  is  recorded  that  tobacco  is  not 
good  for  the  body.  It  is  also  recorded  there  that  strong  drinks  are 
not  to  be  taken  internally,  but  are  only  for  the  washing  of  the  body. 
We  are  told  in  this  same  revelation  that  hot  drinks  are  not  good  for 
man.  This  revelation  was  given  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  1833,  only 
three  years  after  the  organization  of  the  Church.  Yet,  there  are  many 
of  the  people  who  have  never  lived  up  to  that  revelation.  But  I  am 
thankful  that  the  great  majority  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  observers 
of  the  Word  of  Wisdom — that  tea,  coffee,  liquor  and  tobacco  are  let 
alone  by  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  have  read  to  you  that  we  have  seventeen  hundred  wards  and 
branches  in  the  Church.  In  each  of  the  wards  of  the  Church  there  is  a 
bishop  and  two  counselors  and  a  ward  clerk,  and  in  each  of  the  inde- 
pendent branches  there  is  a  president  and  two  counselors.  There  are 
sometimes  three  presiding  officers  in  the  branches  throughout  the 
missions,  and  sometimes  only  one.  But  we  have  an  army  of  men  presid- 
ing amounting  to  four  or  five  thousand,  and  every  one  of  those  men  must 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

pledge  his  honor  that  he  will  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  We  have 
now  ninety-four  stakes,  with  a  presidency  of  three  men,  and  a  stake 
clerk,  and  we  have  twelve  high  councilors  in  each  of  these  stakes. 
In  addition  we  have  many  alternate  high  councilors.  It  will  average,  I 
am  sure,  twenty  men  to  the  stake,  So  we  have  an  army  of  two  thousand 
there,  and  every  one  of  these  leading  men  must  obey  the  Word  of 
Wisdom. 

ON    WOMEN    AND    SMOKING 

I  read  recently  in  a  paper  published  in  our  city : 

"The  woman  smoker  is  the  prominent  professional  and  business 
woman  in  every  community."  I  desire  to  broadcast  all  over  the  world 
that  that  statement  is  an  absolute  falsehood  so  far  as  the  Latter-day 
Saints  are  concerned.  Never  in  my  life  have  I  seen  a  Latter-day  Saint 
woman  or  girl  smoking  a  cigarette.  This  article  states  that  last  year 
there  were  9,000,000,000  cigarettes  smoked  by  the  women  of  these 
United  States,  and  that  there  were  7,000,000,000  cigarettes  smoked  by 
women  the  year  before,  an  increase  in  round  numbers  of  thirty  per  cent. 
The  writer  said  that  the  woman  smoker  is  "the  prominent  commercial 
and  business  woman  in  every  community."  I  say :  Leave  out  every 
Latter-day  Saint  community,  because  it  is  a  falsehood. 

"She  is  the  wife  of  your  local  physician."  She  is  not  the  wife  of 
any  physician  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  so 
far  as  I  know.  "She  is  the  wife  of  the  town  banker,  the  attorney. 
She  is  the  president  of  your  parent-teacher  club,  your  literary  club." 
These  statements  are  reputed  to  have  been  made  by  Cynthia  Grey.  I 
would  not  be  a  bit  surprised  if  Cynthia  Grey  is  but  a  newspaper  name, 
and  it  is  one  of  the  tobacco  trusts  who  furnished  the  article. 

"In  other  words,  it  is  stuff  and  nonsense,  nowadays,  to  say  that 
the  women  who  smoke  are  scarlet  ladies."  We  do  not  say  that.  So 
she  has  put  that  in  to  weaken  the  fight  against  this  awful  curse, 
cigarette  smoking. 

"Does  nicotine  harm  the  woman  any  more  than  the  man,  if  it 
harms  either?"  Nicotine  harms  every  man,  woman  and  child  that 
uses  tobacco,  and  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  have  the  word  of  the  Lord 
God  Almighty,  the  Creator  of  heaven  and  earth,  to  that  effect,  this 
lady   (or  perhaps  man),  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding. 

"I  am  inclined  to  believe  that  even  a  woman  smoker,  quite  firm 
in  her  conviction  that  she  is  doing  the  proper  thing"  [I  do  not  be- 
lieve that  any  woman  smoker  believes  she  is  doing  the  proper  thing] 
"would  stop  smoking,  if  any  real  authority  could  prove  she  was 
harming  any  possible  future  child  of  hers."  The  trained  athletes  of  the 
nation  are  pretty  good  authorities  on  the  harm  to  the  physical  body,  and 
they  are  practically  a  unit  that  tobacco  and  liquor  do  harm  the  body. 
Some  of  the  great  baseball  clubs  of  America,  who  have  won  cham- 
pionships, won't  allow  liquor  or  tobacco  to  be  used  by  their  men. 

The  head  of  the  New  York  Athletic  club,  one  of  the  greatest  in 


PRESIDENT  HEBER   J.   GRANT  7 

this  country,  announces  that  there  is  no  prospect  of  success  in  the 
athletic  line  to  the  man  who  uses  tobacco  and  liquor. 

"But  medical  savants,  when  pushed  to  the  wall,  seem  not  much 
alarmed."  When  they  are  not  pushed  to  the  wall,  the  great  majority 
of  them  acknowledge  the  harmful  influence  of  these  things. 

"The  president  of  the  Association  of  Railway  Chief  Surgeons  is 
quoted  as  saying  'Fags  help  men  work  out  problems.  Why  not  women?'  " 

A  whip  helps  a  horse  to  go  a  little  bit  further,  but  it  does  not 
add  any  strength  to  the  horse,  and  no  narcotic  or  stimulant  that  creates 
an  appetite  for  itself  is  good  for  man  or  woman.  And  thank  the 
Lord  we  have  his  word  to  that  effect. 

I  will  not  take  any  more  of  your  time  reading  from  this  article, 
for  it  is  "rot." 

COMMENTS  ON  SUSTAINING  THE  LAW 

I  meant  after  reading  Lincoln's  wonderful  appeal  to  sustain  the 
Constitution,  to  read  the  following: 

Gladstone  said,  speaking  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States : 
"It  is  the  greatest  document  of  its  kind  that  ever  sprang  from  the 
mind  of  man." 

The  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  the  teaching  that  I  have 
had  since  I  was  a  child  at  my  mother's  knee,  as  well  as  from  this 
stand,  is  that  the  Constitution  of  our  country  was  written  by  men  in- 
spired of  the  Lord  God  Almighty.  Therefore  we,  as  Latter-day  Saints, 
more  than  any  other  people,  ought  to  be  supporters  of  the  Constitution, 
and  all  constitutional  law. 

I  read  a  clipping  from  a  great  financial  paper,  as  follows : 

"  'Pride  goeth  before  destruction  and  a  haughty  spirit  before  a  fall.' 
is  as  true  today  as  it  was  2,500  years  ago.  The  indications  of  surface  con- 
ditions are  not  satisfactory.  A  crime  wave  is  sweeping  the  country;  hope  is 
necessary  to  give  a  thrill  in  the  movies;  temperance  and  self-control  have  be- 
come a  joke;  observance  and  respect  for  law  are  considered  old-fashioned; 
honest  labor  is  looked  upon  as  something  to  be  avoided;  too  many  are  trying 
to  get  something  for  nothing  and  are  going  into  debt  for  needless  luxuries 
and  harmful  pleasures." 

LATTER-DAY    SAINTS    WARNED    AGAINST    DEBT    AND    WEALTH 

Right  here  let  me  warn  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  buy  automobiles 
and  to  buy  the  ordinary  necessities  of  life  when  they  have  the  money 
to  buy  them,  and  not  to  mortgage  their  future.  I  have  heard  of  people 
over  in  England  who  regularly  mortgage  their  Sunday  clothes  Monday 
morning  and  take  them  out  of  "hock"  the  next  Saturday  night.  I  want 
to  say  to  you  that  those  who  discount  their  future,  who  run  in  debt 
for  the  ordinary  necessities  of  life  and  for  the  luxuries  of  life,  are 
laying  burdens  upon  themselves  that  will  come  back  with  compound 
interest  to  cause  them  great  trouble  and  humiliation.    To  quote  again : 

"Nasty  magazines  are  building  up  great  circulations,  while  the  colleges  are 
closing  up  their  chapels  and  opening  up  smoking  rooms  for  the  women  students." 

Again  let  me  say  that  that  cannot  be  found  in  any  of  the  Church 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

schools  or  seminaries.     Once  more,  please  leave  out  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 

"I  sincerely  hope  that  these  things  are  merely  a  phase  and  that  the  American 
people  are  still  a  God-fearing  race.  If  not,  these  things  are  a  tremendous  in- 
dictment of  schools  and  colleges  as  well  as  parents.  Yes,  America  has  every 
material  blessing  at  the  present  time  and  if  we  will  keep  our  feet  on  the  ground, 
the  present  era  of  prosperity  should  continue  for  years.  On  the  other  hand, 
all  wealth  is  a  mere  tool  which  can  be  used  either  to  upbuild  or  to  destroy. 
Everything  depends  on  the  motives,  ambition  and  tastes  of  the  people  who  have 
this  tool  in  their  hands." 

Wealth  is  leading  to  folly  and  almost  to  that  which  would  be 
counted  as  sin.  Pope  says: 

"Vice  is  a  monster  of  so  frightful  mien, 
As,  to  be  hated,  needs  but  to  be  seen; 
But  seen  too  oft,  familiar  with  her  face, 
We  first  endure,  then  pity,  then  embrace." 

AVOID  SERVING  THE   GOD  OF   FASHION 

I  am  ashamed,  as  I  walk  the  streets  of  our  cities,  at  the  lack  of 
modesty  in  the  dresses,  not  only  of  our  young  people,  but  our  mothers 
and  even  grandmothers.  I  will  rejoice  when  there  shall  come  over 
this  land  again  an  increased  respect  for  the  sacredness  of  the  body 
and  a  willingness  on  the  part  of  our  good,  pure,  upright  ladies  to  dress 
themselves  in  a  more  becoming  manner.  I  shall  rejoice  when  the 
Latter-day  Saints  shall  endeavor  to  find  out  that  thing  which  will 
bring  to  them  and  to  their  posterity  peace  and  comfort  of  body  and  of 
mind.  The  Lord  said  that  he  was  a  jealous  God,  and  that  we  should 
serve  no  other  God  before  him.  So  we  should  not  serve  the  god  of 
fashion.  When  our  Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  Associations 
were  organized  they  were  organized  under  the  title  of  the  Young 
Ladies'  Retrenchment  Associations,  and  one  of  the  purposes  was  re- 
trenchment and  more  modesty  in  dressing;  and  I  shall  rejoice  if  the 
Lord  will  inspire  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  set  a  better  example  in  the 
future  than  they  are  setting  at  the  present  time. 

I  want  to  announce  that  I  shall  be  glad  if  we  will  quit  giving  no- 
tices to  the  papers  of  what  is  termed  "teas"  that  are  being  held  in  our 
homes.  I  read  of  a  "tea"  being  given  in  the  home  of  President  Heber 
J.  Grant,  and  of  the  "tea"  table  being  decorated.  There  is  no  tea  table 
in  the  home  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant.  There  has  been  no  tea 
served  either  to  our  friends  or  visitors,  in  the  home  of  Heber  J.  Grant. 
I  would  like  us  to  change  that  name  in  our  newspapers,  at  least  so  far 
as  Latter-day  Saints  are  concerned,  and  have  it  a  "social  gathering," 
or  a  lunch,  or  anything  you  have  a  mind  to  call  it,  and  quit  calling 
it  a  "tea"  when  every  Latter-day  Saint  is  asked  by  the  Lord  to  leave 
tea,  coffee  and  tobacco  alone. 

PROMISE   OF   GOD   TO  OBSERVERS   OF  THE   WORD  OF  WISDOM 

And  for  fear  I  forget  it,  I  want  to  read  to  you  one  of  the  most 
marvelous  and  wonderful  promises  that  God  has  made  to  every  Latter- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.   GRANT  9 

day  Saint  that  keeps  this  Word  of  Wisdom.    The  Word  of  Wisdom 
was  given,  as  stated,  only  three  years  after  the  Church  was  organized : 

"All  grain  is  ordained  for  the  use  of  man  and  of  beasts,  to  be  the  staff 
of  life,  not  only  for  man  but  for  beasts  of  the  field,  and  the  fowls  of  heaven, 
and  all  wild  animals  that  run  or  creep  on  the  earth; 

"And  these  hath  God  made  for  the  use  of  man  only  in  times  of  famine 
and  excess  of  hunger." 

It  is  being  acknowledged  by  the  great  doctors  today  that  an  ex- 
cessive use  of  meat  is  not  good  for  humanity,  and  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
teaches  us  that: 

"All  grain  is  good  for  the  food  of  man;  as  also  the  fruit  of  the  vine; 
that  which  yieldeth  fruit,  whether  in  the  ground  or  above  the  ground — 

"Nevertheless,  wheat  for  man,  and  corn  for  the  ox,  and  oats  for  the 
horses,  and  rye  for  the  fowls  and  for  swine,  and  for  all  beasts  of  the  field, 
and  barley  for  all  useful  animals,  and  for  mild  drinks,  as  also  other  grain." 

Now  listen,  all  ye  Latter-day  Saints,  to  the  word  of  the  Lord 
and  the  promise  of  the  Creator  of  heaven  and  earth : 

"And  all  Saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking 
in  obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel  and 
marrow  in  their  bones; 

"And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures; 

"And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint. 

"And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying  angel 
shall  pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them.     Amen." 

What  a  marvelous  promise!  And  as  there  is  no  promise  made  by 
the  Lord  only  upon  the  condition  that  we  fulfil  the  law  upon  which 
that  promise  is  predicated,  the  law  of  life  and  health  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  to  obey  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

THE  SUPPORT  OF  HOME  INSTITUTIONS 

Generally  at  these  conferences  I  have  made  just  a  few  remarks 
about  supporting  our  home  institutions,  I  thought  I  would  simply  read 
what  I  said  once  before : 

"The  support  of  home  institutions  is  the  main  foundation  of  any 
state's  prosperity.  The  support  of  home  industries  keeps  money  at  home, 
furnishes  employment,  reduces  cost  and  insures  prosperity.  If  all  the  people 
of  Utah  and  the  other  intermountain  States  would  adopt  the  principle  of 
buying  the  product  of  the  factories  of  the  Intermountain  territory,  most  of 
our  industrial  problems  would  vanish. 

"From  the  earliest  days  the  people  of  Utah  have  been  taught  to  support 
home  industries,  and  to  keep  money  at  home.  Where  the  advice  has  been 
followed  prosperity  has  resulted.  Now,  more  than  ever,  the  people  of  the 
Intermountain  country  should  stand  together  and  support  the  institutions 
which  are  assisting  in  the  up-building  of  the  territory." 

APPEAL  TO  FARMERS  ON  THE  SUGAR  INDUSTRY 

I  want  to  say  a  word  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  regarding  the  beet 
sugar  industry.    The  credit  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

day  Saints  was  utilized  to  the  extent  of  something  over  $3,000,000  a 
few  years  ago  in  borrowing  and  loaning  money  to  the  sugar  industry, 
to  keep  it  from  going  into  the  hands  of  the  receiver.  This  industry 
was  established  by  the  Church  running  in  debt  to  secure  the  money 
to  build  the  very  first  factory  that  was  ever  built  in  the  United  States 
of  America  with  American  machinery,  for  the  manufacture  of  beet 
sugar,  and  the  Church  has  always  fostered  the  industry. 

I  appeal  to  you  farmers,  every  one  of  you,  in  all  the  various  parts 
of  Utah  and  Idaho,  and  in  Canada  now — wherever  a  sugar  factory 
has  been  established — to  support  those  factories  by  planting  a  goodly 
portion  of  suitable  land  in  beets  which  may  be  manufactured  into 
sugar.  A  great  many  of  the  farmers  seem  to  feel  that  they  are  under 
no  obligation  whatever  to  support  these  factories,  some  of  which  have 
been  built  upon  the  earnest  solicitation  and  upon  the  absolute  pledge 
of  the  farmers  that  they  would  furnish  so  many  thousand  acres  of  beets 
for  each  factory.  Several  of  these  factories  have  had  to  remain  idle. 
Why  ?    Because  these  pledges  have  not  been  fulfilled. 

Our  Lord  and  Savior  said: 

"Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy 
soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind. 

"This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment. 

"And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself." 

As  one  of  your  neighbors,  who  has  labored  diligently  and  invested 
all  he  had  originally,  and  lost  every  dollar  of  it,  in  establishing  this 
great  industry,  I  appeal  to  you  farmers  to  love  me  and  others  who 
established  it.  My  personal  stock  amounts  to  very  little,  I  could  not  sell 
it  today  for  $500,  but  the  Church  has  invested  several  million  dollars 
in  establishing  and  maintaining  this  industry  for  the  benefit  of  the 
farmers.  Therefore,  I  appeal  to  you  to  have  no  idle  beet  sugar  factories 
in  your  communities ;  and  by  supporting  these  factories  you  will  bring 
additional  money  into  your  communities,  and  will  be  fulfilling  the 
second  great  commandment ;  to  love  your  neighbors. 

WHAT  THE  CHURCH  REQUESTS  AS  TO  CARD  PLAYING 

By  the  way,  I  hear  that  card  playing  is  becoming  very,  very 
popular,  and  that  the  Church  must  be  in  favor  of  card-playing  because 
the  Church  authorities  never  say  anything  against  it.  From  the  time 
I  was  a  child  and  read  the  Juvenile  Instructor,  published  for  the  benefit 
of  the  people,  I  have  read  nothing  except  condemnation  of  card-playing 
and  the  wasting  of  your  time  in  doing  something  that  brings  no  good, 
bodily,  intellectually  or  in  any  way,  and  sometimes  leads  your  children 
to  become  gamblers,  because  they  become  expert  card-players.  The 
Church  as  a  Church  requests  its  members  not  to  play  cards.  I  hope 
you  understand  me,  and  I  want  you  to  know  that  I  am  speaking  for 
the  Church  when  I  ask  the  people  to  let  cards  alone. 

SUSTAIN   THE  DESERET    NEWS 

Again   I   am   speaking   for  the   Church   when  I  ask   Latter-day 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.   GRANT  11 

Saints  to  sustain  the  newspaper  published  by  the  Church.  I  have 
gone  into  the  homes  of  bishops  and  other  leading  families  in  this 
Church,  and  have  failed  to  find  The  Deseret  Evening  News.  We  desire 
the  support  of  The  Deseret  News  because  it  is  your  paper.  We  are 
the  Church  and  the  Church  owns  The  Deseret  News,  and  if  you  make 
it  a  great  financial  success  you  will  be  sharing  in  that  success  be- 
cause it  is  your  paper.  And  I  want  to  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints 
that  there  have  been  a  score  or  more  of  speeches  published  in  The 
News  in  the  past  year,  nearly  every  one  of  which  to  my  mind  was 
worth  the  price  of  The  Deseret  News.  I  called  up  an  influential 
man  the  other  day  and  asked  if  he  had  read  one,  two  or  three  of  those 
sermons.  He  said  no.  I  want  to  tell  you  that  a  sermon  by  one  of  the 
greatest  educational  minds  in  Utah,  (I  doubt  there  is  a  superior 
one)  Dr.  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  over  the  radio  and  subsequently  enlarged 
upon  from  this  stand,  was  published  in  The  News.  I  would  not  take 
a  fifty  dollar  bill  for  it  if  I  could  not  get  it  again. 

We  are  here — for  what?  For  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  we  get  it  in  The  Deseret  News.  I  will  say  to  you  that  one  of  the 
finest  sermons  on  Priesthood  that  I  have  listened  to — (by  the  way,  I 
did  not  listen  to  it,"  but  I  read  it  in  The  Neius) — was  by  one  of  the 
great  lawyers  of  America,  one  of  the  international  lawyers,  a  man 
honored  by  our  country  to  be  called  to  Washington  in  the  great  con- 
ference on  disarmament,  J.  Reuben  Clark.  You  did  not  read  it  if  you 
do  not  take  The  News.  It  was  a  splendid  talk.  I  want  to  say  to  you 
that  the  talks  by  Adam  Bennion  and  by  Milton  Bennion  are  worth  the 
price  of  The  News  for  a  year.  I  will  have  to  stop  talking  about  The 
News,  or  I  won't  get  through  with  the  other  things  I  want  to  say. 

AUTHORITIES    ABSENT     FROM     CONFERENCE 

There  are  absent  today  of  the  General  Authorities,  Elders  Reed 
Smoot,  James  E.  Talmage,  and  Melvin  J.  Ballard  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  Elder  Reed  Smoot,  as  you  all  know,  is  a  Senator  from  Utah, 
and  thank  the  Lord  for  such  a  senator,  a  man  who  has  gained  for  him- 
self a  national  and  an  international  reputation  for  his  honesty,  for 
his  integrity,  and  for  his  great  and  wonderful  ability,  and  he  stands 
today  at  the  head  of  the  greatest  committee  in  the  senate  of  the  United 
States.  I  remember  when  ex-President  Taft  was  here  he  said,  with 
that  little  chuckle  of  his  that  made  us  all  laugh,  "And  to  think  that 
when  he  first  came  down  to  Washington  nearly  everybody  tried  to  keep 
him  out  of  the  senate.  Now  I  have  come  all  the  way  to  Utah  to  plead 
with  the  people  to  be  sure  and  send  him  back  again." 

Elder  James  E.  Talmage  is  doing  a  wonderful  and  splendid  work 
in  the  British  Isles  as  president  of  the  European  mission.  Elder  Tal- 
mage, as  you  know,  is  a  Fellow  of  the  Royal  Society  of  Edinburgh, 
and  the  distinction  of  being  a  member  of  one  of  the  greatest  scientific 
societies  in  the  world  has  enabled  him  to  get  favorable  articles  into 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

the  newspapers,  in  such  a  way  as  we  have  never  been  able  to  do  before 
in  the  British  Isles. 

Elder  Melvin  J.  Ballard  is  opening  a  mission,  as  you  all  know, 
in  South  America,  and  is  meeting  with  some  success. 

Elder  Brigham  H.  Roberts  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  has 
appointments  in  the  East,  and  on  account  of  the  death  of  his  wife 
and  having  to  come  here  to  her  funeral,  he  has  been  excused  from 
this  conference.  He  is  accomplishing  a  remarkable  and  wonderful 
labor  in  the  Eastern  States. 

Elder  Rey  L.  Pratt  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  is  with  Brother 
Ballard  in  South  America. 

Elder  Rulon  S.  Wells  of  the  same  council  went  to  South  America, 
as  you  all  know,  but  on  account  of  ill  health  had  to  return. 

Splendid  missionary  work  is  being  done  by  all  those  who  are  en- 
gaged in  the  different  missions  in  the  United  States  and  all  over  the 
world,  for  which  we  are  grateful. 

CALLS  FOR  MISSIONARIES 

We  have  calls  for  missionaries  from  every  quarter  of  the  globe — 
more  missionaries,  more  missionaries.  The  lady  missionaries,  we  want 
it  understood,  are  called  to  labor  only  in  the  United  States.  There 
are  requests  coming  constantly  that  we  send  lady  missionaries  to  other 
parts  of  the  world,  but  we  feel  it  is  a  mistake  to  send  our  sisters  further 
away. 

A  very  remarkable  and  splendid  work  has  been  done  by  the  short 
term  missionaries  that  were  sent  out.  We  regret  that  the  call  came 
so  late,  and  many  of  them  have  only  been  able  to  stay  in  the  field 
three  months,  some  of  them  four  and  some  of  them  five  months.  We 
hope  we  can  have  more  short-term  missionaries,  and  that  they  will 
be  able  to  spend  the  full  six  months  in  the  mission  field.  Some  of  the 
accomplishments  of  these  men  have  been  very  remarkable.  Men  of 
experience,  men  of  testimony,  and  of  undying  faith  in  the  gospel  have 
brought  many  souls  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth.  Perhaps  some  of  our 
school  teachers  during  their  vacations  can  volunteer  and  will  be  willing 
to  do  missionary  work. 

AN  EASTER  GREETING 

This  is  Easter,  and  I  wish  to  read  to  you  a  greeting  that  was 
published  in  The  Deseret  Evening  News  for  Christmas  and  I  believe 
it  is  equally  as  appropriate  for  Easter  Sunday : 

Greetings  from  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints: 

As  Christmas  tide  approaches  our  minds  revert  to  that  never  to  be  for- 
gotten night  when  shepherds  who  were  watching  their  flocks  on  the  hills  of 
Judea  were  startled  as  the  glory  of  the  Lord  shone  round  about  them,  and  the 
angel  of  the  Lord  stood  before  them  and  said :  "Fear  not,  for  behold  I  bring  you 
good  tidings  of  great  joy,  which  shall  be  to  all  people. 

"For  unto  you  is  born  this  day,  in  the  City  of  David,  a  Savior  which 
is  Christ  the  Lord. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  13 

"And  suddenly  there  was  with  the  angel  a  multitude  of  the  heavenly  hosts, 
praising  God  and  saying,  Glory  to  God  in  the  highest,  and  on  earth  peace,  good 
will  toward  men." 

It  was  a  night  which  was  distinct  from  all  other  nights  which  had  come 
and  gone  since  the  creation  of  the  earth. 

The  birth  of  Christ  our  Lord  was  more  than  an  incident,  it  was  an  epoch  in 
the  history  of  the  world  to  which  prophets  had  looked  forward,  of  which  poets 
had  sung,  and  in  which  angels  joined  their  voices  with  mortals  in  praise  to 
God.  It  was  the  day  decreed  and  foreordained  by  our  Father  who  is  in 
heaven  when  he  would  manifest  himself  to  his  children,  who  are  here  upon  earth, 
in  the  person  of  his  Only  Begotten  Son. 

Whether  or  not  the  25th  day  of  December  is  the  proper  date  of  the  birth 
of  Christ,  our  Lord,  matters  little.  We  join  with  other  Christian  people  in 
celebrating  it  as  such  and  if  we  observe  it  in  the  true  spirit  of  the  Master, 
renewing  the  covenant  which  we  have  made  that  we  are  willing  to  take  upon  us 
his  name,  and  keep  the  commandments  which  he  has  given,  our  offering  will 
be  accepted. 

He  came  that  man  might  see  and  know  God  as  he  is,  for  he  bore  witness 
that  whoever  had  seen  him  had  seen  the  Father,  for  he  was  the  express 
image  of  his  person. 

He  came  to  teach  us  the  character  of  God,  and  by  example  and  precept 
pointed  out  the  path  which,  if  we  walk  in  it,  will  lead  us  back  into  his  presence. 
He  came  to  break  the  bands  of  death  with  which  man  was  bound,  and  made  pos- 
sible the  resurrection  by  which  the  grave  is  robbed  of  its  victory  and  death 
of  its  sting. 

After  his  crucifixion  and  the  death  of  the  apostles  whom  he  had  chosen,  who 
suffered  martyrdom  at  the  hands  of  those  who  were  opposed  to  the  truths  which 
he  taught,  it  appeared  that  his  mission  and  ministry  had  been  a  failure;  but 
as  time  passed,  and  the  doctrines  of  Christianity  became  better  understood, 
thoughtful  men  turned  to  him  as  their  source  of  light  and  strength,  thus  pre- 
serving faith  in  his  mission  and  ministry,  with  the  result  that  Christianity  became 
the  dominant  influence  in  the  civilization  and  development  of  the  world. 

As  time  passed  dissensions  occurred  in  the  primitive  church.  The  laws 
governing  the  church  established  by  the  Redeemer,  were  transgressed,  the  ordin- 
ances were  changed,  the  everlasting  covenant  was  broken.  Men  began  to  teach 
for  doctrine  their  own  commandments ;  a  form  of  worship  had  been  established 
which  was  called  Christianity,  but  was  without  the  power  of  God  which  char- 
acterized the  primitive  church.  Spiritual  darkness  covered  the  earth  and  gross 
darkness  the  minds  of  the  people. 

Then  there  came  another  epochal  period  in  the  history  of  the  world.  The  time 
had  arrived,  fore-ordained  by  the  Lord,  and  foretold  by  his  prophets,  when  an- 
other gospel  dispensation  was  to  be  ushered  in,  when  the  gospel  of  the  kingdom 
was  to  be  restored,  and  preached  in  all  the  world,  as  a  witness  unto  all  people 
before  the  end  shall  come. 

Again  the  heavens  rejoiced,  again  heavenly  beings  communicated  the  will 
of  the  Father  to  his  children  who  are  here  upon  the  earth,  and  men  were  made 
glad  as  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times  was  ushered  in. 

Joseph  Smith  was  the  agent  through  whom  the  Lord  saw  fit  to  begin 
the  great  latter-day  work.  To  him  the  Father  and  Son  appeared  in  heavenly 
vision,  upon  him  the  keys  of  the  everlasting  priesthood  were  conferred,  with 
authority  to  transmit  them  to  others,  with  the  promise  that  the  priesthood  should 
never  be  taken  from  the  earth  again,  until  the  purposes  of  the  Father  were 
accomplished. 

Under  his  direction  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was 
organized  on  the  6th  day  of  April,  1830,  and  the  command  given  to  its  members  to 
bear  the  gospel  message  to  all  people,  calling  them  to  repentance  and  faith  in 
Christ,  the  Only  Begotten  Son  of  God  in  the  flesh,  with  the  promise  that  who- 


14  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

soever  should  repent  and  obey  would  know,  by  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that 
the  message  which  they  brought  was  true. 

As  the  result  of  this  message  many  thousands  of  people  have  been  gathered 
out  from  the  various  nations  where  the  gospel  has  been  preached  and  brought 
to  Zion,  the  place  designated  by  the  Lord  as  the  gathering  place  of  Latter- 
day  Israel.  The  desert  has  been  made  glad  because  of  them,  and  has  been 
converted  into  fruitful  fields.  Springs  of  living  water  have  broken  out  to  moisten 
the  thirsty  land,  and  cities  have  sprung  up  where  before  was  only  desolation 
and  wilderness.  Music  and  the  voices  of  children  are  heard  in  the  streets  where 
silence  had  reigned  supreme. 

It  is  the  Lord  our  God,  through  his  Only  Begotten  Son,  who  has  done  it. 
To  him  be  the  praise  and  glory  forever. 

We  exhort  our  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  Church,  wherever  they  may  be, 
to  remain  steadfast  in  their  faith.  Hold  fast  to  the  word  of  the  Lord,  which 
is  the  iron  rod  that  will  lead  us  to  the  Tree  of  Life. 

To  the  people  of  the  world  we  appeal  to  come  unto  Christ,  through  whom 
redemption  cometh  to  all  those  who  take  upon  them  his  name,  and  keep  the 
commandments  which  he  has  given.  We  bear  witness  that  the  fulness  of  his 
gospel  has  been  restored,  that  his  Church  is  established,  and  will  continue  to 
spread  until  peace  shall  prevail  among  men,  and  his  kingdom  come  and  his  will 
be  done  upon  earth  as  it  is  d.one  in  heaven.     O  Lord,  hasten  that  glorious  day. 

HEBER  J.  GRANT, 
ANTHONY  W.   IVINS, 
CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY, 

First   Presidency. 

God  bless  you.    Amen. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

I  sincerely  desire,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  during  the  few  moments 
of  time  that  I  may  occupy,  that  I  may  have  the  benefit  of  your  faith, 
exercised  in  my  behalf.  I  appreciate  fully  the  responsibility  which  I 
assume,  as  I  stand  here  professing  to  teach  the  doctrines  of  our  Lord, 
Jesus  Christ. 

THE   ADVICE   OF   GAMALIEL 

The  scripture  which  I  am  about  to  read  I  have  often  quoted 
before,  but  it  appears  so  appropriate  to  the  subject  which  I  desire 
briefly  to  discuss  that  it  will  bear  repetition.  The  apostles  who  had 
been  chosen  by  our  Lord  had  been  imprisoned  by  those  who  were  op- 
posed to  the  doctrines  which  they  taught,  and  had  been  arraigned 
before  the  Jewish  high  priests,  by  whom  they  were  accused  of  violating 
the  law.  When  opportunity  was  granted  them  to  speak  in  their 
own  behalf,  Peter  stood  up  and  said  : 

"The  God  of  our  fathers  raised  up  Jesus,  whom  ye  slew  and  hanged 
on  a  tree. 

"Him  hath  God  exalted  with  his  right  hand  to  be  a  Prince  and  a  Savior, 
for  to  give  repentance  to  Israel,  and  forgiveness  of  sins. 

"And  we  are  his  witnesses"  of  these  things ;  and  so  is  also  the  Holy  Ghost, 
whom  God  hath  given  to  them  that  obey  him. 

"When  they  heard  that,  they  were  cut  to  ,the  heart,  and  took  counsel  to 
slay  them, 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS  15 

"Then  stood  there  up  one  in  the  council,  a  Pharisee,  named  Gamaliel,  a 
doctor  of  the  law,  had  in  reputation  among  all  the  people,  and  commanded  to  put 
the  apostles  forth  a  little  space ;  and  said  unto  them : 

"Ye  men  of  Israel,  take*  heed  to  yourselves  what  ye  intend  to  do  as 
touching  these  men.     *     *     * 

"For  if  this  counsel  or  this  work  be  of  men,  it  will  come  to  nought: 
But  if  it  be  of  God,  ye  cannot  overthrow  it." 

NORWAY   DECIDES    THE   "MORMONS"   ARE   NOT    CHRISTIANS 

During  the  past  ninety-six  years  the  restored  gospel  of  Christ 
has  been  preached  in  both  the  old  and  the  new  world  without  serious 
governmental  opposition,  or  objection  on  the  part  of  the  people  at  large. 

From  the  time  of  its  introduction  into  the  Scandinavian,  and  other 
countries  of  Europe,  people  who  appear  to  have  been  prepared  for  the 
gospel  before  they  heard  it  have  joyfully  accepted  the  message  which 
the  elders  of  the  Church  have  carried  to  them,  and  the  converts  who 
have  been  gathered  out  from  among  those  nations  have  become  a 
pillar  of  strength  to  the  Church. 

To  our  surprise  and  regret  the  friendly  relations  which  have  so  long 
existed  have  recently  become  greatly  disturbed,  because  of  the  fact  that 
our  missionaries  have  been  refused  admittance  to  Norway,  where, 
before,  they  had  enjoyed  the  privileges  accorded  to  other  religious 
organizations.  Upon  inquiry  regarding  the  reason  for  this  changed 
attitude  we  were  informed  that  representatives  of  the  Christian  churches 
of  the  country,  in  convention  assembled,  had  passed  resolutions  to  the 
effect  that  the  "Mormon"  Church  is  not  a  Christian  organization,  and 
consequently  we  were  not  entitled  to  the  privileges,  and  protection 
under  the  law  which  we  have  hitherto  enjoyed. 

Our  protest  against  this  ruling  was  answered  by  the  statement 
that  the  only  means  by  which  it  could  be  modified  would  be  for  a  con- 
ference of  churches  to  assemble,  and  officially  declare  that  the  jury 
which,  without  having  given  us  an  opportunity  to  be  heard  in  our  own 
behalf,  had  decided  that  we  were  guilty,  must  meet  and  reverse  the 
decision  which  they  had  rendered,  a  court  before  which  we  could  ex- 
pect no  more  of  justice  than  was  accorded  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
when  arraigned  before  the  Jewish  Sanhedrin. 

A  CONVENTION  OF  CHURCHES  IN  THIS  LAND  DECLARES  US  UNCHRISTIAN 

From  the  published  account  of  the  proceedings  of  the  general 
assembly  of  a  convention  of  representatives  of  one  of  the  great  churches 
of  our  own  country,  held  during  the  year  just  passed,  I  quote  as  follows  : 

"The  American  Islam.  Thus  has  the  'Mormon'  area  often  been 
characterized.  It  is  an  apt  figure  of  speech.  Those  who  live  and  labor 
in  the  atmosphere  of  this  Islam  of  America,  know  what  it  means  to  go 
up  against  a  stone  wall,  with  scarcely  ever  feeling  it  give  a  little.  The 
'Mormon'  has,  to  date,  been  far  more  zealous  to  convert  the  Christian, 
than  the  Christian  has  to  convert  him." 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Islamism,  as  you  are  aware,  is  the  religion  of  Mohammed.  In  one 
respect  it  is  a  good  religion,  for  it  at  least  teaches  faith  in,  and  service 
to  a  living  God,  the  God  of  Abraham,  but  it  does  not  recognize  Jesus 
Christ  as  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  or  as  the  Son  of  God. 

From  the  foregoing,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  you  will  observe  that 
the  Church  of  which  you  are  members  is  declared,  both  in  the  old 
world,  and  here  in  our  own  country,  to  be  an  un-Christian  organiza- 
tion, and  as  a  consequence  you  are  declared  to  be  not  Christians. 

BOTH  DECLARATIONS  INEXCUSABLE  AND  UNTRUE 

Had  statements  such  as  those  been  made  ninety-six  years  ago, 
soon  after  the  organization  of  the  Church,  when  means  of  obtaining 
information  was  limited,  and  the  history  and  accomplishments  of  the 
Church  were  before  it,  and  not  behind,  there  might  have  been  some 
reason  for  the  exercise  of  charity  towards  the  persons  responsible  for 
the  publication  of  such  statements  to  the  people  of  the  world,  but  now, 
after  the  lapse  of  nearly  a  century,  after  the  doctrines  of  the  Church 
have  been  expounded  to  the  people  of  all  civilized  countries,  after 
millions  of  publications  setting  forth  the  doctrines  of  the  Church  have 
been  distributed,  such  statements  can  only  be  regarded  as  the  result 
of  either  inexcusable  ignorance  or  wilful  desire  to  deceive  the  people, 
by  statements  which  are  known  to  be  untrue. 

WHAT   CONSTITUTES  A   CHRISTIAN? 

The  situation  suggests  the  question :  What  constitutes  a  Christian 
Church,  a  Christian  community  or  individual,  and  by  what  rule,  of 
tribunal  is  a  question  of  such  vital  importance  to  be  decided  ? 

I  suppose  the  general  answer  would  be :  A!  Christian  is  one  who 
professes  faith  in,  and  follows  the  teachings  of  Christ,  and  that  a  body 
of  people,  organized  as  a  worshiping  assembly,  professing  faith  in 
the  Redeemer,  would  be  regarded  as  a  Christian  church. 

During  the  earliest  history  of  the  Primitive  Church  its  members 
were  not  referred  to  as  Christians,  but  as  brethren,  disciples  or 
saints.  It  was  at  Antioch,  as  I  remember,  about  ten  years  after  the 
crucifixion,  that  the  followers  of  the  Redeemer  were  first  called 
Christians,  a  name  applied  to  them  in  derision,  or  contempt  which 
they  accepted  very  much  as  we  have  accepted  the  name  "Mormon," 
because  we  accept  the  Book  of  Mormon  as  a  divine  revelation  from 
the  Lord. 

The  first  use  of  the  word  church,  applied  to  the  followers  of 
Christ,  so  far  as  I  am  aware,  was  by  the  Redeemer  himself  when  he 
declared  to  Peter  that  upon  the  rock  of  revelation  he  would  build  his 
Church,  and  that  the  gates  of  hell  should  not  prevail  against  it,  a  very 
significant  statement,  a  plain  declaration  that  revelation  is  the  founda- 
tion upon  which  the  Church  must  rest. 

We  are  told  that  the  apostles,  as  they  traveled  from  place  to  place, 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS  17 

preaching  to  the  people,  ordained  elders  in  every  church,  and  after 
commending  the  converted  members  to  the  Lord  passed  on  to  other 
fields.  Thus  the  entire  body  of  converts  became  known  as  the  Church 
of  Christ,  he  being  declared  to  be  its  head,  the  Church  being  subject 
to  him  in  all  things. 

THE  ANSWER  GIVEN  IN  THE  WORDS  OF  OUR  LORD  AND  HIS  DISCIPLES 

I  know  of  no  better  authority  on  the  question  than  the  words  of 
our  Lord,  and  those  of  his  disciples,  who  followed  after  him. 

Before  an  organization  could  be  formed  which  could  be  designated 
as  a  church,  it  was  necessary  that  converts  be  made  to  the  divinity  of 
the  Redeemer,  and  the  importance  of  the  message  which  he  brought 
to  the  people  of  the  world.  His  doctrine,  or  as  he  taught,  the  doctrine 
of  his  Father  who  sent  him,  as  he  expounded  it  in  his  memorable  sermon 
on  the  mount,  teaches  us  the  manner  of  life  we  should  lead  in  order 
that  we  may  be  worthy  to  be  called  Christians. 

He  taught  us  to  overcome  the  evil  habits  of  the  world,  its  pride 
and  selfishness,  becoming  humble  in  spirit,  and  promised  that  by  so 
doing  we  should  inherit  the  blessings  of  the  earth.  He  taught  us  that 
we  are  to  be  peace-makers,  if  we  are  to  become  the  children  of  God. 
That  our  example  should  be  such  that  others  seeing  our  good  works, 
would  be  led  to  glorify  the  name  of  our  Father  who  is  in  heaven. 
That,  as  we  hope  for  mercy,  we  should  be  merciful.  That  we  should 
not  sit  in  judgment  upon  others,  for  by  the  judgment  with  which  we 
judge,  so  shall  we  be  judged.  That  we  should  not  seek  to  exalt 
ourselves,  for  he  who  exalteth  himself  shall  be  abased.  That  we 
should  be  charitable,  but  admonishing  us  that  if  we  give  alms  to  be  seen 
of  men,  for  our  own  glory,  it  availeth  us  nothing. 

His  entire  doctrine  was  one  which  requires  that  men  withdraw 
from  the  ambition,  selfishness  and  strife  of  the  world,  and  dedicate 
themselves  to  the  service  of  the  Lord,  and  their  fellow  men,  and  he 
covenanted  that  if  they  will  do  so  the  necessary  temporal  blessings 
shall  be  conferred  upon  them,  as  a  reward  for  righteousness. 

He  declared  another  doctrine  of  great  importance  in  that  remark- 
able discourse,  that  not  all  who  say  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the 
kingdom  of  heaven,  but  he  who  doeth  the  will  of  our  Father  who 
is  in  heaven. 

Therefore  he  said,  whosoever  heareth  these  sayings  of  mine 
and  doeth  them,  I  will  liken  him  to  a  wise  man  who  built  his  house 
upon  a  rock.  And  the  rains  descended,  and  the  floods  came,  and  the 
winds  blew  and  beat  upon  that  house,  and  it  fell  not,  for  it  was 
founded  upon  a  rock.  And  he  who  heareth  these  sayings  of  mine  and 
doeth  them  not  shall  be  likened  unto  a  foolish  man,  who  built  his  house 
upon  sand,  and  the  rains  descended,  and  the  floods  came,  and  the  winds 
blew  and  beat  upon  that  house,  and  it  fell,  for  it  was  founded  upon 
sand,  and  great  was  the  fall  of  it. 


18  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

The  acceptance  of  these  first  principles  of  the  gospel  were  in- 
dispensable, but  not  sufficient  to  entitle  one  to  be  called  a  Christian. 
He  must  manifest  his  faith  by  accepting  the  ordinance  of  baptism, 
an  ordinance  which  was  administered  to  the  Redeemer  himself  by  John 
the  Baptist,  an  ordinance  without  which  our  Lord  declared  a  man 
cannot  enter  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

Nor  was  baptism  alone  sufficient.  John  declared  that  his  baptism 
was  with  water  for  the  remission  of  sin,  but  that  one  who  would  come 
after  him  would  baptize  with  fire  and  the  Holy  Ghost. 

THE    CHRISTIAN    CHURCH    DEFINED 

When  Paul  came  to  Ephesus  he  found  certain  disciples  and  asked  if 
they  had  received  the  Holy  Ghost.  They  answered  we  have  not  so  much 
as  heard  that  there  be  any  Holy  Ghost.  Unto  what  then  were  you 
baptized,  he  asked,  and  they  replied  unto  John's  baptism.  They  were 
then  baptized  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  when  Paul  had  laid 
his  hands  upon  them  they  received  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Those  who  believed,  and  subjected  themselves  to  the  administra- 
tion of  these  simple  first  ordinances  of  the  Church  became  Christians. 
They  had  manifested  their  faith  in  Christ,  in  his  divinity,  his  death, 
and  above  all  his  resurrection  from  the  grave  by  being  buried  in  the 
water  of  baptism,  in  similitude  of  his  death,  and  coming  up  from  it  with 
their  sins  washed  away,  born  to  newness  of  life,  as  he  arose  to  newness 
of  life,  with  his  glorified,  resurrected  body. 

Then  came  the  climax,  when,  by  laying  on  of  hands  by  those  in 
authority  the  Holy  Ghost  was  conferred  upon  the  baptized  believer : 
The  Holy  Ghost,  which  takes  of  the  things  of  the  Father  and  mani- 
fests them  unto  man,  which  bears  witness  of  the  Father  and  the  Son, 
not  in  a  voice  audible  to  our  ordinary  sense  of  hearing,  but  at  the  same 
time  more  potent  and  convincing  than  any  words  the  human  voice 
can  utter;  the  Holy  Ghost  which  leads  us  into  all  truth  and  is 
an  unfailing  source  of  strength,  wisdom  and  knowledge  so  long  as 
we  permit  ourselves  to  be  guided  by  its  unerring  counsels. 

Such  a  person  became  a  Christian,  and  an  association  of  such 
people  became  a  Christian  church. 

That  a  church  may  be  brought  into  existence  and  endure  it  must 
be  properly  organized,  with  officers  to  preside  over  it  and  direct  the 
conduct  of  its  affairs,  and  these  our  Lord  provided  through  the  Twelve 
Apostles  whom  he  chose,  and  the  quorums  of  the  lesser  priesthood  with 
their  helps  in  government,  an  organization  complete  in  every  detail, 
conferring  upon  the  men  chosen  the  keys  of  authority  which  belong 
to  the  priesthood,  and  which  authorize  them  to  act  in  the  direction 
of  the  affairs  of  the  Church. 

That  any  group  of  persons  may  associate  themselves  together  as 
a  worshiping  assembly,  and  call  themselves  a  church  is  conceded,  and 
they  are  at  liberty  to  choose  any  name  they  may  desire  by  which  their 
organization  shall  be  known.     For  all  the  good  which  such  an  organ- 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IV INS  19 

ization  may  accomplish  the  Lord  will  give  them  credit,  and  they  will 
be  rewarded  for  their  efforts  to  establish  faith  in  the  hearts  of  peo- 
ple, I  believe  far  beyond  their  expectations,  for  everything  that 
is  good,  and  persuadeth  men  to  do  good,  cometh  from  God.  The 
Latter-day  Saints  wish  all  people  who  are  thus  striving  God-speed. 

CALAMITIES    THAT    FOLLOWED 

After  the  crucifixion  of  the  Redeemer,  and  the  death  of  the  apostles 
whom  he  had  chosen,  all  of  whom  suffered  violent  death  because  of 
their  faith,  with  the  exception  of  John  the  Revelator,  many  different 
religious  sects  came  into  existence,  numbers  of  them  professing  Christ- 
ianity, but  teaching  doctrines  at  variance  with  those  taught  by  the 
Redeemer  and  his  disciples. 

Prior  to  his  crucifixion,  our  Lord  plainly  outlined  to  his  disciples 
that  the  time  was  approaching  when  he  would  be  offered  up,  when 
he  would  leave  them,  but  promised  that  at  a  future  time  he  would  return 
and  consummate  the  work  which  he  had  commenced.  Upon  one  oc- 
casion, as  he  sat  on  the  Mount  of  Olives,  his  disciples  came  to  him 
and  asked  when  these  things  should  be,  and  what  would  be  the  sign 
of  his  coming  and  of  the  end  of  the  world. 

The  Redeemer  outlined  the  conditions  which  would  prevail  at 
the  time  when  he  would  come  in  glory,  in  the  clouds  of  heaven,  with 
such  detail  and  accuracy  that  one  who  lives  at  the  present  time  may 
read  as  he  runs,  and  know  that  he  lives  in  the  day  to  which  Christ 
referred.  Read  the  twenty-fourth  and  twenty-fifth  chapters  of  the 
Gospel  according  to  St.  Matthew,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  you 
desire  to  know  more  of  the  tremendous  importance  of  the  dispensation 
in  which  you  live. 

Upon  this  occasion  he  said  to  his  disciples :  "Take  heed  that  no 
man  deceive  you.  For  many  shall  come  in  my  name,  saying,  I  am  Christ; 
and  shall  deceive  many."  For  there  shall  be  false  Christs  and  false 
prophets,  who  if  it  were  possible  would  deceive  the  very  elect.  And 
they  shall  deliver  you  up  to  be  afflicted,  and  you  shall  be  hated  of 
all  nations  for  my  name's  sake,  and,  most  important '  of  all,  this  gospel 
of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached  in  all  the  world,  as  a  witness  unto 
all  people,  and  then  shall  the  end  come. 

The  Prophet  Isaiah  says:  "Behold  the  Lord  maketh  the  earth 
empty,  and  maketh  it  waste,  and  turneth  it  upside  down,  and  scattereth 
abroad  the  inhabitants  thereof.  The  land  shall  be  utterly  emptied  and 
spoiled." 

THE  REASON   FOR  APOSTASY  AND   CALAMITIES 

Why  are  these  dire  calamities  decreed?  The  prophet  makes  the 
reason  clear,  it  is  because  both  priest  and  people  have  transgressed  the 
law  of  the  Lord,  changed  the  ordinances  of  his  Church  and  broken 
the  everlasting  covenant.  Our  Lord  gave  us  the  key  by  which  we  may 
know  the  voice  of  the  good  Shepherd  when  this  time  of  confusion  and 


20  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

distress  is  upon  us.  When  his  disciples  asked  him  whither  they  should 
go,  or  look,  he  replied :  "Wheresoever  the  carcase  is  there  will  the  eagles 
be  gathered  together,"  and,  wherever  the  true  Church  of  Christ  is,  there 
will  the  fruits  of  his  gospel  be  manifested  in  the  lives  of  the  people. 

WHY   THE   CHURCH    OF   JESUS   CHRIST   OF   LATTER-DAY    SAINTS    IS   A 
CHRISTIAN    CHURCH 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  a  Christian 
Church  in  the  fullest  sense  of  the  word,  the  declarations  of  the  so-called 
Christian  churches  of  the  world  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding.  In  its 
establishment  and  accomplishments  the  words  of  the  Redeemer,  and 
the  declarations  of  the  prophets  who  lived  before  and  after  him  are 
fulfilled.  In  justification  of  this  declaration  permit  me  to  make  the 
following  statement,  briefly,  because  a  subject  of  such  tremendous  im- 
portance can  only  be  touched  upon  in  one  brief  discourse. 

BRIEF    STORY    OF    THE    FOUNDING    OF    THE     CHURCH 

One  hundred  seven  years  ago,  Joseph  Smith,  at  the  time 
in  his  fifteenth  year,  lived  with  his  parents  at  Manchester,  in  the  state 
of  New  York.  While  a  great  religious  revival  was  being  held  in  the 
neighborhood  he  found  himself  in  doubt  as  to  which  of  the  contending 
sects  he  should  join,  for  there  was  great  rivalry  among  them  in  their 
efforts  to  secure  converts. 

Profoundly  religious  he  had  never  conceived  the  idea  that  all  were 
wrong,  neither  could  he  believe  that  all  were  right,  because  of  the  great 
difference  in  doctrine  and  organization  which  existed.  Familiar  with 
the  scriptures  he  knew  that  the  Lord  had  promised  wisdom  to  all 
who  lacked  it,  if  they  would  go  to  him  in  faith,  and  believing  that 
the  question  which  he  was  not  able  to  decide  would  be  answered  by  the 
Lord,  he  retired  to  the  woods  and  engaged  in  earnest  prayer. 

While  thus  occupied  a  vision  was  unfolded  in  which  he  saw  two 
glorious  personages,  whose  brightness  and  glory,  he  says,  defied  all 
description.  One  of  these  personages,  pointing  to  the  other,  said: 
"This  is  my  beloved  Son,  hear  him." 

The  Person  referred  to  told  Joseph  that  he  should  join  none  of 
the  existing  churches,  that  all  were  wrong,  that  they  drew  near  him 
with  their  lips,  but  their  hearts  were  removed  far  from  him,  and  they 
taught  for  doctrine  the  commandments  of  men. 

Nothing  of  importance  occurred  in  the  life  of  Joseph  Smith,  except 
that  he  was  persecuted  and  ridiculed  because  he  maintained  that  he  had 
seen  this  vision,  until  three  years  later,  when,  while  engaged  in  prayer 
in  his  bed  room,  Joseph  says  that  a  light  began  to  appear,  which 
increased  in  brilliancy  until  the  room  was  brighter  than  at  noon-day, 
when  a  personage  appeared  at  his  bedside,  clothed  in  a  robe  of  ex- 
quisite whiteness. 

This   personage   said   that   he   was   a  messenger   sent   from   the 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  IV.  IVINS  21 

presence  of  God,  and  that  his  name  was  Moroni,  that  the  Lord  had  a 
great  work  for  Joseph  to  do,  and  that  his  name  should  be  known  for 
both  good  and  evil  among  all  nations,  that  among  some  it  would  be 
held  in  honor,  and  among  others  in  reproach.  He  also  told  him  that  there 
was  a  book  deposited,  written  upon  gold  plates,  containing  the  history 
of  the  ancient  inhabitants  of  this  continent,  and  that  it  also  contained 
the  fulness  of  the  everlasting  gospel,  as  it  was  delivered  by  the  Savior 
to  them,  and  that  there  was  also  deposited  the  Urim  and  Thummim, 
by  means  of  which  the  characters  engraven  on  the  plates  could  be  trans- 
lated. This  was  the  Book  of  Mormon,  which  was  later  delivered  to 
Joseph  Smith,  translated  by  him  and  first  published  to  the  world  in  1830. 

While  engaged  in  the  work  of  translation,  assisted  by  Oliver 
Cowdery,  Joseph  observed  the  importance  which  attached  to  the  ordin- 
ance of  baptism,  and  desiring  greater  light  he  and  Oliver  went  to  a 
secluded  spot,  on  the  bank  of  the  Susquehanna  River,  and  engaged  in 
prayer.  While  thus  occupied  they  bear  witness  that  a  messenger  from 
heaven  descended  in  a  cloud  of  light,  and  laying  his  hands  upon  their 
heads  said :  "Upon  you  my  fellow  servants,  in  the  name  of  Messiah 
I  confer  the  Priesthood  of  Aaron,  which  holds  the  keys  of  the  minister- 
ing of  angels,  and  of  the  gospel  of  repentance,  and  of  baptism  by  im- 
mersion for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  this  shall  never  be  taken  again 
from  the  earth,  until  the  sons  of  Levi  do  offer  again  an  offering  unto 
the  Lord  in  righteousness." 

This  messenger  told  them  that  he  was  John  the  Baptist,  that  he 
acted  under  instruction  from  Peter,  James  and  John.  That  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood,  which  he  had  conferred  had  not  the  power  to  lay  on  hands 
for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  but  that  the  keys  of  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  would  be  later  conferred  upon  them.  This  latter  priesthood 
was  conferred  upon  Joseph  and  Oliver  at  a  later  date  under  the  hands 
of  Peter,  James  and  John,  who  ordained  them  to  the  Apostleship,  and 
committed  to  them  the  keys  of  the  kingdom,  and  of  the  Gospel  Dis- 
pensation of  the  Fulness  of  Times. 

It  is  upon  this  authority  that  the  Church  assumes  to  speak  and  act 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord. 

THE    CHURCH    NOT  A   FACTION,    BUT   THE   RESTORED    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST 

The  Church  is  not  a  protestant  faction  which  has  broken  away 
from  the  mother  church,  or  from  any  other  religious  body.  It  is  the 
Church  of  Christ,  our  Lord,  restored  to  earth  as  he  and  the  prophets  de- 
clared it  should  be,  restored  for  the  purpose  of  gathering  the  out- 
casts of  Israel,  that  the  way  may  be  prepared  for  the  coming  of  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  the  consummation  of  the  purposes  of 
the  Lord,  in  so  far  as  they  pertain  to  the  present  generation  of  mankind, 
who  occupy  the  small  portion  of  the  universe,  which  we  call  the  world. 

WE  DO  NOT  BELIEVE  IT,  SAY  OBJECTORS 

Yes,  says  the  objector,  if  this  story  were  true  your  authority  would 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

be  sufficient,  but  we  do  not  believe  it.  We  do  not  believe  that  Joseph 
Smith,  in  vision,  saw  and  communed  with  the  Father  and  Son.  We 
do  not  believe  that  heavenly  messengers  visited  him,  nor  that  the  keys  of 
the  Priesthood  were  conferred  upon  him  by  John  the  Baptist,  nor  by 
Peter,  James  and  John.  These  men  died  more  than  a  thousand  years 
ago,  and  the  dead  do  not  return  to  visit  the  living.  Visions  and 
the  visitation  of  angels  have  long  since  been  done  away  with,  there 
are  no  such  things  in  the  age  in  which  we  live,  Joseph  Smith  was 
either  a  visionary  dreamer,  and  these  imaginings  were  the  result  of  a 
disordered  mind,  or  else  he  was  a  wilful  impostor. 

Neither  did  the  people  believe  the  words  of  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world.  They  declared  him  to  be  an  impostor,  a  disturber  of  the  peace, 
that  he  was  guilty  of  sedition,  and  was  a  blasphemer,  because  he  de- 
clared himself  to  be  the  Son  of  God,  and  it  was  upon  these  and  other 
similar  charges  that  he  was  condemned  to  death  upon  the  cross.  The 
people  did  riot  believe  that  Moses  and  Elias  appeared  to  Peter,  James 
and  John,  at  the  time  of  the  transfiguration  of  the  Redeemer,  they  had 
long  been  dead,  and  could  not  return. 

Nor  did  they  believe  Paul  when  he  declared  to  King  Agrippa  and 
Festus,  that  as  he  journeyed  toward  Damascus,  at  noon  day  a  light 
brighter  than  the  sun  descended  from  heaven  which  caused  him,  and 
those  who  were  with  him  to  fall  to  the  earth.  That  a  voice  called  to  him 
declaring  that  it  was  Jesus  of  Nazareth  who  spoke,  telling  him  to 
arise,  and  stand  upon  his  feet,  and  said:  "I  have  appeared  unto  thee 
for  this  purpose,  to  make  thee  a  minister  and  a  witness"  to  the  people, 
especially  to  the  Gentiles,  "to  open  their  eyes,  and  to  turn  them  from 
darkness  to  light,  and  from  the  power  of  satan  unto  God."  The 
Redeemer  had  been  crucified,  declared  dead,  and  Festus,  who  could  not 
understand  how  he  could  appear  to  anyone,  cried  out:  "Paul,  thou 
art  beside  thyself ;  much  learning  doth  make  thee  mad."  But  Paul 
answered,  "I  am  not  mad,  most  noble  Festus ;  but  speak  forth  the 
words  of  truth  and  soberness." 

WE  BEAR  WITNESS  OF  THE  RESTORATION 

So  do  we  in  soberness  and  truth  bear  witness  to  the  people  of  the 
world  today,  to  king  and  subject,  to  patrician  and  plebeian,  to  rich  and 
poor,  to  Christian  and  heathen  ;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  divinely  called  to 
be  the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  in  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel  of  Christ ;  that  the  keys  of  the  Priesthood  were  conferred  upon 
him  as  has  been  stated,  and  have  come  down  through  his  successors 
to  the  present.  Another  thing  to  which  we  bear  witness  is  that  all 
men  may  know  the  truth  of  the  testimony  which  we  bear  by  asking 
the  Lord  for  it  in  faith.  It  is  not  by  the  words  of  men  that  you  have  been 
converted,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  but  by  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
which  has  borne  witness  of  the  truth  of  these  things,  and  this  great 
congregation  of  people  would  arise  and  testify  to  the  truth  of  what  I  say 
if  requested  to  do  so. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS  23 

WHAT    WE    BELIEVE 

We  believe  in  the  immaculate  conception  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  and 
that  the  Child  born  at  Bethlehem  of  Judea  was  in  very  deed  the  Son  of 
God,  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father  in  the  flesh.  That  he  is  our 
advocate  with  the  Father,  the  medium  through  which  we  reach  the 
throne  of  grace. 

The  foundation  of  the  Church  is  laid  in  God  the  Eternal  Father, 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  constitute  the  God- 
head. No  person  can  become  a  member  of  the  Church  until  he  has 
taken  upon  him  the  name  of  Christ,  and  entered  into  the  covenant  that 
he  is  willing  to  serve  him,  and  keep  the  commandments  which  he 
has  given,  to  the  best  of  his  ability.  He  must  accept  the  ordinance 
of  baptism,  which  is  administered  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  Son  and 
Holy  Ghost,  in  other  words  he  must  accept  Christ  as  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world,  without  reservation. 

The  members  of  the  Church  meet  together  once  each  week  and 
partake  of  the  sacrament  in  remembrance  of  the  body  and  blood  of 
our  Lord.  Every  ordinance  of  the  Church,  every  act  performed,  is 
administered  in  the  name  of  Christ. 

BUT    WHAT    ABOUT   THE    BOOK    OF    MORMON,    SAY   OBJECTORS 

But,  says  the  objector,  you  accept  the  Book  of  Mormon  as  a 
revelation  from  God,  thus  bringing  a  new  iBible  into  use  when  there 
can  be  but  one  Bible,  and  this  we  cannot  accept.  Even  if  such  a  record 
were  to  be  brought  forth,  would  the  Lord  undertake  to  accomplish  it 
through  the  medium  of  an  unlearned  young  man,  when  we  have  many 
profound  scholars  among  us? 

Our  reply  to  that  objection  is,  he  did  choose  Joseph  Smith  to 

accomplish  it,  and  that  should  be  sufficient  answer.     It  is  the  same 

question  asked  regarding  the  Redeemer:  "Is  not  this  the  carpenter's  Son? 

■  is  not  his  mother  called  Mary?"  and  are  not  his  brothers  and  sisters  all 

with  us,  whence  hath  this  man  all  of  these  things? 

Why  do  Christian  people  reject  the  Book  of  Mormon?  It  is 
the  strongest  corroborative  evidence  of  the  truth  of  the  Bible,  and  the 
divine  mission  of  the  Redeemer  that  exists  in  the  world,  and  should  be 
welcomed  by  all  Christian  people.  It  is  of  special  value  to  America,  and 
particularly  to  the  people  of  the  United  States.  It  is  the  Holy  Scripture 
of  the  American  continent,  and  it  outlines  the  establishment  and  destiny 
of  our  nation,  asserting  that  our  government  was  established  by  inspira- 
tion from  the  God  of  the  land,  whom  it  declares  is  Jesus  Christ,  and 
warns  us  that  if  we  turn  from  him,  and  cease  longer  to  recognize  and 
serve  him,  his  protection  will  be  withdrawn,  and  the  great  promises 
which  he  made  in  regard  to  our  destiny  will  be  of  no  effect. 

ALL  THE  "MORMONS"  ASK  IS   PERMISSION  TO   BELIEVE  AS   THEY   CHOOSE 

The  Latter-day  Saints  recognize  and  appreciate  the  great  work  ac- 
complished by  the  Christian  churches  of  the  world  since  the  Reforma- 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

tion,  in  breaking  down  kingcraft,  and  priestcraft,  thus  preparing  the 
way  for  the  establishment  of  free  government,  freedom  of  worship,  and 
the  coming  of  our  Lord  Jesus. 

When  brought  before  the  Jewish  high  priests,  Peter  speaking  for 
the  Twelve  declared  that  God  had  sent  his  Son  to  bring  salvation  to 
Israel.     Hearing  this  truth  they  took  council  to  slay  them. 

So  it  is  with  us  today.  The  world  says  if  you  will  renounce  this 
fable  regarding  visions  and  heavenly  visitations  to  Joseph  Smith,  we 
will  accept  you  as  Christian  people.  Like  Peter  and  Paul  we  answer : 
This  we  can  never  do,  because  it  is  the  truth,  and  the  experiences  of  the 
past  teach  us  that  it  is  dangerous  to  ignore  the  truth. 

All  that  we  ask  is  to  be  permitted  to  believe  as  we  choose,  and 
we  grant  all  men  this  privilege.  We  ask  the  people  of  the  world  to 
rely  upon  the  words  of  Gamaliel,  which  have  been  quoted,  for  the;v 
are  as  true  today  as  they  were  when  uttered.  If  this  work  is  of  men  it 
will  come  to  naught,  but  if  it  is  of  God  you  cannot  overthrow  it. 
Like  the  primitive  church,  being  defamed  we  entreat,  being  ridiculed 
we  revile  not;  being  persecuted  we  patiently  submit,  knowing  that  error 
must  eventually  yield  to  truth,  and  that  time  is  the  friend  of  innocence. 
We  submit  our  cause  to  the  Lord,  our  God,  to  whom  be  glory  and  praise 
and  honor,  through  Jesus  Christ,  his  Son.     Amen. 

The  choir  sang  an  anthem,  "O  blessed  be  the  Lord,"  with  music 
by  B.  Cecil  Gates,  and  the  solo  by  Delores  Seal. 

Closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph  B.  Keeler,  of  Provo. 
The  conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 

AFTERNOON  SESSION 

At  2  o'clock  the  congregation  was  asked  by  President  Heber  J. 
Grant,  who  presided,  to  sing  with  the  choir  the  hymn,  "How  firm  a 
foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the  Lord."  The  hymn  was  sung  with  spirit 
and  earnestness. 

Elder  Winslow  Farr  Smith,  president  of  the  Ensign  stake  of  Zion, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn,  "An  angel  from  on  high,"  the  duets 
being  sung  by  Mrs.  Alfred  W.  Davis  and  Hyrum  Christensen,  with 
sympathetic  interpretation. 

PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

I  read  from  the  twenty-fourth  chapter  of  Luke,  beginning  at  the 
first  verse: 

Christ's  resurrection 

"Now  upon  the  first  day  of  the  week,  very  early  in  the  morning,  they  came 
unto  the  sepulchre,  bringing  the  spices  which  they  had  prepared,  and  certain 
others  with  them. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY  25 

"And  they  found  the  stone  rolled  away  from  the  sepulchre. 

"And  they  entered  in,  and  found  not  the  body  of  the  Lord  Jesus. 

"And  it  came  to  pass,  as  they  were  much  perplexed  thereabout,  behold,  two 
men  stood  by  them  in  shining  garments : 

"And  as  they  were  afraid,  and  bowed  down  their  faces  to  the  earth,  they  said 
unto  them,  Why  seek  ye  the  living  among  the  dead? 

"He  is  not  here,  but  is  risen:  remember  how  he  spake  unto  you  when  he 
was  yet  in  Galilee, 

"Saying,  the  Son  of  man  must  be  delivered  into  the  hands  of  sinful  men, 
and  be  crucified,  and  the  third  day  rise  again. 

And  they  remembered  his  words." 

DOUBLE   ASSURANCE  OF  THE   RISEN   LORD 

Throughout  the  Christian  world  today  this  event  is  celebrated,  the 
theme  discussed,  the  thought  memorized,  and  appropriate  words  are 
spoken  upon  this  and  kindred  scripture  concerning  the  resurrection 
of  our  Lord.  Our  flowers  here,  these  Easter  lilies,  symbolize  that 
thought,  and  we,  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  believe  every  word  of  the  scripture  which  I  have  read.  We 
accept  it  literally.  We  believe  that  the  same  body  which  the  Lord  Jesus 
had  in  his  mortal  life  was  resurrected  and  became  a  glorified  body  of 
flesh  and  bone.  We  have  evidence  of  this  in  addition  to  that  contained 
in  the  New  Testament;  for  as  Latter-day  Saints  we  believe  that  this 
same  Jesus,  who  was  crucified  and  who  rose  from  the  dead,  did  in 
these  latter  days  appear  and  reveal  himself  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  and  taught  him  how  to  lay  the  foundation  of  this  great  latter- 
day  work. 

So  we  have  a  double  assurance,  not  only  the  assurance  of  the 
scriptures  which  Christians  generally  accept,  but  the  further  assurance 
that  the  same  Jesus  has  come  to  earth  in  these  latter  times  and  has 
established  the  same  Church,  the  same  doctrines,  the  same  principles 
of  salvation,  with  the  same  power  and  authority  which  he  instituted  in 
the  meridian  of  time,  before  his  crucifixion  and  after. 

PRINCIPLES  AND  DOCTRINES  THE  SAME  AS  CHRIST  TAUGHT 

He  has  given  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
in  these  days  the  same  authority  and  principles  and  has  empowered  it 
to  perform  the  same  work  which  he  instructed  his  apostles  and  disciples 
to  perform  in  former  times,  namely,  to  go  into  all  the  world  and 
preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature.  It  is  the  same  doctrine,  without 
any  change.  The  Savior  commanded  his  disciples  to  go  forth  and 
depend  not  upon  themselves,  but  upon  the  Lord,  and  he  promised  that 
he  would  feed  and  clothe  them  and  take  care  of  them.  In  other  words, 
they  were  not  to  ask :  "Is  there  a  salary  connected  with  it  ?  How 
much  are  we  going  to  get?"  In  the  olden  time,  as  you  read  in  the 
scriptures,  he  said  nothing  of  salary,  but  on  the  contrary,  his  instruc- 
tions were  that  they  should  go  without  purse  or  scrip,  and  depend  upon 
the  Lord. 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

THE   SAME   DOCTRINE 

The  same  doctrine  is  preached  today  by  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ;  and  as  we  heard  from  President  Grant  this  morning,  over 
2,500  of  our  missionaries  are  out  in  the  world  today,  doing  that  very 
work  and  doing  it  in  the  very  same  way.  They  maintain  themselves, 
they  depend  upon  their  own  efforts.  The  Church  does  not  hire  them. 
There  is  no  hiring  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
in  that  sense.  It  is  true  that  when  a  man  is  asked  to  devote  the  whole 
of  his  time  to  Church  work,  he  must  be  supplied  with  sufficient  to  live 
on.  The  people  among  whom  the  elders  labor  in  the  missions  of  the 
world  usually  take  care  of  them  where  they  can.  If  they  cannot,  and 
converts  or  friends  cannot  assist  them,  then  these  men  are  expected 
to  furnish  the  means  themselves  and  make  that  much  of  a  sacrifice 
for  preaching  and  teaching  and  delivering  this  wonderful  message  to 
the  world. 

THE   WORK   IS  DONE   WITHOUT  PAY 

Here  at  home  our  bishops  are  called  to  act  as  fathers  to  the  peo- 
ple in  their  wards.  Are  they  paid  any  salaries  ?  No.  It  is  true  that 
they  are  allowed  a  little,  the  general  average  of  which  amounts  to  50 
cents  a  day,  for  taking  care  of  the  tithes  and  for  being  responsible  for 
the  money,  but  not  for  presiding  over  the  ward,  and  not  for  administer- 
ing in  the  authority  of  the  priesthood.  It  is  given  for  the  special  work 
he  performs  as  bishop — that  of  taking  in  the  tithes,  looking  after  the 
hay,  the  butter,  the  eggs,  or  whatever  is  turned  in  on  tithing.  For 
this  particular  work  a  meagre  allowance  is  made  which  amounts  to 
about  50  cents  a  day  per  bishop;  but  no  salary  is  paid  to  our  bishops. 

Then  there  are  others,  such  as  the  men  on  this  stand,  and  mission 
presidents  also,  who  are  called  to  devote  their  entire  time  to  the  Church. 
They  have  no  time  to  look  after  temporal  affairs  of  their  own ;  they 
must  work  and  go  where  they  are  sent.  They  are  liable  to  be  called 
to  go  to  this  mission  or  the  other  mission,  even  to  the  ends  of  the 
earth,  any  day,  any  hour,  and  they  are  expected  to  comply,  and  do 
comply.  So  they  have  no  time  to  provide  means  for  their  families,  or 
to  speculate  in  this  or  the  other.  It  is  necessary,  therefore,  for  the 
Church  to  provide  for  them.  But  even  they  do  not  receive  "salaries," 
because  a  salary  is  what  a  man  receives  when  he  hires  himself  out. 
Over  there  in  the  office  of  the  Short  Line  Railroad  company,  or  in  any 
of  the  big  offices  or  stores,  men  are  hired  for  certain  amounts,  and 
if  they  do  well,  the  salary  is  increased.  A  man  may  go  from  one  job 
to  another,  and  do  the  best  he  can  for  his  family  and  for  himself,  and 
that  is  all  right;  he  is  entitled  to  do  it.  That  is  working  for  hire, 
or  for  a  salary.  But  could  you  get  one  of  the  mission  presidents  to  leave 
the  Church  work  and  hire  himself  out  for  money?  No.  Could  you 
hire  any  of  these  seventies,  the  presiding  bishopric,  the  apostles,  the 
presidency  of  the  Church?     Not  one,  not  one.     Of  necessity,  when  a 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIB  LEY  27 

man  has  not  the  means  to  support  himself,  the  Church  must  support  him, 
so  that  he  can  continue  his  work. 

.Such  men  as  I  have  mentioned,  therefore,  who  are  devoting  their 
entire  time  to  the  Church,  receive  an  allowance,  though  a  very  meagre 
one  in  comparison  to  what  is  usually  allowed  men  of  that  kind  in  other 
walks  of  life.  There  are  men  on  this  stand,  and  throughout  the  Church, 
who,  by  devoting  their  entire  time  to  their  own  affairs,  could  double 
or  treble  or  quadruple  the  small  allowance  that  is  given  them  by  the 
Church  for  their  support. 

So  I  can  safely  say  that  in  this  Church,  as  in  the  primitive  church, 
there  is  no  hireling  service.  The  same  spirit  of  sacrifice  that  the  Lord 
then  required  obtains  now  in  his  Church.  Our  parents  sacrificed  for 
this  work  in  coming  to  this  land  and  redeeming  it  from  the  desert  it 
was.  Our  missionaries  go  out  now  and  sacrifice.  It  is  essentially  a 
work  of  sacrifice.  They  give  the  best  years  of  their  lives  for  the 
work  of  the  Lord  without  any  thought  of  compensation.  There  is  a 
continual  stream  of  missionaries  coming  and  going.  What  for?  To 
deliver  this  message  to  the  world,  namely :  that  the  Lord  God  of  heaven 
■ — this  same  Jesus  Christ  of  whom  I  have  read  who  was  crucified  and  put 
to  death,  and  who  obtained  through  the  keys  of  the  resurrection  power 
over  death  and  the  grave ;  for  he  said :  "I  am  the  resurrection  and  the 
life" — has  established  the  same  kind  of  a  Church  in  this  day,  and  has 
restored  the  same  gospel  as  was  preached  in  his  day ;  and  he  expects  us 
to  deliver  that  most  important  message. 

THE    MOST    IMPORTANT    THING    FOR    THE    WORLD    TO    KNOW 

Now  let  me  tell  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  most  important 
thing  for  the  world  to  know  today  is  that  God  lives,  and  that  Jesus 
is  indeed  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  and  that  he  has  restored 
his  work  to  the  earth  through  the  instrumentality  of  Joseph  Smith  the 
Prophet.  The  same  doctrine  of  faith  is  here  today  that  was  in  the 
primitive  church.  The  same  doctrine  of  repentance  is  here.  The  same 
doctrine  of  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins  is  here.  The 
same  doctrine  of  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  reception  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  is  here.  The  same  power  of  the  Holy  Priesthood  is  here.  The 
power  of  God  unto  salvation  is  here  today  in  this  Church  as  strong, 
as  powerful,  and  as  potent  as  it  was  in  the  days  of  Jesus  Christ,  when  he 
dwelt  here  in  the  flesh.  The  same  principles  are  advanced — love, 
patience,  integrity,  sacrifice,  everything  that  makes  for  righteousness 
and  the  well-being  of  mankind.  Every  principle,  every  ideal,  every 
thought  that  makes  for  the  betterment  and  the  salvation  of  mankind  is 
here  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  today,  as  it  was 
nineteen  hundred  years  ago  in  the  primitive  church.  And  the  beauty 
of  it  all  is  that  you  know  it !    You  are  not  deceived. 

THE    CHURCH    BUILT    UPON    THE    ROCK    OF    REVELATION 

We  would  be  foolish  to  try  to  deceive  ourselves.     We  know  by 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

the  same  power  that  Peter  knew;  and  what  was  that?  "Whom  do 
men  say  that  I  the  Son  of  man  am?"  the  Savior  asked.  And  they 
said:  "Some  say  thou  art  John  the  Baptist;  some  Elias;  and  others, 
Jeremias,  or  one  of  the  prophets."  The  Savior  said:  "But  whom  say 
ye  that  I  am?"  Peter  answered  and  said  unto  him:  "Thou  art  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  the  Living  God."  And  the  Savior  answered, 
"Blessed  art  thou,  Simon  Barjona:  [as  much  as  to  say,  it  is  a  fine 
thing  to  have  that  testimony,  that  knowledge]  for  flesh  and  blood  hath 
not  revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven  *  *  *  '* 
and  upon  this  rock  [this  rock  of  revelation]  I  will  build  my  Church; 
and  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  it." 

We  are  built  upon  the  same  rock  of  revelation.  We  have  the 
knowledge  of  God.  The  key  to  the  knowledge  of  God  is  in  this  Church. 
The  power  of  the  Priesthood  is  here,  the  same  power  as  formerly,  to 
lead  the  people,  and  the  people  know  it.  It  is  written  here  in  the 
Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  that  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  God's 
people  shall  come  to  know  who  are  the  servants  of  the  Lord,  and  who 
are  not,  and  they  shall  judge  all  things,  and  so  forth. 

This  individual  testimony,  this  positive  assurance  which  is  given 
to  every  Latter-day  Saint  through  revelation,  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  is  the  same  testimony  and  spirit  that  our  fathers  and 
mothers  received  when  they  joined  the  Church  in  the  old  countries. 
And  every  man  and  woman  in  all  the  world  may  receive  it  if  they 
only  will.  There  is  a  challenge  here  in  the  last  chapter  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  which  is  to  all  people,  that  any  man  who,  with  real  intent, 
not  half  believing,  but  believing  fully,  shall  say  in  his  heart:  "Oh, 
God,  show  me  thy  way,  thy  truth,  thy  light,  the  right  path,  and  I  will 
follow  it,  no  matter  what  its  name  is  or  how  discredited  it  may  be  by 
the  world,"  will  receive  in  his  heart  a  testimony,  if  he  so  ask  of  God. 

FOR  A  TESTIMONY,  GO  TO  THE  LORD 

So  all  we  say  to  our  friends,  our  neighbors,  our  brethren  and  sisters 
everywhere,  is :  Take  it  to  the  Lord.  You  need  not  take  our  word ;  go 
to  the  Lord  in  prayer,  but  in  the  true  spirit  of  faith,  for  no  other  spirit 
will  avail,  and  you  have  my  word  for  it,  and  the  word  of  ten  thousand 
Latter-day  Saints  here  assembled,  that  you  will  receive  the  same  testi- 
mony, for  the  Lord  does  not  fail. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in  being  permitted  to  labor  in 
this  great  cause.  I  have  been  at  it  for  more  than  sixty  years,  and  more 
and  more  I  see  the  splendor  of  it,  the  glory  of  it,  the  power  of  it,  the 
strength,  the  salvation  that  is  in  it.  I  know  it  is  true,  it  is  of  God.  You 
cannot  fail,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  you  but  put  your  trust  in  him. 
And  if  we  have  erred  or  done  ought  amiss,  that  blessed  principle 
of  repentance  which  he  has  implanted  in  his  Church  is  here  to  save  us 
if  we  will  but  correct  our  error,  forsake  evil,  and  cleave  to  that  which 
is  good. 

Where  can  we  find  anything  -like  it  ?  Where  else  in  all  the  world  is 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIB  LEY  29 

there  such  an  organization.  There  is  within  it  that  power,  that  im- 
pelling force  that  brings  you  and  me  and  Latter-day  Saints  everywhere, 
in  joy,  in  gladness,  in  pleasure,  to  serve  the  Lord.  It  brings  us  to 
respect  the  Priesthood — the  apostles,  the  bishops  of  the  wards,  the 
presidencies  of  stakes,  each  in  his  order  and  in  his  place,  because  the 
Lord  has  called  them,  by  that  same  power  and  spirit  that  I  have  spoken 
of,  namely,  by  the  gower  of  revelation.  How  are  we  to  acquire  that? 
If  you  will  read  the  eighth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
the  Lord  tells  you  this,  if  you  will  pray  about  it : 

"Behold,  I  will  tell  you  in  your  mind  and  in  your  heart,  by  the  Holy  Ghost, 
which  shall  come  upon  ycu  and  which  shall  dwell  in  your  heart. 

"Now,  behold,  this  is  the  spirit  of  revelation ;  behold,  this  is  the  spirit  by 
which  Moses  brought  the  children  of  Israel  through  the  Red  Sea  on  dry  ground." 

This  is  the  spirit  that  he  gave  to  all  his  ancient  prophets  and 
apostles. 

I  testify  that  this  is  the  same  spirit  and  influence'  that  he  gave 
to  President  Young  in  his  ministry,  and  to  every  succeeding  president. 
It  is  the  spirit  that  he  gives  to  President  Grant  today  in  his  ministry, 
and  he  receives  it  in  the  same  way,  by  prayer,  by  faith,  by  righteous 
living,  by  being  worthy  to  receive  it.  That  counts  for  a  lot,  I  want  to  tell 
you.    "Worthy  art  thou,  O  Lord,"  it  was  said  of  him,  "to  sit  on  high." 

THE    SPIRIT    OF    SACRIFICE    IS    THE   SPIRIT    OF   THIS    WORK 

The  president  of  the  Church  today  gives  us,  by  counsel,  by  advice, 
by  the  inspiration  of  the  spirit,  that  admonition  which  is  for  our  salva- 
tion. After  the  president  talked  this  forenoon  and  after  President  Ivins' 
splendid  discourse,  I  was  going  over  all  these  items  in  my  mind  and 
I  thought :  "What  sane  man — I  don't  care  what  his  religion  is,  or  if  he 
has  no  religion — what  sane  man  anywhere  could  object  to  the  teachings 
of  these  brethren?"  Now  put  that  question  to  yourselves,  my  brethren 
and  sisters  and  friends.  Were  they  not  good,  were  they  not  wholesome, 
were  they  not  for  the  betterment  of  mankind  for  the  best  that  is  in  men, 
for  good  government,  for  good  order,  for  good  citizenship?  The  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  is  intended  to  make  me  a  better  husband,  a  better  father, 
a  better  citizen,  if  I  will  only  obey  its  laws. 

Let  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters  be  willing  to  sacrifice  for  the  Lord, 
for  his  work.  There  is  a  great  work  yet  to  perform  in  all  the  world. 
As  we  have  heard  from  the  president,  missionaries  are  called  for  from 
every  quarter.  We  have  had  volunteers,  and  many  who  have  been 
called,  who  have  gone  and  have  done  a  splendid  work.  I  recall  now 
one  of  them,  and  I  am  going  to  mention  his  name:  Brother  A.  A. 
Hinckley.  He  wrote  to  the  presidency  sometime  ago  and  said :  "I 
see  that  there  has  been  a  call  for  missionaries  to  go  out  for  six  months." 
And  he  further  said :  "The  Lord  has  blessed  me  very  much,  I  ought 
to  be  very  grateful,  and  I  am  very  grateful ;"  and  he  went  on  to  mention 
the  blessings,  for  the  spirit  of  gratitude  was  in  his  heart.    "Now  I  am 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

willing  to  go,  I  am  willing  to  stay,  I  am  willing  to  do  whatever  you  want 
me  to  do."  With  tears  in  my  eyes,  I  listened  as  the  president  read  that 
letter,  and  I  thought,  "God  bless  such  a  man." 

THE  SPIRIT  OF   SACRIFICE 

There  is  the  spirit  of  this  work,  there  is  the  spirit  that  makes  this 
thing  go,  that  holds  me  and  holds  you — the  real  spirit  of  sacrifice. 
Willing  to  go  on  missions  ?  Yes,  anxious  to  go,  to  let  everybody  know 
that  God  has  spoken,  that  we  have  the  knowledge  of  God,  the  testi- 
mony of  it,  the  same  Christ  our  Lord  that  was  crucified,  whose  resur- 
rection the  people  in  all  the  world  are  celebrating  today.  He  has  put 
into  our  hearts  the  knowledge  that  the  greatest  thing  that  we  have  to 
do  and  that  his  Church  will  forever  have  to  do,  so  far  as  I  know,  is  to 
proclaim  this  gospel,  to  spread  this  truth,  to  bring  people  into  the  same 
way  of  thinking,  the  same  spirit  and  power  that  is  in  the  priesthood 
and  in  the  Church,  the  same  happiness,  the  same  joy,  the  same  blessing, 
the  same  salvation.  That  is  the  greatest  work  that  is  before  you  and 
me,  and  we  ought  to  be  anxiously  engaged  in  such  a  work,  and  not 
wait  until  we  are  commanded  in  all  things;  for  he  that  waits  until  he 
is  commanded,  and  does  nothing  until  he  is  commanded,  the  same 
is  a  slothful  servant  and  unworthy. 

MAY    THE    LORD    GLORIFY    HIS    WORK 

I  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Lord  will  magnify  and 
glorify  his  work.  We  can't  do  it;  but  he  will  do  it  through  us, — 
through  you,  through  me,  and  men  and  women  like  you  and  me ;  for  it 
is  his  work.  It  is  by  his  power,  as  President  Grant  read  to  you,  in 
that  greeting  this  morning.  It  is  the  Lord  we  say  who  has  done  it.  As 
stated  in  the  Holy  Bible  (Psalm  100):  "It  is  he  that  hath 
made  us,  and  not  we  ourselves,"  so  it  is  he  that  hath  made  this  work 
and  brought  it  to  pass,  and  put  the  power  and  the  spirit  in  it,  which 
no  man  can  do;  but  with  that  spirit  in  us  we  can  conquer  the  world 
for  righteousness,  for  peace  on  earth,  good  will  toward  all  men,  which 
I  humbly  pray  he  will  hasten,  in  his  time,  through  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

Following  the  sermon  by  President  Nibley,  the  choir  and  con- 
gregation sang,  "The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning." 

ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 

APROPOS  OF  EASTER  DAY:      "WE  STAND   FOR  AN   INDIVIDUAL  TESTIMONY1 
OF  THE  DIVINITY  OF  JESUS  CHRIST" 

The  adoption  by  the  Mutual  Improvement  Associations  of  this 
their  latest  slogan  was  most  opportune.  For  it  comes  at  a  time 
when  the  question  of  Christ's  divinity  is  being  widely  agitated. 
Someone  has   wittily   said  that   the   automobile   is   fast  resolving  the 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY  31 

human  race  into  two  great  classes — the  quick  and  the  dead. 
Even  so,  though  in  quite  another  way,  the  controversy  over  the 
divinity  or  non-divinity  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth  is  dividing  the  Christian 
world  into  two  opposing  militant  camps — the  Fundamentalists  and  the 
Modernists,  so-called. 

FUNDAMENTALISTS  VS  MODERNISTS 

The  Fundamentalists,  with  whom  I  class  myself  and  all  Latter- 
day  Saints,  in  a  general  way,  are  those  who  adhere  to  the  old 
and  established  belief  that  Jesus  Christ  was  the  very  Son  of  God, 
born  of  a  virgin  mother;  that  he  was  the  author  of  the  resurrec- 
tion, the  giver  of  eternal  life,  and  withal  a  worker  of  miracles.  We 
verily  believe  that  he  walked  upon  water,  turned  water  into  wine, 
healed  the  sick,  cast  out  devils,  gave  sight  to  the  blind,  caused  the 
lame  to  walk,  and  did  many  other  mighty  and  marvelous  works, 
all  by  virtue  of  the  divine  power  within  him. 

The  Modernists,  who  regard  themselves  as  advanced  thinkers, 
as  the  intellectually  "quick,"  while  their  opponents  are  the  spirit- 
ually "dead,"  look  upon  Jesus  as  a  good  and  great  man,  the  wisest 
and  noblest  teacher  that  the  world  has  ever  known.  But  they 
scout  the  idea  of  his  being  a  miracle-worker,  or  the  author  and 
giver  of  eternal  life.  They  do  not  positively  deny  that  he  could 
have  worked  a  miracle,  had  he  been  so  minded;  they  are  simply 
not  convinced  that  he  could  or  did.  This  I  believe  is  a  fair 
statement  of  their  position. 

Many  years  ago,  when  I  was  a  ward  bishop  in  this  city,  a 
Primary  Association  conference  was  held  one  Sunday  evening  in 
the  ward  chapel.  One  of  the  sisters,  gathering  the  little  tots  around 
her  on  the  stand,  told  them  the  story  of  Jesus  feeding  the  multitude 
in  the  miraculous  manner  set  forth  in  the  New  Testament.  Going 
home  that  night,  one  of  the  mothers,  anxious  to  impress  the  lesson 
upon  the  mind  of  her  little  son,  asked  him  certain  questions  con- 
cerning it.  "What  did  Sister  Blank  tell  us  this  evening?"  The 
boy  replied:  "She  told  us  how  the  Savior  fed  the  people.''  How 
many  people?"  "Five  thousand."  "And  what  did  he  feed  them 
with?"  "Five  loaves  of  bread  and  two  fishes."  "Well,  now,"  said 
the  mother,  "how  do  you  suppose  he  could  do  that?"  The  little 
fellow  mused  a  moment,  and  then  blurted  out:  "Well,  I  don't 
believe  those  in  the  middle  got  any." 

He  was  a  Modernist.  He  did  not  believe  in  miracles.  He  did 
not  realize  that  it  was  by  divine  power  that  this  marvelous  deed 
was  done.  His  child  mind  could  not  allow  for  the  difference — 
the  vast  difference  between  the  omnipotence  of  Almighty  God  and 
the  puny  strength  of  mortal  man.  And  that's  the  trouble  with 
many  grown  up  children  at  the  present  time. 

They  who  doubt  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ  can  hardly  be 
expected  to  believe  in  the  wonderful  works  wrought  by  him.     But 


32  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

they  who  accept  him  as  the  Son  of  God  can  accept  his  miracles  also, 
the  problem  resolving  itself  into  a  simple  question  of  cause  and 
effect. 

"natural  supernaturalism" 

Men  say  that  they  do  not  believe  in  miracles  because  they 
are  contrary  to  the  laws  of  nature.-  "What  are  the  laws  of  Na- 
ture?" asks  Carlyle,  and  answers  his  own  question  thus: 

"To  me  perhaps  the  rising  of  one  from  the  dead  were  no 
violation  of  these  laws,  but  a  confirmation,  if  some  far  deeper  law, 
now  first  penetrated  into,  and  by  spiritual  force,  even  as  the  rest 
have   all  been,  were  brought  to  bear  on  us  with  its  material   force. 

"  'But  is  it  not  the  deepest  law  of  Nature  that  she  be  constant?' 
cries  an  illuminated  class.  'Is  not  the  machine  of  the  universe  fixt 
to  move  by  unalterable  rules?'  Probable  enough,  good  friends  *  *  * 
And  now  of  you,  too,  I  make  the  old  inquiry :  What  those  same  un- 
alterable rules,  forming  the  complete  statute  book  of  Nature,  may 
possibly  be  ? 

"'They  stand  written  in  our  works  of  science,'  say  you;  'in 
the  accumulated  record  of  man's  experience.'  Was  man  with  his 
experience  present  at  the  creation,  then,  to  see  how  it  all  went 
on?  Have  any  deepest  scientific  individuals  yet  dived  down  to  the 
foundations  of  the  universe,  and  gauged  everything  there?  Did  the 
Maker  take  them  into  his  counsel,  that  they  read  his  ground-plan  of 
the  incomprehensible  All,  and  can  say,  This  stands  marked  therein, 
and  no  more  than  this?     Alas,  not  in  any  wise! 

"To  the  minnow,  every  cranny  and  pebble  and  quality  and  ac- 
cident of  its  little  native  creek  may  have  become  familiar;  but  does 
the  minnow  understand  the  ocean  tides  and  periodic  currents,  the 
trade  winds  and  monsoons  and  moon's  eclipses,  by  all  of  which  the 
condition  of  its  little  creek  is  regulated,  and  may,  from  time  to 
time  (unmiraculously  enough)  be  quite  upset  and  reversed?  Such 
a  minnow  is  man;  his  creek  this  planet  earth;  his  ocean  the  im- 
measurable All ;  his  monsoons  and  periodic  currents  the  mysterious 
force  of  Providence  through  aeons  of  aeons." — Sartor  Resartus. 

MIRACLES,    THE   FRUITS    OF    FAITH 

I  need  but  add  to  this  masterly  philosophic  defense,  that  it 
were  indeed  a  pitiful  begging  of  the  question  for  any  one  to  say : 
Because  I  cannot  do  a  certain  thing,  therefore  it  cannot  be  done; 
I  cannot  work  a  miracle,  consequently  no  miracle  was  ever  wrought. 
Miracles  are  the  fruits  of  faith.  Nobody  claims  that  unbelief  can 
perform  them. 

Time  will  not  permit  me  to  pursue  this  subject  further,  nor  is 
it  necessary  that  I  should  do  so.  Before  sitting  down,  however,  I 
would  like  to  touch  upon  another  topic,  suggested  by  Carlyle's 
pointed  question:     "Was  man  present  at  the  Creation?" 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY  33 

WHEN   MORNING   STARS   SANG  TOGETHER 

A  similar  question  was  once  put  to  a  righteous  man  named 
Job,  whom  God  answered  "out  of  the  whirlwind/'  saying:  "Where 
wast  thou  when  I  laid  the  foundations  of  the  earth?  declare  if 
thou  hast  understanding  *  *  *  When  the  morning  stars  sang 
together  and  all  the  sons  of  God  shouted  for  joy?"  (Job  38:1-7.) 

Job  does  not  seem  to  have  answered  the  question.  Perhaps 
he  did  not  have  sufficient  "understanding,"  and,  unlike  the  "il- 
luminated class"  mentioned,  would  not  assume  to  know  what  he 
did  not  know.  But  another  righteous  man  named  Abraham,  who 
lived  four  centuries  before  the  time  of  Job,  had  virtually  answered 
that  question;  and  his  answer  slept  for  two  thousand  years  in  the 
wrappings  of  a  mummy  in  the  catacombs  of  Egypt,  awaiting  the 
hour  when  Joseph  Smith  would  give  to  the  world  his  translation  of  the 
Book  of  Abraham.    Therein  the  Father  of  the  Faithful  says : 

ABRAHAM   AND  PRE-EXISTENCE 

"Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me,  Abraham,  the  intelligences 
that  were  organized  before  the  world  was;  and  among  all  these 
there  were  many  of  the  noble  and  great  ones; 

"And  God  saw  these  souls  that  they  were  good,  and  he  stood 
in  the  midst  of  them,  and  he  said:  These  I  will  make  my  rulers; 
for  he  stood  among  those  that  were  spirits,  and  he  saw  that  they 
were  good ;  and  he  said  unto  me :  Abraham,  thou  art  one  of  them ; 
thou  wast  chosen  before  thou  wast  born. 

"And  there  stood  one  among  them  that  was  like  unto  God, 
and  he  said  unto  those  who  were  with  him :  We  will  go  down, 
for  there  is  space  there,  and  we  will  take  of  these  materials,  and  we 
will  make  an  earth  whereon  these  may  dwell; 

"And  we  will  prove  them  herewith,  to  see  if  they  will  do  all 
things  whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God  shall  command  them ; 

"And  they  who  keep  their  first  estate  shall  be  added  upon; 
and  they  who  keep  not  their  first  estate  shall  not  have  glory  in  the 
same  kingdom  with  those  who  keep  their  first  estate;  and 
they  who  keep  their  second  estate  shall  have  glory  added  upon  their 
heads  forever  and  ever."  (Abraham  3  :22-26.) 

How  majestic!  How  sublime!  And  how  wonderfully  com- 
prehensive! Surely  the  Book  of  Abraham  bears  testimony  to  its 
own  divine  origin.  The  sublimity  of  its  doctrines  and  the  spirit  ac- 
companying them  are  proof  positive  that  they  came  right  down 
from  heaven. 

BISHOP    SPALDING   AND   THE    SPEAKER 

I  bear  in  mind  a  conversation  that  I  had  with  the  late  Bishop 
Franklin  S.  Spalding,  of  the  Episcopal  Church,  whose  untimely 
accidental  death  some  years  ago  we  all  deeply  deplored.  He  had 
attacked  the  Book  of  Abraham  in  a  published  commentary,  and  was 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

answered  by  a  number  of  our  brethren  through  the  press.  Soon 
afterwards  I  met  the  Bishop,  with  whom  I  was  quite  well  ac- 
quainted, and  he  said  to  me :  "Why  have  you  not  answered  me  ?" 
"I  have,"  was  my  reply;  "I  have  been  answering  you  all  over  the 
country,  but  it  hasn't  gotten  into  the  papers."  "Oh,  indeed,  and  what 
have  you  been  saying?"  he  inquired.    "I  have  been  saying  this: 

"  'Truth  is  truth,  where'er  'tis  found, 
On  Christian  or  on  heathen  ground.' 

"And  whether  it  be  taken  from  an  ancient  hill  in  North 
America,  as  was  the  Book  of  Mormon;  or  from  the  catacombs  of 
Egypt,  as  was  the  Book,  of  Abraham,  if  it's  true,  it's  true,  no 
matter  who  translated  it,  or  how  many  supposed  flaws  appear  in 
the  translation.  The  character  of  the  content  and  the  spirit  that 
goes  along  with  it,  determines  better,  than  all  else  its  truth,  its 
authenticity.  We  know  Shakespeare's  writings  by  the  very  sound 
of  them — they  have  the  Shakespearean  ring.  Literary  experts  can 
tell  the  difference  between  those  writings  and  all  others.  We 
recognize  Milton's  poetry  by  the  Miltonic  ring;  the  poetry  of  Byron 
and  Tennyson  by  the  Byronic  or  Tennysonian  ring.  Then,  if  God 
speaks,  why  should  it  not  have  a  Godlike  ring,  something  that  no 
man  can  counterfeit,  nor  any  but  a  spiritual  expert  fully  appreciate?" 

Bishop  Spalding  agreed  with  me.  Not  as  to  the  Book  of 
Abraham,  but  as  to  the  best  way  of  testing  any  book.  "I  am 
one  with  you,"  he  said,  "in  the  belief  that  the  highest  evidence  of  the 
truth  of  any  work  is  the  spirit  that  it  breathes  and  the  wisdom 
that  it  inculcates."  "Then,"  said  I,  "this  Book  of  Abraham  needs 
no  defense  from  me,  nor  from  anyone  else.  It  speaks  for  itself; 
it  defends  itself.  By  the  majesty  of  its  language,  by  the  sublimity  of 
its  teachings  and  by  the  Spirit  that  permeates  them,  it  proclaims 
itself  divine." 

A    GRAMMATICAL    ERROR 

Prior  to  that  time  I  had  a  conversation  with  another  would- 
be  censor  of  our  sacred  books.  He  accosted  me  on  the  street  with 
the  question:  "Bishop  Whitney,  do  you  believe  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon to  be  the  word  of  God?"  "I  certainly  do,"  said  I.  "Well,  can't 
God  speak  grammatically?"  "Of  course  he  can."  "Then  why  was 
this  grammatical  error  left  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  ?" — and  he 
quoted  it.  "Do  you  really  want  to  know?"  "Yes,"  he  said. 
"Well,  I  think  that  was  left  there  just  to  keep  you  out  of  the 
Church." 

He  seemed  surprised:  "Doesn't  God  want  me  in  his  Church?" 
"No,"  I  said;  "he  only  wants, honest  seekers  after  truth;  and  if  you 
think  more  of  a  grammatical  error  than  you  do  of  your  soul's 
salvation,  you  are  not  fit  for  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  and  the  Lord 
doesn't  want  you." 


ELDER  ORSON  E.  WHITNEY  35 

He  was  astonished.  It  was  something  he  hadn't  thought  of. 
He  felt  very  much  as  Goliath  did  when  the  stone  sank  into  his  fore- 
head— such  a  thing  had  never  entered  his  head  before. 

THE  CREATION  TWO-FOLD 

Back  now  to  the  Book  of  Abraham:  "And  then  the  Lord 
said,  Let  us  go  down.  And  they  went  down  at  the  beginning,  and 
they,  that  is  the  Gods,  organized  and  formed  the  heavens  and  the 
earth." 

The  creation  was  two-fold,  firstly,  spiritual ;  secondly,  tem- 
poral. All  divine  creations  have  a  spirit,  even  the  trees  and  the 
flowers.  In  other  words,  they  are  souls,  spirit  and  body  combined. 
A  learned  man  who  was  a  chemist  set  himself  to  the  task  of  making 
a  grain  of  wheat,  in  imitation  of  one  produced  by  the  God  of  nature. 
Taking  such  a  grain,  he  separated  it  into  its  component  parts,  find- 
ing that  there  was  so  much  lime,  so  much  silica,  so  much  of  this 
element  and  that,  in  its  composition.  Then,  taking  just  such 
proportions  of  each  element,  he  brought  them  together  by  his 
chemical  skill  and  created  a  grain  of  wheat,  so  exactly  similar  to 
the  natural  grain,  that  the  eye  could  not  detect  the  difference. 
But  there  was  a  difference — a  vast  difference.  He  planted  the 
two  grains,  and  the  one  that  God  made  sprang  up,  while  the  one 
that  man  made  stayed  down.  God's  wheat  grain  had  a  spirit; 
the  other  had  none. 

"There  is  a  spirit  in  man,  and  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty 
giveth  it  understanding.''  There  is  a  spirit  in  all  of  our  Father's 
creations.  They  were  made  "for  a  wise  and  glorious  purpose," 
and  will  be  perpetuated  in  the  great  hereafter.  The  poet  Byron, 
in  a  cynical  epitaph  on  the  monument  of  his  favorite  dog,  wrote: 
"Denied  in  heaven  the  soul  he  held  on  earth."  But  "Mormonism"' 
teaches  no  such  doctrine.  Joseph  Smith  declared  that  not  only 
the  human  race,  but  the  lower  orders  of  the  animal  creation  were 
designed  for  eternal  felicity.  And  John  the  Revelator  teaches  the 
same  doctrine  in  the  sublime  symbolism  of  the  Apocalypse. 

PURPOSES  OF  EARTH   LIFE 

This  earth  was  created,  not  out  of  nothing,  as  antiquated 
theology  asserts ;  but  out  of  eternal  spirit  and  eternal  element ;  and 
it  is  but  one  of  millions  like  it  that  have  been  created,  peopled  and 
redeemed  by  the  same  All-wise  God,  who  has  placed  his  children 
here,  primarily  to  give  their  spirits  bodies,  that  they  might  be- 
come souls,  capable  of  endless  increase  and  advancement;  also  that 
it  might  be  seen  whether  they  would  do  all  that  the  Lord  requires 
at  their  hands. 

We  are  here  for  education  and  development,  through  joy  and 
sorrow,  through  smiles  and  tears,  through  pleasure  and  pain, 
bitter    and   sweet,   light   and   darkness,   enduring   the   vicissitudes 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

and  contrasts  of  mortal  life,  that  we  may  become  wise  and  gain 
a  glorious  experience.  And  if  we  now  walk  by  faith,  as  we  once 
walked  by  sight,  and  keep  this  second  estate  as  we  kept  the  first, 
or  spirit  estate  (and  were  "added  upon"  for  so  doing),  we  shall  reap 
the  promised  reward  and  "have  glory  added  upon  our  heads  for- 
ever and  ever.'' 

CARLYLE  ANSWERED 

Yes,  Carlyle,  man  was  present  at  the  creation — but  not  with 
his  mortal  experience,  nor  yet  with  his  mortal  blindness.  With 
clear,  unclouded  vision  we  looked  on  while  the  foundations  of  the 
earth  were  laid ;  and  it  was  because  we  could  see  past  the  gloom 
to  the  glory  that  lay  beyond,  that  "the  morning  stars  sang  to- 
gether, and  all  the  sons  of  God  shouted  for  joy.'' 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

"Wherefore  of  these  men  *  *  *  must  one  be  ordained  to  be 
a  witness  with  us  of  his  resurrection." 

THE  GREATEST   OF  ALL  MIRACLES 

The  greatest  of  all  miracles  is  being  celebrated  by  the  Christian 
world  today  in  the  world-wide  festival  called  Easter.  Elder  Whitney 
has  referred  to  the  reasonableness  of  the  miracles  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  say 
the  greatest  of  all  miracles  is  his  resurrection  from  the  dead ;  professed 
followers  of  the  risen  Lord  are  celebrating,  in  form  at  least,  this  great 
miracle.  We  have  heard  today  that  many  people  reject  the  reality  of 
the  resurrection  of  the  Lord.  They  believe,  or  profess  to  believe,  in 
his  teachings,  but  do  not  believe  in  the  immaculate  conception,  nor  in 
his  literal  resurrection  from  the  grave ;  yet,  this  latter  fact  was  the  very 
foundation  of  the  early  Christian  church.  The  passage  I  have  just  read 
in  your  hearing  is  contained  in  the  first  chapter  of  Acts,  and  is 
accepted  as  being  the  testimony  of  Peter,  the  chief  apostle  on  the 
occasion  when  the  eleven  had  met  to  choose  one  to  take  the  place  of 
Judas  Iscariot.  It  always  interests  me  to  study  about  the  class  of  men 
that  surrounded  the  apostles  at  that  time,  from  whom  the  apostles 
chose  this  special  witness.  They  were  men  who  had  been  "witnesses" 
of  the  resurrection.  Only  such  a  one  was  considered  eligible  and  worthy 
to  be  chosen  one  of  the  Twelve  Apostles.    I  read  further: 

"This  Jesus  hath  God  raised  up,  whereof  we  all  are  witnesses. 

"Therefore  being  by  the  right  hand  of  God  exalted,  and  having  received 
of  the  Father  the  promise  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  he  hath  shed  forth  this,  which 
ye  now  see  and  hear." 

Peter  then  continues : 

"Ye  men  of  Israel,  hear  these  words;  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  a  man  approved 
of  God  among  you  by  miracles  and  wonders  and  signs,  which  God  did  by  him 
in  the  midst  of  you,  as  ye  yourselves  also  know : 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY  37 

"Him,    being   delivered   by   the   determinate   counsel   and   foreknowledge   of 
God,  ye  have  taken,  and  by  wicked  hands  have  crucified  and  slain: 
"Whom  God  hath  raised  up,  having  loosed  the  pains  of  death." 

THE  REALITY  OF  THE  RESURRECTION  OF  JESUS   CHRIST 

There  seems  to  have  been  no  question  about  the  reality  of  Christ's 
resurrection  in  Peter's  mind  when  he  spoke  to  the  very  men,  some  of 
whom  at  least,  had  been  witnesses  of  Jesus'  death.  Prior  to  this,  as  I 
have  said,  Peter  had  declared  to  the  eleven  that  "we  must  choose  from 
among  those  who  are  such  witnesses,  one  who  will  stand  by  us  as  eye 
witness  of  the  Lord's  resurrection."  There  is  no  doubt,  so  far  as  the 
first  chapter  and  the  second  chapter  of  Acts  are  concerned  that  the 
resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ  was  a  reality.  No  Christian  can  read 
it  without  being  convinced  that  these  early  apostles,  were  firmly  con- 
vinced that  the  resurrection  of  the  Lord  was  real.  Jesus  their  Lord 
was  as  real  to  them  after  his  resurrection  as  he  had  been  prior  to  his 
crucifixion,  a  man  among  them,  though  divine. 

Later  another  man  testified  to  the  same  thing.  He  was  Paul,  known 
as  Saul  of  Tarsus.  In  his  early  life  Saul  did  not  believe  that  Jesus  Christ 
had  risen  from  the  dead.  When  he  was  sitting  at  the  feet  of  Gamaliel, 
studying  the  philosophy  of  the  times,  he  undoubtedly  would  have_  ridi- 
culed the  idea.  To  that  extent,  Paul  was  a  modernist  in  every  sense  of 
the  word.  Just  before  his  conversion  he  not  only  ridiculed  the  idea,  but 
secured  papers  that  authorized  him  to  punish  all  who  did  believe  in  the 
resurrection  of  Christ,  and  yet  Paul  was  a  Pharisee,  the  members  of 
which  sect  believed  in  the  doctrine  of  the  resurrection.  However,  there 
came  a  wonderful  change  in  this  persecutor's  life.  This  same  Jesus  who 
had  been  crucified  and  who  had  risen  from  the  dead,  appeared  to 
Paul  when  he  was  on  his  way  to  Damascus  with  papers  in  his  pocket 
to-  arrest  the  saints  who  dwelt  in  that  old  city. 

"Saul,  Saul,  why  persecutest  thou  me?"  said  the  voice.  "Who  art 
thou,  Lord  ?"  "I  am  Jesus  whom  thou  persecutest.  It  is  hard  for  thee 
to  kick  against  the  pricks."  "What  wouldst  thou  have  me  do?"  "Arise 
and  go  into  the  city,  and  it  shall  be  told  thee  what  thou  must  do." 
Later  Paul  wrote  that  testimony,  and  we  have  it  today  as  the  oldest 
authentic  written  record  testifying  to  the  literal  resurrection  of  the 
Lord.  That  oldest  written  testimony  is  not  the  one  I  have  just  read 
in  Acts,  it  is  not  found  in  Matthew,  the  first  book  in  the  New  Testament, 
it  is  not  in  Mark  nor  Luke  nor  John,  but  the  first  epistle  to  the  Corin- 
thians. If  you  will  turn  there  to  that  epistle  you  will  find  a  wonderful 
array  of  testimony  to  the  reality  of  the  resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ. 
In  the  Fifteenth  Chapter  I  read  the  following : 

"For  I  delivered  unto  you  first  of  all  that  which  I  also  received,  how  that 
Christ  died  for  our  sins  according  to  the  scriptures ; 

"And  that  he  was  buried,  and  that  he  rose  again  the  third  day  according 
to  Hie  scriptures : 

"And  that  he  was  seen  of  Cephas,  then  of  the  twelve; 


38  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

"After  that,  he  was  seen  of  above  five  thousand  brethren  at  once ;  of  whom 
the  greater  part  remain  unto  this  present,  but  some  are  fallen  asleep. 

"After  that,  he  was  seen  of  James ;  then  of  all  the  apostles. 

"And  last  of  all  he  was  seen  of  me  also,  as  of  one  born  out  of  due  time. 

"For  I  am  the  least  of  the  apostles,  that  am  not  meet  to  be  called  an 
apostle,  because  I  persecuted  the  church  of  God," 

WITNESSES  TO  THE  RESURRECTION 

Some  may  say :  "If  we  knew  that  these  testimonies  were  the  direct 
testimonies  of  these  men,  then  we  should  give  full  credence  to  them." 
"But,"  say  the  critics,  "we  do  not  know  that  Peter's  testimony  as 
recorded  in  Acts  is  as  he  gave  it,  because  he  did  not  write  the  Acts  of 
the  Apostles."  True,  but  we  do  know  that  Paul  and  Luke  and  Mark 
and  other  writers  of  the  New  Testament  did  communicate  with  Peter 
as  the  chief  of  the  apostles.  We  do  know  from  this  authentic  record 
from  which  I  have  read  that  Paul  communed  with  some  of  these  five 
hundred  men,  at  least  our  inference  that  he  did  is  justifiable.  He 
watched  them  so  closely  that  when  one  of  those  eye-witnesses  died  he 
evidently  took  note  of  it  as  much  as  to  say:  "There  is  another  of  the 
eye  witnesses  to  the  resurrected  Lord  gone  to  the  other  side."  What 
else  can  you  read  in  that  phrase,  "but  some  have  fallen  asleep?"  Mark, 
Luke  and  Paul  conversed  with  Peter.  We  have  that  testimony  from 
Paul's  own  writings ;  and  what  would  be  the  nature  of  their  conversa- 
tion? "Peter,"  Paul  would  say,  "did  you  really  see  the  resurrected 
Lord  ?"  Peter's  answer  was  affirmative,  because  here  Paul  says :  "He 
was  seen  of  Cephas"  or  Peter.  Paul  in  another  place  says :  "I  con- 
versed with  James,"  who  was  then  presiding  over  the  branch  in  Jeru- 
salem. There  can  be  no  doubt  that  Paul  would  say :  "James,  did  you 
see  the  risen  Lord  ?"  James'  answer  is  found  in  the  fifteenth  chapter  of 
Corinthians. 

What  can  we  do  if  we  cannot  accept  such  irrefutable  evidence? 
To  me  their  testimonies  mean  but  one  thing,  and  that  is  that  Jesus 
Christ  who  was  born  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  who  preached  the  gospel  after 
his  own  name,  who  sought  the  lost  ones,  whose  life  as  we  know' it,  even 
from  the  fragmentary  accounts  thereof,  is  an  inspiration  and  has  been 
an  inspiration  to  millions,  for  two  thousand  years,  who  was  crucified  in 
ignominy  and  who  was  buried;  that  this  same  Jesus  Christ  arose  from 
the  grave  literally,  and  that  the  early  Christian  church  was  founded 
upon  that  divine  fact. 

THE  GREAT  AND  COMFORTING  MESSAGE 

Marvelous  miracle  it  is !  but  oh,  what  a  message  to  your  soul  and 
to  mine!  If  he,  Lord  and  Savior,  conquered  death  after  having  taken 
upon  himself  mortality,  then  we  have  the  divine  assurance  that  our 
spirits  shall  transcend  that  thing  which  we  call  death.  We  have  the 
assurance  that  our  loved  ones  who  have  gone  before,  now  live,  for  death 
cannot  touch  the  offspring  of  God,  the  spirit  which  is  divine.  That  is 
the  message. 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  M.cKAY  39 

As  was  stated  here  on  another  occasion,  we  have  witnesses  nearer 
to  our  day  than  Peter,  Mark  and  Paul  and  the  others.  This  vast 
congregation  is  assembled  on  this  Easter  day  because  of  witnesses  in 
this  dispensation,  of  the  reality  of  Christ's  resurrection,  and  the  integrity 
of  these  men  is  unquestioned,  too,  by  all  honest  persons  who  have 
studied  the  characters  of  these  witnesses.  Those  who  misunderstand  it  are 
those  who  in  ignorance  or  through  wilfulness  desire  so  to  do. 

A  LATTER-DAY  WITNESS 

The  latter-day  witness  is  this :  that  Jesus  Christ,  the  resurrected 
Lord,  appeared  by  the  side  of  his  eternal  Father  who  introduced  him  in 
this  dispensation  as  follows : 

"This  is  my  beloved  Son,  hear  him;"  As  the  Christian  church 
in  the  meridian  of  time  was  founded  upon  the  reality  of  the  living 
Christ, — not  merely  upon  the  teachings  of  the  Great  Teacher — so  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  in  this  age  was  founded  upon  the  reality  of 
Christ's  existence  and  upon  the  reality  of  his  appearance  in  this  dis- 
pensation to  the  earnest  seeking  boy,  Joseph  Smith. 

OTHER  CORROBORATIVE  WITNESSES 

Other  witnesses  corroborate  the  testimony  of  the  reality  of  Christ's 
appearing,  and  also  to  the  reality  of  the  appearing  of  resurrected  beings, 
which  confirms  the  reality  of  the  resurrection  from  the  dead.  Christ's 
personality,  as  his  divinity,  persisted  after  death.  This  being  true,  then 
God  is  beyond  all  doubt  a  resurrected  personal  being. 

"It  is  the  eye  of  faith  that  sees  the  broad  horizons,  the  color  and  the  gleam. 
Religion  standing  on  the  known  experience  of  the  race,  makes  one  bold  and 
glorious  affirmation.  She  asserts  that  this  power  that  makes  for  truth,  for 
beauty  and  for  goodness  is  not  less  personal  than  we."  [And  that  is  the  declara- 
tion of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  he  is  not  less  personal  than  we,  and  that 
his  Father,  the  eternal  Father,  is  a  personal  God.]  "This  leap  of  faith  is  justified 
because  God  cannot  be  less  than  the  greatest  of  his  works,  the  cause  must  be 
adequate  to  the  effect.  When,  therefore,  we  call  God  personal,  we  have  inter- 
preted him  by  the  loftiest  symbol  we  have.  He  may  be  infinitely  more.  He  can- 
not be  less.  When  we  call  God  a  spirit,  we  use  the  clearest  lens  we  have  to  look 
at  the  infinite.  As  Herbert  Spencer  has  well  said :  'The  choice  is  not  between 
a  personal  God  and  something  lower,  but  between  God  and  something  higher.'  " 

So  wrote  Charles  Dinsmore  of  Yale. 

WHERE    THE  L.   D.    S.    CHURCH    STANDS    ON    THE    QUESTION 

So,  the  Latter-day  Saints  declare  to  the  world  that  God  is  a  per- 
sonal God,  not  just  a  power,  and  force,  he  is  that  and  more.  He  is 
all  that  because  of  his  divine  and  eternal  personality,  and  the  Church 
stands  on  the  reality  of  the  resurrection  of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus 
Christ. 

AN  APPEAL  TO  THE  YOUTH   OF   THE   CHURCH 

Fellowworkers,  young  men  of  Israel,  standing  on  that  platform, 
having  in  our  hearts  the  testimony  that  Christ  lives,  and  that  this  is 


40  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

his  Church,  I  ask  you  how  can  we  turn  an  indifferent  ear  to  the  appeal 
made  this  morning  by  the  President  of  our  Church  to  defend,  to  honor 
the  laws  of  our  land,  to  labor  by  example  and  by  precept  to  establish  in  all 
our  communities,  a  determination  to  keep  the  communities  pure  from  the 
contaminating  influences  of  alcoholic  beverages  and  tobacco.  I  should 
like  to  see  the  application  of  this  testimony,  the  reality  of  Christ's  resur- 
rection and  belief  on  his  gospel,  made  manifest  in  a  high  moral  and  spirit- 
ual condition  that  would  radiate  righteousness  from  the  individual  lives 
and  the  communities  of  those  who  make  that  profession.  Latter-day 
Saints,  a  message  was  given  this  morning  in  an  appeal  to  sustain  the 
Eigtheenth  amendment  to  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  and  I 
hope  we  shall  never  hear  of  officers  in  the  stakes  or  in  wards,  nor  of 
young  men,  nor  young  women  who  are  led  astray  by  the  propaganda  that 
is  now  being  spread  over  this  country  with  the  avowed  intention 
to  bring  about  a  modification  of  the  prohibition  law.  If  you  have  the 
testimony  of  Jesus  Christ,  if  you  know  that  the  principles  he  has  revealed 
are  true,  then  you  will  obey  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  also  stand  by 
the  prohibition  laws  of  this  country.  Knowing  as  I  do  that  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  is  true,  I  pray  God  to  help  me  and  mine  and  my  friends 
to  be  true  to  those  principles,  which  we  all  know  Christ  will  be  pleased 
to  have  us  incorporate  in  our  lives.     Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH   FIELDING   SMITH 

I  will  read  a  verse  or  two  from  the  fifth  chapter  of  the  Gospel 
according  to  St.  John : 

"For  the  Father  loveth  the  Son,  and  sheweth  him  all  things  that  himself 
doeth ;  and  he  will  shew  him  greater  works  than  these,  that  ye  may  marvel. 

"For  as  the  Father  raiseth  up  the  dead,  and  quickeneth  them;  even  so 
the  Son  quickeneth  whom  he  will. 

"For  the  Father  judgeth  no  man,  but  hath  committed  all  judgment 
unto  the  Son: 

"That  all  men  should  honor  the   Son,   even  as  they  honor  the   Father. 

"He  that  honoreth  not  the  Son  honoreth  not  the  Father  which  hath  sent  him. 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  He  that  heareth  my  word,  and  believeth 
on  him  that  sent  me,  hath  everlasting  life,  and  shall  not  come  into  con- 
demnation ;  but  is  passed   from  death  unto  life." 

CHRIST  THE  FIRST'  FRUITS  OF  THE  RESURRECTION 

During  this  conference  we  have  had  presented  the  evidence 
from  the  scriptures  that  Jesus  Christ  arose  from  the  dead  and 
was  the  first  fruits  of  the  resurrection.  The  witnesses  of  this 
wonderful  occurrence  cannot  be  impeached.  In  this  day  the  ten- 
dency of  the  religious  world  is  away  from  this  fundamental  truth, 
and  ministers  and  teachers  are  denying  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  Only  Begotten  Son  of  God.  I  have  read  this  passage  to  show 
that  the  Savior  taught  that  no  man  can  testify  of  God  and  reject 
his  Son ;  and  that  no  man  can  deny  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Re- 


ELDER   JOSEPH   FIELDING    SMITH  41 

deemer  of  the  world  and  believe  in  the  Father  who  sent  him.  We 
must  honor  the  Father  through  the  Son,  and  he  who  rejects  the  Son 
and  denies  the  power  of  the  resurrection  knows  not  God.  Again 
the  Savior  said: 

"He  that  believeth  on  the  Son  hath  everlasting  life,  and  he 
that  believeth  not  the  Son  shall  not  see  life,  but  the  wrath  of  God 
abideth  on  him." 

This  does  not  mean  that  those  who  reject  the  Son  shall  not 
come  forth  in  the  resurrection,  for  all  shall  be  raised  from  the 
dead,  but  the  unbeliever  shall  not  partake  of  eternal  life  in  the 
kingdom  of  God  where  dwell  the  Father  and  the  Son.  It  is, 
however,  the  purpose  of  the  Father  to  extend  the  power  of  the 
resurrection  to  all  men,  through  the  atonement  of  the  Son,  and 
thus  give  immortality  to  all  his  children.  The  fact  remains, 
however,  that  we  cannot  be  in  fellowship  with  God  and  not  accept 
the  Sonship  of  Jesus  Christ  and  believe  in  his  power  to  redeem 
us  from  the  grave.  Therefore  all  who  reject  the  authority  of  the 
Son  have  the  wrath  of  God  abiding  on  them. 

WHY  THE  RESURRECTION  ? 

At  this  point  the  question  arises  in  my  mind :  Why  the  resur- 
rection ?    That  it  is  a  fact  we  know,  that  is,  we  who  are  Latter-day 
Saints,   for  the  Lord    has    revealed    it    unto    us,    and    the    scriptures 
on  this  truth  are  clear.     We  know  that   Christ  appeared   to   his 
disciples  after  his  resurrection  and  they  have  testified  of  his  ap- 
pearance unto  them.    Now,  why  should  there  be  a  resurrection  and 
the  promise  made  that  all  men  shall  come  forth  from  their  graves? 
A  great  many  people  believe  that  the  mortal  body  has  served  its 
purpose  in  this  life  and  will  not  come  forth  from  the  dead,  but  that 
the  spirit  rises  to  dwell  with  God.     Then  why  did  Jesus  Christ 
come  into  the  world  to  die?     Was  it  because  the  plan  that  the 
Father   had   arranged    in   the   beginning   had   been    frustrated,   or 
destroyed,    through    the    fall    of    man?      Adam   had    a    body   before 
death  came  upon  him  and  his  fall  was  a  part  of  the  great  plan 
of  man's  salvation.     Mortality,  and  consequently  death  is  due  to  the 
fall,  and  Jesus  Christ  came  into  the  world  to  make  reparation  and 
to  give  man,   through  the  resurrection,  immortality  and  eternal  life. 
In  the   Book  of  Mormon  we  are  informed  that  man  partakes  of 
mortality  that  he  may  obtain  experiences  that  could  not  come  to 
him  in  any  other  way,  and  that  through  his  obedience  to  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  which  is  based  on  the  infinite  sacrifice  of  the  Son 
of  God,  he  may  obtain  salvation  and  exaltation  in   the  presence 
of  the  Father  and  the  Son. 

Surely  the  Lord  understood  the  end  from  the  beginning,  and  it 
was  perfectly  understood  in  the  councils  in  the  heavens  before  the 
world  was  made,  that  Jesus  Christ  was  to  come  into  this  world 
to  die  and  thus  repair  a  broken  law  and  again  restore  life  to  man- 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

kind  that  they  might  have  it  more  abundantly.     Peter  testifies  of 
this  in  the  following  words : 

"Forasmuch  as  ye  know  that  ye  were  not  redeemed  with  corruptible 
things,  as  silver  and  gold,  from  your  vain  conversation  received  by  tradition 
from  your  fathers; 

"But  with  the  precious  blood  of  Christ,  as  of  a  lamb  without  blemish 
and   without   spot: 

"Who  verily  was  foreordained  before  the  foundation  of  the  world,  but 
was  manifest  in  these  last  times  for  you." 

So  Peter  has  testified  that  Christ  was  called  and  foreordained 
to  come  into  the  world  to  bring  to  pass  the  resurrection  and  the 
redemption  of  man  through  the  shedding  of  his  blood ;  and  this 
is  according  to  a  plan  devised  before  the  foundation  of  the  world 
was  laid.  Moreover,  the  Lord,  speaking  to  John  on  the  Isle  of 
Patmos,  says : 

"Worthy  is  the  Lamb  that  was  slain  to  receive  power,  and  riches  and 
wisdom,  and  strength,  and  honor,  and  glory  and  blessing." 

'Then  again  in  the  same  vision  it  is  written : 

"And  it  was  given  unto  him  (the  beast)  to  make  war  with  the  saints,  and 
to  overcome  them:  and  power  was  given  him  over  all  kindreds,  and  tongues, 
and   nations. 

"And  all  that  dwell  upon  the  earth  shall  worship  him,  whose  names  are 
not  written  in  the  book  of  life  of  the  Lamb  slain  from  the  foundation  of  the 
world." 

By  these  scriptures  we  are  informed  that  Christ  was  chosen 
before  man  was  on  earth  to  make  atonement  for  death  and  sin  in 
this  world  and  thus  give  to  man  immortal  life  through  the  resur- 
rection. This  doctrine  was  fully  understood  by  the  prophets  of 
old.  The  Redeemer,  himself,  while  walking  along  the  road  with 
his  two  disciples  after  his  resurrection  instructed  them  in  these 
things,  as  follows : 

"And  he  said  unto  them,  O  fools  and  slow  of  heart  to  believe  all  that 
the  prophets   have   spoken:  _  . 

"Ought  not  Christ  to  have  suffered  these  things,  and  to  enter  into  his 
glory? 

"And  beginning  with  Moses  and  the  Prophets,  he  expounded  to  them  in 
all  the  scriptures  the  things  concerning  himself." 

EXISTENCE   IN    MORTALITY    MOST   IMPORTANT 

After  this  conversation  he  met  with  the  eleven  apostles  and 
again  repeated  these  prophecies  and  later  sent  his  disciples  forth 
as  witnesses 'to  testify  of  him  in  all  the  world. 

When  men  deny  the  resurrection  of  Christ  and  the  coming 
forth  from  their  graves  of  all  mankind,  it  is  a  confession  on  their 
part  that  they  are  ignorant  of  the  work  of  the  Lord  regarding  the 
destiny  of  man.  Our  existence  in  mortality  is  most  important. 
It  is  not  accidental.  It  was  never  intended  that  we  should  pass 
through  this  life  without  coming  in  contact  with  sin,  without 
temptation,  without  mortality.  Adam  was  sent  into  the  world  to 
perform  a  mission  including  the  bringing  to  pass  these  very  things 


ELDER   JOSEPH   FIELDING    SMITH  43 

/ 

i 

that  we  in  the  mortal  state  might  obtain  experiences  by  coming 
in  contact  with  all  the  vicissitudes  of  mortal  life.  In  this  way  we 
receive  an  education  that  could  not  be  obtained  in  any  other  way. 
So  mortality  came  through  the  will  of  God,  and  through  the  fall  of 
man  death  has  passed  upon  all  men.  Through  the  atonement  of 
Jesus  Christ  life  is  restored  again  and  death  is  overcome  and 
destroyed.  Immortality  and  eternal  life  constitute  the  great  work 
of  the  Father  and  the  last  enemy  to  be  destroyed,  we  are  informed, 
is  death.  When  Christ  has  destroyed  death  by  bringing  to  pass 
the  resurrection  of  all  mankind  from  the  grave,  he  will  have  fin- 
ished his  work  and  then  he  will  deliver  up  the  kingdom  to  his 
Father. 

man's  resurrection  assured 

These  bodies  which  we  have  received  are  not  to  be  laid  away 
in  the  grave  never  to  be  taken  up  again.  Those  who  believe  such  a 
doctrine  have  no  understanding  of  the  work  of  salvation.  These 
bodies  were  given  us  that  the  spirit  might  dwell  in  them,  and  after 
passing  through  this  mortal  life,  and  death,  they  will  be  brought 
forth  in  the  resurrection,  spirit  and  body  inseparably  united — 
"Never  to  be  divided" — and  in  this  condition  the  righteous  shall 
receive  a  fulness  of  joy.  Those  who  have  not  been  righteous  and 
have  failed  to  heed  the  counsels  of  God  shall  then  receive  such 
rewards  as  they  are  entitled  to  receive  according  to  their  works, 
but  even  they  shall  die  no  more  the  temporal  death. 

The  great  work  of  the  Lord  is  to  bless  all  men  and  to  do  by 
them  the  very  best  that  he  can;  but  our  Father  in  heaven  is 
governed  by  law,  as  his  children  are  subject  to  law,  and  he,  there- 
fore, will  measure  out  to  each  man  that  which  he  is  entitled  to 
receive  according  to  his  works. 

Without  these  bodies  a  spirit  could  not  be  made  perfect,  for  it 
is  incomplete.  The  body  without  the  spirit  is  dead.  It  takes  both 
the  spirit  and  the  body  to  constitute  a  perfect  soul.  We  came  here 
to  this  earth  to  obtain  the  greatest  boon  that  could  be  given, 
physical  bodies  to  clothe  our  spirits.  The  punishment  of  Satan  and 
his  angels  is  that  they  were  denied  the  privilege  of  mortal  existence 
in  bodies  of  flesh  and  bones  because  of  their  rebellion.  The  spirit 
of  man,  clothed  in  a  tabernacle  of  flesh  and  bones,  as  Jesus  Christ 
was  after  his  resurrection,  will  have  power  through  obedience  to 
the  laws  of  the  gospel  to  advance  in  righteousness,  truth,  wisdom 
and  power,  to  the  fulness,  and  thus  become  a  son  of  God. 

So,  we  see,  our  lives  here  in  the  flesh,  where  we  endure  all  the 
ills  and  the  joys  of  mortality  is  not  accidental,  but  a  part  of  the 
great  plan  of  eternal  progression  according  to  the  decrees  of  our 
Father  in  heaven  before  this  world  came  into  being.  Here  we  are 
proving  ourselves  through  our  free  agency  for  a  place  in  eternity. 
If  we  are  faithful  and  live  in  keeping  with  the  laws  that  govern  in 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

the  kingdom  of  God,  accepting  the  mission  of  our  Lord,  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  all  mankind  from  the  grave,  and,  on 
condition  of  our  repentance,  our  Redeemer  from  our  individual  sins, 
we  shall  be  counted  worthy  of  a  place  in  the  Celestial  Kingdom  of 
God. 

May  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  be  faithful  in  the  discharge  of 
all  obligations,  commandments  and  principles  that  pertain  to  our 
salvation,  that  we  may  obtain  these  great  blessings  which  are 
promised  by  the  Father,  through  his  Only  Begotten  Son,  and 
which  cannot  be  received  only  through  obedience,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.    Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  have  received  somewhat  more  than  seventy  telephone  calls  since 
the  meeting  started,  announcing  that  people  are  listening  in  at  various 
places.  I  received  one  from  a  .nephew-in-law  of  mine,  Edward  W. 
Spencer,  of  Evanston,  in  which  he  said :  "I  got  every  word  of  your 
opening  address  over  the  radio." 

I  remember  being  ridiculed  because  I  believed  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  because  an  alleged  absolute  impossibility  was  recorded  in  that 
book,  namely  that  the  Savior's  words  were  heard  all  over  the  land.  I 
remember  saying  to  the  professor  (I  was  a  young,  unmarried  man  at 
the  time),  that  I  believed  in  a  God  who  could  arrange,  if  he  saw  fit 
to  do  so,  that  the  words  of  Jesus  Christ  could  be  heard  all  over  the 
world.  I  remember  reading  recently  of  a  man  who  heard  a  song  nine 
thousand  miles  over  the  radio.  He  was  in  a  house  with  the  doors  closed, 
and  the  song  was  sung  in  a  house  or  station  with  the  doors  closed, 
nine  thousand  miles  away.  Thank  the  Lord  for  faith  as  a  boy,  in  the 
truths  that  are  being  demonstrated,  which  were  miracles  beyond  all 
belief  in  early  days  !  Thank  the  Lord  for  the  testimony  of  Joseph  Smith 
and  Sidney  Rigdon: 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him,  this  is 
the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him :  That  he  lives ! 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father — 

"That  by  him,  and,  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were 
created,  and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto  God." 


Following  the  announcement  of  the  general  Priesthood  meeting 
to  be  held  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Monday  evening  at  7  o'clock ;  the 
Sunday  School  Union  conference  meeting  to  be  held  at  7  o'clock  on 
Sunday  evening ;  and  the  special  Priesthood  meeting  to  be  held  Wednes- 
day morning,  April  7,  the  choir  sang  the  "Hallelujah  Chorus." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Charles  E.  Rowan,  Jr.,  president  of 
the  Garfield  stake  of  Zion. 

The  conference  adjourned  until  Monday  morning,  at  10  o'clock, 
April    5. 


ELDER  J.    GOLDEN  KIMBALL  45 

FIRST  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

An  overflow  meeting  of  the  conference  was  held  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Sunday,  April  4,  1926. 

Elder  J.  Golden  Kimball,  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy, 
presided. 

The  combined  choirs  of  Murray  First  ward  and  Mill  Creek  ward, 
of  the  Cottonwood  stake,  W.  F.  Robinson  directing,  Tracy  Y.  Cannon 
at  the  organ,  provided  the  music. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Come,  dearest  Lord,  descend  and 
dwell." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Nicholas  G.  Smith, 
bishop  of  the  Seventeenth  ward,  Salt  Lake  City. 

The  choir  sang,  "In  our  Redeemer's  name." 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

As  I  approached  the  door  of  the  Tabernacle  this  morning,  though 
I  had  ample  time  if  I  could  have  gotten  in,  I  was  caught  in  a  jam  and 
I  could  not  get  one  way  or  the  other;  and  finally  I  heard  my  name 
announced  by  President  Grant.  I  was  to  take  charge  of  the  meeting 
in  the  Assembly  Hall.  I  did  not  take  time  to  find  out  who  was  ap- 
pointed with  me ;  my  difficulty  was  to  get  out.  You  know,  sometimes 
you  cannot  get  in  and  other  times  you  cannot  get  out;  that  was  my 
case  his  morning.  So  I  rushed  over  here,  but  was  somewhat  disturbed, 
as  it  is  a  little  unusual  for  me  to  preside  over  any  of  our  general  con- 
ference assemblies.  Brethren  and  sisters,  I  do  not  know  much,  but 
what  I  do  know,  I  know  well ;  I  am  a  well-trained  soldier ;  I  have 
been  laboring  in  the  Church  under  the  direction  of  the  general  author- 
ities for  over  35  years;  I  have  seen  a  whole  council  of  the  Twelve  fill 
their  missions  and  pass  over,  and  still  live,  and  I  know  from  my 
missionary  experience  in  the  world  and  at  home,  that  we  are  the 
servants  of  the  living  God ;  that  we  hold  divine  authority ;  that  every 
member  in  this  Church,  from  the  least  unto  the  greatest,  is  entitled 
to  revelation  and  inspiration  and  the  spirit  of  prophecy  for  his  own  guid- 
ance. If  it  is  otherwise,  the  only  answer  we  have  is  that  since  the 
Holy  Ghost  was  conferred  upon  you  by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  you  have 
not  had  faith  and  kept  the  commandments  of  God.  That  is  the 
inspiration  that  gives  life  to  this  Church,  and  as  long  as  the  members 
of  this  Church,  together  with  the  general  authorities,  are  under  the 
inspiration  of  Almighty  God,  there  is  no  use  of  being  non-plussed  or 
overcome,  for  God  will  put  it  into  our  mouths  what  to  do,  what  to  say, 
and  will  guide  and  lead  us  into  all  truth.  I  thought  I  would  like 
to  say  that  to  you  good  people.  Several  of  the  brethren  named  by 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  to  speak  at  this  meeting  have  failed  to  receive 
word  of  their  appointment.  Up  until  now  only  three  of  us  have 
arrived.    But  we  are  here,  and  we  are  dependent  upon  the  Lord  to  guide 


46  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

and  direct  us.  I  would  like  to  ask  you  good  people  if  you  are  in  the 
habit,  in  our  assemblies  and  places  of  worship,  of  offering  a  few  words 
of  prayer  in  your  heart  for  those  who  are  to  speak  to  us?  Very  few 
know  just  who  is  going  to  be  appointed;  and  I  am  a  believer  that  our 
people  are  very  careless  about  those  things  and  place  the  whole  responsi- 
bility upon  the  speaker.  My  experience  has  been  that  there  is  a  great 
responsibility  resting  upon  the  Saints,  and  that  we  need  to  call  in  the 
wanderings  of  our  minds  and  centralize  them  upon  God  the  Father 
and  upon  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  in  behalf  of  God's  servants — not  only 
to  pray  for  them,  but  to  ask  God  to  give  them  inspiration,  so  that  they 
will  open  their  mouths  and  use  the  talent  which  the  Lord  God  "has 
given  every  one  of  us,  I  am  getting  somewhat  timid  myself,  because 
once  in  a  while  I  make  a  mistake.  But  if  God  ever  created  a  man, 
aside  from  the  Savior,  who  has  not  made  any  mistakes,  I  would  like 
to  have  him  pointed  out.  We  make  mistakes,  hence,  when  we  speak 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  and  when  we  prophesy,  we  need  the  Spirit 
of  God. 

I  saw  an  old  gentleman  yesterday  whom  I  met  way  down  in 
Arizona,  years  and  years  ago,  when  our  people  were  in  poverty  and  were 
about  to  disorganize  the  stake,  because  everything  had  gone  to  pieces 
for  the  time  being ;  and  he  said,  "Brother  Kimball,  I  want  to  call  your 
attention  to  something  that  happened  years  ago.  You  were  in  the 
little  one-horse  town,  as  I  called  it  then,  with  the  presidency  of  the 
stake,  and  you  were  there  alone  representing  the  brethren  of  the 
Church."  The  presidency  of  the  stake  presented  the  name  of  a  man 
to  be  bishop  of  that  ward.  I  said  to  them,  "That  bishop  will  not  remain 
long."  "Well,"  they  said,  "Brother  Kimball,  whom  would  you  choose?" 
"Well,  if  I  were  choosing,  I  would  choose  that  fellow  over  there 
sitting  on  the  end  of  the  seat ;  he  will  make  you  a  good  bishop." 
But  they  put  the  first  man  in,  and  he  did  not  hold  out  two  years,  and 
afterwards  they  put  in  the  other  man,  whom  I  suggested,  and  he  is  one 
of  the  best  bishops  they  have  had.  I  merely  speak  of  this  to  impress 
you  that  God  can  inspire  his  servants,  and  they  can  prophesy  and  it 
will  come  true. 

Now,  brethren,  pray  in  your  hearts ;  you  need  not  make  any  to-do 
about  it,  but  ask  the  Lord  to  inspire  his  servants  to  say  things  that  will 
answer  the  questions  and  doubts  that  are  creeping  into  the  hearts  of 
God's  people ;  for  doubt  and  uncertainty  is  creeping  into  the  hearts  of  a 
number  of  our  people.  I  want  to  say  to  you,  in  the  name  of  Israel's 
God,  that  if  we  do  not  live  the  right  life  and  keep  that  light  burning  in 
our  hearts  as  a  living  fire,  so  that  you  may  know  always  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  we  may  lose  that  knowledge  on  the  morrow  or  during 
the  year — if  we  are  careless  and  indifferent.  My  father  said  before  he 
died,  and  kept  saying,  "O  the  test,  the  test,  the  test ;  who  will  be  able 
to  stand?"  He  came,  to  his  home  on  the  Kimball  block  at  the  south 
door,  where  my  mother  lived,  and  where  I  was  born,  and  said,  "O  the 
test,  the  test,  the  test;  who  will  be  able  to  stand?"     It  was  but  a  very 


ELDER  J.   GOLDEN  KIMBALL  47 

short  time  after  repeating  this  statement  that  he  was  stricken  with 
paralysis  and  never  spoke  a  word  afterward.  My  mother  said,  "Brother 
Kimball  what  is  the  test?"  and  he  said,  "I  don'*  know,  but  only  those 
who  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  will  be  able       stand." 

Now,  brethren,  you  can  judge  yourselves.  L>o  not  bother  about  me. 
Be  concerned  about  yourselves,  and  I  will  get  along  the  best  way  I 
can.  If  I  do  not  make  it,  there  is  no  reason  why  you  should  not; 
and  if  I  can  make  it,  anybody  can  make  it.  That  is  my  personal  idea. 
I  do  not  know  whether  that  is  an  encouragement  to  you  or  not. 

ELDER  JAMES  H.  ROBINSON 

President  of  the  South  Davis  Stake 

I  feel  very  humble,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  very  much  de- 
pendent upon  our  heavenly  Father.  This  is  the  first  time  in  my  life 
that  I  have  been  called  upon  to  address  the  people  of  God  in  one  of 
our  general  conferences,  and  I  can  assure  you  that,  while  I  feel  very 
grateful  for  this  opportunity,  I  feel  very  humble  and  very  dependent 
upon  our  heavenly  Father.  I  realize  most  fully  that  we  are  engaged 
in  the  work  of  our  Father,  the  Creator  of  the  heavens  and  the  earth, 
and  the  Father  of  our  spirits ;  and  I  know,  too,  that  to  speak  to 
his  people,  who  have  listened  to  the  servants  of  the  Lord  and  obeyed 
the  promptings  of  the  spirit,  who  have  embraced  the  faith  and  are 
endeavoring  to  carry  out  the  work  of  our  Father  upon  the  earth — to 
feed  you  people — a  man  must  be  inspired  of  our  Father.  This  is  his 
work,  and  we  know  and  understand  the  things  of  God  only  through 
the  Spirit  of  our  Father.  It  is  not  the  elegant  words  spoken  by 
masters  of  the  English  language,  or  the  learning  of  men  that  can 
send  that  prompting  and  that  inspiration  and  conviction  to  the  hearts 
of  God's  people.  It  can  only  be  sent  there  through  the  inspiration  of 
our  Father.  And  while  I  know,  too,  that  we  as  individuals  are  not 
permitted  to  have  inspiration  or  revelation  for  the  Church,  I  know  by 
experience  that  we  are  entitled  to  that  revelation  and  that  inspiration 
for  our  own  guidance,  and  to  help  us  in  the  discharge  of  all  the  duties 
and  responsibilities  that  rest  upon  us.  And  if  we  are  not  in  communion 
with  that  spirit,  it  is  because  our  receiving  instrument  is  out  of  tune;  for 
our  Father  in  heaven  will  never  neglect  his  people,  will  never  fail  to 
do  his  part;  and  if  I  am  not  receiving  the  inspiration  of  the  Father,  it 
is  because  of  some  act  in  my  life  or  some  neglect,  or  something,  that 
has  gotten  the  instrument  God  has  given  to  me  in  his  Spirit  out  of 
tune  with  the  sending  instrument  of  our  Father.  Our  Father  has  told 
us,  through  the  Prophet  Brigham  Young,  that  every  spirit  is  born 
pure  into  the  earth,  and  it  becomes  contaminated  only  as  the  spirit 
is  subject  to  the  tabernacle  of  flesh  in  which  it  is  encased;  for  our 
tabernacles  are  earthy,  and  made  up  of  the  earth  and  are  subject  to  death. 
And  just  as  our  spirits  are  overcome  by  the  weaknesses  of  that  body, 
are  we  out  of  harmony  with  our  Father. 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

I  know  that  this  work  is  true ;  I  know  that  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  was  indeed  a  prophet  of  God ;  and  I  know  that  the  Savior  is 
the  Son  of  God;  and  that  this  work  has  been  established  in  the 
earth  in  these  last  days  never  again  to  be  thrown  down  or 
given  to  another  people.  And  I  realize,  too,  that  simply 
to  be  a  member  of  this  Church  does  not  mean  exaltation;  for  just  as 
surely  as  the  Lord  has  given  us  our  free  agency,  just  so  surely 
must  we  exercise  that  agency  in  the  right  direction.  Joining  this 
Church  and  doing  nothing  in  it  will  not  bring  us  salvation  or 
exaltation ;  for  the  Lord  has  given  us  the  plan,  and  he  has  given  us 
the  knowledge  that  he  lives  and  that  this  is  his  work,  and  then 
he  has  left  us  to  work  out  our  own  salvation.  And  we  have  a 
mighty  responsibility  resting  upon  us  as  Latter-day  Saints ;  for 
we  not  only  have  to  live  the  gospel  at  home,  but  it  is  our  mission 
to  take  it  to  every  nation  of  the  earth.  And  when  we  consider  the 
few  Latter-day  Saints  that  there  are,  compared  with  the  numerous 
hosts  of  the  whole  world,  we  can  understand  to  a  small  degree  the 
responsibility  that  this  is.  Wben  the  beloved  John  was  cast  upon 
the  isle  of  Patmos  and  he  was  permitted  to  look  down  through  the 
stream  of  time ;  when  he  saw  that  angel  flying  through  the  midst  of 
heaven  having  the  everlasting  gospel  to  preach  to  all  the  inhab- 
itants of  the  earth,  he  saw  our  day,  and  we  are  living  in  fulfilment 
of  that  revelation  that  was  given  to  John  the  divine,  for  that  angel 
has  flown  from  the  midst  of  heaven,  and  has  delivered  this  message 
to  the  inhabitants  of  this  earth  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
We  are  carrying  out  that  vision  and  that  prediction  that  was  made 
by  our  beloved  prophet  when  he  saw  these  things. 

I  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  may  be  able  to  live 
up  to  all  of  the  duties,  obligations  and  responsibilities  that  rest  upon 
us.  We  sometimes  speak  of  its  being  our  duty  to  do  the  things 
in  this  Church  that  we  are  called  upon  to  do,  but  I  take  it  that 
it  is  more  of  a  privilege.  We  ought  to  assume  it  as  one  of  the 
highest  privileges  in  our  lives  that  we  are  permitted  to  hold  the 
Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God,  that  we  are  permitted  to  act 
in  the  name  of  our  Father  in  heaven  and  to  be  his  ambassadors 
upon  the  earth  to  carry  out  his  work.  This  is  a  privilege  of  which 
we  ought  to  be  proud  and  glad  to  receive  and  glad  to  carry  out  in 
our  lives.  I  pray  that  we  may  be  loyal  and  devoted  to  this  cause, 
spending  our  energies  and  efforts  and  all  that  we  have  and  are  in 
helping  to  establish  God's  work  in  the  earth,  I  pray,  in  Jesus'  name. 
Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  R.  MURDOCK 

President  of  the  Wasatch  Stake 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  certainly  desire  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers,  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  be  with  me 


ELDER  JOSEPH  R.  MURDOCK  49 

during  the  few  minutes  that  I  may  stand  before  you.  Of  myself, 
I  have  always  felt  a  great  timidity  in  speaking  on  the  things  per- 
taining to  the  kingdom  of  heaven  in  the  presence  of  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  feeling  my  natural  weakness.  It  is  not  because  I 
dislike  to  meet  with  them  and  listen  to  the  remarks  of  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  but  rather  it  is  a  timid  feeling  about  attempting  to 
address  them.  It  is  easier  for  me  to  listen  to  good  things  than 
it  is  to  say  them.  But  I  have  a  testimony  of  the  truth  just  the 
same.  I  had  a  little  witness  of  that  this  morning.  In  our  meeting 
of  Religion  Class  officers,  in  one  of  the  buildings  near  the  Bishops' 
Building,  I  was  very  much  pleased  with  the  remarks  of  a  young 
lady,  who  told  us  of  her  experience  in  training  the  boys,  impressing 
upon  us  the  necessity  of  doing  individual  work  with  the  boys 
and  girls  and  not  with  the  people  as  a  whole  so  much.  I  have 
felt  that  the  same  thing  may  apply  to  our  older  brethren,  to  our 
men  and  women,  who  necessarily,  it  seems,  have  to  be  encouraged 
individually ;  and  the  great  truths  and  principles  of  the  gospel 
which  we  have  embraced  give  us  an  opportunity  from  time  to  time 
to  explain,  expound,  encourage,  and  build  up  one  another  in  the 
great  work  in   which  we  are  engaged. 

She  gave  some  very  nice  illustrations  of  her  work,  which  time 
will  not  permit  me  to  repeat  further  than  to  impress  upon  you,  or 
those  of  you  who  were  not  present  at  that  meeting  in  the  Barrett 
Hall,  that  there  is  such  a  work  going  on  in  this  Church  as 
Religion  Class  work.  I  do  not  know  how  many  of  you  have  ever 
attended  the  Religion  Class  in  the  respective  communities  from 
which  you  have  come,  or  how  many  of  you  encourage  your  boys 
and  girls  to  attend,  that  they  may  get  the  spirit  of  this  work  early 
in  life.  I  want  to  encourage  you,  if  there  are  any  who  do  not, 
that  you  take  this  up.  It  may  seem  to  some  to  be  the.  least  im- 
portant work,  but  I  want  to  tell  you  that  it  is  not  least  in  the 
Wasatch  stake  of  Zion.  More  than  90%  of  our  boys  and  girls 
who  attend  the  district  schools  are  attending  Religion  Class;  and 
in  .our  seminary  work,  nearly  that  percentage  of  those  in  the  high 
school  attend  our  seminary  and  are  instructed.  And  of  that 
group,  practically  all  of  our  missionaries  from  the  Wasatch  stake, 
numbering  between  twenty  and  thirty  of  the  long-time  missionaries, 
nearly  90%,  are  young  men  and  young  women  who  were  in  the 
seminary  and  were  taught  in  the  Religion  Class.  In  the  Religion 
Class  the  foundation  was  laid;  they  received  their  faith  in  the 
principles  of  the  gospel,  and  such  information  as  they  should  re- 
ceive at  the  age  when  they  attend.  I  do  not  know  of  any  other 
work  that  has  been  of  greater  result  and  benefit  in  the  A¥asatch 
stake  than  the  Religion  Class  work  and  the  seminaries.  I  want  to 
endorse  most  heartily  the  Religion  Classes  and  to  encourage  the 
brethren  and  sisters  in  the  respective  communities  to  uphold  the 
teachers,  to  recognize  their  work.    It  would  not  be  amiss  to  say  a 


50  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

kindly  word  to  those  who  are  teaching  your  Religion  Class  in  your 
respective  wards  and  ask  them  how  your  boys  and  girls  are  getting 
along,  whether  they  are  truant  or  whether  they  are  remaining  for 
Religion  Class. 

It  was  told  to  us  today  that  some  parents  thought  their  children 
were  attending  Religion  Class,  and  when  they  received  the  report, 
they  found  they  were  not  there  half  the  time.  Whose  boys  and 
girls  are  they,  and  what  are  they  worth  to  us?  Without  our  boys 
and  girls,  it  would  seem  to  me  that  we  have  accomplished  prac- 
tically nothing  in  the  world.  If  we  have  permitted  them  to  slip 
away  from  us  and  lose  faith  in  the  gospel  and  in  Jesus  Christ,  in 
this  great  latter-day  work,  I  would  like  to  know  what  we  have  ac- 
complished !  We  have  made  a  living;  may  have  accumulated  wealth, 
which  we  do  not  take  with  us;  but  those  of  our  loved  ones  are  of 
the  treasures  of  this  earth  which,  if  they  are  saved  in  the  kingdom 
of  heaven,  thieves  will  not  steal  from  us,  moth  and  rust  will  not 
corrupt.  They  are  the  most  important  of  all  the  treasures  and  of 
all  the  work  that  we  may  accomplish  in  this  life.  So  I  want  to 
endorse  with  my  full  heart  and  support  the  work  of  Religion  Class 
and  seminary.  It  is  no  fifth  wheel.  It  came  in  the  due  time  of 
the  Lord,  when  we  needed  that  kind  of  instruction,  and  it  should 
be  carried  out,  and  no  doubt  is  in  other  stakes,  if  I  got  the  spirit 
of  that  meeting  this  morning. 

Another  speaker,  Brother  Bennion,  said  he  was  reminded  of  a 
question  that  one  of  our  noted  authors,  Elbert  Hubbard,  had  pro- 
posed and  answered.  He  asked,  "Is  a  lady  as  good  as  a  man?"  and 
he  answered,  "She  is,  if  she  is."  Our  ladies  are  just  as  good  as  our 
men,  if  they  do  just  as  well  in  accomplishing  the  work  to  which 
they  are  assigned;  and  they  have  a  most  splendid  opportunity  in 
Religion  Class  work,  because  we  have  so  many  sisters  who  are 
school  teachers.  I  am  pleased  to  report  that  the  school  teachers 
in  the  Wasatch  stake  are  not  adverse  to  teaching  Religion  Class. 

Attending  the  meetings  on  this  occasion  reminds  me  very  much 
of  a  meeting  I  attended,  about  fifty  or  sixty  years  ago  as  a  boy 
upon  this  block.  In  a  recent  issue  of  the  Improvement  Era  I  read  an 
article  in  which  reference  was  made  to  the  conversion,  if  you  please, 
or  the  second  conversion  or  bringing  to  these  valleys,  of  Martin 
Harris,  a  witness  to  the  Book  of  Mormon ;  how  one  of  our  elders 
found  him  in  the  world  and  brought  encouraging  words  to  him  of 
the  gospel  and  asked  him  why  he  left  the  Church.  He  said  he 
did  not  leave  the  Church,  but  the  Church  left  him,  and  I  guess  that 
was  true.  He  remained  in  that  country  for  a  great  many  years,  and 
finally  through  the  encouraging  words  that  were  carried  to  him,  he 
came  to  Zion.  The  thought  occurs  to  me :  How  many  are  there 
of  our  brethren  and  sisters  who  are  slack  in  their  duties,  probably 
negligent,  doing  nothing  in  the  Church,  as  he  had  been  doing  for 
so  many  years,  only  bearing  his  testimony  as  one  of  the  witnesses 


ELDER  JOSEPH  R.  MURDOCK  51 

to  the  Book  of  Mormon?  Are  there  any  other  men  of  his  age  who 
need  an  encouraging  word?  Are  there  any  of  us  who  are  willing  to 
give  it?  Are  we  interested  in  their  salvation?  Next  to  our  own 
immediate  families,  I  do  not  know  of  anybody  we  are  going  to 
encounter  in  the  next  world  who  will  bring  to  us  the  joy  and 
satisfaction  that  our  friends  will  bring,  and  especially  those  who 
have  given  us  encouraging  words  in  this  life  and  who  have  helped 
us  to  set  aside  the  cares  of  this  world  and  turn  our  attention  unto 
the  things  of  heaven.  I  was  particularly  impressed  with  his 
testimony  which  I  read  in  the  Era,  because  it  was  my  great 
pleasure,  as  a  boy  about  ten  years  of  age,  to  sit  and  listen  to  the 
testimony  of  Martin  Harris,  that  an  angel  of  the  Lord  showed  him 
the  records  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  translated  and 
declared  to  him  that  they  were  true  and  were  translated  by  the 
gift  and  power  of  God.  It  was  a  great  encouragment  to  me  at  the 
time  I  heard  it.  It  has  been  a  great  encouragement  to  me  from  the 
time  I  heard  it  up  to  the  present  time  that  this  man,  Martin  Harris, 
was  alive  and  testified  in  my  presence  on  these  grounds.  I  cannot 
remember  which  building  it  was  in.  But  he  testified  that  the 
angel  of  the  Lord  appeared  to  him. 

Did'  the  angel  of  the  Lord  appear  to  him?  Undoubtedly  he 
did.  It  was  his  testimony,  and  the  testimony  of  those  of  his 
associates,  that  the  angel  of  the  Lord  appeared  to  them,  which 
carries  to  me  the  most  convincing  evidence  that  Joseph  Smith  actu- 
ally saw  the  Father  and  the  Son.  If  Martin  Harris  saw  an  angel 
of  the  Lord,  and  the  angel  testified  to  him  that  this  book  was 
translated  by  the  power  of  God,  then  it  is  not  unreasonable  to 
suppose  that  Joseph  Smith  actually  saw  the  Father  and  the  Son. 
And  how  important  that  is  in  this  day  of  skepticism,  when  even 
the  Christian  world  is  denying  that  God  is  a  personal  being  and 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son,  that  faith  might  not  depart  entirely 
from  the  earth,  but  that  there  might  be  those  who  still  believe 
in  the  divinity  of  the  mission  of  Jesus  Christ  and  that  he  was 
divine ;  that  God  truly  created  us  in  his  image ;  that  we  are  his 
offspring,  and  that  Jesus  Christ  is  our  elder  brother ;  and  that  as 
he  is,  we  may  become. 

To  my  mind  it  was  a  great  encouragement  to  me  as  a  boy, 
and  I  thank  the  Lord  that  I  believed  it,  and  that  the  Lord  has 
given  me  a  believing  heart  in  the  testimony  of  the  brethren.  I 
have  never  heard  a  brother  speak  from  this  stand,  or  any  other 
in  this  Church,  but  my  heart  seemed  to  respond  to  the  statements 
that  he  made  and  I  believed  them ;  and  it  has  not  hurt  me.  It 
has  strengthened  my  faith  in  God  and  made  life  tolerable  and 
desirable  even  in  times  of  trouble.  It  has  strengthened  my  faith 
that  this  life  is  not  all  of  the  mission  which  our  Father  in  heaven 
has  set  for  us.     If  God  lives  and  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God, 


52  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

he  was   truly   resurrected,   though  the   Christian   world   today  do 
not  generally  accept  it. 

I  have  listened  to  a  most  beautiful  sermon — so  far  as  words 
are  concerned — in  one  of  our  picture  shows  here  in  Salt  Lake.  It 
was  said  that  an  able  speaker  was  going  to  talk,  and  I  attended 
to  hear  what  he  said.  He  told  us  nothing  about  the  Father,  be- 
cause he  did  not  know  anything  about  him,  his  personality,  nor 
even  the  image  in  which  he  is.  He  could  not  believe  the  Bible, 
that  God  created  man  in  his  own  image.  He  told  us  nothing  about 
Jesus  Christ  nor  his  resurrection,  because  he  did  not  believe  it  him- 
self, and  he  did  not  understand  and  did  not  know.  But  he  made 
a  most  sympathetic  appeal  and  a  speech  which  brought  tears  to  the 
eyes  of  many  of  those  who  were  in  the  congregation,  speaking 
of  the  great  labors  and  work  that  had  been  accomplished  in  the 
great  world  war  and  of  our  great  nation  and  its  achievements.  But 
he  did  not  have  the  testimony  that  there  ever  was  a  resurrection, 
that  Jesus  Christ  was  resurrected  from  the  dead.  The  world,  even 
the  Christian  world — not  as  a  whole,  possibly,  but  individually — 
has  denied  that  great  accomplishment  or  work  of  our  Father  in 
heaven  upon  which,  to  my  notion,  all  our  hopes  and  faith  are 
centered.  If  there  be  no  resurrection,  what  will  there  be  for  us 
when  we  pass  from  this  earth?  Some  may  claim  that  we  will  still 
have  an  existence  in  the  spirit  world.  "We  will  go  back  where 
we  were  before  we  came  here,"  may  be  their  argument,  "as  spirits, 
and  be  able  to  dwell  on  the  top  of  a  topless  throne,  or  in  the  clouds 
of  heaven ;  we  will  be  retrogressive,  going  backwards  instead  of 
forward."  But  the  Almighty  intended  that  the  spirit  should  be 
united  with  the  body  and  assume  the  responsibilities  of  this  life, 
which  are  many.  We  have  all  seen  that  we  can  take  care  of  and 
accomplish  the  things  in  this  life,  learning  of  those  things  which  we 
cannot  learn  so  well  in  the  eternal  world,  because  the  knowledge 
which  we  acquire  in  this  world  goes  with  us ;  and  the  memory  of 
our  first  estate  is  taken  from  us,  that  we  may  be  absolutely  free 
to  act,  relying  upon  our  owri  agency  and  doing  what  is  in  our 
hearts  and  what  we  desire  to  do.  And  if  our  hearts  are  inclined 
unto  righteousness  and  we  love  the  works  of  God  more  than  we  love 
evil,  we  will  become  righteous;  and  if  we  overcome  evil  with  good 
and  serve  God  and  keep  his  commandments,  it  will  be  largely 
through  our  own  efforts  and  desire  and  love  of  the  truth.  So 
without  the  resurrection,  it  would  be  retrogression,  going  back  into 
the  spirit  world  whence  we  came — which  may  possibly  be  the 
lot  of  some — but  I  trust  it  will  not  be  the  lot  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  trust  that  we  will  go  on,  having  received  our  bodies  again, 
and  become  as  the  Savior  was  after  his  resurrection,  when  he  said, 
"Handle  me,  for  a  spirit  hath  not  flesh  and  bones  as  you  see  me 
have."  He  was  handled,  he  was  seen,  after  his  resurrection,  by 
many  of  his   disciples,   his   apostles,   and   nearly   five  hundred   on 


ELDER  JOSEPH  R.  MURDOCK  53 

another  occasion,  in  this  life;  and  then  again  upon  this  continent, 
with  a  body  such  as  we  expect  to  receive  in  the  eternal  world,  and  not 
as  a  spirit  without  a  body. 

May  the  Lord  enable  us  to  understand  and  appreciate  the 
great  blessings  that  we  enjoy,  and  be  able  to  grasp  the  encouraging 
things  which  he  gives ;  the  testimony  of  the  prophets,  of  Joseph  and 
Hyrum,  and  of  those  who  have  succeeded  them  in  the  presidency 
of  the  Church,  in  the  visitation  of  those  brethren  and  the  testi- 
mony of  the  witnesses.  And  may  faith  grow  in  our  hearts  and  a 
testimony  of  God  and  of  his  purposes;  for  it  is  impossible,  says  the 
prophet,  for  us  to  be  saved  in  ignorance;  we  must  grow  and  obtain 
understanding  of  the  mind  and  of  the  purposes  of  the  Lord  and 
develop  the  mind  which  God  has  given  us,  which  is  the  most 
wonderful  part  of  the  human  soul.  It  is  after  the  order  of  God,  the 
eternal  Father,  and  as  no  man  can  comprehend  all  that  man  can  do 
or  may  do  in  their  day,  it  appears  to  me  that  there  are  none  of 
us  who  comprehend  what  we  can  do,  how  faithful  we  can  be,  how 
many  testimonies  of  the  gospel  we  may  have  and  what  may  be  our 
lot,  even  in  this  life,  if  we  strive  for  it ;  or  what  shall  be  the 
blessings  which  God  has  in  store  for  his  faithful  sons  and  daughters 
in  the  eternal  world.  May  God  enable  us  to  strive  and  to  continue  to 
do  his  will  and  keep  his  commandments  all  the  days  of  our  lives, 
is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  risen  Redeemer  and 
our  Savior.     Amen. 

ELDER  NEWELL  K.  YOUNG 

Of  the  L.  D.  S.  University  Faculty 

I  feel  very  keenly  my  unworthiness  and  lack  of  preparation. 
Pray  with  me  that  I  may  be  blessed  to  respond  to  the  call  of  the 
servants  of  the  Lord  to  say  something  about  the  resurrection  of  the 
Christ. 

First,  I  ,would  tell  you  of  the  witnesses  of  that  resurrection,  the 
people  to  whom  the  Master  appeared  on  that  Sunday  morning  nearly 
1900  years  ago — for  this  is  Easter  Sunday,  the  anniversary  of  that 
great  day. 

But  may  I  say  a  word  of  preface,  that  I  would  rather  speak  of 
Jesus  Christ  and  his  life,  his  self-sacrifice,  his  love,  his  manliness,  his 
divinity,  and  of  his  death  and  resurrection  than  of  any  other  theme  in 
all  the  world.  His  death  was  voluntary,  he  gave  his  life,  laid  it  down  of 
himself,  declaring  that  plainly,  as  found  in  the  tenth  chapter  of  John, 
in  the  sermon  of  the  Good  Shepherd.  He  had  the  power  and  authority 
from  the  Father  to  lay  his  life  down  and  take  it  up.  No  man  took  it 
from  him.  I  believe  that  I  can  say  without  error  that  in  the  last 
fifteen  years  I  have  scarcely  had  a  waking  hour,  day  or  night,  that  my 
mind  and  thought  and  my  heart  have  not  turned  for  at  least  a  minute 
or  two  to  him,  and  many  days  I  spend  hours  and  hours  thinking  of 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

him.  In  these  fifteen  years  I  have  lain  awake  much  at  night  with 
bodily  pain,  and  my  thought  of  him,  my  communion  with  him — not  to 
him — his  communion  with  me,  and  the  touch  of  his  presence  and 
Spirit,  have  turned  hundreds  of  nights  of  pain  and  restlessness  into 
benedictions  and  blessings  to  be  remembered  forever  with  gratitude 
and  joy. 

I  should  like  first  to  speak  of  the  facts  or  incidents  connected 
with  the  resurrection,  and  then  say  something  of  its  meaning  and 
significance. 

The  first  to  see  Jesus  resurrected  was  Mary  Magdalene,  with 
whom  he  spoke  and  to  whom  he  revealed  himself.  In  her  joy,  she 
hastened  to  embrace  or  take  hold  of  him,  and  he  said,  "Touch  me  not ; 
for  I  am  not  yet  ascended  to  my  Father." 

The  second  appearance  was  to  a  number  of  women,  and  as  he 
spoke  to  them,  he  told  them  to  tell  his  brethren  that  they  should  go 
into  Galilee,  and  there  they  should  see  him.  That  ought  to  be  a  com- 
fort to  mothers  and  wives  and  women,  that  the  first  message  of  the 
risen  Lord  to  his  brethren  was  sent  by  these  anxious,  devoted,  eager 
women,  who  were  first  to  the  tomb  in  memory  and  reverence  of  his 
pierced  body. 

During  that  day  he  appeared  to  two  of  the  disciples  who  were 
walking  from  Jerusalem  to  Emmaus,  and  walked  with  them  and  con- 
versed with  them  without  their  beholding  or  understanding  who  he 
was.  They  were  astonished  when  he  asked  them  what  it  was  they  were 
talking  about  as  he  approached,  what  the  thing  was  that  was  in  their 
hearts ;  and  they  asked  if  he  was  a  stranger  in  Jerusalem.  They 
thought  no  man  could  have  been  there  these  last  days  without  knowing, 
and  told  him  of  his  own  crucifixion  and  of  his  own  burial  in  the  tomb, 
and  that  certain  women  had  been  there  with  two  of  the  brethren,  who 
were  Peter  and  John,  and  found  the  tomb  empty.  And  then  they 
said,  "But  we  trusted  that  it  had  been  he  which  should  have  redeemed 
Israel." 

That  same  day  he  appeared  to  ten  of  the  apostles  in  an  upper 
room,  talked  to  them,  ministered  to  them,  let  them  see  the  nail  prints 
in  his  hands  and  feet.  Thomas  was  not  with  them ;  he  was  away. 
Judas,  of  course,  had  gone. 

A  week  from  that  day  he  appeared  to  the  eleven,  including  Thomas. 
In  the  mean  time,  Thomas  had  said,  that  he  did  not  believe  it. 
Thomas  thought  it  was  an  illusion.  Thomas  thought  their  senses  had 
deceived  them.  Thomas  was  a  man  who  had  to  have,  it  seemed,  the 
tangible  evidence  of  the  senses,  and  he  said,  "I  shall  not  believe,  except 
I  see  with  my  eyes  and  feel  with  my  hands."  When  Jesus  appeared, 
he  said  to  Thomas,  "Reach  hither  thy  finger,  and  behold  my  hands; 
and  reach  hither  thy  hand,  and  thrust  it  into  my  side:  and  be  not 
faithless,  but  believing."  And  Thomas  came  and  did  so  and  dropped 
on  his  knees  and  said,  "My  Lord  and  my  God."  Then  Jesus  said, 
"Thomas  because  thou  hast  seen  me,  thou  hast  believed ;  blessed  are  they 


ELDER   NEWELL  K.   YO'UNG  55 

that  have  not  seen,  and  yet  have  believed."  He  does  not  say,  "more 
blessed,"  though  I  think  perhaps  they  are. 

I  am  grateful  with  all  my  heart  that  it  has  been  easy  and  natural 
for  me  to  believe,  but  I  do  not  want  to  be  unsympathetic  with  men  for 
whom  it  is  not  so  easy.  I  want  to  have  the  patience  that  Jesus  had 
and  the  willingness  to  give  them  all  the  evidence  there  may  be. 

After  that  he  appeared  to  seven  disciples,  five,  at  least,  of  whom 
were  apostles,  these  being  Peter,  James,  and  John,  and  Thomas  and 
Nathanael  of  Cana  in  Galilee,  at  the  Sea  of  Galilee,  and  ate  with  them. 
He  had  fish  roasting  on  a  fire  of  coals.  They  were  fishing.  That 
is  the  occasion  on  which  he  asked  Peter  three  times  if  he  loved  him, 
and  Peter  answered,  yes.  And  I  do  rejoice  in  the  last  time,  when 
he  almost  seemed  to  question  Peter's  answer,  that  Peter  could  look 
him — the  risen  Christ,  the  Son  of  God  in  the  face — and  say,  "You 
know  I  love  you."  Blessed  is  the  man  who  can  face  those  eyes  that 
can  see  the  secrets  of  the  heart  and  yet  say  he  loves  or  he  believes ! 
There  were  seven  there. 

He  visited  Peter  alone,  the  Apostle  Paul  tells  us.  No  one  knows 
what  took  place  in  that  meeting.  I  believe  we  are  warranted  in 
believing  that  no  meeting  after  his  resurrection,  peihaps,  was  more  vital. 

We  do  know  that  his  four  brothers  did  not  believe  in  him  during 
his  ministry,  but  he  visited  his  brother  James  after  the  resurrection. 
That  is  also  given  to  us  by  Paul.  And  James  believed  and  later 
presided  in  the  Church  at  Jerusalem,  the  Christian  Church,  Christ's 
Church,  after  his  brother  had  departed,  for  many,  many  years,  and 
is  believed  to  be  the  author  of  the  Epistle  of  James,  a  letter  of  advice 
and  inspiration  to  the  Hebrew  Christians  of  that  day.  Here  he  wrote 
that  piece  of  advice  that  sent  our  believing  boy  prophet  into  the  woods 
to  pray.  This  prayer  opened  the  heavens  for  the  Father  and  Son 
to  come. 

At  a  later  meeting  he  visited  five  hundred  men  in  a  mountain 
in  Galilee,  almost  all  of  whom  were  living  when  the  Apostle  Paul 
bore  his  testimony. 

Some  time  after,  he  visited  the  eleven  and  some  others,  on  the 
mountain,  called  Olivet,  when  he  ascended  in  glory ;  and  the  witnesses 
from  heaven  said  that  as  he  ascended,  in  like  manner  should  he  come 
again. 

At  a  later  time,  he  visited  Paul  and  called  him  to  the  ministry 
and  started  him  out  upon  that  great  mission  of  his. 

Then  we  must  record  the  visit  to  the  Nephites,  when  he  came 
day  after  day.     There  is  only  time  to  mention  this. 

And  then  his  visit  to  our  own  prophet,  in  our  time,  with  his 
gracious,  humbling,  chastening  ministry  to  us ;  for  I  do  not  know  how 
you  men  of  Israel  feel,  but  if  there  is  one  time  when  I  do  not  want 
to  speak  in  a  loud  voice,  if  there  is  one  time  when  I  am  chastened  and 
when   I   am  sobered,   and  when  I   am  humbled,   it  is  when  I  center 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

my  consciousness  on  the  fact  that  we  are  commissioned  through  the 
Priesthood  to  stand  before  him  and  for  him  in  the  midst  of  men.  That 
is  no  testimony  to  bear  lightly ;  that  is  no  testimony  to  shout  in  thought- 
lessness ;  it  is  a  testimony  full  of  awe,  full  of  responsibility,  and  a 
testimony  that  should  be  borne  in  great  reverence. 

There  is  not  time  to  say  the  word  or  two  I  meant  to  say  about 
the   significance  and   meaning   of   the   resurrection,   except   this,   that 
for  the  last  year  of  his  mortal  life,  or  nearly  that,  he  was  trying  to  get 
his  apostles  to  understand  that  his  mission  was  not  to  set  up  an  earthly 
kingdom.     He  was  not  to  be  a  Jewish   Caesar  and  set  up  the  Jews 
to  rule  the  world  as  Rome  had  ruled  it.     They  could  not  understand 
it.     We  have  evidence  and  plenty  of  it.     After  his  death,  Peter  said, 
"I  go  a  fishing."    And  the  others  said,  "We  also  go  with  you."    The  two 
on  the  way  to  Emmaus  revealed  it ;  "We  trusted  that  it  had  been  he 
which   should  have   redeemed   Israel."      When   he  was    arrested,  the 
brethren  went  to  safety.     He  said,  "Take  me  and  let  these  go,"  and 
they  went.     They  were  in  gloom ;   they  were  despondent ;   they  had 
hoped  it  was  the  Christ;  but  to  them  the  evidence  that  he  was  the 
Messiah  was  for  him  to  establish  a  kingdom,  with  the  Jews  as  kings. 
That  is  what  they  looked  for ;  that  is  what  their  fathers  had  looked 
for;  that  is  why  they  were  so  fearful,  so  despondent.     But  when  he 
rose,  when  he  came  back  to  the  Sea  of  Galilee,  where  Peter  had  gone 
to  his  nets — not  for  a  day's  vacation,  not  for  an  hour;  if  it  had  been 
that,  he  would  not  have  fished  all  night.     He  went  back  to  become 
a  "fisher  of  fish,  because  he  was  disappointed  and  thought,  with  his 
brethren  on  the   way  to   Emmaus,   that   he  was  not  what    they  had 
hoped  he  should  be.    When  he  arose,  when  he  visited  them,  it  was  far 
more  to  them  than  the  sign  that  one  shall  rise  from  the  dead.     They 
believed  in  the  resurrection.    It  was  far  more  to  them  than  to  know  that 
their   Master   lived ;    it   gave  them   the    testimony,   borne    witness   to, 
and  made  secure,  by  the  gift  and  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  he 
was   the   very    Christ,    the   Son   of   God.      That   was    the    great   sig- 
nificance of  it —  not  only  that  he  lived  but  that  he  was  what  he  had 
tried  to  get  them  to  understand  that  he  was;  and  borne  testimony  that 
he  was.     He  was  all  they  had  hoped  for,  and  a  thousand  times  more, 
because  he  was  Lord  of  life  and  King  of  kings,  the  Redeemer,  the 
Savior,   the   Son  of  God,  the  Revelator  of   the  Father. 

On  this  Easter  morning  I  am  glad  to  remember  these  things  with 
you ;  somehow  I  feel  that  every  Easter  morning,  early,  out  of  doors 
if  I  could,  just  as  the  sun  rose,  I  should  like  to  meet  with  a  band 
of  responsive  men  and  women  and  spend  an  hour  or  two  hours  in 
memory  of  his  rising.  For  that  is  what  it  means  to  us — not  only  that 
there  is  no  death ;  not  only  that  the  grave  lost  its  victory  and  death  has 
been  robbed  of  its  sting ;  but  also  that  he  was  and  is  the  Christ,  the  Son 
of  God,  the  Redeemer  and  the  Savior,  and  that  we  are  his  brethren, 
children  of  our  Father.  I  plead  that  in  our  wanting  to  know  our 
Father  we  may  approach  him  as   Father.     That  is  the  only  way  to 


■ELDER   NEWELL  K.   YOUNG  57 

know  him.  He  is  Father,  and  we  are  his  children.  I  bear  record  here, 
in  memory  of  my  faithful  mother,  my  father,  my  grandparents,  my 
people — I  bear  record  that  I  know  that  God  lives  and  is  our  Father, 
caring  for  us,  watching  over  us  ;  that  it  is  his  work  and  his  glory  to  bring 
to  pass  our  immortality  and  eternal  life,  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
and  we  are  commissioned  to  represent  him,  in  helping  in  that  work  and 
that  glory.  May  God  help  us  to  be  true,  I  ask,  and  I  leave  with  you  my 
love,  and  pray  our  Father's  love  and  blessing  upon  you,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

The  combined  choirs  sang,  "An  angel  from  on  high." 


ELDER  ELIAS  A.  SMITH 

Of  the  High  Council  of  Liberty  Stake 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  If  anyone  ever  needed  the  sustaining 
power  of  our  heavenly  Father,  I  do  at  the  present  moment.  I  have  had 
no  intimation  whatsoever  that  I  would  be  called  upon  to  stand  before 
you  this  morning  and  speak  to  you  a  few  moments  regarding  those 
things  which  are  dear  to  my  heart  and  to  your  hearts.  I  thank  my 
heavenly  Father  daily  that  I  was  born  of  parents  who,  in  the  early  days 
of  the  Church,  embraced  the  gospel  and  remained  faithful  and  true  to 
the  end  of  their  days.  Brother  Kimball  says  his  father  impressed 
upon  his  family  the  saying,  "Are  we  able  to  stand  the  test?"  Are  we 
able  to  endure  ?  I  think  that  is  the  vital  question  ^ith  all  of  us.  I  take 
it  for  granted  that  everyone  here  has  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this 
work.  We  absolutely  believe  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  in  answer 
to  his  prayer,  was  visited  by  the  Father  and  by  the  Son,  and  that  he 
^conversed  with  them  face  to  face ;  and  that  they  made  known  unto 
him  that  he  was  to  be  the  instrument  in  their  hands  in  the  re-establish- 
ment of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  here  upon  earth.  If  there  is  any  one 
of  us  who  doubts  that  fact,  he  cannot  in  any  manner  believe  in  what  is 
termed  "Mormonism."  That  is  the  foundation  stone  of  this  Church, 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith's  declaration  that  the  Father  and  the  Son 
did  appear  unto  him,  and  made  known  unto  him  just  what  they  ex- 
pected him  to  do  in  the  establishment  of  his  Church  here  upon  the  earth. 
Neither  you  nor  I  can  save  any  one  except  ourselves.  It  is  our  duty  while 
we  live  upon  earth  to  obtain  and  retain  a  testimony  of  the  divinity 
of  our  heavenly  Father,  and  unless  we  do  have  that  testimony,  we  are 
always  in  danger  of  slipping  and  falling  by  the  wayside.  The  gospel, 
as  I  understand  it,  is  a  gospel  that  we  must  live  day  by  day — not 
Sunday  nor  Monday,  but  every  day  of  the  week — seeking  and  striving 
to  the  best  of  our  abilities  to  store  up  knowledge  and  get  information 
and  better  our  lives,  and  to  assist  others  to  live  in  a  way  and  manner 
that  they  may  obtain  a  testimony  and  better  their  lives.  None  of  us  can 
be  independent  of  the  other;  each  one  of  us  is  dependent  upon  our 
brethren  and  sisters  to  live  in  a  way  and  manner  that  is  acceptable  to  our 


58'  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

heavenly  Father.  The  biggest  task  I  have  on  earth  is  to  live  in  a 
manner  that  is  satisfactory  to  me,  and  if  I  can  do  that,  I  know  that  I 
can  satisfy  my  brethren  and  my  sisters. 

As  Brother  Kimball  says,  I  am  a  member  of  the  Liberty  stake 
High  Council.  In  that  way  I  am  endeavoring  to  do  my  duty.  I  believe 
it  is  incumbent  upon  all  of  us  when  we  are  asked  to  do  a  thing  to  do 
it  to  the  best  of  our  ability,  whatever  that  task  may  be.  A  great  many 
of  us  say  that'  it  is  a  task ;  possibly  we  should  say,  like  Brother 
Robinson,  that  it  is  not  only  a  task  but  a  privilege  to  work  in  the 
Church  in  every  way  in  which  we  are  called.  In  doing  that  we  get  more 
out  of  it  than  any  one  else.  We  are  the  persons  benefited,  and  receive 
added  testimony  to  what  we  already  have ;  as  I  know  whenever  I 
am  called  upon  to  do  a  duty  and  do  it  to  the  best  of  my  ability,  I  am 
benefited ;  the  Lord  makes  known  to  me  his  approval,  if  I  have  done 
it  in  a  way  that  is  acceptable  to  him.  And  I  bear  you  my  testimony, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  if  we  will  perform  our  duties  as  members 
of  this  Church  day  by  day,  as  the  leaders  of  this  Church  expect  us  to 
do,  living  in  a  manner  that  those  with  whom  we  associate  may  say 
to  one  another,  he  is  endeavoring  to  live  his  religion ;  he  is  endeavoring 
to  be  an  honest,  virtuous,  truthful  man ;  that  we  will  get  joy  and 
satisfaction  out  of  our  labor.  I  pray  my  heavenly  Father  that  he  will 
bless  me,  that  I  may  be  able  to  live  in  that  way  and  manner ;  and  that 
he  will  bless  you,  and  that  each  and  every  one  of  us  may  obtain 
a  testimony  of  our  Savior ;  that  we  may  have,that  testimony  burning  in 
our  hearts ;  that  we  may  be  Latter-day  Saints  wherever  we  go,  uphold- 
ing and  sustaining  those  who  are  called  to  preside  over  us  and  endeavor- 
ing to  do,  to  the  best  of  our  ability,  what  the  Lord  would  have  us 
do.    May  this  be  our  lot,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus.     Amen. 

ELDER  J.   GOLDEN   KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

It  may  be  considered  unfortunate  that  some  of  our  brethren  who 
were  appointed  by  President  Grant  failed  to  learn  of  their  appointment 
and  have  not  put  in  an  appearance.  Only  three  of  us,  as  we  are  in- 
formed, have  arrived — President  Robinson,  President  Murdock,  and 
myself.  We  appreciate  the  fact  that  we  hold  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood, and  believe  that  whenever  we  are  appointed  by  those  having 
authority,  we  are  fully  qualified  to  perform  every  duty  and  responsi- 
bility to  which  we  have  been  appointed.  I  have  had  some  experience, 
along  with  my  brethren  in  the  Church,  and  while  I  may  not  have 
accomplished  everything  that  I  was  appointed  to  do  to  the  very  best 
advantage,  I  desire  to  say  to  you  that  I  have  never  been  appointed 
to  do  a  single  thing  in  this  Church  but  that,  when  I  got  the  spirit  of 
my  appointment,  I  was  qualified  and  fitted  to  assume  that  responsibility. 

When  I  was  an  elder  in  the  missionary  field  and  was  sent  out 
in  the  woods — for  that  is  about  where  we  went  in  the  years  1883-4 ;  we 


ELDER  J.    GOLDEN  KIMBALL  59 

did  not  go  in  cities,  they  were  not  a  safe  place  to  go ;  we  went  to  the 
woods,  among  the  poor  people,  and  preached  the  gospel,  and  we  were 
sent  forth  without  purse  and  without  scrip — all  it  cost  me  to  fill  a 
mission  was  to  get  to  my  field  of  labor.  I  paid  for  that  myself,  and  it 
was  up  to  me  to  get  back  home  as  best  I  could.  That  is  about  all  the 
money  I  had,  with  enough  to  buy  a  few  clothes,  and  I  remember  they 
were  rather  poor.  At  one  time  I  was  up  in  the  Blue  Ridge  mountains 
of  Virginia,  in  the  winter,  with  a  straw  hat  and  a  duster  on.  It  was 
not  very  suitable  ;  it  was  not  very  warm.  We  could  not  wear  overcoats ; 
could  not  carry  them  in  that  country.  All  we  carried  was  an  umbrella. 
We  never  were  at  a  loss  to  know  what  to  do,  my  companion  and  I,  when 
we  had  the  spirit  of  our  calling.  We  heard  that  voice — not  very  often, 
not  as  often  as  we  should  have  done,  but  we  heard  it — behind  us  saying, 
"This  is  the  way,  walk  ye  in  it,  when  ye  turn  to  the  right  and  when 
ye  turn  to  the  left."  I  stand  before  you  as  a  witness  for  God  that  he 
never  forsook  us.  I  walked — and  I  am  a  very  poor  walker;  I  am  not 
built  for  it — hundreds  and  hundreds  of  miles,  and  I  never  lay  out- 
doors but  twice,  though  I  want  to  confess  to  you  I  hustled.  There  is 
nothing  I  dreaded  worse  than  lying  outside  on  the  ground.  I  prayed, 
and  my  companion  prayed,  and  then  we  got  up  and  moved  on.  I  guess 
we  would  have  starved  to  death  if  we  had  kept  praying  and  had  not 
hustled ;  the  Lord  doesn't  help  people  who  do  not  hustle  and  move,  after 
they  pray,  and  do  their  duty. 

Brethren,  I  want  to  read  to  you.  I  do  not  read  very  often  except 
to  myself.  When  I  find  a  good  idea — which  is  not  very  often,  for 
very  few  of  us  do — I  write  it  down.  When  you  get  an  idea,  write  it 
down.  That  is  what  the  Prophet  Joseph  tried  to  teach  this  people. 
When  the  Lord  gives  you  a  sudden  idea,  write  it  down,  and  then  watch 
it ;  and  if  it  comes  from  God,  through  his  Spirit,  it  is  inspiration ;  and 
when  it  comes  true,  that  is  revelation.  Try  to  remember  that.  I  am  not 
going  to  read  anything  to  you  that  has  come  to  me,  but  I  am  going 
to  read  to  you  something  that  I  have  tried  to  make  work — though  I  am 
not  making  very  great  progress.  I  have  written  it  down  partly  because 
I  have  a  poor  memory,  like  my  father.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  told 
father,  when  he  tried  to  teach  him  grammar,  "Heber,  if  you  don't  repeat 
that,  I'll  whip  you."  Father  said,  "Well,  brother  Joseph,  you  will 
have  to  whip  me ;  I  can't  repeat  it."  Joseph  said,  "I  would  just  as 
leave  whip  a  child  as  you."  The  quotations  I  am  about  to  read  are 
such  that  I  might  repeat  them  a  million  times,  or  a  multimillion  times  and 
never  live  up  to  them,  and  I  am  afraid  some  of  us  Latter-day  Saints  read 
a  good  deal,  but  do  not  think  and  put  it  into  our  every  day  life: 

"He  that  seeketh  the  Lord  early  shall  find  him,  and  shall  not  be 
forsaken." 

No  wonder  we  are  trying  to  teach  our  children.  Some  of  us  did 
not  seek  the  Lord  until  we  became  old.  It  is  a  mighty  good  thing  to 
begin  early. 

"The  Lord  'is  my  shepherd."     Do  you  believe  that?     "The  Lord 


60       •  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

is  my  shepherd;  I  shall  not  want."  Then  why  worry  your  head  off  for 
fear  you  will  go  to  the  poor  house?  But  that  is  where  some  of  you 
will  go  if  you  don't  wake  up.  Because  the  Lord  "tempers  the  wind 
to  the  shorn  lamb."  Haven't  I  just  testified  of  that?  In  all  my  wander- 
ings in  the  south,  God  led  me  to  the  doors  of  the  honest  in  heart,  and 
they  fed  me  and  gave  me  a  place  to  lay  my  head.  And  that  is  what 
I  am  telling  our  elders,  these  young  boys  going  on  missions.  I  am 
trying,  when  I  set  them  apart,  to  impress  them  that  the  Lord  is  their 
shepherd  and  they  shall  not  want.  One  good  mother  stated  that  her 
son  wrote  her  and  said,  "I  have  only  $3,  and  if  you  do  not  send  me 
some  money  I  will  be  licking  the  paste  off  the  signboards."  And  the 
mother  came  to  me  somewhat  disturbed  and  said :  "Brother  Kimball, 
what  shall  I  do?"  I  said,  "Let  him  lick  paste  for  a  while;  he  will 
find  the  Lord,  but  he  never  will  with  his  pocket  full  of  money."  I 
have  repeatedly  told  the  "Mormon"  elders  that  they  never  found  God 
yet  with  their  pockets  full  of  money.  I  do  not  say  that  you  do  not  have 
to  have  the  money,  but  you  do  not  worry  much  when  you  know  where 
you  are  going  to  sleep  and  where  you  are  going  to  eat.  I  know  mighty 
well  that  I  would  not  worry  the  Lord  if  I  had  a  $5  dollar  bill  in 
my  pocket ;  I  would  go  and  get  something  to  eat  and  have  the  agony 
over.  I  do  not  think  the  Lord  respects  a  "Mormon"  elder  who  will 
howl  and  whine  around  where  he  has  money  in  his  pocket  and  is  hungry 
If  he  does,  he  ought  to  starve;  that  is  my  doctrine. 

"Come  unto  me,  all  ye  that  labor  and  are  heavy  laden."  God 
knows  that  we  have  thousands  in  this  Church  who  have  labored  and  are 
weary.  And  there  are  thousands  of  people  in  this  Church,  mothers  and 
old  men,  the  best  people  God  ever  created,  who  never  had  a  banquet  or 
a  chicken  -dinner  in  their  lives  unless  they  cooked  it  themselves.  No 
wonder  they  get  weary — they  are  made  to  feel  they  are  no  longer 
wanted.  "Come  unto  me,  all  ye  that  labor  and  are  heavy  laden,  and  I 
will  give  you  rest."     And  that  is  the  only  place  you  can  get  real  rest. 

"Cast  your  care  upon  him,  for  he  careth  for  you."  Can  you  be- 
lieve that?  That  is  what  I  am  trying  to  believe — but  I  want  to  tell 
you  I  am  having  a  hard  time  to  believe  what  I  read,  and  put  it  into 
practice.  As  I  tell  our  missionaries,  do  not  let  doubt  and  fear  creep 
into  your  hearts,  for  God  never  planted  in  one  of  his  children  a  spirit  of 
fear ;  it  does  not  come  from  God ;  for  when  you  have  faith  in  God,  yon 
have  no  fear,  you  have  no  doubt ;  you  know.  But  you  will  have  trials 
and  be  tested ;  "you  will  eat  the  bread  of  adversity  and  drink  the  water 
of  affliction."  That  is  the  only  thing  that  will  keep  you  humble.  You 
have  to  knock  some  "Mormons"  down  every  little  while  to  keep  them 
in  the  Church.  It  is  too  bad,  but  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  cannot  be 
prospered  without  some  of  us  getting  arrogant  and  proud  and  forget- 
ting God. 

"I  will  strengthen  thee,"  (I  have  quoted  that  over  a  thousand  times) 
"yea,  I  will  help  thee,  yea,  I  will  uphold  thee  with  the  right  hand  of 
righteousness."  Do  you  believe  that? 


ELDER   J.   GOLDEN  KIMBALL  61 

"Take  therefore  no  thought  for  the  morrow :  for  the  morrow  shall 
take  thought  for  the  things  of  itself.  Sufficient  unto  the  day  is  the  evil 
thereof."  I  have  heard  hundreds  and  hundreds  of  elders  say,  that 
applied  to  the  twelve  apostles  in  the  days  of  Jesus  Christ  and  did  not 
apply  to  a  "Mormon"  elder,  out  preaching  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ ! 
Think  not  of  the  morrow!  I  remember  a  story  of  two  elders  wander- 
ing in  the  South  without  purse  or  scrip,  and  they  came  to  a  corn  crib, 
and  one  of  the  elders  said,  "We  will  sleep  there  tonight,"  and  he 
called  that  faith !  It  was,  but  it  was  a  poor  faith.  Those  boys 
wandered  around  and  around  and  got  lost,  and  traveled  in  a  circle ; 
and  when  darkness  set  in  there  was  the  corn  crib,  and  the  elder  said, 
"There,  I  told  you  we  would  sleep  in  the  corn  crib."  The  Lord  fulfilled 
his  word,  and  it  served  him  right.  It  is  where  he  expected  to  sleep. 
"As  your  faith  is,  so  shall  it  be  unto  you." 

"As  thy  faith  is" — I  have  it  here,  by  the  way — "so  shall  it  be 
unto  you." 

"I  will  fear  no  evil,  for  thou  art  with  me."  "There  shall  no  evil 
happen  to  the  just."  You  have  read  those  things  a  thousand  times,  and 
so  have  I ;  and  then  we  never  think  of  them.  We  are  a  good  deal  like 
Coue.  Have  you  ever  read  Coue's  book  ?  When  I  was  sick,  I  read  it 
from  lid  to  lid,  and  I  went  trotting  around,  saying :  "Every  day,  in 
every  way,  I  am  getting  better  and  better."  Every  morning  when  I 
got  up  I  was  worse  and  worse.  What  good  did  it  do  me?  I  did  not 
believe  it.  But  thousands  of  people,  according  to  the  story,  have  gotten 
over  physical  ailments — they  call  it  mental — by  repeating,  "Every  day 
and  in  every  way,  I  am  getting  better  and  better."  It  did  not  do  me 
a  bit  of  good,  because  I  did  not  make  it  work.  And  they  say  it  only 
cures  mental  trouble.  My  experience  is,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
a  large  per  cent  of  our  troubles  are  imaginary  and  not  real.  We  get 
an  imaginary  trouble,  and  we  cling  to  it  like  death,  and  won't  let  loose. 
So  it  is  with  scripture;  of  what  use  is  it  to  continue  to  repeat  these 
things  if  you  do  not  believe  them? 

Here  is  another.  "The  God  that  I  worship  says  unto  me,  T  am 
with  you  always — '  "  I  can  find  that  in  my  blessing  given  to  me 
by  Elder  Moses  Thatcher.  "Ask  and  it  shall  be  given  you,  seek  and  ye 
shall  find,  knock  and  it  shall  be  opened  unto  you." 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  when  but  a  boy,  read  this :  "If  any 
man  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men  liberally, 
and  upbraideth  not ;  and  it  shall  be  given  him.  But  let  him  ask  in  faith, 
nothing  wavering."  Surely  God  reads  our  hearts;  you  cannot  deceive 
God.  You  can  deceive  a  bishop,  sometimes,  not  all  the  time;  you 
can  deceive  a  president  of  a  stake,  not  all  the  time;  you  may  deceive 
the  apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  not  all  the  time ;  but  you  cannot 
deceive  God  any  of  the  time.  And  don't  ever  try  it.  His  ways  are  not  as 
man's  ways ;  he  is  greater  than  sects  or  creeds  or  isms  or  fancies  or  the 
notions  and  caprices  of  men. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  time  is  up.  I  have  only  gotten  started. 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Why  don't  you  read  these  things  and  write  them  down,  like  our  fathers 
and  mothers  did  of  old,  and  think  about  them,  and  make  them  work? 
And  when  you  are  sick,  have  faith  and  be  healed.  Christ  never 
diagnosed  a  case  in  his  life;  Christ  never  asked  a  woman  what  was  the 
matter;  he  never  asked  her  what  kind  of  a  disease  she  had.  I  know 
as  I  know  I  live  and  breathe,  although  I  may  never  feel  its  power, 
that  when  sick,  authority  has  been  vested  in  me,  as  I  have  seen  people 
healed,  not  many,  it  is  true,  but  some  were  healed  as  soon  as  I  took 
my  hands  off  their  heads.  Yet  doctors  have  said  that  those  diseases 
were  incurable,  but  they  have  been  healed  nevertheless.  They  tell  me 
that  epileptic  fits  are  incurable.  I  cannot  cite  you  to  many  cases,  but 
I  can  point  you  out  a  poor  widow,  who  lived  in  the  sagebrush,  in  Idaho, 
that  came  to  me  after  a  conference.  The  bishop  of  the  ward,  and  I 
administered  to  that  good  old  woman,  and  she  never  had  a  fit  after. 
I  can  cite  you  to  a  poor  old  widow  in  the  north  country  who  had  a 
cancer.  She  had  fasted  for  three  days,  and  came  to  the  same  con- 
ference, and  something  said  to  her,  "That  is  the  man."  I  do  not  think 
I  amount  to  much,  but  we  administered  to  that  poor  old  widow,  and 
God  healed  her.  I  have  had  splendid  success  with  widows ;  especially, 
when  they  were  in  poverty !  But  I  have  never  had  any  success  with 
rich  people.  I  do  not  know  why.  May  be  it  is  because  they  have 
little  faith. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you.  Think  of  God.  How  many  of  us  think 
of  God  thirty  minutes  out  of  twenty- four  hours?  There  is  not  one  out 
of  five  hundred  that  actually  thinks  of  God  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ 
thirty  minutes  a  day.  I  do ;  but  the  first  thing  I  know,  my  mind 
wanders  off  on  something  else.  My  brethren  and  sisters,  God  bless  you 
and  be  with  us  and  help  this  people,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.     Amen. 

The  choirs  sang  the  anthem,  "O  grave,  where  is  thy  victory?" 
The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  John  W.  Walker,  of  the 

High  Council  of  the  Ensign  stake ;   and  the  meeting  was  adjourned 

until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

SECOND  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

A  second  overflow  meeting  of  the  conference  was  held  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  Sunday,  April  4,  1926. 

Elder  Rulon  S.  Wells,  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  presided. 

Singing  was  furnished  by  the  coihbined  choirs  of  Murray  First 
ward  and  Mill  Creek  ward,  of  Cottonwood  stake;  W.  F.  Robinson, 
director ;  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

The  combined  choirs  sang  "Author  of  faith." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  William  J.  Robinson. 

The  choir  sang  "Grant  us  peace,  O  Lord,"  Ada  McDonald  and 
Manasseh  Smith  singing  the  duet  parts. 


ELDER  JOHN   V.  BLUTH  63 

ELDER  JOHN  V.  BLUTH 

President  of  the  North  Weber  Stake 

In  attending  conference  this  morning,  in  the  Tabernacle, 
viewing  the  large  congregation  gathered  there,  and  knowing  that 
they  came  from  almost  every  nation  under  the  sun,  I  could  but 
reflect  upon  the  words  of  our  Savior  in  the  promise  given  early  in 
the  history  of  the  Church  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  wherein  he  said, 
"Behold  a  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  among  the  chil- 
dren of  men."  I  could  but  feel  what  a  wondrous  thing  it  was  'to  see 
that  Tabernacle  filled  with  people  from  almost  all  nations  of  the 
earth  and  to  know  that  they  had  heard  the  call  of  the  Master;  that 
they  were  of  the  honest  in  heart  who  had  listened  unto  that  call, 
who  had  forsaken  that  which  was  near  and  dear  unto  them  in 
other  lands — kindred,  friends,  wealth  in  many  cases — and  sacrificed 
for  that  which  they  believed  to  be  true,  and  in  various  ways  gathered 
unto  the  land  of  Zion,  where  they  have  reared  their  families  under 
hardship,  toil  and  struggle  and  sacrifice,  and  are  watching  the  work 
of  the  Lord  grow  and  prosper.  I,  myself,  was  born  in  far-off 
Stockholm,  Sweden ;  taught  a  foreign  tongue ;  trained  then  in  what 
is  now  to  me  a  foreign  religion;  trained  in.  other  customs  than 
we  have  here.  And  the  Lord,  in  fulfilment  of  the  promise  that  he 
would  bring  about  a  marvelous  work,  called  upon  those  who  had 
already  accepted  the  gospel  to  visit  those  lands;  preach  the  gos- 
pel there,  and  bring  the  message  of  joy  and  gladness  unto  other 
hearts ;  and  it  fell  to  our  lot  to  meet  with  those  missionaries ;  to 
hear  their  story  and  testimony,  and  have  our  own  hearts  touched 
with  that  testimony;  recognize  its  truth  and  have  courage  and 
faith  enough  to  accept  it  and  to  come  to  these  lands,  unto  these 
valleys.  It  is  52  years  ago  last  month  since  I  had  the  privilege  of 
being  initiated  into  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God  by  baptism. 
In  the  experiences  that  have  come  to  me  since,  the  privilege  of  re- 
ceiving the  Priesthood,  of  using  that  Priesthood  in  various  ca- 
pacities, I  have  gained  an  understanding  to  some  extent  of  what  the 
Lord  meant  when  he  said  that  he  would  bring  about  a  marvelous 
work  in  the  earth.  To  think  that  this  body  of  people  we  saw  this 
morning,  and  that  are  there  now  gathered;  those  who  are  here; 
those  who  are  out  in  the  grounds  listening;  to  think  that  they  have 
a  knowledge  and  a  testimony  for  themselves  that  this  is  the 
work  of  the  Lord — with  no  doubt  whatever — a  testimony  from  God 
that  this  work  is  divine;  that  all  our  ideas  of  the  future  can  be 
resolved  into  the  mere  admonition,  "live  the  laws  of  God  that  he 
has  given  unto  you  and  all  those  mysteries  will  be  solved.''  Give 
it  time;  serve  the  Lord,  and  we  will  know  all  that  we  desire  to 
know;  we  will  reach  to  all  that  our  aspirations  have  sought  for, 
and  we  will  have  eternal  life  in  the  Kingdom  of  God. 

To  me  the  having  within  our  hearts  of  that  testimony  that 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

God  lives;  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  his  Son,  our  Redeemer;  to 
know  that  we  are  his  children;  to  be  acquainted  with  our  re- 
lationship with  him,  the  purpose  of  our  being  here,  where  we  came 
from,  where  we  are  going,  and  what  lies  before  us  in  the  way 
of  possibility  for  advancement,  growth,  and  eternal  progress — 
to  have  a  testimony  of  that  kind — is  the  most  glorious  gift  that 
our  Father  could  give  unto  us;  and  once  received,  brethren  and 
sisters,  we  ought  to  guard  that  testimony  as  the  most  sacred  gift 
in  his  power  to  give  unto  us. 

Can  we  lose  that  testimony?  Yes.  We  may  have  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  bearing  testimony  to  our  souls  that  this  is  the  truth ; 
but  if  we  will  not  live  the  laws  by  which  that  testimony  can  be 
retained,  it  will  fade  and  grow  weaker.  We  have  experiences  be- 
fore us  of  those  who  have  stood  up  and  borne  testimony  to  the 
goodness  of  God,  to  the  divinity  of  this  work,  having  a  knowl- 
edge of  it  for  themselves  and  how  they  received  it,  and  who  have 
gradually  drifted  away  until  it  is  only  a  mere  memory  that  they 
did  such  a  thing;  the  knowledge  has  passed  away.  And  why? 
Because  they  have  not  treasured  it.  They  have  not  kept  it  bright 
and  fresh  in  their  minds.  'They  have  not  served  the  Lord.  They 
have  not  given  of  their  talents  that  God  has  given  unto  them ;  of 
their  time  and  of  their  means  and  their  thought  and  their  strength. 
They  have  not  given  of  it  enough  to  retain  a  continuation  of  that 
testimony.  In  this  very  revelation,  where  the  Lord  said  that  he 
was  to  bring  forth  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder,  he  added  this: 
"Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God,  see  that  ye 
serve  him  with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind,  and  strength  that  ye 
may  stand  blameless  before  God  at  the  last  day.  Therefore,  if  ye 
have  desires  to  serve  God,  ye  are  called  to  the  work;  for  behold 
the  field  is  white  already  to  harvest;  and  lo,  he  that  thrusteth  in 
his  sickle  with  his  might,  the  same  layeth  up  in  store  that  he  perish- 
eth  not,  but  bringeth  salvation  to  his  soul ;  and  faith,  hope, 
charity  and  love,  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God,  qualify  him 
for  the  work.  Remember  faith,"  virtue,  knowledge,  temperance, 
patience,  brotherly  kindness,  godliness,  charity,  humility,  diligence. 
Ask,  and  ye  shall  receive;  knock,  and  it  shall  be  opened  unto  you. 
Amen." 

Those  are  the  promises  of  our  Father.  To  me  the  very  thought 
of  losing  this  wonderful  individual  testimony  that  God  has  given 
me — I  dare  not  think  of  it !  To  have  doubt  come  into  my  soul, 
where  there  is  no  assurance  and  knowledge  and  certainty,  would 
unsettle  all  that  I  have  so  far  been  able  to  do  in  my  life ;  and  it 
would  be  the  same  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  you  per- 
mitted that  to  be  done.  Many  of  us  neglect  the  opportunities  of- 
fered unto  us.  We  do  not  develop  them.  We  receive  the  Priest- 
hood and  we  do  not  magnify  it;  we  do  not  honor  and  revere  it  and 
recognize  that  it  is  the  power  from  God  to  act  in  his  stead,  that  he 


ELDER  JOHN   V.  BLUTH  65 

has  selected  those  to  whom  he  has  given  the  Priesthood  to  be  his 
helpers  in  accomplishing  the  great  work  that  he  has  before  him. 
He  says,  "My  work  and  my  glory  is  to  bring  to  pass  the  im- 
mortality and  eternal  life  of  man,"  and  he  calls  upon  his  children 
who  have  heard  his  voice,  who  have  accepted  it  and  yielded 
obedience  to  his  commandments ;  he  endows  them  with  the  Priest- 
hood and  power  to  be  helpers  and  assistants  unto  him  to  accom- 
plish that — he  tells  us  that  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  his  mind 
and  he  sends  us  out  to  seek  for  those  souls;  "for  the  field,"  as  he 
says,  "is  already  white  to  harvest,  and  he  that  thrusteth  in  his 
sickle  with  his  might  shall  have  store  which  perisheth  not."  In 
other  words,  he  shall  have  the  souls  of  men  who  have  heard  his 
message ;  who  have  had  faith  brought  into  their  lives ;  who  have 
yielded  obedience  to  the  commandments  of  God,  and  have  accepted 
the  truth  and  striven  to  shape  their  lives  in  harmony  with  the 
teachings  of  the  gospel ;  and  in  so  doing  he  has  added  unto  himself 
a  store  that  cannot  perish  but  will  live  eternally,  a  blessing,  benefit, 
joy  and  consolation  unto  himself.  Our  Father  says  that  if  you 
should  labor,  as  it  were,  all  the  days  of  your  lives,  and  bring  but 
one  soul  unto  him,  how  great  shall  be  your  joy  with  that  soul  in 
the  kingdom  of  our  Father.  And  if  ye  bring  many  souls  unto  him, 
behold  how  great  shall  be  your  joy.  That  is  why  the  Priesthood  is 
given  unto  us.  What  will  our  Father  think  if  we  do  not  use  that 
Priesthood,  when  we  neglect  to  use  it;  or  if  we  do  use  it,  if  we  do 
it  for  our  own  aggrandizement,  the  advancement  of  our  own  pur- 
poses, our  own  personal  gain?  When  we  do  that,  we  dishonor 
it,  and  instead  of  being  helpers  in  his  cause  and  laying  up  a  store 
that  shall  not  perish,  we  forfeit  our  rights  and  our  privileges; 
we  are  not  helpful,  we  do  not  obey  that  second  commandment  of 
which  President  Grant  spoke  this  morning,  "Love  thy  neighbor  as 
thyself."  We  are  not  worrying,  many  times,  about  our  neighbor; 
whether  he  is  prospering,  advancing,  walking  the  path  of  right- 
eousness, or  not;  we  are  caring  only  for  ourselves.  Now,  in  the 
midst  of  that  kind  of  a  feeling,  it  is  not  conducive  to  a  perpetuation 
of  the  individual  testimony  that  God  has  given  us.  It  begins  to 
fade  and  weaken  and  finally  it  disappears  from  us. 

I  would  say  unto  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  a  message 
that  I  would  like  to  give  to  all  with  whom  I  come  in  contact :  Guard 
and  treasure  that  individual  testimony  of  the  knowledge  of  the 
goodness  of  God.  Why,  think  what  it  means !  You  are  not  afraid 
in  your  explorations;  you  can  study  any  of  the  mysteries,  branch 
out,  seek  to  gain  knowledge,  investigate  the  things  in  science, 
go  as  far  as  you  can;  and  yet  there  is  no  doubt  in  your  mind. 
Whether  you  are  able  to  solve  the  things  that  come  before  you ; 
whether  you  are  able  to  explain  them,  means  nothing;  but  you 
have  a  testimony  that  this  is  the  truth,  and  for  that  reason  nothing 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

on  the  outside  can  take  it  away  from  you.  Only  that  which  is 
within  ourselves  can  rob  us  of  that  testimony. 

I  have  heard  of  brethren  and  quorums  who  are  studying  certain 
things,  coming  across  certain  passages,  and  having  their  faith 
weakened  by  the  fact  that  they  cannot  harmonize  certain  things 
that  they  have  read  therein,  certain  things  that  they  have  heard. 
Many  of  them  are  carried  away  by  alleged  scientific  principles, 
that  make  them  feel,  that  that  which  they  discover  in  researches 
concerning  this  earth  does  not  warrant  the  beliefs  that  they  have 
held,  and  yet  I  have  heard  some  of  those  bear  testimony  to  the 
truth  of  the  gospel.  To  my  mind  it  seems  almost  impossible  that 
such  a  thing  could  occur.  If  I  know  a  thing,  I  know  it.  How 
can  any  one  take  that  away  from  me?  I  might  as  well  stand  on 
the  rock,  dive  into  the  ocean,  get  out  beyond  my  depth,  and  then 
begin  to  doubt  that  I  ever  did  stand  on  land,  when  I  have 
an  absolute  knowledge  in  me  that  only  a  few  moments  before  1 
dived  from  that  rock  into  the  water.  If  I  am  wise  and  have  the 
strength,  I  swim  back  to  the  place  from  which  I  dived,  and  I  am 
again  on  terra  firma,  on  land.  So  it  is  in  all  our  explorations,  if  we 
cannot  understand  them,  all  we  need  to  do  is  swim  back  to  that 
rock,  our  own  individual  testimony  that  God  has  given  unto  us  and 
that  we  know  is  true.  Having  gotten  back  there  secure  again, 
we  can  start  out,  and  we  are  strong  on  other  explorations  and 
thereby  gather  a  little  knowledge  here  and  there,  better  knowledge, 
better  understanding  and  interpretation  of  the  things  we  read 
and  discuss,  and  therefore  strengthen  our  testimony  instead  of 
losing   it. 

Whatever  you  do,  do  not  permit  anything  in  your  lives,  either 
of  sin  or  transgression,  of  error,  of  misinterpretation,  idleness, 
indolence,  of  failure  to  accept  opportunity,  failure  to  respond  to  a 
call — do  not  let  any  of  these  causes  step  in  and  begin  to  weaken 
that  testimony,  but  treasure  it  with  the  beauty  of  the  knowledge 
that  you  know  where  you  are  going.  There  is  no  uncertainty.  You 
know  what  is  required  of  you,  and  all  you  need  do  is  to  live  unto 
it,  and  your  lives  will  be  shaped  in  harmony  with  God's  wishes, 
and  eternal  life  and  joy  and  glory  and  everlasting  exaltation  shall 
be  yours. 

May  God  bless  us,  that  in  our  hearts  we  may  have  a  desire 
for  righteousness,  live  that  which  is  noble  and  true  and  uplifting, 
and  shun  the  things  that  are  degrading  and  degenerating  in  char- 
acter; live  the  law  of  the  gospel,  the  law  of  the  land,  the  law  of 
our  own  being,  and  serve  God  with  full  purpose  of  heart.  And 
remember,  his  glory  and  his  advancement  is  our  glory  and  ad- 
vancement, and  if  we  can  go  on  with  an  eye  single  to  his  glory 
rather  than  to  our  own  personal  gains,  joy  and  happiness  will  be 
ours  everlastingly.  May  we  be  able  to  see  this,  get  this  portion 
of  the  philosophy  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus   Christ  into  our  hearts, 


ELDER  JOHN   V.  BLUTH  67 

and  shape  our  lives  in  accordance  with  it!  Then  we  will  find  that 
we  are  sloughing  off  a  little  vice  here,  a  little  evil  habit  there,  a 
wrong  thought;  and  we  are  replacing  them  with  proper  thoughts, 
habits,  and  ideas  in  harmony  with  the  gospel,  and  with  God ;  and  we 
become  naturally  new  men  and  new  women,  capable  of  carrying  on 
God's  work  and  serving  him  and  being  indeed  his  helpers  in  the 
accomplishment  of  his  wonderful  work.  May  it  be  our  lot  that  we 
may  retain  these  testimonies,  in  our  hearts,  live  righteously  all 
the  days  of  our  lives,  and  receive  eternal  life  in  God's  celestial 
kingdom,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

ELDER  WILLIAM  H.  RICHARDS 

President  of  the  Malad  Stake 

We  are  told  that  "prayer  is  the  soul's  sincere  desire,  uttered 
or  unexpressed ;  the  motion  of  a  hidden  fire  that  trembles  in  the 
breast."  If  ever  I  experienced  that  in  my  life,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  I  experience  it  at  this  moment,  for  it  is  the  earnest  desire  of 
my  heart  today  that  our  Father  in  heaven  will  bless  me,  that  I  may 
be  able  at  least  to  bear  my  testimony  to  the  divinity  of  this  great 
work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  I  have  enjoyed  the  remarks  in 
this  conference  very  much.  I  have  enjoyed  the  remarks  of  the 
former  speaker  here  this  afternoon,  in  which  he  quoted  the  revela- 
tion which  says,  "Behold  a  great  and  marvelous  work  is  about 
to  come  forth  among  the  children  of  men."  I  have  read  that,  time 
and  time  again,  and  I  have  wondered  how  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  at  the  time  he  received  that  revelation  and  gave  it  out  to 
the  people,  could  have  realized  that  a  great  and  marvelous  work 
was  about  to  come  forth,  unless  he  was  inspired  by  the  influence  of 
the  Spirit  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  I  feel  with  all  my  heart, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  in- 
spired to  bring  forth  this  great  work.  I  believe  that  when  our 
Father  in  heaven  and  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  appeared  unto  him, 
that  they  showed  him  the  beauties  and  the  marvelous  work  that 
was  about  to  come  forth  through  his  instrumentality.  There  never 
has  been  a  doubt  in  my  mind  with  regard  to  his  calling. 

I  have  always  believed  and  have  always  pictured  it  in 
my  mind  as  being  fact,  whenever  I  have  read  the  account  of  the 
visitation  of  our  Father  in  heaven  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  There  never  has  been  a  doubt  in  my  mind 
with  regard  to  that  matter  and  the  divinity  of  this  work. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  received  a  testimony  in  my  young 
days  that  has  never  left  me;  and  while  I  have  been  thrown  into 
the  company  of  men  who  have  ridiculed  the  gospel,  that  ridicule 
has  never  had  any  effect  upon  my  mind,  because  our  Father  in 
heaven  gave  me  a  testimony  with  regard  to  the  divinity  of  this 
work.     I  was  almost  constantly  with  my  father,  a  man  who  ac- 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

cepted  the  gospel  in  his  native  land  of  Wales.  He  left  all  that  was 
near  and  dear  to  him,  and  came  out  to  this  country  all  alone,  not  a 
relative  of  any  kind  with  him ;  came  out  here  for  the  gospel's 
sake;  and  the  testimonies  that  he  bore  to  me  on  many  and  many 
occasions  sank  deep  into  my  heart,  and  I  believed  with  all  my 
heart  that  he  was  telling  me  the  truth,  because  I  knew  he  was  a 
truthful  man.  I  knew  that  what  he  said  was  true,  and  he  would 
relate  the  experiences  that  they  had  in  the  old  world  in  the  young 
days  of  the  gospel,  when  people  were  possessed  of  evil  spirits; 
and  all  of  those  things  always  had  an  interest  for  me;  and  while  I 
was  but  sixteen  years  of  age  when  he  died,  and  was  the  only  one  of 
his  family  who  happened  to  be  present  with  him  on  that  occasion — 
at  the  time  of  his  death — out  of  nine  of  us  in  the  family,  I  do 
not  believe  I  shall  ever  forget,  worlds  without  end,  when  a  few 
minutes  before  his  death  he  called  me  to  his  side.  I  knelt  down 
by  him,  and  he  bore  his  testimony  to  the  divinity  of  this  great 
work.  It  had  an  impression  upon  me  that  has  never  left  me  and 
never  will,  worlds  without  end.  I  loved  my  father  and  knew  he  was 
a  truthful  man,  and  could  not  doubt  the  testimony  which  he  bore 
to  me  upon  his  deathbed.  He  also  gave  me  the  charge  that  I  should 
take  that  testimony  back  to  my  brothers  and  sisters.  I  have  tried, 
in  my  weak  way,  to  impress  upon  them  the  testimony  as  it  was  im- 
pressed upon  me.  I  hope  the  day-  will  never  come  that  I  forget 
his  last  testimony. 

Since  that  time  I  have  had  some  experience  in  this  Church, 
and  the  Lord  has  been  good  to  me  and  has  blessed  me  with  an 
individual  testimony,  that  I  can  bear  without  fear  of  any  one  that 
I  ever  met  in  my  life — and,  as  I  stated,  I  have  been  thrown, 
upon  many  occasions,  into  rough  company.  I  used  to  freight  to 
Montana  in  early  days  and  was  thrown  many  a  time  into  company 
that  had  no  use  for  "Mormonism''  in  any  way  in  the  world;  but  I 
never  met  a  man  in  my  life  that  I  could  not  look  in  the  eye  and 
say  that  I  knew  the  gospel  is  true,  whether  he  knew  it  or  not. 
The  Lord  has  blessed  me  to  that  extent  that  I  have  never  feared, 
wherever  I  was,  in  bearing  that  testimony  to  the  children  of  men, 
and  I  hope  such  a  day  will  never  come,  because  I  know  that 
there  is  nothing  in  connection  with  the  gospel  that  we  need  to 
be  ashamed  of  or  for  which  we  need  to  hang  our  heads  in  talk- 
ing to  anybody  regarding  it.  Our  town,  Malad,  has  been  a  very 
much  mixed  town.  Quite  a  large  number  of  outsiders  live  with  us. 
I  have  had  to  labor  with  them,  have  mixed  with  them  upon  many, 
many  an  occasion,  but  there  has  never  been  a  time  but  I  was  willing 
to  bear  my  testimony  to  them,  and  I  believe  that  they  respected 
me  for  it.  I  do  not  know  of  any  of  our  Latter-day  Saints  who 
had  more  respect  for  me  than  the  outsiders  with  whom  I  have 
labored  in  different  ways,  and  this  was  exhibited  when  I  was 
called  to  the  position,  that  I  occupy  at  the  present  time,  of  pres- 


ELDER  WILLIAM  II.  RICHARDS  69 

ident  of  the  stake.  Almost  without  an  exception,  those  men  called 
me  by  phone  and  said,  "We  knew  who  were  going  to  be  the 
president."  Well,  I  had  not  thought  of  it  myself,  and  as  I  told 
the  brethren  when  they  came  up  there,  that  they  might  just  as 
well  have  taken  a  shotgun,  taken  me  out  in  the  field,  and  taken  a 
shot  at  me ;  they  would  not  have  come  any  nearer  to  killing  me. 
I  love  the  work  of  the  Lord,  but  for  some  cause  or  other  it  is  a  hard 
matter  for  me  to  preach  the  gospel.  It  is  not,  however,  because  of 
the  fear  of  man  or  anything  of  that  kind ;  it  is  a  weakness  of  some 
kind  that  is  within  me.  Some  of  the  Reorganized  people  up  our 
way  make  considerable  capital  out  of  President  Young's  having 
said  on  one  occasion  that  he  was  "not  a  prophet  nor  the  son  of 
a  prophet."  I  can  truthfully  say  that  I  am  not  a  preacher  nor  the 
son  of  a  preacher.  My  father  was  a  very  weak  man  when  it  came 
to  preaching  the  gospel  standing  on  his  feet;  but  when  the  op- 
portunity came  to  him  in  social  conversation  around  the  fireside 
or  anything  of  that  kind,  he  was  always  ready  an.d  was  able  to 
defend  the  gospel,  and  always  did  it  very  creditably. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  may 
give  heed  to  all  that  may  be  said  to  us  during  this  conference ; 
that  we  may  not  be  in  the  position  that  President  Grant  spoke  of 
yesterday  when  he  said  that  in  nearly  all  the  congregations  that  he 
attends,  they  sing,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet" — with 
the  postscript,  "provided  he  does  not  advise  us  to  do  things  that  do 
not  suit  us."  I  hope  that  whenever  we  receive  any  advice  from 
those  of  our  brethren  who  are  called  to  those  important  positions, 
that  we  will  be  ready  and  willing  to  accept  it,  although  it  may  pos- 
sibly not  be  according  to  our  way  of  thinking  at  the  time.  We  have 
to  wait  only  a  short  time  until  the  thing  will  be  demonstrated  to 
our  perfect  satisfaction  that  those  called  to  such  positions  are  called 
of  God  and  have  the  inspiration  of  God,  our  heavenly  Father,  to 
advise  us  along  that  line. 

I  remember  on  many  occasions  hearing  my  father  discuss  the 
question  of  the  personality  of  God  to  people  who  did  not  believe 
in  a  personal  God.  I  remember  the  objection  that  they  brought 
up.  They  would  say  that  it  would  be  impossible  for  a  man  put 
in  the  position  that  we  believe  God  is,  if  he  were  a  personal 
being,  to  know  what  is  going  on  throughout  his  creations.  My 
father  used  to  say,  "I  feel  that  he  has  an  organization  or  some 
way  whereby  he  knows  what  is  going  on  through  all  his  creations." 
We  have  had  to  wait  only  a  few  years,  brethren  and  sisters,  be- 
fore man  has  demonstrated  that  it  is  possible  for  us  to  hear  people 
all  around  the  earth,  without  any  wires.  The  radio  has  demon- 
strated it  and  has  demonstrated  to  my  perfect  satisfaction  that  our 
Father  in  heaven  always  has  had  some  way,  some  means  whereby 
he  knows  what  is  going  on  throughout  all  his  creations.  May  God 
bless  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  may  give  heed  to  the 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

counsel  given  to  us  by  our  brethren,  from  time  to  time,  because 
I  know  from  my  past  experience  that  if  we  will  heed,  it  will  be  for 
our  benefit  and  that  we  will  reap  the  benefits  that  we  desire. 
May  God  bless  us,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus.     Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  B.  WHITE 

President  of  the  Hyrum  Stake 

I  feel  very  keenly  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  one  who 
attempts  to  address  a  congregation  of  this  size.  In  fact  my  heart  has 
been  beating  very  rapidly  ever  since  President  Grant  announced  that 
I  would  be  one  of  the  speakers  this  afternoon.  To  be  Latter-day  Saints 
means  service.  We  must  be  prepared  on  all  occasions  to  defend  the 
gospel ;  to  speak  upon  it  whenever  we  are  called.  We  sometimes  feel 
that  we  have  not  anything  to  say,  which  may  be  true  in  some  cases.  I 
think  as  Latter-day  Saints,  we  depend  more  upon  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
to  actuate  our  remarks  than  does  any  other  denomination  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth.  I  am  very  grateful  for  this.  The  Lord  knows  what 
is  best  to  be  said ;  what  is  best  to  be  done.  If  we  will  act  in  accordance 
with  the  dictates  of  that  spirit,  we  will  not  go  wrong.  Whatever  we 
do  will  be  for  the  advancement  of  this  great  work. 

About  five  years  ago,  or  a  little  more,  I  was  called  upon  to  preside 
over  the  Hyrum  stake.  I  felt  wholly  incapable  of  performing  that  great 
work.  But  I  want  to  bear  testimony  to  you  that  this  work  is  indeed  a 
wonderful  work,  and  if  we  will  put  forth  the  efforts  necessary  in 
order  to  carry  the  responsibility  that  is  placed  upon  us,  we  will  be 
able  to  accomplish  this  work.  One  of  the  greatest  testimonies  I  have 
of  the  divinity  of  this  work  is  the  very  rapid  growth  it  has  made  since 
first  established,  through  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith,  despite  the  great 
obstacles  that  confronted  him,  and  by  which  the  people  have  been 
confronted  from  that  time  up  to  the  present.  If  it  had  not  been  for  the 
help  and  work  of  the  Lord,  it  would  not  have  endured ;  nor  advanced 
from  six  members  to  more  than  about  five  hundred  thousand,  the 
present  population  of  the  Church.  President  Grant  gave  a  report  this 
morning  of  the  wonderful  work  that  we  are  doing  throughout  the  nations 
of  the  earth;  of  the  spiritual  growth  and  development  of  this  Church. 
No  greater  privilege  can  come  to  a  Latter-day  Saint  than  to  be  called 
to  perform  a  service  in  this  Church.  A  short  time  ago  I  was  checking 
upon  the  number  of  people  in  the  wards  and  in  the  stake  who  are 
holding  office,  and  I  find  that  over  50%  of  the  entire  stake  population 
hold  offices  in  this  Church.  We  know  that  in  order  to  advance  we 
must  work.  Success  is  dependent  upon  continuous  work.  We  have  an 
opportunity  to  work  all  the  time,  if  we  only  will  to  do  it,  and  the 
advancement  that  we  would  make  in  the  future  would  be  wonderful 
if  75%  or  80%  of  those  who  held  office  in  this  Church  would  only 
respond  to  the  calls  that  are  made  of  them  in  a  whole-hearted  way  and 
be  absolutely  dependable.  We  could  not  do  otherwise  than  grow  and 
flourish. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  B.   WHITE  71 

Our  organization  embraces  all  truth.  It  covers  every  good  thing. 
The  people  of  the  nations,  the  people  of  the  world  today  are  seeking 
after  organization.  They  find  that  it  is  necessary  to  organize  in  order 
to  protect  business,  and  to  protect  themselves  in  a  social  way,  in  order 
that  men  may  succeed  in  any  undertaking.  We  have  this  great  or- 
ganization, and  we  could  apply  it,  if  we  desire,  to  any  line  of  business, 
and  I  believe  it  would  be  effective.  I  do  not  think  there  is  any  other 
organization  in  a  business  way  that  would  be  quite  as  effective  as  this 
one. 

I  do  not  wish  to  continue  my  remarks,  but  I  want  to  bear  my 
testimony.  I  know  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord ;  and  I  know  that  if 
we  will  perform  the  duties  of  Latter-day  Saints,  we  cannot  but 
advance,  gain  knowledge,  wisdom,  and  understanding;  we  cannot 
but  be  prosperous,  if  we  will  heed  the  instruction  of  those  who  preside 
over  this  Church.  I  pray  that  this  may  be  our  happy  lot,  and  I  ask  it 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

The  Metropolitan  Singers,  W.  F.  Robinson,  director,  sang  two 
selections:  (a)  "Prayer  Perfect;"    (b)  "Holy  Art  Thou." 

ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 

President  of  the  Ogden  Stake 

One  of  the  main  reasons  that  we  all  so  thoroughly  enjoyed  the 
chorus  to  which  we  have  just  listened  is  because  of  the  almost  perfect 
harmony  of  the  voices.  Not  a  discord  did  we  hear.  And  I  pray  that  the 
same  harmony  may  continue  in  our  midst  during  the  time  I  shall 
stand  before  you ;  and  to  the  end  that  this  harmony  may  exist,  and  we 
may  each  be  in  tune  with  the  Spirit  of  God,  I  trust  that  each  one 
present  will  offer  up  silently  a  prayer  that  we  may  receive  a  message 
that  will  be  of  benefit  to  us.  We  are  God's  children.  He  lives ;  he  is 
in  very  deed  our  Father.  He  loves  us.  He  has  a  message  for  us  be- 
cause of  his  love.  And  I  do  pray,  and  I  have  continued  to  pray  in  my 
heart  since  President  Grant  announced  this  morning  that  I  was  to 
be  one  of  the  speakers,  that  I  may  be  instrumental  in  the  hands  of 
our  Father  in  saying  something  that  will  be  of  value  to  us. 

I  am  grateful  for  my  membership  in  this  Church.  I  am  grate- 
ful for  the  association  of  such  men  as  our  leaders.  I  am  grate- 
ful for  the  association  of  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  for  your 
loyalty  to  the  Church.  I  am  grateful  for  the  loyalty  of  this  Church 
to  the  Constitution  of  this  great  country  of  ours.  And  if  there  is  one 
truth  more  than  another  that  I  should  like  to  emphasize  this  afternoon, 
it  is  the  necessity  for  this  loyalty.  An  undivided  and  an  unselfish 
loyalty  is  essential  to  success  in  any  line;  I  do  not  care  whether  it  is  in 
a  religious  line,  civic  line,  in  business,  or  what  not ;  to  succeed  one  must 
be  loyal.  And  I  say  again,  I  am  thankful  for  the  loyalty  of  the 
so-called  "Mormon"  people,  to  the  laws  of  this  country. 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

I  often  like  to  contemplate  in  connection  with  this  theme  of 
obedience,  of  loyalty,  the  experience  of  Samuel  and  Saul — Samuel  the 
humble  prophet  of  the  Lord ;  Saul  the  great  general,  large  in  stature, 
we  are  told,  broad-minded,  a  big  man.  Saul,  as  king  of  Israel,  was 
called  and  told  through  the  humble  prophet,  Samuel,  to  go  into  the 
cities  of  the  Amalekites  and  destroy  them — not  to  spare  any.  Saul 
gathered  his  armies  together  and  in  obedience  to  that  command  went 
among  the  Amalekites,  but  he  did  not  carry  out  the  instructions  of  the 
humble  prophet  entirely.  He  spared  the  king,  Agag,  and  some  of  the 
fat  cattle  and  sheep.  "Why,"  he  thought,  "of  course,  the  prophet 
told  me  to  destroy  everything,  but  he  does  not  know  the  conditions 
that  exist  here;  if  he  did,  perhaps  he  would  not  have  told  me  to  destroy 
everything.  Why  not  spare  these  fat  animals  and  take  them  back ; 
offer  sacrifices;  make  a  showing?" 

When  the  word  came  to  Samuel  the  prophet,  he  was  sad,  we  are 
told,  and  went  out  to  meet  Saul  on  the  return  of  the  victorious  armies ; 
and  he  asked  Saul  what  it  meant,  this  lowing  of  cattle  and  bleating 
of  sheep.  "Why,"  Saul  said,  "I  brought  them  back  to  offer  sacrifice 
to  the  Lord."  And,  O  those  wonderful  words  that  Samuel  gave  utter- 
ance to,  "Obedience  is  better  than  sacrifice,  and  to  hearken  than  the 
fat  of  rams!" 

There  are  Sauls  in  our  midst  today,  perhaps,  who  think  that  in 
the  wards  they  know  more  than  the  bishops.  "The  bishop  is  only 
a  boy,  only  a  young  man.  Others  are  here  full  of  experience.  They 
know  better  than  the  bishop  what  the  ward  needs."  No ;  you  do  not, 
brethren  or  sisters.  The  bishop,  no*  matter  how  young  he  is,  no  matter 
how  inexperienced  he  is,  has  been  called  and  set  apart  by  the  authorities 
of  God,  our  heavenly  Father.  It  is  our  duty  to  give  those  in  authority, 
whether  bishop,  president  of  the  Relief  Society,  or  Primary,  the  super- 
intendent of  the  Sunday  school,  or  the  Young  Men,  or  what  not — 
it  is  our  duty  to  give  that  officer  undivided  and  unselfish  loyalty, 
if  we  wish  to  succeed  in  this  Church. 

In  the  history  of  the  Church,  from  the  beginning,  this  truth  is 
well  illustrated.  There  were  those  in  the  days  of  the  Prophet  who 
knew  more  than  he  did.  were  better  educated,  had  more  experience, 
and  were  not  in  a  position  to  give  that  undivided  cooperation  that 
was  essential.  And  what  became  of  them?  So  it  was  in  the  days  of 
President  Brigham  Young.  There  were  those  who  knew  more  than  he 
did ;  he  is  not  the  man  for  the  presidency  of  the  Church,  they  said. 
But  what  happened  to  them?  You  can  go  on  through  the  history  of 
the  Church.  It  is  full  of  examples  of  those  who  were  not  big  enough — • 
I  say  big  enough,  to  give  undivided  and  unselfish  loyalty. 

To  be  loyal  is  the  only  safe  course  to  pursue.  What  is  true  of  the 
individual  is  true  of  the  community,  is  true  of  the  nation.  We  are 
told  in  one  of  our  Articles  of  Faith  that  we  believe  in  being  subject 
to  kings,  presidents,  rulers,  and  magistrates,  in  obeying,  honoring,  and 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKA  Y  72, 

sustaining  the  law.  There  are  some  among  us,  I  am  sorry  to  say, 
who  seem  to  be  wavering  at  the  present  time  with  reference  to  honoring, 
obeying,  and  sustaining  certain  laws.  "It  is  alright,"  they  say,  as 
one  of  the  brethren  quoted  from  President  Grant,  "to  sustain  those 
laws  when  they  do  not  come  in  conflict  with  our  business  or  with 
our  appetites ;  otherwise  they  are  not  good  for  us !" 

I  am  thankful,  I  repeat  again,  for  the  loyalty  of  the  "Mormon" 
people  in  sustaining  the  prohibition  law,  and  I  am  sorry  that  some,  ap- 
parently, from  what  they  say  and  from  their  actions,  are  wavering. 
Let  us,  as  a  people,  be  loyal  in  support  of  those  laws.  They  are 
constitutional,  have  been  so  declared.  And  it  is  the  safe  course,  as 
far  as  the  people  of  this  Church  are  concerned,  to  honor,  sustain,  and 
obey  those  laws,  whether  we  like  them  or  not.  And  I  want  to  tell 
you  that  it  is  the  safe  course  for  this  nation  to  follow.  When  individuals 
or  a  community  or  a  nation  select  only  those  laws  that  suit  them,  and 
obey  them  and  break  those  other  laws,  they  are  in  a  dangerous  position. 
When  a  constitutional  amendment  prohibiting  slavery  was  passed, 
there  were  those  who  were  not  ready  to  sustain  and  uphold  that  amend- 
ment, just  as  there  are  those  now  who  are  not  ready  and  willing  to 
uphold  and  sustain  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States.  The  Volstead 
act  is  a  part  now  of  the  Constitution  of  this  nation,  and  is  so  declared 
by  a  large  majority  of  the  people  of  this  great  nation,  and  it  is  the  duty 
of  this  nation  to  uphold  and  honor  and  sustain  the  Constitution. 

God  help  us,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  loyal,  to  be  true,  that  we 
may  succeed  as  individuals,  as  a  community,  and  as  a  nation,  is  my 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  feel  sure  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  have  assembled  here 
this  afternoon  have  been  repaid  a  hundred  fold  in  hearing  the  things 
that  have  been  said.  If  we  will  hearken  to  the  counsels  that  have  been 
given  in  this  conference,  I  am  also  sure  that  it  will  result  in  our  happi- 
ness and  exaltation. 

A  great  deal  has  been  said  in  regard  to  the  testimony  that  we 
have  of  the  divinity  of  this  work  and  the  divinity  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  The  ,Young  Men's  and  Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement 
Associations  during  the  present  year  have  had  for  their  slogan,  "We 
stand  for  an  individual  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ." 
In  this  great  day  and  age  of  the  world,  when  there  is  so  much 
agnosticism  and  so  much  doubt  and  so  much  unbelief,  it  seems  to  me 
it  is  particularly  fitting  that  emphasis  shall  be  laid  upon  that  great 
and  important  principle  upon  which  we  stand  and  for  which  we  are 
laboring,  that  we  may  establish  it  among  the  children  of  men. 

How  are  we  going  to  obtain  a  testimony  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ? 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

How  may  we  know  and  have  a  testimony  of  it,  that  Joseph  Smith  is 
a  prophet  of  God?  At  no  time  in  all  the  history  of  the  world  has  the 
Lord  left  his  children  without  divine  guidance,  without  some  way  of 
communicating  to  them  and  letting  them  know  where  they  stand  and 
what  is  necessary  for  them  to  do  in  order  that  they  may  come  to  the 
knowledge  of  God;  because  to  know  him  and  to  know  his  Son,  Jesus 
Christ,  whom  he  hath  sent  into  the  world,  is  in  very  deed  life  eternal. 
It  is  highly  important,  then,  that  in  the  community  that  is  enjoying 
a  dispensation  of  God's  providence,  a  community  to  whom  have  been 
committed  the  revelations  of  the  Lord,  the  building  up  of  the  Church 
and  kingdom  of  God  here  upon  the  earth,  it  is  very  necessary  that  every 
man,  every  woman,  and  every  child  shall  know  that  this  is  the  work 
of  God ;  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  whom  God  has  raised  up 
in  the  day  and  age  in  which  we  live  to  usher  in  his  glorious  dispensa- 
tion. Do  we  know  it  ? 

A  great  many  people  have  some  very  peculiar  ideas  in  regard 
to  the  testimony  which  ought  to  be  in  the  hearts  of  every  one  of  them. 
What  is  the  testimony  of  Jesus  Christ?  What  is  the  testimony  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  true  prophet  of  God?  What  is  the  testimony 
that  God  lives?  What  is  the  testimony  that  enables  us  to 
say  that  Peter,  James,  and  John  were  apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
endowed  with  power  from  on  high,  and  that  they  spake  under  the 
inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  God?  How  do  we  know  these  things? 
Let  me  tell  you.  There  is  only  one  way  to  know  the  things  of  God, 
and  the  Lord  intends  that  his  people  shall  receive  that  knowledge  in 
his  appointed  way.  There  is  only  one  way  by  which  we  may  come  to 
the  knowledge  of  God;  only  one  way  in  which  we  may  know  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ ;  only  one  way  that  we  may  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  sent  of  God,  and  it  is  within  the  reach  of  every  member 
of  this  Church ;  and  it  is  a  shame  unto  them  if  they  have  not  received  it. 

Have  we  obeyed  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  have  we 
had  faith  in  him ;  have  we  believed  in  him ;  and  have  we  been  repentant 
and  turned  away  from  our  wrongdoing?  Have  we  hearkened  to  the 
testimony  and  advice  and  counsel  of  the  servants  of  God?  Have  we 
gone  into  the  waters  of  baptism  and  received  the  remission  of  our  sins  ? 
Have  hands  been  laid  upon  us  for  the  reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost? 
If  we  can  answer  these  questions  in  the  affirmative,  every  one  of  us 
can  rise  and  say,  "I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  God,  because  I  have 
received  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,"  through  which,  and  through 
which  alone,  any  man  can  know  of  the  things  of  God. 

What  do  you  suppose  this  gift  is  for?  Why  do  we  receive  it? 
O  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  living  in  a  world  of  sin,  of  darkness, 
and  of  error,  and  the  minds  of  the  people  are  darkened  regarding  the 
things  of  God.  Why?  Because  they  have  not  obtained  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  That  is  the  condition  of  the  world  at  large.  We  have 
received  it.    There  is  nothing  in  all  the  world  of  more  practical  benefit 


ELDER  RULON  S.    WELLS  75 

to  those  who  enjoy  it  than  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  There  is  nothing 
more  important  to  us  in  our  lives  than  to  have  within  us  that  wonderful 
gift.  Every  man  that  has  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  every  woman, 
every  boy  and  every  girl  who  has  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and 
will  keep  it,  just  as  sure  as  they  live,  they  will  be  exalted  in  the 
celestial  kingdom  of  God ;  and  without  it,  no  soul  will  ever  obtain  that 
salvation.  And  every  one  that  has  that  gift  knows  that  this  is  the  work 
of  God,  for  that  is  what  the  spirit  within  us  knows.  If  we  have  it, 
then  it  is  ours.  Let  the  spirit  speak  within  you,  if  you  have  received 
this  wondrous  gift,  and  I  hope  that  all  of  you  know  that  this  is 
the  work  of  God,  for  that  is  the  office  of  the  Spirit  of  God  within  you. 
If  you  do  not,  it  is  because  your  faith  was  not  sincere,  it  is  because 
you  did  not  repent  of  sin  and,  therefore,  you  did  not  receive  the  re- 
mission of  your  sins,  and  consequently  could  not  obtain  that  wonderful 
gift. 

But  we  possess  that  spirit  in  varying  degrees.  It  manifests  itself 
variously  among  the  children  of  men,  brought  out  by  the  experiences 
of  our  lives  and  the  opportunities  that  have  come  to  us,  wherein  the 
spirit  has  had  opportunity  to  manifest  itself  in  our  lives.  Have  we 
given  that  spirit  opportunity?  Practical,  I  say,  is  this  thing,  the 
operations  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  but  some  have  allowed  it  to  sleep  within 
them;  and  even  in  that  early  day  Paul  had  to  write  to  Timothy,  who 
was  really  a  valiant  servant  of  God,  but  became,  no  doubt,  a  little 
neglectful.  Paul  said:  "Stir  up  the  gift  of  God  which  is  within 
thee,  which  thou  receivedst  by  the  laying  on  of  my  hands."  That 
ought  to  be  said  to  Latter-day  Saints,  if  it  is  not  awake  and  alive  in 
them,  bearing  witness  to  the  truth  of  this  work.  Then  "stir  up  that 
gift  within  you,"  for  you  have  the  right  to  it. 

If  you  have  kept  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  you  have  done  so 
by  keeping  the  commandments  and  keeping  yourself  sweet  and  clean 
and  unspotted  from  the  sins  of  the  world.  But  if  you  have  committed 
sin  and  grieved  the  Spirit  of  God,  it  may  have  departed  from  you, 
and  that  is  a  terrible  condition  to  be  in. 

Sometimes  I  have  heard  young  men  who  were  aftout  to  depart 
into  the  mission  field  get  up  in  the  congregation  in  their  own  ward 
and  say  that  they  did  not  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  God,  but  they 
believed  it ;  and  they  were  going  out !  I  dislike  to  hear  a  young  man 
say  that ;  I  do  not  like  to  hear  any  Latter-day  Saint  say  that.  Do 
not  say  that.  Why?  Because  you  grieve  the  Spirit  of  God  that  is 
within  you.  You  might  as  well  say,  "I  haven't  received  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,"  for  that  is  exactly  what  it  means  when  you  say,  "I  haven't 
the  testimony  of  the  truth  of  this  work."  It  is  a  confession  that  you 
haven't  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  The  Spirit  of  God  in  you  is 
continually  crying  out  for  utterance.  Give  it  the  opportunity,  and  when 
you  do,  you  will  find  there  will  be  a  burning  in  your  heart  that  will 
convince  you  that  you  speak  the  words  of  truth.     You  may  not  know 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

when  you  rise  on  your  feet  exactly  what  you  are  going  to  say,  but 
give  the  Spirit  a  chance,  it  will  declare  the  truth  that  this  is  the  work 
of  God,  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  and  Joseph  Smith  is 
a  prophet  of  God.  That  is  what  the  Spirit  wants  to  say  to  every 
child  of  God  upon  the  face  of  the  earth,  because  God  knows  that 
they  need  it. 

What  is  the  purpose  of  our  receiving  that  wonderful  gift,  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost?  As  I  stated  before,  we  are  living  in  a  world  of 
sin;  we  have  a  battle  to  fight  against  the  powers  of  evil;  we  have 
the  knowledge  of  good  and  evil,  and  God  is  continually  striving  with 
us  by  the  power  of  his  Holy  Spirit.  But  while  he  is  doing  that,  there 
are  other  powers  in  the  world,  endeavoring  to  destroy  the  souls  of 
the  children  of  men.  That  conflict  did  not  begin  here  upon  this  earth. 
It  began  in  heaven,  before  the  foundations  of  this  earth  were  laid,  even 
in  that  primeval  day  that  we  sometimes  read  about,  when  "the  morn- 
ing stars  sang  together  and  all  the  sons  of  God  shouted  for  joy."  Why 
did  they  shout  for  joy?  Because  the  proclamation  was  made  that  these, 
the  children  of  God — you  and  I  and  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth — 
standing  in  the  presence  of  our  Maker,  should  receive  this  earth-life 
experience,  and  thereby,  with  a  knowledge  of  good  and  evil,  work  out 
our  salvation  with  fear  and  trembling  before  the  Lord  and  be  brought 
back  into  his  presence  and  exalted,  clothed  upon  with  immortality  and 
eternal  life.  That  was  the  program,  and  we  shouted  for  joy,  you  and 
I  and  all  the  sons  of  God,  as  we  were  assembled  upon  that  great 
occasion.  It  was  necessary  that  the  fall  should  take  place ;  that  Adam 
should  introduce  the  race  of  mankind  upon  the  earth ;  that  the  law  should 
be  broken  and  the  penalty  brought  into  the  world,  the  penalty  of  death, 
that  came  into  the  world  as  a  consequence  of  original  sin. 

But  it  meant  an  opportunity  of  development,  of  education,  of 
growth  of  those  qualities  that  are  divine,  to  make  us  like  our  Maker, 
that  we  might  become  like  him  in  very  deed ;  for  as  we  were  told,  our 
eyes  were  opened  to  the  knowledge  of  good  and  evil.  And  Jesus  was 
chosen.  "Here  am  I,"  said  he.  And  his  offer  was  accepted.  It  was  the 
offer  of  doing  the  work  that  the  Father  would  have  done,  carrying 
out  the  divine  will.  It  was  a  law  that  gave  to  all  mankind  their  in- 
dividual liberty,  free  agency,  with  the  knowledge  of  good  and  evil,  to 
choose  between  the  two.  That  is  what  we  obtained  through  the  fall 
of  Adam — the  privilege  of  living  here  upon  this  earth,  with  this 
knowledge  that  we  have,  and  with  free  agency,  the  right  to  exercise 
it;  but  with  admonition  to  reject  the  evil  and  do  the  good,  that  we 
might  inherit  eternal  life  in  the  presence  of  God.  That  is  what  we  are 
here  for,  and  the  conflict  is  still  on.  There  was  another  one  in  that 
council  that  rebelled  against  God.  He  said,  "O  send  me,  here  am  I, 
too  many  will  be  lost  in  that  plan  of  yours;  too  many  will  go  astray; 
too  many  will  be  lost,  for  in  the  free  exercise  of  their  agency  they 
will  not  do  the  right  thing,  many  of  them,  and  they  will  be  lost.     So 


ELDER  RULON  S.    WELLS  77 

here  am  I,  send  me.and  I  will  see  to  it  that  not  one  soul  shall  be  lost. 
I  will  compel.  This  free  agency  will  not  do."  Freedom  was  a  law 
of  heaven,  but  slavery  and  servitude  was  the  plan  of  this  son  of  the 
morning,  Lucifer,  for  he  it  was  who  made  that  proposition.  And  he  was 
rejected  and  cast  down  because  of  his  rebellion  against  God  and 
the  plan  of  life  and  salvation,  and  with  him  fell  one-third  of  the  hosts 
of  heaven.  Fell  where?  Right  down  here  upon  this  earth,  where  you 
and  I  are  living.  And  we  meet  them  every  day.  You  meet  them  and 
so  do  I — Lucifer  and  his  hordes,  these  that  are  endeavoring  to  lead 
mankind  astray,  away  from  the  path  of  right,  into  that  servitude  where 
he  will  compel  and  dominate.  That  is  the  struggle  that  is  on,  and  it 
is  in  everything  that  we  do,  because  there  is  a  right  way  and  a  wrong 
way  to  do  everything,  and  when  we  elect  to  do  it  the  right  way,  we  are 
serving  God  and  keeping  his  commandments ;  but  when  we  do  it  the 
wrong  way,  we  are  yielding  to  the  adversary.  The  great  principle  of 
refraining  from  sin  is  enjoined  upon  humanity,  and  we  have  daily  need 
to  practice  that  saving  principle ;  but  we  are  i-n  conflict  with  a  very 
formidable  foe  and  their  name  is  legion,  Satan  and  all  his  hosts,  en- 
deavoring to  gain  the  victory  over  us. 

Now  then,  wherein  comes  the  benefit  of  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost?  Have  you  thought,  or  do  you  think  that  you  can  gain  the 
victory  over  so  formidable  a  foe  without  the  help  of  God?  I  do  not  think 
so,  not  one  of  us.  And  the  Lord  does  not  think  so,  and  he  desires  that 
you  shall  be  properly  upheld  and  supported  in  your  endeavor  to  gain 
this  victory,  and  he  proposes  to  help  you.  How?  By  giving  you  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  without  which  no  man  can  gain  the  victory 
over  evil.  Have  you  engaged  in  that  conflict?  Hasn't  the  Lord  come 
to  your  help?  Has  he  not  rescued  you  from  the  power  of  the  adversary? 
If  he  has,  it  is  because  the  Holy  Spirit  has  been  with  you.  Don't  you 
know  it?    Isn't  that  the  testimony  of  God's  power  to  you? 

How  did  you  get  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost?  If  you  have  it  at  all, 
you  have  received  it  because  Peter,  James,  and  John  came  and  visited 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  laid  their  hands  upon  his  head  and 
ordained  him  to  the  Holy  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  That  is  why  you 
have  it.  There  were  some  who  had  received  the  word  of  the  Lord  down, 
in  Samaria,  but  they  had  not  received  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
They  had  been  baptized  with  water.  "Now  when  the  apostles  which 
were  at  Jerusalem  heard  that  Samaria  had  received  the  word  of  God, 
they  sent  unto  them  Peter  and  John  [those  same  men  who  came  to 
Joseph]  who,  when  they  were  come  down,  prayed  for  them,  that  they 
might  receive  the  Holy  Ghost:  (for  as  yet  he  was  fallen  upon  none 
of  them:  only  they  were  baptized  [with  water.])  Then  they  laid  their 
hands  on  them  and  they  received  the  Holy  Ghost."  Acts  8.  That  is 
what  happened.  And  if  you  have  received  that  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
you  have  received  it  because  those  same  apostles  came  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  laid  their  hands  upon  his  head  and  conferred  that 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Holy  Priesthood  upon  him,  and  gave  him  the  power  that  on  whom- 
soever he  laid  his  hands  he  might  receive  that  same  gift.  That  is  the 
way  you  got  it,  every  one  of  us,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  from  that 
one  source.  > 

O,  some  people  think  they  can  get  it  without  that.  That  is  what 
Simon,  the  sorcerer  thought.  It  was  an  outward  demonstration  there. 
It  was  even  apparent  to  him,  and  when  he  saw  that  on  whomsoever 
these  apostles  laid  their  hands  he  received  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
he  came  and  offered  them  money,  so  that  on  whomsoever  he  might 
lay  his  hands,  the  same  might  also  receive  that  gift.  You  remember  the 
words  of  Peter,  "Thy  money  perish  with  thee,  for  thou  hast  thought 
to  buy  the  gift  of  God  with  money."  O  no,  it  cannot  be  obtained  that 
way !  It  cannot  be  obtained  except  as  God  gives  it  to  us.  Through  the 
restoration  of  the  Priesthood,  we  have  received  these  wonderful  gifts, 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  practical  in  all  of  its  phases,  practical  to 
all  of  us. 

But  it  is  a  terrible  thing  to  get  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and  then 
lose  it.  We  can  only  do  that  through  transgression.  If  we  have  only 
kept  ourselves  clean,  we  have  it  still,  if  hands  have  been  laid  upon  us 
in  this  Church ;  and_we  should  stir  up  that  gift  until  it  is  alive  within  us. 
It  will  manifest  itself,  if  you  will  become  active;  if  you  will  take  your 
part ;  if  you  lift  up  your  voice  and  cry  repentance  and  labor  for  Zion. 
The  Spirit  will  show  itself  within  you,  if  you  will  declare  the  truths 
of  heaven ;  you  cannot  but  say  that  you  know,  and  the  Spirit  does 
know  it.  It  is  a  terrible  thing  to  lose  it,  and  that  is  what  some  people 
have  done.  I  call  attention  to  one  historical  instance  of  it.  There  was 
David,  the  shepherd  king  of  Israel,  a  man  after  God's  own  heart. 
How  the  Lord  loved  that  man !  He  was  full  of  faith ;  said  he,  "The 
Lord  is  my  shepherd ;  I  shall  not  want.  He  maketh  me  to  lie  down 
in  green  pastures :  he  leadeth  me  beside  the  still  waters.  He  restoreth 
my  soul :  he  leadeth  me  in  the  paths  of  righteousness  for  his  name's 
sake."  That  was  the  testimony  of  David.  O  how  full  and  overflowing 
was  he  with  that  faith  and  confidence  in  God,  in  whom  he  believed  to 
the  bottom  of  his  soul.  But  David  sinned  against  God,  and  in  the 
agony  of  his  soul  and  in  his  repentant  mood,  he  cried  out  to  the  Lord. 
"Create  in  me  a  clean  heart,  O-God,  and  renew  a  right  spirit  within  me. 
Cast  me  not  away  from  thy  presence ;  and  take  not  thy  holy  Spirit 
from  me."  O,  Latter-day  Saints,  it  is  a  terrible  thing  to  have  it  taken 
away.  David  obtained  a  promise  before  he  died  that  the  Lord  would 
not  leave  his  soul  in  hell,  and  I  like  to  think  that  he  will  yet  receive  com- 
pensation for  all  that  he  has  done  in  upbuilding  the  faith  of  mankind  in 
those  unstinted  words  of  his  wherein  he  expresses  his  devotion  and 
faith  in  God. 

It  was  practical  in  every  way.  Paul  wrote  to  the  Corinthian  Saints 
— that  is  to  Saints  like  yourselves,  who  had  faith  in  God,  had  repented 
of  their  sins,  had  received  the  remission  of  their  sins  in  the  waters  of 


ELDER  RULON  S.   WELLS  79 

i 

baptism  and  had  received  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on 
of  hands — and  said  unto  them,  "Know  ye  not  that  ye  are  the  temple  of 
God,  and  the  Spirit  of  God  dwelleth  in  you.  If  any  man  defile  the 
temple  of  God,  him  shall  God  destroy,  for  the  temple  of  God  is  holy, 
which  temple  ye  are."  So  might  we  say  to  Latter-day  Saints,  "Know 
ye  not  that  ye  are  the  temples  of  God,  and  the  Spirit  of  God  dwelleth  in 
you?"  Are  you  not  conscious  of  that,  Latter-day  Saints?  We  can 
realize  it.  Do  not  defile  that  temple,  for  it  is  holy.  Do  not  transgress 
the  laws  of  God,  and  you  will  keep  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost; 
and  as  long  as  you  do,  that  is  the  testimony  of  the  truth  of  this  work, 
and  the  only  way  to  have  a  testimony.  What  we  may  not  know  through 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  hardly  worth  knowing.  "Eye  hath  not 
seen,  nor  ear  heard,  neither  have  entered  into  "the  heart  of  man,  the 
things  which  God  hath  prepared  for  them  that  love  him.  But  God 
hath  revealed  them  unto  us  by  his  Spirit;  for  the  Spirit  searcheth  all 
things,  yea,  the  deep  things  of  God.  For  what  man  knoweth  the 
things  of  a  man,  save  the  spirit  of  a  man  which  is  in  him  ?  Even  so 
the  things  of  God  knoweth  no  man  but  the  Spirit  of  God." 

If  we  have  the  Spirit  of  God,  then,  and  then  only,  can  we  know  the 
things  of  God.  So  let  us  cultivate  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  that  we 
received  by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  for  he  will  lead  us  back  into  the  pres- 
ence of  God.  He  is  the  Comforter,  the  teacher,  the  educator,  our 
tutor,  our  monitor,  our  daily  companion.  If  we  will  only  so  live  that 
we  may  enjoy  his  sweet  presence,  it  will  enlighten  our  minds,  enlarge 
our  understanding,  fill  us  with  wisdom  and  knowledge  and  understand- 
ing, that  we  may  know  the  things  of  God  by  his  holy  Spirit,  and  with- 
out it  we  cannot  come  to  that  knowledge. 

I  rejoice  this  afternoon  in  the  testimony  that  I  have  that  this  is 
true,  that  it  is  a  reality,  it  is  God's  way  of  helping  his  children  to 
gain  victory  over  evil.  The  difference  between  us  and  the  world  at 
large  consists,  then,  primarily  in  this  thing.  There  are  many  good 
people  in  the  world,  just  as  good  perhaps  as  we  are.  We  are  sending 
our  missionaries  out  to  them.  Why?  That  they  may  take  unto'  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth,  our  brothers  and  sisters  who  know  not  the 
truth,  the  glad  tidings  that  they,  too,  may  receive  the  same  joys  that  we 
have,  that  they  may  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  That  is  the 
difference  between  the  world  and  us.  If  they  can  only  secure  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost,  it  will  enable  them  to  work  out  their  salvation  and 
bring  them  back  into  the  presence  of  God.  But  there  is  only  one  way 
to  get  it,  and  Latter-day  Saints  know  what  that  way  is.  And  so  we 
send  our  missionaries  out  with  that  message  to  tell  unto  the  inhabitants 
of  the  earth,  that  they,  too,  may  receive  that  priceless  gift,  and  be  en- 
abled to  overcome  this  world  of  sin,  and  eventually  be  saved  and  exalted 
in  the  celestial  kingdom  of  God. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  appreciate,  then,  what  it  means  to  have 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  let  us  not  say,  as  long  as  we  have 


,80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

this  gift,  that  we  do  not  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  God.  I  have 
heard  it  sometimes  said,  "Oh,  you  want  to  be  very  careful  about  saying 
what  you  know."  Very  true,  that  may  be  so;  but  let  me  tell  you,  it  is 
sometimes  more  dangerous  in  telling  them  that  you  do  not  know ;  for 
then  you  give  the  adversary  a  hold  upon  you.  Do  not  fall  into  that 
danger,  because  when  you  say  that,  you  merely  indicate  that  you  are 
not  in  possession  of  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Develop  it  then  within 
you,  and  as  you  labor  in  the  ministry,  as  you  labor  in  advocating  the 
truth,  as  you  labor  in  bringing  men  and  women  to  a  knowledge  of  it, 
and  in  perfecting  your  own  lives  and  overcoming  your  own  weaknesses, 
by  the  power  and  influence  of  that  Holy  Spirit,  you  will  grow  in  the 
knowledge  of  God,  and  your  testimony  will  grow  day  by  day ;  it  will 
burn  in  your  hearts  and  you  will  know  it  beyond  all  shadow  of  doubt. 
That  is  the  office  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
May  we  then  prize  it  above  all  things,  and  so  live  that  we  may  always 
enjoy  his  sweet  companionship,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.     Amen. 

An  anthem  was  sung  by  the  choir,  "God  is  our  refuge  and 
strength." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  David  R.  Lyon  of  the 
Ensign  stake.     The  meeting  adjourned. 


SECOND  DAY 

MORNING  SESSION 

Monday,  April  5,  1926,  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  a  large  audience 
gathered  in  the  great  Tabernacle  on  this  the  second  day  of  the  con- 
ference. 

Meeting  opened  promptly  at  10  o'clock. 

President   Heber  J.    Grant    presided. 

The  congregation  sang,  "O  say  what  is  truth?" 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown,  presi- 
dent of  the  Lethbridge  stake  of  Zion. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Zion  stands  with  hills  surrounding." 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

I  think  perhaps  the  greatest  contribution  that  I  could  hope  to 
make  to  this  conference  would  be  in  the  brevity  of  my  remarks,  and  I 
hope  that  I  may  be  able,  in  a  few  minutes,  to  make  a  few  suggestions 
which  may  be  of  some  worth. 

THE  PRIESTHOOD  AND  THE    HOME   OUTSTANDING   ESSENTIALS 

If  I  were  asked  what  thing  I  regard  as  being  most  essential  to  the 
progress  of  the  Church  and  the  well-being  of  its  members,  I  think  that 
I  would  answer  by  mentioning  two  things :  First,  the  Priesthood, 
and  then  the  home.  I  have  long  felt  that  these  two  great  institutions 
lie  at  the  very  basis  of  our  work  and  its  advancement. 

THE   PRIESTHOOD  AN    AGENCY   OF   SERVICE   TO    MANKIND 

We  have  during  the  past  three  months  been  holding  Priesthood 
conventions  in  connection  with  the  quarterly  conferences  of  the  Church. 
I  have  been  delighted  to  see  the  emphasis  placed  upon  this  work,  and 
I  am  hopeful  that  it  may  result  in  a  higher  and  keener  appreciation 
for  the  great  power  which  comes  from  God  and  which  is  so  liberally 
bestowed  upon  the  men  and  the  boys  of  our  Church.  I  have  construed 
that  power  and  interpreted  it  largely  in  terms  of  service.  I  don't  be- 
lieve that  the  Priesthood  has  been  bestowed  upon  men  merely  for  their 
own  aggrandizement.  I  look  upon  this  power  as  an  agency  for  service 
to  mankind.  I  have  characterized  it  as  the  perfect  plan  of  service. 
I  believe  that  it  will  not  greatly  profit  any  man  to  hold  the  power  of 
the  Priesthood  unless  he  uses  that  power  for  the  benefit  of  his  fellows. 
Indeed,  I  have  come  to  think  that  the  holding  of  the  power  may  con- 
duce to  his  condemnation  rather  than  his  exaltation,  if  he  is  indifferent 
to  it  and  fails  to  utilize  it  for  the  advancement  of  God's  work.  So 
.  I  think  that  no  more  worthy  enterprise  can  be  fostered  and  carried 
forward  by  our  presiding  officers  in  the  Church  than  to  give  to  our  boys 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

and  men,  and  indeed  to  the  whole  membership  of  the  Church,  a  better 
comprehension,  a  higher  regard,  for  the  holy  power  which  God  in  his 
goodness  has  given  to  us. 

PRIESTHOOD  TO   BE  USED   IN   THE  ADMINISTRATION   OF   HOME 

This  power  is  to  be  used,  not  alone  in  presiding  over  the  organ- 
izations of  the  Church,  and  not  alone  in  the  administration  of  the 
sacred  ordinances  of  the  gospel ;  it  is  to  be  used  in  the  administration  of 
our  homes.  Every  man  who  bears  it  ought  by  possession  of  the  power 
to  be  a  better  husband  and  father.  By  virtue  of  the  power  he  is  entitled 
to  be  regarded  with  respect  and  deference,  and  I  most  heartily  commend 
the  teaching  of  our  children  to  respect  and  regard  the  power  of  the 
Priesthood,  presiding  over  the  home,  as  a  basis  for  the  inculcation  of 
the  great  virtue  of  reverence  which  was  stressed  in  this  building  last 
evening.  There  ought  to  be  a  difference  between  homes  presided  over 
by  the  power  of  the  Priesthood  and  those  homes  which  are  not.  Men 
who  bear  the  Priesthood  ought  to.be  better  neighbors;  they  ought  to 
be  better  citizens,  indeed  in  every  way  they  ought  to  be  superior  men. 
If  there  is  no  distinction  between  the  men  who  have  received  this  holy 
power  and  those  who  have  not,  then  I  think  we  may  well  look  to  our- 
selves to  find  our  deficiencies.  The  very  holding  of  this  power  charges 
every  man  who  is  blessed  with  it  to  live  more  nearly  a  godlike  life,  for 
he  holds  a  portion  of  Godhood  itself.  I  commend  to  my  brethren  and 
sisters  the  emphasis  of  this  power  with  the  young  boys  who  have 
recently  received  it.  It  should  be  taught  to  them  that  because  these 
powers  are  widely  distributed  they  are  not  cheap. 

NO    ORGANIZATION    A    SUBTITUTE    FOR    HOME 

I  said  the  second  great  institution  I  would  stress  is  that  of  the 
home.  I  am  well  aware  that  this  institution  receives  very  considerable 
attention  at  our  hands,  and  that  few  meetings  pass  in  which  it  does  not 
have  mention.  My  suggestion  is  that  we  so  concentrate  our  study,  our 
attention  and  our  effort  upon  this  institution  that  we  maKe  it  more 
effective  than  it  has  been  in  giving  the  virtues  of  true  righteousness 
and  purity  of  life  to  our  children.  I  am  very  sympathetic  with  the 
attention  and  emphasis  placed  upon  our  auxiliary  associations,  but  I  am 
thoroughly  persuaded  that  not  any  one  of  these  organizations,  or  all  put 
together,  can  be  substituted  for  our  homes  in  the  culture  of  manhood  and 
womanhood.  The  homes  are  the  very  nurseries  from  which  spring  the 
most  worthy  products  of  the  Church,  the  State  and  the  Nation.  They 
need  more  direct  attention,  and  parents,  by  virtue  of  their  very  parent- 
hood, are  charged  with  a  responsibility  second  to  no  other  responsibility 
ever  coming  to  them  in  their  lives,  the  responsibility  to  return  in  purity 
the  lives  entrusted  to  their  care.  God  grant  that  we  may  so  safeguard 
this  sacred  and  immortal  institution,  that  it  may  achieve  its  great  mission 
in  the  lives  of  men  and  of  women,  and  God  grant  that,  with  the  Priest- 
hood, these  two  fundamental  institutions  may  bring  into  the  lives  of 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS  83 

Latter-day  Saints  a  great  appreciation  for  the  blessings  of  the  gospel 
and  a  determination  and  resolution  to  keep  the  commandments  which 
he  has  given  to  his  children,  I  ask  humbly,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.     Amen. 

ELDER    HYRUM    G.    SMITH 

Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church 

I,  also,  have  had  opportunity  to  visit  the  stakes  of  Zion  where 
we  have  recently  held  the  Priesthood  conventions  and  conferences,  with 
the  membership  of  the  Church,  and  I  think  of  all  the  quarterly  con- 
ferences that  we  hold  with  the  stakes  of  Zion  I  have  enjoyed  most  the 
work  of  the  Priesthood.  I  have  been  greatly  pleased,  as  well  as  many 
of  the  parents  of  the  Church,  to  see  the  young  men  of  Zion  stand  up  and 
in  a  public  place  declare  their  appreciation  for  the  power  of  God  that 
has  been  given  unto  them.  With  my  brother  who  has  just  spoken,  I,  too, 
am  impressed  with  the  thought  that  it  is  a  wonderful  sensation  to  dis- 
cover in  ourselves  a  power  which  comes  from  above,  and  the  only  way 
to  discover  that  power,  is  to  use  it,  when  it  is  given  to  us.  It  some- 
times takes  a  little  courage  on  the  part  of  young  men  in  the  Church,  as 
well  as  some  of  the  elderly  men  also,  to  go  forward  and  use  their  powers 
Which  the  Lord  has  given  them,  but  unless  we  do  use  and  magnify  them 
I  am  impressed  that  they  will  be  of  little  or  no  value  to  us.  It  is  a 
wonderful  sensation  to  witness  in  yourselves  the  power  of  God,  the 
power  to  do  and  say  things  that  are  beyond  your  own  physical  and  mental 
strength.  I  heard  a  very  splendid  lecture  the  other  evening  by  one  of 
our  educators  and  doctors  in  speaking  of  some  of  the  gifted  men  of  the 
nation,  in  their  efforts  to  bring  to  light  the  truth.  He  said  that  it  was 
probably  their  imagination  which  places  them  in  the  lead  in  bringing 
to  the  world  the  things  which  they  were  permitted  to  do;  but  I  have 
been  willing,  to  grant  just  a  little  further  blessing  to  these  men,  because, 
I  believe  that  they  are  possessed  of  a  power  that  is  just  a  little  beyond 
their  imagination,  even  though  it  may  be  keen  and  brilliant,  because  I  be- 
lieve that  our  Father  in  heaven  inspires  men  who  are  honest  in  heart  and 
who  are  seeking  after  truth,  and  that  he  blesses  them  with  gifts  that 
make  men  more  powerful  and  useful  than  those  of  ordinary  intelligence, 
or  brilliant  imagination.  It  occurs  to  me  that  the  joy  which  comes  to 
men  through  using  their  gifts,  is  somewhat  comparable  to  the  feeling 
that  impresses  men  when  they  are  moved  upon  by  the  power  of  God 
while  functioning  in  his  work,  even  under  the  influence  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  by  the  power  of  the  holy  Priesthood.  In  my  mind  one  of  the 
greatest  blessings  that  can  come  to  a  man,  is  to  function  in  the  holy 
Priesthood,  to  fulfil  his  duty  in  assisting  to  bring  about  the  purposes  of 
the  Lord  in  the  earth. 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  we  understand,  is  for  all  people  who 
will  obey  its  teachings,  who  will  hearken  and  who  will  study  and  practice 
the  laws  of  truth  which  have  been  taught  to  the  world,  and  in  spite  of 


84  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

that  the   Master   himself   taught   his   disciples,   and   in  one   particular 
passage  of  the  scripture  were  these  statements : 

"Enter  ye  in  the  straight  gate,  for  wide  is  the  gate  and  broad  is  the 
way  that  leadeth  to  destruction,  and  many  there  be  which  go  in  thereat, 
because  straight  is  the  gate  and  narrow  is  the  way  which  leadeth  unto 
life,  but  few  there  be  that  find  it." 

When  men  and  women  take  advantage  of  their  opportunities  to  use 
the  light  and  knowledge  which  comes  to  them,  then  they  enjoy  the 
blessings,  because  the  Lord  has  been  merciful  unto  them,  those  who 
obey  his  commandments,  he  has  remembered  with  the  power  that  has 
strengthened  them  against  doubt  and  discouragement  and  against  the 
thwarts  of  the  adversary  to  place  barriers  in  their  pathway,  until  just 
in  my  brief  experience  in  the  work  of  the  Lord  I  have  discovered,  to 
my  great  satisfaction,  that  those  who  are  willing  to  seek  and  to  learn  and 
to  take  advantage  of  their  opportunities,  are  the  ones  to  whom  the 
Lord  is  very  merciful,  and  whom  he  will  strengthen  against  the  tempta- 
tions of  the  adversary  to  place  barriers  in  their  pathway ;  until  I  believe 
it  is  possible  for  a  greater  number  of  the  children  of  men  to  receive 
important  powers  and  blessings  which  God  has  in  store  for  them  than 
are  enjoying  them  at  the  present  day.  The  Lord  has  been  kind  in 
establishing  his  work  in  the  earth  where  men.  and  women  have  taken 
advantage  of  their  opportunities  and  have  in  a  way  cultivated  their 
talents  and  have  prepared  themselves  to  teach  God's  truth,  which  is 
his  gospel,  which  has  been  revealed  to  the  earth  in  its  plainness,  in  its 
fulness,  in  our  own  language,  it  has  been  taught  in  nearly  all  the 
languages  of  the  world ;  so  I  have  been  constrained  to  believe  that  the 
Lord  has  been  very  kind  to  his  children.  It  is  my  humble  desire  to 
express  the  wish  that  all  who  desire  to  teach  the  truth  may  have 
occasion  to  do  so,  by  taking  advantage  of  their  opportunities  to  further 
cultivate  their  gifts  and  talents  in  preparation  to  stand  upon  the  towers 
of  Zion  as  watchmen,  as  teachers,  as  defenders  of  God's  work  in  all 
of  its  departments,  for  I  want  to  testify,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  this  is  a  day  when  the  Lord  has  required  of  you  and  me  that 
we  be  prepared  to  defend  his  work,  to  teach  it  by  precept  and  by 
example,  wherever  it  may  be  our  lot  to  labor.  I  pray  that  the  spirit  of 
defendership  may  be  upon  us  all,  that  the  spirit  to  avoid  the  conditions 
of  the  world,  the  spirit  to  live  so  that  we  may  walk  in  that  narrow  way 
which  leadeth  to  life  instead  of  the  easy,  forgetful,  disobedient  way, 
perhaps,  that  leadeth  through  that  broad  gate  to  the  way  of  destruction  ; 
and  in  humility,  as  a  servant  of  the  Lord,  I  leave  in  this  conference,  and 
in  the  Church  today,  with  the  leaders  thereof,  and  with  the  membership 
thereof,  the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  that  the  spirit  of  discernment,  that  the 
spirit  of  teachership,  the  spirit  of  true  defense  may  be  in  our  hearts, 
and  with  us  all  in  our  homes  and  in  our  work,  both  in  temporal  and 
spiritual  affairs,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ     Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRlN  85 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRlN 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  President  of  the  California  Mission 

It  is  certainly  a  very  great  privilege,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
be  permitted  to  take  part  in  this  great  conference  of  the  Church.  I 
trust  that  the  few  moments  that  I  occupy  this  position  I  may  be  led  to 
say  such  things  as  shall  be  in  keeping  with  the  occasion  and  that  may 
be  of  some  benefit  and  advantage  to  those  who  are  gathered  together. 

I  am  very  glad  to  be  able  to  report  the  California  mission  as  being, 
from  my  viewpoint,  in  good  condition.  We  have  had  a  larger  number 
of  missionaries  in  the  field  during  the  past  Winter  than  we  have  ever 
had  during  any  previous  period  in  the  history  of  the  mission.  This 
larger  number  is  accounted  for  owing  to  the  fact  that  a  good  many 
short-term  missionaries  were  sent  to  California.  A  large  number  of  the 
short-term  men  who  have  been  assigned  to  California  have  been  men 
quite  well  advanced  in  age,  two  or  three  of  them  being  just  under 
eighty  years  of  age.  They  have  all  manifested  a  splendid  spirit  and 
have  been  very  anxious  to  magnify  their  callings  as  preachers  of  the 
gospel.  Their  spirit  has  been  stronger  in  some  instances  than  their 
physical  organism,  and  a  number  of  these  elders  have  already  been 
released  on  account  of  failing  health.  Those  who  have  been  released 
were  not  quite  able  to  stand  up  to  the  stress  of  missionary  work.  I  am 
very  sorry  to  say  that  one  of  these  brethren,  Brother  Thomas  Wilson 
of  the  Woodruff  stake,  after  returning  home  suffered  for  a  con- 
siderable period  of  time  and  then  passed  on  to  the  great  beyond.  Elder 
Wilson  was  a  good  and  faithful  man.  We  appreciate  the  splendid  work 
that  has  been  accomplished  by  the  short-term  missionaries.  Short-term 
missionaries  will  be  made  welcome  again  in  California.  While  I  have 
no  thought  that  it  is  my  prerogative  to  indicate  what  should  be  done 
regarding  this  class  of  missionaries,  I  take  it  from  some  expressions  that 
I  have  heard  from  some  of  these  brethren  that  they  could  just  as  well 
as  not  have  been  in  the  mission  field  earlier  in  the  season  if  they  had 
received  notification,  and  this  certainly  would  be  a  very  great  advantage 
to  missionary  work.  If  short-term  missionaries  could  be  notified  so 
as  to  leave  their  homes,  probably  not  later  than  the  month  of  October, 
they  could  give  more  time  in  the  field  and  thus  make  their  services 
more  valuable.  They  could  render  service  during  the  winter  months 
and  still  return  in  time  to  take  up  their  farming  operations'.  I  think 
the  great  majority  of  these  short-term  missionaries  who  have  been  as- 
signed to  California  have  been  men  who  have  been  engaged  in  agri- 
cultural pursuits.  Many  of  them  have  already  been  released  to  return 
home  in  order  that  they  might  give  attention  to  the  planting  of 
spring  crops,  and  the  balance  of  these  short-term  men  I  suppose  will 
be  home  within  a  month  or  two  from  the  present  time.  They  have 
brought  a  splendid  influence  into  the  mission.  They  are  men  of  faith 
and  confidence,  they  have  set  a  good  example  before  the  people  and 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

have  had  wonderful  testimonies  to  bear  in  relation  to  the  great  work 
that  the  Lord  our  God  has  planted  among  the  children  of  men. 

We  also  have  an  excellent  body  of  young  men  and  women ;  and 
while  I  suppose  every  mission  president  is  anxious  to  have  some  men 
of  experience  in  the  mission  field  to  lead  the  way,  to  preside  over 
conferences,  to  instruct  and  teach  younger  men  and  women,  personally 
I  feel,  the  longer  I  labor  as  a  missionary,  that  our  Father  in  heaven 
made  no  mistake  when,  through  his  servants  from  the  very  beginning,  he 
called  very  youthful  men  to  go  abroad  to  represent  him  in  the  preach- 
ing of  the  gospel.  It  is  perfectly  marvelous  to  note  the  change  that 
takes  place  with  these  missionaries.  Last  Saturday  night  I  had  the 
pleasure  of  meeting  quite  a  body  of  California  missionaries  in  their 
missionary  reunion,  and  I  was  proud  of  that  company  of  young  men  and 
women.  Just  a  short  time  ago  I  met  every  one  of  these  young  people 
in  the  mission  field  when  they  first  reported  for  missionary  labor, 
and  almost  invariably  I  met  trembling  boys  and  trembling  girls.  They 
hardly  knew,  as  a  rule,  whether  they  had  any  testimony  concerning  the 
divinity  of  the  work  of  our  God,  or  not.  In  fact  it  has  not  been  an 
unusual  thing  to  hear  some  of  these  missionaries  say  that  they  did  not 
have  a  testimony,  they  believed  in  the  work  of  God,  they  had  faith  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God,  and  they  were  anxious  to  come  to 
the  knowledge  which  they  had  heard  their  parents  and  bishops  and 
presidents  talk  about  in  their  home  communities.  These  young  people 
that  I  met  in  the  reunion  were  a  different  class  of  young  men  and 
women  altogether  from  the  young  men  and  women  I  met  as  Aey  came 
into  the  mission  field.  They  were  no  longer  trembling.  They  were 
no  longer  in  any  doubtful  mood  concerning  the  work  of  God.  They 
were  full  of  conviction.  Instead  of  striking  hands  with  trembling 
boys  in  a  good  many  instances,  I  found  myself  shaking  hands  with 
bishops  in  the  Church  of  Christ,  with  bishop's  counselors,  and  with 
stake  superintendents  of  Mutual  Improvement  organizations,  and  Sun- 
day school  organizations,  and  it  was  evident  from  the  words  that  fell 
from  their  lips,  in  the  brief  conversations  I  was  able  to  hold  with  them, 
that  they  were  in  very  deed  ministers  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  and  that  they  had  burning  in  their  souls  the  same  testimony,  the 
same  knowledge,  the  same  understanding,  that  were  in  possession  of  their 
fathers  and  mothers. 

I  said  in  our  Mutual  Improvement  General  Board  meeting  the 
other  night,  when  there  was  a  little  discussion  regarding  testimony, 
that  I  heard  one  of  our  bright,  well-educated  young  missionaries  say  that 
he  had  attended  one  of  our  Church  schools  for  four  years  until  he 
graduated  from  that  school,  and  then  attended  the  Brigham  Young 
University  for  four  years  until  he  graduated  from  that  institution  of 
learning,  and  he  made  this  wonderful  statement :  "I  have  come  to 
understand  my  relationship  toward  my  Father  in  heaven,  the  nature  and 
importance  of  the  Priesthood  of  Almighty  God  that  has  been  conferred 
upon  me,  and  the  duty  I  owe  to  my  fellowmen,  better  in  the  three 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN  87 

months  that  I  have  been  laboring  here  as  a  missionary  than  during  all 
those  years  when  I  was  attending  school  and  taking  regular  theo- 
logical lessons."     Then  he  added:     "And  I  had  good  teachers,  too." 

I  hope  there  will  not  be  any  thought  in  the  mind  of  any  educator 
who  may  be  in  this  great  congregation,  that  I  do  not  entertain  a  proper 
appreciation  for  education.  I  would  to  God  that  I  had  more  education 
myself.  I  am  proud  of  the  men  in  our  midst  who  have  passed  through 
great  institutions  of  learning  in  our  own  land  and  in  other  lands, 
and  who  have  had  conferred  upon  them  degrees  of  honor,  because  of 
their  educational  attainments,  and  yet  I  do  hold  that  in  giving  actual 
service  in  the  preaching  of  the  gospel,  in  coming  in  contact  with  in- 
dividuals who  question  one  in  relation  to  the  principles  that  have  been 
revealed  of  God,  there  comes  by  the  power  of  God,  and  the  inspiration 
and  revelation  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  an  understanding  regarding 
the  purposes  of  God,  the  greatness  and  power  and  necessity  of  his 
work,  that  cannot  be  obtained  from  books,  and  that  cannot  be  put 
into  the  hearts  of  men  by  teachers,  let  them  labor  ever  so  well  and 
faithfully.  I  do  not  understand  that  there  is  any  way  of  coming  to  a 
comprehension  of  the  purposes  of  God  other  than  by  having  the  com- 
panionship of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  If  we  come  to  understand  the 
truth,  as  one  of  the  old  apostles  taught,  it  must  be  by  the  revelation 
of  God.  So  taught  the  apostle  Paul  to  the  Galatians.  There  is  no 
other  way. 

I  am  greatly  comforted  when  I  hear  testimonies  such  as  I  have 
referred  to ;  and  missionaries  bear  many  such  testimonies.  I  heard  one 
of  our  college-bred  men,  Elder  Louis  E.  Rowe,  who  is  at  present  in 
charge  of  the  Sunday  school  and  Mutual  Improvement  work  in  the 
California  mission,  make  the  statement  not  long  ago  that  he  would 
not  exchange  the  information  and  understanding  that  had  come  into 
his  soul  as  a  result  of  his  missionary  labors  for  all  the  college  training 
that  he  had  ever  received,  or  ever  expected  to  receive.  With,  I  hope,  a 
due  appreciation  for  the  declaration  that  came  from  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  that,  "The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence,"  I  myself  entertain 
the  thought  that  there  does  come  by  the  power  of  God  and  by  the 
mysterious  revelation  of  the  holy  Spirit,  a  knowledge,  concerning  the 
purposes  of  Almighty  God  that  is  superior  to  anything  that  any  man 
living  has  ever  obtained  or  ever  will  obtain  while  the  world  stands,  from 
any  institution  of  learning. 

Our  Father  in  heaven  has  established  this  work.  Men  in  the  world 
do  not  believe  it.  We  have  been  sent  out  to  bear  testimony  that  God 
has  set  his  hand  to  accomplish  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder. 
Yesterday  when  I  looked  over  this  great  congregation  I  wondered  what 
can  be  in  the  minds  of  men  and  women  not  of  our  faith  when  they  come 
into  this  tabernacle  and  see  it  crowded  to  its  utmost  capacity  with 
Latter-day  Saint  men.  Latter-day  Saint  congregations  are  not  made 
up  chiefly  of  women,  as  is  the  case  in  many  of  the  churches  of  the 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

world.  Our  meetings  are  crowded  with  men,  men  of  hard  sense, 
men  who  know  something  about  the  battle  of  life ;  yet  they  leave  their 
affairs  and  come  from  long  distances  that  they  may  be  in  this  general 
conference. 

As  I  looked  over  the  tremendous  gathering  yesterday  morning 
there  came  into  my  mind  the  promise  that  was  made  by  one  of  the 
prophets,  Isaiah,  when  he  said : 

"And  it  shall  come  to  £ass  in  the  last  days,  that  the  mountain  of  the 
Lord's  house  shall  be  established  in  the  top  of  the  mountains,  and  shall  be  exalted 
above  the  hills ;  and  all  nations  shall  flow  unto  it.  And  many  people  shall  go 
and  say,  Come  ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain  of  the  Lord,  to  the  house 
of  the  God  of  Jacob ;  and  he  will  teach  us  of  his  ways,  and  we  will  walk  in 
his  paths :  for  out  of  Zion  shall  go  forth  the  law,  and  the  word  of  the  Lord 
from  Jerusalem." 

Another  prophet,  Jeremiah,  made  this  declaration: 

"Turn,  O  backsliding  children,  saith  the  Lord;  for  I  am  married  unto  you; 
and  I  will  take  you  one  of  a  city,  and  two  of  a  family,  and  I  will  bring  you 
to  Zion :  And  I  will  give  you  pastors  according  to  mine  heart,  which  shall  feed 
you  with  knowledge  and  understanding." 

I  have  had  some  experience  as  a  missionary  in  many  of  the  nations 
of  the  world.  In  my  missionary  work  I  have  been  brought  in  contact 
with  many  thousands  of  Latter-day  Saints  who  have  been  converted 
to  the  truth  of  the  great  message  that  missionaries  are  attempting  to 
deliver  to  the  peoples  of  the  earth,  and  I  know  that  they  have  not  come 
up  to  Zion  for  gold  or  for  silver  or  for  perishable  things. 

I  call  to  mind,  now,  that  many  years  ago,  when  I  was  a  boy 
missionary  in  Scotland,  in  conversation  with  a  good  sister  in  that  country 
she  made  this  statement  to  me:  "I  would  to  God  that  the  way  might 
be  opened  up  that  I  might  go  to  Zion  with  my  children.  It  would 
not  matter  to  me,"  said  that  good  mother,  "though  I  was  sure  to  lay 
down  my  life  on  the  journey,  if  I  could  only  have  in  my  soul  the 
knowledge  that  my  children  would  be  taken  to  the  land  of  Zion,  and  that 
they  would  be  brought  up  under  the  care  and  teaching  of  the  servants 
of  God."  I  know  that  men  and  women  who  have  gathered  from  afar, 
to  this  land,  designated  by  the  Lord  our  God  for  the  gathering  of  his 
people,  are  actually  fulfiling  the  promise  that  was  made  by  the  holy 
prophets,  that  they  are  coming  to  the  land  of  Zion  with  the  thought 
uppermost  in  their  minds,  that  they  may  learn  more  perfectly  of  the 
ways  of  God ;  that  they  may  receive  more  completely  of  the  blessings 
that  our  Father  in  heaven  has  to  give  to  his  servants  and  his  hand- 
maidens who  are  willing  to  keep  his  commandments. 

I  would  like  to  ask  the  strangers  who  are  present  in  this  con- 
gregation :  Where  else  in  all  the  world  can  a  people  be  found  who 
have  been  gathered  from  all  nations  like  this  people,  or  where  else 
among  the  religions  of  the  world  can  teachers  be  found  who  believe 
in  the  promises  of  the  prophets  such  as  I  have  mentioned?     Men  at 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN  89 

large  are  not  looking  for  any  such  fulfilment  of  the  promises  of 
God.  The  Latter-day  Saints  alone  teach  and  believe  in  such  promises 
as  are  made  by  Isaiah,  Jeremiah  and  other  prophets  pertaining  to  the 
last  days. 

I  rejoice  in  my  ministry,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  I  can  not 
conceive  of  any  line  of  employment,  that  any  human  being  can  have, 
more  desirable  or  that  produces  greater  joy  in  the  human  heart  than 
that  which  is  found  by  men  and  women  who  are  engaged  in  calling 
repentance  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  and  in  teaching  to  them  the 
precious  truths  that  have  been  revealed  for  the  salvation  of  the  human 
family.  I  feel  grateful  to  my  brethren  of  the  presiding  authorities  of 
the  Church  for  the  opportunities  they  have  given  me  to  labor  in  the 
ministry,  to  labor  at  the  present  time  in  the  great  state  of  California. 
I  feel  grateful  to  them  for  the  kind  words  they  have  spoken  to  me,  for 
the  encouragement  they  have  given  me  and  my  companions,  and  I 
have  a  strong  desire  in  my  soul  to  perform  the  duties  that  rest 
upon  me  to  the  best  of  my  ability,  and  to  be  found  always  crying 
repentance  among  the  people  and  bearing  witness  to  the  truth  as 
it  has  been  revealed.  It  is  true  there  are  not  any  great  numbers  that 
pay  attention  to  the  testimony  borne  by  "the  missionaries.  In  the 
California  mission,  during  the  year  just  passed  away,  there  were  about 
seven  hundred  sixty  baptisms.  A  large  number  of  these  baptisms 
were  the  children  of  Latter-day  Saints  who  reside  within  the  confines 
of  the  mission,  but  we  rejoice  when  we  take  into  consideration  the 
declaration  of  our  Father  in  heaven  that  if  one  labors  for  a  life  time 
and  saves  but  one  soul,  how  great  will  be  his  joy  with  that  soul  in  the 
kingdom  of  God.  Then  if  we  put  that  measure  of  importance  and  value 
upon  the  souls  of  men,  wonderful  things  are  following  the  ministry 
of  these  missionaries,  not  only  in  California,  but  in  all  the  missions 
throughout  the  world,  for  I  take  it  that  few  as  the  baptisms  may  be, 
they  are  far  in  excess  of  one  soul  to  each  man  and  woman  who  has  been 
called  to  labor  as  a  missionary. 

Then  there  is  another  great  responsibility  that  rests  upon  the 
missionaries.  It  is  not  to  be  gauged  by  the  number  of  souls  that 
we  lead  down  into  the  waters  of  baptism.  It  has  always  been  the 
decree  of  God  and  his  manner  of  working  with  the  inhabitants  of 
the  earth,  to  send  forth  his  servants  to  warn  mankind  and  bear  witness 
concerning  the  judgments  of  the  Almighty  that  are  to  overtake  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth,  and  those  judgments  have  not  ceased,  as  the 
Lord  God  liveth. .  All  that  he  has  promised  by  the  mouths  of  his  holy 
prophets  in  due  time  shall  be  brought  to  pass ;  and  upon  the  shoulders 
of  these  men  who  have  been  called  to  labor  as  missionaries  there  rests 
a  responsibility  to  warn  the  people  and  testify  as  widely  as  possible  that 
the  heavens  have  been  opened,  that  God  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ  have  come  to  earth,  that  holy  angels  have  been  sent  by  the 
command  and  appointment  of   God,  and  these  holy  messengers  have 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

conferred  upon  the  heads  of  mortal  men  authority  of  the  holy  Priest- 
hood, the  power  to  speak  legally  in  the  name  of  God.  That  authority 
is  here,  it  is  with  the  missionaries ;  they  feel  it.  No  wonder  they  say 
there  has  come  to  them  a  knowledge  and  comprehension  concerning  the 
purposes  of  God  which  they  have  never  been  able  to  obtain  in  institu- 
tions of  learning,  but  they  found  it  by  revelation  in  the  service  of  God. 
I  bear  witness  to  this  truth.  I  rejoice  in  it.  I  know  that  God 
lives,  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith,  the  man  chosen  to  introduce  this 
great  work  of  the  latter  days,  was  called  and  ordained  to  the  authority  of 
the  Priesthood  by  the  commandment  of  Almighty  God.  The  Lord's 
Spirit  has  so  testified  to  me  and,  whether  my  fellowman  entertains  the 
thought  that  I  am  radical  or  otherwise,  God  being  my  witness,  I  know 
that  this  is  his  work,  and  that  it  cannot  be  destroyed.  It  has  been 
planted  to  remain.  That  is  the  promise  of  God.  Overturn  it  if  you 
ran !     Amen. 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  rejoice  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  testimonies 
that  have  been  borne,  and  the  instructions  given  in  this  great  con- 
ference. I  realize  that  all  of  you  who  have  come  together  have  come 
for  the  purpose  of  receiving  the  word  of  the  Lord  and  instruction  from 
his  servants,  and  I,  with  you,  have  listened  with  great  interest  and  ap- 
preciation to  the  instructions  that  have  been  given  to  us  by  the  Pres- 
idency and  those  of  the  authorities  who  have  already  spoken.  I  desire 
to  live  in  accordance  with  these  instructions,  and,  so  far  as  I  have^ 
power,  to  help  with  you,  to  carry  them  out  in  our  lives  for  the 
advancement  of  this  great  work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  I  appreciate 
the  fact  that  in  endeavoring  to  speak  to  you  this  morning  I  am  under 
a  great  responsibility,  and  that  unless  I  can  enjoy  the  influence  of 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  your  confidence  and  attention,  I  shall  not 
be  able  to  speak  in  such  a  way  as  shall  be  edifying  and  profitable  to 
you  who  are  present. 

I  have  rejoiced  greatly,  and  have  been  delighted  with  the  op- 
portunity that  has  come  to  me  to  visit  in  the  various  stakes  of  Zion. 
It  has  been  a  joy  to  attend  the  conferences  that  have  been  held,  and  to 
partake  of  the  fine  spirit  that  is  manifest  among  the  presidencies  of 
stakes,  the  bishoprics  of  wards,  and  the  sisters — the  women  who  are 
engaged  in  the  various  activities  which  are  common  to  them  in  the 
various  stakes  of  Zion — and  to  feel  the  spirit  generally  that  is  mani- 
fested in  these  stakes.  I  have  been  edified,  strengthened  and  en- 
couraged in  the  appreciation  of  the  fine  manhood  and  womanhood  that 
is  in  evidence  among  the  officers  and  members  throughout  the  Church. 

I  rejoice  in  the  fact  that  this  Church  will  have  been  organized 
ninety-six  years   tomorrow.     I   have  been  led   to   reflect   upon   some 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON  91 

of  the  things  that  have  happened  on  that  date.  It  is  believed,  I  think, 
that  on  or  about  this  date,  somewhat  like  nineteen  hundred  twenty- 
six  years  ago,  our  Savior  was  born,  and  that  about  thirty-three  years 
later,  on  or  about  this  same  date,  he  was  resurrected  from  the  dead ; 
that  yesterday,  the  day  that  is  celebrated  by  the  Christian  world  gen- 
erally as  the  day  of  his  resurrection,  conforms  very  closely  to  the  day 
which  we  celebrate  as  the  anniversary  of  the  organization  of  the  Church. 
There  are  other  events  that  have  occurred  on  this  same  date,  April 
6,  that  are  of  importance  in  addition  to  this  great  event  which  we 
celebrate — that  of  the  organization  of  the  Church.  I  am  reminded  that 
on  April  6,  T909,  Admiral  Peary  reached  the  North  Pole.  What 
connection  that  may  have  with  the  gospel  or  with  the  attitude  of  the 
Church,  I  leave  for  your  consideration.  I  am  reminded  also  that  on 
April  6,  1917,  war  was  declared  by  the  United  States  against  Germany 
and  Austria,  which  nations  were  engaged  at  that  time  in  a  war  against 
the  welfare  of  humanity.  This  nation  entered  into  that  conflict  with 
unselfish  purposes,  and  with  the  desire  in  mind  to  promote  liberty 
and  right  living.  As  Latter-day  Saints,  we  surely  appreciate  the  fact 
that  the  entry  of  the  United  States  into  that  war  was  in  conformity 
with  predictions  that  have  been  made  in  the  past  with  regard  to  con- 
flicts which  should  prevail,  and  also  the  part  which  this  nation  should 
take  in  the  promotion  of  liberty  among  mankind. 

I  was  impressed  greatly  with  statements  made  by  President  Grant 
in  his  opening  remarks  yesterday  morning  with  regard  to  the  blessings 
which  have  attended  the  people  of  the  Lord  in  coming  to  this  land, 
and  I  would  like  to  read  to  you  a  few  of  the  words  of  Isaiah  relative 
to  this  matter.    In  the  35th  chapter  of  Isaiah  we  read  as  follows: 

"The  wilderness  and  the  solitary  place  shall  be  glad  for  them;  and  the 
desert  shall  rejoice,  and  blossom  as  the  rose.     *     *     * 

"Strengthen  ye  the  weak  hands,  and  confirm  the  feeble  knees. 

"Say  to  them  that  are  of  a  fearful  heart,  Be  strong,  fear  not:  behold, 
your  God  will  come  with  vengeance,  even  God  with  a  recompense ;  he  will 
come  and  save  you. 

"Then  the  eyes  of  the  blind  shall  be  opened,  and  the  ears  of  the  deaf 
shall  be  unstopped. 

"Then  shall  the  lame  man  leap  as  an  hart,  and  the  tongue  of  the  dumb 
sing:   for  in  the  wilderness   shall  waters  break  out,  and  streams  in  the  desert. 

"And  the  parched  ground  shall  become  a  pool,  and  the  thirsty  land 
springs  of  water.     *     *     * 

"And  an  highway  shall  be  there,  and  a  way,  and  it  shall  be  called  The 
way  of  holiness;  the  unclean  shall  not  pass  over  it;  but  it  shall  be  for  those: 
the  wayfaring  men,  though  fools,  shall  not  err  therein.     *     *     * 

"And  the  ransomed  of  the  Lord  shall  return,  and  come  to  Zion  with  songs 
and  everlasting  joy  upon  their  heads:  they  shall  obtain  joy  and  gladness,  and 
sorrow  and  sighing  shall  flee  away." 

We  are  witnesses,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  the  fulfilment  of 
this  prophecy.  It  has  been  brought  to  pass  in  this  generation  in  the 
coming  of  the  people  of  the  Lord  to  this  community,  and  the  building  up 
of  this  land.    We  are  enjoying  the  blessings  that  have  followed  the  ac- 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ceptance  of  the  trials  and  sacrifice  which  they  made  in  coming  here. 
What  was  the  cause  of  their  coming,  or  by  what  means  were  they  able 
to  endure?  They  developed  the  spirit  of  obedience  and  willingness  to 
do  that  which  the  Lord  desired  of  them,  whereby  they  were  prepared 
to  submit  their  own  desires  and  feelings  for  the  welfare  of  this  work, 
and  the  accomplishment  of  God's  purposes,  with  an  appreciation  of  the 
.fact  that  his  word  and  his  will  had  been  declared  unto  them  by  those 
who  were  the  leaders  of  his  people. 

I  would  like  to  stress  for  a  moment  the  importance  of  this  spirit 
of  obedience.  The  Lord  has  given  to  us  a  knowledge  and  an  apprecia- 
tion of  the  responsibilities  of  the  principles  and  the  ordinances  which 
conform  to  his  house,  and  to  the  building  up  of  his  kingdom.  He  desires 
of  every  one  of  us  who  accept  of  these  things  that  we  shall  accept 
of  them  willingly  and  that  we  shall  endeavor  to  observe  them.  We  have 
heard  from  our  President  in  regard  to  the  principle  of  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  a  principle  and  a  revelation  that  has  been  before  this  people 
for  all  these  many  years,  so  plain  that  the  wayfaring  man  need  not 
err  with  regard  to  the  truth  and  the  divinity  of  the  principle  and  the 
assurance  of  blessings  which  follow  the  observance  of  this  principle. 
Let  me  call  your  attention  in  this  connection  to  the  statement  made  in 
one  of  the  opening  paragraphs  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  with  regard  to 
the  efforts  which  are  being  made  and  which  will  be  made  by  wicked 
men  conspiring  for  the  purpose  of  defeating  the  welfare  of  the  children 
of  men,  for  which  reason,  among  others,  the  Lord  has  made  plain 
this  revelation.  I  am  sure  that  every  one  of  us  appreciates  the  fact, 
if  we  will  but  consider  for  a  moment,  that  there  are  influences  at 
work  in  the  world  today  which  are  endeavoring  to  mislead  and  to 
deceive  the  people  of  the  world  with  regard  to  those  things  which  the 
Lord  has  declared  are  not  good  for  man,  such  as  tobacco  and  strong 
drink,  and  other  things  which  he  has  declared  are  not  for  our  welfare. 
Many  men  in  the  world  are  endeavoring  in  a  deceitful  way  to  make  these 
harmful  things  appear  attractive.  We  read  the  advertisements  of  these 
things  which  are  narcotic  in  their  nature,  and  we  can  perceive  very 
clearly  that  such  advertisements  are  worded  and  designed  in  order 
to  deceive  those  who  are  not  familiar  with  the  dangers  which  attend 
the  use  of  these  drugs  and  narcotics.  The  Lord  expects  of  us  that 
we  shall  observe  these  things.  As  he  has  given  this  commandment, 
we  should  be  ready  to  obey  it,  and  should  do  so  willingly.  There 
should  be  no  trial,  as  I  see  it,  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  observe  the 
principle  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  even  though  it  may  mean  that  we 
have  to  resist  the  temptation  or  the  desire  for  any  of  these  things.  If  we 
will  cultivate  the  spirit  of  obedience  and  humility,  there  is  no  reason 
at  all  why  every  one  of  us  cannot  observe  and  live  in  conformity  with 
the  principles  which  the  Lord  has  declared  in  that  revelation,  the 
Word  of  Wisdom. 

In  like  manner,  there  is  a  principle  and  a  law  that  has  been  given 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON  93 

far  our  development  which  .will  enable  us  to  overcome  our  selfishness 
and  enable  us  to  cultivate  charity  and  consideration  for  our  fellow- 
men,  for  the  welfare  of  mankind  everywhere.  We  heard  read  yesterday  a 
statement  of  the  expenditures  that  have  been  made  by  the  Church 
from  the  tithes  for  the  welfare  of  the  people,  and  I  want  to  say  to  you 
that  which  you  know  for  yourselves,  that  these  tithes  are  expended 
solely  for  the  welfare  of  the  people  of  the  Lord,  for  the  advancement  of 
his  purposes  in  the  earth,  for  the  promotion  of  the  welfare  of  man- 
kind, for  the  bringing  of  the  gospel  to  all  men  everywhere,  and  for 
these  purposes  only ;  and  the  tithes  are  expended  with  the  greatest 
wisdom  and  judgment,  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

The  Lord  has  given  to  us  this  commandment,  which  we  should 
observe,  that  one-tenth  of  all  of  our  increase  should  be  given  to  him 
annually.  Surely  every  Latter-day  Saint  can  ibe  taught  this  principle, 
and  can  learn  to  observe  it  in  conformity  with  that  spirit,  that  not  less 
than  one-tenth  of  all  that  we  earn,  not  less  than  one-tenth  of  all  our 
increase,  shall  be  given  to  him  for  the  advancement  of  his  work.  When 
the  people  of  the  Lord  came  to  this  land,  they  took  it  up  as  their  own, 
and  yet  I  am  sure  they  did  it  with  an  appreciation  that  they  were 
doing  so  as  stewards ;  that,  while  they  claimed  the  land,  they  realized 
the  fact  that  the  earth  is  the  Lord's  and  the  fulness  thereof.  In 
like  manner,  every  one  of  us  ought  to  cultivate  that  spirit,  and  the  ap- 
preciation of  the  fact  that  we  are  only  stewards  here  and  we  have 
what  we  enjoy  of  material  things  for  the  time  being  only.  We  cannot 
take  any  of  the  earthly  possessions  when  we  go  from  here.  We  can 
only  take  with  us  the  things  that  we  have  developed  in  the  way  of  faith, 
righteousness  and  good  works.  So  we  surely  ought  to  use  our  means 
and  administer  our  affairs  here  with  the  appreciation  in  our  hearts  that 
what  we  have  received  is  of  the  Lord,  and  that  he  will  bless  and  prosper 
us  in  larger  measure  as  we  show  our  appreciation  to  him  for  his  blessings 
unto  us. 

There  are,  also,  other  things,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  need 
to  learn  to  observe  and  to  obey  more  fully.  In  the  matter  of  the 
observance  of  the  Sabbath  day,  the  Lord  has  declared  to  us  how  we 
should  observe  that  day.  Many  people  question  at  times  how  we  should 
observe  it,  or  what  it  is  that  might  be  considered  as  breaking  the  Sab- 
bath. Surely  anything  that  interferes  with  the  spirit  of  peace  con- 
formable to  the  Sabbath  is  breaking  the  Sabbath.  There  should  be 
nothing  that  interferes  with  our  worship  or  that  causes  our  minds  to  be 
diverted,  nor  any  act  of  ours  that  causes  our  minds  to  de  detracted 
from  the  spirit  of  that  day;  but  in  all  of  our  acts  upon  that  day  we 
should  exercise  and  devote  our  minds  and  thoughts  to  those  things  that 
shall  help  us  to  grow  in  faith,  in  righteousness  and  in  good  works. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  have  received  the  promise  of  a  blessing, 
that  if  they  will  observe  the  principle  of  fasting  and  give  for  the 
benefit  of  those  who  are  in  need — the  fast  donations —  they  shall  be 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

prospered  and  blessed  and  grow  in  faith  ;and  righteousness.  Our  fast 
every  month  ought  to  be  in  the  spirit  and  with  the  purpose  of  obtain- 
ing some  particular  blessing  that  we  .need,  which  will  enable  us  to  gain 
spiritual  strength  and  power.  As  we  live  and  strive  in  this  way  we 
shall  cultivate  increased  strength  and  capacity,  we  shall  be  blessed 
physically  and  cultivate  more  of  the  spirit  of  charity  and  good  will  for 
our  fellowmen. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in  the  truth  of  the  gospel.  I 
rejoice  in  the  confidence  of  my  brethren  and  the  confidence  which  you 
have  in  me,  and  pray  that  I  may  be  worthy  of  it.  I  know  that  this 
restored  gospel  is  true.  It  has  been  an  assurance  to  me  all  my  life.  I 
was  brought  up  in  the  Church,  of  goodly  parents  who  trained  me  in 
the  spirit  of  the  gospel,  and  I  have  learned  to  know  for  myself  the 
divinity  of  this  work,  to  know  that  this  Church  which  is  named  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  is  in  very  deed  and 
absolutely  his  Church.  Of  all  the  churches  of  the  world,  it  is  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  founded  upon  the  foundation  of  apostles 
and  prophets,  with  Jesus  Christ  as  the  chief  cornerstone.  It  has  been 
established  under  his  immediate  direction  and  by  revelation  from  him. 
It  will  endure  and  carry  out  the  purposes  which  the  Lord  has  in  view  for 
the  accomplishment  of  righteousness,  truth  and  liberty  in  the  earth, 
and  the  preparation  for  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  man  to  reign  in 
righteousness  here.  May  we,  every  one  of  us,  do  our  part  to  advance 
the  purposes  of  God  and  to  help  to  bring  these  things  to  pass,  I  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  with  spirit  the  old  familiar  hymn  by  Elder 
Charles  W.  Penrose,  "O  ye  mountains  high." 

ELDER  LLOYD  O.  IVIE 

Former  President  of  the  Japan  Mission 

I  am  sure,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  have  never  in  my  life 
had  a  surprise  quite  like  this.  It  was  something  that  I  had  never 
expected.  I  really  have  never  felt  it  would  be  possible  within  my  life- 
time to  be  called  to  speak  to  an  audience  of  this  size,  though  I  have 
spoken  to  audiences  in  our  stake  assemblies.  I  do  feel  that  this  is  a 
place  where,  above  all,  we  should  be  able  to  receive  the  blessings  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord.  I  have  felt  that  Spirit  whenever  I  have  come  to 
conference,  here  in  fSalt  Lake.  I  have  always  felt  it  here,  perhaps, 
as  much  or  more  than  at  any  other  place. 

I  was  given  an  opportunity  as  a  missionary  to  labor  among  the 
Japanese  people.  I  am  sure  that  I  enjoyed  the  time  that  I  labored  in 
that  land.  I  have  had  faith  in  that  people.  I  know  there  are  many 
good  among  them.  I  realize  that  in  America  anything  concerning  the 
Japanese   is    spoken  of  with   considerable   prejudice,   due   perhaps   to 


ELDER  LLOYD  0.  IVIE  95 

political  and  other  reasons.  But  in  my  association  with  them  as  a  mis- 
sionary, I  have  found  much  good  among  them,  and  have  learned  to 
love  and  respect  them  in  very  deed.  I  really  think  and  feel  that  the 
Japanese  people  are  worth  while. 

Our  coming  to  Japan  was,  perhaps,  the  first  contact  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  with  other  than  Christian  religions, 
with  other  people  than  those  of  Christian  belief,  the  so-called  Christian 
denominations  of  the  world.  It  is  our  first  contact,  we  might  say,  with 
Buddhism,  a  religion  and  philosophy  which  is  so  much  different  from 
our  own;  and  I  have  found  that  in  this  we  have  a  new  work,  a  dif- 
ferent problem  to  solve,  and  it  is  one  that  is  going  to  tax  the  ingenuity 
and  faith  of  our  missionaries  and  of  our  people  before  that  problem 
shall  be  entirely  solved.  At  any  rate,  that  is  the  way  it  has  always 
seemed  to  me.  We,  cannot  go  before  those  people  and  preach  to  them 
the  gospel  by  quoting  passages  of  scripture,  and  say  that  this  is  true 
or  that  is  true,  because  it  says  so  in  the  Bible.  We  must  convince  them 
with  reason.  But,  of  course,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  we  know  and  under- 
stand that  truth  is  reason,  and  that  there  is  no  other  way  by  which 
we  can  receive  knowledge  and  understanding  except  by  study  and 
by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  that  we  must  reason  these  things  out  for 
ourselves.  That  is  one  of  the  strong  points,  I  think,  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  We  are  not  confined  to  what  is  said  in  any  book  of 
scripture,  though  it  is  true  those  books  are  the  foundation  of  our  re- 
ligion. They  make  us  what  we  are  historically ;  but,  at  the  same  time, 
we  as  Latter-day  Saints  feel  that  we  have  individual  testimonies,  each 
and  every  one  of  us,  concerning  the  gospel,  because  we  have  reasoned 
it  out  for  ourselves,  and  such  is  the  way  that  we  must  work.  As 
Latter-day  Saints,  that  is  the  way  we  must  obtain  our  testimony,  if  we 
feel  that  we  are  strong  enough  to  stand  against  those  various  doctrines 
that  spring  up  against  the  work  of  the  Lord  throughout  the  world. 
I  think  that  it  is  a  good  thing  for  us  all  to  gain  a  testimony,  not  only  by 
faith  and  prayer,  but  by  reason  and  by  study,  until  we  can  understand 
that  these  things  are  true,  even  though  the  scriptural  books  were  taken 
away  from  us.  I  think  that  is  one  thing  that  we  should  all  say  as 
Latter-day  Saints,  that  we  could  stand  on  the  testimony  we  possess,  even 
though,  through  some  freak  of  nature,  or  otherwise,  the  very  books  by 
which  we  have  been  taught  were  taken  away  from  us.  We  stand  upon 
that.  That  is  going  to  be  the  problem  in  my  mind  when  our  Church 
fully  solves  the  methods,  the  correct  methods,  of  doing  missionary  work 
among  this  people  who  believe  in  Buddhism.  I  believe  that  there  will 
be  a  great  work  done  among  that  people.  Of  course,  we  don't  un- 
derstand the  origin  of  the  Japanese.  We  don't  understand  entirely,  that 
is  of  a  surety,  whence  they  came,  though  many  opinions  have  been 
given,  and  much  has  been  studied  on  the  subject. 

While  I  was  in  that  country  I  had  an  opportunity  to  study  in 
company  with  a  native  man,  who  used  to  come  to  the  Book  of  Mormon 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

classes.  He  was  interested  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  from  the  viewpoint 
of  his  getting  knowledge  of  early  races;  from  the  viewpoint  of  learning 
of  the  origin  of  the  races.  That  was  what  he  was  studying,  as  a  lad. 
He  was  a  government  employee,  but  as  a  hobby  he  had  collected  a  large 
library.  By  the  way,  his  library  was  destroyed  in  the  great  earthquake, 
and  immediately  thereafter  he  came  back  to  the  Church  and  bought  a 
copy  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  saying  that  it  was  the  first  book  that  he 
had  purchased  to  begin  his  new  library  since  the  old  one  had  been 
destroyed ;  and  he  had  studied  these  problems  and  felt  that  the  Japanese 
people  had  perhaps  come  from  somewhere  around  Asia  Minor,  perhaps 
from  Greece  or  from  Egypt  or  in  that  district  somewhere,  and  he  had 
maps  that  he  had  collected  showing  something  to  that  effect.  It  is 
probable  that  such  might  be  the  case.  At  any  rate,  it  is  my  firm  belief 
and  opinion  that  there  is  the  blood  of  Israel  among  that  people.  I 
believe  that  some  day,  although  the  time  may  not  be  fully  ripe,  that 
blood  will  show  itself  in  greater  good  works  in  the  land. 

I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  that  the  restored  gospel  is  true.  I 
know  this  with  all  my  being.  The  only  problem  in  my  life  is  to  live 
worthy  of  those  things  which  we  know  and  understand  are  true  and 
correct.  I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  may  be  with  us  all, 
that  we  may  seek  continually  to  keep  his  laws  and  commandments,  and 
I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Our  concluding  speaker  will  be  President  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley. 
I  thought -the  Saints  would  be  pleased  to  hear  from  one  of  our  short- 
term  missionaries  who  has  had  experience  in  the  field. 

ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY 

President  of  the  Deseret  Stake,  and  one  of  the  Short-term  Missionaries 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  beg  of  you  that  you  will  sustain  me 
by  your  united  faith  and  prayers,  that  my  spirit  may  be  calm,  and  that 
the  Lord  may  be  able  to  use  me  in  his  own  way  for  the  few  minutes 
that  I  shall  stand  before  you.  I  certainly  do  appreciate  the  opportunity 
of  being  with  you  and  worshiping  with  you  during  the  sessions  of 
this  conference.  It  is  only  a  matter  of  a  few  days  since  I  wrote  home  to 
my  folks  and  said  to  them  that  this  would  be  the  first  conference  that 
I  had  missed  in  a  number  of  years;  but  that  I  hoped  that  they,  in 
their  attendance  here,  would  receive  that  reward  of  the  Spirit  of  this 
work  that  comes  to  us  when  we  are  associated  with  the  authorities  of 
this  Church,  who  speak  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  by  divine  authority. 

I  have  been  privileged  the  last  few  months  to  be  in  the  missionary 
field,  under  the  direction  of  President  Charles  A.  Callis,  in  the  Southern 
States  mission.  I  was  assigned  to  the  Florida  conference.  Not  being 
acquainted  with  the  other  conferences  of  the  Southern  States,  I  am 


ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY  97 

I 
prone  to  believe,  from  the  short  experience  that  I  had  in  Florida,  that 
perhaps  the  Florida  conference  is  one  of  the  choicest  conferences  of  the 
Southern  States.  I  bring  to  you  the  greetings  of  the  Saints  in  Florida, 
and  I  can  speak  of  them  as  Saints.  The  majority  of  those  who  are 
members  of  the  Church  are  devoted  in  their  service  to  the  Lord.  I  have 
felt  that  it  is  one  of  the  greatest  opportunities  that  has  come  into  my 
life  to  be  privileged  to  become  renewed  in  the  spirit  of  proclamation, 
even  the  proclamation  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ;  to  feel  the  mis- 
sionary spirit;  to  feel  the  spirit  of  testimony;  to  be  associated  with  young- 
men  in  the  Florida  conference.  I  believe  that  ten  short-term  mission- 
aries were  appointed  to  labor  in  that  conference.  Choice  as  they  are; 
splendid  as  are  their  influence,  the  spirit  they  manifest  and  the  testimony 
which  they  bear,  yet,  the  greatest  impression  came  to  me  with  the 
wonderful  work  that  is  being  done  by  young  men.  Those  young  men 
seemed  as  dear  to  me,  almost,  as  my  blood  kindred — true,  clean,  whole- 
some, sweet,  living  so  that  the  Lord  could  speak  through  them ; 
living  so  that  he  did  speak  through  them,  speaking  in  the  power  and 
demonstration  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  They  are  accomplishing  a 
great  and  a  mighty  work.  It  has  been  a  joy  to  me  to  sleep  with  them, 
to  talk  with  them,  to  pray  with  them,  to  feel  their  spirits.  I  cannot 
conceive  of  anything  that  could  bring,  and  that  does  bring,  in  my 
belief,  greater  strength  to  the  Church  than  for  young  men,  clean  in 
mind  and  clean  in  body,  to  discover  really  what  this  work  is  and  what 
the  power  of  the  Priesthood  is.  It  was  like  a  renewal;  in  fact,  it 
brought  me  back  immediately  to  the  experiences  of  years  gone  by. 
I  speak  of  Florida  frequently  as  of  Holland.  I  don't  know  why  it 
should  be,  after  a  lapse  of  twenty-five  years,  that  when  I  speak  I  should 
mix  the  names  of  Holland  and  Florida,  only  for  the  same  spirit  of 
testimony  which  is  discovered. 

I  do  not  know  what  particular  good  I  was  able  to  accomplish  for 
any  other  than  for  myself,  but  it  was  worth  more  than  it  cost  me  in 
time  and  in  money  just  to  have  the  feeling  and  the  experience. 

A  week  ago  yesterday,  Brother  Worley  asked  me  if  I  would 
perform  a  ceremony  of  baptism,  and  it  was  my  privilege  to  walk  out 
into  the  clear  waters  of  one  of  the  streams.  Six  people  were  led  out 
into  those  waters  to  make  covenant  with  the  Lord.  I  had  one  of  the 
real  experiences  of  my  life.  I  baptized  three  children  that  were  children 
of  members  and  one  man  and  two  of  his  children.  It  seemed  just  like 
other  experiences  that  I  have  had  in  the  Church  as  I  baptized  those 
children;  but  when  I  put  that  man  a  little  deeper  into  the  water  and 
when  I  raised  my  hand  to  high  heaven  and  called  him  by  name,  I 
realized  who  I  was,  just  a  weak  man,  and  then  when  I  spoke  the 
words :  -"Having  been  commissioned  of  Jesus  Christ,"  my  soul  thrilled, 
and  I  felt,  perhaps  as  I  have  never  felt  before,  what  it  meant  to  be  able 
to  say:  "Having  been  commissioned  of  Jesus  Christ,  I  baptize  you 
in  the  name  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost." 
When  that  man  was  buried  in  the  water  and  he  came  forth,  and  after 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

the  confirmation,  he  gathered  me  into  his  arms — a  larger  man  than 
I  am,  having  heard  the  gospel  for  seventeen  years  of  his  life  and 
never  having  been  brought,  as  he  said,  to  a  full  understanding  of  what 
he  had  lost,  what  he  was  permitting  to  pass  by ;  then  to  have  two  of  his 
children  go  down  with  him  into  the  waters  of  baptism ;  and  as  he 
closed  me  in  his  arms  he  said :  "Oh,  my  brother,  now  do  not  forget  me 
after  all  these  days,  when  I  accept  the  truth  with  an  honest  heart." 
He  had  laid  away  his  tobacco,  he  had  understood  fully  what  it  meant 
to  part  with  one-tenth  of  his  income  annually,  he  said :  "Remember 
me  and  my  little  family,  that  I  shall  have  the  faith,  the  support  and  the 
prayers  of  the  Saints  and  of  you,  that  I  shall  be  true  henceforth  and 
forever." 

I  do  remember  them !  I  do  pray  for  them,  because  out  in  this 
world  of  unbelief,  in  this  period  when  men  doubt  the  divinity  of  Jesus 
Christ,  to  find  an  honest  soul  who,  through  repentance  and  through 
baptism,  has  his  sins  washed  away  and  who,  through  the  laying  on  of 
hands,  does  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and  testifies  of  a 
surety  that  he  knows  that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the 
Son  of  the  living  God ;  that  he  who  was  dead  now  lives  and  lives  forever- 
more,  and  has  established  his  Church  and  commissioned  men  to  pro- 
claim this  everlasting  gospel  and  to  testify  of  him,  of  the  establishment 
of  the  Church,  and  to  point  the  way  of  salvation  to  those  who  will 
hear  and  believe,  the  privilege  is  choice,  the  blessing  is  great  to  have 
the  opportunity  to  go  and  deliver  this  message.  I  thank  the  Lord  for 
the  opportunity.  I  pray  that  it  shall  be  appreciated.  I  do  not  believe 
that  it  needs  men  as  old  as  I  am  or  older ;  it  needs  vigor ;  it  needs 
strength;  it  needs  testimony;  it  needs  those  who  are  prepared  to  offer 
sacrifices.  From  the  beginning  I  have  seen  those  who  have  come  in.  I 
call  to  mind  one  brother  when  he  came  in,  one  of  the  short-term  mission- 
aries, who  said :  "I  am  ready  to  go  back.  I  have  not  been  able  to  do 
much.  I  have  given  what  I  had,  all  the  strength  that  is  in  me,  but  I 
have  not  had  much  strength."  I  believe  that  it  is  worth  the  strength, 
the  physical  strength,  the  ability,  the  time  and  all  that  any  man  can  give, 
to  go  out  and  renew  his  spirit,  and  cry  repentance;  testify  of  the 
divinity  of  this  work,  and  receive  a  renewal  of  his  testimony,  a  renewal 
of  the  desire  to  bring  souls  unto  God.  When  I  think  of  Brother 
Roscoe  H.  Paramore,  I  shall  remember  him  forever;  I  shall  think  of 
him  as  one  in  whom  the  promise  may  possibly  be  fulfilled.  I  did  not 
bring  him  the  gospel  first ;  oh  no !  I  have  said  that  he  has  heard  it 
for  seventeen  years,  but  he  has  joined  the  Church.  I  expect,  if  I  am 
true,  and  if  he  is  true,  which  I  believe  he  will  be,  to  have  joy  with  him 
forevermore,  for  it  is  the  promise  of  the  Lord. 

I  bear  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  of  the  divinity 
of  this  work.  It  is  of  the  Lord.  The  greatest  manifestations,  I  have 
said,  is  in  these  young  men  standing  up.  I  think  of  one  of  them.  The 
Saints  told  me  when  he  came  out  he  had  not  had  much  experience. 


ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY  99 

Some  of  the  elders  told  me  of  him.  When  I  went  down  into  his 
field,  I  said:  "My  brother,  do  you  have  any  honest  investigators  in 
this  section  who  are  listening  to  your  testimony?"  He  said:  "Come 
with  me,  my  brother,  and  visit  some  of  them.  I  believe  they  are 
honest."  At  the  close  of  a  meeting,  we  went  to  the  home  of  one 
investigator.  When  I  came  away,  one  investigator  stood  up,  and  as 
he  grasped  my  hand  he  said :  "Brother  Hinckley,  you  will  not  take 
this  elder  away  from  me,  you  are  not  going  to  replace  him,  are  your" 
"Why  not?"  "Oh,  he  has  brought  us  the  truth.  As  he  has  come  into 
our  home,  opened  the  scriptures,  reasoned  with  us,  and  borne  testimony 
of  the  gospel,  he  has  brought  more  joy  into  our  home  than  any  man 
who  has  ever  visited  us.  Leave  him  here  with  us."  I  walked  out  and 
I  said  to  one  of  the  elders.  "Have  you  ever  worked  with  this  elder 
before?"  "Yes,  Brother  Hinckley,  when  he  first  came  out  here  I  stood 
with  him  on  the  streets.  He  had  not  had  much  experience.  As  he  stood 
on  the  street,  his  hands  trembled  so  that  he  could  hardly  read  a  hymn 
that  they  were  going  to  sing."  Yet  he  stood  there,  notwithstanding  his 
weakness,  notwithstanding  his  fear;  and  he  said,  "As  I  watched  his 
knees  tremble  and  listened,  to  his  weak  words,  I  thought,  'oh,  that  he 
had  had  some  training  before  he  came  here.'  "  That  was  an  elder's 
testimony  regarding  this  weak  elder.  Sure  he  was  weak,  but  what  has 
he  done  ?  He  has  followed  the  instructions  of  President  Callis ;  he  has 
risen  early  in  the  morning  and  in  the  early  morning  hours,  after  prayer, 
he  has  read  the  scriptures ;  he  has  prayed  with  his  companions ;  he 
has  studied  diligently  for  two  years ;  and  after  two  years  of  prayer,  two 
years  of  study,  two  years  of  testimony,  as  I  said  to  my  folks,  speaking 
of  him  yesterday,  he  is  sweet  and  clean,  and,  excepting  perhaps  one 
elder,  there  is  not  another  that  will  be  missed  as  he  will  be  missed  when 
the  servants  of  God  say :  "Honorably  released  to  return  home."  He 
has  gone  into  the  homes,  knowing  the  truth,  testifying  of  it,  living  it, 
exemplifying  it  every  day ;  and  before  he  comes  home  I  feel  certain 
that  the  Lord  will  permit  him,  even  while  there,  to  see  the  fruits  of  his 
labors,  for  I  believe  that  the  man  who  grasped  me  by  the  hand,  saying 
"Take  him  not  away,  for  he  has  come  to  us  with  a  message  that  has 
brought  more  joy  into  our  home  than  any  other  message  that  has  been 
given  unto  us,"  will  become  a  member  of  the  Church.  What  is  he 
waiting  for?  Because  that  same  brother  said:  "Not  yet;  clean,  free 
from  tobacco,  free  from  liquor,  understanding  that  the  gospel  is  a  gospel 
for  which  you  shall  sacrifice;  and  then  when  you  accept  it,  you  shail 
receive  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  shall  lead  you  into  all  truth  forever." 
God  grant  that  he  may  be  permitted  to  see  the  fruits ;  God  grant  that 
we  may  exemplify  in  our  lives  our  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  work, 
henceforth  and  forever,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 


President  'Heber  J.  Grant  announced  that  the  congregation  would 
sing  the  hymn,  "Though  deepening  trials  throng  your  way,"  music 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

of  which  was  written  by  Elder  George  Careless,  now  eighty-seven  years 
of  age  and  present  on  the  stand. 

After  singing  by  the  congregation,  Elder  John  B.  Beckstrand, 
president  of  the  Millard  stake  of  Zion,  offered  the  closing  prayer;  and 
the  conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided,  and  promptly  at  2  o'clock 
opened  the  meeting  by  announcing  that  the  choir  would  sing,  "Guide 
us,  O  thou  great  Jehovah." 

After  the  singing  by  the  choir,  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Roy 
A.  Welker,  president  of  the  Bear  Lake  stake  of  Zion. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Prayer  is  the  soul's  sincere 
desire." 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

THE  ANCIENT  PROPHET'S   SPECIFICATION 

It  is  specified  by  one  of  the  ancient  prophets  that  "In  the  last 
days  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  the  mountain  of  the  house  of  the  Lord 
shall  be  established  in  the  top  of  the  mountains,  and  it  shall  be  exalted 
above  the  hills ;  and  people  shall  flow  unto  it.  And  many  nations  shall 
come  and  say:  Come,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain  of  the  Lord, 
and  to  the  house  of  the  God  of  Jacob ;  and  he  will  teach  us  of  his  ways, 
and  we  will. walk  in  his  paths."  (Micah  4:1,2) 

A    FEW    EVENTS    SHOWING    JOSEPH    SMITH    DIVINELY    GUIDED 

Let  us  look  at  a  few  events  in  the  history  of  the  Latter-day  Saints' 
Church  and  see  if  these  satisfy  the  specifications  contained  in  this 
ancient  prediction. 

At  the  age  of  fourteen  Joseph  Smith  became  seriously  interested 
in  matters  religious.  In  accordance  with  instructions  which  he  found 
in  holy  writ,  he  concluded  to  "ask  of  God  that  giveth  to  all  men  liberally 
and  upbraideth  not."  From  that  very  hour,  as  we  believe,  until  the 
early  age  of  thirty-nine  when  he  gave  his  life  as  a  martyr,  Joseph  Smith 
was  guided  by  Divine  Providence  in  the  establishment  of  the  Church 
and  the  direction  of  its  affairs. 

TEMPLE  BUILDING 

For  example,  how,  without  divine  guidance,  could  one  so  young 
and  with  so  little  chance  for  education  have  been  wise  enough  to 
inaugurate  the  movement  in  temple-building  that  has  aroused  the  in- 
terest of  so  many  for  so  long  a  time?  In  less  than  a  hundred  years  the 
followers   of   Joseph   Smith   have   invested  millions   in   nine   different, 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN  101 

splendid  temples.     The  path  these  faithful  followers  have  trodden  has 
had  temples  constructed  beside  it  all  along  the  way. 

While  the  people  after  leaving  New  York  located  temporarily  in 
Ohio,  the  inspiration  of  the  Prophet  seemed  to  indicate  that  Zion  was 
to  be  established  somewhere  far  away  in  the  west.  In  June,  1831,  he 
sent  many  of  the  elders  westward  on  a  preaching  tour.  The  questions 
being  asked  by  him  and  his  associates  were :  "When  will  the  wilderness 
be  made  to  blossom  as  the  rose?  When  and  where  will  Zion  be  built 
in  her  glory,  and  where  will  the  temple  be  located,  unto  which,  in  the 
last  days,  people  from  all  nations  are  to  come?" 

IN  INDEPENDENCE 

The  Prophet,  Oliver  Cowdery  and  other  missionaries,  met  at  Inde- 
pendence, Missouri  about  the  middle  of  July,  1831.  This  land  seemed 
so  far  west  that  they  immediately  located  the  city  of  Zion,  the  cenrtal 
gathering  place  of  the  Saints.  Such  was  the  intensity  of  the  desire  to 
locate  a  site  and  build  a  temple  that  under  the  inspiration  of  the  spirit, 
Independence  was  chosen  for  this  purpose.  The  lot  then  selected  and 
dedicated  is  a  spot  on  which  the  L.  D.  S.  people  hope,  sometime,  to 
erect  a  sacred  building.  By  this  act  the  people  felt  as  if  their  Zion  had 
been  located  and  dedicated  on  the  western  borderline  of  civilization. 

The  twelve  hundred  Church  members  in  Missouri,  in  1833,  were 
being  increased  rapidly  by  immigration.  By  mob  violence  these  twelve 
hundred  were  driven  from  their  homes  and  robbed  of  their  possessions. 

While  these  hardships  and  cruelties  were  severe,  may  not  they, 
viewed  in  the  light  of  more  recent  events,  have  been  necessary  in  order 
to  prepare  a  people  strong  enough  and  far-sighted  enough  to  make  the 
journey  of  a  thousand  miles  across  the  desert  and  climb  into  the  very 
top  of  the  Rocky  Mountains?  Nothing  less  than  years  of  severest 
training  and  discipline  could  prepare  a  people  for  such  a  task. 

The  temple  block  in  Independence  had  been  dedicated  in  1831.  In 
December,  1832,  through  the  Prophet,  a  direct  command  was  given  to 
"establish  a  house,  even  a  house  of  prayer,  a  house  of  fasting,  a  house 
of  faith,  a  house  of  learning,  a  house  of  glory,  a  house  of  order,  a 
house  of  God."  (D.  &  C.  88:119)  The  temple-building  spinT  rested 
so  mightily  upon  the  Prophet  that  the  cornerstones  of  the  temple  in 
Kirtland  were  laid  in  July,  1833,  and  the  building  was  finished  and 
dedicated  in  March,  1836. 

While  in  this  sacred  structure  there  occurred  rich  outpourings  of 
the  spirit  and  many  important  heavenly  manifestations,  this  temple  was 
eventually  abandoned.  It  did  not  satisfy  the  specifications  named  by 
the  ancient  prophet  who  clearly  said  that  the  temple  to  be  built  "in  the 
last  days,"  was  to  be  established  in  the  top  of  the  mountains  and  was 
to  be  exalted  above  the  hills. 

IN   FAR  WEST 

Those  who  are  familiar  with  the  history  of  the  Church  know  that 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

the  temple-building  spirit  has  been  active  in  the  hearts  of  this  people 
from  the  beginning.  Among  the  many  sects  and  churches  of  today  the 
Latter-day  Saints  are  distinguished  as  builders  of  temples. 

On  the  Nation's  birthday,  in  1838,  large  numbers  of  church  members 
participated  in  a  Church  celebration  at  Far  West,  Missouri,  which  in- 
cluded the  laying  of  the  foundation  stones  of  a  temple.  Had  this 
structure  been  completed  the  number  of  temples  built  by  the  Latter- 
day  Saint  people  to  date  would  have  been  ten  instead  of  nine. 

IN  ILLINOIS 

The  training  and  preparation  of  this  people  for  the  work  they 
were  to  accomplish  continued  to  increase  in  severity.  They  were  told 
in  unmistakable  terms  they  must  leave  the  state  of  Missouri.  Stripped 
of  the  accumulation  of  years  many  suffered  with  the  cold  and  for  the 
necessities  of  life.  They  stood  facing  a  mid-winter  exodus  not  knowing 
where  to  go.  At  this  trying  time  the  Prophet  himself  was  in  prison. 
Brigham  Young,  however,  with  his  strong  leadership  came  forward  as 
President  of  the  Council  of  Twelve  and  planned  and  carried  into  effect 
the  exodus  from  Missouri  to  Illinois.  On  the  1st  of  May,  1839,  it  was 
decided  to  locate  the  headquarters  of  the  Church  at  the  town  of  Com- 
merce in  the  state  of  Illinois.  A  year  later  this  name  was  changed  to 
Nauvoo. 

.Soon  the  construction  of  dwellings  was  begun,  and  in  the  course 
of  a  comparatively  short  time  a  hamlet  was  transformed  into  a  city. 

Prisons,  mobs,  persecutions,  hunger  and  other  hardships  failed  to 
dampen  the  temple-building  ardor  of  the  members  of  the  Church.  At 
a  conference  held  on  the  6th  of  April,  1841,  the  cornerstones  of  the 
Nauvoo  temple  were  laid.  On  the  27th  of  June,  1844,  while  this  struc- 
ture was  in  the  process  of  construction,  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  his 
brother  Hyrum  gave  their  lives  as  martyrs  to  the  cause  which,  under 
divine  guidance,  they  had  instituted.  Would  one  not  naturally  con- 
clude that  this  peculiar  people  would  lose  interest  in  their  peculiar  work 
of  building  temples  with  these  great  leaders  slain?  But  new  leaders 
arose  and  the  work  continued  going  forward  as  we  believe  under  the 
direction  of  Divine  Providence.  Actual  labor  was  resumed  within  two 
weeks  after  the  slaying  of  the  Prophet. 

There  were  indications  of  persecution  on  every  hand  when  the 
capstone  of  the  Nauvoo  temple  was  laid  on  the  24th  of  May,  1845. 
Not  until  May,  1846,  was  the  building  wholly  completed  and  ready  for 
dedication.  Nauvoo  by  this  time  had  a  population  of  twenty  thousand. 
Could  anything  less  than  divine  inspiration  induce  these  builders  to 
struggle  on  in  the  midst  of  poverty  and  persecution  and  thus  carry  out 
their  ever-increasing  desire  to  construct  a  temple? 

Feeble  efforts  were  made  in  the  fall  of  1844  to  bring  to  justice 
the  murderers  of  the  Prophet.  In  the  fall  of  1845  encouraged  by  the 
acquittal  of  the  slayers  of  the  Prophet,  mobs  became  more  and  more 
bold  and  more  and  more  vicious. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN  103 

When  the  people  had  to  decide  between  exodus  and  extermination 
by  massacre,  they  concluded  to  leave  the  state.  Is  it  possible  that  this 
people  still  needed  a  more  severe,  a  more  trying  training? 

Although  the  exodus  of  the  people  had  begun,  ordinance  work 
in  the  temple  was  continued.  In  a  few  months  after  its  dedication 
"the  people  whose  energy  and  substance,  whose  sweat  and  blood  had 
been  spent  in  its  rearing,  were  driven  into  the  wilderness  or  slain." 
The  temple  was  in  the  possession  of  a  mob.  Fire  and  wind  finally 
destroyed  it.  So  complete  has  been  its  destruction  that  literally  not  one 
stone  is  left  upon  another. 

The  people  had  dedicated  a  temple  site  in  Independence,  they  had 
constructed  a  temple  in  Kirtland,  the  foundation  of  a  third  had  been  laid 
in  Far  West,  and  a  fourth  had  been  built  in  Nauvoo.  Not  one  of 
these,  however,  satisfied  the  specifications  of  the  scripture.  The  temple 
to  be  constructed  "in  the  last  days"  is  not  to  be  located  on  the  seashore 
nor  in  the  valley  nor  on  the  bank  of  a  river,  but  "in  the  top  of  the 
mountains,"  and  it  is  to  be  "exalted  above  the  hills." 

To  these  people  who  were  being  driven,  robbed  and  persecuted, 
the  following  words  of  the  Master  gave  great  satisfaction:  "Blessed 
are  ye,  when  men  shall  revile  you,  and  persecute  you,  and  shall  say  all 
manner  of  evil  against  you  falsly,  for  my  sake.  Rejoice,  and  be  exceeding 
glad,  for  great  is  your  reward  in  heaven."    (Matt.  5  :11,  12.) 

Perhaps  no  one  can  tell  why  in  the  wisdom  of  Providence,  these 
severe  experiences  were  necessary.  Now  the  people,  however,  were 
thoroughly  prepared.  They  were  ready.  They  had  their  faces  set  like 
flint  toward  the  west. 

THE  HISTORIC  JOURNEY 

While  Nauvoo  was  less  than  seven  years  old,  it  now  had  twenty 
thousand  inhabitants.  These  were  compelled  to  leave  their  homes  and 
journey  far  beyond  the  confines  of  civilization.  It  was  in  mid-winter, 
February  4,  1846,  that  this  multitude  began  crossing  the  waters  of  the 
Mississippi.  Ferries  were  used  until  the  river  was  frozen.  After  that 
the  crossing  was  made  on  the  ice.  With  their  sick,  sleeping  in  tents  and 
wagons,  great  harships  were  necessarily  endured.  "There  is  no  parallel 
in  the  world's  history,"  says  Bancroft,  "of  this  migration  from  Nauvoo." 
(Whitney's  History  of  Utah,  page  217.) 

"The  people  of  Iowa  have  told  me,"  said  Colonel  Thomas  L.  Kane, 
"that  from  morning  to  night  they  passed  westward  like  an  endless 
procession.  They  did  not  seem  greatly  out  of  heart,  they  said ;  but 
at  the  top  of  every  hill,  before  they  disappeared  they  were  to  be  seen 
looking  back,  like  banished  Moors,  on  their  abandoned  homes  and  far- 
seen  temple  and  its  glittering  spires."  (See  Anderson's  Brief  History  of 
the  Church,  page  82.) 

On  the  14th  of  January,  1847,  President  Young  announced  instruc- 
tions to  guide  the  Saints  in  their  travels.  Early  preparations  were  made 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

to  vacate  Winter  Quarters  and  depart  for  their  unknown  inheritance 
in  the  wilderness. 

One  hundred  forty-four  men,  able  bodied,  were  selected  to  lead 
on  this  westward  journey.  Because  of  illness  one  returned  to  camp 
leaving  the  number  of  one  hundred  forty-three  with  three  women  and 
two  children.  They  had  seventy-two  wagons,  ninety-three  horses,  fifty- 
two  mules,  sixty-six  oxen,  and  nineteen  cows,  besides  seventeen  dogs 
and  some  chickens.  (See  Anderson's  Brief  History  of  the  Church, 
page  90.) 

This  historic  journey  was  begun  April  7,  1847.  All  of  April 
passed,  May  also,  and  still  the  Pioneers  continued  their  journey  onward 
across  the  American  desert.  June  went  by  as  did  also  nearly  all  of 
July,  and  yet  they  with  their  oxen  and  slowly  moving  teams  wended 
their  way  westward,  climbing  the  eastern  slope  of  the  Rocky  Moun- 
tains, higher  and  higher,  and  higher,  to  the  very  place  that  answers 
the  specifications  prescribed  by  the  Prophet  anciently.  Who  will  deny 
that  such  a  journey  made  under  such  conditions  was  directed  by  the 
power  of  God  ? 

THE  TEMPLE  IN    SALT  LAKE   CITY 

The  long  and  trying  trip  seems  to  have  increased  rather  than  to 
have  diminished  the  interest  of  the  people  in  temple  building. 
From  the  day  the  cornerstones  were  laid  for  the  Salt  Lake  temple 
until  it  was  dedicated,  forty  years  elapsed. 

The  death  of  the  great  temple-builder,  Brigham  Young,  occurred 
when  the  walls  of  the  Salt  Lake  temple  extended  but  twenty  feet  above 
the  surface  of  the  ground.  The  work  so  well  begun  by  him  was  con- 
tinued during  the  whole  administration  of  President  John  Taylor  and 
the  intensity  of  the  effort  seemed  to  increase  during  the  administration  of 
his  successor,  President  Wilford  Woodruff  up  to  the  very  hour  when 
it  was  dedicated,  April  6,  1893.  The  capstone  of  the  mighty  struc- 
ture was  laid  by  him  in  the  presence  of  a  throng  that  numbered  forty- 
thousand  within  the  confines  of  the  temple  block,  while  other  thousands, 
unable  to  secure  a  place  inside  the  walls,  stood  in  the  streets  or  looked 
from  nearby  windows  and  the  roofs  of  adjoining  buildings. 

THE  SPECIFICATIONS  OF  THE  ANCIENT  PROPHET  FULFILLED 

The  edifice  completed  stands  on  this  block.  It  speaks  for  itself. 
It  is  located  in  the  top  of  the  mountains.  It  is  exalted  above  the 
hills  and  people  from  all  nations  have  come  unto  it.  Thus  the  specifica- 
tions laid  down  by  the  prophet  of  old  are  satisfied,  his  prophecy  fulfilled. ' 

These  are  the  days,  too,  in  which,  as  Daniel  says,  "the  God  of 
heaven  shall  set  up  a  kingdom  which  shall  never  be  destroyed."  That 
kingdom  is  located  here,  and  in  the  language  of  Daniel,  "it  shall  not 
be  left  to  other  people,  and  it  shall  endure  forever."  This  is  the  place, 
this  is  the  kingdom,  and  Jesus  of  Nazareth  is  the  King. 


ELDER  HUGO  D.  E.  PETERSON  105 

ELDER  HUGO  D.  E.  PETERSON 

Former  President  of  the  Swedish  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  feel  on  this  occasion  like  the  young 
brother  did  this  morning,  when  called  so  suddenly  and  without  warning 
to  speak  unto  you.  I  appreciate  this  opportunity  that  has  been  given 
to  me  to  speak  a  few  minutes  about  the  Swedish  mission,  whence  so 
many  thousands  of  the  blood  of  Israel  have  been  gathered  home  to  Zion. 
I  appreciate  the  privilege  that  my  brethren  gave  unto  me  to  perform 
a  mission  to  my  native  land,  after  having  been  in  Zion  since  my  youth. 
It  was  the  most  glorious  time  that  I  have  ever  experienced  in  my  life. 

I  will  say,  as  President  McMurrin  said  this  morning,  that  we 
cannot  count  very  many  that  come  into  the  Church ;  but  the  word  has  to 
.be  preached  as  a  warning,  that  the  people  may  not  say  they  have  not 
been  warned  when  the  Lord  shall  pour  out  his  judgments  on  them. 

The  people  in  Sweden  have  the  spirit  of  gathering  to  Zion.  While 
the  elders  discourage  them  from  coming  out  here,  we  cannot  stop  them 
from  coming.  Their  desire  is  to  gather  with  their  own  people.  I  have 
in  mind  a  certain  intelligent,  well  educated  young  lady,  who  embraced 
the  gospel  less  than  two  years  ago.  She  holds  a  prominent  position 
in  one  of  the  greatest  establishments  in  the  city  of  Stockholm,  and  is 
drawing  a  large  salary.  She  said,  "I  am  going  to  try  to  go  out  to 
Zion."  My  wife  discouraged  her  and  said,  "Do  not  go,  sister.  You  will 
probably  not  get  such  a  position  there  as  you  have  now,  and  you  might 
become  discouraged."  She  said:  "Never  mind  what  I  may  get.  I  will 
do  any  honorable  work  that  may  be  offered  me  for  my  support,  but 
I  want  to  go  home  to  Zion,  that  I  may  work  in  the  temple  of  the 
Lord  for  my  dead  relatives."  And  that  is  the  spirit  that  the  people 
generally  are  in  possession  of  in  the  far  north. 

I,  too,  can  testify  that  we  have  a  lot  of  fine  missionaries  in  that 
mission,  and  especially  when  they  get  the  spirit  of  the  work.  They 
want  to  labor  early  and  late  for  this  cause.  I  had  frequently  to  remind 
one  young  man  who  labors  in  the  mission  office  that,  "You  cannot  do 
it  all  today,  leave  something  for  tomorrow."  I  found  him  at  his  desk 
many  a  night  after  we  had  held  our  public  meeting.  Another  young 
man  who  had  not  learned  the  language  of  his  father  and  mother,  being 
born  in  this  city,  was  sent  up  into  the  northern  part  of  Sweden.  While 
laboring  in  a  certain 'city,  a  preacher  advertised  that  he  would  lecture 
about  the  "Mormons"  in  Utah.  Our  young  man  had  not  been  in 
Sweden  very  many  months,  and  had  not  yet  mastered  the  language; 
but  he  went  to  the  church  to  hear  what  the  reverend  gentleman  might 
have  to  say.  After  the  meeting  he  said  to  the  priest,  "What  you  have 
spoken  here  tonight  is  not  true.  I  am  from  Utah,  was  born  there,  and 
am  therefore  thoroughly  cognizant  of  the  conditions  out  there.  I 
would  like  to  be  given  a  few  minutes  to  correct  what  you  have  said." 
The  gentleman  replied,  "We  will  not  permit  you  to  speak  here  in  this 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

building."  "Very  well,"  said  the  young  man,  "I  will  take  the  op- 
portunity of  speaking  to  the  people  on  the  street  outside;  I  will  give 
them  tracts,  and  invite  them  to  come  to  our  hall,  and  I  will  there  tell 
them  the  truth  about  Utah."  The  reverend  gentleman  evidently  got 
frightened.  He  published  an  article  in  the  local  paper  against  us,  and 
tried  to  belittle  the  elder  who  had  taken  him  to  task  for  telling  fables 
about  the  Utah  people  and  their  religion,  saying  that  the  elder  could 
not  speak  the  Swedish  language  fluently.  Our  young  brother  wrote 
to  me  and  said  that  he  would  like  to  answer  the  preacher's  effusion, 
but,  said  he,  "I  am  afraid  the  editor  will  find  out  that  my  written 
language  is  faultier  than  the  language  I  speak."  I  helped  him  to  write 
an  article  for  the  local  paper,  and  told  him  he  could  use  it  if  he  saw  fit. 
He  took  it  to  the  paper,  however,  and  the  editor  was  liberal-minded 
enough  to  publish  it.  Shortly  afterwards  the  minister  left  the  city,  and 
our  little  hall  there  was  for  some  time  crowded  with  people  who  wanted 
to  hear  our  side.  I  have  learned  that  where  we  have  opposition 
it  is  the  best  advertisement  we  can  get  for  our  Church,  as  the  people 
want  to  find  out  the  other  side,  and  they  come  to  our  meetings  to 
investigate  for  themselves.  In  that  way  we  have  now  and  then  the 
pleasure  of  baptizing  a  number  of  people. 

One  thing  that  has  rested  on  my  mind  for  years  is  this:  It  was 
ninety  years  ago  the  day  before  yesterday  that  the  Lord,  also  Moses, 
Elias  and  Elijah,  visited  the  Prophet' Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery 
in  the  Kirtland  temple,  and  gave  unto  them  all  the  keys  that  were 
necessary  for  establishing  his  Church  and  carrying  out  the  work  for 
the  salvation  of  man  in  this  last  dispensation.  After  they  had  re- 
ceived the  keys,  these  words  were  spoken  to  them : 

"Beheld,  the  time  has  fully  come,  which  was  spoken  of  by  the  mouth  of 
Malachi — testifying  that  he  [Elijah]  should  be  sent,  before  the  great  and 
dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  come,  to  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children, 
and  the  children  to  the  fathers,  lest  the  whole  earth  be  smitten  with  a  curse. 
Therefore,  the  keys  of  this  dispensation  are  committed  into  your  hands ;  and 
by  this  ye  may  know  that  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  is  near, 
even  at  the  doors." 

The  application  I  wish  to  make  is  this,  that  we  are  ninety  years 
nearer  the  culmination  of  the  event  spoken  of  in  the  revelation,  namely : 
the  second  coming  of  the  Lord,  and  that  we  should  warn  the  people  and 
our  children,  that  all  may  be  prepared  to  receive  him.  It  behooves 
us  as  parents  to  look  after  our  children,  our  sons  and  daughters,  that 
the  Lord  has  given  into  our  care,  and  to  teach  them  the  principles  of, 
and  inculcate  in  their  hearts  a  love  for,  the  gospel.  That  is  a  duty 
resting  upon  us ;  and  I  would  say  to  the  young  people :  Follow  in  the 
footsteps  of  your  fathers  and  mothers,  for  the  world  has  nothing  to  give 
you  that  can  be  compared  with  the  joy  and  satisfaction  we  feel  when 
we  live  in  accordance  with  the  teachings  of  the  Church ;  the  joy  that 
we  have  in  the  knowledge  of  the  truth  of  the  gospel  and  in  the  knowl- 


ELDER  HUGO  D.  E.  PETERSON  107 

I 
edge  that  we  have  prophets  and  apostles  in  our  midst  to  lead  and  guide 
us  aright.    There  is  nothing  else  in  the  world  that  can  give  us  that  joy. 

Sometimes  it  happens  that  young  people  do  not  watch  their  actions, 
and  they  overstep  the  bounds  of  propriety,  causing  them  to  feel 
the  pangs  of  sorrow  and  regret.  My  attention  was  drawn  to-  an 
instance  or  two  of  that  kind,  and  when  appealed  to,  I  felt  compassion 
for  them,  realizing  that  they  have  lived  in  an  environment  almost  the 
opposite  of  that  in  which  our  youths  are  reared.  On  such  occasions 
I  have  thought  how  fortunate  are  my  five  daughters  and  four  sons, 
in  being  born  here  in  a  different  atmosphere,  blessed  with  faith  in  the 
gospel  and  from  their  childhood  having  a  chance  to  walk  in  the  right 
path.  Our  mission  is  to  save,  and  I  have  felt  a  happiness  beyond  my 
power  to  express  in  seeing  those  who  have  made  a  misstep  mend  their 
way,  making  their  lives  conform  to  the  teachings  of  the  Savior.  They 
have  paid  their  tithing,  attended  to  their  meetings  and  done  their 
duties  in  the  Church ;  and  they  have  thus  felt  happy.  I  am  satisfied 
they  will  not  permit  themselves  again  to  be  led  astray. 

The  Summer  season  is  before  us,  brethren  and  sisters,  when  we  will 
go  to  the  canyons,  the  woods,  the  bathing  and  other  resorts.  See 
to  it  that  our  children  are  warned  before  they  go  out.  Pray  with  them. 
I  heard,  many  years  ago,  a  good  brother  speak  of  a  man  whose  son 
had  been  called  to  go  on  a  mission,  and  how  that  son  had  spent  the 
whole  night  with  his  father  occupied  in  conversation,  the  father  warning 
the  son  against  making  mistakes,  giving  him  encouragement,  that  he 
might  be  able  to  perform  an  honorable  mission.  I  believe  we  should 
take  our  boys  in  our  arms  before  the  time  comes  when  we  are  to  part 
with  them,  and  warn  them  of  certain  things  that  will  confront  them 
when  they  come  to  a  certain  age,  that  we  may  come  in  before  our 
enemies  do,  who  whisper  evil  into  their  ears,  and  that  we  may  warn 
them  of  things  that  may  happen  to  them  if  they  are  not  careful. 

I  rejoice  in  this  gospel,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  I  have  been 
reared  by  honorable  parents,  and  I  have  thanked  the  Lord  hundreds  of 
times  on  my  knees  that  he  led  the  elders  to  their  door  when  I  was 
young,  so  that  I  had  an  opportunity  to  be  trained  in  the  teachings  of  the 
gospel ;  and  I  wish  to  continue  to  do  good  as  long  as  the  Lord  gives  me 
strength  and  permits  me  to  live  upon  the  earth,  that  I  may  eventually 
be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  the  Lord.  May  that  be  the  blessing  to  us 
all,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Do  what  is  right,  let  the  consequence 
follow." 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  my  membership  in  this  great 
Church,  the  Church  of  Christ.  I  shall  never  have  the  power  to  express 
fully  my  gratitude  to  the  good  men  who  left  the  valleys  of  the  mountains 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

and  came  into  far  distant  Scandinavia  and  brought  the  gospel  to  my 
mother,  to  me  and  to  mine.  The  gift  of  that  visit  is  beyond  earthly  ex- 
pression. While  Brother  Peterson  was  speaking  to  us  this  afternoon, 
having  returned  from  one  of  the  Scandinavian  countries,  my  heart  was 
filled  with  gratitude,  and  with  the  prayer  that  the  time  may  never 
come  when  we  ishall  lack  the  courage  to  go  forth  among  the  nations 
of  the  earth  to  preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Thousands  of  men 
and  women  in  the  Scandinavian  countries  are  ready  and  ripened  for  the 
greater  truth,  and  I  pray,  in  behalf  of  the  people  whose  blood  runs 
in  my  veins,  that  ways  and  means  may  be  found  continually  to  do 
missionary  work  in  those  countries  until  the  truly  honest  in  heart  may 
be  brought  to  a  testimony  of  the  truth  of  the  gospel. 

IMPORTANCE  OF   THE  BODY 

I  have  rejoiced  also  in  the  proceedings  of  this  great  conference. 
I  was  deeply  impressed  yesterday  by  the  voice  of  authority  with  which 
President  Grant  spoke  to  us  about  a  number  of  important  topics.  I 
was  happy  to  hear  him  mention  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  the  tremendous 
importance  of  caring  properly  for  the  human  body.  Man  is  an  eternal 
spirit  inhabiting  a  body  of  this  earth,  a  perishable  body,  which  some 
day  we  believe  will  be  made  imperishable.  By  means  of  that  body, 
given  by  our  Father  in  heaven,  we  are  able  to  accomplish  the  great 
mission  known  as  earth  life.  Through  the  body  the  spirit  speaks,  and 
through  the  body  the  experiences  of  earth  are  made  the  possession  of 
the  spirit.  It  is  well  that  we  give  due  care  and  consideration  to  the 
welfare  of  the  body,  which  is  the  one  great  characteristic  of  this  epoch 
in  our  eternal  journey. 

A    STRONG    BODY    PERMITS    SPIRITUAL    STRENGTH 

There  have  been  times  in  the  history  of  the  world  when  the  doc- 
trine has  been  taught  that  spiritual  strength  may  best  be  known  if  the 
body  is  weak;  and  that  the  weaker  the  body  the  stronger  may  be  the 
spiritual  experiences  of  life.  Latter-day  Saints  have  no  such  belief. 
We  believe  that  in  a  strong,  healthy  body  the  spirit  may  do  more  ef- 
fectively and  efficiently  the  work  which  it  is  called  upon  to  do  here 
upon  earth.  It  is  a  duty  of  Latter-day  Saints  to  live  well.  We  all 
agree  to  that.  But  it  is  important  to  Latter-day  Saints  also  to  live 
long  upon  the  earth,  just  as  long  as  the  Lord  may  permit  us  to  live. 
We  take  no  pride  in  disease.  We  take  pride  only  in  those  things  which 
build  us  and  make  us  strong  both  in  body  and' in  spirit. 

TWO  LAWS  OF  HEALTH 

As  I  have  learned  to  understand  the  laws  that  govern  our  body,  it 
seems  that  one  fundamental  law  in  preserving  human  bodies  is  the 
law  of  moderation.  All  things  must  be  done  in  wisdom.  No  unneces- 
sary strain  must  be  put  upon  the  body,  nor  must  indolence  seize  upon 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WWTSOE  109 

us.  A  second  great  law  for  the  preservation  of  bodily 
health,  including  the  needs  of  both  mind  and  body,  is  that 
all  the  faculties  of  man  must  be  given  due  and  proportionate 
exercise.  The  mind  must  be  used  and  the  body  must  be  used,  neither 
to  excess  nor  to  the  exclusion  of  the  other ;  otherwise,  we  shall  not  attain 
to  that  fulness  of  perfection  of  life  on  earth  which  we  believe  is  the 
right  of  all  Latter-day  Saints. 

THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM  A  BINDING  LAW 

The  Lord,  as  was  called  to  our  attention  yesterday  by  President 
Grant,  has  given  us  a  series  of  principles,  laws  if  you  choose,  specific 
in  their  nature,  which  may  be  used  safely  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  for 
the  preservation  of  physical  and  mental  health.  I  refer  to  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  a  great  and  a  marvelous  document,  given  us  for  our  good, 
itself  a  witness  that  in  the  economy  of  the  Lord  the  care  of  the  body 
is  very  important,  not  to  be  neglected  or  forgotten.  I  know  that  many 
people  believe  that  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  not  a  binding  law  upon  us. 
To  that  view,  I  can  only  answer  that  yesterday  I  heard  the  prophet  of 
God — I  believe  and  know  him  to  be  a  prophet  of  God — say  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  that  it  was  their  duty  to  obey  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
That  ought  to  be  sufficient  for  all  Latter-day  Saints.  But,  we  find  that 
from  the  very  beginning,  the  Word  of  Wisdom  has  been  held  to  be 
a  binding  law  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints.  The  Patriarch  Hyrum 
Smith,  brother  of  the  Prophet,  in  a  sermon  which  has  been  preserved 
and  reproduced  a  number  of  times,  warned  the  people  of  that  day,  about 
1843,  against  following  any  elder  of  the  Church  who  declared  that 
the  Word  of  Wisdom  was  not  binding  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
Brigham  Young,  the  great  successor  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
upon  many  occasions  urged  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  obey  the  Word  of 
Wisdom;  and  at  least  on  one  occasion  said  definitely  that  the  Spirit 
had  directed  him  to  tell  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  obey  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  If  I  read  the  revelation  on  the  Word  of  Wisdom  correctly, 
I  find  that  it  says  that  the  Word  of  Wisdom  shows  "forth  the  order 
and  will  of  God  in  the  temporal  salvation"  of  his  people.  Whatever 
is  the  will  of  God  appears  to  me  to  be  equivalent  to  a  commandment. 

THE    WARNINGS    OF    THE    WORD    OF    WISDOM 

The  Word  of  Wisdom  contains  certain  very  important  warnings. 
It  declares  that  alcohol,  tobacco,  tea  and  coffee  are  not  good  for  the 
body.  The  revelation  says  "hot  drinks,"  but  before  the  revelation  was  a 
year  old,  "hot  drinks"  were  defined  to  include  tea  and  coffee.  Those 
who  read  the  revelation  intelligently  understand  that  it  has  reference 
to  all  drugs  or  substances  that  act  upon  the  human  body  to  produce  a 
constant  desire  for  them.  All  habit-forming  substances  are  included. 
Perhaps  right  here  is  one  reason  why  we  quibble  about  the  meaning  of 
the  Word  of  Wisdom.  When  a  taste  is  begotten,  a  habit  is  established, 
or  when  our  appetites  are  concerned,  almost  every  one  of  us  is  in- 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

clined  to  quibble  just  a  little  so  that  we  may  satisfy  that  appetite.  The 
fact  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  spoke  of  alcohol,  tobacco,  tea,  coffee 
and  similar  substances  as  injurious  to  the  body  and  handicaps  in  the 
journey  of  life,  is  an  evidence  of  the  divine  inspiration  of  the  latter-day 
prophet,  for  the  physiological  value  of  these  substances  was  not  known 
in  that  early  day.  Only  after  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  did 
the  world  of  science  establish  the  fact  that  these  substances  act  in- 
juriously upon  the  human  organism. 

WHAT    TO    EAT 

The  Lord  seldom  says  "thou  shalt  not"  without  declaring  also 
what  we  shall  do.  Therefore,  the  Lord  prescribed  in  this  revelation 
the  foods  that  man  may  eat  safely :  meat  in  moderation,  grain,  vege- 
tables "in  the  season  thereof,"  and  fruits  "in  the  season  thereof." 
Perhaps,  were  we  more  careful  to  obey  the  part  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
that  deals  with  the  "do's"  it  might  be  easier  to  obey  the  "don't's,"  and 
thereby  be  able  more  easily  to  conquer  our  appetites  for  the  forbidden 
things.  The  more  completely  the  body  is  able  to  function  as  intended 
by  nature,  the  better  control  man  has  over  himself  and  less  desire  he  has 
for  stimulants  and  for  all  things   injurious. 

MODERN    KNOWLEDGE  CONFORMS  TO  THE   WORD  OF  WISDOM 

It  is  probably  common  knowledge  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that 
during  the  last  fifteen  to  twenty  years,  the  science  of  nutrition,  the 
science  of  eating,  has  been  developed  greatly  by  those  who  make  re- 
searches into  this  branch  of  knowledge.  The  old  learning  has  been  laid 
aside ;  and  some  very  remarkable  discoveries  have  enabled  a  new  science 
of  nutrition  to  be  built  up  which  is  becoming  very  generally  understood. 
That  new  science  of  nutrition  is  built  largely  upon  the  doctrine  that 
human  beings  must  use  meat  in  moderation,  must  use  the  grains  as 
nature  provided  them,  that  vegetables  must  be  eaten  freely  in  the  season 
thereof,  which  often  means  as  they  come  from  mother  earth ;  that 
fruits  must  be  eaten  in  larger  abundance  than  before — all  practical  ap- 
plications of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  given  in  1833,  long  before  the 
science  of  nutrition  or  of  physiological  chemistry  had  been  developed. 

One  of  the  teachers  in  the  summer  school  of  the  Utah  Agricultural 
College,  during  the  last  two  years,  was  Dr.  E.  V.  McCullom,  a  leader 
in  this  field,  who  has  done  outstanding  work  in  the  domain  of  modern 
nutrition.  On  the  last  day  of  the  Summer  term,  Dr.  McCullom  devoted 
a  part  of  his  closing  lecture  to  a  discussion  of  the  fact  that  the  "Mormon" 
Word  of  Wisdom  coincided  very  well,  indeed  almost  perfectly,  with  the 
doctrine  which  he  had  been  elaborating  in  detail  to  his  students  through- 
out the  preceding  six  weeks.  It  brought  gratitude  to  my  heart,  when 
my  children  and  some  of  my  friends  reported  that  this  man  bore  such 
a  testimony  to  the  authoritative  teaching  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE  111 

WE  SHOULD  USE  ALL  KNOWLEDGE 

What  we  eat  is  of  tremendous  importance.  We  possess  not  only 
wisdom  of  men,  but  also  wisdom  from  heaven,  all  of  which  we  should 
use  for  our  welfare.  We  should  be  anxious  to  secure  and  use  all  learn- 
ing that  may  yet  be  developed.  It  should  be  our  ideal  to  make  and 
keep  our  bodies  just  as  perfect  as  possible ;  that  our  lives  may  be 
extended  as  long  as  possible;  so  that  we  may  accomplish  as  much  as 
may  be  possible  during  our  earth  careers. 

AN    EXAMPLE    OF    THE   IMPORTANCE    OF    CORRECT    FOODS 

Last  November,  when  I  was  in  Washington,  I  had  the  oppor- 
tunity to  look  into  the  new  nutrition  of  which  the  (Prophet  spoke  a 
long  time  ago.  I  went  to  Baltimore  and  into  the  laboratory  main- 
tained by  one  of  the  great  foundations  in  this  country.  There,  those 
in  charge,  to  show  the  thorough  going  effect  of  food  on  the  body, 
took  two  rats,  one  fed  improper  food,  the  other,  food  conforming  to  our 
new  knowledge,  both  classes  of  foods  in  common  use.  The  rats  were 
chloroformed  before  our  eyes,  and  opened,  and  their  bones  treated  with 
a  stain,  placed  under  the  microscope.  The  bony  tissue  of  the  rat  which 
had  been  fed  correctly  was  normally  developed;  while  the  tissue  of 
the  rat  which  had  been  fed  improperly  was  imperfectly  developed  and 
diseased.  This  is  but  one  of  the  hundreds  of  illustrations  that  might  be 
used  to  verify  the  truth  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

CONCLUSION 

I  have  taken  the  liberty  of  offering  these  reflections  upon  the  very 
authoritative  and  emphatic  teaching  of  our  President  yesterday ;  and 
to  call  your  attention,  not  in  detail,  for  this  is  not  a  scientific  lecture, 
to  the  importance  of  our  obeying  in  detail  all  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
We  must  refrain  from  the  things  forbidden;  but  we  must  also  obey 
the  teachings  with  respect  to  that  which  we  should  do.  Already  it  has 
become  evident  that  one  of  the  great  revelations  given  to  man  for  his 
good  is  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  also  that  it  is  one  of  the  great 
evidences  of  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph. 

May  God  bless  us  and  be  with  us.  May  we  fully  understand  the 
greatness  and  the  grandeur  and  the  mighty  possibilities  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  endless  in  their  nature  and  for  our  good,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

i 

ELDER  JOHN  S.  HANSEN 

Former  President  of  the  Danish  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  feel  very  weak  and  embarrassed  in 
standing  before  you  this  afternoon;  but  as  I  have  been  called  upon 
to  say  a  few  words  about  the  work  in  Denmark,  I  will  do  so. 

I  stand  before  you  and  look  over  these  many  faces  with  a  feeling 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

of  fear,  but  also  with  happiness — fear  that  I  may  not  be  able  to 
talk  to  you  so  that  you  can  understand  what  I  say.  But  when  I 
think  of  all  these  many  people  who  are  here1  today  and  of  the  same 
faith  that  I  am,  belonging  to  the  same  Church,  believing  the  same 
doctrines  that  I  have  been  taught  and  believe  in,  and  have  been 
trying  to  teach  to  others,  then,  a  feeling  of  happiness  goes  through 
me;  and  I  ask  the  Lord  to  be  with  me  during  the  few  minutes  I 
stand  before  you  that  I  may  be  able  to  give  an  account  of  myself. 

I  came  home  three  weeks  ago  today  from  my  mission  in  Den- 
mark, where  I  have  labored  three  years,  and  have  enjoyed  my  work. 
It  was  my  second  mission  to  Denmark.  I  was  there  in  1912  to  1914, 
and  as  I  was  twenty  years  old  when  I  emigrated,  and  at  that  time 
could  not  speak  a  word  of  English,  you  will  understand  that  I  am 
better  able  now  to  speak  Danish  than  English.  I  hope  that  you  will 
be  able  to  understand  me,  although  in  the  last  three  years  I  have 
been  preaching  and  talking  mainly  in  my  native  tongue. 

Denmark  is  a  little  country  belonging  to  the  Scandinavian 
group.  Its  population  is  a  little  more  than  three  million  people. 
It  is  a  good  country,  and  the  people  are  a  good  people,  and  it  is  a 
pleasure  to  labor  among  them.  We  have  had  a  number  of  good 
brethren  from  Zion  to  help  out  in  our,  missionary  work  during  the 
last  three  years.  When  I  arrived,  conditions  were  different  from 
what  they  are  now.  A  long  period  had  elapsed;  in  which  very  few 
elders  from  Zion  had  been  laboring  in  that  country,  and  there  were 
only  six  elders  there  when  I  arrived.  Most  of  the  branches  were 
disorganized.  When  I  left,  there  were  twenty-five  missionaries  in 
the  field  doing  good  work,  and  the  branches  were  fully  organized. 
Most  of  the  elders  that  were  sent  to  that  country  while  I  was  there 
were  young  men  unable  to  speak  the  language,  and  it  took  a  great 
deal  of  work  with  them  to  help  them  learn  the  language  and  place 
them  so  that  they  could  be  of  use  while  learning  it.  But  I  must  say 
that  the  great  majority  of  them  have  been  very  diligent  and  have 
learned  the  language  quickly,  and  have  been  able  to  do  a  good  work, 
;:nd  we  have  seen  good  results  from  our  labors,  many  having  joined 
the  Church  during  this  time.  The  prospects  are  good  for  the 
future.  I 

I  realize  that  I  am  speaking  to  people  who  represent  the  Church 
from  the  different  wards  and  stakes.  The  Danish  as  well  as  the 
other  missions  needs  missionaries,  men  of  liberal  experience  in  life, 
and  with  the  language  that  they  learn  there  they  will  be  able  to  do 
a  great  work.  There  are  many  people  in  that  land  who  are  of  the 
biood  of  Israel,  and  I  feel  sure  many  will  embrace  the  gospel  in  the 
near  future.  But  the  gospel  must  be  brought  to  them,  and  it  must 
be  preached  to  them  in,  a  language  and  in  a  way  they  can  under- 
stand, because  they  are  surrounded  with  so  many  different  in- 
fluences, all  trying  to  work  with  them  and  upon  them. 


ELDER  JOHN  S.  HANSEN  113 

Denmark  has  complete,  religious  liberty.  Anyone  can  advocate 
or  preach  anything  that  he  desires  to  preach.  They  had  there  rep- 
resentatives from  India  preaching  Buddhism  and  other  "isms." 
Spiritualists,  Christian  Scientists,  International  Bible  Students, 
Seventh  Day  Adventists,  and  all  these  different  sects,  are  preaching 
their  doctrines,  and  many  people  do  not  know  what  to  believe,  and 
they  come  to  the  conclusion  that  it  is  better  to  leave  it  all  alone, 
"Mormonism"  included.  And  we  cannot  blame  them.  The  way  to 
teach  them  is  to  present  the  truth  in  such  a  way  that  it  will  reach 
their  hearts  and  make  an  impression  upon  their  souls.  In  order  to 
do  that,  we  must  understand  the  condition  of  the  people  and  the 
teachings  they  have  been  taught  and  have  received  from  different 
sources.  ' 

A  number  of  the  sects  to  which  I  have  referred  do  not  believe, 
in  the  literal  resurrection  of  Christ.  They  do  not  believe  in  the 
resurrection  of  the  body,  and  a  literal  resurrection  is  one  of  our 
testimonies  to  the  people.  We  have  been  trying  to  confine  our 
remarks  to  bearing  testimony  to  the  truth  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  as  it  has  been  revealed  to  us  in  these  latter  days,  telling 
them  of  the  true  and  living  God,  a  personal  God,  our  Father  in 
heaven,  who  has  a  body,  and  who  can  show  himself,  and  can  talk 
to  us  and  be  with  us.  Also  of  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  that,  he  is 
literally  resurrected  with  the  body  in  which  he  walked  and  talked 
while  upon  the  earth.  Sometimes  in  our  meetings,  when  we  have 
borne  testimony  to  these  truths  as  we  understand  them,  people 
have  come  to  us  and  said :  "These  are  things  that  we  used  to 
believe  in  when  we  were  children,  but  now  we  do  not  know  what 
to  think,  because  our  ministers  and  all  these  other  advocates  of 
religion  have  confused  our  minds  upon  the  question  as  to  whether 
or  not  man  will  be  literally  resurrected.'' 

Ministers  of  the  state  church  of  Denmark  have  come  forward 
with  the  teaching  that  the  resurrection  of  Christ  was  a  spiritual 
resurrection,  and  that  it  was  a  vision  the  apostles  saw  when  they 
met  him  and  talked  to  him  after  his  resurrection,  and  also  that  our 
resurrection  will  be  a  spiritual  resurrection.  If  we  understand  the 
people  and  preach  the  truth  to  them,  we  will  find  that  the  truth  will 
appeal  to  them  in  many  ways,  and  it  will  make  an  impression  upon 
them.  We  have  found  that  the  best  way  of  succeeding  and  getting 
access  to  the  hearts  of  the  people  is  by  talking  to  them  from  the 
point  of  view  that  they  now  have,  in  order  that  they  may  understand 
us  better  than  if  we  were  to  talk  over  their  heads.  I  find  that  little 
children  understand  the  teachings  of  our  Church  with  reference  to 
God  much  better  than  the  grown  people.  In  our  Sunday  school 
classes  we  can  explain  to  little  children  the  personality  of  God, 
and  it  seeims  natural  to  them.  The  people  say  to  us,  "When  we  were 
.children  we  believed  in  such  a  God.    When  our  fathers  and  mothers 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

i 
talked  to  us  about  God,  we  pictured  him  as  a  personal  God,  some- 
what like  our  earthly  father.  It  was  when  we.  grew  older  that  our 
views  became  confused  with  these  different  ideas  that -are  now  in 
the  world."  What  we  have  to  do  is  to  bring  the  people  back  to  the 
faith  of  their  childhood,  for  there  is  not  a  child  but  has  that  im- 
pression and  that  feeling  concerning  God,  and  understanding  of 
him  when  they  first  hear  him  spoken  of  by  their  parents. 

When  I  went  to  school  in  that  country  I  was  taught  the  state 
religion,  but  my  feelings  and  understanding  of  God  were  of  a  per- 
sonal God;  and  when  I  was  eleven  years  old  and  joined  the  "Mor- 
mon" Church,  I  kept  that  view  and  that  idea  of  God,  which  I  think 
is  true.    We  have  been  trying  to  teach  these  doctrines  to  the  people. 

Yesterday  was  Easter.  Today  is  also  a  holiday  in  those  old 
countries,  being  a  day  appointed  for  Church  services  where  they 
celebrate  the  resurrection  of  Christ.  It  is  strange  to  think  that  these 
people  will  congregate  and  talk  about  the  great  and  glorious  truth 
of  Christ's  having  risen  from  the  dead,  and  not  believe  that  it  was 
a  literal  resurrection.  But  when  they  read  the  gospel  of  St.  John 
about  Christ  coming  out  of  the  grave,  and  the  grave  being  empty, 
they  explain  it  by  saying  it  was  a  spiritual  resurrection.  When  we 
hold  our  Easter  services,  we  bear  witness  to  the  people  of  the  truth 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ ;  that  he  arose  from  the  dead ;  that  he 
did  take  the  body  with  him  out  of  the  grave  which  was  laid  in  the 
grave ;  that  he  showed  himself  to  his  disciples ;  showed  them  the 
marks  in  his  hands  and  in  his  feet,  and  that  he  said  to  them,  "It 
is  I,  myself :  handle  me  and  see ;  for  a  spirit  hath  not  flesh  and  bones,  as 
ye  see  me  have."  We  believe  also,  and  have  taught  it  to  the  people, 
that  all  those  who  shall  come  forth  in  the  first  resurrection  shall 
come  forth  with  the  bodies  which  they  received  here  upon  the  earth, 
glorified  and  free  from  evil,  and  free  from  the  results  of  sin,  which, 
through  the  gospel  of  Christ,  we  will  be  able  to  efface.  That  is 
why  the  teachings  referred  to  by  Elder  Widtsoe  are  natural  to  us. 
They  fit  this  body  which  we  possess  and  which. we  have  received 
as  a  gift  from  God  for  our  spirit  to  work  with  eternally.  This  body 
is  going  to  be  ours  throughout  eternity.  We  must  take  care  of  it, 
because  if  we  do  so  and  use  it  properly,  it  will  be  so  much)  the 
better  for  us  in  the  resurrection. 

I  believe  that  the  people  in  the  world  are  able  to  accept  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  in  a  great  measure,  if  they  are  presented  to 
them  in  a  way  that  they  can  understand  and  grasp.  I  have  found 
many  times,  and  I  hope  I  will  not  offend  anyone  by  saying  it,  that 
our  missionaries  are  a  little  too  quick  to  judge  people,  or  judge  their 
capacity  to  understand,  and  they  judge  them  from  their  own  point 
of  view,  instead  of  the  point  of  view  of  the  people.  If  it  is  the  truth 
that  we  bring  tq  the  people,  if  it  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
if  the  Lord  intends  us  to  bring  it  to  them,  then  it  is  our  duty  to 


ELDER  JOHN  S.  HANSEN  115 

work  diligently  in  that  service,  and  not  to  give  up  because  things 
seem  to  be  difficult,  or  because  people  do  not  seem  to  understand. 
Maybe  the  difficulty  is  that  we  do  not  present  it  in  a  way  that  they 
can  understand  it,  and  if  that  is  the  case,  then  let  us  try  to  find  a 
way  to  reach  their  hearts  and  their  souls,  and  present  it  so  they  can 
grasp  it  and  understand  it.  If  we  cannot  do  it  one  way,  possibly 
we  can  do  it  in  another.  I  have  never  turned  away  angrily  from 
anybody  who  could  not  understand  me,  or  who  ridiculed  my  views. 
But  I  have  always  said,  "We  will  meet  again ;  we  will  talk  it  over 
again ;  maybe  we  will  be  able  to  get  closer  together  on  this  point." 

It  is  a  mistake,  as  some  have  done  occasionally,  to  say  to  the 
person  who  will  not  understand,  or  cannot  understand,  "You  are 
cursed.  I  have  borne  my  testimony  to  you  and  you  do  not  receive 
it,  consequently  you  are  cursed.''  I  have  always  instructed  the 
missionaries  not  to  do  that,  and  have  told  them  that  we  are  in  the 
world  to  bless  and  save  the  world  and  not  to  condemn  it.  We  have 
been  trying  to  preach  and  teach  salvation  and  not  condemnation, 
and  trying  to  explain  to  the  people  that  the  gospel  is  in  the  world 
to  build  up  and  save  the  people.  In  preaching  the  gospel  of  salva- 
tion, we  find  that  we  are  greatly  blessed  and  the  Lord  is  with  us. 
Our  converts  have  not  been  so  many  in  numbers,  but  we  have  been 
able  to  bring  into  the  Church  a  number  of  good,  honest  souls  while 
I  have  been  in  Denmark  during  the  past  three  years.  In  addition, 
we  have  been  able  to  find  and  get  interested  in  the  work  of  the 
Church  a  number  of  people  who  were  practically  dead ;  who  for 
years  have  not  been  visited  by  the  missionaries,  and  who  had 
forgotten  that  they  were  members  of  the  Church ;  but  who  have 
come  back  again  to  the  Church  and  have  taken  up  the  work  again. 
They  have  commenced  again  to  pay  their  tithing,  attend  their  meet- 
ings, and  labor  in  the  organizations;  and  we  look  upon  this  as 
being  as  great  a  work  as  the  bringing  of  new  converts  into  the  fold. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  that  the  time  is  limited,  as  there 
are  many  others  of  our  brethren  from  whom  you  wish  to  hear.  But 
I  wish,  before  I  sit  clown,  being  the  first  time  I  have  had  the  priv- 
ilege to  stand  in  this  place,  to  bear  to  you  my  testimony  of  the  truth 
of  the  restored  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  love  it.  I  have  tried  to  do 
my  duty  as  far  as  I  have  been  able  to  see  it,  and  as  far  as  my  busi- 
ness has  allowed  me  to  fulfil  it.  I  pray  the  Lord  to  be  with  me  in 
the  future,  that  I  may  continue  in  this  good  work,  and  that  we  may 
all  continue  to  do  the  Lord's  will;  and  may  God  help  us,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.    Amen. 

ELDER  ALBERT  R.  PETERSON 

Former  President  of  fixe  Norwegian  Mission 
This  is  one  of  the  great  honors  that  has  been  bestowed  upon  me. 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

It  is  the  first  time  in  my  life  that  I  have  occupied  this  stand,  and  I  feel 
it  a  great  honor  and  privilege  to  bear  my.  testimony  to  you  this  after- 
noon to  the  truth  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  which  has  been  restored. 
I  am  thankful  that  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  raising  a  warning 
voice  to  the  nations,  and  in  the  land  of  Norway,  to  the  people  in  the 
far  north,  declaring  unto  them  that  the  Lord  has  restored  the  gospel 
in  these  the  latter  days. 

I  was  indeed  pleased  when  I  heard  the  President  speak  regarding 
the  Word  of  Wisdom,  for  I  found  it  very  necessary  when  I  went  into 
the  mission  field  to  preach  this  glorious  principle  to  the  world.  It 
is  a  great  responsibility  which  rests  upon  us  as  teachers  and  leaders 
in  Israel.  As  I  traveled  around  in  the  branches  in  Norway  I  saw 
fathers  and  mothers  with  their  children  smoking  cigarettes ;  and  I 
saw  in  these  children  the  future  fathers  and  mothers ;  and  I  thought, 
what  will  be  the  end  if  they  continue  to  poison  and  contaminate  their 
souls  with  this  dreadful  weed?  I  found  a  condition  that  made  my  heart 
ache !  Out  of  the  many  honest,  true  Latter-day  Saints,  in  the  mission 
I  found  only  very  few  who  are  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  Is  it 
not  necessary  that  we  as  elders  in  Israel,  when  we  go  into  the  world, 
set  worthy  examples  for  these  boys  and  girls,  honest  and  true,  living  in 
those  countries  who  do  not,  perhaps,  understand  the  great  necessity 
of  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom  as  we  do?  Is  it  not  necessary  that  we 
lift  the  voice  of  warning  to  them  against  that  which  will  eventually 
destroy  them  if  they  continue  its  use? 

I  did  not  see  this  condition  in  Norway  alone,  but  also  in  other 
European  countries  that  I  visited — boys  and  girls  contaminating  their 
souls  with  these  things.  And  I  feel  to  rejoice,  and  thank  my  Father 
in  heaven,  that  my  parents  had  the  courage  to  join  the  Church  and 
accept  these  great  principles  in  Denmark  many  years  ago,  and  emigrate 
to  this  country.  As  I  traveled  among  my  relatives,  who  have  never 
understood  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  saw  them,  with  trembling 
hands,  pouring  alcohol  into  the  coffee,  I  thought  then,  O  how  glorious 
it  is  that  the  elders  in  this  day  are  sent  out  into  the  world  to  teach  us 
the  Word  of  Wisdom,  thus  to  make  us  better  men  and  women,  and  make 
us  stronger  physically  and  spiritually,  that  we  may  be  able  to  carry 
the  burdens  of  the  day. 

I  rejoice  in  the  privilege  of  being  a  member  of  this  great  Church, 
which  has  been  organized  and  is  costing  some  of  the  best  blood  on  earth 
to  establish.  We  all  realize  that  when  the  great  God  of  heaven  wishes  to 
do  anything  of  importance,  it  must  cost  the  blood  of  many  good  men 
and  women. 

When  I  was  set  apart  as  the  president  of  the  Norwegian  mission, 
I  was  told  that  I  was  denied  a  vise  to  Norway,  and  I  felt  very  sorry, 
and  also  felt  it  would  perhaps  be  impossible  for  me  to  enter  that  land. 
When  I  reached  Chicago,  I  received  permission  to  enter  Norway  and  to 
remain  there  for  two  weeks.  When  I  arrived,  I  went  to  the  police  station 


ELDER  ALBERT  R.  PETERSON  117 

where  I  was  to  report  ,and  asked  for  permission  to  remain,  which 
permission  was  denied  me.  I  went  again  the  next  day  with  the  same 
result.  The  officials  said  they  must  take  the  request  to  higher  authority. 
I  was  preparing  to  go  the  next  day,  and  while  putting  on  my  coat  and 
hat,  a  little  girl  was  in  one  of  the  rooms  pleading  with  God  that  we 
might  be  permitted  to  remain.  I  felt  within  my  soul  that  we  would 
not  be  permitted  to  remain.  She  knew  where  to  go.  She  had  con- 
fidence in  the  Lord.  She  had  been  taught  to  pray ;  and  even  as  the 
boy  prophet  went  into  the  woods  to  pray  and  had  confidence  that  God 
would  hear  and  answer  his  prayer,  this  little  girl  also  prayed  to  God. 
She  came  to  me  and  said,  "Papa,  I  know  we  are  going  to  remain, 
for  the  Lord  has  answered  my  prayer."  I  thought  then,  O,  if  we  only 
had  the  confidence  and  the  courage  of  little  children !  And  I  thought, 
too,  is  it  any  wonder  that  the  Lord  placed  before  his  disciples  a  little 
child  and  said,  "Unless  ye  become  as  a  little  child  ye  cannot  enter  into 
the  kingdom  of  God." 

It  was  mentioned  here  yesterday  by  President  Ivins  that  we  are  not 
considered  Christians,  that  we  are  heathens,  in  Norway.  That  is  a  fact 
They  consider  us  heathens  and  not  as  Christians,  and  I  believe  that 
was  the  only  excuse  they  had  whereby  they  could  keep  us  from  entering 
Norway.  It  is  a  free  country,  free  for  the  Christian  religion,  but  it  is 
not  free  for  those  who  are  not  Christians ;  in  their  opinion  we  are  not 
Christians,  therefore  they  have  been  using  an  old  law,  sixty-five  years 
old,  to  keep  us  out  of  Norway.  We  do  not  have  any  persecution 
from  the  people  on  the  whole,  but  we  do  meet  with  persecution  from 
those  in  authority — the  government  officials  and  the  city  officials.  One 
young  elder  was  driven  from  four  cities.  He  said,  "O,  I  will  be  glad 
when  I  can  find  a  place  that  I  can  call  home  for  at  least  two  or  three 
nights."  The  ministers  write  articles  occasionally  in  the  papers  against 
us;  but  they  do  not  seem  to  do  us  a  great  deal  of  harm.  I  remember  that 
one  of  the  great  ministers  there  said,  "I  am  not  going  to  let  down  the  bars 
now,  and  let  those  swine  in  here!"  It  was  not  long  after  he  made  this 
remark  until  the  Lord  saw  fit  to  call  him  away.  Men  cannot  stop  the 
work  of  the  Lord  until  he  may  see  fit  to  stop  it  himself. 

There  are  many  honest  souls  in  Norway  who  are  waiting  to  hear 
the  gospel.  The  doors  have  been  practically  closed  against  our  mis- 
sionaries and  our  elders,  and  we  have  had  a  hard  time  getting  in,  but 
there  are  a  few  there  now  and  I  want  to  say  to  the  fathers  and  mothers 
of  those  boys,  that  your  boys  who  have  been  sent  to  Norway  are  honest, 
true  workers  in  Israel,  clean  and  pure. 

One  little  item  I  wish  to  make  mention  of  is  this:  Be  sure, 
fathers  and  mothers  that  you  teach  your  boys  to  pray.  O  how  humiliat- 
ing it  was  to  one  young  man  when  he  came  into  the  mission  field,  and  I 
asked  him  to  pray.  He  said :  "I  have  never  uttered  a  prayer  in  my  life." 
Who  was  to  blame  ?  Let  us  teach  our  children  to  pray,  to  live  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  There  is  not  anything  that  will  bring  us  such  great 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

blessings  as  living  the  gospel.  It  will  make  us  better  men  and  women. 
I  know  the  gospel  is  true.  I  have  felt  the  nearness  of  God 
in  far-off  Norway,  away  up  in  the  Narvik  branch,  the  farthest 
north  of  any  branch  in  the  Church.  Nestled  in  those  snow-capped 
mountains,  we  find  a  little  branch  of  honest,  true  Lattei  -day  Saints  who 
are  living  the  gospel.  I  am  glad  that  I  had  the  privilege  of  bearing 
my  testimony  and  warning  them,  for  it  is  the  only  hope  of  the  nations 
today — that  is,  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  May  we  know  and  realize 
who  we  are;  that  we  are  the  chosen  people  of  God;  that  we  have 
been  called  and  endowed  with  the  holy  Priesthood  of  God ;  and  that 
we  may  always  stand  firm  and  in  holy  places,  and  be  ready  at  all 
times  to  go  into  the  world  to  warn  the  nations,  and  to  let  them  know 
that  God  has  spoken  in  these  the  latter  days,  and  that  his  great  work 
is  rolling  on.  May  the  Lord  help  us  to  be  true  and  firm  to  these 
principles,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

In  speaking  yesterday  of  the  missionary  work  that  is  being  done 
throughout  the  world,  although  I  had  a  note  about  it  on  a  piece  of 
paper  in  front  of  me,  I  forgot  to  mention  what  I  consider  one  of  the 
greatest  of  all  the  missions  we  have,  namely,  the  one  on  the  Temple 
Block,  presided  over  by  Elders  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Benjamin  Goddard, 
and  Axel  A.  Madsen,  aided  by  a  number  of  faithful  workers. 

The  work  which  they  are  doing  in  allaying  prejudice  and  in 
making  the  acquaintance  of  influential  people,  I  feel  is  among  the  very 
finest  missionary  labors  performed  in  any  of  our  missions. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Lord,  dismiss  us  with  thy  blessing." 
Prayer  was   offered   by   Elder   George    S.    Romney,  president  of 
the  Fremont  stake. 

The  conference  adjourned  until   10  o'clock  a.  m.,  April  6. 

In  the  evening  there  was  a  general  priesthood  meeting,  which  was 
the  largest  priesthood  assembly  ever  held  in  the  Church,  there  being 
3,207  people  present.  The  ground  floor  was  comfortably  filled  and  there 
were  many  in  the  galleries,  opened  for  the  first  time  at  a  priesthood 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  SESSION 

On  Tuesday  morning  at  10  o'clock,  April  6,  1926,  with  President 
Heber  J.  Grant  presiding,  the  conference  continued  in  the  great 
Tabernacle. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Come  let  us  anew  our  journey 
pursue." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Milton  H.  Welling,  president  of  the 
Bear  River  stake. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Jesus  once  of  humble  birth." 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

The  last  congregational  hymn  that  we  sang  brought  to  my  mind 
great  events  in  the  life  of  our  Redeemer  and  events  dealing  with  the 
last  week  of  his  ministry  when,  after  having  partaken  of  the  usual 
passover  feast  and  before  his  departure  for  the  Garden  of  Gethsemane, 
he  instituted  the  Sacrament,  which  we  call  the  Lord's  Supper.  "Jesus 
took  bread,  and  blessed  it,  and  brake  it,  and  gave  it  to  the  disciples, 
and  said,  Take,  eat;  this  is  my  body."  (Matthew  26:26.)  And  after 
each  disciple  had  partaken  of  this  bread,  "He  took  the  cup,  and  gave 
thanks,  and  gave  it  to  them,  saying,  Drink  ye  all  of  it ;  For  this  is  my 
blood."  (Matthew  26 :27,  28.)  And  he  told  them  that  as  often  as  they 
should  meet  together  they  should  do  this  in  remembrance  of  him.  Our 
Savior  left  no  Church  ritual,  nor  did  he  outline  in  detail  the  proceedings 
that  his  followers  should  adopt  for  their  meetings.  He  gave  them  no 
sermon  and  no  form  of  worship  distinctive  from  that  which  they  had 
been  accustomed  to  in  the  synagogues ;  but  he  did  leave  that  one  def- 
inite thought:  that  as  often  as  they  should  meet  together  they  should 
partake  of  the  bread  and  wine  in  remembrance  of  his  body  and  blood 
and  of  his  death  and  sufferings,  and  this  they  should  do  until  he  should 
come  again. 

I  wonder  why  it  is  that,  with  such  definite  instructions  from  our 
Lord  and  Master  the  day  before  he  was  crucified,  these  words  have 
not  so  sunk  into  the  hearts  of  Latter-day  Saints  that  they  should  feel 
afraid  to  neglect  the  Sacramental  service.  I  believe  it  is  one  of  the 
most  solemn  occasions  in  the  Church,  the  time  when  a  Latter-day  Saint 
sits  in  silence  in  a  place  of  worship  and  partakes  of  the  Sacrament 
of  the  Lord's  Supper. 

It  has  been  my  privilege  to  visit  several  of  the  stakes  of  Zion 
recently  and  to  see  the  marvelous  development  of  the  Priesthood  work 
of  the  Church.     I  have  listened  to  powerful  testimonies  of  men  and 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

women  concerning  the  authority  of  the  holy  Priesthood  and  the  gifts  and 
blessings  that  have  come  to  those  who  hold  it,  through  obedience  to  the 
gospel.  I  have  listened  to  some  wonderful  singing  by  quorums  of  the 
Priesthood  and  other  organizations — young  men  and  boys.  It  has  made 
me  happy  because  I  believe  that  in  song  we  may  worship  the  Lord,  for 
he  has  said  that  the  song  of  the  righteous  is  a  prayer  unto  him,  and  he 
will  answer  with  blessings  upon  our  heads. 

In  one  stake  of  Zion  the  presidency  of  the  stake  announced  that  they 
had  decided  to  call  upon  every  active  and  useful  member  holding 
the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  to  aid  the  bishoprics;  each  one  of  these 
persons  to  have  assigned  to  him  some  neglectful  or  indifferent  boy, 
over  whom  he  will  watch  and  teach  the  gospel  and  try  to  implant  in 
his  heart  the  love  of  the  work  of  the  Lord  and  a  deeper  appreciation 
for  the  blessings  and  opportunities  that  come  to  him.  And  he  will  be 
taken  care  of  by  this  older  and  more  experienced  man  until  the  boy  can 
practically  walk  alone. 

What  a  wonderful  possibility  this  thought  opens  to  our  minds.  Take 
into  consideration  those  who  hold  presiding  positions  in  the  stake  alone 
and  consider  the  bishoprics  alone.  If  each  of  these  brethren  would  take 
upon  himself  to  be  a  brother's  keeper  to  one  of  these  indifferent  boys 
for  a  year  and  see  that  these  boys  are  trained  and  directed  in  the  right 
manner,  think  of  the  good  that  would  result.  There  are  in  the  stakes 
of  Zion  282  brethren  holding  the  office  of  presidency ;  there  are  94 
stake  clerks ;  there  are  1 ,400  high  councilors  and  alternates ;  200  patri- 
archs;  in  the  neighborhood  of  1,500  holding  offices  as  presidencies  of 
councils  of  seventies ;  500  quorums  of  elders,  each  quorum  presided 
over  by  three  men,  making  1,500  men;  then  there  are  nearly  3,000 
bishops  and  counselors.  If  each  of  these  brethren  made  it  his  duty  to  take, 
charge  of  one  wayward  or  neglectful  boy,  thousands  of  young  men 
would  be  on  the  road  to  improved  conditions  and  would  be  diverted 
from  paths  of  waywardness  and  neglect  to  a  better  understanding  and 
appreciation  of  the  gospel. 

Tithing  matters  have  been  touched  by  our  President,  and  in- 
cidentally by  two  or  three  other  speakers.  We  have  recently  had  a 
tithing  settlement,  and  the  tithes  of  the  Church  have  materially  in- 
creased. Crops  in  most  districts  have  been  bountiful,  and  some  of  our 
brethren  have  been  blessed  with  larger  incomes,  as  a  result  of  the  high 
prices  obtaining  for  certain  products.  The  Lord  has  blessed  this  land, 
and  he  has  done  so  because  it  is  occupied  by  his  people.  As  we  pay  our 
tithes  and  offerings  gladly  and  willingly,  as  a  part  of  our  service  to  the 
Lord,  so  will  he  bless  this  land.  What  was  once  a  barren  waste  is  now, 
a  marvel  to  those  who  travel  through  this  country. 

No  doubt,  during  this  tithing  settlement  that  has  recently  passed, 
many  of  our  brethren  and  sisters  went  happily  and  gladly  to  their 
bishoprics,  who  are  common  judges  in  Israel,  and  were  pleased  to  tell 
these  good  men  that  they  had  fully  observed  the  law  of  tithing.    Every 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS  121 

person  is  happy  when  he  fulfils  the  law  of  the  gospel.  Others,  no 
doubt,  went  to  the  tithing  settlement  feeling  more  or  less  conscience- 
stricken,  and  made  resolves  for  the  future,  that  they  would  more  dili- 
gently observe  this  important  law  and  would  try  to  pay  their  tithes  and 
offerings  in  the  season  thereof. 

I  appeal  to  my  brethren  and  sisters  not  to  leave  the  settlement  of 
their  tithing  until  the  end  of  the  year.  I  firmly  believe  in  the  idea 
of  paying  tithing  each  month.  Every  Latter-day  Saint  who  earns 
something,  whether  he  be  old  or  young,  rich  or  poor,  should  sit  down 
with  his  conscience  on  or  about  the  last  day  of  the  month  and  find 
out  what  the  Lord  has  given  him,  and  tithe  it  there  and  then.  So 
many  of  our  people  get  into  the  habit  of  leaving  the  payment  of  tithing 
until  the  end  of  the  year,  feeling  that  the  next  month  they  will  be 
better  off.  The  end  of  the  year  creeps  along,  settlement  comes,  and  then 
instead  of  seeing  how  much  we  owe  the  Lord  and  paying  it  gladly,  there 
is  a  tendency  to  see  how  little  we  can  get  off  with  and  ease  our  con- 
sciences. 

Tithing  is  a  fundamental  principle  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
To  those  who  observe  it  fully  there  comes  a  deeper  love  of  the  gospel. 
It  is  just  as  essential  to  our  growth  and  development  in  this  Church  as 
are  repentance,  baptism,  or  any  other  fundamental  laws.  It  will  develop 
in  men  and  women  a  deeper  devotion  to  the  truth  and  greater  willing- 
ness to  serve  their  fellowmen;  and,  above  all,  it  will  increase  their 
testimony  of  the  gospel. 

I  picked  up  an  old  Journal  of  Discourses  a  few  days  ago.  It  was 
forty  years  old.  I  opened  it  casually  and  found  there  a  very  fine  dis- 
course given  in  Provo,  in  1855,  by  Brother  Franklin  D.  Richards,  in 
which  he  urged  obedience  to  the  principle  of  tithing.  He  said :  "In  the 
receipt  which  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  gave  to  me  in  Nauvoo,  signed 
by  himself  and  the  tithing  clerk,  he  stated  that  having  paid  my  tithing 
in  full  to  date,  I  was  entitled  to  the  benefits  of  the  baptismal  font,  which 
had  just  been  dedicated  in  the  basement  of  the  temple."  So,  evidently 
in  those  days  it  was  understood  that  those  who  paid  their  tithing  in 
full  had  the  privilege  of  the  House  of  the  Lord.  Twenty  years  later 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  from  this  very  pulpit,  spoke  these  words : 

"By  the  principle  of  tithing  the  loyalty  of  the  people  of  this  Church  shall 
be  put  to  the  test.  By  this  principle  it  shall  be  known  who  is  for  the  kingdom 
of  God  and  who  is  against  it.  By  this  principle  it  shall  be  seen  whose  hearts 
are  set  on  doing  the  will  of  God  and  keeping  his  commandments,  thereby  sancti- 
fying the  land  of  Zion  unto  God ;  and  who  are  opposed  to  this  principle  and  have 
cut  themselves  off  from  the  blessings  of  Zion.  There  is  a  great  deal  of  im- 
portance connected  with  this  principle,  for  by  it  it  shall  be  known  whether  we  are 
faithful  or  unfaithful.  In  this  respect  it  is  as  essential  as  faith  in  God,  as  re- 
pentance of  sin,  as  baptism  for  the  remission  of  sin,  or  as  the  laying  on  of  hands 
for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost." 

After  all,  we  are  creatures  of  habits.  The  habits  formed  in  our 
childhood  stay  with  us  throughout  life.     Every  boy  and  girl,  for  this 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

reason,  should  be  taught  the  principle  of  tithing  and  should  be  urged 
to  tithe  all  that  comes  to  them,  and  fathers  and  mothers  should  see 
that  their  children  have  something  to  tithe.  At  one  time  I  was  out  with 
Elder  Stephen  L.  Richards,  at  a  stake  conference,  and  he  expressed  the 
thought  that  every  member  of  the  Church  should  see  if  the  Lord  has 
given  him  something,  and  if  so,  should  tithe  it  in  the  month  in  which  it 
was  received.  He  recommended  that  fathers  and  mothers  encourage 
boys  and  girls  to  tithe  even  their  spending  money,  not  because  it  has 
not  already  been  tithed,  but  to  develop  the  habit  of  paying  tithes  and 
offerings  as  children,  so  that  when  these  children  become  grown  the 
habit  will  have  been  formed. 

I  am  glad  that  I  am  a  Latter-day  Saint,  thankful  to  my  heavenly 
Father  that  I  heard  the  gospel,  thankful  to  be  associated  with  my 
brethren  and  sisters  in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  have  been  blessed  with 
a  testimony  that  this  is  God's  work ;  that  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation ;  that  the  holy  Priesthood  is  the  agency  by  which  he  operates 
in  this  Church  through  those  who  have  received  the  gospel ;  and  I  pray 
that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  the  blessings  of  the  gospel  may  be  upon 
all  of  us,  which  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  S.  HYDE 

Recently  returned  President  of  the  Netherlands  Mission 

I  am  not  entirely  surprised,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  at  being 
called  to  this  position,  as  a  number  of  other  returned  mission  presi- 
dents have  already  spoken.  But  notwithstanding  the  sense  of  re- 
sponsibility which  I  feel  in  speaking  here  this  morning,  I  am  very 
pleased  to  be  able  to  report  to  you  the  labors  which  have  been 
performed  in  the  Netherlands  mission,  and  to  tell  you  something  of 
that  wonderful  little  country. 

The  country  of  Holland  is  about  one  fifth  the  size  of  the  state  of 
Utah,  according  to  area,  and  has  a  population  of  between  seven  and 
a  half  and  eight  millions  of  people.  The  Church  membership  in 
Holland  at  the  end  of  1925  was  3270  souls.  There  were  63  mission- 
aries laboring  in  that  land  at  the  end  of  the  year,  in  four  conferences 
and  18  organized  branches.  During  the  year  they  performed  a  most 
remarkable  work,  and  while  we  had  only  93  baptisms,  they  dis- 
tributed more  than  400,000  tracts,  held  31,000  gospel  conversations, 
and  visited  the  homes  of  6,513  people  on  re-visits.  While  this  may 
not  be  a  very  large  number  compared  with  other  missions,  I  feel 
that  is  is  a  remarkable  work  to  be  accomplished  under  the  con- 
ditions which  prevail  in  that  land.  I  am  very  happy  to  report  that 
the  elders  are  united;  that  they  sense  the  responsibility  of  mission- 
ary service,  and  are  seeking  to  bear  witness  of  the  divinity  of  this 
latter-day  work  whenever  occasion  presents  itself. 

I  believe  some  of  the  best  times  I  have  spent  in  my  life  have 


ELDER  CHARLES  S.  HYDE  123 

been  in  the  missionary  service,  and  especially  on  occasions  where 
ordinances  of  the  gospel  have  been  performed.  It  has  been  my 
privilege  to  attend  some  very  remarkable  baptismal  services,  not 
only  in  Holland  but  in  Belgium,  which  at  one  time  was  a  part  of 
the  Netherlands  mission ;  also  in  Switzerland,  where  I  had  the 
pleasure  of  attending  conferences.  I  remember  a  very  impressive 
baptismal  service  which  was  held  in  Lake  Geneva  during  one  of 
the  sessions  of  the  Lausanne  conference,  where  a  number  of  people 
were  baptized  in  the  lake  upon  a  beautiful  Sabbath  morning,  to 
begin  the  sessions  of  that  wonderful  conference.  But!  I  believe  the 
most  remarkable  baptismal  service  that  I  have  yet  been  privileged  to 
attend  was  one  held  in  the  month  of  February,  1924,  in  the  city  of 
Liege,  at  the  time  of  the  official  organization  of  the  French  mission. 
There  "were  a  number  of  candidates  prepared  for  baptism  and  the 
service  was  scheduled  to  be  held  at  ten  o'clock  on  Sunday  morning. 
It  was  a  wintry  day  and  snowing,  cold  and  uninviting,  and  as  we 
went  to  the  baptismal  place  in  the  river  I  felt  in  my  heart  that  it 
was  a  most  uninviting  day.  Among  others  who  were  present  were 
the  elders  of  that  conference,  visiting  brethren,  myself,  and  the 
newly  appointed  president  of  the  Netherlands  mission,  also  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay.  As  the  elder  who  was  to  baptize  descended 
into  the  water  with  his  candidate,  in  the  heavens  a  ray  of  light 
shone  through,  the  clouds  separated,  it  ceased  snowing,  and  there 
just  upon  the  spot  where  the  elder  stood  with  his  candidate,  a  ray 
of  light  descended  and  shone  upon  those  who  were  in  the  water, 
and  remained  there  until  all  the  candidates  were  baptized,  and  as 
the  last  person  went  up  out  of  the  water,  that  ray  of  light  disap- 
peared, and  it  began  to  snow  again.  To  me  it  was  a  most  remark- 
able manifestation  of  the  divine  approval  of  God  upon  that  wonder- 
ful ceremony  of  baptism  which  was  being  performed  by  his 
authorized  servants  in  the  river.  My  heart  was  thrilled  as  I  felt 
that  God  was  smiling  his  approval  upon  that  which  was  being 
done,  and  sanctifying  to  the  people  the  ordinance  which  they  were 
taking  upon  themselves,  to  keep  his  commandments  and  to  walk 
in  his  ways.  , 

The  elders  who  are  laboring  in  that  mission  have  received  of 
the  Spirit.  They  are  united,  and  they  are  seeking  to  do  that  which 
is  required  of  them.  If  I  had  received  no  other  witness  throughout 
my  missionary  work  than  the  attitude  of  the  elders,  it  would  have 
been  a  remarkable  manifestation.  The  fact  that  these  young  men 
are  cleansed  and  purified,  sanctified  to  the  work  of  the  Lord,  is 
a  most  remarkable  thing.  I  have  had  them  come  into  my  office 
with  their  disappointments  in  seeking  to  learn  that  language  and 
to  accustom  themselves  to  the  habits  of  the  people,  and  they  have 
poured  out  their  souls  to  me  in  tears,  expressing  their  feeling  of 
inability  to  do  the  work  which  they  had  been  called  to  do,  of  their 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

unpreparedness,  being  disappointed  in  that  they  had  not  fulfilled 
every  responsibility  at  home  which  they  had  been  privileged  to  do 
'had  they  been  so  inclined.  But  after  speaking  with  them,  and 
praying  with  them,  and  counseling  them,  they  felt  to  go  onward 
and  receive  the  spirit  of  the  work. 

Just  before  leaving  to  come  home  one  of  our  new  elders  came 
into  the  office,  and  in  tears  poured  out  to  me  his  soul ;  told  me  of 
his  life  and  all  that  he  had  done,  and  his  desire  to  do  right,  but 
with  the  feeling  of  inability  to  do  everything  that  missionary  work 
imposed  upon  him.  After  counseling  with  him  and  having  prayers 
with  him  in  my  office,  he  went  out  feeling  encouraged,  and  the  day 
I  left  I  received  a  letter  from  him,  and  at  the  top  of  it  he  had 
written  these  words :  "There  is  sunshine  in  my  soul  today."  That 
spirit  is  the  spirit  which  characterizes  their  work — sunshine  in 
the  soul,  and  a  desire  to  preach  repentance  and  to  bear  witness  of 
the  divinity  of  this  gospel.  We  have  sought  to  impress  them  with 
the  fact  that  the  Lord  has  made  wonderful  promises  to  his  servants 
in  the  missionary  field,  that  he  would  be  with  them  and  go  before 
them,  and  prepare  the  way,  that  they  might  be  able  to  accomplish 
that  work.  •  , 

I  desire  toj  call  attention  to  his  promise  as  made  known  in  the 
84th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  we  have  relied 
upon  this  promise,  and  have  seen  the  truthfulness  of  it.  We  have 
realized  that  the  Lord  really  brings  to  pass  his  promises  to  those 
who  seek  to  obey  him.  In  speaking  to  the  missionaries  who  had 
returned  from  the  Eastern  States  in  the  year  1832,  he  made  known 
these  words: 

"Behold,  I  send  you  out  to  reprove  the  world  of  all  their  unrighteous  deeds, 
and  to  teach  them  of  a  judgment   which  is   to   come. 

"And  who  receiveth  you,  there  I  will  be  also,  for  I  will  go  before  your  face. 
I  will  be  on  your  right  hand  and  on  your  left,  and  my  Spirit  shall  be  in  your 
hearts,  and  mine  angels  round  about  you,  to  bear  you  up. 

"Whoso  receiveth  you  receiveth  me ;  and,  the  same  will  feed  you  and  clothe 
you,  and  give  you  money. 

"And  he  who  feeds  you,  or  clothes  you,  or  gives  you  money,  shall  in  nowise 
lose, his  reward. 

"And  he  that  doeth  not  these  things  is  not  my  disciple ;  by  this  ye  may 
know  my  disciples." 

We  have  tested  this  word  and  found  it  to  be  true,  for  we  have 
found  in  that  land  disciples  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  men  and 
women  who  have  been  and  are  willing  to  feed  the  elders  and  to 
clothe  them  and  to  give  them  money,  and  rejoice  in  this  opportunity. 
In  all  of  the  organized  branches  of  the  Church  in  that  mission 
where  members  of  the  Church  reside  the  elders  are  fed,  and  in  many 
instances  clothed  and  given  money  by  members  of  the  Church;  and 
last  year,  by  practicing  economy,  we  were  able  to  reduce  the 
average  expense  per  missionary  in  the  mission  from  $32.00  to  $27.17; 


ELDER  CHARLES  S.  HYDE  125 

with  this  added  testimony  that  the  elders  who  expended  the  least 
amount  of  money  in  the  missionary  services  were  doing  the  best 
work  and  producing  the  most  results,  for  they  were  relying  upon 
the  Saints,  partaking  of  their  hospitality,  leaving  their  blessings, 
and  the  Saints  were  in  nowise  losing  their  reward.  And  we  were 
able  to  determine  the  disciples  of  Christ  from  those  who  were  not 
bis  disciples.  Truly  the  Lord  is  going  before  his  servants,  is  on 
their  right  hand  and  on  their  left  hand,  and  is  bearing  them  up, 
and  his  angels  are  round  about  them,  and  they  are  enjoying  an 
influence  that  will  sanctify  their  souls,  if  they  continue  faithful  in 
the  work. 

I  believe  I  realize  to  a  certain  extent  the  feeling  experienced 
by  some  of  the  Seventies  in  the  time  of  Christ  when  they  returned 
trom  their  missions,  and  with  joy  reported  that  even  the  evil 
spirits  had  been  subjected  unto  them  by  the  name  of  Christ.  I 
have  also  had  a  similar  experience,  when  even  the  evil  spirits  have 
been  subject  unto  us  through  the  name  of  Christ.  We  had  one  in 
the  mission  field  afflicted  with  an  evil  spirit,  and  his  body  tormented 
and  tortured  by  the  possession  of  that  evil  spirit.  I  came  into  the 
room  upon  one  occasion,  and  the  evil  spirit  sprang  upon  me  and 
seized  me  by  the  throat  with  a  grip  of  iron,  shutting  off  even  my 
ability  to  speak  and  almost  to  breathe,  while  the  elders  stood  round 
about,  also  my  wife  with  a  feeling  of  fear  in  her  heart  that  the  evil 
spirit  would  overcome  me.  He  shouted  with  a  voice  that  was  most 
terrific.  He  declared  himself  to  be  the  devil.  "My  name  is  Satan," 
he  declared,  "and  I  have  more  authority  than  you."  And  again 
tightening  his  grip  upon  my  throat  he  declared,  "I  have  more 
authority  than  you."  I  could  not  speak,  but  I  looked  the  person  in 
the  eye,  and  releasing  his  grip  and  falling  upon  the  bed,  that  same 
voice  declared,  "No,  I  have  not  more  authority,"  and  he  hid  his  face 
in  the  pillow  and  was  subject  to  the  power  of  the  Priesthood. 
Elder  Kooyman,  who  was  conference  president,  anointed  him  with 
oil,  and  with  other  elders  I  laid  my  hands  upon  him,  and  I  began 
to  confirm  the  anointing  with  oil.  When  I  reached  the  point  in 
prayer,  that  "in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,"  I  was  going  to  say,  "we 
rebuke  the  spirit,"  he  sprang  from  the  bed,  and  pleaded :  "Do  not 
use  that  name,  do  not  use  that  name."  We  placed  him  upon  the 
bed,  and  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  I  rebuked  that  spirit  and 
commanded  it  to  depart  from  him,  and  the  person  who  was  af- 
flicted fell  limp  upon  the  bed  and  slept  for  hours,  the  first  peaceful 
sleep  he  had  enjoyed  for  several  days.  One  of  the  greatest  wit- 
nesses that  have  come  into  my  life  was  upon  this  occasion. 

I  had  been  taught  by  my  father  and  mother  that  there  is  power 
in  the  Priesthood.  I  had  been  taught  it  in  the  Sunday  school  and 
in  the  elders'  quorum.  I  doubted  it  not,  I  felt  that  there  was  power 
in  that  Priesthood,   but  this  was   the  first   occasion  which   had   come 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

into  my  life  where  I  had  seen  evil  spirits  subject  to  that  power  with- 
out even  a  word  being  spoken.  I  realize  that  those  who  are  set 
apart  and  ordained  to  preside  have  authority  to  administer  in  the 
ordinances  of  the  gospel  and  have  power  over  unclean  spirits. 

I  might  go  on  and  relate  to  you  many  wonderful  experiences, 
but  the  time  will  not  permit.  I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  the  opportunity  came  into  my  life,  to  enjoy  the  wonderful 
spirit  of  missionary  work,  to  associate  with  the  cleanest,  most 
wholesome  young  men  that  can  be  found  in  the  world  anywhere, 
whose  lives  are  clean,  and  whose  habits  are  an  example  unto  all 
the  world,  seeking  to  bring  unto  them  the  power  whereby  they  may 
be  saved.  I  thank  the  Lord  for  this  Priesthood,  the  power  whereby 
we  may  sanctify  our  lives  unto  the  renewing  of  our  bodies,  and  by 
enduring  in  faithfulness  become  the  sons  of  Aaron  and  Moses,  sons 
of  the  seed  of  Abraham  and  the  Church  of  God,  and  of  the  elect  of 
the  kingdom.  That  we  might  sanctify  ourselves  by  this  Priesthood 
and  continue  faithful,  and  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  as  long  as 
we  shall  live,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  fellowship  with  you 
and  for  this  privilege  of  meeting  with  you  in  conference,  to  be  fed 
spiritually,  for  I  have  been  fed  and  I  rejoice  in  this  fact. 

I  have  a  testimony  that  God  lives;  he  has  been  good  to  me  and 
1  have  found  him  to  be  patient,  kind  and  loving,  and  I  sincerely 
pray  that  while  I  address  you  this  morning  he  will  bless  me  with 
the  same  spirit  that  has  been  present  in  our  conference  thus  far. 

Many  of  our  speakers  have  referred  to  the  good  work  being 
accomplished  by  those  who  are  sent  into  the  mission  field  and  to  the 
wonderful  growth  and  development  of  young  men  who  are  called 
to  this  service.  It  is  a  fact  that  the  spiritual  growth  of  our  young 
men  who  go  into  the  mission  field  is  very  rapid  after  they  reach 
their  field  of  labor,  and  we  often  refer  to  this  development  as  a 
witness  of  the  mercy  and  goodness  of  the  Lord  to  those  who  serve 
him  in  faith.  I  have  been  wondering  if,  because  of  this  fact,  we 
neglect  to  a  large  degree  our  opportunities  for  development  at  home, 
looking  forward  to  even  a  greater  service  than  could  be  rendered 
in  the  mission  field  with  proper  preparation  beforehand. 

For  the  last  year  it  has  been  my  good  fortune  and  pleasure  to 
labor  with  many  young  men  who  have  been  preparing  to  leave  for 
the  mission  field.  Occasionally  this  question  is  asked :  Why  did 
the  Lord  keep  Joseph  Smith  waiting  for  seven  years  after  giving 
him  the  first  vision?  And  from  the  discussion  of  this 
question,    I    have    wondered    if    many    of    us    have    not   had    this 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH  127 

same  thought  in  our  minds.  Let  me  refresh  your  minds  by  briefly 
calling  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  after  Joseph  Smith  went  into 
the  woods  to  pray  and  after  he  had  received  the  wonderful  mani- 
festation— the  appearance  of  the  Father  and  the  Son,  at  which  time 
he  was  commanded  not  to  join  any  church,  but  to  return  to  his  home 
and  in  due  time  information  would  be  given  to  him — he  waited  three 
years,  which  seems  to  have  been  a  time  in  which  he  was  tried  and 
ridiculed  and  tempted,  but  overcame  all  temptations,  his  faith  in  the 
Lord  and  determination  to  serve  him  increasing.  When  he  had 
been  sufficiently  tried  and  had  shown  by  his  faith  and  his  works 
a  desire  to  carry  out  the  instructions  given  him  and  to  seek  for 
greater  light  and  knowledge,  the  Angel  Moroni  appeared  to  him, 
and  for  four  years  he  was  schooled  under  the  direction  of  this 
heavenly  personage ;  and  finally  the  plates  containing  the  record 
of  the  ancient  inhabitants  of  the  American  continent  were  given  to 
him  and,  little  by  little,  translated,  requiring  much  patience,  study 
and  effort  upon  the  part  of  Joseph  Smith. 

If  we  stop  to  reflect  upon  this  incident  and  many  others  that 
could  be  called  to  our  attention,  we  will  see  how  God  calls  men 
to  positions  of  great  responsibility  and  provides  for  their  prepara- 
tion for  such  service.  "Many  are  called  but  few  are  chosen.''  Is  it 
not  possible  that  many  blessings  are  withheld  from  us  because  of 
our  failure  to  earn  those  blessings  through  our  faith  and  our  works, 
in  this  day  opportunity  is  given  to  us  to  prepare  in  our  youth  for 
the  service  of  the  Lord,  and  not  only  is  the  opportunity  given,  but 
we  are  commanded  to  prepare  through  the  organizations  provided 
for  us,  and  known  as  the  priesthood  quorums.  Isaiah  tells  us  in  the 
following  passage  when  we  are  to  begin  to  gain  knowledge : 

"Whom  shall  he  teach  knowledge?  and  whom  shall  he  make  to  understand 
doctrine?  them  that  are  weaned  from  the  milk,  and  drawn  from  the  breasts. 

"For  precept  must  be  upon  precept,  precept  upon  precept ;  line  upon  line, 
line  upon  line;  here  a  little,  and  there  a  little."     (Isaiah  28:9,  10.) 

We  also  read  in  Deuteronomy  32:1-4  the  following: 

"Give  ear,  O  ye  heavens,  and  I  will  speak;  and  hear,  O  earth,  the  words  of 
my   mouth. 

"My  doctrine  shall  drop  as  the  rain,  my  speech  shall  distill  as  the  dew, 
as  the  small  rain  upon  the  tender  herb,  and  as  the  showers  upon  the  grass : 

"Because  I  will  publish  the  name  of  the  Lord:  ascribe  ye  greatness  unto 
ou'r  God. 

"He  is  the  Rock,  his  work  is  perfect:  for  all  his  ways  are  judgment:  a 
God  of  truth  and  without  iniquity,  just  and  right  he  is." 

I  am  wondering  if  some  of  us  have  overlooked  this  fact. 
Occasionally  we  hear  expressions  from  members  of  the  Church  that 
would  lead  us  to  believe  that  we  cannot  expect  young  men  to  get 
the  spirit  of  missionary  work  at  home.  Is  this  a  real  condition  or 
an  imaginary  one?    When  we  meet  together  to  worship,  we  partake 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

of  the  same  spirit  and  manifestations  that  are  found  in  the  mission 
field,  and  many  times  to  a  greater  degree.  If  we  will  study  the 
matter  we  will  find  that  this  spirit  and  these  manifestations  come 
mainly  to  those  who  are  serving  in  faith  and  who,  through  their 
labors,  are  entitled  to  these  blessings. 

If  our  young  men  were  given  greater  opportunity  to  give  ex- 
pression to  their  thoughts,  and  were  taught  to  respond  to  the 
requirements  of  the  priesthood  and  the  responsibilities  placed  upon 
them  in  the  quorums  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  and  to  perform 
the  labors  required  of  them  in  these  organizations,  laboring  at 
all  times  in  faith  and  for  a  purpose  under  the  direction,  encourage- 
ment and  good-will  of  their  parents,  their  brothers  and  sisters,  ami 
associates,  they  would,  in  my  opinion,  go  into  the  mission  field 
with  the  same  spirit  that  is  developed  so  soon  after  they  arrive  ir 
the  field. 

What  is  responsible  for  this  rapid  growth  and  development  in 
the  mission  field?  It  is  the  responsibility  which  is  placed  upon 
them ;  it  is  the  work  required  of  them.  'They  leave  their  homes  for 
the  mission  field  with  a  testimony  of  the  gospel,  but  that  testimony 
is  not  developed.  They  have  looked  forward  for  years  to  an  oppor- 
tunity to  serve  in  the  mission  field,  but  as  a  rule  have  not  been 
given  opportunity  to  give  expression  to  their  thoughts  or  to 
discuss  the  knowledge  they  have  received  concerning  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints ;  but  when  they  reach  their 
fields  of  labor  they  humble  themselves  before  |the  Lord  and 
seek  the  Lord  in  prayer,  just  as  Joseph  Smith  sought  him.  They 
are  touched  by  the  influence  of  the  holy  Spirit  and  they  respond 
to  this  power  and  influence. 

Now,  what  justification  have  we  to  feel  that  it  is  necessary  for 
these  young  men  to  go  into  the  mission  field  before  they  can  de- 
velop this  attitude  toward  the  things  pertaining  to  the  gospel? 
There  are  many  schools  in  which  we  may  learn.  Some  are  schools 
which  look  to  the  holy  Spirit  for  light.  Under  this  influence  the 
spiritual  growth  is  much  more  rapid  than  otherwise.  We  have  an 
example  of  this  in  the  life  of  Moses.  We  all  know  the  story  of 
his  childhood,  how  he  was  taken  to  the  home  of  Pharaoh,  where  he 
grew  to  manhood,  learning  from  his  mother,  who  was  employed  as 
a  nurse  to  care  for  him,  of  the  teachings  of  her  people  concerning 
God  and  the  hereafter.  Moses  was  far  removed  from  the  spirit  and 
influence  which  comes  through  these  teachings  when  in  the  midst 
of  those  who  partake  of  this  same  influence.  He  learned  of  the 
teachings  of  the  world  from  the  masters  of  Egypt,  who,  while  they 
had  great  learning,  were  not  actuated  by  that  influence  which 
comes  from  above.  So,  while  Moses  had  faith  in  God  and  the 
teachings  of  his  mother,  he  had  evidently  not  learned  of  the  great 
power  and  could  not  appreciate  fully  the  promises  of  the  Lord  to 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH  129 

his  children.    An  example  of  this  is  shown  in  the  third  and  fourth 
chapters  of  Exodus. 

•  Moses  seemed  curious  when  he  saw  the  burning  bush  and  he 
stopped  to  determine  why  the  bush  could  burn  and  yet  not  be  con- 
sumed ;  and  God  called  him  and  told  him  of  the  afflictions  of  his  people, 
saying:  ,  .' 

"Now  therefore,  behold,  the  cry  of  the  children  of  Israel  is  come  unto  me : 
and  I  have  also  seen  the  oppression  wherewith  the  Egyptians  oppress  them. 

"Come  now  therefore,  and  I  will  send  thee  unto  Pharaoh,  that  thou  mayest 
bring  forth  my  people  the  children  of  Israel  out  of  Egypt."  (Exodus  3:9,  10.) 

Had  Moses  been  trained  under  the  proper  influences,  this  no 
doubt  would  have  been  commandment  enough  for  him,  but  listen 
to  his  reply :  "Who  am  I,  that  I  should  go  unto  Pharaoh,  and  that 
I  should  bring  forth  the  children  of  Israel  out  of  Egypt?"  Even  with 
the  promise  from  the  Lord  to  be  with  him,  Moses  questioned  the 
power  of  God  to  give  him  strength  to  accomplish  God's  purposes. 
Even  after  several  miracles  had  been  performed  by  Moses  as  a 
sign  to  him  of  the  power  of  God,  he  found  excuses  for  not  carrying 
out  the  Lord's  instructions,  and  finally  Moses  said  unto  the  Lord : 

"O  my  Lord,  I  am  not  eloquent,  neither  heretofore,  nor  since  thou  hast 
spoken  unto  thy  servant :  but  I  am  slow  of  speech,  and  of  a  slow  tongue. 

"And  the  Lord  said  unto  him,  Who  hath  made  man's  mouth  ?  or  who  maketh 
the  dumb,  or  deaf,  or  the  seeing,  or  the  blind?  have  not  I  the  Lord? 

"Now  therefore  go,  and  I  will  be  with  thy  mouth,  and  teach  thee  what  thou 
shalt  say. 

"And  he  said,  O  my  Lord,  send,  I  pray  thee,  by  the  hand  of  him  whom 
thou  wilt  send. 

"And  the  anger  of  the  Lord  was  kindled  against  Moses,  and  he  said,  Is 
not  Aaron  the  Levite  thy  brother?  I  know  that  he  can  speak  well.  And  also, 
behold,  he  cometh  forth  to  meet  thee :  and  when  he  seeth  thee,  he  will  be  glad 
in  his   heart."    (Exodus  4:10-14.) 

Is  it  not  possible  that  blessings  were  withheld  from  Moses  and 
given  to  Aaron,  blessings  which  Moses  could  have  enjoyed  had  he 
obeyed  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  in  faith? 

In  the  life  of  Enoch  we  have  another  striking  example  of  how 
the  Lord  provides  a  means  for  the  establishment  of  his  work  and 
the  preparation  of  his  servants  for  service  in  that  great  work.  We 
are  told  that  in  the  days  of  Enoch  there  was  great  wickedness  upon 
the  earth.    In  Moses  6:27,  31  and  32  we  read  the  following: 

"And   he   heard   a   voice   from   heaven,   saying:    Enoch,   my   son,   prophesy 

.  unto  this  people,  and  say  unto  them — Repent,  for  thus  saith  the  Lord :  I  am  angry 

with  this  people,  and  my  fierce  anger  is  kindled  against  them;  for  their  hearts 

have  waxed  hard,  and  their  ears  are  dull  of  hearing,  and  their  eyes  cannot  see 

afar  off;    *    *    *    * 

"And  when  Enoch  had  heard  these  words,  he  bowed  himself  to  the  earth, 
before  the  Lord,  and  spake  before  the  Lord,  saying :  Why  is  it  that  I  have  found 
favor  in  thy  sight,  and  am  but  a  lad,  and  all  the  people  hate  me ;  for  I  am  slow 
of  speech;  wherefore  am  I  thy  servant? 

"And  the  Lord  said  unto  Enoch :  Go  forth  and  do  as  I  have  commanded 


130'  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

thee,  and  no  man  shall  pierce  thee.  Open  thy  mouth,  and  it  shall  be  filled,  and 
I  will  give  thee  utterance,  for  all  flesh  is  in  my  hands,  and  I  will  do  as 
seemeth  me  good." 

Unlike  Moses,  Enoch  did  not  question  the  Lord,  but  he  ac- 
knowledged his  own  [weakness  and  his  lack  of  preparation  and  was 
willing  to  be  guided  by  the  Lord  and  prepared  for  the  service 
required  of  him.  We  find  that  Enoch  did  not  commence  his  preach- 
ing immediately,  but  was  taken  into  the  mountain  wherej  the  Lord 
taught  him,  where  he  learned  precept  upon  precept,  line  upon  line, 
here  a  little  and  there  a  little,  finally  returning  to  his  people,  where 
he  converted  a  city,  and  the  city  was  not,  for  the  Lord  took  it  unto 
himself. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  mention  these  incidents  be- 
cause it  seems  to  me  that  there,  is  something  lacking,  either  in  our 
belief,  ;in  our  training,  or  in  our  faith,  when  we  say  that  young  men 
cannot  be  prepared  at  home  in  the  Church  for  service  they  render 
so  well  under  the  guiding  influence  of  our  heavenly  Father  in  the 
mission  field.  How  much  better  they  could  and  would_  serve  while 
in  the  mission  field  if  they  were  thoroughly  prepared  before  leav- 
ing. It  is  so  easy  to  pass  the  responsibility  to  someone  else,  but  it 
requires  a  real  effort  to  face  the  responsibility  placed  upon  one 
when  he  receives  the  Priesthood  and  to  perform  the  labors  required 
of  those- who  are  called  to  such  positions,  who  should  labor  in  faith 
and  humility,  knowing  and  realizing  that  all  things  are  possible  to 
those  who  serve  the  Lord  in  faith,  with  a  desire_to  accomplish  that 
which  is  required  by  him.  Let  us  keep  in  mind  the  words  contained 
in  John  15:1-5: 

"I  am  the  true  vine,  and  my  Father  is  the  husbandman. 

"Every  branch  in  me  that  beareth  not  fruit  he  taketh  away;  and  every 
branch  that  beareth  fruit,  he  purgeth  it,  that  it  may  bring  forth  more  fruit. 

"Now  ye  are  clean  through  the  word  which  I  have  spoken  unto  you. 

"Abide  in  me,  and  I  in  you.  As  the  branch  cannot  bear  fruit  of  itself, 
except  it  abide  in  the  vine;  no  more  can  ye,  except  ye  abide  in  me. 

"I  am  the  vine,  ye  are  the  branches :  He  that  abideth  in  me,  and  I  in  him, 
the  same  bringeth  forth  much  fruit :  for  without  me  ye  can  do  nothing." 

How  many  of  us  belong  to  that  branch  which  beareth  good 
fruit?  How  many  of  us  are  in  danger  of  being  cut  off  because  of 
our  inactivity,  because  of  our  failure  to  take  advantage  of  every 
opportunity  that  comes  to  us  for  service  in  this  great  work? 

May  we  be  numbered  among  the  branches  that  bear  fruit; 
may  God  purge  us  that  we  may  bring  forth  more  fruit;  may  we 
always  abide  in  him  and  may  his  words  abide  in  us,  that  we  may 
eventually  be  glorified  with  that  glory  which  he  has  promised  to 
those  who  are  faithful  in  all  things.  May  God  help  us  to  see  the 
way;  may  we  be  guided  by  his  Spirit  that  we  may  go  forward  and 
accomplish  that   which   is   required   of  us,   doing  it   in   faith   and 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH  131 

humility,  is  my  prayer,  which  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

A  sacred  solo,  "Light  of  the  world,"  was  sung  by  Cyril  Martin. 

ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

The  Apostle  Paul,  in  the  opening  words  of  his  epistle  to  the 
Hebrews,  testified  as  follows: 

"God,  who  in  sundry  times  and   in  divers  manners   spake  in  times   past  to 
the  fathers  by  the  prophets,  hath  in  these  last  days  spoken  unto  us  by  his  Son." 

And  so  we  testify  that  in  this  generation  the  same  God  has  spoken 
through  his  Son,  and  through  the  prophets  unto  us.  Just  as  it  was  neces- 
sary to  supplement  the  revelations  of  the  Old  Testament  by  the  revela- 
tions of  the  New  Testament,  to  which  the  Apostle  Paul  testifies,  so  was 
it  necessary  to  supplement  the  revelations  of  both  the  Old  Testament 
and  the  New  Testament  by  the  revelations  to  us  in  our  generation. 

The  history  of  this  American  volume  of  scripture,  this  modern 
volume  of  scripture,  known  to  us  as  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  shows 
that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  also  his  associates  placed  a  high 
valuation  upon  the  message,  upon  the  doctrines  given  to  us.  Soon  after 
the  organization  of  the  Church,  indeed  about  three  months  afterwards, 
Joseph  was  concerned  in  getting  the  revelations  together  for  the  purpose 
of  publication.  In  November,  1831,  a  conference  was  called  at  Hiram, 
Ohio,  for  the  purpose  of  having  these  revelations  sent  down  to  Missouri 
and  published  at  the  printing  office  of  the  Church,  then  established  at 
Independence,  Missouri.  On  the  afternoon  of  that  day,  November  1, 
1831,  there  was  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  the  revelation  now  em- 
bodied as  the  first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  known  as 
the  preface.  It  is  so  designated  in  the  revelation.  This  revelation  alone 
is  very  strong  corroborative  proof  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph. 

Elder  Whitney  spoke  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  as  being  one  of 
the  strongest  corroborative  evidences  of  the  divinity  of  the  Master. 
And  so  as  to  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  we  may  say  that  it  is  a 
very  strong  book  of  corroborative  testimony  in  support  of  the  divinity 
of  this  latter-day  work. 

Dr.  Eliot,  the  president  emeritus  of  Harvard,  has  given  us  a 
volume  of  prefaces  of  the  notable  books  of  the  world.  Volume  39 
of  this  five-and-one-half-foot  library,  as  it  is  sometimes  called,  is  a 
volume  devoted  entirely  to  prefaces — prefaces  that  are  deemed  worthy 
to  live  after  the  books  themselves  to  which  they  are  prefaces  in  some 
instances  have  lapsed  into  obsolescence.  After  considering  the  preface 
to  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  in  the  light  of  the  literary  standards 
of  the  world  as  to  what  a  preface  should  be,   and  after  comparing 


132  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

it  with  the  outsanding  prefaces  of  the  books  of  all  time,  I  discover  it 
to  be  a  very  remarkable  document.  I  have  read  it  over  scores  of  times, 
and  the  oftener  I  read  it  the  more  powerful  and  beautiful  does  the 
language  seem  to  me.  I  am  persuaded  that  the  testimony  in  support 
of  so-called  "Mormonism"  is  not  dependent  upon  any  one  single  bit 
of  evidence,  but  upon  the  cumulative  effect  of  all  the  corroborative 
evidence  we  have  in  support  of  this  divine  latter-day  cause. 

The  brethren  having  in  charge  the  bringing  forth  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  safeguarded  it  very  carefully.  It  was  not  sufficient  for 
Oliver  Cowdery  alone  to  take  the  manuscript  from  Ohio  to  Missouri,  but 
by  revelation  a  companion  was  designated  as  his  assistant  in  carrying  that 
message.  Ex-Governor  Harding,  of  Utah,  a  Palmyra  boy,  in  an  af- 
fidavit furnished  for  an  anti-"Mormon"  publication  in  the  50's  gives 
us  a  very  beautiful  picture,  to  my  mind,  of  the  way  Joseph  and  his 
associates  safeguarded  the  precious  manuscript  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. He  testifies  that  he  saw  Joseph,  Oliver  and  Martin  walking 
through  the  woods  each  day  in  the  morning,  with  a  "take,"  as  the 
printer  calls  it,  of  manuscript  to  be  delivered  to  Mr.  Grandin,  the 
printer  of  Palmyra,  sufficient  copy  for  the  day ;  and  the  same  three  men 
again  in  the  evening  walking  through  the  woods  to  receive  back  the 
precious  manuscript  which  the  printers  during  the  day  had  placed  in 
type. 

Some  of  the  brethren  felt  that  it  was  not  such  a  very  difficult  thing 
to  produce  one  of  these  revelations.  They  saw  these  revelations  and 
realized  that  they  were  coming  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  more  or  less 
in  his  language,  and  yet  with  wisdom  above  that  of  man,  and  a  notion 
prevailed  with  some  that  it  was  not  a  very  difficult  thing  to  produce 
such  revelations.  Then  the  test  was  given  of  the  Lord,  ju^c  as  surely 
a  test,  although  not  so  spectacular,  as  Elijah's  contest  with  the  priests 
of  Baal.  This  is  the  language  of  the  Lord  in  making  that  test : 

"And  now  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  you  a  testimony  of  the  truth  of  these 
commandments  which  are  lying  before  you.  Your  eyes  have  been  upon  •  my 
servant,  Joseph  Smith,  Jr.,  and  his  language  you  have  known,  and  his  imper- 
fections you  have  known ;  and  you  have  sought  in  your  hearts  knowledge  that  you 
might  express  beyond  his  language ;  this  you  also  know. 

"Now,  seek  ye  out  of  the  Book  of  Commandments,  even  the  least  that 
is  among  them,  and  appoint  him  that  is  the  most  wise  among  you ; 

"Or,  if  there  be  any  among  you  that  shall  make  one  like  unto  it,  then  ye 
are  justified  in  saying  that  ye  do  not  know  that  they  are  true; 

"But  if  ye  cannot  make  one  like  unto  it,  ye  are  under  condemnation  if  ye 
do  not  bear  record  that  they  are  true. 

"For  ye  know  that  there  is  no  unrighteousness  in  them,  and  that  which  is 
righteous  cometh  down  from  above,  from  the  Father  of  lights."  (Doc.  and  Cov. 
67:4-9.) 

And  there  was  one  wise  man — Church  history  suggests  that  he  was 
very  wise  in  his  own  estimation — Brother  McLellan,  who  was  really 
foolish  enough  to  undertake  to  produce  something  that  would  read 
somewhat  like  one  of  these  revelations,  and  added  to  his  knowledge  the 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART  133 

folly  of  attempting  the  impossible.  Just  as  the  great  John  Marshall, 
justly  estimated  the  greatest  jurist  that  the  United  States  has  ever 
had,  failed  upon  a  challenge  by  his  preacher,  to  produce  a  parable  com- 
parable to  one  of  the  parables  of  our  Lord  and  Master. 

There  were  many  testimonies  given  in  support  of  the  divinity  of 
the  revelations.  The  first  book  published  was  known  as  the  Book  of 
Commandments,  afterwards  changed  to  its  present  title.  The  Pres- 
idency in  the  proposed  issuance  of  that  volume,  testified  thus : 

"We  do  not  present  this  little  volume  with  any  other  expectation  than  that 
we  are  to  be  called  to  answer  to  everything  advanced,  in  that  day  when  the  secrets 
of  all  hearts  will  be  revealed  and  the  reward  of  every  man's  labor  given  unto 
him." 

Later  the  great  body  of  the  priesthood  divided  into  departments, 
each  with  a  spokesman,  and  strongly  testified  to  the  divinity  of  that 
book  of  revelations  and  to  Joseph  as  a  prophet.  The  following 
testimony  was  prepared  and  presented  at  a  conference,  November, 
1831,  it  being  intended  to  have  it  signed  and  printed  in  the  Book  of 
Commandments : 

"The  testimony  of  the  witnesses  to  the  Book  of  the  Lord's  Commandments, 
which  commandments  he  gave  to  his  Church  through  Joseph  Smith,  Jr.,  who 
was  appointed  by  the  voice  of  the  Church  for  this  purpose :  We  therefore  feel 
willing  to  bear  testimony  to  all  the  wcrld  of  mankind,  to  every  creature  upon 
the  face  of  all  the  earth,  and  upon  the  islands  of  the  sea,  that  the  Lord  has 
borne  record  to  our  souls,  through  the  Holy  Ghost  shed  forth  upon  us,  that  these 
commandments  were  given  by  the  inspiration  of  God  and  are  profitable  for  all 
men,  and  are  verily  true.  We  give  this  testimony  unto  the  world,  the  Lord  being 
our  helper;  and  it  is  through  the  grace  of  God  the  Father  and  his  Son,  Jesus 
Christ,  that  we  are  permitted  to  have  this  privilege  of  bearing  this  testimony 
unto  the  world,  in  which  we  rejoice  exceedingly,  praying  the1  Lord  always  that 
the  children  of  men  may  be  profited  thereby."  (History  of  the  Church,  Vol. 
I,  page  226.) 

This  testimony  to  the  truth  of  the  Book  of  Commandments  was 
concurred  in  by  the  leaders  and  other  elders  present  at  the  conference 
where  it  was  presented.  It  may  have  been  signed  also.  It  was  carried 
to  Missouri,  but  owing  to  the  fact  that  the  printing  press  was  destroyed 
by  a  mob  before  the  Book  of  Commandments  was  all  printed,  the  testi- 
mony does  not  appear  in  the  part  of  it  that  was  printed ;  but  it  was 
concurred  in  by  all  the  leading  brethren  present  at  the  conference,  among 
them  being  Joseph  Smith,  Jr.,  Oliver  Cowdery,  David  Whitmer, 
John  Whitmer,  Peter  Whitmer,  Jr.,  Sidney  Rigdon,  William  E.  Mc- 
Lellan,  Orson  Hyde,  Luke  Johnson,  Lyman  E.  Johnson,  and  others. 
(See  History  of  the  Church,  Vol.  1,  page  222  and  226.) 

As  we  look  for  individual  items  of  testimony,  having  as  I  say  this 
cumulative  effect  of  making  a  case  beyond  all  controversy  to  those  who 
are  willing  to  listen  to  the  truth,  we  have  such  evidence  as  was  referred 
to  by  President  Grant  in  his  opening  speech — the  testimony  of  the 
great  premier  of  England,  Gladstone,  a  man  disinterested  and  certainly 
competent  to  give  that  testimony.     And  the  testimonies  continue  up 


134  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

to  this  time  in  support  of  the  revelation  to  Joseph  contained  in  section 
101,  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  verse  80,  to  the  effect  that  the  constitution 
of  this  land  was  established  by  wise  men  raised  up  unto  this  very 
purpose — not  only  the  view  the  great  Gladstone  had,  but  modern  lawyers 
in  convention  assembled  express  similar  views  in  reference  to  the  in- 
spiration of  this  great  work.  Honorable  Michael  J.  Doyle,  in  the  con- 
vention of  the  Commercial  Law  League  of  America,  held  July  13th, 
1925,  said: 

"It  is  not  to  be  expected  that  any  product  of  mere  human  brain  can  escape 
all  criticism  or  will  be  an  absolutely  perfect  document.  But  so  far  as  human 
genius  could  reach,  the  testimony  of  the  intervening  years  has  established  that 
never  before  in  the  history  of  man's  endeavor  to  uplift  man  has  there  been 
presented  to  civilization  or  to  humanity  a  document  so  inspiring  of  the  rights  of 
posterity  and  the  rights  of  freedom,  as  the  document  which  followed  the  Declara- 
tion of  Independence  on  that  hot  Fourth  of  July,  1776.  I  agree  with  the  many 
writers  on  the  subject  who  say  that  we  have  much  reason  to  believe  that  the  brain 
of  these  men,  sitting  there  in  that  solemn  assembly,  was  touched  by  a  divine 
spark  when  they  gave  to  the  world  and  to  posterity  that  marvelous  document." 

A  federal  judge  who  sometimes  sits  in  our  own  city,  Judge  Page 
Morris,  had  this  to  say  with  reference  to  the  Constitution  not  long  ago : 

"The  Constitution  of  the  United  States  is  the  greatest  document  the  world 
has  ever  known,  and  if  it  is  riot  divinely  inspired  it  is  nearer  to  it  than  any 
other  human  document  I  know  of." 

The  very  manner  of  giving  these  revelations  indicates  that  Joseph 
had  divine  assistance.  Parley  P.  Pratt  testified  to  the  giving  of  these 
revelations,  but  time  does  not  permit  to  read  his  testimony,  but  it  was 
in  substance  to  the  effect  that  there  was  no  interlining,  no  reviewing, 
no  reading  back,  no  corrections,  but  he  simply  dictated  it,  so  that  a 
person  writing  longhand  could  conveniently  take  it,  and  when  his 
dictation  was  through  the  revelation  was  complete. 

My  own  testimony  is  that  the  revelations  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  are  beyond  the  wisdom  of  man.  That  is  true  of  the  least 
revelation.  Take,  perhaps,  the  shortest,  the  second  section,  outlining 
all  our  great  temple  work  in  the  turning  of  the  hearts  of  the  children 
to  the  fathers  and  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children.  That 
is  above  the  wisdom  of  man,  as  also  the  20th,  107th,  84th,  and  124th, 
sections,  the  four  great  charters  of  the  P/iesthood,  or  revelations  on 
the  Priesthood,  which,  by  the  way,  the  priesthood  here  assembled 
should  be  very  familiar  with,  as  many  of  them  no  doubt  are,  and  other 
revelations,  too  numerous  to  mention,  such  as  the  59th,  the  93rd, 
76th,  87th,  88th  and  89th  sections.  Indeed  any  one  of  them  is  above 
the  wisdom  of  the  young  man  Joseph,  and  above  the  wisdom  of  any  of 
his  associates,  and  above  the  wisdom  of  the  world  today.  That  is  my 
testimony,  and  I  bear  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  first  and  third  verses  of  the  hymn, 
"Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah." 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS  135 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

Brethren  and  sisters :  A  solemn  thought  comes  to  me  as  I  stand  be- 
fore you.  It  is  this:  The  Lord  said:  "I  give  unto  men  weakness 
that  they  may  be  humble;  and  my  grace  is  sufficient  for  all  men 
that  humble  themselves  before  me;  for  if  they  humble  themselves 
before  me,  and  have  faith  in  me,  then  will  I  make  things  become 
strong  unto  them." 

The  Apostle  Paul,  by  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  declared : 
"But  we  have  this  treasure  in  earthen  vessels,  that  the  excellency 
of  the  power  may  be  of  God,  and  not  of  us." 

There  were  those  in  Paul's  day  who  made  the  statement  that 
bis  bodily  presence  was  weak ;  but  in  that  earthen  vessel  was  the 
courageous  spirit,  the  power  of  the  Priesthood  and  the  Holy  Ghost 
that  magnified  the  name  of  the  Lord,  and  that  preached  Jesus 
Christ  and  him  crucified  to  all  the  people  who  would  listen  to  the 
apostle's  message. 

We  should  look  upon  the  manner  of  our  redemption  not  only 
with  respect  and  gratitude,  but  also  with  deep  love  and  affection. 
In  the  body  of  the  Babe  of  Bethlehem  was  the  mighty  God,  the  ever- 
lasting Father,  the  God  of  heaven,  who  came  down  to  redeem  his 
people. 

What  was  there  in  that  young  child  to  incite  the  murderous 
impulses  in  the  heart  of  the  wicked  King  Herod?  The  child  ap- 
peared to  mortal  eyes  much  like  other  children,  except  to  those 
whom  God  had  given  the  light  to  see  that  the  Son  of  Mary  was 
God,  the  Savior.  The  evil  power  moved  Herod  to  seek  the  life 
of  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father,  because  the  promised  Son  was 
a  revelation  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  who  came  to  save 
mankind  by  his  atoning  blood.  He  was  the  Resurrection  and  the 
Life. 

When  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  related  to  sectarian  ministers 
the  account  of  his  glorious  vision  in  which  he  beheld  the  Father  and 
the  Son,  they  laughed  him  to  scorn  and  persecuted  him.  After 
accomplishing  all  the  work  God  had  given  him  to  do,  he  sealed  his 
testimony  with  his  blood  as  a  martyr  for  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
What  was  there  in  that  boy  to  stir  up  hate  and  murder  in  the 
hearts  of  those  who  persecuted  him  and  sought  his  life?  The  evil 
one  revealed  to  them  that  here  was  a  man  who  came  to  declare  to 
the  world  that  God  lived,  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ.  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  man  sent  from  God  to  fill  the  earth  with  the  knowledge  of 
the  Lord  and  to  restore  the  true  and  everlasting  gospel  for  the 
salvation  of  the  children  of  men. 

The  remark  is  sometimes  heard  among  us  that  the  world  looks 
with  more  complacency  upon  a  prophet  than  it  did  a  generation 


136  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ago.  This  is  not  true,  and  those  who  entertain  that  idea  are  de- 
ceiving themselves.  The  same  power  that  hated  the  Savior  has 
always  hated  and  will  always  hate  the  prophets  he  sends  into  the 
world.  "If  ye  were  of  the  world,  the  world  would  love  his  own : 
but  because  ye  are  not  of  the  world,  but  I  have  chosen  you  out  of 
the  world,  therefore  the  world  hateth  you." 

A  few  years  ago,  shortly  after  the  World  War,  I  had  a  con- 
versation with  a  prominent  minister.  He  was  a  great  preacher  of 
the  gospel  as  he  understood  it.  In  manner  he  was  courteous,  and 
his  questions  indicated  a  tolerant  spirit.  At  the  close  of  our  talk 
I  said  to  him :  "Doctor,  do  you  not  think  that  this  great  war  and 
this  terrible  epidemic  of  influenza  foreshadow  some  great  event 
such  as  the  second  coming  of  the  Son  of  God?"  He  replied:  "I 
think  so  now,  but  if  a  man  eight  years  ago  had  told  us  that  this 
war  and  epidemic  would  come,  we  would  have  laughed  him  to  scorn 
and  then  crucified  him."  I  said :  "Doctor,  men  did  crucify  just 
such  a  man."  Then  to  relieve  the  deep  astonishment  depicted  on 
the  churchman's  countenance,  I  told  him  the  story  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  the  marvelous  predictions  that  he  made,  by 
revelation  from  the  Lord,  of  the  Civil  War,  the  World  War  and  the 
desolating  sickness  and  the  overflowing  scourge  that  should  cover 
the  land. 

I  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  in  earthen  vessels 
ihere  is  power,  there  is  a  heavenly  treasure.  In  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  there  was  a  heavenly  treasure,  an  immortal  spirit,  the  power 
and  calling  of  the  holy  Priesthood  and  the  Holy  Ghost  by  which 
he  established  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  in 
all  its  beauty  and  power,  divinely  commissioned  to  preach  the 
gospel  to  prepare  the  way  for  the  second  coming  of  the  Lord. 

And  I  testify  that  in  the  missionaries,  earthen  vessels,  the 
Holy  Ghost  dwells,  and  by  this  they  know,  by  first-hand  knowledge 
and  not  second-hand,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  By  that  treasure  and 
power  they  are  preaching  the  restored  gospel,  reproving  the  world 
of  sin,  and  God  is  blessing  their  labors. 

The  President  of  the  Church  has  the  same  treasure,  the  same 
power,  keys,  and  authority  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  had,  a'nd 
all  the  leaders  of  the  Church,  and  the  officers  laboring  under  their 
direction  have  these  treasures  and  the  calling  and  authority  that 
belong  to  the  particular  offices  to  which  they  have  been  appointed, 
to  declare  God's  message  to  the  people  to  whom  they  are  sent  and 
among  whom  they  labor.  This  testimony  I  bear,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

A  Lamanite  brother  from  Washakie  will  now  speak  to  us.  His 
remarks  will  be  interpreted  by  his  bishop,  Elder  George  M.  Ward. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  137 

We  have  150  members  of  the  Church  in  Washakie.  I  understand 
that  this  Lamanite  brother  said  he  would  like  the  opportunity  of 
saying  a  few  words  here,  and  we  are  glad  to  have  him  do  so. 
Brother  Frank  Warner,  a  brother  of  our  Lamanite  who  is  coming 
to  the  stand,  filled  a  number  of  very  fine  missions  among  the 
Lamanites  in  different  sections  of  the  United  States. 

YEAHGAH  TIMBIMBOO 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  I  am  glad  to  meet  here  with  you  in 
conference.  This  is  the  first  time  in  my  life  I  have  stood  here  and 
spoken  to  an  audience.  In  my  childhood  I  understood  nothing  of 
the  services  of  this  people.  I  had  seen  them  going  to  Church. 
Not  until  I  yielded  obedience  unto  the  word  of  God  and  accepted 
the  ordinances  of  the  gospel  did  I  know  what  they  were  doing. 
Since  I  have  accepted  this  gospel  T  have  felt  to  be  a  friend  to  this 
people,  and  I  have  no  desire  to  kill,  or  to  do  anything  wrong  that 
would  displease  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

I  believe  the  Lord  is  in  existence.  In  my  younger  days  I  was 
sent  with  others  to  this  country  towards  the  west  in  search  of  a 
Great  Spirit.  But  I  have  found  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  among 
this  people.  While  in  search  of  that  Great  Spirit,  the  company  of 
Indians  traveled  by  foot  day  and  night,  and  endured  hardships, 
hunger  and  thirst.  When  we  did  reach  our  destination  in  the  west, 
we  found  it  was  the  elders  of  this  Church,  and  we  were  baptized 
by  those  elders.  Since  I  have  been  baptized  and  accepted  this 
gospel  I  feel  to  live  it  to  the  best  of  my  ability.  And  it  encourages 
us  one  and  all  to  live  sacred  lives  before  the  Lord  and  keep  his 
commandments,  as  we  have  been  instructed  during  this  conference. 

I  look  upon  these  men  sitting  here  the  same  as  I  look  upon  our 
heavenly  Father.  I  want  to  be  obedient  unto  them  and  their  teach- 
ings. Upon  one  occasion  in  my  life  I  was  very  sick  and  my  spirit 
left  my  body  and  went  to  my  Creator,  and  the  Creator  would  not 
accept  my  spirit,  but  it  was  sent  back  to  my  body.  And  now  I 
testify  that  I  am  a  living  witness  to  this  thing.  I  rejoice  in  the 
work  that  I  have  accomplished  in  this  Church,  the  acceptance  of  the 
ordinances  of  the  gospel,  the  performance  of  the  same  in  my  own 
behalf  and  the  work  that  I  have  accomplished  in  behalf  of  my  dead 
kindred. 

I  ifeel  that  the  earth  is  the  Lord's  and  the  fulness  thereof  is 
his,  and  we  are  his  children  and  are  placed  here  to  obey  him. 
Everything  that  we  receive  from  this  earth  in  the  shape  of  grain,  I 
feel  is  a  blessing  from  the  Lord  unto  us,  and  that  we  should  con- 
sider it  such,  and  thank  the  Lord  for  these  blessings.  I  want  to 
encourage  you  to  be  faithful  and  serve  the  Lord  and  keep  his  com- 
mandments. You  people  have  the  advantage  of  me.  You  can 
read  the  word  of  God  from  the  scriptures  and  can  store  it  up  in 


138  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

your  minds  and  prepare  yourselves  to  live  it.  I,  being  unable  to  read, 
have  to  get  my  instructions  from  my  bishop  and  remember  them, 
and  whenever  he  calls  upon  me  I  depend  upon  the  Lord  to  bless 
me  with  his  Spirit  to  bring  to  my  mind  the  things  I  should  say. 
1  am  in  this  position  this  morning,  called  unexpectedly  to  stand 
here  before  you,  and  I  have  expressed  the  few  things  that  I  have 
spoken  under  the  direction  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  wish  to  say  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  undoubtedly 
spent  more  money  and  more  time  in  endeavoring  to  educate  and 
benefit  the  Lamanite  people,  whom  we  believe  to  be  the  descend- 
ants of  the  father  Lehi,  than  any  other  people.  The  Church  today, 
I  believe,  numbers  among  its  converts  in  Hawaii  over  one-half  the 
native  population  of  that  land.  We  are  given  the  credit  by  leading  offi- 
cials in  that  land  of  having  done  more  for  the  uplift,  morally,  intellectu- 
ally and  physically,  and  for  the  temporal  benefit  of  the  people  of 
Hawaii  than  all  other  missionaries  who  have  been  in  that  land. 
And  we  have  invested  there  at  the  present  time  in  plantations 
considerably  more  than  a  million  and  a  half  dollars  in  money. 

We  have  assisted  the  Indians  in  Arizona  and  in  different  parts 
of  Utah  and  Montana,  and  have  done  everything  within  our  power 
for  the  benefit  of  this  people,  and  we  look  forward  to  the  day  when 
hundreds  and  thousands  of  them  will  be  abundantly  blessed  of  the 
Lord,  and  when  they  shall  eventually  become  a  white  and  a  delight- 
some people. 

As  a  closing  number,  the  congregation  sang  "High  on  the  mountain 
top;"  and  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Thomas  W.  Johnson  of  the 
Beaver  stake  of  Zion. 

The  conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

On  Tuesday  afternoon,  April  6,  the  closing  session  of  the  con- 
ference was  held  in  the  Tabernacle. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  "Come,  come  ye  saints." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  J.  Fred  Corbett,  pres- 
ident of  the  Idaho  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  "O  my  Father,  thou  that 
dwellest." 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON  139 

ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  It  is  a  thrilling,  yes,  an  almost  over- 
powering experience,  to  stand  before  a  great  congregation  such  as  is 
assembled  here,  and  endeavor  to  preach  to  them  the  word  of  God. 
We  have  had  some  very  wonderful  meetings  during  the  past  three 
days,  and  now  we  have  come  to  the  last  session  of  the  conference. 
These  general  conferences  recur  at  regular  periods;  nevertheless,  they 
always  come  with  a  freshness  and  variety  of  instruction  that  is  very 
delightful. 

It  is  not  expected  of  me  to  present  to  you  any  new  doctrine.  I 
have  no1  new  doctrine  to  offer,  and  if  there  were  any  such  to  be  given 
to  the  Church,  it  would  be  the  duty  and  privilege  of  the  President  of 
the  Church  to  announce  it,  he  being  the  man  who  holds  the  keys.  This 
is  a  principle  that  ought  to  be  well  understood  by  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

WE  ARE  DECIDEDLY  A  CHRISTIAN  CHURCH 

President  Ivins  in  his  remarks  yesterday  alluded  to  the  fact  that 
the  "Mormon"  Church  is  sometimes  referred  to  in  the  world  as  being 
an  un-Christian  church,  that  we  are  not  a  Christian  people.  If  I  re- 
member correctly,  and  perhaps  President  Ivins  mentioned  the  fact  that 
in  1893,  at  the  great  parliament  of  religions,  the  "Mormon"  Church 
was  denied  admission  because  it  was  regarded  as  not  being  a  Christian 
church.  Now  it  appears  to  me  that  with  the  facts  which  are  readily  at 
hand  and  within  reach  of  any  investigator,  it  is  easily  seen  that  we  are 
decidedly  a  Christian  church.  Ours  is  the  only  Church  that  bears  the 
name  of  the  Savior.  It  is  called  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  that  alone,  if  we  are  sincere  in  our  belief,  and  we  are, 
is  sufficient  proof  that  we  are  Christians. 

OUR  STANDARD  TEXTS 

I  have  here  on  the  stand  the  standard  works  of  the  Church — the 
Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the  Pearl 
of  Great  Price.  These  are  the  works  that  will  be  found  upon  almost 
every  pulpit  in  the  Church,  in  all  our  places  of  worship  and  in  the 
temples  also  as  well  as  in  the  homes  of  the  Saints.  Let  us  pause  for  a 
moment  and  as  briefly  as  possible  consider  these  wonderful  books.  What 
is  the  Bible?  The  Bible  is  a  book  of  scripture  that  contains  the  word  of 
God  as  transmitted  to  his  people  on  the  eastern  hemisphere;  and  not 
only  a  book  of  scripture,  but  a  book  of  historical  character,  because  it 
deals  with  the  purposes  of  God  and  his  providences  in  the  journeyings 
and  travels  of  his  people.  It  covers  a  period  from  Adam  down  to  Christ 
and  his  Apostles.  Somebody  might  say,  "Is  that  the  only  Bible  you  have 
in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  ?"  The  answer  is, 
Yes,  that  is  the  only  Bible  we  have.  We  have  other  books  of  scripture, 
but  they  are  not  known  and  not  referred  to  under  that  title. 

THE   HOLY  BIBLE 

I  am  free  to  state  on  this  occasion,  in  the  midst  of  this  great  congre- 


140  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

gation,  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  accepts 
the  Bible  for  what  it  purports  to  be.  We  hold  it  in  reverence,  and  to  us 
it  is  a  holy  book ;  and  a  couplet  that  is  very  often  used  in  connection  with 
the  Bible  is  very  pleasing  to  us,  namely:  "Holy  Bible,  book  Divine, 
precious  treasure  thou  art  mine."  The  Bible  sets  forth  in  clearness  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  That  is  perhaps  its  main  value.  I  speak  of  this 
because  the  gospel  involves  principles  that  are  everlasting  in  their 
character.  They  always  existed,  and  they  will  always  exist.  For  that 
reason  these  principles  of  salvation  are  applicable  to  all  times  and  all 
nations  throughout  the  world.  It  must  be  apparent  to  anyone  who 
studies  the  Bible  that  there  were  certain  commandments  given  therein, 
very  important  and  sacred  commandments,  which  do  not  apply  to  us. 
This  cannot  be  said,  however,  of  the  Ten  Commandments.  They  are 
of  a  general  character  and  their  application  is  general,  and,  as  stated 
here  by  one  of  the  speakers,  the  Ten  Commandments  form  a  basis  for 
all  law.  If  they  were  local  commandments  they  would  not  apply  to  us, 
and  would,  perhaps,  have  no  particular  value  in  guiding  our  movements. 
That  fact  alone  naturally  suggests  that  the  Church  of  God,  whenever 
it  is  upon  the  earth,  is  in  need  of  direct  revelation.  People  require  the 
word  of  God  that  is  suited  to  their  day  and  time.  The  Bible  represents 
very  great  authority,  but  it  does  not  impart  any  authority.  Here  is  a 
distinction  that  should  always  be  borne  in  mind. 

THE  BOOK   OF    MORMON 

The  Book  of  Mormon  is  also  a  record  of  scripture.  We  prize 
it  very  highly.  We  study  it  and  search  it,  for  we  claim  it  to  be  the 
word  of  God.  It  was  written  by  the  hand  of  Mormon,  who  was  a 
prophet  among  the  people  of  the  western  hemisphere,  or  America,  as 
it  is  now  known.  He  was  a  great  prophet  among  the  people  in  the  day 
in  which  he  wrote.  The  Book  of  Mormon  had  its  beginning  about  600 
years  before  Christ,  and  its  ending  about  420  years  after  Christ,  cover- 
ing a  period  of  about  1,000  years.  Surely  anyone  who  will  give  the 
Book  of  Mormon  a  careful  study  will  be  driven  to  the  conclusion,  if  he 
is  sincere-minded,  that  wonderful  things  were  accomplished  during  that 
period.  The  people  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  were  called  Nephites,  after 
one  of  their  first  prophets.  Nephi  was  the  son  of  Lehi,  who  was  the 
founder  of  the  nation,  and  surely  it  was  a  great  nation.  The  Nephites 
themselves  as  a  people  passed  away  about  1,400  years  ago ;  nevertheless, 
they  have  some  representatives  still  upon  the  earth.  The  Lamanite  who 
stood  here  this  morning  and  bore  his  testimony,  and  a  very  wonderful 
testimony  it  was,  is  a  descendant  of  Lehi  through  one  of  his  sons  who 
was  called  Laman,  who  was  a  brother  of  Nephi.  The  descendants  of 
these  men  are  called  Lamanites,  otherwise  known  as  American  Indians. 
So  we  had  a  Lamanite  here  to  speak  to  us  this  morning,  and  he  bore 
a  faithful  testimony.  It  was  very  wonderful  to  hear  him.  He  spoke 
in  his  own  language  and  it  was  interpreted  by  the  Bishop  of  his  ward. 

Now  the  principal  value  of  the  Book  of  Mjormon,  as  a  standard 
work  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  lies  in  the  fact 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON  141 

that  it  contains  an  account  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  set 
forth  in  very  great  clearness.  It  is  learned  through  this  sacred  record 
that  the  Savior  after  his  crucifixion  visited  the  people  of  Nephi.  It 
is  not  to  be  wondered  at  that  he  visited  them,  because  the  Nephites 
were  of  Israel,  being  descendants  of  Jacob,  and  could  properly  be  called 
a  branch  of  the  house  of  Israel.  Since  the  Savior  deigned  to  appear  to 
his  own  people  after  his  resurrection  at  Jerusalem,  is  it  to  be  wondered 
at  that  he  visited  this  branch  of  the  house  of  Israel  ?  Well,  the  account 
says  that  he  did  visit  them,  and  the  record  further  tells  us  that  he 
organized  his  Church  among  them,  and  strange  to  say — and  yet  I  ought 
not  to  use  that  expression — gave  to  his  Church  in  this  land  twelve 
apostles.  He  also  gave  to  the  Church  such  other  officers  of  the  priesthood 
as  were  given  to  the  Church  in  his  day.  He  ordained  high  priests, 
seventies  and  elders,  priests,  teachers  and  deacons.  The  Church  of 
the  Nephites,  corresponded  exactly  in  every  detail  with  the  Church  of 
Christ  in  the  land  of  Palestine. 

Now  I  tell  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  there  is  something  very  beau- 
tiful in  a  comparison  of  this  kind,  something  that  is  faith-promoting, 
something  that  is  very  enlightening. 

In  addition  to  the  plan  of  redemption,  or,  the  everlasting  gospel, 
that  was  given  to  the  Nephites,  we  have  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  a  brief 
history  of  their  travels  and  of  the  ministry  of  their  prophets.  It  is  a 
book  that  is  published  to  the  world.  If  anybody  should  ask  me :  "Well, 
isn't  it  a  Bible,  isn't  it  your  Bible?"  I  would  answer,  "No.  It  is  our 
Book  of  Mormon.  'We  do  not  call  it  the  Bible.  There  is  only  one 
book  which  has  that  title.  This  is  the  Book  of  Mormon."  If  they 
should  say,  "Well  it  is  a  book  of  scriptures,  isn't  it?"  We  answer: 
"Surely  j£  is,  and  we  put  it  forth  as  such." 

THE  DOCTRINE  AND  COVENANTS 

Coming  down  to  our  own  day  we  form  a  distinct  and  separate 
people  from  those  great  nations  that  have  gone  before;  namely:  the 
Israelites  of  the  eastern  hemisphere  and  the  Nephites  of  the  western 
hemisphere.  We  have  received  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  this  day 
and  time,  and  it  came  to  us  direct  from  heaven.  We  did  not  get  it 
from  any  other  church  or  denomination  under  heaven.  We  have  another 
book  of  scripture  that  is  very  precious  indeed.  It  has  been  referred  to, 
as  have  been  these  other  books  in  this  conference.  It  is  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  which  contains  seventy-two  to  seventy-six  revelations, 
given  to  the  people  of  our  day  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and 
is  declared  to  be,  the  word  of  the  Lord  to  his  Church.  Strange  to  say, 
and  yet  I  must  not  use  the  word  "strange,"  the  book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  in  its  doctrines  corresponds  exactly  with  the  teachings  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  corresponds  exactly  with  the  teachings  of 
the  Bible.  I  am,  therefore,  justified  in  saying  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  have  three  powerful  witnesses  of  the  truth  of  the  gospel. 


142  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

HOW  THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON  BEARS   UPON   THE   SUBJECT 

Now,  in  conclusion,  permit  me  to  read  just  a  few  words  from  the 
Book  of  Mormon  which  have  a  bearing  upon  this  topic,  and  are  very 
instructive.  Nephi,  the  (Prophet  to  whom  I  have  referred,  II  Nephi 
28  and  29,  uses  language  somewhat  like  this : 

"Yea,  wo  be  unto  him  that  hearkeneth  unto  the  precepts  of  men,  and 
denieth  the  power  of  God,  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost! 

"Yea,  wo  be  unto  him  that  saith :  We  have  received  and  we  need  no 
more! 

"And  in  fine,  wo  be  unto  all  those  who  tremble,  and  are  angry  because 
of  the  truth  of  God!  For  behold,  he  that  is  built  upon  the  rock  receiveth  it 
with  gladness;  and  he  that  is  built  upon  a  sandy  foundation  trembleth  lest 
he  shall  fall. 

"Wo  be  unto  him  that  shall  say:  We  have  received  the  word  of  God, 
and  we  need  no  more  of  the  word  of  God,  for  we  have  enough! 

"For  behold,  thus  saith  the  Lord  God :  I  will  give  unto  the  children 
of  men  line  upon  line,  precept  upon  precept,  here  a  little  and  there  a  little; 
and  blessed  are  those  who  harken  unto  my  precepts,  and  lend  an  ear  unto 
my  counsel,  for  they  shall  learn  wisdom;  for  unto  him  that  receiveth  I  will 
give  more;  and  from  them  that  shall  say,  We  have  enough,  from  them  shall 
be  taken  away  even  that  which  they  have." 

And  again  briefly : 

"And  because  my  words  shall  hiss  forth — many  of  the  gentiles  shall  say: 
A  Bible!     A  Bible!    We  have  got  a  Bible  and  there  cannot  be  any  more  Bible. 

"But  thus  saith  the  Lord  God:  O  fools,  they  shall  have  a  Bible;  and 
it  shall  proceed  forth  from  the  Jews,  mine  ancient  covenant  people.  And 
what  thank  they  the  Jews  for  the  Bible  which  they  receive  from  them? 
Yea,  what  do  the  Gentiles  mean?  Do  they  remember  the  travel^  and  the 
labors,  and  the  pains  of  the  Jews,  and  their  diligence  unto  me,  in  bringing 
forth   salvation   unto  the   gentiles? 

"O  ye  Gentiles,  have  ye  remembered  the  Jews,  mine  ancient  covenant 
people?  Nay;  but  ye  have  cursed  them,  and  have  hated  them,  and  have  not 
sought  to  recover  them.  But  behold,  I  will  return  all  these  things  upon  your 
own  heads,  for  I  the  Lord  have  not  forgotten  my  people. 

"Thou  fool,  that  shall  say:  A  Bible,  we  have  got  a  Bible,  and  we  need 
no  more  Bible.     Have  ye  obtained  a  Bible  save  it  were  by  the  Jews? 

"Know  ye  not  that  there  are  more  nations  than  one?  Know  ye  not 
that  I,  the  Lord  your  God,  have  created  all  men,  and  that  I  remember  those 
who  are  upon  the  isles  of  the  sea;  and  that  I  rule  in  the  heavens  above 
and  in  the  earth  beneath;  and  I  bring  forth  my  word  unto  the  children  of 
men,  yea,  even  upon  all  the  nations  of  the  earth? 

"Wherefore  murmur  ye,  because  that  ye  shall  receive  more  of  my 
word?  Know  ye  not  that  the  testimony  of  two  nations  is  a  witness  unto 
you  that  I  am  God,  that  I  remember  one  nation  like  unto  another?  Where- 
fore, I  speak  the  same  words  unto  one  nation  like  unto  another.  And  when 
the  two  nations  shall  run  together  the  testimony  of  the  two  nations  shall 
run  together  also." 

God  bless  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  143 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Time  is  very  precious  today,  as  it  is  always,  and  I  desire  most 
earnestly  that  the  few  moments  I  occupy  will  be  profitable  to  this 
vast  congregation. 

A  MARVELOUS  AGE 

We  are  living  in  a  marvelous  age,  in  the  Dispensation  of  the 
Fulness  of  Times.  All  the  other  dispensations  that  have  gone  be- 
fore are  culminating  in  this  one.  The  Lord  tells  us  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  to  which  President  Clawson  has  just  referred,  that  at 
the  time  of  the  coming  forth  jof  that  book,  he  would  commence  his 
work  among  all  the  nations,  and  it  is  remarkable  that  since  the 
publication  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  more  important  discoveries  and 
inventions  have  been  presented  to  mankind  than  in  all  the  ages 
that  have  gone  before.  Science  has  developed  many  wonderful 
Ihings.  Labor-saving  devices  have  made  our  work  much  easier 
than  before.  Electricity,  which  has  been  in  the  world  from  the 
beginning,  has  been  recently  discovered  and  has  been  so  controlled 
that  it  is  used  to  light  our  homes,  to  propel  our  street  cars  and 
railway  trains,  and  to  operate  machinery  of  all  kinds.  This  was 
unknown  one  hundred  years  ago.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  nobody  can 
tell  what  it  is  today ;  but  it  is  one  of  the  powers  in  this  universe 
that  is  controlled  by  our  Father  in  heaven.  It  would  seem  that 
everything  one  can  imagine  has  been  provided  for  our  comfort 
in  this  age.  We  have  the  accumulated  information  of  the  ages, 
2nd  surely  we  ought  to  be  inclined  to  take  advantage  of  that 
information  in  order  that  we  might  enjoy  our  lives  here  and  be 
prepared  to  enjoy  them  eternally.  In  our  great  institutions  of 
learning  men  are  devoting  their  entire  time  to  research.  There  is 
a  disposition  on  the  part  of  man  to  find  out  everything  that  is 
mysterious,  and  the  result  has  been  that  intelligent  men  have  had 
their  minds  operated  on  by  the  Spirit  of  our  heavenly  Father,  and 
many  of  the  conveniences  to  which  I  have  referred  have  been  the 
result.  In  the  science  of  medicine,  newly  discovered  anaesthetics 
have  been  a  boon  to  suffering  humanity,  and  by  their  use  the  sur- 
geon has  been  able  to  perform  wonderful  operations.  Toxins  have 
been  prepared  that  have  a  tendency  to  prevent  disease,  and  to  stop 
its  spread.  Opportunity  is  given  us  to  know  what  happens  in  all 
parts  of  the  world  each  day  through  the  great  newspapers  and 
magazines  that  are  published.  Everything  that  you  can  think  of 
in  the  way  of  comfort  and  information  has  been  presented  to  this 
dispensation.  Unfortunately,  notwithstanding  these  blessings, 
there  is  a  tendency  to  worship  the  gift  and  to  forget  the  Giver. 

THE  WISDOM,  OF  IMAN   TAUGHT 

We  have  in  our  public  schools  and  in  our  universities,  men  and 
women  who  are  trained,  their  minds  are  lighted  up  by  the  teachings 
of  men,  and  it  is  remarkable  to  what  a  degree  the  business  of  life 


144  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

has  been  brought  to  the  attention  of  the  human  family;  but  most 
of  our  schools  operate  as  a  result  of  the  wisdom  of  man  sand 
exclude  God,  the  source  of  all  truth.  We  spend  millions  of  dollars 
in  the  education  of  the  hand  and  of  the  mind,  and  we  exclude  from 
many  of  these  institutions  all  knowledge  of  our  heavenly  Father, 
who  gave  to  us  the  hand  and  the  mind.  In  fact,  there  has  been  an 
effort  made  by  some  educators  to  create  in  the  minds  of  pupils 
under  their  watchcare  a  contempt  for  the  fact  that  the  world  we 
live  in  is  controlled  by  our  Father  in  heaven. 

In  section  93  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  I  find  this  reference : 

"Light  and  truth  forsake  that  evil  one. 

"Every  spirit  of  man  was  innocent  in  the  beginning;  and  God  having 
redeemed  man  from  the  fall,  men  became  again,  in  their  infant  state,  innocent 
before  God. 

"And  that  wicked  one  cometh  and  taketh  away  light  and  truth,  through 
disobedience,  from  the  children  of  men,  and  because  of  the  tradition  of  their 
fathers. 

"But  I  have  commanded  you  to  bring  up  your  children  in  light  and 
truth." 

ADDITIONAL  LIGHT  AND  TRUTH  TO  BE  TAUGHT 

So  my  brethren  and  sisters,  while  we  can  have  our  children 
educated  in  the  arts  and  sciences  as  taught  by  men,  there  still  re- 
mains a  commandment  of  our  heavenly  Father  that  we  shall  sup- 
plement those  teachings  and  that  our  children  shall  be  reared  in 
light  and  truth.  I  find  in  this  same  section  a  reference  that  is  made 
to  one  of  the  men  of  that  time.    It  says : 

"Verily,  I  say  unto  you,  *  *  *  you  have  continued  under  this  con- 
demnation; 

"You  have  not  taught  your  children  light  and  truth,  according  to  the 
commandments;  and  that  wicked  one  hath  power,  as  yet,  over  you,  and 
this  is  the' cause  of  your  affliction." 

Now  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  realizes 
the  importance  of  teaching  children  the  things  of  God,  and  has 
given  to  us  our  auxiliary  organizations.  Our  heavenly  Father 
inspired  the  organization  of  the  Relief  Society,  the  Sabbath  School, 
the  Mutual  Improvement  Associations,  the  Primary,  the  Religion 
Class.  The  inspiration  of  the  Lord  gave  to  us  our  Church  schools 
and  our  seminaries.  All  these  are  intended  to  supplement  the 
teachings  of  men,  and  to  bring  our  children  under  an  influence  that 
shall  assist  them,  while  they  remain  here  in  the  earth  to  prepare  for 
eternal  life.  These  have  been  wonderfully  beneficial.  Then  we 
are  instructed,  even  in  our  recreation,  to  teach  our  boys  and  our 
girls  that  in  their  pastime  they  should  recognize  our  heavenly 
Father;  and  in  our  day  the  various  stakes  and  wards  of  Zion  are 
asked  to  give  special  attention  to  recreation,  in  order  that  the 
things  that  induce  our  young  people  to  follow  after  the  foolishness 
of  the  world  may  be  neutralized  by  keeping  them  in  an  influence 
that  will  incline  them  to  righteousness  and  inspire  them  to  do 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  145 

those  things  and  live  such  lives  as  shall  make  them  worthy  to  be 
called  sons  and  daughters  of  our  heavenly  Father. 

We  find  in  section  68  (of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  some- 
thing that  we  often  hear  quoted,  but  I  am  going  to  read  it  because 
it  has  application  to  these  things  I  refer  to : 

PARENTS  ,TO  TEACH  CHILDREN  THE  THINGS  OF  GOD 

"And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents  have  children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized,  that  teach  them  not  to  understand  the  doctrine 
of  repentance,  faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  and  of  baptism 
and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands,  when  eight 
years  old,  the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents. 

"For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the  inhabitants  of  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized. 

"And  their  children  shall  be  baptized  for  the  remission  of  their  sins 
when  eight  years  old,  and  receive  the  laying  on  of  the  hands. 

"And  they  shall  also  teach  their  children  to  pray,  and  to  walk  uprightly 
before  the  Lord." 

There  is  more  of  this  same  section  that  perhaps  you  are  all 
familiar  with,  but  the  point  that  I  had  in  mind,  and  what  I  am 
about  to  say  I  am  exceedingly  anxious  that  it  should  sink  into  the 
mind  of  every  parent  in  Zion,  and  that  is,  that  while  the  Lord  has 
provided  all  these  wonderful  educational  institutions,  while  science 
has  contributed  so  much  for  our  comfort  and  our  blessing,  while 
the  Church  has  prepared  places  to  which  we  may  send  our  children 
to  be  taught  the  gospel  of  Christ,  that  does  not  relieve  you  or 
me  of  the  responsibility  and  the  obligation  that  is  laid  upon  us  by 
our  heavenly  Father  to  teach  our  own  children.  And  the  Lord 
says,  wherein  we  fail  to  do  that,  even  at  the  tender  age  of  eight, 
that  the  sin  will  be  upon  our  heads.  President  Joseph  F.  Smith 
was  inspired  to  give  unto  us  the  wise  counsel  to  be  more  with  our 
children.  Notwithstanding  the  many  things  that  occupy  our  time 
— the  business  of  life,  theatres,  parties,  socials,  automobiles,  pleas- 
ure resorts,  the  canyons  and  lakes — all  these  things  that  we  may 
enjoy  in  moderation ;  notwithstanding  the  pursuit  of  life  whereby 
we  gain  a  livelihood,  that  prophet  of  the  Lord  gave  to  us  this 
advice :  That  we  should  so  arrange  our  time  that  one  evening  each 
week  would  find  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  their  own  homes,  asso- 
ciated with  their  own  children,  and  there  teach  them  the  things 
that  the  Lord  has  decreed  that  they  should  know.  It  is  not  suffi- 
cient that  my  children  are  taught  faith,  repentance  and  baptism, 
and  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  holy  Ghost  in  the 
auxiliary  organizations.  My  Father  in  heaven  has  commanded  that 
I  should  do  that  myself.  I  have  read  to  you  that  the  Lord  told 
one  man  that  the  cause  of  his  distress  was  that  he  had  not  taught 
his  children  light  and  truth.  There  is  anguish  in  some  of  the  homes 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  today  because  we  have  neglected  our 
opportunity,  and  we  have  failed  to  teach  our  children  as  we  should. 
If  the  home  evening  could  only  be  a  fact  among  the  Latter-day 


146  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saints,  if  during  one  evening  a  week  we  would  live  with  our  own, 
under  the  influence  of  the  spirit  of  the  Lord,  at  our  own  firesides 
surrounded  by  those  whom  the  Lord  has  given  unto  us,  and  told 
us,  particularly,  that  we  should  instruct  them,  how  many  happy 
homes  there  would  be  where  today  there  is  sorrow  and  discord  and 
distress.  Fathers  and  mothers  would  elicit  from  their  children  that 
respect  that  is  due  to  parents  who  are  model  parents,  and  who  have 
in  their  hearts  a  desire  to  teach  their  loved  ones.  We  are  told  in 
Luke  that  there  would  be  a  time  when  men  would  be  choked  with 
the  cares  and  the  riches  and  the  pleasures  of  life.  I  have  in  my 
mind,  as  I  stand  here  even  now,  men  and  women  that  I  love,  whose 
very  spirituality  is  being  choked  by  these  very  things,  and  the 
adversary  is  leading  them  along  that  easy  pathway  of  pleasure  and 
they  are  nelecting  their  duty  as  parents  and  as  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 

THE   DUTY    WE   OWE    TO   OUR    CHILDREN 

It  was  said  by  one  of  the  speakers  that  your  commission,  you 
men  of  Israel,  is  from  God  .the  eternal  Father.  The  holy  Priesthood 
has  been  conferred  upon  us,  and  if  we  exercise  it  as  we  should,  as 
we  have  a  right  to  do  in  our  homes,  when  we  shut  out  the  world 
;:nd  the  things  of  the  outside,  and  under  the  power  of  prayer  and 
thanksgiving  we  give  to  our  sons  and  daughters  those  rich  truths 
that  the  Lord  has  deposited  with  us  for  our  welfare  and  for  theirs, 
a  genuine  development  of  faith  will  follow.  I  hope  that  it  will  be 
possible  for  us  to  return,  if  we  have  departed  from  that  adyice. 
Gather  our  children  around  us  and  let  our  homes  be  the  abiding 
place  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  If  we  will  do  our  part,  we  may 
know  and  be  sure  that  our  heavenly  Father  will  do  his.  Let  us 
avail  ourselves  of  all  the  information  that  it  is  possible  to  ob- 
tain in  the  world;  it  will  rise  with  us  in  the!  resurrection.  I  am 
grateful  for  the  great  men  and  women  who  give  their  lives  for  the 
education  of  the  human  family,  and  I  am  grateful  to  God  that  he 
has  given  to  us  in  this  latter  day  a  knowledge  that  the  wisdom  of 
man  is  not  sufficient,  but  it  takes  the  wisdom  of  our  heavenly 
Father  to  prepare  us  for  eternal  life  in  his  celestial  kingdom.  Are 
you  satisfied  with  the  thought  that  your  children  will  go  to  the 
terrestrial  or  the  telestial  kingdom  ?  Are  you  satisfied  that  you 
shall  inherit  either  of  these  lesser  kingdoms?  It  is  that  you 
might  enjoy  the  celestial  kingdom  that  the  Priesthood  of  the  living 
God  has  been  conferred  upon  men  in  this  day.  It  is  that  we 
might  gain  the  celestial  glory  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has 
been  given  to  the  children  of  men.  Now  in  the  midst  of  confusion, 
excitement  and  all  the  pleasures  of  life,  let  us  not  lose  sight  of 
the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  and  let 
us  not  lose  sight  of  the  duty  that  we  owe  these  boys  and  girls  who 
are  created  in  the  image  of  God.    He  is  the  Father  of  their  spirits, 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  147 

and  he  will  hold  us  responsible  for  the  teaching  that  they  receive. 
I  hope  and  pray  that  we  will  so  teach  them  that  when  the  end 
shall  come  we  can  receive  from  him  that  blessing,  "Well  done, 
good  and  faithful  servant,  enter  into  the  joy  of  thy  Lord,"  and  that 
we  may  have  our  loved  ones  with  us  eternally,  is  my  prayer,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

A  soprano  solo,  "Beautiful  Zion  for  me,"  was  sung'  by  Lily 
Shipp  Burton. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

"Beautiful  Zion  For  Me,"  was  written  by  Brother  Charles  W. 
Penrose  upon  the  spur  of  the  moment  when  bidding  good-bye  to  Brig- 
ham  Young,  Jr.,  who  had  presided  over  the  European  mission,  and  who 
was  about  to  sail  for  home.  Brother  Penrose  remarked,  "Oh,  Brigham, 
beautiful  Zion  for  me !  I  wish  I  were  going  with  you."  Then  he 
asked  Brother  Brigham  Young,  Jr.,  "Do  you  know  the  tune,  'Beautiful 
Isle  of  the  Sea?'"  And  he  said,  "Yes."  "All  right,  I  will  write 
you  a  hymn  to  that  tune  that  you  can  sing  on  the  ocean."  And  Pres- 
ident Penrose  wrote  this  hymn.  i 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

On  occasions  of  this  character  there  is  an  obligation  resting 
upon  each  member  of  the  Church  present,  perhaps  the  greatest  re- 
sponsibility is  upon  those  who  are  called  upon  to  instruct  the  people. 

PRAYER  IS  OF  GREAT  BENEFIT 

We  all  have  need  of  the  help  jour  Lord  so  generously  gives, 
when  sought  after  in  the  way  that  he  has  appointed.  Our  singers 
need  help  that  they  may  have  control  of  their  voices,  that  they  may 
have  the  spirit  of  these  hymns  and  songs  which  are  sung,  that  the  song 
may  be  as  a  prayer  unto  the  Lord,  that  it  may  be  an  acceptable  feature 
of  our  worship,  and  be  answered  with  blessings  upon  our  heads,  and 
that  they  may  be  able,  not  only  to  be  heard,  but  to  be  understood. 
The  individuals  who  pray  need  help  that  they  may  be  able  to  voice  the 
sentiments  and  feelings  of  the  members  of  the  congregation,  for  they 
are  not  offering  an  individual  prayer,  but  a  prayer  for  the  whole 
people,  expressive  of  their  thoughts  and  feelings.  The  speaker  needs 
that  help  which  the  Saints  can  give  by  their  prayers  of  faith.  The 
Lord  has  said  that  the  prayers  of  a  righteous  man  availeth  much  with 
the  Lord.  This  being  the  case,  the  prayer,  silent  and  secret  though  it 
be,  of  many  faithful  men  and  women  is  sure  to  avail  more  with  the 
Lord,  and  if  we  all  do  our  duty  in  the  spirit  of  worship  when  we  come 
together  on  such  occasions,  our  worship  will  not  only  be  approved  of  the 
Lord,  but  will  be  sanctified  to  our  blessing  and  salvation. 

THE    SPIRIT   OF    GOD,   THE   SOUL   OF    THE    CHURCH 

The   Apostle   Paul   in   an  epistle  to  the   Corinthians  made   com- 


148  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

parison  of  the  Church  and  the  offices  thereof  with  the  human  body, 
and  made  the  declaration  that  one  member  could  not  say  to  another : 
"I  have  no  need  of  thee,"  for  all  the  members  are  necessary.  Not- 
withstanding the  perfection  of  this  organism  of  man  which  God  has 
created,  there  is  something  within,  that  is  the  spirit,  that  if  it  were 
lacking  this  body  would  be  as  the  dust  of  the  earth,  there  would  be 
no  virtue  in  it.  And  so  it  is  with  the  Church  of  Christ  and  the  officers 
therein.  But  for  the  Spirit  of  God,  which  is  the  very  soul  of  the 
Church,  of  our  religion,  of  "Mormonism,"  it  would  be  powerless  to 
accomplish  its  destiny  in  the  earth.  There  is  in  this  thing  called  "Mor- 
monism" a  spirit,  a  spiritual  life,  and  I  fear  that  many  of  us  have  not 
found  it.  I  fear  that  we  are  too  mechanical  in  our  prayers,  in  our 
worship,  and  in  our  service  of  God.  When  this  spirit  is  upon  us  we 
feel  the  truth  and  see  the  beauty  of  the  gospel  which  we  have  received. 
Our  souls  are  lighted  up  by  it  and  we  have  the  spirit  of  testimony  and 
a  knowledge  of  the  truth.  It  is  the  spirit  of  revelation,  it  is  the  spirit 
by  which  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God  has  been  set  up  and  by  which 
the  work  has  been  conducted  up  to  the  present  time.  We  can  have 
this  spirit  with  us  and  have  its  manifestation  if  we  will  live  for  it, 
my  brethren  and  sisters.  We  must  make  these  tabernacles  of  ours, 
which  are  the  temples  of  God,  fit  to  receive  the  Holy  Ghost  that  he 
may  dwell  within  us,  that  we  may  be  inspired  by  him  in  that  which 
we  have  to  do  in  life,  to  see  aright,  to  feel  aright,  and  to  act  aright,' 
that  our  administrations  and  our  lives  may  be  acceptable  unto  God.  We 
cannot  do  this  work  assigned  to  us,  we  cannot  live  our  religion  ac- 
ceptably to  the  Lord  without  his  help. 

THE  SPIRIT  COMES  TO  THOSE  WHO  ARE  WILLING 

If  we  obtain  his  help  it  must  be  through  his  holy  Spirit,  and  if  we 
would  have  that  Spirit  we  must  live  for  it  holy  lives,  being  al- 
together worthy  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord,  then  we  must  have  a  willing 
spirit,  willing  to  receive  that  which  the  Lord  has  to  give  us,  willing 
to  give  that  which  the  Lord  desires  at  our  hands,  whether  it  be  our 
time,  our  talents,  our  means,  or  our  lives,  we  must  have  that  willingness 
of  spirit  that  we  will  place  all  upon  the  altar  to  be  used  by  the  Lord  for 
the  accomplishment  of  his  purposes,  the  saving  of  the  souls  of  his 
children.  We  must  recognize  that  authority  which  the  Lord  has  placed 
here  in  the  earth,  in  his  Church,  for  he  has  said :  "Whether  it  be  by  my 
own  mouth,  or  by  the  mouth  of  my  servant,  it  is  the  same."  So,  when 
a  call  is  made  upon  us  by  those  who  are  in  authority,  we  should  regard 
it  as  a  call  from  the  Lord,  and  never  refuse  to  accept  that  call,  no 
matter  what  of  sacrifice  it  may  entail.  We  should  receive  these  things 
with  grateful  hearts,  having  that  faith  and  trust  in  God  that  it  will 
mean  to  us  honor  and  glory  in  the  life  to  come  which  it  certainly  will 
if  we  magnify  these  callings  and  the  work  which  is  assigned  to  us. 
We  are  here  to  learn  what  the  will  of  God  is  concerning  us  and  to  do 
his  will,  walking  in  the  footsteps  of  our  Savior,  even  in  the  light  as 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  149 

he  was  in  the  light,  that  we  may  receive  a  fulfilment  of  the  promise 
that  we  shall  have  fellowship  one  with  another  in  his  kingdom,  and  that 
the  blood  of  Jesus  Christ  shall  cleanse  us  from  all  sins. 

PRAISE  THE  LORD  IN  PRAYER  FOR  OPPORTUNITY  AND  BLESSINGS 

I  have  been  greatly  edified  and  blessed  in  this  conference.  I  have 
enjoyed  the  inspiring  songs,  so  beautifully  rendered,  and  particularly 
the  song,  "Beautiful  Zion  for  me."  My  soul  went  out  in  rejoicing  and 
thanksgiving  before  the  Lord  that  my  lot  is  cast  with  the  Latter-day 
Saints  in  Zion,  that  I  have  membership  in  the  Church  and  kingdom  of 
God  here  upon  the  earth,  that  I  have  the  fellowship  of  the  Saints,  their 
love  and  confidence  and  association,  that  I  have  a  portion  of  the  auth- 
ority of  the  Lord  and  have  been  honored  with  the  privilege  to  minister 
for  him  in  this  great  ministry  in  the  earth,  for  his  sustaining  hand  and 
power  have  been  with  me  in  my  ministry,  notwithstanding  my  weak- 
nesses and  personal  inability.  May  the  name  of  the  Lord  be  praised  for- 
ever. 

My  attendance  at  the  meetings  of  this  conference  have  had  the 
effect  of  bringing  me  to  appreciate,  it  seems  to  me,  more  than  ever 
before,  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  unto  me  and  unto  his  people.  I  love  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  desire  to  see  the  blessings  of  God  poured  out 
upon  them,  the  blessings  of  heaven  and  the  blessings  of  earth,  and  I 
desire  to  see  this  people  faithful  in  keeping  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord  and  in  doing  his  will.  Brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  appreciate 
the  great  blessings  that  have  come  to  us  through  the  gospel,  let  us  never 
forget  our  obligation  to  render  thanksgiving  to  our  Father  in  Heaven 
for  them,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Morning  and  night  is  not  too 
often.  It  was  not  too  often  when  I  was  a  child  at  my  mother's  knee. 
I  have  never  felt  less  the  need  of  prayer  than  at  that  time.  As  obliga- 
tions have  come  to  me,  and  as  I  have  been  made  to  appreciate  more  the 
blessings  of  the  Lord,  I  have  felt  more  the  need  of  prayer,  and  I  have 
constantly,  and  fervently  prayed  unto  him  in  praise  and  thanksgiving, 
and,  realizing  my  dependence  and  my  weakness,  I  have  pleaded  with 
him  for  mercy,  forgiveness  and  for  spiritual  guidance.  The  Lord  has 
been  very  good  to  me,  and  I  feel  sure  you  feel  the  same,  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  he  has  been  good  to  you. 

OTHER    WAYS    THAN    PRAYER    TO    MANIFEST    APPRECIATION 

Now  let  me  say,  it  is  not  sufficient  that  we  pray  to  the  Lord 
often  in  thanksgiving  for  the  blessings.  There  are  other  ways  in  which 
we  can  manifest  our  appreciation,  if  we  appreciate  what  the  Lord  has 
done  for  us,  we  will  love  him  and  the  greater  our  appreciation  of  these 
blessings  the  greater  will  be  our  love,  and  the  Lord  has  said:  "If  ye 
love  me,  keep  my  commandments,"  and  thereby  does  he  know  whether 
we  love  him,  if  we  keep  his  commandments.  He  has  said :  "If  a  man 
love  me,  he  will  keep  my  word."     He  has  given  us  his  word  through 


150  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

his  servants.  President  Heber  J.  Grant  has  referred  to  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  as  the  word  of  God,  which  it  is.  Now  the  Lord  says :  "If 
ye  love  me,  keep  my  commandments.  If  a  man  love  me,  he  will  keep 
my  word."  Some  people  say :  "But  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  not  a 
commandment."  If  the  Lord  has  commanded  that  I  love  him  with  all 
my  heart,  with  all  my  soul,  with  all  my  might,  and  then  has  said  that 
if  I  love  him  I  will  keep  his  word,  therein  is  a  commandment  to  me 
that  I  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  Regard  it  as  you  will,  to  me  it  is 
sufficient  to  know  that  it  is  the  mind  and  will  of  God.  That  is  what 
we  are  here  for,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  learn  his  mind  and  will 
and  then  with  his  help  to  do  it  at  whatever  cost  it  may  entail. 

TESTIMONY 

I  know  that  this  is  God's  work,  I  am  thankful  for  it,  I  know  that 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  is  the  mouthpiece  of  God  unto  this  people  at 
this  time,  and  I  know  that  he  has  the  inspiration  of  his  calling.  I 
know  that  this  work  is  progressing  as  it  has  under  administrations  of 
the  Church  which  have  gone  before,  and  I  know  there  will  be  no 
dearth  of  interest  on  the  part  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  helping  to 
carry  on  this  work.  I  am  assured  of  its  triumph.  I  have  no  fear  of 
future  embarrassment,  of  being  found  in  a  mistaken  condition.  I  know, 
and  thank  God  for  this  testimony,  that  this  is  his  work,  that  he  is  at 
the  helm,  and  that  it  will  triumph.  This  is  my  testimony  which  I 
bear  to  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  have  a  half  hour  left  and  there  is  some  business  to  be  attended 
to,  namely,  the  presenting  of  the  Authorities,  and  I  would  like  to  make  a 
few  closing  remarks.  I  do  not  know  that  it  would  hurt  the  Latter-day 
Saints  if  we  were  to  overrun  the  time  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  I 
would  like  to  hear  from  all  our  mission  presidents  that  have  not  spoken, 
and  I  will  ask  them  to  watch  that  clock  and  to  bear  us  a  testimony  of 
from  three  to  five  minutes. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

President  of  the  Central  States  Mission  ' 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  in  attendance 
at  this  conference ;  and,  had  I  been  left  to  my  own  desires  I  would 
have  preferred  that  my  time  be  given  to  President  Grant.  I  appreciate 
the  gospel  and  the  knowledge  that  has  come  to  me  through  my  ministry, 
and  the  privilege  I  have  had  of  laboring  in  the  ministry,  bearing  my 
testimony  to  the  children  of  men ;  that  the  work  of  God  as  revealed 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  our  day  is  true.  In  my  travels 
I  have  found  faith  among  the  children  of  men,  and  have  become  ac- 
quainted with  many  men  and  women  who  have  obeyed  the  gospel  of 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BEN N ION  151 

Jesus  Christ  as  taught  by  the  elders  of  the  Church  who  have  labored 
in  the  Central  States  mission  during  my  appointment  as  president  of 
that  mission. 

Inasmuch  as  I  have  had  many  hundreds  of  young  men  and  women 
laboring  under  my  direction  as  president  of  that  mission,  I  have  been 
able  to  observe  that  the  youth  of  Zion  are  growing  stronger,  and  that 
they  are  not  weaker  than  they  were  20  years  ago.  I  know  that  the 
members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  are  growing 
in  faith  and  that  the  youth  of  Zion  are  not  losing  their  faith,  but  that 
they  are  holding  their  own,  notwithstanding  the  increased  temptations 
that  surround  young  people,  compared  with  the  temptations  of  20 
years  ago. 

Considering  the  fact  that  our  young  men  and  young  women  con- 
tinue to  show  improvement  in  faith  and  in  preparedness,  is  it  not  evi- 
dent, then,  that  the  membership  of  the  Church  of  God  in  the  earth  is 
growing  in  strength  and  in  power?  For  if  we  could  notice  a  decline, 
it  would  be  undoubtedly  because  of  the  training  of  the  youth  of  Zion, 
and  inasmuch  as  the  youth  of  Zion  do  show  an  increase  in  faith  and 
in  general  preparedness  for  preaching  the  gospel,  we  cannot  but 
conclude  that  the  affairs  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  are  well  administered,  and  that  the  work  of  the  Lord  is  growing 
and  increasing  in  power  and  in  strength  in  the  earth,  and  that  the 
children  who  are  given  to  parents  in  Zion  will  be  able  to  continue  to 
carry  in  honor  the  gospel  message  to  the  children  of  men  until  the 
Lord  shajl  come. 

I  know  that  the  Lord  lives  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet  of  God  and  that  he  received  the  authority 
to  act  in  the  name  of  God ;  that  he  was  divinely  appointed  and  qom- 
missioned  to  establish  the  Church,  and  that  the  gospel  through  him  might 
be  preached  in  all  the  world.  I  bear  testimony  that  the  Priesthood  of  the 
Son  of  God  is  in  the  aarth,  and  that  the  presiding  brethren,  with  Heber 
J.  Grant  at  the  head,  are  divinely  appointed  men  to  act  in  the  name 
of  God,  for  the  furthering  of  his  work  here  in  the  earth.  That  the 
Priesthood  shall  remain  in  the  earth  until  the  Son  of  man  comes  to  rule 
and  reign;  and  I  bear  this  testimony  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

I  am  very  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  testimony  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  that  I  have  received ;  of  the  truth  of  this 
great  work  that  has  been  established  in  the  latter  days ;  and  of  the 
divinity  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  We  often  say  that  we  are  very 
grateful  for  our  parentage,  and  for  the  blessings  that  have  come  to 
us  through  that  parentage.  Sometimes  I  wonder  just  what  I  have  re- 
ceived through  my  parents  and  grandparents.  In  thinking  over  the 
matter,  I  feel  that  I  have  received  one  good  thing,  among  the  many 


152  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

other  blessings,  and  that  is  a  love  for  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  whom 
God  raised  up  in  these  latter  days  to  establish  his  work  upon  the 
earth.  Grandfather  loved  Joseph  Smith  and  was  willing  to  give  his  life 
for  him.  He  stood  by  his  side.  I  am  grateful  for  the  blessing  that 
lias  come  to  me  in  the  testimony  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of 
God ;  that  I  can  love  him,  in  a  measure  at  least,  in  the  way  that  grand- 
father loved  this  man  of  God.  I  have  heard  my  grandmother,  Elizabeth 
Taylor,  testify  regarding  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  have  also  heard 
my  wife's  grandmother,  Rachel  Grant,  testify  of  him.  I  have  heard 
many  other  men  and  women  who  have  personally  known  the  prophet 
testify  to  the  divine  calling  of  Joseph  Smith.  We  are  not  so  very  far 
away  from  this  Prophet  of  God,  and  the  testimony  concerning  him  is 
very  close  to  us.  It  is  not  necessary  to  reach  back  through  the  ages, 
or  through  the  thousands  of  years,  to  find  testimony  and  to  find  faith 
in  regard  to  this  great  work  and  this  great  man,  a  prophet,  raised  up 
in  these  the  latter  days. 

I  hope  that,  as  members  of  the  Church,  we  will  do  our  part ;  that 
our  boys  and  our  girls  will  accept  the  testimony  of  the  splendid  men 
and  women  we  have  among  us,  and  particularly  of  those  who  can 
testify  to  the  divinity  of  the  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  May 
God  bless  us  and  help  us  to  live  a  life  of  usefulness  and  of  righteous- 
ness upon  the  earth ;  and  show  him,  by  the  things  that  we  do,  that  we 
truly  love  him  and  are  willing  to  give  service  and  perform  the  labors 
which  God  would  have  us  perform  upon  the  earth.  I  bear  testimony 
as  to  the  truth  of  this  work,  and  of  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet 
Toseph  Smith,  and  of  Jesus  Christ  the  beloved  Son  of  God.   'Amen. 


ELDER   BRIGHAM    S.   YOUNG 

President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

These  tabloid  sermons  remind  me  of  a  line  from  Shakespeare: 
"One  woe  doth  tread  upon  another's  heels,  so  fast  they  follow." 

But  I  will  not  detain  you  long,  brethren  and  sisters.  I  am  grateful 
to  have  the  privilege  of  representing  and  making  a  brief  report  of  the 
Northwestern  States  mission.  It  is  a  glorious  work  to  which  a  few 
selected  brethren  have  been  called,  and  I  am  very  grateful  that  I 
have  been  one  of  the  selected  few ;  not  because  I  merit  the  distinction, 
because  I  have  had  to  rest  upon  the  mercy  of  God  and  the  kindness 
of  my  brethren.  It  is  a  wonderful  and  glorious  experience  to  be  as- 
sociated with  your  sons  and  daughters.  They  are  the  elect  of  the  earth, 
and  I  plead  for  them  that,  on  their  return  to  their  homes,  their 
presidents  of  stakes,  their  bishops  of  wards,  will  extend  to  them  the 
hand  of  helpfulness,  that  they  shall  be  cared  for  and  provided  a  place 
in  which  they  may  continue  the  excellent  work  they  have  performed  in 
the  mission.  They  are  acquiring  such  knowledge  as  does  not  come 
to  men  and  women  in  educational  institutions,  but  I  desire  to  make  a 
plea  that  we  encourage  them  to  greater  educational  efforts.     We  are 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  S.  YOUNG  153 

meeting  a  class  of  men  and  women  in  the  world  that  requires  and  calls 
for  the  very  best  of  intellectual  attainment,  and  the  better  equipped 
our  boys  and  girls  are  to  meet  these  higher  intellectuals,  the  more  good 
they  can  do.  They  can  reach  people  whom  men  and  women  of  less 
educational  attainment  cannot  successfully  reach ;  and  I  look  forward  in 
hope  to  the  time  when  young  men  and  women  we  shall  send  out  into  the 
world  will  be  the  peers,  educationally,  of  any  other  men  and  women  in 
the  world.  The  destiny  of  this  people  and  this  cause  is  that  it  shall  be 
the  greatest  educational  factor  in  all  the  world ;  and  to  the  testimonies 
that  have  been  borne  here  this  day,  and  other  days,  I  wish  to  add  mine. 
Re?son  has  convinced  me;  the  laws  of  experience,  as  they  have  been 
and  are  being  applied  in  human  attainment,  as  well  as  the  authority  of 
the  scripture,  teach,  proclaim  and  testify  to  me,  that  this  is  the  work 
of  God.  As  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  come  forth  from  the  crucible 
it  has  been  adorned  and  is  in  the  radiance  of  the  divine.  God  is  with 
good.  He  is  with  truth.  He  is  with  this  people ;  and  if  we  wish  to  do 
our  full  duty  to  him,  we  can  best  do  it  by  proclaiming  to  the  world  in 
the  lives  we  live  that  this  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  to  which  I  testify 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 

President   of   the   Canadian  Mission 

I  believe  that  I  appreciate,  to  the  fullest,  the  great  responsibility 
that  rests  upon  one,  when  one  is  called  upon  to  bear  witness  of  the 
gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Master,  Jesus  Christ.  I  have  come  to  the  con- 
clusion that  there  is  no  greater  work  in  all  this  world  than  to  be  engaged 
in  proclaiming  and  teaching  the  gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Master  to  the 
nations  of  the  earth.  I  am  glad,  beyond  my  power  to  say,  that  I  have 
been  chosen  and  sent  into  the  world  to  be  associated  with  young  men  and 
women,  in  declaring  this  divine  truth  to  those  with  whom  we  come  in 
contact  from  day  to  day.  I  am  glad  to  be  a  member  of  this  great  and 
mighty  Church,  and  that  there  is  burning  within  my  heart  a  testimony 
concerning  the  divinity  of  this  great  latter-day  work. 

In  the  country  in  which  it  has  been  my  privilege  to  labor,  there  are 
some  of  the  finest  people  with  whom  one  would  care  to  meet.  They 
are,  as  a  rule,  intelligent  and  law-abiding  people.  They  are  people  who 
know  the  value  of  law,  in  that  they  execute  it  to  bring  about  better 
order  for  all  those  who  reside  within  their  borders.  As  an  example : 
the  other  day,  while  riding  in  one  of  the  street  cars  of  the  city  of 
Toronto,  there  hung  from  the  roof  of  the  car  this  sign,  "The  Toronto 
Traction  Company,  since  September  1,  1921,  has  traveled  one  hun- 
dred twenty-two  million  miles ;  these  cars  have  carried  one  billion 
two  hundred  twenty-five  million  people,  and  during  that  length  of  time 
there  has  not  been  one  fatal  accident."  I  make  mention  of  this  for 
the  simple  reason,  to  bring  out  the  fact,  that  they  do  business  on  a 
conservative  basis,  and  that  there  is  cooperation  on  the  part  of  all,  in 
protecting  the  population  of  the  country.    This  conservatism  is  shown, 


154  •  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

not  only  in  their  business  life,  but  also  in  their  social  and  spiritual 
life. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  to  me  this  latter-day  work  is  worth  my 
life.  In  the  silent  hours  of  my  life,  when  I  have  the  opportunity,  and 
that  is  often,  I  reflect  upon  that  great  vision  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  when  he  saw  God,  the  eternal  Father,  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ  and  heard  the  voice  of  God  introducing  his  Son.  I  think 
that  is  one  of  the  greatest  events  in  the  history  of  human  life. 
Indeed,  there  is  no  other  event  recorded,  that  equals  it.  It  is  true  that 
we  read  in  the  scriptures  that  Stephen  saw  the  Son  of  God  sitting 
on  the  right  hand  of  God;  but  nowhere  do  we  find  that  both  God 
the  Father  and  the  Son  have  appeared  at  the  same)  time  to  mortal  man. 
This  event,  wherein  God  introduced  his  Son  to  this  young  prophet, 
clearly  indicates  the  character  and  magnitude  of  this  great  latter-day 
woik.  Indeed  it  was  so  important  that  it  required  the  introduction  of  it 
into  the  world  in  this  great  and  last  dispensation  by  both  the  Father 
and  the  Son.  I  thank  God,  my  eternal  Father,  that  I  have  been  counted 
worthy  to  bear  this  testimony,  not  only  upon  his  occasion,  but  upon 
the  many  occasions  that  have  come  to  me  during  my  life.  May  God 
bless  us  to  the  extent  that  we  may  appreciate  more  fully,  our  relation- 
ship to  him,  and  praise  him  for  the  testimonies  that  all  of  us  enjoy,  I 
ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  G.  ALLRED 

President  of  the  Northcentml  States  Mission 

One  of  the  ancient  prophets  who  had  his  mind  centered  upon  this 
great  latter-day  work  used  words  somewhat  like  these : 

"Stay  yourselves,  and  wonder;  cry  ye  out,  and  cry:  they  are  drunken, 
but  not  with  wine;  they   stagger,  but  not  with   strong   drink. 

"For  the  Lord  hath  poured  out  upon  you  the  spirit  of  deep  sleep,  and 
hath  closed  your  eyes :  the  prophets  and,  your  rulers,  the  seers  hath  he  covered. 

"And  the  vision  of  all  is  become  unto  you  as  the  words  of  a  book  that  is 
sealed,  which  men  deliver  to  one  fthat  is  learned,  saying,  Read  this,  I  pray 
thee:  and  he  saith,  I  cannot;   for  it  is  sealed: 

"And  the  book  is  delivered  to  him  that  is  not  learned,  saying,  Read  this 
I  pray  thee;  and  he  saith,  I  am  not  learned. 

"Wherefore  the  Lord  said,  Forasmuch  as  this  people  draw  near  me  with 
their  mouth,  and  with  their  lips  do  honor  me,  but  have  removed  their 
heart  far  from  me,  and  their  fear  toward  me  is  taught  by  the  precept  of  men: 

"Therefore,  behold  I  will  proceed  to  do  a  marvelous  work  among  this 
people." 

Not  long  ago  a  letter  fell  into  my  hands  that  was  written  in  this 
city,  in  the  year  1876.  That  letter,  written  by  one  of  our  enemies, 
said: 

"Brigham  Young  is  fast  trotting  toward  the  grave,  and  in  a  short 
time  he  will  be  laid  beneath  the  sod  and  with  him  will  come  the 
death  of  'Mormonism.'  " 

The  following  year,  1877,  Brigham  Young  died,  but  "Mormonism" 


ELDER  JOHN  G.  ALLRED  155 

did  not  die,  and  our  answer  to  the  world  is :  "Mormonism"  will  never 
die,  for  it  is  the  work  of  God,  and  will  be  consummated  in  the  coming 
of  Jesus  Christ  the  Lord,  who  shall  come  to  reign  as  Lord  of  lords 
and  King  of  kings.  The  young  men  of  Israel  are  today  filled  with  the 
same  faith  that  filled  the  breasts  of  their  fathers,  who  adopted  this 
work  and  who  have  so  successfully  carried  it  on ;  and  it  will  never  wane 
for  the  lack  of  faith  on  the  part  of  the  young  men  and  women  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  bear  witness  to  you  today  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of 
God  and  that  he  has  been  followed  by  men  who  are  his  legal  suc- 
cessors, endowed  with  the  keys  of  the  Priesthood  of  God,  with  the 
authority  to  speak  today,  not  a  thousands  years  ago,  but  now.  Thus 
saith  the  Lord  God  of  Israel,  that  power  is  in  the  earth  today,  in  these 
valleys  of  the  mountains,  in  the  Church  of  God,  as  it  was  established, 
and  I  bear  witness  to  these  truths,  testifying  that  I  know  as  I  know  that 
I  live,  that  this  work  is  of  God,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

I 
ELDER   KENNETH   HAYMORE 

Acting  President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

I  am  very  pleased  to  be  here  this  afternoon,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  give  a  brief  report  of  the  work  of  the  Mexican  mission. 
1  know  that  the  work  we  are  doing  in  Mexico  is  indeed  the  work 
of  the  Lord,  and  that  it  is  not  the  work  of  any  man.  The  mission- 
aries, numbering  seventy-four  or  seventy-five,  are  doing  a  splendid 
work  there.  They  are  taking  the  gospel  to  the  descendants  of  a 
people  who  formerly  had  a  thorough  knowledge  of  the  gospel. 
It  has  already  been  stated  here  this  afternoon  that  the  people  of  this  con- 
tinent, the  natives  of  the  continent,  at  one  time  enjoyed  the  knowledge 
of  the  gospel,  but  just  as  an  apostasy  was  brought  about  on  the 
other  continent,  so  also  there  was  an  apostasy  upon  this  continent; 
but  now,  thanks  to  our  heavenly  Father,  he  has  restored  his  gospel 
to  the  earth.  These  people  are  receiving  again  its  teachings,  they 
are  coming  into  a  knowledge  of  their  fathers,  and  are  learning  that 
they  are  indeed  of  the  blood  of  Israel.  They  are  learning  the  laws 
and  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  and  I  am  happy  to  say  that  some  of 
them,  at  least,  are  accepting  the  gospel,  and  are  showing  by  their 
lives  that  they  know  that  they  indeed  have  the  truth.  We  are 
having  success  in  Mexico  in  spite  of  a  few  disadvantages.  We  hope 
that  within  a  short  time  our  missionaries  may  labor  in  that  country 
unhindered.  In  the  United  States  we  also  have  a  work  going  on 
among  the  Mexican  people  with  great  success. 

I  shall  not  attempt  to  give  any  further  report,  but  I  do  wish  to 
testify  that  the  missionaries  are  working  hard;  that  they  are 
happy,  and  that  they  are  safe.  I  don't  believe  that  they  are  in  any 
danger  in  Mexico.     They  are  treated  courteously  in  all  cases.     I 


156  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

testify  to  you  this  afternoon  that,  I  know  that  this  is  not  the  work 
of  any  man.  I  know  it  is  not  the  work  of  President  Grant,  nor  is 
it  the  work  of  President  Pratt,  with  reference  to  the  Mexican 
mission,  but  that  it  is  indeed  the  work  of  our  Lord  and  Savior 
Jesus  Christ.  This  is  my  testimony,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  The  significant  and  reassuring  fact 
about  this  conference  is  that  we  are  growing  in  a  testimony  of  the  truth 
of  the  work  of  almighty  God.  There  is  something  substantial  and 
unimpeachable  about  these  meetings,  for  they  indicate  that  we  as  a 
people  are  growingjn  grace  and  spiritual  power,  and  that  some  day  we 
will  emerge  into  our  highest  selves,  and  vindicate  by  our  spiritual 
lives  the  supreme  ideals  for  which  we  stand.  We  appreciate  the  fact 
that  we  are  citizens  of  the  United  States.  This  government  under 
which  we  live  was  brought  into  being  by  the  highest  concepts  of  the 
finest  types  of  men.  When  Christopher  Columbus  landed  on  American 
soil  in  October,  1892,  he  uttered  a  prayer  which  is  significant  and 
prophetic.    From  the  Latin  I  give  it  to  you  in  translation : 

"O,  Lord  God,  eternal  and  omnipotent,  by  thy  sacred  word,  the  heaven, 
the  earth,  and  the  sea,  thou  hast  created.  Blessed  and  glorified  be  thy  name, 
praise  be  thy  majesty,  which  has  been  made  worthy  through  thy  humble  servant, 
that  thy  sacred  name  be  recognized  and  proclaimed  in  this  other  part  of  the 
world." 

We  are  told  in  a  book  of  holy  scriptures,  namely,  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  that  a  man,  chosen  from  among  the  Gentiles  should  discover 
this  continent  and  the  remnant  of  the  people  of  Israel.  This  was 
Christopher  Columbus,  and  we  are  further  told  that  others  would 
follow  him,  and  that  this  land  should  be  dedicated  to  the  highest  prin- 
ciples of  liberty.  When  the  Pilgrim  Fathers  landed  on  Plymouth  Rock 
they  drew  up  a  compact  which  was  fundamental  to  the  Constitution  of 
the  United  States.    This  compact  in  part  reads : 

"In  ye  name  of  God,  Amen.  We  whose  names  are  written,  the  loyall  subjects 
of  our  dread  soveraigne  Lord,  King  lames,  by  ye  grace  of  God,  of  Great 
Britaine,  France,  &  Ireland,  King,  defender  of  ye  faith,  &c,  haveing  undertaken, 
for  ye  glorie  of  God,  and  advancements  of  ye  Christian  faith,  and  honour  of  our 
king  &  countrie,  a  voyage  to  plant  ye  first  colonie  in  ye  Northerne  parts  of 
Viriginia,  d,oe  by  these  presents  solemnly  &  mutualy,  in  ye  presence  of  God,  and 
one  of  another,  covenant  &  combine  ourselves  together  into  a  civil  body  politick, 
for  our  better  ordering  &  preservation  &  furtherance  of  ye  ends  aforesaid :  and  by 
vertue  hereof  'oenacte,  constitute,  and  frame  such  just  &  equall  lawes,  ordinances, 
actes,  constitutions,  &  offices,  from  time  to  time,  as  shall  be  thought  most 
meete.     *    *    *    " 

We  Latter-day  Saints  believe  in  the  sacredness  of  the  Mayflower 
compact,  and  we  hold  very  reverently  in  our  hearts  the  Constitution 
of  the  United  States.     This  document  is  the  greatest  expression  of 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG  157 

government  that  has  come  forth  in  all  history,  and  its  principles,  if 
lived  up  to,  will  change  the  political  and  civic  life  of  the  world.  The 
beautiful  thing  about  the  American  government  is  that  it  is  an  expres- 
sion of  the  lives  of  the  people,  and  if  the  people  live  magnanimous  and 
Christian-like  lives,  so  will  our  Government  become  greater  and  greater. 
There  are  problems  today  to  be  solved,  and  I  consider  that  the  greatest 
ills  of  society  are:  first,  the  unprecedented  challenge  of  authority  and 
disrespect  for  law ;  secondly,  hatred  between  man  and  man ;  and  thirdly, 
the  excessive  search  for  pleasure  as  the  aim  of  life.  I  believe  that  we 
people  should  be  the  greatest  lovers  of  the  law  of  any  people  living, 
for  just  law  expresses  our  ideals  and  concepts  of  life.  We  should 
dedicate  our  lives  to  the  highest  political  and  civic  truths  and  we  should 
grow  in  the  abiding  thought  that  man  is  made  in  the  image  of  God ;  that 
the  Christian  virtues  are  the  highest  codes  of  ethics;  and  that  im- 
mortality and  the  establishment  of  God's  kingdom  on  the  earth  are  il- 
luminated because  of  the  restored  Priesthood  which  we  hold.  With  such 
ideals  we  will  be  able  to  contribute  more  to  the  solution  of  the  problems 
of  the  world  than  any  other  people.  I  pray  that  we  may  not  only 
see  the  problems  of  human  society  that  lie  before  us,  but  that  we  will 
be  able  to  meet  them  with  a  potency  that  comes  as  a  result  of  the  deepest 
faith  in  almighty  God  and  his  purposes.    May  we  not  sing: 

"Higher  yet  and  higher, 
Out  of  clouds  in  night, 
Nearer  yet  and  nearer, 
Rising  to  the  light." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  General  Authorities  and  the  General  Officers  of  the 
Church  as  follows,  being  sustained  in  their  offices  and  callings  by  the 
unanimous  vote  of  the  conference : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthony  W.  Ivins,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Charles  W.  Nibley,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT    OF    THE    COUNCIL    OF    THE    TWELVE    APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Reed  Smoot  James  E.  Talmage 

George  Albert  Smith  Stephen  L.  Richards 

George  F.  Richards  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

David  O.  McKay  John  A.  Widtsoe 


158  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

PKESIDING  PATRIARCH 

Hyrum   G.   Smith 

The   Counselors   in   the   First   Presidency,   the   Twelve   Apostles, 
and  the  Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Brigham  H.  Roberts 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Charles  H.  Hart 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Levi  Edgar  Young 

Joseph  W.  MicMurrin  Rey  L.  Pratt 

PRESIDING   BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,   Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH    HISTORIAN   AND  RECORDER 

Joseph   Fielding   Smith,    with   the    following   assistants :    Andrew 
Tenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  William  Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 

CHURCH    BOARD  OF   EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Anthony  W.  Ivins  David  O.  McKay 

Charles  W.  Nibley  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Willard  Young  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Rudger  Clawson  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

SUPERINTENDENT  OF  CHURCH   SCHOOLS 

Adam  S.   Bennion 

AUDITING   COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp  John  C.  Cutler 

Peter  G.  Johnston 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor  B.  Cecil  Gates,  Asst.  Conductor 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.   Kimball  Alexander  Schreiner 

Tracy  Y.  Cannon  Frank  W.  Asper 

George  C.   Smith,   Secretary 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  159 

CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Edward  H.  Anderson 
GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Clarissa  S.  Williams,  President 
Jennie  B.  Knight,  First  Counselor 
Louise  Y.   Robison,   Second   Counselor  % 

with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET    SUNDAY   SCHOOL    UNION 

David  O.  McKay,  General  Superintendent 
Stephen  L.  Richards,  1st  Asst.  Gen'l  Supt. 
George  D.  Pyper,  2nd  Asst.  Gen'l  Supt. 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG   MEN'S   MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Albert  Smith,  General  Superintendent 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  1st  Asst.  Supt. 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  2nd  Asst.  Supt. 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG   LADIES'    MUTUAL    IMPROVEMENT    ASSOCIATION 

Martha  H.  Tingey,  President 
Ruth  May  Fox,  First  Counselor 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May   Anderson,    President 
Sadie  G.  Pack,  First  Counselor 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Brother  Junius  F.  Wells  has  handed  to  me  the  following  memo- 
randum that  I  feel  sure  will  be  of  interest : 

PRESIDING  AUTHORITIES 

"There  have  been  sustained  since  the  Church  was  organized,  seven 
presidents,  19  counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  54  apostles,  5  presiding 


160  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

patriarchs,  34  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  14  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric.  A  total  of  133  besides  the  three  witnesses  to  the  Book  of 
Mormon." 

A  FEW  WORDS  ON  DEBT 

Apropos  of  my  remarks  to  the  effect  that  we  should  not  run  in 
debt  or  mortgage  our  future,  I  will  read  a  poem  that  has  been  handed 
to  me,  written  by  Stoddard  King: 

SAID  THE  PIEMAN 

A  study  of  pie  salesmanship  will  be  made  by  the  National  Pie 
Bakers  Association. — News  item. 

"The  story  of   Simon   called   Simple 

Is  one  everybody  has  read ; 
It  is  sweet,  it  is  sad,,  and  it  tells  of  a  lad 

Who  wasn't  quite  right  in  the  head. 
When  he  sought  to  buy  pie  of  the  pieman, 

Poor  Simon  was  hopeful  but  rash, 
For  he  childishly  thought  that  a  pie  could  be  bought 

Without  any  transfer  of  cash. 

"But  we  mustn't  speak  harshly  of   Simon, 

Who  was   simply  ahead   of   his  time — ■ 
Today  he  could  buy  a  whole  carload  of  pie 

By  merely  investing  a  dime. 
The  up-to-date  salesman  would  land  him — ■ 

Or,  rather  more  likely,  his  wife — ■ 
By  letting  him  pay  a  few  cents  right  away 

And  installments  the  rest  of  his  life. 

"It's  the  way  they  sell  pins  and  pianos, 

And  paintings,  potatoes  and  pants — 
For  a  few  dollars  down  you  can  buy  the  whole  town — . 

As  a  prospect  you  haven't  a  chance. 
The  fact  that  you're  broke  doesn't  matter, 

Your   only   escape   is   to   die — 
And  as  long  as  they  take  all  the  money  you  make, 

You  might  as  well  spend  it  for  pie!" 

U.  S.  COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 

I  am  pleased  to  state  that  sitting  on  the  stand  Sunday,  at  the  opening 
session  of  our  conference,  was  the  Commissioner  of  Education  of  the 
United  States  of  America,  Honorable  John  J.  Tigert,  and  he  expressed 
himself  as  very  well  pleased  with  our  wonderful  gathering. 

PASSING    OF    PRESIDENT    THOMAS    P.    COTTAM 

Since  our  last  conference  one  of  the  most  faithful  and  diligent 
of  all  workers  in  the  Church,  for  many  years  a  counselor  in  the  presi- 
dency of  the  St.  George  stake,  and  subsequently  the  president  of  the  St. 
George  temple,  Brother  Thomas  P.  Cottam,  has  passed  away.  He 
was  one  of  the  noblemen  of  the  earth,  one  of  the  most  faithful,  loyal, 
true,  upright  Latter-day  Saints  that  it  has  ever  fallen  to  my  lot  to  know. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  161 

EVANGELINE  BOOTH  ON  PROHIBITION 

I  had  intended  to  read  something  here  from  Evangeline  Booth, 
Commander  of  the  Salvation  Army  in  this  country,  but,  like  the  con- 
gressmen, I  will  beg  leave  to  have  it  put  in  my  speech  when  it  is  printed 
in  the  Conference  Pamphlet,  or  when  it  appears  in  the  Deseret  News. 
It  was  published  in  the  Literary  Digest  of  March  20,  1926: 

"Park  benches  are  emptied  of  their  drunken  derelicts,  and  the  men  who  used 
to  make  their  wives  and  children  the  victims  of  their  thirst  and  besotted  rage 
have  sobered  up  and  returned  to  work  to  feed  their  families.  And  that  one 
fact,  believes  Evangeline  Booth,  Commander  of  the  Salvation  Army  in  the 
United  States,  is  the  most  convincing  argument  in  favor  of  prohibition  and  against 
the  return  of  the  saloon.  She  is  sure,  however,  that  the  Eighteenth  Amendment 
is  so  firmly  entrenched  in  public  favor  that  it  will  never  be  repealed,  and  equally 
sure  that  it  can  be  enforced.  Such  drinking  as  is  indulged  in  now,  she  asserts, 
is  a  fad  of  the  idle  rich  which  will  die  out,  or  else  society — society,  that  is, 
with  the  big  'S'— will  be  turned  upside  down  and  furnish  rum  wastrels  for  the 
Salvation  Army  to  salvage.  Miss  Booth's  utterance  is  no  careless  statement  of 
fact  and  possibility,  for  there  is  no  more  seasoned  worker  among  the  sub- 
merged tenth  than  she,  none  among  the  world's  greatest  moral  clean-up  organ- 
izations more  familiar  with  the  sodden  aspects  of  drunkenness  and  debauchery 
and  their  devastating  influence  on  the  home.  It  was  while  convalescing  from  an 
attack  of  appendicitis  that  she  issued  her  statement  on  prohibition,  which  is 
quoted  in  part  by  the  New  York  Times  as  follows : 

"  After  all  these  years  of  hard  fighting  to  protect  the  home,  emancipate  the 
neglected  children  and  wipe  from  our  national  escutcheon  the  disgrace  of  the 
evils  arising  from  drink,  it  is  good  to  find  that  the  people  of  America  have 
come  to  a  correct  judgment  concerning  the  drink  evil.  It  is  unthinkable  that 
the  country  will  ever  return  to  the  deadly  saloon  system  and  a  resumption  of 
liquor  vending. 

"  'Surely  it  will  be  conceded  that  the  Salvation  Army  knows  something 
about  the  evils  of  strong  drink.  From  the  day  my  father  founded  the  organiza- 
tion in  England  to  combat  the  degradation  and  vice  that  are  inevitable  conse- 
quences of  liquor  drinking,  the  Salvation  Army  has  held  rigidly  to  its  purpose, 
and  feels  that  it  had  a  great  deal  to  do  with  the  enactment  of  prohibition  in 
America. 

"  'It  is  an  illogical  thing  to  say  that  because  a  new  law  has  not  worked 
like  magic  it  is  best  to  cast  it  aside  and  return  to  the  original  state  of  vice  which, 
because  of  its  awfulness,  prompted  the  enactment  of  that  law.  Such  a  thing  would 
make  civilization  march  backward.  It  is  rather  the  duty  of  the  citizen,  the 
State  and  the  Government  to  find  ways  ana  means  to  make  the  law  work  out 
its  unquestioned  benefits  to  humanity.    It  can  be  done.    It  is  being  done. 

"  'Enemies  of  the  Volstead  Law  waste  their  time  when  they  try  to  tell  organ- 
izations like  the  Salvation  Army  that  national  prohibition  will  not  work.  Vast 
changes  have  come  about,  and  to  undo  them  would  be  to  strike  a  blow  at  every 
fireside  and  every  industry  in  this  country.  . 

"  'Why  try  to  tell  the  Salvation  Army  that  the  park  benches  are  crowded  with 
drunken  men,  as  they  were  before  prohibition  when  we  used  to  gather  them  in  on 
Thanksgiving  Day,  for  example,  and  fight  to  salvage  them?  They  are  gone. 
The  benches  still  remain,  but  the  occupants  are  not  drunk  any  more ;  they  are 
climbing  upward  to  better  things  while  the  public  rushes  by  all  unheeding.  Why 
try  to  tell  us  that  workingmen  spend  their  wages  before  their  families  can  get 
the  money  for  food,  and  that  men  beat  their  wives  and  children  as  in  the  old 
days  ?     It  simply  is  not  the  case. 

"  'If  the  idle  rich  persist  in  making  a  sport  of  the  prohibition  law,  the  day 


162  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

may  come  when  the  boulevardiers,  vastly  in  the  minority,  will  have  to  be  salvaged 
out  of  their  attractive  places  for  secret  drinking  and  rescued,  if  possible,  by  the 
Salvation  Army,  just  as  the  poor  saloon  victim  used  to  be.  In  that  event  the  sober 
and  progressive  working  classes  will  automatically  become  the  aristocrats,  and 
society,  so-called,  will  be  turned  upside  down  in  its  system  of  organization. 

"  'In  other  words,  drinking  and  flouting  the  prohibition  law  are  a  fad  and 
will  die  out'  " 

In  testimony  of  Miss  Booth's  experience  and  of  her  fitness  to 
pass  judgment  on  prohibition,  Arthur  J.  Davis,  State  Superintendent 
of  the  Anti-Saloon  League  of  New  York,  says,  as  he  is  quoted  in  the 
same  paper : 

"She  led  her  band  of  Salvationists  against  the  drink  evil  in  the  United  States 
and  consistently  opposed  the  saloon  while  she  salvaged  its  wrecks  and  bound  up 
the  wounds  of  its  victims.  Evangeline  Booth  has  been  knocked  down  by  drunkards 
and  so  badly  injured  that  she  spent  months  in  hospitals.  In  the  early  days  of 
her  work  in  New  York  slums  Salvationists  were  murdered  by  drunkards.  She, 
therefore,  knows  what  she  is  talking  about  when  she  attacks  the  illegal  liquor 
traffic  and  upholds  prohibition.  For  seventy  years  her  organization  has  fought 
the  saloon  and  she  knows  the  advantages  of  its  banishment." 

A  study  was  made  in  Munich  by  a  professor  in  which  it  was  dis- 
covered that  in  that  great  beer-drinking  city  seventy-two  out  of  every 
one  hundred  babies  that  were  born  there  were  unsound.  The  same  pro- 
fessor visited  prohibition  Maine  and  found  that  71.5  per  cent  of  the 
babies  there  were  born  sound.  There  have  been  born  to  me  twelve 
babies  and  forty-four  grandchildren,  all  of  whom  were  sound,  and  I  am 
convinced  that  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  are  observing  the  Word 
of  Wisdom  not  more  than  one  to  two  per  cent  of  the  babies  are  born 
unsound.  And  yet,  I  quoted  from  an  article  published  in  one  of  our 
local  newspapers  that  if  any  woman  believed  that  tobacco  would  injure 
her  child  she  would  not  be  guilty  of  using  it. 

ON  MOVING  FROM  PLACE  TO  PLACE 

I  would  like  to  appeal  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  are  thinking  of 
moving  from  one  place  to  another,  from  Canada  on  the  north  to  Mexico 
on  the  south  (I  believe  that  four  hundred  miles  north  of  Lethbridge 
is  the  farthest  north,  or  the  closest  to  the  north  pole,  any  Latter-day 
Saint  has  gone),  that  before  moving  they  do  some  consulting  with  or 
writing  to  the  presidents  of  stakes  and  others  in  the  section  where  they 
contemplate  going,  and  ascertain  if  they  can  identify  themselves  with 
some  of  the  regular  organizations  of  the  Church ;  instead  of  going 
beyond  the  bounds  of  the  Church,  and  then  writing  and  asking  us  to 
please  send  some  missionaries  to  hunt  them  up ;  that  they  really  do 
belong  to  the  Church,  but  that  they  have  gotten  so  far  away  everybody 
seems  to  have  forgotten  them.  Move  where  you  cannot  be  forgotten 
and  where  there  is  an  organized  stake  or  ward  of  the  Church.  There 
is  plenty  of  opportunity  in  the  organized  stakes  of  Zion  for  those  who 
want  to  change  their  location  here  in  Utah  and  in  Idaho   and  in  Canada. 


CHURCH  AUTHORITIES  163 

ON    SMOKING    CIGARETTES 

There  are  two  items  which  I  had  intended  to  quote  here  this  after- 
noon, but  I  shall  not  do  so;  instead,  as  before  stated,  I  will  adopt  the 
system  of  the  congressmen,  and  beg  leave  to  print. 

I  quote  a  statement  which  profoundly  impressed  me,  from  Mr. 
Henry  Ford's  pamphlet: 

"  'Several  of  my  young  acquaintances  are  in  their  graves  who  gave  promise 
of  making  happy  and  useful  citizens,'  declares  Luther  Burbank,  the  wizard  of  the 
plant  and  vegetable  kingdom  whose  experiments  have  caused  the  civilized  world 
to  wonder,  and  whose  experiments  have  benefited  the  civilized  world  by  millions 
upon  millions,  in  increase  of  prosperity,  by  the  increase  in  the  various  things  that 
he  has  done  in  improvement  in  flowers  and  in  seeds  and  in  fruits  and  in  the 
redemption  of  the  cactus  in  Arizona,  taking  the  thorns;  he  is  in  very  deed  the 
wizard  of  the  agricultural  world  and  one  of  the  benefactors  of  mankind.  He 
says :  'And  there  is  no  question  whatever  that  cigarettes  alone  were  the  cause  of 
their  destruction.'  No  boy  living  would  commence  the  use  of  cigarettes  if  he 
knew  what  a  useless,  soulless,  worthless  thing  they  wouid  make  of  him." 

I  quote  from  David  Starr  Jordan,  President  Emeritus  of  the 
Stanford  University: 

"The  boy  who  smokes  cigarettes  need  not  be  anxious  about  his  future.  He 
has  none." 

BENEDICTION  ' 

I  rejoice  beyond  measure  in  the  rich  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  during  our  conference,  from  the  first  session  until  the  present 
time ;  and,  insofar  as  God  has  endowed  me  with  ability  and  power  and 
his  Priesthood,  I  bless  the  people.  I  bless  each  and  every  soul  who  has 
taken  part  in  this  conference,  in  singing,  in  praying  and  in  speaking, 
and  I  bear  witness  to  you  that  they  have  spoken  under  the  inspiration 
of  the  living  God,  and  that  they  are  entitled  to  the  blessings  of  God. 
I  bless  the  people  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  have  come  here  and 
listened  so  patiently  and  in  such  great  numbers' to  the  testimonies  which 
have  been  borne.  May  God's  choicest  blessings  attend  all  Israel,  and  the 
honest  the  world  over,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.     Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "For  the  strength  of  the  hills 
we  bless  thee;"  and  the  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Fred  A. 
Caine,  president  of  the  Idaho  Falls  stake  of  Zion. 

The  conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing,  assisted  by  B. 
Cecil  Gates;  accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were 
played  by  Edward  P.  Kimball,  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Alexander  Schreiner 
and  Frank  W.  Asper.  Stenographic  reports  were  made  in  the  Taber- 
nacle by  Frank  W.  Otterstrom,  assisted  by  Joseph  Anderson;  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  by  Frederick  G.  Barker. 

edward  h.  Anderson,  Clerk  of  Conference. 


INDEX 

Authorities  Present  1 

Allred,  Elder  John  G 154 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0 150 

Bluth,  Elder  John  V 63 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A 135 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q 90 

Clawson,  President  Rudger 139 

We  Are  Decidedly  a  Christian  Church,  139 — Our  Standard  Texts, 
139— The  Holy  Bible,  139— The  Book  of  Mormon,  140— The  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  141 — How  the  Book  of  Mormon  Bears  on  the 
Subject,   142. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 2 

Cause  For  Rejoicing,  2 — Changes  in  Officers  and  Church  Statistics, 
3 — Obedience  to  Law,  4 — Lincoln  on  the  Subject,  5 — Theodore 
Roosevelt,  5 — The  .Word  of  Wisdom  a  Revelation  to  the  Saints, 
5 — On  Women  and  Smoking,  6 — Comments  on  Sustaining  the  Law, 
7 — Latter-day  Saints  Warned  Against  Debt  and  Wealth,  7 — Avoid 
Serving  the  God  of  Fashion,  8 — Promise  of  God  to  Observers  of  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  8 — The  Support  of  Home  Institutions,  9 — Appeal 
to  Farmers  on  the  Sugar  Industry,  9 — What  the  Church  Requests 
as  to  Card  Playing,  10 — Sustain  the  Deseret  News,  10 — Authorities 
Absent  From  Conference,  11 — Calls  For  Missionaries,  12 — An  Easter 
Greeting,  12. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 44 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 96 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 118 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 136 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 138 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 147 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 150 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 157 

General  Authorities  Sustained,  157 — Presiding  Authorities,  159 — A 
Few  Words  On  Debt,  160 — U.  S.  Commissioner  of  Education,  160 — 
Passing  of  President  Thomas  P.  Cottam,  160 — Evangeline  Booth 
on  Prohibition,  161 — Moving  From  Place  to  Place,  162 — On  Smoking 
Cigarettes,  163 — Benediction,  163. 

Hansen,  Elder  John  S Ill 

Hart,  Elder  Charles  H 131 

Haymore,  Elder  Kenneth 155 

Hinckley,  Elder  Alonzo  A 96 

Hyde,  Elder  Charles  S 122 

Ivie,  Elder  Lloyd  0 94 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W 14 

The  Advice  of  Gamaliel,  14 — Norway  Decides  the  "Mormons"  are 
not  Christians,  15 — A  Convention  of  Churches  in  this  Land  Declares 
Us  Un-Christian,    15 — Both   Declarations   Inexcusable  and  Untrue, 


166  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

16 — -What  Constitutes  a  Christian,  16 — The  Answer  Given  in  the 
Words  of  our  Lord  and  His  Disciples,  17 — The  Christian  Church 
Defined,  18 — Calamities  That  Followed,  19 — The  Reason  For  Apos- 
tasy and  Calamities,  19 — Why  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  a  Christian  Church,  20 — Brief  Story  of  the  Founding 
of  the  Church,  20 — The  Church  Not  a  Faction,  But  the  Restored 
Church  of  Christ,  21— We  Do  Not  Believe  It,  Say  Objectors,  21— 
We  Bear  Witness  of  the  Restoration,  22— What  We  Believe,  23 — 
But  What  About  The  Book  of  Mormon,  Say  Objectors,  23— All  the 
"Mormons"  Ask  Is  Permission  to  Believe  as  They  Choose,  23. 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden 45 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden 58 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R 100 

The  Ancient  Prophet's  Specification,  100 — A  Few  Events  Showing 
Joseph  Smith  Divinely  Guided,  100 — Temple  Building,  100 — In 
Independence,  101, — In  Far  West,  101 — In  Illinois,  102 — The  Historic 
Journey,  103 — The  Temple  in  Salt  Lake  City,  104— The  Specifications 
of  the  Ancient  Prophet  Fulfilled,  104. 

McKay,  Elder  David  0 36 

The  Greatest  of  all  Miracles,  36 — The  Reality  of  the  Resurrection 
of  Jesus  Christ,  37 — Witnesses  to  the  Resurrection,  38: — The  Great 
and  Comforting  Message,  38 — A  Latter-day  Witness,  39 — Other  Cor- 
roborative Witnesses,  39 — Where  the  L.  D.  S.  Church  Stands  on 
the  Question,  39 — An  Appeal  to  the  Youth  of  the  Church,  39. 

McKay,  Elder  Thomas  E 71 

McMurrin,  Elder  Joseph  W 85 

Murdock,  Elder  Joseph  R 48 

Nibley,  President  Charles  W 24 

Christ's  Resurrection,  24 — Double  Assurance  of  the  Risen  Lord,  25 — 
Principles  and  Doctrines  the  Same  as  Christ  Taught,  25 — The  Same 
Doctrine,  26— The  Work  Is  Done  Without  Pay,  26— The  Most  Im- 
portant Thing  For  the  World  to  Know,  27 — The  Church  Built  Upon 
The  Rock  of  Revelation,  27 — For  a  testimony,  Go  to  the  Lord,  28 — 
The  Spirit  of  Sacrifice  is  the  Spirit  of  this  Work,  29 — The  Spirit  of 
Sacrifice,  30— May  the  Lord  Glorify  His  Work,  30. 

Peterson,  Elder  Albert  R 115 

Peterson,  Elder  Hugo  D.  E 105 

Quinney,  Elder  Joseph,  Jr 153 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L 81 

The  Priesthocd  and  the  Home  Outstanding  Essentials,  81 — The 
Priesthood  an  Agency  of  Service  to  Mankind,  81 — Priesthood  to  be 
Used  in  the  Administration  of  Home,  82 — No  Organization  a  Substi- 
tute for  Home,  82. 

Richards,  Elder  George  F 147 

Prayer  is  of  Great  Benefit,  147 — The  Spirit  of  God,  the  Soul  of 
the  Church,  147 — The  Spirit  Comes  to  Those  Who  Are  Willing, 
148 — Praise  the  Lord  in  Prayer  for  Opportunity  and  Blessings, 
149 — Other  Ways  Than  Prayer  to  Manifest  Appreciation,  149 — 
Testimony,  150. 

Richards,  Elder  Wm.  H 67 

Robinson,  Elder  James  H 47 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding 40 

Christ  the  First  Fruits  of  the  Resurrection,  40 — Why  the  Resurrec- 


INDEX  167 

tion,  41 — Existence  in  Mortality  Most  Important,  42 — Man's  Resur- 
rection Assured,  43. 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert 143 

A  Marvelous  Age,  143— The  Wisdom  of  Man  Taught,  143 — Addi- 
tional Light  and  Truth  to  be  Taught,  144 — Parents  to  Teach 
Children  the  Things  of  God,  145 — The  Duty  We  Owe  to  our 
Children,  146. 

Smith,  Elder  Elias  A 57 

Smith,  Elder  Hyrum  G 83 

Smith,  Elder  David  A 126 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H 151 

Timbimboo,  Yeagah   (Lamanite)    137 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S 73 

Wells,  Elder  John .119 

White,  Elder  Joseph  B 70 

Whitney,  Elder  Orson  F 30 

Fundamentalists  vs.  Modernists,  31 — Natural  Supernaturalism,  32 — 
Miracles,  The  Fruits  of  Faith,  32 — When  Morning  Stars  Sang 
Together,  33 — Abraham  and  Pre-Existence,  33 — Bishop  Spalding  and 
the  Speaker,  33 — A  Grammatical  Error,  34— The  Creation  Two-Fold, 
35 — Purposes  of  Earth  Life,  35 — Carlyle  Answered,  36. 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A. 107 

Importance  of  the  Body,  d08 — A  Strong  Body  Permits  Spiritual 
Strength,  108— Two  Laws  of  Health,  108— The  Word  of  Wisdom 
a  Binding  Law,  109 — The  Warning  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  109 — 
What  to  Eat,  110 — Modern  Knowledge  Conforms  to  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  110 — We  Should  Use  All  Knowledge,  111 — An  Example 
of  the  Importance  of  Correct  Foods,  111 — Conclusion,  111. 

Young,  Elder  Newell  K 53 

Young,  Elder  Brigham  S 152 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   156 


** 


WHENCE  THIS  GOSPEL  WE  TEACH? 
Read: 

"Restoration  of  the  Gospel 

By  OSBORNE  J.  P.  WIDTSOE 

"This  book  prepared  by  Elder  Osborne  J.  P.  Widtsoe,  dealing  with 
the  important  subject  of  the  Restoration  of  the  everlasting  Gospel, 
should  be  read  and  its  contents  carefully  considered  by  those  who  are 
seeking  after  truth.  It  treats  the  Restoration  clearly,  and  places  before 
the  people  many  things  that  have  not  been  generally  considered  here- 
tofore. It  will  be  a  means  of  strengthening  the  faith  of  the  youth  of 
Israel  and  will  impart  information  that  is  invaluable.  May  the  spirit 
of  truth  accompany  the  work  and  rest  upon  all  those  who  diligently 
read  it  with  a  desire  to  learn  of  and  profit  by  the  Restoration  of  the 

Gospel!" 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr. 

PRICE  $1.00   POSTPAID 

MiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiNiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiimiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiii iiiiimiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiniiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

A  HELPFUL  BOOK  IN  THESE  TIMES  OF  CONTROVERSY 

Science  and  Belief  in  God 

By  FREDERICK  J,  PACK 

A  discussion  of  Certain  Phases  of  Science  and  Their  Bearing  Upon 
Belief  in  the  Supreme  Being. 

$2.50  POSTPAID 

iiiiiituiiirtiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiMitiMiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiitiutiiiiMr l in n t limn  n  intiiiiii iiiitjiuiiiiiiiii 

Articles  of  Faith 

By  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

A  consideration  of  the  principal  doctrines  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

This  book  will  be  helpful  to  all  who  desire  a  clear  and  concrete        |: 
exposition  of  the  beliefs  and  attitudes  of  the  Mormons. 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 

uui»i»n»nm»»»t»»»»»»»ii»iiii»»»»i»»>»»»»:»»»»»»»»»»»»ni»»»»m»m 


H 


Discourses  of  Brigham  Young 

This  Great  Book  Should  be  in  Every 
Home  Library 

No  Latter-day  Saint  home  library  is  complete  without  the  unique 
volume,  "Discourses  of  Brigham  Young."  Thousands  still  living  were 
thrilled  with  the  inspired  wisdom  of  the  great  colonizer.  They  heard 
the  words  fall  from  his  lips  that  were  a  comfort  and  a  guide  to  them 
in  their  daily  living. 

Those  same  words,  now  in  print,  can  help  and  inspire  the  new 
generations.  The  youth  should  be  encouraged  to  read  this  great  book. 
It  will  help  them  to  know  Brigham  Young  as  they  have  never  known 
him  before.  They  can  appraise  his  doctrine,  not  by  tradition  or  garbled 
account,  but  by  the  perusal  of  sermons  accurately  transcribed. 

"Discourses  of  Brigham  Young"  will  be  sent  to  any  address  for 
$2.50  postpaid.  Special  price  to  members  of  Priesthood  Quorums — $2.00 
postpaid.     Orders  will  be  filled  mail  C.  O.  D.  at  $2.00  each,  if  desired. 

ItlllllllllllllllltllllMUIIIIIIflllllllllllllllllllllltllltllllllllltllllltillllltlllllltlllllltlllllUiilllllillHIIIIIIIIIIIIIilllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllltllllllllllllllinilfllll 

WHAT  DID  JOSEPH  SMITH  KNOW  ABOUT  SCIENCE? 
Read: 

Joseph  Smith  as  Scientis 

By  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

"In  the  life  of  every  person,  who  receives  a  higher  education,  in  or 
out  of  schools,  there  is  a  time  when  there  seems  to  be  opposition  be- 
tween science  and  religion;  between  man-made  and  God-made  knowl- 
edge. The  struggle  for  reconciliation  between  the  contending  forces 
is  not  an  easy  one.  It  cuts  deep  into  the  soul  and  usually  leaves  scars 
that  ache  while  life  endures.  There  are  thousands  of  young  people  in 
the  Church  today,  and  hundreds  of  thousands  throughout  the  world,  who 
are  struggling  to  set  themselves  right  with  the  God  above  and  the  world 
about  them.  It  is  for  these  young  people,  primarily,  that  this  book  has 
been  written." 

Deseret  Book  Company 

The  Home  of  Worth  While  Books 

44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 


