I 


1 


3 


ONE  HUNDRED  THIRD 


(^Annual  Qonference 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

April  6,  7,  9, 1933 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


A  THRILLING  STORY 

of  Century  One  of 

CHURCH  HISTORY 

ERE  is  a  new  story  of  "Mormpnism,"  told  with  a  com- 
pleteness and  charm  that  will  thrill  Latter-day  Saints 
with  a  pride  of  achievement  and  at  the  same  time 
win  the  admiration  of  the  critic,  be  he  friend  or  foe.  In  a 
COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH,  B.  H. 
Roberts  has  done  a  masterful  piece  of  research  and  has  set 
down  the  record  of  Century  One — 1830  to  1930 — in  a  bril- 
liant appraisal  of  momentous  events.  The  reader  with  a 
sentimental  interest  will  be  fascinated  with  this  narrative 
of  truth  stranger  than  fiction;  the  reader  who  approaches 
the  new  work  with  the  critical  vision  of  the  historian  will 
find  it  fair  in  statement,  authentic  in  fact,  copious  in  detail 
and  sound  in  judgment. 

A  COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH  was 
written  by  Elder  Roberts  at  the  instance  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  with  a  commission  to  make  it  exhaus- 
tively complete,  from  the  remotest  beginnings  to  the  close 
of  ffie  Centennial  Conference  of  April  6,  1930.  The  final 
volume  ends  with  an  account  of  the  Conference  itself,  mak- 
ing the  history  technically  inclusive  of  all  that  happened  in 
Century  One  of  the  organized  existence  of  the  Church.  Thus 
it  is  a  fitting  commemoration  of  one  hundred  years  of  strug- 
gle and  achievement. 

This  monumental  work  is  not  to  be  confused  with  any  former 
history,  journal  or  chronicle.  Though  its  nucleus  is  the  his- 
tory of  "Mormonism"  published  a  few  years  ago  in 
AMERICANA,  running  serially  for  six  years  through  that 
magazine,  yet  this  History  is  NEW — new  in  its  wealth  of 
material,  new  in  method  of  treatment  and  new  in  its  physical 
representation  of  the  book  maker's  art. 

Cash  Price  $30.00 

For  further  information  address  your  inquiry  to 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


One  Hundred  and  Third  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints 

The  One  Hundred  and  Third  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah,  Thursday,  Friday,  and  Sunday,  April  6,  7,  and  9,  1933. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  at  all  the  sessions  of  the  Con- 
ference. 

The  proceedings  were  broadcast  by  radio,  by  the  courtesy  of  Station 
KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  and 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.* 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  David  O.  McKay, 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard 
R.  Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  f,  and  Joseph  F.  Merrill. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy:  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  J.  Golden 
Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine 
R.  Ivins,  and  Samuel  O.  Bennion.J 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder :  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants:  Andrew  Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  and  A. 
William  Lund. 

President  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors  and  high  councilors  from 
the  various  Stakes  of  Zion. 

Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  Wards  and  their  counselors,  and  numerous 
high  priests,  seventies  and  elders,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  and  General,  Stake, 
and  Ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations. 

Mission  Presidents:  James  H.  Moyle,  Eastern  States;  George  S. 
Romney,  Northern*  States ;  Arthur  Welling,  North  Central  States ; 
Samuel  O.  Bennion,  Central  States ;  Miles  L.  Jones,  East  Central  States ; 

*Elder  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  was  sustained  at  this  Conference  as  Second  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency,  succeeding  Charles  W.  Nibley,  deceased. 

tElder  John  A.  Widtsoe  was  in  Europe,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 

tElder  Samuel  O.  Bennion  was  sustained  at  this  Conference  as  a  member 
of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  succeeding  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  deceased. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States;  Charles  E.  Rowan,  Jr.,  Texas; 
Elias  S.  Woodruff,  Western  States;  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley,  California; 
William  R.  Sloan,  Northwestern  States ;  John  V.  Bluth,  Canada ;  Antoine 
R  Ivins,  Mexico ;  Joseph  S.  Peery,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  auditorium  and  galleries  of  the  great  Tabernacle  were  well 
filled  at  the  opening  session  of  the  Conference,  which  was  called  to  order 
promptly  at  10  o'clock,  Thursday  morning,  April  6,  by  President  Heber 
J.  Grant 

The  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Come,  come,  ye 
Saints." 

Elder  Milton  H.  Welling  offered  the  opening  prayer. 

A  sacred  solo,  "Come  unto  me,"  was  sung  by  Elder  John  Wood. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  General  Authorities  and  Officers  of  the  Church, 
and  by  unanimous  vote  of  the  assembly  they  were  sustained  in  their 
various  offices  and  callings  as  follows : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthony  W.  Ivins,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF   THE   TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  James  E.  Talmage 

Reed  Smoot  Stephen  L.  Richards 

George  Albert  Smith  Richard  R.  Lyman 

George  F.  Richards  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

David  O.  McKay  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Joseph  F.  Merrill 
The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency  and  the  Twelve  Apostles  as 
Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  3 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Brigbam  H.  Roberts 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Levi  Edgar  Young 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Charles  H.  Hart  Samuel  O.  Bennion 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  O.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH    HISTORIAN   AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants :  Andrew 
Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  and  A.  William  Lund. 

CHURCH   BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Anthony  W.  Ivins  David  O.  McKay 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Willard  Young  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Rudger  Clawson  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  Adam  S.  Bennion 
Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER   OF  EDUCATION 

Joseph  F.  Merrill 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp  Orval  W.  Adams  John  W.  Hart 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

David  A.  Smith,  President;  Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor;  B.  Cecil 
Gates,  Assistant  Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.  Kimball  Frank  W.  Asper  Alexander  Schreiner 

CLERK   OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Joseph  Anderson 

At  the  request  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  Elder  David  O.  McKay 
read  the  financial  report  as  follows : 

FINANCIAL  STATEMENT 

The  expenditures  by  the  Church  for  the  year  1932 : 
Stake  and  Ward  Purposes : 

There  has  been  returned  from  the  tithes  to  the  stakes  and 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


wards  for  the  construction  of  ward  and  stake  meeting 
houses   : 

For  ward  maintenance  expenses   

For  stake  maintenance  expenses  


$  240,511.15 
658,103.05 
226,179.58 


$1,124,793.78 


Education : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  of  Church  school  system.  .$  609,467.95 
Temples : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  temples.  .  166,475.96 
Charities : 

For  the  care  of  the  worthy  poor  and  other  charitable  pur- 
poses, including  hospital  treatment   272,163.64 

M issionary  Work : 

For  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  all  the  missions,  and 
for  the  erection  of  places  of  worship  and  other  buildings 


which  has  been  taken  from  the  tithes  and  other  Church 
funds  and  returned  by  the  Trustee-in-Trust  to  the 
Saints  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  the  stakes 
and  wards,  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of 
Church  schools  and  temples,  for  charities  and  mission 
activities. 

Other  Charities: 

In  addition  to  charities  paid  from  the  tithes  as  before 
named,  there  has  also  been  disbursed  the  fast  offerings, 
other  charities  and  assistance  rendered  by  the  Relief 
Society  in  the  sum  of  $443,680.00,  which  amount, 
added  to  the  $272,163.64  paid  from  the  tithes,  makes 
the  total  charity  assistance  rendered  by  the  Church.  .$  715,843.64 

Expended  for  the  Maintenance  of  Missionaries : 

There  has  been  collected  by  the  various  wards  of  the  Church 

and  paid  to  missionaries  to  assist  in  their  maintenance  45,844.93 

Average  cost  per  missionary  in  the  missions  during  the 
year  1932,  $31.80  per  month,  or  a  total  of  $381.60  per 
year  per  missionary.  There  was  an  average  of  1,392 
missionaries  in  the  various  missions  during  1932, 
making  a  total  average  expense  for  the  year   531,187.20 

Estimated  average  earnings  per  missionary  $900.00  per 
year  multiplied  by  1,392,  average  number  of  mission- 
aries, makes  an  estimated  total  of  what  these  mission- 
aries might  have  earned  if  at  home  of  ■   1,252,800.00 


in  the  ' missions 


871,908.21 


Total 


$3,044,809.54 


$1,783,987.20 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


which,  added  to  the  amount  collected  in  the  various 

wards  as  before  named   45,844.93 


makes  a  total  of  $1,829,832.13 

the  estimated  contribution  of  missionaries  and  their 
f  amilies  to  the  Church  for  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel. 

STATISTICS  AND  OTHER  DATA  COMPILED  FROM  THE  ANNUAL  REPORTS  FOR 

THE  YEAR  1932 

There  are  at  the  present  time :  104  Stakes  of  Zion ;  936  Wards ; 
76  Independent  Branches;  31  Dependent  Branches,  or  a  total  of  1,043 
wards  and  branches  in  the  stakes  of  Zion.  There  are  30  missions  (in- 
cluding the  European  Mission),  967  mission  branches,  and  216  districts. 

CHURCH  GROWTH 

Children  blessed  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  Church  in  the 

stakes  and  missions  19,722 

Children  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions   15,283 

Converts  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions   7,825 

Number  of  long-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  December  31,  1932.  1,179 
Number  of  short-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  December  31,  1932 .  1 1 
Number  of  local  missionaries   70 

Total  number  of  missionaries  on  foreign  missions   1,260 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  stakes   1,305 

Total  Missionaries   2,565 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  at  the  Missionary 

Home   348 

Persons  recommended  to  the  temples  from  the  stakes  67,728 


SOCIAL  STATISTICS 


Birth  rate,  28.3  per  thousand. 
Marriage  rate,  13  per  thousand. 
Death  rate,  7  per  thousand. 
Families  owning  their  own  homes,  64.2 


per  cent. 


CHANGES  IN  STAKE  AND  MISSION  OFFICERS  SINCE  LAST  OCTOBER 

CONFERENCE 

Mission  President  Appointed: 

B.  Piranian  appointed  President  of  the  Armenian  Mission. 
Mission  President  Released: 

President  Newel  J.  Cutler  released  from  the  Tongan  Mission.  Elder 
Verl  L.  Stubbs  appointed  to  take  charge  of  the  mission. 

Independent  Branches  Organized : 
Rolapp  Branch,  Carbon  Stake. 
Stockton  Branch,  Tooele  Stake. 
Lomita  Branch,  Eos  Angeles  Stake, 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


General  Authority  who  has  Passed  Away ; 

Joseph  W.  McMurrin  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 

Bishops  who  have  Passed  Away : 

Joseph  H.  Lake,  of  the  Sixteenth  Ward,  Salt  Lake  Stake,  and  also 
City  Commissioner. 

Frank  Pingree  of  the  University  Ward,  Ensign  Stake,  and  Super- 
intendent of  the  L.  D.  S.  Hospital. 

Others  who  have  Passed  Away  : 

George  Careless,  former  leader  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  a  source  of  gratitude  and  thanksgiving  to  me  that  I  am  per- 
mitted to  be  with  you  today  at  this  General  Conference.  I  desire  to 
extend  to  the  Saints  at  home  and  abroad,  and  to  many  friends  not  of  our 
faith,  my  sincere  and  heartfelt  thanks  for  the  many  expressions  of 
fellowship,  good  will  and  love  that  have  been  extended  to  me  since  my 
return  home ;  for  the  many  letters  that  were  written  to  me  by  the  people 
of  the  Church,  and  those  not  of  the  Church,  and  for  the  many  calls  from 
friends  while  I  was  in  the  hospital. 

GRATEFUL  FOR  EVIDENCES  OF  FRIENDSHIP  AND  GOOD  WILL 

I  am  grateful  beyond  expression  for  all  of  these  evidences  of  friend- 
ship and  good  will,  and  particularly  am  I  grateful  to  the  Saints  for  their 
prayers  and  supplications  to  our  Heavenly  Father  in  my  behalf  during 
my  illness.  It  is  a  source  of  a  great  deal  of  satisfaction  to  me  to  have 
received  so  many  evidences  of  good  will  from  people  during  my  sickness. 

I  believe  there  is  no  time  in  one's  life  when  one  feels  and  appreciates 
more  evidences  of  friendship  than  when  one  is  seriously  sick,  and  I  am 
pleased  to  say  that  some  of  the  letters  I  received  were  altogether  unex- 
pected, and  many  of  the  calls  I  had  while  in  the  hospital  were  also  unex- 
pected. At  times  my  room  in  the  hospital  almost  suggested  a  funeral, 
because  of  the  great  quantity  of  beautiful  flowers  there  nearly  all  the  time 
I  was  in  the  hospital. 

WOULD  SOLVE   THE  WORLD'S  PROBLEMS 

I  have  been  thinking  very  seriously  of  the  wonderful  condition  that 
the  world  is  in  today  during  the  great  depression  all  over  the  globe, 
and  I  am  convinced  in  my  own  mind,  without  shadow  of  a  doubt,  that 
a  revelation,  covering  only  one  page,  given  by  the  Lord,  the  Creator  of 
heaven  and  earth,  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  would  solve  the  problems 
of  the  world  if  it  were  obeyed  by  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  not  only 
solve  the  problems  in  our  own  country  but  in  every  country.  In  thinking 
of  what  I  should  say  here  today  in  my  opening  remarks  I  decided  that  I 
would  read  this  revelation. 

There  are  a  great  many  men  and  women,  in  fact  the  great  majority 
of  all  the  people  in  the  world  believe  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  false 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


prophet.  When  you  contemplate  the  fact  that  this  revelation  was  given 
a  little  over  one  hundred  years  ago  and  that  it  is  recognized  as  scienti- 
fically true  today,  after  investigations  have  been  made  by  great  scientific 
minds,  it  is  remarkable  that  a  young  man  should  be  able  to  give  something 
so  marvelous  as  this  Word  of  Wisdom.  So  as  a  tribute  to  the  prophet 
who  gave  it,  who  was  and  is  and  ever  will  be  a  prophet  of  the  living  God. 
I  shall  read  it.  All  the  disbelief  of  the  world  will  never  change  that  fact, 
because  it  is  a  fact.  All  the  disbelief  of  the  world  cannot  change  the  fact 
that  this  man  was  chosen  of  God  and  became  the  head  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world.  Disbelief  does  not  change  facts. 
The  Lord's  law  of  health: 

"A  Word  of  Wisdom,  for  the  benefit  of  the  council  of  high  priests,  assembled 
in  Kirtland,  and  the  Church,  and  also  the  saints  in  Zion — " 

And  I  might  add,  and  also  for  the  people  of  all  the  world. 

"To  be  sent  greeting;  not  by  commandment  or  constraint,  but  by  revelation 
and  the  word  of  wisdom,  showing  forth  the  order  and  will  of  God — " 

THE  WILL  OF  GOP 

Many  Latter-day  Saints  remark,  "Well,  it  was  not  given  by  com- 
mand, therefore  we  do  not  need  to  obey  it."  No  true  Latter-day  Saint 
is  justified  in  saying  that  if  the  Lord  reveals  his  will  to  man  it  is  not  his 
duty  to  obey  it  unless  the  Lord  commands  him  to  do  so.  The  will  of  God, 
in  what? 

" — in  the  temporal  salvation  of  all  saints  in  the  last  days — " 

And  let  me  add,  for  the  temporal  salvation  of  all  people  in  all  parts 
of  the  world  in  the  last  days. 

"evils  and  designs" 

"Behold,  verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  you :  In  consequence  of  evils  and 
designs  which  do  and  will  exist  in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men  in  the  last  days — " 

And  these  are  the  last  days,  please  remember. 

" — I  have  warned  you,  and  forewarn  you,  by  giving  unto  you  this  word 
of  wisdom  by  revelation." 

"Evils  and  designs,"  When  I  see  a  sign  upon  which  is  pictured  a 
man  presenting  a  beautiful  woman  with  an  engagement  ring  on  the  top 
of  a  ring  of  cigaret  smoke,  I  realize  why  the  Lord  saw  fit  to  talk  about 
the  men  who^  would  have  evil  designs  in  these  last  days.  I  never  see  one 
of  those  signs  but  I  think  what  an  absolute  crime  it  is  that  such  a  thing- 
can  be  permitted  in  a  civilized  country. 

"That  inasmuch  as  any  man  drinketh  wine  or  strong  drink  among  you,  behold 
it  is  not  good,  neither  meet  in  the  sight  of  your  Father — " 

The  Lord  says  it  is  not  good,  and  all  the  legislatures  and  all  the 
congresses  and  all  the  senators  and  all  the  officers  in  the  kingdoms  of  the 
world  can  say  otherwise,  but  that  will  not  change  the  word  of  the  Creator 
of  heaven  and  earth. 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

" — only  in  assembling  yourselves  together  to  offer  up  your  sacraments  before 

him. 

"And,  behold,  this  should  be  wine.  yea.  pure  wine  of  the  grape  of  the  vine,  of 
your  own  make. 

"And  again,  strong  drinks  are  not  for  the  belly,  but  for  the  washing  of  your 
bodies." 

I  do  not  suppose  that  when  we  get  whisk)-,  wine,  beer,  etc.,  much 
of  it  will  be  used  for  the  washing  of  people's  bodies. 

"And,  again,  tobacco  is  not  for  the  body,  neither  for  the  belly,  and  is  not  good 
for  man — " 

Please  keep  in  your  minds  that  this  is  the  Lord  speaking. 

" — but  is  an  herb  for  bruises  and  all  sick  cattle,  to  be  used  with  judgment 
and  skill. 

"And  again,  hot  drinks  are  not  for  the  body  or  belly. 

FOR  THE  USE  OF  M A N 

"And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  all  wholesome  herbs  God  hath  ordained 
for  the  constitution,  nature,  and  use  of  man--" 

"Every  herb  in  the  season  thereof,  and  every  fruit  in  the  season  thereof ; 
all  these  to  be  used  with  prudence  and  thanksgiving. 

"Yea,  flesh  also  of  beasts  and  of  the  fowls  of  the  air,  I,  the  Lord,  have 
ordained  for  the  use  of  man  with  thanksgiving ;  nevertheless  they  are  to  be  used 
sparingly ; 

"And  it  is  pleasing  unto  me  that  they  should  not  be  used,  only  in  times  of 
winter,  or  of  cold,  or  famine. 

"All  grain  is  ordained  for  the  use  of  man  and  of  beasts,  to  be  the  staff  of  life, 
not  only  for  man  but  for  the  beasts  of  the  field,  and  the  fowls  of  heaven,  and  all 
wild  animals  that  run  or  creep  on  the  earth ; 

"And,  these  hath  God  made  for  the  use  of  man  only  in  times  of  famine  and 
excess  of  hunger. 

"All  grain  is  good  for  the  food  of  man ;  as  also  the  fruit  of  the  vine ;  that 
which  yieldeth  fruit,  whether  in  the  ground  or  above  the  ground — 

"Nevertheless,  wheat  for  man,  and  corn  for  the  ox,  and  oats  for  the  horse, 
and  rye  for  the  fowls  and  for  swine,  and  for  all  beasts  of  the  field,  and  barley 
for  all  useful  animals,  and  for  mild  drinks,  as  also  other  grains. 

A    MARVELOUS  PROMISE 

"And  all  Saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking  in 
obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel  and  marrow 
to  their  bones ; 

"And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures." 

What  a.  marvelous  promise !  Is  there  anything  to  compare  with 
health?  Those  who  have  been  near  death's  door  many  times  and  who 
have  suffered  year  after  year  in  not  being  able  to  accomplish  anything  in 
the  battle  of  life,  know  what  a  valuable  thing  is  good  health. 

"And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint." 

I  commend  to  all  Latter-day  Saints  that  they  read  the  marvelous 
testimony  delivered  from  this  stand  by  Brother  Creed  Haymond  who  won 
a  championship  in  racing  and  was  the  only  one  on  his  team  who  made 
a  record,  while  the  others  who  had  used  wine  failed. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


"And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying  angel  shall  pass 
by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them." 

THE  WORDS  OF  THE  MARTYRED  PATRIARCH 

It  has  been  a  great  pleasure  to  me  today  to  read  the  words  of  the 
Lord  given  to  Joseph  Smith.  I  am  now  going  to  read  to  you  the  words 
of  the  martyred  Patriarch  : 

"The  Lord  has  told  us  that  'strong  drinks  are  not  for  the  belly.'  Who  is  it 
that  will  say  that  they  are,  when  the  Lord  says  they  are  not  ?  That  man  who  says, 
T  can  drink  wine  or  strong  drink,  and  it  will  not  hurt  me,'  is  not  wise.  Some 
will  say,  T  know  that  it  did  me  good,  for  I  was  fatigued  and  feeble  on  a  certain 
occasion,  and  it  revived  me,  and  I  was  invigorated  thereby;. and  that  is  sufficient 
for  me.'  It  may  be  for  you,  but  it  would  not  be  for  a  wise  man;  for  every  spirit  of 
this  kind  will  only  produce  a  greater  languor  when  its  effects  cease  to  operate 
upon  the  human  body.  But  you  know  that  you  are  benefited?  Yes,  so  does  the 
man  who  has  mortgaged  his  property  know  that  he  is  relieved  from  his  present 
embarrassments;  but  his  temporary  relfcf  only  binds  the  cords  of  bondage  more 
severely  around  him.  The  Lord  has  not  ordained  strong  drink  for  the  belly,  'but 
for  the  washing  of  your  bodies.' 

"And,  again,  'tobacco  is  not  for  the  body,  neither  for  the  belly,  and  it  is  not 
good  for  man,  but  is  an  herb  for  bruises  and  all  sick  cattle,  to  be  used  with 
judgment  and  skill.'  Tobacco  is  a  nauseous,  stinking,  abominable  thing,  and 
1  am  surprised  that  any  human  being  should  think  of  using  it — for  an  ejder 
especially  to  eat  or  smoke  it,  is  a  disgrace  to  him.  He  is  not  fit  for  the  office ;  he 
ought  first  to  learn  to  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  then  to  teach  others.  God 
will  not  prosper  the  man  who  uses  it. 

"And  again,  'hot  drinks  are  not  for  the  body  or  belly.'  There  are  many  who 
wonder  what  that  can  mean,  whether  it  refers  to  tea  or  coffee  or  not  I  say  it 
does  refer  to  tea  and  coffee.  Why  is  it  that  we  are  frequently  so  dull  au'd 
languid?  It  is  because  we  break  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  Disease  preys  upon  our 
systems ;  *  *  *  and  we  do  not  comprehend  the  things  of  God.  The  devil  takes  ad- 
vantage of  us,  and  we  fall  into  temptation. 

"Let  the  Saints  be  wise ;  let  us  lay  aside  our  folly  and  abide  by  the  command- 
ments of  God.  So  shall  we  be  blessed  of  the  Great  Jehovah  in  time  and  in  eternity. 
We  shall  be  healthy,  strong  and  vigorous ;  we  shall  be  enabled  to  resist  disease." 

T1IK  WORDS  OF  RRIGHAM  YOUNG 

It  is  sometimes  a  good  thing  to  turn  back.  We  will  turn  back  to 
the  great  pioneer,  the  man  who  with  others  erected  this  wonderful 
building.  At  the  time  of  its  erection  it  was  the  greatest  building  in  all  the 
United  States,  without  any  center  support  to  the  roof.  He  started  to 
build  a  temple  which  cost  millions  of  dollars  when  there  were  people 
here  without  means  excepting  their  hands,  their  courage,  their  faith  and 
their  knowledge  that  God  lived. 

President  Brigham  Young  said : 

"So  long  as  you  are  able  to  walk  and  attend  to  your  business,  it  is  folly  to 
say  that  you  need  ardent  spirits  to  keep  you  alive.  The  constitution  that  a  person 
has  should  be  nourished  and  cherished;  and  whenever  we  take  anything  into  the 
system  to  force  and  stimulate  it  beyond  its  natural  capacity,  it  shortens  life.  I  am 
physician  enough  to  know  that.  When  you  are  tired  and  think  you  need  a  little 
spirituous  liquor,  take  some  bread  and  butter  or  bread  and  milk,  and  lie  down  and 
rest.  Do  not  labor  so  hard  as  to  deem  it  requisite  to  get  half  drunk  in  order  to 
keep  up  your  spirits.  If  you  will  follow  this  counsel,  you  will  be  full  of  life  and 
health,  and  you  will  increase  your  intelligence,  your  joy  and  comfort. 

"It  is  a  piece  of  good  counsel  which  the  Lord  desires  his  people  to  observe, 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  they  may  live  on  the  earth  until  the  measure  of  their  creation  is  full.  This  is 
the  object  the  Lord  had  in  view  in  giving  that  Word  of  Wisdom.  To  those  who 
observe  it  he  will  give  great  wisdom  and  understanding,  increasing  their  health, 
giving  strength  and  endurance  to  the  faculties  of  their  bodies  and  minds  until  they 
shall  be  full  of  years  upon  the  earth." 

BENEFITS  PROVED 

Let  me  testify  to  the  benefits  of  it.  President  Brigham  Young- 
served  this  people  from  the  day  that  he  was  ordained  an  apostle  for  more 
than  42  years,  until  he  passed  away,  with  all  the  cares  and  hardships  that 
rested  upon  him,  and  when  he  passed  away  he  was  as  old  as  I  am,  76. 
He  was  in  vigorous  health  of  body  and  mind,  but  I  am  sure  that  what  they 
called  inflammation  of  the  bowels  was  appendicitis.  Why?  Because  the 
pain  disappeared  and  we  were  all  rejoicing'  that  he  was  on  the  high  road 
to  recovery.  But  what  really  happened  is  that  the  appendix  had  broken 
and  the  pain  had  disappeared,  but  blood  poisoning  had  set  in. 

The  successor  to  President  Brigham  Young  served  this  people  for 
48  long  years  from  the  day  he  was  ordained  an  apostle.  The  successor 
to  John  Taylor,  Wilford  Woodruff,  served  this  people  59  long  years 
from  the  time  that  he  was  chosen  an  apostle.  Lorenzo  Snow,  who  suc- 
ceeded Wilford  Woodruff,  served  this  people  for  nearly  53  years,  and 
Joseph  F.  Smith  served  them  for  over  52  years.  Fleber  J.  Grant  has 
served  this  people  for  over  50  years. 

GIVES  PERSONAL  TESTIMONY 

I  leave  my  testimony  with  you  that  I  believe  as  firmly  as  I  believe 
anything  in  this  world  that  I  would  not  be  standing  here  today  talking 
to  you  if  I  had  not  obeyed  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  When  my  appendix 
was  removed  it  had  broken  and  blood  poisoning,  so  they  said,  in  the 
third  and  last  stage,  had  set  in.  There  were  nine  doctors  present  and  eight 
said  I  had  to  die.  The  chief  surgeon  in  the  Catholic  hospital  turned  to 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  said :  "Mr.  Smith,  you  need  not  think 
of  such  a  possibility  or  probability  as  that  this  man  shall  live.  Why, 
if  he  should  live  it  would  be  a  miracle,  and  this  is  not  the  day  of  miracles." 

That  was  the  message  delivered  to  me  by  Joseph  F.  Smith  himself 
during  his  last  sickness,  and  he  said :  "Our  doctor  friend  who  said  it 
would  be  a  miracle  has  passed  away.  I  never  saw  you  looking  healthier  in 
my  life  than  you  do  today,  Irleber." 

I  said  to  the  nurse  who  told  me  regarding  these  nine  doctors  that  1 
did  not  want  to  meet  any  of  them,  except  the  one  who  said  and  believed 
that  I  would  pull  through.  She  said:  "Me  is  the  house  doctor;  I  will 
call  him  in." 

I  asked  him  why  he  disagreed  with  the  others,  and  he  smiled,  (he 
was  a  southerner)  and  he  said:  "Mistah  Grant,  ah  just  took  a  chance, 
suh.  Ah  have  felt  the  pulse,  suh,  of  thousands  of  patients,  being  a  house 
doctor,  in  many  many  hospitals,  but  ah  never  felt  a  pulse  just  like  yours, 
suh.  Why,  do  you  know,  suh,  in  all  of  the  tests  that  I  made  during  an 
hour  and  three  quarters  that  you  were  under  the  knife  your  heart  nevah 
missed  one  single,  solitary  beat,  and  ah  made  up  my  mind  that  that  heart 
would  pull  you  through." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


NOT  CONTAMINATED 

What  kind  of  a  heart  did  1  have  ?  I  had  a  heart  that  had  pure  blood 
in  it,  that  was  not  contaminated  by  tea,  coffee  or  liquor.  That  is  why 
the  poison  in  my  system  was  overcome.  The  doctor  who  operated  upon 
me  had  made  an  agreement  with  me  that  he  was  to  tell  me  if  I  had  to  die — 
and  he  did — so  that  I  could  write  a  couple  of  letters.  But  I  did  not  write 
them  because  in  the  kind  providences  of  the  Lord  it  had  been  revealed 
in  a  manifestation  that  I  did  not  have  to  die.  Men  say  we  cannot  receive 
communications  from  the  other  world,  but  my  wife  whose  body  lies  in 
the  grave  visited  my  wife  who  is  alive  and  told  her  that  my  mission  was 
not  yet  ended ;  and  I  had  received  before  that  a  blessing'  by  the  gift  of 
tongues  from  that  identical  wife  whose  body  was  in  the  grave.  And 
what  was  in  that  blessing?  That  I  should  live  to  lift  up  my  voice  in 
many  lands  and  in  many  climes  proclaiming  the  restoration  to  the  earth 
of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

PROPHECY  FULFILLED 

I  had  not  lifted  up  my  voice  in  many  lands  and  many  climes  at  the 
time  I  was  in  the  hospital,  but  subsequently  I  have  lifted  up  my  voice 
in  England,  Ireland,  Scotland,  Wales,  Germany,  France,  Belgium,  Hol- 
land, Switzerland,  Italy,  Norway,  Sweden,  Denmark,  Canada  and  Mexico; 
from  Portland,  Maine,  to  Portland,  Oregon ;  from  the  Canadian  border 
down  to  Florida ;  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands  and  in  far-off  Japan,  proclaim- 
ing the  restoration  to  the.  earth  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
the  plan  of  life  and  salvation ;  bearing  my  witness  that  I  know  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  mankind,  the  Savior  of 
the  world,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  living 
God. 

FURTHER  ADVICE  BY  PRESIDENT  YOUNG 

Continuing  the  remarks  of  lirigham  Young: 

"Many  of  our  sisters  think  they  cannot  live  without  tea.  I  will  tell  you  what 
we  can,  do — I  have  frequently  said  it  to  my  brethren  and  sisters — if  they  cannot 
live  without  tea,  coffee,  brandy,  whisky,  wine,  beer,  tobacco,  etc.,  they  can  die 
without  them.  This  is  beyond  controversy.  If  we  had  the  determination  that  we 
should  have,  we  would  live  without  them  or  die  without  them.  Let  the  mother 
impregnate  her  system  with  these  narcotic  influences  when  she  is  bringing  forth 
a  family  on  the  earth,  and  what  does  she  do?  She  lays  the  foundation  of  weakness, 
palpitation  of  the  heart,  nervous  affections  and  many  other  ills  and  diseases  in 
the  system  of  her  offspring  that  will  afflict  them  from  the  cradle  to  the  grave. 
Is  this  righteous  or  unrighteous,  good  or  evil  ?  Let  my  sisters  ask  and  answer  the 
question  for  themselves,  and  the  conclusion  which  each  and  every  one  of  them  may 
come  to  is  this :  'If  I  do  an  injury  to  my  child,  I  sin.'  " 

DOCTORS  GIVE  EVIDENCE 

I  have  been  trying  to  find  what  a  brother  wrote  to  me  some  days 
ago,  and  so  has  he,  but  we  have  failed — a  statement  that  I  wish  I  could 
read  to  you  here,  if  it  be  true — and  I  have  very  little  doubt  but  that  it  is 
true — to  the  effect  that  there  are  some  first-class  physicians  who  will 
not  answer  a  call  to  a  wife  who  is  to  become  a  mother  if  she  is  an 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


inveterate  cigaret  smoker,  announcing  that  the  rate  of  mortality  is  alto- 
gether too  great  among  such  for  them  to  risk  their  reputation. 

THE  WORDS  OF  PRESIDENT  TAYLOR 

President  John  Taylor : 

"For  this  purpose  he  (God)  has  gathered  us  here  as  we  are  here  today — that 
while  we  are  pursuing  the  natural  avocations  of  life,  we  might  at  the  same  time 
be  taught  and  instructed  of  God,  that  we  might  learn  the  laws  of  life — that  we 
might  be  purified  from  the  corruptions  and  infamies  that  exist  in  the  world,  and 
that  our  spirits  might  be  purged  from  everything  that  tends  to  deteriorate,  injure 
or  destroy  man ;  and  that  we  might  be  enabled  to  comprehend  those  principles 
w  hich  are  calculated  to  elevate,  to  exalt  and  ennoble  mankind,  and  to  prepare  them 
for  the  enjoyment  of  a  place  among  the  Gods  in  the  eternal  worlds. 

"And  in  regard  to  drunkenness  we  will  not  be  contaminated  nor  disgraced 
with  infamy  of  such  conduct — and  as  the  honesty  of  a  man  can  only  be  tested  by 
his  having  temptation  within  his  reach,  so  no  man  can  be  considered  as  acting 
properly  who  cannot  let  liquor  alone,  when  that  is  within  his  reach.  Virtue  does 
not  consist  simply  in  being  prevented  from  committing  evils,  but  in  having  tempta- 
tions presented  before  us  and  then  governing  our  passions  and  appetites.  Good 
and  evil  are  placed  before  us,  no  matter  by  whom,  it  is  for  us  to  resist  evil  and 
cleave  to  the  right.  We  are  told  that  it  is  to  him  that  overcometh  that  I  will  grant 
to  sit  down  on  my  throne,  as  I  have  overcome  and  sat  down  on  my  Father's  throne. 
Neither  do  we  want  any  excuses  for  any  of  these  things,  for  God  will  condemn 
us  if  we  bear  them,  and  his  wrath  will  be  enkindled  against  us,  and  we  shall  find 
it  a  hard  matter  to  pack  such  infamies  upon  our  shoulders.  Now  it  is  for  us  to 
choose  what  course  we  will  pursue. 

"We  want  men  who  are  Saints  from  principle,  men  who  love  God,  who  keep 
his  commandments,  men  who  are  pure  and  virtuous,  men  who  are  seeking  to 
glorify  God  through  obedience  to  his  laws,  and  men  who  do  these  things  because 
they  love  to  do  them. 

"We  have  entered  into  covenants  with  God,  and  it  is  only  on  the  condition  of 
our  keeping  our  covenants  inviolate  that  we  shall  be  entitled  to  the  exceedingly 
great  and  precious  promises  which  he  has  made  to  us.  And  he  does  expect  us  to 
be  true  to  him." 

PRESIDENT  WOODRUFF  QUOTED 

President  Wilford  Woodruff : 

"We  are  sent  into  this  world  to  accomplish  a  great  purpose,  and  to  fulfil  the 
object  of  our  creation  we  must  observe  the  commandments  of  God,  and  obey  the 
ordinances  of  his  house,  and  walk  in  them  while  we  live  in  the  flesh,  that  when 
we  have  done  with  this  body  we  can  go  back  into  the  presence  of  our  Father  and 
our  God  and  receive  in  fulness  the  blessings  and  promises  made  to  his  children. 

"Those  persons  who  will  not  walk  according  to  the  light  they  have,  must 
sooner  or  later  inherit  sore  afflictions  to  themselves ;  they  do  not  have  joy,  and 
happiness,  and  salvation  like  that  person  who  obeys  the  commandments  of  God 
and  constantly  does  that  which  is  right.  The  wicked  are  always  in  fear.  There 
is  no  inducement  for  a  man  or  woman  to  commit  sin — it  is  not  a  paying  business. 
It  is  better  for  us  to  serve  the  Lord ;  for  those  who  serve  the  Lord  morning,  noon 
and  night  are  happy,  whether  they  be  rich  or  poor." 

RIDICULE  RECALLED 

I  call  to  mind  that  upon  one  occasion  a  man  ridiculed  the  Latter-day- 
Saints,  saying,  "You  people  are  always  happy.  If  a  man  hits  a  Mormon 
and  knocks  him  down,  the  Mormon  thanks  the  Lord  because  he  needed 
a  little  chastisement ;  and  if  you  hit  at  a  Mormon  and  miss  him,  he  thanks 
the  Lord  for  not  getting  hit." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


13 


"Let  us  try  to  live  our  religion,  and  try  to  be  friends  of  God;  and  let  us  make 
war  against  the  works  of  the  devil.  Let  us  seek  to  overcome  ourselves,  and  all 
our  evil  impressions,  and  bring  our  bodies  in  subjection  to  the  law  of  Christ,  that 
we  may  walk  in  the  light  of  the  Lord,  gain  power  with  him,  and  assist  in  sanctifying 
the  earth  and  in  building  up  temples,  and  in  attending  to  the  ordinances  of  the 
house  of  God,  that  we  may  be  saviors  of  men,  both  of  the  living  and  the  dead.  These 
are  our  privileges,  and  the  blessings  which  the  God  of  heaven  has  put  into  our 
hands. 

"Our  President  (Brigham  Young)  has  frequently  told  us  that  we  cannot 
separate  the  temporal  from  the  spiritual,  but  they  must  go  hand  in  hand  together; 
and  so  it  is,  and  so  we  must  act  in  reference  to  building  up  the  Church  and 
Kingdom  of  God.  We  should  foresee  the  evil,  and  then  foreseeing  it  we  should 
hide  ourselves,  and  preserve  ourselves  in  purity  and  holiness. 

"Our  temporal  and  eternal  salvation  is  all  connected  and  linked  together.  *  *  * 
The  Lord  has  raised  up  unto  us  fathers,  leaders,  and  counselors  after  his  own 
heart:  they  possess  his  will,  and  they  are  leading  the  people  to  exaltation  and 
glory." 

FROM  PRESIDENT  SNOW 

President  Lorenzo  Snow : 

"The  Gospel  is  proclaimed,  a  channel  is  opened  through  which  individuals 
may  receive  a  knowledge  of  things  pertaining  to  life  and  salvation,  of  those  things 
that  are  required  at  their  hands,  and  of  the  course  they  should  pursue  as  the 
servants  and  handmaidens  of  God. 

"This  Gospel,  which  God  has  commanded  us  to  offer  to  the  world,  is  an  order 
or  system  of  things,  simple,  plain,  and  may  easily  be  understood.  In  regard  to 
its  principles,  the  nature  of  its  requirements,  and  the  precise  kind  and  character 
of  its  blessings  and  promises,  no  one,  however  ignorant  or  unlearned,  needs  to  be 
left  in  the  dark;  but  may  discover  its  golden  truths,  and  the  emblazoned  mark 
of  divinity  in  its  arrangements. 

"This  system  of  religion,  in  its  nature,  in  the  character  of  its  origin,  the 
manner  of  operations,  and  in  the  purposes  for  which  it  was  designed,  coupled  with 
the  fact  that  people  of  honest  hearts  can  and  will  appreciate  divine  truth,  is  such 
that  it  cannot  be  destroyed.  A  man  who  is  honest,  full  of  integrity  and  love  for 
the  interest  and  happiness  of  mankind,  having  explored  this  long  untrodden  path, 
and  made  this  glorious  discovery,  will  not  and  cannot  keep  silent,  but  despite  of 
threats  and  opposition,  however  fierce  and  terrific,  will  boldly  declare  the  glorious 
fact,  spreading  and  multiplying  this  divine  intelligence,  and  if  so  required,  seal 
his  testimony  with  his  own  life's  blood. 

"Our  mission  is  to  the  world  and  not  simply  to  carry  the  Gospel  to  the  people, 
but  to  establish  plans  and  lay  schemes  for  their  temporal  salvation.  Our  object 
is  the  temporal  salvation  of  the  people  as  much  as  their  spiritual  salvation. 

"A  religious  system  is  of  but  little  account  when  it  possesses  no  virtue  nor 
power  to  better  the  condition  of  people,  spiritually,  intellectually,  morally  and 
physically." 

PRESIDENT  SMITH  QUOTED 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith: 

"I  do  wish  with  all  my  heart — not  because  I  say  it,  but  because  it  is  written 
in  the  word  of  the  Lord — that  you  would  give  heed  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
It  was  given  unto  us  'not  by  commandment' ;  but  by  the  word  of  President  Brigham 
Young,  it  was  made  a  commandment  unto  the  Saints.  It  is  written  here  for  our 
guidance,  for  our  happiness  and  advancement  in  every  principle  that  pertains  to  the 
kingdom  of  God,  in  time  and  throughout  eternity,  and  1  pray  you  to  observe  it.  It 
will  do  you  good ;  it  will  ennoble  your  souls ;  it  will  free  your  thoughts  and  your 
hearts  from  the  spirit  of  destruction ;  it  will  make  you  feel  like  God,  who  sustains 
even  the  sparrow,  that  it  does  not  fall  to  the  ground  without  his  notice;  it  will 
bring  you  nearer  to  the  similitude  of  the  Son  of  God,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  who 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


healed  the  sick,  who  made  the  lame  to  leap  for  joy,  who  restored  hearing  to  the 
deaf  and  sight  to  the  blind,  who  distributed  peace,  joy  and  comfort  to  all  with  whom 
he  came  in  contact,  and  who  cursed  and  destroyed  nothing,  save  it  was  the  barren 
fig  tree,  and  that  was  to  show  forth  his  power  more  than  anything  else. 

"  'And  all  Saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking  in 
obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel,  and  marrow 
to  their  bones. 

"  'And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures ; 

"  'And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint ; 

"  'And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying  angel  shall 
pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them.' 

"Are  these  glorious  promises  not  sufficient  to  induce  us  to  observe  this  Word 
of  Wisdom?  Is  there  not  something  here  that  is  worthy  our  attention?  Are  not 
'great  treasurers'  of  knowledge,  even  'hidden  treasures',  something  to  be  desired? 
But  when  I  see  men  and  women  addicting  themselves  to  the  use  of  tea  and  coffee,  or 
strong  drinks,  or  tobacco  in  any  form,  I  say  to  myself,  here  are  men  and  women 
who  do  not  appreciate  the  promises  God  has  made  unto  them." 

POET  QUOTED 

There  are  three  lessons  I  would  write, 
Three  words  as  with  a  burning  pen; 
In  tracings  of  eternal  light, 
Upon  the  hearts  of  men. 

Have  faith,  though  clouds  environ  round. 
And  gladness  hides  her  face  in  scorn. 
Put  off  the  darkness  from  thy  brow ; 
No  night  but  hath  its  morn. 

Have  hope,  where'er  thy  bark  is  driven, 
The  calm  distorts  the  tempest's  mirth, 
Know  this,  God  rules  the  Hosts  of  Heaven, 
The  inhabitants  of  earth. 

Have  love,  not  love  alone  for  one, 
But  man  as  man  thy  brother  call, 
And  scatter  as  the  circling  sun 
Thy  charities  on  all. 

— Goethe. 

A  FAVORITE  HYMN 

God  moves  in  a  mysterious  way, 

His  wonders  to  perform ; 
He  plants  his  footsteps  in  the  sea, 

And  rides  upon  the  storm. 

Deep  in  unfathomable  mines, 

Of  never  failing  skill, 
He  treasures  up  His  bright  designs, 

And  works  His  sovereign  will. 

Ye  fearful  Saints,  fresh  courage  take, 

The  clouds  ye  so  much  dread 
Are  big  with  mercy,  and  shall  break, 

In  blessings  on  your  head. 

Judge  not  the  Lord  by  feeble  sense, 

But  trust  Him  for  his  grace ; 
Behind  a  frowning  providence, 

He  hides  a  smiling  face.  ..... 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J  .'GRANT 


15 


His  purposes  will  ripen  fast, 

Unfolding  every  hour, 
The  bud  may  have  a  bitter  taste, 

But  sweet  will  be  the  flower. 

Blind  unbelief  is  sure  to  err, 

And  scan  his  works  in  vain ; 
God  is  his  own  interpreter, 

And  He  will  make  it  plain. 

The  hymn  which  I  have  just  read  was  the  favorite  hymn  of  the  late 
President  Wilford  Woodruff.  We  sang-  it  oftener  in  our  council  meet- 
ing's than  any  other  when  he  was  with  us.  If  there  ever  was  a  man  who 
acknowledged  the  hand  of  God  in  all  things  more  perfectly  than  did 
Wilford  Woodruff  I  never  knew  him. 

FROM  THOMAS  A.  EDISON 

One  of  the  greatest  benefactors  of  mankind,  in  my  judgment,  by  his 
discoveries  in  electricity  was  Thomas  A.  Edison.  Way  back  in  1914 
he  wrote  a  letter  to  Henry  Ford  in  which  he  said  : 

"The  injurious  agent  in  cigarets  comes  principally  from  the  burning  paper 
wrapper.  The  substance  thereby  formed  is  called  'Acrolein.'  It  has  a  violent 
action  on  the  nerve  centers,  producing  degeneration  of  the  cells  of  the  brain  which 
is  quite  rapid  among  the  boys.  Unlike  most  narcotics  this  degeneration  is  perma- 
nent and  uncontrollable.    I  employ  no  person  who  smokes  cigarets." 

This  was  written  in  1914,  as  I  have  said.  I  know  a  great  many 
people  who  formerly  did  not  employ  people  who  smoked  cigarets,  but 
cigaret  smoking  has  increased  so  wonderfully,  from  a  few  hundred  million 
up  to  hundreds  of  billions,  that  they  have  found  it  necessary  to  change 
that  rule. 

ENORMOUS  CONSUMPTION  OF  CIGARETS 

During  the  last  four  years  internal  revenue  was  paid  upon  a  con- 
sumption of  459,419,564,744,  or  an  average  of  114,854,891,186  cigarets 
a  year. 

What  is  a  billion?  During  the  World  war  when  we  were  raising 
$6,000,000,000  through  the  sale  of  Liberty  bonds,  the  great  New  York 
Life  Insurance  Co.  sent  out  a  circular  announcing  that  a  billion  was  the 
equivalent  of  one  dollar  for  every  minute  from  the  birth  of  the  Savior 
until  now.  So  each  year  for  four  years — and  this  is  not  what  somebody 
says,  but  it  is  from  collections  of  internal  revenue — 114,854,891,186 
cigarets  were  consumed  in  the  United  States,  which  would  be  equivalent 
to  114  cigarets  for  every  minute  since  the  birth  of  the  Savior.  It  seems 
incredible.  "In  consequence  of  evils  and  designs  which  do  and  will  exist 
in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men."  I  have  read  that  the  tobacco  interests 
hope  during  this  year  to  add  30,000,000  women  to  their  list  of  cigaret 
smokers. 

AN    IMPRESSIVE  LESSON 

1  read  from  the  book,  "Personal  Efficiency,"  by  James  Samuel 
Knox,  A.  M. : 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

"'You  smoke  thirty  cigarets  a  day?' 
"  'Yes,  on  the  average.' 

"  'You  don't  blame  them  for  your  run  down  condition  ?' 
"  'Not  in  the  least.    I  blame  my  hard  work.' 

"The  physician  shook  his  head.  He  smiled  in  a  vexed  way.  Then  he  took 
a  leech  out  of  a  glass  jar. 

"  'Let  me  show  you  something,'  he  said.    'Bare  your  arm.' 

"The  cigaret  smoker  bared  his  pale  arm,  and  the  doctor  laid  the  lean,  black 
leech  upon  it.  The  leech  fell  to  work  busily.  Its  body  began  to  swell.  Then,  all 
of  a  sudden,  a  shudder  convulsed  it,  and  it  fell  to  the  floor — dead. 

"  'That's  what  your  blood  did  to  that  leech,'  said  the  physician.  He  took 
up  the  little  corpse  between  his  finger  and  thumb.  'Look  at  it,'  he  said.  'Quite 
dead,  you  see.  You  poisoned  it' 

"  'I  guess  it  wasn't  a  healthy  leech  in  the  first  place,'  said  the  cigaret  smoker 
sullenly. 

"  'Wasn't  healthy,  eh  ?    Well,  we'll  try  again.' 

"And  the  physician  clapped  two  leeches  on  the  young  man's  thin  arm. 
"  'If  they  both  die,  said  the  patient,  I'll  swear  off — or,  at  least,  I'll  cut  down 
my  daily  allowance  from  thirty  to  ten.'  " 

What  would  ten  do  to  him  ?  A  boy  who  smokes  ten  cigarets  a  day 
has  inhaled  enough  poison  to  kill  twenty  frogs. 

"Even  as  he  spoke  the  smaller  leech  shivered  and  dropped  on  his  knee  dead, 
and  a  moment  later  the  larger  one  fell  beside  it. 

'"This  is  ghastly,'  said  the  young  man;  'I  am  worse  than  the  pestilence  to 
these  leeches.' 

"  'It  is  the  empyreumatic  oil  in  your  blood,'  said  the  medical  man.  'All 
cigaret  smokers  have  it.' 

"  'Doctor,'  said  the  young  man,  regarding  the  three  dead  leeches  thoughtfully, 
'I  half  believe  you're  right.'  " 

EFFECT  UPON  STUDENTS 

"It  is  said  that  within  the  past  fifty  years  not  a  student  at  Harvard  University 
who  used  tobacco  has  been  graduated  at  the  bead  of  his  class,  although  on  the 
average  five  out  of  six  used  tobacco." 

Just  exactly  five  hundred  per  cent  more  tobacco  smokers  in  the 
classes,  and  yet  in  fifty  years  not  one  of  them  was  graduated  at  the  head 
of  his  class. 

"An  investigation  of  all  the  students  who  entered  Yale  University  during 
nine  years  shows  that  the  cigaret  smokers  were  the  inferiors  both  in  weight  and 
lung  capacity  of  the  non-smokers,  although  they  averaged  fifteen  months  older." 

I  would  like  to  read  you  this  whole  book  but  I  shall  not  take  the  time. 

A  VICTIM  OF  CIGARETS 

"A  young  man  died  in  a  Minnesota  state  institution  not  long  ago,  who  five 
years  before  had  been  one  of  the  most  promising  young  physicians  of  the  West. 
'Still  under  thirty  years  at  the  time  of  his  commitment  to  the  institution,'  says 
a  newspaper  account  of  the  story.  He  had  already  made  three  discoveries  in 
nervous  diseases  which  had  made  him  well  known  in  his  profession.  But  he 
smoked  cigarets — smoked  incessantly.  For  a  long  time  the  effects  of  the  habit 
were  not  apparent,  in  fact,  it  was  not  until  a  patient  died  on  the  operating  table 
under  his  hands,  and  the  young  doctor  went  to  pieces,  that  it  became  known  that 
lie  was  a  victim  of  the  paper  pipes.  But  then  he  had  gone  too  far.  He  was  a 
wreck  in  mind  as  well  as  in  body,  and  ended  his  days  in  a  maniac's  cell." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


17 


JUDGE  SPEAKS 

"Magistrate  Crane  of  New  York  City,  says :  'Ninety-nine  out  of  a  hundred 
boys  between  the  ages  of  10  and  17  years  who  come  before  me  charged  with  crime 
have  their  fingers  disfigured  by  yellow  cigaret  stains.  I  am  not  a  crank  on  this 
subject,  I  do  not  care  to  pose  as  a  reformer,  but  it  is  my  opinion  that  cigarets  will 
do  more  than  liquor  to  ruin  boys.  *  *  *  There  is  something  in  the  poison  of  the 
cigaret  that  seems  to  get  into  the  system  of  the  boy  which  destroys  all  moral  fiber.' 

"He  gives  the  following  probable  course  of  a  boy  who  begins  to  smoke 
cigarets :  First,  cigarets.  Second,  beer  and  liquors.  Third,  craps,  petty  gambling. 
Fourth,  horse  racing — gambling  on  a  bigger  scale.  Fifth,  larceny.  Sixth,  state 
prison.'  " 

AN  INTERESTING  EXPERIMENT 

"Dr.  J.  H.  Kellogg  says :  'A  few  months  ago  I  had  all  the  nicotine  removed 
from  a  cigaret,  making  a  solution  out  of  it.  I  injected  half  the  quantity  into  a  frog 
with  the  effect  that  the  frog  died  almost  instantly.  The  rest  was  administered 
to  another  frog  with  like  effect.  Both  frogs  were  full  grown  and  of  average 
size.  The  conclusion  is  evident  that  a  single  cigaret  contains  poison  enough  to 
kill  two  frogs.'  "    Then  he  goes  on  to  tell  that  twenty  cigarets  killed  forty  frogs. 

I  have  enough  material  to  talk  to  you  for  an  hour  or  two  but  I  see 
I  have  been  talking  now  for  fifty-two  minutes,  and  I  think  that  that  is 
probably  long  enough.  I  shall  try  to  get  through  in  the  next  seven 
minutes  and  make  it  an  even  hour. 

TESTIMONY  OF  AN  INVENTOR 

"Hudson  Maxim  has  won  world  renown  as  the  inventor  of  high  explosives 
for  use  in  battle  ship  guns  and  torpedoes  and  for  various  other  purposes.  He 
comes  out  squarely  against  the  cigaret  in  this  fashion: 

"  'The  wreath  of  cigaret  smoke  which  curls  about  the  head  of  the  growing 
lad  holds  his  brain  in  an  iron  grip  which  prevents  it  from  growing  and  his  mind 
from  developing  just  as  surely  as  the  iron  shoe  does  the  foot  of  the  Chinese  girl. 

"  'In  the  terrible  struggle  for  survival  against  the  deadly  cigaret  smoke, 
development  and  growth  are  sacrificed  by  nature,  which  in  the  fight  for  very  life 
itself  must  yield  up  every  vital  luxury  such  as  healthy  body  growth  and  growth 
of  brain  and  mind. 

"  'If  all  boys  could  be  made  to  know  that  with  every  breath  of  cigaret  smoke 
they  inhale  imbecility  and  exhale  manhood,  that  they  are  tapping  their  arteries  as 
surely  and  letting  their  life's  blood  out  as  truly  as  though  their  veins  and  arteries 
were  severed,  and  that  the  cigaret  is  a  maker  of  invalids,  criminals  and  fools — 
not  men — it  ought  to  deter  them  some.  The  yellow  finger  stain  is  an  emblem 
of  deeper  degradation  and  enslavement  than  the  ball  and  chain'." 

BURRANK'S  DECLARATION 

"Several  of  my  young  acquaintances  are  in  their  graves  who  gave  promise 
of  making  happy  and  useful  citizens,''  declares  Luther  Burbank,  the  wizard  of 
the  plant  and  vegetable  kingdom,  whose  experiments  have  caused  the  civilized 
world  to  wonder" — and  whose  experiments  have  benefited  the  civilized  world 
millions  upon  millions  of  dollars  every  year — '"and  there  is  no  question  what- 
ever that  cigarets  alone  were  the  cause  of  their  destruction.  No  boy  living 
would  commence  the  use  of  cigarets  if  he  knew  what  a  useless,  soulless,  worthless 
thing  they  would  make  of  him." 

A   NEW  ARITHMETIC 

"  'I  am  not  much  of  a  mathematician,'  said  the  cigaret,  'but  I  can  add  nervous 
troubles  to  a  boy,  I  can  subtract  from  his  physical  energy,  I  can  multiply  his 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


aches  and  pains,  1  can  divide  his  mental  powers,  I  can  take  interest  from  his 
work  and  discount  his  chances  for  success'." 

As  I  was  not  here  six  months  ago  I  thought  I  was  entitled  to  occupy 
an  hour,  and  that  is  why  I  have  taken  so  much  time. 
The  Lord  bless  you,  Amen. 

The  congregation  arose  and  sang  the  hymn,  "Now  let  us  rejoice  in 
the  day  of  salvation." 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  am  thankful  for  the  privilege  of  attending  this  General  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  know  it  will  result  in  blessings  to 
the  people  and  be  profitable  to  all  those  present  and  the  thousands  that  are 
ma-king  use  of  the  radio  to  hear  all  that  may  be  said  during  the  three 
days  of  this  Annual  Conference. 

At  this  conference,  like  all  that  have  been  held  in  the  past,  words  of 
counsel,  instructions,  and  admonitions  will  be  given,  and  never  before 
in  the  history  of  the  Church  were  they  so  sorely  needed.  The  opening 
remarks  of  President  Grant  were  timely  and  given  under  the  inspiration 
of  our  Heavenly  Father,  and  if  followed  will  result  in  God's  blessings  to 
all.  Let  our  constant  prayer  be  for  the  glory  and  welfare  of  the  Church 
and  for  the  preservation  of  the  United  States. 

THE  WORLD'S  MOST  URGENT  NEED 

The  distracted  world  of  today  needs  above  all  things,  true  religion 
as  taught  by  Jesus  Christ-  while  in  the  flesh  and  restored  in  this  the  last 
dispensation  through  Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet.  Our  Church  has  a 
regard  for  the  welfare  of  God's  children  and  the  ultimate  salvation  of 
them  all.  Our  religion  does  not  make  its  adherents  selfish,  but  on  the 
contrary  creates  in  their  hearts  a  feeling  of  charity  and  desire  to  bless. 
We  do  not  wish  the  downfall  of  a  son  or  daughter  of  God,  but  rather 
we  desire  their  happiness,  comfort  and  joy.  This  was  our  Heavenly 
Father's  desire  and  plan  in  the  beginning.  His  plan  of  salvation  which 
was  prepared  before  the  creation  of  the  world  was  designed  for  the 
improvement,  the  benefit  and  the  ultimate  salvation  of  all  his  sons  and 
daughters.  Whenever  we  have  a  desire  to  assist  our  fellowman  we  take 
the  position  approved  by  our  Heavenly  Father,  but  when  we  feel  other- 
wise, we  are  on  slippery  ground.  The  Master  came  into  the  world  not 
to  condemn  the  world,  but  that  the  world  through  him  might  be  saved. 
That  was  the  purpose  of  the  coming  of  our  Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  in  the 
flesh,  and  of  the  atonement  that  he  wrought  out  for  mankind  by  his 
death  on  the  cross. 

How  often  I  have  been  asked,  and  in  all  sincerity  I  might  add,  if  the 
Mormon  Church  believes  in  Jesus  Christ  ?  My  answer  has  always  been, 
"Perhaps  to  a  greater  degree  than  any  other  Church  organization  in  the 
world."  We  believe  Jesus  Christ  to  be  the  actual  Son  of  God — the 
second  in  the  Godhead,  foreordained  to  his  birth,  his  mission  and  cruci- 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


19 


fixion.  The  spirit  of  Christ  is  the  spirit  of  salvation,  of  blessing  to  do 
good,  to  prepare  us  all  for  the  presence  of  our  eternal  Father  and  to 
enjoy  the  glory  of  his  kingdom. 

SALVATION   FOR  ALL 

I  have  been  asked  hundreds,  if  not  thousands  of  times,  what  differ- 
ence there  is  between  the  belief  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  that  of  most 
of  the  Christian  denominations — as  to  the  ultimate  salvation  of  the 
peoples  of  this  world.  I  have  answered  briefly  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
teach  that  salvation  is  for  all  people — of  all  ages,  of  all  races,  of  all  colors, 
— who  can  be  saved.  The  revelation  to  Joseph  Smith  is  that  salvation  is 
to  come  to  all,  and  that  none  will  be  lost  who  can  possibly  be  redeemed — 
that  the  plan  of  salvation  is  as  broad  as  the  fall  of  man. 

Our  first  parents  broke  a  divine  law  and  through  their  disobedience 
death  came  into  the  world — while  on  the  other  hand,  through  the  atone- 
ment and  obedience  of  Christ,  life  and  salvation  will  ultimately  come 
to  all  the  family  of  Adam.  "As  in  Adam  all  die,  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be 
made  alive." 

A  DIVINE  MESSAGE 

We  all  testify  that  in  the  nineteenth  century  our  Heavenly  Father 
has  been  pleased  to  open  the  heavens  once  more  and  send  his  Son,  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Redeemer,  with  a  divine  message,  conforming  in  every 
respect  to  the  teachings  of  this  same  Christ  while  in  mortality.  We  know 
that  angels  have  been  sent  from  the  Father  declaring  truths  that  would 
insure  salvation  for  all  who  receive  and  obey  them.  I  recognize  that  the 
ordinary  person  hesitates  a  long  time  before  he  considers  it  worth  while 
to  consider  such  a  declaration,  and  he  can  never  become  convinced  until 
through  faith  and  prayer  a  testimony  from  an  unerring  source  is  received 
by  him.  We  declare  that  angels  have  come  down  from  heaven,  bringing 
light  and  truth  for  the  salvation  of  all  the  human  family,  and  a  message 
to  be  proclaimed  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people.  How  well 
this  obligation  on  our  part  has  been  carried  forward  God  knows  best. 

THE  PERSONALITY  OF  GOD 

The  greatest  religious  teacher  among  men  was  Jesus,  the  Nazarene. 
In  his  personality  God  was  manifest  in  the  flesh.  He  revealed  Deity  to 
humanity.  He  showed  that  God  was  in  reality  the  Father  of  the  spirits 
of  men.  He  proclaimed  that  he  was  in  the  beginning  with  God — that 
he  came  forth  from  God,  land  would  return  to  God  and  that  all  mankind 
were  his  brethren,  made  in  the  image  of  God,  and  part  of  his  eternal 
family.  This  presents  God  as  actually  and  literally  "Our  Father  which 
art  in  heaven."  It  takes  away  the  mystery  with  which  false  faiths  have 
enveloped  the  Supreme  Being — beclouding  the  minds  of  men  and  making 
God  utterly  incomprehensible. 

Jesus  taught  that  his  Father  and  our  Father  is  a  personal  being — 
man  being  in  his  likeness  - —  Jesus  being  himself  in  his  express 
image.  He  taught  also  that  he  was  sent  into  the  world  to  save 
mankind  and  bring  them  back  to  the  Father's  presence;  that  no  man 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


could  come  unto  God  but  by  him.  The  true  Christian  religion,  therefore, 
combines  faith  in  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son,  with  faith  in  God  the  eternal 
Father. 

NOT  ONE  IN  PERSON 

Christ  further  taught  the  existence  of  a  divine  Spirit  proceeding 
from  God,  to  enlighten  the  souls  of  men ;  that  is,  the  Holy  Ghost,  by 
which  the  mind  and  will  of  God  may  be  made  known  to  man,  and  by 
which  holy  men  chosen  of  God,  have  been  inspired  in  different  ages  to 
declare  his  word. 

That  the  unity  of  the  Godhead  is  not  oneness  in  person  is  made 
very  clear  in  the  account  of  the  baptism  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  Son  on 
that  occasion,  coming  up  out  of  the  waters  of  Jordan,  the  Holy  Spirit 
descending  upon  him  in  the  form  of  a  dove,  and  the  voice  of  the  Father 
from  heaven  proclaiming  "This  is  my  beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am  well 
pleased."  Jesus  said,  "I  came  forth  from  the  Father,  and  am  come  unto 
the  world :  again,  I  leave  the  world,  and  go  to  the  Father."  He  also 
prayed  to  the  Father  and  in  the  prayer  recorded  by  John,  explained  in 
unmistakable  language  what  he  meant  when  he  declared,  "I  and  my 
Father  are  one." 

Anything  that  God  reveals  must  be  true,  because  he  is  truth,  and 
everything  that  comes  by  the  way  of  Jesus  Christ,  his  beloved  Son,  must 
be  true,  for  he  is  the  way,  the  truth  and  the  life.  No  error  will  be  intro- 
duced into  the  world  under  the  direction  of  the  Father,  or  the  Son. 

DESTRUCTIVE  AGENCIES 

We  are  living  in  trying  times — international  struggles  are  imminent 
■ — -"Nation  rising  against  Nation"  for  supremacy  and  existence.  Civilized 
governments  are  threatened  by  internal  and  destructive  agencies  in  the 
form  of  Communism.  This  secret  organization  assumes  different  names 
and  forms.  It  is  Communism  in  France,  Socialism  in  Germany,  Inter- 
nationalism in  Spain  and  Italy,  Nihilism  in  Russia,  and  similar  sentiments 
and  principles  are  cloaked  under  a  variety  of  titles  in  America  and 
Great  Britain.  All  these  organizations  are  opposed  in  spirit  to  all  the 
restraints  of  law  and  order.  Now  let  me  call  your  attention  to  the  fact 
that  in  February,  1831,  Joseph  Smith  received  a  revelation  on  this  very 
subject,  which  no  doubt  many  of  you  are  familiar  with.  Reference  is 
also  made  along  the  same  lines  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  Secularism  and 
infidelity  are  sweeping  over  the  world ;  millions  are  indulging  in  every 
kind  of  iniquity.  Crime  is  increasing  with  such  rapidity  that  the  large 
cities  of  the  world  find  it  next  to  impossible  to  cope  with  it. 

I  know  that  it  is  easier  to  point  out  evils  than  the  particular  way  of 
destroying  them.  I  know  it  will  take  the  united  effort  of  honest,  patriotic, 
liberty  loving  citizens,  to  meet  the  situation.  The  churches  must  play 
an  important  part. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  has  never  ceased  its  opposition  to  or- 
ganizations such  as  I  have  mentioned  and  never  will. 

I  bear  witness  that  our  Heavenly  Father  has  again  established  his 
Church  on  earth  and  revealed  the  everlasting  Gospel  for  the  salvation  jpf 
all  who  believe  and  obey. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


21 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  sure  that  during  this  conference  the 
Spirit  of  the  living  God  will  be  made  manifest  to  those  who  speak  unto  us. 

NOT  NECESSARY  TO  VIOLATE  LAWS  OF  GOD 

I  want  particularly  to  call  your  attention  to  the  wonderful  remarks 
that  have  been  made  by  President  Grant  this  morning.  Oh,  if  we  only 
would  put  them  into  practice — I  mean  every  member  of  the  Church — 
what  a  wonderful  influence  we  would  have  as  a  people  in  the  different 
parts  of  this  country  and  in  the  world!  Our  very  lives  and  acts  would 
testify  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  its  results  in  the  lives  of  its 
membership.  I  never  lost  anything  in  this  world  by  obeying  the  laws 
of  God.  I  never  lost  anything  in  my  capacity  as  a  Senator  of  the  United 
States  by  not  indulging  in  the  habits  that  are  prohibited  by  my  Church. 
For  years  perhaps  those  among  whom  I  associated  thought  it  was  strange. 
I  have  never  taken  z.  drink  of  liquor  in  my  life.  I  have  never  smoked 
in  my  life.  I  have  never  found  it  necessary  that  I  should  do  so  at  any 
time  in  order  to  win  respect  and  the  favors  of  men  who  do  us'e  those 
things.  On  the  contrary,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  want  to  testify  to 
you  that  there  has  been  nothing  for  which  I  have  been  honored  and 
respected  more  than  my  devotion  to  the  beliefs  that  I  have.  I  may 
add,  religious  beliefs  and  moral  beliefs,  which  latter  are  a  very  important 
part  of  our  teachings  as  a  Church. 

I  do  not  think  there  is  any  honorable  calling  to  which  a  man  may 
be  called,  either  privately  or  publicly,  in  which,  in  order  to  be  successful, 
he  must  violate  the  laws  of  God.  There  is  no  necessity  for  it,  and  I  want 
to  say  to  you  that  whenever  people  who  know  that  the  laws  of  the  Church 
prohibit  certain  actions,  see  a  member  of  the  Church  violate  those  actions, 
instead  of  winning  the  respect  of  men  by  such  violation  he  loses  it. 

IN  ACCORDANCE  WITH  ONE'S  PROFESSED  FAITH 

Oh,  yes,  we  have  lots  of  men  and  some  women  in  the  Church  who 
smoke.  I  wish  that  every  one  of  them  could  have  heard  the  remarks 
of  the  President  this  morning.  We  as  members  of  the  Church  can 
testify  to  the  truth  of  his  remarks.  But  the  day  is  coming  when  the 
scientists,  when  the  men  standing  at  the  head  of  great  business  concerns, 
will  always  ask,  when  a  man  is  needed  to  fill  an  important  position,  how 
he  lives,  what  are  his  daily  habits,  what  does  he  believe  in,  and  does  he 
live  in  accordance  with  his  professed  faith.  When  that  time  comes,  and 
it  is  beginning  now,  I  will  be  glad  if  the  greater  percentage  of  the  people 
of  our  Church  live  the  commandments,  if  they  are  clean  and  virtuous 
in  their  lives.  This  is  almost  a  thing  of  the  past  in  some  sections  of 
the  world. 

But  as  the  last  days  approach,  I  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
it  is  going  to  come,  and  God  will  magnify  a  people  who  not  only  profess 
these  wonderful  truths  but  live  them.  God  grant  that  we  may  have  power 
to  do  so,  that  the  Church  as  a  church  will  never  be  called  upon  to 
apologize  for  men  or  women  known  as  the  leaders  and  members  of  the 
Church.  Peace  be  with  us.  May  God's  blessings  attend  us  during  the 
remainder  of  this  conference,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  hymn,  "Do  what  is  right,"  was  sung-  by  the  congregation. 
Elder  Mark  Austin  offered  the  closing  prayer. 
The  Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  second  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  at  2  o'clock,  when 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  announced  that  the  congregation  would  sing 
the  hymn,  "Guide  us,  O  thou  great  Jehovah." 

After  singing,  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph  S.  Peery. 

Following  the  opening  prayer  a  sacred  solo,  "My  Task,"  was  sung 
by  Elder  Golden  Hansen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  was  very  greatly  pleased  this  morning  in  listening  to  the  remarks 
by  our  President,  and  to  have  our  attention  called  to  matters  which  I 
consider  to  be  of  great  importance. 

I  think  I  have  stated  before  from  this  stand  that  we  are  living  in 
perilous  times,  times  when  the  members  of  the  Church  should  be  thought- 
ful, diligent,  persevering,  and  determined  to  keep  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord  as  they  have  been  made  known  unto  us  by  revelation. 

A  WONDERFUL  ADVANTAGE 

We  have  a  wonderful  advantage  over  the  world  in  this,  that  we 
have  the  right  and  privilege  of  receiving  instruction  through  inspiration 
and  revelation.  For  one  hundred  years  the  Lord  has  spoken  unto  this 
people,  giving  us  line  upon  line,  precept  upon  precept,  and  one  example 
following  another,  counsel,  advice  and  knowledge  in  abundance  con- 
cerning the  things  pertaining  to  our  salvation  and  the  kingdom  of  God. 

We  have  learned  through  revelation  and  through  the  guidance  that 
has  come  from  holy  men,  both  ancient  prophets  and  those  of  our  own 
day,  it  is  our  duty  to  live  in  accordance  with  law  which  governs  us  in  this 
life,  and  which  pertains  to  this  life,  just  as  well  as  to  be  governed  by 
laws  which  pertain  to  the  spiritual  life,  or  the  life  which  is  to  come. 
Temporal  salvation  is  just  as  important  in  its  sphere  as  spiritual  salvation 
is  in  its  sphere.  In  fact,  temporal  salvation  and  spiritual  salvation  are 
so  closely  united  that  they  cannot  be  separated.  There  is  no  dividing 
line. 

THE  PURPOSE  OF   MORTAL  LIFE 

We  have  been  placed  here  in  this  world  for  the  purpose  of  gaining 
experience,  also  for  the  purpose  of  proving  ourselves,  whether  or  not 
we  will  be  worthy,  before  the  Lord,  of  a  place  in  his  kingdom.  It  has 
been  made  known  unto  us  that  even  before  the  foundation  of  the  world 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


23 


a  council  was  held,  and  there  the  plan  of  salvation  was  made  known 
unto  the  spirits  of  men;  and  the  Son  of  God,  even  Jesus  Christ,  who 
gave  instructions  upon  that  occasion — and  perhaps  there  were  more 
occasions  than  one — stated  that  he  and  others  would  go  down  and  form 
a  world  upon  which  these  spirits  should  dwell,  the  object  being  to  prove 
them  herewith,  to  find  out  whether  they  would  be  obedient  in  all  things. 
There  the  plan  of  salvation  was  discussed,  and  the  promise  was  made 
that  those  who  were  obedient  in  that  first  estate  should  have  a  place  in 
this  second  estate  in  which  we  now  find  ourselves.  And  they  who  prove 
themselves  true  and  faithful  to  the  commandments,  the  guidance  and 
the  instruction  which  have  come  from  the  Lord  jn  this  present  estate, 
should  have  glory  added  upon  their  heads  forever. 

THE  LORD'S  PLAN 

Now,  we  know  that  it  is  the  plan  and  purpose  of  the  Lord  to  bring 
to  pass  the  immortality  and  the  eternal  life  of  all  men.  No  matter  whether 
they  believe  in  him  or  not,  no  matter  whether  they  are  rebellious,  or 
whether  they  receive  the  truth  and  walk  in  the  light,  all  who  have  the 
privilege  of  this  mortal  life  are  to  be  redeemed,  so  we  are  informed,  from 
death.  All  mortal  souls  are  to  receive  the  resurrection.  All  are  re- 
deemed from  Adam's  transgression,  as  we  are  pleased  to  call  it,  through 
the  mercy  of  Christ;  because  we  are  not  responsible  for  that  transgres- 
sion; we  do  not  have  to  pay  the  price.  Christ  came  and  paid  that 
price  and  redeemed  us  from  death,  from  what  is  generally  spoken  of 
as  original  sin;  but  on  conditions  of  our  repentance  and  obedience  to 
Gospel  law,  for  salvation  in  the  kingdom  of  God  comes  on  no  other 
terms.  If  we  are  obedient,  if  we  will  keep  the  commandments  that  are 
given,  walk  in  the  light  of  truth,  known  as  the  principles  of  the  Gospel, 
then  we  are  to  have  added  upon  our  heads  exaltation  and  glory  forever. 

OBEDIENCE  TO  TEMPORAL  AND  PHYSICAL  LAWS  REQUIRED 

But  in  this  life  we  are  subject  to  the  vicissitudes  of  mortal  life  ;  we 
are  subject  to  all  the  laws  which  govern  in  this  world.  We  speak  of  many 
of  these  laws  as  temporal  laws,  or  physical  laws.  Nevertheless,  it  is 
just  as  necessary  that  we  be  obedient  to  the  temporal  and  physical  laws, 
or  rather,  the  laws  which  govern  in  this  mortal  life,  as  it  is  for  us  to  be 
obedient  to  things  which  we  are  pleased  to  call  spiritual,  and  which  we 
look  upon  as  pertaining  to  that  life  which  is  to  come  after  the  resurrec- 
tion from  the  dead. 

One  of  the  great  objects  of  our  existence  here,  indeed  the  greatest, 
is  to  receive  these  bodies  or  tabernacles  of  flesh,  tabernacles  for  our 
individual  spirits.  Then,  of  course,  through  obedience  our  physical 
tabernacles  and  our  spirits,  unitedly  known  as  the  soul,  receive  a  fulness 
of  joy;  and  it  is  destined  that  the  obedient,  the  faithful,  shall  go  back 
into  the  presence  of  God,  there  to  become  sons  and  daughters,  receiving  a 
fulness  of  the  blessings  of  the  kingdom  of  God. 

ETERNAL  BLESSINGS  THROUGH  CLEAN  LIVING 

If  in  this  life  we  abuse  these  tabernacles  of  flesh,  if  we  treat  them 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


with  contempt,  if  we  permit  them  to  be  filled  with  all  manner  of  corrup- 
tion, then  we  are  destroying  that  physical  tabernacle  which  pertains  to 
the  spirit  and  which,  with  the  spirit  united,  constitutes  the  soul,  so  that 
we  as  individuals  cannot  receive  that  fulness  of  joy  which  is  promised 
to  the  sanctified. 

I  think  enough  of  my  body  to  want  to  keep  it  clean.  I  have  been 
so  trained.  My  comprehension  of  this  Gospel,  my  study,  all  that  pertains 
to  the  Gospel  as  I  have  learned  it,  teaches  me  that  it  is  my  duty  to  keep 
this  body  clean  and  unspotted  from  the  contamination  of  this  world. 
Now,  we  are  in  the  presence  of  temptation,  we  are  in  the  presence  of 
grievous  sin.  It  was  understood  in  the  beginning,  for  we  were  informed 
before  we  came  here,  that  we  would  be  confronted  with  all  these  earthly 
conditions,  and  be  subject  to  temptation ;  but  it  does  not  necessarily  follow 
that  because  temptation  is  before  us,  we  have  to  yield  to  it.  It  is  the 
overcoming  of  the  world,  the  overcoming  of  sin,  that  makes  us  strong, 
and  prepares  us  for  things  yet  to  come.  The  man  who  yields  to  every 
appetite  and  every  desire  of  the  flesh  cannot  receive  exaltation,  because 
he  does  not  prepare  himself  for  and  make  himself  worthy  of  it. 

SONS  AND  DAUGHTERS  OF  GOD 

This  life  is  a  school.  It  is  a  most  wonderful  school,  because  here 
we  receive  that  training  that  will  prepare  us  and  qualify  us,  through 
obedience  to  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  to  become  sons  and  daughters 
of  God,  to  dwell  in  his  presence,  to  receive  all  that  the  Father  has.  What 
a  glorious  thought  this  is !  Oh,  how  I  rejoice  to  know  that  the  Lord 
has  made  this  known  unto  us,  that  it  is  within  our  power  to  become  like 
him ! 

I  think  so  frequently  of  the  words  of  John,  a.s  they  are  recorded 
in  the  third  chapter  of  the  first  epistle  that  was  written  by  him,  and  which 
I  desire  to  read  to  you : 

"Behold,  what  manner  of  love  the  Father  hath  bestowed  upon  us,  that  we 
should  be  called  the  sons  of  God :  therefore  the  world  knoweth  us  not,  because 
it  knew  him  not. 

"Beloved,  now  are  we  the  sons  of  God,  and  it  doth  not  yet  appear  what  we 
shall  be :  but  we  know  that,  when  he  shall  appear,  we  shall  be  like  him ;  for  we 
shall  see  him  as  he  is." 

Now,  John  understood  clearly,  as  did  Peter  and  Paul  and  the 
others  of  the  apostles,  that  through  obedience  to  the  Gospel,  including 
all  the  ordinances  and  the  covenants  that  they  entered  into,  they  were 
even  then  the  sons  of  God,  because  of  those  covenants  and  obligations 
they  had  taken  upon  themselves.  So  John  says,  speaking  unto  the 
Saints — he  is  not  speaking  to  the  world : 

"■Now  are  we  the  sons  of  God,  and  it  doth  not  yet  appear  what  we 
shall  be:  but  we  know  that,  when  he  [Christ]  shall  appear,  we  shall  be 
like  him." 

That  is  we  shall  see  that  we  are  like  him,  also  sons  of  God  as  he  is 
a  Son  of  God,  with  this  difference,  of  course,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the 
Only  Begotten,  one  of  the  Godhead  whom  we  worship.    We  are  his 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  25 


brethren,  joint  heirs,  as  Paul  has  said,  with  him  in  that  kingdom.  That 
is  our  privilege. 

THE  LORD'S  DESIRE  CONCERNING  US 

John  continues: 

"And  every  man  that  hath  this  hope  in  him  purifieth  himself,  even  as  he 
[Christ}  is  pure." 

We  should  keep  ourselves  clean  and  pure  from  sin,  from  anything 
that  tends  to  destroy  the  functions  of  these  bodies,  these  tabernacles. 
The  Lord  intends  that  we  should  keep  them  holy,  sanctified,  cleansed 
from  all  iniquity.  We  cannot  do  that  if  we  partake  of  the  evils  that  we 
find  in  the  world.  No  man  who  uses  tobacco  can  keep  his  body  clean. 
No  man  can  keep  his  body  clean  when  he  puts  into  it  alcoholic  beverages. 
That  cannot  be  done.  The  Lord  has  pointed  out,  in  that  wonderful  reve- 
lation to  which  reference  has  been  made,  what  we  shall  eat  and  what  we 
shall  drink,  as  well  as  the  things  that  we  should  not  eat  and  drink.  He 
has  warned  us  and  told  us  what  things  are  not  good.  We  have  our 
agency.  Every  man  has  the  power  within  him  to  act  for  himself. 
No  man  is  compelled  to  do  the  will  of  God  and  enter  into  the  kingdom. 
He  may  reject  that;  but  every  man  is  going  to  answer  for  his  works. 
He  is  going  to  receive  a  reward  according  to  that  which  he  does  in  the 
flesh. 

I  say  again,  my  training  makes  me  feel  to  honor  this  tabernacle 
that  has  been  given  unto  me.  When  I  say  Me*  what  do  I  mean  ?  I  don't 
know  what  life  is.  I  could  not  give  you  a  proper  definition  of  it.  But 
I  know  that  there  is  an  individuality  which  I  call  myself.  You  each 
have  your  individuality.  That  individuality  is  composed  of  spirit  and 
body.  The  body  is  the  tabernacle  of  the  spirit.  Together  they  shall 
rise,  after  the  resurrection,  to  receive  that  fulness  of  joy  in  the  kingdom 
of  God,  provided  they  have  kept  this  estate  and  been  true  and  faithful 
to  all  the  commandments  of  God. 

DUTY  TO  SAFEGUARD  THE  YOUTH 

I  am  a  firm,  believer  in  this,  and  that  we  should  throw"  out  every 
safeguard  to  hedge  our  youth  about  and  protect  them  from  the  evils  of 
the  world.  I  do  not  think  it  is  necessary  for  them  to  come  in  contact 
with  sin.  There  is  temptation  enough,  there  is  sin  enough,  that  they 
will  find;  and  it  is  my  duty,  as  far  as  I  am  able. to  do*  it,  to  protect  my 
children  and  your  children.  I  want  them  protected.  For  that  reason 
I  am  absolutely  opposed  with  all  my  soul  to  the  repeal  of  the  Eighteenth 
Amendment.  I  know  what  it  means.  I  know  what  the  conditions  were 
before  we  had  prohibition.  I  think  I  know  what  the  conditions  will 
be  after  it  is  repealed,  if  that  shall  come. 

Latter-day  Saints,  from  one  end  of  the  earth  to  the  other,  especially 
the  good  people  living  in  these  states  of  this  Rocky  Mountain  region, 
we  should  stand  for  that  which  is  right,  for  the  truth,  for  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  f  or  the  protection  which  we  are  entitled  to  receive ;  and 
therefore  we  should  stand  unitedly  against  these  evils  that  are  creeping 
in  among  us  from  the  world.  The  world  is  full  of  evil. 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


STAND   IN    HOLY  PLACES 

So  I  pray.  May  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  guide  us,  protect  us,  keep 
us  free  from  these  contaminating  influences  and  evils  after  which  the 
world  seeks.  We  should  not  seek  for  them.  It  is  our  duty  to  stand  in 
holy  places,  as  the  Lord  has  commanded  us,  and  be  not  moved.  I  want 
to  say  to  you  that  day  is  not  far  distant,  as  I  have  read  here,  when  the 
Son  of  Man  shall  come  in  a  cloud  of  glory,  to  reward  men  according 
to  their  works.  He  shall  come  in  a  day  of  wickedness,  of  corruption, 
to  take  vengeance  upon  the  ungodly,  and  to  reward  the  righteous. 
Therefore,  it  behooves  us,  as  I  say,  to  stand  in  holy  places  and  be  not 
moved.  May  we  do  it,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

I  humbly  pray  that  the  Lord  will  condescend  to  bless  me  in  the  few 
remarks  that  I  shall  make. 

With  all  of  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in  the  presence  and 
instructions  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant.  We  thank  the  Father  for 
President  Grant's  recovery  from  his  illness.  With  all  my  heart  and  soul 
I  sustain  all  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  and  I  feel  that 
the  will  of  God  has  been  manifested,  to  the  spiritual  benefit  of  the  people, 
in  the  selection  of  these  two  splendid  brethren,  J.  Reuben  Clark  and 
Samuel  O.  Bennion,  for  the  offices  to  which  they  have  been  appointed 
and  sustained. 

In  the  old  Jewish  Talmud  there  is  a  story  of  Elijah  and  a  certain 
rabbi  who  went  upon  a  journey  and  stopped  at  the  house  of  a  poor  man 
whose  only  possessions  were  a  wife  and  a  cow.  The  good  people  made 
the  strangers  as  comfortable  as  possible.  However,  the  next  morning 
the  cow  died.  *  *  *  The  rabbi  was  puzzled  and  asked  Elijah  to  explain. 
Elijah  said :  "In  regard  to  the  poor  man  who  received  us  so  hospitably, 
it  was  decreed  that  his  wife  was  to  die  that  night,  but,  in  reward  for  his 
kindness  God  took  the  cow  instead  of  the  wife.  *  *  *  Say  not,  therefore, 
to  the  Lord,  what  doest  thou,  but  say  in  thine  heart.  Must  not  the  Lord 
of  all  the  earth  do  right?" 

I  believe,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  depression,  in  the  presence 
of  which  men  stand  confused  and  dazed,  may  be  a  blessing  in  disguise. 
I  believe  that  in  this  national  and  world-wide  disaster  there  is  good 
that  is  striving  for  deliverance  and  triumph.  It  may  be  that  we  shall  learn 
the  lessons  of  adversity  and  emerge  from  this  cloud  better  men  and  wom- 
en. The  horrors  of  another  world  war  have  probably  been  averted 
by  this  depression.    God  doeth  all  things  for  the  best. 

There  never  was  a  time  in  the  history  of  the  Church  when  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  were  required  to  be  more  valiant  in  preaching  and  living 
the  Gospel  than  they  are  today. 

An  atheist  once  said  that  he  and  his  associates  hoped  to  overthrow 
Christianity  by  pulling  down  the  family  altars  of  prayer.  If  our  national 
Congress  and  state  legislatures  were  to  discontinue  the  age-honored  cus- 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


27 


torn  of  invoking  the  blessings  of  God  upon  their  deliberations  there  are 
many  prayerless  parents  in  the  country  who  would  rebuke  these  legis- 
lative bodies,  for  even  people  who  cling  to  a  form  of  religion  appreciate 
the  value  of  prayer.  In  a  home  without  prayer  the  seeds  of  infidelity 
are  being  sown.  But  in  a  home  where  there  is  prayer,  where  the  family 
reverently  gathers  around  the  altar  of  prayer,  faith  increases,  love  for 
God  and  man  mounts  high  in  the  human  heart.  We  are  learning  that 
■  in  this  great  catastrophe,  without  God  we  are  nothing. 

I  believe  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  It  is  the  word  of  God.  We  are 
warned  in  this  sacred  record  that  the  promise  of  a  high  destiny  for  any 
nation  will  not  save  it  if  a  nation  forgets  God.  Proud  confidence  in 
their  destiny  did  not  save  nations  in  the  past  from  self-destruction.  We 
may  boast  in  our  pride  and  glory  of  the  magnificent  mission  of  our  own 
republic,  but  unless  the  love  of  Jesus  Christ  is  invoked  in  all  of  our 
dealings,  unless  the  spirit  of  Christ  reigns  uppermost  in  our  hearts  and 
permeates  our  actions,  these  promises  for  a  glorious  destiny,  so  far  as 
we  are  concerned,  will  fail,  as  they  have  failed  with  nations  in  the  past. 

Nations  cannot  survive  where  the  family  altar  of  prayer  is  thrown 
down.  No  people  can  prosper  long  materially  who  do  not  acknowledge 
and  believe  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  God  of  the  whole  earth. 

Moroni,  in  the  early  part  of  the  fifth  century,  gave  this  solemn 
warning  to  the  people  living  in  these  days : 

"And  this  cometh  unto  you,  O  ye  Gentiles,  that  ye  may  know  the  decrees  of 
God — that  ye  may  repent,  and  not  continue  in  your  iniquities  until  the  fulness 
come,  that  ye  may  not  bring  down  the  fulness  of  the  wrath  of  God  upon  yiou  as 
the  inhabitants  of  the  land  have  hitherto  done."    (Ether  2:11.) 

In  God  alone  is  our  hope.  "He  cannot  look  upon  sin  with  the  least 
degree  of  allowance." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  testify  unto  you  that  from  the  bottom  of  my 
heart  I  know  the  Gospel  is  true ;  I  know  that  Jesus  is  my  Savior,  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God.  I  also  know,  by  the  same  power — 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost — that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  choice  prophet,  a 
seer  and  a  revelator,  a  man  whom  God  raised  up  to  accomplish  a  mighty 
work.  I  have  seen  the  manifestation  of  God's  power  upon  President 
Grant.  We  have  seen  this  power  manifested  in  the  ministry  of  all  the 
prophets  of  God  in  this,  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times. 

God  bless  us  with  purity  of  heart  and  singleness  of  purpose,,  and 
fortify  us  by  the  faith  which  he  has  delivered  to  us  through  his  prophets, 
I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  am  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  with  you  this 
afternoon  and  in  conference  this  morning.  It  was  my  good  fortune 
and  privilege,  years  ago,  to  be  a  student  in  a  class  under  our  new 
president.  I  have  known  him  from  that  time  to  the  present  day, 
and  as  one  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  I  sustain  him  and  them 
with  all  my  heart. 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Referring  to  the  remarks  of  President  Grant  this  morning — 
and  I  have  heard  him  speak  in  a  similar  manner  many  times,  and 
have  gone  from  meetings  and  have  heard  my  brethren  make  light 
of  his  advice  and  his  counsel/ — I  want  to  say  now,  in  all  sincerity, 
that  I  believe  the  Word  of  Wisdom  was  revealed  to  Joseph  Smith, 
I  know  God  will  not  be  mocked,  and  if  we  disregard  this  advice 
and  make  light  of  it,  we  shall  see  the  day  when  we  shall  pay  the 
price  which  will  fall  upon  us  as  a  severe  rebuke  that  cannot  be 
disregarded. 

For  twenty-five  years  I  have  been  engaged  in  hospital  work, 
nearly  seven  years  as  superintendent  of  a  hospital.  During  that 
time  I  have  had  what  I  think  to  be  an  excellent  opportunity  to  put 
the  Word  of  Wisdom  to  the  test,  comparing  its  teachings  with  the 
physical  and  spiritual  conditions  of  those  who  are  compelled  to 
go  into  these  institutions  for  treatment.  It  is  a  well  known  fact 
that  poisoned  bodies,  made  so  through  disobedience  to  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  are  weakened  and  have  less  resistance  against  disease. 
Scientific  discoveries  being  constantly  made  are  added  testimonies 
to  the  truthfulness  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  One  instruction  given 
by  the  government  to  its  soldiers  is:  "Men  should  not  smoke  while 
on  the  march.  Smokers  are  more  apt  to  be  sick  and  fall  out  than 
non-smokers."  It  is  hard  to  get  individuals  to  observe  this  advice. 
It  has  been  given  to  the  army  because  scientific  discoveries  and 
experience  make  such  advice  seem  important. 

I  desire  to  call  attention  to  another  thought  in  relation  to  the 
Word  of  Wisdom.  We  seem  timid  about  referring  to  the  statement 
of  the  Lord  that  "they  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel,"  and  some- 
times we  are  shocked  or  seem  to  think  it  to  be  immodest.  I  am 
at  a  loss  to  know  why,  for  the  navel  is  a  scar  on  the  body  having 
served  its  purpose  when  we  came  into  the  world  and  after  birth 
ceases  to  function.  The  Savior's  sermons  were  largely  given  as 
parables.  The  revelations  given  to  Joseph  Smith  were  brief  and 
to  the  point.  The  definition  of  navel  as  given  in  the  dictionary  is 
"the  central  point  or  part  of  anything;  the  middle."  The  Lord 
could  have  mentioned  the  vital  organs  of  the  body,  which  would 
require  the  enumeration  of  each.  How  much  simpler  to  use  the 
expression  given. 

How  fully  do  we  grasp  the  meaning  of  the  promise  that  we 
shall  have  marrow  to  the  bones?  We  learn  that  marrow  to  the 
bone  is  as  a  hub  to  a  wheel  where  the  spokes  center ;  it  is  the 
inner  meaning  and'purPose;  the  inner  substance;  the  essence;  the 
essential  strength.  "The  so-called  spinal  marrow  or  spinal  cord  is 
the  central  axis  of  the  nervous  system."  The  fact  that  Joseph 
Smith  in  his  27th  year,  with  no  college  education,  could  make  such 
statements  as  found  in  this  revelation,  which  100  years  later  are 
supported  by  the  findings  of  scientists,  at  least  suggests  that  we 
must  look  for  some  power  other  than  that  discovered  through  his 
own  knowledge.  He  took  no  credit  to  himself  and  acknowledged 
that  he  was  only  a  humble  instrument  used  by  our  Heavenly  Father 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


29 


to  give  this  warning  to  his  children,  to  help  them  preserve  their 
inheritance,  the  greatest  possession  of  which  is  these  temples,  the 
dwelling  place  of  our  spirit,  which  body  and  spirit  together  consti- 
tute the  soul  of  man.  Have  we  the  right  to  accuse  anyone  of  being- 
narrow  minded  or  selfish  when  he  calls  our  attention  to  these  things. 
Is  it  not  really  an  evidence  of  his  love  for  us  and  concern  for  our 
welfare  ? 

Recently  a  young  man  came  into  the  Presiding  Bishop's  Office 
to  see  me.  He  said:  "Brother  Smith,  I  had  a  dream.  In  the 
dream  I  was  told  to  come  to  you.  I  have  suffered  from  stomach 
trouble.  I  was  given  to  understand  that  you  could  help  me,  if  I 
should  come  to  you." 

I  told  him  to  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  to  stop  using  coffee, 

etc. 

He  looked  somewhat  startled.  I  didn't  know  that  he  was  a  user 
of  coffee,  but  I  was  impressed  to  make  the  statement. 

"Brother  Smith,"  he  answered,  "I  think  I  can  do  that." 

Then  I  talked  to  him  about  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  asked 
him  to  make  a  test  for  a  week  or  two  and  come  back. 

Sometimes,  it  seems  to  me,  we  plead  with  the  Lord  for  blessings 
when  at  the  time  we  are  doing  things  which  make  it  difficult  for 
him  to  give  us  the  blessings  for  which  we  plead.  To  me  it  is  a 
mockery.  Under  such  conditions  we  cannot  approach  him  in  faith 
for  we  are  not  worthy  to  enjoy  that  privilege. 

I  wonder  if,  in  these  days  of  depression,  we  take  time  to  review 
the  history  from  the  beginning  of  this  Church  and  ponder  over  the 
problems  of  its  founders.  Our  problems  are  insignificant  when 
compared  to  theirs.  Looking  back  as  we  may  do  today  we  can 
see  the  hand  of  the  Lord  in  the  movements  westward.  Persecu- 
tions and  hardships  united  them  and  developed  in  them  faith  in 
God,  tolerance  and  love  for  their  fellows.  Little  did  they  dream  in 
the  beginning  that  they  were  destined  to  move  on  and  on  until 
they  should  establish  headquarters  in  the  "top  of  the  mountains." 
Their  enemies  forced  them  to  do  so  and  the  hardships  which  fol- 
lowed developed  God-fearing  men  and  women  of  sterling  worth. 
The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  was  upon  them  and  traveled  before  them. 
They  were  not  afraid  and  did  not  permit  themselves  to  become 
discouraged.    Their  battle  cry  was : 

Come,  come  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  labor  fear, 

But  with  joy  wend  your  way; 

Tho'  hard  to  you  this  journey  may  appear, 

Grace  shall  be  as  your  day.  *  *  * 

Why  should  we  think  to  earn  a  great  reward, 

If  we  now  shun  the  fight? 

Gird  up  your  loins,  fresh  courage  take, 

Our  God  will  never  us  forsake. 

They  were  our  fathers  and  our  mothers.  Do  we  forget  that 
they  were  the  chosen  of  the  Lord  to  prepare  the  way  for  those 
who  should  follow?  It  was  their  mission  to  fulfil  the  prophecy 
of  Isaiah  2  :2-3  : 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  the  last  days,  that  the  mountain  of  the  Lord's 
house  shall  be  established  in  the  top  of  the  mountains,  and  shall  be  exalted  above 
the  hills ;  and  all  nations  shall  flow  unto  it. 

"And  many  people  shall  go  and  say,  Come  ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain 
of  the  Lord,  to  the  house  of  the  God  of  Jacob;  and  he  will  teach  us  of  his  ways, 
and  we  will  walk  in  his  paths :  for  out  of  Zion  shall  go  forth  the  law,  and  the  word 
of  the  Lord  from  Jerusalem." 

The  Prophet  Ezekiel  gave  us  a  picture  which  should  encourage 

us : 

"Thus  saith  the  Lord  God ;  I  will  also  take  of  the  highest  branch  of  the 
high  cedar,  and  will  set  it ;  I  will  crop  off  from  the  top  of  his  young  twigs  a  tender 
one,  and  will  plant  it  upon  an  high  mountain  and  eminent : 

"In  the  mountain  of  the  height  of  Israel  will  1  plant  it :  and  it  shall  bring 
forth  boughs,  and  bear  fruit,  and  be  a  goodly  cedar :  and  under  it  shall  dwell 
all  fowl  of  every  wing;  in  the  shadow  of  the  branches  thereof  shall  they  dwell. 

"And  all  the  trees  of  the  field  shall  know  that  I  the  Lord  have  brought  down 
the  high  tree,  have  exalted  the  low  tree,  have  dried  up  the  green  tree,  and  have 
made  the  dry  tree  to  flourish  :  I  fhe  Lord  have  spoken  and  have  done  it."  (Ezekiel 
17:22-24.) 

And  I  repeat,  "the  Lord  has  spoken  and  has  done  it." 

We  are  of  that  stock.  Have  we  forgotten  their  suffering? 
Are  we  willing  to  take  upon  us  the  burden?  Do  we  quit  when 
trials  come  upon  us?  Or  are  we  willing,  as  they  were  willing,  to 
face  the  wilderness,  full  of  faith,  determined  that  we  shall  do  our 
part,  in  order  that  we  may  receive  and  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord?  That  is  our  mission,  but  how  well  are  we  taking  our  part? 

During  the  last  four  years  we  have  increased  the  activity  of 
our  young  men  to  a  point  where  the  low  point  of  activity  at  the 
close  of  1932  is  almost  on  a  level  with  the  high  point  four  years  ago. 
And  yet  in  many  places  we  are  lagging.  There  is  much  we  can 
do  which  is  left  undone.  While  we  are  looking  after  our  young 
men  who  hold  the  Aaronic  priesthood,  what  of  their  brothers  and 
their  fathers  who  have  gone  beyond  the  age  in  which  the}'  are 
expected  to  serve  in  the  Aaronic  priesthood?  It  seems  that  we  are 
leaving  them  too  much  alone  and  are  doing  very  little  for  them. 

Now  is  the  time,  it  seems  to  me,  in  which  men  who  hold  the 
priesthood  should  have  faith.  They  should  feel  that  service  in  this 
church  is  required  of  all ;  if  we  hope  to  develop  spiritually,  now 
is  the  time  in  which  we  should  take  advantage  of  the  leisure  time 
we  have,  through  unemployment  or  other  causes,  and  give  not 
only  our  substance  but  our  faith  and  our  love  to  those  who  are 
careless  and  indifferent,  those  who  are  drifting  away  and  to  whom 
the  Gospel  must  be  preached  again. 

Now,  I  realize  that  I  am  not  expected  to  speak  long.  Let  me 
picture  a  little  incident  to  you,  if  I  can< — one  of  the  many  I  have 
seen.  Let  me  take  you  back  some  years.  We  enter  a  little  home, 
two  rooms.  We  find  three  little  girls,  ragged  and  dirty,  and  with 
bare  feet;  a  mother  poorly  clothed ;  no  comforts  in  the  home; 
and  in  the  corner  the  husband  and  father  in  a  drunken  stupor,  an 
Elder  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  a  man 'who  had  been  ordained 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


31 


to  the  priesthood  and  sealed  in  the  house  of  the  Lord  to  his  wife 
for  time  and  all  eternity.  Bad  company  caused  him  to  forget  his 
covenants.  Liquor  took  away  from  him  his  reason,  from  his  chil- 
dren their  food  and  clothing,  and  from  his  wife  and  children  the 
comforts  of  home.  Then  visit  with  me  in  that  home,  not  three 
months  later  but  next  week,  and  the  next  week,  and  every  week 
for  nearly  a  year;  and  little  by  little  partake  of  his  joy  as  he  finds 
someone  to  help  him  overcome  his  weakness ;  then,  finally,  as  he  is 
persuaded  to  kneel  in  prayer,  feels  the  spirit  which  comes,  for 
God  is  with  vis  when  we  sincerely  pray.  We  feel  the  added  joy 
when  finally  we  hear  him  admit  that  he  hasn't  the  power  over  that 
damnable  influence  which  had  caused  his  disgrace  and  almost 
ruined  his  home.  He  pleads  for  someone  to  call  on  his  employer 
and  get  his  check  on  pay-day,  pay  his  bills,  make  his  purchases. 
And  later  we  see  him  enter  the  quorum  meeting,  with  the  under- 
standing that  he  will  not  be  called  upon  to  take  part  until  he  sig- 
nifies willingness  to  do  sq.  After  a  while  we  hear  him  say :  "I 
believe  I  can  now  take  part,"  and  we  note  the  concern  that  comes 
when  in  his  first  attempt  he  apparently  makes  a  miserable  failure. 
But  prayer,  love  and  kindness  have  touched  his  soul,  the  Spirit  of 
God  is  upon  him,  for  realizing  he  has  made  a  failure  he  turns  to  say : 
''I  am  not  satisfied.  I  want  to  try  again."  We  realize  that  he  has 
won.  He  continues  to  grow  in  faith  and  becomes  active,  and  master 
of  himself  again. 

I  had  not  seen  this  man  for  nearly  thirty  years  when,  one 
evening  while  attending  a  meeting  in  the  ward  in  which  he  lived 
recently,  at  the  close  of  the  service  an  elderly  gentleman  with  white 
hair,  round  face,  bright,  flashing  eyes,  reached  out  his  hand  and 
I  took  hold  of  it,  hardly  recognizing  him.  He  placed  his  free  arm 
around 'me  and  said:    "Brother  Smith,  I  love  you." 

It  seems  to  me  that  there  are  but  few  things  in  life  that  could 
bring  greater  joy  than  to  have  such  an  experience.  It  helps  us 
to  understand  this  statement  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith : 

"Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of  God ; 

"For,  behold,  the  Lord  your  Redeemer  suffered  death  in  the  flesh ;  wherefore 
he  suffered  the  pain  of  all  men,  that  all  men  might  repent  and  come  unto  him. 

"And  he  hath  risen  again  from  the  dead,  that  he  might  bring  all  men  unto 
him,  on  conditions  of  repentance. 

"And  how  great  is  his  joy  in  the  soul  that  repenteth ! 

"Wherefore,  you  are  called  to  cry  repentance  unto  this  people. 

"And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your  days  in  crying  repentance 
unto  this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto  me,  how  great  shall  be  your 
joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father! 

"And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great  with  one  soul  that  you  have  brought 
unto  me  into  the  kingdom  of  my  Father,  how  great  will  be  your  joy  if  you  should 
bring  many  souls  unto  me!" 

Brethren,  sisters;  this  is  our  work.  We  cannot  save  those 
who  are  indifferent  and  careless  by  preaching  to  them.  We  must 
go  into  their  homes.  We  must  bow  with  them  before  the  Lord, 
and  plead  with  him  for  their  welfare.    We  must,  in  the  spirit  of 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


love,  help  them  to  see  the  need  of  obedience  and  service,  for  with- 
out serving  we  cannot  develop  and  keep  alive  the  spirit  which  God 
has  promised  to  those  who  have  entered  the  waters  of  baptism  and 
keep  his  commandments.  To  me,  the  greatest  privilege  in  life  is 
the  opportunity  to  serve  in  authority  of  the  priesthood.  What 
would  become  of  me  if  it  were  not  for  you,  my  brethren,  and  the 
encouragement  you  give.  I  find  we  are  all  very  much  alike,  and 
need  to  help  each  other.  We  should  go  out  on  the  highway  and 
the  byway,  so- to  speak,  and  find  those  who  are  careless  and  in- 
different, and  labor  with  them,  not  by  one  visit,  but  day  by  day, 
in  a  spirit  of  love  and  friendship.  Men  will  not  listen  if  we  criticize, 
for  criticism  seems  to  bring  forth  a  vigorous  defense.  But  love 
and  prayer,  offered  in  the  spirit  of  humility,  will  touch  the  heart 
and  mellow  the  soul  and  eventually  bring  joy  and  happiness  and 
eternal  salvation.  It  is  within  our  power.  ■  It  is  our  right.  God 
has  given  us  that  mission.  May  he  grant  that  we  shall  not  fail, 
I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ELIAS  S.  WOODRUFF 

President  of  the  Western  States  Mission 

I  have  but  one  desire  in  my  heart  at  this  moment; — that  I  may  find 
favor  with  my  Heavenly  Father  and  be  enabled  to  discharge  this  duty 
acceptably  before  him,  and  for  your  and  my  blessing. 

The  Saints  residing  in  the  Western  States  Mission,  like  you  at 
home,  are  beset  with  the  problems  of  how  to  live  and  meet  the  present 
conditions  of  life.  Many  of  them  are  unemployed  and  are  living  almost 
alone  on  hope.  Many  of  them  are  employed.  Those  who  live  in  the 
country  regions,  following  agricultural  pursuits,  are  reasonably  com- 
fortable and  happy.  .  The  rest  of  them  are  hoping  for  relief  from  present 
conditions,  but  they  are  enjoying  their  worship,  and  I  believe  our  meet- 
ings have  never  been  better  attended  than  they  are  at  the  present  time. 
We  try  to  find  comfort  in  the  thought  that  has  been  expressed  here 
today,  that  all  things  are  for  our  good. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  think  if  we  will  ask 
ourselves  the  question  :  What  is  a  blessing?  that  we  will  get  some  comfort 
out  of  the  answer.  I  remember  that  once,  while  I  was  teaching  a  class  of 
boys  in  the  Forest  Dale  Ward,  the  question  was  asked.  I  asked  them  this 
question  in  return:  Of  all  of  Jacob's  sons  which  was  the  most  blessed? 
And  the  answer  came  back  very  promptly — Joseph.  Yet  Joseph  was 
a  slave  in  a  foreign  land.  He  was  incarcerated  in  a  dark  prison.  He 
was  without  friends  or  kinsfolk,  while  his  brethren  were  at  home  enjoying 
the  blessings  of  the  land.  They  had  plenty  to  eat  and  to  spare.  They 
had  their  houses  and  their  farms,  their  lands  and  their  possessions.  But 
Joseph  was  in  favor  with  God.  His  spirit  was  in  tune  with  the  Holy 
Ghost.  He  had  the  companionship  of  that  marvelous  influence,  and  he 
was  by  far  the  most  blessed. 

The  Lord  tells  us  in  the  thirty-ninth,  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  that  his  commandments  are  spiritual ;  that  he  never  has 


ELDER  ELI  AS  S.  WOODRUFF 


33 


given  a  temporal  commandment  to  any  one,  riot  even  to  Adam,  our 
father.  Therefore  I  conclude  that  if  we  can  live  so  that  we  can  be  in 
harmony  with  our  Heavenly  Father,  no  matter  what  we  may  be  called 
to  pass  through,  or  how  difficult  our  trials  may  seem  to  be,  we  are  a 
blessed  people.  If  the  Latter-day  Saints  measure  themselves  by  that 
yard-stick,  we  have,  I  trust,  little  to  complain  about  and  much  to  give 
us  joy  and  satisfaction. 

I  rejoice  that  it  has  been  my  privilege  to  be  associated  with  the  men 
and  women  of  this  Church,  both  at  home  and  in  the  mission  field,  and 
that  they  have  influenced  my  life.  In  enjoying  their  companionship 
I  have  been  brought  into  a  nearer  communion  with  my  Heavenly  Father. 
I  rejoice  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  strives  with  me,  that  the  Lord  is 
patient  and  kind  to  me,  that  he  seems  to  overlook  my  weaknesses  and 
to  bless  me  in  time  of  need,  and  I  esteem  that  a  great  blessing.  So  I 
count  my  blessings,  I  rejoice  and  am  happy.  I  have  many  things  to 
rejoice  for. 

I  am  deeply  grateful  for  the  experience  that  I  am  having  and  have 
had  in  my  life.  I  am  grateful  for  the  confidence  of  the  Saints  with 
whom  I  associate  and  labor,  and  of  my  brethren  and  sisters  in  the  ministry 
in  that  mission.  I  am  grateful  for  the  confidence  and  love  of  my  brethren 
who  preside  over  me,  and  for  every  blessing  that  I  enjoy.  Brethren  and 
sisters,  let  us  count  our  blessings,  and  let  us  esteem  them  at  their  true 
value,  and  if  we  do  we  are  a  happy  people.  That  we  may  do  that  is  my 
most  humble  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  V.  BLUTH 

President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

I  bring  you  greetings,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  from  the  Saints  and 
the  missionaries  in  the  Canadian  Mission.  We  have  a  small  force,  but 
they  are  diligent  and  faithful.  They  love  their  work;  they  are  glad  to 
be  engaged  in  the  service  of  the  Lord  and  to  give  of  the  talents  he  has 
given  them,  unto  the  blessing  and  the  benefit  of  the  people  among  whom 
they  labor.  The  fathers  and  mothers  of  those  sons  and  daughters  need 
not  worry  over  their  children.  They  are  doing  a  good  work.  They  are 
measuring  up  to  the  labors  and  responsibilities  assigned  unto  them. 

I  deem  it  a  wonderful  privilege  for  the  presidents  of  the  missions 
in  the  United  States,  Canada  and  Mexico,  to  be  permitted  to  come  and 
enjoy  these  conferences  every  six  months,  a  privilege  that  because  of 
distance  is  denied  to  the  presidents  of  other  missions.  We  here  receive 
joy,  happiness,  strength  and  vitality  in  the  continuation  of  our  work, 
and  we  can  to  some  extent  imbue  our  brethren  and  sisters  in  the  mission 
field  with  that  same  spirit.   I  rejoice  in  it. 

I  have  been  happy  to  listen  to  the  things  said  here  this  morning  and 
this  afternoon  upon  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  the  necessity  of  keeping 
our  bodies  clean,  they  being  the  temples  of  God.  We  should  not  abuse 
them;  we  should  have  sound  bodies  for  the  development  of  the  spirits 
t-hat  are  within  them,  for  their  growth  and  development.  Some  say  that 
our  weaknesses  are  such  we  cannot  refrain  from  yielding  to  these  things. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


That  reminds  me  of  a  brother  in  New  Brunswick  who  does  not  hesitate 
to  say,  when  any  one  says  he  cannot  quit  tobacco,  that  it  is  simply  because 
he  does  not  want  to.  "I  was,"  he  said,  "the  most  inveterate  user  of 
tobacco.  I  cannot  conceive  how  anybody  could  be  more' so  than  I  was. 
I  smelled  it;  I  smoked  it;  I  chewed  it;  I  even  ate  it.  Not  a  moment 
of  the  time,  except  at  meal  times,  did  I  deem  I  could  do  without  it.  I 
heard  of  the  Gospel  preached  by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  of  their  Word 
of  Wisdom.  It  caused  me  to  wonder.  I  asked  a  physician  to  test  my 
blood.  He  took  a  portion  of  it,  and  sent  it  to  an  institute  where  there 
was  an  eminent  surgeon  who  analyzed  it.  When  he  got  the  analysis 
or  report  back  the  question  was  asked  :  'How  long  since  this  man  died  ?'  " 
The  chemist  did  not  think  it  possible  that  any  one  so  saturated  with 
tobacco  as  that  blood  test  showed  him  to  be  could  possibly  live.  When 
he  accepted  the  Gospel  he  quit,  and  he  has  for  many  years  since  that 
time  been  without  its  use,  and  he  declares  it  has  given  him  no  discomfort 
to  leave  it  alone.  He  had  the  will  to  quit  it.  The  very  query  as  to  his 
death  brought  that  determination  to  him.  For  that  reason  he  feels  that 
all  that  is  necessary  is  the  desire  to  quit.  But  when  our  longings  for  it 
are  greater  than  our  desire  to  serve  God,  then  of  course  it  is  difficult. 

It  would  seem  to  me  that  the  very  words  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
in  the  revelation  read  to  us  this  morning,  and  spoken  upon  this  afternoon, 
leave  us  in  a  peculiar  position  if  we  cannot  live  up  to  them.  The  counsel 
therein  given  is  "adapted  to  the  capacity  of  the  weak  and  the  weakest  of  all 
saints  who  are  or  can  be  called  saints."  When  we  cannot  observe  the 
Word  of  Wisdom  we  are  placed  in  this  position :  Either  we  are  weaker 
than  "the  weakest  of  all  saints,"  or  else  we  are  deliberately  sinning. 
"To  him  that  knoweth  to  do  good,"  says  James,  "and  doeth  it  not,  to  him 
it  is  sin."  And  our  Father  declares :  "I  the  Lord,  cannot  look  upon  sin 
with  the  least  degree  of  allowance."  If  we  can  get  to  understand  that,  I  do 
not  see  how  it  is  possible  for  any  one  with  any  faith  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  to  belittle  the  statements  made  relative  to  this  wonderful  revela- 
tion, given  unto  us  for  our  temporal  salvation. 

I  would  like  to  say  a  word  bearing  upon  this  and  some  other  things, 
relative  to  our  folks  at  home.  I  cannot  help  but  appreciate  the  wonderful 
sacrifice  that  fathers,  mothers,  sisters  and  brothers,  even  young  children, 
indicate  they  are  willing  to  make,  in  order  to  keep  the  father,  the 
husband,  the  brother,  the  son,  in  the  mission  field  the  full  time.  I  marvel 
a$,  the  efforts  they  make,  the  things  they  endure,  and  the  sacrifices  they 
make  in  order  to  accomplish  it.  When  the  shortage  of  missionaries  brings 
the.  request :  "Can  we  keep  your  son,  your  daughter,  two  or  three  or  four 
months  longer?"  how  they  strive  to  comply  with  it,  how  they  dislike  to 
say  that  they  cannot. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  you  can  preach  the  Gospel  at  home 
by  the  lives  that  you  lead  more  fully  than  they  can  by  word  of  mouth. 
You  are  sacrificing  these  things  for  them,  why  not  get  your  money's 
worth  out  of  it  ?  This  is  what  I  tell  our  missionaries :  "You  know  what 
your  people  are  doing  for  you.  Give  them  their  money's  worth,  by  the 
loyalty,  the  faithfulness,  the  devotion  that  you  give  unto  the  work  of  the 
Lord."    So  also  at  home :  Get  your  money's  worth.    Why  vitiate  their 


ELDER  JOHN  V.  BLUTH 


35 


effort  and  nullify  it  by  such  conduct  at  home  that  people,  noticing  the 
way  you  act,  complain  that  you  do  not  live  what  you  preach  ? 

We  love  your  boys,  we  love  your  daughters,  who  are  out  in  the  field 
— neat,  tidy,  dignified,  soft-spoken,  living  lives  of  Christians.  Then  we 
find  that  sometimes  you  do  not  live  at  home  that  which  they  preach. 
Let  us  preach  by  our  lives  that  which  God  has  given  unto  us,  that  we 
may  bear  testimony  unto  the  world  that  the  Gospel  can  really  become 
the  power  of  God  unto  our  salvation,  if  we  will  abide  by  its  precepts. 
Then  we  will  grow  in  grace.  Love  for  God's  word  will  be  in  our  hearts. 
Love  and  devotion  for  his  work  will  constantly  be  with  us.  We  will 
serve  him.    We  will  win  our  own  reward  and  our  own  salvation. 

I  rejoice  in  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  My  wife  and  I 
have  never  been  happier  than  we  are  at  this  moment.  We  finished  a 
mission  tour  of  three  thousand  miles  just  before  I  came  here  to  confer- 
ence. We  have  joy  in  our  labors,  and  thank  God  for  the  privilege  of 
serving.  We  ask  his  blessing  upon  all  his  people,  those  who  are  engaged 
in  his  work,  that  the  work  may  prosper  throughout  the  world  and  grow 
to  be,  as  it  were,  an  ensign  unto  the  nations,  to  look  up  to,  an  example  Jo 
be  followed,  that  they  might  be  saved  temporally  and  spiritually,  and  I 
ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

"O  ye  mountains  high"  was  sung  by  the  congregation. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

A  MAGNIFICENT  GIFT 

A  few  weeks  ago  in  company  with  President  Grant,  I  had  the 
privilege  of  inspecting  a  very  beautiful  building.  The  architecture  was 
superb,  a  rare  combination  of  elegance  and  utility.  In  the  portal  were 
handsome  columns  of  Venetian  marble  and  massive  doors  of  real  bronze. 
The  main  corridor  boasted  portraits  of  the  old  masters  in  art  and  science 
done  in  Italian  mosaic.  The  building  housed  a  great  library  with  com- 
modious reading  rooms  and  studies  for  the  accommodation  of  students. 
It  was  said  to  have  cost  more  than  a  million  dollars.  It  was  the  gift 
of  a  rich  man. 

When  I  saw  inscribed  on  a  plaque  the  name  of  the  man  who  gave 
it,  rather  strange  thoughts  and  feelings  came  to  me  which  I  have  pon- 
dered a  good  deal  since.  The  name  of  the  donor  is  connected  with  one 
of  the  most  notorious  scandals  of  our  country  in  recent  years.  I  do  not 
attempt  to  pass  judgment  on  him.  My  knowledge  of  the  facts  is  not 
sufficient  for  that,  but  I  do  know  that  some  of  his  associates  served 
prison  terms  for  participation  in  the  transactions  that  are  reputed  to 
have  brought  fabulous  wealth  to  this  man.  . 

Here  are  some  of  the  thoughts  that  passed  through  my  mind  as  I 
contemplated  the  magnificent  gift  of  an  American  multi-millionaire  to  an 
institution  of  the  people.  Can  a  man  with  money  in  this  great  country 
of  ours  buy  immunity  for  wrong-doing?   Does  the  public  have  indul- 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


gences  for  sale,  if  the  price  is  sufficiently  large  ?  Are  we  concerned  with 
how  a  man  gets  his  money  or  merely  with  how  much  he  has  ?  Just  what 
are  the  standards  of  integrity  and  honesty  prevalent  among  us  today? 
These  and  related  questions  have  occupied  my  attention  considerably. 
I  propose  them  as  a  basis  for  some  remarks  here  today. 

MEN   MISTRUST  MEN 

The  President  of  the  United  States  in  a  recent  utterance  said  in 
substance  that  the  greatest  thing  we  have  to  fear  is  fear  itself.  I  think 
he  is  right.  What  gives  rise  to  fear  and  apprehension?  The  answer  is 
simple,  I  believe.  Lack  of  confidence.  And  why  lack  of  confidence? 
Again  the  answer  is  simple.  Men  mistrust  men.  I  do  not  believe  that 
people  generally  have  lost  faith  in  our  fundamental  institutions.  The 
Constitution  of  the  nation  is  a  sacred  and  revered  document  to  the  over- 
whelming majority  of  Americans.  We  take  immeasurable  pride  in  the 
concepts  of  liberty,  equity  and  justice  which  it  breathes  and  protects. 
While  there  have  arisen  outspoken  opponents  of  the  capitalistic  system 
under  which  we  administer  our  economic  order,  yet  there  is  certainly  no 
such  wide-spread  and  organized  public  opinion  against  it  as  to  seriously 
endanger  its  continuance.  People  are  desirous  that  it  should  be  regulated 
but  not  abandoned. 

Ignorance,  of  course,  is  a  real  source  of  fear  but  I  am  convinced 
that  with  increased  facilities  for  the  dissemination  of  knowledge  this 
factor  is  being  perceptibly  diminished. 

So  I  am  forced  to  the  conclusion  that  in  the  final  analysis  the  one 
chief  item  which  has  basically  contributed  to  our  present  deplorable 
state  and  continues  to  retard  recovery  is  distrust  in  the  dependability, 
integrity  and  honesty  of  men.  After  all  constitutions,  laws  and  insti- 
tutions are  but  vehicles  for  the  expression  of  character  in  the  men  and 
women  of  any  state  or  society.  Incorporeal  rights  may  be  important 
but  their  administrators  are  infinitely  more  tangible.  We  may  argue 
about  principle,  but  it  is  a  man  who  takes  our  money  or  puts  us  in  jail. 
It  becomes  important  to  bring  out  into  the  open  some  of  the  causes  and 
conditions  which  have  contributed  to  a  state  of  public  distrust  and,  re- 
grettable as  it  may  seem,  a  dearth  of  common  honesty. 

MODERN  BUSINESS  METHODS 

In  this  connection  I  feel  sure  that  the  methods  of  modern  business 
have  played  a  very  conspicuous  part.  In  many  jurisdictions  where 
horse-racing,  dog-racing,  lotteries  and  slot  machines  have  been  penalized 
by  law,  business  gambling  has  been  among  the  most  respectable  of  all 
vocations.  We  have  experienced  the  wildest  orgy  of  speculation  the 
world  has  ever  known  and  we  are  now  discovering,  according  to  reports 
following  investigations,  that  the  public  has  been  fleeced  by  misrepre- 
sentation and  deceit  of  enough  money  to  pay  the  national  debt  twice 
over.  Misrepresentation  is  the  usual  concomitant  of  gambling  and  I 
think  of  all  get-rich-quick  schemes.  The  principle  of  honesty  seems  to  be 
inherent  in  sound  labor,  but  it  is  ordinarily  conspicuous  by  its  absence 
in  the  manipulations  that  bring  returns  without  work. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


37 


Now  the  most  serious  aspect  of  this  period  of  speculation  is  prob- 
ably not  the  loss  of  the  huge  sums  of  money  involved.  I  believe  it  to  be 
rather  a  demoralization  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  citizens  of  our  own 
and  other  countries.  They  have  seen  millionaires  made  and  unmade 
overnight.  Those  who  have  profited  in  many  instances  have  concluded 
that  good  work  and  honesty  do  not  pay,  that  is,  not  nearly  so  generously 
as  manipulation.  Those  who  have  lost  are  frequently  embittered  and 
resolve  on  equally  unworthy  schemes  of  recoupment  and  reprisal  against 
the  system  from  which  they  have  suffered.  Mutual  confidence  has 
received  a  great  set-back  because  common  honesty  has  been  depreciated. 

LACK  OF  CORPORATE  HONOR 

It  is  a  strange  thing  that  many  men  will  do  in  corporate  or  group 
capacity  what  they  would  not  dare  to  do  individually.  Corporations  and 
syndicates  are  born  for  the  promotion  of  enterprises  and  schemes  to 
which  men  contribute  their  money  and  their  names  when  individually 
these  same  men  would  not  sell  the  same  schemes  to  friends  and  neighbors. 
There  are  sound  indications  that  the  group  consciousness  has  been  dulled. 
This  too  is  demoralizing  to  individual  standards  of  honesty.  Until  we 
become  as  scrupulous  for  corporate  honor  as  for  individual  honor,  busi- 
ness as  a  whole  will  continue  under  a  moral  cloud. 

THE  LEGITIMATE  FUNCTION  OF  BUSINESS 

I  am  not  sure  but  that  there  prevails  pretty  generally  a  serious 
misconception  with  reference  to  the  legitimate  function  of  business.  So 
much  emphasis  has  been  laid  upon  competition,  that  many  have  reached 
the  conclusion  that  only  the  strongest  can  survive  and  that  it  is  proper 
to  do  anything  to  survive.  Until  business  shall  come  to  be  regarded  as 
the  beneficent  agent  for  the  conversion  of  human  energy  and  the  ele- 
ments of  the  universe  into  things  of  necessity,  convenience  and  beauty, 
with  equitable  recognition  of  all  factors  involved,  it  will  ever  be  a  fertile 
source  of  deceit  and  misrepresentation.  What  a  pity  it  should  be  so. 
The  very  foundation  upon  which  the  substantial  businesses  of  the  world 
have  been  built  is  good  character.  Honor  and  dependability  are  the 
bases  of  credit  the  world  over,  and  credit  is  the  life-blood  of  business. 

LACK  OF  POLITICAL  HONOR 

Much  as  I  hesitate  to  reflect  upon  our  government,  I  cannot  refrain 
from  calling  attention  to  governmental  practises  which  I  am  sure  have 
contributed  to  the  decline  of  private  and  public  honor.  The  old  saying 
that  all  is  fair  in  love  and  war  seems  to  be  painfully  applicable  to  politics 
as  well.  Since  no  campaign  is  in  progress  at  the  present  time,  one  can 
speak  without  great  hazard  of  being  accused  of  partisan  motives.  False 
representations  of  persons  and  parties,  innuendoes  and  half  truths  de- 
signed to  besmirch  character,  and  promises  given  with  no  intention  of 
fulfilment,  are  all  so  common  in  our  political  procedure  that  our  inclina- 
tion is  to  suspect  rather  than  to  believe,  and  we  seldom  take  a  candidate, 
party  or  promise  at  face  value.   Sectionalism,  trading  for  advantage  and 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


pork  barrel  legislation  have  degraded  our  politics  to  such  an  extent  that 
real  statesmanship  is  indeed  at  a  premium.  With  hundreds  of  thousands 
of  persons  in  the  nation  directly  or  indirectly  feeding  at  the  public  crib, 
utilizing  every  available  means  at  their  disposal,  either  fair  or  foul  which 
may  escape  the  penalties  of  the  law,  for  the  retention  of  their  positions, 
and  with  other  hundreds  of  thousands  seeking  to  displace  them,  npt 
imbued  in  the  main  with  any  motives  other  than  to  put  themselves  in 
lucrative  positions ;  will  any  one  contend  that  such  conditions  have  not 
tended  to  reduce  materially  the  standards  of  public  and  private  integrity 
throughout  the  country? 

So  long  as  public  patronage  continues  to  be  the  major  item  in  public 
service,  it  cannot  be  otherwise.  So  long  as  we  tolerate  a  system  of 
political  ethics  which  permits  a  man  to  brazenly  announce  his  own 
candidacy  and  more  brazenly  still  appeal  and  contrive  for  public  support 
to  win  for  himself  an  office  as  if  it  were  a  personal  perquisite,  so  long  as 
men  call  themselves  instead  of  awaiting  the  call  of  country,  we  can 
scarcely  hope  for  better  days  in  the  cause  of  common  political  honor. 

DEMORALIZING  INTEGRITY  OF  OUR  CITIZENSHIP 

I  am  driven  to  the  conclusion,  much  as  I  should  like  to  avoid  it  and 
the  reflection  which  it  entails,  that  the  great  institution  of  politics  which 
in  its  true  essence  is  the  science  of  civil  government  has  harbored  so 
much  of  personal  and  group  selfishness,  so  much  of  craftiness,  chicanery, 
misrepresentation  and  vilification  to  gain  the  ends  of  self-seekers,  that  it 
must  be  counted  as  one  of  the  large  contributing  factors  in  the  demoral- 
ization of  the  integrity  of  our  citizenship.  You  know  and  I  know  that 
many  of  the  country's  best  and  most  capable  men  positively  decline 
participation  in  political  affairs  for  reasons  which  I  have  mentioned. 
It  is  a  great  pity.  We  all  suffer  because  of  it.  I  wish  we  might  rectify 
such  conditions.  I  believe  that  there  is  a  serious-minded  disposition  on 
the  part  of  great  numbers  of  our  citizens  to  do  so.  The  times  are 
fortuitous  for  a  change.   God  grant  that  it  may  come  speedily. 

In  saying  the  things  I  have  said  it  is  not  my  purpose  to  cast  reflec- 
tion upon  all  of  our  public  servants.  There  are  many  notable  exceptions 
to  the  general  Observations  I  have  made,  but  they  are  exceptions  un- 
fortunately.   They  are  not  the  rule  in  American  politics  today. 

USING  RELIGION  FOR  ULTERIOR  PURPOSES 

And  now  I  propose  to  discuss  briefly  the  influence  of  religion  on 
the  questions  I  have  propounded  for  your  consideration.  It  may  seem 
almost  sacrilegious  to  mention  it  in  the  same  breath  with  business  and 
politics  as  a  possible  contributor  to  some  of  our  moral  maladies,  but  I 
must  tell  you  frankly  that  I  honestly  believe  it  has  its  place  in  that 
category.  Not  that  religion  itself  is  censurable,  but  false  and  insincere 
professors  of  religion  have  dealt  blows  to  the  cause  of  moral  honesty 
that  are  even  more  disastrous  than  those  arising  out  of  business  or 
politics,  and  this  for  the  reason  that  religion  reaches  deeper  into  the 
moral  fiber  of  man  than  the  other  items  which  deal  chiefly  with  tempor- 
alities. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


There  is  no  deceit  like  religious  hypocrisy.  There  is  no  crook  coni-. 
parable  to  the  pious  crook.  I  hesitate  to  use  these  extreme  terms  but  I 
cannot  conceal  my  contempt  for  the  man  who  imposes  on  his  fellows 
under  a  church  cloak — whose  life  is  a  spiritual  lie.  I  hope  there  are 
not  many  such  in  the  world.  I  think  they  are  relatively  few  but  there 
have  been  altogether  too  many  who  have  used  religion  for  ulterior  pur- 
poses. In  so  doing  they  have  done  infinitely  more  than  merely  to  bring 
injury  to  themselves  and  the  victims  of  their  deceit.  They  have  served 
as  perhaps  nothing  else  has  done  to  destroy  faith  and  confidence  in 
religion  itself  and  in  the  virtues  which  it  supports. 

I  am  one  who  believes  that  revealed  religion  is  the  real  mother  of  all 
true  morality.  Certainly  for  mankind  in  general,  religious  conviction  is 
the  firmest  prop  of  his  goodness.  To  destroy  the  prop  is  to  endanger  the 
collapse  of  the  whole  moral  and  ethical  structure  which  rests  upon  it. 
I  believe  that  throughout  all  time  the  greatest  enemies  of  religion  have 
been  found  within  and  not  out  of  the  churches.  One  man  professing 
religious  allegiance  and  devotion  but  living  a  lie  can  do  more  to  tear 
down  faith  and  loyalty  and  plant  the  seeds  of  distrust  and  deceit  than 
many  good  men  can  repair  with  arduous  labors. 

EFFECT  OF  UNRIGHTEOUS  EXERCISE  OF  SPIRITUAL  POWER 

I  hope  I  shall  not  give  offense  if  I  venture  some  applications  of  this 
principle.  The  man  who  uses  the  influence  and  prestige  of  his  eccle- 
siastical office  for  the  furtherance  of  personal  and  selfish  interests,  injures 
the  cause  of  religion  and  sows  the  seeds  of  dishonesty.  Spiritual  power 
is  the  most  sacred  power  entrusted  to  man.  It  is  given  for  holy  pur- 
poses. If  it  is  exercised  "in  any  degree  of  unrighteousness,"  "amen  to 
the  priesthood  or  the  authority  of  that  man."  Not  only  is  his  priestly 
action  vitiated  but  he  has  done  irreparable  injury  to  the  cause  of  religion 
itself.  Thousands  of  honest  people  not  able  to  distinguish  between  the 
hypocrisy  of  men  and  the  cause  itself  have  turned  a  deaf  ear  to  the  appeal 
of  truth.  Stories  and  plays  built  around  the  theme  of  the  pretending, 
insincere  worshiper  have  been  a  deterrent  to  faith  in  men  for  ages 
past.  Such  circumstances  seem  hard  on  religion,  but  are  the  conclusions 
not  justified?  Who  should  be  held  to  a  higher  degree  of  accountability 
than  the  one  who  professes  to  have  received  absolute  knowledge  of  God's 
truth. 

THE  STANDARDS  OF  A  RELIGIOUS  MAN 

It  is  the  truth  that  makes  men  free,  free  from  ignorance,  free  to 
choose  the  right.  It  is  the  truth — the  knowledge  of  things  as  they  were, 
as  they  are  and  as  they  will  be  which  gives  to  men  vision,  understanding 
and  wisdom.  It  is  reasonable  that  more  should  be  expected  of  those  who 
have  the  truth.  Can  a  man  who  has  testimony  of  the  truth  lie  a  little,  steal 
a  little,  or  malign  his  neighbor  with  impunity?  Who  sets  the  standard 
for  a  religious  man  ?  Is  it  the  community  in  which  he  lives,  the  customs 
which  have  become  prevalent?  No.  His  standards  are  set  in  the  reve- 
lations of  God.  Through  his  faith  he  hears  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord  declared  from  Sinai  resounding  down  through  the  ages :  "Thou 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


shalt  not  steal."  "Thou  shalt  not  bear  false  witness  against  thy  neighbor." 
He  knows  that  these  injunctions  are  unequivocal  and  eternal.  He  knows 
that  they  are  the  foundation  of  virtue  and  he  knows  that  they  are  essen- 
tial to  the  eternal  welfare  of  the  race.  Of  course,  more  is  expected  of 
the  religious  man. 

CHARGED  WITH  AN  IMPORTANT  RESPONSIBILITY 

Fellow  members  of  the  Church,  I  may  overestimate  our  position 
in  the  world,  our  opportunities  and  responsibilities,  but  I  declare  it  as 
my  solemn  conviction  that  no  other  organization  is  charged  so  definitely 
with  the  responsibility  of  sustaining  the  true  and  eternal  standards  of 
virtue  in  the  world  as  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
We  know  that  these  standards  are  imperiled  today  but  I  confidently  believe 
that  if  it  can  be  demonstrated  that  three-quarters  of  a  million  people 
scattered  through  the  nations  of  the  earth,  giving  allegiance  to  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  can  live  honest,  dependable  lives, 
resisting  all  untoward  temptations  and  influences,  that  demonstration  will 
serve  to  convince  the  teeming  millions  of  the  earth  that  they  can  do  like- 
wise. 

We  can  make  that  demonstration  in  one  way  only.  By  being  what 
we  profess  to  be^— disciples  of  the  Christ.  How  it  hurts  me,  how  it 
injures  our  cause  to  see  a  man,  a  member  of  the  Church,  steal  from  an 
employer,  default  in  public  office,  obtain  money  by  false  pretenses,  cheat 
in  business,  repudiate  an  honest  obligation,  lie  and  deceive  for  political 
or  other  gain.  Why,  the  work  of  a  hundred  missionaries  can  scarcely 
make  amends  for  the  criticism  and  shame  thrown  on  the  people  of  the 
Church  by  one  bishop  who  violates  his  trust  in  public  office.  The  loss 
of  money  is  insignificant  compared  with  the  loss  of  honor.  We  can 
and  we  will  recoup  our  financial  misfortunes  but  it  will  be  most  difficult 
for  us  to  regain  our  enviable  reputation  for  fair  and  honorable  dealing 
if  we  ever  lose  it.   I  pray  God  we  never  will. 

I  think  if  I  were  permitted  to  offer  one  prayer  only  for  my  brothers 
and  sisters  it  would  be  this :  O  God,  keep  us  honest  under  the  pressure 
these  hard  times  have  laid  upon  us.  Let  us  be  true  to  all  men  and  to 
Thee.  Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Central 
States  Mission 

I  pray  that  I  may  be  led  to  say  that  which  the  Lord  would 
have  me  say  on  this  occasion  for  our  good.  There  is  an  excellent 
spirit  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  I  do  appreciate  the  oppor- 
tunity I  have  had  for  a  goodly  number  of  years  of  coming  home  to 
attend  the  conferences  of  the  Church  and  to  partake  of  that  spirit. 

I  believe  with  all  my  heart,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the 
mission  of  this  Church  is  to  carry  the  Gospel  of  salvation  to  the 
children  of  men,  for  their  benefit,  not  only  here  but  in  the  eternities 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


41 


to  come ;  this  is  a  responsibility  laid  upon  our  shoulders  by  our 
eternal  Father. 

I  believe,  too,  that  we  learned  this  Gospel  plan  before  we  came 
into  the  world ;  that  we  participated  in  the  great  program  that  the  Lord 
arranged  for  the  benefit  of  his  children  when  they  should  come  upon 
the  earth.  And  men  endowed  with  the  spirit  which  responds  to 
that  plan  are  yet  scattered  among  the  nations  of  the  earth,  waiting 
for  the  Gospel  to  reach  them. 

It  has  been  my  responsibility  for  a  number  of  years  to  play  my 
part  in  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel,  and  I  have  taken  a  great  deal 
of  pleasure  in  it.  I  have  no  question  whatever  in  my  mind  as  to 
the  divinity  of  the  great  calling  of  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet.  I 
am  positive  that  he  received  that  which  he  said  he  did  from  our 
Father  in  Heaven,  and  that  our  eternal  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ  appeared  unto  him  in  this  dispensation  and  revealed  unto 
him  the  true  order  of  worship.  This  has  been  made  known  through 
the  Prophet  to  thousands  of  men  and  women  from  that  time  until 
now.  The  evidences  of  it  I  see  continually  in  the  history  of  this 
Church,  a  history  that  must  attract  the  attention  of  the  children  of 
men  who  are  honest.  Men  and  women  who  are  seeking  for  the 
better  things  in  life  are  being  led  to  the  great  door  of  opportunity, 
by  investigating  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

We  have  a  hundred  years  of  history  which  must  stand  out  as 
an  assurance  to  all  honorable  men  that  no  body  of  people  could 
operate  or  live  as  long  as  this  Church  has  done  and  make  the 
progress  that  it  has  made  in  the  world  if  it  were  not  divinely  guided 
and  inspired.    Its  doctrines  have  never  been  successfully  assailed. 

I  love  the  children  of  men.  I  believe  that  I  owe  it  to  men 
everywhere  to  do  all  that  I  can  to  lead  them  back  into  the  path  of 
duty.  I  know  they  kept  their  first  estate,  else  they  would  not  be 
here.  And  I  know  that  the  future  life  of  all  men  rests  largely  upon 
their  work  here  in  mortality.  This  period  of  time  allotted  to  us  is 
a  temporary  existence,  one  where  we  can  prove  ourselves  unto  the 
Lord  and  unto  our  fellow  men ;  where  we  can  take  advantage  of 
that  which  the  Lord  has  revealed.  It  is  a  marvelous  thing  to  be 
able  to  live  in  this  world,  to  have  the  experience  of  being  taber- 
nacled in  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones,  taking  upon  oneself  the  responsibility 
of  life,  the  making  of  a  world  in  a  temporal  way,  accomplishing  this 
through  the  power  of  our  eternal  Father. 

There  is  nothing  in  all  of  his  creation  greater  than  the  sons 
and  daughters  of  God.  The  youth  of  our  country  are  most  appeal- 
ing. In  my  travels  among  the  children  of  men  I  am  greatly  im- 
pressed by  the  boys  and  the  girls  with  whom  I  come  in  contact. 
When  I  attend  to  my  prayers  morning  and  night  I  pray  for  the 
youth  of  Zion.  I  pray  that  they  may  turn  unto  the  Lord.  I  pray 
that  wise  men  may  be  raised  up  to  lead  them  along  paths  that  are 
safe,  that  they  may  be  able  to  enjoy  the  great  opportunities  that 
are  theirs. 

It  is  a  glorious  privilege  to  know  that  God  lives ;  to  be  able  to 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


testify  of  him  without  fear.  1  never  saw  Joseph  Smith  or  his  brother 
Hyrum  with  mortal  eyes,  or  any  of  those  who  laid  the  foundations 
of  Zion.  I  never  knew  Brigham  Young,  only  as  I  have  read  of 
him,  but  I  know  that  he  and  those  before  him  labored  under  the 
direction  of  God  the  Father,  and  that  they  established  his  work  in 
the  earth;  and  that  those  who  followed  them,  from  then  until  now, 
have  had  that  same  power  and  influence  and  authority. 

There  can  be  no  failure  at  all  on  the  part  of  the  Lord's  work, 
if  men  and  women  will  do  their  part.  I  have  faith  and  confidence 
in  the  people  of  this  Church  and  in  the  priesthood.  I  am  sure  that 
they  are  men  of  God,  and  that  he  is  training  them  for  the  great 
events  that  are  to  take  place  in  the  further  establishment  of  his 
work.  I  am  not  at  all  worried  over  the  success  of  this  Church.  I 
know  that  if  we  will  do  our  part,  if  we  will  be  true  to  him  in  the 
calling  whereunto  we  have  been  called,  our  eternal  Father  can 
accomplish  his  purposes  much  faster  than  otherwise. 

I  hope,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  may  be  able  to  live  up 
to  the  requirements  that  have  been  made  of  me  and  the  appoint- 
ment that  I  have  received  this  day.  I  can  do  it  if  I  do  my  part, 
and  if  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  Church  will  do  that  which 
I  hope  they  will,  sustain  me  as  they  do  all  others  who  are  in  posi- 
tions of  trust,  either  in  the  wards  or  stakes  of  Zion,  or  in  the 
leadership  of  this  Church.  May  we  all  stand  for  God  our  eternal 
Father  and  those  whom  he  has  selected  to  represent  him  here  in 
the  earth. 

I  hope  the  congregation  that  was  here  this  morning  will  read 
and  re-read  the  address  that  was  made  by  President  Heber  J. 
Grant ;  and  that  men  and  women  in  all  parts  of  the  world  will 
read  it.  People  who  are  not  honest  in  their  hearts  will  not  be 
swerved  by  it,  but  those  who  are  sincere  will  be  touched  and  led  to 
believe  in  that  great  doctrine  that  was  taught  here  today  by  a 
prophet  of  the  living  God.  It  will  bring  to  their  souls  evidence 
that  God  lives  and  that  he  speaks  through  the  mouths  of  his 
servants  and  gives  unto  them  the  evidence  that  they  may  find  him 
if  they  so  desire. 

A  There  are  millions  of  men  and  women  in  this  world  who  are 
intelligent  and  morally  good,  if  they  can  only  be  reached.  We  pray 
that  the  doctrines  of  this  Church  may  go  to  the  honest  in  heart 
through  the  mouths  of  those  who  are  appointed  to  preach  it,  and 
through  the  living  of  it  by  those  who  have  received  it  as  the  truth. 
To  this  end  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  say  what  is  truth?" 
Elder  William  J.  Henderson,  President  of  the  Panguitch  Stake, 
pronounced  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Friday  morning,  April  7. 


SECOND  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

The  third  session  of  the  Conference  was  opened  promptly  at  10 
o'clock  a.  m.,  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant  announcing  that  the  congre- 
gation would  sing  the  hymn,  "How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the 
Lord." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn,  Elder  Byron  O.  Colton,  President 
of  the  Roosevelt  Stake,  offered  the  opening  prayer. 

A  duet,  "The  Morning  Land,"  was  sung  by  Miss  Rae  Miles  and 
C.  T.  Packard. 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

In  rilling  a  Sunday  appointment  some  years  ago  to  speak  in  the 
Tabernacle  and  while  talking  I  incidentally  mentioned  our  life  before 
we  came  here  upon  the  earth.  I  do  not  remember  just  the  expression 
used,  but  I  was  not  discoursing  particularly  upon  the  subject  of  man's 
pre-existence.  I  perhaps  made  the  statement  that  we  ought  to  be  as  faith- 
ful and  valiant  in  this  life  as  we  were  in  the  life  before  We  came  here. 
At  any  rate  at  the  conclusion  of  the  meeting,  as  I  walked  down  the  steps 
from  the  pulpit  I  was  met  by  a  small  group  of  tourists,  one  of  whom, 
a  well-dressed  and  intelligent  woman  of  middle  age,  seemed  to  be  the 
spokesman  for  the  group.  After  making  a  few  comments  of  a  com- 
plimentary character,  this  lady  made  the  astounding  statement  that  she 
was  a  relative  of  the  former  Confederate  President  of  the  United  States, 
Jefferson  Davis ;  that  her  father  was  a  minister  of  the  gospel,  and  that 
his  father  before  him  was  also  a  minister  of  the  gospel,  and  that  she 
had  been  a  regular  attendant  at  church  services  all  her  life,  but  never 
before  had  she  heard  taught  or  suggested  that  man  had  a  living  exist- 
ence before  coming  here  upon  the  earth. 

PRE-EXISTENCE  NOT  UNDERSTOOD 

I  think  perhaps  I  was  as  much  surprised  at  hearing  her  make  this 
statement  as  she  was  in  hearing  what  I  had  said  about  pre-existence. 

The  principle  of  man's  pre-existence  is  so  well  established  by  the 
Old  and  New  Testaments,  as  well  as  the  other  standard  works  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  that  it  seemed  to  me  almost 
impossible  that  men  who  had  studied  for  the  ministry,  and  who  are  sup- 
posed to  interpret  the  word  of  the  Lord  as  contained  in  the  Bible,  could 
be  misled  or  be  unable  to  see  that  principle  plainly.  I  have  since  made 
inquiry  in  my  travels  and  in  my  association  with  those  who  are  not  of 
our  faith  and  have  found  that  Christian  people  generally  do  not  believe 
in  nor  do  they  understand  the  principle  of  man's  pre-existence. 

One  minister  with  whom  I  talked  at  considerable  length  while  riding 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


on  a  railroad  train,  at  the  conclusion  of  our  conversation  said  that  it  might 
be  that  Jesus  Christ  had  a  former  existence,  but  that  he  could  not  admit 
that  much  of  men  generally.  Inasmuch  as  this  principle  of  man's  pre- 
existence  is  so  fundamental  in  the  plan  of  the  Gospel  and  is  a  key  to 
the  understanding  of  many  passages  of  scripture  without  which  they 
could  not  be  properly  understood,  I  thought  I  might  speak  upon  this 
subject  this  morning. 

A   SPIRITUAL  CREATION 

I  call  attention  to  the  very  first  chapter  in  Genesis,  which  gives  an 
account  of  the  creation  of  the  earth  and  of  vegetation  upon  the  earth, 
of  animals  and  also  of  man,  and  which  is  really  a  spiritual  creation,  but 
which  men  and  women  seem  not  to  have  understood.  In  this  account  we 
read  that  God  said:  "Let  us  make  man  in  our  image,  after  our  like- 
ness." It  plainly  tells  us  that  man  was  created  in  the  image  and 
likeness  of  his  Maker.  And  then  after  the  account  is  given  we  are  told 
that  the  Lord  rested  from  his  labors  on  the  seventh  day. 

It  would  seem  that  everything  pertaining  to  the  creation  had  been 
then  completed.  But  when  we  read  the  second  chapter  of  Genesis  we 
find  that  what  is  recorded  in  the  first  chapter  is  an  account  of  a  spiritual 
creation. 

"These  are  the  generations  of  the  heavens  and  of  the  earth  when  they  were 
created,  in  the  day  that  the  Lord  God  made  the  earth  and  the  heavens, 

"And  every  plant  of  the  field  before  it  was  in  the  earth,  and  every  herb  of 
the  field  before  it  grew :  for  the  Lord  God  had  not  caused  it  to  rain  upon  the  earth, 
and  there  was  not  a  man  to  till  the  ground. 

"But  there  went  up  a  mist  from  the  earth,  and  watered  the  whole  face  of  the 
ground. 

"And  the  Lord  God  formed  man  of  the  dust  of  the  ground,  and  breathed  into 
his  nostrils  the  breath  of  life ;  and  man  became  a  living  soul." 

Notwithstanding  an  account  had  been  given  in  the  first  chapter  of 
the  creation  of  man  and  of  other  things,  the  second  chapter  of  Genesis 
gives  an  account  of  the  creation  of  all  those  things  that  had  been  created 
spiritually.  This  would  seem  to  be  sufficiently  plain  that  men  and  women 
studying  it  would  be  able  to  reach  a  conclusion  that  the  earth  and  all 
things  pertaining  to  it — vegetation,  animals  and  man — had  really  a  spirit- 
ual creation. 

In  the  Book  of  Moses,  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  is  given  an 
account  of  the  spiritual  creation  as  the  Lord  revealed  it  to  Moses : 

"And  1 ,  the  Lord  God,  had  created  all  the  children  of  men ;  and  not  yet  a  man 
to  till  the  ground;  for  in  heaven  created  I  them;  and  there  was  not  yet  flesh 
upon  the  earth,  neither  in  the  water,  neither  in  the  air ;  *  *  * 

"All  things  were  before  created;  but  spiritually  were  they  created  and  made 
according  to  my  word."  (Moses  3) 

We  have  additional  information  pertaining  to  this  great  principle 
in  our  standard  works  that  helps  to  make  more  plain  and  easy  to  be 
understood  this  very  important  principle. 

WAR  IN  HEAVEN 

In  the  last  book  of  the  New  Testament  we  have  an  account  of  the 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  45 

war  which  took  place  in  heaven,  which  of  course  could  not  have  been 
had  there  not  been  people  engaged  in  it.  In  the  twelfth  chapter  of  the 
Book  of  Revelation  we  read  as  follows : 

"And  there  was  war  in  heaven:  Michael  and  his  angels  fought  against  the 
dragon;  and  the  dragon  fought  and  his  angels, 

"And  prevailed  not;  neither  was  their  place  found  any  more  in  heaven. 

"And  the  great  dragon  was  cast  out,  that  old  serpent,  called  the  Devil,  and 
Satan,  which  deceiveth  the  whole  world :  he  was  cast  out  into  the  earth,  and  his 
angels  were  cast  out  with  him." 

Speaking  of  the  dragon,  we  read  in  the  fourth  verse : 

"And  his  tail  drew  the  third  part  of  the  stars  of  heaven,  and  did  cast  them 
to  the  earth." 

So  that  we  understand  without  any  further  revelation  that  this 
same  Lucifer  was  the  one  who  rebelled  in  heaven,  and  he  was  cast  out  and 
with  him  one-third  of  heaven's  host. 

In  Jude  1 :6  we  read : 

"And  the  angels  which  kept  not  their  first  estate,  but  left  their  own  habita- 
tion, he  hath  reserved  in  everlasting  chains  under  darkness  unto  the  judgment  of 
the  great  day." 

OUR  RELATIONSHIP  TO  GOD 

In  Hebrews  12  :9  we  have  a  reference  to  the  relationship  we  sustain 
to  God : 

"We  have  had  fathers  of  our  flesh  which  have  corrected  us,  and  we  gave  them 
reverence:  shall  we  not  much  rather  be  in  subjection  unto  the  Father  of  spirits, 
and  live?" 

I  wonder  how  men  and  women  can  read  such  scriptures  and  not 
understand  pre-existence. 

THE  PRE-EXISTENCE  OF  CHRIST 

We  read  in  the  first  chapter  of  John : 

"In  the  begnining  was  the  Word,  and  the  Word  was  with  God,  and  the  Word 
was  God. 

"The  same  was  in  the  beginning  with  God. 

"All  things  were  made  by  him ;  and  without  him  was  not  anything  made  that 
was  made." 

John  here  refers  to  the  Son  of  God,  as  expressly  stated  in  another 
verse  of  that  chapter: 

"And  the  Word  was  made  flesh  and  dwelt  among  us." 

So  that  we  might  read  that  scripture,  "In  the  beginning  was  Jesus 
Christ,  and  he  was  with,  God,  and  he  was  God" — thus  showing  a  plurality 
of  Gods,  or  in  other  words,  God  the  Father,  and  God  the  Son.  "All 
things  were  made  by  him,  and  without  him  was  not  anything  made  that 
was  made." 

FIRST-BORN  AND  CREATOR  OF  HEAVEN  AND  EARTH 

Even  before  he  was  born  into  this  world  as  a  babe  in  Bethlehem, 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


he  must  have  had  an  existence  and  a  power,  even  that  of  a  God,  to  create 
the  heavens  and  the  earth  and  all  things  therein. 

The  Apostle  Paul  in  writing  to  the  Colossians  makes  a  similar 
statement,  that  all  things  were  created  by  him,  visible  and  invisible.  He 
makes  a  further  statement  that  he  was  the  first-born,  which  expression 
implies  at  once  that  there  were  others  born  as  well  as  he  of  the  same  kind 
of  birth.  It  is  clear  that  no  reference  is  made  there  to  his  birth  in  the 
flesh,  for  he  came  in  the  meridian  of  time.  It  was  some  other  birth, 
and  What  other  but  that  when  he  was  born  of  his  eternal  Father  in  the 
spirit  as  we  were  born?  And  thus  this  principle  is  established — the 
Fatherhood  of  God  and  the  brotherhood  of  man.  How  men  who  do  not 
understand  the  principle  of  pre-existence  can  understand  the  Fatherhood 
of  God  and  the  brotherhood  of  man  I  cannot  comprehend. 

LOVE  OF  GOD  AND  FELLOW  MEN 

We  read  in  the  scriptures  that  the  first  great  commandment  is  that 
we  shall  love  the  Lord  our  God  with  all  our  heart,  with  all  our  soul  and 
with  all  our  mind ;  and  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  we  shall  love  our  neigh- 
bor as  ourselves,  remembering  that  blood  is  thicker  than  water,  and  that 
things  earthly  are  typical  of  things  heavenly.  We  know  that  by  reason 
of  the  relationship  we  sustain  to  God  our  Heavenly  Father  and  to  our 
fellow  men  we  should  love  them — love  the  Lord  with  all  our  heart  and 
that  sincerely,  and  love  our  fellow  men  and  serve  them,  because  they 
are  in  very  deed  our  brothers  and  our  sisters. 

ONE  INDIVIDUAL  FROM   BEGINNING  TO  END 

By  an  understanding  of  this  principle  of  pre-existence  we  under- 
stand the  evolution  of  man,  if  that  is  a  correct  expression,  or  his  eternal 
progress,  following  in  the  footsteps  of  the  Savior,  the  First-born,  being 
born  of  God  in  the  spirit,  having  a  spiritual  existence  and  then  coming 
here  upon  the  earth  to  have  an  earthly  existence,  passing  on  through 
death  to  another  spiritual  existence,  and  then  the  resurrection,  and 
through  faithfulness  and  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the 
Gospel  go  on  to  eternal  life  and  exaltation.  There  is  just  the  one  indi- 
vidual from  beginning  to  end.  The  fallacy  of  the  reincarnation  of  man 
theory  is  here  made  apparent,  as  also  the  doctrine  of  evolution,  in  which 
it  is  taught  that  man  originated  with  the  lower  animals,  the  very  lowest 
type,  and  came  up  by  degrees. 

We  rejoice  in  the  knowledge  of  the  Gospel,  that  we  are  of  noble 
ancestry,  that  we  are  indeed  sons  and  daughters  of  God ;  and  understand- 
ing this  we  realize  what  manner  of  men  we  ought  to  be,  which  could 
not  be  understood  but  for  this  knowledge  of  pre-existence.  The  origin 
of  man  is  here  set  forth  as  well  as  his  eternal  progression.  The  origin 
of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  hereby  understood  as  taught  in  the1 
scriptures. 

BEFORE  THE  WORLD  WAS 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  made  use  of  this  expression : 
"At  the  first  organization  in  heaven  we  were  all  present  and  saw  the  Savior 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


47 


chosen  and  appointed  and  the  plan  of  salvation  made,  and  we  sanctioned  it." 
(Compendium,  p.  288)  ........ 

His  statement  is  confirmed  by  scripture  as  follows : 

Revelations  13:8:  "And  all  that  dwell  upon  the  earth  shall  worship  him,  whose 
names  are  not  written  in  the  book  of  life  of  the  Lamb  slain  from  the  foundation 
of  the  world." 

Also  I  Peter  1:19,  20:  "But  with  the  precious  blood  of  Christ,  as  of  a  lamb 
without  blemish,  and  without  spot :  who  verily  was  foreordained  before  the  foun- 
dation of  the  world. 

The  proper  interpretation  is  of  course  that  in  the  council  of  heaven 
before  the  world  was,  Christ  our  Lord,  was  chosen  to  be  the  Savior  of 
mankind,  to  come  in  the  meridian  of  time.  He  is  characterized  all  through 
the  scriptures  as  the  Lamb  of  God,  the  Lamb  without  blemish.  And 
when  God  gave  Adam  a  charge  to  build  an  altar  and  offer  a  sacrifice,  it 
was  a  type  of  that  sacrifice  which  was  to  be  made  by  the  Lamb  of  God. 
It  was  to  be  a  lamb,  one  of  the  firstlings  of  the  flock  and  without  blemish. 
How  beautifully  it  represents  the  Son  of  God ! 

The  purpose  of  his  being  chosen  before  the  world  was  is  explained 
in  the  scripture  as  follows  (I  Cor.  15 :21,  22)  : 

"For  since  by  man  came  death,  by  man  came  also  the  resurrection  of  the 
dead. 

"For  as  in  Adam  all  die,  even  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be  made  alive." 
THE  AUTHOR  OF  SALVATION 

This  shows  that  the  fall  was  understood  as  a  part  of  this  great  plan 
of  the  Gospel  before  the  world  was,  and  provision  was  made  to  redeem 
mankind  from  the  fall. 

We  read  further  (Heb.  5  :8,  9)  : 

"Though  he  were  a  Son,  yet  learned  he  obedience  by  the  things  which  he 
suffered; 

"And  being  made  perfect,  he  became  the  author  of  eternal  salvation  unto  all 
them  that  obey  him." 

It  must  have  been  understood  then  tha  t  the  atonement  which  .he  was 
to  work  out  when  he  should  come  upon  the  earth  should  be  the  means  of 
redeeming  mankind  from  their  sins  on  condition  of  obedience  unto  the 
laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel,  as  set  forth  in  the  third  article  of 
our  faith : 

"We  believe  that  through  the  atonement  of  Christ  all  mankind  may  be  saved 
by  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel." 

THE  PLAN  OF  SALVATION 

This  is  a  part  of  the  Gospel  which  was  instituted  in  the  heavens. 
We  have  no  account  of  God  instituting  any  other  Gospel,  any  other  plan 
of  salvation,  and  anything  in  conflict  with  that  plan  as  there  ordained 
and  taught  by  Christ  our  Lord  and  his  disciples  will  be  contrary  to  the 
mind  and  will  of  God  and  calculated  to  lead  men  away  from  rather  than 
to  the  Lord  and  the  plan  of  salvation  itself.  Just  one  Lord,  one  faith, 
one  baptism — God  the  Eternal  Father,  and  Jesus  Christ  his  Son,  .the 
Savior  of  the  world.  .••  ■'- 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  feel  grateful  in  my  soul  for  this  light  that  has  come  to  us  in 
connection  with  all  the  other  light  and  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  which 
we  have  received. 

GOD  AT  THE  HELM 

I  know,  brethren  and  sisters,  of  the  truth  of  this  work.  I  know  that 
it  will  endure.  For  a  century  men  have  tried  to  disprove  its  truth — in- 
telligent men,  learned  men — and  they  have  signally  failed.  They  ever 
will.  This  work  is  to  go  on,  it  is  God's  work,  he  is  at  the  helm  and) 
directing  it,  and  those  who  are  at  the  head  of  the  Church  here  on  the 
earth  are  his  vicegerents.  At  the  present  time,  Heber  J.  Grant,  the 
President  of  this  Church,  as  the  prophet,  seer  and  revelator  and  God's 
mouthpiece  to  this  Church,  is  directed  by  the  same  spirit  that  has  di- 
rected his  predecessors,  and  this  work  has  never  halted  for  a  moment 
from  its  inception  until  the  present  time.  It  never  will,  it  will  go  on 
until  God's  purposes  shall  have  been  fully  consummated,  until  our  Lord 
shall  come  and  take  possession  of  this,  God's  kingdom  upon  earth,  and 
shall  rule  as  King  of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords. 

May  the  Lord  add  his  blessing' to  this  testimony,  I  ask  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

IF  WISDOM  IS  LACKING  

A  boy,  age  fourteen,  was  troubled  in  his  mind  about  religion ;  he 
was  uneasy.  At  times  he  was  greatly  excited.  There  was  tumult  every- 
where in  his  neighborhood.  In  this  confusion  and  distress,  although  but 
a  lad  in  years,  this  wise  young  man  sought  the  Holy  Bible. 

The  whole  world  today  is  likewise  in  confusion.  Men's  hearts  are 
failing  them.  Their  lives  are  filled  with  despair.  Many  are  unemployed, 
multitudes  discouraged.  How  many  of  these,  and  perhaps  it  may  be  well 
for  me  to  say,  how  many  of  us,  during  these  trying  conditions,  have  gone 
to  this  great,  this  good,  this  Holy  Book  in  search  of  something  that  will 
point  the  way? 

The  boy  opened  the  Holy  Book  to  the  first  chapter  of  James  and 
read : 

"If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men 
liberally,  and  upbraideth  not ;  and  it  shall  be  given  him." 

ASK  OF  GOD 

Again  and  again  he  reflected  upon  these  divine  words.  He  was 
certain  that  if  any  one  ever  needed  wisdom  he  needed  it  then.  How  to 
act  he  did  not  know.  He  concluded  that  unless  he  could  get  more  light, 
more  wisdom,  he  would  never  know.  At  length  came  the  conclusion 
that  he  must  either  remain  in  darkness  or  else  do  as  James  suggested, 
ask  of  God.  This  young  man  therefore  retired  to  the  woods  to  make 
the  effort.   It  was  on  a  clear  day  early  in  the  spring  of  1820  and  it  was 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


49 


his  first  attempt  to  pray  vocally.  The  result,  as  you  all  know,  was 
miraculous. 

In  the  confusion  of  the  world  today,  no  leader  or  group  of  leaders 
seems  to  have  the  necessary  wisdom,  the  necessary  vision  to  lead  or  to 
point  or  to  find  the  way  out.  Ought  not  all  the  people,  therefore,  to  turn 
to  the  first  chapter  of  James  and  read,  with  faith  believing,  those  divine 
words : 

"If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men 
liberally,  and  upbraideth  not ;  and  it  shall  be  given  him." 

WHO  HAS  FORGOTTEN  GOD? 

Are  you  praying ?  Am  I  praying?  Are  the  members  of  the  Church 
as  a  whole  praying?  Do  all  who  go  upon  their  knees  have  in  their  hearts 
genuinely  the  prayerful  spirit,  the  spirit  of  faith  and  humility?  Are  the 
words  they  utter  a  real,  a  heartfelt  prayer,  or  are  they  but  words  thought- 
lessly or  carelessly  spoken?  In  the  language  of  Lincoln,  is  it  possible 
that  the  people  of  the  world,  those  of  our  nation,  and  perhaps  some  of 
the  members  of  our  own  Church,  have  really  forgotten  God? 

We,  as  a  nation,  people  of  the  United  States  have  certainly  been 
"the  recipients  of  the  choicest  bounties  of  heaven ;  we  have  been  preserved 
these  many  years  in  prosperity ;  we  have  grown  in  numbers,  wealth  and 
power  as  no  other  nation  has  ever  grown." 

And  during  this  long  period  of  unusual  prosperity  have  we  for- 
gotten the  gracious  hand  that  has  multiplied  and  enriched  and  strength- 
ened us?  Have  we  vainly  imagined  in  the  deceitfulness  of  our  own 
hearts,  that  all  of  these  blessings  have  been  produced  by  some  superior 
wisdom  and  virtue  of  our  own?  Have  we  been  intoxicated  with  un- 
broken success  ?  Have  we  become  too  self-sufficient  to  feel  the  necessity 
of  redeeming  and  preserving  grace?  Are  we  of  America  too  proud  to 
pray  to  the  God  that  made  us?  If  these  conditions  prevail  then- truly 
"it  behooves  us  to  humble  ourselves  before  the  offended  power,  to  confess 
our  national  sins,  and  to  pray  for  clemency  and  for  forgiveness." 
(Lincoln) 

"protect  us  by  thy  might" 

But  speaking  to  you,  my  fellow  churchmen,  looking  into  your  faces, 
let  me  ask  more  specifically,  have  you  been  upon  your  knees  this  morning  ? 
Did  you  express  gratitude  last  night  before  you  went  to  rest  for  the 
blessings  of  yesterday  ?!  Have  we  Latter-day  Saints  earnestly  and  always 
sought  first  the  Kingdom  of  God  and  His  righteousness?  (Matt.  6:33) 

We  are  living  in  a  land  where  we  sing,  "Protect  us  by  Thy  might, 
great  God,  our  King."  Ours  is  the  nation  whose  motto  is,  "In  God  we 
Trust."  Our  statesmen  and  patriots  of  the  past  have  set  us  a  noble, 
a  worthy  example.  Washington  at  V alley  Forge  went  upon  his  knees 
and  appealed  for  the  help  of  Divine  Providence.  It  was  Lincoln  who 
said,  "it  behooves  us  to  humble  ourselves  before  the  offended  power, 
to  confess  our  national  sins  and  to  pray  for  clemency  and  forgiveness." 
In  those  other  dark  and  trying  days,  he  said,  the  great  trouble  with  our 
nation  is  "we  have  forgotten  God." 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


OUR  PRAYERS  HEARD 

.  "In  the  beginning  of  our  contest  with  Great  Britain,"  said  Franklin,  "when 
we  were  sensible  to  danger,  we  had  daily  prayers  for  divine  protection.  Our 
prayers  were  heard  and  they  were  graciously  answered.  *  *  *  I  have  lived  a 
long  time;  but  the  longer  I  live  the  more  convincing  proof  I  see  of  this  truth, 
that  God  governs  in  the  affairs  of  men." 

Checking  now  for  a  moment  on  our  individual  selves,  I  ask  again : 

"Ere  you  left  your  room  this  morning,  did  you  think  to  pray?  In  the  name 
of  Christ  our  Savior,  did  you  sue  for  loving  favor,  as  a  shield  today?  When 
your  heart  was  filled  with  anger,  did  you  think  to  pray?  Did  you  plead  for 
grace,  my  brother,  that  you  might  forgive  another  who  had  crossed  your  way?" 

PARTAKING  WORTHILY 

Did  you  attend  your  Sacrament  meeting'  last  Sunday  ?  If  so,  when 
you  partook  of  the  sacrament,  did  you  do  it  worthily  ?  How  many  times 
have  you  partaken  of  these  sacred  emblems  since  our  General  Conference 
six  months  ago?  How  many  times  have  I  partaken  of  the  sacrament, 
and  when  I  have  partaken  of  it,  have  I  done  so  worthily,  with  a  repent- 
ant, a  prayerful  spirit? 

PRAYERFUL  THOUGHT  AND  STUDY 

Remember,  family  prayers  simply  as  a  matter  of  form  are  not 
enough.  A  study  of  the  revelations  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  con- 
vinces me  that  inspiration,  wisdom,  revelation  and  divine  guidance  come 
as  a  result  of  faith,  of  fasting  and  praying  and  appealing  repeatedly  to 
the  Lord  for  knowledge  and  for  blessings.  In  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, I  have  found  expressions  like  the  following: 

"The  Lord  responded  to  the  Prophet's  supplication  by  granting  this  revela- 
tion." (Section  8.)  "It  is  not  sufficient  for  one  merely  to  ask  for  a  divine  gift, 
without  prayerful  thought  and  study."  (Section  9.)  "This  revelation  was 
received  *  *  *  in  answer  to  Joseph's  supplication  and  inquiry."  (Section  11.) 
"The  Prophet  inquired  of  the  Lord.  *  *  *  This  revelation  and  the  next  two 
following  were  given  in  answer."  (Section  14.)  "In  response  to  fervent  suppli- 
cation for  greater  knowledge  *  *  *  the  Lord  gave  this  revelation."  (Section 
18.)    Etc.,  etc. 

One  of  the  commandments  given  specifically  to  us  in  these  days  says  : 

PRAY  VOCALLY 

"And  again,  I  command  thee  that  thou  shalt  pray  vocally  as  well  as  in  thy 
heart;  yea,  before  the  world  as  well  as  in  secret,  in  public  as  well  as  in  private. 

"Pray  always,  and  I  will  pour  out  my  spirit  upon  you,  and  great  shall  be 
your  blessing."  (D.  and  C.  19:28,  38.) 

Have  we  obeyed  this  teaching  ?  Are  we  today  living  in  accordance 
with  it  ?  Are  you  mothers  and  fathers  in  your  families  praying  always  ? 

The  Lord  speaking  again  to  us  in  this  our  time  and  dispensation 
says,  "Be  diligent  in  keeping  all  my  commandments,  lest  judgments  come 
upon  you,  and  your  faith  fail  you,  and  your  enemies  triumph  over  you." 
(D.  and  C.  136:42.)  "I  give  unto  you  a  commandment  that  ye  shall 
continue  in  prayer  and  fasting  from  this  time  forth,"  (D,  and  C.  88:76) 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


51 


CRYING  FOR  FORGIVENESS 

Have  we  fasted,  have  we  prayed,  have  we  appealed,  have  we  re- 
pented, have  we  cried  unto  our  Heavenly  Father  for  our  shortcomings, 
our  imperfections,  our  weaknesses  to  be  forgiven  ?  Have  we  appealed  as 
the  Prophet  Joseph  appealed  ?  Are  we  humble  as  well  as  prayerful  ? 
For  another  commandment  says:  "Be  thou  humble;  and  the  Lord  thy 
God  shall  lead  thee  by  the  hand,  and  shall  give  thee  answer  to  thy  prayers." 
(D.  and  C.  112:10) 

Our  Lord  the  Savior  said :  "Watch,  and  pray,  that  ye  enter  not  into 
temptation."  (Matt.  26:41)  "Pray  without  ceasing,"  the  Bible  tells  us. 
(Thessalonians  5:17) 

Morning,  evening,  every  day,  in  faith  believing,  let  us  all  pray,  lest 
we  enter  into  temptation.  Let  us  seek  the  Lord  while  he  may  be  found. 
Let  us  call  upon  him,  and  let  us  call  earnestly,  while  he  is  near.  (Isaiah 
55 :6) 

CHEER  FOR  THE  FAITHFUL 

To  all  who  are  devoutly  religious,  to  those  who  remember  the 
Sabbath  day  to  keep  it  holy,  to  those  who  partake  of  the  sacrament  of 
the  Lord's  supper  regularly  and  partake  of  it  worthily,  to  those  who  go  to 
our  places  of  worship  frequently  and  there  in  their  hearts  appeal  to 
Providence  for  a  forgiveness  of  their  sins, -for  strength  to  overcome 
weaknesses,  for  vision  to  see  the  straight  and  narrow  way  and  for 
strength  to  walk  therein,  to  those  who  close  each  day's  labors  with  a 
prayer  of  thanks  to  Divine  Providence  and  to  those  who  begin  the  labors 
of  the  day  with  an  appeal  for  divine  help  and  light,  truly,  verily  to  all 
such  "every  day  is  a  fresh  beginning,  every  morn  is  the  world  made 
new."  (Susan  Coolidge) 

THE  PRAYERFUL  SPIRIT 

When  these  prayers  of  which  I  have  spoken  are  offered  in  the 
family  circle,  at  church,  to  open  a  meeting  or  to  close  it,  and  more  espe- 
cially when  blessings  are  asked  upon  the  holy  sacrament,  upon  the 
bread  or  upon  the  water,  there  should  be  silence,  a  real  stillness,  all  eyes 
ought  to  be  closed,  all  heads  ought  to  be  bowed,  all  hearts  filled  with  the 
prayerful  spirit.  These  appeals  are  not  to  be  made  by  one  individual, 
they  should  be  the  hope,  the  faith,  the  united  appeal  of  all  who  are  present. 
And  if  in  every  heart  there  burns  an  earnest  hope  for  Providence  to  hear, 
and  for  the  united  appeal  to  be  answered,  then  every  pair  of  lips  should 
express  the  fervent  feeling  of  each  and  every  heart  by  saying,  Amen 
when  the  prayer  is  finished. 

SPEAKERS  WITH  NO  MESSAGE 

There  are  some  who  complain  that  our  worshiping  assemblies,  our 
sacrament  meetings,  are  dry,  that  speakers  often  stand  before  our  audi- 
ences "who  have  no  message."  Some  insist  they  can  learn  more  by 
remaining  at  home  and  devoting  themselves  to  literature  than  by  attend- 
ing church,  where,  they  say,  certainly  at  times,  uninteresting  and  un- 
profitable sermons  are  preached. 


52 


•  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


AN  UNFAILING  LESSON 

I  believe  the  doctrine  taught  in  my  presence  long  ago  by  one  of  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church  to  the  effect  that  no  human  lips  can 
preach,  no  human  lips  can  teach  a  more  important,  a  more  impressive 
or  a  more  effective  lesson  than  can  be  learned  by  those  who  attend  the 
humblest  sacrament  meeting  and  there  partake  worthily  of  the  sacrament 
of  the  Lord's  Supper. 

PRAYERFUL  REFLECTION 

Those  impressive  moments,  and  particularly  those  during  which  the 
blessings  on  the  sacrament  are  asked,  should  be  times  of  deep  and  sacred 
and  prayerful  reflection.  Such  occasions  are  opportunities  for  wrong- 
doers to  come  into' close  communion  with  the  spirit  and  power  of  our 
Heavenly  Father.  With  eyes  closed,  with  prayerful  hearts,  with  re- 
pentant spirit,  genuine  worshipers  examine  their  own  lives,  their  own 
conduct,  they  review  their  actions  during  the  week  past,  they  think  of 
the  unkind  words  they  have  spoken,  of  their  unfair  dealings,  etc.  Thus, 
with  a  humble,  a  repentant,  a  sorrowful  spirit,  the  man  of  weakness,  the 
wrong  doer,  in  his  heart  may  say:  "Father  in  Heaven,  during  the  past 
week  I  have  so  far  forgotten  myself  as  to  be  unkind  to  my  wife  ;  I  spoke 
sharply  to  my  daughter;  I  lost  my  temper  and  struck  my  son;  I  dealt 
unjustly  with  my  neighbor.    Father,  I  am  a  sinner,  forgive  me." 

REPENTANT  SPIRIT 

He  who  thus  has  the  sorrowful,  the  repentant  spirit,  he  who  thus 
humbly  forsakes  his  wrong-doing  and  sins  no  more  shall  have  his  sins 
so  thoroughly  forgiven  that  they  will  not  only  be  completely  blotted  out 
of  the  book  of  remembrance  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  but  they  will  be  so 
genuinely  forgiven  that  even  the  sinner  himself  will  forget.  The  strong, 
the  satisfying  teaching  of  the  scripture,  one  of  the  fundamentals  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  applies  in  such  a  case,  for  the  scripture  says, 
"Though  your  sins  be  as  scarlet,  they  shall  be  as  white  as  snow ;  though 
they  be  red  like  crimson,  they  shall  be  as  wool."  (Isaiah  1  :18.) 

ACTUAL  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Those  who  are  actually  Latter-day  Saints,  those  who  are  genuine 
Christians,  those  who  thus  pray  and  fast,  those  who  remember  the  Sabbath 
day  to  keep  it  holy,  those  who  appeal  earnestly  for  divine  guidance  as 
did  the  Prophet  Joseph,  and  as  did  our  early  and  distinguished  statesmen 
and  patriots,  will  have  faith  in  the  Gospel  message  delivered  by  Paul  in 
the  following  words :  "Ye  ought  to  support  the  weak,  and  to  remember 
the  words  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  how  he  said,  It  is  more  blessed  to  give  than 
to  receive."  (Acts  20:35)  What  the  nation  needs  under  our  present 
economic  conditions  is  to  have  the  souls  of  the  citizens  of  the  country 
touched  by  the  divine  spark,  the  divine  testimony  which  brings  into  the 
hearts  of  men  a  realization  of  that  great  fundamental,  that  unselfish 
Christian  truth  that  it  is  more  blessed  to  give  than  to  receive.  The  need 
of  the  nation  and  of  the  world  is  compliance  with  the  teaching  in  the 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


53 


impressive,  sacred  words  read  by  the  Prophet  in  his  boyhood :  "If  any 
of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men  liberally, 
and  upbraideth  not;  and  it  shall  be  given  him."  (James  1 :5) 

CONSUMER  MUST  BE  ABLE  TO  PURCHASE 

The  present  unsatisfactory  financial  conditions  can  only  be  eliminated 
by  the  application  of  this  fundamental  religious  truth,  by  the  unselfish- 
ness of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  by  getting  into  the  hands  of  the  con- 
sumer in  some  way  or  other  an  ample,  or  at  least  a  reasonable  amount  of 
purchasing  power.  It  is  not  what  a  nation  produces,  it  is  what  the  nation 
consumes  that  brings  prosperity.  In  our  mechanical  age  only  approxi- 
mately half  of  the  laboring  people  of  our  nation  need  to  be  employed  in 
order  to  produce  all  the  manufactured  and  other  products  the  people  of 
the  country  can  reasonably  consume.  This  was  demonstrated  during 
the  World  War  when  a  large  percentage  of  our  population  was  engaged 
either  in  the  army  or  in  the  manufacture  of  munitions  of  war.  if  half 
of  the  people  working  eight  hours  per  day  can  produce  as  much  as  all 
the  people  can  reasonably  consume,  and  further  since  prosperity  can 
return  only  after  purchasing  power  is  placed  in  the  hands  of  consumers, 
then  the  man  who  with  average  ability  applies  himself  with  reasonable 
effort  to  profitable  employment  for  four  hours  a  day  ought  to  be  given 
for  said  service  enough  purchasing  power  to  enable  him  to  provide  for 
himself  and  for  his  family  not  only  the  necessities  of  life,  but  many  of 
life's  comforts  and  perhaps  some  of  the  luxuries  of  our  modern,  sanitary, 
intellectual  and  religious  life.  Until  all  of  the  consumers  in  every  part 
of  the  land  are  by  some  method  or  other  provided  with  a  reasonable 
amount  of  purchasing  power,  prosperity  under  the  most  desirable  con- 
ditions cannot  return.  When  this  greatly  needed,  this  most  happy  con- 
dition prevails,  when  the  great  masses  are  provided  with  a  reasonable 
amount  of  purchasing  power,  then  and  not  until  then  will  poverty  be 
banished  from  our  beloved  nation. 

It  is  said  that  machinery  is  producing  so  much  and  with  such  effi- 
ciency that  a  rayon  f  actor)-  in  New  Jersey  is  to  be  built  in  which  only 
one  man  will  be  employed.  Unless  consumers  are  provided  with  pur- 
chasing power  there  can  be  no  market  for  the  products  of  this  novel, 
remarkable  and  in  fact  desirable  institution.  Why,  with  men's  hands, 
should  work  be  done  which  machinery  can  perform  ? 

WEALTH  DESTROYING  ITSELF 

It  is  reported  that  in  the  year  1930  one  of  our  great  manufacturers 
received  in  dividends  for  himself,  for  his  wife  and  for  his  son  $44,000,000. 
How  can  this  automobile  king  expect  to  dispose  of  his  product  if  he  and 
other  leading  manufacturers  are  going  to  collect  in  dividends  and  thus 
hoard  and  keep  out  of  circulation  such  tremendous  quantities  of  piled 
up  wealth  ?'  Dividends,  profits,  or  certainly  a  large  percentage  of  these, 
must  be  put  into  the  hands  of  the  consumer,  thus  providing  him  with 
purchasing  power  or  evidently  there  can  be  little  or  no  market  for  manu- 
factured or  other  products.  When  our  leading  business  men  learn  this 
fact  and  live  in  accordance  with  the  lesson  it  ought  to  teach,  namely,  that 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


all  of  the  cash  of  the  country,  the  purchasing  power  of  the  nation,  should 
be  kept  circulating,  we  shall  have  a  prosperity  the  like  of  which  the  world 
has  as  yet  not  known,  and  we  shall  then  be  practising  the  unselfishness,  the 
perfection  of  the  teachings  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

COMING  OF  INCREASED  PROSPERITY 

If  that  $44,000,000  and  the  fabulous  dividends  and  profits  other 
business  men  have  received  and  hoarded  had  been  divided  with  the 
people  whose  labor  helped  to  make  these  great  fortunes  possible,  if 
these  great  stores  of  wealth  had  been  divided  with  members  of  the  ex- 
tensive sales  organizations  which  reach  into  every  part  of  our  country, 
if  this  wealth  which  is  actually  the  purchasing  power  of  the  nation  had, 
by  some  means  or  other,  been  distributed  among  those  who  are  con- 
sumers, then  the  markets  everywhere  would  not  only  have  remained 
good,  they  would  have  continued  all  the  time  to  improve,  prices  would 
have  been  maintained,  factories  would  have  operated  at  full  capacity  and 
prosperity  would  have  gone  on  continuously  with  ever-increasing  mo- 
mentum. All  that  has  been  lacking  is  practising  the  simple,  unselfish 
principles  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Master. 

UNPRECEDENTED  PROSPERITY 

Does  it  not  seem  that  the  great  manufacturers,  the  business  men  of 
the  land  have,  by  selfishly  accumulating,  by  hoarding,  by  withdrawing 
from  circulation  these  great  mountains  of  piled-up  wealth,  have  been 
following  a  suicidal  policy  ?  Are  they  not  more  or  less  devoid  of  that 
Christian  spirit  which  teaches  that  we  ought  to  support  the  weak,  that 
we  ought  to  remember  that  it  is  more  blessed  to  give  than  to  receive  ? 

Many  of  our  men  of  wealth  are  piling  up  great  fortunes  that  they 
must  give  away,  that  they  must  distribute,  wealth  they  must  divide  with 
others,  if  they  provide  consumers  with  the  power  to  purchase,  which 
power  the  people  must  possess  before  prosperity  can  return.  Distribut- 
ing thus  this  accumulated  power  to  buy  will  with  certainty  bring  our 
great  nation  into  unprecedented  prosperity. 

SOLUTION  FOR  WORLD'S  ILLS 

Do  you  not  see  therefore  that  the  solution  to  the  ills  of  the  world 
is  religion,  unselfishness?  The  need  of  the  country  is  Christianity. 
We  must  be  unselfish  enough  to  support  the  weak  and  to  remember  to 
practise  the  words  of  the  Lord  Jesus  when  he  said.  Tt  is  more  blessed 
to  give  than  to  receive. 

RELIGION  THE  SOLUTION 

The  cure  for  our  ills,  I  say  again,  is  religion.  The  outstanding  need 
of  the  hour  is  the  unselfishness  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Men  must 
learn  to  love  one  another.  I  pray  for  that  day  when  every  man  shall 
know  every  other  man  for  every  man's  name  will  be  brother.  Under 
such  conditions  we  shall  unitedly  support  the  weak,  and  all  will  live  in 
accordance  with  the  words  of  the  Master.    Every  knee  will  bow  and 


ELDER  CHARLES  E.  ROWAN,  JR. 


55 


every  tongue  confess  that  jesus  is  the  Christ  and  all  the  world  will 
know  that  if  those  who  lack  wisdom  will  ask  of  God  it  shall  be  given 
unto  them.  May  this  happy  day  come  soon  I  pray,  through  Jesus  Christ, 
our  Lord.  Amen. 

Mrs.  Florence  Erickson  sang  a  sacred  solo,  "Hosanna." 

ELDER  CHARLES  E.  ROWAN,  JR. 

President  of  the  Texas  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  many  years  ago,  as  a  young  man  I 
went  out  with  a  group  of  men  hunting.  After  the  first  day's  hunt 
there  were  many  funny  experiences  told.  One  of  them  was  this : 
Two  of  the  hunters  were  together,  two  large,  fine  deer  were  jumped, 
and  one  of  the  men  when  he  got  through  had  all  of  his  cartridges 
by  the  side  of  him,  none  having  been  fired.  He  had  buck  fever, 
ft  seems  that  when  I  stand  in  this  pulpit  I  become  nervous — I  can- 
not help  it — and  after  it  is  all  over  I  wonder  if  my  cartridges  are 
not  lying  on  the  floor  and  nothing  said. 

I  bow  my  head  with  gratitude  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for 
membership  in  this  Church  and  for  the  opportunity  I  have  had  of 
coming  here  and  partaking  of  the  splendid  spirit  and  listening  to 
the  words  of  inspiration  as  they  have  fallen  from  the  lips  of  these 
divine  oracles  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  I  thank  him  for  the  oppor- 
tunity that  has  come  to  me  to  serve  in  his  great  Church.  I  thank 
him  for  the  privilege  I  have  of  laboring  as  a  missionary  in  the 
Texas  Mission,  for  my  association  with  your  sons  and  daughters 
and  with  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  Texas  Mission  who  I  say 
to  you  have  found  God.  Hundreds  of  them  bear  solemn  testimony 
that  they  have  accepted  the  challenge  of  Jesus  Christ  and  have 
determined  positively  that  this  is  his  work. 

As  I  listen  to  the  testimonies  of  those  missionaries,  those  fine 
men  who  have  been  clothed  with  the  holy  priesthood  of  Almighty 
God,  and  those  young  sisters  who  have  been  divinely  appointed  to 
minister  among  the  children  of  men,  I  am  filled  with  joy  and 
gratitude  to  my  Heavenly  Father.  I  feel  to  pay  a  tribute  here  today 
to  the  youth  of  Zion. 

When  President  Grant  yesterday  morning  in  that  wonderful 
address  of  his,  speaking  with  reference  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
mentioned  the  fact  that  great  blessings  would  come  from  observing 
it,  I  was  reminded  of  an  experience  that  had  come  to  my  attention. 
There  was  recently  baptized  into  the  Church  in  the  Texas  Mission 
a  woman  of  distinction  and  prominence,  a  widow.  At  the  time  of 
her  husband's  death  he  was  president  of  five  banks.  She  has  always 
been  a  devout  woman  in  one  of  the  popular  churches.  She  made  a 
trip  throughout  the  West  and  came  to  the  city  of  Salt  Lake  with  one 
of  her  sons  who  was  a  university  student.  She  stopped  at  one  of 
the  tourist  camps  here,  and  one  of  the  local  missionaries  called 
at  the  camp  and  gave  her  some  literature  and  invited  her  to  come 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  the  Temple  Block.  Thanks  be  to  the  fine  missionaries  on  the 
Temple  Block,  they  appealed  to  her,  they  sold  her  some  literature, 
and  she  started  reading  the  Book  of  Mormon.  She  said  she  found 
it  to  be  rather  dry,  but  she  could  not  get  out  of  her  mind  the  picture 
of  the  faces  of  these  ,boys  and  girls  who  had  been  born  under  the 
covenant,  who  had  been  reared  by  fathers  and  mothers  who  had 
kept  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  they  who  themselves  were  keeping- 
it.  She  said :  "They  are  the  most  beautiful  young  people  I  have 
ever  seen.  I  could  not  get  interested  in  the  book,  but  as  I  went 
on  through  the  West  into  California,  into  Los  Angeles  and  other 
great  cities,  I  began  comparing  these  children  with  other  children." 
She  said  to  her  son:  "Surely  a  religion  that  can  produce  such 
fine  young  men  and  women  as  the  Latter-day  Saint  religion  pro- 
duces must  have  something  of  value  in  it." 

She  wrote  a  letter  to  President  Grant  and  sent  fifteen  dollars 
as  a  contribution  to  further  the  work  of  Mormonism.  President 
Grant  sent  me  the  letter  with  a  request  thatT  call  on  her  or  have 
one  of  the  missionaries  do  so.  I  had  the  district  president  call  on 
her,  and  he  spent  some  time  with  her  and  gave  her  some  literature. 
She  studied  it  scientifically,  systematically  and  prayerfully,  and  in 
due  time  became  thoroughly  convinced  that  Mormonism  is  divine. 
I  say,  a  fruit  of  Mormonism  as  depicted  by  the  best  crop  in  the 
Church,  the  boys  and  girls  who  are  living  lives  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

One  of  the  Elders  called  on  this  good  woman  to  baptize  her. 
A  man  came  to  her  home  while  the  missionary  was  there,  seeking 
charity.  She  gave  hundreds  of  dollars  to  charity.  She  made  him 
a  contribution,  and  then  followed  him  out  wanting  to  see  who  had 
brought  him  to  her  home.  A  minister  of  her  church,  but  not  of  her 
city,  was  in  the  car.  She  introduced  herself  to  him  and  said.  "I 
am  going  to  join  the  Mormon  Church ;  I  am  going  to  be  baptized." 
He  said :  "Woman,  you  are  crazy.  You  do  not  mean  it,  you  cannot 
mean  it."  And  he  told  her  more  than  that.  He  said :  "You  are 
going  to  hell." 

She  said  to  him:  "Brother,  I  am  earnest  and  sincere  in  this. 
I  have  made  a  serious  study  of  Mormonism.  I  have  been  in  Salt 
Lake  City  and  other  cities  where  the  Latter-day  Saints  dwell,  and 
I  have  found  them  to  be  honest,  God-fearing  people,  men  and 
women  who  are  happy  in  their  homes.  Heaven  is  in  their  homes. 
I  believe  that  I  am  doing  the  proper  thing.  Will  you  come  in 
and  show  me  where  they  are  wrong?" 

He  started  to  get  out  of  the  car,  and  she  said  to  him  :  "There 
is  a  young  Elder  here  now  ready  to  baptize  me.  He  is  a  fine 
young  man,  a  real  Christian  boy,  and  I  am  sure  if  you  can  convince 
him  that  Mormonism  is  what  you  say  it  is  and  that  he  is  going  to 
hell  he  will  go  back  to  his  Christian  parents." 

The  minister  immediately  became  busy  and  said :  "I  am  sorry, 
sister,  but  I  cannot  go  in."    He  no  doubt  had  met  Elders  before. 

That  experience  irritated  the  woman  just  a  little,  so  she  im- 


ELDER  CHARLES  E.  ROWAN,  JR. 


57 


mediately  entered  the  house,  called  her  own  pastor,  to  whom  she 
had  given  hundreds  of  dollars,  and  told  him  what  she  intended  to  do. 
To  her  surprise  this  preacher  very  nearly  duplicated  the  words  that 
the  other  minister  had  uttered.  She  invited  him  to  her  house  and 
he  was  coming  until  he  learned  that  the  missionary  was  there. 

Thus  they  let  one  of  their  best  members  go  "straight  to  hell'' 
without  coming  to  put  her  on  the  right  track.  She  is  happy  in  the 
Church  and  sends  in  her  tithing  every  month  regularly.  She  is 
preaching  the  Gospel  to  the  bankers,  the  lawyers,  and  everyone 
with  whom  she  comes  in  contact,  and  primarily  this  Gospel  was 
brought  to  her  attention  because  of  the  fine  happy  faces  of  our 
youth. 

I  am  delighted  to  be  engaged  in  this  great  work.  I  am  delighted 
to  report  that  our  missionaries  are  well  and  happy ;  that  they  have 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  with  them.  I  hope  and  trust  that  we  will 
be  able  to  carry  on  this  great  work.  We  are  utilizing  as  far  as  pos- 
sible the  local  people  and  because  of  this  I  find  a  better  feeling 
everywhere.  The  Saints  are  more  united  than  they  have  ever 
been  before  in  the  history  of  the  mission.  Opportunities  are 
greater  for  presenting  the  Gospel,  and  our  people  in  the  main  are 
happy. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  to  you 
who  have  sons  and  daughters  in  the  Texas  Mission  I  say  they  are 
all  well.  So  far  as  I  know  they  are  all  enjoying  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,  and  best  of  all,  I  have  heard  each  one  of  them  certify  in 
words  of  soberness  that  he  knows  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  living  God ;  and  they 
all  revere  and  reverence  these  men  whom  we  sustain  as  prophets, 
seers  and  revelators,  as  do  I. 

May  God  bless  us  all  that  we  may  always  live  and  do  that 
which  is  right,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

1  sincerely  hope  and  pray  that  I  may  enjoy  the  favor  of  the  Lord 
while  I  stand  before  you  for  a  few  moments  during  this  session  of  the 
Conference.  I  am  greatly  impressed  when  I  think  of  the  present  con- 
dition of  the  world,  when  I  contemplate  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  and 
realize  that  in  these  last  days  the  Lord  has  set  his  hand  to  do  a  marvelous 
work  and  a  wonder  among  the  children  of  men.  In  the  establishment  of 
his  Church  he  has  chosen  men  to  be  witnesses  for  him.  He  has  restored 
the  priesthood  and  endowed  men  with  power  from  on  high.  He  has 
commissioned  them  to  go  into  all  the  world  and  preach  the  Gospel  to 
every  creature. 

What  a  gigantic  undertaking,  when  we  think  that  this  Gospel  of 
the  kingdom  must  be  preached  in  all  the  world  as  a  witness  before  the 
end  shall  come,  and  what  a  responsibility  rests  upon  this  great  Church 
which  God  has  established.    Men  and  women  everywhere  must  be 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


called  to  repentance  and  an  opportunity  must  be  given  unto  them  to 
accept  the  message  of  life  and  salvation  which  God  is  sending  forth 
through  his  messengers  into  all  parts  of  the  world.  It  almost  looks  like 
an  impossibility,  and  so  far  as  human  effort  is  concerned  it  is  impossible. 
Only  by  the  aid  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  by  such  instrumentalities  as 
he  may  bring  about,  would  such  an  undertaking  be  possible. 

We  live  in  an  age  of  great  invention  and  discovery.  Means  are 
being  revealed  by  which  the  word  of  the  Lord  may  be  conveyed  unto 
his  children  in  the  remotest  parts  of  the  earth.  The  prophets  of  old  have 
foreseen  conditions  as  they  exist  today.  The  prophet  Isaiah  said  upon 
one  occasion : 

"The  earth  also  is  defiled  under  the  inhabitants  thereof;  because  they  have 
transgressed  the  laws,  changed  the  ordinance,  broken  the  everlasting  covenant." 

That  is  a  condition  that  still  prevails  in  the  world  to  a  very  large 
extent.  The  work  of  the  Lord  is  to  overcome  this  condition  for  it  is  his 
purpose  that  sin  and  iniquity  shall  be  banished  from  the  face  of  the  earth 
and  that  it  shall  be  sanctified  from  all  unrighteousness,  that  it  may  be 
prepared  for  the  celestial  glory  which  is  the  destiny  of  this  earth  upon 
which  we  dwell.  How  'can  this  reformation  be  effected,  or  what  shall 
be  the  method  of  doing  it  ?  The  Lord  employs  and  always  has  employed 
at  least  two  separate  methods.  One  of  them  is  based  upon  fear  and  the 
other  one  is  based  upon  love.  The  Lord  has  given  commandments  many, 
and  disobedience  to  them  brings  punishment  and  penalty.  In  these  mat- 
ters the  element  of  fear  is  brought  to  bear,  but  he  has  also  made  wonderful 
promises  unto  those  who  render  obedience  to  the  will  of  the  Lord,  not 
so  much  out  of  the  sense  of  fear  of  the  consequences,  but  with  the  love 
of  God  in  their  hearts  and  the  desire  to  be  in  harmony  with  him.  One 
we  may  call  the  lesser  law  and  the  other  the  higher  law.  In  ancient 
Israel  this  lesser  law  was  particularly  brought  in  vogue  upon  the  children 
of  Israel.  Great  commandments  were  given  and  punishments  were  in- 
voked upon  those  who  were  disobedient ;  the  wages  of  sin  were  death,  and 
great  judgments  were  poured  out  upon  evil  doers. 

The  children  of  Israel,  during  their  four  hundred  years  of  bondage 
in  the  land  of  Egypt,  became  so  contaminated  in  Egyptian  idolatry  that 
they  were  unprepared  for  the  higher  law  and  therefore  were  given  the 
lesser  law  "as  a  school  master  to  bring  us  to  Christ."  In  both  the  higher 
and  the  lesser  law,  however,  obedience  to  the  commandments  is  required 
— the  difference  lies  in  the  impelling  motive.  If  we  obey  the  command- 
ments because  of  the  fear  of  the  dire  consequences — the  prescribed  penal- 
ties and  punishments — very  well,  we  shall  receive  our  reward.  We  shall 
escape  the  judgments.  But  if  we  live  above  this  lesser  law  rendering 
obedience  to  his  commandments  in  our  unbounded  love  for  God  and  our 
fellowmen,  then  we  also  shall  escape  the  judgments,  but  what  is  of  far 
greater  importance,  we  shall  also  receive  eternal  life  or  salvation  in  his 
celestial  kingdom. 

With  every  dispensation,  however,  the  Lord  has  employed  both 
methods,  and  he  has  sought  to  win  through  love  those  who  were  willing 
to  hearken  unto  his  will.  The  introduction  of  this  Gospel  in  the  day  and 
age  in  which  we  live  was  foreseen  by  the  beloved  Apostle  John  upon  the 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


59 


Isle  of  Patmos  when  he  saw  the  angel  flying  through  the  midst  of  heaven 
having  the  everlasting  Gospel  to  proclaim  unto  every  nation,  kindred, 
tongue  and  people,  crying  with  a  loud  voice,  "Fear  God  and  give  glory 
to  him  for  the  hour  of  his  judgment  is  come."  In  this  we  find  the  Lord 
employing  in  his  mercy  the  element  of  fear,  saying  unto  the  inhabitants 
of  the  earth  that  the  hour  of  his  judgment  is  at  hand.  Must  we  despise 
the  element  of  fear?  Not  so,  it  is  a  great  motive — the  fear  of  the  Lord 
is  the  beginning  of  wisdom.  It  is  a  good  thing,  a  wholesome  thing,  to 
fear  the  consequences  of  doing  evil.  We  must  not  despise  it,  and  yet 
there  is  a  higher  law,  a  higher  motive — that  of  love.  Both  are  employed 
by  the  Lord  in  every  dispensation  of  his  providence. 

Through  obedience  to  the  lesser  law,  the  law  of  carnal  command- 
ments, with  all  of  its  punishments  and  penalties,  we  escape  the  judg- 
ments ;  through  compliance  with  the  higher  law,  the  law  of  love,  the  law 
of  grace,  we  obtain  eternal  life. 

"For  by  grace  are  ye  saved  through  faith ;  and  that  not  of  yourselves ;  it  is 
the  gift  of  God.    Not  of  works,  lest  any  man  should  boast." 

Oh,  how  idle  it  would  be  for  any  man  to  think  that  he  can  earn  so 
great  a  reward  as  eternal  life  in  the  presence  of  God,  which  means  the 
power  of  endless  increase  and  a  never  ending  dominion  that  shall  flow 
unto  us  forever  and  forever !  The  Lord  knows  full  well,  and  we  know  it, 
that  no  human  being  is  capable  of  earning  such  a  high  reward.  A  great 
many  men  in  the  secular  affairs  of  life  obtain  various  kinds  of  incomes. 
We  segregate  them,  we  classify  them  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  our 
income  taxes.  We  refer  to  the  one  as  "earned  incomes,"  and  the  other 
as  "excess  incomes."  No  man  can  earn  a  million  dollars  a  year,  and 
so  our  congress  and  our  legislators  take  cognizance  of  the  fact  of  what 
men  may  earn,  and  they  deal  more  liberally  with  such  incomes,  but 
on  the  other  they  make  greater  requirements. 

And  so  it  is.  No  man  can  earn  eternal  life,  which  is  God's  greatest 
gift  to  man.  It  is  a  free  gift  from  God.  But  to  whom  does  he  grant  that 
precious  gift?  Not  to  those  who  merely  obey  his  commandments  because 
they  fear  the  consequences  3  Oh,  no,  but  to  those  that  love  him. 

"Blessed  is  the  man  [or  the  woman]  that  endureth  temptation:  for  when  he 
is  tried  he  shall  receive  the  crown  of  life,  [of  eternal  life]  which  the  Lord  hath 
promised  to  them  that  love  him."  (James  1 :12.) 

And  again  we  read : 

"Eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard,  neither  have  entered  into  the  heart  of 
man,  the  things  which  God  hath  prepared  for  them  that  love  him."  (I  Cor.  2 :9.) 

In  ancient  Israel  both  methods  were  applied,  but  the  Church  in  its 
organized  condition  was  charged  with  the  administration  of  the  lesser 
law  and  its  enforcement  by  executing  its  penalties  and  punishments.  In 
these  latter  days  this  lesser  law  is  relegated  to  our  civil  authorities.  The 
Church  does  not  undertake  the  enforcement  of  penal  law  any  more 
than  by  withdrawing  fellowship  from  malefactors. 

"No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long  suffering,  by  gentleness  and  meekness, 
and  by  love  unfeigned." 

This  is  the  higher  law.  Civil  authorities  enforce  the  lesser  law. 
Is  that  not  also  essential  ?  Most  assuredly  yes.  Is  there  anyone  who 
would  like  to  see  the  civil  law  done  away  with?  Our  whole  system  of 
jurisprudence  is  based  upon  the  law  of  fear,  and  penalties  are  prescribed 
according  to  the  gravity  of  the  offense.  Penitentiaries  and  prisons  are 
built  for  their  punishment,  and  the  hangman's  noose  and  the  electric 
chair  are  prescribed  for  those  who  are  guilty  of  capital  offenses.  Such 
is  the  need  of  these  things  and  they  are  all  essential  for  the  welfare  of 
mankind. 

The  great  work  of  the  Lord  is  to  carry  the  glad  tidings  to  every 
nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people,  and  to  try  to  bring  into  the  fold 
of  Christ  all  who  are  willing  to  abide  by  the  laws  of  God.  That  is  the 
work  of  saving  human  souls.  What  a  great  undertaking  that  is !  What 
a  tremendous  work!  How  hopeless  it  would  be  from  any  human  point 
of  view!  How  grateful  then  we  ought  to  be  that  we  have  been  made 
participants  in  this  great  work,  this  great  Gospel  which  has  within  it  the 
power  of  God  unto  our  salvation.  How  grateful  we  ought  to  be  that 
we  have  become  members  of  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God,  that  we 
have  part  in  that  divine  power  and  influence  that  enables  us  to  go  on 
to  perfection. 

The  Lord  has  admonished  us,  "lie  ye  therefore  perfect,  as  your 
Father- in  heaven  is  perfect."  Those  who  have  embraced  the  Gospel 
should  endeavor  to  so  live  that  they  may  grow  in  the  knowledge  of  God 
and  good  works  and  that  they  may  become  better  men  and  better  women 
day  by  day.  Do  we  suppose  that  we  are  already  prepared  for  the  celestial 
glory?  I  hope  we  are  all  making  progress  toward  that  perfection  that 
God  will  require  when  we  enter  into  his  celestial  kingdom.  If  we  are 
to  become  members  of  that  kingdom  we  shall  have  to  sanctify  ourselves 
from  all  unrighteousness.  Isaiah  told  us  that  the  world  was  defiled 
under  its  inhabitants.  This  world  must  become  sanctified  under  its 
inhabitants.  Will  all  men  receive  the  Gospel  by  which  they  can  become 
sanctified?  What  is  a  sanctified  person?  A  holy  being,  one  who  has 
been  sanctified  from  all  unrighteousness  is  a  saint.  The  Lord  has  per- 
mitted 11s  to  be  called  saints.  Are  we  that?  The  Gospel  provides  the 
means  whereby  we  may  become  that.  Let  us  abide  that  law  and  endeavor 
from  time  to  time  to  sanctify  our  souls  from  all  unrighteousness,  for  we 
may  rest  assured  that  the  destiny  of  this  earth,  is  to  be  sanctified  from  all 
unrighteousness,  therefore  it  must  be  under  the  inhabitants  thereof.  But 
all  will  not  accept  of  that  Gospel.  Then  what  is  to  become  the  lot  of  the 
remainder  who  will  not  become  sanctified  and  be  prepared  for  the  celestial 
glory?  They  shall  be  utterly  destroyed  from  the  face  of  the  earth,  the 
prophet  told  us.  What  will  become  of  them  in  the  great  hereafter?  I 
shall  not  attempt  to  say.  But  this  earth  is  to  be  sanctified  and  receive 
its  paradisaical  glory  and  become  a  habitation  for  sanctified  beings,  a  fit 
place  for  God  and  his  Son  to  dwell  among  us  and  where  we  may  enjoy 
their  companionship  throughout  the  ages  of  eternity. 

Then  let  us  love  the  Lord  with  all  our  heart  and  may  his  grace  be 
unto  you  and  me,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


61 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  rejoice  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  opportunity  to 
attend  this  conference  and  to  partake  of  the  spirit  of  this  and  all  meetings 
that  have  preceded  it.  I  rejoice  that  I  am  in  the  enjoyment  of  health 
and  strength,  and  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  generally  are  in  good  health. 
I  really  thought  last  night  that  I  should  not  be  able  to  attend  conference 
today.  I  was  taken  rather  suddenly  with  all  the  symptoms  of  influenza 
and  at  two  o'clock  this  morning  I  was  in  such  a  condition  that  I  thought 
it  would  be  impossible  to  be  here  today.  But  I  am  happy  to  say  that  I  was 
able  to  overcome  that  condition  entirely  and  am  feeling  happy  and  in 
sound  health. 

APPRECIATION  OF  LOYALTY  AND  COOPERATION 

I  appreciate  the  privileges  that  have  been  extended  to  me  in  this 
Church.  My  great  desire  is  to  promote  every  interest  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  to  the  best  of  my  ability  and  particularly 
those  matters  that  are  entrusted  to  my  care.  I  am  sure  that  is  the  spirit 
and  the  feeling  of  all  that  are  engaged  in  this  work  and  have  the  spirit 
of  it.  I  am  happy  to  sustain  those  two  able  and  devoted  men  who  have 
been  appointed  and  sustained  at  this  conference  as  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church,  as  I  sustain  all  of  the  General  Authorities.  In  like  man- 
ner I  sustain  all  of  the  presiding  officers  of  the  stakes,  the  wards,  and 
the  missions,  and  I  appreciate  the  splendid  cooperation  that  we  have 
from  the  stake  presidencies,  ward  bishoprics  and  mission  presidents  with 
our  office,  in  all  of  the  temporal  affairs  of  the  Church. 

NATION-WIDE  BROADCASTS  OF  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN 

I  would  like  to  call  your  attention  also  to  the  splendid  service  that 
is  being  rendered  by  the  tabernacle  choir,  by  the  members  of  the  choir, 
by  the  director  and  by  the  organists.  Do  you  realize  the  fact  that  this 
choir  is  not  only  singing  with  us  in  our  regular  meetings  in  the  taber- 
nacle on  Sundays  and  during  General  Conferences,  but  that  every  Sun- 
day morning  all  the  members  of  the  choir  meet  and  give  a  nation-wide 
broadcast  that  is  carried  over  about  sixty  radio  stations  throughput 
the  United  States  as  well  as  by  short  wave  to  other  countries ;  that 
millions  of  people  are  listening  every  Sunday  morning  to  this  broadcast ; 
that  it  is  giving  wonderful  publicity  to  this  city  and  state  and  is  making 
the  people  of  this  nation  better  acquainted  with  the  fact  that  this  Church 
stands  for  culture  and  fine  music?  These  members  are  not  only  giving 
that  service  on  Sunday  morning  but  they  are  also  giving  voluntary 
service  in  the  preparation  of  these  songs ;  and  the  director  and  the 
organists,  of  course,  in  like  manner  are  bending  every  effort  toward 
preparation  of  the  music  for  these  broadcasts ;  because  it  requires  largely 
the  preparation  and  presentation  of  new  music  from  Sunday  to  Sunday. 
These  broadcasts  have  become  so  popular  that  now  the  Columbia  Broad- 
casting System,  through  whose  network  these  programs  are  being  pre- 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


sented,  has  requested  that  the  choir  produce  an  hour's  program  every 
Sunday  instead  of  a  half  hour  as  heretofore. 

CHARACTER  EDUCATION  IN  THE  HOME 

There  are  some  things  that  I  would  like  to  discuss  briefly  this  morn- 
ing as  time  may  permit.  I  was  greatly  impressed  with  the  wonderful 
discourse  given  by  President  Grant  with  regard  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
My  only  regret  is  that  so  many  of  the  young  people  to  whom  this  should 
be  presented  were  engaged  in  school  work  at  the  time  it  was  presented 
and  did  not  have  the  opportunity  of  hearing  it. 

I  think  that  there  never  was  a  time  when  there  was  so  much  temp- 
tation and  so  many  allurements  for  the  young  people  in  the  way  of 
developing  habits  contrary  to  the  spirit  and  the  teaching  of  the  Word 
of  Wisdom  as  at  the  present  time.  I  realize  the  fact  that  we  cannot 
get  away  from  these  allurements  and  temptations.  Advertisements  are 
being  presented  in  the  most  insidious  way  to  draw  people  everywhere, 
young  women  as  well  as  young  men,  to  do  those  things  which  are  con- 
trary to  the  instructions  given  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  We  cannot 
escape  those  things.  We  cannot  shelter  our  young  people  from  seeing 
and  hearing  and  reading  these  advertisements.  How  then  can  we  help 
them  to  overcome  and  enable  them  to  resist  temptation?!  They  are 
bound  to  meet  it  wherever  they  go.  It  seems  to  me  that  there  are  no 
means  so  potent  as  that  of  character  education  in  the  homes  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  whereby  parents  teach  their  children  the  speciousness  of  the 
advertisements  presented  for  increased  sales  of  tobacco  and  of  other 
things  that  we  know  are  not  for  our  welfare.  It  seems  to  me  that  it  is 
incumbent  primarily  on  the  parents,  not  particularly  to  preach  to  chil- 
dren, but  to  advise  and  counsel  with  them  and  to  inquire  of  them  as  to 
their  feelings  and  of  the  temptations  that  will  come  to  them,  in  a  kindly 
parental  way,  endeavoring  to  show  to  them  the  mistaken  and  false  stater 
ments  made  in  such  advertisements. 

RESISTANCE  TO  TEMPTATION 

I  am  sure  that  if  we  as  parents  generally  throughout  the  Church  will 
give  the  attention  needed  to  correct  any  wrong  impressions  on  the  part 
of  our  children,  whether  they  be  young  or  mature,  we  should  be  able  to 
help  them  to  form  correct  conclusions  and  establish  themselves  in  ability 
to  resist  these  temptations  that  will  come  to  them  in  life.  If  we  will  take 
the  time  to  sit  down  with  them  and  reason  and  discuss  with  them,  not 
with  any  too  great  formality,  but  in  kindness  and  consideration,  I  am 
sure  it  will  be  helpful  to  them  in  overcoming  these  things  that  they  are 
bound  to  meet  with  in  every  walk  of  life  in  all  their  contacts  and  ex- 
periences. 

CHURCH  RELIEF  WORK  FOLLOWING  EARTHQUAKE 

I  would  like  to  call  your  attention  to  two  or  three  items  that  are  of 
rather  great  interest  to  me  and  I  believe  they  are  to  you.  One  of  them 
is  with  regard  to  the  earthquake  that  recently  occurred  in  California. 
I  would  like  to  read  to  you  a  portion  of  a  letter  received  from  a  coun- 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


63 


selor  in  the  Bishopric  of  Long  Beach  Ward,  which  was  the  center  of 
the  earthquake  and  where  the  greatest  damage  was  done : 

"Immediately  after  the  first  shock,  which  was  the  only  one  which  caused  any 
loss  of  life,  except  another  this  morning  which,  I  am  advised,  caused  the  death 
of  two  elderly  people  who  were  caught  in  an  apartment,  we,  together  with  the 
Relief  Society,  began  to  make  a  canvass,  and  up  to  noon  Saturday  had  only  found 
two  of  our  people  injured  and  none  dead.  One  brother  was  cut  on  his  arm  and 
one  sister  with  several  broken  ribs.    However,  they  are  getting  along  fine. 

"Yesterday  we  had  Radio  Station  KFOX  broadcast  messages  instructing  all 
of  our  eighty-four  Ward  teachers  in  42  districts  to  immediately  cover  their 
respective  districts ;  many  had  done  so  up  to  late  last  night  and  so  far  no  additional 
reports  of  sick  or  injured  other  than  our  ordinary  calls  from  week  to  week. 
Relief  Society  President  Julia  Hawkins  this  morning  advises  all  calls  to  them  have 
been  taken  care  of. 

"The  church  building  seems  to  be  but  slightly  damaged.  Several  broken 
windows,  some  plaster  off  in  the  main  auditorium  and  walls  slightly  cracked 
and  chipped,  but  seems  to  be  resting  well  on  foundation  and  not  out  of  line. 
We  are  arranging  to  have  the  city  engineer  make  inspection  today,  and  of  course 
cannot  advise  definitely  until  after  that. 

"Many  of  the  other  churches  in  down-town  districts  are  totally  destroyed, 
and  a  majority  of  the  others  have  been  moved  at  least  a  foot  off  their  foundation 
and  will  have  to  be  torn  down." 

Here  is  a  letter  along  the  same  line  from  President  LeGrand 
Richards : 

"We  are  very  pleased  to  advise  that  none  of  our  people  was  injured  and 
that  no  property  damage  has  occurred  to  either  our  Church  buildings  or  personal 
property  of  our  members  so  far  as  we  have  been  able  to  ascertain. 

"The  Bishop  of  Alhambra  Ward  advises  that  the  two  inspectors  who  were 
sent  to  inspect  their  building  reported  it  to  be  the  best  constructed  brick  building 
in  Alhambra.  We  were  in  the  Hollywood  Stake  tabernacle  when  it  rocked  back 
and  forth  like  a  drunken  man  but  there  were  no  cracks  or  other  damage  resulting 
therefrom." 

DIVINITY  OF  CHURCH  ORGANIZATION 

One  of  the  remarkable  things  about  these  reports  is  that  such  an 
organization  obtains  in  the  Church  whereby  the  bishopric  of  a  ward, 
the  members  of  which  were  scattered  throughout  a  large  population, 
were  able  to  get  their  ward  teachers  and  their  Relief  Society  teachers  to 
do  work  immediately  in  checking  up  on  the  members  of  the  ward  to  see 
that  none  was  suffering  from  physical  injuries  or  from  other  troubles 
or  difficulties.  That  to  me  is  a  very  remarkable  testimony  of  the  thor- 
oughness and  effectiveness  of  the  Church  organization,  and  the  fine 
results  that  are  obtainable  through  the  whole-hearted  voluntary  coopera- 
tion of  all  those  who  carry  responsibility  in  the  Church. 

INCREASE  IN  CHURCH  ACTIVITY  AND  GROWTH 

In  addition  to  the  figures  given  yesterday  morning  relative  to  the 
progress  of  the  Church,  I  would  like  to  call  your  attention  to  some  other 
things.  There  has  been  an  increase  in  general  activity  in  the  wards  and 
stakes  during  the  past  year  as  compared  with,  the  previous  year.  There 
is  quite  a  marked  increase  in  the  amount  of  ward  teaching  done  generally 
throughout  all  the  various  wards  of  the  Church.    There  has  been  an 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


increase  in  the  attendance  at  sacrament  meetings  as  compared  with  193 1 . 
There  has  been  an  increase  in  attendance  at  the  weekly  priesthood  meet- 
ings.   These  are  important  items. 

The  Lord  has  declared  by  revelation  the  sacrament  meetings  to 
be  of  great  importance  for  the  teaching  and  training  of  the  members  of 
the  Church  in  faith  and  righteousness.  The  ward  teaching  is  the  most 
effective  and  potent  means  of  coming  in  contact  with  all  the  members 
of  the  Church  month  by  month,  of  teaching  them  to  live  in  peace  and 
harmony,  to  live  the  Gospel  and  to  be  united  as  families  and  to  overcome 
weaknesses  and  shortcomings. 

We  have  had  letters  come  to  our  office  recently  from  a  number  of 
places,  among  them  from  ministers  asking  about  our  ward  teaching  sys- 
tem. They  have  understood  that  we  were  having  very  great  success.  It 
was  a  new  idea  to  them  and  they  have  requested  us  to  give  them  informa- 
tion upon  which  our  system  is  based  and  how  it  is  being  carried  out. 

CHURCH  AND  PRIESTHOOD  GROWTH 

Of  the  total  number  of  converts  baptized  last  year,  amounting  to 
7825,  as  shown  in  the  report  presented  by  President  Grant  in  the  opening 
session  of  Conference,  there  was  for  the  first  time,  I  think,  a  larger 
number  of  converts  baptized  in  the  various  stakes  and  wards  than  in  the 
missions.  Baptisms  of  converts  in  the  stakes  and  wards  amounted  to 
4009  and  in  the  missions  to  3816.  Another  item  of  interest,  I  think,  is 
the  number  of  those  who  have  received  the  priesthood  as  compared  with 
the  previous  year.  The  total  increase  in  the  Melchizedek  and  Aaronic 
priesthood  throughout  the  Church  was  7433,  of  which  there  were  2875 
members  of  the  Melchizedek  priesthood  and  4558  members  of  the  Aaronic 
priesthood.  The  total  membership  in  the  priesthood,  that  is,  the  Mel- 
chizedek and  Aaronic  priesthood,  at  the  end  of  last  year,  was  171,474. 
a  tremendous  army  of  picked  men  to  battle  for  righteousness  in  the 
Church  and  in  the  world  for  the  presentation  of  the  Gospel  message  to 
mankind,  and  the  promotion  of  faith  and  good  works  among  the  members. 

PRIESTHOOD  SIGNIFIES  ACTIVITY 

I  am  sure  we  realize  the  fact  that  with  the  ordination  of  these  young 
men — I  am  speaking  particularly  of  the  Aaronic  priesthood — it  is  ex- 
pected that  every  one  who  shall  be  ordained  and  every  one  who  has  been 
ordained  shall  be  given  specific  duties  to  perform  week  by  week;  that 
they  shall  not  only  be  appointed  to  perform  duties  pertaining  to  their 
calling  and  labors  in  the  priesthood  but  that  these  appointments  shall 
be  followed  up  and  these  young  men  be  brought  to  realize  the  fact  that 
the  giving  of  responsibility  requires  the  fulfilment  of  that  responsibility. 
It  is  the  finest  means  of  preparation  and  training  for  future  accounta- 
bility. It  trains  them  to  magnify  their  callings,  to  be  willing  to  fill  their 
appointments  and  to  carry  out  those  things  that  are  expected  of  them. 

FULFILMENT  OF  RESPONSIBILITY 

The  statement  is  made  by  Owen  D.  Young,  one  of  the  great  in- 
dustrialists of  the  country,  that  there  is  too  much  lack  of  leadership 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


65 


among"  American  business  men  and  unwillingness  to  take  leadership. 
He  states  the  reason  is  they  are  not  ready  to  accept  and  fill  the  responsi- 
bilities that  follow  and  are  a  part  of  leadership.  I  think  that  one  of  the 
vital  means  we  have  in  the  Church  to  produce  the  finest  development  in 
young  men  is  through  effective  training  of  all  members  of  the  priesthood 
to  accept  responsibility  and  fulfil  it,  not  only  in  the  Church,  but  in  the 
field  of  life  and  the  various  occupations  and  civic  responsibilities  that  may 
come  to  them. 

EXPENDITURE  OF  TITHES 

I  think  you  will  realize  from  the  statement  made  of  the  expenditure 
of  the  tithes  that  the  tithes  are  used  entirely  for  the  various  purposes 
which  were  enumerated  yesterday,  and  that  great  care  is  being  given  by 
those  who  have  the  responsibility  of  the  same — the  First  Presidency  and 
those  who  are  associated  with  them — in  expending  these  means  as  care- 
fully and  efficiently  as  possible,  to  the  end  that  they  may  be  most  effect- 
ively distributed.  The  tithes  that  are  donated  by  the  members  of  this 
Church  are  serving  to  advance  God's  purposes  in  being  used  for  the 
widest  benefit  of  the  Church  members  as  a  whole,  and,  through  mis- 
sionary work,  for  the  benefit  of  the  world. 

The  Church  is  doing  a  remarkable  work  in  the  preaching  of  the 
Gospel.  The  members  of  the  Church  are  giving  of  their  time  and  their 
means  extensively  without  stint  for  the  promotion  of  the  Gospel  message 
among  mankind  at  large.  They  are  engaged  in  doing  work  for  those  who 
have  passed  away,  through  the  vicarious  service  that  is  being  done  in  the 
temples.  Altogether  there  is  great  evidence  of  unselfishness  on  the  part 
of  Latter-day  Saints  in  what  they  are  doing  in  a  financial  way,  as  well 
as  through  their  direct  efforts  for  the  promotion  of  the  welfare  of 
mankind  at  large. 

TITHING  AND  TITHEPAYERS 

Due  to  the  adverse  financial  conditions,  there  has  been  a  decrease  of 
tithes  paid  last  year  as  compared  with  1931.  There  has  also  been  a 
decrease  in  the  number  of  tithepayers.  This  is  not  so  easy  to  explain: 
While  it  is  true  that  many  have  been  out  of  employment,  it  would  appear 
that  those  who  were  not  working  and  those  who  suffered  losses  during 
the  year,  could  at  least  have  donated  to  some  extent,  no  matter  how  small, 
to  be  properly  recorded.  However,  it  is  remarkable  how  splendidly  the 
Latter-day  Saints  have  demonstrated  their  faith  and  devotion  to  this  and 
other  divine  principles.  And  such  faith  produces  blessings.  I  would 
like  to  read  to  you  briefly  a  statement  made  by  President  Hyrum  Jensen 
of  the  Norwegian  Mission  that  conforms  in  general  to  the  statements 
made  heretofore  by  other  mission  presidents.  In  this  letter,  in  telling 
of  the  very  unfavorable  economic  conditions  in  Norway,  he  states :  "I 
feel  that  the  Saints  are  trying  to  do  their  duty  in  the  matter  of  tithing, 
but  we  are  feeling  the  depression  more  and  more  as  the  days  go  by.  It 
is  reported  from  the  different  branches  of  the  mission  that  no  full  tithe- 
payers  have  lost  their  jobs."  It  is  a  rather  interesting  thing  to  me  that  , 
in  the  midst  of  distress  which  exists  in  that  land  he  can  make  such  a 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


report  regarding  those  who  have  been  faithful  in  the  performance  of 
their  duties  in  the  observance  of  this  important  principle. 

EFFICIENCY  IN  CHURCH  BUILDING  CONSTRUCTION 

With  regard  to  the  manner  of  building  construction  in  California: 
We  expect  henceforth,  and  it  has  been  evident  in  the  building  construc- 
tion of  Church  edifices  there  in  the  past,  to  do  those  things  that  will 
promote  protection  of  the  buildings  against  earthquakes.  In  other  words, 
to  design  and  construct  the  buildings  which  shall  be  erected  in  the 
future  in  those  localities  so  that  they  will  be  able  to  withstand  earth- 
quake shocks.  As  you  realize,  the  great  danger  comes  in  earthquake 
sections  from  the  damage  to  buildings  and  the  falling  of  materials  which 
causes  injury  and  sometimes  death  to  people. 

Further,  the  Church  is  doing  everything  possible  in  the  building 
construction  that  is  being  undertaken,  to  exercise  the  greatest  economy 
and  care  in  the  erection  of  these  buildings,  designing  them  to  fit  the  needs 
of  the  people  and  yet  not  build  extravagantly.  The  result  has  been  that 
through  the  work  being  done  largely  by  contract  rather  than  day  work, 
as  had  been  done  previously,  avoiding  extravagances  in  buildings,  and 
through  saving  in  costs  of  materials  and  labor,  very  material  savings 
have  been  effected  both  to  the  members  of  the  various  wards  concerned 
and  to  the  Church  at  large.  Altogether  we  find  that  within  the  last  two 
years  approximately  forty  percent  has  been  saved  in  the  costs  as  com- 
pared with  previous  outlay.  The  extent  of  the  work  done  has,  of  course, 
been  much  less  than  it  was  previously. 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  progress  of  this  work. 
I  know  and  realize  as  you  do  that  it  is  growing,  and  that  there  is  a  power 
within  it  that  is  not  to  be  obtained  in  any  other  organization.  I  pray  the 
Lord  to  bless  and  help  every  one  of  us  to  give  ourselves  wholeheartedly 
to  the  advancement  of  the  work  of  God.  I  desire  to  dedicate  myself  to 
that  end  and  to  work  with  you  and  all  the  members  of  this  Church  in 
unity  and  faith  and  righteousness  to  build  up  this  cause ;  and  I  pray  the 
Lord  to  bless  us  in  our  efforts,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a 
Prophet." 

Elder  John  A.  Elison,  President  of  the  Raft  River  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer,  after  which  the  Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


SECOND  DAY 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  continued  in  the  Tabernacle  at  2  o'clock. 

Music  for  this  session  was  provided  by  the  "Singing  Mothers," 
Mrs.  Charlotte  O.  Sackett,  Director.  They  sang  as  an  opening  number 
the  hymn,  "Come,  thou  glorious  day  of  promise." 

Elder  Joseph  E.  Cardon,  President  of  the  Cache  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 

The  "Singing  Mothers"  then  sang  the  hymn,  "O  My  Father." 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  trust  that  the  few  moments  I  occupy  this  afternoon  I  may  have 
an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers,  that  the  Lord  will  bless  me  to  say 
the  things  he  would  have  you  hear.  I  have  nothing  particular  on  my 
mind,  that  I  would  like  to  speak  about,  other  than  to  call  attention,  if 
I  may,  to  the  marvelous  blessings  that  our  Heavenly  Father  has  bestowed 
upon  the  children  of  men  in  the  day  and  age  in  which  we  live. 

THE  INFLUENCE  OF  THE  ADVERSARY 

This  earth  was  prepared  for  us,  created  for  the  habitation  of  the 
children  of  men,  and  from  the  time  that  our  first  parents  were  placed 
upon  it,  down  to  the  present,  the  Creator  of  heaven  and  earth,  our 
Heavenly  Father,  has  continued  to  entreat  his  sons  and  daughters  to  so 
live  that  they  might  be  worthy  to  dwell  with  him  eternally.  But  when 
we  scan  the  history  of  mankind  we  realize  that  the  other  influence  that 
is  potent  in  the  earth,  that  of  the  adversary  of  all  righteousness,  has  been 
able  to  deceive  many  of  the  children  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  and  has 
prevented  them  from  obtaining  the  blessings  that  the  Lord  desired  them 
to  enjoy. 

EXPERIENCES  RELATED  IN  THE  OLD  TESTAMENT 

We  read  in  the  Old  Testament  that  in  the  days  of  Noah  that  prophet 
taught  the  people  for  a  hundred  and  twenty  years  to  be  righteous,  and 
they  failed  to  take  advantage  of  their  opportunities.  The  result  was 
that  after  they  had  been  sufficiently  warned  they  suffered  the  punishment 
that  had  been  impending  for  refusing  to  obey  the  counsel  of  the  Lord 
imparted  by  a  prophet. 

Then  we  remember  how  later,  when  the  children  of  Israel  were 
led  into  the  wilderness  by  Moses,  although  they  were  surrounded  by 
the  arms  of  love  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  so  to  speak — he  fed  them 
manna  from  heaven ;  the  rock  of  Horeb  was  cleft  in  order  that  they 
might  have  living  water;  he  gave  unto  them  that  sure  witness  of  a 
cloud  by  day  and  a  pillar  of  fire  by  night ;  they  were  led  by  a  prophet 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  Lord — and  yet  there  were  large  numbers  of  them,  even  under 
that  influence,  who  absolutely  refused  to  observe  the  teachings  of  our 
Heavenly  Father,  failed  to  take  advantage  of  his  wise  counsels,  and  the 
result  was  they  did  not  have  the  opportunity  of  even  seeing  the  promised 
land. 

THE  WORK  OF  THE  SAVIOR 

Then  we  have  the  case  of  the  Savior.  He  came  and  gave  to  the 
children  of  men  the  Gospel  in  its  purity.  He  came  to  prepare  the  way 
for  all  mankind  to  be  resurrected  and  exalted,  not  only  those  who  were 
then  living,  but  those  who  had  died ;  that  they  might  be  raised  from  the 
dead,  and  an  opportunity  be  offered  to  them  to  find  a  place  in  the  celestial 
kingdom.  Read  the  history  of  Israel  at  the  time  of  the  Savior,  and  see 
how  few  there  were,  comparatively,  that  really  understood,  that  were 
able  to  measure  up  and  be  prepared  to  receive  the  marvelous  heritage 
that  our  Heavenly  Father  has  promised. 

AS  RELATED  IN  THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON 

Then  we  have  the  experiences  of  Jared  and  his  colony,  and  of 
Lehi  and  his  descendants,  who  crossed  the  mighty  ocean,  and  came  to 
the  western  hemisphere,  led  by  prophets.  Many  of  them  obeyed  the 
wise  counsels  of  the  men  the  Lord  raised  up  to  lead  them,  but  a  greater 
number  were  led  astray  by  Satan  and  forfeited  their  heritage. 

It  seems  that  all  the  time,  notwithstanding  the  Lord  has  been  tender 
and  thoughtful  of  his  children,  the  adversary  has  had  such  an  influence 
over  them  the  majority  of  them  have  been  turned  aside  from  the  choice 
place,  from  the  opportunity  of  attaining  the  celestial  kingdom,  and  they 
will  find  their  places  in  the  terrestrial  kingdom  or  the  telestial  kingdom ; 
and  nobody  to  blame  but  themselves. 

Is  it  not  remarkable,  when  we  think  about  it,  that  that  has  been 
the  experience  of  the  people  during  various  periods  of  the  world's 
history.  I  have  only  mentioned  some  of  the  notable  instances,  but  since 
the  peopling  of  the  earth  the  adversary  of  righteousness  has  been  able, 
by  means  of  sophistry,  by  veiled  suggestions  and  delusions,  by  appealing 
to  the  selfishness  of  men,  to  lead  from  the  path  of  rectitude  and  right 
the  majority  of  mankind. 

IN  THIS  DISPENSATION 

Remembering  the  record  of  the  past  let  us  consider  the  present. 
In  our  day  our  Heavenly  Father  has  restored  the  Gospel  again.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  gave  his  life,  as  did  his  brother  Hyrum,  to  testify 
that  the  Lord  had  spoken ;  and  the  Church  was  organized  under  his 
direction,  and  divine  authority  was  conferred.  From  that  time  until 
now  the  prophets  and  servants  of  the  Lord  have  been  teaching  the, 
people  righteousness.  And  yet  today  we  find  history  repeating  itself, 
and  there  are  many  of  our  brothers  and  sisters  who  have  their  names 
upon  the  records  of  the  Church  who,  unless  they  repent  of  their  sins, 
will  find  themselves  cut  off,  as  the  Lord  has  said,  from  the  opportunity 
of  enjoying  the  celestial  kingdom  when  this  earth  becomes  that  kingdom. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


69 


In  order  that  we  may  be  properly  taught  the  Lord  set  apart  the 
Sabbath,  on  which  day  he  has  advised  his  people  to  attend  divine  service, 
to  partake  of  the  sacrament  and  receive  instructions.  We  meet  together 
in  quarterly  conference  in  all  the  stakes ;  we  meet  together  in  general 
conference  twice  a  year;  and  we  unite  our  hearts,  our  voices  and  our 
faith  to  the  end  that  we  may  have  our  spiritual  strength  renewed  and 
that  we  may  have  joy  in  contemplating  what  the  Lord  has  said  to  us. 
We  are  surrounded  by  the  temptations  of  the  world,  so  that  if  we  are 
not  on  our  guard  we  are  influenced  by  them,  and  if  we  are  not  careful 
we  may  step  aside  from  the  pathway  that  the  Lord  has  pointed  out.  If 
we  do  that,  then  we  have  no  promise  of  exaltation. 

HOUSES  MUST  BE  SET  IN  ORDER 

Every  human  being,  not  only  those  in  the  ranks  but  the  leaders  of 
ancient  Israel  and  the  leaders  of  modern-day  Israel — even  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  himself  and  his  associates — were  admonished  by  our 
Heavenly  Father,  and  attention  was  called  to  the  fact  that  it  was  neces- 
sary for  them  to  set  their  houses  in  order ;  they  were  warned  that  unless 
they  did  that,  unless  their  families  gave  heed  to  the  teachings  of  the 
Gospel,  they  would  lose  their  opportunity.  That  brings  it  right  close 
to  home,  does  it  not — right  into  our  own  day  ?  Let  us  read  a  portion  of 
Section  93  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  : 

"Behold,  here  is  the  agency  of  man,  and  here  is  the  condemnation  of  man; 
because  that  which  was  from  the  beginning  is  plainly  manifest  unto  them,  and  they 
receive  not  the  light. 

"And  every  man  whose  spirit  receiveth  not  the  light  is  under  condemnation. 

"For  man  is  spirit.  The  elements  are  eternal,  and  spirit  and  element,  in- 
separably connected,  receive  a  fulness  of  joy; 

"And  when  separated,  man  cannot  receive  a  fulness  of  joy. 

"The  elements  are  the  tabernacle  of  God ;  yea,  man  is  the  tabernacle  of  God, 
even  temples ;  and  whatsoever  temple  is  defiled,  God  shall  destroy  that  temple. 
"The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence,  or,  in  other  words,  light  and  truth. 
"Light  and  truth  forsake  that  evil  one. 

"Every  spirit  of  man  was  innocent  in  the  beginning ;  and  God  having  redeemed 
man  from  the  fall,  men  became  again,  in  their  infant  state,  innocent  before  God. 

"And  that  wicked  one  cometh  and  taketh  away  light  and  truth,  through  dis- 
obedience, from  the  children  of  men,  and  because  of  the  tradition  of  their  fathers. 

"But  I  have  commanded  you  to  bring  up  your  children  in  light  and  truth. 

"But  verily  I  say  unto  you,  my  servant  Frederick  G.  Williams,  you  have  con- 
tinued under  this  condemnation; 

"You  have  not  taught  your  children  light  and  truth,  according  to  the  command- 
ments ;  and  that  wicked  one  hath  power,  as  yet,  over  you,  and  this  is  the  cause 
of  your  affliction. 

"And  now  a  commandment  I  give  unto  you — if  you  will  be  delivered  you  shall 
set  in  order  your  own  house,  for  there  are  many  things  that  are  not  right  in  your 
house. 

"Verily,  I  say  unto  my  servant  Sidney  Rigdon,  that  in  some  things  he  hath  not 
kept  the  commandments  concerning  his  children;  therefore,  first  set  in  order 
thy  house. 

"Verily,  I  say  unto  my  servant  Joseph  Smith,  Tun.,  or  in  other  words,  I  will  call 
you  friends,  for  you  are  my  friends,  and  ye  shall  have  an  inheritance  with  me — 

"I  called  you  servants  for  the  world's  sake,  and  ye  are  their  servants  for  my 
sake — 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"And  now,  verily  I  say  unto  Joseph  Smith,  Jun. — You  have  not  kept  the 
commandments,  and  must  needs  stand  rebuked  before  the  Lord ; 

"Your  family  must  needs  repent  and  forsake  some  things,  and  give  more  earnest 
heed  unto  your  sayings,  or  be  removed  out  of  their  place. 

"What  I  say  unto  one  I  say  unto  all ;  pray  always  lest  that  wicked  one  have 
power  in  you,  and  remove  you  out  of  your  place."    (Sec.  93:31-49.) 

Isn't  it  unfortunate  that  men  who  received  marvelous  manifestations 
from  the  Lord,  who  knew  the  truth,  were  not  able  to  resist  the  tempta- 
tions of  the  adversary,  and  many  of  the  blessings  that  they  might  have 
enjoyed  were  lost  to  them  ?  We  today  are  subject  to  the  same  influences 
but  we  should  profit  by  the  experiences  of  the  past. 

BECAUSE  OF  VANITY  AND  UNBELIEF 

In  order  to  avoid  misquoting  I  desire  to  read  a  portion  of  one  of 
the  sections  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  in  which  the  Lord,  speaking 
to  the  Church  in  that  early  day,  called  attention  to  some  things.  He  said 
this: 

"And  the  whole  world  lieth  in  sin,  and  groaneth  under  darkness  and  under 
the  bondage  of  sin.  *  *  * 

"And  your  minds  in  times  past  have  been  darkened  because  of  unbelief,  and 
because  you  have  treated  lightly  the  things  you  have  received."    (Sec.  84:49,  54.) 

Let  me  read  that  again,  speaking  to  those  early-day  members  of 
the  Church : 

"And  your  minds  in  times  past  have  been  darkened  because  of  unbelief, 
and  because  you  have  treated  lightly  the  things  you  have  received — " 

That  explains  why  we  do  not  always  understand.  That  explains 
why  we  fall  into  transgression — because  of  unbelief  and  because  we 
have  treated  lightly  the  things  we  have  received. 

"Which  vanity  and  unbelief  have  brought  the  whole  church  under  condemna- 
tion. 

"And  this  condemnation  resteth  upon  the  children  of  Zion,  even  all."  (Ibid. 
55-56.) 

NEGLECTING  OUR  OPPORTUNITIES 

When  we  think  of  the  date  of  that  revelation,  September  22,  1832, 
how  early  it  was,  we  realize  that  the  Church  had  hardly  been  organized 
before  the  Lord  began  to  call  the  attention  of  his  children  to  the  fact 
that  they  were  losing  their  opportunities. 

And  then  he  said  further: 

"And  as  I  said  unto  mine  apostles,  even  so  I  say  unto  you,  for  you  are  mine 
apostles,  even  God's  high  priests;  ye  are  they  whom  my  Father  hath  given  me;  ye 
are  my  friends ; 

"Therefore,  as  I  said  unto  mine  apostles  I  say  unto  you  again,  that  every  soul 
who  believeth  on  your  words,  and  is  baptized  by  water  for  the  remission  of  sins, 
shall,  receive  the  Holy  Ghost. 

"And  these  signs  shall  follow  them  that  believe,"  and  so  forth.    (Ibid.  63-65.) 

I  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  Gospel  was  restored  a  little  over 
a  hundred  years  ago,  and  hundreds  of  thousands  of  people  have  par- 
ticipated in  it.   All  this  time  the  adversary  has  been  seeking  to  thwart  the 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


71 


purposes  of  the  Lord  and  to  take  from  the  children  of  men  the  oppor- 
tunity that  is  theirs. 

Let  us  examine  ourselves.  We  are  living  in  a  marvelous  time. 
The  conveniences  and  opportunities  in  the  world  were  never  so  plentiful 
as  today.  Never  such  an  opportunity  to  enjoy  the  comforts  and  blessings 
of  our  Heavenly  Father  as  now.  Yet  the  world  has  transgressed  the 
laws  of  God.  They  have  violated  his  commandments.  I  am  speaking 
particularly  now  of  the  Ten  Commandments.  I  will  not  take  time  to 
repeat  them.  You  know  what  they  are.  But  they  are  being  ignored 
by  a  very  large  portion  of  our  Father's  children.  They  are  being 
ignored  by  some  of  those  whose  names  are  upon  the  records  of  this 
Church,  and  the  result  will  be  that  the  opportunity  to  find,  a  place  in  the 
celestial  kingdom  will  be  taken  from  them,  unless  they  repent  of  their 
sins  and  turn  unto  our  Heavenly  Father.  Righteousness  has  never  been 
popular  with  the  masses.  The  popular  thing  is  often  the  wrong  thing. 
That  a  thing  is  popular  is  frequently  justification  for  the  Latter-day 
Saints  to  avoid  it. 

GOD  WILL  NOT  BE  MOCKED 

We  are  living  in  a  period  of  time  when  upheavals  in  the  world  are 
daily,  almost  momentary.  Marvelous  things  are  occurring.  The  map 
of  the  world  is  changing.  The  order  of  government  is  being  modified. 
In  our  own  nation  we  are  almost  helpless  before  the  problems  that  con- 
front us,  notwithstanding  we  are  probably  the  wealthiest  and  most  pow- 
erful nation  in  all  the  world.  What  is  our  difficulty,  brethren  and  sisters  ? 
It  is  that  men  refuse  to  hear  what  the  Lord  has  said.  They  refuse  to 
pay  attention  to  his  wise  counsel.  They  absolutely  neglect  to  give 
credence  to  the  things  that  he  teaches  us,  and  he  will  not  be  mocked. 
He  gives  us  the  advice  and  the  counsel  that  we  need,  but  he  will  not 
compel  us.  But  if  we  refuse  we  lose  our  opportunity,  and  it  passes  away 
from  us,  in  many  cases  to  return  again  no  more  forever. 

PARENTS  MUST  SAFEGUARD  THEIR  CHILDREN 

This  is  a  marvelous  organization  with  which  we  are  identified, 
these  great  groups — the  organizations  of  the  priesthood  and  the  auxil- 
iary groups  in  the  stakes  and  wards  and  mission  fields — in  which  there  are 
faithful  servants  of  the  Lord,  both  men  and  women,  seeking  to  improve 
the  condition  of  the  world ;  and  I  realize  how  they  are  resisted  many 
times  by  those  who  ought  to  hold  up  their  hands,  and  objection  is  made 
to  the  teachings  that  are  given  because  they  are  not  popular,  notwith- 
standing they  are  the  Lord's  teachings. 

We  may  just  as  well  confront  the  fact  that  unless  we,  as  parents  in 
Zion,  safeguard  our  children  by  teaching  them,  and  by  surrounding  them 
by  the  arms  of  our  love,  unless  we  safeguard  them  by  every  possible 
means,  the  adversary  will  break  down  the  barriers  that  are  raised  by  the 
organizations  that  protect  them,  and  those  that  we  love  more  than  we 
love  our  own  lives  will  be  drawn  away  from  the  truth;  they  will  lose 
their  faith;  they  will  fall  into  transgression;  and  then  we,  the  parents 
in  Zion,  will  have  occasion  for  sorrow,  not  only  now  but  throughout 
the  ages  of  eternity. 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Brethren  and  sisters,  these  are  perilous  times.  These  are  the  days 
that  the  Lord  has  spoken  of.  I  turn  again  to  the  first  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  read  from  a  revelation  given  in  1831 : 

"For  I  am  no  respecter  of  persons,  and  will  that  all  men  shall  know  that  the 
day  speedily  cometh ;  the  hour  is  not  yet,  but  is  nigh  at  hand,  when  peace  shall  be 
taken  from  the  earth,  and  the  devil  shall  have  power  over  his  own  dominion." 

We  have  been  warned,  brethren  and  sisters,  not  once  but  many 
times.  There  will  be  no  excuse  for  us  if  we  fail  to  do  our  part.  As  one 
of  those  whom  the  Lord  has  asked  to  teach,  I  plead  with  you  to  set  your 
houses  in  order.  Don't  take  too  many  things  for  granted.  Don't  be  led 
into  the  follies  and  foibles  of  the  world.  Safeguard  your  families  in 
every  possible  way.  Unite  them  under  the  influence  of  prayer.  I 
thought  this  morning  when  one  of  the  speakers  said :  "Did  you  pray  last 
night?  Did  you  pray  this  morning?"  what  a  power  prayer  is  to  keep 
us  in  the  pathway  to  eternal  life  and  lead  us  into  the  celestial  kingdom ! 

OUR  RESPONSIBILITY 

Nobody  else  can  perform  the  part  that  God  has  assigned  to  us  as 
parents.  We  have  assumed  an  obligation  when  we  have  been  the  means 
of  bringing  children  into  the  world.  We  can't  place  that  responsibility 
upon  any  organization.  It  is  ours.  We  can  gain  their  assistance,  and  it 
is  marvelous  the  assistance  that  is  rendered  by  these  great  groups  in  the 
Church ;  but  first  and  foremost  the  obligation  is  upon  you  and  upon  me 
to  not  only  advise  and  counsel  but  to  train,  by  setting  an  example,  by 
spending  sufficient  time  with  our  loved  ones,  these  boys  and  girls,  that 
they  may  not  be  led  into  by  and  forbidden  paths. 

VICE  AND   EVIL   MUST  BE  RESTRAINED 

Only  a  few  days  ago  a  man,  a  member  of  the  Church,  who  was  in 
my  office,  said : 

"As  I  sat  in  my  own  home  a  few  evenings  ago  I  was  horrified  to  hear  the  things 
that  my  own  children  and  those  who  were  visiting  in  my  home  were  saying."  He 
said :  "One  of  the  young  ladies,  only  a  girl,  said  to  the  others :  'I  am  going  to 
learn  how  to  drink  this  new  beer,  when  it  conies  in.  They  say  it  isn't  just  the  same 
as  the  near  beer  that  we  have  been  having ;  it  doesn't  taste  the  same.  1  am  going  to 
learn  to  drink  it,  because  it  will  be  popular.  Everybody  will  want  to  know  how 
to  do  that.' " 

What  does  that  mean?  It  means  that  if  we  let  down  the  least  bit 
in  the  effort  that  we  have  put  forth  to  hold  up  the  standard  that  God  has 
created  for  us,  we  are  responsible  to  him.  I  want  to  say  that  every  voter 
in  this  Church,  every  legislator  in  this  Church,  every  civil  officer  in  this 
Church,  is  not  only  bound  by  the  laws  of  the  land  in  which  we  live,  to 
sustain  constitutional  law,  but  we  are  bound  by  the  moral  law  and  by 
the  advice  and  counsel  that  our  Heavenly  Father  has  given,  to  do  every- 
thing possible  to  restrain  vice  and  evil  in  the  communities  in  which  we 
live.  If  we  fail  to  do  that  we  can  blame  nobody  but  ourselves  for  the 
evil  results. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


73 


HOLDING  ALOFT  THE  BANNER  OF  RIGHTEOUSNESS 

I  pray  that  during  the  continuation  of  this  great  conference  we 
may  have  joy  and  satisfaction  in  the  things  that  are  said,  as  we  have 
had  in  the  meetings  that  have  passed.  I  pray  that  we  may  go  hence, 
when  the  work  of  the  conference  has  finished,  feeling  renewed  in  our 
power  to  serve  God ;  that  we  may  go  to  our  abiding  places  determined 
to  be  worthy  to  be  called  sons  and  daughters  of  the  living  God ;  that  we 
may  not  say,  because  a  thing  is  popular,  that  we  will  cast  our  lot  with 
this  group  or  that.  But  standing  upon  holy  ground,  because  of  the 
righteousness  of  our  lives,  may  we  hold  aloft  the  banner  that  the  Lord 
has  given  us  to  hold,  bidding  all  men  join  us  in  the  works  of  righteous- 
ness, preparing  this  earth  to  be  the  celestial  kingdom,  preparing  those 
who  dwell  upon  it  even  now  to  be  worthy  to  be  members  of  it;  that 
when  the  time  comes  for  us  to  go  hence,  those  with  whom  we  associate 
may  be  truly  able  to  say  that  because  of  the  righteousness  of  our  lives 
we  have  influenced  them  to  be  better  men  and  better  women. 

ONE  IN  ALL  THINGS 

I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  living  God.  I  know  that  this  is 
his  Church,  led  by  his  chosen  servants,  and  his  divine  authority  is  de- 
posited with  it.  I  know  it  as  I  know  that  I  live.  With  that  knowledge 
in  my  soul  I  pray  that  weak  and  frail  though  I  am  I  may  continue 
to  keep  the  faith,  that  I  may  continue  to  be  worthy  of  your  confidence, 
that  we  may  live  together  in  the  bonds  of  love  and  unity  and  faith  and 
devotion,  keeping  in  mind  this  statement  that  has  come  to  us  from  on 
high:  ''Unless  ye  are  one  ye  are  not  mine." 

Let  us  be  one  in  all  good  things,  helping  and  sustaining  that  which 
is  righteous,  encouraging  that  which  will  make  for  better  citizens  of  the 
kingdom  of  heaven,  as  well  as  citizens  of  the  land  in  which  we  live, 
that  when  the  light  shall  go  out  of  our  eyes  and  we  finish  our  work  we 
may  look  back  upon  lives  that  have  been  consecrated  to  the  blessing 
of  mankind,  and  receive  at  the  hands  of  the  Master  of  heaven  and  earth 
that  glorious  welcome  home : 

Well  done,  good  and  faithful  servant.  You  have  been  faithful  in  a  few 
things.  I  will  make  you  ruler  over  many  things.  Enter  into  the  joy  of  your 
Lord. 

I  humbly  pray  for  this  for  all,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord, 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters  :  The  thought  of  facing  this  great  audience 
here,  and  the  further  thought  of  facing  that  greater  audience  who  are 
on  the  air,  is  almost  sufficient  to  sweep  one  off  of  his  feet.  From  where 
you  are  sitting  it  looks  like  a  very  simple  matter,  but  from  where  I  am 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


standing  it  appears  quite  difficult,  and  I  must  needs  rely  upon  the  Lord 
for  his  assistance  in  these  important  moments. 

I  have  no  prepared  discourse  this  afternoon.  It  is  true  that  I  have 
had  some  reflections  pass  through  my  mind,  and  I  am  trusting  the  Lord 
to  help  me  give  expression  to  them. 

EXPERIENCES  DURING  THE  EARTHQUAKE  IN   LOS  ANGELES 

I  will  say  here,  before  I  proceed  further,  a  word  in  relation  to  the 
great  earthquake  at  Los  Angeles,  in  California.  I  was  talking  with  a 
good  brother  yesterday,  who  said  to  me  that  he  with  three  of  his  children 
was  on  the  street  at  the  time,  and  they  were  about  to  enter  a  store  in 
order  to  make  some  purchases.  But  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  whispered 
to  him  and  said :  "Do  not  go  in  there.  Go  home."  This  good  brother, 
perhaps  not  being  entirely  certain  that  it  was  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord, 
made  another  effort  to  enter  the  building,  and  turned  his  car  toward  the 
sidewalk  curb.  Some  unusual  power  straightened  his  car  out  parallel 
with  the  street  and  said:  "Do  not  go  in  there.  Go  home."  lie  gave 
heed  to  this  voice  of  warning,  .and  started  for  his  home,  lie  hadn't 
gone  far  before  the  earthquake  came,  and  some  twenty-three  people 
lost  their  lives  in  the  vicinity  of  that  spot  where  he  endeavored  to  enter 
the  store.  Due  to  this  warning  his  life  and  the  lives  of  his  children 
were  saved.  He  also  said  to  me  that  the  Latter-day  Saint  woman  who 
lost  her  life  had  a  similar  warning,  but  she  failed  somehow  to  give  heed 
to  it. 

THE  EVERLASTING,  UNCHANGEABLE  GOSPEL 

The  brethren  who  speak  from  this  stand  very  often  cross  one  an- 
other's tracks.  This  is  not  to  be  wondered  at  when  we  remember  that 
we  have  been  preaching  the  everlasting,  unchangeable  (iospel  for  one 
hundred  years.  If  we  shall  go  on  for  another  hundred  years — and  if 
we  do  not  go  on  for  another  hundred  years  and  more,  our  children  and 
grandchildren  and  great-grandchildren  will  go  on — they  will  still  be 
preaching  the  everlasting,  unchangeable  Gospel.  Nevertheless,  there  is 
sufficient  variety  in  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel,  from  a  personal  stand- 
point, such  as  the  angle  at  which  the  Gospel  is  approached,  the  manner 
of  speaking,  and  other  influences  and  qualifications,  to  make  these 
sermons  interesting  and  instructive,  if  only  they  are  prompted  by  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord.    That  is  the  important  thing. 

THE  SEEN  AND  UNSEEN  WORLDS 

I  am  led  to  make  this  remark,  that  things  on  earth  are  typical  of 
things  in  heaven.  As  Latter-day  Saints,  and  the  world  at  large  also,  we 
are  deeply  interested  in  and  connected  with  both  of  two  worlds,  one 
seen  and  the  other  unseen.  The  unseen  world  is  much  larger  and  greater 
and  much  more  important  than  the  world  that  is  seen,  the  world  in 
which  we  live.  The  world  in  which  we  live  is  greatly  magnified  by  the 
fact  that  we  can  behold  it  with  our  mortal  eyes.  The  unseen  world 
suffers  in  that  respect,  because  we  do  not  see  it  with  the  mortal  eye. 
Somebody  may  ask :  "Can  it  be  seen  ?"    Yes,  oh  yes,  indeed,  it  can  be 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


75 


seen.  "But  how  shall  we  see  it?"  We  must  look  at  it  through  our  spirit- 
ual eye,  or  in  other  words,  the  eye  of  faith.  There  is  no  doubt  but  what 
it  exists,  that  greater  world,  and  that  it  is  very  substantial.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  has  said  this  concerning  it :  "There  is  no  such  thing  as 
immaterial  matter,  for  all  spirit  is  matter  but  it  is  more  fine  and  pure,  and 
can  only  be  discerned  by  purer  eyes.  We  cannot  see  it,  but  when  our 
bodies  are  purified  we  shall  see  that  it  is  all  matter." 

Now,  this  spiritual  world  is  thought  to  be,  by  some  people,  some- 
thing very  intangible,  because  they  do  not  see  it  with  the  mortal  eye,  and 
cannot  feel  it  or  handle  it.  But  as  I  have  already  stated,  it  is  very 
substantial  in  its  character.  It  is  to  that  unseen  world  that  we  go  when 
we  pass  from  this  life.  Now,  the  thing  I  wish  to  say  is  this  :  When  our 
loved  ones  sicken  and  die  they  are  carefully  laid  away  in  their  graves. 
We  mourn  for  those  who  die,  and  we  say  of  them  that  they  have  gone 
to  their  rest  in  the  paradise  of  God,  there  to  await  the  resurrection  of 
the  just,  and  that  they  will  come  forth,  in  the  first  resurrection.  All  that 
is  very  true. 

ACTIVITY   IN   THE  SPIRIT  WORLD 

But  what  does  this  rest  consist  of  ?  I  rather  think  it  means  that  they 
will  rest  from  their  worldly  anxieties,  from  pain  suffered  in  this  life, 
from  sickness  and  disease.  All  those  things  will  pass  away.  Freed 
from  the  anxieties  and  troubles  of  mortality  I  apprehend  that  they  will 
be  very  active.  I  know  some  people  who  have  claimed  that  they  saw 
Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  in  vision  or  in  dreams,  but  in  all  such  in- 
stances he  appeared  to  be  exceedingly  busy,  busier  than  ever  he  was  in 
life,  in  order,  apparently,  that  he  might  accomplish  some  important  work 
he  had  in  hand.  He  seemed  to  be  in  a  great  hurry.  I  think  very  likely 
that  is  the  case  with  others  who  die.  Whatever  activity  there  is  with  us 
in  this  life,'  it  is  due  to  the  spirit,  or  life,  within  us — not  to  the  body. 
It  is  the  spirit  that  gives  action,  and  the  spirit,  when  it  leaves  the  body, 
undoubtedly  is  very  much  alive. 

Another  thing  I  wish  to  emphasize  for  a  few  moments,  because  it 
points  to  the  thing  I  would  like  to  lay  before  you  is  this :  Sometimes 
people  ask  the  question  (speaking  of  the  activity  referred  to,  of  the 
spirit,  when  it  goes. into  the  spirit  world),  "How  is  that  directed?  What 
does  that  activity  consist  of  ?  What  do  the  dead  do  ?"  That  is  a  query 
that  often  comes  into  the  mind.  It  comes  into  my  mind,  and  no  doubt 
into  yours.  We  wonder  what  our  loved  ones  are  doing  over  there  on  the 
other  side.  If  I  should  make  answer  I  would  say  that  in  my  opinion  they 
are  doing  over  there  just  exactly  what  we  are  doing  here.  Somebody 
says :  "Well,  how  can  you  explain  that  thought,  Brother  Clawson  ?"  I 
explain  it  upon  this  basis :  In  heaven  there  is  the  Church  of  the  First- 
born. It  has  been  referred  to  already  in  this  conference.  You  will 
find  it  in  the  scriptures.  It  is  referred  to  in  Paul's  epistle  to  Hebrews, 
and  is  called  the  Church  of  the  First-born.  The  First-born  in  heaven 
is  Jesus  Christ;  consequently  the  Church  of  the  First-born  in  heaven 
is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THE  CHURCH  HERE  AND  THE  CHURCH  IN  HEAVEN 

And  then  we  have  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  upon  the  earth,  and 
I  should  say  that  as  between  these,  two  churches  there  is  virtually  no 
difference,  except  this,  that  in  the  one  case  the  church  is  upon  the  earth, 
and  in  the  other  case  the  church  is  in  the  spirit  world,  or  in  heaven.  The 
work  that  we  are  expected  to  do  here,  I  am  sure  we  will  be  expected  to 
do  over  there,  and  we  will  have  the  means  to  do  it.  They  who  have  gone 
before  us,  who  bear  the  priesthood,  have  taken  the  means  with  them 
which  represents  divine  authority.  We  lose  nothing  by  dying,  except 
the  body  which  must  go  back  to  the  earth  that  gave  it.  The  body  belongs 
to  the  earth.  It  is  formed  of  dust,  and  will  return  to  dust.  But  the 
spirit  came  from  God,  and  when  it  leaves  the  body  it  will  return  to  God 
who  gave  it.    That  is  good  scripture. 

Now,  a  man  who  is  an  apostle  here  will  be  an  apostle  there.  A  man 
who  is  a  high  priest  here,  or  a  seventy,  or  an  elder,  or  a  patriarch,  when 
he  dies,  will  still  be  in  possession  of  the  office  he  held  on  earth.  The  high 
priest,  for  instance,  will  pass  into  the  high  priests'  quorum  there,  the 
seventy  into  the  seventies'  quorum,  and  the  elder  into  the  elders'  quorum, 
and  so  on.  It  is  all  one  church.  All  that  divides  these  two  great  church 
divisions  is  the  veil,  and  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  that  govern  here 
in  the  Church  of  Christ  will  surely  govern  there  in  the  Church  of  Christ. 
So  the  men  holding  various  offices  in  the  priesthood  in  this  life  will  pass 
into  their  proper  quorums  in  the  life  to  come.  No  doubt  it  will  all  be 
done  in  perfect  order.  There  will  be  no  confusion,  and  the  good  work 
will  go  on. 

THE  WORK  FOR  OUR  ANCESTORS 

Somebody  asks  :  "How  will  it  go  on  ?"  The  answer  is  :  There  are 
many,  very  many  spirits  there,  men  and  women  who  have  lived  upon 
the  earth,  who  came  into  their  bodies,  laid  down  their  bodies  again,  and 
went  into  the  spirit  world,  who  never  heard  the  Gospel.  We  often  allude 
to  them  as  our  ancestors.  There  isn't  a  man  in  this  congregation  but 
who  has  a  line  of  ancestors,  and  there  isn't  a  woman  in  this  congregation 
but  who  has  her  line  of  ancestors,  and  we  can't  get  away  from  them.  A 
man  can't  get  away  from  his  father  or  his  mother.  We  all  know  that  to 
be  true.  They  have  a  claim  upon  us  as  our  parents  and  we  have  a  claim 
upon  them  as  their  children.   This  is  also  true  of  our  ancestors. 

Now,  there  are  many  of  our  ancestors  who  had  no  opportunity  at  all 
in  life  of  hearing  the  Gospel.  That  opportunity  must  come  to  them. 
How  can  it  come  to  them  ?  Only  in  one  way,  and  that  is  by  the  preaching 
of  the  Gospel,  and  the  Gospel  will  be  preached  to  them,  I  am  sure,  by 
the  apostles  and  prophets,  high  priests,  seventies  and  elders  who  have 
lived  and  died  and  gone  into  the  spirit  world.  The  work  to  be  done 
there  is  vastly  greater  than  that  which  is  done  upon  the  earth  by  the 
Saints  of  God.  There  are  millions  and  millions  upon  millions  who  have 
lived  and  died  since  the  Savior  was  upon  the  earth,  down  to  the  present 
time.  The  work  must  be  done  for  them.  That  obligation,  brethren 
and  sisters,  is  resting  upon  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  They  are  looking  to  us  for  it. 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


77 


"For  this  cause  was  the  Gospel  preached  also  to  them  that  are  dead,  that  they 
might  be  judged  according  to  men  in  the  flesh,  but  live  according  to  God  in  the 
spirit." 

Yes,  live  by  the  principles  of  God  in  the  spirit,  and  be  judged  by 
the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  performed  for  them  in  the  flesh.  How 
beautiful  that  is ! 

The  Savior  stands  for  us.  He  has  given  his  life's  blood,  that  precious 
blood,  that  we  might  be  saved.  So  we  must  stand  for  our  ancestors. 
We  must  do  for  them  the  work  that  they  cannot  do  for  themselves.  I 
call  your  attention  to  this  fact,  that  that  particular  work  is  perhaps  the 
most  benevolent,  the  most  charitable  work  in  all  the  world,  because  they 
find  themselves  in  a  position  where  they  cannot  move.  Their  progress 
is  stopped.  The  Savior  said — you  will  remember  the  language,  it  is 
very  clear,  very  emphatic — 

"Except  a  man" — and  a  man  means  every  man,  all  men — "Except  a  man  be 
born  of  water  and  of  the  spirit,  he  cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God." 

That  edict  reaches  into  eternity.  It  is  not  surprising  at  all  that 
when  Elijah  came  and  turned  the  key,  the  fathers  behind  the  veil  would 
be  interested  in  their  children  on  this  side  of  the  veil,  and  those  fathers 
are  looking  to  us  to  do  the  work  for  them,  and  we  are  under  obligation 
to  do  the  work. 

CHRIST  IN  THE  SPIRIT  WORLD 

You  will  remember,  brethren  and  sisters,  the  injunction  of  the 
Savior,  when  he  advised  his  followers  to  lay  up  treasures  in  heaven. 
What  greater  treasures  can  you  lay  up  in  heaven  than  by  bringing  sal- 
vation through  the  Gospel  to  some  of  those  immortal  souls  of  God,  his 
children.    It  is  said  of  Christ: 

"He  hath  once  suffered  for  sins,  the  just  for  the  unjust,  that  he  might  bring 
us  to  God,  being  put  to  death  in  the  flesh,  but  quickened  by  the  spirit : 

"By  which  also  he  went  and  preached  unto  the  spirits  in  prison ; 

"Which  sometime  were  disobedient,  when  once  the  long-suffering  of  God 
waited  in  the  days  of  Noah,  while  the  ark  was  a  preparing,  wherein  few,  that  is, 
eight  souls,  were  saved  by  water." 

So  it  seems  that  Christ  was  not  idle  while  his  body  rested  in  the  grave 
for  three  days,  prior  to  his  resurrection.  He  was  preaching  the  Gospel. 
He  preached  it  here.  He  preached  it  there.  Is  not  that  an  example  to  us  ? 
We  preach  the  Gospel  here.  Think  you  not  that  we  will  also  be  called 
upon  to  preach  the  Gospel  there?  I  rather  like  the  thought.  It  is 
beautiful.  Christ  sets  the  example  in  more  ways  than  one.  He  gave 
us  the  law  of  the  Gospel.  He  gave  us  the  law  of  baptism,  and  he  em- 
phasized and  magnified  the  law,  by  submitting  to  it  himself.  He  said : 
"Follow  me."  In  following  him  he  expects  us,  of  course,  to  do  the  works 
that  he  did. 

THE  TEMPLE,  THE  CONNECTING  LINK 

And  so  we  have  two  great  churches,  one  in  heaven,  the  other  upon 
the  earth.  They  are  moving  along  parallel  lines,  and  the  temple  of  God, 
it  appears  to  me,  is  the  connecting  link  that  connects  the  heavens  with 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  earth,  because  it  is  through  the  temple  that  we  will  be  able  to  reach 
our  dead,  and  not  otherwise.  To  pray  for  the  dead  may  not  be  of  any 
real  assistance  to  them.  To  actually  help  them  we  must  do  a  work  for 
them. 

The  following  piece  of  information,  I  am  sure,  will  be  very  inter- 
esting to  you,  and  will  also  be  instructive.  Something  over  six  millions 
of  endowments  have  been  administered  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  up  to  December,  1932.  Something  over  eight 
millions  of  baptisms  for  the  dead  have  been  solemnized  in  the  Church  of 
Jesus-  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  up  to  December  31st;  1932.  Many 
thousands  of  sealings  of  wives  to  husbands,  and  of  children  to  parents, 
have  taken  place. 

I  think  we  may  reasonably  expect  that  the  great  majority  of  these 
who  have  had  the  work  done  for  them  will  accept  it,  and  if  that  be  the 
case,  brethren  and  sisters,  you  will  see  at  a  glance  that  the  Church  of 
the  First-born  in  heaven  is  much  greater  and  stronger,  and  the  member- 
ship there  is  much  more  numerous  than  it  is  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ, 
or  the  First-bom,  here  upon  the  earth. 

When  I  saw  these  figures  I  was  very  much  impressed  with  them. 

THE  LAST  SERMON  OF  PRESIDENT  WOODRUFF 

Perhaps  I  will  just  have  time,  possibly,  to  allude  to  the  last  sermon 
of  President  Wilford  Woodruff.  It  was  delivered  in  this  Tabernacle, 
April  10,  1898.  He  bore  a  very  powerful  and  impressive  testimony.  He 
said : 

"At  the  close  of  this  conference  I  have  a  desire  to  bear  my  testimony  before 
you  upon  a  few  principles.  I  have  rejoiced  very  much  during  this  conference 
in  listening  to  the  testimonies  of  the  apostles  and  elders  who  have  spoken.  It  has 
brought  to  my  remembrance  a  little  of  my  history. 

"In  April  of  1838,  while  in  the  town  of  Kirtland,  in  walking  across  the  street, 
I  met  two  men  who  held  the  apostleship.  They  said  to  me :  'Brother  Woodruff, 
we  have  something  that  we  want  you  to  join  us  in.'  Said  I,  'What  is  it?'  'We 
want  another  prophet  to  lead  us.'  'Whom  do  you  want?'  'We  want  Oliver 
Cowdery.  Joseph  Smith  has  apostatized.'  After  listening  to  them,  I  said :  'Unless 
you  repent  of  your  sins,  you  will  be  damned  and  go  to  hell,  and  you  will  go  through 
the  fulness  of  eternal  damnation,  and  all  your  hopes  in  this  life  will  pass  before 
you  like  the  frost  before  the  rising  sun.  You  are  false.  Joseph  Smith  holds 
the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God  on  earth,  and  will  hold  them  until  the  coming 
of  the  Son  of  Man,  whether  in  this  world  or  in  the  world  to  come.'  I  am  happy 
to  say  that  these  men  did  repent  pretty  soon,  turned  to  the  Church,  and  died  in  it. 

"I  feel  thankful  today  that  Joseph  F.  Smith  is  with  us  as  a  son  of  Hyrum 
Smith.  He  bears  a  true  and  faithful  testimony  of  his  father.  I  would  to  God 
that  Joseph  Smith  had  a  son  in  the  flesh  who  would  do  as  Joseph  F.  Smith  does 
here — bear  testimony  to  the  truth  of  his  father.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has 
no  son  that  stands  in  the  midst  of  the  Church  of  God  and  bears  record  of  his 
father.    He  never  has  had,  possibly  never  will  have. 

"I  will  give  you  a  testimony  here  that  will  show  you  where  I  stand  with 
regard  to  this  matter.  Joseph  Smith  never  ordained  his  son  Joseph,  never  blessed 
him,  never  set  him  apart  to  lead  this  Church  and  kingdom  on  the  face  of  the  earth. 
When  he  or  any  other  man  says  he  did,  they  state  that  which  is  false  before  high 
heaven. 

"The  last  speech  that  Joseph  Smith  ever  made  to  the  quorum  of  the  apostles 
was  in  a  building  in  Nauvoo,  and  it  was  such  a  speech  as  I  never  heard  from 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


79 


mortal  man  before  or  since.  He  was  clothed  upon  with  the  spirit  and  power  of 
God.  His  face  was  clear  as  amber;  the  room  was  filled  as  with  consuming  fire. 
He  stood  three  hours  upon  his  feet.  Said  he :  'You  Apostles  of  the  Lamb  of 
God  have  been  chosen  to  carry  out  the  purposes  of  the  Lord  on  the  earth.  Now. 
I  have  received,  as  the  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  standing  at  the  head  of 
this  dispensation,  every  key,  every  ordinance,  every  principle  and  every  priesthood 
that  belongs  to  the  last  dispensation  and  fulness  of  times.  And  I  have  sealed 
all  these  things  upon  your  heads.  Now,  you  Apostles,  if  you  do  not  rise  up  and 
bear  off  this  kingdom,  as  I  have  given  it  to  you,  you  will  be  damned.' 

"I  am  the  only  witness  left  on  earth  that  can  bear  record  of  this,  and  [  am 
thankful  that  I  have  lived  to  see  the  day  in  which  I  stand.  I  am  thankful  to  see 
the  sons  of  these  prophets  and  apostles  holding  the  Holy  Priesthood  in  our  day 
and  generation.  I  do  not  believe  the  day  will  ever  come — it  is  too  late  in  the  day, 
in  my  opinion — when  any  elder  in  this  Church  will  be  called  to  stand  before  any 
two  of  the  apostles  with  us  today  and  give  unto  them  the  declaration  that  I  gave 
unto  the  two  apostles  I  have  referred  to.  I  do  not  think  any  of  the  apostles  will 
occupy  that  position.  I  have  faith  to  believe  that  these  men  will  bear  the  apostle- 
ship,  will  hold  it,  and  live  their  religion.  They  have  been  called  and  ordained  of 
God  for  this  purpose.  I  do  not  think  that  one  of  them  will  apostatize.  I  believe 
that  they  will  be  with  you  and  with  this  Church  while  they  stand  in  the  flesh,  true 
and  faithful  to  God." 

There  is  another  clause  here  which  I  wish  to  read.  It  has  some 
bearing  on  what  I  have  said. 

"Brother  Cannon" — meaning  George  Q.  Cannon — "has  been  laying  before  you 
something  with  regard  to  the  nation  in  which  we  live,  and  what  has  been  said 
concerning  it.  I  am  going  to  bear  my  testimony  to  this  assembly,  if  I  never  do  it 
again  in  my  life,  that  the  men  who  laid  the  foundation  of  this  American  govern- 
ment, and  signed  the  Declaration  of  Independence,  were  the  best  spirits  the  God 
of  Heaven  could  find  on  the  face  of  the  earth.  They  were  choice  spirits,  not 
wicked  men.  General  Washington  and  all  the  men  that  labored  for  that  purpose 
were  inspired  of  the  Lord.  Another  thing  I  am  going  to  say  here,  because  I  have 
a  right  to  say  it,  every  one  of  those  men  that  signed  the  Declaration  of  Inde- 
pendence, with  General  Washington,  called  upon  me,  as  an  apostle  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  in  the  temple  at  St.  George,  two  consecutive  nights,  and  demanded 
at  my  hands  that  I  should  go  forth  and  attend  to  the  ordinances  of  the  House  of 
God  for  them.  Men  are  here,  I  believe,  that  know  of  this,  Brother  J.  D.  T. 
McAllister,  David  H.  Cannon  and  James  S.  Bleak.  Brother  McAllister  baptized 
me  for  all  those  men,  and  then  I  told  these  brethren  that  it  was  their  duty  to  go 
into  the  temple  and  labor  until  they  had  got  endowments  for  all  of  them.  They 
did  it.  Would  those  spirits  have  called  upon  me  as  an  elder  of  Israel,  to  perform 
that  work,  if  they  had  not  been  noble  spirits  before  God?  They  would  not.  I  bear 
this  testimony  because  it  is  true.  The  Spirit  of  God  bore  record  to  myself  and  the 
brethren  while  we  were  laboring  in  that  way. 

"What  has  been  said  with  regard  to  this  nation  and  to  our  position  is  coming" 
to  pass,  and  all  the  powers  of  earth  and  hell  will  not  stay  the  hand  of  Almighty 
God  in  the  fulfilment  of  the  great  prophecies  that  have  'come  to  pass  to  prepare 
the  way  for  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man. 

".You  who  have  gathered  here  are  my  witnesses  of  this.  I  feel  as  though  the 
day  has  come  when  every  elder  and  every  Latter-day  Saint  ought  to  stop  and 
consider  the  position  he  is  in,  and  the  covenants  he  has  entered  into.  Is  there  any- 
thing on  the  face  of  the  earth  that  will  pay  you  to  depart  from  the  oracles  of 
God  and  from  the  Gospel  of  Christ  ?  Is  there  anything  that  will  pay  you  to  lose 
the  principles  of  salvation,  to  lose  a  part  in  the  first  resurrection,  with  the  priv- 
ilege of  standing  in  the  morning  of  the  resurrection  clothed  with  glory,  immor- 
tality and  eternal  life,  at  the  head  of  your  father's  house?  No,  there  is  nothing. 
I  feel  sorry  many  times  when  I  see  men  who  have  the  priesthood  almost  forget 
that  they  have  any  interest  in  the  work  of  God. 

"I  feel  thankful  to  God  that  I  have  lived  as  long  as  I  have,  and  to  see  as 
much  as  I  have  in  fulfilment  of  the  words  of  the  Prophet  of  God.    His  days 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


were  few.  The  lives  of  great  men  have  been  strange.  The  idea  of  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Son  of  the  living  God,  only  laboring  three  years  and  a  half  in  the  ministry, 
then  he  was  put  to  death.  His  apostles  too  were  put  to  death,  excepting  John  the 
Revelator,  and  they  would  have  killed  him  if  they  could  have  done  so.  He  lived 
because  God  wanted  him  to  live. 

"We  live  in  the  last  dispensation,  and  in  the  midst  of  the  great  work  that  all 
the  patriarchs  and  prophets  since  God  made  the  world  have  spoken  of.  Afflictions 
and  tribulations  await  the  world.  The  destroying"  angels  have  got  their  sharp 
sickles  in  their  hands,  and  are  going  to  reap  down  the  earth.  Everything  that  has 
been  spoken  by  the  prophets  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost  will  come 
to  pass  in  the  generation  in  which  we  live.    Do  not  forget  it. 

"I  thank  God  we  are  as  well  as  we  are;  that  we  have  as  many  as  we  have  who 
are  united  together  in  the  Priesthood.  Let  us  try  to  live  our  religion,  do  our  duty_. 
and  magnify  our  callings  while  we  are  here.  The  eyes  of  all  heaven  are  over  us. 
The  eyes  of  the  world  are  over  us.  The  eyes  of  the  angels  are  over  us.  The  Lord 
has  looked  upon  us  and  upon  the  house  of  Israel  to  be  saviors  of  the  nations.  We 
are  here  to  fulfill  these  principles. 

"I  pray  God  my  Heavenly  Father  that  as  elders  of  Israel  and  as  Latter-day 
Saints  we  may  prize  these  principles,  and  that  we  may  do  our  duty  what  time  we 
spend  here  in  the  flesh.  These  apostles  and  all  the  quorums  of  the  Priesthood  have 
a  great  work  upon  them,  to  redeem  their  dead.  Do  not  neglect  it.  You  will 
have  sorrow  if  you  do,  and  any  man  who  neglects  the  redemption  of  his  dead, 
who  has  power  to  officiate  for  them  here  will  have  sorrow.  When  you  go  to  the 
other  side  of  the  veil,  if  you  have  entered  into  these  temples  and  redeemed  your 
progenitors  by  the  ordinances  of  the  House  of  God,  you  will  hold  the  keys  of  their 
redemption  from  eternity  to  eternity.    Do  not  neglect  this !" 

God  bless  you  brethren  and  sisters  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

Two  young  boys,  Ronald  and  Royal  Buttars,  sang  a  duet,  "What  is 
a  home  without  love?"  after  which  the  "Singing  Mothers"  sang  the  an- 
them, "I  waited  for  the  Lord." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  am  almost  sorry  that  we  did  not  decide  to  hold  this  conference 
four  days.  For  some  reason  or  other  we  do  not  seem  to  be  able  to  get 
quite  through  in  three  days.  I  suppose  we  have  too  many  speakers  and 
too  many  ideas.  We  would  like  to  hear  from  some  of  our  Mission 
Presidents.  I  dislike  very  much  to  limit  their  time,  but  I  suppose  we 
will  have  to  do  so.  We  would  like  them  to  bear  their  testimonies  and 
make  a  few  remarks. 

ELDER  ARTHUR  WELLING 

President  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  very  proud  and  happy  to  be  a  mis- 
sionary of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  which  I 
believe  to  be  the  greatest  agency  ever  known  to  man  for  character  edu- 
cation and  for  spiritual,  moral  and  physical  development. 

I  am  happy  to  be  here,  to  give  brief  report  of  the  mission  in  which 
I  have  the  honor  to  serve,  and  to  bear  my  testimony  to  the  truthfulness 
of  this  great  latter-day  work. 

In  the  North  Central  States  Mission  we  have  forty  regular  mis- 


ELDER  ARTHUR  WELLING 


81 


sionaries,  all  well  and  busy  and  happy  in  their  work,  and  the  Lord 
is  magnifying'  them  therein.  Were  there  time  I  could  tell  you  something 
good  about  every  one  of  them.  We  have  sixty  special  missionaries 
giving  all  the  way  from  one  or  two  hours  a  day  to1  nearly  full  time  in 
missionary  service,  and  the  Lord  is  blessing  their  efforts.  We  have 
twenty-six  hundred  members,  and  though  in  our  wheat-growing  prairie 
states  and  provinces  we  feel  the  pinch  of  these  hard  times,  our  people 
are  faithful  and  are  to  the  best  of  their  ability  living  the  Gospel  as  they 
understand  it. 

We  have  a  great  many  friends,  I  am  glad  to  say,  and  their  number 
is  increasing.  Officers  of  the  law;  educators,  and  the  traveling  public 
particularly,  have  a  growing  friendliness  for  the  Church  and  its  people. 
We  never  meet  a  man  or  woman  who  has  been  here,  and  has  visited  this 
block,  but  has  a  kindly  word  for  Utah  and  the  people  of  the  Church. 

Since  the  Word  of  Wisdom  has  been  so  forcefully  emphasized  at 
this  conference,  you  may  be  interested  to  know  that  not  many  weeks 
ago  an  officer  of  the  city  of  Minneapolis,  the  greatest  city  within  our 
borders,  having  heard  something  about  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  asked 
for  more  information  concerning  it,  explaining  that  he  was  to  appear 
before  the  men's  club  of  his  church.  He  was  supplied  liberally  with 
charts  and  graphs  and  statistics,  such  as  were  assembled  during  the  great 
Word  of  Wisdom  exhibit  a  few  years  ago ;  and  he  later  reported  having 
used  them  in  his  church  with  creditable  effect. 

But,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  while  friends  multiply,  real  converts 
to  the  divinity  of  this  great  Latter-day  work  are  few.  "We  believe  in 
God  the  eternal  Father,  and  in  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ."  So  do  many 
other  good  people ;  but  not  in  the  same  literal  sense  in  which  we  do. 

Not  many  days  ago,  over  in  the  city  of  Great  Falls,  where  President 
Sloan's  responsibilities  leave  off  and  mine  begin,  a  sister  told  me  of  a 
conversation  in  which  a  friendly  non-member  of  the  Church  complained : 
"You  Mormon  people  seem  to  think  and  act  as  if  you  thought  Jesus 
Christ  himself  might  have  come  to  the  earth  to  organize  your  church." 
"Well,"  replied  the  good  sister,  "what  would  you  say  if  I  should  tell  you 
that  is  exactly  what  he  did  do  ?" 

The  difference  is  significant.  Plenty  of  honest  and  honorable  men 
affirm  a  faith  correctly  described,  it  seems  to  me,  as  "A  form  of  Godli- 
ness without  the  power  [or  reality]  thereof."  Others  declare  with  one 
of  old,  "Except  I  shall  see  in  his  hands  the  print  of  the  nails,  *  *  * 
and  thrust  my  hand  into  his  side,  I  will  not  believe."  Real  faith  in  a 
living,  personal  Savior  is  all  too  rare. 

I  have  not  felt  the  nail-prints  in  his  hands  and  feet,  but  I  believe 
as  I  believe  that  I  live  that  he  lives  as  truly  and  as  really  as  when  he 
walked  in  Galilee ;  and  I  am  comforted  by  his  kindly  assurance  to  the 
doubter  of  old :  Blessed  art  thou  Thomas,  because  thou  hast  believed 
having  seen ;  but  blessed  are  they  who  believe  not  having  seen — or  words 
<-o  that  effect. 

We  know  that  he  lives  for  our  prophets  have  seen  him.  He  did 
come  to  earth  and  re-establish  his  church  among  men.  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  in  truth,  his  church.   His  priesthood 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


is  here,  and  under  the  ministration  of  authorized  servants,  it  works  to 
the  benefit  and  blessing  of  mankind.  May  it  continue  to  grow,  and  may 
the  honest  in  heart  of  all  the  earth  receive  a  testimony  of  its  truth  and 
be  made  partakers  of  its  blessings,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN 

President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

Several  years  ago  we  had  150  missionaries  in  the  Northwestern 
States.  Our  numbers  have  been  reduced  until  there  are  only  36 
today.  Because  of  the  great  shortage,  and  I  believe  through  the 
inspiration  of  George  F.  Richards,  new  light  came  when  we  were 
advised  to  draft  into  service  local  people  in  our  mission.  Acting 
upon  this  suggestion  we  now  have  293  special  missionaries.  I  wish 
I  could  tell  you  just  one-tenth  of  the  many  testimonies  we  have 
received  from  these  brethren  and  sisters  through  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord.  We  have  mothers  with  families  of  two,  three,  and  four 
children,  spending  part  of  their  time  in  this  wonderful  work  along 
with  their  husbands.  Many  of  them  have  reported  to  me  that 
they  have  never  known  such  happiness  in  their  homes  before.  Not 
only  spiritual  but  financial  blessings  attend  them  in  their  work. 

We  have  tried  in  our  mission  to  take  the  counsel  given  by 
President  Grant  and  President  Ivins.  We  have  made  desperate 
efforts  to  rid  ourselves  of  obligations,  and  I  am  sure  that  it  has 
been  pretty  .well  accomplished.  Ninety-five  per  cent  of  all  the 
contributions  made  in  our  mission  have  come  from  non-tithe  payers, 
and  the  tithe-payers  are  self  sustaining.  We  have  counseled  our 
people  to  provide  supplies  for  their  families,  and  in  the  homes  of 
almost  all  our  branch  presidents  and  our  leading  men  you  will  find 
provisions  enough  to  last  them  almost  another  year.  One  of  our 
branches  has  sufficient  flour,  wheat,  sugar  and  groceries  to  last 
every  member  of  the  branch  for  one  year  from  now.  This  spring, 
as  part  of  them  were  living  in  the  city  and  others  on  ranches,  one 
of  our  brethren  with  a  large  ranch  turned  over  to  the  people  in  the 
city  sufficient  ground  for.  them  to  raise  all  the  garden  truck  they 
need,  and  already  gardens  are  being  planted  which  will  provide 
every  family  with  enough  for  the  coming  year.  We  feel  that  the 
Lord  is  blessing  us.  Our  organizations  have  never  been  in  a  better 
or  more  healthy  condition,  our  meeting  houses  and  places  of  wor- 
ship are  crowded  to  their  capacity,  inadequate  in  some  instances 
to  accommodate  the  people  who  attend  our  Sunday  Schools  and  the 
Auxiliary  work.  We  are  happy  for  this.  I  could  tell  you  so  many 
things-  about  our  activities  in  the  mission  but  the  time  will  not 
permit. 

I  wonder  if  you  know,  here  in  Salt  Lake,  what  was  accom- 
plished by  a  kind  deed  one  day  years  ago.  A  sister,  not  a  member 
of  our-  Church,  was  stricken  with  a  serious  malady.  Her  doctor 
gave  her  no  hopes  and  said  she  had  only  six  months  to  live  and 
that  would  be  conditional  that  she  would  move  somewhere  into  the 


ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN 


83 


mountains.  He  recommended  Salt  Lake  City.  She  had  never  been 
among  the  "Mormons"  in  her  life  and  came  here  with  considerable 
misgivings^  and  unacquainted  with  the  people.  She  shipped  her 
furniture  here  and  rented  a  little  home  in  the  eastern  part  of  the 
city.  The  drayman  took  the  furniture  out  to  the  home  one  after- 
noon and  she  busied  herself  as  best  she  could  adjusting  the  little 
cottage  as  her  future  home.  In  the  evening  she  heard  a  rap  at  the 
kitchen  door  and  as  she  opened  the  door  there  stood  a  lady  with  a 
tray  in  her  hand,  covered  with  a  nice  white  napkin.  "I  am  your 
neighbor,"  she  said  in  introducing  herself;  "I  saw  you  move  in  this 
afternoon,  I  knew  you  would  not  be  able  to  cook  today  and  so  I 
have  prepared  an  evening  meal  and  have  brought  you  a  nice  warm 
dinner.  Although  we  are  strangers  will  you  accept  of  our  hospi- 
tality?" "Oh  yes,"  she  said,  "And  how  thankful  I  am  to  you  for 
this  act  of  kindness." 

The  next  day  they  became  a  little  better  acquainted,  and  so  as 
time  went  on  their  friendship  grew.  The  children  in  the  neighbor- 
hood made  friends  with  her  and  were  so  kind  and  did  many  little 
acts  of  kindness  for  her.  Her  health  was  restored  and  a  year  or  two 
later  she  returned  to  her  home  in  the  Northwest. 

One  day  she  called  me  up  from  the  hotel  and  asked  for  an 
audience  with  me.  A  few  moments  later  she  came  to  my  office, 
where  she  related  the  above  story.  Among  other  things  she  said, 
"President  Sloan,  the  peculiar  thing  of  it  all  was  that  this  woman 
was  a  'Mormon'  and  her  neighbor  and  her  children  were  'Mor- 
mons,' and  because  of  their  kindness  to  me  I  have  always  felt 
from  then  until  now  that  I  was  obligated  to  your  Church,  and  I  feel 
that  I  must  do  something  in.  a  monetary  way  to  show  my  sincere 
gratitude  to  the  'Mormon'  people  who  did  so  much  for  me."  She 
handed  me  a  check  for  one  thousand  dollars  and  asked  that  I  accept 
it  as  a  contribution,  as  a  slight  token  of  her  appreciation. 

I  am  sure  that  the  sister  who  furnished  that  meal  never  ex- 
pected any  remuneration.  I  am  sure  she  considered  it  a  mere  pass- 
ing incident,  as  any  good  mother  would  do.  I  am  wondering  if  she 
is  still  alive  and  if  she  is  hearing  my  voice  today.  It  is  far  better 
to  give  than  to  receive. 

I  would  like  to  bear  witness  in  behalf  of  our  wonderful  Choir 
and  tell  Brother  Lund  and  his  associates  in  this  great  work  what 
they  are  doing  for  the  Northwestern  States  Mission.  The  hearts 
of  tens  of  thousands  of  people  are  gladdened  by  the  strains  of  the 
glorious  old  organ  and  our  wonderful  Choir,  famous  the  world  over. 
You  are  doing  a  missionary  work  for  us  far  greater,  in  many 
instances,  than  our  missionaries  can  do. 

God  bless  you  my  brothers  and  sisters  and  these  men  who 
represent  God.  I  pray  that  we  may  take  their  counsel.  May  we 
not  only  sing  "We  thank  thee,  O  God  for  a  Prophet,"  but  let  us 
take  the  word  of  God's  holy  prophets,  his  counsel,  and  reduce  it  to 
our  every  day  practice  in  life,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  MILES  L.  JONES 

President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 

President  C'lawson  has  just  expressed  the  feelings  that  come  to 
me  in  standing  before  you  this  afternoon.  My  experience  has  taught 
me  this,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  when  we  are  called  to  take  an  active 
part  in  the  work  of  the  Lord  he  will  always  make  us  equal  to  the  occa- 
sion, provided  we  put  our  hearts  and  souls  into  the  work. 

I  am  very  pleased  to  bring  to  you  greetings  from  the  missionaries 
laboring  in  the  East  Central  States  Mission.  We  have  a  splendid  group 
of  young  men  and  young  ladies  laboring  in  that  mission  who  are  active 
in  the  service  of  the  Lord.  I  am  also  pleased  to  meet  with  many  of  those 
who  have  returned  from  the  mission,  some  of  whom  are  here  in  the 
congregation  this  afternoon. 

We  have  the  spirit  of  love  and  unity  in  our  midst,  both  with  the 
Saints  and  missionaries.  I  am  very  pleased  to  state  that  many  are 
coming  into  the  Church,  and  many  others  are  interested  in  our  teachings 
and  have  signified  their  intention  of  becoming  one  with  us  in  the  near 
future.  Through  the  testimony  and  the  teachings  of  these  humble  lady 
missionaries  and  Elders  who  are  laboring  in  their  midst  many  are  giving 
serious  consideration  to  their  spiritual  welfare  and  as  to  what  the  future 
holds  for  them. 

I  was  very  pleased  to  hear  the  address  given  by  President  Grant 
yesterday  morning,  in  regard  to  the  observance  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
Just  a  short  time  ago,  while  holding  conference  in  one  of  our  branches 
or  districts,  a  young  man  just  blooming  into  manhood  came  up  to  me, 
and  I  noticed  that  his  countenance  was  much  brighter  than  usual ;  his 
complexion  was  clear,  his  eyes  sparkled,  and  he  said  to  me :  "President, 
I  wanted  to  tell  you  that  for  the  past  six  months  I  have  observed  the 
Word  of  Wisdom.    I  have  quit  the  use  of  tobacco." 

I  said  to  him:  "My  boy,  I  am  glad  to  hear  that.  Now,"  I  said, 
"how  do  you  feel  physically?   Don't  you  feel  much  better?" 

"Yes,  I  do." 

Then  I  said,  "Don't  you  feel  much  better  spiritually?  Don't  you 
feel  now  as  though  you  would  like  to  receive  the  priesthood,  and  become 
active  in  the  work?" 

"Yes,  I  feel  that  I  would." 

Then  I  said :  "There  is  another  phase  of  this  question,"  and  I 
asked  him  how  much  tobacco  he  had  been  in  the  habit  of  using. 

"Oh,"  he  said,  "I  wasn't  a  very  heavy  user.  A  package  of  cigarets 
lasted  me  a  whole  day." 

I  said:  "What  did  they  cost  you?" 

"Only  fifteen  cents." 

"Well,"  I  said,  "three  hundred  days  at  fifteen  cents  would  be  forty- 
five  dollars,  and  sixty  days  at  fifteen  cents  would  be  nine  dollars — or  a 
total  of  fifty-four  dollars.  The  other  five  days  at  fifteen  cents  would  be 
seventy-five  cents.  Making  a  total  of  $54.75  a  year.  Now,"  I  said, 
"my  boy,  if  someone  would  come  to  you  at  the  end  of  the  year  and  hand 
you  $54.75,  what  could  you  do  with  that?" 


ELDER  MILES  L.  JONES 


85 


He  replied :  "I  have  never  figured  it  in  that  way."  He  then  went 
on  to  enumerate  what  he  could  purchase  with  that  amount  of  money. 

I  wonder,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  there  are  many  of  us  here  at 
home  who  are  spending  money  for  candy  and  other  things  of  that  kind, 
that  we  could  put  to  better  use  and  especially  during  these  trying  times  ? 

I  am  very  pleased  to  state  that  the  health  of  the  Saints,  with  few 
exceptions,  as  well  as  that  of  the  missionaries,  is  very  good  throughout 
the  Mission.  We  are  coming  in  contact  with  men  and  women  of  in- 
fluence and  of  standing  in  the  communities.  They  are  giving  considera- 
tion to  our  teachings,  and  I  can  see  a  bright  and  a  glorious  prospect  for 
the  work  of  the  Lord,  in  that  part  of  the  land. 

I  rejoice  in  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  work.  I  am  thankful 
to  the  Lord  that  I  have  been  called  to  labor  in  various  capacities  from 
time  to  time,  both  at  home  and  abroad,  because  I  have  realized  many 
blessings  that  come  to  those  who  serve  the  Lord. 

God  bless  you.  May  his  peace  ever  abide  with  you,  I  humbly  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY 

President  of  the  California  Mission 

I  am  delighted  with  the  opportunity  of  at  least  bearing  my  testi- 
mony before  this  great  audience.  Since  I  addressed  you  last  a  great  many 
things  have  happened.  I  do  not  wish,  to  speak  of  calamities.  I  wish 
to  speak  of  blessings. 

I  am  exceedingly  happy  and  my  heart  rejoices,  for  I  realize  that  in 
the  calling  in  which  I  am  now  engaged  I  am  actually  about  my  Father's 
business ;  that  I  am  a  soul  that  has  been  called,  by  prophecy  and  by  the 
laying  on  of  hands,  to  preach  the  Gospel  and  administer  in  the  ordinances 
thereof,  the  most  blessed  work,  the  most  soul-satisfying  work  in  the 
world.  What  a  glorious  privilege  to  move  about,  directed  by  the  Spirit 
of  God,  feeling  his  presence,  knowing  that  he  goes  before  you,  that  he 
is  upon  your  right  hand  and  upon  your  left,  preparing  the  way,  that  you 
might  present  for  him  the  everlasting  Gospel  to  the  honest  in  heart ;  to 
be  placed  in  a  position  where  you  think  no  evil,  where  selfishness  is  done 
away,  where  pride  is  laid  aside,  where  love  holds  sway,  where  unity  is 
perfect.  What  a  blessed  condition  to  be  in,  surrounded  with  young- 
men  and  young  women  who  constitute  the  missionary  force,  the  very 
elect  of  the  Lord,  clean  in  mind  and  clean  in  body,  true  to  the  faith ;  to 
feel  their  friendship,  their  supporting  love  and  confidence,  brings  a  joy 
unspeakable. 

They  may  have  come  into  the  mission  field  perhaps  crude,  perhaps 
with  little  experience,  but  they  have  worked,  they  have  studied,  they  have 
prayed,  they  have  practiced  righteousness;  and  then  they  go  forth,  in 
the  vigor  of  their  young  manhood  and  womanhood,  to  conquer,  and 
their  spirit  is  a  contagious  spirit.  It  is  heavenly  in  its  influence.  I  love 
them.  The  Saints  love  them,  truly  respect  them.  The  purity  of  their 
lives  is  appealing,  and  they  win  their  way  into  the  confidence  of  all  men 
and  all  women  that  are  pure  of  heart. 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  say  they  are  young.  The  Lord  has  used,  the  young.  I  think  that 
Orson  Pratt  was  only  nineteen  years  of  age  when  the  Lord  gave  a  special 
revelation,  and  said : 

"Blessed  are  you  because  you  have  believed ; 

"And  more  blessed  are  you  because  you  are  called  of  me  to  preach  my  Gospel ; 
"To  lift  up  your  voice  as  with  the  sound  of  a  trump,  both  long  and  loud,  and 

cry  repentance  unto  a  crooked  and  perverse  generation,  preparing  the  way  of 
the  Lord  for  his  second  coming." 

This  is  our  great  mission.  This  is  the  work  we  rejoice  in.  This 
is  the  work  we  are  united  in,  and  the  Lord  abides  with  us  in  performing 
this  great  mission  under  his  command. 

The  past  year  has  been  a  glorious  year  for  the  Saints  of  the  Califor- 
nia Mission.  Our  numbers  have  increased  to  a  greater  degree  than  they 
have  increased  in  any  of  the  recent  years  that  have  passed.  The 
faithfulness  of  the  Saints  was  never  more  manifest.  Their  unity  was 
never  more  perfect.  Their  devotion  to  the  cause  fills  them  with  joy 
and  satisfaction.  Could  you  enter  into  our  branch  meetings  and  listen 
to  the  testimonies  of  these  faithful  Saints,  your  heart  would  thrill  be- 
cause of  the  spirit  that  is  there  present. 

I  don't  know  that  an  earthquake  is  an  activity  that  pertains  to 
church  duty,  but  at  least  it  is  an  activity.  I  tell  you,  if  you  want  to 
have  a  peculiar  sensation  an  earthquake  will  give  it  to  you  ;  you  can  make 
no  appeal  for  help  to  any  human  source,  you  sense  your  dependence 
upon  a  higher  power,  you  think  instantly  of  the  predicted  calamities. 
My  heart  is  a  believing  heart,  thank  God,  for  I  have  read  his  holy  word ; 
I  have  read  of  the  calamities  and  of  the  testimonies  which  are  to  follow 
the  testimonies  of  the  Elders,  but  I  have  never  longed  for  the  time  to  come 
when  calamities  should  be  the  testimony.  Oh,  I  felt  to  pray  for  a  stay  of 
the  day,  that  the  Lord  should  multiply  the  messengers  of  salvation,  that 
he  should  intensify  the  results  of  their  labors,  that  whenever  the  day 
must  come  when  peace  is  taken  from  the  earth,  and  when  Satan  shall 
rule  amongst  his  own.  the  Lord  shall  rule  gloriously  among  his  Saints, 
and  their  number  shall  be  multitudinous.  Oh,  may  he  spare  the  people 
and  give  us  the  opportunity  to  labor  with  them. 

It  seems  to  me  that  there  are  thousands  and  millions  of  honest  and 
true  and  undefiled.  May  we  reach  them,  until  they  shall  say  in  their 
hearts :  "Men  and  brethren,  what  shall  we  do  ?"  And  may  those  bearing 
the  priesthood  be  able  to  answer,  in  the  voice  of  God :  "Repent  and  be 
baptized  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive  the  Holy  Ghost," 
and  receiving  it,  may  they  walk  in  its  light  and  be  saved. 

That  is  my  prayer,  that  is  my  labor,  and  I  testify  that  it  is  glorious, 
that  it  is  of  God,  that  it  is  the  true  way  of  salvation  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

I  am  pleased  to  report  that  the  Eastern  States  Mission  is  in  a  good, 
healthy  condition.  At  all  events,  the  work  is  favorably  progressing. 
Health  prevails  among  the  missionaries,  and  we  never  had  a  group  more 


ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE 


87 


faithful  or  devoted,  uniformly,  than  we  have  at  the  present  time.  Al- 
though our  numbers  have  been  reduced  to  less  than  one-third  of  what 
they  were  at  the  time  I  was  called  to  preside  over  that  mission,  our  con- 
verts baptized  last  year  were  over  fifty  per  cent  more  than  the  preceding 
year,  which  was  a  somewhat  normal  year. 

The  tithing  paid  in  the  Eastern  States  Mission  is  a  demonstration 
to  me  of  the  fact  that  the  Lord  is  blessing  the  honest  tithe-payer.  Not- 
withstanding the  chaotic  conditions,  financially,  that  prevail,  the  tithing 
in  the  mission  last  year  exceeded  that  of  any  other  year  in  the  history  of 
the  mission,  excepting  1930  and  1931.  A  very  substantial  portion  of 
that  tithing  is  paid  by  western  members  who  have  moved  into  the  East, 
some  of  whom,  and  especially  young  men,  were  non-tithe-payers  at  home. 
•Notwithstanding  their  isolation  and  associations,  which  would  seem  to 
cause  them  to  further  depart  from  the  faith,  they  are  more  devoted. 
This  shows  something  of  the  strength  and  vitality  that  there  is  in  Mor- 
monism,  as  it  is  called,  where  it  has  been  taught  and  practiced  in  the  home. 

I  believe  that  the  same  is  true  with  reference  to  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  I  am  grateful  to  the  Lord  that  I  inherited,  I  might  say,  a 
knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  was  trained  in 
the  home  of  Latter-day  Saints  to  obey  it.  I  believe,  as  firmly  as  I  believe 
anything,  if  I  do  not  know  it,  that  I  am  enjoying  the  fruits,  in  a  sub- 
stantial way,  of  a  life's  effort  to  obey  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  sot 
testify  to  the  world.  When  I  tell  people  of  the  fact,  that  so  many,  as  I 
know,  of  our  young  people  went  through  the  World  War  without  ac- 
quiring the  habit  of  using  tobacco,  and  I  am  able  to  say,  with  great 
pleasure  and  satisfaction,  that  such  was  the  case  with  my  own  sons, 
it  arouses  astonishment  in  the  minds  of  thinking  men  and  increases  re- 
spect for  Mormonism. 

This  is  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder,  and  has  a  remarkable  hold 
upon  the  young  and  the  old.  In  the  Eastern  states  there  are  more  large 
cities  than  anywhere  else  in  the  country,  and  in  the  work  of  this  Taber- 
nacle Choir  and  Organ  there  is,  in  my  opinion,  the  greatest  missionary 
that  we  have.  I  have  marveled,  of  late,  when  the  newspapers  in  some 
of  these  cities  reported,  as  a  matter  of  news,  the  names  of  our  brethren 
who  would  preside  at  the  console  of  this  great  organ,  on  the  following 
Sunday.  They  also  give  the  name  of  the  leader  of  the  Choir,  and  the 
details  of  the  program  to  be  rendered  over  the  radio.  Their  names  are 
becoming  familiar  household  names  among  many  of  the  lovers  of  music 
throughout  the  nation.  These  broadcasts  are  softening  the  hearts  of 
the  people. 

It  had  not  occurred  to  me  until  coming  to  this  conference  that  it 
might  be  significant  that  the  pioneering  of  the  work  of  preaching  the 
Gospel  over  the  radio  in  our  mission  originated  on  the  Susquehanna 
River,  not  far  from  where  the  holy  priesthood  was  restored  in  this 
dispensation,  that  is,  in  the  city  of  Wilkesbarre,  on  the  north  line  of 
Pennsylvania  and  near  the  southern  line  of  New  York.  Since  starting 
there  we  have  preached  the  Gospel  every  week  over  the  same  radio 
now  for  the  past  two  years  and  eight  months.  The  locality  in  which 
we  have  had  the  greatest  radio  success  seems  to  be  that  which  surrounds 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  Hill  Cumorah  and  the  sacred  grove — Wilkesbarre  on  the  northeast, 
Jamestown,  New  York,  on  the  northwest,  Buffalo  and  Syracuse  on  the 
north.  When  I  informed  one  of  the  officers  of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting- 
System,  last  week,  that  within  the  last  two  years  and  eight  months  we 
had  broadcast  eight  hundred  and  eighty-eight  programs  over  the  air,  by 
very  young  untrained  amateurs,  boys  and  girls  of  from  nineteen  to  twenty- 
two  or  twenty-three  years  of  age,  without  any  previous  preparation  or 
special  education,  he  said  that  there  was  nothing  comparable  with  it. 
I  asked  him  if  he  wouldn't  write  me  a  letter  to  that  effect,  and  I  received 
one  yesterday  confirming  that  statement.  He  said  that  there  had  been 
some  extended  programs  by  great  preachers,  like  Dr.  Fosdick  of  New 
York,  but  that  there  was  nothing  comparable  with  this  work  that  is 
being  carried  on  by  the  Church  in  the  Eastern  States  Mission. 

Now,  let  me  beg  of  those  who  do  have  the  resources,  to  help  mis- 
sionaries in  need.  If  you  could  only  hear  the  pathetic  appeals  and  prayers 
that  are  being  offered  by  some  of  our  young  missionaries  who  want  to 
remain  and  fulfil  their  missions  but  are  compelled  to  go  home  for  lack 
of  funds  your  hearts  would  be  touched.  My  time  is  past,  but  let  me  again 
appeal  to  you.  If  individuals  or  families  alone  are  not  able  to  support  a 
missionary  in  the  field,  especially  after  he  has  been  there  long  enough  to 
become  really  useful,  cannot  two  or  three  families  join  together  and  help 
each  other  keep  missionaries  in  the  field  r  I  do  beg  and  pray  that  the  mis- 
sionaries who  are  there,  whom  we  have  trained  and  fitted  for  this  work, 
may  be  able  to  continue  and  complete  their  mission.  Many  people  are 
ready  to  listen  to  the  Gospel,  as  they  have  not  been  heretofore.  They 
are  humbled  and  ready  for  it. 

May  God  bless  this  great  work,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  consider  it  one  of  the  greatest  compliments  that  cotdd  possibly  be 
paid  to  our  organ  and  choir  recitals  that  the  Columbia  Broadcasting 
System — nation-wide — should  request  us  to  lengthen  our  Sunday  pro- 
grams from  a  half  hour  to  an  hour.  It  is  said  that  the  testing  of  a  thing 
is  what  counts.  The  doubling  of  the  program  is  a  splendid  testimony  of 
its  value,  and  we  all  feel  grateful  to  the  choir  and  organists.  It  is  no 
small  task  for  them  to  prepare  and  rehearse  their  numbers  and  then  come 
here  and  spend  a  full  hour  every  Sunday  morning  playing  and  singing 
to  the  people  of  the  world. 

I  endorse  all  the  good  things  that  have  been  said  about  the  leader 
of  the  choir,  our  organists  and  the  members  of  the  choir  themselves. 

All  those  who  wish  to  hear  the  choir  and  organ  broadcast  Sunday 
morning  should  be  quietly  seated  in  this  building  by  half  past  nine. 

The  "Singing  Mothers"  rendered  the  anthem,  "The  Heavens  are 
Telling." 

Benediction  by  Elder  Colen  H.  Sweeten.  President  of  the  Curlew 
Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Sunday  morning,  April  9. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

Sunday  morning,  April  9. 

Every  seat,  every  available  space  in  the  great  auditorium  and  galleries 
of  the  Tabernacle  was  occupied  before  9:30.  Hundreds  of  people  who 
could  not  find  accommodations  in  the  Tabernacle  assembled  in  the  large 
Assembly  Hall  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds,  where  they  .listened  to  the 
proceedings  of  this  meeting  as  they  were  broadcast  by  radio. 

As  a  prelude  to  the  regular  Conference  services  an  hour's  program  of 
choral  and  organ  music  was  rendered  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
Organ,  from  9:30  to  10:30,  and  broadcast  by  radio  from  the  Tabernacle 
over  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System.  This  program,  which  originated 
over  Station  KSL  and  was  broadcast  throughout  the  nation — and  by 
short  wave  to  Europe — was  as  follows : 

"Arise,  O  Glorious  Zion" — Choir. 

"Largo"  (Handel)— Organ. 

"The  Palms"  (Faure)— Choir. 

"Rienzi  March"  (Wagner) — Organ. 

"Come  thou  O  Joy  of  Nations"  (Gates) — Choir. 

"Andante  Religioso"  (Thome)— Organ. 

"The  Morning  Breaks"  (Careless) — Choir. 

"Toccata  from  the  Widor  Symphony" — Organ. 

"Build  thee  more  Stately  Mansions"  (Farwell) — Choir. 

"The  Holy  City"  (Adams)— Organ. 

"Jesus  Only"  (Rotoli)— Choir. 

"Walter's  Prize  Song"  (Wagner) — Organ. 

"Thanks  be  to  God"  (Mendelssohn) — Choir. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  was  conducted  by  Anthony  C.  Lund.  Ed- 
ward P.  Kimball  played  the  organ  accompaniments,  and  Frank  W. 
Asper  played  the  organ  solo  presentations. 

At  the  close  of  the  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast  President  Heber  J. 
Grant  announced  that  the  Choir  and  congregation  would  sing  the  hymn, 
"Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn  the  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Winslow  Farr  Smith,  President  of  the  Ensign  Stake. 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Seldom  if  ever  have  I  enjoyed  a  conference  more  than  I  have  this. 
The  high  standard  set  at  the  opening  session  has  been  maintained 
at  each  succeeding  one.  Not  only  that,  but  the  meetings  that  have 
been  held  in  addition  to  the  regular  sessions  have  been  highly  in- 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


spiring,  beginning  with  the  meeting  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy  and  the  Mission  Presidents  last  Tuesday, 
and  continuing  to  the  educational  meeting  held  this  morning  at 
eight  o'clock.  That  session  last  night  in  which  were  assembled  over 
five  thousand  men  holding  the  priesthood  was  most  encouraging. 
Just  to  behold  that  army  was  an  inspiration.  I  think  this  conference 
will  take  its  place  among  the  most  impressive  conferences  ever  held 
in  the  Church,  in  its  timely  teaching,  in  its  spiritual  uplift,  in  the 
awakening  of  a  desire  to  live  better,  and  in  its  confirmation  of  the 
truth  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  wish  that  this  influence,  particularly  as  it  relates  to  the  evils  of 
tobacco  and  strong  drink  might  be  felt  all  over  our  nation  and  that 
the  people  would  be  guided  thereby,  as  I  sincerely  trust  that  the 
members  of  the  Church  will  be  guided  by  it. 

FACING  AN  IMPORTANT  QUESTION 

I  should  like  to  say  a  few  words  regarding  a  great  question  that 
is  related  to  the  general  theme  of  this  conference.  Our  nation  is 
facing  it.  and  we  as  part  of  that  nation  must  express  ourselves  re- 
garding it.  I  have  in  mind  the  question  of  the  repeal  of  the  Eigh- 
teenth Amendment  to  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States. 

"Once  to  every  man  and  nation  comes  the  moment  to  decide; 
In  the  strife  of  Truth  with  Falsehood,  for  the  good  or  evil  side; 
Some  great  cause,  God's  new  Messiah,  offering  each  the  bloom  or  blight, 
Parts  the  goats  upon  the  left  hand  and  the  sheep  upon  the  right, 
And  the  choice  goes  by  forever  'twixt  that  darkness  and  that  light." 

When  James  Russell  Lowell  wrote  those  lines  he  had  in  mind 
the  great  problem  of  slavery — "The  earth  born  Cyclops,  fellest  of  the 
giant  brood."  In  that  issue  the  people  of  the  United  States  chose 
sides  and  the  struggle  though  bitter  and  tragic  ended  in  driving  one 
form  of  slavery  from  our  shores  forever. 

Today  the  liquor  question,  another  earth-born  giant,  stalks 
through  the  land  and  the  question  of  how  best  to  shackle  him  is  now 
put  squarely  before  the  people. 

CHANGES  IN  PUBLIC  SENTIMENT 

Fewer  than  fifteen  years  have  passed  since  the  Eighteenth 
Amendment  was  ratified  by  the  largest  number  of  states  and  by  the 
largest  percentage  of  states  that  ever  ratified  any  amendment  to  the 
Constitution  in  the  entire  history  of  our  country. 

That  action  was  taken  as  the  cumulative  result  of  several  hun- 
dred years'  experience  with  the  evils  of  the  liquor  traffic.  Now  after 
a  little  more  than  a  decade  of  Prohibition,  because  of  a  few  difficul- 
ties in  enforcement,  many  people  cry  for  a  return  to  old  conditions. 
It  was  just  such  sudden  changes  in  the  public  opinion  and  acclaim 
that  made  James  Fitz  James  cry  out : 

"O  thou  many-headed  thing 
Who  would  wish  to  be  thy  king?" 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


91 


This  reversal  of  sentiment  is  due  in  general  to  one  of  two  condi- 
tions— perhaps  both.  Either  Prohibition  has  failed  to  achieve  the 
results  anticipated,  or  the  people  finding  themselves  in  such  desper- 
ate financial  straits  are  being  swept  off  their  feet  in  their  eagerness 
to  grasp  anything  which  offers  relief. 

When  the  world  war  broke  out  many  men  cried,  "Christianity 
has  failed."  Just  as  they  now  cry,  "Prohibition  has  failed."  Others 
answered  then  that  Christianity  had  never  been  tried,  that  it  was 
the  violation  of  Christian  principles  that  brought  on  the  war.  So  we 
answer  today  :  Prohibition  has  not  failed,  it  has  not  been  sufficiently 
tested.  If  public  sentiment  is  against  it,  Prohibition  cannot  be  en- 
forced, .but  if  the  majority  of  people  favor  it,  it  can  be  enforced.  Now 
we  are  engaged  in  the  struggle  to  test  that  sentiment. 

Three  reasons  why  the  Eighteenth  Amendment  should  not  be 
repealed : 

RESULTS  OF  HONEST  INVESTIGATION 

Because  Prohibition  is  the  most  effective  means  of  dealing  with 
the  liquor  evil.  I  believe  that  the  results  of  honest  investigation  and 
unbiased  observation  prove  the  truth  of  this  assertion.  For  example, 
arrests  for  drunkenness  in  fifty  leading  cities,  statistics  of  which 
were  collected  by  Judge  Gemmill  of  the  Municipal  Court  of  Chicago, 
fell  from  302,071  in  1917  to  110,149  in  1920— a  decrease  of  63%. 

Mr.  Robert  Carradini  made  a  survey  of  185  cities,  the  complete 
statistics  of  which  show  that  the  average  annual  number  of  arrests 
for  intoxication  per  thousand  of  population  in  the  four  years  preced- 
ing 1917  was  23,4%  and  that  number  in  1920  had  fallen  to  8.7%,  a 
reduction  of  62  % . 

Figures  presented  before  the  sub-committee  of  the  Committee 
on  Judiciary,  United  States  Senate,  April,  1926,  showed  data  cover- 
ing statistics  in  626  cities  from  1917  to  1920.  The  number  of  arrests 
for  drunkenness  in  all  these  626  cities  was  less  than  36%  as  great 
in  1920  as  in  1917.  From  the  same  authority  we  learn  that  prison 
commitments  decreased  59%  and  there  was  a  decrease  of  crime  of 
over  40%. 

It  is  true  that  since  that  time  anti-prohibitionists  can  cite  sta- 
tistics showing:  (1)  An  increase  of  arrests  for  drunkenness  since 
1920.  (2)  An  increase  of  deaths  from  alcoholism  since  1920.  (3) 
An  increase  in  insanity  since  1920.  They  can  show  further  that  yr 
1924  the  arrests  for  drunkenness  were  double  what  they  were  in 
1920,  but  even  then  they  were  less  than  three-fourths  of  what  they 
were  before  Prohibition. 

MORAL  AND  ECONOMIC  BENEFITS 

Early  in  1922  the  Manufacturers'  Record  sent  a  questionnaire  to 
hundreds  of  leading  men  of  affairs  including  large  manufacturers, 
employers  of  labor,  bankers,  and  university  professors  asking  their 
judgment  about  Prohibition.    98J/>  %  favored  Prohibition  in  some 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

form.  Some  of  the  moral  and  economic  benefits  as  they  appeared 
to  these  men  follow : 

Happier  homes  with  more  contentment.  Cleaner  and  better 
social  life. 

Increased  purchasing  power  of  homes,  food  and  clothes  for 
women  and  children. 

A  change  in  the  habits  and  expenditures  of  the  workers.  Men 
are  buying  their  own  homes,  have  savings  accounts  and  own  auto- 
mobiles. 

A  tendency  toward  thrift,  contentment,  comfort  and  happiness. 
Families  better  cared  for,  and  increased  savings  deposits. 

More  and  cleaner  recreation.  Picture  shows,  parks,  outdoor 
excursions. 

Less  loss  of  time.    Fewer  accidents,  less  incompetence,  less 
carelessness,  less  inefficiency,  better  work,  better  homes. 
Children  and  young  people  getting  a  better  education. 
School  attendance  improved.    Public  and  Sunday  School. 
Improvement  in  community  morale. 

An  incalculable  economic  and  moral  blessing  to  millions  of  our 
people  and  to  the  nation  as  a  whole. 

THE  FUNDAMENTAL  PRINCIPLE  IN  INDIVIDUAL  GOVERNMENT 

In  my  advocacy  for  Prohibition  I  keep  ever  in  mind  the  import- 
ance of  that  great  principle  which  Joseph  Smith  enunciated  when  he 
was  asked  how  he  governed  his  people  so  well.  He  answered :  "I 
teach  them  correct  principles  and  they  govern  themselves."  That 
is  the  fundamental  principle  in  the  United  States  in  individual  gov- 
ernment and  when  an  individual  becomes  converted  to  a  condition 
he  can  live  up  to  it.  When  we  get  the  majority  of  the  people  con- 
verted to  a  condition  that  will  favor  temperance  the  law  will  be  en- 
forced. 

But  there  is  another  condition  also.  We  are  living  in  a  democ- 
racy. The  majority  of  the  people  determine  the  kind  of  laws  by 
which  the  people  should  be  governed.  That  being  true  we  are  now 
facing  a  proposition  to  determine  what  the  majority  of  the  people 
desire.  I  believe  that  the  American  people  desire  temperance.  I 
have  given  one  reason  why  I  think  that  the  retention  of  the  Eigh- 
teenth Amendment  will  foster  and  favor  temperance. 

A  STEP  BACKWARD 

There  is  a  second  reason  which  I  will  just  name  and  that  is  the 
proposed  amendment  offers  no  new  remedy  for  existing  evils.  If 
the  Twenty-first  Amendment  is  ratified  the  question  of  Prohibition 
is  thrown  back  upon  the  states  and  that  is  one  step  backward  in  the 
cause  of  temperance.  The  smaller  the  prohibitive  area,  the  greater 
the  difficulty  of  enforcement.  The  wider  the  area,  the  more  effective 
the  enforcement. 

You  who  were  on  the  firing  line  in  this  Prohibition  fight  will 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


93 


remember  how  we  first  began  to  make  towns  dry,  then  counties,  then 
states,  and  finally  the  question  was  made  nation-wide.  Now  to  step 
back  and  go  into  the  states  as  proposed  by  the  Twenty-first  Amendment 
is  merely  to  take  a  step  backward. 

IN  NEED  OF  MOKE  SPIRITUALITY 

A  third  reason  for  my  opposing  the  repeal  of  the  Eighteenth 
Amendment  is  this : 

The  world  today  perhaps  as  never  before  needs  more  spiritu- 
ality. Booze  and  depravity  mingle  together  harmoniously,  but  booze 
and  spirituality,  never. 

In  an  excellent  editorial  last  Thursday  morning  one  of  our 
daily  papers  impressively  said :  "Excessive  materialism  stands  in- 
dicted in  the  minds  of  men.  There  needs  to  be  inaugurated  a  new 
era  of  mutual  accord,  a  return  to  an  appreciation  of  the  finer 
things  of  life,  to  the  basic  principles  of  human  existence." 

No  one  will  contend  that  intoxicating  liquors  contribute  spirit- 
uality either  to  the  individual  or  to  the  nation.  Nearly  everyone  con- 
cedes that  intoxicants  develop  the  baser,  not  the  finer  things  of  life. 

"they  shall  not  pass" 

Sixteen  years  ago  there  was  a  terrific  battle  being  waged  at 
Verdun.  On  June  7,  1916,  the  French  vacated  the  city  Damloup  un- 
der the  hill  on  which  Fort  Vaux  was  situated.  The  defense  of  this 
Fort  was  one  of  outstanding  heroism,  and  Major  Raynal,  the  com- 
mander, was  treated  with  every  honor  as  a  prisoner  of  the  Germans. 

Fort  Vaux  had  fallen  and  other  outer  lines  were  broken  through, 
but  there  was  an  inner  circle  of  defense  that  was  invincible.  The 
words  of  General  Petain,  "They  shall  not  pass,"  thrilled  the  heart 
and  nerved  the  arm  of  every  French  soldier.  For  more  than  two 
long  months  the  Germans  hammered  and  battered  at  that  inner  de- 
fense in  the  most  terrific  conflict  in  the  annals  of  war.  In  the  last 
desperate  assault  of  the  Crown  Prince,  40,000  German  soldiers  were 
slaughtered  in  a  hopeless  effort  to  break  through  the  French  curtain 
of  fire.  The  inner  circle  of  defense  was  impregnable.  The  main 
line  held. 

Today  we  witness  the  legalization  of  beer  by  the  United  States 
government.  Qne  of  our  outer  defences  has  fallen  and  the  enemy 
spurred  on  by  victory  will  attack  others.  But  the  inner  defence,  the 
18th.  Amendment,  must  be  defended  at  all  costs.  Let  the  words  of 
General  Petain,  "They  shall  not  pass,"  strengthen  every  heart  and  nerve 
every  hand  in  defense  of  this  part  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States. 

god's  word  given  authoritatively 

In  addition  to  the  fact  that  we  believe  that  Prohibition  is  the 
best  means  of  fighting  the  evil,  that  the  proposal  of  the  Twenty-first 
Amendment  offers  no  other  remedy  which  we  do  not  have,  and  that 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  cause  of  spirituality  demands  that  we  retain  it,  I  will  add  in  con- 
clusion this  thought : 

Out  of  the  high  plane  of  spirituality  comes  the  message  from 
the  President  of  the  Church  given  to  the  world  that  intoxicating 
liquors,  strong  drink,  and  tobacco  are  not  good  for  man.  That  is 
God's  word  given  authoritatively  and  on  that  truth  we  stand.  I 
know  I  need  not  urge  this  upon  you  people.  I  believe  with  President 
Ivins  that  Utah  will  stand  firm  in  accordance  with  its  vote  years 
ago  in  ratifying  the  Eighteenth  Aniendment. 

"For  right  is  right  since  God  is  God, 

And  right  the  day  must  win  ; 
To  doubt  would  mean  disloyalty, 

To  falter  would  be  sin." 

God  help  us  to  stand  true  to  the  principles  of  right  as  we  know 
them  in  our  souls  and  as  God  has  revealed  them  to  us,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  vocal  solo,  "The. Blind  Plowman,"  was  sung  by  Melvin  Watson. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

I  have  been  profoundly  impressed,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  with 
the  proceedings  of  the  Conference.  From  the  beginning  until  the  present 
one  thought  has  been  uppermost  in  my  mind,  a  thought  so  fundamental 
in  the  Church  that  I  have  written  some  notes  from  which  I  wish  to  call 
your  attention  to  it.  At  this  time,  when  moments  are  so  precious,  I  have 
endeavored  to  concentrate,  and  for  that  reason,  as  I  say,  I  prepared  these 
notes. 

JOSEPH  smith's  first  vision 

It  was  in  the  early  spring  of  1820,  one  hundred  and  thirteen  years 
ago,  that  Joseph  Smith,  who  at  that  time  was  in  his  fifteenth  year, 
received  his  first  heavenly  manifestation.  In  the  vision  he  saw  the  Father 
and  the  Son,  and  as  one  of  those  glorious  personages  pronounced  his 
name  the  boy  heard  that  divine  injunction,  given  nearly  two  thousand 
years  before  to  the  people  of  the  American  continent:  "This  is  my1 
beloved  Son.   Hear  him." 

He  had  gone  to  the  Lord  for  a  specific  purpose.  He  was  in  doubt 
as  to  which  of  the  conflicting  creeds,  each  professing  faith  in  Jesus  Christ, 
was  accepted  by  the  Lord  and  which  he  should  join. 

The  answer  to  his  question  was  definite.  The  personage  addressed 
said  to  him  that  he  was  to  join  none  of  them;  that  they  had  all  gone 
astray ;  that  they  worshiped  him  with  their  lips,  but  their  hearts  were 
removed  far  from  him,  and  they  taught  for  doctrine  the  commandments 
of  men. 

A  MESSENGER  SENT  FROM  GOD 

Three  years  elapsed.  The  boy  was  approaching  manhood.  During 
the  years  which  had  passed,  in  the  face  of  persecution  and  ridicule,  he 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


95 


had  maintained  that  he  had  seen  a  vision  and  had  heard  the  voices  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son. 

On  the  twenty-first  da}-  of  September,  after  Joseph  had  retired 
for  the  night,  he  again  engaged  in  prayer  to  his  Father  in  heaven.  In 
response  to  his  petition  he  says : 

"While  I  was  thus  in  the  act  of  calling  upon  God,  I  discovered  a  light  appearing 
in  my  room,  which  continued  to  increase  until  the  room  was  lighter  than  at  noon- 
day, when  immediately  a  personage  appeared  at  my  bedside,  standing  in  the  air, 
for  his  feet  did  not  touch  the  floor.  He  had  on  a  loose  robe  of  exquisite  whiteness. 
*  *  *  His  hands  were  naked,  and  his  arms  also,  a  little  above  the  wrist ;  so  also  were 
his  feet  naked,  as  were  his  legs  a  little  above  the  ankles.  *  *  *  His  whole  person  was 
glorious  beyond  description,  and  his  countenance  truly  like  lightning." 

He  spoke  to  Joseph  telling  him  that  he  was  a  messenger  sent  from 
the  presence  of  God,  and  that  his  name  was  Moroni.;  that  the  Lord  had 
a  work  for  him  to  do,  and  that  his  name  should  be  had  for  good  and 
evil  among  all  nations. 

The  messenger  declared  the  existence  of  a  book,  written  upon  plates 
of  metal  which  contained  the  history  of  the  ancient  inhabitants  of  the 
American  continent — the  Book  of  Mormon. 

QUOTES  PROPHET  JOEL 

Among  other  scripture  quoted  by  the  messenger  was  the  following 
from  the  prophet  Joel,  which  he  said  had  not  yet  been  fulfilled,  but  was 
soon  to  be : 

"I  will  pour  out  my  spirit  upon  all  flesh ;  and  your  sons  and  your  daughters 
shall  prophesy,  your  old  men  shall  dream  dreams,  your  young  men  shall  see  visions  ; 

"And  also  upon  the  servants  and  upon  the  handmaids  in  those  days  will  I  pour 
out  my  spirit. 

"And  I  will  shew  wonders  in  the  heavens  and  in  the  earth,  blood  and  fire,  and 
pillars  of  smoke. 

"The  sun  shall  be  turned  into  darkness,  and  the  moon  into  blood,  before  the 
great  and  terrible  day  of  the  Lord  come. 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  whosoever,  shall  call  on  the  name  of  the 
Lord  shall  be  delivered ;  for  in  Mount  Zion  and  in  Jerusalem  shall  be  deliverance,  as 
the  Lord  hath  said,  and  in  the  remnant  whom  the  Lord  shall  call." 

RECEIVES  PLATES 

Four  years  after  the  visitation  of  Moroni  on  September  22nd,  1827, 
the  plates  referred  to  were  entrusted  to  Joseph  Smith,  and  on  April  7th, 
104  years  ago,  he  began  the  translation  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  Oliver 
Cowdery  acting  as  his  scribe. 

AUTHORITY  RESTORED 

As  the  translation  proceeded  it  was  discovered  that  the  people  to 
whom  the  record  referred  practiced  the  ordinance  of  baptism  by  im- 
mersion for  the  remission  of  sins.  Following  his  usual  custom,  Joseph 
Smith,  with  Oliver  Cowdery,  retired  to  the  woods  and  they  engaged  in 
prayer.  The  answer  came  in  a  flood  of  light  from  heaven.  John  the 
Baptist  stood  bef  ore  them,  and  laying  his  hands  upon  them  said : 

"Upon  you,  my  fellow  servants,  in  the  name  of  Messiah  I  confer  the  Priest- 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


hood  of  Aaron,  which  holds  the  keys  of  the  ministering  of  angels,  and  of  the  gospel 
of  repentance,  and  of  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins ;  and  this  shall 
never  be  taken  again  from  the  earth,  until  the  sons  of  Levi  do  offer  again  an  offering 
unto  the  Lord  in  righteousness." 

He  told  them  that  this  Aaronic  priesthood  had  not  the  power  of 
laying  on  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  but  that  this  should 
be  conferred  later. 

With  the  restoration  of  the  Aaronic  priesthood  and  the  greater 
Melchizedek  priesthood,  which  was  later  conferred  as  promised,  au- 
thority to  speak  and  act  for  God  was  restored,  with  all  of  the  keys 
which  existed  in  the  primitive  church. 

THE    CHURCH  ORGANIZED 

On  the  6th  day  of  April,  1830,  one  hundred  and  three  years  ago, 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  legally  organized 
as  the  law  required  that  it  should  be,  and  the  proclamation  of  the  re- 
stored Gospel  was  heralded  to  the  people  of  the  world. 

One  of  the  chief  criticisms  which  opponents  of  the  Church  have 
advanced  in  their  opposition  to  it  is  that  it  claims  authority  which  comes 
direct  from  God  and  that  this  authority  was  restored  by  men  who  had 
lived  and  passed  from  mortal  existence  long  ago. 

BY  DIVINE  AUTHORITY 

Xo  objection  can  be  advanced  by  a  person  who  is  familiar  with  the 
life  and  ministry  of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  teachings  of  the  Bible,  to  the 
doctrines  taught  by  the  Church.  It  is  the  declaration  which  the  Church 
makes  that  it  is  by  divine  authority  that  it  came  into  existence  and 
continues  to  exist,  authority  which  came  direct  from  God  our  Father 
through  Jesus  Christ  his  Son,  the  agency  employed  in  the  restoration 
being  messengers  sent  from  the  presence  of  our  Father  in  heaven  to 
Joseph  Smith,  the  medium  through  whom  it  was  carried  to  the  people 
of  the  world. 

Why  should  the  manner  of  the  restoration  appear  a  strange  thing 
and  be  a  stumbling  block  to  people  who  profess  acceptance  of  the  Bible 
as  the  guide  by  which  their  faith  and  the  conduct  of  their  lives  are  to 
be  governed?  Has  it  not  always  been  so?  Is  the  manner  of  the  restora- 
tion different  from  that  which  the  Father  has  always  adopted  in  com- 
municating his  will  to  his  children  here  upon  earth?  Let  us  examine  and 
see. 

HEAVENLY  MESSENGERS  SENT  TO  EARTH 

To  refer  to  the  number  of  times  and  the  various  purposes  for  which 
the  Lord  has  spoken  to  the  inhabitants  of  our  earth,  to  the  occasions 
when  messengers,  referred  to  as  angels,  have  been  sent  to  earth,  would 
require  much  more  time  than  is  at  my  disposal. 

From  Adam  to  Noah,  from  Noah  to  Abraham,  and  from  Abraham 
to  Christ,  the  Lord  has  at  divers  times  and  under  different  cir- 
cumstances spoken  to  us,  always  calling  us  back  to  him,  warning 
us  to  beware  of  the  seducing  influence  of  Lucifer,  the  son  of  Perdi- 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


97 


tipn,  the  Devil,  who  was  cast  down  from  the  presence  of  God,  who 
is  the  enemy  of  all  that  is  good,  and  who  is  here  upon  earth,  his  sole 
ambition  being  to  lead  men  and  women  away  from  Christ  and  reduce 
them  to  his  own  miserable  condition  of  unhappiness. 

ACCOMPANIED  BY  LIGHT 

It  will  be  observed  that  where  the  presence  of  the  Lord  is  manifested 
it  is  accompanied  by  light;  it  is  the  brightness  of  the  sun,  the  glory  of, a 
perfect  day.  The  presence  or  influence  of  the  tempter  brings  with  it 
darkness,  clouds,  depression  and  ultimate  death,  for  he  is  the  author  of 
death. 

The  angel  of  the  Lord  appeared  to  Moses  in  a  bush  which  appeared 
to  burn  but  was  not  consumed.  It  was  a  living  light  which  radiated  from 
the  glory  of  the  person,  and  not  a  consuming  fire. 

The  angel  who  appeared  to  Zacharias  and  announced  the  birth  of 
John  the  Baptist,  declared  himself  to  be  Gabriel  who  stood  in  the  presence 
of  God.  The  Bible  tells  us  that  this  same  messenger — Gabriel — was  sent 
from  God  to  the  Virgin  Mary  to  announce  to  her  that  she  was  to  become 
the  mother  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world. 

On  that  eventful  night,  while  the  shepherds  watched  over  their 
flocks  upon  the  hills  of  Judea,  light  suddenly  appeared  in  the  heavens, 
the  angel  of  the  Lord  appeared  unto  them  and  they  were  sore  afraid. 
But  the  angel  said  unto  them : 

"Fear  not:  for  behold,  I  bring  you  good  tidings  of  great  joy,  which  shall  be 
to  all  people. 

"For  unto  you  is  born  this  day  in  the  city  of  David  a  Savior,  which  is  Christ 
the  Lord,  *  *  * 

"And  suddenly  there  was  with  the  angel  a  multitude  of  the  heavenly  host 
praising  God,  and  saying, 

"Glory  to  God  in  the  highest,  and  on  earth  peace,  good  will  toward  men. 

We  are  told  in  the  Bible  that  "after  six  days  Jesus  taketh  Peter,  James  and 
John,  his  brother,  and  bringeth  them  up  into  an  high  mountain  apart. 

"And  was  transfigured  before  them :  and  his  face  did  shine  as  the  sun,  and  his 
raiment  was  white  as  the  light. 

"And,  behold,  there  appeared  unto  them  Moses  and  Elias  talking  with  him. 

"Then  answered  Peter,  and  said  unto  Jesus,  Lord,  it  is  good  for  us  to  be  here : 
if  thou  wilt,  let  us  make  here  three  tabernacles ;  one  for  thee,  and  one  for  Moses, 
and  one  for  Elias." 

In  passing  let  me  remark  that  Moses  lived  more  than  1500  years 
before  the  birth  of  Christ,  and  Elias  nearly  1000  years. 

"While  he  yet  spake,  behold  a  bright  cloud  overshadowed  them :  and  behold 
a  voice  out  of  the  cloud,  which  said,  This  is  my  beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am  well 
pleased;  hear  ye  him." — That  same  eternal  message. 

"And  when  the  disciples  heard  it,  they  fell  on  their  face,  and  were  sore  afraid. 

"And  Jesus  came  and  touched  them,  and  said,  Arise,  and  be  not  afraid." 

Paul's  experience 

The  Apostle  Paul  was  an  educated  Jew.  He  tells  us  that  he  had 
taught  and  had  lived  the  life  of  the  s'trictest  sect  among  the  Jews,  a 
Pharisee.  He  was  a  persecutor  of  the  church,  even  consenting  to  the 
death  of  some  of  its  members.    He  tells  us  that  as  he  journeyed  to 


i 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Damascus,  with  authority  and  commission  to  proceed  with  his  plan  of 
persecution,  he  saw  a  light  from  heaven,  above  the  brightness  of  the  sun, 
shining  about  him  and  those  who  journeyed  with  him.  And  when  they 
had  all  fallen  to  the  earth  he  heard  a  voice  from  heaven  saying  in  the 
Hebrew  tongue:  "Saul,  Saul,  why  persecutest  thou  me?"  Paul  an- 
swered, "Who  art  thou,  Lord  ?"  and  the  answer  came :  "I  am  Jesus  whom 
thou  persecutest." 

Again  the  light  from  heaven,  again  the  prostration  of  those  upon 
whom  it  fell,  again  the  voice  of  Jehovah  revealing  the  truth  to  an  un- 
believing world  through  one  whom  he  had  chosen,  unconsciously  to 
Paul,  to  be  his  special  witness  to  the  Gentiles. 

AN  ANGEL  APPEARS  UNTO  JOHN 

Among  the  more  important  revelations  given  by  God  to  man  is  that 
known  as  the  Apocalypse,  or  Revelation  of  St.  John,  the  divine,  the 
beloved  disciple  of  our  Lord.  John  was  on  the  Island  of  Patmos,  in  the 
Aegean  Sea,  at  the  time,  where  he  had  been  banished  by  decree  of  Rome 
and  made  to  work  in  the  mines  or  stone  quarries.  It  was  under  these 
circumstances  that  this  sublime  revelation  was  given.   It  is : 

"The  revelation  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  God  gave  unto  him,  to  show  unto  his 
servants  things  which  must  shortly  come  to  pass ;  and  he  sent  and  signified  it  by 
his  angel  to  his  servant  John." 

Then  follows  this  wonderful  revelation,  which  makes  known  the 
past,  deals  with  the  present,  and  foretells  the  future  as  no  other  revelation 
in  the  Bible  does.   When  the  messenger  had  concluded  his  errand,  John 

says: 

"And  I  John  saw  these  things  and  heard  them.  And  when  I  had  heard  and  seen, 
I  fell  down  to  worship  before  the  feet  of  the  angel  which  showed  me  these  things. 

"Then  saith  he  unto  me,  See  thou  do  it  not:  for  I  am  thy  fellow  servant, 
and,  of  thy  brethren  the  prophets,  and  of  them  which  keep  the  sayings  of  this 
book :  worship  God." 

DIVINE  COMMUNICATIONS  FORETOLD 

My  purpose  in  referring  to  the  various  scriptures  from  which  I 
have  quoted — and  there  are  many  more  of  them — is  to  call  attention  to 
the  fact  that  communication  between  our  Father  in  heaven  and  his 
children  who  are  here  upon  earth,  is  not  an  unreasonable  thing ;  in  fact, 
in  consideration  of  the  words  of  the  prophets  and  the  Redeemer  himself, 
it  was  to  be  expected. 

Jesus,  when  asked  by  his  disciples,  What  shall  be  the  sign  of  thy 
coming  ?,  declared  that  before  his  coming  the  gospel  of  the  kingdom 
would  be  preached  in  all  the  world  as  a  witness  to  all  people. 

John,  the  beloved  disciple,  to  whom  reference  has  been  made,  defi- 
nitely declares  the  manner  in  which  the  restoration  is  to  be  effected 
in  the  following  words : 

"I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting  Gospel 
to  preach  to  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation,  and  kindred  and 
tongue,  and  people." 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


99 


IN  A  FLOOD  OF  LIGHT 

One  of  the  peculiarities  attendant  upon  the  appearance  of  a  mes- 
senger sent  from  the  presence  of  God  is  that  he  comes  in  a  flood  of 
heavenly  light. 

As  Moses  tended  the  flocks  of  his  father-in-law,  Jethro,  on  Mount 
Horeb,  the  Bible  tells  us,  an  angel  of  the  Lord  appeared  to  him  in  a 
flame  of  fire  out  of  the  midst  of  the  bush,  and  the  bush  burned  with  fire 
and  was  not  consumed. 

As  Paul  journeyed  toward  Damascus,  a  light  from  heaven,  brighter 
than  the  sun,  descended  upon  him  and  those  who  were  with  him,  and 
they  fell  to  the  earth.  From  the  midst  of  the  light  he  heard  the  voice 
of  the  Lord. 

As  the  shepherds  kept  watch  over  their  flocks  by  night  on  the  hills 
of  Judea,  a  light — the  glory  of  the  Lord — shone  around  them  and  they 
were  sore  afraid  as  the  angel  of  the  Lord  announced  to  them  the  birth 
of  a  Savior,  who  was  Christ  the  Lord. 

Let  us  return  for  a  moment  to  Joseph  Smith.  As  he  offered  his 
first  prayer,  when  about  to  succumb  to  the  powers  of  darkness  which 
sought  to  overwhelm  him,  he  says  that  a  pillar  of  light,  above  the  bright- 
ness of  the  sun,  fell  upon  him,  as  he  saw  and  heard  the  Father  and  the 
Son.  When  the  vision  terminated  he  says:  "When  I  came  to  myself 
I  found  myself  lying  upon  my  back,  looking  up  into  heaven." 

Again  with  the  appearance  of  the  Angel  Moroni  the  room  in  which 
Joseph  slept  became  lighter  than  at  noonday.  With  the  departure  of  the 
messenger  the  room  again  became  dark. 

John  the  Baptist,  who  restored  the  Aaronic  priesthood,  descended 
in  a  cloud  of  light. 

IN  HARMONY  WITH  REASON  AND  TRUTH 

It  was  not  because  of  his  familiarity  with  the  scriptures  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  capable  of  formulating  a  plan  of  restoration,  organization  and 
administration  so  completely  in  harmony  with  the  revealed  word  of  the 
Lord.  The  knowledge  came  to  him  little  by  little,  line  upon  line,  precept 
after  precept,  as  the  Lord  revealed  it  to  him.  The  story  of  the  restoration 
has  withstood  the  ridicule  of  the  ignorant  and  the  criticism  of  the  learned 
for  more  than  a  century,  without  detection  of  an  error  in  the  plan.  It  is 
in  harmony  with  the  revealed  will  of  God  and  the  reason  of  man.  In 
humility  and  with  full  consciousness  of  the  responsibility  involved  we 
reaffirm  that  the  manner  of  the  restoration  as  referred  to  is  true. 

TRUTH  UNCHANGEABLE 

Truth  remains  the  same  throughout  the  ages.  Our  surroundings 
may  change,  as  they  have  done  during  the  past  century — a  century  which 
has  brought  to  us  development  in  science,  in  invention  and  worldly 
knowledge  greater  than  all  the  centuries  that  have  preceded  it,  until  we 
find  ourselves  living  in  a  new  world.  But  God's  revealed  truth  is  the  same, 
and  it  will  be  unchanged  through  the  eternities  to  come.  He  is  the  same 
good  Heavenly  Father  who  walked  and  talked  with  Adam,  who  preserved 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  human  family  through  Noah,  who  called  Abraham  and  entered  into 
covenant  with  him.  The  same  who  sent  his  Only  Begotten  Son  to  earth, 
with  power  to  break  the  band  of  death  with  which  Lucifer  held  us 
bound,  and  redeemed  us  to  everlasting  life. 

It  is  through  God  our  Father  that  the  gospel  of  salvation  has  been 
restored,  Christ  our  Lord,  his  Only  Begotten  Son,  being  the  agent  through 
whom  he  acts,  and  he  in  turn  communicates  the  will  of  the  Father  to  us 
by  messengers  sent  from  his  presence.  He  is  the  author  of  this  intricate 
and  yet  simple  organization  which  we  refer  to  as  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  It  is  by  authority  from  him  that  we  exer- 
cise the  gift  of  the  holy  priesthood. 

FOUNDER  OF  THE  GOVERNMENT 

Just  as  our  Father  in  heaven,  through  Christ  his  Son,  is  the  founder 
of  the  Church,  so  is  he  the  founder  of  the  government  by  which  we  are 
— or  should  be  if  we  are  not — controlled  in  civil  affairs.  He  it  was 
who  brought  the  Pilgrim  fathers  and  those  who  followed  after  to  the 
shores  of  New  England.  He  has  said  that  he  established  the  Constitution 
of  our  country  by  the  hands  of  wise  men  whom  he  raised  up  for  that  very 
purpose,  and  redeemed  the  land  by  the  shedding  of  blood. 

Both  the  Church  and  the  government  have  experienced  periods  oi 
deep  affliction  since  their  establishment.  Both  have  been  assailed  by 
enemies  from  without  and  foes  within  which  have  threatened  disruption. 
Each  in  time  of  trial  has  found  strong  hearts  and  arms  to  sustain  it. 

CONFUSION  REIGNS 

Never  before  has  either  the  state  or  the  Church  been  confronted 
with  circumstances  more  pregnant  of  good  and  evil  than  at  the  present 
time,  when  more  ominous  clouds  have  hung  over  a  troubled  world. 
Confusion  reigns  among  the  nations,  our  own  included.  The  very 
elements  combine  to  add  to  the  uncertainty  and  distress. 

To  refer  in  detail  even  briefly  to  the  present  condition  of  the  people 
of  this  troubled  world  of  ours  and  the  causes  which  have  brought  us 
to  our  present  condition  of  tribulation,  is  not  my  intention.  The  great 
World  War,  the  most  wicked,  unjustifiable,  unnecessary  war  the  world 
has  ever  known,  laid  the  foundation  for  it.  The  monetary  cost  of  the 
war  left  the  world  bankrupt.  In  our  own  country  it  was  followed  by 
an  era  of  extravagance,  selfishness  and  money  madness,  the  like  of 
which  had  never  before  been  known.  And  the  war  still  goes  on.  Not 
a  war  of  swords  and  bayonets,  but  a  war  of  the  nations  for  possession 
of  a  small  pile  of  gold,  inadequate  if  we  possessed  it  all,  to  pay  the 
mortgages  on  the  farms  of  our  country  and  the  debt  of  the  men  who 
owe  them,  and  yet  that  pile  of  gold  is  the  only  money  of  ultimate  redemp- 
tion recognized  by  the  civilized  nations  today. 

DELIVERANCE  WILL  COME 

You  need  not  call  our  attention  to  our  unfortunate  condition,  you 
are  saying  to  yourselves,  we  are  all  too  well  aware  of  that.  Tell  us 
how  to  extricate  ourselves  from  it.    If  I  had  the  wisdom  to  do  that  I 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS  101 


would  be  the  happiest  man  in  the  world.  That  we  will  survive  and 
emerge  from  it  a  wiser,  happier  and  better  people  I  am  confident,  what- 
ever our  suffering  may  be  before  we  win  the  victory.  It  will  not  come 
through  the  Sovietism  of  Russia,  the  Socialism  of  France,  the  Fascists 
of  Italy,  nor  the  Nazis  of  Hitler.  It  will  not  come  by  the  brewing  and 
disposition  of  more  beer  or  the  manufacture  and  drinking  of  more  wine. 
It  will  not  come  from  the  manufacture  and  distribution  of  more  cigarets 
for  our  boys  and  girls  to  smoke.  It  will  come  to  our  country,  if  it  is  to 
come  at  all,  through  the  united  effort  of  the  American  people,  whose  soul 
I  believe  will  turn  to  the  Lord. 

Deliverance  will  not  come  by  a  miracle  from  heaven,  but  I  believe 
the  Lord  will  endow  us  with  wisdom  and  with  his  help  we  will  work 
out  our  deliverance.  If  the  Lord  for  the  sake  of  ten  righteous  men 
would  spare  Sodom  and  Gomorrah,  will  he  not  spare  this  government, 
which  he  declares  he  has  established,  for  the  sake  of  the  many  thousands 
of  honest  souls  which  make  up  its  citizenship? 

CONCERNING  THE  CHURCH 

What  of  the  Church?  We  call  upon  its  members,  as  we  have  always 
done,  to  turn  to  the  Lord  for  succor.  Remember  the  words  which 
I  have  quoted  from  the  Prophet  Joel,  words  which  had  not  been  fulfilled 
at  the  time,  but  were  soon  to  be.  He  has  promised  that  if  we  will  do  this 
he  will  return  to  us. 

In  the  words  of  the  Prophet  Joel  which  I  have  quoted :  "In  Mount 
Zion" — which  is  here  in  this  land  of  Joseph — "and  in  Jerusalem  de- 
liverance will  be  found,"  and  his  word  will  not  fail. 

My  faith  in  the  membership  of  the  Church  is  unshaken.  By  faith, 
with  works  added,  we  will  carry  the  Church  through  to  glorious  triumph, 
regardless  of  the  sacrifices  which  may  be  required.  We  dug  ourselves  into 
our  present  condition  and  with  the  help  of  the  Lord  and  the  loyal  support 
of  the  government,  both  Church  and  state  will  emerge  stronger  in  faith, 
and  more  powerful  in  influence  than  we  have  ever  before  been. 

These  are  the,  thoughts  which  have  been  running  through  my  mind, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  during  these  services.  I  bear  witness  to  you 
that  the  story  I  have  told  is  true.  The  restoration  was  by  divine  inter- 
position of  God  our  Father.  It  will  persist,  it  will  not  be  destroyed  again 
as  has  been  the  case  in  ages  which  have  passed.  God  grant  that  we  may 
have  faith  to  hold  fast  to  the  "rod  of  iron,"  give  our  loyal  support  to  the 
government ;  and  as  I  said  last  night  at  the  priesthood  meeting,  the  gov- 
ernment needs  us  and  we  need  the  government.  Both  are  everlasting 
truth. 

God  bless  you,  I  pray,  through  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  may  I  have  your  faith  and  your  prayers  on 
this  occasion?  I  believe  I  voice  the  feelings  of  all  of  you  when  I  say, 
thank  God  for  our  choir,  for  its  leader,  and  for  the  organists.  May  I  say 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


thank  the  Lord  also  for  the  organ,  built  when  we  were  in  our  infancy, 
unexcelled  at  the  time  and  unrivalled  still  in  the  spirit  and  the  hope  of 
its  message.  We  who  have  been  in  f  oreign  lands  and  have  had  its  con- 
soling tones  in  our  midnight  hours  of  anxiety,  know  something  of  its 
message  of  peace.  We  know  something  of  the  way  in  which  the  Lord's 
word  and  his  music  may  be  made  to  fill  the  earth. 

PAYS  TRIBUTE  TO  SENATOR  SMOOT 

I  want  to  take  this  occasion  to  thank  my  Heavenly  Father,  as  a 
member  of  this  Church,  for  the  return  amongst  us  of  one  whom  I  regard 
as  the  greatest  missionary  of  his  own  generation.  I  refer  to  the  Honor- 
able Reed  Smoot. 

I  went  East  to  live  at  about  the  time  he  went  into  the  Senate.  I 
know  something  of  the  feeling  that  then  existed  toward  us.  I  have 
seen  the  smile  of  disdain  and  the  curl  of  the  lip  of  scorn  at  the  statement 
that  one  was  a  Mormon.  During  the  thirty  years  of  Senator  Smoot's 
tenure  of  office,  I  have  lived  a  great  part  of  my  time  in  the  East  in  the 
same  environment  to  which  both  of  us  went  when  he  went  into  the 
Senate.  I  want  now  to  say  to  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  that,  judged 
at  any  rate  by  my  human  wisdom  and  understanding,  no  other  contribut- 
ing cause  equals  that  of  the  service  which  he  has  furnished,  to  the  change 
that  has  come  among  the  people  of  the  earth  who  now  honor  and  respect 
where  formerly  they  scorned  and  despised.  Furthermore  Senator  Smoot 
has  given  to  his  country  a  devoted  service  rarely  equalled  and  never 
excelled. 

FEELS  RESPONSIBILITY 

I  am  keenly  aware  of  and  am  deeply  grateful  for  the  great  honor 
the  people  have  bestowed  upon  me.  I  am  also  aware  that  a  responsibility 
equally  great  comes  with  that  honor.  May  I  say  that  just  now  I  am 
thinking  more  about  the  responsibility  than  about  the  honor. 

Should  any  of  you  have  hopes  about  my  work  in  this  high  office 
to  which  I  am  called,  I  trust  I  shall  not  too  much  disappoint  you.  If 
any  of  you  have  misgivings,  I  can  only  say  that  your  misgivings  can 
hardly  be  greater  than  my  own.  I  am  keenly  conscious  of  my  own 
deficiencies.    I  come  late  in  life  to  a  new  work. 

But  whatever  shall  be  the  outcome  of  my  humble  service,  whatever 
shall  overtake  me,  there  shall  be  yet  abiding  with  all  of  us  eternal  truth, 
which  is  light  and  life,  even  life  everlasting. 

We  shall  still  know  that  "The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence"  and 
that  we,  his  children,  are  heirs  to  and  subjects  of  that  same  law,  for  the 
glory  of  man  is  intelligence  likewise. 

There  will  still  be  with  us  the  knowledge  that  man  was  not  made 
merely  that  he  might  suffer  pain  and  want  and  sorrow,  but  that  "Men 
are  that  they  might  have  joy," — a  joy  that  is  not  the  passing  pleasures 
of  the  flesh  nor  of  worldly  riches,  but  the  joy  of  a  clean  body  and  a 
clean  mind,  the  joy  of  right  living,  the  joy  of  growth  and  progress,  the 
joy  of  brotherly  comradeship  one  with  another,  the  joy  of  spiritual 
communion  with  the  Infinite,  the  joy  of  the  knowledge  of  everlasting 
life  and  eternal  progression. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  103 


NO  SUBSTITUTE  FOR  WORK 

We  shall  have  the  joy  of  work  too,  for  man  also  is  that  he  might 
work,  he  went  forth  from  the  innocence  of  Eden  to  the  God-like  knowl- 
edge of  good  and  evil,  with  the  Divine  blessing — not  curse — as  it  seems 
to  me:  "In  the  sweat  of  thy  face  shalt  thou  eat  bread."  And  save  in 
extremity,  no  man  may  rightfully  violate  that  law  by  living  by  the  sweat 
from  the  brow  of  his  brother.  It  is  the  eternal,  inescapable  law  that 
growth  comes  only  from  work  and  preparation,  whether  the  growth  be 
material,  mental,  or  spiritual.  Work  has  no  substitute.  Idleness  brings 
neither  profit,  nor  advantage,  nor  good — only  a  withering  decay  and 
death.  The  world  is  near  to  forgetting  all  this ;  I  hope  that  we  as  a 
people  shall  keep  it  ever  in  remembrance,  for  in  proportion  as  it  is  for- 
gotten, evil  will  rule. 

THE  WORLD'S  PROBLEM 

The  world  is  moaning  in  tribulation.  I  do  not  know  the  cure.  The 
questions  involved  are  so  nearly  infinite  in  their  vastness,  that  I  question 
whether  any  human  mind  can  answer  them.  But  it  is  my  faith  that  if 
the  people  shall  shun  idleness ;  if  they  shall  cast  out  from  their  hearts 
those  twin  usurpers,  ambition  and  greed,  and  then  shall  re-enthrone 
brotherly  love,  and  return  to  the  old  time  virtues — industry,  thrift, 
honesty,  self-reliance,  independence  of  spirit,  self -discipline,  and  mutual 
helpfulness — we  shall  be  far  on  our  way  to  returned  prosperity  and 
worldly  happiness.  We  must  again  yield  fealty  to  the  law  that  moulder- 
ing wealth,  however  great,  is  a  mere  shadow  compared  with  the  living, 
enduring  riches  of  the  mind  and  heart.  We  must  remember  the  com- 
mand given  to  Israel  of  old — "Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thy  self," 
which,  says  James,  is  "The  royal  law  according  to  the  scriptures."  The 
world  problem  is  not  primarily  one  of  finance,  but  of  unselfishness,  in- 
dustry, courage,  confidence,  character,  heart,  temperance,  integrity,  and 
righteousness.  The  world  has  been  on  a,  wild  debauch,  materially  and 
spiritually;  it  must  recover  in  the  same  way  the  drunken  reprobate 
recovers ;  by  repentance  and  right  living. 

GOD  WILL  SPEAK 

We  here  are  strengthened,  even  in  our  want,  by  the  knowledge 
that  in  this  wilderness  of  modernism,  with  its  mounting  error  and 
multiplying  nostrums,  with  its  new  thought  and  strange  action,  man  is 
not  left  to  wander,  unguided  save  by  the  truth  given  to  him  when  he 
moved  in  a  different  world,  with  different  standards,  problems,  and 
ideals.  For  we  know  that  the  Almighty,  in  pace  with  the  progress  of  his 
children,  will  speak  to  them  from  time  to  time,  giving  them  further 
light  and  wisdom,  measurable  to  their  new  needs  in  their  new  life.  We 
know  that  individually  each  of  us  may  so  live  that  he  may  ask  for  Divine 
help  with  the  assurance  that  aid  will  come. 

STILL  THE  GOOD  SHEPHERD 

And  in  this  time  of  stress,  it  is  our  right  also  to  know  that  our 
Father  has  not  forgotten  us  though  we  well  nigh  forgot  him ;  he  has 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


not  shut  the  heavens  from  us ;  he  has  not  cast  us  out  from  his  care ; 
he  has  not  walled  off  his  love  against  us.  He  is  still  the  Good  Shepherd, 
reaching  after,  watching  over  us,,  with  the  tenderness  of  the  Infinite. 
His  love  and  his  care  are  eternal. 

Standing  before  Capernaum  Jesus  said :  "Come  unto  me  all  ye  that 
labor  and  are  heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give  you  rest." 

To  the  multitude  on  the  Mount,  he  said :  "Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom 
of  God  and  his  righteousness  and  all  these  things  shall  be  added." 

The  Psalmist  sang:  "The  judgments  of  the  Lord  are  true  and 
righteous  altogether." 

Thus  is  the  law,  the  promise,  and  the  blessing. 

The  Master,  speaking'  with  spiritual  intent,  said  to  Simon  Peter : 
"Feed  my  sheep."  This  command  of  the  Savior  makes  it  greater  and 
nobler  by  infinity,  to  feed  the  mind  and  spirit  of  man  than  to  crush  his 
body  or  to  break  his  will.  It  is  my  duty,  it  will  be  my  effort,  to  follow 
after  the  mandate  of  the  Master.  To  this  service  I  pledge  the  best  I  have 
of  experience,  of  wisdom,  of  faith. 

Nineteen  hundred  years  ago  today,  as  the  historians  count,  Christ 
came  in  through  the  gates  of  Jerusalem  to  the  temple,  the  multitude 
going  before,  bearing  palm  branches  and  crying :  "Blessed  be  the  king  that 
cometh  in  the  name  of  the  Lord."  The  multitude  cried  out  thinking  him 
an  earthly  king;  we  know  him  as  the  sovereign  of  our  souls,  as  the 
Redeemer  of  the  World,  as  him  who  died  that  man  might  live.  Let 
us  not  forget  him  nor  his  truth,  lest  we  "crucify  to  ourselves  the  Son 
of  God  afresh." 

GIVES  LIGHT 

God  lives.  We  are  his  children.  He  has  given  back  to  earth  his 
priesthood.  He  has  spoken  and  is  speaking  through  his  prophets.  To 
each  of  us  he  gives  spiritual  light  just  in  the  measure  we  are  ready 
and  willing  to  take  it,  and  his  blessings  are  ours,  not  for  sinning  diso- 
bedience to  the  truth  already  given,  but  through  the  righteous  keeping 
thereof.  We  may  not  rightfully  expect  that  God  will  flash  either  to  our 
minds  or  to  our  spirits  new  knowledge  for  which  we  are  not  ready  and 
for  which  we  have  no  need.  We  may  rightfully  expect  only  that  God 
will  give  new  lessons  when  we  have  learned  the  old  ones  and  they  no 
longer  serve  our  wants. 

God  grant  us  the  supreme  knowledge,  proclaimed  by  the  Master  on 
his  way  to  the  spiritual  agony  and  ecstacy  of  Gethsemane:  "And  this 
is  life  eternal  that  they  might  know  thee,  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus 
Christ  whom  thou  hast  sent." 

To  his  children  on  this  hemisphere  Jesus  said :  "I  am  the  light  and 
life  of  the  world,"  and  to  Martha,  she  of  the  almost  perfect  faith:  "I 
am  the  resurrection  and  the  life;  he  that  believeth  in  me,  though  he 
were  dead,  yet  shall  he  live ;  and  whosoever  liveth  and  believeth  in  me 
shall  never  die." 

God  grant  to  us  the  gifts  of  his  Holy  Spirit  and  provide  us  with 
the  needful  things  of  life.  May  he  bless  me  with  the  spirit  of  my  calling. 
Will  you  make  your  prayers  in  my  behalf  that  I  may  do  his  service 
righteously  ? 


ELDER  GEORGE  S.  ROMNEY 


105 


ELDER  GEORGE  S.  ROMNEY 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 
It  is  written  in  the  scriptures : 

"But  without  faith  it  is  impossible  to  please  him :  for  he  that  cometh  to  God 
must  believe  that  he  is,  and  that  he  is  a  rewarder  of  them  that  diligently  seek  him." 

Sometimes  people  misunderstand  this  statement  of  faith  and  what 
it  is.  Some  seem  to  believe  that  faith  is  merely  a  belief  or  an  acceptance 
of  the  truth.  The  doctrine  as  taught  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  clearly 
indicates  that  it  is  necessary  not  only  to  believe  and  to  have  knowledge 
but  to  put  that  knowledge  into  practice.  More  than  that,  faith  is  not 
only  a  belief  with  action,  but  also  a  confidence  in  God ;  a  belief  of  such 
a  nature  that  we  can  accept  and  do  his  will  and  he  will  keep  his  promises 
to  us. 

A  week  ago  today  I  was  in  attendance  at  a  conference  of  the 
Northern  States  Mission.  The  night  previous  there  had  been  a  Mutual 
Improvement  contest  in  which  the  contestants  of  the  Columbus  Branch 
of  the  Church  traveled  nearly  three  hundred  miles  to  the  city  of  Detroit ; 
and  singing,  and  speaking,  and  drama,  and  dancing  were  exhibited  in 
that  contest.  At  this  conference  and  also  at  the  evening  entertainment 
were  a  very  intelligent  and  splendid  man  and  his  wife.  One  of  them  was 
a  direct  descendant  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Also  in  attendance 
at  that  conference  was  a  leading  member  of  the  faculty  of  the  University 
of  Ohio,  who  is  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  This  gentleman  and  his  wife  invited  this  professor  and  myself 
to  dinner,  and  I  was  somewhat  startled  at  some  of  the  questions  that 
were  asked  by  these  good  people,  whom  we  love,  though  they  are  not 
members  of  the  Church. 

The  gentleman  said  that  the  particular  reason  for  inviting  us  to 
dinner  was  that  he  wanted  to  ask  Dr.  Russell  how  it  was  that  he,  an 
educated  man,  a  man  who  had  attained  prominence  in  the  world  in  the 
educational  field,  still  had  faith  in  the  story  concerning  Joseph  Smith, 
the  Prophet.  He  said  that  in  his  church,  which  is  the  Reorganized 
Church  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  whenever  men  became  educated  they 
no  longer  accepted  that  statement.  And  then  he  very  frankly  said  :  "We 
feel  that  there  is  something  lacking  in  our  church." 

Dr.  Russell  told  him  that  he  had  a  strong  testimony  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  his  faith  was  just  as  sincere  and 
just  as  earnest  as  that  of  any  member  of  the  congregation  of  that  con- 
ference ;  and  not  only  that  but  he  told  him  that  throughout  the  educational 
institutions  in  the  United  States  there  were  many  men  of  that  character. 

I  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Lord  is  pleading  with 
these  people,  that  the  testimony  of  the  truth  is  in  their  hearts,  and  that 
what  is  needed  is  greater  faith.  The  world  is  in  turmoil,  but  I  do  not 
believe  that  more  knowledge  will  cure  it.  The  thing  that  is  needed 
is  for  men  and  women  to  accept  and  obey  that  which  they  already  know. 
There  are  not  many  people  of  intelligence,  in  my  opinion,  who  believe 
that  the  use  of  strong  drink  is  good  for  the  youth  of  the  nation  or  that 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


it  will  help  us.  What  is  needed  is  faith  in  the  hearts  of  the  people 
sufficiently  strong  to  get  them  to  accept  the  knowledge  which  they  have 
and  practice  it,  and  to  have  confidence  in  the  Lord. 

My  heart  is  touched  at  times  when  poor  people — and  in  the  Northern 
States  there  are  many  at  the  present  time — send  in  one  dollar,  and  'I 
know  that  is  a  full  tithing  for  the  month,  and  express  in  their  letters 
to  us  that  they  have  confidence  in  the  Lord,  that  if  they  will  keep  his 
commandments  and  do  their  part,  they  are  sure  the  Lord  will  do  his  part. 
It  is  the  universal  testimony  of  those  who  pay  their  tithing  that  the  Lord 
will  take  care  of  them  and  those  who  have  sufficient  faith  to  do  that  are 
better  off  than  those  who  do  not. 

Tomorrow  the  missionaries  of  the  Northern  States  Mission  will 
be  walking  the  streets  of  the  cities,  and  they  will  hear,  as  they  meet  the 
people,  about  this  wonderful  concert  to  which  we  have  listened  this 
morning.  This  testimony  of  song  and  music,  and  the  testimony  of  the 
Elders  of  the  Church,  and  the  testimony  of  the  example  of  this  people 
shall  go  forth  to  the  world,  and  after  that  will  come  the  testimony  of 
earthquakes  and  the  testimony  of  the  raging  tempests,  as  the  Lord  has 
said. 

My  faith  is  stronger  than  it  ever  has  been  and  I  want  to  say  that 
I  support  and  sustain  the  Authorities  of  the  Church,  and  I  want  to  leave 
my  testimony  with  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

A  sacred  selection,  "Awake  My  Soul,"  was  rendered  by  the  Choir — 
duet  by  Cannon  Lund  and  Bertha  Sessions. 

Elder  H.  Melvin  Rollins,  President  of  the  Lyman  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


THIRD  DAY 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  closing  session  of  the  Conference  convened  promptly  at  2 
o'clock  Sunday  afternoon,  April  9.  Again  the  great  Tabernacle  was 
crowded  to  capacity,  and  thousands  of  people  who  could  not  get  into 
the  building  gathered  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  upon  the  Temple 
Square  where  they  listened  to  the  services  by  means  of  large  amplifiers 
as  the  proceedings  were  broadcast  from  the  Tabernacle. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "The 
Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning." 

Elder  Wilford  A.  Beesley,  President  of  the  Salt  Lake  Stake,  of- 
fered the  invocation. 

Mrs.  Ray  M.  Russell  sang  a  sacred  solo,  "Who  are  these  arrayed 
in  white?" 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Since  our  last  Conference  one  of  the  most  beloved,  most  energetic 
and  most  estimable  members  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
has  passed  away,  a  man  whose  voice  has  been  heard  here  many  many 
times  and  one  who  has  filled  several  missions  in  Great  Britain.  Until 
shortly  before  his  decease  he  had  been  presiding  over  the  California 
Mission  of  the  Church.  During  his  administration  several  hundred 
thousands  of  dollars  were  expended  in  the  erection  of  chapels  in  that 
mission,  and  three  stakes  were  organized  in  what  was  the  California 
Mission  at  the  time  that  Brother  Joseph  W.  McMurrin  was  made  its 
president.  He  was  one  of  the  great  preachers  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  in  these  last  days,  a  man  with  a  perfect  and  abiding  testimony 
of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  are  engaged  ; 
a  man  who  won  the  love  and  respect  not  only  of  members  of  the  Church 
but  of  all  with  whom  he  came  in  contact,  for  his  sincerity,  his  honesty 
and  his  fearless  defense  of  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

We  are  reassembled  at  the  time  and  place  appointed,  and  if  we 
have  come,  as  I  feel  that  we  have,  with  the  spirit  of  righteous  desire  and 
faith  in  our  hearts,  we  should  receive  a  continuation  of  the  blessings 
that  have  been  so  marked  in  the  earlier  sessions  of  this  conference. 

TIMELINESS 

Time  and  timeliness  are  very  important  in  the  affairs  of  men,  and 
no  less  in  the  ever  unfolding  purposes  of  the  Lord  our  God.  He  does 
things  in  his  own  due  time,  and  that  is  always  the  right  time.    In  the 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


establishment  of  this  nation,  of  which  we  have  heard  much,  he  chose  the 
time,  after  due  preparation  had  been  made.  I  believe  that  had  an  attempt 
been  made  by  men  to  establish  a  democracy,  such  as  this,  a  hundred  or 
fifty  or  twenty  years  earlier,  it  would  have  been  a  failure. 

There  is  a  time  for  seeding  and  there  is  a  time  for  harvest.  Many 
of  us  become  impatient  and  desire  to  reap  the  harvests  of  the  fields  and 
the  orchards  even  before  the  harvests  of  the  snows  have  been  garnered 
in  the  storage  recesses  of  these  everlasting  hills. 

There  was  a  time  for  the  establishment  of  this  Church.  It  was 
the  Lord's  time.  Great  and  numerous  events  had  been  leading  up  to  it, 
and  at  the  appointed  time  it  was  established,  never  again  to  be  thrown 
down. 

EXAMPLES  OF  TIMELINESS 

There  is  a  marked  timeliness  in  the  advice  and  counsel  and  instruc- 
tions given  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  from  period  to  period.  Many  could 
not  understand,  or  would  not  understand  why,  but  a  few  years  ago, 
during  the  epoch  of  recognized  prosperity,  the  usual  advice  and  counsel 
to  the  people  in  regard  to  things  temporal  was  emphasized,  perhaps 
more  than  ever  before.  People  were  told  to  get  out  of  debt,  and  to  keep 
out  of  debt,  and  not  to  go  into  expanding  schemes  whereby  their  means 
would  be  tied  up.  They  were  told  of  the  very  conditions  that  are  now 
upon  us.  It  is  true  that  through  all  the  decades  past  since  the  people 
came  to  these  mountains,  advice  of  this  kind  had  been  given ;  but  it  was 
intensified  in  recent  years,  and  those  who  had  ears  to  hear  listened  and 
acted  upon  the  counsel  given.  To  others  it  was  mere  repetition,  and 
they  permitted  it  to  pass. 

There  was  a  time  when  our  Elders  were  preaching  among  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth  the  doctrine  of  the  gathering,  and  urging  upon  the 
people,  the  members  of  the  Church  in  those  other  countries,  to  make 
arrangements  to  come  to  Zion  as  soon  as  they  could.  That  was  when 
immigration  into  this  country  was  unrestricted,  and  the  Perpetual  Emi- 
gration Fund  was  maintained  for  the  assistance  of  worthy  saints  who 
were  otherwise  prepared  to  come  to  this  land.  They  were  told  at  that 
time — I  heard  the  Elders  of  the  Church  declare  it  when  I  was  a  boy  in 
my  native  land — that  the  day  would  come  when  it  would  not  be  possible 
for  people  to  come  to  Zion,  and  they  should  take  advantage  of  the 
opportunities  that  they  then  possessed.  And  so  it  is  with  many  other 
developments. 

COUNSEL  IN  SEASON 

Now,  at  this  conference  there  has  been  much  emphasis  laid  upon  the 
necessity  of  attention  to  personal  health  and  the  conditions  that  tend  to 
conserve  and  insure  health  of  body  and  mind.  I  can  imagine  that  some 
who  are  deaf  to  the  finer  sounds  of  the  Gospel,  as  declared  by  the  Lord's 
representatives,  may  well  say:  "We  have  heard  that  before.  We  have 
heard  too  many  sermons  about  the  Word  of  Wisdom."  There  is 
significant  meaning  in  the  emphasis  that  has  been  given  to  this  subject 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


109 


at  the  current  conference,  and  those  of  you  who  are  receptive — and  I 
trust  most  of  you  are — must  know  that  there  is  a  deep  significance  in 
the  emphasis  being  laid  upon  that  topic  just  now. 

Have  you  not  read  of  the  pestilences,  including  perhaps  strange 
diseases,  that  are  to  sweep  the  earth?  They  are  among  the  judgments 
that  were  foretold  for  these  days.  We  had  a  taste  of  such  back  in  1918-19, 
when  the  great  influenza  carried,  according  to  the  established  records, 
over  sixteen  millions  of  people  to  their  graves.  Now,  all  other  things 
being  equal,  it  is  the  healthy  and  the  strong  who  are  more  likely  to  sur- 
vive under  the  assault  of  disease. 

Latter-day  Saints,  look  to  your  bodies,  look  to  your  health,  as  you 
have  been  again  and  again  advised  to  do ;  and  if  disease  and  pestilence 
come  let  it  not  take  you  because  of  your  blamable  condition  of  ill  health. 

We  have  heard  of  these  ills — calamities  we  call  them  though  they 
may  be  blessings  to  the  race  in  disguise — that  are  characteristic  of  these 
days.  They  have  been  predicted,  and  some  people  are  apt  to  place  re- 
sponsibility if  not  blame  for  all  these  upon  the  Lord,  and  to  envision  him 
as  a  God  of  vengeance.  He  is  a  God  of  love,  and  it  is  necessary  that 
some  of  these  experiences  shall  come  upon  mankind,  that  they  may  be 
better  prepared  for  what  the  Lord'  has  in  store  for  them  by  way  of 
blessing. 

FOREKNOWLEDGE  NOT  A  DETERMINING  CAUSE 

It  is  not  fair  to  blame  the  Lord,  even  in  thought,  because  he  gives 
us  warning  of  what  is  to  come.  It  is  most  irrational  and  illogical  so  to 
do.  He,  with  his  omniscience,  knows  what  is  to  come  to  individuals 
and  nations,  and  he  gives  warnings.  Many  of  us  take  that  warning 
to  be  an  expression  of  divine  determination  to  punish  and  to  afflict.  Well, 
others  besides  the  Lord  are  subjects  of  ill-directed  blame  sometimes.  I 
have  suffered  from  it.  On  one  occasion  I  undertook  to  warn  a  merry 
party  of  intending  picnickers  not  to  set  out  on  their  jaunt,  because  a 
storm  was  coming,  a  violent  storm.  I  had  consulted  the  instruments 
that  told  of  its  coming.  But  they  knew  better  and  they  went,  and  they 
came  back  in  some  fashion.  I  wish  you  could  have  seen  them.  But  the 
tragical  part  of  it  was  they  blamed  it  all  on  me. 

Shall  it  be  that  because  the  storm  is  predicted  we  should  believe 
that  the  foreknowledge  so  used  is  a  determining  cause?  You  know 
better.  Let  us  be  thankful  for  the  warnings  that  the  Lord  has  given  and 
is  giving,  and  prepare  ourselves  against  the  tempest. 

Oh,  Latter-day  Saints,  we  have  to  bear  the  conditions  that  have 
been  foretold,  and  that  are  now  being  realized.  Let  us  do  it  with  faith 
and  resignation,  never  faltering,  knowing  that  the  Lord  will  bring  out 
all  things  well,  for  his  word  shall  not  fail,  nor  shall  his  purposes  be  turned 
aside. 

I  am  happy  to  be  in  harmony  with  the  spirit  of  this  conference,  to 
find  myself  receptive  to  the  advice  that  has  been  given. 

May  the  Lord's  peace  and  support  be  with  us  now,  henceforth  and 
forever,  I  humbly  pray,  in  his  name.  Amen. 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  delighted  with  the  privilege  of 
adding  my  testimony  to  those  which  have  already  been  given 
during  this  conference,  although  I  should  very  gladly  have  sur- 
rendered my  portion  of  the  time  to  those  who  are  perhaps  more 
able  to  instruct  you. 

As  you  know,  I  represent  the  Mexican  Mission,  and  as  such  I 
bring  you  greetings  from  perhaps  the  largest  branch  of  the  house 
of  Lehi,  We  had  a  pageant  the  other  night,  celebrating  the  dawn 
of  the  day  of  the  sons  of  Lehi.  We  are  laboring  among  those 
very  people,  and  we  bring  you  their  greetings. 

The  Mexican  Mission  feels  to  congratulate  itself  especially  at 
this  time,  in  that  it  has  two  new  representatives,  we  might  say, 
among  the  presiding  authorities  of  the  Church.  We  feel  extremely 
fortunate  in  the  selection  of  these  two  brethren  to  fill  the  vacancies 
that  they  now  occupy,  because  we  know  that  both  of  them  are 
friendly  to  our  people  and  to  our  mission.  We  pray  that  God  will 
bless  them,  that  they  may  measure  up  fully  and  completely  to  the 
responsibility  that  rests  upon  them.  We  bear  them  up,  and  will 
support  them  wholeheartedly  and  without  reserve. 

The  Mexican  Mission  is  making  some  progress.  We  are  not 
able,  however,  to  report  the  same  advancement  that  some  of  the 
other  missions  are  able  to  do.  Our  numbers  are  few.  We  have 
not  available  the  same  excellent  quality  and  quantity  of  part-time 
missionary  service  as  the  other  missions  are  enjoying^  It  seems  to 
me  that  it  is  through  this  effort  that  they  are  making  their  best 
contacts  at  this  time,  and  we  miss  that  force  very,  very  much. 

We  have  in  our  mission  some  of  the  best  young  men  and  young- 
women  in  the  Church.  We  wish  to  assure  the  fathers  and  mothers  of  all 
of  them  that  they  are  now  well,  happy,  and  working  hard ;  and  if  there 
are  any  others  who  have  sons  and  daughters  that  they  would  like  to  get 
a  wonderful  experience,  send  them  to  us.  We  would  like  to  have  them 
now.  It  is  the  work  of  the  Lord.  There  is  no  greater  work  in  the  world, 
and  your  sons  and  your  daughters  are  interested  in  its  advancement. 

I  don't  feel  that  I  should  stand  here  and  talk  a  long  while  this  after- 
noon, but  I  just  want  to  add  my  testimony  to  those  that  have  already 
been  given,  to  say  that  we  support  and  uphold  the  authorities  of  this 
Church.  We  are  especially  interested  in  the  campaign  that  seems  to 
have  been  initiated  for  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  the  slogan,  if  we  may  call 
it  such,  of  this  conference. 

I  can  bear  the  same  testimony  that  has  been  borne  here  already 
two  or  three  times,  that  the  observance  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  no 
detriment  in  the  world.  I  have  spent  ten  years  of  my  life  laboring  with 
people  who  are  not  of  our  faith,  almost  all  of  whom  are  non-observers 
of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  but  I  found,  without  exception,  that  they 
expected  me  to  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  They  almost  demanded 
it  of  me,  and  I  was  mighty  glad  to  think  that  it  was  a  habit  with  me. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


111 


I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us ;  that  he  will  make  our  shoulders 
equal  to  the  burdens  that  we  have  to  bear ;  that  we  may  carry  on  this 
work  in  honor  and  in  dignity  before  him;  that  eventually,  in  his  own 
proper  time,  it  may  fulfil  the  purpose  for  which  it  was  established  in 
the  earth.  With  these  few  words  I  give  way,  praying  God's  bless- 
ings upon  us  all,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Brethren  and  sisters :  No  doubt  you  have  come  to  this  103rd  annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  to  hear  the  word  of  the  Lord  as  it  shall  fall 
from  the  lips  of  his  servants  who  shall  address  you.  So  far  as  I  am 
concerned  I  assure  you  that  I  have  but  a  single  desire  and  that  is  to  speak 
only  as  my  brethren  and  the  Lord  shall  approve.  And  so  I  have  earnestly 
prayed  that  the  Lord  will  direct  me  in  what  I  shall  say. 

SUCCESS  THROUGH  DIVINE  LEADERSHIP 

This  is  the  Lord's  work — not  man's.  It  will  prosper  only  if  he  leads 
it.  It  cannot  prosper  if  directed  by  the  uninspired  wisdom  of  men.  This 
is  a  fact  that  we  should  keep  clearly  in  mind.  For  it  applies  not  only  to 
the  work  of  the  Church  in  general  and  as  a  whole,  but  also  to  any  part  of 
the  work  and  to  individual  efforts  in  the  Church.  I  am,  of  course,  only 
stating  a  fact  that  is  well  known  in  the  Church,  the  recognition  of  which 
is  the  beginning  of  wisdom  of  the  person  who  would  serve  acceptably 
in  teaching  the  word  of  the  Lord. 

AN  ANALOGOUS  SITUATION 

The  current  economic  conditions  still  form  a  major  topic  of  dis- 
cussion. Many  members  of  the  Church  look  to  its  leadership  to  show 
them  "a  way  out."  Is  not  the  situation  somewhat  analogous  to  that 
which  prevailed  when  Jesus  lived  among  the  Jews  in  Palestine?  The 
Jews  were  looking  for  a  Messiah.  But  they  wanted  a  savior  who  should 
lead  them  out  of  political  bondage  and  establish  them  as  an  independent 
nation  strong  enough  to  cope  successfully  in  a  test  of  arms  with  any 
other  nation.  Even  some  of  the  followers  of  Jesus  hoped  and  expected 
that  he  would  develop  into  such  a  leader.  They  were  disappointed  that 
he  did  not  do>  so  and  therefore  saw  their  fond  hopes  blasted  when  he 
was  lifted  upon  the  cross.  'They  failed  to  see  in  him  the  promised 
Messiah. 

So  in  this  day  I  am  very  sure  that  the  Lord  through  his  servants, 
the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  has  already  very  clearly  pointed  a  way  out 
from  our  present  difficulties.  But  it  appears  that  even  many  members 
of  the  Church,  and  certainly  the  peoples  of  the  world  generally,  have 
f  ailed  to  see  the  Lord's  plan  of  economic  recovery  as  given  in  the  inspired 
words  of  the  First  Presidency  of  this  Church.  In  this  day  we  are  so 
accustomed  to  striking  headlines  in  the  announcement  of  even  many 
unimportant  things  that  we  are  wholly  unprepared  to  see  a  way  out  of 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  universal  gloom  that  is  not  announced  with  the  blowing  of  trumpets 
or  some  other  equivocal  method. 

THROUGH  HIS  SERVANTS  THE  PROPHETS 

Yet  the  Lord  has  spoken  on  the  subject  of  the  depression  through 
his  servants  the  prophets.  I  solemnly  testify  to  you  that  this  is  the  truth. 
Do  you  ask  when  and  where  ?  I  readily  answer  that  he  spoke  through 
the  First  Presidency  of  this  Church  in  their  Annual  Greetings  published 
in  the  Christmas  edition  of  the  Deseret  News  December  19th,  1931,  and 
December  17th,  1932.  The  texts  of  these  two  greetings  are  somewhat 
similar  and  might  be  stated  as  follows : 

"Come  unto  me,  all  ye  that  labor  and  are  heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give  you  rest." 

After  briefly  describing  the  prevailing  conditions  the  Greetings  of 
last  December  contain  the  following  words: 

"Looking  forward  with  the  gift  of  prophecy  the  Prophet  Isaiah,  more  than 
2500  years  ago  said :  'It  shall  be,  as  with  the  people,  so  with  the  priest ;  as  with 
the  servant,  so  with  the  master ;  as  with  the  maid,  so  with  her  mistress ;  as  with 
the  buyer,  so  with  the  seller ;  as  with  the  lender,  so  with  the  borrower ;  as  with 
the  giver  of  usury,  so  with  the  taker  of  usury  from  him., " 

And  the  Greetings  go  on  to  say : 

"No  one  will  deny  that  Isaiah  foresaw  existing  conditions.  He  tells  us  in 
simple  language  the  causes  which  have  led  up  to  this  condition,  in  the  following 
words :  'They  have  transgressed  the  laws,  changed  the  ordinance,  broken  the 
everlasting  covenant.' " 

THE  REMEDY 

The  Greetings  then  continue: 

"The  remedy  which  will  bring  relief  from  the  present  confused  condition" — 
now  listen  Latter-day  Saints  and  ye  peoples  of  all  the  world — "the  remedy  which 
will  bring  relief  from  the  present  confused  condition  is  clearly  set  forth  in  the 
words  of  God  our  Father,  spoken  through  the  Prophet  Malachi  as  follows  :  'Return 
unto  me  and  I  will  return  unto  you,  saith  the  Lord  of  Hosts.  Bring  all  the) 
tithes  into  the  storehouse  that  there  may  be  meat  in  mine  house  and  prove  me  now 
herewith,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will  not  open  the  windows  of  heaven  and 
pour  you  out  a  blessing,  that  there  will  not  be  room  enough  to  receive  it.'  " 

And  the  Greetings  of  the  First  Presidency  continue: 

"These  are  not  our  words,  but  the  words  of  God  our  Father,  spoken  through 
his  chosen  prophets." 

HOPE  FOR  THE  FUTURE 

And  there  are  other  similar  words  of  God  our  Father  spoken  through 
his  chosen  prophets,  the  First  Presidency  of  this  Church.  They  are 
found  in  the  Christmas  Greetings  published  in  December,  1931,  and  are 
in  part  as  follows: 

"Notwithstanding  the  confusion  which  at  present  prevails  in  this  world  of 
ours,  we  have  much  to  be  thankful  for,  and  can  look  confidently  forward  to  a 
brighter  and  a  happier  day." 

These  certainly  are  cheering  words.    And  the  beauty  in  them  lies 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


113 


in  the  fact  that  they  are  divinely  inspired  and  therefore  absolutely  true. 
Hence  they  are  full  of  hope  and  comfort. 

FULFILMENT  OF  REQUIREMENTS  NECESSARY 

But  in  this  orderly  world  of  ours  nothing  takes  place  without  a 
cause.  This  is  a  truth  taught  by  science  and  is  familiar  to  all  students 
of  science.  It  is  a  truth  that  has  also  been  taught  to  the  Latter-day  Saints 
since  the  early  days  of  the  Church.  We  find  it  recorded  in  Section  130 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  expressed  in  the  language  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  as  follows : 

"There  is  a  law  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foundations  of  this 
world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated;  and  when  we  obtain  any  blessing 
from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law  upon  which  it  is  predicated." 

Our  God  never  promises  any  blessing  either  in  his  holy  scriptures 
or  through  the  mouths  of  his  divinely  inspired  servants  except  con- 
ditionally ;  that  is,  to  obtain  the  blessings  the  necessary  requirements  must 
be  satisfied.  And  so  we  would  expect  a  relief  from  the  present  deplorable 
conditions  to  be  based  upon  the  fulfilment  of  certain  requirements.  What 
then  are  the  requirements  that  enable  us  to  "look  confidently  forward  to 
a  brighter  and  happier  day  ?"  Listen,  Oh  Israel,  listen  "all  ye  that  are 
heavy  laden."  Thus  saith  the  Lord  through  his  servants,  the  First 
Presidency : 

"If  the  people  of  the  world  will  turn  unto  God,  and  acknowledge  His  Son 
our  Redeemer ;  if  each  citizen  of  our  country  will  put  away  selfishness,  strife  and 
bitterness,  *  *  *  the  clouds  of  adversity  will  roll  away,  the  sun  of  prosperity  will 
shine  again,  and  peace  and  plenty  will  prevail  from  the  rivers  to  the  ends  of  the 
earth." 

THE  LORD'S  PLAN 

Here  then  we  have  stated  in  plain  language  how  we  may  get  out  of 
this  world-wide  depression.  The  plan  is  simple:  it  is  the  Lord's  plan. 
Many  other  plans  have  been  proposed,  some  of  them  widely  discussed. 
But  none  of  them  will  completely  succeed.  Of  this  we  may  be  certain 
for  they  are  the  plans  of  men  and  not  of  God,  since  they  do  not  contain 
all  the  elements  of  God's  plan. 

Now  while  God's  plan  is  simple  it  may  not  be  easy  to  execute.  It 
is  based  upon  the  two  great  commandments — Love  the  Lord  thy  God 
with  all  thy  might,  mind  and  strength,  and  thy  neighbor  as  thyself.  To 
keep  these  commandments  we  must  live  the  Golden  Rule,  never  an  easy 
thing  to  do. 

A  CALL  TO  REPENTANCE 

Latter-day  Saints,  you  have  come,  up  to  this  conference  to  hear  the 
word  of  the  Lord.  I  have  read  it  to  you  as  the  Lord  has  given  it  through 
his  servants,  the  prophets.  And  now  the  question  is,  Are  we  ready  to 
accept  it  ?  To  do  so  we  must  repent.  And  so  the  call  of  the  Lord  to  his 
people  is  a  call  to  repentance.  To  repent  of  what?  Of  our  "selfishness, 
strife  and  bitterness."  It  is  a  call  not  only  to  me  and  to  you  but  all  the 
people  who  inhabit  the  earth.  Peace  and  prosperity  will  not  return  unless 
we  do  repent.   Let  us  not  forget  this  fact.   Men  may  plan  and  scheme 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  legislate  but  peace  and  plenty  will  never  again  smile  upon  all  the 
inhabitants  of  this  goodly  land  until  we  keep  the  commandments  of  Jesus 
Christ,  the  God  of  this  land.  Believing  this  with  all  my  heart  I  cry 
repentance  wherever  I  go  among  the  people.  It  is  the  theme  of  all  my 
talks  in  the  congregations  of  the  Saints. 

LAW  GOVERNS  THE  UNIVERSE 

Does  the  Lord,  our  Father  in  Heaven,  delight  in  the  suffering  and 
misery  of  his  children,  conditions  everywhere  prevalent  in  these  dis- 
tressing times?  Does  any  right-minded,  kind-hearted  earthly  parent 
delight  in  the  punishment  of  his  child?  Most  certainly  not.  But  our 
Heavenly  Father  is  not  only  loving,  kind  and  merciful.  He  is  also  just. 
He  is  the  Creator  of  the  world,  of  the  universe,  and  of  all  things  that 
in  them  are.  But  this  world  is  an  orderly  world.  Law  governs  all  the 
phenomena  of  nature  and  of  every  existent  thing.  If  we  violate  any  of 
these  laws,  the  laws  of  health  for  example,  we  may  expect  to  suffer  the 
consequences.  The  justice  of  God  requires  that  we  do  so.  We  have  a 
depression  and  are  suffering  the  consequences  because  we  have  violated 
the  laws  of  right  social  living.  And  these  are  God's  laws.  God  has  not 
become  cruel  and  inflicted  us  with  the  bitter  troubles  from  which  we  are 
suffering.  We  have  made  our  own  troubles.  Let  us  recognize  this  truth, 
turn  about  and  repent.  Then  the  Lord  will  be  delighted  with  us  and  we 
shall  come  to  a  happier  and  a  brighter  day.  But  repentance  is  the 
condition. 

We  must  turn  "away  from  our  selfishness,  strife  and  bitterness." 
Why  have  we  not  paid  our  tithes  and  our  fast  offerings,  as  the  Lord  has 
commanded  us?  Is  it  not  because  of  our  selfishness?  Can  we  really 
believe  in  the  divinity  of  this  work  and  then  withhold  our  tithes  from 
the  store  house  of  the  Lord?!  Can  we  expect  to  enjoy  the  favors  of  the 
Lord  if  we  fail  in  fulfilling  the  conditions  upon  which  his  favors  are 
based?  If  we  do  have  such  expectations  we  shall  be  disappointed,  for 
our  God  is  a  law  observer,  a  just  God. 

THE  SIN  OF  SELFISHNESS 

Of  all  our  sins  the  sin  of  selfishness  is  one  of  the  most  common 
and  one  of  the  greatest.  It  saturates  our  entire  life — social,  business, 
political,  even  religious.  One  of  the  reasons  why  most  man-made  plans 
of  economic  recovery  would  fail  miserably,  even  if  attempted,  is  because 
they  are  characterized  by  selfishness — inordinate  selfishness  in  many 
cases.  Now,  no  plan,  no  matter  by  whom  proposed,  will  succeed  if  it  has 
this  characteristic.    God  has  so  spoken.    His  word  will  not  fail. 

AN  OUTSTANDING  EXAMPLE 

One  of  the  most  outstanding  examples  of  inordinate  current  day 
selfishness  is  the  propaganda  for  the  repeal  of  the  Eighteenth  Amend- 
ment to  the  United  States  Constitution.  During  recent  years  millions 
of  dollars  have  been  spent  furthering  this  propaganda.  The  arch-enemy 
of  this  amendment  is  the  Association  Against  the  18th  Amendment,  an 
organization  small  in  numbers,  but  powerful  in  influence  because  of  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


115 


enormous  sums  of  money  it  can  command.  More  than  fifty  millionaires 
are  reported  to  have  membership  in  it.  Many  millions  of  dollars  have 
been  spent  in  its  work.  Why?  Because  if  beer  and  other  alcoholic 
beverages  can  be  taxed  and  large  revenues  secured  from  this  source,  the 
rich  will  pay  smaller  income  and  corporation  taxes.  One  rich  man  said 
the  taxes  on  liquor  would  save  one  of  his  companies  alone  ten  million 
dollars  a  year  in  corporation  taxes.  And  his  family  have  several  large 
corporations.  "Yes,  let  us  have  beer  and  repeal  the  18th  Amendment," 
cry  the  rich  propagandists.  "Why?  Because  this  will  shift  huge  taxes 
from  our  shoulders"  to  the  backs  of  the  working  people  of  America,  a 
fact  that  workers  apparently  have  not  yet  recognized. 

Yes,  I  repeat,  brazen  selfishness  is  the  chief  motive  back  of  most 
repeal  propaganda.  Against  all  such  I  lift  my  voice.  I  stand  for  the 
18th  Amendment  and  against  its  repeal.  Would  that  every  member  of 
the  Church  and  every  citizen  stood  with  me.  Does  any  one  think  the 
Lord  will  be  pleased  with  us  if  by  any  act  of  ours  we  allow  evil  to  come 
nearer  to  our  doors  ? 

In  closing  I  again  call  to  repentance  and  proclaim  aloud,  "that  the 
coming  of  a  brighter  and  a  happier  day"  is  dependent  upon  our  living 
the  Golden  Rule  and  acknowledging  Jesus  Christ  as  our  Savior. 

The  Lord  help  us  so  to  do  I  pray  in  the  name  of  our  Redeemer, 
Amen. 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

Sometime  about  the  middle  of  March  I  took  note  that  the  governor 
of  this  state  issued  a  proclamation  to  the  citizens  thereof,  appointing  a 
day,  the  12th  of  March,  if  I  remember  right,  on  which  the  churches  of 
the  state  were  asked  to  hold  special  services  of  a  rather  patriotic  nature, 
giving  voice  and  prayer  to  convictions  and  ideas  that  would  be  uplifting, 
to  establish  confidence  in  our  nation,  and  to  entreat  the  favor  of  God 
towards  it.  I  think  there  was  quite  a  general  response  to  that  proclama- 
tion, as  indeed  there  ought  to  be  to  such  proclamations,  whether  by  the 
presidents  of  our  country  or  the  governors  of  our  state,  in  such  mat- 
ters as  thanksgiving  days,  and  if  necessary,  days  of  fasting  and  of 
seeking  any  special  favors  of  God. 

It  is  peculiarly  fitting  that  a  people  who  profess,  as  an  article  of 
their  faith:  "We  believe  in  being  subject  to  kings,  presidents,  rulers 
and  magistrates ;  in  obeying,  honoring,  and  sustaining  the  law" — to 
such  a  people  it  is  highly  fitting  that  heed  be  given  to  the  announcement 
made  for  reverence  in  our  feelings  and  faith  toward  God.  I  visited  some 
stakes  in  the  Church,  however,  where  circumstances,  which  I  suppose 
were  beyond  control,  did  not  admit  of  giving  heed  to  this  proclamation 
of  our  governor,  a  man  in  every  way  worthy  of  our  confidence,  and 
worthy  of  our  confidence  in  his  sincerity  and  his  faith  when  making 
such  a  proclamation  as  the  one  I  refer  to — and  I  speak  somewhat  under- 
standing^, because  I  have  known  him  from  his  boyhood,  arid  know  the 
value  and  virtue  of  his  life. 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  am  wondering  if  just  a  word  might  not  be  spoken  here,  at  this 
General  Conference,  that  would  be  fitting  and  proper,  to  recall  his  procla- 
mation and  the  purpose  of  it,  even  though  we  may  have  to  do  so  hurriedly. 
I  think,  perhaps,  that  would  be  as  good  a  contribution  as  I  could  make 
to  this  conference  session.  Especially  do  I  believe  that  because  I  think 
that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  occupies  a.  certain 
"pride  of  place"  in  connection  with  a  knowledge  of  the  terms  upon  which 
the  prosperity  and  the  redemption  of  this  nation  rest. 

I  remember  to  have  read  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  certain  passages 
that  bear  upon  this  thought.  We  are  told  in  that  precious  volume  of 
scripture  that  when  the  floods  receded  from  this  land  it  became  a  very 
choice  land  unto  the  Lord,  a  land  that,  through  this  word  of  the  Lord 
from  the  Nephite  race,  receives  its  most  precious  descriptive  name. 
At  any  rate,  this  was  the  decree :  "After  the  waters  had  receded  from 
off  the  face  of  this  land,  it  became  a  choice  land  above  all  other  lands, 
a  chosen  land  of  the  Lord ;  wherefore  the  Lord  would  have  that  all  men 
should  serve  him  who  dwell  upon  the  face  thereof." 

This  is  recorded  in  the  Book  of  Ether,  which  Moroni  translated 
and  added  to  the  compilation  made  by  his  father.  And  further  it  is 
said — and  this  information  was  first  imparted  unto  the  Nephites — as  I 
remember  it,  Brother  Ivins  quoted  part  of  it — that  all  those  who  should 
come  to  this  land  should  be  brought  of  the  Lord ;  that  it  was  a  choice 
land  in  which  should  be  assembled  those  whom  God  would  lead,  by  the 
inspiration  of  his  Spirit,  unto  this  land.  This  truth  was  especially  made 
known  unto  the  Jaredites,  and  stands  as  follows — that  if  they  kept  not 
the  commandments  of  God  they  should  be  swept  off  when  the  fulness 
of  his  wrath  should  come  upon  them : 

"And  now,  we  can  behold  the  decrees  of  God  concerning  this  land,  that  it  is  a 
land  of  promise ;  and  whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it  shall  serve  God,  or  they  shall 
be  swept  off  when  the  fulness  of  his  wrath  shall  come  upon  themi.  And  the 
fulness  of  his  wrath  cometh  upon  them  when  they  are  ripened  in  iniquity.  *  *  * 

"Wherefore  he  that  doth  possess  it  shall  serve  God  or  shall  be  swept  off ;  for 
it  is  the  everlasting  decree  of  God.  *  *  * 

"And  this  cometh" — 

And  this,  by  the  way,  is  the  comment  of  Moroni  upon  this  fact  which 
had  been  brought  vividly  before  him  from  the  Jaredite  record.  Now, 
he  makes  a  very  wonderful  contribution  in  this  comment: 

"And  this  cometh  unto  you,  O  ye  Gentiles,  that  ye  may  know  the  decrees  of 
God — that  ye  may  repent,  and  not  continue  in  your  iniquities  until  the  fulness  come, 
that  ye  may  not  bring  down  the  fulness  of  the  wrath  of  God  upon  you  as  the  in- 
habitants of  the  land  have  hitherto  done." 

Now,  of  course,  Moroni,  in  making  this  comment,  had  before  him 
the  vivid  recollection  of  the  destruction  of  the  Jaredites  to  the  last  man, 
and  he  had  before  him  also  the  destruction  of  the  Nephites,  with  the 
exception  of  a  few  who  had  fled  to  the  land  southward.  Hence  these 
lessons,  so  vividly  before  him,  warranted  him  in  sounding  this  note  of 
warning  unto  the  great  Gentile  nation  that  was  to  occupy  this  choice 
land  in  the  last  days,  the  land  choice  above  all  other  lands. 

"That  ye  may  repent,"  he  continues,  "and  not  continue  in  your  iniquities  until 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS  117 


the  fulness  come,  that  ye  may  not  bring  down  the  fulness  of  the  wrath  of  God 
upon  you  as  the  inhabitants  of  the  land  have  hitherto  done. 

"Behold,  this  is  a  choice  land,  and  whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it  shall  be 
free  from  bondage,  and  from  captivity,  and  from  all  other  nations  under  heaven, 
if  they  will  but  serve  the  God  of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ,  who  hath  been  man- 
ifested by  the  things  which  we  have  written." 

Then  again,  there  are  two  great  prophecies  in  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  I  think  after  the  witness  which  the  Book  of  Mormon  bears  to  the 
divinity  of  the  Christ,  affirming  that  he  is  the  Son  of  God,  and  after 
affirming  that  he  is  the  Savior  of  the  world,  and  after  bearing  witness 
to  the  truth  of  the  Gospel — then  I  think  that  this  new  American 
witness  for  God  has  its  next  important  item  in  the  fact  that  it 
lays  down  these  prophecies  concerning  the  great  Gentile  nation 
that  should  rise  and  which  would  scatter  the  children  of  Israel  upon 
the  face  of  the  land,  and  yet,  afterwards,  be  touched  by  the  spirit  of  pity 
and  concern  which  would  lead  them  to  seek  the  preservation  of  the  in- 
habitants of  the  land ;  that  the  seed  of  Joseph,  so  wonderfully  gathered 
here  and  developed  into  a  multitude  of  nations,  should  not  be  utterly 
destroyed,  but  should  be  preserved,  and  that,  too,  by  this  great  nation 
that  should  be  such  an  instrument  in  scattering  them  in  the  earth.  The 
promises  of  the  Lord  in  respect  to  these  things  are  very  wonderful  and 
make  the  Book  of  Mormon  one  of  the  most  valuable  books  that  has  ever 
been  preserved,  even  as  holy  scripture. 

This  is  said  in  regard  to  the  above  nation,  which  constitutes  the  first 
prophecy,  namely : 

"Thou  beholdest  that  the  Gentiles  who  have  gone  forth  out  of  captivity,  and 
have  been  lifted  up  by  the  power  of  God  above  all  other  nations,  upon  the  face  of 
the  land  which  is  choice  above  all  other  lands,  *  *  *  thou  seest  that  the  Lord  will 
not  suffer  that  the  Gentiles  will  utterly  destroy  the  mixture  of  thy  seed,  which  are 
among  thy  brethren." 

So  there  was  this  prediction.  Now,  of  course,  perhaps  the  world 
will  not  admit  that  this  was  a  prophecy  uttered  some  six  hundred  years 
before  the  coming  of  the  Christ  upon  this  land ;  but  it  must  be  inevitably 
conceded  that  these  words  are  prophetic,  because  they  were  uttered  in 
1830,  when  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  published.  At  that  time,  of  course, 
the  Gentile  nation  here  under  the  government  of  the  United  States  num- 
bered but  about  thirty  millions ;  and  now,  behold,  the  great  Gentile 
nation  has  become  so  increased  in  numbers  and  in  power  that  there  are 
perhaps  nearly  a  hundred  and  thirty  millions  that  constitute  the  citizens 
of  the  United  States. 

As  for  its  power  and  dominion  above  all  other  nations  of  the  earth, 
it  has  become  somewhat  customary  to  speak  of  America,  but  we  gener- 
ally mean  the  United  States  of  America.  Some  of  the  Latin  American 
republics  take  exception  to  this  assumption  of  supreme  domination  in 
the  western  world,  and  demur  from  such  homage  being  given  to  the 
United  States.  But  nevertheless  it  is  a  fact  which  exists,  and  the  dom- 
inating political  power,  the  master  spirit  and  dominant  power  in  a  po- 
litical way,  is  this  Anglo-Saxon  republic  known  as  the  United  States 
of  America. 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


That  nation  alone  was  competent  to  state  the  great  Monroe  Doc- 
trine, to  the  effect  that  these  continents  were  closed  to  the  establishment 
of  the  political  systems  of  Europe,  and  they  could  not  attempt  to  intro- 
duce such  systems  as  theirs  in  this  country,  without  giving  offense  to 
the  United  States  of  America ;  and  behind  the  utterance  was  the  neces- 
sary force  to  maintain  such  a  declaration;  it  was  inherent  in  the  great 
Anglo-Saxon  republic  of  this  country. 

The  above  is  one  prediction  of  the  rise  of  a  great  nation  that  should 
be  the  greatest  nation  upon  the  face  of  this  choice  land.  But  that  is 
only  part  of  the  prophecy.  During  the  time  that  Jesus  Christ  visited 
this  promised  land  he  gave  an  utterance  in  regard  to  this  matter  that  is 
extremely  important.  I  want  to  read  to  you  his  words,  the  choicest 
words  that  can  be  spoken  in  relation  to  the  land,  and  which  join  in  the 
music  from  the  inspiration  of  God,  under  which  these,  my  brethren, 
have  been  speaking  to  you,  in  relation  to  the  deliverance  from  distressing 
problems  and  disastrous  circumstances  into  which  we  have  been  plunged. 
The  Christ  makes  this  declaration — the  resurrected  Christ,  while  min- 
istering among  the  Nephites : 

"And  thus  comtnandeth  the  Father  that  I  should  say  unto  you :  At  that  day 
when  the  Gentiles  shall  sin  against  my  gospel,  and  shall  be  lifted  up  in  the  pride 
of  their  hearts  above  all  nations,  and  above  all  the  people  of  the  whole  earth,  and 
shall  be  filled"— 

and  I  ask  you  to  note  especially  this  list  of  American  sins — 

"  —  shall  be  filled  with  all  manner  of  lyings,  and  of  deceits,  and  of  mischiefs, 
and  all  manner  of  hypocrisy,  and  murders,  and  priestcrafts,  and  whoredoms,  and  of 
secret  abominations;  and  if  they  shall  do  all  those  things,  and  shall  reject  the 
fulness  of  my  gospel,  behold,  saith  the  Father,  I  will  bring  the  fulness  of  my 
gospel  from  among  them." 

I  think  possibly  it  could  be  held  as  true  that  they  did  that  when  the 
members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  were  ex- 
patriated from  Illinois  and  finally  from  the  United  States  itself,  and 
had  to  come  to  this  high  mountain  valley,  then  the  territory  of  the  re- 
public of  Mexico.    But  mark  this  : 

"And  then  I  will  remember  my  covenant  which  I  have  made  unto  my  people, 
O  house  of  Israel,  and  I  will  bring  my  gospel  unto  them : 

"And  I  will  show  unto  thee,  O  house  of  Israel,  that  the  Gentiles  shall  not  have 
power  over  you ;  but  I  will  remember  my  covenant  unto  you  O,  house  of  Israel,  and 
ye  shall  come  unto  the  knowledge  of  the  fulness  of  my  gospel." 

"But  IF" — I  wish  to  emphasize  this — "But  IF  the  Gentiles  will  repent  and 
return  unto  me,  saith  the  Father,  behold  they  shall  be  numbered  among  my  people, 
O  house  of  Israel. 

"And  I  will  not  suffer  my  people,  who  are  of  the  house  of  Israel,  to  go  through 
among  them,  and  tread  them  down,  saith  the  Father. 

"But  IF  they  will  not  turn  unto  me,  and  hearken  unto  my  voice,  I  will  suffer 
them,  yea,  I  will  suffer  my  people,  O  house  of  Israel,  that  they  shall  go  through 
among  them,  and  shall  tread  them  down,  and  they  shall  be  as  salt  that  hath 
lost  its  savor." 

There  is  not  time  for  me  to  dwell  more  at  large  upon  these  things, 
but  I  think  I  have  before  you  now  the  word  of  the  Lord  sufficiently  to 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS  119 


cooperate  with  the  declaration  that  has  been  made  here,  that  though 
the  great  Gentile  nation  shall  commit  that  long  list  of  very  serious  and 
grievous  sins,  still  if  they  will  repent  they  shall  have  lot  and  part  with 
the  people  of  the  Lord  in  building  up  Zion  and  accomplishing  the  pur- 
poses of  the  Lord.  That  is  the  great  truth  that  I  wish  to  emphasize  in 
my  remarks,  and  that  we  may  have  hope,  under  these  teachings  of  the 
Son  of  God,  for  the  great  Gentile  nation  upon  this  land. 

I  believe  that  it  is  our  duty  and  responsibility  to  sound  this  note  of 
warning,  and  point  out  the  way  of  escape :  that  if  the  nation  that  inhabits 
this  land  will  hold  its  place  by  adhering  to  the  things  of  God,  and  by 
doing  his  will  and  honoring  the  God  of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ,  the 
nation  can  be  preserved.   The  scriptures  definitely  say  so. 

Now,  I  ask  myself  of  late:  How  far  is  the  great  Gentile  nation  hon- 
oring the  God  of  the  land  ?  Well,  there  is  much  in  their  favor  in  that 
respect.  I  look  down  the  line  of  that  splendid  list  of  men  who  have 
been  the  presidents  of  the  United  States,  and  the  most  of  them  may  have 
claim  upon  faith  in  Christ,  faith  in  the  Christian  religion.  They  may 
not  have  been  devoted  as  partisans  to  this  church  or  to  that  church, 
but  they  have  had  broad-minded  views  and  have  felt  the  necessity  of 
honoring  the  God  of  this  land  in  their  faith  and  in  their  actions. 

While  listening  to  the  inauguration-day  proceedings  of  our  present 
President  of  the  United  States,  I  felt  a  thrill  of  happiness  go  through 
me  when  I  found  him,  on  his  way  to  pick  up  President  Hoover  to  go 
to  the  inaugural  ceremonies,  stopping  to  visit  his  church,  to  approach  its 
altar  and  remember  God  in  prayer. 

I  was  happy  when  I  heard  the  proceedings  in  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives, and  found  that  a  prayer — and  I  believe  an  earnest,  Christian 
prayer — was  offered  up  in  the  House  of  Representatives  and  in  the 
Senate.  And  I  was  still  happier  when  I  heard  the  President,  in  his 
inaugural  address,  admonish  the  people  to  have  faith  in  God  and  to  trust 
in  him,  and  pray  that  the  people  might  be  guided  by  the  inspiration  of 
the  Lord ;  and  especially  when  he  said,  near  the  close  of  his  remarks,  that 
he  prayed  that  "God  would  guide  him  in  the  days  to  come." 

Now,  all  these  circumstances  are  hopeful.  There  is  still  faith  in  this 
great  people  that  God  has  raised  up  upon  this  land  to  direct  in  the  civil 
affairs  of  men.  I  think  sometimes  when  I  read  those  great  words  in  the 
Declaration  of  Independence,  that  governments  derive  their  just  powers 
from  the  consent  of  the  governed,  that  truly  and  really  the  law  of  the 
Lord  is  going  forth  from  Zion  as  the  word  of  the  Lord — even  the  word 
of  him  that  is  the  Word  that  was  in  the  beginning  with  God,  and 
that  was  God,  and  that  was  made  flesh  and  dwelt  among  men,  where 
men  could  behold  his  grace  and  his  power,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ — 
went  forth  from  Jerusalem. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  think  we  have  reason  to  hope  for  our 
nation.  I  believe  the  testimony  of  President  Ivins  to  be  true,  that  we 
have  a  God-established  government  here,  and  also  under  its  protecting 
aegis  we  have  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  established  in  the  fulness  of 
time,  for  the  last  time,  to  bring  to  pass  the  purposes  of  God  in  the  sal- 
vation of  men. 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  see  a  beautiful  unity  in  these  things  found  in  the  Book  of  Mormon 
and  the  testimonies  to  which  we  have  listened  during  this  conference. 
I  think  we  have  the  right  to  lift  up  the  drooping  hand,  and  to  speak  the 
word  of  encouragement  to'  the  people  of  the  United  States,  and  chiefly 
for  this  reason,  that  neither  the  government  of  the  United  States,  in 
its  achievements  and  in  its  character  of  great  leadership,  nor  the  Church, 
has  yet  reached  the  climax  of  those  things  for  which  they  were  estab- 
lished. So  my  faith  is  that  we  have  a  right  to  expect  recovery  and  re- 
newal of  faith  with  God,  and  fellowship  with  him ;  for  we  still  bow  the 
knee  and  still  proclaim  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  God  of  this  land 
and  of  all  the  earth.  And  as  long  as  that  is  our  national  attitude,  I  be- 
lieve that  the  light  of  hope  is  not  obliterated. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  the  nation,  to  bless  the  Church,  and  all  that 
pertains  to  it,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HE.BER  J.  GRANT 

I  feel  that  we  owe  a  very  deep  debt  of  gratitude  to  Evan  Stephens, 
George  Careless,  Joseph  J.  Daynes,  Ebenezer  Beesley  and  others  who 
have  written  beautiful  music  for  us.  I  am  free  to  confess  that  when  I 
go  out  into  the  country  districts  and  hear  sung  certain  anthems,  I  wonder 
why  the  people  do  not  show  preference  for  the  home-made  article.  I 
think  that  Evan  Stephens  and  these  other  men  were  inspired  of  the 
Lord  to  write  music  for  us.  I  do  not  want  to  reflect  on  any  of  the  mag- 
nificent things  that  have  been  written  by  others,  but  I  have  gone  to  many 
a  conference  where  I  have  listened  to  anthems  when  I  would  rather 
have  heard  a  good  Latter-day  Saint  hymn  sung. 

An  anthem,  "Grant  us  Peace,"  was  sung  by  the  Choir. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

My  brethren  and  sisters  :  As  I  have  sat  On  the  stand  here  and  looked 
into  your  faces,  the  past  day  or  two,  I  have  been  built  up  in  spirit  and 
in  truth.  I  realize  the  fineness  and  the  honesty  of  the  brethren  who 
hold  the  priesthood  of  God. 

This  is  a  time  of  much  trial  and  sorrow.  The  greatest  need  today 
is  that  human  hearts  shall  find  comfort,  and  I  believe  you  have  found 
comfort  in  coming  up  to  this  holy  tabernacle  of  God,  where  one  hears 
the  word  of  God.  Men  need  encouragement ;  they  need  divine  light 
and  understanding.  They  need  to  see  those  "divine  truths  that  come 
of  the  Eternal  Father  in  the  name  of  Christ,"  as  a  prophet  of  old  once 
said.   And  this  American  prophet  further  said : 

"If  ye  shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  having  faith  in  Christ, 
he  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
"And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ye  may  know  the  truth  of  all  things." 

Do  we  believe  and  understand  these  divine  words?  Jesus  once 
said :  "Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart,  for  they  shall  see  God."    Do  we 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


121 


see?  Are  we  opening  our  hearts  to  the  truth  that  life  has  a  meaning, 
and  a  meaning  for  good?  Are  we  learning  obedience  by  the  things 
we  suffer?  If  so,  you  and  I  are  bending  to  the  will  of  God,  and  coming 
through  the  strife  unto  greater  faith  and  unto  peace. 

This  is  a  day  of  sore  trial  for  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth.  Na- 
tions are  tottering  and  governments  are  in  danger  of  being  overthrown. 
Hardly  a  day  passes  but  what  we  hear  of  some  terrible  catastrophe  or 
some  awful  tribulation  that  has  come  to  the  children  of  men.  "Dark- 
ness covers  the  earth,  and  gross  darkness  the  people."  We  are  being 
disciplined;  and  when  we  come  to  know  the  wisdom  of  this,  we  will 
look  upon  the  whole  of  life  as  a  means  of  sanctification. 

One  time  when  Israel  was  sore  tried,  her  homes  destroyed,  her 
children  starved,  her  people  driven  into  the  wilderness,  one  of  her 
prophets  wrote : 

"Comfort  ye,  comfort  ye,  my  people,  saith  your  God.  *  *  * 
"Behold,  the  Lord  God  will  come  with  strong  hand,  and  his  arm  shall  rule  for 
him.  *  *  *   He  shall  feed  his  flock  like  a  shepherd :  he  shall  gather  the  lambs  with 
his  arm,  and  carry  them  in  his  bosom,  and  shall  gently  lead  those  that  are  with 
young.  *  *  * 

"But  they  that  wait  upon  the  Lord  shall  renew  their  strength ;  they  shall  mount 
with  wings  as  eagles ;  they  shall  run,  and  not  be  weary ;  they  shall  walk,  and  not 
faint;" 

I  sincerely  believe  that  these  days  are  bringing  us  closer  and  closer 
to  God.  We  have  prayed  in  our  hearts ;  and  we  have  come  up  to  this 
conference  with  joy.  Therefore,  may  we  abide  in  the  thought  and  the 
words  of  the  psalmist  of  ancient  Israel:  "Lord,  who  shall  abide  in  thy 
tabernacle  ?  Who  shall  dwell  in  thy  holy  hill  ?"  And  the  answer  was : 
"He  that  walketh  uprightly,  and  worketh  righteousness,  and  speaketh 
the  truth  in  his  heart." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  need  not  fear ;  we  need  not  be  afraid 
to  live,  and  to  look  up  with  ever  increasing  faith. 

"Behold,  the  Lord  God  will  come  with  strong  hand,  and  his  arm  shall  rule 
for  him.  *  *  *  He  shall  feed  his  flock  like  a  shepherd ;  he  shall  gather  the  lambs 
with  his  arm,  and  carry  them  in  his  bosom,  and  shall  gently  lead  those  that  are  with 
young.  *  *  *  But  they  that  wait  upon  the  Lord  shall  renew  their  strength;  they 
shall  mount  with  wings  as  eagles ;  they  shall  run  and  not  be  weary ;  they  shall 
walk  and  not  faint. 

"And  so  what  doth  the  Lord  require  of  thee,  but  to  do  justly;  and  to  love 
mercy,  and  to  walk  humbly  with  thy  God." 

May  we  become  the  pure  in  heart  and  see  God,  I  ask  in  Jesus'  name. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  hold  in  my  hand  a  book  entitled,  "In  Search  of  Truth,"  written 
by  the  only  absentee  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  Elder 
John  A.  Widtsoe,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  I  had  marked  enough 
passages  in  the  book  to  occupy  fully  twenty  minutes  of  your  time  were 
I  to  read  them,  but  there  are  not  twenty  minutes  left  unless  we  eliminate 
Brother  Ballard  entirely,  and  I  am  willing  to  divide  evenly  with  him. 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  am  going  to  read  the  last  chapter  of  this  book.  I  think  I  can  do 
it  readily  in  ten  minutes : 

THE  WAY  TO  TRUTH 

The  way  to  truth?  O  yes,  there  is  such  a  royal  road,  and  any  man  may  find 
and  follow  it.  True,  it  leads  straight  for  the  goal  and  therefore  is  not  attractive 
to  those  who  like  to  meander  and  loiter  among  pretty  fields  of  pseudo-truth.  But 
those  who  have  trodden  the  royal  way,  and  their  names  are  legion,  bear  witness  to 
the  surpassing  joy  of  the  journey. 

Desire. 

The  way  to  truth  may  be  found  by  anyone  who  desires  it.  But,  he  must  desire 
it  with  all  his  might,  mind  and  strength.  A  Sunday  wish  will  not  suffice.  The 
desire  must  suffuse  and  penetrate  every  waking  moment.  One's  whole  being  must 
reach  out  for  truth,  a  fragment  of  which  must  become  more  precious  than  the 
whole  scintillating  world  of  untruth.  Life  itself  must  seem  a  small  price  to  pay 
for  the  possession  of  truth. 

Such  a  desire  leads  one  inevitably  to  the  gateway  of  truth.  The  great  ones- 
of  all  ages,  prophets,  poets,  philosophers,  and  scientists,  who  have  moved  the  world 
forward,  have  been  vibrating  lovers  of  truth.  They  have  not  found  this  gem 
of  gems  accidentally,  but  it  has  been  revealed  to  them  as  the  result  of  their  earnest 
struggle.  They  set  out  with  the  power  of  desire  in  their  souls,  and  victory  was 
assured.  To  such,  truth  cannot  be  denied.  It  comes  to  them  with  a  "great  wakening 
light,'1'  as  servant  and  friend.  Modern  science  has  revealed  that  wherever  the 
searcher  goes  truth  is  found.  The  prophet  Alma  has  formulated  the  thought,  "He 
granteth  unto  men  according  to  their  desire." 

Many  a  mighty  but  stubborn  soul  has  haunted  the  moorlands  of  life  because  it 
refused  to  yield  itself  to  the  desire  for  truth  rather  than  to  its  own  wilfulness. 
Many  a  simple  but  fervent  soul,  asking  for  truth  above  all  else,  has  won  the  kin- 
ship of  happy  understanding  among  the  restless  multitude.  Love  of  truth  cannot 
thrive  with  an  undisciplined  will.  Therefore  the  will  for  truth  leads  man  farther 
than  the  possession  of  powerful  physical  or  intellectual  strength.  There  is  no 
real  desire  for  truth  unless  the  individual  is  ready  to  lay  by,  if  needs  be,  his 
former  conceptions,  in  favor  of  the  greater  truth  that  he  has  found.  The  un- 
believer usually  comforts  himself  with  the  assurance  that  his  analytical  powers 
will  lead  him  to  truth,  and  forgets  that  the  first  requisite  is  a  consuming  desire  to 
know  things  as  they  really  are. 

Prayer. 

Truth  is  unlimited :  that  is  the  clarion  cry  of  science  and  of  religion.  The 
search  for  truth  is  a  process  of  discovering  the  unknown,  of  throwing  light  into 
dark  places.  The  searcher  interprets  the  language  of  life  and  reads  the  will  of 
God.  And  he  is  able  to  do  so  because  he  is  in  tune  or  communion  with  the  truth  he 
seeks.  He  must  believe  that  it  is  there;  he  must  seek,  as  it  were,  to  touch  it  and  to 
be  led  by  it.    Such  attempts  to  be  in  harmony  with  truth  is  prayer. 

Men  who  search  out  truth  are  prayerful.  They  stand  with  uncovered  heads 
before  the  unknown.  They  know  their  own  insignificance  before  the  eternal  fount 
of  knowledge.  Certainly,  there  are  some  truth-seekers,  usually  busy  in  material 
fields,  who  do  not  speak  to  the  Lord  directly,  but  they  also  stand  reverently  before 
the  power  in  all  things,  which  is  their  conception  of  God.  Prayer,  as  commonly 
understood,  or  its  equivalent,  is  a  requisite  for  those  who  are  to  travel  the  way  to 
truth.  _  Manly  men  who  really  love  truth,  are  proud  to  pray  to  God  for  help 
and  guidance.  They  get  down  on  their  knees.  Prayer  and  desire  go  hand  in  hand. 
Desire  says,  Let  us  go,  and  prayer  answers,  Here  is  the  way.  Desire  is  the  deter- 
mination to  build  the  house;  prayer  is  the  planning  and  making  ready  for  it. 
Desire  is  the  gasoline  in  the  engine,  prayer  the  ignition  that  permits  work  to  be 
done.  On  the  way  to  truth,  prayer  must  be  as  a  constant  jubilant  cry  of  the 
traveler. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


123 


To  win  knowledge  of  the  unseen,  to  obtain  a  testimony  of  truth,  one  must  pray 
without  ceasing.  It  must  be  the  first  and  last  act  of  the  day.  Then  we  shall  be 
in  tune  and  harmony  with  the  forces  about  us,  and  truth  will  wait  upon  us  and 
we  shall  recognize  it.    The  need  of  prayer  grows  with  the  increase  of  truth. 

Study. 

The  third  step  towards  the  way  to  truth  is  to  bend  actively  every  power  to  the 
elucidation  of  truth.  The  scientist  with  strong  desire  for  the  discovery  of  truth, 
and  a  prayer  in  his  heart  that  he  may  be  attuned  to  it,  and  thereby  be  able  to  recog- 
nize it,  sets  out  to  learn  all  that  is  known  about  the  subject,  and  then  he  experi- 
ments, records  and  analyzes,  until  at  last  the  new  discovery  comes  into  view.  It 
is  often  strenuous  labor.  Amundsen  who  saw  both  Poles  and  traveled  the  north- 
west passage,  had  a  burning  desire  for  exploration,  and  placed  himself  in  full 
harmony  with  the  spirit  of  discovery ;  then  he  informed  himself  as  few  men  have 
done  about  the  history  of  exploration,  ocean  currents,  magnetic  disturbance, 
meteorology,  navigation,  shipbuilding,  and  numerous  other  things  required  in  his 
coming  labors.  It  was  upon  such  a  preparation  that  he  built  his  immortal  career. 
Such  earnest  study  is  required  of  all  who  achieve  truth. 

The  field  of  religion  offers  no  exception.  To  understand  religious  truth  it 
must  be  studied.  The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  comprehends  all  other  knowledge. 
It  is  the  philosophy  that  explains  the  whole  of  man's  relationship  to  the  universe. 
It  invites  the  deepest  study  and  the  severest  scrutiny.  In  religion  as  in  science  the 
more  a  subject  is  studied,  the  more  perfect  is  our  knowledge  of  it.  Our  certainty 
of  the  truth  of  a  subject  does  not  necessarily  depend  upon  our  extent  of  knowledge, 
but  comprehensiveness  of  understanding  unquestionably  increases  as  knowledge 
grows. 

Failure  to  become  acquainted  with  a  subject  through  careful  study  has  led  to 
many  a  disaster,  especially  in  the  spiritual  field.  Men  who  have  spent  years  of 
study  to  perfect  themselves  in  a  science,  and  only  weeks  in  the  systematic  con- 
sideration of  religion,  often  set  themselves  up  with  splendid  indifference  to  con- 
sistency as  equally  competent  in  both  fields.  Religion  demands  studious  attention 
if  it  is  to  be  understood.  It  is  well  to  ask  the  blatant  unbeliever  something  about 
the  serious  study  he  has  given  the  subject. 

It  scarcely  needs  to  be  said  that  each  person  must  find  the  way  to  truth  for 
himself.  Another  man  cannot  desire  for  us  or  pray  in  our  stead,  or  study  in  our 
place.  That  can  be  done  neither  in  science  nor  religion.  The  help  received  from 
another  is  proportional  to  our  own  effort. 

The  recognition  of  this  principle  is  found  in  the  restored  church  of  Christ,  in 
which  the  priesthood  is  held  by  all  worthy  men,  and  all  members  participate  in 
church  activities.  In  the  progress  towards  truth  every  traveler  must  walk  upon 
his  own  feet.   Study  of  the  principles  of  truth  is  therefore  required  of  all. 

Practice. 

Truth  is  not  fully  established  until  it  is  put  to  the  test  of  practice ;  that  is,  truth 
must  be  obeyed  to  be  fully  known.  This  is  an  elementary  principle  of  scientific 
thought,  but  for  some  inexplicable  reason,  in  the  field  of  religion  it  has  seemed 
less  important. 

Yet,  use  gives  life  to  knowledge ;  it  converts  theory  into  certainty ;  it  is  the  con- 
vincing seal  of  testimony.  Practice  or  obedience  is  the  final  step  towards  the  way 
to  truth. 

This  is  the  most  difficult  requirement  made  of  the  truth-seeker.  After  he  has 
become  intellectually  convinced  of  the  truth  of  a  principle,  he  must  practice  it  to 
establish  its  final  certainty.  A  smoker  who  becomes  convinced  of  the  divine  truth 
of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  must  forego  the  use  of  tobacco;  or  if  convinced  of  the 
correctness  of  the  principle  of  tithing,  he  must  divide  with  the  Lord;  that  means 
a  battle  with  carnal  desires.  But  a  fulness  of  knowledge  concerning  the  principles 
of  truth  comes  only  from  obedience  to  them. 

The  strength  of  desire  and  the  sincerity  of  prayer  for  truth  are  here  given  the 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


acid  test.  Learning  the  law  may  be  a  pleasant  pastime,  but  obedience  to  law 
requires  yielding  of  the  will,  which  demands  the  assistance  of  flaming  desire  and 
intense  prayer.  When  the  man  of  knowledge  stops  short  of  practice,  his  desire  for 
truth  is  weak.  Many  of  the  critics  and  fault-finders  of  systems  of  truth  are  in  just 
such  a  condition.  They  know  or  fear  that  a  principle  is  true,  but  have  not  the 
courage  to  try  it  out.  Thousands  of  thinking  people  know  that  "Mormonism"  is 
true,  but  they  dare  not  practice  its  tenets  and  yield  obedience  to  its  requirements. 
Such  people  have  no  right  to  set  themselves  up  as  guides  to  others;  they  would 
better  devote  themselves  to  the  subjection  of  their  wills  to  the  call  of  truth.  And, 
by  a  curious  token,  study  and.  practice  nourish  desire  and  give  direction  to  prayer, 
and  thus  strengthen  the  will. 

A  Testimony. 

The  way  to  truth  ?  Yes,  it  may  be  found  easily,  but  only  by  paying  the  eternal 
price  of  truth.  The  way  is  through  the  higher  logic,  the  convincing  teaching  of 
the  spirit  of  truth  by  the  operations  of  the  mind  and  the  eager  outreaching  of  the 
spirit  of  God. 

Whoever  would  find  truth  must : 

(1)  Desire  truth, 

(2)  Pray  for  it, 

(3)  Study,  and 

(4)  Practice  it. 

Those  who  do  so  will  find  truth,  for  it  cannot  be  denied  them.  They  will 
receive  the  glorious  and  priceless  possession  called  a  testimony  or  complete  assur- 
ance of  truth,  which  becomes  the  great  gift  of  God  to  its  possessor. 

Is  truth  worth  the  effort  necessary  to  secure  it? 

Truth  is  the  only  enduring  possession  of  man;  the  only  power  that  lifts  man 
into  permanent  joy.  It  is  the  final  justification  of  life.  Human  days  are  valueless 
if  truth  is  not  worth  every  sacrifice  of  life.  Those  who  have  lived  most  have  lived 
by  truth.    So  speaks  the  voice  of  human  experience. 

I  have  read  from  the  book,  "In  Search  of  Truth,"  because  I  desire 
that  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe,  the  only  absentee  of  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church  and  the  President  of  the  European  Mission,  be  repre- 
sented in  our  Conference  Pamphlet. 

God  bless  you  all,  Amen. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  desire,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  read  two  short  extracts  from 
a  revelation  of  the  Lord,  given  one  hundred  years  ago  to  the  Church. 
The  first  is  from  the  eighty-sixth  section : 

"Therefore,  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  you,  with  whom  the  priesthood  hath 
continued  through  the  lineage  of  your  fathers — 

"For  ye  are  lawful  heirs,  according  to  the  flesh,  and  have  been  hid  from  the 
world  with  Christ  in  God — 

"Therefore  your  life  and  the  priesthood  have  remained,  and  must  needs 
remain  through  you  and  your  lineage  until  the  restoration  of  all  things  spoken 
by  the  mouths  of  all  the  holy  prophets  since  the  world  began. 

"Therefore,  blessed  are  ye  if  ye  continue  in  my  goodness,  a  light  unto  the 
Gentiles,  and  through  this  priesthood,  a  savior  unto  my  people  Israel.  The  Lord 
hath  said  it." 

The  other  is  from  the  one  hundred  fifteenth  section,  an  address  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  to  the  Church : 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


125 


"Verily  I  say  unto  you  all :  Arise  and  shine  forth,  that  thy  light  may  be  a 
standard  for  the  nations; 

"And  that  the  gathering  together  upon  the  land  of  Zion,  and  upon  her  stakes, 
may  be  for  a  defence,  and  for  a  refuge  from  the  storm,  and  from  wrath  when  it 
shall  be  poured  out  without  mixture  upon  the  whole  earth." 

THE  HIGHEST  PERCENTAGE  OF  GROWTH 

We  were  all  made  glad,  a  few  weeks  ago,  to  learn  from  President 
Hoover's  Social  Welfare  Committee,  which  had  been  studying  the  social 
trends  of  the  United  States,  that  covering  a  period  of  some  twenty-seven 
years  this  Church  has  made  the  greatest  progress  of  any  church  in 
America,  with  a  growth  of  290  per  cent.  There  is  not  another  one  that 
approaches  us.  We  are  glad  for  that,  and  particularly  to  know  that  this 
is  taking  place  in  the  age  of  the  world's  greatest  enlightenment.  But 
we  are  more  interested  in  the  quality  of  men  and  women  this  Church  has 
produced  than  in  the  numbers.  Numbers  have  never  meant  very  much 
in  the  past,  and  they  may  not  mean  much  in  the  future,  but  quality  is 
everything. 

A  NEW  DAY 

We  are  approaching,  in  my  humble  judgment,  a  new  day  in  the 
history  of  the  Church.  I  thought  of  it  some  few  months  ago  while 
going  through  the  Northern  States  Mission.  I  had  the  first  opportunity 
in  my  life  of  visiting  Kirtland,  the  first  city  the  Latter-day  Saints  built. 
As  we  went  through  the  wonderful  temple  where  the  marvelous  mani- 
festations were  made  to  Joseph,  in  the  visit  of  those  holy  messengers  who 
delivered  to  him  divine  keys  of  authority,  I  thought  of  the  things  that 
had  occurred  in  the  hundred  years  that  had  passed,  and  saw  ever  an 
objective  before  the  Church — the  struggle  to  maintain  themselves,  to  find 
new  homes,  the  flight  across  the  plains,  the  battle  with  the  wilderness 
here,  eking  out  an  existence,  fighting  our  common  enemies.  There  was 
always  something  before  us  that  seemed  to  center  our  attention,  worthy 
of  every  effort. 

And  now  we  have  reached,  I  say,  a  new  day,  in  my  judgment. 
Having  been  through  the  days  of  immigration  and  migration,  and  of 
struggle  to  maintain  ourselves,  having  won  at  least  the  right  to  exist, 
we  have  reached  the  day  of  demonstration,  when  indeed,  in  the  language 
of  this  revelation,  we  are  to  arise  and  shine  and  show  forth  a  standard, 
a  pattern  to  the  world,  a  world  that  has  been  humbled.  A  world  that  was 
proud  and  haughty,  finding  itself  almost  independent  of  God,  has  been 
brought  to  its  knees,  so  to  speak. 

OUR  TIME  OF  OPPORTUNITY 

In  my  own  experience  in  traveling  about  in  various  sections  of 
this  country,  recently  I  have  noticed  a  disposition  to  listen  as  neiver 
before  to  any  one  who  has  any  light,  any  inspiration  or  any  help.  Truly 
we  have  reached  the  time  when  the  wisdom  of  the  wise  has  perished, 
and  the  understanding  of  the  prudent  is  hid.  God  designed  that  this 
Church  should  not  be  ignored,  neither  set  in  a  corner,  but  he  has  shaped 
and  fashioned  the  destinies  of  the  world  until  they  will  be  brought  to 
receive  his  message.  He  is  now  looking  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  show 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


by  their  lives,  by  their  conduct,  that  there  is  power  and  strength  in  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  meet  and  to  solve  every  problem. 

For  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  this  world,  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  has  an  opportunity.  I  recognize  that  Christianity  had  many 
virtues,  many  of  the  teachings  of  Christ  that  influenced  their  lives ;  but 
as  the  Lord  himself  declared  to  Joseph  Smith  a  hundred  years  ago,  they 
had  the  form  of  religion  but  not  the  power  thereof.  They  were  helpless 
to  meet  and  cope  with  these  conditions. 

The  true  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  never  been  tested.  It  is  now 
receiving  its  opportunity,  and  a  world  that  is  willing  to  listen,  through 
the  very  circumstances  through  which  we  have  passed,  will  be  willing 
to  pay  heed  and  attention  as  never  before,  not  only  to  what  we  say — 
that  is  not  the  important  thing,  for  the  most  powerful  sermons  we 
have  ever  preached  are  the  sermons  of  our  lives. 

AN  ENSIGN  TO  THE  WORLD 

So  as  we  listened  to  the  address  of  our  President,  who  made  an 
appeal  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  live  up  to  these  high  Gospel  standards 
as  contained  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  in  my  heart  I  said :  "Oh,  if  the 
youth  of  the  Church  could  catch  the  vision  the  Lord  had  in  giving  this 
revelation,  and  not  merely  want  to  yield  obedience  to  what  the  President 
of  the  Church  requires  of  them  in  order  to  be  obedient  to  him,  but  get  a 
vision  of  it !"  It  is  the  place  the  Lord  has  for  them.  What  is  that  place? 
To  set  a  pattern,  to  be  an  ensign,  character  builders  who  will  attract  the 
attention  of  the  world  if  we  will  only  live  up  to  these  standards. 

In  listening  to  the  address  that  he  made — an  appeal  f  or  honesty — I 
said  in  my  heart:  "Oh,  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  could  still  adhere  to 
the  standards  of  their  fathers,  when  they  made  all  with  whom  they  came 
in  contact  acknowledge  that  a  Mormon's  word  was  as  good  as  his  bond  !" 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  this  time  of  trouble  and  strife,  when 
men  and  women  are  being  swept  off  their  feet  and  are  in  many  instances 
taking  the  law  into  their  own  hands,  here  is  an  opportunity  for  Latter-day 
Saints  to  show  their  superior  quality  in  their  willingness  to  honor  and 
obey  and  sustain  the  law  and  let  it  take  its  course,  and  not  becomle 
bolshevik  ourselves.    Shall  we  cry  and  become  rebellious  ? 

THE  COURAGE  OF  OUR  FATHERS 

I  thought  of  it  while  in  Kirtland.  What  a  sacrifice  it  must  have 
meant  to  those  brethren  to  leave  that  wonderful  temple,  wonderful  even 
today,  their  homes,  their  all !  But  did  they  quit  and  cry  about  it  ?  No. 
They  went  across  the  country  to  Independence,  started  to  build  again. 
Driven  from  Independence,  in  the  central  part  of  Missouri,  they  started 
to  lay  the  foundation  of  another  temple  over  in  Nauvoo,  where  they 
had  accomplished  wonders  in  the  building  of  a  city  of  some  twenty 
thousand  people.  Twenty  thousand  people  in  Nauvoo  when  Chicago, 
which  this  year  is  celebrating  its  hundredth  anniversary,  was  a  village 
of  4,620  souls.  Yet  they  had  to  leave  it  all.  Stripped  and  peeled,  they 
crossed  the  great  deserts  and  came  into  these  mountains.  Were  they 
quitters?    No.    Though  everything  was  taken  from  them,  there  was 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


127 


in  them  the  strength  and  courage  to  meet  disaster  after  disaster.  They 
stood  like  beaten  anvils,  with  their  f  aith  unbroken. 

VIRILITY  AND  STRENGTH  IN  THE  GOSPEL 

Shall  we,  their  children,  show  the  white  feather  now?  Suppose 
through  our  own  mistakes  we  have  lost  some  of  our  property,  some  of 
the  advantages,  that  we  thought  we  had,  some  of  our  money,  shall  we 
become  sour  and  bitter,  and  rail  against  the  providences  of  God?  Or 
shall  we,  like  our  fathers,  profit  by  our  mistakes  and  build  again,  even 
though  we  lost  it  all  ?  I  believe  we  will  rise  to  the  occasion.  We  are  at 
a  time  when  we  are  going  to  demonstrate  to  the  world  the  virility,  the 
power  and  the  strength  that  are  in  the  real  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  to 
meet  and  solve  all  these  problems  no  matter  what  they  are. 

IN  SUPPORT  OF  THE  CONSTITUTION 

I  believe  that  it  is  the  destiny  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  support 
the  Constitution  of  the  United  States.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  is 
alleged  to  have  said — and  I  believe  he  did  say  it — that  the  day  would  come 
when  the  Constitution  would  hang  as  by  a  thread.  But  he  saw  that  the 
thread  did  not  break,  thank  the  Lord,  and  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
would  become  a  balance  of  power,  with  others,  to  preserve  that  Con- 
stitution. If  there  is — and  there  is  one  part  of  the  Constitution  hanging 
as  by  a  thread  today — where  do  the  Latter-day  Saints  belong?  Their 
place  is  to  rally  to  the  support  of  that  Constitution,  and  maintain  it  and 
defend  it  and  support  it  by  their  lives  and  by  their  vote.  Let  us  not 
disappoint  God  nor  his  prophet.    Our  place  is  fixed. 

A  BETTER  DAY 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  been  three  years  getting  down 
into  the  bottom — if  we  are  at  the  bottom — of  this  depression.  Have 
we  patience  to  work  on  out?  Suppose  it  takes  three  years  longer  to 
get  out  of  it,  are  you  willing  to  be  patient  that  long  ?  I  believe  you  are. 
Though  it  may  take  that  length  of  time,  if  there  shall  come  to  us  hope 
and  faith  and  courage  we  can  work  out,  and  we  shall.  We  are  in  the 
birth  pangs  of  a  glorious  day.  God's  purposes  are  going  forward  in  the 
earth.  Everything  is  working  towards  a  better  day.  There  is  hope 
ahead,  and  especially  for  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  Let  us  carry  home 
with  us  the  spirit  of  this  conference,  that  we  may  renew  our  faith,  and 
with  courage  dispel  pessimism,  increase  optimism,  and  look  to  our  glorious 
opportunity  to  arise  and  shine  in  a  practical  way,  in  the  payment  of  our 
tithes.  Yes,  I  promise  you,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  that  if  you  will  do 
these  things  that  you  have  been  asked  to  do  at  this  conference — keep 
the  Word  of  Wisdom,  pay  your  tithes  and  offerings  now,  in  a  time  when 
it  will  be  hard  for  some  of  you  to  pay  your  tithing — I  promise  you  de- 
liverance, for  the  secret  of  succeeding  comes  from  doing  the  right  thing 
at  the  right  time  and  in  the  right  way,  and  God  will  show  you  the  way. 
He  will  never  desert  you  if  you  do  not  desert  him. 

God  help  us  to  be  true  to  him,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  wish  to  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  at  the  close  of  this  Con- 
ference that  I  am  very  happy,  as  I  said  at  the  beginning,  to  be  here,  and 
I  have  enjoyed  it  from  start  to  finish,  as  I  am  sure  all  of  you  have. 

I  am  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  the  words  of  congratulation  that  have 
come  to  me  from  every  person  that  has  spoken  to  me  regarding  the  choice 
of  Brother  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and  Brother  Samuel  O.  Bennion.  They 
have  my  unbounded  love  and  confidence,  and  have  earned  the  distinction 
that  has  come  to  them. 

May  God  bless  us  one  and  all.  May  his  blessings  attend  every  person 
holding  a  place  of  responsibility.  May  he  bless  our  Choir  members,  and 
all  who  have  taken  part  in  preaching,  praying,  and  singing  the  songs  of 
Zion,  is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

"The  Lord  now  victorious,"  a  sacred  anthem,  was  sung  by  the  Choir. 
Elder  Wayne  H.  Redd,  President  of  the  San  Juan  Stake,  pronounced 
the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing  of  the  Choir  and 
congregation  at  the  Conference  meetings.  Accompaniments  and  inter- 
ludes on  the  great  organ  were  played  by  Edward  P.  Kimball  and  Frank 
W.  Asper. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Authorities  Present    1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of    2 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J  124 

The  highest  percentage  of  growth,  125 — A  new  day,  125 — Our 
time  of  opportunity,  125 — An  ensign  to  the  world,  126 — The 
courage  of  our  fathers,  126 — Virility  and  strength  in  the  Gospel, 
127 — In  support  of  the  Constitution,  127 — A  better  day,  127. 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0   40 

Bluth,  Elder  John  V   33 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   26 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q   61 

Appreciation  of  loyalty  and  cooperation,  61 — Nation-wide  broad- 
casts of  Choir  and  Organ,  61 — Character  education  in  the  home, 
62 — Resistance  to  temptation,  62 — Church  relief  work  following 
earthquake,  62 — Divinity  of  Church  organization,  63 — Increase 
in  Church  activity  and  growth,  63 — Church  and  Priesthood 
growth,  64 — Priesthood  signifies  activitjr,  64 — Fulfilment  of 
responsibility,  64 — Expenditure  of  tithes,  65 — Tithing  and  tithe- 
payers,  65 — Efficiency  in  Church  building  construction,  66. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  101 

Pays  tribute  to  Senator  Smoot,  102 — Feels  responsibility,  102 — 
No  substitute  for  work,  103 — The  world's  problem,  103 — God 
will  speak,  103— Still  the  Good  Shepherd,  103— Gives  light,  104. 

Clawson,  President  Rudger    73 

Experiences  during  the  earthquake  in   Los  Angeles,  74 — The 

everlasting,   unchangeable   Gospel,  74 — The   seen   and  unseen 

worlds,  74 — Activity  in  the  spirit  world,  75 — The  Church  here  and 

the  Church  in  heaven,  76 — The  work  for  our  ancestors,  76 — Christ 

in  the  spirit  world,  77 — The  temple,  the  connecting  link,  77 —  :. 

The  last  sermon  of  President  Woodruff,  78. 

Financial  Statement    3 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting   2 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting  '.   22 

General  Authorities  of  trje  Church    2 

General  Authorities  Present    1 

General  Officers  of  the  Church   3 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers,  2. 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Grant,  President  Heber  J   6 

Grateful  for  evidences  of  friendship  and  good  will,  6 — Would 
solve  the  world's  problems,  6 — The  will  of  God,  7 — "Evils  and 
designs,"  7 — For  the  use  of  man,  8 — A  marvelous  promise,  8 — 
The  words  of  the  martyred  patriarch,  9 — The  words  of  Brigham 
Young,  9 — Benefits  proved,  10 — Gives  personal  testimony,  10 — 
Not  contaminated,  11— Prophecy  fulfilled,  11 — Further  advice  by 
President  Young,  11 — Doctors  give  evidence,  11 — The  words 
of  President  Taylor,  12 — President  Woodruff  quoted,  12 — 
Ridicule  recalled,  12 — From  President  Snow,  13- — President 
Smith  quoted,  13 — Poet  quoted,  14 — A  favorite  hymn,  14 — From 
Thomas  A.  Edison,  15 — Enormous  consumption  of  cigarets,  IS — ■ 
An  impressive  lesson,  15 — Effect  upon  students,  16 — A  victim  of 
cigarets,  16 — Judge  speaks,  17 — An  interesting  experiment,  17 — 
Testimony  of  an  inventor,  17 — Burbank's  declaration,  17 — A  new 


arithmetic,  17. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   80 

Mission  Presidents  to  speak,  80. 

Qrant,  President  Heber  J   88 

Tabernacle  Organ  and  Choir  broadcasts,  88. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  107 

Tribute  to  Joseph  W.  jMcMurrin,  107. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  120 

Grateful  for  composers  of  beautiful  music,  120. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  121 

Reads  from  John  A.  Widtsoe's  "In  Search  of  Truth,"  121— The 
way  to  Truth,  122. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  128 

Gratitude  for  Conference,  128. 

Hinckley,  Elder  Alonzo  A   85 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W   94 


Joseph  Smith's  first  vision,94 — A  messenger  sent  from  God,  94 — 
Quotes  Prophet  Joel,  95 — Receives  plates,  95 — Authority  re- 
stored, 95 — The  Church  organized,  96 — By  divine  authority,  96 — 
Heavenly  messengers  sent  to  earth,  96 — Accompanied  by  light, 
97 — Paul's  experience,  97 — An  angel  appears  unto  John,  98 — 
Divine  communications  foretold,  98 — In  a  flood  of  light,  99 — 
In  harmony  with  reason  and  truth,  99 — Truth  unchangeable,  99 — 
Founder  of  the  Government,  100 — Confusion  reigns,  100 — 
Deliverance  will  come,  100 — Concerning,  the  Church,  101. 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R  110 

Jones,  Elder  Miles  L   84 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   48 

If  wisdom  is  lacking,  48 — As,k  of  God,  48 — Who  has  forgotten 


INDEX 


131 


God?  49 — "Protect  us  by  thy  might,"  49 — Our  prayers  heard, 
SO — Partaking  worthily,  SO — Prayerful  thought  and  study,  50 — ■ 
Pray  vocally,  SO — Crying  for  forgiveness,  SI — Cheer  for  the  faith- 
ful, 51 — The  prayerful  spirit,  51 — Speakers  with  no  message,  51 — ■ 
An  unfailing  lesson,  52 — Prayerful  reflection,  52 — Repentant 
spirit,  52 — Actual  Latter-day  Saints,  52 — -Consumer  must  be  able 
to  purchase,  53 — Wealth  destroying  itself,  S3 — Coming  of  in- 
creased prosperity,  54 — Unprecedented  prosperity',  54 — Solution 
for  world's  ills,  54 — Religion  the  solution,  54. 

McKay,  Elder  David  0   89 

Placing  an  important  question,  90 — Changes  in  public  sentiment, 
90 — Results  of  ihonest  investigation,  91— Moral  and  economic 
benefits,  91 — The  fundamental  principle  in  individual  government, 
92 — A  step  backward,  92 — In  need  of  .more  spirituality,  93 — 
"They  shall  not  pass,"  93 — God's  word  given  authoritatively,  93. 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F  Ill 

Success  through  divine  leadership,  111 — An  analogous  situation, 
111 — Through  his  servants  the  prophets,  112 — The  remedy,  112 — 
Hope  for  the  future,  112 — Fulfilment  of  requirements  necessary, 
113 — -The   Lord's  plan,    113 — A   call   to   repentance,    113 — Law 


governs  the  universe,  114 — The  sin  of  selfishness,  114 — An  out- 
standing example,  114. 

Moyle,  Elder  James  H   86 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   43 


Pre-existence  not  understood,  43 — A  spiritual  creation,  44 — War 
in  heaven,  44 — Our  relationship  to  God,  45 — The  pre-existence  of 
Christ,  45 — First-born  and  Creator  of  heaven  and  earth,  45 — Love 
of  God  and  fellow  men,  46 — One  individual  from  beginning  to 
end,  46 — Before  the  world  was,  46 — The  Author  of  salvation, 
47 — The  plan  of  salvation,  47 — God  at  the  helm,  48, 

Richards,  Eller  Stephen  L   35 

A  magnificent  gift,  35 — Men  mistrust  men,  36 — Modern  business 
methods,  36 — Lack  of  corporate  honor,  37 — The  legitimate  func- 
tion of  business,  37 — Lack  of  political  honor,  37 — Demoralizing 
integrity  of  our  citizenship,  38 — Using  religion  for  ulterior 
purposes,  38 — Effect  of  unrighteous  exercise  of  spiritual  power, 
39 — The  standards  of  a  religious  man,  39 — Charged  with  an  im- 


portant responsibility,  40. 

Roberts,  Elder  Brigham  H.   115 

Romney,  Elder  George  S  105 

Rowan,  Elder  Charles  E.,  Jr   55 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting    43 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   67 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sloan,  Elder  William  R.  . 
Smith,  Elder  David  A.  . .  . 
Smith,  Elder  George  Albert 


82 
27 
67 


The  influence  of  the  adversary,  67 — Experiences  related  in  the  Old 
Testament,  67 — The  work  of  the  Savior,  68 — As  related  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  68 — In  this  dispensation,  68 — Houses  must  be 
set  in  order,  69 — Because  of  vanity  and  unbelief,  70 — Neglecting 
our  opportunities,  70 — God  will  not  be  mocked,  71 — Parents  must 
safeguard  their  children,  71 — Our  responsibility,  72 — Vice  and 
evil  must  be  restrained,  72 — Holding  aloft  the  banner  of  right- 
eousness, 73 — One  in  all  things,  73. 


A  wonderful  advantage,  22 — The  purpose  of  mortal  life,  22 — The 
Lord's  plan,  23 — Obedience  to  temporal  and  physical  laws 
required,  23 — Eternal  blessings  through  clean  living,  23 — Sons 
and  daughters  of  God,  24 — The  Lord's  desire  concerning  us,  25 — 
Duty  to  safeguard  the  youth,  25 — Stand  in  holy  places,  26. 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed    18 

The  world's  most  urgent  need,  18 — Salvation  for  all,  19 — A  divine 
message,  19 — The  personality  of  God,  19 — Not  one  in  person, 
20 — Destructive  agencies,  20 — Not  necessary  to  violate  laws  of 
God,  21 — In  accordance  with  one's  professed  faith,  21. 

Statistics  and  other  data  compiled  from  the  Annual  Reports  for 


Timeliness,  107 — Examples  of  timeliness,  108 — Counsel  in  season, 
108 — Foreknowledge  not  a  determining  cause,  109. 


Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding 


22 


the  year  1932   

Talmage,  Elder  James  E 


5 

107 


Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting  . 
Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting 

Welling,  Elder  Arthur   

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S  

Woodruff,  Elder  Elias  S  

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar  


89 
107 
80 
57 
32 
120 


THE  FALLING  AWAY 

By  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

This  new  work  is  a  ringing  challenge  to  Christendom  and  a  frank 
indictment  of  the  multifarious  creeds  that  are  an  outgrowth  of  the  dis- 
integrated Apostolic  Church.  It  shows  most  conclusively  and  brilliant- 
ly that  all  the  churches  had  departed  from  the  true  pattern  of  Christ 
and  lost  the  authority  completely,  long  before  the  New  Dispensation 
was  ushered  in  through  the  instrumentality  of  Joseph  Smith. 

Yet  the  motive  of  the  author  is  not  to  tear  down,  but  rather  to 
build  up;  had  there  been  no  "falling  away,"  the  claim  of  the  prophet 
of  the  New  Dispensation  would  have  been  an  imposture;  if  there  was  a 
"falling  away,"  however,  his  claim  is  credible.  It  was  to  establish  this 
fact  sharply  and  conclusively  that  these  radio  addresses  were  given 
All  who  heard  Elder  Roberts  or  who  will  read  these  published  dis- 
courses, will  agree  that  he  has  accomplished  the  end  in  a  scholarly  and 
convincing  manner. 

Though  most  of  the  discourses  deal  with  eras  of  apostasy  and 
centuries  of  discord,  the  ultimate  message  of  the  book  is  one  of  hope 
and  salvation  for  the  world.  The  three  discourses  on  the  Restoration 
read  like  the  happy  outcome  of  an  otherwise  tragic  story.  You  feel  at 
the  end  that  the  author  has  performed  a  necessary  but  melancholy 
task,  only  that  he  might  invest  with  true  meaning  the  unique  claim  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  Appendix  of  the  new  work  is  an  answer  to  Catholic  charges 
that  the  author  had  been  unfair  in  his  use  of  evidence  and  presentation 
of  historic  facts.  His  reply  is  given  with  enough  zestful  detail  to 
leave  the  reader  without  a  single  doubt. 

Price  $1.50 


Sunday  Night  Talks  by  Radio 

By  DR.  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

In  answer  to  an  insistent  demand  the  1930  series  of  L.  D.  S.  Radio 
Addresses  given  by  Dr.  James  E.  Talmage  has  now  been  issued  in 
regular  book  form  under  the  title  of  "Sunday  Night  Talks  By  Radio." 
It  is  printed  on  a  good  grade  of  book  paper  from  type  especially  set 
for  this  edition,  and  durably  bound  in  beautiful  marblex  cloth. 

This  book  will  make  a  beautiful  as  well  as  practical  and  useful  ad- 
dition to  the  library  of  any  member  of  the  Church.  It  will  be  especially 
valuable  to  missionaries  or  prospective  missionaries. 

Price  $1.50  Postpaid 

Send  your  order  now  to  the 

Deseret  Book  Company 

"The  Home  of  Good  Books" 
44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


The  Life  Story 

OF 

Brigham  Young 

By  SUSA  YOUNG  GATES  AND  LEAH  D.  WIDTSOE 
WITH  A  FOREWORD  BY  HONORABLE  REED  SMOOT 

"This  book  presents  the  life  story  Sof  a  New  England  cabinet- 
maker, who,  well  into  his  thirties,  entered  upon  a  career  that  made 
him  an  empire-builder  of  the  West;  the  founder  tof  a  hundred  cities; 
the  governor  of  one  of  the  territories  of  the  United  States;  and  one 
of  the  outstanding  figures  of  the  nineteenth  century." 

Thus  does  Senator  Smoot  begin  his  enthusiastic  foreword  to  this 
notable  biography. 

A  Special  Edition.  Beautifully  and  Substantially  Bound  in  Cloth. 

Price  $2.50 


Do  Men  Believe  What  Their 
Church  Prescribes? 

By  RULON  S.  HOWELLS 

A  comprehensive  yet  concise  study  of  leading  Christian  religions 
and  their  fundamental  subjects,  carefully  and  painstakingly  compiled 
as  a  guide  for  all  thinking  Christians. 

The  book  contains  164  pages  and  a  large  folded  chart.  The  chart 
contains  the  views  of  ten  of  the  outstanding  religious  denominations 
on  twenty-three  of  the  outstanding  fundamentals  of  the  Christian 
Doctrines. 

The  material  for  this  chart  was  furnished  by  officers  and  min- 
isters of  the  various  churches  involved,  and  is  therefore  authoritative 
in  all  of  its  statements. 

Price  $1.50 

Published  and  Distributed  by  the 

Deseret  Book  Company 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


