April 
1925 


NINETY-FIFTH 
ANNUAL 

CONFERENCE 

Of  the  Chnrch  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latterday  Saints 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly  Hall 
Salt  Lake  Gity,  Utah 

April  4,  5  and  6 
1925 

With  a  Full  Report  of  All 
the  ^Discourses 


w 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


J 


aiiiiiiimiEJimiiiiminmiimiiiiEimimmiiE]  iiiiiioiinii  caiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiitiiiiincai^ 

Can  you  answer  all  of  the  questions  that  are  put  to  you  | 

|                               about  the  Church?  | 

1              THE  OFFICIAL  j 

|  History  of  the  Church  j 

□  Will  answer  many  of  these  questions  for  you.  « 

I       IN  SIX  LARGE  VOLUMES  1 

_  m 

=       Compiled  by  the  Church  Historians  and  published  by  = 

=                                     the  Church.  § 

=                          Completing  the  First  Period.  § 

|           "The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with  = 

=       introduction  and  notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts.  = 

Every  Association,  Sunday   School,  Quorum  and 

E       Private  Library  should  have  a  set.  EE 

□  Cloth — Embossed,  per  vol  $2.50  Postpaid  H 

|          Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  vol        3.50       44  | 

|          Full  Morocco— Full  Gilt  Edge,  vol.  6.00       44  1 

=  The  above  work  is  suggested  as  reference  in  con- 

|       nection  with  the  study  of  Church  History  in  all  of 

5       the  activities  of  the  Church.  3 

|            SEND  FOR  OUR  NEW  CATALOG  FREE  | 

J   Deseret  Book  Company  j 

44  East  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

1                                P.  0.  Box  1793  1 

^lcaiiiiiiiriiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiinicaiiiiiiiiifliiEaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiBiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiiifiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiuM 


Ninety-Fifth  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


FIRST  DAY 

The  95th  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
Saturday,  April  4,  1925. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  announced  the  opening  of 
the  Conference  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.  He  was  sorry  to  state  that 
President  Chas.  W.  Penrose  had  been  critically  ill  during  the  past  six 
months  and  hence  could  not  be  present  with  us  in  this  conference, 
which  we  all  regret. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency:    Heber  J.  Grant,  and  Anthony  W.  Ivins. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Tzvclvc :  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot, 
George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David  O. 
McKay,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,*  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R. 
Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  John  A.  Widtsoe. 

Presiding  Patriarch  :    Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  B.  H.  Roberts,  J.  Golden 
Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W."  McMurrin,  Charles  H.  Hart,f 
Rey  L.  Pratt. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Charles  W.  Nibley,  David  A.  Smith, 
John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants,  Andrew  Jenson,  B.  H.  Roberts,  A.  William 
Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 

Presidents  of  stakes  were  well  represented  from  the  ninety-four 
stakes  of  Zion,  with  their  counselors,  patriarchs,  bishops  of  wards  and 
their  counselors,  and  numerous  other  prominent  officers  representing 
the  quorums  of  the  Priesthood,  also  general,  stake,  and  ward  officers 
of  the  auxiliary  organizations  of  the  Church. 

Mission  Presidents  as  follows  were  in  attendance:  B.  H.  Roberta.. 
Eastern  States ;  John  H.  Taylor,  Northern  States ;  Samuel  O.  Bennion, 


♦James  E.  Talmage  absent  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 
•j-Levi  Edgar  Young,  absent  at  Columbia  University. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Central  States;  Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States;  John  M.  Knight, 
Western  States;  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  California;  Brigham  S.  Young, 
Northwestern  States ;  Rey  L.  Pratt.  Mexico ;  Joseph  Quinney,  Jr., 
Canada;  Eugene  J.  Neff,  Hawaiian,  and  Benjamin  Goddard,  Bureau 
of  Information,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City. 

All  the  seats  in  the  large  Tabernacle  were  occupied,  both  in  the 
gallery  and  in  the  main  hall  and  on  the  choir  stand.  Hundreds  were 
standing  in  the  side  aisles,  both  on  the  main  floor  and  in  the  gallery. 

President  Grant  announced  that  the  choir  and  congregation  would 
sing,  "O  ye  mountains  high,"  out  of  respect  to  President  Charles  W. 
Penrose.  President  Grant  read  the  poem  in  full,  and  stated  that  by 
permission  of  President  Penrose  the  words  in  the  song,  "on  the  'necks' 
of  thy  foes  thou  shalt  tread,"  were  changed,  and  would  be  sung, 
"on  the  'schemes'  of  thy  foes  thou  shalt  tread." 

After  the  choir  and  congregation  had  sung  the  hymn  with  spirit 
and  effect,  the  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Samuel  F.  Smith, 
president  of  the  Snowflake  stake  of  Zion. 

A  solo  entitled,  "Hosanna"  was  sung  by  Melvin  Peterson. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  very  gratifying,  indeed,  to  see  this  immense  congregation 
here  this  morning,  bespeaking  the  interest  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in 
the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  customary  at  the  opening 
session  of  our  conference  to  give  some  statistics  and  to  refer  to  the 
condition  of  the  Church  at  home  and  abroad.  I  am  very  pleased  to 
be  able  to  announce  that  the  work  of  the  Lord  is  growing  all  over 
/the  world;  and  that  there  is  never  a  month  or  a  year  but  what  the 
Church  is  stronger,  spiritually  and  financially,  than  it  was  the  month 
or  the  year  previous. 

FINANCIAL  STATEMENT 

The  following  financial  statement  I  am  sure  will  be  of  interest  to  the  people 
here  assembled : 

From  the  tithes  of  the  Church  there  has  been  expended  for  stake  and  ward 
purposes,  $1,352,663.43. 

For  education,  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  Church  schools,  $727,808.93. 

For  construction,  maintenance  and  operation  of  temples,  $442,018.46. 

For  the  care  of  the  worthy  poor  and  other  charitable  purposes,  including 
hospital  treatment,  $175,520.77. 

For  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  all  the  missions,  and  for  the  erection 
of  places  of  worship  and  other  buildings  in  the  missions,  $700,664.09. 

This  makes  a  total  of  $3,398,675.68,  taken  from  the  tithes  for  the  maintenance 
and  operation  of  the  stakes  and  wards,  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of 
Church  schools  and  temples,  for  charities,  and  for  mission  activities. 

In  addition  to  charities  paid  out  of  the  tithes  as  before  named,  there  have 
also  been  disbursed  the  fast  offerings  and  Relief  Society  and  other  charities, 
amounting  to  $489,406.61,  which  amount  added  to  the  $175,520.77  paid  from  the 
tithes,  makes  a  total  of  Church  charities,  $664,927.38. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J  GRANT 


3 


CHURCH   GROWTH   FOR  THE  YEAR  1924 

Children  blessed  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  Church  in  stakes  and 
missions,  19,955. 

Children  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions,  14,047. 

Converts  baptized  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  stakes  and  missions, 
7,556. 

There  are  now  94  stakes  of  Zion,  907  wards,  70  independent  branches  con- 
nected with  the  stakes,  24  missions  and  654  branches  in  the  missions. 

SOCIAL  STATISTICS 

Birth  rate,  33  per  thousand. 
Marriage  rate,  13  per  thousand. 
Death  rate,  7.3  per  thousand. 

There  are  160,634  persons  in  the  Church  who  are  married;  of 
this  number  256  persons  were  divorced  in  the  year  1924. 
Families  owning  their  own  homes,  72  per  cent. 

PRESIDENT   C.    W.   PENROSE   SERIOUSLY  ILL 

As  announced  in  the  opening,  President  Charles  W.  Penrose  is  in 
a  precarious  condition.  He  sends  his  love  to  all  the  brethren,  and 
desires  them  to  know  that  they  have  his  confidence  in  all  that  they 
may  do ;  and  his  message  to  the  Saints  is  to  obey  the  law.  wherever 
they  reside. 

Elder  Seymour  B.  Young,  President  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy,  has  passed  away  since  our  last  conference,  having  been  a 
faithful  member  of  the  Council  for  something  over  forty  years. 

A   MISSION   HOME  IN   SALT  LAKE  CITY 

A  home  on  State  street  has  been  dedicated  for  the  entertainment 
of  missionaries,  and  for  the  purpose  of  giving  them  instructions  for 
a  week  or  more,  prior  to  their  departure  upon  their  missions ;  and 
also  to  take  care  of  any  returning  missionaries  who  may  be  stopping 
briefly  in  this  city  on  their  way  home,  after  having  filled  an  honorable 
mission.  We  are  pleased  to  announce  that  at  the  dedication  there  was 
a  rich  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  we  feel  assured  in 
our  hearts,  judging  from  the  inspiration  of  the  occasion,  that  it  will 
be  a  source  of  great  benefit  to  our  young  men  and  young  women 
who  are  called  to  go  out  into  the  mission  field. 

CHANGES  IN  STAKES 

There  have  been  some  changes  in  a  number  of  the  stakes,  and  the  new  men 
chosen  to  preside  are  as  follows : 

Curlew  stake,  Colen  H.  Sweeten. 
Yellowstone  stake,  John  M.  White. 
Nebo  stake,  Lee  R.  Taylor. 
San  Luis  stake,  James  P.  Jensen. 
Young  stake,  Elmer  F.  Taylor. 

New  wards  have  been  organized  since  our  last  meeting  as  follows : 
Hillcrest  ward,  Grant  stake. 
Inglewood  ward,  Los  Angeles  stake. 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


LaGrand  Second  ward,  Nebo  stake. 

Payson  Fourth  ward,  Nebo  stake. 

Santaquin  Second  ward,  Nebo  stake. 

Genola  ward,  Nebo  stake. 

Virginia  City  ward,  Los  Angeles  stake. 

Home  Gardens  ward,  Los  Angeles  stake. 

Ballard  ward  Lost  River  stake. 

New  stakes  organized,  since  our  last  conference : 

Kolob  stake,  President  George  Ray  Murdock. 

Palmyra  stake,  President  Henry  A.  Gardner. 

In  addition  to  the  death  of  President  Seymour  B.  Young  we  announce  the 
death,  since  our  last  meeting,  of  David  H.  Cannon,  president  of  the  St.  George 
temple,  for  many  years ;  Bishop  James  A.  Wright,  of  Bingham  ward,  Jordan 
stake,  and  Bishop  Armond  T.  Rose,  of  North  Farmington  ward,  South  Davis 
stake. 


Perhaps  no  one  thing  in  connection  with  the  Church  is  as  dear 
to  the  hearts  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  our  missionary  labor.  Count- 
ing the  time,  the  salaries  that  might  be  earned  by  those  who  are  in 
the  mission  field,  and  the  expense  of  maintaining  them  there,  the 
Latter-day  Saints  are  expending  today  something  over  $2,000,000  a 
year  for  the  spread  of  the  gospel  in  the  world. 

We  know  that  the  first  and  most  important  duty  for  us  is  to  love 
the  Lord  our  God  with  all  our  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength ;  and 
second  to  that  is  love  for  our  fellowmen.  No  people  in  all  the  world  in 
proportion  to  their  numbers,  are  giving  such  evidence  of  a  love  for  their 
fellowmen,  and  a  desire  for  their  welfare,  as  are  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
Our  missionary  work  proclaims  to  all  the  world  our  willingness  to 
make  financial  sacrifice  and  to  labor  with  no  hope  of  earthly  reward, 
for  the  salvation  of  the  souls  of  the  children  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 
I  am  sure  that  a  general  statement  of  the  missions  will  be  of  interest 
to  this  congregation. 

We  have  in  the  California  mission,  presided  over  most  ably  by 
President  Joseph  W  McMurrin,  125  missionaries.  There  are  8,625 
people  in  that  mission.  We  own  Church  property  in  that  mission 
valued  at  $289,114.04. 


MISSIONARY  WORK 


President 
A  merican  Missions : 


Missionaries  Members 


Church 
Property 


California,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin 
Canadian  Joseph  Quinney,  Jr.... 

Central,  Samuel  O.  Bennion  ' 

Eastern,  Brigham  H.  Roberts... 

Mexican,  Rev  L.  Pratt  

Northern,  John  H.  Taylor  

Northwestern,  Brigham  S.  Young 

Southern,  Charles  A.  Callis  

Western,  John  M.  Knight  


125  8,625 

71  716 

158  S.712 

143  4,689 

76  2,683 

127  5.141 

99  5,599 

197  23.047 

96  4,977 


$289,114.04 
23,021.47 
110,410.26 
232,818.55 
15,184.12 
88,694.57 
82,535.76 
64,066.14 
102,385.44 


Total 


1,092 


64,189  $1,008,230.35 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J  GRANT 


5 


Each  and  all  of  the  men  presiding  over  these  missions  are  giving 
the  best  in  their  power  for  the  advancement  of  their  missions.  They 
are  men  of  God,  devoted  to  the  welfare  of  their  respective  missions. 
And  this  can  be  said  also  of  all  the  other  missions,  the  statistics  of 
which  I  shall  now  read,  giving  the  name  of  the  mission,  the  president, 
the  missionaries,  the  membership  and  the  Church  property. 

European  Missions : 

Armenian,  Joseph  W.  Booth   2  164  450.00 

British,  James  E.  Talmage   151         5,670  78,518.17 

(Here  let  me  mention  the  splendid  work  Elder  James  E.  Tal- 
mage is  doing  presiding  over  the  European  mission.  The  fact  that  he 
is  a  member  of  the  Royal  Society  of  Edinburgh  gives  him  a  standing 
in  Europe  that  perhaps  none  of  the  rest  of  us  could  possibly  have. 
He  is  receiving  excellent  consideration  from  newspapers  there,  and  is 
working  early  and  late,  as  he  has  done  all  his  life.  He  is  one  of  the 
most  industrious,  energetic  men  I  have  ever  known,  and  is  making 
a  very  splendid  successor  to<  President  David  O.  McKay,  who  did  such  a 
good  work  as  the  president  of  the  European  mission.  ) 


24 

1,621 

55,284.95 

French,  Russell  H.  Blood,  

30 

468 

1,242.03 

Netherlands,  Charles  S.  Hvde  

61 

3,189 

57,229.02 

Norwegian,  A.  Richard  Peterson  

17 

1,621 

52,774.43 

South  African,  J.  Wyley  Sessions  

18 

435 

17,823.30 

Swedish,  Hugo  D.  E.  Peterson  

30 

2,051 

53,350.17 

226 

11,102 

51,497.79 

Total  

559 

26,371 

$368,169.86 

Island  Missions: 

40 

1.115 

40,911.18 

Hawaiian,  Eugene  J.  Neff  

61 

13,083 

195,830.00 

Japan  [Discontinued]  

164 

New  Zealand,  Angus  T.  Wright  

45 

6,184 

150,575.66 

Samoan,  Ernest  L.  Butler  

44 

3,462 

92,789.24 

Tahitian,  Ole  B.  Peterson  

11 

1,721 

13,403.70 

Tongan,  Mark  V.  Coombs  

19 

1,051 

24,853.52 

Tctal   

220 

26,780 

$518,363.30 

General : 

Smith  Mem.  Farm,  Angus  J.  Cannon  

20,000.00 

Palmyra  Farm,  Willard  Bean  

20,000.00 

40,000.00 

Total  U 

1,871 

117,340 

$1,974,763.51 

The  grand  total  of  our  missionaries  is  1,871 ;  of  members  in  the 
missions,  117,340;  the  grand  total  of  Church  property  in  these  mis- 
sions is  $1,934,763.51,  lacking  but  a  very  few  dollars  of  $2,000,000 
of  money  invested  in  Church  property  in  the  missions  throughout  the 
world.  (      i      [  i  j      ij   1 1| 

Certainly  when  we  consider  the  limited  means  of  the  people  who 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


embrace  the  gospel  all  over  the  world — for  the  gospel  seems  to  reach 
the  poor — we  have  great  cause  to  rejoice  in  the  financial  showing  in 
our  missions,  as  well  as  the  wonderful  showing  financially  here  at 
home. 

PRESIDENT  GRANT'S  TOUR  OF  THE  MISSIONS 

Since  I  last  had  the  privilege  of  meeting  with  you  in  general 
conference,  I  have  visited  the  missionaries  in  the  east,  and  given  them 
instructions — in  Indianapolis,  Indiana ;  Minneapolis  and  St.  Paul,  Min- 
nesota; Detroit,  Michigan,  and  Milwaukee,  Wisconsin;  also  in  Chicago, 
and  held  public  meetings  in  all  of  these  places  except  Chicago. 

At  Minneapolis  we  had  the  pleasure  of  dedicating  a  very  splendid 
meetinghouse  and  recreation  hall  erected  there,  and  of  meeting  with 
a  most  excellent  class  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  have  chapels  also  at 
St.  Paul  and  Minneapolis.  The  Saints  at  Detroit  and  at  Indianapolis 
are  gathering  funds  for  the  purpose  of  assisting  in  erecting  chapels  in 
those  places. 

On  Nov.  27,  I  left  Salt  Lake  City  for  Independence  to  attend 
the  funeral  of  my  cousin  and  the  cousin  of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
Thalia  Grant  Smith.  The  services  were  well  attended.  After  that  I 
had  the  privilege  of  holding  meetings  in  Independence,  Kansas  City, 
and  St.  Louis;  also  at  Fort  Worth,  San  Antonio  and  Kelsey,  Texas, 
and  in  Wichita,  Kansas,  and  instructing  the  missionaries  in  all  of  these 
places,  as  well  as  holding  public  meetings,  which  were  well  attended. 
In  a  number  of  places  we  have  excellent  meetinghouses  to  meet  in.  In 
others  we  have  rented  halls. 

During  this  trip  I  had  the  privilege  of  speaking  before  the  Cham- 
ber of  Commerce  in  Kansas  City,  Missouri.  The  sectetary  announced 
his  regret  that  all  of  the  six  thousand  members  of  that  great  body 
had  not  had  the  privilege  of  listening  to  my  twenty  minute  talk.  I 
said  in  reply :  "I  can  remedy  that  very  easily.  I  will  have  six  thousand 
copies  of  this  speech  delivered  at  your  office  so  that  when  you  send  out 
your  next  monthly  statements  you  can  enclose  a  copy." 

He  expressed  his  pleasure  in  doing  it.  They  were  printed,  and 
delivered,  and  I  have  received  many  letters  from  men  who  have  read 
the  speech,  expressing  their  pleasure  in  having  heard  or  read  what 
I  had  to  say  regarding  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  In  that 
short  address,  speaking  very  rapidly  (much  more  rapidly  than  I  am 
doing  now),  I  quoted  all  the  Articles  of  our  Faith  and  made  com- 
ments upon  them.  It  took  four  columns  of  the  Christmas  News  to 
print  that  twenty  and  one-half  minutes  speech.  I  rejoice  that  there 
were  at  least  a  score  of  influential  men  who  shook  hands  with  me  and 
expressed  their  pleasure  in  having  heard  the  plain  statement  of  the  faith 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  as  embodied  in  our  Articles  of  Faith. 

When  I  stop  to  reflect  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  were  expelled 
from  the  state  of  Missouri  under  the  exterminating  order  of  the  gov- 
ernor of  that  state,  then  to  think  that  representative  men  of  one  of 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J  GRANT 


7 


the  largest  business  organizations  in  Kansas  City — one  of  the  most 
progressive  cities  in  the  Union — would  listen  with  attention  and  after- 
wards congratulate  the  President  of  the  Church  upon  a  speech  in  which 
he  quoted  the  Articles  of  Faith,  and  some  of  them  expressed  regret 
that  I  did  not  have  an  hour  instead  of  twenty  minutes,  and  invited 
me  to  come  back  again,  and  take  the  hour,  certainly  we  have  to  acknowl- 
edge that  God  is  moving  in  a  mysterious  way  his  wonders  to  perform, 
and  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  becoming  known  for  what  they 
really  are — a  God-fearing,  upright  people,  who  are  loyal  to  God  and 
to  their  country. 

The  newspapers  in  all  these  places  gave  me  better  notices  and 
published  fairer  reports  of  the  speeches  I  made  than  I  have  ever  had 
before  on  any  trip  I  have  taken. 

On  January  9,  I  left  Salt  Lake  City  for  Los  Angeles,  for  a  brief 
visit,  feeling  very  much  the  need  of  a  little  rest.  I  had  the  pleasure, 
on  that  short  trip  of  only  ten  days,  of  speaking  in  the  Adams  ward 
and  the  Matthews  ward  in  Los  Angeles  stake. 

Feb.  3,  I  left  Salt  Lake  City  for  a  visit  to  the  California,  the  Cen- 
tral States,  and  the  Southern  States  missions,  first  treading  the  sands 
of  the  Pacific,  and  a  few  days  later  the  sands  of  the  Atlantic.  Meet- 
ings were  held  upon  that  trip,  in  Ocean  Park,  Oakland  and  San  Fran- 
cisco; also  in  New  Orleans,  in  Jacksonville,  Florida,  and  in  Atlanta, 
Georgia. 

In  all  of  these  places  there  was  a  splendid  attendance,  and  again 
the  newspapers  gave  very  fair  notices  of  the  meetings  and  of  what 
was  said.  In  no  case  was  there  any  attempt  to  ridicule  or  belittle  or  to 
change  the  remarks  that  I  had  made  in  public,  where  reports  were 
taken,  or  where  interviews  were  given.  Some  slight  mistakes  were 
made,  but  they  were  all  unintentional  mistakes. 

I  have  never  enjoyed  greater  liberty  in  proclaiming  the  gospel 
than  I  did  in  some  of  the  meetings  on  this  last  trip,  lasting  something 
over  five  weeks,  visiting  the  California,  the  Central  States  and  the 
Southern  States  missions. 

I  believe  this  fully  covers  the  activities  of  the  Church  that  would 
be  of  interest  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  of  my  own  labors  since 
we  were  together  six  months  ago. 

...  ABSOLUTE  FAITH  IN  JESUS  CHRIST 

I  rejoice  beyond  the  power  with  which  God  has  endowed  me  to 
express  my  feelings,  in  the  knowledge  I  possess  regarding  the  divinity  of 
this  great  Latter-day  work  in  which  we,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  are  .en- 
gaged ;  and  as  I  travel  I  find  a  lack  of  belief  in  God,  and  in  the  divinity 
of  Jesus  Christ,  even  among  the  ministers  of  the  gospel,  I  rejoice  in 
the  fact  that  every  man  and  woman  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  has  an  absolute  faith  in  God,  in  his  individuality, 
and  an  absolute  faith  that  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world ;  that  he  came  to  the  earth  with  a  divinely  appointed  mission 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


•to  die  for  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  that  he  is  in  very  deed  the  head 
of  the  Church  of  Christ. 

Upon  the  trip  last  mentioned,  I  cut  from  a  newspaper  a  clipping 
which  I  had  intended  to  read  at  this  conference,  but  I  have  misplaced  it. 
It  was  a  recommendation  by  an  English  lord  that  people  discard  the 
"absurdity"  of  Jesus  Christ  as  a  God  on  earth  and  a  Redeemer  of  the 
world,  and  that  they  accept  the  Mohammedan  philosophy;  suggesting 
that  they  could  believe  in  all  of  the  ethical  teachings  of  the  religion  of 
Christ  and  Mohammed,  but  that  they  should  get  away  from  the 
absurdities  of  Christianity,  and  settle  the  various  disputes  and  troubles 
that  they  were  having  in  the  Christian  religion. 

Wherever  I  read  that  statement — and  I  read  it  in  a  number  of 
places — I  took  the  trouble  to  state  to  the  people  in  the  various  places 
where  I  preached,  the  position  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  to  the  gospel 
in  which  we  believe.  I  quoted  the  vision  of  Joseph  Smith  and  Sidney 
Rigdon,  as  follows : 

"And  this  is  the  gospel,  the  glad  tidings,  which  the  voice  out  of  the  heavens 
bore  record  unto  us — 

"That  he  came  unto  the  world,  even  Jesus,  to  be  crucified  for  the  world, 
and  to  bear  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  to  sanctify  the  world,  and  to  cleanse  it 
from  all  unrighteousness ; 

"That  through  him  all  might  be  saved  whom  the  Father  had,  put  into  his 
power  and  made  by  him ; 

"Who  glorifies  the  Father,  and  saves  all  the  works  of  his  hands,  except  those 
sons  of  perdition  who  deny  the  Son  after  the  Father  has  revealed  him." 

I  announced  to  the  people  that  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  no 
man  or  woman  would  be  admitted  into  the  Church,  or  be  permitted  to 
retain  fellowship  who  is  not  willing  to  accept  this  statement  absolutely 
without  mental  reservation.    I  also  read  to  them : 

V 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him,  this 
is  the  testimony ,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him :    That  he  lives ! 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God ;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father — 

"That  by  him  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were  created, 
and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto  God." 

I  announced  in  those  meetings,  in  some  of  which  the  majority  of 
the  audience  were  non-members  of  the  Church,  that  every  Latter-day 
Saint  must  subscribe  to  the  doctrine  that  God  himself  visited  the  boy 
Joseph  Smith,  and  that  God  himself  introduced  Jesus  Christ  to  the 
boy  as  his  well-beloved  Son.  I  announced  to  these  audiences  that 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints  there  is  no  evidence  of  "modernism" 
So-called,  and  that  no  man  or  woman  will  be  fellowshiped  in  this 
Church  who  denies  the  individuality,  the  personality  of  God,  or  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  in  very  deed  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world,  1 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J  GRANT 


9 


THE   WORD  OF  WISDOM 

I  regret  to  say  that  there  is  becoming  evident  among  the  Saints,  a 
lack  of  interest  and  a  looseness  in  observing  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  I 
regret  to  have  heard  that  there  are  men  occupying  positions  as  bishops' 
counselors,  and  as  members  of  high  councils,  who  do  not  observe  this 
law;  that  certain  bishops'  counselors  and  members  of  high  councils  are 
not  only  drinking  tea  and  coffee,  but  some  of  them  are  using  tobacco. 
No  man  who  uses  tobacco  is  worthy  to  stand  as  high  councilor  in  this 
Church.  He  owes  it  to  himself  to  clean  himself  up  or  step  aside  and 
allow  a  man  with  more  faith,  with  more  manhood,  with  more  integrity 
to  God  and  his  laws,  to  take  the  position  that  he  occupies. 

President  Wilford  Woodruff  from  this  stand,  many  years  ago, 
called  upon  every  man  holding  the  Priesthood  and  occupying  any  of- 
fice in  this  Church,  to  obey  the  Word  of  Wisdom  or  to  resign  and 
step  aside.  I  reiterate  that  men  who  do  not  obey  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
are  not  worthy  to  stand  as  examples  before  the  people,  to  be  invited 
into  private  priesthood  meetings  and  to  discuss  matters  for  the  welfare 
of  the  Church  of  God.  Their  disobedience  shows  a  lack  of  faith  in  the 
work  of  God.  I  shall  not  take  your  time  to  read  all  of  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  but  I  shall  take  time  to  read  the  words  of  the  living  God  that 
must  be  acknowledged  by  every  Latter-day  Saint  to  be  the  word  of 
God,  or  he  or  she  is  not  entitled  to  be  a  member  of  this  Church. 
After  telling  us  what  is  good  for  us,  the  Lord  makes  a  promise  that 
is  one  of  the  most  marvelous,  one  of  the  most  uplifting  and  inspiring 
promises  that  could  possibly  be  made  to  mortal  man.    He  says : 

THE  PROMISE 

"And  all  Saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking  in 
obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel  and  marrow  to 
their  bones ; 

"And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures ; 

"And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint. 
"And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying  angel  shall 
pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them." 

AN  ILLUSTRATION  OF  THE  DESTROYER  REBUKED 

I  shall  never  forget  the  occasion  when  a  friend  appealed  to  me, 
upon  learning  that  the  doctor  had  announced  that  his  daughter,  strick- 
en with  diphtheria,  would  die  before  morning.  He  asked  me  to  pray 
for  that  daughter,  and  after  leaving  his  office  I  prayed  with  all  the 
earnestness  of  my  soul  that  God  would  heal  that  girl.  While  praying, 
the  inspiration  came  to  me :  "The  power  of  the  living  God  is  here 
on  the  earth.  The  Priesthood  is  here.  Hurry!  Hurry!  Get  John 
Henry  Smith ;  go  and  rebuke  the  power  of  the  destroyer,  and  the  girl 
shall  live." 

The  doctor  waiting  upon  that  girl,  said  she  could  not  live  till 
morning ;  but  when  morning  came  he  explained  that  he  could  not  com- 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


prehend  it,  and  that  he  believed  the  girl  was  going  to  get  well.  He 
could  not  refrain  from  expressing  his  surprise  at  the  change  in  the 
girl's  condition  over  night.  The  power  of  the  living  God  rebuked  the 
destroyer. 

"And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying 
angel  shall  pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them. 

The  Lord  has  told  us  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith : 

"If  a  person  gains  more  knowledge  and  intelligence  in  this  life, 
through  his  diligence  and  obedience  than  another,  he  will  have  so  much 
the  advantage  in  the  world  to  come." 

No  man  who  breaks  the  Word  of  Wisdom  can  gain  the  same 
amount  of  knowledge  and  intelligence  in  this  world  as  the  man  who 
obeys  that  law.  I  don't  care  who  he  is  or  where  he  comes  from,  his 
mind  will  not  be  as  clear,  and  he  cannot  advance  as  far  and  as  rapidly 
and  retain  his  power  as  much  as  he  would  if  he  obeyed  the  Word  of 
Wisdom. 

TITHES   AND   REAL  PROSPERITY 

The  law  of  financial  prosperity  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  under 
covenant  with  God,  is  to  be  an  honest  tithepayer,  and  not  to  rob  the 
Lord  in  tithes  and  offerings.  Prosperity  comes  to  those  who  observe 
the  law  of  tithing ;  and  when  I  say  prosperity  I  am  not  thinking  of  it 
in  terms  of  dollars  and  cents  alone,  although  as  a  rule  the  Latter-day 
Saints  who  are  the  best  tithepayers  are  the  most  vrosPerous  men, 
financially ;  but  what  I  count  as  real  prosperity,  as  the  one  thing  of  all 
others  that  is  of  great  value  to  every  man  and  woman  living,  is  the 
growth  in  a  knowledge  of  God,  and  in  a  testimony,  and  in  the  power  to 
live  the  gospel  and  to  inspire  our  families  to  do  the  same.  That  is 
prosperity  of  the  truest  kind.  I  would  rather  die  in  poverty  knowing 
that  my  family  could  testify  that,  to  the  best  of  the  ability  with  which 
God  had  endowed  me,  I  had  observed  his  laws  and  kept  his  command- 
ments, and  by  my  example,  had  proclaimed  the  gospel,  than  to  have 
all  the  wealth  of  the  world. 

OUR  RELIGION  THE  TRUTH 

Either  we  have  the  truth,  and  this  gospel  called  "Mormonism,"  is 
in  very  deed  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation,  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation,  through  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  by  following  its  teach- 
ings the  greatest  of  all  the  gifts  of  God  to  man,  namely,  life  eternal,  will 
be  ours,  or  it  is  not  the  truth. 

God  has  given  to  men  and  women  all  over  the  wide  world,  seek- 
ing for  the  light  of  his  spirit,  in  answer  to  humble  prayers,  a  testimony 
and  a  knowledge  that  this  gospel  is  exactly  what  it  purports  to  be — 
that  it  is  the  truth,  that  it  will  stand  forever,  and  that  those  who  live 
it  shall  be  exalted  eternally  in  the  presence  of  our  heavenly  Father, 
and  his  Son,  our  Redeemer. 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  ■  McKAY 


11 


CLOSING  TESTIMONY 

May  God  help  each  and  every  one  of  us  who  have  a  knowledge 
of  the  divinity  of  this  work  to  live  so  that  other  men,  seeing  our  good 
deeds,  may  glorify  God  and  be  led  to  investigate  the  plan  of  life  and 
salvation.  I  bear  witness  to  you  here  today,  that  I  know  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet  of  the 
true  and  living  God,  that  he  was  a  martyr,  that  he  gave  his  life  for 
this  cause,  and  that  his  blood  bears  witness  to  the  integrity,  the  honesty 
and  inspiration  of  his  mission  as  a  prophet  of  the  living  God,  because 
he  was  true  even  unto  death.  May  God  help  us  one  and  all  to  live 
the  truth,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

A  soprano  solo,  "The  mighty  God  hath  spoken",  was  sung  by 
Mrs.  Laurinda  P.  Brewerton. 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

I  have  had  a  few  surprises  in  my  life,  but  I  think  none  greater 
than  this.  However,  it  is  a  very  agreeable  surprise.  I  am  thankful 
for  the  privilege  of  meeting  this  vast  audience  and  partaking  of  the 
spirit  of  this  inspirational  gathering.  It  is  a  joy  to  look  once  again 
into  the  faces  of  close  associates  and  dear  friends.  It  is  this  element 
which  makes  the  meeting  this  morning  more  appreciated  them  the 
meetings  generally  that  I  have  attended  during  the  past  three  or  four 
years. 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  ONENESS  AND  LOVE 

I  am  glad  to  report,  however,  that  the  spirit  of  the  meetings  abroad, 
wherever  we  meet  Latter-day  Saints,  is  the  same  as  that  which  we 
have  here  this  morning.  It  matters  not  in  what  part  of  the  globe  the 
meeting  is  held,  whether  in  the  islands  of  the  sea,  in  Japan,  in  Syria, 
in  the  Scandinavian  countries,  in  England,  Germany,  France,  Holland — 
wherever  one  meets  a  group  of  Latter-day  Saints  whose  faith  in  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  unwavering,  there  one  finds  the  spirit  of 
oneness,  the  spirit  of  love,  the  spirit  of  willing  sacrifice  for  the  good 
of  humanity.  God  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints  all  over  the  world  that 
they  may  continue  in  that  same  spirit. 

APPEAL  FOR  AN  HONEST  HEARING 

It  is  a  source  of  regret  to  me  that  such  people  should  be  so  grossly 
misunderstood.    May  I  read  the  following: 

"We  desire  to  hear  of  thee,  what  thou  thinkest,  for  as  concerning 
this  sect  we  know  that  everywhere  it  is  spoken  against." 

These  are  the  words  of  some  Jews  from  Jerusalem  to  whom  Paul, 
then  a  prisoner,  bound  in  Rome,  had  made  an  appeal  for  an  honest 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


hearing".  They  referred  to  the  sect  called  Nazarene.  Everywhere 
it  was  spoken  against.  Today  after  nearly  two  thousand  years  every- 
body acquainted  with  Christianity  knows  that  Paul  was  falsely  accused, 
and  that  that  sect  was  vilified  by  those  who  spoke  against  it.  It  is 
a  simple  matter  today  to  understand  the  wrong  that  was  done  to  Paul 
and  to  the  believers  in  the  lowly  Nazarene,  but  it  isn't  so  easy  for  some 
people  to  see  that  today  in  the  matter  of  persecuting  a  religious  or  - 
ganization history  is  repeating  itself.  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  as  was  the  Church  in  the  meridian  of  time,  is 
everywhere  spoken  against,  and  its  missionaries,  are  falsely  accused. 
Paul,  even  at  the  time  these  men  said  they  would  like  to  hear  him,  was 
in  Rome,  because  he  had  been  accused  of  being  a  pestilent  fellow,  a 
mover  of  sedition,  a  profaner  of  the  temple,  all  of  which  he  denied 
before  Festus.  He  denied  these  charges  also  before  Felix,  he  denied 
them  before  King  Agrippa,  and  bore  his  testimony  before  them,  as 
President  Grant  has  borne  his  testimony  this  morning,  to  the  divinity 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  But  everywhere  the  people  spoke  against 
him. 

IGNORANCE   THE   CAUSE   OF   MIS  JUDGMENT 

I  have  been  impressed  during  the  last  few  years  with  this  fact, 
that  many  people,  British  particularly,  seem  to  choose  to  believe  the 
bad  things  that  are  said  against  this  people  in  preference  to  the  good. 
I  have  tried  to  analyze  why  this  is  so ;  and  I  have  come  to  the  conclusion 
that  much  of  it  is  due  to  ignorance.  There  are  two  principal  classes 
of  men  and  women  in  the  world  who  choose  to  fan  this  flame  of  igno- 
rance. These  two  classes  are,  first,  those  who  will  vilify  an  honest 
people  for  mercenary  purposes ;  and  second,  those  who  misunderstand 
or  who  misinterpret  the  doctrines  of  the  Church  of  Christ  and  justify 
themselves  in  opposing  it  on  the  ground  that  they  do  not  wish  their  peo- 
ple to  be  contaminated  by  false  doctrines.  The  first  class,  those  who 
wilfully  tear  down  another's  reputation  to  get  gain,  I  think  should  be 
classed  among  the  worst  people  on  earth.  The  government  handles  a 
man  who  will  take  the  life  of  another,  and  may  make  him  forfeit  his  own 
life  for  that  which  he  takes.  I  think  next  to  the  heinous  sin  of  murder 
is  the  crime  of  murdering  one's  reputation  to  get  gain.  W.e  have  men 
and  at  least  three  women  in  the  world  who  are  guilty  of  this  despicable 
thing.  Such  purveyors  of  falsehood  have  that  within  them  which  seems 
to  feed  upon  the  slander  which  is  current  among  mankind.  Oliver 
Goldsmith  said  that  this  spirit  is  like  -the  tiger  which,  after  having 
tasted  human  flesh,  ever  afterwards  pursues  men  in  order  *to  satiate 
his  appetite.  So  the  slanderer  who  has  once  gratified  his  appetite  with 
calumny,  makes  ever  after  the  most  agreeable  feast  upon  murdered 
reputation.  It  is  a  difficult  thing  to  oppose,  indeed  often  it  is  best 
not  to  attempt  to  oppose  it ;  for  as  one  great  thinker  has  said,  "Slander 
has  a  strange  constitution,  the  more  you  oppose  it  the  more  it  grows." 
Thus,  because  of  the  activity  of  this  class  of  people,  and  also  because 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY  13 

of  the  activity  of  those  who  choose  to  misinterpret  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  justify  themselves  in  opposing  it,  we  find  throughout  the 
world  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is  spoken  against,  not  because 
of  what  the  Church  is,  but  because  of  what  people  think  it  is.  There  is 
a  vast  difference  between  those  two  things. 

IN  SPITE  OF  ALL,  THE  WORK  OF  GOD  IS  GROWING  IN  EUROPE 

But,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  delighted  to  report  to  you  that  in 
spite  of  this  condition  the  work  of  God  is  growing  by  leaps  and  bounds 
in  the  European  mission.  In  Great  Britain  where  I  have  spent  much 
of  my  time  during  the  past  few  years,  I  am  pleased  to  report  that  the 
work  is  progressing,  and  that  the  outlook  is  most  favorable.  There 
150  young  men  are  devoting  their  time  to  the  spreading  of  the  truth 
and  to  the  contradicting  of  these  vile  stories  that  have  received  such 
current  circulation  in  that  country.  The  same  may  be  said  of  the 
other  missions  in  Europe.  In  Holland  the  work  is  growing.  Only 
last  October  on  a  Wednesday  night,  Amsterdam  hall,  just  dedicated 
for  the  little  branch  there,  was  crowded  to  overflowing,  and  that  is  but 
typical  of  most  of  the  meetings  held  there. 

The  French  mission  has  just  been  organized,  but  in  Switzerland 
the  branches  are  growing,  slowly  it  is  true,  but  growing. 

In  Belgium,  part  of  the  French  mission,  the  work  is  increasing 
rapidly. 

In  Syria,  Brother  Booth  is  devoting  his  life  to  the  work  among 
the  Armenians,  and  the  cause  is  in  good  hands.  True  we  are  not 
doing  much  missionary  work  there;  but  rather  taking  care  of  the  little 
branch  that  is  ours,  waiting  for  the  opening  of  that  great  mission. 

In  the  Scandinavian  countries  we  find  the  same  spirit  of  progress. 

GROWTH  IN  GERMANY  BY  LEAPS  AND  BOUNDS 

In  Germany  the  work  is  growing  by  leaps  and  bounds.  You  will 
be  interested  to  know  that  last  March  in  Koenigsberg  when  we  'held 
our  conference,  there  were  sitting  on  the  stand  in  the  beautiful  gym- 
nasium, part  of  a  public  school,  seventy-five  children  who  furnished 
music  for  the  six  hundred  people  assembled  in  a  Sunday  School 
session  of  conference.  That  night  seventy-five  adult  voices  furnished 
the  music  for  the  conference,  the  hall  crowded  to  capacity,  and  as 
part  of  that  service  they  rendered  most  efficiently  and  effectively  part 
of  Haydn's  "Creation."  On  that  same  tour,  on  the  following  Tues- 
day at  Stettin,  We  found  the  hall  crowded  to  capacity  at  ten  minutes 
to  7:00  o'clock.  An  excellent  choir  furnished  the  music.  On  our  way 
to  that  service,  publicly  announced,  we  passed  on  our  left  the  jail 
in  which  some  of  our  elders  had  been  incarcerated  but  a  few  years  be- 
fore, for  preaching,  or  attempting  to  preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
On  the  following  Sunday  in  one  of  the  large  assembly  rooms  of  a 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


school  house  in  Berlin  there  were  assembled  over  one  thou- 
sand children,  Sunday  School  members,  in  one  of  the  most 
inspirational  Sunday  School  sessions  I  have  ever  attended.  It  is  a  sig- 
nificant fact  that  the  street  car  officials  of  that  great  city,  ran  special 
cars  for  the  benefit  of  the  Latter-day  Saint  children.  That  afternoon 
we  met  in  the  Staat  hall  in  Berlin,  twelve  hundred  eighty-six  people 
worshiping  God  there  without  molestation.  Five  minutes  walk  from 
where  we  met  stands  the  jail  in  which  President  Clawson,  my  brother 
Thomas  E.,  and  some  of  their  fellow-workers  were  incarcerated,  a  few 
years  ago,  for  attempting  to  hold  meetings  such  as  we  were  holding 
there  with  permission  of  the  Berlin  authorities.  On  October  7,  1924,  in 
Hamburg  we  held  a  most  remarkable  conference.  On  the  Saturday 
night  of  which  one  hundred  voices,  nearly  all  of  whom  were  members  of 
the  Church  rendered  Evan  Stephen's  "The  Vision"  in  a  most  inspir- 
ational manner.  Sunday  night,  as  the  concluding  number  of  an  in- 
spirational, never-to-be-forgotten  conference,  that  same  'choir  sang 
"The  Martyrs."  These  two  great  productions  have  been  translated  into 
German  by  one  of  our  own  brethren.  The  choir  had  been  trained  by  one 
of  our  own  elders. 

THE  FIRST  CLASS  PRESS  MORE  FAVORABLE 

Saturday  night  the  choir  of  one  hundred  voices  was  assisted  by 
one  hundred  fifty  children  who  sang  "Praise  to  the  man  who  communed 
with  Jehovah."  A  man  not  in  the  Church  was  sitting  by  my  side,  and 
when  those  combined  choirs  sang  so  inspiringly  and  in  perfect  tune, 
so  far  as  my  ear  could  detect,  I  dropped  my  head  because  of  the  tears 
in  my  eyes,  and  I  saw  tears  rolling  down  my  companion's  cheeks,  im- 
pressed beyond  expression.  These  are  but  a  few  incidents  indicative 
of  the  progress  now  being  made  in  the  European  mission.  Another 
encouraging  indication  is  the  fact  that  leading  papers  in  London  and 
in  Liverpool  and  other  great  cities  of  the  European  mission  have  re- 
fused to  print  slanderous  stories  about  the  so-called  "Mormons."  A 
few  years  ago  these  vile  slanders  were  given  free  currency.  I  will  add 
also  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  those  missions  are  united  with  the 
elders  in  counteracting  the  falsehoods  and  vilifications  and  vitupera- 
tions that  are  so  generally  accepted  as  true.  Tracting  societies,  carried 
on  by  our  own  members,  are  quietly,  though  effectively,  overcoming 
the  ignorance  that  seems  to  be  the  cause  of  the  misunderstanding  against 
this  great  Church,  which  stands  for  all  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
contains. 

OUR  ELDERS  TEACH  THE  FUNDAMENTALS  OF  CHRISTIANITY 

Recently  I  read  a  summary  of  the  fundamental  teachings  of  Chris- 
tianity given  by  Albert  P.  Fitch,  formerly  professor  in  Amherst  College, 
one  of  these  modernists  to  whom  President  Grant  has  referred.  The 
first  fundamental  in  the  spirit  of  Christianity  he  gives  as  the  ethical 
and  religious  supremacy  of  Jesus  Christ.    This  faith  means  believing 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


what  Jestts  said  regarding  the  moral  and  religious  nature  of  God  and 
man.  The  second  fundamental  he  names  as  the  acceptance  of  Christ's 
religious  teaching  and  practice  on  the  ground  that  it  sets  forth  the 
principle  which  can  be  workable  on  our  world,  and  the  one  principle 
potent  enough  to  overcome  our  world.  As  the  third  condition  in  that 
belief  he  begins  with  Jesus'  teaching  as  to  the  nature  and  character  of 
God  and  he  names  the  Father  whom  Jesus  teaches  as  having  redemptive 
love  freely  and  supremely  given,  supremely  exemplified  in  good  will 
toward  man.  The  fourth  condition  of  this  universal  belief  in  Jesus 
means  to  be  a  son  and  a  brother  in  this  kingdom,  this  divine  family 
which  Jesus  teaches ;  and  to  be  a  son  and  brother  means  to  love  our 
fellowmen  the  way  God  loves  us. 

-  These  this  prominent  writer  gives  as  the  fundamentals  of  Chris- 
tianity. These  the  elders  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  are  preaching. 
Their  aims  are  lofty,  their  purposes  are  sublime,  and  the  world  in- 
stead of  speaking  against  them  should  encourage  them  and  uphold  them. 
Particularly  this  is  true  of  the  state  of  Utah.  Every  citizen  of  this 
state  owes  an  obligation  to  the  2,000  missionaries  who  are  out  represent- 
ing this  state  in  honor.  Why  should  anyone  condemn  the  missionaries 
who  are  out  preaching  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  without  price,  paying 
their  own  expenses  for  teaching  to  the  world  the  Fatherhood  of  God, 
the  brotherhood  of  man,  and  bearing  witness  in  kindness  and  love,  that 
our  Father  has  appeared  to  man,  that  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  has  been 
raised  from  the  tomb  and  now  lives,  bearing  witness  to  the  word  of 
the  immortality  of  the  soul?  Who  should  vilify  people  for  standing 
on  that .  sublime  ground  ?  They  testify  further  that  the  Church  of 
Christ  is  organized  in  its  perfection,  and  if  the  world  will  accept  that 
Church  and  apply  its  principles  economically,  educationally  and  so- 
cially, the  brotherhood  of  man  will  be  established  and  the  millennium 
for  which  all  honest  souls  are  longing  will  be  hastened. 

TESTIMONY 

I  testify  to  you  here  that  God  lives,  that  he  is  near  to  his  servants, 
and  will  hear  and  answer  them  and  guide  them  when  they  come  to 
him.  I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives.  I  know  it!  I  know  that  he 
has  spoken  to  man  in  this  age.  I  know  that  his  Church  is  established 
among  men.  God  help  us  all  to  be  true  to  it  and  help  the  world  to  see 
it  as  it  is  and  not  as  ignorant  men,  and  vicious  men  and  women  some- 
times picture  it,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 

PRIESTHOOD  CONVENTIONS 

During  the  past  three  months,  by  direction  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  there  have  been  held,  in  many  of  the  stakes 
of  Zion,  priesthood  conventions,  the  purpose  of  which  was  to  stimu- 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


late  renewed  zeal  and  increased  activity  in  the  councils  and  quo- 
rums of  the  Priesthood.  I  hail  with  delight  the  inauguration  of 
this  heaven-inspired  movement,  in  which  I  am  proud  and  happy 
to  have  taken  part. 

The  Priesthood,  which  means  divine  authority  and  the  men  in 
whom  that  authority  is  vested,  is  by  far  the  most  important  thing 
in  the  Church  of  Christ;  being,  in  fact,  the  rock  upon  which  it 
rests.  There  could  be  no  Church  without  the  Priesthood.  It  is 
therefore  of  vital  consequence  that  all  the  quorums  and  councils  should 
function  effectively  toward  the  great  ends  for  which  they  were 
instituted. 

To  my  mind  the  most  enjoyable  of  the  meetings  held  in  con- 
nection with  the  priesthood  conventions,  were  those  in  which  the 
brethren  who  had  been  appointed  to  speak  related  instances  of  the 
power  of  the  Priesthood  that  had  come  under  their  observation  or 
within  the  range  of  their  experience.  What  I  heard  in  those  meet- 
ings awakened  in  me  a  desire  to  discourse  briefly  upon  the  subject  at 
this  general  conference  of  the  Church. 

A  GOD  OF  MIRACLES 

Among  the  words  of  the  Savior,  as  recorded  in  the  New  Testa- 
ment, are  the  following: 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you.  He  that  believeth  on  me,  the  works  that  I  do 
shall  he  do  also;  and  greater  works  than  these  shall  he  do;  because  I  go  unto 
my  Father."    (John  14:12.) 

To  what  particular  works  did  the  Savior  refer  when  he  made 
this  remarkable  promise  to  his  disciples?  I  believe  that  he  had 
reference  to  or  meant  to  include  the  wonderful  works,  connected 
with  his  mortal  ministry — the  miracles  whereby  he  manifested  his 
divine  power,  and  concerning  which  it  is  written :  He  "did  not  do 
many  mighty  works"  in  certain  places,  "because  of  their  unbelief." 

The  "beginning  -of  miracles"  in  the  Savior's  ministry  was  the 
turning  of  water  into  wine,  at  the  marriage  feast  in  Cana  of  Galilee 
(John  2:11).  Afterwards  he  fed  a  multitude  of  five  thousand  peo- 
ple with  five  loaves  and  two  fishes.  He  walked  upon  the  water, 
stilled  the  tempest,  healed  the  sick,  cast  out  devils,  gave  sight  to  the 
blind,  raised  Lazarus  from  the  tomb,  and  did  many  other  marvel- 
ous works. 

SIGNS  TO  FOLLOW  BELIEF 

He  endowed  his  apostles  with  the  same  power  (Matt.  10:1-8), 
and  having  commissioned  them  to  "go  into  all  the  world  and  preach 
the  Gospel  to  every  creature,"  he  said,  "And  these  signs  shall  fol- 
low them  that  believe.  In  my  name  shall  they  cast  out  devils; 
they  shall  speak  with  new  tongues;  they  shall  take  up  serpents; 
and  if  they  drink  any  deadly  thing  it  shall  not  hurt  them;  they 
shall  lay  hands  on  the  sick  and  they  shall  recover"  (Mark  16:17, 
18).    "And  they  went  forth  and  preached  everywhere,  the  Lord 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


17 


working  with  them  and  confirming  the  word  with  signs  following" 
(Ibid  5:20).  No  good  Christian  doubts  this,  nor  does  any  faithful 
Latter-day  Saint. 

HIGHER  CRITICISM'S  ATTITUDE 

Nevertheless,  there  is  a  growing  disposition  in  these  modern 
days  to  discredit  and  deny  all  such  things — to  do  away  with  every- 
thing savoring  of  the  supernatural.  "Higher  Criticism,"  as  it  is 
called,  seems  to  regard  this  as  its  special  mission.  It  would  fain 
strip  the  Son  of  God  of  his  divinity,  and  make  him  merely  a  good 
and  a  great  man  whose  teachings  are  salutary  and  uplifting.  Jesus 
Christ,  we  are  told,  was  not  miraculously  begotten ;  he  did  not  do 
the  mighty  works  attributed  to  him ;  his  blood  did  not  atone  for 
sin,  nor  was  he  raised  from  the  dead  to  become  the  Author  of  the 
Resurrection.  All  these  are  myths  and  fables,  invented  for  propa- 
gandist purposes,  and  are  unworthy  of  credence  by  any  intelligent 
mind.  Such  is  the  attitude  of  the  so-called  "Higher  Criticism," 
otherwise  known  as  "Modernism."  The  logic  of  its  advocates  is 
simply  this:  We  cannot  do  works  of  that  kind,  and  therefore 
works  of  that  kind  cannot  be  done. 

I  concede  the  first  proposition,  but  not  the  second.  They  who 
doubt  the  possibility  of  miracles  are  indeed  without  the  power  to 
perform  them.  But  this  does  not  prove  that  believers  lack  that 
power.  Miracles  are  the  fruits  of  faith.  "These  signs  shall  follow 
them  that  believe."  The  gist  of  the  matter  is  this :  These  doubters 
have  done  away  with  God,  or  have  tried  to  do  away  with  him,  and 
consequently  are  unable  to  conceive  of  a  higher  power  than  they 
themselves  possess. 

ILLUSTRATIVE  ANECDOTES 

Their  position  reminds  me  of  an  incident  that  occurred  many 
years  ago,  when  I  was  a  ward  bishop  in  this  city.  It  was  Sunday 
evening,  and  a  Primary  Association  conference  was  in  progress  at 
the  ward  chapel.  One  of  the  sisters,  a  Primary  teacher,  gathered 
the  little  tots  around  her  upon  the  stand,  and  told  them,  the  story 
of  Jesus  feeding  the  multitude.  Going  home  that  night,  one  of 
the  mothers,  anxious  to  impress  the  lesson  upon  the  mind  of  her 
little  son,  asked  him  the  question:  "What  did  Sister  Blank  tell 
you  this  evening?"  "She  told  us  about  the  Savior  feeding  the  peo- 
ple," answered  the  boy.  "How  many  people?"  queried  the  mother. 
"Five  thousand."  "And  what  did  He  feed  them  with?"  "Five 
loaves  of  bread  and  two  fishes."  "Well,  now,  how  do  you  suppose 
he  could  do  that?"  The  little  fellow  mused  a  moment,  and  then 
blurted  out:    "Well,  I  don't  believe  those  in  the  middle  got  any." 

His  child  mind  could  not  grasp  the  idea  that  it  was  a  miracu- 
lous feeding  of  the  multitude,  and  that  it  was  done  by  the  power 
of  God,  and  not  of  man. 

Another  little  boy,  of  whom  you  may  have  heard — for  I  have 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


told  the  story  more  than  once  in  the  congregations  of  the  Saints — 
was  of  quite  a  different  turn.  Johnny  was  his  name,  and  he  had 
a  little  brother  named  Billy.  The  two  were  playing  in  their  moth- 
er's door-yard.  Johnny  was  whittling  a  stick,  and  Billy  had  just 
caught  a  fly.  "Johnny,"  said  he,  "what  a  funny  thing  a  fly  is.  See 
what  lots  of  legs  he's  got.  And  every  time  I  blow  him  he  buzzes 
(suiting  the  action  to  the  word).    I  wonder  how  God  made  him." 

Yes,  and  I  wonder  too.  I  wonder  how  He  made  the  sunbeam, 
and  the  blade  of  grass,  and  the  flowers  and  the  trees.  I  don't 
know — all  I  know  is  that  they  are. 

But  Johnny  had  an  idea  of  how  God  made  the  fly.  He  went 
on  whittling,  and  said  :  "Well,  Billy,  God  don't  make  flies  like 
men  make  houses.  When  he  wants  flies  he  says,  Let  there  be  flies, 
and  then  there  is  flies." 

Johnny  had  read  the  Bible,  and  understood  it.  He  had  learned 
the  first  great  lesson  of  Scripture :  "And  God  said,  Let  there  be 
light,  and  there  was  light."  His  mind  could  allow  for  the  differ- 
ence— the  vast  difference  between  the  might  of  Omnipotence  and 
the  puny  strength  of  mortal  man. 

NOT  CONTRARY  TO  LAW 

One  objection — perhaps  the  main  one — urged  against  a  belief 
in  miracles,  is  that  they  are  contrary  to  law.  But  that  is  a  great 
mistake.  They  are  in  strict  conformity  with  law.  The  universe  is 
governed  by  law,  and  its  Creator  works  in  consonance  therewith. 
But  there  are  greater  laws  and  lesser  laws,  and  the  greater  suspend 
at  times  the  operation  of  the  lesser.  When  this  occurs,  men  ex- 
claim :  "A  miracle !"  Others  say :  "It  never  happened,  for  it  is 
contrary  to  law."  Contrary  to  some  law  it  may  be,  or  may  seem 
to  be — some  lesser  law  with  whose  everyday  workings  men  are 
familiar;  but  not  contrary  to  some  higher  law  regarding  which  they 
may  know  little  or  nothing. 

CARLYLE  ON  NATURAL  LAWS 

"What  are  the  laws  of  Nature?"  asks  Carlyle,  and  answers  his 
own  question  thus :  "To  me  perhaps  the  rising  of  one  from  the 
dead  were  no  violation  of  these  laws,  but  a  confirmation,  if  some 
far  deeper  law,  now  first  penetrated  into,  and  by  spiritual  force, 
as  all  the  rest  have  been.,  were  brought  to  bear  on  me  with  its 
material  force.  *  *  *  'They  [the  laws  of  Nature]  stand  writ- 
ten in  our  books  of  science',  say  you ;  'in  the  accumulated  record  of 
man's  experience.'  Was  man  with  his  experience  present  at  the 
creation,  then,  to  see  how  it  all  went  on?  Have  any  deepest  scien- 
tific individuals  yet  dived  down  to  the  foundations  of  the  universe, 
and  gauged  everything  there?  Did  the  Maker  take  them  into  his 
counsel,  that  they  read  his  ground-plan  of  the  incomprehensible 
All,  and  can  say,  This  stands  marked  therein,  and  no  more  than 
this?    Alas,  not  in  any  wise!    *    *    *    To  the  minnow,  every 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


19 


cranny  and  pebble  and  quality  and  accident  of  its  little  creek  may 
have  become  familiar;  but  does  the  minnow  understand  the  ocean 
tides  and  periodic  currents,  the  trade  winds  and  monsoons  and 
moons'  eclipses,  by  all  which  the  condition  of  its  little  creek  is 
regulated,  and  may  from  time  to  time  (unmiraculously  enough),  be 
quite  upset  and  reversed?"  (Sartor  Resartus,  Natural  Super- 
naturalism.) 

A  grand  old  thinker,  that  Carlyle.  Man  is  not  a  minnow,  to  be 
sure.  But  neither  is  man's  finite  wisdom  any  criterion  by  which  to 
judge  the  infinite  wisdom  of  the  All-wise. 

ELISHA  AND  THE  AX 

When  Elisha  the  Prophet  caused  the  sunken  ax-head  to  float 
on  the  surface  of  the  river  into  which  it  had  accidentally  fallen  (II 
Kings  6:1-6),  he  was  working  in  acccordance  with  law,  but  not  any 
ordinary  law.  The  Law  of  Gravitation,  in  obedience  to  which  all 
things  on  earth  tend  toward  a  common  center — the  center  of  the 
earth — required  the  ax  to  stay  where  it  was,  at  the  bottom  of  the 
stream.  But  the  Prophet  evidently  knew  of  a  higher  law  which 
could  suspend  the  action  of  the  law  of  gravity  as  to  that  particular 
object.    He  invoked  that  higher  law,  and  "the  iron  did  swim." 

MOSES  AND  THE  RED  SEA 

When  Moses  divided  the  Red  Sea,  so  that  Israel  might  pass 
through  and  escape  from  the  pursuing  Egyptians,  who  were  over- 
whelmed by  the  returning  waters,  he  was  working  in  accordance 
with  law — divine  law.  And  the  same  is  true  of  all  servants  of  the  Lord 
who  have  wrought  miracles  at  any  time. 

JOSHUA  AND  THE  SUN 

"Higher  Crtiticism"  laughs  to  scorn  the  idea  of  Joshua  com- 
manding the  sun  and  moon  to  stand  still,  so  that  Israel  might  have 
light  enough  effectually  to  defeat  his  enemies  (Joshua  10:12-14); 
and  the  Bible  account  which  declares  that  "the  sun  stood  still  and 
the  moon  stayed,"  is  treated  with  derision.  Because,  forsooth,  if 
the  sun  had  halted  even  for  a  moment  in  its  regular  course,  the 
whole  mighty  universe  would  have  come  crashing  down  into  chaos 
and  ruin.  Well,  perhaps  so,  if  there  had  been  no  God  to  uphold 
it — the  God  who  made  the  sun  and  moon,  and  whose  almighty 
power  holds  them  in  their  orbits  and  controls  their  every  action.  I 
see  nothing  more  marvelous  in  controlling  the  heavenly  bodies, 
than  in  creating  them  in  the  first  place.  Be  it  a  fact,  as  is  claimed, 
that  it  was  the  earth  that  stood  still  in  Joshua's  day,  and  that  the 
sun  and  moon  only  seemed  to  be  stationary,  that  does  not  affect 
the  main  argument.  The  same  God  who  made  the  earth  also  made 
the  sun  and  moon,  and  could  have  stayed  them  in  their  course  had 
He  so  willed. 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


WHAT  ARE  MIRACLES? 

Miracles  are  extraordinary  results  flowing  from  superior  means 
and  methods  of  doing  things.  When  man  wants  light  he  strikes  a 
match,  or  presses  a  button,  or  turns  a  switch — and  lo !  there  is  light. 
When  God  wants  light,  he  says:  "Let  there  be  light."  It  is 
simply  a  matter  of  knowing  how  to  do  things  in  a  superior  way, 
and  having  the  power  to  do  them.  Man  is  gradually  acquiring  this 
power.  It  is  a  far  cali  from  the  tallow  dip  to  the  electric  light. 
But  the  end  is  not  yet.  Improvements  will  continue  to  be  made, 
and  some  day,  perhaps,  men  may  be  able  to  make  light  just  as  the 
Lord  makes  it.  Paradoxically,  it  might  be  said  that  the  time  will 
come  when  miracles  will  be  so  common  that  there  will  be  none. 

MODERN  INSTANCES 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  not  strangers  to  the  miraculous  work- 
ings of  divine  power.  Our  history  as  a  people  is  replete  with  such 
occurrences.  I  could  relate  many  experiences  of  my  own  in  sup- 
port of  this  assertion,  and  so  could  these,  my  brethren,  seated  here 
upon  the  stand. 

My  first  experience  of  the  kind  was  in  the  year  1877,  when  I 
was  a  missionary  in  the  State  of  Ohio.  I  had  been  preaching  in 
the  farming  districts  near  the  town  of  Elyria,  testifying  that  the 
miraculous  "signs"  promised  by  the  Savior  were  in  the  Church  of 
Christ  today,  the  same  as  in  days  of  old.  A  sick  woman  took  me 
at  my  word  and  sent  for  me.  She  had  been  suffering  for  six  weeks 
with  neuralgia,  and  was  almost  maddened  by  the  incessant  pain. 
She  asked  me  to  administer  for  her  relief.  Up  to  that  time  I  had 
never  performed  the  healing  ordinance,  and  felt  very  timorous  over 
the  outcome,  fearing  that  if  she  were  not  healed  I  would  be  deemed 
an  impostor  and  perhaps  driven  out  of  the  neighborhood.  More- 
over, her  husband  had  threatened  to  kill  any  "Mormon"  missionary 
who  crossed  his  threshold.    But  I  went — and  was  not  molested. 

No  sooner  had  I  laid  my  hands  upon  that  woman's  head,  than 
a  power  came  upon  me  that  I  had  never  felt  before,  nor  have  I  ever 
felt  it  since,  in  the  same  degree.  It  was  a  burning  in  my  bosom, 
so  powerful  as  to  almost  deprive  me  of  speech,  and  it  went  like 
fire  to  the  very  tips  of  my  fingers.  I  rebuked  the  pain  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  woman  was  instantly  healed.  "Thank 
God !"  she  said,  "the  pain  has  gone."  I  sank  into  a  chair  and  burst 
into  tears,  overcome  by  this  manifestation  of  the  goodness  and 
power  of  God. 

Not  long  afterwards,  I  was  visiting  a  family  of  Saints  in  the 
coal-mining  region  near  the  town  of  Akron.  A  married  daughter 
of  the  household  came  trudging  through  a  snow  storm,  with  her 
two  little  children,  a  distance  of  three  miles,  to  get  me  to  baptize 
her.  I  did  so,  the  immersion  taking  place  in  a  little  brook  running 
through  her  father's  lot.    It  was  February,  and  the  weather  was 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


21 


extremely  cold.  The  moment  I  stepped  into  the  icy  stream  a  pain 
shot  up  to  my  heart,  and  I  feared  for  a  moment  that  I  would  have 
to  step  out  again.  I  feared  also  that  the  little  woman  would  not  be 
able  to  endure  it.  So  I  silently  prayed  that  the  water  might  be 
tempered.  Immediately  there  was  a  change  in  it — or  else  in  me, 
for  I  felt  the  cold  no  more,  nor  did  she  complain  of  it  at  all. 

HEALING  SELF-ADMINISTERED 

The  baptism  over,  she  went  on  her  way  rejoicing.  But  I  was 
in  distress.  A  pain  had  seized  me  in  the  elbow  of  my  left  arm, 
and  it  steadily  grew  worse.  That  evening  I  used  some  liniment 
upon  it,  but  got  no  relief,  and  my  arm  continued  to  swell  and 
stiffen.  I  could  hardly  move  it  next  day,  but  by  that  time  I  knew 
just  what  to  do.  There  was  some  consecrated  oil  in  the  house, 
but  my  green  inexperience  had  made  me  think  that  it  would  be 
improper  to  use  it  on  myself,  there  being  no  other  elder  present. 
But  suffering  had  opened  my  eyes,  and  my  faith  was  strong,  for  I 
felt  that  the  pain  had  no  business  there.  That  night  I  carefully 
washed  off  the  liniment,  applied  the  holy  oil,  and  rebuked  the  pain 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  The  effect  was  instantaneous.  I  turned  my 
arm  over — the  pain  was  gone ;  and  I  have  never  felt  a  vestige  of  it 
since. 

THE  GREATER  SUSPENDS  THE  LESSER 

One  more  instance,  and  I  am  done.  Some  years  ago  I  was  en- 
gaged to  deliver  a  lecture  in  one  of  the  towns  south  of  this  city, 
and  was  on  my  way  to  the  lecture  hall  when  I  received  a  message 
from  the  bishop  of  the  ward,  asking  me  to  come  and  administer 
to  his  little  daughter,  who  was  critically  ill.  Her  doctor  had  said 
that  she  could  not  live  till  morning.  Taking  with  me  another 
elder,  I  proceeded  to  the  bishop's  home,  and  we  administered  to 
the  dying  girl.  Next  morning  a  telephone  message  informed  me 
that  a  marvelous  change  had  taken  place.  The  young  patient,  who 
had  not  slept  for  days  prior  to  being  blessed  by  us,  immediately 
thereafter  had  sunk  into  a  sweet  and  refreshing  slumber.  She 
slept  twelve  hours,  and  woke  up — normal,  and  continued  so.  The 
doctor  was  astounded,  and  the  parents,  of  course,  were  overjoyed. 
That  girl,  then  fifteen  years  of  age,  and  now  twenty-four,  is  an 
active  member  of  the  ward  in  which  she  resides,  has  a  good  posi- 
tion, and  goes  to  and  from  her  work  as  well  and  happy  as  if  she 
had  never  known  a  day's  illness. 

Her  physician  had  said  that  she  could  not  live  till  morning — 
and  no  doubt  he  was  right,  from  his  viewpoint.  Medical  science 
had  so  decreed,  and  but  for  the  interposition  of  Divine  Providence, 
that  decree  would  probably  have  gone  into  effect.  According  to 
the  lesser  law  she  could  not  live.  But  a  greater  law  said :  "She 
shall  live."  And  the  lesser  could  not  operate  in  the  presence  of 
the  greater. 


2> 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ALL  THINGS  POSSIBLE  TO  THEM  THAT  BELIEVE 

Miracles  belong  to  no  particular  time  or  place.  Wherever  and 
whenever  there  is  a  legitimate  demand  for  the  exercise  of  divine 
power,  that  power  will  act,  and  marvels  will  result.  We  worship 
a  God  of  miracles,  and  he  changeth  not,  but  is  the  same  yesterday, 
today  and  forever  (Mormon  9:7-11,  17-20).  There  is  but  one  valid 
reason  for  the  absence  of  miracles  among  any  people,  and  that 
is  the  absence  of  faith.  "All  things  are  possible  to  them  that 
believe." 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "How  firm  a  foundation,  ye 
Saints  of  the  Lord." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Nelson  J.  Hogan,  president 
of  the  Idaho  stake  of  Zion. 

Meeting  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  opened  the  meeting  by  announcing 
that  the  choir  and  congregation  would  sing,  "O  say  what  is  truth?" 

After  singing,  Elder  Colen  H.  Sweeten,  president  of  the  Curlew 
stake  of  Zion,  opened  the  meeting  with  prayer. 

A  duet,  "For  so  hath  the  Lord  commanded,"  was  sung  by  Cannon 
Lund  and  August  Glissmeyer. 

BISHOP  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

It  is  a  great  honor,  I  am  sure,  to  be  asked  to  speak  to  this  con- 
gregation, but  I  approach  this  duty  with  fear  and  trembling.  The  meet- 
ing this  morning,  the  first  session  of  our  conference,  gave  assurance 
that  the  Lord  is  still  with  his  Saints,  and  still  recognizes  this  work,  and 
that  he  is  sustaining  his  servants  who  labor  for  his  honor  and  glory. 

There  is  a  deep  significance  in  Elder  McKay's  testimony  given 
this  morning,  when  he  spoke  concerning  the  changed  conditions  in 
some  nations  of  the  earth  where  hitherto  our  sons  suffered  imprisonment 
for  trying  to  preach  the  gospel ;  while  now  places  of  prominence  are 
open  to  them,  even  the  halls  of  the  governments,  in  which  Latter-day 
Saint  missionaries  have  been  invited  to  hold  meetings.  What  has 
brought  about  this  change? 

During  recent  years,  especially  since  the  World  War,  great  changes 
have  taken  place  in  this  direction.  I  call  your  attention  to  a  revelation 
of  the  Almighty,  given  to  the  Church  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  found  in  Section  98,  beginning  at  the  4th  verse : 

"And  now,  verily  I  say  unto  you  concerning  the  laws  of  the  land,  it  is 


BISHOP  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


23 


my  will  that  my  people  should  observe  to  do  all  things  whatsoever  I  command 
them. 

"And  that  law  of  the  land  which  is  constitutional,  supporting  that  principle 
of  freedom  in  maintaining  rights  and  privileges,  belongs  to  all  mankind,  and  is 
justifiable  before  me. 

"Therefore,  I,  the  Lord,  justify  you,  and  your  brethren  of  my  church,  in 
befriending  that  law  which  is  the  constitutional  law  of  the  land; 

"And  as  pertaining  to  law  of  man,  whatsoever  is  more  or  less  than  these 
cometh  of  evil. 

"I,  the  Lord  God,  make  you  free,  therefore  ye  are  free  indeed;  and  the 
law.  also  maketh  you  free. 

"Nevertheless,  when  the  wicked  rule  the  people  mourn. 

"Wherefore,  honest  men  and  wise  men  should  be  sought  for  diligently, 
and  good  men  and  wise  men  ye  should  observe  to  uphold ;  otherwise,  whatsoever 
is  less  than  these  cometh  of  evil." 

Again,  in  the  101st  section  of  the  same  book,  commencing  at  the 
77th  verse,  we  find : 

"According  to  the  laws  and  the  Constitution  of  the  people,  which  I  have 
suffered  to  be  established,  and  should  be  maintained  for  the  rights  and  pro- 
tection jof  all  flesh,  according  to  just  and  holy  principles; 

"That  every  man  may  act  in  doctrine  and  principle  pertaining  to  futurity, 
according  to  the  moral  agency  which  I  have  given  unto  him,  that  every  man 
may  be  accountable  for  his  own  sins  in  the  day  of  judgment. 

"Therefore,  it  is  not  right  that  any  man  should  be  in  bondage  one  to 
another. 

"And  for  this  purpose  have  I  established  the  Constitution  of  this  land,  by 
the  hands  of  wise  men  whom  I  raised  up  unto  this  very  purpose,  and  redeemed 
the  land  by  the  shedding  of  blood." 

This  last  revelation  was  given  just  after  the  Saints  had  been  driven 
from  their  homes  in  Missouri.  Yet  the  Lord's  words  to  his  people 
were  that  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  is  that  which  "I  estab- 
lished." This  divinely  conceived  Constitution  is,  we  are  told,  for  the 
benefit  of  all  mankind.  The  Lord  said  that  its  underlying  principles 
are  for  the  benefit  of  all  flesh,  not  made  for  this  country  alone,  but  in- 
tended to  govern  the  whole  world. 

Why  is  it  that  the  elders  are  not  permitted  to  preach  the  gospel  in 
Russia  today,  where  there  are  a  hundred  and  eighty  million  people  who 
have  scarcely  heard  of  the  gospel?  It  is  because  of  the  moral  agency 
that  the  Lord  speaks  of  in  the  revelation  known  as  section  101.  These 
people  are  denied  their  free  agency.  The  rulers  of  this  people  have 
a  wrong  conception  of  the  rights  and  privileges  which  the  Lord  says 
pertain  to  all  mankind. 

In  the  109th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  is  a  prayer, 
given  by  revelation  to  Joseph  the  Seer,  which  was  repeated  in  the 
Kirtland  temple  at  the  time  of  its  dedication  on  March  27,  1836.  I 
shall  not  undertake  to  read  it,  but  shall  quote  only  the  54th  paragraph : 

"Have  mercy,  O  Lord,  upon  all  the  nations  of  the  earth ;  have  mercy  upon 
the  rulers  of  our  land ;  may  those  principles  which  were  so  honorably  and 
nobly  defended,  namely,  the  Constitution  of  our  land,  by  our  fathers,  be  estab- 
lished forever." 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


These  words  were  uttered  as  a  part  of  the  dedicatory  prayer,  not- 
withstanding the  persecution  the  Saints  had  suffered  prior  to  1836, 
persecution  suffered  at  the  hands  of  people  who  were  prejudiced,  people 
who  were  ignorant  as  to  what  the  Latter-day  Saints  stood  for,  ignorant 
as  to  their  beliefs  and  their  aims.  Notwithstanding  all  this,  and  clearly 
showing  the  broad  and  liberal  spirit  of  this  great  latter-day  work  where 
such  matters  are  concerned,  the  words  last  quoted  were  uttered  as  a 
part  of  the  dedicatory  prayer. 

The  revelations  found  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  sections 
98  and  101,  which  I  have  quoted,  and  in  which  the  Lord  has  said  that 
no  man  should  be  in  bondage  to  another,  were  given  at  a  time  when 
millions  of  negroes  were  in  bondage  in  the  southern  part  of  the  United 
States.  At  that  time  there  existed  a  great  question  as  to  whether  or 
not  slavery  should  be  perpetuated,  and  it  seemed  that  the  decision 
might  be  in  favor  of  continuing  to  hold  this  black-skinned  race  under 
bondage  to  the  white  men  who  owned  them.  Thk  question  was 
settled  a  few  years  later,  when  the  Supreme  Court  rendered  its  decis- 
ion in  the  Dred  Scott  case.  Dred  Scott  was  a  negro  who  escaped  from 
serfdom  and  went  into  one  of  the  eastern  states.  His  owner  followed 
him  and  replevined  him,  claiming  he  was  after  his  own  property,  just 
as  he  would  go  for  a  mule  or  an  ox  or  a  cow.  Under  the  law  the 
slave  was  his  property.  Chief  Justice  Taney,  then  at  the  head  of  the 
Supreme  Court,  delivered  the  decision  that  this  was  the  law,  the  con- 
stitutional law.  This  discision  was  the  law  of  the  land;  but  in  the 
justice  and  mercy  of  Almighty  God,  even  a  law  which  became  a  con- 
stitutional law,  had  to  be  overthrown,  and  the  Lord  raised  up  Abraham 
Lincoln  and  others  -to  see  that  the  law  laid  down  by  Him — that  one  man 
should  not  be  in  bondage  to  another — was  set  right  and  true  freedom 
established  in  this  land. 

From  that  day  on,  millions  more  of  slaves  have  been  freed  in 
Russia  and  other  lands.  In  these  latter-days,  thrones  have  tottered 
and  fallen,  and  in  place  of  these  has  come  a  representative  form  of 
igovernment,  a  government  of  the  people,  a  government  which  gives 
the  people  their  moral  agency,  spoken  of  in  the  revelations  I  have  read, 
and  which  the  Lord  says  is  pertinent  to  all  mankind. 

It  is  true  that  there  might  be  a  constitution  similar  to  ours  in  such 
countries  as  Mexico  or  Russia,  and  the  results  would  not  be  at  all  the 
same,  for  the  people  of  these  countries  are  not  as  intelligent  as  are  the 
people  of  this  nation.  But  even  in  such  countries,  our  Constitution 
could  not  help  but  produce  a  better  government,  for  in  that  Consti- 
tution are  the  underlying  principles  which  will,  in  time,  teach  these  peo- 
ple to  govern  themselves  intelligently.  In  order  that  the  various  peoples 
of  the  earth  may  at  sometime  reach  the  point  at  which  they  can  in- 
telligently govern  themselves,  the  Lord  in  his  mercy  has  in  the  past 
overthrown  nations  comprised  of  millions  of  people  who  have  been 
subjected  to  unrighteous  domination. 


BISHOP  CHARLES  W.  NIB  LEY 


25 


Now,  coming  to  our  own  land,  our  own  Constitution,  I  think 
we  hardly  appreciate  sufficiently  what  this  Constitution  means  to  us 
and  to  the  work  of  the  Lord.  It  is  my  belief  that  this  Constitution, 
which  the  Lord  declared  he  established,  is  for  the  benefit  of  all  man- 
kind. Verse  77,  Section  101,  reads  as  follows:  "According  to  the 
laws  and  constitution  of  the  people,  which  I  have  suffered  to  be  estab- 
lished, and  should  be  maintained  for  the  rights  and  protection  of  all 
flesh,  according  to  just  and  holy  principles."  Certainly,  the  funda- 
mental, governing  principles  which  the  Lord  has  established  on  the 
earth  under  the  name  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  were 
meant  for  all  men,  everywhere.  These  principles,  with  their  accompany- 
ing freedom  and  liberty,  are  inseparably  connected  with  our  great 
latter-day  work,  it  seems  to  me ;  for  the  Lord  tells  us  that  this  free- 
dom, this  liberty,  was  brought  about  through  the  hands  of  wise  men 
whom  he  raised  up.  Without  this  great  Government  of  ours,  this  God- 
given  Constitution,  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  could  never  have  found 
an  abiding  place  in  the  earth.  They  are  connected,  correlated,  inter- 
locked one  with  the  other ;  for  the  Constitution,  like  the  gospel  itself, 
is  for  the  benefit  of  all  flesh,  for  all  mankind. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  tells  us  that  so  long  as  the  people  of  this 
nation  are  willing  to  acknowledge  Jesus  Christ  as  the  God  of  this 
land,  or  as  the  ruler  of  this  nation,  so  long  shall  his  mercies  be  ex- 
tended unto  them.  Notwithstanding  the  weaknesses  of  our  people,  and  of 
other  people,  I  believe  that  today  there  is  a  greater  desire  in  the  minds 
of  millions  of  people  of  this  nation  to  acknowledge  God  and  to  ac- 
knowledge Jesus  Christ  and  to  live  righteous  lives  than  there  has  ever 
been  before.  While  in  some  ways  wickedness  may  be  increasing,  yet 
there  is  an  earnest  desire  in  the  hearts  of  millions  of  people  in  this 
nation  to  acknowledge  God  and  serve  him. 

Only  a  month  ago  President  Coolidge  delivered  his  inaugural 
address,  and  he  closed  it  with  the  name  of  God  upon  his  lips.  These 
are  the  closing  wTords  of  that  address : 

"America  seeks  no  earthly  empire  built  on  blood  and  force.  No  ambition, 
no  temptation,  lures  her  to  the  thought  of  foreign  dominion.  The  legions 
which  she  sends  forth  are  armed,  not  with  the  sword,  but  with  the  cross.  The 
higher  state  to  which  she  seeks  allegiance  of  all  (mankind  is  not  of  human, 
but  of  divine,  origin.  She  cherishes  no  purpose  save  to  merit  the  favor  of 
Almighty  God."  !  f '  '  ■   i  jj 

Here  is  a  direct  acknowledgement,  most  direct,  coming  from  the 
very  head  of  the  nation,  showing  that  the  nation  believes  in  God, 
believes  in  his  divine  providence,  and  asks  for  nothing  save  the  favor  of 
God. 

When  Abraham  pleaded  with  the  Lord  that  the  cities  of  the  plain 
might  not  be  destroyed,  he  was  told  that  if  he  could  find  ten  righteous 
people,  the  Lord  would  spare  them.  I  believe  that,  instead  of  ten 
righteous  people  in  this  nation  of  one  hundred  and  ten  millions,  there 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


are  millions  of  people  who  are  righteous,  who  daily  seek  the  Lord,  and 
who  try  to  live  according  to  their  beliefs. 

On  the  coin  of  the  realm  there  is  another  direct  acknowledgment 
that  as  a  nation  we  believe  in  God,  for,  stamped  on  every  silver  dollar 
and  on  every  goldpiece,  are  the  words:    "In  God  We  Trust." 

Also,  in  our  national  anthem  we  have  these  words: 

"Then  conquer  we  must,  for  our  cause  it  is  just, 
And  this  be  our  motto :    'In  God  is  our  trust !' 
And  the  Star-spangled  Banner  in  triumph  shall  wave, 
O'er  the  land  of  the  free,  and  the  home  of  the  brave." 

I  believe  that  it  is  my  duty  and  your  duty  to  teach  our  children 
concerning  this  great  God-inspired  Constitution,  this  great  law  of 
liberty  which  he  has  given  to  this  world,  and  which  was  never  given 
before  to  any  nation  in  any  land.  Never  before  has  there  been  a  rep- 
resentative government  of  this  kind.  Republics  have  been  tried,  hun- 
dreds of  times,  thousands  of  years  ago,  but  never  was  there  anything 
like  this  Government.  If  I  had  the  time  I  could  point  out  the  differences 
between  our  God-given  Government  and  those  governments  of  men. 

In  our  nation's  hymn  "America,"  we  have  the  words  which  were 
given,  I  believe,  by  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty.  '  The  last  verse 
of  this  hymn  is  the  one  that  declares  our  beliefs  as  to  who  is  the  God 
of  this  land,  and  while  we  sing  it,  I  believe  that  we  feel  in  our  hearts 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  indeed  our  God,  the  true  Ruler  over  this  great  land 
of  ours.    The  words  of  the  last  verse  are  these: 

"Our  father's  God!  to  thee, 
Author  of  Liberty, 
To  thee  we  sing ; 
Long  may  our  land  be  bright 
With  freedom's  holy  light; 
Protect  us  by  thy  might, 
Great  God,  our  King!" 
The  Lord  bless  us.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

About  ten  days  ago  it  seemed  as  if  I  might  be  prevented  from  at- 
tending this  great  gathering.  I  took  counsel  with  myself,  and  came  to 
the  conclusion  that  the  general  conferences  of  the  Church,  which  I  have 
been  permitted  to  attend,  with  considerable  regularity,  ever  since  the 
days  of  my  early  manhood,  have  been  a  tremendous  source  of  strength  to 
me.  I  doubt  whether  any  other  Church  activity  has  been  more  powerful 
in  establishing  and  building  my  faith  than  these  great  general  con- 
ferences. 

GOD  GUIDES  AND  DIRECTS  THIS  PEOPLE 

I  have  been  stirred  by  this  conference;  and  uplifted  in  my  feelings. 
I  desire  to  bear  witness  to  the  truth  of  that  which  has  been  spoken. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


27 


God  has  indeed  been  with  us,  and  his  word  has  been  taught  by  his  ser- 
vants who  have  been  called  upon  to  address  us  this  day.  It  is  always 
a  source  of  gladness  to  me  to  recognize,  in  the  events  within  the  Church, 
that  God  does  indeed  guide  and  direct  this  people. 

THE  TRUE  MEANING  OF  LIFE 

These  great  gatherings  are  a  constant  marvel  to  me.  There  are  none 
other  like  them  in  the  world.  I  never  attend  one  without  pondering  upon 
the  real  reason  why  these  conferences  bring  out  these  hosts  of  people, 
all  apparently  of  one  mind,  one  heart,  and  one  understanding.  President 
Grant's  remarks  this  morning  gave  the  explanation.  These  thousands 
could  not  assemble  every  six  months,  and  enjoy  these  meetings,  unless 
we  were  certain  about  the  great  issues  of  human  life.  I  believe  that 
every  person  here  belonging  to  the  Church,  who  has  caught  the  spirit 
of  this  great  latter-day  work,  feels  certain  as  to  the  origin  of  man, 
the  purpose  of  life,  and  the  destiny  of  humanity.  Perhaps  no  search 
in  the  history  of  the  world  has  been  equal  to  the  search  for  the  truth 
regarding  the  origin  and  destiny  of  man.  We  have  had  times  when  great 
nations  have  given  themselves  to  a  search  for  wealth  or  for  long  life. 
The  elixir  of  life  and  the  philosopher's  stone  were  the  objects  of  man's 
seeking  for  many  generations,  and  at  other  times  men  have  sought  other 
great  things.  But  there  has  never  been  a  time  when  the  great  majority 
of  thinking  people  have  not  attempted  to  seek  out  the  true  meaning  of 
life.  We  have  found  that  true  meaning.  In  the  hearts  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  there  is  an  assurance  as  to  the  meaning  of  life,  and  that 
security  of  knowledge  makes  possible  the  many  wonderful  things  that 
characterize  this  Church  and  Kingdom. 

UNCERTAINTY  OF  THE  MEANING  OF  LIFE  A  CAUSE  OF  WICKEDNESS  . 

As  I  travel  about  among  those  not  of  our  faith  it  seems  to  me  that 
the  uncertainty  concerning  the  meaning  of  life  is  a  chief  cause  of  the 
wickedness,  indifference  and  fear  which  are  found  among  the  nations 
today.  In  fact,  whenever  uncertainty  with  respect  to  this  fundamental 
problem  attacks  an  individual,  from  that  moment  on,  either  fear  develops 
with  him,  fear  of  the  unknown,  often  leading  to  superstition,  or  he 
becomes  indifferent,  and  says:  "I  don't  know  whence  I  came,  I  don't 
know  where  I  am  going,  why  should  I  care?  Let  me  do  my  bit  today, 
my  little  kindness,  but  pay  no  attention  to  the. churches  or  to  organized 
forms  of  religion,  because  I  don't  really  know  what  is  the  truth." 

REVEALED  RELIGION  GIVES  THE  INTERPRETATION 

Curiously  enough,  our  wealth  of  modern,  man-made  knowledge 
sheds  little  light  upon  the  meaning  of  life,  unless  interpreted  in  the  light 
of  revealed  religion.  How  different  with  us  Latter-day  Saints !  If  we 
know  one  thing  with  certainty,  it  is  that  we  were  in  the  beginning  with 
God,  that  we  came  here  according  to  a  fully  and  completely  devised 
plan,  and  that  we  shall  live  on  after  this  life,  forever  and  forever. 

Father  Lehi,  in  his  remarkable  farewell  address  to  his  children, 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


as  recorded  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  declares  that  "Adam  fell  that  men 
might  be;"  and  continues,  "and  men  are  that  they  might  have  joy."  Any 
person  reading  this  statement  so  frequently  quoted  among  our  people, 
must  understand  that  the  very  essence  of  it  is  that  there  is  no  chance 
with  respect  to  the  great  program  of  human  life,  but  that  this  earth  and 
all  things  on  it,  every  living  soul,  fits  into  the  great,  eternal  plan 
prepared  by  Almighty  God  before  the  foundations  of  this  earth  were 
laid.  In  another  place  in  modern  scripture  we  have  a  statement  to  the 
effect  that  not  only  shall  we  have  joy  in  this  life,  on  this  earth,  but 
that  in  the  hereafter  we  shall  have  "immortality  and  eternal  life."  Not 
merely  continued  existence,  from  age  to  age,  but  eternal  life  with  all 
that  life  implies — activity,  development,  growth  and  increase  of  every 
proper  kind  of  character.  Such  doctrines  give  joy  to  the  human  heart. 
Such  doctrines  make  it  possible  to  live  on  this  earth  in  the  face  of 
difficulties  that  men  of  necessity  have  to  encounter. 

THE  GREAT  PRINCIPLE  OF  ETERNAL  PROGRESS 

I  am  especially  grateful  for  the  doctrine  that  we  shall  go  on, 
throughout  the  endless  ages,  far  beyond  the  comprehension  of  man.  I  am 
indeed  grateful  that  all  has  not  been  revealed  today,  because  if  we  are 
to  go  on,  today  and  tomorrow  and  throughout  all  time  to  come,  then  we 
shall  be  continually  learning  and  increasing  in  knowledge.  I  find  men 
occasionally  who  are  very  fond  of  discussing  the  unrevealed  truths  of 
the  gospel.  To  them  everything  must  be  explained;  there  must  be  no 
mystery.  This  is  completely  out  of  harmony  with  the  great  principle  of 
eternal  progression,  one  of  the  cornerstones  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  I  am  thankful  that  I  do  not  understand  all  things ;  that  I  have 
been  given  a  certain  field  of  knowledge  into  which  I  must  fit  this  mortal 
life  to  the  best  of  my  ability ;  and  that  I  know  for  a  certainty  that  on  the 
tomorrow,  when  this  life  is  passed,  or  perhaps  before  it  is  over,  new 
light  and  knowledge  may  be  given  me. 

I  am  grateful  also  that  man  is  that  he  "might  have  joy."  I  be- 
lieve that  statement  does  not  mean  joy  merely  in  the  hereafter ;  I  be- 
lieve it  means  joy  on  this  earth.  As  a  people,  we  are  and  should  be 
joyful,  glad  and  happy.  We  should  so  live  that  those  who  come  among 
us  would  observe  that  gladness  is  in  our  hearts,  because  of  the  truths 
that  have  been  given  us.  The  body,  mind  and  spirit  should  be  used  to 
give  joy,  not  sensual  pleasure  to  man.  However,  merely  knowing  a  doc- 
trine or  a  truth  is  not  enough  to  make  us  fully  happy,  or  to  give  us 
that  complete  joy  of  which  Father  Lehi  speaks.  Undoubtely,  the  one 
great  way  to  achieve  joy  in  this  life  is  that  laid  down  by  President 
Grant  this  forenoon.  A  person,  to  enjoy  satisfaction  in  life  and  to 
stand  firmly  upon  his  feet  in  the  walks  of  life,  must  of  necessity  obey 
law  which  really  means  the  proper  use  of  knowledge.  Conformity  with 
law  gives  joy,  opposition  of  law  brings  misery  and  unhappiness. 

OBEDIENCE  10  LAW 

How  much  of  the  law  should  a  man  obey?  All  of  the  law!  Not  one 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


29 


law  should  be  forgotten.  Let  us  obey  all  the  law,  with  all  our  might 
and  strength,  and  we  shall  find  the  joy  that  characterizes  those  who 
really  understand  life,  and  who  have  won  the  full  measure  of  gladness. 
I  am  thankful  that  we  have  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  very  many  per- 
sons, perhaps  the  majority  of  the  members,  who  so  live  that  this  great 
joy,  which  has  been  promised  us,  is  theirs  indeed. 

SINCERITY  A  DOMINANT  TRAIT  IN  THE  CHURCH  AND  ITS  LEADERS 

Obedience  to  law  must  be  impelled  by  simple  honesty  or  sincerity. 
I  wonder  if  we  are  quite  sincere  in  our  obedience,  or  if  we  give  to  the 
Lord  with  hidden  motives  in  our  hearts.  We  cannot  be  anything  but 
sincere  if  we  are  true  Latter-day  Saints.  Men  who  give  of  their  time, 
talents  or  means  without  fully  giving  themselves,  their  hearts,  only 
give  in  part.  Throughout  the  history  of  this  Church  is  the  simple 
thought,  that  sincerity  lies  at  the  foundation  of  this  organization.  The 
people  of  the  kingdom  have  come  from  all  corners  of  the  earth,  after 
accepting  this  gospel  with  full  sincerity,  holding  nothing  back.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  sincere.  Brigham  Young  was  sincere ;  there 
was  no  doubt  in  their  minds.  They  did  not  dissemble ;  they  were  not 
playing  a  game;  they  were  not  acting  a  part;  but  sincerity  is  evident 
in  everything  that  they  did.  Some  so-called  historians  who  have 
written  about  us,  have  laid  as  the  foundation  of  their  writings  the 
assumption  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  scoundrel  who  attempted  to  fool 
the  people,  and  that  Brigham  Young  became  a  "Mormon"  because  he 
loved  wealth  and  power.  That  is  not  history.  Those  who  will  read  the 
history  of  this  Church,  with  honest  hearts,  freeing  themselves  of  pre- 
judice, will  come  back  to  the  conclusion  that  this  work  was  founded  in 
honesty.  Any  historians  or  purported  historians  who  begin  their  work 
by  assuming  that  the  founders  of  this  Church  were  dishonest  or  in- 
sincere, do  not  write  history,  they  write  travesty.  History  is  more  than 
a  mere  chronology  of  facts.  History  is  a  great  interpretation  of  events. 
The  events  of  "Mormonism"  bring  out  clearly  the  fact  that  a  sincere 
feeling  has  dominated  all  of  its  years. 

JOY  COMES  BY  OBEYING  THE  WILL  OF  GOD 

I  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  it  is  possible  to  be  happy 
*in  this  Church  and  kingdom.  I  know  that  joy  may  be  won  by  those  who 
will  do  the  will  of  God.  I  have  tried,  as  you  have,  to  keep  the  law 
fully.  I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  as  I  try  and  try  again  to  live  the 
full  law,  a  joy  far  beyond  the  power  or  the  giving  of  man,  becomes 
mine. 

A  few  years  ago  an  old  widow  on  her  death  bed  asked :  "Is  this 
death  ?"  And  the  answer  came  ;  "Perhaps  it  may  be  near."  She  then  sat 
up  in  bed,  asked  that  pillows  support  her,  and  said :  "If  this  be 
death,  then  I  want  to  testify  of  the  joy  I  have  had  in  finding  and 
living  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Gladness  has  come  into  my  soul  be- 
cause of  this  great  gift  which  I  found  in  my  early  womanhood."  A  week 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ago,  on  the  train,  I  met  the  type  of  man  who  has  found  joy  in  this  work. 
This  man,  not  yet  very  old,  but  in  the  afternoon  of  life,  told  me  the 
story  of  his  life.  He  had  been  on  three  missions.  His  sons,  five  or 
six  of  them,  had  gone  on  missions.  He  had  twice  sold  out  his  property 
that  he  might  obey  the  call  of  the  priesthood  and  go  on  missions.  Now, 
in  his  declining  years,  yet  vigorous  and  strong,  he  told  me  with  what 
a  joy  he  faced  the  coming  years.  His  children  were  taught  in  the  truth, 
he  himself  had  a  modest  home,  and  the  good  things  of  life,  so  far  as 
he  needed  them.  I  said  to  him:  "Brother,  you  have  sacrificed  much, 
but  you  have  also  a  great  abundance  of  blessings  to  compensate  you  for 
the  sacrifice  you  have  made."  He  turned  to  me,  looked  into  my  eyes, 
and  said :  "Brother,  I  sacrificed,  therefore  have  I  the  blessings.  With- 
out sacrifice  I  should  not  have  known  the  great  joy  which  is  promised 
to  those  who  live  the  principle  of  the  gospel." 

I  bear  witness  again  to  the  truth  of  this  work,  to  its  spiritual 
power  and  to  its  sufficiency  in  guiding  men  in  all  the  affairs  of  life. 
I  pray  that  we  may  be  continually  blessed  by  God,  that  we  may  always 
be  willing  to  give  unto  him  all  that  may  be  required  of  us,  that  we  may 
go  onward,  and  that  the  work  may  be  prospered,  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  solo,  entitled,  "Flee  as  a  Bird",  was  sung  by  Archibald 
Bronson.    It  was  said  that  this  was  Brigham  Young's  favorite  song. 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  the  privilege 
of  attending  this  wonderful  gathering  of  the  Church,  and  upon  this 
opening  day  of  our  conference  seeing  so  many  people  gathered  together. 
Truly  it  is  a  marvelous  sight  to  look  into  the  faces  of  those  who  have 
congregated  in  this  building,  and  to  note  that  there  are  many  who 
cannot  find  seats,  and  who  are  standing  in  the  aisles,  and  some,  I  take 
it  from  their  movements,  who  have  gone  to  the  Assembly  Hall,  or  to 
some  other  place  where  they  might  receive  the  instruction  and  the 
admonition  and  advice  that  are  given  at  this  conference.  I  rejoice  in 
this  great  latter-day  work,  and  the  spirit  that  prompts  these  great 
gatherings  and  brings  these  people  from  so  great  distances  to  be  refresh- 
ed and  admonished  and  built  up  in  their  faith  in  God,  that  they  might 
learn  more  of  all  their  duties  to  him  and  to  their  fellowmen,  and  go 
home  to  their  respective  abiding  places  and  further  the  progress  of  this 
work  of  our  Father. 

I  rejoice  that  in  the  day  and  age  in  which  we  live,  the  kingdom  of 
God  is  again  established  in  the  earth.  I  have  an  abiding  faith  and 
testimony  that  the  kingdom  forseen  and  foretold  by  that  great  man, 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


31 


Daniel,  in  the  interpretation  he  gave  to  the  dream  of  the  great  king 
of  Babylon,  is  now  established  upon  the  earth,  as  has  been  said  at  this 
conference.  There  is  no  doubt  in  the  hearts  and  in  the  minds  of 
Latter-day  Saints  regarding  the  existence  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 
There  is  no  doubt  in  the  hearts  and  minds  of  Latter-day  Saints  re- 
garding the  life  and  existence  and  work  of  our  Redeemer  and  our 
Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  There  is  absolutely  no  doubt  today,  either  in  the 
minds  of  the  old  or  the  young,  as  to  whether  this  is  the  Church  of 
God  established  in  the  earth  or  not,  for  we  know  that  it  is.  I  bear  you 
my  witness  this  afternoon  that  I  know  God  has  again  spoken  from 
the  heavens,  that  he  has  revealed  himself  to  his  chosen  servants,  and 
that  he  has  lestored  the  same  power,  keys,  and  Priesthood  that  he  gave 
to  his  servants  in  all  ages  of  the  world  and  particularly 
to  his  servants  in  the  meridian  of  time,  when  he  gave  to  Peter  and 
to  his  companions  the  keys  of  the  kingdom.  I  know  that  the  holy 
Priesthood  is  here  upon  the  earth  today.  I  rejoice,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  without  the  shadow  of  a  doubt  and  without  feeling 
in  my  heart  any  sense  of  hyprocrisy,  I  can  say  to  you  this  after- 
noon that  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God,  raised  up 
to  establish  this  work  in  the  day  and  age  in  which  we  live.  I  rejoice 
that  I  have  heard  that  testimony  borne  by  my  father.  I  rejoice  that 
I  have  read  that  same  testimony  recorded  in  the  words  uttered  by  my 
grandparents,  and  I  rejoice  that  I  have  lived  long  enough  upon  the 
earth  to  have  heard  my  own  son,  I  believe  in  all  sincerity,  bear  that 
same  testimony. 

I  have  labored  now  for  nearly  nineteen  years  in  the  missionary 
field,  with  your  sons  and  daughters.  There  is  nothing  in  all  the  wide 
world  that  brings  me  more  joy  or  more  happiness  than  to  associate  with 
them,  and  to  hear  them  with  all  humility  and  in  all  sincerity  declare 
to  the  world  that  they  know  these  things  are  true. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  do  not  stop  with  this  testimony,  and  I 
wish  to  go  further  this  afternoon.  It  is  of  course,  traditional  now 
among  us  all,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God,  but  I  wish 
to  continue  my  testimony  and  say  I  know  that  all  who  have  succeeded 
him  as  presidents  of  this  Church  have  been  prophets  of  God;  and 
while  in  the  discharge  of  their  duties,  and  living  the  lives  of  Latter- 
day,  Saints,  all  who  have  occupied  the  positions  of  apostles  have  been 
in  very  deed  apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  men  of  the  Lord, 
raised  up  to  work  in  the  ministry  to  perfect  the  Saints,  and  to  be 
instruments  through  whom  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  might  come, 
where  they  might  minister,  either  at  home  or  abroad.  I  bear  you  my 
witness  today  that,  more  than  I  know  any  other  one  thing,  it  seems 
to  me,  I  know  that  President  Heber  J.  Grant  is  a  prophet  of  God, 
and  that  through  him  the  Lord  makes  known  his  mind  and  will  to 
this  people.  We  can  only  be  safe  in  obedience  to  the  advice  and  to 
the  counsel  and  to  the  admonition  and  to  the  reproof  that  may  come 
to  us  through  the  sources  of  which  I  have  spoken. 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  wish  to  leave  with  you  this  testimony  and  to  say  that  I  dedicate 
my  life  and  my  services  to  the  Lord,  and  I  desire  to  serve  him  by  serving 
my  fellow  men.  I  rejoice  at  the  opportunities  that  have  come  to  me 
to  labor  in  the  ministry  abroad.  I  have  said  before,  and  I  stated  this 
to  our  missionaries  with  whom  I  recently  held  a  conference,  that  if 
I  held  no  anticipation  of  reward  in  the  future,  I  have  been  an 
hundredfold  paid,  more  than  perhaps  I  deserve,  through  the  knowl- 
edge I  have  that  through  my  teachings,  I  have  brought  hope  into 
the  lives  of  people  who,  before  they  knew  me,  were  without  hope, 
and  that  hope  has  been  brought  through  the  teaching  of  the  principles 
of  this  everlasting  gospel  that  is  dearer  to  me  than  my  life. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  be  faithful  and  to  be  true  to  the  great 
knowledge  that  has  come  to  us,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen, 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

It  is  not  considered  indelicate  to  speak  in  laudation  of  one's  country 
and  extol  its  institutions  and  people.  By  the  same  token  I  am  sure 
that  it  ought  not  to  be  considered  indelicate  to  speak  of  one's  church 
and  his  people,  and  to  commend  their  achievements  and  their  greatness. 
It  seems  to  me  desirable,  particularly  at  this  time,  that  attention  should 
be  called  in  rather  liberal  manner  to  the  greatness  and  the  richness  of 
our  people;  this,  at  least  in  part,  because  an  insidious  and  subtle  effort 
seems  to  be  made,  and  is  now  in  progress,  to  underestimate  the  achieve- 
ments of  this  people  and,  in  consequence,  to  undermine  the  faith  and  the 
confidence  of  those  who  study  us  and  give  some  favorable  attention  to 
Us,  and  in  particular  the  faith  and  the  confidence  of  our  young  people. 

THE  ATTITUDE  AND  SPIRIT  OF  OUR  PEOPLE 

I  believe  that  without  arrogance  and  undue  presumption,  I  am 
justified  in  saying  that  we  are  the  greatest  people  on  the  face  of  the 
earth  today.  I  recognize  the  fact  that  in  making  such  a  statement 
I  should  bring  myself  under  some  condemnation  by  those  who  set 
themselves  up  as  critics  of  our  work,  our  faith  and  our  people.  The 
most  charitable  consideration  of  them,  however,  I  think  is  that  they 
do  not  know  and  do  not  understand  the  genius  of  our  work,  and  the 
attitude  and  spirit  of  our  people.  They  cannot  understand  our  great 
endeavor  to  follow  in  the  footsteps  of  the  Master  and  teach  his  gospel, 
unless  they  possess  the  spirit  of  the  gospel  which  comes  from  the  Lord 
himself.  For  while  the  things  of  man  may  be  understood  and  com- 
prehended by  the  spirit  and  intelligence  of  man,  the  things  of  God 
cannot  be  understood  except  by  the  Spirit  of  God;  and  when  men 
in  criticism  of  our  work,  ridicule  our  members  and  belittle  our  high 
conceptions,  they  do  not  understand  the  import  and  significance  of 
these  conceptions  or  else,  understanding  them,  they  are  prompted  by 
an  evil  spirit  to  attempt  to  undermine  the  work  and  thwart  its  great 
purposes. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


33 


GREAT  BY  PROCESS  OF  NATURAL  SELECTION 

I  say,  we  are  a  great  people.  We  are  great  by  process  of  natural 
selection.  You  have  heard  of  the  blood  of  the  Pilgrim  fathers  extolled. 
Sociologists  today  are  saying  that  the  perpetuation  of  that  blood,  the 
blood  of  those  men  who  came  from  England  and  Holland  and  estab- 
lished this  great  republic,  is  indispensable  to  the  perpetuation  of  the 
great  principles  of  liberty,  equity  and  justice  which  unaerly  this  mighty 
nation,  its  Constitution  and  institutions.  It  is  my  belief  that  the  men 
who  were  drawn  from  the  Old  World  to  found  this  Government  have 
been  selected  with  no  more  care  and  to  no  higher  purpose  than  the 
people  who  have  been  selected  from  all  the  hamlets  and  the  villages  of 
the  Old  and  the  New  World  to  come  to  Zion  to  prepare  the  foundation 
of  the  Kingdom  of  the  Living  God.  The  same  great  qualities  of  in- 
dependent thinking,  high  manhood,  power  and  strength,  were  indis- 
pensable in  both  instances ;  so  that  by  the  heritage  which  we  have  from 
our  great  ancestors  we  are  a  great  people. 

IN  WHAT  WE  ARE  GREAT  AS  A  PEOPLE 

We  have  been  great  in  achievement.  The  limited  time  at  my 
disposal  would  in  no  sense  justify  me  in  attempting  even  to  outline  the 
remarkable  acomplishments  of  the  people  of  the  Church  within  less 
than  a  century  of  time.  You  know  in  the  main  those  accomplishments, 
and  they  bear  witness  to  the  integrity  and  the  honor  and  the  devotion 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

We  are  great  in  the  message  that  we  have  to  give  to  the  world. 
That  message  is  the  greatest  message  that  has  ever  come  to  mankind. 
It  is  the  same  message  that  came  in  the  beginning  of  the  world.  It  is 
the  same  message  that  will  come  in  the  end  of  the  world,  for  the  sal- 
vation of  humankind,  and  the  establishment  of  God  s  Kingdom.  It 
contains  truths  which  are  indispensable  to  life,  to  the  knowledge  of  life, 
and  to  all  that  makes  life  worth  living. 

We  are  a  great  people  in  intelligence.  I  am  fully  aware  of  the  fact 
that  there  might  be  many  who  would  controvert  that  statement,  because 
there  are  many  today  who  measure  intelligence  by  different  standards 
and  criteria  than  we  set  up  for  the  measurement  of  pure,  true  intel- 
ligence. Intelligence,  as  I  conceive  it,  is  the  power  to  grasp  and  as- 
similate the  fundamental,  essential  truths  of  God  and  the  universe, 
and  those  great  truths  which  are  embraced  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
are  of  such  transcendent  importance  that  they  overshadow  all  other 
truths  assuming  that  there  is  such  a  distinction  so  that  the  minds  of  men, 
which  are  capable  of  understanding,  comprehending  and  knowing  gos- 
pel truths,  are  possessed  of  the  highest  order  of  intelligence  with 
which  God  has  endowed  the  human  family.  In  making  that  statement 
I  wish  in  no  sense  to  belittle  that  intelligence  which  is  capable  of  grasp- 
ing the  great  truths  of  science  and  of  making  application  of  the  laws 
of  nature  to  the  betterment  of  mankind.    I  rejoice  in  education,  in  its 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


culture,  in  its  refinement,  and  in  the  knowledge  and  power  that  comes 
from  it,  hut  I  maintain  that  the  highest  order  of  intelligence  is  that 
intelligence  which  is  capable  of  receiving  and  enjoying  a  testimony  of 
God's  greatest  and  highest  truth. 

We  are  a  great  people  in  power,  not  only  in  our  own  human  power, 
although  it  is  not  inconsideralble ;  but  we  are  great  in  the  power  that 
God  has  given  to  us.  He  has  endowed  us  with  a  portion  of  his  own 
power,  with  a  portion  of  his  own  strength,  and  with  that  power  and 
through  that  power,  the  Church  is  established,  this  work  is  maintained 
and  the  Lord  prepares  the  way  for  the  coming  and  establishment  of 
his  own  kingdom.  This  great  power  of  the  Priesthood,  is  the  power 
without  which  this  work  would  be  impossible.  It  is  the  greatest  power 
bestowed  upon  humankind.  It  is  given  for  the  most  important  offices 
and  service  to  humanity.  It  is  in  very  deed  a  portion  of  Godhood, 
and  you  men  and  boys  who  are  privileged  to  possess  it  more  nearly 
approach  God  in  your  Priesthood  than  in  any  other  attribute  or  way. 

IN  WHAT  WE  ARE  RICH  AS  A  PEOPLE 

Not  only  are  we  a  great  people,  we  are  a  rich  people ;  not  so  much 
in  the  things  of  this  world,  in  money  and  possessions  and  property, 
but  we  are  rich  in  those  things  which  are  essential  to  happiness  and  well- 
being.  We  are  rich  in  humility.  We  recognize  the  power  of  the  living 
God.  We  recognize  our  dependency  on  that  power,  and  we  subject 
ourselves  to  the  laws  of  God  and  endeavor  to  be  obedient  to  them. 
We  are  rich  in  virtue ;  thank  the  Lord  !  I  believe  there  is  no  community 
in  the  broad  land  where  there  is  so  much  of  clean  living,  so  much  of 
pure  thought,  and  a  people  so  free  from  contamination  by  those 
practices  which  so  generally  prevail  am'ong  mankind.  We  are  rich  in 
that  great  asset  of  humanity,  health.  We  are  rich  in  health  because 
we  have  endeavored  to  live  the  law  of  health,  spoken  of  as  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  We  are  rich  in  the  love  of  God,  and  that  is  a  great  source 
of  wealth.  I  think  that  is  the  greatest  source  of  wealth  that  any 
people  may  enjoy.  I  have  felt  for  years  and  years  that  if  the  love 
of  God  could  come  to  the  inhabitants  of  our  own  dear  country,  we 
should  be  free  from  the  disturbances  and  disorders,  and  the  problems, 
at  least  in  large  measure,  which  now  confront  us  ;  and  having  the  love 
of  God,  we  have  in  our  hearts  the  love  of  man,  illustrated  and  exempli- 
fied by  our  devotion  to  his  interests  and  our  sacrifices  to  teach  him 
those  vital  thinigs  so  essential  to  his  welfare  and  his  happiness.  We  are 
rich  in  our  homes,  in  the  places  where  we  live,  in  this  wonderful 
heritage,  in  this  great  land  of  Zion  itself.  We  would  not  exchange 
our  habitat  for  any  other  place  in  the  world.  We  were  led  to  it.  It 
came  to  us  through  divine  appointment.  It  is  a  part  of  God's  blessing, 
and  mercy  to  us.  Then  we  are  rich  in  vision,  without  which  a  people 
perish.  We  have  been  given  to  see  ahead.  We  are  not  relying  upon 
the  predictions  and  prognostications  of  men.  We  know  where  we 
are  going.   Thank  the  Lord  for  that  great  blessing.   We  know  that  the 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


35 


direction  we  take  leads  to  happiness  and  peace  and  joy  and  salvation. 
We  know  that  the  commandments  which  God  has  given  to  us  are  the 
promises  upon  which  we  may  build  a  structure  of  endurance.  There  is 
no  uncertainty  with  reference  to  our  future.  We  know  that  our  destiny 
is  high  and  great,  and  that  our  objectives  are  all  worthy  our  best  and 
highest  endeavor,  a  blessing  that  transcends  our  comprehension. 

OUR  TREMENDOUS  RESPONSIBILITY 

A  people  so  great  and  so  rich  are  surely  charged  with  tremendous 
responsibility.  We  are  charged  with  the  responsibility  of  establishing 
and  maintaining  this  great  Church,  this  great  instrumentality  with 
all  its  facilities  and  agencies,  designed  to  save  the  human  family  and  to 
exalt  men.  We  are  charged  with  the  responsibility  of  preserving,  in- 
violate and  free  from  corruption,  the  great  truths  of  the  gospel,  of  which 
we  are  living  custodians.  That  is  a  tremendous  responsibility.  If  we 
in  any  measure  fail  to  discharge  it  faithfully,  the  very  essence  of 
eternal  life,  the  gospel  itself,  may  be  in  its  effect  and  application,  lost 
to  mankind.  But  we  are  to  preserve  it  and  to  keep  it  sacred  and  in- 
violate for  the  generations  to  come. 

We  are  charged  with  the  responsibility  of  actually  founding  the 
kingdom  of  the  living  God ;  we  are  making  it  here,  for  I  believe  as 
I  stand  here  that  the  work  we  are  now  doing  is  in  preparation  for  the 
kingdom  that  is  to  be  established  and  presided  over  by  the  Lord  God 
himself.  Indeed  I  look  upon  our  own  work  and  endeavor  as  indicative 
of  the  same  kind  of  work  that  shall  be  carried  forward  when  the  Lord 
does  come  to  reign  and  to  conduct  the  affairs  of  his  kingdom  himself. 
What  a  responsibility !  How  much  it  means  to  us !  Men  of  God, 
women  of  Israel,  I  know  that  you  thrill  as  citizens  of  this  great  country 
when  you  hear  the  glorious  strains  of  the  Star  Spangled  Banner,  or  the 
sacred  anthem  of  America,  and  see  the  great  flag  of  the  country  raised 
aloft.  But  I  tell  you  that,  thrilled  as  you  may  be  by  patriotic  impulse, 
you  are  exalted  as  you  stand  under  the  banner  of  Christ  to  carry  for- 
ward his  mighty  work  and  establish  his  glorious  kingdom.  God  help 
us  to  be  faithful  to  our  trust,  and  worthy  of  our  riches,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 

President  of  the  Western  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  my  heart  has  been  made  to  rejoice  in  the 
testimonies  and  experiences  given  this  day.  I  have  pleasure  in  rep- 
resenting the  people  of  the  Western  states  mission  and  bringing  to 
you  greetings  from  them,  also  from  your  sons  and  your  daughters  who 
are  laboring  there,  preaching  the  gospel  of  repentance  .  I  have  never 
associated  with  a  finer  group  of  men  and  women  than  those  who  are 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


at  present  laboring  tinder  my  direction.  My  heart  has  been  filled  to 
overflowing  when  I  have  listened  to  their  testimonies  concerning  the 
establishment  of  God's  work  in  the  latter-days.  They  have  an  abiding 
faith  in  the  living  God,  they  have  an  abiding  faith  in  the  divine  mission 
of  Jesus  Christ  and  in  the  atoning  sacrifice  that  he  made  on  Calvary, 
for  the  redemption  and  salvation  of  the  human  family.  They  have  an 
abiding  faith  in  the  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  those 
who  were  associated  with  him  and  those  who  have  followed  in  his 
footsteps.  Undaunted  and  unafraid  they  are  proclaiming  the  message 
of  salvation  to  the  people  of  the  Western  states,  and  I  want  to  say  to 
you  that  those  who  are  accepting  their  message  are  receiving  the  same 
spirit  and  the  same  testimony  that  have  come  into  the  lives  of  all  Latter- 
day  Saints  who  have  obeyed  the  commandments  of  our  eternal  Father. 
They  are  ;not  afraid  to  lay  down  the  gauntlet  and  say  to  men  and  women 
everywhere :  "If  you  will  repent  of  your  sins  and  yield  obedience  to  the 
saving  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  you  shall  know  of  the  doctrine  whether 
it  is  of  God  or  whether  we  speak  of  ourselves."  The  testimony  of 
hundreds  of  men  and  women  who  have  received  the  ordinances  of  the 
gospel  is  to  the  effect  that  the  Spirit  of  God  has  come  into  their  lives, 
and  all  doubt  has  been  removed  from  their  souls.  They  have  been  made 
happy  in  the  knowledge  that  God  lives,  and  that  his  promises  are  true. 

I  would  like  to  relate  just  one  or  two  experiences  that  ihave  come 
to  me  from  the  men  and  women  who  have  received  the  message  of  the 
gospel  in  their  hearts  and  have  obeyed  it.  I  do  this  because  several 
have  said  to  me,  since  I  came  to  attend  the  sessions  of  this  conference : 
"Are  those  whom  you  are  baptizing  worth  while?  Are  they  faithful 
Latter-day  Saints?  Do  they  keep  the  commandments  of  God?"  I  want 
to  say  to  you  that  I  have  seen  genuine  faith  manifest  on  the  part  of  many 
who  have  accepted  the  gospel  and  who  are  far  removed  from  our  or- 
ganized branches,  isolated  if  you  please,  perhaps  a  single  family  alone 
in  the  community. 

I  call  to  mind  one  family  in  the  state  of  Wyoming,  the  qnly  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  in  the  small  community  where  they  reside,  baptized 
a  year  ago  last  February,  a  widow  with  eight  children,  six  boys  and 
two  girls.  Just  before  Christmas  of  last  year  I  received  a  letter  from 
the  oldest  boy,  nineteen  years  of  age,  to  this  effect.  Said  he:  "Elder 
Knight,  I  believe  that  I  am  being  neglected.  I  have  Deen  a  member 
of  the  Church  almost  a  year,  and  I  have  not  yet  been  called  upqn  a 
mission.  I  want  to  go  and  preach  thei  gospel.  I  may  not  measure 
up  to  the  standard  of  the  missionaries  that  you  have  in  Wyoming,  but  I 
will  do  my  very  best."  Realizing  that  his  mother  is  a  widow,  I  wrote 
her  a  letter  and  asked  her  what  should  be  done.  She  answered :  "I 
knew  that  my  boy  had  written  you.  I  make  approximately  one  hundred 
twenty-five  dollars  a  month  doing  hospitalization  work.  The  desire'  of 
my  heart  is  that  all  of  my  boys  may  do  missionary  work  for  the  Church 
of  Jessus  Christ,  and  if  I  can  pay  a  little  each  month  I  should  like  to 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 


37 


have  my  boy  go  as  soon  as  he  is  out  of  school  this  year."  Since  then 
I  have  received  several  letters  from  that  mother.  In  one  of  them  she 
said  that  slhe  had  never  earned  more  than  one  hundred  fifty  dollars 
in  a  single  month,  but  on  the  first  of  February  I  received  a  letter  from 
her  in  which  she  enclosed  her  tithing  for  the  month  of  January — thirty 
dollars  and  fifty-cents.  Said  she:  "Surely  the  Lord  has  been  good 
to  me.  Last  month,  I  made  more  than  twice  as  much  as  I  have  ever 
made  in  a  single  mointh,  before,  three-hundred  five  dollars ;"  and  in 
the  month  of  March  I  received  another  letter  in  which,  she  said :  "En- 
closed find  my  thithing  forty  dollars.  I  made  four  hundred  dollars  in 
February."  I  will  say  that  that  young  man  will  have  the  opportunity  of 
going  on  a  mission  and  preaching  the  gospel  of  repentaince.  The  Lord 
is  opening  up  the  way  for  that  widow  woman  and  not  only  the  one  boy, 
but-  others  will  follow,  and  they  will  make  valued  defenders  of  the 
faith. 

In  the  city  of  Pueblo,  three  weeks  ago  tomorrow,  another  little 
woman  came  to  me  and  said :  "President  Knight,  I  am  ready  to  mort- 
gage my  home  that  my  oldest  boy  might  have  the  desire  of  his  heart 
to  fill  a  mission  to  the  nations  of  the  world."  I  could  mention  many 
other  circumstances  of  like  character.  One  young  man  recently  joined 
the  Church  in  the  state  of  Nebraska.  He  was  prominently  identified 
with  one  of  the  protestant  organizations.  Since  his  baptism  he  has 
taken  an  active  part  with  our  missionaries  and  now  is  spending  two  to 
four  hours  each  day,  tracting  his  home  town  and  bearing  witness  that 
God  has  heard  his  prayers  and  that  he  knows  the  gospel  taught  by  the 
Latter-day  Saints  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  These  men  and 
women  who  are  receiving  the  gospel  are  worth  while.  The  same 
witness  has  come  into  their  lives  that  has  come  into  your  lives,  and 
•the  lives  of  all  who  have  accepted  the  gospel  and  obeyed  the  com- 
mandments of  our  eternal  Father.  I  rejoice  in  my  association  with 
these  men  and  women  because  of  their  faith  and  their  devotion. 

We  have  been  fortunate  in  baptizing  a  large  number  of  converts. 
Among  the  number  baptized  three  ex-ministers  of  the  gospel.  I  asked 
one  of  them  why  he  joined  the  Church,  and  he  said :  "For  years  I  have 
been  looking  for  a  satisfying  religion,  and  I  did  not  find  it  in  any  of 
the  protestant  churches,  neither  did  I  find  it  in  the  Catholic  church ; 
but  when  I  investigated  "Mormonism"  there  came  a  new  light  into  my 
life,  and  I  am  happy  to  have  come  in  contact  with  your  missionaries." 
He  said  further:  "I  want  all  the  books  that  have  been  written  by  your 
people,  because,  though  I  preached  the  gospel  for  many  years,  I  realize 
how  little  I  know  about  the  great  plan  of  salvation.  The  Bible  has  be- 
come a  new  revelation  to  me.  Every  time  I  open  its  lids,  new  in- 
spiration comes  into  my  life,  and  I  rejoice  that  I  have  at  last  found 
the  truth."  All  these  things  give  evidence  to  me  that  these  men  and 
women  have  been  converted  to  the  gospel  of  the  Master. 

I  do  not  desire  to  occupy  more  time.    I  rejoice  in  the  blessings  of 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


,fhe  gospel.  I  know,  as  I  know  I  live,  that  it  is  true,  that  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  the  only  name 
hy  which  salvation  may  come  to  his  children  here  upon  the  earth.  I 
know,  too,  as  I  know  that  T  live,  that  Joseph  was  the  instrument  in  the 
hands  of  'God  of  establishing  again  his  work  in,  the  earth.  He  was  the 
pioneer,  the  path-finder,  he  blazed  the  way  and  gave  to  the  children  of 
men  in  our  day  a  new  faith  in  God  and  in  (his  glorious  work.  I  know, 
too.  that  the  men  who  preside  in  Israel  today  are  prophets  of  God,  in- 
spired to  direct  the  destiny  of  Israel.  May  God  bless  us  all  that  we  may 
be  obedient  to  their  counsel,  and  that  we  may  have  power  to  reduce  to 
practice  in  our  lives  the  instructions'  that  are  given  to  us  by  our  file 
leaders,  that  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

i 

ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  President 
of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

I  think  we  have  been  very  fortunate  today  in  the  solos  that 
have  been  rendered.  I  was  especially  thrilled,  as  I  presume  you 
were,  by  the  first  solo  this  morning,  the  opening  line  of  which  was . 

"Man,  though  dead,  shall  arise  again." 

That  declaration  brought  to  my  mind  another  great  prophecy 
on  the  same  subject,  to  which  T  think  it  will  be  profitable  for  us  to 
pay  some  attention.  Permit  me  to  make  a  little  explanation  about 
it.  Israel,  both  in  ancient  times  and  in  modern  times,  were  a 
people  who  endured  great  sorrows,  both  as  a  nation  and  as  a  people. 
They  had  war,  famine,  pestilences  and  many  and  great  tribulations. 
In  the  days  of  Isaiah,  the  Prophet,  their  sorrows  seemed  to  reach 
a  climax,  and  this  great  Prophet  of  Israel  presented  their  sorrows 
to  the  Lord,  undoubtedly  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  some  word 
of  comfort,  some  hope  that  would  lighten  their  burdens  and  bring 
somewhat  of  joy  into  their  existence.  He  voiced  the  sorrows  of 
Israel  in  the  following  language: 

"Lord,  in  trouble  have  they  visited  thee,  they  pour  out  a  prayer  when  thy 
chastening  was  upon  them. 

"L'ke  as  a  woman  with  child,  that  draweth  near  the  time  of  her  delivery, 
is  in  pain,  and  crieth  out  in  her  pangs ;  so  have  wq  been  in  thy  sight,.  O  Lord ;" 

And  the  Lord  answered  the  Prophet  in  the  way  of  comfort  and 

said : 

"Thy  dead  men  shall  live,  together  with  my  dead  body  shall  they  arise. 
Awake  and  sing,  ye  that  dwell  in  dust :  for  thy  dew  is  as  the  dew  of  herbs,  and 
the  earth  shall  cast  out  the  dead."  (Isaiah.) 

This  was  the  word  of  comfort  unto  Israel,  the  renewal  of  the 
promise  of  immortality,  of  resurrection  unto  immortality.  I  pray 
you  be  reminded  here  who  it  is  speaking.  It  is  the  Jehovah  of  the 
Jews,  "the  Lord  God  Omnipotent."  Here  was  a  prophecy:  "Thy 
dead  men  shall  live,  together  with  my  dead  body  shall  they 
arise."    And  then  comes  the  song,  the  praise  and  thanksgiving: 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 


39 


"Awake  and  sing,  ye  that  dwell  in  dust;  and  the  earth  shall  cast 
out  her  dead !" 

Seven  hundred  years  passed  away,  and  then  came  the  fulfil- 
ment of  Isaiah's  prophecy: 

"And  behold  the  veil  of  the  temple  was  rent  in  twain  from  the 
top  to  the  bottom,  and  the  earth  did  quake  and  the  rocks  rent  and 
the  graves  were  opened,  and  many  of  the  Saints  which  slept  arose 
and  came  out  of  their  graves  after  his  [the  Christ'st]  resurrection, 
and  went  into  the  Holy  City,  and  appeared  unto  many."  (Matt.  27 :51-3.) 

*  "Thy  dead  men  shall  live,  together  with  my  dead  body  shall 
they  arise.  *  *  *  The  earth  shall  cast  out  her  dead."  Here 
we  have  the  prophecy  of  Isaiah  and  also  its  fulfilment.  And  yet 
we  are  living  in  a  day  when  those  who  are  supposed  to  name  the 
name  of  Christ  in  reverence  and  faith,  are  not  only  denying  the 
Deity  of  "the  Lord  God  Omnipotent,"  as  he  was  revealed  in  the 
flesh,  but  are  equally  strong  in  their  denial  of  this  great  fact  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  resurrection  from  the  dead.  Com- 
paratively few  men  in  the  religious  world,  believe  this  unique  doc- 
trine of  the  Christian  faith,  the  literal,  physical  resurrection  of  the 
dead.  Many  cults  and  philosophies  teach  that  in  some  way  or 
other  there  may  be  a  continuation  of  the  life  principle,  and  even  of 
personality  after  death;  but  it  was  reserved  as  the  peculiar  and 
glorious  doctrine  of  the  Christian  faith  to  teach  the  reality  of  the 
resurrection  from  the  dead,  the  reuniting  of  the  spirit  and  body 
after  death.  If  this  is  not  the  head  of  the  corner  in  the  building 
of  the  Christian  faith,  it  is  at  least  one  of  the  very  chief  founda- 
tion stones.  St.  Paul  teaches  us  that,  and  shows  us  that  if  there 
be  no  resurrection  of  the  dead,  then  the  Christian  faith  is  vain,  and 
is  all  a  mockery.    Let  me  point  that  out  to  you  a  little. 

In  his  discourse  upon  this  subject,  showing  how  fundamental 
this  principle  is  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  Paul  of  the  early 
Christian  writers  was  the  first  to  mass  the  testimony  extant  in 
his  day.  You  must  remember  that  the  gospels,  as  we  now  have 
them — Matthew,  Mark,  Luke  and  John — with  their  wonderful  testi- 
monies concerning  the  resurrection  of  the  dead,  were  not  in 
existence  at  the  time  that  the  epistles  were  being  written.  Not  the 
.gospels,  but  the  epistles,  are  the  first  Christian  documents  of  the 
meridian  dispensations,  and  I  think  it  quite  true  as  an  historical 
fact,  that  Paul  was  the  first  to  mass  the  testimony  on  this  subject. 
He  said  in  his  first  letter  to  the  Corinthians : 

"I  delivered  unto  you  first  of1'  all  that  which  I  also  received,  how  that 
Christ  died  for  our  sins  according  to  the  scriptures; 

"And  that  he  was  buried,  and  that  he  rose  again  the  third  day,  according 
to  the  scriptures : 

"And  that  he  was  seen  of  Cephas,  then  of  the  twelve; 

"After  that,  he  was  seen  of  above  five  hundred  brethren  at  once ;  of  whom 
the  greater  part  remain  unto  this  present,  but  some  are  fallen  asleep." 

That  is,  some  had  died ;  but  he  could  appeal  to  the  testimony  of 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


five  hundred  brethren  who  at  once  had  beheld  the  resurrected 
Christ. 

"After  that,  he  was  seen  of  James;  then  of  all  the  apostles. 

"And  last  of  all  he  was  seen  of  me  also,  as  of  one  born  out  of  due  time." 

And  now,  upon  this  state  of  facts  he  proceeds  to  reason,  and 
the  keenness  and  the  sureness  of  his  logic  cannot  be  questioned.  I 
pray  you  hearken  to  it : 

"Now  if  Christ  be  preached  that  he  rose  from  the  dead,  how  say  some 

among  you  that  there  is  no  resurrection  of  the  dead. 

"But  if  there  be  no  resurrection  of  the  dead,  then  is  Christ  not  risen: 
"And  if  Christ  be  not  risen,  then  is  our  preaching  vain,  and  your  faith  is 

also  vain. 

"Yea,  and  we  are  found  false  witnesses  of  God;  because  we  have  testified 
of  God  that  he  raised  up  Christ;  whom  he  raised  not  up,  if  so  be  that  the  dead 
rise  not." 

Could  you  escape  that  conclusion? 

"And  if  Christ  be  not  raised,  your  faith  is  vain;  ye  are  yet  in  your  sins. 
"Then  they  also  which  are  fallen  asleep  in  Christ  are  perished. 
"If  in  this  life  only  we  have  hope  in  Christ,  we  are  of  all  men  most 
miserable." 

And  is  not  that  just  as  true  now  as  it  was  when  Paul  conducted 
the  Saints  at  Corinth  through  this  process  of  reasoning  to  that 
awful  conclusion?  Down  into  the  very  depths  of  despair  does  his 
reasoning  bring  us,  if  it  so  be  that  Christ  did  not  actually  rise  from 
the  dead.  Behold,  how  hopeless,  how  vain  is  the  faith  of  men  in 
Christ  if  they  eliminate  from  the  scheme  of  his  religion  the  doc- 
trine of  physical  resurrection  from  the  dead.  Thank  God  the  apos- 
tles did  not  leave  either  the  Corinthian  Saints  or  those  of  us  who 
come  after  them  in  that  slough  of  despond  to  which  he  had  con- 
ducted them ;  but  having  brought  us  down  to  where  we  may  see 
into  the  very  depth  of  despair,  now  he  proceeds  to  build  upon  the 
opposite  supposition — no,  not  "supposition,"  but  the  truth ;  namely, 
that  Christ  has  risen  from  the  dead.    Hearken  to  him : 

"But  now  Christ  is  risen  from  the  dead  and  become  the  firstfruits  of  them 
that  slept. 

"For  since  by  man  came  death,  by  man  came  also  the  resurrection  of  the 
dead. 

"For  as  in  Adam  all  die,  even  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be  made  alive. 

"But  every  man  in  his  own  order ;  Christ  the  firstfruits ;  afterward  they  that 
are  Christ's  at  his  coming. 

"Then  cometh  the  end,  when  he  shall  have  delivered  up  the  kingdom  to  God, 
even  the  Father;  when  he  shall  have  put  down  all  rule  and  all  authority  and 
power. 

"For  he  must  reign,  till  he  hath  put  all  enemies  under  his  feet. 
"The  last  enemy  that  shall  be  destroyed  is  death." 

That  is  the  Christian  faith;  and  yet  Christians  of  today,  in 
large  part,  do  not  believe  it ;  a  few  do,  but  only  a  very  few.  And 
believe  me,  Latter-day  Saints,  that  among  the  many  things  required 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  one  of  the 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 


41 


many  duties  laid  upon  us  in  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  in  this 
dispensation,  is  this  responsibility  of  being  God's  witnesses  in 
the  world  for  the  truth,  for  the  reality  of  this  doctrine  of  the 
resurrection  from  the  dead.  Not  in  the  survival  of  some  essence 
or  spiritual  principle,  but  in  a  real  life  hereafter,  in  which  spirit  and 
body  shall  be  reunited,  and,  as  the  Christ  lived  physically  after  he 
rose  from  the  dead,  and  was  a  physical  as  well  as  a  spiritual  per- 
sonage, so  too  shall  men  now  dead  become :  "Your  dead  men  shall 
live  again,  together  with  my  dead  body,"  sayeth  God,  "they  shall 
arise  from  their  graves."  That  is  the  word  of  God,  and  I  care  not 
for  the  philosophies  of  men,  nor  their  attempt  to  tell  us  that  it  is 
a  matter  of  impossibility  for  them  to  be  resurrected.  If  the  mate- 
rial particles  of  this  body  that  we  call  ours  shall  be  preserved  as 
peculiar  to  the  spirit  that  has  laboriously  gathered  that  body 
through  life  and  made  it  the  garment  of  our  spirits,  I  care  not  what 
becomes  of  those  particles  so  far  as  our  sight  and  touch  may  be 
concerned.  I  place  my  faith  in  the  word  and  promise  of  Jehovah 
before  he  tabernacled  in  the  flesh,  that  men  should  arise  from  the 
dead ;  that  together  with  his  dead  body  they  should  arise  and  live ; 
and  with  all  my  heart  I  believe  God  competent  and  able  to  fulfil 
his  promises.  "Though  a  man  be  dead,  he  shall  arise  again."  And 
as  a  poet  has  said,  "Eternal  form  shall  still  divide  eternal  mind 
from  all  beside,"  and  we  shall  know  each  other,  and  have  asso- 
ciations that  shall,  when  purified,  be  holy,  and  shall  minister  to 
our  joy  through  all  the  ages  that  shall  endure.  That  is  my  faith, 
in  this  great  doctrine  of  the  Christian  faith,  emphasized  in  this  new 
dispensation  of  the  gospel  whereof  we  are  heralds  and  witnesses. 
This  is  my  testimony,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "High  on  the  mountain  top," 
and  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Levi  S.  Udall,  president  of  the  St. 
Johns  stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday  morning  at  10  o'clock. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  SESSION 

Promptly  at  10  o'clock  on  Sunday  morning,  April  5,  1925,  Presi- 
dent Heber  J.  Grant  opened  the  meeting  by  announcing  that  the  choir 
and  congregation  would  sing,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  pro- 
phet." 

After  the  singing,  Elder  Junius  F.  Wells,  assistant  Church  his- 
torian, offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  hymn,  "An  angel  from  on  high"  was  sung  by  Hyrum  J. 
Christiansen  and  Edna  Gotberg,  with  the  choir. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

As  I  stand  before  this  vast  congregation  this  morning,  and  con- 
template my  early  experiences  upon  this  block,  when  the  Latter-day 
Saints  were  few  in  number,  with  poor  shelter,  and  very  inferior  ac- 
comodations compared  with  that  which  we  at  present  enjoy,  I  am  over- 
whelmed with  gratitude  as  I  think  of  that  which  the  Lord  has  accom- 
plished, for  I  see  in  this  gathering  the  fulfilment  of  his  word,  and  the 
words  of  his  servants,  the  prophets  uttered  more  than  four-thousand 
years  ago,  and  come  to  understand  my  own  littleness,  my  own  inability, 
my  utter  dependence  upon  the  Lord  my  God,  for  without  his  aid  we  are 
helpless,  he  has  done  it.  It  has  not  been  the  work  of  man,  although 
devoted  men  and  women  have  been  the  instruments  in  the  hands  of  the 
Lord  in  the  accomplishment  of  that  which  we  see  before  us  this  morn- 
ing. Therefore,  I  give  praise  and  glory  and  honor  to  God  for  all  that 
I  am,  all  that  I  hope  to  be,  all  that  we  are,  all  the  we  can  hope  to  be, 
for  our  dependence  is  upon  him. 

DO   YOU   BELIEVE   THE  PROPHETS? 

I  desire,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  a  preface  to  the  remarks 
which  I  make,  to  read  briefly  from  the  second  general  epistle  of  the 
Apostle  Peter  to  the  Church,  as  follows : 

"We  have  also  a  more  sure  word  of  prophecy,  whereunto  ye  do  well  that 
ye  take  heed,  as  unto  a  light  that  shineth  in  a  dark  place,  until  the  day  dawn, 
and  the  day  star  arise  in  your  hearts.  Knowing  this  first,  that  no>  prophecy 
of  the  scripture  is  of  any  private  interpretation.  For  the  prophecy  came  not  in 
old  time  by  the  will  of  man,  but  holy  men  of  God  spoke  as  they  were  moved 
by  the  Holy  Ghost." 

At  the  time  when  the  Apostle  Paul  was  arraigned  before  King 
Agrippa,  to  answer  to  charges  which  had  been  preferred  against  him, 
after  recounting  the  circumstances  of  his  conversion,  he  turned  to 
Agrippa  and  said: 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


43 


"King  Agrippa,  believest  thou  the  prophets?  I  know  that  thou  believest." 
Then  Agrippa  said  to  Paul,  "almost  thou  persuadest  me  to  be  a  Christian."  And 
Paul  said :  "I  would  to  God  that  net  only  thou,  but  that  all  who  hear  me  this 
day,  were  both  almost,  and  altogether  such  as  I  am,  save  these  bonds." 

I  desire  to  paraphrase  these  words  as  follows:  My  brethren  and 
sisters,  do  you  believe  the  words  of  the  prophets  as  they  have  been 
handed  down  to  us  through  the  holy  Scripture?  1  know  that  you 
believe,  and  I  would  that  all  of  you  understood  them,  and  compre- 
hended their  importance  and  application  to  us,  not  as  I  understand  them, 
but  more  fully  and  comprehensively. 

NEED  OF  KNOWING  THE  HAND-DEALINGS  OF  GOD  WITH  MAN 

To  properly  comprehend  the  great  plan  of  human  redemption,  de- 
signed by  the  Father  for  the  blessing  of  his  children,  it  is  necessary 
that  we  be  familiar  with  his  hand-dealings  with  the  people  of  the 
world,  from  the  beginning  of  time,  as  we  count  it,  until  the  present. 
It  is  not  sufficient  that  we  familiarize  ourselves  alone  with  the  dispen- 
sation in  which  we  live,  important  though  that  be.  We  must  know 
something  of  the  past,  as  history  has  written  it,  the  present  as  we  see 
and  understand  it,  and  the  future  as  the  prophets  have  declared  it. 
Without  this  grouping  of  the  past,  the  present  and  the  future,  our 
vision  will  be  restricted,  and  incomplete. 

LOOKING  BACK  FOUR  THOUSAND  YEARS 

I  desire,  my  brethren  and  sisters,,  to  take  you  back  more  than 
four  thousand  years,  to  a  period  of  time  when- an  event  occurred 
which  was  of  transcendent  importance  to  us,  when  a  promise  was  made 
by  the  Lord  which  has  not  yet  been  fully  fulfilled,  but  toward  the  ful- 
filment of  which  we  are  rapidly  moving. 

THE  PROMISE  TO  ABRAHAM 

It  was  about  122  years  after  the  deluge  that  the  Lord  called  Abram. 
who  at  that  time  was  seventy-five  years  of  age,  and  a  direct  descendant 
of  Shem,  the  chosen  son  of  Noah,  commanding  him  to  go  out  from  the 
country  of  his  kindred,  and  from  his  father's  house,  into  a  land  which 
he  promised  to  give  him,  and  to  his  posterity  after  him,  for  an  ever- 
lasting inheritance.  In  obedience  to  the  word  of  the  Lord,  Abram 
went  from  Haran,  to  which  place  he  had  been  taken  by  his  father,  from 
Ur  of  Chaldea,  and  pitched  his  tent  in  the  land  of  Canaan.  Twenty- 
four  years  later  the  Lord  spoke  to  him  as  follows: 

"And  when  Abram  was  ninety  years  old  and  nine,  the  Lord  appeared  to 
Abram,  and  said  unto  him:  l  am  the  Almighty  God.  Walk  before  me,  and  be 
thou  perfect. 

"And  I  will  make  my  covenant  between  me  and  thee,  and  will  multiply 

thee  exceedingly. 

"And  Abram  fell  on  his  face,  and  God  talked  with  him,  saying, 

"As  for  pie,  behold  my  covenant  is  with  thee,  and  thou  shalt  be  a  father  of 

many  nations. 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Neither  shall  thy  name  he  called  any  more  Ahram,  hut  thy  name  shall  be 
Abraham,  for  a  father  of  many  nations  I  have  made  thee. 

"And  I  will  make  thee  exceeding  fruitful,  and  I  will  make  nations  of  thee, 
and  kings  shall  come  out  of  thee." 

god's  promise  never  fails 

We  have  here  a  promise  made  by  the  Lord,  which,  judged  by  hu- 
man standards,  was  impossible  of  fulfilment.  Abraham  was  an  hun- 
dred years  old,  and  his  wife,  Sarah,  ninety  years  of  age,  a  supposedly 
barren  woman,  but  the  Lord  had  spoken,  and  his  word  never  fails. 
Isaac  was  born,  and  the  Lord  repeated  to  him  the  promise  made  to  his 
father.  Isaac  in  turn,  became  the  father  of  Jacob,  through  whose 
lineage,  and  the  twelve  sons  who  were  born  to  him,  the  foundation 
was  laid  for  the  twelve  tribes  of  Israel,  the  progenitors  of  a  mighty 
nation. 

THE  HISTORY  OF  ISRAEL  AND  THE  STORY  OF  JOSEPH 

To  follow  the  history  of  this  interesting  people  from  that  time  to 
the  present  in  detail,  would  be  impossible  in  the  short  time  which  is  at 
my  disposal.  You  who  are  familiar  with  the  story  know  that  twelve 
sons  were  born  to  Jacob,  six  of  whom,  Reuben,  Simeon,  Levi,  Judah, 
Issachar  and  Zebulon,  were  the  sons  of  Leah,  his  first  wife.  Joseph 
and  Benjamin  the  sons  of  Rachel ;  Dan  and  Naphtali  the  sons  of  Bilha, 
the  handmaid  of  Rachel;  and  Gad  and  Asher,  the  sons  of  Zilpah,  the 
handmaid  of  Leah. 

You  are  familiar  with  the  story  of  Joseph,  who  was  sold  by  his 
brethren  to  passing  Ishmaelites  who  carried  the  boy  into  Egypt,  and 
sold  him  to  Potiphar,  a  captain  of  the  king's  guard.  How  he  was 
cast  into  prison,  and  finally  released  and  made  the  vice-regent  of  the 
king,  the  most  powerful  personage,  except  the  Pharaoh,  in  all  Egypt. 
You  know  how  famine  came  to  the  land,  which  made  it  necessary  for 
Jacob  to  send  his  sons  to  Egypt  to  procure  food,  where  these  men 
discovered  that  the  governor  of  all  the  land  was  their  younger  brother, 
whom  they  had  sold  into  slavery,  and  after  returning  to  Canaan  brought 
down  their  father  and  all  of  their  possessions  into  Egypt,  and  were 
established  in  the  land  of  Goshen,  where  they  became  a  numerous  people. 

But  Egypt  was  not  the  heritage  of  Israel.  Naturally  they  would 
have  remained  there  and  been  absorbed  by  the  Egyptians,  but  the  Lord 
had  decreed  otherwise.  He  had  given  them  Palestine  as  the  land  of 
their  inheritance,  and  their  return  to  that  land  was  inevitable,  even 
though  it  were  against  their  will. 

After  remaining  in  Egypt  more  than  two  hundred  years,  some 
chronologists  say  four  hundred,  the  Lord  delivered  them  from  the 
bondage  of  the  Egyptians,  through  his  servant  Moses,  and  under  the 
leadership  of  Joshua  they  again  entered  and  took  possession  of  the 
promised  land,  a  great  people.  From  the  seventy  souls  who  went  into 
Goshen  with  Jacob,  there  went  out  603,500  men  more  than  twenty  years 


1 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IV INS 


45 


of  age,  men  able  to  bear  arms,  probably  not  less  than  three  millions 
ot  people  in  all. 

The  history  of  the  Israelitish  people,  from  the  time  they  crossed 
the  river  Jordan,  under  Joshua,  and  subdued  Jericho,  until  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  kingdom,  under  Saul,  about  four  hundred  years,  is 
one  of  almost  constant  war  and  contention,  which  resulted  in  the 
subjugation  of  neighboring  kingdoms  and  peoples,  until  Israel,  under 
David,  became  the  possessors  of  Palestine  from  Dan  on  the  north  to 
Beersheba  on  the  south. 

It  was  under  Solomon  that  Israel  reached  the  zenith  of  her  power 
and  glory  as  a  nation  and  kingdom.  One  hundred  and  twenty  years  had 
elapsed  from  the  establishment  of  the  kingdom,  under  Saul,  until  the 
division  of  the  nation,  which  occured  during  the  reign  of  Rehoboam,  the 
son  of  Solomon.  Five  hundred  years  in  all,  since  the  return  from 
Egypt.  Years  of  conflict  among  themselves  and  with  other  peoples, 
years  of  faithlesness  on  the  part  of  Israel,  and  suffering  because  of 
their  transgression  and  indifference  to  the  words  of  the  prophets  whom 
the  Lord  sent  among  them  to  call  them  back  into  the  old  way  of  right- 
eousness, but  they  said,  we  will  not  walk  therein.  When  the  watchmen 
whom  the  Lord  placed  on  the  towers  of  Zion  sounded  the  warning  trum- 
pet they  said,  we  will  not  hearken. 

THE  DAY  OF  THE  PROPHETS 

It  was  the  day  of  Isaiah,  Jeremiah,  Ezekiel  and  others  of  the 
prophets  of  old,  through  whom  the  Lord  strove  to  keep  the  people 
in  the  path  of  righteousness  and  justice,  the  only  road  that  leads  to 
ultimate  success,  for  final  truimph  has  never  been  achieved  and  never 
will  be,  by  a  nation  which  denies  the  living  God,  and  departs  from  the 
path  which  he  has  marked  out  for  us  to  follow.  In  their  pride  of 
conquest  Israel  saw,  in  the  glory  which  had  come  to  them,  fulfilment  of 
the  promise  made  by  the  Lord  to  Abraham.  He  had  given  them  the 
land  of  promise,  from  north  to  south,  and  east  to  west,  they  were  in 
possession  of  it,  and  in  their  pride  believed  themselves  strong  enough 
to  hold  it  forever. 

THE  DISSOLUTION   OF  ISRAEL 

1  The  dissolution  of  Israel,  as  a  great  nation,  commenced  when  the 
ten  tribes,  under  the  leadership  of  Jeroboam,  the  son  of  Nebat,  broke 
away  from  Judah  and  Benjamin  and  established  the  kingdom  of  Israel, 
with  Samaria  as  its  capital  city,  while  Judah  and  Benjamin,  with  a 
part,  at  least,  of  the  tribes  of  Simeon  and  Dan  retained  Jerusalem  as  the 
capital  city  of  their  kingdom. 

Both  nations  rapidly  relapsed  into  idolatry,  Israel  to  the  worship  of 
the  golden  calf  of  the  Egyptians,  while  Judah,  to  a  great  extent,  turned 
to  the  worship  of  Bel  of  the  Babylonians,  and  the  idolatrous  gods  of  the 
nations  with  which  they  were  surrounded. 

In  this  condition  Israel  continued  until  about  sevtn  hundred  years 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


before  Christ,  when  the  Assyrian  armies,  under  Sennacherib  over- 
came the  Israelitish  armies,  captured  Samaria,  carried  the  Ten  Tribes 
captive  into  Assyria,  at  the  head  of  the  Euphrates,  and  brought  people 
from  their  own  country  whom  they  established  in  the  cities  of  northern 
Palestine,  and  the  identity  of  Israel  as  a  distinct  people,  was  lost  to  the 
world. 

Judah  continued  to  maintain  a  semblance  of  power  for  more  than 
one  hundred  years  after  the  fall  of  Israel,  when  they  suffered  the  same 
fate.  Judea  was  overrun  by  the  Babylonian  armies  under  Nebuchad- 
nezzar, Jerusalem  taken,  the  temple  desecrated,  and  despoiled  of  its 
wealth,  and  Judah  carried  captive  into  Babylon,  as  their  brethren  had 
been  carried  into  Assyria. 

THE   CHRISTIAN   ERA  USHERED  IN 

This  hasty  and  imperfect  review  brings  us  to  the  ushering  in  of  the 
Christian  Era. 

After  the  fall  of  the  Babylonian  kingdom  to  the  armies  of  Media 
and  Persia.  King  Cyrus  permitted  the  Jews  to  return  from  Babylon 
to  Palestine  and  rebuild  their  city  and  temple  which  had  been  destroyed 
by  Nebuchadnezzar.  With  great  enthusiasm  this  work  was  under- 
taken, and  it  appears  that  the  Jews  who  returned  from  the  Babylonian 
captivity  showed  greater  faith  in  the  God  of  their  fathers  than  had 
been  manifested  before  they  were  carried  way. 

THE  FATE  OF  THE  HOUSE  OF  ISRAEL  FORETOLD 

The  fate  which  befell  the  House  of  Israel  had  been  plainly  out- 
lined by  the  prophets  whom  the  Lord  had  sent  to  warn  them  that  the 
penalty  of  disobedience  would  be  the  dissolution  of  the  nation,  and 
that  they  would  be  taken  from  the  land  of  their  inheritance,  and  scattered 
among  the  strange  and  unbelieving  nations  of  the  world.  A  final  ful- 
filment of  this  prophecy  occured  when,  about  one  hundred  years  after 
the  birth  of  the  Redeemer,  Judea  was  trodden  down  by  the  Roman 
armies  under  Vespasian  and  his  son  Titus,  Jerusalem  taken,  the  temple 
destroyed,  and  the  Jews  scattered  among  the  nations  of  the  world, 
where  they  have  remained  until  the  present  day. 

The  prophets  Zechariah  and  Ezekiel  had  declared  that  the  shep- 
herds would  neglect  the  flock,  and  that  the  sheep  would  be  scattered, 
and  become  the  prey  of  strange  nations.  To  all  human  appearance, 
judged  by  every  law  of  human  reasoning,  the  promise  made  to  Abra- 
ham had  failed,  he  had  been  promised  that  Palestine  should  be  the 
everlasting  heritage  of  his  children,  and  now  they  held  dominion  over 
no  part  of  it.  The  end,  it  appeared,  had  come,  the  words  of  the  prophets 
had  been  literally  fulfilled,  the  promise  made  by  the  Lord  if  ever  to 
be  realized  was  still  future. 

ISRAEL  NOT  FORSAKEN  OF  THE  LORD  SHALL  BE  GATHERED  AGAIN 

Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  the  Israelitish  people  had  been  scat- 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


47 


tered  and  lost  to  the  world,  to  become  the  prey  of  strange  and  un- 
believing nations,  the  Lord  had  not  forgotten  nor  forsaken  them.  He 
remembered  the  covenant  made  with  their  father  Abraham,  and  de- 
creed that  it  should  be  verified.  The  prophet  Jeremiah,  six  hundred 
years  before  the  birth  of  Christ,  speaking  upon  this  subject,  declared 
that  the  Lord  who  scattered  Israel  would  gather  him  again,  in  these 
words : 

"Hear  the  word  of  the  Lord,  O  ye  nations,  and  declare  it  in  the  isles  afar 
off,  and  say :  He  that  scattered  Israel  will  gather  him,  and  keep  him,  as  a  shep- 
herd does  his  flock. 

"For  the  Lord'hath  redeemed  Jacob  and  ransomed  him  from  the  hand  of 
him  who  was  stronger  than  he. 

"Therefore  they  shall  come  and  sing  in  the  height  of  Zion,  and  shall  flow 
together  to  the  goodness  of  the  Lord,  for  wheat  and  for  wine  and  for  oil  and  for 
the  young  of  the  flock  and  of  the  herd;  and  their  soul  shall  be  as  a  watered 
garden  and  they  shall  not  sorrow  any  more." 

Isaiah,  seven  hundred  years  before  the  birth  of  the  Redeemer, 
referring  to  this  same  matter,  said : 

"And  in  that  day  [be  spoke  cf  the  Latter-days]  there  shall  be  a  root  of 
Jesse  which  shall  stand  for  an  ensign  of  the  people;  to  it  shall  the  Gentiles 
seek  and  his  rest  shall  be  glorious.  And.it  shall  come  to  pass  in  that  day  the 
Lord  shall  set  his  hand  again  the  second  time  to  recover  the  remnant  of  his 
people  who  shall  be  left  from  Assyria  and  from  Egypt  and  from  Pathros  and 
from  Cush  and  from  Elam  and  from  Shinar  and  from  Hamath  and  from  the 
islands  of  the  sea. 

"And  he  shall  set  up  an  ensign  for  the  nations,  and  assemble  the  outcasts 
of  Israel,  and  gather  together  the  dispersed  of  Judah,  from  the  four  corners 
of  the  earth. 

"The  envy  also  of  Ephraim  shall  depart  and  the  adversaries  of  Judah 
shall  be  cut  off:  Ephraim  shall  not  envy  Judah,  and  Judah  shall  not  vex 
Ephraim." 

CHRIST*  S  PROMISE  TO  ISRAEL  PRIOR  TO  HIS  CRUCIFIXION 

During  his  ministry  among  the  Nephite  people,  upon  this  conti- 
nent, after  his  resurrection  from  the  dead,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
ref ering  to  this  matter  used  the  following  language : 

"I  will  remember  the  covenant  which  1  have  made  with  my  people ;  and  I 
have  covenanted  with  them  that  I  would  gather  them  together  in  my  own 
due  time,  that  I  would  give  unto  them  again  the  land  of  their  fathers  for  their 
inheritance,  which  is  the  land  of  Jerusalem,  which  is  the  promised  land  unto 
them  forever,  saith  the  Father. 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  the  time  cometh  when  the  fulness  of  my 
gospel  shall  be  preached  among  them  ;  and  they  shall  believe  in  me,  that  I  am 
Jesus  Christ,  the  son  of  God,  and  shall  pray  unto  the  Father  in  my  name." 

This  entire  chapter  treats  the  subject  to  which  I  am  referring,  but 
I  need  not  read  further  from  it. 

More  definite  and  direct  on  this  subject  than  any  other,  and  to 
which  I  desire  more  particularly  to  call  your  attention,  are  the  words 
of  the  Redeemer,  just  prior  to  his  crucifixion.    He  called  his  disciples 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


together,  and  in  answer  to  questions  which  they  propounded,  spoke 
as  follows: 

"And  now  ye  behold  this  temple  which  is  in  Jerusalem  which  ye  call  the 
House  of  God,  and  your  enemies  say  that  this  house  shall  never  fall,  but  verily 
I  say  unto  you  that  desolation  shall  come  upon  this  generation  as  a  thief  in  the 
night,  and  this  people  shall  be  destroyed,  and  scattered  among  all  nations. 

"And  this  temple  which  ye  now  see  shall  be  threwn  down,  that  there  shall 
not  be  left  one  stone  upon  another." 

This  was  literally  fulfilled  at  the  time  of  the  taking  of  Jerusalem 
by  Titus,  the  son  of  Vespasian. 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  this  generation  of  Jews  shall  not  pass  away 
until  every  desolation  which  I  have  told  you  concerning  them  shall  come  to  pass. 

"Ye  say  that  ye  know  that  the  end  of  the  world  cometh,  ye  say  also  that  ye 
know  that  the  heavens  and  the  earth  shall  pass  away,  and  in  this  ye  say  truly, 
for  so  it  is,  but  these  things  which  I  have  told  you  shall  not  pass  away  until 
all  shall  be  fulfilled. 

"And  this  have  I  told  you  concerning  Jerusalem,  and  when  that  day  shall 
come  shall  a  remnant  be  scattered  among  all  nations ;  but  they  shall  be  gathered 
again ;  but  they  shall  remain  until  the  times  of  the  Gentiles  be  fulfilled. 

"And  in  that  day  shall  be  heard  wars  and  rumors  of  wars,  and  the  whole 
earth  shall  be  in  commotion,  and  men's  hearts  shall  fail  them,  and  they  shall 
say  that  Christ  delayed  his  coming  until  the  end  of  the  earth. 

"And  the  love  of  man  shall  wax  cold,  and  iniquity  shall  abound.  And  when 
the  times  of  the  Gentiles  is  come  in;  a  light  shall  break  forth  among  them 
that  sit  in  darkness,  and  it  shall  be  the  fulness  of  my  gospel;  but  they 
perceive  not  the  light,  and  receive  it  not,  but  turn  their  hearts  from  me,  because 
of  the  precepts  of  men. 

"And  in  that  generation  shall  the  times  of  the  Gentiles  be  fulfilled." 

That  the  final  destiny  of  Judah  was  different  to  that  of  Joseph  is 
plainly  indicated  by  the  blessing  pronounced  upon  him  by  his  father. 

THE  BLESSINGS  OF  JACOB 

Just  before  his  death,  Jacob  called  his  sons  to  him  and  gave  to 
each  his  last  blessing.  Upon  Judah  he  pronounced  the  blessing  of 
leadership,  declaring  that  the  scepter  of  power  should  not  depart  from 
his  house  until  the  coming  of  Shiloh,  to  whom  the  Jews  looked  forward 
as  their  final  king. 

When  he  laid  his  hands  upon  the  head  of  Joseph,  he  said : 

"Joseph  is  a  fruitful  bough,  even  a  fruitful  bough  by  a  well,  whose  branches 
run  over  the  wall.  The  blessings  of  thy  father  have  prevailed  above  the  bless- 
ings of  my  progenitors,  unto  the  utmost  bounds  of  the  everlasting  hills.  They 
shall  be  upon  the  head  of  him  who  was  separated  from  his  brethren." 

The  promise  made  to  Abraham  gave  to  him  and  his  posterity  after 
him  the  land  of  Canaan,  which  was  to  be  the  land  of  his  inheritance, 
and  this  promise  was  renewed  to  Isaac,  and  to  Jacob,  and  the  Lord, 
through  the  latter,  enlarged  this  promise  to  Joseph,  his  heritage,  like 
a  fruitful  bough  by  a  well,  whose  roots  are  well  watered,  ran  over  the 
wall,  and  extended  beyond  the  heritage  of  Judah  to  the  utmost  bounds 
of  the  Everlasting  Hills,  to  America,  where  the  Zion  of  our  God  is 
to  be  established. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


49 


THE  DESTINY  OF  ISRAEL  PLAINLY  INDICATED 

The  scripture  which  I  have  just  read  indicates  plainly  the  un- 
changable  decree  of  the  Lord  regarding  the  destiny  of  the  Israelitish 
people.  Scattered  and  lost  to  the  world  as  they  have  been,  they  are  not 
lost  to  the  Lord,  nor  has  he  forgotten  the  covenant  which  he  made 
with  their  father  Abraham,  and  which  was  reconfirmed  upon  the  heads 
of  Isaac  and  Jacob. 

THE  WORK  BEGUN  IN  THIS  DISPENSATION 

With  the  opening  of  the  present  gospel  dispensation,  now  nearly 
one  hundred  years  ago,  the  Lord  commenced  the  work  which  is  destined 
to  result  in  the  establishment  of  Ephraim,  and  other  descendants  of 
Joseph  upon  this  continent,  where  the  Zion  of  our  God  is  to  be  estab- 
lished, and  the  restoration  of  the  Jews  to  Palestine,  the  land  of  their 
fathers. 

With  the  organization  of  the  Church  the  Lord  made  plain  the  duty 
of  its  members.  Men  holding  the  restored  priesthood,  with  its  keys 
of  authority,  were  sent  into  every  country  where  they  were  permitted  to 
go,  proclaiming  the  opening  of  a  new  gospel  dispensation,  calling  the 
people  to  repentance,  and  bearing  witness  that  the  mountain  of  the 
Lord's  House  was  to  be  established  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains,  and  to 
be  exalted  above  the  hills,  where  we  are  today  and  that  people  from 
all  nations  should  flow  unto  it,  in  order  that  they  might  be  taught  the 
way  of  the  Lord,  and  learn  to  walk  in  his  paths. 

THE  JEWS  TO  BE  RESTORED  TO  THE  PROMISED  LAND 

The  promise  made  by  the  Lord,  regarding  the  restoration  of  the 
Jews  to  the  Promised  Land  was  not  overlooked.  At  the  conference  of 
the  Church,  held  on  the  6th  of  April,  1840,  now  eighty-five  years  ago, 
Orson  Hyde,  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  Tohn  E. 
Page  were  called  to  go  on  a  special  mission  to  Jerusalem,  for  the 
purpose  of  dedicating  the  Holy  Land  for  the  latter-day  gathering  of 
the  remnant  of  Judah.  John  E.  Page  failed  in  the  accomplishment  of 
the  mission  which  was  assigned  him,  .but  Orson  Hyde,  after  surmount- 
ing-many  difficulties,  a  year  and  a  half  later  knelt  upon  the  Mount  of 
Olives,  and  dedicated  Palestine  as  the  gathering  place  of  the  scattered 
remnant  of  Judah,  and  this  servant  of  the  Lord,  moved  upon  by  the 
spirit  of  prophecy,  declared  that  inasmuch  as  it  was  by  political  power 
and  influence  that  the  Jews  were  scattered,  it  would  be  by  political 
power  and  influence  that  they  would  be  gathered,  and  that  England 
was  destined  to  be  the  nation  which  would  take  the  leading  part  in  the 
work  of  restoration. 

More  than  seventy-five  years  had  elapsed,  almost  a  generation, 
as  the  scripture  counts  time,  since  the  light  of  the  gospel  had 
broken  forth  among  those  who  sat  in  darkness,  since  Orson  Hyde  dedi- 
cated the  land  of  Palestine  for  the  latter-day  gathering  of  scattered 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Tudah,  and  the  Holy  Land  still  remained  under  the  dominion  of  the 
Turk,  the  star  and  crescent  still  floated  from  the  minaret  of  a  Moslem 
Mosque,  where  the  temple  of  Solomon  once  stood. 

THE  GREAT  WAR  AND  BRITISH  PROTECTORATE 

Then  came  the  great  world  war,  and  final  peace  at  Versailles  when 
Great  Britain  was  given  the  responsibility  of  establishing  and  maintain- 
ing a  protectorate  over  the  Holy  Land.  The  British  armies,  it  is  true, 
had  already  occupied  Jerusalem,  but  it  was  with  the  signing  of  the 
treaty  of  Versailles  that  the  first  definite  step  was  taken  looking  to  the 
fulfilment  of  the  words  of  the  prophets,  who  had  declared  the  re- 
demption of  Israel,  and  the  restoration  of  Judah  to  the  lands  of  their 
fathers,  thousands  of  years  ago. 

INTEREST  OF  THE  JEWS  IN  THE  RESTORATION 

The  interest  manifested  by  the  Jewish  people  in  the  restoration  of 
Palestine  has  few  parallels  in  the  history  of  the  world.  One  is  re- 
minded of  the  zeal  which  their  fathers  showed  as  they  returned  from 
Babylon  to  Jerusalem  to  rebuild  their  city  and  temple,  when  women 
as  well  as  men  worked,  and  gave  lavishly  of  their  most  cherished  pos- 
sessions that  the  task  might  be  accomplished. 

Jewish  societies  have  been  organized  in  various  parts  of  the  world, 
having  for  their  purpose  the  creation  of  a  publicly  recognized,  legally 
acquired  home  in  Palestine,  and  the  building  up  of  the  Jewish  home- 
land in  the  Canaan  of  their  fathers.  Many  millions  of  dollars  have 
been  subscribed  by  Jews  throughout  the  world,  to  be  used  in  the  pur- 
chase of  land,  and  the  development  of  the  dormant  resources  of  the 
country. 

WHAT  HAS  BEEN  ACCOMPLISHED 

From  statistics  which  I  have  gathered,  I  wish  to  read  the  following, 
which  shows  a  part  only  of  that  which  has  been  accomplished : 

Immigration 

At  the  close  of  the  war  there  were  about  fifty  thousand  Jews  in 
Palestine.  At  the  close  of  1924  this  number  had  been  doubled,  and 
latest  reports?  tell  us  that  Tews  are  pouring  into  Palestine  at  the  rate 
of  more  than  two  thousand  per  month. 

Agriculture 

At  the  close  of  the  war  not  more  than  one  hundred  thousand  acre3 
of  land  were  in  Jewish  ownership  in  Palestine ;  since  then  through  the 
Zionist  movement  as  much  more  has  been  added  by  purchase.  Swamps 
have  been  drained,  sand  dunes  leveled,  and  agricultural  exports,  which 
before  the  war  were  practically  nothing,  now  amount  to  more  than 
twenty- five  millions  of  dollars  annually.  Eighty-nine  Jewish  agri- 
cultural colonies  are  being  developed. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W .  IV INS 


51 


Schools 

One  hundred  and  twenty  schools  have  been  established,  as  follows : 
39  kindergartens,  65  elementary  schools,  5  secondary  schools,  3  teachers 
training  colleges,  4  technical  schools,  and  5  manual  training  schools. 
These  schools  have  497  teachers,  and  a  large  number  of  students  in 
attendance.  Besides  these  schools  several  agricultural  training  schools 
have  been  established,  and  a  University  at  Jerusalem  which  was  dedi- 
cated last  week  by  Lord  Balfour,  has  been  established  on  a  site  which 
cost  sixty  thousand  dollars. 

Large  sums  have  been  expended  in  the  construction  of  roads, 
hydro-electric  power  plants  are  in  course  of  construction,  hospitals  have 
been  erected,  and  provision  made  for  the  care  of  the  indigent  and  un- 
fortunate. According  to  the  reports  which  have"  been  rendered  there 
was  expended  from  the  first  of  April,  1921,  to  June  30,  1924,  more 
than  thirty  five  millions  of  dollars  in  the  development  of  this  under- 
taking. 

A  movement  such  as  this  cannot  fail  to  excite  the  interest  and 
admiration  of  the  civilized  world.  The  Hebrew  people  have  suffered 
during  the  past  centuries  as  no-  other  people  have  ever  suffered,  so 
far  as  my  study  and  observation  entitle  me  to  judge.  They  have  been 
scattered  among  strangers,  where  they  have  been  denied  the  right  of 
citizenship,  and  participation  in  the  commercial  and  industrial  activities 
of  the  people.  They  have  been  ruthlessly  robbed  of  that  which  they  have 
honestly  acquired  by  the  labor  of  their  own  hands.  Worse  than  all, 
pogroms  have  been  declared  against  them,  when  the  protection  of  the 
law  has  been  officially  declared  to  be  inoperative,  and  permission  given 
to  wicked  men  and  women  to  despoil  them  of  their  goods,  and  even 
deprive  them  of  life  itself. 

THE  MOVEMENT  MUST  ELICIT  PRAISE  AND  SYMPATHY 

The  wonder  is  that  they  have  survived  and  maintained  their  nation- 
ality during  all  these  centuries  of  affliction,  and  now  that  they  are  under- 
taking to  establish  a  home  in  the  land  of  their  fathers,  where  they  may 
live  in  peace,  and  be  a  blessing  to  the  non-progressive  people  who  have 
so  long  dominated  it,  they  certainly  must  elicit  the  praise  and  sympathy 
of  all  right  thinking  people. 

THE  HAND  OF  THE  LORD  IN  IT 

From  a  human  point  of  view  it  is  a  movement  of  great  interest, 
but  to  me  the  one  outstanding  feature  is  the  manifest  hand-dealing  of 
the  Lord,  which  I  see  in  it,  and  which  they  themselves  do  not  fully 
realize.  It  will  come  in  a  natural  way,  it  may  be  England,  it  may  be 
some  other  nation,  but  it  will  be  the  Lord  who  will  direct. 

THE  LORD  WILL  USE  THE  NATIONS  TO  ACCOMPLISH  HIS  PURPOSE 

When  Cyrus  led  the  victorious  Medio-Persian  army  to  the  over- 
throw of  the  great  Babylonian  kingdom  he  was  not  aware  that  he  was 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


fulfilling  the  words  of  the  prophets  who  had  lived  long  before,  but  he 
did  so  in  wondrous  detail.  When  Alexander  of  Macedon  halted  his 
army,  after  he  had  crossed  the  Dardanelles  and  won  the  battle  of  Gran- 
icus,  and  notwithstanding  the  protest  of  his  gene)ral=>  delayed  his 
campaign  against  Persia,  in  order  that  he  might  besiege  and  finally 
destroy  Tyre,  he  had  no  knowledge  of  the  fact  that  the  prophets  had 
declared  that  the  greatest  maritime  city  of  the  world  should  be  destroyed 
in  just  that  manner,  but  it  was  nevertheless  true. 

So  will  the  Lord  continue  to  use  the  nations  for  the  accomplish- 
ment of  his  purposes,  until  the  words  of  his  servants  the  prophets  have 
all  been  fulfilled,  until  Zion  is  established,  Judea  redeemed,  and  his 
will  done  upon  earth,  as  it  is  done  in  heaven. 

God  bless  the  Jews  in  this  important  work.  May  the  eyes  of  their 
understanding  be  opened,  and  the  time  soon  come  when  Shiloh,  to  whose 
coming  they  have  so  long  looked  forward,  shall  stand  upon  the  Mount  of 
Olives,  and  they  recognize  in  him,  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world,  whom  their  fathers  rejected.  And  may  we,  Latter-day 
Saints,  we  people  who  are  of  Ephraim,  appreciate  the  part  we  are  play- 
ing in  this  great  latter-day  drama,  the  like  of  which  was  never  played 
before,  and  never  will  be  again,  is  my  earnest  prayer,  through  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  saw  President  Ivins  turn  this  book  down.  He  said  before 
he  started  to  speak,  he  was  going  to  read  the  last  verse  of  the  inspired 
hymn  by  Parley  P.  Pratt  that  we  have  heard  sung  today: 

"Lo,  Israel  filled,  with  joy 
Shall  now  be  gathered  home, 
Their  wealth  and  means  employ 

To  build  Jerusalem; 
While  Zion  shall  arise  and  shine. 
And  fill  the  earth  with  truth  divine." 

Another  prophecy  that  was  uttered  by  Parley  P.  Pratt  over  three 
quarters  of  a  century  ago  is  being  fulfilled. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

I  do  not  believe  that  there  is  any  other  place  in  all  the  world  where 
a  gathering  of  people  such  as  we  have  in  this  building  this  morning 
is  possible.  Every  seat  occupied,  with  thousands  standing,  and  every 
person  present  listening  for  every  word  that  falls  from  the  mouth  of 
the  speaker,  with  every  one  interested  in  what  may  be  said,  and  the 
prophecies  that  may  be  made,  every  soul  having  within  herself  or  him- 
self a  testimony  that  God  lives  and  that  this  is  his  Church. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


53 


THE  GREATEST  JOY  OF  LIFE 

While  President  Ivins  was  speaking  this  morning  I  thought  to 
myself  how  wonderful  it  would  be  if  every  soul  that  breathes  could 
have  heard  the  speech  delivered  by  him,  and  how  would  it  be  possible 
for  men  and  women  hearing  him  to  doubt  that  there  is  a  living  God, 
and  that  the  testimonies  and  prophecies  uttered  by  his  servants  from 
the  beginning  of  the  world  down  to  the  present  have  been  or  will  be 
fulfilled.  The  greatest  joy  I  have  in  my  life  is  that  I  know  that  the 
servants  of  God,  speaking  under  the  inspiration  of  his  Holy  Spirit, 
utter  those  things  that  God  wants  his  people  to  know,  and  also  give 
notice  to  the  world  that  they  will  surely  happen. 

WHAT  IT  MEANS  TO  LIVE  THE  GOSPEL 

There  is  no  other  church  on  earth  with  so  perfect  an  organization  to 
look  after  the  welfare  of  its  members,  not  only  spiritually  but  physically 
and  temporally  as  well.  I  haven't  the  time  to  point  to  examples,  but  in 
making  that  statement  I  feel  positive  that  no  one  who  has  studied  the 
organization  of  the  Church,  bearing  upon  these  three  great  activities 
of  life,  could  do  otherwise  than  testify  to  the  statements  I  have  just 
made.  To  live  its  laws  and  requirements  means  spiritual  salvation, 
physical  development  and  temporal  advancement.  It  is  well  that  at 
these  conferences  the  people  are  instructed  along  these  lines,  for  they 
are  part  of  the  whole,  and  without  the  whole  men  cannot  enjoy  the 
fulness  of  life. 

THE  BURDENS  OF  DEBT 

How  often  at  these  conferences  have  we  heard  the  voice  of  Pres- 
ident Smith  ring  out,  aye,  not  only  as  counsel  and  advice,  but  as  a  man 
clothed  with  authority  to  speak,  pleading  with  the  people  to  study  and 
obey  the  temporal  laws  given  to  this  Church !  How  often  have  we 
heard  him  and  others  pleading  with  the  people  to  keep  out  of  debt ;  and, 
if  in  debt,  that  we  get  out  as  soon  as  possible.  That  advice  is  not  only 
good  to  our  people  and  all  people,  but  it  is  good  to  all  nations  and  all 
countries,  all  states,  all  counties,  all  cities,  for  whoever  dreamed  a  few 
years  ago  that  the  world  would  be  in  such  a  condition  financially  as  it  is 
today?  Since  the  close  of  war  I  have  exercised  all  my  power  to 
eliminate  every  unnecessary  expense  of  our  government  with  a  view  of 
lightening  the  burden  of  taxation  upon  the  institutions  of  our  country 
and  individual  taxpayers,  and  set  an  example,  if  you  please,  for  states 
and  for  counties,  and  for  cities,  and  foreign  countries,  as  well,  to  follow. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  few  moments  that  I  have  at  my 
command,  I  want  to  call  briefly  to  your  attention  one  subject  that  it 
seems  to  me  will  at  least  assist  those  who  want  assistance  to  keep  out  of 
debt  and  get  out  of  debt. 

IDLENESS  CONDEMNED 

I  remember  that  in  one  of  the  early  revelations  given  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  the  Lord  said : 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Thou  shalt  not  be  idle,  for  he  that  is  idle  shall  not  eat  the  bread  nor  wear 
the  garments  of  the  laborer." 

May  I  add  that  in  idleness  there  is  decay  and  early  death,  not 
only  in  man  but  in  everything  in  all  the  universe.  Take  a  piece  of 
machinery,  let  it  be  idle,  and  what  will  happen?  It  will  be  made  useless 
much  earlier  than  if  in  constant  use.  And  I  might  proceed  and  call 
your  attention,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  other  matters  of  the  mind  and 
the  body,  but  time  will  not  permit.  As  far  as  I  am  concerned  I  would 
prefer  to  work  out  rather  than  to  rust  out,  and  if  I  had  followed  the 
advice  of  my  doctors  just  before  leaving  Washington,  I  would  be  up 
in  some  of  these  mountains,  not  receiving  a  telegram,  or  a  letter,  seeing 
iiq  people,  but  resting  for  four  or  five  months.  When  he  gave  me  that 
advice,  all  I  had  to  say  was,  "Doctor,  I  will  not  do  it." 

HOW  TO  REACH  HAPPINESS  AND  CONTENTMENT 

It  is  not  altogether  the  number  of  years  that  you  live  that  counts, 
but  the  result  of  your  labors  that  you  will  be  judged  by,  not  only 
among  the  children  of  men,  but  in  the  hereafter  as  well.  I  want  to 
see  the  "Mormon"  people  the  most  contented  and  the  happiest  people 
in  all  the  world.  And  let  me  testify  to  you  today  that  the  way  to 
reach  that  happy  sphere  is  to  live  the  commandments  that  God  has 
given  us,  and  obey  the  same. 

MEANING  AND  NECESSITY  OF  THRIFT 

Thrift  is  what  we  need  among  our  own  people  and  among  the 
nations  of  the  world,  and  when  I  say  thrift  I  mean  it  in  its  broadest 
sense.  In  speaking  of  thrift  I  mean  the  kind  that  makes  better  men, 
better  women  and  better  children,  a  thrift  that  will  build  a  better  nation, 
a  better  world.  Thrift  means  much  more  than  the  mere  saving  of 
money,  it  means  prosperity,  good  husbandry,  economical  management, 
frugality;  it  means  individual  efficiency;  it  means  order  and  system; 
it  means  self-control,  and  in  many  cases  self-denial.  It  means  self- 
confidence  ;  it  means  character -building  in  its  broadest  meaning,  morally, 
temporally  and  spiritually.  The  thrift  that  I  want  to  impress  upon  you 
does  not  mean  stinginess  nor  miserliness,  nor  does  it  include  extrava- 
gance. Thrift  and  thriving  mean  the  same  thing.  A  thriving  child  never 
suggests  skimping  and  saving ;  a  thrifty  man  is  one  who  thrives 
on  account  of  his  own  efforts.  Many  people  have  a  wrong  idea  in 
thinking  that  thrift  is  the  niggardly  cutting  down  of  necessary  ex- 
penses ;  they  urge  that  they  would  rather  be  spendthrifts  than  misers. 

WASTE  THE  ENEMY  OF  THRIFT  AND  PROGRESS 

In  this  connection  remember  that  waste  is  the  universal  enemy 
of  all  forms  of  thrift  and  progress.  What  do  we  get  out  of  smoking? 
No  good  whatever.  It  is  a  violation  of  the  very  principle  of  thrift, 
and  many  people  in  this  counrty  are  now  indulging  in  it.  I  once  made  a 
speech  at  the  Utah  stake  conference,  years  ago,  when  I  was  second 
counselor  to  the  president  of  that  stake.    It  was  often  designated  the, 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


55 


"garbage  can  speech  of  Reed  Smoot."  Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
I  want  to  say  to  you  that  into  that  can,  many  times  at  the  homes  of  the 
people  who  can  least  afford  it,  you  will  find  the  waste,  aye,  the  wicked 
waste  of  the  very  necessaries  of  life. 

This  subject  is  so  broad  that  I  find  it  is  impossible  for  me 
to  cover  it,  but  I  do  want  to  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  in  the 
United  States  66  out  of  every  100  people  who  die  leave  no  estate ;  that 
out  of  the  remaining  24  only  nine  leave  an  estate  larger  than  five- 
thousand  dollars.  Think  of  this  deplorable  condition,  that  at  the  age 
of  65,  97  out  of  every  100  in  America,  are  partially  or  wholly  de- 
pendent on  relatives  or  friends  or  the  public  for  their  daily  bread  for 
their  clothing,  and  for  a  roof  under  which  to  sleep. 

A  STORY  OF  LINLOLN  AS  AN  ILLUSTRATION 

An  eastern  merchant  once  wrote  Abraham  Lincoln,  when  a  young 
attorney,  asking  about  the  responsibilty  and  character  of  a  fellow-towns- 
man, and  Mr.  Lincoln  answered  as  follows : 

"Dear  Sir : — Yours  of  the  10th  received.  I  am  well  acquainted  with  the 
gentleman  named,  and  know  his  circumstances.  First  of  all  he  has  a  wife 
and  baby.  Together  they  should  be  worth  fifty  thousand  dollars  to  any  man. 
Then  he  has  an  office  in  which  there  will  be  a  table  worth  about  a  dollar  and  a 
half,  and  three  chairs  worth,  say,  one  dollar.  Last  of  all,  there  is  in  one  corner 
a  rat  hole  which  will  bear  looking  into.   Yours  respectfully,  Abraham  Lincoln." 

WHERE  OUR  DANGER  LIES 

I  see  my  time  has  expired.  I  do  not  know  how  it  is  possible  for 
any  man  or  woman  to  attend  one  of  these  conferences  and  hear  the 
testimonies  given  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  God  that  we 
have  here,  to  leave  a  meeting  and  say  the  "Mormons"  are  dishonest 
in  their  belief.  I  believe  all  that  has  been  revealed ;  I  believe  all  that 
will  yet  be  revealed;  and  I  believe  that  this  people  will  be  instructed 
and  directed  under  the  influence  of  revelation  from  Almighty  God.  The 
only  danger  is  ourselves.  The  Father  will  do  his  part,  and  desires  that 
his  children  will  do  theirs.  May  God  give  us  wisdom  and  judgment  to 
fulfil  every  requirement  made  at  our  hands,  that  every  calling,  no 
matter  were  it  may  be,  may  be  fulfilled  in  a  way  that  evein  the  bitterest 
enemy  that  we  have  may  see  our  works,  and  forever  cease  criticism  of 
such  a  people.  Go'd  be  with  us  forever.  May  his  work  grow  and 
increase  in  the  world  for  goodness,  and  in  power,  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Grant  announced  that  brief  testimonies  would  be  given  by 
a  number  of  the  brethren  during  the  remainder  of  the  time. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

Brethren  and  sisters,  during  the  latter  part  of  February  and  the 
early  part  of  March,  the  Southern  states  mission  was  honored  by  a 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


visit  from  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  As  the  President  of  the  Church 
stood  before  those  great  audiences  in  Jacksonville,  Florida,  and  Atlanta, 
Georgia,  as  a  minister  and  a  witness  for  Jesus  Christ,  I  could  feel  in 
my  heart  that  God  had  opened  effectual  doors  for  the  President  to 
deliver  great  messages  to  those  large  congregations.  We  have  ex- 
perienced, through  the  ministry  of  the  President  of  the  Church,  a  great 
spiritual  uplift.    The  poet  says: 

V 

"Thy  swift  messengers  are  treading 
Thy  high  courts  where  princes  dwell; 
And  thy  glorious  light  is  spreading, 
Zion  prospers ;  all  is  well." 

There  is  in  this  gospel  the  power  to  bring  the  pence  of  mind  that 
is  dearer  than  all.  Not  long  ago  a  young  lady  in  the  south  who  had  not 
attained  her  majority  heard  the  gospel  preached  by  two  of  the  humble 
servants  of  the  Lord.  That  message,  spoken  under  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  went  to  the  heart  of  this  young  woman.  She  appealed  to 
her  father  for  permission  to  be  baptized,  but  he  refused,  and  said,  "The 
church  of  your  father  and  your  mother  will  afford  you  spiritual  con- 
solation." Her  pleadings  were  of  no  avail.  Some  months  afterwards 
the  girl  died.  There  came  to  the  father  a  great  awakening.  Someone 
has  said  that  "the  awakening  of  the  conscience  is  the  grandeur  of  the. 
soul."  His  conscience  began  to  trouble  him;  he  felt  in  his  heart  that 
he  had  denied  his  daughter,  the  idol  of  his  life,  a  sacred  privilege  to  which 
she  was  entitled.  He  could  have  turned  in  his  troubled  state  of  mind 
to  those  outwardly  magnificent  but  soul-unsatisfying  institutions  in 
which  he  had  bidden  her  to  remain,  and  said :  "Canst  thou  not  minister 
to  a  mind  diseased?  Pluck  from  the  memory  a  rooted  sorrow?"  But 
the  response  would  have  been,  "  'Where  the  tree  falleth,  there  shall  it 
be.'  Death  fixes  a  period  to  man's  progress."  So  he  turned  in  his 
distress  to  the  standard  that  God  has  set  up  for  the  Gentiles  to  seek  to, 
and  his  rest  was  glorious.  He  considered  the  doctrine  of  salvation  for 
the  dead,  and  he  wrote  me,  stating  the  circumstances  of  his  refusal  to 
permit  his  daughter  to  be  baptized.  He  said :  "I  believe  in  the  doctrine 
of  salvation  for  the  dead ;  I  believe  that  there  is  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  the  power  to  apply  the  grace  of  this  gospel 
to  those  who  have  departed.  And,"  said  he,  "you  will  relieve  my  mind, 
you  will  make  me  happy  by  having  the  temple  work  done  for  my  darling 
daughter,  who  departed  this  life  without  receiving  the  gospel,  because  of 
my  prejudice."   And  this  was  done.   This  man  received  peace. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  my  testimony  that  in  this  Church 
there  is  the  power  and  the  Priesthood  to  administer  the  saving  ordi- 
nances of  the  gospel  for  those  who  have  gone  to  the  spirit  world,  who 
have  not  had  the  opportunity  of  receiving  the  gospel  in  this  life.  And 
this  testimony  I  bear  in  humility  and  with  gratitude  of  heart,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  HUGH  J.  CANNON 


57 


ELDER  HUGH  J.  CANNON 

President  of  the  Liberty  Stake  of  Zion 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  call  came  as  a  very  great  surprise, 
but  it  is  always  a  pleasure  to  me  to  testify  of  the  divinity  of  this  gospel, 
no  matter  how  much  fright  results  from  the  calk 

When  I  see  before  me  the  thousands  of  people  who  share  with  me 
the  knowledge  that  the  gospel  is  true,  when  I  contemplate  their  lives 
and  think  what  the  truth  has  done  for  them,  I  feel  as  Brother  Smoot 
said,  ''It  is  surprising  that  all  the  world  cannot  understand  it." 

While  waiting  for  this  meeting  to  commence  a  little  experience  I 
had,  not  very  long  ago,  came  to  my  mind.  You  know  the  Church  practice 
of  having  our  families  visited  by  the  ward  teachers,  and  I  wondered 
how  it  is  that  people  of  the  world  have  not  thought  of  this  simple 
means  of  keeping  in  touch  with  those  whose  spiritual  welfare  they  are 
attempting  to  direct. 

A  little  while  ago  the  Presidency  of  the  Liberty  stake  suggested  to 
the  bishoprics  that  they  would  like  to  do-  some  visiting  among  the 
people  and  see  how  this  work  of  ward  teaching  is  being  actually 
carried  out.  An  invitation  was  extended  to  me  to  go  out  with  two 
young  boys  in  one  of  our  wards.  By  appointment  I  met  them  on  a 
certain  street  corner,  and  found  them  to  be  about  fourteen  years  of  age, 
The  one  in  charge  asked,  "What  would  you  like  to  do?"  I  replied,' 
"I  would  like  to  see  how  you  do  you  teaching;  just  go  ahead  in  your 
usual  way."  "Well,  suppose  we  go  into  this  house,"  he  said,  indicating 
his  father's  home,  in  front  of  which  we  were  standing,  "and  have  prayers 
together."  We  went  in  and  they  asked  me  to  pray.  From  the  time  we 
entered  that  house  until  the  work  of  teaching  was  finished  for  the 
night,  not  one  word  was  spoken  that  did  not  pertain  to  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We  went  into  one  home,  and  the  'boys  said  to  the 
head  of  the  house  who  happened  to  be  their  bishop,  "Are  your  chil- 
dren all  together?"  The  bishop  answered,  "They  will  be,  in  a  moment." 
We  waited  until  all  in  the  house  were  present  and  then  we  had  prayers, 
after  which  the  boys  delivered  their  message,  and  in  all  my  experience  in 
the  Church  I  have  never  seen  such  good  teaching  as  those  two  fourteen- 
year-old  boys  did.  When  they  got  through  in  the  first  home,  they 
turned  to  me  and  said,  "Brother  Cannon,  haven't  you  something  to 
say?"  And  I  was  obliged  to  say,  "No."  If  I  had  opened  my  mouth 
to  speak  I  would  have  broken  down  and  cried,  so  deep  was  the  Im- 
pression they  made  upon  my  heart. 

When  we  see  simple  things  like  this  in  the  Church  of  Christ,  and 
then  compare  them  with  the  vain  attempts  which  are  made  by  the  people 
of  the  world  to  put  over  their  message,  it  seems  to  me  that  all  mankind, 
if  they  will  give  it  a  moment's  thought,  must  see  in  this  Church  the 
hand  of  a  Divine  Ruler,  one  who  inspires  his  servants  to  direct  and  to 
institute  in  the  Church  the  things  which  will  make  for  salvation, 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  can  testify,  and  I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  which  I  possess,  that 
God  does  live,  and  that  the  men  who  preside  over  us,  and  who  have 
presided  over  this  Church  from  the  beginning,  are  divinely  called 
and  divinely  inspired.  I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  which  I  have  of 
these  things,  and  which  I  bear  to  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  HENRY  H.  BLOOD 

President  of  the  North  Davis  Stake  of  Zion 

One  unaccustomed  to  standing  before  a  congregation  of  this  size 
cannot  fail  to  be  overawed  as  he  occupies,  for  the  first  time,  this  posi- 
tion, and  his  trust  must  be  placed  in  the  Lord  for  guidance  in  the  few 
words  of  testimony  that  he  would  like  to  bear. 

This  morning,  as  I  listened  to  what  President  Ivins  told  us,  to 
his  reading  of  predictions  that  have  been  made  with  reference  to  ancient 
Israel,  and  to  the  complete  fulfilment,  so  far  as  the  fulfilment  has  at 
this  time  been  made  complete,  of  all  those  predictions,  my  mind  went 
also  to  the  predictions  that  have  been  made  with  reference  to  modern 
Israel.  I  thought  of  that  wonderful  prediction  made  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  in  the  later  years  of  his  life,  in  which  he  said  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  should  be  led  to  the  Rocky  Mountains,  and  that  here 
in  the  midst  of  these  valleys  they  should  become  a  mighty  people.  It 
then  was  a  wonderful  prediction  in  itself,  because  he  had  never  seen 
in  his  natural  vision  these  valleys,  and  yet  his  prophetic  eyes  had  been 
opened  to  understand  what  the  future  of  this  people  should  be. 

Later,  when  the  people  were  led  by  the  Prophet  Brigham  Young 
to  these  valleys,  it  is  not  surprising  to  me  that  when  his  eyes  first 
beheld  this  spot  upon  which  this  tabernacle  now  is  built,  this  valley 
in  which  this  splendid  city  is  located,  he  was  able  to  say,  "This  is  the 
place." 

I  have  watched  within  the  short  period  of  my  own  life  that  fulfil- 
ment of  another  prediction,  which  tradition  says — I  do  not  know  that 
it  is  written — was  made  at  the  time  the  ward  in  which  I  live  was  first 
organized,  very  early  in  1850.  At  that  time  it  is  said  that  President 
Brigham  Young  made  a  statement  that  the  time  would  come  when  that 
section  lying  between  Salt  Lake  City  and  Ogden  would  be  so  closely 
populated  that  it  would  be  difficult  to  say  when  you  left  one  settle- 
ment or  town  and  entered  another.  At  that  time  there  was  not  much 
of  a  population  in  that  particular  district;  indeed,. there  was  a  section 
of  that  country  lying  between  here  and  Ogden  that  did  not  at  that 
time  appear  to  lend  itself  to  population — the  Sand  Ridge.  We  con- 
sidered it  to  be  a  place  where  no  one  could  reside,  a  place  inhabited 
only  by  lizards  and  an  occasional  jack  rabbit,  and  yet  the  prophet 
of  the  Lord  had  said  that  it  should  become  populous.  Go  there  now, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  traverse  the  section  between  this  city  and 
Ogden,  and  witness  the  literal  fulfilment  of  that  prediction  which  I 


ELDER  HENRY  H.  BLOOD 


59 


have  heard  mentioned  all  the  years  of  my  life.  Indeed  it  had  scarcely 
begun  to  be  fulfilled  when  I  first  remember  that  particular  district. 
Today  some  of  the  best  and  most  productive  gardens  are  located  along 
that  section  of  the  country  between  here  and  Ogden.  And  a  more  inten- 
sively cultivated  section  cannot  be  found  in  the  state  of  Utah.  Literally, 
it  is  true  that  one  going  from  here  to  Ogden  can  scarcely  tell  when 
he  leaves  one  settlement  and  enters  another.  Verily  these  predictions 
of  modern  prophets  have  been  fulfilled,  and  in  their  fulfilling  there 
has  also  been  fulfilled  that  wonderful  prediction  contained  in  the 
35th  chapter  of  Isaiah,  wherein  that  prophet  of  old  said, 

"The  wilderness  and  the  solitary  place  shall  be  glad  for  them;  and  the 
desert  shall  rejoice,  and  blossom  as  the  rose." 

Men  will  say,  of  course,  that  this  has  been  brought  about  by  the 
hands  of  men,  and  so  it  has,  but  God's  purposes  are  always  fulfilled 
by  men,  by  the  instrumentality  of  men  whom  he  raises  up  to  fulfil  his 
purposes.  Men  have  gone  out  into  the  mountains,  conserved  the  water 
supply,  poured  it  upon  the  parched  land,  and  the  land  has  been  made 
fruitful  because  of  the  work  of  man,  but  that  is  literally  the  way  the 
Lord  fulfils  the  predictions  of  his  prophets. 

My  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  that  God  is 
guiding  the  destinies  of  this  people,  that  every  word  that  has  been 
spoken  with  reference  to  ancient  Israel,  and  with  reference  to  modern 
Israel,  will  be  fulfilled,  and  I  bear  this  testimony  to  you  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  hymn,  "Let  the  mountains  shout  for  joy,"  was  sung  by  a 
quartette  and  the  choir. 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Henry  N.  Mickleson, 
president  of  the  Lost  River  stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

At  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  April  5,  the  conference  session  was  opened 
by  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  who  announced  that  the  choir  and  con- 
gregation would  sing,  "Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with 
Jehovah." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Albert  H.  Belliston, 
president  of  the  Juab  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  sang,  "The  morning  breaks  the  shadows  flee." 

In  announcing  the  singing  of  this  hymn  President  Heber  J.  Grant 
stated  that  it  is  the  first  hymn  in  the  Latter-day  Saints'  hymn  book, 
and  that  it  is  entitled  to  the  place. 

H.  L.  Johnston,  Tobar,  Nevada,  heard  the  Sunday  morning  service 
over  radio.    He  sent  a  message  saying,  "Morning  service  came  in  fine- 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Appreciate  opportunity  of  hearing  the  word  of  the  Lord."  The  message 
was  read  by  President  Grant. 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  quite  sure  that  this  is  the  largest 
congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints  that  I  have  ever  had  the  privilege 
of  standing  before.  I  think  there  must  be  in  this  building  at  least 
nine  thousand  people,  and  in  addition  to  that  number  there  is  a  large 
audience  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  and  another  congregation  in  the  Barratt 
Hall,  and  still  in  addition  to  that  there  is  a  large  congregation  of  people 
who  are  "listening  in."  I  said  to  Brother  John  M.  Knight,  as  we  were 
leaving  the  building  yesterday,  that  I  sat  right  behind  him  on  the  stand 
and  could  hear  every  word  he  said.  He  seemed  to  be  pleased  with  that 
information,  and  as  he  was  able  to  make  me  hear  him,  I  trust  that  I 
shall  be  able  to  make  you  hear  me. 

TWO   IMPORTANT  DOCTRINES 

I  have  been  deeply  impressed  with  the  sermons  of  the  brethren 
who  have  spoken,  both  yesterday  and  today.  President  Grant  in  the 
opening  address  gave  the  key  note  to  the  conference.  He  explained 
clearly  our  belief  in  Deity ;  yes  our  belief  in  God  the  Father  and  in  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  is  one  God,  the  God  of 
the  Bible.  He  also  stressed,  with  his  usual  force  and  precision,  two 
very  important  doctrines  of  the  gospel — one  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and 
the  other  the  law  of  tithing.  In  my  talk  this  afternoon,  if  I  can  come 
somewhere  within  the  range  of  the  keynote  address,  I  will  not  be  going 
very  far  astray.  Another  thing,  it  should  be  remembered  that  the 
doctrines  of  the  gospel  may  be  approached  at  different  angles,  which 
gives  a  little  spice  and  variety  to  the  discourses  of  the  brethren.  This  I 
think  is  acceptable  to  the  Lord  and  pleasing  to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

GREATER  AND  LESSER  LAWS 

How  wonderful  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Paul  the  Apostle 
describes  it  as  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  to  all  those  who  believe 
and  obey  it.  But  the  question  naturally  arises :  "What  is  this  salvation 
the  apostle  was  referring  to?  You  will  find  among  the  writings  and 
sermons  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  some  information  upon  this  very 
important  subject.  He  said  that  a  man  could  not  be  fully  saved  until  he 
had  put  all  enemies  under  his  feet  in  this  world,  and  subdued  or  domi- 
nated all  evil  spirits  in  the  world  to  come,  as  it  was  written  of  Christ 
that  he  should  reign  until  he  put  all  enemies  under  his  feet,  the  last 
enemy  being  death. 

Within  the  scope  of  the  gospel  there  are  very  many  doctrines  or 
laws.  There  are  some  people  who  presume  to  determine  which  are 
great  and  which  are  small.  As  for  instance,  you  may  hear  a  person 
say:  Well,  this  doctrine  of  the  gospel  is  one  of  the  greater  doctrines, 
and  this  other  doctrine,  well  that  is  one  of  the  lesser  laws,    It  seems 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWS  ON 


61 


to  me  it  is  presumptuous  upon  the  part  of  any  man  to  determine 
a  matter  of  that  kind.  Who  can  say,  except  God  himself,  the  author 
of  the  gospel,  which  are  the  greater  and  which  are  the  lesser  laws, 
if  there  be  any  difference.  I  have  been  reflecting  somewhat  upon  the 
two  important  doctrines  or  laws  that  the  President  so  beautifully  and 
powerfully  emphasized  in  his  address.  One  is  the  law  of  health,  the 
other  is  the  law  of  revenue;  or  in  other  words  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
and  the  law  of  Tithing. 

AS  TO  THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM 

Relative  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  told  in 
the  revelation  itself,  which  was  given  February  27,  1833,  that  it  was 
given  to  show  forth  the  order  and  will  of  God  in  the  temporal  salva- 
tion of  his  people.  That  sounds  very  fine  to  me.  It  is  wonderful  if 
we  can  be  saved  temporally.  It  is  necessary,  it  is  essential,  and  this  was 
given,  it  seems,  for  that  very  purpose.  The  Lord  then  proceeds  to  tell 
his  people  what  is  hurtful  to  the  body.  He  knew ;  he  has  always  known ; 
therefore  he  advises  his  people.  He  tells  us  that  strong  drinks  are  not 
good  for  the  body,  that  tobacco  is  not  good  for  the  body,  but  was  in- 
tended for  all  sick  cattle,  and  is  to  be  used  with  judgment  and  skill. 
We  are  also  told  that  not  only  strong  drinks  are  not  good  for  the 
body,  but  that  hot  drinks,  meaning  tea  and  coffee,  are  not  good  for 
the  body. 

In  giving  this  great  revelation,  the  Lord  has  not  left  his  people 
in  the  dark,  After  pointing  out  some  of  the  things  that  are  exceed- 
ingly hurtful  to  the  body,  he  points  out  the  articles  of  food  that  are 
good  for  the  body,  namely  all  wholesome  herbs  to  be  used  with  prudence 
and  thanksgiving,  the  flesh  of  beasts  and  the  fowls  of  the  air,  to  be  used 
sparingly  and  not  to  excess ;  all  grain,  the  same  being  ordained  for  the 
use  of  man  and  of  beasts,  to  be  the  staff  of  life.  Here  is  a  law  that 
reaches  out  in  opposite  directions.  It  tells  us  on  the  one  hand  what  is 
good  for  these  our  mortal  bodies,  on  the  other,  what  is  bad  for  them. 
It  is  the  law  of  health.  Are  the  Latter-day  Saints  observing  it  ?  Many 
are,  some  are  not.  Those  who  fail  to  keep  it  cannot  plead  ignorance, 
for  the  law  has  been  in  force  upon  the  Church  of  Christ  for  ninety-two 
years,  and  is  often  mentioned  in  the  congregations  of  the  Saints.  It 
should  not  be  overlooked,  nor  forgotten,  that  this  law  was  given  with 
a  promise  of  great  blessings  through  its  observance;  for  it  is  written 
down  in  the  statute  that,  "all  Saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do 
these  things,  walking  in  obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive 
health  in  their  navel  and  marrow  to  their  bones,  and  shall  find  wisdom 
and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden  treasures,  and  shall  run 
and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint.  And  I,  the  Lord,  give 
unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying  angel  shall  pass  them  by  as  the 
children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them." 

ITS  SPIRITUAL  AND  TEMPORAL  CHARACTER 

This  promise  greatly  emphasizes  also  the  spiritual  character  of  the 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


law,  as  well  as  the  temporal,  and  justifies  one  in  saying  that  the 
Word  of  Wisdom  is  not  only  temporal  in  its  nature,  but  is  also  spiritual, 
for  surely  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge  are  spiritual.  In 
further  evidence  of  this  the  Lord  said  to  Joseph  Smith  in  the  revelation 
of  the  Three  Glories,  namely: 

"For  thus  saith  the  Lord— I,  the  Lord,  am  merciful  and  gracious  unto  those 
who  fear  me,  and  delight  to  honor  those  who  serve  me  in  righteousness,  and  in 
truth  to  the  end. 

"Great  shall  be  their  reward  and  eternal  shall  be  their  glory.  And  to  them 
will  I  reveal  all  mysteries,  yea,  all  the  hidden  mysteries  of  my  kingdom  from 
days  of  old,  and  for  ages  to  come,  will  I  make  known  unto  them  the  good 
pleasure  of  my  will  concerning  all  things  pertaining  to  my  kingdom. 

"Yea,  even  the  wonders  of  eternity  shall  they  know  and  tilings  to  come 
will  I  show  them  even  the  things  of  many  generations. 

"And  their  wisdom  shall  be  great  and  their  understanding  reach  to  heaven ; 
and  before  them  the  wisdom  of  the  wise  shall  perish  and,  the  understanding  of 
the  prudent  shall  come  to  naught 

"For  by  my  Spirit  will  I  enlighten  them  and  by  my  power  will  I  make  known 
unto  them  the  secrets  of  my  will — yea,  .even  those  things  which  eye  has  not  seen, 
nor  ear  heard,  nor  yet  entered  into  the  heart  of  man." 

THE    PROMISE    IS  SURE 

Let  me  say  here,  in  all  solemnity,  that  those  who  fail  to  keep  this 
law  cannot  justly  claim  the  promise. 

I  fancy  I  hear  some  one  say :  "Ah,  Brother  Clawson,  my  father 
was  a  good  man,  a  faithful  Latter-day  Saint.  He  kept  the  command- 
ments of  God,  he  was  an  observer  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  At  the 
age  of  seventy  he  died,  and  the  destroying  angel  came  and  took  him 
away." 

My  answer  to  that  is :  "Brother,  would  you  make  the  promise 
of  God  of  non-effect?  Would  you  intimate  that  the  Lord  who  gave  this 
law  and  this  promise  unto  its  people  failed  in  your  father's  case  to 
keep  his  promise  ?  Surely  it  was  not  so.  True,  the  angel  of  death  may 
have  been  in  your  father's  home  when  he  passed  away,  in  fact,  may  have 
come  for  your  father,  but  he  was  not  a  destroying  angel,  no,  he  was  an 
angel  of  peace,  of  mercy,  of  hope,  of  love,  and  he  came  to  open  the 
door  of  light  and  life  and  everlasting  joy  to  your  good  father." 

Death  comes  to  all.  The  death  of  the  righteous  is  sweet  but  the 
death  of  the  wicked,  of  the  rebellious,  of  those  who  are  wilfully  neglect- 
ful of  their  duty  and  treat  lightly  the  sacred  commandments  of  God,  is 
bitter.  Oh,  Israel,  God  will  not  be  mocked  in  these  latter  days.  His 
house  is  a  house  of  order.  His  will  is  supreme.  He  gives  the  law 
and  demands  of  his  children  obedience  thereto. 

CONCERNING  THE  USE  OF  TOBACCO 

Again  referring  to  those  things  that  are  hurtful  to  the  body,  I  quote 
from  an  article  by  Will  H.  Brown  of  Oakland,  California,  as  follows : 

"Tobacco  A  Source  of  Inefficiency 
"Newspaper  dispatches  from  Washington,  D.  C.  state  that  the  amount  spent 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


63 


for  tobacco  in  the  United  States  for  1923,  was  $3,090,000,000.  That  -is  more 
than  $1,000,000  more  than  was  spent  fpr  admission  to  movies  and  theatres,  for 
imported  silks,  for  candy  and  sweets,  jewelry,  face  powder,  lipsticks,  perfumes, 
imported  diamonds  and  precious  stones,  all  combined. 

"The  further  statement  is  made  that  the  tobacco  bill  of  the  United  States 
for  1923  would  pay  the  entire  ordinary  operating  expenses  of  the  Government 
for  the  next  fiscal  year,  according  to  the  new  budget  estimates.  It  has  been  well 
known  for  same  time  that  the  tobacco  bill  is  far  in  excess  of  the  total  cost  and 
valuation  of  the  entire  public  school  system  of  America. 

"But  great  as  is  the  cost  iin  money,  it  is  small  in  comparison  with  the  cost 
in  mental,  moral  and  physical  efficiency.  The  lack  of  care  and  thought  on  the 
part  of  many  workers  in  many  lines  is  a  matter  of  common  comment.  A  man 
who  seated  he  had  been  a  yardmaster  for  the  last  thirty-five  years,  wrote  to  one 
of  the  well  known  financial  writers  for  the  Hearst  papers,  saying :  "There  are 
only  a  few  good  men  left  in  all  the  great  railroad  terminals." 

"The  increase  in  crime  and  immorality,  which  is  one  of  the  alarming  con- 
ditions now  faced  in  this  country,  keeps  pace  with  the  increase  in  the  use  of 
tobacco.  One  prominent  judge  says  he  regrets  to  see  a  girl  smoking,  for  he 
considers  a  cigarette  in  the  ,mouth  of  a  girl  as  a  brand  of  the  prostitute.  Tens 
of  thousands  of  women  and  girls  are  now  smoking.  We  must  remember,  how- 
ever, that  tobacco  is  no  more  demoralizing  for  one  sex  than  the  other." 

In  face  of  the  fact  that  tobacco  exerts  a  baneful  and  demoralizing 
effect  on  the  body  and  the  mind,  there  are  some  members  of  the  Church 
and  even  young  men  and  boys,  who  have  acquired  the  habit  and  go  on 
using  tobacco.  It  appears  to  be  a  matter  of  deliberate  and  wilful 
disregard  of  God's  commandment.  And  then  what  shall  we  say  of  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  if  there  be  any,  and  I  fear  there  are, who  not  only 
violate  the  law  of  God,  but  also  the  law  of  man,  by  using  bootleg 
whiskey  that  in  some  cases  paralyzes  the  body  and  blinds  the  eyes.  If 
the  Latter-day  'Saints  will  but  do  their  simple  duty,  they  will  be  living 
above  and  beyond  the  law  of  prohibition,  which  is  a  righteous  and 
most  beneficient  law. 

THE  LAW  OF  REVENUE  FOR  THE  CHURCH 

The  time  is  gone.  I  might  say  in  conclusion  that  the  other  great 
law  emphasized  was  the  law  of  revenue  for  the  Church.  No  church 
under  the  heavens  can  be  fully  established  and  have  assurance  that  it 
will  prosper  without  revenue,  and  therefore  the  churches  of  the  world 
have  planned  in  various  ways  to  raise  revenue  to  meet  their  current 
expenses,  and  to  build  up  their  institutions.  In  many  instances,  they 
have  adopted  the  custom  of  passing  around  the  plate  during  their 
religious  services,  or  in  other  words  taking  up  a  collection.  Now  the 
Lord  knew  very  well  that,  if  he  established  his  Church,  there  must  be  a 
way  provided  for  gathering  revenue  for  the  Church.  In  his  wisdom 
he  gave  to  us  the  law  of  tithing.  It  is  very  simple,  it  is  very  beautiful, 
In  reading  that  law  nobody  need  to  go  astray  or  to  misunderstand  it. 
It  bears  down  equally  upon  all,  according  to  their  circumstances,  and 
that  idea  alone  is  very  valuable.  For  instance,  if  a  man  is  getting  one 
thousand /dollars  a  month,  he  pays  one  tenth,  or  one  hundred  dollars, 
for  tithing.  If  a  man  is  getting  five  hundred  dollars  a  month,  he  pays 
fifty  dollars  tithing.    If  he  is  getting  thirty  dollars  a  month,  three 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


dollars  tithing.  If  a  man  is  getting  ten  dollars  a  month,  which  is  in- 
conceivable, he  should  pay  one  dollar  in  tithing;  and,  as  I  have  heard 
the  law  explained  by  our  late  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  if  a  widow 
woman  gathers  ten  eggs  from  her  chickens,  she  should  pay  one  egg  for 
tithing,  and  will  then  have  nine  eggs  left  to  go  on  with.  Doubtless 
the  widow  woman  will  not  miss  that  one  egg.  Doubtless  the  man  that 
earns  one  thousand  dollars  a  month,  if  he  will  be  honest  with  the 
Lord  and  pay  his  tithing,  will  not  miss  the  one  hundred  dollars.  The 
Lord  said  to  ancient  Israel:  "Why  have  you  robbed  me?"  Ancient 
Israel  said  to  him:  "Lord,  how  have  we  robbed  thee?"  And  the  an- 
swer was :  "You  have  robbed  me  in  your  tithes  and  offerings."  Now, 
if  we  will  pay  our  tithes  and  offerings,  the  Lord  has  said :  "I  will  open 
the  windows  of  heaven,  and  pour  you  out  a  blessing,  that  there  shall 
not  be  room  enough  to  receive  it."  So  there  is  a  blessing  and  a 
promise  that  go  with  tithing  as  there  is  with  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
The  Lord  bless  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

The  responsibility  that  rests  upon  one  who  occupies  this  position 
would  be  overpowering  but  for  the  knowledge  that  those  who  stand 
here  do  so  in  obedience  to  the  requirement  that  has  been  made  by  our 
heavenly  Father  to  convey  to  the  children  of  men  the  message  of  the 
gospel. 

HOW  MARVELOUS  ARE  THE  WORKS  OF  GOD 

Many  times  during  the  sessions  of  this  conference  my  eyes  have 
been  dimmed  by  tears,  not  necessarily  because  of  the  thing  that  was  said, 
but  because  of  the  influence  that  has  pervaded  this  great  assembly. 
While  enjoying  the  remarks  of  the  brethren  my  mind  has  dwelt  on  the 
opportunities  offered  in  this  great  and  wonderful  universe,  and  I 
have  felt  to  exclaim :  "How  marvelous  are  thy  works,  O  Lord!"  You 
who  are  here  today,  if  you  will  examine  yourselves,  if  you  will  count 
your  many  blessings,  will  say  with  me,  surely  no  people  that  have  ever 
lived  upon  the  earth  have  such  occasion  to  be  thankful  for  the  mercies 
of  our  heavenly  Father  extended  to  them.  Each  of  us  a  weak  instru- 
ment, each  of  us  comparatively  helpless  but  for  the  mercy  of  the  Lord 
that  has  been  and  is  extended  unto  us. 

GRATITUDE  FOR  OUR  MANY  BLESSINGS 

I  am  reminded  of  a  prophet  of  old  who  stated  that  he  was  born 
of  goodly  parents.  How  thankful  we  ought  to  be  for  that  wonderful 
blessing.  I  stand  here  today  as  one  of  the  humblest  among  you,  thank- 
ful beyond  expression  for  my  ancestry,  grateful  for  my  wife  and  my 
children,  appreciative  of  the  opportunity  I  have  of  associating  with  the 
best  men  and  the  best  women  who  live  upon  the  earth.  When  I  realize 
the  former  barrenness  and  sterility  of  the  Western  land,  and  now  see 
this  beautiful  valley  dotted  by  the  homes  of  the  children  of  our  Lord, 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


65 


the  meeting  houses  and  temples  erected  to  him,  and  when  I  behold  these 
wonderful  mountains  capped  by  eternal  snow,  and  realize  that  our 
heavenly  Father  decreed  that  here  his  children  should  have  their  feet 
planted,  and  from  here  should  go  forth  the  word  of  the  Lord,  I  feel 
deeply  grateful  that  I  have  my  humble  home  among  this  people  in  the 
midst  of  these  delightful  surroundings  with  the  privilege  of  entering 
into  the  House  of  the  Lord  to  receive  his  blessings  with  my  brethren 
and  my  sisters. 

When  I  look  into  your  faces  I  realize  that  you  represent  a  great  group 
of  people  who  are  not  here  today,  many  of  whom,  yes  most  of  whom, 
are  of  necessity  as  grateful  as  we  for  the  blessings  that  the  Lord  has  be- 
stowed upon  them.  I  have  mentioned,  only  the  physical  comfort  when  1 
have  referred  to  the  surroundings,  but  the  greater  and  more  precious  gift 
of  our  heavenly  Father  is  the  blessing  that  has  come  to  us  to  know  that 
he  lives,  that  [Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  the  prophet  of 
this  latter  dispensation,  and  that  there  is  upon  this  earth  at  the  present 
time  a  priesthood  endued  with  powef  from  on  high.  What  would  it 
mean  to  us  if  suddenly  there  were  taken  from  us  this  knowledge  ?  How 
would  it  affect  us  if  we  had  to  part  with  the  authority  that  God  hab 
conferred  upon  us  ?  It  would  mean  that  there  had  been  closed  to  us  the 
doors  of  the  celestial  kingdom.  It  would  mean  that  the  crowning 
blessing  toward  which  I  have  been  taught  to  look  since  I  was  a  child 
would  not  be  realized.  That  of  the  companionship  of  my  loved  ones, 
the  association  of  the  father  and  the  mother,  and  I  may  say  mothers, 
for  in  my  case  I  was  fortunate  to  have  two  mothers,  the  companionship 
of  many  other  good  men  and  good  women,  who  are  dear  to  me  almost 
as  life  itself,  could  not  be  enjoyed  in' the  celestial  kingdom.  I  have  been 
taught  to  look  forward  to  the  time  when  I  may  have  their  eternal  com- 
panionship, and  I  rejoice  and  with  deep  gratitude  thank  my  Father  in 
heaven  for  that  assurance. 

GRATEFUL  FOR  A  LIVING  TESTIMONY 

When  I  ponder  over  the  condition  of  the  people  of  this  world, 
the  doubt  that  is  in  the  mind  of  the  human  family,  I  am  reminded  that  it 
is  only  a  repetition  of  history.  Then  people  of  the  earth  during  past 
centuries  have  received  the  ministry  of  our  heavenly  Father,  through 
his  divinely-appointed  servants,  but  because  of  their  indifference,  and 
carelessness,  because  of  selfishness  and  evil,  they  have  forfeited  the 
knowledge  that  God  lives,  and  they  have  turned  from  the  worship  of 
the  true  and  living  God  to  worship  Baal,  and  the  other  false  gods,  that 
men  have  erected  under  the  influence  of  the  adversary  of  all  righteous- 
ness. Today,  as  I  think  of  the  men  who  stand  as  religious  leaders 
among  the  people,  and  observe  how  helpless  they  are  to  inspire  faith 
in  the  minds  and  lives  of  individuals,  and  realize  that  in  the  mercy  of 
the  Lord  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  received,  not  something  that  is  un- 
certain, but  a  living  individual  testimony  that  has  been  born  into  the 
lives  of  each  soul  who  has  complied  with  the  simple  requirements  of  our 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


heavenly  Father,  namely — faith  in  him,  repentance  of  sin,  baptism  by 
immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  the  laying  on  of  hands  for 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  I  am  profoundly  grateful.  Without  ex- 
ception, each  repentant  baptized  believer  who  has  complied  with  these 
requirements  of  the  Lord  has  received  a  witness  for  himself  that  this 
is  our  Father's  work. 

THE  FAITHLESS  CONDITION  OF  THE  WORLD 

Observing  the  faithless  condition  of  the  world  today  I  am  con- 
strained to  read  to  you  from  a  portion  of  the  record  of  Mormon  as 
contained  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  as  inscribed  on  plates  and  buried 
in  the  Hill  Cumorah  by  Moroni.    He  says : 

"And  now,  I  speak  also  concerning  those  who  do  not  believe  in  Christ 
"Behold,  will  ye  believe  in  the  day  of  your  visitation — behold,  when  the 
Lord  shall  come,  yea,  even  that  great  day  when  the  earth  shall  be  rolled  to- 
gether as  a  scroll,  and  the  elements  shall  melt  with  fervent  neat,  yea,  in  that 
great  day  when  he  shall  be  brought  to  stand  before  the  Lamb  of  God — then  will 
ye  say  that  there  is  no  God? 

"Then  will  ye  longer  deny  the  Christ,  or  can  ye  behold  tfie  Lamb  of  God? 
Do  ye  suppose  that  ye  shall  dwell  with  him  under  a  consciousness  of  your 
guilt?  Do  ye  suppose  that  ye  could  be  happy  to  dwell  with  that  holy  Being,  when 
your  souls  are  racked  with  a  consciousness  of  guilt  that  ye  have  ever  abused  his 
laws? 

"Behold,  I  say  unto  you  that  ye  would  be  more  miserable  to  dwell  with  a 
holy  and  just  God,  under  a  consciousness  of  your  filthiness  before  him,  than 
ye  would  dwell  with  the  damned  souls  in  hell. 

"For  behold,  when  ye  shall  be  brought  to  see  your  nakedness  before  God, 
and  also  the  glory  of  God,  and  the  holiness  of  Jesus  Christ,  it  will  kindle  a 
flame  of  unquenchable  fire  upon  yyou." 

CALL  TO  REPENTANCE 

Brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  the  record  that  was  written  by  this 
man  hundreds  of  years  ago.  As  I  said,  history  repeats  itself.  If  there 
had  been  time  I  might  have  referred  to  the  various  dispensations  when 
the  Lord  has  revealed  himself.  I  am  now  reading  from  one  of  the 
dispensations  as  recorded  in  the  Book  of  Mormon: 

"O  then  ye  unbelieving,  turn  ye  unto  the  Lord ;  cry  mightily  unto  the  Father 
in  the  name  of  Jesus,  that  perhaps  ye  may  be  found  spotless,  pure,  fair,  and 
white,  having  been  cleansed  by  the  blood  of  the  Lamb,  at  that  great  and  last  day. 

"And  again  I  speak  unto  jrou  who  deny  the  revelations  of  God,  and  say  that 
they  are  done  away,  that  there  are  no  revelations,  nor  prophecies,  nor  gifts,  nor 
healing,  nor  speaking  with  tongues,  and  the  interpretation  of  tongues ; 

"Behold  I  say  unto  you,  he  that  denieth  these  things  knoweth  not  the  gospel 
of  Christ;  yea,  he  has  not  read  the  scriptures;  if  so,  he  does  not  understand  them. 

"For  do  we  not  read  that  God  is  the  same  yesterday,  today,  and  forever,  and 
in  him  there  is  no  variableness  neither  shadow  of  changing? 

"And  now,  if  ye  have  imagined  up  unto  yourselves  a  god  who  doth  vary, 
and  in  whom  there  is  a  shadow  of  changing,  then  have  ye  imagined  up  unto 
yourselves  a  god  who  is  not  a  God  of  miracles. 

"But  behold,  I  will  show  unto  you  a  God  of  miracles,  even  the  God  of 
Abraham,  and  the  God  of  Isaac,  and  the  God  of  Jacob ;  and  it  is  that  same  God 
who  created  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  and  all  things  that  in  them  are. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


67 


"Behold,  he  created  Adam,  and  by  Adam  came  the  fall  of  man.  And  because 
of  the  fall  of  man  came  Jesus  Christ,  even  the  Father  and  the  Son;  and  because 
of  Jesus  Christ  came  the  redemption  of  man. 

"And  because  of  the  redemption  of  man,  which  came  by  Jesus  Christ,  they 
are  brought  back  into  the  presence  of  the  Lord;  yea,  this  is  wherein  all  men  are 
redeemed,  because  the  death  of  Christ  bringeth  to  pass  the  resurrection,  which 
bringeth  to  pass  a  redemption  from  an  endless  sleep,  from  which  sleep  all  men 
shall  be  awakened  by  the  power  of  God  when  the  trumpet  shall  sound ;  and  they 
shall  come  forth,  both  small  and  great,  and  all  shall  stand  before  his  bar,  being 
redeemed  and  loosed  from  this  eternal  band  of  death,  which  death  is  a  temporal 
death. 

"And  then  cometh  the  judgment  of  the  Holy  One  upon  them;  and  then 
cometh  the  time  that  he  that  is  filthy  shall  be  filthy  still;  and  he  that  is  righteous 
shall  be  righteous  still ;  he  that  is  happy  shall  be  happy  still ;  and  he  that  is  un- 
happy shall  be  unhappy  still. 

"And  now,  O  all  ye  that  have  imagined  up  unto  yourselves  a  god  who  can 
do  no  miracles,  I  would  ask  of  you,  have  all  these  things  passed,  of  which  J 
have  spoken  ?  Has  the  end  come  yet  ?  Behold  I  say  unto  you,  Nay ;  and  God 
lias  not  ceased  to  be  a  God  of  miracles. 

"Behold,  are  not  the  things  that  God  hath  wrought  marvelous  in  our  eyes  ? 
Yea,  and  who  can  comprehend  the  marvelous  works  of  God? 

"Who  shall  say  that  it  was  not  a  miracle  that  by  his  word  the  heaven  and 
the  earth  should  be;  and  by  the  power  of  his  word  man  was  created  of  the  dust 
of  the  earth;  and  by  the  power  of  his  word  have  miracles  been  wrought? 

"And  who  shall  say  that  Jesus  Christ  did  not  do  many  mighty  miracles? 
And  there  were  many  mighty  miracles  wrought  by  the  hands  of  the  apostles. 

"And  if  there  were  miracles  wrought  then,  why  has  God  ceased  to  be  a  God 
of  miracles  and  yet  be  an  unchangable  Being?  And  behold,  I  say  unto  you  he 
changeth  not ;  if  so  he  would  cease  to  be  God ;  and  he  ceaseth  not  to  be  God ;  and 
is  a  God  of  miracles. 

"And  the  reason  why  he  ceaseth  to  do  miracles  among  the  children  of  men 
is  because  that  they  dwindle  in  unbelief." 

Remember  he  was  preaching  the  gospel  to  the  unbelievers.  I  want 
to  repeat  the  last  clause. 

"And  the  reason  why  he  ceaseth  to  do  miracles  among  the  children  of  men 
is  because  that  they  dwindle  in  unbelief,  and  depart  from  the  right  way,  and 
know  not  ;the  God  in  whom  they  should  trust. 

"Behold,  I  say  unto  you  that  whoso  believeth  in  Christ,  doubting  nothing, 
whatsoever  he  shall  ask  the  Father  in  the  name  of  Christ  it  shall  be  granted 
him;  and  this  promise  is  unto  all,  even  unto  the  ends  of  the  earth. 

"For  behold,  thus  sairh  Jesus  Christ,  the  Sen  of  God,  unto  his  disciples  who 
should  tarry,  yea,  and  also  to  all  his  disciples,  in  the  hearing  of  the  multitude : 
Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature. 

"And  he  that  believeth  and  is  baptized  shall  be  saved,  but  he  that  believeth 
not  shall  be  damned; 

"And  these  signs  shajl  follow  them  that  believe — in  my  name  shall  they  cast 
"  out  devils ;  they  shall  speak  with  new  tongues ;  they  shall  take  up  serpents ;  and 
if  they  drink  any  deadly  thing  it  shall  not  hurt  them;  they  shall  lay  hands  on  the 
sick  and  they  shall  recover; 

"And  whosoever  shall  believe  in  my  name,  doubting  nothing,  unto  him  will 
I  confirm  all  my  words,  even  unto  the  ends  of  the  earth. 

"And  now,  behold,  who  can  stand  against  the  works  of  the  Lord?  Who  can 
deny  his  sayings?  Who  will  rise  up  against  the  almighty  power  of  the  Lord? 
Who  will  despise  the  works  of  the  Lord?  Who  will  despise  the  children  of 
Christ?  Behold,  all  ye  who  are  despisers  of  the  works  of  the  Lord,  for  ye  shall 
wonder  and  perish. 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"O  then  despise  not,  and  wonder  not,  but  hearken  unto  the  words  of  the 
Lord,  and  ask  the  Father  in  the  name  of  Jesus  for  what  things  soever  ye  shall 
stand  in  need.  Doubt  not,  but  be  believing',  and  begin  as  in  times  of  old,  and  come 
unto  the  Lord  with  all  your  heart,  and  work  out  your  own  salvation  with  fear  and 
trembling  before  him. 

"Be  wise  in  the  days  of  your  probation ;  strip  yourselves  of  all  uncleanness ; 
ask  not  that  ye  may  consume  it  on  your  lusts,,\but  ask  with  a  firmness  unshaken, 
that  ye  will  yield  to  no  temptation,  but  that  ye  will  serve  the  true  and  living  God. 

"See  that  ye  are  not  baptized  unworthily ;  see  that  ye  partake  not  of  the 
sacrament  of  Christ  unworthily;  but  see  that  ye  do  all  things  in  worthiness,  and 
do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God;  and  if  ye  do  this, 
and  endure  to  the  end,  ye  will  in  nowise  be  cast  out. 

'^Behold,  /  speak  unto  you  as  though  I  spake  from  the  dead;  for  I  know  that 
ye  shall  hear  my  zuords." 

This  man  was  the  one  who  completed  the  record.  This  man  hid 
it  away,  and  yet  it  seems  almost  as  if  it  were  his  dying  witness  unto 
the  children  of  men.  He  calls  attention  to  the  fact  that  these  words 
will  reach  them,  and  by  the  power  of  God  they  have  reached  hundreds 
of  thousands,  yea  millions,  of  the  children  of  men  who  dwell  upon  the 
earth.  He  was  a  prophet  of  the  Lord.  He  had  the  authority  to  speak  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord.  He  did  testify  without  fear  of  the  things  that 
he  knew  were  necessary  for  the  salvation  of  men.  He  bore  witness  of 
the  power  that  comes  to  those  who  possess  the  holy  Priesthood,  and  in 
this  day  in  which  we  live,  although  hundreds  of  years  have  elapsed, 
his  testimony  has  been  brought  forth  by  the  gift  and  power  of  God, 
translated  and  printed  and  scattered  broadcast  among  the  human  family, 
as  another  witness  of  the  divinity  of  our  Lord  and  Master. 

THE  GOSPEL  A  PANACEA  FOR  THE  ILLS  OF  MANKIND 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  thank  my  heavenly  Father  for  the  bless- 
ing' that  comes  to  me  this  day.  I  am  grateful  to  him  for  everything 
that  I  enjoy.  I  thank  him  for  your  companionship,  and  for  the  comfort 
and  satisfaction  that  I  enjoy,  as  I  visit  to  and  fro  in  the  stakes  of 
Zion,  and  in  the  missionary  field  in  seeing  men  and  women  like  your- 
selves who  are  anxious  to  know  the  will  of  our  heavenly  Father,  and 
who  in  their  hearts  are  saying:  "Father  in  heaven,  show  me  thy  will 
and  I  will  endeavor  to  keep  thy  commandments."  In  the  past  two 
months  I  have  traveled  more  than  eleven  thousand  miles  in  this  wonder- 
ful land  of  America,  from  the  eastern  seaboard  to  the  western  sea- 
board. I  have  borne  witness  of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  I  have  found 
great  and  good  men  outside  the  pale  of  this,  or  of  any  church,  who  are 
apparently  anxious  to  know  what  the  end  will  be  as  a  result  of  the 
condition  that  this  world  finds  itself  in.  It  has  been  my  privilege  to 
explain  to  some  of  these  my  faith  in  the  divine  mission  of  Jesus  Christ, 
my  knowledge  that  our  heavenly  Father  loves  his  children,  as  he  always 
has  done ;  the  assurance  that  has  burned  into  my  soul,  for  which  I  am 
grateful,  that  I  know  that  the  work  of  our  heavenly  Father  is  upon  the 
earth,  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  will  solve  the  problem  and  be  a  pan-  - 
acea  for  the  ills  that  afflict  mankind.  I  have  borne  witness  of  this,  and  I 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


69 


have  found  response  in  the  hearts  of  some  of  these  our  Father's  children 
who  do  not  understand  the  truth.  Again  let  me  express  my  gratitude  for 
the  blessings  that  I  enjoy.  My  heart  is  full  of  thanksgiving  for  all 
that  has  been  bestowed  upon  me  and  upon  you.  God  grant  that  we 
may  sustain  his  name  and  his  Church,  that  we  will  uphold  the  hands 
of  those  who  preside  over  us,  and  by  so  doing  continue  to  be  worthy  of 
that  assurance  that  passeth  understanding,  that  we  are  indeed  the  chil- 
dren of  God,  heirs  of  salvation  in  his  celestial  kingdom,  as  a  result 
of  observing  his  laws  and  keeping  his  commandments,  is  my  prayer, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  ladies'  chorus  sang,  "Beneath  the  Lord's  safe  wing,"  accom- 
panied by  Mrs.  Ellen  Sheimer  on  the  violin  and  Miss  R.  Matsen  on 
the  piano,  John  J.  McClellan  at  the  organ. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

A  great  orator  standing  before  his  audience  made  use  of  this  ap- 
peal: "Friends,  Romans,  countrymen — lend  me  your  ears."  I  have 
no  thought  of  attempting  an  oration  on  this  occasion,  or  on  any  oc- 
casion, but  in  a  very  humble  way  to  speak  to  you.  I  am  not  asking 
for  your  attention,  but  I  do  crave  your  hearts,  your  faith  and  a  silent 
prayer  that  the  Lord,  by  his  holy  Spirit,  will  lead  me  to  say  the  things 
he  would  have  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  to  hear.  I  feel 
very  greatly  honored  in  being  called  to  address  this  large  congregation 
on  the  afternoon  of  the  Sunday  of  our  general  conference.  I  also 
feel  a  very  great  responsibility  in  undertaking  to  lead  in  thought  those 
who  are  present,  and  others,  perhaps  hundreds  of  thousands,  who  are 
hearing  my  words  this  aftenoon  as  they  are  broadcasted  over  the 
nation. 

IN  HARMONY  WITH  THE  SPIRIT  OF  THE  CONFERENCE 

I  want  to  say  that  I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  the  proceedings  of  this 
conference  thus  far,  in  the  spirit  of  the  occasion,  in  the  beautiful  music 
which  has  been  rendered,  the  testimonies  which  have  been  borne,  and 
the  instructions  which  have  been  imparted.  I  feel  that  I  am  in  com- 
plete harmony  with  this  spirit,  and  with  all  the  proceedings  of  the 
conference ;  that  I  can  endorse  without  reservation  the  instructions  which 
have  been  given,  and  that  I  can  join  my  brethren  with  sincere  testimony 
that  I  do-  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  the  plan  and  power  of 
God  for  man's  salvation. 

I  rejoice  exceedingly  that  I  was  born  of  Latter-day  Saint  parent- 
age, and  that  my  heart  has  been  inclined  to  love  and  obey  the  truth. 
I  sincerely  regret  my  imperfections  and  follies  of  life,  and  trust  fhat 
my  repentance  may  be  genuine  and  enduring  that  my  sins  may  be  for- 
given.   I  desire  to  yield  obedience  unto  every  requirement  of  the  gospel 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  to  do  the  will  of  the  Lord  in  all  things  and  to  use  my  influence 
with  others  persuading  them  to  do  likewise. 

LOVE  OF  GOD  THE  FIRST  GREAT  COMMANDMENT 

The  ideals  held  up  before  us  are  greater  perhaps  than  those  pos- 
sessed by  any  other  people  in  the  world.  The  gospel  law  which  has 
come  to  us  is  that  by  which  our  Savior  lived.  It  was  the  living  of  the 
gospel  that  made  him  what  he  was,  and  what  he  is,  the  glorified  Son  of 
God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  It  is  our  privilege  to  follow  in  his 
footsteps,  observing  the  same  high  standard  of  life,  yielding  obedience 
unto  law  and1  authority,  and  to  fcecome  joint  heirs  with  him  in  all  that 
our  Father  possesses.  It  is  my  constant  desire  and  prayer  that  I  may 
be  able  to  obey  fully  that  first  great  commandment — to  love  the  Lord 
my  iGod  with  all  my  heart,  with  all  my  soul,  and  with  all  my  mind ;  and 
in  order  that  I  may  do  so,  I  need  to  count  my  "blessings  often,  naming 
them  o'er  and  o'er,  that  by  so  doing  I  may  appreciate  more  and  more 
the  mercy  and  kindness  of  my  heavenly  Father  to  me.  This  increases 
my  love  for  him,  and  I  believe  it  gives  me  strength  and  power  better  to 
meet  the  requirements  of  the  gospel,  that  are  made  upon  me. 

LOVE  OF  FELLOWMEN  THE  SECOND  GREAT  COMMANDMENT 

I  desire  also  to  observe,  as  fully  as  possible,  that  second  great 
commandment,  to  love  my  neighbor  as  myself,  and  this  is  perhaps  more 
difficult.  I  know  that  I  should  so  love  my  fellowmen,  that  I  would 
be  able  and  willing  to  suffer  for  them,  and  even  to  die  for  them  if 
necessary,  as  Christ  has  died  for  me.  I  ought  so  to  love  mankind  that 
I  would  be  willing  to  go  to  the  ends  of  the  earth  in  the  preaching  of  this 
gospel  of  the  kingdom  to  them.  I  should  so  love  them  that  I  would  be 
abe  to'  meet  insult  and  injury,  persecution  and  even  death  without  hav- 
ing in  my  soul  the  spirit  of  retaliation.  If  I  were  observing  this  second 
great  commandment  as  I  ought  to  do,  I  would  feel  as  did  the  Prophet 
Stephen  when  he  was  being  stoned  to  death,  who  prayed :  "Lord,  lay 
not  this  sin  to  their  charge;"  or  as  did  the  Savior,  while  upon  the  cross, 
who  in  his  suffering  and  dying  moments,  prayed  the  Father  to  forgive 
those  who  were  putting  him  to  death,  for,  said  he,  "they  know  not  what 
they  do."  Men  of  the  world  do  not  understand  the  things  of  the  Spirit 
of  God  for  they  are  known  only  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  which  gave  them. 
Some  men  while  thinking  that  they  are  doing  God  service,  are  working 
directly  against  his  will  and  purposes,  and  some  not  only  persecute 
but  kill  those  who  are  trying  to  serve  the  Lord  and  to  be  messengers 
of  righteousness  for  him. 

THE  EXAMPLE  OF  PAUL 

There  is  the  case  of  Saul  of  Tarsus.  I  think  that  his  case  should 
ever  be  before  us — a  man  of  intelligence,  educated  at  the  feet  of  Ga- 
maliel, living  among  the  Saints  of  his  day,  and  yet  he  engaged  with 
those  who  persecuted  the  Saints,  even  holding  the  clothes  of  those  who 
stoned  to  death  the  Prophet  Stephen,  and  yet  when  the  Lord  took  him 
in  hand  and  converted  him,  he  became  the  great  Paul  the  Apostle  to  the 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


71 


Gentiles,  and  was  ready  to  endure  any  kind  of  persecution  or  death  for 
the  gospel's  sake.  After  this  conversion  he  made  the  declaration  that 
what  he  did  while  persecuting  the  Saints  he  did  conscientiously,  be- 
lieving that  he  was  doing  God  service.  So,  brethren  and  sisters,  we 
ought  to  look  upon  the  world  of  mankind  with  a  great  degree  of  le- 
niency and  of  charity.  We  should  realize  that  while  they  may  be  zeal- 
ous in  their  opposition  to  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  and  to  us 
as  a  people,  they  may  be  conscientious  and,  if  so,  the  mercy  of  God 
will  reach  out  to  them. 

IMPRESSED  WITH  THE  GREAT  NUMBERS  OF  THE  SAINTS 

I  have  been  impressed,  in  this  conference,  with  the  numbers  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  with  their  faithfulness.  This  vast  congregation, 
filling  the  tabernacle  to  overflowing,  represents  possibly  two  percent 
of  the  present  population  of  the  Church.  I  estimate  that  it  would  take 
about  fifty  such  tabernacles  to  hold  all  of  the  present  merribership  of  the 
Church.  Then,  remember  that  tomorrow  will  be  the  ninety-fifth  an- 
niversary of  the  birth  of  this  Church  organization.  And  think  of  all 
the  faithful  men  and  women  who  during  these  ninety-five  years  have 
been  members  of  this  Church,  have  lived  their  lives  of  faithfulness  and 
have  gone  beyond,  and  we  will  then  begin  to  realize  the  magnitude  of 
this  work  and  what  has  been  accomplished. 

TEMPLE  WORK  THE  PAST  YEAR — ITS  IMPORTANCE 

In  the  temples  of  the  Church  there  have  been  477,000  baptisms  for 
the  dead  performed  during  the  past  year,  and  more  than  half  that 
number  of  endowments  have  been  administered.  When  we  think  of  this 
and  realize  that  with  each  succeeding  year  there  j  will  be  an  increasing 
number  of  such  'baptisms,  we  will  begin  to  realize  the  growth  of  the 
Church,  especially  if  we  may  properly  call  those  dead  persons  as  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  for  whom  baptism  has  been  performed. 

President  Wilford  Woodruff,  speaking  from  this  stand,  upon  the 
importance  of  this  work  devolving  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints,  the  re- 
deeming of  their  dead,  said : 

"Ninety-nine  out  of  every  hundred,"  yea,  said  he,  "nine  hundred 
ninety-nine  out  of  every  thousand  of  those  for  whom  this  work  is 
done  vicariously  will  gladly  receive  the  work."  I  feel  sure  the  Lord  is 
pleased  with  what  the  Saints  have  done  in  the  way  of  preaching  the 
gospel  in  all  the  world  as  a  witness  before  the  end  shall  come.  If  it 
is  possible  for  us  to  increase  our  efforts  and  our  numbers,  and!  do  a 
greater  work,  of  course  we  are  anxious  to  do  it.  We  should  neglect  no 
part  of  this  great  responsibility  resting  upon  us,  toward  the  living  and 
the  dead,  looking  to  their  salvation ;  for  it  is  the  work  and  purpose  of  the 
Eternal  Father  to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man. 

AN  EVIDENCE  OF  THE  FAITH  AND  DEVOTION  OF  THE  SAINTS 

I  feel  very  happy,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  in  your  fellowship,  and  the  association  which  I  have  with  you 
and  in  observing  your  faithfulness.    Just  one  week  ago  today,  while  I 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


was  visiting  in  the  Uintah  stake  of  Zion,  a  count  was  made  of  those 
present,  which  revealed  the  fact  that  twenty-seven  percent  of  the  entire 
population  of  that  stake,  were  in  attendance. '  We  have  had  higher  per- 
centages and  lower.  Circumstances  are  not  alike  in  all  the  stakes,  but 
to  me  this  is  an  evidence  of  faithfulness  and  devotion  on  the  part  of 
the  people.  We  have  hundreds  and  thousands  of  men  in  the  various 
stakes  of  Zion  who  scrupulously  observe  to  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
and  who  are  paying  their  tithes  and  who  are  devoting  days,  months 
and  years  of  their  time,  and  giving  of  their  ability  to  carry  on  this 
work.  Men  and  women  could  not  be  expected  to  do  such  things  if  they 
did  not  know  of  the  truth  of  this  work,  that  it  is  God's  work  and  not 
man's.  I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  which  my  brethren  and  sisters  have 
of  its  divinity. 

AS  TO  MATTERS  FINANCIAL 

I  am  happy  today,  'brethren  and  sisters,  because  the  day  before 
the  opening  of  this  conference  I  issued  my  check  in  favor  of  the  bishop 
of  my  ward  for  the  amount  of  my  tithing  in  full.  Oh,  some  may  say : 
What  does  that  amount  to  ?  It  amounts  only  to  a  tenth  of  my  interest, 
T>ut  that  is  more  than  some  do.  I  would  to  the  Lord  that  all  the  mem- 
bers of  this  Church  could  say  that  they  have  paid  their  tithing  in  full,  a 
tenth  of  their  interest  and  of  their  earnings.  It  is  only  a  little  thing 
but  it  makes  me  very  happy.  The  day  before  the  opening  of  this  con- 
ference I  drew  my  check  to  redeem  a  note,  the  last  note  that  stands 
against  me,  and  today  I  am  out  of  debt,  a  very  happy  man.  I  thank 
God  for  this.  It  is  not  much,  is  it  ?  I  wish  all  the  Latter-day  Saints 
could  say  as  much  in  truth.  In  my  associations  among  the  people  in 
the  stakes  I  have  observed  their  financial  distress,  and  bondage,  and 
my  heart  has  been  made  sore  and  in  a  sense  to  bleed  because  of  this. 
I  believe  that  much  of  it,  brethren  and  sisters,  might  have  been  averted 
had  we  given  a  little  more  careful  thought  and  consideration,  and  exer- 
cised a  little  more  wisdom  before  making  our  investments  and  specula- 
tions. Oh,  brethren,  if  we  would  go  to  the  Lord  in  that  same  earnestness 
before  making  these  speculations  that  we  do  when  we  find  ourselves  in 
trouble,  asking  him  to  help  us  to  extricate  ourselves,  I  am  sure  we  would 
be  kept  out  of  much  of  this  difficulty.  Brethren,  we  ought  not  to  invest 
in  anything,  nor  to  engage  in  any  enterprise  that  we  cannot  take  to 
the  Lord  or  to  our  brethren  and  ask  advice  and  counsel  upon,  and  con- 
scientiously ask  God's  blessings  upon  it.  Now  I  admonish  my  brethren 
and  sisters — for  the  brethren  should  take  counsel  with  their  wives — that 
they  heed  the  admonition  of  the  authorities  of  this  Church,  keep  out  of 
debt.  If  you  are  in  debt,  practice  economy,  pay  your  just  debts  and  obli- 
gations as  soon  as  you  can,  and  make  peace  with  your  fellowmen,  with 
the  Lord,  and  with  your  own  conscience ;  then  you  will  be  happy ;  also  be 
faithful  in  meeting  your  obligations  with  the  Lord  and  you  shall  be 
saved. 

May  God  help  and  bless  all  to  this  end,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ/  Amen., 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


73 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

"Then  Jesus  said  to  those  Jews  which  believed  on  him,  If  ye  continue  in  my 
work,  then  are  ye  my  disciples  indeed; 

"And  ye  shall  know  the  truth,  and  the  truth  shall  make  you  free." 

IN  DEFENSE  OF  THE  MISSION  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 

We  have  heard  during  this  conference  from  a  number  of  the 
speakers  concerning  the  condition  that  prevails  throughout  the  world ;  a 
condition  of  unbelief  in  the  mission  of  Jesus  Christ  and  a  division 
among  those  who  profess  to  follow  him.  Some  of  those  who  have 
spoken  at  this  conference  have  read  from  the  Scriptures  wherein  the 
prophets  of  old  refer  to  the  condition  which  should  prevail  in  the  dispen- 
sation of  the  fullness  of  times.  One  of  the  speakers  this  afternoon  read 
from  the  Book  of  Mormon  certain  prophecies  concerning  the  latter  days, 
which  prophecies  are  very  dear  to  me.  In  fact,  as  I  read  this  volume  of 
Scripture  I  am  impressed  more  and  more  with  its  sacredness,  with  the 
message  which  it  contains  in  defense  of  the  mission  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  and  the  gospel  which  has  been  restored  in  the  dispensation  of 
the  fulness  of  times  for  the  salvation  of  souls.  This  record  endears 
itself  to  me  more  and  more  day  by  day  as  I  see  unfolded  the  fulfillment 
of  prophecies  uttered  by  these  prophets  who  now  speak  from  the  dead, 
and  from  the  dust  to  the  nations  of  the  earth,  crying  unto  them  re- 
pentance, and  calling  upon  them  to  believe  in  Christ. 

PROPHECY  CONCERNING  CONDITIONS  THAT  WOULD  PREVAIL 

I  am  going  to  read  one  or  two  other  verses  from  a  prophecy 
that  was  uttered  several  hundred  years  before  the  coming  of  Christ, 
concerning  conditions  that  would  prevail  in  the  world  in  this  our  day: 

"For  the  kingdom  of  the  devil  must  shake,  and  they  .which  belong  to  it 
must  needs  be  stirred  up  unto  repentance,  or  the  devil  will  grasp  them  with  his 
everlasting  chains,  and  they  be  stirred  up  to  anger,  and  perish; 

"For  behold,  at  that  day  shall  he  rage  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men, 
and  stir  them  up  to  anger  against  that  which  is  good. 

"And  others  will  he  pacify,  and  lull  them  away  into  carnal  security,  that  they 
will  say :  All  is  well  in  Zion ;  yea,  Zion  prospereth,  all  is  well — and  thus  the 
devil  cheateth  their  souls,  and  leadeth  them  away  carefully  down  to  hell. 

"And  behold,  others  he  flattereth  away,  and  telleth  them  there  is  no  hell; 
and  he  saith  unto  them :  I  am  no  devil,  for  there  is  none — and  thus  he  whispereth 
in  their  ears,  until  he  grasps  them  with  his  awful  chains,  from  whence  there  is 
no  deliverance. 

"Yea,  they  are  grasped  with  death,  and  hell;  and  death,  and  hell,  and  the 
devil,  and  all  that  have  been  siezed  therewith  must  stand  before  the  throne  of 
God,  and  be  judged  according  to  their  works,  from  whence  they  must  go  into 
the  place  prepared  for  them,  even  a  lake  of  fire  and  brimstone,  which  is  endless 
torment." 

THE   MISSION   OF  THE   LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

That  is  the  condition  we  find  in  the  world  today,  just  as  Nephi 
declared  it  should  be;  but  the  mission  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  to 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


preach  Christ  and  him  crucified.  The  passage  from  the  8th  chapter  of 
John  is  a  key  by  which  we  may  know  the  truth  ,and  by  which  we  may 
walk  in  the  light  and  in  the  understanding  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  neither  faltering,  nor  turning  to  the  right  hand  nor  to  left,  but 
pursuing  our  steady  course  in  righteousness  and  in  truth,  in  full  knowl- 
edge that  Christ  lives  and  that  he  has  spoken,  that  he  has  revealed 
the  power  of  the  Priesthood,  that  he  has  organized  his  Church,  and 
that  there  is  salvation  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  for  all  who  will  repent 
and  receive  the  gospel.  We  shall  know  the  truth  if  we  will  only  do  his 
will,  and  the  truth  will  make  us  free.  There  is  no  virtue  in  doubt. 
The  man  who  doubts  concerning  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  the  rev- 
elations of  the  Lord,  the  plan  of  salvation,  is  unfortunate.  There  is 
no  reason  for  it,  because  as  I  have  said,  the  key  has  been  given  unto 
us  by  which  the  door  may  be  unlocked  to  knowledge  so  that  men  may 
say:  "I  know,"  and  all  doubt  is  removed. 

CONCERNING  DOUBTS  AND  DOUBTING 

I  have  been  very  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  one  blessing  that  I  have 
received  that  I  suppose  was  born  with  me,  and  that  is  the  blessing  of 
faith  in  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  his  mission. 
I  do  not  doubt.  I  have  always  accepted  fully,  and  received  the  in- 
spiration, I  believe,  through  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  that  these  things 
are  true,  and  I  hope  that  I  may  always  walk  in  the  light,  that  1  may 
always  possess  this  spirit  and  this  understanding.  I  know  there  are 
those  even  among  us  who  are  not  so  fortunate,  they  do  have  doubts 
arise  in  their  minds,  they  are  troubled  at  times.  Many  things  pertain- 
ing to  the  dispensation  in  which  we  live,  the  revelations  of  the  Lord, 
are  to  them  mysterious,  they  cannot  square  them  with  other  things 
that  they  have  heard,  or  perhaps  accepted,  which  are  given  through  the 
spirit  of  man.  The  safe  course  is  to  follow  the  revelations  of  the  Lord. 
It  matters  not  what  men  have  said,  it  matters  not  what  they  may 
teach  in  their  own  wisdom,  if  that  is  in  conflict  with  the  revelations 
of  the  Lord  we  need  not  accept  it,  for  we  have,  as  has  been  pointed 
out :  "The  more  sure  word  of  prophecy,"  by  which  we  need  not  stumble 
nor  falter  nor  be  in  doubt.  Occasionally  some  one  arises  who  feels 
that  it  is  his  duty  to  inform  the  world  that  the  old  members  of  the 
Church  are  still  faithful  in  the  doctrines  that  were  taught  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  and  by  President  Brigham  Young,  but  that  the  rising 
generation  is  departing  from  such  things,  that  the  children  of  these 
fathers  are  turning  from  the  teachings  of  their  fathers,  as  they  put 
it.  I  am  here  to  testify  that  this  is  not  true.  There  may  be,  of  course, 
and  are,  those  among  us  who  are  not  faithful,  who  do  turn  from  the 
footsteps  of  their  fathers.  It  has  always  been  so.  We  may  expect 
that  in  some  cases  it  will  continue,  but  so  far  as  the  Latter-day  Saints 
are  concerned,  the  majority  of  them  will  not  turn  from  the  faith  of 
their  fathers.  It  is  not  destined  that  such  should  be  the  case,  for  when 
this  gospel  was  restored  the  Lord  declared  through  his  servants  who 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  ?$ 


came  from  the  heavens  with  the  message  of  salvation,  that  the  gospel 
was  restored  for  the  last  time,  and  that  it  must  grow  and  increase 
and  the  knowledge  grow  and  spread  until  it  shall  fill  the  whole  earth. 
That  is  the  destiny  of  the  thing  the  world  calls  "Mormonism."  •  So 
they  are  wrong  in  their  conclusions  when  they  expect  the  children  to 
depart  from  the  teachings  of  their  fathers. 

Now  to  return  to  the  question  of  doubt,  and  the  testimony  of  the 
truth :  I  desire  to  read  to  you  a  few  passages  upon  this  point  which 
I  consider  to  be  significant  and  worthy  of  consideration.  These  words 
were  uttered  in  the  early  years  of  the  organization  of  the  Church : 

"As  faith,  then,  is  the  principle  by  which  the  heavenly  hosts  perform  their 
works,  and  by  which  they  enjoy  all  their  felicity,  we  might  expect  to  find  it  set 
forth  in  a  revelation  from  God  as  the  principle  upon  which  his  creatures  here 
below  must  act  in  ord,er  to  obtain  the  felicities  enjoyed  by  the  saints  in  the 
eternal  world." — Lectures  on  Faith,  7 :6. 

"And  again: 

"Let  us  here  observe  that  a  religion  that  does  not  require  the  sacrifice  of 
all  things  never  has  power  sufficient  to  produce  the  faith  necessary  unto  life 
and  salvation;  for,  from  the  first  existence  of  man,  the  faith  necessary  unto 
the  enjoyment  of  life  and  salvation  never  could  be  obtained  without  the  sacrifice 
of  all  earthly  things.  It  was  through  this  sacrifice,  and  this  only,  that  God  has 
ordained  that  men  should  enjoy  eternal  life;  and  it  is  through  the  medium  of  the 
sacrifice  of  all  earthly  things  that  men  do  actually  know  that  they  are  doing  the 
things  that  are  well  pleasing  in  the  sight  of  God.  When  a  man  has  offered  in 
sacrifice  all  that  he  has  for  the  truth's  sake,  not  even  withholding  his  life,  and 
believing  before  God  that  he  has  been  called  to  make  this  sacrifice  because  he 
seeks  to  do  his  will,  he  does  know,  most  assuredly,  that  God  does  'and  will  accept 
his  sacrifice  and  offering,  and  that  he  has  not  sought,  nor  will  he  seek,  his  face 
in  vain.  Under  these  circumstances,  then,  he  can  obtain  the  faith  necessary  for 
him  to  lay  hold  on  eternal  life. 

"It  is  in  vain  for  persons  to  fancy  to  themselves  that  they  are  heirs  with 
those,  or  can  be  heirs  with  them,  who  have  offered  their  all  in  sacrifice,  and 
by  this  means  obtained  faith  in  God,  and  favor  with  him  so  as  to  obtain  eternal 
life,  unless  they,  in  like  manner,  offer  unto  him  the  same  sacrifice,  and  through 
that  offering  obtain  the  knowledge  that  they  are  accepted  of  him. 

"It  was  in  offering  sacrifices  that  Abel,  the  first  martyr,  obtained  knowledge 
that  he  was  accepted  of  God.  And  from  the  days  of  righteous  Abel  to  the 
present  time,  the  knowledge  that  men  have  that  they  are  accepted  in  the  sight 
of  God  is  obtained  by  offering  sacrifice.  And  in  the  last  days,  before  the  Lord 
comes,  he  is  to  gather  together  his  saints  who  have  made  covenant  with  him 
by  sacrifice.  (Psalm  1,  3,  4,  5':  'Our  God  shall  come  and  shall  not  keep 
silence :  a  fire  shall  devour  him,  and  it  shall  be  very  tempestuous  round  about  him. 
He  shall  call  to  the  heavens  from  above,  and  to  the  earth,  that  he  may  judge 
his  people.  Gather  my  saints  together  unto  me;  those  that  have  made  a  cove- 
nant with  me  by  sacrifice.' 

"Those,  then,  who  make  sacrifice,  will  have  the  testimony  that  their  course 
is  pleasing  in  the  sight  of  God;  and  those  who  have  this  testimony  will  have 
faith  to  lay  hold  on  eternal  life,  and  will  be  enabled,  through  faith,  to  endure 
unto  the  end,  and  receive  the  crown  that  is  laid  up  for  them  that  love  the  appear- 
ing of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

I  would  like  to  read  all  of  this,  but  I  will  only  take  certain  parts  of 

it:      *    >.  .'•>      '  H  .  '       •  ,  '  -.     ' .  i  ...j 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"But  those  who  have  not  made  this  sacrifice  to  God  do  not  know  that  the 
course  which  they  pursue  is  well  pleasing  in  his  sight;  for  whatever  may  be 
their  belief  or  their  opinion  it  is  a  matter  of  doubt  and  uncertainty  in  their  mind; 
and  where  doubt  and  uncertainty  are,  there  faith  is  not,  nor  can  it  be.  For 
doubt  and  faith  do  not  exist  in  the  same  person  at  the  same  time ;  so  that  persons 
whose  minds  are  under  doubts  and  fears  cannot  have  unshaken  confidence ;  and 
where  unshaken  confidence  is  not,  there  faith  is  weak ;  and  where  faith  is  weak 
the  person  will  not  be  able  to  contend  against  all  opposition,  tribulations,  and 
afflictions  which  they  will  have  to  encounter  in  order  to  be  heirs  of  God,  and 
joint  heirs  with  Jesus  Christ;  and  they  will  grow  weary  in  their  minds,  and  the 
adversary  will  have  power  over  them  and  destroy  them." — Lectures  on  Faith, 
6:7-12.  ,         ,  , 

MEANING   OF  SACRIFICE 

I  believe  that  to  be  true,  and  let  me  add  that  in  these  passages 
,that  I  have  read,  the  term  "Sacrifice"  does  not  mean  that  we  are  to 
inflict  punishment  upon  ourselves.  It  does  not  mean  that  we  are  to 
be  persecuted,  or  to  deprive  ourselves  of  comforts  and  blessings ;  of 
mortal  life,  not  in  the  least,  but  that  we  are  willing  to  place  upon  the 
altar  all  things,  even  our  lives,  for  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  that  we 
will  accept  in  fulness  all  the  principles  of  the  gospel  and  put  them 
into  practice.  Sacrifice  of  the  world?  Yes,  if  you  want  to  call  it 
such,  and  the  things  of  the  world,  to  a  concentration  of  the  mind  and 
action  upon  the  things  of  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  therefore  again  I 
repeat  that  he  who  will  do  the  will  of  the  Father  shall  know  of  the 
doctrine.  All  doubt  will  be  removed  from  the  mind  of  the  faithful 
believer,  and  he  will  stand  in  perfect  light  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
He  will  be  able  to  declare  unto  all  the  world  :  "I  know,  for  God  through 
his  holy  Spirit  has  revealed  it  unto  me."  That  is  the  privilege  of  every 
member  of  this  Church,  and  where  a  man  doubts  the  truth  then  there 
is  evidence,  as  it  has  been  pointed  out,  that  he  has  not  accepted  in  his 
heart  the  fulness  of  the  gospel,  or  he  has  not  put  it  into  practice  to 
its  fulness,  and  therefore  has  not  reaped  the  benefits  and  blessings 
which  otherwise  would  be  his.  We  stand  firmly  for  the  truth  in  the 
face  of  the  conditions  now  prevailing  in  the  world,  and  teach  mankind,, 
and  call  upon  them  to  repent  of  their  sins,  and  believe  in  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  That  all  men  may  repent  and  accept  him  as  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world,  the  Only  Begotten  Son  of  God,  I  pray,  for  his  is  the  only 
name  given  under  heaven  by  which  we  may  be  saved.  This  is  my 
testimony,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

ELDER  REED  SMOOTHS  HEALTH  AND  LABORS 

I  rejoice  in  the  very  wonderful  attendance  we  have  had  today  in 
this  building,  and  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  and  regret  that  we  do  not 
have  accomodations  for  those  who  have  been  upon  the  ground.  I  have 
been  made  happy  in  the  testimonies  that  have  been  borne  thus  far 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


77 


during  this  conference.  I  am  particularly  grateful  that  Elder  Reed 
Smoot  has  had  the  privilege  of  being  with  us,  and  of  bearing  his 
testimony  to  us  here  today.  From  the  reports  that  we  received 
of  his  condition  of  health  I  little  expected  that  we  would  have  this 
privilege.  I  rejoice  in  the  very  remarkable  and  wonderful  mission 
that  he  has  been  performing  as  a  Senator  of  the  United  States.  He 
has  gained  the  confidence  and  the  respect  of  men  all  over  this  country. 
In  my  trips  from  the  Pacific  Coast  to  the  Atlantic  I  came  in  contact 
with  many  influential  men,  and  in  the  Southern  states  I  met  many  men 
whose  training  and  their  politics  were  in  direct  opposition  to  those  of 
Senator  Smoot.  All  these  influential  men  expressed  to  me  their  ad- 
miration for  his  devotion  to  his  work  as  a  Seinator.  I  believe  that  few 
men  have  ever  made  a  finer  record  for  themselves  in  the  Senate  of  the 
United  States  than  Elder  Smoot  has  done.  I  rejoice  in  his  accomplish- 
ments. I  have  met  influential  men  from  away  across  the  Atlantic 
who  have  said  to  me  that  they  had  a  poor  opinion  of  our  people  until 
they  saw  the  remarkable  and  spleen-did  work  and  upright,  honest  life 
of  one  of  the  apostles.  One  man  said  :  "If  you  were  not  a  good  people 
I  am  sure  that  Senator  Smoot  would  not  permit  himself  to  be  associated 
with  you  as  one  of  the  leaders  of  your  Church."  I  pray  that  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord  may  'be  and  abide  with  him,  that  he  may  be  restored 
to  perfect  health  and  strength,  and  have  the  opportunity  of  continuing 
his  labors  for  the  benefit  of  the  people  of  this  great  country  that  we, 
as  Latter-day  Saints,  love  so  well,  and  believe  that  the  Lord  Almighty 
was  at  the  helm  when  it  gained  its  freedom,  and  as  the  revelations  say, 
that  he  inspired  the  Constitution  of  our  beloved  country. 

The  choir  sang,  "O  great  is  the  depths",  from  Mendelssohn's 
oratorio,  "St.  Paul." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph  J.  Daynes,  presi- 
dent of  the  Grant  stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Monday,  10  a.  m„  April  6. 


FIRST  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

An  overflow  meeting  of  the  conference  was  held  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Sunday,  April  5,  1925. 

Elder  Rulon  S.  Wells,  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  presided. 

The  music  was  provided  by  the  Highland  Park  choir,  Elder  Gerrit 
Dejong  conductor ;  Edward  P.  Kimball  at  the  organ. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil 
nor  labor  fear." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Ernest  P.  Horsley. 

The  choir  sang  an  anthem,  "The  radiant  morn." 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BE.NNION 

President  of  the  Central  States  Mission 

I  am  very  pleased,  my  brethren  and  sisters  to  be  here  to  attend 
the  conference  of  the  Church.  The  great  number  of  people  that  I 
have  witnessed  this  morning  and  yesterday  on  the  grounds  and  in 
the  Tabernacle  are  an  inspiration  to  me.  I  feel  that  I  am  deeply  in- 
debted unto  the  Lord  for  the  many  manifestations  of  his  power  and  of 
his  goodness  unto  me  in  my  service  in  the  ministry. 

I  bring  you  greetings  from  the  Central  States  mission,  from  the 
missionaries  who  are  there,  your  sons  and  your  daughters,  and  from  the 
people  who  are  there.  I  can  testify  unto  you  that  there  is  faith,  much 
faith,  to  be  found  among  the  youth  of  Zion  in  the  Central  States,  and 
that  your  boys  and  your  girls  are  working  hard  for  the  establishment 
of  the  gospel  of  Christ  in  the  six  states  comprising  the  mission. 

The  Lord  said  that  we  should  judge  a  tree  by  its  fruits.  I  thought 
yesterday  when  the  President  of  the  Church  was  talking;  what  an 
inspiration  it  must  be  to  any  man,  to  any  woman,  regardless  of  their 
faith,  to  be  able  to  hear  or  to  read  the  great  truths  he  taught ;  and 
what  an  inspiration  it  was  to  those  who  were  there  to  witness  the 
power  with  which  he  spoke.  My  mind  was  led  to  the  fact  that  hun- 
dreds of  cities  in  this  great  country  of  ours  spend  vast  amounts  of 
money  to  gather  crowds  together  for  celebrations ;  they  are  called  upon 
to  make  donations  continually  in  order  to  bring  people  into  the  centers. 
But  here  is  a  great  congregation  of  people  gathered  together  in  this 
center  of  the  intermountain  region  without  one  cent  of  advertising 
money  having  been  spent.  They  come  here  of  their  own  free  will  and 
choice,  filled  with  a  desire  to  serve  the  Lord,  to  obtain  something  that 
they  can  use  to  establish  their  lives  in  the  future.  And  that  has 
marked  the  work  of  the  Church  from  the  beginning.  There  is  not 
any  man  who  can  read  the  history  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  without  being  led  to  conclude  that  surely  there  is 
an  overruling  power  that  cements  and  holds  its  members  and  keeps 
them  intact. 

I  am  led  to  think  of  one  of  the  details  of  the  work  of  the  Lord 
that  is  going  on  in  the  homes  of  faithful  Latter-day  Saints.  Every 
child,  as  soon  as  it  is  able  to  lisp  a  prayer  is  taught  by  the  mother 
to  pray  unto  the  Lord — to  pray  for  father,  for  mother,  for  brothers 
and  sisters,  and  relatives ;  for  the  President  of  the  Church  and  for 
the  apostles ;  the  presidents  of  the  seventies,  the  bishopric ;  the  author- 
ities of  the  Church  in  the  wards  and  in  the  stakes ;  and  for  the  mis- 
sionaries in  the  field.  This  is  a  part  of  the  life  of  our  boys  and  girls 
as  they  grow  from  childhood  to  manhood  and  womanhood,  the  father 
and  the  mother  setting  the  example.  This  thing  has  established  faith 
in  the  hearts  of  thousands  of  Latter-day  Saints  scattered  throughout 
these  intermountain  regions,  and  it  has  made  them  the  power  they 
are  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord.     People  everywhere  speak  of  the 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


79 


devotion  of  the  -members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  to  the  cause  that  they  represent  in  the  earth.  It  is  a  common 
conclusion  among  the  people  in  the  world  where  our  elders  go  that 
if  a  man  desires  to  attack  a  missionary  he'd  better  know  where  he 
stands  before  he  does  it,  for  they  know  that  the  missionaries  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  are  prepared  to  defend 
the  Church,  that  they  have  a  knowledge  of  the  scripture  that  the  Lord 
has  provided  for  them.  It  is  said  that  they  go  to  the  schools  and 
colleges  of  our  Church  in  order  to  prepare.  The  people  do  not  really 
know  the  fact — that  that  preparation  is  begun  in  the  great  majority  of 
cases  with  the  mother  and  father  at  home,  that  the  young  people  usually 
have  not  had  much  practice  in  public  speaking  or  conversing  upon  the 
principles  of  the  gospel — perhaps  have  not  taken  much  part  in  Church 
activities,  yet  faith  has  been  implanted  in  their  souls  from  the  beginning, 
and  only  needs  to  be  kindled  and  it  is  aflame  and  they  are  found  ably 
defending  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  They  go  forth 
testifying  unto  the  children  of  men  that  the  Lord  lives,  that  he  has 
revealed  himself  anew  in  this  dispensation,  that  he  did  speak  to  Joseph 
Smith,  the  prophet,  that  he  did  authorize  him  to  organize  the  Church 
in  these  last  days,  and  that  his  Church  has  been  establised  in  the 
earth  to  last  forever,  nevermore  to  be  thrown  down  nor  given  to  another 
people.  And  the  people  of  the  world  have  learned  to  conclude  that  the 
missionaries  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  well  as  those  at  home, 
are  earnest  in  their  endeavors  and  that  it  is  a  marvelous  work  and  a 
wonder  that  the  Lord  is  performing  with  his  pleople,  a  small  handful 
compared  to  the  countless  numbers  that  inhabit  the  earth. 

It  is  a  marvel  how  quickly  our  boys  and  girls  respond  to  the  call 
that  is  made  of  them  and  how  soon  they  are  able  to  defend  the  principles 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  the  ministry.  A  few  days  ago  I  had  the 
privilege  of  holding  a  conference  in  Independence,  Missouri,  the  place 
which  some  day  will  be  the  great  center  from  which  the  Church  will 
be  governed  and  controlled.  It  is  a  holy  place,  made  holy  by  those 
great  predictions,  blessings,  and  appointments  that  the  Lord  made  in 
the  beginning  of  this  dispensation.  One  of  the  missionaries  at  that 
conference  said  that  he  had  been  a  little  disturbed  as  to  how  he  was 
going'  to  meet  a  question  that  he  knew  would  be  put  to  him  during  a 
certain  appointment,  but  that  he  had  been  on  the  street  going  to  his 
work  only  a  few  moments  when  the  answer  came  to  him  and  he  was 
able  to  defend  the  Church  in  such  a  way  that  his  opponent  was  led  to 
listen  and  in  a  measure  accept  his  explanation  of  the  gospel. 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  It 
is  the  plan  by  which  the  children  of  men  come  unto  God,  and  there  is 
no  other.  It  is  the  most  perfect  way  of  living.  The  greatest  blessing 
and  joy  and  peace  that  can  come  to  men  and  to  women  is  to  know 
the  truth  and  to  obey  it,  and  to  be  filled  with  the  power  of  God  and 
see  his  power  made  manifest  in  the  hearts  of  those  who  bear  his  name 
and  who  are  worthy  and  faithful  enough  to  declare  it.    It  has  been 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


a  joy,  a  privilege,  the  greatest  thing  that  ever  came  into  my  life,  to  be 
associated  with  the  missionaries  of  this  Church  in  the  different  parts 
of  the  country.  There  is  no  place  on  the  earth  where  there  is  a  better 
feeling  than  among  the  men  and  women  who  consecrate  their  time  to 
the  preaching  of  the  gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ. 
They  are  sweet,  they  are  beautiful,  their  influence  is  heavenly,  and 
the  power  of  the  adversary  cannot  stand  in  the  presence  of  the  Priest- 
hood and  power  of  the  Redeemer,  that  he  has  given  unto  his  Church 
in  these  last  days. 

I  testify  unto  you  that  the  Lord  lives,  and  that  he  has  revealed 
this  gospel  in  these  last  days ;  that  his  Priesthood,  his  power,  his 
authority  to  preach  the  gospel  and  administer  in  the  ordinances  of  it 
are  vested  in  this  Church  and  are  not  vested  in  any  other  church.  I 
have  failed  to  find  any  one  in  all  my  years  of  experience  in  the  mission 
field  who  has  been  able  to  disprove  any  principle  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  that  the  Lord  gave  to  Joseph  the  prophet.  Every  attempt 
to  prove  them  wrong  has  merely  verified  their  truthfulness  'and  has 
made  the  truth  of  God  stronger  in  the  earth. 

It  is  glorious  to  be  here;  it  is  wonderful  to  live;  to  be  engaged 
in  the  work  of  the  conservation  of  the  souls  of  men  in  these  the  last 
days  is  a  privilege  that  surpasseth  all  other  experience  or  understanding. 
Qod  has  been  good  to  me  and  to  those  with  whom  I  have  had  the 
pleasure  of  associating  in  the  ministry.  They  have  been  noble,  wonder- 
ful, great  characters,  and  they  are  in  the  Church  today,  the  majority 
of  them  standing  in  the  testimony  of  Jesus  and  for  the  power  of  God 
in  the  earth,  the  result  of  their  birth  in  these  the  last  days  and  of 
the  faith  that  their  fathers  and  the  mothers  have  planted  within  them. 

May  God  strengthen  us,  give  us  power  more  nearly  to  keep  his  com- 
mandments, I  ask  in  the  name  of  Christ  our  Lord.  Amen. 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

On  the  dav  of  Pentecost  the  people  were  assembled  at  one  place 
with  one  accord  and  witnessed  some  marvelous  manifestations  of  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  They  heard,  as  it  were,  from  heaven  a 
rushing,  mighty  wind — a  little  different  sort  of  a  rushing,  mighty 
wind  from  that  which  the  people  of  Illinois  and  Indiana  heard  last 
month.  After  they  had  witnessed  the  outpourings  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
at  Pentecost,  and  Peter,  the  chief  apostle,  had  given  instructions  in 
the  prophecies  of  Joel  and  David,  the  multitude  were  pricked  in  their 
hearts  and  exclaimed,  "Men  and  brethren,  what  shall  we  do?" — 
meaning,  as  the  Apostle  Peter  evidently  understood  it,  What  shall  we 
do  to  be  saved?  They  could  have  answered  that  question  better  if 
they  had  been  able  to  answer  another  question  which  the  Master  asked 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


81 


of  the  Pharisees,  when  they  were  together  in  the  multitude.  He  asked 
the  question  saying,  "What  think  ye  of  Christ?  Whose  son  is  he?"— 
a  question,  by  the  way,  that  was  answered  very  clearly  and  em- 
phatically yesterday  by  President  Grant,  by  Brother  B.  H.  Roberts,  and 
others  of  the  speakers.  The  M.  I.  A.  this  year  will  have  as  their 
slogan,  "We  stand  for  an  individual  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  Jesus 
Christ."  The  M.  I.  A.  can  find  in  the  conference  proceedings  of 
yesterday  much  rich  material  in  support  of  the  proposition  which  they 
desire  to  establish  in  the  minds  of  the  one  hundred  thousand  members 
of  the  M.  I.  A.  during  the  coming  year. 

A  similar  question  to  that  asked  by  the  Master  might  be  pro- 
pounded in  this  day,  "What  think  ye  of  Joseph  Smith  ?  Whose  prophet 
was  he?"  and  that  question  was  well  answered  yesterday,  and  further 
testimony  will  be  given  today.  , 

But  to  return  to  the  question  at  Pentecost,  asked  by  the  multi- 
tude under  the  influence  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  "Men  and  brethren,  what 
shall  we  do?"  It  may  not  be  necessary  to  give  to  an  audience  such  as 
this  the  formula  for  spiritual  salvation.  Peter  gave  some  of  the  es- 
sentials at  that  time  when  he  said,  "Repent  ye,  and  be  baptized,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost."  And.  to  indicate  that  it  was  not  a  temporary 
promise  or  requirement,  he  added,  "For  the  promise  is  unto  you  and 
to  your  children  and  to  all  that  are  afar  off,  even  as  many  as  the 
Lord,  our  God,  shall  call."  I  say  you  are  well  acquainted  with  the 
formula,  if  I  may  use  that  expression,  for  spiritual  salvation;  but  may 
we  not  anxiously  inquire  day  by  day  as  we  return  to  our  homes  and  are 
confronted  by  the  practical  problems  of  every-day  life,  may  we  not  also 
in  anxiety  exclaim  and  do  it  prayerfully,  Men  and  brethren,  what 
shall  we  do?  Women  and  sisters,  what  shall  we  do?  What  shall 
we  do  to  be  saved — saved  financially,  preserved  in  health,  and  to 
correctly  solve  all  the  other  problems  that  are  so  vital  to  us  ? 

And  do  you  not  think  this  is  a  part  of  salvation?  The  Lord,  in 
a  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  indicated  that  salvation  was 
not  confined  to  things  that  we  generally  understand  to  be  purely 
spiritual.  He  gave  a  very  broad  meaning  to  the  term  spiritual.  Listen 
to  the  34th  and  35th  verses  of  the  29th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants : 

"Wherefore,  verily  I  say  unto  you  that  all  things  unto  me  are  spiritual,  and 
not  at  any  time  have  I  given  unto  you  a  law  which  was  temporal ;  neither  any  man, 
nor  the  children  of  men;  neither  Adam,  your  father,  whom  I  created. 

"Behold,  I  gave  unto  him  that  he  should  be  an  agent  unto  himself;  and  I 
gave  unto  him  commandment,  but  no  temporal  commandment  gave  I  unto  him, 
for  my  commandments  are  spiritual;  they  are  not  natural,  nor  temporal,  neither 
carnal  nor  sensual." 

And  some  of  the  philosophers  have  reached  that  conclusion;  the 
late  Elbert  Hubbard  put  his  conviction  to  the  same  effect  in  the  form 
of  a  question  when  he  said,  "If  we  continue  to  progress,  must  there 
not  come  a  time  when  we  shall  cease  to  differentiate  and  call  some 


82 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


things  sacred  and  some  things  secular?"  And,  of  course,  his  question, 
put  in  that  form,  really  answers  itself  in  the  affirmative,  and  it  is 
but  in  confirmation  of  the  information  received  of  the  Lord  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  And  so  when  we  return  to  our  homes,  exalted, 
refreshed,  rested,  ready  to  take  up  the  battle  of  life  again, — we  shall 
encounter  practical  problems.  The  duty  upon  the  head  of  the  house- 
hold will  be  to  safeguard  the  health  of  members  of  his  family.  Various 
members  of  the  family  may  be  in  need  of  his  help — young  men  going 
to  school,  the  younger  ones  passing  through  the  danger  period  of  life, 
and  the  still  younger  ones  whose  footsteps  need  to  be  protected.  And 
he  may  well  exclaim,  not  only  for  his  children  but  for  himself  and  wife, 
"Men  and  brethren,  what  shall  we  do?" 

I  saw  a  poor  old  man,  who  appeared,  at  least,  to  be  very  old  and 
decrepit,  crippled  with  rheumatism,  agonized,  but  only  63  years  of 
age.  What  was  the  trouble?  In  a  short  time  he  opened  his  mouth, 
and  I  discovered  that  he  had  a  mouth  full  of  pyorrhea-covered  pus- 
bearing  teeth,  draining  their  poisonous  cocci  into  his  system  every  day 
that  he  lived ;  various  kinds  of  germs  breeding  there  and  being  poured 
into  his  body; — and  so  he  was  all  crippled  up.  I  said,  "Why  don't 
you  have  your  teeth  taken  care  of,  and  get  rid  of  the  rheumatism?" 
His  tonsils  also  were  diseased,  adding  to  the  supply  of  germs  his  body 
had  to  deal  with.  He  said,  "I  cannot  afford  it."  If  that  were  true,  it 
was  time  for  some  community  assistance,  a  community  dentist  or 
doctor,  or  for  some  one  to  be  called  upon  a  mission,  if  necessary,  in 
order  to  take  care  of  his  case.  He  was  helping  to  raise  the  death- 
rate  reported  yesterday  which  we  may  well  be  proud  of,  7.3  per 
thousand.  We  hope  that  every  God-fearing  Latter-day  Saint  may  be 
proud  of  those  figures ;  but  in  that  connection,  we  must  always  keep 
in  mind  the  credit  due  to  the  entire  body  and  due  to  us  as  individuals. 
Let  us  not  go  to  our  homes  all  puffed  up  with  the  thought  that  we  are 
wonderful  and  great  individually,  simply  because  the  people  that  we  are 
a  part  of  are  entitled  to  great  praise  because  of  a  birth  rate  of  33,  a 
death  rate  of  7.3,  and  a  divorce  rate  of  15.  Let  us  keep  in  mind  always 
the  distinction  which  the  Lord  gave  through  the  prophet  Joseph  when 
he  declared  that  he  was  well  pleased  with  the  people  speaking  of  them 
collectively  and  not  individually.  Because  good  things  may  be  said 
of  this  people  collectively,  let  us  not  take  them  unto  ourselves  as  a 
sweet  unction  to  our  souls,  if  we,  as  individuals,  are  entitled  to  none 
of  the  credit  for  these  desirable  qualities  in  the  Church,  because  we 
are  working  against  them. 

Again  there  are  financial  problems.  The  father  and  mother  will 
sit  down  and  try  to  plan  whereby  they  can  meet  their  just  obligations, 
taking  care  of  their  children,  paying  their  just  debts,  and  being  care- 
ful not  to  contract  obligations  they  cannot  pay.  I  do  not  have  much 
patience  with  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  unnecessarily  go  into  volun- 
tary bankruptcy  simply  because  the  government  of  the  United  States 
has  provided  the  means  whereby  a  man,  under  certain  circumstances, 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


83 


may  protect  himself.  Let  us  not  unnecessarily  take  advantage  of  that 
to  wipe  out  our  debts.  What  would  you  think  of  President  Grant 
if,  during  the  time  of  financial  adversity  to  him  many  years  ago,  he  had 
taken  the  bankruptcy  act  and  wiped  out  his  indebtedness  ?  What  would 
the  people  think  of  Abraham  Lincoln  if  he  had  not  insisted  on  paying 
every  dollar  of  his  indebtedness?  We  are  called  an  honest  people,  a 
great  people,  and  each  one,  who  shares  in  the  glory  which  comes  to  the 
Church  he  belongs  to,  should  be  very  careful  to  contribute  his  share  and 
not  to  do  anything  to  bring  down  that  general  average.  In  addition  to 
these  health  problems  and  financial  problems  there  will  be  wisdom  to 
be  used  not  to  unwisely  educate,  not  to  send  the  boy  or  girl  to  school 
at  the  time  when  the  father  and  mother  are  suffering  for  the  want  of 
a  little  medical  attention,  for  an  education  that  he  is  not  prepared  to 
stand,  nor  to  send  him  abroad  to  be  educated  under  an  infidel,  an 
agnostic  or  unbeliever,  only  to  have  him  lose  the  faith,  when  the  father 
and  mother  have  been  at  home  drudging,  perhaps,  working  their 
finger-nails  off  almost,  to  keep  those  same  dear  children  under  that 
instruction  which  will  be  pernicious  for  them.  The  problem  will  be  to 
give  our  children  education  as  fast  as  they  are  able  to  stand  it,  but 
not  faster  than  their  moral  training  will  allow. 

And  so,  in  these  and  hundreds  of  other  problems  which  will  con- 
cern the  parents  in  their  buying  and  selling,  in  their  sowing  and  in 
their  reaping,  in  their  safeguarding  of  their  family,  in  educating  of 
them,  and  in  training  them  to  serve  others, — the  greatest  service  that 
they  can  engage  in — they  may  well  exclaim  every  day,  "Men  and 
brethren,  what  shall  we  do  to  be  saved — this  day  and  this  week  and  this 
year?" 

And  may  the  Lord  help  us  to  solve  all  problems  aright  in  each 
one  of  our  households,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  solo,  the  Ninety-first  psalm,  "He  that  dwelleth  in  the  secret 
place  of  the  most  High  shall  abide  under  the  shadow  of  the  Almighty," 
was  sung  by  Mrs.  Irene  Southwell  Cummings. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 

President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

This  is  one  of  the  privileges  that  I  thoroughly  appreciate — being 
called  upon  to  say  a  few  words  iduring  this  great  conference  of  the 
Church.  I  am  thankful  beyond  my  power  to  express  for  the  blessing 
that  has  come  to  me  in  bemg  called  into  the  ministry — to  be  upon  the 
firing  line  of  truth,  explaining  to  the  best  of  my  ability  the  plan  of  life 
and  salvation  as  taught  and  practiced  by  Jesus  Christ,  the  Lord.  I  am 
coming  to  feel  more  and  more  the  great  power  of  this  Church,  per- 
haps it  is  because  my  entire  life,  together  with  the  lives  of  my  com- 
panions, is  devoted  to  the  very  highest  and  deepest  things  in  life,  and 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


these  things  were  only  found  where  truth,  spoken  or  lived,  is  the 
dominating-  power  in  God's  revealed  plan  of  life.  The  last  two  years 
of  my  life  have  been  the  finest  years,  I  believe,  that  I  have  ever  spent. 
I  think  I  appreciate  more  fully  the  richness  of  the  gospel,  what  it 
means,  and  the  relationship  it  bears  to  human  life.  It  has  been  my 
privilege  to  witness  many  manifestations  of  God's  great  power  through 
his  servants  as  they  have  proclaimed  and  administered  the  ordinances 
of  the  the  gospel  to  those  in  a  foreign  land.  These  young  men  and 
women  are  measuring  up  to  the  responsibilities  resting  upon  them; 
they  are  choice  in  spirit  and  are  enjoying-  the  richness  of  God's  holy 
Spirit,  and  I  want  to  say  to  you,  especially  those  of  you  who  have  sons 
and  daughters  in  the  mission  field,  that  you  can  feel  justly  proud  of 
them  because  of  the  disposition  and  attitude  they  assume  in  responding 
to  the  responsibilities  that  are  resting  upon  them  as  messengers  of  life 
and  salvation  to  the  country  of  the  north.  I  said  that  I  was  grateful 
for  the  privilege  of  being  a  minister  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
anid  those  who  labor  with  me  feel  just  the  same  way,  and  there  is 
nothing  that  we  would  riot  be  willing  to  sacrifice  in  order  to  establish 
this  Church  or  gospel  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men.  It  is  God's 
saving  truth.  [ 

The  world  today,  or  that  part  of  the  world  in  which  I  have  been 
called  to  labor,  comprises  some  of  the  finest  people  that  it  has  been  my 
privilege  to  come  in  contact  with.  The  laws  of  the  country  are  ob- 
served ;  they  are  good  laws,  and  generally  speaking,  people  have  respect 
for  them  and  those  who  disobey  the  law  are  conscious  always  of  the 
result.  The  people  in  the  vicinity  of  our  headquarters  are  especially 
good  people.  They  are,  as  a  rule,  honest  in  their  dealings,  sincere  in 
their  convictions,  as  far  as  they  are  able  to  understand  the  great  gospel 
plan  as  it  was  given  by  Jesus  Christ  when  he  was  upon  the  earth. 
Many  of  them  seem  to  be  self-satisfied  with  what  they  have  along 
these  lines.  Notwithstanding  this  fact,  however,  we  are  coming  in 
contact  daily  with  people  who  are  not  at  all  in  sympathy  with  the  gospel 
as  it  lhas  been  restored  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  The  reason  for  this,  or  one  of  the  reasons,  is  because 
of  prejudice  and  their  not  understanding  our  message.  Many  are 
pregnant  with  the  thought  that  Jesus  Christ  was  just  a  man — not  an 
ordinary  man,  however,  but  one  of  those  great  men  that  came  into  the 
world  and  through  his  teachings  and  life  left  a  great  code  of  moral 
teachings.  They  do  not  look  upon  him  as  the  Redeemer  of  the  world 
and  do  not  credit  his  literal  resurrection.  This  thought  is  growing 
among  a  certain  class  of  people  throughout  the  world,  and  they  are 
placing  man's  wisdom  above  that  which  is  supposed  to  be  inspired  by 
God  through  his  servants,  the  prophets.  They  seem  to  segregate  them- 
selves from  that  simple,  vital  faith  that  is  so  prevalent  among  good 
Latter-day  Saints,  or  at  least  I  hope  is  prevalent,  because  I  have  come 
to  feel  that  this  simple,  yet  powerful,  faith  is  the  only  thing  that  will 


ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 


85 


bring  real  joy  and  happiness  into  our  hearts.  Indeed,  I  think  the 
greatest  thing  that  can  take  possession  of  the  mind  and  soul  is  the 
thought  of  God,  for  when  we  think  of  God  we  think  of  the  most  holy 
and  divine  personal  Being  of  which  we  can  conceive,  and  having  faith 
in  that  kind  of  a  Being,  it  seems  to  me  causes  us  to  understand  more 
perfectly  the  relationship  that  obtains  between  us  and  him.  You  can 
rest  assured  that  this  vital,  genuine  faith  is  one  of  the  great  things  that 
our  missionaries  begin  to  learn  as  they  prosecute  this  great  and  mighty 
work  in  the  world. 

We  heard  yesterday  that  signs  were  to  follow  those  who  believed. 
I  am  here  to  testify  to  you  today  that  through  this  simple  and  abiding 
faith  that  comes  through  humility  and  prayer  the  gifts  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Chris  are  apparent.  They  are  distributed  among  our  young 
men  and  women  who  are  called  from  day  to  day  to  officiate  in  the 
ordinances  of  the  restored  gospel ;  and  they  witness  through  their  faith, 
the  healing  of  the  sick,  making  the  blind  to  see,  and  many  other  mani- 
festations that  bring  a  perfect  response  to  the  idea  that  God  lives, 
and  that  through  the  operation  of  his  Spirit,  those  who  are  believing 
and  receiving  these  blessings  are  coming  into  the  Church. 

I  rejoice  in  this,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  reason  that  it 
is  building  my  faith,  adding  additional  testimony  to  that  which  I  already 
have,  and  as  I  see  this  testimony  growing  and  developing  I  praise  God, 
my  eternal  Father.  I  am  convinced  that  God  lives,  that  he  hears  and 
answers  prayers,  and  that  our  young  men  and  women,  through  their 
diligence,  are  conveying,  with  conviction  unmistakable,  the  gospel 
message  to  the  hearts  of  those  with  whom  they  are  privileged  to  come 
in  contact.  You  will  remember  reading  the  words  of  Jesus  Christ  just 
prior  to  his  crucifixion.  He  had  been  giving  his  disciples  instructions, 
and  telling  them  what  would  befall  them  for  preaching  his  name  and 
bearing  witness  of  him  as  Christ,  after  which  he  withdrew  himself 
and  engaged  in  secret  prayer,  imploring  his  Father  in  heaven  to  keep 
firm  the  testimony  that  his  disciples  had  obtained.  "This  is  life  eternal, 
that  they  might  know  thee,  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ  whom 
thoujiast  sent."  This  eternal  life  is  predicated  upon  the  knowledge  we 
must  obtain  from  God  and  his  beloved  Son,  and  in  order  to  know  God, 
we  must  have  that  simple,  vital  faith  in  him,  and  this  faith  comes  to 
every  individual  through  prayer,  humility,  and  determination  to  un- 
derstand the  mighty  message  of  the  gospel.  I  am  convinced  that  one 
of  the  best  things  (for  us  as  parents  to  do  is  to  teach  our  children  the 
necessity  of  prayer,  so  that  they  can  cultivate  a  faith  that  is  inborn  with- 
in them,  and  with  this  faith  know  Jesus  Christ,  and  God,  the  eternal 
Father.  I  do  not  know  of  anything  better  than  for  a  father  and  mother 
to  call  their  family  to  their  knees  morning  and  night  and  thank  God 
for  the  preservation  of  life,  for  the  opportunity  that  has  come  to 
them  in  this  day  and  time  in  learning  more  of  the  great  gospel  plan ; 
and  the  more  we  know  of  this  gospel  plan  the  more  we  understand 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


life  itself.  And  understanding  life,  we  become  acquainted  with  God, 
our  eternal  Father,  and  his  great  creation.  Aside  from  family  prayer, 
I  think  we  should  advocate  more  strongly  the  necessity  of  commun- 
icating with  God  when  we  are  alone,  and  convey  to  him  with  a  perfect 
confidence  the  things  that  are  in  our  hearts,  making  him  feel  and  know 
our  gratitude  for  the  blessings  of  life  and  the  opportunities  that  have 
come  to  us  in  knowing  more  about  these  precious  truths.  It  is  during 
moments  of  this  kind,  the  solemn  hours  of  life,  if  you  please,  where 
we  are  permitted  to  gather  up  all  life  and  place  it  in  the  unit  of  spiritual 
power,  and  with  that  power  grow  strong  in  faith  and  have  constantly 
the  light  of  God's  Spirit  with  us.  And  so,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
let  us  pray  alone  to  God,  take  him  into  our  confidence,  ask  him  for 
his  protecting  care,  to  give  us  light  and  power,  to  enaole  us  to  under- 
stand more  perfectly  the  great  truths  that  have  been  revealed  for  the 
perpetuation  of  his  glorious  work. 

I  desire  to  bear  to  you  my  humble  testimony  that  I  know  that 
God  lives.  Indeed,  I  know  as  I  know  that  I  breathe  the  breath  of  life, 
that  he  does  answer  prayers,  and  the  blessings  in  signs  are  following 
those  who  have  faith  in  him.  The  prayer  of  faith  is  healing  the  sick, 
and  they  stand  as  great  manifestations  and  as  witnesses  to  the  divinity 
of  this  great  work.  I  have  been  near  death's  door  more  than  once, 
anjd  I  sometimes  marvel  how  it  is  that  he  has  preserved  my  life.  I  am 
thankful  beyond  measure  for  the  privilege  that  has  come  to  me  to 
bear  this  testimony  in  the  presence  of  this  great  throng  of  people,  and 
with  the  help  of  my  heavenly  Father  I  desire,  with  all  the  power  I  have, 
to  continue  to  bear  witness  of  God's  mercy  to  me  and  the  great  testimony 
I  have  of  the  divinity  of  this  great  and  mighty  work.  The  gospel  of 
our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  as  it  has  been  restored  in  this  day  and  time. 
God  bless  every  one  of  us,  that  we  may  appreciate  to  the  fullest,  what 
we  have  in  this  glorious  gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Master,  that  we  might 
be  found  worthy  of  all  his  blessings.   I  a:sk  this  in  his  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

It  is  a  pleasure  and  a  privilege  to  attend  the  conference  gatherings 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  at  every  gathering  of  this  character  we 
receive  inspiration  and  encouragement.  We  get  a  deeper  sympathy 
with  the  world  and  all  its  problems.  It  is  a  great  privilege  to  be  a 
Latter-day  Saint.  One  of  the  old  prophets  said  that  in  the  latter  days 
there  would  be  a  igreat  distinction.  Men  and  women  would  say  they 
were  "born  in  Zion,"  and  happy  are  those  to  whom  this  blessing  has 
come. 

Yesterday,  when  I  heard  the  statement  made  by  President  Grant, 
showing  the  progress  of  this  Church,  the  receipts  and  disbursements  of 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


87 


its  funds,  converts  to  the  gospel  at  home  and  abroad,  the  number  of  chil- 
dren 'baptized  into  the  Church,  etc.,  I  thought  to  myself  "What  hath 
God  wrought!"  Then  my  thoughts  went  back  to  the  first  prayer  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  when  he  went  into  a  wooded  enclosure  to  in- 
quire of  the' Lord  as  to  which  Church  he  should  join,  his  family  having 
already  become  affiliated  with  some  of  the  sects  whose  members  were 
proselyting  in  that  neighborhood.  I  have  walked  up  the  little  roadway 
leading  from  the  farm-house,  and  have  tried  to  visualize  and  picture 
the  feelings  of  that  boy  as  he  went  into  that  small  enclosure  to  pray. 
And  from  that  momentous  event  I  again  said  to  myself :  "What  hath 
God  wrought !" 

The  time  had  come  when  our  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ 
should  again  manifest  themselves  unto  mankind,  and  the  boy  prophet 
became  a  new  witness  for  God  and  was  able  to  testify  that  God  lives, 
that  he  saw  him,  that  he  heard  his  voice  and  that  he  was  directed  by 
his  Son  as  to  what  his  future  conduct  should  be. 

When  we  think  of  the  tremendous  work  the  boy  prophet  did  in 
the  few  short  years  of  his  life,  we  must  conclude  that  it  was  no  easy 
task.  He  reestablished  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  By  the  power  and 
gift  of  God  he  translated  and  brought  forth  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
Under  the  direction  of  the  Lord  a  gathering  place  was  established 
around  Kirtland,  and  a  few  devoted  men  and  women  erected  their 
house  to  the  Lord — a  house  which  is  still  holy  to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  wonder  if  many  of  us  have  tried  to  visualize  what  it  meant  to 
those  few  people  in  the  way  of  sacrifice  to  erect  that  house'  and  how 
the  Lord  blessed  them  for  their  efforts.  However,  there  was  no  rest  in 
Kirtland.  Persecution  became  so  severe  that  the  prophet  and  the  lead- 
ing brethren  moved  to  the  land  of  Zion,  the  Lord  having  revealed 
that  this  should  be  the  gathering  place  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  There 
they  met  the  inevitable  conflict  between  the  North  and  the  South  and 
suffered  the  consequence,  being  compelled  to  move  from  Missouri  to 
Nauvoo,  where  they  settled  and  developed  a  community,  building  a 
magnificent  temple.  Here  the  prophet  received  more  doctrine  and 
principles  of  government  from  the  Lord,  and  the  city  of  Nauvoo  grew 
so  rapidly  that,  it  bade  fair  to  rival  Chicago. 

But  the  great  conflict  between  the  force  of  evil  and  the  work  of 
the  Lord  again  developed.  The  Latter-day  Saints  were  burdened, 
murdered  and  compelled  to  leave  their  wonderful  city  and  its  marvelous 
temple,  and  journey  yet  further  westward  across  the  wastes  of  Iowa, 
Nebraska  and  Wyoming. 

I  have  often  thought  of  what  a  weeding-out  process  this  great 
movement  proved  to  be,  for  if  there  were  any  weak-kneed  people,  if 
there  were  any  whose  hearts  were  not  filled  with  a  testimony,  they 
could  not  help  but  be  thinned  from  the  ranks  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
Many  followed  former  leaders  of  the  Church  and  strayed  away  into 
various  groups.  These  have  gone  into  oblivion ;  however,  many  held 
on-  to  the  gospel  with  what!  we  might  call  a  "bull-dog  grip,"  coming 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  these  valleys  under  the  masterful  leadership  of  the  Prophet  Brigham 
Young.  Here  they  occupied  these  valleys  of  the  mountains  and  estab- 
lished a  new  and  higher  civilization,  based  upon  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  The  world  has  seen  many  civilizations  rise  and  fall,  most  of 
which  have  been  founded  upon  the  lust  for  power,  wealth  and  dominion 
over  others.  We  have  noticed  this  in  the  old  civilization  of  Europe. 
Such  was  the  condition  in  other  parts  of  the  world,  whereas  the  Con- 
stitution of  our  great  country  was  established  by  men  who  were  in- 
spired of  the  Lord,  and  this  land  of  America  was  redeemed  by  the 
shedding  of  blood ;  and  upon  this  continent,  this  land  of  Zion,  there  is 
being  established  a  better  and  a  higher  type  of  civilization,  based  upon 
human  liberty  and  freedom. 

In  these  valleys  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  building  a  higher  type 
of  civilization,  under  the  guidance  and  direction  of  the  prophets  of 
old,  and  in  obedience  to  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
The  civilization  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  based  upon  the  statement 
made  by  our  Lord  and  Master  to  the  man  who  inquired  what  he  should 
do  to  inherit  eternal  life.  Our  Master  said :  "Thou  shalt  love  the 
Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all 
thy  strength,  and  with  all  thy  mind ;  and  thy  neighbor  as  thyself." 
Among  the  Latter-day  Saints  there  is  a  spirit  of  mutual  helpfulness, 
sympathy,  brotherly  love  and  kindness,  a  desire  to  cooperate  in  all  tem- 
poral movements.  There  is  also  the  spirit  of  homemaking  and  the  love 
of  home  and  its  surroundings ;  and  the  people  have  a  desire  to  own 
the  home  in  which  they  live  or  the  land  from  which  they  derive  their 
living. 

I  don't  believe  in  the  idea  that  we  should  be  completely  and  en- 
tirely satisfied  with  the  progress  we  are  making.  Neither  do  I  believe  in 
being  dissatisfied.  All  ambitious  persons  and  those  who  are  trying 
for  higher  ideals  should  be  unsatisfied  with  their  present  condition, 
for  this  alone  can  bring  about  efforts  to  reach  greater  heights. 

In  the  7th  chapter  of  the  gospel  of  Matthew,  there  is  recorded 
some  wonderful  statements  made  by  Jesus  Christ.  He  warned  his 
disciples  'to 

"Beware  of  false  prophets,  which  come  to  you  in  sheep's  "clothing,  but  in- 
wardly they  are  ravening  wolves. 

"Ye  shall  know  them  by  their  fruits.  Do  men  gather  grapes  of  thorns,  or 
figs  of  thistles? 

"Even  so  every  good  tree  bringeth  forth  good  fruit;  but  a  corrupt  tree 
bringeth  forth  evil  fruit. 

"A  good  tree  cannot  bring  forth  evil  fruit,  neither  can  a  corrupt  tree  bring 
forth  good  fruit. 

"Every  tree  that  bringeth  not  forth  good  fruit  is  hewn  down,  and  cast  into 
the  fire. 

"Wherefore  by  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them." 

We  Latter-day  Saints  are  willing  to  accept  this  standard.  With 
all  the  weaknesses  and  frailties  of  human  nature,  both  inherited  and  ac- 
quired, we  are  willing  to  be  judged  by  this  standard. 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


89 


A  few  years  ago  an  eminent  man  from  the  East  called  at  the 
Presiding  Bishop's  office.  He  was  interested  in  the  great  charity  move- 
ment that  has  been  developed  in  the  United  States.  He  said  to  me :  "I 
hear  you  have  a  very  low  death  rate."  I  answered  that  this  was  so. 
He  asked  if  he  might  see  the  details  of  the  death  report  for  the  last  ten 
years  and  it  was  handed  to  him.  He  then  asked  permission  to  examine 
it  alone,  and  upon  being  told  that  he  might  do  so,  he  studied  the  large 
sheets  giving  numerous  details  of  the  causes  of  deaths.  After  a  time 
he  said :  "I  am  through.  I  am  astounded  at  the  lack  of  causes  of 
deaths  from  sex  diseases.  I  notice  very  few,  if  any,  deaths  from 
alcoholism;"  and  he  then  commented  on  a  number  of  other  causes 
of  death,  and  finally  said :  "Deaths  are  the  results  of  the  general  habits 
and  conduct   of  life."    He  drew  his  conclusions  from  figures. 

While  there  is  room  for  improvement  among  our  people,  we  have 
reason  to  be  proud  of  the  results  that  are  being  brought  about  through 
obedience  to  the  gospel.  The  birth  rate  among  the  Latter-day  Saints 
is  7.3  to  the  thousand.  Then,  the  child  born  to  the  average  Latter-day 
Saint  home  is  welcome.  This  is  indicated  by  the  fact  that  out  of  each 
thousand  children  in  the  United  States,  76  die  before  they  have  reached 
one  year  of  age.  Among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  out  of  each  thousand 
children  born,  only  41  die  before  they  become  one  year  of  age. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  go  home  not  satisfied,  but  deter- 
mined to  do  better  than  we  have  in  the  past  to  make  our  home  life  sweet, 
to  gather  our  farrtiles  around  us  and  keep  them  fond  of  home.  Let 
us  develop  a  love  of  our  fellow  men,  sympathy  with  their  misfortunes. 
Let  us  teach  our  children  to  observe  the  law  of  tithing,  to'  observe 
the  Lord's  day  and  keep  it  holy  and  reserve  that  day  for  worship  and 
rest,  as  the  Lord  desires.  These  are  fundamental  duties  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

May  his  blessings  be  with  us  in  every  honest  endeavor  to  maintain 
the  high  standard  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem:  "Ye  shall  dwell  in  the  land." 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

I  am  very  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  the  oppor- 
tunity of  being  with  you  in  the  conference  meetings. 

I  am  sure  that  we  all  recognize  the  fact  that  the  teachings  of  the 
prophet  Joseph  Smith  have  modified  the  religious  views  of  the  world. 
It  is  interesting  to  meet  people  and  see  how  they  have  changed  their 
views  in  regard  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Sometimes  our  mis- 
sionaries, as  they  go  from  door  to  door  and  find  so  little  encourage- 
ment go  back  to  their  rooms  with  a  thought  that  perhaps  they  are 


90 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


not  accomplishing  just  as  much  as  they  could  accomplish.  I 
tell  the  missionaries  that  every  time  they  are  able  to  teach  one  truth 
to  some  one  who  has  not  understood  that  truth  before,  they  have 
helped  to  advance  the  religious  thought  of  the  day,  and  that  from 
this  little  seed  of  truth  that  the  people  have  received  they  are  able  to 
understand  another  truth.  By  this  means  will  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  fill  the  whole  earth,  and  men  shall  worship  God  and  honor  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  because  of  the  teachings  that  have  been  given 
to  Joseph  Smith  from  our  Father.  There  is  one  thought,  however,  that 
people  do  not  seem  to  be  able  to  grasp,  and  that  ,is  that  there  is  a 
straight  and  narrow  way  to  get  back  into  the  kingdom  of  God.  They 
seem  to  have  the  idea  that  by  some  inexplicable  method  they  will  be 
brought  back  into  his  presence,  and  that  irrespective  of  the  things  that 
they  have  done  upon  the  earth,  he  will  forgive  them  and  finally  place 
them  in  the  celestial  kingdom.  I  hope  that  we,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  are 
not  trying  to  deceive  ourselves  in  regard  to  this  thing.  Men  and  women 
will  only  get  the  reward  that  they  earn  upon  the  earth,  and  with 
all  the  mercy  that  God  will  extend  to  them  there  still  remains  the 
attribute  of  justice,  and  men  and  women  will  pay  the  price  of  things 
that  they  do  upon  the  earth  if  they  are  to  receive  the  reward  that 
God  would  have  them  receive  in  his  kingdom. 

We  have  in  the  world  a  number  of  splendid  Latter-day  Saints 
who  are  laboring  in  the  cause  of  Jesus  Christ,  men  and  women  who 
are  trying  to  see  and  understand  the  value  of  it  and  to  have  it  take 
root  in  their  hearts  and  give  forth  fruits  that  will  count  in  the  kingdom 
of  God.  Just  a  short  time  ago  I  received  at  the  office  a  small  box. 
I  wondered  what  was  in  the  box,  and  in  opening  it  I  was  very 
much  surprised  to  find  that  it  contained  a  few  dozen  eggs,  and  inside 
of  the  box  was  a  letter  from  an  old  man  and  woman  something  like 
eighty  years  of  age  living  on  a  rented  farm,  hardly  getting  enough 
to  hold  things  together  and  perhaps  at  times  going  without  the  food 
that  they  might  desire.  The  letter  in  the  box  said,  "President  Taylor, 
we  have  no  money:  we  can  hardly  get  along,  but  we  do  have  a  few 
things  on  the  farm,  and  we  are  sending  in  these  few  dozen  of  eggs 
that  we  may  pay  our  fast  offering  to  the  Lord's  poor."  I  like  men 
and  women  who  have  faith  to  do  something  and  to  make  the  sacrifice 
necessary  to  be  made  to  gain  salvation. 

A  while  ago  I  received  through  the  office  a  letter  containing 
just  one  or  two  dollars,  and  in  the  envelope  was  a  little  statement 
from  a  widow  down  in  one  of  our  towns,  with  a  family  to  support, 
and  she  said,  "Brother  Taylor,  this  is  my  tithing — not  all  that  I 
would  like  to  send,  because  we  are  hard  up,  but  I  am  sure  that  God 
will  open  the  way  whereby  I  can  pay  my  honest  tithing  to  him,  be- 
cause I  need  his  blessings.  And,"  said  she,  "if  the  worst  comes 
to  the  worst,  I  have  a  guitar  here  in  the  home  that  we  have  had  in  the 
family  for  a  number  of  years,  and  it  is  dear  and  precious  because  of 
the  memories  of  the  father  and  mother  and  the  family,  but  before  the 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


91 


year  is  closed,  if  it  is  necessary  we  will  take  the  instrument  out  and 
sell  it  and  use  the  money  to  pay  our  tithing  to  the  Lord,  that  he  may 
bless  us  with  the  blessings  which  we  as  a  family  so  much  need." 

That  is  the  kind  of  faith,  the  kind  of  people  who  count  most  with 
the  Lord,  men  and  women  who  sacrifice  and  do  things  because  of  their 
faith  in  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 

My  brethren  and  my  sisters,  let  us  not  think  that  just  because  we 
are  members  of  this  Church  it  is  not  necessary  to  remember  to 
be  honest,  generous,  and  sympathetic,  and  kind ;  because  by  these 
fruits  ye  are  known,  not  only  by  men  on  the  earth  but  by  God  in  the 
heavens  above.  And  may  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  and  be  with 
us,  in  our  daily  lives,  that  we  may  be  worthy  of  God's  blessings  and 
mercy,  I  humbly  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

One  of  the  most  delightful  things  that  characterize  our  general 
conferences,  to  my  mind,  is  the  presence  of  our  mission  presidents. 
It  is  always  a  delight  to  me  when  a  breeze  comes  in  from  the  mission 
field.  It  bears  with  it  the  spirit  of  testimony,  and  I  delight  to  hear 
these  presidents  as  they  are  called  upon  from  time  to  time  to  address 
the  congregations.  There  are,  however,  many  missions  that  are  of 
necessity  not  represented  at  our  general  conferences — those  beyond  the 
sea,  in  foreign  lands.  What  a  delightful  thing  it  would  be  if  there 
could  come  a  message  from  all  of  these  various  missions!  Who  knows 
but  that  the  time  may  yet  come,  through  the  wonderful  modern  inven- 
tions— through  the  use  of  airplanes  and  otherwise — that  they  may  be 
brought  from  those  distant  lands  and  have  their  voices  heard  in  the 
general  assembly  of  the  Church  at  each  conference  time? 

During  the  last  few  weeks  it  has  been  my  lot  to  be  very  much 
engaged  in  matters  pertaining  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  have  gather- 
ed up  to  the  land  of  Zion  from  those  lands  beyond  the  sea,  where 
foreign'  languages  are  spoken.  Efforts  are  being  made  to  bring  them 
more  closely  in  contact  with  the  general  authorities  of  the  Church 
than  ever  have  been  made  before.  The  gospel  message  has  been 
carried  unto  them  all  in  fulfilment  of  that  vision  that  came  to  the  be- 
loved disciple,  who  saw  "another  angel  flying  through  the  midst  of 
heaven,  having  the  everlasting  gospel  to  proclaim  unto  them  that  dwell 
upon  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue,  and  people,  and 
crying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God  and  give  glory  to  him,  for  the  hour 
of  his  judgment  is  come." 

In  fulfilment  of  that  great  prophecy  the  messenger  came  from 
the  realms  above;  the  gospel  has  been,  and  is  now  being  proclaimed 
in  many  languages  and  to  many  people.  The  honest  in  heart  are 
being  gathered  into  the  fold  of  Christ,  and  many  of  them  have  come 
up  to  the  land  of  Zion  to  cast  their  lots  and  identify  their  interests  among 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  people  of  God.  Having  come  here,  sometimes  I  think  they  have 
been  greatly  neglected,  through  a  failure  on  our  part  to  provide  ade- 
quate means  whereby  they  could  realize  the  blessings  which  they  hoped 
for  when  they  left  their  native  lands.  They  have  come  up  here  that 
they  might  be  taught  in  the  ways  of  the  Lord,  that  they  might  learn  to 
walk  in  his  paths ;  and  yet,  on  account  of  the,  to  them,  strange  language 
spoken  in  the  country  of  their  adoption,  they  were  unable  to  understand  ; 
and,  of  course,  it  became  necessary  to  provide  these  people  with  or- 
ganizations whereby  they  could  hold  meetings  and  hear  the  gospel  and 
the  teachings  of  it  in  their  own  native  tongues,  long  before  they 
would  be  able  to  acquire  a  knowledge  of  this  English  language. 

In  order  that  they  might  have  increased  facilities  for  the  holding 
of  meetings,  where  they  could  be  taught  the  principles  of  the  gospel 
and  be  brought  in  closer  contract  with  the  presiding  authorities  of  the 
Church  and  under  its  more  immediate  supervision,  the  First  Presidency 
appointed  a  Committee  of  which  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  is  the  chairman,  to  look  into  all  matters  per- 
taining to  our  foreign  language  Saints  and  to  have  a  general  super- 
vision over  all  such  gatherings  in  cooperation,  of  course,  with  the 
regular  stake  and  ward  authorities.  In  pursuance  of  this  purpose  the 
foreign  Latter-day  Saints,  residing  in  the  six  stakes  of  Salt  Lake 
city  and  vicinity,  have  recently  been  reorganized  and  consolidated  into 
one  separate  organization  for  each  separate  language  and  nationality. 
That  is,  one  for  the  Danes,  one  for  the  Swedes,  one  for  the  Nor- 
wegians, and  one  for  the  Scandinavians  (comprising  the  above  three)  ; 
also  one  for  the  Swiss  and  Germans  and  one  for  the  Dutch,  making 
six  organizations  altogether. 

In  the  opening  remarks  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant  we  learned 
that  nearly  1,800  people  were  baptized  in  the  Swiss  and  German 
mission  during  the  year  1924  (and  many  will  doubtless  find  their  way 
to  Zion  in  due  time)  and  that  favorable  progress  is  also  being  made  in 
the  other  missions.  It  is  therefore  highly  important  that  adequate 
provision  shall  be  made  to  look  after  the  welfare  and  promote  the  in- 
terests of  these  foreign  language  Saints,  handicapped  as  they  are  by 
reason  of  the  prevailing  language  which  they  are  only  able  to  under- 
stand after  many  years  of  patient  study  and  practice.  And  in  further 
consideration  for  these  people,  the  Church  has  been  and  is  now  publish- 
ing foreign  language  papers,  the  supervision  and  management  of  which 
have  also  been  given  to  this  committee.  We  who  speak  our  own 
mother  tongue,  the  English  language,  the  language  of  America,  can 
hardly  appreciate  what  it  means  to  these  foreigners  when  they  are  sud- 
denly plunged  into  a  new  country,  the  customs,  manners  and  language 
of  which  are  to  them  unknown. 

Through  the  medium  of  these  foreign  language  meetings  and 
newspapers  the  Church  is  endeavoring  to  render  a  service  of  great 
value,  a  blessing  and  a  comfort  to  our  foreign  Latter-day  Saints : 
By  instructing  them  in  the  principles  of  the  gospel ;  in  teaching  them 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


93 


their  duties  in  the  Church;  in  assisting  and  encouraging  them  to  af- 
filiate with  the  regular  organizations  of  the  Church;  in  teaching  them 
loyalty  to  their  adopted  country,  and  how  to  become  real  American 
citizens;  in  giving  news  from  their  native  lands  and  the  missions  in 
which  they  were  converted  to  the  truth ;  in  giving  news  from  their 
friends  and  kindred  both  at  home  and  abroad,  and  also  in  inspiring  them 
with  patriotic  love  for  their  adopted  country  and  loyal  devotion  to  the 
great  cause  of  truth  for  which  they  have  left  their  native  lands. 

There  is  very  much  yet  to  be  done  in  this  direction.  Not  nearly 
enough  has  been  yet  translated  into  their  languages.  Of  course,  the 
standard  works  of  the  Church  are  published  in  those  foreign  tongues, 
but  think  of  the  vast  amount  of  literature  that  has  been  written  by  such 
men  as  Elders  B.  H.  Roberts,  James  E.  Talmage  and  others  of  our 
splendid  writers,  that  ought  also  to  be  translated  and  published  in  those 
languages. 

Thus  it  will  be  apparent  that  the  presiding  authorities  of  the 
Church  desire  to  make  adequate  provisions  for  these,  our  brethren  and 
sisters,  who  like  ourselves  are  of  the  House  of  Israel  and  have  been 
converted  through  the  labors  of  our  missionaries,  and  our  hearts 
should  go  out  in  love  and  sympathy  for  them  and  in  appreciation  of 
the  peculair  difficulties  which  they  have  to  overcome  by  reason  o'f  their 
foreign  tongue.  And  they  should  be  made  to  feel  that  they  "are  no 
more  strangers  and  foreigners  but  fellow  citizens  with  the  Saints  and 
of  the  household  of  God." 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  appreciate  these  things  and  to  do  our 
part  in  helping  them  feel  in  very  deed  that  they  are  our  brethren 
and  sisters  engaged  in  a  common  cause,  in  the  upbuilding  of  the 
Church  and  kingdom  of  God.  I  pray  that  we  may  all  do  so,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire 
is  burning." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Arthur  F.  Barnes. 


i 

SECOND  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

A  second  overflow  meeting  of  the  conference  was  held  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  at  2  p.  m.,  Sunday,  April  5,  1925. 

Elder  David  A.  Smith  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  presided. 

Music  was  furnished  by  the  Highland  Park  choir,  conducted  by 
Elder  Gerrit  Dejong;  organist,  Tracy  Y.  Cannon. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for 
a  prophet." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Patriarch  Milando  Pratt. 
The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Gloria,"  by  Mozart. 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  S.  YOUNG 

President  of  the  N  or  thvoe stern  States  Mission 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  these  occasions  are  very  memorable 
in  the  life  of  a  missionary,  because  he  rarely  has  the  opportunity  of 
addressing  so  large  a  gathering  as  the  present  one.  The  work  in  the 
northwest  is  progressing.  Our  baptisms,  I  am  happy  to  state,  are 
gradually  increasing,  the  spirit  among  the  Saints  is  better  at  present 
than  it  has  been  in  the  past.  We  are  making  very  strenuous  en- 
deavors to  erect  churches  where  we  lack  them  in  the  various  places 
where  we  have  organized  branches,  for  (frequently  we  '.have  only 
a  Sunday  School  in  some  places,  while  in  others  we  have  branches 
with  completely  equipped  organizations,  Relief  Society,  Mutual  Im- 
provement Associations,  and  Primaries.  We  are  rather  stressing  the 
work  of  the  Primaries;  because  we  find  that  we  are  able  to  and  do 
gather  into  our  little  associations  the  children  of  people  who  will  not 
themselves  attend  our  services.  We  have  some  very  faithful  local 
as  well  as  missionary  sisters,  who  are  engaged  in  Primary  work,  and 
the  average  of  the  mission  is  that  two-thirds  of  the  membership  is 
non-"Mormon."  The  parents  in  many  instances  are  being  interested 
through  their  children,  the  children  carrying  home  to  parents  some 
suggestions  of  the  truths  that  they  have  acquired  in  the  Primary  as- 
sociations. 

The  missionary  work  which  is  the  particular  feature  that  engros- 
ses the  greater  part  of  my  attention,  because  of  the  fact  that  I  have 
largely  to  direct  the  labors  in  it  and  do  not  to  the  same  degree  come 
in  personal  contact  with  the  brethren  and  sisters  who  constitute  the 
various  organizations — is  of  the  character  that  I  cannot  speak  in  too 
high  terms  of  the  workers,  their  excellence,  their  faithfulnesss,  their 
cleanness,  the  beauty  of  their  lives  and  the  strength  they  manifest  in 
proclaiming  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  an  inspiring  thing 
to  any  olne  who  has  the  opportunities  that  I  have  had  to  observe  it  so 
closely. 

We  endeavor  to  teach  the  missionaries  not  only  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  (and  I  refer  more  particularly  to  the  first  principles  of 
the  gospel),  but  we  are  also  endeavoring  to  implant  in  their  hearts 
a  proper  idealism  of  the  greatness  of  this  work  with  which  we  are 
associated.  We  endeavor  to  teach  them  that  the  missionary  experience 
they  are  enjoying  is  only  a  small  part  of  what  is  expected  of  them  in 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  it  is  merely  the  laying  of  the  fonnda- 
tion  upon  which  they  may  build  their  future  lives.  We  are  endeavor- 
ing to  establish  in  their  hearts  and  consciousness  the  ideals  of  "Mor- 
monism,"  the  greatest  ideals  that  God  has  ever  given  his  children  to 
enjoy  We  teach  them  that  they  have  come  to  the  earth  lor  a  specific 
purpose,  that  that  purpose  is  the  salvation  of  the  souls  of  men,  that 
the  mere  fact  that  they  are  in  the  field  for  a  couple  of  years  is  onlv 


ELDER  BRIG  HAM  S.  YOUNG 


95 


incidental  to  the  life  that  they  are  expected  to  lead,  to  the  work  they 
are  expected  to  perform.  And  they  are  faithful,  they  are  attentive  in 
their  desire,  and  endeavor  to  acquire  a  knowledge  not  only  of  the 
gospel  but  of  the  things  pertaining  to  the  progress  of  civilized  peoples, 
the  history  of  the  world,  and  the  association  that  men  and  women 
have  with  each  other,  all  of  which  should  have  for  its  object  the  bene- 
fiting of  society.  These  are  the  fundamental  things  we  endeavor  to 
teach  the  missionaries.  They  sometimes  come  to  us  crude;  they  come 
to  us  with  a  lack  of  understanding;  they  come  to  us  sometimes  with 
but  little  education ;  and  to  the  degree  that  they  lack  education,  to  that 
degree  are  they  handicapped.  We  are  learning  that  in  order  to  reach 
any  class  of  people  you_must  have  a  man  or  representative  who  is  cap- 
able of  teaching  that  class  of  people.  And,  while  the  boys  and  the 
girls  are  highly  successful  in  their  contacts  with  men  of  affairs,  we 
find  the  more  highly  educated  they  are,  the  greater  is  their  sphere  of 
usefulness.  I  am  convinced  that  the  standards  of  education  are  being 
constantly  advanced  in  our  community,  not  alone  for  the  purpose  of 
improving  the  power  of  the  missionaries,  but  that  also  we  may  rise 
to  the  lofty  plane  that  sometime  we  must  occupy  in  filling  our  destiny; 
for,  as  Brother  Stephen  L.  Richards  said  yesterday,  we  are  a  great 
people,  and  there  is  no  power  that  can  prevent  us  from  occupying  a 
high  place  in  the  history  of  the  world,  if  we  will  be  true  to  the  ideals 
that  God,  through  his  servants,  has  revealed  to  us. 

Speaking  again  of  the  Northwest,  we  have  an  Indian  school  on 
the  Fort  Peck  Reservation,  in  Montana,  which  is  maintained  by  the 
Church.  We  have  at  the  present  time  thirty  pupils  in  that  school, 
which  is  the  crowded  capacity  of  the  school.  We  cannot,  with  our 
present  force  of  missionaries — for  we  are  limited  on  the  Reservation  as 
well  as  in  other  parts  of  the  mission — send  out  among  the  people  of 
that  tribe,  the  number  of  missionaries  necessary  to  have  contact  with 
all  the  residents  of  the  reservation.  But  we  do  take  as  many  of  their 
children  into  our  schools  as  we  can  accomodate  and  teach  them  there 
the  principles  of  the  gospel,  while  at  the  same  time  we  are  giving  them 
the  fundamentals  of  education.  We  board  them,  and  we  provide  lodg- 
ing for  them ;  they  live  at  the  mission  home  during  the  entire  school 
year.  And  while  some  of  the  adjoining  schools,  which  are  conducted 
by  other  churches,  have  some  difficulty  in  retaining  their  pupils,  keep- 
ing them  within  the  confines  of  the  school,  we  have  the  same  diffi- 
culty in  getting  the  Indian  children  to  go  home  and  remain  there, 
owing  to  the  different  spirit  that  characterizes  the  teaching  of  your 
boys  and  girls  as  its  influence  is  reflected  in  the  hearts  and  minds  of 
those  little  children.  I  have  seen  them  hang  about  their  teachers  in  at- 
titudes of  almost  worship,  because  those  boys  and  girls  love  these 
Indian  children,  and  you  cannot  touch  the  Indian  heart,  any  more 
than  you  can  touch  any  other  human  heart,  except  by  the  glorious  emo- 
tion of  love.    And  so  the  Indian  children  love  your  sons  and  daughters, 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  there  has  come  to  be  a  great  respect  for  the  ''Mormon"  people. 

It  was  only  a  few  days  ago  that  I  was  in  Wolf  Point  and  had 
the  opportunity  of  conversing  with  two  of  the  chief  Indians  of  the 
Assinniboine  and  Sioux  tribes,  George  Conners  and  Meade  Steele. 
I  had  met  with  them  a  year  or  more  ago  and  they  had  asked  me  for 
letters  to  our  senators  and  representatives  in  Congress,  at  Washing- 
ton. I  had  been  very  glad  to  comply  with  that  request,  particularly 
as  I  have  the  honor  of  being  a  personal  friend  of  Senator  Reed  Smoot, 
of  Senator  William  H.  King,  and  also  of  Commissioner  Spry,  who  is 
located  in  Washington.  My  correspondence  has  been  chiefly  with 
Senators  Smoot  and  King,  and  these  Indians  testified  to  me  that  never 
had  they  met  with  such  kindliness  of  treatment  as  was  accorded  them 
by  these  brethren.  And,  said  they,  "We  have  taken  our  other  Indian 
friends,  of  tribes  from  other  parts  of  the  states,  Oklahoma,  and  other 
places,  and  introduced  them  to  Senators  Smoot  and  King,  and  it  is 
our  fervent  testimony  that  we  have  never  had  the  same  success  in 
achieving  our  rights  as  has  been  accorded  us  under  the  able  advice  and 
tutelage  of  Senators  Smoot  and  King."  And  so  they  say,  "We  know 
that  your  people  are  our  friends;  the  great  men  among  your  people 
have  evinced  such  great  interest  in  the  Indian  affairs."  And  they  both 
testified  to  me  that  by  reason  of  the  kindness  they  had  received  at 
the  hands  of  our  brethren  they  had  been  led  to  investigate  the  faith 
of,  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  each  of  them  testified  they  knew  the 
Book  of  Mormon  to  be  true,  because  they  had  read  it  from  cover  to 
cover,  and  because  it  told  them,  illustrated  to  them  the  great  truths, 
in  a  plainer  and  more  direct  manner,  of  the  legends  which  are  so 
generally  maintained  among  them. 

The  mission,  as  I  have  said,  is  prosperous.  We  are,  I  hope, 
doing  our  job.  It  is  the  desire  of  your  sons  and  daughters  to  do  the 
thing  they  have  been  sent  there  to  do,  and  I  would  like  the  parents  and 
the  friends  of  the  boys  and  girls  in  the  mission  field  to  encourage  them 
in  their  work.  But  do  not  send  them  too  much  money ;  they  are  just 
as  well  off  without  it.  The  boys  and  girls  who  have  accomplished 
missions  on  the  least  money  have  evinced  the  highest  development. 
So  if  you  would  have  your  boys  and  girls  properly  educated  as  mis- 
sionaries, do  not  in  the  kindness  of  your  hearts,  send  them  too  much 
money.  You  may  even  stint  them  a  little  and  it  will  not  be  to  their 
injury.  Sometimes  young  people,  not  having  had  previous  experience 
in  the  expending  of  money,  as  is  the  case  with  some  of  them,  do  not 
always  spend  it  judiciously.  While  they  are  good,  they  are  just  young 
people,  and  we  may  not  be  too  lavish  with  our  children,  because  lavish- 
ness  in  parents  has  a  tendency  to  break  down  the  finer  and  better  morale 
of  the  nature  than  to  increase  it.  Remember,  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  our  fathers  worked  for  what  they  had,  as  you  doubtless  are  doing, 
and  as  I  know  in  many  instances  the  parents  and  friends  are  doing 
to  maintain  in  the  missionary  fields  their  boys  and  girls,  at  great  sac- 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  S.  YOUNG 


97 


rdfice  to  themselves ;  and  it  is  only  proper  that  the  boys  and  girls  in 
the  field  should  share  in  those  sacrifices. 

1  am  grateful  to  you,  to  the  Church,  to  the  leaders  of  our  com- 
munity, to  God,  for  the  opportunity  he  has  given  me  for  the  associa- 
tions I  enjoy  with  your  sons  and  daughters.  They  are  a  great  in- 
spiration to  any  man  who  observes  their  faithfulness  and  the  beauty 
of  their  lives.  Endeavor  to  encourage  them  when  they  shall  return, 
that  they  may  continue  in  the  spirit  of  missionary  labor;  for  if  this 
people  shall  once  come  to  realize  their  real  mission  in  life,  they  will 
know  that  they  are  missionaries — not  missionaries  in  the  word  alone 
but  missionaries  in  every  act  of  their  lives.  You  cannot  understand 
or  know,  how  much  you  affect  your  environment  by  your  acts,  but 
every  man  every  day  writes  his  impress  on  the  universe  by  the  acts 
of  his  life,  by  the  thoughts  of  his  heart,  by  the  words  that  he  speaks ; 
and  the  highest  idealism  in  "Mormonism"  is  that  we  shall  save  these 
children  of  our  Father.  Let  us  be  worthy  of  the  great  heritage  that 
has  come  to  us  from  our  forebears;  let  us  be  faithful  to  God.  My 
testimony  to  you  is  that  your  boys  and  girls  are  faithful  to  God.  They 
are  striving  to  the  full,  as  opportunity  is  afforded  them,  to  perform 
the  duties  that  they  have  gone  out  into  the  world  to  perform. 

My  testimony  is,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  is  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  This  is  the  work  of  God.  And  your  boys  and  girls 
are  learning  it  by  contrasting  it  with  other  religions,  so  called,  of  the 
world,  and  they  are  learning  that  "Mormonism"  is  indeed  the  truth 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  That  we  may  be  worthy  of  what  God  has 
promised  us,  and  that  we  may  live  so  as  to  enjoy  it,  I  humbly  ask  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  EUGENE  J.  NEFF 

President  of  the  Hazvaiian  Mission 

I  believe  my  throat  was  never  so  dry  as  it  is  upon  this  occasion. 

I  come  from  the  land  of  Hawaii,  from  the  land  of  perpetual  sun- 
shine and  flowers.  I  bring  to  you  the  love  and  greetings  of  our  14,000 
Saints  who  live  on  those  fairy  islands.  I  believe  that  there  is  no  place 
in  all  the  world,  with  the  exception  possibly  of  the  stakes  of  Zion, 
where  the  gospel  has  been  so  firmly  established  as  it  has  been  in 
Hawaii,  among  those  chosen  people  of  Joseph.  I  commend  the  work 
of  the  people  who  were  missionaries  there  in  the  early  days  of  the 
Church,  and  who  labored  so  assiduously  to  establish  the  work  so 
firmly  upon  those  islands.  I  believe  that  there  has  never  been  a  man 
in  Hawaii  who  has  done  more  for  the  establishing  of  the  cause  of 
truth  and  righteousness  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands  (except  possibly  it 
be  the  late  Presidents  Joseph  F.  Smith  and  George  Q.  Cannon)  who 
has  devoted  his  time,  his  ability,  and  talents  to  the  growth  of  the 
work  there  any  more  than  Samuel  E.  Woolley,  who  died  day  before 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


yesterday.  I  mourn  his  loss,  because  J  know  of  the  great  good  he  has 
done  among  the  people  on  those  islands.  I  know  their  love  for  him,  and 
I  know  the  sorrow  which  will  he  in  their  hearts  when  they  learn  of  his 
passing  away.  T  believe,  however,  that  it  is  the  will  of  the  Lord  that 
lie  should  go,  because  his  life  the  last  few  years  has  not  been  as  happy 
as  it  might  have  been,  and  I  believe  in  the  spirit  world  he  will  have 
the  privilege  and  the  opportunity  of  laboring  with  the  departed  spirits 
of  those  people  whom  he  so  dearly  loved. 

During  the  recent  centennial  anniversary  of  the  Protestant  churches 
in  Honolulu,  one  of  the  speakers  arose  and  said  that  in  one  hundred 
years  and  with  the  expenditure  of  vast  fortunes,  running  into  millions  of 
dollars,  the  Protestant  church  had  converted  ten  to  twelve  thousand  men, 
while  the  "Mormon"  Church  had  been  there  thirty  years  less  time  and 
had  expended  practically  no  money  but  had  converted  between  sixty  and 
seventy  thousand  people.  They  came  to  me  and  wanted  to  know  why 
it  was  that  the  "Mormon"  Church  was  able  to  reach  the  hearts  and 
minds  of  the  people  more  than  they  had  done,  and  I  told  them  our 
system  of  work  among  the  people.  Their  representative  replied,  "I 
do  not  see  so  much  difference  in  that."  And  I  told  him  that  it  was  not 
so  much,  possibly,  in  that,  as  in  the  fact  that  those  people  are  the 
chosen  seed  of  Joseph,  and  susceptible  to  the  teachings  of  true  religion. 

I  have  seen  the  heathen  Chinaman,  the  Mohammedan  Jap,  those 
who  had  no  belief  in  God,  through  intermarriage  with  the  Hawaiian 
people  the  children  of  whom  have  become  believers  in  the  living  God, 
who  are  susceptible  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  have  never  seen 
an  infidel  among  the  Hawaiian  people ;  I  have  never  seen  one  who 
denied  a  belief  in  the  true  and  living  God. 

During  a  recent  convention  of  sugar  men  in  Washington,  D.  C, 
the  Governor  of  the  Territory  was  present. — And  I  might  say  that 
we  have  labored  for  the  past  twenty-five  years  to  be  recognized  as  a  part 
of  the  United  States,  as  a  territory  of  the  United  States  and  not  as 
an  insular  possession.  It  has  been  felt  by  some  people  that  Hawaii 
should  be  merely  an  island  possession  of  the  United  States,  but  it  is 
a  territory  and  has  rights  as  a  territory  and  is  today  being  recognized 
as  a  territory.  I  have  come  here  with  the  intention  of  convincing 
people  here  in  Zion,  if  I  can,  that  we  are  no  longer  a  mere  island  of 
the  sea,  set  apart  from  the  people  of  the  United  States,  but  a  part 
and  portion  and  an  integral  part  of  the  United  States. — The  Governor 
of  Hawaii,  made  this  assertion  before  some  of  our  Utah  sugar  men, 
who  were  there  gathered,  "There  has  never  been  a  church  in  Hawaii 
that  has  done  more  for  the  uplift  of  the  Hawaiian  people  than  the 
Latter-day  Saints."  And  he  further  concluded  by  saying,  "They  are 
our  foremost  citizens  of  the  Territory  of  Hawaii  in  the  work  of 
rehabilitating  the  Hawaiians." 

A  law  was  passed  by  Congress  a  few  years  ago  appropriating 
one  million  dollars  to  make  possible  the  return  of  the  Hawaiians  to  the 
soil.  The  Governor  of  the  Territory  made  application  to  me  to  find  one 


ELDER  EUGENE  ].  NEFF 


99 


of  our  returned  "Mormon"  elders,  who  had  labored  among  the  Hawai- 
ian and  who  was  familiar  with  western  farm  life,  to  go  there  and  direct 
|the  rehabilitating  of  the  Hawaiian  people  on  the  farms 

Mr.  Samuel  W.  Robely,  the  Scout  executive  of"  Hawaii  met 
Oscar  A.  Kirkham  in  one  of  their  conventions.   He  was  found  smoking 

Yl P?Srt  ;  Kirk  iaT-  Br°ther  Kirkham  Patted  him  on  the  back  and 
said,  Robely,  I  think  a  great  deal  of  you,  but  I  would  think  a  great 
deal  more  of  you,  and  I  believe  you  would  make  a  better  Boy  Scout 
leader,  if  you  would  not  smoke."  Mr.  Robley  told  me  himself  that  he 
has  never  lit  a  cigarette  or  cigar  silnce,  but  he  has  been  reminded  of  the 
words  of  Oscar  Kirkham.  In  a  convention  of  Boy  Scouts  in  Honolulu 
he  made  this  assertion,  "Before  we  become  successful  in  some  of  our 
;Boy  Scout  organizations,  we  will  have  to  convert  these  people  to 
''Mormonism,"  to  make  them  better  Boy  Scouts.  For  the  state  of 
Utah  leads  in  the  Boy  Scout  movement." 

We  have  in  Hawaii  today  a  man  from  Wisconsin  who  claims  that 
fee  is  going  to  revolutionize  the  religious  world;  he  is  going  to  take 
pie  best  out  of  all  the  religions  and  put  it  together  and  make 
a  religion  that  can  be  comprehended  by  all— a  religion  that  is  modern 
and  not  one  that  was  fit  and  suitable  for  the  Jewish  people  only. 
[He  came  to  me  and  wanted  to  know  what  there  was  in  our  religion  that 
we  considered  best,  that  would  be  fit  and  proper  to  make  a  part  of  this 
.new  religion  which  he  is  trying  to  form.  And  I  told  him  that  I 
thought  that  we  had  that  formed  just  as  completely  as  any  man-made 
religion  and  more  so.  He  said,  "I  am  not  trying  to  make  a  religion  of 
gory  own,  but  I  want  to  modernize  Christianity  and  make  it  suitable  to  the 
day  in  which  we  live."  And  he  told  me  of  the  churches  in  the  east  who 
liad  two  of  the  ten  commandments  from  the  Decalogue  and  substituted 
two  others.  The  first  was,  "In  six  days  the  Lord  made  the  heavens  and 
Bie  earth,  the  seas  and  the  fountains  of  water,  and  all  that  in  them  is, 
and  rested  the  seventh  day."  He  said,  "You  don't  believe  that;  that 
would  be  all  right  for  the  Jews  in  their  day,  but  in  our  day,  these 
[modern  times,  we  cannot  accept  that  doctrine  and  we  have  got  to 
modernize  Christianity."  I  told  him  that  it  was,  possibly,  because  we 
Hid  not  understand  the  creation  of  this  earth.  We  were  in  our  church 
building  at  that  time,  which  is  built  of  concrete  and  lumber.  I  told 
pirn  to  examine  those  timbers  and  tell  me  how  old  the  meetinghouse 
Etnight  be,  but  he  told  me  it  was  but  a  few  years  old.  Then  I  said, 
Blow  old  are  the  timbers  in  this  meetinghouse?"  And  he  told  me 
fthey  might  be  many  years  old.  And  I  said,  "How  long  has  it  been 
since  those  timbers  grew  on  the  mountain  side?  How  old  was  the  seed 
from  which  those  timber  grew?  And  before  that,  where  was  the 
tree  which  produced  the  seed  that  grew  the  timbers  which  we  sawed  into 
lumber  and  made  into  that  building?"  I  said,  "It  can  go  back  to 
eternity !  In  fact,  all  matter  is  eternal ;  there  is  no  creation  of  matter, 
but  merely  an  organization."  He  said  to  me,  "It  is  the  first  time  I  have 
lever  understood  it  in  that  way ;  I  supposed  the  Lord  created  and  brought 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


these  things  to  pass  by  the  word  of  his  mouth."    And  I  told  him  that 
I  thought  he  did  not,  any  more  so  than  we  organized  the  building  out  ^ 
of  materials  which  did  not  exist. 

The  other  thin?,  he  said,  that  we  have  got  to  substitute  another 
thing  for  is  the  statement  that  the  sins  of  the  parents  rest  upon  the 
children  unto  the  third  and  fourth  generation.  He  said,  "this  is  un- 
kind unjust;  no  loving  God  would  ever  be  so  unkind  and  unjust  to 
his  children.''  I  said.  "All  that  I  would  ask  you  to  do  is  make  a 
trip  to  Molokai,  the  island  of  the  lepers,  that  prison  which  is  bounded  by 
the  ocean  on  three  sides  and  a  perpendicular  precipice  of  2,000  feet  on 
the  other  side— a  natural  prison,  where  all  those  who  have  contracted 
leprosy  are  placed— and  upon  this  island  I  will  prove  to  you  that  the 
sins  of  the  fathers  do  rest  upon  the  children  unto  the  third  and  fourth 
generation."  I  have  seen  those  who  have  been  afflicted  with  this 
dreadful  disease,  whose  children  have  not  had  the  disease,  whose 
grandchildren  have  not  had  the  disease,  but  in  the  third  and  the  fourth 
generation  I  have  seen  leprosy  break  out  among  the  descendants  of  those 
people  who  had  that  disease  before.  No  one  can  tell  me,  I  said,  that 
the  sins  of  the  parents  do  not  rest  upon  the  children  unto  the  third 
and  the  fourth  generation  of  men. 

I  am  happy  to  be  engaged  in  the  missionary  work.  I  come  from 
the  firing  line,  from  the  front,  where  we  are  battling  to  establish  the 
kingdom  of  God  and  righteousness  among  the  children  of  men.  We 
have  arrayed  against  us  Satan  and  his  forces ;  we  have  come  in  conflict 
with  them  many  times,  but  I  am  thankful  to  say  that  nearly  every 
time  we  have  come  out  victorious,  and  the  splendid  sons  and  daughters 
you  are  sending  into  the  mission  field  are  valiant  fighters  for  the  cause 
of  truth  and  libertv  in  the  world.  I  am  happy  in  the  thought  that  I 
have  been  called  to'  labor  among  such  splendid  young  men  and  women. 
The  early  part  of  my  life  was  cast  among  people  who  were  not  devout 
religionists,  who  were  not  given  to  religious  worship;  but  today  my 
whole  life  is  devoted  to  the  cause  of  truth  and  the  labor  among  these 
splendid  boys.  I  have  heard  them  testify  many  times  of  the  inspiration 
and  love  which  they  have  from  me.  I  want  to  bear  testimony  also 
that  I  receive  inspiration  from  them;  the  love  which  I  have  for  your 
sons  and  daughters  in  the  mission  field  is  almost  akin  to  brotherly  love, 
to  the  love  which  I  have  for  my  own  brothers  and  sisters. 

The  Hawaiian  mission  is  prosperous,  one  of  the  biggest  missions 
in  the  Church.  I  believe  there  are  no  sincerer,  truer  Latter-day  Saints 
in  all  the  world  than  we  have  upon  the  islands  of  the  sea.  I  pray  God 
that  the  spirit  of  the  missionary  work  may  penetrate  the  hearts  of  you 
fathers  and  mothers  who  are  here  at  home,  that  you  may  be  able  to  let 
your  sons  and  daughters  go  into  the  mission  field,  that  you  will  be  will- 
ing to  make  the  needed  sacrifice  to  maintain  them  in  the  mission  field  as 
long  as  their  services  are  needed. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  all.  I  testify  to  you  that  God  has  again 
spoken  from  the  heavens,  that  his  Church  is  again  established  on  the 


ELDER  EUGENE  J.  NEFF 


101 


earth,  and  that  all  that  learn  to  obey  his  commandments  and  walk  in 
obedience  to  the  laws,  will  receive  the  blessings  of  eternal  life  in  the 
celestial  kingdom  of  our  heavenly  Father.  May  this  be  our  happy  lot, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  quartet  consisting  of  Mrs.  Irene  S.  Cummings,  Mrs.  Madeline 
Calloway,  Milton  Fisher  and  DeVon  Meacham,  sang,  "Send  out  thy 
Light." 

ELDER  A.  WILLIAM  LUND 

Assistant  Church  Historian 

I  most  humbly  desire,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers  for  the  few  moments  I  may  occupy  this  afternoon. 
I  am  thankful  for  the  privilege  I  have  had  of  attending  the  meet- 
ings, thus  far,  of  our  wonderful  conference,  and  to  have  received 
the  instructions  of  our  president  and  other  elders  of  the  Church  who 
have  spoken  to  us.  I  rejoice  in  my  membership  in  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ.  I  value  it  above  everything  I  have.  I  hope  and  trust 
that  I  may  always  be  faithful  and  true  to  the  covenants  which  I  have 
made,  with  my  Father,  an(d  that  we  all  may  be  true  to  the  covenants 
we  have  made  with  our  Father  when  we  accepted  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  took  upon  ourselves  his  name. 

The  beautiful  song  just  rendered,  "Send  out  thy  Light,"  seems 
to  have  been  fulfilled  in  the  sending  forth  of  the  missionaries  of  this 
Church,  sending  them  out  to  preach  the  everlasting  gospel,  the  light  of 
the  world,  which  will  lead  us  back  into  the  presence  of  our  Father. 
These  missionaries  are  clothed  with  his  power  to  go  into  the  world 
and  preach  unto  men  the  gospel  of  life  and  salvation  having  the  same 
Priesthood  and  power  that  have  always  made  clear  to  the  world  the 
difference  between  the  Church  of  God  and  all  other  churches.  This 
Priesthood  is  the  distinguishing  feature  which  makes  us  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  God's  power  unto  this  people  to  act  in  bis  name, 
so  that  they  may  carry  forth  the  message  of  salvation,  perform  the 
ordinances  of  life  eternal,  so  that  men  and  women,  obeying  the 
gospel  message,  may  enter  his  Church.  This  power  of  God  has  always 
been  with  his  people  from  the  very  'beginning.  Whenever  there  has 
been  a  prophet  of  God  among  the  children  of  men,  he  has  been  clothed 
with  the  power,  the  Priesthood  of  God,  to  act  in  his  name.  It  is 
through  this  Priesthood  that  the  revelations  of  God  are  given  to  men. 
It  is  the  channel  of  revelation,  it  is  that  which  constitutes  a  man  the 
president  of  his  Church  and  his  prophet  upon  the  earth. 

The  power  of  this  Priesthood  has  been  manifested  in  many  dif- 
ferent ways.  It  is  manifested  in  the  organization  of  the  Church ;  the 
healing  of  the  sick ;  the  raising  of  the  dead ;  the  wonderful  prophetic 
utterances,  and  in  the  miracles  that  the  prophets  performed  when  they 
were  upon  the  earth. 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


It  was  by  the  power  of  the  Priesthood  that  Elijah  sealed  the 
heavens,  so  that  for  three  years  no  rain  fell  in  the  land  and  a  sore 
famine  afflicted  the  people.  It  was  by  this  same  power  of  the  Priest- 
hood that  Elijah  raised  the  dead  boy.  Yon  remember  the  story  of  how 
he  went  and  lived  with  a  widow  and  her  son,  during  this  famine;  that 
they  had  just  a  little  meal  and  oil  which  lasted  until  the  fan  line  abated. 
The  son  was  taken  sick  and  died.  The  mother  came  to  Elijah  com- 
plaining that  he  had  come  to  call  her  sins  to  remembrance  and  slay 
her  son.  The  Prophet  asked  for  her  son  and  took  him  to  his  own 
room  where,  by  the  Priesthood  he  held,  he  raised  this  boy  from  the 
dead  and  brought  him  back  again  to  his  mother. 

It  was  the  power  of  this  Priesthood  which  gave  Moses  the  ability 
to  do  the  wonderful  miracles  that  he  did.  Moses  was  called  of  God 
and  was  ordained,  we  are  told  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  under 
the  hands  of  Tethro,  the  priest  of  Midian,  a  man  having  the  authority 
of  God.  and  w*ho  gave  it  to  Moses.  When  Moses  was  instructed  by 
God  to  go  down  into  the  land  of  Egypt  and  bring  out  of  bondage  the 
chosen  people,  the  Israelites,  he  went  clothed  with  the  power  of  the  holy 
Priesthood,  and  he  made  manifest  to  these  people  more  than  once  the 
power  of  God  in  their  behalf,  that  they  might  be  taught  again  that 
there  is  a  God  in  heaven,  the  God  of  Israel.  They  had  lived  for  some 
hundreds  of  years  in  Egypt,  under  the  teachings  of  the  Egyptians,  and 
had  departed  from  the  true  and  the  living  God  in  that  they  were  wor- 
shiping idols.  This  is  evidenced  in  the  "fact  that  when  Moses  was 
away  from  the  camp  in  the  mountains,  a  short  time,  about  forty  days, 
receiving  from  God  instructions  to  take  back  to  the  people  and  teach 
them  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation,  the  people  prevailed  upon  Aaron 
the  brother  of  Moses,  to  make  a  calf  which  they  might  worship.  Now. 
the  calf  represented  one  of  the  gods  of  the  Egyptians  and  Israel  re- 
turned to  the  worship  of  idols  while  Moses  was  away.  When  Moses 
came  down  to  the  camp  and  heard  the  peoule  singing,  he  asked  what 
was  going  on,  and  when  Joshua  told  him  of  the  conditions,  he  cast  the 
tablets  of  stone  to  the  ground  and  broke  them,  even  though  they  had 
written  upon  them,  by  the  finger  of  God  himself,  the  commandments 
which  he  desired  taught  unto  his  people.  He  went  into  the  camp,  de- 
stroyed the  calf  and  scattered  about  the  broken  pieces,  and  then  went 
back  into  the  mountain  to  appeal  to  the  Lord  to  forgive  his  children. 

Here  is  an  example  of  strength  and  character  that  the  Priesthood  of 
God  gives  to  a  man  when  he  obeys  the  principles  and  teachings  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  no  greater  temptation  can  ever  be  placed 
in  the  path  of  man  than  was  given  to  Moses  at  this  time.  The  Lord 
offered  to  make  of  Moses  a  mighty  na-  i<m  :  c  ffered  to  make  his  seed 
numerous  as  the  sands  upon  the  seashore ;  offered  Moses  the  right 
that,  through  his  seed  all  nations  might  be  blessed,  but  Moses  said, 
Not  so,  O  God,  thou  hast  made  this  covenant  with  thy  servant  Abra- 
ham and  thy  servants  Isaac  and  Jacob,  that  of  them  thou  wouldst 


ELDER  A.  WILLIAM  LUND 


103 


make  many  nations  auid  that  through  their  seed  should  all  nations 
be  blessed.  Moses  refused  to  accept  of  this  wonderful  blessing.  He 
proved  himself  true  to  the  trust  and  calling  that  God  had  given  to  him. 
He  came  back  into  the  mountains  and  prayed  to  God,  that  he  would 
forgive  the  people  of  Israel,  and  pleaded  with  him  and  wanted  to  know 
what  the  people  of  Israel  would  think  of  this  kind  of  a  God,  that 
would  take  his  children  out  into  the  wilderness  and  then  destroy  them. 
Moses  offered  himself  that  God  destroy  him  and  blot  his  name  out  of 
the  book  of  remembrance,  that  he  should  never  foe  numbered  more 
among  the  children  of  men,  if  only  God  would  forgive  the  children 
of  Israel.  God  did  not  withstand  the  pleadings  of  that  faithful  man, 
and  he  forgave  the  children  of  Israel  their  transgressions. 

This  power  of  the  Priesthood,  when  exercised  rightly,  heals  the 
sick  and  raises  the  dead.  You  rememner  the  wonderful  miracles  that 
Jesus  Christ  himself  did  among  the  children  of  men.  When  the  apostles 
after  him  went  among  the  people,  preaching  unto  them,  they,  too,  did 
many  wonderful  things  in  the  name  of  God.  One  striking  example: 
after  Peter  and  John  had  been  away  preaching  for  some  time,  they 
were  returning  to  the  city  of  Jerusalem,  and  as  they  neared  the  gate 
of  the  temple,  called  "Beautiful,"  there  was  a  lame  man  there  begging 
alms.  He  had  been  lame  from  his  childhood,  and  begged  alms  of 
Peter  and  John.  Peter  said  to  him,  "Silver  and  gold  I  have  none;  but 
such  as  I  have,  give  I  thee.  In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Nazareth 
rise  up  and  walk."  And  he  arose,  was  made  whole,  through  the  ex- 
ercise of  this  Priesthood  of  God  which  Jesus  Christ  himself  had  given 
to  Peter  and  to  John. 

In  the  days  in  which  we  live,  I  testify  to  you  in  'humility,  this 
same  power  of  the  Priesthood  of  God  has  been  made  manifest.  In  the 
early  history  of  the  Church,  one  member  of  the  Church,  Elijah  Ford- 
ham  was  lying  very  ill,  in  fact,  he  was  upon  his  death  bed.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  came  into  the  room  and  asked  him  if  he  knew  him, 
and  he  said  "Yes,"  then  the  prophet  asked  him  if  he  had  faith  in  God 
that  he  could  be  healed,  and  he  said,  he  had.  Then  Joseph,  taking 
him  by  the  hand,  said,  "Brother  Fordham,  I  command  you,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  to  arise  from  this  bed  and  'be  made  whole." 
And  he  arose  from  his  bed  and  was  made  whole. 

This  power  also  brings  to  the  prophets  of  God  a  knowledge 
of  things  that  shall  come  to  pass.  On  the  sixth  day  of  August,  1842, 
the  Prophet  Joseph  made  a  prophecy  that  the  people  should  be  led  to 
the  valleys  of  these  mountains,  that  many  would  die  from  exposure, 
some  from  hardships  that  would  befall  them,  but  the  Saints  would 
come  and  build  a  wonderful  colony  here  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains. 
It  has  been  literally  fulfilled.  This  same  spirit  of  prophecy  rested 
upon  President  Brigham  Young",  the  man  who  succeeded  the  Prophet 
"Joseph  in  the  presidency  of  God's  Church.  Out  on  the  plains,  in  1846, 
he  told  the  brethren  that  a  temple  of  God  would  be  erected  in  the  tops 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  mountains,  and  that  endowments  would  be  given  in  the  tops 
of  the  mountains,  which  has  been  literally  fulfilled.  After  the  Saints 
had  been  driven  from  Nauvoo,  where  the  people  had  received  the 
blessing's  of  God  in  that  wonderful  temple,  built  by  the  sacrifice  of  our 
people  both  in  time  and  means,  and  after  suffering  untold  hardships, 
they  came  into  this  valley.  Just  a  few  .days  after  their  arrival,  President 
Young  with  some  other  members  of  the  Twelve  were  standing  upon 
this  Temple  block,  when  President  Young  struck  his  cane  in  the  ground 
and  said,  "Here  we  will  build  a  temple  unto  God."  President  Wilford 
Woodruff  bears  testimony  that  the  temple  was  built  upon  the  spot  where 
President  Young  drove  his  cane  into  the  ground.  How  did  President 
Young  know  that  the  people  would  even  stay  here  when  they  got  here? 
How  did  he  know  that  they  would  give  of  their  time  and  their  means, 
amounting  to  about  four  millions  of  dollars,  for  the  erecting  of  that 
temple,  except  by  the  revelations  of  God,  and  by  the  witness  of  the 
Spirit  of  God  to  him  that  this  was  true? 

And  so,  if  time  permitted  I  could  enumerate  many  other  instances, 
showing  that  this  Priesthood  of  God  is  with  this  people.  I  bear  you 
my  humble  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  do  know  that 
this  is  God's  work,  that  this  is  his  Church,  that  the  men  who  have  stood 
at  the  head  of  this  Church  are  prophets  of  God,  that  the  man  who  stands 
at  the  head  of  the  Church  today  has  the  keys  of  the  Holy  Melchizedek 
Priesthood,  the  power  of  God  to  open  the  door  of  life  eternal  to  all  the 
world,  the  power  to  save  every  child  of  God  if  he  will  obey  the  gospel 
of  our  Lord  and  Master. 

I  bear  you  my  witness  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and 
that  his  gospel  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  through  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON 

Assistant  Church  Historian 

T  have  enjoyed  the  remarks  made  by  the  previous  speakers  and  have 
listened  with  attention  to  the  reports  from  the  two  presidents  of  mis- 
sions and  to  the  historical  narrative  by  Brother  Lund. 

After  listening  also  to  the  excellent  discourse  delivered  this  morn- 
ing by  President  Ivins,  in  which  he  recited  the  beautiful  story  of  the 
Israelites,  and  also  referred  to  the  return  of  the  Jews  to  their  land — ■ 
their  original  land  of  inheritance — I  was  led  to  reflect  upon  an  event 
which  took  place  in  Kirtland,  Ohio,  on  the  3rd  of  April,  1836,  when 
Moses  appeared  in  the  Kirtland  temple  and  delivered  unto  Joseph 
Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  the  keys  for  "the  gathering  of  Israel  from 
the  four  parts  of  the  earth  and  the  leading  of  the  Ten  Tribes  from 
the  Jand  of  the  North."  We  understand  by  this  that  it  referred  not 
only  to  the  Jews,  but  to  the  other  tribes  of  the  House  of  Israel  as  well, 
and  that  it  means  a  general  gathering  dispensation.    Many  centuries 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


105 


ago,  the  children  of  Israel  were  scattered  to  the  four  corners  of  the 
earth,  but  in  the  last  days  God,  according  to  prophecy,  will  cause  them 
to  be  gathered  again  from  the  islands  of  the  sea,  from  the  lands  of  the 
north,  and  from  wheresoever  they  have  been  driven.  In  connection 
with  this,  I  was  thinking  of  some  notes  that  I  made  recently  regarding 
the  preaching  of  the  gospel  in  the  different  nations  of  the  earth,  as  the 
question  may  consistently  be  asked :  Have  the  Latter-day  Saints  been 
faithful  and  diligent  in  preaching  the  gospel  to  the  nations  and  in 
gathering  Israel? 

Jesus  instructed  his  apostles,  shortly  before  he  ascended  into 
heaven,  to  go  out  into  all  the  world  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every 
creature.  John,  in  his  vision  upon  the  Isle  of  Patmos,  saw  an  angel 
flying  through  the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting  gospel  to 
preach  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people.  We  see  the  ful- 
filment of  that  prophecy  in  the  visit  to  Joseph  Smith  by  the  angel 
Moroni  through  whom  the  elders  of  the  Church  in  our  dispensation 
received  their  first  commission  to  preach. 

While  Joseph  was  engaged  in  translating  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
assisted  by  Oliver  Cowdery,  in  Harmony,  Pennsylvania,  and  in  Seneca 
county,  New  York,  in  1829  and  1830,  they  testified  of  the  restoration 
of  the  gospel  to  the  people  in  these  localities  and  when  these  men  had  • 
been  ordained  to  the  Priesthood  by  John  the  Baptist,  and,  according  to 
the  command  that  he  gave  them,  had  baptized  and  reordained  each 
other,  they  commenced  to  baptize  others.  The  next  to  be  baptized 
after  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  was  Samuel  H.  Smith,  a 
brother  of  the  Prophet  Joseph.  From  that  time  on  until  the  6th  of  April, 
1830,  about  thirty  people  were  baptized  altogether,  and  on  the  day 
mentioned,  as  you  remember,  the  Church  was  organized,  with  six 
members.  Of  those  baptized  only  six  members  seem  to  have  been 
present  when  the  organization  was  effected  at  Fayette ;  at  least  the 
Church  was  organized  with  six  members  whose  names  are  known. 

As  soon  as  that  was  done,  the  preaching  of  the  restored  gospel 
commenced  in  earnest.  Oliver  Cowdery  preached  the  first  public 
discourse  ever  delivered  by  a  Latter-day  Saint  elder  in  this  dispensation, 
on  Sunday,  the  11th  of  April,  1830,  and  I  venture  to  say  that  since  that 
memorable  Sunday  there  has  never  been  a  Sabbath  day  but  what  the 
elders  of  the  Church  have  lifted  up  their  voices  and  borne  testimony 
to  the  truth  of  the  gospel.  At  the  present  time  several  thousand  elders 
raise  their  voices  every  Sabbath  day  preaching  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  in  the  various  stakes  of  Zion  as  well  as  in  the  missionary  fields. 

Among  the  first  elders  of  the  Church  was  Peter  Whitmer,  Jr.,  who, 
together  with  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery,  as  early  as  April, 
1830,  commenced  missionary  journeys  away  from  Fayette.  One  of  their 
first  trips  was  to  Colesville,  in  Broome  county,  New  York,  about  thirty 
miles  from  Fayette,  where  the  Church  had  just  'been  organized.  In 
Colesville,  the  first  convert  to  the  restored  gospel  was  Newel  Knight, 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


who  afterwards  became  prominent  in  the  Church.  Soon  a  number  of 
others  embraced  the  gospel  in  that  neighborhood,  and  so  it  is  recorded 
in  Church  history  that  the  Colesville  branch  was  the  first  branch  of  the 
Church  organized  after  the  first  organization  in  Fayette,  New  York, 
and  it  was  also  the  first  branch  of  the  Church  that  fulfilled  the  com- 
mand of  "gathering  to  Zion."  The  Colesville  branch  led  the  van  of 
the  gathering  of  Israel  in  these  last  days  by  traveling  as  a  body  about 
1300  miles  from  Colesville,  New  York,  to  the  place  designated  for 
gathering,  in  Jackson  county,  Missouri. 

Soon  after  that,  other  elders  entered  the  missionary  field  preach- 
ing the  gospel.  Thus  Samuel  H.  Smith  also  became  one  of  the  first 
missionaries  of  the  Church.  He  went  to  Lavonia,  Livingston  county, 
New  York,  and  after  suffering  much  persecution,  the  elders  succeeded 
in  getting  a  foothold  there,  and  branches  of  the  Church  were  soon 
afterwards  raised  up  in  that  neighborhood. 

In  August  of  the  same  year,  Joseph  Smith,  Senior,  and  Don  Carlos 
Smith  performed  a  mission  to  St.  Lawrence  county,  New  York,  where 
they  converted  a  number  of  the  Smith  family.  It  seems  that  all  of 
these  except  two  became  members  of  the  Church,  and  most  of  them 
remained  faithful  and  true  adherents  to  the  faith  the  rest  of  their 
•  lives. 

In  October,  1830,  Oliver  Cowdery,  Parley  P.  Pratt,  Peter  Whitmer, 
Jr.  and  Richard  Ziba  Peterson  were  called  by  revelation  on  a  special 
mission  to  travel  to  the  far  west  to  preach  the  gospel  to  the  Lamanites, 
and  thus  a  few  months  after  the  Church  was  organized,  our  missionaries 
had  gone  as  far  as  1300  miles  away  from  Fayette  preaching  the  gospel 
on  the  way,  not  only  to  the  Lamanites  but  aho  to  the  whites. 

I  am  relating  these  things,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  you  may 
know  that  we  have  been  diligent  in  keeping  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord  in  regard  to  preaching  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  First  we 
preached  in  the  United  States,  but  after  the  keys  had  been  given  by 
Moses  for  gathering  Israel,  as  has  been  referred  to,  the  Elders  also 
went  into  foreign  lands. 

It  may  be  interesting  to  know  who  the  first  elders  in  the  Church 
were,  and  not  only  that,  but  who  were  the  first  missionaries  of  the 
Church — the  first  of  the  many  thousands  of  missionaries  who  since 
have  preached  the  gospel  in  nearly  all  parts  of  the  world.  We  have 
between  1500  and  2,000  elders  out  in  different  parts  of  the  world 
preaching  the  gospel  at  the  present  time.  It  has  always  been  interesting 
to  me  to  know  who  preceded  me  in  preaching  in  the  different  localities 
where  I  have  labored,  and  I  imagine  that  the  same  is  the  case  with 
others.  The  first  sixteen  missionaries  in  the  Church  were  Joseph 
Smith,  Jr.,  Oliver  Cowdery,  John  Whitmer,  David  Whitmer,  Samuel  H. 
Smith,  Joseph  Smith,  Sr.,  Don  Carlos  Smith,  Parley  P.  Pratt,  Hyrum 
Smith,  Newel  Knight,  Richard  Ziba  Peterson,  Peter  Whitmer,  Jr., 


ELDER  ANDREW  JEN  SON 


107 


Sidney  Rigdon,  Frederick  G  Williams,  John  Murdock  and  Orson  Pratt, 
These  elders  alt  labored  as  missionaries  in  the  year  1830. 

It  may  be  interesting  for  Patriarch  Milando  Pratt,  who  is  present 
with  us  in  this  meeting,  to  lknow  that  his  father,  Orson  Pratt,  was 
among  the  first  missionaries  of  the  Church,  'being  only  nineteen  years 
old  when  first  called  into  the  ministry.  He  had  been  baptized  on  his 
birthday  and  soon  afterwards  was  ordained  to  the  Priesthood  and  sent 
out  to  preach.  Orson  Pratt  died  in  1881,  a  faithful  elder  in  the  Church, 
and  one  of  the  twelve  apostles. 

Time  will  only  permit  me  to  refer  very  briefly  to  what  has  been 
done  by  our  missionaries,  but  it  seems  important  that  we  should  know 
how  diligent  the  elders  of  the  Church  have  been  from  the  beginning 
in  introducing  the  gospel  into  the  different  states  of  the  Union,  and 
into  many  nations. 

First  they  preached  in  New  York  and  Pennsylvania.  In  1831,  they 
went  as  far  east  as  Vermont,  where  Joseph  the  prophet,  Brigham  Young 
and  many  others,  who  became  prominent  men  in  the  Church,  were 
born.  Elder  Jared  Carter  organized  a  branch  of  the  Church  at  Benton, 
on  the  west  side  of  the  Green  Mountains — the  first  branch  in  Vermont. 
The  restored  gospel  was  also  preached  in  Illinois,  Missouri,  Kansas, 
Indiana  and  Michigan,  in  1831 ;  and  even  some  of  the  elders  entered 
Kentucky  and  Virginia  the  same  year. 

The  next  year  (1832)  Orson  Hyde  and  Samuel  H.  Smith  filled 
an  important  mission  to  the  Eastern,  or  New  England,  states,  and  during 
that  year  the  gospel  was  first  introduced  in  New  Jersey,  Massachusetts, 
Connecticut,  Rhode  Island,  New  Hampshire  and  Maine.  In  the  last 
named  state,  Elder  Wilford  Woodruff  later  performed  a  splendid 
mission  upon  the  Fox  Islands. 

In  1834,  the  elders  entered  Tennessee.  David  W.  Patten,  Warren 
Parrish,  Wilford  Woodruff  and  Abraham  O.  Smoot  were  the  first 
missionaries  in  that  state.  Wilford  Woodruff  and  Henry  Brown  preached 
the  gospel  in  Arkansas,  in  1835.  Into  Maryland  the  gospel  was  in- 
troduced as  early  as  1837;  and  North  Carolina  was  entered  by  Jedediah 
M.  Grant  (father  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant),  in  1838.  The  same 
year  missionaries  visited  Iowa  and  later  organized  branches  of  the 
Church  in  that  state,  which  afterwards  'became  the  home  of  many  of 
the  Latter-day  .Saints  after  their  expulsion  from  Missouri. 

The  first  Latter-day  Saint  missionaries  entered  South  Carolina, 
in  1839.  The  first  elder  in  that  state  was  Lysander  M.  Davis.  Mission- 
aries entered  Wisconsin,  in  1840,  and  that  state  has  been  a  fruitful 
field  of  labor  ever  since. 

The  first  Latter-day  Saint  missionaries  entered  the  states  of 
Mississippi,  Louisiana  and  Delaware  in  1841,  Florida  about  1842, 
Georgia  (where  we  now  have  the  headquarters  of  the  Southern  States 
mission),  Alabama  and  Texas,  in  1843,  and  California,  in  1846.  The 
first  Latter-day  Saints  in  California  were  that  company  who,  after  sail- 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ing  from  New  York  in  the  ship  Brooklyn,  landed  where  San  Francisco 
now  stands,  July  31,  1846.  They  found  there  only  a  small  Spanish 
village,  called  Yerba  Buena,  which  the  Brooklyn  people  soon  turned  into 
a  thrifty  town  called  San  Francisco,  and  made  it  not  only  an  ordinary 
Anglo  Saxon  town,  but  with  "Mormons"  in  the  majority. 

In  what  is  now  South  Dakota  we  find  our  people,  in  1846.  They 
entered  at  or  near  the  point  where  the  Vermillion  river  empties  into 
the  Missouri.  An  elder  of  the  Church,  by  the  name  of  James  Emmett, 
tried  to  lead  a  company  of  Saints  astray  at  the  time  the  Church  had 
lost  its  first  leader  and  prophet,  and  the  people  did  not  know  exactly 
whom  to  follow.  James  Emmett  spent  the  winter  of  1846  and  1847 
in  what  is  now  South  Dakota  with  a  number  of  people  who  followed 
him,  and  while  he  himself  never  became  a  faithful  elder  in  the  Church 
afterwards,  most  of  his  company  returned  to  the  fold. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  were  introduced  into  what  is  now  Colorado, 
New  Mexico  and  Arizona  by  the  Mormon  Battalion,  in  1846  and  the 
Saints  were  not  only  the  first  representatives  of  the  Church  in  what  is 
now  the  state  of  Colorado,  but  they  were  also  the  founders  of  the  first 
Anglo-Saxon  settlement  in  that  part  of  our  great  country.  The  sick 
detachment  of  the  Mormon  Battalion,  and  a  small  company  of  Saints 
from  the  state  of  Mississippi,  spent  the  winter  of  1846-1847  at  Pueblo, 
which  up  to  that  time,  was  a  small  Mexican  and  Indian  village. 

In  Nebraska,  Winter  Quarters  (built  by  the  Sanits  in  1846)  was  the 
first  Anglo-Saxon  settlement  of  any  importance.  We  were  just  as  much 
the  first  Anglo-Saxon  settlers  of  Nebraska  as  we  were  the  first  pioneers 
of  Utah. 

Some  of  the  exiled  Saints  from  Nauvoo,  Illinois,  found  them- 
selves, in  1846,  traveling  west  and  passing  through  what  is  now  the 
state  of  Wyoming  (it  was  not  Wyoming  until  1868),  but  the  pioneers 
of  1847  were  the  first  Latter-day  Saints  in  that  part  of  the  country; 
they  located  Great  Salt  Lake  City  the  same  year. 

Members  of  the  Mormon  Battalion,  after  having  served  their 
country  faithfully  one  year,  returned  eastward  by  way  of  Carson  Valley, 
in  Nevada,  in  1847,  and  in  1851  our  people  made  the  first  real  settlement 
in  Nevada,  where  Latter-day  Saints  have  resided  ever  since. 

We  entered  Idaho  in  1847.  Samuel  Brannan,  who  had  led  the 
Brooklyn  company  from  New  York  to  the  Bay  of  San  Francisco  the 
previous  year,  being  anxious  to  intercept  Brigham  Young  and  the 
pioneers,  crossed  the  mountains  to  tell  President  Young  what  a  beautiful 
country  the  San  Juaquin  Valley,  in  California,  was.  After  meeting 
President  Young  on  Green  river,  he  became  very  much  displeased 
when  the  president,  as  he  entered  the  valley  of  the  Great  Salt  Lake, 
said,  "This  is  the  place,"  and  then  stopped  here,  instead  of  going  (ac- 
cording to  Brother  Brannan's  advice)  to  locate  in  California,  which  in 
reality  had  many  attractions  at  that  time  as  compared  to  the  Salt  Lake 
country.    In  Idaho  also  we  became  the  first  settlers.    Samual  Brannan, 


ELDER  ANDREW  JEN  SON 


109 


coming  from  California  over  the  Sierra  Nevada  mountains  by  way  of 
old  Fort  Hall  passed  through  the  southern  part  of  what  is  now  Idaho. 
Some  time  afterwards  the  Saints  located  the  first  Anglo-Saxon  settle- 
ments in  Idaho  (Fort  Limhi,  in  1855,  and  Franklin,  in  1860). 

The  president  of  the  Northwestern  states  mission,  who  is  present 
with  us  today,  may  he  interested  in  knowing  that  as  early  as  1850 
Charles  C.  Rich  appointed  Boyd  Stewart  to  take  a  mission  to  Oregon, 
and  that  is  the  beginning  of  the  missionary  work  which  we  have  since 
carried  on  in  that  state  and  the  great  Northwest.  We  cannot  tell 
exactly  at  the  present  time  when  the  first  elders  entered  what  is  now 
the  state  of  Washington,  from  Oregon.  We  entered  Indian  Territory 
(now  Oklahoma)  in  1855,  and  we  have  carried  on  missionary  work 
there  ever  since,  both  among  Indians  and  whites.  We  entered  Montana 
in  1869,  Minnesota  as  early  as  1875,  and  North  Dakota  about  the  same 
time. 

This  covers  all  of  the  United  States,  and  proves  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  have  preached  the  restored  gospel  in  every  state  in  the  Union. 
In  some  states  they  have  done  more  work  than  in  otners,  because  of 
the  tolerance  or  intolerance  of  the  people.  The  Church  has  always 
had  elders  who  were  on  hand  to  preach  in  all  parts  of  the  United 
States  and  elswhere. 

I  shall  now  briefly  refer  to  our  foreign  missions.  As  early  as 
1832,  the  missionaries  of  the  Church  crossed  the  St.  Lawrance  river 
and  lake  Ontario  into  Canada  and  commenced  to  preach  the  gospel 
in  that  part  of  the  British  Dominions,  and  from  that  time  until  the 
present  there  have  been  Latter-day  Saints  in  Canada  and  at  times  also 
flourishing  branches  of  the  Church.  At  the  present  time  we  have 
a  well  established  mission  in  Canada. 

In  June,  1837,  the  first  Latter-day  Saint  missionaires  crossed  the 
Atlantic  Ocean  and  opened  the  door  for  missionary  work  in  Great 
Britain.  I  need  not  give  details  of  that  mission,  for  you  know  what 
Great  Britain  has  been  to  the  Church.  Tens  of  thousands  of  Saints 
have  gathered  from  England,  Scotland,  Wales  and  Ireland,  to  the 
gathering  places  in  America,  and  the  Church  would  look  very  much 
different  to  what  it  does  today  if  it  had  not  been  for  the  acquisition 
that  has  come  to  it  from  the  British  Isles. 

Our  missionaries  entered  British  India  in  1840,  and  in  1853,  a 
regular  mission  was  established  there.  Some  of  our  brethren  went 
there  as  sailors ;  we  have  still  members  of  the  Church  in  India. 

In  1841,  Orson  Hyde  arrived  in  Palestine  as  a  missionary  from 
America.  He  dedicated  the  land  for  the  gathering  of  the  Jews.  In 
1843  Elder  Noah  Rogers,  Addison  Pratt,  Benjamin  F.  Grouard  and 
Knowlton  F.  Hanks  started  from  Nauvoo,  Illinois,  for  the  Pacific 
Islands  on  a  mission.  Brother  Hanks  died  at  sea  on  his  way  to  the 
Islands  and  was  the  first  Latter-day  Saint  elder  who  found  a  watery 
grave.    The  other  elders  of  that  mission  were  successful  in  preaching 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  gospel  on  the  Society  Islands  and  neighboring  groups,  and  about 
the  time  that  Joseph  Smith  was  mrytred  in  Carthage  jail,  Addison 
Pratt  organized  the  first  branch  of  the  Church  on  the  island  of  Tubuai 
— the  first  branch  organized  among  a  non-English  speaking  people. 
One  of  the  missionaries  who  left  Nauvoo  in  1843  for  the  Pacific 
Islands,  namely,  Noah  Rogers,  stayed  on  the  islands  only  a  short  time. 
Getting  somewhat  discouraged,  he  returned  to  America  and  was  the 
first  elder  of  the  Church  to  circumnavigate  the  globe.  He  arrived  in 
Nauvoo  in  time  to  become  a  victim  of  the  persecutions  then  raging 
against  the  Saints,  was  exposed  to  the  cold  weather  and  the  hardships 
on  the  plains  of  Iowa  and  took  sick  and  died ;  he  was  the  first  Saint 
buried  at  Mt.  Pisgah,  Iowa,  where  later  about  250  Latter-day  Saints 
found,  so  to  speak,  martyrs'  graves. 

Erastus  Snow,  accompanied  by  John  E.  Forsgren,  Peter  O.  Hansen 
and  George  P.  Dykes,  arrived  in  Copenhagen,  Denmark,  in  1850,  as 
the  first  Latter-day  Saint  missionaries  to  that  land.  Elder  Snow 
baptized  the  first  converts  August  12,  1850,  and  organized  the  first 
branch  of  the  Church  in  Scandinavia  (the  Copenhagen  branch)  Sept. 
15,  1850.  John  E.  Forsgren  arrived  in  Sweden  in  June,  1850,  and 
baptized  his  first  convert  in  Gefle.  July  26.  1850.  From  the  beginning 
Denmark,  Sweden,  and  Norway  became  known  as  the  Scandinavian 
mission,  which  so  far  has  been  the  most  flourishing  mission  of  the 
Church  established  among  non-English  speaking  people.  It  is  estimated 
that  nearly  one  fifth  of  the  present  membership  of  the  Church  are  of 
Scandinavian  origin. 

In  December,  1850,  a  number  of  Elders  arrived  in  the  Hawaiian 
Islands.  We  are  pleased  to  have  listened  to  the  president  of  the 
Hawaiian  mission  today,  telling  us  that  this  mission  has  grown  until 
it  now  has  14,000  members.  I  have  had  the  pleasure  to  write  the 
history  of  the  Hawaiian  mission,  as  well  as  the  history  of  all  other 
foreign  missions  of  the  Church,  and  it  is  indeed  interesting  to  note 
how  our  missionary  work  has  progressed  in  many  lands  and  climes. 

In  Italy,  Lorenzo  Snow  opened  the  gospel  door  in  1850.  Tn 
Switzerland,  Thomas  B.  Stenhouse  first  preached  in  1851.  Gudmund 
Gudmunson  commenced  to  preach  the  gospel  in  Iceland  and  John 
Murdock  in  Australia,  in  1851.  In  Norway  the  gospel  was  first  in- 
troduced in  1851,  by  Elder  Hans  F.  Peterson,  who  died  many  years 
ago  in  Ephraim,  Sanpete  county,  Utah.  To  Chile,  in  South  America, 
Parley  P.  Pratt  and  Rufus  C.  Allen  went  in  1851.  They  spent  about 
seven  months  in  Valparaiso  and  vicinity,  but  came  away  without  bap- 
tizing anyone.  It  seems  that  they  were  unable  to  learn  the  Spanish 
language.  One  reason  why  so  many  young  men  are  called  on  missions 
to  the  islands  of  the  sea  and  other  places,  where  foreign  languages 
are  spoken,  is  that  people  learn  languages  easily  when  young.  For- 
iegners  who  come  to  America  from  some  old  countries  when  they 
are  over  twenty  years  of  age  usually  find  it  a  hard  task  to  acquire 


ELDER  ANDREW  JEN  SON 


111 


the  English  language  so  as  to  speak  it  without  brogue.  You  can  gener- 
ally detect  that  they  are  foreigners.  We  invariably  acquire  new 
languages  when  we  are  still  in  our  teens  better  than  later  in  life. 

In  1852,  Lorenzo  Snow  and  others  visited  Malta  (the  same  island 
where  the  Apostle  Paul  preached  the  gospel  centuries  ago)  and  estab- 
lished a  mission  there. 

The  first  Latter-day  Saint  elders  went  to  Siam  in  1853  and  also 
to  Gibraltar,  Germany  and  South  Africa.  Other  elders,  the  same 
year,  went  to  the  West  Indies.  New  Zealand  became  a  missionary  field 
for  our  elders  in  1854,  Holland  in  1861,  Austria  in  1864,  Finland  in 
1875,  Mexico  from  1875  to  1879,  the  Samoan  Islands  in  1888,  Belgium 
in  1889,  the  Friendly  Islands  (Tonga)  in  1891,  and  Japan  in  1901. 

I  am  hurrying  to  give  you  the  merest  outline.  I  have  compiled 
many  more  details  of  these  missions  which  perhaps  may  be  used  in 
Church  publications  later. 

In  my  endeavor  to  cover  so  much  ground,  I  neglected  to  explain 
that  while  the  Jews  are  being  gathered  to  Palestine  in  their  unbelief  as 
to  the  mission  of  Jesus  Christ,  many  of  the  Ten  Tribes,  who  were 
taken  to  the  Tigris  country  in  the  neighborhood  of  Nineveh,  Assyria, 
and  afterwards  traveled  northward  (where  they  are  now  found  in  the 
lands  of  the  north  and  upon  the  islands  of  the  sea),  become  converts 
to  true  Christianity.  Our  elders  have  baptized  many  of  them,  and  they 
gather  as  believers  to  the  places  which  God  has  appointed  for  that 
purpose.  Most  of  us  here  assembled  are  of  Ephraim,  or  of  the  Ten 
Tribes;  we  are  of  Israel.  This  we  are  generally  told  in  our  patriarchal 
blessings  and  tradition  bears  out  the  same  idea.  There  may  be  Gentile 
blood  in  our  veins,  but  the  blood  of  the  House  of  Israel,  we  believe, 
predominates  within  us.  Thus — while  parts  of  the  Ten  Tribes  gather 
as  converts,  the  Jews  gather  to  Palestine  in  their  unbelief,  and  will 
not  know  the  great  Redeemer  of  the  world  until  he  shall  place  his  foot 
upon  the  Mount  of  Olives  and  it  shall  be  rent  asunder;  then,  and  not 
until  then,  will  they  recognize  their  Shiloh,  or  Messiah,  in  Jesus  of 
Nazareth. 

May  God  continue  to  bless  and  prosper  the  missionary  labors  of 
our  elders.  May  you  who  are  younger  than  others  of  us  who  are  fast 
growing  old,  continue  to  preach  the  gospel  of  Christ  with  unabated 
zeal  until  the  heavenly  message  of  salvation  shall  be  preached  to  every 
nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people,  until  Israel  shall  be  gathered  in 
fulfilment  of  prophesy,  until  Zion  shall  be  fully  established  upon  the 
earth  and  until  Christ  shall  come  and  reign  as  King  of  kings  and  Lord 
of  lords.  May  our  children  and  grandchildren  after  us  have  occasion 
to  rejoice  exceedingly  in,  contemplating  the  integrity  and  faithfulness 
of  their  seniors,  and,  finally,  may  we  all  rejoice  together  in  the  celestial 
kingdom  of  our  God  and  ever  glorify  him  who  has  used  us  as  humble  in- 
struments in  his  hands  to  labor  for  the  establishment  of  his  Church 
and  kingdom  upon  the  earth.  May  God  bless  us,  I  humbly  pray  m  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


A  devotional  anthem,  words  by  Willard  Done  and  music  by  Gerrit 
Dejong.  was  sung  by  the  choir. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

It  is  now  time  for  the  dismissal  of  this  meeting,  but  let  me  take 
just  a  minute  to  give  one  or  two  more  thoughts  for  consideration. 

During  the  last  half  hour  many  have  left  this  building,  undoubtedly 
for  the  purpose  of  avoiding  the  crowd  they  would  encounter  when  the 
meetings  now  being  held  are  dismissed.  Many  of  them  have  been  stand- 
ing for  the  past  two  hours  and  perhaps  feel  justified  in  leaving.  To  my 
mind  this  should  not  be.  We  should  enter  a  house  of  worship  with  a 
spirit  of  reverence.  We  should  endeavor  to  keep  order  and  should 
consider  others  above  our  own  personal  desires.  In  lea\ing  a  service 
before  its  conclusion  we  do  not  show  this  consideration,  for  we  dis- 
turb the  congregation  and  make  it  difficult  for  the  speaker  to  follow 
his  subject.  It  is  hardly  fair  to  remind  you  of  this,  for  those  who  really 
need  this  reminder  are  on  the  outside,  but  I  am  sure  we  can  all  render 
a  service  to  the  Church  by  trying  to  encourage  one  another  to  avoid 
making  such  disturbances  when  attending  a  religious  gathering. 

During  this  conference;  a  number  of  the  mission  presidents  have 
called  our  attention  to  requirements  for  missionary  work.  President 
Young  has  just  reminded  us  that  there  is  a  tendency  on  the  part  of 
parents  to  send  missionaries  more  money  than  is  actually  needed  for 
their  missionary  labors.  The  Savior's  admonition  to  the  Twelve  was 
to  go  into  the  world,  "And  as  ye  go,  preach,  saying,  The  kingdom  of 
heaven  is  at  hand. 

"Heal  the  sick,  cleanse  the  lepers,  raise  the  dead,  cast  out  devils ; 
freely  ye  have  received,  freely  give. 

"Provide  neither  gold,  nor  silver,  nor  brass  in  your  purses, 

Nor  scrip  for  your  journey,  neither  two  coats,  neither  shoes,  nor 
yet  staves:  for  the  workman  is  worthy  of  his  meat," 

The  records  of  the  missions  justify  the  statement  that  those  en- 
gaged in  this  work  of  preaching  the  gospel,  and  who  follow  as  nearly 
as  possible  this  admonition,  are  doing  the  best  work.  This  should  be 
an  evidence  that  the  Lord  is  willing  to  assist  his  missionaries  and  will 
reward  their  faith  and  diligence.  Let  me  suggest  to  those  of  you  who 
have  sons  and  daughters  in  the  mission  field  that  you  communicate 
with  the  president  of  the  mission  and  ask  that  he  advise  you  as  to  the 
amount  needed  for  those  you  are  supporting.  If  you  will  then  follow  the 
advice  given  and  endeavor  to  impress  upon  your  son  or  daughter  the 
importance  of  doing  so,  too,  the  burden  now  placed  upon  many  who 
are  struggling  to  maintain  missionaries,  who  are  laboring  with  com- 
panions who  have  more  than  they  need,  will  be  greatly  reduced,  and 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


113 


a  condition  of  equality  will  be  more  nearly  brought  about  in  the  mission 
field. 

One  more  suggestion  and  I  am  through.  The  First  Presidency 
have  caused  to  be  established  a  home  where  missionaries  about  to  leave 
tor  the  mission  field  may  receive  a  course  of  instruction  before  their 
departure,  and  where  returning  missionaries,  who  stay  in  Salt  Lake 
City  to  report  their  labors,  may  find  lodgings.  Although  this  home  has 
been  in  operation  for  only  a  month,  we  find  that  some  of  the  out-going 
missionaries,  especially  the  young  men,  find  it  difficult  to  adapt  them- 
selves to  the  discipline  and  regulations,  apparently  not  being  accustomed 
to  having  their  freedom  curtailed.  This,  in  my  opinion,  is  a  reflection 
upon  their  home  training. 

The  examinations  given  and  the  course  of  instruction  pursued  in- 
dicate that  many  are  reporting  for  missionary  work  who  have  bodily 
defects  which  could  and  should  be  corrected  before  the  missionary 
reports  to  Salt  Lake  City. 

We  are  also  led  to  believe  that  the  courses  of  study  prepared  es- 
pecially for  the  lesser  priesthood  are  not  being  followed  with  a  view 
to  preparing  young  men  for  missionary  service.  It  is  not  sufficient  that 
they  meet  in  class  once  a  week  to  study  an  outline,  but  we  should 
also  provide  daily,  or  weekly,  labors  for  them  to  perform.  Young 
men- and  young  women  should  not  be  called  to  the  mission  field  until 
they  have  labored  in  the  Church  organizations,  and  have  become  familiar 
with  the  principles  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  I  hope  mothers  and 
fathers  will  not  leave  this  training  wholly  to  the  officers  of  the  wards, 
but  will  cooperate  with  them  and  endeavor  as  far  as  possible  to  see  that 
their  children  take  advantage  of  every  opportunity  given  to  prepare 
themselves  for  the  great  missionary  service. 

Now,  may  the  Lord  bless  you  and  help  you  in  your  efforts  to 
serve  him,  which  we  should  do  in  the  spirit  of  faith  and  humility.  We 
cannot  serve  the  Lord  without  serving  our  fellow  men.  May  we  always 
be  united  in  our  efforts  to  advocate  his  gospel  and  always  have  his  holy 
Spirit  to  guide  us,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

"Praise  God  from  whom  all  blessings  flow,"  was  sung  by  the 
choir  and  congregation. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Horace  H.  Cummings. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  SESSION 

The  conference  continued  in  the  great  Tabernacle  on  Monday, 
April  6,  1925,  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  President  Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints." 

Elder  Henry  A.  Gardner,  president  of  the  Palmyra  stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

A  reading  and  song  number,  "The  plan  of  salvation,"  from  the 
oratorio  by  H.  E.  Giles,  was  rendered  by  Grace  Emery,  and  Ray  M. 
Haddock,  with  a  double  quartet. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

Ninety-five  years  ago  today  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  was  organized.  One  of  the  fundamental  teachings  of  this 
organization  is  supported  by  the  following  scriptural  passages : 

A  FUNDAMENTAL  TEACHING 

"Jesus  answered  them,  and  said,  My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his 
that  sent  me. 

"If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine, 
whether  it  'be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself."    John  7:16,  17. 

In  accordance  with  this  teaching,  you  who  have  done  his  will,  you 
who  have  kept  his  commandments,  and  therefore  are  entitled  to  and 
have  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  have  recognized,  I  am  sure, 
the  voice  of  the  Good  Shepherd,  in  the  remarks  that  have  been  made 
during  this  conference.  That  same  spirit  has  testified  to  our  souls 
that  the  words  of  the  hymn  just  sung  "An  angel  from  on  high,  the 
long,  long  silence  broke,"  are  words  of  truth.  This  spirit  has  borne 
testimony  to  us  not  only  that  the  words  spoken  are  words  of  inspiration, 
but  also  that  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  is  truly  the  work  of  the 
Master.  , 

FIFTIETH  ANNIVERSARY  OF  THE  Y.  M.  M.  I.  A. 

On  the  10th  day  of  June,  1875,  under  divine  guidance,  as  we  be- 
lieve, President  Brigham  Young  gave  instructions  to  Junius  F.  Wells 
to  organize  the  first  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association. 
The  great  fundamentals  which  this  pioneer  leader  said  should  character- 
ize the  instructions  given  in  these  organizations  is,  faith  in  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Chrst  as  it  has  been  revealed  to  the  world  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith. 

The  fundamental  he  emphasized  is  supported  by  the  scripture  above 
referred  to :  "If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doc- 
trine, whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself."    He  who 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


115 


does  not  "know"  should  examine  his  own  thoughts  and  conduct  care- 
fully for  the  reason  why  he  does  not  know,  for  the  instruction  is  pos- 
itive that  those  who  will  do  his  will  shall  know. 

On  the  10th  day  of  June,  1925,  it  is  proposed  to  celebrate  the 
fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  establishment  of  this  great  voting  men's 
organization.  I  cannot  help  but  wonder  if  that  seer,  that  revelator,  that 
prophet  Brigham  Young  even  with  his  unusual  vision  could  look  into 
the  future  and  see  what  these  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  or- 
ganizations have  accomplished  in  this  comparatively  little  time. 

AN  EXPERIENCE 

Let  me  relate  an  experience  which  indicates  the  effectiveness  of  the 
work  of  the  two  Mutual  organizations — Young  Men's  and  Young 
Ladies'.  At  a  conference  one  week  ago  yesterday — about  this  very 
hour — I  asked  all  those  present  who  were,  or  had  been,  officers  in  any 
of  the  Church  organizations  or  in  any  of  the  Priesthood  quorums  to 
please  stand.  It  seemed  to  me  that  all  of  those  in  that  crowded  meeting 
arose.  So  many  stood  that  none  could  be  seen  seated  except  a  few 
children  in  front. 

I  asked  again  that  all  those  leaders  who  have  been  trained  in  the 
Mutual  Improvement  Associations  as  officers  or  teachers,  mem'bers  of 
committees,  or  speakers  on  the  program  please  stand.  It  appeared 
as  if  the  same  number  arose  the  second  time  as  the  first. 

M.  I.  A.  OBJECTIVES 

These  great  institutions  appear  to  be  operating  effectively  in  every 
portion  of  the  world  where  the  Church  is  known.  The  purpose  of  the 
great  pioneer  leader  in  establishing  these  institutions  is  being  ac- 
complished. Young  men  and  young  women  are  being  made  better. 
They  are  being  taught  the  fundamental  principles  of  the  gospel,  as  these 
are  laid  down  in  the  scriptures,  they  are  being  trained  in  public  speaking 
and  in  bearing  testimony,  they  are  having  instilled  into  their  hearts 
that  knowledge  which  comes  from  doing  God's  will,  from  living  strictly 
in  accordance  with  Christian  teachings.  They  are  demonsrtating  that 
"if  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be 
of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself." 

When,  throughout  the  whole  Church,  I  observe  the  intense  activ- 
ity of  great  groups  of  our  young  people,  when  I  see  the  phenomenal 
work  they  are  doing  in  the  mission  field,  when  I  observe  the  army  of 
devoutly  interested  workers  in  the  Sunday  Schools  and  Mutuals,  when 
I  see  the  effectiveness  of  our  work  in  debating,  in  public  speaking, 
and  in  various  other  forms  of  recreation,  I  wonder  if  fifty  years  ago 
even  the  Prophet  Brigham  Young  himself,  with  his  inspired  vision, 
could  see  how  great,  how  influential  and  how  effective  the  work  of  these 
institutions  would  be  today. 

The  excellence  of  the  characters  of  the  young  people  the  Church 
is  producing  with  the  aid  of  the  Mutuals  and  other  Church  agencies, 
prompts  me  to  read  one  other  passage  of  scripture : 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  the  kingdom 
of  heaven;  hut  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven. 

"Many  will  say  to  me  in  that  day,  Lord,  Lord,  have  we  not  prophesied 
(in  thy  name?  and  in  thy  name  have  cast  out  devils?  and  in  thy  name 
done  many  wonderful  works? 

"And  then  will  T  profess,  unto  them,  I  never  knew  you:  depart  from 
me,  ye  that  work  iniquity. 

"Therefore  whosoever  heareth  these  sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them, 
I  will  liken  him  unto  a  wise  man,  which  built  his  house  upon  a  rock: 

"And  the  rain  descended,  and  the  floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew, 
and  beat  upon  that  house;  and  it  fell  not:  for  it  was  founded  upon  a  rock." 
Matt.  7:21-25. 

A  PEOPLE  OF  STERLING  WORTH  PRODUCED 

The  more  I  study  the  doctrines  of  the  Church  and  Church  organ- 
ization, the  more  'beauty  and  perfection  I  find.  It  is  nearly  a  hundred 
years  since,  under  the  direction  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the 
Church  was  originally  established.  It  is  now  practically  fifty  years 
since  the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Associations  were  or- 
ganized and  their  work  was  begun,  under  the  inspired  leadership  of  the 
great  pioneer  prophet.  A  careful  study  of  the  results  of  these  two 
great  movements  shows  that  a  hardy  people  of  sterling  worth  has  been 
produced,  I  have  analyzed  these  institutions  and  judging  them  by  their 
fruits,  I  have  concluded  that  I  may  fail,  or  you  may  fail,  or  others  may 
not  be  able  to  live  in  accordance  with  the  doctrines,  teachings  and  com- 
mandments of  the  Church,  yet  the  best  judgment  I  have  tells  me  that 
the  Church  and  its  organization  and  its  effective  work  will  go  on  in- 
definitely. As  far  as  the  welfare  and  progress  of  these  organizations 
are  concerned,  we  need  have  no  fear,  for  the  faith  of  the  people  to 
whom  these  institutions  are  entrusted  is  founded  on  a  rock. 

When  June  10th  comes,  and  you  see  our  great  Jubilee  commemorat- 
ing and  celebrating  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  organization  of  the 
Young  Men's  Mutuals,  your  hearts,  like  those  of  all  other  Latter-day 
Saints,  will  be  thrilled  with  justifiable  pride.  The  Young  Ladies' 
organization  is  joining  in  this  celebration.  In  it  they  will  play  an 
important  part.  You  will  see  thousands  of  our  members,  young  men 
and  young  women,  marching  through  the  streets  of  this  city.  The 
various  divisions  will  be  carrying  great  banners,  indicating  the  strength 
and  power  of  the  young  people  who  are  workers  in  these  two  institu- 
tions of  the  Church.  When  you  see  them  in  the  pink  and  vigor  of 
manhood  and  womanhood,  your  souls  will  be  stirred  with  the  feeling 
that  they  cannot  fail,  for  their  faith  is  founded  on  a  rock. 

THRIFT  AND  FINANCIAL  SUCCESS 

The  generation  of  young  men  and  young  women  that  the  Church 
is  producing  is  expected  to  be  well  nigh  perfect.  Among  their  own 
commendable  characteristics  they  must  have  the  spirit  of,  and  they  must 
practice,  thrift.  I  was  greatly  interested  in  what  Senator  Smoot  said 
upon  that  subject  Sunday.  I  believe  in  thrift.  We  cannot  have  a 
great  generation  of  strong  characters  unless  they  practice  thrift.  We 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


117 


are  to  be  a  people  of  power,  we  are  to  be  empire-builders.  We  can 
only  secure  the  means  necessary  to  attain  these  ends  if  we  live  within 
our  incomes  and  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  economy  and 
thrift. 

Many  years  ago,  when  I  was  a  young  man  and  an  officer  in  the 
Mutual  Improvement  organization  of  the  Utah  stake,  when  that  stake 
covered  all  of  Utah  county,  I  asked  a  wise  man  who  had  been  a  finan- 
cial success  what  I  should  teach  the  young  men  with  whom  I  came  in 
contact  as  a  Mutual  Improvement  officer,  and  as  a  teacher  in  the  B.  Y. 
Academy,  at  Provo,  what  lessons  I  should  teach  these  young  people  in 
order  to  make  them  successful  financially. 

"This  is  an  easy  matter,"  said  the  wise  old  pioneer.  "All  young 
people  need  to  be  taught  is  to  spend  less  than  they  make." 

Are  you  spending  less  than  you  make?  Are  you  teaching  those 
with  whom  you  are  associated  to  live  also  in  accordance  with  this 
splendid  teaching? 

If  the  faith  and  integrity  and  real  worth  of  the  people  are  to  be 
founded  on  a  rock,  they  must  practice  economy  and  thrift.  • 

It  is  said  that  automobiles  may  be  responsible  for  many  financial 
failures,  that:  "The  sheriff  has  put  many  a  man  on  his  feet  financially 
by  taking  away  his  automobile." 

AUTOMOBILES  AND  SUCCESS 

If  the  faith,  the  integrity  and  the  real  worth  of  the  people  are 
founded  on  a  rock,  they  will  not  buy  automobiles  or  other  luxuries  they 
cannot  afford. 

I  was  told  recently  by  a  dealer  in  automobiles  that  when  they  sent 
a  messenger  to  the  home  of  a  man  who  was  purchasing  a  machine  on 
the  installment  plan — the  monthly  payment  plan — he  found  a  home 
bearing  evidence  of  poverty.  In  it  were  a  woman  and  a  family  of 
children  without  the  real  necessities  of  life.  The  purchaser  of  the 
automobile  was  behind  in  his  payments  some  two  or  three  months.  When 
asked  concerning  their  financial  condition  the  lady  explained  that  they 
were  not  able  to  keep  up  their  payments  on  the  automobile,  that  all  they 
had  had  to  live  on  for  the  last  three  months  was  what  they  had  secured 
from  the  Church.  It  is  such  as  these  who  need  to  learn  the  lessons  of 
thrift  and  economy. 

I  appeal  to  you  and  to  your  children  and  to  your  children's  children, 
and  to  your  neighbors,  and  to  your  friends,  and  to  all  the  people,  not 
to  purchase  automobiles  until  they  have  the  money  with  which  to  pay 
for  them.  Heaven  bless  you  with  sufficient  wisdom  to  be  able  to  see 
that  the  making  of  monthly  payments  on  automobiles  is  tremendously 
expensive. 

If  we  have  integrity  founded  on  a  rock,  we  shall  prize  our  good 
names  more  than  money,  and  our  word  will  be  as  binding  as  our  bond. 

QUALITIES  REQUIRED  OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

If  there  are  people  in  the  Church  who  are  willing  to  assume  obli- 
gations they  cannot  meet,  then  we  are  in  need  of  more  teachers  like 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Doctor  Karl  G.  Maeser.  We  need  to  have  impressed  upon  the  minds 
of  the  people  that  life  itself  is  no  more  precious  than  honor.  We  must 
have  a  people  with  vision,  a  people  with  judgment,  a  people  who  will 
meet  their  obligations  and  will  assume  no  obligations  they  cannot  meet. 

When  students  came  to  the  B.  Y.  Academy  at  Provo  that  great 
teacher,  Karl  G.  Maeser,  had  them  give  their  word  of  honor  that  they 
would  live  in  accordance  with  the  teachings  of  the  Church  and  obey 
the  rules  of  the  school. 

He  explained  that  many  students  came  to  him  and  asked  what  he 
meant  by  "word  of  honor."  That  great  teacher  with  high  ideals  ex- 
plained that  if  he  were  placed  behind  prison  walls  ever  so  high  and  ever 
so  thick,  extending  to  any  depth  in  the  ground,  there  would  always 
be  a  possibility  that  at  some  time,  in  some  way  he  would  be  able  to 
escape.  "But,"  said  this  splendid  saint,  "place  me  in  the  middle  of 
that  floor,  draw  a  chalk  line  around  me,  have  me  give  my  word  of 
honor  never  to  cross  that  line.  Can  I  ever  escape?  No,  never!  I  die 
first."  That  is  the  sterling  worth  that  is  founded  on  a  rock.  It  is 
qualities  like  this  the  people  must  have  if  the  purposes  of  the  Divine 
Master  are  to  be  accomplished. 

Faith  and  testimony,  honor,  integrity  and  mercy,  these  are  qualities 
required  of  Latter-day  Saints  according  to  the  gospel  which,  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  has  been  restored  in  these  last  days.  The  Mu- 
tuals  and  other  auxiliary  organizations  have  been  established  also  under 
divine  inspiration  as  helps  in  government.  The  fundamental  aim  of 
these  institutions  is  to  teach  the  members  of  the  Church  to  "do  his 
will."    For  if  they  "do  his  will,"  they  shall  know  of  the  doctrine. 

KNOWLEDGE  MUST  BE  FOLLOWED  BY  WORKS  AND  HONOR 

Nor  is  knowledge  concerning  the  doctrines  of  the  Church  enough. 
We  are  to  'be  judged  not  by  our  faith  but  by  our  works.  Character  is 
essential.  Frugality  is  important.  Economy  must  be  practiced.  Honor 
of  the  quality  described  by  Dr.  Karl  G.  Maeser  must  be  a  character- 
istic of  the  people.  God  himself  has  not  power  enough  to  accomplish 
his  purposes  with  a  people  who  are  without  honor.  We  believe  in 
being  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  and  virtuous.  The  Mutuals 
and  other  organizations  throughout  the  Church  are  doing  their  utmost 
to  bring  up  a  people  who  live  in  accordance  with  all  these  virtues.  Our 
progress  may  appear  to  be  slow,  but  actually  it  is  rapid.  The  work 
is  the  work;  of  Divine  Providence.  We  need  fear  only  for  our  in- 
dividual selves.  The  cause  being  divine,  will  triumph  finally.  For  the 
whole  people  we  need  have  no  fear,  for  their  faith,  their  worksj  and 
their  integrity  are  founded  on  a  rock.   God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

There  has  never  been  a  time  in  my  life,  or  any  period  of  my  life, 
when  I  felt  better  spiritually  and  more  willing  to  do  my  duty  and  serve 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


119 


the  Lord  and  labor  for  his  cause  and  for  his  interests.  I  pray  God  that 
the  time  shall  never  come  in  my  life  when  I  fear  the  face  of  man.  The 
Lord  at  one  time,  in  the  early  history  of  the  Church,  in  a  revelation,  re- 
proved the  elders  because  they  would  not  open  their  mouths  and' use 
the  talents  which  the  Lord  had  given  unto  them,  and  I  am  praying,  as 
some  old  prophet  prayed,  "that  the  words  of  my  mouth  and  the  medita- 
tion of  my  thoughts  be  acceptable  in  thy  sight,  O  Jehovah,  my  Rock  and 
my  Redeemer." 

I  appreciate  the  fact  that  we  are  not  all  alike.  I  have  not'  been 
reared  in  the  same  pasture  as  some  men  have  in  this  day  and  genera- 
tion. Neither  do  I  speak  the  same  language,  but  I  try  to  make  myself 
understood. 

I  have  been  away  for  a  short  time  in  California.  I  have  not  as- 
sociated with  the  Gentiles,  they  did  not  seem  to  recognize  me.  I  cannot 
remember  now  of  any  of  them  speaking  to  me,  but  I  have  learned  a 
number  of  lessons.  During /my  loneliness  I  have  sought  after  God. 
I  love  God ;  I  love  him  for  his  kindness,  mercy,  patience,  and  for  his 
forgiveness.  I  sustain  this  work  as  best  I  know  how,  and  I  love 
the  brethren,  because  they  are  kind  to  me,  because  they  have  patience, 
and  because  they  are  forbearing. 

I  often  ask  the  question,  "Why  do  I  live?"  That  puts  me  in  mind 
of  a  story  by  Eugene  Field,  that  master  of  tender  verse.  He  tells  the 
story  of  a  young  man,  an  ambitious  poet,  who  sent  him  a  poem,  "Why 
do  I  live?"  And  he  immediately  answered,  "Because  you  sent  your 
poem  by  mail." 

During  the  time  of  my  poor  health  my  family  were  very  much 
concerned.  They  wanted  me  to  go  through  a  physical  examination. 
Nothing  in  the  world  frightens  me  like  a  scientific  examination.  I 
went  to  the  clinic  of  the  Stanford  University,  to  a  young  physician 
of  some  considerable  renown.  I  passed  through  an  examination — the 
X-ray,  and  all  that  stuff.  This  young  doctor  did  not  believe  in  God, 
man,  or  the  devil.  I  found  that  out.  I  told  him  I  was  a  "Mormon." 
He  said,  "You  will  never  get  any  better."  I  said,  "O,  yes,  I  will.  I 
have  a  greater  physician  than  you  are."  He  said,  "Who  is  he?"  And 
I  said,  "The  Lord  Jesus  Christ."  He  said,  "There's  nothing  in  it." 
He  was  drowned  last  year,  and  I  am  still  alive. 

Whenever  I  am  called  to  speak  in  the  tabernacle,  I  always  put  up 
the  danger  signal,  "Safety  first,"  because  I  am  always  in  danger. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  all  solemnity,  I  want  to  read  to  you  a 
little.  I  am  sure  I  will  be  safe  if  I  stick  to  the  text.  I  was.  acquainted 
with  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  only  through  the  testimony  of  my 
father.  No  man  in  this  Church  has  greater  faith,  greater  respect,  and 
did  greater  honor  to  the  Prophet  of  God  than  Heber  C.  Kimball.  His 
knees  never  trembled,  his  hand  never  shook,  he  never  failed  to  sustain 
the  Prophet  of  God.  I  have  known  every  prophet  of  God,  who  has 
been  the  president  of  this  Church  since  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I 
have  personally  talked  to  them ;  I  honored  them ;  they  were  always  kind 
to  me.    I  have  often  spoken  of  President  Woodruff.  Occasionally, 


when  I  was  presiding  in  the  South  and  returned  home  with  an  emigra- 
tion, he  said,  "Brother  Kimball,  sit  down  by  me.  Now,  Brother  Kim- 
ball, I  have  had  visions;  I  have  had  revelations;  I  have  seen  angels, 
but  the  greatest  of  all  is  that  still,  small  voice."  I  have  heard  that 
voice,  I  am  a  witness,  and  I  know  that  God  lives. 

I  desire  to  read  to  you  something,  not  new,  not  startling — the  idea 
that  we  are  the  chosen  people  of  God :  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet  of 
the  living  God  organized  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  the  members  became  the  chosen  people  of  God  to  perform  a 
great  and  lasting  service  for  mankind.  To  preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ ;  they  were  entrusted  with  a  mission  which  carries  with  it  suffer- 
ing, sacrifice,  sorrow,  hatred  and  persecution,  but  the  message  brings  to 
the  human  family,  if  they  will  have  faith  in  God,  repent  of  their  sins,  and 
be  baptized  by  immersion  and  have  hands  laid  upon  them  by  the  author- 
ized servants  of  God  for  the  reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost — there  will 
come  to  them  joy,  happiness,  virtue,  goodness  and  godliness.  To  accept 
this  mission  is  to  fill  a  high  place  in  the  world's  history.  To  be  a 
chosen  people  we  have  gone  forth  through  trials,  tribulations,  suffer- 
ing, sorrow,  hate  and  agony,  sacrifice  and  humiliation,  and  have  humbly 
and  faithfully  performed  the  heavy,  responsible  tasks  laid  upon  us  by 
Jesus  Christ  for  the  good  of  his  Father's  children.  Surely  we  ought  to 
be  blessed,  rewarded  and  entitled  to  recognition.  A  chosen  people 
should  not  indulge  in  the  thought  that  God's  whole  attention  is  ab- 
sorbed in  watching  over  and  caring  for  a  favored  few.  Let  the  righteous 
of  all,  nations  rejoice  in  God's  grace  and  exult  in  his  justice,  which 
means  that  the  righteous  of  all  other  nations  have  a  share  in  the  teach- 
ings of  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  know  we  have  had  a  great  deal  of  praise. 
I  have  been  deeply  interested  in  what  has  been  said — that  we  are  the 
best  people  on  earth.  But  a  short  time  ago,  a  brother  of  mine,  whom 
you  know,  a  humble  man  at  the  wicker  gate  of  the  temple  block,  went 
down  to  Los  Angeles  to  look  around  and  see  what  the  prospects  were, 
as  he  was  given  a  vacation.  He  is  a  gardener  and  a  great  lovelr  of 
flowers,  and  he  has  helped  beautify  a  great  many  places  here  in  the  city. 
He  was  working  for  a  great  florist  down  there  in  Los  Angeles,  and 
they  sent  him  to  a  multi-millionaire's  home,  and  he  worked  there  six 
weeks.  This  wealthy  man  came  out  and  talked  to  him.  Kimball  had  no 
fear  and  told  him  he  was  a  "Mormon."  The  man  looked  at  him  and 
said :  "Well,  I  am  awfully  glad  to  have  a  'Mormon'  work  on  my 
place."  Kimball  told  him  he  was  a  son  of  Heber  C.  Kimball.  The 
man  said,  "Do  you  know  that  those  old  men,  (that  is  the  way  he  phrased 
it)  Brigham  Young,  and  Heber  C.  Kimball  and  those  pioneers  were  the 
greatest  people  on  earth,  and  we  love  to  have"— he  was  speaking  gen- 
erally of  the  "Mormon"  and  Gentile — "these  Utah  people  come  down 
here,  because  they  are  honest,  because  we  can  trust  them."  And  he 
said,  "I  do  not  know  but  what  the  Gentiles  associating  with  the  'Mor- 
mons' has  helped  the  former  to  be  honest.    That  is  the  testimony  of  a 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


121 


multi-millionaire.  I  saw  mighty  few  "Mormons"  down  there— if  there 
were  very  many  they  did  not  make  themselves  known. 

I  know  I  have  spent  a  good  deal  of  time,  brethren  in  trying  to 
live.  About  Christmas,  1923,  I  thought  I  was  dying.  I  had  a  hem- 
orrhage of  the  lungs,  and  I  bled  quantities  of  blood.  I  thought  I  had 
hardly  a  pint  left  in  me.  I  sent  for  my  wife  and  handed  her  the  keys 
to  my  safety  box  and  said :  "Here  is  the  key  to  my  safety  box ;  there 
is  nothing  in  it.  God  bless  you."  I  then  sent  for  a  great  specialist 
to  examine  me  and  see  what  was  the  matter.  He  examined  me  and 
said,  "How  old  are  you  ?"  I  said,  "I  am  seventy  years  old."  "Well," 
he  said,  "I  thought  you  were  forty-seven."  I  replied,  "If  that  is  the 
way  you  look  at  it,  I  am  going  td  get  out  of  here,"  and  I  did.  I  lay  in 
bed  for  two  weeks,  and  I  thought  of  a  testimony,  and  I  could  not  get 
it  worded  right ;  I  could  not  link  it  together.  I  knew  how  I  felt,  so  one 
day  I  got  the  Sunday  edition  of  the  San  Francisco  Examiner,  a  wonder- 
ful paper,  and  there  I  iound  my  testimony,  worded  as  I  would  have 
liked  to  word  it,  as  I  did  not  know  what  was  going  to  happen  to  me, 
but  if  I  die  tomorrow,  which  I  do  not  intend  to  do,  this  is  my  testimony: 

"For  he  was  the  Son  of  God." 

The  divinity  of  God  was  in  Christ,  in  his  life  and  his  death,  and  the  power 
that  he  has  wielded  among-  men  for  their  good,  since  his  death,  all  prove  it. 

He  was  God's  Son,  and  he  recognized  all  men  as  his  brothers. 

"The  common  people  heard  him  gladly."  He  was  their  friend,  their  brother, 
he  walked  with  them,  talked,  lived  and  worked^  with  them,  aU  the  few  short 
years  of  his  life.    And  in  the  end  he  died  for  them. 

He  suffered  physically  and  mentally  as  they  suffered,  his  Gethsemane  was 
torture  of  the  spirit,  and  his  Golgotha  was  dreadful  torture  of  the  body. 

No  miracle  was  done  to  save  that  noble  spirit  from  the  horror  of  physical 
pain.  He  not  only  lived  and  died  but  suffered  fearful  agony  for  the  millions  of 
his  brothers  then  living,  and  untold  millions  of  those  brothers  that  were  to  come. 

He  knew  the  agony  that  was  preparing  for  him. 

"Father,  all  things  are  possible  unto  thee;  take  away  this  cup  from  me, 
nevertheless,  not  what  I  will,  but  what  thou  wilt." 

That  was  the  Son  of  God,  humbly  pleading  with  his  Father. 
"Even  so,  Father,  for  so  it  seemed  good  in  thy  sight." 
That  was  the  Son  of  God,  reconciled  to  his  Father's  will. 

******* 

Who  dares  deny  that  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  he  to  whom  all  men  and  all 
women  were  as  brothers  and  sisters,  who,  himself  sinless,  forgave  the  sinful 
woman  that  sinful  men  would  have  stoned  to  death? 

He  who  spoke  first  for  the  children,  for  the  poor,  for  the  sick,  whose  acts 
of  miraculous  power  were  all  for  the  hungry,  the  dying  or  the  dead.  He  was  the 
the  Son  of  God. 

******* 

One  "scientific  historian"  will  tell  you  that  in  all  the  world's  authentic 
histories  there  are  but  few  words  actually  written  concerning  Christ — in  real 
history.  That  may  be  true.  But  for  nearly  t\yo  thousand  years  his  name  has 
made  history.  It  has  been  written  on  every  page,  in  the  laws,  in  the  lives,  the 
hearts  and  histories  of  (men. 

Ten  thousand  steeples  pointing  to  the  sky,  hundreds  of  millions  whose  daily 
prayers  end,  "For  Christ's  sake.    Amen,"  prove  his  mission. 

Millions  of  the  poor  and  unfortunate,  all  over  the  earth,  who  turn  their  eyes 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  heaven,  trusting  and  finding  comfort  in  his  goodness  and  in  his  promises — 
all  these  are  more  important  than  any  books  of  ancient  history,  any  testimony  of 
changing  men. 

******* 

Christ  was  the  Son  of  God,  he  was  his  own  witness,  and  his  works  are  the 
proof  of  his  divinity.  His  spirit  covers  the  earth  and  gradually  redeems  it  from 
barbarism,  as  the  sunlight  covers  the  earth  and  gradually  dissipates  the  night, 
when  the  morning  sun  rises. 

The  learned  historian  assures  you  that,  admitting  the  historical  existence 
of  Christ,  it  is  certain  that  he  was  a  poor  youth  among  poor  people,  never  in  his 
life  able  to  read  or  write, 

Let  that  pass,  let  the  "higher  criticism"  jmake  the  most  of  it  He  could 
read  the  mind  of  God  and  interpret  it  to  wicked  men.  He  could  read  the  hearts 
of  children,  of  poor  women,  and  share  their  sufferings,  and  die  to  help  them. 

He  was  (indeed  the  Son  of  God. 

What  was  his  work  on  this  earth?  It  was  a  work  of  redemption,  of  light- 
giving,  of  comfort,  justice,  mercy,  and  above  all,  forgiveness. 

Dying  in  agony,  his  poor  body  hung  upon  the  cross,  nails  in  his  feet  and 
hands,  and  thorns  piercing  his  head,  he  turned  his  eyes  to  heaven  and,  said, 
"Father,  forgive  them ;  for  they  know  not  what  they  do." 

Were  not  these  the  words  of  God's  true  Son? 

Nineteen  hundred  and  twenty-three  years  ago  he  came  into  this  world, 
bursting  and  tearing  asunder  the  ancient  high  wall  of  hatred,  cruelty,  slavery, 
misery. 

His  glory  came  to  the  world  like  the  sun  shining  through  the  clouds  upon 
a  troubled  sea  at  the  end,  of  a  great  storm. 

His  name  is  the  hope  of  'millions.  His  teachings,  of  which  we  are  all  so 
unworthy,  possess  the  power  that  will  one  day  raise  us  above  our  present  low 
condition  of  selfishness,  meanness,  hatred  and  war. 

"Go  and  sell  that  thou  hast  and  give  to  the  poor  and  thou  shalt  have  treasure 
in  heaven;  and  come  and  follow  ./me." 

Those  were  the  words  of  God's  Son,  words  unheeded  yet  among  men  who 
still  take  from  the  poor  to  increase  their  own  store. 

But  the  words  were  spoken,  the  power  behind  them  can  never  die,  can  never 
be  supplanted. 

"Woman,  where  are  those  thine  accusers?  Hath  no  man  condemned  thee?" 
"No  man,  Lord." 

"Neither  do  I  condemn  thee ;  go  and  sin  no  more." 
Those  words  were  spoken  by  the  Son  of  God. 

"Suffer  little  children  to  come  unto  me,  and  forbid  them  not;  for  of  such 
is  the  kingdom  of  heaven." 

"Take  heed  that  ye  hurt  not  one  of  these  little  ones,  for  I  say  unto  you  that 
in  heaven  their  angels  do  always  behold  the  face  of  my  Father  which  is  in 
heaven." 

That  was  said  by  the  Son  of  God. 

******* 

Where  do  we  find  words  of  comfort  for  the  poor,  the  unfortunate,  the 
humble  among  God's  children? 

"Blessed  are  the  poor  in  spirit:  for  theirs  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

"Blessed  are  they  that  mourn :  for  they  shall  be  comforted. 

"Blessed  are  the  meek :  for  they  shall  inherit  the  earth. 

"Blessed  are  they  which  do  hunger  and  thirst  after  righteousness:  for  they 
shall  be  filled. 

"Blessed  are  the  merciful :  for  they  shall  obtain  mercy. 

"Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart:  for  they  shall  see  God. 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


123 


"Blessed  are  they  which  are  persecuted  for  righteousness'  sake:  for  theirs 
is  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

"Blessed  are  ye,  when  men  shall  revile  you,  and  persecute  you,  and  shall  say 
all  manner  of  evil  against  you  falsely,  for  my  sake." 

Christ  was  the  Son  of  God  and  his  teachings  will  rule  this  world.  "Rejoice 
and  be  exceeding  glad"  on  this  return  of  the  season  of  promise,  this  opening  of 
another  year." 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  God  blesa  his  Church  for- 
ever, and  his  servants,  and  may  God  inspire  them  to  be  prophets,  seers 
and  revelators  unto  the  children  of  men,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

A  baritone  solo,  "Come  unto  me,"  was  sung  by  J.  H.  Wood. 

ELDER  TAYLOR  NELSON 

President  of  the  Oneida  Stake  of  Zion 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  assure  you  that  I  feel  very  keenly  the 
responsibility  of  this  moment,  yet  I  am  happy  to  know  that  I  am 
counted  worthy  of  membership  in  this  great  Church,  and  that  through 
the  mercy  and  blessing  of  my  heavenly  Father  I  enjoy  the  testimony 
of  the  divinity  of  his  work. 

I  was  impressed  yesterday  with  the  singing  of  that  remarkable 
hymn  by  Parley  P.  Pratt: 

"Lo,  in  Cumorah's  lonely  hill 
A  sacred  record  lies  concealed." 

As  the  choir  rendered  the  final  hymn  the  spirit  of  it  bore  testimony 
to  me  again,  as  it  has  done  on  many  occasions,  and  I  now  appreciate 
the  divinitv  of  that  great  work  which  was  translated  by  the  gift  and 
power  of  God  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  from  the  ancient 
records  delivered  to  him  by  the  angel,  Moroni. 

I  have  never  seen  Moroni,  but  I  know  that  such  a  man  lived.  I 
have  never  seen  the  records  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was 
translated,  but  I  know  that  such  records  were  in  existence.  I  know 
today  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  divine.  I  have  put  to  test  the 
promise  made  by  the  writer  of  one  of  the  closing  chapters  of  that  great 
record,  wherein  he  said, 

"And  when  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye  would 
ask  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things  are  not  true; 
and  if  ye  shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  having  faith  in 
Christ,  lie  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  uno  you,  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost." 

I  have  put  this  to  the  test,  and  I  know,  through  the  whispering  of 
the  still  small  voice,  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  divine.  I  know  also, 
which  would  follow  naturally,  that  he  who  was  instrumental  in  the  hands 
of  our  heavenly  Father  in  translating  that  record  was  a  prophet  of  God. 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


This  is  my  testimony  to  you  here  today,  that  I  know  this  record  is 
divine,  and  I  know  this  work,  is  our  Father's  work,  established  upon 
the  earth  in  these  latter  times  for  the  salvation  and  exaltation  of  his 
children.  This  is  my  testimony,  which  I  bear  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

\ 

ELDER  JOHN  W.  HART 

President  of  the  Rigby  Stake  of  Zion 

I  desire  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers  this  morning,  that  I 
may  be  supported  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  the  few  moments  that 
I  stand  before  you  at  this  time. 

I  have  enjoyed  this  conference,  as  I  always  do  enjoy  them,  and 
have  rejoiced  in  the  opportunity  that  I  have  of  attending  them  and 
associating  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  those  whom  the 
Lord  has  chosen  to  direct  the  affairs  of  his  Church  in  the  earth  today. 
I  rejoice  that  we  have  men  who  are  not  afraid  to  speak  the  truth.  No 
honest  man  sitting  in  the  audience  and  looking  into  the  faces  of  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church  can  help  but  say,  that  they  are  sin- 
cere and  honest. 

I  was  forcibly  struck  this  morning  at  a  meeting  of  the  Board  of 
Education  by  a  remark  made  by  Elder  David  O.  McKay,  wherein  he 
drew  a  little  comparison  to  drive  home  his  point.  He  said,  "Latter-day 
Saints  should  not  be  ashamed  of  the  gospel,  nor  should  they  hesitate 
to  stand  up  and  defend  it  at  every  opportunity." 

Last  June  it  was  my  privilege  to  go  to  the  city  of  Cleveland,  I 
attended  'a  convention  there.  My  son,  who  was  presiding  over  the 
Northern  Indiana  conference,  came  down  and  visited  a  few  days  with 
me.  The  business  men  were  very  kind  to  us.  They  went  out  of  their  way 
to  do  everything  to  make  our  visit  pleasant  while  we  were  in  that  city. 
They  would  send  their  automobiles  around  to  our  hotel  and  place  them 
at  our  disposal,  in  order  that  we  might  enjoy  our  visit  with  them.  I 
told  some  of  them  that  I  did  not  want  them  to  do  that,  that  I  was  busy. 
I  thanked  them,  however.  But  I  said  I  would  like  to  go  out  to  the 
Kirtland  temple,  if  it  was  agreeable  to  them.  "Certainly,"  they  said, 
and  at  the  appointed  hour  they  came,  not  only  the  chauffeur  of  the  car 
but  three  of  the  business  men  of  Cleveland,  and  they  in  company  w'ith 
[the  Governor  of  our  own  state  and  one  or  two  others  journeyed  to 
Kirtland,  and  we  were  escorted  through  the  temple  by  an  elderly 
gentleman  there,  who  said  he  was  a  patriarch  in  the  church.  Of  course, 
the  main  thing  that  was  talked  about  by  him  was  in  the  nature  of  a 
criticism  of  the  "Brighamites"  and  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  general. 
We  listened  to  him,  we  were  his  guests,  and  when  we  left  the  building 
I  turned  to  him  and  said :  "My  friend,  I  want  you  to  know  that  I  pre- 
side in  one  of  the  stakes  of  Zion.  Now,"  I  said  "  I  have  listened  to 
you.  Why  didn't  you  tell  us  what  happened  in  this  building?  Why  didn't 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  HART 


125 


you  tell  us  that  the  Savior  appeared  here  to  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Oowdery,  and  that  Elijah  appeared  and  conferred  the  keys  of  the 
turning  of  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children,  etc.;  and  that 
Moses  appeared  and  conferred  the  keys  of  the  gathering;  and  Elias 
appeared  also?  Why  didn't  you  tell  something  about  that?"  "O,  well," 
he  said,  "we  only  do  that  when  people  ask  us."  I  said  "Well,  I  am 
going  to  tell  these  gentlemen." 

We  left  the  building  and  went  to  the  car.  "Now,  my  friends,"  I 
said,  "I  do  not  want  you  to  get  our  Church  and  this  church  confused. 
There  is  a  vast  difference  between  us,"  and  I  proceeded  to  tell  them 
what  happened  in  that  temple,  and  why  it  was  of  so  much  importance 
to  us  in  the  history  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  And  before  I  got  through 
one  of  the  gentlemen  from  Cleveland  said,  "Why,  Mr.  Hart,  you  know 
more  about  it  than  this  man  does."  "I  most  certainly  do,  because  he 
doesn't  know  anything  about  it." 

We  journeyed  to  the  city  and  about  nine  o'clock  my  son  and  I 
retired  to  our  room,  and  were  going  to  retire  for  the  night.  I  had  taken 
my  coat  and  collar  off,  when  a  knock  came  at  the  door.  I  answered 
it,  and  there  were  the  three  gentlemen  who  went  with  us  to  Kirtland. 
They  came  to  my  room.  They  wanted  jto  excuse  themselves  and 
tried  to  leave,  but  I  insisted  that  they  stay,  and  assured  them  the  only 
reason  that  I  was  going  to  retire  was  that  I  didn't  have  any  other  place 
to  go  that  night.  They  came  in,  and,  of  course,  I  knew  what  they 
wanted.  I  had  given  them  a  pretty  |good  talk  at  noon  that  day,  and 
they  came  there  and  inquired  most  earnestly  regarding  other  things 
pertaining  to  our  Church,  and  I  had  the  privilege  of  relating  to  them 
some  of  the  fundamental  principles  of  the  Church  to  which  we  belong. 
I  entertained  them  there  until  12:30,  and  during  our  talk  I  explained 
to  them  briefly  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  Church,  etc.,  and  during'  my  talk  along  that  line,  at  intervals 
one  of  the  gentlemen  raised  his  hand  above  his  head  and  said,  "Mr. 
Hart,  that  is  the  most  wonderful  story  I  ever  heard."  I  said,  "It  is, 
it  is  one  of  the  (greatest  miracles  of  modern  times."  I  said,  "If  we 
should  strip  the  divine  claim  from  that  book,  we  coula  not  publish  it 
half  fast  enough  for  the  world  to  read  it."  "But,"  I  said,  "it  is 
divine,  it  has  stood  the  test  of  a  hundred  years,  and  we  want  the  people 
to  read  it,  we  are  not  hiding  it  from  them." 

When  the  time  to  separate  came,  I  gave  them  a  Book  of  Mormon, 
with  a  distinct  understanding  and  a  promise  from  them  that  they  would 
read  it.  Since  returning  home  I  have  had  several  letters  from  them 
to  the  effect  that  the  first  one  had  read  the  book  and  passed  it  on  to 
the  next  one,  and  that  they  were  enjoying  it. 

Now,  I  simply  state  this,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  further 
testify  to  the  fact  that  was  stated  this  morning  by  Elder  McKay,  that 
we  should  not  try  to  hide  our  light  beneath  a  bushel,  because  the  world 
is  hungering  and  thirsting  after  the  gospel  of  Christ,  and  I  thank  God 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  we  have  leaders  here  who  are  able,  and  not  afraid,  to  present  it  to 
them  upon  every  opportunity.  It  did  my  heart  good  when  I  heard 
President  Grant  state  in  his  opening  address  where  he  had  been,  how  he 
had  traveled  in  the  world,  and  visited,  and  embraced  every  opportunity 
that  was  presented  to  him  to  preach  the  gospel  to  the  children  of  men 
wherever  he  went,  and  I  know  that  he  rejoiced  in  it,  and  that  the  Lord 
will  bless  him  and  every  other  man  who  will  take  this  opportunity. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  do  not  fear  for  these  men.  God 
will  take  care  of  them,  but  I  am  fearful  for  myself,  and  I  hope  and 
pray,  and  do  pray  continually,  that  the  Lord  will  keep  me  in  the  path 
of  rectitude,  that  I  may  be  able  to  endure  to  the  end.  And  may  we 
all  do  this,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  LARS  OVESON 

President  of  the  Emery  Stake  of  Zion 

I  have  rejoiced  exceedingly,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  during 
this  great  conference,  and  I  feel  it  a  privilege  to  have  the  opportunity 
to  come  here  upon  this  great  occasion  to  listen  to  the  inspired  instruc- 
tions that  are  given  from  the-  servants  of  the  Lord. 

When  we  contemplate  the  wonderful  things  that  have  been  accom- 
plished in  the  short  period  of  time  since  the  organization  of  the  Church, 
ninety-five  years  ago,  we  cannot  help  but  realize,  it  seems  to  me,  that 
some  divine  power  has  operated  and  guided  the  Church  from  its  earliest 
organization  until  the  present  time. 

In  listening  to  the  reports  of  the  advancement  and  progress  that 
have  been  made,  as  in  the  report  that  was  made  by  President  Grant  at 
the  opening  session  of  this  conference,  and  the  reports  that  were  made 
last  evening  in  the  Sunday  School  conference,  and  the  reports  that 
have  been  made  of  the  Mutual  Improvement  organization,  and  in  short 
in  every  organization  of  the  Church,  it  has  seemed  a  wonder.  It  is 
a  wonder  to  the  world,  and  they  cannot  understand  how  it  is  that  a 
people  who  have  met  opposition  all  the  way  along  the  line  have  been  able 
to  advance  and  progress  as  they  have  done.  To  us,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  it  is  clear,  because  we  are  engaged  in  the  work  of  the  Lord, 
and  the  Lord  has  guided  and  directed  the  movements  of  this  Church 
and  has  inspired  its  leaders  from  the  earliest  organization  to  the  present 
time.  So  we  are  not  depending  upon  the  wisdom  of  men;  we  are  not 
depending  upon  the  strength  of  men,  but  we  realize  and  know  that  we 
are  in  the  service  of  the  Lord,  and  that  we  are  working  to  accomplish 
the  great  purposes  that  he  has  established  in  this  day  and  age  of  the 
world. 

I  have  been  associated  with  the  Church  all  my  life,  so  to  speak. 
I  came  to  this  country  in  my  early  boyhood.  Though  I  was  born  in 
a  foreign  land,  I  have  been  associated  with  the  people  in  these  valleys 
of  the  mountains  for  more  than  sixty  years,  and  I  have  had  a  little 


ELDER  LARS  OVESON 


127 


experience  and  observed  a  few  things  that  have  transpired  during 
that  length  of  time,  and  I  want  to  say,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
every  word  that  has  been  spoken  in  this  conference  has  found  an  echo 
in  my  soul,  which  makes  me  think  that  I  am  somewhere  near  right. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  of  the  truthfulness  of  what  is  called 
"Mormonism."  I  know  that  it  is  the  work  of  the  Lord;  I  know  that 
it  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  if  we  will  live  up  to  our 
privileges;  if  we  will  live  up  to  our  duties,  brethren  and  sisters,  there 
is  no  power  can  stay  our  progress,  our  advancement  and  our  exalta- 
ton  finally  in  the  kingdom  of  our  God.  I  rejoice  to  be  here  to  par- 
take of  the  spirit  which  comes  to  us  through  these  wonderful  gatherings. 
I  rejoice  to  bear  my  testimony  to  the  truthfulness  of  this  work  of  the 
Lord  to  the  world,  for  I  know  it  is  true;  I  know  it  is  for  the  uplift  and 
the  advancement  of  the  children  of  God,  and  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will 
help  every  one  of  us  that  we  may  remain  faithful  and  true,  that  we 
may  be  found  valiant  workers  in  the  cause  of  righteousness  and  help  to 
build  up  his  kingdom  upon  the  earth,  which  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  W.  LESUEUR 

President  of  the  Maricopa  Stake  of  Zion 

"If  I  were  a  voice,  a  persuasive  voice, 
That  could  travel  the  whole  world  through, 

I'd  fly  on  the  beams  of  the  morning  light,  . 

And  speak  to  men  with  a  gentle  might, 

And  tell  them  to  be  true. 

"I'd  fly,  I!d  fly,  o'er  land  and  sea, 
Wherever  a  human  heart  might  be, 
Telling  a  tale,  or  singing  a  song, 
In  praise  of  the  right,  in  blame  of  the  wrong." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  that  such  is  the  spirit  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.   Our  mission  here  upon  this  earth  is  to  preach  righteousness. 

Coming  as  I  do  from  the  Maricopa  stake  of  Zion,  we  may  have 
conditions  there  that  are  different  from  some  of  other  stakes.  We  have 
a  ward  there  made  up  of  Indians,  or  Lamanites,  and  I  want  to  say 
something  in  regard  to  that  people.  We  find  that  they  are  the  most 
faithful  Saints  that  we  have.  For  the  last  ten  or  twelve  years  they  have 
been  setting  an  example  to  us  in  many  things.  A  report  that  we  had 
some  time  ago  from  that  ward  shows  that  one  hundred  per  cent  of  the 
members  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  that  for  the  last  ten  or 
twelve  years  they  have  done  one  hundred  per  cent  ward  teaching ;  that 
they  set  an  example  in  attendance  at  sacramental  meetings,  some  coming 
a  great  distance,  walking  several  miles  to  attend  their  meetings. 

A  little  over  a  year  ago  we  held  a  conference  with  them.  These 
good  people  are  not  hypocritical.  When  we  asked  them  to  sustain 
the  bishopric,  four  of  the  Lamanite  women  voted  against  the  bishopric. 
But  when  we  asked  them  why,  after  the  meeting,  they  said  they  would 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


like  to  meet  with  the  stake  presidency  and  tell  them  why.  So  we  made 
an  appointment  with  them.  They  came  and  they  said,  it  is  because  the 
bishopric  did  not  see  that  the  ward  teachers  did  their  full  duty.  The 
ward  teachers  went  to  their  homes,  and  as  they  saw  them  out  in  their 
fields,  they  would  say,  "How  are  you  today?"  and  if  we  said  we  were 
all  right,  they  would  say,  "Well,  we  must  be  going  on,  so  we  can  make 
one  hundred  per  cent." 

Then  we  asked  them  what  they  should  do? 

"Why,"  they  said,  "they  should  ask  us  to  come  into  the  house, 
they  should  sing  with  us,  and  pray  with  us,  and  then  a  subject  should 
be  assigned  to  them,  and  they  should  treat  that  subject  and  tell  us 
something  about  the  gospel,  and  about  Jesus." 

We  asked  them  if  they  would  not  give  the  bishopric  another  chance 
to  make  good? 

"Why,"  they  said,  "an  Indian  does  not  forget,  and  it  is  hard  for 
an  Indian  to  forgive." 

I  showed  them  the  necessity  of  forgiving  the  bishopric  and  giving 
them  another  chance.  They  finally  said  they  would,  aind  so  the 
bishopric,  who  were  there  and  heard  what  they  had  to  say,  promised 
this  people  that  they  would  do  good  work  among  them,  and  that  the 
ward  teachers  would  do  their  full  duty.  Later  on,  these  sisters  came 
and  reported  to  us  that  the  bishopric  was  doing  an  excellent  work.  The 
result  of  that  is  that  the  people  have  been  visited  in  the  Indian  ward 
every  month  faithfully,  not  only  by  the  teachers  but  by  the  bishopric. 
Last  year  we  had  thirteen  converts  made  in  that  ward.  We  feel  that 
it  has  resulted  from  the  excellent  work  done  by  these  good  sisters 
who  made  their  report. 

We  are  very  much  favored  in  the  Maricopa  stake  of  Zion  in 
having  the  privilege  of  having  a  temple  built  in  our  midst.  The  work 
is  progressing  nicely.  We  are  going  to  have  a  wonderful  temple  there 
in  that  pleasant  climate,  an  excellent  place  for  many  of  the  people  in 
this  northern  country  to  go  in  the  winter  time  and  do  their  temple 
work.  This  is  going  to  be  a  very  beautiful  building,  it  will  probably 
be  a  year  before  it  is  entirely  completed,  but  it  will  be  something  that 
the  entire  Church  can  be  proud  of.  A  great  deal  of  good  is  being 
done  there  at  the  present  time.  People  are  coming  from  all  parts  of 
the  world  to  visit  that  temple,  as  it  is  near  the  main  highway  from 
ocean  to  ocean,  and  we  have  a  great  many  visitors.  A  great  many 
tourists  come  to  that  land  in  the  winter  time,  and  they  all  desire  to 
visit  the  temple  and  see  the  wonderful  work  done  there.  It  is  a  great 
credit  to  our  Church. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  a  wonderful  work  and  the  Lord 
is  at  the  helm,  and  he  is  blessing  us  greatly.  We  ought  to  be  the 
best  people  in  all  the  world.  I  want  to  bear  testimony  to  you  that  I 
know  that  the  gospel  is  true,  and  that  this  is  the  Lord's  work,  and  I 
pray  God  to  bless  each  and  every  one  of  us,  that  we  may  be  faithful 
and  true  to  it,  which  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JAMES  W.  LESUEUR 


129 


Announcement  was  made  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant  that  a' 
military  honor  parade  and  program  on  the  occasion  of  the  laying  of 
the  corner  stone  of  the  "Mormon  Battalion"  monument  would  be 
given  Tuesday,  April  7,  1925,  at  the  Capitol  building,  Salt  Lake  City. 
The  public  are  invited.   The  program  follows  : 

MILITARY  HONOR  PARADE  AND  PROGRAM 

On  the  occasion  of  laying  the  cornerstone  of  the  Mormon  Battalion  Monu- 
ment, Tuesday,  April  7,  1925,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

Order  of  Parade,  1 :0O  p.  m. 

Marshall  and  Aids,  United  States  Army  Military  Band,  Detachment  United 
States  Army  Escort,  The  Monument  Commission,  Governor,  Staff  and  Utah 
State  Officials,  Salt  Lake  City  Officials,  Church  Officials,  Daughters  of  the 
Battalion,  Utah  State  National  Guard,  Salt  Lake  City  High  School  Band  and 
Cadets.  , 

Program,  2:00  p.  m. 
President  B.  H.  Roberts,  Master  of  Ceremonies. 

Music,  Fort  Douglas  Band;  Invocation,  Rev.  John  E.  Carver;  Introductory — 
"The  Monument,"  B,  H.  Roberts;  Inception  of  Monument  Movement,  Mrs.  May 
Belle  T  .Davis ;  Memorial  Receptacle,  Mayor  C.  Clarence  Neslen ;  Music,  Male 
Quartet;  James  Astin,  Harold  Lloyd,  Joseph  Kjar,  Alvin  Keddington;  Appre- 
ciation of  Col.  Phillip  St.  George  Cooke,  Major  Hamilton  Garduer;  Presentation 
of  Trowel  by  Daughters  of  Mormon  Battalion,  Mrs.  Mary  J.  Clawson. 

Laying  of  Cornerstone,  Governor  George  H.  Dern. 

Dedicatory  Prayer,  President  Heber  J.  Grant. 

Music. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Do  what  is  right,"  and  the 
benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  James  A.  Christensen,  president 
of  the  North  Sevier  stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


CLOSING  SESSION 

The  closing  session  of  the  conference  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle 
on  Monday  afternoon,  April  6,  at  2  o'clock. 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day 
of  salvation.""" 

Elder  James  P.  Jensen,  president  of  the  San  Luis  stake  of  Zion, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

A  sacred  baritone  solo,  "Come,  Holy  Spirit,"  was  sung  by  Walter 
A.  Wallace. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

I  desire  to  read  a  few  words  from  the  133d  section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  the  same  being  a  revelation  given  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  the  month  of  November,  1831 : 

PREACHING  THE  GOSPEL  AND  THE  GATHERING 

"Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my  church,  saith  the  Lord  your  God,  and  hear 
the  word  of  the  Lord  concerning  you — 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"The  Lord  who  shall  suddenly  come  to  his  temple ;  the  Lord  who  shall 
cqme  down  upon  the  world  with  a  curse  to  judgement;  yea,  upon  all  the  nations 
that  forget  God,  and  upon  all  the  ungodly  among  you. 

"For  he  shall  make  bare  his  holy  arm  in  the  eyes  of  all  the  nations,  and  all 
the  ends  of  the  earth  shall  see  the  salvation  of  their  God. 

"Wherefore,  prepare  ye,  prepare  ye,  O  my  people;  sanctify  yourselves; 
gather  ye  together,  O  ye  people  of  my  church,  upon  the  land  of  Zion,  all  you 
that  have  not  been  commanded  to  tarry. 

"Go  ye  out  from  Babylon.   Be  ye  clean  that  bear  the  vessels  of  the  Lord. 

"Call  your  solemn  assemblies,  and  speak  often  one  to  another,  and  let  every 
man  call  upon  the  name  of  the  Lord. 

"Yea,  verily  I  say  unto  you  again,  the  time  has  come  when  the  voice  of 
the  Lord  is  unto  you :  Go  ye  out  of  Babylon ;  gather  ye  out  from  among  the 
nations,  frcjtn  the  four  winds,  from  one  end  of  heaven  to  the  other. 

"Send  forth  the  elders  of  my  church  unto  the  nations  which  are  afar  off ; 
unto  the  islands  of  the  sea ;  send  forth  unto  foreign  lands ;  call  upon  all  nations ; 
first  upon  the  Gentiles,  and  then  upon  the  Jews. 

"And  behold,  and  lo,  this  shall  be  their  cry,  and  the  voice  of  the  Lord  unto 
all  people:  "Go  ye  forth  unto  the  land  of  Zion,  that  the  borders  of  my  people 
may  be  enlarged,,  and  that  her  stakes  may  be  strengthened,  and  that  Zion  may  go 
forth  unto  the  regions  round  about. 

"Yea,  let  the  cry  go  forth  among  all  people :  Awake  and  arise  and  go  forth 
to  meet  the  Bridegroom ;  behold  and  lo,  the  Bridegroom  cometh ;  go  ye  out  to 
meet  him.    Prepare  yourselves  for  the  great  day  of  the  Lord. 

"Watch,  therefore,  for  ye  know  neither  the  day  nor  the  hour. 

"Let  them,  therefore,  who  are  among  the  Gentiles  flee  unto  Zion. 

"And  let  them  who  be  of  Judah  flee  unto  Jerusalem,  unto  the  mountains 
of  the  Lord's  house. 

"Go  ye  out  from  among  the  nations,  even  from  Babylon,  from  the  midst  of 
wickedness,  which  is  spiritual  Babylon. 

"But  verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord,  let  not  your  flight  be  in  haste,  but  let 
all  things  be  prepared  before  you;  and  he  that  goeth,  let  him  not  look  back  lest 
sudden  destruction  shall  come  upon  him. 

"Hearken  and  hear,  O  ye  inhabitants  of  the  earth.  Listen,  ye  elders  of  my 
church  together,  and  hear  the  voice  of  the  Lord ;  for  he  calleth  upon  all  men, 
and  he  commandeth  all  men  everywhere  to  repent. 

"For  behold,  the  Lord  God  hath  sent  forth  the  angel  crying  through  the 
midst  of  heaven,  saying :  Prepare  ye  the  way  of  the  Lord,  and  make  his  paths 
straight,  for  the  hour  of  his  coming  is  nigh — " 

The  balance  of  the  revelation  continues  in  a  declaration  of  the 
Lord  as  to  his  purposes  concerning  the  gathering  of  the  Jews  to 
Jerusalem,  and  the  mighty  power  which  he  shall  manifest  in  their 
delivery;  also  concerning  the  restoration  of  the  lost  tribes  of  Israel, 
and  their  return.  Continuing  I  shall  read  from  the  same  section, 
beginning  with  verse  36 : 

"And  now,  verily  saith  the  Lord,,  that  these  things  might  be  known  among 
you,  O  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  I  have  sent  forth  mine  angel  flying  through 
the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting  gospel,  who  hath  appeared  unto 
some  and  hath  committed  it  unto  man,  who  shall  appear  unto  many  that  dwell 
on  the  earth. 

"And  this  gospel  shall  be  preached  unto  every  nation  and  kindred,  and 
tongue,  and  people. 

"And  the  servants  of  God  shall  go  forth,  saying  with  a  loud  voice:  Fear 
God  and  give  glory  to  him,  for  the  hour  of  his  judgment  is  come;" 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


131 


In  the  same  connection  I  desire  to  read  a  few  verses  from  the 
88th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  commencing  with  the 
88th  verse : 

^And  after  your  testimony  cometh  wrath  and  indignation  upon  the  people. 

"For  after  your  testimony  cometh  the  testimony  of  earthquakes,  that  shall 
cause  groanings  in  the  midst  of  her,  and  men  shall  fall  upon  the  ground  and 
shall  not  be  able  to  stand. 

"And  also  cometh  the  testimony  of  the  voice  of  thunderings,  and  the  voice 
of  lightnings,  and  the  voice  of  tempests,  and  the  voice  of  the  waves  of  the  sea 
heaving  themselves  beyond  their  bounds. 

"And  all  things  shall  be  in  commotion;  and  surely,  men's  hearts  shall  fail 
them;  for  fear  shall  come  upon  all  people." 

Returning  to  the  133rd  Section  again  I  wish  to  read  in  conclu- 
sion of  these  quotations  the  60th  verse : 

"And  for  this  cause  these  commandments  were  given;  they  were  com- 
manded to  be  kept  from  the  world  in  the  day  that  they  were  given,  but  now 
are  to  go  forth  unto  all  flesh." 

RESPONSIBILITY  OF  THE  CHURCH  IN  MISSIONARY  WORK 

The  remarks  of  our  President  in  the  opening  session  of  this 
conference,  and  the  interesting  statistics  which  he  read  us  con- 
cerning not  only  the  affairs  of  the  Church  at  home,  but  those  in 
the  mission  field,  awakened  in  my  heart  some  thoughts  and  feelings 
concerning  our  missionary  work  and  its  responsibilities  that  I 
should  like,  if  the  Lord  will  help  me,  to  express  to  you.  I  think 
that  there  is  probably  no  responsibility  greater  than  that  which 
the  Lord  has  placed  upon  this  Church,  as  indicated  in  the  words  I 
have  just  quoted,  to  carry  this  gospel  to  all  flesh.  I  believe  that  the 
record  of  the  Church  reveals  the  fact  that  we  have  looked  upon  it 
as  one  of  our  chief  responsibilities.  When  the  President  was  quot- 
ing the  statistics  and  the  amounts  expended  in  the  stakes  of  Zion 
and  in  the  mission  fields,  I  was  impressed  when  he  said  that  if  we 
should  compute  the  time  of  the  missionaries  and  the  means  required 
to  maintain  them  in  the  field  that  that  item  alone  last  year  would 
have  amounted  to  approximately  two  millions  of  dollars.  And  then 
in  addition  to  that,  the  further  statement  of  the  amount  which  the 
Church  itself  has  expended  in  the  mission  fields  approaching  an- 
other million  dollars.  No  other  single  item  in  which  the  Church  is 
actively  engaged,  therefore,  has  received  such  contributions  of  ser- 
vice and  means. 

THE  SPLENDID  RECORD  OF  THE  PAST 

We  are  certainly  giving  the  greatest  of  our  contributions  to  dis- 
charge this  great,  sacred  and  holy  obligation  which  the  Lord  has 
placed  upon  this  Church.  I  think  as  Ave  look  over  the  past  we  have 
some  reason  to  feel  grateful  that  the  generations  that  have  preceded 
us,  with  us  have  looked  upon  this  responsibility  as  of  deep  import- 
ance, and  there  has  not  been  wanting  men,  nor  women,  when  they 


132  GENERAL  CONEERENCE 

I 

have  been  called,  to  go  into  the  world  to  discharge  this  great  ob- 
ligation. We  learned  some  few  conferences  ago  from  President  A. 
W.  Ivins  that  we  had  sent  into  the  world  approximately  sixty  thou- 
sand missionaries  since  this  Church  was  organized.  Figuring  the 
expense  of  sending  them  and  maintaining  them  there,  with  a  very 
reasonable  allowance  for  the  value  of  their  services,  I  would  con- 
clude that  in  means  and  in  service  rendered,  this  Church  has  con- 
tributed upwards  of  one  hundred  millions  of  dollars  in  discharg- 
ing this  great  obligation  to  the  world.  It  has  not  only  cost  the 
services  of  men,  it  has  cost  sacrifice  on  the  part  of  many  thousands 
of  wives  and  mothers  and  fathers  at  home  who  have  borne  the  extra 
burden.  Many  have  suffered  themselves  to  be  denied  the  neces- 
sities of  life,  in  order  that  they  might  maintain  their  sons  in  the 
mission  field.  And  not  only  that,  many  of  these  precious  sons 
have  given  their  very  lives  to  the  great  cause.  We  have  held  back 
nothing  from  this  great  call  that  the  Lord  has  made  upon  us  to 
carry  these  glad  tidings  to  all  men. 

THE  LABORS  AHEAD  FOR  THE  FUTURE 

Splendid  as  our  record  has  been  in  the  past,  I  am  concerned 
now  about  the  future.  I  read  in  these  words  that  this  message 
must  go  to  all  flesh.  We  have  not  yet,  with  all  our  zeal,  with  all 
our  earnestness  and  desire  to  do  this  work,  reached  all  flesh.  I  am 
looking  forward  to  the  fulfilment  of  that  commandment  of  the 
Lord  on  the  part  of  the  willing,  faithful  seventies  and  elders  of 
this  Church. 

While  Russia,  as  referred  to  in  this  conference,  has  not  yet  re- 
ceived this  message,  and  Russia  is  passing  through  the  crucible,  she 
will  come  out  when  she  has  paid  the  price,  and  find  liberty  and 
freedom.  That  is  my  faith,  and  when  that  day  comes  I  hope  and 
expect  that  we  shall  have  sufficient  men  and  women,  if  need  be, 
to  go  into  that  great  nation,  that  they,  too,  may  hear  the  glad 
news,  and  I  believe  that  countless  thousands  shall  receive  it. 

I  am  looking  also  to  the  great  South  American  republics,  where 
we  have  no  servants  of  the  Lord  today.  Only  one  brief  visit  has 
been  made  there  in  the  history  of  the  Church.  Here,  too,  there 
are  millions  waiting  the  coming  of  this  message.  When  the  Lord 
is  ready  he  shall  inspire  his  servants  to  call  for  men  to  go  and  open 
up  these  fields.  I  am  not  worrying  about  the  time  when  the  call 
shall  come.  My  only  fear  is  that  it  shall  come  all  too  soon  for 
many  of  us,  who  will  not  be  prepared  to  respond. 

The  great  nation  of  China,  is  a  heathen  nation.  I  do  not 
expect  to  see  great  numbers  of  people  join  the  Church  in  such 
lands,  but  the  obligation  is  upon  us  to  carry  the  news  to  them,  for  it 
must  go  to  all  flesh,  whether  they  receive  it  or  not ;  and  whosoever 
shall  receive  it  shall  find  the  full  salvation  of  God,  through  their 
obedience  and  repentance,  but  they  must  hear  the  glad  news ;  other- 
wise the  Lord  has  not  fulfilled  his  promise  to  the  peoples  of  the 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


133 


world,  and  this  obligation  I  say  is  yet  resting  upon  the  elders  of 
this  Church. 

MATURE  MEN  AS  WELL  AS  THE  YOUNG  MUST  PREPARE! 

I  would  not  deny  the  splendid  young  men  who  are  going  into 
the  missionary  field  today  the  right  and  the  privilege  to  preach  the 
gospel.  They  are  principally  boys  in  their  teens,  however.  It  is 
the  greatest  blessing  that  could  come  to  them.  I  hope,  however, 
that  fathers  and  mothers  shall  not  be  looking  upon  the  missionary 
field  as  a  mere  training-  school  for  their  boys.  Natural])1  this  is  a 
by-product  that  comes  from  sending  a  boy  upon  a  mission.  He 
finds  himself  and  finds  the  Lord.  It  is  a  miracle.  The  greatest 
miracle  of  "Mormonism"  today  is  the  miracle  of  the  "Mormon" 
missionary.  The  marvelous  transforation  through  which  he  goes 
under  the  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  as  he  goes  forward  to 
preach  this  gospel.  But  what  I  am  anxious  for  is  that  we  shall 
have  mingled  and  associated  with  these  striplings,  these  youths, 
more  of  the  mature  men  of  the  Church,  you  men  who  have  hereto- 
fore preached  the  gospel.  I  know  from  my  experience  in  the  mis- 
sionary field  that  your  help  is  needed  and  is  of  great  value  to  the 
younger  missionaries.  Your  wisdom,  your  courage,  your  judgment 
•will  greatly  increase  the  usefulness  and  efficiency  of  these  3'ounger 
men,  and  I  would  like  to  appeal  to  you,  men,  who  have  been  upon 
missions  years  ago,  and  are  still  in  good  health,  to  begin  to  plan 
in  the  budget  of  the  next  few  years  to  set  aside  a  portion  of  time 
and  some  means  which  may  be  accumulated  to  provide  you  another 
opportunity  to  go  into  the  world  and  help  to  discharge  this  great 
obligation. 

THE  TIMES  OF  THE  GENTILES 

President  Ivins,  yesterday  morning,  read  to  us  some  scriptures 
concerning  the  times  of  the  Gentiles,  that  in  the  day  when  this 
gospel  shall  burst  forth,  and  its  light  should  be  seen,  it  should  be 
the  beginning  of  the  times  of  the  Gentiles,  and  that  that  genera- 
tion that  saw  the  light  come  forth  should  not  pass  away  until  the 
times  of  the  Gentiles  should  be  fulfilled.  I  do  not  know  how  many 
years  that  means,  but  I  do  know  that  there  is  a  limited  time, 
wherein  we  are  given  the  opportunity  to  preach  this  gospel  to  the 
Gentile  nations,  and  then  cometh  the  day  of  the  House  of  Israel. 
And  it  seems  as  if  the  day  of  the  House  of  Israel — and  President 
Ivins  called  our  attention  to  it  yesterday — is  already  dawning. 
Therefore  we  must  be  awake  and  about  our  Father's  business,  that 
we  may  stand  acquitted  before  God  and  before  men.  I  recognize 
that  it  is  a  day  of  settlement,  a  day  of  reckoning.  The  cry  is,  "This 
is  the  hour  of  God's  judgment."  I  know  the  Lord  does  not  wish 
to  send  judgments  upon  an  unwarned  and  unprepared  people.  As 
it  was  in  the  days  of  Noah,  so  shall  it  be  in  the  days  of  the  coming 
of  the  Son  of  man.    This  is  a  day  of  warning.    The  ark  was  the 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


means  of  salvation  in  those  former  days,  it  shall  be  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  these  latter-days.  God  has  never  let  his  peo- 
ple go  into  wickedness,  sin  and  transgression,  and  into  peril,  with- 
out warning  them,  and  in  connection  with  the  warning  there  has 
always  been  the  means  of  escape. 

THE  GREAT  OBJECT  IN  SENDING  MISSIONARIES 

There  are  two  great  objects  we  have  in  mind  in  sending  these 
missionaries  out  into  the  world.  There  has  been  scattered,  as 
President  Ivins  indicated  in  the  scriptures  and  the  prophecies 
which  he  read,  among  the  Gentile  nations  the  blood  of  Israel,  and 
they  are  to  be  gathered,  one  of  a  city  and  two  of  a  family,  a  few 
here  and  a  few  there.  They  who  receive  and  accept  the  gospel  are 
the  ones  in  that  household  who  have  the  blood  of  Israel  in  the'ir 
veins.  By  some  process  which  I  may  not  understand,  nevertheless, 
it  is  true,  we  are  to  find  them.  There  are  many  of  them  yet  that 
we  have  not  found,  our  own  kindred,  our  own  brothers  and  sisters 
in  our  own  blessed  household.  We  are  anxious  to  find  them.  We 
will  discover  them  in  the  isles  of  the  sea,  in  the  Old  World  and 
in  the  New  World.  Many  of  them  are  here,  for  the  Lord  is  calling 
many  of  these  sons  of  Israel  to  the  American  continent,  though 
they  know  not  why ;  but  he  is  bringing  them  to  the  rising  of  the 
brightness  of  Zion's  glory,  where  they  have  an  opportunity  to  find 
the  truth,  such  as  they  do  not  have  elsewhere.  I  was  impressed 
with  that  when  I  listened  to  the  statistics  the  President  read,  that 
one-half  of  the  missionaries  of  this  Church  are  in  America,  where 
but  one-seventh  of  the  people  of  the  world  are,  and  yet  here  is 
where  the  greater  number  of  our  baptisms  are  being  performed. 
The  Lord  is  bringing  from  the  islands  of  the  sea  and  from  the 
continents  of  the  Old  World  men  and  women  to  this  country  where 
they  may  have  better  opportunity  to  hear  the  truth  and  embrace 
it,  and  then  they  will  be  where  the  Lord  wants  them.  Neverthe- 
less we  are  to  search  diligently  and  then  we  are  to  warn  them  that 
all  men  may  be  left  without  an  excuse,  and  that  we  may  be  under 
no  obligation.  It  isn't  the  obligation  entirely  of  the  man  who  hap- 
pens to  have  a  son,  however,  it  is  an  obligation  resting  upon  every 
man  and  every  woman  in  this  Church,  and  we  apportion  the  mis- 
sionary calls  out  among  the  wards  and  stakes  of  Zion,  so  many 
per  thousand. 

DUTY  OF  QUORUMS  AND  WARDS  IN  MISSION  WORK 

It  is  the  duty  and  obligation,  therefore,  of  each  ward  not  only 
to  see  that  its  quota  is  filled  and  these  missionaries  are  sent  into 
the  field,  but  that  they  are  kept  there,  and  if  the  finances  of  the 
father  who  happens  to  have  a  son  in  the  mission  fails  him,  it  ought 
to  be  a  matter  of  reproach  to  a  ward  that  would  allow  their  repre- 
sentative to  come  home  merely  because  the  father  of  that  boy  can- 


ELDER  MELV1N  J.  BALLARD 


135 


not  furnish  the  means.  There  must  be  a  spirit  of  co-operation, 
on  the  part  of  the  men  and  women  of  this  Church  to  discharge 
this  obligation  the  Lord  has  placed  upon  us.  I  have  often  thought 
of  some  of  our  professional  brethren.  I  recognize  from  my  expe- 
rience in  the  missionary  field  that  these  young  men  that  we  send 
out  are  not  always  able  to  deliver  the  message  to  certain  groups — 
the  educated  classes.  They  feel  abashed  and  ashamed.  Like  at- 
tracts like,  and  they  naturally  go  to  their  own  kind,  where  truly 
we  have  found  the  bulk  of  the  members  of  this  Church.  Neverthe- 
less, our  obligation  is  to  teach  this  truth  to  kings,  to  presidents,  sen- 
ators, governors,  bankers,  teachers,  lawyers,  and  to  men  and  women 
in  the  professional  world.  And  many  of  these  young  men  feel 
wholly  unqualified.  I  have  felt  many  times  not  justified  in  saying 
that  we  had  fairly  and  fully  warned  men  when  we  have  done  our 
best,  because  our  best  was  not  a  good  presentation  always. 

THE  USE  OF  SHORT-TERM  MISSIONS 

Since  this  Church  has  offered  men  the  privilege  of  going  on 
short-term  missions  to  preach  the  gospel,  I  would  like  to  see 
some  of  our  brethren  who  could  not  go  for  a  long  period  of  time 
prepare  themselves  to  go  for  a  shorter  period.  It  is  the  best  vaca- 
tion in  the  world  that  you  could  take,  to  go  into  the  mission  field 
for  six  months  and  preach  this  gospel.  You  would  come  back 
physically  strong,  mentally  alert  and  spiritually  recharged,  and  it 
would  be  the  greatest  blessing  that  could  come  to  you.  I  would 
like  to  see  more  of  it. 

THE  JUDGMENTS  OF  GOD 

I  do  not  want  to  see  the  judgments  of  God  come  upon  men, 
and  yet  after  the  testimony,  as  I  have  just  read,  of  his  servants, 
shall  come  the  testimony  of  thundering  and  of  lightning  and  of 
earthquakes  and  peril  and  disaster.  I  was  impressed  two  weeks 
ago  as  I  read  the  dreadful  story  of  the  cyclone  that  swept  through 
the  southern  part  of  the  states  of  Illinois  and  Indiana,  with  these 
words  that  I  have  just  read.  Particularly  was  I  impressed  with  it 
because  the  city  of  Murphysboro,  in  Southern  Illinois,  where 
one-half  of  the  city  was  destroyed,  and  more  than  two  hundred  of 
our  Father's  children  lost  their  lives,  happens  to  be  the  very  identi- 
cal city  where  I  preached  my  first  gospel  sermon  twenty-eight 
years  ago.  I  had  the  privilege  of  tramping  over  that  entire  belt 
of  country,  where  this  great  disaster  swept  the  land,  for  over  two 
years  without  purse  and  without  scrip,  preaching  this  gospel,  warn- 
ing men.    A  few  obeyed,  but  the  majority  turned  a  deaf  ear. 

A  LOVE  FOR  THE  SOULS  OF  MEN 

Do  I  rejoice  to  see  days  of  sorrow  like  those  which  befell  the 
peoples  of  this  land?  No,  I  feel  like  weeping,  I  feel  like  the  Master 
did  as  he  wept  upon  the  Mount  of  Olives  over  Jerusalem  that  had 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


rejected  him.  No  man  can  spend,  as  you  men  have  done,  years  of 
your  life  in  the  missionary  field — 1  was  privileged  to  labor  thirteen 
years, — and  carry  this  gospel  message  to  the  children  of  men  with- 
out a  love  for  mankind.  I  have  preached  this  gospel  in  sunshine, 
in  dust,  through  the  mud,  I  have  wandered  in  the  cold  of  winter, 
as  well  as  the  heat  of  summer,  and  have  sought  men.  No  man  can 
do  that  who  does  not  have  in  his  heart  a  love  for  the  souls  of  men. 
I  love  them.  I  would  stay  these  dreadful  days,  but  I  cannot.  All 
can  do  is  to  warn  them,  that  they  may  repent  and  find  the  sal- 
vation which  we  offer  them.  The  wedding  is  prepared.  We  are 
bearers  of  the  invitation  calling  men  to  come  to  the  wedding  feast. 
Let  us  not  be  slack  in  continuing  to  give  ourselves  freely,  as  our 
fathers  have  done,  not  only  to  send  our  sons,  but  give  ourselves, 
and  discharge  this  great  obligation,  which  yet  rests  upon  this 
Church.  For  I  bear  witness  to  you  that  fast  and  swift  moving 
events  are  happening  and  transpiring,  and  unless  we  shall  be  alert 
and  awake  we  shall  be  behind  in  the  Lord's  great  program.  God 
help  us  to  be  fully  up  to  all  his  expectations  of  us,  and  find  our- 
selves fully  justified  in  the  efforts  that  we  put  forth,  though  men 
may  reject  us,  in  seeking  to  bring  men  unto  Christ,  is  my  prayer, 
and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen.  , 

ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  of  the  Church 

It  is  indeed  a  wonderful  and  glorious  opportunity  to  bear  the 
holy  Priesthood  which  has  been  restored  to  the  earth,  and  to  be  a 
servant  of  the  Lord,  to  be  a  bearer  of  the  message  of  life  and  salvation. 
In  the  brief  service  which  I  have  been  able  to  render,  in  the  name  of 
/the  Lord,  I  have  Jearned  that  he  is  very  kind  and  merciful  to 
his  children,  that  he  has  placed  in  the  Church,  officers  to  take 
care  of  every  department  and  phase  of  his  work.  In  his  great 
Sermon  on  the  Mount  the  Lord  himself  comforted  the  hearts  of  those 
in  the  different  walks  of  life,  for  he  realized  that  there  were  men  and 
women  in  the  world  who  needed  comfort  and  guidance  and  consolation. 

I  desire  to  express  my  appreciation  of  the  strength  the  Lord 
has  given  to  me  in  his  service  while  officiating  for  him  in 
further  comforting  his  children  in  the  different  walks  of  life. 
Day  after  day,  week  after  week,  month  after  month,  individuals,  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  from  the  different  walks  of  life,  have  been 
strengthened  and  encouraged  and  comforted  through  a  humble  ministry 
which  the  Lord  has  placed  in  the  Church.  I  regret,  however,  to  ex- 
press the  thought  that  while  many  seek  advice  and  council  and  comfort, 
they  do  not  always  follow  it.  We  are  very  much  like  other  people— 
we  are  mortal,  we  have  our  weaknesses,  and  our  faults.  We  are  like 
a  good  many  people  in  the  world,  we  know  much  better  than  we  do. 
We  believe  in  the  gospel,  but  we  do  not  practice  it  quite  as  well  as  we 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


137 


believe  it.  There  are  many  people  in  the  world  who  believe  the  gospel, 
but  they  are  afraid  of  the  water,  or  something  else ;  and  there  are  many 
people  who  believe  in  the  religion  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  are 
afraid  to  so  express  themselves.  There  are  good  men  and  wmen  in 
the  world  who  believe  and  obey  the  gospel  and  receive  its  comforting 
and  consoling  blessings.  The  Lord  inspired  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
to  declare  these  words. 

"There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  the  heaven  before  the 
foundations  of  this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated— And 
when  we_  obtain  any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law 
upon  which  it  is  predicated." 

Therefore,  we  must  learn  the  law  upon  which  our  blessings  are 
predicated  and  when  we  render  obedience  to  that  law,  our  blessings 
will  be  forthcoming. 

In  conversation  with  one  of  our  good  sisters  who  had  raised  a 
large  family,  and  had  made  many  sacrifices,  for  she  was  the  mother  of 
eleven  children,  I  learned  that  she  had  never  been  to  the  House  of 
the  Lord,  and  so  I  persuaded  her,  or  attempted  to  persuade  her, 'to 
go  and  encourage  her  husband  to  go  with  her  and  receive  these  im- 
portant blessings.  She  advised  me  that  she  thought  she  had  already 
clone  all  that  was  necessary.  She  had  reared  her  family,  and  through 
her  faithful  labors  and  sacrifices  she  had  fulfilled  what  she  thought 
was  a  good  mission,  and  now  she  wanted  to  have  some  blessings  of 
her  own.  But  I  tried  to  teach  her,  and  did  teach  her,  that  her  sacrifices 
and  all  of  her  many  blessings  that  she  hand  enjoyed  in  the  past  would 
coire  to  an  end  at  her  death,  unless  she  went  and  had  her  blessings 
sealed  upon  her  by  the  authorized  servants  of  the  Lord,  at  a  place 
which  the  Lord  has  prepared,  and  that  we  call  his  house.  I  encouraged 
her  to  do  the  right  thing  that  her  blessings  might  be  received,  and  her 
comfort  come  in  due  time ;  for  the  Lord  has  declared  that  unless  we 
obey  his  law,  which  is  his  word,  all  vows  and  contracts  have  an  end 
at  death.  Therefore,  if  this  good  woman  does  not  seal  her  vows  and 
contracts,  of  course,  in  company  with  her  companion,  according  to 
the  law  of  the  Lord,  which  is  his  word,  the  blessings  which  she  craves 
will  in  time  come  to  an  end,  and  she  will  not  have  a  claim  upon  those 
blessings  which  her  heart  desires.  Therefore  the  law  which  the  Lord 
has  established  for  the  comfort,  salvation  and  union  of  homes,  with 
mothers  and  fathers  and  children  must  be  complied  with  before  we  can 
receive  these  eternal  blessings. 

I  have  heard  a  good  many  people  say :  "Well,  what  is  the  use 
of  having  blessings  pronounced?  We  get  our  blessings  any  way.  if  we 
live  for  them."  That  is  very  true,  because  we  must  live  for  our 
blessings  if  we  get  them,  but  there  comes  great  comfort  and  consolation 
from  having  our  blessings  both  pronounced  and  sealed  upon  us  by 
authorized  servants  of  the  Lord  in  obedience  to  his  word  and  his  law. 
For  the  Lord  has  placed  in  his  Church  authorized  agents  to  bear  his 
power  and  his  authority  not  only  to  pronounce,  but  to  seal  these  bless- 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ings,  that  the  Lord  may  have  an  anchor  upon  the  souls  of  men  and 
women  forever,  for  neither  death  nor  the  destroyer  will  end  these 
precious  blessings,  but  the  receiver  will  posses  and  enjoy  them  forever 
and  ever. 

And  so  I  appreciate  the  privilege  that  has  come  to  me  as  an  humble 
servant  of  the  Lord  officiating  in  his  name,  not  only  encouraging, 
persuading  and  urging  my  brethren  and  sisters,  my  fellowmen  to  come 
unto  Christ,  and  to  serve  the  Lord  and  to  keep  his  commandments,  but 
to  receive  blessings,  privileges  and  opportunities  that  will  never  come 
to  an  end,  because  they  are  of  an  eternal  character  and  rendered  in 
obedience  to  the  word  and  law  of  the  Lord.  They  will  belong  to 
them  forever,  just  the  same  as  the  children  of  this  good  mother  I  re- 
ferred to,  will  belong  to  their  parents,  provided  they  go  to  the  house 
of  the  Lord  together  with  those  children  and  are  sealed  at  the  altar  of  the 
Lord  forever,  thne  death  will  not  separate  them,  nor  will  any  other 
power,  except  the  power  of  sin  and  transgression ;  for  the  Lord  has 
declared  that  his  blessings  will  come  when  we  obey  the  laws  upon  which 
they  are  predicated.  Only  today  have  I  ministered  in  this  important 
calling  for  the  comfort  and  blessing  of  those  who  are  distressed  in 
spirit ;  many  seek  blessings  for  comfort  because  they  have  been  wayward 
and  indifferent,  many  because  they  have  not  lived  up  to  their  privileges 
in  keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  I  regret  to  say  that  too 
many  of  us  fail  to  call  upon  the  Lord  or  his  servants  until  we  are  in 
distress,  as  the  song  which  has  been  sung  has  reminded  us  that  we 
call  upon  the  Lord  in  our  distress.  How  much  more  pleased  the  Lord 
would  be  if  we  would  go  to  him  in  our  gratitude,  when  we  are 
showered  with  blessings,  in  our  health  and  in  our  vigor  and  in  our 
usefulness,  rather  than  go  in  distress  and  sorrow,  at  the  eleventh  hour 
of  our  distress,  perhaps! 

And  so  I  would  like  to  bear  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
to  the  kindness  and  mercy  of  the  Lord  to  his  children,  to  the  members 
of  his  Church,  those  who  have  come  into  his  fold.  I  know  that  the 
Lord  does  comfort  those  who  seek  him,  in  faith  and  in  true  devotion, 
and  that  the  blessings  will  come  to  those  who  render  obedience  to  the 
commandments  and  the  laws  upon  which  their  blessings  are  predicated. 
I  have  witnessed  the  joy  and  the  great  comfort  and  satisfaction  that 
have  come  to  the  hearts  of  fathers  and  mothers  when  they  have  re- 
ceived their  blessings  in  the  house  of  the  Lord.  I  have  also  heard  many 
testimonies  of  my  brethren  and  sisters  who  have  declared  in  their 
humility  and  in  their  faith  that  the  Lord  has  heard  their  prayers,  that 
he  has  fulfilled  the  promises  pronounced  upon  their  heads  through  the 
servants  of  the  Lord,  because  they  have  rendered  obedience  to  the 
laws  which  govern  their  blessings. 

Now  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  exhort  you  to  look  upon  the  gospel 
in  all  of  its  phases  in  a  practical  sense ;  learn  the  laws  upon  which  your 
blessings  are  perdicated,  for  they  are  simple  enough  and  will  be  made 
clear  to  your  understanding  if  you  seek  to  know  them.    Let  me  exhort 


Elder  hyrum  g.  smith 


-139 


you  also  to  hold  yourselves  in  keeping  with  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord,  concerning  the  laws  of  health  known  to  us  as  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  I  should  like  to  refer  you,  both  old  and  young,  to  the  many 
examples  that  are  written  in  the  old  scriptures  as  well  as  to  the  lives  of 
those  who  are  before  you  today  in  the  ministry  as  general  and  local 
authorities  of  the  Church,  these  men  who  are  here  before  me  today, 
the  bearers  of  the  Priesthood,  the  standard  bearers  in  the  stakes 
and  wards  of  the  Church,  men  who  are  free  from  the  contaminating 
influences  of  the  world,  from  habits  that  would  prevent  the  reception 
of  the  precious  blessings  of  God,  men  whom  we  believe  and  know 
to  be  clean  and  upright  in  their  habits  through  observing  the  teachings 
of  the  gospel,  and  the  laws  of  God  which  bring  to  them  the  joy,  the 
comfort  and  the  satisfaction  of  knowing  that  they  are  keeping  his 
commandments  and  receiving  his  blessings. 

Among  the  examples  recorded  in  ancient  times  I  should  like  to 
refer  you  to  the  example  given  us  by  that  Hebrew  character  who  was 
taken  from  his  home  in  Jerusalem  with  three  other  Hebrew  boys  at 
the  time  of  the  destruction  of  the  temple  and  the  capture  of  Jerusalem 
under  the  Babylonian  chief.  Daniel  was  taken  to  Babylon  as  a  captive 
with  the  intention  on  the  part  of  the  great  chief  to  feed  and  care  for 
him  well  that  he  might  grow  up  and  become  a  wonderful  and  worthy 
servant,  coming  from  the  best  and  choicest  of  all  the  Hebrew  families, 
but  the  boy  refused  the  food  that  was  offered  him,  because  he  had 
learned  that  it  would  defile  his  body  and  make  it  unfit  for  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord.  And  so  if  you  will  read  the  story  of  his  life  to  the  very 
end,  you  will  see  a  complete  fulfilment  of  the  promise  of  the  Lord  that 
is  made  to  you  and  to  me  and  to  all  Israel  who  will  obey  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord  concerning  the  Word  of  Wisdom ;  for  Daniel 
was  able  to  find  hidden  treasures  of  knowledge,  and  he  was  able  to 
pass  by  the  destroying  angels ;  for  when  he  was  placed  in  the  lions'  den 
and  the  king  watched  during  the  night  and  at  the  dawn  of  the  morning 
shouted  out  to  Daniel  to  know  if  he  was  still  alive,  and  Daniel  answered 
back: 

"O  king,  live  for  ever. 

"My  God  hath  sent  his  angel,  and  hath  shut  the  lions'  mouths,  that 
they  have  not  hurt  me." 

I  pray  God  to  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  bless  all  the 
officers  and  members  of  the  Church,  in  all  the  stakes  and  wards  of 
Zion,  and  in  the  mission  fields,  and  in  all  the  places  and  capacities 
which  the  Lord  has  placed  his  work,  that  his  name  and  work  may  be 
honored  and  glorified,  that  his  children  may  receive  his  blessings 
through  learning  and  obeying  the  laws  upon  which  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  are  predicated,  both  spiritual  and  temporal. 

God  bless  you  my  brethren  and  sisters,  throughout  all  the  Church, 
and  throughout  all  the  land,  that  his  peace  may  be  in  your  homes,  in 
your  dwelling  places  and  his  blessings  be  upon  your  fields  and 
flocks,  that  you  may  not  forget  the  Lord,  for  he  will  not  forget 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


you,  so  lung  as  you  are  true  and  faithful  in  keeping  and  observing  his 
commandmnets,  and  I  bless  you  my  brethren  and  sisters,  by  the 
authority  which  the  Lord  has  given  me  to  bless  all  Israel,  that  peace 
and  health  and  happiness  may  be  in  your  homes,  until  your  mortal 
missions  are  finished,  and  I  do  it  humbly,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

"Open  the  Gates  of  the  Temple,"  was  sung  by  William  Russel. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

Of  the  Council  of  Seventy,  and  President  of  the 
Calif  orma  Miss-ion 

I  do  not  suppose,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  anyone  in  attendance 
at  this  general  conference  of  the  Church  has  had  as  trying  an  experience 
as  I  have  had  during  these  meetings. 

The  President,  in  calling  upon  the  brethren  to  address  the  con- 
ference, has  gone  from  stand  to  stand.  I  know  the  brethren  that 
occupy  the  stand  that  I  have  the  honor  to  sit  in,  have  felt  several 
times  that  they  were  about  to  be  called  upon  to  speak,  only  to  discover 
that  they  were  mistaken.  My  companions  for  the  past  three  days 
have  been  taken  from  either  side  of  me  as  they  in  turn  have  been 
called  to  speak,  and  now  at  the  last  moment  I  am  to  have  the  pleasure 
after  speaking  for  a  brief  time  of  sitting  without  any  further  anxiety 
for  a  few  minutes  during  the  closing  moments  of  this  general  con- 
ference. It  does  create  in  the  minds  of  men  who  are  called  upon  to 
address  these  great  assemblies  a  very  great  feeling  of  anxiety.  Presi- 
dent Charles  W.  Penrose  upon  one  occasion  made  a  remark  of  that 
character  and  heaved  a  sigh  of  relief  when  he  came  into  one  of  the 
stake  conferences,  here  in  the  city,  and  expressed  to  me  personally 
the  pleasure  he  felt  when  he  thought  that  he  would  be  under  no  responsi- 
bility to  address  the  people.  There  were  other  brethren  who  had 
been  especially  appointed  to  attend  that  stake  conference  and  the 
responsibility  of  speaking  would  be  upon  them.  I  have  heard  President 
George  O.  Cannon  in  his  life  time  more  than  once  make  a  similar 
declaration.  You  are  all  acquainted  with  the  fact  that  it  is  quite  a 
common  thing  for  these  brethren  who  belong  to  the  presiding  authorities 
of  the  Church  to  intimate  when  they  stand  up  before  the  people  that 
they  have  a  feeling  of  anxiety,  and  desire  the  help  and  the  assistance 
that  can  be  given  by  the  congregation  through  their  faith  and  their 
prayers. 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  notwithstanding  the 
rather  trying  experience  that  I  have  had  during  the  conference,  to 
say  that  my  spirit  is  in  harmony  with  the  teachings  that  have  been 
presented  during  these  meetings.  I  respond  in  my  soul  to  the  testi- 
mony and  teachings  and  information  imparted  by  President  Heber  J. 
Grant  in  the  opening  meeting,  and  as  I  have  listened  to  the  brethren 
who  have  been  called  upon  to  speak  to  the  people  I  have  felt  in 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 


141 


my  whole  being  that  I  could  say  Amen  with  all  my  heart  to  the 
counsels  and  testimonies  that  have  been  delivered. 

I  have  the  pleasure,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  of  laboring  as  a 
missionary  in  California.  The  mission  covers  the  state  of  California 
passed  away  considerable  anxiety  because  'of  sickness.  \  We  have 
had  in  that  mission  during  the  year  that  has  just  passed  an  average 
of  about  one  hundred  and  twenty-five  missionaries.  Of  this  number  I 
believe  at  the  close  of  last  year,  or  at  the  opening  of  this  year,  there 
were  about  thirty-nine  lady  missionaries,  and  the  balance  of  the  force 
is  made  up  of  young  men  such  as  have  been  spoken  of  here  during 
these  conference  meetings.  I  am  happy  to  say  that  these  men  and 
women,  speaking  in  a  general  sense,  at  the  present  time  are  in  the 
enjoyment  of  good  health.  There  are  some  minor  troubles,  but  no 
serious  illness.  We  have  had,  however,  during  the  year  that  has 
passed  away,  considerable  anxiety  because  of  sickness.  We  have 
had  both  men  and  women  who  have  submitted  to  surgical  operations 
for  appendicitis,  and  in  one  or  two  instances  the  cases  were  very 
serious,  and  the  surgeons  and  nurses  that  waited  upon  them  despaired 
of  their  lives.  We  are  very  thankful,  however,  that  through  the 
blessings  and  mercy  of  the  Lord  our  God  the  lives  of  the  missionaries 
who  have  been  thus  in  danger  have  been  spared,  and  they  have  been 
raised  up  to  health  and  vigor  and  have  been  able  to  again  take  up  the 
prosecution  of  the  work  resting  upon  them  as  ambassadors  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ. 

I  would  like  to  say  to  bishops  and  stake  presidents,  that  I  fear 
at  times  there  is  not  sufficient  attention  given  to  the  physical  condi- 
tion of  men  and  women  who  are  being  called  to  labor  as  missionaries. 
I  think  possibly  in  some  instances  there  is  a  wrong  impression  in  the 
minds  of  some  people  regarding  the  nature  of  missionary  work.  I 
am  quite  satisfied  that  some  times  there  is  a  feeling  that  an  individual 
who  is  run  down  can  be  called  into  the  mission  field  and  there 
recuperate.  Such  a  thought  I  am  sure  is  a  very  great  mistake.  Mis- 
sionary work,  when  it  is  faithfully  performed,  is  hard  work,  the 
strongest  men,  and  the  strongest  women,  who  come  into  the  California 
mission  find  in  the  performance  of  their  missionary  duties  that  they 
have  all  that  their  physical  powers  will  enable  them  to  do ;  and  it  is 
a  very  great  mistake  to  send  into  the  mission  field,  either  men  or 
women,  who  are  not  possessed  of  good  physical  power,  for  they  not 
only  are  unable  themselves,  as  a  general  thing,  after  prosecuting  their 
work  for  a  brief  season  to  continue  that  work,  but  they  demand  also 
attention  of  other  missionaries  in  nursing  them  and  this  interferes 
with  the  service  that  the  healthy  missionary  might  render.  I  am 
very  glad  to  have  received  the  information  since  coming  to  attend 
this  conference  that  more  careful  attention  than  ever  before  is  being 
given  to  the  health  of  missionaries  to  make  as  sure  as  possible  that 
they  are  in  .good  physical  condition  before  they  go  out  to  preach  the 
gospel. 


142 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  California  mission  is  probably  unlike  any  other  mission.  Some 
eighteen  months  ago,  or  such  a  period,  the  presiding  authorities  of  the 
Church  felt  that  it  would  be  for  the  advantage  of  the  work  of  the 
Lord  to  organize  a  stake  of  Zion  in  that  mission.  That  is  something 
that  has  not  taken  place  heretofore  in  any  mission  field.  In  the  city 
of  Los  Angeles,  which  is  the  most  populous  part  of  the  California 
mission,  a  stake  of  Zion  was  organized.  That  stake,  I  am  glad  to 
say,  has  made  very  splendid  advancement.  It  was  organized  with 
six  wards  and  three  branches,  and  it  has  grown  now  to  have  seventeen 
wards  and  twenty-two  Sunday  schools.  I  do  not  suppose  that  in  any 
ether  mission  it  can  be  said  that  there  was  received  and  recorded,  during 
the  year  1924,  over  thirty-six  hundred  Church  members,  who  had 
come  in  from  adjoining  communities  from  the  stakes  and  wards  here 
in  Utah  and  Idaho,  and  from  Arizona  and  from  other  sections,  but  that 
is  what  took  place  in  the  California  mission  last  year.  Over  thirty- 
six  hundred  members  were  recorded  in  the  books  of  the  stake  of  the  mis- 
sion, who  had  come  from  other  sections  of  the  country.  I  do  not  suppose 
that  thirty-six  hundred  Latter-day  Saints  actually  came  into  Cali- 
fornia during  the  year.  Possibly  many  of  them  had  been  in  the 
state  for  a  considerable  period  of  time,  some  of  them  no  doubt  may 
have  been  there  for  some  years,  but  they  have  only  now  been  recorded 
as  members  of  the  Church  on  the  records  of  the  mission  or  on  the 
records  of  the  stake. 

There  have  also  been  a  large  number  who  have  been  transferred, 
probably  thirteen  hundred  or  fourteen  hundred  Church  members  have 
received  their  certificates  of  membership  during  the  year,  and  have  been 
transferred  to  other  communities.  This,  of  course,  causes  changes 
in  officers.  There  have  already  been  in  the  Los  Angeles  stake  since 
its  organization  changes  in  four  or  five  different  bishoprics,  and  there 
have  also  been  a  number  of  changes  in  the  high  council.  This  is 
brought  about  by  the  fact  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  are  in  Cali- 
fornia as  a  general  thing  are  not  in  the  condition  as  home  owners 
indicated  by  the  report  made  by  President  Grant  at  the  opening  of  this 
conference.  They  are  not  home-owners.  There  is  but  a  very  small 
percentage  of  the  members  of  the  Church  in  the  California  mission  who 
own  their  own  homes.  They  are  wage-earners  as  a  general  thing. 
They  are  living,  many  of  them,  in  rented  apartments,  in  fact  the 
great  majority  of  them  are  in  rented  apartments,  and  many  of  them  are 
living  in  furnished  apartments,  and  it  is  an  easy  matter  when  one 
doesn't  own  a  home  if  he  hears  that  there  is  a  little  better  prospect  in 
some  other  section  to  pick  up  his  grip  and  call  for  a  drayman  to 
take  his  trunk  to  the  railroad  station  and  go  elsewhere.  I  am  glad 
to  say.  however,  notwithstanding  the  large  number  of  people  who 
have  come  to  California  who  are  Latter-day  Saints,  there  has  been  work- 
as  a  general  thing  in  the  past  for  all  of  this  great  influx  of  people 
as  well  as  for  tens  of  thousands  who  have  come  from  all  parts  of  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 


143 


nation.  At  the  present  time,  however,  conditions  are  not  as  desirable 
as  they  have  been,  from  a  working  point  of  view  in  the  past. 

I  would  recommend  that  if  there  are  any  Latter-day  Saints  who 
have  the  thought  in  their  minds  of  coming  to  California  for  the  purpose 
of  finding  employment  they  be  a  little  slow  in  putting  such 
thought  into  execution.  I  think  I  can  safely  say  that  there  are  more 
men  in  California  at  the  present  time  than  there  is  work,  and  that  there 
are  many  idle  men  in  California.  Rents  are  very  high.  California 
is  a  wonderful  state,  a  beautiful  country,  a  desirable  place  for  habitation 
in  many  respects,  but  it  is  not  a  very  desirable  place  for  men  and  women 
to  come  to  who  do  not  have  money  in  their  pockets,  and  I  would 
like  to  say  that  Latter-day  Saints  without  money  will  be  altogether 
better  off,  and  they  will  be  altogether  safer,  in  these  well-established 
communities  where  the  people  own  their  homes,  than  to  migrate  to 
California. 

We  have  the  experience  in  the  California  mission  of  having  our 
headquarters  in  the  city  of  Los  Angeles  and  that  is  also  the  head- 
quarters of  the  Los  Angeles  stake  of  Zion.  We  are  performing 
missionary  work  just  in  the  same  manner  that  we  conducted  missionary 
work  before  the  stake  was  organized.  I  think  that  our  missionary 
service  has  been  of  very  great  value  to  the  stake  organization,  for  the 
local  brethren  who  are  tied  up  with  their  employment  could  not  have 
gone  out  among  the  people  and  looked  up  these  hosts  of  strangers 
and  have  established  the  organizations  that  have  been  established  by  the 
labor  o>-  the  missionaries,  and  which  has  increased  the  organizations 
within  the  stakes  from    nine  to  twenty-two,  as  I  have  stated. 

There  are  at  the  present  time  about  six  thousand  members  in  the 
Los  Angeles  stake  of  Zion.  There  are  a  little  less  than  nine  thou- 
sand members  in  the  California  mission  outside  of  the  Los  Angeles 
stake  of  Zion,  so  that  we  have  there  some  fifteen  or  sixteen  thousand 
enrolled  members  of  the  Church  within  the  California  mission,  when 
we  include  the  membership  of  the  Los,  Angeles  stake.  There  are 
thousands  possibly  in  the  state  that  are  still  unknown  to  us.  We  also 
have  gone  out  into  the  Maricopa  stake  by  the  expressed  desire  of  the 
bishopric  of  the  Phoenix  ward  and  the  presidency  of  the  Maricopa  stake, 
and  have  performed  some  very  effective  missionary  work  in  the  city 
of  Phoenix.  Phoenix  is  the  capital  of  the  state  of  Arizona.  I  am 
glad  to  say  that  I  recently  heard  from  the  lips  of  Bishop  Price  the 
very  highest  words  of  praise  and  commendation  for  the  splendid  ser- 
vices that  were  being  rendered  in  the  city  of  Phoenix,  by  California 
missionaries  who  through  their  labors  are  strengthening  the  hands 
of  the  bishopric,  and  drawing  many  strangers  into  the  meetings.  Hr 
reported  to  me  that  they  had  more  strangers  coming  to  their  meetings 
since  the  last  missionaries  were  sent  into  that  city  than  had  ever  been 
in  the  habit  of  attending  their  meetings  before. 

We  have  also  gone  out  during  the  same  period  into  the  northern 
part  of  the  state,  and  at  times  have  labored  to  some  extent  in  com- 


144 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


munities  that  form  part  of  the  Snowflake  stake  of  Zion,  but  we  have 
only  gone  there  by  the  invitation  and  with  the  full  permission  of  the 
authorities  who  preside  over  that  stake.  These  things,  I  take  it,  are  a 
little  different  to  conditions  that  prevail  elsewhere  in  the  missions 
here  in  the  United  States  or  in  other  sections. 

I  am  proud  to  be  a  missionary,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  I  am 
proud  of  my  companionship.  The  young  men  and  the  young  women 
who  make  up  the  missionary  corps  of  the  California  mission,  are  not 
experienced  men,  they  are  not  experienced  women.  They  come  into  the 
mission  with  a  very  great  degree  of  anxiety.  They  come  ofttimes 
wondering  whether  they  have  any  right  or  authority  to  speak  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  whether  they  have  authority  to  ad- 
minister the  sacred  and  holy  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  but  thanks  be 
to  God  through  faithful  labor  almost  without  a  solitary  exception 
they  have  found  God,  they  have  learned  that  by  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  God,  our  heavenly  Father  is  not  very  far  from  any 
one  of  us.  They  have  received  manifestations  of  the  Spirit  of  God, 
they  have  laid  their  hands  upon  those  who  have  been  seriously  af- 
flicted and  the  Lord  our  God  has  heard  their  humble  prayers,  and  by 
his  mysterious  power  he  has  healed  those  who  have  been  afflicted. 
He  has  poured  into  their  souls  understanding  in  relation  to  the  doc- 
trines of  the  gospel,  until  they  have  soon  come  to  be  able  to  stand 
upon  their  feet  and  bear  witness  of  the  truth  as  it  has  been  revealed 
in  the  dispensation  in  which  we  live.  And  they  are  not  doubting,  they 
are  full  of  conviction,  they  are  full  of  understanding,  they  are  full  of 
determination,  they  are  full  of  humility,  they  are  full  of  willingness  and 
ready  to  go  and  come  and  anxious  to  labor  to  the  very  best  of  their 
power  that  the  message  of  the  gospel  may  be  preached  among  the 
people.  We  are  trying  to  impress  upon  the  minds  of  men  and  women 
with  whom  we  come  in  contact  that  there  has  indeed  been  this  rev- 
elation of  the  gospel  that  has  been  spoken  of  so  frequently  during 
our  conference  meetings,  that  in  our  own  time  the  heavens  have  been 
opened,  that  the  Lord  our  God  has  made  his  appearance,  with  his  Son, 
our  Redeemer,  and  that  by  the  sending  of  holy  angels  he  has  con- 
ferred authority  upon  men  to  call  people  to  repentance  and  that  the  mis- 
sionaries speak  legally  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  The  mis- 
sionaries believe  that  they  have  that  authority,  and  in  the  fear  of  God 
they  are  going  among  the  people,  calling  men  and  women  to  repentance, 
expounding  to  them  the  principles  that  have  been  revealed,  ready  and 
willing  and  anxious  to  administer  to  them  the  holy  ordinances  of  the 
gospel,  if  people  will  believe  and  repent.  I  am  glad  to  be  one  with 
them. 

My  soul  is  filled  with  joy  and  thanksgiving  and  praise.  The 
hands  of  the  servant  of  God  who  presides  over  this  Church  were  laid 
upon  my  head  before  I  went  to  California,  and  blessings  were  pro- 
nounced upon  my  head  that  it  seemed  to  me  when  I  commenced  my 
ministry  in  the  midst  of  that  people  never  could  have  fulfilment,  yet 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 


145 


I  stand  here  before  this  great  congregation  this  afternoon  and  bear 
witness  that  in  the  mercy  and  providence,  and  through  the  power  of  God, 
he  has  fulfilled  marvelously  the  promises  that  have  been  placed  upon 
my  head,  and  I  feel  that  I  am  under  obligation  to  give  my  service 
to  my  Father  in  heaven  for  the  building  up  and  advancement  of  his 
work. 

God  gave  me  my  life  in  the  days  of  my  young  manhood,  and 
raised  me  up  from  a  deathbed  by  his  power,  and  I  have  covenanted 
with  my  Father  in  heaven  upon  many  occasions  that  I  would  try  to 
manifest  appreciation  for  the  marvelous  power  that  was  manifest 
in  my  own  behalf  when  he  raised  me  from  that  condition  of 
death.  I  know  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  the  living  God.  I  know 
that  this  Church  is  in  very  deed  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  know 
that  the  power  and  authority  of  the  Priesthood  has  been  conferred  upon 
men,  and  that  by  that  authority  men  minister  and  expound  and  preach 
the  gospel  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  Jesus  Christ  himself  taught 
that  it  was  in  vain  to  teach  for  doctrine  the  commandments  of  men — 
"In  vain  do  ye  worship  me,  teaching  for  doctrine  the  commandment* 
of  men."  That  is  just  as  true  today  as  it  was  when  those  words  fell 
from  the  lips  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  we  are  not  teaching  the 
commandments  of  men,  we  are  teaching  the  doctrines  that  have  been 
revealed  by  the  Lord,  and  we  are  under  obligation  to  teach  and  maintain 
the  truth.  God  help  us  to  do  it,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  LAWRENCE  G.  KIRKMAN 

President  of  the  Tzvin  Falls  Stake  of  Zion 

This  is  a  new  experience  for  me.  I  am  rather  young  in  my  office 
and  rather  young  in  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
yet  in  humility  I  appreciate  this  wonderful  privilege.  It  seems  to  me 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  experienced  a  multitude  of  sensations 
during  this  conference.  It  seems  to  me  that  never  in  my  life  have  I  had 
so  many  thrilling  sensations  during  meetings  of  a  conference  as  I  have 
had  during  the  last  two  or  three  days. 

We  live  in  sunny  southern  Idaho,  an  altitude  a  little  lower  than  this, 
and  a  wonderful  climate  of  about  sixteen  or  seventeen  hours  of  sunshine. 
In  the  summer  time  the  sun  rises  at  about  5  :00  o'clock  in  the  morning 
and  at  the  longest  day  we  have  a  most  glorious  sunset  at  about  8 :20 
in  the  evening.  Perhaps  that  would  be  strange  to  you  people  in  the 
mountains,  but  where  we  live  there  is  scarcely  a  mountain  either  east 
or  west  of  us,  but  some  small  mountains  south  and  north;  therefore 
the  sun  comes  almost  at  is  does  in  the  east,  from  the  ground,  and 
sets  in  the  ground  in  the  west  in  the  evening.  We  have  been  blessed 
wonderfully,  it  seems  to  me,  in  this  splendid  country,  with  the  most 
wonderful  soil,  I  think,  in  the  United  States,  the  most  productive  land 


146 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  have  ever  seen,  and  it  is  undoubtely  a  selection  of  the  best  people 
from  all  over  the  United  States,  progressive  men  who  have  been  willing 
to  pioneer,  leave  their  homes  and  their  business  and  risk  their  fortunes 
in  a  new  country.  Such  people  seem  to  comprise  the  personnel  of  this 
country,  and  I  have  had  a  great  deal  of  pleasure  in  explaining  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  a  number  of  these  broad-minded,  sensible 
men.  There  is  not  the  prejudice  there  that  you  would  expect  in  a 
country  of  this  kind.  I  believe  we  are  treated  almost  as  generously  as 
any  other  church  in  that  locality. 

About  eighteen  years  ago  when  we  moved  to  Idaho,  if  you  will 
pardon  the  personal  reference,  we  had  a  membership  of  about  two 
hundred  people  in  the  city  of  Twin  Falls.  Today  we  have  two  thriving 
wards,  one  with  a  Sunday  school  of  two  hundred  twenty-five  to  two 
hundred  and  fifty  members,  and  another  Sunday  school  with  about  one 
hundred  sixty  or  one  hundred  seventy-five  members.  A  number  of  good 
Latter-day  Saints  have  gathered  in  that  locality  and  are  making  their 
homes  there,  and  with  the  best  prospects,  and  I  feel  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  have  been  fortunate  indeed  to  cast  their  lot  there.  The  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  it  seems  to  me,  is  dearer  to  the  people  there  than  in 
other  communities  where  I  have  lived.  I  can  safely  say  there  is  not 
a  member  of  the  stake  presidency,  high  council  or  any  other  stake 
officer  who  does  not  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  There  perhaps  are 
two  or  three  stake  members  who  do  not  pay  a  full  tithing.  I  say 
this  very  humbly  without  the  least  degree  of  boasting,  because  I  feel 
that  the  atmosphere  in  which  we  live  is  rather  conducive  to  that  con- 
dition, that  we  are  forced  to  live  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  because  of 
the  demand  made  of  us  by  our  neighbors,  and  it  is  a  good  thing,  and  the 
missionary  element  which  President  McMurrin  has  just  mentioned  is 
very  noticeable  there. 

I  wish  the  President  would  see  fit  to  send  missionaries  into  that 
country — the  greatest  missionary  field  in  the  world.  I  have  traveled 
many  days  and  many  nights,  sometimes  for  weeks,  without  an  op- 
portunity of  preaching  the  gospel  to  a  single  soul  during  my  missionary 
labors,  but  in  Twin  Falls  every  day  we  could  have  hundreds  of  op- 
portunities. Men  are  commencing  to  inquire  about  the  gospel ;  they  are 
reading  the  Book  of  Mormon.  We  are  giving  out  a  great  number  of 
tracts,  and  I  wish  we  could  have  ten  or  fifteen  missionaries  constantly 
to  help  us  in  that  splendid  field.  , 

I  pray  for  the  success  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  pray  that 
the  gospel  may  spread  and  that  the  honest  in  heart  may  gather  out, 
that  they  may  have  this  thrill  that  you  people  have  been  experiencing 
during  the  last  two  or  three  days.  That  sensation  is  not  known  to  the 
person  outside  of  the  Church.  He  may  seek  other  thrills  and  other 
experiences  that  are  sometimes  unwholesome.  God  bless  us  that  we  may 
cultivate  and  enjoy  these  pleasing,  happy,  stimulating  thrills  that  will 
make  men  and  women  better,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  HARRY  L.  PAYNE 


14," 


ELDER  HARRY  L.  PAYNE 

President  of  the  St.  Joseph  Stake  of  Zion 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I  assure  you  it  is  with  a  feeling 
of  timidity  that  I  stand  before  this  vast  audience  today,  and  I  humbly 
pray  that  the  few  words  I  may  utter  may  be  guided  and  directed  by  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord.  I  rejoice  in  the  opportunity  that  I  have  of  being 
a  humble  servant  in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  am  indeed  grateful  for 
the  testimony  which  I  have  of  the  divinity  of  this  work  in  which  we  are 
all  engaged.  My  heart  has  been  touched,  and  I  have  been  thrilled, 
during  the  services  of  this  conference  in  listening  to  the  wonderful 
testimonies  of  our  brethren,  in  listening  to  the  words  of  inspiration  which 
have  been  given  to  us  through  the  power  and  blessings  of  the  Lord, 
and  his  warning,  advice,  and  admonition  to  this  people. 

Reference  has  been  made  by  many  of  the  brethren  to  the  fact  that 
as  a  people  we  stand  upon  our  individual  testimony.  I  want  to  say, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  also  that  with  this  individual  testimony  there 
comes  an  individual  responsibility  to  every  one  who  has  named  the 
name  of  Christ.  No  one  else  in  all  the  world  can  save  me  but  myself. 
No  one  can  work  your  salvation  except  yourself.  It  is  after  all  an 
individual  work,  and  we  have  embarked  in  the  service  of  the  Lord, 
and  we  have  made  covenants  with  the  Lord  that  we  would  keep  his 
commandments  and  do  his  will.  The  Master  while  here  on  the  earth 
said :  "I  must  do  the  works  of  him  that  sent  me,  while  it  is  day,  for  the 
night  cometh  when  no  man  can  work."  My  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
responsibility  of  doing  this  individual  work  is  upon  us  today,  not  at 
some  far  distant  time,  and  I  am  wondering,  and  have  wondered,  dur- 
ing the  services  of  this  conference,  how  many  of  us  are  going  home 
and  reduce  to  practice  the  admonitions  and  instructions  that  have  been 
given  us  from  the  servants  of  the  Lord.  After  all  we  have  each  and 
every  one  an  individual  work  to  perform.  I  think  it  was  Emerson  who 
said :  "No  man  is  born  into  this  world  whose  work  is  not  born  with 
him."  No  one  is  born  into  the  work  of  God  whose  work  is  not  bor*n 
with  him. 

"There  is  surely  somewhere  a  lowly  place, 

In  regions  of  a  field  so  wide, 
Where  I  may  labor  through  life's  short  day, 
For  Jesus  the  crucified." 

Surely  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  work  of  God  there  is  a 
place,  there  is  opportunity  for  every  one  of  us  to  do  that  work  which 
God  and  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer,  our  Master  and  Captain,  expects 
us  to  do.    I  am  reminded  of  the  words  of  the  poet  who  said : 

"Out  of  the  night  that  covers  me, 

Black  as  the  pit  from  pole  to  pole, 
I  thank  whatever  gods  may  be, 

For  my  unconquerable  soul. 


14S 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


In  the  fell  clutch  of  circumstance, 

I  have  not  winced  nor  cried  aloud, 
Under  the  bludgeonings  of  chance, 

My  head  is  bloody,  but  unbowed. 
It  matters  not  how  strait  the  gate, 

How  charged  with  punishments  the  scroll, 
I  am  the  master  of  my  fate : 

I  am  the  captain  of  my  soul." 

God  help  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  realize  the  responsibilities 
resting-  upon  us  individually.  May  we  be  able  to  carry  to  our  wards 
and  stakes  the  words  as  they  have  been  given  to  us  from  the  servants 
of  the  Lord,  and  inspire  anew  a  determination  upon  the  part  of  our 
brethren  and  sisters  who  have  not  been  favored  to  be  here,  to  be 
more  faithful  in  the  future  than  they  have  hitherto  beeta  in  the  work 
of  the  Lord,  for  I  bear  you  my  testimony  in  humility,  in  fear  and  in 
trembling  that  I  know  as  I  know  that  I  live  that  this  is  God's  work.  I 
know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  in 
very  deed  a  prophet  of  the  living  God,  and  I  know  that  Heber  J. 
Grant  who  stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church  today  is  God's  mouth- 
piece and  prophet.  May  God  help  us  to  realize  the  responsibilities  rest- 
ing upon  us,  and  to  discharge  them  faithfully  and  well,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  B.  LARSEN 

President  of  the  Shelley  Stake  of  Zion 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  when  I  came  into  the  meeting  this  after- 
noon I  met  a  lady  on  the  grounds  with  whom  I  lived  when  I  attended 
school  at  Snow  Academy,  and,  of  course,  I  was  very  grateful  and  happy 
to  see  her,  and  she  said  to  me :  "I  suppose  when  you  were  living  with 
me  you  did  not  think  that  some  day  you  would  be  a  president  of  a 
stake,"  and  I  can  assure  you  that  I  did  not  think,  and  had  not  thought, 
at  that  time,  that  I  would  ever  occupy  this  position.  But  I  can  truth- 
fully say  that  I  am  grateful  that  I  have  been  called  to  this  position,  and 
I  hope  that  I  will  be  able  to  give  real  service  in  this  work. 

I  have  a  testimony  of  the  truthfulness  of  this  gospel.  I  know 
that  the  Lord  hears  and  answers  our  prayers.  This  testimony  came  to 
me  while  I  was  at  that  school,  the  Snow  Academy,  down  at  Ephraim, 
Sanpete  county.  I  remember,  on  a  certain  occasion,  that  I  wanted  very 
much  for  the  Lord  to  hear  my  prayers,  and  he  did  hear  them,  and 
all  night  long,  or  nearly  so,  I  poured  out  my  soul  to  him.  Finally  I 
went  to  sleep,  and  in  the  morning  I  awoke  with  an  assurance  that  has 
never  left  me  througout  all  the  years  that  have  passed  since  that  time. 
I  knew  somehome  that  the  Lord  had  heard  my  prayer,  and  that  my 
prayer  was  answered,  and  it  has  been  answered  and  fulfilled  to  the 
letter.  Everything  that  I  asked  for  in  that  prayer  lias  been  brought 
about,  and  I  knew  that  morning,  when  I  awoke  after  having  slept  just 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  LARSEN 


149 


a  very  little  while,  that  it  would  be  just  as  I  am  telling  you  that  it 
has  been. 

I  rejoice  in  being  privileged  to  be  in  attendance  at  this  conference. 
Like  the  other  brethren  who  have  spoken,  I  have  been  thrilled.  My 
eyes  have  been  filled  with  tears  many  times  during  this  conference,  and 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  borne  testimony  to  me,  every  fiber  of  my 
body  has  responded  and  said  Amen,  and  what  has  been  said  is  true.  I 
add  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  those  which  have  been 
borne  already,  that  this  is  the  Church  of  Christ,  that  this  is  the  work 
of  the  Lord  that  we  are  engaged  in,  and  I  am  grateful  with  you  to  be 
privileged  to  be  of  service  in  this  great  and  glorious  cause.  I  know  that 
the  Lord  can  bless  us,  I  know  that  he  can  make  us  equal  to  whatever 
call  is  made  of  us,  and  if  we  will  only  humble  ourselves,  if  we  will  only 
put  ourselves  in  condition  the  Lord  will  bless  us  and  make  us  equal  to 
these  responsibilities  and  duties  and  calls  that  come  to  us,  and  they  are 
blessings  to  us.  , 

I  am  grateful  to  have  the  privilege  of  working  with  our  people. 
We  have  a  wonderful  people,  in  our  section  of  the  country,  and  my 
testimony  is  strengthened  in  everything  I  do,  and  the  more  I  do,  and  the 
more  I  serve,  in  this  Church,  the  greater  becomes  my  testimony  of  the 
divinity  of  this  work. 

I  leave  my  testimony  with  you  that  this  is  the  Church  of  Christ, 
that  we  are  engaged  in  the  service  of  the  Master,  and  I  only  hope 
that  I  may  remain  steadfast.  I  know  that  the  Church  can  go  on 
without  me,  and  I  do  know  that  I  cannot  go  on  without  the  Church ;  so 
I  hope  and  pray  that  I  may  be  able  to  continue  steadfast  to  the  end, 
because  I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  God.  May  God  bless  us  and 
help  us  that  we  may  be  able  to  remain  faithful  to  the  end,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  General  Authorities  and  the  General  Officers  of  the 
Church;  all  of  whom  were  sustained  in  their  positions  and  callings 
by  the  unamious  vote  of  the  large  assembly,  as  follows : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Charles  W.  Penrose,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF   THE   COUNCIL   OF   THE   TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 


150 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Reed  Smoot  James  E.  Talmage 

George  Albert  Smith  Stephen  L.  Richards 

George  F.  Richards  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

David  O.  McKay  John  A  Widtsoe. 

PRESIDING  PATRIARCH 

Hyrnm  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and 
the  Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Brigham  H.  Roberts 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Charles  H.  Hart 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Levi  Edgar  Young 

Joseph  W.  McMurrin  Rey  L.  Pratt 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Charles  W.  Nibley,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor. 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants  :  Andrew 
Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A  William  Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 

CHURCH    BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Charles  W.  Penrose  David  O.  McKay 

Anthony  W.  Ivins  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Willard  Young  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Rudger  Clawson  John  A  Widtsoe 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Adam  S.  Bennion 
Authur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer. 

SUPERINTENDENT  OF  CHURCH  SCHOOLS 

Adam  S.  Bennion 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp  John  C.  Cutler  Peter  G.  Johnston 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor         B.  Cecil  Gates,  Asst.  Conductor 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


151 


ORGANISTS 


John  J.  McClellan 
Edward  P.  Kimball 
Tracy  Y.  Cannon 


Alexander  Shriener 
Frank  W.  Asper 


George  C.  Smith,  Sec.  and  Treas. 

CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Edward  H.  Anderson 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


CLOSING  REMARKS 


I  desire  to  express  my  gratitude  and  thanksgiving  to  the  Lord  for 
the  rich  outpouring  of  his  spirit  during  our  conference.  It  seems  to 
me  that  we  have  never  had  as  large  an  attendance  at  any  other  con- 
ference within  my  recollection  as  we  have  had  during  this  conference. 
I  feel  that  all  those  who  have  spoken  here  have  been  blessed  of  our 
heavenly  Father.  As  nearly  as  I  can  judge,  the  people  have  been 
deeply  interested  in  what  has  been  said  to  them  and  their  hearts  have 
responded  to  the  teachings  of  those  who  have  addressed  them  during  the 
conference.  I  regret  that  we  did  not  have  at  least  another  hour,  so 
that  I  could  have  announced  that  during  my  presidency  every  stake 
president  has  had  the  privilege  of  speaking  or  of  uttering  a  prayer 
from  this  stand.  As  it  is,  I  believe  all  our  94  stake  presidents  have 
had  that  privilege  with  the  exception  of  those  chosen  last  year — not  more 
than  half  a  dozen. 


I  know  of  nothing  that  I  have  enjoyed  more  in  our  conference 
than  the  brief  testimonies  of  the  men  who  stand  at  the  head  of  the 
various  stakes  of  Zion.  There  was  a  burning  power  in  those  testi- 
monies of  their  individual  knowledge  regarding  the  divinity  of  this 
work.  It  is  that  personal  knowledge,  that  still,  small  voice  of  rev- 
elation coming  to  every  honest,  prayerful  soul,  in  answer  to  prayer, 
which  gives  the  power  to  this  Church.  Without  this  individual  testi- 
mony, coming  as  it  does  to  men  and  women  all  over  the  world  when 
they  hear  this  gospel  and  supplicate  God  for  his  spirit,  we  would  not 
be  what  we  are  today — a  united  people,  one  in  heart  and  soul,  one  with 
God  and  one  with  our  Savior. 

That  God  our  heavenly  Father  may  help  us  to  be  loyal  and  true  to 
him  and  that  we  may  ever  show  by  our  faithfulness,  by  our  honesty  to 
men  and  women,  and  by  the  uprightness  of  our  lives  that  we  are  in 
very  deed  the  servants  and  handmaidens  of  the  living  God,  striving  for 
the  spread  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  is  my  earnest  prayer. 


I  leave  my  blessing  with  the  people  who  have  assembled  in  this 
conference,  and  with  all  Israel,  as  well  as  the  honest  the  world  over.  I 


SOURCE  OF  OUR  POWER,  SUCCESS  AND  UNITY 


A  PRAYER  FOR  THE  PEOPLE  AND  THE  LEADERS 


152 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


pray  God  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  to  bless  the  president  of  the 
United  States  of  America,  to  bless  his  cabinet,  to  bless  the  senators,  to 
bless  the  representatives,  to  bless  those  who  stand  at  the  head  of  all  the 
states  of  our  great  country,  that  they  may  supplicate  their  God  and  their 
Redeemer  for  guidance,  so  that  this  country  may  in  very  deed  be  under 
the  guidance  of  the  Creator  of  the  universe.  This  is  my  prayer,  and  I 
ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  'choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Guide  us,  O  thou  great 
Jehovah." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  William  H.  Gallahan  presi- 
dent of  the  Wayne  stake  of  Zion,  and  the  conference  adjourned  for  six 
months. 


President  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing,  assisted  by  B. 
Cecil  Gates.  Professor  John  J.  McCiefiati  played  the  accompaniment-, 
interludes,  etc.,  on  „the  great  organ,  assisted  by  Edward  P.  Kimball, 
Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Alexander  Shreiner,  and  Frank  W.  Asper. 

Stenographic  reports  of  the  discourses  were  made  in  the  Tabernacle 
by  Franklin  W.  Otterstrom,  assisted  by  Joseph  Anderson ;  and  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  by  Frederick  G.  Barker. 

:  =-  Edward  H.  Anderson,  clerk  of  the  conference. 


INDEX 

Authorities  Present   1 

Authorities  of  the  Church,  General  .149 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J  129 

Preaching  the  Gospel  and  the  Gathering,  129— Responsibility  of 
the  Church  in  Missionary  Work,  131— The  Splendid  Record  of 
the  Past,  131— The  Labors  Ahead  for  the  Future,  132— Mature 
Men  As  Well  As  the  Young  Must  prepare,  133— The  Times  of  the 
Gentiles,  133— The  Great  Object  in  Sending  Missionaries,  134 — 
Duty  of  Quorums  and  Wards  in  Mission  Work,  134 — The  Use  of 
Short-Term  Missions,  135— The  Judgments  of  God,  135— A  Love 
for  the  Souls  of  Men,  135. 


Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0   78 

Blood,  Elder  Henry  H   58 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A    55 

Cannon,  Elder  Hugh  J   57 

Clawson,  Elder  Rudger   60 


Two  Important  Doctrines,  60 — Greater  and  Lesser  Laws,  60 — 
As  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  61 — Its  Spiritual  and  Temporal 
Character,  61 — The  Promise  is  Sure,  62 — Concerning  the  Use  of 
Tobacco,  62 — The  Law  of  Revenue  for  the  Church,  63. 


General  Authorities  Present   1 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  1,  149 

General  Officers  of  the  Church  1,  149 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 


Financial  Statement,  2 — Social  Statistics,  3 — President  C.  W.  Pen- 
rose Seriously  111,  3— A  Mission  Home  in  Salt  Lake  City,  3— 
Changes  in  Stakes,  3 — Missionary  Work,  4 — President  Grant's 
Tour  of  Missions,  6 — Absolute  Faith  in  Jesus  Christ,  7 — The 
Word  of  Wisdom,  9— The  Promise,  9— An  Illustration  of  the 
Destroyer  Rebuked,  9— Tithes  and  Real  Prosperity,  10— Our 
Religion  the  Truth,  10 — Closing  Testimony,  11. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J:   52 

Parley  P.  Pratt's  Prophecy  Being  Fulfilled,  52— Elder  Reed 
Smoot's  Health  and  Labors,  76— Presentation  of  the  General 
Authorities  and  Officers,  149— Closing  Remarks,  151— Source  of 
Our  Power,  Success  and  Unity,  151— A  Prayer  for  the  People  and 
.the  Leaders,  151. 

Hart,  Elder  Charles  H   80 

Hart,  Elder  John  W  124 


154 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Ivins,  President  Anthony  W   42 

Do  You  Believe  th.e  Prophets?,  42— Need  of  Knowing  the  Hand- 
Dealings  of  God  with  Man,  43 — Looking  Back  Four  Thousand 
Years,  43 — The  Promise  to  Ahraham,  43 — God's  Promise  Never 
Fails,  44 — The  History  of  Israel  and  the  Story  of  Joseph,  44 — 
The  Day  of  the  Prophets,  45 — The  Dissolution  of  Israel,  45 — The 
Christian  Era  Ushered  In,  46— The  Fate  of  the  House  of  Israel 
Foretold,  46 — Israel  Not  Forsaken  of  the  Lord  Shall  be  Gathered 
Again,  46 — Christ's  Promise  to  Israel  Prior  to  His  Crucifixion, 
47 — The  Blessings  of  Jacob,  48 — The  Destiny  of  Israel  Plainly 
Indicated,  49 — The  Work  Begun  in  This  Dispensation,  49 — The 
Jews  to  be  Restored  to  the  Promised  Land,  49 — The  Great  War 
and  British  Protectorate,  50 — Interest  of  the  Jews  in  the  Restora- 
tion, 50 — What  Has  Been  Accomplished,  50 — The  Movement  Must 
Elicit  Praise  and  Sympathy,  51 — The  Hand  of  the  Lord  In  It,  51 
— The  Lord  Will  Use  the  Nations  to  Accomplish  His  Purpose,  51 

Jenson,  Elder  Andrew  104 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden  118 

Kirkman,  Elder  Lawrence  G  145 

Knight,  Elder  John  M   35 

Larsen,  Elder  James  B.. .,  ,.  . .  .148 

Lesueur,  Elder  James  W  127 

Lund,  Elder  A.  William  /  101 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R  114 

A  Fundamental  Teaching,  114 — Fiftieth  Anniversary  of  the  Y.  M. 
M.  I.  A.,  114 — An  Experience,  115— M.  I.  A.  Objectives,  115— A 
People  of  Sterling  Worth  Produced,  116 — Thrift  and  Financial 
Success,  116 — Automobiles  and  Success,  117 — Qualities  Required 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  117 — Knowledge  Must  be  Followed  by 
Works  and  Honor,  118. 

McKay,  Elder  David  0   11 

The  Spirit  of  Oneness  and  Love,  11 — Appeal  for  an  Honest  Hear- 
ing, 11 — Ignorance  the  Cause  of  Misjudgment,  12— -In  Spite  of 
All,  the  Work  of  God  is  Growing  in  Europe,  13 — Growth  in  Ger- 
many by  Leaps  and  Bounds,  13 — The  First  Class  Press  More 
Favorable,  14 — Our  Elders  Teach  the  Fundamentals  of  Christ- 
ianity, 14 — Testimony,  15 

McMurrin,  Elder  Joseph  W  140 

Neff,  Elder  Eugene  J   97 

Nelson,  Elder  Taylor  ,  123 

Nibley,  Elder  Charles  W   22 

Oveson,  Elder  Lars  126 

Payne,  Elder  Harry  L  , ...  147 


INDEX 


155 


Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L   30 

Quinney,  Elder  Joseph,  Jr   83 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   69 

In  Harmony  With  the  Spirit  of  the  Conference,  69 — Love  of  God 
the  First  Great  Commandment,  70 — Love  of  Fellowmen  the  Sec- 
ond Great  Commandment,  70 — The  Example  of  Paul,  70 — Im- 
pressed with  the  Great  Numbers  of  the  Saints,  71 — Temple  Work 
the  Past  Year — Its  Importance,  71 — An  Evidence  of  the  Faith  and 
Devotion  of  the  Saints,  71 — As  to  Matters  Financial,  72. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   32 

The  Attitude  and  Spirit  of  Our  People,  32 — Great  by  Process  of 
Natural  Selection,  33 — In  What  We  Are  Great  as  a  People,  33— 
In  What  We  are  Rich  as  a  People,  34 — Our  Tremendous  Respon- 
sibility, 35. 

Roberts,  Elder  B.  H   38 

Smith,  Elder  David  A  112 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   64 

How  Marvelous  Are  the  Works  of  God,  64 — Gratitude  For  Our 
Many  Blessings,  64 — Grateful  for  a  Living  Testimony,  65 — The 
Faithless  Condition  of  the  World,  66 — Call  to  Repentance,  66 — 
The  Gospel  a  Panacea  for  the  Ills  of  Mankind,  68. 

Smith,  Elder  Hyrum  G  136 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   73 

In  Defense  of  the  Mission  of  Jesus  Christ,  73 — Prophecy  Concern- 
ing Conditions  That  Would  Prevail,  73 — The  Mission  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  73 — Concerning  Doubts  and  Doubting,  74 — 
Meaning  of  Sacrifice,  76. 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed   52 

The  Greatest  Joy  of  Life,  53 — What  it  Means  to  Live  the 
Gospel,  53 — The  Burdens  of  Debt,  53 — Idleness  Condemned,  53 — 
How  to  Reach  Happiness  and  Contentment,  54 — Meaning  and 
Necessity  of  Thrift,  54— Waste  the  Enemy  of  Thrift  and  Pro- 
gress, 54 — A  Story  of  Lincoln  as  an  Illustration,  55 — Where  Our 
Danger  Lies,  55. 

Taylor  Elder  John  H   89 

Wells,  Elder  John   86 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   91 

Whitney,  Elder  Orson  F   15 

Priesthood  Conventions,  15 — A  God  of  Miracles,  16 — Signs  to 
Follow  Belief,  16 — Higher  Criticism's  Attitude,  17 — Illustrative 
Anecdotes,  17 — Not  Contrary  to  Law,  18 — Carlyie  on  Natural 
Laws,  18 — Elisha  and  the  Ax,  19  — Moses  and  the  Red  Sea,  19 — 
Joshua  and  the  Sun,  19 — What  Are  Miracles,  20 — Modern  In- 


156 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


•stances,  20 — Healing  Self-Administered,  21 — The  Greater  Sus- 
pends the  Lesser,  21 — All  Things  Possible  to  Them  that  Believe,. 
22. 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A  

God  Guides  and  Directs  This  People,  26 — The  True  Meaning  of 
Life,  27 — Uncertainty  of  the  Meaning  of  Life  a  Cause  of  Wicked- 
ness, 27 — Revealed  Religion  Gives  the  Interpretation,  27 — The 
Great    Principle    of    Eternal    Progress,  28 — Obedience    to  Law, 

28 —  Sincerity  a  Dominant  Trait  in  the  Church  and  Its  Leaders, 

29 —  Joy  Comes  by  Obeying  the  Will  of  God,  29. 

Young,  Elder  Brigham  S  


lllllIBtllCaiillllllllllCaillllEIllIl  ICa       II  lllUi  11111  III  II 1  iC3  II I II I II I II EC3 II  ■  III  11911 IC211 II  EllllllIC3llllllIllllIEail_^ 


Articles  of  Faith 

BY  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

New  Edition 

Beautiful  Blue  Cloth  Binding.. ..$1.00  Postpaid 

Black  Morocco    2.50 

Mission  Edition — Brown  Cloth..    .50  " 


iiiiiimiMiiMHiiiuumimMmiiMMimiiimiiiiiiinmiinMmiiMiiiMMiiMiMiiimmniiimiiiiiiiii  111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111  — 

—  n 

q  = 

I               A  NEW  BOOK  I 

u  — 

That  treats  Church  History  in  a  manner  to  interest  s§ 
=         hoys  and  girls,  a  hook  that  stimulates  faith  in  the 

=         gospel,  and  respect  for  Church  leaders,  is  "OUR  E 

|         CHURCH  AND  PEOPLE,"  by  John  Henry  Evans,  | 

3         beautifully  bound  in  gold-embossed  green  cloth —  □ 

§j         Price  $1.25  postpaid.  =§ 

I        DESERET  BOOK  I 

j            COMPANY  j 

—  E> 

44  East  South  Temple                        Salt  Lake  City  = 

1                                  P.  0.  Box  1793  1 

=  5 

i^icsiiiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiEcaiiiiiitiin^ 


