Om.  diwulhsid.  3>i$Jbwdh, 
SEMI-ANNUAL 

COMICE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

♦ 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Odtobsx  6,  7atuL8,  19W 

With  Report  of  Discourses 

Published  by  Ik* 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Printed  In  (tie  United  States  of  Aateffce 


Historian's  Office  Library 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 

Res 


FEDERATION 


M20U.1 

The  latest  edition  comes  to  you  in  four  different  bindings.  Of  course  the  text 
remains  the  same. 

Missionary  Edition    50c — by  mail  60c 

Cloth  Binding,  Embossed  $1.50 

Full  Morocco   _  $3.50 

JjwifL  (plowJboj^  to  (pJwph&L 

AND 

Vybih&L  SintisiA.  fiwrn.  ihn  (Book  W.&wwn, 

By  WILLIAM  A.  MORTON 

This  delightful  volume  republished  as  a  reiteration  of  the  stories  that  children 
love  to  hear  and  to  read. 

Price  in  Cloth  „  $1.25 

Jfaij^  to  Jh&oh/p^ 

By  PARLEY  P.  PRATT 
(Reprint  warranted  by  demand) 

"Aims  to  embody  in  a  concise  and  somewhat  original  manner  and  style, 
a  general  view  of  the  Science  of  Theology  as  gathered  from  revelation,  history, 
prophecy,  reason  and  analogy.'* 

Price    _  $1.00 

dUAi&iy*  ofL  J  Jul  tfhwtch. 

COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH 
Presented  in  6  volumes 

Price    $25.00 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY  10.  UTAH 


The  One  Hundred  Fifteenth  Semi-Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Fifteenth  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in  the  great 
Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday, 
October  6,  7,  and  8,  1944. 

Sessions  of  the  Conference  were  held  at  10  a.m.  and  2  p.m., 
Friday;  10  a.  m.,  2  and  7  p.  m.,  Saturday;  and  10  a.  m.  and  2  p.  m., 
Sunday. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  Radio  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City 
and  Station  KSUB  of  Cedar  City,  Utah,  the  proceedings  of  the  Con- 
ference, with  the  exception  of  the  Saturday  evening  meeting,  were 
broadcast  for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

President  Heber  J,  Grant  was  present  and  presided  at  the  Friday 
morning  and  Saturday  morning  sessions.  President  J.  Reuben  Clark, 
Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  presided  at  the  other 
sessions  in  President  Grant's  absence.  President  David  O.  McKay, 
Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  conducted  the  services  at 
all  of  the  sessions. 

Owing  to  conditions  incident  to  the  War  emergency,  the  general 
public  were  not  invited  to  attend  the  Conference.  Those  present  con- 
sisted of  the  following : 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  Present 

The  First  Presidency:  Heber  J.  Grant,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and 
David  O.  McKay. 

The  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  George  Albert  Smith, 
George  F.  Richards,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Stephen  L  Richards, 
John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Charles  A.  Callis,  A.  E.  Bowen, 
Harold  B.  Lee,  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  and  Mark 
E.  Petersen. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Joseph  F.  Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Marion  G. 
Romney,  Thomas  E.  McKay,  Clifford  E.  Young,  *  ,  and  Nicholas 
G.  Smith. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy:  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine 
R.  Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  John  H.  Taylor,  Rufus  K.  Hardy, 
Richard  L.  Evans  and  Oscar  A.  Kirkham. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric:  LeGrand  Richards,  Marvin  O.  Ashton, 
and  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin. 


*  Elder  Alma  Sonne  was  absent,  attending  stake  conference  in  Hawaii. 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  6  First  Dag 

Other  Authorities  and  Officers  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  A. 
William  Lund,  assistant. 

Members  of  the  General  Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 

Commissioner,  seminary  supervisors,  and  members  of  the  Church 
Board  of  Education. 

Superintendency  and  priesthood  members  of  the  general  board 
of  the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union. 

Superintendency  and  members  of  general  board  of  the  Y.M.M. 

Genealogical  Society  general  board. 
Temple  Presidencies. 

Presidencies  of  stakes,  former  presidencies  of  stakes,  stake  clerks, 
former  stake  clerks,  former  presidents  of  missions,  patriarchs,  high 
councilmen,  presidencies  of  high  priests  quorums,  presidents  of  seven- 
ties quorums,  presidencies  of  elders  quorums,  bishoprics  of  wards  and 
ward  clerks,  presidencies  of  independent  branches  in  organized  stakes, 
presidents  of  dependent  branches  in  organized  stakes,  presidents  of 
stake  missions,  chairmen  of  ward  groups  of  high  priests,  seventies, 
and  elders. 

Mission  presidents:  David  A.  Smith,  Temple  Square;  Roy  W. 
Doxey,  Eastern  States;  William  H.  Reeder,  Jr.,  New  England;  David 
I.  Stoddard,  Northern  States;  William  L.  Killpack,  North  Central 
States;  Thomas  C.  Romney,  Central  States;  Heber  Meeks,  South- 
ern States;  William  L.  Warner,  Texas;  Graham  H.  Doxey,  East 
Central  States;  Elbert  R.  Curtis,  Western  States;  Elijah  Allen,  Cal- 
ifornia; German  E.  Ellsworth,  Northern  California;  Samuel  E.  Bring- 
hurst,  Northwestern  States;  Octave  W.  Ursenbach,  Canada;  Walter 
Miller,  Western  Canada;  Arwell  L.  Pierce,  Mexico;  Lorin  F.  Jones, 
Spanish-American;  Ralph  William  Evans,  Navajo-Zuni. 

FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  opening  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  10  o'clock 
a.  m.,  Friday,  October  6. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  was  present  and  presided  at  this  session 
of  the  Conference.  President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in 
the  First  Presidency,  conducted  the  exercises. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the  115th  Semi-Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  the 
sixth  General  Conference  of  the  Church  to  which  attendance  has 


REPORT  OF  CHANGES 


3 


been  restricted  to  official  representatives  of  the  Priesthood  because 
of  the  present  worldwide  holocaust. 

Please  be  in  your  seats  at  ten  minutes  before  the  time  of  be- 
ginning in  attending  the  sessions  that  will  follow. 

All  former  mission  presidents  who  are  in  attendance  will 
please  take  seats  immediately  below  the  rostrum. 

Members  of  the  Church  and  his  friends  generally  will  be 
pleased  and  thankful  to  learn  that  President  Grant  is  present  and 
presiding  at  this  conference.  All  proceedings  will  be  conducted 
under  his  direction. 

There  are  present  besides  President  Grant  on  the  rostrum, 
the  two  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  all  the  members  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church,  the  Assist- 
ants to  the  Twelve,  (excepting  Elder  Alma  Sonne  who  is  absent 
on  a  special  appointment),  all  the  presidents  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy,  (including  President  Hardy,  who  has  been  ill.  We 
are  glad  to  have  him  with  us),  also  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  and 
presiding  officers  in  stakes,  quorums  and  missions  throughout  the 
Church.  Nearly  every  stake  in  the  Church  is  represented. 

Due  to  the  courtesy  of  radio  station  KSL,  the  proceedings  of 
this  meeting  are  being  broadcast,  as  will  also  the  services  of  all 
sessions  that  will  follow,  excepting  Saturday  night.  The  broad- 
cast is  also  being  given  over  KSUP  at  Cedar  City,  which  will 
carry  all  sessions  that  go  over  KSL. 

The  singing  will  be  by  the  congregation,  composed,  as  al- 
ready stated,  of  several  hundred  members  of  the  Priesthood.  Elder 
Richard  P.  Condie  will  direct  the  music  this  morning,  and  Elder 
Frank  W.  Asper  is  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  open  the  conference  by  singing,  "Come  Ye  Chil- 
dren of  the  Lord,"  number  15  in  your  Song  Folder,  number  238 
in  the  Hymn  Book. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Come  Ye  Children  of  the 
Lord." 

Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  President  of  the  Logan  Temple, 
offered  the  invocation. 

Singing  by  the  congregation,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a 
Prophet,"  (Song  Folder  No.  8,  L.D.S.  Hymn  Book  No.  196). 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS,  STAKE,  WARD,  AND 
BRANCH  ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  LAST  APRIL 
CONFERENCE,  1944 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  read  the  fol- 
lowing report  of  changes  : 

Special  Appointments: 

Verna  W.  Goddard  appointed  first  counselor  to  Sister  Lucy  G. 
Cannon  in  the  General  Presidency  of  the  Young  Women's  Mutual 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  First  Day 

Improvement  Association,  succeeding  Helen  Spencer  Williams  who 
was  released  because  of  ill  health. 

Lucy  Taylor  Andersen  appointed  second  counselor  in  the  Gen- 
eral Presidency  of  the  Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  As- 
sociation, suceeding  Verna  W.  Goddard  in  this  position. 

New  Mission  Presidents: 

Samuel  E.  Bringhurst  appointed  to  succeed  Desla  S.  Bennion  as 
president  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission. 

Castle  H.  Murphy  appointed  to  succeed  Edward  L.  Clissold  as 
president  of  the  Central  Pacific  Mission  ( formerly  Japanese  Mission ) . 

Edgar  B.  Mitchell,  Jr.,  appointed  to  succeed  Ernest  C.  Rossiter 
as  president  of  the  Tahitian  Mission. 

A.  Reed  Halversen  appointed  to  succeed  Matthew  Cowley  as 
president  of  the  New  Zealand  Mission. 

W.  Ernest  Young  appointed  to  succeed  James  L.  Barker  as 
president  of  the  Argentine  Mission. 

New  Temple  President: 

Ralph  E.  Woolley  appointed  to  succeed  Edward  L.  Clissold  as 
president  of  the  Hawaiian  Temple. 

Stake  Presidents  Chosen: 

Leland  W.  Redd  chosen  president  of  the  San  Juan  Stake  to 
succeed  Joseph  &.  Harris. 

Preal  George  chosen  president  of  the  Millard  Stake  to  succeed 
Arthur  C.  Brown. 

Merrill  N.  Warnick  chosen  president  of  the  Timpanogos  Stake 
to  succeed  Wilford  W.  Warnick. 

Milton  F.  Hartvigsen  chosen  president  of  the  Bannock  Stake  to 
succeed  M.  Ezra  Sorensen. 

William  G.  Barton  chosen  president  of  the  South  Sanpete  Stake 
to  succeed  Leland  E.  Anderson. 

W.  Hazen  Hillyard  chosen  president  of  the  Smithfield  Stake  to 
succeed  A.  Reed  Halversen. 

Ferrin  L.  Manwill  chosen  president  of  the  Blaine  Stake  to 
succeed  William  L.  Adamson. 

New  Wards  Organized: 

Pocatello  Tenth  Ward,  Pocatello  Stake,  formed  by  a  division 
of  the  Pocatello  Third  Ward. 

Pocatello  Eleventh  Ward,  Pocatello  Stake,  formed  by  a  division 
of  the  Pocatello  First  Ward. 

Pocatello  Twelfth  Ward,  Pocatello  Stake,  formed  by  a  divi- 
sion of  the  Pocatello  Sixth  Ward. 

Evanston  Third  Ward,  Woodruff  Stake,  formed  by  a  division 
of  the  Evanston  First  Ward. 

East  Richmond  Ward,  Oakland  Stake,  formed  by  a  division 
of  the  Richmond  Ward. 


REPORT  OF  CHANGES  5 

East  Layton  Ward,  North  Davis  Stake,  formed  by  a  division 
of  the  Layton  Ward. 

Clearfield  First  Ward,  North  Davis  Stake,  formed  by  a  divi- 
sion of  the  Clearfield  Ward. 

Clearfield  Second  Ward,  North  Davi  Stake,  formed  by  a  divi- 
sion of  the  Clearfield  Ward. 

Independent  Branches  Organized: 

Vanport  Branch,  Portland  Stake. 
Lockerby  Branch,  San  Juan  Stake. 
Fort  Hall  Branch,  Pocatello  Stake. 
New  Westminster  Branch,  Seattle  Stake. 
Parma  Branch,  Weiser  Stake. 

Wards  Made  Independent  Branches: 

Mammoth  Branch,  Santaquin-Tintic  Stake,  formerly  Mammoth 
Ward. 

Ward  Nantes  Changed: 

Las  Vegas  Ward,  Moapa  Stake,  name  changed  to  Las  Vegas 
First  Ward. 

North  Las  Vegas  Ward,  Moapa  Stake,  name  changed  to  Las 
Vegas  Second  Ward. 

Independent  Branches  Made  Wards: 

Hawthorne  Ward,  Reno  Stake,  formerly  Hawthorne  Branch. 
Renton  Ward,  Seattle  Stake,  formerly  Renton  Branch. 

Branch  Transferred: 

Callao  Branch,  Nevada  Stake,  transferred  to  Deseret  Stake. 

Those  Who  Have  Passed  Away: 

Luacine  Annetta  Savage  Clark,  wife  of  President  J.  Reuben 
Clark,  Jr. 

Hans  Rancie  Porter,  President  of  the  Redlands  Independent 
Branch,  San  Bernardino  Stake. 

Horace  S.  Ensign,  formerly  president  of  the  Japanese  Mission, 
and  also  former  secretary  of  the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  and 
member  of  the  general  board. 

Heber  S.  Allen,  president  of  the  Taylor  Stake  for  34  years  be- 
fore his  release. 

Bishop  James  Walter  Low,  Glendale  East  Ward,  San  Fernando 
Stake. 


President  David  O.  McKay:  We  shall  now  be  favored  by  a  mes- 
sage from  President  Heber  J.  Grant.  Elder  Joseph  Anderson  will 
read  the  message. 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  6  First  Deg 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Again,  my  brethren,  I  am  privileged  to  be  with  you  in  another 
general  conference  of  the  Church,  and  I  bear  testimony  that  I  know 
it  is  by  the  healing  and  sustaining  power  of  God  that  I  am  here.  In 
another  six  or  seven  weeks,  the  Lord  being  willing,  I  shall  begin  the 
eighty-ninth  year  of  my  life;  and  shall  have  completed  sixty-two  years 
since  I  became  one  of  the  apostles;  and  shall  have  served  twenty-six 
years  as  President  of  the  Church.  In  all  this,  and  in  much  else,  the 
Lord  has  blessed  me  richly;  and  I  am  grateful  I  can  say  that  I  am 
better  now  than  I  have  been  during  some  of  the  weeks  and  months 
just  passed.  I  come  to  the  office  nearly  every  day,  and  I  refrain  from 
speaking  to  you  now  only  on  counsel  of  my  doctor,  whose  advice 
I  usually  take. 

I  thank  the  Latter-day  Saints  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  for 
their  faith  and  for  their  prayers  in  supplicating  God  in  my  behalf, 
for  his  spirit,  for  health,  for  vigor  in  body  and  mind.  I  am  here  as  a 
witness  that  God  does  hear  and  answer  prayer,  and  I  pray  that  his 
blessings  may  be  upon  Israel  and  upon  a  11  honest  men  everywhere. 

Blessing  to  Those  Who  Work  in  the  Church 

I  desire  especially  to  extend  my  blessing  to  all  the  men  and  wom- 
en who  preside  in  all  the  stakes  of  Zion  throughout  the  Church,  in 
all  the  missions,  in  all  the  wards,  in  all  the  quorums  of  the  priesthood, 
and  in  all  the  auxiliary  organizations.  I  am  convinced  beyond  the 
shadow  of  a  doubt  that  there  cannot  be  found  in  any  part  of  the  world 
other  men  and  women  giving  more  unselfishly  of  their  time,  of  their 
talents,  and  of  the  best  that  is  in  them,  for  the  salvation  of  the  souls 
of  men.  I  am  satisfied  that  there  are  no  other  people  who  are  devoting 
more  of  their  time,  of  their  money,  of  their  thoughts,  and  of  their  very 
being  for  the  advancement  of  God's  work  at  home  and  abroad,  than 
are  the  Latter-day  Saints.  And  with  all  the  power  that  God  has  given 
me.  I  desire  to  bless  the  men  and  women  who  are  thus  giving  their 
time  and  thought  and  are  setting  examples  that  are  worthy  of  imita- 
tion, not  only  to  those  over  whom  they  preside,  but  to  all  men.  Every 
man  and  woman  who  is  laboring  for  the  salvation  of  the  souls  of  men 
and  keeping  the  commandments  of  God  is  entitled  to  be  blessed,  and 
I  pray  God  that  his  blessings  may  come  to  them. 

Faith  and  Protection  of  Our  Youth 

Particularly  in  this  critical  time,  do  I  pray  for  the  youth  of  this 
generation,  and  for  all  those  who  labor  for  and  with  them,  and  who 
are  responsible  for  their  instruction.  Their  lives  are  beset  by  many 
temptations  and  evils  and  designs  by  those  whom  the  Lord  has  chosen 
to  refer  to  as  "conspiring  men."  I  pray  that  those  who  are  at  home 
and  those  who  are  away,  in  the  armed  forces  and  elsewhere,  will  be 
kept  from  evil  in  all  its  forms,  by  the  prayers  and  righteous  example  of 
their  parents,  by  remembrance  of  the  teachings  in  their  homes  and 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


church,  by  their  own  faithfulness  and  prayerfulness,  and  by  the  pro- 
tecting influence  of  the  angels  of  heaven. 

There  comes  to  mind  an  experience  in  connection  with  my  broth- 
er, Fred,  after  our  father  died.  Because  of  the  mistreatment  of  a  step- 
father, and  neglect,  as  a  young  man  my  brother  ran  away,  and  I  was 
told  by  Brother  Marriner  W.  Merrill,  at  that  time  bishop  of  Richmond, 
Utah,  that  the  night  after  my  brother  ran  away,  he,  Brother  Merrill, 
went  to  bed  rebellious.  He  said:  "I  turned  to  my  wife,  Sister  Merrill, 
and  said,  'I  feel  that  the  Lord  should  have  inspired  me  to  take  that 
boy  away  from  the  man  who  has  reared  him.  He  has  abused  and 
beaten  him.  His  father  is  dead,  and  his  mother  has  left  the  Church 
and  now  he  has  gone  out  into  the  world  with  no  hope  that  he  will 
ever  come  back  again.'  " 

And  that  night,  so  Brother  Merrill  told  me,  he  had  a  dream  in 
which  he  saw  my  brother  in  all  kinds  of  wicked  company  in  many 
different  states,  and  he  saw  that  a  light  surrounded  him.  In  the  dream 
he  said:  "What  does  that  light  mean?"  And  a  voice  answered:  "That 
is  the  influence  that  a  faithful,  God-fearing  and  God-serving  father 
can  have  over  a  son  to  keep  him  from  going  astray,  and  to  eventually 
bring  him  back  to  the  truth." 

Years  later  when  my  brother  did  come  back  and  joined  the 
Church,  as  I  related  here  last  conference,  he  fulfilled  Brother  Merrill's 
dream,  because  Brother  Merrill  said  that  he  saw  him  laboring  all  over 
the  Church,  bringing  wayward  boys  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth,  and 
he  did  labor  from  Canada  to  Mexico  in  that  service. 

I  am  sure  that  we  need  a  light  to  surround  our  boys  and  girls 
in  this  day,  and  I  pray  that  the  protecting  influence  of  faithful,  God- 
fearing, God-serving  parents  may  follow  them  and  keep  them  wher- 
ever they  go.  I  believe  that  with  the  faithfulness  and  obedience  of 
parents  and  proper  influences  in  the  home,  and  with  proper  instruc- 
tion and  example  to  youth,  we  can  keep  them  from  all  the  temptations 
of  the  evil  one. 

I  sympathize  with  our  young  people  because  of  these  tempta- 
tions that  beset  them.  I  urge  them,  as  I  always  have,  to  live  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  fully.  In  that  way  they  will  have  health  and  happi- 
ness and  will  meet  with  success  in  this  life  and  will  have  an  eternity 
of  joy  in  store  for  them  in  the  life  to  come.  I  bless  them  with 
courage  to  meet  the  problems  that  lie  ahead. 

Concerning  Virtue 

I  want  to  say  also  at  this  time  that  the  crying  evil  of  the,  age  is 
lack  of  virtue.  There  is  but  one  standard  of  morality  in  the  Church 
of  Christ.  We  have  been  taught,  thousands  of  us  who  have  been 
reared  in  this  Church  from  our  childhood  days,  that  second  only  to 
murder  is  the  sin  of  losing  our  virtue;  and  I  want  to  say  to  the 
fathers  and  to  the  mothers,  and  to  the  sons  and  daughters,  in  our 
Primary,  in  our  Mutual  Improvement  Associations,  in  our  seminaries 
and  institutes,  in  Sunday  School,  in  the  Relief  Society  and  in  all  of 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  6 


First  Day 


our  Priesthood  quorums — I  want  it  understood  that  the  use  of  liquor 
and  tobacco  is  one  of  the  chief  means  in  the  hands  of  the  adversary 
whereby  he  is  enabled  to  lead  boys  and  girls  from  virtue. 

Nearly  always  those  who  lose  their  virtue  first  partake  of 
those  things  that  excite  passions  within  them  or  lower  their  resistance 
and  becloud  their  minds.  Partaking  of  tobacco  and  liquor  is  calculated 
to  make  them  a  prey  to  those  things  which,  if  indulged  in,  are  worse 
than  death  itself.  There  is  no  true  Latter-day  Saint  who  would  not 
rather  bury  a  son  or  a  daughter  than  to  have  him  or  her  lose  his  or 
her  virtue — realizing  that  virtue  is  of  more  value  than  anything 
else  in  all  the  wide  world. 

The  devil  is  ready  to  blind  our  eyes  with  the  things  of  this 
world,  and  he  would  gladly  rob  us  of  eternal  life,  the  greatest  of  all 
gifts.  But  it  is  not  given  to  the  devil,  and  no  power  will  ever  be 
given  to  him,  to  overthrow  any  Latter-day  Saint  who  is  keeping  the 
commandments  of  God.  There  is  no  power  given  to  the  adversary 
of  men's  souls  to  destroy  us  if  we  are  doing  our  duty.  But  if  we  are 
not  absolutely  honest  with  God,  then  we  let  the  bars  down,  then 
we  have  destroyed  part  of  the  fortifications  by  which  we  are  pro- 
tected, and  the  devil  may  come  in.  But  no  man  who  was  chaste  and 
who  was  keeping  the  other  commandments  of  the  Lord  has  ever  lost 
the  testimony  of  the  gospel;  no  man  who  had  the  knowledge  of  the 
truth  has  ever  turned  to  the  right  or  to  the  left,  who  was  attending 
to  his  duties,  who  was  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  who  was 
paying  his  tithing,  who  was  responding  to  the  calls  and  duties  of  his 
office  and  calling  in  the  Church. 

More  than  ever  before,  we  as  a  people  are  scattered  abroad 
throughout  the  world,  we  carry  upon  our  shoulders  the  reputation, 
so  to  speak,  of  the  Church,  every  one  of  us.  And  the  young  men 
and  young  women  of  today  who  think  they  are  being  smart  by  get- 
ting a  little  wine  and  a  little  liquor  in  their  homes,  and  doing  that 
which  the  Lord  tells  them  not  to  do,  are  laying  a  foundation  that 
will  lead  to  their  destruction  eventually.  They  cannot  go  on 
breaking  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  without  getting  into  the 
rapids.  And  what  are  the  rapids?  The  rapids  of  moderate  drinking, 
nine  times  out  of  ten,  lead  to  excessive  drinking,  and  excessive  drink- 
ing leads  to  the  destruction  of  body  and  of  mind  and  of  faith. 

Any  Latter-day  Saint  who  actually  believes  in  the  command- 
ments contained  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  must  have  no  regard 
for  advancement  in  life  when  he  fails  to  keep  what  is  known  as 
the  Word  of  Wisdom.  There  is  absolutely  no  benefit  to  any  human 
being  derived  from  breaking  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  but  there  is 
everything  for  his  benefit,  morally,  intellectually,  physically  and 
spiritually  in  obeying  it. 

What  does  the  Lord  say  to  those  who  obey  his  commandments? 

And  all  saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking 
in  obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel  and 
marrow  to  their  bones; 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures; 

And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint. 
And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying  angel  shall 
pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them. 

May  every  father  and  mother  so  order  their  lives  that  their 
example  will  be  an  inspiration  to  their  children,  and  may  all  realize 
that  every  Latter-day  Saint  carries,  to  a  certain  extent,  upon  his  or 
her  shoulders  the  reputation  of  the  Church  of  Christ.  We  are  try- 
ing to  raise  our  children  to  be  God-fearing,  and  to  live  lives  worthy 
of  the  imitation  of  all  men.  May  we  read  the  revelations  of  the  Lord 
Almighty  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  that  have  been  given  to  us,  as 
contained  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants;  may  we  read  them  with  a 
prayerful  and  a  humble  heart,  seeking  God  for  power  and  strength 
to  live  them,  whether  we  are  at  home  or  away  from  home;  and  may 
we  listen  and  give  heed  to  the  counsel  of  our  leaders  who  are  with  us 
today,  I  pray  with  all  the  power  that  I  possess. 

The  Power  of  Prayer 

I  have  little  or  no  fear  for  the  boy  or  the  girl,  the  young  man  or 
the  young  woman,  who  honestly  and  conscientiously  supplicates  God 
daily  for  the  guidance  of  his  spirit.  I  am  sure  that  when  temptation 
comes  they  will  have  the  strength  to  overcome  it  by  the  inspiration 
that  shall  be  given  to  them.  Supplicating  the  Lord  for  the  guidance 
of  his  spirit  places  around  us  a  safeguard,  and  if  we  earnestly  and 
honestly  seek  the  guidance  of  the  spirit  of  the  Lord,  I  can  assure  you 
that  we  will  receive  it.  I  am  convinced  that  one  of  the  greatest  and 
one  of  the  best  things  in  all  the  world  to  keep  a  man  true  and  faithful 
in  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  is  to  supplicate  God  secretly 
in  the  name  of  his  Son,  for  the  guidance  of  his  holy  spirit.  I  am  con- 
vinced that  one  of  the  greatest  things  that  can  come  into  any  home 
to  cause  the  boys  and  girls  in  that  home  to  grow  up  in  a  love  of  God, 
and  in  a  love  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  to  have  family  prayer. 

It  is  not  for  the  father' of  the  family  alone  to  pray,  but  for  the 
mother  and  for  the  children  to  do  so  also,  that  they  may  partake  of 
the  spirit  of  prayer,  and  be  in  harmony  with  the  spirit  of  the  Lord. 
I  believe  that  there  are  very  few  who  go  astray,  that  very  few  lose 
their  faith,  who  have  once  had  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel,  and  who 
never  neglect  their  prayers  in  their  families,  and  their  secret  supplica- 
tions to  God. 

But  the  minute  a  man  stops  supplicating  God  for  his  spirit  and 
directions  just  so  soon  he  starts  out  to>  become  a  stranger  to  him  and 
his  works.  When  men  stop  praying  for  God's  spirit,  they  place  con- 
fidence in  their  own  unaided  reason,  and  they  gradually  lose  the  spirit 
of  God,  just  the  same  as  near  and  dear  friends,  by  never  writing  to 
or  visiting  with  each  other,  will  become  strangers.  We  should  all 
pray  that  God  may  never  leave  us  alone  for  a  moment  without  his 
spirit  to  aid  and  assist  us  in  withstanding  sin  and  temptation. 


1 0  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  6  First  Day 

Comfort  to  Those  Who  Mourn 

I  want  to  say  that  my  heart  goes  out  in  the  deepest  sympathy 
and  in  as  deep  and  sincere  a  prayer  as  I  have  ever  offered  for  the  com- 
forting influence  of  the  Lord  to  be  given  to  the  brethren  and  sisters 
who  have  sons  and  brothers  and  fathers  and  husbands  in  the  war  at 
the  present  time.  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  each  and  every  boy 
who  has  gone  into  the  service,  and  that  he  will  help  each  of  them  to 
live  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  so  that  each 
may  have  a  claim  to  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  to  the  full  extent  that 
accords  with  His  wisdom. 

I  am  praying  with  all  my  heart  and  soul  for  the  end  of  this  war 
as  soon  as  the  Lord  can  see  fit  to  have  it  stop.  And  to  those  homes 
that  have  been  sorrowed  by  the  loss  of  loved  ones  through  death, 
may  the  peace  and  understanding  and  comfort  of  our  Father  in  heav- 
en be  there  unfailingly.  And  to  you  who  are  bereaved  by  the  cruelty 
of  war,  I  say,  do  not  look  forward  to  a  life  of  care  and  trouble  and 
anxiety,  but  look  only  to  the  duties  and  responsibilities  of  a  single 
day,  and  by  performing  the  duties  each  day  that  rest  upon  you,  the 
burdens  will  be  lightened  notwithstanding' all  the  sorrow  that  may 
come  into  your  lives  and  the  many  things  that  may  be  hard  for  you  to 
bear.  I  know  the  anguish  of  your  feelings,  and  I  can  say  this  to  you 
out  of  the  sorrows  of  my  own  life.  I  have  been  blessed  with  only 
two  sons.  One  of  them  died  at  five  years  of  age  and  the  other  at 
seven.  My  last  son  died  of  a  hip  disease.  I  had  built  great  hopes 
that  he  would  live  to  spread  the  Gospel  at  home  and  abroad  and  be 
an  honor  to  me.  But  he  was  taken,  as  some  of  your  sons  have  been 
taken.  And  never  in  my  life  am  I  so  grateful  for  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  as  I  am  when  some  of  my  family  or  beloved  friends  are  called 
home  to  their  final  reward.  There  is  nothing  in  the  revelations  of 
God  to  Joseph  Smith  for  which  I  am  more  grateful  than  the  following 
quotations  from  what  is  known  as  "The  Vision,"  namely,  the  76th 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

And  this  is  the  gospel,  the  glad  tidings,  which  the  voice  out  of  the 
heavens  bore  record  unto  us — 

That  he  came  into  the  world,  even  Jesus,  to  be  crucified  for  the  world, 
and  to  sanctify  the  world,  and  to  cleanse  it  from  all  unrighteousness; 

That  through  him  all  might  be  saved  whom  the  Father  had  put  into  his 
power  and  made  by  him; 

Who  glorifies  the  Father,  and  saves  all  the  works  of  his  hands,  except 
those  sons  of  perdition  who  deny  the  Son  after  the  Father  has  revealed  him. 
(Doc.  and  Cov.  76:40-43) 

And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him, 
this  is  the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him:  That  he  lives! 

For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the 
voice  bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father — 

That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were 
created,  and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto 
God.  (Doc.  and  Cov.  76:22-24) 

I  know  as  well  as  I  know  anything  in  this  life  that  Jesus  Christ 
is  in  very  deed  the  Savior  of  mankind,  and  that  God  has  seen  fit  to 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  1 1 


establish  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  upon  the  earth.  I  thank  the  Lord 
that  I  have  an  abiding  knowledge  of  God,  our  Father,  and  Jesus 
Christ,  his  Son,  and  that  I  have  pleasure  in  bearing  witness  to  all 
the  world  of  this  knowledge  that  I  possess. 

Death  has  no  real  terror  to  any  true  Latter-day  Saint.  A  faith- 
ful Latter-day  Saint  has  been  blessed  with  a  testimony  of  the  divin- 
ity of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  and  he  knows  that  when  he 
passes  to  the  other  side  he  will  have  an  eternity  of  joy  and  happiness, 
and  this  I  promise  you — you  who  have  lived  righteously  and  who  offer 
your  lives  in  the  service  of  your  country,  and  you  who  live  righteously 
and  are  left  to  wait,  and  sometimes  to  mourn. 

Freedom  and  the  Constitution 

Every  faithful  Latter-day  Saint  believes  that  the  Constitution 
of  the  United  States  was  inspired  of  God,  and  that  this  choice  land 
and  this  nation  have  been  preserved  until  now  in  the  principles  of 
liberty  under  the  protection  of  God. 

Here  are  some  of  Lincoln's  statements 

"Let  the  people  know  the  truth,  and  the  country  is  safe." 

"Let  none  falter  who  thinks  he  is  right,  and  we  will  succeed." 

"Let  us  dare  to  do  our  duty  as  we  understand  it." 

The  following  quotation  from  Abraham  Lincoln  with  respect 
to  the  observance  of  law  is  also  worth  repeating  often; 

Let  every  American,  every  lover  of  liberty,  every  well  wisher  to  his 
posterity,  swear  by  the  blood  of  the  revolution  never  to  violate,  in  the  least 
particular,  the  laws  of  the  country,  and  never  to  tolerate  their  violation  by 
others.  As  the  patriots  of  seventy-six  did  to  the  support  of  the  Declaration 
of  Independence,  so  to  the  support  of  the  Constitution  and  laws  let  every 
American  pledge  his  life,  his  property,  and  his  sacred  honor.  Let  every 
man  remember  that  to  violate  the  law  is  to  trample  on  the  blood  of  his  fa- 
ther, and  to  tear  the  charter  of  his  own  and  his  children's  liberty.  Let  rever- 
ence for  the  law  be  breathed  by  every  American  mother  to  the  lisping  babe 
that  prattles  on  her  lap.  Let  it  be  taught  in  schools,  in  seminaries,  and  in 
colleges.  Let  it  be  written  in  primers,  in  spelling  books,  and  almanacs. 
Let  it  be  preached  from  the  pulpit,  proclaimed  in  legislative  halls,  and  en- 
forced in  courts  of  justice.  In  short,  let  it  become  the  Political  Religion  of 
the  Nation. 

I  quote  here  two  verses  from  a  declaration  of  the  Church  con- 
tained in  Section  134  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  regarding  our 
belief  in  governments  and  laws  in  general,  as  adopted  by  a  unanimous 
vote  of  a  general  assembly  of  the  Church  over  a  century  ago: 

We  believe  that  governments  were  instituted  of  God  for  the  benefit 
of  man,  and  that  he  holds  men  accountable  for  their  acts  in  relation  to  them, 
both  in  making  laws  and  administering  them  for  the  good  and  safety  of 
society. 

We  believe  that  no  government  can  exist  in  peace,  except  such  laws 
are  framed  and  held  inviolate  as  will  secure  to  each  individual  the  free 
exercise  of  conscience,  the  right  and  control  of  property,  and  the  protection 
of  life. 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  6  First  Dag 


These  principles  are  fundamental  to  our  belief,  fundamental  to 
our  protection.  And  in  the  providences  of  the  Lord,  the  safeguards 
which  have  been  incorporated  into  the  basic  structure  of  this  nation 
are,  if  we  preserve  them,  the  guarantee  of  all  men  who  dwell  here 
against  abuses,  tyrannies,  and  usurpations.  From  my  childhood 
days  I  have  understood  that  we  believe  absolutely  that  the  constitu- 
tion of  our  country  is  an  inspired  instrument  and  that  God  directed 
those  who  created  it  and  those  who  defended  the  independence  of 
this  nation.  Concerning  this  matter  it  is  my  frequent  pleasure  to 
quote  the  statement  by  Joseph  Smith,  regarding  the  Constitution: 

The  Constitution  of  the  United  States  is  a  glorious  standard;  it  is 
founded  in  the  wisdom  of  God.  It  is  a  heavenly  banner;  it  is,  to  all  those 
who  are  privileged  wtih  the  sweets  of  liberty,  like  the  cooling  shades  and 
refreshing  waters  of  a  great  rock  in  a  weary  and  thirsty  land.  It  is  like 
a  great  tree  under  whose  branches  men  from  every  clime  can  be  shielded 
from  the  burning  rays  of  the  sun. 

And  such  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  must  be  to  every 
faithful  Latter-day  Saint  who  lives  under  its  protection.  That  the 
Lord  may  help  him  to  think  straight,  and  to  pursue  a  straight  course 
regardless  of  personal  advantage,  factional  interest,  or  political  per- 
suasion, should  be  the  daily  prayer  of  every  Latter-day  Saint.  I 
counsel  you,  I  urge  you,  I  plead  with  you,  never,  so  far  as  you  have 
voice  or  influence,  permit  any  departure  from  the  principles  of  gov- 
ernment on  which  this  nation  was  founded,  or  any  disregard  of  the 
freedoms  which,  by  the  inspiration  of  God  our  Father,  were  written 
into  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States. 

Eternal  Life  the  Greatest  Prize 

Let  us  realize  that  God  is  mightier  than  all  the  earth.  Let  us 
realize  that  if  we  are  faithful  in  keeping  the  commandments  of  God 
and  cherishing  the  principles  inspired  of  him,  his  promises  will  be 
fulfilled  to  the  very  letter.  For  he  has  said  that  not  one  jot  or  tittle 
shall  fall  to  the  ground  unfulfilled.  The  trouble  is,  the  adversary  of 
men's  souls  blinds  their  minds.  He  throws  dust,  so  to  speak,  in  their 
eyes,  and  they  are  blinded  with  the  things  of  this  world,  and  the 
adversary  obtains  power  over  them,  and  robs  them  of  their  freedom, 
which  is  what  he  tried  to  do  in  the  beginning. 

I  say  to  you,  Latter-day  Saints,  that  the  pearl  of  great  price  is 
life  eternal.  God  has  told  us  that  the  greatest  of  all  the  gifts  he  can 
bestow  upon  man  is  life  eternal.  We  are  laboring  for  that  great  gift, 
and  it  will  be  ours  if  we  keep  the  commandments  of  God.  One  funda- 
mental thing  for  a  Latter-day  Saint  is  to  be  honest.  Another  is  to 
value  his  word  as  faithfully  as  his  bond;  to  make  up  his  mind  that 
under  no  circumstances,  no  matter  how  hard  it  may  be,  by  and  with 
the  help  of  the  Lord,  he  will  dedicate  his  life  and  his  best  energies 
to  making  good  his  promise;  and  that  he  will  not  permit  some  personal 
advantage  to  cause  him  ever  to  compromise  his  principles. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  13 


I  say  to  you  that  it  is  not  an  insignificant  thing  to  hold  the  priest- 
hood of  God — to  have  the  right  to  influence  the  powers  of  the  heav- 
ens for  good;  and  it  is  not  a  slight  thing  for  us  to  neglect  to  honor 
the  priesthood  of  God  in  those  who  preside  over  us,  nor  to  ignore 
them  in  their  counsel.  My  faith  is  such  that  I  could  lay  down  all  that 
I  possess  rather  than  ever  depart  from  the  Latter-day  work.  I  value 
all  things  as  nothing  in  comparison  with  having  the  spirit  of  God 
to  guide  me.  And  I  promise  you,  as  a  servant  of  the  living  God, 
that  every  man  and  woman  who  obeys  the  commandments  of  God 
shall  prosper  in  righteousness,  that  every  promise  made  of  God  shall 
be  fulfilled  upon  their  heads,  and  that  they  will  grow  and  increase 
in  wisdom,  light,  knowledge,  intelligence,  and  above  all,  in  the  testi- 
mony of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  May  God  help  each  and  every  one 
of  us  who  has  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel  to  live  it  that  our  lives  may 
preach  its  truth. 

I  leave  with  you  my  testimony  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet  of  God.  How  do  I 
know"  it?  I  know  it  as  well  as  I  know  that  I  live.  I  know  heat;  I  know 
cold;  I  know  joy,  and  I  know  sorrow;  and  say  to  you  that  in  the  hour 
of  sorrow,  in  the  hour  of  affliction,  in  the  hour  of  death,  God  has 
heard  and  answered  my  prayers,  and  I  know  that  he  lives.  I  leave 
my  testimony  with  you. 

May  God  give  direction  to  all  of  the  utterances  of  this  confer- 
ence. May  he  bless  our  youth  away,  and  us  at  home,  and  give  his 
direction  to  the  leaders  of  nations,  and  speedily  bring  about  the  ac- 
complishments of  his  purposes.  May  he  bless  you,  one  and  all,  and 
every  honest  man  and  woman  that  lives  upon  the  face  of  the  earth, 
is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  humility  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

That  was  a  most  inspiring  and  memorable  address.  It  is  most 
earnestly  desired  that  every  parent,  particularly,  every  young  man 
and  woman  in  the  Church  will  heed  the  instructions  just  given  by 
our  esteemed  and  honored  leader,  President  Heber  J.  Grant.  No 
message,  no  epistle  written  to  the  former-day  saints  was  sent 
more  sincerely  or  more  authoritatively  than  was  this  message  this 
morning  from  our  great  leader. 

You  will  all  join  with  me  I  am  sure  in  saying:  God  bless 
President  Grant  whose  life  exemplifies  the  teachings  of  the  Savior, 
whose  representative  he  is  on  the  earth  at  the  present  time,  im- 
prove his  health,  and  spare  his  life  to>  lead  us  many  years  to  come. 
I  ask  this  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Dag 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


We  here  and  the  Saints  everywhere  rejoice  in  the  inspiration, 
the  hope,  the  counsel,  and  the  blessing  of  the  great  message  of  Presi- 
dent Grant.  May  he  live  yet  many  years  to  give  us  his  wise  leadership. 


I  humbly  pray  that  while  I  stand  before  you,  I  shall  have  an  in- 
terest in  your  faith  and  prayers,  that  I  may  be  able  to  say  something 
that  will  be  encouraging  and  up-building  in  these  times  of  stress.  These 
are  trying  times.  Satan  is  walking  up  and  down  throughout  the 
earth.  He  is  wielding  a  power  and  an  influence  greater  than  ever  has 
been  before  in  my  generation.  We  shall  be  able  to  keep  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord  and  carry  out  his  work  only  as  the  Lord  shall  give 
us  help,  give  us  strength,  and  only  as  we  shall  live  for  those  blessings. 

It  has  been  our  boast — I  was  about  to  say — that  God  has  poured 
out  upon  us  in  the  last  one  hundred  years  since  the  establishing  of 
the  gospel  a  fulness  of  knowledge  and  of  wisdom  as  to  matters  spirit- 
ual, not  only,  but  also  as  to  matters  temporal  never  before  equaled  in 
the  same  time  in  the  whole  history  of  the  world. 

I  need  not  recount  to  you  the  achievements  in  science,  in  art,  and 
in  all  that  is  done  to  make  life  comfortable  and  secure.  We  have 
harnessed  the  forces  of  nature  in  a  way  they  have  never  been  harnessed 
before.  God  has  been  prolific  in  the  showering  upon  us  of  his  blessings, 
and  yet,  he  having  so  blessed  us  and  so  brought  things  to  our  service, 
we  are  now  engaged  in  using  every  one  of  them  that  is  available  and 
usable  of  art  and  science  to  the  destruction  of  our  fellow  men.  Nothing 
that  art  or  science  has  done  but  is  used  now  to  kill. 


We  sometimes  speak  of  our  trials.  I  wonder  if  we  remember 
what  must  be  the  trials  of  the  Lord.  He  was  sorely  tried  in  the  days 
of  Noah.  He  was  tried  with  Sodom  and  Gomorrah.  He  was  tried  by 
Israel.  He  has  been  tried  in  our  day.  I  am  sure  he  is  being  tried  now. 
We  alone,  we  of  the  older  men — not  the  youth  whom  we  have  sent 
out  to  fight  our  battles — we  are  responsible  for  the  conditions  in  this 
world.  God  will  expect  us,  of  this  group  of  priesthood  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints — he  will  expect  us  to  act  as  the 
ten  righteous  who  could  have  saved  Sodom  and  Gomorrah,  if  Abraham 
had  been  able  to  find  so  many. 


We  hear  a  great  deal  today  about  postwar  planning.  It  relates 
primarily,  always,  to  our  economic  life.  I  am  not  much  impressed  with 
this  planning,  because  in  my  view  there  are  too  many  uncertain  ele- 
ments connected  therewith  to  enable  us  wisely  to  plan.  We  shall  have 


Satan's  Power  Being  Exercised 


The  Lord  Tried  by  the  Acts  of  Men 


Preparation  for  Return  of  Soldiers 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


15 


to  wait  and  see  what  the  postwar  brings  through  forces  and  elements 
over  which  we  have  no  control. 

But  there  is  one  bit  of  postwar  planning  that  we  can  do,  and  to  that 
I  would  like  to  refer.  Our  boys,  children  almost,  have  gone  out  to 
do  battle  on  the  battlefronts  of  the  world.  We  sent  them  out  boys,  in 
their  innocence,  in  their  inexperience,  in  their  joyousness.  We  are 
going  to  have  them  back  men,  premature  men,  who  have  undergone 
trials  of  which  we  know  nothing,  who  faced  death  consciously,  day 
after  day.  Some  of  them  will  return — we  hope  most  of  them — glorious 
in  their  triumph  over  temptations  and  sin,  able  to  take  their  place  as 
the  leaders  of  this  people  and  as  the  leaders  of  the  nation,  seasoned  in 
righteousness,  seasoned  in  courage,  seasoned  in  everything  that  goes 
to  make  a  man  and  a  servant  of  God. 

But  some  are  coming  back  wounded  in  spirit  and  in  mind  by  hate, 
by  revenge,  by  a  willingness  to  kill,  and  sometimes  by  a  will  to  kill, 
wounded  and  corrupted  under  compulsion  in  thoughts  and  acts  and 
concepts  which  have  never  entered  our  minds  and  hearts.  They  are 
coming  back  questioning,  questioning  sometimes  even  the  existence 
of  a  God  who,  as  they  look  at  it,  would  not  tolerate  such  things  as 
they  have  gone  through,  they  not  understanding  that  we  have  brought 
these  ills  upon  ourselves.  What  are  we  going  to  do  with  these? 

I  am  not  thinking  of  their  making  a  livelihood.  That  is  the  least 
of  the  problems.  I  am  wondering  into  what  kind  of  homes  we  are 
going  to  bring  these  boys  back.  Is  there  to  be  contention;  is  there 
to  be  fault-finding;  is  there  to  be  discord?  Is  it  to  be  to  homes  without 
faith,  without  righteousness,  homes  in  which  unchastity  dwells  with 
its  corrupting  curse?  Or  are  we  to  bring  them  back  into  homes  of 
patience  and  charity,  into  homes  of  righteous  living?  Are  we  going 
to  bring  them  back  into  homes  of  confidence  and  of  love,  of  chastity, 
of  respect  for  their  fellow  men?  Are  we  going  to  bring  them  back 
into  Latter-day  Saint  homes,  and  there  carefully  nurture  and  rebuild, 
until  they  shall  once  more  become  as  near  as  may  be  normal  men? 
Are  we  going  to  bring  them  back  into  homes  of  faith  in  God,  faith  in 
his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  and  his  atoning  mission  and  sacrifice,  faith  in 
the  restored  gospel  and  in  Joseph  Smith,  with  all  that  that  implies? 

That  is  a  bit  of  postwar  planning  that  can  be  done  by  every  man 
and  the  head  of  every  family  in  this  Church  and  in  this  nation,  and  in 
the  world.  It  is  a  postwar  planning  that  requires  no  knowledge  of 
new  elements.  It  is  a  postwar  planning  that  merely  requires  that  we 
shall  live  the  gospel,  seek  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  ask  his  help,  a  plan- 
ning that  requires  that  we  and  our  families  shall  live  in  accordance 
with  the  principles  which  he  has  given  to  us.  How  can  we  do  that? 
By  prayer,  by  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  by  love,  by  respect  for 
the  rights  of  others,  by  that  companionship  in  the  home  between 
mother  and  father,  brothers  and  sisters,  that  can  take  the  wounded 
soul  back  to  the  bosom  of  the  family,  and  make  it  whole. 

I  urge  upon  you  Latter-day  Saints  this  postwar  planning.  It  is 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  6  First  Dag 


your  duty  to  your  own;  it  is  your  duty  to  yourself;  it  is  your  duty  to 
your  God.  It  is  within  the  reach  of  each  and  every  one. 

The  Savior,  commenting  to  the  multitude  after  John's  disciples 
had  come  and  asked  about  him  and  whether  he  was  the  Savior,  said: 

Come  unto  me,  all  ye  that  labour  and  are  heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give 
you  rest. 

Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn  of  me;  for  I  am  meek  and  lowly  in 
heart:  and  ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your  souls. 

For  my  yoke  is  easy,  and  my  burden  is  light.  (Matt.  11:28-30.) 

God  grant  that  to  every  father  and  mother,  to  every  wife  there 
will  come  the  power  to  prepare  themselves  to  receive  back  and  nurture 
to  health  and  strength  the  wounded  soul  which  may  come  to  them 
after  this  great  war  is  over,  that  those  who  return  may  once  more 
•become  useful  members  of  the  Church,  and  of  society,  and  so  shape 
their  lives  that  they,  too,  may  come  to  rest  in  glory  in  our  Father's 
kingdom,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Vocal  solo  by  Mondell  White,  "O  Lord  Most  Holy" — by  Caesar 
Franck. 

ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

It  is  a  great  thrill,  my  brethren,  for  me  to  meet  with  you,  the  men 
who  have  been  called  to  guide  and  direct  the  destinies  of  a  million 
people,  and  I  thrilled  as  we  listened  to  the  wonderful  things  that 
have  been  given  to  us  this  morning,  and  to  the  clarion  call  of  President 
Clark,  that  we  begin  our  postwar  planning  and  be  prepared  to  wel- 
come back  our  boys  and  girls  into  homes  where  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
is  observed  and  family  prayers  are  indulged  in. 

The  Value  of  Family  Prayer 

I  am  a  firm  believer  in  family  prayer,  and  I  do  not  think  there  is 
anything  too  small  for  us  to  ask  for,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  I 
was  talking  with  an  educator  not  long  ago  who  said:  "It  stands  to 
reason  that  God  can't  hear  all  the  prayers  that  are  offered  up  by  the 
hundreds  of  millions  of  people  that  are  in  this  world,  to  say  nothing 
of  all  the  other  worlds  and  their  inhabitants." 

Now,  I  do  not  pretend  to  know  how  the  Lord  can  hear  and  answer 
all  these  prayers,  but  I  do  know  that  from  my  infancy  my  mother 
taught  me  to  go  to  my  Heavenly  Father  in  prayer,  that  the  Lord  loves 
little  children,  and  that  he  would  answer  my  prayers.  I  have  been 
amazed  as  I  have  met  up  with  difficulties  to  discover  how  solutions 
came  to  problems.  Surely  the  Lord  does  hear  and  answer  prayer,  and 
if  we  have  a  praying  family,  and  these  boys  and  girls  who  have  been 
undergoing  these  terrible  experiences  come  back,  they  will  be  mighty 
happy  to  join  in  those  prayers. 

Letter  from  a  Soldier 

These  boys  of  ours  are  having  terrible  experiences.  One  of  my 
stalwart  missionaries  was  on  the  beachhead  of  Anzio  in  Italy.  He 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 


17 


had  been  in  a  foxhole  for  weeks.  He  came  out  of  it  to  get  cleaned  up 
and  have  a  little  rest,  and  as  he  was  writing,  telling  me  of  the  glorious 
experiences  he  had  had  up  in  the  Northwestern  States  Mission,  he 
said:  "You  know,  I  think  there  is  something  wrong  with  all  of  us. 
Here  I  have  been  looking  to  see  if  I  couldn't  catch  some  German  boy 
with  his  head  up  so  that  I  might  be  able  to  shoot  him,  and  I  knew  that 
there  were  German  boys  all  around  waiting  for  me  to  stick  my  head 
up  so  they  could  shoot  me,  and  as  I  sat  in  that  foxhole  this  past 
week  and  thought  about  it  all,"  he  said,  "I  don't  know  why  we  should 
act  this  way,  and  I  have  asked  my  Heavenly  Father  to  help  me  to 
understand." 

He  was  praying  in  his  foxhole,  all  right,  and  he  sent  this  little 
rhyme  in  his  letter.  I  do  not  know  whether  he  himself  wrote  it,  or 
where  he  picked  it  up  : 

Three  monkeys  sat  in  a  coconut  tree 
Discussing  things  as  they  seem  to  be. 
Said  one  to  the  others,  "Now  listen,  you  two, 
There's  a  certain  rumor,  that  can't  be  true — 
That  man  descended  from  our  noble  race. 
The  very  idea!  It's  a  disgrace. 

"No  monkey  ever  deserted  his  wife. 
Starved  her  babies,  or  ruined  her  life. 
And  you've  never  known  another  tronk 
To  leave  her  babies  with  others  to  bunk, 
Or  pass  them  on  from  one  to  another 
Till  they  scarcely  know  who  is  tneir  mother. 

"And  another  thing,  you'll  never  see 

A  monk  build  a  fence  'round  a  coconut  tree, 

And  let  the  coconuts  go  to  waste, 

Refusing  all  other  monks  a  taste. 

If  I'd  put  a  fence  around  a  tree, 

Starvation  would  force  you  to  steal  from  me. 

"Here's  another  thing  a  monk  won't  do, 
Go  out  at  night  and  get  on  a  stew, 
Or  use  a  gun,  or  a  club,  or  knife 
To  take  some  other  monkey's  life. 
Yes,  man  descended,  the  ornery  cuss, 
But  brothers,  he  didn't  descend  from  us!" 

This  fine  young  man  who  had  filled  a  glorious  mission  up  in  the 
Northwestern  States,  just  a  few  days  after  he  had  written  me  this 
letter,  paid  the  price  that  so  many  of  our  boys  must  pay,  for  he  was 
killed.  When  I  think  of  these  fine  young  fellows  who  have  a  testimony 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  burning  in  their  souls,  and  who  played 
their  part  in  the  mission  field  to  try  to  tell  people  of  this  better  way  of 
life,  that  they  have  family  prayers  in  their  home,  that  they  develop 
an  unselfish  spirit,  that  they  be  kind  to  their  neighbors,  I  am  sure  that 
it  is  a  terrible  thing  for  such  men  to  pay  this  price;  and  when  they 
come  back,  having  been  taught  to  kill,  to  destroy  houses  and  every- 
thing that  civilization  has  yet  built  up,  as  well  as  the  lives  of  the  people, 
they  will  need  prayer. 


18  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  6  First  Dag 


Now  the  men  who  sit  in  this  congregation  today  are  the  men 
whom  our  Heavenly  Father  will  hold  responsible  for  the  lives  that  the 
men  and  women  and  children  live  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  in  the  Church — 
a  million  of  them.  I  am  sure  there  would  not  be  one  here  who  would 
fail  to  have  his  family  prayers,  or  who  would  do  anything  secretly  or 
openly  that  would  make  a  living  soul  start  on  that  road  that  leads  to 
destruction.  I  know  you  love  the  people.  My  association  with  you 
as  I  have  been  working,  visiting  in  the  stakes  at  the  conferences,  visit- 
ing with  the  brethren,  has  convinced  me  of  the  fact  that  that  spirit  is 
abounding  amongst  the  leadership  of  the  Church,  and  it  should  be — 
a  spirit  of  humility,  a  spirit  of  prayer. 

Prayers  Are  Answered 

Prayer  is  not  any  unusual  thing,  of  course.  Prayers  have  always 
been  answered.  I  picked  a  hundred  and  twenty-five  references  in  the 
Holy  Bible  to  prayer,  and  noted  the  many  things  that  have  been  asked 
for,  and  noted  how  they  were  answered.  Even  an  ax  was  caused  to 
swim,  the  Bible  puts  it,  when  a  poor  workman  had  lost  his  ax,  and 
dropped  it  into  the  river,  and  it  was  a  borrowed  ax.  He  wanted  it 
back  that  he  might  return  it,  and  his  petition  was  answered;  the  ax 
was  caused  to  swim.  I  wonder  if  any  of  us  would  make  light  of  such 
a  suggestion? 

You  remember  that  our  Heavenly  Father  said  to  Solomon:  "Ask 
what  I  shall  give  thee."  Then  it  goes  on  to  say,  in  I  Kings  3:6-14: 

.  .  .  Thou  hast  shewed  unto  thy  servant  David  my  father  great  mercy, 
according  as  he  walked  before  thee  in  truth,  [said  Solomon],  and  in  right- 
eousness, and  in  uprightness  of  heart  with  thee;  and  thou  hast  kept  for  him 
this  great  kindness,  that  thou  hast  given  him  a  son  to  sit  on  his  throne, 
as  it  is  this  day. 

And  now,  O  Lord  my  God,  thou  hast  made  thy  servant  king  instead  of 
David  my  father:  and  I  am  but  a  little  child:  I  know  not  how  to  go  out 
or  come  in. 

And  thy  servant  is  in  the  midst  of  thy  people  which  thou  hast  chosen, 
a  great  people,  that  cannot  be  numbered  nor  counted  for  multitude. 

Give  therefore  thy  servant  an  understanding  heart  to  judge  thy  people, 
that  I  may  discern  between  good  and  bad:  for  who  is  able  to  judge  this 
thy  so  great  a  people? 

And  the  speech  pleased  the  Lord,  that  Solomon  had  asked  this  thing. 

And  God  said  unto  him,  Because  thou  hast  asked  this  thing,  and  hast 
not  asked  for  thyself  long  life;  neither  hast  asked  riches  for  thyself,  nor  hast 
asked  the  life  of  thine  enemies;  but  hast  asked  for  thyself  understanding  to 
discern  judgment; 

Behold,  I  have  done  according  to  thy  words:  lo,  I  have  given  thee  a 
wise  and  an  understanding  heart;  so  that  there  was  none  like  thee  before 
thee,  neither  after  thee  shall  any  arise  like  unto  thee. 

And  I  have  also  given  thee  that  which  thou  hast  not  asked,  both  riches, 
and  honour:  so  that  there  shall  not  be  any  among  the  kings  like  unto  thee 
all  thy  days. 

And  if  thou  wilt  walk  in  my  ways,  to  keep  my  statutes  and  my  com- 
mandments, as  thy  father  David  did  walk,  then  I  will  lengthen  thy  days. 

A  few  weeks  ago  I  was  returning  from  Washington,  D.C.,  and 
I  was  awakened  in  the  morning  after  an  all  night  ride.  The  chef  in 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 


19 


the  dining  car  said  to  me,  "You  know,  people  stood  up  all  night  in 
the  coaches,  and  there  were  dozens  and  dozens  of  soldier  boys  who 
were  sleeping  on  the  platforms  of  the  cars."  He  said,  "I  wish  people 
could  be  better  to  these  men." 

You  know  the  transportation  troubles.  I  suppose  many  of  the 
boys  were  cold  before  that  night  was  over,  because  it  was  a  chilly 
night.  However,  as  we  neared  Chicago,  my  reservations  were  for  the 
twenty-second  out  of  Chicago,  and  I  was  coming  into  Chicago  on  the 
evening  of  the  twentieth,  which  meant  that  I  would  have  to  stay  two 
days.  Just  a  little  bit  before  we  entered  Chicago  I  said,  "Heavenly 
Father,  help  me  to  get  out  of  here.  I  don't  want  to  have  to  remain 
over  in  Chicago  two  days,  there  is  much  I  can  be  doing  at  home." 

When  I  arrived  at  the  station  the  train  was  late,  and  I  went  over 
to  see  if  there  was  a  possibility  of  getting  a  reservation,  but  the  ticket 
man  said:  "No,  there  aren't  any  reservations;  they  are  all  taken. 
There  is  not  a  thing  in  this  train,  but  come  back  in  a  little  while." 

I  went  over  to  a  restaurant  and  had  something  to  eat,  read  the 
newspaper,  and  then  just  before  train  time  went  back  to  the  station 
and  went  to  the  ticket  office  and  said:  "Have  you  anything  yet?" 

He  said:  "No,  there  hasn't  been  one  cancellation.  There  is  not 
a  thing  in  any  of  these  trains  going  west." 

So  I  thought  I  would  go  and  make  my  arrangements  to  remain 
two  days  in  President  David  Stoddard's  home,  unless  I  could  get  out. 
Then  I  went  down  to  the  drugstore  and  thought  I  would  have  a 
malted  milk,  but  as  I  sat  down  at  the  counter  I  looked  across  it  and 
saw  a  familiar  face.  I  once  heard  a  man  in  Chicago  say  he  had  been 
there  twenty  years,  and  he  had  never  met  a  living  soul  on  the  streets 
of  that  city  that  he  knew.  There  were  several  thousand  people  milling 
around  in  that  station.  I  saw  a  face  that  looked  familiar,  and  I  tried 
to  catch  her  eye,  but  couldn't,  so  I  walked  around  and  asked  her  if 
she  was  not  Mrs.  Homer  McCarthy. 

"Why,"  she  said,  "Bishop  Smith!  What  are  you  doing  here?" 

She  sent  her  daughters  upstairs  to  get  her  husband,  who,  by  the 
way,  is  manager  of  the  Aurora  plant  of  the  Montgomery  Ward  Com- 
pany, and  she  said:  "Homer  is  going  out  to  Utah  to  put  our  eldest 
daughter  in  Brigham  Young  University." 

Pretty  soon  Homer  came  over.  It  had  been  thirteen  years  since 
I  had  seen  him,  and  he  said:  "Bishop,  what  are  you  doing  and  where 
are  you  going?" 

I  said,  "Well,  I  intended  to  go  home  on  one  of  these  trains,  but  I 
can't  make  it.  Not  one  reservation  has  been  cancelled,  and  there  is 
no  opportunity." 

Then  Homer  said,  "Well,  Bishop,  my  daughter  can  have  the 
upper  berth,  and  you  and  I  will  sleep  in  the  lower.  Would  you  come 
and  be  with  me,  and  we  can  have  a  visit  as  we  go  along." 

I  thought  about  those  boys  who  were  sleeping  out  on  the  platforms 
of  the  trains  on  those  two  nights,  and  I  said:  "I  would  be  delighted 
to  do  it,  Homer."  And  that  got  me  on  the  train,  and  as  the  conductor 


20 

Friday.  October  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Dag 


finished  checking  the  train  he  came  and  said,  "I  have  one  upper,  Upper 
10,  left  on  this  train.  You  may  have  it."  As  I  crawled  up  into  that 
bunk  1  thought  of  that  little  prayer  I  had  offered,  "Heavenly  Father, 
help  me  to  get  home."  And  so  it  was  in  such  a  natural  way  my  prayer 
was  answered. 

In  the  answers  to  my  prayers  I  have  found  that  the  Lord  is  just 
natural  and  sweet  and  glorious  always. 

A  Testimony 

Brothers,  he  lives!  This  is  his  Church,  and  he  has  called  each  of 
us  to  a  responsibility,  and  we  cannot  fill  that  responsibility  unless  we 
are  praying  men,  and  as  we  are  praying  men  we  will  have  discernment, 
we  will  have  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  to  help  us  so  to  live  that  no  mortal 
can  take  offense  at  our  lives.  God  bless  all  of  us  who  are  called  to 
lead,  and  let  us  get  into  the  hearts  and  souls  of  all  of  our  people,  a 
desire  to  serve  God  and  keep  all  his  commandments,  so  that  our  post- 
war plan,  as  called  for  by  President  Clark,  will  be  one  of  force  and 
power  that  cannot  be  equalled  in  all  the  world,  is  my  prayer,  in  Jesus' 
name.  Amen. 

ELDER  GUSTAVE  A.  IVERSON 

Former  President  o[  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

Brethren :  I  am  grateful  to  the  Lord  that  I  am  counted  worthy  to 
stand  here  and  address  you  upon  this  important  occasion.  I  feel 
humble,  and  I  rely  upon  the  Lord  at  this  moment,  and  experience  has 
taught  me  that  man,  though  frail  and  weak,  may  have  assurance  of  the 
guidance  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  provided  he  asks  in  humility  and 
sincerity  for  it. 

It  has  been  a  great  joy  to  me  during  the  past  nearly  four  years 
to  preside  over  the  Eastern  States  Mission.  It  has  been  a  rare 
privilege.  I  have  seen  the  work  of  the  Lord  go  forward  in  that  mission. 
I  have  beheld  with  joy,  and  have  been  given  strength  as  I  so  beheld, 
the  humility  and  at  the  same  time  the  strength  and  fortitude  of  those 
who  have  been  sent  out  as  messengers  of  God  to  carry  to  the  world 
the  message  of  the  Gospel  of  peace. 

I  have  seen  them  in  many  circumstances,  and  I  believe  in  not  a 
single  case  have  they  faltered  seriously.  They  have  been  admonished, 
I  take  it,  by  the  Spirit,  to  go  to  the  Lord  and  receive  the  wisdom,  the 
strength  and  the  inspiration  necessary  to  carry  on  a  most  important, 
a  most  sacred  mission. 

My  missionary  experience,  so  far  as  the  Eastern  States  Mission 
is  concerned,  has  come  to  an  end,  that  is,  direct  connection  with  the 
Mission  has  terminated.  I  am  grateful  for  the  experience  of  the  past, 
for  the  confidence  the  brethren  have  had  in  me,  and  for  the  confidence 
which  I  feel  they  still  have,  as  they  have  retained  me  under  a  special 
commission  to  remain  in  the  East  for  the  duration,  with  headquarters 
in  the  city  of  Washington,  the  nation's  capital.  I  shall  do  my  best, 
and  I  pledge  my  earnest  endeavor  and  devotion  to  the  commission 


ELDER  GUST  AVE  A.  1VERSON 


21 


which  I  have  been  given  and  the  mission  to  which  I  have  been  as- 
signed in  this  relation. 

I  hope  I  may  legitimately  say  cn  this  occasion  that  it  is  a  wish 
that  fills  my  heart  that  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  in  helping 
the  young  men  and  young  women  in  the  service  of  our  country  may 
prosper.  My  experience  in  recent  years  has  given  me  assurance  and 
complete  conviction  that  there  is  but  one  place  to  which  one  may 
confidently  go  in  search  of  the  strength  and  purpose  to  help  mankind, 
and  that  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  upon  which,  under  God,  this  Church  has 
been  founded  in  the  day  in  which  we  live.  When  men  ultimately  shall 
sit  around  the  council  tables,  if  that  time  shall  come,  for  the  purpose 
of  discussing  the  problems  that  confront  them  relating  to  a  peace 
which  shall  endure,  they  shall  surely  fail  unless  they  are  possessed 
of  that  spirit  which  fills  the  heart  of  the  devoted  missionary  and  servant 
of  the  Lord  who  unselfishly  and  with  devotion  carries  on. 

How  I  rejoiced  this  morning,  and  how  we  all  must  have  rejoiced 
in  the  solemn  testimonies  borne  by  the  servants  of  the  Lord! 

This  is  a  day,  my  brethren,  when  we  are  called  upon  to  be  loyal. 
Loyalty  should  be  our  watchword,  and  loyalty  cannot  be  exercised,  we 
cannot  project  into  the  lives  of  others  or  into  society  the  loyalty  which 
we  ourselves  may  enjoy,  nor  can  we  have  it  ourselves  to  the  extent  of 
being  a  moving  factor  in  the  upbuilding  of  society  and  the  bringing 
about  of  better  conditions  in  the  world  unless  we  have  the  Spirit  of 
God  to  guide  us. 

President  Grant  emphasized  this  virtue,  it  seemed  to  me,  with 
deep  emotion  this  morning  in  our  hearing,  employing  words  tending 
to  fill  our  hearts  with  the  most  sacred  devotion  and  determination  to  be 
servants  of  the  Lord,  and  I  testify  that  God  will  help  us,  provided 
we  listen  to  the  counsels  of  the  leaders  of  the  Church. 

•  "May  we,"  said  he,  "may  we" — and  he  was  talking  to  the  priest- 
hood of  Almighty  God — "listen  to  the  voice  and  the  counsel  of  the 
leaders  of  the  Church."  Aye,  that  is  the  basis  upon  which  true  loyalty 
rests.  That  is  where  we  may  go  for  the  source  of  our  strength  and 
the  power  to  act  individually  and  as  a  group  in  this  hour  of  turmoil, 
of  stress,  and  in  a  multitude  of  perplexities,  and  in  some  instances 
despair.  Loyalty  to  our  beloved  America  was  never  more  vital  than 
it  is  today. 

Devotion  to  the  Constitution  of  our  country  was  borne  in  upon 
us  with  fervency  this  morning.  The  Constitution  was  brought  forth 
in  adversity,  erected  by  the  hand  of  God,  not  only  to  influence  the 
people  who  might  directly  come  under  its  powers  and  jurisdiction, 
but,  as  the  revelation  says,  to  affect  "all  flesh,"  and  that  means  every- 
where. Let  us  pray  that  it  may  firmly  stand,  that  today,  as  in  earlier 
days,  men  who  interpret  it  may  not  act  upon  things  ex  cathedra, 
sound  enough  in  their  legitimate  associations  and  judicial  relation- 
ships, and  not  applied  in  orderly  or  upbuilding  sequence. 

Let  us  pray,  and  do  it  fervently,  that  this  important  institution 


.  22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  6  First  Day 

may  be  upheld  and  declared  under  wise  counsel  and  the  guidance  of 
that  intelligence  whose  source  is  the  throne  of  grace. 

May  I  say  one  word  now  on  another  matter,  and  then  I  shall 
close.  As  you  probably  know,  some  of  you  at  least,  I  am  a  member  of 
the  General  Commission  on  Army  and  Navy  Chaplains,  an  institution 
created  many  years  ago,  made  up  of  Protestant  ministers,  bishops  and 
pastors  of  practically  all  the  constituted  churches  of  the  country.  A 
little  over  three  years  ago  the  brethren  asked  me  to  represent  them  on 
that  commission. 

The  commission  represents  the  various  churches  and  denomina- 
tions through  its  members  and  serves  them  in  relation  to  the  appoint- 
ment and  welfare'  of  the  chaplains  in  the  army  and  the  navy.  That 
which  is  being  accomplished  and  what  may  be  accomplished  through 
the  efforts  of  the  men  representing  the  churches  throughout  this 
country,  whose  representatives  strive  for  the  betterment  of  those  who 
engage  in  the  service  of  their  country  and  of  their  God,  are  willing 
to  give  their  lives  for  righteousness  in  support  of  its  principles  vouch- 
safed to  the  people  of  this  country,  for  their  protection  and  guidance, 
and  for  their  happiness  in  the  future,  is  most  important.  The  Church 
is  now  represented  on  the  commission.  Eight  thousand  chaplains  have 
been  appointed  in  the  armed  services  of  the  United  States,  and  are 
now  in  active  service.  Eight  thousand  chaplains  representing  various 
denominations,  Christian  and  Jewish.  We  are  low  as  a  Church 
at  the  present  time  in  the  number  of  representatives,  due  primarily 
to  the  fact  that  about  twenty  years  ago  a  formula  was  adopted,  when 
certain  men  representing  the  War  Department  and  the  corps  of  chap- 
lains got  together  to  decide  upon  some  policy  that  should  be  invoked 
hereafter,  some  basis  upon  which  appointment  of  chaplains  should 
be  made.  Upon  examination  of  historical  data  relating  to  World  War 
I,  it  was  found  that  we,  the  Church,  had  only  three  chaplains  in  the 
armed  forces.  Many  churches  had  hundreds  of  chaplains,  others 
again  in  the  fifties,  and  perhaps  a  dozen  of  them  were  represented  by 
from  two  to  three  to  half  a  dozen  chaplains,  and  the  investigators 
adopted  data  so  found  as  the  basis  upon  which  apportionment  of 
chaplains  should  be  made  to  the  various  denominations,  and  we, 
having  only  three,  of  course  received  a  low  quota.  A  number  of  other 
churches  were  similarily  situated  and  treated  in  the  same  fashion. 

May  I  say  by  way  of  encouragement— and  this  is  the  point  I  desire 
to  make — that  a  study  is  now  being  made  to  bring  about  a  revision  of 
the  old  basis,  and  I  presume  that  shortly  there  will  be  presented  to 
the  War  Department  a  schedule  in  which  will  be  found  a  modern, 
up  to  date  foundation  upon  which  the  quotas  of  the  various  denomina- 
tions may  be  made. 

I  am  not  permitted  to  give  the  figures  which  at  present  obtain;  I 
am  not  permitted  to  say  whether  it  will  be  soon  adopted  or  will  come 
later  on,  and,  of  course,  no  one  knows  exactly.  But  we  can  speak  with 
some  approximation.  And  let  me  say  to  you,  my  brethren,  that  when 
this  study  has  been  completed,  and  I  think  it  will  not  be  long,  the 


ELDER  GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH  23 


number  of  chaplains  who  will  be  appointed,  or  who  may  be  available 
for  appointment  from  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
will  be  multiplied  by  at  least  three.  At  the  present  time  and  during 
the  last  three  or  four  months  the  number  of  our  chaplains  in  the  army 
has  been  increased  nearly  1 00  percent,  and  more  chaplains  are  being 
appointed. 

I  felt  that  I  should  say  this  much  in  relation  to  the  matter  here 
discussed.  I  thought  that  upon  this  occasion  it  might  be  of  interest  to 
you  brethren  holding  the  priesthood. 

May  God  bless  us,  give  us  strength,  fortitude  and  courage;  may 
we  be  humble  and  always  prayerful.  Let  us  have  before  us  every 
moment  of  our  lives  the  admonition  of  the  prophets  of  God,  to  listen 
and  obey  the  leaders  of  the  Church,  for  they  are  called  of  God.  I  know, 
my  brethren,  that  they  have  been  called  of  God,  and  when  they  speak 
relative  to  the  Church  they  speak  the  word  of  God. 

May  he  bless  us  and  give  us  strength,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH 

President  of  the  Northern  California  Mission 

I  am  humbly  grateful,  my  brethren,  to  be  counted  worthy  to  stand 
before  this  great  body  of  the  priesthood  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 
I  have  heard  many  an  elder  say  that  he  was  surprised  to  be  called 
upon,  and  that  is  certainly  true  in  my  case  at  this  time. 

As  announced,  I  have  the  honor  to  preside  over  the  Northern 
California  Mission,  representing  the  territory  from  halfway  between 
Bakersfield  and  Fresno  on  the  south  to  and  including  the  southern 
counties  of  the  state  of  Oregon.  We  have  forty-two  branches  of  the 
Church  with  approximately  five  thousand  Latter-day  Saints,  and  we 
believe  they  are  Latter-day  Saints  because  of  their  work  and  their 
devotion  to  the  cause  of  Christ.  We  are  happy  and  proud  to  be 
associated  with  them. 

California  was  my  first  mission  field,  going  there  more  than 
forty-eight  years  ago,  where  we  had  fewer  than  two  dozen  people  in 
San  Francisco,  and  few,  if  any,  in  Oakland.  Today  we  have  a 
flourishing  stake  covering  San  Francisco,  and  a  stake  with  fourteen 
wards  in  Oakland.  When  I  went  to  Los  Angeles  we  met  in  Sister 
Woolicot's  home  and  a  small  storeroom  on  Temple  Street.  In  Santa 
Ana  County,  where  I  spent  eight  months,  some  sixteen  people  were 
baptized  in  that  part  of  the  state  of  California.  In  Oakland,  where  I 
completed  my  mission  in  1 898,  I  had  the  privilege  of  baptizing  one  or 
two  of  the  first  members  in  Oakland,  now  a  stake  of  some  fourteen 
wards  and  branches. 

I  have  always  loved  California  because  of  the  many  things  that 
came  to  me  from  the  Lord.  It  was  there  I  was  shown  a  vision  of  the 
Northern  States  Mission,  to  which  I  was  called  within  five  years 
after  returning  from  my  first  mission.  Even  though  I  tried  everything 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Dag 


to  avoid  being  called  there,  even  to  moving  to  another  stake,  it  still 
came.  I  have  always  been  grateful  to  the  Lord  that  I  accepted  my  call 
to  California  and  to  the  Northern  States. 

I  had  worked  hard  for  several  years  in  order  to  go  to  college  and 
receive  the  title  of  a  doctor.  It  took  all  my  savings  to  fill  my  mission 
in  California.  It  took  the  savings  of  three  or  four  years  to  accept  a 
call  to  the  Northern  States.  We  went  there  when  the  Church  was 
poor,  when  the  tithing  of  the  mission  was  less  than  $1,000.00  the  first 
year.  We  stayed  there  more  than  sixteen  years,  and  the  Lord  was 
good  to  us.  He  is  good  to  us  now  in  our  going  back  to  California  be- 
cause there  is  something  in  the  association  of  men  and  women  in  the 
mission  under  the  Spirit  of  God  that  is  sweeter  than  anything  I  have 
ever  known  in  all  my  life.  It  is  the  thing  that  is  beyond  the  power  of 
man  to  express.  I  am  grateful  for  my  life's  experience  under  the  in- 
fluence of  the  mission  field. 

I  have  often  wondered  who  I  am,  what  I  have  done  in  life  to  be 
entitled  to  all  the  blessings  that  God  has  given  to  me,  for  opening  my 
eyes  and  touching  my  sensibilities  to  know  that  God  lives  and  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  he  has  established  his  Church  upon  the  earth, 
given  it  his  name,  his  organization  for  the  education  of  his  people  to 
prepare  them  to  come  back  and  enjoy  his  presence.  It  is  the  greatest 
university  ever  established  in  the  earth;  it  was  established  by  God 
himself,  and  those  who  work  at  it  humbly  and  prayerfully  will  know 
beyond  the  shadow  of  a  doubt  that  it  is  God's  established  work.  It 
has  just  begun.  It  will  encompass  the  earth,  for  the  gospel  must  be 
preached  to  all  the  nations  of  the  earth. 

I  humbly  pray  that  he  will  make  us  worthy  of  the  positions  we 
hold,  worthy  to  be  called  into  his  service  both  here  and  hereafter. 

We  have  approximately  400  local  missionaries  and  are  now  try- 
ing to  teach  them  the  responsibility  of  showing  their  light  to  their 
neighbors,  else  they  might  find  accusing  eyes  looking  at  them,  even  on 
the  Other  Side,  if  they  have  hidden  their  light  under  a  bushel,  and  have 
not  done  their  part  to  teach  their  neighbors  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

May  He  awaken  all  of  us  to  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  us 
for  the  light  that  has  come  into  our  lives,  may  we  turn  missionaries, 
may  the  whole  Church  become  conscious  of  the  fact  that  they  are  re- 
sponsible to  God  our  Father  for  the  light  and  testimony  and  truth 
that  have  come  into  their  lives,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


After  singing  by  the  congregation  and  benediction  by  Presi- 
dent John  M.  Homer  of  the  Idaho  Falls  Stake,  the  Conference 
will  be  adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

Will  you  please  bring  your  song  folders  with  you  and  try  to 
be  in  your  seats  at  five  minutes  to  two  o'clock. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


f 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


25 


The  congregation  will  arise  and  sing,  "Jehovah,  Lord  of 
Heaven  and  Earth,"  Song  Folder  number  13,  L.D.S.  Hymn  Book 
196. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Jehovah,  Lord  of  Heaven 
and  Earth." 

Elder  John  M.  Homer,  President  of  the  Idaho  Falls  Stake,  of- 
fered the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.m. 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  promptly  at  2  p.m.,  Friday,  October  6, 
with  President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First 
Presidency,  conducting  the  exercises. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  is  the  second  session  of  the  1 1 5th  Semi- Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Presi- 
dent Grant  who  has  a  direct  wire  from  the  tabernacle  to  his  home, 
has  requested  that  I  conduct  the  exercises. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon  the  two  Coun- 
selors in  the  First  Presidency,  members  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church,  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve, 
members  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  the  Presiding  Bish- 
opric. 

The  attendance  at  this  conference,  because  of  increasing  dif- 
ficulties in  transportation  both  by  automobile  and  by  railroad  train, 
is  limited  to  representatives  of  the  Priesthood  of  the  Church.  How- 
ever, nearly  every  stake  is  represented. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  radio  station  KSL  the  proceedings  of 
this  meeting  are  being  broadcast. 

Elder  Richard  P.  Condie  will  direct  the  music,  and  Elder 
Frank  W.  Asper  is  at  the  organ. 

The  congregation  will  now  join  in  singing,  "Come  All  Ye  Sons 
of  God."  Song  Folder  number  25,  Hymn  Book  number  202.  The 
congregation  will  remain  seated  while  singing. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Come  All  Ye  Sons  of  God." 

President  Royle  S.  Papworth  of  the  Star  Valley  Stake  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Sweet  Is  The  Work."  (Song 
Folder  No.  29,  L.D.S.  Hymn  Book  No.  91.) 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  6  First  Dag 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 
SUSTAINED 

President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Pres- 
idency, presented  for  the  vote  of  the  Conference  the  General  Au- 
thorities, General  Officers,  and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the 
Church,  and  they  were  unanimously  sustained  by  those  present,  as 
follows: 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

First  Presidency 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
George  Albert  Smith 

Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

George  Albert  Smith  Charles  A.  Callis 

George  F.  Richards  Albert  E.  Bowen 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Harold  B.  Lee 

Stephen  L  Richards  Spencer  W.  Kimball 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Ezra  Taft  Benson 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  Mark  E.  Petersen 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Joseph  F.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles, 
and  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Marion  G.  Romney  Clifford  E.  Young 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Alma  Sonne 

Nicholas  G.  Smith 

Trustee-in-Trust 
Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED  27 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  John  H.  Taylor 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Rufus  K.  Hardy 

Samuel  O.  Bennion  Richard  L.  Evans 

Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

Presiding  Bishopric 

LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop 
Marvin  O.  Ashton,  First  Counselor 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant. 

Church  Board  of  Education 

Heber  J.  Grant  Adam  S.  Bennion 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

David  O.  McKay  Charles  A.  Callis 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Franklin  L.  West 

Stephen  L  Richards  Albert  E.  Bowen 
John  A.  Widtsoe 

Frank  Evans,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

Commissioner  of  Education 
Franklin  L.  West 

Seminary  Supervisors 

M.  Lynn  Bennion 
J.  Karl  Wood 

Auditing  and  Finance  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Harold  H.  Bennett 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President;  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor, 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor. 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Wade  N.  Stephens,  Assistant 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  First 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 

Advisers 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Nicholas  G.  Smith 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Antoine  R.  Ivins 


Harold  B.  Lee 


Marion  G.  Romney  LeGrand  Richards 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Marvin  O.  Ashton 


Clifford  E.  Young 


ohn  H.  Taylor 


oseph  L.  Wirthlin 


Alma  Sonne  Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

General  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 

Robert  L.  Judd,  Vice-Chairman 

Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 

Mark  Austin  Sterling  H.  Nelson 

William  E.  Ryberg  Stringam  A.  Stevens 

Clyde  C.  Edmunds  Howard  Barker 

Roscoe  W.  Eardley  Ezra  C.  Knowlton 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

National  Woman's  Relief  Society 

Amy  Brown  Lyman,  President 
Marcia  K.  Howells,  First  Counselor 
Belle  S.  Spafford,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

Milton  Bennion,  General  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
A.  Hamer  Reiser,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

George  Q.  Morris,  General  Superintendent 
Joseph  J.  Cannon,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Burton  K.  Farnsworth,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


29 


Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  President 
Verna  W.  Goddard,  First  Counselor 
Lucy  T.  Andersen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Primary  Association 

Adele  Cannon  Howells,  President 
LaVern  W.  Parmley,  First  Counselor 
Dessie  G.  Boyle,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Brethren  and  Radio  Listeners: 

Much  is  said  these  days  about  winning  a  lasting  peace  following 
the  terrible  and  fearfully  destructive  global  war  now  raging.  Various 
plans  are  proposed  for  attaining  this  greatly  and  widely  desired  ob- 
jective. But  we  know  that  this  can  be  achieved  only  if  certain  condi- 
tions are  met  among  which  are  fair,  right,  and  just  provisions  made 
for  all  nations,  defeated  as  well  as  victorious.  But  in  the  few  minutes 
allotted  to  me  I  desire  to  talk  about  some  conditions  on  the  home 
front  that  affect  peace. 

The  Application  of  the  Golden  Rule 

The  reply  of  Jesus  to  the  lawyer  who  asked  "which  is  the  great 
commandment  in  the  law"  was  as  follows: 

.  .  .  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all 
thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind. 

This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment. 

And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as  thyself. 
On  these  two  commandments  hang  all  the  law  and  the  prophets. 
(Matt.  22:37-40.) 

Since  we  are  all  children  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  the  term 
"neighbor"  as  used  by  Jesus  means  our  fellow  men.  Now,  as  an  evi- 
dence that  we  love  our  neighbors  as  we  love  ourselves,  we  must  treat 
them  in  all  respects  in  our  relations  with  them  as  we  would  like  to  be 
treated  were  the  circumstances  reversed — we  in  their  shoes,  and 
they  in  ours.  In  other  words,  we  must  live  the  golden  rule.  And  be- 
cause we  do  not  live  the  golden  rule  there  is  more  or  less  severe  and 
tragic  trouble  all  the  time  within  the  borders  of  our  country,  all  of 
which  would  disappear  if  we  kept  the  second  great  commandment. 

Yet  none  of  us  fully  keeps  this  commandment.  Why?  One 
reason  is  we  are  all  too  selfish,  not  some  of  us  only,  but  all  of  us.  Let 
me  particularize  by  citing  a  few  cases. 

First,  let  us  begin  with  a  corporation  having  assets  worth  mil- 
lions of  dollars.    Its  money  has  come  from  thousands  of  stock- 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  6  First  Day 

holders  and  the  sale  of  bonds.  The  stockholders  elect  directors  who 
in  turn  appoint  officers  and  other  employees  and  fix  their  salaries. 
Some  of  these  salaries  are  likely  large — very  large.  The  greater  the 
assets  the  greater  the  salaries  are  likely  to  be.  They  really  far  ex- 
ceed the  needs  of  the  recipients  to  maintain  a  decent  standard  of  liv- 
ing. Commonly,  also,  these  salaries  have  no  relation  to  the  ability 
of  the  corporation  to  pay  dividends.  Hence  some  stockholders  feel 
aggrieved,  thinking  they  are  not  fairly  treated.  Further,  these  big 
salaries  incite  workers  to  demand  higher  pay  and  create  prejudice 
in  the  minds  of  the  public  against  the  corporation.  Is  any  thought 
given  by  the  directors  to  the  golden  rule  when  they  fix  compensations 
for  themselves  and  the  high-ranking  officers?  And  does  the  company 
management  always  treat  its  employees  as  brothers,  as  neighbors,  en- 
titled to  be  dealt  with  according  to  the  requirements  of  the  golden 
rule?  A  few  of  these  employees  may  even  be  more  indispensable  to 
the  success  of  the  company  than  the  officers  themselves,  but  in  com- 
parison they  are  underpaid.  I  have  reference  to  inventors  and  others 
endowed  with  special  gifts  the  products  of  whose  ingenuity  make  it 
possible  for  the  company  to  have  a  prosperous  business.  Our  marvel- 
ous mechanical  civilization  is  based  upon  research  and  invention. 
Managers  are  often  ordinary  men,  given  opportunity.  Inventors  are 
always  men  with  extraordinary  endowments. 

Another  illustration,  seldom  given:  A  highly  respected  and 
necessary  profession  has  allowed  itself  to  be  maneuvered  into  a  po- 
sition where  it  absolutely  controls  one  phase  of  the  well-being  of  the 
public.  There  is  no  closed  shop  labor  union  of  which  I  have  heard 
that  so  completely  controls  its  field  as  does  this  profession.  It  limits 
the  number  permitted  to  qualify  for  the  profession,  thus  preventing 
any  overcrowding  in  the  field  of  service,  and  so  practically  insuring 
full  employment  to  entrants.  The  standard  of  fees  is  so  high  that 
multitudes  in  the  middle  classes  are  hardly  able  to  afford  necessary 
service.  The  income  of  successful  practitioners  is  far  above  that  of 
most  other  people  of  equal  or  greater  ability  but  engaged  in  other  es- 
sential vocational  fields.  The  situation  appears  to  be  entirely  out 
of  harmony  with  the  requirements  of  the  golden  rule. 

The  Present  State  of  Politics 

Let  us  glance  at  the  political  field.  Though  the  need  for  states- 
men was  perhaps  never  greater  in  the  history  of  the  country,  the 
supply,  perhaps,  was  never  proportionately  less.  Certainly  the  sup- 
ply of  politicians,  even  demagogues,  was  never  greater.  I  use  the 
term  "politician"  in  the  sense  of  a  holder  or  seeker  of  political  office 
who  regards  getting  and  holding  the  office  as  the  all-important  thing 
and  who  schemes,  bargains,  and  promises  in  order  that  he  may  get 
support  and  votes.  His  principles  are  often  tenuous  and  easily 
changeable  to  suit  the  needs  of  the  hour.  The  demagogue  is  an  un- 
principled politician. 

The  statesman  is  a  man  who  would  "rather  be  right  than  be 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


31 


president."  He  is  an  able  man  of  principles  and  of  character  who 
avoids  compromising  with  his  principles  and  disdains  buying  support 
by  making  promises  to  people  who  seek  wholly  selfish  ends,  for  this 
is  akin  to  the  crime  of  bribery. 

But  it  is  probably  true  that  the  people  themselves  are  responsible 
for  the  paucity  of  statesmen  and  the  abundance  of  politicians  and 
demagogues.  Many  years  ago  I  sat  one  evening  in  the  park  with  an 
elderly  man,  manager  of  the  apartment  house  in  which  I  lived.  He 
said  that  for  thirty  years  he  was  a  member  of  the  Illinois  state  legis- 
lature and  related  many  interesting  experiences.  But  I  shall  never 
forget  one  remark  he  made  which  was  "every  man  has  his  price;  some 
votes  can  be  obtained  for  $50,  others  for  $500,  and  occasionally 
$50,000  is  the  price."  Unsophisticated  as  I  was,  this  statement  was 
hard  for  me  to  believe,  but  I  had  no  reason  then  or  now  to  doubt  its 
truth. 

Yes,  the  people  themselves  help  to  make  politicians  by  offering 
them  tempting  inducements.  The  desire  to  serve  the  public  is  com- 
mendable, particularly  when  it  is  coupled  with  pure  motives.  But  the 
itch  for  office  and  the  emoluments  thereof,  sometimes  affects  other- 
wise good  men  so  deeply  that  they  yield  to  all  sorts  of  temptations  in 
their  efforts  to  obtain  or  retain  office. 

Our  primary  election  system  is  bad  in  at  least  one  respect — it 
helps  to  make  politicians  and  demagogues.  The  short  time  allotted 
me  will  not  permit  of  showing  why,  but  supporting  reasons  will  oc- 
cur to  my  listeners.  It  requires  a  strong  man  of  firm  resolve  to  go 
into  a  hotly  contested  primary  for  a  high  office  and  come  through  un- 
tarnished. In  the  primary  he  is  on  his  own,  not  governed  by  the  plat- 
form and  backed  by  the  resources  of  his  party.  He  is  likely  to  be 
contacted  by  many  groups,  actuated  by  wholly  selfish  motives  and 

offered  assistance  of  money  and  votes  if  .    A  statesman  is  not 

purchasable;  a  politician  may  have  his  price.  Even  highly  respect- 
able groups  may  forget  themselves  and  make  offers  and  considera- 
tions, as  has  previously  been  done  right  here  in  our  own  state,  so 
rumor  says.  Shame  upon  them  wherever  and  whenever  their  motives 
are  selfish  and  not  clearly  in  the  interests  of  the  public  good!  In  such 
cases,  in  principle  at  least,  are  they  not  offering  bribes.  Good  laws 
should  be  made  and  enforced  that  would  protect  the  public  and  public 
officials  from  all  forms  of  bribery  and  near  bribery. 

In  passing,  may  I  say  frankly  that  I  believe  a  return  to  the  con- 
vention system,  where  to  a  large  degree  candidates  were  "called," 
would  be  a  factor  in  saving  nominees  for  election  from  some  of  the 
temptations  they  now  face  in  the  primaries. 

Selfishness  a  Dominating  Factor 

We  know  that  a  dangerous  doctrine  has  been  fostered  by  some 
selfish  groups  and  accepted  by  some  politicians  to  the  effect  that  the 
world  owes  everybody  a  living,  irrespective  of  one's  worthiness.  Of 
course  no  living  soul,  unable  to  help  himself,  should  be  allowed  to 


32  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  6  •  First  Day 


suffer  for  the  necessities  of  life,  if  it  is  possible  to  prevent  it.  We 
are  all  fully  committed  to  this  Christian  truth.  But,  unfortunately 
there  are  people  who  are  indolent,  thriftless,  selfish,  and  sinful.  Yet, 
they  are  voters  and  thus  they  have  influence  with  politicians.  But 
they  are  also  human  beings  and  therefore  our  brothers.  They  need 
to  be  helped  to  reform  and  helped  to  opportunities  where  they  can 
work  for  what  they  get  and  thus  become  self-respecting.  But  is  it  not 
demoralizing  to  them  to  agree  with  the  idea  that  the  world  owes 
them  a  living,  irrespective  of  their  worthiness?  As  a  matter  of  fact 
should  not  worthiness  always  be  a  prime  factor  in  determining  the 
rewards  given  to  anyone?  Is  not  this  what  our  religion  teaches  us? 
Could  divine  justice  be  otherwise  based?  Eternal  progress,  a  beau- 
tiful doctrine,  is  based  on  worthiness. 

Let  us  refer  to  another  phase  of  our  theme — that  of  selfishness 
as  seen  exhibited  by  some  officials  and  members  of  organized  labor. 
I  think  it  very  unfortunate  for  all  concerned — union  members  and  the 
public — that  these  organizations  and  groups  have  been  pampered  by 
selfish  politicians  and  others  until  they  have  become  a  dominating 
factor  in  the  politics  of  this  country.  Now,  I  believe  wholeheartedly 
in  labor  unions  and  in  collective  bargaining.  But  the  idea  of  "the 
closed  shop,"  as  we  commonly  understand  the  expression,  is  very 
repugnant  to  me.  As  I  see  it,  "the  closed  shop"  is  based  upon  selfish- 
ness run  riot.  It  ignores  the  basic  principles  that  all  men  are  equal 
before  the  law  and  no  one  should  be  deprived  of  his  right  to  "life, 
liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness."  This  is  the  very  foundation 
upon  which  this  republic  was  founded.  To  weaken  or  destroy  the 
foundation  is  to  endanger  the  very  existence  of  our  republic.  We 
frequently  use  the  expression  "our  American  way  of  life,"  unmindful 
of  the  fact  that  the  true  American  way  of  life  is  based  upon  our  divine- 
ly inspired  Constitution,  as  it  was  interpreted  by  the  ablest  legal 
minds  in  this  country  during  the  first  century  and  a  quarter  of  our 
national  history. 

But  now — is  it  due  to  the  emergencies  of  war? — bureaucrats 
have  taken  over.  Personal  liberties  have  been  severely  restricted 
and  in  order  to  serve  his  country  in  a  war-service  or  war-production 
plant,  or  in  some  other  plants,  a  man  must  join  a  union,  so  it  is  said, 
and  pay  initiation  fees,  sometimes  high,  as  well  as  dues,  as  required 
by  closed-shop  agreements.  Recently  I  was  told  a  plant  needed  a 
skilled  worker.  One  was  obtained  through  the  employment  agency. 
He  was  a  drinker.  At  length  he  was  discharged  after  twelve  days 
of  bungling  work,  because  of  being  continually  under  the  influence 
of  liquor.  The  plant  had  been  operating  open  shop,  though  the  em- 
ployees had  a  union  of  their  own.  The  drunkard  appealed  to  his 
union  with  the  result  that  the  company  was  ordered  by  a  bureau- 
cratic agency  to  bring  him  back,  to  pay  him  the  high  wages  for  lost 
time,  and  to  make  a  closed-shop  agreement  with  the  drunkard's  union 
without  an  election  being  held  to  determine  who  were  entitled  to 
bargaining  rights.    All  the  company  workers,  not  members  of  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


33 


drinker's  union,  and  largely  in  the  majority,  I  was  informed,  were 
thus  forced  to  join  a  union  they  did  not  prefer.  But  no  appeal  to  the 
courts  was  permitted.  Was  this  procedure  in  harmony  with  the  re- 
quirements of  the  golden  rule  and  of  the  Constitution? 

It  is  said,  however,  the  closed-shop  is  necessary  for  the  success 
of  the  union  movement.  If  so,  let  the  union  movement  fail.  We  must 
not  deny  any  man  his  free  agency  or  take  from  him  his  right  to  "life, 
liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness."  The  right  to  work  is  abso- 
lutely fundamental.  I  repeat,  I  am  in  hearty  sympathy  with  the  or- 
ganization of  labor  and  with  collective  bargaining,  that  is,  with  the 
plan  of  a  committee  of  employees  meeting  regularly  with  employers 
to  consider  all  matters  of  mutual  concern.  But  in  my  feelings  I  am 
strongly  opposed  to  the  "closed  shop,"  as  the  term  is  commonly  un- 
derstood. And  I  do  not  believe  the  "closed  shop"  is  essential  to  the 
success  of  labor  unions,  operated  on  principles  of  right,  fairness,  lib- 
erty, and  justice.  Did  not  Samuel  Gompers  also  have  this  view? 
Further,  should  any  organization,  operated  on  principles  antagonistic 
to  these,  be  tolerated  in  America?  Would  it  be  tolerable  for  the 
Church  to  say  to  its  people  living  in  Logan,  or  Provo,  where  we  are 
in  the  majority,  you  must  not  permit  non-tithepayers  to  live  among 
you?  Certainly  not.  Yes,  the  right  of  every  American  citizen  to 
"life,  liberty  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness"  should  be  protected,  be 
he  Mormon,  Jew,  Gentile,  infidel,  or  pagan,  white,  yellow  or  black, 
union  member  or  independent.  Every  American  citizen  should  be 
free  to  do  as  he  pleases  so  long  as  he  does  not  infringe  on  the  rights 
of  others. 

Right  now  there  is  a  pressure  movement  on  to  raise  wages  of 
workers  in  war  industries.  Do  those  sponsoring  this  movement  recog- 
nize that  there  are  millions  of  workers  in  America,  engaged  in  es- 
sential industries,  whose  incomes  did  not  increase  during  the  last 
three  years  in  anything  like  the  proportion  to  those  of  workers  in  war 
industries?  In  fact,  because  of  the  rise  in  the  cost  of  living,  the  net 
income  of  multitudes  of  Americans  is  less  today  than  it  was  three 
years  ago.  Can  this  be  said  of  any  worker  in  war  industries?  Figures 
say  not.  If  another  raise  in  wages  of  these  war  workers  should  now 
be  made,  would  there  not  be  a  still  greater  discrimination  against 
these  multitudes?  The  situation  is  extremely  complex.  But  is  there 
any  fair-minded  citizen,  be  he  a  union  or  a  nonunion  American,  who 
wants  to  profit  at  the  expense  of  his  neighbors?  Let  us  hope  not. 

My  time  is  up,  so  I  must  close.  Of  course  a  multitude  of  illustra- 
tions could  be  given  of  the  fact  that  few,  if  any,  of  us  fully  keep  the 
second  great  commandment.  We  are  all  in  need  of  repentance.  Let 
each  of  us  search  his  own  heart  and  make  sure  that  it  beats  in  har- 
mony with  the  divine  will  and  then  act  accordingly.  In  my  humble 
judgment,  lasting  peace — certainly  worth  the  price — in  our  beloved 
America,  as  in  the  world  at  large,  must  be  based  upon  living  accept- 
ably before  God  the  second  great  commandment.  Brotherly  love 
must  prevail.   Liberty  and  freedom  under  wise  and  righteous  laws, 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  First  Day 


administered  in  harmony  with  the  provisions  of  our  divinely  inspired 
Constitution  must  be  preserved.  Selfishness  and  greed  must  be  sub- 
dued and  righteousness  exalted.  The  Lord  help  each  of  us  to  this 
end,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  o[  the  Seventy 

Dear  Brethren:  I  am  very  happy  to  be  with  you  in  our  confer- 
ence, and  I  trust  that  I  may  contribute  to  the  spirituality  of  our  meet- 
ings held  during  the  days  of  this  conference. 

Faith  and  Works  Consistent  With  Righteous  Life 

We  as  a  people  are  trying  to  correlate,  and  with  considerable 
success,  our  faith  and  works,  knowing  that  this  type  of  combination 
will  bring  to  us  the  best  in  life  and  a  better  reward  in  the  future  life. 

It  has  always  seemed  strange  to  me  that  so  many  of  our  friends 
expect  us  to  live  more  consistently  according  to  our  faith  than  they 
expect  other  people  to  live  their  faith.  Perhaps  it  is  because  they  are 
acquainted  with  our  teachings  and  know  that  we  emphasize  the  fact 
that  our  salvation  is  so  dependent  upon  how  righteously  we  live  here 
upon  the  earth.  That  well-known  saying  of  the  Apostle  James, 
"  .  .  .shew  me  thy  faith  without  thy  works,  and  I  will  shew  thee  my 
faith  by  my  works"  (James  2:18),  is  consistent,  practical,  and  effic- 
ient. 

In  talking  to  a  visitor  one  time  on  Temple  Block,  he  inquired 
about  our  religion  and  asked  for  an  explanation  about  our  faith  and 
our  Church.  As  usual,  I  commenced  immediately  to  quote  from  the 
Articles  of  Faith  and  explained  about  the  establishment  of  the 
Church.   In  a  short  time  he  made  this  remark: 

I  am  not  concerned  particularly  with  what  you  believe  or  have  writ- 
ten; I  am  more  concerned  as  to  how  efficiently  you  carry  out  the  things 
that  you  believe  and  have  written. 

A  similar  thought  was  expressed  by  a  musician  who  had  been 
brought  here  from  the  east  by  the  M.I.A.  to  judge  some  of  our  con- 
tests at  a  June  conference.  On  a  Friday  evening  we  were  at  Saltair 
where  the  dance  festival  was  being  held.  The  dancers  had  been 
well-trained  and  were  so  efficient  that  they  could  execute  the  differ- 
ent intricate  steps  and  formation  with  considerable  skill,  and  because 
of  the  precision  and  order  it  was  very  beautiful.  In  order  to  see  bet- 
ter, the  man  from  the  east  and  some  of  the  rest  of  us  stood  on  the 
band  stand  and  watched  the  demonstration  on  the  dancing  floor. 
.    A  while  later,  he  made  this  comment: 

'  The  thing  I  am  wondering  about  is,  after  seeing  all  these  young  people 

;  on  the  floor  so  perfect  in  their  deportment  and  their  culture,  just  what  will 
happen  when  they  finish  this  demonstration  and  commence  to  dance  the 
regular  dances  and  act,  so  to  speak,  as  they  please.  If  I  go  into  your  wards 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


35 


or  your  stakes,  will  I  find  the  same  type  of  beauty  and  culture  that  I  find 
on  the  floor  tonight? 

■  This  same  thought  is  given  prominence  by  the  Apostle  James  in 
this  statement: 

If  a  brother  or  sister  be  naked,  and  destitute  of  daily  food,  And  one 
of  you  say  unto  them,  Depart  in  peace,  be  ye  warmed  and  filled;  notwith- 
standing ye  give  them  not  those  things  which  are  needful  to  the  body; 
what  doth  it  profit?  Even  so  faith,  if  it  hath  not  works,  is  dead,  being  alone. 
(James  2:15,  16,  17.) 

When  our  friends  see  us  in  action,  doing  the  things  we  have 
been  taught  to  do,  their  faith  and  confidence  in  us  increases  and  is  a 
testimony  to  them  of  the  worth-whileness  of  the  gospel. 

A  Practical  Demonstration 

I  remember  hearing  of  a  man  who  was  very  sick  in  one  of  our 
wards.  His  crops  needed  planting.  He  was  the  only  one  on  the 
farm,  his  boys  having  gone  to  war.  If  he  couldn't  get  out  and  plant, 
he  would  have  no  crops  in  the  fall.  A  number  of  his  neighbors  and 
members  of  his  quorum,  hearing  of  his  condition,  assembled  at  his 
farm  at  a  given  time  with  their  plows  and  all  other  utensils  necessary 
to  prepare  the  ground  and  plant  the:  crops.  In  a  short  time  it  was  all 
done,  and  the  brother  and  his  family  were  assured  of  the  necessary 
food  and  money  at  the  harvest  time.  That  was  a  demonstration  of 
the  Gospel  in  action. 

It  is  just  the  same  in  thinking  about  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  I 
am  certain  the  majority  of  our  boys  who  are  away  are  living  up  to 
the  principles  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  doing  it  splendidly.  Oc- 
casionally we  find  some  boy  who  may  not  do  this. 

An  incident  was  related  of  one  of  these  boys.  We  had  a  young 
man  who  had  just  gone  into  the  army  and  who  had  only  recently  be- 
come a  member  of  the  Church.  He  was  explaining  to  a  number  of 
other  soldiers  about  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  our  people  living  so 
closely  to  that  part  of  our  faith.  An  officer  came  along  who  was  also 
one  of  our  people  and,  hearing  the  discussion,  said  to  this  young  man: 

"I  wonder  why  you  want  to  be  so  fanatical  about  these  things.  I 
am  quite  sure  that  you  know  as  the  rest  of  us  know  that  no  one  will 
be  shut  out  of  heaven  because  he  smokes  a  cigaret  or  takes  a  drink." 

Works  Are  the  Proof  of  Faith 

The  splendid  testimony  of  President  Grant  this  morning  would 
rather  convince  a  fellow  that  it  is  not  so  much  the  one  cigaret  that  is 
against  him  but  what  it  leads  up  to  and  finishes  with.  Once  we  leave 
the  road  of  right,  it  is  often  very  difficult  to  find  our  way  back  to  it 
again. 

In  my  visits  to  some  of  our  wards,  I  see  so  many  of  our  meeting- 
houses not  so  well-filled  at  sacrament  sessions.  We  often  read  in 
the  papers  the  statement  that  people  are  not  going  to  the  churches 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  First  Day 


on  Sunday,  and  because  of  the  lack  of  attendance  many  churches  are 
being  closed. 

I  wonder  whether  we  are  making  the  necessary  effort  to  prove 
to  the  Lord  that  we  not  only  have  faith  but  also  works  in  honoring 
and  keeping  his  holy  day  sacred.  Perhaps  we  need  to -repent  and 
indicate  to  our  friends  that  our  religion  has  the  vitality  in  it  not  only 
to  keep  our  meetinghouses  open,  but  also  to  crowd  them  with  our 
membership  because  we  love  the  Lord  enough  to  keep  His  command- 
ments. 

May  our  Heavenly  Father  bless  us  that  we  may  be  so  consist- 
ent in  our  living  that  he  can  say  to  us,  "Well  done,  thou  good  and 
faithful  servant:  thou  hast  been  faithful  over  a  few  things,  I  will  make 
thee  ruler  over  many  things:  enter  thou  into  the  joy  of  the  Lord," 
(Matt.  25:21),  I  pray  in  Jesus*  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

Paul  declared:  "For  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Christ: 
for  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation."  (Rom.  1:16.)  Others  de- 
fine the  gospel  as  tidings  of  great  joy,  some  as  the  body  of  doctrine 
promulgated  by  the  Savior  and  his  apostles,  and  it  may  be  termed 
the  constitution  of  God's  kingdom;  but  Paul's  definition  causes  one  to 
pause  and  contemplate  the  intriguing  term  "godly  power"  as  an  ele- 
ment in  the  plan  of  salvation  and  whether  or  not  man  can  acquire  and 
develop  godly  power. 

The  Power  of  God  Made  Manifest 

The  power  of  God  is  manifested  by  and  through  the  priesthood. 
It  was  through  the  power  of  God  that  worlds  were  created,  providing 
a  tangible  evidence  of  God's  power.  The  power  of  God  is  evidenced 
and  keenly  felt  in  righteous  words,  honest  deeds,  sincere  emotions, 
and  clean  thoughts  of  men.  The  power  of  God  is  creative,  both  in 
a  spiritual  and  temporal  sense,  for  all  things  were  created,  first, 
spiritually  and  then  temporally.  By  his  power  the  earth  was  formed; 
by  his  power  light  and  darkness  were  separated;  by  his  power  the 
land  and  water  were  separated;  by  his  power  the  vegetation,  fowls 
of  the  air,  the  fish  of  the  sea,  and  all  earthly  creatures  were  brought 
into  being;  but  the  most  important  of  all  these  was  the  creation  of  man 
in  the  exact  image  of  his  Creator.  The  finite  mind  cannot  compre- 
hend or  understand  the  full  significance  of  the  creation  nor  of  the 
principles  and  the  powers  involved  therein,  but  we  do  know  that  the 
creation  was  a  great  and  stupendous  work  accomplished  by  actual, 
spiritual,  mental,  and,  who  knows  but  what  some  physical  effort  was 
necessary  on  the  part  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  There  must  have  been 
an  element  of  work,  of  effort,  in  it,  or  else  why  the  declaration  found 
recorded  in  Genesis  2:2,  "And  on  the  seventh  day  God  ended  his 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHUN  37 


work  which  he  had  made;  and  he  rested  on  the  seventh  day  from  all 
his  work  which  he  had  made,"  an  indication  of  the  necessity  for  rest 
after  such  a  tremendous  accomplishment. 

Adam's  Experiences 

When  Adam  was  placed  in  the  Garden  of  Eden  to  enjoy  its 
beauty,  comforts,  and  food  already  produced,  the  Lord  enjoined  him 
merely  to  prune  the  garden  and  keep  it  in  good  condition;  but  soon 
thereafter  the  fall  came  as  foreordained,  and  Adam  was  cast  from 
the  garden.  He  found  himself  in  the  lone  and  dreary  world,  far  dif- 
ferent from  the  orderly  Garden  of  Eden.  The  voice  of  the  Creator 
declared  to  him  that  if  he  were  to  eat,  in  fact  to  exist,  it  would  depend 
upon  his  efforts  whereby  in  the  sweat  of  his  brow  and  the  toil  of  his 
hands  should  he  eat  his  bread,  pointing  out,  too,  that  noxious  weeds 
and  thistles  would  stand  in  his  way,  creating  the  necessity  for  more 
work  and  effort.  With  Adam  leaving  the  garden  there  came  into  be- 
ing the  most  important  project  among  men,  namely,  that  of  agricul- 
ture which  produces  food  and  raiment  for  man,  the  first  two  physical 
requisites,  and  moreover  affords  more  actual  work  than  any  other  in- 
dustry. But  Adam  was  not  left  unqualified  to  meet  this  new  condi- 
tion, for  his  Eternal  Father  had  bestowed  upon  him  the  mental  and 
physical  potentialities  to  create  by  his  labors  all  the  necessities  of 
life.  So  man  from  the  beginning  possessed  the  potential  power  of 
creating  his  requirements  through  work.  The  words  "create"  and 
"work"  are  synonymous.  Hence,  the  power  of  God  is  work,  by  which 
I  mean  the  conscious  exercise  of  spiritual,  mental  or  physical  effort  and 
activity. 

Man's  Growth  Comes  Through  Work 

The  very  spiritual,  mental,  physical  makeup  of  man  fits  him  for 
work  and  the  acquirement  of  godly  power  therethrough.  Think,  if 
you  will,  of  all  God's  creations,  there  are  none  comparable  to  man 
spiritually,  mentally,  or  physically.  In  the  mind  of  man,  the  plan  is 
formulated,  and  physical  instruments,  such  as  the  hand,  bring  into 
actual  existence  the  plan  of  the  mind.  There  is  nothing  comparable 
to  the  hand  as  a  useful  tool.  The  things  that  can  be  done  and  accom- 
plished by  the  hand  are  innumerable.  The  most  delicate  mechanical 
instruments,  such  as  the  electric  eye,  the  radio,  radar,  all  forms  of 
transportation  and  buildings,  are  the  creations,  first,  of  the  mind,  in- 
fluenced by  the  spirit  of  inspiration,  and,  secondly,  the  hand  of  man — 
man,  the  son  of  the  Eternal  Creator. 

We  have  spoken  of  man's  mental  and  physical  attributes  but 
what  of  the  spiritual?  There  is  no  question  but  what  the  development 
of  the  spirit  depends  entirely  upon  the  mental  and  the  physical  work 
of  man.  Therefore,  any  individual  who  denies  himself  the  privilege 
of  work  denies  himself  salvation  and  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of 
God.   He  denies  himself  the  power  of  creation.  First,  he  imposes  on 


38  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  First  Dag 

others  and  their  efforts  the  responsibility  of  providing  temporal  sus- 
tenance. Secondly,  his  mind  being  idle,  he  becomes  open  to  the  in- 
fluences of  the  evil  one,  for  as  it  has  been  said,  "An  idle  mind  is  the 
devil's  workshop."  Mental  progression  stops.  "No  man  can  be 
saved  in  ignorance."  Physically  he  becomes  weak,  subject  to  disease, 
and  as  medical  science  has  declared,  his  span  of  life  is  shortened  ten 
to  twenty  years,  which  is  logical  because  the  body,  like  a  machine  out 
of  use,  becomes  rusty  and  obsolete.  Spiritually,  he  loses  contact  with 
the  divine.  His  spiritual  body  literally  starves  and  becomes  ema- 
ciated and  weak.  The  experiences  of  mortality  have  done  him  but 
little  good. 

The  Lord  knew  his  children  in  the  spiritual  world,  fully  realizing 
that  upon  their  return  to  his  presence,  there  would  be  a  great  differ- 
ence in  achievements — some  taking  full  advantage  of  the  opportuni- 
ties in  mortality,  thereby  achieving  highly.  Others  would  achieve 
in  a  partial  way.  Then  there  might  be  the  indolent  and  careless. 
Therefore,  out  of  justice  and  proper  rewarding,  the  Lord  indicated 
that  his  children  would  be  judged  by  their  works  and  very  properly 
established  three  glories  as  a  reward — the  celestial  for  those  who 
achieved  highly,  the  terrestrial  for  those  who  achieved  partially,  and 
the  telestial  for  those  who  were  indolent  and  careless. 

Idleness  A  Demoralizing  Agency 

The  modern  day  trends  in  religion  advocate  the  corrupt  phil- 
osophy that  man's  salvation  is  assured  by  grace  alone,  which  contra- 
dicts the  teaching  of  the  Master,  "Faith  without  works  is  dead."  And 
why  should  faith  without  works  be  dead?  Because  the  godly  power 
of  work,  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  has  not  been  invoked. 
Moreover,  men  are  being  taught  a  demoralizing,  and  might  I  say  a 
most  degenerate  doctrine  that  the  world  owes  them  a  living  without 
physical  or  mental  effort  upon  their  part.  There  has  been  nothing  in 
history  which  has  undermined  and  destroyed  the  moral  fabric  of  the 
people  more  than  this  false  doctrine,  not  a  new  doctrine,  for  it  had 
its  inception  in  the  council  of  heaven  when  the  Son  of  the  Morning, 
Lucifer,  proposed  to  save  mankind  without  any  effort  upon  their  part. 
Men  are  encouraged  to  lean  upon  the  government  for  their  suste- 
nance rather  than  to  depend  upon  their  God-given  powers  to  create 
by  the  sweat  of  their  brow  and  the  work  of  their  hands  the  necessi- 
ties of  life.  It  is  odd  that  there  are  those  who  think  that  our  govern- 
ment has  an  inexhaustible  resource  of  money  which  will  always  be 
available. 

Robert  Ingersoll's  Opinion  of  Government  Support 

On  this  point  may  I  quote  Robert  Ingersoll.  I  do  not  agree  with 
him  on  many  things,  but  on  this  point,  he  is  right.  Said  he: 

In  the  first  place  the  government  does  not  support  the  people,  the  people 
support  the  government.  The  government  is  a  perpetual  pauper.  It  passes 
'round  the  hat  and  solicits  contributions;  but  then  you  must  remember  that 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  39 


the  government  has  a  musket  behind  the  hat.  The  government  produces 
nothing.  It  does  not  plow  the  land,  it  does  not  sow  corn,  it  does  not  grow 
trees.  The  government  is  a  perpetual  consumer.  We  support  the  govern- 
ment. Now,  the  idea  that  the  government  can  make  money  for  you  and 
me  to  live  on — it  is  the  same  as  though  my  hired  man  should  issue  certifi- 
cates of  my  indebtedness  to  him  for  me  to  live  on.  Some  people  tell  us  that 
the  government  can  impress  its  sovereignty  on  a  piece  of  paper,  and  that  is 
money.  Well,  if  it  is,  what  is  the  use  of  wasting  it  making  one  dollar  bills? 
It  takes  no  more  ink  and  no  more  paper — why  not  make  one  thousand  dollar 
bills?  Why  not  make  a  hundred  million  dollar  bills  and  all  be  billionaires? 
How  do  you  get  your  money?  By  work.  You  have  to  dig  it  out  of  the 
ground.  That  is  where  it  comes  from.  Men  have  always  had  a  kind  of 
hope  that  something  could  be  made  out  of  nothing. 

Labor  A  Sacred  Obligation 

The  only  preventive  for  further  decadence  in  the  morals,  in- 
telligence, spiritual,  and  materialistic  affairs  of  man  is  not  less  work, 
but  more  work,  the  proper  understanding  between  employee  and  em- 
ployer, both  of  them  realizing  that  they  have  sacred  obligations  to 
one  another.  He  who  would  hire  the  laborer  should  realize  that  there 
is  imposed  upon  him  a  sacred  obligation,  namely,  as  stated  in  Luke 
that  the  laborer  is  worthy  of  his  hire.  On  the  other  hand,  he  who 
labors  with  his  hands  should  remember  his  obligation  of  an  honest 
day's  labor.  It  is  as  the  writer  of  Proverbs  declares  in  10:4:  "He  be- 
cometh  poor  that  dealeth  with  a  slack  hand:  but  the  hand  of  the  dili- 
gent maketh  rich."  The  last  sentence  of  this  verse  that  "the  hand  of 
the  diligent  maketh  rich,"  impels  me  to  quote  to  you  a  statement  of 
Abraham  Lincoln: 

Labor  was  prior  to  capital,  but  property  is  the  fruit  of  labor.  Property  is 
desirable  and  is  a  positive  good  to  the  world.  That  some  should  be  rich 
shows  that  others  may  become  rich  and  hence  is  just  encouragement  to  in- 
dustry and  enterprise.  Let  not  he  who  is  houseless  pull  down  the  house 
of  another,  but  let  him  work  diligently  and  build  one  for  himself,  thus  by 
example  insuring  that  his  own  shall  be  safe  from  violence  when  built. 

The  power  of  God  which  is  work,  creative  work,  as  I  have  defined 
it,  is  the  foundation  stone  of  salvation,  temporally,  spiritually,  and 
mentally.  The  cornerstone  on  which  this  great  republic  rests  is  that  of 
work  and  free  enterprise.  Should  the  cornerstone  deteriorate,  the 
national  structure  will  collapse.  The  cornerstone  must  be  strength- 
ened and  reinforced  by  greater  endeavor,  for  there  is  now  resting  up- 
on this  nation  a  burden  of  debt  the  like  of  which  the  world  has  never 
known  before,  stupendous  beyond  the  imagination  and  comprehen- 
sion of  the  average  mind;  and  its  liquidation,  if  it  is  liquidated  ac- 
cording to  just  and  honest  principles,  can  only  be  accomplished 
through  the  application  of  godly  power,  namely,  work  on  the  part  of  its 
citizens.  This  statement  is  sustained  by  an  excerpt  taken  from  a  bul- 
letin published  by  the  Tax  Foundation  in  New  York  City: 

The  relation  between  average  earning  power  and  the  average  debt 
load  on  the  individual  is  significant.  A  large  part  of  the  debt  is  held  by 
banks,  insurance  companies,  and  other  savings  and  investment  institu- 


40  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  6  First  Day 


tions.  The  future  welfare  of  millions  of  people  depends  on  the  continued 
solvency  of  these  institutions  and  that  depends  on  maintaining  the  value 
of  their  assets,  including  government  bonds.  But  the  value  of  the  govern- 
ment bonds  depends  on  the  labor  and  earnings  of  the  people  and  on  their 
capacity  to  provide  .enough  taxes  to  pay  the  interest  and  redeem  the  princi- 
pal of  the  debt. 

Anything  short  of  this  will  bring  bankruptcy  and  chaos  to  all. 
One  cannot  think  or  speak  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  as 
being  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  spiritually,  mentally,  and 
temporally  but  what  there  comes  to  mind  the  memory  of  the  intrepid 
pioneer — he  who  saw  and  understood  the  Gospel  with  all  its  implica- 
tions and  obligations,  accepting  them  wholly,  willingly,  and  with  no 
reservations  as  to  work — hence  his  memorable  achievements.  There 
stands  to  his  memory  an  everlasting  monument  in  the  form  of  the  re- 
stored Church  of  Christ  a  great  state,  the  emblem  of  which  is  the 
beehive — a  symbol  of  industry,  thrift,  and  no  place  for  the  idler  but 
an  attitude  of  helpfulness  to  the  aged,  the  widowed,  and  the  father- 
less. As  heirs  to  all  these  blessings,  there  stands  before  us  the  chal- 
lenge of  the  pioneer,  and  if  we  accept  it,  we  will  take  from  his 
gnarled  hand  of  toil  the  torch  of  the  gospel  of  salvation  to  exemplify 
its  ideals,  its  saving  power  in  unceasing  work. 

We  are  a  blessed  people  in  that  we  have  a  living  prophet  of 
God,  whose  counsel  on  the  matter  of  work  is  as  follows: 

I  have  never  seen  the  day  when  I  was  not  willing  to  do  the  meanest 
work  [if  there  is  such  a  thing  as  mean  work  which  I  doubt]  rather  than  be 
idle.  ...  I  assert  with  confidence  that  the  law  of  success  here  and  hereafter 
is  to  have  a  humble  and  prayerful  heart  and  to  work,  work,  work. 

Of  all  Christian  peoples  and  American  citizens,  we  should  stand 
out  preeminently  as  a  people  full  of  faith  in  the  Creator,  a  people  of 
integrity,  and  a  people  which  demonstrates  and  proves  to  the  world 
that  the  power  of  God  in  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  the 
power  and  the  efficacy  of  work  as  I  have  defined  it. 

I  humbly  pray  that  every  man,  woman,  and  child  in  Israel  will 
understand  the  full  significance  of  work,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


A  vocal  solo,  "In  Native  Worth"  (from  "Creation") — Haydn, 
was  sung  by  J.  Marcus  Griffin. 

ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Dear  brothers  and  the  radio  listeners: 

In  attending  the  genealogical  sessions  of  the  quarterly  con- 
ferences in  many  stakes  there  has  been  sung  beautifully  the  song, 
"Open  the  Gates  of  the  Temple,"  which  ends  with  the  solemn  testi- 
mony: "I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives,  and  because  he  lives,  I 
shall  live,"  and  I  always  feel  to  say  with  Luke: 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


41 


...  I  thank  thee,  O  Father,  Lord  of  heaven  and  earth,  that  thou  hast 
hid  these  things  from  the  wise  and  prudent,  and  hast  revealed  them  unto 
babes:  .  .  .  (Luke  10:21.) 

The  Requirements  in  Obtaining  A  Testimony 

In  a  high  council  testimony  meeting  some  time  ago  I  heard 
one  of  the  number  say:  "I  am  happy  in  the  work  and  have  made 
research  and  this  Church  and  its  doctrines  satisfy  me  better  than 
anything  I  have  found."  Then  another  arose  with  deep  feeling  de- 
clared: "This  is  the  work  of  God,  I  know  it.  It  is  the  Lord's 
eternal  plan  of  exaltation.  I  know  that  Jesus  lives  and  is  the  Re- 
deemer." I  was  uplifted  by  his  sureness.  And  I  went  to  the  revel- 
ations of  the  Lord  to  see  how  it  is  that  some  are  so  sure  while 
others  are  passive  or  have  doubts. 

I  recall  the  experience  of  the  Apostles  when  the  Lord  mani- 
fested himself  to  them  after  his  resurrection  and  found  a  group 
who  accepted  him,  but  one  of  the  quorum  being  absent  declared 
that  he  would  not  believe  unless  he  could  see  in  the  Lord's  hands 
the  print  of  the  nails,  and  thrust  his  hand  into  the  wounded  side. 
And  when  the  Savior,  anticipating  his  doubt,  had  commanded 
Thomas  to  thrust  forth  his  hand  and  feel  and  know,  he  said: 

.  .  .  Thomas,  because  thou  hast  seen  me,  thou  hast  believed:  blessed 
are  they  that  have  not  seen,  and  yet  have  believed.  (John  20:29.) 

The  Lord  thus  indicated  that  a  knowledge  of  spiritual  things 
may  be  had  without  perception  through  the  five  senses.  He  has 
keys  by  which  we  may  have  a  knowledge  of  his  work.  In  the 
temple  he  taught  the  Jews.  They  marvelled  at  his  knowledge  and 
positiveness  and  said:   "He  speaks  as  one  having  authority." 

The  Redeemer  declared: 

. .  .  My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his  that  sent  me.  If  any  man  will  do 
his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God  or  whether  I 
speak  of  myself.  (John  7:16,  17.) 

What  is  it  to  know  of  the  doctrine?  It  is  an  unwavering  as- 
surance. The  Lord  has  offered  a  rich  reward  but  has  provided  that 
it  can  be  had  only  by  meeting  certain  requirements.  He  has  said: 

There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foundations 
of  this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated — and  when  we  ob- 
tain any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law  upon  which  it 
is  predicted.   (Doc.  &  Cov.  130:20,  21.) 

In  this  case  the  blessing  promised  is  a  knowledge  of  the  divinity 
of  the  doctrine.  And  in  this  case  the  law  or  requirement  is  that 
one  must  "do  his  will."  Most  of  us  know  what  his  will  is,  far  more 
than  we  have  disposition  or  ability  to  comply. 

The  Lord  has  reiterated  his  promise  with  much  emphasis: 

If  thou  shalt  ask,  thou  shalt  receive  revelation  upon  revelation,  knowl- 
edge upon  knowledge,  that  thou  mayest  know  the  mysteries  and  peace- 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  6  First  Day 


able  things — that  which  bringeth  joy,  that  which  bringeth  life  eternal. 
(Doc.  &  Cov.  42:61.) 

Spiritual  Blessings  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom 

We  preach  and  discuss  the  revelation  known  as  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  and  usually  think  of  the  temporal  blessings  that  will 
come  to  us  in  increased  health  if  we  live  in  harmony  with  its 
teaching,  that  we  might  run  and  not  be  weary  and  walk  and  not 
faint,  and  the  destroying  angel  should  pass  us  by,  but  there  is  also 
a  spiritual  aspect  which  is  more  far-reaching  and  should  stimulate 
us  to  high  purpose.  The  promise  I  am  thinking  of  is  this: 

And  all  saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking 
in  obedience  to  the  commandments  .  .  .  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treas- 
ures of  knowledge,  even  hidden  treasures.  .  .  .  (Doc.  &  Cov.  89:18,  19.) 

What  could  be  so  priceless  as  wisdom  and  knowledge,  even 
hidden  treasures?  Surely  the  treasures  here  referred  to  are  not 
those  of  scientific  accomplishments.  Such  will  come  revealed  as 
light  from  heaven  discovered  through  the  research  of  men,  but 
these  hidden  treasures  of  knowledge  in  the  revelation  are  those  which 
can  be  had  only  by  use  of  the  keys  given  which  are:  "Walking  in 
obedience."  And  while  the  discoveries  in  the  physical  world  are 
very  important  to  us  here  in  mortality,  the  spiritual  discovery  of 
a  knowledge  of  God  and  his  program  reach  into  and  through 
eternity. 

And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee  the  only  true  God, 
and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent.  (John  17:3.) 

A  Testimony  of  the  Truth  Comes  Through 
Righteous  Living 

Another  revelation  gives  us  this: 

.  .  .  For  unto  you  it  is  given  to  know  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom, 
but  unto  the  world  it  is  not  given  to  know  them.    (Doc.  &  Cov.  42:65.) 

which  indicates  another  requirement:  One  must  be  baptized  and 
receive  the  Holy  Ghost  and  still  live  the  commandments  to  be  given 
the  knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  the  work.  Mere  passive  accep- 
tance of  the  doctrines  will  not  give  the  testimony;  no  casual  half- 
compliance  with  the  program  will  bring  that  assurance;  but  an  all- 
out  effort  to  live  his  commandments.  We  often  see  this  in  the 
lives  of  members  of  the  Church.  One  said  to  me  in  a  recent  stake 
I  visited,  "I  assiduously  avoid  all  testimony  meetings.  I  can't  take 
the  sentimental  and  emotional  statements  that  some  of  the  people 
make.  I  can't  accept  these  doctrines  unless  I  can  in  a  cold-blooded 
and  rational  way  prove  every  step."  I  knew  this  type  of  man  as 
I  have  met  others  like  him.  In  no  case  had  they  gone  all-out  ta 
live  the  commandments:  Little  or  no  tithing,  only  occasional  at- 
tendance at  meetings,  considerable  criticism  of  the  doctrines,  the 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  43 


organizations  and  the  leaders,  and  we  know  well  why  they  could 
have  no  testimony.  Remember  that  the  Lord  said: 

I,  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do  what  I  say;  but  when  ye  do  not  what 
I  say;  ye  have  no  promise.   (Doc.  6  Cov.  82:10.) 

Such  people  have  failed  to  "do  what  he  says."  Of  course,  they 
have  no  promise. 

On  the  other  hand  we  have  the  missionary  completely  im- 
mersed in  his  work,  giving  to  it  his  every  thought  and  energy,  and 
living  closely  the  commandments.  Almost  without  exception  they 
have  lived  worthily,  kept  the  commandments,  and  have  been  re- 
warded with  a  knowledge  as  promised  by  their  Savior,  in  pro- 
portion to  their  faithfulness.  Consider  also  the  thousands  of  ward, 
quorum,  and  stake  and  mission  leaders  who  have  an  abiding  testi- 
mony. It  is  not  blind  loyalty  but  faithful  observance,  and  turning 
of  keys  which  open  the  storehouse  of  spiritual  knowledge.  The 
Lord  revealed  again  to  the  Prophet  Joseph: 

Verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord:  It  shall  come  to  pass  that  every  soul  who 
forsaketh  his  sins  and  cometh  unto  me,  and  calleth  on  my  name,  and  obey- 
eth  my  voice,  and  keepeth  my  commandments,  shall  see  my  face  and  know 
that  I  am  and  that  I  am  the  true  light  .  .  .  and  ...  the  Father  and  I  are 
one.  (Doc.  &  Cov.  93:1,  2,  3.) 

The  Lord  will  not  discriminate  between  his  children  but  de- 
lights to  own  and  bless  us  all,  if  we  will  let  him.  And  here  he  re- 
veals another  most  important  item — one  must  be  free  from  sin  to 
claim  the  blessing  of  an  unwavering  testimony,  and  sin  is  of  two 
kinds,  those  of  omission  and  those  of  commission. 

When  I  was  a  very  small  boy,  I  was  taught  the  habit  of 
going  to  sacrament  meetings.  Mother  always  took  me  with  her. 
Those  warm  afternoons  I  soon  became  drowsy  and  leaned  over 
on  her  lap  to  sleep.  I  may  not  have  learned  much  from  the  ser- 
mons, but  I  learned  the  habit  of  "going  to  meeting.".  The  habit 
stayed  with  me  through  my  life.  And  even  from  those  early  years 
in  the  testimony  meetings,  I  often  came  home  distressed  by  the  ex- 
pressions of  critical  people  who  took  issue  with  those  who  had 
borne  their  testimonies  with  such  fervor  and  sureness.  "Why  does 
Sister  Blank  say  she  knows  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ?  How  can 
she  know?  Why  does  Brother  Doe  declare  with  such  definiteness 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God  and  that  this  is  the  Church 
and  kingdom  of  God?  I  doubt  if  they  know  any  more  about  it 
than  I  do."  Then  I  refer  these  who  would  rationalize  to  Colos- 
sians  2:8: 

Beware  lest  any  man  spoil  you  through  philosophy  and  vain  deceit, 
after  the  tradition  of  men,  after  the  rudiments  of  the  world,  and  not  after 
Christ. 

But  our  Father  in  heaven  has  repeatedly  promised  such  knowl- 
edge upon  compliance  with  his  commands.    Hear  his  words  jn 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  First  Day 

modern  revelations  speaking  to  those  who  fear  him  and  delight  to 
serve  him  in  righteousness  unto  the  end.    He  says: 

And  to  them  will  I  reveal  all  mysteries,  yea,  all  the  hidden  mysteries 
of  my  kingdom  from  days  of  old,  and  for  ages  to  come,  will  I  make  known 
unto  them  the  good  pleasure  of  my  will  concerning  all  things  pertaining 
to  my  kingdom.  Yea,  even  the  wonders  of  eternity  shall  they  know,  and 
things  to  come  will  I  show  them.  .  .  .  (Doc.  &  Cov.  76:7-8.) 

Promises  of  the  Lord  to  His  People 

It  was  in  1841  that  the  Lord  commanded  the  Prophet  to  re- 
lease his  brother,  Hyrum,  from  the  Presidency  that  he  might  func- 
tion as  the  Patriarch.  In  his  place  William  Law  was  called  and  was 
instructed  through  the  seer: 

...  let  him  be  humble  before  me,  and  be  without  guile,  and  he  shall 
receive  of  my  Spirit,  even  the  Comforter,  which  shall  manifest  unto  him  the 
truth  of  all  things.  .  .  .  (Doc.  &  Cov.  124:97.) 

And  a  similar  promise  was  made  to  Sidney  Rigdon  as  he  was  called 
to  be  a  spokesman  to  the  Prophet  Joseph: 

And  I  will  give  unto  him  power  to  be  mighty  in  testimony.  And  I 
will  give  unto  thee  power  to  be  mighty  in  expounding  all  scriptures  and 
that  thou  mayest  be  a  spokesman  unto  him,  and  he  shall  be  a  revelator 
unto  thee,  that  thou  mayest  know  the  certainty  of  all  things  pertaining  to 
the  things  of  my  kingdom  on  the  earth.   (Doc.  &  Cov.  100:10-11.) 

The  Lord  seems  to  extend  the  same  privileges  and  makes  the  same 
promises  to  all  his  people: 

...  I  the  Lord  am  willing  to  make  these  things  known  unto  all  flesh. 
(Doc.  &  Cov.  1:34.) 

Seek  not  for  riches  but  for  wisdom,  and  behold,  the  mysteries  of  God 
shall  be  unfolded  unto  you,  and  then  shall  you  be  made  rich.  Behold,  he 
that  hath  eternal  life  is  rich.  (Doc.  &  Cov.  6:7.) 

Gospel  Truth  Revealed  Through  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 

It  should  be  kept  in  mind  that  God  cannot  be  found  through 
research  alone,  nor  his  gospel  understood  and  appreciated  by  study 
only,  for  no  one  may  know  the  Father  or  the  Son  but  "he  to  whom 
the  Son  will  reveal  him."  (Luke  10:22.)  The  skeptic  will  some 
day  either  in  time  or  eternity  learn  to  his  sorrow  that  his  .egotism 
has  robbed  him  of  much  joy  and  growth,  and  that  as  has  been  de- 
creed by  the  Lord:  The  things  of  God  cannot  be  understood  by 
the  spirit  of  man;  that  man  cannot  by  himself  find  out  God  or  his 
program;  that  no  amount  of  research  nor  rationalizing  will  bring 
a  testimony,  but  it  must  come  through  the  heart  when  compliance 
with  the  program  has  made  the  person  eligible  to  receive  that 
reward.  The  Savior  could  have  taken  highly  trained  minds  from 
the  temple  porches  for  the  chief  builders  of  his  kingdom,  but  he 
went  to  the  seashore  to  get  humble  fishermen.    He  wanted  men 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  45 


who  would  not  depend  upon  their  own  intellects  only  to  ferret  out 
the  truths,  but  unbiased  men  to  whom  he  might  reveal  his  new  pro- 
gram, men  who  were  trusting  and  sincere  and  willing  to  serve. 
He  tested  Peter  on  one  occasion  by  asking  him  to  identify  him, 
and  with  power  and  sure  of  his  grounds  the  first  apostle  declared: 
"Thou  art  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God."  (Matt.  16:16.) 
Surely  the  Redeemer  must  have  been  pleased,  and  he  then  re- 
vealed the  source  of  Peter's  knowledge  by  saying: 

.  .  .  Blessed  are  thou,  Simon  Bar-jona:  for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not 
revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven.  (Matt.  16:17.) 

There  were  many  trained  and  educated  Jews  in  Jerusalem  who 
rationalized  themselves  completely  out  of  a  testimony  and  the  rich 
spiritual  life.  Though  Jesus  was  among  them  and  they  could  see 
his  miracles  and  hear  his  words,  it  was  still  an  impossibility  for 
those  scribes  and  Pharisees  to  prove  him  to  be  the  Redeemer  by 
any  of  their  mental  processes,  or  by  the  kind  of  proof  that  many 
moderns  require.  But  Peter  and  his  associates,  receptive  as  they 
were,  knew  the  process.  They  lived  the  truth,  and  they  knew  the 
truth,  and  the  truth  made  them  free  and  gave  them  peace. 

Requirements  for  Retaining  A  Testimony 

To  acquire  a  testimony,  then,  one  must  be  in  tune  with  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  keep  his  commandments  and  be  sincere.  Be- 
cause one  does  not  receive  this  positive  assurance  is  no  reason  why 
another  cannot.  To  say  that  another  person  cannot  see  the  light 
because  you  fail  to  comprehend  it  is  to  place  unwarranted  limita- 
tions on  another's  power.  To  say  that  no  one  can  know  of  the 
doctrine  because  you  do  not  is  like  saying  that  there  is  no  germ 
or  virus  because  it  is  not  visible  to  you,  and  is  to  deny  the  word 
of  God. 

To  hold  his  testimony  one  must  bear  it  often  and  live  worthy 
of  it.  The  Lord  declared  his  displeasure  in  the  failure  of  his  people 
to*  bear  testimony. 

Destructive  criticism  of  the  officers  of  the  Church  or  its  doc- 
trines is  sure  to  weaken  and  bring  an  eventual  end  to  one's  testi- 
mony if  persisted  in. 

And  so  there  have  come  ringing  down  through  time  the  testi- 
monies of  men  who  knew  and  bore  witness: 

John,  the  cousin  of  Jesus,  saying: 

"Behold  the  lamb  of  God  which  taketh  away  the  sins  of  the 
world." 

The  apostles  in  the  storm-tossed  ship  exclaiming:  "Of  a  truth 
thou  art  the  Son  of  God." 

The  Prophet  Mormon  from  Nephite  history  declaring:  .  .  . 
God  is  not  a  partial  God — but  he  is  unchangeable  from  all  eternity 
to  all  eternity." 


46  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  6  First  Dag 


Nathaniel,  an  Israelite  in  whom  could  be  found  no  guile: 
"Rabbi,  thou  art  the  Son  of  God.  Thou  art  the  King  of  Israel." 

Andrew,  the  apostle,  who  told  Peter,  his  brother:  "We  have 
found  the  Messiah,  which  is,  being  interpreted,  the,  Christ." 

Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  in  their  positive  declar- 
ation: "That  he  lives"  and  "that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the 
Father." 

And  Job  with  his  unalterable  testimony:  "I  know  that  my  Re- 
deemer lives." 

These  and  countless  others  through  the  centuries  have  "done 
the  will  of  the  Father."  They  have  received  a  knowledge  of  him 
and  his  work.  This  same  promise  is  made  by  our  Lord  to  all  who 
will  do  likewise. 

May  I  add  my  testimony.  This  is  the  work  of  God.  He  is 
at  the  helm.  It  will  go  forward  till  his  glorious  program  is  con- 
summated. I  bear  my  testimony  most  humbly  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brethren  and  fellow  workers: 

In  his  address  this  morning,  President  Clark  spoke  of  postwar 
problems.  They  are  many,  and  they  keep  pounding  upon  our  think- 
ing. President  Clark  enlarged  upon  the  most  important  of  these 
problems.  I  would  like  to  call  your  attention  to  one  or  two  minor, 
though  also  important,  problems,  which  are  being  much  discussed  at 
present.  If  it  seems  to  be  largely  of  a  temporal  nature,  my  defense 
is  thartn  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  there  is  really  no  distinction  be- 
tween the  temporal  and  the  spiritual.  Speaking  to  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith,  the  Lord  said: 

.  .  .  verily  I  say  unto  you  that  all  things  unto  me  are  spiritual,  and  not 
at  any  time  have  I  given  unto  you  a  law  which  was  temporal  .  .  .  (Doc. 
and  Cov.  29:34.) 

Thoughts  On  the  Return  of  the  Soldiers 

At  a  recent  stake  conference,  a  fine  young  man,  a  soldier,  enjoy- 
ing a  brief  furlough,  addressed  the  congregation.  He  was  clearly 
perplexed.  He  wondered  why  in  the  heat  of  battle,  he  had  escaped 
the  bullet  that  took  the  life  of  his  buddy.  He  spoke  of  the  interrup- 
tion of  his  education;  the  frustration  of  his  life's  plans;  and  the  hell 
that  we  call  war,  into  which  he  had  been  catapulted.  He  declared  his 
readiness  to  die,  if  need  be,  for  the  freedom  of  man;  but  wondered 
why  men  should  have  to  die  to  possess  freedom,  which  belongs  to 
every  man  by  the  right  of  his  existence.  "Shall  this  self-destruction 
of  man  continue?"  he  asked.  As  he  sat  down,  he  voiced  the  question 
now  asked  by  millions  of  men:  "What  of  the  future?" 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


47 


I  thought  of  the  80,000  youths  and  young  men  of  our  faith,  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  nearly  all  of  whom  will  return,  after  the  war, 
whole  in  body,  but  perhaps  maimed  in  spirit,  and  scarred  in  memory, 
by  the  unnatural  life  in  the  army  and  navy,  and  by  the  inexpressible 
horrors  of  warfare,  as  conducted  by  "civilized"  man.  They  will  re- 
turn to  a  world  which  has  been  shaken  and  changed  by  the  turmoil 
and  tumult  of  battle  in  the  air,  on  the  land,  and  under  the  sea.  It 
will  be  a  new  world.  They  shall  not  see  again  the  world  they  once 
knew.  The  forces  of  change  will  have  carved  deep  furrows  in  the 
face  of  human  existence. 

These  returning  men  were  torn  from  their  native  soil  by  the 
roots.  In  the  field  of  war,  they  have  been  nurtured  with  the  poison 
of  destruction.  How  to  transplant  them,  to  revive  their  full  vigor, 
and  ensure  normal  growth  after  the  war,  is  perhaps  the  major  prob- 
lem among  the  many  that  will  arise  in  the  proposed  reconstitution 
of  the  world. 

Human  history  does  not  justify  the  belief  that  returning  armies 
will  be  adequately  rehabilitated  by  governmental  efforts.  Grants  of 
small  sums  of  money,  or  the  offering  of  opportunities  to  the  few,  can- 
not restore  that  which  has  been  lost,  or  supply  the  needs  of  the  many 
who  will  need  help.  That  has  been  tried  before,  without  success.  Sal- 
vation by  government,  whether  spiritual  or  temporal,  before  or  after 
a  war,  is  a  delusive  and  elusive  will-o'-the-wisp.  With  God's  help, 
men  win  success  by  self-effort,  and  only  so. 

Duty  Towards  the  Defenders  of  Our  Country 

The  responsibility  for  our  homecoming  boys,  who  are  really  the 
coming  generation,  will  rest,  as  in  ages  past,  upon  the  family  and  the 
home  and  the  cluster  of  neighborhood  families  and  homes.  Each  man 
must  bear  his  own  burden.  Such  help  as  he  needs  must  be  given  by 
family  and  immediate  friends.  By  such  a  distribution  of  a  labor 
among  many  any  task  is  easily  accomplished,  far  beyond  the  power 
of  any  government.  In  every  household  we  must  convert  our  faith 
for  peace,  and  our  love  for  our  boys,  who  have  been  willing  to  face 
death  for  us,  into  sober  planning  and  direct  activity.  We  must  sift 
the  many  possibilities  for  the  benefit  of  the  returning  lads.  This  duty, 
which  we  owe  our  defenders,  cannot  be  shifted  to  others.  Nor  can 
a  central  agency  undertake  it  successfully.  Moreover,  that  is  ever 
the  method  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Now  is  the  time  to  undertake  such  planning  and  the  consequent 
preparation.  There  should  be  no  delay.  We  must  be  prepared. 
Building  is  slower  than  destruction.  Our  boys  may  soon  be  coming 
home.  They  will  then  be  ready  for  the  next  adventure.  We  must 
not  reward  their  sacrifices  with  disappointment.  Rather,  we  must  be 
ready  also  with  the  necessary  advice  and  help.  It  may  be  too  late 
if  we  do  not  begin  now. 

In  this  important  matter,  Latter-day  Saints  must  needs  cling  to 
the  well-established  ideals  of  the  Church.  Among  them  is  one  that 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Fridag.  October  6  First  Dag 


we  treasure  greatly.  We  have  the  reputation  of  being  a  productive 
and  creative  people;  and  indeed  we  deserve  it.  We  have  always 
tried  to  better  the  world,  to  leave  it  richer  than  we  found  it,  spiritually 
and  temporally.  In  our  temporal  affairs  we  have  taken  the  Lord  at 
his  word;  that  he  has  given  man  dominion  over  the  earth,  on  the 
condition  that  he  would  seek  to  subdue  it  in  the  sweat  of  his  brow. 
We  have  proved  this  promise  to  be  true;  we  know  that  only  as  we 
toil  do  we  overcome  obstacles.  We  have  learned  also  that  whenever 
human  energy  is  applied  to  the  resources  of  earth,  wealth  is  produced. 
That  is  indeed  the  only  way  that  true  wealth,  much  or  little,  can  be 
added  to  the  world's  possessions.  By  that  method  this  people  made 
a  garden  out  of  the  desert;  and  by  that  method  they  have  bettered 
their  own  economic  conditions;  and  have  led  others  into  paths  of  pros- 
perity. By  that  method  every  man  may  win  wealth  sufficient  for  his 
needs.  It  is  the  surest  approach  to  a  competence.  We  are  a  practical- 
minded  people.  Of  that  we  are  proud.  This  basic  principle  should 
be  before  us  in  planning  for  our  returning  sons. 

Education  to  be  Encouraged 

It  is  an  equally  well-established  Latter-day  Saint  principle  that 
ignorance  waits  on  no  man.  Dominion  of  the  earth  will  ultimately 
be  in  the  hands  of  those  who  know,  and  use  their  powers  intelligently. 
Therefore,  as  a  people  we  believe  in  education — the  gathering  of 
knowledge  and  the  training  of  the  mind.  The  Church  itself  is  really 
an  educational  institution.  Traditionally,  we  are  an  education-loving 
people.  Remember  the  valiant  group,  young  and  old,  who  more  than 
a  hundred  years  ago  gathered  daily  in  upper  rooms  of  the  Kirtland 
Temple?  They  were  really  the  founders  of  adult  education  in  the 
modern  world.  They  dipped  into  English,  mathematics,  history, 
science,  law,  and  languages.  They  were  fearless  in  their  educational 
aspirations.  They  exemplified  the  words  of  Brigham  Young,  "The 
religion  embraced  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  .  .  .  prompts  them  to 
search  diligently  after  knowledge."  Remember,  also,  the  succession 
of  educational  institutions  marking  the  progressive  history  of  the 
Church!  Schools,  colleges,  and  universities  attest  the  high  place  of 
education  in  "Mormon"  philosophy.  Do  not  forget  the  surpassingly 
high  present  educational  standing  of  our  people. 

Our  young  men  returning  from  the  front,  should  be  encouraged 
to  take  up  their  educational  work  where  they  laid  it  down  when  the 
country  in  its  need  called  for  their  service;  and  they  should  be  urged 
to  continue  it  to  the  end  of  their  program.  Despite  the  loss  of  time 
during  the  war  period,  and  the  apparent  financial  need,  they  would 
make  a  mistake  to  rush  into  active  life  without  proper  development 
and  training;  without  the  eye-and-mind-opening  vistas  that  follow 
the  wise  discipline  of  schools.  The  coming  age  will  require  the  serv- 
ice of  trained  minds  and  bodies  more  than  before.  During  the  late 
financial  depression,  few  men  who  had  professions,  including  agri- 
culture and  the  trades,  were  unemployed.  The  untrained  group  suf- 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


49 


fered  most.  We  must  see  to  it  that  our  returning  boys  .even  at  our 
own  heavy  sacrifice,  finish  their  educational  ambitions.  Thus  we 
shall  better  protect  their  futures.  Some  help  may  be  offered  by  the 
federal  government.  Schools  will  do  their  utmost,  we  may  be  sure, 
to  intensify  and  shorten  the  courses  required  for  men  who  have  ma- 
tured quickly  among  the  stern  realities  of  warfare. 

Education  cultivates  the  innate  powers  of  man,  and  gives  him  a 
vision  of  eternal  truth  and  the  great  gains  of  the  centuries.  It  should 
also  help  fit  a  person  to  make  a  living,  and  to  perform  better  the  work 
likely  to  be  required  of  him,  and  from  which  he  earns  his  bread  and 
butter.  In  that  sense,  all  education,  dealing  with  men,  having  earthly 
needs,  should  be  practical.  Probably  most  of  our  young  men  have 
already  decided  upon  their  life-pursuits;  all  should  do  so,  and  make 
their  educational  training  subserve  their  life's  needs.  All  their  learn- 
ing, including  that  which  seems  at  first  remote,  should  fit  into  the 
student's  life  ambition.  Wise  parents,  and  all  young  men,  will  heed 
this  matter  with  care;  and  direct  their  educational  efforts  to  a  definite 
objective.  Wasted  educational  opportunities  are  seldom  recovered. 

Agriculture  Gives  Promise  of  Success 

Among  the  membership  of  the  Church;  farmers  and  craftsmen 
predominate.  They  are  true  wealth  producers,  for  they  convert  the 
elements  about  us  into  articles  needed  by  man.  By  the  efforts  of 
these  wealth  producers,  the  prosperity  of  the  world  may  best  be 
measured.  Therefore,  the  Church  has  always  advocated  that  its 
members  keep  close  to  agriculture,  the  crafts,  and  the  industries. 
They  form  the  safe  base  of  the  pyramid  of  social  and  economic  life 
on  earth.  More  than  a  hundred  years  ago  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
then  building  the  city  of  Nauvoo,  stressed  this  principle  in  no  uncer- 
tain words. 

Probably  more  than  half  of  our  Church  membership  is  agricul- 
tural. Of  that  we  are  proud;  for  that  we  are  grateful;  we  hope  that 
it  may  ever  be  so.  Tillers  of  the  soil  are  a  steady,  dependable  ele- 
ment in  society.  There  is  an  unusual  stability  in  the  lives  of  farmers 
and  farming  communities.  They  know  better  than  any  other  group 
that  as  we  sow,  so  do  we  reap.  The  succession  of  seed  time  and 
harvest  bespeak  to  them  an  orderly  universe.  The  changing  seasons 
reveal  powers  beyond  man's  control,  for  which  he  must  prepare  in 
favorable  years.  Big  lessons  of  life  come  out  of  the  profession  of 
farming.  Seldom  does  a  hare-brained  social,  economical,  or  political 
philosophy  issue  from  those  who,  upon  the  soil,  face  wind  and  weath- 
er for  their  sustenance.  If  the  farmer  is  caught,  for  a  time,  by  the 
oily  promise  and  airy  prospects  of  a  fluent  demagogue,  he  is  usually 
the  first  to  repent,  often  in  sackcloth  and  ashes,  and  to  return  to  a 
sensible,  lawful  order  of  living.  A  strong  rural  membership  brings 
safety  to  the  Church  not  otherwise  obtainable.   It  is  so  in  the  nation. 

We  believe  in  rural  life.   By  that  we  mean  not  only  living  on  a 


50  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  6  First  Day 


farm,  but  in  a  rural  community,  composed  of  farmers  and  the  neces- 
sary craftsmen,  tradesmen,  and  professional  workers.  If  living  joy- 
fully is  the  purpose  of  life  the  small  community,  in  which  all  modern 
advantages  and  comforts  may  now  be  available,  has  a  distinct  ad- 
vantage over  the  crowded  city.  Because  of  this,  eminent  business 
and  professional  men,  operating  in  large  centers,  often  commute  to 
their  homes  in  rural  neighborhoods.  The  present  two  chief  candi- 
dates for  the  office  of  president  of  the  United  States  maintain  their 
homes  in  rural  communities.  Already  there  is  a  strong  movement  to- 
wards the  decentralization  of  industry,  so  that  workers  may  be  placed 
in  smaller  communities,  with  the  family  kitchen  garden  and  other  simi- 
lar advantages.  The  experiments  of  Henry  Ford  in  the  field  of  com- 
bining industry  and  agriculture  are  notable. 

The  city  of  Zion,  as  laid  out  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  was 
planned  to  accommodate  between  15,000  and  20,000  people — a  rela- 
tively small  city  for  the  capital  of  a  kingdom — the  kingdom  of  God. 
The  whole  city  was  to  be  divided  into  twenty-four  wards  with  six 
hundred  to  eight  hundred  souls  in  each  ward.  Each  lot  was  to  be 
four  by  twenty  rods,  ample  for  a  dwelling  house,  outbuildings,  and 
gardens.  All  public  buildings  would  be  placed  in  the  easily  accessible 
center  of  the  city.  Such  a  plan  would  be  ideal  in  our  day,  if  living 
richly  is  the  consideration.  Indeed,  we  came  near  to  this  ideal  in  lay- 
ing out  our  cities  in  the  intermountain  country.  The  Mormon  village 
system  has  contributed  much  to  our  strength  and  our  happiness  as 
individuals  and  as  a  people.  It  is  one  of  the  many  Mormon  contribu- 
tions to  the  plan  for  human  welfare.  It  is  interesting  that  many  sound 
thinkers  in  our  day  are  advocating  similar  cities  and  villages. 

The  majority  of  the  service  men  of  the  Church  have  come  from 
the  farm.  They  are  acquainted  with  rural  conditions.  It  would  be 
wise  to  encourage  them  to  return  to  the  farm.  They  would  make  no 
mistake  if  they  do  so.  Modern  agriculture  has  become  a  profession 
of  equal  dignity  with  the  older,  so-called,  learned  professions.  It  is 
good  business,  if  practiced  properly.  It  has  the  unequaled  power  to 
yield  daily,  sane  joy  to  the  farmer  and  his  family.  And  from  genera- 
tion to  generation  it  builds  men  and  women  of  strength  for  the  world's 
service. 

If  the  family  farm  is  too  small  to  be  divided,  lands  may  yet  be 
obtained.  Such  opportunities  are  usually  known  in  every  commun- 
ity. Communication  with  the  agricultural  committee  of  the  welfare 
program  will  reveal  many  localities  where  lands  may  be  obtained  un- 
der conditions  that  may  be  met  by  our  young  men.  Our  western 
lands  are  far  from  being  fully  occupied. 

The  Conservation  of  Water 

Besides,  in  the  irrigated  area,  where  so  many  of  our  Church 
members  live,  the  people  have  it  within  their  own  power,  within  their 
own  locality  to  increase  the  area  of  tillable  land.  By  conserving,  and 


/ 


ELDER  JOHN  A  WIDTSOE  51 

using  more  rationally,  the  water  now  available,  the  irrigated  area 
may  be  greatly  increased.  Almost  everywhere  there  is  a  great  waste 
of  water.  The  fallacy  remains  that  the  more  water  used  the  better 
it  is  for  the  plant.  Over-irrigation  follows.  The  fact  is  that  the  yield 
of  a  crop  is  completed  with  much  less  water  than  is  usually  applied. 
Water  saved  may  be  used  to  redeem  more  land  of  which  there  is  a 
surplus  in  the  West. 

Immense  quantities  of  water  are  lost  by  seepage.  In  one  ideally 
located  L.D.S.  community,  nearly  one  half  of  the  water  held  in  the 
reservoir  is  lost  in  transit  over  three  or  four  miles  to  the  farms.  The 
task  of  making  this  canal  water-tight  is  slight  compared  with  the 
labor  of  the  pioneers  who  settled  that  community  and  dug  the  first 
canals.  There  are  also  hundreds  of  places  where  water  now  going 
to  waste  might  be  stored,  of  spring  water  held  back  for  later  crops. 
By  a  little  united  effort  on  the  part  of  the  people,  such  projects  could 
more  easily  be  completed  than  the  pioneer  projects  of  the  founders 
of  the  West.  Why  wait  for  others  to  do  it  for  us?  Let  us  do  it  our- 
selves! 

Improved  Conditions  in  Farming 

In  addition,  the  introduction  of  new,  more  intensive,  and  more 
profitable  crops,  is  increasing  the  acre  income  on  the  farms,  thus 
automatically  enlarging  the  agricultural  area.  The  relatively  small 
farm,  if  cultivated  properly,  is  the  most  satisfactory.  There  is  yet 
land  available  for  our  young  war  veterans. 

You  who  may  advise  our  lads  to  return  to  the  farm  should  also 
remember  that  the  profession  of  farming  has  moved  forward  with 
the  vast  progress  of  recent  years.  Much  of  the  toil  has  been  taken 
out  of  the  tillage  of  the  soil.  Motorized  implements,  from  plowing 
land  to  baling  hay,  even  for  the  small  farm,  under  control  of  one  man, 
have  cut  down  the  former  manual  labor.  Only  the  other  day  I  saw 
a  farmer's  son  drive  a  herd  of  pure-bred,  sleek,  dairy  cows  to  the  co- 
operative shed  to  be  milked  by  machinery.  When  this  herd  was  on 
its  way  back,  another  took  its  place  at  the  iron  milk-maid.  Such  de- 
vices, helps  to  the  farmer,  are  steadily  increasing.  The  farmer  need 
no  longer  be  kept  busy  from  dawn  to  dark.  Headwork  is  today  the 
prime  requisite  of  the  farmer.  The  day  of  the  pioneer  is  not  over. 
Progress  is  never  ending,  on  the  farm  as  elsewhere.  Problems  beck- 
on to  every  man  of  courage;  and  there  is  joy  in  conquest. 

When  we  think  of  our  boys  who  have  gone  out,  willing  to  face 
death,  if  need  be,  for  our  freedom,  our  hearts  grow  warm.  They  have 
a  claim  upon  our  help  when  they  return  to  enter  upon  paths  that  will 
lead  to  service  and  joy.  When  we  do  our  best  and  most  for  them 
we  do  not  do  too  much. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  in  this  matter;  and  may  He  bless  and  pro- 
tect our  sons  who  are  placed  in  battle  array  and  guide  them  wisely 
upon  their  return.  This  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dag 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


We  were  pleased  to  note  at  the  opening  of  this  session  that 
nearly  all  members  were  in  their  seats  at  five  minutes  to  two  o'clock. 
The  brethren  who  came  in  late  had  been  detained  because  of  dif- 
ficulties in  being  served  luncheon.  Tomorrow  morning,  however, 
let  us  try  to  be  here  at  ten  minutes  to  ten  o'clock.  You  will  please 
note. 

After  the  benediction  this  conference  will  be  adjourned  until 
ten  o'clock  tomorrow  morning. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Lord,  Accept  Our  True 
Devotion." 

Elder  Willis  Andrew  Oldroyd,  President  of  the  Wayne  Stake, 
offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  a.m.,  Saturday,  October  7. 


In  continuation  of  the  1 1 5th  semi-annual  Conference  of  the 
Church,  the  third  session  convened-  at  10  o'clock  a.m.,  Saturday, 
October  7,  with  President  Heber  J.  Grant  in  attendance  and  presiding. 
President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, conducted  the  exercises. 


For  the  benefit  of  those  who  are  listening  over  the  radio  we 
will  say  this  is  the  third  session  of  the  1 1 5th  Semi- Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant,  who  is  on  the  rostrum,  is  presiding 
at  this  session.  He  has  requested  that  his  Second  Counselor  con- 
duct the  exercises. 

The  General  Authorities  present  are  the  First  Presidency  of 
the  Church,  members  of  the  Council  of  Twelve  Apostles,  the  Patri- 
arch to  the  Church,  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  (excepting  Elder 
Sonne  who  is  on  a  special  assignment),  the  presidents  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy,  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

Because  of  the  exigencies  of  war  the  attendance  at  this  con- 
ference has  been  limited  to  the  official  representatives  of  the  Church. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  radio  station  KSL  the  proceedings 
of  this  meeting  are  being  broadcast.  We  are  pleased  to  announce 


SECOND  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


! 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY  53 


also  that  KSUB  at  Cedar  City  is  broadcasting  all  the  sessions  of 
the  conference. 

Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  will  direct  the  music,  and  Elder 
Alexander  Schreiner  is  at  the  organ. 

The  congregation  will  now  join  in  singing,  "Did  You  Think 
to  Pray?"  Song  Folder  number  40. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Did  You  Think  to  Pray?" 

Elder  Edwin  Q.  Cannon,  President  of  the  Ensign  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

Singing  by  the  congregation,  "Sweet  Hour  of  Prayer"  (Song 
Folder  No.  28,  L.D.S.  Hymn  Book  No.  354). 

ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  don't  know  just  why  it  is  that  I  always  feel  like  this  when  I 
stand  before  you  brethren  in  this  great  building.  The  other  day 
I  was  in  Nampa,  Idaho,  attending  a  stake  conference,  and  I  said 
to  one  of  the  brethren  up  there: 

"My  name  is  Marion  G.  Romney." 

This  man  said:  "Oh  yes,  I  know  you.  I  heard  your  heart  beat, 
and  I  heard  you  breathe  the  first  time  you  spoke  in  the  tabernacle." 

I  still  feel  that  way.  I  know  you  are  my  brethren.  I  know  you 
know  my  limitations.  I  know  you  want  me  to  succeed,  but  when 
1  am  ministering  in  this  work  of  God  I  am  always  very  humble. 

I  am  very  much  in  harmony  with  the  spirit  of  those  two  lovely 
hymns  we  have  sung  this  morning.  If  I  had  known  that  I  was  to 
be  the  first  speaker,  and  could  have  chosen  the  hymns,  I  could  not 
have  chosen  better. 

Prayer  the  Present  Day  Need 

I  have  been  thinking  of  that  marvelous  appeal  for  prayer  made 
by  President  Grant  yesterday  in  his  message,  I  have  been  thinking 
of  it  in  connection  with  a  passage  of  scripture,  a  commandment 
which  the  Lord  gave  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Perhaps  I 
was  so  impressed  because  I  had  been  thinking,  as  I  am  sure  you 
have  been,  of  the  great  hold  which  Satan  has  upon  the  inhabitants 
of  the  earth  today.  The  commandment  was: 

Pray  always,  that  you  may  come  off  conqueror;  yea,  that  you  may  con- 
quer Satan,  and  that  you  may  escape  the  hands  of  the  servants  of  Satan  that 
do  uphold  his  work.  (Doc.  and  Cov.  10:5.) 

The  subject  of  prayer  deserves  the  consideration  not  only  of 
Latter-day  Saints  but  also  of  the  whole  nation,  for  a  belief  in  God 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Day 


and  prayer  has  been  almost  universally  professed  in  the  United 
States. 

One  of  our  greatest  needs  today  is  to  turn  to  God  in  true 
prayer,  that  we  may  conquer  Satan  and  escape  the  hands  of  the 
servants  of  Satan  that  do  uphold  his  work.  I  should  like  to  call 
your  attention  to  some  of  the  prerequisites  to  the  realization  of  this 
need.  The  first  is  belief  in  God  the  Eternal  Father,  as  taught  by 
Joseph  Smith. 

Belief  in  a  Living  God  Essential  to  Faith 

There  is  a  world  of  difference  between  a  prayer  understand- 
ing^ addressed  to  "Our  Father  which  art  in  heaven,"  and  a  prayer 
addressed  to  some  unknown  god  defined  in  some  such  language  as 
"cosmic  energy,"  "universal  consciousness,"  or  as  "the  first  great 
cause."  No  man  prays  to  a  theoretical  god  with  any  faith  or  ex- 
pectation that  his  petition  will  receive  a  sympathetic  consideration. 
Eut  one  can  pray  to  the  true  and  living  God  with  the  knowledge 
that  he  actually  deals  with  men.  When  God  is  believed  in 
as  our  Eternal  Father,  we  can  to  a  degree  understand  our  relation- 
ship to  him,  that  he  is  the  father  of  our  spirits,  a  loving  parent 
who  is  interested  in  his  children  individually,  and  whom  they  can 
love  with  all  their  hearts,  might,  mind,  and  strength. 

Such  a  belief  is  essential  to  true  prayer  because  intelligent 
beings  will  not  pray  fervently  to  a  God  they  do  not  know.  Such 
praying  will  be  done  only  by  people  who  believe  that  their  prayers 
can  be  heard  and  answered  by  an  understanding,  sympathetic 
parent. 

Associated  with  belief  in  God  the  Eternal  Father  is  belief  in  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ  and  an  acceptance  of  his  divine  mission  as  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world.  This  belief  is  as  basic  to  true  prayer  as 
is  belief  in  God,  the  Eternal  Father.  It  is  because  Jesus  is  our  Re- 
deemer and  therefore  our  advocate  with  the  Father  that  we  must 
always  pray  unto  the  Father  in  his  name.  While  yet  in  mortality 
he  said  to  his  disciples,  "I  am  the  way,  the  truth,  and  the  life:  no 
man  cometh  unto  the  Father  but  by  me."  (John  14:6.)  He  prom- 
ised them  that  if  they  prayed  in  his  name,  they  should  receive  what- 
soever they  should  ask.  (John  14:13-14;  15:16;  16:23-24,  26.)  To 
the  Nephite  multitude,  whom  he  taught  after  his  resurrection,  he 
said,  "...  Ye  must  always  pray  unto  the  Father  in  my  name" 
(III  Nephi  18:19),  and  to  this  generation,  "...  Thou  shalt  con- 
tinue in  calling  upon  God  in  my  name."  (D.  &  C.  24:5. ) 

I  call  these  well-known  teachings  to  your  attention  because 
on  a  number  of  occasions  recently  I  have  heard  prayers  in  re- 
ligious services  which  were  not  offered  in  his  name.  Latter-day 
Saints  ought  not  to  be  ignorant  of  these  commandments  nor  hesi- 
tant about  obeying  them.  Our  hearts  are  filled  with  gratitude  be- 
yond expression  for  what  the  Savior  has  done  for  us.  We  sing 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY  55 


with  feeling,  "Oh,  it  is  wonderful  that  he  should  care  for  me 
enough  to  die  for  me!"  Every  time  we  partake  of  the  sacrament, 
we  witness  unto  the  Father  that  we  are  willing  to  take  upon  us  the 
name  of  his  Son.  A  prayer  not  offered  in  his  name  suggests  in- 
sincerity or  lack  of  understanding. 

When  we  pray  unto  the  Father  in  the  name  of  Jesus  for  spe- 
cific personal  things,  we  should  feel  in  the  very  depths  of  our  souls 
that  we  are  willing  to  subject  our  petitions  to  the  will  of  our  Father 
in  heaven.  "Thy  will,  O  God,  thy  will  be  done"  should  never  be 
lip  service  only.  "Thy  will  be  done  on  earth  as  it  is  in  heaven" 
(III  Nephi  13:10),  is  the  pattern  given  by  Jesus  in  the  Lord's  prayer, 
and  emphasized  in  Gethsemane  when  in  blood-sweat  and  agony 
he  prayed,  "...  Not  my  will,  but  thine,  be  done."  (Luke  22:42.) 

A  Personal  Experience 

This  principle  we  learned  in  our  home  through  a  rather  im- 
pressive experience.  During  the  early  years  of  our  married  life,  my 
wife  and  I  intensely  desired  what  we  considered  to  be  a  particular 
blessing.  We  set  about  through  fasting  and  prayer  to  obtain  it. 
We  considered  many  of  the  scriptures  which  seemed  to  make  a 
blanket  promise  that  "...  Whatsoever  ye  shall  ask  in  prayer,  be- 
lieving, ye  shall  receive."  (Matt.  21:22.)  We  asked,  we  believed, 
we  thought  we  had  faith,  but  though  we  fasted  often  and  prayed 
fervently,  the  years  rolled  by  without  bringing  us  the  desired  an- 
swer to  our  prayers.  Finally  we  concluded  that  we  had  not  fully 
understood;  that  we  were  not  giving  proper  consideration  to  the 
will  of  the  Lord.  Rather  were  we  concentrating  our  faith  and  pray- 
ers upon  receiving  the  particular  thing  which  by  predetermination 
we  had  set  our  hearts  upon.  We  had  to  reconsider  the  conditions 
of  the  promise.  We  found  that  Jesus  had  stated  them  in  full  to  the 
Nephites  as  follows:  "...  Whatsoever  ye  shall  ask  the  Father  in 
my  name,  which  is  right,  believing  that  ye  shall  receive,  behold  it 
shall  be  given  unto  you"  (III  Nephi  18:20),  and  to  this  generation 
thus,  "Whatsoever  ye  ask  the  Father  in  my  name  it  shall  be  given 
unto  you,  that  is  expedient  for  you."  (D.  &  C.  88:64.)  We  had  to 
learn  to  be  as  earnest  in  praying,  "If  it  be  thy  will"  as  we  were 
when  presenting  our  personal  appeals. 

We  need  have  no  fear  that  our  well-being  will  not  be  served  by 
such  an  approach.  It  is  God's  work  and  glory  "...  to  bring  to  pass 
the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man.  (Moses  1:39.)  I  think  I 
am  within  the  mark  when  I  say  that  the  obtaining  of  eternal  life  by 
each  individual  person,  including  specifically  you  and  me,  is  part  of 
the  work  of  God  and  adds  to  his  glory.  His  will  concerning  us 
and  our  affairs  cannot  be  other  than  for  our  advancement  toward 
immortality  and  eternal  life.  Submitting  to  his  will  in  every  in- 
stance will  be  for  our  own  good.  And  this  we  must  do  in  faith  if  we 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Day 


would  have  peace  and  happiness  in  our  present  state  of  imperfect 
living. 

Righteousness  Strengthens  Faith 

The  time  will  come  when  we  shall  know  the  will  of  God  before 
we  ask.  Then  everything  for  which  we  pray  will  be  "expedient." 
Everything  for  which  we  ask  will  be  "right."  That  will  be  when 
as  a  result  of  righteous  living,  we  shall  so  enjoy  the  companionship 
of  the  spirit  that  he  will  dictate  what  we  ask.  On  this  point  the 
Lord  has  said,  "He  that  asketh  in  the  Spirit  asketh  according  to 
the  will  of  God;  wherefore  it  is  done  even  as  he  asketh"  (D.6C. 
46:30),  and  again,  "And  if  ye  are  purified  and  cleansed  from  all 
sin,  ye  shall  ask  whatsoever  you  will  in  the  name  of  Jesus  and  it 
shall  be  done.  But  know  this,  it  shall  be  given  you  what  you  shall 
ask."  (D.  &  C.  50:29-30.)  Nephi,  the  son  of  Helaman,  so  lived.  He 
with  unwearyingness  declared  the  word  of  God.  He  sought  not  his 
own  life  but  the  will  of  God,  and  to  keep  his  commandments  con- 
tinually, and  to  him  the  Lord  said,  ...  all  things  shall  be  done  unto 
thee  according  to  thy  word,  for  thou  shalt  not  ask  that  which  is 
contrary  to  my  will."    (Helaman  10:5.) 

Now,  in  submitting  our  requests  to  the  will  of  our  Eternal 
Father  and  asking  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  when,  where,  and  for  what 
shall  we  pray? 

The  psalmist  sang,  "Evening,  and  morning,  and  at  noon,  will 
I  pray."  (Psalms  55:17.)  During  his  earthly  mission,  the  Savior 
taught  by  parable  that  "...  men  ought  always  to  pray,  and  not 
to  faint."  (Luke  18:1.)  In  this  dispensation,  he  has  said  in  many 
revelations,  "Pray  always."  He  said  this  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  (D.  &  C.  10:5),  to  Martin  Harris  (D.  &  C.  19:38),  to 
Thomas  B.  Marsh  (D.  &  C.  31:12),  and  to  many  other  individuals; 
he  said  it  to  the  Church  (D.  &  C.  20:33),  and  finally  he  said, 
"What  I  say  unto  one  I  say  unto  all;  pray  always  lest  that  wicked 
one  have  power  in  you,  and  remove  you  out  of  your  place."  ( D.  & 
C.  93:49.) 

The  Scriptures  Teach  Prayer 

As  there  is  no  limitation  as  to  when  we  should  pray,  so  there 
seems  to  be  no  limitation  as  to  where  we  should  pray  or  what  we 
should  pray  about. 

...  In  every  thing  by  prayer  and  supplication  with  thanksgiving  let 
your  requests  be  made  known  unto  God.  (Ph.  4:6.) 

.  .  .  Cry  unto  him  for  mercy;  for  he  is  mighty  to  save.  .  .  .  Cry  unto 
him  when  ye  are  in  your  fields,  yea,  over  all  your  flocks.  Cry  unto  him  in 
your  houses,  yea,  over  all  your  household,  both  morning,  mid-day,  and 
evening.  Yea,  cry  unto  him  against  the  power  of  your  enemies.  Yea,  cry 
unto  him  against  the  devil,  who  is  an  enemy  to  all  righteousness.  Cry  unto 
him  over  the  crops  of  your  fields,  that  ye  may  prosper  in  them. .  .  .  But  this 
is  not  all;  ye  must  pour  out  your  souls  in  your  closets,  and  your  secret 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY  57 

places,  and  in  your  wilderness.  Yea,  and  when  you  do  not  cry  unto  the 
Lord,  let  your  hearts  be  full,  drawn  out  in  prayer  unto  him  continually  for 
your  welfare  and  also  for  the  welfare  of  those  who  are  around  you.  (Alma 
34:18-27.) 

Pray  in  your  families  unto  the  Father,  always  in  my  name  [said  the 
Savior],  that  your  wives  and  your  children  may  be  blessed.  (Ill  Nephi 
18:21.) 

.  .  .  Pray  vocally  as  well  as  in  thy  heart;  yea,  before  the  world  as  well 
as  in  secret,  in  public  as  well  as  in  private.  (Doc.  and  Cov.  19:28.) 

Call  upon  the  Lord,  that  his  kingdom  may  go  forth  upon  the  earth, 
that  the  inhabitants  thereof  may  receive  it,  and  be  prepared  for  the  days 
to  come,  in  the  which  the  Son  of  Man  shall  come  down  in  heaven,  clothed 
in  the  brightness  of  his  glory,  to  meet  the  kingdom  of  God  which  is  set  up 
on  the  earth. 

Wherefore,  may  the  kingdom  of  God  go  forth,  that  the  kingdom  of 
heaven  may  come,  that  thou,  O  God,  mayest  be  glorified  in  heaven  so  on 
earth  that  thine  enemies  may  be  subdued;  for  thine  is  the  honor,  power 
and  glory,  forever  and  ever.   Amen.  (Doc.  and  Cov.  65:5-6.) 

An  Incident  from  Lincoln's  Life 

Most  all  of  you  who  are  within  the  sound  of  my  voice  are 
witnesses  that  no  person  in  true  prayer  ever  called  upon  God  in 
vain.  There  is  hardly  one  of  you  who  cannot  personally  testify, 
out  of  your  own  experience,  of  the  power  of  prayer.  Here  is  an 
example  from  the  life  of  President  Lincoln: 

General  Sickles  had, noticed  that  before  the  portentous  battle  of  Gettys- 
burg, upon  the  result  of  which,  perhaps,  the  fate  of  the  nation  hung, 
President  Lincoln  was  apparently  free  from  the  oppressive  care  which 
frequently  weighed  him  down.  After  it  was  all  past  the  general  asked 
Lincoln  how  that  was.    He  said: 

"Well,  I  will  tell  you  how  it  was.  In  the  pinch  of  your  campaign  up 
there,  when  everybody  seemed  panic-stricken  and  nobody  could  tell  what 
was  going  to  happen,  oppressed  by  the  gravity  of  affairs,  I  went  to  my  room 
one  day  and  locked  the  door  and  got  down  on  my  knees  before  Almighty 
God  and  prayed  to  him  mightily  for  victory  at  Gettysburg.  I  told  him  that 
this  war  was  his,  and  our  cause  his  cause,  but  we  could  not  stand  another 
Fredericksburg  or  Chancellorsville.  Then  and  there  I  made  a  solemn  vow 
to  Almighty  God  that  if  he  would  stand  by  our  boys  at  Gettysburg,  I 
would  stand  by  him,  and  he  did  stand  by  our  boys,  and  I  will  stand  by 
him.  And  after  that,  I  don't  know  how  it  was,  and  I  cannot  explain  it, 
soon  a  sweet  comfort  crept  into  my  soul.  The  feeling  came  that  God  had 
taken  the  whole  business  into  his  own  hands,  and  that  things  would  go 
right  at  Gettysburg,  and  that  is  why  I  had  no  fears  about  you." 

Lincoln  believed  in  God.  He  prayed  mightily  in  the  strength 
of  great  humility.  He  did  not  alone  ask  God  to  stand  by  him,  but 
he  promised  to  stand  by  the  Lord.  He  received  his  answer  in  the 
way  which  you,  my  brethren,  are  so  well  acquainted  with, — the 
sweet  comfort  which  crept  into  his  soul. 

Joseph  Smith's  Prayer  and  Its  Results 

In  the  spring  of  1820,  Joseph  Smith,  Jr. — one  of  God's  might- 
iest spirit  sons — but  then  a  little  known  fourteen-year-old  boy  in 
the  backwoods  of  New  York  state,  while  reading  the  Bible  in 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  7  Second  Dag 


search  of  light  on  a  vital  problem,  was  moved  upon  by  the  Spirit  to 
ask  God  in  faith  for  the  wisdom  he  lacked.  Retiring  to  a  secluded 
spot  in  a  wooded  grove,  he  "kneeled  down  and  began  to  offer  up 
the  desires  of"  his  "heart  to  God"  in  vocal  prayer.  It  was  while 
this  boy  was  so  engaged  in  humble  prayer,  and  in  answer  to  that 
prayer,  that  the  great  vision  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  which 
opened  this  last  dispensation  of  the  gospel  was  given. 

A  great  deal  more  could  be  said  upon  this  vital  subject  of 
prayer,  but  this  is  not  the  time  nor  place  for  me  to  say  it.  In  con- 
clusion, I  plead  with  all  men  everywhere  to  turn  to  God  in  true 
prayer.  This  is  the  number  one  requisite  for  peace  in  the  world. 
It  is  the  only  way  that  we  can  conquer  Satan  and  escape  the  hands 
of  the  servants  of  Satan  that  do  uphold  his  work.  We  Latter-day 
Saints  know  that  God  is  our  Eternal  Father,  that  Jesus  Christ  is 
his  Son  and  our  Redeemer,  and  that  we  must  bring  our  desires  and 
our  lives  in  harmony  with  his  divine  will,  praying  to  him  always 
about  all  things  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Let  us  see  to  it  that  from 
henceforth  no  day  shall  pass  in  which  we  do  not  fervently,  in 
family  and  in  private  prayers,  express  our  gratitude  to  our  Heav- 
enly Father  and  seek  his  guiding  and  protecting  care,  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  crave  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers,  my  brethren,  that 
what  I  may  say  may  be  directed  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  through  your 
prayerful  help. 

Cultivation  of  the  Souls  of  Men 

As  I  travel  over  this  vast  country  of  ours,  I,  like  you  perhaps, 
have  been  impressed  by  the  vast  amount  of  unproductive  and  untilled 
land  that  we  have.  Only  a  small  portion  of  this  state  and  the  other 
states  around  us  is  well  cultivated  and  really  productive.  There  is 
a  writer  whom  I  read  frequently  who  has  made  the  statement  that 
there  are  more  uncultivated  souls  than  lands.  I  wonder  if  that  is  true. 

Certain  it  is  that  there  are  many  souls  in  the  world  today  who 
have  been  improperly  cultivated,  else  we  would  not  have  the  condi- 
tions prevalent  that  we  are  struggling  with  now. 

I  like  to  look  upon  this  body  of  men  as  the  tillers  of  the  soul  of 
the  Church,  and  it  is  our  problem  to  see  that  the  soul  of  the  Church 
is  well  cultivated,  so  that  it  can  yield  itself  to  the  purposes  of  God. 
The  soul  of  the  Church  is  a  composite  of  the  souls  of  its  members, 
and  so  we  become  the  tillers  of  the  souls  of  the  members  of  the 
Church,  and  it  becomes  our  duty  as  we  face  this  problem,  each  and 
every  one  of  us,  to  till  our  own  garden  spots  first,  and  if  they  turn 
out  to  be  productive,  then  there  is  no  question  that  the  greater  fields 
will,  likewise,  be  productive. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


59 


When  we  think  of  the  soul  of  the  Church,  and  the  souls  of  the 
members  of  the  Church,  we  naturally  wonder  what  constitutes  a  well- 
developed,  well-cultivated  soul. 

We  have  already  been  told  that  the  first  and  great  command- 
ment of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  that  we  should  love  God  with 
all  our  hearts,  and  that  we  should  love  our  neighbors  as  ourselves. 
That  is  the  great  fundamental  principle  of  the  Gospel,  and  since  the 
purpose  of  the  Gospel  is  to  develop  men  in  their  souls  and  give  them 
joy  and  happiness  and  better  life,  then  the  first  requisite  of  a  well- 
cultivated  soul  is  that  he  must  love  God  and  love  his  neighbor,  be 
willing  to  serve  God  and  serve  his  neighbor. 

Then  we,  who  are  the  custodians  of  the  people,  so  to  speak,  the 
tillers  of  the  soul,  must  see  that  we  love  God  and  love  our  neighbors, 
so  that  we  can  help  others  to  arrive  at  that  state. 

There  are  many  other  virtues  that  enter  into  this  picture.  Right 
along  as  second  to  love  come  charity  and  mercy.  Can  we  feel  that 
our  souls  are  well  cultivated  if  we  have  not  charity?  If  you  read  the 
scripture  you  will  find  that  all  these  other  things  seem  to  fail  in  the 
absence  of  charity  and  mercy. 

Then  comes  forgiveness.  We  must  be  ready  to  forgive  when 
persons  who  have  sinned  against  us,  prompted  by  sincere  repent- 
ance, attempt  to  make  restitution.  If  we  are  going  to  forgive,  we  are 
going  to  forget  likewise,  for  forgiveness  falls  flat  if  it  is  of  the  mouth 
only  and  not  of  the  heart,  and  if,  after  saying  we  forgive,  we  still  car- 
ry in  our  minds  the  offense  and  hold  it  as  an  obstacle  to  the  progress 
of  the  one  whom  we  have  forgiven. 

We  must  be  honest,  too.  We  must  be  honest  with  ourselves, 
we  must  be  honest  with  our  neighbors,  we  must  be  honest  with  the 
state,  we  must  be  honest  with  the  Church.  There  is  too  great  a  lack 
of  honesty  in  the  world  today;  too  many  do  not  think  seriously  enough 
of  those  problems  and  feel  that  so  long  as  we  can  act  within  the  tech- 
nicalities of  the  law,  we  are  sufficiently  honest  for  the  day.  I  question 
that  very  much,  brethren.  I  think  we  all  ought  repeatedly  to  examine 
our  hearts  and  our  attitude,  to  make  sure  that  we  are  honest. 

And  we  should  be  industrious.  If  there  is  anything  that  the 
Church  has  been  noted  for  in  the  past,  among  those  things  comes  the 
fact  that  we  have  been  an  industrious  people.  We  would  like  to  con- 
tinue to  be  such,  industrious,  frugal  and  careful.  If  we  are,  there  is 
little  question  but  that  God  will  bless  us  and  help  us  to  meet  the 
exigencies  of  our  lives. 

We  should  be  sympathetic  with  our  neighbors  in  their  trials 
and  troubles.  We  should  be  willing  to  help  them  over  their  diffi- 
culties. We  should  be  trustworthy,  so  that  when  we  make  a  prom- 
ise, everybody  will  know  that  we  keep  that  promise  to  the  very  let- 
ter, that  our  word  will  be  as  our  written  bond,  and  nobody  will  ques- 
tion us.  We  should  live  clean,  honorable,  and  upright  lives.  No  other 
thing  will  give  us  greater  happiness,  or  will  develop  our  souls  to  a 


60  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Day 


greater  degree  than  to  live  the  law  of  chastity  which  is  prescribed  by 
our  Church  as  by  no  other  organization  on  the  earth. 

All  of  these  things  tend  to  develop  the  spirit  and  the  soul  of  man. 
The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has  told  us  that  the  soul  consists  not  only 
of  the  spirit  of  man  but  of  the  spirit  and  body  inseparably  connected. 
Then,  in  the  development  of  the  soul,  we  have  next,  after  the  spiritual 
development,  that  of  the  body.  I  believe  what  the  scripture  says  that 
the  body  is  the  temple  of  the  spirit,  the  temple  of  God,  and  that  his 
spirit  will  not  dwell  in  an  unclean  body.  Our  purpose,  then,  as  well 
as  to  develop  the  other  phase,  is  to  develop  our  bodies,  to  attempt 
perfection  in  them,  so  that  the  spirit  which  God  grants  the  privilege 
of  dwelling  in  this  body  of  clay  shall,  in  its  development,  be  unham- 
pered by  physical  imperfections. 

If  we  can  do  these  things,  we  shall  not  have  it  said  of  us  that 
there  are  more  uncultivated  souls  than  land  where  we  abide  and  we, 
the  priesthood  presidents  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  have  this  as  our  great  purpose  and  our  great  field  of  activity: 
to  develop  the  souls  of  the  people  and  the  soul  of  the  Church.  This 
is  a  complex  problem  but  it  is  wholly  within  our  power,  if  we  can 
only  gain  the  assistance  that  comes  from  the  companionship  of  the 
Spirit  of  God.  If  we  are  humble — and  humility  is  one  of  the  highest 
virtues  that  we  should  cultivate  in  this  spiritual  development — if  we 
are  only  humble,  and  if  we  apply  the  spirit  of  prayer  as  Brother  Rom- 
ney  has  just  said,  we  can  gain  that  power  that  comes  from  the  Spirit 
of  God. 

That  Spirit  will  give  us  the  interest  which  will  impel  us  to  great- 
er activity  than  we  have  ever  undertaken  before. 

That,  brethren,  is  my  prayer  today,  that  we  the  servants  of  God 
and  the  servants  of  his  people,  for  he  has  told  us  that  inasmuch  as 
we  serve  the  least  among  us  we  are  serving  him;  that  we  can  get  his 
Spirit  to  give  us  a  true  vision  of  our  responsibility  and  the  power  to 
meet  it  fully  and  completely.  All  of  us  should  examine  ourselves  and 
our  problem,  and  then  make  a  high  resolve  before  our  Heavenly  Fa- 
ther that  we  will,  to  the  best  of  our  ability  magnify  our  calling.  If 
we  can  but  do  that,  there  is  no  question  about  the  power  of  the  priest- 
hood of  God.  That  he  may  grant  it  to  us,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

Brethren,  in  your  presence,  and  with  the  utmost  humility  and 
sincerity,  I  desire  to  express  to  my  Heavenly  Father  my  deep  grati- 
tude for  membership  in  this  great  Church,  and  for  your  fellow- 
ship and  the  fellowship  of  the  Saints,  and  the  blessings  that  I  am 
privileged  to  enjoy  as  a  member  of  his  Church. 

We  called  a  deacon  to  talk  in  one  of  our  stake  conferences 
recently,  extemporaneously,  and  he  expressed  his  gratitude  to  the 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS  61 


Lord  for  his  blessings,  and  among  them  he  said,  "I  thank  the 
Lord  for  the  privilege  of  being  reared  in  a  Mormon  home."  I  have 
thought  of  that  a  good  many  times  since,  and  I  think  of  all  my 
blessings  I  could  be  most  grateful  for  the  privilege  of  having 
been  reared  in  a  Mormon  home. 

An  Expression  of  Gratitude  for  Blessings 

Then  I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  influence  of  the  gospel  which 
has  assisted  my  wife  and  me  in  rearing  our  children.  I  realize  the 
condition  the  world  is  in  today;  they  need  the  influence  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  more  than  anything  else  to  enable  them  to  keep 
their  moorings  and  to  be  faithful  and  true  to  the  high  standards  of 
this  Church. 

In  traveling  from  stake  to  stake,  attending  stake  conferences, 
in  almost  every  chapel  we  enter  there  hangs  on  the  wall  a  me- 
morial flag  or  banner,  with  stars  Representing  each  boy  and  girl 
in  the  armed  forces.  In  many  cases  they  total  approximately  ten 
percent  of  the  ward  or  the  stake  population.  I  never  look  at  a  flag 
like  that  but  what  I  realize  that  every  star  represents  a  boy  or 
a  girl.  I  think  of  those  boys,  and  my  own  two  sons,  of  where 
they  go  and  what  they  do.  I  am  most  grateful  to  the  Lord  for 
my  present  assignment  to<  labor  with  the  youth  of  Zion.  Of  all 
the  responsibilities  that  are  mine,  I  regard  this  as  the  most  precious 
and  the  most  important. 

The  Temptations  Met  by  Our  Boys  in  the  Army 

I  think  of  these  boys  by  day  and  by  night,  not  only  the  ones 
who  are  on  the  firing  line  and  are  in  precarious  conditions  and  cir- 
cumstances, but  also  those  who  have  to  meet  the  temptations  of 
the  world  by  which  they  are  surrounded  under  their  present  con- 
ditions. I  wonder  if  we  at  home  have  done  all  we  should  for 
them,  that  as  they  live  we  will  be  proud  to  know  that  they  stand 
for  us  individually,  for  our  homes,  for  this  great  Church.  Are  we 
willing  that  the  world  should  judge  us  individually  and  as  a  people 
by  their  lives  and  the  things  they  do? 

Then  I  think  of  the  temptations  that  they  are  subjected  to. 
I  am  sure  we  were  all  impressed  yesterday  with  what  President 
Grant  said  about  President  Merrill  seeing  President  Grant's 
brother  wearing  a  halo,  as  it  were,  about  him,  it  being  the  in- 
fluence of  his  father.  I  pray  that  wherever  our  boys  go  our  in- 
fluence may  go  with  them,  and  may  be  as  a  light  to  their  path, 
to  guide  and  direct  and  to  give  them  power  and  strength  to  re- 
sist ,evil  with  which  they  are  surrounded  at  the  present  time. 

I  desire  to  read  a  few  words  from  a  letter  I  received  from  a 
captain  from  one  of  our  bases.  "After  wading  through  the  muck 
and  mire  and  vice,  immorality  and  corruption,  it  takes  courage  of 
a  high  caliber  to  keep  yourself  immune  from  partaking  of  the 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  7  Second  Dap 


same."  And  then  he  tells  of  attending  an  officer's  party  when  he 
was  the  only  one  of  all  present,  men  and  women,  who  was  not 
under  the  influence  of  liquor.  Then  I  wonder  if  my  boy  were  there 
if  the  influence  of  the  home  and  of  the  gospel  would  be  such  that 
he  could  stand  out  alone  against  that  entire  group  of  officers,  even 
though  they  taunted  him,  as  they  did,  as  the  captain  explains  in 
his  letter. 

Now,  I  want  to  read  a  few  words  from  my  own  missionary 
son  who  recently  entered  the  service.  He  says: 

My  companion  and  I  are  plenty  disgusted  with  the  boys  here.  Their 
language  is  positively  evil,  foul  and  vile.  If  the  Lord  preserves  their  lives, 
they  will  be  mighty  fortunate.  Day  and  night  filthy  talk. 

Things  would  not  be  bad  at  all  if  we  had  a  company  of  returned 
missionaries.  > 

Thank  God  that  our  boys  are  able  to  discern  the  difference 
between  the  ways  ol  the  world  and  the  way  they  have  been  taught 
in  this  Church. 

A  returned  missionary  came  into  my  office  not  long  ago.  I 
knew  his  parents  well.  He  was  serving  at  one  of  the  bases  here 
in  Salt  Lake,  and  I  said:  "What  kind  of  boys  are  you  associated 
with?" 

"Oh,"  he  said,  "they  are  swell  fellows.  They  would  do  any- 
thing in  the  world  for  you.  But,"  he  said,  "they  profane  the  name 
of  God  all  day  long,  and  when  you  tell  them  they  are  doing  it, 
they  don't  believe  you.  They  have  just  been  used  to  it,  it  is  their 
natural  language,  it  is  the  way  they  talk." 

He  said:  "Do  you  want  me  to  tell  you  the  rest  of  the  story?" 

I  said,  "Well,  yes." 

"Well,"  he  said,  "they  don't  think  any  more  of  being  hu- 
moral, going  out  for  a  woman,  than  they  would  to  go  and  buy  a 
beefsteak  if  they  were  hungry." 

You  wonder  that  the  world  could  fall  to  such  a  condition 
as  that. 

I  attended  a  stake  conference  in  San  Diego.  Brother  Hugh 
B.  Brown  was  there,  and  we  had  some  sixty-odd  of  our  boys  of 
the  armed  forces  present.  They  sang  for  us;  some  of  them  talked, 
and  after  the  conference  one  of  the  boys  came  up  to  me  and  said: 
"Bishop,  you'll  never  know  what  a  day  like  this  means  to  us." 
He  said,  "The  world  is  so  wicked — you  think  men  are  wicked, 
but  I  want  to  tell  you  that  they  are  not  in  it  as  compared  with  the 
women." 

I  could  not  understand  that,  because  I  had  been  reared  in 
Zion  and  know  of  the  teachings  of  the  gospel  and  the  high  stand- 
ards of  our  women.  And  this  condition  seems  to  be  largely  con- 
ceded by  leaders  in  the  world.  When  I  was  in  Atlanta  as  presi- 
dent of  the  Southern  States  Mission,  one  of  our  most  prominent 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS  63 


ministers  of  Atlanta,  in  talking  before  a  Bible  society  in  Virginia, 
made  this  statement  about  conditions  in  the  world.  He  said: 

Society  thinks  it  is  cute  for  debutantes  to  be  carried  home  Monday 
morning  gloriously  drunk.  History  shows  that  all  conditions  which  pre- 
ceded the  downfall  of  every  empire  of  the  past  face  us  today.  It  re- 
mained for  the  twentieth  century  to  lift  woman  down  from  her  throne, 
teach  her  to  drink  as  we  drink,  smoke  as  we  smoke,  and  blaspheme  as  we 
blaspheme. 

The  Present  Condition  of  Mankind 

Roger  Babson  indicates  that  there  are  four  requisites  to  restore 
the  world  to  peace,  one  being  a  return  to  righteousness  and  Christian- 
ity in  action,  and  then  he  adds:  "There,  however,  may  be  a  great 
difference  between  righteousness  and  theology,  between  theoretical 
Christianity  and  Christianity  in  action." 

Booth  Tarkington,  in  giving  an  explanation  for  the  condition 
the  world  is  in  today,  said:  "Lop-sided  progress  did  it — scientific 
material  advance  achieved  by  nations  undeveloped  in  spirit." 

Will  Durant,  who  was  here  not  long  ago,  made  this  state- 
ment:  "We  will  be  poor  and  virtuous  again." 

I  thought  much  about  that,  and  I  thought  that  if  poverty 
were  the  only  price  of  virtue,  God  grant  that  poverty  might  come, 
for  virtue  must  return  to  the  earth  if  we  would  be  able  to  stand  when 
He  makes  His  appearance. 

Returning  from  Oregon  a  few  weeks  ago  from  attending  a 
conference,  I  sat  in  the  men's  rest  room  while  the  porter  was 
making  up  the  berths,  and  there  were  an  army  officer  and  one  or 
two  others  present,  and  a  doctor  who  was  in  the  armed  forces 
just  returning  on  furlough  from  New  Guinea  and  the  Islands  of 
the  Pacific.  Someone  started  the  subject  of  Salt  Lake,  and  then 
I  admit  to  you  brethren  that  I  never  listened  to  a  man  use  more 
vile  Janguage  than  that  doctor  did  when  he  spoke  of  Brigham 
Young  and  the  Mormons.  I  shall  never  repeat  it  as  long  as  I 
live,  to  man  or  woman. 

Then  I  spoke  up  and  said,  "Doctor,  I  would  just  like  to  tell 
you  that  I  am  from  Salt  Lake  City,  and  I  am  a  member  of  the 
Mormon  Church,  and  I  have  traveled  all  over  the  United  States  and 
in  Europe,  and  in  Mexico  and  Canada,  and  the  islands  of  the  sea,  and 
if  there  is  a  people  on  this  earth  as  morally  clean  as  the  Mormon 
people  it  has  never  been  my  privilege  to  meet  them."  I  referred 
him  to  an  article  that  appeared  not  long  ago  in  Life  magazine  from 
the  surgeon  general's  office  of  the  United  States,  in  which  the 
statement  was  made  that  the  greatest  deterrent  to  the  success  of 
the  armed  forces  in  the  United  States  and  the  war  industry  was 
venereal  disease.  The  article  indicated  that  eighty-five  per  cent  of 
all  the  men  in  the  armed  forces,  including  married  men,  were  living 
immoral  during  the  term  of  their  service. 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  7  Second  Day 


He  turned  to  the  officer  sitting  there  and  said:  "That  doesn't 
begin  to  cover  it,  does  it?  Why,  it  is  ninety-nine  and  nine-tenths 
percent." 

Then  I  told  him  of  a  letter  I  had  in  my  possession  from  the 
superintendent  of  the  L.  D.  S.  Hospital  in  Salt  Lake,  in  which  the 
superintendent  indicates  that  they  had  given  the  Wasserman  test 
to  over  7,000  boys  who  passed  through  the  missionary  home  here 
in  Salt  Lake,  and  out  of  those  7,000  tests,  only  four  of  them  showed 
any  trace  of  impure  blood,  and  I  said:  "Doctor,  if  you  can  duplicate 
that  anywhere  in  the  world,  I'd  like  to  know  where." 

Example  of  A  Mormon  Girl 

Then  he  added:  "Well,  over  in  New  Guinea,  even  the  doc- 
tors and  the  nurses  'let  their  hair  down.'  "  That  was  his  own  ex- 
pression. He  said:  "They  figure  they  may  never  come  back,  and 
they  are  getting  all  they  can  while  they  are  there.  But,"  he  said, 
"there  was  one  nurse  from  Salt  Lake,  a  Mormon  girl,  who  said, 
'I  left  my  home  clean,  and  I  am  going  to  return  as  I  left.'  " 

I  said  to  myself:  "God  bless  her."  And  I  know  that  if  her 
parents  knew  they  would  say  the  same  thing.  1 1  cannot  help  but 
feel  if  there  is  rejoicing  in  heaven  over  one  sinner  that  has  come 
to  repentance,  surely  there  must  be  great  rejoicing  in  heaven  when 
a  Mormon  girl  or  boy  has  the  courage  to  stand  out  against  'the 
entire  group  and  keep  himself  sweet  and  clean. 

Good  and  Evil  Influences  Ever  Present 

I  thought  of  the  words  of  Joseph  when  sold  into  Egypt, 
tempted  by  Potiphar's  wife  —  you  know  how  she  laid  a  trap  for 
him — and  then  Joseph  said:  "How  then  can  I  do  this  great  wick- 
edness and  sin  against  God?"  He  refused  all  her  entreaties  and 
efforts  to  seduce  him,  even  though  he  realized  that  he  might  in- 
cur the  displeasure — which  he  did — of  those  who  ruled  over  him, 
and  he  was  cast  into  prison. 

I  saw  a  picture  in  Brussels,  when  I  was  laboring  as  a  mis- 
sionary in  Europe,  depicting  a  man  as  he  stood  with  a  revolver 
and  shot  off  his  head.  As  he  did  that  thing,  there  stood  on  either 
side  an  angel,  one  an  angel  of  light,  the  other  an  angel  of  darkness.  As 
he  pulled  the  trigger  that  severed  his  head  from  his  body,  the  angel 
of  darkness  turned  with  a  laugh  of  triumph,  and  the  angel  of  light 
turned  and  wept. 

Brethren,  .wherever  your  boys  and  girls  go  those  influences 
will  go  with  them.  If  there  is  anything  you  can  do  at  home  to 
strengthen  them  to  meet  the  temptations  that  come  before  them, 
please  do  not  leave  undone  what  can  be  done.  I  say  this  to  you 
fathers,  and  you  officers  in  this  Church.  I  cannot  help  but  think 
of  the  words  of  Jesus  when  he  said,  "Fear  not  them  which  kill  the 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 


65 


body,  but  are  not  able  to  kill  the  soul,  but  rather  fear  him  which 
is  able  to  destroy  both  soul  and  body  in  hell." 

And  think  of  the  words  of  the  Presidency  of  this  great 
Church  to  all  the  youth  of  the  land,  "Better  dead  clean,  than  alive 
unclean." 

God  help  us  to  help  them,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


Vocal  solo,  "The  Lord  Is  My  Light"  (Allitson)  was  sung  by 
Albert  Eccles. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

O/  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

At  the  beginning  of  my  remarks  I  acknowledge  the  hand  of  the 
Lord  in  permitting  me  to  be  here  today.  I  pray  the  Lord  that  I  may 
be  sustained. 

It  was  forty  years  ago  now,  at  this  particular  time  of  the  year 
that  I  was  preparing  to  go  on  my  mission.  I  called  on  President  Jo- 
seph F.  Smith,  according  to  appointment,  and  told  him  I  was  ready 
to  go.  He  said  to  me,  "Brother  Bennion,  you  stay  here  and  help  elect 
Theodore  Roosevelt,  and  then  go."  And  I  did. 

I  am  delighted  to  be  here  and  to  see  this  great  congregation.  I 
enjoy  the  companionship  of  my  brethren;  I  would  not  want  to  live 
in  mortality  without  it. 

A  Testimony  of  the  Truth  Helps  Under  Difficulties 

Seventy-seven  years  ago  my  progenitors  came  down  Emigra- 
tion Canyon  into  this  valley,  and  they  found  here  a  desert — nothing 
that  was  inviting  enough  for  them  to  want  to  stay.  They  came  from 
the  green  fields  of  England,  into  this  desolate  place;  almost  all  they 
had  in  the  world  was  in  a  wagon  box.  And  many  others  were  in  the 
same  condition.  But  there  was  one  thing  in  their  hearts,  one  thing 
that  brought  them  from  the  shores  of  England:  they  had  a  testimony 
of  Jesus.  They  knew  that  the  Redeemer  lives;  they  knew  that  this 
is  the  work  of  God,  and  they  believed  the  prophet  of  God  when  he 
said,  "This  is  the  place,"  and,  "Here  we  will  build  a  temple  unto  our 
God;  here  will  be  our  home;  this  is  where  we  are  going  to  reside." 

The  Indians  could  scarcely  live.  My  parents  knew  them,  and 
these  Indians  were  living  on  the  rodents  of  the  earth,  and  anything 
they  could  get.  The  same  soil  that  is  here  now  was  here  then,  but 
it  was  barren. 

But  the  Lord  had  said  through  His  prophet,  Isaiah,  centuries  be- 
fore: 

The  wilderness  and  the  solitary  place  shall  be  glad  for  them;  and  the 
desert  shall  rejoice,  and  blossom  as  the  rose.  It  shall  blossom  abundantly, 
and  rejoice  even  with  joy  and  singing:  .  .  .  they  shall  see  the  glory  of  the 
Lord,  and  the  excellency  of  our  God.  (Isaiah  35:1  and  2.) 
3 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7 


Second  Day 


Isaiah  knew  the  Lord.  He  was  a  prophet  of  the  living  God, 
and  it  was  given  him  to  look  down  through  the  stream  of  time.  The 
Lord  put  those  words  into  his  mouth,  and  he  delivered  that  scripture, 
and  this  has  become  now  one  of  the  greatest  gardens  of  the  earth. 
The  Lord  had  planned  for  His  people.  Men  could  not  live  in  this 
country  who  did  not  have  a  testimony  of  the  promises  concerning  it. 
All  who  are  here  today  and  those  who  hear  my  voice  can  see  that 
this  great  country  has  been  made  to  blossom  as  a  rose;  it  is  lovely, 
as  Isaiah  predicted  it  would  be. 

Prophecies  Fulfilled 

Go  where  you  may,  I  care  not  where — I  have  not  been  abroad, 
but  I  have  seen  all  the  states  of  the  United  States  and  Canada  and 
Mexico,  and  it  is  all  this  country — and  there  are  no  more  fruitful 
fields  than  in  this  land  where  the  Lord  led  the  people,  this  once  bar- 
ren and  forbidding  country. 

Land  that  I  positively  know  has  been  tilled  for  sixty  years — I 
have  seen  it — has  produced  a  better  crop  this  year  than  at  any  time 
in  its  history,  because  it  has  been  fertilized  and  cared  for.  Water 
used  in  the  right  way,  with  crop  rotation,  and  fertilization,  have 
made  it  what  it  is. 

Membership  of  the  Church  Blessed 

And  as  it  has  been  with  the  land,  so  it  has  been  with  the  mem- 
bership of  this  Church.  There  never  was  greater  strength  in  the 
land  than  at  the  present  time.  It  does  not  make  any  difference  to 
me,  brethren,  what  people  think  about  the  Mormon  Church,  or  its 
doctrines,  I  cannot  help  thinking  of  the  words  of  the  Lord  to  Job  the 
prophet:  "Who  is  this  that  darkeneth  counsel  by  words  without 
knowledge?"  (Job  38:2.)  Who  is  it?  Who  dares  to  question?  The 
plan  of  God  is  here.   He  further  said  to  Job: 

Where  wast  thou  when  I  laid  the  foundations  of  the  earth?  declare, 
if  thou  hast  understanding.  .  .  .  Whereupon  are  the  foundations  thereof 
fastened?  or  who  laid  the  corner  stone  thereof  .  .  .  and  all  the  sons  of  God 
shouted  for  joy?  (Job  38:4,  6,  7.) 

The  great  program  of  God  for  his  children  was  planned  from 
the  beginning  and  when  He  came  to  Joseph  Smith,  He  revealed  unto 
him  this  plan  of  salvation.  And  this  plan  came  to  you  and  to  me,  and 
will  come  to  all  men  who  make  an  investigation  of  it.  Joseph  Smith 
bore  that  testimony  to  the  children  of  men.  He  also  brought  to  our 
attention  the  words  of  Paul  the  apostle:  "Wherefore  I  give  you  to 
understand  that  no  man  speaking  by  the  Spirit  of  God  calleth  Jesus 
accursed:  and  that  no  man  can  say  that  Jesus  is  the  Lord,  but  by  the 
Holy  Ghost."  (I  Corinthians  12:3)  Jesus  said,  "Except  a  man  be 
born  of  water  and  of  the  Spirit  he  cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of 
God."  Nay,  more,  "he  cannot  see  the  kingdom  of  God."  (John 
3:5;  3:3.) 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 


67 


I  have  listened  to  hundreds  of  men  and  women  who  have  come 
out  of  the  world,  so-called,  into  this  Church,  who  have  been  baptized 
and  who  have  had  the  witness  and  power  of  God  given  to  them  by 
the  Holy  Ghost,  say  that  they  could  no  more  go  back  into  their  old 
way  of  thinking  than  they  could  go  back  to  yesterday — they  have 
been  born  again  into  a  new  world. 

The  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  an  established  fact,  and 
men  and  women  of  honor  and  integrity,  by  the  thousands,  from  all 
parts  of  the  world,  are  located  in  these  valleys  where  the  Lord  led 
them.  Here  there  is  power  such  as  the  world  has  never  seen;  truly 
out  of  Zion  goes  forth  the  law. 

I  call  the  attention  of  all  to  the  words  of  the  President  of  this 
Church,  that  were  read  yesterday;  they  came  from  the  Prophet  of 
God.  And  to  the  testimony  that  David  O.  McKay  bore,  and  to  the 
sermon  that  was  delivered  by  President  Clark.  They  are  all  read- 
able. They  set  forth  the  issues  of  the  present  day.  How  many  of 
us  will  follow  them  when  we  go  back  into  our  homes;  how  many  will 
say  to  the  children  of  men  among  whom  we  labor:  "The  word  of 
God  came  to  us  again."  Call  their  attention  to  these  commandments: 

Thou  shalt  not  lie,  thou  shalt  not  steal,  thou  shalt  not  bear  false  wit- 
ness against  thy  neighbor,  thou  shalt  honor  the  Sabbath  day  and  keep  it 
holy,  thou  shalt  not  take  the  name  of  the  Lord  thy  God  in  vain,  and  thou 
shalt  not  commit  adultery. 

The  plan  of  God  is  here  to  fertilize  the  spiritual  fields  of  the 
Church.  As  the  land  has  produced  more  since  the  membership  of  the 
Church  began  to  till  it,  as  it  has  grown  richer  under  careful  supervis- 
ion, so  will  the  strength  of  the  children  of  men  grow  through  the  pow- 
erful influence  of  God,  and  our  people  will  carry  off  victoriously  the 
plan  of  God,  for  this  is  His  work.  It  will  never  fail.  It  does  not  make 
any  difference  to  me  what  men  think  about  Mormonism,  or  what  they 
think  about  this  Church.  I  mingle  among  them;  I  have  done  so  for 
many  years — many  of  them  are  fine  men,  good  men.  There  are  good 
men  in  the  Church  and  out  of  the  Church,  and  when  we  find  out  what 
they  are  good  for,  they  should  be  put  to  use.  But  even  though  they 
may  not  recognize  it,  there  is  a  Power  guiding  this  people  to  high 
destiny  and  even  now  they  have  become,  as  the  Prophet  Joseph  said 
they  would,  a  "mighty  people  in  the  midst  of  the  Rocky  Mountains." 
A  Closing  Testimony 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us.  I  am  thankful  for  the  privilege  I  have 
of  being  here.  I  know  this  is  the  work  of  God  and  that  he  lives,  that 
he  came  to  Joseph  Smith  and  that  Joseph  Smith  brought  to  the  world 
again  the  plan  by  which  all  men  may  know  their  Redeemer  and  give 
praise  to  him. 

I  do  not  believe  this  is  the  end  of  "Sweet  hour  of  prayer,"  I  be- 
lieve it  is  just  a  beginning.  The  hour  of  prayer  will  go  on  into  time 
beyond  our  power  of  conception  and  will  be  a  part  of  the  great  story 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Last  December  I  heard  in  one  of  our  stake 
conferences  a  lovely  chorus  of  about  a  hundred  and  fifteen  or  twenty 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  7  Second  Day 


young  women.    Their  music  was  most  inspiring.    I  said  to  myself 
then  and  I  say  it  now,  I  expect  to  hear  the  voices  of  millions  of  such 
beautiful  singers  and  participate  in  countless  hours  of  prayer. 
The  Lord  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

President  Grant  and  brethren:  It  is  a  great  privilege  to  be 
engaged  in  a  work  that  can  bring  together  so  many  hundreds  of 
fine  men — all  officers  in  the  Church,  having  a  definite  responsibility. 
I  am  thankful  for  my  membership  in  such  a  Church — a  Church 
where  everybody  has  an  opportunity  to  work. 

Mission  Presidents  and  Their  Responsibilities 

I  am  happy  that  the  mission  presidents  are  with  us  again.  I 
think  the  calling  of  mission  presidents  one  of  the  most  responsible 
in  the  Church— it  is  a  real  job  under  normal  conditions,  but  at 
present  when  all  the  young  elders  are  released  and  in  the  service 
of  our  country,  the  responsibility  is  much  greater  than  ever.  I  con- 
gratulate you  mission  presidents  upon  the  splendid  way  in  which 
you  continue  to  carry  on. 

Since  returning  last  week  from  a  most  delightful  and  instruc- 
tive tour  of  the  Canadian  Mission,  and  after  listening  to  the  very 
interesting  reports  and  testimonies  of  our  mission  presidents  in 
their  meeting  with  the  general  authorities,  in  the  temple  last  Wed- 
nesday, I  feel  like  paying  tribute  to  the  mission  presidents'  wives 
and  the  young  lady  missionaries,  and  the  Relief  Societies  of  the 
missions.  To  repeat  what  President  Reeder  stated  in  his  very  ex- 
cellent report:  The  sisters  are  following  the  injunction  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  viz.,  "to  provoke  the  brethren  to  good  works." 

A  Suggestion  for  the  Seventies 

But  while  listening  to  the  mission  presidents  tell  of  the  fine 
work  of  their  wives  with  the  Relief  Societies  and  Primaries,  and  es- 
pecially while  listening  to  the  fine  group  of  young  lady  missionaries 
in  the  Canadian  Mission  give  their  reports  and  testimonies,  my 
mind  kept  reverting  to  a  splendid  group  of  over  five  hundred  sev- 
enties with  whom  I  was  very  closely  associated  while  president 
of  the  Ogden  Stake.  We  had  nine  quorums,  and  since  the  division 
of  the  stake  recently  there  are  now  eleven  in  the  two  stakes.  I 
thought  if  President  Ursenbach,  his  talented  wife,  two  charming 
daughters,  and  thirteen-year-old  son,  Gerry,  a  natural  missionary, 
who  are  doing  such  splendid  work  in  the  Canadian  Mission,  had 
only  three  or  four  pairs  of  missionaries  specially  picked  from  those 
eleven  quorums,  what  a  relief  it  would  be,  and  what  a  help  to  the 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAT 


69 


local  branch  presidents,  the  local  missionaries,  and  especially  to 
the  unorganized  branches  and  the  scattered  members  and  friends; 
just  one  missionary  from  each  of  the  eleven  quorums  would  furnish 
five  pairs,  and  if  we  had  at  least  one  missionary  from  each  of  the 
nearly  three  hundred  quorums,  it  would  furnish  seventeen  mission- 
aries or  eight  and  a  half  pairs  for  each  of  the  thirty-five  missions 
of  the  Church;  this  is  just  a  postwar  suggestion.  I  am  sure  that 
with  proper  leadership  in  the  quorums,  such  a  plan  could  be  car- 
ried out  without  hardship  to  the  members  of  the  quorums  and  with- 
out interfering  with  the  splendid  stake  missionary  work  that  is 
now  being  carried  on.  Quorum  welfare  and  other  projects  to 
maintain  the  missionary  funds  I  am  sure  could  be  instituted.  Quite 
a  number  of  the  quorums  have  already  in  the  past  maintained  one 
or  more  missionaries  in  the  field  and  are  ready  as  soon  as  the  war 
is  over  to  again  carry  on,  and  all  the  other  quorums  could  also  do 
it.  I  believe  it  is  practical,  and  then,  too,  it  is  a  fine  thing  to  have 
a  definite  aim  or  goal  always  in  view. 

Please  do  not  misunderstand  me.  I  do  not  wish,  in  the  least, 
to  depreciate  the  value  of  our  younger  elders  in  the  mission  field. 
I  am  suggesting  these  pairs  of  seventy  second  mission  men,  in  ad- 
dition to  the  two  thousand  or  more  young  elders.  I  have  long  had 
a  feeling  that  some  day  Russia  would  be  a  most  fruitful  field  for 
missionary  work,  and  I  think  that  day  is  near  at  hand;  also  China 
and  perhaps  India — thousands  and  thousands  of  fine  people  in  these 
great  countries  know  nothing  of  Christianity. 

But  in  the  organized  branches  and  districts  at  present  under 
local  supervision  we  will  need  more  experienced  men,  not  to  sup- 
plant the  local  workers  but  to  help  them. 

In  the  twelve  missions  comprising  the  European  group  in 
those  war-torn  countries  where  so  many  will  have  lost  not  only  all 
their  earthly  possessions,  but  many  of  their  loved  ones,  and  some 
of  them  perhaps  also  their  faith  in  a  Supreme  Being — the  local 
brethren  and  sisters  who  have  carried  on  so  loyally  and  efficiently 
will .  need  experienced  help — second  mission  men  if  possible. 

Conditions  in  European  Missions 

Now  just  a  brief  statement  about  conditions  in  the  European 
missions.  Letters  and  reports  are  being  received  more  regularly  all 
the  time — a  few  of  them  get  by  without  being  censored.  We  have 
even  heard  indirectly  from  the  East  and  the  West  German  mis- 
sions; also  from  the  French,  the  Belgian,  and  the  Netherlands  mis- 
sions. We  also  continue  to  receive  letters  and  quite  complete  re- 
ports from  the  three  Scandinavian,  the  Palestine-Syrian,  South 
African,  Swiss  and  the  British  missions. 

Brother  Hugh  B.  Brown,  president  of  the  British  Mission,  is 
carrying  a  tremendous  responsibility,  and  is  doing  it  as  usual  ef- 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Day 

ficiently  and  without  complaint.  In  a  letter  recently  received  he 
said: 

My  work  continues  to  be  intensely  interesting,  and  I  hope  somewhat 
profitable.  I  wrote  you  some  time  ago  of  our  move  to  Birmingham  and 
hope  to  write  you  soon  telling  you  we  have  returned  to  London.  I  was 
there  over  the  week  end,  and  while  the  building  at  "Ravenslea"  is  at  pres- 
ent unfit  for  human  habitation,  I  believe  it  can  be  repaired  soon,  as  there 
are  very  promising  indications  that  the  war  will  be  over  in  Europe  and  with 
it  the  menace  of  flying  bombs  removed. 

I  can  report  the  British  Mission  as  being  in  rather  a  satisfatory  condi- 
tion, satisfactory  when  you  view  it  in  the  light  of  what  has  happened  in 
these  last  four  years.  The  taking  away  of  practically  all  the  men  who  hold 
the  Priesthood,  the  breaking  up  of  families,  the  withdrawal  of  the  mission- 
aries, and  the  leaving  of  affairs  in  the  hands  of  local_  men,  have  all  had 
effects,  but  in  spite  of  it  all  there  is  a  valiant  band  of  Latter-day  Saints 
carrying  on  as  best  they  can  in  good  old  Britain. 

In  the  course  of  my  travels  to  the  branches  and  districts  of  the  mission, 
and  to  the  military  camps  and  air  bases,  I  have  an  unusual  opportunity  to 
see  a  cross  section  of  the  Church  in  action,  and  what  I  see  makes  me  proud. 

I  get  daily  letters  from  the  service  men  from  various  theatres  of  war 
and  from  the  training  camps,  and  in  all  of  them  there  is  a  spirit  of  humility, 
faith  in  God  and  trust  in  his  guiding  hand — this  is  evidence  of  the  helpful 
effects  of  early  training. 

We  have  also  received  reports  from  the  district  and  branch 
conferences  held  in  Norway  and  Denmark,  also  the  annual  confer- 
ence of  the  Swedish  Mission,  held  June  23  to  26 — four  days — and 
the  attendance  of  Saints  and  visiting  friends  is  reported  as  record- 
breaking. 

'  The  conference  in  Bergen  District,  of  the  Norwegian  Mission,  was 
scheduled  to  be  held  April  22  and  23,  but  because  of  a  terrific  ex- 
plosion in  Bergen  on  the  twentieth,  where  forty-three  people  met 
their  deaths  and  many  were  injured,  and  much  property  destroyed, 
the  scheduled  meetings  had  to  be  changed.  The  explosion  ruined 
some  of  the  homes  of  our  members,  but  the  members  themselves 
escaped  without  injury  with  the  exception  of  a  few  who  received 
some  scratches.  The  concert  that  was  to  have  been  given  Saturday 
night  was  given  Monday,  and  the  proceeds  given  to  these  sufferers; 
in  the  mission,  more  than  four  thousand  kroner  were  raised  for  the 
unfortunate  ones. 

In  Denmark,  in  addition  to  holding  their  regular  meetings, 
the  mission  has  had  made  and  placed  in  the  entrance  of  the  chapel 
in  Copenhagen,  a  memorial  marble  plaque  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  to  commemorate  the  one  hundredth  anniversary  of  the 
martydom  of  the  Prophet.  The  following  paragraph  is  quoted  from 
the  Danish  Star: 

The  memorial  is  not  to  be  brought  about  by  the  money  of  the  Church 
or  that  of  a  few  individuals;  that  would  be  contrary  to  the  very  idea  of  it. 
No,  every  Danish  Latter-day  Saint  who  acknowledges  his  faith  in  Joseph 
Smith  as  a  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator  must  share  in  it.  The  memorial  is 
to  be  a  symbol  of  our  unity  and  to  show  appreciation  for  what  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  has  done  for  every  member.   Thus  we  appeal  to  all  Saints. 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


71 


None  go  free,  children  or  adults,  all  are  to  take  part.  To  reciprocate  the 
amount  is  not  large,  only  twenty-five  ore  from  each.  Signed,  The  Commit- 
tee. 

In    a  letter  from  Sweden  we  received  the  following: 

I  am  in  hopes  that  President  McKay  received  my  telegram  with  salu- 
tations from  the  East  German  mission  president.  He  is  at  present  in 
German  military  service  in  the  neighborhood  of  Esbjerg,  Denmark,  and 
has  occasionally  been  addressing  the  meetings  held  there. 

Also  via  the  Swedish  Mission  comes  this  letter  from  our  new 
acting  mission  president  in  the  West  German  Mission: 

I  and  my  family  are  all  well,  and  also  of  my  brothers  and  sisters  I  have 
good  reports.  Even  though  the  war  has  demanded  sacrifices  from  among 
them,  still  the  Lord  has  greatly  blessed  us.  The  gatherings  are  kept  up, 
although  under  some  limitations.  From  the  statistics  on  the  reverse  side 
you  can  gain  a  survey.   This  is  for  1943: 

Children  blessed  62,  34  boys  and  28  girls. 

Baptisms  and  confirmations,  62. 

Ordinations,  75. 

Deaths,  70  members,  of  which  18  were  killed  in  the  war. 

A  brief  reference  to  the  French  Mission,  then  I  will  close. 
The  first  is  quoted  from  a  monthly  bulletin  now  being  issued  by 
the  French-Swiss  District. 

A  special  program  was  given  at  La  Chaux  de  Fonds  on  May  14,  honor- 
ing mothers,  with  children  contributing  the  major  part  of  the  program. 

Brother  Leon  Fargier  of  Valence,  France,  has  made  an  extensive  tour 
of  the  country,  visiting  among  others  the  branches  of  Paris  and  Besancon. 
Sacrament  meetings  were  held  in  each  place,  to  the  joy  of  the  Saints, 
almost  exclusively  women.  Other  branches  visited:  Nimes,  Valence, 
Grenoble,  and  St.  Etienne.  The  Saints,  although  few  in  numbers,  remain 
faithful  and  meet  together  regularly. 

A  Soldier's  Visit  in  France 

The  following  is  a  paragraph  from  a  letter  of  one  of  our 
soldier  boys,  Brother  James  P.  Condie — a  former  French  mission- 
ary now  with  the  Seventh  Army  in  France,  and  formerly  with  the 
Fifth  Army  in  Italy,  to  his  parents,  Brother  and  Sister  Parley  M. 
Condie,  of  Preston,  Idaho: 

I  had  the  long-dreamed-of  privilege  of"  holding  a  meeting  with  nine 
Saints  of  one  of  our  active  branches  before  the  war.  Some  others  were 
prisoners  or  in  the  F.F.I.  (Resistance) .  Several  were  ill,  and  we  have  vis- 
ited and  blessed  them. 

A  protestant  minister  offered  his  chapel  and  his  congregation,  but  I 
felt  with  so  little  time  I  had  best  hold  a  meeting  with  the  Saints,  and  then 
visit  as  many  sick  and  friends  as  possible.  It  was  a  glorious  occasion.  It 
was  for  them  the  dream  come  true.  I  concluded  that  missionaries  should 
be  sent  as  soon  as  possible.  There  is  a  lot  of  good  will  here  right  now. 
Several  expressed  the  desire  to  join  the  Church.  The  Saints  have  suffered 
much,  but  their  testimonies  are  an  inspiration. 

May  our  Father  in  heaven  continue  to  bless  Brother  Condie, 
and  the  80,000  others  of  our  young  men  who  are  now  serving  their 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Dag 


country.  They,  too,  are  missionaries;  we  are  missionaries.  This 
is  a  great  missionary  Church.  May  we  so  live  that  the  inspiration 
of  the  Lord  may  always  be  with  us,  so>  that  it  can  never  be  said 
of  any  one  of  us,  "He  was  called  and  found  wanting";  but  rather 
may  we  each  be  able  to  say  truthfully  when  our  earthly  mission  is 
finished,  as  Paul  said:  "I  have  fought  a  good  fight,  I  have  finished 
my  course,  I  have  kept  the  faith,"  I  pray  in  the  name  of  our  Savior. 
Amen. 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Prompted  by  my  reflections  over  the  past  months  of  experiences 
I  have  had,  and  inspired  by  that  very  comprehensive  message  read 
to  us  from  President  Grant,  and  from  the  impressions  of  this  meet- 
ing, I  have  some  things  I  should  like  to  say  that  to  me  should  be  vital 
to  all  Latter-day  Saints,  and  indeed  to  all  seekers  after  truth. 

Dreams  and  Delusions 

There  came  to  my  office  some  time  ago  a  faithful  Latter-day 
Saint  who  related  an  experience  in  which  she  was  placed  in  a  very 
embarrassing  situation.  She  had  been  deceived  and  led  astray  by 
those  who  professed  to  have  had  spiritual  manifestations,  and  be- 
cause she  had  followed  what  she  thought  was  the  light,  she  had  found 
herself  in  rather  serious  economic  difficulties.  As  she  finished  the 
story  of  her  experience,  she  asked  me  this  question:  "How  can  one 
be  certain  that  a  thing  is  true  or  false,  or  that  his  decision  is  approved 
of  the  Lord?" 

I  have  thought  a  lot  about  that  question,  because  I  find  it  being 
asked  by  those  who  have  been  led  into  conditions  of  confusion,  by 
those  who  have  professed  to  have  received  by  dreams  and  revela- 
tions certain  information  as  to  mining  properties  that  were  supposed- 
ly for  religious  and  spiritual  purposes.  I  have  known  of  those  who 
have  likewise  been  led  into  organizations  that  were  unholy  because 
of  their  listening  to  teachings  of  some  who  profess  to  set  up  organiza- 
tions they  call  the  "United  Order."  It  is  the  same  question  that  many 
of  our  fine  young  women  are  asking  when  there  are  those  who  en- 
courage them  to  live  in  illicit  relationships  under  guise  of  authorized 
marriage  contracts,  by  some  who  profess  to  be  the  authorized  serv- 
ants of  the  Lord. 

From  students  who  are  struggling  in  their  higher  education  we 
have  the  same  inquiry:  "How  may  we  know  the  difference  between 
truth  and  that  which  we  study  so  often  in  our  textbooks?" 

There  are  those  in  the  military  service,  under  the  pressure  of  the 
expediencies  of  war,  who  are  imbibing  many  distorted  views  that 
they  have  difficulty  in  squaring  with  the  truth.  In  these  days  hardly 
do  we  listen  to  the  radio  to  one  who  gives  a  political  speech  but  what 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


73 


we  hear  the  shouts  of  "Untruth!"  and  opposing  speakers  being  called 
untruthful. 

In  a  recent  visit  to  a  conference  I  learned  that  a  man  had  attained 
quite  a  following  by  relating  what  he  termed  a  vision,  in  which  the 
Savior  was  supposed  to  have  appeared  to  him,  and  he  thought  he  was 
making  a  great  contribution  to  the  personality  of  the  Savior  by  tell- 
ing the  people  that  He  had  red  hair,  in  contradiction  to  the  revela- 
tions of  the  Lord. 

So  in  all  these  experiences  the  question  is  asked:  "How  may 
we  know  the  difference  between  truth  and  error,  and  how  may  we 
be  able  to  detect  the  same?" 

The  Word  of  the  Lord 

As  I  studied  the  matter  and  gave  some  thought  to  it,  I  found  the 
Lord  had  revealed  something  very  precious  to  us.    He  said: 

Behold,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  there  are  many  spirits  which  are 
false  spirits,  which  have  gone  forth  in  the  earth,  deceiving  the  world.  .  .  . 

Behold,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  there  are  hypocrites  among  you,  who 
have  deceived  some,  which  has  given  the  adversary  power;  but  behold  such 
shall  be  reclaimed; 

But  the  hypocrites  shall  be  detected  and  shall  be  cut  off,  either  in  life 
or  in  death,  even  as  I  will;  and  wo  unto  them  who  are  cut  off  from  my 
church,  for  the  same  are  overcome  of  the  world.  (Doc.  and  Cov.  50:2,  7-8.) 

The  Lord  has  told  us  further  that  we  should  seek  the  best  gifts, 
that  we  be  not  led  astray.  Apparently  the  Lord  had  in  mind  the  very 
conditions  under  which  we  now  live,  for  in  the  words  of  prophecy 
that  he  gave  to  his  disciples  when  they  asked  him  how  they  should 
know  when  his  second  coming  was  nigh,  he  said  this : 

For  there  shall  arise  false  Christs,  and  false  prophets,  and  shall  shew 
great  signs  and  wonders;  insomuch  that,  if  it  were  possible,  they  shall  de- 
ceive the  very  elect.  (Matt.  24:24.) 

Now  mark  you  these  words — "who  are  the  elect  according  to 
the  covenant." 

Satan's  Aim  is  to  Deceive 

Some  of  those  were  to  be  led  astray  who  were  to  be  members  of 
his  Church  so  I  am  not  surprised  in  this  day  when  with  the  power  of 
these  evil  spirits  they  are  finding  a  following  from  those  who  profess 
membership  in  the  Church.  The  extremes  to  which  the  master  of 
darkness  would  go  to  lead  astray  those  who  were  to  be  deceived  is 
indicated  by  the  experiences  of  many  of  our  prophets.  I  cite  the  ex- 
perience of  Alma's  contention  with  the  anti-Christ,  Korihor,  who, 
you  remember,  was  stricken  dumb  when  he  asked  for  a  sign,  and 
while  he  was  thus  impressed  that  the  power  of  the  Lord  was  upon 
him  in  judgment  because  of  his  wickedness,  wrote  his  testimony  that 
Satan  had  appeared  to  him  as  an  angel  of  light  and  had  told  him  that 
there  was  no  such  a  thing  as  God. 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7 


Second  Day 


So  he  may  come  today  with  guileful  ways,  with  deceiving  and 
lying  spirits,  to  entrap  us. 

But  the  Lord  has  not  left  his  people  alone,  and  those  who  would 
may  be  well  guided  in  the  midst  of  these  trying  conditions.  The 
prophets  of  every  dispensation,  and  indeed  our  own  leader  in  this 
conference,  has  told  his  people  how  they  might  avoid  these  pitfalls. 
The  Apostle  Paul  said: 

.  .  .  Eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard,  neither  have  entered  into  the 
heart  of  man,  the  things  which  God  hath  prepared  for  them  that  love  him. 

But  God  hath  revealed  them  unto  us  by  his  Spirit:  for  the  Spirit  search- 
eth  all  things,  yea,  the  deep  things  of  God. 

For  what  man  knoweth  the  things  of  a  man,  save  the  spirit  of  man 
which  is  in  him?  even  so  the  things  of  God  knoweth  no  man,  but  the  Spirit 
of  God.  .  .  .  Neither  can  he  know  them,  because  they  are  spiritually  dis- 
cerned. (I  Cor.  2:9-11,  14.) 

Light  Given  Through  the  Holy  Ghost 

The  writer  of  the  Gospel  of  John,  told  of  a  light,  in  describing 
the  powers  controlled  and  operated  by  the  Savior,  the  true  light  that 
was  to  light  every  man  that  cometh  into  the  world.  In  modern  revela- 
tion the  Lord  told  us  more  about  this  when  he  spoke  of  the  light  which 
was  to  shine,  which  was  to  enlighten  our  understanding,  and  was  to 
give  light  and  intelligence  to  all  mankind;  it  was  to  be  in  the  light  of 
the  sun,  the  moon  and  the  stars;  indeed,  we  might  say  this  light  was 
to  constitute  the  reason  in  man  and  the  instinct  in  animal  life. 

But  to  baptized  believers  there  was  a  greater  light  given,  and 
that  was  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  which  has  been  spoken  of  here. 
That  power  which  Jesus  described  was  to  give  us  power  to  under- 
stand all  things,  to  bring  to  our  recollection  that  which  he  had  taught, 
to  reprove  the  world  of  sin  and  of  righteousness  and  judgment,  and 
to  guide  us  into  all  truth.  Moroni  told  us  that  if  we  ask  with  a  sin- 
cere heart,  with  real  intent  and  with  faith  in  Christ,  that  by  the  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  we  might  know  the  truth  of  all  things. 

These  powers  are  given  to  us  on  condition.  And  the  conditions 
as  to  the  ways  by  which  man  might  be  darkened  and  be  unable  to 
see  and  perceive  by  these  great  God-given  powers  were  well  set  forth 
yesterday  by  Brother  Kimball  in  his  very  excellent  address.  We  are 
to  understand  further  that  the  wicked  one  would  come  and  that  he 
should  take  away  light  and  truth  from  the  children  of  men  through 
disobedience. 

I  listened  to  a  doctor  friend  explain  a  very  interesting  matter  to 
me,  when  he  said  that  all  germ  cells  within  each  individual  were  di- 
rectly or  indirectly  connected  with  some  nerve  system.  By  that  con- 
nection there  was  made  possible  an  intelligence  in  the  individual 
necessary  to  maintain  the  vital  life  processes.  So,  likewise,  it  seems  to 
me,  that  in  the  Church  we  as  individuals  must  maintain  our  connection 
with  the  source  of  divine  intelligence  if  we,  too,  are  to  maintain  and 
direct  the  growth  of  our  spiritual  lives  properly.  Failure  to  main- 
tain this  intelligent  connection  in  the  germ  cell  or  the  individual 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


75 


brings  decay,  stagnation,  and  death,  in  the  case  of  the  individual,  or 
spiritual  death  in  the  case  of  a  member  of  this  Church. 

There  are  spiritual  phenomena  that  have  sometimes  disturbed 
us  and  that  have  seemed  to  be  induced  by  this  master  of  darkness. 
The  Lord  has  given  us  certain  definite  ways  by  which  we  may  per- 
ceive and  detect  the  same.  In  one  revelation  he  told  us,  "And  that 
which  doth  not  edify  is  not  of  God,  and  is  darkness.  That  which  is 
of  God  is  light;  and  he  that  receiveth  light,  and  continueth  in  God, 
receiveth  more  light;  and  that  light  groweth  brighter  and  brighter 
until  the  perfect  day." 

Again  he  told  us  we  might  understand  that  those  who  were  or- 
dained of  God  and  were  set  at  the  head,  to  them  would  be  given  the 
understanding  to  know  the  difference  between  these  spirits,  suggest- 
ing clearly  that  it  was  the  business  of  the  members  of  the  Church  to 
seek  to  be  guided  by  the  counsel  of  those  who  have  been  set  at  the 
head. 

Authority  Vested  in  the  Head  of  the  Church 

In  the  revelation  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  known  as 
the  132nd  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  Lord  sets  this 
out  in  plainness,  in  which  he  said  that  there  is  only  one  man  on  the 
earth  at  one  time  who  holds  the  keys  of  this  authority,  by  which  all 
contracts  and  bonds  and  things  pertaining  to  the  salvation  of  the 
children  of  men  should  be  sealed. 

In  an  address  delivered  by  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  in  Oc- 
tober of  1920,  he  made  an  explanation  of  this  matter.   He  said: 

I  hold  the  priesthood;  you  brethren  here  hold  the  priesthood;  we  have 
received  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood — which  was  held  by  Elijah  and  by 
other  prophets  and  by  Peter,  James  and  John.  But  while  we  have  authority 
to  baptize,  while  we  have  authority  to  lay  on  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  and  to  ordain  others  and  do  all  these  things,  without  the  sealing 
power  we  could  do  nothing,  for  there  would  be  no  validity  to  that  which 
we  did.  Of  course  an  elder  can  baptize,  and  they  did  baptize  before  Elijah 
came,  and  that  was  valid,  and  the  ordinance  work  that  was  done  then  was 
valid;  but  the  higher  ordinances,  the  greater  blessings  which  are  essential' 
to  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  which  can  only  be  obtained  in 
certain  places,  no  man  has  a  right  to  perform  except  as  he  receives  the 
authority  to  do  it  from  the  one  who  holds  the  keys.  It  makes  no  difference 
how  great  an  office  you  have,  what  position  in  the  Church  you  hold,  you 
cannot  officiate  unless  the  keys,  the  sealing  power,  is  there  back  of  it.  .  .  . 

I  have  no  right,  there  is  no  man  upon  the  face  of  this  earth  who  has 
the  right  to  go  fdrth  and  administer  in  any  of  the  ordinances  of  this  gospel 
unless  the  President  of  the  Church,  who  holds  the  keys,  sanctions  it.  He 
has  given  us  authority,  he  has  put  the  sealing  power  in  our  priesthood, 
because  he  holds  those  keys;  and  if  the  President  of  the  Church  should  say^ 
to  us,  "You  shall  not  baptize  in  this  state  or  in  that  state,  or  in  this  nation. ' 
any  man  that  would  go  forth  to  baptize  contrary  to  that  command  would 
be  violating  a  command  of  God  and  going  contrary  to  authority  and  power; 
and  that  which  he  did  would  not  be  sealed.  .  .  .  The  man  who  holds  the 
keys  can  bestow  and  he  can  withdraw;  he  can  give  the  power,  and  he  may 
take  it  again;  and  if  he  takes  it,  that  ends  our  right  to  officiate.  That  has 
been  done;  it  may  be  done  again. 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Day 


How  to  Detect  Truth  from  Error 

I  wish  that  we  understood  that.  I  wish  that  we  might  under- 
stand these  principles  by  which  we  might  obtain  this  light,  as  an  an- 
swer to  those  who  ask  us  the  question,  "How  may  we  detect  truth 
from  error?" 

To  all  those  then  who  would  seek  an  answer  to  their  question 
may  we  reply  by  asking  them  these  questions: 

Are  you  living  righteously  in  order  that  you  may  enjoy  the  in- 
fluence of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  the  revelations  of  the  Holy  Ghost? 
Have  you  studied  the  matter  out  in  your  mind,  and  then  have  you 
asked  God  if  this  thing  is  right?  If  so,  you  may  have  the  right  to  en- 
joy the)  spirit  to  know  that  it  is  right.  Does  that  which  you  have  had 
presented  to  you  enlighten  you?  Does  it  edify  your  soul?  Is  it  in  har- 
mony with  the  teachings  of  the  Gospel?  Is  it  approved  and  accepted 
by  those  who  preside  as  the  leaders  of  the  Church? 

If  your  answers  to  these  questions  are  in  the  affirmative,  then 
you  are  entitled  to  the  great  promise  that  the  Lord  made  in  a  revela- 
tion to  this  people,  in  which  he  said:  "And  if  your  eye  be  single  to 
my  glory,  your  whole  body  shall  be  filled  with  light,  and  there  shall 
be  no  darkness  in  you,  and  that  body  which  is  filled  with  light  com- 
prehendeth  all  things." 

May  the  leaders  of  this  people  who  sit  in  this  congregation  so 
live  and  so  teach  that  those  who  are  wavering  in  their  faith,  who  are 
being  led  astray  by  these  false  and  lying  spirits,  may  be  so  taught 
to  live  and  to  walk  that  they  might  enjoy  this  fulness  of  light  that  will 
preserve  them  from  the  errors  that  otherwise  would  bring  their  down- 
fall, I  pray  humbly,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  congregation  joined  in  singing  "Lord  Dismiss  Us"  (Song 
Folder  No.  21),  after  which  the  benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  Leo  O.  Hansen,  President  of  the  Portneuf  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.m. 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  2  o'clock  p.m.,  Saturday,  October  7, 
with  President  David  O.  McKay  of  the  First  Presidency  conducting 
the  exercises. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  is  the  fourth  session  of  the  1 1 5th  Semi-Annual  Confer- 
ence of  the  Church. 

President  Grant,  who  has  a  djrect  wire  from  the  tabernacle  to 
h;s  home,  has  requested  that  his  Second  Counselor  conduct  the 
exercises. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


77 


There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon  the  Counselors 
in  the  First  Presidency,  the  members  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
the  Patriarch  to  the  Church,  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  (ex- 
cepting Elder  Alma  Sonne,  who  is  on  a  special  assignment),  the 
presidents  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  the  Presiding 
Bishopric. 

The  congregation  is  made  up  of  mission,  stake,  ward  and 
quorum  officers  as  heretofore  announced  in  the  public  press. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  are  broadcast  over  radio  sta- 
tion KSL,  also  KSUB  at  Cedar  City.  We  appreciate  this  cour- 
tesy. 

Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  will  direct  the  music,  and  Elder  Wade 
N.  Stephens  is  at  the  organ. 

The  congregation  will  now  sing,  "O  Ye  Mountains  High," 
number  12  in  your  Folder,  238  in  the  Hymn  Book. 


The  congregation  then  joined  in  singing,  "O  Ye  Mountains 
High." 

Elder  I.  Homer  Smith,  President  of  the  Sacramento  Stake,  of- 
fered the  invocation. 

Singing  by  the  congregation,  "High  On  the  Mountain  Top" 
(Song  Folder  No.  10,  L.D.S.  Hymn  Book  No.  131 ). 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

I  pray  I  may  have  your  sympathy  and  faith  and  prayers  while 
I  stand  before  you  to  discharge  this  duty. 

Many  appropriate  references  have  been  made  during  this 
conference  to  the  desirability  of  peace.  I  am  wondering  if  and 
when  peace  does  come,  whether  the  nations  will  be  sufficiently  wise 
to  avert  a  third  world  war. 

Jesus'  Grief  over  Jerusalem 

And  when  he  was  come  near,  he  beheld  the  city,  and  wept  over  it. 

Saying,  If  thou  hadst  known,  even  thou,  at  least  in  this  thy  day,  the 
things  which  belong  unto  thy  peace!  but  now  they  are  hid  from  thine  eyes. 
(Luke  19:41,  42.) 

According  to  tradition,  when  these  words  were  spoken,  Jesus 
stood  on  the  Mount  of  Olives,  opposite  a  point  in  the  walls  sur- 
rounding Jerusalem  a  few  yards  south  of  the  Gate  Beautiful.  From 
this  spot  one  may  behold  a  beautiful  view  of  that  historic  city. 

It  is  wonderfully  picturesque,  with  its  quaint,  flat-roofed 
houses,  church  towers,  and  mosque  domes  covering  the  four  hills 
on  which  Jerusalem  is  built.  The  view  is  impressive  even  now;  it 
must  have  been  inspiring  when  Jesus  beheld  it  in  all  its  Herodian 
splendor.  1 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  7  Second  Dag 

But  it  was  the  inhabitants  of  the  city,  not  the  beautiful  build- 
ings or  the  commanding  view  that  the  Savior  saw  through  tear  be- 
dimmed  eyes  when  he  cried:  "If  thou  hadst  known  .  .  .  the  things 
which  belong  unto  thy  peace!  but  now  they  are  hid  from  thine 
eyes."  (Luke  19:42.)  He  saw  the  people  divided  into  conflicting 
and  contending  sects,  each  professing  more  holiness  and  right- 
eousness than  the  other  and  all  closing  their  eyes  to  the  truth. 
There  were  the  conservative  Hebraic  Jews,  holding  rigidly  to  the 
Mosaic  law;  there  were  the  more  liberal  minded,  Hellenistic  Jews 
whose  views  had  been  modified  by  pagan  philosophy;  there  were  a 
tew  Essenes  with  their  asceticism  and  rejection  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood;  there  were  the  Sadducees  with  their  lifeless  and  formal 
observance  of  the  Sabbath,  and  their  denial  of  the  resurrection;  and, 
finally,  the  Pharisees  with  their  "ostentatious  almsgiving,"  "broad- 
ened phylacteries,"  "greedy  avarice,"  "haughty  assertion  of  pre- 
eminence," "ill-concealed  hypocrisy"  which  was  often  hidden  under 
a  venerable  assumption  of  superior  holiness. 

No  wonder  the  Savior,  seeing  such  division  among  the  people, 
prayed  to  the  Father  so  earnestly  in  behalf  of  his  own  little  flock 
to  keep  them  "one  as  we  are  one."  No  wonder  the  Savior,  dis- 
cerning perfectly  the  deceit  and  hypocrisy  underneath  the  glassed- 
over  outside  of  religion,  uttered  such  scathing  denunciation  when 
he  said: 

.  .  .  Woe  unto  you,  scribes  and  Pharisees,  hypocrites!  for  ye  shut  up 
the  kingdom  of  heaven  against  men:  for  ye  neither  go  in  yourselves,  neither 
suffer  ye  them  that  are  entering  to  go  in.  (Matthew  23:13.) 

Such  were  the  people  whom  the  Son  of  Man  saw  when  he 
stood  twenty  centuries  ago  on  the  Mount  of  Olives  and  "beheld 
the  city  and  wept  over  it." 

History  Being  Repeated 

So  we  may  picture  him  today  weeping  over  a  world  weltering 
in  an  orgy  of  blood  because  a  few  gangsters  fired  by  selfishness, 
revenge  and  desire  for  conquest  have  gone  mad.  Impelled  by 
greedy  avarice,  and  arrogating  to  themselves  racial  superiority,  they 
strode  forth  to  subdue,  to  conquer,  and  to  kill.  There  was  nothing 
left  for  law-abiding,  peace-loving  people  to  do  but  to  try  to  prevent 
their  depredations  and  murder.  The  result  is  the  thunder-roar  of 
a  million  cannons,  the  devastation  of  cities  and  farms,  the  wailing 
and  suffering  of  women  and  children,  the  groans  of  the  wounded 
and  of  the  dying,  and  the  death  of  the  chosen  youth  of  our  land. 

Approximately  only  a  quarter  of  a  century  ago,  the  world 
listened  to  the  clanging  of  arms  of  nations  fighting  in  a  worldwide 
war  that  was  supposed  to  end  war  forever.  Up  to  that  time  it  was 
the  bloodiest  war  in  history. 

Again,  misguided  leaders  of  nations,  worshiping  the  god  of 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


79 


materialism,  have  brought  on  World  War  II,  and  unless  the  na- 
tions avoid  the  evil  things  which  caused  this  war,  there  will  be  a 
World  War  III  even  more  destructive,  more  terrible  than  the  pres- 
ent murderous  conflict.   Like  causes  produce  like  effects. 

Now,  while  the  trying  exigencies  of  war  are  wringing  our 
hearts,  it  would  seem  the  part  of  wisdom  for  men  to  examine  some 
of  the  basic  causes  that  produce  armed  conflict  with  the  view  of 
avoiding  them  in  the  future. 

Development  of  Brutal  Instincts 

The  seeds  of  war  lie  in  man's  nature.  These  seeds  germinate 
at  the  first  natural  urge  for  self-preservation,  self-perpetuation  or 
a  desire  for  conquest.  , 

The  fruit  of  such  seeds  is  hatred  and  brutality. 

Knowing  this,  the  world's  chief  gangster  trained  his  youth  to 
be  brutal.  In  anticipation,  indeed,  in  glorification  of  armed  con- 
flict, this  man  declared  that  he  would  train  youth  to  be  brutal.  "In 
my  great  educative  work,"  said  he,  "I  am  beginning  with  the  young. 
.  .  .  Weakness  has  to  be  knocked  out  of  them.  ...  A  violently  active, 
dominating,  intrepid,  brutal  youth — that  is  what  I  am  after.  There 
must  be  no  weakness  or  tenderness  in  it.  I  want  to  see  once  more 
in  its  eyes  the  gleam  of  pride  and  independence  of  the  beast  ol 
prey." 

It  is  significant  that  one  hundred  years  before  this  egotistic 
leader  began  to  poison  the  minds  of  youth,  a  German  philosopher 
— Heinrich  Heine — warned  the  German  people  that: 

Evils  will  follow  the  rise  of  "Germanic  pantheism,"  because  then  there 
will  awake  in  him  that  fighting  folly  that  we  find  among  the  ancient  Ger- 
mans, that  fights  neither  to  kill  nor  to  conquer,  but  simply  to  fight.  Christ- 
ianity has — and  that  is  its  fairest  merit — somewhat  mitigated  that  brutal 
German  lust  for  battle.  But  it  could  not  destroy  it;  and  once  the  taming 
talisman,  the  cross,  is  broken,  the  savagery  of  the  old  battlers  will  flare  up 
again,  the  insane  rage  of  which  Nordic  bards  have  so  much  to  say  and 
sing.  That  talisman 'is  brittle.  The  day  will  come  when  it  will  pitiably 
collapse.  Then  the  old  stone  gods  will  rise  from  forgotten  rubble  and  rub 
the  dust  of  a  thousand  years  from  their  eyes;  and  Thor  will  leap  up  and 
with  his  giant  hammer  start  smashing  Gothic  cathedrals,  .  .  .  and  when  you 
"  hear  a  crash  as  nothing  ever  crashed  in  world  history,  you'll  know  that  the 
German  thunder  has  hit  the  mark.  At  that  sound  the  eagles  will  fall  dead 
from  the  sky,  and  the  lions  in  the  farthest  desert  of  Africa  will  put  in  their 
tails  and  slink  away  into  their  royal  caves. 

A  play  will  be  performed  that  will  make  the  French  Revolution  seem 
like  a  harmless  idyll  in  comparison. 

Beware!  I  wish  you  well;  that  is  why  I  tell  you  the  bitter  truth.  You 
have  more  to  fear  from  a  liberated  Germany  than  from  the  whole  Holy 
Alliance  with  all  its  Croats  and  Cossacks.  (Heinrich  Heine,  Works  of 
Prose,  ed.  by  Herman  Kesen,  pp.  51-53.) 

The  Collapse  of  Humanitarian  Principles 

The  substitution  of  ancient  gods  for  Christianity  was  followed 
by  the  collapse  of  humanitarian  principles,  and,  as  Will  Erwin 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Day 

said  in  "An  Appeal  to  Common  Sense,"  men  were  back  to  the 
ethics  of  the  barbarian  hordes.  Barbarians  of  the  twentieth  cen- 
tury before  Christ  killed  in  any  manner  which  their  imagination 
suggested.  And  so  now  do  civilized  men  of  the  twentieth  century 
after  Christ.  The  barbarians  of  the  twentieth  century  before 
Christ  killed  the  women  and  children  of  the  enemy  as  tribal 
self-interest  seemed  to  dictate,  and  so  now  do  so-called  civilized  men 
of  the  twentieth  century  after  Christ.  The  barbarians  of  the  twen- 
tieth century  before  Christ  made  slaves  of  the  conquered  people,  or 
forced  them  to  pay  tribute;  so  virtually  do  civilized  men  of  the 
twentieth  century  after  Christ. 

"A  brutal  youth,"  having  in  their  eyes  "the  gleam  of  the  beast 
of  prey"  hark  back  to  the  law  of  the  jungle,  as  far  as  from  the 
teaching  of  Christ  as  hades  from  Heaven!  It  is  the  doctrine  of 
avarice,  selfishness,  and  hate. 

There  are  some  things  which  man  should  hate — he  should  hate 
injustice,  hate  hypocrisy;  hate  wickedness  in  all  its  forms,  but  never 
hate  mankind. 

We  hope  and  pray  that  this  second  World  War  will  soon 
come  to  an  end,  and  that  war-weary,  heavy-hearted  peoples  may 
again  have  peace.  What  then?  After  all  the  suffering,  after  all 
the  destruction  of  human  life,  shall  we  be  so  blind  as  to  have  it 
start  all  over  again?  If  the  germ  of  hate  is  permitted  to  develop,  if 
strong  nations  strive  to  dominate  the  weak  as  Mussolini  did 
Ethiopia,  as  Japan  did  Manchuria;  if  the  few  ruling  nations,  mighty 
in  the  implements  of  warfare,  seek  to  dominate  weaker  nations  and 
to  tell  them  how  to  live  and  what  to-  do;  if  they  seek  success  only 
in  materialism  and  shut  their  eyes  to>  the  value  of  human  souls;  if 
they  reject  the  teachings  of  Christ  and  pursue  their  selfish  interests, 
history  will  repeat  itself,  the  world  will  be  plunged  into  another 
war,  and  again  the  Lord  in  pity  and  sorrow  will  weep  over  the 
folly  and  blindness  of  the  human  race. 

Peace  will  come  and  be  maintained  only  through  the  triumph 
of  the  principles  of  peace,  and  by  the  consequent  subjugation  of  the 
enemies  of  peace,  which  are  hatred,  envy,  ill-gotten  gain,  the  ex- 
ercise of  unrighteous  dominion  of  men.  Yielding  to  these  evils  brings 
misery  to  the  individual,  unhappiness  to  the  home,  war  among  na- 
tions, with  resultant  misery  and  death. 

Two  thousand  years  ago  Jesus  wept  over  Jerusalem,  the  in- 
habitants of  which  were  blind  to  the  things  which  pertained  to 
their  peace.  Today  contention,  strife  and  hatred  are  manifest  be- 
tween capital  and  labor  unions,  and  bitterness  among  advocates 
of  Nazism,  Fascism,  Communism,  and  Capitalism.  No  matter  how 
excellent  any  of  these  may  seem  in  the  minds  of  their  advocates, 
none  will  ameliorate  the  ills  of  mankind  unless  its  operation  in  gov- 
ernment be  impregnated  with  the  basic  principles  promulgated  by 
the  Savior  of  men,    On  the  contrary,  even  a  defective  economic 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


81 


system  will  produce  good  results  if  the  men  who  direct  it  will  be 
guided  by  the  spirit  of  Christ. 

Actuated  by  that  spirit,  leaders  will  think  more  of  men  than  of 
the  success  of  a  system.  Kindness,  mercy,  and  justice  will  be  sub- 
stituted for  hatred,  suspicion,  and  greed.  There  is  no  road  to  uni- 
versal peace,  which  does  not  lead  to  the  heart  of  humanity. 

To  Avoid  Another  War,  Then,  People  Must  Change 
Their  Way  of  Thinking 

Men  say  that  so  long  as  human  nature  is  as  near  to  the 
animal  nature  as  it  is,  that  selfishness,  suspicion,  greed,  chicanery, 
will  continue  to  pervade  and  govern  human  society.  If  that  be  true 
then  man  must  rise  above  the  animal  instincts,  and  strive  for  the 
higher  and  more  abundant  life.  If  this  requires  a  change  of  human 
nature,  then  human  nature  must  be  changed.  On  this  point,  Bev- 
erley Nichols  writes  impressively: 

You  can  change  human  nature.  No  man  who  has  felt  in  him  the 
spirit  of  Christ,  even  for  half  a  minute,  can  deny  this  truth,  the  one  great 
truth  in  a  world  of  little  lies.  You  do  change  human  nature,  your  own  hu- 
man nature,  if  you  surrender  it  to  him.  To  deny  this  is  only  to  proclaim 
yourself  as  an  uneducated  fool.  .  .  . 

Human  nature  can  be  changed,  here  and  now. 

Human  nature  has  been  changed,  in  the  past. 

Human  nature  must  be  changed,  on  an  enormous  scale,  in  the  future, 
unless  the  world  is  to  be  drowned  in  its  own  blood. 
And  only  Christ  can  change  it.  .  .  . 

Twelve  men  did  quite  a  lot  to  change  the  world,  nineteen  hundred 
years  ago.  Twelve  simple  men,  with  only  the  wind  to  bear  them  over  the 
seas,  with  only  a  few  pence  in  their  pockets,  and  a  shining  faith  in  their 
hearts.  They  fell  far  short  of  their  ideal,  their  words  were  twisted  and 
mocked,  and  false  temples  were  built  over  their  bones,  in  praise  of  a  Christ 
they  would  have  rejected.  And  yet,  by  the  light  of  their  inspiration  many 
of  the  world's  loveliest  things  were  created,  and  many  of  the  world's  finest 
minds  inspired. 

If  twelve  men  did  that,  nineteen  hundred  years  ago,  what  might  not 
twelve  men  do  today?  For  God  has  now  given  us  the  power  of  whispering 
across  space,  of  transmitting  our  thoughts  from  one  end  of  the  earth  to  an- 
other. What  shall  we  whisper — what  shall  we  think?  That  is  the  ques- 
tion. {The  Foot  Hath  Said,  p.  272.) 

Eliminate  Arrogance  of  Superiority 

With  the  spirit  of  Christ  in  their  hearts  no  nation  will  arrogate 
to  itself  superiority  over  others,  but  give  to  each  nation,  however 
small,  however  seemingly  backward,  the  right  of  self -determination. 

Seek  Material  Advancement  as  a  Means 
to  Spiritual  Attainment 

With  the  spirit  of  the  gospel  in  men's  hearts,  nations  will  ac- 
cept the  truth  that  integrity  is  more  to  be  desired  than  intellectual 
acumen  or  the  accumulation  of  wealth.  Men  will  then  look  upon 
material  advancement  not  as  an  .  end  in  itself,  but  as  a  means  to 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7 


Second  Day 


spiritual  attainment.  They  will  recognize  the  significance  of  "Seek 
ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  his  righteousness;  and  all  these 
things  shall  be  added  unto  you."  Statesmen,  churchmen,  school 
teachers,  civic  officers,  newspapers  —  all  who  in  any  way  mold 
public  opinion  must  grapple  intelligently  with  spiritual  apathy  and 
moral  decay. 

Some  day  men  must  realize  that  only  true  religion  can  satisfy 
the  yearning  soul. 

Two  Great  Forces  Point  the  Way  to  Peace 

I  see  two  great  forces  leading  the  way  from  the  abyss  of  an- 
other World  War  into  the  realm  of  peace  and  progress — America 
and  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

America  has  the  great  opportunity  to  lead  the  world  from 
poltical  intrigue  and  cheap  demagoguery,  from  national  selfishness, 
from  unrighteous  usurpation  of  power,  and  from  unholy  aggran- 
dizement. She  must  prove  to  the  peoples  of  Europe  and  of  all  the 
world  that  she  has  no  selfish  ends  to  serve,  no  desire  for  conquest, 
no  arrogance  of  national  or  race  superiority.  When  these  ideals  are 
established  America  can  blaze  the  trail  and  lead  the  world  to  peace. 

This  is  a  land  where  hate  should  die — 
This  is  a  land  where  strife  should  cease, 
Where  foul,  suspicious  fear  should  fly 
Before  our  flag  of  light  and  peace. 

But  I  repeat,  permanent  peace  will  be  found  only  in  the  appli- 
cation of  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of  peace.  Christ  came  to 
earth  to  bring  peace  and  good  will.  When  he  said:  "I  came  not  to 
send  peace,  but  a  sword,"  he  perceived  how  the  acceptance  of 
eternal  principles  might  render  asunder  the  dearest  ties,  and  how  a 
man's  foes  may  become  those  of  his  own  household.  Asserting  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  over  everything  else,  he  added:  "He  that 
loveth  father  or  mother  more  than  me  is  not  worthy  of  me;  and  he 
that  loveth  son  or  daughter  more  than  me  is  not  worthy  of  me." 
Thus  he  but  emphasized  the  great  truth  that  acceptance  of  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  is  the  supreme  purpose  of  life. 

Again  the  Lord  has  revealed  himself  to  man,  and  in  that  revel- 
ation may  be  found  the  answer  to  the  perplexities  and  yearnings 
of  the  human  soul. 

Again  in  this  age  Christ  has  said: 

...  I  am  the  light  of  the  world:  he  that  followeth  me  shall  not  walk 
in  darkness,  but  shall  have  the  light  of  life.  (John  8:12.) 

I  feel  that  we  can  join  with  the  poet  in  saying: 

O  Christ,  who  died  to  give  men  life, 
Bring  that  victorious  hour, 
When  man  shall  use  for  peace,  not  strife, 
His  valor,  skill,  and  power. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


83 


God  grant  that  the  nations  of  the  earth  will  soon  open  their  eyes, 
3nd  behold  the  light  of  the  world,  and  thereby  accept  in  this  day 
the  things  which  belong  unto  their  peace,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Sitting  in  this  large  audience  are  a  number  of  men  in  the 
service  of  their  country.  They  wear  the  uniform  of  United 
States  soldiers.  It  is  always  a  fine  thing  to  have  them  in  our  midst. 
On  the  banks  of  the  Potomac  River  in  Washington  at  Arlington 
Cemetery,  is  the  tomb  of  the  Unknown  Soldier  whose  body  was 
brought  from  France  at  the  close  of  the  First  World  War.  Carved 
on  the  tomb  is  a  message  of  beauty.  It  reads:  "Here  lies  in  honored 
glory  an  American  soldier  known  but  to  God" — a  message  that 
all  Americans  may  do  well  to  keep  in  mind. 

I  wish  to  have  the  help  of  my  Father  in  heaven  while  I  speak 
to  you  this  afternoon. 

Present-day  Conditions 

The  Puritan  preacher,  John  Eliot,  known  as  the  apostle  to  the 
Indians,  wrote  as  a  preface  to  his  Bible  after  having  translated  it 
into  the  Narragansett  language:  "Work,  with  faith  in  Jesus  Christ, 
can  accomplish  all  things."  It  was  a  motto  peculiarly  fitting  to  his 
times;  it  is  peculiarly  fitting  in  our  own  day.  It  meant  as  Frederick 
Harrison  has  aptly  written  that  to  toil  in  producing  things  needful 
for  human  life  is  to  offer  up  ourselves  to  the  law  of  creation  which 
ordained  that  life  on  this  earth  could  only  be  sustained  by  the  sweat 
of  man's  brow.  The  terrible  times  through  which  we  are  passing 
are  destined  to  leave  war  within  every  nation  as  well  as  our  own. 
It  may  prove  harder  to  win  peace  than  to  win  war.  There  will 
be  a  dearth  of  food,  of  clothing,  and  saddest  of  all,  a  lack  of 
Christian  fellowship.  Are  the  religious  forces  influential  enough  to 
set  an  example  of  self-denial,  of  self-restraint,  of  discipline  and  a 
renewed  faith  in  the  teachings  of  the  Savior  of  the  world,  who 
taught  that  peace  can  only  come  as  people  love  the  Lord  their  God, 
and  their  neighbors  as  themselves? 

We  have  too  often  failed  to  give  ourselves  to  the  word  of  the 
Lord.  We  have  run  after  wealth,  praise,  and  honor,  and  thought 
that  Christ  may  be  found  by  seeking  eminence  and  power.  This  is 
not  so.  Many  of  us  will  have  to  learn  that  it  is  not  the  outward  and 
physical,  but  by  the  inward  and  physical  that  men  become  true 
men.  Did  not  the  Master  say:  "Whosoever  will  save  his  life  shall 
lose  it.  .  .  .  "  He  taught  that  the  majesty  and  sanctity  of  living  is 
for  the  invisible:  that  is  to  say  for  honor,  truth,  fidelity,  and  the 
kingdom  of  righteousness. 


84  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Day 

There  were  honored  names  that  took  part  in  the  great  religious 
changes  that  came  into  the  world  in  the  sixteenth  century.  The 
daring  and  forceful  methods  of  John  Calvin,  Martin  Luther,  Mel- 
anchthon,  Zwingli,  and  John  Knox,  and  many  others  left  their  re- 
sults upon  the  world.  We  do  not  doubt  their  integrity  to  what  they 
considered  the  fundamental  doctrines  of  Jesus  Christ,  but  sin  and 
disaster  have  been  growing  to  the  present  day.  There  are  in  this 
country  two  hundred  and  fifty  different  religious  creeds  with  a 
total  membership  of  some  eighty  million  souls.  The  burning  ques- 
tion of  the  hour  is:  Where  is  the  simple  and  pure  religion  of  Jesus 
Christ  as  taught  by  the  Master  two  thousand  years  ago?  The  Bible 
has  suffered  at  the  hands  of  those  whom  it  sought  to  help.  Men 
have  failed  to  read  its  teachings  through  to  the  end  with  an  intelli- 
gent thoroughness.  They  have  made  selections  according  to  their 
human  knowledge  "and  have  missed  its  spirit  and  the  trend  of  its 
instruction,  and  the  glorious  uplift  of  its  truths." 

Christian  Belief  of  the  Future 

What  will  be  the  characteristics  of  a  religion  of  Jesus  Christ 
as  humanity  returns  to  the  old  way — the  way  of  Christ  our  Savior? 
The  followers  will  hold  to  the  power  of  the  priesthood  of  God,  to 
authority,  and  liberty,  to  the  doctrine  of  individual  salvation,  the 
spirit  of  truth  that  binds  people  into  a  Christian  society.  The  unity 
of  the  Church  of  the  living  God  will  be  envisaged  by  a  society,  for 
which  Christendom  waits.  It  will  be  the  religion  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  not  a  religion  about  Jesus  Christ.  Thus  we  come  to  the  su- 
preme test  of  religion — revelation.  This  was  the  fundamental  teach- 
ing of  the  prophets  of  the  Old  Testament.  Isaiah  in  richness  of 
spiritual  expression  wrote  ages  ago: 

The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  God  is  upon  me;  because  the  Lord  hath  anointed 
me  to  preach  good  tidings  unto  the  meek;  he  hath  sent  me  to  bind  up  the 
broken  hearted,  to  proclaim  liberty  to  the  captives,  and  the  opening  up  of 
the  prison  to  them  that  are  bound.  •  To  appoint  unto  them  that  mourn  in 
Zion,  to  give  unto  them  beauty  for  ashes,  the  oil  of  joy  for  mourning, 
the  garment  of  praise  for  the  spirit  of  heaviness;  that  they  might  be  called 
trees  of  righteousness,  the  planting  of  the  Lord,  that  he  might  be  glori- 
fied. (Isaiah  61:1-3.) 

Our  Savior  came  to  save.  He  sought  out  the  lost  souls  who  had 
wandered  far  away.  Sin  was  in  the  world  then  as  it  is  today.  He 
came  to  redeem  the  lost  by  the  principle  of  repentance  and  holy 
baptism  by  one  who  has  the  power  of  God.  If  the  Christian  world 
has  forgotten  this,  then  it  has  lost  its  divine  power.  "All  great 
truths,"  it  has  been  said,  "are  simple  truths."  If  the  followers  of 
Jesus  will  begin  to  teach  the  ways  of  the  gospel  of  Christ  in  that 
humility  which  comes  of  the  genuinely  pure  heart  and  the  high  re- 
gard for  the  intellect,  then  the  divinity  of  the  gospel  will  take  new 
root  in  the  souls  of  men.  It  will  be  Christianity  again. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG  85 


A  Message  Given  Through  the  Restoration  of  the  Gospel 

A  new  message  of  the  Redeemer  is  in  the  world  today.  It  says 
in  part: 

We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
and  in  the  Holy  Ghost. 

We  believe  that  men  will  be  punished  for  their  own  sins,  and  not  for 
Adam's  transgression. 

We  believe  that  through  the  atonement  of  Christ,  all  mankind  may 
be  saved,  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel. 

We  believe  that  the  first  principles  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  are: 
first,  Faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  second,  Repentance;  third,  Baptism 
by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins;  fourth,  Laying  on  of  hands  for  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

We  believe  that  a  man  must  be  called  of  God,  by  prophecy,  and  by  the 
laying  on  of  hands,  by  those  who  are  in  authority  to  preach  the  Gospel 
and  administer  in  the  ordinances  thereof. 

We  believe  in  the  same  organization  that  existed  in  the  primitive 
Church,  viz.,  apostles,  prophets,  pastors,  teachers,  evangelists,  etc. 

*    *  * 

We  believe  in  being  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in 
doing  good  to  all  men;  indeed,  we  may  say  that  we  follow  the  admonition 
of  Paul — We  believe  all  things,  we  hope  all  things,  we  have  endured  many 
things,  and  hope  to  be  able  to  endure  all  things.  If  there  is  anything  virtu- 
ous, lovely,  or  of  good  report  or  praiseworthy,  we  seek  after  these  things. 
(The  Articles  of  Faith.) 

This  message  is  purifying  and  refining.  It  will  correct  the 
abuses  of  human  society;  the  abuses  that  obstruct  the  pathway  of 
God's  work.  It  is  revelatory,  "fulfilling  the  largest  meaning  and 
possibility  of  revelation."  And  furthermore,  we  have  a  truth: 
"Whatsoever  principles  of  knowledge  we  attain  unto  in  this  life 
will  rise  with  us  in  the  resurrection."  This  provides  a  scope  of  un- 
limited progress,  and  makes  due  place  for  all  the  human  instincts 
that  constitute  the  spiritual  nature  of  man.  It  limits  man  to  his 
highest  possibilities.  This  new  message  meets  the  supreme  test  of 
religion — revelation.  For  in  him  is  the  supreme  Sonship:  "The 
glory  of  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father,  full  of  grace  and  truth." 
What  we  have  this  day  has  redeemed  you  and  me  far  more  than 
we  have  realized.  Our  world  must  got  forth  with  the  teaching  that 
God  does  live,  and  we  freely  give  that  which  we  have  freely  re- 
ceived. We  will  become  a  power  through  our  idealism  and  faith. 
All  of  this,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  meant  when  he  declared  in 
words  as  revealed  from  God: 

Ye  must  grow  in  grace  and  in  the  knowledge  of  the  truth.  (Doc.  and 
Cov.  50:40.) 

May  we  all  abide  more  and  more  each  day  by  the  laws  and 
commandments  of  God.  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


Elder  Alvin  Keddington  sang  a  vocal  solo,  "The  Seer." 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  7  Second  Day 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  I  use  this  salutation  ad- 
visedly, for  I  realize  that  I  am  not  only  addressing  a  large  congre- 
gation of  men  holding  the  priesthood,  and  officers  of  leadership 
in  the  Church,  but  another  group,  possibly  larger  than  this,  that 
is  on  the  outside  listening  in,  made  up  of  faithful  men  and  women 
of  the  Church,  and  possibly  some  who  are  not  members  of  the 
Church.   I  salute  them,  and  you,  my  brethren,  as  my  friends. 

True  Friendliness 

I  have  a  friendly  feeling  toward  all  those  who  hear  my  voice, 
and  toward  all  mankind.  I  hope  that  feeling  is  reciprocated.  I 
would  like  to  do  something  for  my  friends,  but  what  can  I  do? 
I  remember  the  Apostle  Peter  on  one  occasion  when  there  was  an 
afflicted  person  pleading  for  aid,  said,  "Money  I  have  not,  but 
such  as  I  have,  I  give  freely  unto  you.  Be  ye  healed."  And  he 
was  healed. 

Money  I  have  not  to  give  to  my  friends  who  are  so  numer- 
ous, but  as  a  witness  for  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  I  would  point  the 
way  to  those  who  have  not  understood  the  way  of  life  and  salva- 
tion— the  way  into  that  narrow  path  that  leads  to  that  goal.  And 
to  those  who  have  entered  the  path  I  would  counsel  them  to 
neither  deviate  to  the  right  nor  to  the  left,  but  to  pursue  a  straight- 
forward course,  that  when  they  reach  the  end  of  the  trail  they 
will  not  be  disappointed  with  their  life's  work. 

Quoting  from  Whittier's  "Maud  Muller": 

Of  all  sad  words  of  tongue  or  pen,  the  saddest  are  these:  It  might  have  been. 

The  Requirements  of  the  Gospel 

I  desire  to  add  my  testimony  to  the  testimonies  of  my  brethren  of 
this  conference,  for  I  have  a  testimony  abiding  in  my  soul,  and  I  know 
without  any  question  that  the  work  in  which  we  Latter-day  Saints 
are  engaged  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  unto  all  those  who  accept 
it  and  live  according  to  its  precepts.  It  is  the  same  as  that  which 
was  instituted  in  the  councils  of  heaven  before  the  world  was. 
It  is  not  a  new  gospel,  but  the  old  one  restored. 

It  is  the  same  as  Christ  our  Lord  taught  and  lived,  and  by 
living  it  made  him  what  he  was  in  life  and  what  he  is  after  life, 
enthroned  in  glory  at  the  right  hand  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  It 
is  intended  to  make  us  like  him  and  to  save  us  with  him,  and  it 
will  do  so  if  we  follow  in  his  footsteps,  and  walk  in  the  light  as 
he  is  in  the  light,  loving  the  Lord  and  keeping  his  commandments, 
cmd  this  I  admonish  all  my  hearers  and  myself,  that  it  will  be  the 
efforts  of  our  lives  so  to  do. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  87 


It  involves  the  accepting  and  receiving  of  certain  principles 
and  ordinances,  the  keeping  of  certain  commandments,  the  obey- 
ing of  the  laws  of  God,  performing  acts  of  service  to  our  Father 
in  heaven,  and  to  his  children  here  on  the  earth,  the  making  of 
sacrifices,  the  forming  of  family  relations,  ties  that  are  to  exist 
throughout  the  eternities,  to  live  and  serve  the  Lord  by  faith  and 
not  by  sight,  putting  our  trust  in  him,  living  by  every  word  that 
proceedeth  forth  from  his  mouth. 

There  is  reward  ample,  that  of  forgiveness  of  sin,  a  wonder- 
ful blessing  innate  in  the  gospel  of  Christ;  the  companionship  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  the  resurrection  with  the  just,  and  eternal  life 
and  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  and  presence  of  God  the  Eternal 
Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ. 
.  The  Savior  said  to  his  disciples: 

In  my  Father's  house  are  many  mansions:  ...  I  go  to  prepare  a  place 
for  you  .  .  .  that  where  I  am,  there  ye  may  be  also.  (John  14:2,  3.) 

That  would  be  a  good  enough  place  for  you  or  for  me. 

It  is  written:  "...  Eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard,  neither 
have  entered  into  the  heart  of  man,  the  things  which  God  hath 
prepared  for  them  that  love  him."  (I  Cor.  2:9.)  And  it  is  also 
written  that  if  we  love  the  Lord  we  will  do  his  work  and  his  will 
and  that  will  make  for  our  satisfaction.  There  is  satisfaction  in 
having  been  right,  and  disappointment  in  having  been  wrong  on 
any  question  which  we  may  have  considered;  especially  is  that  true 
where  others  have  considered  the  same  qustion  and  their  views  and 
ours  differ.  The  more  important  the  question  under  consideration, 
the  greater  the  satisfaction  if  right,  and  the  greater  the  disap- 
pointment if  wrong. 

Testimony  of  the  Truth  Comes  Through  Revelation 

The  most  important  question  that  has  ever  engaged  the  at- 
tention of  man  is  that  of  religion,  or  salvation;  of  what  it  con- 
sists, and  how  it  may  be  attained.  There  is  no  other  question  that 
has  received  the  attention  of  so  many  people,  and  on  no  other 
question  has  there  been  such  a  diversity  of  opinion.  Hence,  the 
many  religious  organizations  upon  the  earth  today. 

The  time  is  to  come  when  every  knee  is  to  bow  and  every 
tongue  confess  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  Then,  if  not  before, 
as  sure  as  there  is  a  God  in  heaven  and  life  beyond  the  veil — 
and  there  is  nothing  surer — then  men  will  know,  all  men  will  know 
the  truth  pertaining  to  religion  and  salvation. 

But  it  is  not  necessary  that  we  wait  until  that  time,  for  to 
know  the  truth  pertaining  to  salvation  the  Lord  has  given  us  the 
key  to  this  knowledge,  when  he  said: 

. .  .  My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his  that  sent  me.  If  any  man  will  do 
his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether 
I  speak  of  myself.  (John  7:16,  17.) 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7 


Second  Day 


How  would  we  know?  By  the  revelations  of  God  through 
the  Holy  Ghost.  The  same  as  Peter  received  the  light  and  knowl- 
edge. When  Christ  our  Savior  asked  his  disciples:  "Whom  say 
ye  that  I  am?"  Peter  answered:  "Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son 
of  the  living  God."  Jesus  said  unto  him: 

. .  .  Blessed  art  thou,  Simon  Bar-jona;  for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  re- 
vealed it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven.  (Matt.  16:17.) 

It  was  revealed  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
It  is  written: 

.  .  .  No  prophecy  of  the  scripture  is  of  any  private  interpretation.  For 
the  prophecy  came  not  in  old  times  by  the  will  of  man:  but  holy  men  of 
God  spake  as  they  were  moved  by  the  Holy  Ghost.  (II  Peter  1:20,  21.) 

There  is  the  secret — holy  men  of  God,  enjoying  the  Holy  Ghost, 
under  its  influence,  gave  to  us  the  scriptures,  ancient  and  modern, 
and  it  is  a  commandment  of  the  Lord  that  we  search  the  scriptures, 
for  in  them  they  "testify  of  me." 

The  people  of  the  world  of  mankind  today  have  not  that 
Holy  Ghost  that  was  enjoyed  by  those  holy  men  of  God  who 
gave  us  the  scriptures.  If  they  had  the  Holy  Ghost,  in  the  same 
degree  of  power  that  was  had  by  those  holy  men  who  gave  us 
the  scriptures,  then  they  would  understand  the  scriptures  just  as 
did  those  men  who  gave  the  scriptures  to  us. 

The  Power  of  the  Holy  Ghost 

We  are  not  only  to  receive  the  Holy  Ghost,  being  born  again, 
the  way  the  Lord  has  designed  that  it  should  be  and  has  been  in 
the  days  of  the  primitive  Church,  but  we  are  to  live  and  labor 
so  as  to  have  the  constant  companionship  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and 
he  will  not  dwell  in  unholy  tabernacles. 

The  scriptures  tell  us  no  man  can  say  that  Jesus  is  the  Lord 
but  by  the  Holy  Ghost.  And  what  man  knoweth  the  things  of 
man  save  by  the  spirit  of  man  which  is  in  him;  even  so  the  things 
of  God  knoweth  no  man  but  by  the  spirit  of  God. 

"And  the  natural  man  receiveth  not  the  things  of  the  Spirit 
of  God,  for  they  are  foolishness  unto  him,  neither  can  he  know 
them  because  they  are  spiritually  discerned." 

There  is  a  difference  between  the  natural  man  and  those  who 
understand  the  things  of  the  Spirit  of  God.  One  has  been  born 
again  and  the  other  has  not.  The  rich  man,  Nicodemus,  who  came 
to  Jesus  by  night  professing  belief  in  him,  saying  that  he  knew 
he  must  be  a  teacher  sent  of  God  for  no  man  could  do  the  work 
that  he  did,  except  God  be  with  him,  received  this  reply: 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  except  a  man  be  born  again,  he  cannot 
see  the  kingdom  of  God.  (John  3:3.) 

Nicodemus  not  understanding  how  it  would  be  possible  for 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


89 


a  man  to  be  born  again,  the  Savior  replied:  "...  Verily,  I  say 
unto  thee,  except  a  man  be  born  of  water  and  of  the  Spirit,  he 
cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God."  (John  3:5.)  That  is  the 
explanation  of  being  born  again.  We  hear  it  on  the  day  of  Pente- 
cost, when  the  assembled  multitude  of  different  nationalities  in 
their  own  tongues  heard  from  the  mouths  of  the  disciples  of  Christ, 
under  the  power  and  influence  of  the  Holy  Ghost  which  was  mani- 
fest there  in  a  remarkable  degree,  that  he  who  had  been  crucified 
was  indeed  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  and  being  converted 
and  convinced,  and  having  faith,  they  cried  out,  "Men  and 
brethren,  what  shall  we  do?" 

Peter  answered  them,  "...  Repent,  and  be  baptized,  every 
one  of  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  the  remission  of  sins, 
and  ye  shall  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost."  (Acts  2:38.) 
There  is  no  other  way  prescribed  by  the  Lord  of  heaven  by  which 
we  may  have  the  Holy  Ghost,  by  which  the  scriptures  have  been 
given,  by  which  they  can  be  interpreted  and  understood. 

The  Need  for  A  Teacher 

So  these  people  who  have  not  taken  the  course — and  they  are 
numbered  by  the  thousands — I  suppose  hundreds  of  thousands  who 
have  never  heard  of  the  gospel — since  they  have  not  received  the 
Holy  Ghost  in  the  way  the  Lord  has  appointed,  they  need  a 
teacher.  We  have  a  splendid  example  of  that  where  an  angel  of 
the  Lord  appeared  to  Philip,  and  told  him  to  go  down  south  to 
the  way  leading  from  Jerusalem,  to  meet  a  certain  Ethiopian  who 
had  been  up  to  Jerusalem  to  worship  and  was  returning  to  his 
home  in  Gaza,  Ethiopia.  Philip  did  as  he  was  required,  and  as 
this  man  came  along  in  his  chariot — for  he  was  a  wealthy  man, 
a  man  of  high  repute,  the  treasurer  to  the  queen's  treasury  in 
Ethiopia — he  had  the  Bible  open  upon  his  knees  to  the  53rd 
chapter  of  Isaiah,  and  Philip  hailed  him  and  asked  him  if  he  under- 
stood what  he  was  reading.  "How  can  I,"  said  he,  "except  some 
man  shall  guide  me?"  He  invited  Philip  into  the  chariot,  and  he 
sat  beside  the  Ethiopian  and  taught  him  the  gospel.  When  they 
came  to  a  place  that  had  plenty  of  water,  he  said:  "Here  is  water. 
Why  should  not  I  be  baptized?" 

Philip  said:  "If  thou  believest  with  all  thy  heart,  thou  may- 
est."  He  professed  belief  in  Jesus  Christ,  and  Philip  and  he  went 
down  into  the  water,  and  he  was  baptized  by  Philip.  When  they 
came  up  out  of  the  water.  Philip  was  caught  away  by  the  Spirit 
of  God. 

A  teacher  is  needed. 

I  refer  you,  my  friends,  to  the  case  of  Saul  of  Tarsus.  Jesus 
Christ  had  to  take  him  in  hand.  And  Saul,  after  he  .became  an 
apostle  of  the  Lord,  declared  that  what  he  did  in  persecuting  the 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Day 


Church,  he  did  conscientiously,  thinking  that  he  was  doing  God 
service. 

It  takes  something  more,  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends, 
than  education  and  learning  to  comprehend  and  understand  the 
things  of  the  Spirit  of  God  and  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

A  Sincere  Testimony 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  in  all  sincerity.  I  know  that  this 
work  is  true.  I  know  that  God  lives,  a  glorified  and  exalted  per- 
sonage, having  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones  and  spirit  as  tangible  as 
man's,  all-powerful  in  heaven  and  in  earth;  the  earth  is  the  Lord's 
and  the  fulness  thereof.  He  is  the  Eternal  Father  of  all  men. 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  First-born  in  the  spirit  and  the  Only  Begotten 
of  the  Father  in  the  flesh;  he  is  the  only  name  under  heaven  by 
which  mankind  may  be  saved.  No  man  can  be  saved  in  the  king- 
dom of  God  without  believing  on  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  and 
in  the  efficacy  of  his  atonement. 

By  the  same  token  I  know  t  hat  Joseph  Smith  is  a  mighty 
prophet  of  God.  raised  up  in  these  last  days,  and  through  him 
the  Father  and  the  Son  have  revealed  themselves  anew  to  the 
world  of  men,  and  Joseph  Smith  was  succeeded  by  Brigham  Young, 
and  each  of  the  presidents  of  this  great  Church  of  Christ,  in  his 
day  and  time,  has  been  inspired  and  led  by  the  Lord,  supported 
by  faithful  men,  the  general  authorities  of  the  Church,  and  faith- 
ful Latter-day  Saints,  and  this  work  has  grown  and  prospered  and 
will  continue  to  do  so  until  the  Son  of  Man  shall  come  to  take 
his  kingdom  and  reign  upon  the  earth  as  King  of  kings  and  Lord 
of  lords. 

I  bear  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  this  testi- 
mony in  the  authority  of  the  holy  priesthood  as  a  witness  for  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  in  his  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  need  your  sustaining  help,  my  brethren,  and  that  of  my 
Father  in  heaven,  whenever  I  stand  before  you. 

Accomplishments  of  Joseph  Smith 

Since  we  met  here  at  general  conference  six  months  ago,  we 
have  observed  the  anniversary  of  an  event  of  great  importance  to 
this  Church  and  people  —  the  one  hundreth  anniversary  of  the 
martyrdom  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  During  the  last  few 
months  I  have  been  reading,  and  am  still  reading,  all  that  I  can  find 
pertaining  to  Joseph  Smith,  both  that  which  he  himself  has  spoken 
or  written  jand  that  which  has  been  spoken  or  written  concerning 
him. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


91 


I  find  that  by  all  the  standards  by  which  any  of  the  prophets 
of  all  times  may  be  judged  or  accredited,  Joseph  Smith  stands  with 
the  greatest  of  them,  and  conforms  in  all  things  to  the  accepted  def- 
initions of  a  prophet.  So  profound  were  his  utterances,  so  compre- 
hensive the  pattern  of  truth  revealed  through  him,  that  whenever  I 
think  of  him,  unless  I  bring  myself  up  short,  I  am  inclined  to  think 
of  him  as  among  those  men  who  lived  long  in  years — among  the  sages 
and  the  seers  who  attained  old  age. 

Considering  the  accomplishments  of  his  life,  I  find  it  almost 
incredible,  and  must  remind  myself  of  it  frequently,  that  he  gave 
his  life  for  the  cause  of  truth  at  almost  the  exact  age  at  which  I 
stand  before  you  here  today,  to  the  very  year,  and  almost  to  the 
very  month.  The  shortness  of  his  years  does  not  comport  with  the 
breadth  and  depth  of  his  teachings. 

Notwithstanding  his  youth,  he  invaded  virtually  every  field  of 
thought  and  human  activity,  in  the  physical  sciences,  in  economics, 
in  sociology;  and  in  religion  and  things  of  the  spirit;  he  uttered 
things  which  were  beyond  the  common  knowledge  and  practice  of 
his  day,  and  which  in  many  instances,  are  still  beyond  the  common 
knowledge  of  our  day. 

Evidence  of  Revelation  in  the  Teachings  of  the  Prophet 

If  we  had  no  other  standard  by  which  to  convince  ourselves 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  standing  among  the 
greatest  of  all  time  (in  addition  to>  the  assurance  which  comes  to 
us  by  the  spirit  of  testimony)  we  need  but  compare  his  teachings 
with  the  current  teachings  of  his  time,  and  to  compare  his  teach- 
ings with  the  current  teachings  of  our  time,  by  which  comparison 
we  will  inevitably  reach  the  conclusion  that  the  thought  and  belief 
and  knowledge  of  the  world  have  moved  steadily  toward  the  ut- 
terances of  Joseph  Smith. 

These  things  he  could  not  have  known  for  himself.  There  is 
only  one  way  in  which  he  could  have  known  them,  and  that  is  by 
revelation  from  God,  our  Father  in  heaven,  which  is  how  he  did 
know  them.  The  world  has  always  been  slow  to  forgive,  and  to 
accept,  those  to  whom  it  has  been  given  to  see  beyond  their  time, 
and  Joseph  Smith  is  no  exception  to  that  rule;  but  whether  or  not 
they  accept  him  in  name,  they  are  moving,  and  have  moved,  to- 
ward his  teachings,  of  which  there  is  ample  evidence. 

Through  him  there  was  revealed  a  plan  of  life,  in  truth  so  ob- 
vious that  all  who  desire  to  see  and  understand  may  do  so — -obvious 
in  all  things  that  pertain  to  our  essential  welfare,  here  and  here- 
after. But  beyond  the  simple  and  essential  things,  we  find  our- 
selves at  times  delving  for  the  mysteries,  which  is  not  in  itself  a 
thing  to  be  condemned,  until  it  results  in  the  inordinate  consump- 
tion of  time,  and  leads  to  heated  argument  and  the  obsession  of 
speculation  upon  things  which  no  man  does  know  or  can  know. 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7 


Second  Dag 


A  Warning  Regarding  Seeking  After  Mysteries 

On  this  subject  I  give  you  one  of  the  utterances  of  Joseph 
Smith,  and  a  statement  following  it,  by  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve, 
who  were  associated  with  him  in  his  day.  First  let  me  quote  from 
the  Prophet: 

A  fanciful  and  flowery  and  heated  imagination  beware  of;  because  the 
things  of  God  are  of  deep  import;  and  time,  and  experience,  and  careful 
and  .  .  .  solemn  thoughts  can  only  find  them  out.  .  .  .  None  but  fools  will 
trifle  with  the  souls  of  men. 

How  vain  and  trifling  have  been  our  spirits,  .  .  .  our  private  as  well 
as  public  conversations.  (D.H.C.  Vol.  3,  pp.  295-6.) 

From  another  statement,  written  in  1839,  from  an  Epistle  of 
the  Twelve  to  the  Church,  I  take  excerpt,  on  this  same  line  of 
thought: 

Study  the  word  of  God,  and  preach  it  and  not  your  own  opinions.  .  .  . 
Leave  the  further  mysteries  of  the  kingdom  till  God  shall  tell  you  to  preach 
them,  which  is  not  now.  The  horns  of  the  beast,  the  toes  of  the  image,  .  .  . 
are  not  going  to  save  this  generation;  for  if  a  man  does  not  become  ac- 
quainted with  the  first  principles  of  the  Gospel,  how  shall  he  understand 
those  greater  mysteries,  which  the  most  wise  cannot  understand  without 
revelation?  .  .  .  (D.H.C.  Vol.  3,  pp.  395-6.) 

A  word  of  restraining  counsel  to  our  quorums,  and  to  us  as 
individuals,  whenever  we  are  tempted  to  become  heated  in  specula- 
tion about  things  which  we  do  not  and  cannot  know,  except  by  rev- 
elation: "Study  the  word  of  God,  and  preach  it,  and  not  your 
opinions." 

I  have  known  of  intimate  friends  becoming  heated  in  argu- 
ment and  estranged  in  their  feelings — seriously  so — in  speculation 
about  things  which  no  man  does  know  or  can  know,  until  the  Lord 
sees  fit  to  give  us  further  light  on  some  subjects  of  controversy  and 
concerning  which  we  lack  completeness  of  knowledge. 

I  think  sometimes  we  are  seeking  mysteries  also  in  fields  other 
than  in  religion,  when  the  plain  and  obvious  truth  is  before  us,  and 
the  answers  are  there  to  be  had  without  probing  beyond  them.  I 
think  that  we  have  looked  for  economic  mysteries  at  times,  hoping 
that  there  will  be  found  some  other  answers  than  the  plain  and 
simple  answers,  which  involve  work  and  thrift  and  living  within 
our  means.  We  may  have  been  guilty  of  looking  for  a  good  many 
other  mysteries  in  other  fields  also — but  we  have,  in  fact,  as  a 
people,  and  the  world  has,  in  those  things  which  have  been  given 
to  them  and  to  us,  all  of  the  fundamentals  of  truth  which  are  es-. 
sential  to  man's  temporal  and  spiritual  salvation.  There  are  no  new 
answers,  my  brethren,  fundamentally  speaking,  and  those  who  are 
chasing  after  them  and  overlooking  truth  in  the  process,  are  doing 
themselves  and  all  men  great  injustice  and  hurt. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  93 


Wise  Counsel 

I  close  with  another  guide  to  conduct,  from  the  same  Epistle 
of  the  Twelve,  quoted  above,  of  1839,  written  by  the  associates  of 
and  under  the  immediate  influence  of,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith: 

...  Be  honest;  be  men  of  truth  and  integrity;  let  your  word  be  your 
bond;  be  diligent,  be  prayerful;  pray  for  and  with  your  families;  train  up 
your  children  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord;  cultivate  a  meek,  a  quiet  spirit;  clothe 
the  naked,  feed  the  hungry,  help  the  destitute,  be  merciful  to  the  widow  and 
orphan,  be  merciful  to  your  brethren,  and  to  all  men;  bear  with  one  an- 
other's infirmities,  considering  your  own  weakness;  bring  no  railing  accusa- 
tions against  your  brethren,  especially  take  care  that  you  do  not  against 
the  authorities  or  Elders  of  the  Church,  for  that  principle  is  of  the  devil; 
he  is  called  the  accuser  of  the  brethren;  and  Michael,  the  archangel,  Hared 
not  bring  a  railing  accusation  against  the  devil,  but  said.  "The  Lord  rebuke 
thee,  Satan";  and  any  man  who  pursues  this  course  of  accusation  and  mur- 
muring will  fall  into  the  snare  of  the  devil,  and  apostatize,  except  he  repent. 
(D.H.C.,  Vol.  3,  pp.  394-5.) 

I  am  reminded,  in  closing,  of  an  excerpt  from  one  of  the  letters 
1  have  read  in  the  files  of  President  Grant  from  his  correspondence 
of  some  forty  or  fifty  years  ago,  when  he  was  away  at  one  time, 
and  one  of  his  brethren  wrote  to  him,  complaining  that  he  did  not 
know  what  his  mission  in  life  was,  but  he  wished  he  knew  what 
the  Lord  expected  of  him,  apparently  expecting  or  hoping  for 
some  special  manifestation  or  call.  President  Grant  wrote  him  in 
his  characteristic  frankness  and  directness,  and  said: 

My  dear  brother:  .  .  .  All  that  the  Lord  expects  of  you  or  of  me,  or 
of  any  other  man  is  for  us  to  do  our  full  duty  and  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God. 

I  leave  this  thought  with  you,  with  the  testimony  of  my  con- 
viction of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  his  divine  mission,  and 
the  divinity  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  of  the  truthfulness  of  this 
work,  and  in  its  inspired  leadership  of  this  day.  I  do  it  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  thiiik  nobody  could  stand  here  and  look  over  an  audience 
like  this  and  fail  to  be  impressed  with  the  importance  of  this  oc- 
casion. Men  who  come  here  from  all  over  the  United  States  to 
be  here  in  general  conference  for  three  days,  paying  the  expense 
incurred,  and  sitting  in  meetings  day  after  day  to  be  instructed  by 
other  men,  are  certainly  in  earnest.  Yet,  this  has  been  the  custom 
of  this  Church  from  the  beginning. 

The  purpose  of  our  being  together  is  that  we  may  think  seri- 
ously, and  wait  upon  the  Lord.  We  are  living  eternal  life,  and 
here  in  mortality  is  the  opportunity  that  God  has  given  to  us  to 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7 


Second  Day 


prepare  for  happiness.  I  sometimes  have  said  to  my  friends  when 
they  seemed  to  be  at  the  crossroads,  uncertain  as  to  which  way 
they  wanted  to  go,  "Today  is  the  beginning  of  eternal  happiness 
or  eternal  disappointment  for  you."  We  have  our  free  agency; 
the  Lord  will  not  take  it  away  from  us. 

Experiences  of  Joseph  Smith 

About  a  hundred  and  twenty-five  years  ago  a  boy  fourteen 
years  of  age,  named  Joseph  Smith,  lived  with  his  parents  near 
Manchester,  New  York.  He  was  taught  to  study  the  Bible.  In 
the  community  in  which  he  dwelt  when  he  was  fourteen  years  of 
age  they  were  holding  religious  revivals.  The  various  denom- 
inations were  inviting  those  who  came  to  the  meetings  to  join 
one  of  their  groups.  This  boy  was  a  little  uncertain  about  which 
group  he  should  join.  He  wanted  to  belong  to  the  one  that  would 
please  his  Heavenly  Father. 

He  had  read  in  the  Bible:  "If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask 
of  God  who  giveth  to  all  men  liberally  and  upbraideth  not,  and 
it  shall  be  given  him,"  and  with  that  in  his  mind,  he  decided  to 
put  it  to  the  test.  The  Lord  would  tell  him  which  church  he 
should  be  identified  with. 

He  went  out  into  the  woods  near  his  home  and  knelt  down 
to  pray.  His  own  statement  is  that  he  saw  the  Father  and  the 
Son,  and  in  answer  to  his  question  as  to  which  church  he  should 
join,  they  informed  him  that  not  any  of  them  was  pleasing  to  the 
Lord,  and  that  if  he  would  be  faithful  there  would  be  given  to 
him  a  great  opportunity  to  bring  new  light  into  the  world.  That 
was  the  beginning  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

Prior  to  that  the  people  did  not  believe  that  God  could  be 
seen;  they  did  not  believe  that  we  would  have  any  additional  in- 
formation. They  said  the  Bible  contained  all  that  the  Lord  had 
spoken  and  would  speak.  But  when  this  young  man,  not  yet  fifteen 
veers  of  age,  listened  to  the  voice  of  his  Heavenly  Father,  he 
knew  that  the  heavens  were  not  sealed  and  that  the  Lord  could 
speak  again;  and  soon  he  began  his  ministry.  During  the  period 
from  that  time  until  now,  the  representatives  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  have  traversed  many  parts  of 
the  world,  and  have  gone  with  kindness  and  love  in  their  hearts 
and  invitations  to  their  fellows  to-  accept  the  message  of  truth,  not 
to  give  up  any  good  thing  they  had  possessed,  but  to  adcT to  the  good 
things  that  they  did  have,  and  put  themselves  in  condition  to  know 
the  purpose  of  life. 

The  result  has  been  that  the  membership  of  this  Church  has 
continued  to  increase.  Driven  from  their  homes  repeatedly,  under 
the  guidance  of  a  prophet  of  God,  they  finally  settled  in  the  tops 
of  these  everlasting  hills,  and  from  that  time  until  now,  this  land, 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  95 


then  desolate  and  forbidding,  has  continued  to  produce,  until  today 
it  is  as  the  garden  of  the  Lord. 

The  Importance  of  Prayer 

When  the  pioneers  came  into  this  valley,  on  the  24th  of  July, 
1847,  this  was  a  wilderness.  Today  comfortable  homes,  houses 
of  religious  worship,  business  places,  all  these  things  have  come, 
built  from  the  grass-roots,  if  you  will,  by  a  people  who  came  with 
only  what  they  could  bring  in  their  wagons,  and  from  that  time 
until  now  they  have  believed  in  God  and  have  worshipped  him  in 
spirit  and  in  truth.  They  have  sent  more  than  60,000  of  their  own 
members  into  the  world  to  divide  with  our  Father's  other  children 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord. 

The  result  has  been  that  we  have  continued  to  be  happy;  we 
pass  through  the  experiences  of  mortality  like  other  people,  but 
we  have  had  an  anchor  that  has  made  our  lives  delightful,  and 
when  we  were  in  doubt,  like  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  when  he 
was  a  boy,  we  have  this  comfort:  If  we  will  go  to  the  Lord  in 
prayer,  he  will  give  us  comfort. 

Reference  has  been  made  in  this  conference  to  the  importance 
of  seeking  the  Lord  in  prayer.  And  we  should  know  that  our 
prayers  will  not  avail  us  much  unless  we  repent  of  our  sins.  Faith, 
repentence,  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins,  laying 
on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  are  the  fundamental 
teachings  of  our  Heavenly  Father  to  us,  and  have  been  the  ground- 
work of  the  Church  since  it  was  organized. 

Missionaries  in  the  Armed  Forces 

Reference  has  been  made  to  the  fact  that  we  are  engaged  in 
a  terrible  war.  We  are  involved  in  it,  far  though  we  are  from  the 
scenes  of  conflict.  But  there  are  two  wars  going  on,  one  a  war 
for  the  destruction  of  human  life  and  property,  the  other  for  the 
destruction  of  eternal  happiness.  The  latter  one  is  the  most  serious 
because  it  is  eternal. 

Today  we  have  comparatively  few  regularly  called  mission- 
aries in  the  world,  but  we  have  about  80,000  members  of  the 
Church  in  the  armed  services  of  our  nation.  If  they  have  been 
properly  taught  in  their  homes,  and  have  availed  themselves  of 
that  teaching  and  conformed  their  lives  to  the  inspiration  that 
should  come  therefrom,  all  of  them  are  missionaries.  Thus,  there 
are  today  in  the  world,  by  example,  if  not  by  precept,  80,000  mis- 
sionaries laboring  for  the  cause  of  the  Master,  demonstrating  by 
their  conduct  that  they  know  that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ. 

Many  of  them  may  not  return;  quite  a  number  of  them  have 
already  given  their  lives  in  order  that  liberty  of  conscience  and 
religion  may  remain  in  the  world,  but  they  have  faced  their  prob- 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Dag 


lems  believing  they  were  doing  their  duty  to  God  as  well  as  their 
country.  They  have  this  assurance  if  they  have  kept  the  com- 
mandments of  God,  that  they  are  living  eternal  life,  that  they  will 
be  resurrected"  from  the  dead,  and  that  they  will  again  have  the 
companionship  of  those  they  love  when  this  earth  shall  have  been 
cleansed  of  all  impurity  and  become  the  celestial  kingdom. 

Today  you  men  are  here  with  that  serious  thought  in  your 
minds,  and  as  you  read  the  papers — and  it  is  very  distressing  to 
read  the  papers — and  as  you  examine  the  public  magazines  that 
come  to  your  table,  you  see  that  not  only  is  the  world  at  war,  but 
it  is  drinking  in  the  filth  and  degradation  of  humanity  through  the 
printed  word,  and  through  the  information  that  is  scattered  broad- 
cast. I  was  thinking  today,  if  the  magazines  that  I  find  upon  the 
tables  of  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  popular  magazines  of  the 
day,  had  been  brought  into  my  mother's  home  when  I  was  a  child, 
I  would  have  been  denied  the  privilege  of  looking  at  the  pictures 
and  reading  the  stories.  There  is  so  much  in  them  that  is  debasing 
and  destructive  of  the  morals  of  humanity.  But  we  go  serenely 
along  and  our  children  are  exposed  to  those  things.  If  we  are 
properly  taught,  it  is  a  joy  to  have  in  our  homes  the  purity  of 
virtue,  the  sweetness  of  righteousness. 

A  Conversation  With  A  Catholic  Bishop 

A  number  of  years  ago  I  was  riding  on  a  train  with  one  of 
our  prominent  Catholic  bishops  —  a  very  fine  character  —  and  as 
we  visited  and  compared  notes,  he  made  some  expressions  with 
reference  to  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  their  high 
standard  of  morality,  and  intimated  he  would  like  to  know  why 
it  was  that  we  were  able  to  maintain  such  a  desirable  condition. 

I  confided  in  him  and  said:  "From  my  mother's  knee  I  have 
been  taught  that  this  body  of  mine  should  be  kept  sacred,  as  the 
tabernacle  of  an  immortal  spirit.  I  was  taught  when  I  was  a  child 
that  to  be  clean  in  my  living  was  most  important.  In  fact,"  I  said, 
"upon  one  occasion  my  father  called  me  to  him  when  I  was  just  a 
young  man,  and  he  said,  'My  son,  I  have  something  I  want  to 
say  to  you.'"  And  I  said  to  the  bishop:  "I  loved  my  father;  I 
almost  worshipped  him,  and  anything  that  he  said  to  me  sank  deep 
into  my  soul.  He  said,  'My  son,  there  are  reports  of  evil  in  the 
community;  bad  men  and  bad  women  are  coming  in  from  different 
parts  of  the  country,  one  or  two  at  a  time.  I  hope  that  you  will 
avoid  them,  but  if  by  any  chance  any  wicked  man  were  to  enter 
into  our  home  and  attempt  to  take  the  virtue  of  your  mother  or 
your  sister  I  want  you  to  know  from  your  father  that  I  would  ex- 
pect you  to  defend  that  virtue  with  your  life.  Then,'  he  said,  'that 
is  not  all.  I  lay  the  same  obligation  upon  you  with  reference  to 
every  other  man's  wife  and  daughter.'  " 

As  the  bishop  looked  at  me,  I  said:  "That  sank  into  my  soul, 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  97 


and  has  been  as  armor  to  me  as  I  have  traveled  through  the  world, 
and  it  has  been  a  joy  to  me  to  hold  up  to  our  Father's  other  child- 
ren that  standard  of  virtue:  not  only  shall  we  not  have  our  own 
despoiled,  but  we  should  see  to  it  that  no  other  man's  family  should 
be  despoiled." 

He  looked  at  me  and  said:  "I  thank  you  for  that  suggestion. 
I  have  never  heard  anything  just  like  that.  I  hope  you  will  have 
no  objection  if  I  repeat  it  as  I  go  among  my  people." 

It  is  regrettable  that  in  the  world  today  in  many  cases  men 
do  not  appreciate  that  this  temple  of  the  body  is  sacred  and  should 
be  so  held,  that  this  body  of  ours  was  given  to  us  as  a  tabernacle 
for  the  spirit  while  we  are  here  in  mortality,  but  that  the  spirit  that 
is  in  this  tabernacle  came  from  God.  He  is  the  Father  of  it.  If 
men  realized  that,  how  much  more  careful  they  would  be  to  pro- 
tect this  tabernacle  and  keep  it  wholesome  and  delightful. 

The  Need  for  Repentance 

Think  of  what  is  presented  to  us  in  the  world  today.  Not 
only  has  mankind  strayed  from  the  moral  teachings  of  our  Heav- 
enly Father,  for  we  were  told  here  today  that  among  the  armed 
forces,  those  who  are  facing  death,  a  large  percentage  of  them  are 
not  living  moral  lives.  I  am  happy  to  say  that  I  believe  that  in 
that  group  that  has  gone  out  from  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  there  are  thousands  who  will  return  home  just 
as  clean  as  they  went,  if  they  come  at  all,  and  if  they  do  not  come 
back  to  us  alive,  they  will  be  prepared  to  stand  in  the  presence  of 
their  Maker  and  give  an  account  for  the  time  they  spent  on  earth, 
and  explain  to  him  why  they  are  there  now,  because  they  offered 
their  mortal  lives  to  safeguard  their  fellows. 

Today  I  am  thinking  of  the  need  not  only  of  prayer,  not  only 
of  faith — the  world  is  teaching  that,  too — but  I  am  thinking  of 
the  need,  the  sublime  need,  if  I  may  use  that  term,  of  repentance 
from  the  things  of  the  world  and  the  turning  away  from  the  temp- 
tations that  afflict  mankind. 

We  are  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
because  we  desire  eternal  life  in  the  celestial  kingdom.  We  can- 
not have  that  kind  of  a  life  unless  we  keep  ourselves  clean.  It 
would  not  make  any  difference  who  the  man  is,  whose  son  he  is, 
or  what  family  be  belongs  to,  or  what  church  he  belongs  to,  if  he 
despoils  his  body  he  must  account  some  time  to  God  for  his  base 
life. 

So  we  who  have  had  a  proper  teaching  should  instill  in  the 
lives  of  our  families,  the  seriousness,  not  only  of  keeping  ourselves 
as  we  should  be,  but  if  we  should  make  a  mistake,  how  great  the 
need  of  repentance  before  it  is  too  late.  So  let  us  set  our  houses 
in  order.  When  we  write  to  our  loved  ones  who  are  in  the  army 
and  navy  and  air  service,  send  them  a  message  of  confidence.  Say 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  7 


Second  Day 


to  them:  "We  count  on  you,"  even  as  the  patrician  mother  who 
gave  a  shield  to  her  son  who  was  going  to  the  army,  and  said: 
"Come  home  with  it  or  upon  it."  So  we  might  say  to  these  boys, 
by  letter  if  we  have  not  already  trained  them,  "Come  home  in  purity, 
or  come  home  not  at  all." 

That  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ;  that  is  the  purpose  of  this 
conference.  The  reason  we  are  here  today  is  that  we  believe  sin- 
cerely that  we  are  ,the  sons  of  God  and  that  he  desires  that  we 
be  happy  forever,  and  the  life  that  is  to  make  us  happy  is  the  life 
that  conforms  to  the  teachings  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  our 
Lord.  Let  us  see  to  it  that  wherever  we  go  we  teach  by  precept 
the  gospel  of  repentance,  and  by  our  conduct  live  the  gospel  of 
repentance  and  faith  in  God;  and  in  prayer  let  us  go  to  him  and 
plead  for  power  to  resist  evil  and  to  cleave  to  that  which  is  right, 
that  in  the  end  we  may  have  the  companionship  of  those  we  love, 
throughout  the  ages  of  eternity,  and  that  right  here  upon  this 
earth,  when  it  shall  become  the  celestial  kingdom. 

That  is  why  we  are  here  today,  brethren.  That  is  the  bless- 
ing that  God  has  given  to  us  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ — it  is 
that  anchor  that  should  make  us  secure  against  all  evil,  if  we  will 
permit  it  so  to  do. 

A  Testimony 

In  conclusion  let  me  say,  knowing  that  I  stand  here  as  one  of 
the  older  ones  among  you,  I  leave  you  my  testimony.  This  is  not 
some  imaginary  thing  with  me;  I  know  that  God  lives;  I  know  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ;  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  the 
living  God,  as  I  know  that  I  stand  here  and  speak  to  you;  and 
with  that  knowledge  in  my  soul  I  plead  that  we  shall  go  forward 
with  faith  and  with  prayerfulness  and  with  hope  and  courage  to 
receive  at  the  hands  of  our  Heavenly  Father  a  glorious  welcome 
home  when  mortality  shall  cease  and  we  go  on  to  immortality.  I 
pray  that  it  may  be  so  for  us  and  for  all  that  we  love,  wherever  they 
.may  be. 

A  Plea  for  Those  Who  Need  Comfort 

One  word  more.  Let  us  remember  the  mothers  of  these  men 
who  are  in  the  missionary  field  and  in  the  armed  services  —  for 
they  are  both  the  same — let  us  remember  these  good  women,  and 
where  they  are  bereft  let  us  go  out  of  our  way  to  comfort  their 
hearts.  They  have  not  given  their  own  lives,  but  they  have  given 
that  which  is  dearer  than  life  itself,  and  we  owe  it  to  them,  after 
the  sacrifices  they  have  made  to  bear  children,  to  surround  them 
by  the  arms  of  our  love  and  let  them  feel  that  we  are  in  sympathy 
with  them,  and  grateful  that  they  are  able  to  go  on,  waiting  for 
the  gathering  of  the  family  when  it  shall  finally  come. 

God  bless  you,  and  peace  be  in  your  hearts  and  in  your  homes. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  OV  McKAY 


99 


throughout  our  great  land,  and  throughout  the  world  as  a  result 
cf  repentance  and  righteousness,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

After  singing  and  benediction  this  conference  will  be  ad- 
journed until  seven  o'clock  this  evening. 

The  services  tonight  will  not  be  broadcast. 

We  shall  meet  tomorrow  morning  at  10  o'clock  and  will  be 
favored  with  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  organ  broadcast  and  Church 
of  the  Air  service.  Will  you,  all  of  you,  try  to  be  in  your  seats 
no  later  that  9:50  a.m.  Admission  will  be  only  by  tickets. 

Please  join  in  singing,  "Praise  To  the  Man  Who  Communed 
With  Jehovah,"  number  20  in  your  Folder. 


The  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Praise  to  the 
Man." 

Elder  Nathan  T.  Hurst,  President  of  the  Reno  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  7  o'clock  p.m. 

SECOND  DAY 
EVENING  MEETING 

The  fifth  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle 
at  7  o'clock  p.m.,  with  President  David  O.  McKay  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency conducting  the  exercises. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  male  chorus  was  in  attendance  and  rend- 
ered choral  numbers  during  the  meeting. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

,     Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  is  the  fifth  session  of  the  115th  Semi-Annual  Confer- 
ence of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

President  Grant,  who  has  requested  that  I  conduct  the  exer- 
cises, is  listening  to  the  conference  on  a  direct  wire  from  the  taber- 
nacle to  his  home. 

Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  will  direct  the  music,  Elder  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  will  be  at  the  organ. 

The  congregation  will  please  join  in  singing,  "Do  What  Is 
Right,"  Song  Folder  number  2,  Hymn  Book  185.  You  may  remain 
seated. 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  7  Second  Day 


The  congregation  and  male  chorus  sang  the  hymn,  "Do  What 
Is  Right." 

President  William  A.  Pettit  of  the  Pasadena  Stake  offered  the 
invocation. 

Singing  by  the  congregation  and  Tabernacle  Choir  male  chorus, 
"How  Firm  a  Foundation"  (Song  Folder  No.  2,  L.D.S.  Hymn  Book 
No.  185). 

ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  never  appear  in  a  capacity  of  this  kind  but  what  I  am  almost 
overawed  with  the  challenging  responsibility  that  is  mine.  As  I 
hesitate  for  a  moment,  to  try  to  feel  the  inspiration  that  may  be 
mine,  with  your  faith  and  prayers,  I  am  at  this  moment  constrained 
to  do  something  different  from  what  I  have  prepared  if  I  had 
spoken  over  the  air,  and  I  shall  follow  that  inspiration.  i 

Advice  As  to  Care  of  the  Physical  Body 

As  I  have  traveled  up  and  down  the  Church,  I  have  been 
impressed  as  I  have  met  you  brethren,  many  of  you,  in  wards  and 
stakes,  under  the  stress  and  strain  of  a  year  that  has  perhaps  had 
no  comparison  in  our  history,  and  also  that  has  drawn  upon  us, 
and  our  energy,  like  no  other  year  in  our  life.  I  feel  in  my  heart 
tonight,  here  in  our  intimate  relationship  in  a  priesthood  meeting 
to  give  you  for  your  own  consideration  and  thinking  one  or  two 
things  that  have  been  helpful  to  me  in  my  life. 

I  feel  sure  they  have  a  spiritual  relationship;  they  have  a 
priesthood  relationship;  and  are  vital  to  our  success. 

I  want  to  suggest  to  you  one  or  two  daily  tasks.  They  have 
helped  me.  The  first  one:  Every  day,  if  we  are  going  to  fulfill 
our  responsibility  in  leadership  in  the  Church,  we  should  do  some- 
thing which  will  protect  and  build  our  bodies.  They  are  the  tab- 
eracles  of  the  spirit,  and  we  should  do  everything  we  can  to  keep 
them  clean  and  efficient. 

No  matter  on  what  age  level  we  are  living,  we  should  have 
annually,  a  physical  examination;  and  then,  under  the  advice  and 
counsel  of  medical  help,  take  up  some  simple  form  of  exercise, 
or  experience  in  the  open  where  we  can  keep  ourselves  fit. 

Too  many  of  the  brethren  that  I  see  as  I  visit  about  the 
Church  have  neglected  that  opportunity,  and  as  a  result,  not  only 
in  their  physical  life  and  enjoyment,  but  in  their  spiritual  obliga- 
tions they  are  not  doing  their  best. 

I  happened  to  have  the  opportunity  once  to  meet  one  of  the 
Mayo  brothers,  and  I  asked  him  a  question  about  the  relationship 
of  the  spirit  of  man  and  his  physical  body. 

He  said  to  me,  "I  don't  know  just  exactly  what  you  refer  to, 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 


101 


but,"  and  he  put  his  hand  up  before  me  and  said,  "I  have  often 
thought  about  where  life  begins  and  ends,  and  if  I  draw  a  knife 
it  is  hard  to  tell  where  the  spirit  begins  and  where  the  flesh  ends 
or  begins.   It  is  all  wrapped  up  together." 

I  can  testify  to  you  brethren,  myself,  that  because  of  a  bad 
stomach  I  have  said  unkind  words.  When  I  am  not  feeling  physi- 
cally fit,  I  have  not  been  at  my  best,  in  kindness  and  in  efficiency. 
So  I  appeal  to  you  tonight,  and  from  my  life  I  bear  testimony  that 
I  know  if  I  keep  at  it,  as  I  strive  to  do  every  day,  something  tol 
keep  myself  physically  fit,  I  am  helping  myself  so  that  I  can  give 
better  service,  and  I  am  also  more  susceptible  to  the  spirit  of  in- 
spiration and  help  from  on  high. 

I  know  you  can  cite,  and  maybe  you  have  in  mind  now,  some 
of  the  great  intellectual  geniuses,  some  of  the  great  spiritual  char- 
acters who  have  not  enjoyed  the  best  of  health.  But  with  the  re- 
sponsibility that  is  ours,  I  am  sure  that  we  can  be  more  efficient 
if  we  sincerely  care  for  ourselves,  every  day  in  some  way. 

Suggestions  Regarding  the  Scriptures 

Another  suggestion  I  make  to  you,  and  I  am  sure  it  will  help 
us,  is  that  every  day  we  take  one  of  our  standard  works  of  the 
Church,  or  the  work  of  some  good  commentator  or  gospel  principles, 
and  read  at  least  fifteen  to  thirty  minutes.  It  is  this  every  day 
that  counts,  forming  the  habit;  it  is  worth  more  than  two  hours' 
reading  at  some  one  time.  If  you  have  the  responsibility  of  leading 
a  quorum  or  some  other  definite  religious  instruction  work,  try 
this  method  of  preparation.  Read  the  text  through,  then  a  period 
of  meditation,  then  reading  again,  and  so  the  third  and  the  fourth 
and  the  fifth  reading  brings  fuller  understanding. 

We  must  go  beyond  the  first  impressions,  deep  into  the  heart 
of  the  text;  there  we  will  find  the  real  challenging  truth. 

I  am  reading  now  the  New  Testament,  and  I  am  practicing 
as  best  I  can  the  very  thing  that  I  am  trying  to  give  you,  and  I  am 
sure  it  will  be  helpful  to  you.  And  so  I  suggest  that  you  read, 
every  day  fifteen  to  thirty  minutes  on  some  gospel  theme.  Get 
the  habit,  it  will  help  you  wonderfully;  it  will  color  the  whole  day. 
Your  meditations  will  be  upon  the  glorious  things  of  our  Heavenly 
Father.  Then  when  the  hour  comes,  and  you  ask  for  the  inspir- 
ation of  God,  the  Holy  Ghost  will  quicken  your  memory,  and  the 
beautiful  things  from  your  reading  will  come  to  you  and  help 
and  bless  you. 

Daily  Kind  Acts  Part  of  the  Gospel 

Now,  out  of  my  years  of  experience  with  boy  life  I  make  the 
next  suggestion  to  you,  and  I  know  it  has  a  bearing  upon  our 
leadership  in  a  priesthood  capacity  and  other  Church  service. 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday  October  7  Second  Dag 


From  Baden-Powell  came  this  wonderful  suggestion  to  the 
Boy  Scouts,  and  he  gave  it  to  the  world.  It  has  resulted  in  more 
real  inspiration  for  service  to  mankind  than  almost  any  text  that 
I  know  of,  and  it  is  simply  this:    "Every  day  do  a  good  turn." 

Please  do  not  feel  that  I  am  referring  at  this  moment  now 
to  a  boy;  I  am  talking  to  a  man.  I  am  asking  that  every  day 
as  priesthood  leaders  this  spirit  of  service  go  forward  in  our  lives, 
that  we  might  feel  the  gospel  in  action,  doing  some  simple, 
kindly  act. 

A  young  man  was  picking  up  the  glass  of  a  broken  milk 
bottle  near  a  home  in  California.  He  was  a  member  of  one  of 
our  stake  missions.  A  woman  from  the  window  was  looking  at 
him.  The  moment  that  he  knocked  at  the  door  she  said,  "Come 
in.  I  do  not  know  what  you  have  to  sell,  but  come  in." 

The  young  stake  missionary  said:  "I  was  greatly  surprised 
at  this  invitation." 

In  a  moment,  however,  the  woman  enlightened  him  when  she 
said,  "I  saw  you  gathering  up  the  glass  at  the  gate.  You  are 
welcome  in  my  home."  A  gospel  conversation  was  soon  going 
forward. 

It  is  these  jsimply  kindly  acts  that  count.  A  child  or  someone 
in  your  own  home  may  be  in  need.  It  is  your  mother  who  is  away, 
and  you  write  that .  letter,  for  you  haven't  seen  her  for  years. 
Every  day  doing  that  good  act  somehow  expands  the  heart,  and 
we  feel  the  things  we  teach.  It  ,is  wrapped  up  in  the  life  that  is 
striving  to  practice  what  it  preaches,  a  radiation  that  men  feel.  So 
I  invite  you  in  the  future,  every  day,  to  do  some  kindly  act;  put 
religion  into  action. 

The  Strength  of  Prayer 

Finally,  I  suggest  to  you  every  day  to  pray  at  least  once — 
but  here  is  the  qualifying  clause — and  feel  the  prayer.  I  confess 
to  you  that  I  have  prayed  many,  many  times  and  when  I  got  into  bed, 
under  the  covers,  I  have  said:   "Well,  they  were  only  words." 

I  am  very  sincere  about  this,  because  through  the  kindness 
of  the  Lord  I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  when  out  of  my  soul 
I  have  asked  for  a  blessing,  I  have  felt  the  glory  and  the  strength 
of  prayer. 

My  brethren,  these  are  my  suggestions  to  you,  born  of  ex- 
perience, and  I  humbly  offer  them  to  you.  I  know  that  they  will 
prove  helpful. 

God  help  us  to  keep  the  tabernacles  of  our  spirit,  and  of  his 
Spirit,  clean  and  fit.  May  he  help  us  in  studying  his  word  daily, 
that  we  may  feed  our  souls.  May  we  practice  our  glorious  religion, 
and  feel  daily  the  joy  of  service. 

May  God  grant  to  us  the  daily  exercise  of  prayer,  the  yearn- 
ing of  a  soul  crying  for  help,  and  praising   God  for  his  many 


ELDER  MARVIN  O.  ASHTON  103 


blessings.  This  is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  MARVIN  O.  ASHTON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  know  of  no  one  whom  I  would  rather  follow  than  Oscar 
Kirkham.  I  remarked  to  Bishop  Wirthlin,  who  sat  next  to  me 
tonight,  as  soon  as  I  felt  a  little  relaxation  go  through  the  audience 
a  few  moments  ago,  "There  is  a  different  feeling  here  tonight. 
We  are  not  under  such  a  strain  when  we  are  not  'on  the  air.'  " 

Much  has  been  said  today  about  prayer,  including  the  last 
few  remarks  of  Brother  Kirkham's.  I  have  never  bragged  about 
how  much  praying  I  do,  but  if  there  is  any  time  I  do  pray,  and 
pray  fervently,  it  is  during  conference  time — and  you  know  why. 

I  thought  President  McKay  had  some  inspiration  when  he 
used  to  announce  the  speaker,  and  then  say  who  was  to  follow. 
As  far  as  I  am  concerned,  if  he  wanted  to  say  who  was  on  deck  as 
the  third  one  up,  I  would  say  he  had  still  more  inspiration.  I  do 
not  know  if  anybody  has  had  the  courage  to  tell  it  to  him,  but 
I  am  telling  it  to  him  right  now. 

A  Time  for  Fervent  Prayer 

As  one  looks  out  of  his  window  into  the  world  today,  he  sees 
things  to  criticize,  and  if  you  please,  persons  to  criticize  as  he  never 
did  before.  It  does  not  take  very  much  intelligence  to  tell  what 
is  the  matter  with  the  world,  here,  there,  and  everywhere.  Brother 
Kirkham  has  given  you  four  rules  of  good  procedure  in  life.  I  would 
like  to  give  you  two  which  I  am  sure  will  "dovetail"  into  his  sound 
advice.  First,  now  is  the  time  when  we  ought  to  say  our  prayers 
fervently;  second,  now  is  the  time  to  do  our  own  thinking/.  I  say 
that  with  as  much  fervor  as  I  know  how  to  say  it. 

Tonight  as  I  speak  I  would  like  to  feel  perfectly  free.  I  am 
going  to  speak  as  I  would  like  to  speak,  and  trust  that  I  will  be  un- 
derstood. It  will  be  a  kindness  of  you  who  are  here  if  you  will 
take  what  I  say  in  the  spirit  it  is  given.  I  trust  that  what  I  say 
will  be  tempered  with  good  judgment  so  that  I  will  not  be  em- 
barrassed, nor  embarrass  the  good  brethren  I  love. 

"Bowlegged"  Thinking 

Someone  who  has  been  championing  very  fervently  the  Word 
of  Wisdom — and  I  mean  championing  —  made  this  remark  the 
other  day.  I  shall  give  you  his  exact  words,  "I  wonder  if  it 
wouldn't  be  a  good  thing  now  for  us  to  let  up  a  little  on  the  Word 
of  Wisdom  and  preach  honesty." 

Now  don't  get  excited;  let's  stay  with  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
As  I  go  about  the  Church  from  stake  to  stake,  if  there  is  any- 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  7 


Second  Day 


thing  for  which  I  take  off  my  coat  and  for  which  I  unmercifully 
fight  it  is  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  I  won't  say  let  us  let  up  on  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  but  this  observation  relative  to  old-fashioned 
integrity  sticks  to  me! 

I  suppose  there  never  was  a  time  when  we  gave  more  thought 
to  our  diet.  We  want  it  to  be  balanced.  We  want  it  to  have 
the  right  calories.  I  suppose  it  is  very  important  that  our  diet  be 
well  balanced,  that  in  what  we  eat,  there  shall  be  the  different 
elements  to  take  care  of  the  different  needs  of  the  body,  for  en- 
ergy, heat,  ,and  tissue.  If  a  person  doesn't  get  a  proper  diet,  he 
may  die  of  partial  starvation  or  what  they  choose  to  call  it  these 
days  malnutrition.  A  person  may  stuff  himself  with  potatoes,  but 
if  this  were  his  only  diet,  he  would  soon  be  in  bad  shape. 

I  remember  in  Scotland  when  I  was  on  a  mission,  I  stood 
at  the  corner  one  day  and  saw  one  of  their  public  schools  let  out 
for  ,noon  recess.  I  saw  many  a  little  child  hobble  along  the  streets 
with  his  little  legs  so  bowed  that  a  good-sized  pig  could  run  straight 
through  without  touching  either  leg.  What  was  the  trouble?  Par- 
tial starvation.  Tea  and  cookies  and  cookies  and  tea!  Does  our 
thinking,  because  it  js  not  balanced  properly,  sometimes  suffer  in 
the  same  way?  In  plain  American  English — is  our  thinking  bowleg- 
ged?  Or  to  be  more  frank,  do  some  of  us  get  on  the  horse  of  tithing 
and  ride  it  to  death?  Do>  some  of  us  sit  astride  the  genealogy  steed 
and  ride  it  till  its  tongue  hangs  out?  Do  some  of  us  ride  the  welfare 
pony  until  it  is  covered  with  lather?  Do  some  of  us  think  of  noth- 
ing but  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  or  prayer,  and  forget  the  other 
things  necessary  to  make  a  real  citizen  and,  if  you  please,  a  real 
Latter-day  Saint?  Brigham  Young  said,  at  the  time  of  the  Indian 
wars,  "Brethren,  say  your  prayers,  but  keep  your  powder  dry!" 
Could  a  good-sized  pig  run  through  our  thinking  without  touching 
either  leg?  In  other  words,  do  we  "strain  at  gnats  and  swallow 
camels";   Do  we  think  bowlegged? 

If  there  is  anything  that  the  Lord  has  held  important  in  our 
lives,  it  is  ,that  we  be  honest.  Nothing  in  history  has  been  awarded 
much  greater  punishment  than  dishonesty.  To  illustrate:  The 
story  of  Ananias  and  Sapphira.  Things  were  held  in  common.  As 
a  member  of  the  Church  would  sell  his  property,  he  would  turn 
in  all  the  money  to  this  common  fund  or  storehouse.  Ananias  and 
Sapphira  connived  together  that  they  would  have  the  reputation 
of  giving  their  ,all  and  yet  would  have  the  pleasure  of  retaining 
some  of  the  money.  When  confronted  by  Peter,  Ananias,  as  he 
put  his  cash  on  the  counter,  represented  to  Peter  that  was  all. 
Well,  the  story  was  short.  As  a  reprimand  from  the  heavens,  they 
carried  him  out  a  dead  man.  An  hour  or  so  later,  Sapphira,  not 
knowing  what  happened,  did  as  good  a  job  of  lying  as  her  hus- 
band. She  was  carried  out  a  dead  woman.  Well,  this  was  quite 
a  lesson.  Now,  the  thinking  of  Ananias  and  Sapphira  wasn't  bal- 


ELDER  MARVIN  O.  ASHTON  105 


anced.  They  were  inconsistent.  In  other  words,  these  good  people 
were  thinking  bowlegged. 

Our  Attitude  Towards  the  Aged 

Probably  there  is  nothing  that  illustrates  what  I  am  trying 
to  emphasize  better  than  the  length  to  which  people  are  going 
these  days  to  get  on  the  relief  rolls.  Now,  I  know  I  am  treading 
on  dangerous  ground,  especially  if  I  get  into  the  realm  of  the 
old-age  pensions.  I  am  going  to  observe  very  carefully  pnd  watch 
every  step  I  make.  A  civilization  is  marked  by  its  attitude  toward 
the  aged.  May  it  never  be  said  of  me  that  I  wasn't  thoughtful 
of  the  old.  You  know,  after  all  we  are  all  going  to  be  old  some 
day  or  die  in  the  attempt! 

That  which  we  mete  out  to  the  old  may  sometime  be  meted 
out  to  us.  We  should  be  most  concerned  about  our  fathers  and 
mothers,  our  grandfathers  and  our  grandmothers.  I  often  think 
of  the  story  in  the  old  reader  of  the  grandfather  ,who  ate  in  a 
dark  corner  of  the  kitchen  by  himself  while  the  rest  of  the  family 
partook  of  the  better  food  at  a  well-spread  table.  The  young 
son  about  four  or  five  years  of  age  was  seen  whittling  away  on 
some  boards.  The  father  of  the  lad  was  inquisitive:  "Johnnie, 
what  are  you  doing?"  came  the  question.  The  answer  came 
quickly,  "Dad,  I  am  making  a  trough  for  you  so  when  I  get  to 
be  a  man,  it  will  be  all  ready!" 

;        Dishonesty  in  Pension  Matters 

When  our  legislature  passed  the  old-age  pension,  they 
wanted  to  be  kind  and  were  probably  justified  in  their  action,  but 
the  point  I  am  trying  to  emphasize  is  the  misrepresentation  that 
some  of  our  people  stoop  to,  even  those  over  sixty-five,  and  for 
that  matter,  before  they  are  sixty-five! — to  get  this  free  money. 
Some  of  them  are  downright  dishonest.  To  put  it  plainly,  they 
are  eligible  for  membership  in  the  "Ananias  and  Sapphira  Club." 
Let  me  illustrate  what  I  mean:  v 

Sometime  ago  in  an  investigation  we  found  seven  people  with 
father  sacred  Church  responsibilities,  with  compensation,  where 
they  were  getting  old-age  pensions  as  well  as  the  salary  men- 
tioned. They  were  hiding  the  facts  from  those  who  should  know. 
Sometime  ago  we  discovered  a  man  working  for  us  at  our  office 
getting  the  salary  from  us  and  an  old-age  pension  at  the  same  time, 
and  yet  that  brother,  I  am  sorry  to  say,  had  the  gall  to  go  to  his 
quorum  meeting  Sunday  mornings  pretending  to  be  a  Saint! 
Sometime  ago  in  visiting  one  of  the  stake  conferences,  I  found 
people  enjoying  old-age  pensions  who  had  turned  their  property 
over  to  their  son  or  sons  in  order  to  be  eligible  for  old-age  pen- 
sion, and  last  year  their  farm  produced  $10,000.00  worth  of  apples! 
I  ask  these  people,  whose  thinking,  I'm  sure,  is  suffering  from 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Dag 

malnutrition,  what  kind  of  God  in  heaven  do  they  think  they  are 

worshiping  who  could  look  down  and  smile  at  all  that?  Years  ago, 
as  a  boy,  I  remember  father  always  went  to  the  market  to  buy  his 
hay  by  the  wagon  load.  That  is  the  way  hay  was  sold,  in  the  bulk. 
If  a  farmer  were  unscrupulous  enough  to  add  water  to  the  hay 
before  it  was  sold,  he  might  get  away  with  it.  A  farmer  of  this 
particular  kind  was  heard  to  call  out  into  the  yard,  "John,  put  an- 
other dozen  buckets  of  water  on  the  hay  and  come  in  to  prayers." 
That  poor  fellow  was  not  thinking  straight.  Neither  are  the  mem- 
bers of  our  Church  who  get  on  these  relief  rolls  under  false  pre- 
tenses! Bobby  Burns,  the  Scotch  poet,  put  it  very  aptly,  "The 
man  of  independent  mind  looks  and  laughs  at  a'  that." 

"Consistency,  thou  art  a  jewel!"  Yes,  folks,  while  our  mis- 
sionaries are  out  in  the  world,  trying  to  bring  honest  souls  into 
the  Church,  some  of  us  at  home  are  doing  this  kind  of  thinking. 
While  they  are  giving  a  good  pail  of  milk,  we,  at  home,  are  kick- 
ing it  over!  What  do  people  think  of  the  rest  of  us  when  we  are 
so  inconsistent? 

Honesty  Enjoined 

Not  too  long  ago  I  went  to  a  stake  consisting  of  six  wards, 
where  we  found  one  hundred  fifty  families  on  relief,  notwith- 
standing this  was  more  of  an  agricultural  area  with  business  aug- 
mented by  war  industries — peaches,  $3.00  a  bushel,  other  crops 
accordingly — this  was  the  condition  we  found.  It  seems  to  us 
that  often  no  consideration  is  given  from  where  the  money  comes 
or  how  long  the  government  can  stand  such  a  strain.  The  only 
thing  in  which  they  are  interested  is  self,  or  in  other  words,  "The 
government  can  go  to  the  devil,  but  I  am  going  to  get  mine!"  Is 
this  the  stuff  that  built  up  America?  Is  this  the  mettle  that  killed 
the  snakes  and  made  the  desert  blossom  as  a  rose? 

It  is  a  question  oftentimes  ,of  degree — how  far  we  should  go 
into  these  things.  Let  us,  as  members  of  the  Church,  be  fair  to 
one  another — to  use  the  rough  expression — let's  not  pass  the  buck! 
Let's  face  the  truth  if  it  kills  us!  The  trouble  is  not  alone  with 
others  as  it  is  with  ourselves.  Let's  be  frank  and  diagnose  our 
own  case  and  we  will  get  better  that  much  quicker  than  we  will 
by  evading  the  truth.  Sometime  ago,  in  visiting  a  stake,  I  took 
occasion  to  read  the  reports  showing  how  much  hard  liquor  was 
consumed  in  that  stake.  A  member  of  the  stake  presidency  was 
indignant  at  the  figures  and  refuted  something  like  this:  "We 
would  have  Brother  Ashton  understand  that  ,the  only  reason  so 
much  liquor  is  consumed  in  our  stake  is  that  we  have  so  many 
hunters  coming  from  Salt  Lake."  Brothers  and  sisters,  let's  not 
fool  ourselves.  If  the  shoe  fits,  let's  wear  it. 

Sometimes  we  are  like  a  horse  that  isn't  bridle-wise,  when 
we  pull  the  left  rein,  the  horse  goes  headlong  to  the  left  and  if 


ELDER  MARVIN  O.  ASHTON  107 


we  pull  the  right  rein,  he  goes  headlong  to  the  right.  One  time, 
I  bad  a  little  mare  that  tipped  us  over  in  the  ditch  because  she 
wasn't  bridle-wise.  And  the  sad  part  of  it  is  that  men  who  hold 
public  offices  and  should  know  better,  even  encourage  this  care- 
less handling  of  the  truth.  When  we  find  out  what  kind  of  fellows 
they  are,  if  we  would  just  kiss  them  good-bye,  we  would  be  wise. 

If  you  think  I  am  trying  to  talk  politics  tonight,  you  are  sadly 
mistaken.  I  have  enough  to  answer  for  without  that.  I  thought 
Brother  Bennion  was  very  brave  today.  I  would  not  be  as  brave 
as  he,  but  he  got  away  with  it  all  right.  I  am  not  talking  politics. 
I  did  not  say  a  Democrat  was  honest,  and  a  Republican  was  not, 
or  vice  versa.  I  am  going  to  keep  right  out  of  that.  ^What  I  am 
trying  to  do  is  to  talk  honesty.  The  sad  part  of  it  is  that  these 
fellows  in  office,  whether  it  be  now  or  two  years  ago,  or  four 
years  hence,  or  whatever  you  wish  to  call  it,  pretend  to  be  our 
friends,  and  they  forget  all  about  what  honesty  is.  When  you 
get  a  fellow  like  that  kiss  him  good-bye,  but  do  it  as  quickly  as 
you  possibly  can.  ; 

Apt  Illustrations 

Years  ago  a  contractor  told  me  a  story,  along  this  line,  that 
I  shall  never  forget.  It  may  have  its  application  right  here.  The 
assets  of  a  ranger  were  largely  his  sheep.  The  old  gentleman  had 
three  sons,  one  of  whom  was  supposed  to  be  one  of  those  fellows 
who  were  not  too  bright.  The  rancher  died,  and  the  thing  now 
to  do  was  to  divide  the  estate  which,  as  stated,  was  largely  sheep. 
The  two  older  boys  connived  together.  They  would  abide  by  the 
wishes  of  their  father  before  his  death,  and  yet  very  decidedly  they 
wanted  the  best  of  the  bargain  and  pooled  their  interests  against  their 
simple  young  brother.  As  the  sheep  were  to  be  divided,  they 
thought  they  would  make  three  pens,  putting  in  each  pen  a  third 
of  the  sheep.  By  the  way,  this  little  fellow  who  was  thought 
not  to  be  too  bright  had  a  pet  >sheep  that,  like  Mary's  little  lamb, 
its  fleece  was  white  as  snow  and  every  where  the  boy  went,  this 
lamb  was  sure  to  go.  He  loved  it  very  dearly.  He  thought  so 
much  of  it  that  he  decorated  it  with  a  blue  ribbon.  He  fondled 
it  and  caressed  it.  Now,  the  two  older  boys  thought  they  would 
capitalize  on  the  love  of  the  boy  for  the  animal.  They  proceeded 
accordingly.  Into  the  center  pen  of  these  three  pens  they  had 
constructed,  with  the  dividing  of  the  sheep,  they  put  all  the  gum- 
mers,  all  the  runts  and  all  the  shabby  sheep.  Of  course,  they 
watched  that  the  number  was  the  same  in  each  pen,  but  into  this 
pen  of  the  culls,  they  put  the  pet  lamb  with  the  blue  ribbon  around 
his  neck.  Now,  it  doesn't  take  much  reasoning  to  follow  the 
philosophy  of  such  a  wonderful  division  of  the  father's  assets. 
Now,  ,they  said  to  their  weak-minded  brother,  "Willie,  you  may 
take  your  pick."    Willie  did  just  exactly  what  they  thought — 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Dag 


he  made  a  bee-line  for  the  pen  wherein  bleated  the  pride  of  his 
heart — his  pet  lamb.  He  opened  the  gate,  rushed  in,  put  his  arms 
around  his  pet  lamb  and  said  something  like  this,  "My  dear  little 
lamb,  we  have  been  friends  a  long  while.  I  have  called  and  you 
have  come  and  because  of  my  affection  for  you,  I  have  put  a 
blue  ribbon  around  your  neck.  I  loved  no  one  of  the  fold  as  I 
loved  you,  but,"  he  added,  "my  dear,  when  you  associate  with  a 
bunch  like  this,  this  is  where  we  must  say  good-bye."  Yes,  if 
we  would  say  good-bye  to  some  of  these  fellows  who  are  sup- 
posed to  be  our  pets,  we  would  make  this  a  better  America! 

Some  of  our  citizens  are  hanging  on  to  what  they  can  get 
like  bloodsuckers!  It  isn't  a  question  of  "what  should  I  give  to 
my  country,"  but  "how  much  can  I  bleed  her?"  "The  other  fellow 
is  getting  his,  I  am  going  to  get  mine!" 

Let  us  teach  our  children  honesty! 

When  Abraham  Lincoln  found  that  damaged  book  in  the 
crevice  of  the  logs,  he  did  not  need  to  run  to  the  owner  and  say, 
"I  will  make  that  up  in  split  rails,"  but  he  did!  When  he  found  a 
shortage  of  tea,  he  did  not  have  to  walk  five  or  ten  miles  to  make 
it  right,  to  be  forgiven,  but  he  did.  When  he  was  a  lad  of  nine  or 
ten,  his  mother  put  her  arms  around  him  and  said,  "Abe,  leave 
that  stuff  alone" — whiskey.  When  he  was  elected  President  of 
the  United  States,  he  could  have  had  champagne,  but  he  put  a 
big  pitcher  of  water  —  Adam's  ale  —  on  the  table  as  much  as  to 
say,  "If  you  don't  like  that,  you  can  lump  it."  In  other  words,  the 
seeds  of  his  mother's  teachings  bore  good  fruit. 

Children  to  be  Taught  Early  in  Life 

Let  us  start  early.  The  python  egg  is  as  innocent  looking  as 
an  hen's  egg,  but  out  of  it  comes  the  reptile  that  grows  as  big  as 
your  leg  and  hangs  from  the  first  tree  and  strangles  its  victim, 
whether  it  be  man  or  beast.  Let's  crush  the  egg  of  dishonesty  be- 
fore it  hatches! 

Now,  I  just  want  to  say  this  in  closing.  Bishop  Richards  was 
very  frank  today  in  telling  what  some  of  our  young  people  are 
doing.  It  comes  to  me  from  many  directions  that  sometimes  young 
people  think  that  so  long  as  they  do  not  drink  tea  or  coffee,  nor 
smoke,  they  can  get  away  with  anything.  Some  of  the  soldier  boys 
say  some  of  them  will  not  do  some  of  these  things,  but  "we  can 
get  what  we  want."  That  is  a  bad  situation.  Am  I  too  frank? 
I  am  going  to  say  what  I  have  said  before:  I  do  not  want  my 
children  to  drink  tea  nor  coffee,  but  I  would  rather  have  them 
take  a  bath  three  times  a  day  in  coffee  and  lap  it  up  as  they  swim 
in  it  than  to  lie!  To  repeat,  the  Lord  expressed  himself  along  this 
line  very  emphatically.  The  occasion  I  have  mentioned:  He  was 
in  favor  of  a  double  funeral  in  the  Ananias  family.  You  cannot 
do  very  much  with  a  liar.  The  Lord  won't  have  him,  and  if  I  were 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 


the  devil  I  would  not  have  him  either,  because  I  would  be  afraid 
of  being  double-crossed. 

May  the  Lord  help  us,  to  be  consistent.  May  he  help  us  to 
think  straight.  Let's  remember  that  "an  honest  man  is  the  noblest 
work  of  God."  The  closing  remarks  of  President  Grant's  mes- 
sage to  us  at  this  conference  pleaded  with  us  to  think  soundly. 
May  the  Lord  help  us  to  be  consistent  in  our  thinking,  I  ask  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F,  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 

Inasmuch  as  this  is  a  priesthood  meeting,  and  inasmuch  as  at 
our  last  semi-annual  conference  I  spoke  at  the  priesthood  meeting, 
this  was  the  one  session  at  which  I  expected  to  be  comfortable. 
I  have  learned  another  lesson  in  jumping  at  conclusions. 

Since  this  is  a  priesthood  meeting,  if  I  may  have  the  assis- 
tance of  my  Father  in  heaven,  I  should  like  to  attempt,  at  least, 
to  make  a  few  observations  that  may  answer  some  queries  you 
have,  and  I  feel  safe  in  assuming  that  some  of  these  queries  are 
common,  because  of  the  frequency  with  which  they  have  been 
put  to  me. 

The  Necessity  for  Witnesses 

Oliver  Cowdery  occupied  a  unique  position  in  the  Church. 
He  was  called  to  be  a  special  witness,  and  that  is  according  to  law. 
The  Lord  has  said  time  and  again  that  his  word  is  to  be  estab- 
lished in  the  mouths  of  two  or  three  witnesses.  ,  It  is  significant 
that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  did  not  receive  the  priesthood  by 
himself,  but  he,  together  with  Oliver  Cowdery,  received  the  priest- 
hood, and  it  was  Oliver  Cowdery's  calling  to  bear  witness  to 
these  things. 

The  Savior  himself,  according  to  the  law,  required  a  wit- 
ness, and  his  Father  in  person,  bore  witness  to  the  divinity  of  his  Son. 
Together  they  appeared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  You  will 
find  ample  Biblical  support  for  the  necessity  of  witnesses. 

Oliver  Cowdery  did  not  remain  faithful,  and  his  position  was 
given  to  Hyrum  Smith. 

N  And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  let  my  servant  William  be  ap- 
pointed, ordained,  and  anointed,  as  a  counselor  unto  my  servant  Joseph, 
in  the  room  of  my  servant  Hyrum,  that  my  servant  Hyrum  may  take  the 
office  of  Priesthood  and  Patriarch,  which  was  appointed  unto  him  by  his 
father,  by  blessing  and  also  by  right;  That  from  henceforth  he  shall  hold 
the  keys  of  the  patriarchal  blessings  upon  the  heads  of  all  my  people.  That 
whoever  he  blesses  shall  be  blessed,  and  whoever  he  curses  shall  be  cursed; 
that  whatsoever  he  shall  bind  on  earth  shall  be  bound  in  heaven;  and  what- 
soever he  shall  loose  on  earth  shall  be  loosed  in  heaven.  (Doc.  &  Cov. 
124:91-93.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dag 


Hyrum  Smith  was  called  to  be  the  patriarch  to  the  Church, 
but  he  was  also  called  to  take  Oliver  Cowdery's  place  as  special 
witness  to  the  Prophet. 

. .  .  From  this  time  forth  I  appoint  unto  him  that  he  shall  be  a  prophet, 
and  a  seer,  and  a  revelator  unto  my  church,  as  well  as  my  servant  Joseph; 
That  he  may  act  in  concert  also  with  my  servant  Joseph;  and  that  he  shall 
receive  counsel  from  my  servant  Joseph,  who  shall  show  unto  him  the  keys 
whereby  he  may  ask  and  receive,  and  be  crowned  with  the  same  blessing, 
and  glory,  and  honor,  and  priesthood,  and  gifts  of  the  priesthood,  that  once 
were  put  upon  him  that  was  my  servant  Oliver  Cowdery;  That  my  servant 
Hyrum  may  bear  record  of  the  things  which  I  shall  show  unto  him,  that 
his  name  may  be  had  in  honorable  remembrance  from  generation  to  gen- 
eration, forever  and  ever.    (Doc.  &  Cov.  124:94-96.) 

That  calling  was  over  and  beyond  his  office  of  patriarch.  He 
was  a  special  witness  to  his  brother,  and  was  shown  the  keys  of  presi- 
dency. Now  this  situation  has  been  unique  in  the  history  of  the 
Church.  Since  that  time  that  has  not  been  necessary.  There  are 
thousands  of  persons  who  now  are  witnesses  of  the  divinity  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  so  that  the  office  that  Hyrum  Smith 
held  was  more  than  the  office  which  subsequent  patriarchs  have 


Patriarchal  blessings  are  sacred  things.  It  is  significant  to 
me  ^hat  in  the  revelation,  the  great  revelation  on  priesthood,  the 
word  "patriarch"  itself  is  not  used.  I  have  pondered  that  con- 
siderably. 

It  is  the  duty  of  the  Twelve,  in  all  large  branches  of  the  church,  to 
ordain  evangelical  ministers,  as  they  shall  be  designated  unto  them  by  reve- 
lation. The  order  of  this  priesthood  was  confirmed,  to  be  handed  down 
from  father  to  son,  and  rightly  belongs  to  the  literal  descendants  of  the 
chosen  seed,  to  whom  the  promises  were  made.    (Doc.  6  Cov.  107:39-40.) 

Then  the  order  of  this  priesthood,  beginning  with  Adam,  is 
chronicled  in  the  107th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 

Now  we  know  that  these  men  were  patriarchs.  I  am  not  sure 
that  I  know  precisely  why  the  words  "evangelical  ministers"  were 
used,  rather  than  the  word  "patriarchs."  It  seems,  however,  sig- 
nificant to  me  that  the  term  here  used  suggests  very  definitely  the 
spiritual  nature  of  the  patriarchal  office.  It  is  not  an  administra- 
tive office,  it  is  not  an  executive  office,  it  is  a  spiritual  office. 

The  old  patriarchs,  of  course,  lived  under  a  patriarchal  system 
of  government.  The  head  of  the  family  was,  actually  the  head 
of  their  government,  and  that  continued  for  a  good  many  gener- 
ations. We  no  longer  live  under  a  patriarchal  form  of  govern- 
ment. ,  Our  civil  government  is  greatly  different.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  in  a  meeting  with  the  Twelve,  explains,  specifically 
that  "evangelical  ministers"  means  "patriarchs." 

If  I  remember  correctly,  he  gave  these  instructions  on  the 


held. 


Specific  Duties  of  Patriarchs 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 


111 


27th  of  June,  1839.  I  may  be  wrong.  One  of  the  duties  of  a 
patriarch  in  these  days  is  to  declare  the  lineage  of  the  persons 
receiving  blessings.  I  am  of  the  opinion  that  that  means  much 
more  than  simply  a  declaration  of  fact.  Some  persons  who  have 
received  patriarchal  blessings  and  who  have  not  had  their  lineage 
declared  have  shown  a  good  deal  of  concern,  wondering  about  it. 

I  must  confess,  for  myself,  I  have  never  been  able  quite  to 
understand  why  we  should  be  so  much  concerned  about  merely 
not  knowing.  Certainly  this  declaration  of  lineage  is  a  more  im- 
portant thing  than  simply  giving  an  individual  a  psychological  sat- 
isfaction as  to  his  heritage. 

A  Responsibility  in  Lineage 

I  believe  that  a  declaration  of  lineage,  by  the  authority  of  the 
priesthood  is  also  a  declaration  of,  and  an  assignment  to,  a  re- 
sponsibility. When  one  has  his  lineage  declared,  he  is  given  a 
responsibility  to  fulfill,  according  to  that  heritage. 

On  the  very  day  that  the  Prophet  explained  that  evangelical 
ministers  meant  patriarchs,  he  also  explained  some  of  the  functions 
of  the  Comforter.  He  explained  the  difference  between  the  two 
comforters,  and  he  explained  that  one  of  the  functions  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  is  to  purge  the  Gentiles  of  their  Gentile  blood.  Now  we 
know  that  today  heritages  are  mixed.  Pure  racial  strains — certainly 
in  the  Occident — are  almost  impossible  to  discover.  Bloods  are  mixed 
but  a  Gentile,  born  of  full  Gentile  lineage,  being  converted  to  the 
gospel,  accepting  the  gospel,  and  receiving  the  Holy  Ghost, 
through  his  faithfulness,  according  to  the  Prophet's  words — and 
these  are  not  my  words — according  to  the  Prophet's  words,  will 
have  his  Gentile  blood  completely  purged,  and  he  will  become  lit- 
erally of  the  blood  of  Israel. 

I  think  that  fact  is  something  for  patriarchs  prayerfully  to 
ponder. 

A  Father's  Blessing 

The  question  has  arisen  a  number  of  times  recently  whether 
or  not  fathers,  are  entitled  to  give  their  children  patriarchal  blessings. 
The  answer  is  yes  and  no.  After  all,  if  you  are  going  to  deal 
technically  merely  in  the  meanings  of  words,  a  patriarchal  bless- 
ing means  a  father's  blessing.  A  patriarch  is  literally  a  paternal 
ruler.  That  i£what  the  word  means,  and  any  father  in  the  Church 
who  holds  the  higher  priesthood,  may,  in  the  authority  of  that  priest- 
hood give  un|o  his  child  a  blessing,  and  that  is  a  patriarchal  blessing, 
in  that  it  is  d  father's  blessing. 

But  according  to  the  ruling  of  the  Church,  that  blessing  is 
not  to  be  recorded  as  having  come  from  an  ordained  patriarch, 
because  it  does  not  come  from  an  ordained  patriarch.  The  busi- 
ness of  declaring  lineage  and  giving  patriarchal  blessings,  these 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Dag 

blessings  given  by  one  who  is  ordained  a  patriarch;  that  is  the 
privilege  of  the  ordained  patriarch.  Such  blessings  are  recorded 
and  kept  in  the  Church  historian's  library. 

More  Than  One  Patriarchal  Blessing 

There  are  some  who  would  like  to  have  more  than  one  patri- 
archal blessing.  In  the  early  days  of  the  Church  many  people 
received  many  patriarchal  blessings,  or  at  least  blessings  by  patri- 
archs. The  First  Presidency  and  Council  of  the  Twelve  have 
advised  that  one  person  receive  one  patriarchal  blessing.  Now, 
that  is  not  one  of  the  laws  of  the  Medes  and  Persians.  There  are 
and  have  been  a  few  cases  that  have  come  to  my  attention  where 
persons  have  received  patriarchal  blessings  when  they  were  very 
young,  and  where  they  have  felt  that  the  blessings  have  been 
mostly  fulfilled,  and  they  would  like  another  patriarchal  blessing. 

The  advice  of  the  First  Presidency  and  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  is  to  the  effect  that  under  normal  circumstances  one  person 
should  receive  one  patriarchal  blessing.  I  think  that  wherever 
there  is  to  be  an  exception,  the  recommendation  for  that  excep- 
tion should  be  made  very,  very  carefully,  and  bishops  and 
stake  presidents  should  exercise  care  in  that  regard.  If  the  bishop 
and  the  stake  president  concerned,  after  careful  and  very  thorough 
consideration,  feel  that  conditions  warrant  it,  they  may  issue  a 
signed  recommendation  to  their  patriarch  to  give  an  additional 
patriarchal  blessing  to  the  person  recommended.  In  such  rare 
cases,  where  the  lineage  has  already  been  declared,  there  is  no 
need,  of  course,  for  repetition. 

A  Patriarchal  Blessing  for  Individual  Comfort 

A  patriarchal  blessing  is  a  very  personal  thing.  Sometimes 
zealous  teachers  in  auxiliary  organizations  develop  enthusiasm  in 
classes  for  patriarchal  blessings,  and  there  have  been  cases  where 
whole  classes  have  gone  to  receive  their  patriarchal  blessings  at 
one  time.  This  brethren,  would  better  be  avoided.  It  is  commend- 
able, on  the  part  of  teachers  of  children,  to  talk  about  patriarchal 
blessings,  to  explain  the  importance  of  them  and  their  value,  but 
the  individual  himself,  if  he  wants  it,  should  first  obtain  his  proper 
recommendation,  and  then  make  his  own  appointment  with  the 
patriarch,  and  having  received  that  blessing  he  should  hold  it 
sacred.  It  is  not  a  thing  to  be  published;  it  is  not  for  everybody 
to  see;  it  is  for  his  comfort,  for  his  strengthening.  It  is  his  blessing. 

Every  one  of  you  who  has  had  a  patriarchal  blessing  prob- 
ably has  a  testimony  about  it,  and  almost  daily  one  of  the  great 
joys  comes  to  me — as  it  does  to  every  patriarch — and  also  one  of 
the  terrifying  things  about  the  position,  is  the  testimonies  of  per- 
sons who  have  received  patriarchal  blessings.  I 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALUS 


113 


Blessing  Upon  His  Son 

Let  us  teach  our  children  the  value  of  them,  let  us  teach  them 
what  they  are,  let  us  instill  into  them  a  desire  to  get  them. 

I  think  one  of  the  biggest  thrills  that  I  have  had  was  a  few 
weeks  ago.  One  day  on  my  appointment  sheet  I  read  merely  "ap- 
pointment." There  was  no  name.  I  asked  my  secretary  who  that 
was,  and  she  mumbled  something  rather  inarticulately.  At  the 
appointed  hour,  my  little  nine-year-old  boy  came  into  my  office, 
beaming  all  over.  On  his  own  initiative  he  had  gone  to  his  bishop 
and  the  president  of  the  stake  and  he  brought  me  his  recommend- 
ation to  have  his  daddy  give  him  a  patriarchal  blessing. 

I  acknowledge  my  weakness;  many  times  a  day  I  am  aware 
of  my  utter  dependence  upon  our  Father  in  heaven.  I  ask  you,  my 
brethren  for  your  sustaining  prayers.  I  bespeak  for  every  patri- 
arch in  the  Church  the  prayers  of  our  brethren. 

God  give  us  vision  in  these  times  when  nations  are  being 
sacrificed  upon  the  altar  of  righteousness.  Give  us  the  power  to 
see  and  the  strength  to  do,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  male  chorus  sang  "The  Holy  City." 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  must  not  encroach  on  the  time  of  the  First  Presidency  in 
this  important  meeting.  May  I  read  a  story  that  was  published 
in  The  Reader's  Digest  of  April  1944: 

"That's  the  Spirit" 

The  bomber  had  been  almost  ripped  apart  by  German  cannon.  The 
ball  turret  gunner  was  badly  wounded  and  stuck  in  the  blister  on  the  under- 
side of  the  fuselage.  Crew  men  worked  frantically  to  extricate  the  young- 
ster but  there  was  nothing  they  could  do.   They  began  to  jump. 

The  terror-stricken  lad  screamed  in  fear,  as  he  saw  what  was  happen- 
ing. The  last  man  to  Jump  heard  the  remaining^  crewman,  a  gunner,  say, 
"Take  it  easy,  kid,  we'll  take  this  ride  together." 

And  they  took  that  ride  of  death  together;  and  together  they  stood  at 
the  gates  of  God,  the  selfsame  God  who  died  for  all  men. 

A  Plea  for  Unselfishness 

Brethren,  in  this  hour  of  trial,  we  must  all  take  the  ride  to- 
gether, eschewing  all  selfishness  and  personal  advantage.  You 
ask  for  a  postwar  program.  The  Lord  gave  it  to  us.  It  is  as  follows: 

Wo  unto  you  rich  men,  that  will  not  give  your  substance  to  the  poor, 
for  your  riches  will  canker  your  souls;  and  this  shall  be  your  lamentation 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Dag 


in  the  day  of  visitation,  and  of  judgment,  and  of  indignation:   The  harvest 
is  past,  the  summer  is  ended,  and  my  soul  is  not  saved! 

Wo  unto  you  poor  men,  whose  hearts  are  not  broken,  whose  spirits 
are  not  contrite,  and  whose  bellies  are  not  satisfied,  and  whose  hands  are 
not  stayed  from  laying  hold  upon  other  men's  goods,  whose  eyes  are  full  of 
greediness,  and  who  will  not  labor  with  your  own  handsl  (Doc.  &  Cov. 
56:16.  17.) 

The  blood  of  the  rich  men's  sons  and  the  blood  of  the  poor 
men's  sons  commingle  at  this  very  hour  upon  bloody  battlefields 
in  a  brave  endeavor  to  keep  the  temple  of  liberty  inviolate  and 
keep  eternal  those  principles  of  freedom  for  which  our  forefathers 
bled  and  died. 

Is  it  not  possible  for  the  rich  man,  the  capitalist,  and  the 
laborer  to  meet  at  a  round  table  conference  and  settle  all  these 
economic  troubles?  If  they  will  meet  in  the  spirit  of  Christ,  these 
things  will  be  settled  to  the  satisfaction  of  all  concerned. 

May  God  send  that  day  which  the  Nephite  people  enjoyed 
that  golden  era  of  two  centuries,  where  in  their  industrial  and  so- 
cial life  all  things  were  had  in  common;  they  lived  in  the  pros- 
perity of  Christ;  there  were  no  rich  and  no  poor.  Banish  selfish- 
pess  from  the  world  and  this  blessed  condition  would  be  realized. 

We  are  in  the  midst  of  turbulent  times.  Reason  is  invited  to 
give  way  to  partisanship;  but  we  must  not  blind  ourselves  to  the 
good  of  all  the  people  of  the  United  States.  Let  us  pray  with 
the  poet: 

God  give  us  men.   A  time  like  this  demands 
Strong  minds,  great  hearts,  true  faith  and 

ready  hands! 
Men  whom  the  lust  of  office  does  not  kill; 
Men  whom  the  spoils  of  office  cannot  buy: 
Men  who  possess  opinions  and  a  will; 
Men  who  have  honor,  men  who  will  not  lie: 
Men  who  can  stand  before  a  demagogue 
And  damn  his  treacherous  flatteries  without 

winking; 

Tall  men,  sun-crowned,  who  live  above  the  fog 
In  public  duty  and  in  private  thinking; 
For  while  the  rabble,  with  their  thumb-worn 
creeds, 

Their  large  professions  and  their  little  deeds, 
Mingle  in  selfish  pride,  lo  Freedom  weeps, 
Wrong  rules  the  land,  and  waiting  Justice  sleeps. 

—J.  G.  Holland 

May  God  give  us  reason.  May  we  in  prayer  approach  him 
for  guidance  in  temporal  as  well  as  in  spiritual  things,  and  may 
unselfishness  rule  the  land,  and  rule  in  the  hearts  of  men,  that 
these  economic  differences  may  be  adjusted  in  the  spirit  of  tran- 
quility, reason  and  divine  justice,  and  may  we  all  take  the  eco- 
nomic ride  together,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


115 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

To  the  leaders  in  stakes,  in  wards,  and  in  quorums  of  the 
Church,  I  wish  to  say  that  there  is  present  need  for  the  putting 
forth  of  greater  effort  than  ever  before  to  teach  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  The  man  or  woman  who  keeps  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
is  true  to  himself  or  herself.  The  man  who  is  honest  with  his 
God  ,in  paying  his  tithes  and  offerings  is  usually  honest  with  his 
fellow  men.  The  man  who  speaks  the  truth  is  one  who  should 
be  chosen  to  teach  your  children,  and  leaders  in  stakes  and  wards 
should  be  more  careful  than  ever  to  see  that  the  teachers  in  our 
auxiliaries  and  in  our  quorums  are  men  who  are  true  to  them- 
selves, to  the  Church,  and  to  their  God. 

Sunday  School  Teachers  and  the  Word  of  Wisdom 

You  know  that  too  many  of  our  young  girls  today  are  in- 
dulging in  nicotine.  Designing  men,  by  attractive,  insidious  ad- 
vertising, are  leading  youth  astray.  Recently  (and  that  is  just  a 
few  weeks  ago)  several  young  girls,  some  of  whom  are  members  of 
the  .Church,  were  playing  cards,  and  nearly  all  of  those  present 
were  smoking.  One  of  the  girls  who  herself  was  smoking,  said 
during  the  game  while  a  cigaret  was  in  her  hand:  "Next  Sunday 
I  begin  to  teach  a  Sunday  School  class.  I  am  going  into  religion!" 

A  Catholic  girl  who  spoke  to  a  Mormon  girl  who  was  not 
smoking,  said:  "I  do  not  understand  that.  Your  Church  does 
not  believe  in  smoking.  Why  is  she  appointed  to  teach  a  Sunday 
School  class?" 

"Well,"  said  the  Mormon  girl,  "you  smoke." 

"I  know,  but  I  am  not  teaching." 

When  that  young  girl  was  asked  to  teach  a  Sunday  School 
class  I  think  some  bishop  slipped!  Young  men  and  young  women 
whom  we  appoint  to  teach  our  children  should  be  asked  specific 
questions  regarding  their  attitude  toward  the  standards  of  the 
Church.  I  should  not  like  to  have  any  little  grandchild  of  mine 
sit  in  a  class  Sunday  morning  and  listen  to  a  girl  teach  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  or  any  other  principle  of  the  gospel,  and  then  have 
that  grandchild  see  her  teacher  smoking  a  cigaret.  A  girl  who 
accepts  the  responsibility  of  teaching,  and  who  indulges  in  smoking 
and  drinking  is  guilty  of  hypocrisy,  dishonesty  of  the  worst  kind. 

A  Lesson  from  "Les  Miserables" 

Jean  Val  Jean  as  Monsieur  Mayor — you  will  remember  in 
that  great  work  of  Victor  Hugo's  (Les  Miserables) — came  one 
day  upon  some  laborers  who  were  very  busy  pulling  up  nettles. 
The  nettles  were  lying  there — thrown  out  to  die.  The  great  leader 
picked  up  one  and  said:  "This  is  dead,  but  it  would  be  well  if  we 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturdag,  October  7 


Second  Day 


knew  how  to  put  it  to  some  use.  When  the  nettle  is  young  the 
leaves  make  excellent  greens,  even  when  old  it  has  filaments  and 
fibers  like  hemp  and  flax.  Cloth  made  from  the  nettle  is  worth  as 
much  as  that  made  from  hemp.  Chopped  up,  the  nettle  is  good  for 
poultry,  pounded,  it  is  good  for  horned  cattle." 

He  named  some  other  uses  and  added,  "If  we  would  take  a 
little  pains  the  nettle  would  be  useful;  we  neglect  it  and  it  be- 
comes harmful,  then  we  kill  it." 

He  then  paused  and  said:  "How  much  men  are  like  nettles! 
My  friends,  remember  this,  that  there  are  no  bad  herbs  and  no 
bad  men;  there  are  only  bad  cultivators!" 

I  think  the  man  or  woman  who  stands  before  a  class  to  teach 
the  standards  of  the  Church  who  himself  or  herself  does  not  live 
up  to  those  standards  is  a  "bad  cultivator." 

Suggested  Questions  for  Teachers 

Bishops,  do  not  hesitate  to  ask  the  men  and  women  whom 
you  choose  to  teach  our  children  the  following  questions  direct: 

Can  you  support  the  authorities  of  the  Church?  Are  you  in 
harmony  with  the  bishopric?  With  the  stake  president?  The  gen- 
eral authorities? 

Do  you  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom  when  you  are  out  in 
society,  on  the  street,  or  wherever  you  are? 

Do  you  pay  your  tithing? 

Do  you  keep  the  Sabbath  day  holy? 

Are  you  honest  in  your  dealings  with  your  fellow  men? 

Do  not  hesitate  to  put  these  and  other  pertinent  questions 
directly  to  teachers,  when  you  call  them.  Appeal  to  them  and 
try  to  make  them  realize  that  to  be  a  teacher  is  to  be  a  leader, 
a  copartner  with  the  Creator  in  moulding  souls. 

The  Moulding  of  Souls 

The  thought  behind  the  following  lines  is  worthy  of  a  better 
dress  than  the  author  has  put  upon  it: 

x     The  sculptor  may  chip  the  marble  block, 
The  painter  a  blot  erase, 
But  the  teacher  who  wounds  a  little  child 
May  never  his  fault  efface. 

O  realize  then,  indifferent  one, 

In  moulding  a  plastic  soul 

The  blight  you  cause,  the  scar  you  make 

May  meet  you  at  Judgment's  Roll. 

God  help  us  as  teachers  and  leaders  to  set  worthy  examples 
to  our  children,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  ]R. 


117 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren:  I  shall  not  detain  you.  I  arise  from  a  sense  of 
duty  and  because  President  McKay  has  asked  me  to  do  so. 

Some  four  years  ago  I  was  down  in  Oklahoma  City  attending 
a  Scout  meeting.  I  gave  some  pretty  strong  doctrine  for  that  group 
regarding  the  teaching  of  youth,  and  I  summed  up  the  principle 
behind  some  of  my  observations  in  a  sentence  reading  somewhat 
like  this:  "Youth  will  not  hearken  to  a  sinning  man  crying  repent- 
ance." I  still  stand  by  that  observation. 

Unity  A  Principle  of  Power 

I  would  like  to  say  just  a  word  or  two  on  a  subject  that  I 
touched  on  last  conference  and  that  I  may  talk  about  again  at  some 
other  conference  if  I  shall  be  spared  to  be  with  you.  I  refer  to  the 
question  of  unity,  and  I  will  make  my  observations  brief  and  as 
pointed  as  I  may. 

Brethren:  If  this  Church  is  to  grow  as  the  Lord  wants  it  to 
grow,  if  the  people  are  to  become  as  righteous  in  their  living  as  the 
Lord  wants  them  to  become,  there  must  be  unity  in  this  Church. 
It  will  not  do  for  presidents  of  stakes  or  for  bishops  or  for  heads 
of  auxiliary  organizations  to  chart  their  own  course.  If  we  are  to 
move  forward  we  must  move  together.  I  loathe  war  so  much  that 
I  hate  to  use  any  illustration  in  connection  with  it,  but  I  do  call 
your  attention  to  this  fact,  of  which  we  are  all  sensible  in  these 
times,  that  there  could  be  no  successful  campaign  by  a  series  of 
armies  if  they  did  not  act  in  unity.  If  every  general  "went  off  on 
his  own,"  there  never  would  be  a  successful  operation. 

Now,  so  much  for  unity  in  administration.  I  would  like  to  say 
just  a  word  about  unity  in  faith.  The  whole  history  of  the  world 
shows  that  nations  have  gone  into  decay  and  have  fallen  because 
of  internal  trouble,  internal  dissension,  internal  rottennness.  The 
church,  speaking  in  general  terms — not  of  our  Church — has  had 
the  same  experience.  Foes  from  without  were  not  the  church's 
undoing,  it  was  those  who  were  within. 

Words  of  Warning 

I  want  to  say  to  you  brethren,  and  I  am  not  professing  any 
spirit  of  seership  or  prophecy,  I  am  only  going  on  the  lessons 
which  history  has  taught  me,  but  I  tell  you  we  are  beginning  to 
follow  along  the  course  of  the  early  Christian  church.  So  long  as 
that  church  was  persecuted  from  without,  it  prospered,  but  when 
it  began  to  be  polluted  from  within,  the  church  began  to  wither. 

There  is  creeping  into  our  midst,  and  I  warn  you  brethren 
about  it,  and  I  urge  you  to  meet  it,  a  great  host  of  sectarian  doc- 
trines that  have  no  place  amongst  us.  The  gospel  in  its  simplicity, 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  7  Second  Dag 


is  to  be  found  in  the  revelations,  the  teachings  of  the  Prophet  and 
the  early  leaders  of  the  Church.  We  shall  make  no  mistake  if  we 
follow  them.  We  shall  make  mistakes,  and  we  shall  lead  our  youth, 
or  some  of  them,  to  apostasy  if  we  try  to  harmonize  our  simple 
beliefs  with  the  philosophy  and  the  speculations  of  sectarian  doc- 
trines. When  you  can  hear  in  our  Sunday  Schools  in  some  of  our 
most  prominent  wards,  that  we  do  not  need  to  worry  much  about 
or  think  much  about  the  first  vision,  we  do  not  need  to  think  very 
much  about  the  atoning  sacrifice  of  Christ — that  is  a  mystery;  we 
do  not  need  to  think  very  much  about  the  power  of  healing  or 
functions  of  the  priesthood,  but  only  about  our  cultural  and  ma- 
terial achievements,  we  would  better  be  careful. 

We  must  not  "liberalize,"  and  I  put  that  term  in  quotes,  our 
teachings;  we  must  accept  them  as  God  gave  them  to  us  and  there 
must  be  amongst  us  a  unity  in  faith.  We  used  to  hear  that  ex- 
pression often  when  I  was  a  boy,  I  have  not  heard  it  for  a  long 
time,  but  it  is  a  good  term  to  get  back  into  our  vocabularies. 

May  the  Lord  give  us  unity,  may  he  inspire  us  with  his  Spirit, 
may  he  give  all  of  us  humility,  make  us  humble,  teach  us  how  little 
we  know,  and  may  he  give  us  a  realizing  sense  of  our  obligation 
towards  the  youth,  to  see  to  it  that  no  word  or  thought  or  act  of 
ours  shall  tamper  with  their  faith. 

Youth  Hungering  for  the  Gospel 

I  testify  from  my  observation,  to  the  truthfulness  of  the  words 
of  Brother  Clayton  last  night  to  the  bishops  when  he  told  them 
that  the  youth  were  hungering  for  the  gospel.  You  read  the  letters 
from  the  boys  at  the  front  when  they  tell  you  about  what  they 
talk  when  they  come  together  in  meetings.  It  is  about  the  restored 
gospel,  it  is  about  faith  and  the  power  of  faith  and  righteous  living. 
When  they  get  to  the  front,  with  all  that  that  means,  all  finespun 
ethics  and  philosophy  leave  them;  they  come  back  to  the  stern 
realities  of  religion — the  existence  of  God,  the  atoning  blood  of 
the  Savior,  the  power  of  faith,  the  reality  of  the  first  vision,  the 
reality  of  the  priesthood,  the  reality  of  power  of  the  priesthood,  the 
reality  of  salvation. 

God  give  us  all,  I  repeat,  humility  and  a  full  sense  of  our 
obligation  to  the  youth  and  of  our  responsibility  if  we  mislead 
them,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

It  is  a  joy  to  be  with  you,  my  brethren.  Each  of  these  speakers 
representing  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  the  First  Council  of  Seventy, 
the  Twelve,  and  the  Patriarch,  have  given  special  messages.  Let 
us  give  heed  to  them. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


119 


I  am  sure  that  you  would  have  me  express  to  the  Tabernacle 
Male  Chorus  your  sincere  appreciation  of  their  inspirational  con- 
tribution— this  evening.  They  have  contributed  as  have  the  speak- 
ers to  a  very  uplifting  and  instructive  service. 

You  will  remain  seated  while  the  male  chorus  now  sings. 
"Discovery,"  by  Grieg.  Following  that,  the  benediction  will  be  of- 
fered by  President  Claude  Brown  of  the  Twin  Falls  Stake. 

After  the  benediction  this  conference  will  be  adjourned  until 
ten  o'clock  tomorrow  morning,  at  which  hour  the  broadcasting  pro- 
ceedings will  be  resumed  over  radio  station  KSL  and  over  the 
radio  station  at  Cedar  City  and  possibly  two  in  Idaho.  We  will 
report  to  you  tomorrow  morning.  Admission  will  be  only  by  tickets. 
Please  bring  your  Song  Folders  with  you. 

As  we  shall  go  on  the  air  for  the  usual  CBS  Tabernacle  Choir 
broadcast  at  10  o'clock  sharp,  everybody  should  plan  to  be  in  his 
seat  no  later  than  9:50  a.m. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  male  chorus  sang  "Discovery" — Grieg. 
President  Claude  Brown  of  the  Twin  Falls  Stake  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday,  October  8  at  10  o'clock  a.m. 

THIRD .  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Sunday  morning,  October  8. 

The  Sunday  morning  session  of  the  Conference,  during  which, 
in  addition  to  the  usual  Conference  proceedings,  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  and  Organ  broadcast  and  the  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast 
were  given,  commenced  at  10  o'clock  a.  m. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Preceding  the  broadcast  we  shall  open  this  morning's  session 
of  the  third  day  of  conference  by  prayer.  President  Grant,  who  is 
at  home  listening  to  the  services  over  the  direct  wire  from  the 
tabernacle  to  his  home,  requests  that  his  Second  Counselor  con- 
duct the  services. 

Prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Owen  G.  Reichman  of  the 
Bonneville  Stake. 


Elder  Owen  G.  Reichman,  President  of  the  Bonneville  Stake, 
offered  the  invocation. 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  8  Third  Dag 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

During  the  period  from  10:00  to  10:30  a.m.,  the  regular 
morning  Tabernacle  Choir  and  organ  broadcast  was  presented. 
The  broadcast  which  originated  with  radio  station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  was  presented  through  the  courtesy  and  facilities  of  the  Co- 
lumbia Broadcasting  System's  coast-to-coast  network,  throughout 
the  United  States.  The  program  was  as  follows: 

(At  10:00  the  choir  and  organ  broke  into  "Gently  Raise," 
singing  words  to  end  of  second  line,  from  which  point  the  choir 
hummed  the  melody  for  announcer's  background  to  the  end  of 
verse. ) 

Richard  L.  Evans,  announcer:  Another  week  of  life  has  come 
and  gone,  and  again  we  welcome  you  to  Temple  Square  in  Salt 
Lake  City,  with  music  and  the  spoken  word  shaping  a  pattern  of 
quiet  thoughtfulness  for  this  day  of  rest  and  reverence. 

At  this  hour  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System  and  its  af- 
filiated stations  bring  you  the  795th  nationwide  performance  of  this 
traditional  broadcast  from  the  Crossroads  of  the  West,  with  J. 
Spencer  Cornwall  conducting  the  singing  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir, 
Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ,  and  the  spoken  word  by  Richard 
Evans. 

We  begin  with  a  chorus  by  Archangelsky  written  on  a  text 
from  the  55th  Psalm — "Lend  thine  ear  to  my  prayer,  O  Lord,  my 
God  .  .  .  Because  of  the  voice  of  the  enemy,  because  of  the  op- 
pression of  the  wicked  .  .  .  my  heart  is  sore  pained  within  me  .  .  . 
and  tearfulness  and  trembling  are  come  upon  me  .  .  .  Help  me, 
Lord,  to  conquer  over  danger." 

(Choir  sang  "Lend  Thine  Ear  To  My  Prayer.") 

Announcer:  It  is  written  that  the  song  of  the  righteous  is 
a  prayer  unto  the  Lord;  and  so  have  the  masters  of  music  pre- 
served their  supplications  in  song,  one  of  which  Dr.  Asper  recalls 
in  the  quiet  and  reverent  phrases  of  a  "Prayer"  by  Devred. 

(Organ  presented  "Prayer" — Devred) 

Announcer:  A  choral  theme  in  memory  of  the  righteous  de- 
parted continues  this  hour  from  Temple  Square  as  the  choir  sings 
from  the  writings  of  Tchaikowsky — "How  Blest  Are  They  Whom 
Thou  hast  chosen  and  taken,  unto  Thee,  O  Lord.  Their  memorial  is 
from  generation  to  generation." 

(Choir  sang  "How  Blest  Are  They.") 

Announcer:   Quietly  spoken  now  by  the  Tabernacle  organ  is 
the  benediction  of  a  closing  day.  It  is  the  "Evensong"  by  Schumann. 
( Organ  presented  "Abendlied" — Schumann ) 

Announcer:  "Children's  children  are  the  crown  of  old  men;  and 
the  glory  of  children  are  their  fathers."  (Proverbs  17:6.)  This,  from 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST  121 


Proverbs,  suggests  comment  on  a  law  of  privilege  and  responsibility, 
established  in  the  wisdom  of  God.  Every  man  born  of  woman  has 
the  right  to  be  taught  wisely,  to  be  nurtured  and  sustained,  loved 
and  cherished,  and  provided  for  until  he,  himself,  is  able  to  as- 
sume his  own  obligations  and  support.  He  then  in  turn  has  the 
obligation  to  rear  children  of  his  own,  to  make  a  good  home  for 
them,  to  nurture  and  counsel  and  instruct,  until  they  shall  grow 
in  wisdom  and  arrive  at  the  age  and  ability  to  do  for  themselves 
the  needful  things  of  life.  But  beyond  what  a  man  may  rightfully 
expect  to  receive  from  his  parents,  and  beyond  what  he  may  be 
privileged  to  give  his  children,  he  has  also  an  obligation  to  the  home 
in  which  he  was  born  and  nurtured  and  to  those  who  have  reared 
him.  The  moment  a  man  feels  no  obligation  to  his  parents,  or  the 
moment  a  parent  feels  no  obligation  to  his  children,  the  moment 
there  is  no  feeling  of  interdependence  and  responsibility  to  brothers 
and  sisters  in  the  home,  the  spirit  of  irresponsibility  and  selfishness 
has  taken  over.  In  some  places  in  this  world  and  generation  of 
ours  there  has  been  a  tendency  to  remove  these  obligations  of  home 
and  family.  May  heaven  protect  us  from  the  inroads  of  such  false 
philosophy  and  may  we  also  do  something  to  protect  ourselves 
from  it.  The  family  is  the  strongest  unit  of  society  because  it  is 
the  unit  of  highest  responsibility,  and  to  break  down  this  strength 
is  ultimately  to  break  down  civilization  itself,  because  if  men  are 
not  made  to  feel  their  obligations  to  home  and  family,  they  can- 
not be  made  to  feel  their  obligations  to  anyone  or  anything — and 
soon  this  selfishness  and  irresponsibility  make  their  inroads  upon 
communities  and  nations.  The  obligations  of  parents  to  children, 
the  obligations  of  children  to  parents,  and  the  obligations  of 
brother  to  brother,  are  socially,  economically,  and  spiritually  sound, 
and  morally  irrevocable — and  any  society  in  which  the  family  is 
not  the  measure  of  strength  has  fallen  upon  evil  ways,  and  is 
marked  for  weakness  and  disintegration.  And  the  hearts  of  the 
fathers  shall  be  turned  to  their  children,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children 
to  their  fathers.    ( See  Malachi  4:6.) 

(Without  announcement,  choir  broke  into  "God  of  Our 
Fathers" — Warren ) 

(Without  announcement,  organ  modulated  into  "Softly  Now 
the  Light  of  Day.") 

Announcer:  From  the  choir  we  have  heard  the  19th  century 
hymn  "God  of  Our  Fathers,"  whose  almighty  hand  leads  forth. 

And  now  turning  to  Handel's  "Messiah"  we  close  from  Temple 
Square  with  the  singing  of  a  profoundly  worshipful  choral  tribute 
to  Jesus  the  Christ,  the  Prince  of  Peace,  the  Savior  of  Mankind: 
"Worthy  is  the  Lamb  that  was  slain" — Handel. 

(Choir  sang  "Worthy  is  the  Lamb  that  was  slain.") 

(End  of  Broadcast) 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  8  Third  Day 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  are  now  convening  the  morning  session  of  the  third  day 
of  the  115th  Semi- Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

President  Grant  is  listening  by  a  special  wire  from  the  taber- 
nacle to  his  home. 

The  regular  session  of  this  conference  will  now  convene  for 
a  half  hour,  then  the  Columbia  Church  of  the  Air  will  be  given. 

The  proceedings  of  this  conference  are  being  broadcast  over 
KSL,  KSUP  at  Cedar  City,  and  KFXB  at  Nampa  and  Boise. 

This  historic  building  is  filled  to  capacity.  With  the  exception 
of  the  ladies  in  the  choir  the  entire  congregation  is  made  up  of 
stake,  ward,  and  quorum  officers,  as  previously  announced  through 
the  public  press. 

Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  as  heretofore  announced,  is  con- 
ducting the  music,  and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  is  at  the  organ. 

Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be 
our  first  speaker. 

ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

The  Church  is  often  spoken  of  as  the  "vineyard  of  the  Lord." 
It  is  so  referred  to  in  a  parable  that  the  Lord  gave  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  which  I  wish  to  relate  to  you  here: 

Parable  of  the  Vineyard 

A  certain  nobleman  had  a  spot  of  land,  very  choice;  and  he  said  unto 
his  servants:  Go  ye  unto  my  vineyard,  even  upon  this  very  choice  piece 
of  land,  and  plant  twelve  olive-trees; 

And  set  watchmen  round  about  them,  and  build  a  tower,  that  one  may 
overlook  the  land  round  about,  to  be  a  watchman  upon  the  tower,  that  mine 
olive-trees  may  not  be  broken  down  when  the  enemy  shall  come  to  spoil 
and  take  unto  themselves  the  fruit  of  my  vineyard. 

Now,  the  servants  of  the  nobleman  went  and  did  as  their  lord  com- 
manded them,  and  planted  the  olive-trees,  and  built  a  hedge  round  about, 
and  set  watchmen,  and  began  to  build  a  tower. 

And  while  they  were  yet  laying  the  foundation  thereof,  they  began 
to  say  among  themselves:   And  what  need  hath  my  lord  of  this  tower? 

And  consulted  for  a  long  time,  saying  among  themselves:  What  need 
hath  my  lord  of  this  tower,  seeing  this  is  a  time  of  peace? 

Might  not  this  money  be  given  to  the  exchangers?  For  there  is  no 
need  of  these  things. 

And  while  they  were  at  variance  one  with  another  they  became  very 
slothful,  and  they  hearkened  not  unto  the  commandments  of  their  lord. 

And  the  enemy  came  by  night,  and  broke  down  the  hedge;  and  the 
servants  of  the  noblemen  arose  and  were  affrighted,  and  fled;  and  the 
enemy  destroyed  their  works,  and  broke  down  the  olive-trees. 

Now,  behold,  the  nobleman,  the  lord  of  the  vineyard,  called  upon  his 
servants,  and  said  unto  them,  Why!  what  is  the  cause  of  this  great  evil? 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN  123 


Ought  ye  not  to  have  done  even  as  I  commanded  you,  and — after 
ye  had  planted  the  vineyard,  and  built  the  hedge  round  about,  and  set 
watchmen  upon  the  walls  thereof — built  the  tower  also,  and  set  a  watch- 
man upon  the  tower,  and  watched  for  my  vineyard,  and  not  have  fallen 
asleep,  lest  the  enemy  should  come  upon  you? 

And  behold,  the  watchman  upon  the  tower  would  have  seen  the 
enemy  while  he  was  yet  afar  off;  and  then  ye  could  have  made  ready  and 
kept  the  enemy  from  breaking  down  the  hedge  thereof,  and  saved  my  vine- 
yard from  the  hands  of  the  destroyer.  (Doc.  &  Cov.  101:44-54.) 

The  Church  Program  Far-reaching 

The  gospel  plan  has  many  fields  of  activity.  Each  one  of  those 
fields  is  vital  and  essential.  We  have  the  work  of  the  priesthood 
quorums  for  men  and  for  boys;  we  have  the  Church  welfare 
plan;  we  have  our  financial  system  of  tithing,  and  fast,  and  other 
offerings;  we  have  the  work  of  the  auxiliaries:  we  have  the  plan 
of  clean  living,  known  as  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  many  other 
fields  of  activity.  Each  one  is  positively  essential  in  its  place;  each 
one  was  set  there  by  the  Lord  himself  as  part  of  the  plan  of  sal- 
vation. It  is  not  for  us  to  say  that  any  part  of  the  plan  of  God  is 
not  essential.  It  is  not  for  us  to  say  that  any  part  is  unimportant, 
to  be  disregarded  with  impunity. 

One  organization  may  not  say  to  another,  "I  have  no  need  of 
thee,"  any  more  than  the  eye  can  say  to  the  ear,  "I  have  no  need 
of  thee,"  nor  the  hand  to  the  foot,  "I  have  no  need  of  thee."  As 
Paul  said: 

For  the  body  is  not  one  member,  but  many;  ...  if  the  whole  body  were 
an  eye,  where  were  the  hearing?  If  the  whole  were  hearing,  where  were 
the  smelling?  But  now  hath  God  set  the  members  everyone  of  them  in 
the  body,  as  it  hath  pleased  him.  (I  Cor.  12:14,  17,  18.) 

Let  me  repeat  that  last  bit  of  scripture:  "Now  hath  God 
set  the  members  everyone  of  them  in  the  body  as  it  hath  pleased 
him." 

The  Lord  expects  us  to  live  the  gospel  by  participating  in  the 
program  of  the  Church.  Every  part  of  that  program  may  be 
likened  unto  the  trees  and  the  tower  in  the  parable  I  have  read 
to  you.  Each  tree  was  planted  by  commandment  of  the  Lord;  the 
tower  was  to  be  erected  likewise  by  the  commandment  of  the  Lord, 
who  clearly  explained  to  his  servants  the  purpose  of  the  construc- 
tion of  such  a  tower. 

Likewise,  the  various  parts  of  our  program  have  been  set  in 
the  Church  by  the  Lord  for  a  particular  purpose,  a  wise  purpose 
in  him,  as  a  means  of  bringing  into  his  fold  the  souls  of  men. 

Attitude  of  Some  Members  Against  Outlined  Plan 

But  there  are  those  among  us  who  do  not  consider  that  all 
these  parts  of  the  program  of  the  Church  are  necessary.  They  feel 
that  they  are  unimportant,  and  that  therefore  they  are  not  in  any 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8 


Third  Dag 


way  bound  to  comply  with  them,  How  much  are  they  like  the 
servants  in  the  vineyard,  spoken  of  in  the  parable  in  these  words: 

And  while  they  were  yet  laying  the  foundation  thereof,  they  began 
to  say  among  themselves,  And  what  need  hath  my  lord  of  this  tower? 
And  consulted  for  a  long  time,  saying  among  themselves:  What  need 
hath  my  lord  of  this  tower,  seeing  this  is  a  time  of  peace?  Might  not  this 
money  be  given  to  the  exchangers?  For  there  is  no  need  of  these  things. 
(Doc.  6Cov.  101:47-49.) 

We  might  paraphrase  the  words  of  the  parable  to  express,  the 
attitude  of  some  among  us  by  saying: 

What  need  hath  my  Lord  of  this  Church  welfare  program,  seeing  this 
is  a  time  of  prosperity?  What  need  hath  my  Lord  of  a  plan  to  remove  the 
aged  from  the  public  welfare  roils  of  the  state  and  the  counties,  seeing  that 
we  pay  high  taxes,  and  are  invited  to  accept  the  government  dole  without 
so  much  as  having  to  work  to  get  it? 

Or  what  need  hath  my  Lord  of  this  Melchizedek  Priesthood  program, 
with  its  four  committees  and  its  projects  and  assignments  for  the  members 
of  the  quorums,  seeing  this  is  such  a  busy  time  and  we  have  not  time  to 
take  care  of  our  own  personal  affairs,  let  alone  bother  with  the  affairs  of 
our  brethren?  Or  what  need  hath  my  Lord  of  an  Aaronic  Priesthood  pro- 
gram? Why  should  we  bother  with  a  standard  quorum  award  plan,  re- 
quiring the  boys  to  attend  their  priesthood  meeting  every  Sunday  morn- 
ing, seeing  that  Sunday  is  the  only  day  of  the  week  on  which  they  might 
stay  in  and  sleep  and  get  a  little  more  rest  than  they  normally  could  get? 
Also,  why  bother  with  such  a  program  when  so  many  of  our  boys  are  in 
the  service  of  their  country? 

Or  what  need  hath  my  Lord  of  printing  and  publishing  a  Church 
News  for  its  service  men;  why  should  we  bother  sending  it  out  to  those 
boys,  when  it  is  just  too  much  trouble  to  mail  it  to  them? 

Or  what  need  hath  my  Lord  of  a  Word  of  Wisdom,  when  I  simply 
must  have  my  cup  of  coffee  for  a  morning  "pick-up"? 

Or  what  need  hath  my  Lord  of  a  tithing  system  when  I  need  my 
money  for  other  things? 

To  return  to  the  words  of  the  parable: 

And  while  they  were  at  variance  one  with  another  they  became  very 
slothful,  and  they  hearkened  not  unto  the  commandments  of  their  Lord. 

You  look  into  the  failure  of  any  person  to  live  the  command- 
ments of  God,  or  you  look  into  the  failure  of  any  organization  to 
follow  the  outlined  program  of  the  Church,  and  you  will  find  the 
person,  or  the  organization,  which  does  not  regard  the  program  of 
the  Church  or  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  as  particularly  im- 
portant. "What  need  hath  my  Lord  of  these  things?" 

Invariably  failure  follows  those  organizations,  because,  as  the 
parable  points  out: 

.  .  .  the  enemy  came  by  night,  and  broke  down  the  hedge;  and  the 
servants  of  the  nobleman  arose  and  were  affrighted,  and  fled;  and  the 
enemy  destroyed  their  works,  and  broke  down  the  olive-trees.  Doc.  & 
Cov.  101:51.) 

An  Aaronic  Priesthood  organization  which  fails  to  take  care 
of  its  boys  according  to  the  outlined  program,  will  see  its  boys  be- 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN  125 

come  disinterested.  Soon  the  boys  start  staying  away,  and  before 
long  they  drift  into  evil  habits. 

Results  of  Following  Own  Desires 
Where  is  the  fault  for  such  a  condition?  Is  it  with  the  boys, 
or  is  it  in  the  failure  of  the  organization  to  follow  the  outlined 
plan? 

A  father  decides  that  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  are  not 
necessary,  so  he  becomes  inactive,  and  soon  his  wife  and  children 
likewise  discontinue  keeping  the  commandments,  and  soon  we  have 
an  inactive  family  on  our  hands. 

A  priesthood  quorum  or  other  organization  may  be  headed  by 
officers  who  feel  that  the  plan  as  revealed  to  them  by  the  author- 
ized servants  of  God  is  not  really  necessary  and  not  really  im- 
portant, and  that  they  have  ideas  that  are  much  better  themselves, 
and  therefore  they  do  not  follow  the  program.  Soon,  however, 
they  find  that  their  organization  begins  to  slip;  that  the  interest  of 
their  members  falls  off,  then  the  attendance  declines,  and  before 
long  the  organization  fails  to  fulfill  the  function  for  which  it  was 
created. 

So  we  see  the  results  of  failure  to  follow  the  outlined  pro- 
gram of  the  Church. 

Then,  in  the  words  of  the  parable,  the  lord  of  the  vineyard 
speaks  and  says: 

. .  .  Why!  what  is  the  cause  of  this  great  evil?  Ought  ye  not  to  have 
done  even  as  I  commanded  you,  and — after  ye  have  planted  the  vineyard, 
and  built  the  hedge  round  about,  and  set  watchmen  upon  the  walls  there- 
of— built  the  tower  also,  and  set  a  watchman  upon  the  tower,  and  watched 
for  my  vineyard,  and  not  have  fallen  asleep,  lest  the  enemy  should  come 
upon  you?  And  behold,  the  watchman  upon  the  tower  would  have  seen 
the  enemy  while  he  was  yet  afar  off;  and  then  ye  could  have  made  ready 
and  kept  the  enemy  from  breaking  down  the  hedge  thereof,  and  saved  my 
vineyard  from  the  hands  of  the  destroyer.    (Doc.  &  Cov.  101:52-55.) 

Rebuke  Given  by  the  Lord  to  the  Early  Saints 

More  than  a  hundred  years  ago  the  Lord  desired  to  establish 
the  center  stake  of  Zion  at  Independence,  Missouri,  but  the  at- 
tempt met  with  failure,  which  caused  the  Prophet  of  God  to  grieve. 
The  Lord  explained  to  him,  saying: 

Verily  I  say  unto  you,  concerning  your  brethren  who  have  been  af- 
flicted and  persecuted,  and  cast  out  from  the  land  of  their  inheritance — 

I,  the  Lord,  have  suffered  the  affliction  to  come  upon  them,  where- 
with they  have  been  afflicted,  in  consequence  of  their  transgressions;  .  .  . 

Behold,  I  say  unto  you,  there  were  jarrings,  and  contentions,  and  envy- 
ings,  and  strifes,  and  lustful  and  covetous  desires  among  them;  therefore 
by  these  things  they  polluted  their  inheritances. 

They  were  slow  to  hearken  unto  the  voice  of  the  Lord  their  God; 
therefore,  the  Lord  their  God  is  slow  to  hearken  unto  their  prayers,  to 
answer  them  in  the  day  of  their  trouble. 

In  the  day  of  their  peace  they  esteemed  lightly  my  counsel;  but,  in  the 
day  of  their  trouble,  of  necessity  they  feel  after  me.  (Doc.  &  Cov.  101: 
1-2;  6-8.) 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  S  Third  Dap 


That  is  so  much  like  human  nature.  When  we  regard  our 
work  in  the  Church,  let  us  remember  that  we  are  working  in  the 
vineyard  of  the  Lord,  and  that  we  are  his  servants,  just  as  the 
servants  who  worked  in  the  planting  of  those  olive-trees.  And  re- 
member, too,  that  if  we  esteem  lightly  the  word  of  the  Lord  in  the 
day  of  our  prosperity,  in  the  day  of  our  trouble  he  may  be  slow 
to  hearken  unto  our  prayers,  to  answer  us  and  provide  for  our 
needs. 

Sustaining  the  Leaders  of  the  Church 

During  this  conference  we  have  raised  our  hands  and  sus- 
tained the  authorities  of  this  Church:  when  we  sustained  Heber  J. 
Grant  as  president,  we  took  a  vote  also  to  sustain  him  as  prophet, 
seer,  and  revelator.  Then  we  voted  to  sustain  the  counselors  in 
the  First  Presidency,  and  the  Twelve,  and  the  Patriarch,  and  after 
we  had  thus  voted,  we  took  an  entirely  different  vote.  This  time 
we  sustained  this  group  of  men  as  prophets,  seers,  and  revelators, 
in  addition  to  their  positions  of  membership  in  the  Twelve,  the 
Patriarch,  or  as  counselors  in  the  First  Presidency. 

Some  people  ask:  "When  is  a  prophet  really  a  prophet?"  You 
remember  the  reply  that  is  frequently  given,  that  is,  that  a  prophet 
is  a  prophet  when  he  speaks  by  the  power  of  his  office. 

I  want  to  tell  you  brethren  that  the  program  of  the  Church 
that  has  been  given  to  you  has  been  provided  to  you  officially  by 
these  presiding  brethren  whom  you  have  sustained  as  prophets, 
seers,  and  revelators.  This  program  has  been  given  to  you  officially 
by  them,  functioning  in  their  official  capacity.  Therefore  what  right 
do  we  have  to  say  that  this  part  of  the  program  is  not  necessary, 
or  that  part  of  the  program  is  not  necessary? 

Always  we  have  been  taught  that  the  first  principle  of  the 
gospel  is  faith.  We  have  been  taught  that,  "We  believe  in  God, 
the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Holy 
Ghost."  Can  we  say  that  we  really  and  truly  believe  in  Jesus 
Christ  if  we  do  not  believe  in  the  program  of  his  Church?  And 
if  we  do  not  believe  in  the  program  of  his  Church,  can  we  say 
that  we  are  truly  and  honestly  followers  of  the  lowly  Nazarene? 
"If  you  love  me,  keep  my  commandments."  Remember  that  com- 
mand; each  one  of  us  should  think  of  it  with  respect  to  our  ad- 
herence to  the  program  of  the  Church,  whether  it  is  personal  ad- 
herence, whether  it  is  adherence  on  the  part  of  an  organization,  or 
within  our  families.   "If  you  love  me,  keep  my  commandments." 

Love  for  God  Shown  in  Faithful  Service 

When  the  Lord  gave  us  the  first  great  commandment,  I  am 
tlwnkful  also  that  he  gave  us  that  part  of  the  4th  Section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  which  says: 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR  BROADCAST  127 


...  O  ye  that  embark  In  the  service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve  him  with 
all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength,  that  ye  may  stand  blameless  before 
God  at  the  last  day.  (Doc.  &  Cov.  4:2.) 

If  you  really  and  truly  believe  in  the  first  and  great  com- 
mandment, to  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  might, 
mind  and  strength,  it  means  then  that  you  will  serve  him  with  all 
your  soul,  and  with  all  your  heart,  with  all  your  mind,  with  all 
your  might,  and  with  all  your  strength.  That  means  that  you  will 
serve  him  without  reservation  of  any  kind,  and  that  of  a  truth  you 
will  put  your  whole  soul,  your  whole  heart,  into  the  work  of  Al- 
mighty God,  that  you  will  apply  the  best  of  your  intelligence,  you 
will  serve  him  with  all  your  mind,  by  seeking  to  know  the  pro- 
gram of  the  Church,  and  then  to  live  up  to  that  program  with  all 
your  soul. 

It  means  likewise  if  you  are  going  to  love  him  and  serve  him 
with  all  your  strength,  that  you  will  serve  him,  with  all  your  physi- 
cal strength,  with  all  your  mental  strength,  with  all  your  spiritual 
strength,  and  with  the  strength  of  all  your  resources,  whatsoever 
they  may  be.  If  you  really  love  the  Lord  your  God  you  will  serve 
him  in  that  manner.  And  all  who  do  so  are  likened  unto  a  wise 
man  that  built  his  house  upon  the  rock,  and  the  rain  descended 
and  the  floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and  beat  upon  that  house, 
and  it  fell  not,  for  it  was  founded  upon  a  rock. 

My  brethren,  I  pray  that  we  may  have  the  faith  and  the  cour- 
age to  follow  the  program  of  the  Church.  I  pray  that  we  may  sus- 
tain the  authorities  of  the  Church  not  only  with  our  hands,  but 
that  we  may  sustain  them  also  with  our  works  in  following  the  out- 
lined program,  and  not  setting  up  something  of  our  own  which  is 
not  in  harmony  with  the  program  that  is  provided  by  the  inspir- 
ation of  these  men  whom  you  have  sustained  as  prophets,  seers, 
and  revelators  during  this  conference.  And  this  is  my  prayer,  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


At  the  suggestion  of  President  McKay,  the  congregation  arose 
and  joined  with  the  Tabernacle  Choir  in  singing  one  verse  of  "An 
Angel  From  on  High"  (Song  Folder  No.  23). 

CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR  BROADCAST 

Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  Church  of  the  Air  was  pre- 
sented from  11:00  to  11:30  a.m.,  as  a  part  of  the  proceedings  of 
this  session  of  the  conference.  Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  was  the 
announcer.  The  program  was  as  follows: 

Announcer:  The  Church  of  the  Air  was  established  by  the 
Columbia  network  so  that  representatives  of  the  major  faiths  might 
bring  their  messages  to  ,a  nationwide  congregation  of  worshippers. 
This  series,  which  is  now  in  its   fourteenth  year  of  continuous 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8  Third  Day 


broadcasts,  presents  two  devotional  programs  each  Sunday.  To- 
day, the  network  service  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  comes  to  you  from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  where  the  1 1 5th  semi-annual  conference 
of  the  church  is  now  in  session.  The  speaker  will  be  Elder  Ezra 
T.  Benson,  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of 
the  Church.  He  speaks  today  on  the  subject:  America,  A  Choice 
Land.  The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  direction  of 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  provides  the  music  for  the  service.  Dr.  Frank 
W.  Asper  is  at  the  organ.  The  choir  opens  with  a  chorus  from  the 
St.  Paul  by  Mendelssohn,  using  the  text  from  scripture:  "How  Lovely 
Are  the  Messengers  That  Preach  Us  the  Gospel  of  Peace." 

Choir  sang,  "How  Lovely  Are  the  Messengers" — Mendelssohn. 

Announcer:  We  now  give  the  service  into  the  hands  of  Elder 
Ezra  T.  Benson,  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

To  the  peoples  who  should  inhabit  this  blessed  land  of  the 
Americas,  the  Western  Hemisphere,  an  ancient  prophet  uttered 
this  significant  promise  and  solemn  warning: 

Behold,  this  is  a  choice  land,  and  whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it 
shall  be  free  from  bondage,  and  from  captivity,  and  from  all  other  nations 
under  heaven,  if  they  will  but  serve  the  God  of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ, 
.  .  .  For  behold,  this  is  a  land  which  is  choice  above  all  other  lands;  where- 
fore he  that  doth  possess  it  shall  serve  God  or  shall  be  swept  off;  for  it  is 
the  everlasting  decree  of  God.    (Book  of  Mormon,  Ether  2:10  and  12.) 

America  Founded  on  Christian  Principles 

Founded  on  the  truth  of  Christian  principles,  this  nation  has 
become  the  world's  greatest  power.  Whence  have  come  our  bless- 
ings of  influence  and  success,  and  what  assurance  do  we  have  that 
these  blessings  may  be  continued?  Have  they  not  come  as  a  result 
of  a  humble  and  devout  recognition  of  the  overruling  power  of 
Almighty  God  in  the  establishment  of  this  nation,  and  the  willing- 
ness of  the  founding  fathers  to  conform  their  actions  to  divine 
law? 

Our  earliest  American  fathers  came  here  with  a  common  ob- 
jective— freedom  of  worship  and  liberty  of  conscience.  The  Pil- 
grim Fathers,  the  Puritans  in  New  England,  the  Quakers  in  Penn- 
sylvania, the  Catholics  in  Maryland,  the  Lutherans  in  Georgia, 
and  the  Huguenots  in  Virginia,  all  came  seeking  God  and  the  en- 
joyment of  God-given,  self-evident  rights  based  on  eternal  prin- 
ciples. Familiar  with  the  sacred  scriptures,  they  believed  that  lib- 
erty is  a  gift  of  heaven.  To  them,  man  as  a  child  of  God,  empha- 
sized the  sacredness  of  the  individual  and  the  interest  of  a  kind 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON  129 

Providence  in  the  affairs  of  men  and  nations.  They  acknowledged 
their  dependence  upon  God  as  they  exhibited  their  humble  faith 
in,  and  devotion  to,  Christian  principles. 

Those  who  later  became  the  leaders  and  founders  humbly  rec- 
ognized the  need  for,  and  actuality  of,  divine  guidance.  They  saw 
clearly  the  importance  of  vital  religion  and  morality  in  the  affairs 
of  men  and  nations.  The  following  are  a  few  quotations  from 
their  sincere  statements.   George  Washington  said: 

No  people  can  be  found  to  acknowledge  and  adore  the  Invisible 
Hand  which  conducts  the  affairs  of  men  more  than  the  people  of  the  United 
States.  Every  step  by  which  they  have  advanced  to  the  character  of  an 
independent  nation  seems  to  have  been  distinguished  by  some  token  of 
providential  agency. 

Then  as  to  the  place  of  religion  and  morality,  the  Father  of 
our  country  continues: 

Of  all  the  dispositions  and  habits  which  lead  to  political  prosperity, 
religion  and  morality  are  indispensable  supports,  .  .  .  Reason  and  experi- 
ence both  forbid  us  to  expect  that  national  morality  can  prevail  in  exclusion 
of  religious  principle. 

Daniel  Webster  with  prophetic  vision  declared: 

If  we  and  our  posterity  shall  be  true  to  the  Christian  religion,  and  if 
we  and  they  shall  live  always  in  the  fear  of  God,  and  shall  respect  his  com- 
mandments, ...  we  may  have  the  highest  hopes  of  the  future  fortunes  of 
our  country. 

However,  he  pointed  out  that  if  we  fail  so  to  do  then, 

No  man  can  tell  how  sudden  a  catastrophe  may  overwhelm  us  that 
shall  bury  all  our  glory  in  profound  obscurity. 

\ 

These  are  solemn  words  but  fully  as  sobering  are  the  words 
of  Abraham  Lincoln  uttered  many  years  later  as  follows: 

God  rules  this  world,  ...  I  am  a  full  believer  that  God  knows  what 
he  wants  a  man  to  do — that  which  pleases  him.  It  is  never  well  with  that 
man  who  heeds  it  not,  .  .  .  Without  the  assistance  of  that  Divine  Being, 
I  cannot  succeed,  with  that  assistance  I  cannot  fail. 

And  then  regarding  our  duty  to  God,  Lincoln  warns: 

It  is  the  duty  of  nations  as  well  as  of  men  to  own  their  dependence 
upon  the  overruling  power  of  God,  to  confess  their  sins  and  transgressions 
in  humble  sorrow  .  .  .  and  to  recognize  the  sublime  truth  that  those  nations 
only  are  blessed  whose  God  is  the  Lord. 

Yes,  the  early  leaders  and  the  people  generally  of  this  great 
nation  recognized  the  necessity  for  spiritual  support  if  the  nation 
was  to  endure.  They  gave  humble  expression  to-  this  conviction 
in  the  inscription,  "In  God  We  Trust"  found  on  the  coins  of  the 
land.  The  holy  Sabbath  was  a  day  of  rest  and  worship.  Religious 
devotion  in  the  home  was  a  common  practice.  Family  prayer,  read- 
ing of  the  holy  scriptures,  and  the  singing  of  hymns  were  an  every- 

5 


130  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8 


Third  Day 


day  occurrence.  There  is  every  evidence  that  "our  fathers  looked 
to  God  for  their  direction." 

In  framing  that  great  document  which  Gladstone  declared 
"the  most  wonderful  work  ever  struck  off  at  a  given  time  by  the 
brain  and  purpose  of  man,"  our  early  leaders  called  upon  a  kind 
Providence.  Later  the  product  of  the  constitutional  convention  was 
referred  to  as  our  God-inspired  Constitution.  They  had  incorpor- 
ated within  its  sacred  paragraphs  eternal  principles  supported  by 
the  holy  scriptures  with  which  they  were  familiar.  It  was  estab- 
lished "for  the  rights  and  protection  of  all  flesh  according  to  just 
and  holy  principles."  Later  the  Lord  himself  declared,  "I  estab- 
lished the  Constitution  of  this  land,  by  the  hands  of  wise  men  whom 
I  raised  up  unto  this  very  purpose." 

Founded  as  a  great  Christian  nation  our  forebears  have  be- 
queathed to  us  an  incomparable  inheritance  as  a  sacred  trust.  As 
Americans,  are  we  worthy  of  these  rich  blessings?  Are  our  lives 
such  that  we  feel  assured  of  the  future  security  of  this  great  na- 
tion? Well  might  we  remember  that  a  continuation  of  all  these 
glorious  promises  is  conditional. 

Material  Progress  Evident 

And  what  can  we  say  of  our  material  progress?  Travel  across 
this  great  land  and  note  its  broad  fruitful  farms,  its  humming  fac- 
tories and  gleaming  cities;  its  schools,  churches,  recreational  areas, 
and  its  rich  natural  resources.  Remarkable  advances  have  been  made 
in  providing  an  ever-increasing  array  of  conveniences,  comforts, 
and  beauties  for  man.  Today  the  average  standard  of  living  of 
our  citizens  exceeds  all  known  past  records  of  the  human  family. 

The  following  is  a  quotation  from  a  prewar  article  by  Sam- 
uel B.  Pettengill: 

We  have  six  percent  of  the  world's  land  area  and  seven  percent  of  its 
people.  But  that  seven  percent  has  thirty-two  percent  of  the  world's  rail- 
way mileage,  fifty-eight  percent  of  its  telephones,  thirty-six  percent  of  its 
developed  water  power,  seventy-six  percent  of  the  world's  automobiles — 
enough  so  that  every  man,  woman,  and  child  under  the  flag;  130,000,000 
Americans,  could  climb  into  these  cars  and  all  ride  on  rubber  at  the  same 
instant  of  time,  a  nation  on  wheels,  a  miracle  of  achievement. 

This  little  seven  percent  of  the  world's  population  has  forty-four  per- 
cent of  its  radios;  produces  sixty  percent  of  the  world's  petroleum,  forty- 
eight  percent  of  its  copper,  forty-three  percent  of  its  pig  iron,  forty-seven 
percent  of  its  steel,  fifty-eight  percent  of  its  corn,  fifty-six  percent  of  its 
cotton,  twenty-five  percent  of  its  sugar,  thirty-three  percent  of  its  coal. 

This  seven  percent  of  the  world's  population  has  forty-five  percent 
of  the  world's  total  wealth;  and  far  more  than  half  of  all  the  wheels  that 
turn  on  this  planet,  .  .  .  turn  on  American  soil. 

In  the  worst  year  of  the  worst  depression  of  our  history  30,000,000 
out  of  32,000,000  American  boys  and  girls  of  school  age  stayed  in  public 
schools.  And  on  the  point  of  security  for  old  age  this  little  seven  percent 
has  $108,000,000,000  of  protection  on  the  lives  of  64,000,000  Americans, 
more  security  than  all  the  rest  of  the  world  put  together. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


131 


Truly  this  is  a  choice  land — the  richest  nation  under  heaven. 
The  Lord  has  kept  his  promise.  We  have  been  "free  from  bond- 
e.ge  and  captivity  and  from  all  other  nations  under  heaven."  Ma- 
teiially  we  have  excelled.  We  have  become  a  great  power.  But 
what  of  our  spiritual  progress?  Do  we  accept  Jesus  Christ  as  "the 
God  of  the  land,"  the  Redeemer  of  the  world?  Do  we  worship 
him  in  spirit  and  in  truth?  Are  we  followers  of  the  Prince  of  Peace 
and  believers  in  his  divine  admonitions?  He  has  clearly  pointed 
the  way  and  would  that  all  his  children  might  follow! 

A  Decline  in  Spiritual  Things  Evident 

Today  the  world  is  engaged  in  bloody  conflict — a  life  and 
death  struggle.  Begun  among  Christian  nations  who  had  the  Bible, 
it  is  resulting  in  a  loss  of  life  and  property  unequalled  in  the  his- 
tory of  the  world. 

One  might  easily  imagine  a  repetition  of  the  words  of  the 
Master,  spoken  over  disobedient  Jerusalem,  repeated  today  as  he 
gazes  from  the  heavens  on  this  war-torn  world: 

O  Jerusalem,  Jerusalem,  thou  that  killest  the  prophets,  and  stonest  them 
which  are  sent  unto  thee,  how  often  would  I  have  gathered  thy  children 
together,  even  as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under  her  wings,  and  ye 
would  not!  Behold,  your  house  is  left  unto  you  desolate.  (Matthew  23: 
37  and  38.) 

Does  not  our  house  appear  to  be  left  to  us  desolate?  Men 
seem  to  be  groping  blindly,  aimlessly,  without  finding  the  way. 
With  all  our  material  progress  we  have  made  no  appreciable  ad- 
vancement in  human  relations.  Man  still  seems  to  be  motivated 
largely  by  selfish  interests  without  the  power  to  control  himself, 
his  greed,  and  his  passions.  Is  it  not  true  that  as  a  nation  we  have 
forgotten  God?  Yes,  it  seems  clear  that  as  a  people  we  have  be- 
come indifferent,  irreverent  seekers  after  passing  pleasures  which 
have  no  permanent  value.  We  have  turned  away  from  the  eternal 
principles  of  righteousness. 

The  words  of  the  immortal  Lincoln  ring  down  through  the 
ages  as  a  solemn  indictment  today: 

We  have  been  the  recipients  of  the  choicest  bounties  of  heaven.  We 
have  been  preserved  these  many  years,  in  peace  and  prosperity.  We  have 
grown  in  numbers,  wealth,  and  power  as  no  other  nation  has  ever  grown; 
but  we  have  forgotten  God.  We  have  forgotten  the  gracious  hand  which 
preserved  us  in  peace,  and  multiplied  and  enriched  and  strengthened  us; 
and  we  have  vainly  imagined,  in  the  deceitfulness  of  our  hearts,  that  all 
these  blessings  were  produced  by  some  superior  wisdom  and  virtue  of  our 
own.  Intoxicated  with  unbroken  success,  we  have  become  too  self-suf- 
ficient to  feel  the  necessity  of  redeeming  and  preserving  grace,  too  proud 
to  pray  to  God  that  made  us.  It  behooves  us,  then,  to  humble  ourselves 
before  the  offended  power,  to  confess  our  national  sins,  and  to  pray  for 
clemency  and  forgiveness. 

In  our  rush  for  material  things  we  have  forgotten  "the  God  of 
this  land."  We  claim  to  be  a  Christian  nation,  but  we  ignore  the 


132  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  S  Third  Dag 


teachings  of  Christ.  Religion  seems  to  be  a  declining  influence  in 
the  lives  of  our  people.  Records  show  that  more  than  half  of  our 
population  are  not  members  of  any  church  and  many  of  those  who 
are  members  are  passively  inactive.  It  has  been  estimated  that  less 
than  one-half  of  the  children  of  the  nation  are  being  reached  with 
any  type  of  religious  education.  Recently  published  statistics  show 
that  but  forty  percent  of  the  children  of  the  United  States  be- 
tween the  ages  of  five  and  seventeen  are  enrolled  in  Sunday  School. 
Concern  has  been  expressed  in  recent  years  for  the  lack  of  sup- 
port for  the  church  and  for  the  number  of  churches  that  have  closed 
their  doors.  We  seem  to  live  in  a  nation  of  irreverence. 

Devotion  in  the  home,  which  in  the  past  has  been  such  an 
anchor  to  youth,  has  all  but  vanished.  Few  families  unite  daily 
in  family  prayer  and  the  reading  of  the  scriptures.  Yet  all  will 
agree  that  this  practice  in  years  past  contributed  much  to  the 
strength  of  this  great  nation.  We  need  the  blessings  which  come 
from  daily  communion  with  God. 

The  ancient  prophet,  Isaiah,  said: 

Seek  ye  the  Lord  while  he  may  be  found,  call  ye  upon  him  while  he 
is  near:  Let  the  wicked  forsake  his  way  and  the  unrighteous  man  his 
thoughts.  (Isaiah  55:6-7.) 

Disobedience  to  the  Commandments  Weakening  the  Nation 

One  of  the  cardinal  sins  in  our  country  is  profanity — the  tak- 
ing of  the  name  of  the  Lord  in  vain.  Reverence  for  the  name  of 
deity  is  enjoined  in  holy  writ.  Jesus  made  this  clear  when  teaching 
his  disciples  to  pray;  he  said,  addressing  the  Father,  "Hallowed  be 
thy  name."  Blaspheming  the  name  of  God  separates  man  from  his 
Creator. 

And  what  of  the  holy  Sabbath?  From  Mt.  Sinai  came  the 
decree  which  is  still  in  force:  "Remember  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep 
it  holy."  Is  not  this  day  observed  more  as  a  holiday,  a  day  of 
pleasure  and  indulgence  with  little  thought  for  its  sacredness? 
Would  not  a  stranger  in  our  land  conclude  that  we  consider  this 
sacred  law  obsolete?  The  early  citizens  of  this  country  respected 
the  will  of  the  Lord  and  observed  this  holy  day  as  a  day  for  rest 
and  worship.  They  were  blessed  for  so  doing.  We  also  need  the 
blessings  which  come  from  Sabbath  observance. 

And  what  of  our  attitude  as  a  nation  regarding  the  sacred 
obligations  of  parenthood?  "Multiply  and  replenish  the  earth"  was 
among  the  earliest  commands  given  of  the  Lord.  No  more  sacred 
obligation  has  been  placed  upon  men  and  women  than  that  of 
honorable  parenthood.  We  cannot  escape  the  grave  responsibility. 
The  tragedy  of  broken  homes— the  breaking  of  the  sacred  bonds 
of  holy  matrimony  on  the  least  provocation  is  a  national  blot  upon 
this  great  nation.  The  divine  law:  "Thou  shalt  not  commit  adult- 
ery" is  still  in  force.  Sexual  sin  is  next  to  murder  in  the  "category 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

i 


133 


of  crimes  in  the  sight  of  God.  Our  record  is  such  that  it  should 
have  a  sobering  effect  on  all  true  Americans  interested  in  the 
future  welfare  of  the  nation.  We  cannot  continue  to  break  these 
sacred  laws  without  reaping  the  sad  results  of  disobedience. 

As  a  nation  we  need  the  refining  and  sustaining  influences 
which  come  from  obedience  to  divine  law.  Without  such  blessings 
the  future  of  the  nation  is  insecure.  How  can  we  expect  divine 
acceptance  when  as  a  nation  we  are  drunken  through  the  stagger- 
ingly increased  uses  of  intoxicating  liquors,  narcotics,  and  tobacco? 
The  human  body  is  the  tabernacle  of  the  spirit,  and  God  expects 
that  it  be  kept  clean  and  unimpaired.  The  increase  in  these  vices 
weakens  the  moral  fiber  of  our  nation  and  brings  disappointment 
and  sadness  followed  by  greater  sins. 

Increase  in  Crime 

One  of  the  shocking  results  of  disobedience  to  God's  com- 
mandments is  causing  deep  concern  to  most  thoughtful  people  to- 
day. Is  it  not  enough  to  sober  us  when  Mr.  J.  Edgar  Hoover,  di- 
rector of  the  F.  B.  I.,  reports  an  increase  in  1943  of  forty-three 
percent  in  arrests  of  boys  under  eighteen,  and  an  increase  of  girl 
arrests  under  twenty-one  of  forty-eight  percent?  Broken  down,  the 
arrests  of  females  under  twenty-one  for  offenses  against  common 
decency,  such  as  drunkenness,  vagrancy,  disorderly  conduct,  prosti- 
tution, commercial  vice,  and  other  sex  crimes  increased  fifty-seven  per- 
cent in  1943.  For  the  two-year  period,  1942-43,  the  increase  was 
more  than  one  hundred  percent.  It  is  no  wonder  that  Mr.  Hoover 
cries  out  in  the  face  of  these  facts : 

This  country  is  in  deadly  peril.  We  can  win  this  war,  and  still  lose 
freedom  for  all  in  America.  For  a  creeping  rot  of  moral  disintegration  is 
eating  into  our  nation.  .  .  .  America's  youth,  indicated  by  public  opinion 
as  reckless  and  carefree  is  blamed  for  these  misdeeds,  but  the  real  fault 
lies  elsewhere.  Before  any  youth  has  broken  the  law,  some  adult  has 
committed  a  more  serious  crime.  Driven  by  lust  for  money  or  enslaved 
by  pleasure,  the  adult  generation  forgets  that  the  most  solemn  obligation 
any  person  can  assume  in  the  eyes  of  God  and  man  is  to  guide  and  direct 
a  child  along  proper  paths.  To  place  anything  ahead  of  that  responsibil- 
ity is  akin  to  criminal  negligence. 

Judge  Harry  S.  McDevitt  of  Philadelphia  is  authority  for  the 
recent  statement  that  "a  new  penitentiary  should  be  built  every 
other  week  to  accommodate  the  United  States'  growing  criminal 
population.  The  national  prison  population  is  increasing  at  the  rate 
of  25,000  a  year.  Of  the  criminals  sent  to  prisons,  seventy-three 
percent  are  between  15  and  24  years  of  age."  The  records  of  the 
F.  B.  I.  show  that  "more  than  700,000  mothers  in  the  United 
States  mourn  the  fact  that  their  boys  and  girls,  all  under  voting 
age,  either  are  or  have  been  in  jail,  reformatories,  prisons,  or  have 
met  death  in  the  electric  chair.  More  than  1 3,000  families  each  year 
are  directly  affected  by  the  results  of  criminal  homicides,  many  of 
which  are  premeditated  murders." 


134  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  8  Third  Daj 

All  these  evidences  are  but  the  fruits  of  disobedience  to  di- 
vine injunction.  Less  obvious  and  more  difficult  to  measure  ac- 
curately are  other  evidences.  We  have  become  apathetic  in  our 
duty  as  citizens.  The  surprisingly  low  percentage  of  our  people 
who  exercise  their  right  to  vote  for  public  officials  is  evidence  of 
this  fact.  There  are  also  in  evidence,  in  this  blessed  land,  certain 
other  trends  which  strike  at  the  very  foundation  of  all  we  hold 
dear.  If  permitted  to  go  unchecked,  and  there  seems  to  be  little 
disposition  to  correct  them,  we  might  easily  lose  most  of  what  we 
have  gained  during  the  past  1 50  years  of  our  national  existence. 

A  Nation  Blessed  "Whose  God  is  the  Lord" 

May  a  kind  Providence  give  us  the  vision  and  courage  nec- 
essary to  stem  these  dangerous  trends.  We  need,  as  we  need  no 
other  thing,  a  nationwide  repentence  of  our  sins.  Never  before 
have  we  needed  the  blessings  of  Almighty  God  more  than  today. 
We  need  his  divine  favor  in  the  halls  of  government,  in  our  homes, 
in  the  factories  and  shops,  on  the  farms  and  on  the  battlefields  of 
the  world. 

Scientific  research  has  confirmed  the  inspired  record  of  great 
nations  which  have  inhabited  this  land.  Each  of  these  nations  pros- 
pered as  long  as  it  yielded  obedience  to  God.  They  also  became 
great  powers.  Great  material  blessings  came  to  them.  But  they 
forgot  God.  The  ancient  ruins  of  Central,  South,  and  North 
America  bear  silent  testimony  to  their  destruction.  What  of  the 
future  of  our  great  nation?  The  history  of  men  and  nations  clearly 
teaches  that  only  that  nation  is  blessed  "whose  God  is  the  Lord." 

God  is  still  at  the  helm.  He  rules  in  the  affairs  of  men  and 
nations.  But  he  "cannot  look  upon  sin  with  the  least  degree  of 
allowance."  No  one  will  deny  that  sin  has  increased  and  good- 
ness declined  in  blessed  America.  Let  us  yield  then  to  Lincoln's 
fervent  appeal,  "to  humble  ourselves  before  the  offended  power,  to 
confess  our  national  sins,  and  to  pray  for  clemency  and  forgive- 
ness." As  a  nation  we  have  been  kept  as  in  the  hollow  of  God's 
hand.  But  what  of  the  future? 

Down  through  the  ages  come  the  stirring  and  solemn  words 
of  ancient  American  prophets: 

Behold,  this  is  a  choice  land,  and  whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it 
shall  be  free  from  bondage,  and  from  captivity,  and  from  all  other  nations 
under  heaven,  if  they  will  but  serve  the  God  of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus 
Christ.  .  . .  For  behold,  this  is  a  land  choice  above  all  other  lands;  wherefore 
he  that  doth  possess  it  shall  serve  God  or  shall  be  swept  off;  for  it  is  the 
everlasting  decree  of  God.   (op.  cit.  Book  of  Mormon.) 

O,  God  our  Father,  grant  that  we,  thy  children,  shall  serve 
the  God  of  this  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ,  that  this,  our  beloved 
country,  might  be  preserved.  Amen. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  135 


The  choir  sang  "All  Hail  the  Glorious  Day" — Stephens. 
(Theme:   "Sweet  Is  the  Work" — organ  with  humming  choir.) 
(End  of  Broadcast) 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

We  shall  now  resume  the  regular  program  of  this  Conference. 

You  have  just  listened  to  an  address  by  Elder  Ezra  T.  Benson 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  who  gave  the  Columbia  Church  of 
the  Air  sermon.  Our  next  speaker  will  be  Elder  Stephen  L  Rich- 
ards of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Dear  brethren : 

I  hope  that  I  may  be  pardoned  if  I  express  great  personal  grati- 
fication and  pride  in  the  lofty  addresses  delivered  from  this  pulpit 
this  morning  by  my  recently  sustained  colleagues  in  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  [Ezra  Taft  Benson  and  Mark  E.  Petersen].  I  am 
sure  that  you  also  must  have  greatly  enjoyed  their  timely,  in- 
spiring discourses. 

There  is  a  matter  which  has  given  deep  concern  to  the  pre- 
siding brethren  of  the  Church  for  some  time  past.  It  is  not  a  very 
popular  subject  for  discussion,  but  its  importance  and  its  urgency 
are  such  that  I  have  concluded  to  make  it  the  subject  of  my  re- 
marks upon  this  occasion.  By  way  of  preface  and  as  a  part  of  the 
discussion,  I  venture  to  revive  for  you  some  old  verses  that  were 
better  known  sixty  or  seventy  years  ago  than  they  are  today.  They 
were  written  by  Will  Carleton,  an  American  journalist,  and  pub- 
lished in  a  volume  in  1873.  The  title  is  "Over  the  Hill  to  the 
Poorhouse." 

Over  the  hill  to  the  poorhouse  I'm  trudgin'  my  weary  way — 

I,  a  woman  of  seventy,  and  only  a  trifle  gray — 
I,  who  am  smart  an'  chipper,  for  all  the  years  I've  told, 

As  many  another  woman  that's  only  half  as  old. 

Over  the  hill  to  the  poorhouse — I  can't  quite  make  it  clear! 

Over  the  hill  to  the  poorhouse — it  seems  so  horrid  queer! 
Many  a  step  I've  taken  a-toilin'  to  and  fro, 

But  this  is  a  sort  of  journey  I  never  thought  to  go. 

What  is  the  use  of  heapin'  on  me  a  pauper's  shame? 

Am  I  lazy  or  crazy,  am  I  blind  or  lame? 
True,  I  am  not  so  supple,  nor  yet  so  awful  stout; 

But  charity  ain't  no  favor,  if  one  can  live  without. 

I  am  willin'  and  anxious  an'  ready  any  day 

To  work  for  a  decent  livin',  an'  pay  my  honest  way; 

For  I  can  earn  my  victuals,  an'  more  too,  I'll  be  bound, 
If  anybody  only  is  willin'  to  have  me  around. 


136  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8  Third  Day 

Once  I  was  young  an'  han'some — I  was,  upon  my  soul — 
Once  my  cheeks  was  roses,  my  eyes  as  black  as  coal; 

And  I  can't  remember,  in  them  days,  of  hearin'  people  say, 
For  any  kind  of  a  reason,  that  I  was  in  their  way. 

And  nobody  ever  hinted  that  I  was  a  burden  then. 

And  when  to  John  I  was  married,  sure  he  was  good  and  smart, 
But  he  and  all  the  neighbors  would  own  I  done  my  part; 

'Taint  no  use  of  boastin',  or  talkin'  over  free, 

But  many  a  house  an'  home  was  open  then  to  me; 

Many  a  han'some  offer  I  had  from  likely  men, 
For  life  was  all  before  me,  an'  I  was  young  an'  strong, 

And  I  worked  the  best  that  I  could  in  tryin'  to  get  along. 

And  so  we  worked  together:  and  life  was  hard,  but  gay, 
With  now  and  then  a  baby  for  to  cheer  us  on  our  way; 

Till  we  had  half  a  dozen,  an'  all  grow'ed  clean  an'  neat, 
An'  went  to  school  like  others,  an'  had  enough  to  eat. 

So  we  worked  for  the  childr'n,  and  raised  'em  every  one; 

Worked  for  'em  summer  and  winter,  just  as  we  ought  to've  done; 
Only  perhaps  we  humored  'em,  which  some  good  folks  condemn, 

But  every  couple's  childr'n's  a  heap  the  best  to  them. 

Strange  how  much  we  think  of  our  blessed  little  ones! — 

I'd  have  died  for  my  daughters,  I'd  have  died  for  my  sons; 

And  God  he  made  that  rule  of  love;  but  when  we're  old  and  gray, 
I've  noticed  it  sometimes  somehow  fails  to  work  the  other  way. 

Strange,  another  thing;  when  our  boys  an'  girls  was  grown, 
And  when,  exceptin'  Charley,  they'd  left  us  there  alone; 

When  John  he  nearer  an'  nearer  come,  an'  dearer  seemed  to  be 

The  Lord  of  Hosts  he  come  one  day  an'  took  him  away  from  me. 

Still  I  was  bound  to  struggle,  an'  never  to  cringe  or  fall — 
Still  I  worked  for  Charley,  for  Charley  was  now  my  all; 

And  Charley  was  pretty  good  to  me,  with  scarce  a  word  or  frown, 
Till  at  last  he  went  a-courtin',  and  brought  a  wife  from  town. 

She  was  somewhat  dressy,  an'  hadn't  a  pleasant  smile — 
She  was  quite  conceity,  and  carried  a  heap  o'  style; 

But  if  ever  I  tried  to  be  friends,  I  did  with  her,  I  know; 

But  she  was  hard  and  proud,  an'  I  couldn't  make  it  go. 

She  had  an  edication,  an'  that  was  good  for  her; 

But  when  she  twitted  me  on  mine,  'twas  carryin'  things  too  fur; 
An'  I  told  her  once,  'fore  company  (an'  it  almost  made  her  sick) 

That  I  never  swallowed  a  grammer,  or  'et  a  'rithmetic. 

So  'twas  only  a  few  days  before  the  thing  was  done — 
They  was  a  family  of  themselves,  and  I  another  one; 

And  a  very  little  cottage  one  family  will  do, 

But  I  never  have  seen  a  house  that  was  big  enough  for  two. 

An'  I  never  could  speak  to  suit  her,  never  could  please  her  eye 
An'  it  made  me  independent,  an'  then  I  didn't  try; 

But  I  was  terribly  staggered,  an'  felt  it  like  a  blow, 

When  Charley  turned  ag'in  me,  an'  told  me  I  could  go. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


137 


I  went  to  live  with  Susan,  but  Susan's  house  was  small. 

And  she  was  always  a-hintin'  how  snug  it  was  for  us  all; 

And  what  with  her  husband's  sisters,  and  what  with  childr'n  three, 
"Twas  easy  to  discover  that  there  wasn't  room  for  me. 

An'  then  I  went  to  Thomas,  the  oldest  son  I've  got, 

For  Thomas'  buildings'd  cover  the  half  of  an  acre  lot; 

But  all  the  childr'n  was  on  me — I  couldn't  stand  their  sauce — 
And  Thomas  said  I  needn't  think  I  was  comin'  there  to  boss. 

An'  then  I  wrote  to  Rebecca,  my  girl  who  lives  out  West, 

And  to  Isaac,  not  far  from  her — some  twenty  miles  at  best; 

And  one  of  'em  said  'twas  too  warm  there  for  anyone  so  old, 
And  t'other  had  an  opinion  the  climate  was  too  cold. 

So  they  have  shirked  and  slighted  me,  an'^  shifted  me  about— 

So  they  have  well-nigh  soured  me,  an'  wore  my  old  heart  out; 

But  still  I've  borne  up  pretty  well,  an'  wasn't  much  put  down, 

Till  Charley  went  to  the  poormaster,  an'  put  me  on  the  town. 

Over  the  hill  to  the  poorhouse — my  childr'n  dear,  good-bye! 

Many  a  night  I've  watched  you  when  only  God  was  nigh; 
And  God'll  judge  between  us;  but  I  will  al'ays  pray 

That  you  shall  never  suffer  the  half  I  do  today. 

I  read  these  old  and  homely  verses  to  you  because  I  believe 
they  have  a  meaning  for  us  today.  They  were  written  as  a  protest 
against  the  disintegration  of  family  solidarity  and  the  decline  of 
filial  affection  and  duty.  It  might  be  well  for  the  families  of  America 
if  this  old  volume  could  be  reprinted  and  widely  circulated  and 
read  and  reread  by  the  grown-up  children  of  the  land  and  their 
parents  as  well. 

Eternal  Marriage  the  Foundation  of  an  Enduring  Home 

I  am  happy  to  belong  to  a  people  whose  concept  of  home  and 
enduring  family  relationship  lies  at  the  very  basis  of  human  hap- 
piness here  and  hereafter.  I  have  long  felt  that  if  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  had  never  made  any  other  contribution  to  the  world 
than  the  incomparably  beautiful  and  satisfying  principle  of  eternal 
marriage  as  the  foundation  of  a  good  home,  which,  when  projected 
into  the  life  to  come  shall  be  the  very  substance  of  our  heaven  and 
our  exaltation,  he  would  have  been  entitled  to  a  place  on  the  very 
summit  of  man's  esteem  and  acclaim.  In  all  the  history  of  the  re- 
stored gospel  of  our  Lord  no  doctrine  or  practice  has  been  so  dis- 
tinctive. It  is  largely  because  we  have  such  faith  and  confidence 
in  the  perpetuity  of  home  and  family  that  we  have  built  our  most 
elaborate  and  expensive  structures  —  temples  of  God  —  wherein 
man  and  wife  and  children  have  been  bound  in  an  everlasting  union 
transcending  the  limitations  of  mortal  life. 

How  inestimable  is  the  comfort  this  surpassing  concept  has 
brought  to  the  families  of  the  Church.  Every  aspect  of  home  and  indi- 
vidual life  has  been  influenced  by  it.  It  has  vastly  increased  love 
and  respect  for  parents.  It  has  induced  deeper  affection  and  more 


138  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  8  Third  Day 

mutual  concern  among  the  inmates  of  the  home.  One  of  the  great- 
est deterrents  of  wrongdoing  has  been  the  fear  of  losing  a  place 
in  the  eternal  family  circle.  In  times  of  sorrow  and  bereavement 
this  lofty  principle  has  been  the  greatest  consolation.  It  is  today 
in  these  tragic  times  when  Latter-day  Saint  parents  receive  the  sad 
word  that  a  son  has  been  lost  in  battle.  They  know  that  he  is  not 
lost.  They  weep  in  the  deprivation  of  his  company,  but  they  know 
that  death  cannot  break  the  bond  which  binds  their  son  to  them.  Only 
sin  can  do  that.  When  the  family  is  reestablished  in  the  life  to  come, 
his  chair  will  not  be  vacant.  The  cruelty  of  war  and  battle  may  have 
shortened  his  mortal  existence,  but  the  destroying  angel  has  no 
power  over  his  soul  or  the  tie  that  binds  him  to  his  kin. 

The  Duty  of  Caring  for  Aged  Parents 

Now,  my  brethren,  and  friends  who  listen,  does  it  not  seem 
strange  that  men  and  women  who  subscribe  to  such  noble  con- 
cepts of  family  cohesion  can  reconcile  themselves  to  a  procedure 
and  a  philosophy,  which,  when  carried  to  its  logical  conclusion, 
would  nullify  those  natural  reciprocal  feelings  of  devotion  and  ob- 
ligation ;which  children  should  manifest  for  good  parents,  who 
have  striven  all  their  lives  to  establish  the  closely  knit  family  ties 
which  I  have  mentioned?  How  can  sons  and  daughters  who  owe 
everything  they  have — their  education,  their  ideals  of  life,  their 
capacity  to  acquire  independent  living  and  their  characters — to  parents 
who  have  worked,  sacrificed,  prayed,  wept,  and  striven  for  them 
to  the  exhaustion  of  their  bodies  and  their  energies,  be  parties  to 
a  scheme  which  would  make  their  fathers  and  mothers  the  objects 
of  charity  and  cast  the  burden  of  their  support  on  the  community 
and  stigmatize  them  with  the  loss  of  independence  and  self-respect? 
Is  it  any  less  than  this  when  sons  and  daughters  consent  to  and 
even  advocate  disposing  of  the  old  home  or  the  farm,  or  the  retire- 
ment from  respectable,  even  though  modest  jobs,  which  yield  at  least 
part  of  a  living  and  contrive  in  ways  that  will  not  always  stand  too 
close  scrutiny  to  make  the  old  folks  eligible  for  the  receipt  of  a  public 
gratuity?  Do  you  think  that  such  a  practice  can  in  any  way  pro- 
mote family  unity  and  those  emotions  and  feelings  which  must 
always  underlie  the  mutual  devotion  that  makes  for  a  true  home? 
I  believe  that  you  do  not.  For  I  believe  that  the  great  preponder- 
ance of  all  our  families,  on  mature  reflection  and  with  a  clear  under- 
standing of  the  ends  to  which  we  are  heading,  will  reach  the  con- 
clusion that  this  procedure  I  have  spoken  of  is  not  calculated  to 
promote  our  higher  ideals  of  home  and  family. 

I  think  my  food  would  choke  me  if  knew  that  while  I  could 
procure  bread  my  aged  father  or  mother  or  near  kin  were  on  public 
relief.  I  believe  a  decent  family  pride  is  a  salutary  thing  with  any 
people  and  in  any  nation.  I  don't  mean  a  family  pride  built  on  aristoc- 
racy and  vanity  which  makes  for  class  distinction  and  which  to- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


139 


day  is  one  of  the  distinct  deterrents  to  national  progress.  I  mean 
a  family  pride  in  wholesome,  self-reliant,  and  enterprising  living 
— a  family  pride  that  promotes  the  utmost  solicitude  for  each 
member  of  the  family.  It  wouldn't  hurt  my  feelings  to  hear  a 
family  boast  that  through  all  vicissitudes  they  had  come  to  each 
other's  help  and  had  never  received  public  assistance.  I  have 
known  brothers  and  sisters  to  put  each  other  through  school  by 
hard,  self-sacrificing  toil.  I  cannot  imagine  any  of  these  permitting 
their  father  and  mother  to  come  to  public  relief. 

I  do  not  intend  to  discuss  political  aspects  of  this  question. 
I  can  well  conceive  of  circumstances  which  may  warrant  public 
assistance  to  old  people  who  are  without  kindred,  or  whose  near 
relatives  are  themselves  destitute,  especially  where  there  are  no 
such  generous  provisions  for  the  care  of  the  aged  as  this  Church 
makes.  It  may  be  difficult  to  arrange  to  care  for  such  cases  with- 
out enlarging  the  scope  of  relief  to  an  unwarranted  extent.  I  would 
rather  err  on  the  side  of  mercy  than  otherwise. 

My  chief  concern  in  the  matter,  as  I  have  tried  to  indicate,  is 
in  the  pronounced  tendency  observable  all  around  us  toward  the 
disintegration  of  family  solidarity.  I  know  this  is  a  bad  omen  for 
the  Church  and  for  America.  I  believe  in  family  life.  I  venerate 
parental  and  filial  love  and  duty.  I  worship  at  the  shrine  of  the  God- 
ordained  eternal  home.  I  pray  that  its  genius  of  affection  and  unity 
may  ever  be  preserved  and  that  our  families  shall  be  endowed  with 
the  concepts,  the  courage,  the  pride  and  the  natural  affection  that 
will  keep  our  beloved  parents  from  "going  over  the  hill  to  (any 
form  of)  poorhouse,"  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Perhaps  we  may  be  justified  in  surmising  that  the  listening 
audience  this  morning,  including  the  Church  o/  the  Air  audience, 
has  numbered  over  ten  million.  Every  lover  of  truth  has  undoubt- 
edly responded  approvingly  to  the  great  messages  that  have  been 
given  by  these  three  brethren,  and  all  have  had  their  souls  lifted 
up  by  the  inspiring  strains  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir.  Not  many 
of  those  millions,  however,  realize  that  the  members  of  this  re- 
nowned musical  organization  come  here  every  week  to  practice  on 
Thursday,  and  every  Sunday  morning  to  render  this  service  to  the 
nation,  without  any  monetary  remuneration.  It  is  a  service  of  love. 
God  bless  them  and  continue  to  inspire  them  that  they  may  be 
happy  in  the  realization  that  their  efforts  are  doing  good,  en- 
couraging more  people  in  proclaiming  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
than  they  realize.  They  have  the  blessing  of  the  entire  audience, 
the  entire  Church,  and  the  approval  of  God. 


140  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8  Third  Day 

An  anthem,  "Lost  in  the  Night"  (Christiansen),  was  sung  by 
the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  William  W.  Owens, 
President  of  the  Cache  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.m. 

THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  seventh  and  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  convened 
at  2  o'clock  p.m.,  Sunday,  October  8. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  is  the  seventh  and  closing  session  of  the  115th  Semi- An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
President  Grant,  who  is  listening  to  the  services  over  a  direct  wire 
from  the  tabernacle  to  his  home,  has  requested  that  I  conduct  the 
exercises  at  this  session. 

There  are  present  on  the  rostrum  this  afternoon  all  the  Gen- 
eral Authorities  of  the  Church,  as  previously  announced;  also  in 
the  congregation  there  are  mission,  stake,  ward,  and  quorum  offi- 
cers, as  heretofore  announced  in  the  public  press. 

Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  will  direct  the  music,  Elder  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  is  at  the  organ. 

This  service  is  being  broadcast  over  KSL  and  over  KSUB  at 
Cedar  City. 

The  congregation  will  please  join  in  singing  "O,  My  Father," 
Song  Folder  number  30,  L.  D.  S.  Hymn  Book  number  34. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  My  Father." 

President  William  J.  Critchlow  of  the  South  Ogden  Stake  of- 
fered the  invocation. 

"God  Moves  in  a  Mysterious  Way"  (L.D.S.  Hymn  Book  No. 
49,  Song  Folder  No.  7 ) ,  was  sung  by  the  congregation. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren,  I  rely  upon  your  faith  and  prayers,  and  the 
guidance  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  what  I  may  be  led  to  say 
this  afternoon. 

The  Necessity  for  A  Restoration  of  the  Truth 

One  hundred  and  fourteen  years  ago  the  Lord  restored  the 
gospel  and  organized  again  his  Church  upon  the  earth.  The  rea- 


tunes  the  world  had  been  in  spiritual  darkness,  without  the 
authority,  and  without  the  understanding;  they  knew  not  how  to 
worship  the  living  God. 

The  Lord  said,  in  the  commencement  of  this  work: 

Wherefore,  I  the  Lord,  knowing  the  calamity  which  should  come  upon 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon  my  servant  Joseph  Smith,  Jun., 
and  spake  unto  him  from  heaven,  and  gave  him  commandments; 

And  also  gave  commandments  to  others,  that  they  should  proclaim 
these  things  unto  the  world;  and  all  this  that  it  might  be  fulfilled,  which 
was  written  by  the  prophets — 

The  weak  things  of  the  world  shall  come  forth  and  break  down  the 
mighty  and  strong  ones,  that  man  should  not  counsel  his  fellow  man,  neither 
trust  in  the  arm  of  flesh — 

But  that  every  man  might  speak  in  the  name  of  God  the  Lord,  even 
the  Savior  of  the  world; 

That  faith  also  might  increase  in  the  earth; 

That  mine  everlasting  covenant  might  be  established; 

That  the  fulness  of  my  gospel  might  be  proclaimed  by  the  weak  and 
the  simple  unto  the  ends  of  the  world,  and  before  kings  and  rulers.  (Doc. 
6  Cov.  1:17-23.) 

The  everlasting  covenant  had  been  broken;  the  correct  un- 
derstanding of  gospel  principles  had  disappeared  through  apost- 
asy; the  right  to  officiate  in  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel  had 
ceased  among  men.  It  became  necessary  that  all  this  might  be 
restored,  and  that  faith  might  increase  among  the  people  through 
an  opening  of  the  heavens  and  a  restoration  of  the  gospel. 

So  the  Lord  sent  his  messengers  from  his  presence,  with  the 
fulness  of  the  gospel,  and  with  power,  and  the  authority  of  the 
priesthood  to  bestow  upon  men,  and  gave  them  commandments, 
as  indicated  in  this  commandment — because  the  Lord  knew  the 
calamities  which  were  to  come  upon  the  world,  and  it  was  his 
will  that  a  proper  warning,  and  the  opportunity  to  receive  the 
gospel  be  given  unto  men  that  they  might  repent  and  turn  from 
their  evil  ways  and  serve  the  Lord. 

He  sent  forth  his  messengers  into  all  parts  of  the  earth  to 
preach  this  gospel,  and  that  is  in  fulfillment  of  the  promise  that 
is  made  by  our  Lord  as  you  find  it  recorded  in  the  24th  chapter 
of  Matthew,  not  correctly  given  in  the  Bible,  however,  but  it  is 
given  correctly  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  When  the  Lord  was 
speaking  to  his  disciples,  he  said  unto  them,  "And  again  this 
gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached  in  all  the  world  as  a  wit- 
ness, and  then  shall  the  end  come."  That  is  the  correct  understand- 
ing of  his  words. 

And  again  this  gospel  has  gone  forth  into  the  world,  and  the 


. . .  The  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my 
disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days.  And  they  shall  go  forth 
and  none  shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have  commanded  them.  Behold 
this  is  mine  authority,  and  the  authority  of  my  servants,  and  my  preface 


142  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  8 


Third  Dag 


unto  the  book  of  my  commandments,  which  I  have  given  them  to  publish 
unto  you,  O  inhabitants  of  the  earth. 

Wherefore,  fear  and  tremble,  O  ye  people,  for  what  I  the  Lord  hath 
decreed  in  them  shall  be  fulfilled.  (Doc.  6  Cov.  1:4-7.) 

And  so  his  servants  went  forth;  they  have  been  going  forth 
for  over  one  hundred  years,  proclaiming  the  truth,  crying  repent- 
ance, calling  upon  the  people  to  turn  from  their  evil  way  to  the 
worship  of  the  living  God. 

The  Message  of  the  Early  Missionaries  of  the  Church 

I  have  been  very  pleased  throughout  this  conference,  because 
it  has  been  a  cry  of  repentance.  The  Lord  said  to  some  of  those 
early  missionaries  who  went  forth,  when  they  asked  for  informa- 
tion and  guidance,  they  were  to  preach  nothing  but  repentance  and 
remission  of  sins.  He  said  he  was  sending  them  out  into  a  per- 
verse, stiff-necked  and  wicked  world. 

Let  me  read  one  or  two  of  such  passages  to  you.  In  March, 
before  the  organization  of  the  Church,  the  Lord  said: 

Oh,  this  unbelieving  and  stiff-necked  generation — mine  anger  is 
kindled  against  them.  (Doc.  &  Cov.  5:8.) 

And  in  sending  forth  these  missionaries  with  the  message  of 
truth,  he  again  said: 

I  give  unto  you,  who  are  the  first  laborers  in  this  last  kingdom,  a  com- 
mandment that  you  assemble  yourselves  together,  and  organize  your- 
selves, and  prepare  yourselves,  and  sanctify  yourselves;  yea,  purify  your 
hearts,  and  cleanse  your  hands  and  your  feet  before  me,  that  I  may  make 
you  clean;  that  I  may  testify  unto  your  Father  and  your  God,  and  my  God, 
that  you  are  clean  from  the  blood  of  this  wicked  generation,  that  I  may 
fulfill  this  promise,  this  great  and  last  promise,  which  I  have  made  unto  you 
when  I  will.  (Doc.  &  Cov.  88:74-75.) 

And  again,  when  these  missionaries  were  called  to  go,  the 
Lord  gave  them  this  instruction: 

Behold,  they  have  been  sent  to  preach  my  gospel  among  the  congrega- 
tions of  the  wicked;  wherefore,  I  give  unto  them  a  commandment,  thus: 
Thou  shalt  not  idle  away  thy  time,  neither  shall  thou  bury  thy  talent  that 
it  may  not  be  known.  (Doc.  6  Cov.  60:13.) 

That  was  the  counsel  given  to  these  missionaries.  So  they 
went  out  into  a  perverse  world,  meeting  the  opposition,  the  hatred, 
and  the  condemnation  of  men,  gathering  out,  as  the  Lord  said  they 
would,  two  of  a  family  and  one  of  a  city — rather  a  strange  expres- 
sion— but  they  gathered  them  out,  and  I  am  looking  at  this  par- 
ticular moment  into  the  faces  of  the  sons  of  the  parents  who  heard 
the  message  of  truth  and  gladly  received  it,  and  were  gathered  out. 

The  Warning  Given  to  the  World 

But  the  world  refused  to  hear  the  message,  and  down  through 
these  one  hundred  and  fourteen  years  that  this  gospel  has  been 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


143 


preached  among  the  nations  of  the  earth,  the  world  has  refused 
to  hear.  They  have  rejected  the  words  of  the  prophets;  they  have 
ridiculed  the  missionaries  who  took  the  message  to  them.  Every- 
thing that  Satan  could  do  to  bring  to  pass  his  purposes  and  to  de- 
stroy this  everlasting  work  which  has  come,  never  to  be  destroyed 
again,  nor  to  be  taken  from  the  earth,  everything  he  could  do 
was  done,  and  the  minds  of  the  people  generally  were  blinded; 
but  here  and  there  those  who  were  of  the  house  of  Israel,  who 
could  recognize  the  voice  of  the  Shepherd,  were  gathered  out. 

Now  some  of  my  good  brethren  who  have  spoken  have  given 
some  of  the  thoughts  I  hoped  to  say,  so  I  may  repeat  a  little. 

Once  again,  the  Lord  said  to  his  missionaries: 

Hearken  ye,  for,  behold,  the  great  day  of  the  Lord  is  nigh  at  hand. 

For  the  day  coraeth  that  the  Lord  shall  utter  his  voice  out  of  heaven; 
the  heavens  shall  shake  and  the  earth  shall  tremble,  and  the  trump  of  God 
shall  sound  both  long  and  loud,  and  shall  say  to  the  sleeping  nations:  Ye 
saints  arise  and  live;  ye  sinners  stay  and  sleep  until  I  shall  call  again. 

Wherefore  gird  up  your  loins  lest  ye  be  found  among  the  wicked. 

Lift  up  your  voices  and  spare  not.  Call  upon  the  nations  to  repent, 
both  old  and  young,  both  bond  and  free,  saying:  Prepare  yourselves  for 
the  great  day  of  the  Lord: 

For  if  I,  who  am  a  man,  do  lift  up  my  voice  and  call  upon  you  to  re- 
pent, and  ye  hate  me,  what  will  ye  say  when  the  day  cometh  when  the 
thunders  shall  utter  their  voices  from  the  ends  of  the  earth,  speaking  to  the 
ears  of  all  that  live,  saying — Repent,  and  prepare  for  the  great  day  of  the 
Lord? 

Yea,  and  again,  when  the  lightnings  shall  streak  forth  from  the  east 
unto  the  west,  and  shall  utter  forth  their  voices  unto  all  that  live,  and 
make  the  ears  of  all  tingle  that  hear,  saying  these  words — Repent  ye,  for 
the  great  day  of  the  Lord  is  come? 

And  again,  the  Lord  shall  utter  his  voice  out  of  heaven,  saying:  Heark- 
en, O  ye  nations  of  the  earth,  and  hear  the  words  of  that  God  who  made 
you. 

O,  ye  nations  of  the  earth,  how  often  would  I  have  gathered  you  to- 
gether as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under  her  wings,  but  ye  would  not! 

How  oft  have  I  called  upon  you  by  the  mouth  of  my  servants,  and  by 
the  ministering  of  angels,  and  by  mine  own  voice,  and  by  the  voice  of 
thunderings,  and  by  the  voice  of  lightnings,  and  by  the  voice  of  tempests,  and 
by  the  voice  of  earthquakes,  and  great  hailstorms,  and  by  the  voice  of  fam- 
ines and  pestilences  of  every  kind,  and  by  the  great  sound  of  a  trump,  and 
by  the  voice  of  judgment,  and  by  the  voice  of  mercy  all  the  day  long,  and 
by  the  voice  of  glory  and  honor  and  the  riches  of  eternal  life,  and  would 
have  saved  you  with  an  everlasting  salvation,  but  ye  would  not! 

Behold  the  day  has  come,  when  the  cup  of  the  wrath  of  mine  indig- 
nation is  full. 

Behold,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  these  are  the  words  of  the  Lord 
your  God.  (Doc.  &  Cov.  43:17-27.) 

Now  this  is  a  warning  that  went  out  to  the  world.  They 
would  not  heed  it.  Returning  now  to  what  the  Lord  said  in  the 
preface  to  this  Book  of  Commandments,  I  will  read  some  more: 

And  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  they  who  go  forth,  bearing  these  tidings 
unto  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  to  them  is  power  given  to  seal  both  on 
earth  and  in  heaven,  the  unbelieving  and  rebellious; 


144  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8  Third  Dag 

Yea,  verily,  to  seal  them  up  unto  the  day  when  the  wrath  of  God  shall 
be  poured  out  upon  the  wicked  without  measure — 

Unto  the  day  when  the  Lord  shall  come  to  recompense  unto  every  man 
according  to  his  work,  and  measure  to  every  man  according  to  the  measure 
which  he  has  measured  to  his  fellow  man. 

Wherefore  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  the  ends  of  the  earth,  that 
all  that  will  hear  may  hear: 

Prepare  ye,  prepare  ye  for  that  which  is  to  come,  for  the  Lord  is  nigh; 

And  the  anger  of  the  Lord  is  kindled,  and  his  sword  is  bathed  in  heav- 
en, and  it  shall  fall  upon  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth.  (Doc.  6  Cov. 
1:8-13.) 

There  are  a  great  many  prophetic  sayings  that  were  given  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  recorded  in  this  book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  in  which  the  Lord  warned  this  world  of  the  cal- 
amities and  the  destruction,  the  wars  and  the  pestilence  that  would 
come  upon  them  if  they  refused  to  hearken  to  the  testimony  of 
these  humble  elders  of  Israel. 

Again  he  said: 

I,  the  Lord,  am  angry  with  the  wicked;  I  am  holding  my  Spirit  from 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth. 

I  have  sworn  in  my  wrath,  and  decreed  wars  upon  the  face  of  the  earth, 
and  the  wicked  shall  slay  the  wicked,  and  fear  shall  come  upon  every  man. 
(Doc.  &  Cov.  63:32,  33.) 

Now,  that  was  a  calamity  which  came  upon  the  world,  when 
the  Lord  decreed  that  he  would  withhold  his  spirit  from  the  inhabi- 
tants of  the  earth.  He  had  no  reference  to  the  Holy  Ghost,  be- 
cause they  never  had  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  but  he  had  ref- 
erence to  the  light  of  truth,  or  Spirit  of  Christ,  which  would 
lead  them  to  the  truth,  if  they  would  heed  it.  This  spirit  he  was 
withdrawing  from  them  because  of  their  wickedness  and  the  with- 
drawal of  his  spirit  would  bring  upon  them  these  calamities — the 
pestilences,  the  plagues,  .and  all  the  rest  of  it  that  is  mentioned 
here,  including  bloodshed,  and  war. 

Wickedness  Prevailing  in  the  World 

Today  we  find  this  world  torn  asunder;  wickedness  prevailing 
in  the  hearts  of  the  people,  distress  among  the  nations,  bloodshed 
such  as  the  world  has  never  seen  before.  I  am  going  to  be  bold 
enough  to  say  that  all  of  this  could  have  been  avoided;  it  would 
have  been  unnecessary,  if  the  inhabitants  of  the  world  had  heark- 
ened to  the  voice  of  the  elders  of  Israel  who  were  sent  to  them  with 
this  message  of  salvation,  and  which  they  refused  to  receive. 

Furthermore,  we  cry  for  peace;  we  are  called  upon  to  pray 
for  peace,  and  we  are  praying  for  peace.  I  have  never  had  very 
much  confidence  in  the  proclamation  or  the  request  that  was  made 
asking  the  people  of  this  country  to  pray  for  peace,  for  the  very 
good  reason  that  it  was  not  sincere.  We  cannot  pray  to  the  Lord 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


145 


and  say:  "Listen  to  our  cause,  bring  victory  to  us,  do  what  we 
want  you  to  do,  but  don't  ask  us  to  do  what  you  want  us  to  do." 

We  have  heard  from  quite  a  number  of  those  who  have  spoken 
in  this  conference  of  the  wickedness  that  prevails  throughout  the 
world,  the  wickedness  among  the  boys  who  have  gone  into  the 
armed  forces  of  ,the  country,  the  wickedness  of  the  people  who  are 
not  in  those  forces.  We  all  know  those  things  are  true,  that  im- 
morality is  rampant,  that  drunkennes,  and  the  filthy  use  of  to- 
bacco are  weakening  the  constitutions  of  those  who  go  out  to  fight, 
and  these  evils  are  also  among  those  not  in  the  armed  forces.  The 
world  is  full  of  evil. 

Bishop  Richards  called  attention  to  a  statement  made  in  a 
letter  from  one  of  his  boys  who  is  in  the  service.  I  had  a  like  com- 
munication from  one  of  my  boys.  He  was  only  eighteen  when  he 
was  sent  out,  he  did  not  know  anything  about  the  world. 

I  want  to  say  to  you  that  it  was  a  great  regret  to  me  that  he 
had  to  go  and  learn  something  about  the  ways  of  the  world,  and 
I  regret  that  your  boys  had  to  go  and  learn  it,  such  things  as  they 
have  been  forced  to  learn.  This  boy  wrote  home  several  months 
ago  and  said,  after  referring  to  some  of  the  things  which  he  had 
witnessed:   "I  have  lost  faith  in  humanity." 

The  Keeping  of  God's  Commandments  Necessary 
to  Bring  Peace 

So  we  cry  for  peace,  we  are  asked  to  pray  for  peace,  but  who 
is  willing  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  that  we  might 
have  peace?  Now,  you  ask  yourselves,  you  brethren:  in  your  pray- 
ing are  you  sincere?  In  your  asking  for  peace,  are  you  willing  to 
keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord?  Do  you  keep  the  Sabbath 
day  holy?  Do  you  pay  your  honest  tithing?  Do  you  attend  to  these 
other  duties  that  have  been  mentioned  here  so  many  times? 

When  I  think  of  the  people  of  this  country,  or  any  other  of 
these  countries,  asking  the  Lord  for  help,  and  at  the  same  time 
ignoring  every  commandment  that  he  has  given  them,  I  wonder 
how  we  can  even  hope  for  peace.  We  could  have  had  peace  long 
ago,  and  thousands  of  lives  could  have  been  saved,  if  the  people 
bad  humbled  themselves,  and  had  been  willing  to  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord  so  he  could  fight  their  battles.  But  this 
they  .were  not  willing  to  do. 

Now  I  shall  repeat  what  one  of  these  brethren  said  who  spoke 
before  me.  The  Lord  said  to  the  members  of  this  Church,  in  an 
early  day,  that  because  of  their  transgressions  trouble  came  upon 
them,  and  I  quote: 

They  were  slow  to  hearken  unto  the  voice  of  the  Lord  their  Goa; 
therefore,  the  Lord  their  God  is  slow  to  hearken  unto  their  prayers,  to 
answer  them  in  the  day  of  their  trouble. 
.  .."      .In  the  day  of  their  peace  they  esteemed  lightly  my  counsel;  but,  in 


146  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  8 


Third  Dap 


the  day  of  their  trouble,  of  necessity  they  feel  after  me.   (Doc.  &  Cov. 
101:7-8.) 

Well,  the  people  of  this  nation  could  have  felt  after  the  Lord; 
we  could  have  gone  before  him,  and  could  have  placed  our  peti- 
tions before  him.  And  he  would  have  heard  our  prayers.  If  we 
had  done  this  in  the  spirit  of  faith  and  humility,  and  the  determin- 
ation in  our  hearts  to  keep  his  commandments,  then,  I  repeat,  he 
would  have  heard  our  prayers,  and  many  lives  would  have  been 
spared;  I  am  sure  of  it  for  he  would  have  come  to  our  aid  and 
would  have  fought  our  battles. 

One  more  passage.  This  is  from  the  same  section — 101 — of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

My  indignation  is  soon  to  be  poured  out  without  measure  upon  all 
nations;  and  this  will  I  do  when  the  cup  of  iniquity  is  full.  (Doc.  &  Cov. 
101:11.) 

May  we  humble  ourselves,  put  our  houses  in  order,  and  our 
lives  in  harmony  with  the  truth,  that  we  may  receive  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord,  I  humbly  pray,  in  tb~  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  WILLIAM  H.  REEDER,  JR. 

President  of  the  New  England  Mission 

Did  you  ever  have  a  moment  in  your  life  when  you  felt  like 
you  had  been  shot  at  and  just  missed?  I  could  not  have  been  more 
startled  when  President  McKay  stepped  down  to  speak  to  me  a 
moment  ago,  than  if  I  had  been  shot  at.  I  was  surprised  indeed. 

I  am  happy  to  be  here,  my  brethren.  These  conferences  are 
glorious.  We  derive  great  strength  and  encouragement  from  what 
we  hear  from  our  leaders.  I  feel  that  in  this  conference  we  have 
received  some  plain,  timely,  straight-forward,  and  important  in- 
structions that  ought  to  be  a  challenge  to  every  one  of  us,  a  charge 
imposing  responsibility  to  do  better  in  the  future  than  we  have 
done  in  the  past. 

I  am  happy  to  be  serving  as  President  of  the  New  England 
Mission.  We  are  making  some  progress.  The  Church  has  been 
good  to'  us.  Within  the  time  of  my  service  we  have  acquired  five 
beautiful  properties,  which  our  people  are  using  as  chapels,  and  in 
addition  to  that,  we  have  a  magnificent  home  for  the  mission. 

We  are  in  the  New  England  states  to  stay.  What  we  are 
doing  is  giving  evidences  of  the  stability  of  our  mission  organiza- 
tion. The  Lord  has  been  good  to  us  because  he  has  blessed  us  abun- 
dantly. The  people  are  more  faithful  than  ever  before.  They  are 
anxious  to  serve  the  Lord,  and  are  sincere,  devout  members  of  the 
Church.  Above  all  they  are  not  afraid  now  to  let  people  know  that 
they  are  members  of  the  Church. 

The  president  of  the  Cambridge  Branch  recently  made  a  de- 
posit in  a  bank,  and  he  came  to  me  to  get  an  authority,  so  the  bank 


ELDER  WILLIAM  H.  REEDER,  JR 


147 


would  know  he  had  a  right  to  receive  and  draw  checks,  and  so 
forth.  I  said:  "How  did  you  make  the  deposit?" 

He  said,  "Mormon  Church,  Cambridge  Branch." 

That  is  the  way  the  people  in  the  New  England  Mission  feel. 

For  some  unknown  reason  I  was  impressed  when  I  left  the 
hotel  room  this  morning  to  pick  up  a  sheet  of  paper  on  which  is 
a  motto  for  the  New  England  Mission.  We  found  it  in  the  1st 
book  of  Corinthians,  16th  chapter  and  13th  verse,  and  I  am  going 
to  read  this  motto  and  the  few  words  that  have  been  said  about  it. 

"Watch  ye,  stand  fast  in  the  faith,  quit  you  like  men,  be 
strong" — this  was  addressed  by  Paul  to  the  Corinthian  Church, 
but  it  rings  a  clarion  message  to  us,  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

It  contains  four  distinct  statements,  each  important  and  all 
necessary  for  faithfulness. 

1.  "Watch  ye."  We  must  keep  our  eyes  and  ears  open,  be 
alert  to  learn  of  him  and  of  his  ways;  give  heed  not  only  to  his 
word  as  contained  in  the  scriptures,  but  to  instructions  and  counsel 
of  his  servants.  Words  and  actions  must  be  guarded  so  as  not  to 
injure  others;  thoughts  and  habits  be  controlled  and  regulated  so 
as  to  impress  others  by  example  that  there  is  substance  to  his  way 
of  life. 

2.  "Stand  fast  in  the  Faith."  Faith  in  Jesus  Christ,  his  life 
and  mission  is  essential  to  salvation,  and  devout  Christians  vehem- 
ently assert  that  it  is  essential  to  lasting  peace.  It  is  the  better  way, 
not  only  to  eternal  life  but  to  good  neighborly  living.  Steadfast- 
ness in  our  faith  will  impel  us  to  broadcast  its  truths,  and  even 
to  die  for  it;  stability  therein  is  bound  to  influence  others. 

3.  "Quit  you  like  men."  To  acquit  ourselves  like  real  men 
is  a  solemn  duty  of  all  of  us  in  all  the  affairs  of  life.  Honorable 
men  are  without  guile,  do  not  injure  others,  lead  exemplary  lives, 
and  seek  to  promote  truth  and  righteousness.  Cowards  slink  from 
responsibility  and  accomplish  nothing  worthwhile.  To  manfully 
acquit  ourselves,  we  must  lead  lives  that  are  constructive  and  con- 
sistent with  the  standards  and  practices  of  his  Church. 

4.  "Be  strong."  This  is  a  summary  of  all  virtues.  Strong  men 
and  women  are  needed  everywhere,  in  the  Nation,  the  Church, 
the  neighborhood.  To  them  we  look  for  guidance,  for  leadership. 
Sturdy,  powerful  witnesses  of  the  Savior,  of  his  word  and  work, 
are  required  to  lead  men  in  his  path  of  truth  and  righteousness. 
Therefore,  be  strong  in  the  faith  and  valiant  for  the  truth. 

On  the  train  coming  over  from  Chicago  I  visited  with  a 
colonel  in  the  army  and  with  a  member  of  the  stake  over  which  I 
used  to  preside.  During  the  conversation  I  heard  this  member  tell 
the  officer  that  he  would  just  as  leave  fail  to  pay  his  taxes  as  to  fail 
to  pay  his  tithing.  The  colonel  was  startled.  The  member  said:  "If 
I  failed  to  pay  my  taxes,  I  would  lose  my  property,  and  if  I  fail  to 
pay  my  tithing,  I'll  lose  the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  and  I  need  them." 


148  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  8 


Third  Day 


Then  he  said:  "I  believe  in  a  personal  God,  who  has  a  coun- 
tenance, and  when  I  kneel  down  to  say  my  prayers,  I  want  to  be 
able  to  look  my  God,  my  Father  in  heaven  squarely  in  the  face, 
and  ask  him  to  bless  me.  If  I  did  not  pay  my  tithing,  I  would 
feel  I  had  not  done  my  share,  and  I  could  not  look  him  squarely 
in  the  face."  That  is  the  kind  of  valiance,  my  brethren,  that  makes 
good  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  pray  that  we  may  be  true  Latter-day  Saints,  earnest  and 
anxious  to  accept  the  instructions  that  are  given  to  us  by  our  lead- 
ers. Their  counsels  are  wise,  and  we  will  be  blessed  and  more 
fortunate  if  we  accept  them  than  if  we  do  not.  I  pray  the  Lord  to  pre- 
serve their  lives  in  health  and  happiness,  so  that  for  many  years 
to  come  they  may  continue  to  give  us  the  straightforward  and 
forceful  instructions  that  we  have  received  in  this  conference,  and 
that  we  may  be  good  missionaries,  unafraid  to  preach  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  to  those  who  have  not  come  in  contact  with  it,  I 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  played  an  organ  solo,  "Kamenoi 
Ostrow" — by  Rubenstein. 

ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren,  as  I  look  over  this  congregation,  and  as  I  have 
been  sitting  here  this  afternoon,  impressed,  as  I  know  we  all  have 
been,  in  listening  to  those  strains  of  sweet  music,  I  have  wondered 
just  how  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  will  finally  take  root  in  the 
hearts  of  the  children  of  men  and  how  peace  will  finally  come. 

Teaching  of  Jesus  to  His  Apostles 

I  would  like  to  read  a  few  verses  from  the  words  of  the  Savior, 
which  are  found  in  the  14th  chapter  of  John.  Some  of  his  apostles 
had  asked  him  a  number  of  questions;  they  were  troubled;  they 
no  doubt  had  many  things  in  their  day  to  trouble  their  thinking. 
They  did  not  quite  understand  his  divine  ministry  and  how  the 
kingdom  of  God  would  come,  and  so  a  number  of  questions  were 
asked.  So  we  find  Jesus  saying  to  them: 

Let  not  your  heart  be  troubled:  ye  believe  in  God,  believe  also  in  me. 
In  my  Father's  house  are  many  mansions:  if  it  were  not  so,  I  would  have 
told  you.  I  go  to  prepare  a  place  for  you.  And  if  I  go  and  prepare  a  place 
for  you,  I  will  come  again,  and  receive  you  unto  myself;  that  where  I  am, 
there  ye  may  be  also.   And  whither  I  go  ye  know,  and  the  way  ye  know. 

Thomas  saith  unto  him,  Lord,  we  know  not  whither  thou  goest;  and 
how  can  we  know  the  way? 

Then  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  him: 

...  I  am  the  way,  the  truth,  and  the  life:  no  man  cometh  unto  the 
Father,  but  by  me.  If  ye  had  known  me,  ye  should  have  known  my  Father 
also:  and  from  henceforth  ye  know  him,  and  have  seen  him. 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 


149 


Philip  saith  unto  him,  Lord,  shew  us  the  Father,  and  it  sufficeth  us. 

Jesus  saith  unto  him,  Have  I  been  so  long  time  with  you,  and  yet  hast 
thou  not  known  me,  Philip?  he  that  hath  seen  me  hath  seen  the  Father;  and 
how  sayest  thou  then,  Shew  us  the  Father?  Believest  thou  not  that  I  am  in 
the  Father,  and  the  Father  in  me?  the  words  that  I  speak  unto  you  I  speak 
not  of  myself:  but  the  Father  that  dwelleth  in  me,  he  doeth  the  works. 

Believe  me  that  I  am  in  the  Father,  and  the  Father  in  me:  or  else  believe 
me  for  the  very  works'  sake. 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  He  that  believeth  on  me,  the  works  that 
I  do  shall  he  do  also;  and  greater  works  than  these  shall  he  do;  because  I 
go  unto  my  Father. 

And  whatsoever  ye  shall  ask  in  my  name  that  will  I  do,  that  the  Father 
may  be  glorified  in  the  Son. 

If  we  shall  ask  anything  in  my  name,  I  will  do  it. 

If  ye  love  me,  keep  my  commandments, 

And  I  will  pray  the  Father,  and  he  shall  give  you  another  Comforter, 
that  he  may  abide  with  you  for  ever; 

Even  the  Spirit  of  truth;  whom  the  world  cannot  receive,  because  it 
seeth  him  not,  neither  knoweth  him:  but  ye  know  him;  for  he  dwelleth  with 
you,  and  shall  be  in  you. 

I  will  not  leave  you  comfortless:   I  will  come  to  you. 

Yet  a  little  while,  and  the  world  seeth  me  no  more;  but  ye  see  me:  be- 
cause I  live,  ye  shall  live  also. 

At  that  day  ye  shall  know  that  I  am  in  my  Father,  and  ye  in  me,  and 
I  in  you. 

He  that  hath  my  commandments,  and  keepeth  them,  he  it  is  that  loveth 
me,  and  he  that  loveth  me  shall  be  loved  of  my  Father,  and  I  will  love  him, 
and  will  manifest  myself  to  him.   (John  14:1-21.) 

It  is  ^  great  promise,  my  brethren.  It  does  offer  the  way  and 
the  means  by  which  we  may  live  in  harmony  with  those  injunc- 
tions that  we  have  received  here  in  this  conference. 

The  Responsibility  of  Mission  Presidents 

I  recently  had  the  privilege  of  visiting  the  North  Central 
States  Mission.  I  would  like  to  say  just  a  word  or  two  regarding 
those  who  preside  over  these  missions.  I  never  realized  before 
what  a  tremendous  responsibility  it  is.  The  men  who  are  called 
to  preside  in  these  missions  must  take  the  young  boys  and  girls 
who  come  to  them  and  help  them  make  their  adjustments.  They 
are  called  from  all  over  the  Church,  they  are  not  trained  in  the 
same  homes,  nor  by  the  same  home  standards;  they  are  not  alike 
in  their  education,  nor  in  their  gospel  training.  Their  temperaments 
and  dispositions  are  different,  and  yet  these  mission  presidents, 
with  their  wives  who  stand  by  their  sides,  take  these  young  girls 
and  boys  and  help  them  to  adjust;  and  the  marvel,  my  brethren, 
is  that  they  do  adjust,  and  very  quickly  do  they  get  the  spirit  of 
their  mission,  and  do  a  marvelous  work.  This  is  not  a  trite  ex- 
pression. It  is  a  reality. 

They  make  friends,  and  are  invited  into  their  homes;  they 
bear  their  testimonies,  and  people  are  responding  to  those  testi- 
monies, and  are  impressed  with  the  majesty  and  the  bigness  of 
their  message.   Little  by  little  this  work  in  which  you  and  I  are 


150  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  S  Third  Day 


engaged  is  growing  and  gradually  spreading.  As  we  think  about 
it  in  terms  of  our  present  day  conditions,  we  wonder  sometimes 
how  the  little  stone  that  was  cut  out  of  the  mountain  without  hands 
will  eventually  fill  the  earth;  but  if  we  will  just  look  back,  it  is 
not  very  long  when  we  had  in  sections,  for  example  like  California, 
New  York,  Denver,  Chicago,  just  missions,  just  small  branches; 
today  we  have  large  stakes  of  Zion  in  all  of  these  places. 

Visit  to  A  Small  Branch 

Throughout  the  mission  fields  the  branches  are  growing.  I 
realize  with  you  that  there  is  a  slowing  up  now  because  of  war 
conditions,  because  of  lack  of  missionary  help,  but  even  with  that 
lack  there  is  a  growth  that  is  heartening,  and  it  gives  to  you  and 
me  assurances  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  this  message  of 
Jesus — the  good  tidings,  is  taking  root  in  the  hearts  of  the  children 
of  men,  and  they  are  translating  these  principles  of  truth  into  their 
lives  and  living  them. 

We  had  the  good  fortune  to  visit  a  little  branch  a  way  up 
on  the  south  shores  of  the  Lake  of  the  Woods — just  a  few  Scandi- 
navian Saints.  They  had  not  had  the  elders  there  for  a  long  time.  They 
are  carrying  on  by  themselves,  they  have  built  their  own  chapel, 
and  when  we  entered  that  little  chapel,  President  and  Sister  Kill- 
pack,  and  Sister  Young  and  myself,  we  found  a  neat,  clean  chapel. 
We  found  a  branch  of  faithful  Latter-day  Saints,  a  way  off  from 
everybody.  The  nearest  doctor,  we  were  told  is  twenty-five  miles 
away,  and  yet  they  were  carrying  on  in  the  ministry  of  the  Church, 
and  were  living  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

The  chapel  itself  is  a  credit  to  the  Church,  made  of  rustic 
lumber,  the  benches  are  crude,  with  pine  floor,  but  just  as  clean 
and  neat  as  it  could  be.  Around  the  chapel  were  little  flower  boxes 
made  of  rustic  pine,  decorating  that  lovely  place.  I  thought  to  my- 
self: "What  a  fine  example  of  beautification." 

Here  is  the  Church  in  action,  away  out  in  these  little  outlying 
places.  One  of  the  brethren  in  his  prayer  the  other  day,  thanked 
the  Lord  that  we  were  here  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains.  We  are 
grateful  for  that,  but  this  Church  is  no  longer  a  Church  of  the  tops 
of  the  mountains.  It  is  a  Church  of  the  plains,  it  is  a  Church  of 
the  islands  of  the  sea,  it  is  a  Church  for  the  world,  and  every- 
where we  go  where  the  message  of  Jesus  has  been  taught,  we  see 
the  reflection  vof  these  truths,  and  men  and  women  are  living  them, 
and  are  reflecting  them  in  their  lives,  and  that  is  what  we  found 
in  the  mission  field. 

Testimony  of  A  Convert 

In  one  of  the  meetings  of  the  missionaries,  with  the  local  mis- 
sionaries, one  of  the  sisters  who  has  been  a  member  of  the  Church 
for  only  about  two  years,  and  who  has  now  been  called  as  one  of 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG  151 

the  local  missionaries,  bore  her  testimony.  Her  husband  is  not  a 
member  of  the  Church.  She  comes  from  a  family  of  refinement,  her 
associates  are  people  of  education,  and  she  herself  impresses  one 
as  being  a  woman  of  culture  and  of  great  faith.  In  bearing  her 
testimony  she  related  this  experience.  She  said:  "My  associates, 
many  of  my  friends  do  not  subscribe  to  the  things  that  I  am  trying 
to  live.  We  are  frequently  invited  out  in  company  where  smoking 
is  indulged  in,  and  where  cocktails  are  served.  There  is  no  moral 
issue  with  my  friends  regarding  these  things,  and  it  does  provoke 
a  challenge  with  me,  my  husband  not  being  a  member  of  the 
Church.  The  other  evening  we  were  at  a  dinner  party  and  cock- 
tails were  served.  I  pushed  mine  to  the  side,  and  my  friend  sit- 
ting next  to  me  said:  'Aren't  you  going  to  drink  your  cocktail?' 
I  told  her  no,  and  she  said:  'What's  the  matter  with  you?'  I  said: 
Nothing's  the  matter  with  me,  I  am  living  a  great  principle,  and  I 
would  not  let  a  little  cocktail  rob  me  of  the  strength  and  power  of 
living  that  principle." 

That  is  all  that  was  said  regarding  that.  I  thought  to  myself: 
"Thank  God  for  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  that  is  translating  itself 
into  the  lives  of  people  who  will  but  put  themselves  in  a  position 
to  permit  it." 

The  Faith  of  A  Soldier 

Another  instance.  In  one  of  our  meetings  in  Minneapolis  there 
came  into  our  meeting  an  officer  of  the  air  force  and  his  wife.  I 
did  not  recognize  them  until  at  the  close  of  the  meeting  they  came 
up  and,  lo  and  behold,  it  was  a  boy  from  my  own  stake.  In  the 
evening  at  St.  Paul,  where  we  held  another  meeting  he  was  called 
upon  to  speak,  and  bore  a  fervent  testimony.  The  humility  of  it 
was  impressive.  But  here  is  the  lovely  thing  about  it,  my  brethren: 
That  boy  had  been  over  in  Europe,  in  combat  service,  I  don't  know 
how  many  missions  he  had  had  over  Germany,  but  on  his  last  mis- 
sion he  was  severely  wounded,  and  his  copilot  had  to  take  over. 
His  plane  was  damaged,  but  fortunately  they  were  able  to  get 
back  to  England.  The  boy  was  hospitalized,  and  finally  sent  over 
to  this  country,  where  he  convalesced  in  the  Bushnell  Hospital. 
His  leg  is  still  stiff,  and  he  will  never  again  be  able  to  go  back 
into  combat  service.  He  is  now  teaching,  training.  After  his  re- 
turn, while  he  was  in  Bushnell,  he  came  down  home  one  night  to 
visit  his  worthy  father,  Bishop  James  W.  Vance  of  Alpine,  one  of 
the  stalwarts  of  my  stake.  We  invited  him  into  our  home.  I  had 
recommended  that  boy  for  the  mission  field,  and  so  I  said  to  him, 
"Paul,  tell  me,  how  did  you  adjust  yourself?  You  had  been  out 
preaching  the  gospel  of  peace,  and  on  your  return  you  were  in- 
ducted into  the.  service;  you  went  over  Germany,  perhaps  over  the 
very  land  where  you  had  labored.  How  did  you  make  the  adjust- 
ment?" 


152  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  8  Third  Dag 


He  said:  "Brother  Young,  I  learned  one  thing.  As  I  flew 
over  Germany  I  felt  in  my  heart  that  I  was  shooting  down  bombers 
and  not  people,  that  I  was  bombing  installations,  and  not  people. 
I  kept  that  uppermost  in  my  mind,  and  I  believe  the  Lord  has  helped 
me  to  preserve  that  attitude  in  my  military  service. 

He  bore  testimony  of  that  in  our  meeting,  thanking  the  Lord 
for  the  faith  that  had  stood  him  in  hand. 

The  gospel,  my  brethren,  does  translate  itself  into  the  lives 
of  bur  people  if  we  will  permit  it.  It  is  for  us.  These  injunctions 
that  we  have  had  given  us  in  this  conference,  they  mean  for  us 
strength  and  power,  and  they  mean  for  us  the  power  and  ability 
to  make  our  lives  real,  harmonizing  with  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  and  only  in  living  it  may  we  be  able  to  do  that. 

A  Missionary  Incident 

I  bear  you  my  testimony,  my  brethren.  I  am  grateful  for  the 
testimony  that  I  have  of  this  work.  I  cannot  with  you  go  out  and 
prove  its  divinity — no  man  can  do  that — we  may  offer  every  in- 
ducement and  do  everything  in  our  power  to  make  people  feel  that 
our  message  is  scriptural,  but  when  it  comes  to  the  last  analysis 
of  the  thing,  it  is  the  testimony  that  is  in  the  human  heart  that  bears 
witness  of  the  divinity  of  this  work. 

While  laboring  as  a  missionary  in  England,  over  thirty-eight 
years  ago,  one  of  our  investigators,  a  whole  family  of  them,  in  fact, 
the  mother  being  the  leader,  said,  "Brother  Young,  we  have  found 
that  your  doctrine  is  scriptural,  we  believe  in  that,  but  if  you  can 
convince  us  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  that  he  saw 
God  and  that  Jesus  Christ  talked  with  him,  we  will  be  baptized." 

"Sister  McManus,"  we  said  to  her,'  "we  cannot  do  that  or 
prove  that  to  you,  but  if  you  would  know  the  will  of  the  Father, 
if  you  would  know  of  the  truthfulness  of  our  message,  you,  your- 
self must  do  the  will  of  the  Father,  and  you  shall  know.  'He  that 
will  doeth  the  will  of  the  Father  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether 
it  be  of  God  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself.'  "    .  - 

We  bore  that  testimony  to  her,  and  she  made  it  a  matter  of 
prayer,  and  later  she  and  her  family  were  baptized.  That  is  the 
way  it  works,  my  brethren.  It  is  through  faith  in  God,  it  is  through 
testimony  that  this  work  will  be  carried  forward,  and  it  is  the  living 
of  the  gospel,  and  the  testimony  that  will  finally  bring  peace  into  the 
human  heart,  and  make  possible  the  establishment  of  the  kingdom 
of  God  in  the  earth.  May  it  speedily  come,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BO  WEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Confusion  seems  admittedly  to  be  the  dominant  characteristic 
of  our  times.  There  is  confusion  of  procedures,  a  baffling  contrar- 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


153 


iety  as  to  what  ought  to  be  done  and  how  to  do"  it.  There  seems  to 
be  agreement  about  only  one  thing,  namely,  that  the  world's  af- 
fairs are  terribly  messed  up.  But  there  is  no  agreement  about  the 
causes  for  the  sorry  condition,  nor  the  remedy.  Men  confess,  almost 
it  seems  with  pride,  that  they  don't  know  what  they  ought  to  be- 
lieve. They  are  bewildered  and  overwhelmed  with  a  sense  of  futility. 

Testing  Present  Conditions  by  Principle  of  Right  or  Wrong 

One  thing  seems  clear:  our  perplexity  grows  out  of  a  failure 
of  vision — of  penetrating  insight.  We  get  ourselves  all  tangled 
up  in  a  maze  of  superficialities  and  mistake  consequences  for  causes. 
We  tell  ourselves  over  and  over  again  that  life  in  this  day  has  be- 
come very  complex;  that  it  is  not  simple  and  elementary  any  more 
as  it  once  was;  and  that  our  outlook  and  approaches  to  the  prob- 
lems of  the  day  must  take  on  the  same  complexities  as  the  intri- 
cate web  of  mechanisms  we  have  woven  about  ourselves. 

It  may  be  granted  that  with  our  great  increase  in  population, 
our  shifting  over  from  simple  rural  life  to  concentrations  of  great 
numbers  in  industrial  centers,  the  consequent  change  from  self 
direction  to  supervised  direction,  the  increasing  degree  in  which 
the  free  practice  of  individual  convenience  impinges  upon  the  com- 
fort and  convenience  of  others;  the  impact  upon  our  lives  of 
changed  conditions  resulting  from  inventions,  transportation  and 
communication  facilities — it  may  be  granted,  I  say,  that  all  these 
conspire  to  introduce  an  apparent  complexity  into  our  organized 
lives.  But  I  wonder  if,  after  all,  the  differences  are  not  largely 
superficial  and  mechanistic  rather  than  fundamental. 

Are  there  not,  in  reality,  underlying,  universal  principles  with 
reference  to  which  all  issues  must  be  resolved  whether  the  society  be 
simple  or  complex  in  its  mechanical  organization?  It  seems  to  me 
we  could  relieve  ourselves  of  most  of  the  bewilderment  which  so 
unsettles  and  distracts  us  by  subjecting  each  situation  to  the  simple 
test  of  right  and  wrong.  Right  and  wrong  as  moral  principles  do 
not  change.  They  are  applicable  and  reliable  determinants  whether 
the  situations  with  which  we  deal  are  simple  or  complicated.  There 
is  always  a  right  and  a  wrong  to  every  question  which  requires  our 
solution.  We  might  be  saved  a  lot  of  misery  and  discontent  and 
disputation  in  this  world  if  we  just  stopped  to  apply  the  simple  test, 
"what  is  the  right  of  this  thing"  before  we  moved  into  action  con- 
cerning it.  By  thus  getting  down  to  the  root  of  the  matter  we 
should  have  reduced  the  problem  to  its  simplest  terms  and  it  would 
not  matter  very  much  whether  it  was  crusted  over  with  a  simple 
or  a  complex  layer  of  incidental  elements.  They  would  all  have 
to  yield  to  the  basic  law  of  right. 

An  Illustration  from  Paul's  Missionary  Experience 

I  think  I  can  illustrate  how  basic  issues  are  buried  under  a 
cover  of  superficialities  by  reference  to  an  experience  in  the  life  of 


154  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  8  Third  Day 


Paul.  In  the  course  of  his  missionary  journeys,  he  came  to  Ephesus 
where  he  found  certain  poorly  instructed  believers.  He  taught  in 
the  synagogue  for  three  months  \tfhen,  because  of  opposition,  he 
separated  his  disciples,  and  they  went  their  ways  teaching  for  a 
period  of  two  years  with  such  effect  that  the  record  says:  "All 
they  which  dwelt  in  Asia  heard  the  word  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ." 
This  brought  the  Christian  message  squarely  up  against  the  idol- 
atry of  the  Ephesians  with  the  result  that  there  was  a  great  con- 
version from  idolatry.  Says  the  account  in  Acts  19:23-29: 

And  the  same  time  there  arose  no  small  stir  about  that  way.  For  a 
certain  man  named  Demetrius,  a  silversmith,  which  made  silver  shrines  for 
Diana,  brought  no  small  gain  unto  the  craftsmen;  whom  he  called  together 
with  the  workmen  of  like  occupation,  and  said,  Sirs,  ye  know  that  by  this 
craft  we  have  our  wealth.  Moreover  ye  see  and  hear,  that  not  alone  at 
Ephesus,  but  almost  throughout  all  Asia,  this  Paul  hath  persuaded  and 
turned  away  much  people,  saying  that  they  be  no  gods,  which  are  made 
with  hands:  So  that  not  only  this  our  craft  is  in  danger  to  be  set  at  nought; 
but  also  that  the  temple  of  the  great  goddess  Diana  should  be  despised,  and 
her  magnificence  should  be  destroyed,  whom  all  Asia  and  the  world  wor- 
shipped. And  when  they  heard  these  sayings  they  were  full  of  wrath. 
.  .  .  And  the  whole  city  was  filled  with  confusion. 

Now,  the  fundamental  issue,  and  the  only  issue,  was  between 
the  teachings  of  Jesus  and  the  pagan  religion  of  the  Ephesians.  But 
that  issue  was  completely  buried  under  the  furore  engendered  by 
a  purely  incidental  consequence.  Paul  was  teaching  the  way  of 
life,  a  thing  of  transcendent  importance  to  all  the  race  of  men,  the 
future  of  the  world.  With  the  purely  collateral  consequence  to  the 
business  of  a  few  silversmiths  and  art  craftsmen  he  had  no  concern. 

But  the  incident  was  not  decided  on  the  merits  of  the  respec- 
tive doctrines  concerning  the  souls  and  destiny  of  men.  So  far  as 
immediate  results  were  concerned  a  superficial  materialism  com- 
pletely smothered  and  took  out  of  the  reckoning  the  fundamental 
moral  and  spiritual  issue  involved.  For  Paul's  companions  were 
taken  into  custody,  and  when  he  would  have  gone  publicly  to  their 
defense,  he  was  restrained  by  friends  but  for  which  restraint  his 
life  likely  would  have  been  taken. 

Application  to  Present-day  Conditions 

In  one  way  or  another  the  process  illustrated  in  this  incident  has 
been  repeating  itself  throughout  history.  Every  would-be  world 
conquerer  from  Alexander  on  down  and  almost  every  empire 
builder,  too,  for  that  matter,  has  pursued  his  course  in  total  dis- 
regard of  the  question  of  what  is  right.  They  find  it  easy  to  ob- 
scure the  moral  issue  by  burying  it  deep  under  an  overburden  of 
casuistries.  It  is  easy  for  the  powerful  aggressor  to  say  that  his 
country  is  denied  access  to  raw  materials;  that  it  is  overcrowded 
and  must  have  Lebensraum,  an  outlet  for  its  over-congested  popu- 
lation; free  and  open  lanes  of  commerce,  and  to  give  these  and  a 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 


155 


thousand  other  specious  reasons  for  his  course.  These  are  made 
to  justify  the  ruthless  overpowering  and  destruction  of  weak 
neighboring  states  if  perchance  they  fail  to  bow  to  the  conqueror's 
w  ll  or  permit  themselves  to  be  absorbed  into  his  ambitious  design. 
A  color  of  righteousness  may  be  given  the  whole  monstrous  scheme 
by  pointing  out  the  virtue  of  the  ultimate  objective — to  bring  a 
larger  good  to  his  people  and  perchance  also  alleged  benefits  to  his 
conquered  and  plundered  neighbors,  just  as  Demetrius  could  justify 
his  inciting  the  mob  against  Paul  by  pointing  to  the  threat  of  his 
teachings  to  their  accustomed  means  of  making  a  livelihood. 

However  impressive  the  array  of  justifying  reasons  may  be, 
when  they  are  brushed  away  the  simple  question  left  is  whether 
the  powerful  have  a  right  to  crush  the  weak  even  to  bring  added 
benefits  to  them.  To  this  the  conscience  of  humanity  must  answer 
with  a  resounding  "no!"  If  aggressors  were  willing  to  let  the  right 
of  the  thing  be  the  final  determiner  there  would  be  no  wars. 

Employment  of  Evil  Means  Inconsistent 

There  is  likewise  a  companion  evil  to  the  one  just  spoken  of, 
just  as  reprehensible,  though  perhaps  not  quite  so  clearly  recog- 
nized. It  is  the  case  of  a  powerful  state,  apprehending  attack  from 
another  one,  casting  about  for  defensive  means.  It  conceives  that 
its  security  would  be  best  promoted  if  it  possessed  a  strategic  point 
owned  by  another  state.  In  the  interest  of  its  security  it  takes 
by  force  what  it  wants  from  its  unwilling  but  powerless  neighbor 
though  the  latter  has  to  be  mercilessly  crushed  in  the  process.  The 
conqueror  justifies  itself  and  is  justified  by  its  apologists  upon  the 
plea  of  its  own  necessity.  The  basic  immorality  of  the  matter  is 
conveniently  ignored.  It  is  as  if  a  man  about  to  be  killed  by  a 
thug  perceives  that  by  liquidating  his  defenseless  but  innocent 
neighbor  he  can  save  his  own  skin.  So  far  as  the  morality  of  the 
thing  is  concerned,  he  would  be  as  fully  justified  as  would  the 
overpowering  state. 

In  defense  of  such  courses  it  is  sometimes  argued  that  where 
the  objective  is  good,  the  end  to  be  achieved  worthy,  the  means  em- 
ployed to  attain  it  are  justified,  however  bad  in  themselves  they 
may  be.  The  idea  is  crystallized  in  the  saying:  "The  end  justifies 
the  means."  It  is  a  monstrously  false  doctrine.  If  this  is  a  moral 
universe,  as  I  believe  it  to  be,  no  methods  for  effecting  change, 
however  desirable  the  end  sought,  can  properly  be  resorted  to  which 
are  not  in  themselves  consistent  with  that  end.  To  employ  violence, 
oppressive  coercion,  cruelty,  injustice  for  the  accomplishment  of 
desired  ends  is  to  set  loose  forces  of  evil  which  must  inevitably 
weaken  and,  to  a  degree  at  least,  nullify  those  ends.  In  the  process 
of  achievement  they  lose  their  moral  power.  We  see  this  truth  ex- 
emplified almost  every  day.  The  employment  of  evil  means  to 


156  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8  Third  Day 


achieve  allegedly  worthy  ends  threatens  to  destroy  the  efforts  for 
lasting  peace  which  are  so  much  in  the  public  notice  today. 

A  Plan  to  Bring  Peace 

As  nations  indulge  in  such  immoral  practices  as  we  have  been 
talking  about,  so  do  individuals  and  groups  and  organized  bodies 
in  their  relations  between  and  among  themselves,  and  with  conse- 
quent disorders.  If  individuals  in  their  dealings  with  each  other  sub- 
jected them  to  the  test  of  what  is  right  and  abided  the  result,  there 
would  be  little  opportunity  for  ill  will  or  strife.  If  groups  or  organ- 
izations seeking  advantage  to  themselves  against  other  groups  or 
organizations  would  sit  down  together  each  willing  to  subordinate 
self-interest  in  the  search  for  the  right,  and  be  controlled  by  it 
when  found,  there  would  be  no  warfare  between  or  among  them. 
Men  submit  their  differences  to  the  judgment  and  decision  of  a  court 
merely  because  they  are  too  childish  and  immature  to  sit  down  to- 
gether and  agree  on  what  is  right.  They  are  in  far  better  position 
to  arrive  at  the  right  than  any  court  is  because  they  know  all  the 
facts,  whereas  the  court  never  can  have  that  complete  knowledge. 
The  judge  is  limited  by  the  information  which  a  trial  brings  to  him. 
If  men  earnestly  wanted  their  differences  settled  on  the  moral  basis 
of  right,  there  would  be  little  work  for  courts. 

Submission  of  differences,  however,  to  the  judgment  of  some 
disinterested  body,  such  as  a  court,  is,  of  course,  a  long  advance  over 
the  stage  when  men  settled  their  private  differences  by  fighting 
it  out — a  resort  to  physical  force.  Any  semblance  of  orderly  society 
could  not  exist  on  the  basis  of  private  redress  of  grievances.  The 
state  accordingly  long  ago  took  that  over  so  that  if  a  dispute 
arises  one  doesn't  kill  the  other  party  to  the  disagreement  but  calls 
upon  the  machinery  of  the  state  to  settle  the  matter.  That  marked 
a  long  step  forward.  But  nations  still  fight  it  out,  which  is  a  bar- 
barous 'way  of  settling  differences.  It  is  not  far  removed,  however, 
from  some  of  the  means  resorted  to  now  for  the  settlement  of  class 
or  group  differences.  In  many  ways  we  are  retrograding  to  the 
primitive  status  where  disputants  take  settlement  into  their  own 
hands.  We  cannot  well  lay  claim  to  being  a  grown-up,  mature,  civ- 
ilized people  until  we  have  come  to  the  point  where  morality  is  the 
determinant,  and  we  ask  simply  what  is,  in  good  conscience,  right. 
The  conclusion  seems  inescapable  that  the  confusion  and  distrac- 
tion and  conflicts  and  antagonisms  and  uncertainties  and  bewilder- 
ment which  plague  the  world  today  present  mankind  with  what 
is  at  bottom  a  purely  moral  issue — -the  issue  between  right  and 
wrong.  That,  then,  should  be  the  final  test  of  the  propriety  of  all 
courses  of  action. 

But  there  are  difficulties  thrown  in  the  way  of  getting  that 
simple  test  adopted.  One  is  that  there  is  current  in  the  world  to- 
day a  school  of  thought  which  asserts  that  there  is  no  such  thing 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BO  WEN 


157 


as  universal  principles  of  right  as  opposed  to  wrong.  They  say 
that  for  the  individual,  growth  is  a  continuing  "ongoing  process" 
without  direction.  That  is,  1  that  we  are  continually  changing, 
growing  but  not  toward  any  ultimate  purpose.  There  are  accord- 
ingly no  fixed  principles  by  reference  to  which  we  may  determine 
what  we  ought  to  do.  If  confronted  with  a  situation,  all  we  can  do 
is  to  experiment — try  out  the  course  we  want  to  take,  and  if  it 
works  out  to  the  advantage  of  the  experimenter,  then  for  him  it 
is  right.  Each  one  finds  out  for  himself  according  to  his  own  inter- 
est. Of  course  this  must  inevitably  result  in  confusion,  and  ulti- 
mate chaos. 

This  is  a  deadly  paralyzing  notion  to  plant  in  the  minds  of 
people  and  particularly  the  youthful  and  immature.  It  strikes 
down  belief  that  man  is  a  moral  being  with  a  purpose  and  a  des- 
tiny and  commensurate  responsibilities.  It  releases  one  who  ac- 
cepts it  from  all  restraints  of  conscience.  It  provides  him  with  an 
allegedly  scientific  but  basely  false  assurance  that  he  is  in  no  wise 
responsible  for  his  actions  however  vile  they  may  be  since  they  are 
after  all  but  in  the  course  of  nature.  Let  such  a  notion  as  that 
gain  general  currency  and  you  have  dealt  a  devastating  blow  to 
all  organized  society.  A  free  government  could  no  longer  exist, 
for  its  perpetuity  must  depend  upon  the  moral  integrity  of  its  citi- 
zens. Only  an  absolute,  iron-bound  despotism  could  deal  with  a 
situation  like  that. 

The  Present  Religious  Trend 

One  of  the  most  deep-seated  issues  of  this  world  in  our  day 
is  the  issue  between  the  concept  of  man  as  a  son  of  God  possessed 
of  an  immortal  soul  with  a  God-given  destiny  and  a  guiding  pur- 
pose in  life  and  the  concept  of  man  dispossessed  of  individual 
rights  which  must  lie  universally  respected,  reduced  to  the  status 
of  a  mere  tool  of  an  omnipotent  state,  the  end  in  itself  to  which  man's 
life  is  subordinated. 

The  first  of  these  is  the  foundation  principle  upon  which  our 
nation  is  founded.  It  is  our  heritage  from  the  fathers.  It  derives 
out  of  the  teachings  of  the  Master;  it  is  an  integral  part  of  our  re- 
ligious faith. 

But  it  is  fashionable  to  decry  the  teachings  of  religion  upon 
the  supposed  ground  that  it  is  authoritarian  and  by  its  pronounce- 
ments presumes  to  lay  down  for  man  rules  of  conduct  and  ob- 
servances which  he  should  follow.  Not  believing  in  the  omnipo- 
tence and  infinite  wisdom  and  power  of  God,  the  objector  views 
the  directives  of  religion  as  an  attempt  on  the  part  of  some  man 
to  settle  forever  all  truths  with  which  man  is  concerned  and  to  de- 
prive him  of  the  freedom  of  his  own  judgment.  This,  of  course, 
entirely  misconceives  the  claims  and  mission  and  purposes  of  or- 
ganized religion.    If  it  is  meant  to  assert  that  man  out  of  his  own 


158  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  8  Third  Dag 


finite  limitations  is  able,  unguided  by  the  voice  of  authoritative 
wisdom,  to  create  for  himself  an  adequate  guide  for  living,  then 
the  answer  is  that  experience,  the  history  of  the  race,  does  not  sup- 
port the  assumption. 

It  is  not  my  purpose  to  conduct  an  argument  about  the  con- 
tentions of  the  opponents  of  authoritative  religion  or  of  the  prag- 
matists.  It  is  sufficient  to  say  that  wherever  religion  has  been  dis- 
carded confusion  and  moral  anarchy  have  followed.  And  that  is 
one  pi  the  reasons  for  the  confusion  in  the  political  world  today. 
Mr.  C.  E.  M.  Joad,  an  eminent  English  philosopher,  an  atheist 
driven  by  events  to  reconsider  his  opinions,  writes: 

Where  there  is  a  large  measure  of  general  agreement  in  regard  to 
ultimate  ends,  political  doctrines  can  be  represented  as  means  to  their 
realization.  Where,  however,  there  are  no  common  ends  to  which  the  gen- 
erality of  men  subscribe,  political  programs  assume  the  status  of  ends  in 
themselves.  In  the  nineteenth  century  there  was  a  general  agreement 
among  thinking  people  as  to  the  nature  and  end  of  the  individual.  His  na- 
ture was  that  of  an  immortal  soul;  his  end  was  to  achieve  eternal  salvation. 
Thus,  when  men  differed  about  politics — even  when  they  differed  about 
ethics — their  differences  related  to  the  best  method  of  realizing  the  in- 
dividual's nature  and  achieving  the  individual's  end.  Moreover,  there  was, 
broadly  speaking,  a  general  agreement,  at  least  in  the  western  democ- 
racies, as  to  the  kind  of  society  which  it  was  desirable  to  establish.  Owing 
to  the  decline  of  traditional  religion  these  agreements  no  longer  obtain, 
precisely  because  there  is  today  no  general  acceptance  of  the  view  of  the 
individual  as  an  immortal  soul  and  no  general  reliance  upon  the  hope  of 
eternal  salvation.  Consequently,  political  doctrines  such  as  Fascism  and 
Communism  assume  for  the  twentieth  century  the  status  which  religious 
doctrines  possessed  in  the  nineteenth;  they  are  not,  that  is  to  say,  doc- 
trines in  regard  to  means  to  an  agreed  end,  but  doctrines  in  regard  to  ends 
about  which  there  is  no  agreement. 

Thus  is  clearly  brought  into  focus  the  danger  of  shifting  away 
from  old  moorings.  When  foundation  principles  are  discarded,  then 
shifting,  vagrant,  opportunistic  substitutes  for  principles  take  con- 
trol and  precisely  because  they  are  opportunistic  they  must  shift 
with  the  vagaries  of  changing  popular  moods.  Stability — a  steady 
march  forward  toward  a  fixed  goal — no  longer  is  found. 

It  is  for  us  to  stand  by  the  tried  and  proved  principles  of  re- 
ligion and  the  tried  and  proved  governmental  principles  which 
have  so  blessed  our  land. 

That  we  may  have  the  discerning  wisdom  and  vision  to  do  it 
and,  at  least  among  ourselves,  tresolve  all  our  differences  on  the 
basis  of  right,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  are  all  thankful  that  Brother  Rufus  K.  Hardy  has  sufficiently 
recovered  from  a  recent  illness  to  be  in  attendance  at  this  conference, 
It  has  been  deemed  inadvisable,  however,  for  him  to  assume  the 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  159 


responsibility  of  speaking.  That  is  why  you  have  been  denied  the 
privilege  of  hearing  him  and  of  receiving  his  message. 

Elder  Sonne,  one  of  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  has  an  ap- 
pointment which  conflicts  with  this  conference.  We  shall  hear  more 
about  that  later.  He  is  on  a  special  assignment  by  the  Church. 

The  listening  audience  has  heard  the  message  of  each  member 
of  the  General  Authorities  except  five,  who  spoke  to  the  Priesthood 
meeting  last  evening — Elder  Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  representing  the 
First  Council  of  the  Seventy  spoke  on  the  preparation  of  body  and 
intellect  for  our  spirituality  and  greater  service.  Bishop  Marvin  O. 
Ashton  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  emphasized  the- value  of  honesty 
and  consistent  adherence  to  all  the  standards  of  the  Church.  Elder 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  the  Patriarch,  gave  a  talk  on  the  significance  of 
patriarchal  blessings  and  showed  the  relation  of  the  Holy  Ghost  to 
these  blessings.  Elder  Charles  A.  Callis,  of  the  Council  of  Twelve, 
spoke  on  the  need  of  strong,  loyal  men,  and  the  necessity  of  all 
working  together  for  the  establishment  of  truth  and  universal 
brotherhood.  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  urged  the  teaching 
of  the  simple  truths  of  the  Gospel,  warned  against  the  teaching  of 
false  doctrine,  and  untried  theories.  These  messages  and  those 
which  you  have  heard  over  the  radio  cover  pretty  well,  I  may  say 
comprehensively  cover,  the  teachings  of  the  Church  and  our  duties 
therein.  It  has  been  a  glorious  conference.  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
has  been  with  us;  and  now,  brethren,  as  this  conference  ends,  your 
duties  begin.  "If  to  do  were  as  easy  as  to  know  what  were  good 
to  do,  chapels  had  been  churches,  and  poor  men's  cottages  princes' 
palaces."  It  is  one  thing  to  hear,  it  is  another  thing  to  do.  The 
Savior  taught  that  principle  when  he  said: 

Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  king- 
dom of  heaven,  but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven. 

Whosoever  heareth  these  sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them,  I  will  liken 
him  unto  a  wise  man,  which  built  his  house  upon  a  rock; 

And  the  rain  descended  and  the  floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and 
beat  upon  that  house;  and  it  fell  not;  for  it  was  founded  upon  a  rock. 

And  every  one  that  heareth  these  sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them  not, 
shall  be  likened  unto  a  foolish  man,  which  built  his  house  upon  the  sand; 

And  the  rain  descended,  and  the  floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew  and 
beat  upon  that  house;  and  it  fell;  and  great  was  the  fall  of  it. 

We  have  been  here  during  these  last  few  days  preparing  our- 
selves for  greater  work.  We  have  been  as  teachers  preparing 
lessons.  When  a  teacher  prepares  his  lesson  he  receives  benefits  from 
the  efforts  put  forth  and  from  his  study.  He  is  personally  benefitted, 
but  the  preparation  of  that  lesson  is  but  a  means  to  an  end,  and  that 
end  the  instruction  of  youth — the  inspiring  of  young  men  and  women 
to  higher  and  better  living.  So  we  go  out  now  better  prepared  to 
teach  the  men  and  women  over  whom  we  preside.  The  scope  of 
that  responsibility  and  that  calling  can  be  well  understood  by  the 
reference  of  Paul  to  the  organization  of  the  Church,  wherein  he  said; 


160  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8  Third  Day 

And  he  gave  some,  apostles;  and  some,  prophets;  and  some,  evange- 
lists; and  some,  pastors  and  teachers; 

For  the  perfecting  of  the  saints,  for  the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the 
edifying  of  the  body  of  Christ. 

Till  we  all  come  *  *  *  unto  a  perfect  man,  unto  the  measure  of  the 
stature  of  the  fulness  of  Christ. 

I  purposely,  in  quoting,  omitted  a  phrase,  the  omission  of  which 
you  will  recognize.  Well,  we  will  put  that  in  and  say,  "till  we  all 
come  to  a  unity  of  the  faith  and  to  a  knowledge  of  the  Son  of  God." 
But  I  like  to  think  that  those  are  two  conditions  which  lead  to  the  ' 
perfect  man,  till  we  all  come  "in  a  unity  of  the  faith  and  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  Son  of  God,"  unto  a  perfect  man,  unto  the  measure  of 
the  stature  of  Christ.  Unity,  knowledge,  a  willingness  to  learn,  a 
willingness  to  serve. 

Officers,  leaders,  men  of  the  Priesthood,  you  are  chosen  of  God. 
Go  forth  radiating  a  testimony  that  this  is  God's  work.  Feel  it  your- 
selves and  then  the  men  and  women  in  your  wards  and  stakes  will 
feel  it,  for  you  are  radiating  not  just  what  you  say,  but  what  you  are 
and  what  you  do. 

God  guide  us,  and  help  us,  and  inspire  us  in  this  great  work, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

It  is  practically  the  hour  of  closing,  but  the  time  is  sufficient 
for  nie  to  say  how  much  I  have  enjoyed  this  conference. 

I  agree  with  Brother  Joseph  Fielding  that  the  keynote  of  the 
conference  has  been  repentance.  I  agree  with  him  that  the  Lord 
told  the  Prophet  at  the  very  beginning  that  that  was  his  message 
to  this  generation. 

We  have  been  inspired  by  the  principle  behind  the  parable 
of  the  lost  sheep  over  whose  return  there  is  greater  rejoicing  than 
over  the  ninety-nine  that  are  safe. 

I  should  like  to  testify  to  the  power  of  prayer,  and  to  say 
that  it  is  a  wise  man  who  knows  what  to<  pray  for.  One  of  the 
things  that  we  should  seek  in  going  before  the  Lord  and  in  going 
upon  our  knees,  is  his  inspiration  and  his  wisdom  to  tell  us  what 
to  ask  for. 

My  prayers  have  been  answered. 

I  want,  upon  behalf  of  the  First  Presidency  and  of  all  the 
brethren,  to  thank  all  you  brethren  who  are  here,  and  those  who 
work  with  you  in  your  wards  and  stakes  for  your  loyalty,  for 
your  devotion,  for  your  service  to  the  Lord  our  God  and  to  his 
Cause.  It  is  unfortunate  that  always  we  have  to  speak  even  the 
harsh  word  to>  those  who  little  need  it,  because  those  who  are  in 
dire  want  thereof  are  not  before  us,  but  we  do  this  in  order  that 
you  may  carry  the  message  to  them. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  161 


May  the  Lord  preserve  you  and  bless  you  for  your  labors, 
give  you  health  and  strength,  spiritual  power  to  carry  on.  May 
he  recognize  your  efforts.  May  he  yield  you  blessings  for  your  good 
desires,  yea,  and  more  for  your  work. 

May  God  be  with  you  till  we  meet  again,  I  humbly  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  His  Son,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O,  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

After  singing  and  benediction  this  conference  will  be  ad- 
journed for  six  months. 

We  desire  to  express  appreciation  for  your  promptness  at 
these  sessions,  and  for  the  attendance  of  men  and  women  from 
outlying  stakes.  While  the  sisters  have  not  been  here  they  have 
been  listening  in  and  have  been  rendering  service  in  other  ways. 

We  desire  to  thank  the  following:  The  Tabernacle  Choir,  the 
Tabernacle  Male  Chorus,  the  ushers,  the  custodians,  those  who 
have  helped  at  the  gates,  the  City  Commission  and  police  officers 
who  have  been  so  thoughtful  and  attentive  in  aiding  and  directing 
the  public  and  in  trying  to  guard  from  accidents.  We  appreciate 
their  loyal  service.  We  also  express  appreciation  to  those  who 
have  furnished  flowers  and  all  who  have  in  any  way  contributed  to 
the  success  of  this  conference. 

This  evening  the  visiting  brethren  are  invited  to  attend  ward 
meetings  here  in  the  city. 

Will  you  please  join  in  singing  "God  Be  With  You  Till  We 
Meet  Again,"  number  7  in  the  Song  Folder,  after  which  the  bene- 
diction will  be  offered  by  President  Earl  S.  Paul  of  the  Mount 
Ogden  Stake. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "God  Be  With  You"  (L.D.S. 
Hymn  Book  No.  132). 

Elder  Earl  S.  Paul,  President  of  the  Mount  Ogden  Stake  offered 
the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

The  congregational  singing  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall, 
Conductor,  and  Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor,  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  was  in  attendance  at  the  Sunday  morning 
session  and  presented  musical  numbers  at  that  meeting.  The  Tab- 
ernacle Choir  male  chorus,  under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall, rendered  musical  numbers  at  the  Friday  evening  meeting. 

The  music  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast  and 
the  Church  o[  the  Air  broadcast  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall, 


162  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8  Third  Day 


organ  presentations  and  organ  accompaniments  for  these  broadcasts 
were  by  Frank  W.  Asper,  the  Spoken  Word  by  Richard  L.  Evans. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played 
by  Alexander  Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper,  and  Wade  N.  Stephens. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

JOSEPH  ANDERSON, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Ashton,  Elder  Marvin  O.  103 

A  time  for  fervent  prayer,  103 — "Bow-legged"  thinking,  104 — Our 
attitude  toward  the  aged,  105 — Dishonesty  in  pension  matters,  105 — 
Honesty  enjoined,  106 — Apt  illustrations,  107 — Children  to  be  taught 
early  in  life,  108. 

Authorities  and  officers  present    1 

Auxiliary  officers  sustained   28 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  O.    65 

A  testimony  of  the  truth  helps  under  difficulties,  65 — Prophecies  ful- 
filled, 66 — Membership  of  the  Church  blessed,  66 — A  closing  testi- 
mony, 67. 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft   -  128 

America  founded  on  Christian  principles,  128 — Material  progress 
evident,  130 — A  decline  in  spiritual  things  evident,  131 — Disobedi- 
ence to  the  commandments  weakening  the  nation,  132 — Increase  in 
crime,  133 — A  nation  blessed  "whose  God  is  the  Lord,"  134 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E.    152 

Testing  present  conditions  by  principle  of  right  or  wrong,  153 — An 
illustration  from  Paul's  missionary  experience,  153 — Application  to 
present-day  conditions,  154 — Employment  of  evil  means  inconsistent, 
155 — A  plan  to  bring  peace,  156 — The  present  religious  trend,  157. 

Broadcast  of  Choir  and  Organ  120 

Callis.  Elder  Charles  A.  113 

"That's  the  spirit,"  112 — A  plea  for  unselfishness,  113. 

Changes  in  Church  Officers    3 

Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast  127 

Church  Welfare  Committee    28 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben  Jr.   14 

Satan's  power  being  exercised,  14 — The  Lord  tried  by  the  acts  of 
men,  14 — Preparation  for  return  of  soldiers.,  14. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben  Jr.   117 

Unity  a  principle  of  power,  117 — Words  of  warning,  117 — Youth 
hungering  for  the  Gospel,  118. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben  Jr.,   160 

Closing  address,  160. 
Ellsworth,  Elder  German  E.    23 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.   90 

Accomplishments  of  Joseph  Smith,  90 — Evidence  of  revelation  in  the 
teachings  of  the  Prophet,  91 — A  warning  regarding  seeking  after 
mysteries,  92 — Wise  counsel,  93. 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.  (broadcast)    120 

First  Day,  Afternoon  meeting   25 

First  Day,  Morning  meeting   2 

General  Authorities  present    1 


164  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


General  Authorities  sustained    26 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  sustained    28 

General  Officers  sustained   27 

Grant,  President  Heber  J,  ..  ....  6 


Blessing  to  those  who  work  in  the  Church,  6 — Faith  and  protection 
of  our  youth,  6 — Concerning  virtue,  7 — The  power  of  prayer,  9 — 
Comfort  to  those  who  mourn,  10 — Freedom  and  the  Constitution,  11 — 


Eternal  life  the  greatest  prize,  12. 
Iverson,  Elder  Gustave  A.   20 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R.   58 

Cultivation  of  the  souls  of  men,  58. 
Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W.    40 

The  requirements  in  obtaining  a  testimony,  41 — Spiritual  blessings  in 
the  Word  of  Wisdom,  42 — A  testimony  of  the  truth  comes  through 
righteous  living,  42 — Promises  of  the  Lord  to  his  people,  44 — Gospel 
truth  revealed  through  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  44 — Requirements  for 
retaining  a  testimony,  45. 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A.   100 

Advice  as  to  care  of  physical  body,  100 — Suggestions  regarding  the 
Scriptures.  101 — Daily  kind  acts  part  of  the  Gospel,  101 — The 
strength  of  prayer,  102. 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B.   72 

Dreams  and  delusions,  72 — The  word  of  the  Lord,  73 — Satan's  aim 
is  to  deceive,  73 — Light  given  through  the  Holy  Ghost,  74 — Author- 
ity vested  in  the  head  of  the  Church,  75 — How  to  detect  truth  from 
error,  76. 


McKay,  President  David  0   2,  5,  13,  24,  25,  52,  76, 

77,  99,  115,  118,  119,  122,  135,  139,  140,  158,  161 
McKay,  President  David  O.   77 

Jesus'  grief  over  Jerusalem,  77 — History  being  repeated,  78 — Develop- 
ment of  brutal  instincts,  79 — The  collapse  of  humanitarian  principles, 
79 — To  avoid  another  war,  then  people  must  change  their  way  of 
thinking,  81 — Eliminate  arrogance  of  superiority,  81 — Seek  material 
advancement  as  a  means  of  spiritual  attainment,  81 — Two  great  forces 
point  the  way  to  peace,  82. 


McKay,  President  David  O.  115 

Sunday  School  teachers  and  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  115 — A  lesson 
from  "Les  Miserables,"  115 — Suggested  questions  for  teachers,  116 — 
The  moulding  of  souls,  116. 

McKay,  President  David  O.  158 

McKay,  Elder  Thomas  E.    68 

Mission  Presidents  and  their  responsibilities,  68 — A  suggestion  for 
the  Seventies,  68 — Conditions  in  the  European  Missions,  69 — A  sol- 
dier's visit  in  France,  71. 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F.    29 

The  application  of  the  Golden  Rule,  29 — The  present  state  of  politics, 
30 — Selfishness  a  dominating  factor,  31. 

New  Stake  Presidents   4 

New  Temple  President    4 

New  Wards  organized    4 

Obituaries    5 


INDEX  165 

Officers  sustained     26 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E.   122 

Parable  of  the  vineyard,  122 — The  Church  program  far-reaching, 
123 — Attitude  of  some  members  against  outlined  plan,  123 — Results 
of  following  own  desires,  125 — Rebuke  given  by  the  Lord  to  the 
early  saints,  125 — Sustaining  the  leaders  of  the  Church,  126 — Love 
for  God  shown  in  faithful  service,  126. 

Reeder,  Elder  William  H.  Jr.,  146 

Richards,  Elder  George  F.   86 

True  friendliness,  86 — The  requirements  of  the  Gospel,  86 — Testi- 
mony of  the  truth  comes  through  revelation,  87 — The  power  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  88 — The  need  for  a  teacher,  89 — A  sincere  testimony, 
90. 

Richards,  Bishop  LeGrand   60 

An  expression  of  gratitude  for  blessings,  61 — The  temptations  met  by 
our  boys  in  the  Army,  61 — The  present  condition  of  mankind,  63— 
Example  of  a  Mormon  girl,  64— Good  and  evil  influences  ever  present, 
64. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L  135 

Eternal  marriage  the  foundation  of  an  enduring  home,  137 — The  duty 
of  caring  for  aged  parents,  138. 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G.      53 

Prayer  the  present-day  need,  53 — Belief  in  a  living  God  essential 
to  faith,  54 — A  personal  experience,  55 — Righteousness  strengthens 
faith,  56 — The  scriptures  teach  prayer,  56 — An  incident  from  Lincoln's 
life,  57 — Joseph  Smith's  prayer  and  its  results,  57. 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting    76 

Second  Day,  Evening  Meeting   99 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting    52 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   93 

Experiences  of  Joseph  Smith,  94 — The  importance  of  prayer,  95 — 
Missionaries  in  the  Armed  Forces,  95 — A  conversation  with  a  Cath- 
olic bishop,  96 — The  need  for  repentance,  97 — A  testimony,  98 — A 
plea  for  those  who  need  comfort,  98. 

Smith,  Patriarch  Joseph  F.  109 

The  necessity  for  witnesses,  109 — Specific  duties  of  Patriarchs,  110 — 
A  responsibility  in  lineage,  111 — A  father's  blessing,  111 — More  than 
one  patriarchal  blessing,  112 — A  patriarchal  blessing  for  individual 
comfort,  112 — Blessing  upon  his  son,  113. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  140 

The  necessity  for  a  restoration  of  the  truth,  140— The  message  of  the 
early  missionaries  of  the  Church,  142 — The  warning  given  to  the 
world,  142 — Wickedness  prevailing  in  the  world,  144 — The  keeping 
of  God's  commandments  necessary  to  bring  peace,  145. 

Smith,  Elder  Nicholas  G.   16 

The  value  of  family  prayer,  16 — Letter  from  a  soldier,  16 — Prayers 
are  answered,  18 — A  testimony,  20. 

Special  appointments    3 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  120 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H.    34 

Faith  and  works  consistent  with  righteous  life,  34 — A  practical  dem- 
onstration, 35 — Works  are  the  proof  of  faith,  35. 


166  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting    140 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting  119 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A.   46 

Thoughts  on  the  return  of  the  soldiers,  46 — Duty  towards  the  de- 
fenders of  our  country,  47 — Education  to  be  encouraged,  48 — Agri- 
culture gives  promise  of  success,  49 — Conservation  of  water,  50 — Im- 
proved conditions  in  farming,  51. 

Wirthlin,  Elder  Joseph  L.    36 

The  power  of  God  made  manifest,  36 — Adam's  experiences,  37 — 
Man's  growth  comes  through  work,  37 — Idleness  a  demoralizing 
agency,  38 — Robert  Ingersoll's  opinion  of  Government  support,  38 — 
Labor  a  sacred  obligation,  39. 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E.  148 

Teaching  of  Jesus  to  his  Apostles,  148 — The  responsibility  of  Mission 
Presidents,  149 — Visit  to  a  small  branch,  150 — Testimony  of  a  con- 
vert, 150 — The  faith  of  a  soldier,  151 — A  missionary  incident,  152. 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   83 

Present-day  conditions,  83 — Christian  belief  of  the  future,  84 — A 
message  given  through  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel,  85. 


DANIEL  HANKER  WELLS 

AID  EVENTS  II  HIS  TIME 

By  Bryant  S.  Hinckley 

As  the  polished  facets  of  a  diamond  flash  back  brilliantly 
the  rainbow  of  colors  from  the  light  which  plays  upon  them,  so 
do  certain  historic  characters  reflect  the  light  and  color  of  their 
times. 

Daniel  Hanmer  Wells  was  one  of  these. 

Bryant  S.  Hinckley,  always  illuminating  and  inspirational, 
turns  the  spot  light  of  appraisal  and  appreciation  upon  a  dis- 
tinctive character  in  the  great  drama  of  Mormon  history. 

This  book  is  in  fact  a  new  approach  to  the  study  of  Church 
History.  It  offers  the  events  of  the  history  of  Mormonism  as 
one  of  the  principal  actors  saw  them  happen  and  as  he  acted 
in,  and  was  acted  upon  by  them. 

The  book  is  a  biography  and  more,  a  tribute  of  apprecia- 
tion and  more —  it  is  a  history  throbbing  with  the  pulse  beats 
of  great  personalities  as  they  struggle  through  one  crisis  after 
another. 

His  life  ran  the  long  span  which  included  actively  within 
it  labors  of  love  for  and  loyalty  to  every  man  who  has  been 
president  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Daniel  H.  Wells  saw  it  all  happen:  The  rise  of  the  Church 
in  the  Middle  West;  the  glory  of  Nauvoo;  the  catastrophe  of 
the  martyrdom;  the  pain,  travail,  and  power  of  pioneering;  the 
building  of  the  West;  the  crises  of  pre-statehood  days;  and 
the  long,  hard  pull  which  finally  established  the  Mormon  people 
on  the  heights  where  they  are  now  building. 

Published  privately  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  as  a 
tribute  to  the  loyal  friend  of  his  youth,  it  will  stand  as  a  welcome 
addition  to  the  faith-promoting  literature  of  the  Church. 

DANIEL  HANMER  WELLS 

AMD  EVENTS  OF  IIS  TIME 

$2.50 

DESERET  BODE  COMPANY 


44  East  South  Temple  Street 


Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


Enjoy  the  Fellowship  of  Great  Minds 

by  Reading  GOOD  BOOKS 

A  book  is  an  invitation  to  share  the  thoughts  of  an  illum- 
inating mind.  Consider  the  enrichment  one  will  receive  from 
spending  quiet  hours  with  the  authors  of  these  books: 


Heber  J.  Grant  GOSPEL  STANDARDS  .$2.25 

David  O.  McKay        ANCIENT  APOSTLES   1.00 

James  E.  Talmage       JESUS  THE  CHRIST  2.00 

ARTICLES  OF  FAITH   1.25 

B.  H.  Roberts  THE  GOSPEL   1JJ0 

Joseph  F.  Smith  GOSPEL  DOCTRINE  2.50 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  ESSENTIALS  IN  CHURCH 

HISTORY  .   „   2.00 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  PROPHET 

JOSEPH  SMITH  2.25 

LIFE  OF  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH  2.50 

WAY  TO  PERFECTION   1.50 

SIGNS  OF  THE  TIMES   1.25 

John  A.  Widtsoe         IN  SEARCH  OF  TRUTH  .  ^50 

PRIESTHOOD  AND  CHURCH 
GOVERNMENT    1.75 

DISCOURSES  OF  BRIGHAM 
YOUNG   _  2.50 

George  D.  Pyper        STORIES  OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINT 

HYMNS     1.50 

John  Henry  Evans       JOSEPH  SMITH,  AN  AMERICAN 

PROPHET  ..„  3.00 

Richard  L  Evans        UNTO  THE  HELLS   1.50 


THIS  DAY  AND  ALWAYS   1.50 

These  and  many  other  sources  of  inspiration  are  available 
to  you  in  the  large  stock  of  the 

DESERET  BODE  COMPANY 

Publishers  oi  Latter-Day  Saint  Literature 
44  East  South  Temple  Street 
Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 
THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST 


