Ninety-First 

Semi- Annual  Conference 

of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly  Hall, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Oct.  8,  9, 10,1920 
With  a  Full  Report  of  the  Discourses 


50  Cents 


PUBLISHED  BY 

THE  DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  .UTAH 


Read  the  Church  Works 


Every  Latter-day  Saint  family  should  possess  a  com- 
plete set  of  the  Church  Works.  They  are  full  of  inspired 
teachings  and  bring  an  influence  in  the  home  that  is  whole- 
some and  uplifting.  Familiarity  with  these  inspired  books 
means  intelligent  membership  and  a  spiritual  equipment 
for  big,  wholesome  service. 

Let  your  children  make  the  acquaintance  of  these  sa- 
cred volumes  by  frequent  contact  with  them  in  the  home. 
There  is  no  more  impressive  and  effective  way  to  impress 
them  with  the  truths  of  the  gospel. 

Send  for  Catalog 


OUR  NEW  HOME 

Visitors  to  our  city  are  specially  invited  to  look  us  over 
in  our  new  home  on  South  Temple  Street.  We  now  oc- 
cupy an  entire  building,  arranged  in  departments  and 
remodeled  to  accommodate  the 

BIGGEST  BOOK  AND  SCHOOL  SUPPLY 
HOUSE  IN  THE  ENTIRE  WEST 

We  no  longer  have  a  store  at  6  Main  Street.  Our  two 
popular  houses  have  been  merged  into  one.  Patrons  of 
both  will  find  us  competent  and  willing  to  give  them  even 
better  service  than  ever  before. 

We  invite  correspondence. 

Mail  orders  have  our  prompt  attention. 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

4446-48  East  on  South  Temple  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Ninety-First  Semi-Annual  Conference 

of  the 

Church  Of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-Day  Saints 


FIRST  DAY 

The  ninety-first  semi-annual  conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
at  10  a.  m.,  Friday,  October  8,  1920.  President  Heber  J.  Grant  pre- 
sided. 

AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency:  Heber  J.  Grant,  Anthon  H.  Lund  and 
Charles  W.  Penrose ;  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles :  Rudger 
Clawson,  Reed  Smoot,*  Geo.  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David 
O.  McKay,  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Tal- 
mage,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman  -and  Melvin  J.  Ballard ; 
Presiding  Patriarch  Hyrum  G.  Smith ;  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy ; 
Seymour  B.  Young,  B.  H.  Roberts,f  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W. 
McMurrin,  Charles  H.  Hart  and  Levi  Edgar  Young ;  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric:  Charles  W.  Nibley,  David  A.  Smith  and  John  Wells; 
Assistant  Historians:  Andrew  Jenson,  and  A.  Wm.  Lund.  There 
were  a  large  number  of  Presidents  of  stakes  with  their  counselors, 
Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  wards,  and  numerous  other  prominent  officers, 
men  and  women,  representing  various  quorums  and  organizations  of 
the  Church. 

The  following  presidents  of  missions  were  in  attendance:  Geo. 
W.  McCune,  Eastern  States ;  Winslow  Farr  Smith,  Northern  States ; 
Samuel  O.  Bennion,  Central  States ;  Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States ; 
John  M.  Knight,  Western  States ;  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  California ; 
.  Heber  C.  Iverson,  Northwestern  States ;  Rey  L.  Pratt,  Mexican ;  Ne- 
phi  Jensen,  Canada,  and  Benjamin  Goddard,  Bureau  of  Information, 
Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  called  the  assembly  to  order.  The  great 
auditorium  and  galleries  were  comfortably  filled  by  people  from  all 
parts  of  the  Church. 

The  congregation  sang,  "How  firmj  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  .the 
Lord."  Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Hugh  J.  Cannon,  President  of 
the  Liberty  stake  of  Zion. 

The  congregation  sang,  "O  say,  what  is  truth  ?" 


*Geo.  Albert  Smith  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  British  and  Euro- 
pean Missions. 

tj.  Golden  Kimball  was  absent  owing  to  ill  health. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  rejoice  again  to  have  the  opportunity  of  meeting  with  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  in  another  general  conference.  I  am  very  happy  to  see 
so  many  here  at  this,  our  opening  session.  I  desire  with  all  my  heart 
that  all  that  I  may  say  during  this  conference,  and  all  that  is  said  by 
my  associates  who  speak  to  you,  shall  be  inspired  of  the  Lord.  I 
am  grateful  beyond  expression  for  the  rich  outpourings  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  during  our  conferences  that  we  have  held  since  it  fell  to 
my  lot  to  preside  over  the  Church.  I  am  free  to  confess  that  I  ap- 
proached our  June  conference,  and  the  other  conferences  that  have 
been  held  here  since  my  presidency,  with  fear  and  trembling.  When 
I  thought  of  the  wonderful  blessings  of  the  Lord  in  the  past  at  our 
general  conferences  and  the  inspiration  to  Brigham  Young  and  those 
who  have  succeeded  him,  I  desired  with  all  my  heart  that  there  should 
be  no  falling  off  in  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  to  those  who  might 
address  us,  and  earnestly  supplicated  him  to  this  effect.  And  I  am 
indeed  grateful  for  the  blessings  that  we  have  enjoyed,  and  I  pray 
that  that  same  blessing,  that  same  rich  outpouring  of  his  Spirit  may 
be  given  to  all  who  shall  speak  to  us  during  the  sessions  of  this  con- 
ference. 

A  MAGNIFICENT  GIFT  TO  THE  CHURCH 

I  received  a  letter  last  night  that  was  very  gratifying  to  me,  and 
before  making  any  remarks,  I  will  read  it : 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  October  7,  1920. 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  and  Council: 

Dear  brethren:  We  desire  to  give  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  our  home  on  Miain  and  First  North  streets  to 
be  used  preferably  for  the  women's  building,  thus  housing  the  three 
women's  organizations,  or  for  such  other  purpose  as  may  be  deemed  best. 

Yours  faithfully, 

(Signed)  A.  W.  McCune, 

Elizabeth  A.  C.  McCune. 

I  remarked  to  one  of  the  wealthy  men  of  our  Church,  within  the 
last  forty-eight  hours:  "When  you  come  to  pass  away  don't  leave  all 
of  your  property  to  your  family,  but  give  a  portion  of  it  as  an  en- 
dowment for  some  good  cause  for  the  advancement  of  the  work  ol 
God."  I  have  always  regretted  that  those  who  have  been  abundantly 
blest  of  the  Lord  with  the  wealth  of  this  world  have  failed  to  leave 
a  part  of  it  to  some  of  our  charitable  institutions  or  our  various  or- 
ganizations. I  believe  that  where  a  man  is  worth  a  half  million  dol- 
lars or  even  less,  if  he  were  to  give  a  tenth  or  even  a  quarter  of 
his  means  for  some  charitable  purpose  in  this  Church,  the  re- 
mainder that  he  left  to  his  family  would  do  them  more  good  and  they 
would  have  greater  wisdom  in  handling  it  and  would  accomplish  more 
than  though  all  the  wealth  had  been  left  to  the  heirs  of  the  departed 
man  or  woman,  as  the  case  may  be.  My  heart  has  gone  out  in  grati- 
tude to  the  late  Matilda  M.  Barratt  for  building  us  the  splendid  build- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


ing  known  as  the  Barratt  Hall,  in  the  days  of  the  adversity  and  fi- 
nancial hardships  of  our  schools.  And  I  pray  God  to  bless  Brother 
and  Sister  McCune'for  this  magnificent  gift,  and  to  multiply  their 
substance. 

HISTORICAL    EVENTS    SINCE    APRIL  LAST 

Since  our  last  conference  the  following  bishops  have  passed  away  : 
Bishops  Who  Have  Died  Since  April  Conference 

Norman  S.  Anderson,  Sugarville  ward,  Deseret  stake;  Otto  J.  Poulson, 
Timpanogos  ward,  Utah  stake. 

New  Stakes  Organized  Since  April  Conference 

Franklin  stake,  Samuel  W.  Parkinson,  president;  Logan  stake,  Oliver 
H.  Budge,  president;  Roosevelt  stake,  William  H.  Smart,  president;  Gar- 
field stake,  Charles  E.  Rowan  Jr.,  president. 

New  Stake  Clerks  Since  April  Conference 

Oneida  stake,  Joseph  W.  Olson;  Cache  stake,  John  C.  Peterson;  Du- 
chesne stake,  LeRoy  W.  Rust;  Franklin  stake,  Jessie  P.  Rich;  Logan  stake, 
John  E.  Olson;  Roosevelt  stake,  William  H.  Gagon;  Twin.  Falls  stake, 
Wilford  Johanson. 

New  Wards  Organized  Since  April  Conference 

Manavu  ward,  Utah  stake,  Nephi  Anderson,  bishop;  Lost  River  ward, 
Lost  River  stake,  Henry  N.  Mickelson,  bishop;  Logan  Eleventh  ward, 
Cache  stake,  Hans  A.  Pederson,  bishop;  Manassa  Second  ward,  San  Luis 
stake,  Silas  S.  Weimer,  bishop;  Roosevelt  Second  ward,  Roosevelt  stake, 
David  Bennion,  bishop;  Star  ward,  Burley  stake,  Alma  C.  Tilley,  bishop; 
Payson  Third  ward,  Nebo  stake,  Leonard  A.  Hill,  bishop;  Rupert  Second 
ward,  Blaine  stake,  Richard  T.  Astle,  bishop. 

Mission  Changes  (Called  But  Not  Yet  in  the  Field) 

Australian  mission,  Don  C.  Rushton,  president;  New  Zealand  mission, 
George  F.  Taylor,  president;  Swiss  mission,  Serge  F:  Ballif,  president. 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  HELPFULNESS 

This  morning,  after  coming  to  my  office,  I  happened  to  see  lying 
upon  my  desk  the  first  volume  of  what  is  known  as  Heart  Throbs.  1 
had  brought  it  from  my  home  to  have  a  couple  of  poems  copied,  several 
days  ago,  and  as  I  looked  at  the  book  I  remembered  a  poem  in  it  that 
I  decided  to  read  here  today :  "I  shall  not  pass  again  this  way,"  is  the 
title.    Preceding  the  poem  is  the  following  note: 

(For  several  years  before  his  death,  Mr.  Daniel  S.  Ford,  the  proprietor, 
editor  and  builder  of  the  "Youth's  Companion,"  because  of  delicate  health, 
did  his  work  and  managed  his  mammoth  business  from  a  little  room  in  his 
home  in  one  of  the  beautiful  parks  of  Boston.  When  loving  hands  cleared 
the  plain,  but  convenient  desk,  there  was  found,  in  a  conspicuous  place, 
much  worn  with  frequent  handling,  the  following  poem.  If  the  poet  had 
intended  to  describe  Mr.  Ford's  daily  words  and  actions,  he  could  not 
have  done  so  in  more  appropriate  language.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  bread  that  bringeth  strength  I  want  to  give, 
The  water  pure  that  bids  the  thirsty  live; 
I  want  to  help  the  fainting  day  by  day; 
I'm  sure  I  shall  not  pass  again  this  way. 

I  want  to  give  the  oil  of  joy  for  tears, 

The  faith  to  conquer  crowding  doubts  and  fears. 

Beauty  for  ashes  may  I  give  alway; 

I'm  sure  I  shall  not  pass  again  this  way. 

I  want  to  give  good  measure  running  o'er, 
And  into  angry  hearts  I  want  to  pour 
The  answer  soft  that  turneth  wrath  away; 
I'm  sure  I  shall  not  pass  again  this  way. 

I  want  to  give  to  others  hope  and  faith, 
I  want  to  do  all  that  the  Master  saith; 
I  want  to  live  aright  from  day  to  day; 
I'm  sure  I  shall  not  pass  again  this  way. 

I  feel  that  every  Latter-day  Saint  ought  to  have  the  same  desire 
as  Mr.  Ford  found  expressed  in  this  very  beautiful  poem.  I  am  sure 
I  have  it  in  my  heart  this  very  day,  as  I  stand  before  you.  I  feel,  as 
expressed  in  the  Psalms : 

Search  me,  O  God,  and  know  my  heart;  try  me,  and  know  my  thoughts: 

And  see  if  there  be  any  wicked  way  in  me,  and  lead  me  in  the  way  ev- 
erlasting.—139:23,  24. 

The  fear  of  the  Lord  is  clean,  enduring  forever:  the  judgments  of  the 
Lord  are  true  and  righteous  altogether. 

More  to  be  desired  are  they  than  gold,  yea,  than  much  fine  gold:  sweet- 
er also  than  honey  and  the  honeycomb. — 19:9,  10. 

PAINED  OVER  POLITICAL  AND  FINANCIAL  DIFFERENCES 

In  speaking  to  a  few  friends  the  other  day  I  made  some  remarks 
and  as  my  secretary  happened  to  be  present  to  take  notes,  I  decided 
to  read  what  I  said  on  that  occasion: 

"I  am  anxious  to  see  the  Latter-day  Saints  devoted  to  the  work  of 
God  above  everything  else  in  the  world;  and  I  have  never  been  so 
pained  in  my  life  as  I  have  been  during  the  past  few  months  over  the 
conditions — political,  financial,  and  otherwise — that  we  find  among  the 
people.  The  spirit  of  bitterness  that  seems  to  exist  in  the  hearts  of 
some  true,  faithful  and  honest  Latter-day  Saints,  because  of  their  dif- 
ference of  ideas  and  opinions  on  business  matters  and  political  matters 
is  very  painful  to  me.  I  do  hope  and  pray,  with  all  my  heart,  that 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  come  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  great 
abundance ;  that  this  spirit  of  almost  hatred  and  animosity,  that  seems 
to  be  existing  today  among  the  people  may  disappear." 

THE  LORD'S  DEMAND 

In  section  64:8-13,  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  we  find  the  follow- 
ing: 

My  disciples,  in  days  of  old,  sought  occasion  against  one  another,  and 
forgave  not  one  another  in  their  hearts,  and  for  this  evil  they  were 
afflicted,  and  sorely  chastened: 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


t 


Wherefore  I  say  unto  you,  that  ye  ought  to  forgive  one  another,  fo' 
he  that  forgiveth  not  his  brother  his  trespasses,  standeth  condemned  be- 
fore the  Lord,  for  there  remaineth  in  him  the  greater  sin. 

I,  the  Lord,  will  forgive  whom  I  will  forgive,  but  of  you  it  is  re- 
quired to  forgive  all  men; 

And  ye  ought  to  say  in  your  hearts,  let  God  judge  between  me  and 
thee,  and  reward  thee  according  to  thy  deeds. 

And  he  that  repenteth  not  of  his  sins,  and  confesseth  them  not,  then 
ye  shall  bring  him  before  the  Church,  and  do  with  him  as  the  Scripture 
saith  unto  you,  either  by  commandment  or  by  revelation. 

And  this  ye  shall  do  that  God  may  be  glorified,  not  because  ye  for- 
give not,  having  not  compassion,  but  that  ye  may  be  justified  in  the  eyes 
of  the  law,  that  ye  may  not  offend  him  who  is  your  Lawgiver. 

And  in  section  121 :45,  46,  we  read: 

Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men,  and  to  the 
household  of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly,  then 
shall  thy  confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God,  and  the  doctrine  of 
the  Priesthood  shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven. 

The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  companion,  and  thy  sceptre 
an  unchanging  sceptre  of  righteousness  and  truth,  and  thy  dominion  shall 
be  an  everlasting  dominion,  and  without  compulsory  means  it  shall  flow 
unto  thee  for  ever  and  ever. 

ILLUSTRATION  FROM  PERSONAL  EXPERIENCE 

I  have  a  very  wonderful  respect  and  regard  for  this  quotation 
from  page  240  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  Some  years  ago  a 
prominent  man  was  excommunicated  from  the  Church.  He,  years 
later,  pleaded  for  baptism.  President  John  Taylor  referred  the  ques- 
tion of  his  baptism  to  the  apostles,  stating  that  if  they  unanimously 
consented  to  his  baptism,  he  could  be  baptized,  but  that  if  there  was 
one  dissenting  vote,  he  should  not  be  admitted  into  the  Church.  As 
I  remember  the  vote,  it  was  five  for  baptism  and  seven  against.  A 
vear  or  so  later  the  question  came  up  again  and  it  was  eight  for  bap- 
tism and  four  against.  Later  it  came  up  again  and  it  was  ten  for 
baptism  and  two  against.  Finally  all  of  the  Council  of  the  Apostles, 
with  the  exception  of  your  humble  servant,  consented  that  this  man  be 
baptized  and  I  was  then  next  to  the  junior  member  of  the  quorum. 
Later  I  was  in  the  office  of  the  president  and  he  said : 

"Heber,  I  understand  that  eleven  of  the  apostles  have  consented 
to  the  baptism  of  Brother  So  and  So,"  naming  the  man,  "and  that  you 
alone  are  standing  out.  How  will  you  feel  when  you  get  on  the  other 
side  and  you  find  that  this  man  has  pleaded  for  baptism  and  you  find 
that  you  have  perhaps  kept  himi  out  from  entering  in  with  those  who 
have  repented  of  their  sins  and  received  some  reward  ?" 

I  said,  "President  John  Taylor,  I  can  look  the  Lord  squarely 
in  the  eye,  if  he  asks  me  that  question,  and  tell  him  that  I  did  that 
which  I  thought  was  for  the  best  good  of  the  kingdom.  When  a  man 
holding  the  holy  Priesthood  of  God  goes  forth  to  proclaim  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  to  call  the  wicked  to  repentance;  goes  to 
proclaim  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  was 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  the  gospel  has  been  restored  again  to  the 
earth,  and  that  man  in  the  mission  home  of  the  Church  of  Christ 
commits  adultery,  I  can  tell  the  Lord  that  he  had  disgraced  this  Church 
enough,  and  that  I  did  not  propose  to  let  any  such  a  man  come  back 
into  the  Church." 

"Well,"  said  President  Taylor,  "my  boy,  that  is  all  right,  stay 
with  your  convictions,  stay  right  with  them." 

I  said,  "President  Taylor,  your  letter  said  you  wanted  each  one 
of  the  apostles  to  vote  the  convictions  of  his  heart.  If  you  desire  me 
to  surrender  the  convictions  of  my  heart,  I  will  gladly  do  it;  I  will 
gladly  vote  for  this  man  to  come  back,  but  while  I  live  I  never  expect 
to  consent,  if  it  is  left  to  my  judgment.  That  man,  was  accused  before 
the  apostles  several  years  ago  and  he  stood  up  and  lied  and  claimed 
that  he  was  innocent,  and  the  Lord  gave  to  me  a  testimony  that  he 
lied,  but  I  could  not  condemn  him  because  of  that.  I  got  down  on 
my  knees  that  night  and  prayed  God  to  give  me  the  strength  not  to 
expose  that  man,  seeing  that  he  had  lied  but  that  we  had  no  evidence, 
except  only  the  testimony  of  the  girl  that  he  had  seduced.  And  I 
prayed  the  Lord  that  some  day  additional  testimony  might  come,  and 
it  did  come,  and  we  then  excommunicated  him.  And  when  a  man  can 
lie  to  the  apostles,  and  when  he  can  be  guilty  while  proclaiming  re- 
pentance of  sin,  I  think  this  Church  has  been  disgraced  enough  with- 
out ever  letting  him  come  back  into  the  Church." 

"Well,"  repeated  President  Taylor,  "my  boy,  don't  you  vote  as 
long  as  you  live,  while  you  hold  those  ideas,  stay  right  with  them." 

A  CHANGE  OF  HEART— THE  SPIRIT  OF  FORGIVENESS 

I  left  the  president's  office.  I  went  home.  My  lunch  was  not 
ready.  I  was  reading  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  through  for  the 
third  or  fourth  time  systematically,  and  I  had  my  bookmark  in  it. 
but  as  I  picked  it  up,  instead  of  opening  where  the  bookmark  was,  it 
opened  to : 

I,  the  Lord,  will  forgive  whom  I  will  forgive,  but  of  you  it  is  required 
to  forgive  all  men;  but  he  that  forgiveth  not  his  brother  standeth  con- 
demned before  the  Lord. 

And  I  closed  the  book  and  said :  "If  the  devil  applies  for  baptism, 
and  claims  that  he  has  repented,  I  will  baptize  him."  After  lunch  I 
returned  to  the  office  of  President  Taylor  and  I  said,  "President  Tay- 
lor, I  have  had  a  change  of  heart.  One  hour  ago  I  said,  never  while 
I  live,  did  I  expect  to  ever  consent  that  Brother  So  and  So  should  be 
baptized,  but  I  have  come  to  tell  you  he  can  be  baptized,  so  far  as  I 
am  concerned." 

President  Taylor  had  a  habit,  when  he  was  particularly  pleased, 
of  sitting  up  and  laughing  and  shaking  his  whole  body,  and  he  laughed 
and  said,  "My  boy,  the  change  is  very  sudden,  very  sudden.  I  want 
to  ask  you  a  question.  How  did  you  feel  when  you  left  here  an  hour 
ago?  Did  you  feel  like  you  wanted  to  hit  that  man  right  squarely  be- 
tween the  eyes  and  knock  him  down?" 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


I  said,  "That  is  just  the  way  I  felt." 
He  said,  "How  do  you  feel  now?" 

"Well,  to  tell  you  the  truth,  President  Taylor,  I  hope  the  Lord 
will  forgive  the  sinner." 

He  said,  "You  feel  happy,  don't  you,  in  comparison.  You  had 
the  spirit  of  anger,  you  had  the  spirit  of  bitterness  in  your  heart  to- 
ward that  man,  because  of  his  sin  and  because  of  the  disgrace  he  had 
brought  upon  the  Church.  And  now  you  have  the  spirit  of  forgiveness 
and  you  really  feel  happy,  don't  you?" 

And  I  said,  "Yes  I  do;  I  felt  mean  and  hateful  and  now  I  feel 
happy." 

And  he  said:  "Do  you  know  why  I  wrote  that  letter?" 
I  said:  "No,  sir." 

"Well  I  wrote  it,  just  so  you  and  some  of  the  younger  members 
of  the  apostles  would  learn  the  lesson  that  forgiveness  is  in  advance 
of  justice,  where  there  is  repentance,  and  that  to  have  in  your  heart 
the  spirit  of  forgiveness  and  to  eliminate  from  your  hearts  the  spirit 
of  hatred  and  bitterness,  brings  peace  and  joy;  that  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  brings  joy,  peace  and  happiness  to  every  soul  that  lives 
it  and  follows  its  teachings." 

LOVE  AND  FORGIVENESS 

And  so  he  went  on.  I  cannot  remember  all  of  the  teachings,  but 
he  continued  in  this  way,  telling  me  that  he  could  never  have  given 
me  that  experience,  that  he  could  not  give  to  me  a  testimony  of  the 
gospel ;  that  I  must  receive  that  testimony  for  myself ;  that  I  must 
have  the  right  spirit  come  into  my  heart  and  feel  it — the  spirit  of  for- 
giveness, the  spirit  of  long-suffering  and  charity — before  there  would 
any  good  come  to  me  as  an  individual ;  that  by  simply  surrendering 
my  will  to  his,  and  voting  to  baptize  this  man,  I  would  never  have 
learned  the  lesson  that  the  spirit  of  joy  and  peace  comes  in  the  hour  of 
forgiveness,  and  when  our  hearts  are  full  of  charity  and  long-suffering 
to  those  who  have  made  mistakes.  From  that  day  to  this  I  have  re- 
membered those  teachings. 

The  Prophet  of  the  Lord  said : 

My  boy,  never  forget  that  when  you  are  in  the  line  of  your  duty 
your  heart  will  be  full  of  love  and  forgiveness,  even  for  the  repentant  sin- 
ner, and  that  when  you  get  out  of  that  straight  line  of  duty  and  have  the 
determination  that  what  you  think  is  justice  and  what  you  think  is  equity 
and  right  should  prevail,  you  ofttimes  are  anything  but  happy.  You 
can  know  the  difference  between  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  the  spirit  of 
the  adversary,  when  you  find  that  you  are  happy  and  contented,  that  you 
love  your  fellows,  that  you  are  anxious  for  their  welfare;  and  you  can  tell 
that  you  do  not  have  that  spirit  when  you  are  full  of  animosity  and  feel 
that  you  would  like  to  knock  somebody  down. 

I  am  reminded  of  one  of  the  finest  chapters  in  all  the  Bible  (1 
Cor.  13) : 

Though  I  speak  with  the  tongues  of  men  and  of  angels,  and  have  not 
charity,  I  am  become  as  sounding  brass,  or  a  tinkling  cymbal. 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


And  though  I  have  the  gift  of  prophecy,  and  understand  all  mysteries, 
and  all  knowledge;  and  though  I  have  all  faith,  so  that  I  could  remove 
mountains,  and  have  not  charity,  I  am  nothing. 

And  though  I  bestow  all  my  goods  to  feed  the  poor,  and  though  I 
give  my  body  to  be  burned,  and  have  not  charity,  it  profiteth  me  nothing. 

Charity,  suffereth  long,  and  is  kind;  charity  envieth  not;  charity 
vaunteth  not  itself,  is  not  puffed  up, 

Doth  not  behave  itself  unseemly,  seeketh  not  her  own.  is  not  easily  pro- 
voked, thinketh  no  evil; 

Rejoiceth  not  in  iniquity,  but  rejoiceth  in  the  truth: 

Beareth  all  things,  believeth  all  things,  hopeth  all  things,  endureth  all 
things. 

Charity  never  faileth;  but  whether  there  be  prophecies,  they  shall  fail; 
whether  there  be  tongues,  they  shall  cease;  whether  there  be  knowledge, 
it  shall  vanish  away. 

For  we  know  in  part,  and  we  prophesy  in  part. 

But  when  that  which  is  perfect  is  come,  then  that  which  is  in  part 
shall  be  done  away. 

When  I  was  a  child,  I  spake  as  a  child,  I  understood  as  a  child,  I 
thought  as  a  child;  but  when  I  became  a  man,  I  put  away  childish  things. 

For  now  we  see  through  a  glass,  darkly;  but  then  face  to  face;  now 
I  know  in  part;  but  then  shall  I  know  even  as  also  I  am  known. 

And  now  abideth  faith,  hope,  charity,  these  three;  but  the  greatest  of 
these  is  charity. 

Many  people  imagine  that  charity  is  giving  a  dollar  to  somebody ; 
but  real,  genuine  charity  is  giving  love  and  sympathy,  and  that  is  the 
kind  of  charity  that  the  apostle  had  reference  to  in  this  13th  chapter  of 
First  Corinthians. 

I  remember  that  after  that  teaching  given  to  me  as  a  young  man, 
as  a  boy,  almost,  by  the  President  of  the  Church,  I  read  this 
chapter  about  once  a  week  for  quite  a  while,  then  once  a  month  for 
several  months.  I  thought  I  needed  it  in  my  business,  so  to  speak ;  that 
it  was  one  of  the  things  that  were  necessary  for  my  advancement. 

I  remember  that  a  year  ago,  here  at  the  conference,  I  read  a  very 
splendid  and  wonderful  song,  the  half  of  the  first  verse  of  which  reads 
as  follows: 

Let  each  man  learn  to  know  himself,  , 
To  gain  that  knowledge  let  him  labor, 

Improve  those  failings  in  himself 

That  he  condemns  so  in  his  neighbor. 

The  whole  poem  was  published  in  the  conference  pamphlet.  I 
quoted  it  some  weeks  ago,  and  was  asked  where  one  could  get  a 
copy,  and  again  last  Sunday,  when  I  told  some  people  that  they  could 
read  it  in  next  Saturday  night's  News.  So  I  shall  not  take  up  your  time 
by  quoting  the  whole  poem.  I  also  quoted  the  four  short  verses  from 
our  hymn  on  page  66,  a  part  of  which  reads  as  follows : 

Should  you  feel  inclined  to  censure 

Faults  you  may  in  others  view, 
Ask  your  own  heart,  ere  you  venture, 

If  that  has  not  failings  too. 

I  had  not  the  slightest  idea  when  I  quoted  these  poems,  that  I 
would  desire  to  quote  from  them  again  today ;  but  in  view  of  the  con- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  L  GRANT 


9 


demtiation  and  the  spirit,  almost,  of  animosity,  and  hate  that  seems  to 
be  manifested  by  some  people  among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  at  the 
present  time,  regarding  business  and  political  affairs,  I  desire  to  em- 
phasize, with  all  the  power  of  my  being,  the  last  verse  of  that  little 
hymn,  on  page  66: 

Do  not  form  opinions  blindly, 

Hastiness  to  trouble  tends, 
Those  of  whom  we  thought  unkindly 

Oft  become  our  warmest  friends. 

EVERY  MAN  INNOCENT  UNTIL  PROVED  GUILTY 

There  are  a  great  many  people  who  believe  that  if  a  person  is 
indicted,  he  is  undoubtedly  a  criminal.  There  are  very  few  people  who 
stop  to  reflect  upon  the  fact  that  when  a  Grand  Jury  finds  an  in- 
dictment against  any  man,  it  is  seldom,  if  ever,  the  case  that  he  is 
permitted  to  appear  before  the  Grand  Jury,  or  to  have  a  representative 
there  to  state  his  case.  The  law  itself  provides — as  I  understand  it — 
although  I  am  not  a  lawyer — that  every  man  shall  be  considered  in- 
nocent until  such  time  as  he  is  proved  guilty ;  and  no  man  is  guilty,  in 
the  true  sense  of  the  word,  of  an  offense,  just  because  a  Grand  Jury 
finds  an  indictment  against  him.  In  criminal  cases  a  man  is  to  be  con- 
sidered innocent  unless  the  evidence  against  him  shall  be  so  conclusive 
that  there  is  not  even  a  reasonable  doubt  as  to  his  guilt.  Certainly 
Latter-day  Saints  ought  to  be  as  liberal  in  their  judgments,  as  the 
cold  law  of  the  land;  and  certainly  every  man  ought  to  be  considered 
innocent  in  the  estimation  of  the  Latter-day  Saints — particularly  if 
that  man  is  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  and  has  devoted  his  life  for  the  up-building  of  God's  kingdom 
until  such  time  as  he  has  what  is  known  as  "his  day  in  court."  We 
can  afford,  I  believe,  to  be  as  liberal  as  the  cold  law  itself. 

I  desire  to  repeat  the  last  verse  of  that  excellent  hymn,  which  I 
learned  thirty-five  or  forty  years  ago,  when  Francis  M>.  Lyman  first 
sang  it  for  me.  I  wrote  it  that  very  night,  and  learned  it  the  next 
day.  I  would  like  every  Latter-day  Saint  to  apply  the  teachings  of 
this  splendid  verse  in  his  or  her  life,  and  if  we  do  that  I  believe  we  will 
grow  in  love  and  charity;  that  the  spirit  of  peace  and  happiness,  that 
President  Taylor  promised  me  when  I  entertained  the  feeling  of  deter- 
mination to  keep  a  man  out  of  the  Church,  and  the  spirit  of  joy  and 
peace  which  came  to  me,  after  the  change  of  heart,  will  come  to  Lat- 
ter-day Saints: 

And  in  self-judgment,  if  you  find 

Your  deeds  to  others  are  superior, 
To  you  has  Providence  been  kind, 

As  you  should  be  to  those  inferior. 
Example  sheds  a  genial  ray 

Of  light,  which  men  are  apt  to  borrow, 
So  first  improve  yourself  today 

And  then  improve  your  friends  tomorrow. 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


REGRETS  THAT  THE  LEAGUE  OF  NATIONS  QUESTION  IS  IN  POLITICS 

A  year  ago,  at  our  conference,  I  expressed  sincerely  my  regrets 
that  bitterness  was  being  engendered  in  the  hearts  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  because  what  was  known  as  the  League  of  Nations  had  been 
injected  into  politics.  I  expressed  my  sincere  regrets  that  this  great 
document  should  ever  have  been  made  a  subject  for  political  dis- 
cussion. I  felt  that  all  people  in  these  United  States  of  America  should 
approach  the  consideration  of  this  great  document,  independent  of 
party  affiliation.  I  desire  to  express  my  regrets  that,  if  anything,  it  is 
in  politics  more  today  than  it  was  a  year  ago. 

I  sincerely  regret  that  what  is  known  as  the  "sugar  question" 
has  been  injected  into  politics,  in  this  State  of  Utah.  I  feel  in  my 
heart  of  hearts  that  it  has  engendered  bitterness,  that  it  has  created 
a  great  deal  of  animosity,  and  I  think  it  is  something  that  ought  to 
have  been  eliminated  from  politics,  and  that  all  questions  of  that  kind 
-:hould  be  settled  by  the  interested  people.  I  desire,  beyond  my  power 
to  tell,  that  there  shall  always  be  perfect  harmony  and  perfect  justice 
between  the  farmer  and  the  sugar  producer.  I  desire  that  all  judg- 
ments by  Latter-day  Saints  upon  the  course  of  men  connected  with 
any  industry  in  this  state,  shall  be  withheld,  at  least,  until  there  has 
been  passed  a  final  judgment  by  a  court  that  has  the  right  to  pass  up- 
on it. 

T  wish  to  say  to  all  Latter-day  Saints: 

Judge  not,  that  ye  be  not  judged.  For  with  what  judgment  ye  judge, 
ye  shall  be  judged;  and  with  what  measure  ye  mete,  it  shall  be  measured 
to  you  again. 

KEEP  THE  COMMANDMENTS  OF  GOD 

I  beg  every  Latter-day  Saint  to  cultivate  the  spirit  of  charity, 
of  long-suffering,  and  brotherly  love.  I  say  to  all  Latter-day  Saints : 
Keep  the  commandments  of  God.  That  is  my  keynote  speech,  just 
those  few  words:  Keep  the  commandments  of  God.  Read  the  psalm 
that  tells  you  not  to  fret  your  soul  about  the  sinner.  It  is  a  magnifi- 
cent psalm  to  read.  I  thought  some  of  reading  it  here  to  this  congre- 
gation, but  I  have  read  so  much  that  I  am  afraid  you  will  get  tired  of 
the  reading.  Keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  Be  honest  with 
God.  Never  fail  to  pay  an  honest  tithing  to  the  Lord,  on  every  dol- 
lar that  comes  into  your  hands.  "Oh  but,"  says  one,  "the  Church  does 
not  need  it."  You  are  right;  you  are  correct.  The  Church  does  not 
need  it,  but  the  man  who  has  made  covenant  with  the  living  God  to 
keep  his  commandments,  and  then  does  not  keep  them,  he  needs  it.  A 
man  who  is  not  honest  with  the  Lord  should  repent  and  be  honest  with 
the  Lord,  and  then  the  windows  of  heaven  shall  open  and  God  will 
pour  down  upon  the  heads  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  blessings,  if  they 
are  financially  honest  with  the  Lord.  Observe  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom. Never  indulge  in  those  things  that  the  Lord  God  Almighty, 
the  Creator  of  heaven  and  earth,  has  told  us  are  not  good  for  man. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


CONCLUSION 

I  rejoice  that  we  have  national  prohibition.  I  rejoice  that  many, 
even  in.  our  own  community,  who  were  wrecks  financially,  almost 
wrecks  spiritually,  because  of  prohibition  and  the  taking  away  of 
temptation,  are  making  men  of  themselves  today.  I  rejoice  that  pro- 
hibition— to  my  mind  the  greatest  financial  and  moral  blessing  that 
has  ever  come  to  humanity: — has  come  to  the  people  of  the  United 
States,  and  I  hope  and  pray  that  it  may  soon  come  to  every  nation 
under  heaven. 

I  rejoice  that  the  women  have  the  franchise.  I  rejoice  in  all  of 
the  great  and  wonderful  advancements  that  are  being  made  for  the 
benefit  of  mankind;  and  I  rejoice,  above  all  things,  in  a  knowledge 
that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet 
of  the  true  and  living  God ;  that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  plan 
of  life  and  salvation,  has  been  restored  to  the  earth.  I  rejoice  that 
you  and  I  have  a  knowledge  of  that  gospel ;  and  oh,  may  God  help 
us  to  live  it ;  may  he  fill  our  hearts  with  charity,  with  love,  with  for- 
giveness, with  the  desire  to  serve  him,  and  may  we  in  very  deed  be 
Latter-day  Saints,  is  my  prayer  and  desire,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  duet,  "I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives,"  was  sung  by  J.  R. 
Boshard  and  Elizabeth  Evans. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND 

I  have  listened  with  much  attention  to  our  President's  remarks, 
and  I  hope  that  every  heart  will  retain  the  good  counsel  he  has  given, 
and  that  all  will  remember  it  and  make  it  the  moving  principle  of 
their  lives. 

KEY  WORDS  OF  THE  CONFERENCE 

Love  and  charity,  forgiveness,  and  doing  our  duties  that  the  Lord 
has  laid  upon  us  are  the  key  words  or  the  key1  note  to  this  conference. 
You  who  have  had  much  experience  in  life  know  the  truth  of  what 
the  president  has  expressed.  In  our  intercourse  with  one  another  it 
often  happens  that  a  word  may  displease  us,  or  the  act  of  our  brother 
cause  us  to  blame  him,  and,  perhaps,  enlarge  upon  what  he  has  done 
until  we  make  it  almost  a  crime.  We  ought  to  be  careful  not  to  let 
anything  like  this  cause  bitterness  and  hatred  in  our  hearts,  for  as  the 
president  read  to  us,  the  Lord  will  forgive  whom  he  will  forgive, 
but  he  commands  us  that  we  shall  forgive  one  another.  This  is  a 
beautiful  principle.  When  we  remember  the  relationship  in  which  we 
stand  to  our  heavenly  Father  and  to  his  children  we  ought  to  practice 
the  principle  of  charity  toward  one  another.  We  generally  love  our 
own  brothers  and  sisters,  we  are  tender  about  what  is  said  concern- 
ing them,  we  even  feel  anything  said  derogatory  to  their  character  to 
be  almost  the  same  as  if  it  were  said  about  our  own.    As  we  feel  to- 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ward  our  own  brothers  and  sisters,  so  we  should  likewise  feel  towards 
Dur  brethren  and  sisters  in  the  covenant  and  for  all  men.  We  should 
not  let  hatred  enter  our  hearts.  Let  us  forgive  others  their  offenses 
'n  the  hope  that  we  can  have  forgiveness  for  our  own. 

BLESSEDNESS  OF  CHARITY  AND  FORGIVENESS 

The  scriptures  give  us  many  examples  of  the  blessedness  of  charity 
and  forgiveness.  I  recall  the  story  of  David  and  Saul.  Saul  had 
learned  that  David  had  been  anointed  to  become  king  of  Israel.  Al- 
though at  one  time  he  loved  David,  and  David  had  been  able  with  his 
singing  and  his  harp  to  drive  out  the  evil  spirit  from  the  old  king, 
yet  when  the  king  heard  of  the  destiny  of  his  own  house,  that  his  son 
was  not  to  rule  in  Israel,  that  the  kingdom  was  to  be  given  to  David, 
his  heart  was  filled  with  hatred.  He  took  three  thousand  men  and 
went  down  into  the  southern  part  of  Palestine,  among  the  mountains, 
hunting  for  David  and  the  few  followers  he  had  with  him,  determined 
to  kill  him.  Saul  entered  a  cave  where  David  and  his  associates  were 
hiding.  David  knew  the  king  had  come  to  make  him  a  captive  and 
to  take  his  life;  yet  he  would  not  hurt  Saul,  because  he  was  the 
anointed  of  the  Lord.  He  cut  off  the  skirt  of  Saul's  robe  and  left  the 
cave.  In  the  morning  when  the  king  left  the  cave  David  cried  to  him 
and  showed  him  what  he  had  done.  The  king  felt  repentant  for  a 
little  while.  He  knew  he  had  been  in  the  power  of  the  man  whose 
life  he  sought,  and  he  acknowledged  that  David  was  more  just  than 
himself.  He  saw  that  David  had  not  exercised  the  power  he  had  to 
kill  the  one  who  sought  his  life.  David  felt  reverence  for  the  man  who 
had  been  anointed  by  a  prophet  of  God.  I  am  sorry  to  say  that  Saul's 
good  mood  did  not  last  long,  but  still  there  was  a  moment  when  he 
felt  the  power  of  forgiveness  working  upon  him. 

SCRIPTURAL  EXAMPLES 

Jesus  in  one  of  his  parables  tells  about  the  servant  that  owed 
his  master  a  great  sum  of  money,  so  much  that  he  could  never  pay 
it,  but  because  of  his  pleading  his  master  forgave  him  and  let  him  go. 
When  going  from  his  master's  house  he  met  a  man  who  owed  him  a 
very  small  amount.  The  servant  that  had  been  forgiven  so  much 
was  not  willing  to  forgive  this  other  man  the  small  amount  that  he 
owed,  and  being  unable  to  pay  the  wicked  servant  cast  him  into  prison 
until  he  could  pay  the  debt.  When  the  master  heard  of  this  unfor- 
giving man's  act  he  called  him  back  and  measured  out  to  him  his 
punishment  for  being  so  hard-hearted  and  so  ungrateful  for  the  bless- 
ings he  had  received. 

Jesus  taught  his  disciples  how  to  pray,  and  one  part  of  that 
prayer  is,  "Forgive  us  our  debts,  as  we  forgive  our  debtors."  That 
is  the  principle.  We  all  know  how  greatly  we  are  indebted  to  our 
heavenly  Father,  and  remembering  this  we  ought  to  be  willing  to  for- 
give all  men  their  trespasses  against  us. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND 


13 


CHRIST  SET  THE  GREATEST  EXAMPLE  OF  ALL 

Let  us  not  entertain  hatred  against  anyone,  whether  he  is  con- 
nected with  the  Church  or  not.  That  feeling  ought  not  to  be  harbored 
in  our  breasts.  Let  us  rather  feel  to  imitate  our  great  Master.  He 
not  only  taught,  as  he  did  in  the  parable  just  related,  the  necessity 
and  the  importance  of  forgiving  others  as  we  want  to  be  forgiven,  but 
he  showed  forth  this  spirit  in  his  life.  When  he  was  crucified  at 
Golgotha — and  it  is  said  that  the  suffering  of  crucifixion  is  the  keen-' 
est  kind  of  torture — suffering  intensely  and  knowing  that  he  was  in- 
nocent, and  that  those,  for  whom  he  had  labored  and  desired  greatly 
to  save,  had  hung  him  on  that  accursed  tree,  he  did  not  ask  the  Lord 
to  take  revenge  upon  them,  but  asked  his  Father  in  heaven,  "For- 
give them,  for  they  know  not  what  they  do."  Just  think  of  his  ask- 
ing for  their  forgiveness  when  he  was  under  such  intense  suffering 
on  the  cross !  There  is  the  example  for  us.  We  must  exercise 
charity  for  one  another  and  avoid  letting  ill-feelings  rankle  in  our 
hearts  against  any  person. 

LET  CHARITY  DRIVE  OUT  BITTERNESS 

We  have  not  the  right  to  hate  any  of  the  creatures  of  God,  but 
we  have  been  commanded  to  love  them,  and  also  to  forgive  them  if 
they  have  offended  us.  I  believe  that  you  can  put  this  down  as  a 
principle,  that  to  start  with  there  are  very  few  offenders  who  wilfully 
intend  to  offend,  not  having  given  full  thought  to  their  acts.  They 
do  something  that  offends  us,  and  we  at  once  feel  offended  and  angry 
and,  perhaps,  we  let  it  grow  to  that  greater  amount  of  anger  that  we 
call  hatred.  This  should  not  be.  Perhaps  if  we  had  spoken  to  our 
brother  at  once  we  would  have  learned  that  he  did  not  really  mean 
what  we  thought  he  did,  and  that  we  have  become  offended  too  hastily. 
Let  us  have  enough  charity  for  one  another  that  we  will  not  allow  any- 
thing to  be  an  offense  to  cause  us  hardness  of  heart. 

FORGIVENESS  AND  CHARITY  BRING  HAPPINESS 

I  remember  once  I  went  with  President  Grant  and  two  others  of 
the  apostles  to  investigate  complaints  against  a  certain  bishop.  Among 
those  opposed  to  the  bishop  was  a  man  who  had  much  influence  with 
the  people.  He  and  the  bishop  almost  hated  each  other.  We  brought 
them  together,  they  freely  expressed  their  feelings  and  what  had  caused 
them.  We  acted  as  peacemakers,  and  when  they  saw  their  error,  with 
tears  in  their  eyes  they  clasped  hands  and  forgave  each  other.  It 
was  a  touching  scene  and  joy  filled  all  our  hearts.  After  that  the 
bishop  was  reconciled  to  his  opposers.  Now,  brethren  and  sisters, 
those  men  felt  happy  afterwards.  They  felt  that  they  had  suffered  foi 
a  long  time  from  something  that  they  ought  not  to  have  borne  in 
their  hearts.  As  President  Grant  has  told  us,  anyone  who  forgives 
his  enemy  or  his  brother  what  he  has  done  against  him  feels  joy  ir. 
his  heart  and  the  spirit  whispers  that  he  has  done  the  right  thing. 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Now,  let  us  learn  to  have  charity  for  one  another,  and  carry  it 
out  in  our  every-day  lives,  and  we  will  make  life  happy  to  ourselves 
and  to  our  neig-hbors  and  our  path  will  be  much  smoother. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  do  our  duties  in  all  the  different  lines 
of  work  given  us,  and  may  we  ever  remember  what  we  owe  to  our 
heavenly  Father  and  try  to  show  love  to  our  brethren  and  sisters. 
I  ask  the  Lord  to  help  us  in  this  matter,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 

I  feel  exceedingly  thankful  this  morning  for  this  great  privilege 
of  meeting  with  the  Latter-day  Saints,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  once 
more  in  general  conference.  I  have  not  fully  known  for  a  fact  that 
T  would  be  able  to  be  here  on  this  occasion.  For  several  days  past  I 
have  not  been  in  my  usual  health  and  vigor,  but  thanks  be  to  the 
Lord  for  this  great  blessing  to  me  this  morning. 

I  have  listened  to  words  of  life,  eternal  life,  from  the  man  who 
stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church  to  which  we,  most  of  us,  if  not  all, 
belong.  We  have  felt  that  the  Lord  has  been  with  him  in  the  instruc- 
tions which  have  been  imparted,  and  that  the  same  spirit  and  power 
which  always  belong  to  the  leader  of  the  Church  have  been  with  him 
in  talking  to  us  today,  as  they  were  in  years  that  are  past,  from  the 
days  of  President  Rrigham  Yioung  to  his  successors  in  office  down  to 
the  present  moment.  T  cannot  speak  personally  of  the  influence  and 
power  that  attended  the  Prophet  Joseph,  whom  God  raised  up  when 
a  youth  to  open  up  the  latter-day  dispensation — but  I  am  familiar 
with  his  words  that  have  been  recorded,  that  have  been  published, 
and  that  are  contained  in  the  history  of  the  Church  and  in  many 
manuscript  documents  which  the  Church  possesses.  But  I  know  that 
the  same  spirit  that  burned  in  his  soul,  and  with  which  he  inspired  the 
Saints  of  God  who  were  placed  under  his  direction,  has  been  with 
us  right  down  to  the  present  time  since,  his  martyrdom. 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  LOVE  AND  CHARITY,  THE  SPIRIT  OF  THE  GOSPEL 

This  morning  I  feel  that  that  spirit  is  here  in  great  power,  and 
the  words  that  have  been  spoken  to  us  have  been  given  to  us  in 
great  plainness.  We  can  all  understand  them,  and  we  can  appreciate 
the  spirit  by  which  they  have  been  delivered.  The  spirit  of  love 
and  charity  is  the  spirit  of  the  gospel.  This  is  what  Christ  breathed. 
That  is  what  his  apostles  carried  with  them  except  on  occasions  when 
they  became  a  little  dissatisfied  with  each  other,  and  spoke  against 
each  other.  Even  Paul,  the  great  apostle,  as  we  call  him  because 
he  wrote  so  much,  dissented  with  Peter  and  boasted  that  he  had 
charged  him  to  his  face  with  doing  something  that  he  thought  was 
wrong;  and  yet  Paul  himself  comjmitted  the  same  kind  of  error,  if  it 
was  an  error — of  course  it  was  not — in  regard  to  Timothy  and  in  re- 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 


15 


gard  to  other  matters  that  came  before  his  attention.  Later  he  ar- 
rived at  the  position  that  "to  a  Jew  he  was  a  Jew ;  to  the  Greek  he 
was  a  Greek ;"  and  he  became  "all  things  unto  all  men,  that  he  might 
win  some  unto  Christ;"  yet  for  one  little  act  not  in  variance  with 
that,  he  found  fault  with  Peter.  But  that  is  only  a  side  question.  The 
apostles  of  old,  as  we  have  heard  this  morning  from  the  revelation 
that  President  Grant  has  read,  differed  from  each  other  sometimes ; 
and  they  found  fault  with  each  other;  but,  as  the  Lord  said,  the  great 
fault  was  that  they  did  not  forgive  each  other  "in  their  hearts." 
They  might  do  it  with  their  lips  and  by  the  clasping  of  their  hands, 
but  they  did  not  forgive  each  other  in  their  hearts,  and  therefore 
"they  were  sorely  afflicted." 

LET  US  FORGIVE  IN  OUR  HEARTS 

Now,  Latter-day  Saints,  let  us  take  that  lesson  to  our  hearts.  If 
we  are  offended  with  any  one,  if  we  feel  that  somebody  has  grieved 
us  or  oppressed  us,  done  us  some  wrong,  let  us  forgive  them  in  our 
hearts,  if  we  want  to  be  called  saints  of  the  Most  High  and  so  re- 
garded by  the  powers  on  high.  It  is  in  the  soul  of  man  where  this 
feeling  of  charity  should  prevail,  which  is  not  merely  the  kind  of 
charity  that  is  shown  forth  in  giving  alms  to  the  poor,  or  anything  of 
that  kind.  That  is  only  a  very  small  manifestation.  It  is  the  spirit 
of  brotherhood,  the  spirit  of  kindness,  the  spirit  of  forgiveness  in  our 
hearts,  that  we  must  entertain,  towards  one  another,  that  counts.  I 
have  had  considerable  experience  in  high  councils,  in  the  course  of 
my  activities  in  the  Church,  and  I  have  seen  people  who  were  re- 
quired to  forgive  one  another  arise  and  shake  hands,  and  then  go  forth 
with  the  same  spirit  of  bitterness  in  their  souls  that  they  had  in  the 
beginning,  so  that  their  feelings  of  repentance  and  charity  were  not 
genuine  and  did  not  count. 

I  remember  one  particular  case  that  occurred,  not  a  thousand 
miles  from  Salt  Lake,  when  two  brethren  engaged  the  high  council 
a  whole  week  in  settling  a  difficulty  about  sheep.  We  used  to  have 
a  great  many  difficulties  on  the  sheep  question.  After  we  had  spent 
all  that  time  in  regard  to  it  a  certain  division  was  made  and  a  con- 
clusion arrived  at  by  the  high  council.  Fifteen  men,  all  desirous  of 
doing  right,  having  no  personal  interest  in  the  matter  except  to  do 
right,  the  Presidency  and  the  High  Council  together,  made  a  de- 
cision, and  the  brethren  who  had  quarreled  so  much  were  required 
to  shake  hands  in  agreement  over  the  decision,  which  they  did.  At 
the  closing  of  the  meeting  one  of  them  said  to  the  other;  "Well,  I  will 
shake  hands  with  you ;  I  will  forgive  you,  but  I  will  have  them  there 
sheep  in  the  resurrection,  with  interest !" 

THE  DOCTRINE  DECLARED  BY  THE  LORD 

I  wish  to  read  a  little  scripture  contained  in  the  same  writings 
from  which  President  Grant  read  this  morning.    Christ's  remarks 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


in  regard  to  judging  are  to  be  found  in  the  7th  chapter  of  Matthew. 
"Judge  not,  that  ye  be  not  judged,"  that  is  in  the  first  verse.  I  advise 
my  friends  here  to  read  the  whole  of  the  discourse,  so  far  as  it  re- 
lates to  that  matter;  and  now  I  want  to  read  just  a  verse  or  two  from 
the  eighteenth  chapter  of  Matthew : 

Moreover,  if  thy  brother  shall  trespass  against  thee,  go  and  tell  him 
his  fault  between  thee  and  him  alone;  if  he  shall  hear  thee,  thou  hast 
gained  thy  brother. 

But  if  he  will  not  hear  thee,  then  take  with  thee  one  or  twa  more,  that 
in  the  mouth  of  two  or  three  witnesses  every  word  may  be  established. 

And  if  he  shall  neglect  to  hear  them,  tell  it  unto  the  Church:  but  if  he 
neglect  to  hear  the  Church,  let  him  be  unto  thee  as  a  heathen  man  and 
a  publican. 

You  know  the  publicans  in  those  times  were  tax  collectors,  and 
they  were  not  very  popular,  any  more  than  they  are  now,  most  of 
them. 

This  is  the  doctrine  enunciated  by  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  when 
on  earth,  and  that  is  now  established  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  It  is  another  side  to  this  question,  perhaps,  a 
little.  The  principle  expressed  to  us  this  morning  by  President  Grant 
and  President  Lund  is  what  we  need  to  carry  away  in  our  hearts 
from  this  conference.  It  is  a  key-note  to  our  services,  just  as  Brother 
Lund  said.  I  have  felt  that,  and  I  appreciate  these  things  that  have 
been  said  by  the  President  more  because  of  the  opportunity  that  I 
have  had  for  a  few  days  past  of  thinking  over  matters  when  I  was 
awake.  I  was  asleep  about  half  the  time,  but  while  I  was  awake  the 
very  passages  that  he  has  cited  here,  and  some  of  the  hymns  that  he 
has  referred  to,  have  passed  over  my  mind  and  I  have  felt  in  my  soul 
that  this  is  the  word  to  be  carried  to  all  Israel — the  spirit  of  charity 
and  brotherly  love,  which  promotes  real  union.  We  must  not  become 
divided  in  our  souls,  in  our  spiritual  natures,  in  our  intercourse  with 
each  other.  We  may  hold  different  views  of  certain  matters  that  I 
will  not  even  allude  to  here  this  morning,  but  that  should  not  affect 
our  brotherhood,  our  real  sentiments  of  kindness  and  of  charity  to- 
wards each  other,  and  it  should  not  affect  us  when  we  attempt  to 
pass  judgment  and  have  no  right  to  do  it. 

PASSING  JUDGMENT  ON  OUR  NEIGHBOR 

There  is  the  point  I  want  to  draw  your  attention  to.  We  Hot 
only  want  to  entertain  this  spirit  of  kindness  and  charity,  but  even 
when  we  think  certain  persons  have  done  something  that  is  wrong,  and 
that  it  affects  us — "When  thy  brother  trespasseth  against  thee," — as 
Jesus  puts  it,  have  we  the  right  to  pass  judgment  upon  him.,  even  in 
our  minds?  No  we  have  not.  The  principle  of  justice  and  of  mercy 
together  will  say :  "Let  that  man  stand  uncondemned  until  he  can 
defend  himself."  The  stream  of  accusation  is  frequently  very  shal- 
low, and  underneath  it  sometimes  He  dark  purposes,  and  they  are 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 


17 


revealed  when  the  person  is  placed  on  his  defense  and  has  the  oppor- 
tunity of  explaining.    As  I  say  in  one  of  my  little  songs : 

School  thy  feelings; 

Condemnation  never  pass  on  friend  or  foe, 
Though  the  tide  of  accusation 

Like  a  flood  of  truth  may  flow. 

Hear  defense  before  deciding, 

Aiid  a  ray  of  light  may  gleam, 
Showing  thee  what  filth  is  hiding, 

Underneath  the  shallow  stream 

The  Lord  has  provided  in  his  Church  that  justice  shall  be  done, 
but  it  does  not  exclude  mercy,  of  course.  We  have  a  splendid  illus- 
tration of  the  exercise  of  mercy  in  that  case  that  Brother  Grant  has 
told  us  about,  in  regard  to  what  President  John  Taylor  taught  him. 
But  people  say  sometimes  when  aggrieved:  "If  that  is  'Mbrmonism' 
I  don't  want  to  have  anything  to  do  with  it."  What  a  foolish  thing. 
Does  "Mormonism"  in  any  respect  condone  iniquity?  Does  it  approve 
of  oppression?  Does  it  approve  of  injustice?  Does  it  approve  of  one 
man  doing  wrong  to  another  in  any  way,  without  recompense  and 
making  it  right?  It  does  not.  People  sometimes  say,  "Well,  if  that 
is  what  the  Church  allows  I  am  not  going  to  church."  Oh,  what  folly 
— not  going  to  church?  Are  you  going  to  hurt  yourselves?  You  hurt 
yourself  when  you  do  not  fulfil  the  requirement  of  God  to  go  up  to 
the  house  of  prayer  on  the  Lord's  day,  as  he  has  commanded.  You 
hart  yourself  if  you  hold  the  Priesthood  of  the  living  God  and  you 
do  not  attend  your  quorum  meetings  and  observe  the  duties  that  be- 
long to  you,  you  are^  of  fending  yourself,  you  are  doing  harm  to  your- 
self. The  Church  has  got  so  big  now  and  so  powerful,  financially 
and  otherwise — although  it  is  pretty  well  up  to  the  mark  now  in  its 
finances' — yet  it  has  advanced  so  far  that  it  can  do  without  you  or  me 
or  anybody  else.  When  we  neglect  a  duty  we  neglect  something 
that  benefits  ourselves,  and  we  are  the  worse  for  it.  So  much  for 
that. 

THE  CHURCH  PROVIDES  FOR  HEARING  WHERE  JUSTICE  IS  DONE 

But  the  Church  supplies  the  means  whereby  everybody  who  is 
oppressed  or  trespassed  against  can  receive  a  hearing,  and  get  justice 
done.  In  what  I  have  cited  the  Lord  lays  down  the  principle,  and 
we  have  that  embodied  in  the  organization  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  have  a  body  of  men  who  go  from 
house  to  house  to  visit  the  Saints.  We  call  them  teachers.  Well, 
they  are,  but  this  belongs  to  the  duty  of  the  priest,  as  you  will  read 
in  the  twentieth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  The  priest's 
duty  is  to  preach  and  teach  and  expound  and  baptize  and  to  "visit 
the  house  of  each  member,  and  exhort  them  to  pray  vocally  and  in 
secret,  and  attend  to  all  family  duties,"  and  so  on.   That  is  his  duty. 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


In  addition  to  that  the  Lord  says  the  teacher's  duty  is  to  watch 
over  the  Church  and  be  with  the  Church  always,  and  to  see  that  there 
is  no  iniquity  in  the  Church,  neither  hardness  of  heart,  nor  evil  speak- 
ing. Why  is  it  a  sin?  Because  the  great  body  of  the  people  have 
been  into  the  house  of  the  Lord,  and  they  have  made  a  covenant  that 
they  will  not  speak  evil  of  the  Lord's  anointed,  have  they  not  ?  Take  it 
to  hea'rt !  Are  we  not  under  a  covenant  with  the  Lord  that  we  will 
not  speak  evil  of  his  anointed?  Well,  when  we  do  that  we  break  that 
covenant.  We  sin  against  that  commandment  of  the  Lord.  So  we 
should  not  do  it  .But  some  may  say,  "Well,  I  have  a  reason  for  it." 
Well,  if  you  have  a  reason,  do  as  Jesus  says.  Here  are  persons  ap- 
pointed in  the  Church  who  will  go  with  you  to  the  individual  that  has 
trespassed'  against  you,  or  if  you  will  do  your  duty  properly  you  will 
begin  by  going  to  that  person  alone. 

THP  PLAN  TO  BE  PURSUED 

I  have  heard  some  awful  things  said  about  mighty  good  men  in 
this  Church,  men  of  influence  and  'authority  and  power  in  the 
Church.  I  have  heard  shameful  things  about  them,  said  unwittingly, 
perhaps,  but  very  disgracefully.  Have  persons  who  used  such  lan- 
guage gone  to  the  individual  who,  they  think,  has  been  oppressive 
to  them,  or  has  done  them  harm  or  trespassed  against  them, — and 
talked  the  matter  over  with  him  alone?  No,  oh,  no,  oh,  no.  They 
have  said,  "He  ought  to  be  in  the  penitentiary."  Well,  that  is  not 
the  right  kind  of  talk  for  a  Latter-day  Saint,  and  especially  for  an 
elder  in  Israel,  a  bishop's  counselor,  or  a  high  councilor,  very  wrong 
indeed  in  its  nature.  Here  is  the  plan:  If  any  man  has  trespassed 
against  you,  go  to  him  in  the  spirit  of  kindness  because  you  want 
the  thing  put  right,  and  explain  to  him  where  you  think  he 
has  done  you  a  wrong,  and  see  whether  he  has  done  you  a 
wrong  or  not ,  or  whether  you  may  not  be  mistaken.  But 
if  you  will  not  do  that,  which  is  the  great  commandment, 
then  get  the  teachers,  or  men  that  are  acting  as  teachers,  two 
of  them,  to  go  with  you  and  see  him,  talk  it  over  and  find  out  what 
the  ftfcts  are  in  the  matter,  and  see  if  you  cannot  be  reconciled  with 
your  brother.  If  you  can,  then  the  Lord  says  you  have  "gained  your 
brother."  He  may  repent,  if  he  has  done  wrong,  or  he  will  explain, 
or  have  the  opportunity  of  explaining  where  he  is  right.  Now,  let 
us  apply  that  to  present  conditions  and  circumstances,  and  do  not 
go  away  and  repeat  these  things  again.  Do  not  speak  evil  of  your 
brother ;  become  reconciled  to  him  if  you  can,  and  if  you  cannot, 
why,  get  some  wise  man  to  go  with  you  and  talk  it  over.  What  then  ? 
Well,  if  he  does  not  see  it  as  you  do,  but  insists  that  he  is  in  the 
right  and  you  are  in  the  wrong,  what  is  the  next  step?  Why,  there 
is  a  court,  we  call  it  a  bishop's  court.  The  bishop,  who  is  a  common 
judge  in  Israel,  by  appointment,  the  bishop  and  his  counselors  can 
meet  together  as  a  court,  and  they  can  hear  you  and  your  witnesses, 


i 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 


19 


if  you  have  any,  and  then  they  will  hear  the  accused  man  or  woman, 
as  the  case  may  be,  and  hear  his  or  her  witnesses,  then  judge  the  mat- 
ter, and  if  satisfaction  is  not  had,  even  in  that  court,  Which  is  usually 
sufficient,  or  should  be,  because  honest  men,  good  men,  are  chosen 
to  act  in  the  bishopric, — the  Lord  bless  them !  Some  of  them  do  not 
know  quite  as  much  as  they  might  know  if  they  had  had  more  ex- 
perience, but  they  are  honest  men  and  wise  men,  and  they  are  placed 
there  by  their  brethren  who  have  chosen  them,  and  they  have  had 
the  support  by  the  lifting  up  of  hands  of  the  people.  Now,  if  justice 
does  not  seem  to  be  had  by  them,  then  what?  Why,  there  is  a  High 
Council,  composed  of  the  presidency  of  the  stake  and  twelve  high 
priests,  good  mien,  honorable  men,  men  of  experience  men  of  character, 
all  members  of  the  Church,  all  men  holding  the  priesthood  of  the 
Lord,  and  they  have  that  appointment;  they  are  established,  they  are 
high  priests  in  Israel  and  they  are  set  apart  for  that  purpose.  They 
meet  together  and  they  will  see  that  justice  is  done.  If  it  is  necessary 
for  the  case  to  be  brought  before  that  body  an  opportunity  is  had  for 
the  accuser  and  for  the  accused ;  and  that  full  justice  may  be  done, 
the  Lord  has  appointed  that  half  of  that  council  shall  stand  up  for 
the  accuser  and  half  for  the  accused,  not  that  they  should  be  biased 
either  on  one  side  or  the  other,  but  so  that  right  may  prevail. 

I  know  from  experience  in  these  matters  that  the  brethren  who 
are  organized  in  these  councils  are  men  of  honor  and  integrity  and  in- 
fluence in  the  Priesthood,  ajul  they  will  not  judge  a  matter  before  they 
hear  it.  When  the  whole  matter  is  heard,  then  the  president  of  the 
council  and  his  counselors  together  talk  the  matter  over  and  make  up 
the  decision  as  they  consider  in  justice  and  righteousness  before  the 
Lord,  and  present  it  to  the  council.  If  a  majority  of  the  council 
agree  with  them  it  stands. 

AN   APPEAL  MAY  BE  MADE 

An  appeal  can  be  made,  if  it  is  claimed  that  injustice  is  done, 
to  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  who  do  not  sit  as  a  court,  to  hear 
witness,  but  go  over  all  the  evidence  as  presented  and  at- 
tested by  the  clerk,  to  see  if  there  is  any  wrong  and  mistake  made, 
any  injustice  done,  and  if  so,  that  they  can  point  out  the  means,  as 
provided  in  Section  107  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  how  the  mat- 
ter can  be  fully  determined  and  heard  again,  if  they  so  decide,  and 
that  the  matter  can  be  so  looked  into  that  every  point,  every  part  and 
every  item  of  the  decision  can  be  questioned  and  examind,  and  a  con- 
clusion arrived  at  as  to  its  justice  and  righteousness. 

UNSAFE  TO  FOLLOW  A  RUMOR 

But  is  anything  of  that  kind  being  done  in  the  cases  which  have 
been  referred  to  here  this  morning?  Not  at  all.  What  are  you  doing? 
Following  a  rumor,  a  most  unsafe  thing  to  do.  A  certain  rumor  gets 
out  that  certain  things  have  been  done,  and  people  think  they  know 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


they  are  true,  because  of  circumstances  that  arise ;  but  they  do  not  get 
the  other  side,  they  do  not  pay  any  attention  to  it,  and  if  anybody 
seeks  to  put  forward  the  other  side,  it  is  said :  "Oh,  yes,  you  stand 
up  for  him  of  course."  That  is  the  spirit  that  is  manifested.  Now, 
we  want  to  do  away  with  that,  and  therein  is  the  great  lesson  of  this 
morning  to  me  and  to  all  of  us,  I  hope.  The  Lord  has  given  us  the 
way  and  the  means  to  settle  our  difficulties  and  differences  in  the 
Church,  and  so,  as  the  old  apostles  taught  us,  the  Latter-day  apostles 
teach :  "Don't  go  to  law  with  your  brother,  if  it  can  be  avoided  by 
taking  the  matter  before  the  courts  of  the  Church,  or  to  a  court  of 
arbitration  composed  of  persons  chosen  on  either  side,  who  can  arbi- 
trate the  matter  in  the  right  spirit.  There  are  certain  kinds  of  cases, 
like  cases  for  the  settlement  of  titles  to  land,  that  cannot  be  settled 
that  way;  they  are  outside  of  this  jurisdiction.  But  the  whole  of  our 
gospel  and  our  teachings  and  our  influence  is  ecclesiastical.  We  may 
say  it  is  temporal  as  well  as  spiritual.  Certainly :  our  Church  embraces 
the  temporal  and  the  spiritual  together,  as  the  Lord  does,  and  the  au- 
thorities of  this  Church,  in  their  station,  preside  over  the  whole 
Church,  in  all  of  its  ramifications — the  nlost  beautiful  and  splendid 
and  perfect  organization  on  the  earth. 

LET  US  POSSESS  OURSELVES  IN  PATIENCE 

Now,  let  us  take  to  heart  the  lessons  of  this  morning,  brethren 
and  sisters.  Do  not,  during  this  coming  campaign, — I  allude  to  it 
just  simply  in  that  way ;  I  do  not  want  to  talk  politics,  or  to  have  it 
said  I  have  been  talking  politics, — but  in  this  coming  campaign  possess 
yourselves  in  patience,  and  do  not  abuse  or  misrepresent  any  other 
person  or  party.  You  have  no  right  to  do  it.  I  do  not  care  how 
strong  a  partisan  you  may  be  on  your  own  side,  you  have  no  right  to 
misrepresent  the  other.  You  have  no  right  to  lie  about  it  or  about 
them.  You  have  no  right  to  commit  any  kind  of  injustice.  Tell  the 
truth  as  you  understand  it  before  the  Lord,  but  not  the  whole  truth, 
if  that  truth  includes  abusing  the  other  party.  Do  not  misrepresent 
what  other  people  believe,  and  say  a  certain  party  believes  this.  Do 
not  do  that.  Tell  them  what  you  believe,  if  you  want  to  tell  them 
what  you  understand;  make  clear  and  plain  the  truth  as  it  appears  to 
you,  and  do  not  find  fault  with  and  abuse  or  misrepresent  others, 
either  parties  or  persons.  Is  that  politics  ?  Call  it  what  you  like, 
it  is  the  truth,  it  is  the  gospel.  Jesus  Christ,  in  the  same  discourse  that 
we  have  heard  about  this  morning,  told  his  apostles  to  "seek  first  the 
kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness — not  "its,"  as  we  quote  it 
sometimes,  but  seek  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness, 
and  all  these  temporalities  that  he  was  talking  about  shall  be  added 
unto  you.  How  do  we  find  out  about  the  righteousness  of  God  that 
we  are  to  seek  for  in  the  gospel?  The  Apostle  Paul,  writing  to  the 
Romans,  I  believe,  said :  "I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  for  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  unto  every  one  that 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  21 


believeth ;  for  therein  is  the  righteousness  of  God  revealed,  from  faith 
to  faith." 

SOME  DUTIES  OF  THE  SAINTS 

Study  the  gospel,  live  the  gospel.  Seek  to  God,  that  you  may 
understand  his  word,  his  righteousness,  and  pattern  after  it  as  you 
go  on  from  faith  to  faith,  and  put  away  from  your  souls  everything 
of  the  kind  that  has  been  spoken  against  this  morning,  but  be  filled 
with  the  spirit  that  cometh  from  above ;  for  God  is  love,  and  his 
tender  mercies  are  over  all  his  works.  He  loves  us,  and  will  lead 
us  and  will  save  us  if  we  will  keep  his  commandments  and  walk  in 
his  ways,  and  the  time  will  come  when  we  will  meet  together  in  his 
eternal  presence,  and  all  that  belongs  to  us  we  shall  get,  everything. 

Now,  let  us  forgive  one  another,  in  our  hearts,  if  any  offenses 
have  been  made,  and  proceed  from  this  conference  determined  to  carry 
that  spirit  wherever  we  go.  And  men  who  are  in  authority,  presid- 
ing authorities,  bishops,  and  all  the  brethren  who  hold  the  Priest- 
hood, who  labor  among  the  Saints,  carry  that  spirit  with  you  where- 
ever  you  go,  and  do  not  listen  to  evil  things  against  your  brethren,  but 
speak  of  all  the  best  you  can.  God  bless  you  all  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  am  grateful  beyond  expression  that  President  Penrose  has  been 
able  to  speak  to  us.  He  has  been  at  home,  sick  abed,  most  of  the  time 
during  the  last  week. 

I  will  state  that  a  general  music  committee  has  been  selected,  and 
will  undoubtedly  be  sustained  at  our  conference,  with  Elder  Mc 
J.  Ballard  as  the  head  of  that  committee. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Come,  come  ye  Saints." 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Lewis  Anderson,  Presi- 
dent of  the  South  Sanpete  stake  of  Zion. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  called  the  congregation  to 
order  at  2  o'clock.  The  house,  both  in  the  auditorium  and  galleries, 
was  comfortably  filled  with  representatives  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Do  what  is  right." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Edward  C.  Rich,  President  of  the 
Montpelier  Stake  of  Zion. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Guide  us,  O  thou  great  Jehovah." 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  you  will  pardon  me  if  I  look  straight 
ahead  and  do  not  turn  to  the  right  or  to  the  left ;  it  is  the  only  way. 

I  was  profoundly  impressed  by  the  stirring  exhortation  and  testi- 
mony of  President  Grant  this  morning,  which  was  strongly  emphasized 
and  reinforced  by  remarks  of  the  brethren  who  followed.  Surely  it  was 
a  keynote  address.  We  have  received  the  word  and  we  would  do  well 
to  give  heed  to  it. 

NATURE  OF  FORGIVENESS 

Forgiveness  is  one  of  the  most  attractive  and  beautiful  principles 
of  the  gospel  of  Christ.  You  know  Moses  said :  "The  Lord  is  merciful 
and  gracious,  slow  to  anger,  and  plenteous  in  mercy."  He  is  a  God 
of  mercy  and  of  forgiveness  and  is  long-suffering.  We  should  be  like 
him.  Do  you  know  that  what  some  people  call  forgiveness  is  not  al- 
ways forgiveness.  "Yes,"  says  one  who  has  been  wronged,  "I'll  for- 
give but  not  forget."  I  am  reminded  of  the  story  of  the  two  darkies, 
Rastus  and  Sambo.  These  darkies  were  at  enmity  all  their  lives.  There 
was  a  great  feud  between  them  until  Sambo  came  to  his  death-bed,  and 
a  friend  said  to  him :  "Sambo,  in  this  solemn  moment,  surely  you 
will  forgive  Rastus."  Sambo  said,  "Yes,"  and  turning  to  Rastus  re- 
marked, "Rastus,  if  I  dies  you  are  forgiven,  but  if  I  lives,  look  out  for 
me."  Another  illustration.  One  friend  said  to  another:  "Do  you 
love  your  enemies  ?"  He  answered :  "No  sir,  but  I  sympathize  with 
therm."  "Well,  I  did  not  know  they  needed  sympathy."  "They  don't," 
he  said,  "but  they  will  when  I  get  through  with  them."  Remember, 
the  admonition  is,  seek  diligently  faith,  hope  and  charity,  but  the  great- 
est of  these  is  charity. 

THREE  EVILS  EXTANT  IN  THE  WORLD 

I  would  like  to  speak  for  a  few  moments  today  upon  the  subject 
of  three  evils  that  are  extant  in  the  world  at  large  and  which  have 
also  crept  into  our  community,  in  some  places  in  a  greater  degree,  in 
other  places  in  a  lesser  degree ;  but  they  are  here  neverthelss,  and  oh, 
what  a  triumvirate  of  evils !  I  allude  to  profanity,  the  tobacco  evil,  and 
the  bondage  of  debt. 

SACREDNESS  OF  THE  NAME  OF  GOD 

You  will  remember  that  the  Lord  spoke  to  Moses  upon  one  occa- 
sion and  said  to  him  that  he  was  about  to  come  down  and  manifest 
himself  to  his  people..  Moses  was  instructed  to  sanctify  the  people 
that  they  might  meet  the  Lord,  to  take  two  days  for  this  important 
duty  and  on  the  third  day  the  Lord  would  come  down.  This  is  what 
the  record  says  of  that  manifestation  of  majesty  and  power: 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


23 


And  ft  came  to  pass  on  the  third  day  in  the  morning,  that  there  wers 
thunders  and  lightnings,  and  a  thick  cloud  upon  the  mount,  and  the  voice 
of  the  trumpet  exceeding  loud;  so  that  all  the  people  that  was  in  the 
camp  trembled. 

And  Moses  brought  forth  the  people  out  of  the  camp  to  meet  with 
God;  and  they  stood  at  the  nether  part  of  the  mount. 

And  Mount  Sinai  was  altogether  on  a  smoke,  because  the  Lord  de- 
scended upon  it  in  fire:  and  the  smoke  thereof  ascended  as  the  smoke  of  a 
furnace,  and  the  whole  mount  quaked  greatly. 

And  when  the  voice  of  the  trumpet  sounded  long,  and  waxed  louder  and 
louder,  Moses  spake,  and  God  answered  him  by  a  voice. 

And  so  the  Lord  descended  upon  Mount  Sinai  and  revealed  him- 
self in  power  to  the  children  of  Israel  and  spoke  to  them,  but  I  would 
like  to  say  to  you,  that  this  great  demonstration  of  the  power  of 
God,  which  must  have  been  exceedingly  impressive,  was  nothing,  in  my 
judgment,  compared  with  the  words  which  the  Lord  spoke  upon  that 
occasion.  Remember,  the  thunders  passed  away,  the  lightnings  ceased 
to  flash,  the  earth  trembled  no  more,  but  the  words  that  were  spoken 
have  come  thundering  down  through  the  ages  and  are  known  to  us 
as  the  Decalogue,  and  these  words,  mark  you,  are  binding  today  upon 
the  children  of  Israel,  and  upon  the  whole  world. 

Now,  the  first  of  these  commandments  was  exceedingly  impress- 
ive.   The  Lord  said :    "Thou  shalt  have  no  other  gods  before  me. 

"Thou  shalt  not  bow  thyself  to  them,  nor  serve  them :  for  1  the 
Lord  thy  God  am  a  jealous  god." 

In  the  commandments  that  followed,  the  Lord  made  reference  to 
the  sacredness  of  the  Sabbath  day.  He  spoke  in  regard  to  the  attitude 
of  parents  to  children,  that  children  should  honor  their  parents.  He 
-poke  against  the  evil  of  killing,  of  stealing,  of  adultery  and  of  bear- 
ing false  witness.    He  also  said: 

Thou  shalt  not  take  the  name  of  the  Lord  thy  God  in  vain;  for  the 
Lord  will  not  hold  him  guiltless  that  taketh  his  name  in  vain. 

I  remind  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  there  are  two  great  Priest- 
hoods in  the  Church  of  Christ.  One  is  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  the 
other  is  the  Holy  Priesthood  after  the  order  of  the  Son  of  God,  but 
out  of  respect  and  reverence  to  the  name  of  the  Supreme  Being,  to 
avoid  the  too  frequent  repetition  of  his  name,  they,  the  Church,  in 
ancient  days,  called  this  Priesthood  after  Melchizedek.  Melchizedek 
was  a  great  high  priest.  He  is  spoken  of  as  having  been  the  king  of 
Salem  and  the  prince  of  peace.  He  must  have  been  a  great  and  good 
man,  and  surely  he  was  highly  honored  in  having  the  Priesthood 
named  after  him.  But  it  was  primarily  for  the  purpose,  mark  you, 
of  avoiding  the  too  frequent  use  of  the  name  of  Deity.  Jesus,  during 
his  ministry,  emphasized  this  matter  of  profanity.  It  had  his  atten- 
tion, he  took  notice  of  it,  and  thus  he  spake  to  his  disciples  and  to 
his  people : 

And  again  ye  -.rave  heard  that  it  hath  been  said  by  them  of  old  time, 
thou  shalt  not  forswear  thyself  but  shalt  perform  unto  the  Lord  thine 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


oaths:  but  I  say  unto  you,  swear  not  at  all;  neither  by  heaven,"  for  it  is 
God's  throne;  nor  by  the  earth,  for  it  is  his  footstool;  neither  by  Jeru- 
salem, for  it  is  the  city  of  the  great  king.  Neither  shalt  thou  swear  by 
thy  head  because  thou  canst  not  make  one  hair  white  or  black.  But  let 
your  communictaions  be  yea,  yea,  and  nay,  nay,  for  whatsoever  is  more  than 
these  cometh  of  evil. 

Now  brethren  and  sisters,  we  learn  from  these  scriptures  that 
the  name  of  God  is  very  sacred,  and  that  it  ought  not  to  be  used 
lightly.  We  have  been  told  many  times  that  even  in  our  sermons  it 
should  not  often  be  spoken,  neither  ought  it  to  be  used  very  much 
in  our  prayers.  If  that  be  the  case,  what  shall  we  say  of  the  man, 
and  particularly  if  he  be  a  man  holding  the  Priesthood,  if  he  takes 
the  name  of  the  Lord  in  vain  ?  The  Lord  has  said  he  shall  not  be  held 
guiltless,  he  must  answer  for  it.  You  do  not  hear  profanity  every- 
where, you  do  not  hear  it  in  all  places,  but  now  and  then,  in  various 
sections  of  the  Church,  you  will  hear  the  name  of  the  Lord  profaned. 
It  is  a  great  sin.  It  is  a  serious  evil  and  the  man,  (and  I  might 
say  also  the  woman)  who  is  guilty  of  this  fault  hath  need  of  re- 
pentance. 

TOBACCO  IS  NOT  GOOD  FOR  MAN 

I  would  like  to  say  a  word  or  two  upon  the  subject  of  the  tobacco 
evil.  This  matter  is  before  us.  You  know  the  slogan  of  the  Young  Men's 
organization,  in  fact,  of  all  the  auxiliary  organizations  of  the  Church, 
is  that  we  stand  for  the  non-use  of  tobacco,  because  we  regard  it  as 
detrimental  to  the  health  and  welfare  of  the  people  of  God,  and  also  to 
the  people  of  the  world  if  they  would  but  recognize  the  fact.  It  is  an 
evil  wherever  you  find  it.  Especially  so  among  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
because,  we  have  the  word  of  the  Lord  upon  the  subject. 

How  very  kind  and  merciful  the  Lord  is  that  at  almost  the  be- 
ginning of  the  Church,  he  should  give  us  to  know  as  a  people,  what 
is  good  for  us  and  good  for  our  bodies,  good  to  eat  and  good  to  drink. 
He  mentions  various  articles.  You  are  familiar  with  them.  We  verily 
know,  that  the  things  which  the  Lord  has  said  are  goodTor  us  are  good. 
We  have  proved  it  in  times  past.  Every  man  knows  it,  every  woman 
knows  it,  and  the  children  are  going  to  know  it  as  they  get  knowledge. 
Bread  is  the  staff  of  life.  Water  is  a  pure  beverage  from  heaven,  you 
might  say.  It  comes  from  the  earth  but  it  might  just  as  well  come 
down  from  heaven.  It  is  so  harmless  and  so  fine  for  the  human  sys- 
tem. We  should  eat  the  things  that  are  good  for  us  in  reason,  spar- 
ingly, especially  in  the  use  of  meat.  We  must  not  go  to  excess,  in 
the  use  of  that  article  and  if  we  eat  it  largely,  to  any  extent,  it  should 
be  in  times  of  cold  weather.  Now  the  Lord  has  declared  in  positive 
language  that  no  one  needs  to  err,  no  one  needs  to  go  astray  in  this 
matter.  He  has  said  it  in  plainness  and  simplicity.  He  does  not  say 
bread  and  water  are  not  good  for  the  body,  but  he  does  say  tobacco  is 
not  good  for  the  body.  It  is  not  good  even  for  sick  cattle  except 
to  be  used  outwardly  for  bruises  and  so  on,  and  I  feel  sure  that  if 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


25 


tobacco,  or  tobacco  juice  was  administered  regularly,  to  an  animal, 
say,  a  cow  or  a  horse,  if  it  had  been  healthy  before  it  would  be 
terribly  sick  thereafter.  We  are  admonished  to  refrain  from  the  use 
of  this  article  and  other  things  that  are  hurtful  to  the  body.  We  should 
put  them  aside  and  pass  them  by.  In  this  connection,  it  would  be 
well  to  rememlber  that  a  great  and  glorious  blessing  goes  with  the  ob- 
servance of  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  The  Lord  has  told  us  clearly  and 
strongly  what  would  follow.  "All  saints,"  he  says,  "who  remember  to 
keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking  in  obedience  to  the  commandments, 
shall  receive  health  in  their  navel  and  marrow  to  their  bones,  and 
shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden  treas- 
ures. They  shall  run  and  not  be  weary;  they  shall  walk  and  not 
faint."  Yea,  the  Lord  giveth  a  promise  that  the  destroying  angels 
shall  pass  them  by  as  the  children  of  Israel  and  not  slay  them. 

But  aside  from  this  promise,  it  ought  to  be  the  good  pleasure  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  to  honor  this  commandment  because  it  is  from 
the  Lord.  He  has  spoken  and  we  ought  to  listen  and  give  heed  to  his 
word.  Tobacco  is  particularly  hurtful  to  young  people,  to  the  boys, 
many  of  whom  fall  into  the  habit  of  smoking  cigarettes.  They  know 
not  what  they  are  doing.  It  may  result  in  irreparable  damage  to  them 
all  through  their  lives.  Listen  to  what  Thomas  A.  Edison,  the  great 
inventor,  says  upon  this  subject.  He  says:  "The  injurious  agent  in 
cigarettes  comes  principally  from  the  burning  paper  wrapper.  The 
substance  thereby  formed  is  called  'Acrobin.'  It  has  a  violent  action 
on  the  nerve  centers,  producing  degeneration  of  the  cells  of  the  brain 
which  is  quite  rapid  among  boys.  Unlike  most  narcotics,  this  de- 
generation is  permanent  and  uncontrolable.  I  employ  no  person  who 
smokes  cigarettes." 

If  any  of  your  boys  are  using  cigarettes,  you  ought  to  take  instant 
notice  of  it,  and  exert  every  power  and  every  influence  within  your 
means  to  get  them  to  overcome  the  habit. 

Another  word  upon  the  subject.  In  the  Unpopular  Review,  of 
January,  1914,  Henry  W.  Farnham,  Professor  of  Economics  in  Yale 
University,  had  an  intensely  and  illuminating  article  on  our  tobacco 
bill,  and  which  we  have  kindly  been  permitted  to  quote.  Says  Professor 
Farnham : 

The  importance  of  tobacco  in  our  National  budget  is  shown  by  the 
latest  census  figure,  according  to  which  it  ranks  eleventh  among  the  in- 
dustries of  the  country  with  respect  to  the  value  of  the  product.  Our  man- 
ufactured tobacco  was  worth  at  the  factory  in  1909,  four  hundred  and  sixty 
million,  six  hundred  ninety-five  thousand  dollars.  It  thus  outranked  bread 
and  other  bakery  products,  women's  clothing,  copper,  malt  liquors,  automo- 
biles, petroleum  and  distilled  liquors.  It  was  but  about  one-third  less  im- 
portant than  the  manufactures  of  cotton.  A  careful  statistician,  Pro- 
fessor William  B.  Bailey  of  Yale,  published  nearly  two  years  ago  some 
figures  showing  that  the  people  of  the  United  States  spent  at  that  time 
in  a  single  year  about  one  billion,  one  hundred  million  dollars  on  to- 
bacco. As  the  receipts  from  the  Internal  Revenue  Tax  on  tobacco  have 
increased  by  abput  fourteen  per  cent  in  the  last  two  years,  it  seems  fai, 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  assume  that  the  general  consumption  has  increased  by  this  amount.  It 
seems,  therefore,  conservative  to  state  that  at  the  present  time  the  people 
are  spending  at  least  one  billion  two  hundred  million  dollars  for  the  pleas- 
ure of  smoking  and  chewing.  The  significance  of  these  figures  can  best 
be  appreciated  if  we  compare  them  with  other  items  in  our  national  budget. 
To  put  the  matter  concretely  "tobacco  takers"  spend  in  a  single  year  twice 
the  amount  spent  by  the  entire  country  on  railroad  travel,  and  about  three 
times  the  amount  which  it  spends  on  its  common  school  system.  They 
pay  out  annually  about  three  times  the  entire  cost  of  the  Panama  Canal, 
they  destroy  directly  about  three  times  as  much  property  as  was  destroyed 
in  the  San  Francisco  earthquake.  Their  smokes  and  chews  cost  them 
just  about  twice  what  it  costs  to  maintain  the  government  of  the  United 
States,  including  the  interest  on  the  public  debt.  Our  smokers  could,  in 
a  year  and  a  half,  pay  off  the  entire  bonded  debts  of  our  states,  cities  and 
counties,  as  it  was  in  1902,  and  in  an  additional  nine  months  the  entire 
interest-bearing  debt  of  the  United  States,  if  they  were  willing  to  exer- 
cise the  self-denial  which  was  exercised  a  few  years  ago  by  the  Persian 
people. 

■  These  figures  are  impressive.  I  think  I  am  safe  in  saying  that 
vast  sums  are  expended  in  our  own  state  every  year  for  tobacco  and 
that  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  of  cigarettes  are  smoked  by  the 
young  people  in  the  State  of  Utah.  It  ought  not  to  be.  We  must  get 
together,  we  must  be  absolutely  united,  we  must  set  our  faces  as  flint 
against  this  evil,  because  it  is  breaking  down  the  health  and  Weakening 
the  constitution  of  our  young  people.   It  will  never  do. 

THE    BONDAGE  OF  DEBT 

i 

Just  a  closing  word  upon  the  subject  of  indebtedness.  Any  man 
who  has  been  in  debt,  any  man  or  woman  who  is  in  debt  now,  surely 
knows  the  evil  of  indebtedness.  It  is  bondage.  It  is  worse  than  im- 
prisonment. It  is  time  that  our  people,  at  least,  should  give  this  im- 
portant matter  consideration.  We  do  not  know  what  is  ahead.  There 
may  be  evil  times,  we  do  not  know.  Mioney  seems  to  be  plentiful 
just  now.  How  it  comes  and  where  it  comes  from  I  don't  know,  but  I 
see  a  great  deal  of  it  wrapped  up  in  the  thousands  and  tens  of  thou- 
sands of  automobiles  that  are  plying  throughout  the  country,  in  every 
city  and  in  every  country  place.  Surely,  it  is  all  right  for  a  man  to 
have  an  automobile  for  the  use  of  himself  and  his  family,  and  espe- 
cially to  take  his  family  out  occasionally  and  particularly  if  his  family 
lives  upon  a  farm.  I  think  it  is  a  grand  thought  that  a  farmer  may 
take  his  hard-working  wife  and  his  family  out  for  a  little  fresh  air 
and  drive  them  over  the  country,  in  the  country  places,  and  in  the 
city  too.  It  is  all  right  if  he  can  afford  it.  If  he  has  the  money  to 
invest  in  this  luxury  it  is  all  right.  But  I  would  not  think  it  is  all  right 
to  put  a  large  sum  of  money  into  an  automobile,  if  he  does  not  have 
it,  and  if  he  must  needs  mortgage  the  automobile  or  possibly  mortgage 
his  home  in  order  to  get  it.    To  me  that  looks  like  a  great  evil,  but 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


27 


the  thought  that  is  in  my  mind  is  that  we  ought  to  retrench  in  our 
expenditures.  I  am  safe  in  saying  that  this  is  an  extravagant  age  in 
which  we  are  living  and  much  money  is  spent  recklessly  and  wildly. 

Keep  this  in  mind.   Let  us  fight  these  three  gigantic  evils. 

The  Lord  bless  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Lola  Leonard  sang  a  sacred  solo :   "Sweet  story  of  old." 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

I  am  very  grateful  for  the  privilege  I  had  of  attending  the  con- 
ference session  this  morning,  and  I  desire  to  express  my  approval  of 
all  that  was  said.  Every  admonition  I  approved  of,  and'  it  met  a  re- 
sponsive answer  in  my  heart.  I  enjoyed  greatly  that  wonderful  hymn 
that  was  sung  so  beautifully  by  Brother  J.  R.  Boshard,  and  a  member 
of  the  Provo  choir,  entitled  "I  know  that  my  Redeemer  Lives."  I  think 
that  is  my  favorite  song,  and  every  time  I  hear  it  sung  it  builds  me 
up  in  my  faith  and  gives  me  confidence  that  there  is  a  living  God  and 
that  he  has  a  watch-care,  not  only  over  his  people,  but  over  the  whole 
world. 


NEED  OF  REFORMATION  IN  THE  HOME  LIFE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

i  am  going  to  read  an  extract  of  a  letter  from  a  governor  of  one 
of  the  great  states  of  our  country.  I  believe  that  never  in  the  history 
of  the  world  has  it  been  so  necessary  that  there  be  a  reformation  in 
the  home  life  of  the  American  people,  and  to  a  certain  extent,  in  our 
own  homes  in  Zion,  as  exists  today.  This  excerpt  is  as  follows,  in 
answer  to  a  letter  written  the  governor  upon  a  question  that  I  thought 
was  very  vital  to  the  American  people: 

The  destiny,  the  greatness  of  America  lies  around  the  hearthstone. 
If  thrift  and  industry  are  taught  there  and  the  example  of  self-sacrifice 
oft  appears;  if  honor  abide  there,  and  high  ideals;  if  there  the  building  of 
fortune  be  subordinate  to  the  building  of  character  America  will  live  in  se- 
curity, rejoicing  in  an  abundant  prosperity  and  good  government  at  home, 
and  in  peace,  respect  and  confidence  abroad.  If  these  virtues  be  absent 
there  is  no  power  that  can  supply  these  blessings.  Look  well,  then,  to 
the  hearthstone.    Therein  all  hope  for  America  lies." 

I  am  delighted  to  know  that  from  the  very  beginning  of  the 
Church,  immediately  after  its  organization,  the  "Mormon"  people 
became  home-builders  and  home-owners,  and  in  the  early  days  of  this 
Church,  at  least  as  far  back  as  I  can  remember,  the  admonitions  to 
the  people  were  to  secure  a  home  and  keep  it  unencumbered.  That 
admonition  is  good  today. 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


PEOPLE  LIVING  BEYOND  THEIR  MEANS 

I  have  been  surprised  to  see  in  a  few  of  the  business  concerns 
the  amount  of  indebtedness  owing  by  our  people  and  in  many  cases 
it  seems  to  me  in  amounts  that  it  will  be  impossible  for  them  to  repay 
without  some  unforeseen  relief.  I  want  to  echo  the  same  idea  ex- 
pressed by  Brother  Clawson  and  ask  our  people,  as  well  as  other  people 
who  are  deeply  in  debt,  to  get  out  as  soon  as  possible.  The  obligations, 
of  our  government  were  never  so  great,  brought  on  by  the  wicked 
world  war,  but  it  is  not  only  the  government,  it  is  the  people  generally 
throughout  all  parts  of  the  country.  The  people  generally  have  been 
living  beyond  their  income.  And  as  long  as  money  was  so  easily  ob- 
tained, many  who  never  were  in  debt  before,  find  themselves  in 
that  condition  today  no  one  can  tell,  but  we  know  that  there  are 
thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  of  them,  and  we  do  know  that  from 
now  on  there  must  be  a  retrenchment  in  the  mode  of  living  by  the 
people  of  the  United  States.  Extravagances  upon  all  hands,  and 
sometimes  as  I  look  around  in  the  large  cities  it  seems  to  me  that  that 
old  principle  that  made  America  so  strong  and  powerful,  that  home- 
owning  tendency,  that  hearthstone  spoken  of  by  the  governor,  is  fast 
disappearing  in  many  parts  of  our  country.  Instead  of  homes  we 
see  great  buildings  erected  as  apartment  houses.  From  my  front 
door  in  Washington  I  look  upon  the  hill  but  a  few  rods  away,  and 
there  is  built  what  is  said  to  be  the  largest  apartment  house  in  all 
the  world.  People  are  applying  for  space  faster  than  it  is  possible  to 
furnish. 

PRAYER  IN  THE  HOME 

I  hope  and  trust  that  the  homes  of  the  "Mormon"  people  will  be 
homes  in  which  prayer  is  always  practiced,  for  there  is  power  in  prayer 
and  as  long  as  the  father  and  the  mother  and  the  children  of  a  home 
believe  in  prayer,  and  believe  that  God  will  answer  the  prayers,  and 
offer  those  prayers  with  an  honest  and  pure  heart,  there  is  not  very 
much  outside  danger  that  will  come  to  such  homes.  The  five  years  that 
I  was  a  counselor  in  the  Presidency  of  the  Utah  stake  there  never  was 
a  case  of  dispute  or  trouble  between  the  husband  and  wife  that  came 
under  my  observation,  but  what,  upon  inquiry,  we  learned  that  in  that 
home  prayer  had  ceased  to  be  the  rule.  And  I  am  one  who  believes 
that  where  the  inmates  of  a  home  pray  for  strength,  pray  with  faith, 
pray  with  their  children  and  for  their  children,  that  there  is  not  going 
to  be  an  estrangement  between  the  father  and  the  mother,  or  the  chil- 
dren and  the  parents.  I  hope  and  trust  that  where  our  people,  through 
circumstances  perhaps  over  which  they  have  no  control,  are  forced  into 
apartment  houses,  that  they  will  try  to  make  the  rooms  they  occupy 
in  such  a  building  a  place  where  prayer  shall  be  exercised. 

In  our  meeting  the  other  day  some  of  the  presidents  of  the  mis- 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


29 


sions  reported  some  remarkable  healings  of  the  sick.  As  I  listened  to 
them  I  thought  to  myself,  are  there  any  more  remarkable  manifesta- 
tions of  the  power  of  God  recorded  in  Holy  Writ  than  those  that  were 
reported  to  us  at  that  meeting,  the  blind  made  to  see, — the  paralyzed 
made  to  walk !  And  I  want  to  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  I  do  know  that  there  is  that  power  in  the  Priesthood  of  the  living 
God,  that  through  faith  and  prayer  and  laying  on  of  hands,  the  house- 
hold of  faith  can  be  healed.  I  think  we  are  making  headway  in  the 
world.  I  think  that  the  walls  of  prejudice  against  this  people  are 
crumbling  day  by  day.  I  think  that  the  character  of  the  people  is  bet- 
ter understood  as  time  passes  on,  and  I  haven't  a  doubt  in  my  mind 
but  what  all  the  purposes  of  the  Father  will  be  fulfilled  in  his  own 
due  time.  And  it  is  with  us,  as  members  of  his  Church,  to  see  that  our 
homes  are  put  in  order  and  that  we  ourselves  are  willing  to  keep  the 
commandments  of  God  as  was  requested  of  us  this  morning  by  Presi- 
dent Grant.  . 


CONVERSIONS  AT  HOME  AND  ABROAD 

We  have  many  missionaries  in  the  field,  some  fifteen  hundred, 
I  think,  and  with  all  the  expense  attached  to  maintaining  them  in  the 
missionary  field,  and  with  all  of  the  baptisms  that  are  performed  by 
the  missionaries,  I  want  to  say  to  the  brethren  and  sisters  here  today 
that  the  number  of  such  conversions  in  the  world  are  not  more  than 
twenty-five  per  cent  of  the  number  of  the  children  that  are  born  of 
"Mormon"  parentage.  I  may  add  that  I  was  pleased  with  some  of 
the  reports  that  came  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  in  relation  to  the 
home  missionary  work  in  some  of  the  stakes  of  Zion.  I  understand 
that  the  home  missionaries  in  one  stake  of  Zion  have  converted  within 
the  last  year,  or  less,  some  thirty-eight  persons,  and  I  thought  to  my- 
self, a  soul  saved  in  Zion,  a  baptism  made  at  home,  is  just  as  precious 
in  the  sight  of  the  Father  as  one  that  is  made  abroad.  And  if  with 
our  lives  and  through  our  energies  we  can  convert  the  people  who 
live  among  us,  the  people  who  see  our  every-day  lives,  the  people  who 
know  what  this  work  has  accomplished  in  this  part  of  God's  vineyard, 
how  blessed  it  would  be,  and  I  am  quite  sure  it  would  be  approved 
of  the  Father. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  ask  God's  choicest  blessings  upon 
you,  and  I  want  to  say  with  all  the  fervor  of  my  soul  that  I  know  that 
the  Father  is  at  the  head  of  this  work,  he  is  directing  it,  and  I  know 
that  his  servants  are  in  full  accord  with  the  wish  of  the  Presidency 
of  the  Church.  May  his  blessings  ever  attend  all  of  the  people,  and 
may  they  remember  him  in  their  tithes  and  in  their  offerings,  for  it  is 
from  him  that  all  good  comes,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 

IN  TUNE  WITH  THE  KEYNOTE. 

My  spirit  is  in  perfect  tune  with  the  keynote  struck  for  this  con- 
ference. I  believe  in  charity  and  forgiveness.  I  fully  agree  with  the 
one  who  said:  "He  that  judgeth  a  matter  before  he  heareth  it  is  not 
wise."  And  we  do  not  hear  a  matter  by  hearing  one  side  of  it.  It 
is  wrong  to  pass  judgment  before  proof  of  guilt.  The  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  was  murdered  while  awaiting  trial  on  a  trumped  up  charge  of 
which  he  had  not  been  proved  guilty,  nor  could  he  have  been.  He 
had  surrendered  for  trial,  but  his  plotting  murderers  declared :  "The 
law  cannot  reach  him,  but  powder  and  ball  shall."  And  they  forth- 
with carried  out  their  wicked  threat.  This,  however,  is  not  the  theme 
that  was  weighing  upon  my  mind. 

TWO  PHASES  OF  GOD'S  WORK. 

I  have  been  thinking  of  two  great  phases  of  the  Lord's  Latter-day 
work,  one  of  them  appealing  more  strongly,  perhaps,  to  the  traveling- 
ministry  who  are  preaching  the  gospel  in  the  world ;  the  other  to 
those  who  are  laboring  at  home  in  the  Stakes  of  Zion  and  particularly 
in  the  temples  of  God. 

TEMPLES  IN  THIS  DISPENSATION 

Temples  and  temple  work  is  a  subject  that  lies  very  near  and  is 
very  dear  to  the  heart  of  every  faithful,  thoughtful  Latter-day  Saint. 
This  Church  since  its  organization,  has  built  eight  temples — the  first 
one  at  Kirtland,  Ohio,  in  the  year  1836 ;  the  next  one  at  Nauvoo, 
Illinois,  in  the  early  forties;  and  it  projected  others  at  Independence, 
Missouri,  and  at  Far  West  and  Adam-ondi-Ahman  in  that  state.  Then 
came  the  departure  of  the  Saints  into  the  wilderness.  The  first  tem- 
ple in  Utah,  the  one  at  St.  George,  was  dedicated  in  1877,  the  year 
that  President  Brigham  Young  died.  Next  in  order  was  the  Logan 
Temple,  completed  in  1884;  then  the  Manti  Temple,  in  1888.  The 
great  Salt  Lake  Temple,  which  occupied  forty  years  in  building  and 
cost  over  three  million  dollars,  was  dedicated  in  April,  1893.  Since 
that  time,  we  have  built  a  temple  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  and  an- 
other at  Cardston,  in  the  province  of  Alberta,  Canada.  And  now  the 
Church  contemplates  a  temple  at  Mesa,  Arizona,  which  will  make  the 
ninth,  thus  far,  in  this  dispensation. 

THE  KIRTLAND  TEMPLE 

Among  all  these  sacred  structures  there  is  one  that  stands  out 
unique,  with  a  character  and  history  all  its  own.    It  is  not  the  largest 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


31 


of  our  temples,  nor  the  costliest;  but  things  occurred  within  its  walls 
of  which  there  is  no  counterpart  in  the  history  of  any  other  house  of 
God.  P  refer  to  the  temple  at  Kirtland,  which  it  was  my  privilege  to 
visit,  first,  in  1877,  and  subsequently  in  1914.  One  peculiarity  of  that 
temple — which  yet  stands — is  the  absence  of  a  baptismal  font,  the 
principle  of  baptism  for  the  dead  not  having  been  revealed  to  the 
Church  that  early.  But  there  is  something  connected  with  the  Kirt- 
land Temple  of  far  greater  consequence  than  a  baptismal  font,  and 
without  which  there  would  have  been  no  baptismal  font  in  any  of  the 
temples  since  erected ;  and  without  which,  moreover,  the  whole  work 
of  God  in  this  dispensation  would  have  come  to  a  standstill. 

JOSEPH  AND  OLIVER 

You  will  understand  me  more  clearly  after  I  have  read  to  you  a 
selection  from  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants — a  portion  of  Sec- 
tion 110,  the  caption  of  which  runs  as  follows :  "Visions  manifested  to 
Joseph  the  Seer  and  Oliver  Cowdery,  in  the  Kirtland  Temple,  April 
3rd,  1836."  This  was  just  one  week  after  that  house  had  been  dedi- 
cated. Joseph  and  Oliver  were  the  first  and  second  Elders  of  the 
Church.  They  had  been  associated  together  in  the  translating  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  They  were  together  when  John  the  Baptist  re- 
stored the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  and  when  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood was  brought  back  to  earth  by  Peter,  James  and  John.  They 
were  together  in  organizing  the  Church ;  and  now,  six  years  after  that 
event,  they  are  together  in  the  first  temple  erected  by  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  receiving  from  God  one  of  the  most  wonderful  manifestations 
ever  vouchsafed  to  mortals.  It  came  in  order  that  what  had  gone 
before  in  the  opening  of  this  gospel  dispensation,  might  not  be  in 
vain.  The  glorious  appearing  of  the  Father  and  the  Son;  the  visita- 
tions of  the  Angel  Moroni;  the  discovery  of  the  Nephite 
plates;  the  restoration  of  the  Priesthood,  and  the  organization  of  the 
Church — all  these  events  were  preliminary  to  what  was  about  to  come. 
Here  is  the  record  of  visions  seen  by  Joseph  and  Oliver  on  that  oc- 
casion : 

JEHOVAH  APPEARS 

The  vail  was  taken  from  our  minds,  and  the  eyes  of  our  understanding 
were  opened. 

We  saw  the  Lord  standing  upon  the  breast-work  of  the  pulpit,  before 
us,  and  under  his  feet  was  a  paved  work  of  pure  gold, in  color  like  amber. 

His  eyes  were  as  a  flame  of  fire,  the  hair  of  his-  head  was  white  like 
the  pure  snow,  his  countenance  shone  above  the  brightness  of  the  sun, 
and  his  voice  was  as  the  sound  of  the  rushing  of  great  waters,  even  the 
voice  of  Jehovah,  saying — 

I  am  the  first  and  the  last,  I  am  he  who  liveth,  I  am  he  who  was 
slain,  I  am  your  advocate  with  the  Father. 

A  wonderful  revelation  in  itself,  this  proclamation  from  the 
mouth  of  Jehovah,  the  God  of  Israel,  that  he  is  no  other  than  Jesus 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Christ,  the  Savior  of  mankind.  He  accepts  the  house — the  Temple 
built  to  his  name — and  the  record  thus  continues : 

MOSES  AND  ELIJAH 

After  this  vision  closed,  the  heavens  were  again  opened  unto  us,  and 
Moses  appeared  before  us,  and  committed  unto  us  the  keys  of  the  gather- 
ing of  Israel  from  the  four  parts  of  the  earth,  and  the  leading  of  the  ten 
tribes  from  the  land  of  the  north.    .    .  . 

After  this  vision  had  closed,  another  great  and  glorious  vision  burst 
upon  us,  for  Elijah  the  Prophet,  who  was  taken  to  heaven  without  tasting 
death,  stood  before  us  and  said — 

Behold,  the  time  has  fully  come,  which  was  spoken  of  by  the  mouth 
of  Malachi,  testifying  that  he  (Elijah)  should  be  sent  before  the  great 
and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  come, 

To  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children,  and  the  children 
to  the  fathers,  lest  the  whole  earth  be  smitten  with  a  curse. 

Therefore  the  keys  of  this  dispensation  are  committed  into  your 
hands,  and  by  this  ye  may  know  that  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the 
Lord  is  near,  even  at  the  doors. 

THE  GOSPEL  TO  THE  NATIONS 

Up  to  this  time  the  activities  of  the  Elders  who  were  preach- 
ing the  gospel  had  been  confined  to  various  states  of  the  Union  and 
to  the  Dominion  of  Canada;  but  now  the  Ensign,  previously  lifted, 
was  farther  advanced.  The  keys  of  the  gathering  having  been  re- 
stored, preparations  were  made  for  sending  the  gospel  from  the  Land 
of  Zion  into  foreign  lands,  calling  in  from  their  long  dispersion  the 
children  of  Israel,  scattered  for  generations  through  the  various  na- 
tions of  the  world.  But  if  the  keys  committed  by  Moses,  who  held 
them  at  the  time  of  Israel's  exodus  from  Egypt,  had  not  been  con- 
ferred upon  the  Prophet  presiding  over  this  dispensation,  the  work 
of  God  would  have  halted  then  and  there.  There  would  have  been 
no  gathering  of  Israel,  if  the  keys  for  the  gathering  had  not  been  re- 
stored. 

FIRST  FOREIGN  MISSION 

In  the  summer  of  1837,  a  little  over  a  year  after  these  keys  were 
given  to  Joseph  and  Oliver,  the  Prophet,  harassed  and'  tortured  by 
conditions  then  prevailing  at  Kirtland,  where  everything  seemed  tot- 
tering to  its  fall — half  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  and  many  of  the 
Seventies  and  Elders  arraying  themselves  against  the  Lord's  anointed 
— voiced  the  word  of  God  to  the  effect  that  "something  new  must  be 
done  to  save  the  Church."  Yes,  Satan  saw  what  wlas  coming;  he 
knew  the  significance  of  the  restoration  of  those  sacred  keys,  and  he 
did  his  utmost  to  destroy  the  Lord's  work  in  its  infancy.  It  was  a 
period  of  apostasy;  the  things  of  the  world  were  uppermost  in  the 
minds  of  the  people,  and  many  were  neglecting  their  spiritual  duties, 
and  seeking  to  become  rich  at  the  sacrifice  of  principle.  Such  was  the 
situation  when,  according  to  Heber  C.  Kimball,  one  of  the  Apostles, 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


33 


the  Prophet,  sitting  beside  him  in  the  Kirtland  Temple,  Sunday,  June 
4,  1837,  said:  "Brother  Heber,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  whis- 
pered to  me,  'Let  my  servant  Heber  go  to  England  and  proclaim  my 
gospel  and  open  the  door  of  salvation  to  that  nation.'  "  Heber  C. 
Kimball  and  Orson  Hyde,  with  Willard  Richards,  Joseph  Fielding, 
Isaac  Russell,  John  Goodson  and  John  Snyder,  crossed  the  Atlantic, 
landed  at  Liverpool  penniless,  proceeded  to  Preston  in  Lancashire, 
and  there  preached  the  first  "Mormon"  sermons  ever  heard  on  Euro- 
pean soil.  Their  success  was  marvelous.  Whole  villages  were  swept 
into  the  Church  by  these  unlettered  but  divinely  empowered  apostles 
of  the  new  dispensation.  In  eight  months"  they  baptized  two  thou- 
sand souls,  and  Heber  wrote  back  to  Kirtland :  "Glory  to  God,  Joseph, 
the  Lord  is  with  us  among  the  nations !" 

EARLIEST  IMMIGRANTS 

Subsequently  another  apostolic  mission,  headed  by  Brigham 
Young  and  including  a  majority  of  the  Twelve,  crossed  the  ocean 
and  carried  the  gospel  to  all  parts  of  the  British  Isles.  Five  thousand 
converts  were  added  to  the  Church ;  a  new  edition  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon  was  published ;  many  thousands  of  tracts  were  distributed ; 
the  Millennial  Star  was  founded;  a  permanent  emigration  agency 
established;  and  in  the  month  of  June,  1840,  the  first  company  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  from  a  foreign  land  sailed  from  Liverpool  to  New 
York,  bound  for  Nauvoo,  Illinois,  which  had  become  the  place  of 
gathering.  From  that  time  on,  Israel  has  been  flocking  from  the  na- 
tions, to  meet  the  God  of  Israel  when  he  comes,  and  to  make  the 
necessary  preparation  for  his  coming.  All  this  by  virtue  of  the  keys 
restored  by  Moses,  and  conferred  upon  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery  in  the  Kirtland  Temple. 

JUDAH  TO  RETURN 

About  two  months  before  that  little  company  of  forty-one  Saints 
crossed  the  Atlantic  on  the  ship  Britannia,  a  notable  conference  was 
held  at  Nauvoo,  and  two  of  the  Apostles,  Orson  Hyde  and  John  E. 
Page,  were  called  to  go  to  Palestine  and  bless  that  land,  that  its 
barrenness  might  depart  and  the  way  be  opened  for  the  restoration  of 
the  Jews.  For  be  it  remembered  that  the  gathering  of  Israel  includes 
the  assembling  of  "the  dispersed  of  Judah" — their  return  to  their  an- 
cient homeland.  America  is  the  Land  of  Zion,  and  here  the  New  Jeru- 
salem will  stand.  But  Christ's  kingdom  will  have  two  capitals,  one 
in  the  Old  World;  one  in  the  New;  "for  out  of  Zion  shall  go  forth 
the  law,  and  the  word  of  the  Lord  from  Jerusalem." 

ORSON  HYDE  IN  PALESTINE 

John  E.  Page  faltered  and  fell  by  the  way;  but  Orson  Hyde  ac- 
complished his  mission,  though  beset  and  hindered  by  many  hard- 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ships  and  difficulties.  It  took  him  a  year  and  a  half  to  reach  the 
goal  for  which  he  had  set  out.  Finally,  on  the  24th  day  of  October, 
1841,  from  the  summit  of  the  Mount  of  Olives,  overlooking  Jerusalem, 
he  offered  to  Jehovah,  the  God  of  Israel,  a  most  fervent  and  eloquent 
prayer  in  behalf  of  his  covenant  people.  He  blessed  the  sterile  land 
by  the  power  of  the  holy  apostleship,  that  it  might  become  fruitful 
once  more,  and  that  Judah  might  repossess  his  ancient  heritage.  Af- 
terwards he  predicted  that  the  British  nation  would  take  an  active 
part  in  the  redemption  of  Palestine;  a  prophecy  fulfilled  at  the  close 
of  the  recent  World  War,  when  General  Allenby,  at  the  head  of  a 
British  army,  made  his  triumphal  entry  into  Jerusalem. 

LATER  MISSIONS  TO  THE  HOLY  LAND 

In  the  year  1872  a  mission  went  from  Salt  Lake  City  to 
the  Holy  Land.  President  George  A.  Smith  headed  the  party,  which 
also  included  Lorenzo  Snow,  one  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  his 
gifted  sister,  the  poet,  Eliza  R.  Snow.  Upon  reaching  Palestine, 
President  Smith  duplicated  the  work  done  by  Orson  Hyde  in  1841, 
dedicating  the  land  for  the  return  of  the  Jews  and  the  rebuilding  of 
Jerusalem.  Other  elders  of  the  Church  have  since  visited  that  once 
favored  and  yet  to  be  glorified  region.  President  Anthon  H.  Lund 
was  there  in  1898 ;  and  he  likewise  offered  up  an  earnest  prayer  for 
the  great  consummation.  All  this  because  Moses  restored  the  keys  for 
the  gathering  of  Israel  in  this  dispensation. 

THE  KEYS  OF  ELIJAH 

But  what  about  the  keys  of  Elijah?  What  is  their  significance? 
If  you  will  read  Sections  127  and  128  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
and  peruse  pages  27  to  35  of  "Joseph  Smith's  Teachings,"  you  will 
learn  what  the  founder  of  this  Church  had  in  mind  relative  to  that  im- 
portant matter.  In  connection  with  the  building  of  temples  and  the 
work  done  in  them  by  the  living  for  the  dead,  we  have  from  his  pen 
this  glorious  utterance :  "It  is  necessary,  in  the  ushering  in  of  the 
dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times,  .  .  .  that  a  whole  and  com- 
plete and  perfect  union  and  welding  together  of  dispensations  and  keys 
and  powers  and  glories  should  take  place  and  be  revealed  from  the 
days  of  Adam  even  to  the  present  time ;  and  not  only  this,  but  those 
things  which  never  have  been  revealed  from  the  foundation  of  the 
world,  but  have  been  kept  hid  from  the  wise  and  prudent,  shall  be 
revealed  unto  babes  and  sucklings  in  this  the  dispensation  of  the  ful- 
ness of  times." 

A   GREATER  GATHERING 

In  other  words,  there  is  to  be  another  gathering,  one  still  greater 
than  the  gathering  of  the  dispersed  house  of  Israel.    It  is  the  gath- 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


35 


ering  or  bringing  together  of  the  gospel  dispensations,  and  the  bind- 
ing of  all  into  one.  This  is  called  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of 
times,  and  its  peculiar  distinguishing  characteristic  is,  that  it  folds 
to  its  mighty  bosom  all  the  dispensations  preceding  it;  the  angels 
holding  the  keys  of  the  past  conferring  them  upon  the  Prophet  who 
presides  over  this  period  or  division  of  God's  work,  to  the  end  that 
oneness  and  unity  may  be  established  as  a  condition  precedent  to  the 
Savior's  Millennial  reign.  Therefore  came  Moses  and  Elijah,  John 
the  Baptist,  Peter,  James  and  John  and  others,  bringing  and  bestow- 
ing their  keys,  so  that  their  work  might  be  blended  with  the  work 
done  in  this  dispensation,  which  is  destined  to  gather  together  all 
things  that  are  Christ's,  both  in  heaven  and  on  earth.  Especially  was 
it  necessary  that  Elijah  should  restore  the  keys  of  his  calling  and 
ministry — keys  comprising  the  revelation  of  "the  fulness  of  the  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood,"  with  all  its  "ordinances,  oracles,  powers  and  en- 
dowments," the  seals  of  which  must  be  placed  upon  the  House  of 
Israel,  that  all  may  be  made  ready  for  Messiah's  advent. 

THE  WELDING  LINK 

The  Prophet  says  that  there  must  be  "a  welding  link  between  the 
fathers  and  the  children" — the  fathers  in  heaven  yearning  over  their 
children  on  earth ;  and  therefore  was  Elijah  sent.  His  keys  empower 
the  living  to  do  saving  work  for  the  dead  and  seal  them  up  to  come 
forth  in  the  first  resurrection ;  "to  seal  those  who  dwell  on  earth  to 
those  who  dwell  in  heaven."  "For  we  without  them  cannot  be  made 
perfect ;  neither  can  they  without  us  be  made  perfect."  "This  is  the 
power  of  Elijah  and  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  Jehovah."  The  weld- 
ing link  is  baptism  for  the  dead,  with  other  vicarious  work  now  go- 
ing on  in  the  temples  that  God's  people  have  erected.  You  brethren 
and  sisters  who  labor  in  these  temples  may  cherish  in  your  souls  the 
sweet  conviction  that  you  are  helping  to  bind  together  the  gospel  dis- 
pensations and  assisting  to  advance  the  mighty  purposes  of  God. 

THE  EVERLASTING  GOSPEL 

"Mormonism,"  as  it  is  called,  did  not  originate  in  the  nineteenth 
century.  It  is  not  of  any  one  time  nor  of  any  one  place.  It  is  the 
everlasting  gospel,  the  same  yesterday,  today  and  forever.  There 
never  has  been  and  never  will  be  another  gospel ;  but  this  one,  framed 
in  heaven,  has  been  upon  earth  again  and  again,  in  a  series  of  dispen- 
stations  reaching  like  a  mighty  chain  from  the  morning  of  creation 
down  to  the  end  of  time.  And  all  these  dispensations  must  be  linked  and 
bound  together  before  the  God  of  Israel  appears ;  for  unless  a  condi- 
tion of  unity  and  power,  resulting  from  faith  and  righteous  works, 
exists  at  that  time,  the  whole  earth  will  be  smitten  with  a  curse. 
Not  that  the  Lord  wishes  to  curse,  but  rather  to  bless  mankind.  But 
the  blessing  that  he  desires  to  bestow  at  his  coming  would  change  into 
a  consuming  curse,  if  the  necessary  preparation  were  not  made. 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


PERFECTION    THE  GOAL 

The  gospel  is  the  plan  of  eternal  progression,  and  perfection  is  its 
goal.  Apart  from  our  ancestors  who  figured  in  the  former  dispen- 
sations, neither  we  nor  they  can  attain  perfection.  But  by  unity, 
which  brings  power,  and  by  faith,  which  makes  all  things  possible,  the 
glorious  end  can  be  achieved.  The  sacred  ordinances  of  God's 
House — baptisms,  endowments,  sealings,  adoptions,  etc., — all  point  to 
a  perfect  state  of  righteous  love  and  unity.  Why,  for  instance, 
do  we  marry  for  eternity,  and  not  merely  for  time?  It  is  because 
we  are  children  of  eternity,  building  for  eternity,  and  "the  man  is  not 
without  the  woman  nor  the  woman  without  the  man,  in  the  Lord." 
Together  they  represent  completeness,  perfection;  separated,  they 
symbolize  incompleteness,  imperfection ;  and  nothing  imperfect  can  en- 
ter into  the  Divine  Presence.  Let  a  man  and  a  woman,  single  or  mar- 
ried only  for  time,  present  themselves  at  the  celestial  gates,  and  it 
will  be  said  to  them,  or  of  them,  as  it  was  said  at  the  gates  of  Verdun : 
"They  shall  not  pass."  But  they  who  are  wedded  for  eternity,  wedded 
according  to  God's  law  and  by  his  sealing  power  and  authority,  shall 
pass  by  the  angels  and  the  gods  and  inherit  a  fulness  of  joy.  The 
welding  link  must  bind  together  husband  and  wife,  parent  and  child, 
present  and  past,  living  and  dead — "all  things  in  Christ,"  to  the  end 
that  there  may  be  completeness,  perfection,  and  that  that  condition 
of  unity  and  love  may  prevail  which  is  the  required  preparation  for 
the  coming  of  the  Lord  in  his  glory.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "High  on  the  moun- 
tain top." 

Benediction  was  offered  by  Elder  Daniel  G.  Miller,  President  of 
the  Yellowstone  Stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Saturday  morning  at  10  a.  m. 


SECOND  DAY. 

Conference  convened  in  the  tabernacle,  Saturday  morning,  Octo- 
ber 9,  1920,  at  10  o'clock. 

The  congregation  was  called  to  order  by  President  Heber  J. 
Grant,  who  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a 
prophet." 

Opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Orville  H.  Budge,  President 
of  the  Logan  Stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "O  ye  mountains  high." 


ELDER  GEO.  F.  RICHARDS 


37 


ELDER  GEO.  F.  RICHARDS 

I  am  very  happy  to  be  able  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  my  feelings  are  in  perfect  accord  with  those  of  my  brethren 
as  expressed  in  their  remarks  in  the  sessions  of  the  conference  yester- 
day. I  hope  that  I  may  be  guided  in  my  remarks  by  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  so  as  to  speak  forth  the  word  of  the  Lord  in  truth,  that  it 
may  find  a  ready  response  in  the  hearts  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
that  perchance  we  may  be  pricked  in  our  hearts  and  be  resolved  that 
we  will,  with  the  help  of  the  Lord,  come  nearer  doing  his  will  in 
the  future  than  we  have  done  in  the  past,  for  our  own  good,  happiness, 
and  salvation  and  also  for  the  blessing  and  happiness  of  others  and 
the  glorifying  of  the  name  of  our  Lord. 

god's  purpose  in  creation 

I  call  your  attention,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  the  words  of 
the  Lord  to  his  servant  Moses,  spoken  to  him  in  the  mount  where  the 
Lord  talked  with  him  face  to  face.  The  Lord  said:  "Behold,  this  is, 
my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal 
life  of  man."  This  then,  I  conclude,  is  the  aim;  all  the  other  works 
of  God  are  but  a  means  to  this  end,  to  save  and  exalt  his  children 
with  him  in  his  kingdom.  For  this  purpose  the  earth  was  created, 
the  gospel  plan  was  instituted,  and  as  a  part  of  that  plan  the  Savior 
was  chosen  to  be  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  We  read  this  in  the 
holy  scriptures :  "For  God  so  loved  the  world  that  he  gave  his  Only 
Begotten  Son,  that  whosoever  believeth  in  him  should  not  perish,  but 
have  everlasting  life."  Whenever  I  have  occasion  to  use  this  passage 
of  scripture,  in  discourse,  I  feel  that  an  explanation  is  necessary,  or  at 
any  rate,  is  in  good  place,  because  of  the  fact  that  this  scripture  is  used 
so  largely  by  religionists  in  the  world  to  justify  themselves  in  the 
belief,  that  faith  only,  is  necessary  to  salvation;  that  our  Savior  has 
done  all,  and  that  all  that  is  necessary  for  us  to  do  is  to  acknowledge 
him  and  his  work,  and  we  will  be  saved.  This  is  a  misunderstanding 
of  the  word  of  the  Lord.  An  explanation  is  found  in  the  following 
scripture :  "He  that  believeth  on  me,  the  works  that  I  do  shall  he  do 
also."  So  that  it  is  doing  the  works  such  as  Christ  did  that  is  going 
to  save  us,  rather  than  the  mere  intellectual  assent  or  profession  of 
faith  in  him  and  his  ministry. 

LOVE,  SACRIFICE,  AND  SERVICE 

There  is  another  impressive  passage  of  Scripture,  also  corrobor- 
ative of  this  fact  which  reads :  "Though  he  were  a  son,  yet  learned  he 
obedience  by  the  things  which  he  suffered,  and  being  made  perfect  he 
became^  the  author  of  eternal  salvation  unto  all  them  that  obey  him." 
There  is  much  other  corroborative  scripture. 

Now  returning  to  that  expression  that  "God  so  loved  the  world 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


that  he  gave  his  only  Begotten  Son,  that  whosoever  believeth  in  him 
should  not  perish,  but  have  everlasting  life."  We  see  in  this  three 
great  principles  exemplified,  viz. :  love,  sacrifice,  and  service.  The 
love  of  God  our  Father  for  his  children  led  him  to  give  his  first- 
born Son,  in  the  spirit,  his  Only-Begotten  in  the  flesh,  to  a  life  of 
sorrow  and  an  ignominious  death,  that  they  might  be  redeemed  and 
saved  in  his  kingdom  on  conditions  of  obedience  unto  the  laws  and 
ordinances  of  the  gospel.  Then  we  find  the  Son  also,  because  of 
the  love  that  he  bore  for  us,  his  brothers  and  sisters,  giving  himself 
voluntarily.  He  said:  "I  lay  down  my  life  for  the  sheep. 
No  man  taketh  it  from  me,  but  I  lay  it  down  of  my- 
self," and  he  said  again:  "Greater  love  hath  no  man  than  this:  that 
a  man  lay  down  his  life  for  his  friends."  Here  we  find  the  love  again, 
an  example  to  the  human  family.  Here  we  find  again  sacrifice,  all 
that  could  be  made,  a  willingness  to  do  the  will  of  his  Father  at  what- 
ever cost  of  sorrow  and  of  suffering.  Here  we  find  a  service  rendered 
to  the  children  of  men  necessary  for  their  salvation ;  and  the  salva- 
tion of  men  should  be  the  prize,  the  pearl  of  great  price,  to  be 
desired  by  them  above  any  and  all  other  blessings. 

LET  US  BE  BOTH  HEARERS  AND  DOERS  OF  THE  WORD 

We  were  told  by  President  Grant  yesterday,  in  concluding  his 
remarks,  that  what  he  desired  is,  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  will  keep 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  I  thought,  when  he  made  that  re- 
mark, of  our  weaknesses  as  a  people.  We  are  prone  in  this  day  and 
dispensation,  as  others  have  been  in  previous  dispensations — as  evi- 
denced by  the  nature  of  the  counsel  and  instructions  given  by  the 
prophets  of  old — to  hear  the  word  of  the  Lord  and  be  not  doers  of  it, 
or  doers  of  it  only  in  part.  We  go  forth  into  the  world  bearing  the 
message  of  the  gospel,  and  we  tell  the  people  it  is  not  sufficient  to  say : 
"Lord,  Lord ;"  that  that  will  not  save  them  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven, 
but  they  must  do  the  will  of  our  Father  which  is  heaven,  and  his  will 
has  been  expressed  in  the  life  and  teachings  of  our  Savior  and  of 
the  apostles  and  prophets  which  have  gone  before  and  which  are 
recorded  here  in  the  Holy  Bible  and  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  We 
tell  them  that  an  assent  merely  to  these  things  is  not  all  that  is  neces- 
sary. Some  of  us  have  entered  the  Church  by  baptism  and  confirma- 
tion to  membership,  and  we  have  halted  by  the  way.  Many  of  us  have 
stopped  progress,  we  are  hearers  only,  of  the  word  of  the  Lord  in 
regard  to  bearing  false  witness,  in  regard  to  honesty,  in  regard  to  our 
tithes,  our  offerings,  and  many  other  requirements  which  are  made 
upon  us.  What  we  most  need,  it  seems  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
is  to  be  impressed  with  the  necessity  of  doing  the  things  that  we 
know  we  ought  to  do.  We  are  well  enough  educated  as  a  people. 
We  know  what  we  should  do  in  order  to  obtain  salvation;  and  be- 
cause we  know  these  things,  if  we  do  not  do  them,  we  will  be  under 
condemnation. 


ELDER  GEO.  F.  RICHARDS 


39 


HOW  WE  MAY  ASSIST  THE  LORD  IN  HIS  PURPOSE 

I  would  like,  if  I  could,  to  impress  my  hearers  on  this  occasion, 
with  the  necessity  of  assisting  the  Lord  in  the  great  work  that  he  has 
undertaken,  to  save  and  exalt  the  souls  of  men  and  women.  He  need  ? 
our  assistance.  He  has  called  upon  us  to  so  live  before  the  world  that 
they,  seeing  our  good  works,  will  be  led  to  glorify"  our  Father  in 
heaven.  That  is  one  way,  in  which  we  can  assist  the  Lord  in  the 
accomplishment  of  this  particular  purpose,  by  being  obedient  unto 
him,  by  making  his  mind  and  his  will  our  mind  and  our  will,  even 
as  Christ  our  Savior  who  was  the  great  exemplar  and  prototype  of 
mankind  did,  for  he  set  the  example  and  told  us  to  follow  him.  We 
are  required  to  walk  in  the  light  as  he  was  in  the  light,  with  the  prom- 
ise that  if  we  will  do  so,  we  shall  have  fellowship  one  with  another, 
in  him,  and  his  blood  will  cleanse  us  from  all  sin ;  but  there  are  other 
things  that  we  are  called  upon  to  do.  We  are  called  to  love  one  an- 
other and  to  sacrifice  and  to  serve  one  another.  The  Savior  on  one 
occasion  was  asked  by  a  certain  lawyer,  who  thought  to  entrap  him 
in  his  sayings :  "Master,  which  is  the  great  commandment  ?"  The 
answer  of  the  Savior  was :  "Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with 
all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind.  This  is 
the  first  great  commandment  and  the  second  is  like  unto  it:  thou 
shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself."  Even  as  our  Father  and  as  our 
Savior  loved  the  children  of  men,  we  are  required  to  love  them 
also,  even  as  we  love  ourselves.  There  would  be  no  bick-biting,  there 
would  be  no  evil-speaking,  there  would  be  no  taking  advantage  of 
others,  if  we  loved  them  as  we  love  ourselves.  There  would  be  noth- 
ing left  undone  that  we  could  do  for  the  comfort  of  others,  if  we 
loved  them  as  we  love  ourselves.  If  we  loved  the  Lord  with  all  our 
heart,  we  would  give  to  him  our  lives  and  everything  that  we  possess, 
if  necessary,  to  assist  him  in  this  great  work. 

WHAT  CONSTITUTES  THE  STRAIGHT  AND  NARROW  WAY? 

This  gospel  we  have  received  is  one  of  sacrifice,  service  and  self- 
abnegation  from  beginning  to  end.  That  is  what'  constitutes  the 
straight  and  narrow  way  that  leads  to  life  eternal.  Some  of  us  are 
more  faithful,  some  are  less  faithful  than  others  in  our  sacrifices. 
My  brethren  and  sisters,  there  will  come  a  time  of  accounting,  and 
we  will  be  judged  and  rewarded  according  to  the  sacrifices  which  we 
make,  and  the  services  we  render  to  God  and  to  our  fellowmen.  Let 
me  tell  you  here  that  when  we  undertake  to  glorify  our  Father  in 
heaven  by  living  a  good  life,  we  help  others  along  the  way.  Religion, 
true  religion  of  the  Master,  is  so  different  from  politics.  When  we 
aspire  to  an  office  as  politicians,  and  become  candidates,  our  only 
hope  of  success  is  in  the  defeat  and  disappointment  of  somebody  else. 
In  this  great  work,  if  I,  through  the  help  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  suc- 
cessful in  saving  my  own  soul,  it  will  be  through  works  of  righteous- 
ness, through  a  good  example  which  will  be  helpful,  and  no  person 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


will  be  deprived  of  the  blessings  he  is  laboring  for  because  of  my 
success,  but  just  the  reverse,  he  will  be  helped  along  the  way.  Now 
in  this  work  of  sacrifice  and  of  service,  we  need  encouragement,  and 
stimulation. 

GET  SOMEBODY  ELSE 

There  is  a  little  poem  that  I  desire  to  recite  to  you  because  I 
feel  that  it  will  have  this  effect.  And  let  me  say  here,  that  I  believe 
in  the  poets.  I  believe  there  is  much  inspiration  from  the  Lord 
outside  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  in  vari- 
ous ways,  not  the  lest  of  which  is  found  among  the  poets.  This  little 
poem  is  entitled  "Get  Somebody  Else."  The  Lord  is  always  to  his 
servants  calling,  something  more  for  us  to  do.  Are  we  willing,  or 
are  we  too  mluch  engrossed  with  the  affairs  of  life  ?  The  little  poem 
reads : 

The  Lord  had  a  job  for  me 

But  I  had  so  much  to  do; 
I  said,  "you  get  somebody  else, 

Or  wait  till  I  get  through." 
I  don't  know  how  the  Lord  came  out; 

No  doubt  he  got  along, 
But  I  felt  kind  o'  sneakin'  like, 

I  knew  I'd  done  God  wrong. 

One  day  I  needed  the  Lord 

Needed  him  right  away, 
But  he  never  answered  me  at  all, 

And  I  could  hear  him  say, 
Down  in  my  accusing  heart: 

"Child,  I've  got  too  much  to  do. 
You  get  somebody  else, 

Or  wait  till  I  get  through." 

Now,  when  the  Lord  has  a  job  for  me, 

I  never  try  to  shirk, 
I  drop  what  I  have  in  hand 

And  do  the  Lord's  good  work. 
And  my  affairs  can  run  along. 

Or  wait  till  I  get  through. 
Nobody  else  can  do  the  work 

God  has  marked  out  for  you. 

I  feel  that  I  have  occupied  all  the  time  that  I  should,  and  will 
close  my  remarks  here,  with  my  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  I  know  that  this  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  it  has 
in  it  the  power  of  God  unto  happiness  and  salvation,  in  this  life,  and 
in  the  life  to  come ;  and  I  exhort  you,  with  all  the  earnestness  of  my 
soul,  to  live  up  to  the  light  which  you  have  received  in  the  gospel,  and 
promise  you,  as  a  reward,  eternal  life  in  the  kingdom  of  our  God. 
This  I  do  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  solo,  "Thou  wilt  keep  him  in  perfect  peace",  was  sung  by  Royal 
W.  Daynes. 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


41 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

It  is  an  inspiration  always  to  meet  with  the  Latter-day  Saints  in 
conference.  I  rejoice  with  you  in  having  this  opportunity  of  listening 
to  the  words  of  love  and  inspiration  with  which  this  conference  has 
been  favored.  I  am  overwhelmed,  as  I  stand  here  and  face  this  large 
interested  audience,  but  I  am  free  to  say  to  you  that  if  I  had  my  choice 
I  would  not  choose  to  speak  to  you,  men  of  the  Priesthood,  and  faith- 
ful women  in  the  Church.  I  should  prefer  to  give  whatever  message 
I  have  in  my  heart  to  another  audience,  this  morning,  which  is  scat- 
tered all  up  and  down  these  counties  and  towns  and  valleys  of  the 
western  states.  I  should  like  to  speak  to  your  boys  and  to  your  girls, 
to  their  playmates  wherever  they  may  be.  However,  since  we  have 
but  very  few  of  them  here,  I  shall  have  to  speak  to  them  through 
you,  because  after  all  this  conference,  inspiring  as  it  may  be,  is  not 
an  end  in  itself.  The  purpose  of  it  shall  not  have  been  attained  until 
the  messages  through  you  reach  your  sons  and  your  daughters,  and 
your  neighbors'  sons  and  daughters.  Your  happiness,  your  peace, 
depends  upon  your  ability  to  get  the  message  into  their  hearts. 

TO  BE  CARNALLY-MINDED  IS  DEATH  TO  BE  SPIRITUALLY-MINDED  IS  LIFE 

AND  PEACE 

If  they  were  here  this  morning  I  would  read  the  following  text : 
"To  be  carnally-minded  is  death,  but  to  be  spiritually-minded  is  life  and 
peace."  Glorious  words  these — life,  peace.  The  whole  purpose  and 
end  of  existence  is  life,  and  to  obtain  in  that  life,  peace.  Eternal  life- — 
we  have  heard  from  Elder  Richards,  that  the  work  and  glory  of  God 
are  to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man — and  our 
purpose  wherever  we  may  be,  is  to  live. 

THE  HAPPY  LIFE  COMES  FROM  OBEDIENCE  TO  LAW 

I  believe  that  we  can  meet  our  boys  on  that  plane  and  appeal  to 
them,  and  show  them  that  the  best  life,  the  happiest  life  is  the  life 
that  is  prompted  by  the  ideals  of  true  religion.  Many  of  them  will 
turn  aside  when  you  say  you  are  going  to  preach  to  them.  I  do  not 
always  blame  them.  I  believe  that  too  many  of  us  stand  on  the  side, 
as  it  were,  and  call  to  them  to  come  back  without  ever  entering  into 
their  lives. 

I  was  reminded  this  morning  of  an  old  story  that  appeared  in  one 
of  our  early  school  books.  Many  of  you  present  will  remember  it,  so  I 
need  not  repeat  it  to  you.  You  remember  the  author  pictures  some 
people  sailing  down  the  river  towards  the  Niagara  Falls,  and  the 
man  on  the  shore  cries : 

"Young  men,  ahoy,  the  rapids  are  below  you !" 

But  they  went  on  laughing  and  carousing.   Later  he  cried : 

"Young  men,  ahoy,  the  rapids  are  below  you!" 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


But  they  heeded  not  his  warning  call  until  they  suddenly  realized 
that  they  were  in  the  midst  of  the  rapids,  and  with  all  the  power  at 
their  command  they  failed  to  turn  their  boat  upstream,  so,  he  says, 
shrieking  and  cursing  over  they  go ! 

Well,  it  is  a  very  impressive  picture.  The  lesson  left  an  indelible 
impression  upon  me,  but  today  it  seems  incomplete.  It  is  one  thing 
to  stand  on  the  shore  and  cry:  Young  men,  ahoy,  there  is  danger 
ahead ;  and  it  is  another  thing  to  row  into  the  stream,  and,  if  possible, 
get  into  the  boat  with  the  young  men  and  by  companionship,  and  by 
persuasion,  by  legitimate  force,  when  necessary,  turn  the  boat  from 
the  rapids.  Too  many  of  us  stand  on  the  shore  and  cry:  Young 
men,  ahoy !  Let  us  get  into  their  lives,  let  us  touch  their  personality  by 
our  personality,  and  let  them  feel  that  there  is  something  real  in  this 
religion ;  that  it  is  the  greatest  thing  in  life,  that  nothing  else  can 
make  them  live  as  the  true  religious  life.  When  they  feel  this  they  love 
it,  and  until  they  do  feel  it,  until  they  do  sense  an  immediate  bless- 
ing, following  activity,  we  are  going  to  find  difficulty  in  calling  them 
into  that  realm  where  there  is  peace.  Young  people  say :  "We  want 
to  live.  That  is  just  what  we  are  going  to  do.  Let  us  have  life,  and 
have  a  good  time."  But  their  view  is  often  distorted.  They  are 
seeking  to  live  in  the  physical  pleasures.  They  are  seeking  to  live  in 
the  realm  that  brings  only  immediate  sensation,  and  afterwards  no 
peace.  They  fail  to  distinguish  between  the  carnal  pleasures  and  those 
which  are  intellectual  and  spiritual.  I  am  not  going  to  ask  them  not 
to  have  a  good  time.  I  think  they  should  have  a  good  time.  Young 
men  and  young  women  are  entitled  to  it ;  all  men  and  all  women  are 
entitled  to  it.  We  are  all  here  to  enjoy  life  in  its  fullest  and  most  com- 
plete sense ;  but  the  message  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  this :  that 
to  live  one  must  live  in  obedience  to  law,  physical  lam,  intellectual  law, 
spiritual  law.  Transgression  of  law  always  brings  unhappiness,  it  al- 
ways brings  death  when  carried  to  the  ultimate  end. 

HE  WHO  PLAYS  THE  CROOKED  GAME  LOSES 

I  was  deeply  impressed,  and  I  hope  the  young  men  of  the  United 
States  were  impressed,  with  the  remark  made  by  one  who  was  na- 
tionally disgraced  recently  when  he  said,  it  seems  to  me,  in  a  rather 
repentant  spirit:  "I  have  played  a  crooked  game,  and  I  have  lost." 
Boys,  that  is  the  story  of  every  one  who  plays  the  crooked  game. 
The  one  who  plays  the  game  straight,  who  deep  down  in  his  soul 
does  the  right  thing,  because  it  is  right,  is  the  man  who  has  that  peace 
and  contentment  that  we  all  so  much  long  for. 

HE  LIVES  MOST  WHO  LISTENS  TO  THE  URGENCE  FOR  A  HIGHER,  BETTER 

LIFE 

Let  us  seek  to  live  intellectually.  I  welcome  with  all  my  heart 
the  hundreds,  and  the  thousands  of  boys  and  girls  who  are  participat- 
ing in  the  realm  of  education  in  the  auxiliary  associations,  and  in  the 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


43 


Church  schools.  What  are  they  learning  to  do  but  to  live! — to  live 
completely  and  abundantly;  and  in  the  living  to  serve — serve  their 
fellow  men.  He  lives  most  who  sees  or  hears  "Tongues  in  trees,  books 
in  the  runnig  brooks,  sermons  in  stones,  and  good  in  everything."  He 
lives  most  who  sees  beyond  these  trees,  these  stones,  these  running 
brooks  and  sees  God  and  goodness  in  it  all,  who  sees  an  overruling 
providence  in  all  this  world  and  recognizes  God's  children  as  brothers 
and  sisters,  in  every  one  of  whom  there  is  something  good,  ever  striv- 
ing, to  lift  the  man  up  out  of  the  sensual  world  into  the  realm  of 
true  religion.  I  believe  that  there  is  in  every  human  soul  a  something 
good  calling  for  something  better,  very  much  as  that  something  of  life 
mentioned  by  Lowell  when  he  said,  referring  to  spring,  "Every  clod 
feels  a  stir  of  might,  an  instinct  within  it  that  reaches  and  towers 
and  groping  blindly  about,  it  for  light,  climbs  to  a  soul  in  leaf  and 
flower."  So  there  is  in  the  human  soul  that  divine  element  which  is 
calling,  striving,  urging  the  person  up  to  a  higher,  to  a  better  life. 
Boys  and  girls  should  do  right  because  it  is  right.  The  day  is  past 
when  you  can  threaten  them  with  punishment  hereafter.  The  world 
has  passed  by  the  fears  of  a  fire  and  eternal  torment.  They  can  be 
appealed  to,  however,  upon  the  sound  pirnciples  of  true  religious  liv- 
ing. It  is  the  best  because  it  works  best.  It  is  the  best  because  it 
makes  us  happy  and  better  here  and  now.  We  are  better  citizens,  we 
are  better  friends,  we  are  better  football  players,  we  are  better  stu- 
dents, we  are  better  sons,  we  are  better  daughters,  we  are  better  every- 
thing, and  the  world  should  know'  it.  When  we  take  the  opposite  view, 
as  many  of  our  boys  unfortunately  are  doing,  and  seek  life  in  im- 
mediate pleasures,  transitory  pleasures,  indeed,  we  find  only  disap- 
pointment and  eventually  death,  for  to  be  carnally  minded  is  death, 
but  to  be  spiritually  minded  is  life  and  peace.  "Live  while  you  live, 
the  Epicure  would  say,  and  seize  the  pleasure  of  the  present  day." 
That  is  one  view.  "Live  while  you  live,  the  sacred  preacher  cries,  and 
give  to  God  each  moment  as  it  flies ;"  the  other :  "Lord,  in  my  view, 
let  both  united  be.    I  live  in  pleasure  when  I  live  to  thee." 

PHYSICAL  PLEASURES  TO  BE  AVOIDED 

There  is  no  peace  in  yielding  to  the  temptation  to  transgress  the 
laws  of  virtue  and  chastity.  If  there  is  one  thing  in  all  this  world 
for  which  we  should  be  thankful  as  Latter-day  Saints,  it  is  that  there 
is  a  sentiment,  founded  upon  the  solid  basis  of  revelation  from  God, 
that  chastity  among  the  young  is  as  sacred  as  life  itself.  One  of  the 
most  disintegrating  influences  today  is  that  feeling  that  is  creeping 
in  amongst  some  of  our  young  boys  and  young  girls  that  they  can 
violate  the  law  of  chastity  with  impunity.  The  law  of  the  land  may 
not  reach  them — they  may  avoid  that.  Their  bishops  may  not  detect 
their  transgression.  But  God  can.  And  deep  down  in  their  own  souls 
they  know  that  they  have  lost  part  of  their  life.  They  have  lived  as 
the  Epicure  would  live,  for  the  moment,  and  they  have  no  peace.  Their 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


souls  are  turbulent.  Why?  Because  they  have  stained  the  character  of 
another,  they  have  stained  their  own  souls  eternally.  No  one  can  trans- 
gress the  laws  of  chastity  and  find  peace.  That  is  the  message  to  our 
boys,  to  our  girls.  No  matter  what  the  opportunity,  no  matter  what 
the  temptation,  let  the  young  man  of  Israel  know  that  to  find  happiness 
he  must  hold  sacred  his  true  manhood,  let  him  know  that  he  is  going 
to  live  and  live  completely  by  refusing  to  yield'  to  that  temptation. 
Then  he  is  happy;  he  is  happy.  There  is  peace  instead  of  turbulency 
in  his  soul. 

Next  to  that  disintegrating  evil,  is  the  evil  mentioned  by  President 
Clawson,  tobacco — young  men  who  are  just  learning  to  indulge  in 
this  physical  pleasure,  this  sensual  appetite,  have  been  told  by  you 
parents,  not  to  smoke.  Some  of  the  young  men  are  not  doing  it  in 
your  presence.  Some  of  your  boys  you  think  have  not  become  addicted 
to  that  habit.  In  trying  to  correct  this  evil,  have  you  stood  aside  and 
cried,  Young  man,  ahoy,  there  is  danger  down  there?  Or  have  you 
tried  to  touch  his  soul?  Have  you  tried  to  convert  him  to  the  fact 
that  to  indulge  in  the  pernicious  habit  is  to  take  part  of  his  life,  to 
weaken  his  physical  being?  Have  you  studied  how  to  convince  him 
of  it?  If  you  haven't  you  are  standing  on  the  shore  simply  crying  to 
him  instead  of  plunging  in  and  trying  to  guide  him  around. 

The  gospel  of  Jessu  Christ  when  lived  in  its  fulness,  as  we  were 
admonished  yesterday  by  the  President  in  the  keynote  of  this  confer- 
ence, gives  peace,  life,  physical  life,  intellectual  life,  spiritual  life. 

The  Word  of  Wisdom  is  a  law  that  applies  directly  to  the  phys- 
ical world,  the  physical  salvation  and  peace  of  man.  Too  many  of  our 
boys  are  unconverted  to  it.  We  haven't  touched  them  by  our  appeals. 
We  haven't  given  them  facts,  perhaps.  They  think  we  are  preaching, 
simply  crying  to  them  to  come  back.  I  would  that  every  young  man 
knew  this :  that  every  person  who  indulges  in  the  use  of  tobacco  simply 
hampers  his  physical  well-being  to  the  extent  that  he  uses  that  narcotic. 
Let  us  appeal  to  them.  Let  us  unite  as  a  body  in  the  campaign  that  is 
now  abroad  in  our  land  to  eliminate  the  use  of  that  weed,  from  our 
communities.  The  time  has  come  when  the  Latter-day  Saints  should 
stand  by  their  principles,  not  on  the  bank  crying,  but  in  the  midst  of 
the  young,  out  with  them,  in  their  quarters,  out  with  them  to  the 
picture  shows,  go  out  with  them,  mingle  with  them.  It  is  all  right 
to  talk  about  the  sacredness  and  the  influence  of  our  homes,  and  there 
is  no  one  that  will  stand  more  solidly  behind  the  importance  of  having 
the  right  influence  in  the  home  than  I,  but  the  fact  remains  that  our 
boys  are  going  out  at  night,  night  after  night ;  and  you  and  I  are  out 
of  our  homes,  during  the  day,  so  we  are  not  associating  with  them 
very  often  in  their  homes,  and  it  behooves  us  to  get  out  into  the  pleas- 
ures more  than  we  have,  to  go  to  their  shows  with  them,  aye  and  go 
to  their  parties  and  become  acquainted  and  touch  their  lives.  Then 
we  may  know,  whether  or  not  they  are  taking  a  cigarette  once  in  a 
while.    We  can  detect  their  breath,  perhaps.    We  can  see  the  com- 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


45 


panions  with  whom  they  are  associated,  and  we  can  judge  our  boys 
and  our  girls  greatly  by  the  companions  they  keep,  as  well  as  by  their 
actions  in  the  home.  To  boys  I  would  say,  that  if  they  want  to  live 
physically,  if  they  want  to  be  men  strong  in  body,  vigorous  in  mind, 
if  they  want  to  be  good  sports,  enter  the  basket  ball  game,  enter  the 
football  game,  enter  the  contest  in  running  and  jumping,  if  they  want 
to  be  good  scouts,  if  they  want  to  be  good  citizens,  in  business,  any- 
where, avoid  tobacco  and  live  strictly  the  religious  life.  I  am  not 
afraid  to  call  it  the  religious  life  to  them.  It  is  not  a  thing  that  will 
make  them  gloomy  and  sad.  Live  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  it 
is  the  science  of  life  revealed  from  on  high.  Make  them  feel  it  as  you 
feel  it  and  I  am  sure  we  are  going  to  save  them,  and  by  that  I  mean 
we  are  going  to  make  them  live  happier  and  better.  If  we  need  any 
test,  anything  to  help  us  on  that,  to  appeal  to  them,  we  can  find  plenty 
of  material  to  help  us.  I  would  like  the  boys  to  understand  that 
the  revelation  given  by  the  prophet  Joseph  is  borne  testimony  to,  today, 
by  thousands  and  thousands  of  men  and  women.  Here  is  one  testi- 
mony, which  I  would  like  to  read.  It  comes  from  a  man  who  spent 
many  years  in  the  study  of  opium,  in  curing  drunkenness,  and  who  is 
now  striving  to  cure  the  habit  of  tobacco.  He  has  spent  many  years 
in  the  Orient  and  he  has  seen  the  effect  of  opium  upon  the  eastern 
people. 

A  COMPARISON 

He  compares  the  effect  of  the  cigarette  with  that  of  opium.  Mr. 
Charles  B.  Towne  in  Habits  that  Handicap  says: 

I  have  spent  a  good  deal  of  time  in  the  Orient  in  the  interest  of  those 
who  are  trying  to  subdue  the  opium  evil,  and  I  may  add  that  there  is  in 
China  today  a  flourishing  concern  which  has  grown  rich  out  of  the  sale 
of  cigarettes.  With  the  extremely  cheap  Chinese  labor  the  concern  was 
able  to  sell  twenty  cigarettes  for  a  cent  of  our  money.  Up  to  the  be- 
ginning of  this  enterprise,  about  1800',  the  Chinese  had  never  used  to- 
bacco, except  in  pipes  and  in  very  minute  quantities  and  in  rolling  their 
own  crude  cigarettes.  The  concern  was  sending  salesmen  and  demon- 
strators through  the  country  to  show  the  people  how  to  smoke  cigarettes. 
Now  it  is  estimated  that  one-half  of  the  cigarette  consumption  of  the 
world  is  in  China.  In  trying  to  lessen  the  opium  evil,  in  which  they  have 
to  a  very  considerable  extent  succeeded,  the  Chinese  are  merely  substitut- 
ing the  cigarette  evil.  It  is  well  known  to  the  confirmed  opium  smoker 
that  he  needs  less  opium  if  he  smokes  cigarettes.  The  Chinese  are  spend- 
ing today  twice  as  much  money  for  tobacco  as  for  opium.  If  any  one 
thinks  that  China  is  the  gainer  by  substituting  one  drug  habit  for  the 
other  I  beg  leave  to  differ.  The  opium  smoker  smokes  in  private  with 
other  smokers,  and  is  thus  not  offensive  to  other  people.  He  is  not  in- 
juring non-smokers,  or  arousing  the  curiosity  of  boys,  or  polluting  the 
atmosphere,  or  creating  a  craving  in  others.  In  the  West  the  opium  habit 
is  generally  condemned,  because  the  west  is  able  to  look  with  a  new  and 
unbiased  mind  on  a  drug  habit  that  is  not  its  own.  I  consider  that  cig- 
arette smoking  is  the  greatest  vice  devastating  humanity  today,  because 
it  is  doing  more  than  any  other  vice  to  deteriorate  the  race. 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


HOW  LIFE  AND  PEACE  COME 

To  be  carnally  minded  is  death,  but  to  be  spiritually  minded  is  life 
and  peace — peace  that  comes  by  obedience  to  principle,  peace  that 
comes  by  overcoming  habits,  evil  habits,  peace  that  comes  by  self- 
mastery  over  appetite  and  over  passion,  the  peace  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

A  man  must  earn  his  hour  of  peace, 

Must  pay  for  it,  with  hours  of  strife  and  care, 

Must  win  by  toil  the  evening's  sweet  release, 

The  rest  that  may  be  portioned  for  his  share. 

The  idler  never  knows  it,  never  can. 

Peace  is  the  glory  of  the  happy  man, 

And  man  must  win  contentment  for  his  soul, 

Must  battle  for  it  bravely  day  by  day. 

The  peace  he  seeks  is  not  a  nearby  goal. 

To  claim  it  he  must  tread  a  rugged  way. 

The 'shirker  never  knows  a  tranquil  peace, 

Peace  but  rewards  the  man  who  does  his  best. 

God  help  us  as  men  of  the  Priesthood,  as  fathers  and  as  mothers, 
to  reach  our  boys  and  our  girls,  and  impress  upon  them  this  great 
lesson,  this  divine  truth  that  to  be  carnally  minded  is  to  be  miserable, 
unhappy,  perhaps  not  for  the  time  being,  but  to  lose  part  of  our  very 
life.  To  be  spiritually  minded,  which  means  to  obey  the  principles 
of  the  gospel  in  all  that  it  means,  is  to  have  life,  life  eternal  and  peace. 
1  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

Now,  it  came  to  pass  that  the  people  of  Nephi,  under  the  reign  of  the 
second  king,  began  to  grow  hard  in  their  hearts,  and  indulge  themselves 
somewhat  in  wicked  practices; 

Yea,  a«d  they  also  began  to  search  much  gold  and  silver,  and  began 
to  be  lifted  up  somewhat  in  pride; 

Wherefore  I,  Jacob,  gave  unto  them  these  words  as  I  taught  them  in 
the  temple,  having  firstly  obtained  mine  errand  from  the  Lord. 

For  I,  Jacob,  and  my  brother  Joseph,  had  been  consecrated  priests,  and 
teachers  of  this  people,  by  the  hand  of  Nephi. 

And  we  did  magnify  our  office  unto  the  Lord,  taking  upon  us  the  re- 
sponsibility, answering  the  sins  of  the  people  upon  our  own  heads,  if  we 
did  not  teach  them  the  word  of  God  with  all  diligence;  wherefore,  by  la- 
boring with  our  mights,  their  blood  might  not  come  upon  our  garments, 
otherwise,  their  blood  would  come  upon  our  garments,  and  we  would  not 
be  found  spotless  at  the  last  day. 

THE  TEACHER  MUST  EXEMPLIFY  IN  DAILY  LIFE  THE  DOCTRINES  TAUGHT 

When  I  came  into  the  conference  yesterday,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, I  had  no  thought  regarding  what  I  might  say,  if  called  upon  to 
address  you,  as  I  expected,  because  of  past  precedent,  that  I  would  be ; 
but  since  the  beginning  of  the  exercises  these  words  of  Jacob,  the 
brother  of  Nephi,  called  and  ordained  under  his  hand  to  be  a  priest  and 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


47 


teacher  to  the  Nephite  people,  were  brought  to  my  mind,  because  of  the 
character  of  the  services.  I  read  these  words  many  years  ago,  when  I 
was  only  a  boy,  and  was  profoundly  impressed  by  them,  for  I  reasoned 
that  as  the  responsibility  of  teaching  the  word  of  the  Lord  rests  upon 
him  who  has  been  appointed  to  that  particular  calling  in  the  Church,  it 
devolves  upon  every  member  of  the  Church  to  give  heed  to  the  words 
so  taught,  because  they  come  as  from  the  Lord  himself.  They  did  to 
me,  and  I  thought,  this  responsibility  rests  not  alone  upon  the  presiding 
authorities  of  the  Church,  but  every  member  of  it ;  for  there  has  never 
been  a  time,  I  suppose,  in  the  history  of  the  world,  when  the  Priesthood 
has  been  so  universally  bestowed  upon  the  members  of  the  Church  as 
it  has  been  in  this  dispensation.  So  I  reasoned  that  while  the  respon- 
sibility is  not,  perhaps,  upon  me,  to  the  same  extent,  to  stand  as  a 
teacher  of  the  word  of  the  Lord,  having  taken  upon  me  the  name  of 
Christ,  and  having  identified  myself  with  his  Church,  and  entered  into 
covenant  with  him  that  I  would,  with  his  assistance,  keep  his  com- 
mandments, I  must  in  my  daily  life  exemplify  the  doctrines  which  he 
taught. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  addressing  you  this  morning  I 
deeply  feel  this  responsibility,  and  I  have  always  felt  it  when  I  have 
stood  up  to  expound  the  scripture  or  exhort  my  brethren  and  sisters 
in  the  Church. 

FOUNDATION  PRINCIPLES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  foundation  upon  which  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  rests  is  faith  in  God  the  eternal  Father,  recognition  of  his 
power,  recognition  of  his  relationship  to  us  as  the  Father  of  the  spirits 
of  all  men,  recognition  of  the  control  which  he  has  over  the  universe 
and  all  of  the  creations  of  his  hands.  We  must  have  faith  in  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  World,  believe  that  he  was  verily  the  Son  of  God,  our 
elder  brother ;  that  he  came  to  earth  in  order  that  God  might  be  man- 
ifest in  the  flesh,  that  men  and  women  might  see  the  Lord  as  he  was, 
might  hear  him  as  he  would  have  spoken  had  he  been  in  person  upon 
the  earth,  might  see  his  life,  and  know  by  his  life  what  the  life  of  the 
Father  would  have  been  had  he  been  upon  earth ;  might  hear  his  voice 
and  listen  to  his  admonition,  which  was  the  voice  of  God,  the  Eternal 
Father,  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth.  That  is  the  foundation  upon 
which  the  Church  rests.  We  must  believe  in  the  Father  and  in  the  Son, 
and  recognize  the  fact  that  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  is  given  to  all  who 
accept  the  Father  and  the  Son,  is  the  power  and  Spirit  of  God  by 
which  men  are  led  in  the  way  of  everlasting  life,  by  which  they  are 
given  power  over  evil,  by  which  they  may  learn  to  do  well. 

THE  SAINTS  MUST  ASSUME  RESPONSIBILITY  OF  CARRYING  THESE  INTO 

EFFECT 

Once  having  assumed  these  responsibilities,  then  conues  the  more 
difficult  task — clothed  upon  as  we  are  with  mortality — of  carrying 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


them  into  effect  in  our  daily  lives.  It  is  a  very  great  responsibility, 
my  brethren  and  sisters.  Never  before,  in  the  history  of  the  world, 
has  there  been  a  greater  necessity  for  the  exemplification  of  the  doc- 
trines of  the  Redeemer  in  the  lives  of  the  members  of  the  Church  than 
at  the  present  time,  because  the  world  needs  those  influences.  Without 
them  I  see  very  little  hope  for  the  world.  And  what  are  they?  What 
are  those  simple  things  which  the  Lord  has  commanded  us  to  observe, 
having  once  become  members  of  the  Church? 

THE  REDEEMER'S  CODE  OF  LAWS 

Seeing  the  multitude,  Jesus  went  up  into  a  mountain,  and  when 
he  was  seated  his  disciples  came  unto  him; — and  he  preached  the  great- 
est sermon  that  was  ever  preached,  the  greatest  sermon  that  ever  will 
be  preached ;  for  human  tongue  cannot  express  the  same  godlike  senti- 
ments with  the  same  spirit,  and  carry  the  same  influence  with  it,  that 
characterize  the  words  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  So  I  read  from 
them : 

And  he  opened  his  mouth,  and  taught  them,  saying, 
Blessed  are  the  poor  in  spirit,  for  theirs  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 
Blessed  are  they  that  mourn,  for  they  shall  be  comforted. 
Blessed  are  the  meek,  for  they  shall  inherit  the  earth. 
Blessed  are  they  which  do  hunger  and  thirst  after  righteousness;  for 
they  shall  be  filled. 

Blessed  are  the  merciful  for  they  shall  obtain  mercy. 
Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart,  for  they  shall  see  God. 

Blessed  are  the  peacemakers,  for  they  shall  be  called  the  children  of 
God. 

Blessed  are  they  which  are  persecuted  for  righteousness'  sake,  for  theirs 
is  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

A  very  simple  code  of  law,  given  to  his  disciples  by  the  Redeemer. 
So,  reasoning  as  my  mind  prompts  me  to  reason,  I  take  it  for  granted 
that  except  we  do  in  humility  the  things  which  the  Lord  gives  us  to 
do  from  day  to  day,  we  are  not  in  harmony  with  these  words.  I 
take  it  for  granted  that  except  we  are  merciful,  we  do  not  receive 
mercy,  and  are  not  in  harmony  with  the  words  of  Christ  which  I  have 
read.  I  take  it  for  granted  that  except  we  are  pure  in  heart,  we  are 
not  pleasing  our  Father  in  heaven ;  that  if  we  are  not  peacemakers, 
living  at  peace  with  each  other  and  with  the  world,  we  are  not  in  har- 
mony with  this  command  which  he  gave  us. 

Further  he  continues: 

Ye  have  heard  that  it  hath  been  said,  an  eye  for  an  eye  and  a  tooth 
for  a  tooth; 

But  I  say  unto  you,  that  ye  resist  not  evil,  but  whosoever  shall  smite 
thee  on  thy  right  cheek,  turn  to  him  the  other  also. 

And  if  any  man  will  sue  thee  at  the  law,  and  take  away  thy  coat,  let 
him  have  thy  cloak  also. 

And  whosoever  shall  compel  thee  to  go  a  mile,  go  with  him  twain. 
Give  to  him  that  asketh  thee,  and  from  him  that  would  borrow  of  thee 
turn  not  thou  away, 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IV INS 


49 


Ye  have  heard  that  it  hath  been  said,  Thou  shaltiove  thy  neighbor  and 
hate  thine  enemy; 

But  I  say  unto  you,  love  your  enemies,  bless  them  that  curse  you,  do 
good  to  them  that  hate  you,  and  pray  for  them  which  despitefully  use  you 
and  persecute  you. 

DISTINCTION  BETWEEN  FORGIVENESS  OF  SIN  AND  JUSTIFICATION  OF 

WRONG  DOING 

Not  so  easy,  this  latter  admonition,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  which 
carries  with  it  this  doctrine  of  humility,  this  doctrine  of  forgiveness, 
this  doctrine  of  long-suffering'  and  kindness  toward  those  who  may 
appear  to  be  your  enemies,  which  has  been  dwelt  on  during  this  con- 
ference, and  yet  it  is  an  admonition  of  the  Lord. 

Now  what  does  it  really  mean — this  distinction  I  would  like  to 
draw?  if  the  Lord  will  make  it  possible  "for  me  to  do  so,  as  I  under- 
stand this  latter  doctrine.  If  a  man  sues  you  at  the  law  and  you  forgive 
him,  if  when  he  smites  you  upon  the  right  cheek  you  turn  the  other,  if 
when  he  compels  you  to  go  one  mile  with  him  you  go  with  him  twain, 
you  are  justified;  but  the  fact  that  you  extend  forgiveness  and  mercy 
to  him,  does  not  in  any  degree  justify  the  man  who  took  you  without 
cause  to  the  law,  or  who  smote  you  upon  the  cheek,  or  who  took  your 
coat  and  to  whom  you  gave  your  cloak  also.  There  is  a  most  pro- 
nounced and  direct  distinction  between  forgiveness  of  sin  and  justifi- 
cation in  wrong  doing.  The  Lord  has  told  us  that  he  cannot  look  upon 
sin  with  any  degree  of  allowance.  He  has  made  clear  to  us,  beyond 
the  question  of  a  doubt,  that  men  will  be  held  accountable  before  him 
for  the  deeds  done  in  the  body.  While  he  has  taught  us  the  doctrine  of 
humility,  the  doctrine  of  forgiveness,  he  has  always  made  it  clear  that 
mercy  cannot  rob  justice  one  whit,  but  that  the  ends  of  justice  must 
be  satisfied  as  well  as  the  ends  of  mercy. 

THE  EXAMPLE  OF  CORIANTON 

When  his  father  admonished  him  of  his  wrong  doing,  Corianton 
could  not  understand  this  doctrine.  To  him  the  Lord  appeared  to  be 
not  a  God  of  mercy  and  love;  but  just  the  contrary,  because  he  con- 
demned his  wickedness,  the  wrong  which  he  had  done ;  and  then  his 
father,  inspired  by  the  Spirit  oi  the  Lord,  explained  to  him  that  the 
mercy  of  God  is  extended  to  the  penitent  transgressor,  and  to  him  who 
turns  away  from  sin,  to  him  who  repents  from  it  By  this  act  he  pays 
the  penalty,  if  he  is  sincere  and  has  made  amends  for  the  wrong  which 
he  has  done;  and  is  held  guiltless  before  the  Lord.  But  justification 
of  sin  must  never  be  confused  with  mercy  and  forgiveness  which  comies 
to  the  penitent  sinner.  It  was  not  because  the  prodigal  son  had  left 
his  father's  home,  not  because  he  had  dissipated  his  heritage,  not  be- 
cause he  had  lived  a  life  of  riotous  living  and  immorality  until  he  had 
been  reduced  to  a  condition  of  poverty,  that  the  arms  of  his  father 
were  held  out  to  him  in  forgiveness,  but  because  he  returned,  humble 
in  his  spirit;  he  came  back  and  said,  "Father,  I  have  sinned  against 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


heaven  and  before  thee,  and  am  no  more  worthy  to  be  called  thy  son. 
Just  let  me  be  thy  servant,  let  me  go  out  in  the  field  and  work  with 
those  who  labor  for  you,  that  is  all  that  I  am  worthy  of."  It  was  that 
spirit  of  repentance  which  brought  the  gladness  which  was  shown  to 
his  father's  heart  when  he  came  back,  because  the  lost  had  been  found, 
the  dead  lived  again.  And  this,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  the  very 
foundation  of  the  doctrine  of  the  gospel  taught  by  Jesus  Christ.  I 
have  seen  this  doctrine  so  perverted,  so  erroneously  interpreted, 
that  it  has  become  the  most  obnoxious  of  all  the  doctrines  which 
anti-Christ  teaches  in  the  world  today,  the  doctrine  that  the 
mercy  of  Christ,  the  mercy  of  God  as  it  was  manifest  through  Christ, 
redeems  men  from  sin,  regardless  of  their  acts ;  that  just  to  ask  for- 
giveness and  it  is  granted,  and  you  may  go  on  again  in  your  trans- 
gression. It  grew  to  such  a  degree  that,  sin  was  anticipated  and  men 
obtained  indulgences — the  world  knows  it  perfectly  well — for  the  com- 
mission of  sin,  on  the  theory  that  the  Lord  would  forgive  it.  It  is 
wrong;  it  is  a  pernicious  doctrine. 

AN  ILLUSTRATION  FROM  THE  SPEAKER'S  LIFE 

I  had  an  example  of  this  come  into  my  personal  life,  one  which 
I  never  can  forget,  because  the  crisis  was  right  there  with  me  as  to 
whether  I  should  do  my  duty  as  a  man,  as  an  officer  of  the  law,  or 
whether  I  should  yield  to  the  impulse  of  my  nature  to  ignore  the  ob- 
ligation which  I  had  assumed,  in  behalf  of  a  friend,  and  he  was  a  very 
dear  friend  too,  but  he  was  addicted  to  the  use  of  liquor  and  when 
under  its  influence  he  was  a  lawless  Mian.  I  had  been  appointed  a 
peace  officer.  I  had  taken  oath  that  I  would  administer  the  law  as  it 
existed.  Upon  one  occasion  this  friend  of  mine,  in  the  night  time,  in 
his  crazy  drunkenness,  committed  offenses  which  made  it  necessary 
for  me  to  take  him,  and  with  some  severity,  too,  and  drag  him,  as- 
sisted by  another  man,  to  prison,  throw  him  into  an  iron  cell  and  lock 
the  door.  After  I  had  done  it  my  heart  went  out  in  sympathy  to 
him.  I  knew  it  was  not  the  man;  I  knew  it  was  his  inflamed 
brain,  and  that  liquor  was  responsible  for  it.  I  thought  of  his 
mother,  who  was  a  widow.  I  could  not  endure  the  thought  that 
he  should  remain  there  during  the  night  as  an  ordinary  crim- 
inal should  have  done,  and  as  he  should  have  done  had  he 
had  his  deserts,  so  I  plead  for  him  and  obtained  permission  to  release 
him.  I  went  back  to  the  jail,  unlocked  the  door,  and  took  him,  to  his 
home.  He  never  forgave  me  for  that  act.  I  don't  suppose  he  ever 
has  until  today.  He  argued  that  if  I  had  been  his  friend  I  never 
would  have  taken  him  there.  He  argued  that  if  I  had  been  his  friend 
I  would  have  condoned  his  lawlessness.  I  could  not  do  it.  Had  I 
done  so  I  would  have  violated  the  oath  of  office  that  I  had  taken,  and, 
worse  than  that,  would  have  violated  my  conscience ;  for  I  felt  in  my 
conscience  that  the  law  must  be  magnified.  He  was  a  transgressor  of 
it.   He  is  an  influential  man  today.   I  suppose  he  is,  because  he  is  pos- 


ELDER  ANTHONY  IV.  IV INS 


51 


sessed  of  wealth,  and  is  a  banker  in  this  state.  I  do  not  think,  to  this 
day,  that  he  ever  forgave  me ;  but  I  forgave  him — I  forgave  him  the 
wrong  he  had  done;  I  forgave  him  the  violation  of  the  law  of  which 
he  had  been  guilty.  There  was  nothing  but  sympathy  in  my  heart  for 
him,  but  I  knew  that  in  justice  and  in  righteousness  he  must  pay  the 
penalty,  and  he  did  it,  the  following  day  in  the  court. 

FORGIVENESS  COMES  THROUGH  REPENTANCE 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  the  thought  that  I  desire  to 
leave  with  you :  Do  not,  as  the  greatest  church  in  the  world  has 
done,  ever  confuse  this  doctrine  of  God's  mercy  and  forgiveness  which 
comes  to  the  penitent  sinner,  with  the  thought  of  unconditional  for- 
giveness. It  must  come  through  repentance.  We  must  abstain  from 
sin.   We  must  live  humble,  simple  lives,  the  lives  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

THE  WORD  OF  GOD  ON  THE  SUBJECT  FROM  THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON 

I  shall  conclude  my  remarks  with  these  words,  because  they  are 
said  better  than  I  can  say  them.  Thank  the  Lord  for  the  scriptures. 
Thank  the  Lord  for  inspired  men,  for  prophets  in  olden  times,  and 
for  prophets  in  the  day  in  which  we  live.  I  believe  in  God's  word. 
I  have  endeavored  to  live  by  it.  I  cannot  bring  my  conscience  to  be- 
lieve that  I  am  justified  in  deviating  from  it,  whatever  may  be  the 
opinions  of  men : 

And  now  I,  Mormon,  speak  unto  you,  my  beloved  brethren;  and  it  is 
by  the  grace  of  God,  the  Father,  and  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  his  hob- 
will,  because  of  the  gift  of  his  calling  unto  me,  that  I  am  permitted  to 
speak  unto  you  at  this  time. 

Wherefore  I  would  speak  unto  you  that  are  of  the  Church,  that  are 
the  peaceable  followers  of  Christ,  and  that  have  obtained  a  sufficient  hope, 
by  which  ye  can  enter  into  the  rest  of  the  Lord,  from  this  time  henceforth, 
until  ye  shall  rest  with  him  in  heaven. 

And  now,  my  brethren,  I  judge  these  things  of  you  because,  of  your 
peaceable  walk  with  the  children  of  men; 

For  I  remember  the  word  of  God,  which  saith  by  their  works  ye  shall 
know  them;  for  if  their  works  be  good,  then  they  are  good  also. 

$  s)e  $  $  *  % 

Wherefore,  all  things  which  are  good,  cometh  of  God;  and  that  which 
is  evil,  cometh  of  the  devil;  for  the  devil  is  an  enemy  unto  God,  and  fighteth 
against  him  continually,  and  invitetlr  and  enticeth  to  sin,  and  to  do  that 
which  is  evil  continually. 

But  behold,  that  which  is  of  God  inviteth  and  enticeth  to  do  good  con- 
tinually; wherefore  everything  which  inviteth  and  enticeth  to  do  good,  and 
to  love  God,  and  to  serve  him,  is  inspired  of  God. 

Wherefore  take  heed,  my  beloved  brethren,  that  ye  do  not  judge  that 
which  is  evil  to  be  of  God,  or  that  which  is  good  and  of  God,  to  be  of  the 
devil. 

For  behold,  my  brethren,  it  is  given  unto  you  to  judge;  that  ye  may 
know  good  from  evil. 

If  there  is  a  man  or  woman  in  the  Church  of  Christ  who  has  not 
this  gift,  it  is  because  they  are  not  magnifying  their  calling,  for  every 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


person  who  is  confirmed  into  the  Church  has  sealed  upon  him  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost,  for  the  express  purpose  that  he  may  be  able  to  de- 
termine for  himself  that  which  is  right  and  that  which  is  wrong, 
which  is  good  and  which  is  bad. 

For  behold,  my  brethren,  it  is  given  unto  you  to  judge,  that  ye  may 
know  good  from  evil;  and  the  way  to  judge  is  as  plain,  that  ye  may  know 
with  a  perfect  knowledge,  as  the  daylight  is  from  the  dark  night. 

For  behold,  the  Spirit  of  God  is  given  to  every  man,  that  they  may 
know  good  from  evil;  wherefore  I  shew  unto  you  the  way  to  judge;  for 
everything  which  inviteth  to  do  good,  and  to  persuade  to  believe  in  Christ, 
is  sent  forth  by  the  power  and  gift  of  Christ;  wherefore  ye  may  know 
with  a  perfect  knowledge  it  is  of  God. 

But  whatsoever  thing  persuadeth  men  to  do  evil,  and  believe  not  in 
Christ,  and  deny  him,  and  serve  not  God,  then  ye  may  know  with  a  per- 
fect knowledge  it  is  of  the  devil,  for  after  this  manner  doth  the  devil  work, 
for  he  persuadeth  no  man  to  do  good,  no  not  one;  neither  doth  his  angels; 
neither  do  they  who  subject  themselves  unto  him. 

And  now,  my  beloved  brethren,  if  this  be  the  case,  that  these  things 
are  true  which  I  have  spoken  unto  you,  and  God  will  shew  unto  you  with 
power  and  great  glory  at  the  last  day  that  they  are  true;  and  if  they  are 
true,  has  the  day  of  miracles  ceased? 

Or  have  angels  ceased  to  appear  unto  the  children  of  men? — or  has 
he  withheld  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  from  them?  or  will  he,  so  long 
as  time  shall  last,  or  the  earth  shall  stand,  or  there  shall  be  one  man  upon 
the  face  thereof  to  be  saved? 

Behold  I  say  unto  you,  Nay;  for  it  is  by  faith  that  miracles  are  wrought; 
and  it  is  by  faith  that  angels  appear  and  minister  unto  men;  wherefore  if 
these  things  have  ceased,  woe  be  unto  the  children  of  men,  for  it  is  because 
of  unblief,  and  all  is  vain. 

*  *  *  *  * 

Woe  be  unto  him  that  shall  pervert  the  ways  of  the  Lord  after  this 
manner,  for  they  shall  perish,  except  they  repent.  Behold,  I  speak  with 
boldness,  having  authority  from,  God;  and  I  fear  not  what  man  can  do, 
for  perfect  love  casteth  out  all  fear; 

And  I  am  filled  with  charity,  which  is  everlasting  love. 

Wherefore,  if  a  man  have  faith,  he  must  needs  have  hope;  for  without 
faith  there  cannot  be  any  hope. 

And  again  I  say  unto  you,  that  he  cannot  have  faith  and  hope,  save 
he  shall  be  meek  and  lowly  of  heart; 

If  so,  his  faith  and  hope  is  vain,  for  none  is  acceptable  before  God, 
save  the  meek  and  lowly  in  heart,  and  if  a  man  be  meek  and  lowly  in 
heart,  and  confesses  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  he  must  needs  have  charity;  for  if  he  have  not  charity  he  is  noth- 
ing; wherefore  he  must  needs  have  charity. 

And  charity  suffereth  long,  and  is  kind,  and  envieth  not,  and  is  not 
puffed  up,  seeketh  not  her  own,  is  not  easily  provoked,  thinketh  no  evil, 
and  rejoiceth  in  the  truth,  beareth  all  things,  believeth  all  things  hopeth 
all  things,  endureth  all  things. 

An  exemplification  of  this  doctrine  of  charity,  corresponds  with 
that  which  was  given  to  us  by  the  President  of  the  Church,  going 
beyond  the  giving  of  alms,  into  every  walk  of  life  and  every  act  of 
ours. 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IV INS 


53 


Wherefore,  my  beloved  brethren,  if  ye  have  not  charity,  ye  are  nothing, 
for  charity  never  faileth.  Wherefore,  cleave  unto  charity,  which  is  the 
greatest  of  all,  for  all  things  must  fail; 

But  charity  is  the  pure  love  of  Christ,  and  it  endureth  forever;  and 
whoso  is  found  possessed  of  it  at  the  last  day,  it  shall  be  well  with  them. 

Wherefore,  my  beloved  brethren, — and  my  beloved  sisters,  I  will  add — 

Pray  unto  the  Father  with  all  the  energy  of  heart,  that  ye  may  be  filled 
with  this  love,  which  he  hath  bestowed  upon  all  who  are  true  followers  of 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  that  ye  may  become  the  sons  of  God,  that  when  he 
shall  appear,  we  shall  be  like  him.;  for  we  shall  see  him  as  he  is,  that  we  may 
have  this  hope,  that  we  may  be  purified,  even  as.  he  is  pure.  Amen. 

A  number  of  notices  pertaining  to  special  meetings  were  given  and 
the  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of 
salvation." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  William  H.  Smart,  Pres- 
ident of  the  Roosevelt  Stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

The  conference  was  called  to  order  at  2  o'clock  by  President  He- 
ber  J.  Grant,  who  presided. 

Choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Orvil  L.  Thompson,  President  of 
the  Millard  Stake  of  Zion. 

Choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Come  let  us  anew,  our  journey 
persue." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

"If  ye  love  me,  keep  my  commandments." 

These  words  were  addressed  by  the  Master  to  his  disciples  but  a 
few  hours  before  his  death,  as  he  had  assembled  with  them  to  eat  the 
passover,  and  give  them  the  final  instruction  before  he  should  suffer 
for  the  sins  of  the  world.  On  that  same  occasion,  and  shortly  before 
these  remarks  were  made,  he  referred  to  the  same  subject,  when  he 
said : 

Little  children,  yet  a  little  while  I  am  with  you.  Ye  shall  seek 
me;  and  as  I  said  unto  the  Jews,  Whither  I  go  ye  can  not  come;  so  now 
I  say  to  you.  A  new  commandment  I  give  unto  you,  That  ye  love  one 
another;  as  I  have  loved  you,  that  ye  also  love  one  another. 

I  believe  that  I  can  do  no  better  than  to  read  other  instructions 
that  were  given  by  our  Lord  and  by  his  disciples,  in  regard  to  the 
same  subject,  because  they  have  said  it  so  much  better  than  I  could 
say  it,  and  I  firmly  and  faithfully  believe  all  that  is  written.  In  this 
same  discourse  the  Lord  continued  saying: 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


He  that  hath  my  commandments,  and  keepeth  them,  he  it  is  that  loveth 
me:  and  he  that  loveth  me  shall  be  loved  of  my  Father,  and  I  will  love  him, 
and  will  manifest  myself  to  him. 

Judas  said  unto  him,  (not  Iscariot)  Lord,  how  is  it  that  thou  wilt 
manifest  thyself  unto  us,  and  not  unto  the  world? 

Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  him,  If  a  man  love  me,  he  will  keep -my 
words:  and  my  Father  will  love  him,  and  we  will  come  unto  him,  and  make 
our  abode  with  him. 

He  that  loveth  me  not,  keepeth  not  my  sayings:  and  the  word  which 
ye  hear  is  not  mine,  but  the  Father's  which  sent  me. 


WE  ARE  HERE  FOR  THE  TRUTH  WHICH  MAKES  US  FREE  . 

I  look  over  this  congregation  and  I  see  before  me  men  and 
women  who  have  been  gathered  from  all  parts  of  the  earth,  or  whose 
parents  before  them  have  been  gathered  out,  by  the  preaching  of  the 
gospel.  We  have  come  to  these  valeys  of  the  mountains,  and  our  fath- 
ers before  us,  that  we  might  be  established  in  the  truth  which  makes 
men  free.  Because  here  an  ensign  has  been  raised  to  the  nations 
and  the  declaration  has  gone  forth  that  in  Zion  may  be  found  the 
word  of  the  Lord,  and  so  we  came  with  the  hope  and  desire  of  keep 
ing  his  commandments,  making  covenants,  'taking  up"on  ourselves 
obligations  that  would  bring  us  eternal  life.  It  would  be  a  shame, 
after  we  have  been  gathered  out  in  this  manner,  according  to  the  pre- 
dictions of  the  prophets  of  old,  if  now,  because  of  prosperity,  or 
for  any  other  cause,  we  should  let  the  adversary  find  a  place  in  our 
hearts  to  destroy  the  truth  and  the  love  we  should  have,  one  for  an- 
other; for  we  are  indeed  the  disciples  of  the  Lord.  If  we  love  him 
we  will  keep  his  commandments.  No  question  about  that.  And 
should  there  be  in  Zion  any  who  offend  or  who  fail  to  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord,  then  it  is  evidence  sufficient  that  they  do 
not  love  him.  I  cannot  have  hatred  in  my  heart  for  my  fellow  men, 
whether  they  be  in  the  Church  or  out  of  it,  if  I  abide  in  the  com- 
mandment of  the  Lord.  I  must  obey  them,  and  I  show  by  my  works 
that  I  love  the  Lord  my  God  with  all  my  heart,  with  all  my  might, 
mind,  and  strength ;  and  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  I  serve  him  and 
love  my  neighbor  as  myself.  This  is  the  word  of  the  Lord  as  it  has 
been  revealed  in  these  modern  times  for  the  guidance  of  Israel.  There- 
fore, I  should  have  in  my  heart  a  feeling  of  love  for  my  fellowmen, 
and  especially  for  those  who  have  made  covenant  with  the  Lord  to 
observe  his  laws  and  walk  before  him  in  righteousness.  What  right 
have  I  to  complain,  or  find  fault,  or  endeavor  to  destroy  the  useful- 
ness of  my  brother?  It  matters  not  what  the  occasion  may  be,  why 
should  I  engender  feelings  in  my  heart  of  enmity  for  one  that  I  am 
called  upon  and  commanded  by  the  Lord  to  treat  as  a  brother?  We 
are  not  merely  friends;  we  are  brothers  and  sisters,  the  children  of 
God,  who  have  come  out,  as  I  have  said,  from  the  world  to  enter  in- 
to covenants,  to  observe  his  laws  and  to  abide  by  all  things  which 
are  given  us  by  inspiration.  We  are  commanded  to  love  one 
another.    "A  new  commandment,"  the  Lord  has  said,  and  yet  like 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  55 


many  other  commandments  it  is  as  old  as  eternity.  There  never  was 
a  time  when  that  commandment  did  not  exist  and  was  not  essential 
to  salvation,  and  yet  it  is  always  new.  It  never  grows  old,  because 
it  is  true. 

THE  NEW  AND  EVERLASTING  COVENANT 

I  am  reminded  of  an  expression  that  occurs  in  one  of  the  early 
revelations  (section  22)  shortly  after  the  organization  of  the  Church, 
when  the  Lord  said  that  he  had  given  unto  the  Church  "a  new  and 
everlasting  covenant,  even  that  which  was  from  the  beginning."  Those 
words  are  very  significant.  It  was  a  new  and  everlasting  covenant, 
and  yet  it  had  always  existed,  for  it  was  from  the  beginning,  and  so 
this  new  commandment  that  we  should  love  one  another  has  always 
been.  The  truth  does  not  grow  old.  Some  people,  you  know,  are  ex- 
tremely progressive.  They  want  a  change  in  this  and  a  change  in 
that,  and  a  change  in  the  other  thing,  but  the  principles  of  the  gospel 
never  change.  The  principle  of  love  is  the  same  today  that  it  was 
yesterday  and  will  endure  the  same  tomorrow,  If  I  am  not  in  har- 
mony with  that  principle,  which  is  a  principle  of  eternal  truth,  then 
I  am  under  condemnation  before  the  Lord  and  have  no  fellowship  with 
him. 

FURTHER  QUOTATIONS  AND  ILLUSTRATIONS  ON  THE  POWER  OF  LOVE 

There  are  some  other  expressions  of  this  nature  that  I  desire 
to  read,  as  I  say,  because  they  are  stated  so  much  better  than  I 
would  be  able  to  express  them.  John,  known  as  the  revelator,  and 
the  beloved  disciple  of  the  Lord,  has  borne  witness  likewise  to  this 
commandment.  There  is  no  wonder  that  the  Lord  loved  him.  He  is 
spoken  of,  you  know,  in  the  scriptures,  as  the  disciple  whom  the  Lord 
loved.  Why  did  the  Master  love  him  ?  Because  he  loved  the  Master ; 
because  he  loved  his  fellowmen.  Now  I  do  not  mean  to  say  that 
the  other  disciples  did  not  love  the  Lord,  and  that  they  had  anything 
in  their  hearts  but  love  for  one  another,  but  John  stands  out  among 
them  in  this  regard  as  one  who  had  this  gift  in  larger  measure,  per- 
haps, than  did  some  of  his  fellows.  Let  me  read  to  you  one  or  two 
things  that  he  has  written.  In  his  First  Epistle,  3rd  chapter  and 
14th  verse,  I  read  this: 

We  know  that  we  have  passed  from  death  unto  life,  because  we  love 
the  brethren.    He  that  loveth  not  his  brother  abideth  in  death. 

I  can  not  afford,  therefore,  to  have  enmity  in  my  heart,  to  speak 
disparagingly  of  one  of  my  brethren  or  of  one  of  my  sisters,  because 
that  is  death  to  me.    Now  the  next  verse  says : 

Whosoever  hateth  his  brother  is  a  murderer;  and  ye  know  that  no 
murderer  hath  eternal  life  abiding  in  him. 

I  do  not  know  that  I  would  dare  say  a  thing  like  that  of  myself, 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  yet  it  is  true.  That  is  to  say,  a  man  who  has  hatred  in  his  heart 
for  one  of  his  brethren,  not  only  for  his  own  flesh  and  blood,  but 
also  for  a  brother  in  the  covenant  of  the  gospel,  has  the  same  spirit 
which  exists  in  the  heart  of  one  who  has  murder  in  his  heart.  It  is 
a  murderous  spirit  and  there  is  no  eternal  life  for  such  a  man. 

"Beloved,  if  God  so  loved  us,"  John  has  said,  "We  ought  also 
to  love  one  another." 

Again : 

Herein  is  our  love  made  perfect,  that  we  may  have  boldness  in  the  day 
of  judgment:  because  as  he  is,  so  are  we  in  this  world. 

There  is  no  fear  in  love;  but  perfect  love  casteth  out  fear;  because 
fear  hath  torment.    He  that  feareth  is  not  miade  perfect  in  love. 

We  love  him,  because  he  first  loved  us. 

If  a  man  say,  I  love  God,  and  hateth  his  brother,  he  is  a  liar:  for  he 
that  loveth  not  his  brother  whom  he  hath  seen,  how  can  he  love  God  whom 
he  hath  not  seen? 

And  this  coirumflndment  have  we  from  him,  That  he  who  loveth  God 
love  his  brother  also. 

IN  HARMONY  WITH  THE}  KEYNOTE  OF  THE  CONFERENCE 

These  words  which  I  have  read  are  in  harmony  with  the  kev 
note  of  this  conference.  I  endorse  the  remarks  that  have  been  made 
here  by  all  the  brethren.  I  rejoice  that  there  is  harmony  and  love 
in  the  hearts  of  the  presidency,  one  for  another,  and  the  members  of 
the  council  of  the  Twelve.  We  are  not  divided.  We  do  not  see  dif- 
ferently, but  we  accept  the  same  thing,  and  in  the  love  of  God  have 
but  one  desire  in  our  hearts  and  that  is  to  serve  him  and  keep  his 
commandments . 

Now,  I  want  to  say  a  few  words  in  regard  to  this  phase  of  the 
subject,  and  I  will  repeat  one  of  these  verses:  "He  that  loveth  me  not, 
keepeth  not  my  sayings ;  and  the  word  which  ye  hear  is  not  mine,  but 
the  Father's  which  sent  me,"  and  the  preceding  verse : 

ON  KEEPING  THE  COMMANDMENTS 

"Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  him,  If  a  man  love  me  he  will 
keep  my  words:  and  my  Father  will  love  him,  and  we  will  come  unto 
him  and  make  our  abode  with  him."  Now,  do  we  fully  understand 
just  what  that  means?  The  great  promise  that  is  made  to  the  mem- 
bers of  this  Church  who  are  willing  to  abide  by  the  law  and  keep  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord  is  that  they  shall  not  only  receive  a  place 
in  the  kingdom  of  God,  but  that  they  shall  have  the  presence  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son ;  and  that  is  not  all,  for  the  Lord  has  promised 
that  all  that  he  hath  shall  be  given  unto  them.  In  section  84  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  this  truth  is  very  clearly  set  forth,  and  not- 
withstanding the  fact  that  I  may  weary  you,  I  shall  read  one  or  more 
verses : 

For  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the  obtaining  these  two  priesthoods  of 
which  I  have  spoken,  and  the  magnifying  their  calling,  are  sanctified  by 
the  Spirit  unto  the  renewing  of  their  bodies; 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


57 


They  become  the  sons  of  Moses  and  of  Aaron  and  the  seed  of  Abra- 
ham, and  the  church  and  kingdom,  and  the  elect  of  God. 

Now,  I  am  not  going  to  take  time  to  explain  all  "of  that  which 
I  have  read,  but  I  want  to  read  a  little  more  and  give  some  explana- 
tion: 

And  also  all  they  who  receive  this  priesthood  receiveth  rne,  saith  the 
Lord; 

For  he  that  receiveth  my  servants  receiveth  me; 
And  he  that  receiveth  me  leceiveth  my  Father; 

And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father,  receiveth  my  Father's  kingdom;  there- 
fore all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be  given  unto  him; 

And  this  is  according  to  the  oath  and  covenant  which  belongeth  to  the 
priesthood. 

That  is  in  harmony  with  this  expression  which  I  have  read  here 
from  John's  gospel,  that  if  we  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord — 
and  I  apply  this  to  us,  although  he  declared  it  unto  his  disciples  then, 
it  is  just  as  true  today — if  we  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord, 
then  we  shall  have  both  the  Father  and  the  Son  and  we  shall  dwell 
in  their  presence,  we  shall  receive  his  kingdom  as  the  elect  and  shall 
be  heirs  of  God,  joint  heirs  with  our  elder  Brother  in  receiving  the 
fulness  of  the  kingdom,  for  all  things  are  ours.  O  how  wonderful, 
how  great  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  to 
all  who  are  willing  to  go  through  the  waters  of  baptism  and  abide 
by  the  law  and  keep  the^commandments  of  the  Lord! 

THE  WHOLE  DUTY  OF  MAN  IS  TO  KEEP  THE  COMMANDMENTS 

A  more  timely  thing  could  not  be  said  than  that  which  was  uttered 
here  as  the  keynote  of  this  conference  that  we  as  Latter-day  Saints 
should  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  That  is  the  whole  duty 
of  man.  I  have  no  right  to  do  anything  else.  You  have  no  right 
to  do  anything  else.  We  have  the  privilege,  but  because  we  are  ser- 
vants, who  have  gone  through  the  waters  of  baptism  and  taken  upon 
ourselves  obligations,  there  is  nothing  else  that  we  should  do.  Woe 
unto  the  man  who  has  made  covenant  with  the  Lord  in  the  waters 
of  baptism  and  in  the  temple  of  the  Lord  to  keep  his  laws  and  his 
commandments  and  then  violates  them! 

There  is  another  passage  of  scripture  here  in  explanation  of  one 
of  the  parables.  You  know  the  Savior  spoke  of  the  parable  of  the, 
wheat  and  the  tares.  It  is  not  necessary  for  me  to  read  it  because 
you  are  familiar  with  it.  But  I  want  to  read  one  verse  of  the  inter- 
pretation.  The  Lord  said: 

The  field  is  the  world;  The  good  seed  are  the  children  of  the  kingdom, 
but  the  tares  are  the  children  of  the  wicked  one. 

The  enemy  that  sowed  them  is  the  devil;  The  harvest  is  the  end  of  the 
world;  and  the  reapers  are  the  angels. 

As  therefore  the  tares  are  gathered  and  burned  in  the  fire;  so  shall  it 
be  in  the  end  of  this  world. 

The  Son  of  man  shall  send  forth  his  angels  and  they  shall  gather  out 
of  the  kingdom  all  things  that  offend  and  them  which  do  iniquity. 


58 


GENERAL .  CONFERENCE. 


Now,  he  is  not  speaking  of  the  world  in  that  passage  of  scripture. 
He  is  speaking  of  Israel.  If  I  have  enmity  in  my  heart,  or  hatred, 
then  I  offend.  If  I  do  not  have  a  love  for  the  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel then  I  am  an  offense  before  the  Lord.  If  I  am  not  willing  to 
live  up  to  every  word  that  proceedeth  from  the  mouth  of  God,  but 
make  exception  in  my  case,  because,  perhaps,  I  think  I  may  hav 
weaknesses  and  may  be  different  from  other  men,  then  I  offend  and 
am  in  danger.  If  we  are  not  in  harmony  with  the  Church  and  King- 
dom of  God  in  all  things,  and  faithful  in  keeping  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord,  the  time  may  come  when  we  shall  be  removed,  for  the 
angels  of  heaven  will  take  a  hand  and  all  that  give  offense,  all  things 
that  are  impure,  unholy,  and  stand  in  the  way  of  progress  and  ad- 
vancement and  the  establishment  of  truth  in  the  hearts  of  the  people 
shall  be  removed. 

I  never  did  learn  to  deliver  a  discourse  without  referring  to  the 
scriptures  so  you  will  have  to  pardon  me.  I  will  read  one  more  pas- 
sage and  this  I  expect  will  be  the  last  that  I  will  read.  In  the  preface 
to  the  Lord's  revelations  he  said  this: 

And  the  arm  of  the  Lord  shall  be  revealed;  and  the  day  cometh  that 
they  who  will  not  hear  the  voice  of  the  Lord;  neither  the  voice  of  his 
servants,  neither  give  heed  to  the  words  of  the  prophets  and  apostles,  shall 
be  cut  off  from  among  the  people.  ■ 

How  are  they  to  be  cut  off?  By  being  gathered  out  as  the  Lord 
declared  in  his  explantion  of  the  parable  of  the  wheat  and  tares,  when 
the  angels  shall  go  forth  and  cleanse  and  remove  from  Israel  and 
the  kingdom  of  God  all  things  that  offend.  We  have  been  com- 
manded to  stand  in  holy  places.  We  can  not  stand  in  a  holy  place, 
even  though  it  be  in  the  temple  of  the  Lord,  if  our  thoughts,  our 
desires,  and  our  feelings,  are  impure,  because  we  would  desecrate  the 
house  of  the  Lord,  and  to  stand  in  holy  places  we  must  be  in  harmony 
with  the  truth  and  observe  and  keep  all  of  the  commandments  that 
have  been  given  unto  us. 

GREATER  COM  PREHENSION  OF  THE  GOSPEL  MUCH  NEEDED  AMONG 
THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

I  was  in  one  of  our  northern  stakes  not  long  ago.  I  made  the 
remark  there  that  I  thought  the  thing  that  was  needed  as  much  as 
anything  else  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  was  a  better  understand- 
ing or  comprehension  of  the  gospel.  And  after  I  sat  down  we  called 
upon  one  of  the  bishops  and  he  got  up  and  endorsed  what  I  had  said 
and  put  it  to  a  vote  of  the  people  and  it  was  adopted  in  that  stake  of 
Zion  as  a  slogan,  that  we  stand  for  a  better  comprehension  of  the  gos- 
pel through  study  and  by  faith.  I  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
you  cannot  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  and  walk  in  right- 
eousness unless  you  know  what  they  are.  The  Lord  has  commanded 
us  to  search  the  scriptures,  for  the  things  which  they  contain  are  true 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  59 


• 

and  shall  be  fulfilled,  and  so  I  say  to  you,  and  this  is  my  closing  mes- 
sage :  Search  the  scriptures ;  make  yourselves  familiar  with  that  which 
the  Lord  has  revealed  for  your  salvation,  the  salvation  of  your  house, 
and  of  the  world.  Do  not  procrastinate  the  day  of  repentance.  Let 
us  walk  humbly,  righteously,  diligently  before  the  Lord  and  let,  above 
-all  things,  this  spirit  of  love  dwell  in  our  hearts  for  all  men  and  more 
especially  for  our  brethren.  If  we  see  them  going  wrong,  if  we  see 
them  doing  that  which  they  ought  not  do,  there  is  a  proper  way  to 
correct  them.  The  Lord  has  pointed  out  the  way  and  we  can  make 
the  matter  right  nearly  every  time  and  if  we  can  not  make  it  right 
with  the  offending  brother  there  is  a  procedure  which  we  may  take 
to  make  it  right,  and  I  have  no  right  to  backbite,  to  faukfind,  to  con- 
demn before  others  one  of  my  brethren  unheard,  whether  he  be  high 
or  lowly.  The  Lord  has  pointed  out  the  procedure  in  all  of  there 
matters  for  our  guidance. 

Let  us  love  the  Lord  for  this  is  the  foundation  of  all  things.  It 
is  the  first  commandment,  and  the  second  commandment,  to  love  our 
neighbors  as  ourselves,  is  like  unto  it,  and  when  we  have  done  that  we 
have  fulfilled  the  law,  because  there  is  nothing  that  will  be  left  un- 
done. The  Lord  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  stand  to- 
gether united  in  the  service  of  the  Lord,  I  pray  in  his  name.  Amen. 

A  solo  entitled,  "The  way  of  life,"  was  rendered  by  Ellen  Open- 
ing. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

I  am  very  thankful  to  find  that  I  am  in  harmony  with  what  has 
been  said  in  this  conference  in  the  addresses  of  the  brethren,  from  that 
of  the  president  of  the  Church  and  the  prophet  of  the  Lord  at  the  open- 
ing session,  to  the  last  Amen  by  the  speaker  who  has  just  closed.  A 
variety  of  topics  have  been  touched  upon,  and  I  have  felt  to  regret  in 
a  way  that  the  time  limitations  did_not  permit  several  of  the  speakers 
to  go  on  as  I  could  see  from  the  trend  of  their  remarks  they  would 
have  done,  had  they  had  time — to  a  fuller  elucidation  of  the  very 
splendid  principles  they  have  presented. 

LOOKING  AT  THINGS  FROM  DIFFERENT  ANGLES 

We  have  been  able  to  look  at  things  from  different  angles  by 
following  the  remarks  of  the  several  brethren,  and  all  harmonize.  I 
believe  that  the  remarks  are  peculiarly  timely.  Not  that  I  feel  that 
there  is  any  great  danger  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  going  astray  as  a 
body — for  I  have  faith  in  them,  and  I  know  that  they  are  the  Lord's 
people — but  because  there  are  at  this  time  conditions  before  the  people 
upon  which  divergent  views  are  held;  and,  consequently,  not  all  see 
things  from  the  same  angle,  and  therefore  do  not  have  precisely  the 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


same  image  formed  upon  the  retina  of  their  spiritual  and  physical 
eyes. 

Very  much  depends,  you  know,  upon  our  point  of  view.  There 
are  men  who  would  not  recognize  a  photograph  of  their  own  home  if 
it  were  taken  from  the  rear,  for  they  have  been  in  the  habit  of  looking 
at  it  only  from  the  front ;  and  such  a  one  would  probably  say :  "That  is 
not  mine;  that  is  not  the  way  I  would  build  a  house;  it  is  all  wrong." 

THE  LORD  CAN  NOT  LOOK  UPON  SIN  WITH  ALLOWANCE 

I  was  impressed  by  the  brief  and  passing  remark  made  by  Brother 
Ivins,  this  morning,  in  which  he  incorporated  one  of  the  most  profound 
epigrams  in  scripture,  in  which  the  Lord  repeated  words  that  he  had 
before  given  through  the  mouth  of  his  ancient  prophet  Alma.  They 
appear  in  the  45th  chapter,  16th  verse,  as  Alma's  words  spoken  under 
inspiration.  In  the  first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  31st 
paragraph,  they  appear  as  the  direct  words  of  the  Lord : 

"For  I  the  Lord  cannot  look  upon  sin  with  the  least  degree  of  allow- 
ance." 

I  read  further: 

"Nevertheless,  he  that  repents  and  does  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord  shall  be  forgiven; 

"And  he  that  repents  not,  from  him  shall  be  taken  even  the  light  which 
he  has  received,  for  my  Spirit  shall  not  always  strive  with  man,  saith  the 
Lord  of  Hosts. 

"And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  O  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  I  the 
Lord  am  willing  to  make  these  things  known  unto  all  flesh, 

"For  I  am  no  respecter  of  persons,  and  will  that  all  men  shall  know 
that  the  day  speedily  cometh;  the  hour  is  not  yet,  but  is  nigh  at  hand,  when 
peace  shall  be  taken  from  the  earth,  and  the  devil  shall  have  power  over 
his  own  dominion; 

"And  also  the  Lord  shall  have  power  over  his  saints,  and  shall  reign 
in  their  midst,  and  shall  come  down  in  judgment  upon  Idumea,  or  the 
world. 

"Search  these  commandments  for  they  are  true  and  faithful,  and  the 
prophecies  and  promises  which  are  in  them  shall  all  be  fulfilled. 

"What  I  the  Lord  have  spoken,  T  have  spoken,  and  I  excuse  not  myself: 
and  though  the  heavens  and  the  earth  pass  away,  my  word  shall  not  pass 
away,  but  shall  all  be  fulfilled,  whether  by  mine  own  voice  or  by  the  voice 
of  my  servants,  it  is  the  same; 

"For  behold,  and  lo,  the  Lord  is  God,  and  the  Spirit  beareth  record, 
and  the  record  is  true,  and  the  truth  abideth  forever  and  ever.  Amen." 

This  is  no  ancient  scripture  only.  The  principles  involved  were 
proclaimed  early  in  the  history  of  the  race ;  and  they  have  been  given 
anew  to  you,  to  me  personally,  to  the  people  who  are  living  in  this  dis- 
pensation, in  this  year  of  our  Lord. 

"I  the  Lord  cannot  look  upon  sin  with  the  least  degree  of  allow- 
ance." I  say  that  epigram  is  startling.  It  has  attracted  the  attention 
of  theologians ;  it  has  led  them  to  profound  reflection ;  it  has  enlight- 
ened their  minds.  In  the  scripture  that  I  have  read  to  you  the  Lord 
draws  a  yery  clear  distinction  between  sin  and  the  sinner.    The  dis- 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMIAGE 


61 


tinction  is  real  and  vital.  Some  may  say:  Can  there  be  sin  without  a 
sinner  ?  Can  there  be  theft  without  a  thief?  Can  there  be  falsehood 
without  a  falsifier?  Can  there  be  murder  without  a  slayer?  I  take 
the  liberty  of  reading  to  you  a  few  lines  of  my  own,  with  scripture  in- 
corporated, as  already  published: 

Admittedly,  sins  may  be  planned  but  not  executed,  thought  out, 
though  not  carried  to  the  extent  of  actual  commission,  as  is  connoted 
by  the  Lord's  words  respecting  adultery:  "Ye  have  heard  that  it  w 
said  by  them  of  old,  Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery :  But  I  say  unto 
you,  That  whosoever  looketh  on  a  woman  to  lust  after  her  hath  com- 
mitted adultery  with  her  already  in  his  heart."  (Matt.  5  :27-28). 

Men  may  be  potential  liars,  robbers  or  murderers,  but,  lacking  op- 
portunity to  become  criminals  in  fact,  or  restraining  their  evil  impulses 
through  considerations  of  policy  or  personal  advantage,  they  may  main- 
tain outward  signs  of  probity.  The  wearing  of  a  sheep's  fleece  by  a 
ravening  wolf  is  no  modern  camouflage. 

But  in  all  such  dissemblings,  the  fact  of  wicked  purpose  exists ;  and 
the  evil  purpose,  thought,  or  desire,  is  of  itself  essentially  sin ;  and  such 
a  case,  therefore,  presents  no  phenomenon  of  abstract  guilt,  but  actual 
and  individual  offense;  for  the  thinker  of  evil  is  a  sinner. 

Who  of  us  can  regard  tuberculosis,  smallpox,  or  the  insidious  and 
deadly  influenza  that  has  swept  the  earth,  with  other  feelings  than 
repugnance  and  fear?  Yet  we  treat  the  afflicted  person  with  effort 
to  bring  about  his  recovery ;  and  if  we  loved  him  while  well,  we  do 
not  hate  him  because  he  has  become  ill ;  but,  to  the  contrary,  we  be- 
come the  more  solicitous  in  his  behalf.  Health  officers  and  the  medi- 
cal fraternity  look  not  upon  disease  with  compromise,  toleration  or  al- 
lowance. They  are  the  marshalled  assailants  of  physical  malady,  what- 
ever its  disguise ;  and  their  best  means  of  waging  war  on  disease  is  that 
of  ministering  to  each  afflicted  one,  while  taking  all  measures  possible 
to  protect  the  well  against  infection. 

The  germs  of  disease  exist,  whether  they  find  lodgment  in  human 
bodies  or  not;  and,  by  analogy,  we  may  say  that  the  spirit  of  or  in- 
centive to  thievery,  adultery,  or  murder,  is  alive,  as  the  definite  con- 
tagion of  evil,  though  men  may  or  may  not  be  actually  overcome  there- 
by. Now,  in  the  case  of  physical  affliction,  definite  treatment  is  in- 
voked ;  and  compliance  with  prescribed  conditions  is  enforced  so 
far  as  the  patient  will  submit. 

In  fine  and  purposeful  irony,  the  Divine  Healer  met  the  casuistry 
of  certain  self-righteous  scribes  and  Pharisees  with  the  declaration : 
"They  that  are  whole  have  no  need  of  the  physician,  but  they  that  are 
sick:  I  came  not  to  call  the  righteous,  but  sinners  to  repentance."  (Mark 
2:17.) 

THE  LORD,  HOWEVER,  IS  MERCIFUL  TO  THE  SINNER 

But  as  the  scriptures  abundantly  affirm,  and  as  experience  demon- 
strates, there  are  none  of  us  entirely  free  from  sin;  to  the  contrary, 
every  one  is  in  need  of  the  Great  Physician's  healing  ministrations.  "Sin 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


is  the  transgression  of  the  law"  (I  John  3:4) ;  furthermore:  "There  is 
none  righteous,  no,  not  one"  (Rom.  3 :10) ;  and  again  "If  we  say  that 
we  have  no  sin,  we  deceive  ourselves,  and  the  truth  is  not  in  us."  (I 
John  1:8). 

I  learn  from  the  scriptures  that  the  Lord  hates  sin  in  every  one 
of  its  multifarious  manifestations,  but  he  is  kind  and  merciful  and 
long-suffering  toward  the  sinner.  It  is  true  that  disease  may  come 
upon  us  through  our  own  neglect,  or  our  own  actual  commission  of 
overt  acts.  It  may  come  upon  us  even  against  the  best  we  can  do. 
The  diseases  I  have  named,  most  of  them,  and  diphtheria,  and  others, 
are  classed  by  physicians  as  filth  disease,  because  the  germs  that  pro- 
duce them  breed  in  uncleanness ;  but  even  the  cleanest  of  men,  even  the 
man  who  has  lived  according  to  the  laws  of  health,  may  come  down 
under  the  stroke  of  one  of  those  dread  maladies;  and  though  I  hate 
diphtheria,  I  may  love  with  a  yearning  that  leads  me  to  fasting  and 
prayer,  the  one  who  is  stricken.  Let  us  segregate  the  ideas  even  as 
the  Lord  hath  done. 

A  MEANS  OF  TREATMENT  FOR  THOSE  WHO  SIN 

Now  the  Lord  has  provided  a  means  of  treatment  for  those  who 
are  spiritually  afflicted,  even  as  means  are  provided  for  those  who  are 
physically  ill,  and  by  compliance  with  his  laws  of  spiritual  health  we 
may,  perchance,  be  healed,  however  ill  we  may  have  become.  But 
we  should  not  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that  the  Lord  has  no  compromise 
with  sin.  He  has  provided  that  if  any  man  in  this  Church  shall  offend, 
he  shall  be  dealt  with  as  a  man  who  is  afflicted  with  smallpox 
must  be  dealt  with,  with  the  hope  of  saving  him.  The  purpose  of  the 
Church  is  to  heal,  not  to  spread  disease ;  to  build  up,  not  to  tear  down ; 
to  save,  not  to  destroy,  but  that  does  not  mean  that  we  are  to  look  upon 
sin  in  our  midst  in  any  namby-pamby  way  and  pass  it  by. 

The  Lord  hath  declared  that  there  must  not  be  iniquity  in  his 
Church,  and  he  has  provided  officers  whose  specific  and  specified  duty 
it  is  to  hunt  out  iniquity,  to  run  it  down,  so  that  every  case  may  be  dealt 
with,  and  the  afflicted  Ones  perchance,  be  saved.  He  has  not  told  us 
to  cover  up  sin  in  the  Church.  That  is  not  the  Lord's  will,  nor  purpose 
nor  plan.  He  has  told  us  that  we  should  avoid  gossip  and  slander  and 
all  kinds  of  misrepresentation,  and  speaking  ill  against  our  brethren, 
whether  we  regard  them  in  their  official  capacity  as  officers  of  the 
Church,  general  or  local,  or  otherwise.  I  have  no  right  to  speak  in 
condemnation  of  my  brother,  unless  I  do  it  in  an  official  capacity,  in 
the  exercise  of  the  authority  of  the  Holy  Priesthood,  and  then  I  should 
do  it  in  love  and  with  yearning  for  him. 

SIN  SHOULD  BE  EXPOSED 

You  have  raised  your  hands  in  this  great  building  many  times, 
sustaining  me  in  the  position  to  which  I  have  been  called.  I  make  my- 
self the  subject  of  the  illustration.    Perchance  you  will  have  an  op- 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMIAGE 


63 


portunity  to  do  that  again,  or  to  vote  against  me.  But  does  that  mean 
that  because  you  vote  and  sustain  me  in  my  position  that  I  am  exempt 
from  judgment  if  I  do  wrong?  By  no  means.  But  there  is  a  way  in 
which  your  complaints,  if  you  are  in  any  way  justified  in  making  such, 
may  be  given  consideration.  If  any  one  of  you  feel  that  you  can  not 
sustain  me  in  my  position,  because  of  anything  you  know  of  me  as  being 
wrong,  I  pray  you,  come  to  me,  come  to  me.  I  will  give  you  a  hear- 
ing; I  will  listen  to  you  patiently,  and  if  you  do  point  out  any  error  in 
my  life,  anything  in  which  I  have  been  doing  that  which  I  ought  noi 
to  do,  the  Lord  being  my  helper  I  will  thank  you  and  bless  you  for  it, 
and  bless  him  who  inspired  you  to  come.  Or,  go  to  those  who  preside 
over  you  and  me,  and  let  diem  judge  between  us.  But  do  not  go  around 
gossiping  about  me,  and  trying  to  undermine  my  influence,  which  I 
desire  before  the  Lord  to  be  for  good.  Do  not  condemn  me  unheard. 
Do  not  pick  out  a  rumor  from  the  air.  and  think  it  over  and  magnify 
it  until  it  becomes  an  established  fact  in  your  disordered  mind.  Bui 
on  the  other  hand,  if  I  am  guilty  of  sin  that  makes  me  unfit  to  be  one 
of  the  goodly  company  to  which  I  have  been  called,  that  should  be 
known ;  it  should  be  pointed  out,  in  the  proper  way  and  in  the  proper 
spirit. 

DISCIPLINE  REQUIRED  IN  THE  CHURCH 

Now,  the  Lord  has  provided  that  those  in  his  Church  shall  live 
according  to  the  law,  and  he  makes  a  distinction  between  the  law  per- 
taining to  the  Church  and  what  we  call  the  secular  law,  or  the  law 
of  the  land,  but  he  requires  obedience  to  each.  My  love  for  my  brother 
in  this  Church  does  not  mean  that  I  am  to  shield  him  when  he  has 
violated  the  law  of  the  land,  nor  that  I  am  to  stand  between  him  and 
righteous  judgment.  This  Church  is  no  organization  like  that  of  the 
secret  combinations  of  old,  which  the  Lord  hath  said  he  hates,  the 
members  of  which  were  pledged,  and  bound  by  oath  and  covenant,  that 
they  would  stand  by  each  other  whether  right  or  wrong,  that  they 
would  cover  up  one  another's  crimes,  that  they  would  justify  one  an- 
other in  theft  and  murder  and  in  all  things  that  were  unclean.  It  is 
no  such  organization  at  all.    It  would  not  be  of  God  if  it  were. 

The  resurrected  Christ,  after  his  ascension,  in  giving  the  revelation 
through  John,  instructing  the  revelator  to  have  messages  sent  to  the 
different  churches,  included  in  the  message  to  the  church  at  Ephesus 
the  word  that  he  did  have  something  good  to  say  to  them,  because,  as 
I  read,  "Thou  hatest  the  deeds  of  the  Nicolaitanes,  which  I  also  hate." 
(Rev.  1 :6.)  He  did  not  say  he  hated  the  members  of  that  unholy 
band,  but  he  did  hate  their  doctrines  and  practises,  which  were  the  doc- 
trines of  a  secret  combination,  the  members  of  which  were  pledged  to 
stand  by  each  other  no  matter  what  any  one  of  them  might  do.  That 
the  Lord  requires  discipline  in  his  Church  is  made  plain  in  the  revealed 
word,  as  you  may  read  in  the  42nd  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants : 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


"And  again,  I  say,  thou  shall  .,ot  kill;  but  he  that  killeth  shall  die. 
"Thou  shalt  not  steal;  and  he  that  stealeth  and  will  not  repent,  shall 
be  cast  out 

"Thou  shalt  not  lie;  he  that  lieth  and  will  not  repent,  shall  be  cast 

out. 

"Thou  shalt  lpve  thy  wife  with  all  thy  heart,  and  shalt  cleave  unto 
her  and  none  else; 

"And  he  that  looketh  upon  a  woman  to  lust  after  her,  shall  deny  the 
faith,  and  shall  not  have  the  Spirit,  and  if  he  repents  not  he  shall  be  cast 
out. 

"Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery;  and  he  that  committeth  adultery,  and 
repenteth  not,  shall  be  cast  out." 

And  then,  to  cut  the  matter  short,  he  says : 

"Thou  knowest  my  laws  concerning  these  things  are  given  in  my 
scriptures;  he  that  sinneth  and  repenteth  not,  shall  be  cast  out." 

In  the  latter  part  of  the  same  revelation,  we  find  these  instruc- 
tions : 

"And  if  a  man  or  woman  shall  rob,  he  or  she  shall  be  delivered  up 
unto  the  law  of  the  land. 

"And  if  he  or  she  shall  steal,  he  or  she  shall  be  delivered  up  unto  the 
law  of  the  land. 

"And  if  he  or  she  shall  lie,  he  or  she  shall  be  delivered  up  unto  the  law 
of  the  land. 

"And  if  he  or  she  do  any  manner  o£  iniquity,  he  or  she  shall  be  de- 
livered up  unto  the  law,  even  that  of  God. 

"And  if  thy  brother  or  sister  offend  thee,  thou  shalt  take  him  or  her 
between  him  or  her  and  thee  alone;  and  if  he  or  she  confess,  thou  shalt  be 
reconciled." 

Such  is  the  law  to  the  Church,  and  respecting  the  law  of  the  land, 
the  Lord  has  made  it  perfectly  plain  that  we  are  subservient  to  it  and 
are  required  to  sustain  it.  Though  we  have  our  tribunals  in  the  Church, 
established  according  to  the  order  of  the  Lord,  there  is  no  conflict  be- 
tween their  administration  and  that  of  the  courts  of  the  land. 

TENDER  TREATMENT  FOR  THE  SPIRITUALLY  SICK 

"Let  no  man  break  the  laws  of  the  land,"  saith  the  Lord  in  the 
58th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  "for  he  that  keepeth  the 
laws  of  God  hath  no  need  to  break  the  laws  of  the  land:  Wherefore, 
be  subject  to  the  powers  that  be,  until  he  reigns  whose  right  it  is  to 
reign,  and  subdues  all  enemies  under  his  feet."  And  then  referring 
to  the  laws  previously  given  he  said :  "Behold,  the  laws  which  ye  have 
received  from  my  hand  are  the  laws  of  the  Church,  and  in  this  light 
ye  shall  hold  them  forth.    Behold  here  is  wisdom." 

I  remind  you  of  the  strictness  with  which  the  Lord  regards  his 
people.  He  has  provided  tender  treatment  for  those  who  are  spiritually 
sick,  and  it  is  our  duty  to  assist  those  who  are  thus  stricken.  If  I  go 
to  my  brother  in  the  spirit  of  kindness,  and  that  spirit  must  be  with 
me  if  I  go  to  him  in  the  power  of  my  office  and  calling,  giving  unto 
him  words  of  counsel,  and  he  receive  them  not  in  the  spirit  in  which  I 
go,  he  becomes  an  offender  before  the  Lord.  If  I  do  so  when  my 
brother  comes  to  me,  I  become  an  offender.   But  you  know  there  are 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


65 


those  among  us  and  elsewhere — the  world  is  full  of  them — who  do  not 
want  to  be  criticized,  except  in  the  broad  sense  of  the  term,  and  then 
the  criticism  must  be  favorable.  They  want  to  be  patted  on  the  back ; 
they  want  to  be  told  that  everything  they  have  said  and  done*  is  right ; 
and  if  you  point  out,  perchance,  that  they  should  be  on  their  guard 
against  this  or  that,  or  they  should  right  this  wrong  or  that,  too  fre- 
quently they  become  offended  against  the  one  who  has  come  to  them 
even  as  a  physician  would  come  to  one  afflicted  with  disease. 

KEEP  THE  COMMANDMENTS  OF  THE  LORD 

To  the  people  I  say,  keep  the  commandents  of  the  Lord  as  you 
have  been  admonished  again  and  again.  Do  not  lie,  do  not  steal,  do  not 
take  advantage  of  your  neighbor,  do  not  have  lustful  thoughts,  do 
nothing  that  is  unclean.  Keep  these  commandments  of  the  Lord.  Bish- 
ops, presidents  of  stakes,  keep  ye  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 
When  you  have  under  your  care  those  who  are  offending,  you  shall 
■deal  with  them  as  the  Lord  hath  provided,  in  all  kindness  and  with 
a  desire  to  save  them ;  but  nevertheless,  you  are  not  to  cover  up  iniquity 
in  the  Church.  The  spirit  in  which  this  jurisdiction  is  to  be  exercised 
is  set  forth  by  the  Lord  in  plainness,  as  I  read  to  you  from  the  121st 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  : 

"Behold,  there  are  many  called,  but  few  are  chosen.  And  why  are  they 
not  chosen? 

"Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon  the  things  of  this  world, 
and  aspire  to  the  honors  of  men,  that  they  do  not  learn  this  one  lesson — 

"That  the  rights  of  the  Priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with  the 
powers  of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven  cannot  be  controlled  nor 
handled  only  upon  the  principles  of  righteousness. 

"That  they  may  be  conferred  upon  us,  it  is  true;  but  when  we  under- 
take to  cover  our  sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride,  our  vain  ambition,  or  to 
exercise  control,  or  dominion,  or  compulsion,  upon  the  souls  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  in  any  degree  of  unrighteousness,  behold,  the  heavens  with- 
draw themselves;  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved;  and  when  it  is  with- 
drawn, Amen  to  the  Priesthood,  or  the  authority  of  that  man." 

TOLERATION  ENJOINED 

You  see  the  safeguards  that  the  Lord  has  set.  Now,  the  Lord  hath 
enjoined  love  for  our  fellowmen  upon  us,  such  love  as  will  cause  us 
to  do  even  disagreeable  things  for  their  welfare,  to  do  that  which 
we  do  not  like  to  do,  to  speak  a  word  of  caution  when,  perchance,  we 
would  rather  not,  lest  we  be  misunderstood ;  but  the  Lord  requires  it  at 
our  hands ;  and  he  has  enjoined  upon  us  tolerance  toward  one  another. 
There  are  some  who  have  never  reasoned  carefully  along  the  line  of 
the  possibility  of  two  men,  for  example,  looking  at  things  from  dif- 
ferent points  of  view,  and  seeing  different  images,  and  yet  both  seeing 
the  truth.  "How  is  it  possible,"  some  have  asked,  "that  two  divergent 
ways  may  be  right  ?"  Why,  they  may  tum,  and  they  may  come  to  be 
right  after  all.  I  can  not  believe  that  two  men,  both  desiring  the  same 
ultimate  attainment,  and  that  good,  and  both  working  toward  that  end 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

with  full  and  sincere  purposes  of  heart,  can  not  both  be  right,  although 
they  seem  for  the  time  being  to  be  going  differently. 

Let  me  be  specific.  Do  you  mean  to  tell  me  that  all  good  is  in 
one  or  the  other  of  the  great  political  parties?  Why,  if  so,  if  it  be 
right  to  be  a  Democrat,  then  it  is  wrong  to  be  a  Republican.  No,  my 
friends.  It  may  be  perfectly  right  for  you  to  be  a  Democrat  and  equally 
so  for  me  to  be  a  Republican,  or  vice  versa.  We  have  our  different 
ways  of  looking  at  things,  but  if  I  believe  that  the  principles  of  the 
Democratic  party  are  right,  I  am  not  justified  in  condemning  my 
brother  who  believes  that  the  principles  of  the  Republican  party  are 
right.  I  believe  that  both  of  these  great  parties,  that  is  to  say  all 
honest  members  thereof,  have  at  heart  the  country's  good,  the  nation's 
welfare.  They  differ  as  to  the  best  means  of  attaining  this ;  and  to 
our  great  sorrow  they  have  dragged  into  the  field  of  partisanship  ques- 
tions that  never  should  have  been  brought  in,  because  they  are  funda- 
mentally not  partisan  at  all. 

THE  CHURCH  IN  ALL  THE  AFFAIRS  OF  LIFE 

Only  the  other  day  I  was  asked,  in  the  course  of  conversation 
with  an  intelligent  gentleman,  not  a  member  of  our  Church : 
"Is  the  'Mormon'  Church  in  politics?" 

I  answered  him :  "Most  assuredly  it  is  in  politics,  and  also  in  busi- 
ness, in  statesmanship,  in  all  the  affairs  of  life,  teaching  the  people  to 
do  what  is  right  so  far  as  it  possibly  can." 

"Well,  has  the  Church  any  candidates  in  the  pending  election?" 

"Yes,  indeed,"  said  I,  "the  Church  has  a  full  ticket,  and  is  counsel- 
ing its  members  just  how  to  vote." 

Now,  let  me  tell  you  just  how  you  should  vote,  just  as  I  told  him. 
The  Church  is  telling  its  members  to  look  upon  the  franchise  as  a 
sacred  gift,  to  exercise  it  according  to  their  very  best  judgment  before 
the  Lord,  and  the  Church's  ticket  is  the  ticket  of  the  best  men,  accord- 
ing to  the  best  judgment  of  the  people,  to  whichever  party  they  belong. 
Vote  the  party  ticket  if  you  honestly  feel  that  to  be  best,  or  vote  for  the 
men  you  think  will  most  effectively  subserve  the  needs  of  country,  state, 
and  people. 

OUR  RELIGION  MAKES  FOR  HONESTY  AND  TOLERANCE 

You  have  your  agency  and  you  know  that  you  are  free ;  therefore 
do  not  offend  the  Lord,  by  going  contrary  to  what  you  believe,  hon- 
estly and  after  thought  and  prayer,  to  be  right.  But  above  all,  do  not 
say  that  because  your  brother  does  not  see  things  just  as  you  do  in  the 
political  field,  he  necessarily  is  wrong.  I  was  very  much  touched  by 
the  president's  words — that  he  was  pained  at  the  evidence  that  had 
come  to  view,  that  some  brethren  condemn  their  fellows  because  these 
do  not  look  on  things  as  those  of  the  first  class  do  in  matters  political. 
Our  religion  should  purify  our  politics,  and  make  us  honest,  tolerant, 
and  bold,  to  do  that  which  is  required  of  citizens,  and  to  exercise  our 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMA'GE 


67 


rights  at  the  polls.  Our  religion  should  make  us  honest  in  business, 
truthful  in  all  our  doings.  To  be  so  is  to  be  in  line  with  the  keeping 
of  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  I  pray  that  this  may  continue  to  be 
a  characteristic  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

I  always  find  it  very  difficult  to  reach  a  conclusion  as.  to  how  1 
should  best  occupy  my  allotment  of  time  on  these  occasions.  I  think 
I  have  been  more  perplexed  than  usual  at  this  time  to  know  what  I 
ought  to  say,  in  an  attempt  to  make  some  contribution  to  the  great 
conference  that  we  are  now  holding.  I  desire  to  say  nothing  that  is 
inconsonant  with  the  splendid  remarks  that  have  already  been  made, 
and  with  the  excellent  spirit  that  has  here  prevailed.  I  feel,  as  Brother 
Whitney  expressed  himself,  to  give  over  my  thought  to  some  matters 
that  have  been  more  or  less  weighing  upon  my  mind ;  and  while  I  may 
not  be  able  to  give  solutions  to  some  of  the  problems  that  I  see  con- 
fronting us,  I  sincerely  hope,  with  the  aid  of  our  Father's  Spirit,  to 
be  able  to  present  to  you  some  questions  which  I  believe  deserve  our 
serious  consideration. 

THE  "WORLD"  HAS  BROUGHT  A  TRANSFORMATION  AMONG  US 

May  I,  by  way  of  premise,  go  back  a  few  years  in  the  history  of 
the  Church?  Not  many  years  ago  the  various  communities  of  the 
Church,  that  is,  the  communities  in  which  the  Latter-day  Saints  dwelt, 
were  made  up  almost  exclusively  of  members  of  the  Church.  I  think 
that  not  more,  perhaps,  than  twenty-five  or  thirty  years  ago  would 
have  found  our  villages  and  our  small  towns,  outside  of  the  few  large 
centers  in  this  intermountain  region,  to  be  peopled  almost  entirely  with 
members  of  our  Church.  These  villages,  these  country  towns,  while 
all  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  civil  government  and  all  functioning  as 
municipalities,  were  nevertheless  so  exclusively  made  up  of  people  all 
professing  one  religious  faith,  that  necessarily  there  was  a  unity  of  ex- 
pression in  matters  of  social  intercourse,  particularly,  that  was  very 
marked.  Nearly  all  of  the  activities  in  the  societies  that  then  prevailed 
were  carried  on  under  the  jurisdiction  of  Church  government.  Our 
wards,  being  small  centers  of  population,  so  formed  as  to  make  feasible 
and  practical  the  administration  of  social  affairs  and  functions,  were 
under  the  jurisdiction  of  their  bishops,  and  our  people  responded  al- 
most with  unanimous  accord  to  the  direction  and  the  influence  exer- 
cised by  the  Church  in  these  various  communities.  We  were  hom- 
ogeneous. 

With  the  passing  of  years  a  very  different  condition  has  come  to 
prevail.  In  the  larger  centers  of  the  Church  people  whom  we  some- 
times designate  as  "outsiders"  have  come  to  be,  in  numbers,  in  the 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

majority,  and  in  these  smaller  centers  of  the  Church  there  has  been 
such  an  influx  of  people,  not  members,  that  they  form  no  inconsiderable 
part  of  the  population  of  these  rural  communities,  that  were  once  al- 
most entirely  made  up  of  our  people.  With  the  influx  of  these  people 
into  our  various  comimunities  have  come  very  many  practices  that 
are  wholly  different  from  the  practices  and  the  standards  that  were 
once  employed  and  upheld.  The  "world,"  as  we  commonly  designate 
all  that  is  outside  of  our  Church,  has  literally  come  in  upon  us,  and  it 
has  brought  with  it  the  practices  of  the  world. 

OUR  RELATIONSHIP  TO  THE  "WORLD" 

As  I  have  given  my  thought  to  this  transformation  I  have 
ever  asked  myself  the  question :  What  is  our  real  relationship  to  the 
world?  How  ought  we  to  properly  articulate  in  carrying  forward  the 
functions  of  our  Church  with  these  portions  of  our  communities  that 
are  not  of  our  Church?  I  have  been  very  much  perplexed  in  my 
thinking  to  answer  for  myself  these  questions,  and  yet  I  have  regarded 
them  as  vital  and  essential  to  the  proper  going  forward  of  our  work. 
I  have  recognized  the  fact  that  in  an  attempt  to  answer  those  questions 
some  possible  offense  might  be  given  to  those  whom  we  designate 
as  being  of  the  world  and  not  of  us.  But  I  have  regarded  it  as  desir- 
able that  they,  as  well  as  we,  should  know  how  we  regard  our  mutual 
relationship.  I  have  been  particularly  concerned  with  the  question,  be- 
cause I  have  thought  that  it  has  very  definitely  affected  many  con- 
ditions in  the  Church  that  I  regard  as  being  serious  today.  May  I  il- 
lustrate ? 

ILLUSTRATION 

There  has  come  in  upon  us  the  practices,  the  fashions,  and  the 
rules  of  conduct,  and  a  standard  to  which  the  world  adhere.  People 
of  the  world,  living  for  things  somewhat  different  than  we  profess 
to  live  for,  have  sought  by  different  means  to  attain  their  goals  in 
life.  There  are  among  these  people  many  first  class  men  and  women, 
many  whom  I  am  proud  to  call  friends,  and  many  with  whom  we  all 
associate,  and  to  whom  we  look  up  as  being  desirable  in  every  sense 
of  the  word.  But  among  these  many  good  people  there  are  also 
numbers  who  are  wholly  devoid  of  any  of  the  conceptions  that  we 
ourselves  have  with  reference  to  our  duties  to  God  and  to  one  an- 
other. There  are  great  numbers  who  in  no  sense,  either  in  principle 
or  action,  stand  by  the  ideals  for  which  we  stand  and  to  which  we  de- 
vote our  lives. 

We  find  also  that  in  the  establishment  of  the  various  institutions 
that  we  have  among  us  there  has  come,  in  many  cases,  to  dominate, 
the  spirit  of  the  world.  I  have  reference  particularly  to  our  homes.  I 
know  that  any  thoughtful  man,  who  has  had  any  opportunity  for  obser- 
vation, will  be  convinced  that  throughout  the  whole  country  there 
is  a  growing  tendency  and  disposition  on  the  part  of  men  and  women 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


69 


not  to  regard  the  home  in  the  same  light  which  we  have  always  re- 
garded it.  I  know  that  men  and  women,  united  under  the  bonds 
of  matrimony,  in  many  cases,  altogether  too  numerous,  have  failed 
to  make  of  the  great  institution  of  marriage  that  which  God  intended 
it  should  be ;  and  I  know,  as  you  know,  that  the  time  which  is  devoted 
to  social  affairs,  so-called  social  affairs,  precludes  both  men  and  women 
in  the  world  from  making  home  such  as  it  ought  to  be,  in  order  to  in- 
sure a  citizenship  that  will  carry  forward  the  great  ideals  of  this  land. 

Now,  has  it  not  come  to  be  the  case,  in  very  many  of  the  com- 
munities where  Latter-day  Saints  dwell  with  non-"Mormon"  neigh- 
bors, that  the  Latter-day  Saints  themselves  have  entered  into  some 
of  the  same  practices  and  partaken  of  some  of  the  same  influences 
that  have  brought  to  pass  the  condition  which  I  have  named?  I 
ask  you,  is  it  reasonable  to  expect  that  young  men  and  young  women 
may  associate  with  their  neighbors  and  friends  not  of  the  Church,  par- 
take in  all  of  their  social  pastimes,  devote  themselves  to  these  so- 
called  teas  and  card  parties  and  club  arrangements,  and  at  the  same 
time  not  partake  of  those  influences  that  deter  men  and  women  from 
functioning,  as  God  intended  they  should  do,  in  the  building  up  of 
■the  race  and  in  the  maintenance  of  homes  which  constitute  the  very 
foundation  of  our  society  and  national  structure?  Is  it  reasonable  to 
think  that  that  influence  which  always  comes  from  close  contact  be- 
tween personalities,  when  it  induces  a  course  of  action  in  one  direc- 
tion, is  not  very  apt  to  induce  a  course  of  action  along  all  directions 
in  which  the  society  of  the  world  moves  ? 

EVERY  LEGITIMATE  OPPORTUNITY  FOR  SOCIAL  INTERCOURSE  SHOULD  BE 
PROVIDED  WITHIN  THE  CHURCH 

In  my  own  thinking  I  have  come  to  the  conclusion  that,  while 
it  may  be  possible  for  our  people  to  hold  close  communion  and  inter- 
course with  those  who  do  not  profess  our  standards  and  ideals,  and 
maintain  their  integrity,  their  virtue,  and  maintain  in  purity  their  own 
ideals  and  standards,  it  is  unlikely  that  they  will  do  so ;  and  I  am  con- 
vinced that  it  is  right  that  the  institutions  of  the  Church  should  provide 
for  our  people,  particularly  for  our  young  people,  for  whom  we  are 
all  deeply  solicitous,  the  facilities,  the  advantages,  the  necessary  op- 
portunity for  expression  of  all  that  is  good  within  them,  and  the  neces- 
sary opportunity  for  all  kinds  of  social  intercourse,  in  order  that  we 
may  preserve  in  its  original  purity  the  truth  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

A  MISTAKE  TO  MARRY  THOSE  NOT  OF  OUR  FAITH 

I  welcome  the  stranger  within  our  gates ;  I  welcome  a  fair  and 
proper  intercourse  between  men  and  women  not  of  our  Church  and 
those  of  the  Church ;  but  I  would  deplore  any  lack  of  opportunity 
within  our  Church  which  should  lead  our  young  people,  in  particular. 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  think  that  they  have  to  go  beyond  the  confines  of  the  Church  to 
find  the  necessary  opportunity  for  gratification  of  all  their  legitimate 
social  desires.  This  question,  in  my  judgment,  has  very  important 
and  divers  bearings  in  all  phases  of  our  life.  I  observe,  and  you 
know,  that  no  inconsiderable  number  of  the  young  men  and  young 
women  of  this  Church  are  marrying  outside  of  the  Church.  I  grant 
that  some  might  say  that  a  liberal,  broad-minded,  tolerant  policy 
would  welcome  such  a  situation.  I  believe  it  to  be  the  mind  of  the 
presiding  authorities  of  this  Church,  as  well  as  the  mind  of  all  thought- 
ful Latter-day  Saints,  that  it  is  the  profoundest  mistake  for  young  men 
and  young  women  of  this  Church  to  marry  those  who  are  not  adher- 
ents of  its  faith.  Experience  has'  demonstrated  in  so  many  cases  that 
it  would  not  be  possible  to  enumerate  them,  that  such  a  union,  in  our 
conception  of  that  great  relationship,  is  a  failure,  and  that  only  in 
the  most  exceptional  of  cases  does  it  prove  to  be  for  the  happiness 
and  the  welfare  of  the  parties  concerned.  I  believe,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  it  is  necessary  that  we  shall  maintain  our  standards  and 
our  ideals,  in  order  that  they  may  appeal  to  the  world,  and  in  order 
that  the  world,  seeing  our  good  works,  may  be  led  to  adopt  these 
principles  for  the  guidance  of  their  lives. 

THE  GOSPEL,  A  LIGHT  TO  THE  WORLD 

I  read  in  our  Doctrine  and  Covenants  the  following : 

And  even  so,  I  have  sent  mine  everlasting  gospel  into  the  world  to 
be  a  light  to  the  world,  and  to  be  a  Standard  for  my  people  and  for  the 
gentiles  to  seek  to  it,  and  to  be  a  messenger  before  my  face  to  prepare 
the  way  for  me. 

I  regard  that  message,  coming  from  our  Father,  to  indicate  to 
us  that  first  we  must  maintain  the  great,  high,  magnificent  standard 
of  living  that  he  has  given  to  us,  and  then  by  maintaining  that  standard 
we  will  attract  the  people  of  the  world  to  it,  and  let  them  know  of 
the  vitality  of  the  great  principles  that  we  espouse,  by  incorporating 
them  into  our  lives.  I  believe  that  the  world  does  not  want  our  doc- 
trines under  the  label  of  "Mormonism."  I  am  convinced  that  many  of 
the  principles  for  which  we  stand  are  acceptable  to  many  men  and 
women  in  the  world.  I  am  convinced  that  many  are  now  in  course 
of  adoption,  and  that  they  are  gaining  great  headway  among  all  the 
peoples  of  the  country.  But  I  am  convinced  that  they  do  not  want 
these  principles  under  the  label  of  "Mormonism."  They  want  to  work 
into  them  in  their  own  way.  They  want  to  incorporate  them  into  life 
and  society  under  different  names.  They  do  not  want  them  under  the 
name  of  "M,ormonism."  But  I  want  them  under  that  label.  I  want 
them  to  be  known  as  the  great  life-saving  principles  that  have  been 
revealed  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  want  the  world  to  know  that 
the  only  security  that  there  is  for  perfect  life,  for  advancement,  for 
progress,  for  peace,  lies  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.    I  want  the 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


71 


Lord  to  be  recognized  as  the  giver  of  all  these  great,  good,  and  vir- 
tuous things.  I  believe  that  the  only  way  in  which  we  can  sustain 
them  as  the  principles  of  the  gospel  in  unity,  in  their  integrity,  is  by 
cultivating  a  close  adherence  to  the  Church,  and  maintaining  the 
standards  for  which  it  stands. 

OUR  FORCES  SHOULD  BE  UNITED  AGAINST  SIN 

I  endorse  heartily  the  words  that  have  been  spoken  concerning 
sin,  and  I  regret,  beyond  expression,  the  fact  that  sin  is  creeping  in 
among  us.  I  believe  it  is  our  duty,  as  it  scarcely  ever  was  our  duty 
before,  to  unite  our  forces  against  this  incursion  of  sin,  and  in  order 
that  we  may  the  better  do  it  I  am  convinced  that  we  must  provide 
within  the  Church,  as  are  now  provided,  means  and  facilities  to  satisfy 
all  the  legitimate  desires  of  our  people. 

WE  MUST  PROVIDE  RECREATIONAL  INSTRUCTION  AND  EDUCATION 

In  order  to  make  some  practical  application  of  the  principles  that 
I  here  advocate,  I  would  like  to  suggest,  particularly  to  the  officers 
of  the  Church,  those  who  have  jurisdiction  over  its  various  organiza- 
tions, that  in  my  humble  judgment  we  are  equipped  with  every  neces- 
sary organization  to  provide  adequate  facilities  for  all  of  our  people  to 
fully  and  richly  live.  I  think  we  have  the  necessary  club  facilities.  I 
think  we  ought  to  provide  the  necessary  facilities  for  recreation,  and 
I  feel  that  it  is  the  proper  time  to  provide  such  opportunities  that  our 
young  people,  in  particular,  will  not  think  themselves  obliged  to  re- 
ceive their  recreational  instruction  and  education — because  education 
and  instruction  come  as  much  from  recreation  as  in  any  other  way — 
from  sources  in  no  wise  under  our  control,  and  which  bring  baneful 
influences  in  among  us. 

When  you  come  to  consider  the  fact  that  the  moving  picture  bus- 
iness has  today  come  to  be  one  of  the  very  largest  businesses  of  the 
country — I  heard  it  rated  only  a  short  time  ago  as  fourth — when  you 
come  to  consider  that  that  business  and  its  projections  appeal  to  all 
our  people,  in  every  hamlet,  in  every  village,  in  every  community 
where  we  dwell,  is  it  not  time  that  some  effort  should  be  made  to  di- 
rect and  supervise  and,  if  possible,  control  its  large  influence  upon  the 
lives  and  the  characters  of  out  people?  Has  the  time  not  come  when 
we  should  be  willing  and  able  to  provide  recreational  facilities,  so  that 
it  could  not  be  said  that  the  commercialized  dance  hall  or  the  com- 
mercialized theatre,  or  circuits  of  vaudeville,  have  a  monopoly  on  all 
of  the  dramatic  presentations,  carrying  with  them  their  influence 
and  the  force  of  their  instruction? 

INDISCRIMINATE  MIXTURE  DEPRECATED 

My  judgment  is  that  we  must  meet  the  situation  soon,  and  that 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

we  must  give  to  our  people,  within  the  organizations  of  the  Church, 
all  the  opportunity  necessary  for  the  development  of  culture,  for  the 
development  of  their  better  selves;  and  that  in  order  to  do  it,  it  will 
probably  be  necessary  to  stand  somewhat  aloof  from  the  world, 
whether  they  like  it  or  not.  I  cannot  but  think  that  when  the  Lord 
said  that  we  were  the  salt  of  the  earth,  he  intended  that  we  should 
so  preserve  the  great  principles  of  truth  committed  to  our  custody  that 
they  would  not  be  tainted  or  polluted  by  any  outside  worldly  influence ; 
and  I  regard  it  as  well  nigh  impossible  to  keep  them  in  their  undefiled 
purity  if  we  permit  an  indiscriminate  mixture  with  all  the  influences 
and  practices  and  fashions  and  fads  that  come  into  our  midst,  brought 
by  those  who  are  not  of  us. 

Now,  I  do  not  wish  to  be  considered  as  intolerant  of  others.  I 
recognize  a  very  great  obligation  to  the  stranger  who  has  come  among 
us.  I  recognize  the  obligation  that  has  been  referred  to  a  number  of 
times  during  this  conference  to  give  him  that  which  we  have.  I  tol- 
erate his  views  with  full  willingness ;  without  reservation  I  accord 
to  him  the  privilege  of  worshiping  how  or  whom  he  may.  I  want  him 
to  know  that  there  are  no  people  in  all  this  broad  land  who  more 
thoroughly  believe  in  the  true  principles  of  liberty  and  freedom  than 
do  our  people.  But  I  would  like  him  to  know,  at  the  same  time,  that 
we  are  trying  to  carry  forward  the  work  of  God,  that  we  regard 
ourselves  as  the  custodians  of  the  principles  of  truth,  committed  to  us 
in  this  last  dispensation  by  the  Lord  himself,  through  his  divinely 
chosen  prophet;  and  I  would  like  him  to  know  that  we  do  not  want 
those  great  principles  of  truth  in  the  slightest  degree  corrupted  by 
any  notions,  by  any  practice,  by  any  fashions  that  he  may  introduce 
among  us. 

CLOSE  ADHERENCE  TO  THE  ORGANIZATIONS  OF  THE  CHURCH  COUNSELED 

Therefore  my  thought  is,  and  I  propound  it  in  the  form  of  a  ques- 
tion, my  brethren  and  sisters :  Is  it  not  incumbent  upon  us  in  these 
perilous  times  to  adhere  close  to  the  organizations  of  the  Church,  to 
make  them  function  fully  in  the  lives  of  the  people  and  provide,  as  God 
himself  in  his  infinite  wisdom  and  mercy  and  kindness  has  provided 
for  us,  all  necessary  opportunity  for  the  complete  development  of  man- 
hood and  womanhood,  under  the  auspices  of  the  holy  Priesthood  of 
God  ?  I  pray  that  we  may  think  and  study  and  act,  and  I  do  it  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

After  a  number  of  notices  had  been  given  out  in  relation  to  the 
overflow  meetings  on  Sunday,  the  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
"Doxology." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  John  W.  Hart,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Rigby  Stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  was  adjourned  until  Sunday  morning. 


■ 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


73 


THIRD  DAY 


Conference  continued  in  the  tabernacle  Sunday  morning,  Oct.  10, 


President  Heber  J.  Grant  called  the  congregation  to  order  at  10 
o'clock. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire 
is  burning." 

Patriarch  Warren  Smith  of  American  Fork,  Alpine  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Praise  to  the  man  who  com- 
muned with  Jehovah." 


It  is  more  than  a  hundred  years  since  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
received  his  first  vision.  It  is  more  than  ninety  years  since  the  Church 
was  organized.  It  is  more  than  eighty-eight  years  since  the  prophet 
received  and  gave  to  the  world  the  revelation  on  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom. 


The  thought  of  the  amount  of  time  that  has  elapsed  since  these 
important  events  in  the  Church  took  place  suggests  that  I  read  the 
following  from  the  seventh  chapter  of  Matthew — a  few  of  the  last 
stanzas  in  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount.    I  begin  at  the  15th  verse: 

Beware  of  false  prophets,  which  come  to  you  in  sheep's  clothing,  but 
inwardly  they  are  ravening  wolves. 

Ye  shall  know  them  by  their  fruits.  Do  men  gather  grapes  of  thorns, 
or  figs  of  thistles? 

Even  so  every  good  tree  bringeth  forth  good  fruit;  but  a  corrupt  tree 
bringeth  forth  evil  fruit. 

A  good  tree  cannot  bring  forth  evil  fruit,  neither  can  a  corrupt  tree 
bring  forth  good  fruit. 

Every  tree  that  bringeth  not  forth  good  fruit  is  hewn  down,  and  cast 
into  the  fire. 

Wherefore  by  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them. 

Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the 
kingdom  of  heaven;  but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  my  Father  which  is  in 
heaven. 

Many  will  say  to  me  in  that  day  Lord,  Lord,  have  we  not  prophesied 
in  thy  name?  and  in  thy  name  have  cast  out  devils?  and  in  thy  name  done 
many  wonderful  works? 

And  then  will  I  profess  unto  them,  I  never  knew  you:  depart  from  me, 
ye  that  work  iniquity. 

Therefore  whosoever  [I  draw  attention  to  these  words  after  these 
long  years  have  passed  in  the  history  of  the  Church]  therefore,  whosoever 
heareth  these  sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them,,  I  will  liken  him  unto  a 
wise  mao,  which  built  his  house  upon  a  rock; 


1920. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


A  LESSON  FROM  THE  SERMON  ON  THE  MOUNT 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


And  the  rain  descended,  and  the  floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew, 
and  beat  upon  that  house;  and  it  fell  not:  for  it  was  founded  upon  a  rocK. 

And  every  one  that  heareth  these  sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them 
not,  shall  be  likened  unto  a  foolish  man,  which  built  his  house  upon  the 
sand: 

And  the  rain  descended,  and  the  floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew, 
and  beat  upon  that  house;  and  it  fell:  and  great  was  the  fall  of  it. 

"WE  STAND  FOR  THE  NON-USE  AND  NON-SALE  OF  tobacco" 

More  than  eighty-eight  years  since  the  Word  of  Wisdom  was 
given  to  the  world  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  A  business 
man  of  this  city  stated  in  my  presence  a  few  days  ago  that  the  stir 
we  are  making  with  respect  to  the  use  of  tobacco  is  having  the  ef- 
fect of  increasing  rather  than  having  the  effect  of  decreasing  the 
amount  of  tobacco  that  is  being  used.  This  man  needs  but  to  be 
associated  with  our  Church  auxiliary  organizations  in  order  to  learn 
that  his  assertion  is  not  correct.  If  he  had  looked  into  the  faces 
of  those  who  assembled  this  morning  as  Mutual  Improvement  offi- 
cers and  other  workers,  if  he  had  seen  their  clean  faces,  if  he  could 
know  their  clean  lives,  if  he  could  know  the  intensity  of  their  deter- 
mination to  labor  for  the  improvement,  the  education,  the  uplift  of 
the  young  people  of  the  Church,  he  would  realize  that  his  assertion 
is  not  correct.  Audiences  of  this  same  quality  I  see  when  meeting 
with  the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  workers  in  the  various 
stakes  of  Zion.  And  what  can  be  said  of  these  can  be  said  also  of 
the  workers  in  the  Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  Associations, 
of  the  workers  in  the  Relief  Society,  in  the  Sabbath  Schools,  in  the 
Primary  organizations  and  in  the  Religion  Classes. 

The  slogan  of  the  Mutual  Improvement  Associations  for  this 
year  is:  "We  stand  for  the  non-use  and  non-sale  of  tobacco."  When 
our  legislature  was  in  session  recently  one  active  Mutual  Improvement 
worker  presented  a  bill  in  the  state  senate  providing  for  the  abolition 
of  the  cigarette  in  the  state  of  Utah.  When  he  presented  his  argu- 
ments in  favor  of  this  measure  his  fellow  legislators  told  him  there 
was  no  sentiment  or  little  sentiment  in  the  state  of  Utah  in  favor  of 
legislation  of  that  sort  and  no  serious  demand  for  it. 

IS  THE  SENTIMENT  OF  THE  PEOPLE  FOR  THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM? 

I  want  to  know  whether  we  believe  in  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
or  not.  I  want  to  know  if  this  great  multitude  of  people,  assembled 
in  this  historic  place,  followers  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  wor- 
shipers of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  believe  in  these  revela- 
tions nearly  eighty-eight  years  since  that  revelation  was  given. 
The  President  of  the  Church  said  in  one  of  our  meetings  a  little 
while  ago:  "Certainly  in  this  length  of  time  we  ought  to  begin  to  see 
the  fruits  of  our  labors." 

The  promises  that  are  made  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  which 
were  read  yesterday  by  President  Rudger  Clawson,  are,  or  ought 
to  be  in  themselves,  enough  to  induce  us  to  live  in  accordance  with 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


75 


the  teachings  of  this  great  revelation.  Nor  is  it  necessary  for  us  to 
base  our  conclusions  with  respect  to  these  matters  entirely  upon  this 
revelation. 

ANDREW  D.  WHITE  ON  TOBACCO 

One  of  the  great  American  educators,  only  a  few  years  ago,  asked 
the  multitude  of  teachers  who  were  before  him,  to  go  out  and  take 
to  the  young  people  of  the  country  a  message  from  him,  Andrew  D. 
White,  against  the  habit  of  smoking.  I  wrote  to  this  great  teacher  and 
college  president  later  with  respect  to  this  matter.  One  sentence  of 
his  reply  reads :  "I  consider  any  young  man  at  school,  in  college  or 
in  any  professional  school,  is  seriously,  indeed,  almost  fatally  handi- 
capped by  the  habit  of  smoking."  Andrew  D.  White  was  a  great 
educator,  and  statesman.  It  was  he  who  served  so  ably  as  ambassa- 
dor to  the  Imperial  German  empire.  It  was  he  who,  as  a  professor 
at  the  University  of  Michigan,  and  as  president  of  the  Cornell  Uni- 
versity, lived  in  close  touch  with  college  men  for  a  period  of  fifty 
years. 

That  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  a  tremendous  work  to  do  we 
all  agree.  We  can  only  do  this  work  well  if  we  live  in  accordance 
with  the  teachings  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  cannot  stand 
around  with  our  hands  in  our  pockets  and  get  things  accomplished. 
We  cannot  drink  tea,  we  cannot  drink  coffee,  we  cannot  drink  liquor, 
we  cannot  use  tobacco,  we  cannot  be  unkind,  or  dishonest,  and  in 
reason  expect  to  accomplish  our  tremendous  task.  If  we  live  these 
teachings  we  shall  be  known  everywhere  for  our  good  works — the 
charity  that  we  extend,  the  kindness  that  we  put  forth,  and  the  honor 
which  characterize  our  dealings.  These  are  the  genuine  products  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

SENTIMENTS  OF  DAVID  STARR  JORDAN 

Another  quotation  on  the  subject  of  smoking  from  the  great 
educator,  David  Starr  Jordan :  "I  am  not  much  of  a  mathematician, 
said  the  cigarette,  but  I  can  add  to  man's  nervous  troubles,  I  can 
subtract  from  his  physical  energy,  I  can  multiply  his  aches  and  pains, 
I  can  divide  his  mental  powers,  I  can  take  interest  from  his  work  and 
I  can  discount  his  chances  of  success." 

Another  from  Dr.  Jordan.  This  I  heard  quoted  many  years 
ago  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant  :  "Boys  who  smoke  cigarettes  are 
like  wormy  apples.  They  drop  long  before  the  harvest  time.  They 
rarely  make  failures  in  after  life,  because  they  don't  have  any  after 
life.  When  the  other  boys  are  taking  hold  of  the  world's  work  these 
are  concerned  with  the  sexton  and  the  undertaker." 

APPEAL  TO  ENFORCE  THE  LAWS 

"Whosoever,"  says  the  great  Master,  "whosoever  heareth  these 
words  of  mine  and  doeth  them,  I  shall  liken  unto  a  wise  man  who 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


built  his  house  upon  a  rock  and  the  rains  descended  and  the  floods 
came  and  the  winds  blew  and  beat  upon  this  house  and  it  fell  not,  for  it 
was  founded  on  a  rock."  I  appeal  to  you  as  a  young  man,  as  a 
Mutual  Improvement  worker,  one  who  is  interested,  intensely  so,  in 
the  welfare  of  the  boys  of  this  state,  I  appeal  to  you  every  one  to  see 
to  it  that  the  laws  of  the  state,  as  they  exist  today,  are  enforced,  that 
these  boys  who,  in  their  ignorance  are  destroying,  by  the  use  of  cig- 
arettes, their  chance  of  success  may  be  protected  against  themselves. 

OUR  DETERMINATION 

An  election  is  coming.  I  wish  that  in  all  the  conventions  all 
over  the  state  the  same  resolution  had  been  adopted  that  was  presented 
and  adopted  in  one  of  the  counties  by  one  of  the  political  parties.  I 
think  they  used  these  words:  "We  stand  for  the  non-use  and  the 
non-sale  of  tobacco  in  the  state  of  Utah." 

When  the  next  legislature  meets,  I  beg  of  you,  see  to  it  that 
the  men  who  represent  you  realize  that  there  is  in  Utah  a  determina- 
tion to  preserve  the  brains,  the  memories  and  the  reasoning  powers  of 
our  boys.  We  are  determined  to  increase  and  not  decrease  their 
chances  of  success.  Whosoever  heareth  these  teachings  and  liveth  in 
accordance  with  them,  the  great  Master  himself  has  likened  unto  the 
wise  man  who  built  his  house  upon  the  rock.  The  rains  descended, 
the  winds  blew,  the  floods  came  and  beat  upon  the  house,  and  it  fell 
not,  for  it  was  founded  on  a  rock.  Let  the  legislators  know  that  our 
faith,  too,  is  founded  on  a  rock,  I  ask  it  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Emma  Lucy  Gates  Bowen  sang  a  solo,  the  words  of  which  are 
found  on  page  66,  L.  D.  S.  Hymn  Book,  "Should  you  feel  inclined 
to  censure." 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  find  myself  in 
complete  accord  with  my  brethren,  and  with  all  that  has  been  said  dur- 
ing the  sessions  of  this  wonderful  conference.  Many  times,  as  I  ha*e 
sat  here  looking  upon  this  wonderful  scene — the  gathering  of  the  chil- 
dren of  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  entered  these  valleys — I  have  been 
thinking,  again  and  again,  of  the  question :  Do  we  really  realize  who 
we  are  and  why  we  are  here? 

WHO    ARE  WE? 

I  am  sure  if  we  shall  give  it  a  moment's  thought  it  will  impress 
itself  upon  us  that  our  being  here  is  no  ordinary  circumstance ;  and 
if  we  shall  give  attention  to  what  the  Lord  has  said,  I  am  sure  we  shall 
be  convinced  that  we  are  no  ordinary  race  of  individuals.  We  have 
learned,  through  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  in  this  dispensation,  that 
when  "one  of  a  city  and  two  of  a  family"  should  be  gathered,  as  we 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD  77 

have  been  gathered  from  the  nations  of  the  earth,  those  who  would 
thus  be  gathered  would  be  the  children  of  Israel;  and  individually 
we  have  received  assurances,  through  the  words  of  the  inspired  patri- 
archs, that  we  are  descendants  of  Joseph  who  was  sold  into  Egypt, 
upon  whose  posterity  were  placed  blessings  beyond  the  blessings  of 
his  progenitors,  and  these  blessings  are  ours,  even  to  the  utmost  bounds 
of  the  everlasting  hills,  where  we  are  now  assembled. 

We  have  learned  that  the  Lord  has  had  in  training,  before  they 
came  into  this  world ,  tried  and  tested  individuals,  even  as  he  revealed 
to  Abraham,  to  be  his  leaders  in  the  various  dispensations — men  whom 
he  knew,  prophets,  statesmen,  wise  men,  and  leaders  for  all  nations.  1 
am  convinced  also  that  when  our  Father  sent  these  leaders  into  the 
world  he  did  not  send  them  alone.  He  sent,  in  connection  with  them, 
hosts  of  other  tried  souls  who  would  be  helps  to  those  who  were  se- 
lected of  the  Lord  to  be  his  leaders.  I  believe,  therefore,  that  when 
the  time  came  for  the  birth  into  the  world  of  the  chosen  prophet, 
Joseph  Smith,  who  was  selected  before  he  came  into  the  world  to  be 
the  prophet  of  this  last  dispensation, — he  did  not  come  alone,  but 
there  came  with  him  men  and  women  like  unto  himself,  tried  souls. 
God  knew  them.  He  held  them  in  reserve  for  ages,  until  this  day 
should  dawn.  They  were  scattered  among  the  nations  of  the  earth. 
They  were  born  in  those  houses  where  the  blood  of  Israel  still  re- 
mained, and  inherited  the  promises  made  to  our  ancient  fathers.  These 
choice  souls  were  sifted  among  the  nations  of  the  earth,  but  they  heard 
the  call,  and  they  came  willingly  because  they  had  to,  in  very  many  in- 
stances ;  and  the  Lord  gave  them  no  peace  in  their  native  lands.  Their 
own  homes  were  closed  against  them.  They  were  denied  admittance 
to  their  former  circles,  and  so  the  way  was  closed  up  behind  them, 
and  the  way  was  opened  up  before  them.  They  followed  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Spirit  as  it  appealed  to  their  souls,  and  the  circumstances 
with  which  they  were  surrounded  made  it  necessary  for  them  to  come. 
They  came  here  that  they  may  inherit  the  blessings  and  promises  made 
unto  their  fathers.  So  I  bear  witness  to  you  that  the  Lord  not  only 
called  them  but  he  was  sifting  them  out  as  they  came  to  these  abiding 
places  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  sifting  them  out  by  trial,  by  difficulty, 
by  the  hardship  of  crossing  the  sea  and  crossing  the  plains,  and  the 
difficulties  of  the  desert.  All  these  things  were  as  a  sieve,  parting 
those  who  would  have  been  of  no  great  profit  in  the  establishment  of 
this  work,  from  those  who  had  the  faith,  the  quality  and  the  power 
necessary  to  contribute  to  the  establishment  of  Latter-day  Zion.  So 
I  am  impressed,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  are  shown  whom  we 
are — chosen  sons  and  daughters  of  God,  sent  into  the  world  in  this 
age  for  a  specific  purpose,  and  we  are  gathered  here  for  the  accomp- 
lishment of  definite  things. 

THE  CHOSEN  SONS  AND  DAUGHTERS  OF  GOD 

I  want  to  read  what  the  Lord  said  on  this  subject.   You  will  find 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


in  the  eighty-sixth  section  of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
beginning  with  the  fourth  paragraph,  these  words : 

But  behold,  in  the  last  days,  even  now  while  the  Lord  is  beginning 
to  bring  forth  the  word,  and  the  blade  is  springing  up  and  is  yet  tender. 

Behold,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  the  angels  are  crying  tvnto  the  Lord  day 
and  night,  who  are  ready  and  waiting  to  be  sent  forth  to  reap  down  the 
fields; 

But  the  Lord  saith  unto  them,  pluck  not  up  the  tares  while  the  blade 
is  yet  tender,  (for  verily  your  faith  is  weak)  lest  you  destroy  the  wheat  also. 

Therefore  let  the  wheat  and  the  tares  grow  together  until  the  harvest 
is  fully  ripe,  that  ye  shall  first  gather  out  the  wheat  from  among  the  tares, 
and  after  the  gathering  of  the  wheat,  behold  and  lo!  the  tares  are  bound 
in  bundles,  and  the  field  remaineth  to  be  burned. 

Therefore,  thus  saith  the  Lord,  unto  you,  with  whom  the  Priesthood 
hath  continued  through  the  lineage  of  your  fathers. 

For  ye  are  lawful  heirs,  according  to  the  flesh,  and  have  been  hid  from 
the  world  with  Christ  in  God; 

Therefore  your  life  and  the  Priesthood  hath  remained  and  must  needs 
remain  through  you  and  your  lineage,  until  the  restoration  of  all  things 
spoken  by  the  mouths  of  all  the  holy  prophets  since  the  world  bega.n. 

Therefore,  blessed  are  ye  if  ye  continue  in  my  goodness,  a  light  unto 
the  Gentiles,  and  through  this  Priesthood,  a  savior  unto  my  people,  Israel. 
The  Lord  hath  said  it.  • 

I  am  willing  to  accept  this  statement.  I  believe  it.  I  am  con- 
vinced that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  the  "wheat,"  and  they  have  been, 
and  are  being  gathered  out  from  the  midst  of  the  "tares"  of  the  earth. 
They  are  the  salt  of  the  earth,  and  the  gathering  of  the  wheat  from 
the  midst  of  the  tares  is  almost  completed.  There  remains  but  the 
gleaning  of  the  wheat;  and  when  the  wheat  is  gathered  the  tares  shall 
be  bound  in  bundles,  and  the  burning  time  remaineth  for  them.  The 
Lord  gathered  this  people  out  from  the  midst  of  the  nations  of  the 
earth  to  preserve  them  from  the  desolations  that  would  come. 

I  bear  witness  to  you  that  the  angels  of  God,  who  hold  the  power 
delegated  to  them  to  pour  out  his  judgments  upon  the  wicked,  marvel 
at  God's  leniency  and  patience  to  this  generation.  That  is  why  they 
cried:  "Why  are  we  not  permitted  to  go  forth?"  They  are  stayed 
and  held  back. 

THE  RESPONSIBILITY  OF  THIS  GENERATION 

I  believe  that  great  responsibility  rests  upon  this  generation,  be- 
cause light  has  come  into  the  world,  and  men  sin  in  the  presence  of 
light  and  knowledge,  and  thereby  their  condemnation  exceeds  the 
condemnation  of  Sodom  and  Gomorrah.  I  believe  that  the  Lord  not 
only  called  the  Latter-day  Saints  here  to  escape  the  judgments  of  the 
world,  but  he  called  us  here  to  be  a  light  unto  the  gentiles ;  the  world's 
hope,  the  world's  inspiration.  God  has  assigned  a  mission  to  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.    Let  us  not  forget  it. 

'  I  believe  that  we  are  to  solve  the  problems  of  the  world,  and  when 
I  think  of  one  of  the  most  distressful  things  that  exists  in  the  world 
today — the  great  conflict  between  capital  and  labor,  that  is  rending 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD  79 

the  nations,  that  is  poisoning  the  hearts  of  men,  I  feel  that  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  have  a  great  mission  to  point  the  way  for  the  solution 
of  those  questions.  I  believe  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  one  hundred 
years  nearer  their  solution  than  anybody  else  in  the  world.  The  Lord 
gave  us  the  key  a  long  time  ago;  but  we  were  not  prepared  to  live 
up  to  it  at  that  time.  So,  when  he  discovered  our  lack  of  training 
and  ability  to  do  this  work,  the  Lord  gave  us  another  principle,  known 
as  the  law  of  tithing;  and  the  law  of  tithing,  he  states  in  these  revela- 
tions, was  to  act  as  a  schoolmaster  to  bring  us  to  the  higher  law,  the 
order  that  was  established  among  Enoch  and  his  people,  by  which 
there  was  no  rich  and  no  poor  among  them.  I  want  to  bear  witness 
to  you  that  the  time  of  our  probation  in  that  school  will  not  be  forever. 
.  I  beleieve  there  are  hundreds  and  thousands  of  Latter-day  Saints  who 
have  profited  under  that  schoolmaster,  so  that  they  are  about  ready 
for  graduation,  and  I  believe  the  day  of  their  graduation  is  coming. 
When  the  Lord  shall  see  fit,  they  shall  be  called  by  the  leaders  of  this 
Church  to  join  in  the  grand  demonstration  that  shall  prove,  not  "only 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints  but  to  the  world,  that  the  right  order  of  things 
God  ordained  from  the  beginning  can  and  will  be  established  in  these 
latter  days.  So,  if  we  have  not  profited  under  this  schoolmaster,  if  we 
have  been  poor  attendants,  if  we  have  been  truants,  if  we  are  not  ready 
for  graduation,  let  us  repeat,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  resolve 
we  are  going  to  be  honest  with  the  Lord  in  the  payment  of  our  tith- 
ing, that  we  may  be  among  those  who  shall  be  ready  for  promotion, 
and  the  accomplishment  of  these  glorious  purposes.  For  Zion  must 
show  the  way.  We  have  the  key.  We  know  the  way,  and  we  are  in 
training  to  accomplish  those  things.  I  want  to  advise  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  there  is  no  solution  to  those  questions,  except  by  and 
through  the  gospel   of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

RESPONSIBILITY  OF  RICH  AND  POOR 

I  will  read  you  a  few  more  words  from  the  fifty-sixth  section  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  sixteenth  verse — an  inspired  statement 
that  seems  to  fit  exactly  our  times : 

Woe  unto  you  rich  men,  that  will  not  give  your  substance  to  the  poor, 
for  your  riches  will  canker  your  souls;  and  this  shall  be  your  lamentation 
in  the  day  of  visitation,  and  of  judgment,  and  of  indignation.— The  harvest 
is  past,  the  summer  is  ended,  and  my  soul  is  not  saved. 

Do  no  let  us  mistake,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  meaning  of 
the  Lord.  He  has  no  purpose  to  deny  the  rich  the  blessings  of  heaven. 
He  has  no  enmity  in  his  heart  against  the  rich  whose  hearts  are  broken, 
and  who  give  to'  the  maintenance  of  his  work.  I  rejoice  that  in  this 
Church  we  do  have  men  of  wealth  and  means  whose  hearts  are  broken, 
and  who  pay  their  honest  tithing,  whose  example  is  a  shining  one  for 
all  Latter-day  Saints ;  but  there  are  those  who  live  only  for  themselves, 
who  hold  all  they  get  for  themselves,  and  therein  they  are  in  jeopardy. 

I  am  reminded  again  of  the  suggestion  made  by  the  President  in 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  opening  of  this  conference,  when  he  read  us  the  letter  from  Brother 
and  Sister  McCune,  giving  their  beautiful  home  to  the  Church — a 
splendid  example  for  all  others  in  their  circumstances  to  follow.  Our 
safety  is  in  keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  The  solution  of 
the  world's  troubles  will  not  come  by  the  rich  banding  together  and 
thinking  only  of  themselves.   Then  the  Lord  said : 

Wbe  unto  you  poor  men,  whose  hearts  are  not  broken,  whose  spirits 
are  not  contrite,  and  whose  bellies  are  not  satisfied,  and  whose  hands 
ara  not  stayed  from  laying  hold  upon  other  men's  goods,  whose  eyes  are 
full  of  greediness,  who  will  not  labor  with  your  own  hands. 

Do  you  know  anybody  like  that  ?  The  world  is  full  of  them !  It 
is  a  sin  of  this  age,  that  men  of  poverty  become  envious  and  are  in  as 
great  condemnation  before  the  Lord  as  the  rich  whose  hearts  are  not 
broken,  who  are  full  of  envy,  who  are  full  of  malice  toward  those 
who  have  some  of  the  things  of  this  world.  That  is  the  spirit  of 
Bolshevism.  It  should  have  no  place  in  the  hearts  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
The  •  poor  should  love  the  rich,  and  the  rich  should  love  the  poor, 
otherwise  we  shall  never  come  into  universal  brotherhood  and  reach  a 
solution  of  these  problems,  which  we  hope  to  be  able  to  solve,  by  and 
through  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

But  blessed  are  the  poor  [yes,  and  the  rich,  too], 

Blessed  are  the  poor  who  are  pure  in  heart,  whose  hearts  are  broken, 
and  those  spirits  are  contrite,  for  they  shall  see  the  kingdom  of  God  com- 
ing in  power  and  great  glory  unto  their  deliverance;  for  the  fatness  of  the 
earth  shall  be  theirs. 

For  behold,  the  Lord  shall  come,  and  his  recompense  shall  be  with  him, 
and  he  shall  reward  every  man,  and  the  poor  shall  rejoice; 

And  their  generations  shall  inherit  the  earth  from  generation  to  gener- 
ation, for  ever  and  ever. 

I  am  just  simple  enough  to  believe  it.  There  is  no  solution  of 
these  problems  outside  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  by 
adherence  to  these  things  the  rich  and  the  poor  shall  live  together  as 
brothers.  We  shall  not  be  banded  off,  one  group  of  laborers  into  one 
class,  fighting  only  for  themselves  and  their  own  against  all  others. 
We  shall  be  living  together  in  the  spirit  of  love  and  co-operation.  I 
believe  that  it  is  necessary  that  we  Latter-day  Saints  should  keep  our 
minds  upon  these  things,  for  this  is  the  goal  to  which  we  are  destined 
to  come. 

SALVATION  TO  ISRAEL 

Then  there  is  one  other  promise  that  was  made.  We  were  not 
only  to  be  a  light  unto  the  Gentiles ;  we  were  to  be  the  means  of  bring- 
ing salvation  to  Israel ;  and  in  conclusion  I  want  to  read  a  few  words 
from  the  forty-fifth  section  of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  on 
that  subject.  These  words  are  a  repetition  to  Joseph  Smith,  on  the  7th 
day  of  March,  1831,  of  words  originally  spoken  by  the  Master  upon 
the  Mount  of  Olives,  when  he  was  discussing  with  the  disciples  the 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


81 


judgment  that  would  come  upon  Jerusalem,  its  destruction,  the  dis- 
persion of  the  Jews,  and  then  their  gathering  again,  and  the  coming 
of  the  Lord  in  the  last  days.  He  said,  beginning  with  the  twenty-sec- 
ond verse: 

Ye  say  that  ye  know  that  the  end  of  the  wold  comieth;  ye  say  also 
that  ye  know  that  the  heavens  and  the  earth  shall  pass  away; 

And  in  this  ye  say  truly,  for  so  it  is;  but  these  things  which  I  have 
told  you  shall  not  pass  away  until  all  shall  be  fulfilled, 

And  this  I  have  told  you  concerning  Jerusalem,  and  when  that  day 
shall  come,  shall  a  remnant  be  scattered  among  all  nations; 

But  they  shall  be  gathered  again,  but  they  shall  remain  until  the 
times  of  the  Gentiles  be  fulfilled. 

And  in  that  day  shall  be  heard  of  wars  and  rumors  of  wars,  and  the 
whole  earth  shall  be  in  commotion,  and  men's  hearts  shall  fail  them,  and 
they  shall  say  that  Christ  delayeth  his  coming  until  the  end  of  the  earth. 

And  the  love  of  men  shall  wax  cold,  and  iniquity  shall  abound; 

And  when  the  times  of  the  Gentiles  is  come  in, — [that  is,  the  beginning 
of  this  period] — 

And  when  the  times  of  the  Gentiles  is  come  in,  a  light  shall  break 
forth  among  them  that  sit  in  darkness,  and  it  shall  be  the  fulness  of  my 
gospel; 

But  they  receive  it  not,  for  they  perceive  not  the  light  and  they  turn 
their  hearts  from  me  because  of  the  precepts  of  men; 

And  in  that  generation  [the  generation  when  the  light  shall  break 
forth] 

And  in  that  generation  shall  the  times  of  the  Gentiles  be  fulfilled. 
THE  GOSPEL  FIRST  TO  THE  GENTILES 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  plainly  as  anything  that  the  Lord 
has  ever  given  us,  we  understand  that  the  beginning  of  the  times 
of  the  Gentiles  was  when  the  light  broke  forth  in  these  latter  days, 
and  the  gospel  was  given  first  to  the  Gentiles.  It  was  written  in 
olden  times  that  those  who  were  first,  the  Jews,  who  received  the  gos- 
per  first  in  former  days,  should  be  last  in  receiving  it  in  the  latter 
days ;  and  those  who  were  last  in  receiving  the  gospel  in  former  days, 
namely,  the  Gentiles,  shal  be  first  in  the  latter  days.  So  the  gospel  dis- 
pensation in  the  latter  days  was  to  the  Gentiles  first;  and  now  our 
souls  thrill  when  we  think  of  the  great  labor  that  has  been  accomp- 
lished among  the  Gentile  nations  for  nearly  a  hundred  years.  For  it 
is  a  hundred  years  ago  now  since  that  light  began  to  break  forth,  and 
finally  came  in  its  fulness,  ten  years  later,  when  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  established  in  the  earth;  and  for  all 
these  many  years,  by  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands,  the  elders  of 
this  Church  have  preached  the  gospel  among  the  Gentile  nations,  and 
the  blood  of  Israel  hath  been  gathered  out  from  the  midst  of  the  Gen- 
tiles, until  the  day  of  gleaning  draweth  nigh.  There  shall  come  a  day 
when  the  Gentiles  shall  reject  this  gospel,  they  will  close  their  doors 
against  it.  That  will  be  the  day  when  the  wheat  is  gathered  and  when 
the  salt  of  the  earth  is  taken  from  among  them.  When  that  day  comes 
they  will  care  no  more  for  the  word  of  God,  and  they  will  close  their 


'  ■ 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

doors  aganist  it.  When  that  day  comes  then  cometh  the  day  of  the 
redemption  of  Israel,  and  that  day  is  nigh  at  hand.  For,  when  the 
Gentiles  shall  begin  to  reject  this  word,  Israel  shall  begin  to  receive 
it.  We  see  the  evidences  of  God's  preparation  for  that  great  work  of 
the  redemption  of  Israel  under  way.  Our  souls  were  thrilled  as  we  saw 
the  armies  of  the  Allies  march  through  the  land  of  Palestine,  and 
break  down  the  power  that  had  held  that  land  under  its  dominion,  in 
cruelty,  for  ages. 

THE  JEWS  NOW  TURNING  TOWARD  JERUSALEM 

Now  our  souls  are  thrilled  to  see  our  half  brothers,  the  Jews, 
turning  toward  the  land  of  promise ;  and  for  the  first  time  since  their 
long  dispersion  one  of  their  own  people,  an  orthodox  Jew,  is  the  ruler 
of  the  land  of  Palestine.  The  Jews  will  go  there.  God  knows  how  to 
bring  them.  He  did  it  in  our  case,  and  he  knows  how  to  bring  them. 
They  may  say  they  will  not  go,  but  they  will.  The  Lord  will  hedge 
up  the  way  behind  them,  and  he  will  open  up  the  way  before  them,  and 
unto  his  appointed  place  they  shall  go,  in  preparation  for  their  conver- 
sion at  the  hands  of  the  Master.  For  he  shall  come  in  the  day  of  their 
trouble,  to  their  deliverance.  He  will  stand  upon  the  Mount  of  Olives, 
which  shall  cleave  in  twain,  and  a  valley  shall  open  for  their  rescue 
from  their  oppressors ;  and  when  they  come  to  the  feet  of  their  Deliv- 
erer they  shall  see  the  marks  of  the  nails  in  his  feet  and  in  his  hands, 
and  shall  say:  "What  are  these  wounds?"  Then  he  shall  say  unto 
them :  "I  am  Jesus  Christ,  who  was  crucified.  These  are  the  wounds 
I  received  in  the  house  of  my  friends."  Then  shall  a  nation  be  con- 
verted in  a  day,  and  shall  respond  and  become  God's  chosen  people. 

THE  LAMANITES  TO  BE  REMEMBERED 

Then  another  part  of  the  House  of  Israel,  the  children  of  Father 
Lehi  shall. not  be  forgotten,  though  they  have  long  been  in  dispersion. 
A  prophet  of  old,  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  said  that  at  the  hands  of 
the  Gentiles  they  would  suffer  and  be  scattered,  but  again  the  Gentiles 
should  become  their  blessing.  I  bear  witness  to  you  that  God,  through 
the  Gentile  nations,  is  preparing  the  Indians  of  this,  the  American  con- 
tinent, through  their  allotments  of  land,  through  their  education,  and 
in  divers  other  ways,  for  the  acceptance  and  living  of  his  gospel,  and 
the  day  of  their  redemption  draweth  nigh.  The  Lord  said,  in  the  third  ■ 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  that  for  this  very  purpose  the 
Book  of  Mormon  was  given  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  to  bring  to 
pass  the  redemption  of  Father  Lehi's  children,  the  Lamanites. 

THE  LOST  TRIBES  SHALL  ALSO  HEAR 

Not  only  the  Lamanites,  but  others  of  Israel  shall  hear — the  lost 
tribes,  to  whom  the  Master  said  he  would  go,  and  they  should  hear 
his  voice.  My  witness  and  testimony  is  that  they  are  preparing  them- 
selves ;  that  even  now  their  prophets  prophecy  of  their  deliverance  and 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD  83 

are  preparing  that  people.  The  mountains  of  ice  shall  flow  down 
before  them,  and  a  highway  shall  be  cast  up,  and  they  shall  come  forth 
with  songs  of  everlasting  joy,  to  be  crowned  at  the  hands  of  the  chil- 
dren of  Ephraim.  These  are  only  a  few  of  the  glorious  things  that 
are  before  us.  It  is  for  that  purpose  we  are  assembled  here.  Let  us 
look  upon  the  means  which  God  has  given  us  as  only  a  means  to  an  end, 
and  not  the  end'  itself. 

OUR  POSITION,  STATION  AND  PRIVILEGE 

This  is  our  station ;  this  is  our  position.  These  are  our  privileges ; 
and  oh !  when  we  look  upon  them  in  all  their  glory,  how  mean,  how 
small,  and  how  petty  it  seems  to  me  for  us  to  get  down  and  quarrel  with 
each  other,  and  backbite,  and  slander,  and  fight  over  the  petty  little 
things,  and  forget  the  glorious  purposes  God  had  in  bringing  us  here. 

Now,  the  Lord  keep  our  hearts  upon  his  purpose  and  his  mission 
for  us,  that  we  may  be  true  unto  him,  and  fail  not  to  come  unto  the 
standard  of  perfection  necessary  to  become  the  light  of  the  world,  the 
redeemers  upon  Mount  Zion  for  Israel,  the  salt  of  the  earth,  the  city 
set  upon  a  hill,  whose  light  shall  shine  forth  to  all  men,  and  attract 
the  good  and  the  great  from  all  nations,  who  shall  come  and  say :  "Let 
us  go  up  unto  the  mountain  of  the  house  of  the  God  of  Jacob,"  for  the 
light  to  the  Gentiles  is  manifest,  "and  learn  of  her  ways  and  walk  in 
her  paths,"  and  become  so  perfect  that  we  shall  attract  the  attention 
of  the  angels  of  heaven ;  and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  shall  come  again 
to  live  upon  the  earth  among  men,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

At  the  close  of  Elder  Ballard's  sermon,  President  Grant  proposed 
that  out  of  love  and  respect  to  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith,  all  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  would  like  to  arise  and  sing,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God, 
for  a  prophet."    This  was  done  with  great  spirit. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  had  no  idea  of  saying  anything  more  at  this  conference,  but 
after  listening  to  the  very  splendid  remarks  of  Elder  Ballard,  I  de- 
sire to  read  a  revelation  given  a  year  before  the  Church  was  organ- 
ized. 

REVELATION   TO   HYRUM   SMITH   AND   COMMENTS  THEREON 

This  revelation,  among  other  things,  says  that  it  is  not  only  for 
the  man  to  whom  it  was  given — Hyrum  Smith,  who  was  martyred 
with  his  brother,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith — but  that  it  is  to  all  of 
us,  and  therefore  I  desire  to  read  it : 

A  great  and  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  among  the  chil- 
dren of  men. 

Behold,  I  am  God,  and  give  heed  to  my  word,  which  is  quick  and 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


powerful,  sharper  than  a  two-edged  sword,  to  the  dividing  asunder  of  both 
joints  and  marrow;  therefore  give  heed  unto  my  words. 

Behold  the  field  is  white  already  to  harvest,  therefore  whoso  de- 
sireth  to  reap,  let  him  thrust  in  his  sickle  with  his  might,  and  reap  while 
the  day  lasts,  that  he  may  treasure  up  for  his  soul  everlasting  salvation 
in  the  kingdom  of  God; 

Yea,  whosoever  will  thrust  in  his  sickle  and  reap,  the  same  is  called 
of  God; 

Therefore,  if  you  will  ask  of  me  you  shall  receive;  if  you  will  knock 
it  shall  be  opened  unto  you. 

I  will  say  that  Hryum  Smith  and  many  other  men  came  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  believing  that  he  was  in  very  deed  a  prophet,  believ- 
ing that  God  had  chosen  him  to  organize  again  the  Church  of  Christ 
upon  the  earth,  they  came  to  him  and  asked :  "What  does  the  Lord 
desire  at  our  hands?"  And  many  of  the  revelations  in  the  fore-part 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  were  given,  before  the  organization 
of  the  Church,  to  individuals,  in  answer  to  this  inquiry  that  they  made 
of  the  prophet.  This  section  I  am  reading  is  one  of  those  revela- 
tions : 

Therefore,  if  you  will  ask  of  me  you  shall  receive;  if  you  will  knock 
it  shall  be  opened  unto  you. 

Now,  as  you  have  asked,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  keep  my  command- 
ments. 

THE  KEY-NOTE  OF  THIS  CONFERENCE 

Remember,  ye  Latter-day  Saints,  that  that  is  the  key-note  of  this 
conference. 

Keep  my  commandments,  and  seek  to  bring  forth  and  establish  the 
cause  of  Zion, 

Seek  not  for  riches,  but  for  wisdom,  and  behold,  the  mysteries  of 
God  shall  be  unfolded  unto  you,  and  then  shall  you  be  made  rich.  Behold, 
he  that  hath  eternal  life  is  rich. 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  even  as  you  desire  of  me,  so  it  shall 
be  done  unto  you;  and  if  you  desire,  you  shall  be  the  means  of  doing 
much  good  in  this  generation. 

TRIBUTE  TO  HYRUM  SMITH 

No  mortal  man  who  ever  lived  in  this  Church  desired  more  to 
do  good  than  did  Hyrum  Smith,  the  patriarch.  I  have  it  from  the 
lips  of  my  own  sainted  mother,  that  of  all  the  men  she  was  acquainted 
with  in  her  girlhood  days  in  Nauvoo,  she  admired  Hyrum  Smith 
most  for  his  absolute  integrity  and  devotion  to  God,  and  his  loyalty 
to  the  prophet  of  God.  And  God  honored  that  man  by  allowing  to 
come  from  his  loins  the  late  beloved  President  Joseph  F.  Smith. 

The  devil,  through  his  emissaries,  thought  to  destroy  this  Church 
by  having  them  kill  the  prophet  and  the  patriarch ;  but  the  son '  of 
the  patriarch  lived  to  be  the  Prophet  of  the  living  God,  and  his  great- 
grandson  sits  here  today  as  the  Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church. 
Nothing  can  be  done  by  the  people  of  the  world  to  retard  the  progress 
of  the  work  of  God.    Murder  and  all  that  has  been  done  against  the 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


85 


Latter-day  Saints  has  had  no  effect  whatever.  The  work  of  God 
has  gone  steadily  on  from  the  day  that  the  Church  was  organized 
with  only  six  members. 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  even  as  you  desire  of  me,  so  it  shall 
be  done  unto  you;  and  if  you  desire,  you  shall  be  the  means  of  doing 
much  good  in  this  generation. 

Say  nothing  but  repentance  unto  this  generation:  keep  my  com- 
mandments, and  assist  to  bring  forth  my  work,  according  to  my  com- 
mandments, and  you  shall  be  blessed.    *    *  * 

Behold  thou  hast  a  gift,  or  thou  shalt  have  a  gift  if  thou  wilt  desire 
of  me  in  faith,  with  an  honest  heart,  believing  in  the  power  of  Jesus  Christ, 
or  in  my  power  which  speaketh  unto  thee; 

For,  behold,  it  is  I  that  speak;  behold,  I  am  the  light  which  shineth 
in  darkness,  and  by  my  power  I  give  these  words  unto  thee. 

And  now,  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  put  your  trust  in  that  Spirit 
which  leadeth  to  do  good;  yea,  to  do  justly,  to  walk  humbly,  to  judge 
righteously,  and  this  is  my  Spirit. 

No  man  in  all  the  Church  put  his  trust  in  that  Spirit  more  per- 
fectly than  did  Hyrum  Smith,  or  than  did  his  son,  the  late  prophet, 
Joseph  F.  Smith. 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  I  will  impart  unto  you  of  my  Spirit; 
which  shall  enlighten  your  mind,  which  shall  fill  your  soul  with  joy. 

And  then  shall  ye  know,  or  by  this  shall  you  know  all  things  whatso- 
ever you  desire  of  me,  which  are  pertaining  unto  things  of  righteousness, 
in  faith  believing  in  me  that  you  shall  receive. 

Behold,  I  command  you,  that  you  need  not  suppose  that  you  are 
called  to  preach  until  you  are  called. 

Remember,  the  Church  was  not  yet  organized. 

Wait  a  little  longer,  until  you  shall  have  my  word,  my  rock,  my  church, 
and  my  gospel,  that  you  may  know  of  a  surety  my  doctrine; 

And  then  behold,  according  to  your  desires,  yea,  even  according  to 
your  faith,  shall  it  be  done  unto  you.    *    *  * 

Keep  my  commandments,  hold  your  peace,  appeal  unto  my  Spirit. 

Yea,  cleave  unto  me  with  all  your  heart,  that  you  may  assist  in  bring- 
ing to  light  those  things  of  which  have  been  spoken;  yea,  the  translation 
of  my  work;  be  patient  until  you  shall  accomplish  it. 

The  work  of  the  translation  of  the  inspired  record,  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  was  in  progress  at  the  time  of  the  giving  of  this  revela- 
tion. "Behold,  this  is  your  work,"  and  it  is  the  work  of  all  the  Latter- 
day  Saints : 

Behold,  this  is  your  work,  to  keep  my  commandments,  yea,  with  all 
your  might,  mind,  and  strength; 

Seek  not  to  declare  my  word,  but  first  seek  to  obtain  my  word,  and 
then  shall  your  tongue  be  loosed;  then,  if  you  desire,  you  shall  have  my 
Spirit  and  my  word,  yea  the  power  of  God  unto  the  convincing  of  men; 

But  now  hold  your  peace,  study  my  word  which  hath  gone  forth 
among  the  children  of  men,  and  also  study  my  word  which  shall  come 
forth  among  the  children  of  men,  or  that  which  is  now  translating,  yea, 
until  you  have  obtained  all  which  I  shall  grant  unto  the  children  of  men 
in  this  generation,  and  then  shall  all  things  be  added  thereunto. 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Behold,  thou  art  Hyrum,  my  son,  seek  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  all 
things  shall  be  added  according  to  that  which  is  just. 
Build  upon  my  rock,  which  is  my  gospel; 

Deny  not  the  Spirit  of  revelation,  nor  the  Spirit  of  prophecy,  for  woe 
unto  him  that  denieth  these  things; 

Therefore,  treasure  up  in  your  heart  until  the  time  which  is  in  my 
wisdom  that  you  shall  go  forth. 

Behold,  I  speak  unto  all  who  have  good  desires,  and  have  thrust  in 
their  sickle  to  reap.    (Doctrine  and  Covenants  Sees.  6  and  11.) 

THE  SAINTS  EXPECTED  TO   STUDY  THIS  REVELATION 

Read  this  revelation,  ye  Latter-day  Saints,  over  and  over  again, 
because  it  applies  to  you ;  and  time  and  time  again  you  will  find  that 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who  gave  this  revelation,  repeats  himself  in 
saying:  "Keep  my  commandments." 

Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God.  I  am  the  life  and  the 
light  of  the  world. 

I  am  the  same  who  came  unto  my  own  and  my  own  received  me  not; 

But  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  that  as  many  as  receive  me,  to  them  ■ 
will  I  give  power  to  become  the  sons  of  God,  even  to  them  that  believe  on 
my  name.  Amen. 

We  will  now  ask  Brother  Joseph  W.  McMurrin  to  speak  to  us 
briefly.  Brother  McMurrin  has  proclaimed  this  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  on  three  separate  and  distinct  missions  in  Europe.  He  is  now 
proclaiming  the  gospel  as  the  President  of  the  California  mission. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  California  Mission) 

My  heart  has  been  made  exceedingly  glad,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, in  listening  to  the  doctrines  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
as  they  have  been  expounded  by  the  brethren  of  the  presiding  author- 
ities of  the  Church  who  have  been  called  upon,  during  the  sessions  of 
this  conference,  to  bear  record  concerning  the  truth.  I  thank  the  Lord, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  have  the  opportunity  of  being  present 
in  this  great  gathering,  and  I  am  glad  in  my  soul  for  the  joy  that  is  in 
my  heart  in  connection  with  the  wonderful  purposes  of  Almighty  God 
as  they  are  being  wrought  out  among  the  inhabitants  of  the  earthj  and 
among  the  people  also  who  have  given  allegiance  to  the  work  of  the 
Lord,  and  who  have  come  up  from  the  east  and  from  the  west,  from 
the  north  and  from  the  south,  in  response  to  the  call  that  has  been 
made  by  the  Redeemer  of  the  world  through  the  glorious  gospel  that 
has  been  restored  in  this  last  dispensation. 

It  has  already  been  stated,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  it  is  my 
good  fortune  at  the  present  time  to  be  laboring  in  the  missionary  field, 
in  the  California  mission.  The  California  mission  covers  the  state 
of  California,  and  portions  of  the  state  of  Nevada,  and  portions  of 
the  state  of  Arizona.  We  have  about  thirty  branches  of  the  Church 
in  these  three  states.  The  great  bulk  of  the  Church  population  resides 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 


87 


in  the  state  of  California.  California  is  not  made  up  of  people  who 
are  seeking,  to  any  very  great  degree,  to  find  the  message  of  the 
everlasting  gospel.  There  are,  however,  many  very  good  men  and 
women  to  be  found  in  the  state.  Sometimes  when  our  missionaries  are 
attending  to  their  missionary  labors,  going  from  home  to  home,  seek- 
ing opportunity  to  present  the  precious  principles  of  the  gospel,  they 
are  asked:  "Why  are  you  coming  here?  We  do  not  need  your  ser- 
vices. We  have  an  abundance  of  churches,  many  educated  ministers, 
and  there  is  no  room  or  place  for  you  here.  Why  do  you  not  go  with 
the  message  that  you  say  you  have,  to  the  people  who  are  in  darkness, 
to  the  heathen  nations  of  the  world?"  We  are  striving  to  impress 
upon  the  minds  of  men  and  women  with  whom  we  come  in  contact, 
that  the  gospel  message,  as  it  has  been  revealed  in  this  dispensation, 
is  just  as  it  has  been  declared  to  be  by  inspired  men  who,  lit  up  by  di- 
vine inspiration,  have  said  that  the  gospel  should  be  preached  in  all  the 
world,  to  every  nation,  and  to  every  kindred,  to  every  tongue  and  to 
every  people.  We  are  under  obligation  not  only  to  carry  the  gospel 
to  those  who  live  in  heathen  nations,  but  we  are  under  like  obligation 
to  carry  the  gospel  to  every  nation  and  to  every  people  upon  the  face 
of  the  whole  earth. 

We  are  trying  to  impress  upon  the  missionaries,  the  young  men 
and  young  women  who  have  been  appointed  from  time  to  time,  to 
take  up  their  ministry  in  the  California  mission,  that  they  are  under  a 
very  serious  responsibility,  and  that  it  is  their  right  to  know  and  feel 
that  they  have  been  called,  not  by  bishops,  not  by  presidents,  not  by 
apostles,  to  be  ministers  of  salvation,  but  that  they  have  been  called  by 
the  Lord  God  of  heaven  to  represent  him  in  the  preaching  of  the  gospel 
in  the  California  mission,  and  that  they  should  dedicate  to  the  Lord 
our  God,  their  time  and  means  and  their  talents.  We  teach  them  that 
they  should  seek  unto  our  Father  in  heaven,  by  right  living,  and  by 
humble  and  secret  prayer,  that  they  may  have  the  companionship  of 
that  Spirit  that  can  take  of  the  things  of  the  Father  and  reveal  them 
unto  men.  We  are  trying  to  impress  upon  their  minds  that  the  gospel 
of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world  cannot  be  taught  acceptably  to  our 
Father  in  heaven  in  the  enticing  words  of  man's  wisdom,  but  that 
it  must  be  taught  and  can  only  be  taught  satisfactorily  to  the  Lord, 
in  the  power  and  demonstration  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  We  are  trying  to 
tell  men  and  women  everywhere,  who  are  not  of  our  faith,  that  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  that  he  is  the  author 
of  salvation,  and  the  only  source  of  divine  authority,  and  that  in  ful- 
filment of  the  promises  that  have  been  made  by  holy  prophets  in  all 
past  dispensations,  the  divine  authority  essential  to  the  preaching  of 
the  gospel  and  administering  in  its  holy  ordinances  has  again  been 
revealed  by  the  Lord  our  God  in  this  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness 
of  times. 

We  are  trying  to  bear  record  of  the  truth,  but  we  are  not  build- 
ing up  men.   We  are  in  no  way  trying  to  exalt  the  names  of  men,  but 


■ 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

we  are  trying  to  advance  and  magnify  the  gospel  of  the  Redeemer, 
which  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  As  we  bear  this  record  con- 
cerning the  wonderful  things  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  his  restored 
gospel,  we  also  feel  that  we  are  under  obligation,  because  of  the 
commandment  of  God,  to  bear  record  to  the  wonderful  mission  of  the 
prophet  and  disciple  and  apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Joseph 
.  Smith,  for  we  feel  and  know  in  our  hearts  that  God  has  placed  this  re- 
sponsibility upon  us,  and  that  we  must  tell  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth, 
wherever  our  lot  may  be  cast,  that  the  Lord  Almighty  has  chosen  as  his 
instrument,  Joseph  Smith,  to  reintroduce  in  the  latter  time,  the  precious 
principles  of  the  everlasting  gospel. 

We  are  trying  to  impress  upon  men  that  they  cannot  be  saved  by 
simply  declaring  with  their  lips  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
but  that  they  must  do,  as  he  has  taught,  as  has  been  advocated  in  this 
conference.  Men  must  not  only  be  hearers  of  the  word,  but  they  must 
be  doers  also.  We  are  trying  to  impress  upon  men  the  necessity  of 
repentance,  to  turn  away  from  the  evils  that  are  in  the  world,  and  from 
all  improper  conduct  and  give  their  hearts  and  their  time  and  their 
attention  to  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  repenting  in  very  deed  of  their 
sins,  but  turning  away  from  all  sinful  conduct.  We  are  trying  to  im- 
press upon  men  the  importance  of  the  principle  of  baptism,  the  prin- 
ciple that  has  been  given  by  the  Lord  our  God  whereby  men  can 
receive  a  remission  of  their  sins.  Baptism,  to  the  world,  is  a  mystery. 
Most  men  are  unable  to  conceive  the  necessity  or  the  advantage  of 
this  great  principle  that  has  been  given  of  God  whereby  men  may  be 
made  members  of  the  Church  of  Christ,  and  receive  a  remission  of 
theiir  sins,  and  by  this  act  of  humble  obedience  be  fitted  to  enter  into 
the  kingdom  of  God.  We  are  trying  to  bear  record  to  our  father's  chil- 
dren that  they  can  only  comprehend  and  understand  the  message  of  the 
everlasting  gospel  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  that  they  can 
only  be  in  possession  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  yielding  obedience  to  the 
principles  that  have  been  revealed.  The  companionship  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  can  only  be  received  by  the  laying  on  of  hands.  We  are  try- 
ing to  bear  record  to  the  people  that  men  cannot  call  themselves 
to  preach  the  gospel,  but  that  they  must  be  called  by  the  Almighty ;  they 
cannot  assume  to  take  this  authority  unto  themselves,  but  they  must 
be  ordained  by  revelation,  and  by  prophecy,  and  by  the  laying  on  of 
hands. 

I  am  glad  to  say  God  fills  our  souls  with  joy  and  peace  and  con- 
tentment as  we  strive  to  preach  these  principles  among  the  people, 
and  he  increases  upon  us,  testimony,  understanding  and  knowledge 
concerning  his  wonderful  purposes.  I  am  glad  to  bring  up  to  you 
fathers  and  mothers  assembled  in  this  conference  the  glad  news  that 
your  sons  and  daughters  believe  the  message  of  the  everlasting  gospel, 
and  that  they  are  consecrating  their  time  and  their  lives  to  advocate 
the  principles  of  salvation,  and'  to  reach  the  hearts  of  men  with  the 
message  that  has  been  committed  into  their  hands. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN  89 

I  would  that  men  who  are  in  authority  and  who  select  missionaries 
and  recommend  them  to  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  would  sense 
more  fully  the  great  responsibility  that  rests  upon  the  people  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  in  the  preaching  of  the  gospel,  and  that  they  would 
not  only  call  the  boys  and  girls — thank  God  for  all  of  these  young  men 
and  women — but  oh,  that  there  might  be  called  into  the  mission  field 
men  of  experience,  thirty  or  forty  years  of  age,  men  who  have  had 
experience  in  teaching  the  gospel,  that  they  might  be  a  help  and  a 
succor,  and  a  sustaining  power  to  the  youth  of  Israel  who  respond  so 
generally  and  so  cheerfully  to  these  missionary  appointments. 

I  am  glad  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  work  of  God. 
I  believe  in  it  from  the  crown  of  my  head  to  the  soles  of  my  feet.  I 
have  confidence  that  all  the  promises  of  the  Lord  our  God  will  be 
fulfiHed,  no  matter  how  marvelous  they  may  appear,  or  how  past 
possibility  they  may  seem  in  the  minds  of  men.  They  will  all  be 
brought  to  pass.  God  has  so  decreed  and  he  has  the  power  to  fulfil 
his  decrees  and  his  promises.  God  help  us  to  believe  the  promises  that 
have  been  made  and  to  yield  obedience  to  the  commandments  of  God, 
and  may  we  be  under  the  constant  guidance  of  that  kind,  forgiving, 
glorious  Spirit  that  belongs  to  the  gospel  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
I  humbly  pray,  through  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

No  more  diligent,  faithful,  inspiring  mission  president  have  I 
ever  been  associated  with  than  Elder  Serge  F.  Ballif,  while  presid- 
ing over  the  Swiss  and  German  mission.  He  has  been  called  to  go 
back  again  to  that  country.  The  gospel  found  his  father  there  and 
he  gave  up  a  place  as  a  preacher,  I  understand,  to  come  here  and 
labor  for  his  livelihood  in  this  land  as  a  Latter-day  Saint.  We  will 
now  hear  from  the  new  president  of  the  Swiss  and  German  mission, 
Elder  Serge  F.  Ballif. 


ELDER  SERGE  F.  BALLIF 

(Newly  appointed  President  of  the  Swiss  and  German  Mission) 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters:  I  say  "beloved  brethren  and 
sisters"  because  we  are  all  here  born  into  the  kingdom  of  God 
through  baptism,  by  faith  and  by  a  knowledge  which  we  have  re- 
ceived from  heaven  of  this  great  work  that  has  been  restored  in  our 
day,  and  therefore  I  say,  we  are  all  brothers  and  sisters,  children  of 
our  heavenly  Father.  I  am  grateful  from  the  very  bottom  of  my 
heart  that  I  have  a  standing  in  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God. 
I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  knowledge  of  the  gospel  which  I  have  re- 
ceived, and  I  know  beyond  all  question  of  doubt  that  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  is  true. 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


As  intimated  by  President  Grant,  I  have  spent  a  great  deal  of 
time  in  the  mission  field.  Since  1890,  I  have  devoted  a  great  part 
of  my  time  to  missionary  work.  I  have  traveled  in  all  the  provinces 
of  Germany,  of  Austria,  Hungary,  Switzerland  and  France.  I  have 
borne  my  testimony  before  the  authorities  of  those  lands ;  I  have 
borne  my  testimony  before  kings ;  and  I  can  say  to  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  1 
know  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  to  all  those  who  hear 
and  render  obedience  unto  its  principles. 

I  feel  to  say  this  morning,  as  the  Savior  said  when  he  was  talking 
to  his  people  and  one  of  his  servants  said : 

Thy  mother  and  thy  brethren  stand  without,  desiring  to  speak  with 
thee. 

But  he  answered  and  said  unto  him  that  told  him,  Who  is  my 
mother?  and  who  are  my  brethren? 

And  he  stretched  forth  his  hand  toward  his  disciples,  and  said,  Be- 
hold my  mother  and  my  brethren! 

For  whosoever  shall  do  the  will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven 
the  same  is  my  brother,  and  sister,  and  mother. 

I  feel  today  that  those  who  are  keeping  the  commandments  of 
God,  they  are  my  brethren,  they  are  my  sisters  in  very  deed. 

While  I  was  laboring  in  my  last  mission,  I  never  will  forget 
the  time  when  a  great  conference  was  called  in  Berne,  the  capital 
of  Switzerland,  and  the  president  of  this  Church — the  prophet,  seer 
and  revelator,  Joseph  F.  Smith — met  with  us  in  that  confer- 
ence. In  speaking  to  that  people,  he  held  out  his  hand  and  said : 
"The  time  will  come  when  this  land  will  be  dotted  with  temples,  where 
you  can  go  and  redeem  your  dead."  I  thank  God  from  the  bottom 
of  my  heart  that  I  have  been  called  again  to  go  into  that  land,  I 
want  to  do  my  mite  to  bring  about  the  fulfilment  of  the  prophecy  by 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith  in  the  capital  of  Switzerland.  I  believe 
it  with  all  my  heart,  that  soon  the  time  will  come  when  there  will 
be  temples  erected  in  that  land  of  Switzerland,  and  I  also  believe, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  there  is  no  greater  mission  in  all  the 
world  today  than  the  mission  of  preaching  the  gospel  in  continental 
Europe.  I  have  traveled  in  all  the  provinces  of  Germany.  I  know 
the  meek  and  lowly  of  Germany ;  and  notwithstanding  the  great 
troubles,  and  the  great  bloodshed  in  those  lands,  during  the  last  few 
years,  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  you  will  find  the  blood  of  Israel 
among  the  people  in  those  provinces.  I  say  that  there  will  be  a  great 
and  a  mighty  work  accomplished  in  that  land.  I  wish  to  say,  also, 
that  I  go  to  Germany  to  represent  you,  and  I  want  to  represent  you 
honorably  and  nobly.  In  turn,  I  want  you,  as  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
to  support  me  in  that  land,  that  I  may  be  faithful,  that  I  may  keep 
the  commandments  of  God,  that  I  may  set  an  example  that  will  be 
worthy  of  emulation;  that  I  can  say  to  those  people:  "The  people  of 
Utah  are  serving  God  and  keeping  his  commandments."  That  is 
the  greatest  testimony  that  I  can  give.    I  wish  to  say  to  that  people 


ELDER  SERGE  F.  BALLIF 


91 


lhat  we  are  observing  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  the  word  of  God,  that 
we  are  paying  our  tithes  and  our  offerings.  I  want  to  say  to  them 
that  we  are  laboring  in  the  temples  of  God  to  redeem  our  dead.  I 
want  to  say  to  those  people  that  there  is  love  and  harmony  among 
the  Latter-day  Saints;  that  they  are  a  unit;  that  they  support,  with 
all  their  might,  mind  and  strength,  the  authorities  of  this  Church, 
from  the  head  to  the  very  last  ordained  member;  that  the  spirit  of 
love,  the  spirit  of  peace,  the  spirit  of  harmony  is  found  among  the 
Saints  in  Zion,  and  not  the  spirit  of  criticism  or  fault-finding,  but 
that  they  are  a  united  people.  We  are  all  laboring  for  one  common 
purpose,  and  that  is  to  establish  the  Kingdom  of  God,  here  upon  the 
earth. 

One  more  thing  I  want  to  say.  When  the  Savior  was  preaching 
and  ministering  among  his  people,  the  sick  were  healed,  the  lame 
walked,  the  blind  were  made  to  see  under  his  hands ;  and  when  he 
called  his  twelve  apostles  he  set  them  apart  and  ordained  them ;  he 
gave  them  power  to  heal  the  sick  and  to  accomplish  the  mission  that 
he  had  begun;  and  he  said:  "I  send  you  out  without  money,  with- 
out price.  Freely  you  have  received,  freely  you  shall  impart."  When 
you  send  your  young  men  into  the  mission  field,  I  want  to  ask  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  instil  into  their  souls  the  principles  of 
the  gospel,  which  will  be  worth  more  to  them  than  unlimited  means; 
and  by  so  doing  you  will  help  to  build  them  up  in  their  testimonies 
and  knowledge,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
and  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God.  I  do  not  care  whether 
they  have  a  dollar  in  their  pockets  or  not;  if  they  have  only  thac 
spirit  burning  in  their  bosom,  God  will  open  the  way  before  them. 
There  will  be  friends  raised  up  to  them ;  they  will  accomplish  a  great 
and  a  mighty  work,  and  the  people  in  those  lands  will  receive  them 
with  open  arms.  While,  on  the  other  hand,  if  you  send  them  out) 
there  with  their  pockets  filled  with  money,  you  know  what  they  will 
do;  I  do  not  need  to  tell  you.  With  all  my  soul  I  believe  in  preach- 
ing the  gospel  without  money  and  without  price.  The  laborer  is 
worthy  of  his  hire,  and  I  am  willing  to  put  my  trust  in  the  Lord.  I 
will  promise  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  never  will  ask  one 
of  your  boys,  in  the  mission  field,  to  do  one  thing  that  I  will  not  do 
myself,  with  them,  with  the  help  of  the  Lord.  God  bless  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  May  we  be  united  in  keeping  his  commandments  is  my  prayer, 
and  I  ask  it,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  beautiful  anthem  composed 
by  Evan  Stephens,  "Let  the  mountains  shout  for  joy." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Edward  H.  Snow,  President 
of  the  St.  George  Stake  of  Zion. 

The  congregation  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

FIRST  OVERFLOW  MEETING 


An  overflow  meeting  of  the  conference  was  held  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  at  10  o'clock  Sunday  morning,  October  10,  presided  over  by  El- 
der Geo.  F.  Richards,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  The  singing 
and  music  were  furnished  by  the  Cottonwood  Stake  chdir  under  the  di- 
rection of  Elder  W.  F.  Robinson,  Miss  Bernnetta  Lindsey,  accompa- 
nist. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Redeemer  of  Israel,  our  only 
delight." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Arthur  F.  Barnes  of  the  Salt  Lake 
stake  High  Council. 

The  choir  sang,  "Dream  of  Paradise,"  solo  by  Elder  Manassa 
Smith. 

ELDER  NEPHI  JENSEN 

(President  of  the  Canadian  Mission) 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  am  deeply  thankful  for  this  opportun- 
ity of  coming  to  Zion  to  worship  our  God  with  you.  I  am  thankful 
for  the  opportunity  of  listening  to  the  sweet  singing  of  the  choir  this 
morning.  In  my  heart  I  pray  that  the  sweet  spirit  which  has  actu- 
ated the  singers  will  actuate  rqe  in  what  I  shall  say  to  you.  I  want 
to  say  the  thing  that  ought  to  be  said ;  I  want  to  speak  the  words  that 
will  help  you  and  help  me  to  a  better  and  deeper  appreciation  of  the 
truth  which  God  has  revealed  to  us  in  the  day  and  time  in  which  we 
live,  for  I  do  know  in  my  heart  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  true, 
I  know  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation ;  and  the  dearest  desire 
of  my  heart,  at  this  time,  is  to  impress  the  children  of  men  with  the 
truthfulness  of  the  gospel  which  has  come  to  us  as  our  greatest 
heritage-. 

My  heart  has  often  been  touched  when  I  have  been  made  aware 
of  the  bad  name  which  our  people  have  been  given  in  the  world.  Just 
a  few  weeks  ago,  one  of  our  lady  missionaries  in  Canada  went  to  a 
home  in  Toronto  with  the  view  of  offering  to  the  people  of  that  home 
the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  When  she  made  known  to  the  folks  that  she 
was  a  "Mormon,"  the  lady  of  the  house  sneered  at  her  and  scorned 
her,  and  said,  "I  would  rather  feed  a  criminal  than  feed  a  'Mormon.'  " 

When  that  young  girl  came  to  the  mission  home,  and  made  a  re- 
port of  her  experience,  I  was  deeply  touched  in  my  heart,  and  I  re- 
solved that  I  would  use  the  humble  talent  given  to  me  in  writing  and 
in  speaking  the  defense  of  the  best  people  in  the  world.  And  since 
coming  home  I  have  been  deeply  grieved  to  find  that,  even  here,  some 
of  us  so  far  forget  ourselves  as  to  be  guilty  of  the  crime  which  has  been 
responsible  for  placing  upon  the  fair  brow  of  our  religion  the  hideous 


ELDER  NEPHI  JENSEN 


93 


mask ;  I  refer  to  the  crime  of  slander.  Our  people  have  suffered  as  no 
people  have  suffered  since  the  days  of  the  ancient  Saints  because  of 
the  crime  of  slander,  and  I  do  hope  and  pray  that  this  sin  shall  not 
creep  in  among  us.  I  do  hope  and  pray  that  we  will  remember  the 
noble  words  of  the  great  Shakespeare :  "Who  steals  my  purse,  steals 
trash ;  'twas  mine,  tis  his,  and  has  been  slave  to  thousands ;  but  he 
that  filches  from  me  my  good  name,  robs  me  of  that  which  not 
enriches  him,  but  makes  me  poor  indeed."  These  are  noble  words. 
They  are  as  true  as  anything  that  ever  was  written,  and  I  have  taken 
pleasure  in  quoting  these  words  in  the  mission  in  which  I  work, 
and  I  commend  them  to  Israel  at  home.  When  I  have  met  the  sland- 
erers of  our  people  and  our  faith,  I  have  often  said  I  would  rather  be 
a  ghoul,  a  graverobber,  and  scratch  around  among  dead  bones  and 
steal  grave  clothes  than  rob  people  of  their  good  name.  I  want  to 
tell  you  that  there  is  nothing  so  small,  so  ignoble  as  the  disposition 
to  want  to  magnify  other  men's  faults.  There  is  nothing  that  so 
soon  brands  a  person  as  a  small  and  ignoble  soul  as  the  desire  to  make 
out  other  people  bad. 

A  few  evenings  ago  I  spoke  in  the  open  air  near  the  city  hall 
in  the  great  city  of  Toronto.  While  I  was  speaking,  a  man  in  the 
crowd  who  had  a  grudge  against  the  "Mormons,"  and  especially 
against  that  grand  and  great  man  Brigham  Young,  shouted  out  while 
I  was  speaking,  "What  about  Brigham  Young?' 

My  feathers  were  up  immediately,  and  I  said,  Brigham  Young 
was  a  grand  man;  he  redeemed  a  wilderness,  he  built  an  empire,  and 
endowed  colleges  and  universities,  and  if  he  should  be  talking  to  us 
today,  to  the  little  souls  who  are  barking  at  his  heels,  he  would  be  apt 
to  say,  "I  don't  mind  being  swallowed  by  a  whale,  but  I  do  hate  to 
be  nibbled  to  death  by  minnows.'  And  after  all  is  said,  it  is  only 
small  dogs  that  bark  at  the  heels  of  our  people  in  the  hope  of  making 
them  bad. 

I  was  deeply  touched  last  night  in  meeting  with  a  friend  who,  im- 
mediately upon  my  mention  of  some  prominent  men  in  this  city  who 
have  given  their  lives  to  the  service  of  God  and  the  uplift  of  this  peo- 
ple, spoke  in  disparagement  of  those  men.  Every  time  we  do  that 
sort  of  thing  we  condemn  ourselves,  for  the  Apostle  Paul,  in  his  letter 
to  the  Romans,  said:  "Therefore,  thou  art  inexcusable,  O  man,  who- 
soever thou  art  that  judgest,  for  wherein  thou  judgest  another,  thou 
condemnest  thyself ;  for  thou  that  judgest  doest  the  same  things."  I 
commend  to  you  these  inspired  words  of  the  Apostle  Paul,  and  I  com- 
mend to  you  also  a  motto  which  I  saw  in  Chicago  recently  upon  a 
great  bill  board :  "Throw  away  your  hammer  and  get  a  horn.  Knock- 
ers never  did  themselves  or  anybody  else  any  good." 

Now  I  feel  that  I  have  talked  as  long  as  I  ought  to.  I  want  to  say 
that  I  rejoice  with  all  my  heart  in  the  knowledge  I  have  of  the  di- 
vinity of  this  work.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God, 
and  I  know  that  Heber  J.  Grant  is  a  prophet  of  God,  as  I  know 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


that  light  is  light.  So  I  know  that  great  man  is  God's  prophet,  for  I 
know  that  during  the  last  year,  the  promise  which  he  sealed  upon  my 
head,  when  he  set  me  apart  to  labor  in  the  Canadian  mission,  has 
come  true ;  and  I  testify  to  you  that  God  Almighty  is  with  that  man, 
and  does  sustain  him  and  uphold  him  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

(President  of  the  Mexican  Mission) 

I  am  very  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  have  the 
privilege  of  attending  this  conference.  I  am  thankful  to  the  Lord  that 
we  have  inspired  men  to  teach  us  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  and  I 
am  more  grateful  than  I  could  possibly  express  for  the  gospel,  that 
has  been  restored  to  us  in  these  days  in  which  we  live.  I  am  thankful 
to  the  Lord  for  the  gifts  and  the  blessings  of  it. 

I  am  thankful  to  the  Lord  that  I  have  a  testimony  of  the  truthful- 
ness of  the  gospel,  and  that  the  power  of  the  Priesthood  is  upon  the 
earth  today ;  and  I  know  as  I  know  that  I  live  that  the  men  who  stand 
today  at  the  head  of  the  Church  are  men  endowed  with  the  power  of 
the  Lord,  and  they  are  in  very  deed  prophets,  seers  and  revelators  un- 
to the  people. 

I  should  like  to  read  to  you  the  words  of  the  Savior,  for  we  be- 
lieve that  the  gospel  restored  to  us  is  none  other  than  that  set  up  by 
him  when  he  ministered  among  men  here  upon  the  earth,  and  I  believe 
that  the  same  powers  and  the  same  gifts  and  the  same  blessings  follow 
those  who  believe  and  those  who  minister  in  his  name  and  by  his  power. 
After  he  had  appeared  unto  his  apostles  he  gave  unto  them  a  com- 
mandment, as  follows: 

And  he  said  unto  them,  Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  gospel 
to  every  creature.  He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized  shall  be  saved;  but  he 
that  believeth  not  shall  be  damned.  And  these  signs  shall  follow  them 
that  believe;  in  my  name  they  shall  cast  out  devils;  they  shall  speak  with 
new  tongues;  they  shall  take  up  serpents,  and  if  they  drink  any  deadly  thing, 
it  shall  not  hurt  them;  they  shall  lay  hands  on  the  sick,  and  they  shall 
recover. 

We  as  a  people  stand  up  and  bear  this  message  and  this  testi- 
mony in  the  world.  Your  sons  and  your  daughters,  many  of  them, 
are  today  in  the  world  crying  repentance  to  the  children  of  men,  and 
they  are  fearless  and  are  boldly  declaring  to  the  people  that  if  they 
will  believe  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  have  faith  in  him,  and  repent  of 
their  sins,  and  be  baptized,  they  will  be  saved.  And  just  so  fearlessly 
and  firmly  do  they  declare  that  if  they  will  not  do  so,  they  will  come 
under  the  condemnation  of  the  Lord.  I  believe,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  there  is  no  other  system  in  the  world,  no  other  plan,  no 
gospel  given  to  man  save  that  which  we  have  that  is  "the  power  of  God 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


95 


unto  salvation."  And  we  declare  to  the  people  of  the  world  that  these 
signs  spoken  of  here  by  the  Savior  shall  follow  the  believer,  and  I  am 
a  witness  to  you  today  that  these  things  are  true.  The  people  of  the 
world  among  whom  we  labor  believe  that  the  signs  followed  the  be- 
lievers in  days  of  old.  They  believe  in  the  miracles  recorded  in  the 
Bible,  in  the  New  Testament ;  but  men  are  wont  to  tell  us  in  this  day 
that  we  are  not  living  in  a  day  when  these  powers  are  made  manifest 
unto  the  children  of  men.  They  believe  that  the  apostles  of  old  had 
great  powers,  and  ministered  unto  the  restoring  of  people  to  health 
and  strength;  that  the  blind  were  made  to  see,  the  deaf  to  hear,  the 
dumb  to  speak,  and  the  lame  to  walk ;  but  when  we  tell  them  that  these 
things  are  a  part  of  the  gospel  to  us,  they  are  skeptical,  and  they  do  not 
believe,  and  they  do  not  have  faith  sufficient  to  bring  these  things  down 
upon  their  heads  for  their  blessing.  They  believe  that  the  Lord's  hand 
has  been  shortened  and  his  power  has  been  lessened.  But.I  am  glad 
to  say  that  we  can  witness  before  them  that  these  things  do  exist  in 
the  world  today  through  the  gospel,  as  it  has  been  restored  and  as 
we  enjoy  it.  There  is  an  account  here,  in  the  third  chapter  of  the  Acts 
of  the  Apostles,  of  a  remarkable  healing,  that  I  would  like  to  read  to 
you.  This  is  accepted  and  believed  by  the  people  of  the  world,  I  think, 
because  it  happened  so  long  ago : 

Now  Peter  and  John  went  up  together  into  the  temple  at  the  hour  of 
prayer,  being  the  ninth  hour.  And  a  certain  man  lame  from  his  mother's 
womb  was  carried,  whom  they  laid  daily  at  the  gate  of  the  temple  which 
is  called  Beautiful,  to  ask  alms  of  them  that  entered  into  the  temple;  who 
seeing  Peter  and  John  about  to  go  into  the  temple  asked  an  alms.  And 
Peter,  fastening  his  eyes  upon  him  with  John,  said,  Look  on  us.  And  he 
gave  heed  unto  them,  expecting  to  receive  something  of  them.  Then  Peter 
said,  Silver  and  gold  have  I  none;  but  such  as  I  have  give  I1  thee:  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Nazareth  rise  up  and  walk.  And  he  took  him  by 
the  right  hand,  and  lifted  him  up;  and  immediately  his  feet  and  ankle  bones 
received  strength.  And  he  leaping  up  stood,  and  walked,  and  entered  with 
them  into  the  temple,  walking,  and  leaping,  and  praising  God.  And  they 
knew  that  it  was  he  which  sat  for  alms  at  the  Beautiful  gate  of  the  temple; 
and  they  were  filled  with  wonder  and  amazement  at  that  which  had  hap- 
pened unto  him.  And  as  the  lame  man  which  was  healed  held  Peter  and 
John,  all  the  people  ran  together  unto  them  in  the  porch  that  is  called 
Solomon's,  greatly  wondering.  And  when  Peter  saw  it,  he  answered  unto 
the  people,  Ye  men  of  Israel,  why  marvel  ye  at  this?  or  why  look  ye  so 
earnestly  on  us,  as  though  by  our  own  power  or  holiness  we  had  made 
this  man  to  walk.  The  God  of  Abraham,  and  of  Isaac,  and  of  Jacob,  the 
God  of  our  fathers,  hath  glorified  his  Son  Jesus;  whom  ye  delivered  up  and 
denied  him  in  the  presence  of  Pilate,  when  he  was  determined  to  let  him 
go. 

As  I  say,  the  world  believe  that  this  man,  although  paralyzed, 
was  restored  so  that  he  walked  with  the  brethren  who  had  restored 
him,  by  the  power  of  God.  Now,  do  we  believe — that  is  the  vital  point 
.  for  us  to  consider  that  the  same  power  that  rested  upon  these  men 
exists  in  the  Church  today?  When  our  little  ones  are  sick,  when  sick- 
ness comes  into  the  homes,  can  we  call  upon  the  elders  with  the  same 
faith  as  evidenced  here,  believing  firmly  that  the  prayer  of  faith  will 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


heal  the  sick?  Time  will  not  permit  me  to  speak  long,  but  I  want  to 
bear  you  my  witness,  I  have  seen  many  manifestations  of  the  healing 
power  of  the  Lord. 

I  recall  an  incident  in  far  off  Mexico,  where  a  little  girl  came 
into  the  presence  of  the  elders,  having  suffered  from  smallpox,  and 
as  a  result  of  that  dread  disease,  a  white  film  had  grown  over  one  of 
her  eyes,  causing  total  blindness  in  it.  The  elders  administered  to  her 
and  they  testify  that  when  she  left  them,  the  afflicted  eye  was  as  clear 
as  the  other  one. 

Last  June  I  was  visiting  the  elders  in  the  city  of  Laredo,  Texas. 
On  Sunday  night  we  held  a  meeting  in  a  hall  we  had  rented,  there 
being  about  eighty  in  attendance,  and  as  Elder  Pierce,  the  presiding 
elder,  was  speaking,  I  noticed  a  little  confusion  at  the  door,  and  as  I 
looked  more  closely,  saw  that  it  was  two  persons  supporting  a  man  who 
was  paralyzed,  and  bringing  him  into  the  meeting.  They  placed  him 
on  a  rear  seat,  and  all  listened  attentively  till  the  meeting  was  out. 
Soon  after  the  meeting  was  over,  all  those  who  had  attended  dispersed, 
with  the  exception  of  the  man  referred  to  and  those  who  had  brought 
him.  I  approached  them  and  asked  them  what  it  was  they  wished, 
and  one  of  the  men  who  had  helped  to  bring  in  the  sick  man  replied : 

We  have  heard  the  teachings  of  these  young  elders  and  the  claims  by 
them  made  that  the  signs  shall  follow  the  believers  in  the  gospel  which 
they  teach,  and  we  believe  what  these  elders  have  told  us,  and  that  they 
are  endowed  with  power  to  lay  hands  upon  the  sick  and  they  shall  recover. 
It  is  our  wish  that  you  should  lay  hands  upon  this  paralyzed  man  and  bless 
him. 

The  case  looked  to  be  a  very  hopeless  one  to  me,  but  I  said  to  the 
elders,  "Brethren,  the  Lord  has  said  that  these  things  can  be  done,  so 
let  us  exercise  all  the  faith  we  can." 

So  we  gathered  around  the  man  and  blessed  him,  after  which  we 
put  him  in  his  wagon  and  sent  him  on  his  way  home. 

The  next  night  we  held  meeting  in  the  same  place  with  about  the 
same  sized  crowd  present.  This  night  the  sick  man  was  again  present, 
but  came  before  the  services  started,  and  I  spoke  to  him,  asking  him 
how  he  felt,  to  which  he  replied,  "I  feel  much  better."  I  am  sure  I 
could  not  see  wherein  he  looked  any  better,  but  I  have  no  doubt  that 
even  then  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  was  operating  in  him  and  that  he  did 
really  feel  better.   After  the  meeting  we  again  blessed  him. 

The  next  day  I  left  Laredo,  visiting  in  other  parts  of  the  mission, 
and  it  was  ten  days  before  I  returned  home.  On  reaching  home  and 
looking  over  my  mail,  I  found  a  letter  from  one  of  the  elders  in  Laredo 
who  had  assisted  in  administering  to  the  sick  man.  He  asked,  "Do 
you  remember  the  paralyzed  man  ?  We  have  found  that  he  was  stricken 
a  year  ago,  and  during  that  time  he  has  not  been  able  to  stand  alone 
or  to  walk,  but  today  he  is  walking  all  over." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  that  did  not  happen  2,000  years  ago,  but 
it  was  only  three  months  ago.  Peter  said  to  the  people  who  marveled 
when  they  witnessed  the  wonderful  healing  of  the  paralyzed  man  at 
the  temple  gate  that  it  was  not  by  his  power,  nor  that  of  his  brethren 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


97 


that  it  had  been  done,  but  that  once  again  the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac 
and  Jacob  had  manifested  his  power  through  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ. 
So  it  was  in  the  case  I  have  related.  It  was  not  by  my  power,  nor  by 
the  power  of  my  brethren,  but  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Priesthood 
that  the  paralyzed  man  was  made  well.  God  had  once  again  made 
manifest  his  power  through  the  Holy  Priesthood  and  through  his  Son, 
Jesus  Christ,  in  the  healing  of  that  man.  I  testify  that  this  is  true. 
About  a  month  ago  I  visited  Laredo  again  and  learned  that  the  sick 
man,  subsequent  to  his  healing  had  been  baptized  a  member  of  the 
Church.  He  was  not  so  wholly  cured  that  he  was  able  to  walk  with- 
out a  cane,  but  had  been  walking  with  the  assistance  of  a  cane. 

On  my  last  visit  he  asked  that  we  administer  to  him  again  and 
after  we  had  done  so,  he  said,  "I  feel  that  I  can  now  walk  without 
the  assistance  of  this  cane,"  and  he  left  the  hall  walking  straight  to 
the  door  with  no  assistance,  very  much  to  the  surprise  of  all  those  who 
saw  him. 

I  call  your  attention  to  these  circumstances  in  order  that  our 
faith  may  be  renewed,  and  that  we  may  believe  that  the  Lord  is  the 
same  yesterday,  today  and  forever,  and  that  there  is  no  change,  no 
variation,  in  him,  and  that  his  power  and  blessings  may  be  made  mani- 
fest wherever  the  faith  of  the  people  is  sufficient  to  call  down  these 
blessings  upon  their  heads.  I  testify  that  the  Holy  Priesthood,  by 
which  these  things  are  done,  is  upon  the  earth  today,  just  as  much  as 
it  ever  was. 

I  have  a  clipping  here  from  the  Cosmopolitan  magazine  for  the 
month  of  August,  dealing  with  this  subject  which  seems  to  be  troubling 
the  minds  of  some  people,  and  the  writer  of  this  article  asks,  Why  is  it 
that  we  do  not  find  in  the  religious  world  today,  a  manifestation  of 
the  power  of  God  in  the  healing  of  the  sick  and  in  the  revealing  of  his 
mind  and  will  to  man?  Why  is  it  that  Elijah,  Moses  and  the  prophets 
of  old,  were  able  to  see  beyond  the  veil  and  tell  the  people  what  they 
saw,  and  to  do  other  wonderful  and  mighty  things  which  modern  min- 
isters say  cannot  be  done?  He  asked  the  religious  world  some  very 
perplexing  questions  which  I  think  would  do  them  good  to  contemplate 
seriously.    Speaking  of  the  example  cited,  he  said: 

"While  these  examples  may  not  be  of  gifts  we  should  class  as  psychic, 
they  are  instances  of  power.  If  the  Old  Testament  is  to  be  taken  seriously, 
man  was  once  in  control  of  universal  law  beyond  the  point  at  which  he 
stands  today.  But  as  I  have  stated,  what  was  once  a  law  is  still  a  law,  and 
if  things  were  ever  done,  they  can  be  done  gain.  The  question  naturally 
arises  here  as  to  whether  the  Old  Testament  is  to  be  taken  seriously  or 
not.  If  it  is  not,  then  its  mass  of  evidence  as  to  universal  powers  once  in 
the  possession  of  man  is  worthless.  But  my  appeal  in  the  present  series  of 
articles  is  to  those  who  believe  the  Old  Testament  to  be  the  inspired  word 
of  truth.  If  that  is  so,  how  are  these  declarations  of  power,  love,  and  the 
sound  mind  to  be  treated?  Are  they  to  be  flatly  denied,  or  deprived  of 
substance  by  being  explained  away,  or  taken  as  historic?  Either  man  had 
these  powers  or  he  had  not.  If  he  had  not,  shut  the  Old  Testament  and 
banish  it  from  the  churches.  But  if  he  had,  why  not  seek  to  recover  them,? 
If  Moses  or  loshua  or  Peter  or  Paul  of  two  or  three  thousand  years  ago 
could  see  beyond  the  material  veil,  and  tell  us  what  they  saw,  why  cannot 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

the  Moses  or  Joshua  or  Peter  or  Paul  of  the  twentieth  century  do  the 
same?  Has  it  not  become  a  matter  of  life  and  death  to  the  whole  Christian 
system  that  it  should  demonstrate  its  possession  of  power  and  love  and 
the  sound  mind  by  deeds  rather  than  by  declarations?" 

I  ask,  can  not  the  power  of  God  today  work  the  same  miracles 
that  it  could  in  the  days  of  old?  I  maintain  that  it  can,  and  truly  it 
seems  to  me  that  it  has  become  a  matter  of  life  and  death  to  the  whole 
Christian  system  to  demonstrate  that  it  is  in  possession  of  this  power, 
and  I  maintain  that  if  the  religious  systems  of  the  world  continue  with- 
out incorporating  into  their  systems  this  power,  their  whole  system 
will  crumble  under  them  and  come  to  naught. 

I  maintain  that  the  Peters  and  the  Pauls  and  the  Joshuas  and  the 
Moses  of  this  dispensation,  as  represented  in  the  leaders  of  this  Church, 
are  endowed  with  power  to  look  beyond  the  veil  and  to  reveal  to  the 
children  of  men  the  thing  that  the  Lord  would  have  them  know,  and 
also  to  work  through  faith  the  same  mighty  miracles  that  were  wrought 
through  the  Priesthood  by  those  who  held  it  in  times  that  are  past.  And 
I  testify  that  the  signs  poken  of  by  the  Savior  of  the  world,  will  fol- 
low those  who  truly  believe,  in  this  day,  just  as  much  as  in  the  time 
when  the  Savior  himself,  was  upon  the  earth. 

The  Lord  bless  you.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  an  anthem. 

"The  Restoration,"  a  solo  by  Mrs.  Lawrence  Meers. 


ELDER  HEBER  C.  IVERSON 

(President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission) 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  when  I  look  into  your  honest, 
eager  faces,  I  feel  the  sincere  desire  of  your  heart  for  the  word  of  God 
and  his  message  to  you.  I  am  overwhelmed  with  my  own  inability, 
weakness  and  dependence  upon  him!,  and  trust,  most  sincerely,  that 
if  such  message  shall  be  delivered  to  you  through  me,  I  may  enjoy 
the  spirit  thereof  to  the  honor  and  glory  of  his  name. 

You,  who  were  privileged  to  attend  the  opening  session  of  our 
conference,  I  am  sure,  you  can  say  with  me  that  it  was  a  glorious 
event,  and  the  glory  of  it  has  continued  up  to  the  present  moment. 
My  soul  was  overwhelmed  with  gratitude  to  God  for  the  blessings 
therein  obtained,  and  has  since  that  time  been  filled  with  unspeakable 
joy.  When  President  Grant  announced  to  the  audience  the  key- 
note of  the  conference,  that  it  should  be  the  love  of  God,  which  in- 
cludes, necessarily,  the  love  of  fellow  man,  the  spirit  of  truth  and  for- 
giveness, which  is  God-love ;  and  when,  with  power  befitting  a  prophet 
of  God,  he  delivered  to  us  his  message,  my  soul  was  thrilled,  and  in 
my  heart  I  said: 

We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet, 
To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days; 


ELDER  HEBER  C.  IVERSON 


09 


We  thank  thee  for  sending  the  gospel 
To  lighten  our  minds  with  its  rays. 

My  favorite  theme,  my  favorite  scriptures,  have  been  quoted  dur- 
ing this  conference.  To  my  heart  there  is  no  thought  more  sub- 
lime than  the  love  of  God  as  evidenced  in  the  love  of  his  Son  and 
manifest  in  those  who  possess  his  Spirit.  "For  the  fruit  of  the  spirit," 
says  Paul,  is  "love,  joy,  peace,  longsuffering,  gentleness,  goodness, 
faith ;"  and  inspiring  in  others  love  for  their  fellow  man,  the  spirit 
of  peace,  in  their  souls,  the  gift  of  faith  and  of  longsuffering.  They 
are  inspired  by  God's  Spirit.  How  definitely  the  Lord  declared  this 
important  principle  when  to  him  there  came  the  lawyer,  asking :  "Mas- 
ter, which  is  the  great  commandment  in  the  law."  Remember  his 
words:  "Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  with 
all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind.  This  is  the  first  and  great  com- 
mandment, and  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neigh- 
bor as  thyself.  On  these  two  commandments  hang  all  the  law  and 
the  prophets."  Nay,  upon  the  first,  we  might  say  without  being  pre- 
sumptuous, hang  all  the  law  and  the  prophets,  because  the  second  is 
contained  therein ;  for  by  the  same  Master  these  words  were  spoken : 
"If  a  man  say,  I  love  God,  and  hate  his  brother  (mark  the  strong 
language  employed),  he  is  a  liar;  for  he  that  loveth  not  his  brother 
whom  he  hath  seen,  how  can  he  love  God  whom  he  hath  not  seen?" 
Hypocrisy,  the  spirit  of  the  Pharisee,  was  most  contemptible  in  the 
estimation  of  the  Master,  and  brought  forth  such  strong  condemna- 
tion in  such  forceful  language  as  he  was  not  wont  to  use.  Again 
he  said,  "A  new  commandment  I  give  unto  you,  that  ye  shall  love 
one  another ;  and  hereby  shall  all  men  know  that  ye  are  my  disciples, 
because  ye  love  one  another." 

An  invariable  evidence  of  discipleship  of  Christ  is  love  for  our 
fellow  men.  And  to  me  these  commandments  are  just  as  important, 
just  as  absolute  as  the  commandment,  "Except  a  man  be  born  of  the 
water  and  of  the  Spirit,  he  cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven." 
for  into  God's  presence  no  man  can  go  with  hatred  in  his  heart  to- 
ward his  fellow  men;  for,  "inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of 
the  least  of  my  little  ones,  ye  have  done  it  unto  me,"  with  which  we 
receive  the  illustration  of  the  interpretation,  no  man  loves  his  God 
more  than  he  loves  his  fellow  man;  no  man  will  serve  his  God  more 
than  he  is  willing  to  serve  and  bless  his  fellow  men,  for  in  this  way 
only  we  evidence  to  him  our  love  for  him. 

Upon  my  soul  there  has  been  a  serious  thought,  and  I  must  refer 
to  it  only,  it  is  closely  related  to  the  thought  of  love  of  mankind,  I 
fear  that  modern  tendencies  are  drifting  from  that  principle.  I 
fear  that  most  sacred  institution,  the  home,  is  suffering  greatly  at 
the  hands  of  the  people  of  the  world.  And  to  our  own  people,  I  make 
a  plea  here.  Among  the  many  wholesome  slogans  that  have  been 
given  to  us  may  I  be  presumptuous  enough  to  add  one  other — "Back 
to  the  Home."    You  no  doubt  have  observed  the  tendency  to  stray 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


from  the  home,  and  it  was  emphasized  in  the  experience  of  the  recent 
past,  when  into  the  ranks  of  the  nation's  defense  were  called  our  sons 
and  our  brothers,  and  in  the  avenues  of  commercial  activities  were 
called  our  daughters  and  our  sisters;  there  they  received  magnificent 
salaries  with  which  they  could  secure  to  themselves  not  only  a  good 
living,  but  many  of  the  luxuries  their  hearts  desired.  To  return  to 
the  simple  duties  of  home  has  been  a  difficult  task  for  many  of  our 
dear  girls,  and  yet  the  noblest  task  that  ever  was  laid  upon  the  chil- 
dren of  God.  The  immortal  Roosevelt  said:  "No  work,  I  care  not 
how  important  it  may  seem  to  be,  whether  in  church  or  state,  in 
science  or  philosophy,  begins  to  compare  with  that  done  in  the  home, 
by  the  father  and  the  mother,  who  are  the  first  of  sovereigns  and 
the  divinest  of  priests." 

What  is  home?  The  best  definition  I  ever  read  is  this:  "The 
place  where  mother  is,"  be  it  a  mansion  or  a  humble  cottage,  a  tent 
upon  the  desert  sands;  where  the  mother  and  her  little  ones,  immor- 
tal souls,  dwell,  that  is  home.  Therein  is  kept  the  first  commandment 
given  of  God  to  our  father  and  to  his  wife,  our  mother,  in  the  garden 
of  Eden,  and  because  of  its  importance  it  came  first.  "Neither  can 
we  without  our  children  be  made  perfect,  nor  they  without  us,"  and  I 
decry  with  all  the  power  of  my  soul,  the  abominable  practice  that 
has  gone  abroad,  that  form  of  murder  known  as  race  suicide.  I  was 
astonished  when  a  good  woman  who  has  charge  of  one  of  our  young 
ladies'  associations  told  me  that  some  of  our  girls  belonging  to  the 
best  families,  noble  girls,  have  had  their  minds  poisoned  concerning 
this  matter  to  the  extent  that  they  had  come  to  look  upon  criminal 
operations  as  little  less  than  having  a  tooth  treated  or  drawn. 

I  think  perhaps  I  can  do  no  better  than  to  read  an  article,  be- 
cause it  has  become  a  subject  of  very  sincere  consideration  by  thinking 
men  of  the  world.  This  article  is  taken  from  a  Denver  paper,  and 
to  President  Knight  I  am  obligated  for  possession  of  it,  on  the  ques- 
tion of  marriage  and  divorce  and  kindred  evils.  I  shall  take  time 
to  read  an  article  on  "the  modern  tendencies"  which  are  strongly  at- 
tacked by  another  thinking  man,  for  it  is  evident  that  lying  at  the 
foundation  of  these  evils  is  the  deadly  sin  against  which  the  Prophet 
Joseph  F.  Smith  sounded  a  warning  voice  just  shortly  before  his 
death;  in  his  statement  that  "the  dominant  evil  of  the  age  is  un- 
chastity,"  it  is  evidenced  in  so  many  ways,  the  spirit  of  it,  is  every- 
where.  To  your  attention  I  call  this  article : 

"With  science  giving  the  shrug  of  doubt  as  to  the  existence  of 
God,  with  law  courts  grinding  out  divorces  and  nauseum,  with  pass- 
ing literature  that  finds  it  pays  to  portray  characters  reeking  with 
moral  shame  and  condoning  the  offense,  with  young  and  old  gone  mad 
over  the  lurid  motion  film,  with  the  drama  depraved  in  spite  of  heroic 
efforts  of  the  many  who  patronize  and  love  the  clean  play,  with  the 
daily  press  mirroring  the  crimes  and  sins  of  society,  with  feminine 
dress  mocking  at  decency  and  modesty,  with  ever-decreasing  respect 


ELDER  HEBER  C.  IVERSON  101 

for  authority  and  reverence  for  the  flag  of  our  country,  where  is 
the  power,  who  has  the  wisdom,  where  is  the  salvation  of  the  youth 
of  our  land? 

"When  Luther  repudiated  the  sacramental  idea  of  marriage  he 
struck  a  blow  at  the  family  and  set  to  work  forces  which  today  are 
placing  the  home  in  serious  jeopardy. 

"Marriage,  divested  of  its  religious  character  and  reduced  to  the 
condition  of  a  pure  civil  contract,  voidable  at  will,  has  become  the 
plaything  of  the  passions,  and  if  those  bonds  are  severed,  the  family 
is  broken  asunder,  children  are  born  by  later  unions,  to  one  or  both 
of  the  parents,  and  the  family  is  torn  from  its  true  relationships. 
O,  what  a  mockery!  What  a  travesty  of  what  St.  Paul  called,  'A 
great  sacrament  in  Christ  and  in  the  Church.'  And  yet  the  world  in 
which  we  live  not  only  condones  the  evil  of  those  who  are  guilty 
of  this  mockery,  but  admits  them  freely  in  the  charmed  circle  of 
society.  It  repels  with  high  disdain  the  poor  Mjagdalene  whom  the 
Savior  himself  pardoned,  but  it  honors  with  special  friendship  the 
Herods  and  their  consorts.  It  is  high  time  for  society  to  outlaw 
such  sacriligious  profaners  and  offenders  to  Christian  decency. 

"The  pagans  of  old  cast  their  infants  from  the  Tarpeian  rock, 
immolated  them  before  the  idol  of  Molock,  but  they  had  not  learned 
the  refinement  of  crime  to  which  their  modern  devotees  are  addicted 
— birth  control.  Thre  are  women  who  profess  to  be  Christians  who 
are  forever  going  about  poisoning  the  minds  and  hearts  of  every 
young  bride  they  can  reach  with  the  venom  of  their  hell-flamed 
tongues,  advising  them  to  forestall  the  laws  of  nature  and  nature's 
God  by  preventing  the  conception,  and  birth  and  the  rearing  of  chil- 
dren. Oh,  Herod,  Herod!  what  a  tyro  you  were.  The  modern  hus- 
band and  wife  have  put  you  to  shame  in  the  damning  sin  of  the 
'slaughter  of  the  innocents'.  They  tell  us  it  is  a  crime  to  bring 
children  into  the  world  in  poverty,  but  why  be  hypocrites?  If  pov- 
erty be  the  cause,  how  happens  it  that  the  evil  flourishes  most  among 
the  wealthy.  Not  long  since  there  was'  a  gathering  of  fashionable 
women  in  this  very  city.  Among  them  were  six  women  who  boasted 
of  eighteen  husbands.  The  eighteen  husbands  and  six  wives  boasted 
of  four  children,  two  of  whom  were  weak-minded." 

There  is  a  condition  against  which  we  Latter-day  Saints,  who 
have  taken  upon  us  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  and  made  covenants 
with  our  God,  must  set  our  faces  as  flint.  And,  oh,  that  woman 
who  denies  herself  the  glory  of  motherhood,  the  crown  of  the  celes- 
tial glory  which  none  other  shall  transcend,  truly  knows  not  what  she 
does.  "A  partnership  with  God  is  motherhood.  What  purity,  what 
love,  what  self-control  should  belong  to  her  who  helps  God  fashion 
an  immortal  soul."  Can  you  think  of  any  glory  that  can  come  to 
one  greater  than  to  enter  into  an  actual  partnership  with  God  our 
Father  and  the  Father  of  our  children,  and  to  be  in  sacred  nearness 
to  him  in  the  guidance  of  those  immortal,  precious  souls ! 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

God  help  us  to  know  our  duty  and  to  do  it,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 

(President  of  the  Western  States  Mission  and  of  Ensign  Stake) 

"Know  ye  not  that  to  whom  ye  yield  yourselves  servants  to  obey, 
his  servants  ye  are  whom  ye  list  to  obey,  whether  of  sin  unto  death, 
or  obedience  unto  righteousness."  This  scripture  has  borne  itself 
upon  my  soul  as  I  have  listened  to  the  instructions  received  from 
our  presiding  brethren.  There  are  two  great  forces  working  in  the 
world,  the  forces  of  evil  and  of  righteousness,  or  the  powers  of  sin 
and  the  powers  of  God. 

I  have  been  very  much  impressed  with  the  sessions  of  this  con- 
ference, and  I  shall  leave  this  place  with  my  face  towards  the  rising 
sun,  and  my  heart  against  doing  the  things  against  which  our  leaders 
have  spoken.  I  believe  there  is  no  thing  that  will  destroy  the  faith 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  so  much  as  criticism  of  the  Presidency  of 
the  Church,  or  the  presiding  authority  of  the  Church,  and  in  the  stakes 
of  Zion,  over  one  of  which  I  have  the  privilege  and  honor  to  preside, 
I  have  raised  my  voice  against  these  damning  practices ;  and  I  believe 
that  it  will  undermine  the  faith  of  the  young  people  of  Zion  if  they 
indulge  in  these  things. 

Permit  me  to  read  to  you  from  the  Book  of  Mormon.  Alma, 
that  mighty  prophet  of  the  living  God  who  declares  repentance  to  the 
people  of  this  great  nation,  a  thousand  years  and  more  ago,  found 
the  same  condition  prevailing  among  the  people  of  that  day  and  time, 
and  he  raised  his  voice  in  protest  against  it.  I  realize  that  it  is  time 
when  we  should  instil  into  the  hearts  of  our  young  people  the  love 
of  God,  a  love  for  their  fellow  men,  a  love  for  the  gospel  of  the 
Master.  And  I  believe,  in  order  to  do  that,  we  should  be  exemplary 
in  our  lives,  that  we  should  have  in  our  souls  a  testimony  of  the 
truth,  and  we  should  endeavor  to  surround  the  youth  with  the  influ- 
ences of  the  gospel  of  the  Master,  and  to  hedge  up  the  way  that 
the  power  of  the  adversary  shall  not  overcome  them  in  their  lives. 
Alma,  you  will  remember,  desired  that  he  might  have  the  voice  of 
an  angel  to  declare  repentance  unto  the  ends  of  the  earth,  and  then 
he  says : 

I  ought  not  to  harrow  up  in  my  desires,  the  firm,  decree,  of  a  just  God, 
for  I  know  that  he  granteth  unto  men  according  to  their  desire,  whether 
it  be  unto  death  or  unto  life;  yea  I  know  that  he  allotteth  unto  men,  ac- 
cording to  their  wills;  whether  they  be  unto  salvation  or  unto  destruction. 
Yea,  and  I  know  that  good  and  evil  have  come  before  all  men;  or  he 
that  knoweth  not  good  from  evil  is  blameless;  but  he  that  knoweth  good 
and  evil,  to  him  it  is  given  according  to  his  desires;  whether  he  desireth 
good  or  evil,  life  or  death,  joy  or  remorse  of  conscience.  Now  seeing  that 
I  know  these  things,  why  should  I  desire  more  than  to  perform  the  work 
to  which  I  have  been  called?  Why  should  I  desire  that  I  was  an  angel, 
that  I  could  speak  unto  all  the  ends  of  the  earth?    For  behold,  the  Lord 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 


103 


doth  grant  unto  all  nations,  of  their  own  nation  and  tongue,  to  teach  his 
word;  yea,  in  wisdom,  all  that  he  seeth  fit  that  they  should  have;  there- 
fore we  see  that  the  Lord  doth  counsel  in  wisdom,  according  to  that 
which  is  just  and  true.  I  know  that  which  the  Lord  hath  commanded  me, 
and  I  glory  in  it;  I  do  not  glory  of  myself,  but  I  glory  in  that  w:hich 
the  Lord  hath  commanded  me;  yea,  and  this  is  my  glory,  that  perhaps  I 
may  be  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God,  to  bring  some  soul  to  re- 
pentance; and  this  is  my  joy. 

I  care  not,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  how  much  opposition  comes 
from  without.  We  meet  opposition  in  the  Western  States.  There 
are  men  and  women  who,  in  the  language  that  has  been  quoted  by 
Elder  Iverson,  used  by  the  reverend  gentleman  in  a  discourse  in 
Denver,  "with  their  hell-flamed  tongues  are  poisoning  the  minds  of 
the  people"  against  this  thing  that  is  known  as  "M'prmonism;"  but  all 
the  powers  of  darkness  and  of  earth  and  hell  combined  cannot  stay 
the  onward  progress  of  the  work  of  God.  He  has  set  his  hand  the 
last  time  to  accomplish  his  purposes  in  the  earth,  to  establish  the 
truth,  and  to  bring  to  pass  his  righteousness,  and  there  is  no  power 
that  can  stay  its  progress.  It  is  destined  to  go  on  until  it  fulfills  its 
destiny  in  the  earth.  But  there  is  danger  when  there  is  internal 
strife,  when  there  is  bitterness  in  the  hearts  of  the  sons  of  God, 
that  they  will  destroy  our  faith,  and  undermine  our  lives,  and  thus 
we  will  be  servants  to  sin;  and  I  raise  my  voice  in  protest  against 
these  practices. 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  testimony  of  the  gospel 
and  in  the  privilege  that  I  have  of  lifting  my  voice  in  its  defense. 
There  is  no  joy  that  comes  to  the  soul  equal  to  that  joy  that  comes 
in  declaring  the  message  of  salvation.  I  want  to  say  to  you  that 
men  and  women  by  the  thousands  are  willing  to  listen  to  our  message, 
and  I  care  little  for  these  fellows  who  oppose  us.  I  want  to  testify 
to  you  that  it  is  a  splendid  thing  that  opposition  comes  into  the  lives 
of  the  missionaries;  it  puts  them  on  edge,  it  makes  them  determined 
and  very  anxious  to  bear  witness  of  the  truth  that  has  been  restored 
in  this  day  and  age  of  the  world. 

Now,  may  we,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  go  from  these  gatherings 
and  carry  with  us  the  inspiration  and  the  spirit  of  them,  and  let  us 
carry  it  to  our  various  wards  and  stakes  and  missions,  that  the  work 
of  God  may  go  on  unhindered,  and  that  our  brethren  and  sisters  who 
hold  positions  of  responsibility  may  receive  the  sustaining  power  of 
the  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God,  that  they  may  carry  on  the  great 
latter-day  work  entrusted  to  their  care,  I  humbly  pray,  in  Jesus'  name. 
Amen. 


ELDER  GEO.  F.  RICHARDS 

It  was  said  by  our  Savior  while  he  ministered  among  men,  that 
he  spoke  as  one  having  authority;  and  the  scriptures  tell  us  that  if  a 
man  speak,  "Let  him  speak  as  the  oracles  of  God." 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ENDORSEMENT  OF  THE  PREVIOUS  SPEAKERS 

You,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  having  accepted  the  principles  of 
the  gospel  and  the  ordinances  thereof,  and  having  tried  as  well  as  you 
could  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  in  the  midst  of  weakness, 
you  know  as  well  as  those  who  have  testified,  this  afternoon,  in  your 
presence,  that  this  is,  indeed,  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  it 
is  indeed  the  power  of  God  unto. salvation.  I  rejoice  exceedingly,  and 
join  my  brethren  in  adding  my  testimony  to  this  great  truth,  and  also 
endorsing  that  which  has  been  said  by  those  who  have  preceded  me. 

THE  PURPOSE    OF  INSTRUCTION 

I  take  it,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  in  embracing  the  gospel 
and  coming  along  thus  far  in  your  life's  work,  you  are  resolved 
and  determined  to  be  true  and  faithful  unto  the  end,  remembering 
that  the  race  is  not  to  the  swift,  neither  the  battle  to  the  strong,  but 
to  those  who  endure  faithful  to  the  end.  The  instructions  which  are 
given  are  calculated  to  bring  us  to  a  remembrance  of  the  covenants 
which  we  have  made,  of  the  undertakings  which  we  have  entered  into, 
of  the  aim  and  objects  we  have  had  when,  in  our  thoughtful  moments, 
we  have  considered  the  purpose  of  our  existence  here,  where  we  came 
from,  and  where  we  are  going  to ;  and  to  remind  us  of  our  weaknesses 
and  imperfections,  and  of  the  straight  and  narrow  way  in  which  we 
must  travel  continuously  if  we  shall  reach  the  goal  and  aim  of  our 
lives. 

I  hope,  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  will  not  be  deceivers  of 
ourselves,  but  hearing  these  things  and  locking  them  up  in  our  lives. 
This  is  not  what  is  intended,  but  rather  that  we  shall  consider  these 
admonitions,  cherish  them  in  our  minds,  weigh  them,  and  apply  them 
to  ourselves,  that  we  may  profit  by  them.  For,  if  after  we  have  been  in- 
structed so  thoroughly  and  plainly,  in  regard  to  our  duties,  we  still  con- 
tinue to  neglect  them,  we  will  not  be  without  condemnation  in  the  day 
of  judgment.  This  gospel  is  a  "savor  of  life  unto  life,  or  of  death 
unto  death"  unto  those  to  whom  it  comes.  The  hearing  of  the  word 
is  just  as  much  our  condemnation,  if  we  neglect  to  accept  and  live  by 
it,  as  it  is  our  salvation  if  we  accept  and  live  by  the  word  of  the  Lord. 

IN  COMMENDATION  OF  THE  SAINTS 

I  commend  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  your  integrity,  faith- 
fulness, and  many  sacrifices  which  you  are  making  for  the  gospel's 
sake.  I  know  that  this  is  pleasing  to  our  Father  in  heaven.  I  know 
that  you  know  that  when  you  have  done  that  which  is  right,  and  tried 
to  live  the  law  in  the  accomplishment  of  the  Lord's  purposes,  you 
know  he  is  pleased  with  you,  and  that  his  Spirit  is  upon  you.  You 
are  happy  in  the  work.  I  know,  too,  and  you  know,  that  if  we  love 
the  brethren,  it  is  a  good  index  to  our  love  of  God,  and  if  we  love  our 
Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  we  will  keep  the  commandments ; 


ELDER  GEO.  F.  RICHARDS 


105 


and  if  we  do  that  we  will  obtain  eternal  life.  That  is  what  our 
heavenly  Father  has  designed  that  we  should  do.  That  is  what  he  has 
designed  that  we  should  attain  to ;  eternal  life  in  his  presence.  And 
rnlay  God  help  us  to  this  end,  and  may  none  of  us  be  failures,  but  may 
the  success  we  will  attain  be  to  the  advantage  and  glory  of  our  lives 
in  the  world  to  come,  I  earnestly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  anthem,  "Inflammatus/'.solo 
by  Ada  McDonald. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Joseph  S.  Lindsay  of  the 
Cottonwood  stake  of  Zion. 


SECOND  OVERFLOW  MEETING. 

A  second  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the  assembly  hall  of  the 
Bureau  of  Information  at  10  o'clock  Sunday  morning,  October  10. 

Elder  David  A  Smith,  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  presided,  and 
called  the  congregation  to  order.  The  music  was  furnished  by  the 
congregation  under  the  leadership  of  President  Winslow  Farr  Smith 
of  the  Northern  States  Mission. 

The  congregation  sang,  "High  on  the  mountain  top." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Wallace  S.  Trowbridge. 

Congregation  sang,  "Israel,  Israel,  God  is  calling." 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

(President  of  the  Central  States  Mission) 

I  am  reminded  very  much  this  morning  in  our  assembly  here,  of 
conferences  that  we  frequently  hold  in  the  mission  field.  We  usually 
have  just  such  a  place  as  this  in  many  of  the  great  cities  of  the  country, 
and  just  about  a  gathering  of  this  kind — though  sometimes  smaller; 
so  I  feel  quite  at  home  here.  I  have  felt  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  here. 
I  felt  it  when  our  young  elder  prayed  in  opening  the  meeting;  and  I  am: 
reminded  of  the  words  of  the  Savior,  that  where  there  are  a  few  gath- 
ered together  in  his  name,  there  he  would  be  also.  This  is  the  Lord's 
work,  it  is  not  man's  work.  Our  Father  in  heaven  is  at  the  helm,  and  he 
governs  and  controls,  according  to  the  conditions  of  men.  It  is  true 
that  he  can  do  much  better  with  men  and  women  who  are  faithful, 
and  true  than  he  can  with  men  and  women  who  are  not,  but  he  guides 
and  controls.  This  life  of  ours  has  much  to  do  with  our  future  life 
and  with  the  destiny  of  the  human  family. 

When  the  Lord  appeared  unto  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith,  he  told 
him  that  the  creeds  of  men  were  an  abomination  in  his  sight.    Now  I 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


am  reminded  of  a  word  that  Brother  Talmage  gave  us  by  way  of  in- 
struction yesterday,  that  it  is  not  recorded  that  God  hated  man.  I 
was  glad  to  hear  him  say  that,  for  we  are  God's  children,  no  matter 
whether  we  belong  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
or  to  any  of  the  different  denominations  of  the  earth,  or  to  none  at 
all — we  are  the  children  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  he  is  the  Father  of 
our  spirits.  And  I  am  certain  that  he  loves  his  children — not  that  he 
condones  their  iniquity,  any  more  than  a  father  or  a  mother  here  in 
the  flesh  condones  the  wrong-doing  of  the  child  that  God  has  given 
them,  but  he  loves  his  children.  So,  when  he  told  Joseph  the  prophet, 
in  answer  to  his  prayer,  that  the  creeds  of  men  were  an  abomination 
in  his  sight,  he  had  in  mind  the  things  that  his  children  were  doing 
and  teaching. 

There  were  thousands  of  ministers,  men  who  professed  to  have  the 
authority  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who  had  never  considered,  per- 
haps, what  that  authority  really  was,  or  what  it  meant  to  obtain  it; 
and  as  a  result,  they  were  teaching  doctrines  that  were  erroneous.  It 
had  been  a  doctrine  of  the  teachers  of  religion  for  centuries  that  God, 
our  eternal  Father,  was  without  body,  parts,  or  passions,  that  he  filled 
the  immensity  of  space,  that  he  was  everywhere  present,  and  yet  could 
dwell  in  the  heart  of  the  smallest  child.  They  had  never  considered, 
as  someone  has  said  before,  that  anything  without  parts  could  never 
be  a  whole.  And  yet  men  who  professed  to  act  in  the  name  of  God 
and  to  teach  men  and  women  to  worship  God  were  teaching  that  doc- 
trine concerning  our  Father  in  heaven.  This  was  an  abomination  in  his 
sight,  because  it  was  untrue,  and  was  leading  men  and  women  away 
from  him  as  fast  as  they  would  listen  to  it.  Those  professors  were  un- 
doubtedly corrupt ;  they  drew  near  unto  him  with  their  lips  while  their 
hearts  were  far  from  him;  for  we  cannot  help  but  conclude  that  those 
who  were  without  a  guide  would  surely  as  the  world  go  into  trans- 
gression. A  man  that  will  teach  an  erroneous  doctrine,  and  a  man 
that  will  teach  a  doctrine  merely  for  a  livelihood  must  fail  to  be  re- 
ceptive to  the  impressions  which  God  Almighty  has  declared  should 
come  unto  man,  and  must  fall  into  error.  There  were  thousands  of 
people  also  who  were  preaching  that  God  no  longer  spoke  from  the 
heavens  above,  that  he  no  longer  revealed  himself.  This  is  at  once 
discovered  to  be  an  untrue  principle,  for  it  would  be  robbing  God,  our 
eternal  Father,  of  his  attributes  of  love  and  mercy  and  justice;  for 
he  whose  love  is  greater  than  the  love  of  any  human  being,  so  much 
so  that  there  can  be  no  comparison,  could  not  forsake  his  children  of  the 
last  generation  of  time  when  he  in  former  generations  walked"  and 
talked  with  men  and  discussed  life  and  life  eternal,  until  they  knew 
him  by  the  thousands.  Do  you  think  that  a  mother — whose  love 
is  greater  than  any  other  love  on  the  earth,  could  in  the  last  portion 
of  her  life,  so  to  speak,  forsake  the  children  that  came  to  her  the  last, 
in  preference  to  those  that  came  to  her  in  the  beginning  of  her  life, 
the  elder  children,  whom  she  had  been  careful  to  teach,  as  Christ  and 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


107 


our  Father  in  heaven  were  careful  to  teach  the  children  of  men,  ac- 
cording to  the  revelations  we  find  in  Holy  Writ?  If  a  mother  failed 
to  teach  the  children  of  her  later  years,  would  she  be  a  real  mother  to 
them,  as  she  had  been  to  those  who  had  come  to  her  in  the  former 
portion  of  her  married  life?  It  is  unreasonable  to  believe  a  mother 
would  do  it — in  fact  her  love  would  increase,  rather  than  decrease. 
And  so  it  is  with  our  Father  in  heaven ;  for  a  man  to  say  that  he  no 
longer  speaks  to  men  and  that  he  has  given  unto  the  children  of  men 
all  that  is  necessary,  would  be,  as  I  stated  before,  to  attempt  to  de- 
prive him  of  his  rights,  which  no  man  can  do.  God  has  never  said  that 
he  would  not  reveal  himself,  but  he  has  stated  that  he  would  reveal 
himself  unto  his  servants  the  prophets.  But  when  men  failed  to  kneel 
down  and  make  an  honest  appeal  unto  him,  there  was  nothing  sincere 
about  them,  the  mark  of  sincerity  could  not  be  found  in  their  lives,  and 
so  he  found  they  were  unreliable,  and  as  a  result,  the  work  of  God  was 
not  found  among  the  children  of  men. 

When  the  prophet  Joseph  appealed  to  him,  he  came  to  him  and 
spoke  to  him,  as  one  man  speaks  to  another ;  and  Joseph  saw  and  bears 
record,  that  he  had'  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones,  and  that  he  was  able 
to  speak;  he  saw  that  the  children  of  men  were  formed  after  him, 
that  he  was  our  Father  in  very  deed. 

Through  that  revelation  the  prophet  gives  unto  the  children  of 
m|en  this  fact,  that  God  is  a  man,  a  man  who  was  once  mortal,  who 
had  become  immortal  as  a  result  of  his  achievements,  as  a  result  of' 
the  life  that  he  had  led  in  some  former  world;  that  we  are  his  chil- 
dren, fashioned  after  him,  and  that  the  Holy  Scriptures  are  true, 
and  that  men  who  profess  to  teach  a  doctrine  contrary  to  this  were 
teaching  a  thing  that  was  abominable  in  the  sight  of  God.  Yet  God  did 
not  hate  those  people,  but  he  hated  the  things  which  they  did,  as  he 
does  today.  There  is  not  any  doubt  in  my  mind  but  that  the  Lord  is 
very  much  displeased  with  the  children  of  men,  and  especially  the 
children  of  this  Church,  who  have  received  the  message  from  him,  a 
testimony  of  Jesus,  when  he  finds  them  doing  things  that  are  abso- 
lutely wrong. 

He  gave  unto  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith  the  testimony  that  he  gave 
unto  Peter,  the  testimony  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  says  unto  every 
man  who  has  it,  "I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  and  that  this  is  his  work  here  upon  the  earth."  Paul  says  that 
no  man  can  say  Jesus  is  the  Lord,  but  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  comes 
as  a  result  of  obedience  to  law.  Men  were  not  obeying  the  gospel, 
they  were  not  obeying  the  principles  taught  by  the  Christ  and  his  apos- 
tles, they  had  drifted  entirely  away  from  it,  and  were  teaching  doc- 
trines that  were  untrue  and  leading  the  whole  world  astray,  until 
there  were  none  who  were  walking  in  the  path  which  God  had  decreed 
the  children  of  men  should  walk  in  in  order  to  return  to  him.  You  will 
recall  the  incident  in  the  life  of  the  apostle  Peter  at  the  time  when 
the  Christ  was  about  to  be  crucified.    Peter  had  said  to  the  Christ 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


that  he  would  follow  him  unto  death,  and  the  Savior  turned  unto  him 
and  said,  "Before  the  cock  crows,  Peter,  thou  shalt  deny  me  thrice." 
Why  ?  Because  Peter  did  not  at  that  time  have  the  Holy  Ghost.  Christ 
had  blessed  those  apostles,  he  had  breathed  the  Holy  Ghost  upon  them, 
but  he  said,  "If  I  do  not  go,  the  Spirit,  or  the  Comforter,  will  not 
come."  And  he  told  them  that  they  were  to  go  to  Jerusalem,  and  they 
were  to  remain  there  until  they  should  be  endued  with  power  from  on 
high,  and  then  they  would  receive  the  witness  that  he  was  the  Christ. 
There  was  no  need  for  it  while  the  Christ  was  there.  The  miracles 
that  he  performed  were  absolutely  genuine,  and  would  prove  to  any 
man  that  desired  to  know,  that  he  had  the  truth.  So  Peter  had  him 
as  a  witness  as  long  as  he  was  there,  but  when  he  was  separated  from 
him  on  that  night  before  the  crucifixion  and  was  accused  of  being 
one  who  was  associated  with  him,  he  denied  him;  when  one  of  those 
maidens  accused  him  of  being  one  of  those  associated  with  Jesus,  he 
said,  "No,  I  am  not,"  and  even  denied  him  three  times ;  the  scripture 
says  that  he  cursed,  or  swore;  and  then  the  cock  crowed,  and  Peter 
wept  bitterly.  But  upon  the  day  of  Pentecost,  when  the  apostles  were 
assembled  at  Jerusalem,  as  recorded  in  the  second  chapter  of  the  Acts 
of  the  Apostles,  we  find  that  those  apostles  upon  that  occasion  felt  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  It  came  upon' them  in  such  power  that  peo- 
ple heard  it  as  it  came — according  to  the  description — like  a  mighty 
rushing  of  the  wind;  and  those  men,  filled  with  power,  spoke,  and 
the  people,  gathered  together  from  among  all  nations,  heard,  each  one 
in  his  own  language.  They  became  pricked  in  their  hearts,  and  they 
cried  out,  "Men  and  brethren,  what  shall  we  do?"  Then  came  the 
Apostle  Peter,  that  man  who  God  had  decreed  should  be  at  the  head 
of  his  Church,  to  bind  on  earth  and  to  bind  in  heaven,  and  to  loose 
on  earth  and  to  loose  in  heaven,  whichever  he  decreed,  according  to  his 
judgment — which  judgment  would  be,  of  course,  inspired  by  that  power 
which  God  gave  unto  him  as  a  witness — and  he  stood  there  in  the 
majesty  of  his  power  and  said,  "Repent,  and  be  baptized  every  one  of 
you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  ye  shall 
receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost." — They  had  not  received  it,  they 
had  partaken  of  the  influence  of  it.  It  was  there  as  a  witness  unto 
them,  a  special  occasion;  but  Peter -declared  unto  them  if  they  would 
repent,  that  they  would  receive  the  manifestation  of  it  through  the 
gifts  as  promised  in  Holy  Writ.  And  so  we  are  told  that  there  were 
three  thousand  added  to  the  Church  at  that  time. 

Now,  coming  back  to  this  generation  of  time ;  Joseph  Smith,  the 
Mormon  prophet,  suffered  persecution,  yet  he  bore  record  that  he 
saw  the  Father  and  the  Son ;  both  before  and  after  he  had  received 
baptism,  and  the  witness  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  member  of  the  God- 
head, which  was  placed  in  the  Godhead  to  be  a  witness  unto  you  and 
to  me  and  unto  all  men  that  God  lives,  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ — 
he  declared  that  he  had  both  seen  and  heard  the  voice  of  the  risen 
Redeemer,  that  he  had  heard  the  voice  of  his  Father  in  heaven,  and 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BEN N ION 


109 


he  bore  witness  of  it  unto  his  death,  he  failed  not  at  any  time  to  be 
the  man  that  God  had  decreed  he  should  be  as  a  result  of  his  former 
obedience.  The  world  did  not  have  the  light,  because  they  had  not 
walked  in  the  path  by  which  men  obtain  that  light.  They  had  at- 
tempted to  climb  up  in  some  other  way.  Mien  could  purchase  positions 
in  the  churches  by  their  money  and  obtain  pews  just  where  they  de- 
sired them,  and  if  they  did  not  go,  their  sins  could  be  forgiven  anyway 
— which  thing  was  an  abomination  in  the  sight  of  God,  our  eternal 
Father. 

Joseph  Smith  brought  again  the  gospel  of  Christ,  so  that  there 
have  been  here  gathered  together  within  the  vales  of  these  mountains, 
a  people  who  do  know  the  Lord;  and  even  if  they  have  not  lived  as 
perfectly  as  they  might  have  done,  and  are  not  doing  as  perfectly  as 
they  might  do,  the  testimony  of  Jesus  is  in  their  hearts.  When  they 
go  among  the  children  of  mien,  they  have  that  power  renewed  from 
on  high,  so  to  speak,  and  they  speak  with  power  and  as  one  having 
authority,  and  they  are  not  afraid.  They  go  into  the  countries  of  this 
earth  and  bear  testimony  that  God  lives,  and  no  man  can  say  that  he 
does  live  or  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  without  this  great  witness,  which 
God  has  decreed  should  be  the  heritage  of  all  men  and  women  who 
desire  to  have  it  in  their  possession  by  obedience  to  his  laws. 

So  here  has  been  introduced  in  the  dispensation  of  time  in  which 
we  live,  a  true  order  of  worship,  a  worship  which  is  not  an  abomina- 
tion in  the  sight  of  God,  but  a  worship  which  pleases  God,  our  eternal 
Father.  And  there  never  need  be  any  fear  of  successful  contradiction. 
The  things  that  Joseph  Smith  brought  into  the  world  by  way  of  prin- 
ciples of  intelligence  have  never  been  proved  to  be  untrue.  Men  may 
say  that  he  was  not  a  prophet  of  God,  but  I  want  to  tell  you  this, 
that  when  men  say  he  was  not  a  prophet  of  God,  the  burden  of  proof 
is  always  upon  the  man  who  doubts  and  the  man  who  contends,  and 
not  on  the  man  who  bears  a  testimony.  Joseph  Smith  brought  into 
the  world  the  gospel  of  Christ,  which  binds  men  and  women  in  the 
earth  and  in  the  heavens  above  forever,  and  no  man  has  ever  been  able 
to  prove  it  to  be  untrue.  The  Book  of  Mormon  itself  stands  as  a 
monument  always  before  men — that  the  prophet  Joseph  saw  heavenly 
beings  in  the  dispensation  of  time  in  which  we  live,  men  who  had 
died  and  passed  away.  They  still  live,  they  do  not  lose  their  identity, 
but  they  are  individually  real,  and  possess  their  faculties.  He  bears 
testimony  of  it,  and  that  book  itself,  is  a  revelation  to  the  children  of 
men,  and  proof  that  he  has  spoken  the  truth. 

A  man  who  professed  to  be  a  Presbyterian  minister  approached  me 
not  long  ago,  after  one  of  our  street  meetings,  in  one  of  the  Eastern 
States,  and  said,  "I  do  not  believe  the  Book  of  Mormon." 

I  said,  "Have  you  ever  read  it?" 

He  said,  "No." 

"I  did  not  think  you  had,"  I  said.  "I  told  you  that  in  order  to 
believe  the  Book  of  Mormon,  men  must  be  humble,  and  prayerful, 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


they  must  be  honest  and  earnest,  and  must  read  it  for  the  purpose  of 
finding  out  whether  it  be  true  or  whether  it  be  false.  You  told  the 
truth  when  you  said  you  did  not  believe  it,  for  I  tell  you  that  it  takes 
work,  and  it  takes  faith,  and  it  takes  devotion  to  believe  the  Book 
of  Mormon  and  to  learn  it,  and  it  comes  as  a  result  of  a  declaration  and 
a  determination  in  the  heart  of  man  to  know  whether  it  is  true  or 
whether  it  is  not.  There  is  no  gold-brick  swindle  in  the  'Mormon' 
Church ;  it  is  real.  You  can  sort  the  principles,  any  one  of  them,  and 
take  them  into  your  church  and  discuss  them,  and  I  tell  you  every- 
thing that  you  preach  which  comes  through  Joseph  Smith  the  prophet 
will  be  an  enlightenment  to  the  minds  of  every  man  and  woman  who 
listens  to  you.  Go  ahead  and  do  it,  and  I  tell  you  you  will  be  preach- 
ing the  word  of  God,  and  Presbyterianism  and  all  other  'isms'  will  dis- 
appear" 

I  said  further  to  him,  "Personaly  I  have  never  desired  to  attack 
a  man  for  his  religious  belief.  I  do  not  believe  in  it.  I  do  not  believe 
in  debates.  I  never  saw  any  good  come  from  them.  I  never  saw  any 
good  coming  from  one  man  and  another  getting  into  a  quarrel,  a 
physical  quarrel.  They  nev.er  were  peaceful  friends  afterwards,  never 
had  confidence  in  each  other.  Men  and  women  are  not  converted 
through  conquest  of  that  sort,  they  are  only  converted  through  in- 
telligent research  and  discovery;  and  when  men  and  women  do  make 
an  actual  discovery,  it  is  written  in  their  hearts  because  they  are  the 
children  of  God  and  in  their  hearts  dwells  the  Spirit  which  emanates 
from  God,  our  eternal  Father,  who  fashioned  it  in  the  world  from 
which  we  came.  And  so  I  say  to  you,  we  make  no  attacks,  we  would 
like  you  to  read  the  scripture,  as  we  do.  You  do  not  believe  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet,  but  if  there  is  anything  in  the  scripture  which 
goes  to  prove  that  he  was  a  prophet  you  ought  to  learn  it.  You  are  a 
child  of  God.  There  will  come  a  time  when  you  will  have  to  stand  be- 
for  the  judgment  bar  of  God  to  give  an  account  of  the  deeds  done  in 
the  flesh,  and  I  feel  that  I  would  be  held  accountable,  inasmuch  as  I 
have  come  in  personal  contact  with  you,  if  I  did  not  bear  my  testimony 
to  you  and  give  you  something  to  think  about  and  give  you  something 
to  read  and  say  unto  you,  in  a  friendly  way,  not  in  an  antagonistic 
way,  that  you  are  in  error." 

After  I  had  discussed  the  gospel  with  him  for  half  an  hour  he 
shook  hands  with  me,  and  said,  "I  am  glad  to  have  had  the  interview." 

I  want  to  tell  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  time  will 
come  when  this  thing  called  prejudice  will  be  swerved  to  one  side  or  the 
other,  and  men  who  are  honest  and  yet  who  are  living  an  abomination 
in  doctrine  and  practice  before  God  will  accept  the  truth. — A  man  who 
is  in  adultery  cannot  accept  the  truth,  a  man  who  lies  and  a  man 
who  bears  false  witness,  and  a  man  who  is  not  true  to  himself,  will 
not  accept  the  gospel  of  Christ,  and  he  will  not  be  in  tune  and  in  har- 
mony with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  It  will  be  absolutely  necessary  for 
him  to  repent.  God  does  not  love  him  in  his  iniquity — his  heart  yearns 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION  111 


for  him,  as  the  mother's  heart  yearns  for  her  child;  he,  with  greater 
power — so  much  greater  than  the  human  mind  is  capable  of  under- 
standing— yearns  with  a  yearning  that  we  are  not  capable  at  all  of 
appreciating,  for  the  return  of  one  of  his  sons  or  daughters,  no  matter 
where  they  may  be  in  the  earth. 

Men  were  led  by  the  power  of  the  Adversary,  through  false  preach- 
ing for  centuries,  when  no  man  upon  the  earth  had  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  as  a  witness  in  him.  They  were  led'  astray  for  centuries 
into  believing  that  God  had  done  it  all,  that  he  himself  had  fought 
the  fight  and  there  was  nothing  for  the  children  of  men  to  do  but  bow 
their  heads  and  worship  him  and  so  be  saved;  it  was  an  easy  way  to 
salvation,  and  thousands  and  millions  of  people  accepted  it.  But 
when  the  true  order  of  worship  came,  and  it  was  taught  that  work, 
and  faith,  and  intelligent  devotion  are  necessary,  there  were  only  a  few 
who  found  themselves  willing  and  ready  to  accept  the  doctrine  which 
God,  our  Father,  had  declared  should  be  the  way  by  which  men  should 
follow  in  order  to  return  unto  him. 

I  say  unto  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  this  gospel  of  the  King- 
dom of  God  will  purify  men  and  women,  it  will  cause  them  to  repent, 
and  when  they  repent  they  are  not  an  abomination,  nor  will  their 
creeds  be,  in  his  sight,  for  everyone  will  know  the  truth,  everyone  will 
be  a  brother  in  very  deed.  The  name  of  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith  will 
be  revered  and  written  into  the  hearts  of  the  thousands  of  men  who 
forsake  sin. 

But,  as  was  stated  yesterday,  and  as  has  been  written,  "God  cannot 
look  upon  sin  with  the  least  degree  of  allowance,  and  none  need 
try  to  reach  God — whether  they  be  in  the  Church  or  out — when  they 
have  in  their  hearts  the  spirit  of  hate,  the  spirit  of  iniquity,  the  spirit 
of  falsity,  for  those  are  the  creeds  which  God  hates,  and  which  men 
and  women  must  be  relieved  of  before  they  can  feel  that  sweet,  beauti- 
ful influence  which  emanates  from  our  Father  in  heaven.  May  God 
give  you  and  me  the  grace  and  the  power  to  live  as  we  ought  to  live, 
I  pray  in  Christ's  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

(President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission) 

"Where  no  counsel  is,  the  people  fall:  but  in  the  multitude  of 
counselors  there  is  safety." 

This  scripture  came  to  my  mind  and  remained  with  me  during 
Friday  and  Saturday  as  I  listened  to  the  voices  of  the  inspired  ser- 
vants of  God ;  and  especially  was  it  impressed  upon  my  heart  during 
the  delivery  of  that  splendid  discourse  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant. 

What  a  beautiful  thing  it  is  to  forgive  and  to  forget.  A  poet  has 
said:  "To  err  is  human:  to  forgive  is  divine." 

Israel  is  blessed  with  wise  counselors  and  happy  is  the  man  and 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  woman  who  walks  in  the  path  of  counsel.  The  faults  we  have,  the 
Lord  seeks  to  remove,  because  thereby  our  progress  in  his  kingdom 
is  made  more  rapid.  These  faults  act  as  a  brake  on  our  endeavors 
and  make  us  fall  short  of  the  full  measure  of  success  which  God  has 
promised  to  his  faithful  children. 

Unto  Joshua,  that  mighty  warrior  of  old,  came  God's  command 
to  take  a  certain  city.  The  soldiers  were  sent  against  the  enemy,  but 
they  returned  in  the  confusion  of  retreat.  Upon  the  ground,  upon  his 
face,  Joshua  prostrated  himself  and  asked  God  why  "Israel  turneth 
their  backs  before  their  enemy."  The  Lord  said :  "There  is  an  accursed 
thing  in  the  midst  of  thee,  O  Israel :  thou  canst  not  stand  before 
thine  enemies,  until  ye  take  away  the  accursed  thing  from  among  you." 

The  accursed  thing  was  found  in  the  tent  of  one  of  Joshua's  sol- 
diers. God  had  commanded  those  men  that  when  the  city  of  Jericho 
was  taken  they  were  to  keep  themselves  away  from  the  accursed  thing 
in  the  city.  One  of  the  soldiers  disobeyed.  He  took  a  garment  upon 
which  the  curse  rested.  He  also  took  some  of  the  silver  and  gold 
which  belonged  to  the  Lord,  to  be  used  in  the  holy  sanctuary  and 
hid  them  in  his  tent.  The  man  was  dealt  with  according  to  divine  in- 
junction, and  then  the  command  was  repeated:  "Go  up  to  Ai." 
Joshua  did  so.  The  city  fell  into  his  hands,  because  the  accursed 
thing  had  been  removed  from  Israel. 

And  when  we  violate  a  command  of  the  Lord,  when  we  take 
anything  that  is  forbidden  or  keep  anything  that  belongs  to  our  Fath- 
er, it  is  an  accursed  thing:  it  is  a  brake  on  our  endeavors,  and  to  get 
rid  of  this  thing  is  our  first  duty,  so  that  we  may  go  on  in  the  path 
toward  eternal  perfection. 

Someone  has  said,  "Blessed  is  the  man  who  has  found  his  work." 
Then  thrice  blessed  are  the  people  of  God,  for  unto  them  hath  been 
given  a  great  work.  The  mission  of  this  Church  is  to  preach  the 
gospel  unto  every  nation  and  kindred  and  tongue  and  people.  So 
long  as  a  man  will  work  there  is  hope  for  him,  but  when  he  sinks 
in  despair  and  refuses  to  exert  himself,  then  it  is  hard  to  save  him. 
One  of  the  shining  and  great  evidences  that  we  are  the  people  of  God 
is  that  in  our  hearts  and  in  our  lives  is  the  spirit  of  service.  Look  at 
the  magnificent  work  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  doing  in  the  world. 
At  great  sacrifice,  which  is  sacred-  unto  the  Lord,  they  are  sending 
their  sons  and  their  daughters  to  preach  the  gospel.  The  Book  of 
Mormon  is  being  distributed  by  the  tens  of  thousands.  The  word  of 
the  Lord  is  being  delivered  to  the  world,  to  the  children  of  our 
heavenly  Father ;  and  the  testimonies  of  the  elders,  the  discourses  they 
deliver,  the  books,  the  tracts  that  they  distribute,  the  sermons  that  we  ■ 
have  heard  during  this  conference,  the  testimonies  of  the  servants  of 
God  upon  the  isles  of  the  sea,  in  the  north  and  the  south,  the  east  and 
the  west — all  these  combine  as  the  loud  voice,  saying:  "Fear  God, 
and  give  glory  to  him,  for  the  hour  of  his  judgment  is  come."  That 
is  the  mission  we  are  engaged  in,  and  the  Lord  will  bless  his  people 
for  the  sacrifice  they  are  making. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


113 


We  are  a  great  people.  Why?  .  Is  it  because  we  are  great  in 
ourselves?  No.  We  recognize  that  the  authority  which  we  profess 
to  hold- — and  which  we  do  hold,  I  testify  unto  you — is  powerless  un- 
less the  spirit  of  service  accompanies  it.  Is  not  authority,  without 
service,  without  work,  powerless  as  faith  without  works?  The  spirit 
of  service  is  in  our  hearts,  and  this  is  what  is  making  the  people 
great.  It  has  been  said  that  it  is  not  what  we  take  in  this  life,  but 
what  we  give  up  that  makes  us  rich.  And  the  Latter-day  Saints  have 
given,  because,  in  the  words  of  the  Savior,  it  is  more  blessed  to  give 
than  to  receive;  and  the  great  work  which  the  Father  has  definitely 
commissioned  us  to  perform  is  making  this  people  great,  through  the 
law  of  service  and  of  sacrifice,  which  is  the  soul  of  the  work  in  which 
we  are  engaged. 

If  you  will  permit  me,  I  want  to  substitute  two  words  in  a  verse 
which  was  written  to  eulogize  the  world-famed  Yale  college.  I  want 
to  substitute  for  "old  Yale,"  the  words  "the  Church,"  and  then  see  if 
this  does  not  apply  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

"Miother  of  men,  grown  strong  in  giving, 

Honor  to  him  thy  lights  have  led, 

Rich  in  the  toil  of  thousands  living, 

Proud  of  the  deeds  of  thousands  dead, 

We,  who  have  felt  thy  power  and  known  thee, 

We,  in  whose  lives  thy  lights  avail, 

High  in  our  hearts  enshrined,  enthrone  thee, 

Mother  of  men,  The  Church." 

When  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  going  to  his  martyrdom,  he 
made  a  declaration,  filled  with  love  and  charity,  that  will  go  ring- 
ing down  the  ages  as  one  of  the  noblest  truths  that  ever  crossed  mortal 
lips.  He  said,  "If  my  life  is  of  no  value  to  my  friends,  it  is  of  none 
to  myself."  That  truth  is  the  soul  of  the  work  of  the  Lord.  It  is 
the  truth  that  is  in  the  heart  of  President  -Grant  and  all  the  leaders  of 
this  Church.  It  is  the  truth  in  the  heart  of  every  president  that  has 
presided  over  the  Church  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  not  going  about  this  work 
blindly.  Our  vision  is  clear.  The  prophet  has  said,  "Where  there  is 
no  vision,  the  people  perish."  But  we  are  blessed  with  the  vision  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  that  guides  us  into  all  truth. 

On  the  way  to  Atlanta  from  Chattanooga  a  few  weeks  ago,  I  was 
in  conversation  with  a  Baptist  minister,  a  very  fine  gentleman.  He  in- 
vited me  to  answer  his  questions  concerning  the  doctrines  of  the 
Church,  which  I  did  to  the  best  cl  my  ability,  and  with  a  prayer  in  my 
heart  that  the  Lord  would  help  me.  I  said  to  him,  "Do  not  these 
great  events,  this  world  war,  this  pestilence,  portend  some  great  event 
such  as  the  second  coming  of  the  Son  of  God?" 

"Well,"  said  he,  "I  think  so  now,  but  I  did  not  used  to  think  so ; 
and  if  any  man  seven  years  ago  had  predicted  this  world  war  would 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


fall  upon  the  world  in  its  destructive  fury  and  awful  bloodshed,  we 
would  have  laughed  him  to  scorn,  and  then  crucified  him." 

I  said,  "The  world  did  kill  him,  for  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  did 
predict  this  world  war.  He  was  laughed  to  scorn,  and  the  world 
killed  him ;  and  he  went  to  his  doom  a  martyr  for  the  testimony  of 
Jesus  Christ." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  thank  God  for  this  vision,  that  we  may  see 
our  duty  clearly  and  thank  God  for  our  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator, 
who  by  the  mercy  and  the  goodness  of  God,  guides  his  people,  and  un- 
to whose  counsel  we  will  rally — because  I  know  and  I  bear  my  testi- 
mony that  the  sons  and  the  daughters  of  this  people  love  the  Church — 
and  will  come  to  her  help  in  the  divine  mission  which  God  hath  com- 
missioned her  to  perform. 

I  bear  my  testimony  that  we  are  led  by  prophets  and  apostles,  wise 
counselors ;  and  if  we  will  give  heed — which  we  will  do,  with  the 
help  of  the  Lord — to  their  teachings  and  counsels,  we  shall  reap 
eternal  life,  which  is  the  greatest  gift  that  God  can  give  to  man. 

The  Lord  help  us  to  keep  firm  and  faithful  unto  death,  is  my 
earnest  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

i 

ELDER  WINSLOW  FARR  SMITH 

(President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission) 

I  endorse  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  the  words  of  the  previous 
speakers,  for  I  am  engaged,  as  they  are,  in  the  mighty  work  of  preach- 
ing the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  And  we  are  not  alone  in  this  mighty 
ministry;  there  are  1,700  of  us  sent  out  from  the  stakes  of  Zion  to 
bear  the  message  of  the  restored  gospel.  There  is  joy  in  this  work, 
for,  as  President  Callis  has  said,  It  is  the  service  that  we  give  that 
brings  us  happiness. 

The  missionary  work  of  the  Church  is  progressing.  The  mes- 
sage that  Christ  was  in  very  deed  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  that  he 
gave  us  a  plan  of  salvation  that  will  save  the  souls  of  men,  that  the 
gospel,  after  the  ages  of  darkness,  was  restored  and  given  to  the  chil- 
dren of  men  through  the  Prophet  Joseph — this  message  is  what  we 
are  bearing  to  the  world.  We  go  where  we  are  sent.  We  go  gladly. 
We  give  our  time,  we  give  of  our  talents,  we  give  the  best  that  is  in 
us,  for  we  know  that  God's  work  is  paramount,  here  on  the  earth,  and 
that  ultimately  the  gospel  of  our  Lord  will  triumph. 

It  is  true  that 

High  on  the  mountain  top 

A  banner  is  unfurled; 

Ye  nations,  now  look  up; 

It  waves  to  all  the  world; 

In  Deseret's  sweet,  peaceful  land; 

On  Zion's  Mount  behold  it  stand. 

We  have  gathered  this  week  by  the  thouands,  from  the  north 
and  the  south  and  the  east  and  the  west,  many  of  us  from  distant 


ELDER  WINSLOW  FARR  SMITH 


115 


parts,  to  hear  the  advice  and  counsel  of  our  leaders ;  and  to  sustain 
them  in  their  high  and  holy  callings.  I  trust,  and  I  really  believe,  that 
all  of  us  who  attend  these  meetings  and  listen  to  the  words  of  our 
leaders,  go  back  to  our  homes  more  determined  to  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  God  than  when  we  came  here. 

It  is  a  wonderful  thing,  this  gospel  of  our  Lord.  It  is  not  to 
be  absorbed  by  merely  sitting  idly  by  and  wondering  how  we  are 
going  to  be  saved.  All  of  us  have  an  idea  of  some  kind,  of  salva- 
tion. Rarely  do  you  meet  a  man  who  does  not  have  some  belief  in  im- 
mortality ;  but  when  you  propound  to  him  the  question,  "What  is 
the  immortality  in  which  you  believe?  what  is  the  salvation  for  which 
you  hope?"  in  most  instances  you  will  find  that  he  cannot  give  you 
an  intelligent  answer.  To  the  Latter-day  Saint,  however,  who  is  liv- 
ing his  religion,  and  who  is  progressing1  in  a  knowledge  of  his  relig- 
ion, through  prayer,  faith,  and  diligent  study,  there  is  a  pointed,  plain, 
beautiful  conception  of  immortality  and  eternal  life,  that  gives  his 
life  something  new,  gives  him  hope,  gives  him  courage,  and  gives 
him  an  understanding  that  his  life  here  on  earth  is  more  than  merely 
gaining  the  things  of  this  life. 

The  Savior  said,  "This  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee, 
the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ  whom  thou  hast  sent."  And 
truly  the  Savior  spoke  the  truth  when  he  made  this  wonderful  state- 
ment. It  is  life  eternal  to  understand  the  plan  of  salvation  and  to 
order  our  lives  so  that  we  are  in  accord  with  its  teachings.  It  is 
life  eternal  to  find  such  joy  in  our  lives  here,  by  righteous  living, 
that  when  the  end  shall  come,  we  will  pass  away  in  peace,  not 
fearing  death,  but  knowing  that  we  have  fought  a  good  fight  here, 
and  that  for  having  fought  this  good  fight,  the  reward  that  awaits  us 
will  truly  be  ours. 

Again,  the  Savior  said,  "Search  the  scriptures,  for  in  them  ye 
have  eternal  life."  My  brethren  and  sisters,  we,  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
are  blessed  above  all  peoples  of  the  earth  in  regard  to  the  scriptures 
that  we  have  to  search.  We  have  the  holy  Bible,  that  grand  old  book 
that  has  come  down  through  the  ages  to  us.  We  worship  God  and 
we  read  of  him  and  we  search  that  scripture  and  we  order  our  lives 
in  a  large  degree  by  its  teachings — to  us  the  holy  Bible  is  most  sac- 
red— but  we  have  more,  we  have  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  parallel 
history,  if  I  may  say  it,  of  the  inhabitants  of  this  continent.  Then 
we  have  still  more,  we  have  the  history  or  the  recorded  word  of  our 
heavenly  Father  as  it  has  been  given  to  his  children  in  this  day  and 
age;  and  still  more,  we  have  that  record,  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price." 
These  four  books  we  accept  as  the  standard  works  of  the  Church, 
as  the  divine  revelations  of  our  Father,  as  his  law  unto  his  Church. 

But,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  accepting  them  and  declaring 
to  the  world  that  we  believe  them,  do  we  know  them?  Do  we  search 
them,  do  we  even  read  them?  Do  we  study  them  that  we  may  know 
the  plan  of  salvation  and  that  we  may  build  up  our  most  holy  faith 
and  our  determination,  by  prayerful,  consistent  research?    I  fear  that 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


far  too  many  of  us  take  this  matter  of  life  and  this  matter  of  our 
duty  to  ourselves  in  the  truth,  far  too  lightly.  I  fear  that  far  too 
many  of  us  leave  our  books  dusty  on  the  shelves,  rather  than  taking 
them  down  and  reading  the  wonderful  words  that  they  contain.  We 
can  turn  chapter  by  chapter  through  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  every 
chapter  that  we  read  opens  our  minds  to  something  new ;  we  car» 
study  it  phrase  by  phrase,  and  our  minds  will  brighten,  if  we  will  only 
do  it.  How  many  here  today  have  read  the  Book  of  Mormon  through  ? 
How  many  have  read  the  other  scriptures  ?  Ask  yourselves  these  ques- 
tions. 

We  are  too  prone,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  take  life  easy,  ti> 
order  our  lives  along  the  lines  of  least  resistance.  We  are  too  prone 
to  read  the  light,  foamy,  entertaing  things  of  life,  that  do  not  benefit 
us,  and  to  leave  unread  the  vital  works  that  make  us  mighty  and 
strong  and  intelligent  for  our  life's  work.  We  have  these  four  books, 
the  holy  scripture,  which  we  should  search.  We  have  other  works,  and 
we  can  read  and  study  and  none  of  us  will  ever  master  one  tithe  of  the 
wonderful  truths  embraced  in  these  books. 

I  want  to  read  to  you  just  one  verse  from  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
It  is  a  beautiful  verse,  and  has  been  published  many,  many  times.  I 
fear  that  most  of  us  are  not  yet  familiar  with  it.  It  is  the  13th  verse  of 
the  second  chapter  of  Second  Nephi : 

And  if  ye  shall  say  there  is  no  law,  ye  shall  also  say  there  is  no  sin. 
If  ye  shall  say  there  is  no  sin,  ye  shall  also  say  there  is  no  righteousness. 
And  if  there  be  no  righteousness,  there  be  no  happiness.  And  if  there 
be  no  righteousness  nor  happiness,  there  be  no  punishment  nor  misery. 
And  if  these  things  are  not,  there  is  no  God.  And  if  there  is  no  God,  we 
are  not,  neither  the  earth;  for  there  could  have  been  no  creation  of  things, 
neither  to  act  nor  to  be  acted  upon;  wherefore,  all  things  must  have  van- 
ished away. 

In  this  marvelously  philosophical  verse  that  we  have  in  that 
chapter,  there  is  so  much  truth  to  be  pondered  over  and  thought  about, 
that  if  we  will  take  it,  read  it,  study  it,  analyze  it,  and  pray  over  it, 
our  minds  will  be  opened  and  we  will  have  an  understanding  of  the 
things  of  God  as  we  never  had  them  before. 

As  I  said  a  moment  ago,  we  are  too  prone  to  follow  the  lines  of 
the  least  resistance,  and  not  to  strive  to  search  the  scriptures  and  to 
find  out  the  things  of  God.  The  things  of  God  are  more  than  faith, 
repentance,  and  baptism,,  these  first  principles ;  the  things  of  God  em- 
brace all  truths,  and  if  we  search  the  scripture  and  master  these  basic 
truths  of  our  Father,  and  then  go  outside  and  take  the  works  of 
commentary  of  the  great  thinkers,  we  can  day  by  day  grow  in  an  un- 
derstanding of  God  and  really  know  him. 

"This  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee,  the  only  true 
God,  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent;"  and,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  we  cannot  hope  to  know  the  only  true  God  nor  Jesus  Christ, 
if  we  do  not  seek  them.  True,  it  is  within  the  power  of  our  heavenly 
Father  to  bless  us  with  positive  knowledge,  with  no  effort  on  our 
own  part.    It  is  within  his  power  to  magnify  us  so  mightily  that  we 


ELDER  WIN  SLOW  FARR  SMITH 


117 


could  stand  up  as  shining  lights  so  that  the  world  would  marvel  at 
our  wonderful  achievements.  But  God  moves  along  natural  lines ; 
he  gives  us  the  intelligence,  he  gives  us  the  faith,  he  gives  us  the 
wisdom,  and  if  we  will  utilize  these  God-given  faculties  and  will  exer- 
cise them  and  will  study  and  will  seek,  then  we  will  know.  Fre- 
quently do  the  missionaries  come  to  us  in  the  field  with  not  even  an 
idea  of  God.  They  have  gone  on  a  mission  purely  because  they  have 
been  sent.  How  much  finer,  how  much  more  capable  would  they 
have  been  if  their  parents  had  trained  them  in  the  home,  and  they  had 
been  trained  in  the  schools  and  in  the  organizations  of  the  Church, 
so  that  they  had  gone  into  the  mission  field  positively  knowing  that 
the  gospel  of  Christ  is  true;  with  no  doubt  in  their  minds.  While 
they  would  not  necessarily  be  wonderful  preachers ;  and  while,  prob- 
ably, they  could  not  explain  the  gospel  in  detail,  yet  there  would 
be  something  burning  in  their  souls  that  tells  them  that  the  gospel  is 
true,  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  is  indeed  a 
prophet  of  the  living  God.  This  is  life  eternal  to  know  these  things, 
and  in  order  to  know  them,  we  must  search,  with  sincerity,  we  must 
be  prayerful,  and  we  must  be  really  and  truly  and  genuinely  prayer- 
ful,— we  must  go  on  our  knees  before  our  God;  he  demands  it. 

Why  he  instituted  prayer,  I  do  not  know,  but  he  did  it,  and  it 
suffices  me  to  know  that  since  he  did  it,  my  duty  is  to  bow  myself 
before  my  God  and  to  appeal  to  him  in  prayer.  Why  the  other  ordin- 
ances were  given,  I  do  not  know,  but  they  were,  and  they  have  a 
purpose,  and  he  who  fails  to  keep  these  commandments  of  our  Fath- 
er cannot  hope  for  the  blessings. 

There  is  a  remarkable  relationship  between  keeping  the  command- 
ments of  God  and  enjoying  his  blessing.  God  chose  in  the  beginning 
to  give  to  his  children  positive  commandments,  that  was  his  scheme, 
he  laid  down  the  law,  and  he  said,  my  children  must  abide  by  that 
law  if  they  will  have  the  blessings.  The  prophet  Joseph  tells  us,  as 
recorded  in  the  130th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  "There 
is  a  law  irrevocably  decreed  in  the  heavens  before  the  foundations  of 
this  earth,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated,  and  when  we  ob- 
tain any  blessings  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  the  law  upon  which 
it  is  predicated."  And  the  opposite  of  this  is  trule,  that  when  we  vio- 
late the  law,  the  punishment  that  God  has  designed  that  his  children 
must  take,  if  they  violate  the  law,  will  be  meted  out  to  them.  How, 
then,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  can  we  hope  to  know,  can  we  hope  to 
develop,  can  we  hope  for  the  blessings  of  God  if  we  do  not  exercise 
our  God-given  faculties.  I  said  there  is  a  relationship  between  the 
keeping  of  the  commandments  of  God  and  the  enjoying  of  his  bless- 
ings. We  must  put  ourselves  in  tune  with  him.  We  must  keep  his 
commandments.  We  must  obey  the  law,  or  we  cannot  hope  for,  nor 
will  we  receive  the  blessings  which  God  has  in  store  for  his  children. 
In  his  justice,  in  his  mercy,  in  his  love  for  his  children,  he  could  not 
give  to  the  sinner  the  blessing  when  he  failed  to  keep  the  law,  the 
same  as  we  would  give  it  to  the  righteous  child  who  did  keep  that  law. 


.  118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

Now,  knowing  these  things,  and  knowing  that  we  must  know 
God,  that  we  must  find  him  out,  that  we  must  know  for  ourselves, 
why  is  it  that  we  stand  by,  let  the  world  go  on  and  let  the  Church 
go  on,  while  we  do  nothing  toward  the  salvation  of  our  own  souls  ? 

The  message  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
is  a  wonderful  one,  it  is  the  message  of  life  and  the  message  of  sal- 
vation. The  doctrines  of  the  Church  stand  alone,  they  have  borne  the 
acid  test  of  100  years.  The  world,  the  best  brains  of  the  world  have 
endeavored  to  disprove  them.  This  wonderful  book  from  which  I 
have  read,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  has  been  held  up  to  ridicule  but 
after  100  years  it  stands  unimpeached  and  unimpeachable,  for  it  is 
indeed  the  word  of  the  true  and  the  living  God.  We  have  these 
things,  they  are  ours,  we  have  them  in  our  hearts,  most  of  them  ;  and 
the  books  lie  on  the  shelves  in  far  too  many  cases,  dirty  and  dusty 
from  disuse.  Why  dp  we  not  magnify  the  intelligence  that  we  have, 
study  and  learn,  prepare  ourselves,  so  that  when  the  time  comes  and 
the  opportunity  presents  itself  for  us  to  explain  the  principles  of  the 
gospel,  that  we  will  know  what  the  gospel  is,  and  that  we  will  de- 
clare it  to  the  people  in  power  and  in  truth. 

The  testimony  that  God  lives  is  a  gift  to  us ;  it  comes  to  us  when 
we  are  worthy  of  it.  He  blesses  us  when  we  strive  for  that  blessing  and 
reach  out  and  try  to  get  it.  He  is  indeed  our  Father  in  heaven,  to 
whom  we  can  go  and  from  whom  we  can  ask  a  blessing.  We  know 
that  the  world  gazes  on  an  immaterial  something,  which  they  worship, 
in  a  way,  as  God.  We  know  the  true  and  the  living  God,  the  God  of 
Israel,  and  we  know  that  in  this  day  and  age  he  reveals  his  mind  and 
will  to  his  children.  That  testimony  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  gave  100 
years  ago,  rings  in  the  hearts  and  the  ears  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
today.  Hundreds  are  coming  into  the  fold,  the  message  is  bearing 
fruit,  and  while  he  is  not  accepted  generally,  his  teachings  and  his 
principles  are  being  accepted  by  the  world  today.  Mormonism  is 
going  forward,  it  will  triumph ;  and  the  message  that  the  mission- 
aries bear  by  the  hundreds  and  the  thousands  will  bring  the  honest 
in  heart  into  the  Church,  for  it  has  the  ring  of  sincerity.  My  broth- 
ers and  sisters,  it  is  life  eternal  to  know  God,  it  is  life  eternal  to 
know  his  Son,  it  is  life  eternal  to  know  that  in  this  day  and  age  God 
has  revealed  himself,  his  mind  and  his  will  to  the  children  of  men. 

May  we  be  worthy,  may  our  testimonies  grow,  may  we,  by  right- 
eous living,  be  so  strong  and  so  solid  that  we  will  know  of  ourselves 
without  a  doubt  that  God  lives  and  that  this  is  his  Church,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church) 

At  a  gathering  in  this  city,  the  other  day,  a  prominent  railroad 
man  recently  from  Europe,  in  making  a  few  remarks,  stated  that 
when  he  applied  to  the  American  Consul  for  a  passport  to  come  to 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


119 


America,  a  numiber  of  questions  were  asked.  One  of  them  was,  "Are 
you  a  Bolshevist?"  he  answered,  "no."  Another,  "Are  you  a  'Mor- 
mon'?" and  he  answered,  "no." 

I  volunteered  the  information  that  these  were  the  two  extremes ; 
and  he  said,  "Yes,  I  know  what  Bolshivism  is :  I  have  lived  with  it ; 
but  until  now,  I  have  not  known  what  'Mormonism'  is ;  and  I  want 
to  say  to  you  men  here  that  such  a  spirit  of  friendship,  I  have  never 
seen  in  Europe." 

It  was  my  pleasure  to  bring  that  man  over  here  to  the  temple 
block;  his  time  being  limited  I  turned  him  over  to  Brother  God- 
dard  and  some  of  his  associates.  I  called  for  him  again  in  an 
hour,  in  order  to  get  him  to  his  train,  and  he  did  not  care  to  leave  the 
block — he  stayed  here  until  the  very  last  minute.  He  said,  "Mr. 
Smith,  it  is  wonderful,  it  is  wonderful,  and  I  want  to  know  more  of 
your  people  and  your  doctrine!  I  understand  you  have  missionaries 
in  Holland.   I  intend  to  look  them  up  when  I  get  home." 

A  few  months  ago  some  business  men  from  England,  made  a 
tour  of  the  United  States.  I  read  a  letter  day  before  yesterday  from 
one  of  those  men,  saying,  "We  regret  that  we  considered  our  stay 
at  Salt  Lake  City  of  so  little  importance  that  we  did  not  allow  more 
time  for  it.  Of  all  the  visits  we  made  to  the  cities  of  the  United 
States,  none  were  so  profitable  as  our  visit  to  your  city." 

Soon  after  they  were  here,  a  number  of  Boy  Scouts,  from  New 
York,  called  upon  us.  Their  leaders  said  that  they  had  debated  some 
time  as  to  whether  it  would  be  wise  to  bring  those  boys  to  Salt  Lake 
City,  but  inasmuch  as  their  return  trip  took  them  this  way,  they 
thought  they  would  stop  off  for  a  little  while.  He  said,  "We  regret 
that  we  did  not  arrange  to  stay  longer;  we  have  not  been  treated  so 
well  in  any  city  of  the  United  States  as  you  have  treated  us  while  we 
have  been  with  you." 

A  few  months  ago,  Brother  Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  our  Scout  Leader, 
was  chosen  as  morale  officer  to  go  to  Europe  with  the  Boy  Scouts 
selected  from  all  over  the  United  States.  Some  objected  to  a  "Mor- 
mon" going  for  this  purpose,  but  the  leaders  of  that  work  -recognized 
through  their  association  with  his,  that  he  was  clean,  that  he  was  a 
leader  and  in  every  way  qualified  to  take  that  responsible  position, 
and  look  after  those  young  fellows  who  were  going  to  visit  Europe. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  "what  God  hath  cleansed  that  call  not 
thou  common."  And  I  want  to  tell  you  that  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  we  have  the  gospel  in  its  purity.  I  am 
sorry  to  say  that  there  ,  are  some  who  profess  to  be  laboring  for  the 
welfare  of  God's  children  who  are  constantly  trying  to  drag  it  into 
the  mire  and  to  cover  it  with  filth.  O,  it  is  a  wonderful  work,  and 
those  who  labor  in  it  unceasingly,  in  faith,  with  a  desire  to  be  help- 
ful, and  to  do  God's  work,  receive  joy  and  satisfaction  in  their  work. 
I  want  to  tell  you  that  I  have  a  testimony  that  this  gospel  is  true. 
I  know  as  well  as  I  know  anything  in  this  world  that  President  Heber 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


J.  Grant  holds  his  position  through  the  will  of  God,  and  that  he  is 
influenced  through  the  Holy  Spirit  which  is  promised  to  all  who  are 
faithful.  I  have  seen  it  manifest,  through  him,  time  and  time  again, 
and  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  he  will  be  successful  in  his  administra- 
tion, in  just  so  far  as  we,  his  brethren  and  his  sisters,  God's  children, 
will  support  him  and  uphold  him  with  our  means,  with  our  faith,  and 
with  our  prayers. 

All  the  world  is  looking  upon  us  as  they  have  never  looked  in  all 
our  history.  Are  we  doing  things  that  will  cause  them  to  distrust,  now 
that  they  are  beginning  to  see  the  good  things?  Let  us  be  "swift  to 
hear,  slow  to  speak,  slow  to  wrath." 

I  get  much  comfort  in  the  statement  made  by  the  Apostle  James, 
a  part  of  which  we  quote  quite  often:  "If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom, 
let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men  liberally,  and  upbraideth 
not;  and  it  shall  be  given  him."  As  a  rule,  we  stop  here,  but  I  think 
the  most  important  part  of  this  quotation  is  that  which  follows :  "But 
let  him  ask  in  faith,  nothing  wavering.  For  he  that  wavereth  is  like  a 
wave  of  the  sea,  driven  with  the  wind  and  tossed.  For  let  not  that 
man  think  that  he  shall  receive  anything  of  the  Lord." 

And  again  we  are  told,  a  double  minded  man  is  unstable  in 
all  his  ways.  Let  us  not  be  double  minded ;  and  when  we  are  in  doubt, 
let  us  go  to  God  in  faith,  nothing  wavering;  let  our  lives  be  such 
that  our  houses  are  in  order,  that  we  are  in  condition  to  go  to  God 
and  ask  for  his  blessings.  I  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  if 
we  will  do  this,  with  faith,  nothing  wavering,  God  will  make  known 
unto  us,  as  individuals,  his  will,  as  it  concerns  us,  and  we  will  know 
and  understand.  He  is  not  forcing  his  doctrine  upon  us,  nor  his  bless- 
ings, and  he  is  not  influencing  us  through  his  Spirit,  except  when  we 
are  in  condition  to  be  influenced. 

Miay  God's  choicest  blessings  rest  upon  us,  I  pray,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  let  us  uphold  the  authorities  of  this  Church,  every  one. 
They  are  men  of  God,  who  are  trying  to  uphold  each  other  and  to 
accomplish  all  that  God  requires  of  them.  So  I  say  again,  let  us 
set  our  houses  in  order,  let  us  take  to  our  homes  the  spirit  of  this 
conference.  O  what  a  wonderful  thing  it  would  be  for  us,  as  a 
people,  if  we  could  at  all  times  earnestly  carry  out  the  instructions 
of  this  conference. 

O  I  tell  you,  while  the  people  of  the  world  are  looking  upon  us 
more  favorably  at  this  time,  if  we  would  carry  out  the  instructions 
we  have  received  during  this  conference,  and  especially  the  text  of 
President  Grant,  "keep  the  commandments,"  it  would  only  be  a  little 
time  until  they  would  be  attracted  by  the  great  influence  we  would 
have  for  good. 

May  God's  choicest  blessings  be  with  us,  I  humbly  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH  121 

The  congregation  sang,  "Praise  to  the  man." 
Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Benjamin  Goddard,  of  the 
Bureau  of  Information. 


THIRD  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

The  third  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  Sun- 
day afternoon  at  2  o'clock,  October  10. 

.  £ 

Elder  Reed  Smoot,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  presided. 

The  music  was  furnished  by  the  Cottonwood  stake  choir,  under 
the  direction  of  Elder  W.  F.  Robinson,  Miss  Bernhetta  Lindsay,  ac- 
companist. 

Choir  sang,  "An  angel  from  on  high." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Frank  B.  Cassidy. 

The  choir  sang,  "Grant  us  peace." 

e 

ELDER  EDWARD  J.  WOOD 

(President  of  the  Alberta  Stake  of  Zion) 

I  am  sure  we  all  appreciate  very  much  the  splendid  meetings  we 
have  enjoyed  during  this  conference  and  the  excellent  words  and 
music  we  have  just  heard.  Singing  is  a  fine  accomplishment  that 
our  people  greatly  appreciate,  and  we  have  good  music  in  all  our 
communities. 

I  am  pleased  to  be  at  conference  again,  though  not  altogether 
with  the  position  that  I  now  occupy.  I  once  heard  a  man  ask  another, 
what  a  vacuum  was.  The  man  was  called  upon  to  address  a  con- 
gregation, and  answer  the  question.  He  said:  "A  vacuum,  I  have  it 
in  my  head,  but  I  can't  explain  it." 

I  am  wondering  if  we  all  believe  the  statement  in  the  hymn, 
that  "an  angel  from  on  high,"  has  visited  us,  and  revealed  the  gospel 
in  its  fulness,  so  that  we  might  better  understand  it  than  we  could 
have  done  by  reading  ancient  scripture.  I  speak  of  this  because  I 
come  from  the  far  north,  Canada. 

We  have  in  course  of  erection  a  very  beautiful  temple.  Over  five 
thousand  people  have  passed  through  that  unfinished  building,  thus 
far  this  year,  from  all  over  the  world.  I  think  of  that  particularly, 
since  I  am  in  the  presence  of  Brother  Smoot,  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  and  our  respected  senator  from  Utah.  His  house  in  Wash- 
ington is  visited  by  many  strangers  who  speak  of  him,  (often  when 
he  does  not  hear  them)  and  the  good  he  does  by  the  courage  he  mani- 
fests in  always  standing  before  the  people  as  a  Latter-day  Saint. 
Only  recently  some  people  coming  through  the  country  said  they  at- 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


tended  meeting  at  his  house  in  Washington.  Brother  Smoot  did  not 
know  of  this.  They  did  not  belong  to  the  Church,  but  they  admired 
the  man  who  is  always  an  apostle.  I  thought  of  that  this  morning, 
while  reading  in  the  paper  that  in  Washington  the  members  of  the 
Church  thought  of  renting  a  hall  instead  of  holding  meetings  in  the 
residence  of  Brother  Smoot.  We  little  know  the  good  we  do  in  en- 
tertaining strangers. 

Let  me  read  just  a  little  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  of  our 
mission.  I  am  pleased  to  see  so  many  of  our  brethren  and  sisters 
here  this  afternoon.  I  notice,  however,  the  absence  of  young  people. 
I  believe  I  address  mostly  this  afternoon  the  parents,  and  without 
desiring  to  take  up  much  of  your  time,  I  wish  to  draw  your  atten- 
tion briefly  to  our  mission  here.  I  with  you  have  spent  many  years 
in  the  mission  field,  aside  from  presiding  with  one  of  my  brethren 
in  one  of  the  stakes  in  Canada.  I  believe  on  us  rests  very  largely 
the  responsibility  of  the  carrying  on  the  work  of  the  Lord;  and  I 
believe  our  sentiments,  our  true  feelings  and  beliefs  are  reflected 
largely  in  our  children ;  and  when  we  hear  the  fear  expressed  that 
young  people  are  not  quite  as  much  interested  as  they  should  be,  I 
turn  critically  to  myself,  and  I  hope  we  will  all  do  the  same  to  our- 
selves this  afternoon.  We  have  had  very  little  trouble,  however,  in 
that  great  country,  Canada,  where  we  have  some  of  the  finest,  most 
stalwart  young  men  and  women  in  all  the  land  of  Zion.  I  believe 
that  as  a  child  is  trained',  not  necessarily  taught,  he  will  be,  to  a  great 
degree,  when  he  becomes  mature.  "Train  up  a  child  in  the  way  he 
should  go,  and  when  he  grows  old  he  will  not  depart  from  it."  There 
is  quite  a  difference  between  training  a  child  and  teaching  it.  Teach- 
ing is  telling,  training  is  not  only  to  tell,  but  to  get  the  child  to  do,  and  to 
know  how  to  do.  I  read  from  the  first  paragraph  of  Section  I  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my  Church,  saith  the  voice  of  him  who 
dwells  on  high,  and  whose  eyes  are  upon  all  men;  yea,  verily  I  say,  hearken 
ye  people  from  afar,  and  ye  that  are  upon  the  islands  of  the  sea,  listen  to- 
gether. 

I  think  of  this  in  connection  with  my  missionary  experiences  in 
the  islands  of  the  sea. 

For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none 
to  escape,  and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall  not  see,  neither  ear  that  shall 
not  hear,  neither  heart  that  shall  not  be  penetrated.  And  the  rebellious 
shall  be  pierced  with  much  sorrow,  for  their  iniquities  shall  be  spoken 
upon  the  housetops,  and  their  secret  acts  shall  be  revealed.  And  the 
voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my  disciples, 
whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days.  And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none 
shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have  commanded  them. 

I  wish  to  tell  you  a  short  experience  of  my  own.  I  was  called  on  a 
third  trip  to  one  of  the  islands,  in  the  days  of  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith.    I  think  of  this  special  prophecy  as  I  remember  the  many  ob- 


ELDER  EDWARD  J.  WOOD  123 


stacles  placed  in  our  way  in  going  to  the  islands.  I  was  called  to  take 
a  special  mission  to  Samoa  and  the  South  Seas.  I  am  a  British  sub- 
ject by  naturalization.  I  could  not  leave  Canada  without  a  passport, 
but  the  President  of  the  Church  had  called  me  to  be  in  Salt  Lake  City 
by  an  appointed  time,  and  asked  if  1  could  come.  I  should  have  obtained 
my  passport  before  answering  the  letter,  but  I  said,  yes,  I  will  be  there. 
Then  I  set  to  work  to  make  good  my  promise  by  applying  through  all 
the  means  available  for  my  passport.  The  time  approached  for  my 
departure,  and  I  could  not  get  across  the  line  without  the  passport, 
but  it  did  not  come  in  time  for  me  to  leave.  I  presented  the  matter  to 
the  Lord  in  prayer.  I  told  him  my  difficulties,  and  I  felt  that  I  must 
make  good  my  word,  and  at  least  make  the  attempt  to  come.  So  I 
boarded  the  train  bound  for  Salt  Lake  City  without  any  passport. 
When  I  arrived  at  the  boundary  line,  the  emigration  officers  asked 
for  my  passport.  I  thought  all  the  time,  "They  shall  go  forth  and  none 
shall  stay  them."  I  thought  of  that,  and  I  wished  that  the  emigration 
officer  believed  as  much  as  I  did  of  its  truth ;  but  he  did  not.  How- 
ever, I  was  somewhat  acquainted  with  him.  He  said,  "I  will  let  you 
go  provided  you  furnish  the  passport  after."  "All  right,"  I  said,  "I 
shall  be  pleased  to  do  it."  When  President  Smith  set  me  apart,  he  told 
me  that  I  should  go.  Now  he  did  not  know  anything  about  my  not 
having  a  passport.  I  knew  it  would  be  more  difficult  to  get  out  of  the 
United  States  than  to  get  in — leaving  the  port  of  San  Francisco  and 
getting  to  an  American  possession  in  Samoa.  I  knew,  or  thought  I  did, 
that  I  must  have  my  passport.  President  Smith,  laying  his  hands  upon 
my  head,  said:  "Brother  Wood,  you  shall  go  upon  your  mission  to 
perform  the  business  to  be  attended  to,  and  return  in  safety."  He  never 
mentioned  any  appointed  time.  All  the  time  he  was  blessing  me  I  was 
wondering  about  my  passport.  I  did  hope  it  would  come.  I  was 
promised  by  our  attorney  that  it  should  be  registered  to  me  in  Salt 
Lake  City  to  be  here  the  day  after  my  arrival.  J  waited,  and  the  next 
day  it  did  not  come.  The  time  came  for  us  to  leave.  At  the  Oregon 
Short  Line  office  I  wired  home,  to  learn  if  any  news  had  been  received 
from  Ottawa,  the  Washington  of  Canada.  I  did  not  get  any  reply.  But 
President  Smith  said  I  should  go ;  here  was  the.  prophecy  and  revela- 
tion that  none  should  stay  the  disciples  from  preaching  the  gospel. 
As  it  mentions  in  the  next  verse :  "Behold,  this  is  mine  authority,  and 
the  authority  of  my  servants,  and  my  preface  unto  the  book  of  my 
commandments,  which  I  have  given  them  to  publish  unto  you,  O  in- 
habitants of  the  earth."  "And  they  shall  go  forth,  and  none  shall  stay 
them,  for  I  the  Lord  have  commanded  them."  The  Lord  had  com- 
manded me,  not  the  emigration  officers  at  all.  So,  I  set  out  on  the 
train  without  my  passport.  But  I  received  a  wire  at  the  station  that 
my  passport  would  be  in  San  Francisco  before  the  steamer  left.  I  felt 
all  right  again.  Well,  we  arrived  in  San  Francisco,  and  went  down  to 
the  emigration  office  the  day  before  the  steamer  sailed.  I  was  there 
without  my  passport.    I  expected  it  would  be  there  that  evening,  but 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


it  did  not  come.  And  the  steamer  was  to  sail,  and  I  was  there  without 
my  passport.  When  the  time  came  to  answer  at  the  emigration  office,  I 
got  in  line,  and  felt  fine,  knowing  it  would  be  all  right,  but  I  did  not 
know  how.  When  I  saw  the  official  ask  the  passengers  for  their  pass- 
ports, and  some  were  refused,  some  were  asked  a  lot  of  questions,  and  I 
did  not  have  my  passport,  I  stood  there  just  as  if  I  had  it,  and  he  did 
not  know  anything  different.  When  my  time  came,  he  said,  "Sit  down  a 
little  while,  Mr.  Wood;  I  will  talk  to  you  later."  Well,  I  knew  it 
would  be  all  right.  Did  you  ever  feel  that  way,  when  you  have  just 
had  the  elders  come  in  to  administer  to  a  sick  child,  and  you  knew 
positively  that  the  child  would  be  healed?  I  felt  these  promises  run- 
ning through  my  mind,  but  how  should  they  be  fulfilled?  When  it 
came  to  my  turn,  the  emigration  officer  said,  "Well,  the  time  is  up, 
you  must  come  to  the  office  tomorrow  at  9.  The  steamer  sails  at 
1,  and  you  come  up,  Mt.  Wood."  The  time  arrived  for  me  to  meet 
again,  in  the  morning,  and  I  was  in  line.  I  felt  all  right,  though  I  did 
not  have  any  passport.  The  emigration  officer  finally  said,  "Let's 
see,  Mr.  Wood,  you  have  got  your  passport,  go  right  on  board  the 
steamer."  I  said,  "Thanks,"  and  I  did  not  have  any  passport  at  all, 
though  I  had  the  commission  from  President  Smith,  which  was  worth 
more  than  all  the  passports  from  all  the  governments  in  the  world. 
But  I  had  yet  a  great  many  difficulties.  I  thought,  "Now,  I  am  on  the 
steamier,  how  am  I  to  get  off?"  The  most  important  part  of  all  is  to 
present  your  documents  or  passports  before  you  leave.  I  had  three 
long  weeks  to  wear  away  before  I  should  land.  The  Purser  takes  a 
kind  of  genealogy  of  each  of  the  people.  When  he  came  to  me,  he 
asked  me  to  sit  down;  and  said,  "Of  course,  you  understand  you  must 
present  your  passport,  Mr.  Wood."  I  said,  "All  right,  I  understand 
it."  "Where  did  you  come  from?"  I  said,  "From  Canada."  He  said, 
"Sit  down,  Mr.  Wood.  I  am  delighted  to  see  you  people  from  Canada 
so  willing  to  go  down  and  preach  the  gospel  to  those  natives."  And 
I  spoke  of  the  gospel  with  him ;  and  he  asked  for  no  passport  at  all. 
Well,  I  had  other  difficulties,  too,  but  I  felt  all  right. 

When  I  arrived  at  Honolulu,  I  escaped  another  very  difficult  sit- 
uation by  making  a  pleasant  gospel  conversation  with  the  emigration 
officer  at  that  port.  Then  we  made  two  thousand  more  miles  to  the 
south.  I  knew  the  most  difficult  time  was  yet  to  come,  that  is,  when 
we  arrived  at  Tutuila.  How  in  the  world  to  work  it  there  I  did 
not  know.  But  I  prayed  to  the  Lord,  not  only  twice  every  day  for 
those  several  weeks,  but  several  times  every  day,  that  other  avenues 
would  be  opened  up  so  that  no  one  could  stay  my  passing. 

I  remember  when  that  steamer  entered  that  most  beautiful  harbor 
which  Mr.  Robert  Louis  Stevenson  named  Pago  Pago,  I  went  up 
on  land,  and  many  of  the  natives  that  I  had  seen  before  met  me,  and 
made  their  characteristic  salutation.  They  were  glad  that  I  had 
come.  I  saw  one  of  our  boys  from  Canada  leading  a  splendid  band, 
and  they  had  come  to  welcome  me.    Then  again  I  began  to  wonder 


ELDER  EDWARD  J.  WOOD 


125 


when  I  would  get  off  again,  and  yet  whenever  I  would  remember  these 
promises,  I  would  take  courage  again.  The  steamer  only  stayed  there 
six  hours,  and  we  were  lined  up  again.  Now  this  was  the  final  get- 
ting through  without  a  passport,  and  I  had  to  buoy  up  my  spirit  to 
meet  the  emergency.  They  came  within  one  of  me,  when  the  emigra- 
tion officer  said,  "Sit  down,  I  want  to  ask  you  a  question."  And 
he  said  to  me,  "Mr.  Wood,  get  your  passport  ready."  "All  right." 
I  had  the  missionary  appointment  from  President  Smith,  I  had  the 
promise,  and  the  prophecy  in  this  revelation,  that  "none  shall  stay 
them."  When  he  had  called  me,  and  it  was  my  turn  to  present  my  pass- 
port, he  turned  to  the  man  next  to  me  and  said,  "Why,  you  are  a 
New  Yorker."  And  this  officer  went  over  and  had  a  conversation 
with  this  man  he  called  the  New  Yorker.  When  he  came  back,  he 
said,  "Let  me  see,  Mr.  Wood,  I  have  had  your  passport  all  right, 
you  may  go  on." 

My  fellow  parents,  we  are  all  just  like  one  large  family,  regard- 
less of  places  of  residence ;  we  are  all  Latter-day  Saints ;  we  are  all  in- 
terested in  one  another.  What  is  a  success  in  Canada  is  courage  to 
you,  and  what  is  your  success  here  may  make  us  feel  well  in  Canada, 
because,  not  like  other  peoples  of  the  world,  we  are  all  members  of 
one  large  family.  I  say  to  you,  that  if,  as  parents,  we  can  win  our  boys 
and  girls  to  righteousness  around  our  family  hearths,  it  is  far  bet- 
ter than  to  place  them  in  the  hands  of  the  Purity  League,  or  even  the 
ward  teachers,  or  any  one  else.  Let  me,  as  the  father  of  my  children, 
and  my  wife  as  their  mother,  win  the  hearts  of  our  boys  and  girls 
at  home,  win  their  confidence,  and  others  will  have  very  little  trouble 
over  them.  I  think  of  it  when  I  see  the  mothers  with  their  babies  on 
their  knees.  Why  they  would  not  think  of  letting  the  little  baby  fall, 
not  for  all  the  world.  They  watch  over  its  every  movement,  fearful 
that  it  might  fall.  Far  easier  it  would  be  to  heal  the  broken  arm  of 
the  infant  than  the  injured  mentality,  the  perverted  heart  of  the 
grown  child  who  often  leaves  his  home  with  very  little  concern  of  his 
parents.  We  are  not  concerned  enough  as  parents  over  our  children. 
When  I  think  again  of  the  Islands,  of  how  those  people  there  teach 
their  children  to  respect  their  parents,  it  is  marvelous  in  the  extreme. 
You  call  those  natives  uncivilized.  I  have  seen  a  young  man  wild,  al- 
most uncooth  in  his  habits,  taken  into  the  council  of  chiefs,  at  the 
death  of  his  father,  and  at  once  he  becomes  dignified,  almost  ma- 
jestic, feeling  the  responsibilty  of  his  father  upon  his  shoulders  in 
the  council  of  chiefs.  It  is  because  the  boy  was  taught  when  he  was 
young,  aye  more,  he  was  trained,  how  to  act  when  he  became  a  man, 
how  to  act  the  chief  that  his  father  was  before  he  died. 

O  the  faith  of  those  natives,  if  we  only  had  it !  If  we  simply 
knew,  if  we  had  the  knowledge  (more  than  faith)  of  the  mission  of 
our  Church  itself,  in  which  we  are  taught  that  when  I  go  into  eternity 
with  my  wife  to  whom  I  am  sealed,  my  joy,  our  joy,  will  not  be  com- 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


plete  until  we  have  in  our  circle  some,  yes,  every  one,  of  our  chil- 
dren.   Let  us  not  wait  until  it  is  too  late. 

I  remember  once  a  woman  on  the  Islands — to  show  you  how  the 
Lord  goes  before  and  with  us,  his  elders  and  servants,  and  after  us, 
on  those  Islands — a  lady  had  a  very  sick  child,  and  when  they  are 
sick  they  have  faith  in  the  power  of  the  Priesthood  to  restore.  We 
had  only  been  there  a  few  weeks.  Nobody  knew  us  there,  did  not  know 
that  we  had  arrived.  A  man  came  up  to  the  house  where  we  were 
holding  service.  He  did  not  understand  us;  he  had  to  speak 
through  an  interpreter;  and  he  said  to  me,  "There  is  a  lady  on  the 
other  Island  with  a  sick  child.  She  wants  you  three  men  to  go  to 
her,  and  heal  her  child."  It  was  right  on  the  verge  of  the  war  there. 
The  first  edict  made  by  the  king  under  the  German  government 
was  that  a  "Mormon"  missionary  who  preached  was  to  be  find  $100 
for  the  first  sermon,  and  for  the  second  he  was  to  be  banished  from 
the  Island.  They  made  that  edict,  and  we  thought  we  were  in  trouble 
till  this  man  said,  that  that  woman  had  asked  that'  we  three  men  go 
unto  her  and  lay  our  hands  upon  her  child  and  the  child  should  recover. 
We  went  out  to  a  palm  tree  and  talked  to  the  Lord  as  I  am  talking 
to  you,  wanting  the  inspiration  of  his  Spirit.  Soon  we  decided  we 
would  go.  After  going  across  a  strait  some  three  miles  in  a  little 
canoe,  expecting  almost  every  moment  that  the  canoe  would  be  over- 
turned, we  arrived.  The  woman  was  standing  in  front  of  her  house. 
She  had  her  handkerchief  to  her  eyes,  and  said,  "I  am  glad  that  you 
have  come.  It  is  all  right.  Here  is  my  child."  And  under  the  sheet 
was  the  body  of  the  child.  We  lifted  that  up  and  saw  the  child, 
and  we  said,  "the  child  is  already  dead,  and  we  covered  it  up  again; 
and  she  hastily  said,  "No,  it  is  not  dead  at  all.  You  do  what  I  saw 
you  do  last  night  in  my  dream,  and  he  will  be  well."  We  asked1  the 
Lord,  "suppose  we  administer  to  this  child,  and  it  does  not  get  well, 
and  they  will  say  you  are  all  evil  spirits.  They  are  a  superstitious 
people."  We  had  no  faith  that  the  child  would  recover.  But  the  un- 
precedented faith  of  this  native  woman  inspired  us  to  do  it.  And  she 
said,  "Have  you  authority  to  do  what  I  saw  you  do?  You  anointed 
that  child  with  oil;  you  laid  your  hands  upon  his  head."  Yes,  we 
had  that  authority.  And  then  I  thought  of  that  passage  that  "my  ser- 
vants must  go  forth,  and  my  authority  shall  be  with  them,  and  none 
shall  stay  them."  I  said,  "Yes,  we  have  that  authority."  Said  she, 
"have  you  the  authority  to  refuse?"  I  said,  "no."  We  anointed  the 
child,  laid  our  hands  upon  it,  covered  it  up,  and  went  away.  The  cy- 
clone came  on,  the  social  condition  of  the  natives  was  upset ;  we  never 
heard  of  the  woman  and  child  for  a  long  while.  I  didn't  expect  to  hear 
from  it,  until  about  a  year  after  when  I  saw  a  number  of  natives  under 
trees,  with  long  knives.  I  saw  them  running  along  beneath  the  trees  in 
their  half-clad  condition.  Then  I  thought  again  that  none  should  stay 
the  preaching  of  this  gospel  So  I  buoyed  myself  up  as  best  I  could,  and 
marched  on.   I  saw  the  natives  surrounding  me  on  all  sides.  and  as  I 


ELDER  EDWARD  J.  WOOD 


127 


came  ,to  a  house  in  that  tropical  forest,  they  commenced  to  get  closer 
to  me,  when  all  at  once  a  woman  marched  out,  and!  said,  "How  do 
you  do,  Brother  Wood  ?"  I  rather  sank  back,  and  said,  "I  don't  know 
you."  "O  yes,  you  do,"  and  she  turned  and  called  a  child  about 
nine  years  of  age.  She  stood  the  child  upon  the  trunk  of  a  tree,  and 
then  she  bore  this  testimony  to  the  great  crowd  of  natives :  "This  child 
is  a  living  testimony  of  the  great  power  of  the  gospel,  and  the  power 
and  authority  held  by  Brother  Wood  and  his  associates.  They  ad- 
ministered to  this  child  /over  two  years  ago.  I  have  never  seen  them 
since,  but  I  know  they  have  the  power  of  God  with  them,  and  all  of 
you  must  listen  to  their  message.  I  am  the  daughter  of  the  high  chief 
of  the  island,  and  you  can  come  to  my  house  and  have  everything 
you  want." 

I  went,  and  the  natives  followed  along,  and  I  sat  up  nearly  all 
night  preaching  to  them.  We  had  a  good  spirit.  I  mention  this  to 
you  to  prove  that  the  divinity  and. power  of  the  Priesthood  is  with  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  today.  But  the  evil  one 
is  ever  present. 

One  morning,  on  one  occasion,  when  I  was  dressing,  I  felt  some- 
thing alive  on  my  neck,  and  I  hit  it  at  once,  and  I  was  bitten?  by  a  cen- 
tipede, one  of  the  most  deadly  of  insects  on  the  Islands.  My  arm 
commenced  to  swell.  The  natives  came  and  said,  "Give  us  your  last 
message ;  you  will  die  within  an  hour."  I  felt  excruciating  pain.  Then 
up  came  the  woman.  The  natives  had  told  her  that  I  was  killed  by  the 
deadly  insect,  and  I  was  there  with  them.  The  woman  came  up  very 
leisurely.  She  shook  my  hand  showing  she  expected  consolation.  She 
said,  "That  is  all  right,  Brother  Wood.  Have  you  got  any  of  that  oil 
with  you?"  I  said,  "Yes,  get  my  valise.  "Now,"  she  said,  "Do  what 
you  did  to  my  child,  and  you  will  be  all  right."  I  felt  when  she  said 
that,  that  I  positively  knew  it  would  be  so.  I  anointed  my  hand,  and 
the  swelling  left,  just  like  taking  a  glove  off  my  hand,  and  she  turned 
to  the  natives  who  had  gathered  around,  and  said,  "As  I  told  you,  the 
Lord  is  with  this  young  man,  and  his  Church,  and  his  people." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  inspire  this  faith,  this  confidence,  in 
the  hearts  of  our  growing  children,  and  never  get  away  from  the  fact 
that  we  are  responsible  for  them  in  their  future  life.  God  bless  you. 
Amen. 


ELDER  WM.  H.  MENDENHALL 

(President  of  the  Bannock  Stake  of  Zion) 

My  beloved  brethren :  It  is  an  inspiration  to  me  to  stand  before 
this  congregation,  to  look  into  your  faces,  and  to  listen  to  the  testi- 
mony and  the  teachings  of  the  presiding  authorities  during  this  con- 
ference.  And  I  have  been  made  to  feel  that  the  hand  of  the  Lord  is 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


visible,  and  that  he  is  leading  and  directing  the  brethren  of  the  priesc- 
hood  that  preside  over  us  in  this  Church. 

Permit  me  for  a  few  moments  to  call  your  attention  again  to  the 
revelation  contained  in  the  first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
that  part  that  has  been  read  and  referred  to  by  President  Wood.  The 
Lord  inspired  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  this  revelation,  given  be- 
fore the  organization  of  the  Church,  when  he  declared  that  this  gospel, 
the  word  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  carried  as  a  witness  unto  all  nations 
by  the  men  and  women  who  may  be  called  in  the  last  day. 

When  Brother  Wood  was  relating  his  experience,  showing  that 
none  should  stay  the  hand  of  the  Lord  in  carrying  out  his  purposes,  it 
reminded  me  of  an  incident  in  my  missionary  experience,  when  I  la- 
bored on  the  Sandwich  Islands.  It  was  customary  at  that  time,  when 
the  missionaries  were  going  from  one  island  to  another,  to  present 
to  the  officials  their  missionary  certificate,  which  we  always  carried 
in  our  pockets.  I  remember  being  sent  out  to  one  of  the  islands,  when 
I  first  lived  in  that  mission,  and  after  I  had  taken  my  place  on  the 
boat  the  officer  came  around  inquiring  who  we  were,  and  asking  for 
our  missionary  certificates.  I  presented  my  missionary  certificate  to 
him,  but  he  did  not  want  to  accept  it,  and  he  told  me  I  would  have 
to  go  ashore.  And  I  argued  with  him,  that  I  had  been  called  of  the 
Lord  as  a  missionary,  that  I  had  my  missionary  certificate  signed  by 
President  Wilford  Woodruff,  and  I  was  entitled  to  go  where  I  had 
been  sent  by  the  president  of  that  mission.  While  we  were  arguing, 
the  steamer  weighed  anchor  and  began  to  leave  the  shore ;  and  in  our 
heated  argument  he  saw  that  was  his  last  chance  to  get  back  on  to 
the  wharf;  so  he  jumped  on  to  the  wharf,  and  I  remained  on  the 
boat.  It  was  too  far  for  me  to  jump,  so  I  went  on  my  mission,  as  I 
had  been  directed  by  the  president  of  that  mission.  So  I  know,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  hand  of  the  Lord  is  in  the  ministry  of 
this  gospel  in  the  nations  of  the  earth.  And  the  Lord  has  said  in  this 
revelation,  that  this  gospel  shall  be  preached  in  all  the  world  by  his 
disciples  who  shall  be  chosen  in  the  last  days.  They  are  gone  forth. 
The  gospel  has  been  preached  in  almost  all  the  nations  of  the  world. 
Men  and  women  are  accepting  its  principles.  They  are  becoming 
members  of  the  Church,  full  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  a  desire 
to  serve  him  and  keep  his  commandments. 

There  is  a  certain  responsibility  rests  upon  us,  in  respect  to  our 
attendance  at  these  conferences.  I  very  often  wonder  in  my  mind,  in 
my  visits  to  these  conferences,  why  so  many  people  from  all  over 
Zion,  and  from  the  missions  in  the  world,  can  spend  their  time  and 
their  means  attending  these  conferences,  and  I  wonder  what  benefit 
we  derive  from  the  attendance  at  the  conferences.  The  Lord  com- 
manded through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  that  these  conferences 
should  be  held,  that  the  people  might  come  up  to  the  center  place 
of  Zion  and  hear  the  word  of  the  Lord  from  the  presiding  authorities 
of  his  Church,  that  their  faith  in  the  work  of  the  Lord  might  be 
strengthened,  that  our  determination  may  increase  to  serve  the  Lord 


ELDER  WM,  H.  MENDENHALL 


129 


and  keep  his  commandments.  So  we  come  up  here,  and  listen  to  the 
presiding  authorities  of  the  Church,  the  presidents  of  missions  and 
brethren  who  are  called  upon  from  time  to  time  to  teach  us  the  word 
of  the  Lord.  It  becomes  our  duty,  in  order  that  the  purposes  of  the 
Lord  might  be  fulfilled  in  these  conference  gatherings,  that  when  we 
shall  go  to  our  homes,  when  we  go  to  the  different  stakes  and  wards 
of  Zibn,  that  we  shall  reflect  the  spirit,  the  admonition,  the  teaching, 
that  we  receive  at  these  conferences  in  our  lives,  that  by  so  doing  the 
brethren  and  sisters  who  are  not  able  to  attend  these  conferences 
might  be  benefited  in  a  general  way  for  our  having  come  up  to  wor- 
ship the  Lord.  Thus  I  understand  why  so  many  of  us  take  advantage 
of  this  opportunity  of  gathering  together. 

There  is  a  great  deal  of  work  for  us  to  do  in  the  Church.  We 
make  every  effort  to  send  our  boys  into  the  mission  fields  to  preach 
the  gospel.  We  make  every  sacrifice  necessary  that  they  may  be  sus- 
tained while  in  the  world  preaching  the  gospel.  We  rejoice  that 
they  have  been  considered  worthy  by  the  presiding  authorities  of 
the  Church  to  go  out  into  the  world  to  preach  the  gospel.  Yet  right 
here  at  home,  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  in  the  wards,  there  is  ample 
missionary  work  for  us  all.  Among  our  neighbors,  among  our  asso- 
ciates and  friends,  an  opportunity  presents  itself  for  us  to  labor,  to 
do  missionary  work.  In  this  connection,  I  desire  to  read  from  the 
fourth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  Joseph  Smith,  Senior, 
early  in  the  beginning  of  this  work,  in  the  year  1829,  was  full  of  a 
desire  to  promote  the  work  of  the  Lord  as  in  part  it  had  been  re- 
vealed to  his  son,  Joseph  the  prophet.  Joseph,  Senior,  accepted  the 
testimony  of  his  son.  Desirous  of  helping  in  this  great  work,  he 
went  to  his  son,  and  he  said:  "My  boy,  what  can  I  do  to  help  this 
work  along?  What  can  I  do  that  the  same  Spirit  of  the  Lord  that  I 
possess,  that  has  been  manifest  in  your  ministry,  might  be  felt  by 
all  the  people  of  the  earth?  What  may  I  do  to  help  you  to  accom- 
plish this  work?"  And  the  Lord  said,  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith : 

Now,  behold,  a  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  among  the 
children  of  men;  therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God,  see 
that  you  serve  him  with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind,  and  strength,  that  ye 
may  stand  blameless  before  God  at  the  last  day;  therefore,  if  ye  have 
desires  to  serve  God,  ye  are  called  to  the  work,  for  behold,  the  field  is 
white  already  to  harvest,  and  lo,  he  that  thrusteth  in  his  sickle  with  his 
might,  the  same  layeth  up  in  store  that  he  perish  not,  but  bringeth  salva- 
tion to  his  soul;  and  faith,  hope,  charity  and  love,  with  an  eye  single  to 
the  glory  of  God,  qualify  him  for  the  work.  Remember  faith,  virtue, 
knowledge,  temperance,  patience,  brotherly  kindness,  goodness,  charity, 
humility,  diligence.  Ask  and  ye  shall  receive,  knock  and  it  shall  be 
opened  unto  you.    Amen.  (Doc.  and  Cov.  Sec.  4.) 

This  is  the  admonition,  the  instruction,  of  the  Lord  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to  his  father,  and  it  applies  to  us  in  our 
mjinistry  and  service  in  this  Church.  If  we  have  a  desire  to  serve 
the  Lord,  we  are  called  to  the  ministry,  we  are  called  to  set  ex- 
amples that  will  be  worthy  of  imitation.    We  are  called  to  use  our 

5 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


hands  and  the  powers  of  our  minds  in  the  advancement  of  the  work 
of  the  Lord  among  our  associates  and  friends ;  and  the  Lord  charges 
us  with  the  responsibility  of  being  kind,  full  of  love,  and  full  of  his 
Spirit  in  our  ministry  among  the  people,  that  we  shall  be  charitable 
towards  each  other,  that  we  shall  uphold  the  authorities  of  the  Church, 
that  we  shall  in  no  way  find  fault  with  them  or  tear  down  their 
character,  but  that  we  shall  sustain  them  in  our  ministry  and  labors, 
with  our  faith,  prayers  and  determination,  to  the  end  that  the  work  of 
the  Lord  may  grow  and  increase  in  the  earth,  and  that  it  shall  ful- 
fil its  destiny  among  the  people. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  of  the  gospel.  I  know  that  it  is  true  ■ 
I  have  no  doubt  in  my  mind.  I  am  in  harmony  with  the  presiding 
authorities  of  the  Church.  I  uphold  and  sustain  them  in  their  work. 
And  when  I  was  called  upon  a  mission,  a  number  of  years  ago,  ! 
remember  that  President  Heber  J.  Grant  set  me  apart  to  labor  as  a 
missionary  in  the  Sandwich  Islands ;  and  I  remember  in  blessing  me 
he  placed  his  hands  upon  my  head  and  said,  "Brother  Mendenhall, 
if  you  will  but  serve  the  Lord,  do  your  duty,  rely  upon  him,  the  Lord 
will  give  you  a  knowledge  of  his  work.  The  Lord  will  enable  you 
to  do  much  good  while  you  labor  upon  the  Islands,  and  you  shall 
come  home  in  safety.  The  Lord  will  prosper  you  so  long  as  you 
accomplish  the  duties  of  your  mission,  and  keep  his  commandments." 
I  want  to  testify  to  you  that  the  words  of  the  prophet  upon  my  head 
have  been  fulfilled.  The  Lord  gave  me  a  knowledge  of  the  Hawaiian 
language.  He  gave  me  power  and  influence  among  the  people,  and  I 
believe  I  was  able  to  do  some  good ;  and  upon  my  return  home,  I 
have  endeavored  to  devote  my  services  to  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and 
I  thank  him  for  the  blessings  that  I  enjoy.  This  is  my  testimony  in 
relation  to  this  work  that  has  been  established  on  the  earth  for  the 
salvation  of  the  children  of  men. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  do  our  duty,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  violin  duet  was  rendered  by  Sisters  Shermer  and  Lindsay,  of 
the  choir. 

ELDER  PETER  M.  HANSEN 

(President  of  the  Bear  River  Stake  of  Zion) 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  have  greatly  rejoiced  during  this  con- 
ference in  the  splendid  music  that  we  have  heard,  and  in  the  admo- 
nitions and  counsel  that  we  have  received  from  the  servants  of  the 
Lord  who  have  addressed  us.  The  spirit  of  humility,  peace,  and  love 
that  has  actuated  the  speakers  has  certainly  made  me  rejoice  that  we 
live  in.  this  day  and  age  of  the  world  when  the  gospel  has  been  re- 
vealed, and  that  we  have  the  privilege  of  living  and  enjoying  the 
splendid  privileges  that  are  ours,  as  Latter-day  Saints.  We  rejoice 
in  these  privileges,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  I  feel  to  honor  the 


ELDER  PETER  M.  HANSEN 


131 


Lord  and  to  keep  his  commandments,  and  feel  that  our  spirits  are  in 
tune  with  the  inspiration  that  we  have  received  from'  the  brethren 
in  authority  in  the  Church.  I  hope  we  all  feel  grateful  for  these  bless- 
ings, and  that  these  things  will  spur  us  on  to  live  nearer  to  the  Lord 
in  the  future  than  we  have  in  the  past. 

In  our  stake  of  Zion  we  have  been  doing  some  little  missionary 
work  the  past  year  among  the  people.  Special  missionaries  have  been 
called ;  and  in  visiting  among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  we  found  too 
many  people  in  our  stake  of  Zion  who  did  not  pray  in  their  families, 
nor  teach  prayer  in  their  homes,  consequently  their  children  were  not 
becoming  accustomed  to  pray.  1  fear  this  condition  is  too  prevalent 
among  us  as  Latter-day  Saints,  and  consequently  many  of  us  have  not 
the  spirit  of  humility  and  love  for  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  that 
we  ought  to  have  burning  in  our  souls.  We  also  found  too  many 
who  were  not  observing  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  as  we  have  heard 
in  this  conference.  We  found  that  too  many  of  our  acting  teachers 
in  the  stake  were  not  observing  this  commandment.  When  they  went 
into  the  homes  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  they  could  not  teach  this 
principle,  because  they  were  not  observing  it  themselves.  As  a  rule 
we  found  our  young  people  living  nearer  up  to  this  principle  than 
many  of  our  older  brethren  and  sisters.  Hence  we  have  found  it 
necessary  to  take  up  this  labor  among  the  people  in  our  stake  of 
Zion.  I  testify  to  you  that  we  have  met  with  splendid  results.  We 
have  talked  over  the  reports  received  from:  different  wards,  two  or 
three  times  now.  We  find  a  little  improvement  each  time  these  re- 
ports come  in,  and  the  brethren  and  sisters  will  say,  "you  shall  not 
have  to  report  again  that  we  are  not  observing  this  splendid  law." 

As  we  have  heard  during  this  conference,  this  is  a  splendid  law 
for  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  it  has  been  preached  to  us  now,  as  we 
have  heard  from  Brother  Lyman,  for  eighty  years,  and  yet  I  fear 
that  we  are  no  nearer,  perhaps,  in  observing  this  law  than  we  were 
many  years  ago.  To  me  it  is  a  glorious  principle.  It  is  both  our 
temporal  salvation  and  financial. 

I  attended  the  fair  last  Saturday,  and  saw  a  great  many  blessings 
that  the  Lord  has  showered  upon  us,  in  our  crops  and  in  our  herds ; 
we  can  almost  produce  everything  that  we  need  here  in  this  state- — 
beautiful  fruits  and  vegetables  and  everything  else  that  we  need.  It 
seems  to  me  that  there  should  not  be  an  excuse  for  not  living  well  up 
to  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  One  can  always  single  out  a  man  who  is 
addicted  to  tobacco.  He  is  not  particular  about  his  person,  as  a  gen- 
eral rule.  Hence  we  ought  to  take  heed  to  this  counsel'  so  often  re- 
ceived from  the  brethren  and  sisters  who  live  in  harmony  with  this  law. 

I  remember  Brother  Francis  M.  Lyman  came  to  our  stake  on 
one  occasion,  and  said :  "Now,  Latter-day  Saints,  come  out  this  after- 
noon, and  I  will  teach  you  how  to  get  rich."  Well,  we  had  a  pretty 
good  turn-out  of  the  people  and  he  told  them :  "No  matter  what  you 
make,  what  you  produce,  put  away  25  cents  every  day,  and  you  will 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


see  how  it  will  amount  up,  and  you  will  prosper  and  the  Lord  will 
be  with  you  and  bless  you." 

This  has  been  a  prosperous  year  for  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We 
have  enjoyed  prosperity,  and  we  have  enjoyed  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  generally,  and  the  only  way  that  I  can  feel  satisfied  is  by  re- 
membering the  Lord  and  giving  unto  him  that  which  belongs  to  him 
in  tithes  and  offerings. 

I  feel  grateful  for  the  privilege  we  enjoy  as  Latter-day  Saints. 
The  spirit  of  peace,  love  and  union,  I  pray  may  be  increased  among 
us,  that  we  may  have  a  desire  to  keep  the  commandments,  and  live  in 
harmony  with  the  knowledge  we  have  received  and  the  privileges  thai 
we  enjoy.  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us  and  inspire  our  minds, 
that  we  may  live  according  to  these  practical  principles  of  the  gospel, 
which  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  anthem  "Hosannah"  was  rendered  by  the  choir. 


ELDER  GEORGE  W.  McCUNE 

(President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission) 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters:  I  am  glad  indeed  to  be  with  you 
today,  and  partake  of  the  wonderful  spirit  present.  A  little  story 
comes  to  my  mind.  Once  upon  a  time  a  splendid  old  couple  lived 
in  a  community,  and  had  won  the  respect  of  all  their  neighbors;  and 
their  neighbors  were  wont  to  show  their  love  for  this  goodly  couple 
on  various  occasions.  And  at  one  time  they  presented  them  with  a 
nice  jar  of  peaches,  put  up  in  brandy  sauce.  It  seemed  that  this 
good  couple  did  not  like  peaches,  and  when  they  acknowledged  the 
token,  they  wrote  a  small  note  like  this :  "Dear  friends,  we  regret 
to  say  that  we  did  not  like  the  peaches,  but  we  did  enjoy  the  spirit 
in  which  they  were  sent." 

I  earnestly  desire  that  I  may  speak  to  you  a  few  minutes  under 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  which  my  brethren  preceding  me  have  enjoyed, 
so  that  you  will  enjoy  the  spirit  with  which  I  speak  to  you. 

I  testify  to  you  that  the  Spirit  of  God,  like  a  fire,  is  burning; 
and  if  you  have  failed  to  enjoy  it  here  this  afternoon,  it  is  not  the 
fault  of  the  brethren  who  have  spoken  to  you,  and  it  is  not  the  fault 
of  the  music  that  has  been  rendered,  for  I  do  know  that  the  Spirit  of 
God  is  here,' and  it  is  the  sweetest  thing  in  all  the  world.  There  is 
no  place  in  all  the  world  where  I  would  rather  be  than  here,  today — or 
rather,  just  a  few  steps  from  here,  where  I  expect  soon  to  be. 

I  bring  you  greetings  from  your  sons  and  daughters  who  are 
laboring  in  the  Eastern  States  mission.  I  am  glad  to  report  that 
they  enjoy  a  wonderful  spirit,  that  God  is  with  them,  that  they  are 
doing  a  wonderful  work.    I  feel  that  we  all  need  the  gospel  preached 


ELDER  GEORGE  W.  McCUNE 


133 


unto  us,  and  I  know  of  no  one  in  all  the  world'  who  can  impress 
you  more  thoroughly  with  the  need  of  a  genuine  repentance  and  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth  than  those  splendid  sons  and  daughters  whom 
you  have  sent  out  into  the  world,  and  I  hope  you  will  send  back  to 
them  a  message  of  good  cheer. 

I  was  delighted  in  hearing  President  Wood  relate  some  mani- . 
festations  of  God's  power,  for  it  is  a  fact  that  our  Father  in  heaven 
has  not  changed,  and  he  is  pleased  to  bestow  his  power  upon  his 
servants  who  will  serve  him.  He  is  the  same  yesterday,  today  and 
forever.  We  read  of  the  wonderful  blessings  he  poured  out  upon 
his  people  in  ancient  times,  and  I  testify  that  he  is  willing  to  do 
the  same  to  us,  if  we  abide  by  his  laws  which  called  down  the  bless- 
ings of  heaven  upon  them.  I  testify  to  you  that  we  are  enjoying  the 
same  gifts  and  blessings  of  God,  for  they  do  follow  them'  that  believe. 

We  enjoy  many  manifestations  of  God's  glorious  Spirit  in  the 
mission  field,  and  we  do  at  home,  I  realize.  We  recently  had  a  little 
controversy — but  I  wish  to  stop  here  and  state  that  we  do  not  con- 
tend with  the  people  of  the  world.  We  have  no  contention  whatever 
with  the  people  of  the  world,  but  we  have  a  beautiful  message  of  life 
and  salvation  to  give  to  them,  a  message  which  gives  no  offense ; 
it  is  a  positive  inspiration  for  all  humanity.  We  do  not  contend  for 
it,  but  give  it  to  the  world  for  their  acceptance  or  rejection. 

Upon  one  occasion,  lately,  a  learned  gentleman  saw  fit  to  chal- 
lenge our  statements  while  speaking  to  a  splendid  congregation,  and 
he  got  up  and  raved  about  the  so-called  "Mormons"  being  the 
richest  people  in  all  the  world.  He  also  said  that  we  had  come  out 
there  to  get  their  women  to  take  them  back  to  Utah,  but  he  seemed 
to  feel  very  bad  that  the  "Mormon"  people  were  the  richest  people  in 
all  the  world,  and  thought  that  was  a  terrible  crime.  I  saw  fit  to 
answer  him.  I  told  him  that  we  came  not  for  their  women,  but  I 
had  to  plead  guilty  to  the  second  charge  that  our  people  were  the 
richest  people  in  all  the  world.  He  had  made  the  statement  that  we 
owned  many  stocks  and  bonds,  and  one  thing  and  another,  but  he  did 
not  state  our  original  riches.  I  proceeded  to  tell  him  that  over  85  per 
cent  of  our  people  own  their  own  homes,  and  the  land,  not  merely 
the  furniture  and  fixtures  in  their  homes,  but  the  ground  on  which 
their  homes  were  erected,  and  I  pleaded  guilty  to  that.  They  owned 
many  good  things  of  a  worldly  nature,  and  I  called  their  attention  to 
them,  that  their  acquirements  had  been  accomplished  in  the  midst  of 
drivings  and  persecutions,  from  the  time  the  Church  was  organized 
until  the  time  that  we  reached  the  valleys  of  the  mountains,  and  even 
after  that  our  Church  property  had  been  confiscated.  And  I  called 
his  attention  to  the  fact  that  we  had  to  meet  the  same  taxation  as  other 
people,  and  we  had  also  made  the  same  contributions,  fully  up  to  the 
standard  of  any  of  them,  in  the  recent  war ;  and,  in  addition  to 
these,  our  young  men,  to  a  very  large  number,  had  given  at  least  two 
years  of  their  time  in  preaching  the  gospel,  and  they  had  borne  their 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


expenses  while  doing  so,  and  that  this  necessitates  taking  them  away 
from  the  various  business  interests  of  the  community;  and  in  addition 
to  this  we  had  paid  one-tenth  of  all  that  God  had  given  us,  back  to 
him ;  and  in  the  face  of  all  this  we  were  the  richest  people  in  the  world. 

I  then  told  them  how  it  had  been  accomplished.  1  told  them  that 
they  were  not  the  greatest  riches  we  possessed,  but  our  greatest  riches 
consisted  in  having  a  testimony  that  God  lives,  that  we  know  that  God 
has  spoken  in  these  last  days,  that  we  are  willing  to  accept  his  won- 
derful revelations ;  and  through  that  means  we  had  received  and  ac- 
cepted the  gospel  which  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  not 
only  a  salvation  in  the  far  off  eternities,  but  an  immediate  salvation, 
so  far  as  we  would  live  it,  and  we  were  being  saved  temporally.  In 
the  words  of  the  speaker  I  was  answering,  we  were  the  richest  people 
in  all  the  world.  We  had  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  not  only 
intellectually  but  morally.  And  I  rejoiced  exceedingly  in  being  able 
to  proclaim  these  things. 

I  rejoice  in  being  present  here  this  afternoon.  There  has  been 
a  wonderful  spirit  present.  I  hope  1  have  said  nothing  to  detract 
from  what  has  been  said  previously.  I  felt  at  the  conclusion  of  the 
brethren's  talk  that  the  feeling  was  almost  too  sacred  to  disturb.  It 
is  a  wonderful  thing  to  be  able  to  come  together  and  partake  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  as  we  have  today,  and  I  hope  that  we  will  strive 
earnestly  to  take  the  message  that  has  been  given  to  us,  and  live  it, 
for  I  know  it  has  been  an  inspiration  to  all  of  us. 

After  listening  to  the  key-note  speech  of  President  Grant,  and 
the  addresses  of  the  other  brethren,  I  was  telling  some  of  my  folks, 
at  luncheon,  that  I  felt  that  they  were  speaking  to  me  personally,  and 
the  others  responded  with  the  same  thought,  that  they  felt  that  the 
message  was  to  them  directly.  I  hope  we  will  all  go  to  our  homes 
feeling  earnestly  the  desire  in  our  hearts  that  we  will  keep  the  com- 
mandments, that  we  will  strive  to  manifest  the  spirit  of  love  and  char- 
ity in  all  our  walks  and  talks  in  life. 

In  the  world,  the  greatest  difficulty  we  meet  is  the  sense  of  in- 
difference, and  after  we  have  reasoned  with  people,  and  tried  to  explain 
the  plan  of  salvation  to  them,  they  almost  universally  come  back  with 
the  saying,  "Well,  we  are  all  on  the  road  to  the  same  goal ;  you  are 
taking  one  road,  and  we  are  taking  another,  but  we  are  all  destined 
to  reach  the  same  goal."  What  a  mistake !  The  scriptures  teach  noth- 
ing of  the  kind,  but  the  Master  said,  there  is  only  one  way,  and 
he  that  entereth  by  another  way  is  to  be  accounted  as  a  thief  and  a 
robber.  We  have  gone  in  through  the  narrow  gate  into  the  straight 
and  narrow  way,  and  we  cannot  afford  to  step  to  the  right  to  take 
advantage  of  our  brethren ;  we  cannot  step  to  the  left  to  steal  or  to 
lie  or  to  disobey  the  commandments  of  God.  We  must  keep  on  in 
the  straight  and  narrow  way  if  we  want  to  become  partakers  of  the 
kingdom  of  God.  I  hope  that  we  will  strive  earnestly;  and  these  ex- 
hortations I  want  to  direct  to  myself  even  more  than  to  you. 


ELDER  GEORGE  W.  McCUNE 


135 


I  rejoice  exceedingly  that  I  have  been  accounted  worthy  to  go 
out  and  preach  the  gospel  of  my  Redeemer.  I  realize  that  it  is  an 
opportunity.  It  is  a  blessed  privilege  to  be  given  the  opportunity  to 
go  out  into  the  vineyard  and  work  for  the  kingdom  of  God.  I  find 
that  some  are  doing  that  at  home.  I  was  exceedingly  gratified  with  the 
work  that  the  father  of  one  of  our  missionaries  is  doing  in  Ogden,  and 
I  had  heard  of  it  before.  He  is  sending  his  friends  the  Liahona 
tracts,  and  other  literature,  as  well  as  his  own  testimony,  and  I  was 
glad  to  find  that  he  has  the  same  sweet  joy  and  satisfaction  in  doing 
these  things  at  home  that  we  enjoy  out  in  the  world.  And  I  exhort 
you,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  live  up  to  this  opportunity  so  far  as  it 
is  in  your  power,  for  it  is  a  privelege  and  blessing,  and  we  are  all  en- 
listed to  it. 

I  do  not  desire  to  take  more  of  your  time  this  afternoon.  I  feel 
that  it  would  not  be  right,  inasmuch  as  we  have  Brother  Smoot  and 
others  that  we  would  all  like  to  listen  to.  As  for  me,  I  have  heard 
a  definition  of  a  good  speech  that  I  like.  The  British  premier  says 
there  are  three  fundamentals  to  a  good  speech,  and  I  find  much  con- 
solation in  his  definition,  because  it  is  the  only  one  that  I  have  hopes 
of  applying  to  myself.  He  says,  the  first  is  to  stand  up,  the  second 
is  to  speak  up,  and  the  third  is  to  shut  up.  The  blessings  of  the 
Lord  I  earnestly  pray  for  us  all,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

I  have  enjoyed  the  spirit  of  this  conference  greatly.  I  thank  my 
heavenly  Father  for  the  privilege  I  have  had  of  listening  to  the  won- 
derful testimonies  that  have  been  borne,  and  the  explanation  of  the 
sayings  of  the  Savior,  and  the  revelations  of  our  heavenly  Father.  And 
I,  like  every  one  who  has  attended  the  conference,  without  a  doubt 
in  our  minds,  feel  that  the  present  conference  is  among  the  best  con- 
ferences ever  held  by  the  Church. 

I  have  not  the  time  to  take  up  any  special  subject  as  the  adjourn- 
ment hour  is  nearly  at  hand. 

BAPTISM    FOR   THE  DEAD 

Yesterday  I  asked  Hon.  Albert  J.  Beveridge  of  Indiana,  to  at- 
tend the  afternoon  session  of  our  conference.  We  came  into  the 
temple  block  by  the  east  gate,  and  as  we  walked  down  the  path  to- 
wards the  tabernacle,  he  stopped  and  looked  at  the  temple.  He  asked 
when  the  "Mormon"  people  began  to  build  this  magnificent  structure. 
I  told  him  the  erection  of  the  building  was  begun  in  the  year  1853, 
long  before  there  was  a  railroad  in  this  country,  and  at  a  time  when 
the  people  had  very  little  of  this  world's  goods.  I  called  his  attention 
to  the  fact  that  the  building  of  the  temple  was  an  evidence  of  the 
faithfulness  and  loyalty  of  the  people  to  the  work  established  by  God 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


in  this  dispensation.  It  did  not  take  so  much  ready  money,  but  it 
did  take  a  spirit  of  determination  and  sacrifice  that  could  only  come 
through  a  knowledge  that  they  were  working  in  the  service  of  God. 
Said  he,  "What  do  they  use  the  temple  for?"  I  told  him  of  the  sacred 
ordinance.-;  of  baptism  for  the  dead;  I  told  him  of  the  eternal 
marriage  covenant,  and  that  our  people  believed  in  both,  and -the 
vicarious  work  that  was  preached  by  the  apostles  of  old  was  attended 
to  in  our  temples.  He  said,  "What  do  you  mean  bv  baptism  for 
the  dead?"  Said  I,  "Senator  Beveridge,  we  mean  this,  that  we  are 
carrying  out  the  same  instructions  in  regard  to  this  wonderful  princi- 
ple as  taught  in  the  days  of  the  Savior  and  his  ancient  apostles.  I 
referred  him  to  Paul's  letter  to  the  Corinthians.  And  he  said,  "That 
is  wonderful.  Are  there  any  other  churches  in  all  the  world  today 
that  preach  and  practice  it?"  "No."  "Well,  tell  me  the  operation." 
I  said,  "Suppose  my  great-grandfather  had  lived  at  a  time  (which 
he  did)  before  the  gospel,  as  revealed  in  this  dispensation,  had  ever 
been  preached,  or  a  testimony  of  an  elder  of  the  Church  had  ever 
been  heard ;  some  relative  can  be  baptized  for  him.  And  that  is  a 
great  part  of  the  work  that  is  done  in  the  temple." 

IMPRESSIVENESS  OF  THE  LAIE  TEMPLE  AND  GROUNDS 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the  world  will  yet  understand  the  work 
in  our  temples  in  carrying  out  the  revelations  and  teaching  of  the 
Master;  and  sometime  in  the  near  future  it  will  be  a  potent  power 
to  bring  the  people  not  only  to  an  investigation  of  the  gospel,  but  it 
will  bring  them  to  a  realization  that  it  is  of  God. 

I  had  an  experience  upon  the  boat  not  long  ago  in  coming  from 
Honolulu.  I  have  not  the  time  to  go  into  it,  but  it  was  with  a  min- 
ister of  the  gospel  telling  me  that  I  could  find  nowhere  in  the  Bible 
that  he  believed  in  or  taught  from  a  reference  to  the  principle  of 
baptism  for  the  dead.  This  conversation  was  the  result  of  his  recent 
visit  to  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  and  in  his  drive  around  the  Island  of 
Oahu,  he  had  visited  the  temple  grounds  at  Laie.  And,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  there  have  been  few  visitors  to  that  island  since  the  com- 
pletion of  the  temple,  and  I  doubt  ever  will  be,  but  who  will  stand  in 
front  of  that  magnificent  building,  that  wonderful  approach  to  the 
house  of  the  Lord,  and  receive  an  impression  of  the  sincerity  at  least, 
if  not  the  knowledge,  of  this  people,  in  temple  work. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH'S  DEDICATION  OF  THE  TEMPLE  SITE 

Five  years  ago  I  had  the  privilege  of  going  with  President  Smith 
and  Bishop  Nibley  to  the  Hawaiian  Islands.  Somehow  or  other,  my 
heart  goes  out  to  those  people.  They  are  of  the  blood  of  Israel,  and 
the  faith  spoken  of  by  Brother  Wood  as  found  in  the  people  of  Samoa 
is  enjoyed'  by  the  natives  of  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  where  the  power 
and  manifestation  of  God  have  been  shown  among  that  people.  I 
attended  a  gathering  of  the  people  at  Laie  in  honor  of  President 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


137 


Smith,  in  June,  1915.  At  the  close  of  the  exercises,  President  Smith 
came  to  me  and  said,  "Reed,  I  want  you  to  take  a  walk  with  me." 
And  as  we  went  out  of  the  door,  he  said  to  Bishop  Nibley,  "I  wish 
you  would  accompany  us."  I  never  saw  a  more  beautiful  night  in  all 
my  life;  the  surroundings  were  perfect.  You  who  have  been  at  Laie 
know  the  surroundings ;  all  nature  smiles.  We  walked  toward  the 
meetinghouse.  Nothing  was  said  of  what  we  were  going  for  until 
we  stood  at  the  back  of  the  meetinghouse,  and  President  Smith  then 
said :  "Brethren,  this  is  the  birthday  of  President  ISrigham  Young, 
June  1,  1915.  I  feel  impressed  to  dedicate  this  ground  for  the  erec- 
tion of  a  temple  to  God,  for  a  place  where  the  peoples  of  the  Pacific 
Isles  can  come  and  do  their  temple  work.  I  have  not  presented  this 
to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  or  to  my  counselors ;  but  if  you  think 
there  would  be  no  objection  to  it,  I  think  now  is  the  time  to  dedicate 
the  ground."  I  have  heard  President  Smith  pray  hundreds  of  times. 
He  has  thrilled  my  soul  many  times  with  his  wonderful  spirit  of 
prayer  and  his  supplications  to  our  heavenly  Father.  But  never  in 
all  my  life  did  I  hear  such  a  prayer.  The  very  ground  seemed  to  be 
sacred,  and  he  seemed  as  if  he  were  talking  face  to  face  with  the 
Father.  I  cannot  and  never  will  forget  it  if  I  lived  a  thousand  years. 
Five  years,  and  the  temple  was  completed  and  dedicated,  and  it  is  a 
marvelous  building  of  beauty  and  loveliness,  as  every  one  who  will 
visit  it  will  see. 

LOVE  OF  THE  NATIVES  FOR  PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 

It  was  on  the  Island  of  Maui  that  God  spoke  to  President  George 
Q.  Cannon.  Our  heavenly  Father  told  him  where  to  go,  the  very 
house  to  enter,  and  there  he  would  find  a  man  who  would  receive 
him.  And  it  was  on  those  islands  that  he,  as  a  young  man,  was  given 
the  language  by  the  power  of  God.  And  it  was  on  those  islands  that 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith  began  his  missionary  work. 

Talk  about  people  loving  a  man!  I  do  not  believe  it  is  possible 
for  human  beings  to  love  a  man  more  than  did  the  natives  of  the 
islands  love  President  Joseph  F.  Smith.  Five  years  ago  when  he 
landed  at  Honolulu,  on  his  arrival  at  the  mission  house,  there  stood 
in  the  front  door  President  Smith's  native  "mamma,"  blind,  but  oh, 
what  a  greeting  there  was.  No  mother  and  son  ever  met  with  greater 
manifestations  of  love  for  each  other. 

Temple  building,  temple  work,  salvation  for  our  dead  and  salva- 
tion for  ourselves  have  just  begun ;  the  ninth  temple  is  about  to  be 
erected  in  Arizona.  I  look  to  see  the  time  when  temples  will  be 
erected  in  all  parts  of  the  world,  and  the  peoples  of  the  world  will 
understand  that  this  wonderful  principle  revealed  again  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  is  given  for  the  world's  salvation. 

WHO  ARE  THE  NATIVE  HAWAIIANS? 

I  said  these  people  were  of  the  blood  of  Israel.  I  don't  think 
there  is  any  question  about  that.    They  are  the  direct  descendants 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  Lehi.  When  I  was  in  Honolulu  a  little  while  ago,  there  was  a 
great  conference  being  held  considering  the  question  of  where  the 
natives  of  the  islands  came  from  and  who  they  were.  I  have  no 
doubt  they  drifted  from  America.  We  do  know  this.,  that  not  long 
ago  the  government  of  the  United  States,  in  order  to  determine  how 
the  trade  winds  affected  navigation  took  a  bottle  and  outside  of  the 
Golden  Gate  dropped  it  into  the  ocean;  and  inside  of  the  bottle  was  a 
note  asking  the  person  finding  the  bottle  to  notify  the  government  at 
Washington,  the  time  and  place.  Twenty  days  after  the  dropping  of 
the  bottle  into  the  ocean,  outside  of  the  Golden  Gate,  the  bottle  was 
picked  up  on  the  shores  of  Laie,  the  home  of  the  "Mormon"  people. 
Oh,  I  have  heard  President  Smith  tell  those  people  that  Laie  should 
forever  be  a  refuge  for  the  natives  of  those  islands.  I  have  heard 
him  dedicate  the  ground  for  that  purpose,  and  I  believe  it  was  given 
by  our  Father  to  those  people  for  that  very  purpose. 

Strange,  folks  say,  that  one  hundred  years  or  more  ago,  when 
each  of  those  islands  had  a  king,  it  was  definitely  understood  by 
every  king  over  the  different  islands,  and  it  was  lived  up  to  strictly, 
that  whenever  a  native  of  any  of  the  islands  reached  Laie,  the  place 
of  refuge,  there  was  no  power  that  could  remove  him  from  there. 
Laie  was  the  natives'  place  of  refuge  in  years  past,  and  today  it  is 
the  home  of  the  natives  belonging  to  our  Church. 

May  God  bless  us  in  our  labors,  I  ask,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "The  sunset  glories  of  the  west." 
Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Andrew  Jenson,  Assistant 
Church  Historian. 


FOURTH  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

A  fourth  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the  Bureau  of  Informa- 
tion assembly  hall,  Sunday  afternoon  at  2  o'clock,  October  10. 

Elder  Richard  R.  Lyman,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  presided. 

The  music  was  furnished  by  the  congregation  and  the  Swanee 
Singers  of  Granite  Stake,  under  the  direction  of  Elder  J.  S.  Cornwall. 

The  singers  and  congregation  sang,  "Do  what  is  right." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Alfred  W.  Peterson. 

The  Swanee  Singers  sang,  "Just  as  God  Leads." 

ELDER  JONATHAN  C.  CUTLER 

(President  of  the  Curlew  Stake  of  Zion) 

It  is  certainly  gratifying  to  see  the  interest  manifested  by  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  in  attending  our  conferences.    I  presume  that  on  the 


ELDER  JONATHAN  C.  CUTLER 


139 


Temple  block,  at  the  present  time,  in  the  three  buildings,  and  on  the 
grounds,  there  are  not  less  than  twelve  to  fifteen  thousand  Latter-day 
Saints,  eager  to  get  inspiration  from  the  servants  of  the  Lord.  To  me 
this  is  very  gratifying  and  pleasing  indeed.  I  feel  truly  thankful  for 
the  title  Latter-day  Saint  which  I  bear.  1  am  also  pleased,  and 
appreciate  the  honor  to  be  counted  worthy,  to  be  a  representa- 
tive of  this  great  Church.  While  I  feel  that  I  am  out  of  place  to 
be  called  upon  to  address  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  come  so  far 
to  these  conferences,  and  while  I  feel  that  the  brethren  and  sisters 
who  attend  would  rather  hear  the  general  authorities  than  some 
of  the  local  brethren,  yet,  obedient  to  the  call,  I  comply  and  desire 
that  the  Lord  will  bless  me  with  his  Spirit,  and  if  he  has  anything 
to  say,  through  me,  I  would  only  be  too  pleased  to  give  utterance,  for 
I  desire  to  do  all  the  good  I  can,  and  as  little  harm  as  possible. 

The  Apostle  Peter  gives  us  to  understand  that  God  is  no  respecter 
of  persons,  but  in  all  nations  he  that  feareth  him  and  worketh  right- 
eousness is  accepted  of  him.  We  are  all  God's  children.  We  have  a 
perfect  right  to  be  equal.  We  were  created  equal,  and  we  have  a  per- 
fect right  to  remain  equal,  according  to  our  works  and  our  diligence 
here  in  the  earth.  But  it  is  true  we  have  our  agency.  We  had  it  in 
the  beginning,  when  the  spirits  were  organized  in  the  spirit  world. 
God  did  not  see  fit  to  take  our  agency  from  us,  but  in  the  spirit  world 
we  exercised  our  free  agency,  and  we  still  have  the  privilege  here 
of  exercising  it.  Men  and  women  can  do  as  they  please.  God  is  not 
going  to  compel  us  to  do  anything.  As  the  poet  says,  "He'll  call,  per- 
suade, direct  aright — in  countless  ways  be  good  and  kind — but  never 
force  the  human  mind."  We  are  all  acting  on  our  own  resources  and 
responsibilities, — upon  our  own  honor  and  judgment.  God  does  not 
interfere,  but  gives  all  a  chance;  and  he  is  no  respecter  of  persons, 
and  the  call  is  to  all,  regardless  of  creed. 

There  seems  to  be  at  present  in  the  whole  world  a  disregard  for 
law  and  order.  I  look  back  to  my  younger  days — I  am  still  a  boy, 
but  I  look  back  to  when  I  was  younger  than  I  am  today — and  I  see  a 
marked  change  in  conditions  as  they  now  exist.  Remember  that 
law  and  order  were  observed  in  heaven.  It  is  true  we  had  the  right 
to  exercise  our  agency,  but,  at  the  same  time,  law  and  order  were 
prevailing,  even  in  the  spirit  world,  in  heaven.  The  laws  of  our  gov- 
ernment are  patterned  after  the  laws  of  God.  Law  and  order  at 
least  should  prevail  here  in  this  great  nation  of  ours;  in  fact,  they 
should  in  the  whole  world.  But  there  is  a  strong  tendency  today 
to  disregard  both  law  and  order. 

Before  I  arose  from  my  bed  this  morning  I  received  a  thought 
that  I  pondered  over.  At  the  place  that  I  was  stopping,  I  heard  in 
the  hallway  a  mother  say  to  her  child,  "Child,  don't  go  down  stairs." 
And  the  child  said,  "Why?" — seemed  to  rebel  at  once.  That  seems 
to  be  the  condition  at  the  presnt  time ;  we  haven't  learned  the  lesson 
that  Adam  learned.    You  remember  the  Lord  told  Adam  in  the  be- 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ginning  to  offer  sacrifice.  There  were  no  whys  nor  wherefores  with 
Adam ;  it  was  the  Lord's  right  to  speak  and  Adam  understood  it. 
You  remember  a  little  later,  when  the  angel  visited  him,  he  put  this 
question  to  him,  "Adam,  why  do  you  offer  sacrifice?"  Adam  said,  "I 
know  not,  only  that  God  has  commanded  it." 

Above  all,  I  believe  that  Latter-day  Saints  should  learn  this  les- 
son. We  are  beginning  to  fall  into  the  ways  of  the  world,  and  we 
question  the  authority  of  God  here  on  the  earth,  and  when  we  are 
asked,  as  the  little  child  was  asked  this  morning,  not  to  go  down  the 
stairs,  we  want  to  know  why.  We  do  not  follow  the  example  of 
Adam.  This  seems  to  be  the  tendency  in  the  Church  today.  We  find 
that  a  great  many  of  our  people  have  lost  track  of  the  law  of  order 
and  rule,  and  want  to  be  a  law  unto  themselves. 

It  is  very  true  that  in  cases,  when  the  time  is  ripe  and  proper, 
we  have  a  right  to  counsel.  For  instance,  we  take  the  body  of  law- 
makers that  we  have.  When  they  go  into  council,  they  have  a  right 
there  to  express  their  opinions,  they  have  a  perfect  right  to  discuss 
matters,  give  their  ideas,  and  finally  come  to  a  conclusion,  and  it 
becomes  a  law.  But  then  it  becomes  our  duty,  as  subject  to  that  law, 
to  obey,  and  not  to  ask  the  whys  and  wherefores.  They  have  taken 
it  into  council,  and  have  decided  upon  the  law,  and  I  feel  that  it  is 
the  duty  of  every  one  to  obey  such  law  and  order  after  it  has  been 
established. 

With  Latter-day  Saints,  I  feel  that  it  is  more  important  even 
than  with  other  citizens  of  this  great  nation  of  ours.  It  is  true  that 
in  the  beginning,  while  in  the  spirit  world,  there  was  a  council  held ; 
and  you  remember  that  God  called  the  gods  together.  They  met 
in  council.  No  doubt  they  discussed  matters  pro  and  con,  but  finally 
they  decided  upon  a  plan  of  redemption.  That  plan  was  accepted 
by  all  who  were  there.  No  doubt  we  were  there,  according  to  the 
words  of  Job,  because  he  gives  us  to  understand' — or  the  Lord 
does,  in  speaking  to  him,  when  he  puts  this  question  to  him,  "Job, 
declare,  if  thou  hast  understanding,  where  wast  thou  when  this  earth 
was  created,  when  the  morning  stars  sang  together,  and  all  of  the 
sons  of  God  shouted  for  joy?"  We  were  present  in  the  spirit  world. 
We  gave  a  voice  of  utterance  to  the  plan  of  redemption,  and  sanc- 
tioned it  while  in  the  spirit  world.  But  that  did  not  deprive  the  spirits 
of  their  agency.  After  that  council  had  decided  upon  a  plan,  we 
find  that  one  man  arose  and  rebelled  against  that  great  body.  Lu- 
cifer, the  son  of  the  morning,  rebelled  against  that  council.  He  did 
not  see  fit  to  be  governed  by  law  and  order,  and  became  a  law  unto 
himself ;  and  he  had  such  great  influence  and  power,  even  after  that 
council  had  decided  upon  a  plan,  that  he  drew  away  a  third  of  the 
hosts  of  heaven,  and  they  followed  himi,  using  their  agency.  We  who 
were  valiant  had  greater  blessings  pronounced  upon  us.  The  bless- 
ing was  given  to  all  who  were  valiant,  and  kept  their  first  estate,  that 
the  time  would  come  when  they  would  have  the  privilege  of  coming 


ELDER  JONATHAN  C.  CUTLER 


141 


here  upon  the  earth  and  taking  a  body,  whereby  the  spirit  might  be 
clothed.  We  had  a  clear  understanding,  no  doubt,  of  our  second 
estate,  and  we  are  here  now  as  the  Lord  promised  that  we  should  be, 
all  who  were  valiant  in  the  spirit  world. 

Now,  I  believe  above  all  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  should  be 
subject  to  law  and  order.  I  believe  I  am  thoroughly  converted  to 
the  fact  that  all  Latter-day  Saints,  when  the  law  goes  forth,  have  not 
the  privilege  to  ask  the  whys  and  wherefores,  because  when  we  do 
this,  I  am  sure  that  we  grieve  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  it  leaves  us. 
We  read  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  where  the  Lord  says,  That 
it  mattereth  not  whether  he  speaks  by  his  own  voice,  or  the  voire 
of  his  servants,  it  is  binding  upon  the  hearer.  Amos  gives  us  to 
understand  that  "Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  nothing  but  that  lie 
reveals  his  secrets  unto  his  servants  the  prophets."  God  has  never 
had  a  people  that  he  acknowledged  upon  the  earth,  for  whom  he  did  not 
provide  a  mouthpiece  to  lead  them.  After  God  had  visited  the  boy 
prophet,  and  after  the  organization  of  the  Church,  Joseph  was  ap-. 
oarently  left  to  himself,  and  he  led  the  people  as  a  prophet  of  God. 
And  we  are  still  led  by  that  same  authority  here  today.  So  it  matters 
not  whether  the  Lord  speaks  direct,  or  whether  he  speaks  as  he  al- 
ways has  spoken,  through  his  mouthpieces  here  on  the  earth ;  and  it 
pains  me  to  see  the  disrespect  for  the  authority  of  God  here  in  the 
earth  that  we  find  is  being  manifest  among  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

1  feel  that  we  are  living  in  the  time  that  the  Apostle  Paul  saw, 
and  many  of  the  other  apostles  and  prophets.  We  are  living  in  the 
times  that  Daniel  saw.  We  are  living  in  the  day  that  John  the  Rev- 
elator  saw  when  he  said,  "I  saw  an  angel  flying  through  the  midst  of 
heaven,"  etc.  We  are  living  in  that  very  day.  The  angel  Moroni 
has  come.  He  has  delivered  his  message  unto  mankind,  he  has  de- 
livered the  record  of  the  forefathers,  the  Nephites  and  the  Laman- 
ites,  and  the  work  is  established  again  here  upon  the  earth  with  the 
promise  that  no  other  people  have  ever  enjoyed,  and  that  is  this, 
that  it  shall  never  be  taken  from  the  earth  nor  given  to  another  people. 
This  is  the  knowledge  that  Latter-day  Saints  possess  today,  that  this 
gospel  which  is  here  never  will  be  given  to  another  people — though  we 
have  no  particular  promise  that  you  and  I  will  remain  faithful ;  that 
depends  upon  our  own  works,  our  own  acts,  whether  we  remain  firm 
and  true  or  not. 

I  am  reminded  of  a  prediction  made  by  Heber  C.  Kimball.  And 
1  remember  quoting  this  at  one  time  in  Summit  county  when  I  was 
there  on  a  Mutual  mission,  and  at  the  close  of  the  meeting  an  elderly 
man  came  to  me,  and  he  corroborated  what  I  said,  except  that  while 
I  put  it  "half,"  he  said,  "You  have  made  a  mistake ;  I  heard  him  make 
the  utterance,  that  the  day  would  come  that  two-thirds  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  would  apostatize  and  leave  the  Church."  I  got  this 
from  this  witness,  who  heard  him  say  so. 

I  ponder  over  this  at  times,  and  I  wonder  what  is  going  to  be 


142 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  outcome.  It  is  true,  we  are  naturally  looking  after  self,' but  when 
we  take  a  broad  view  of  the  situation  of  life  and  the  hereafter,  we  are 
only  one  royal  family.  While,  of  course,  we  desire  to  be  saved, 
with  our  immediate  kin  and  relatives — and  that  seems  to  be  the  nearest 
and  dearest  wish  to  us — I  believe  our  ambition  is  stronger,  and  we 
are  working  harder  to  save  our  immediate  family,  which  I  feel  is  per- 
fectly right  and  well.  I  believe  we  are  just  a  little  bit  too  selfish 
along  this  line.  I  have  often  thought  this  that  I  would  not  be  for- 
tunate if  my  family  were  saved  or  exalted  and  all  of  my  neighbors 
and  associates  were  not  enjoying  the  same  blessing  that  I  enjoy.  I 
accept  life  as  a  reality.  I  accept  life  after  we  leave  here  as  a  reality. 
I  believe  the  way  I  am  living  here  I  will  want  to  live  after  I  leave 
here.  I  believe  the  company  that  I  enjoy  here  I  will  want  to  enjoy 
after  I  leave  here ;  and  for  that  reason  the  communities  that  I  live 
in  and  the  good  people  that  I  get  acquainted  with  and  want  to  asso- 
ciate with  here,  I  believe  I  will  want  to  associate  with  when  I  get 
-on  the  other  side.  And  so  I  take  a  broad  view  of  the  situation,  and 
the  reality  of  life  here  and  hereafter ;  I  have  the  same  interest  for  my 
neighbor,  for  my  fellow  man  that  I  have  for  myself. 

I  feel,  then,  that  we  should  mete  out  charity  to  one  another.  I 
feel  that  we  should  live  here  as  we  desire  to  live  when  we  go  on  the 
other  side.  I  have  heard  a  great  many  people  express  themselves 
that  when  we  get  on  the  other  side  there  will  be  an  awful  change, 
that  the  separation  that  we  call  death  is  going  to  bring  about  a  won- 
derful change — habits  that  we  have  formed  here,  things  that  we  have 
been  accustomed  to  here  will  leave  us,  that  we  will  not  be  bothered 
with  these  bodies  when  we  leave  here.  This  is  not  the  doctrine  taught 
by  Alma,  by  any  means.  It  is  just  the  reverse.  And  I  believe  that  as 
Ecclesiastes  says,  "As  we  lay  the  body  down,  so  shall  we  take  it  up 
again."  I  believe  that  if  we  have  formed  an  evil  habit,  that  habit  will 
stay  with  us  until  we  overcome  it.  If  it  would  not,  there  would  be 
no  justice;  mercy  would  take  the  place  of  justice,  which  God  says  is 
not  going  to  be — for  mercy  will  claim  its  own,  justice  will  demand  its 
own — and  if  the  change  which  we  call  death  is  going  to  make  us  per- 
fect, I  see  no  use  of  the  extra  exertion  to  be  what  we  should  be  here 
in  the  flesh.  But  I  am  converted  to  the  fact  that  when  we  leave 
here  we  will  find  ourselves  in  the  condition  just  where  we  left  this 
life. 

For  an  illustration,  I  am  going  to  tell  of  an  instance  that  oc- 
curred while  I  was  laboring  in  Summit  county,  to  show  to  you  that 
the  appetites  which  we  have  here  go  with  us,  and  we  only  get  rid  of 
them  by  sacrifice.  And  I  am  converted  that  it  is  easier  to  get  rid  of 
these  things  here  than  it  is  after  we  leave  here.  I  called  at  the  home 
of  a  good  brother  and  his  wife  and  family.  In  our  discussion,  I  found 
he  had  been  a  strong,  heavy  tobacco  user.  He  told  me  of  his  expe- 
rience in  quitting  this  habit.  He  told  me  that  his  brother  had  died 
some  two  years  before,  and  that  he  also  was  a  heavy  tobacco  user. 


ELDER  JONATHAN  C.  CUTLER 


143 


After  he  had  been  dead  two  or  three  months,  he  appeared  to  his 
brother  and  his  brother's  wife,  at  their  bedside,  and  said,  "John,  get 
up  and  roll  me  a  smoke."  His  brother  obeyed  and  got  up  and  rolled 
him  a  smoke  and  offered  it  to  him,  and  he  appeared  to  sit  down  on  a 
chair,  and  his  brother  sat  clown  by  the  side  of  him;  and  he  said, 
"You  inhale  it ;"  and  he  obeyed.  His  brother  held  the  third  draw 
and  he  said,  "That  will  do ;  now  I  can  leave  the  earth." 

This  coincides  with  what  Parley  P.  Pratt  gives  us  in  the  Kev  to 
Theology.  Here  was  a  man  who  had  been  dead  two  or  three  long 
months,  and  according  to  his  own  testimony,  he  had  not  been  able  to 
leave  the  earth  and  go  to  the  spirit  world,  but  had  been  hovering 
around  the  earth.  Parley  P.  Pratt  tells  us  in  the  Key  to  Theology 
that  at  the  place  where  the  evil  deeds  are  committed,  the  spirits  linger  in 
wretched  loneliness  for  months.  Now,  according  to  the  statement  of 
this  good  brother,  which  I  could  not  deny  after  questioning  him,  his 
brother  came  to  him.  1  tried  to  make  him  think  that  it  was  imaginary, 
but  he  turned  to  his  good  wife  and  said,  "Mother,  did  we  imagine 
that  my  brother  came,  or  was  it  real  ?"  She  said,  "We  were  as  wide 
awake  as  we  are  at  the  present  time ;  we  walked  to  him  and  conversed 
with  him,  and  on  leaving  us,  he  went  into  the  other  room  and  awoke 
our  elder  son  and  he  talked  with  him." 

1  bring  this  up  as  an  illustration,  because  I  have  heard  some  of 
our  good  old  brethren  and  sisters,  and  some  of  our  younger  ones  say, 
I  will  take  the  extra  stripe,  I  will  satisfy  the  appetite  while  I  am 
here,  and  take  my  chances  on  the  other  side.  Now,  this  good  brother, 
who  had  formed  that  habit,  after  the  visitation  of  his  brother  to  him, 
said,  "If  this  is  the  condition  of  my  brother,  who  left  with  that  ap- 
petite, I  am  going  to  make  the  sacrifice  and  quit."  He  bore  his  testi- 
mony to  me  that  it  had  been  two  long  years  since  he  had  touched 
tobacco. 

Now  I  want  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  all  candor, 
that  life  is  a  reality  here,  and  I  believe  as  we  live  here  we  will 
live  after  we  leave  here.  I  believe  if  I  do  not  want  to  associate 
with  a  man  here,  he  would  be  very  repulsive  to  me  on  the  other  side. 
If  I  could  not  make  him  a  congenial  companion  here,  I  do  not  believe 
I  would  want  to  on  the  other  side,  until  some  differences  had  been 
adjusted. 

Do  we  find  conditions  of  this  kind  in  our  neighborhood  today? 
I  believe  we  do.  We  find  neighbors  who  will  not  speak  to  neighbors. 
We  find  enmity  exists,  even  in  the  settlements,  and  in  some  cases,  in 
the  immediate  homes  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  It  is  entirely  wrong, 
and  this  should  be  eradicated  from  the  heart  of  every  Latter-day  Saint. 

I  want  to  leave  my  witness  that  this  body  of  Latter-day  Saint 
may  know  the  gospel  is  true.  T  know  that  God  lives.  1 
know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet,  raised  up  in  these  the 
last  days  to  bring  about  God's  purposes  before  the  second  coming 
of  Christ  here  to  reign  in  the  earth.  The  living  oracles  are  here,  handed 
down  from  Presidents  Young,  Taylor,  Woodruff,  Snow,  down  to  Pres- 


144 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ident  Smith — and  today  Heber  J.  Grant  stands  as  a  mouthpiece  to  us, 
and  I  say,  God  bless  him,  bless  his  associates,  his  counselors  and  the 
apostles,  and  all  of  the  presiding  authorities;  and  I  would  exhort 
you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  to  pray  for  them,  sustain  them,  and  up- 
hold them,  and  if  we  will  do  it,  God  will  sustain  and  uphold  us,  but 
if  we  do  not,  I  am  afraid  we  will  be  left  to  ourselves,  and  we  will 
apostatize  and  leave  the  Church,  as  was  predicted  by  Brother  Kim- 
ball. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 
The  Swanee  Singers  sang,  "The  boys  of  the  old  brigade.'' 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  McGREGOR 

(President  of  the  Beaver  Stake  of  Zion) 

I  have  been  very  much  impressed,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  at 
this  conference  with  the  necessity  of  doing  something,  impressed  with 
the  fact  that  this  gospel  is  a  gospel  of  service,  and  that  in  order  to 
get  the  blessings  of  eternal  life,  we  have  something  to  do  upon  our 
part  other  than  merely  assent  to  the  divinity  of  the  mission  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

I  recall  when  in  the  east  at  one  time — I  think  Brother  Lyman 
was  there  at  Ann  Arbor — the  Reverend  E.  Fay  Mills  held  a  protracted 
meeting  there,  and  he  showed  us  the  necessity,  in  his  way,  of  accept- 
ing Jesus  Christ,  and  the  results  if  we  failed  to  do  this  while  we  were 
sojourning  here  in  mortality ;  and  he  told  a  little  story  about  a  young 
lady  who  had  been  in  the  choir  and  who  had  not  confessed  the  Savior. 
After  his  meeting,  she  had  taken  suddenly  ill  with  pneumonia,  and 
died  within  a  few  days.  In  the  hymn  book  she  had  used  she  had 
written,  "Almost  persuaded."  He  showed  the  terrible  condition  of 
that  young  lady — if  she  had  just  been  a  little  more  zealous,  she  would 
have  been  persuaded,  and  therefore  would  have  received  the  bless- 
ings of  eternal  life — as  it  was,  she  would  go  to  hell,  and  remain  there 
in  torment  throughout  the  countless  ages  of  eternity! 

Now  we  do  not  believe  any  such  rubbish.  We  believe  that  what- 
ever we  get,  we  get  through  obedience  to  the  laws  and  commandments 
of  the  gospel.  John  the  Revelator,  saw  the  books  opened,  and  an- 
other book,  which  was  the  book  of  life,  and  the  dead  were  judged 
out  of  the  things  that  were- written  in  the  book,  according  to  their 
works;  and  we  believe  that  we  will  get  just  what  we  merit,  and  not 
go  to  just  the  one  place  or  the  other. 

You  know  the  old  darkey  in  the  south  was  preaching,  and  he  was 
telling  the  people  that  they  would  either  go  to  hell  fire  or  else  damna- 
tion, when  they  died — either  one  place  or  the  other;  and  one  of  the 
congregation  said,  "What  is  that  you  say?" 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  McGREGOR 


145 


And  he  said,  "Yes,  that  is  right,  you  will  go  either  one  place  or 
the  other." 

Then  the  darkey  in  the  congregation  said,  "Then  this  darkey  will 
take  to  the  woods." 

And  many  of  us  would  have'  to  take  to  the  woods,  were  it  not 
for  the  provision  that  our  heavenly  Father  has  made  for  us  that  we 
will  get  what  we  earn  and  work  for  here,  during  this  probation. 

I  think  one  of  the  most  beautiful  sections  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  is  what  is  commonly  termed  the  "Vision."  You  know 
the  Lord  showed  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  that  there  was 
more  than  one  place,  and  made  it  clear  to  them  that  there  were  many 
mansions  in  the  Father's  kingdom,  and  that  we  would  not  all  go  to 
the  same  place.  Prior  to  this  time,  of  course,  it  was  believed  that 
there  was  no  half-way  house — we  went  either  to  heaven  or  to  hell. 

I  will  not  take  your  time  to  read  this  section — you  are  all  more 
or  less  conversant  with  it — but  you  remember  the  great  blessings  that 
the  Lord  has  in  store  for  those  who  go  to  the  celestial  kingdom.  Those 
are  the  ones  who  are  faithful,  who  are  valiant  here  in  this  life  for  the 
gospel  and  for  the  principles  of  truth  that  have  been  laid  down  for 
our  guidance  by  the  Savior  of  the  world. 

Then  we  have  another  class,  who  were  not  so  valiant,  who  got 
into  the  terrestrial  kingdom.  And  I  wish  you  to  notice  there  that 
among  them  are  those  to  whom  the  Savior  went  and  preached  in  the 
spirit  world,  those  to  whom  he  went  and  unlocked  the  prison  door, 
that  they  might  accept  the  gospel.  Why  should  not  they  get  into 
the  celestial  kingdom  ?  Why  should  they  be  shut  out,  if  they  then 
would  accept  it,  and  do  the  works?  They  have  had  the  privilege,  v. 
brethren  and  sisters,  of  accepting  the  gospel  here  on  earth.  It  had 
been  preached  to  them,  and  they  had  refused  to  accept  it  in  mortality ; 
and  therefore  they  were  not  in  a  position  to  get  all  the  blessings  that 
the  Lord  has  in  store  for  his  faithful  children. 

You  will  recall  that  Alma,  in  preaching  to  the  Zoramites,  told 
them  to  repent  and  turn  unto  the  Lord  ere  it  be  too  late.  And  many 
have  said,  "Why  has  Alma  spoken  in  this  way?"  Because  we  believe 
that  there  is  a  chance  hereafter ;  and  talk  about  the  night  coming 
when  no  work  can  be  done — we  think  we  will  do  a  great  deal  of  work 
hereafter,  and  that  those  who  have  not  accepted  the  gospel  here  in 
mortality  will  do  so  on  the  other  side.  But,  mind  you,  Alma  was 
speaking  to  those  people,  the  Zoramites,  who  were  apostates.  They 
had  once  accepted  the  gospel  and  then  rejected  it,  and  therefore  they 
could  not  then  have  the  opportunity  that  they  might  have  had  if  they 
had  not  heard  the  gospel.  It  would  have  been  better  for  them  if  they 
never  had  heard  it  than  to  have  heard  it  and  rejected  it  here. 

And  so  we  find  that  among  those  in  the  terrestrial  kingdom  are 
those  to  whom  the  Savior  went,  those  people  who  had  had  the  op- 
portunity here  while  they  were  in  mortality  of  accepting  the  gospel, 
and  rejected  it ;  and  therefore  they  did  not  get  a  celestial  glory,  they 
were  not  valiant.    There  were  some  honest  hearted  people  among 


146 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


them,  but  they  had  been  blinded  by  the  worldly  things,  and  while 
they  might  accept  the  Savior  as  a  divine  being  and  as  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world,  yet  they  had  not  with  full  purpose  of  heart  accepted 
the  gospel  and  done  the  works  that  the  Savior  required  at  their  hands. 
Therefore  they  could  not  get  the  blessings. 

So  it  rests  upon  this  point,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  valiant, 
valiant  in  the  cause  of  our  heavenly  Father.  What  are  we  to  do  in 
order  to  be  valiant?  Why,  keep  the  commandments,  not  one  or  two 
or  three,  or  any  stated  number,  but  all  the  commandments  that  our 
heavenly  Father  has  given  us.  You  know  the  erroneous  idea  that 
the  young  man  was  working  under  who  came  to  the  Savior  and 
wanted  to  know  what  good  thing  he  might  do  in  order  to  obtain 
eternal  life.  He  seemed  to  think  that  by  doing  one  good,  great  thing, 
he  would  get  all  the  blessings  that  our  heavenly  Father  has  in  store 
for  his  faithful  children ;  but  the  Savior  disillusioned  his  mind ;  he 
explained  to  him  that  he  should  keep  the  commandments,  and  that 
it  was  not  one.  In  fact  he  told  the  Jews,  on  one  occasion,  that  they 
took  tithes  of  mint  and  anise,  and  so  on,  but  neglected  the  weightier 
matters  of  the  law — the  first  they  ought  to  do,  but  not  to  leave  the 
other  undone. 

We  must  keep  all  the  commandments ;  and  so,  today,  I  believe 
it  is  a  splendid  thing  for  us  to  take  stock  of  ourselves  and  find  out 
where  we  stand.  If  we  are  in  business,  we  often  take  stock — we  take 
stock  each  year — and  find  out  our  assets  and  liabilities,  and  just  where 
we  stand  financially.  Isn't  it  a  good  thing  to  take  stock  of  ourselves 
religiously,  and  find  out  just  where  we  stand?  Are  we  keeping  the 
commandments  of  our  heavenly  Father,  so  far  as  we  know  them? 
Do  we  pay  our  tithes  and  offerings  honestly  before  the  Lord,  from 
month  to  month?  If  not,  then  let  us  wake  up  and  do  those  things. 
Are  we  attending  our  sacrament  meetings?  Are  we  responding  to 
the  calls  of  those  who  are  over  us  in  authority  and  performing  every 
labor  and  duty  required  at  our  hands?  Are  we  keeping  up  our  com- 
munications with  the  heavens  ?  Are  we  thanking  the  Lord,  and  not 
being  guilty  of  the  sin  of  ingratitude  in  not  thanking  him  for  his 
goodness  to  us  from  day  to  day— and  asking  for  the  things  that  we 
need?  I  do  not  think  we  all  ask  for  just  what  we  ought  to  have.  In 
many  instances,  perhaps,  we  are  praying  for  those  things  that  would 
not  be  good  for  us,  if  we  got  them.  Let  us  be  careful  not  to  ask  the 
Lord  for  anything  we  ought  not  to  have,  and  then  when  we  do  ask 
for  his  blessings  and  ask  for  things  that  will  be  beneficial  for  us  to 
have,  we  can  do  it  in  sincerity,  in  faith,  believing  that  he  will  hear 
and  answer  us.  I  believe  that  oftentimes  we  think  the  Lord  ought 
to  respond  the  moment  we  ask  him ;  and  if  he  does  not,  we  think  that 
our  prayers  have  not  been  answered  and  he  has  turned  a  deaf  ear  to 
us,  and  that  there  is  no  efficacy  in  prayer. 

It  is  a  little,  as  I  remember,  like  an  incident  that  occurred  some 
time  ago.  I  had  an  uncle  who  was  an  apostate,  and  he  was  talking 
about  this  revelation  on  war.    He  said  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  far- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  McGREGOR 


147 


sighted  man,  and  of  course,  he  could  see  what  was  coming,  and  that 
there  was  a  clash  coming  between  the  north  and  the  south.  And  I 
said,  "Why  was  it  that  he  could  see  that  other  nations  would  step 
in,  even  the  nation  of  Great  Britain,  and  that  they  would  be  asked 
for  help  by  the  south,  and  they  would  grant  it?" 

He  said,  "That  shows  that  he  was  wrong,  because  it  says  they 
would  call  upon  other  nations,  and  other  nations  upon  others,  until 
all  nations  of  the  earth  should  be  involved — that  was  not  fulfilled, 
and  therefore  it  is  like  the  old  adage  of  the  law  'false  in  one  thing, 
false  in  all,'  and  therefore  we  can  throw  it  all  away." 

I  did  not  know  how  to  answer  him  then,  but  now  we  can  answet 
him.  We  can  see  how  Great  Britain  and  other  nations  have  been 
involved  in  war;  and  we  have  taken  these  things  in  too  small  a  com- 
pass, and  have  not  been  broad  enough  to  realize  that  the  Lord  often 
requires  time  to  perform  his  work. 

It  reminds  me  of  a  little  story  I  have  heard  of  a  little  boy  who 
wanted  a  baby  in  the  home,  and  finally  he  asked  his  father  if  he 
might  pray  for  one.  His  father  told  him  yes,  he  might,  if  he  wished ; 
and  so  for  some  months,  whenever  he  said  his  prayers  at  night,  he 
would  ask  the  Lord  to  send  a  baby  to  their  home.  But  no  baby  came, 
and  he  got  tired  and  he  quit  asking  for  one.  Finally  one  morning 
when  he  came  downstairs,  the  nurse  took  him  into  the  bedroom,  and 
there  were  twins !  He  said,  "Pa,  it  is  a  good  thing  I  stopped  pray- 
ing when  I  did."  So,  I  think  it  is  a  splendid  thing  for  us  to  exercise 
a  little  patience  and  he  will  hear  our  pleadings.  I  am  sure  that  he 
will.  But  do  not  let  us  neglect  any  of  the  duties  that  are  incumbent 
upon  us. 

I  am  thankful  to  the  Lord  that  he  has  made  provision  for  his 
children,  and  that  very,  very  few  of  them  will  be  lost,  that  even  in 
the  telestial,  the  lowest  degree  of  glory,  where  all  the  wicked  people 
and  those  who  fail  to  get  the  terrestrial  or  the  celestial  glory  will  go 
(except  the  sons  of  perdition),  the  joy  is  beyond  our  ability  to  under- 
stand, it  is  so  great  and  glorious.  Is  not  this  a  grand  idea,  to  think 
the  Lord  has  made  such  provision  for  his  children?  Is  it  not  worth 
the  effort,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  ask  to  obtain  the  blessings  that 
he  has  prepared  for  his  children  here  upon  the  earth.  And  yet  we 
ought  not  to  be  satisfied  with  anything  but  the  highest,  because  the 
terrestrial  is  so  grand  that  the  prophet  says  that  he  could  not  explain 
it  to  the  people,  it  was  so  grand.  We  do  not  wish  to  be  satisfied 
with  that — we  do  not  want  to  be  left  without  our  companions,  our 
wives,  or  our  children — we  want  to  work  for  a  higher  degree  of  glory. 
We  may  not  be  able  to  become  great  jurists  or  great  scientists — our 
mental  capacity  may  prevent  us  from  being  such — but  we  can  be  true 
Latter-day  Saints.  We  have  the  ability,  each  and  all  of  us,  to  do  that, 
and  the  Lord  does  not  require  anything-  at  our  hands,  save  he  pro- 
vides ways  and  means  for  us  to  perform  the  commandment  that  he 
has  given  us,  as  Nephi  has  told  us.    So  that,  if  we  try,  he  just  judges 


148  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


us  by  the  intents  of  our  hearts,  and  not  always  by  what  we  do.  I  am 
very  thankful  for  that. 

When  it  comes  to  the  sons  of  perdition — they  are  those  who 
sinned,  wilfully,  knowingly,  after  having  tasted  the  good  word  of 
God  and  had  been  partakers  of  the  gifts  and  powers  of  the  world 
to  come,  and  then  threw  it  all  away,  rejected  the  Savior,  crucified 
him,  put  him  to  an  open  shame — they  are,  as  the  prophet  has  said, 
like  men  standing  and  seeing  the  sunshine  and  yet  declaring  it  does 
not  shine.  They  are  those  who  wilfully  and  deliberately  cast  them- 
selves overboard  on  the  sea  of  life.  They  alone  will  be  lost,  and 
thank  the  Lord  they  are  very  few. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  help  us 
that  we  may  work  and  see  the  necessity  of  work.  You  know  when 
you  go  out  into  the  world,  very  often  people  will  open  their  Bibles 
to  the  passage  in  which  Paul  says,  "For  by  grace  are  ye  saved,  through 
faith ;  and  that  not  of  yourselves :  it  is  the  gift  of  God :  not  of  works, 
lest  any  man  should  boast." 

And  I  was  glad  the  other  day  to  hear  Brother  Richards  explain, 
that  "God  so  loved  the  world  that  he  gave  his  Only  Begotten  Son, 
that  whosoever  should  believe  in  him,  should  not  perish,"  etc.,  and 
then  go  on  and  explain  that  works  as  well  are  necessary,  that  we 
have  something  to  do  on  our  part. 

When  we  hear  the  teachings  of  this  conference,  let  us  not  be 
like  the  man  who  built  his  house  on  the  sand,  but  like  the  man  who 
built  his  house  upon  the  rock.  Let  us  be  doers  of  the  word,  and  not 
hearers  only.  In  order  that  we  may  get  the  blessings,  we  must  do 
the  works,  and  if  we  do,  we  are  as  sure  of  our  pay  as  anyone  can  be. 

I  think  it  was  Cardinal  Wolsey  who,  at  his  death,  had  been  de- 
prived by  the  king  of  all  his  emoluments,  and  who  said: 

Had  I  but  served  my  God  with  half  the  zeal  I  served  my  king,  he 
would  not,  in  mine  age,  have  left  me  naked  to  mine  enemies. 

If  we  will  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  we  can  be  sure 
that  we  will  get  our  reward.  God  help  us  all  to  do  it,  I  ask,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  NELSON  D.  HOGAN 

(President  of  the  Idaho  Stake  of  Zion) 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  can  say  that  I  have  been  delighted 
with  the  splendid  counsel  that  we  have  received  at  this  and  all  the 
sessions  of  this  conference ;  and  if  we  can  take  some  of  the  things 
home  that  we  learn  here,  and  put  them  into  practice  in  our  every 
day  life,  we  will  get  something  out  of  coming  to  conference ;  but,  on 
the  other  hand,  if  we  go  home  and  pay  no  more  attention  to  what  we 
have  heard  here,  and  do  not  put  it  into  our  lives,  I  do  not  think  we 
will  get  very  much  good  out  of  it.  So,  I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  what  we  have  heard  in  the  different  sessions  of  this  confer- 


ELDER  NELSON  D.  HOGAN 


149 


ence,  we  will  try  to  take  home  and  practice  so  that  we  will  be  bene- 
fited by  meeting  together. 

I  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  will  get  everything 
we  earn.  If  we  are  faithful  in  keeping  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord  and  that  which  he  asks  us  to  do,  we  will  get  the  blessings  for 
these  things ;  and,  on  the  other  hand,  if  we  are  neglectful  and  careless 
and  indifferent,  and  do  not  the  things  that  the  Lord  has  required  of 
us,  we  cannot  expect  to  get  something  for  nothing.  I  often  think  of 
it  this  way,  that  if  we  start  to  work  for  a  man,  we  generally  know 
what  we  are  to  get  out  of  it.  We  know  just  about  what  the  wages 
will  be,  and  if.  we  are  faithful  in  performing  our  duty,  we  will  get 
a  full  pay.  On  the  other  hand,  if  we  are  careless,  indifferent,  lie 
around  part  of  the  time,  when  we  come  to  get  our  pay,  we  will  only 
get  a  part  pay,  and  that  is  all  we  will  ask  for.  I  believe  it  is  the 
same  with  the  gospel.  We  know  what  we  will  get  out  of  it,  if  we 
are  faithful. 

So,  it  is  up  to  us  to  be  faithful  and  try  to  do  everything  we  can 
for  the  cause  and  for  ourselves.  This  is  an  individual  work.  I  can 
not  work  out  your  salvation,  nor  can  you  work  out  mine ;  we  have 
each  to  work  out  our  own,  and  work  together  and  in  harmony  one 
with  another.    And  if  we  can  do  this,  our  reward  will  be  great. 

I  was  very  much  surprised  when  I  was  called  to  take  a  part  in 
this  meeting,  thinking  perhaps  they  had  made  a  mistake  in  calling 
upon  me  to  come  here  to  talk  to  the  people;  but  if  I  should  relate 
some  of  the  circumstances  in  my  life,  you  would  say  I  should  have  no 
reason  to  stand  back.  I  was  reared  in  the  Church,  but  I  am  sorry 
to  say  that  quite  a  lot  of  my  life  I  did  not  improve  the  opportunities 
as  I  should  have  done.  Still,  I  have  acted  as  a  bishop  for  fourteen 
years,  and  obtained  some  experiences  out  of  this  work.  I  have  acted 
in  the  capacity  of  a  stake  president  for  three  or  four  years.  I  am 
thankful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  have  been  counted  worthy 
of  these  responsible  positions,  and  I  trust  that  I  may  live  worthy,  so 
that  I  can  claim  the  blessings  in  store  for  the  faithful. 

I  ask  the  Lord  to  bless  us,  and  cause  that  the  things  that  we 
have  heard  at  this  splendid  conference,  will  be  taken  home  and  in- 
corporated into  the  practices  of  our  lives;  they  will  then  be  of  bene- 
fit to  us.  I  ask  the  Lord  to  help  us,  that  we  may  continue  faithful  to 
the  end ;  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  Swanee  Singers  sang,  "Let  the  lower  lights  be  burning." 


ELDER  THOMAS  D.  REESE 

(President  of  the  Juab  Stake  of  Zion) 

I  have  been  delighted  with  the  spirit  of  the  conference.  It  has 
thrilled  me  with  the  idea  that  our  people  are  up-to-date  in  meeting 


150 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  issues  that  stand  before  us.  I  have  been  impressed  with  the 
spirit  that  we,  as  a  people,  should  be  careful  in  our  utterances,  that 
we  should  use  discretion  and  judgment  in  these  days  of  feverish  po- 
litical excitement,  and  not  stand  at  our  back  fence  and  quarrel  with 
our  neighbor  over  some  things  that  probably  little  concern  us.  I 
have  seen  neighbors  sometimes  disputing  and  quarreling  over  men 
whom'  they  will  never  see  on  this  earth,  save  it  be  in  the  magazines, 
whose  hand  they  will  never  clasp,  and  yet  their  brother  across  the 
fence,  by  some  untimely  misjudged  statement,  they  offend,  and  there 
will  be  then  in  their  hearts  anger  and  sadness,  and  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  will  not  find  free  place  in  which  to  thrive. 

In  our  stake,  when  I  see  men  that  become  excited  over  politics, 
I  have  said  that  they  are  like  some  patients  that  I  have  had — when 
the  fever  gets  to  105,  I  look  for  them,  to  be  delirious,  and  I  pull  out 
my  thermometer  and  test  their  temperature.  When  it  is  105  they 
ofttimes  say  things  that  they  do  not  know  that  they  are  saying.  So 
when  I  meet  a  brother  who  is  radical  and  talking  upon  the  street 
too  loud,  I  reach  for  my  thermometer,  and  if  his  political  temperature 
is  105,  I  say,  "Brother,  you  are  delirious,  you  ought  to  go  home  for 
fear  that  somebody  else  will  catch  the  contagion." 

I  was  very  much  impressed  with  the  remarks  of  Brother  Lyman 
this  morning,  when  he  spoke  of  the  tobacco  question.  He  said  that 
as  a  people  we  should  hold  out  our  hands  and  stay  the  evil,  or  any 
ether  evils  that  may  be  in  our  midst.  I  have  thought  of  this  very 
much  in  collection  with  a  lesson  that  I  learned  in  life  when  I  was  i 
young  man  attending  college  in  the  east. 

In  one  of  the  big  cities  I  had  the  privilege  of  studying  in  the 
anatomy  room  of  the  university  with  a  great  number  of  other  stu- 
dents of  the  subject,  and  I  was  working  along,  doing  some  of  the  ex- 
tra work  to  earn  a  little  money  to  remain  at  colleg'e,  and  I  had  the 
duty  of  going  down  to  the  morgue  and  there  looking  over  the  bodies 
that  were  unclaimed,  that  no  one  knew,  and  from  those  unclaimed 
bodies  the  state  in  that  section  gave  the  college  the  permission  to  take 
for  scientific  investigation  or  into  the  anatomy  room. 

On  one  occasion,  I  stood  there  as  the  police  force  brought  into 
the  morgue  a  beautiful  girl,  seemingly,  to  look  at  her,  and  one  of  the 
men  said,  "This  lady  is  a  graduate  from  the  slum,  and  we  found  her 
lifeless  in  the  gutter." 

That  so  impressed  me  that  I  became  immediately  interested  in 
that  lady,  and- letters  were  sent  out  all  over  the  country,  asking  peo- 
plue  to  come  and  identify  her,  and  it  was  not  long  before  the  ad- 
vertisements from  papers  were  being  answered  and  letters  were  being 
answered  from  different  police  headquarters,  asking  about  that  young- 
lady,  and  many  a  mother  and  many  a  father,  and  many  a  brother 
walked  through  that  morgue  to  see  if  it  were  their  daughter  or  sister, 
and  O  the  expressions  of  sadness ! 

On  one  occasion  there  came  an  old  lady,  tottering  upon  her  cane, 
and  she  was  repeating  as  she  came  in  the  door,  "Little  Mary,  I  have 


ELDER  THOMAS  D.  REESE  151 

l 

found  you;  little  Mary,  I  have  found  you."  Some  of.  the  men  es- 
corted her  up  to  the  casket,  but  as  she  looked  upon  it  she  said,  "No, 
no,  not  my  little  Mary— but  somebody  else's  little  Mary." 

The  words  so  impressed  me  that  I  thought,  would  it  not  have 
been  right  if  some  hand  could  have  reached  out  and  prevented  this 
girl  from  destroying  that  beautiful  body — because  there  was  every 
mark  upon  it  of  dissipation,  her  arms  had  been  pitted  where  she  had 
used  some  of  the  vile  and  serious  drugs  that  some  people  get  in  the 
habit  of  using.  And  I  thought  to  myself,  what  right  did  that  girl 
have  to  cause  probably  the  sorrow  that  she  must  have  caused  some- 
where to  some  home?  And  I  thought  of  the  words  of  the  old  lady, 
"Somebody's  little  Mary."  There  must  have  been  hundreds  of  little 
Marys  who  had  wandered  away  from  their  homes  and  forgotten  to 
write  back  to  father  and  mother,  and  caused  them,  sorrow  'and 
anguish ;  had  destroyed  the  body  that  they  had  received  and  that 
should  have  given  to  this  earth  again  bodies. 

And  why  are  we  so  anxious  to  say  to  the  boy,  we  are  going  to 
stop  you  from  using  tobacco,  stop  you  from  destroying  your  body? 
That  is  one  of  our  missions,  because,  boy,  your  soul  is  greater,  far 
greater,  probably,  than  you  understand.  As  Latter-day  Saints,  we 
understand  that  our  boys  and  girls,  who  stand  by  our  sides  are  our 
greatest  wealth  in  this  world  and  in  the  eternities.  They  will  stand 
in  the  presence  of  God  with  us,  as  the  riches  above  all  riches  that 
can  be  thought  of  in  this  earth,  because  we  expect  from  that  boy  and 
girl  that  they  will  join  in  the  perfection  of  godliness,  and  we  expect, 
if  they  reach  the  perfection  that  the  Savior  spoke  about,  that  they  can 
in  time  stand  out  in  the  universe  and  create  worlds  like  the  one  that 
we  stand  upon,  with  all  the  mountains  and  the  valleys  and  the  seas 
and  the  wealth  that  are  in  them.  We  hold  that  our  boys'  and  our  girls' 
souls  are  greater  than  the  combined  wealth  of  the  world,  if  we  can 
save  them  in  godliness  to  our  Father  in  heaven ;  and  therefore  we 
have  a  right  to  stay  anything  that  will  destroy  their  bodies,  or  lead 
them  away  from  this,  the  work  of  the  Lor-d. 

And  may  God  bless  us,  that  we  will  understand  this  duty  toward 
our  boys  and  our  girls  and  our  neighbors,  and  that  vile  thoughts 
and  anger  and  bitterness  will  not  be  a  part  of  our  lives,  I  aslc  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen.  . 

The  Swanee  Singers  sang,  "The  Americans  come." 


ELDER  ALFRED  L.  BOOTH 

(Of  the  Fourth  Ward  of  Provo) 

( Bishop  Booth  was  standing  up  in  the  congregation,  when  Elder 
Lyman  called  him  directly  from  the  audience  to  speak.) 


152 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  think  that  you  can  perhaps  sympathize  with  me,  because  I 
had  no  more  idea  of  this  than  you  have  that  you  will  be  next. 

I  have  enjoyed  the  remarks  of  the  brethren,  in  the  meeting,  and 
I  have  been  thinking  how  Zion  is  growing.  We  attempted  to  go  to 
the  tabernacle,  at  half-past  one,  and  were  told  that  the  seats  were  all 
taken,  so  that  presidents  of  stakes  were  being  turned  away  thai, 
early.  And  if  that  is  the  case,  at  half-past  one,  it  appears  that  we 
may  have  to  arrange  after  a  while  so  that  only  the  presidents  of 
stakes  shall  come  to  the  conference,  because,  as  1  understand  it,  they 
ought  to  be  there  in  order  to  get  the  instructions,  to  give  to  their 
congregations  in  the  various  stakes  of  Zion.  I  remember  when  my 
father,  who  was  a  cripple,  came  to  conference,  that  he  always  re- 
mained in  the  tabernacle,  in  a  good  seat,  during  the  noon  hour,  going 
without  his  dinner,  for  fear  that  he  could  not  get  back  to  listen  to 
the  instructions  of  the  brethren ;  but  in  those  days  I  am  certain  they 
did  not  have  overflow  meetings  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  Bureau  of 
Information  building. 

Another  thing  I  have  been  impressed  with,  too,  as  a  difference 
between  those  days  and  these.  As  I  remember  it,  in  the  days  of 
President  Young,  he  said  that  they  had  only  one  honest  doctor  in 
the  Church,  and  that  was  Dr.  Riggs,  of  Provo,  and  he  did  not  know 
enough  to  kill  a  man.  You  have  listened  to  two  of  the  doctors  this 
afternoon.  It  seems  that  they  have  learned  how  not  to  kill  people, 
but  how  to  save  them.  President  McGregor  and  President  Reese,  to 
whom  you  have  listened  in  this  meeting  this  afternoon,  are  both  prac- 
ticing physicians,  both  reputable  men  of  the  community,  and  both 
presidents  of  stakes — so  you  can  see  that  Zion  is  growing.  In  those 
days  I  do  not  know  what  would  have  been  said  if  they  had  made  a 
doctor  a  president  of  a  stake. 

Not  only  that,  but  it  is  not  long  since  that  we  had  one  of  our 
most  prominent  presidents  of  stakes  die,  who  was  a  member  of  that 
other  despised  class,  the  lawyers,  President  Richard  W.  Young;  and 
in  the  early  days  they  looked  upon  the  lawyers  as  even  worse  than 
the  doctors.  [Elder  Lyman  said :  "He  happens  to  be  a  lawyer  him- 
self."] .  It  seems  that  either  the  doctors  and  the  lawyers  must  be 
getting  better,  or  else  the  people  are  getting  more  liberal  in  their 
attitude  toward  some  of  these  things.  . 

But  I  have  been  taught  all  my  life,  however,  that  the  gospel 
which  we  believe  in  embraces  the  whole  truth  of  the  universe ;  and 
if  there  is  anything  virtuous,  or  lovely,  or  of  good  report,  or  praise- 
worthy, our  Articles  of  Faith  say,  we  seek  after  these  things ;  so  that 
it  is  the  cry  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  that 
we  shall  go  onward  and  upward  until  we  become  perfected,  even  as 
our  Father  in  heaven  is  perfect.  Amen. 

The  Swanee  Singers  sang,  "Sextette  from  Lucia." 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


153 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

As  some  others  have  already  said,  it  is  gratifying  to  see  what 
progress  we  are  making.  Latter-day  Saints  are  not  satisfied  with 
preaching  and  hearing  sermons,  or  with  praying  and  hearing  prayers. 
These  do  not  bring  salvation. 

PEOPLE  ARE  TO  BE  JUDGED  BY  THEIR  WORKS 

Those  who  are  merciful,  charitable,  industrious,  studious,  those 
who  are  struggling  to  overcome  shortcomings,  weaknesses  and  im- 
perfections, are  those  who  are  really  Saints.  These  are  they  who 
are  truly  Christians.  In  these  important  respects,  we  are  getting  bet- 
ter all  the  time. 

I  was  gratified  with  the  keynote  speech  sounded  by  President 
Heber  J.  Grant  in  the  first  part  of  our  conference  session,  in  which 
he  instructed  us  to  keep  the  commandments.  He  repeated  a  portion 
of  a  poem: 

And  in  self-judgment,  if  you  find 

Your  deeds  to  others  are  superior; 
To  you  has  Providence  been  kind, 

As  you  should  be  to  those  inferior; 
Example  sheds  a  genial  ray 

Of  light,  which  men  are  apt  to  borrow; 
So  first  improve  yourself  today, 

And  then  improve  your  friends  tomorrow. 

Such  sentiments  are  a  part  of  the  genuine  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Those  who  live  such  teachings  are  really  Saints. 

This  quotation,  as  President  Grant  explained,  was  from  a  poem 
that  was  sung  to  him  by  Francis  M.  Lyman  about  forty  years  ago. 

As  his  son,  let  me  say  to  you  that  I  have  known  no  other  human 
being  who  lived  more  strictly  in  accord  with  what  he  himself  thought 
to  be  right  than  did  Francis  M.  Lyman.  He  has  been  called  by  many 
the  great  teacher  of  the  Church.  No  one  ever  saw  him  or  heard 
him  teach  a  lesson  in  accordance  with  which  he  himself  did  not 
live.    He  never  asked  another  to  do  more  than  he  himself  was  doing. 

■ 

FAVORITE  HYMN  OF  THE  LATE  PRESIDENT  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN 

President  Penrose,  in  his  opening  remarks,  quoted  from  one  of 
his  own  hymns — the  favorite  hymn  of  the  late  President  Francis 
M.  Lyman.    I  am  going  to  read  all  of  it : 

School  thy  feelings,  O  my  brother, 

Train  thy  warm,  impulsive  soul; 
Do  not  its  emotions  smother, 

But  let  wisdom's  voice  control. 

School  thy  feelings,  there  is  power 
In  the  cool,  collected  mind; 


154 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Passion  shatters  reason's  tower, 
Makes  the  clearest  vision  blind. 

School  thy  feelings;  condemnation 
Never  pass  on  friend  or  foe, 

Though  the  tide  of  accusation 
Like  a  flood  of  truth  may  flow. 

Hear  defense  before  deciding, 
And  a  ray  of  light  may  gleam, 

Showing  thee  what  filth  is  hiding 
Underneath  the  shallow  stream. 


Should  affliction's  acrid  vial 

Burst  o'er  thy  unsheltered  head, 

Shool  thy  feelings  to  the  trial, 
Half  its  bitterness  hath  fled. 

Art  thou  falsely,  basely  slandered? 

Does  the  world  begin  to  frown? 
Gauge  thy  wrath  by  wisdom's  standard, 

Keep  thy  rising  anger  down. 

Rest  thyself  on  this  assurance: 
Time's  a  friend  to  innocence, 

And  the  patient,  calm  endurance 
Wins  respect  and  aids  defense. 

Noblest  minds  have  finest  feelings 
Quiv'ring  strings  a  breath  can  move, 

And  the  gospel's  sweet  revealings, 
Tune  them  with  the  key  of  love. 

Hearts  so  sensitively  moulded, 
Strongly  fortified  should  be, 

Trained  to  firmness  and  enfolded 
In  a  calm  tranquility. 

Wound  not  wilfully  another; 

Conquer  haste  with  reason's  might; 
School  thy  feelings,  sister,  brother, 

Train  them  in  the  path  of  right. 


The  intense  feelings  of  some  who  are  engaged  in  the  present 
political  campaign,  I  think,  prompted  the  words  of  President  Heber 
J.  Grant  on  the  subject  of  charity.  Every  word  in  this  hymn  applies 
to  that  same  subject,  and'  to  the  more  or  less  serious  general  condi- 
tion now  existing. 

Ours  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  has  been  revealed — the 
heavens  were  opened  more  than  a  hundred  years  ago — and  we  ought 
to  put  forth  our  best  efforts  to  live  as  the  Savior  himself  lived,  thus 
overcoming  our  shortcomings. 

THE  HOME  THE  BEST  MEASURE  OF  RELIGION 

We  are  measured  best  with  respect  to  our  religion  in  our  own 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


155 


homes.  Are  we  kind?  Are  we  generous?  Are  we  thoughtful?  Are 
we  loving  ?   Or  are  we  unfair,  are  we  unkind,  are  we  dishonest  ? 

It  is  so  easy  to  retaliate,  it  is  so  easy  to  exhibit  temper,  it  is  so 
easy  to  speak  harshly,  it  is  so  satisfying,  momentarily,  to  get  revenge. 
On  these  points  we  have  one  glorious,  one  divine  example.  The 
great  Master  himself  was  persecuted,  he  himself  was  hated,  this  Di- 
vine One  was  crucified.  During  the  agony  of  his  crucifixion  came 
that  matchless,  that  divine  example.  In  that  moment  of  greatest  dis- 
tress, in  the  anguish  of  his  broken  heart,  and  just  before  his  spirit 
fled,  he  crowned  his  perfect  life  with  a  perfect  crowh,  when  he  ex- 
claimed, "O,  Father,  forgive  them,"  I  beg  of  thee,  "for  they  know  not 
what  they  do." 

That  is  the  spirit  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  That  is  the 
lesson  we  are  trying  to  teach  in  this  great  conference.  May  this 
spirit  go  into  every  quarter  of  the  Church,  that  we  may  be  made  hap- 
pier and  better,  I  humbly  pray,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  singers  and  congregation  sang,  "High  on  the  mountain  top." 
Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  David  R.  Lyon  of  the  En- 
sign Ward  and  Stake  of  Zion. 


CLOSING  SESSION 

Conference  was  called  to  order  in  the  Tabernacle,  at  2  o'clock  by 
President  Hbber  J.  Grant  who  presided. 

The   choir  sang,   "God   is   my   refuge  and  strength." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Wm.  H.  Richards,  President  of  the 
Malad  Stake  of  Zion. 

Wm.  Worley  sang  a  solo  entitled,  "If  with  all  your  hearts  you 
truly  seek  me." 


PRESIDENT  KEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  am  inclined  to  think  that  we  will  have  to  arrange,  in  the  future, 
to  have  four  days  for  conference.  It  seems  that  we  can't  get  through 
in  three  days. 

A  LETTER  FROM  ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  have  a  letter  from  the  absent  member  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  Brother  George  Albert  Smith.  I  would  like  to  read  it  all. 
to  you — some  four  or  five  pages — but  I  shall  read  only  a  very  few 
words : 

Owen  Woodruff  is  making  good.    He  is  a  splendid  man,  and  I  hope 


156 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  give  him  every  opportunity  and  encouragement  that  lies  within  my 
power. 

Owen  Woodruff  is  a  grandson  of  President  Wilford  Woodruff, 
and  the  son  of  the  late  Elder  Abram  O.  Woodruff,  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve : 

President  Angus  J.  Cannon  is  doing  a  wonderful  work,  and  in  my 
judgment  ought  not  to  be  released  until  next  spring,  unless  you  have 
somebody  to  take  his  place  who  is  thoroughly  familiar  with  conditions 
in  Switzerland  and  Germany.  President  Cannon  has  endeared  himself 
to  the  members*  of  the  Church  all  over.  He  loves  them  and  they  love 
him,  and  his  heart  is  in  the  work.  But  for  his  mother  and  son  I  am  sure 
he  would  be  pleased  to  remain  here  indefinitely.  His  wife  is  doing  a  noble 
work,  she  stands  by  him  and  does  her  best  all  the  timie.  I  visited,  as  far  as 
my  time  would  permit,  the  various  conferences  of  Switzerland  and  Ger- 
many. President  Cannon  has  nine  men  working  full  time  in  Switzerland, 
and  thirty-eight  giving  full  time  in  Germany,  in  addition  to  the  five  elders 
who  have  come  from  Utah.  These  men  are  all  expecting  to  perform 
missions  of  two  years  or  more.  Many  of  them  are  traveling  without  purse 
or  scrip  and  it  is  a  real  joy  to  see  the  faith  that  they  manifest  and  to 
hear  how  the  Lord  blesses  them. 

We  held  a  meeting  with  the  German  missionaries  at  Leipzic.  There 
were  thirty-three  present.  As  neat  and  fine  a  class  of  missionaries  as 
I  have  ever  seen.  I  was  sorry  to  be  compelled  to  leave  them„  We  held 
conferences  in  different  parts  of  Germany,  the  largest  being  at  Chem- 
nitz where  more  than  seven  hundred  people  assembled.  We  had  a  joy- 
ful time.     *     *  * 

From  present  indications  the  Swiss  and  German  mission  will  be  the 
big  end  of  the  European  mission,  so  that  in  selecting  a  successor  for 
President  Cannon,  I  hope  you  will  choose  a  strong  man  who  understands 
the  people  and  can  do  the  work. 

I  wrote  Brother  Smith  that  we  had  chosen  just  that  kind  of 
a  man;  no  better;  and  I  believe  you  can  all  testify  to  that  fact,  after 
hearing  Brother  Ballif  here  today : 

The  New  Home  in  Basel  is  all  that  could  be  desired.  It  is  a  com- 
modious place  that  will  be  a  credit  to  the  Church,  and  there  is  plenty  of 
room  to  build  a  chapel  sufficiently  large  to  take  care  of  all  our  people 
who  assemble  there.  I  feel  to  compliment  President  Cannon  on  the  pur- 
chase that  he  has  made. 

9 

ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 

(Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church) 

I  think  I  am  duly  sensitive  of  the  position  to  which  I  have  been 
called,  and  I  am  very  grateful  indeed  that  the  Lord  permitted  me  to 
come  into  this  sphere  of  action,  through  that  wonderful  and  blessed 
lineage  spoken  of  here  this  morning  by  the  president  of  the  Church. 
It  has  been  made  known  to  us  that  we  are  direct  descendants  of  that 
Joseph  who  was  sold  by  his  brothers,  who  dared  to  stand  for  that 
wonderful  principle  which  gave  him  his  standing  before  his  fellowmen, 
that  principle  of  virtue    which    has  made  him   and  his  posterity 


ELDER  BY  RUM  G.  SMITH 


157 


blessed  in  all  the  land,  which  has  been  given  him  by  blessing  through 
the  patriarch  that  was  blest  of  the  Lord  to  have  such  a  noble  son. 

"There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  founda- 
tions of  this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated ;  and  when 
we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law  upon 
which  it  is  predicated."  During  this  conference  we  have  been  ad- 
monished to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  Therefore,  we 
must  first  learn  them,  and  from  this  quotation  which  I  have  just  read 
we  learn  that  we  must  obey  the  law  upon  which  our  blessings  are 
predicated,  if  we  get  our  blessings. 

While  my  brethren  have  been  speaking  to  you  in  plainness,  and 
inspired  of  the  Lord,  my  heart  has  burned  with  enthusiasm  and  with 
that  testimony  which  has  been  born  in  me  of  the  truth  of  the  work 
and  of  the  importance  of  it ;  and  oh,  how  I  have  wondered  why  we 
are  not  more  faithful.  But  then  the  thought  comes,  well,  we  are  just 
mortals.  We  are  weak,  and  wonderfully  weak  sometimes.  We  need 
the  encouragement  of  one  another.  We  need  the  support  of  one  another 
as  brothers  and  sisters  in  very  deed.  We  need  the  prayers  of  on  an- 
other. And  when  I  see  my  brethren  stand  up  in  public  and  pray  for 
the  president  of  the  Church  and  his  counselors  and  the  members  ot 
the  Twelve  Apostles  and  then  all  the  rest  of  the  brethren  who  are 
called  to  hold  positions  of  responsibility  in  the  Church,  I  always  come 
in  for  my  share  of  the  blessings  because  I  need  it.  And  therefore  T 
would  like  to  admonish  my  brethren  and  sisters  to  think  of  one  an- 
other when  we  pray  in  our  homes,  think  of  those  who  need  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord.  And  I  testify  that  the  prayers  of  the  Saints  do 
prevail  for  g-ood.  I  think  we  have  a  wonderful  testimony  in  this 
direction,  in  the  sustaining  blessings  that  have  come  to  those  who 
have  spoken  in  this  conference.  Everyone  has  spoken  under  the  in- 
fluence and  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit  in  answer  to  the  prayers  of 
the  Saints ;  those  who  have  gathered  here  in  this  great  conference  and 
the  many  hundreds,  who  are  unable  .to  meet  with  us,  many  of  them 
scattered  throughout  the  nations  of  the  world,  who  know  of  this  oc- 
casion and  are  earnestly  praying  that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  be 
upon  this -conference  "and  upon  those  who  are  called  to  direct  and 
preside  in  Israel. 

I  testify  unto  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Lord  lives,  that 
he  is  blessing  the  land  for  our  benefit.  I  have  gone  through  many 
stakes  of  Zion  during  the  past  summer.  I  have  seen  the  products  of 
the  earth  in  bounteous  harvests  in  all  the  land  that  I  have  visited ; 
and  oh,  I  do  pray  that  the  Saints  will  remember  the  Lord,  in  their 
harvests,  for  he  has  abundantly  blest  them.  Water  has  been  secured 
in  the  many  wonderful  canals  and  rivers  that  thread  this  country,  the 
land  has  been  blest,  the  homes  of  the  peoples  have  been  blest.  We 
have  been  wonderfully  provided  for,  and  through  all  the  stress  of  the 
high  cost  of  living,  none  of  us  are  particularly  suffering.  We  can 
turn  to  the  Lord  and  thank  him  abundantly,  and  as  a  humble  servant, 
of  the  Lord,  I  do  petition  him  in  your  behalf  (and  with  you  I  wish 


158 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  be  numbered)  to  give  unto  you  faith  to  acknowledge  his  hand  in 
your  blessings,  temporally  and  spiritually,  and  faith  to  remember 
him  in  your  tithes  and  offerings,  and  when  you  humble  yourselves 
in  prayer  around  the  family  altar,  remember  those  whom  the  Lord 
has  called  to  hold  positions  of  responsibility,  each  and  all  in  their 
callings,  as  they  may  labor  either  at  home  or  abroad.  And  oh, 
brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  not  be  compelled  to  keep  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord.  Let  us  love  the  Lord  in  such  a  way  that  we  may 
not  have  to  be  compelled  by  the  governments,  either  local  or  general, 
to  keep  our  Father's  biddings.  Shame  on  us,  if  we  have  to  be  com- 
pelled.   For  then  we  are  looked  upon  as  slothful  in  very  deed. 

I  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus,  that  through  your  faithfulness  and  obedience  to  the  laws  and 
commandments  of  the  Lord  you  may  not  be  looked  upon  as  slothful, 
nor  forgetful  of  your  privileges,  your  blessings,  or  your  birthrights, 
but  that  you  may  acknowledge  the  hand  of  God,  and  learn  and  love 
to  live  and  keep  his  commandments  in  your  homes,  and  in  your  labors, 
whether  directly  or  indirectly,  in  his  service.  I  bless  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  that  you  may  have  strength  of  memory  sufficient  to 
take  home  with  you  the  spirit  and  teaching  of  this  conference,  and 
that  you  may  not  be  forgetful  of  the  kernels  of  truth  and  light,  and 
that  you  may  not  be  so  burdened  with  the  numerous  teachings  that 
you  will  lose  sight  of  the  important  things,  but  remember  them  and 
put  them  into  practice,  and  teach  them  to  the  many  hundreds  of  our 
number  who  are  not  able  to  attend  this  conference. 

I  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  you  may  be  Saints  in 
very  deed,  through  your  faithfulness  and  your  devotion  to  the  teach- 
ings which  have  been  given  in  this  conference,  and  may  God  be  ever 
honored  and  glorified  for  his  manifold  mercies  unto  us  as  his  chil- 
dren, I  pray,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  N.  LAMBERT 

(Recently  Returned  President  of  the  Nlew  Zealand  Mission) 

I  am  indeed  surprised,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  called  to 
occupy  this  position,  but,  nevertheless,  I  feel  honored ;'  and  I  trust 
that  the  few  remarks  I  may  make  on  this  occasion  may  be  dictated  by 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

As  stated  by  President  Grant,  I  have  ju"st  returned  from  a  mission 
to  New  Zealand,  where  for  upwards  of  four  years  I  presided  over 
the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  am  happy  indeed  to  report  that  the  New 
Zealand  mission  is  progressing,  that  the  Lord  is  at  the  helm,  that  he 
has  sustained  us  in  our  efforts  to  preach  the  gospel  to  the  people  liv- 
ing on'  those  islands.  We  have  had  considerable  trouble  in  securing 
missionaries  to  go  there  to  preach  the  gospel,  but  through  the  prayers 
of  the  Saints  and  the  efforts  that  have  been  put  forth,  a  way  has 


ELDER  JAMES  N.  LAMBERT 


159 


been  opened  up  for  us  to  continue  our  work  there.  The  people  arc- 
anxious  to  hear  the  gospel,  the  natives  particularly  who  take  to  it 
very  readily,  and  I  believe  the  reason  is  because  of  the  blood  of 
Israel  that  is  in  their  veins.  It  was  my  privilege  and  blessing,  acting 
under  instruction  from  President  Grant  and  his  counselors,  to  bring 
a  company  of  Maori  Saints  to  the  Hawaiian  Islands  to  perform  labors 
in  the  temple.  While  there  it  was  demonstrated  beyond  any  question 
of  doubt  that  the  people  who  now  inhabit  the  New  Zealand  islands, 
and  are  known  as  Maoris,  were  at  one  time  connected  with  the  peo- 
ple living  on  the  Hawaiian  islands,  known  as  Kanakas,  or  natives  of 
that  place.  For  a  great  number  of  years  efforts  have  been  put  forth 
by  people  who  have  written  the  history  of  the  New  Zealand  people  to 
connect  them  in  some  way  with  the  people  who  have  come  from  the 
West;  and  when  the  statement  has  been  put  forth  by  a  "Mormon" 
elder,  that  the  Maoris  at  one  time  came  from.,  the  north,  or  particu- 
larly from  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  they,  have  been  laughed  to  scorn. 
When  directing  this  company  to  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  in  connecting 
up  their  genealogy,  sixty-five  generations  back,  with  the  genealogy 
of  the  Hawaiian  people,  it  has  been  demonstrated  clearly  that  they 
are  one  and  the  same  people,  or  were  at  one  time. 

It  was  my  good  fortune  to  witness  a  great  number  of  the  leading 
men  of  Honolulu,  both  whites  and  Hawaiians,  who  joined  together  in 
honoring  the  Maori  people  who  had  come  there  and  who  had  dem- 
onstrated that  they  were  connected  with  the  Hawaiians.  Never  in 
my  life  have  I  seen  people  who  were  more  anxious  to  show  honor 
to  native  people  than  "the  people  of  Honolulu  were  on  that  occasion. 
Something  like  three  thousand  or  more  gathered  at  the  armory  hall 
and,  as  President  Woolley  remarked  to  me,  it  would  have  done  Presi- 
dent Smith's  heart  good  indeed  to  have  seen  such  an  outpouring,  such 
a  desire  on  the  part  of  the  leading  men  there,  to  welcome  our  Maori 
Saints,  as  well  as  the  Hawaiian  Saints,  because  it  was  left  to  the 
Hawaiian  Saints,  not  to  the  Hawaiian  people  generally,  but  to  the 
Hawaiian  Saints,  to  acknowledge  that  the  connection  that  was  made 
on  that  occasion  was  true. 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  privilege  that  has  come 
to  me  in  going  to  New  Zealand  to  preside  over  that  mission.  I  bring 
back  to  you,  the  parents,  the  fathers  and  the  mothers  of  the  elders 
who  are  laboring  there,  their  best  wishes.  They  are  happy,  they 
are  contented  in  their  work,  they  are  desirous  of  spreading  the  gospei, 
of  being  equal  in  every  way  to  the  demand  that  is  made  upon  them 
as  representatives  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  They  are  doing  a  good 
work.  The  additions  that  are  made,  from  year  to  year,  show  that 
our  Church  in  that  land  is  in  a  healthy  condition.  We  are  not  dying 
out  but  on  the  other  hand  the  principles  of  the  gospel  that  we  have 
taught  the  natives  ever  since  the  Church  has  been  opened  up  in  that 
land,  ever  since  the  gospel  has  been  preached  to  that  people,  has 
demonstrated  that  we  are  preaching  a  gospel  of  temperance,  a  gospel 
that  is  doing  them  good,  a  gospel  that  is  being  felt,  not  only  by  the 


160 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


people  who  are  obeying  it,  but  by  the  people  who  represent  the  gov- 
ernment. Doctor  Pomare,  a  prominent  native,  a  man  who  has  spent 
years  in  this  land  and  was  educated  here  and  in  Germany,  stated  in 
Parliament,  a  short  time  ago,  that  in  all  his  visits  in  the  various 
parts  of  New  Zealand  he  had  never  seen  a  place  that  would  compare 
with  Nuhaka,  a  place  that  is  composed  of  ninety-eight  per  cent  "Mor 
mons,"  and  when  questioned  further  as  to  why  it  appealed  to  him,  he 
said  it  was  because  of  the  cleanliness  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  be- 
cause of  their  teaching,  sobriety,  temperance,  because  of  their  teach- 
ing the  people  to  be  industrious  and  to  attend  to  their  own  business. 
The  members  of  Parliament  were  astounded.  He  was  questioned 
over  and  over  again  in  regard  to  it,  and  yet  he  claimed  that  it  was  the 
truth  in  every  way,  as  he  had  demonstrated  it  while  he  was  an  officer 
in  the  health  department,  later  when  he  was  a  representative  in  Par- 
liament, and  then  as  a  member  of  the  Prime  Minister's  cabinet. 

I  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Lord  will  ever  make 
us  appreciative,  make  other  people  appreciate  us,  and  that  our  light 
may  shine  before  all  people,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Elder  James  H.  Nielson  and  quartette  sang,  "Oh,  give  me  back 
my  prophet  dear." 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 

(Senior  President  of  the  First  CounciKof  Seventy) 

I  have  great  pleasure,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  in  standing  before 
you  this  afternoon,  to  lift  up  my  voice  in  testimony  of  the  goodness 
of  the  Lord  unto  me  and  to  my  brethren  and  sisters  of  this  great 
organization  of  which  we  form  a  part.  The  spirit  of  this  conference 
has  been  one  of  divine  acceptance,  I  believe  to  every  Latter-day  Saint. 
The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  been  with  our  brethren,  our  leaders  in  all 
they  have  said  and  done  during  the  sessions  of  this  great  conference. 

I  had  recently  the  pleasure  of  visiting  Independence,  Mo.,  the 
headquarters  of  our  Central  States  mission.  President  Bennion  had 
already  started  for  the  west  to  be  present  at  this  gathering.  I  had 
the  pleasure  of  visiting  at  his  home,  at  the  mission  headquarters, 
where  I  was  royally  entertained  by  the  young  missionaries,  brethren 
and  sisters  who  have  charge  of  the  home.  I  also  visited  further 
afield,  out  into  the  state  in  a  northeast  direction  from  Independence, 
one  hundred  miles  away  to  the  scene  of  the  Haun's  Mill  Massacre, 
which  occurred  on  the  28th  of  September,  1838,  according  to  the 
records  of  the  state  and  county.  In  visiting  this  sacred'  spot,  I  tried 
to  realize  the  sorrows  of  those  who  were  at  that  time  subject  to  the 
evil  powers  by  which  they  were  surrounded.  Just  a  few  weeks  pre- 
vious to  this  terrible  event,  a  little  band  of  Latter-day  Saints,  my 
father  and  mother  among  them,  twenty-five  families  in  all,  had  left 
the  town  of  Kirtland,  wending  their  way  across  the  state  of  Missouri 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG  161 

and  had  stopped  by  the  way-side  to  recuperate  and  earn  some  pro- 
visions at  a  mill  kept  by  Mr.  Haun.  This  little  band  of  devoted 
Saints  were  attacked  on  the  evening  of  the  day  above  mentioned  by 
a  mob  of  two  hundred  men  armed  with  guns  and  eighteen  of  the 
brethren  were  shot  and  killed,  and  several  others!  were  seriously 
wounded.  I  am  reciting  this  to  recall  to  you  this  great  fact :  the  de- 
votion of  that  little  band  of  emigrants  that  were  on  their  way  west- 
ward to  find  a  home. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  with  five  of  his  brethren  were  at  this 
time  imprisoned  in  a  dungeon  in  Liberty  jail,  subjected  to  the  in- 
sults and  abuse  of  an  unrelenting  guard  during  their  term  of  con- 
finement in  the  Liberty  jail.  The  old  cell  in  which  they  were  con- 
fined is  still  standing  near  the  center  of  the  town  of  Liberty,  and 
that  is  the  only  remains  of  the  old  jail. 

After  the  massacre  of  the  brethren,  and  on  the  following  day, 
my  father  and  four  others  that  were  left  alive  gathered  up  these 
bodies  and  placed  them,  by  consent  of  Mr.  Haun,  in  the  circle  of  an 
old  dry  well  which  they  prepared  by  enlarging  the  circle  sufficiently 
to  receive  the  bodies  of  the  sixteen  brethren  and  the  one  little  boy, 
Sardius  Smith,  and  there  they  were  tenderly  laid,  and  covered  with 
mother  earth ;  and  today  this  is  their  mausoleum.  I  recite  this  to 
show  the  faith  of  that  devoted  company  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The 
brethren  left  alive  gathered  up  the  families  that  had  been  bereaved, 
including  the  wounded  and  the  widows  and  orphans,  and  helped  them 
on  their  journey  across  the  state  till  they  reached  the  Mississippi 
river.  After  crossing  the  river  they  landed  in  the  town  of  Quincy, 
where  they  were  kindly  received  during  their  short  stay  in  that  city. 
In  relating  this  incident,  I  am  reminded  of  the  early  Christians  who 
were  compelled  to  enter  the  colliseum  to  make  a  spectacle  for  those 
more  savage  than  the  beasts,  these  were  no  doubt  entreated  to  give 
up  their  faith  and  thus  save  their  lives,  but  kneeling  in  the  center 
of  the  arena  they  prayed  and  sang  until  they  were  devoured.  How 
helpless  they  seemed,  and,  measured  by  every  human  rule,  how  hope- 
less was  their  cause;  and  yet  within  a  few  decades  the  power  which 
they  invoked  proved  mightier  than  the  legions  of  the  emperor.  Like 
history  might  be  recorded  concerning  the  Latter-day  Saints.  From 
the  imprisonment  of  the  prophet  in  Liberty  jail,  from  the  horrible 
and  cruel  massacre  at  Haun's  Mill,  from  the  martyrdom  at  Carthage 
jail,  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  power  with  God  has  in- 
creased. The  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  induced  them  to  continue 
their  journey  to  these  mountain  valleys  where  they  were  led  by  an 
inspired  prophet  who  succeeded  the  martyr,  Joseph  Smith,  as  their 
leader.  Those  composing  this  great  gathering,  at  this  conference, 
are  an  evidence  that  they  were  led  by  the  inspiration  of  Almighty 
God  to  these  mountain  valleys. 

I  rejoice  because  I  can  say  at  this  time,  as  Nephi  said  of  old : 
"I  was  born  of  goodly  parents,"  and  the  faith  of  my  father  and 
mother  has  always  been  an  encouragement  to  their  children.    I  re- 

6 


162  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

i 

joice  today  that  this  gospel  came  to  them  in  the  early  part  of  their 
lives,  and  that  they  were  among  the  pioneers  of  this  great  work. 
Though  witnessing  the  terrible  scenes  of  slaughter  in  the  very  be- 
gining  of  their  Church  experience,  they  never  turned  from  the  faith, 
but  deep  down  in  their  hearts  cherished  a  love  for  the  principles  ad- 
vocated by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Today  this  gathering  is  a 
credit  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  in  the  remarks  that  have  been 
made  by  our  leaders,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  is  recognized  as  the 
leader  of  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times,  the  prophet  of  God 
in  very  deed.  lie  was  faithful  and  true  even  unto  death,  and  those 
who  have  followed  him  in  his  ministry,  in  the  presidency  of  the 
Church,  have  exemplified  to  the  world,  to  all  the  people  who  have 
listened  to  the  gospel  sound,  that  they,  too,  have  been  inspired  with 
the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

After  seventy  years  of  experience  in  the  Church,  as  a  Church 
members,  and  as  a  laborer  in  this  great  work,  responding  to  every  call, 
I  testify  today  that  I  know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  Savior  of  the  world,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  indeed  God's  prophet 
inspired  to  bring  before  the  world  these  great  truths,  and  to  plant  the 
gospel  again  upon  the  earth,  and  to  say  to  the  world,  God  has  again 
spoken  from  the  heavens. 

May  the  spirit  of  this  conference  go  with  us  to  our  homes,  and 
continue  with  you  brethren  and  sisters  who  are  visitors,  and  with  you 
presiding  brethren,  to  every  stake  and  ward  in  Zion,  that  all  may  be 
blessed  with  the  spirit  and  teachings  that  we  have  received  from  the 
presiding  brethren  of  the  Church,  that  the  Saints  may  continue  to 
grow  and  increase  in  the  knowledge  of  the  truth,  till  they  shall  arise 
to  a  perfect  knowledge,  is  my  humble  prayer  through  Jesus  Christ, 
our  Lord.  Amen. 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

I  have  been  impressed,  as  doubtless  you  all  have  been,  with  the 
large  appeal  that  has  been  made  during  this  conference  to  the  written 
scriptures.  This  large  use  of  them  is  a  testimony  of  their  value,  and 
certainly  justifies  the  eulogy  pronounced  upon  them  by  the  Apostle 
Paul  who  said  that  "all  scripture  is  given  by  inspiration  of  God,  and 
is  profitable  for  doctrine,  for  reproof,  for  correction,  for  instruction 
in  righteousness,  that  the  man  of  God  may  be  perfect,  thoroughly 
furnished  unto  all  good  work." 

I  do  not  feel  adequate  to  undertake  the  formulation  of  my  own 
thoughts  that  have  been  inspired  by  my  attendance  upon  this  con- 
ference, and  so  I,  also,  will  appeal  to  the  written  word  to  assist  m- 
in  discharging  the  duty  I  have  to  perform  on  this  occasion.    I  think, 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


163 


however,  that  my  appeal  to  the  scriptures  may  be  a  little  different 
from  other  appeals  that  have  been  made.  Someone  has  said  that 
when  we  read  the  scriptures  God  speaks  to  us;  and  when  we  pray, 
we  speak  to  the  Lord.  So  in  a  sense  I  give  way,  for  the  brief  time 
that  I  am  to  occupy,  in  order  to  permit  the  Lord  to  deliver  a  message 
to  you,  a  message  of  comfort,  a  message  that  should  bring  great  en- 
couragement to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  And  first  a  testimony  of  the 
majesty  and  glory  of  God,  and  then  his  message : 

"Hear,  O  ye  heavens,  and  give  ear,  O  earth,  and  rejoice  ye  in- 
habitants thereof;  for  the  Lord  is  God,  and  beside  him  there  is  no 
Savior.  Great  is  his  wisdom,  marvelous  his  ways,  and  the  extent  of 
his  doings  none  can  find  out.  His  purposes  fail  not;  neither  are 
there  any  who  can  stay  his  hand.  From  eternity  to  eternity  he  is  the 
same,  and  his  years  never  fail." 

At  this  point  I  recall  a  sweet  message  in  a  rather  popular  hymn, 
namely: 

Change  and  decay  in  all  around  I  see, 

Oh,  thou  who  changeth  not,  abide  with  me. 

And  now  for  the  message: 

Thus  saith  the  Lord:  I  the  Lord  am  merciful  and  gracious  unto  those 
who  fear  me,  and  delight  to  honor  those  who  serve  me  in  righteousness 
and  in  truth  to  the  end.  Great  shall  be  their  reward  and  eternal  shall 
be  their  glory,  and  to  them  I  will  reveal  all  mysteries,  yea,  all  the  hidden 
mysteries  of  my  kingdom  from  days  of  old,  and  for  ages  to  come  will 
I  make  known  unto  them  the  good  pleasure  of  my  will  concerning  all 
things  pertaining  to  my  kingdom.  Yea,  even  the  wonders  of  eternity 
shall  they  know,  and  things  to  come  will  I  show  them,  even  the  things 
of  many  generations,  and  their  wisdom  shall  be  great  and  their  under- 
standing reach  to  heaven.  And  before  them  the  wisdom  of  the  wise  shall 
perish  and  the  understanding  of  the  prudent  shall  come  to  naught.  For 
by  my  spirit  will  I  enlighten  them,  by  my  power  will  I  make  known  unto 
them  the  secrets  of  my  will,  yea,  even  those  things  which  eye  hath  not 
seen  nor  ear  heard,  nor  yet  entered  into  the  heart  of  man."  (Doc.  and 
Cov.  Sec.  76.) 

Such  is  the  message  of  the  Lord,  such  his  word  of  encourage- 
ment and  uplifting  power  to  you. 

Now,  I  think  perhaps  we  have  time  to  speak  a  word  to  the 
Lord,  and  in  speaking  that  word  to  him  by  use  of  the  scripture,  Jesus 
the  Christ  may  be  our  mouthpiece.  I  pray  you  make  what  we  now 
do  an  act  of  worship  and  prayer  unto  God : 

"Our  Father  which  art  in  heaven,  hallowed  be  thy  name.  Thy 
kingdom  come.  Thy  will  be  done  in  earth,  as  it  is  in  heaven..  Give 
us  this  day  our  daily  bread.  And  forgive  us  our  debts  as  we  forgive 
our  debtors.  And  lead  us  not  into  temptation,  but  deliver  us  from 
evil.  For  thine  is  the  kingdom,  and  the  power,  and  the  glory,  forever. 
Amen." 


164 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

'  (Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church) 

I  am  always  awed  in  my  spirit  when  I  stand  before  this  won- 
derful congregation.  My  soul  is  subdued.  I  have  felt  in  my  heart 
that  we  have  had  a  time  of  rejoicing  together  this  conference.  I  know 
with  a  certainty  and  a  surety  that  this  is  the  work  of  God. 

"mormonism"  of  special  planting 

This  thing  called  "Mormonism"  is  of  his  special  planting  and 
nurturing  and  bringing  to  pass.  As  was  read  in  our  hearing  by 
President  Grant  this  forenoon,  "a  great  and  a  marvelous  work  is  about 
to  come  forth."  It  is  coming  forth.  We  are  only,  it  is  true,  at  the 
beginning  of  it,  but  it  is  growing  marvelously;  and  it  has  gathered, 
by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  the  inspiration  of  his  Spirit  in  the  hearts 
of  our  parents  who  received  the  gospel  in  the  old  countries  and  in 
this  country,  and  brought  us  of  the  younger  generation,  to  this  choice 
and  favored  land.  It  has  grown  to  such  an  extent,  through  his  blessing, 
that  we  ourselves  are  not  apprised  of  the  influence  and  power  that  it 
exerts  in  this  nation  and  in  the  world ;  but  it  is  his  work  that  is 
doing  it,  it  is  he  that  hath  made  us  and  not  we  ourselves.  So  all 
honor  and  glory  be  given  unto  him  through  his  beloved  Son.  I  re- 
joice to  be  connected  with  such  a  work  and  such  a  people,  the  best 
people  that  the  Lord  has  in  all  the  world.  There  are  many  good 
people,  many  millions  of  good  people,  all  over  the  earth,  in  many 
respects  as  good  as  we  are ;  but  of  all  the  world,  of  all  those  who 
dwell  on  the  earth,  this  people  up  to  this  hour  are  the  only  ones,  after 
all,  who  have  been  willing  to  listen  to  the  call  of  the  elders  and  the 
voice  of  the  Spirit,  who  have  sought  him  sufficiently  so  that  they  know 
in  their  hearts  and  souls,  as  well  as  you  know,  as  well  as  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  everywhere  know,  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  that 
God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ;  not  only  so,  but  that  he  is  our 
Father,  that  he  is  the  only  true  and  living  God.  Dead  gods — there 
may  be  false  gods,  plenty  on  every  hand,  but  our  Eternal  Father  is 
the  only  true  and  living  God,  and  Jesus  Christ  whom  he  hath  sent. 
We  worship  him  and  he  has  revealed  himself  to  this  Church.  He 
it  is  who  has  built  up  this  Church ;  Christ,  our  Redeemer  and  Savior. 
He  it  is  who  is  guiding  it  now.  It  is  not  President  Heber  J.  Grant ; 
it  is  not  in  his  wisdom  or  power  to  guide  this  Church  aright  as  a 
man,  not  at  all,  nor  in  Anthon  H.  Lund,  nor  C.  W.  Penrose.  It  is 
the  Lord  God  Almighty  that  guides  this  Church,  that  has  founded  it, 
that  has  placed  it  where  it  is,  and  he  will  magnify  it,  lead  it,  bless  it, 
and  prosper  it  in  the  earth;  and  I  say  that  the  Lord  has  chosen  a 
good  people.  They  are  the  best,  since  they  are  the  only  ones,  yet, 
who  have  been  willing  to  listen  to  his  call.  Many  more  will  come  as 
the  gospel  is  preached,  and  the  gospel  is  to  be  preached  in  all  the 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


165 


world,  as  a  witness  before  the  end  comes,  and  there  is  an  abund- 
ance of  preaching  to  do. 

A  GOOD  MISSIONARY  WORK 

I  rejoiced  in  the  priesthood  meeting  the  other  night  to  hear  of 
the  organization  in  some  of  the  different  stakes,  Liberty  stake,  Granite 
stake  especially,  and  probably  in  other  stakes,  missionary  laborers, 
brethren  called,  sisters  called,  set  apart  by  the  power  of  the  holy 
Priesthood  to  proclaim  the  gospel  to  their  neighbors  here  at  home, 
to  visit  from  house  to  house ;  a  good  work,  very  best  kind  of  work ! 
Where  is  there  any  work  that  brings  the  joy  that  the  preaching  of 
the  gospel  brings,  the  reaching  out  to  save  a  soul?  There  is  no  other 
joy  like  it. 

SAVING  AND  THRIFT  ENJOINED 

I  want  to  say  a  word  or  two  upon  another  subject.  We  have 
been  blest  greatly  as  a  people ;  and  during  the  late  years,  the  years  of 
the  war,  means  have  flowed  in  upon  us  in  rich  abundance.  These 
conditions  will  not  always  continue.  If  we  are  in  debt  I  think  we 
ought  to  try  to  get  out  of  debt.  I  think  we  ought  to  observe  thrift. 
A  good  many  people  have  forgotten  what  that  word  means.  Thrift, 
saving,  not  necessarily  being  stingy,  but  save  your  means,  economize. 
We  have  grown  in  the  expenditure  of  our  means  to  be  extravagant  and 
a  good  many  of  us  are  in  debt  heavily.  We  ought  to  make  every 
effort  this  fall,  and  from  now  on,  to  free  ourselves  from  debt.  Then 
we  will  be  free  to  go  and  preach  the  gospel  if  we  are  called  to  go. 
I  know  I  try  to  economize,  although  I  have  plenty  to  live  upon,  yet 
if  I  may  be  pardoned  for  being  a  little  personal,  I  haven't  bought 
a  pair  of  shoes  for  more  than  a  year;  I  never  had  but  two  pairs  of 
shoes  at  any  one  time  in  my  life.  I  have  had  my  old  shoes  patched 
up.  I  have  felt  it  was  my  duty  to  economize,  and  to  practice  thrift, 
to  be  careful  of  expenditure ;  and  so,  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the 
sisters  also  can  help  in  this  just  as  much  as  the  brethren,  let  us  try 
to  practice  old-time  thrift  and  economy.  I  don't  think  it  matters  a 
great  deal  whether  the  feather  in  your  wife's  hat  is  just  about  six 
inches  longer  than  the  feather  in  my  wife's  hat.  I  don't  think  it 
makes  such  an  awful  difference.  And  that  is  about  all  there  is  in 
these  foolish  and  extravagant  expenditures. 

CONTRIBUTIONS   TO   THE   ARIZONA  TEMPLE 

I  rejoice  to  know  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  remembering 
the  Lord.  I  can  testify  to  you,  it  is  my  privilege  to  do  so,  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  are  a  good  people,  notwithstanding  all  their  weak- 
nesses— and  we  have  a  good  many  weaknesses,  I  have,  oh,  so  many, 
doing  foolish  things,  uttering  foolish  words.  I  need  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  every  minute  to  guide  me  and  to  direct  me  aright ;  and  yet, 
the  Lord  has  blest  the  Saints,  so  that,  they  are  remembering  him  in 
their  tithes  and  in  their  offerings.    I  want  to  praise  this  people,  not- 


166 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


withstanding  a  wave  of  criticism,  a  wave  that  carries  us  sometimes 
off  our  feet  in  this  direction  or  the  other.  If  we  will  only  be  a  little 
patient,  that  will  all  pass  by,  and  in  thirty  days  probably  we  can  say 
with  McCarty,  who,  I  think,  was  the  author  of  If  I  inter e  King — 
"Where  are  the  woes  of  yesterday?  The  wind  has  blown  them  all 
away." 

A  little  while  ago  the  Presidency  sent  out  a  notice  which  was 
printed  in  our  newspapers,  asking  for  those  who  felt  like  contributing 
to  the  building  of  the  Arizona  Temple,  to  send  such  offerings  to  the 
Presiding  Bishop's  Office.  There  has  been  reported  something  over 
five  hundred  wards  out  of  nearly  nine  hundred  wards  and  branches 
and  missions,  and  more  than  seventy-seven  thousand  dollars  has  been 
received  at  the  Presiding  Bishop's  Office  up  to  this  date.  More  . 
than  three  hundred  wards  have  not  yet  reported.  Some  missions  have 
not  yet  reported.  In  all  there  will  pretty  surely  be  received  from  the 
Saints  for  the  building  of  the  Arizona  Temple  more  than  one  hun- 
dred thousand  dollars.  Now  when  you  consider  what  the  people  are 
doing,  sending  out  missionaries,  doing  so  many  things,  building  meet- 
inghouses, engaged  in  so  many  Church  activities  that  take  means,  and 
then,  this  added  contribution,  I  say  it  is  a  testimony  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  after  all,  are  a  mighty  good  people,  and  I  believe  the 
Lord  in  the  main  is  pleased  with  us. 

THE  CHURCH   IN  BUSINESS 

One  other  item,  and  I  am  through :  I  hear  a  very  considerable 
criticism  among  our  people  here  at  home  about  the  Church  being  in 
business.  What  right  has  the  Church  to  be  in  business?  they  ask.  It 
is  not  fair.  Other  churches  are  not  in  business.  No,  that  is  true. 
Other  churches  experience  considerable  difficulty  in  raising  funds 
enough  to  pay  their  ministers.  So  they  are  trying  to  combine  the 
different  Protestant  churches  and  thereby  save  considerable  expense. 
And,  since  there  is  no  special  difference  in  doctrine,  no  special,  posi- 
tive point  for  them  to  stand  for,  one  church  would  be  just  as  good  as 
a  dozen  of  that  kind.  But  I  want  to  tell  you  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  this  is  not  that  kind  of  a  church.  The  Lord  has  established 
this  Church.  The  time  was  when  these  Protestant  churches  had  a 
very  definite  and  positive  principle  and  ground  to  stand  upon  and  to 
stand  for,  to  live  and  die  for,  if  necessary,  and  they  did  die  for  it 
by  the  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands,  and  that  principle  was  the 
principle  of  liberty,  liberty  to  worship  God  as  they  pleased,  liberty 
to  give  if  they  pleased,  liberty  to  believe  in  indulgences  being  sold,  if 
they  wanted  to  believe  in  them,  and  liberty  to  disbelieve  in  it;  and 
for  this  definite  principle  of  liberty  they  fought  and  died  that  we  might 
inherit  the  liberty  that  they  purchased  with  their  blood.  I  recall  re- 
turning from  Europe  on  one  trip  with  President  Smith,  and  I  secured 
on  the  boat  for  him  to  read,  because  he  didn't  have  much  time  to  read 
except  when  at  sea,  Motley's  Rise  of  the  Dutch  Republic,  and  after 
he  had  read  it  he  made  this  observation:  "Why  the  persecutions  and 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


167 


trials  that  we  have  suffered  as  a  people  are  nothing  to  what  those 
Holland  people,  those  Dutch  people,  have  gone  through  in  their  eighty 
years'  war."  Liberty  came  to  this  nation,  liberty  has  been  established 
here.  All  honor  to  Protestantism.  I  take  off  my  hat  to  the  work  that 
Protestantism  has  done  for  the  world  in  bringing  liberty,  with  its 
Luther  and  all  who  followed  him.  That  having  been  accomplished, 
there  seems  to  be  little,  so  far  as  I  can  see — and  I  am  not  judging 
or  criticising — of  any  definite  purpose  in  Protestantism  to  stand  for. 
But  this  Church  is  different,  this  Church  is  established  to  be  in  busi- 
ness. That  is  what  it  is  here  for,  so  that  it  has  means  to  help  in  this 
direction  and  the  other.  Why  what  would  it  amount  to  without  the 
ability  to  do  things,  to  accomplish  results?  Do  you  need  help  in 
this  direction,  or  the  other,  in  colonizing,  in  building  up  towns  and 
cities,  in  establishing  this  industry  or  the  other,  that  will  be  for  the 
benefit  of  the  people?  If  so,  the  Church  is  here  to  help.  That  is 
what  it  is  here  for. 

THE  CHURCH  WILL  GROW  MORE  AND  MORE  HELPFUL 

And  it  will  grow  more  and  more  helpfvd  all  the  time.  Do  not 
forget  that,  as  Elder  Ballard  told  us  this  forenoon,  the  Lord  in 
his  mercy,  after  he  had  revealed  the  law  of  consecration,  and  when 
we  were  not  able,  and  we  are  not  able  yet  by  a  long  way,  to  accept 
that  law,  the  Lord  then  revealed  a  lesser  law,  the  law  of  tithing. 
The  time  will  come  when  the  law  of  consecration  will  be  in  force 
and  instead  of  the  Church  being  in  business  in  a  small' way,  it  will 
be  in  business  in  the  greatest  possible  way,  because  it  will  control  all 
our  means.  That  is  what  it  is  here  for.  That  is  what  it  will  accom- 
plish ultimately,  but  now  we  are  not  able,  we  are  not  far  enough 
along  to  even  consecrate  ten  per  cent  as  tithing,  so  we  need  not 
clamor  for  the  united  order,  or  the  law  of  consecration,  not  yet,  until 
more  of  us — and  I  include  myself  in  that  number — until  more  of  us 
are  able  to  accomplish  the  consecration  of  ten  per  cent  of  what  he 
gives  us.  So  I  raise  my  voice  in  protest  against  this  criticism  about 
the  Church  being  in  business,  this  or  the  other.  As  the  years  roll 
on  it  will  be  ten  times  more  in  business  than  it  is  now.  The  very  thing 
that  is  criticised  is  largely  what  gives  it  power  and  influence  in  the 
world. 

I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  may  be  upon  this  people, 
continue  upon  them.  I  know  they  are  a  good  people.  This  people 
shall  be  my  people;  their  God  my  God;  where  they  go  or  stay,.  I 
go  or  stay,  because  there  is  none  like  them  in  all  the  world.  God  bless 
you.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  regret  to  say  that  Brother  J.  Golden  Kimball,  who  came  from 
California  to  be  present  at  our  conference,  on  account  of  ill  health 
is  unable  to  be  with  us. 


168  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

"If  any  man  say  I  love  God,  and  hateth  his  brother,  he  is  a 
liar,  atid  the  truth  is  not  in  him." 

I  have  been  greatly  pleased  in  listening  to  the  expounding  of 
the  law  of  God,  the  weightier  matters  of  the  law,  which  have  been 
the  theme  of  this  great  conference:  judgment,  mercy,  love  of  God  and 
love  of  our  fellowmen.  A  great  appeal  has  been  made  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  not  to  pass  judgment  upon  their  brethren,  but  to  be  chari- 
table unto  all  men,  and  particularly  to  the  household  of  faith.  No 
greater  commandment  has  ever  been  given ;  it  is  the  greatest  of  all, 
that  we  should  love  God  with  all  our  hearts ;  and  the  one  that  is  like 
unto  it,  that  we  should  love  our  neighbor  as  ourselves.  These  consti- 
tute the  law  and  the  prophets.  If  we  do  these  things  we  will  yield 
obedience  to  the  commandments  of  God.  "If  you  love  me,  keep  my 
commandments." 

It  devolves  upon  Latter-day  Saints  to  cultivate  the  spirit  of 
charity,  good  will  and  brotherly  love  toward  the  members  of  the 
household  of  faith,  that  we  may  be  united,  even  as  the  heart  and 
voice  of  one  man,  in  all  the  things  pertaining  to  the  upbuilding 
of  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God  upon  the  earth ;  and  inasmuch  as 
we  ourselves  are  not  perfect,  we  should  not  be  too  eager  to  pass  judg- 
ment upon  those  who  perchance  may  be  less  perfect  than  ourselves. 
Again,  let  no  man  boast  of  his  own  virtue  or  of  his  own  righteous- 
ness; nor  say  in  his  heart  or  otherwise:  "I  am  holier  than  thou,"  for 
let  it  be  known,  there  are  none  righteous.  "If  we  say  we  have  no 
sin,  we  deceive  ourselves,  and  the  truth  is  not  in  us."  But  if  we 
have  in  our  hearts  the  love  of  God  and  the  love  of  our  fellow  men, 
nothwithstanding  our  weaknesses,  there  is  hope  for  us ;  we  may  be 
redeemed  from  sin  and  be  brought  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth ;  we 
may  be  exalted  and  brought  back  into  the  presence  of  our  Father. 
But,  if  we  have  not  this  love,  neither  for  God  nor  man,  there  is  no 
hope.  Let  no  one  think  that  because  he  may  be  in  his  outward  life 
a  little  superior  to  some  others,  that  he  therefore  is  assured  of  his 
salvation  and  exaltation;  he  may  be  wanting  in  many  virtues  which 
may  be  hidden  in  the  hearts  of  those  whom  he  condemns. 

Instead  of  being  so  ready  to  judge  others  let  us  sit  in  judgment 
upon  ourselves.  Let  us  take  an  introspective  view  and  perhaps  we 
shall  see  that  we  are  full  of  weaknesses  and  imperfections — a  little 
selfish — not  always  true,  hard-hearted,  greedy,  envious,  or  perhaps 
our  thoughts  are  not  always  pure.  I  am  appalled  when  I  take  an 
inventory  of  my  own  shortcomings  and  overwhelmed  with  the  gi- 
gantic task  that  lies  before  me  in  my  effort  to  overcome  the  world  of 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS  169 

sin.  Then  comes  to  my  mind  the  comforting  words  of  the  Apostle 
Peter :    "Charity  shall  cover  a  multitude  of  sins." 

Let  us  then  cultivate  charity  for  the  sinner.  How  beautifully 
did  Brother  Talmage  differentiate  between  sin  and  the  sinner.  There 
are  all  grades  of  sinners,  from  those  whose  sins  are  slight  to  those 
who  sin  unto  death ;  but  we  are  all  sinners  for  "all  have  fallen  short 
of  the  glory  of  God."  If  we  can  only  appreciate  this  one  truth,  that 
we  are  all  sinners  and  have  need  of  repentance,  and  will  let  our 
hearts  go  out  in  love  and  charity  towards  all  men,  we  will  not  be 
quite  so  ready  to  condemn  them.  When  we  bow  the  knee  before  the 
Lord  in  humble  prayer  and  ask  that  he  "forgive  us  our  trespasses, 
as  we  forgive  those  that  trespass  against  us."  I  think  that  our  prayers 
will  have  greater  weight  with  the  Lord  if  we  ourselves  have  charity 
and  harbor  no  bitterness  in  our  hearts,  forgiving  those  who  trespass 
against  us.  All  men  and  all  women  are,  to  some  extent,  under  the 
bondage  of  sin,  and  in  order  that  we  might  be  redeemed,  in  order 
that,  we  might  be  cleansed  and  purified  from  sin,  the  Lord  in  his 
mercy  has  revealed  his  glorious  gospel,  and  happy  are  those  who 
will  receive  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  through  obe- 
dience make  it  effectual  for  the  salvation  of  their  own  souls. 

If  we  see  some  others  who  are  not  so  ready  to  lay  hold  on  eternal 
life,  through  their  obedience,  as  perhaps  we  have  been,  let  our  hearts 
go  out  in  sympathy  for  them  and  let  us  manifest  that  sympathy  by 
lending  a  helping  hand.  Let  us  endeavor  to  lift  them  up  and  bring 
them  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth.  Those  that  have  no  love  of  GoA 
and  none  of  the  milk  of  human  kindness,  have  little  chance  to  gain 
the  presence  of  God.  Greater  by  far  are  the  opportunities  of  those 
who  are  still  living  a  life  of  sin,  if,  at  the  same  time,  there  is  some- 
thing of  the  love  of  God  and  of  their  fellow  men  remaining  in  their 
hearts.  I  would  rather  be  a  pauper  and  eke  out  an  existence  in  the 
slums  of  Liverpool,  if  I  may  yet  have  something  of  the  love  of  God 
and  human  kindness  still  lingering  in  my  heart — than  to  dwell  in  a 
palace  and  in  luxury  without  it.  I  would  rather  be  a  drunkard  and 
die  in  the  gutter  having  charity  and  love  for  my  fellow  men  in  my 
soul  than  to  occupy  a  high  station  among  men  and  be  honored  by 
the  world  and  yet  be  wanting  in  this  principle.  The  gospel  has  been 
revealed  for  your  benefit,  for  mine,  for  those  who  sin  but  a  little, 
and  for  those  who  sin  a  great  deal ;  and  the  effect  of  it  is,  if  we  yield 
obedience  to  it,  that  we  shall  be  cleansed  from  our  sins,  yea,  though 
they  are  as  scarlet  yet  shall  we  be  made  as  white  as  wool.  The  very 
purpose  of  living  upon  this  earth,  at  least  one  of  the  great  purposes, 
is  that  we  might  repent  of  sin.  We  are  a  fallen  humanity,  fallen 
from  the  grace  of  God,  full  of  weakness  and  imperfection;  but 
through  the  atoning  blood  of  Christ  we  can  be  cleansed  and  purified 
through  obedience  to  his  glorious  gospel. 

Let  us  then  practice  the  principles  of  eternal  life.  Let  our  hearts 
be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men,  and  let  us  garnish  our  thoughts 
with  virtue  unceasingly.    Then  we  are  promised  that  "our  faith  shall 


170  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God,  and  the  doctrine  of  the  Priest- 
hood shall  distil  upon  our  souls  as  the  dews  from  heaven;  the  Holy 
Ghost  shall  be  our  constant  guide  and  companion,  and  our  scepter 
shall  be  a  scepter  of  righteousness  and  truth;  our  dominion  shall  be 
an  everlasting  dominion,  which  without  compulsory  means  shall  flow 
unto  us  forever  and  ever."  God  grant  that  we  may  attain  these 
blessings,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

There  has  been  a  passage  of  scripture  upon  my  mind  today,  ons 
given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  to  this  effect: 

Therefore  strengthen  your  brethren  in  all  your  conversation,  and  in 
all  your  prayers,  and  in  all  your  exhortations,  and  in  all  your  doings. 

I  feel  that  we  have  been  strengthened  during  this  conference 
by  the  prayers  and  by  the  exhortations  of  the  brethren.  It  has  been 
a  source  of  continuing  satisfaction  to  me  that  the  spirit  and  teachings 
of  this  conference  have  been  in  accord  with  my  own  spirit  and  feel- 
ings. This  text  goes  farther  than  the  mere  praying  or  preaching  in 
a  meeting.  It  goes,  you  will  observe,  to  our  daily  walk  and  conversa- 
tion— to  our  doings.  A  sociologist  of  national  repute,  in  a  friendly 
spirit  of  constructive  criticism,  pointed  out  to  me  sometime  ago,  as 
I  was  preaching  the  gospel  to  him,  some  weaknesses  which  he  had  ob- 
served in  communities  largely  made  up  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  feel 
that  the  instructions  of  this  conference  will  correct,  or  tend  to  correct 
in  the  fullest,  the  weaknesses  which  he  pointed  out. 

One  of  Tennyson's  characters,  "wearing  the  white  flower  of  a 
blameless  life,"  was  one  "who  spake  no  slander,  no,  nor  listened  to 
it."  Slander  and  the  receiving  of  slander  are  condemned  not  only  by 
the  Holy  Scriptures  as  presented  in  this  conference,  but  by  other 
writings,  and  by  the  laws  that  have  been  formulated  against  wrong- 
doing. The  Talmud  of  old  is  strong  against  it,  perhaps  too  strong. 
It  says :  "He  that  slanders,  he  who  receives  slander,  and  he  who  bears 
false  witness  against  his  neighbor,  deserves  to  be  cast  to  the  dogs." 
Again,  "All  animals  will  one  day  remonstrate  with  the  serpent  and 
say :  'the  lion  treads  upon  his  prey  and  devours  it ;  the  wolf  tears  and 
eats  it ;  but  thou,  what  profit  .hast  thou  in  biting  ?'  The  serpent  will 
reply,  (Ecclesiastes  8:2)  T  am  no  worse  than  a  slanderer.'  "  The  same 
writings  represent  Deity  (I  think  it  is  a  misrepresentation)  as  saying 
to  the  prince  of  hell :  "I  from  above  and  thou  from  below  shall  judge 
and  condemn  the  slanderer."  I  accept  the  idea  so  far  as  it  represents 
even  the  prince  of  evil  as  condemning  slander.  One  of  the  things 
about  slander  is  the  difficulty  of  correcting  it,,  although  the  defamer 
may  be  penitent.    Someone  has  given  us  the  suggestion  of  one  stand- 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART  171 


ing  upon  a  tower,  in  a  wind-storm,  scattering  feathers  by  the  pound 
and  then  after  becoming  penitent,  undertaking  to  gather  the  scattered 
feathers.    So,  a  poet  has  said: 

Boys  flying  kites  haul  in  their  white-winged  birds, 

But  remember,  you  can't  do  that  way  when  you're  sailing,  words. 

Thoughts  unexpressed  may  sometimes  fall  back  dead, 

But  God  himself  can't  kill  them  when  they're  said. 

I  may  add :  unless  he  works  a  miracle,  which  he  may  not  be 
willing  to  do  for  our  benefit,  although  we  become  penitent. 

The  slogan  or  keynote  of  this  conference  correlates  nicely  with 
the  course  of  instruction  given  to  the  parents  of  the  Church  through 
the  Sabbath  Schools,  an  elaboration  upon  the  ten  commandments. 
Months  of  time  have  already  been  spent  upon  a  single  command : 
"Thou  shalt  honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother,"  and  so  forth ;  and  in 
view  of  the  fact  that  the  other  commandments  which  will  be  studied 
later  are  so  largely  negative  in  form,  it  is  very  timely  that  the  instruc- 
tions of  this  conference  should  be  given. 

There  is  modern  revelation  teaching  the  spirit  of  forgiveness  and 
tolerance.  My  time  is  very  brief  and  I  shall  read  only  a  few  of  these 
verses  given  in  connection  with  the  Lord  pointing  out  the  weaknesses 
of  his  people  at  Kirtland,  just  as,  at  a  later  time,  the  shortcomings  of 
the  Saints  in  Missouri  were  declared  to  them : 

Now  I  speak  unto  you  concerning  your  families;  if  men  will  smite 
you,  or  your  families,  once,  and  ye  bear  it  patiently  and  revile  not  against 
them,  neither  seek  revenge,  ye  shall  be  rewarded; 

But  if  ye  bear  it  not  patiently,  it  shall  be  accounted  unto  you  as  being  meted 
out  a  just  measure  unto  you. 

And  again,  if  your  enemy  shall  smite  you  the  second  time,  and  you  re- 
vile not  against  your  enemy,  and  bear  it  patiently,  your  reward  shall  be 
an  hundred  fold. 

And  again,  if  he  shall  smite  you  the  third  time,  and  ye  bear  it  pa- 
tiently, your  reward  shall  be  doubled  unto  you  four  fold ; 

And  these  three  testimonies  shall  stand  against  your  enemy  if  he 
repent  not,  and  shall  not  be  blotted  out. 

And  further: 

And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  if  after  thine  enemy  has  come  upon 
thee  the  first  time,  he  repent  and  come  unto  thee  praying  thy  forgiveness, 
thou  shalt  forgive  him,  and  shall  hold  it  no  more  as  a  testimony  against 
thine  enemy, 

And  so  on  unto  the  second  and  third  time;  and  as  oft  as  thine  enemy 
t-epenteth  of  the  trespass  wherewith  lie  has  trespassed  against  thee,  thou 
shalt  forgive  him,  until  seventy  times  seven; 

And  if  he  trespass  against  thee  and  repent  not  the  first  time,  never- 
theless thou  shalt  forgive  him; 

And  if  he  trespass  against  thee  the  second  time,  and  repent  not,  never- 
theless thou  shalt  forgive  him; 

And  if  he  trespass  against  thee  the  third  time  and  repent  not,  thou 
shalt  also  forgive  him; 

But  if  ye  bear  it  not  patiently,  it  shall  be  accounted  unto  you  as 
him,  but  shalt  bring  these  testimonies  before  the  Lord,  and  they  shall  not 


172  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


be  blotted  out  until  he  repent  and  reward  thee  four  fold  in  all  things 
wherewith  he  has  trespassed  against  thee. 

Some  of  us  are  less  tolerant  with  our  brethren  than  the  custo- 
dians of  the  law  are  with  the  condemned  criminal.  In  the  first  place, 
he  is  not  convicted  until  either  eight  men  or  twelve  men  after  hear- 
ing all  the  evidence,  and  arguments  and  instructions,  have  an  abid- 
ing conviction  to  a  moral  certainty  that  he  is  guilty.  Then,  when 
he  is  imprisoned  in  modern  times,  he  is  treated  as  a  human  being, 
and  not  as  an  unforgivable  outlaw.  These  are  some  of  the  facts  de- 
veloped by  our  social  committee  in  the  recent  course  of  instruction 
at  Provo.  They  found  that  the  old  regime  of  punishment  is  being 
done  away  with,  and  that  men  are  treated  as  human  beings  in  our 
penal  institutions ;  that  some  offenses  that  used  to  be  severely  punished 
— the  taking  of  a  piece  of  bread  from  the  table  or  the  indulgence  in 
conversation  at  the  table,  are  no  longer  made  punishable  and  the 
men,  as  they  go  to  their  work  now,  go  singing  and  joyous  with  the 
humane  treatment  and  the  hope  they  have  of  redeeming  themselves. 
They  are  not  escorted  to  their  road-work  by  an  armed  guard  as  form- 
erly, but  by  an  unarmed  foreman.  When  these  men  are  strength- 
ened by  their  custodians,  by  conversation,  by  exhortations  and  by  the 
fair  treatment  they  receive,  they  are  reformed  and  graduated.  They 
look  upon  the  prison  as  a  school  graduate  does  upon  his  Alma  Mater, 
and  they  write  back  kind  letters  of  appreciation  for  the  consideration 
shown  them  and  for  the  opportunity  given  to  redeem  themselves.  The 
thought  is  that  surely  we  can  be  as  generous  and  as  charitable  to  our 
brethren  and  to  our  sisters  as  the  law  is,  and  as  the  custodians  of  the 
law  are,  to  those  whom  they  may  have  in  hand  for  correction. 

May  the  Lord  bless  the  proceedings  of  this  conference  and  may. 
we  all  be  able  "to  strengthen  our  brethren  in  all  our  conversation 
and  in  all  our  prayers,  and  in  all  our  exhortations  and  in  all  our  "do- 
ings," is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

I  have  been  interested  in  everything  that  has  been  said  at  this 
conference.  May  we  all  give  our  faith  and  prayers  to  the  work  of  the 
Church  in  the  missionary  field  of  all  the  world,  for  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  must  be  taught  to  the  children  of  God  in  every  nation 
and  clime.  We  have  heard  the  humble  testimony  of  Elder  Serge 
Ballif  who  is  leaving  for  Germany  and  Switzerland  to  preside  over 
that  great  mission.  Brother  Ballif  is  a  man  of  few  words  but  wonder- 
ful spirituality,  and  he  will  do  a  good  work  in  spreading  the  word  of 
the  Lord  in  Europe.  I  had  the  honor  and  pleasure  at  one  time  of 
presiding  over  the  Swiss  and  German  mission,  and  I  want  to  add 
my  testimony  here  that  those  Germanic  peoples  will  accept  the  truth, 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG  173 

for  they  are  intelligent  and  have  developed  a  wonderful  civilization. 
The  German  people  of  the  Empire  of  Germany  will  rise  and  accept 
freedom  and  truth  and  be  saved.  They  are  a  good  people,  those 
Germans,  and  we  as  the  Church  of  Christ  as  well  as  the  government  of 
the  United  States  must  approach  them  with  the  spirit  of  love  and  not 
of  revenge  and  hate.  No  lasting  peace  can  come  to  this  world  until  a 
peace  is  based  on  the  love  of  God  for  all  peoples. 

I  remember  going  once  to  the  home  of  a  German  peasant  in 
the  little  city  of  Gotha,  when  a  man  opened  the  door  and  went  to 
strike  me  with  a  hammer.  I  turned  to  him  and  said:  "Please  read 
this  little  tract.  It  is  the  word  of  God  to  his  children  in  these  last 
days."  He  lowered  his  hammer,  took  the  tract,  and  looked  at  the 
cover.  I  said  to  him :  "Come,  let  us  pray  to  God  to  help  us  see  the 
truth  as  contained  in  this  book."  We  knelt  down  together  and  prayed, 
and  today,  that  man  who  received  me  in  anger,  is  now  a  member  of 
the  Church,  and  is  here  in  Zion.  Love  conquered  him.  Those  Ger- 
man people  are  the  children  of  God,  and  they  must  hear  us  in  the 
Spirit  of  God's  love. 

This  has  been  a  conference  of  good  and  mighty  words  inspired 
of  the  Lord.  The  subject  of  thrift  and  industry;  of  government  and 
learning;  and  the  divinity  of  the  family  life  as  well  as  the  sanctity 
of  the  Church  of  Christ,  all  have  been  spoken  about  with  great  power. 
These  are  the  institutions  of  civilization,  and  we  as  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  stand  for  them  in  all 
their  meaning  to  life.  The  great  central  theme  of  this  conference, 
however,  has  been  to  know  God  and  to  keep  his  commandments.  But 
we  cannot  know  him  without  the  spirit  of  love ;  for  now  abideth  faith, 
hope,  love — these  three,  but  the  greatest  of  these  is  love. 

Let  us  stand  for  God  and  his  work.  He  has  spoken  to  us.;  he 
has  made  himself  known.  His  prophets  arc  upon  the  earth  today. 
The  great  work  is  being  carried  on.  Let  us  place  our  faith  in  him 
as  never  before,  and  go  forth  hand  in  hand,  and  heart  to  heart  to- 
ward the  perfect  day  which  God  is  preparing  for  his  children.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  General  Authorities  and  officers  of  the  Auxiliary  organ- 
izations of  the  Church,  who  were  voted  upon,  and  unanimously  sus- 
tained as  follows : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

First  Presidency :    Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator, 
and  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
Anthon  H.  Lund,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Charles  W.  Penrose,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
President  of  the  Council  of  Twelve  Apostles:    Anthon  H.  Lund. 


174  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Acting  President :   Rudger  Clawson. 

Council  of  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot, 
George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David 
O.  McKay,  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Tal- 
mage,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard. 

Presiding  Patriarch:  Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators:  The  counselors  in  the  First 
Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Presiding  Patriarch: 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventy:  Seymour  B.  Young,  Brig- 
ham  H.  Roberts,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W. 
McMurrin,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi  Edgar  Young. 

Presiding  Bishopric:    Charles  W.  Nibley,  Presiding  Bishop. 

David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor. 

John  Wells,  Second  Counselor. 

Trustee-in-Trust :  Heber  J.  Grant,  as  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Anthon  H.  Lund  as  Church 
Historian  and  recorder,  with  the  following  assistants:  Andrew  Jen- 
son,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  A.  William  Lund. 

Church  Board  of  Education:  Heber  J.  Qrant,  Anthon  H.  Lund, 
Charles  W.  Penrose,  Willard  Young,  Rudger  Clawson,  Orson  F. 
Whitney,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  David  O.  McKay,  Stephen  L.  Rich- 
ards, Richard  R.  Lyman,  Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer. 

Commissioners  of  Education:  David  O.  McKay,  Stephen  L. 
Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman. 

Superintendent  of  Church  Schools:    Adam  S.  Bennion. 

Auditing  Committee:  William  W.  Riter,  Henry  H.  Rolapp,  John 
C.  Cutler,  Heber  Scowcroft,  Peter  G.  Johnston. 

Tabernacle  Choir:  Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor ;  B.  Cecil  Gates, 
Assistant  Conductor;  John  J.  McClellan,  Organist;  Edward  P.  Kim- 
ball and  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Assistant  Organists;  George  C.  Smith, 
Secretary  and  Treasurer,  and  all  the  members  of  the  choir. 

AUXILIARY  ORGANIZATIONS 

Relief  Society 

Officers :  Emmeline  B.  Wells,  Presidents 

Clarissa  S.  Williams,  First  Counselor. 

Julina  L.  Smith,  Second  Counselor. 

Amy  Brown  Lyman,  Secretary. 

Susa  Young  Gates,  Corresponding  Secretary. 

Emma  A.  Empey,  Treasurer. 

Lizzie  Thomas  Edward,  Musical  Director. 

Edna  H.  Coray,  Organist. 

Members  of  Board :  Sarah  Jenne  Cannon,  Romania  B.  Penrose, 
Emily  S.  Richards,  Julia  P.  M.  Farnsworth,  Phebe  Y.  Beatie,  Ida 
S.  Dusenberry,  Carrie  E.  Thomas,  Elizabeth  S.  Wilcox,  Rebecca  N. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


175 


Nibley,  Elizabeth  C.  McCune,  Sarah  M.  McClelland,  Elizabeth  C. 
Crismon,  Janette  A.  Hyde,  Sarah  Eddington'  Lillian  Cameron, 
Donette  Smith  Kesler,  Annie  Wells  Cannon. 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

Officers:  David  O.  McKay,  Superintendent. 
Stephen  L.  Richards,  First  Assistant. 
George  D.  Pype*,  Second  Assistant. 
Laurence  W.  Richards,  Secretary. 
John  F.  Bennett,  Treasurer. 

Members'  of  the  Board :  Hugh  J.  Cannon,  Andrew  Kimball,  John 
M.  Mills,  Seymour  B.  Young,  George  M.  Cannon,  Horace  H.  Cum- 
mings,  Josiah  Burrows,  William  A.  Miorton,  Henry  H.  Rolapp,  Harold 

G.  Reynolds,  Charles  B.  Felt,  George  H.  Wallace,  Howard  R.  Driggs, 
Nathan  T.  Porter,  Milton  Bennion,  Edwin  G.  Woolley,  Jr.,  Charles 

H.  Hart,  Joseph  Ballantyne,  J.  Leo  Fairbanks,  J.  W.  Walker,  E.  G. 
Gowans,  Adam  S.  Bennion,  Edward  P.  Kimball,  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  T. 
Albert  Hooper,  Alfred  C.  Rees,  Robert  L.  Judd,  Charles  J.  Ross, 
Frank  K.  Seegmiller,  George  N.  Child. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Officers:  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Superintendent. 
Brigham  H.  Roberts,  First  Assistant. 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  Second  Assistant. 
Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  Executive  Director. 
Moroni  Snow,  Secretary. 

Members  of  the  Board:  J.  Golden  Kimball,  Junius  F.  Wells, 
George  H.  Brimhall,  Edward  H.  Anderson,  Thomas  Hull,  Le  Roi  C. 
Snow,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  Bryant  S.  Hinckley, 
Brigham  F.  Grant,  Lewis  T.  Cannon,  Benjamin  Goddard,  George 
Albert  Smith,  Thomas  A.  Clawson,  Lyman  R.  Martineau,  Charles  H. 
Hart,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  James  H.  Anderson,  George  F.  Richards, 
Nephi  Anderson,  John  H.  Taylor,  James  E.  Talmage,  Hyrum  G. 
Smith,  Henry  C.  Lund,  George  J.  Cannon,  Nicholas  G.  Morgan, 
Claude  Richards,  John  F.  Bowman,  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Roscoe  W. 
Eardley,  Preston  D.  Richards,  Brigham  S.  Young,  B.  Cecil  Gates, 
Ernest  P.  Horsley,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  Preston  Nibley,  Arthur  L. 
Beeley. 

Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Invprovement  Association 

Officers:  Martha  H.  Tingey,  President. 
Ruth  May  Fox,  First  Counselor. 
Mae  Taylor  Nystrom,  Second  Counselor. 
Clarissa  Beesley,  Secretary  and  Treasurer. 
Maria  Y.  Dougall,  Honorary  Member. 
Margaret  Summerhays,  Chorister. 

Members  of  the  Board:  Adella  W.  Eardley,  Agnes  S.  Camp- 
bell, Ann  M.  Cannon,  May  Booth  Talmage,  Emma  Goddard,  Rose  W. 


176 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Bennett,  Alice  K.  Smith,  Julia  Brixen,  Augusta  W.  Grant,  Emily  C. 
Adams,  Mary  E.  Connelly,  Elen  Wallace,  Lucy  W.  Smith,  Jane  B. 
Anderson,  Edith  R.  Lovesy,  Laura  B.  Dimond,  Rachel  Grant  Taylor, 
Sarah  Richards  Cannon,  Lucy  M.  S.  Carter,  Charlotte  Stewart,  Lucy 
G.  Cannon,  Emily  H.  Higgs,  Martha  G.  Smith,  Catherine -Folsom. 

Primary  Association 

Officers:  Louie  B.  Felt,  President. 
May  Anderson,  First  Counselor. 
Clara  W.  Beebe,  Second  Counselor. 
Mary  R.  Jack,  Secretary  and  Treasurer. 
Matilda  W.  Cahoon,  Chorister. 
Jane  Romney  Crawford,  Organist. 

Members  of  the  Board:  Eliza  S.  Bennion,  Edith  Hunter  Lam- 
bert, Ella  S.  Capener,  Georgina  F.  Richards,  Vilate  S.  Chambers, 
Helen  Davis,  Marion  Belnap  Kerr,  Genet  Bingham  Dee,  Nellie  A. 
Talmage,  Cordia  H.  Smith,  Zina  Y.  Card,  Sadie  Grant  Pack,  Edna 
C.  Ericksen,  Emily  S.  Stewart,  Afton  Young,  Alice  T.  Sheets. 

Honorary  Directors :  Lillie  T.  Freeze,  Josephine  R.  West,  Aure- 
lia  S.  Rogers. 

Advisors  to  the  Board:    Anthony  W.  Ivins,  David  O.  McKay. 
Physical  Directors :  Isabella  S.  Ross,  Ann  Nebeker,  Edna  Harker 
Thomas. 

Religion  Class 

Officers:    Rudger  Clawson,  Superintendent. 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  First  Assistant  Superintendent. 
William  A.  Morton,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent  and  Secre- 
tary. 

Members  of  the  Board:  Horace  H.  Cummings,  Rulon  S.  Wells, 
Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  John  Henry  Evans,  Joseph  J.  Cannon,  George 
Albert  Smith,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  James  E.  King,  George  F.  Richards, 
Hyrum  G.  Smith,  George  H.  Brimhall,  P.  Joseph  Jensen,  Willard 
Young,  N.  Andrew  Jensen,  Guy  C.  Wilson,  Levi  Edgar  Young,  John 
Wells,  Newel  K.  Young,  Adam  S.  Bennion,  Samuel  G.  Clawson, 
Joel  Richards. 

General  Church  Music  Committee 

Melvin  J.  Ballard,  Chairman;  George  D.  Pyper,  First  Assistant; 
Edward  P.  Kimball,  Second  Assistant;  Anthony  C.  Lund,  B.  Cecil 
Gates,  John  J.  McClellan,  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Evan  Stephen,  H.  G. 
Whitney,  Lizzie  Thomas  Edward,  Joseph  Ballantyne,  Margaret  Sum- 
merhays,  Jane  R.  Crawford. 

■ 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Before  the  close  of  this  conference  I  desire  to  express  to  our 
heavenly  Father,  on  behalf  of  myself  and  associates,  the  deep  grati- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


177 


tilde  of  our  hearts  for  the  rich  outpouring  of  his  Holy  Spirit  that 
has  been  with  all  those  who  have  addressed  the  conference  since  the 
first  opening  remarks.  I  pray  God  to  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints,  to 
fill  their  hearts  full  of  charity  and  love  and  long-suffering,  to  give 
them  a  love  of  God  and  of  their  fellows  that  they  may,  in  very  deed, 
remember  the  teachings  of  the  Savior.  May  the  people  of  Christ 
love  God  with  all  their  might,  mind,  and  strength,  and  may  they  love 
their  brother  as  themselves.  May  the  peace  of  heaven  attend  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  May  the  Lord  bless  their  flocks,  their  herds,  all 
their  possessions,  and  all  that  pertaineth  unto  them.  May  they  grow  in  a 
love  of  the  gospel,  in  a  love  of  truth,  in  a  love  of  their  fellows ;  and 
I,  as  the  mouthpiece  of  the  Lord  here  upon  the  earth,  bless  all  the 
Latter-day  Saints  and  the  honest  the  world  over,  and  pray  God  to 
confound  the  wicked  and  to  bring  their  schemes  to  naught,  and  I  ask 
it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Lorinda  Brewerton  and  the  tabernacle  Choir  sang,  "Inflammatus.  ' 

The  conference  was  adjourned  for  six  months. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Adolph  Mertz,  President 
of  the  North  Sanpete  Stake  of  Zion. 

Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing  in  the  taber- 
nacle. Professor  J.  J.  McClellan  played  the  accompaniments  and  in- 
terludes, etc.,  on  the  great  organ,  assisted  by  Edward  P.  Kimball  and 
Tracy  Y.  Cannon.  The  stenographic  reports  of  the  discourses  were 
made  in  the  tabernacle  by  Franklin  W.  Otterstromi,  assisted  by  Clyde 
Rasmussen;  in  the  assembly  hall,  by  Frederick  E.  Barker  and  Fred 
J.  Barker. 

Edward  H.  Anderson,  Clerk  of  Conference. 


\ 


INDEX 

Page 


Authorities  Present   1 

Authorities  Presented   174 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J   76 

Who  Are  We?  76— The  Chosen  Sons  and  Daughters  of  God,  77— 
The  Responsibility  of  this  Generation,  78 — Responsibility  of  Rich 
and  Poor,  79 — Salvation  to  Israel,  80 — The  Gospel  First  to  the  Gen- 
tiles, 81 — The  Jews  Now  Turning  Toward  Jerusalem,  82 — The  La- 
manites  to  be  Remembered,  82 — The  Lost  Tribes  Shall  Also  Hear, 
82 — Our  Position,  Station  and  Privilege,  83. 

Ballif,  Elder  Serge  F   89 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0   105 

Booth,  Elder  Alfred  L   151 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   Ill 

Clawson,  President  Rudger   22 

Nature  of  Forgiveness,  22 — Three  Evils  Extant  in  the  World,  22 — 
Sacredness  of  the  Name  of  God,  22 — Tobacco  is  Not  Good  for  Man, 
24— The  Bondage  of  Debt,  26. 

Cutler,  Elder  Jonathan  C   138 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 


A  Magnificent  Gift  to  the  Church,  2 — Historical  Events  Since  April 
Last,  3 — The  Spirit  of  Helpfulness,  3 — Pained  Over  Political  and 
Financial  Differences,  4 — The  Lord's  Demand,  4 — -Illustration  from 
Personal  Experience,  S — A  Change  of  Heart — The  Spirit  of  Forgive- 
ness, 6 — Love  and  Forgiveness,  7 — Every  Man  Innocent  Until 
Proved  Guilty,  9 — Regrets  That  the  League  of  Nations  Question  is 
in  Politics,  10— Keep  the  Commandments  of  God,  10 — Conclusion,  11. 


Grant,  President  Heber  J   21 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   83 

Revelation  to  Hyrum  Smith  and  Comments  Thereon,  83 — The  Key- 
note of  this  Conference,  84 — Tribute  to  Hyrum  Smith,  84 — The- 
Saints  Expected  to  Study  This  Revelation,  86. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   89 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   155 

A  letter  from  Elder  George  Albert  Smith,  155. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   167 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   173 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  173 — Auxiliary  Organizations, 
174. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   176 

Hansen,  Elder  Peter  M   130 

Hart,  Elder  Charles  H   170 

Hogan,  Elder  Nelson  D   148 

Iverson,  Elder  Heber  C...   98 

Ivins,  Elder  Anthony  W   46 


The  Teacher  Must  Exemplify  in  Daily  Life  the  Doctrines  Taught, 
46— Foundation  Principles  of  the  Church,  47 — The  Saints  Must  As^ 
sume  Responsibility  of  Carrying  these  into  Effect,  47 — The  Redeem- 
er's Code  of  Laws,  48 — Distinction  Between  Forgiveness  of  Sin  and 


INDEX. 


179 


Justification  of  Wrong  Doing,  49 — The  Example  of  Corianton,  49 — 
An  Illustration  From  the  Speaker's  Life,  50 — Forgiveness  Comes 
Through  Repentance,  SI — The  Word  of  God  on  the  Subject  From 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  51. 

Knight,  Elder  John  M   102 

Jensen,  Elder  Nephi   92 

Lambert,  Elder  James  N   158 

Lund,  President  Anthon  H   11 

Key  Words  of  the  Conference,  11 — Blessedness  of  Charity  and  For-  . 
giveness,  12 — Scriptural  Examples,  12 — Christ  Set  the  Greatest  Ex- 
ample of  All,  13 — Let  Charity  Drive  out  Bitterness,  13 — Forgiveness 
and  Charity  Bring  Happiness,  13. 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   73 

A  Lesson  From  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  73 — "We  Stand  for  the 
Non-Use  and  Non-Sale  of  Tobacco",  74 — Is  the  Sentiment  of  the 
People  for  the  Word  of  Wisdom?  74 — Andrew  D.  White  on  To- 
bacco, 75 — Sentiments  of  David  Starr  Jordan,  75 — Appeal  to  Enforce 
the  Laws,  75 — Our  Determination,  76. 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   153 

People  Are  to  be  Judged  by  Their  Works,  153 — Favorite  Hymn 
of  the  Late  Francis  M.  Lyman,  153 — The  Home  the  Best  Measure 
of  Religion,  154. 

McCune,  Elder  George  W   132 

McGregor,  Elder  Joseph  F   144 

McKay,  Elder  David  0   41 

To  Be  Carnally-minded  is  Death — -To  Be  Spiritually-minded  is  Life 
and  Peace,  41 — The  Happy  Life  Comes  From  Obedience  to  Law, 
41— He  Who  Plays  the  Crooked  Game  Loses,  42— He  Lives  Most 
Who  Listens  to  the  Urgence  for  a  Higher,  Better  Life,  42 — Physical 
Pleasures  to  be  Avoided,  43 — A  Comparison,  45 — How  Life  and 
Peace  Come,  46. 

McMurrin,  Elder  Joseph  W   86 

Mendenhall,  Elder  Wm.  H   127 

Nibley,  Presiding  Bishop,  Charles  W   164 

"Mormonism"  of  Special  Planting,  164 — A  Good  Missionary  Work, 
165 — Saving  and  Thrift  Enjoined,  165 — Contributions'  to  the  Arizona 
Temple,  165 — The  Church  in  Business,  166 — The  Church  Will  Grow 
More  and  More  Helpful,  167. 

Penrose,  President  Charles  W.   14 

The  Spirit  of  Love  and  Charity,  the  Spirit  of  the  Gospel,  14— 
Let  Us  Forgive  in  Our  Hearts,  15 — The  Doctrine  Declared  by  the 
Lord,  15 — Passing  Judgment  on  Our  Neighbor,  16 — The  Church 
Provides  for  Hearing  Where  Justice  is  Done,  17 — The  Plan  to  be 
Pursued,  18 — An  Appeal  May  be  Made,  19 — Unsafe  to  Follow  a 
Rumor,  19 — Let  Us  Possess  Ourselves  in  Patience,  20 — Some  Duties 
of  the  Saints,  21. 

Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L   94 

Reese,  Elder  Thomas  D   149 

Richards,  Elder  Geo.  F   37 

God's  Purpose  in  Creation,  37 — Love,  Sacrifice,  and  Service,  37 — 
Let  Us  Be  Both  Hearers  and  Doers  of  the  Word,  38 — How  We  May. 
Assist  the  Lord  in  His  Purpose,  39 — What  Constitutes  the  Straight 
and  Narrow  Way?  39— Get  Somebody  Else,  40. 

Richards,  Elder  Geo.  F   103 

Endorsement  of  the  Previous  Speakers,  104 — -The  Purpose  of  In- 
struction, 104 — In  Commendation  of  the  Saints,  104. 


180 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   67 

The  "World"  Has  Brought  a  Transformation  Among  Us,  67— Our 
Relationship  to  the  "World",  68— Illustration,  68— Every  Legitimate 
Opportunity  for  Social  Intercourse  Should  be  Provided  within  the 
Church,  69— A  Mistake  to  Marry  Those  not  of  Our  Faith,  69 — 
The  Gospel,  a  Light  to  the  World,  70 — Our  Forces  Should  be  United 
Against  Sin,  71 — We  Must  Provide  Recreational  Instruction  and 
Education,  71— Indiscriminate  Mixture  Deprecated,  71 — Close  Ad- 
herence to  the  Organizations  of  the  Church  Counseled,  72. 

Roberts,  Elder  Brigham  H   162 

Smith,  Elder  David  A   118 

Smith,  Elder  Hyrum  G   156 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   53 

We  are  Here  for  the  Truth  Which  Makes  Us  Free,  54— The  New 
and  Everlasting  Covenant,  55 — Further  Quotations  and  Illustrations 
on  the  Power  of  Love,  5S — In  Harmony  with  the  Keynote  of  the 
Conference,  56 — On  Keeping  the  Commandments,  56 — The  Whole 
Duty  of  Man  is  to  Keep  the  Commandments,  57 — Greater  Compre- 
hension of  the  Gospel  Much  Needed  Among  The  Latter-day 
Saints,  58. 

Smith,  Elder  Winslow  Farr   114 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed   27 

Need  of  Reformation  in  the  Home  Life  of  the  American  People, 
27 — People  Living  Beyond  their  Means,  28 — Prayer  in  the 
Home,  28 — Conversions  at  Home  and  abroad  29. 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed   135 

Baptism  for  the  Dead,  135 — Impressiveness  of  the  Laie  Temple  and 
Grounds,  136 — President  Joseph  F.  Smith's  Dedication  of  the  Tem- 
ple Site,  136 — Love  of  the  Natives  for  President  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
137 — Who  are  the  Native  llawaiians?  137. 

Talmage,  Elder  James  E   59 

Looking  at  Things  From  Different  Angles,  59 — The  Lord  Can 
Not  Look  Upon  Sin  with  Allowance,  60— The  Lord,  However,  is. 
Merciful  to  the  Sinner,  61 — A  Means  of  Treatment  for  Those  Who 
Sin,  62 — Sin  Should  be  Exposed,  62 — Discipline  Required  in  the 
Church,  63 — Tender  Treatment  for  the  Spiritually  Sick,  64 — Keep 
the  Commandments  of  the  Lord,  65 — Toleration  Enjoined,  65 — The 
Church  in  All  the  Affairs  of  Life,  66— Our  Religion  Makes  for 
Honesty  and  Tolerance,  66. 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   168 

Whitney,  Elder  Orson  F   30 

In  Tune  With  the  Keynote,  30— Two  Phases  of  God's  Work,  30— 
Temples  in  this  Dispensation,  30 — The  Kirtland  Temple,  30 — Joseph 
and  Oliver,  31 — Jehovah  Appears,  31 — Moses  and  Elijah,  32 — The 
Gospel  to  the  Nations,  32 — First  Foreign  Mission,  32 — -Earliest  Immi-  ■ 
grants,  33 — Judah  to  Return,  33 — Orson  Hyde  in  Palestine,  33 — 
Later  Missions  to  the  Holy  Land,  34 — The  Keys  of  Elijah,  34 — A 
Greater  Gathering,  34— The  Welding  Link,  35— The  Everlasting  Gos- 
pel, 35 — Perfection  the  Goal,  36. 

Wood,  Elder  Edward  J   121 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   172 

Young,  Elder  Seymour  B     160 


We  Meet  the  Demand 

For  Sanitation  and  Cleanliness 
in  Schools  and  Churches 

As  important  as  the  cultivation  of  the  mind  is  the 
safeguarding  and  promotion  of  health  in  the  schools. 
Physical  culture  is  now  recognized  as  basic  to  mental 
growth. 

Without  sound  health,  students  cannot  make  the  right 
progress  with  their  studies.  And  without  a  clean  and  san- 
itary environment,  every  student's  health  is  in  jeopardy. 

Hence  the  war  on  filth  and  dirt  that  is  now  being 
waged  by  boards  of  education,  teachers  and  parents.  A 
sweet,  clean  school  room  is  recognized  as  the  heritage  of 
every  American  boy  and  girl. 

We  are  lined  up,  too,  in  the  fight  for  cleanliness  and 
sanitation  in  the  schools — ready  with  the  best  lines  of 
janitorial  equipment  that  the  market  now  affords.  Ex- 
clusive agents  of  the  Banner  Chemical  Co.,  we  are  in  a 
position  to  equip  schools  with — 

Disinfectants,  Liquid  Soaps,  Liquid  Soap  Dispensers, 
Deodorants,  Toilet  Disinfectors,  Drip  Fluid,  Paint  Cleaner, 
Metal  Polish,  Furniture  Polish,  Automatic  Floor  Oiler, 
Sweeping  Compound,  Door  Mats,  Rubber  Matting,  Chem- 
ical Fire  Extinguishers,  Floor  Brushes,  etc,  etc. 

Ask  for  descriptive  booklet. 

PESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

Phone  Was.  6967  "^^F^    4-4- E.  South  Temple 


Two  New  And  Important  Church  Books 


Prophecies  by  Joseph  Smith  and  Their  Fulfillment 
A  Valuable  Book,  by  Nephi  L.  Morris 

Was  Joseph  Smith  a  Prophet?  What  answers  come  from  the  cen- 
tury that  has  rolled  by  since  he  beheld  his  first  vision?  Have  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  misplaced  faith  in  him?  After  the  progress  of  a  hundred 
years,  what  has  Time  done  with  his  claims  to  the  title  of  a  Prophet, 

In  order  to  make  plain  the  outcome  of  Time  the  author  has  dug  up 
old  and  forgotten  manuscripts  and  prints  which  he  lays  before  the 
readers. 

Did  you  know  that  Joseph  Smith  foretold  the  War  of  the  Rebellion, 
stating  exactly  where  it  should  begin?  Did  you  know  that  he  foretold 
in  th'e  same  prophecy  exactly  when  the  World  War  should  occur? 

Did  you  know  that  he  foretold  the  fate  of  Judge  Stephen  A.  Douglas, 
the  man  who  contended  with  Lincoln  for  the  presidential  chair? 

Did  you  know  that  he  prophesied  that  this  great  Intermountain 
Empire  should  arise  here  as  a  result  of  the  persecutions  of  the  Saints  at 
the  hands  of  their  enemies? 

Did  you  know  that  he  placed  the  Garden  of  Eden  in  America  and 
that  today  many  great  scientists  agree  with  him? 

Did  you  know  that  he  placed  the  date  of  the  birth  of  the  Savior 
as  April  6th  and  probably  the  date  ef  His  crucifixion  as  the  same  date? 

Does  the  Book  of  Mormon  chronology  of  these  evtents  agree  with 
his  statements? 

Did  you  know  that  the  United  States  has  faithfully  pursued  the  path 
pointed  out  for  her  by  the  Book  of  Mormon  Prophets  thousands  of 
years  ago? 

Did  you  know  that  Apostle  Orson  Hyde  foretold  the  part  that  Eng- 
land should  take  in  the  restoring  of  Jerusalem  to  the  Jews  and  that  his 
prophecy  was  published  in  1842 — seventy-five  years  before  the  event 
transpired? 

Read  this  interesting  book  for  the  answers  to  these  questions. 

Price  $1.25 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith's 

GOSPEL  DOCTRINE 

Selections  from  His  Sermons  and  Writings 
The  Melchizedek  Priesthood  Quorums  have  adopted  Gospel  Doctrine 

as  a  text  for  class  study  for  the  next  year,  but  every  member  of  the 

Church  will  wish  to  read  it,  and  every  student  refer  to  it  for  information. 
Contains  a  large  and  careful  index  of  subjects,  making  it  invaluable 

for  easy  reference  on  thousands  of  vital  topics  on  principle  and  conduct. 
Contains  700  pages,  large,  clear  type  for  easy  reading,  good  paper 

and  handsomely  bound  in  cloth,  $2.00. 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 


4446-48  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 


SALT  LAKE  CITY 


