/  \ 
Ninety-Third 

ANNUAL  CONFERENCE 

of  the  Church  of  Jesns  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly  Hall 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

April  6,  7  and  8 
1923 


With  a  Full  'Report  of 
all  the  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Chnrch  of  Jesns  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  Gity,  Utah 


V    S 

Ti  i 


HISTORY  OF 
the  CHURCH 


Compiled  by   the  Church  Historians 
and  published  by  the  Church 


IN  SIX  LARGE  VOLUMES 


"The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with 
introduction  and  notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts. 

A  remarkable  low  price  has  been  placed  on  the  His- 
tory by  the  First  Presidency  to  secure  the  widest  pos- 
sible circulation. 

Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  and 
Private  Library  should  have  a  set. 

Cloth — Embossed,  per  vol  $1.50  postpaid 


Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  vol.  2.50  " 

Half  Calf— Gilt  Top,  per  vol   2.50 

Full  Morocco— Full  Gilt  Edge,  vol.  400  " 

The  above  work  is  suggested  as  reference  in  con- 
nection with  the  study  of  "Essentials  in  Church  His- 
tory." 

SEND  FOR  OUR  NEW  CATLOGUE  FREE 


Completing  the  First  Period. 


44  E.  SOUTH  TEMPLE  ST. 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


Ninety-Third  Annual  Conference 

of 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
Latter-day  Saints 


FIRST  DAY 

The  93rd  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
at  10  a.  m.,  Friday,  April  6,  1923. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  announced  the  opening  of 
the  Conference. 

AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  1  leber  J.  Grant,  Charles  W.  Penrose, 
and  Anthony  W.  Ivins. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Tzvelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson*> 
George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,**,  f,  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman, 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  and  John  A.  Widtsoe. 

Presiding;  Patriarch  :    Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  Seymour  B.  Young,  B.  H.  Rob- 
erts, J.  Golden  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  Charles 
H.  Hart,  Levi  Edgar  Young. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric:  Charles  W.  Nibley,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wells. 

Of  the  Church  Historians:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Church  His- 
torian ;%  A.  William  Lund,  B.  H.  Roberts,  and  Junius  F.  Wells,  Assist- 
ant Historians. 

There  were  many  presidents  of  stakes  and  their  counselors,  patri- 
archs, bishops  of  wards  and  their  counselors,  and  numerous  other 
prominent  officers,  men  and  women,  representing  the  quorums  of  the 
Priesthood  and  auxiliary  organizations  of  the  Church. 

The  following  mission  presidents  were  in  attendance :  B.  H. 
Roberts,  Eastern  States;  John  H.  Taylor,  Northern  States;  Samuel  O. 
Bennion,  Central  States ;  Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States ;  John  M. 

*Reed  Smoot  was  absent  on  business  in  Washington. 
**Orson  F.  Whitney  was  absent  owing  to  illness. 
tDavid  O.  McKay,  presiding  over  the  European  mission, 
fAndrew  Jenson  was  absent  on  a  tour  of  South  America. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Knight,  Western  States;  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  California;  Brigham 
S.  Young,  Northwestern  States;  Key  L.  Pratt,  Mexico;  Joseph  Quin- 
ney,  Jr.,  Canada;  Angus  T.  Wright,  New  Zealand;  and  Benjamin 
Goddard,  Bureau  of  Information,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City. 

The  Tabernacle  was  filled,  all  the  scats  being  occupied  in  the  gal- 
lery, on  the  choir  stands,  and  in  the  body  of  the  house.  People  from 
all  parts  of  the  Church  were  present. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "O  say  what  is  truth?" 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Thomas  L.  Allen,  pres- 
ident of  the  Summit  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Guide  us,  O  thou  great  Je- 
hovah." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  indeed  a  source  of  pleasure  to  see  such  a  magnificent  audience 
here  this  morning  at  the  opening  of  our  General  Conference. 

DEDICATION  OF  THE  SALT  LAKE  TEMPLE  THIRTY  YEARS  AGO 

I  am  reminded  of  the  fact  that  thirty  years  ago  today  we  were 
dedicating  the  Salt  Lake  Temple.  I  am  reminded  of  the  fact  that  of 
the  twenty-six  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  who  were  then  alive, 
Presidents  Seymour  B.  Young,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  J.  Golden  Kim- 
ball, Rulon  S.  Wells  and  I  are  the  only  ones  now  living,  and  that 
four  chosen  during  the  past  thirty  years,  have  also  passed  away  from 
this  life. 

TEMPLE  CORNERSTONE  LAID  SEVENTY  YEARS  AGO 

My  attention  has  also  been  called  to  the  fact  that  seventy  years 
ago  today  the  corner-stones  of  the  Salt  Lake  Temple  were  laid  by  the 
General  Authorities,  and  that  a  contingent  of  the  Nauvoo  Legion  was 
in  attendance,  under  the  direction  of  my  father,  as  major-general,  and 
marshal  of  the  day. 

GREAT  PROGRESS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

I  am  grateful  for  the  preservation  of  my  life  until  the  present 
moment,  and  I  desire  to  live  as  long  as  I  can  be  of  any  benefit  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  grateful  for  the  very  wonderful  work  that 
has  been  accomplished  in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple,  since  its  dedication. 
I  am  grateful  for  the  prosperity,  for  the  advancement  spiritually, 
temporally,  and  in  every  other  way,  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  dur- 
ing this  period.  I  am  thankful  for  the  great  increase  in  the  attendance 
at  our  General  Conferences,  in  comparison  with  that  of  thirty  years 
ago.  It  was  very  seldom  that  we  had,  then,  more  than  two-thirds  as  many 
in  the  audience  as  we  ,see  here  today,  with  the  exception  of  Sundays, 
when,  of  course,  we  always  had  more  people  than  this  building  could 
accommodate. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


GENERAL  STATISTICAL  INFORMATION 

It  has  been  customary  at  the  April  Conference  to-  give  some  sta- 
tistics regarding  the  expenditure  of  the  tithes  of  the  people,  our  mis- 
sion work,  and  other  items ;  and,  as  a  rule,  during  the  time  that  I  have 
presided  over  the  Church,  I  have  read  those  statistics  at  the  close  of 
my  remarks;  but,  today  I  have  decided  to  read  them  first  and  trust 
to  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  that  the  latter  part  of  my  remarks  may 
perhaps  be  more  interesting  and  more  inspiring  than  statistics. 

Following  are  the  expenditures  from  the  tithes  of  the  Church  for 
the  year  1922 : 

STAKE  AND  WARD  PURPOSES: 

There  has  been  returned  from  the  tithes  to  the  stakes  and  wards 

for  their  maintenance  and  operation  $  928,859.00 

EDUCATION: 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  Church  schools.  771,490.00 
TEMPLES : 

Expended  for  the  construction,  maintenance  and  operation  of 

temples    168,371.00 

CHARITIES : 

For  the  care  of  the  worthy  poor  and  other  charitable  purposes, 

including  hospital  treatment    273,657.00 

MISSIONS : 

For  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  all  the  missions,  and  for 

the  erection  of  places  of  worship  and  other  buildings  in  the 

missions    615,461.00 

TOTAL:   $2,757,838.00 

which  has  been  taken  from  the  tithes  and  returned  by  the 
Trustee-in-Trust  to  the  Saints  for  the  maintenance  and  operation 
of  the  stakes  and  wards,  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of 
Church  schools  and  temples,  for  charities  and  for  mission 
activities. 

OTHER  CHARITIES: 

In  addition  to  charities  paid  out  of  the  tithes,  (as  above  stated) 
there  have  also  been  disbursed  the  fast  offerings  and  Relief  So- 
ciety charities,  amounting  to  $323,638.00,  which,  added  to  the 
$273,657.00  paid  from  the  tithes,  makes  a  total  of  Church  charities$  597,295.00 

MISSIONS. 

In  addition  to  the  large  sum  paid  out  of  Church  funds'  for 
mission  purposes,  amounting  to  $615,460.00,  we  estimate  that 
there  has  been  sent  to  missionaries  by  their  families  and  friends, 
the  sum  of  $887,500.00.  Estimating  the  value  of  the  services  of 
1,775  missionaries  at  $1,000.00  per  year  each,  viz  $1,775,000, 
makes  a  total  expenditure  for  the  missionary  work  of  the  Church 
for  the  year  1922  $3,277,960.00 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


STATISTICAL  REPORT  COMPILED  FROM  THE  RECORDS  OF 
THE  YEAR  1922 

Church  Growth : 
Children  blessed  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  Church  in  the 


stakes  and  missions    19,703 

Children  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions   14,440 

Converts  baptized  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  stakes  and 

missions    6,376 

There  were  at  the  close  of  the  year  87  stakes  of  Zion,  883  wards, 


61  independent  branches  connected  with  the  stakes,  24  missions 
and  733  branches  in  the  missions.  Since  the  first  of  the  year  the 
Los  Angeles  stake  has  been  organized,  making  88  stakes  today. 

Social  Statistics 

Birth  rate — 36  per  thousand. 
Marriage  rate — 14  per  thousand. 
Death  rate — 8.3  per  thousand. 

There  are  155,606  persons  in  the  Church  who  are  married;  of 
this  number,  there  were  243  persons  divorced  in  the  year  1922. 
Families  owning  their  own  homes — 75  per  cent. 

Missionary  Activities 


Missionaries  laboring  in  the  stakes  of  Zion   2,552 

Number  on  foreign  missions   1,775 


Total  number  performing  special  missionary  labors  at  home  and 

abroad    4,327 

Books  of  Mormon  and  other  Church  books  distributed  in  stakes 

and  missions    286,702 

Gospel  tracts  distributed  in  stakes  and  missions   6,601,132 

Gospel  meetings  held  in  stakes  and  missions   153,437 


Temple  Work 

There  were  43,207  persons  recommended  to  the  temples  during 
the  year  1922. 

Ordinances  for  the  living  and  dead  performed  in  the  temples  in 


the  year  1922    768,546 

Educational  Statistics 

Attending  colleges  and   universities   3,845 

Enrolled   in  high   schools   27,230 

Enrolled  in  district  schools   100,513 

Total  attending  schools    131,588 


Nearly  every  child  of  school  age  is  attending  school,  except  480 
physically  unable  to  attend,  and  2,497  who-,  in  consequence  of 
distance  from  school,  and  other  conditions,  are  not  attending. 
There  arc  only  535  adult  persons  in  the  stakes  who  cannot 
read  the  English  language. 

Occupations 

There  are  113,000  Latter-day  Saints  employed  in  all  kinds  and 
varieties  of  occupations.  Of  this  number  86,780  are  employed  in 
productive  occupations.  "Productive  occupations"  means  those 
that  the  Government  classes  as  productive. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


CLEAN   UP   TOWNS   AND  VILLAGES 

It  is  expected  there  will  be  a  great  increase  in  the  tourist  travel 
through  the  state  from  this  time  on,  particularly  through  the  southern 
part  of  the  state,  where  the  government  and  the  railroads  are  spending 
large  sums  of  money  to  induce  tourists  to  visit  Zion  National  Park, 
Bryce  Canyon,  Cedar  Breaks,  and  the  Grand  Canyon  of  the  Colorado. 
In  view  of  this,  our  people  should  take  pride  in  cleaning  up.  and  grad- 
ing their  streets,  fixing  their  fences,  planting  trees,  and  in  every  way 
making  their  towns  and  villages  more  attractive. 

TEMPLES  AND  MEETING  HOUSES 

The  Alberta  Temple  is  practically  completed.  Its  furnishing  and 
equipment  is  in  process.  It  will  be  ready  for  dedication  by  August  1, 
1923. 

The  building  of  the  Arizona  Temple  is  under  way.  It  is  expected 
that  it  will  be  completed  within  two  years. 

Extensive  alterations  and  improvements  will  be  carried  out  this 
year  in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple,  to  provide  facilities  for  the  large  num- 
ber who>  visit  the  temple.  Comparative  report  of  total  ordinances  per- 
formed in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple:  1918,  158,887;  1919,  189,593;  1920, 
212,514;  1921,  300,474;  1922,  413,478,  an  increase  of  nearly  three  hun- 
dred per  cent  since  1918, — a  most  remarkable  and  wonderful  record. 
And  our  other  temples,  with  the  exception  of  St.  George,  where  the 
population  has  decreased,  have  also-  had  remarkable  and  splendid  in- 
creases. 

A  splendid  new  meetinghouse  has  been  erected  in  Honolulu  and 
will  be  dedicated  in  the  very  near  future. 

A  mission  home  is  in  process  of  erection  in  Atlanta,  Georgia,  for 
the  accommodation  of  the  president  and  office  staff  of  the  Southern 
States  mission,  the  only  mission  of  the  United  States  that  has  not 
been  furnished  with  suitable  quarters  for  its  president.  Quite  a  number 
of  chapels,  some  large  and  beautiful,  are  being  erected  in  most  of  the 
missions  of  the  United  States. 

THE  PRIMARY  CONVALESCENT  HOME 

The  Primary  Home  is  taking  care  of  from  twenty-five  to  thirty 
children,  who  need  expert  surgical  and  nursing  treatment.  The  Church 
has  expended  considerable  means  in  preparing  and  equipping  this  home 
for  these  little  children.  Since  then  it  has  been  very  largely  supported 
by  the  gifts  of  the  Primary  children  and  other  benevolent  persons,  The 
Rotary  Club  of  Salt  Lake  City  has  just  donated  $1,000  to  this  chil- 
dern's  home. 

TRAINING  OF  THE  AARONIC  PRIESTHOOD 

A  commendable  work  is  being  done  in  all  the  wards  and  stakes 
in  the  development  and  training  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  and  this 
good  work  should  be  continued. 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


TITHES  RETURNED  TO  THE  STAKES 

I  should  like  to  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  amount  of 
tithes  returned  to  the  stakes,  and  the  total  amount  of  charity,  including 
that  of  the  relief  society  and  the  Fast  day  donations,  amounts  to  over 
$3,300,000.  Considering  the  limited  membership  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  to  my  mind  this  is  a  marvelous 
and  wonderful  showing  of  the  liberality  of  the  people,  and  of  their 
willingness  to  contribute  for  the  support  and  erection  of  meetinghouses, 
the  support  and  erection  of  schoolhuses,  and  for  educational,  charitable 
and  church  purposes  generally. 

REMARKABLE  INCREASE  IN  TEMPLE  WORK 

I  am  particularly  pleased  with  the  very  remarkable  increase  in 
the  labor  being  performed  in  our  temples.  There  is  no  work  in  which 
the  Latter-day  Saints  are  engaged  which  brings  greater  peace  and  joy 
to  the  human  heart  than  laboring  in  the  temples  for  the  salvation  of  our 
dead.  This  vicarious  labor  is  one  of  the  greatest  that  Latter-day 
Saints  can  be  engaged  in.  It  is  one  that  brings  greater  satisfaction  and 
joy  than  almost  any  other  in  the  world,  and  it  is  one  in  which  the 
Latter-day  Saints  have  always  taken  great  pride  and  great  interest.  I 
believe  there  is  no  money  expended  by  the  Church  or  by  the  individual 
members  that  has  brought  more  comfort  and  happiness  to  the  people 
than  that  expended  for  the  erection  of  temples  and  for  the  labor  per- 
formed therein. 

I  am  pleased  to  hear  that  the  temple  erected  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands 
is  doing  a  great  deal  by  way  of  advertising  the  Latter-day  Saints  and 
causing  a  great  many  influential  people, — tourists  visiting  those  won- 
derful islands, — to  take  an  interest  in  the  literature  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  hear  nothing  but  good  reports  from  that  temple ;  and  I  also 
hear  very  wonderful  and  splendid  reports  concernnig  the  spirit  of 
good-will  that  comes  through  such  visits  to  the  temple  that  is  not  yet 
dedicated  in  Canada.  I  believe  Brother  Wood,  the  president  of  the 
Alberta  stake,  might  be  willing  to  put  off  the  dedication  another  year, 
on  account  of  the  great  good  that  he  thinks  would  be  accomplished 
iSy  admitting  strangers  into  our  temple  before  it  is  dedicated.  But, 
we  have  erected  that  temple,  of  course,  for  temple  ordinances,  and  when 
it  is  ready  for  dedication,  we  will  dedicate  it  that  it  may  be  utilized  for 
the  purposes  expected  of  us  by  the  Lord. 

THE' BEET  INDUSTRY  AND  THE  CHURCH 

A  year  ago,  in  this  stand,  at  the  opening  of  the  Conference,  I  de- 
voted neraly  the  entire  time  in  my  address,  to  the  beet  industry.  I 
urged  upon  our  people,  during  that  conference,  the  planting  of  sugar 
beets,  and  announced  that  I  believed  it  would  be  greatly  to  their  ad- 
vantage if  they  would  do  so.  This  was  my  opinion  then.  I  am 
pleased  to  say  that  during  the  past  year  the  industry  has  been  very 
successful,  and  that  today  it  is  in  a  very  much  better  financial  condi- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


tion  than  it  was  a  year  ago.  Two  years  ago  this  coming  October  the 
Church  went  in  debt  for  the  first  time  in  many  years;  the 
Trustee-in-Trust  borrowed  in  New  York  and  Chicago  in  the  neigh- 
borhood of  two  millions  of  dollars,  to  help  the  sugar  industry.  It  went 
against  the  grain,  to  run  the  Church  in  debt,  but  it  was  the  unanimous 
opinion  of  the  Presidency  and  Apostles  that  it  was  a  wise  thing  to 
foster  this  industry,  by  borrowing  the  money  necessary  to  protect  and 
safeguard  it.  I  am  very  pleased  to  announce  to  the  Latter-day  Saints 
that  all  of  those  obligations  of  the  Trustee-in-Trust,  incurred  for 
the  support  of  the  sugar  industry,  have  been  paid,  and  once  more  the 
Church  has  no  direct  floating  indebtedness,  barring  one  little  note  of 
$10,000,  that  we  did  not  get  a  chance  to  take  up. 

PEOPLE  ADVISED  TO  STAY  ON  THE  FARM 

I  believe  it  will  be  to  the  interests  of  the  farmers  to  raise  sugar 
beets  during  the  coming  year.  I  believe  that  the  sugar  industry, 
in  our  community,  is  one  of  the  greatest  beneficial  industries  that  has 
ever  been  established.  I  feel  that  President  Wilford  Woodruff  was 
inspired  of  the  Lord  to  call  upon  the  people  to  invest  their  means  in  that 
great  enterprise;  although  some  of  the  brightest  of  our  business 
men  had  no  faith  in  the  final  outcome.  President  Woodruff  felt 
that  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  pointed  to  the  establishment  of  that 
industry,  so  as  to  have  an  increase  of  the  products  of  the  soil.  It  has 
always  fallen  to  the  lot  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  be  engaged  in  tilling 
the  soil.  From  the  days  of  President  Brigham  Young  until  the 
present  time,  the  leaders  of  this  people  have  always  advised  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  as  far  as  possible,  to  be  engaged  in  tilling  the  soil, 
and  in  manufacturing,  and  in  other  productive  enterprises.  Erigham 
Young  preached  that  the  Saints  perhaps  could  go  to  California  and 
get  sudden  wealth  and  come  back  with  gold,  but  said  it  would  do  them 
very  little  good,  while  if  they  stayed  on  their  farms  and  engaged  in 
cultivating  the  soil,  making  homes  and  in  rearing  ther  famlies,  they 
would  gain  eternal  riches.  I  believe  firmly  that  the  very  best  place  in 
all  the  world  to  rear  Latter-day  Saints  is  on  the  farm,  and  that  about 
the  poorest  place  to  rear  Latter-day  Saints  is  in  the  biggest  city  in 
which  you  can  locate  them.  There  seems  to  be  strength,  physical,  moral 
and  religious,  which  comes  to  those  engaged  in  cultivating  the  soil 
which,  on  an  average,  is  far  superior  to  that  of  any  other  occupation  I 
know  anything  about. 

At  the  present  time  there  is  quite  a  feeling  that  it  is  not  worth 
while  to  stay  on  the  farm,  that  the  thing  to  do  is  to  sell  the  farm,  or 
if  it  is  mortgaged  for  a  large  amount,  to  say:  "Well,  we  will  let 
the  man  who  owns  the  mortgage  cultivate  it.  It  does  not  pay  us  to 
cultivate  it."  This  is  wrong.  I  believe  that  with  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord  and  with  economy  and  the  raising  of  products  from  the 
ground,  and  utilizing  those  products  to  feed  cattle,  sheep  and  hogs, 
and  to  increase  your  income  by  producing  butter,  egges,  cheese  and  in 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


other  ways,  that  the  farms  can  be  made  profitably  productive.  I  re- 
member that  when  I  was  in  the  far-off  land  of  Japan,  I  ate  butter  from 
Scandinavia,  and  I  know  that  while  I  was  in  England  the  great 
majority  of  the  time  I  ate  butter  from  Scandinavia.  If  butter  can  be 
shipped  all  the  way  from  Scandinavia  to  Japan,  I  believe  that  butter 
can  be  raised  and  shipped  at  a  profit  out  of  this  inter-mountain  coun- 
try. There  are  no  finer  farms  to  be  found  anywhere  than  can  be 
found  in  this  inter-mountain  country.  It  is  the  best  dairy  country. 
There  is  no  stronger,  more  substantial  and  splendid  soil  that  will  pro- 
duce year  after  year  if  it  is  only  treated  right,  than  that  of  this  inter- 
mountain  country. 

THRIFT,  ECONOMY  AND  HARD  TIMES 

We  talk  about  hard  times.  I  wish  to  say  that  I  have  read  more 
than  once  the  wise  sayings  of  Benjamin  Franklin,  on  thrift  and  econ- 
omy, and  his  reference  to  the  people's  complaint  against  the  tax  burdens 
laid  upon  them.  He  says  that  the  luxuries  in  which  the  people  indulge 
and  the  wasteful  expenditure  of  their  money  is  a  far  greater  burden, 
many  times  over,  than  the  taxes  and  the  public  burdens  the  people  have 
to  meet.  Today,  the  great  majority  of  all  the  money  put  into  auto- 
mobiles is  for  pleasure.  In  the  state  of  Utah  we  have  about  50,000 
automobiles.  I  think  we  have  a  few  more  than  that.  1  do  not  be- 
lieve the  depreciation,  wear  and  tear,  the  oil,  gasoline,  and  the  tires, 
will  cost  less  than  $50.00  a  month  per  car  on  an  average;  50,000  cars 
at  fifty  dollars  each  a  month  is  $2,500,000;  multiplied  by  twelve,  is 
$30,000,000  a  year,  principally  an  unnecessary  expense.  I  believe  that 
this  figure  could  be  cut  squarely  in  two,  if  the  people  made  up  their 
minds  to  do  it.  I  believe  that  nearly  all  of  the  hardships  of  a  majority 
of  the  people  would  disappear  if  the}'  were  willing  to  forego  the  habit 
of  wearing  silk  stockings,  so  to  speak,  and  get  back  to  the  ordinary 
manner  of  dressing  in  a  rather  quiet,  unassuming  way;  stay  away 
from  about  nine-tenths  of  the  picture  shows  that  they  attend ;  return 
to  the  ways  of  thrift  and  economy  that  I  have  heard  preached  from 
this  stand  from  the  days  of  President  Brigham  Young  until  today. 

I  believe  that  the  burdens  that  are  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints  would 
be  very  light  indeed  had  the  people  listened  to  the  advice  of  our  late 
beloved  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  to  get  out  of  debt,  whai  everything 
was  booming,  when  they  could  sell  all  of  their  sheep'  and  their  cat- 
tle and  nearly  everything  they  had  for  about  two  or  three  times  its 
cost  instead  of  running,  as  they  did,  further  in  debt,  increasing  their 
mortgages  on  homes  and  live-stock,  believing  that  every  dollar  they 
could  borrow  meant  increased  wealth  to  them.  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith's  warning  sank  into  my  heart.  If  I  have  had  one  opportunity, 
being  in  debt,  to  go  in  deeper,  I  have  had  scores  offered  to  me,  but 
I  remembered  the  teaching  of  President  Smith  and  I  went  to  work 
that  day  to  get  out  of  debt  and  not  to  speculate  one  single  solitary 
dollar  until  I  did  get  out  of  debt;  and,  with  the  exception  of  some 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


small  loans  on  my  life  insurance  policies, — I  have  saved  by  investing 
in  a  building  society  every  month  enough  to  pay  these  loans — I  do 
not  today  personally  owe  a  dollar.  If  I  had  not  listened  to  and  taken 
the  inspired  advice  of  Pres.  Smith,  I  think  I  should  be  everlastingly 
"busted,"  because  of  the  very  many  good  things  that  have  been  of- 
fered to  me  since  for  financial  investments.  Pres.  Smith's  inspired  words 
found  echo  in  my  heart,  and  I  went  on  from  then  until  his  death, 
singing,  "We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet  to  guide  us,"  instead 
of  adding,  "providing  he  does  not  guide  us  to  keep  out  of  debt,"  as  a 
good  many  people  should  be  singing  today. 

AN  APPEAL  TO  SUPPORT  HOME  INDUSTRY 

Brethren  and  sisters,  support  our  home  manufactured  goods  of 
all  kinds  and  all  descriptions.  At  a  recent  conference,  I  pleaded  with 
the  people  to  do  this,  and  told  story  after  story  about  home-made 
goods,  and  announced  that  I  was  going  to  have  a  Provo  suit  o<f  clothes. 
I  got  that  suit  and  have  been  wearing  it  every  since,  but  it  is  a  little  old 
now,  and  so  I  thought  I  would  put  on  my  black  suit  again  this  morning. 
Let  us  support  our  home  industries.  Let  us  stay  on  the  farm.  Let  us 
remember  that  our  fathers  sacrificed  and  came  here  for  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

I  want  again  to  assure  you  that  the  best  place  in  the  world  to 
rear  Latter-day  Saints  is  on  the  soil.  I  know  of  people  who  have 
sold  their  farms,  gone  to  California  or  some  other  place  to  work,  and 
spent  all  their  farms  brought  them.  Now  they  are  wishing  they  had 
enough  to  get  back  to  Utah. 

"O  say  what  is  Truth?  'Tis  the  fairest  gem 
That  the  riches  of  worlds  can  produce ; 

And  priceless  the  value  of  truth  will  be,  when 

The  proud  monarch's  costilest  diadem 
Is  counted  but  dross  and  refuse." 

We  have  the  Truth  to  give  to  the  world.  We  have  the  plan  of 
life  and  salvation.  We  have  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and 
if  we  will  live  our  religion,  the  Lord  God  Almighty  will  bless  us. 

"Yes,  say,  what  is  truth?    'Tis  the  brightest  prize 
To  which  mortals  or  Gods  can  aspire; 

Go  search  in  the  depths  where  it  glittering  lies, 

Or  ascend  in  pursuit  to  the  loftiest  skies ; 
'Tis  an  aim  for  the  noblest  desire." 

Every  Latter-day  Saint  should  have  a  desire,  above  all  other  things, 
that  his  life  should  proclaim  the  Truth,  and  that  his  life  should 
be  a  teacher  of  the  Truth,  not  only  to  the  world,  but  especially  to  his 
own  family. 

"The  sceptre  may  fall  from  the  despot's  grasp, 
When  with  winds  of  stern  justice  he  copes, 
But  the  pillar  of  truth  will  endure  to  the  last, 
And  its  firm-rooted  bulwarks  outstand  the  rude  blast 
And  the  wreck  of  the  fell  tyrant's  hopes. 


/ 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Then,  say  what  is  truth?  Tis  the  last  and  the  first, 

For  the  limits  of  time  it  steps  o'er ; 
Though  the  heavens  depart,  and  the  earth's  fountains  burst, 
Truth,  the  sum  of  existence,  will  weather  the  worst, 

Eternal,  unchanged,  evermore. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us  abundantly  in  this  conference.  We 
are  going  to  have  more  speakers  than  ever  before,  for  we  are  going  to 
limit  the  time  of  the  speakers  including  myself.  I  usually  talk  an 
hour  in  my  opening  address ;  I  decided  to  take  thirty  minutes  this 
morning  and  I  have  just  about  a  minute  left. 

We  are  going  to  depart  a  little  from  our  usual  custom,  and  call 
on  the  presidents  of  stakes  and  others  to  make  brief  addresses,  not  ex- 
ceeding ten  minutes.  I  earnestly  pray  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  to 
attend  you.  Amen. 

NEW    MISSION    PRESIDENTS   AND  RELEASES 

I  find  that  I  omitted  reading  some  of  the  statistics  I  had  intended 
to  present.  The  following  have  been  released  as  Mission  Presidents : 

Elder  Nephi  Jensen  of  the  Canadian  mission,  succeeded  by  Brother 
Joseph  Quinney,  Jr. 

Elder  Winslow  Farr  Smith  has  been  released  as  President  of  the 
Northern  States  mission,  succeeded  by  Elder  John  H.  Taylor. 

Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney  as  President  of  the  European  mis- 
sion, succeeded  by  Elder  David  O.  McKay. 

Elder  Carl  E.  Peterson  as  President  of  the  Danish  mission,  suc- 
ceeded by  Elder  John  S.  Hansen. 

Elder  John  P.  Lillywhite  of  the  Netherlands  mission,  succeeded 
by  Elder  Charles  S.  Hyde. 

Elder  August  S.  Schow  of  the  Norwegian  mission,  succeeded  by 
Elder  Albert  R.  Peterson. 

Elder  Isaac  P.  Thunell,  of  the  Swedish  mission,  succeeded  by  El- 
der Gideon  N.  Hulterstrom. 

We  are  going  to  release  Brother  Hulterstrom  during  the  coming 
week  and  he  will  be  succeeded  by  Brother  Hugo  D.  E.  Peterson. 

Elder  Serge  F.  Ballif,  President  of  the  Swiss  and  German  Mission, 
succeeded  by  Elder  Fred  Tadje. 

Elder  E.  Wesley  Smith,  President  of  the  Hawaiian  mission,  suc- 
ceeded by  Elder  Eugene  J.  Neff. 

Elder  George  S.  Taylor,  released  as  President  of  the  New  Zea- 
land mission,  to  be  succeeded  by  Elder  Angus  T.  Wright. 

Brothers  Nephi  Jensen,  Winslow  F.  Smith,  Orson  F.  Whitney, 
Carl  E.  Peterson,  John  P.  Lillywhite,  August  S.  Schow,  Isaac  P. 
Thunell,  Serge  F.  Ballif,  E.  Wesley  Smith  and  George  S.  Taylor  have 
all  given,  very  splendid  and  satisfactory  service  in  the  missions  over 
which  they  have  formerly  presided,  and  they  return  to  their  homes  with 
the  love  and  blessings  of  the  Presidency,  and  I  am  sure  with  deep 
satisfaction  on  their  own  parts  for  the  privilege  that  they  have  had  of 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


laboring  in  spreading  the  gospel.  I  am  sure  that  the  Lord  has  abund- 
antly blessed  them  and  rewarded  them,  with  a  rich  outpouring  of  his 
spirit  for  their  splendid  labors. 

ELDER  ABEL  J.  EVANS 

{Second  Counselor  in  the  Presidency  of  the  Alpine  Stake  of  Zion) 

My  brethern  and  sisters :  I  have  had  many  experiences  of  various 
kinds,  in  my  life,  but  I  think  nothing  to  equal  this.  I  certainly  desire 
that  the  few  moments  I  shall  occupy,  I  may  do  it  under  the  inspiration 
of  our  heavenly  Father.  I  am  sure  President  Chipman  would  have  been 
delighted  to  be  here  to  occupy  a  short  time  this  morning,  and  I  should 
have  been  proud  to  listen  to  him.  We  have  worked  together  for  over 
twenty-two  years — President  Clark,  President  Chipman  and  myself — 
and  we  have  not  yet  had  our  first  disagreement  in  opinions,  although 
we  do  not  always  agree  in  the  beginning  as  to  just  certain  methods,  but 
it  is  all  in  brotherly  love  and  kindness  and  for  the  welfare  and  interest 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  over  whom  we  are  called  to  preside. 

I  rejoice  this  morning  in  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  after 
having  spent  now  seventy  years  of  my  life,  having  been  born  in  the 
Church  and  having  gone  through  the  various  vicissitudes  through  which 
the  Church  has  been  called  upon  to  pass,  during  that  time.  My  testimony 
today  is  as  bright,  and  my  assurance  as  great  as  ever  and  my  determina- 
tion perhaps  stronger  than  ever  before,  and  my  desire  is  to  remain 
faithful  to  this  great  Latter-day  work.  I  have  had  the  honor,  upon  two 
occasions,  to  go  out  into  the  world  to  lift  my  voice  in  calling  the  children 
of  men  to  repentance,  and  I  have  rejoiced  exceedingly  in  that  labor, 
and  I  have  continued  work  at  home  in  a  small  degree  in  this  great 
Latter-day  cause. 

I  could  not  help  but  reflect  when  President  Grant  made  the  remark 
that  only  President  Seymour  B.  Young  and  himself  and  two  or  three 
others  are  still  alive  of  the  General  Authorities  who  were  present  when 
the  Temple  was  dedicated.  I  remember  that  occasion  very  well.  Oh,  my 
heart  rejoiced!  I  think  that  if  ever  words  sank  into  my  soul  as  deeply 
as  they  did  upon  that  occasion  I  do  not  remember  it.  The  Prophet  of 
God  told  the  people  assembled  that  if  they  had  made  their  wrongs 
right ;  if  they  had  come  to  that  dedication  with  clean  hands  and  with 
pure  hearts,  having  adjusted  their  difficulties  and  their  troubles  with  the 
people  with  whom  they  associated,  the  Lord  God  Almighty  would 
forgive  their  sins.  I  rejoiced  exceedingly  in  that  declaration  and  promise 
and  have  sought  from  that  day  to  this  to  keep  in  line.  I  have  known  per- 
sonally every  President  of  the  Church  since  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
and  I  have  loved  each  of  them  with  all  my  heart,  and  President  Grant 
no  less  than  his  predecessors.  His  counselors  are  men  of  God,  standing 
for  the  right,  seeking  to  promulgate  the  interest  of  this  great  Church 
that  God  has  instituted  in  the  day  and  generation  in  which  we  live,  un- 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


selfishly  devoting  their  time  and  their  talent  to  the  interest  and  the 
advancement  of  this  great  Latter-day  work,  ever  looking  into  the  details 
that  are  necessary  to  accomplish  the  greatest  purposes.  They  have 
been  exceedingly  liberal  in  extending  help  to  the  various  stakes  of  Zion 
in  the  erection  of  their  meetinghouses  and  amusement  halls,  and  bless- 
ing the  missionaries  by  bringing  them  home  from  their  fields  of  labor. 
I  have  rejoiced  in  this,  and  I  have  felt  in  my  heart  that  if  we  Latter- 
day  Saints  would  stand  as  faithfully  by  them,  as  they  have  stood  by 
us,  the  Church  would  advance  by  leaps  and  bounds,  because  more  means 
would  come  into  their  hands  from  the  honest  tithes  of  the  Latter-day 
Sains,  thereby  giving  them  the  opportunity  "to  do  more  than  they  have 
been  able  to  do  heretofore,  because  we  have  closed  our  hearts,  in  many 
instances  against  the  principle  of  tithing  which  the  Lord  has  instituted 
for  carrying  on  his  work  in  the  Church. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters ;  may  we  appre- 
ciate our  condition,  and  be  thankful  that  the  Lord  God  of  heaven  has 
given  us  a  testimony  of  this  great  and  divine  work,  and  that  the  Book 
of  Mormon  came  through  the  power  and  gift  of  God  in  its  delivery 
and  in,  its  translation  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  rejoice  in  this 
with  all  my  heart,  and  I  desire  that  the  Lord  will  continue  to  preserve 
me  in  the  truth  until  I  shall  have  finished  my  work  in  this  world ;  and 
I  have  an  assurance,  an  abiding  faith  that  I  will  meet  my.  father  and 
my  mother.  My  father  gave  his  life  in  this  cause,  having  laid  it 
down  in  the  mission  field,  and  I  feel  that  he  will  wear  a  martyr's 
crown.  I  have  it  in  my  heart  to  pray  that  I  may  conduct  myself  in 
such  a  way  that  I  may  meet  him,  with  some  degree  of  satisfaction 
upon  his  part.  May  the  Lord  bless  us,  my  brethren  and  my  sisters,  from 
President  Grant  down  to  the  last  and  least  in  the  Church,  is  my 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  WINSLOW  FARR  SMITH 

{Former  President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission) 

Last  Sunday  throughout  the  world  was  celebrated  the  Easter 
day.  A  prominent  divine  of  our  city,  in  his  service,  laid  emphasis,  I 
am  told,  on  the  fact  that  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  the  prophets  of 
old  were  mere  human  beings,  as  we  are,  possessed  of  no  further  aid 
than  human  aid  in  performing  their  work.  In  short  that  Christ  was 
man — not  God.  As  I  heard  this  report,  there  came  to  my  mind  the 
words  of  Peter  to  the  Savior,  when  he  said  to  him:  "Whom  say  ye 
that  I  am?"  And  Peter  replied:  "Thou  art  the  Christ  the  Son  of  the 
Living  God.''  It  occurred  to  me  that  among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  as 
among  no  other  people  in  the  world,  positive  knowledge  exists.  While 
we  are  few  in  number,  we  are  powerful  and  mighty  in  influence  for 
good,  because  in  the  heart  of  every  one  of  the  members  in  the  Church 
who  is  doing  his  duty,  there  is  that  positive  knowledge  that  God 


ELDER  WIN  SLOW  FARR  SMITH 


13 


lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  in  this  day  and  age  man  was 
chosen  for  a  great  work,  and  unto  him  was  given  the  Priesthood  of 
God.  Through  the  work  of  this  priesthood,  and  because  of  its  influ- 
ence, every  man  and  every  woman,  yea,  every  boy  and  every  girl  in  the 
Church,  who  is  doing  his  part,  should  the  question  be  put  to  him : 
"Whom  say  ye  that  Jesus  Christ  is?"  can  answer,  "He  is  the  Christ, 
the  Son  of  the  Living  God."  I  rejoice  in  the  blessing  that  has  been 
mine  to  labor  in  the  mission  field,  to  become  intimately  and  closely  as- 
sociated with  between  four  hundred  and  five  hundred  young  men  and 
young  women  of  Zion,  boys  and  girls  in  many  instances,  who  have 
accepted  the  call  and  gone  into  the  field  and  done  the  best  they  could 
to  carry  on  the  great  work  that  is  entrusted  to  us  as  a  people.  I  have 
marveled  at  their  wonderful  growth.  In  many  instances  they  have 
come  into  the  field  ignorant  of  the  ways  of  the  world,  ignorant  of 
the  basic  principles  of  the  gospel,  unschooled  in  the  learning  of  the 
world ;  yet  possessing  a  faith,  and  a  determination  that  they  would  put 
the  best  they  had  into  that  which  they  were  called  to  do.  This  faith 
has  spurred  them  on,  and  through  application,  through  diligence, 
through  humility,  through  prayer,  they  have  come  to  know  beyond  the 
shadow  of  a  doubt  that  the  gospel  is  true. 

I  am  reminded  that  on  one  occasion  a  young  man  who  had  been 
in  the  field  a  number  of  months  s'ood  before  the  group  of  mission- 
aries in  one  of  our  little  council  mee'ings  and  said:  "Would  that  I 
could  say  as  you  brethren  have  said,  that  I  know  that  the  gospel  is  true. 
I  believe  it  is  true,  I  accept  it,  and  I  am  glad  to  be  here  doing  what 
I  can  for  its  furtherance,  I  have  the  means  and  I  want  the  privilege 
of  staying  in  the  field  and  working  until  I  can  say,  as  these  brethren 
have  said,  that  I  know  the  gospel  is  true.  Not  many  months  after 
that,  in  one  of  our  council  meetings,  this  same  young  man  stood  up 
and  bore  a  most  fervent  testimony.  He  declared  that  he  knew  that 
it  was  true,  and  there  was  real,  genuine,  sincere  conviction  in  the  ring 
of  his  voice,  and  he  proved  with  his  works,  his  diligent  application, 
with  his  untiring  efforts  to  do  all  that  was  asked  of  him,  that  it  was 
true ;  and  when  the  time  came  for  his  release  he  said  to  me :  "Would 
to  God  that  I  oould  spend  my  life  in  the  wonderful  influence  of  this 
mission." 

Brothers  and  s'sters,  we  can  all  have  that  spirit  if  we  will ;  we 
can  all  know  beyond  the  shadow  of  a  doubt,  if  we  will.  There  is  a 
positive  rule,  laid  down  by  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  recorded  by  John, 
couched  in  these  words :  "If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know 
the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself." 
If  we  will  do  his  will,  this  promise  of  the  Lord  unto  us  will  be  kept ; 
and  in  this  age  of  skepticism,  when  doubt  fills  the  earth,  when  men 
in  high  positions,  many  of  them  professed  teachers  of  religion,  express 
doubt  as  to  the  divinity  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  this  people,  under 
the  guidance  of  the  Priesthood  of  Alrmghty  God,  will  be  immune 
to  such  influences,  yea,  they  will  be  a  testimony  to  the  world  that 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


they  know  that  God  lives.  I  am  grateful  that  we  live  in  this  day.  I 
thank  God  for  the  vicissitudes  that  have  come  to  this  people,  for 
through  them  has  been  born  faith,  sterling  faith,  genuine  faith  in 
God  and  his  promises ;  and  if  we  remain  true,  our  testimonies  will 
grow.  We  will  be  loyal  to  our  bishops,  loyal  to  our  stake  officers, 
and  we  will  recognize  our  president  and  his  associates>  the  men  at  the 
head  of  this  Church,  as  men  of  God.  Their  counsel  and  their  advice 
we  will  heed.  I  pray  that  we  may  have  the  strength  to  do  this,  and 
that  we  do  all  we  can  to  support  our  boys  and  our  girls  in  the  mission 
fields.  They  know  the  troubles  at  home;  they  know  the  perils  through 
which  we  are  passing  as  a  people;  but  they  need  our  encouragement. 
Let  the  discouragements  in  the  home  and  the  hardships  be  kept  from 
them,  Send  them  happiness  and  encouragement  to  the  utmost,  that  they 
may  have  the  fire  of  the  spirit  of  the  gospel  in  their  hearts,  and  that 
the  testimonies  that  are  growing  and  being  built  up  in  their  lives  may  be 
strengthened.  I  thank  God  for  the  boys  and  girls,  and  for  our  mis- 
sionary system.  May  we,  to  a  man,  be  back  of  it,  giving  them  the 
best  that  we  have,  doing  the  will  of  the  Father,  keeping  his  command- 
ments, and  then  we  can  say  undoubtingly,  unflinchingly,  unhesitatingly, 
when  the  question  comes  to  us,  that  we  know  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  indeed  his  Prophet,  raised  up  for  this  great  work,  and  that  the 
Priesthood  of  God  conferred  upon  him  has  come  down  through  a 
noble  succession  of  leaders  and  today  the  man  who  stands  at  our  head 
is  there  because  God  wants  him  there,  and  he  is  deserving  of  our 
support.  May  the  Lord  give  us  this  strength,  this  faith,  and  this 
testimony,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  ROY  A.  WELKER 

(Second  Counselor  in  the  Presidency  of  the  Bear  Lake  Stake  of  Zion) 

I.  think,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  is  one  of  the  most 
wonderful  institutions  in  all  the  world.  I  have  been  impressed,  ever 
since  I  was  a  boy,  with  the  fact  that  the  majority  of  the  people  of  the 
world  have  been  followers  of  leaders.  I  have  been  impressed,  as  a 
young  student,  with  the  life  and  influence  of  the  great  Confucius, 
Socrates,  Plato  and  many  of  the  modern  wonderful  scholars.  I  always 
had  a  longing  desire  to  understand  their  marvelous  principles  and 
methods  and  systems  of  thought.  I  wanted  to  be  on  the  inside,  so  to 
speak,  of  all  that  they  knew,  and  all  that  they  did,  and  strove  to 
find  out  their  ways.  Quite  early  in  life  a  call  to  a  mission  came 
to  me.  I  saw  an  opportunity  in  that  to  gain  experience.  I  struggled 
for  a  testimony.  It  came;  and  then  the  dream  that  I  had  of  a  stu- 
dent's life  was  very  much  upset.  1  was  impressed  with  the  character 
of  Joseph  Smith,  of  Rrigham  Young,  and  of  the  other  presidents  and 
leaders  of  this  Church.    But  I  immediately  noticed  a  wonderful  dif- 


ELDER  ROY  A.  WELKER 


15 


ference  between  them  and  the  so-called  scholars  of  the  world.  It 
soon  dawned  upon  me  that  there  was  a  vast  difference  between  them 
and  the  other  men  of  the  world.  The  first  class  had  been  led  and  di- 
rected, apparently,  by  their  own  powers.  They  had  taken  credit  unto 
themselves  for  that  which  they  had  unfolded  for  their  followers.  I 
noticed  in  the  life  of  President  Joseph  Smith,  our  Prophet,  God's  in- 
spired servant  in  the  world,  a  disposition  not  to  take  credit  unto  him- 
self, but  to  give  credit  to  that  God  with  whom  he  said  he  had  con- 
versed— not  that  indescribable  God  that  so  much  puzzles  the  world 
today.  So  I  began  to  give  my  allegiance  to  him  as  a  leader,  and  to  try 
to  follow  the  teachings  that  he  had  given  to  the  world  through  rev- 
elation from  God.  My  testimony  soon  grew,  and  was  strengthened, 
and  I  learned  that  we,  in  this  world,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  are 
children,  not  of  the  men  of  the  earth,  but  that  we  are  children  of  God. 
All  that  I  have,  all  that  I  ever  hope  to  be,  I  trust  will  be  given  as 
service  to  this  great  cause  of  the  Latter-day  work  which  I  know  is  the 
work  of  God,  not  that  invisible,  incomprehensible  God,  such  as  is 
taught  in  the  world,  but  he  who  was  revealed  to  Joseph  Smith  in 
person,  who  has  been  revealed  to  many  of  our  leaders,  and  whom  we 
know  by  testimony,  as  we  have  known,  if  our  hearts  have  been  at- 
tuned to  it. 

It  was  my  good  privilege  while  upon  my  mission  to  Germany  to 
have  President  Grant  visit  us,  and  also  my  pleasurable  task  to  trans- 
late some  of  his  sermons  into  the  German  language.  I  know  with 
what  power  and  authority  he  spoke,  and  how  the  people  were  con- 
vinced that  he  was  indeed  a  servant  of  the  living  God,  and  my  testimony 
was  wonderfully  strengthened  upon  those  occasions.  I  came  to  know, 
not  by  reason,  not  by  logic,  not  by  the  philosophies  of  man,  that 
President  Grant  was  a  servant  of  God,  but  by  that  spirit  and  that 
testimony  which  surpasses  all  that  method  of  arrival  at  knowledge. 
I  am  happy  to  be  numbered  with  the  Saints  of  God,  to  claimi  as  such 
men  President  Grant  and  his  counselors,  the  quorum  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles  and  all  the  others  constituted  authorities  of  the  Church  as 
our  right  leaders,  inspired  and  appointed  by  God  in  those  wonder- 
ful positions. 

May  the  work  of  our  Father  progress,  may  we  be  inspired  with 
the  thought  and  the  knowledge  constantly  that  amongst  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  the  power  of  God,  the  only  authority  to  speak  in  the 
name  of  God  in  the  earth.  The  Priesthood  of  the  Almighty  is  here 
in  our  midst,  although  others  may  claim  it;  yet  they  cannot  be  true, 
for  the  Lord  said,  when  he  visited  Joesph  Smith :  "They  are 
all  wrong."  We  have  no  quarrel  with  our  brethren  of  the  world,  but 
we  do  differ  with  (them  in  their  'opinons  as  to  authority.  They 
can  never  come  to  a  proper  knowledge  of  God  except  through  the 
channels  of  the  Priesthood  or  the  authority  of  his  servants  whom  he 
has  appointed. 

May  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  be  upon  this  conference  during  its 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


various  sessions.  May  those  who  preside  have  a  rich  outpouring  of 
God's  Spirit  with  them.  May  we  all  know,  even  those  who  perhaps 
are  not  of  our  faith,  down  deep  in  their  hearts,  that  the  prophets  of 
God  live,  and  that  they  are  here  in  our  midst.  May  our  testimonies 
grow  and  increase.  May  we  follow  the  instructions  that  are  given, 
for  in  them  is  safety.  May  we  through  our  faithful  lives,  in  the  end, 
be  saved  in  God's  kingdom,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  PETER  M.  HANSON 

(President  of  the  Bear  River  Stake  of  Zion) 

My  prethren  and  sisters:  It  is  with  a  spirit  of  humility  that  I 
stand  before  you  here  this  morning,  in  the  opening  session  of  our 
general  conference.  I  feel  very  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for 
the  opportunity  I  have  of  being  a  member  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  fully  in  harmony  with  the  remarks  of  our 
President  this  morning.  I  have  witnessed  the  humiliation  of  some  of 
our  brethren  who  are  not  able  to  meet  their  obligations,  that  they  have 
contracted,  while  wq  had  "flush"  times.  I  am  sure,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  if  we  had  heeded-  as  our  President  said  this  morning,  the  coun- 
sel that  we  received  from  the  Prophet  Joseph1  F.  Smith,  here,  a  num- 
ber of  years  ago,  and  which  has  been  spoken  in  our  conferences  from 
time  to  time,  that  we  would  have  been  much  better  off  financially  as 
a  people.  I  have  tried,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  obey  this  counsel, 
and  today  I  do  not  owe  a  man  a  dollar,  and  I  am  mighty  thankful  for 
this. 

I  am  reminded  now  that  I  left  my  native  land  fifty-two  years  ago, 
as  a  boy  then  sixteen  years  of  age.  I  did  not  have  a  dollar.  I  in- 
terceded with  an  uncle  of  mine  who  paid  my  immigration  to  this 
land,  and  when  T  landed  in  Ogden  I  was  one  hundred  and  ten 
dollars  in  debt.  It  took  me  two  years  to  liquidate  that  debt — two  years 
of  hard  labor,  after  I  came  here.  But  that  was  the  first  thing  I  did 
after  I  arrived  here  in  Utah.  My  relatives  in  the  old  country  rather 
spurned  me  when  I  joined  this  unpopular  Church.  They  thought,  of 
course,  that  I  did  wrong.  But  when  I  think  of  it,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  of  the  blessings  I  have  enjoyed  since  I  came  to  this  land, 
arriving  here  as  I  did  with  not  a  penny ;  and  today,  though  I  have 
many  wealthy  relatives  in  the  old  country,  today  perhaps  I  could 
buy  out  some  of  them.  That  is  the  condition  ;  that  is  a  part  of  the 
blessings,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  have  come  to  me  through 
obedience  to  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  feel  this  morning, 
as  the  brethren  have  said,  to  give  my  time  and  my  talents,  and  all  that 
I  have  to  this  great  cause  for  I  owe  it  all  to  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  I  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Lord  will  inspire 
us,  that  we  may  do  right,  keep  his  commandments,  live  according  to 


ELDER  PETER  M.  HANSON 


17 


the  light  that  we  have  received,  and  be  in  harmony  with  his  servants 
who  preside  over  us.  I  feel  that  we  are  greatly  blessed  when  the 
general  authorities  come  into  our  stake  of  Zion.  We  have  been  favored 
always  in  this  respect  at  our  quarterly  conferences,  with  a  visit  from  the 
general  authorities  of  the  Church,  which  we  appreciate,  brethren  and 
sisters.  I  feel  that  I  am  in  harmony  with  the  servants  of  the  Lord, 
who  preside  over  us,  and  I  pray  that  the  Lord  may  bless  us,  that  we 
may  labor  in  love  and  in  harmony  and  enjoy  the  blessings  that  we 
receive  through  the  gospel,  which  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  McGREGOR 

{President  of  the  Beaver  Stake  of  Zion) 

I  am  reminded  of  a  story  of  an  Irishman  who  went  into  a  drug- 
store to  get  some  medicine.  He  asked  the  price.  The  druggist  told 
him  that  it  was  so  much  for  the  medicine,  and  so  much  for  the  bottle 
and  the  label.  He  hesitated :  "Well,"  he  said,  "hurry  up  and  put  a  price 
on  the  cork,  and  let  us  know  the  worst."  I  am  very  thankful  that 
Beaver  comes  toward  the  beginning  of  the  alphabet  so  that  the  worst 
will  soon  be  over. 

I  was  grateful,  in  listening  to  the  remarks  of  President  Grant  this 
morning,  that  I  was  a  Latter-day  Saint,  that  my  spirit  had  been  held 
in  reserve  until  this  latter  day,  when  I  had  been  permitted  to  come 
upon  the  earth,  when  the  gospel  has  been  restored,  and  to  think  that 
I  am  affiliated  with  a  people  who  enjoy  so  many  bessings.  We  have 
been  told  that  the  death  rate  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  eight 
and  three-tenths  per  thousand.  I  believe  that  the  death  rate  in  the 
United  States  is  nearly  double  that.  As  T  recall,  it  was  nearly  double 
that  last  year;  and  educated  people  are  sitting  up  and  taking  notice. 
They  think  there  must  be  some  cause  for  this  condition.  We  have 
a  very  high  birth  rate.  I  did  not  quiet  understand  this  morning 
whether  it  was  thirty-six  per  thousand ;  I  believe  that  is  what  it  was. 
How  much  higher  it  is  than  the  average  in  the  United  States.  I  think 
it  was  twenty-two  or  twenty-three  last  year.  Our  birth  rate  is  far 
ahead  of  that  of  the  rest  of  the  United  States,  and  our  death  rate  is  far 
below.  We  know  why  this  is.  Through  obedience  to  the  law  and 
ordinances  of  the  gospel,  the  Lord  is  blessing  his  people,  and  he  will 
continue  to  bless  us.  The  way  of  the  transgressor  is  hard,  but  we 
always  receive  blessings  both  in  this  life  and  in  the  life  to  come,  by 
obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  that  He  has  laid  down  for  the 
governing  of  his  children. 

I  was  thinking  this  morning  how  this  country  had  been  changed 
since  the  advent  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  was  thankful  in  my 
heart  that,  when  the  Pioneers  were  met  at  Green  River  by  Samuel 
Brannan  and  he  tried  to  get  them  to  go  on  to  California,  they 


18 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


refused  to  go,  that  they  settled  in  this  forsaken  country.  It  was  a 
forsaken  country,  and  forbidding  at  that  time;  but  the  Lord  knew 
what  he  was  doing,  and  his  servants  were  susceptible  to  the  promptings 
and  influence  of  his  Spirit,  and  they  knew  what  to  do.  President 
Brigham  Young  told  them,  when  they  were  anxious  to  go  to  California, 
that  if  they  would  remain  here,  the  Lord  would  temper  the  climate, 
and  he  has  done  so.  One  of  our  elderly  brothers,  Brother  White  of 
Beaver,  was  telling  me  yesterday,  as  we  were  riding  up,  about  the  con- 
ditions that  obtained  in  that  town  in  the  early  days.  In  the  first  place, 
they  thought  it  was  so  cold  that  they  could  only  dairy  a  little,  but  Pres- 
ident Young  told  them  that  if  they  would  plant  the  hardier  grains, 
wheat,  oats,  and  grains  of  that  kind,  these  would  grow.  They 
did  .so.  They  made  a  dam  in  the  Beaver  river  and  turned  all  the  water 
upon  thirty  acres ;  but  they  continued,  and  now  they  are  watering  with 
(he  Beaver  river  and  its  tributaries  thirty-nine  thousand  acres,  and 
they  could  water  a  great  deal  more  if  it  were  economically  used.  They 
are  now  raising  plenty  of  fruit,  apples,  pears  and  fruits  of  that  kind, 
and  we  have  been  told  just  recently  by  Mr.  Peet,  a  man  working  for 
the  railroad  company,  that  it  is  the  best  place  in  the  world,  that  he 
knows  of,  to  raise  celery.  We  are  expecting  to  get  some  Hollanders 
in  to  show  us  how,  this  spring.  We  hope  lo  raise  other  things  besides 
those  that  we  are  raising  at  the  present  time. 

I  know  that  the  Lord  has  blessed  his  people  here  in  the  valleys  of 
the  mountains,  and  what  is  said  of  Beaver  could  be  said,  practically, 
of  most  all  the  towns  in  our  fair  state.  The  Lord  is  overruling  affairs 
for  our  good,  as  he  has  done  from  the  beginning.  I  have  often  when 
a  small  boy,  heard  it  stated  that  ship  captains  wanted  our  people  on 
board.  It  was  a  well-known  fact  that  the  vessels  did  not  go  down 
when  "Mormon"  immigrants  were  on  board,  and  they  were  out  bidding 
for  those  immigrants  to  go  in  their  vessels.  I  recall  hearing  Brother 
Brimhall  tell  a  story,  during  the  world  war,  as  I  remember  it,  that  a 
ship  had  been  torpedoed.  They  were  getting  the  women  and  the 
children  off  on  the  life  boats.  Four  "Mormon"  boys  stood  by  the 
railing  looking  over,  and  the  captain  came  up  to  them  and  told  them, 
"You  go  on  this  boat,  and  you  on  the  other."  And  he  assigned  the 
four  boys  to  as  many  different  life  boats.  Someone  spoke  up  to  the 
captain  and  said:  "Don't  you  know  that  these  boys  are  'Mormons'?" 
"Yes,"  he  said:  "I  know  it,  and  that  is  the  reason  1  am  assigning  them 
to  those  life  boats,  because  'Mormons'  don't  sink."  Brother  Brimhall 
said  he  did  no!  want  to  tell  that  story  until  he  knew  absolutely  that  it 
was  true.  He  wrote  and  got  the  information,  and  then  he  felt  free 
in  telling  it. 

I  know  that  the  Lord  watches  over  his  people.  I  recall  hearing 
my  father  tell  when  he  was  returning  from  a  mission  to  Europe  that 
a  number  of  our  elders  were  on  their  way  home.  They  were  very  anx- 
ious, as  the  elders  usually  are,  to  get  home,  but  when  they  came  to  Cedar 
Rapids,  Iowa,  they  went  to  get  their  lunch  baskets  replenished.  You 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  McGREGOR 


19 


know  "Mormon"  elders  do  not  patronize  the  diner,  as  a  rule,  because 
they  haven't  money  enough.  When  they  returned  to  the  depot  the  train 
was  just  pulling  out,  and  they  missed  it.  They  were  very  much 
disappointed,  so  anxious  were  they  to  get  home,  and  they  had  missed 
their  train.  But  there  was  nothing  for  them  to  do  but  to  wait  for 
the  next  train,  wlrch  they  did.  As  they  came  along  a  few  miles 
out  there  was  depression  and  a  swale,  and  the  train  that  they  had  been 
traveling  on,  and  on  which  they  should  have  continued,  had  collided, 
head  on  with  another  train,  and  the  cars  were  piled  up  thirty  feet 
high  on  either  s;de  of  the  track.  It  was  no  accident  that  they  missed  the 
train.    The  Lord  had  an  overruling  providence. 

So  many  instances  could  be  told.  I  am  reminded  now  of  the  con- 
ditions that  obtained  in  Galveston  when  our  elders  were  there  at  that 
great  catastrophe,  the  sea  heaving  itself  beyond  its  bounds,  sweeping 
over  the  city,  destroying  so  many  hundreds  of  people  there,  and  so  much 
property.  Our  elders  were  housed  in  a  small  two-story  frame  building 
that  was  left  intact  in  that  part  of  the  city — a  wonderful  manifesation 
of  the  overruling  providence  of.  our  heavenly  Father ;  and  in  the 
California  disaster,  in  San  Francisco,  not  one  of  them  was  hurt.  We 
have  been  told  that  few  have  been  injured  in  traveling  to  and  from 
missions,  and  no  vessels  have  gone  down  carrying  brethren  bound 
for  Zion.  We  know  how  in  the  Zion's  camp  movement,  when  they 
were  going  up  there,  they  were  so  anxious  to  reach  Clay  county,  and 
President  Woodruff  has  told  us  in  his  journal  that  they  had  so  many 
difficulties  to  contend  with.  Wagon  wheels  ran  off,  wagon  tongues 
were  broken,  and  there  was  this,  that  and  the  other  to  delay  them, 
so  that  they  were  compelled  to  pitch  their  tents  between  Big  and 
Little  fishing  rivers.  Soon  after  they  had  made  their  camp,  five  men 
rode  in  and  told  them  that  they  would  see  hell  before  morning,  and 
just  then  a  little  cloud  began  to  unroll.  It  looked  about  as  big,  Brother 
Woodruff  said,  as  a  man's  hand :  it  began  to  unroll,  and  in  a  few 
minutes  the  whole  sky  was  inky  black.  A  terrible  storm  came  up.  As 
the  Prophet  came  into  the  schoolhouse,  where  they  were  for  shelter, 
and  shook  the  rain  from  his  hat  and  coat,  he  said :  "God  is  in  this 
storm,"  and  the  enemy  told  them,  afterwards,  that  in  forty  minutes 
Little  Fishing  River  rose  forty  feet.  You  will  all  remember  how  the 
efforts  of  the  enemy  were  thwarted.  There  were  those  in  Ray  and  in 
Clay  countes  and  in  Jackson  county  who  were  uniting  together  to 
exterminate  this  little  band  of  "Mormons,"  but  the  Lord  intervened, 
and  their  plans  were  not  permitted  to  mature.  The  next  day  Colonel 
Sconce,  with  some  of  his  associates,  came  into  the  camp  and  he  wanted 
to  see  and  talk  with  the  people,  a  people  whom  God  had  defended  and 
whose  battles  he  had  fought.  After  talking  with  the  Prophet  and 
listening  to  a  history  of  the  people  and  their  sufferings,  tears  came  into 
their  eyes,  and  they  promised  to  go  back  and  do  all  that  they  could  in 
order  to  allay  the  prejudice  which  existed  against  the  "Mormon"  people, 
which,  be  it  said  to  their  credit,  they  did. 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  believe  my  ten  minutes  are  up.  I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  with  his  Spirit,  that  we  may  be  fed  the  bread  of  life, 
in  this  conference,  and  go  forth  better  prepared  to  perform  our  duties 
in  this  Church,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  W.  FUNK 

[President  of  the  Benson  Stake  of  Zion) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  because  I  have  made  it  a  rule  and 
practice  of  my  life  to  respond  to  the  calls  that  have  been  made  of  me 
that  I  stand  before  yon  this  morning,  for  I  assure  you  that  I  feel 
very  weak  and  incapable,  in  a  measure,  of  filling  this  position  ex- 
cept that  it  be  to  comply  with  the  call  that  has  been  made  of  me.  I 
rejoice  in  the  spirit  of  this  conference.  I  had  not  felt,  I  believe,  before, 
as  I  have  felt  this  morning,  that  there  is  safety  in  following  counsel. 
I  had  not  realized  to  the  same  extent  that  I  do  now,  the  closeness  of 
temporal  and  spiritual  things  in  the  welfare  and  well-being  of  the  peo- 
ple of  the  Church.  It  has  been  said  by  some  that  the  "Mormon" 
people  lay  too  much  stress  upon  the  temporal  things  of  life,  that 
they  are  not  spiritual  enough  in  their  teachings;  but,  as  the  President 
said  this  morning,  we  know  the  consequences  that  have  come  to  those 
who  have  disregarded  the  counsels  of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  in 
the  matter  of  getting  out  of  debt,  and  keeping  out  of  debt.  Because 
of  their  failure  to  comply,  disaster  has  come  to  them,  and  they  now 
find  it  necessary,  in  many  cases,  to'  abandon  their  property  and  to  leave 
for  new  fields,  to^  take  their  families  into  new  environments  and  into 
environments  which  may  be  detrimental  to  their  spiritual  growth  and 
advancement,  that  may  be  conducive  to  drawing  therm  away  from  the 
Church  and  its  teachings.  The  President  did  not  say  so,  and  I  do 
not  say  it,  but  I  wondered  if  this  is  not  just  as  good  a  time  to  put 
into  effect  today  that  counsel  which  was  given  several  years  ago,  as 
it  was  then.  No  prophecy  has  been  made,  I  think,  from  this  stand 
to  the  effect  that  we  are  standing  today  in  perilous  times  financially. 
No  one  has  predicted  that  this  wave  of  temporary  prosperity  shall 
continue — perhaps  I  should  not  say  "temporary,"  because  I  hope  it  is 
not  temporary,  but  the  s'gns  of  the  times  would  indicate,  I  think,  that 
we  are  at  least  in  a  state  of  uncertainty,  and  while  the  financial  clouds 
are  lifting  today,  as  they  have  been  for  several  months — I  have  failed 
to  find  anyone  who  is  keeping  abreast  of  the  times  financially,  to  predict 
safety  beyond  the  next  few  months,  and  there  is  always  the  proviso 
that  for  the  next  two  or  three,  and  some  will  say  as  far  as  six, 
months,  there  is  apparent  safety  in  matters  of  finance,  but  beyond 
that,  no  prediction  is  made.  It  occurs  to  me.  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  today  is  just  as  good  a  time  to  keep  out  of  debt,  to  strive  to  gel 
out  of  debt,  those  of  us  who  are  in  debt,  as  was  the  day  when  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith  counseled  it,  and  when  other  leaders  of  the  Church 


ELDER  JAMES  W.  FUNK 


21 


have  counseled  it,  because,  as  I  recall,  they  have  always  given  ad- 
vice of  that  kind.  It  occurs  to  me,  too,  that  one  of  the  first  duties  that 
we  owe,  and  we  should  not  forget  it,  is  the  duty  that  we  owe  to  the 
Lord :  Pay  your  tithing-,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  time  and  the  sea- 
son thereof,  and  that  does  not  mean,  to  us  who  live  in  agricultural 
sections  of  the  country,  to  pay  our  tithing  in  December,  but  it  means 
to  pay  it  every  month  of  the  year,  as  means  come  into  our  hands ; 
and  then  at  the  end  of  the  year  we  will  not  be  owing  the  Lord  tithing 
that  we  should  have  been  paying  at  the  beginning  of  the  year  and 
throughout  the  months  thereof. 

There  is  safety  in  counsel.  It  has  been  evidenced  on  every  hand. 
That  brother  and  that  sister  who  follow  the  counsel  of  those  who  are 
placed  in  authority  to  lead  us  and  guide  us,  will  not  go  far  wrong, 
but  will  be  found  in  every  crisis  safe,  standing  not  only  safe  as  to 
themselves,  but  in  a  position  to  help  and  to  assist  those  with  whom 
they  come  in  contact.  I  have  a  sincere  testimony  in  the  divinity  of 
this  work.  I  know  that  it  is  the  work  of  God;  I  know  that  those 
who  are  in  charge  of  the  work  at  this  present  time  are  holding  their 
positions  because  of  their  call  from  the  Lord.  They  are  answering 
the  call  that  has  come  to  them,  and  from  my  personal  contact  with 
these  men,  as  it  is  my  privilege,  my  very  highly  esteemed  privilege, 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  come  in  contact  with  them  occasionally,  I 
testify  to  you  who  are  not  so  favorably  situated  as  to  come  in  per- 
sonal and  intimate  contact  with  them,  that  they  are  men  of  God, 
sincere  in  their  desires  to  lead  the  people  in  the  way  that  God  would 
have  themi  to  go1,  sincere  in  their  teachings  and  in  their  living,  with 
hearts  full  of  prayer  for  the  welfare  of  the  people  of  this  dispensation, 
and  I  am  sure  that  God  is  inspiring  them,  leading  them,  that  they 
may  in  turn  inspire  and  lead  us.  May  God  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints 
and  help  us  at  all  times  to  do  his  will,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

(President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission) 

Brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a  good  thing  to  live  in  the  present.  The 
Apostle  Paul  said :  "But  this  one  thing  I  do,  forgetting  those  things 
which  are  behind,  and  reaching  forth  unto  those  things  which  are 
before,  I  press  towards  the  mark,  for  the  prize  of  the  high  calling 
of  God  in  Christ  Jesus."  There  was  a  people  in  days  of  old  who 
garnished  the  tombs  of  the  dead  prophets  but  who  persecuted,  stoned 
and  put  to  death  the  living  prophets.  I  believe  that  if  a  man  is  in 
opposition  to  the  President  of  the  Chruch  today,  such  a  man  would 
have  been  found  in  opposition  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  also 
believe  that  if  there  is  a  disloyal  American  in  this  country  today  he 


22 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


would  have  been  disloyal  had  he  lived  in  (he  days  of  George  Wash- 
ington. 

In  a  conversation  with  a  prominent  minister,  two  or  three  years 
ago — he  was  a  fine  gentleman  I  believe,  a  good  man — we  discussed 
the  great  World  War,  and  I  said  to  him,:  "Do  you  not  think  that 
[his  great  World  War  foreshadows  some  great  event,  such  as  the 
glorious  second  coming  of  the  Son  of  God,  to  judge  the  people  and 
to  inaugurate  the  blessed  millennium?" 

The  minister  replied :  "I  think  so  now ;  but  if  a  man  had  told  us, 
eight  years  ago,  that  this  World  War  would  have  fallen  upon  the 
world  with  all  its  horror,  we  would  have  laughed  him  to  scorn  and  then 
crucified  him." 

I  said :  "Doctor,  men  did  crucify  such  a  man.  Joseph  Smith,  the 
Prophet  of  God,  foretold  the  great  Civil  War ;  he  likewise  predicted 
by  the  gift  and  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  the  World  War 
would  come  to  vex  the  nations.  He  died  a  martyr  for  the  testimony 
of  Jesus  Christ." 

The  mission  of  this  Chruch  is  to  preach  the  gospel,  to  cry  re- 
pentance unto  a  crooked  and  perverse  generation,  and  in  this  dispensa- 
tion the  Almighty  has  declared  that  the  whole  world  is  ripening  in 
iniquity,  and  it  must  needs  be  that  the  children  of  men  be  stirred 
up  unto  repentance.  We  have  proved  that  God  was  as  he  always  has 
been,  as  he  always  will  be,  right,  for  he  knows  what  is  in  man.  He 
said:  "That  by  reason  of  transgression  cometh  the  fall;  which  fall 
bringeth  death ;  and  inasmuch  as  we  were  born  into  the  world  by  water, 
and  blood  and  the  spirit  which  I  have  made  and  so  became  of  dust 
a  living  soul,  even  so  ye  must  be  born  again  into  the  kingdom  of 
heaven,  of  water  and  of  the  Spirit  and  be  cleansed  by  blood  even  the 
blood  of  mine  Only  Begotten  Son,  that  ye  may  be  sanctified  from  all 
sin,  and  enjoy  the  words  of  eternal  life  in  this  world  and  eternal 
life  in  the  world  to  come,  even  immortal  glory.  For  by  water  ye  keep 
the  commandment;  by  the  Spirit  ye  are  justif'ed,  and  by  the  blood  ye 
are  sanctified.  *  *  *  This  is  the  plan  of  salvation,  unto  all  men, 
*  *  *  and  thus  may  all  become  my  sons."  The  Apostle  John  said 
that  every  man  that  hath  this  hope  in  him,  purifieth  himself  even  as  he, 
God,  is  pure.  What  hope?  He  tells  us:  "Beloved,  now  are  we, 
the  sons  of  God."  In  this  glorious  hope  we  do  purify  ourselves. 
But  the  pernicious,  the  groveling,  theory  which  teaches,  or  seeks  to  teach 
that  we  came  from  a  lower  order  of  creation,  that  we  came,  from 
low  decree,  does  not  purify.  But  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  does 
purify  us,  for  through  it  we  know  that  we  are  the  sons  of  God,  that 
our  heavenly  Father  is  the  Father  of  our  spirits. 

I  bear  my  humble  testimony  that  the  Gospel  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation,  "I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Christ,"  said  Paul, 
"for  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation."  Brethren  and  sisters,  the 
Latter-day  Saints  are  not  only  not  ashamed  of  the  gospel,  but  are  not 
ashamed  of  its  author,  even  Jesus  Christ,  for  we  testify  that  he  is  the 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


23 


Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  the  Savior  of  mankind,  the 
author  of  eternal  salvation ;  and  in  this  hope  we  will  abide  and  progress 
to  eternal  life.  This  testimony  is  the  strength  of  this  Church,  and 
may  we  ever  abide  in  it  is  my  humble  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

i 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

While  Joseph  Smith  and  Sidney  Rigdon  were  engaged  in  trans- 
lating the  Scriptures,  they  said : 

"And  while  we  meditated  upon  these  things,"  [the  things  they  refer  to  were 
in  regard  to  the  resurrection]  "The  Lord  touched  the  eyes  of  our  understandings 
and  they  were  opened,  and  the  glory  of  the  Lord  shone  round  about, 

"And  we  beheld  the  glory  of  the  Son,  on  the  right  hand  of  the  Father, 
and  received  of  his  fulness ; 

"And  saw  the  holy  angels,  and  them  who  are  sanctified  before  his 
throne,  worshiping  God  and  the  Lamb,  who  worship  him  forever  and  ever. 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him,  this 
is  the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him:  That  he  lives! 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God ;  and  wc  heard  the 
voice  bearing  record  that  lie  is  the  Only  Regotten  of  the  Father — 

"That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were 
created,  and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto  God." 

Thank  the  Lord  that  Joseph  Smith  saw  and  conversed  with  the 
Redeemer,  that  the  Redeemer  of  the  world  was  introduced  to  him  by 
God  our  Father.  Thank  the  Lord  that  somebody  else,  in  addition  to 
Joseph  Smith,  has  left  us  his  testimony  that  Jesus  is  the  Son  of  God, 
and  that  the  voice  from  heaven  bore  record.  Thank  the  Lord  for  the 
gospel. 

"And  this  is  the  gospel,  the  glad  tidings,  which  the  voice  out  of  the 
heavens  bore  record  unto  us — 

"That  he  came  into  the  world,  even  Jesus,  to  be  crucified  for  the  world, 
and  to  bear  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  to  sanctify  the  world,  and  to  cleanse 
it   from  all  unrighteousness ; 

"That  through  him  all  might  be  saved  whom  the  Father  had  put  into  his 
power  and  made  by  him ." 

These  passages  came  to  my  mind  as  I  was  listening  to  the  re- 
marks of  Brother  Winslow  Farr  Smith.  I  want  lo  read  just  a  few 
words  for  the  benefit  of  all  Latter-day  Saints,  from  the  first  section 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

"Search  these  commandments,  for  they  are  true  and  faithful,  and  the 
prophecies  which  are  in  them  shall  all  be  fulfilled. 

"What  I  the  Lord  have  spoken,  I  have  spoken,  and  I  excuse  not  myself; 
and  though  the  heavens  and  the  earth  pass  away,  my  word  shall  not  pass 
away,  but  shall  all  be  fulfilled,  whether  by  mine  own  voice  or  by  the  voice 
of  my  servants,  it  is  the  same. 

"For  behold,  and  lo,  the  Lord  is  God,  and  the  Spirit  beareth  record,  and 
the  record  is  true,  and  the  truth  abideth  forever  and  ever." 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "High  on  the  mountain  top." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Lewis  R.  Anderson,  presi- 
dent of  the  Manti  Temple  and  former  president  of  the  South  Sanpete 
stake. 

The  Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

The  afternoon  meeting  was  opened  at  2  o'clock  by  President  Heber 
J.  Grant  who  announced  that  the  choir  and  congregation  would  sing, 
"We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet." 

After1  singing,  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph  R.  Shepherd, 
president  of  the  Logan  Temple. 

Following  prayer  the  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "O  ye  moun- 
tains high." 

PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 

I  thoroughly  enjoyed  the  meeting  this  morning.  I  hope  I  shali 
enjoy  the  meeting  this  afternoon,  and  particularly,  that  while  I  speak 
to  you  I  may  be  led  by  the  Spirit  which  was  here  this,  morning  and 
prompted  the  remarks  that  were  made,  and  which  the  Lord  has  blessed 
me  with  many  times,  at  home  and  abroad,  when  it  has  become  my  duty 
to  stand  up  before  a  congregation. 

I  am  suffering  from  some  disabilites  which  are  very  unpleasant 
to  me  personally.  They  are  of  physical  character  but  I  am  not  sick 
abed.  I  am  thankful  indeed  that  I  am  able  to  be  present  this  afternoon 
and  look  upon  this  vast  congregation.  I  wish  I  could  see  you  clearly,  as 
I  used  to  do  in  times  that  are,  past,  but  my  eyes  are  about  worn  out, 
I  think,  and  I  do  not  have  any  faith  that  I  shall  recover  the  keen  eye- 
sight which  I  enjoyed  for  so  many  years;  but  I  am  thankful  to  God 
this  afternoon  to  be  present. 

THROUGH  THE  SPIRIT  WE  ARE  FED  THE  BREAD  OF  LIFE 

I  was  grateful  this  morning,  with  all  my  soul,  in  listening  to  the 
remarks  that  were  made  by  our  brethern  who  spoke  by  the  Spirit  and 
from  their  hearts.  I  think  we  are  able  to  tell  when  a  man  talks  from  the 
heart  or  merely  from  the  brain.  Some  men  who  are  accustomed  to 
public  speaking  can  roll  out  a  very  fine  discourse  or  oration  or  lecture 
that  comes  from  human  thought,  and  it  is  subject  to  human  errors,  very 
often,  and  we  can  detect  them ;  but  when  a  man  speaks  under  the  in- 
fluenec  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  Comforter,  the  Spirit  of  Truth,  the 
light  that  comes  from  God  to  the  soul  of  man,  there  is  something 
about  what  he  says  that  goes  to  our  hearts,  not  only  to  our  ears  but  it 
goes  down  into  our  inward  being,  and  we  are  fed  with  the  bread  of 
life  and  we  are  nourished  thereby  and  we  carry  away  with  us,  when  we 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  25 


go  home,  or  wherever  we'  go,  the  influence  of  it.  It  clings  to  us.  It  not 
only  rings  in  our  ears  when  we  hear  good  sentences,  but  the  spirit  of 
it  goes  down  into  our  inward  being  and  we  are  refreshed  and  revived 
and  fitted  for  the  duties  that  devolve  upon  us  as  servants  of  the  most 
high  God. 

THE  CHURCH  THE  MOST  WONDERFUL  ORGANIZATION 

One  of  the  speakers  said  that  this  was  one  of  the  most  wonderful 
organizations  on  the  earth,  all  of  which  is  true,  but  a  word  more  might 
be  added, — that  it  is  the  most  wonderful.  It  is  so,  because  it  is  different 
from  anything  else  organized  on  earth  in  the  shape  of  religion.  There 
are  many  differences  between  our  views,  doctrines,  and  principles,  and 
our  way  of  doing  things,  and  the  various  religions  in  the  Christian  and 
the  heathen  world,  but  there  is  this  great  difference ;  everything  in  this 
Church  is  as  directed  by  divine  revelation.  One  of  the  brethren  alluded  to 
the  manifestation  of  God,  the  Father  and  the  Son,  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
in  his  boyhood,  something  which  he  relates  himself  and  we  can  read  in 
the  book  called  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  which  contains  a  great  many 
things  that  we  all  ought  to  give  heed  to  and  understand.  There  are 
revelations  in  that  little  book  that  came  direct  from  the  Father  through 
Jesus  Christ  his  Son,  to  Moses,  long  before  he  gave  the  law  on  mount 
Sinai,  which  were  revealed  to  him,  in  vision ;  and  the  same  visions 
that  he  gave  to  Moses  were  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  I  think  about 
June,  1830.  They  are  of  great  moment  and  they  contain  great  and 
glorious  principles  and  promises. 

WHAT  GOD  REVEALES,  ORDAINS  AND  COMMANDS  IS  HIS  RELIGION 

One  thing  clearly  revealed  in  that  which  God  gave  to  Moses  before 
he  gave  him  the  Mosaic  law,  as  we  call  it,  was  the  point  that  what  God 
calls  men  to  and  ordains  them,  to  and  reveals  unto  them  is  his  word  and 
that  it  shall  abide,  and  that  it  is  different  from  that  which  comes  from 
man  only.  He  does  not  accept  just  what  man  may  choose  to  offer  him, 
either  by  way  of  sacrifice  or  by  any  other  way.  That  which  he  ordains, 
that  which  he  reveals,  that  which  he  commands  is  God's  religion  that 
comes  to  us,  and  that  we  should  observe  and  obey.  It  is  all  right  for 
all  the  inhabitants  of  earth,  according  to  their  own  notions,  to  breathe 
out  their  desires  to  the  Lord  and  to  offer  to  him  what  they  think  is 
good  for  them  to  offer,  but  the  Lord  instituted  sacrifices  in  the  early 
times,  and  when  our>  parents  were  driven  out  of  the  Garden  of  Eden, 
Adam  was  told  to  build  an  altar  and  offer  a  sacrifice  to  the  Lord,  which 
was  to  be  from  the  firstlings  of  his  flock.  Adam  was  a  tiller  of  the 
soil,  as  well  as  keeper  of  flocks,  but  that  which  the  Lord  commanded 
him  he  did  without  question.  When  he  was  asked  by  the  angel  of  God, 
so  we  read  in  that  vision  to  Moses,  why  he  did  that,  he  said  he  did  not 
know  but  he  did  know  that  God  had  commanded  it.  That  was  enough 
for  him.  Then  the  angel  explained  to  him  that  this  sacrifice  that  God 
commanded  him  to  offer  was  in  the  similitude  of  the  great  sacrifice  to 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


be  offered  by  the  Only  Begotten  Son,  Jesus  the  Christ.  That  was  the 
name  given  to  him  by  the  Father,  we  are  told.  So  Adam  did  that  under- 
standingly;  so  did  his  son  Abel;  so  did  Seth,  and  so  did  others  of  his 
posterity,  away  down  to  the  time  of  Enoch,  Abraham,  Isaac,  Noah, 
Jacob  and  Moses.  This  was  offered  in  the  way  that  God  ordained,  and 
therefore  it  was  acceptable  in  his  sight. 

COD  HAS  SPOKEN  IN  THE  TIME  IN  WHICH  WE  LIVE 

Now  in  these  times  in  which  we  live,  God  has  spoken  again  from 
heaven.  For  a  long  time  there  had  been  no  direct  intercourse  between 
the  Father  and  the  Son  and  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  by  way  of 
commandment  and  revelation.  They  were  left,  to  a  large  extent,  after 
they  departed  from  the  Gospel  that  his  Son  revealed,  to  their  own  de- 
vices ;  and  so  confusion  came  into  the  world  and  "darkness  covered  the 
earth  and  gross  darkness  the  people."  In  the  midst  of  this,  many  of  them 
thought  they  had  great  light,  but  tha't  which  they  had  came  from 
their  own  reflections,  to  a  large  degree,  and  communication  was  not  kept 
up  between  Deity  and  humanity.  Now,  when  the  Lord  revealed  him- 
self, as  he  most  certainly  did, as  testified  to  this  morning  by  the  brethren, 
— and  I  add  my  testimony  that  the  Father  and  the  Son  did  manifest 
themselves  to  the  boy  Toseph  in  the  grove  near  his  father's  house,  where 
he  went  to  offer  for  the  first  time  a  vocal  prayer  to  God — and  when  he 
called  upon  the  Father  and  asked  him  which  of  all  the  different  religious 
sects  he  should  join,  the  Father  turning  and  pointing  to  his  Son,  said ; 
"Joseph,  th's  is  my  beloved  Son.  Hear  him."  That  was  the  word  of 
God  the  Father  to  Joseph  the  boy.  That  is  the  word  of  God  to  the 
whole  earth  today.  It  has  come  to  us  and  we  should  remember  it. 
It  is  what  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  reveals,  as  the  representative  of  the 
Father,  that  we  are  to  receive.  And  so,  all  the  revelations  that  have 
come  to  us,  as  referred  to  this  morning  by  President  Grant,  contained 
in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  which  is  a  collection  of  revelations 
from  the  Lord,  came  through  Jesus  Christ,  "Hearken  to  the  voice  of 
Jesus  Christ,  the  great  I  Am,  whose  arm  of  mercy  hath  atoned  for  your 
sins,"  is  the  opening  phrase  in  many  of  those  revelations. 

CELESTIAL  OR  ETERNAL  MARRIAGE 

The  Lord  has  disclosed  to  us  in  section  132  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  a  revelation  concerning  his  ways  and  concerning  things  of 
time  and  things  of  eternity.  Among  them  is  the  law  of  celestial  or  eternal 
marriage.  That  is  only  one  of  the  principles  revealed  there.  Here  is 
what  the  Lord  says  in  verses  8  to  11  of  that  section  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants : 

"Behold,  mine  house  is  a  house  of  order,  saith  the  Lord  God,  and  not  a 
house  of  confusion. 

"Will  I  accept  of  an  offering,  saith  the  Lord,  that  is  not  made  in  my 
name  ? 

"Or  will  I  receive  at  your  hands  that  which  I  have  not  appointed? 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 


27 


"And  will  I  appoint  unto  you,  saith  the  Lord,  except  it  be  by  law,  even 
as  I  and  my  Father  ordained  unto  you,  before  the  world  was?' 

Just  think  that  over.  That  is  an  eternal  principle.  God  reveals 
what  he  wants  done  and  his  people  are  to  abide  by  it  and  carry  it  out 
in  their  lives. 

The  revelation  goes  on  to  say : 

"I  am  the  Lord  thy  God,  and  I  give  unto  you  this  commandment — That 
no  man  shall  come  unto  the  Father  but  by  me  or  by  my  word,  which  is  my 
law,  saith  the  Lord. 

"And  everything  that  is  in  the  world,  whether  it  be  ordained  of  men,  by- 
thrones,  or  principalities,  or  powers,  or  things  of  name,  whatsoever  they  may  be, 
that  are  not  by  me  or  by  my  word,  saith  the  Lord,  shall  be  thrown  down,  and 
shall  not  remain  after  men  are  dead,  neither  in  nor  after  the  resurrection,  saith 
the  Lord  your  God. 

"For  whatsoever  things  remain  are  by  me ;  and  whatsoever  things  are  not 
by  me  shall  be  shaken  and  destroyed." 

Based  upon  this  principle,  the  Lord  continues : 

"Therefore,  if  a  man  marry  a  wife  in  the  world,  and  he  marry  her  not  by 
me,  nor  by  my  word,  and  he  covenant  with  her  so  long  as  he  is  in  the  world, 
and  she  with  him,  their  covenant  and  marriage  arc  not  of  force  when  they 
are  dead,  and  when  they  are  out  of  the  world.  Therefore,  they  are  not  bound 
by  any  law  when  they  are  out  of  the  world." 

Further  than  this  the  Lord  goes  on  to  say : 

"And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you.  if  a  man  marry  a  wife  and  make  a 
covenant  with  her  for  time  and  all  eternity,  if  that  covenant  is  not  by  me  or 
by  my  word,  which  is  my  law,  and  is  not  sealed  by  the  Holy  Spirit  of 
promise,  through  him  whom  T  have  anointed  and  appointed  unto  this  power, 
then  it  is  not  valid,  neither  of  force  when  they  are  out  of  the  world,  because 
they  are  not  joined  by  me,neither  by  my  word." 

So,  therefore,  the  Lord  institutes  his  order  of  eternal  marriage 
and  he  warns  his  people  that  unless  they  abide  by  that  law  their  union 
cannot  be  continued,  they  cannot  increase  in  the  world  to  come,  and 
their  marriage  does  not  last  any  longer  than  the  time  that  they  live  in 
the  flesh.    After  death  comes  that  is  the  end  of  it. 

SHOW  THE  CHILDREN  WHAT  THE  LORD  ORDAINS  AND  WHY 

Now  why  should  the  Lord  accept  of  all  those  different  religions 
that  men  have  made?  Why  should  the  Lord  accept  of  offerings  that 
men  offer  which  he  has  not  commanded,  and  neglected  to  do  that 
which  he  has  commanded?  There  is  no  reason  in  my  irr'nd 
why  he  should.  Therefore,  says  the  Lord,  if  men  do  this  and  they  do 
not  abide  by  his  law,  it  does  not  continue.  So,  here  is  something  we 
should  understand  and  teach  to  our  children.  Mothers  and  fathers 
in  Israel,  make  it  plain  to  your  children,  not  in  an  offensive  way,  as 
some  have  done,  but  show  them  what  the  Lord  ordains  and  why  he  or- 
dains it,  so  that  they  may,  if  they  will,  enter  into  the  new  and  everlast- 
ing covenant  of  marriage  as  God  has  ordained,  do  that  which  will  con- 
tinue in  and  after  the  resurrection  from  the  dead  and  abide  eternally ; 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


wherein  they  will  find  everlasting  increase  and  power  and  dominion 
worlds  without  end. 

LEARN  WHAT  THE  LORD  HAS  COMMANDED  AND  OBEY  IT 

In  the  sectarian  world  there  are  a  number  of  religious  organiza- 
tions. All  of  them,  perhaps  most  of  them  at  any  rate,  have  some  good 
in  them.  That  which  is  good  and  true  is  all  right ;  but  there  is  not  one 
of  them  according  to  that  revelation,  that  has  been  set  up  and  ordained 
by  direct  commandment  of  the  Lord.  This  Church  is  sui  generis.  It  is 
of  itself.  There  is  no  other  organization  on  the  face  of  the  earth  that 
has  been  organized  under  direct  revelation  and  commandment  of  the 
Most  High,  and  organized  personally  under  the  direction  of  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Only  Begotten  Son  of  God  in  the  flesh.  Hear  him,  O  ye 
nations !  Hear  him,  O  ye  Latter-day  Saints !  Find  out  what  the  Lord 
has  commanded  and  obey  it  and  there  shall  be  peace  in  your  souls  and 
you  shall  have  contentment,  not  only  the  remission  of  your  past  sins, 
but  you  shall  have  the  abiding  witness  in  your  souls  that  gave  so  much 
comfort  to  our  brethren  who  spoke  this  morning,  and  we  can  all  have 
it,  as  one  of  them  testified. 

Now  then,  that  is  the  principle  upon  which  that  commandment  is 
founded,  by  which  our  people  are  told  to  enter  into  the  sacred  order 
of  celestial,  that  is,  eternal  marriage.  If  a  man  marry  a  wife  in  the  new 
and  everlasting  covenant  and  it  is  sealed  upon  their  heads  that  that 
marriage  shall  endure,  and  they  live  according  to  it,  they  shall  come 
forth  in  the  first  resurrection,  and  they  will  continue  in  it  forever  and 
ever  and  there  is  no  end  to  their  increase  and  their  glory  and  their  do- 
minion and  their  power.  It  leads  to  infinitude,  which  we  cannot  fully 
comprehend  now  but  which  we  will  when  we  receive  that  Spirit  in  its 
fulness  and  receive  our  resurrected  bodies,  quickened  after  the  power 
of  endless  life;  we  enter  into  an  infinitude  of  knowledge  which  will 
come  to  us  as  the  ages  and  ages  go  on  and  there  is  no  end  to  it. 

THE  LORD  HAS  SET  UP  HIS  CHURCH  AND  KINGDOM 

Now,  I  know  this  is  true.  I  know  it  just  as  I  know  that  I  live, 
that  the  Lord,  in  these  last  days,  has  commenced  the  work  referred  to 
by  all  the  holy  prophets  since  the  world  began,  to  set  up  his  Church 
and  kingdom.  This  is  "the  kingdom  of  God."  This  is  the  kingdom 
of  heaven  into  which  no  one  can  enter  except  in  the  way  that  the  Lord 
has  provided.  Christ  says :  "I  am  the  way,  the  truth  and  the  life. 
No  man  cometh  to  the  Father  but  by  me,"  and  "If  any  man  will  do 
his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether 
I  speak  of  myself."  And  he  has  declared  that  we  cannot  enter  into 
the  kigndom  except  by  the  door,  not  only  for  the  remission  of  sins  but 
to  enter  into  that  Church  and  kingdom  of  God.  That  is  what  he 
taught  to  Nicodemus.  He  told  Nicodemus,  first,  he  "could  not  see  the 
kingdom  unless  he  was  born  again ;"  and  the  Apostles  taught,  in  their 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  29 


letters  to  the  churches  of  their  time,  that  they  had  to  be  "born  of  the 
word  of  God"  that  comes  through  Christ,  which  opens  the  eyes,  which 
enables  people  to  see  the  truth.  "Faith  cometh  by  hearing,  and  hear- 
ing by  the  word  of  God,"  says  Paul.  But,  how  can  they  hear  without 
a  preacher,  and  how  can  he  preach  except  he  be  sent?  (Rom.  13  :17.) 
That  is  the  idea.  God  sends  men  to  speak  his  word  by  the  power  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  and  the  Spirit  resting  down  upon  the  hearers  who 
are  willing  to  recive  it,  kindles  faith  in  their  souls  by  the  testimony  that 
is  born  and  they  see  the  light  right  here.  And  then  very  often,  in  our 
public  gatherings,  in  the  streets  and  in  our  meeting  places,  and  by 
seeing  that  which  is  right,  faith  is  kindled  in  their  hearts,  which  is 
the  beginning  of  the  gospel  of  Christ,  the  beginning  of  true  religion. 
Faith  in  the  true  God  is  the  beginning  of  true  religion,  and  that 
leads  to  repentance.  This  is  what  Oliver  Cowdery  could  not  under- 
stand when  he  had  that  dispute  with  the  Prophet  Joseph,  in  the  rise 
of  the  Church.  The  revelation  says  that  all  who  have  "received  the 
Spirit  of  Christ  unto  the  remission  of  their  sins  shall  be  received  by 
baptism  into  the  Church."  (Doc.  and  Cov.  sec.  20:37.)  Oliver  could 
not  understand  that,  and  he  had  the  hardihood  or  assumption  to  call 
upon  the  Prophet  Joseph,  in  the  name  of  God,  to  erase  that  from  the 
revelation,  but  of  course  the  Prophet  did  not  erase  it.  He  had  received 
it  from  the  Lord  and  it  is  the  eternal  truth.  What  the  people  of  the 
world  need  is  something  to  lead  them  up  to  repentance,  and  then  to  be 
baptized  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  this  is  the  operation,  the  first 
operation  of  the  Spirit  of  Christ  in  the  soul  of  man.  Seeing  the  king- 
dom and  entering  into  it  are  different  operations.  When  he  hears  the 
word  and  believes  it,  faith  is  kindled  in  his  heart  and  it  leads  to  re- 
pentance, and  repentance  to  baptism,  wherein  . is  the  remission  of  sins, 
and  he  comes  in  by  the  door  into  the  Church  or  Kingdom  of  Christ, 
and  is  then  confirmed  by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands  that  he  may  receive 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ;  that  is  the  Holy  Ghost  as  a  gift,  an  abiding 
witness,  a  continual  testimony,  .something  that  stays  in  the  soul,  not 
given  like  a  flash  of  light  for  a  time  and  taken  away  again,  not  like 
the  temporary  light  that  lights  every  man  that  comes  into  the  world, 
although  it  is  from  the  same  source;  but  the  abiding  witness  as  a  gift 
from  God,  as  Peter  taught  on  the  day  of  Pentecost,  when  the  Jews 
began  to  see  that  they  had  been  in  the  dark  and  that  their  nation  had 
rejected  the  Messiah.  They  cried:  "Men  and  brethren,  what  shall 
we  do  ?"  Then  said  Peter :  "Repent  and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  ye  shall 
receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  For  the  promise  is  unto  you, 
and  to  your  children,  and  to  all  that  are  afar  off,  even  as  many  as  the 
Lord  our  God  shall  call ;"  all  that  receive  the  word,  if  they  believe  and 
repent  and  are  baptized  they  shall  receive  the  Holy  Ghost.  They  are 
first  born  of  the  word,  next  born  of  the  water  and  of  the  Spirit.  ( Read 
I  Peter  1:23;  Jas.  1:18.) 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ONLY  ONE  GOD'S  RELIGION 

Now,  my  brethren,  in  the  different  sections  in  the  world  they  have 
their  religions  and  a  great  many  of  our  people  are  being  led  off  here 
and  there,  particularly  out  in  the  world,  to  attend  their  services.  There 
is  no  harm  about  that,  but  they  should  come  to  the  understanding  that 
there  is  but  one  God's  religion  and  that  is  what  God  reveals.  There  is 
only  one  gospel  and  that  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  about  which 
President  Grant  read  this  morning  from  that  glorious  vision  that  Joseph 
Smith,  the  prophet,  received,  with  Sidney  Rigdon.  He  saw  it.  Sidney- 
saw  it,  and  it  is  one  of  the  biggest  testimonies  that  although  he 
had  to  lie  cut  off  this  Church  for  his  transgressions,  yet  he  never 
denied  his  testimony ;  and  so  with  the  three  witnesses  to  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  They  say  what  they  testified  of,  and  their  testimony  remains 
and  abides  and  what  they  said  is  true.  Now  then,  we  want  to  teach 
our  children  that  they  may  understand  that  there  may  be  good  things 
in  the  religions  of  the  world  and  in  the  educations  of  the  world ;  that 
which  is  good  is  all  right,  that  which  is  really  scientific  is  all  right, 
but  a  great  deal  of  what  is  called  scientific  is  nothing  but  philosophical, 
and  some  of  it  is  vain  philosophy.  The  Lord  is  our  God  and  he  cre- 
ated or  organized  the  world  on  which  we  stand,  as  he  organized  many 
other  worlds,  as  shown  to  Moses,  and  he  gives  his  word  to  the  people 
to  obey,  and  that  which  he  reveals  should  be  obeyed. 

THE  LORD'S  PLAN  FOR  THE  GOVERNMENT  OF  HIS  CHURCH 

In  the  discipline  of  his  Church,  he  has  created  a  splendid  estab- 
lishment, or  organization.  We  understand  it  and  we  should  get  to  un- 
derstand it  fully.  I  recommend,  my  brethren,  and  measurably  my 
sisters,  to  become  fully  acquainted  with  Section  107  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  in  which  the  organization  of  this  Church  is  embodied 
and  set  forth  in  great  plainness.  There  is  the  Lord's  plan  for  the 
government  of  his  Church.  Now,  when  his  servants  whom  he  has 
called  and  set  apart  and  ordahied  to  certain  offices  and  work  in  the 
Church,  bring  forth  something  for  the  obedience  and  edification  and 
order  of  the  Church  of  Christ  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  in  them, 
by  the  authority  that  he  has  revealed, — the  Holy  Priesthood  referred 
to  this  morning1 — it  is  of  the  Lord.  He  says  so.  He  has  ordained  and 
set  up  his  Church  in  that  form,  and  that  which  he  has  given  to  us  will 
abide.  It  will  never  be  taken  from  the  earth.  Some  of  the  people 
want  to  know  what  we  will  do  if  the  First  Presidency  is  dissolved 
by  death  and  the  Twelve  Apostles  are  all  gone.  What  then?  That  is 
an  if  you  need  not  bother  yourselves  about.  There  will  always  be 
somebody  on  the  earth  in  this  Church  that  can  set  in  order  the  things 
of  the  kingdom ;  but  if  they  do  it,  it  will  be  done  by  the  commandment 
of  God,  by  revelation  from  the  Most  High,  the  Eternal  Father,  through 
Jesus  Christ  his  Son,  who  is  at  the  head  of  the  Church.  This  is  his 
Church, — the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, — and  we 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 


31 


should  be  ready  and  willing  to  obey  every  commandment  that  he  re- 
veals ;  and  the  order  established  therein  is  of  God  and  it  will  continue 
and  abide  and  spread  forth  and  prevail.  Hear  it,  O  Israel !  Be  obe- 
dient to  the  Lord  your  God,  as  revealed  from,  the  heavens  through 
Jesus  Christ,  and  it  will  be  done  to  the  Church  in  the  order  and  man- 
ner that  he  has  prescribed  and  set  up,  for  his  house  is  a  house  of  order 
and  not  a  house  of  confusion.  When  people  have  the  presumption 
to  go  off  on  the  side,  on  the  right  or  left,  or  in  any  direction  they  please, 
and  officiate  in  the  Lord's  name  in  things  that  do  not  belong  to  them, 
it  is  void  and  of  non-effect ;  and  so  with  the  ordinances  and  adminis- 
trations of  men  not  authorized  of  God  and  not  clothed  upon  with  the 
authority  of  the  Holy  Priesthood  that  comes  through  Jesus  Christ,  the 
Son  of  God,  to  the  Ghurch. 

PERSONAL  TESTIMONY 

I  do  not  want  to  enlarge  on  this  any  further,  because  I  would  he 
taking  up  too  much  time.  I  have  occupied  a  little  more  than  my  time 
this  afternoon.  But,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  well  in  mind,  in  spirit, 
in  all  my  being.  The  Lord  has  been  with  me  through  my  ministra- 
tions in  many  lands,  for  many  years.  I  have  preached  this  gospel 
in  many  of  the  states  of  the  Union,  throughout  the  British  Isles,  through 
the  continent  of  Europe,  in  the  Scandinavian  countries,and  on  some  of 
the  isles  of  the  sea ;  and  I  am  ready  to  do  anything  I  am  told  to  do 
that  the  Lord  may  require  at  my  hands,  I  am  pleased  and  proud  lo  be 
associated  with  the  present  President  and  leader  of  the  Church.  Like 
one  of  the  brethren  who  spoke  this  morning,  I  have  been  personally 
acquainted  with  them  all  from  the  days  of  Brigham  Young  right  down 
to  the  present  time,  and  I  can  testify  that  they  are  men  of  God  and  that 
they  occupied  those  places  they  held  by  the  word  and  will  and  com- 
mandment of  God  and  in  the  authority  of  that  Holy  Priesthood  which 
has  been  restored  to  earth. 

I  know  this  Church  and  organization  is  different  from  anything 
else  in  the  world.  It  is  of  God  and  not  of  man.  That  which  is  of 
man,  so  far  as  it  is  of  man,  is  from  men  who  are  ordained  and  ap- 
pointed to  represent  the  Lord,  to  act  in  his  holy  name,  under  the  di- 
rection of  his  authority  and  priesthood,  and  I  testify  to  you  that  it  shall 
continue  to  abide  though  many  of  us  will  pass  away. 

I  rejoice  today  in  the  truth.  I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  of  Jesus. 
I  rejoice  in  the  knowledge  that  Christ  did  give  me  my  freedom,  I  am 
free.  How?  Free  from  the  sins  that  were  remitted  at  the  waters  of 
baptism,  free  from  the  vanities  and  vain  conceptions  of  men,  free  from 
folly  in  doctrine  and  principle,  free  from  the  influence  that  men  would 
exercise  to  bind  my  soul.  I  am  free  to  carry  out  the  will  and  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord,  which  I  hope  to  be  during  the  remainder  of 
my  existence  on  the  earth.  I  have  devoted  my  life  and  time  and  what 
ability  I  have  had,  for  many  years  to  the  service  of  the  Church.  I  re- 
joice in  that.  The  Church  doesn't  owe  me  anything.  I  owe  everything 
that  there  is  to  me  to  the  Church,  and  I  love  it  and  I  love  the  truth.  I 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


love  my  brethren  and  I  love  the  good  work  in  which  I  am  engaged, 
and  I  love  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters  in  the  gospel  of  peace,  and  I 
desire  your  welfare  and  that  of  your  posterity,  for  in  that  will  be  a 
great  deal  of  your  joy  in  the  worlds  to  come, — in  your  children  and 
children's  children. 

THE  SPEAKER'S  BENEDICTION  UPON  THE  PEOPLE 

God  bless  you,  as  he  blessed  Ephraim,  and  in  your  seed  many 
of  the  nations  of  the  earth  will  be  blessed.  Through  them  God  will 
work  out  his  mighty  plans,  many  of  which  are  not  yet  disclosed ;  and 
the  kingdom  of  God  will  roll  on  and  the  truth  will  be  triumphant  and 
darkness  will  be  banished  and  the  reign  of  evil  will  cease.  Satan 
will  be  bound  and  his  hosts  with  him,  and  the  wicked  will  not  con- 
tinue to  flourish.  The  righteous  will  prevail  and  the  kingdom  and 
government  of  God  which  he  has  set  up  will  cover  the  earth  until  the 
very  earth  itself,  having  filled  the  law  of  its  being,  will  be  resurrected 
and  clothed  upon  with  the  glory  of  God,  and  Christ  will  be  its  king. 

God  bless  you,  brethren  and  sisters.  May  his  peace  abide  with 
you  and  be  in  your  homes,  surround  your  homes  with  everything  that 
is  good,  bright,  lovely  and  comfortable.  Teach  your  children  in  kind- 
ness to  come  up  in  the  way  that  God  Almighty  has  established  and  that 
is  going  to  prevail.  It  is  going  to  be  the  kingdom.  The  kingdoms  of 
this  world  will  become  the  kingdom  of  our  God  and  his  Christ,  and  he 
will  reign  forever  and  ever.  May  we  all  be  found  worthy  to  reign 
with  him  in  glory,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Two  little  girls,  Florence  and  Blanche  Critchlow  of  Ogden.  sang 
a  duet,  the  old,  familiar  hymn,  "O  My  Father." 

Their  voices  were  clear  and  distinct  and  every  word  could  be  heard 
throughout  the  whole,  great  congregation. 

President  Grant,  at  the  close  of  their  singing,  stated  that  these  chil- 
dren should  teach  some  of  our  professionals  how  to'  sing  so  that  we 
could  understand  the  words.  He  announced  also  that  amplifiers  had 
been  placed  in  the  Tabernacle,  to  aid  the  congregation  in  hearing  the 
speakers,  and  that  if  there  were  any  who  were  standing  who  could  not 
hear,  they  would  be  able  to  hear  what  was  being  said  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  have  a  good  seat. 


ELDER  EDWARD  W.  CROFT 

{President  of  the  Bighorn  Stake  of  Zion) 

I  have  been  coming  to  the  general  conferences  of  the  Church,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  for  over  thirty  years.    I  feel  today  that  I  am  hon- 
ored, and  that  it  is  a  privilege  granted  me  this  day  to  look  into  the  faces 
of  so  many  of   my  brethren   and   sisters.      I   am  thankful  above 
all    other    things    in   the  world  that   this  day,  my    brethren  and 


ELDER  EDWARD  W.  CROFT 


33 


sisters,  I  find  my  soul  in  tune  with  this  great  and  marvelous  work  that 
has  been  established  by  our  heavenly  Father.  I  was  impressed  with 
the  statement  of  President  Grant  this  morning  that  there  were  only  a 
very  few  of  the  general  authorities  now  left  who  were  present  at  the 
dedication  of  the  wonderful  temple.  I  remembered  that  I  had  been 
listening  to  a  great  many  of  the  brethren,  and  I  was  thankful  in  my 
heart  that  I  could  say  truthfully  that  in  all  I  have  ever  heard  or  ever 
read  from  them,  I  have  been  able  to  find  myself  in  harmony  with 
them.  I  am  glad  this  day  that  I  have  a  testimony  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  that  I  retain  it  as  delivered  to  me  from  my  mother  and 
father  who  received  the  gospel  in  England  many  years  ago.  I  am 
proud  of  the  fact  that  I  can,  in  humility,  be  counted  worthy  to  assist, 
in  my  humble,  feeble  way,  in  the  great  and  wonderful  work  of  the 
Lord.  I  am  laboring  in  the  Big  Horn  stake  of  Zion.  You  remember 
that  some  twenty-two^  years  ago,  the  people  were  called  to  colonize  that 
country,  and  I  am  certain  that  there  are  brethren  and  sisters  here  who 
will  be  glad  to  know  of  the  success  of  the  work  of  God  in  that  country, 
because  of  the  fact  that  we  were  called  there,  a  great  many  of  us.  With 
some  of  the  other  brethren  who  spoke  this  morning,  I  can  say  that  we 
are  somewhat  in  bondage,  in  debt,  because  we  failed  to  follow  the 
counsels  of  the  authorities  of  this  great  organization;  and  while  our 
lands,  some  of  them,  are  mortgaged  and  boggy,  I  would  like  to  bring 
to  the  Church  the  message  from  our  stake  that  we  have  very  few  peo- 
ple who  have  mortgages  on  their  faith  in  God,  and  their  confidence 
in  the  leaders  of  this  Church,  and  in  the  Priesthood  of  Almighty  God. 
Two  weeks  ago  last  Sunday  we  held  a  little  district  conference  over  in 
a  district  of  our  stake,  and  the  bishop  and  ward  clerk  announced  that 
there  were  one  hundred  percent  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  present  in 
that  meeting,  within  a  radius  of  ten  miles  of  the  meetinghouse.  It  has 
been  a  pleasure  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  labor  in  that  stake 
of  Zion. 

I  am  also  thankful,  today,  that  from  the  little  study  I  have  made 
of  the  science  in  which  I  am  practicing,  that  of  a  practicing  physician, 
I  have  not  found  anything  in  the  healing  arts  that  begins  to  com- 
pare with  the  healing  power  of  the  Priesthood,  and  the  prayer  of 
faith,  following  the  anointing  with  oil.  I  would  like  to  testify  to  you 
this  afternoon,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  with  all  the  ability  that 
I  have  been  able  to  acquire  in  the  diagnosis  of  disease,  I  have  found, 
in  the  wonderful  faith  of  our  people,  that  the  promised  blessings  do 
follow  the  believer!  in  Jesus  Christ,  in  the  wonderful  things  that  he  said 
would  follow  the  believer  ;  and  that  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  I  spend 
a  good  many  more  hours  in  the  practice  of  medicine  than  I  spend  in  the 
preaching  of  the  gospel,  and  in  my  labors  in  the  Big  Horn  stake  of 
Zion,  I  find  that  all  of  the  diseases,  irrespective  of  the  fact  that  they 
are  produced  by  germs,  many  of  them  specifically,  give  way  before 
the  prayer  of  faith,  and  that  in  pneumonia  and  heart  trouble,  in  frac- 
tured bones  and  in  all  these  things  that  the  human  body  is  heir  to,  I 
•  2 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


have  found  the  prayer  of  faith  accomplishing  all  and  more,  yes  a  thou- 
sand times  more,  than  we  have  heen  able  to  accomplish,  in  many  re- 
spects, as  a  profession. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  1  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  God.  I 
know  that  my  acquaintance  with  all  of  the  leaders  since  President 
Brigham  Young  has  taught  me  that  they  have  been  men  of  God.  I 
have  been  personally  acquainted,  slightly,  with  each  of  them,  and  I 
can  testify  to  you  this  day  that  I  have  not  been  able  to  see  anything 
else  than  success  following  all  of  our  people  who  believe  and  follow 
the  instructions  of  the  authorities  of  this  Church.  Once  more  I  say 
that  I  am  more  than  thankful  this  day  that  in  all  the  journeys  I  have 
made  to  the  general  conferences,  1  have  been  able  to'  find  myself  in 
harmony  with  everything  that  has  heen  taught  and  advocated  by  the 
brethren,  and  where  I  have  put  it  into  practice,  success  has  followed 
my  efforts.  I  testify  to  you  that  God  lives.  I  know  that  he  is  my 
Father  ;  I  know  that  he  is  the  Father  of  our  spirits,  I  know  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  his  Son,  his  Only  Begotten  Son  in  the  flesh,  and  I  thank  God 
this  day  that  I  do  know  that  lie  is  my  Redeemer.  1  testify  to  you  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet  of  God,  chosen  and  selected  to  do 
a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder,  and  I  am  thankful,  that  I  can  find 
myself  in  touch  and  in  tune  with  the  teachings  that  he  gave  the  hatter- 
day  Saints.  It  is  our  privilege  to  follow  his  direction,  and  the  direction 
of  those  whom  God  has  chosen  to  succeed  him,  even  unto  the  present 
day,  and  thereby  be  saved  in  the  celestial  kingdom  of  God.  1  thank  my 
Father  for  this  privilege-  for  this  blessing  of  meeting  in  this  confer- 
ence. I  am  very  thankful  that  my  part  of  it  is  over  with ;  but  it  is  an 
honor  to  any  man  to  face  a  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints  such  as 
this.  1  love  the  people  of  God.  My  professional  work  has  taken  me  in- 
to their  homes.  1  can  testify  to  all  the  world  that  the  Latter-day  Saint 
home,  guided  and  directed  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  is  the  most  wonderful 
place  in  all  the  world.  It  makes  men  and  women  good,  pure,  and  holy, 
and  prepares  them  to  do  the  wonderful  work  that  God  has  revealed 
through  his  servants.  May  the  Spirit  of  (Sod  be  with  us,  and  bless  us 
and  strengthen  us,  that  we  might  receive  it  with  open  hearts  and  with 
thanksgiving  unto  him,  and  with  gratitude  for  all  the  blessings  that 
this  conference  may  be  the  greatest  conference  we  ever  attended,  I  ask 
it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  HEBER  C.  AUSTIN 

{President  of  the  Bingham  Stake  of  Zion) 

I  feel,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  very  weak,  in  attempting  to  occupy 
this  position  for  just  a  few  moments.  1  assure  you  I  desire  an  interest 
in  your  faith  and  prayers,  that  1  may  be  led  to  say  something  that 
will  be  in  harmony  with  the  spirit  of  this  conference.  I  have  been 
delighted  with  the  instructions  and  the  testimonies  given  to  us,  and 
borne  to  us,  by  our  brethren  who  have  spoken.    I  was  delighted  with 


ELDER  HEBER  C.  AUSTIN 


35 


the  remarks  of  President  Grant  this  morning  wherein  he  gave  the 
statistics  of  the  Church.  We  observed  there  the  wonderful  things 
that  this  Church  is  accomplishing,  the  wonderful  things  that  it  has 
accomplished,  not  only  in  spiritual  matters,  but  in  temporal  matters.  I 
have  never  been  one  of  those  who  have  felt  to  find  fault  with  the  tem- 
poral activities  of  the  Church.  I  believe  that  it  is  very  hard  to  draw 
the  line  where  the  spiritual  things  should  cease  and  the  temporal  things 
begin.  I  realize  that  this  Church  and  the  activities  of  the  Church  have 
not  only  been  the  spiritual  salvation  of  its  members,  but  have  been  their 
temporal  salvation,  and  if  we  would  listen  to  the  counsel  and  instruc- 
tions that  are  given  to  us,  from  time  to  time,  by  our  brethren  here,  we 
would  not  find  ourselves  in  the  troubles  that  we  sometimes  do.  The 
fact  of  disobedience  is  always  followed  by  serious  consequences. 

Like  my  brethren  who  have  spoken  to  you  in  the  sessions  of  this 
conference,  both  this  morning  and  this  afternoon,  I  rejoice  in  the  fact 
that  I  have  been  permitted  to  associate  with  these  splendid  men  who 
constitute  the  general  authorities  of  this  Church.  I  find  myself  in  per- 
fect harmony  with  them.  I  sustain  them  with  all  my  soul;  and  the 
people  whom  I  represent,  whom  I  have  the  honor  to  preside  over  in  the 
Bingham  stake  of  Zion,  in  the  Snake  River  valley  of  Idaho,  sustain  the 
authorities  of  the  Church.  We  never  hear  of  any  murmuring,  we  never 
hear  of  any  complaints ;  and  we  are  endeavoring  and  seeking  to  live 
our  religion.  We  are  not  always  obedient  to  the  counsel  and  advice 
given  to  us.  If  we  were  our  condition  would  not  be  what  it  is  today. 
I  remember  very  well  the  brethren  repeatedly,  in  their  visits  to  our 
quarterly  conferences,  have  advised  our  people  to  get  out  of  debt 
and  keep  out  of  debt,  and  had  we  listened  to  that  counsel  it  would 
have  been  a  great  bles-sing  to  us. 

I  find  myself,  however,  like  one  of  the  brethren  who  spoke  this 
morning,  that  I  have  endeavored  to  obey  that  counsel.  I  am  not  in 
debt,  and  I  suppose  if  I  were  I  would  not  be  able  to  pay.  But  let  that 
be  as  it  may.  I  know  that  the  brethren  are  inspired  by  the  Lord  to  ad- 
vise and  counsel  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  know  that  in  obeying  their 
counsel  there  is  safety.  You  have  heard  many  hard-luck  stories"  about 
our  people.  I  think  probably  we  have  been  represented  really  worse 
than  we  are.  In  my  visits  to  Salt  Lake,  from  time  to  time,  my  friends 
come  up  and  condole  with  me  in  the  very  serious  condition  that  pre- 
vails in  our  section  of  country.  Well,  in  a  measure  it  is  serious,  but 
it  is  not  so  bad  as  you  think  it  is.  The  great  majority  of  our  people 
are  sound  financially.  We  have  some  small  percent.  I  suppose,  that 
will  eventually  find  themselves  in  bankruptcy,  but  the  great  majority, 
a  good  percentage  of  our  people,  are  sound  financially.  If  we  exer- 
cise a  little  patience,  a  little  helpful  influence,  a  little  encouragement 
because  we  have  in  that  section  of  country  the  best,  yes  I  think  the 
best  agricultural  district  in  the  intermountain  country,  we  shall  pull 
through.  I  don't  know  Of  a  section  of  country,  anywhere,  where  you 
can  produce  more  to  the  acre  than  you  can  in  the  Snake  River  valley, 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


amply  supplied  with  an  abundance  of  water,  a  splendid  climate  and  a 
good  soil.  We  have,  probably,  during'  the  time  of  our  prosperity,  dur- 
ing the  time  of  easy  money,  gotten  away  from  the  habit  of  industry  to 
some  extent.  We  may  have  thought  that  we  could  afford  to  retire  and 
employ  someone  else  to  do  our  work,  and  we  shall  have  to  return  to 
first  principles.  We  ourselves,  have  to  learn,  and  also  teach  our  fam- 
ilies, to  be  industrious,  and  when  we  do  that  we  shall  find  ourselves  on 
the  road  to  recovery. 

I  rejoice  in  the  gospel.  Like  many  of  the  other  brethren  who  have 
spoken,  I  was  born  of  splendid,  good  parents  who  made  all  sorts  of 
sacrifices,  if  you  could  call  it  sacrifice,  to  embrace  tbe  gospel.  They 
passed  through  the  trials  and  tribulations,  many  of  them,  of  the  early 
history  of  this  Church,  and  they  implanted  in  the  hearts  of  their  chil- 
dren a  testimony  of  the  gospel.  Like  my  brother  who  has  spoken  be- 
fore me,  I  know  that  the  gospel  is  true.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  the  Lord,  and  I  know  that  these  brethren  who  have 
stood  at  the  head  of  this  Church  from  that  time  till  now  have  been 
called  and  sustained  of  the  Lord.  May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help 
us,  1  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  DUCKWORTH 

{President  of  the  Blackfoot  Stake  of  Zion) 

Those  who  have  had  the  privilege  of  occupying  this  position  can 
appreciate  the  feelings  of  one  who  is  unaccustomed  to  it  as  I  am,  and 
I  realize  unless  I  am  assisted  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  my  remarks 
that  I  shall  not  edify  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  have  no  thought  in  my 
heart  at  this  time  other  than  to  say  what  shall  be  pleasing  to  the  Lord, 
and  tend  to  strengthen  and  to  edify  and  to  build  up  his  people.  I 
rejoice  in  the  latter-day  work,  and  for  the  privilege  of  being  a  mem- 
ber in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  It  has  always 
been  a  pleasure  to  me  to  bear  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  and 
of  the  divine  mission  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world  and  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  as  well  as  all  of  his  successors  in  the  presidency  of  the 
Church.  One  thing  I  have  appreciated  very  much  in  my  labors,  in  the 
Blackfoot  stake,  and  that  has  been  this:  During  the  years  that  have 
passed  since  I  was  appointed  to  preside  over  that  stake,  I  have  had  the 
privilege  of  entertaining  nearly  all  of  the  general  authorities  of  the 
Church,  at  times,  and  I  want  to  bear  testimony  to  the  character  of  the 
men  who  have  presided,  and  those  who  now  preside  over  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  Savior  said:  "By  their 
fruits  ye  shall  know  them,"  and  I  know  from  my  experience  with  these 
brethren,  coming  in  contact  with  them,  I  know  in  my  heart  that  they 
are  men  of  God,  and  that  they  have  brought  into  my  home  the  Spirit 
and  blessing  of  the  Almighty.  I  have  regarded  their  visits  to  my 
home  as  a  privilege  to  be  highly  esteemed,  both  by  myself  and  by  my 


ELDER  JAMES  DUCKWORTH 


37 


family.  I  have  learned,  or  ought  to  have  learned,  rather,  that  the  only 
safety  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  lies  in  keeping  the  counsel  of  those 
who  preside  over  this  Church.  Like  many  of  my  brethren,  I  have  not 
always  done  that  which  I  have  been  asked  to  do,  but  I  have  never 
known  them  to  give  counsel  except  that  which  was  right  and  which 
would  bring  the  blessings  of  God  the  eternal  Father.  That  has  been 
my  experience,  and  I  testify  of  this  in  regard  to  the  counsels  that  have 
been  given  by  these  brethren.  Every  principle  which  they  have  ad- 
vocated, every  word  of  counsel  which  they  have  given  in  the  Blackfoot 
stake,  has  been  good,  and  calculated  to  edify  and  build  up  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  there,  both  temporally  and  spiritually.  I  have  rejoiced  in 
my  labors  in  the  stakes.  There  is  nothing  that  I  like  in  this  world  better 
than  to  labor  as  a  missionary  in  this  Church,  in  an  effort  to  bring  souls 
to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  I  hope  that  as  long  as  I  shall  live  upon 
the  earth,  I  may  be  true  to  those  who  preside  over  this  Church,  to 
the  principles  of  life  and  salvation,  and  to  God  the  eternal  Father.  I 
bear  testimony  to  the  divinity  of  this  work,  that  it  is  of  God,  that  it 
is  not  of  men.  It  has  not  been  organized  of  men,  only  as  they  were 
directed  and  inspired  by  the  Almighty,  and  it  has  been  watched  over 
by  the  Father  from  the  beginning,  and  I  have  faith  that  it  will  con- 
tinue to  be  the  case  to  the  end,  that  this  is  God's  work,  and  that  he  will 
take  care  of  it ;  that  no  matter  what  we  may  hear  about  the  leaders  of 
the  Church  from  time  to  time,  we  may  have  an  abiding  assurance  that 
the  Lord  is  with  them,  that  he  is  guiding  them  and  the  destiny  of  this 
work.  May  the  Lord  help  us  to  be  true  to  him  and  to  his  work,  to  do 
all  that  may  be  asked  of  us,  by  those  who  shall  preside  over  us,  that  we 
may  spend  our  time  in  usefulness  and  therefore  in  happiness  while  we 
labor  here  in  mortality,  for  there  is  no  happiness  aside  from  doing  that 
which  is  right  and  just  in  the  sight  of  God.  Wickedness  never  was 
happiness.  Righteousness  always  was,  and  it  always  will  be.  May 
the  Lord  give  us  strength  to  be  true  to  the  end  of  our  days,  I  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  WILLIAM  L.  ADAMSON 

(President  of  the  Blain  Stake  of  Zion) 

I  am  indeed  grateful  to  my  heavenly  Father,  on  this  occasion,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  in  my  weakness  I  can  bear  my  testimony  unto 
you  that  I  know  God  lives,  that  I  know  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  in 
this  dispensation  a  prophet  of  God  has  been  raised  up  to  make  known 
unto  the  world  the  wonderful  truths  that  God  would  have  revealed  un- 
to his  people,  Israel.  I  thought  this  morning,  as  we  saw  our  beloved 
President  stand  before  us,  of  the  words  of  the  ancient  prophet,  wherein 
he  said :  "Where  there  is  no  vision  the  people  perish."  And  it  seems  to 
me  that  this  scripture  has  been  fulfilled  in  behalf  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  to  the  utmost,  because  from  the  moment  that  the  Father  and 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Son  appeared  unto  the  boy  Prophet,  and  that  glorious  vision  burst  up- 
on his  soul,  the  wonderful  power  of  vision  and  heavenly 
manifestation  has  been  constantly  before  this  people.  The 
wonderful  power  of  vision  that  the  Prophet  had  in  directing  and  estab- 
lishing this  work  and  in  leading  his  people  from  place  to  place  under 
such  trying  ordeals,  surely  must  demonstrate  to  the  world  be- 
yond all  question  of  doubt  as  well  as  to  this  people,  that  he 
was  indeed  a  mighty  prophet.  The  wonderful  vision  of  that  mighty 
prophet  Brigham  Young  as  he  started  on  his  journey  westward  over  a 
thousand  miles  of  trackless  waste, — the  faith  that  was  instilled 
within  his  soul  was  not  of  the  present,  but  of  the  future,  and  as  he 
saw  this  people  established  in  their  strength  and  in  their  might  in  the 
midst  of  these  Rocky  mountains,  what  was  the  thing  that  urged  him  on? 
That  vision  of  the  future  which  he  beheld,  that  he  knew  he  was  being 
led,  with  his  people,  by  Almighty  God.  When  he  stood  overlooking  this 
valley  and  saw  this  waste  of  wilderness,  and  he  said:  "This  is  the 
place,"  surely  it  was  the  vision  of  the  future  which  he  beheld  that  in- 
spired him  on,  to  bring  that  little  band  of  pilgrims  into  this  wonderful 
intermountain  country ;  and  each  of  our  leaders  in  turn,  each  with  his 
own  mission  and  his  own  particular  work  to  perform,  all  have  beheld 
and  made  known  to  the  people  the  wonderful  visions  of  the  future, 
which  they  have  seen.  I  wish  to  testify  that  I  know  that  our  leaders  are 
men  of  God,  that  their  time  and  their  energy  and  their  lives  are  dedi- 
cated to  the  work  and  to  the  welfare  and  well-being  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  May  God  give  us  strength  to  appreciate  their  worth  to  us  as 
a  people,  and  their  ability  to  lead  us  and  to  direct  us  as  God  would  have 
us  led  and  directed.  May  we  have  faith  to  follow  where  they  lead,  that 
we  may  all  be  led  safely  back  to  our  Father  and  our  God,  I  pray  in  his 
name.  Amen. 

ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

{President  of  the  Mexican  Mission) 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  the  privilege  this 
afternoon  of  bearing  my  testimony  to  you  relative  to  the  truthfulness 
of  the  gospel  as  it  has  been  restored  in  this  day  and  age  in  which  we 
live.  When  the  Savior  of  the  world  questioned  his  disciples  as  to  whom 
men  .said  that  he  was,  we  find,  after  various  answers  given  by  differ- 
ent ones,  that  Peter  answered  distinctly:  "Thou  art  the  Christ,  the 
Son  of  the  living  God."  He  was  informed  by  the  Master  that  flesh 
and  blood  had  not  revealed  this  unto  him,  but  that  his  Father  in  heaven 
had  revealed  to  him  this  great  truth.  The  Savior  speaking  to  Peter 
said :  "Upon  this  rock  I  will  build  my  Church,  and  the  gates  of  hell 
shall  not  prevail  against  it."  I  am  reminded  that  ninety-three  years 
ago  today,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  was  organized  and  established, 
and  from  that  beginning  has  been  built  upon  the  rock  of  revelation.  It 
is  marvelous  to  contemplate  the  structure.    It  is  marvelous  when  we 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


39 


contemplate  how  it  seems  that  the  very  gates  of  hell  have  been  arrayed 
against  this  work  from  the  day  of  its  inception,  that  in  no  way  or  de- 
gree have  they  prevailed  against  it.  My  mind  has  reverted  back  over 
the  history  of  the  Church  today,  and  it  seems  to  me  that  in  the  marvel- 
ous structure  that  has  been  built  upon  the  rock  of  revelation  not  one 
single  stone  has  been  misplaced,  neither  has  one  had  to  be  taken  down 
or  set  aside ;  and  the  structure  stands  today  as  a  testimony  that  it  is 
built  upon  the  rock  of  revelation.  More  than  ever  before  in  my  life 
there  has  been  borne  in  upon  my  soul  the  truth  of  this  fact  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  in  very  deed  a  Prophet  of  God.  I  bear  yon  my  wit- 
ness, brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  know  that  God  spoke  to  him.  He  ap- 
peared to  him  in  person,  and  our  Father  in  beaven  introduced  to  him  in 
this  age  in  which  we  live,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  his  Son,  wbo  died 
upon  the  cross,  who  had  in  himself,  as  the  Father  has,  life ;  and  he  took 
up  his  life,  even  after  he  was  crucified,  becoming  the  first  fruits  of  the 
resurrection.  I  testify  to  you  that  by  revelation  from  that  God  to  Jo- 
seph Smith  the  Church  has  been  established,  and  that  it  stands,  and  I 
bear  my  testimony  likewise  that  those  who  have  succeeded  in  the  presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  from  then  until  now,  are  prophets  of  the  Lord, 
inspired  by  him.    My  heart  and  my  soul  thrill  with  this  truth. 

I  wish  to  bear  to  you  my  testimony  also  concerning  that  great  vol- 
ume of  scripture  which  I  am  sometimes  led  to  believe  we  do  not  appre- 
ciate, namely  the  Book  of  Mormon,  which  is  a  record,  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  was  written  by  prophets  inspired  of  the  Lord,  and  it  came 
forth  in  this  day  and  age  in  which  we  live  by  the  inspiration  of  the 
Lord.  It  contains  the  truth  of  the  everlasting  gospel.  Not  one  single 
thing  recorded  in  that  geat  volume  has  ever  been  controverted  by  any 
discovery  of  any  nature  whatsoever  that  has  been  made  since  it  was 
brought  out  in  the  world.  It  has  been  my  good  fortune  to  travel  some- 
what in  fields  rich  in  archaeology,  in  this  country,  and  I  bear  you  my 
testimony  that  not  one  spade  of  earth  has  been  overturned  that  has  re- 
vealed a  single  thing  except  what  is  corroborative  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon and  its  being  a  divine  record. 

It  is  my  faith  and  prayer  that  this  work  will  go  on  to  triumph.  I 
know  that  it  will.  I  sense  and  realize,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  because 
of  the  work,  perhaps,  that  I  have  been  engaged  in  for  some  years,  that 
there  is  a  very  great  responsibility  resting  upon  the  people  of  this 
Church  to  bear  this  testimony  before  the  world.  We  sometimes  imag- 
ine that  we  have  warned  the  nations  of  the  world,  but  still  those  of  us 
intimately  engaged  in  the  missionary  work  know  that  there  are  thou- 
sands and  millions  of  people  who  have  not  yet  intelligently  come  in  con- 
tact with  these  great  truths,  and  the  responsibility  is  upon  us  of  carry- 
ing the  gospel  message  to  the  nations  of  the  earth,  for  the  Savior  of  the 
world  has  decreed  that  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached  in 
all  the  world  as  a  witness,  and  then  shall  the  end  come :  and  I  say  it 
shall  not  come  until  this  shall  have  been  an  accomplished  fact. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  this  responsibility  rests  upon  us.      In  our 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


homes  let  tis  breathe  the  missionary  spirit,  that  our  sons  and  daughters 
may  grow  up  with  a  realization  of  the  great  work  that  devolves  upon 
them.  Let  there  be  some  little  thought  toward  the  preparation  neces- 
sary, for  it  is  a  fact  that  a  great  deal  of  preparation  for  usefulness  is 
made  after  missionaries  come  into  the  missionary  field,  preparation  that 
might  well  have  been  made  in  our  homes,  at  our  firesides,  by  the  teach- 
ings of  the  fathers  and  the  mothers  to  their  children,  seconded,  of 
course,  by  the  work  of  the  great  auxiliary  organizations  which  are 
in  the  Church.  I  hope  that  in  the  future  as  we  grow  in  faith,  in  testi- 
mony and  in  the  knowledge  of  these  things,  we  will  grow  in  useful- 
ness and  in  preparation,  that  we  may  be  pillars  of  strength  wherever 
the  Lord  calls  us  to  labor,  and  that  we  will  bear  off  triumphantly,  so 
far  as  we  are  concerned,  this  greatest  of  all  great  works  in  the  world. 
May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  this  end  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  S.  NORMAN  LEE 

(President  of  the  Box  Elder  Stake  of  Zion) 

These  conference  proceedings,  up  to  this  time,  have  been  rather 
exciting  for  some  of  us.  That  has  been  the  case  with  me  ever  since  I 
discovered  that  the  President  was  calling  on  .speakers  in  the  alphabetical 
order  of  the  names  of  their  stakes. 

Brother  Duckworth  said  that  those  who  occupied  this  position 
knew  what  the  feeling  was.  I  might  add  that  only  those  who  have 
occupied  this  position  know  what  the  feeling  is,  surrounded  as  we 
are  by  men  whom  we  have  learned  to  revere,  men  in  whose  presence 
I  have  always  felt  very  humble,  men  whom  I  have  learned  to  love,  as  I 
have  come  to  know  them  better.  And  then  to  be  faced  with  such  a 
vast  audience !  I  am  thankful  indeed  that  the  faces  within  the  radius 
of  my  sight  are  all  friendly  faces.  That  is  very  comforting.  I  have 
faced  audiences  much  smaller  than  this,  but  more  formidable,  in  a 
sense,  in  that  many  of  them  were  unfriendly,  and  I  think  I  may  depend 
upon  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  offer  up  a  prayer  in  my  behalf 
that  I  may  get  through  this  experience  satisfactorily. 

It  is  difficult,  when  one  sits  down  to  consider  the  various  prin- 
ciples of  the  gospel,  to  determine  which  of  them  should  be  stressed, 
because  of  the  importance  of  so  many  of  the  principles  of  the  gospel. 
There  are  circumstances,  however,  that  bring  into  relief  some  of  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  more  than  others,  and  just  at  this  time  I  am 
concerned  very  much  with  the  financial  condition  of  our  people.  I 
am  lending  money  as  an  agent,  and  it  falls  to  my  lot  very  often  to 
urge  people  to  pay  up  their  interest.  T  have  quit  urging  them  to  pay 
on  the  principal,  because  that  does  not  happen  nowadays,  except  in  very 
isolated  cases;  but  I  do  urge  them  to  pay  up  their  interest,  and  keep 
their  loans  in  good  standing,  and  some  of  the  tales  that  are  brought  to 
me  are  really  heart-breaking.    One  of  the  brethren,  Brother  Austin  I 


ELDER  S.  NORMAN  LEE 


41 


think,  said  that  the  condition  of  the  people  in  Idaho  had  been  repre- 
sented to  be  worse  than  it  actually  is.  That  may  have  been  done  by 
people  who  came  in  contact  with  borrowers  who  were  not  able  to  pay 
up,  and  they  have  judged  the  entire  community  by  the  condition  of 
those  few.  Now,  jn  our  community,  which,  by  the  way,  I  think  is  in 
every  way  the  equal  of  the  Snake  River  valley  in  the  products  of  the 
soil,  or  in  other  ways,  we  have  a  great  many  people  who  are  not  able  to 
pay  their  debts.  They  did  not  hearken  to  the  counsel  of  the  servants 
of  the  Lord,  and  there  is  one  thing  that  stands  out  very  prominently 
I  think,  and  I  consider  that  item  almost  unconsciously  whenever  I  have 
occasion  to  deal  with  such  a  case.  I  am  referring  to  the  matter  of 
the  payment  of  tithes.  I  think  that  tithing  is  the  economic  law  of  sal- 
vation, or  is  the  law  of  economic  salvation  to  our  people.  I  don't  be- 
lieve that  Latter-day  Saints  can  expect  to  prosper  constantly  and  con- 
tinuously if  they  ignore  that  very  important  law.  It  is  a  combination 
of  material  things  and  spiritual  thing;  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  can- 
not do  without. 

A  few  days  ago  I  received  an  order  from  a  loan  company  to  pre- 
pare a  supplemental  abstract,  dated  from  the  time  that  a  certain  mort- 
gage was  filed  in  our  county,  down  to  the  present  time.  I  knew 
just  what  that  order  meant,  because  I  have  had  a  number  of  them.  It 
meant  that  they  were  preparing  foreclosure  proceedings.  I  got  in 
touch  with  the  man  before  I  executed  this  order  and  had  a  long  talk 
with  him,  and  he  told  me  of  his  troubles,  misfortune  in  business,  sick- 
ness in  his  family,  and  a  lot  of  troubles  of  that  nature.  Now,  it  happens 
that  I  audit  the  books  of  some  of  the  wards  of  our  stake  every  year, 
and  in  auditing  the  tithing  books  of  the  ward  where  this  man  lived  I 
discovered  that  while  he  had  paid  tithing  pretty  well  for  a  number  of 
years,  he  had  neglected  that  very  important  law  about  two  or  three 
years  ago.  In  other  words  in  1919  he  had  appeared  on  the  tithing 
books  for  the  last  time ;  and  when  I  asked  him  how  much  he  was  in 
arrears  with  his  interest  to  this  loan  company  he  said :  "A  little  over 
two  years."  "Well,  now,"  I  said,  "you  don't  seem  to  be  making  very 
good  progress  do  you?  What  do  you  think  the  future  holds  for  you?" 
"Well,  I  don't  know,"  he'-'said,  "I  am  at  a  loss  to  determine  whether 
I  shall  let  the  loan  company  take  this  farm  of  mine  or  whether  I  shall 
attempt  to  pay  anything  more  on  it."  I  spoke  to  him  then  and  said : 
"Why  did  you  quit  paying  tithing  two  or  three  years  ago  ?  You  see,  I 
know  your  record."  "Well,"  he  said,  "I  did  not  have  the  money  to 
pay  it  with."  I  asked  him  if  he  had  not  had  any  money  at  all,  if  he  had 
not  ever  received  any  money.  "Oh  yes,"  he  said,  "I  have  received 
money,  but  I  have  had  to  use  part  of  it  for  the  maintenance  of  my 
family,  and  there  have  been  a  dozen  people  hounding  me  all  the  time 
for  all  that  I  could  spare  out  of  it."  "Well,"  I  said,  "why  didn't  you 
pay  the  Lord  his  one-tenth  of  that  first?"  "Well,  because  the  other 
people  were  right  there  dunning  me  for  it,  and  the  Lord  wasn't." 
"Well  now,"  I  said  to  him,  "My  brother,  there  is  only  one  way  for  you 


42 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


to  get  out  of  this  trouble,  and  I  feel  safe  in  promising  you  that  if 
you  will  begin  at  this  time  and  pay  your  tithing,  absolutely  honestly, 
as  you  go  along,  and  every  time  that  means  or  substance  come  into 
your  hands,  you  will  be  rejuvenated,  you  will  see  your  way  out,  and 
ultimately  you  will  triumph."    He  said,  "I  think  I  will  try  it." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  entirely  safe  in  making  him  that 
sort  of  promise  I  know  that  if  he  is  honest  with  the  Lord  and  pays 
his  tithing  absolutely  honestly,  and  observes  to  keep  the  other  laws  of 
the  gospel  as  far  as  he  understands  them,  the  Lord  will  come  to 
his  help,  because  "man's  extremity  is  the  Lord's  opportunity." 

I  was  talking  to  a  man  in  this  fashion  not  so  long  ago  and  he  said : 
"Well  it  does  not  look  very  good  for  a  strong  man  to  repent  after  he 
has  got  in  debt  so  far  he  can't  wiggle.  It  does  not  look  very  good  for 
him  to  repent  when  he  is  compelled  to  do  it."  I  said  to  him :  "I  think 
it  is  a  whole  lot  better  to  repent  under  pressure  than  not  to  repent  at 
all."  Somebody  in  England  asked  me  regarding  the  Manifesto :  "Why 
was  it  that  President  Woodruff  would  not  receive  a  revelation  con- 
cerning the  matter  of  polygamy  and  issue  that  manifesto  until  the  laws 
of  the  land  were  bringing  such  pressure  to  bear  that  there  was  scarcely 
any  way  out  of  it?"  I  answered  him  in  this  way:  "I  don't  know  of 
any  time  when  a  revlation  is  more  needed  than  just  when  you  do  not 
know  what  to  do."  And  that  is  the  way  I  feel  about  these  things. 
Brethren,  if  you  have  neglected  your  duty  up  to  this  time,  and  you 
see  the  light  now,  and  you  are  inclined  to  repent  and  to  observe  this 
law,  I  think  that  I  can  promise  you  that  the  Lord  will  come  to  your 
rescue  and  that  you  will  be  delivered  from  the  hands  of  your  enemies 
as  yon  now  regard  them — those  who  are  trying  to  collect  money  from 
you.  I  feel  a  little  freer  in  talking  about  this  matter  in  the  presence 
of  my  brethren  here  on  the  stand  than  I  should  do  if  I  were  out  en- 
tirely on  my  own  responsibility,  because  if  I  make  some  statement  here 
that  is  not  wise,  or  is  in  error,  I  can  be  corrected  before  my  words 
have  clone  any  harm. 

May  the  Lord  bless  his  people  that  they  may  see  the  necessity  of 
rendering  more  zealous  devotion,  that  they  may  see  that  they  cannot 
prosper  without  observing  and  keeping  the  laws  of  the  land  as  made 
known  to  them.  It  is  a  blessing,  a  privilege,  and  it  is  a  pleasure  to  re- 
ceive commandments.  One  of  the  things  the  Lord  promised  the  people 
was  that  if  they  would  be  obedient  he  would  give  them  commandments 
not  a  few,  and  I  think  that  we  cannot  receive  them  and  disregard  them 
and  hope  to  prosper.  May  the  Lord  bless  us  all  together,  I  ask  it  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  letter  was  read  by  President  Grant  from  President  Heber  Q. 
Hale,  of  the  Boise  stake  of  Zion,  announcing  his  regrets  at  his  inability 
to  be  present  at  the  meeting  today 


ELDER  DAVID  R.  1  ANGLO  IS 


43 


ELDER  DAVID  R.  LANGLOIS 

(President  of  the  Burley  Stake  of  Zion) 

It  is  a  pleasure  to  be  present  at  this  conference.  I  have  enjoyed 
immensely  its  spirit.  I  love  to  work  in  the  Church.  I  don't  remember 
a  time  in  my  life  when  I  did  not  enjoy  laboring  in  the  work  of  the 
Lord.  I  don't  remember  a  time  in  my  life  when  I  did  not  have  a 
testimony  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Even  as  a  boy,  I  felt  as  strong 
in  my  testimony,  with  the  knowledge  that  I  had,  as  I  do  with  the  added 
knowledge  that  I  have  since  been  able  to  gain,  and  I  can  testify  to 
you  today  that  I  know  that  President  Grant,  and  all  the  brethren 
associated  with  him,  are  righteous  men,  men  whom  God  has  called  to 
preside  over  his  Church  here  on  the  earth,  and  men  whom  he  is  pleased 
to  recognize  as  the  directors  of  his  kingdom  here  on  earth.  When 
counsel,  advice  or  instruction  comes  from  them,  it  is  for  us  to  receive 
it  and  act  upon  it,  for  it  is  as  if  it  came  from  the  Lord  himself. 

I  was  much  impressed  at  our  conference  a  year  ago  by  the  remarks 
of  President  Grant  in  advising  our  people  to  raise  sugar  beets.  We 
were  so  much  impressed  on  that  occasion  that  we  went  home  from 
that  conference  and  did  all  in  our  power  to  get  our  people  to  follow  the 
advice  of  the  brethren,  so  that  we  were  successful  to  quite  an  extent 
in  increasing  our  acreage  of  sugar  beets,  not  nearly  to  the  extent  that 
we -should  have  been,  but  those  who  heeded  the  counsel  were  blessed. 
I  was  very  much  impressed  by  the  remarks  of  one  man  who  is  not  a 
member  of  the  Church,  but  when  the  instructions  were  given  by 
President  Grant  he  said:  "I  believe  that  your  leaders  are  looking  to 
the  interest  of  your  people,  and  I  think  that  1  will  follow  President 
Grant's  advice."  He  planted  twenty  acres  of  sugar  beets,  though  he  had 
not  intended  to  plant  any.  I  would  to  God  that  all  of  our  Saints  could 
have  that  same  faith  in  our  leaders.  Brethren  and  sisters,  we  will 
never  go  wrong  when  we  follow  their  advice. 

I  had  occasion  to  go  to  the  president  of  my  stake,  while  living  in 
Utah,  for  advice,  on  one  occasion,  and  when  he  gave  me  the  advice 
it  was  just  the  opposite  from  what  I  wanted,  and  I  want  to  tell  you 
it  was  a  test  of  my  faith  to  follow  his  advice.  It  was  when  I  moved  to 
Idaho,  and  he  said :  "Go.  and  the  Lord  bless  you.  We  have  bishops 
of  wards  and  presidents  of  stakes  all  over  that  country.  Now  you 
go  and  be  one  of  them."  I  never  dreamed  at  that  time  that  I  would  be 
one  of  them,  but  through  the  inspiration  that  came  to  him  as  an  officer 
in  this  Church,  he  saw  the  future,  and  it  was  not  long  after  that  until 
I  had  an  occasion  to  give  advice  myself.  I  was  but  a  boy,  young  in 
experience  in  the  Church.  I  was  called  to  preside  over  a  little  branch 
of  just  a  few  souls  in  the  locality  in  which  I  had  settled,  and  a  man 
came  to  me  and  said:  "Brother  Langlois,  I  have  come  to  you  for 
advice."  And  when  he  said  that,  it  frightened  me,  to  think  that  I 
would  have  to  give  him  advice.  I  feared  because  he  came  to  me  in 
my  official  capacity.    I  offered  a  prayer  to  the  Lord,  while  he  was 


44. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


relating  his  circumstances,  and  the  vision  of  that  man's  future  passed 
before  my  eyes.  I  saw  just  what  he  should  do  and  what  would  be  the 
result  if  he  did  as  I  told  him,  and  I  related  to  him  what  he  should  do 
and  promised  him  what  the  result  would  be.  I  also  saw  what  the  result 
would  be  if  he  disregarded  that  counsel.  I  told  him  that  if  he  did  the 
opposite,  he  would  lose  all  he  had  in  the  world.  He  went  home  and 
chose  to  do  the  very  thing  that  I  told  him  not  to  do.  It  was  not  three 
months  until  he  had  lost  everything  he  had  in  a  worldly  way,  and  be- 
cause of  that  loss  his  wife  became  dissatisfied  and,  taking  her  chil- 
dren, left  him  also,  so  that  he  had  lost  everything  that  he  had  but  the 
clothes  he  stood  in.  It  was  one  of  the  greatest  lessons  of  my  life.  I 
realized  more  fully  than  I  had  ever  realized  before,  that  when  we  go 
to  any  of  the  officers  of  this  Church  for  advice  that  it  is  as  if  God 
had  given  it.  We  should  not  go  unless  we  expect  to  follow  that 
advice. 

I  remember  when  Elder  Ilyrum  G.  Smith,  our  Presiding  Patri- 
arch, visited  our  stake.  I  think  it  was  Elder  Smith.  lie  told  our  peo- 
ple, though  they  had  lost  out,  to  remain  where  they  were,  not  to  move 
to  any  other  place,  that  conditions  were  just  as  good  there  as  any  other 
place,  but  to  get  a  new  footing  and  stay  where  they  were.  One  brother 
came  to  me  a  day  or  two  after  and  said:  "President  Langlois,  our 
visitor  has  upset  all  my  plans.  I  expected  to  leave  Burley  in  a  very 
short  time.  I  have  lost  my  place,  I  have  nothing  here  to  stay  for." 
He  said:  "What  shall  I  do?  Shall  I  follow  his  advice  and  stay  here," 
I  said :  "There  is  only  one  answer  that  I  could  give,  and  that  is  to  fol- 
low the  advice  that  has  been  given,  and  the  Lord  will  bless  you  if  you 
do."  He  said :  "I  will  take  his  advice."  He  went  home,  and  about 
three  or  four  months  later  he  came  back  to  me  and  told  me  how  things 
had  opened  up.  He  had  secured  another  place  on  very  favorable  terms, 
and  he  was  much  better  off  than  he  had  been  before  the  financial  crisis 
came.  The  place  he  had  secured  was  better  than  the  one  he  had  lost, 
and  he  did  not  owe  half  as  much  on  it  as  he  did  on  the  other  place 
when  he  purchased  it.  It  was  another  testimony  to  me  that  if  we  will 
follow  the  advice  and  counsel  of  the  authorities  we  will  never  go  wrong. 
May  the  peace  and  blessing  of  the  Lord  be  with  us  and  help  us  always 
to  follow  the  advice  and  counsel  that  are  given  to  us  from  our  breth- 
ren, I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

My  attention  has  been  called  to  the  fact  that  seventy  years  ago 
today  the  corner  stone  of  the  Salt  Lake  Temple  was  laid,  and  that  the 
Nauvoo  legion  was  called  out  under  the  direction  of  my  father  as 
Major-General. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Do  what  is  right." 
Elder  Edward  H.  Anderson,  clerk  of  the  Conference,  pronounced 
the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Saturday  morning. 


SECOND  DAY 


MORNING  SESSION 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  at  the  meeting  which  began  at 
10  o'clock  a.  tru,  Saturday,  April  7. 

He  announced  that  the  choir  and  congregation  would  sing,  "How 
firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the  Lord." 

Elder  George  H.  Brimhall,  president  emeritus  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University,  offered  the  opening  prayer,  after  the  singing. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Redeemer  of  Israel,  our  only 
delight." 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

I  have  rejoiced,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  thrilling  and  re- 
markable testimonies  that  have  been  borne  during  this  conference.  My 
testimony  has  been  strengthened.  I  shall  go  out  with  food  for  reflec- 
tion for  the  next  six  months  and  longer,  and  feel  to  rejoice  that  I  had 
the  privilege  of  hearing  the  address  of  our  President  and  the  testi- 
monies that  have  been  borne  at  the  two  meetings  that  we  have  had  of 
our  conference. 

HAPPY  IN  THE  KNOWLEDGE  OF  THE  GOSPEL 

I  am  always  happy  to  bear  my  testimony,  even  though  it  has  to  be 
done  under  the  difficult  sense  of  responsibility  that  rests  upon  every 
person  who  attempts  to  address  the  great  gathering  in  this  tabernacle 
on  these  great  occasions.  I  do  know  that  this  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  I  bear  witness  to  the  truth  of  the  testimonies  that  have  already 
been  borne,  and  wish  to  add  that  there  is  no  greater  joy  in  my  life 
than  that  which  conies  to  me  because  of  this  great  and  abounding 
knowledge. 

THE  "MORMON"  INSTITUTION  WORKS 

Many  thoughts  have  gone  through  my  mind,  as  through  yours, 
during  the  two  previous  sessions  of  our  conference.  I  have  been  re- 
minded especially  of  a  remark  made  to  me  just  a  week  ago  today  when 
I  happened  to  be  at  Jerome.  Idaho,  in  the  company  of  a  number  of  peo- 
ple who  were  not  of  our  faith.  One  man,  a  prominent  man  in  the 
county,  said  to  me:  "The  enemies  of  'Mormonism'  may  say  many 
things  about  your  faith,  but  is  seems  to  me  that  there  is  one 
thing  that  we  can  all  say  in  behalf  of  the  'Mormon'  people  and  the 
'Mormon'  institution, — that  it  works ;  it  works  successfully  in  behalf 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  mankind.  It  achieves  and  has  achieved  that  which  it  sets  out  to 
achieve."  This  remark  made  me  think  seriously  about  a  good  many 
things  pertaining  to  the  gospel,  for  it  seems  to  me  that  there  is  no 
higher  test  of  truth  than  that  an  organization  succeeds  in  doing 
that  for  which  men  establish  it  or  hold  it  in  honor.  In  fact,  I 
believe  one  of  the  great  modern  philosophies  is  based  entirely  upon 
I  he  principle  that  if  a  thing  works  in  behalf  of  its  cause,  if  a  sys- 
tem is  successful  in,  achieving  the  purposes  proposed,  there  must 
be  a  large  element  of  truth  in  that  system  and  in  such  attempts.  So 
one  of  the  proofs  of  the  truth  of  "Mormonism''  lies  in  the  fact  that 
during  the  long  period  of  its  existence,  approaching  a  hundred  years,  it 
has  successfully  been  able  to  bring  peace,  happiness,  joy  and  satisfac- 
tion into  human  lives,  into  the  lives  of  those  who  have  partaken  of  its 
blessings. 

A  SURVEY  OF  OUR  EDUCATIONAL  CONDITIONS 

This  question  of  "workability"  came  to  my  mind  yesterday  when  our 
President  gave  a  number  of  statistics  pertaining  to  the  present  condi- 
tion of  the  Church.  Most  of  my  time  during  the  last  few  months  has 
been  given  over  to  educational  work  in  connection  with  the  Church 
school  system.  When  the  President  gave  the  figures  as  to  the  number 
of  Latter-day  Saints  attending  college,  high  .school  and  elementary  school 
I  was  reminded  of  the  comparative  value  of  those  figures  as  another 
evidence  of  how  successfully  "Mormonism"  works  in  behalf  of  its  peo- 
ple. According  to  the  figures  given  by  President  Grant  yesterday,  we 
have  in  this  Church  8.6  young  people  attending  college  out  of  every 
thousand  members  of  the  Church;  whereas,  in  the  whole  United  States 
there  are  onlv  4.9  per  thousand  of  population  attending  college.  In 
this  Church  we  have  nearly  twice  as  many  college  students  per  capita 
as  in  the  country  at  large.  T  was  interested  also  in  the  high  school 
figures.  Accord'ng  to  the  figures  given  us  yesterday,  there  are  60.6 
individuals  per  thousand  attending  high  school  in  this  Church  ;  whereas, 
in  the  United  States  as  a  wdiole,  there  are  only  20.8.  That  is.  nearly 
three  times  as  many  young  people  are  attending  h'  gh  school  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Patter-day  Saints  as  are  attending  high 
school,  on  the  average,  in  this  great  land  of  ours.  In  the  elementary 
schools,  the  difference  is  not  so  great,  for  in  our  Church  there  are 
223.3  students  out  of  each  thousand  of  membership,  attending  the  ele- 
men'ary  schools,  as  against  204  in  the  country  at  large.  Nevertheless, 
this  is  also  a  substantial  increase,  though  not  so  great,  because  of  the 
fact  that  elementary  education  is  usually  required  by  law  in  the  states 
of  the  Union;  but  as  soon  as  the  h;gh  school  and  the  college  periods 
are  reached,  where  men's  free  agency  above  and  beyond  the  obliga- 
tions of  the  law  is  manifested,  then  at  once  this  great  Church  leaps 
forward  far  beyond  the  average  of  the  people  of  this  country.  T  have 
no  doubt  that  there  may  be  other  communities  in  the  United  States 
with  probably  nearly  as  high  a  college  and  high  school  attendance,  but  I 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


47 


doubt  whether  any  survey  that  may  he  made  will  show  a  higher  attend- 
ance of  college  and  high  school  students. 

I  call  your  attention  to  this  not  merely  because  of  the  inter- 
est it  always  awakens  in  us  to  find  that  we  are  standing  high  in  the 
desirable  activities  of  the  world,  but  because  it  shows  how  "Mormonism" 
functions  in  the  life  of  humanity,  how  thoroughly  it  works.  Edu- 
cation is  placed  as  one  of  the  great  and  foremost  activities  of  a  civilized 
world ;  and  here  a  despised,  and  sometimes  more  than  despised  people, 
makes  a  survey  of  its  educational  conditions  and  finds  that  the  spirit 
of  education  is  stronger  within  this  group  of  people  than  in  any  other, 
perhaps,  throughout  the  country,  ar.d  stronger  than  the  average  within 
the  country  as  a  whole.  Another  evidence,  another  test  of  the  truth  of 
"Mormonism." 

CAUSES  OF  THE  VITALITY  OF  "MORMONISM" 

Many  people  have  asked  how  it  is  that  "Mormonism''  so  func- 
tions ;  how  it  is  able  to  work  in  such  a  fashion  in  behalf  of  hu- 
manity; because  I  might  take  anything  else,  any  other  activity,  sound 
and  good  and  designed  for  the  welfare  of  the  human  race,  and  show 
practically  the  same  cond'tions  that  apply  to  the  course  and  the  cause 
of  education.  One  man  will  declare  that  the  reason  why  these 
things  are  so  in  "Mormonism"  is  merely  because  by  some  accidental 
condition,  great  men  have  arisen  in  "Mormondom."  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  tremendously  great  character:  every  student,  whether 
of  our  people  or  not.  will  admit  the  greatness  of  the  man.  And  so, 
those  who  do  not  understand  us  will  say  we  had  a  great  man  to 
found  our  Church  and  that  explains  how  we  are  able  to  show  a  con- 
dition so  favorable.  Another  will  say  that  P>righam  Young  was  such 
a  great  man.  And  so,  as  I  read  recently  in.  a  book  not  long  since  pub- 
lished, all  "Mormon'snY'  may  be  explained  because  of  the  great  men 
that  "Mormonism"  has  had.  Another  book  declares  that  the  reason 
why  this  test  of  truth,  this  test  of  fitness  to  human  conditions,  meas- 
ures up  as  well  as  it  does,  is  because  "Mormonism"  has  been  placed 
under  very  difficult  conditions.  It  had  to  fight  its  way  in  Missouri. 
It  had  to  fight  its  way  out  here  in  the  desert.  It  has  been  opposed  by 
men,  and  as  a  consequence  it  has  been  able,  through  opposition,  to 
develop  into  the  great  institution  that  it  is  today. 

Any  such  explanation,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  insufficient  to 
those  of  us  who  have  understood  the  spirit  of  the  remarks  that  have 
been  made  at  ibis  conference.  There  are  in  this  Church  great  funda- 
mental principles,  and  reflected  from  those  principles  are  great  fun- 
damental practices.  The  possession  of  these  principles,  the  use  of  these 
practices,  lie  at  the  foundation  of  any  explanation  of  the  vitality  and  the 
strength  and  the  fitness  of  "Mormonism"  to  serve  the  human  race; 
and  that  is  my  testimony  to  you,  as  I  understand  this  great  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


SOME  GREAT  PRACTICES  AND  PRINCIPLES 

President  Grant  spoke  of  some  of  these  great  practices,  in  his 
address  yesterday.  He  called  our  attention  to  the  soil,  to  the  home, 
to  the  advantage  of  placing  the  family  unit  in  the  open  country,  to  deal 
with  nature  and  the  problems  of  the  soil,  and  he  laid  it  down  to  all  of 
us  who  care  to  follow  him,  as  a  fundamental  practice  in  the  build- 
ing of  this  Church.  This  Church  cannot  get  very  far  along  unless 
it  does  adhere  to  these  fundamental  principles  and  practices,  such  as 
were  outlined  to  us  yesterday.  As  to  the  soil  and  its  products  and 
life  on  the  soil  and  life  under  the  open  sky,  and  the  life  of  contest, 
not  with  men  so  much  as  with  nature,  with  the  soil,  with  the  water  we 
put  on  the  soil,  with  the  air,  the  sunshine,  and  with  the  various  condi- 
tions of  agriculture  ;  out  of  such  contacts  and  out  of  such  contests  comes 
the  great  strength  that  we  need  in  the  building  of  our  world.  "Mor- 
monism"  is  full  of  just  such  principles  and  such  practices.  The 
safe  road  is  to  be  trodden  by  those  who  understand  these  practices, 
who  attempt  to  live  them,  and  to  use  them  in  their  daily  lives  as  eternal 
reflections  of  fundamental  principles  of  the  gospel. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  it  is  easy,  if  one  will  but  humble 
himself  and  keep  near  to  God  in  prayer  and  in  service,  to  understand 
these  great  fundamental  world-shaping  principles  of'  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  almost  as  easy  to  practice  them. 

A    GREAT    REBUKE    OF  DOUBT 

Today  and  yesterday  have  seemed  to  me,  in  this  tabernacle,  to  be 
a  great  rebuke  of  doubt.  I  am  speaking  just  now  before  one  of  the 
amplifiers,  and  if  I  am  speaking  into  this  concave  device  properly. 
I  imagine  that  my  voice  is  carried  much  better  than  it  ordinarily 
is,  into  the  remote  parts  of  this  building,  and  possibly  into  the  As- 
sembly Hall.  It  is  a  tremendous  advance,  a  tremendous  rebuke  to 
those  of  my  day,  unbelievers  in  God,  who  have  said  to  me:  "What 
is  the  use  of  praying?  God  cannot  hear.  Your  voice  merely  stirs  waves 
in  the  air,  and  God  is  so  far  away  that  the  waves  disappear  and  can- 
not reach  Divinity.  You  are  wasting  your  time."  Yet  today  we  have 
these  great  amplifiers  under  the  stand,  that  T  looked  at  yesterday, 
by  which  these  waves  are  taken  out  of  the  air,  thrown  into  some  other 
medium,  and  carried  on  again  into  the  air  until  the  voice  is  spread 
'broadcast  over  the  earth,  if  we  so  desire.  I  know,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  the  main  concern  of  man  is  to  make  of  himself,  by 
righteous  living  and  by  proper  attempt,  day  by  day,  by  doing  that  which 
he  knows  to  be  right,  a  great  amplifier  by  which  he  may  understand 
the  whisperings  of  the  Holy  Spirit  of  God.  I  pray  that  every  one  of 
us  may  be  given  such  strength,  may  be  given  such  will  and  such 
opportunity  as  to  make  ourselves  clear  instruments  for  the  discovery 
of  the  great  truth  that  God  has  in  store  for  all  of  us ;  and  I  bear  you 
again  my  testimony  that  this  is  the  truth,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  H.  MENDENHALL  49 


ELDER  WILLIAM  H.  MENDENHALL 

(President  of  the  Bannock  Stake  of  Zion) 

It  seems  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  President  proceeds 
on  the  theory,  "If  at  first  you  don't  succeed,  try,  try  again."  It  was 
not  my  privilege  to  be  present  at  the  conference  meetings  yesterday. 
Some  of  my  friends  have  told  me  that  the  first  day  of  conference  I 
was  called  for  twice. 

I  rejoice  in  being  present  at  this  conference.  I  endorse  all  that 
has  been  said.  I  endorse  the  remarks,  the  instructions,  and  the  dis- 
course of  the  President  of  the  Church  yesterday,  while  I  d5,d  not 
have  the  privilege  of  hearing  them.  For  twenty  years  I  have  been 
connected  with  the  presiding  authorities  of  this  Church,  acting  in  the 
capacity  of  one  of  the  presidency  of  the  Bannock  stake  of  Zion,  and 
in  those  twenty  years  I  have  learned  that  the  presiding  authorities 
in  this  Church  are  men  of  God.  who  are  inspired  of  the  Lord  to  direct 
its  affairs  in  all  the  world.  And  so  I  have  no  hesitancy,  while  I  did  not 
hear  the  brethren,  in  declaring  to  you  that  what  they  said  was  the  word 
of  the  Lord  unto  this  people. 

I  represent  twenty-five  hundred  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  south- 
eastern part  of  Idaho  known  as  the  Bannock  stake  of  Zion.  Ours  is  a 
farming  and  stock-raising  community.  While  during  these  few  years 
of  hard  times  our  people  have  been  severely  "strapped"  financially,  some 
of  them,  yet  they  maintain  the  faith  of  the  gospel,  a  desire  to  serve  the 
Lord  and  to  keep  his  commandments ;  and  I  believe,  in  the  main,  the 
people  of  our  stake  have  endeavored  to  carry  out  the  instructions  that 
have  come  to  them  from  the  general  authorities  of  the  Church  in  the 
years  past — to  keep  out  of  debt ;  and  therefore,  I  feel  that  the  people 
of  Bannock  stake  will  eventually  survive  this  financial  difficulty  and 
things  will  be  normal  again. 

In  the  beginning  of  the  organization  of  this  Church,  Joseph  Smith, 
Sr.,  the  father  of  the  Prophet,  accepting  the  testimony  and  the  mission 
of  Jesus  Christ,  inquired  what  he  might  do  to  further  the  work.  The 
Lord,  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet,  gave  the  revelation 
contained  in  the  fourth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  be- 
ginning with  this  sentence :  "Now  behold,  a  marvelous  work  is  about 
to  come  forth  among  the  children  of  men."  Dr.  Widtsoe,  in  his  dis- 
course this  morning,  has  pointed  out  to  us  some  of  the  marvels  of  this 
great  latter-day  work  as  it  pertains  to  education,  the  training  of  the 
youth  of  Zion,  and  the  establishment  of  truth  and  righteousness,  in- 
formation and  knowledge  in  the  hearts  of  the  young  people  of  the 
Church. 

The  Lord  further  says :  "O  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God, 
see  that  ye  serve  him  with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength, 
(hat  ye  may  stand  blameless  before  God  at  the  last  day." 

I  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  revelation  applies  to 
us.   The  Lord  requires  that  we  shall  give  our  whole  soul,  our  whole  ef- 


50 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


fort  and  our  energy,  for  the  development  and  growth  and  the  spread 
of  this  work  in  the  earth  among  the  children  of  men. 

i 
l 

"Therefore,"  lie  says,  "if  ye  have  desires  to  serve  God  ye  are  called  to 
the  work; 

"For  behold  the  field  is  white  already  to  harvest;  and  lo,  he  that  thrust- 
eth  in  his  sickle  with  his  might  the  same  layeth  up  in  store  that  he  perish 
not,  but  bringeth  salvation  to  his  soul." 

Then  he  goes  on  to  enumerate  the  qualifications  that  men  should 
possess  who  are  called  upon  to  labor  and  to  minister  in  this  Church : — 

"And  faith,  hope,  charity  and  love,  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of 
God,  qualify  him  for  the  work. 

"Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  temperance,  patience,  brotherly  kind- 
ness, godliness,  charity,  humility,  diligence. 

"Ask  and  ye  shall  receive ;  knock,  and  it  shall  be  opened  unto  you." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  commend  this  revelation  of  the  Lord 
1o  the  Latter-day  Saints  everywhere.  Let  us  read  it.  Let  us  study  it. 
Let  us  become  acquainted  with  it,  that  we  may  be  equal  to  the  duties 
and  obligations  that  devolve  upon  us  from  time  to  time  in  the  de- 
velopment and  growth  and  onward  progress  of  this  great  and  marvel- 
ous work  of  the  Lord.  . 

1  bear  you  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  know 
the  gospel  is  true.  I  know  that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ. 
I  know  that  the  President  of  tins  Church,  President  Heber  J.  Grant, 
has  been  called  by  inspiration  lo  lead  this  people,  and  direct  the  af- 
fairs of  this  work,  and  that  his  counselors  and  the  quorum  of  the  apos- 
tles and  the  brethren  who  constitute  the  general  authorities  of  the 
Church  are  endowed  w'th  power  from  on  high,  and  have  the  ngt  t 
to  give  to  the  members  of  this  Church  counsel,  advice,  instruction,  rev- 
elation and  admonition  for  the  upbuilding  and  the  strengthening  of  the 
s'akes  of  Zion  and  the  people  everywhere.  May  the  Lord  bless  us, 
help  us  to  do  our  duty  and  serve  him  and  keep  his  commandments,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  CARDON 

(President  of  the  Cache  Stake  of  Zion) 

1  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  spirit  of  this  conference, 
and  I  feel  that  its  influence  will  be  felt  throughout  all  the  stakes  of 
Zion. 

This  is  a  glorious  work  in  which  we  are  engaged,  and  the  many 
opportunities  that  come  to  us  from  time  to  time  should  qualify  us  for 
the  great  work  that  rests  upon  us  as  Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  often 
asked,  as  no  doubt  many  of  you  are:  "What  is  the  best  news?"  And 
my  answer  invariably  is:  "Zion  is  grow'ng."  I  cannot  give  any  better 
news  than  this  truth ;  and  I  believe  my  statement  is  verified  in  the  sta- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  CARDON 


51 


tistics  which  were  read  yesterday  by  our  President.  I  believe  that  this 
work  will  continue  to  grow  and  increase  in  the  earth  until  it  shall  have 
filled  its  glorious  destiny.  I  believe  that  today  its  influence  and  power 
is  being  felt  throughout  all  the  civilized  nations  of  the  earth.  The 
Lord  is  raising  up  great  men  and  women  not  of  our  faith  who  are  do- 
ing much  in  spreading  the  glad  tidings  of  great  joy,  by  bringing  down 
the  prejudice  of  the  peoples  of  the  world  ;  and  i  am  grateful  to  say 
that  never  before  in  the  history  of  this  people  was  there  a  better  feel- 
ing among  the  children  of  men  than  at  the  present  time.  I  believe 
that  this  condition  will  continue  to  grow,  for  the  light  which  came  into 
the  world  over  a  hundred  years  ago  has  constantly  increased  and  it 
will  do  so  until  its  power  and  its  influence  shall  be  felt  among  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth. 

I  regret  to  say,  however,  that  there  seems  to  be  a  tendency  on  the 
part  of  the  Christian  believing  peoples  in  the  world  to  discredit  the 
divine  and  holy  mission  of  our  blessed  Redeemer,  and  we  should  be 
all  the  more  constantly  engaged  in  bearing  our  testimonies  to  the  peo- 
ple of  his  divine  and  glorious  mission.  We  know  that  he  is  the  Son 
of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  that  it  is  his  mission  to  re- 
deem the  world  from  the  Fall,  and  to  bring  us  back  into  the  presence 
of  God,  our  eternal  Father. 

The  world  sat  in  darkness  prior  to  the  coming  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  and  his  testimony  to  the  world  has  constantly  grown 
until  thousands  and  hundreds  of  thousands  of  people  can  testify,  as  he 
testified,  that  they  know  that  Jesus  Christ,  is  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world.  The  Holy  Spirit,  the  Holy  Ghost,  has  borne  witness  to  our 
souls  that  this  is  the  condition,  that  this  is  the  truth,  and  I  hope  that 
this  truth  will  never  diminish  in  the;  hearts  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  It  is  my  desire  that  we  shall  continue  to  bear  this  testimony  unto 
the  peoples  of  the  world  until  they,  too,  shall  be  brought  to  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth.  This  testimony  came  to  this  boy  prophet  when  he 
went  and  prayed  unto  the  Lord  to  show  him  which  of  all  the  religious 
denominations  then  extant  in  the  world  was  the  right  one  ;  and  as  he 
went  and  bowed  humbly  before  his  heavenly  Father,  the  glorious  vision 
that  we  have  been  so  imbued  with  all  our  lives  was  presented  unto 
him,  and  the  Father  and  the  Son  appeared  unto  this  young  boy;  and 
the  One  pointing  to  the  Other,  said :  "This  is  my  beloved  Son.  _Hear 
him."  And  then  this  young  boy  carrie  i  on  a  conversation  with  these 
heavenly  Beings,  and  again  there  was  revealed  unto  the  children  of 
men  the  divine  truth  of  the  existence  of  the  Father  and  the  Son 
and  the  divine  truth  of  their  personality.  As  we  entered  into  the  waters 
of  baptism  and  had  hands  laid  upon  us  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghbst, 
in  the  own  due  time  of  the  Lord,  we  also  were  able  to  testify  unto  the 
world  that  we  know  that  Cod  lives  and  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world.  We  have  been  given  that  testimony,  not  by  flesh 
and  blood,  notwithstanding  the  devotion  and  the  faith  of  our  parents, 
but  this  truth  was  given  unto  us  by  the  revelation  of  Almighty  God 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


through  the  testimony  and  witness  of  the  Spirit,  who  is  the  witness  of 
the  Father  and  the  Son  unto  the  children  of  men.  I  am  grateful  today 
that  1  can  bear  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  this  testimony,  for  I 
do  know:  that  God  lives  and  that  he  is  overruling  for  good  the  destinies 
of  the  children  of  men,  and  the  events  that  are  transpiring  in  the 
world  today  for  the  consummation  of  his  glorious  purposes.  I  know 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  in  very  deed  the  Only  Begotten  Son  of  the  Father, 
and  that  his  mission  is  divine  among  the  children  of  men ;  and  it  is  my 
desire  that  this  testimony  may  increase  in  my  soul  all  the  days  of  my  life 
and  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  will  never  allow  to  creep  into  their 
hearts  the  spirit  that  is  being  manifested  today  among  some  of  the 
peoples  of  the  world  that  Christ  was  not  a  divine  character,  that  his 
mission  is  not  divine ;  notwithstanding  that,  they  will  testify  that  he  was 
one  of  the  great  characters  of  the  history  of  the  world. 

I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living 
God,  and  that  his  mission  in  the  world  is  being  felt  for  good  among 
the  children  of  men.  I  pray  that  the  spirit  of  this  mission  may  con- 
tinue to  grow  in  the  world  until  the  people  of  the  world  may  have  a 
similar  testimony  to  our  own.  I  know  that  his  successors  in  the  presi- 
dency of  this  Church  are  prophets  of  the  true  and  the  living  God,  and 
that  they  have  directed  the  affairs  of  this  Church  as  the  Lord  would 
have  them  do  ;  and  they  have  been  sustained  in  their  high  and  holy 
callings  by  the  masses  of  the  Latter-day  Saints ;  and  I  believe  that  today 
a  splendid  condition  exists  among  the  Latter-day  Saints.  While  there 
is  much  room  for  improvement,  yet  the  people's  faith  is  growing  and 
increasing  in  the  stakes  of  Zion.  I  pray  that  this  may  continue 
to  grow  until  we  shall  be  able  to  accomplish  the  high  and  holy  call- 
ings to  which  we  have  been  called,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  solo  entitled,  "The  Voice  in  the  Wilderness"  was  sung  by  Sis- 
ter R.  G.  Clark. 

ELDER  ARTHUR  W.  HORSLEY 

{President  of  the  Carbon  Stake  of  Zion) 

I  am  very  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  opportunity 
I  have  in  attending  this  conference.  I,  like  many  others  who  have 
spoken  during  this  conference,  have  been  coming  to  conference  for 
over  thirty  years.  I  was  just  reflecting  upon  the  past,  and  I  believe 
I  am  safe  in  saying  that  I  have  not  missed  a  semi-annual  or  an  an- 
nual conference  for  twenty-five  years.  I  did  not  expect  to  enjoy  the 
privilege  that  I  enjoy  at  the  present  time,  and  I  believe  I  can  go  home 
and  safely  say  to  the  people  that  this  has  been  one  of  the  best  confer- 
ences that  I  have  ever  attended,  and  when  they  ask  me  who  spoke,  I 
can  say :   "I  was  one  of  them." 

I  am  very  grateful  to  my  heavenly  Father  that  the  gospel  was 
carried  to  my  native  land,  and  that  my  grandparents  and  my  parents 


ELDER  ARTHUR  IV.  HORSLEY 


S3 


accepted  of  it,  and  that  they  were  among  that  class  which  Christ  spoke 
of  when  he  said:  "My  sheep  know  my  voice,  and  a  stranger  they 
will  not  follow."  I  am  very  grateful  that  I  have  a  name  and  stand- 
ing in  this  Church,  and  that  I  am,  thus  far,  in  harmony  with  the 
authorities  thereof  and  in  tune  with  the  body  of  the  Church.  I  am 
grateful  for  the  blessings  we  enjoy  at  home  and  abroad,  and  I  am 
grateful  for  the  opportunities  we  have  in  life. 

I  have  the  honor  of  presiding  over  the  blackest  stake  in  the 
Church,  the  Carbon  stake,  in  which,  when  the  mines  are  operating, 
about  15,000  tons  of  coal  per  day  are  produced ;  and  while  we  are  a  mixed 
community,  having  farmers  and  miners,  and  those  who  do  not  be- 
long to  the  Church  among  us,  nevertheless,  we  have  one  of  the  'best 
communities  that  exists  in  the  Church.  We  have  men  who  go  down 
into  the  bowels  of  the  earth  for  a  livelihood,  giving  honest  labor  for 
that  which  they  receive,  and  I  notice  that  their  hearts  are  right  and  their 
blood  is  red.  They  are  serving  the  Lord  and  keeping  his  command- 
ments. 

I  rejoiced  when  I  heard  the  remarks  of  President  Grant  yester- 
day morning,  advising  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  be  economical  and  to 
be  saving  and  not  waste  their  means.  It  is  very  good  advice  for  all  of 
us,  no  matter  where  we  live.  We  are  traveling  fast  nowadays  in 
automobiles,  and  we  are  living  fast,  and  we  purchase  things  that  we 
could  get  along  without. 

I  was  very  much  impressed  yesterday  when  I  heard  President 
Croft  speak  to  us,  when  he  spoke  of  the  faith  that  is  among  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  and  how  they  are  healed,  even  without  much  medi- 
cine. I  thought  of  the  days  when  we  had  no  medicine  nor  doctors.  I 
thought  of  the  days  when  the  boys  and  the  girls  were  reared  upon  the 
farm  and  were  fed  bread  and  milk,  cornmeal  mush,  and  milk  gravy 
and  potatoes,  and  that  was  about  all,  save  a  few  chickens  and  eggs. 
They  were  thrifty  people,  and  they  were  almost  appendicitis-proof. 
I  believe  that  what  we  need  to  do  is  to  get  back  to  the  first  principles 
and  to  use  more  milk,  use  more  butter,  more  cheese,  and  a  little  common 
sense.  I  believe  that  then  we  will  be  in  tune  with  the  body  of  the  Church 
and  we  will  be  benefited  financially. 

While  speaking  of  the  men  who  go  down  into  the  bowels  of  the 
earth  for  a  livelihood,  I  might  add  that  we  have  many  of  our  young 
men  who  do  this  kind  of  work  and  save  their  money.  They  walk  up 
to  the  bishop,  when  they  get  their  check,  and  pay  their  tithing  on  the 
entire  check,  whatever  it  may  be,  and  they  are  saving  the  balance  of 
their  money  to  go  upon  missions  and  some  have  done  this  and  are 
doing  it,  and  they  are  feeling  well  and  are  spending  their  time  and 
money  in  the  service  of  the  Lord.  I  tell  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
fathers  and  mothers  in  Israel — that  is  one  of  the  greatest  blessings  that 
can  come  to  parents,  to  have  their  boy  in  the  mission-field  preaching 
the  gospel.  We  heard  yesterday  the  amount  of  money  that  it  takes  to 
preach  the  gospel,  but  I  tell  you  that  the  dividend  is  worth  living  for. 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

I 

In  my  travels  from  place  to  place  and  visiting  in  the  homes  of  the 
Saints  and  among  those  who  have  fathers  or  sons  upon  missions,  I 
have  the  opportunity  of  reading  many  of  their  letters.  It  seems  to  me 
that  the  boys  write  more  to  mother  than  they  do  to  any  one  else  of  the 
family.  And  the  mother  takes  delight  in  bringing  out  the  letter  and 
showing  it  and  having  you  read  it  and  see  what  the  .boy  is  doing  and 
what  he  is  saying. 

I  was  forcibly  struck  with  one  letter  that  I  read,  wherein  the  boy 
was  out  preaching  the  gospel  wi'hout  purse  or  scrip,  down  in  New 
Jersey — Campden  and  Plainfield,  in  that  part  of  the  country.  He  said 
they  could  get  no  shelter ;  they  had  no  breakfast ;  they  had  no  dinner, 
no  supper.  They  had  slept  in  a  little  barn.  They  had  been  turned 
away  forty  times  during  the  day  and  evening  when  they  were  can- 
vassing. The  people  would  telephone  from  one  place  to  another  "The 
'Mormons'  are  in  town."  He  said :  "We  had  nothing  to  eat.  We 
were  getting  desperately  hungry,  and  all  we  had  was  a  Book  of  Mor- 
mon or  two  to  sell  and  we  could  not  sell  them.  What  could  we  do?" 
Said  he,  "We  decided  to  go  to  one  side  and  pray  to  God.  We  had 
read  in  the  scriptures  where  it  says  'the  laborer  is  worthy  of  his  hire.'  " 
So  they  prayed  unto  the  Lord.  And  the  boy  said :  "After  we  had  got 
up  and  prayed  that  morning,  we  went  a  short  distance,  where  we  met 
a  little  man  who  could  not  speak  the  English  language."  By  the  way, 
he  was  a  German.  lie  had  a  little  boy  by  his  side,  and  through  the 
boy  he  talked,  the  boy  acting  as  interpreter.  This  man  said  to  these 
two  young  "Mormon"  elders:  "Come  with  me;  I  want  to  speak  to 
you.  Come  to  my  home,  I  want  to  feed  you  and  I  want  to  give  you  a 
place  to  rest."  So  they  went  and  enjoyed  the  hospitality  of  the  good 
man.  And  in  the  letter  the  boy  said:  "Mother,  I  know  God  heard  our 
prayers." 

There  is  the  dividend  that  comes  to  the  Latter-day  Saints — when 
they  get  a  dividend  of  that  kind,  when  the  boy  writes  home  and  says : 
"Mother,  I  know  God  heard  my  prayers."  He  doesn't  get  that  testi- 
mony with  a  pocket  full  of  money.  He  doesn't  get  that  testimony 
working  around.  No,  but  when  he  is  so  humble  that  he  has  to  go  to 
God,  his  eternal  Lather  and  seek  relief  and  depend  upon  him ;  then  it 
is  that  he  gets  a  testimony  of  the  gospel.  So,  the  boys  who  go  upon 
these  missions  are  not  only  beneficiar'es  to  those  who  are  in  the  world, 
but  they  are  beneficiaries  to  themselves  and  to  their  posterity ;  and  I 
know  that  we  cannot  spend  any  money  to  any  better  advantage  than 
to  spend  it  for  the  boys  going  upon  missions,  and  going  to  the  Church 
schools,  where  they  can  learn  and  be  taught  the  principles  of  life  and 
salvation.  I  do  not  expect  to  die  a  rich  man.  I  would  rather  spend 
every  dollar  I  have  in  giving  the  boy  or  the  girl  a  reasonable  educa- 
tion and  helping  them  to  fulfil  missions  in  the  nations  of  the  earth. 
That  is  the  way  I  feel  about  it. 

I  am  always  pleased  when  I  hear  the  .brethren  bearing  testimony 
of  the  goodness  of  the  Lord  to  them,  and  that  the  power  of  God  is 


ELDER  ARTHUR  W.  HORSLEY 


55 


in  the  earth  today,  and  that  the  sick  are  healed.  I  am  glad  for  these 
thing's,  because  I  have  received  the  blessings  under  the  hands  of  the 
servants  of  the  Lord  myself,  and  I  tell  you  I  have  faith  in  the  gospel, 
or  I  would  not  be  here.  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  gospel,  because  I 
know  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  I  am  satisfied,  and  I  am 
•  satisfied  if  the  Lord  will  help  me,  to  remain  the  rest  of  my  days  if  pos- 
sible with  the  body  of  the  Church,  that  I  may  be  able  to  listen  to  the 
dictations  of  the  Holy  Spirit  that  are  given  to  us  from  time  to  time. 
I  want  to  bear  you  my  testimony  that  no  man  can  get  up  and  truth- 
fully say  that,  by  taking  counsel  from  the  authorities  of  the  Church, 
he  has  ever  lost  anything.  I  have  faith  in  the  authorities  of  this 
Church.  I  have  faith  in  them  that  when  they  tell  me  to  plant  beets  I 
plant  beets,  and  I  do  not  plant  potatoes.  I  have  faith  in  them 
(hat  when  they  tell  me  to  go  to  some  place  I  am  willing  to  go. 
That  is  why  I  went  to  Price,  where  I  live,  because  I  was  told  to  go 
there  by  President  Day,  who  at  that  time  was  the  President  of  the 
Parowan  stake  of  Zion.  He  said :  "Go  there  and  stay  and  grow  with 
the  community."  I  took  his  advice  and  I  have  never  regretted  it,  and 
I  have  never  felt  as  if  I  wanted  to  go  away  from  that  locality,  because 
I  am  where  the  servant  of  the  Lord  said  for  me  to  go,  and  that  is 
where  we  should  be. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  prophets,  seers  and  revela- 
tor.s  in  the  Church  today,  and  I  am  always  willing  to  listen  to  the  living 
oracles  of  God. 

I  hear  my  testimony  to  you  that  I  know  that  God  lives  and  hears 
and  answers  the  prayers  of  this  people.  I  know  that  the  brethren, 
down  to  the  last  ordained  as  prophets,  seers  and  revelators,  in  this 
Church,  are  ordained  of  God.  I  know  that  President  Grant  is  the  right 
man  in  the  right  place.  It  was  made  known  to  me  when  he  was  sus- 
tained as  the  President  of  this  Church.  I  saw  in  him  when  he  arose 
in  the  pulpit,  the  likeness  of  the  late  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  I  won- 
dered and  I  looked  and  thought  perhaps  my  eyes  had  deceived  me,  un- 
til the  next  day  when  a  brother  stood  up  in  the  stand,  who  was  going 
to  Scandinavia  to  preside  over  the  mission,  and  he  testified  to  the  very 
same  thing  that  I  saw  myself,  and  he  verified  it.  I  thank  the  Lord  that 
I  am  here  at  this  conference.  May  the  Lord  bless  my  brethren  and 
sisters  in  all  their  labors  whether  it  be  at  home  or  abroad,  is  my  prayer 
for  us  all,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

A  very  wise  man  once  said :  "You  cannot  judge  the  full  value 
of  the  teachings  of  any  man  by  merely  hearing  the  message.  You  must 
wait  until  you  see  the  result  of  those  teachings  as  they  are  carried 
out  in  the  lives  of  the  men  and  women  who  accept  them  and  live  them." 
The  world  now  is  having  an  opportunity  to  judge  the  teachings  of 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  by  examining  the  lives  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 

A  TESTING  TIME 

I  am  sure  that  it  is  also  true  that  the  world  is  full  of  theory.  All 
kinds  of  theories  are  advanced  by  men  who  have  in  their  hearts  a 
desire  to  solve  the  problems  of  the  world,  and  think  they  are  going  to 
do  it.  At  the  same  time,  I  am  sure  that  this  is  a  testing  time,  when 
everything  will  be  shaken  that  can  be  shaken  and  when  nothing  shall 
stand  except  that  which  God  has  established  and  that  which  is  the 
truth.  I  am  not  afraid,  so  far  as  the  Church  is  concerned,  as  we  enter 
this  great  conflict.  As  the  testing  time  approaches  I  have  no  fear,  be- 
cause the  Lord  himself  has  decreed  that  this  work  shall  stand.  To 
Daniel  he  made  it  known.  Daniel  saw  our  day,  and  this  work,  that  it 
should  roll  forth  until  it  should  fill  the  whole  earth,  and  that  it  should 
not  be  thrown  down  nor  be  left  to  another  people.  I  have  absolute 
confidence,  therefore,  in  the  outcome  of  this  work  and  the  fulfilment 
of  that  promise.  At  the  same  time,  to  those  who  have  not  this  faith, 
we  have  an  appeal  to  make, — to  judge  the  work  by  its  fruits,  by  the 
results  that  have  been  obtained  from  the  teachings  of  the  leaders  of  this 
Church. 

THE  RELIGION  THAT  IS  WORTH  HAVING 

I  was  impressed  recently  by  reading  a  work  written  by  one  of  the 
eminent  gentlemen  of  this  country,  Thomas  Nixon  Carver,  who,  a 
year  ago,  addressed  the  conference  in  this  great  tabernacle.  He  was 
discussing  in  his  book  the  kind  of  religion  that  is  worth  having  and 
the  kind  that  will  survive,  and  from  some  of  the  interesting  things 
I  noted,  I  wish  to  read  the  following  extracts.    Said  he : 

"The  religion  which  best  fits  men  for  the  struggle  with  the  forces 
of  the  world,  which  enables  them  to  survive  in  this  struggle,  will  event- 
ually be  left  in  possession  of  the  world." 

Again  another : 

"That  nation  or  that  people  whose  average  individual  character  and 
conduct  and  whose  social  institutions  and  customs  are  such  as  to  make 
them  strong  in  competition  with  other  peoples,  and  able  to  spread  over 
the  earth  and  subdue  it  and  have  dominion  over  it,  become  by  that  very 
fact  the  chosen  people,  whatever  their  name,  language  or  religion." 

Still  another: 

"The  church  which  ministers  to  a  neighborhood  where  poor  people 
live,  that  gives  them  a  discipline  which  enables  them  to  rise  out  of  pov- 
erty and  pass  them  on  to  other  neighborhoods,  to  make  room  for  other 
poor  people  who  are  coming  in  and  by  repeating  this  process,  continue  to 
minister  to  the  needs  of  poor  people,  but  of  an  ever-changing  body  of  poor 
people,  is  the  only  kind  of  a  poor  man's  church  to  be  proud  of." 

And  I  am  proud  of  this  Church,  though  it  is  a  poor  man's  Church. 


I 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD  57 

At  least  the  membership  of  this  Church  was  very  largely  made  up  of 
poor  men  and  women,  but  they  did  not  stay  poor,  thank  the  Lord. 
Through  adhering  to  the  teachings  of  this  Church,  men  have  come 
into  the  possession  of  their  own  homes,  as  we  heard  from  our  Presi- 
dent yesterday  morning,  so  much  so  that  75  per  cent  of  the  member- 
ship of  the  Church  own  their  own  homes.  Perhaps  no  such  record 
can  be  found  anywhere  else  in  the  world.  These  poor  people  were 
made  independent  and  passed  on  to  take  care  of  themselves,  and  to  ren- 
der assistance  to  other  poor  folks  who  are  still  coming,  that  they 
may  ultimately  become  independent.  I  think  I  can  see  working  out 
in  the  process  of  the  Church,  the  fulfilment  of  all  our  dreams,  for  from 
my  childhood  I  have  heard  it  said  that  the  day  would  come  when  this 
people  would  be  the  leaders  of  the  world,  would  be  a  pattern  and  ex- 
ample to  be  sought  after  by  the  whole  world,  and  that  the  world,  if 
they  would  come  to  success,  would  imitate  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

THE  MARGINS  THAT  COUNT 

Out  in  Oregon  I  was  impressed  on  one  occasion  by  a  statement 
of  an  old  forest  ranger,  who  told  me  that  in  any  group  of  trees  in  any 
part  of  that  great  forest  country,  any  single  tree  in  that  group  whose 
height  was  about  six  inches  above  any  other  tree  in  the  group,  would 
become  the  giant  of  the  group.  Just  that  little  margin  of  difference 
gave  that  tree  its  advantage.  I  say  to  you,  with  my  friend,  that  a  re- 
ligion that  prepares  a  people  to  succeed  in  competition  with  other 
peoples,  to  survive,  is  a  religion  that  will  stand  and  endure.  I  have 
thought  of  how  the  Lord  has  provided  for  the  material,  spiritual  and 
physical  strength  and  endurance  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  calling 
your  attention  to  this,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  because  I  do  not  expect 
to  see  a  great  miracle  wrought  to  produce  this  change.  The  key,  the 
way  to  attain  that  end,  has  already  been  given  to  us  in  the  very  com- 
mon and  practical  things  that  we  hear  from  day  to  day. 

THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM 

I  want  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  have  faith  in  these  revelations. 
Take,  for  instance,  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  The  Lord  himself  said  that 
it  was  given  for  the  temporal  salvation  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  It 
has  to  do  with  the  making  of  a  strong  body.  We  have  heard  something 
about  the  death  rate  in  the  Church— among  the  lowest  of  any  group  of 
people  in  the  world.  We  have  heard  how  that  the  average  length  of  life 
of  a  Latter-day  Saint  is  about  six  years  longer  than  the  average  length 
of  life  in  the  United  States.  Any  community  of  people  whose  average 
length  of  life  is  six  years  longer  than  any  other  group  has  that  margin 
of  difference.  They  will  be  the  leaders.  They  cannot  help  but  be  in 
advance.  Any  community  of  people  whose  average  death  rate  is  low 
and  whose  average  birth  rate  is  high,  as  the  Latter-day  Saints'  death 
rate  and  birth  rate  are,  cannot  help  in  the  end  but  be  in  the  lead.  They 
have  the  margin  of  difference  and  advantage. 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

There  has  been  imported  into  the  United  States  in  the  last  seven 
years,  one  billion  dollars  worth  of  coffee,  according  to  government  sta- 
tistics, and  not  one  dollar  of  that  coffee  was  raised  in  the  United 
States.  How  many  years  would  it  take  the  United  States  government, 
if  all  the  people  would  contribute  what  they  now  pay  for  coffee  into  a 
tax,  to  wipe  out  the  national  debt?  A  billion  dollars  in  seven  years — 
it  is  easily  figured  out — and  yet  not  one  single  atom  of  food  value  or 
strength  or  benefit  comes  to  man,  but  positive  hurt  and  injury,  through 
the  use  of  coffee. 

That  is  only  one  item.  Add  tea,  and  tobacco,  also  other  things 
forbidden  in  the  word  of  wisdom,  and  I  say  to  you  that  if  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  would  observe  this  law  of  the  Lord,  it  would  become  a 
great  factor  in  their  economic  salvation  and  would  give  them  a  margin 
of  difference  over  a  coffee  drinking,  tea  drinking  and  tobacco  smok- 
ing community  that  would  put  them,  in  the  end,  head  and  shoulders, 
physically,  mentally  and  financially,  ahead  of  any  other  group. 

MINISTRATION  TO  THE  SICK 

I  would  like  to  call  your  attention,  since  mention  has  been  made 
of  it,  to  another  item.  We  believe  in  anointing  the  sick  with  oil,  and 
praying  over  them.  At  the  same  time  we  are  not  fanatics.  We  be- 
lieve in  faith  and  works.  We  recognize  the  skill  of  the  physician  as 
the  wisdom  of  the  Lord,  and  we  are  willing  to  employ  it,  but  to  em- 
ploy it  in  connection  with  blessings  we  seek  at  the  hands  of  the  Lord 
in  his  appointed  way.  We  do  not  want  the  Latter-day  Samts  to  forge' 
that  there  is  a  privilege  they  enjoy  to  seek  the  Lord  for  blessings  that 
may  be  had  through  their  faith ;  and  often,  I  believe,  we  could  save 
ourselves  expense  and  sickness  and  trouble  if  we  would  exercise  our 
faith  a  little  more.  Not  that  I  would  ban  the  usel  of  medicine,  properly 
applied,  nor  the  skill  of  the  physician,  but  we  do  not  want  to  forget 
what  the  Lord  has  offered  to  us ;  and  if  it  were  computed — all  that  has 
been  saved  through  the  ministration  on  the  part  of  the  elders  in  the 
Church  in  relieving  the  sick,  in  saving  them  and  in  saving  those  who 
would  naturally  have  to  pay  the  bill  if  physicians  had  to  do  the  work 
to  bring  to  pass  the  restoration  to  health— it  would  amount  to  a  tre- 
mendous sum,  not  to  say  anything  of  the  relief  to  sufferers.  That 
principle  alone  would  put  the  Latter-day  Saints  head  and  shoulders 
above  any  other  community. 

PAYMENT  OF  TITHING 

Again;  here  is  the  principle  of  tithing — a  principle  that  contains 
the  key  for  the  solution  of  the  financial  struggle  that  is  going  on  in 
the  world  between  capital  and  labor.  It  is  but  the  beginning  perhaps 
of  that  system  or  plan  which  our  heavenly  Father  has  given  for  the 
solut'on  of  this  problem,  but  I  bear  witness  to  you  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  if  they  will  pay  their  honest  tithing,  will  be  enabled  thereby  to 
produce  the  state  and  condition  that  will  enable  the  Church,  as  a  whole 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


59 


body,  to  take  care,  not  only  of  their  poor,  but  to  take  care  of  their  fi- 
nancial problems.  By  the  payment  of  tithing-,  a  great  industry,  we 
have  heard,  was  saved.  I  bear  witness  to  you  that  if  that  industry, 
the  sugar  company,  had  not  been  saved,  it  would  have  been  the  great- 
est calamity  financially  that  has  ever  happened  to  this  inter-mountain 
country,  and  we  would  not  have  recovered  from  it  for  many  years. 
Thank  the  Lord  some  Latter-day  Saints  paid  their  honest  tithing  and 
there  was  means  in  the  hands  of  the  Church  to  stabilize  industries  of 
this  kind  that  affected  so  many  of  our  people.  If  all  the  Latter-day 
Saints  would  pay  their  tithing  the  financial  strength  of  this  people 
would  never  be  imperiled  no  matter  what  might  come. 

FAST  OFFERINGS  AND  FASTING 

Again,  I  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  Lord  has  pro- 
vided for  the  Latter-day  Saints  a  way  to  take  care  of  their  poor,  which 
does  not  cost  them  a  dollar.  The  poor  the  world  will  always  have' 
with  them  and  the  poor  they  will  always  have  to  take  care  of.  By 
the  provision  which  he  has  given  wherein  we  abstain  from  the  use 
of  two  meals  on  the  first  Sunday  in  the  month,  we  obtain  physical 
benefits  and  blessings  from  that  sacrifice,  and  at  the  same  time  we  save 
something,  the  equivalent  of  which  Latter-day  Saints  should  give  to 
the  bishop  to  take  care  of  the  poor  of  the  Church  ;  and  if  that  were  done 
by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  so  much  so  that  each  member  of  the  Church 
would  contribute  an  average  of  ten  cents  for  those  two  meals,  of  five 
cents  per  meal,  there  would  be  ample  funds,  without  touching  the  tithes 
of  the  Church,  to  take  care  of  all  the  poor  and  it  would  not  cost  anybody 
a  dollar  and  those  who  have  sacrificed  the  use  of  a  meal  have  ob- 
tained a  benefit. 

I  bear  witness  to  you  that  this  is  a  time  when  men  are  being 
tested  as  to  whether  or  not  they  are  going  to  have  power  over  the 
flesh  to  resist  the  temptations  of  the  evil  one.  There  is  an  eternal 
conflict  on — the  conflict  between  the  flesh  and  the  spirit.  I  think  it 
is  a  splendid  thing  for  each  and  every  one  of  us  to  ascertain  who  is 
boss  and  master  in  the  house  in  which  we  live.  Does  the  flesh  have 
its  way?  I  am  grateful  that  once  a  month  there  is  an  opportunity 
for  every  Latter-day  Saint  to  demonstrate  this  thing.  I  know  that 
when  you  come  to  that  fasting  period,  the  flesh  will  begin  to  say:  "I 
cannot  fast ;  I  will  have  a  headache,  or  T  will  get  weak  in  the  knees  or 
sick,"  or  something  else.  Does  the  flesh  have  its  way?  If  so,  you  are 
becoming  subjected  to  the  flesh.  It  is  the  time  and  opportunity  for  the 
spirit  to  say :  "Yes,  I  know  you  perhaps  will  have  a  headache  and  be 
sick  and  faint,  but  once  a  month  I  will  show  you  I  am  boss  in  this 
house.  I  rule.  I  will  have  my  way;  you  cannot  have  it."  It  is  es- 
sential that  the  spirit  shall  have  dominion  and  control  over  the  flesh. 
This  is  the  hour,  this  is  the  time  when  the  whole  world  is  giving  evi- 
dence of  their  weakness  and  inability  to  sacrifice  and  to  make  the  flesh 
amenable  to  their  own  good  common  sense,  or  whether  or  not  they 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


want  license  and  liberty  to  destroy  the  flesh  through  yielding  to  its 
lusts,  to  its  appetites  and  to  its  desires. 

MARRIAGE  AND  DIVORCE 

And  so,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  with  reference  to  the  family. 
When  the  President  read  how  low  the  divorce  record  is  in  this  Church, 
how  many  of  the  members  of  the  Church  enter  into  the  solemn  state 
of  matrimony  and  engage  in  the  rearing  of  families  that  make  for  the 
stabilizing,  the  perpetuity  and  endurance  of  any  community,  my  soul 
rejoiced  to  know  that  we  have  a  marriage  rate  per  thousand  that  is  per- 
haps greater  than  that  of  any  community  on  earth,  and  at  the  same  time 
our  divorce  rate  is  lower.  What  is  it  that  is  upsetting  and  disturbing 
the  world  today?  This  very  identical  thing.  And,  if  the  Latter-day 
Saints  will  not  only  observe  this  great  commandment  of  the  Lord,  but 
at  the  same  time  honor  the  first  great  commandment  to  multiply  and 
replenish  the  earth,  and  not  yield  to  the  lusts  of  the  flesh,  to  the 
pleasures,  slo-called,  selfish  pleasures,  of  life  and  fail  to  respond  to 
God's  great  law ;  if  they  will  but  follow  the  example  set  by  their  fath- 
ers and  mothers  and  fulfil  that  law  and  discharge  their  duty  to  the 
unborn,  giving  them  the  right  and  the  privilege  to  come  with  us  and 
enjoy  earth  life;  if  the  Latter-day  Saint  boys  and  girls  will  continue, 
I  say,  to  adhere  to  that  high  and  sacred  and  holy  obligation,  then  I 
am  as  sure  as  I  am  that  the  sun  rises  that  it  will  come  to  pass  that  this 
people  will  survive  no  matter  what  the  calamities  may  be,  no  matter 
what  the  perils  at  home  or  abroad  may  be,  no  matter  how  the  earth 
shall  be  shaken,  how  men  shall  be  tried,  how  nations  shall  be  torn, 
how  thrones  shall  totter,  how  finances  shall  go  to  wreckage,  how  laws 
shall  be  defied.  If  only  this  people  shall  adhere  to  these  few  simple 
principles  which  God  has  given  to  them,  they  shall  weather  the  storms 
and  they  shall  become  the  beacon  light,  the  hope  of  the  world,  the  salt 
of  the  earth;  which  may  God  grant,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

! 

ELDER  WILLIAM  T.  JACK 

{President  of  the  Cassia  Stake  of  Zion) 

I  have  rejoiced  very  much,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  attending 
the  sessions  of  this  conference  thus  far ;  and  I  can  say,  as  was  stated  by 
one  of  the  brethren  yesterday,  that  I  have  been  fortunate  in  my  life 
in  the  fact  that  my  heart  and  my  feelings  have  always  been  in  tune  with 
those  whom  God  has  chosen  to  lead  his  Israel ;  and  I  stand  before  you 
in  that  attitude  today.  I  rejoice  in  the  privilege  that  I  have  of  attend- 
ing these  conferences  of  the  Church  and  of  associating  with  the  best 
men  that  live  upon  this  earth,  men  whom  God  has  chosen  from  among 
his  people,  and  has  lifted  them  up  to  be  our  leaders,  our  prophets  and 
those  to  whom  we  should  look  for  advice  and  counsel,  and  those 


ELDER  WILLIAM  T.  JACK 


61 


from  whom  we  should  take  that  counsel  and  that  advice. 

I  believe  that  the  third  verse  of  the  twelfth  chapter  of  the  Book 
of  Daniel  is  applicable  to  us  as  Latter-day  Saints  today.  In  the  eleventh 
chapter  he  has  referred  to  a  great  war,  and  pictures  the  close  of  it 
temporarily,  and  shows  that  we  are  approaching  the  time  when  the 
dead  in  Christ  shall  arise,  and  he  makes  this  specific  mention  of  the 
Latterday  Saints,  in  my  opinion ;  he  says  : 

"And  they  that  be  wise  shall  shine  as  the  brightness  of  the  firmament; 
and  they  that  turn  many  to  righteousness  as  the  stars  for  ever  and  ever." 

The  world's  calamity  today,  as  was  stated  yesterday,  is  our  oppor- 
tunity. As  individual  members  of  this  Church,  if  we  are  applying  our- 
selves to  the  missionary  spirit  and  labor,  if  we  are  doing  our  duty,  if 
we  are  living  our  religion,  we  may  be  laying  up  for  ourselves  treasures 
that  some  day  will  make  those  who  do  it  shine  as  the  stars  forever  and 
ever. 

I  rejoice  that  we  have  been  able  to  read  the  scriptures  differently 
from  our  friends  who  profess  the  Christian  religion  in  the  world.  I 
thought  this  morning,  while  sitting  here,  of  the  prophecy  delivered  to 
and  made  by  John  the  Revelator  while  he  was  upon  the  isle  of  Patmos, 
banished  from  his  brethren  and  from  his  people.  We  are  told  that  an 
angel  came  to  him  and  said :  "Come  up  hither,  John,  and  I  will  show 
you  things  which  must  come  to  pass  hereafter,"  and  he  took  him  up 
on  to  an,  eminence  and  showed  him  the  falling  away  of  the  ancient 
church,  the  decay  of  the  faith  of  those  who  were  saints  and  their  de- 
struction by  the  evil  power.  Then  he  showed  him  the  period  of  dark- 
ness through  which  this  world  has  passed.  Then,  in  the  spirit  of  hope, 
he  raises  his  voice  and  says : 

"And  I  saw  another  angel  flying  through  the  midst  of  heaven,  having 
the  everlasting  gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to 
every  nation,  and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people, 

"Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God  and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the 
hour  of  his  judgment  is  come:'  and  worship  him  that  made  heaven,  and 
earth,  and  the  sea,  and  the  fountains  of  water." 

Well,  I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  live  in  the  day  of  the 
fulfilment  of  that  prediction.  I  rejoice  to  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
raised  up  and  received  heavenly  visions,  as  was  testified  to  here  today 
by  President  Cardon.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  received  the  vision 
of  the  Father  and  the  Son,  in  the  Spring  of  1820.  I  know  that  he 
received  a  visit  from  the  angel,  Moroni,  and  that  he  was  blessed  with 
visions  and  with  revelations  from  time  to  time,  and  finally  with  the 
authority  of  the  Priesthood  of  God.  Friends  may  rail  against  us  for 
believing  in  divine  authority  and  for  looking  up  to  the  Priesthood  of 
God,  but  I  want  to  tell  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  is  our  hope 
in  the  future,  to  follow  the  lead  of  these  men  whom  God  has  raised  uf> 
and  unto  whom  he  has  given  his  Spirit,  and  to  whom  he  is  giving  the 
inspiration,  the  knowledge  and  the  wisdom  that  should  lead  Israel  and 
will  lead  Israel. 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  rejoice  in  these  blessings  and  in  these  opportunities.  I  know 
that  the  gospel  is  true.  I  know  that  the  Lord  has  spoken,  that  this  is 
his  work  that  he  has  established  upon  the  earth,  never  again  to  be 
overthrown  nor  given  into  the  hands  of  another  people,  but  it  will 
stand  forever;  and  the  only  question  is:    Shall  we  stand  with  it? 

I  think  that  those  who  attended  the  meetings  yesterday  and  those 
who  are  here  today  are  among  the  most  faithful  in  the  different  parts 
of  the  Church,  because  we  appreciate  the  conference;  we  are  glad  to  be 
present  and  catch  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  that  falls  from  the  lips 
and  through  the  addresses  of  men  who  are  called  to  lead  this  work.  I 
rejoice  in  the  fact  that  there  are  so  many  who  are  faithful  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints — men  and  women  upon  whom  rests  the  responsibil- 
ity of  carrying  on  this  great  work  through  these  days  and  years  of 
trouble. 

I  know  that  the  admonition  and  counsel  given  to  the  Church  a 
year  ago,  at  this  conference,  from  President  Grant,  was  the  word  of 
the  Lord.  There  were  people  who  doubted  it  at  that  time.  There 
were  people  who  went  home  feeling  angry  that  the  President  of  the 
Church  should  assume  to  dictate  to  them  or  to  suggest  to  them  what 
they  ought  to  do  in  their  own  affairs,  but  the  great  majority  of  them 
did  not  feel  that  way.  We  knew  that  it  was  the  word  of  the  Lord  and 
it  required  less  than  a  year  to  demonstrate  the  fact  that  that  was  true. 
So  I  believe  that  the  words  of  Daniel  will  apply  to  us  also  in  this  day, 
that  if  we  are  wise,  wise  enough  to  catch  the  inspiration,  to  take  the 
word  of  those  who  preside  over  us,  the  time  will  come,  within,  per- 
haps, the  next  ten  years,  when  the  financial  world  is  crashing  and  is 
coming  down  to  the  same  condition  that  many  of  the  members  are 
in  at  the  present  time,  that  we  will  be.  able  to  shine  with  the  brightness 
of  the  firmament,  as  men  of  wisdom,  men  who  have  taken  counsel,  men 
who  have  been  guided  thereby  in  their  financial  affairs. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  May  the  inspira- 
tion of  his  Spirit  continue  to  rest  down  abundantly  upon  President 
Grant — and  upon  his  counselors,  and  upon  these  chosen  men — the 
Council  of  the  Twelve — men  after  God's  own  heart.  I  thought  last 
night,  while  listening  to  Dr.  Talmage  referring  to  the  general  author- 
ities of  the  Church — twenty-six  men — that  their  equal  could  not  be 
found  among  all  the  peoples  of  the  earth.  There  are  no  such  men  out- 
side of  the  -Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  upon  whom 
the  Lord  has  placed  his  power,  into  whose  hands  he  has  given  his 
authority,  and  to  whom  he  looks  for  the  safeguarding  of  the  good  ship 
Zkn,  through  the  breakers  around  about  us. 

May  peace  rest  down  upon  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  the 
inspiration  of  the  Lord  be  with  you  in  your  homes.  May  you  be  suc- 
cessful in  the  rearing  of  your  families,  in  the  conduct  of  your  affairs, 
and  in  your  dut'es  and  obligations  to  God  and  to  your  brethren  and 
sisters,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 


63 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Eastern  States 

Mission) 

On  the  title  page  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  there  is  a  statement  made 
of  the  purpose  for  which  the  book  was  written.  Part  of  the  explanation 
is  as  follows : 

" — Which  is  to  show  unto  the  remnant  of  the  House  of  Tsrael  what  great 
things  the  Lord  hath  done  for  their  fathers ;  and  that  they  may  know  the 
covenants  of  the  Lord,  that  they  are  not  cast  off  forever;  and  also  to  the 
convincing  of  the  Jew  and  Gentile  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Eternal  God, 
manifesting  himself  unto  all  nations — " 

That  book  was  published  in  the  Spring  of  1830.  At  that  time,  I 
feel  very  sure  in  saying,  the  conviction  of  those  who  considered  them- 
selves Christians,  was  practically  unanimous  in  the  conception  that 
Jesus  Christ,  in  some  way,  was  divine;  and  not  only  divine,  but  also 
in  .some  way,  the  manifestation  of  God  to  the  world.  And  ye':  we  find 
in  this  preface  of  the  l!ook  of  Mormon  a  statement  that  this  book  had 
been  written  and  preserved  to  come  forth  in  the  last  days  to  establish 
the  conception  of  jesus  Christ  as  "The  Eternal  God;"  and  many 
marvel,  doubtless,  that  such  a  statement  as  this  should  be  made. 

What  more  witness  or  testimony  could  the  world  need  than  is  to 
be  found  in  the  New  Testament  scriptures,  to  the  fact  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ  and  God?  Yiou  doubtless  will  recall  the  question  that  Christ 
asked  the  Pharisees  with  whom  he  had  been  in  controversy.  Turning 
questioner  himself,  he  said  to  them:  "What  think  ye  of  Christ?" — 
having  in  mind  the  Anointed  One  whom  the  whole  nation  of  Jews 
were  expecting — "Whose  son  is  he?"  And  they  quite  readily  an- 
swered: "The  son  of  David."  "How  then,"  said,  the  Christ,  "doth 
David  in  spirit  call  him  Lord,  saying,  The  Lord  said  unto  my  Lord, 
Sit  thou  on  my  right  hand,  till  I  make  thine  enemies  thy  footstool  ?  If 
David  then  call  him  Lord,  how  is  he,  then,  his  son,  And  no  man  was 
able  to  answer  him  a  word." 

Then,  on  another  occasion,  when  in  controversy  with  the  Jews, 
the  Savior  said  :  "I  and  my  Father  are  one,"  and  then  they  took  up 
stones  to  stone  him.  Jesus  answered  them:  "Many  good  works  have 
I  showed  you  from  my  Father;  for  which  of  those  works  do'  ye  stone 
me?"  And  the  Jews  answered:  "For  a  good  work  we  stone  thee  not; 
but  for  blasphemy;  and  because  that  thou,  being  a  man,  makest  thy- 
self God,"  and  this,  of  course,  was  in  their  view,  blasphemy.  The 
Savior  answered  them  saying:  "Is  it  not  written  in  your  law,  I  said, 
Ye  are  gods?  If  he  called  them  gods,  unto  whom  the  word  of  God 
came,  and  the  scripture  cannot  be  broken ;  say  ye  of  him,  whom  the 
Father  hath  sanctified,  and  sent  into  the  world,  Thou  blasphemest;  be- 
cause I  said,  I  am  the  Son  of  God,  If  I  do  not  the  works  of  my  Father, 
believe  me  not.    But  if  I  do,  though  ye  believe  not  me,  believe  the 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


works ;  that  ye  may  know,  and  believe,  that  the  Father  is  in  me,  and  I  in 
him." 

St.  John's  testimony  is  to  the  sajne  effect ;  namely : 

"In  the  beginning  was  the  Word,  and  the  Word  was  with  God, 
and  the  Word  was  God,"  and  it  goes  on  to  tell  us  that, 

"All  things  were  made  by  him ;  and  without  him  was  not  any 
tiling  made  that  was  made."    *    *  * 

"And  the  Word  was' made  flesh,  and  dwelt  among  us,  (and  we  be- 
held his  glory,  the  glory  as  of  the  only  begotten  of  the  Father)  full  of 
grace  and  truth." 

And  ,so,  you  might  continue  to  point  out  from  the  New  Testament 
scripture  how  the  Christ  is  proclaimed  to  be  one  with  the  Father,  and 
possessed  of  all  power,  as  he  himself  declared,  both  in  heaven  and  in 
earth;  and  is  named  in  the  Holy  Trinity  as  being  equal  with  God,  the 
Father,  and  with  God,  the  Holy  Ghost;  the  three  constituting  the  God- 
head of  heaven  and  of  earth.  Yet,  notwithstanding  all  these  testimonies 
of  the  New  Testament  scriptures,  God  brings  forth  a  new  volume  of 
scripture,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  which  we  are  learning  to  call  the 
American  scripture,  the  word  of  God  to  the  ancient  inhabitants  of 
this  land  of  America.  He  brings  that  forth  and  points  out  in  it  that 
the  greatest  purpose  of  all  in  bringing  it  into  existence  and  preserving 
it,  is  to  testify  to  both  Jew  and  Gentile  in  the  last  days,  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  the  Eternal  God. 

In  the  eastern  states  of  late,  there  has  arisen  a  great  controversy 
about  this  very  subject — viz,  is  Jesus  Deity?  A  very  noted  rector  in 
the  diocese  of  New  York,  Dr.  Grant,  in  January,  in  one  of  his  Sunday 
services,  announced  that  "Jesus  was  not  Deity,"  but  man.  His  bishop, 
Bishop  William  T.  Manning,  immediately  took  him  to  task,  pointed 
out  that  he  was  out  of  harmony  with  the  creed  of  the  great  Episcopal 
Church,  and  that  he  ought  either  to  recant  the  things  he  had  uttered, 
or  else  he  ought  to  resign.  The  doctor  declined  to  resign,  though  he 
did  modify  somewhat  the  positiveness  of  his  statement  that  Jesus  was 
not  Deity.  In  his  reply  to  his  bishop,  he  merely  said  that  he  did  not 
know  of  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  believed  that  the  historical 
gospels  that  best  set  forth  his  life,  did  not  attribute  to  him  Deityship. 
It  is  a  kind  of  drawn  battle  between  the  rector  and  his  bishop;  but  it 
discloses  the  fact  that  there  were  quite  as  many  people  in  that  diocese 
who  sided  with  the  rector  as  against  the  bishop;  and  it  also  disclosed 
the  fact  that  the  ministry  was  about  equally  divided  on  the  subject, 
This  agitation  that  thus  arose,  extended  throughout  all  the  country,  not 
only  among  Christians  but  the  Jews  also  have  participated  in  it.  And 
the  discovery  is  made,  and  it  is  safe  to  make  the  statement,  that  not 
more  than  one-half  of  those  who  bear  the  name  "Christian"  do  really 
believe  in  Jesus  Christ  as  Deity.  I  am  very  sure  that  it  is  the  general 
mental  attitude  toward  the  Christ,  that  he  is  merely  the  "prophet  teacher 
of  Nazareth,"  and  not  at  all  God. 

That  is  as  far  as  I  may  now  lead  your  reflections  upon  this  sub- 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 


65 


ject;  but  is  it  not  marvelous  that  a  book  should  be  brought  forth,  about 
one  hundred  years  ago  that  would  carry  in  it  testimony  and  witness 
for  the  Deityship  of  Jesus  Christ,  when  there  was  no  earthly  reason 
for  believing,  when  the  book  was  brought  forth,  that  it  would  have 
any  such  emergency  to  meet  as  we  now  see  rising  in  the  modern, 
Christian  world? 

I  thank  God  that  he  thus  anticipated  the  need  of  the  religious 
world  concerning  a  true  knowledge  of  God ;  that  he  brought  forth, 
as  from  the  dust,  the  testimony  of  sleeping  nations  to  the  great  cen- 
tral truth  of  the  Christian  religion,  the  important  fact  that  Jesus  Christ 
is  indeed  God,  manifest  in  the  flesh;  and  has,  in  our  day,  more  than 
doubled  divine  testimony,  that  Jesus,  the  Christ,  is  both  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world  and,  under  the  direction  of  the  Father,  the  Creator  of  it 
and  the  sustaining  power  of  it;  also  the  vital  force,  that  gives  life  to 
all  things;  and  likewise  the  intelligence-inspiring  power;  and  above 
all  the  love-manifested  power;  the  love  revealed  that  God  has  for  all 
the  children  of  men,  in  which  manifested  love,  we  may  hope  for  the 
continuation  of  effort  upon  the  part  of  the  Divine  powers,  to  bring  the 
children  of  men  unto'  God.  May  the  Lord  grant  it,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Now  let  us  rejoice." 
Elder  Joseph  A.  West  offered  the  closing  prayer. 
Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

The  meeting  began  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.  President  Heber  J.  Grant 
announced  that  the  Provo  Tabernacle  choir,  under  the  direction  of  J. 
R.  Boshard,  would  sing,  "Hark  the  glorious  dawn." 

After  the  singing,  Elder  Joseph  H.  Dean,  of  Shelley,  Idaho,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  choir  sang,  "O  Holy  Father." 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  rejoiced  greatly  in  the  spirit  of 
this  conference.  We  have  listened  already  to  some  very  fine  instruc- 
tions and  some  pointed  testimonies  which  were  faith-promoting.  I 
desire  that  the  same  good  spirit  that  has  actuated  the  other  speakers 
may  also  be  with  me. 

THE  PRINCIPLE  OF  REVELATION  VITAL 

No  more  important  topic  has  been  touched  upon  at  this  confer- 
ence than  the  principle  of  revelation,  which  is  vital  to  the  salvation 
of  the  souls  of  men.  It  would  be  difficult  to  imagine  the  true  Church 

3 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  God  being  upon  the  earth  without  the  principle  of  revelation  or  di- 
rect communication.  Holy  Writ  tells  us  that  the  prophets  of  old 
spoke  and  wrote  as  they  were  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  which 
is  the  spirit  of  truth  and  the  spirit  of  revelation.  Many  pages  of  the 
Bible  are  filled  with  references  to  this  important  subject.  Even  in  the 
very  beginning,  we  learn  that  God  created  man  in  his  own  image  and 
after  his  likeness,  and  placed  him  in  the  Garden  of  Eden  and  spoke 
to  him  there.  We  are  led  to  believe  that  God  appeared  to  him  in 
person,  and  it  was  only  when  Adam  departed  from  the  commandment 
of  God  that  he  was  shut  out  from  his  presence,  and  even  under  those 
trying  circumstances,  the  Lord  sent  an  angel  to  communicate  with  Adam 
and  to  bear  testimony  to  him.  Surely  that  was  an  important  time  and 
an  important  matter.   And  so  it  was  with  others  that  followed. 

THE  CASE  OF  ABRAHAM 

You  will  remember,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  Abraham,  that 
mighty  patriarch  of  old  and  friend  of  God. — who  was  a  righteous  man 
and  a  righteous  judge — diligently  sought  after  the  blessings  of  the 
fathers  and  the  Priesthood,  and  he  found  them ;  for  it  would  appear, 
from  what  he  says  in  respect  to  this  important  matter,  that  the  Lord 
appeared  to  him.    Abraham  said : 

"And  finding  there  was  greater  happiness  and  peace  and  rest  for  me,  I 
sought  for  the  blessings  of  the  fathers,  and  the  right  whereunto  I  should  be 
ordained  to  administer  the  same ;  having  been  myself  a  follower  of  righteousness, 
desiring  also  to  be  one  who  possessed  great  knowledge,  and  to  be  a  greater 
follower  of  righteousness,  and  to  possess  a  greater  knowledge,  and  to  be  a 
father  of  many  nations,  a  prince  of  peace,  and  desiring  to  receive  instructions, 
and  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God.  I  became  a  rightful  heir,  a  High 
Priest,  holding  the  right  belonging  to  the  fathers. 

"It  was  conferred  upon  me  from  the  fathers;  it  came  down  from  the 
fathers,  from  the  beginning  of  time,  yea,  even  from  the  beginning,  or  before 
the  foundations  of  the  earth,  to  the  present  time,  even  the  right  of  the  first- 
born, or  the  first  man,  who  is  Adam,  our  first  father,  through  the  fathers, 
unto  me." 

And  again  the  Lord  spake  unto  Abraham,  and  he  said : 

"For  I  am  the  Lord  thy  God;  I  dwell  in  heaven;  the  earth  is  my  footstool; 
I  stretch  my  hand  over  the  sea,  and  it  obeys  my  voice ;  I  cause  the  wind 
and  the  fire  to  be  my  chariot ;  I  say  to  the  mountains — Depart  hence — and  be- 
hold, they  are  taken  away  by  a  whirlwind,  in  an  instant,  suddenly. 

"My  name  is  Jehovah,  and  I  know  the  end  from  the  beginning;  therefore 
my  hand  shall  be  over  thee. 

"And  I  will  make  of  thee  a  great  nation,  and  I  will  bless  thee  above  meas- 
ure, and  make  thy  name  great  among  all  nations,  and  thou  shalt  be  a  bless- 
ing unto  thy  seed  after  thee  that  in  their  hands  they  shall  bear  this  ministry  and 
Priesthood  unto  all  nations    *    *    *  " 

"Now,  after  the  Lord  had  withdrawn  from  speaking  to  me,  and  withdrawn 
his  face  from  me,  I  said  in  my  heart:  Thy  servant  has  sought  thee  earnestly; 
now  I  have  found  thee    *    *    *  " 

And  so,  it  appears,  that  God  appeared  to  Abraham  and  talked 
with  him  face  to  face.    Surely  this  was  a  great  and  a  gloroius  revela- 


PRESIDENT  RUDfER  CLAW  SON 


67 


tion,  and  Abraham  was  put  in  the  way  of  obtaining  the  Priesthood, — 
divine  authority — and  great  and  mighty  blessings  were  conferred  upon 
him.  ' 

THE  LORD  ADVISES  ISAAC 

And  the  same  is  true  of  his  son  Isaac.  At  a  time  when  there  was 
famine  in  the  land,  Isaac  was  on  the  verge  of  departing  and  going 
into  Egypt,  but  the  Lord  advised  him  to  remain  in  the  land,  for  he 
said:  "I  will  bless  thee,  and  give  the  land  unto  thee,"  and  the  Lord 
renewed  upon  Isaac  the  promises  that  he  had  given  to  Abraham.  This 
blessing  came  to  Isaac  through  revelation.    How  wonderful! 

THE  LORD  SPOKE  TO  JACOB  IN  A  DREAM 

And  in  the  case  of  Jacob,  the  third  member  of  that  quorum  of 
patriarchs,  it  appears  that  he  had  a  wonderful  dream.  He  saw  in  vision 
a  ladder  reaching  from  the  earth  unto  heaven,  and  the  angels  of  God 
descending  and  ascending  upon  the  ladder;  but  at  the  head  stood  the 
Lord.  He  saw  him  with  his  eyes,  and  the  Lord  spoke  to  him  and 
blessed  him  and  put  upon  him  the  promises  that  he  had  made  to 
Abraham  and  Isaac.  And  so,  through  the  power  of  revelation,  these 
blessings  came  to  those  great  patriarchs. 

THE  VOICE  OF  REVELATION  TO  MOSES 

You  will  remember,  that  the  voice  of  revelation  came  to  Moses 
from  the  burning  bush.  It  was  a  wonderful  manifestation,  because 
in  that  voice  there  was  instruction  and  a  definite  command  given  to 
Moses  that  he  should  go  down  into  Egypt  and  deliver  the  people  out 
of  bondage.  But,  mark  you.  the  Lord  went  with  him.  The  Lord 
spoke  by  the  mouth  of  Moses  to,  Pharaoh,  and  through  the  power 
of  God,  Moses  wrought  those  ten  mighty  miracles  in  Egypt,  by  which 
the  Children  of  Israel  were  delivered  and  brought  out  of  bondage. 

But  the  Lord  was  near;  he  did  not  depart  nor  desert 
his  people;  he  spoke  to  them  in  the  wilderness.  The  voice  of  rev- 
elation came  out  from  Mount  Sina>,  even  the  voice  of  God  to  the 
children  of  Israel — giving  them  the  Ten  Commandments,  the  dec- 
alogue. How  wonderful  was  this  great  manifestation!  How  other- 
wise, my  brethren  and  sisters,  could  the  children  of  Israel  have 
received  this  communication  and  this  great  law — a  law  that  is  really, 
you  might  say,  sufficient  for  man's  instruction  all  the  days  of  his 
life. 

THE  PROPHETS.  SEERS,  AND  REVELATORS  OF  OLD 

So  we  might  say  of   the   prophets   Isaiah,    Ezekiel   and  Jere 
miah ;  they  were  seers  and  revelators,  and  wrote  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  Mighty  predictions  were  made  by  these  prophets,  which 
are  now  in  process  of  fulfilment. 

Amos,  the  prophet,  said:    "Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  noth- 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ing,  but  he  revealeth  his  secret  unto  his  servants  the  prophets."  That 
is  a  most  astounding  statement.  It  would  appear  that  the  Lord 
will  not  work  among  the  children  of  men,  and  will  do  nothing  ex- 
cept that  he  will  reveal  himself  concerning  these  matters  to  his 
servants,  the  prophets.  Where  does  that  place  any  man  or  woman, 
or  any  people,  who  claim  that  the  canon  of  scripture  is  full  and  that 
God  no  more  speaks  to  his  people?  We  know  that  a  veil  is  drawn 
between  the  Lord  and  the  children  of  men,  but  it  is  not  reasonable  to 
suppose  that  the  Being  who  has  given  the  gospel  to  his  cnildren  upon 
the  earth,  will  sit  behind  the  veil  there,  silent,  perfectly  silent,  and 
decline  to  speak  to  his  children.  The  idea  is  monstrous,  it  is  un- 
reasonable. 

THE  CHURCH  OF  CHRIST  BUILT  UPON  REVELATION 

And  so,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  the  Old  Testament  has  em- 
phasized the  principle  and  power  of  revelation,  it  is  doubly  emphasized 
in  the  New  Testament.  You  have  already  heard,  at  this  conference,  of  an 
interview  between  the  Savior  and  h's  apostles,  when  he  asked  them  this 
significant  question:  "'Whom  do  men  say  that  I  the  Son  of  man  am?" 
And  they  said:  "Some  say  thou  art  John  the  Baptist;  some  Elias; 
and  others  Jeremias,  or  one  of  the  prophets."  "But,"  said  he,  "whom 
say  ye  that  I  am?"  Now,  you  will  remember  the  answer  of  Peter, 
how  striking,  how  impressive  it  was.  lie  said:  "Thou  art  the  Christ, 
the  Son  of  the  living  God."  And  Jesus  answered  and  said:  "Blessed 
art  thou,  Simon  Barjona,  for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto 
thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven.  And  I  say  unto  thee,  that 
thou  art  Peter,  and  upon  this  rock  I  will  build  my  Church ;  and  the 
gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  it."  Some  have  gone  so  far  as 
to  say  that  the  rock  he  referred  to  was  Peter.  Surely,  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  would  not  build  his  Church  upon  one  who  was  lesser  in 
power  and  lesser  in  authority  than  himself.  No,  it  is  evident  that  he 
had  reference  to  revelation.  It  was  the  rock  of  revelation.  This  is  the 
view  that  we  take.  This  is  the  doctrine  that  we  promulgate.  We 
say :  Yes,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is  built  upon  the  rock  of  revela- 
tion, and  everything  points  to  this  fact,  so  far  as  the  Latter-day  work 
of  God  is  concerned. 

You  know  Daniel,  speaking  of  the  future,  said  that  in  the  days  of 
these  kings,  or  the  latter  days,  the  God  of  heaven  would  set  up  a 
kingdom  that  should  never  be  thrown  down  nor  given  to  another  people, 
and  should  stand  forever.  How  did  the  God  of  heaven  proceed  to  set 
up  that  kingdom?  By  the  principle  and  power  of  revelation,  for  it 
seems  that  the  Father  and  the  Son  descended  from  the  heavens,  in 
answer  to  the  prayer  of  a  boy.  They  stood  before  him,  and  revealing 
themselves,  wanted  to  know  what  he  desired.  Now,  his  question 
was  simple  and  direct  and  beautiful.  He  said :  I  want  to  know 
which  of  all  the  sects  of  the  day  is  the  true  church,  that  I  may  know 
which  one  to  join.    And  the  Lord  said  to  him  that,    none  of  the  sects 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


69 


are  true,  and  that  their  creeds  were  an  abomination  to  him,  and  that 
their  professors  were  teaching  for  doctrines  the  commandments  of 
men.  They  had  a  form  of  godliness  but  denied  the  power  thereof. 
Now,  mark  you,  a  moment  before  the  youth  was  confused,  he  knew  not 
which  way  to  turn,  a  moment  later  his  question  was  answered  and  he 
knew  perfectly  the  situation  and  how  to  act.  All  this  came  about  with 
him  through  the  medium  of  revelation.  Without  revelation  Joseph 
Smith,  the  boy,  and  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  would  have  been  per- 
fectly helpless. 

NO  GREATER  COMMUNICATIONS  THAN  FOUND  IN  THE  DOCTRINE  AND 

COVENANTS 

So,  we  see  this  principle  operating  throughout  our  Church  in 
its  beginning.  John  the  Baptist  appeared  and  delivered  his  power  and 
Priesthood,  and  Peter,  James  and  John  appeared  and  delivered  their 
authority — the  keys  and  power  which  they  held — and  put  them  upon 
Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet.  Let  me  say  to  you,  in  attestation  of  the 
testimony  of  this  people  and  this  Church,  we  have  a  book  of  revela- 
tions, containing  the  doctrines  and  teachings  of  the  Church.  This 
book  represents  to  us  the  voice  of  God,  yea  the  voice  of  God  to  his 
servant  Joseph  Smith  and  to  the  people  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
I  maintain  that  you  may  search  the  scriptures,  from  Genes' s  to  Rev- 
elation, and  you  will  find  no  greater  communication  to  the  children 
of  men  than  some  of  the  things  that  are  contained  in  the  book  of  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants.  Do  you  not  remember  that  mighty  revelation 
called  the  "Vision  of  the  three  glories"?  Do  you  not  remember  that 
great  and  mighty  revelation  on  Priesthood?  Do  you  not  remember, 
that  serious,  valuable  and  most  precious  revelation  pertaining  to  the 
eternity  of  the  marriage  covenant?  Could  there  be  any  religion, — 
anything  greater  than  the  truths  set  forth  in  these  mighty  revelations  ? 

POWER  AND  AUTHORITY  OF  THE  LIVING  ORACLES  OF  GOD 

And,  while  we  have  access  to  these  things,  to  holy  writ,  to  the 
scriptures  that  have  been  given,  we  also  are  permitted  to  sit  under  the 
droppings  of  the  sanctuary  and  to  listen  to  the  vo'ce  of  the  living 
oracles  of  God,  to  his  prophets,  whom  he  has  called  to  preside  over  us, 
even  President  Grant,  to  whom  has  been  committed  the  keys  of  the 
kindgom  of  heaven,  to  bind  upon  earth  and  it  shall  be  bound  in 
heaven,  to  loose  upon  eanh  and  it  shall  be  loosed  in  heaven,  "And 
whomsoever  he  blesses,"  God  has  said,  "I  will  bless ;  and  whom- 
soever he  curses,  I  will  curse."  That  is  the  power,  that  is  the 
authority  that  go  with  this  Priesthood  and  with  this  people,  and  I 
rejoice  in  it. 

I  bear  testimony  to  the  truth  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  his  prophet,  and  that  the  revelations  of  God  to  us  will  guide 
us  and  will  be  instrumental,  through  our  obedience,  of  bringing  sal- 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


vation  to  us  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  This  is  my  testimony  and  I  bear 
it  lin  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  URIAH  G.  MILLER 

(President  of  the  Cottonwood  Stake  of  Zion) 

Many  of  the  brethren  with  whom  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  being 
associated  have  known  for  a  considerable  time  that  I  have  never  been 
blessed  with  a  particularly  strong  physical  body.  They  may  have 
wondered  a  good  many  times  why  such  was  the  case.  I  think  I  can 
satisfy  that  curiosity.  About  twenty-five  years  ago,  ,soon  after  I  returned 
from  a  mission,  the  president  of  the  Salt  Lake  stake — the  Salt  Lake 
stake  at  that  time  included  all  of  Salt  Lake  county,  including  Salt  Lake 
City — called  upon  me  along  with  one  of  my  intimate  associates,  who 
had  just  returned  from  a  mission,  to  report  from  this  stand.  The  shock 
that  came  to  me  upon  that  occasion  has  stayed  with  me  to  the  present, 
and  if  you  read  tomorrow  that  something  more  drastic  than  that  has 
come  to  me,  you  may  know  the  reason  of  it. 

I  presume  that  every  president  of  a  stake  feels  somewhat  as  do  I 
in  relation  to  his  particular  work,  concerned  of  course  about  the  Church 
in  general,  but  more  directly  concerned  relative  to  the  affairs  within 
his  own  borders,  and  the  responsibilities  that  are  upon  him  to  know 
whether  or  not  he  is  rightly  and  justly  feeding  the  sheep  within  that 
fold;  whether  or  not  that,  as  the  president  of  that  corporation,  if  you 
please,  he  is  managing  the  affairs  of  that  organization  in  such  a  way 
and  in  such  a  manner  that  every  one  of  the  stockholders  therein,  the 
members  of  the  Church,  are  receiving  a  goodly  dividend  because  of  his 
honest  and  efficient  efforts  in  the  work  to-  which  he  has  been  called. 
Aside  from,  the  fundamental  principles  of  adoption,  the  truths  and 
ordinances  that  have  been  required,  that  give  us  birth,  standing,  and 
fellowship  in  the  Church  of  Christ,  my  mind,  among  my  own  people, 
often  runs  to  the  passage  of  scripture  recorded  in  Matthew,  the  words 
of  Christ,  wherein  he  says : 

"Ye  have  heard  that  it  hath  been  said:  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor, 
and  hate  thine  enemy. 

"But  I  say  unto  you,  Love  your  enemies,  bless  them  that  curse  you,  do 
good  to  them  that  hate  you,  and  pray  for  them  which  despitefully  use  you, 
and  persecute  you; 

"That  ye  may  be  the  children  of  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven." 

The  Apostle  Paul  took  up  the  trend  of  that  thought  in  his 
epistle  to  the  Ephesians  and  said  unto  them: 

"Be  kind  one  to  one  another,  tender-hearted,  forgiving  one  another,  as  God 
for  Christ's  sake  hath  forgiven  you." 

We  find  the  same  thought  also  recorded  in  the  writing  of  the 
Apostle  Peter ;  he  echoed  the  same  principles  in  his  declaration  that  we 
find  recorded  in  the  second  epistle,  in  which  he  said : 


ELDER  URIAH  G.  MILLER  71 
"Add  to  your  faith  virtue;  and  to  virtue  knowledge; 

"And  to  knowledge  temperance;  and  to  temperance  patience;  and  to 
patience  godliness; 

"And  to  godliness  brotherly  kindness;  and  to  brotherly  kindness 
charity. 

"For  if  these  things  be  in  you,  and  abound,  they  make  you  that  ye  shall 
neither  be  barren  nor  unfruitful  in  the  knowledge  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ." 

One  of  the  great  thoughts  in  my  ministry  among  the  people  aside 
from  that  to  which  I  have  already  alluded  is  whether  or  not  I  am  able 
to  draw  these  things  rightly  and  properly  to  their  view ;  whether  we 
proceed  from  day  to  day,  so  that  all  of  us  shall  be  cultivated  the  more 
thorough1/  in  these  principles  calculated  to  lead  us  more  closely  together 
here,  and  give  for  us  in  the  world  to  come  the  best  and  the  brightest 
that  God  has  ever  provided  for  his  people. 

I  am  grateful  and  thankful  for  my  opportunities  and  privileges. 
I  am  grateful  and  thankful  that  I  am  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  grateful  for  the  faith  and  prayers 
of  the  people  in  behalf  of  those  who  preside  over  them.  1  am  reminded 
now  of  a  prayer  offered  in  behalf  of  a  president  of.  a  stake,  in  which  a 
good  Scandinavian  lady  arose  and  said :  "Oh,  Lord,  bless  our  president 
that  he  may  be  honest,  from  time  to  time."  I  pray  that  the  blessings 
Df  the  Lord  may  be  with  one  and  all,  and  particularly  with  the  brethren 
who  have  been  chosen  to  lead  this  great,  mighty,  and  wonderful  organ- 
ization in  the  world,  which  I  bear  my  testimony  to  you  is  the  Church 
and  kingdom  of  God,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

/' 

ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY 

(President  of  the  Dcseret  Stake  of  Zion) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  exceedingly  timid  in  standing  be- 
fore you,  and  desire  your  'help  and  sympathy.  I  sense,  I  think,  at  least 
in  a  measure,  the  great  responsibility  that  is  upon  me  when  I  occupy 
your  time.  Every  word  that  I  utter  should  be  guided  and  inspired  by 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  it  should  be  pregnant  with  meaning  and  with 
good.    I  pray  that  it  may  be. 

As  I  have  sat  through  the  sessions  of  this  conference,  facing  this 
stand,  looking  at  the  brethren,  I  have  felt  exceedingly  happy.  I  have 
been  all  these  years  up  to  the  present,  in  this  Church,  ana  1  am  happy 
to  say  that  up  to  the  present  I  have  never  looked  upon  the  face  of  any 
of  the  general  authorities  of  the  Church  with  any  other  feeling  than 
that  of  reverence.  I  believe  that  this  reverential  feeling  was  handed  to 
me  by  my  father  and  mother.  In  days  long  since  past,  when  I  was  a 
boy,  having  been  born  at  Cove  Fort,  and  my  father  being  sent  there 
under  the  direction  of  President  Brigham  Young,  and  kept  that  place 
as  a  stage  station,  and  with  all  of  the  visitors  that  traveled  that  way 
on  that  overland  route,  I  remember  one  hour  in  the  morning  and 
one  hour,  or  occasion,  in  the  evening  that  were  sacred  to  my  father; 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


drawing  his  family  away  from  worldly  men  and  worldy  thoughts  with 
this  one  sentence :  "Let  us  go  over  aside."  We  knew  that  that  meant 
family  prayer.  I  cannot  remember  hearing  my  father  pray  when  he 
did  not  sustain,  in  his  prayer  before  the  Lord,  the  general  authorities 
of  the  Church.  I  remember  that  it  was  in  my  father's  prayer  that  he 
prayed  for  the  President  of  the  United  States.  He  prayed  for  those 
who  carried  heavy  responsibility.  I  remember  that  my  father  taught 
his  children  that  when  you  sustain  with  uplifted  hand  the  brethren, 
as  prophets,  seers  and  revelators,  you  sustain  them  with  your  life, 
your  works,  as  well  as  your  prayers ;  and  I  thank  the  Lord  that  up  to 
the  present  that  spirit  has  obtained  with  me.  When  one  of  the  brethren 
■ — Brother  Ballard— was  talking  this  morning  about  the  responsibility 
of  rearing  a  family,  I  thought  then:Jiow  grateful  I  am,  as  I  sit  here 
in  this  vast  audience  and  think  of  those  who  call  me  father,  that 
they  are  as  numerous  as  they  are  in  our  household — fourteen  such 
having  come  into  our  family. 

I  express  my  thanks  and  gratitude  to  the  Lord  for  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  and  for  the  influence  it  has  had  in  my  father's  family 
and  in  my  family,  and  I  have  a  prayer  in  my  heart  that  that  influence 
shall  go  down  through  the  generations.  It  is  a  delight  to  me,  in  my  own 
family,  to  hear  innocent  children  call  upon  the  Lord  to  bless  President 
Grant,  to  bless  his  counselors,  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  those  who 
bear  rule  in  this  Church  of  the  Lord. 

My  heart  is  in  accord  with  all  the  teachings  of  this  conference. 
I  think  that  I  should  feel,  and  I  do  feel,  almost  as  keenly,  perhaps,  as 
any  of  you,  the  importance  of  some  of  the  statements  that  have  been 
made  during  this  conference,  on  account  of  my  connection  with  the 
producer,  my  connection  with  the  farmers,  the  tillers  of  the  soil,  as  my 
way  has  led  me  through  this  state.  Only  the  other  day  I  stopped  in  a 
town,  a  railroad  center,  where  I  discovered  good  men  whom  I  knew. 
We  held  meeting  there  and  thev  came  to  meeting.   I  said,  "You  here?" 

"Yes,  I  am  here,  Brother  Plinckley." 

"Away  from  your  family?" 

"Yes,  away  from  my  family." 

"How  can  that  be,  my  brother?  You  have  good  land  and  good 
water;  why  are  you  here?" 

"Brother  Hinckley,  so  long  as  it  remains  as  it  is  now,  and  the 
prices  of  my  products  are  as  low  as  they  are  now,  and  the  workers  in 
the  various  lines  of  industry  can  draw  the  wage  that  they  can  draw,  I 
must  be  here  to  make  a  livelihood." 

The  words  of  President  Grant  entered  my  heart — the  encourage- 
ment for  us  to  stand  and  stay  upon  the  soil,  the  assurance  that  better 
times  are  coming.  I  stand  before  you  not  able  to  say,  as  some  who 
have  stood  here,  that  I  do  no',  owe  a  soul  anything  in  the  world. 
As  I  sat  here  and  listened  to  the  words  of  President  Grant, 
I  wondered  just  what  kind  of  a  feeling  that  must  cause  a  man  to  have; 


ELDER  A.  A.  HINCKLEY 


73 


and  then  I  thought  of  the  thousands  who  could  not  say  it.  I  went  over 
my  stake  of  Zion  and  I  thought  back  to  the  promise  made  by  President 
Grant  that  if  we  would  remain  faithful — I  think  he  said  his  key-note 
speech  was :  Keep  the  commandments  of  God — if  we  would  pay  our 
tithes  and  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  the  Lord  would  lead 
us  out  of  our  troubles.  I  am  following  on  in  faith  and  believing  that 
that  promise  shall  be  fulfilled.  I  hope  to  pay  my  tithing  and  to  pay  it 
honestly;  and  I  trust  the  Lord  for  his  part  in  the  fulfilment  of  the 
promise  that  he  has  made.  I  hope  to  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
that  I  may  have  strength  in  the  navel  and  marrow  to  the  bone,  and  be 
able  to  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  to  walk  and  not  faint,  and  to  have 
wisdom  given  unto  me — great  treasures  of  knowledge — that  I  shall 
know  what  to  do. 

Now,  if  I  could  offer  anything  that  would  help  that  farmer  who 
is  yet  upon  the  soil,  who  is  in  the  condition  that  I  am  in,  oh,  how  happy 
I  would  be!  I  do  believe  this  that  that  farmer  ought  not  to  run  to 
extremes  and  plant  all  in  one  line :  because  only  a  year  ago,  I  remember 
very  well,  we  were  wondering  what  we  could  do  with  hay,  and  hay  was 
piled  mountain  high  in  many  a  field,  with  no  price,  no  value.  Hay 
now  brings  a  good  price.  Now,  we  talk  about  running  to  the  extreme 
and  having  planted  too  many  potatoes.  I  believe,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  we  have  been  taught  a  long  time  by  our  agricultural  col- 
•  .  lege,  by  the  extension  division,  by  the  agriculturists  who  represent  the 
sugar  industries  and  by  the  best  farmers  in  the  state,  to  diversify,  to 
raise  something  of  all  the  things  we  need.  I  believe  it  was  Bishop 
William  B.  Preston,  who  used  to  say :  "I  can  tell  you  how  to  succeed : 
Raise  everything  you  need  and  a  little  to  sell."  I  believe  that  answers 
the  question.  We  ought  not  to  have  to  bring  on  to  our  table  that  which 
we  have  to  pay  out  money  for.  We  ought  to  raise  it;  we  ought  to 
have  it  stored  in  the  cellars  and  in  the  store-houses.  It  ought  to  be 
of  the  best  quality.  We  ought  to  raise  that  which  we  have  to  sell,  the 
kind  the  people  want  to  buy.  It  ought  to  be  the  quality  that  would 
carry  with  it  repeat  orders  that  would  come  back  to  us.  I  was  de- 
lighted when  President  Grant  said  what  he  did  about  the  dairy  industry. 
Only  the  other  day  I  was  talking  to  Brother  James  M.  Kirkham,  who 
has  been  back  in  Wisconsin,  and  I  will  add  to  what  he  said,  a  brief 
statement  also  from  Senator  C.  L.  Funk  who  had  been  back  in  Wiscon- 
sin. I  said.  Senator  Funk,  what  is  the  condition  in  Wisconsin,  that 
great  dairy  state?" 

"Oh,"  said  he,  "they  are  in  clover.  I  never  saw  greater  pros- 
perity." 

James  M.  Kirkham  was  back  there  looking  for  dairy  cows.  He 
walked  into  a  great  barn  and  wanted  to  see  what  the  man  fed  the 
cows.    He  was  told :    "Oh,  the  basic  feed  here  is  alfalfa." 

"Where  does  it  come  from?" 

"It  comes  from  Colorado." 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


He  looked  around  and  opened  a  sack,  and  said,  "What  is  this?" 

"Dried  beet  pulp." 

"Where  does  that  come  from?" 

"That  comes  from  Utah." 

Then  he  said :  "You  walk  down  to  a  cheese  store  and  when 
you  ask  him  what  he  has  there,  he  has  Wisconsin  cheese  that  you  buy." 
Cows  fed  on  Colorado  alfalfa  and  Utah  beet  pulp,  made  up  into  cheese 
back  there,  shipped  out  here  and  bought  as  Wisconsin  cheese. 

Let  me  give  you  just  one  more  thought,  if  I  may,  and  I  see  that 
I  have  gone  beyond  my  ten  minutes,  so  I  will  stop  shortly.  One  cow, 
if  she  only  gives  6,000  pounds  of  milk,  if  she  only  makes  three  hundred 
pounds  of  butter  fat,  and  if  the  butter-fat  only  brings  forty  cents 
a  pound,  will  net  you  $120  for  the  butter-fat  and  leave  the  milk  for 
pigs  and  for  chickens ;  and  that  cow  will  only  eat,  if  you  give  her 
all  she  can  eat,  if  she  eats  nine  months  in  the  year  out  of  your  hay-stack, 
four  and  one-half  tons  of  hay.  Four  and  one-half  tons  of  hay 
measured  into  $120  gives  you  $26.66  a  ton  for  your  hay.  She  will  leave 
there  with  you  several  tons  of  fertilizer.  She  will  keep  your. boy  at  home. 
She  will  give  him  a  job.  She  will  give  you  the  cheapest  and  best 
food  that  you  can  have,  and  she  will  help  lift  the  mortgage.  She  will 
feed  the  pigs  and  they  will  help  lift  the  mortgage.  She  will  feed 
the  chickens  and  they  will  help  lift  the  mortgage.  She  will  furnish 
the  fertility  to  put  on  the  beet  ground  to  draw  the  cash,  and  they 
will  help  lift  the  mortgage. 

Now,  brethren,  we  are  invited  to  stay  on  the  farm.  We  are 
invited  to  make  it  profitable  while  we  stay  on  the  farm.  It  is  pos- 
sible. It  should  be  done.  It  can  be  done,  Will  we  do  it?  I  believe 
it  is  our  duty,  under  the  Lord,  to  find  out  how  to  do  it  and  with  his 
help  do  it. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  that  the  Lord  leads  this  people, 
that  I  know  that  the  gospel  restrains  us  where  we  should  be  restrained, 
encourages  us  where  we  .should  be  encouraged,  and  develops  us  in  every 
way  we  should  be  developed.  The  Lord  help  us  to  be  true  to  it  in  every 
sense,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  chorus  sang,  "Lovely  Zion,  home  of  beauty  and  of  song," 
Myrteen  Thurmond  Stein,  soloist. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  desire  with  all  my  heart  that  the  Lord  will  bless  me  that  the  few 
moments  I  occupy  may  be  profitable  to  this  assembly. 

MEN  SEEKING  EVERYTHING  BUT  THE  WORD  OF  GOD 

We  are  living  in  a  time  when  men  are  running  to  and  fro  in  the 
earth,  seeking  almost  everything  but  the  word  of  God,  and  surely  they 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


75 


are  finding  what  they  seek.  It  would  appear  that  the  chief  desire  of 
the  human  family  at  present  is  to  discover  something  new.  Whether  it 
is  uplifting  or  not,  it  must  be  different.  They  are  trying  out  experiments 
of  every  kind,  and  many  of  them1  are  reacting  on  their  heads  in  a  very 
unprofitable  way.  Our  heavenly  Father  desires  his  children  to  be  happy. 
He  placed  our  first  parents  upon  this  earth  that  he  had  prepared  for 
them  and  beautified.  He  told  them  just  what  they  might  do  in  order 
to  enjoy  it,  and  said  that  if  they  would  listen  to  his  teachings  they 
would  be  happy  here  and  would  lay  the  foundation  for  eternal  happiness. 
From  time  to  time  he  has  repeated  and  emphasized  that  counsel  through 
his  servants,  the  prophets.  Ever  since  our  first  parents  were  placed 
in  the  Garden  of  Eden  there  has  been  an  evil  influence  at  work  that 
has  directed  men's  minds  in  selfish  channels  and  inclined  them  to  satis- 
fy their  own  personal  longing  regardless  whether  or  not  it  would 
prove  profitable  to  them.  The  Lord  gave  our  first  parents  instructions 
and  told  them  that  they  should  have  faith  in  God  and  from  then  until 
now  those  who  have  had  faith  in  him  have  been  earning  an  eternal 
reward.  They  have  rejoiced  in  the  blessing  of  a  contented  mind  and 
have  enjoyed  peace  and  happiness  that  they  could  have  had  in  no  other 
way. 

FAITH  THE  MOVING  CAUSE  OF  ACTION 

We  are  informed  that  without  faith  we  cannot  please  God.  It  is 
the  moving  cause  of  all  action,  and  Scripture  is  replete  with  evidences 
of  the  power  of  faith.  It  was  Noah's  faith  that  enabled  him  to  build 
an  ark,  and  as  a  result  of  obed:ence  to  the  commandments  of  God  he 
and  his  household  were  saved,  while  those  who  lacked  faith  were 
buried  in  the  great  flood.  It  was  through  faith  that  Lot  and  the 
members  of  his  family  were  preserved  when  fire  from  heaven  consumed 
the  cities  of  Sodom,  and  Gomorrah,  and  destroyed  the  inhabitants  who 
had  not  faith. 

ILLUSTRATIONS  OF  THE  POWER  OF  FAITH 

When  Daniel  continued  to  pray  openly  to  the  God  of  Isarel,  con- 
trary to  a  decree  which  had  been  prepared  by  his  enemies  purposely  to 
destroy  him,  he  was  cast  into  a  den  of  lions  and  left  there  all  night.  He 
knew  his  heavenly  Father  could  preserve  him  and  his  confidence  was 
unshaken.  The  next  morning  the  king  went  early  to  the  pit  and  found 
Dan:el  alive.  His  faith  had  rendered  the  wild  beasts  harmless  and 
earned  for  him  the  devotion  of  the  king.  Three  Hebrews,  Shadrach 
Meshach  and  Abednego,  who  refused  to  worship  a  golden  image  set 
up  by  Nebuchadnezzar,  were  cast  into  a  fiery  furnace  heated  seven 
t'mes  hot'.er  than  usual.  They  trusted  in  the  living  God  and  their 
faith  was  rewarded  by  the  preservation  of  their  lives.  By  faith,  the 
Prophet  Elijah  called  down  fire  fiom  heaven  to  consume  his  offering, 
and  the  king  and  the  people  were  convinced  that  the  God  of  Israel 
was  God  and  that  Baal  was  not.    It  was  by  faith  that  the  brother  of 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Jared  and  his  followers  retained  the  language  of  their  fathers  during 
the  confusion  of  tongues  at  the  Tower  of  Babel,  and  were  brought  to  this 
Western  Hemisphere  in  the  first  submarine  of  which  we  have  any 
record.  It  was  a  similar  faith  that  enabled  Lehi  to  bring  his  family 
across  the  sea  and  plant  their  feet  on  this  land,  choice  above  all  other 
lands.  It  was  faith  that  enabled  the  disciples  of  Jesus  to  endure  the 
persecution  that  overtook  them,  and  in  spite  of  the  opposition  of  the 
Jews  to  establish  the  gospel  which  the  Savior  had  delivered  to  them. 
It  was  because  of  faith  that  Joseph  Smith  went  out  into  the  woods 
and  knelt  down  to  pray.  Born  of  humble  parents  and  reared  in  a  real 
Christian  home,  he  was  imbued  with  the  teachings  of  the  Bible.  He 
believed  the  promise  recorded  in  (he  fifth  verse  of  the  first  chapter  of 
James :  ''If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth 
to  all  men  liberally,  and  upbraideth  not ;  and  it  shall  be  given  him." 
So  in  humility  he  asked  which  of  the  churches  lie  should  join  ;  and  he 
was  told  to  join  none  of  them.  1  have  no  doubt  he  was  gieatly  astonish- 
ed to  be  informed  that  not  any  of  them  was  right.  Although  but  a 
youth  he  was  told  that  he  would  be  called  upon  to  perform  an  import- 
ant labor  if  he  would  live  a  righteous  life.  This  most  remarkable  ex- 
perience was  the  result  of  faith,  and  this  youth  had  the  heavens  opened 
to  him  and  he  beheld  the  Father  and  the  Son  and  listened  to  their 
voices.  Later  he  was  given  additional  information  and  directions 
which  brought  about  the  organization  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

RESULTS  OF  THE  FAITH  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH  THE  PROPHET 

The  people  generally  were  not  satisfied  with  the  teachings  of  their 
churches,  but  because  of  lack  of  faith  were  not  able  to  find  the  truth. 
It  remained  for  this  boy,  not  yet  fifteen  years  of  age,  living  in  an 
obscure  village  to  test  the  promise  of  our  heavenly  Father,  and  to 
become  the  first  human  being  in  several  centuries  to  Know  through 
seeing  them  that  the  Father  and  Son  have  bodies  like  ours.  Through  faith 
Joseph  Smith  was  able  to  bring  forth  the  Book  of  Mormon,  translating 
the  same  from  an  ancient  language,  through  the  gift  and  power  of 
God.  By  faith,  he  was  able  to  communicate  with  heavenly  beings  and 
resist  the  temptations  of  the  adversary.  Under  the  direction  of  our 
heavenly  Father,  he  organized  the  Church  with  apostles  and  prophets ; 
in  fact  the  same  form  of  organization  as  existed  in  the  days  of  the 
Savior.  He  received  from  John  the  Baptist  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  and 
Peter,  James  and  John  conferred  upon  him  the  Higher,  or  Melchizedek, 
Priesthood,  enabling  him  to  officiate  in  all  the  ordinances  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  was  through  faith  that  those  men  who 
accepted  him  as  their  leader  were  able  to  withstand  the  assaults  of  the 
evil  one.  They  were  driven  from  place  to  place,  persecuted  and  abused ; 
but  many  of  them  remained  true  to  the  end.  They  knew  that  God  lived 
and  that  his  all-powerful  arm  would  be  extended  for  their  salvation. 
While  few  in  number  in  the  midst  of  the  communities  in  which  they 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


77 


lived  they  knew  that  the  power  of  the  heavens  would  sustain  them  if 
they  performed  their  part ;  and  that  the  power  of  evil  would  be  unable  to 
stay  the  onward  progress  of  the  Church  that  our  Father  had  again 
established  on  the  earth,  in  order  that  his  children  might  be  saved. 
It  was  often  difficult  to  overcome  the  temptations  that  beset  them, 
but  because  of  faith  in  God  and  a  determination  to  do  his  will,  they 
were  able  to  endure.  In  the  early  rise  of  the  Chur^i  faithful  mis- 
ionaries  were  sent  to  the  nat'ons  of  the  earth  to  say  to  all  people: 
Repent  ye,  for  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  at  hand.  Retain  all  the  vir- 
tues that  are  now  yours,  all  the  goodness  you  possess,  but  let  us 
divide  with  yon  the  truth  that  has  been  revealed  anew  from  heaven, 
that  you  may  add  to  the  assurance  you  now  possess  and  profit  by  it. 
Since  then  many  thousands  of  the  servants  of  the  Lord  have  traveled 
to  and  fro  in  the  earth  proclaiming  the  truth  of  the  gospel  of  our 
Lord,  the  real  gospel  of  peace,  the  only  panacea  for  the  ills  of  mankind 
if  they  but  knew  it.  During  the  past  century  Israel  has  been  gathering, 
people  have  come  from  all  parts  of  the  earth.  Tsaiah's  prediction  is 
fulfilled,  the  mountain  of  the  Lord's  house  has  been  established  in  the 
lops  of  the  mountains,  and  exalted  above  the  hills,  and  all  nations  are 
flowing  unto  it;  Men,  women  and  children,  often  in  poverty,  have  been 
willing  to  leave  their  home  land  and  loved  ones  to  cross  the  ocean  and 
the  great  plains,  with  (he  assurance  that  they  were  in  the  keeping  of  the 
Master  of  heaven  and  earth.  Thus,  for  seventy-five  years  they  have 
continued  to  come,  until  today  countless  thousands  of  the  favored 
sons  and  daughters  of  God  raise  their  voices  in  thanksgiving  and  praise, 
for  the  faith  of  those  from  whom  they  have  descended  who  dared  to 
seek  first  "the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righ'eousness,"  with  the 
assurance  that  all  things  necessary  would  be  added. 

OUR  DUTY  BECAUSE  OF  OUR  FAITH 

We  live  in  a  wonderful  age  when  the  faith  necessary  to  redeem 
mankind  is  lacking  in  most  of  the  children  of  men.  During  this 
Conference  it  has  been  stated  that  about  half  of  the  ministers  of  a 
great  church  in  the  City  of  New  York  were  not  sure  of  the  divinity 
of  Jesus  Christ.  What  is  it  they  are  lacking?  It  is  the  assurance  that 
is  possessed  by  the  members  of  the  true  Church,  due  to  serving  the  Lord. 
It  is  the  informat;on  they  refuse  that  is  offered  to  them  without  price 
by  men  divinely  commissioned  to  teach  the  promised  blessings  of  the 
Lord  resulting  from  faith ;  how  gladly  we  should  continue  our  efforts  to 
perform  the  duties  that  devolve  upon  us.  All  Latter-day  Saints  should  bow 
before  the  Lord  morning  and  evening  and  from  the  depth  of  our  souls 
express  our  gratitude  to  our  heavenly  Father.  I  hope  that  those  who 
have  received  this  wonderful  gift  of  faith  are  living  to  retain  it.  If  any 
lack  faith  it  is  because  they  have  not  kept  the  commandments  of  God. 
Those  who  do  not  honor  the  Sabbath  and  keep  it  holy,  displease  him. 
Some  people  appear  to  think  that  if  they  have  attended  religious 
meetings,  or  performed  some  portion  of  the  service  required  of  them 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

/ 

on  Sunday,  they  are  then  at  liberty  to  go  to  ball  games,  picture  shows, 
or  resorts  of  various  kinds,  and  still  continue  to  enjoy  the  favor  of 
the  Master.  I  say  to  you  that  if  they  persist  in  doing  things  of  that 
kind,  members  of  the  Church  will  lose  their  faith ;  and  the  Spirit  of  our 
heavenly  Father  will  withdraw  from  them.  Let  us  teach  our  children 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  not  leaving  that  duty  entirely  to  the  auxil- 
iary organizations.  At  our  own  firesides,  let  us  explain  to  them  the 
harmfulness  of  the  use  of  those  things  that  our  heavenly  Father  has 
forbidden;  portray  to  them  the  beauties  of  a  pure  life.  Let  us  conduct 
ourselves  so  that  they  will  see  in  us  the  benefit  derived  from  living  the 
gospel  of  our  Lord.  Let  our  homes  be  assembling  places  of  the  families 
that  God  has  blessed  us  with,  and  we  can  render  home  sacred  to  our 
dear  ones  by  associating  wi  ll  them  under  divine  influence. 

This  is  our  Father's  work.  He  has  always  desired  the  salvation 
of  all  his  children,  and  has  offered  to  everyone  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  without  money  and  without  price.  How  thankful  we  ought  to 
be,  having  heard  the  voice  of  the  Good  Shepherd !  We  have  been 
able  to  understand  the  messages  and  have  been  made  partakers  of  the 
blessings. 

THE  PATH   OF  HUMILITY,  THE  PATH   OF  SAFETY 

I  am  grateful  for  the  hospitality  of  your  homes,  and  for  kindness 
you  extend  to  me  and  my  brethren  as  we  visit  you  form  time  to  time. 
In  my  visits  to  the  miss'on  fields  I  have  rejoiced  in  the  development 
of  your  sons  and  daughters  and  in  the  increase  in  their  faith  due  to 
obedience  to  the  will  of  the  Lord.  It  is  pleasing  to  our  heavenly  Father 
to  see  us  devoting  ourselves  to  the  various  honorable  vocations  by  which 
we  earn  a  livelihood.  Sometimes  we  meet  with  reverses  and  we  are 
brought  face  to  face  with  our  inability  to  do  things  without  divine 
help,  'but  if  we  will  humble  ourselves  and  put  our  trust  in  the  Lord, 
he  will  not  forsake  us.  The  path  of  humility  is  always  the  path  of 
safe'y  for  the  members  of  he  Church. 

ADMONITION 

Husbands,  be  good  to  your  wives ;  and  wives,  be  kind  to  your  hus- 
bands ;  parents,  treasure  your  children  and  safeguard  them  in  every 
way.  Children,  honor  your  fathers  and  your  mothers,  that  your  days 
may  be  long  in  the  land  which  the  Lord  your  God  giveth  unto  you. 
Let  us  evidence  our  gratitude  to  our  heavenly  Father  for  the  many 
blessing's  bestowed  upon  us,  by  our  living  righteous  lives.  We  will 
be  tempted,  but  let  us  resist  the  insidious  advances  of  the  adversary,  and 
avoid  those  customs  and  habits  that  lead  us  away  from  the  right.  Let 
us  oppose  evil  with  all  our  power,  and  renew  our  de'ermination  to 
be  worthy  sons  and  daughters  of  God ;  let  us  pray  for  and  sustain 
Ithose  whom  the  Lord  has  called  to  preside  over  us ;  let  us  set  the 
world  an  example  of  righteousness  which  will  preach  the  gospel  as  i: 
has  never  been  preached  in  all  the  years  that  have  passed.    This  is 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


79 


our  mission  and  it  is  indeed  a  privilege  that  we  .should  prize.  We 
can  so  live  that  our  faith  can  heal  the  sick  and  stay  the  hand  of 
the  destroyer  when  he  invades  our  communities.  We  should  con- 
tinually pray  for  all  our  Father's  children,  that  they  may  turn  from 
the  error  of  their  ways.  We  should  remember  the  faithful  Saints 
that  are  scattered  among  the  nations,  and  petition  the  Lord  to  open 
their  way  that  they  may  be  gathered  out  before  the  dreadful  day  when 
the  earth  will  he  swept  by  scourges.  In  other  words,  let  us  be  real  ser- 
vants of  the  Lord,  doing  our  duty  in  all  things,  in  order  that  we  may 
receive  the  blessings  he  has  promised  the  faithful;  and  that  we  may  is 
my  humble  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  OWEN  BENNION 

(President  of  the  Duchesne  Stake  of  Zion) 

I  am  reminded  strongly,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  of  the  vision 
of  the  Prophet  Nephi  and  of  the  fruit  which  he  beheld  that  was  white 
and  delightsome  above  all  other  fruits,  and  the  strong  yearning  that 
runs  through  that  vision,  and  the  desire  that  he  had  that  his  posterity 
#and  those  who  were  associated  with  him  should  partake  of  that  fruit. 
T  feel  that  I  have  in  my  heart  the  same  yearning  that  my  brethren 
and  my  sisters  may  partake  of  that  same  fruit  through  keeping  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord,  and  I  earnestly  pray  that  what  I  say  this 
afternoon  may  contribute  to  that  end.  It  is  not  only  my  testimony, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  there  is  joy,  satisfaction,  progress  and 
prosperity  in  keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  but  it  is  my 
testimony,  through  a  recollection  extending  over  a  period  of  fifty  years, 
that  that  has  been  the  case.  I  have  known  of  no  promise  made  by 
the  servants  of  the  Lord,  either  of  reward  or  of  punishment,  in  that 
period  of  time,  but  what  has  inevitably  followed.  Whatever  the  ser- 
vants of  the  Lord  have  told  us  to  do,  that  we  have  done,  and  the  promised 
reward  has  come.  If  we  have  clone  the  opposite,  the  promised  pun- 
ishment has  come. 

As  I  listened  to  the  statistics  that  were  given  yesterday,  I  thought 
of  a  definition  that  President  Penrose,  I  think,  gave  us  one  time, 
of  the  difference  between  being  sure  and  being  certain.  He  said : 
''I  am  sure  that  the  sun  will  rise  tomorrow  morning.  I  am  certain  that 
it  rose  this  morning."  From  the  same  standpoint,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, I  can  testify  that  the  promises  that  are  made  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  if  they  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  are  certain  to 
follow. 

I  noted  yesterday  morning,  if  T  heard  aright,  in  the  figures  given 
by  Pres'dent  Grant,  that  this  past  year  we  had  about  six  thousand 
converts,  and  there  were  baptized  into  the  Church  something  over 
fourteen  thousand  children,  all,  or  in  the  main,  children  of  the  Lat- 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ter-day  Saints ;  and  I  wondered  if,  as  parents  of  Zion,  we  had  so 
trained  and  educated  those  children  that  they  understood  what  they 
were  doing  when  they  went  into  the  waters  of  baptism ;  and  I  won- 
dered if  our  example  in  life  has  been  such  and  will  continue  to  be 
such  that  the  best  result  can  come  to  those  children  from  our  examples. 
It  would  seem  to  me  that  we  have  a  very  great  responsibility.  I  would, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  every  mother  could  say  to  her  son,  "Con- 
sider well  the  ways  of  your  father,"  and  not  say  to  her  son:  "You  keep 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord,"  or,  "Your  father  is  going  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  and  the  results  will  be  good,"  but  could 
say  to  her  son :  "Consider  well  the  ways  of  your  father,  who  has 
kept  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  Consider  his  character,  his 
kindness  and  his  love  for  his  family,  his  devotion  to  his  Church,  and 
his  capability  and  value  as  a  citizen  in  the  community  wherein  he  lives ; 
and  this,  in  a  great  measure,  is  the  result  of  keeping  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord."  And  I  would  that  every  father  among  us  could  say  to 
his  daughters :  "Consider  well  the  ways  of  your  mother.  Consider 
her  kindness,  her  influence,  her  unselfishness,  her  devotion  to  you 
and  to  me,  and  to  the  work  of  the  Lord,  the  exemplary  life  that 
she  leads,  the  happiness  of  her  disposition  and  the  value  of  her  life 
that  has  resulted  therefrom.  Follow  you  in  her  footsteps."  How 
many  of  us.  brethren  and  sisters,  can  do  that?  If  we  cannot  do  it, 
the  Lord  will  hold  us  responsible,  and  we  will  suffer  therefor.  But 
that  is  not  all  of  it ;  those  children  of  ours  will  suffer  therefor,  and  a 
considerable  portion  of  the  best  part  of  their  lives  will  be  lost  through 
our  fault.  When  we  are  tempted  to  find  fault  with  our  neighbors, 
with  our  brethren  and  sisters  and  with  the  servants  of  the  Lord, 
let  us  consider  what  effect  it  will  have  on  our  children;  remembering 
that,  in  due  course  of  time,  knowing  that  the  gospel  is  true,  we  may 
come  back  into  the  fold  and  may  work  and  labor  diligently,  but  we 
cannot  undo  the  damage  that  we  have  done  to  our  children  while  we 
were  off  the  track. 

I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  be  with  us  as  parents,  that 
we  may  realize  our  responsibility,  that  we  may  set  examples  worthy 
of  imitation  before  our  children,  that  we  can  say  to  them  not  only, 
"If  you  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  you  shall  be  blessed,"  but 
we  can  say  to  them  and  we  can  show  to  them  the  effect, — that  through 
keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  we  have  been  blessed.  I  ask 
it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 

(President  of  the,  Ensign  Stake  of  Zion  and  of  the  Western  States 

Mission) 

Remembering  what  President  Clawson  had  to  say  about  my  voice 
six  months  ago,  I  don't  know  whether  I  dare  speak  into  this  amplifier 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 


81 


or  not.  He  said  that  the  rafters  of  the  building  shook.  They  may  now 
fall  upon  you. 

I  rejoice  in  the  privilege  I  have  of  meeting  with  the  Latter-day 
Saints  and  bearing  testimony  to  the  truth.  I  have  listened  with  a  great 
deal  of  interest  to  the  testimonies  that  have  been  borne.  They  bear  the 
stamp  of  the  genuine;  they  ring  true.  I  don't  know  of  any  body  of 
people  in  the  world  who  can  affirm,  as  do  the  Latter-day  Saints,  their 
faith  in  God,  and  in  the  divine  mission  of  his  Son  Jesus  Christ.  Joseph 
Smith,  the  prophet,  was  the  pioneer  in  leading  the  world  away  from  the 
worship  of  idols.  The  wonderful  vision  given  unto  him,  in  the  early 
spring  of  1820,  was  a  greater  vision,  from  a  loftier  Sinai,  than  that 
given  to  Moses  when  the  commandments  written  by  the  finger  of  God 
were  given  to  ancient  Israel ;  because,  coupled  with  that  revelation  was 
the  fulness  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  He  gave  to  the  world  a 
knowledge  that  God  is  a  personal  being,  and  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his 
Son ;  that  they  were  like  each  other,  and  that  he  was  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world  in  very  deed. 

President  Roberts  referred  to  the  fact  that  there  are  many  who 
deny  this  important  truth  in  the  Eastern  States  mission.  Dr.  Grant  to 
whom  he  referred,  together  with  Dr.  Fosdic  and  others  are  quoted  very 
frequently  by  the  people  of  the  Western  States  mission.  Not  only  this 
gentleman,  but  Mr.  Hastings  Rashdahl,  Dr.  H.  D.  A.  Major,  and  others 
who  have  presented  views  along  the  same  line,  are  being  quoted, 
in  the  Western  States  at  least,  as  leaders,  pioneers  if  you  please,  in 
the  thought  that  is  being  given  to  the  world  with  relation  to  Jesus 
Christ,  that  he  was  in  every  sense  a  man,  with  human  skill  and  intellect, 
and  in  no  sense  was  he  divine.  I  am  thankful  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
have  the  witness  of  the  Holy  Spirit  that  this  .statement  is  not  true, 
but  that  the  mission  of  Christ  was  and  is  divine. 

I  have  been  interested,  as  I  say,  in  the  positive  declarations  of  our 
brethren  and  sisters,  many  times,  with  relation  to  these  things,  particu- 
larly those  of  our  brethren  during  the  sessions  of  this  conference.  Pos- 
itive assertion  invariably  accompanies  either  deliberate  falsehood,  pro- 
found ignorance,  or  else  the  individual  has  a  definite  and  positive  knowl- 
edge of  that  which  he  speaks.  I  believe  the  statistics  which  have  been 
read  in  your  hearing  are  a  refutation  of  the  statement  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  an  ignorant  people.  Surely  none  of  them  desire  to  per- 
petuate a  falsehood,  to  speak  falsely  concerning  that  which  is  true, 
but  they  have  a  definite  and  positive  knowledge  that  God  lives,  that  he 
is  a  rewarder  of  them  that  diligently  seek  him,  and  that  Jesus  Christ  is 
the  Son  of  the  Living  God.  I  call  to  mind  the  words  of  the  Apostle 
Paul  in  speaking  to  Timothy.  He  exhorted  him  to  preach  the  word,  to 
be  instant  in  season  and  out  of  season,  to  reprove  and  rebuke  with  all 
long'-suffering',  "for,"  declared  he,  "the  time  will  come  when  men  will  not 
endure  sound  doctrine,  but  after  their  own  lusts  shall  they  heap  to 
themselves  teachers  having  itching  ears,  and  they  shall  turn  away  from 
the  truth."  The  story  that  has  been  told  you  with  reference  to  the  crea- 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


tion,  with  reference  to  the  faith  of  Daniel,  of  the  Hebrew  children,  and 
of  the  prophets  of  old,  are  considered  by  many  of  our  leading  theologians 
as  fables.  The  statement  that  Jesus  Christ's  mission  was  divine,  and 
that  he  atoned  for  the  sins  of  the  world  is  declared  to  be  "bunk."  1 
thank  the  Lord  that  in  the  day  and  age  in  which  we  live  a  mighty  prophet 
was  raised  up  to  implant  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men  faith  in 
God  and  in  his  Son.  faith  in  the  holy  scriptures,  in  the  word  of  God. 
faith  in  the  new  volume  of  scripture,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  faith  in 
the  covenant  that  God  has  made  with  Israel  in  the  day  in  which  we  live, 
for  he  has  made  a  new  covenant  with  the  people  of  this  dispensation, 
and  he  has  written  in  our  hearts  a  testimony  of  its  divine  truth. 

I  rejoice  in  the  privilege  that  is  mine  to  labor  in  the  ministry,  both 
at  home  and  abroad,  and  to  declare  the  gospel  of  repentance.  We  are 
fortified  as  no  other  people  in  the  world  are  fortified,  because  we  have 
not  only  the  word  of  God  as  it  is  contained  in  the  scriptures,  the  Holy 
Bible,  but  we  have  these  other  volumes  of  scripture,  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  and  we 
are  enabled  to  present  to  the  world  evidence  of  their  divinity,  the  one 
bearing  witness  of  the  other.  It  is  necessary  now,  when  you  come  in 
contact  with  the  great  majority  of  people,  to  prove  to  them  that  the  word 
of  God  is  true,  that  it  is  reliable,  that  it  is  authentic,  that  it  is  worth 
while  investigating.  The  Latter-day  Saints,  as  I  say,  are  lortified  with 
evidence  that  these  things  are  true. 

I  see  that  the  time  I  should  occupy  is  gone.  I  bear  you  my  witness, 
my  brethren  and  sisters  and  my  frie-ids,  that  I  do  know  that  this  is 
God's  work,  and  that  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  that  the 
Lord  did  raise  up  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  in  the  dispensation  in 
which  we  live,  to  reestablish  his  work  in  the  earth,  and  I  bear  witness 
that  it  will  continue  onward  to  the  fulfilment  of  its  destiny,  and  all 
the  powers  of  earth  and  hell  combined  can  never  stay  its  progress. 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

( Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  President  of  the  California 

Mission) 

It  is  certainly  a  very  great  privilege,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
be  permitted  to  take  part  in  a  great  conference  gathering  such  as  this 
is.  I  sincerely  hope  that  during  the  few  moments  that  have  been  al- 
lotted to  me  I  may  he  prompted  by  that  good  Spirit  that  has  been 
so  manifest  in  the  remarks  of  the  brethren  who  have  been  called  to 
occupy  this  position. 

I  am  very  glad  to  say  that  the  work  of  the  Lord  is  prospering 
in  the  California  mission.  You  have  already  heard,  from  the  open- 
ing remarks  made  by  President  Grant,  and  the  presiding  authorities  re- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W .  McMURRIN 


83 


cently  thought  it  advisable  to  establish  a  stake  of  Zion  with  head- 
quarters in  Los  Angeles,  to  be  known  as  the  Los  Angeles  stake  of 
Zion.  Elder  George  W.  McCune,  former  president  of  the  Eastern 
States  mission,  has  been  called  to  preside  as  the  president  of  the  stake, 
and  is  assisted  by  Elders  J.  Muir  and  George  F.  Harding,  who  are  his 
counselors,  and  a  company  of  stalwart  men  who  have  been  called  to 
assist  them  as  members  of  the  high  council.  A  number  of  bishops, 
all  splendid  men,  have  been  selected  and  ordained  and  have  chosen 
their  counselors ;  while  in  other  branches  the  bishops  have  not  as 
yet  been  selected.  The  people  hail  with  very  great  delight  the  ac- 
tion that  has  been  taken  by  the  presiding  authorities,  in  the  organ- 
ization of  the  stake ;  and  of  course  we  cannot  but  believe  that  with 
the  increased  number  of  men  who  will  feel  the  responsibilites  that 
have  been  placed  upon  them,  there  will  be  a  greater  movement  for- 
ward with  the  work  of  the  Lord  in  that  section  of  the  country  than 
at  any  time  in  the  past.  The  bre'Lren  who  have  been  selected  to 
fill  places  of  responsibility,  all  seem  to  sense  the  nature  of  that  re- 
sponsibility that  has  been  placed  upon  them  and  to  be  anxious  to  dis- 
charge their  duties  to  the  best  of  their  power. 

So  far  as  the  missionary  work  is  concerned,  I  am  happy  to  say, 
my  brethren  and  sis'ers,  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  with  the  young 
men  and  women  who  have  been  assigned  to  the  California  mission. 
The  only  thing  that  v/e  regret  is  that  we  do  not  have  larger  numbers 
of  men  and  women  sent  to  labor  in  that  mission ;  and  yet  I  realize 
that  vt^e  have  no  ground  to  complain,  or  to  feel  that  we  have  not  been 
considered  as  favorably  as  any  other  mission  in  the  sending  of  men 
and  women  to  operate  in  the  crying  of  repentance  and  in  expounding 
the  doctrines  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  It  has  been  and 
is  a  very  great  delight  to  me  to  have  the  companionship  of  the 
young  elders  and  the  young  sisters  who  have  been  sent  into  that  feld. 
It  is  a  source  of  never  ending  wonder  to  note  the  development  that 
takes  place  on  the  part  of  these  missionaries,  for  it  is  not  an  uncom- 
mon thing  to  find  these  young  people  sorely  depressed  in  their  feelings 
when  they  first  attempt  to  stand  up  before  the  people,  and  they  have 
but  very  little  to  say,  and  a  good  many  of  them  do  not  feel  that  they 
can  stand  up  and  bear  record  that  they  know  that  they  have  been 
called  to  preach  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  that  thev 
know  the  doctrines  thev  have  been  sent  to  teach  are  the  power  of 
Gqd  unto  salvation.  It  is  a  very  great  delight,  nevertheless,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  note  on  the  part  of  all  of  these  young  people 
that  there  is  no  disposition  to  be  in  any  way  hypocritical  or  untruth- 
ful or  in  any  way  to  pretend  that  they  are  possessed  of  knowledge 
that  has  not  been  given  to  them. 

I  would  like  to  say  to  the  fathers  and  mothers  who  may  have  sons 
and  daughters  in  California,  that  while  some  of  them  may  have  come 
into  the  mission  field  with  but  little  understanding  of  the  gospel,  they 
have  come  with  a  wonderful  spirit  of  obedience,  ready  and  willing 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  go  and  come  as  they  may  be  directed  by  proper  authority,  and  ready 
and  anxious  to  do,  to  the  very  best  of  their  power,  the  duties  that  rest 
upon  them  as  preachers  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  While 
they  may  manifest  in  the  beginning  a  considerable  degree  of  timidity 
in  their  missionary  labors,  it  has  always  been  a  source  of  great  joy  to  me 
to  discover  that  after  they  have  striven  to  the  best  of  their  power  to 
magnify  the  callings  whereunto  they  have  been  called,  they  have  been 
touched  with  the  mysterious  power  that  reveals  truths,  that  has  been 
spoken  of  in  these  conference  meetings — the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
If  there  has  been  doubt  in  their  minds  when  they  came  Into  the  mission 
field,  it  is  soon  banished  away,  and  in  a  brief  time  they  are  not  only 
willing  to  bear  record  to  the  truth  of  the  gospel  but  they  are  very 
anxious  to  have  that  opportunity ;  and  I  want  to  say  that  they  bear 
that  witness  under  the  power  and  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  the  living 
God.  They  bear  witness  in  such  a  manner  that  their  teachings  reach 
the  hearts  of  the  people  and  bring  honest  hearted  souls  to  an  investiga- 
tion of  the  message  that  has  been  committed  into  their  hands. 

I  regret  that  sometimes  there  seems  to  be  too  great  anxiety  on  the 
part  of  fathers  and  mothers  to  have  their  missionary  sons  and  daughters 
return  from  the  mission  field  earlier  than  is  desirable.  The  declaration 
has  been  made  again  and  again  by  the  presiding  authorities  that  there 
is  no  appointed  time  for  a  missionary  to>  be  in  the  mission  field.  Presi- 
dent Heber  J.  Grant,  in  one  of  our  conferences  in  1921,  set  forth  in  very 
strong  language  the  necessity  of  fathers  and  mothers  giving  their  sons 
and  daughters  an  opportunity  to  fill  a  well  rounded  out  mission ;  and 
I  would  like  to  plead  with  fathers  and  mothers  that  they  give  their  sons 
and  daughters  those  opportunities.  I  am  not  unmindful  of  the  fact 
that  we  have  been  passing  through  a  time  of  serious  financial  distress 
and  that  many  fathers  and  mothers  have  had  great  difficulty  in  obtain- 
ing the  means  necessary  to  meet  the  expenses  of  their  missionary  repre- 
sentatives in  the  mission  field.  Let  me  also  ,say,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  it  is  a  very  rare  thing  for  a  missionary  ever  to  have  the 
opportunity  of  going  the  second  time  into  the  mission  field  to  lift  up 
his  voice  in  proclamation  of  the  truth  that  has  been  restored,  and  when 
he  is  baptized  with  the  spirit  of  testimony  and  with  the  spinr  of  under- 
standing; when  his  heart  is  in  the  work  and  when  he  is 
anxious  to  cry  repentance  among  the  people,  it  is  greatly 
to  be  regretted  that  ofttimes  fathers  and  mothers,  even  when  1 
fear  there  is  no  very  great  necessity  for  such  action,  send  word  to  their 
sons  and  daughters  that  the  burden  is  more  than  they  can  bear  and  that 
because  two  years,  forsooth,  have  passed  away,  they  should  now  return 
from  the  mission  field.  I  am  happy  to  ,say  that  these  missionaries,  both 
men  and  women,  have  no  desire  to  return.  I  have  seen  them  shed 
tears  of  sorrow  when  the  announcement  has  been  made  that  they 
have  been  honorably  released  to  return  to  their  homes.  Their  hearts 
are  in  the  work  of  God.  They  are  anxious  to  magnify  their  callings ; 
and  I  think  no  father  or  mother  can  spend  money  to  any  better  advan- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRlN 


85 


tage  than  to  give  their  sons  and  daughters,  when  they  are  in  the  field,  full  ' 
opportunity  to  labor  and  to  deliver  the  message  that  has  been  committed 
into  their  hands,  and  to  become  better  and  better  established  in  the 
things  of  God. 

I  rejoice  in  their  companionship.  I  thank  God  for  the  opportunity 
of  being  with  them.  I  rejoice  in  the  gospel  that  I  am  seeking,  with 
them,  to  promulgate  in  the  California  mission,  and  I  know  it  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation ;  and  bear  witness  thereto,  with  joy  and 
gladness  in  my  soul,  and  with  understanding  and  knowledge  that  I 
speak  the  truth,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ..  Amen. 

President  Grant  read  a  telegram  from  President  Wallace  Calder 
of  the  Uintah  stake  of  Zion  asking  to  be  excused  from  presence  at  the 
Conference  owing  to  the  impassability  of  the  roads. 

The  choir  sang,  "The  Lord  is  great,  who  shall  not  fear  him?" 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  "Doxology." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  George  Bowles,  a  re- 
cently returned  missionary  from  the  Hawaiian  Islands. 

The  Conference  adjourned  until  10  a.  m.  Sunday. 

THIRD  DAY 

MORNING  SESSION 

Sunday,  April  8,  1923 

At  10  o'clock  President  Grant  announced  the  opening  hymn.  All 
the  seats  in  the  Tabernacle  were  occupied,  as  well  as  the  aisles,  and 
many  stood  during  the  services.  It  was  announced  during  the  session 
that  four  thousand  people  outdoors,  near  the  Bureau  of  Information, 
were  listening  to  the  sermons  in  the  Tabernacle  conveyed  by  radio, 
which  did  away  with  the  necessity  of  speakers  at  the  Bureau  of  Infor- 
mation. An  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  crowded 
to  the  doors. 

The  congregation  and  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  choir  sang  the 
hymn,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  labor  fear." 
Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Willard  Young. 
The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Let  the  mountains  shout  for  joy." 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

I  sincerely  desire,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  during  the  few 
moments  which  I  may  occupy  this  morning,  the  exercise  of  your  faith 
in  my  behalf  may  enable  me,  through  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon 
whom  I  depend,  to  present  properly  the  thought  which  I  have  in  my 
mind  at  this  time.  I  shall  read  first  from  the  twelfth  chapter  of  St. 
Mark,  beginning  at  the  thirteenth  verse: 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


MEANING  OF  CHRIST'S  ANSWER  TO  THE  PHARISEES 

"And  they  send  unto  him  certain  of  the  Pharisees  and  of  the  Herodians, 
to  catch  him  in  his  words. 

"And  when  they  were  come,  they  say  unto  him,  Master,  we  know  that  thou 
.art  true,  and  carest  for  no  man :  for  thou  regardest  not  the  person  of  men,  but 
teachest.the  way  of  God  in  truth:  Is  it  lawful  to  give  tribute  to  Caesar,  or  not? 

"Shall  we  give  or  shall  we  not  give?  But  he,  knowing  their  hypocrisy,  said 
unto  them,  Why  tempt  ye  me?  bring  me  a  penny,  that  I  may  see  it. 

"And  they  brought  it.  And  he  saith  unto  them,  Whose  is  this  image  and 
superscription?    And  they  said  unto  him,  Caesar's. 

"And  Jesus  answering  said  unto  them,  Render  to  Caesar  the  things  that  are 
Caesar's,  and  to  God  the  things  that  are  God's." 

In  looking  for  a  text  upon  which  to  base  the  brief  remarks  which 
I  expect  to  make,  I  thought  of  these  words  of  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world.  They  are  simple  words  and  to  the  .superficial  observer  have  little 
import  except  to  impress  upon  one  the  fact  that  inasmuch  as'  Israel 
at  the  time  was  tributary  to  Rome,  it  was  necessary  to  recognize  her 
sovereignty,  and  render  submission  to  the  system  of  taxation  which  she 
might  impose.  A  more  careful  analysis  of  this  scripture,  associating 
it  with  other  words  spoken  by  the  Redeemer,  and  the  example  of 
his  life  give  it  a  deeper  and  far  more  important  meaning.  It  may  be 
paraphrased  and  made  to  read :  Render  unto  man  that  which  belongs 
to  man,  and  to  God  that  which  pertains  to  him.  I  wish  to  make  it 
read  as  I  desire  to  interpret  its  meaning:  Render  allegiance  and  sub- 
mission to  the  laws  of  men  in  civil  government,  and  to  the  laws  of  God 
in  that  which  pertains  to  the  Kingdom  of  Heaven. 

NATURE  OF  CIVIL  AND  RELIGIOUS  LAWS 

I  suppose  that  at  a  very  early  period  of  the  existence  of  man,  it  was 
discovered  that  for  the  proper  protection  and  development  of  society 
it  was  necessary  to  enact  laws,  and  delegate  to  individuals  authority 
to  administer  and  enforce  them.  Violation  of  these  laws  subjected  the 
transgressor  to  penalties,  more  or  less  severe,  as  the  offence  justified. 

The  outward  expression  of  religion  is  the  act  of  worship,  by  which 
we  show  our  faith  in  a  supreme  being,  to  whom  we  owe  allegiance  and 
service.  Since  the  very  beginning  of  history,  in  so  far  as  it  pertains 
to  the  present  race  of  mankind,  communication  has  existed  between  our 
Father  in  heaven,  and  his  children  who  are  here  upon  earth.  At  times 
direct  communication  may  have  been  interrupted,  but  always  to  be  re- 
established, that  the  purposes  of  the  Almighty  might  not  be  frustrated. 

Certain  fundamental  laws  have  been  given  to  man,  through  obe- 
dience to  which  he  may  be  in  harmony  with  the  will  of  the  Father,  or 
out  of  harmony,  as  he  obeys  or  rejects  the  requirements  which  are  made. 
These  requirements  are  not  enforced  by  compulsory  means,  the  penalty 
being  the  loss  of  that  which  might  have  been  gained  through  obedience. 

In  contradistinction  of  this  the  civil  law  demands  obedience  whether 
we  will  or  will  not,  and  if  we  refuse,  physical  force  is  applied  to  enforce 
submission.    Briefly  stated  obedience  to  civil  law  is  compulsory,  obe- 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


87 


dience  to  the  law  given  by  the  Lord  is  entirely  optional.  For  violation 
of  the  former,  man  is  answerable  to  the  law  which  he,  himself,  has 
created;  for  violation  of  the  latter,  man  is  answerable  to  his  Makei. 

PROPER  RELATIONSHIP  BETWEEN  THE  CHURCH  AND  THE  STATE 

I  know  of  no  other  question  which  has  so  disturbed  the  peaceful 
relationship  which  should  exist  between  neighbors,  communities  and 
nations,  as  has  the  erroneous  and  perverted  opinions  which  have  pre- 
vailed regarding  the  proper  relationship  which  should  exist  between  the 
church  and  the  state,  and  the  application  and  effect  of  the  laws  given 
by  the  Lord,  and  those  enacted  by  man. 

It  is  plain  to  one  who  is  familiar  with  the  written,  and  spoken,  word 
of  the  Lord,  that  there  has  not  been,  and  is  not  now,  justifiable  cause 
for  the  misunderstanding,  but  notwithstanding  this  fact  there  has  always 
been  conflict.  You  who  are  familiar  with  the  world's  history  know 
that  there  have  been  times  when  the  state  has  waged  unrelenting  war 
upon  the  church,  and  you  are  also  aware  that  the  church  has  waged 
more  relentless  war,  if  that  were  possible,  against  those  who  differed 
from  its  views,  or  refused  submission  to  its  interpretation  of  the'  spiritual 
law. 

ILLUSTRATIONS  OF  CONFLICTS  BETWEEN  THE  CHURCH  AND  THE  STATE 

The  conflict  between  the  church  and  the  state  has  not  been  more 
vicious,  or  devoid  of  mercy,  than  has  that  which  has  prevailed  between 
people  who  were  professors  of  religion,  and  professing  to  follow  the 
same  Master. 

In  1487  the  head  of  one  church,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  he 
had  assumed  the  name  Innocent,  ordered  the  extermination  of  the 
Waldenses,  and  France,  in  obedience  to  the  decree,  drove  from  their 
homes,  to  find  asylum  in  the  Alps,  or  killed  people  who  were  among  her 
best  citizens,  because  they  dared  differ  from  others  in  their  religious 
views. 

The  massacre  of  St.  Bartholomew  will  never  be  forgotten,  and  must 
sometimes  be  atoned  for.  The  church  sent  the  Duke  of  Alva  to  the 
Netherlands  with  full  authority  to  exterminate  all  who  were  not  orthodox 
in  their  faith  and  religious  practice. 

No  human  pen  will  ever  write,  no  tongue  can  tell,  the  story  of 
suffering  and  injustice  which,  because  of  difference  in  religious  faith 
and  practice,  has  been  inflicted  upon  the  Hebrew  people.  Driven  from 
the  Promised  Land,  the  home  of  their  fathers,  they  have  been  denied 
the  right  of  citizenship,  and  refused  participation  in  the  political  and 
business  activities  of  the  world.  They  have  been  ruthlessly  slain. 
Jewish  mothers  have  looked  on  in  anguish  while  the  tongues  have  been 
torn  from  the  mouths  of  their  children,  their  hands  severed,  and  bodies 
mutilated  because  they  refused  to  renounce  their  faith,  or  deny  the  God 
of  their  fathers. 

Whatever  their  mistakes  may  have  been,  however  much  the  re- 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


sponsibility  for  their  suffering  may  rest  upon  them,  I  know  of  no 
parallel  of  faith  in,  and  devotion  to,  an  ideal,  comparable  with  that 
manifested  by  the  Jewish  people  during  the  past  1900  years.  That  they 
have  survived  it,  and  retained  their  nationalism  as  they  have  is  one  of 
the  miracles  of  the  age.  That  the  Lord  will  recognize  their  sacrifices, 
and,  in  his  own  time  and  way,  restore  them  to  their  former  place  in  his 
favor  is  certain,  for  he  who  is  definite  in  power  to  accomplish  has 
declared  it. 

Religious  fanaticism  drove  the  Puritans  from  the  old  world  to  the 
new,  where  they  hoped  to  be  free  from  bigotry  and  persecution,  and 
they  were  hardly  established  here  when  they  burned  innocent  women 
who  were  accused  of  witchcraft,  and  drove  from  their  communities 
men  who  differed  from  them  in  their  interpretation  of  the  scripture. 

It  was  because  of  difference  of  opinion  regarding  faith  and  worship 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  were  driven  from  the  state  of  Missouri,  and 
their  possessions  confiscated,  to  find  temporary  asylum  in  Illinois,  from 
which  state  they  later  migrated  to  these  mountain  valleys,  where  they 
hoped  to  find  peace  and  opportunity  to  worship  the  Lord  in  their  own 
way. 

CONFLICT  THE  RESULT  OF  IGNORANCE  OF  LAW 

I  have  frequently,  in  view  of  recent  events,  asked  myself  this  ques- 
tion: Have  we,  modern  people,  who  live  in  the  most  enlightened  and 
progressive  period  of  the  world's  history,  with  the  experience  of  the 
past  to  guide  us,  and  knowledge  of  the  future,  as  it  has  been  outlined 
by  the  prophets  who  have  lived  before,  overcome  this  needless,  unjusti- 
fiable, erroneous  conception  of  the  proper  relationship  which  exists,  or 
should  exist,  between  the  church  and  the  state?  Do  we  properly  dif- 
ferentiate between  our  obligation  of  obedience  to  civil  law,  in  the  admin- 
istration of  temporal  affairs,  and  our  obligation  to  the  church,  which 
represents  divine  law,  given  for  the  purpose  of  preparing  men  for 
future  glory  and  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven  ?  Where  conflict 
exists  between  the  two,  it  is  clearly  the  result  of  either  ignorance,  or 
wilful  misinterpretation  of  both  civil  and  ecclesiastical  law. 

THE  LORD  HAS  SPOKEN  PLAINLY  ON  SPIRITUAL  AND  TEMPORAL  AFFAIRS 

With  the  opening  of  a  gospel  dispensation  the  Lord  has  always 
spoken  plainly,  defining  the  duties  of  those  who  accept  his  word,  in 
regard  to  both  spiritual  and  temporal  affairs,  and  after  defining  our 
duties,  and  the  obligation  which  is  upon  us,  leaves  us  to  accept  and 
perform,  and  thus  gain  the  future  or  present  blessings  which  are  predi- 
cated upon  observance  of  the  law,  or  reject,  as  we  may  choose.  His 
word  to  us  upon  this  important  question,  in  the  present  dispensation,  to 
which  I  wish  to  call  particular  attention  is  no  exception. 

HIS  WORD  UPON  THIS  IMPORTANT  QUESTION 

In  the  very  early  history  of  the  Church  the  right  relationship 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS  89 


which  should  exist  between  the  church  and  state  was  raised,  and  in 
order  that  there  might  be  no  misunderstanding  in  regard  to  this  im- 
portant question  the  following  was  adopted  and  published,  and  has 
been  the  recognized  attitude  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  since  that  time. 
I  read  from  section  134  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

"We  believe  that  governments  were  instituted  of  God  for  the  benefit  of 
man ;  and  that  he  holds  men  accountable  for  their  acts  in  relation  to  them,  both 
in  making  laws  and  administering  them,  for  the  good  and  safety  of  society. 

"We  believe  that  no  government  can  exist  in  peace,  except  such  laws 
are  framed  and  held  inviolate  as  will  secure  to  each  individual  the  free  exercise 
of  conscience,  the  right  and  control  of  property,  and  the  protection  of  life. 

"We  believe  that  all  governments  necessarily  require  civil  officers  and 
magistrates  to  enforce  the  laws  of  the  same,  and  that  such  as  will  administer  the 
law  in  equity  and  justice,  should  be  sought  for  and  upheld  by  the  voice  of  the 
people,  if  a  republic,  or  the  will  of  the  sovereign. 

"We  believe  that  religion  is  instituted  of  God;  and  that  men  are  amenable 
to  him,  and  to  him  only,  for  the  exercise  of  it,  unless  their  religious  opinions 
prompt  them  to  infringe  upon  the  rights  and  liberties  of  others;  but  we  do 
not  believe  that  human  law  has  a  right  to  interfere  in  proscribing  rules  of  worship 
to  bind  the  consciences  of  men,  nor  dictate  forms  for  public  or  private  devotion ; 
that  the  civil  magistrate  should  restrain  crime,  but  never  control  conscience; 
should  punish  guilt,  but  never  suppress  the  freedom  of  the  soul.    *    *  * 

"We  believe  that  every  man  should  be  honored  in  his  station,  rulers 
and  'magistrates  as  such,  being  placed  for  the  protection  of  the  innocent,  and 
the  punishment  of  the  guilty;  and  that  to  the  laws  all  men  owe  respect  and 
deference,  as  without  them  peace  and  harmony  would  be  supplanted  by  anarchy 
and  terror ;  human  laws  being  instituted  for  the  express  purpose  of  regulating  our 
interests  as  individuals  and  nations,  between  man  and  man;  and  divine  laws  given 
of  heaven,  prescribing  rules  on  spiritual  concerns,  for  faith  and  worship,  both 
to  be  answered  by  man  to  his  Maker.    *    *  * 

"We  do  not  believe  it  just  to  mingle  religious  influence  with  civil  govern- 
ment, whereby  one  religious  society  is  fostered  and  another  proscribed  in  its 
spiritual  privileges,  and  the  individual  rights  of  its  members,  as  citizen,  denied. 

"We  believe  that  all  religious  societies  have  a  right  to  deal  with  their 
members  for  disorderly  conduct,  according  to  the  rules  and  regulations  of  such 
societies;  providing  that  such  dealings  be  for  fellowship  and  good  standing; 
but  we  do  not  believe  that  any  religious  society  has  authority  to  try  men  on  the 
right  of  property  or  life,  to  take  from  them  this  world's  goods,  or  to  put  them 
in  jeopardy  of  either  life  or  limb,  or  inflict  any  physical  punishment  upon  them. 
They  can  only  excommunicate  them  from  their  society,  and  withdraw  from  them 
their  fellowship." 

CAN  A  BETTER  BILL  OF  EIGHTS  BE  FOUND? 

I  ask  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  ask  the  people  of  the  world, 
where  can  a  better  bill  of  rights,  defining  the  proper  relationship  of 
the  Church  and  the  State,  the  civil  and  the  ecclesiastical  authority,  be 
found,  than  that  which  I  have  read?  Can  error  or  justifiable  objection 
be  found  in  it  ? 

The  Latter-day  Saints  believe  that  the  coming  of  Columbus  to 
this  continent  was  part  of  the  divine  plan  by  which  this  land,  which 
had  been  held  in  reserve,  might  become  a  place  of  refuge,  and  asylum 
for  the  oppressed  and  down-trodden  of  all  nations,  that  freedom  of 
worship,  and  exercise  of  conscience,  in  righteousness,  might  be  enjoyed 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


by  all  people.  We  believe  that  the  Lord  inspired  the  framers  of  our 
government  to  give  us  onr  legislative,  executive  and  administrative 
system  of  government,  by  which  our  laws  are  enacted  and  enforced. 
This  system,  having  been  given  of  the  Lord,  it  is  not  strange  that  the 
administration  of  our  civil  affairs  corresponds  so  nearly  with  the  or- 
ganization of  the  Church,  and  still  differs  so  greatly  in  the  one  essential 
feature. 

CONTRAST   BETWEEN    CIVIL    AND    RELIGIOUS  LAWS 

Our  civil  laws  are  enacted  by  Congress,  that  body  being  gov- 
erned, in  framing  the  law,  by  the  Constitution  of  our  country ;  by  our 
state  legislatures  under  authority  of  congress,  and  our  precincts  and 
municipalities  under  authority  granted  by  the  state  legislatures.  The 
officers  who  administer  these  laws  are  chosen  by  the  voice  of  the  peo- 
ple. The  laws  enacted  by  our  precincts  and  municipalities,  and  the 
power  of  the  lesser  judges  and  officers  who  enforce  them  are  limited  in 
regard  to  both  territorial  jurisdiction,  and  power  to  inflict  punishment. 
Legislative  laws  have  jurisdiction  over  all  of  the  people  of  the  state, 
while  congressional  laws  must  be  obeyed  in  all  parts  of  the  republic. 

Decisions  rendered  by  precinct,  municipal  or  district  judges  are 
subject  to  review,  on  appeal,  and  may  be  carried  to  the  supreme  court, 
whose  decision  is  final.  To  each  of  these  courts  authority  is  given  to 
enforce  its  decrees  by  compulsory  means.  We  may  protest,  it  may  be 
contrary  to  our  idea  of  right  and  justice,  we  may  say  that  we  will  not 
submit,  but  it  is  all  in  vain,  the  civil  law  compels  submission.  It  may 
impose  heavy  fines,  and  if  we  refuse  to  pay,  take  our  property  by  force 
to  satisfy  its  judgment.  It  may  incarcerate  us  in  prison,  for  life  if  the 
offense  justifies,  or  even  deprive  us  of  life  itself. 

In  contrast  to  this,  the  laws  which  govern  the  Church  are  given 
us  by  the  Lord  our  God.  He  is  the  author  of  them,  he  is  our  law- 
giver. He  has  revealed  to  us  the  order  of  Church  government  and 
designated  the  officers  who  are  to  administer  its  affairs.  The  ward 
organizations,  with  their  limited  administrative  powers,  the  stakes  with 
their  enlarged  jurisdiction,  and  finally  the  presiding  authorities,  who 
have  jurisdiction  over  all  of  the  affairs  of  the  Church,  have  all  been 
given  us  by  the  Lord. 

WHERE  CIVIL  AND  RELIGIOUS  POWERS  DIFFER  ENTIRELY 

The  men  who  administer  the  affairs  of  the  Church  are  its  priest- 
hood, the  word  signifying,  collectively,  those  who  are  chosen  and  or- 
dained to  perform  sacred  religious  functions.  The  powers  delegated 
to  this  body  of  priesthood,  chosen  to!  administer  the  affairs  of  the 
Church,  while  similar  to  our  civil  administration,  differs  entirely 
from  it  in  the  manner  of  administration,  let  me  read  : 

"Behold,  there  are  many  called,  but  few  are  chosen.  And  why  are  they  not 
chosen  ? 

"Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon  the  things  of  this  world,  and 
aspire  to  the  honors  of  men,  that  they  do  not  learn  this  one  lesson — 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


91 


"That  the  rights  of  the  Priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with  the 
powers  of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven  cannot  be  controlled  nor 
handled  only  up,on  the  principles  of  righteousness. 

"That  they  may  be  conferred  upon  us,  is  true;  but  when  we  undertake 
to  cover  our  sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride,  our  vain  ambition,  or  to  exercise 
control  or  dominion  or  compulsion  upon  the  souls  of  the  children  of  men,  in 
ahy  degree  of  unrighteousness,  behold,  the  heavens  withdraw  themselves ;  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved;  and  when  it  is  withdrawn,  Amen  to  the  Priest- 
hood or  authority  of  that  man.    *    *  * 

"Hence  many  are  called,  but  few  are  chosen. 

"No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the 
Priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  by  gentleness  and  meek- 
ness, and  by  love  unfeigned; 

"By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge,  which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul 
without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile." 

I  have  read  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  of  the  Church, 
section  121. 

Again  I  ask  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  can  any  just  criticism 
be  offered  to  this  plain  declaration  regarding  the  prerogatives  and 
rights  of  the  priesthood?  Can  anything  be  wrong  which  is  accom- 
plished by  persuasion,  by  long  suffering,  gentleness,  by  kindness  and 
love  unfeigned,  Where  are  we  to  find  a  definition  of  the  authority 
and  functions  of  the  priesthood  superior  to,  or  even  the  equal  of  that 
which  I  have  just  read.  If  it  exists  my  attention  has  never  been  called 
to  it. 

THE  SYSTEM  OF  CHURCH  COURTS 

It  is  true  that  a  system  of  Church  courts  has  been  given,  and 
judges  provided  whose  duty  it  is  to  watch  over  the  Church,  to  hear 
cases  where  differences  may  exist  between  Church  members,  and  to 
take  cognizance  of  cases  where  the  rules  governing  the  conduct  of 
members,  whose  acts  may  be  un-Christian,  immoral,  or  opposed  to  jus- 
tice and  righteousness,  are  concerned. 

This  system  begins  with  the  teachers,  who  are  expected  to  be 
familiar  with  the  lives  and  conduct  of  the  members  of  their  wards,  and 
who  seek  to  induce,  by  persuasion  and  love,  those  who  may  have  de- 
parted from  the  way  of  the  Lord,  to  return  to  it.  Where  members 
refuse,  or  neglect  to  be  governed  by  the  council  of  the  teachers,  their 
case  may  be  taken  to  the  bishopric,  and  if  they  fail  to  reach  a  satis- 
factory adjustment  may  be  carried  to  the  high  council,  and  from  there 
appealed  to  the  First  Presidency. 

These  Church  courts,  while  corresponding  closely  to  our  civil 
courts,  differ  entirely  from  the  latter  in  this  respect.  Whether  it  be 
the  decision  of  a  bishop's  court,  a  high  council  or  the  First  Presidency, 
no  effort  is  made  to  enforce  the  decre  contrary  to  the  will  of  the  ac- 
cused. Disinterested  men1  hear  the  case,  there  are  no  lawyers  to  in- 
terpret, or  misinterpret  the  law,  the  accused  has  the  right  to  appear 
and  speak  in  his  own  behalf,  and  to  introduce  evidence,  after  which  the 
decision  is  rendered.  If  the  accused  refuses  to  submit  to  the  findings 
of  the  court,  the  only  penalty  attached  is  the  withdrawal  of  the  hand 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of.  fellowship,  or  excommunication  from  the  Church,  after  which  he  is 
permitted  to  go  his  way  in  peace,  so  far  as  his  conscience  may  permit 
peace  to  dwell  in  his  soul. 

THE  CIVIL  LAW  COMPULSORY,  THE  CHURCH  LAW  VOLUNTARY 

The  purpose  of  this  review,  hrief  and  very  imperfect  as  it  is,  is 
to  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  civil  law  is  given  for  the  pro- 
tection and  control  of  our  temporal  affairs,  while  the  Priesthood  is 
Conferred  upon  us  for  the  control  and  development  of  the  Church : 
that  the  former  differs  from  the  latter  in  that  one  is  compulsory,  the 
other  entirely  voluntary.  To  the  civil  law  all  men  must  submit,  regard- 
less of  race,  creed  or  condition,  while  to  the  priesthood  man  may  sub- 
mit or  not,  as  he  may  choose. 

When  arraigned  before  Pilate  one  of  the  charges  brought  against 
the  Redeemer  was  that  he  was  guilty  of  sedition,  in  that  he  had  de- 
clared himself  to  be  a  king.  Yes  he  answered,  but  my  kingdom  is  not 
of  this  world.  It  was  not  a  menace  to  the  kingdom  of  Herod,  or  the 
empire  of  Rome.  His  was  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  and  had  nothing 
to  do  with  the  kingdoms  of  this  world,  except  that  he  taught  his  fol- 
lowers to  be  obedient  to  them,  but  the  people,  failing  to  distinguish  be- 
tween the  temporal  and  spiritual  could  not  comprehend. 

SUMMARY   AND  APPLICATION 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  T  reach  this  conclusion :  That  it  is 
the  duty  of  each  member  of  the  Church  to  honor  and  obey  the  law  of 
the  land,  and  sustain  the  men  who  are  chosen  to  administer  it,  in  so  far 
as  they  do  so  in  righteousness  and  justice.  That  the  Priesthood  is 
conferred  upon  us  for  the  development  and  control  of  the  Church  of 
Christ,  and  that  it  cannot  be  legitimately  used  for  any  other  purpose. 
That  whenever  we  use  it  for  the  promotion  of  personal  interests,  to 
gratify  personal  pride,  or  ambition,  or  apply  it  by  compulsion  or  re- 
straint, we  are  upon  dangerous  ground,  and  not  in  harmony  with  the 
word  of  the  Lord.  My  conception  is  that  the  exercise  of  the  Priest- 
hood can  only  be  legitimately  used  where  the  purpose  is  to  provide  equal 
opportunity  for  all,  in  the  sphere  occupied  by  each  member  of  the 
Church,  and  special  privileges  to  none,  except  as  men  may  have  merited 
honor  and  distinction  through  devotion  to  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

Do  not  understand  me  to  infer  that  men  holding  the  Priesthood 
are  not  entitled  to  participate  in  all  of  the  activities  of  the  state,  and 
enjoy  any  and  all  of  the  emoluments  to  which  citizenship  entitles  them, 
but  this  participation,  and  the  honors  which  may  come  to  them  should 
be  the  reward  of  merit;  and  the  influence  of  the  Priesthood,  as  such, 
should  not  be  used  to  accomplish  their  personal  desires. 

Neither  do  I  wish  to  infer  that  the  Priesthood  should  not  be  exer- 
cised in  the  promotion  and  development  of  the  temporal  interests  of 
the  people.  It  is  a  poor  system  of  religion,  indeed,  which  treats  only 
with  the  salvation  of  the  .souls  of  men,  while  it  leaves  their  bodies  to 
perish. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


93 


What  a  simple  thing  it  is,  and  yet  how  vitally  important.  If  the 
people  of  the  world  could  only  be  taught  obedience  to  this  doctrine,  to 
willingly  honor  and  obey  the  law  of  the  land  in  the  control  of  civil  af- 
fairs, leaving  all  men  to  answer  to  the  Lord  in  matters  of  faith  and 
worship,  each  having  decent  respect  for  rights  and  opinions  of  his 
neighbor,  thus  rendering  to  Caesar  that  which  belongs  to  Caesar,  and 
to  God  that  which  pertains  to  his  Kingdom,  peace  would  soon  prevail 
throughout  the  earth,  Christ's  Kingdom  would  be  established,  and  the 
will  of  the  Lord  would  be  done  of  earth,  as  it  is  done  in  heaven.  May 
that  day  be  hastened,  is  my  humble  prayer,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "An  angel  from  on  high,"  duet  by  Lola  Leonard 
and  Hyrum  Christensen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  following  note  was  read  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  after  ex- 
plaining that  Brother  Smith  went  out  to  ascertain  how  the  crowd  in 
front  of  the  Bureau  of  Information  was  hearing  while  President  Ivins 
was  speaking : 

President  Ivins  is  being  heard  by  about  four  thousand  people  as 
plainly  as  you  are  hearing  him.  His  voice  carries  to  the  Valley  House 
corner,  but  you  can't  catch  the  words. — George  Albert  Smith. 

I  have  a  note  from  President  Edward  J.  Wood,  announcing  that 
he  was  detained  on  account  of  a  storm  and  railroad  accident.  For 
Brother  Wood's  benefit  I  will  say  that  we  started  at  the  head  of  the 
list  of  stakes  and  have  heard  from  about  one-third  of  all  the  stake 
presidents,  each  talking  ten  minutes. 

We  will  now  hear  from  Brother  Wood  for  ten  minutes 

ELDER  EDWARD  J.  WOOD 

(President  of  the  Alberta  Stake  of  Zion) 

I  appreciate  very  much  the  privilege  of  being  with  you  this  morn- 
ing, and  am  sorry  I  was  detained  Friday  and  Saturday.  Those  living 
in  remote  places  more  fully  appreciate  the  privilege  ot  meeting  to- 
gether with  the  general  authorities  of  the  Church  than  you  who  live 
here  in  the  center  stakes  of  the  Church. 

I  have  listened  with  interest  to  the  remarks  of  President  Ivins, 
and  have  thought  of  reading  from  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  the  first 
chapter  of  the  Book  of  Abraham : 

"And,  finding  there  was  greater  happiness  and  peace  and  rest  for  me, 
I  sought  for  the  blessings  of  the  fathers,  and  the  right  whereunto  I 
should  be  ordained  to  administer  the  same;  having  been  myself  a  follower 
of  righteousness,  desiring  also  to  be  one  who  possessed  great  knowledge,  and 
to  be  a  greater  follower  of  righteousness,  and  to  possess  a  greater  knowl- 
edge, and  to  be  a  father  of  many  nations,  a  prince  of  peace,  and  desiring  to 
receive  instructions,  and  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  I  became  a 
rightful  heir,  a  High  Priest,  holding  the  right  belonging  to  the  fathers. 

"It  was  conferred  upon  me  from  the  fathers;  it  came  down  from  the 
fathersi,  from  the  beginning  of  time,  yea,  even  from  the  beginning,  or  before 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  foundations  of  the  tarth  to  the  present  time,  even  the  right  of  the 
first-horn,  on  the  first  man,  who  is  Adam,  our  first  father,  through  the 
fathers,  unto  me. 

"I  sought  for  mine  appointments  unto  the  Priesthood,  according  to 
the  appointment  of  God  unto  the  fathers  concerning  the  seed." 

I  am.  always  impressed,  in  attending  these  general  conferences — 
and  it  is  very  few  that  I  have  missed  during  the  last  twenty  years — 
with  the  thought  of  how  much  greater  power  we  would  exert  if  we  but 
fully  followed  the  example  set  by  Abraham,  if  we  would  think  so  much 
orf  our  calling  in  the  Priesthood  that  we  would  know  that  in  it  there 
is  great  happiness,  peace,  rest  and  blessings  of  the  fathers,  if  we  would 
only  righteously  seek  for  these  blessings.  Not  only  did  Abraham 
seek  for  these  blessings  for  himself,  but  he  sought  to  be  ordained 
to  administer  the  same.  If  we  had  the  faith  that  Abraham  had,  at  all 
times,  the  Lord's  blessings  would  be  poured  out  upon  us.  I  am  sure 
that  the  general  authorities  of  the  Church,  with  President  Grant  at  the 
head,  have  this  same  faith ;  but  if  we,  throughout  the  various  stakes  of 
Zion,  from  Canada,  where  I  live,  to  Mexico  in  the  South,  would  seek 
in  all  righteousness  the  happiness,  the  peace,  and  rest  and  the  content- 
ment that  conies  from  the  Priesthood;  and  then  not  be  satisfied  with 
this,  but  seek  in  all  humility  to  administer  these  blessing;,  and  explain 
these  privileges  to  those  with  whom  we  labor,  how  much  greater  would 
be  the  progress  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged ! 

I  have  spent  many  years  in  the  islands.  I  have  noted  the  extreme 
faith  of  our  Polynesian  Islanders.  They  seem  at  all  times  to  seek 
for  the  right  to  preach  the  gospel,  to  administer  in  the  ordinances 
thereof  among  their  fellow  people.  I  have  seen  the  sick  healed.  I 
have  noted  the  extreme  faith,  the  perfect  faith  which  became  a  knowl- 
edge to  many  of  them,  even  before  they  joined  the  Church  by  bap- 
tism; how  they  would  set  the  example  to  many  of  us  of  the  fact  that 
through  faith  comes  knowledge. 

I  remember  on  one  occasion  one  of  our  sisters  said  that  a  certain 
member  of  the  village  she  lived  in  had  a  very  sick  child.  The  parents 
did  not  belong  to  the  Church,  but  they  had  heard  the  doctrines  of  the 
Church  as  preached  by  the  elders.  She  asked  that  we  come  and  admin- 
ister to  the  child.  The  child  looked  like  it  was  dead ;  and  when  I  told 
her  that  it  might  be  too  late,  she  asked  me  if  I  had  the  right  to  admin- 
ister to  the  sick.  I  told  her,  yes.  She  said:  "Why  do  you  hesitate? 
If  you  will  just  lay  your  hands  on  the  child  it  will  recover."  We  were 
so  struck  with  the  extreme  faith — the  knowledge  of  this  good  sister — 
that  we  administered  to  the  child. 

We  left  the  village  shortly  after  and  did  not  .see  her  for  several 
months.  While  on  another  island  one  afternoon,  to  show  you  how  the 
Lord  works  in  a  marvelous  way  to  bring  to  the  attention  of  the  people 
his  doctrines,  I  saw  a  group  of  natives  off  under  the  trees.  They 
were  cutting  cocoannts  with  a  long  knife.  It  was  in  the  early  days 
of  the  Church,  away  back  in  1889.    At  that  time  we  had  been  per- 


ELDER  EDWARD  J.  WOOD 


95 


secuted.  I  thought  I  was  being  led  into  a  trap,  when  all  at  once  I 
noticed  the  natives  surrounding  me.  I  was  alone.  I  wondered  what 
might  take  place.  All  at  once  a  woman  stepped  out  from  the  group 
of  natives.  She  offered  me  her  hand  and  spoke  to  me,  but  I  did  not 
remember  her.  Then  she  called  a  child,  sat  the  child  on  the  stump  of  a 
cocoanut  tree,  and  'bore  this  testimony  to  the  people:  "This  child  of 
mine  is  a  living  example  of  the  power  and  mission  of  the  Church  which 
this  man  represents.  I  am  the  daughter  of  the  head  chief.  I  invite 
this  missionary  to  come  to  our  village."  They  all  paid  very  kind  respect 
while  she  preached  the  gospel  as  I  had  never  heard  any  other  native 
do.  Such  knowledge,  such  extreme  faith,  I  marveled  at.  I  followed 
her  to  her  village.  She  called  the  village  together,  and  we  had  a  very 
pleasant  evening,  and  it  was  late  in  the  night  before  I  retired  to  bed. 

In  the  morning  I  felt  something  on  my  neck,  and  I  slapped  it  with 
my  hand  and  I  was  bitten  by  a  centipede, — a  very  deadly,  poisonous 
insect  there.  My  hand  commenced  to  swell  and  the  natives  thought  I 
would  surely  die.  After  a  few  moments,  this  good  woman  (none 
of  them  belonged  to  the  Church)  heard  of  my  trouble  and  she  came  to 
me.  She  said:  "Why,  Mr.  Wood,  you  administered  to  my  child, 
administer  to  yourself  and  you  will  be  healed."  I  had  some  con- 
secrated oil  and  I  administered  to  my  hand.  The  people  crowded 
around  me.  My  hand  had  swollen  to  a  terrible  size  and  the  pain 
was  intense.  This  woman  stood  by,  and  when  I  looked  at  her  I  was 
filled  with  that  feeling  that  comes  from  the  love  and  respect  of  the 
natives  one  to  another.  The  swelling  commenced  to  go  away,  just  as 
a  person  would  take  a  cloth  off  his  hand,  and  I  wai  all  right.  She 
bore  that  testimony  to  the  people  again  that  she  knew  positively  that 
the  Lord  had  restored  again  his  Church,  and  with  it  the  former  bless- 
ings. She  then  longed  for  the  people  to  join,  so  that  they  could  preach 
to  other  towns  and  other  villages. 

I  am  pleased  to  bear  this  testimony  that  I  am  sure  the  faith 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  as  of  old,  is  increasing.  I  pray  with 
you,  that  like  Abraham  we  may  seek  in  all  diligence  and  all  humility 
the  right  to  administer  these  principles  and  these  ordinances  among 
the  children  of  men,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  would  like  to  ask  the  people  who  are  outside  of  this  building  to 
quit  whispering  and  talking  to  one  another,  for  the  benefit  of  those 
who  would  like  to  hear  what  is  going  on  in  this  building.  There  are 
a  great  many  people  outside  who  are  anxious  to  hear,  and  those  who 
are  talking  and  carrying  on  conversations  are  preventing  them  from 
having  the  privilege  of  doing  so. 


96 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 

{Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church) 

It  is  a  very  inspiring  sight,  indeed,  to  behold  the  multitude  gath- 
ered here  in  the  tabernacle,  and  then  to  see  the  gathering  on  the  out- 
side where  they  are  listening  to  the  voices  of  the  speakers,  through  a 
little  device  which  the  Lord  has  inspired  in  the  minds  of  men  to  teach 
a  very  simple  truth ;  and  I  desire  to  bear  testimony  to  that  truth,  and 
am  grateful  for  the  privilege  of  doing  so. 

Ever  since  our  early  infancy,  as  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  we  have  been  taught  to  pray  to  our  heav- 
enly Father,  knowing  and  feeling  and  believing  that  our  prayers  would 
be  heard  and  answered.  Hundreds  and  hundreds  of  our  members  bear 
testimony  that  the  Lord  has  heard  and  answered  their  prayers.  1, 
too,  know  that  the  Lord  lives  and  that  he  does  hear1  and  answer  our 
prayers.  And  now,  through  a  simple  little  device  which  the  Lord  has 
inspired  in  the  hearts  of  men,  it  is  my  faith  and  my  testimony  that  the 
Lord  is  going  to  teach  the  world  that  he  actually  can  and  does  hear  our 
prayers,  and  hears  the  prayers  of  those  who  seek  him  in  faith,  for  faith 
is  a  wonderful  power  in  the  world.  When  we  are  in  tune  with  our 
Creator,  with  our  Redeemer,  and  seek  him  in  faith,  we  are  wonderfully 
blessed,  and  our  prayers  are  heard  and  answered ;  and  this  simple  truth 
is  going  to  be  made  so  plain  and  so  positive  that  no  one  will  be  left 
in  doubt. 

I  am  grateful,  too,  that  we  are  given  our  agency — another  wonder- 
ful but  simple  truth  which  the  Lord  has  made  plain  to  us.  In  the  lines 
of  poetry  written  in  our  hymn  book,  two  verses  read  as  follows : 

"Know  this,  that  every  soul  is  free 

To  choose  his  life  and  what  he'll  be; 

For  this  eternal  truth  is  given, 

That  God  will  force  no  man  to  heaven. 

"He'll  call,  persuade,  direct  aright, 
Bless  him  with  wisdom,  love  and  light; 
In  nameless  ways  be  good  and  kind, 
But  never  force  the  human  mind." 

I  was  attending  a  quarterly  conference  of  one  of  the  stakes  of 
Zion  a  few  years  ago,  when  the  entire  conference  was  characterized 
by  testimony  bearing.  Both  men  and  women,  holding  different  stations 
in  the  stake,  were  called  upon  to  bear  their  testimonies.  At  the  close 
of  the  conference  a  good  brother  who  had  been  out  of  the  Church  for 
over  thirty  years,  came  to  the  president  of  the  stake,  witn  tears  in  his 
eyes,  and  said:  "President,  I  have  stood  it  just  as  long  as  I  can  and  I 
can  stand  it  no  longer.  At  your  first  opportunity  I  want  to  be  baptized 
again.  I  have  been  out  of  this  Church  for  thirty  years.  My  children 
have  grown  up  around  me,  many  of  them  following  my  teachings  and 
my  example,  under  the  influence  of  the  spirit  of  apostasy.  My  grand- 
children are  being  taught  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  and  I  rejoice  in 
the  fact  that  they,  as  well  as  some  of  my  children,  are  coming  back  into 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


97 


the  Church  and  receiving  its  blessings.  I  regret  that  I  have  been  out 
of  the  Church  so  much  of  my  life ;  and  while  I  have  nourished  a  grudge 
and  hard  feelings,  yet  I  have  known  in  my  heart  that  this  is  the  Church 
of  God.  Now  I  regret  those  actions.  I  regret  the  lives  of  my  children, 
that  they  have  been  nourished  largely  in  the  spirit  of  apostasy ;  now,  for 
the  remaining  years  of  my  life,  I  want  to  live  in  the  Church  and  change 
my  life  that  it  may  conform,  to  the  teachings  of  Christ,  that  I,  too,  with 
this  multitude  who  have  borne  their  testimonies,  may  enjoy  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  and  receive  forgiveness."  He  was  afterwards  baptized. 
His  children  also,  many  of  them,  turned  from  their  ways  of  apostasy 
and  came  into  the  Church.  A  glorious  privilege,  a  blessing  coming 
again  to  that  household. 

I  rejoice  in  the  blessing  of  our  agency  that  when  we  are  moved  by 
the  spirit  of  truth,  and  our  testimonies  are  so  enlarged  within  us  that 
we  are  directed  along  the  lines  of  conduct  and  action  which  bring  us 
in  keeping  and  in  touch  with  many  glorious  privileges  and  blessings. 

I  rejoice  in  my  membership  and  association  with  this  multitude  of 
men  bearing  the  holy  Priesthood.  No  place  else  in  all  the  world  can 
you  go  and  (see  a  sight  such  as  I  behold  this  moment — the  faces  of 
men  bearing  the  holy  Priesthood  gathered  together  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  all  with  an  undoubting  testimony  that  the  Lord 
lives  and  that  this  is  his  work. 

I  rejoice  in  this  wonderful  privilege  and  being  numbered  with  you 
in  this  glorious  work.  I  would  to  God  that  all  could  understand  the 
simple  truths  that  we  secure  through  the  testimony  of  the  Spirit,  for 
it  burns  within  our  hearts,  and  makes  known  to  us  the  truth.  Let 
me  admonish  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  cherish  that  little  monitor 
that  is  within  you,  for  it  will  guide  and  direct  you  in  the  ways  of 
truth  and  of  correct  and  right  living. 

I  regret  that  there  are  many  among  us  who  are  not  <±s  loyal  as  we 
should  like  to  have  them.  It  grieves  me  and  it  grieves  my  co-laborers, 
and  I  am  sure  it  grieves  the  Lord,  when  word  comes  that  our  fellows 
have  been  untrue  to  trusts  imposed  upon  them  or  in  them;  and  we, 
every  one  of  us,  know  that  it  is  wrong  when  we  are  untrue  to  a  trust, 
or  break  a  sacred  confidence.  I  pray  that  God  will  continue  to  be 
mindful  of  us  as  his  children,  that  we  may  hearken  unto  those  still 
small  whisperings  that  they  may  guide  us  always  in  the  paths  of  virtue 
and  right  and  loyalty  to  trust ;  that  we  may  be  fit  instruments  in  the 
hands  of  God  to  fulfil  his  purposes  in  the  earth;  and  do  it  without 
embarrassment  to  him  or  to  his  work.  When  any  of  us  are  caught  in 
the  snares  of  temptation  and  fall  by  the  wayside,  it  not  only  hurts  us 
individually  but  it  hurts  all  of  us.  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  continue 
to  be  mindful  of  us  that  we  may  be  more  loyal  in  the  future  than  we  have 
been  in  the  past,  loyal  to  our  callings  and  to  our  responsibilities ;  al- 
though we  are  growing  in  number,  and  today  we  seem  to  be  present 
in  goodly  number,  yet  we  are  a  handful,  as  it  were,  in  the  eyes  of  the 
world.  We  are  only  a  few  in  number  compared  to  the  great  host  in  the 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


world,  and  we  must  remember  and  know  that  where  the  Lord  requires 
responsibility,  he  expects  us  to  be  loyal  and  true  to  it.  Therefore  the 
responsibility  is  upon  our  shoulders  as  gathered  Ephraim,  living  here 
in  the  land  of  Ephraim,  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains,  in  the  midst  of  the 
everlasting  hills,  where  the  Lord  has  selected  a  gathering  place  and 
named  it  through  the  mouths  of  his  holy  prophets,  both  ancient  and 
modern.  "This  is  the  place,"  and  here  it  will  be  required  at  our  hands, 
not  only  by  our  words  but  by  our  every  day  conduct.  When  we  fall 
by  the  wayside  the  world  sees  us  because  their  eyes  are  open  upon  us, 
and  they  are  watching  the  actions  and  the  words  and  conduct  of 
the  little  handful  of  people  that  God  has  gathered  into  the  mountain 
tops  in  these  the  last  days. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  continue  to  be  watchful  and  mindful 
of  this  people,  that  we  may  be  loyal  and  true  and  faithful  and  earnest, 
seeking  day  by  day  and  laboring  day  by  day  to  fulfil  God's  purposes, 
for  where  much  is  given  much  is  required ;  and  with  that  love  of  the 
truth,  with  that  testimony  which  has  been  in  my  heart  ever  since  a 
youth,  I  pray  that  God  will  be  mindful  oi  us  and  that  he  will  continue  to 
inspire,  bless,  sustain  and  honor  those  who  are  called  to  take  the 
lead  and  to  direct :  that  God's  work  may  continue  to  grow,  and  that 
those  to  whom  responsibility  is  given,  in  whom  trust  is  imposed,  may 
be  loyal  and  true,  and  equal  to  the  responsibility,  and  receive  the  bless- 
ings that  the  Lord  has  prepared  for  the  faithful  in  the  House  of  Israel 
in  these  the  last  days. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  your  homes,  in 
your  labors,  in  all  your  righteous  undertakings,  inspire  you  and  give  you 
faith,  devotion,  humility  and  power  to  know  and  do  the  will  of  God ; 
and  by  following  the  promptings  of  that  "little  Monitor"'  within  you, 
it  is  your  right  to  know.  And  if  you  will  listen  and  hearken  unto  its 
promptings,  I  promise  you  that  you  shall  know,  and  shall  have  courage 
and  faith  to  do  the  right  and  hold  steadfast  and  true  to  the  faith,  that  it 
shall  not  be  necessary  to  go  back  and  count  your  steps  in  regret;  but 
rejoice  in  the  blessings  that  have  been  promised  to  you  as  descendants 
of  Father  Abraham  and  especially  the  chosen  of  the  Lord,  being,  most 
of  us,  of  the  house  of  Joseph  or  of  the  lineage  of  Ephraim  who  was 
especially  chosen  and  especially  blessed.  May  God  help  us  to  appreciate 
and  live  worthy  of  these  blessings  as  they  are  being  made  plain  to  us 
every  day  of  our  lives.  May  the  peace  of  the  Lord  be  with  us  and  be 
with  his  people  wherever  they  are,  whether  gathered  or  scattered.  I 
pray  for  these  blessings ;  and  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  bless  this  great 
conference, — those  who  preside  and  those  who  hearken  and  listen,  as 
members  or  as  officers.  May  God  bless  you  all  according  to  your 
righteous  needs,  both  temporally  and  spiritually,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


99 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

I  regard  it  as  a  distinctive  honor  to  be  invited  to  speak  to  this  large 
congregation  in  this,  the  Sunday  morning,  session  of  our  annual  General 
Conference,  where  every  seat  is  taken  in  this  large  tabernacle  and  hun- 
dreds of  people  are  standing,  eager  as  I  suppose,  to  hear  the  word  of 
the  Lord  as  it  shall  fall  from  the  lips  of  his  servants.  I  realize  that 
those  who  have  assembled  in  conference  are  among  the  mast  faithful 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  At  the  same  time  I  realize  that  there  are  thou- 
sands of  men  and  women  in  the  Church  who  are  just  as  faithful  as 
those  who  are  here  assembled,  but  those  who  are  of  little  faith  are  not 
wont  to  make  great  sacrifice  to  come  to  the  meetings  to  hear  the  servants 
of  the  Lord.  I  do  hope  that  by  some  means  the  excellent  instruction 
which  has  been  given  during  the  sessions  of  this  conference  may  reach 
that  class  of  people. 

THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  ARE  WELL  TAUGHT 

In  the  primitive  Church  there  were  given  officers  for  specific 
purposes,  as  there  are  officers  given  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  today:  "And  he  gave  some  apostles,  and  some 
prophets ;  and  some  evangelists ;  and  some  pastors,  and  teachers ; 
for  the  perfection  of  the  Saints,  for  the  work  of  the  ministry, 
for  the  edifying  of  the  body  of  Christ,  till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of 
the  faith  and  the  knowledge  of  the  Son  of  God  unto  a  perfect  man, 
unto  the  measure  of  the  stature  of  the  fulness  of  Christ."  The  Latter-day 
Saints  are  well  taught.  We  have  the  things  of  God  as  they  have  been 
'given  through  his  servants  in  days  that  are  past,  recorded  in  these 
.standard  works  of  the  Church — the  Holy  Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  These  books 
are  before  the  Latter-day  Saints  with  a  commandment  of  the  Lord  that 
we  shall  search  them,  for  in  them  we  think  we  have  eternal  life,  and  they 
are  they  which  testify  of  God  and  of  his  truth.  If  we,  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  were  to  read  the  scriptures  as  our  Father  in  heaven  desires  that 
we  should  do,  we  would  be  better  informed  in  regard  to  his  mind  and 
will  concerning  us.  We  would  receive  strength  of  spirit  to  live  more 
fully  the  commandments  which  he  has  given  us,  and  by  the  living  of 
those  commandments  we  would  obtain  the  blessing  of  eternal  life.  It 
seems  necessary  that  there  should  be  officers  and  authorities  in  the 
Church  to  speak  frequently  of  these  things  which  are  written,  because 
we  neglect  to  read  them  as  we  ought  to. 

BY  WORKS  AND  NOT  BY  FAITH  ONLY  ARE  WE  JUSTIFIED 

There  is  a  proneness,  I  am  sure,  on  the  part  of  many  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  to  be  hearers  of  the  word  and  to  be  satisfied  without  doing 
the  things  which  the  Lord  has  commanded  us,  which  in  our  thoughtful 
moments  we  know  are  intended  for  our  blessing  and  salvation.  It  was 
always  so.    When  our  Savior  had  finished,  practically,  his  Sermon  on 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  Mount,  he  reminded  those  whom  he  had  been  addressing,  that  not 
all  those  who  cry,  Lord,  Lord,  should  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven, 
but  those  who  do  the  will  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  and  he  likened  those 
who  heard  the  word  and  would  not  do  it  unto  a  foolish  man  who  built 
his  house  upon  the  sand,  that  when  the  rain  descended  and  the  floods 
came,  and  the  winds  blew  and  beat  upon  the  house,  it  fell,  and  great 
was  the  fall  thereof ;  while  those  who  heard  and  did  the  things  which 
he  taught  were  likened  unto  a  wise  man,  who  built  his  house  upon  the 
rock,  that  when  the  rain  descended  and  the  floods  came  and  the  winds 
blew  and  beat  upon  that  house,  it  stood,  for  it  was  founded  upon  a  rock. 

We  find  James,  "the  Just,"  and  a  "pillar"  of  the  Church  at  Jeru- 
salem, teaching : 

"Wherefore  lay  apart  all  filthiness  and  superfluity  of  naughtiness,  and 
receive  with  meekness  the  engrafted  word,  which  is  able  to  save  your  souls. 

"But  be  ye  doers  of  the  word,  and  not  hearers  only,  deceiving  your  own 
selves." 

And  further  James  said  in  explanation  of  this  principle: 

"What  doth  it  profit,  my  brethren,  though  a  man  say  he  hath  faith,  and 
have  not  works?    Can  faith  save  him? 

"If  a  brother  or  sister  be  naked  and  destitude  of  daily  food, 

"And  one  of  you  say  unto  them,  Depart '  in  peace,  be  ye  warmed  and 
filled;  notwithstanding  ye  give  them  not  those  things  which  are  needful 
to  the  body;  what  doth  it  profit? 

"Even  so,  faith,  if  it  hath  not  works,  is  dead,  being  alone. 

"Yea,  a  man  may  say,  Thou  hast  faith,  and  I  have  works;  shew  me  thy 
faith  without  thy  works,  and  I  will  shew  thee  my  faith  by  my  works. 

"Thou  believest  that  there  is  one  God;  thou  doest  well;  the  devils  also 
believe,  and  tremble.  . 

"But  wilt  thou  know,  O  vain  man,  that  faith  without  works  is  dead.'' 

"Was  not  Abraham,  our  father,  justified  by  works,  when  he  had  offered 
Isaac  his  son  upon  the  altar? 

"Seest  thou  faith  wrought  with  his  works,  and  by  works  was  taitft 
made  perfect?  _  , 

"And  the  scripture  was  fulfilled  which  saith,  Abraham  believed  tjoa, 
and  it  was  imputed  unto  him  for  righteousness;  and  he  was  called  the  friend 

°f  ^°Ye  see  then  how  that  by  works  a  man  is  justified,  and  not  by  faith 
only." 

TOO   MUCH   DEAD   FAITH    IN   THE  CHURCH 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  that  there  is  too  much  dead  faith  in  the 
Church  Those  who  have  spoken  in  this  conference,  have  a  living  faith 
in  God  and  that  which  he  has  revealed,  and  they  represent  a  large  class 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  God  bless  them  for  their  faith  and  faithful- 
ness ;  but  there  is  a  great  deal  of  dead  faith,  and  those  who  possess  it 
are  deceiving  themselves. 

Faith  is  the  first  principle  of  revealed  religion,  the  foundation  ot 
all  righteousness.  All  our  unrighteousness  is  due  to  the  want  of 
faith  If  we  had  the  faith  that  we  ought  to  have  as  Latter-day  baints, 
there  is  nothing  that  need  be  done  that  we  could  not  do.  There  is  noth- 
ing that  God  has  commanded  us  that  we  would  not  do;  and  we  should 
remember  that  it  is  not  the  profession,  it  is  not  the  intellectual  assent 


ELDER  GEORGE  E.  RICHARDS 


101 


unto  principle,  it  is  not  the  form  that  is  going  to  save,  it  is  the  doing  of 
the  things  which  the  Lord,  through  his  gospel,  has  prescribed  by  which 
we  may  attain  to  glory  and  exaltation.  Faith  in  itself  will  not  save 
us.  Knowledge  in  itself  will  not  save  us.  Men  have  to  have  knowledge 
in  order  to  be  condemned  as  well  as  to  be  saved.  The  Latter-day  Saints 
are  well  taught,  I  say,  and  if  they  will  do  as  well  as  they  know,  they  will 
obtain  salvation;  and  if  they  do  not  do  as  well  as  they  know,  condemna- 
tion will  certainly  follow,  for  this  gospel  which  we  have  received  is 
as  a  savor  of  life  unto  life  and  of  death  unto  death,  unto  those  unto 
whom  it  comes.  We  have  the  authorities  of  the  Church,  they  are  here 
to  explain  to  the  children  of  men,  in  the  Church  and  out  of  the  Church, 
the  things  which  are  necessary  to  he  done  by  them  for  their  salvation, 
but  men  and  women  who  will  not  obey  the  commandments  of  God  when 
they  hear  them  and  understand  them  will  scarcely  be  expected  to  be 
obedient  unto  the  advice  and  counsel  of  the  servants  of  God.  Many 
there  are,  as  I  have  already  said,  who  will  do  so  with  glad  hearts,  and 
will  reap  the  reward.  I  would  to  God  that  all  the  members  of  the 
Church  would  do  so  and  be  consistent  and  receive  the  blessings  which 
our  Father  in  heaven  has  so  generously  to  give  to  his  faithful  children. 

NEED  OF  DOING  THE  THINGS  WE  KNOW 

We  have  need  of  being  impressed  with  the  necessity  of  doing  the 
things  which  we  know  we  ought  to  do,  and  by  the  preaching  of  the  gos- 
pel we  may  be  thus  impressed.  Then  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  attends  us, 
as  it  has  done  in  the  various  sessions  of  this  conference,  the  people  who 
hear  may,  by  that  same  Soirit,  know  that  these  things  are  of  God,  they 
know  the  voice  of  the  Good  Shepherd,  even  though  it  be  manifest 
through  his  humble  servants.  The  Lord  has  said  :  "Whether  it  be  by  my 
own  voice,  or  by  the  mouth  of  my  servants,  it  is  the  same,"  and  the 
true  and  consistent  Latter-day  Saint  regards  it  the  same.  Let  me  read 
in  conclusion  a  few  words : 

"And  whatsoever  they  shall  speak  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost 
shall  be  scripture,  shall  be  the  will  of  the  Lord,  shall  he  the  mind  of  the 
Lord,  shall  be  the  word  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  and  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation." 

So  we  bear  our  testimony  that  we  do  speak,  not  of  our  own  strength, 
and  our  own  wisdom,  but  by  the  power  of  God  made  manifest  by  his 
Holy  Spirit.  I  promise  you  that  if  you  will  heed  the  counsels  which 
are  given  you  by  the  servants  of  God,  you  will  be  walking  in  paths 
which  are  straight  and  which  will  make  for  joy,  happiness  and  hope 
in  this  life,  and  eternal  life  in  the  world  to  come.  I  bear  my  testimony 
to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  this  effect,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "They  that  sow  in  tears  shall  reap  in  joy." 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Junius  F.  Wells,  and 
the  Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


FIRST  OVERELOW  MEETING 


An  overflow  meeting  of  the  Conference  was  held  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  at  10  o'clock,  Sunday  morning,  April  8,  1923.  There  were  close 
on  to  4,000  people  besides,  at  the  Bureau  of  Information,  who  had 
gathered  to  hear  the  remarks  that  were  made  in  the  Tabernacle  and 
transmitted  to  the  outdoors  by  radio. 

In  the  Assembly  Hall  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve,  presided. 

The  music  and  singing  were  furnished  by  the  Jordan  stake  choir, 
under  direction  of  Elder  William  M.  Cox. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "How  firm  a  foundation,  ye 
Saints  of  the  Lord." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Elias  A.  Smith,  of  the 
High  Council  of  the  Liberty  stake  of  Zion. 

A  quartette  and  a  chorus  sang  the  anthem,  "Grant  us  peace,"  by 
Evan  Stephens. 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  S.  YOUNG 

(President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission) 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters:  It  is  with  feelings  of  timidity  that  I 
stand  before  you,  because,  to  a  degree,  I  sense  the  responsibility  of  the 
position  of  a  public  instructor ;  and  that  I  may  speak  to  you  understand- 
ingly,  and  that  there  may  be  profit  in  what  shall  be  said,  I  desire  that 
my  remarks  may  be  dictated  by  the  Spirit  of  God. 

It  is  a  great  privilege,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  address  a  congrega- 
tion of  the  proportions  of  this  one,  and  one  that  rarely  comes  to  us — 
never  in  the  field  in  which  I  am  at  present  engaged.  As  I  have  the 
honor  to  preside  over  the  Northwestern  States  mission,  naturally  I  am 
deeply  interested  in  missionary  wonk.  I  am  interested  in  the  boys  and 
girls,  and  we  have  at  present  seventy-seven  in  the  Northwestern  States 
mission,  fifty-seven  young  men  and  twenty  young  ladies.  I  want  to 
say  to  you  that  they  are  representative  of  the  best  men  and  women  in 
all  this  Church,  which  means  in  all  the  world,  for  a  finer,  nobler,  and 
more  exemplary  lot  of  young  men  and  women  it  has  never  been  my 
pleasure  to  know. 

I  am  deely  interested  in  the  youth  of  Zion,  and  have  been  so  for 
many  years.  I  have  a  large  family  myself.  However,  I  am  not  in  the 
class  of  my  forebears,  but  I  am  interested  in  the  youth  of  Zion,  because 
I  recognize  this  fact,  that  upon  them  depends  the  future  of  this  work. 
The  greatest  possession,  I  believe,  that  it  is  possible  for  us  to  confer 
upon,  or  bequeath  to,  our  children  is  a  knowledge  that  this  is  the  work 
of  God,  and  to  that  end,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  a  strong  anxiety 
that  your  boys  and  girls  should  go  into  the  mission  fields,  even  though 
it  may  be  at  great  sacrifice  to  yourselves.    Those  boys  and  girls,  when 


ELDER  BRIG  HAM  S.  YOUNG 


103 


they  return  from  a  mission,  if  they  have  discharged  its  duties  as  are 
the  boys  and  girls  discharging  their  missions  who  are  now  in  the  field,  - 
when  they  come  back  to  you,  you  will  find  them  men  and  women  of 
power  and  inspiration,  their  intelligence  immeasurably  increased.  If 
you  would  contribute  the  best  that  it  is  possible  for  you  to  contribute  in 
your  day  and  time,  leave  behind  you  a  posterity  who  know  that  God 
lives.  There  is  no  higher  achievement  in  this  world,  because  it  extends 
into  eternity,  than  that  the  men  and  women,  all  of  God's  children, 
should  know  that  he  lives.  The  missionaries  come  back  to  your  communi- 
ties, and  we  endeavor  to  teach  them  to  return  with  the  spirit  of  their  mis- 
sion resting  mightily  upon  them,  that  they  may  be  a  leaven  in  your  com- 
munities for  the  dissemination  of  the  spirit  which  they  acquire  and 
which,  God  willing,  they  may  retain  when  they  return  to  you.  The 
future  of  this  world  depends  upon  these  boys  and  girls,  and  it  depends 
upon  the  strength  of  the  testimony  they  shall  acquire  that  this  is  God's 
work,  and  there  is  nothing  you  can  give  them  that  is  of  more  value  than 
the  education,  the  finishing  touches,  the  degree,  that  they  shall  acquire 
in  the  mission  field  when  they  have  graduated  in  this  great  practical 
school  of  the*  best  there  i.s  in  life.  It  teaches  them  that  this  is  the  work 
of  the  living  God.  Do  not  stint  them,  brethren  and  sisters ;  send  them 
on  missions.  You  want  them  to  be  educated.  There  is  no  branch  of 
education  that  better  fits  them  for  the  practicabilities,  the  best,  the 
highest  things  in  life,  than  will  a  knowledge  and  a  testimony  of  this, 
great  work.  This  great  fact  should  be  borne  in  upon  our  consciousness, 
that  we  will  get  just  what  we  earn  and  we  will  not  get  anything  more. 
And  your  boys  and  girls  will  earn  for  themselves  the  best  that  can  be 
conferred,  if  they  will  learn  the  fact  that  God  has  spoken  and  that  he 
has  established  his  Church.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  teaches  us  that 
the  great  thing  to  acquire  is  capacity.  What  have  you  capacity  for? 
Are  you  prepared,  through  your  educational  attainments,  to  go  into  the 
society  of  the  highly  educated?  If  so,  you  can  enjoy  that  atmosphere  in 
which  they  live.  If  you  have  not  been  educated,  you  can  not  enjoy  the 
atmosphere  of  education  :  and  according  to  your  capacity,  that  limits 
your  power  of  enjoyment,  of  understanding,  of  intelligence,  in  the 
presence  of  God  our  Father,  and  if  we,  some  of  us,  were  to  be  trans- 
ported into  his  presence,  it  would  be  bad  for  us,  because  we  could  not 
endure  his  presence ;  but  these  boys  and  girls  are  fitting  themselves  for 
these  places  that  are  to  be  occupied,  not  only  in  this  world,  but  in  the 
great  hereafter. 

I  am  reminded  of  a  dream  that  I  heard  a  man  relate.  He  said : 
"I  dreamed  that  I  had  died,  and  I  found  myself  on  a  great  rocky  plateau, 
a  smooth  shelf  of  rock ;  on  the  right  hand  rose  a  precipice  that  was  lost 
in  the  clouds.  On  the  left  hand  was  an  abyss,  the  bottom  of  which 
Was  lost  in  the  mists  which  obscured  it,  and  as  I  went  along  this 
great  rocky  shelf  my  attention  was  directed  to  a  slight  nodule  on 
the  surface  of  the  rock  sheet.  As  I  approached  it  there  issued  from 
this  nodule,  which  proved  to  be  a  cave,  a  little  man,  not  more  than  half 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

« 

I 

my  height,  and  beckoning-  to  me  he  said :  'Come  in  here,  I  want  to  see 
where  I  am  to  send  you,'  and  he  took  down,  when  I  had  entered  his 
cavern,  from  a  shelf  on  the  rock,  a  little  plaque  that  was  about  four 
by  nine  inches  in  dimension,  and  said :  'I  will  rub  my  hand  over  this 
plaque  and  your  record  will  appear  in  points  of  light  on  its  surface,  and 
according  to  your  record,  there  is  where  I  will  send  you.'  He  rubbed 
his  hand  once  over  the  plaque  and  a  few  points  of  light  appeared.  I 
looked  over  his  shoulder  with  the  utmost  anxiety  to  see  where  I  would 
be  sent.  He  turned,  when  he  had  rubbed  the  stone  once,  and  looked 
at  me  with  very  great  significance.  Again  he  passed  his  hand  over  the 
stone.  There  were  a  few  more  points  of  light  and  turning 
to  me  he  said:  'It  looks  pretty  bad  for  you,  but  I  will  rub  my  hand 
once  more  over  the  stone,'  which  he  did,  and  when  he  had  finished  he 
put  the  stone  back  on  its  shelf  and  said  to  me:  'You  won't  do.'  With 
that  he  picked  me  up  with  one  hand  and  tossed  me,  into  this  abyss  into 
which  I  sank  to  interminable  depths.  By  and  by  I  found  my  descent 
arrested.  I  stopped  and  began  to  rise  slowly  until  I  was  on  a  level  with 
the  shelf  from  which  I  had  been  thrown.  I  continued  to  rise  until  I 
found  myself  in  most  beautiful  surroundings.  The  trees  were  green, 
the  grass,  the  flowers,  the  white  bordered  walks  were  beautiful.  There 
were  mansions  on  every  hand,  and  as  I  traversed  one  of  these  splendid 
pathways  I  met  a  man  whom  I  had  known  down  below  who  had  been 
a  saloon  bum.  I  said  to  him  'Why,  Jack,  how  are  you?' 
"  'Oh  fine,'  said  he. 

"'What  are  you  doing  here?"  I  inquired. 
"  'Oh,  this  is  where  I  belong,'  he  replied. 

"I  hadn't  gone  very  far  before  I  met  another,  a  card  sharp.  'Why, 
Bill,  what  are  you  doing  here  ?' 

"  'Oh,  this  is  where  I  belong  and  where  you  belong,'  said  he. 

"It  was  a  beautiful  place,  but  I  met  only  that  kind  of  men  and 
women.  And  presently  my  attention  was  directed  to  a  great  height 
above  me,  which  I  could  see  with  perfect  distinctness,  and  I  saw  there 
my  father,  my  mother,  my  friends,  my  loved  ones,  but  I  couldn't  reach 
them  because  I  had  lived  a  life  which  entitled  me  only  fo  tne  associa- 
tion of  these  men  and  women  who  surrounded  me  in  this  beautiful 
place,  but  which,  compared  with  where  my  loved  ones  were,  was  poverty 
stricken,  and  mean  and  contemptible,  and  I  knew  that  it  was  where  I 
belonged,  because  I  had  lived  such  a  life  as  entitled  me  only  to  go  where 
I  would  have  the  society  of  such  men  as  I  had  known  and  kept  company 
with  down  on  that  earth  from  which  we  had  come  and  where  I  had 
wasted  opportunity." 

Your  boys  and  girls,  brethren  and  sisters,  are  fitting  themselves 
for  the  highest,  the  best  that  God  has  to  confer  upon  his  children. 
Give  them,  above  all  things,  a  testimony  that  this  is  God's  work,  and 
you  will  give  them  what  can  not  be  destroyed  here  or  hereafter,  and 
rhey  will  live,  and  you  will  glory  in,  as  will  God,  the  records  they  have 
achieved  here  upon  the  earth.  Let  us  be  faithful  to  opportunity.   This  is 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  S.  YOUNG 


105 


God's  work,  brethren  and  sisters.  It  can't  be  destroyed.  It  will  live.  Will 
we  live  with  it?  That  God  may  help  us  to  help  ourselves,  which  is  the 
vital  thing,  is  my  humble  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

(President  of  the  Central  States  Mission) 

I  desire  to  be  led  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  rtiy  remarks  this 
morning,  and  I  trust  that  I  may  have  your  faith  and  prayers.  This 
position  is,  to  some  extent,  a  difficult  one,  but  inasmuch  as  I  have 
been  selected  to  take  a  part,  I  desire  to  say  that  which  the  Lord  would 
have  me  say  for  the  good  of  all  who  are  here. 

There  is  no  question  in  my  mind  concerning  the  truth  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  have  learned  by  experience,  through  asso- 
ciation with  men  and  women  in  the  world,  who  know  not  the  truth,  and 
through  my  experience  with  men  and  women  who  have  been  sent  into 
the  world  to  preach  the  truth  that  there  is  power  and  genuineness  and  a 
spirit  in  this  work  in  which  we  are  engaged,  which  can  not  be  found 
elsewhere  in  the  earth.  We  would  find  this  morning,  if  we  had  the 
privilege  of  visiting  the  great  churches  of  the  day,  men  and  women, 
honorable  men  and  women  of  the  earth,  gathered  together,  worshiping 
a  God  and  believing  in  a  God  without  a  body,  without  parts,  without 
passions,  a  great  Spirit  who  fills  the  immensity  of  space  and  who  sits 
enthroned  in  yonder  heavens  on  the  top  of  a  topless  throne.  This  is  the 
conception  of  God  held  by  many  of  the  children  of  men,  outside  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  haven't  found  in  my 
experience  any  church  which  teaches,  or  representative  of  such  who  be- 
lieves, that  our  Father  is  a  personal  being  and  that  we  are  created  in  his 
image.  1  have  listened  to  one  or  two  men  not  representing  any  church, 
who  have  made  such  statements.  I  know  where  the  truth  came  from ; 
it  came  from  our  Father  through  Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet  of  God. 
I  have  wondered  just  how  long  it  would  be  before  those  who  were  dis- 
cussing the  personality  of  God  would  recognize  the  inspiration  and  au- 
thority from  which  they  took  their  remarks.  This  world  is  astray,  so 
far  as  religion  is  concerned,  and  if  it  had  not  been  for  the  revelations 
of  the  Father  to  Joseph  the  prophet,  there  never  could  have  been  any 
present  salvation  for  the  children  of  men,  for  man  may  worship  God 
with  all  sincerity,  believing  that  he  is  doing  the  right  thing,  but  if  he  is 
worshiping  in  a  way  that  is  not  ordained  of  the  Lord,  he  can  not  receive 
the  blessings  of  a  glorified  exaltation  in  the  presence  of  that  God  who 
gave  us  life.  There  is  one  way  only  by  which  men  may  be  saved  and 
that  is  through  obedience  to  law,  and  that  obedience  must  be  rendered 
by  every  man  and  every  woman  in  the  earth,  or  who  has  lived  in  the 
earth,  or  who  will  yet  come  to  the  earth,  for  salvation  is  predicated 


106 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


on  obedience  to  the  principle  and  ordinance  of  repentance  and  baptism. 

We  have  some  illustrations  in  holy  writ  covering  these  points ;  for 
example,  the  story  of  the  rich  man  and  Lazarus.  Lazarus  was  perse- 
cuted by  the  afflictions  of  the  body ;  he  was  poor  so  far  as  this 
world's  goods  were  concerned;  he  suffered  during  his  life  and  lived 
from  the  leavings  of  the  rich  man's  table.  We  are  told  that  in  time 
he  died  and  was  carried  by  the  angels  to  the  bosom  of  Abraham,  for  he 
had  served  the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob ;  had  walked  in  that 
path  which  led  him  to  Abraham,  and  Jesus  told  the  Jews  that  Abraham 
was  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  In  time  the  rich  man  died  also,  and  he 
looked  up  and  beheld  Lazarus  in  the  bosom  of  Abraham.  He  found 
that  he  himself  was  in  torment ;  he  had  not  received  what  he  expected. 
When  he  appealed  to  Abraham,  Abraham  told  him  that  he  had  re- 
ceived in  his  earth  life  that  which  was  a  pleasure  to  him,  that  which  his 
wealth  had  procured  for  him.  He  had  wasted  his  time.  He  had  not 
served  God.  whom  he  did  not  know.  So  this  man's  reward 
was  a  punishment  unto  him  and  he  said  to  father  Abraham : 
"Send  Lazarus  that  he  may  dip  the  tip  of  his  fingers  in 
water,  and  cool  my  tongue ;  for  I  am  tormented  m  this  flame."  But 
Abraham  told  him  that  where  he  was,  Lazarus  could  not  come,  and 
where  Lazarus  was,  he  could  not  come:  there  was  a  great  gulf  that 
separated  them.  Lazarus  in  his  day  had  overcome  the  wickedness  of 
the  world ;  the  other  man  had  not,  and  in  justice  of  God  one  was  in 
torment  and  the  other  in  the  kingdom  of  God  with  Abraham,  the  father 
of  the  faithful,  through  whom  all  the  nations  of  the  earth  were  to  be 
blessed. 

When  the  rich  man  discovered  that  he  could  not  receive  the  bless- 
ings of  Lazarus,  he  called  Abraham  to  send  some  one  to  the  earth  to 
warn  his  brothers,  five  of  them,  that  they  might  not  be  made  partakers 
of  his  punishment,  but  Abraham  said  unto  him :  "They  have  Moses 
and  the  prophets.  If  they  hear  rot  them  neither  will  they  be  persuaded, 
though  one  rose  from  the  dead."  The  law  of  Moses  was  in  the  earth ; 
the  words  of  the  prophets  were  there.  There  were  men  to  administer 
the  ordinances  of  the  gospel  and  it  was  not  the  privilege  of  Abraham  to 
send  a  man  direct  to  those  who  were,  undoubtedly,  willfully  neglecting 
their  opportunity. 

These  stories  and  these  illustrations  are  given  here  in  mortality  and 
they  apply  to  your  life  and  mine,  and  give  us  to  understand  that,  ac- 
cording to  the  things  we  learn  and  do  in  this  world  we  shall  be 
rewarded  and  be  blessed  and  exalted  in  that  great  life  which  awaits  the 
human  family.  Is  it  not  our  duty  to  stand  by  the  commandments  of 
God  that  we  may  have  his  Spirit,  and  that  we  may  truthfully  worship 
him  and  declare  unto  men  and  women  who  are  in  the  world  the  true 
order  of  worship? 

For  this  is  the  day  for  men  to  prepare  to  meet  their  God.  Escape 
from  punishment  hereafter  is  obtained  through  overcoming  guilt  in 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BEN  N I  ON 


107 


mortality.  The  Lord  appeared  to  men  in  this  dispensation  and  gave 
a  new  and  true  order  of  worship  and  sent  forth  men  into  the  earth  to 
declare  unto  the  children  of  men  that  they  were  in  the  depths  of  spiritual 
poverty  and  in  the  bonds  of  iniquity  and  there  could  not  come  to  them 
a  salvation  and  an  exaltation  in  the  presence  of  God  except  they  would 
repent. 

The  habits  men  sometimes  form  are  of  such  a  character  that  it 
takes  the  effort  of  a  giant  in  spirit  to  overcome  them.  It  is  easy  for 
men,  honorable,  as  they  may  be,  to  believe  that  the  Lord  will  give  unto 
them  all  they  desire.  Why,  they  say,  the  thief  on  the  cross,  when  he 
was  put  to  death,  at  the  time  of  the  Redeemer's  crucifixion,  received  a 
promise  from,  the  Christ  that  he  should  that  day  be  with  him  in 
paradise,  and  because  of  that  they  take  it  for  granted  that  he  went 
into  the  presence  of  the  Father.  But  they  have  not  read  the  scripture 
fully,  as  it  is  written,  or  they  would  readily  understand  that  the  thief 
did  not  receive  a  glory  in  the  presence  of  the  Father,  fur  we  find  re- 
corded also  that  the  Christ,  who  suffered  for  the  sins  of  the  world,  and 
was  put  to  death  in  the  flesh,  was  quickened  by  the  Spirit,  by  which  also 
he  went  and  preached  unto  the  spirits  in  prison  which  sometimes  were 
disobedient  when  once  the  long  suffering  of  God  waited  in  the  days  of 
Noah,  while  the  ark  was  preparing,  wherein  few,  that  is  eight  souls 
were  saved  by  water.  While  his  body  lay  in  the  tomb,  the  Savior 
preached  the  gospel  to  those  who  were  dead.  When  he  came  back  to  the 
earth  he  was  met  by  men  and  women,  and  particularly  by  Mary,  who 
recognized  him  first  and  attempted  to  embrace  him.  But  he  said  unto 
her :  "Touch  me  not,  for  I  ami  not  yet  ascended  to  my  Father  ;  but  go  to 
my  brethren,  and  say  unto  them,  I  ascend  unto  my  Father  and  your 
Father  and  to  my  God  and  your  God." 

If  it  were  not  for  the  revelations  of  our  Father  to  his  children 
through  Joseph  the  prophet,  in  this  dispensation,  this  body  of  people 
would  be  in  the  same  condition  that  the  w'orld  is  in,  and  take  it  for 
granted  that  the  thief  received  an  inheritance  in  the  kingdom  of  God 
and  that  there  is  nothing  to  do  but  to  repent,  even  though  it  be  at  the 
last  moment  of  time.  For  this  purpose  the  Lord  revealed  himself  that 
the  true  order  of  worship  might  be  instituted  again  among  the  children 
of  men,  that  men  and  women,  in  their  own  time  and  enjoying  free 
agency  in  mortality,  away  from  home,  as  it  were,  might  have  the  privi- 
lege, through  the  power  which  had  been  given  unto  them  by  that  Father 
who  sent  them  lo  (he  earth,  of  developing  their  character,  which  had  its 
beginning  before  this  earth  was  laid,  or  the  foundation  thereof ;  that 
they  might  in  time  claim  the  privilege  of  association  with  their  Father 
whom  they  had  learned  to  love  through  keeping  his  laws  and  walking 
in  his  paths.  From  such  doctrine  there  can  be  no  appeal,  neither  can 
any  one  prove  it  untrue.  I  have  failed  in  my  experience  in  the  mis- 
sion field,  covering  a  period  of  nearly  nineteen  years,  to  find  one  man 
who  has  been  able  to  disprove  the  logic  of  Joseph  Smith  the  prophet,  or 
who  has  ever  proved  untrue  one  single  truth  that  came  through  Joseph 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  prophet  to  us  in  our  day.  On  the  contrary,  everything  that  has  been 
taught  has  stood  the  test.  Men  and  women  have  been  brought  to  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth  and  deception  has  vanished  and  the  adversary 
has  not  the  power  that  he  had  in  the  earth  in  the  days  of  the  coming 
forth  of  this  great  Latter-day  work.  The  Priesthood,  the  power  of 
God,  is  in  the  earth  ;  the  power  to  explain  and  expound  the  scripture 
is  vested  in  men,  and  Lucifer,  neither  by  mob  law,  nor  by  an  attack  of 
the  learned  upon  the  truth,  nor  in  any  other  way,  has  ever  been  able  to 
prove  untrue  the  statements  made  constantly  by  the  elders  of  Israel. 
Show  me  the  man,  regardless  of  who  he  is,  who  can  prove  from  holy 
writ  that  God  our  eternal  Father  is  without  form)  and  without  body, 
parts  or  passions.  Let  him  write  or  teach  if  to  the  children  of  men 
and  I  promise  him,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  he  will 
prove  that  he  himself  is  wrong  and  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
is  right  in  its  doctrines  and  in  its  teachings.  Why,  the  glory  that  comes 
through  the  knowledge  of  this  gospel,  can  never  be  measured  by  the 
mind  of  men  in  mortality  who  do  not  know  the  truth. 

I  want  to  say  to  you,  in  conclusion,  I  think  there  is  not  a  single 
person  who  has  the  interest  of  a  boy  and  a  girl  at  heart  but  who  desires 
and  really  prays  and  hopes  that  they  may  have  the  privilege  of  going 
into  the  mission  field  and  bearing  testimony  of  this  truth.  The  truth 
makes  men  free,  makes  men  strong  and  absolutely  keeps  them  from 
being  overcome  by  all  the  sophistries  that  are  brought  to  bear  against 
the  true  order  of  worship;  and  bearing  testimony  of  it  qualifies  a  boy 
or  girl  for  a  future  that  can  not  be  purchased  with  money,  that  can  be 
purchased  only  by  real  experience.  Boys  and  girls  will  never  learn  at 
home  to  discuss  and  preach  the  gospel  as  they  do  away  from  home, 
for  the  spirit  of  opposition  is  not  found  here.  They  do  not  find  here 
men  who  rise  up  from  every  corner  and  say :  I  don't  believe  your 
doctrine.  They  have  not  that  chance  at  home,  but  out  in  the  mission 
field  they  have  that  opportunity. 

When  you  look  into  the  faces  of  people,  bond  or  free,  black  or 
whke,  anywhere  in  the  earth,  remember  one  thing;,  that  they  kept  their 
first  estate  to  the  extent  that  the)'  had  the  privilege  of  coming  into  the 
world  and  having  the  chance  of  keeping  their  second  estate.  We  who 
have  received  the  gospel,  owe  it  to  them  every  moment  of  our  time, 
to  labor  with  them,  not  to  fight  them;  to  show  them  the  true  order 
of  worship ;  to  pray  for  them,  to  plead  for  them.  Out  of  the  mission 
fields  of  the  earth  in  the  la,st  few  years  have  come  some  of  the  most 
wonderful  men  and  women  that  are  found  in  the  earth,  whose  testimony 
is  as  great  and  as  sure  as  those  who  have  been  reared  in  the  vallevs 
of  the  mountains.  I  tell  you  we  owe  it  to  them,  or  in  the  day  of  judg- 
ment we  may  be  called  to  account  for  a  neglect  of  duty,  when  we  had 
the  money  and  the  property  that  would  have  taken  the  message  to  a 
man  or  a  woman  who  has  not  had  the  privilege  of  receiving  it,  and  can 
not  have  that  privilege  until  he  has  obeyed  the  law. 

I  want  to  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  in  your  triumphs,  or  in 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


109 


the  times  of  adversities,  don't  forget  that  the  preaching  of  the  gospel 
is  the  life  of  your  boy  or  your  girl,  and  that  it  will  give  them  a  better 
training  than  anything  else  that  can  be  found.  I  have  a  son  in  the 
mission  field  in  Old  Mexico.  I  would  rather  he  would  be  there  than  in 
any  school  in  the  country  during  a  certain  period  of  his  life.  I  have 
had  the  privilege  of  having  in  my  mission  more  than  two  thousand  mis- 
sionaries. I  want  to  say  to  you  it  is  the  greatest  experience  I  ever  had. 
No  school  could  measure  up  to  it.  Those  who  have  been  missionaries 
are  better  qualified  to  enter  into  colleges  of  the  country.  They  are 
more  reliable,  surer,  better  men,  better  women  in  judgment.  I  tell  you 
this  gospel  is  the  perfect  law  of  liberty.  The  words  of  the  Savior  are 
true ;  they  apply  unto  these  boys  and  girls  and  to  all  of  us.  He  said  unto 
his  disciples :  "If  ye  continue  in  my  word,  then  ye  are  indeed  my 
disciples,  and  ye  shall  know  the  truth ;  and  the  truth  shall  make  you 
free."  And  may  God  give  us  the  power  and  the  privilege  and  the  faith 
and  the  protection  to  worship  him  in  .spirit  and  in  truth,  and  be  free 
so  that  we  may  be  able  to  stand  for  him  forever,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 

{President  of  the  Canadian  Mission) 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters.  If  there  was  ever  a  time  in  my  life 
when  I  was  in  need  of  the  power  of  the  Spirit  of  God  it  is  at  present. 
As  I  have  sat  and  listened  during  the  sessions  of  this  conference  to  the 
many  testimonies  that  have  been  given  by  the  brethren  who  have  occu- 
pied the  time,  I  have  been  convinced  more  and  more  of  the  greatness 
of  the  wonderful  institution  of  which  we  have  become  members.  I  have 
been  convinced  more  than  ever  before  as  I  have  listened  to  these  testi- 
monies that  this  great  Latter-day  work  deals  with  and  provides  for 
the  material  as  well  as  the  spiritual  salvation  of  the  children  of  men. 

I  have  had  the  honor  of  being  called  to  preside  over  one  of  the 
great  missions  of  the  Church.  During  the  last  month  I  have  been 
introduced  into  the  various  conferences  comprising  the  Canadian  mis- 
sion, in  connection  and  in  company  with  President  Nephi  Jensen,  who 
preceded  me  in  this  work.  He  has  been  generous  in  his  introduction  of 
me  into  the  different  branches,  to  the  different  elders,  to  the  Saints 
and  to  the  people  of  that  great  dominion.  I  want  to  say  here  that 
President  Jensen  and  his  wife  have  indeed  done  a  glorious  work,  have 
laid  a  splendid  foundation  upon  which  to  build  in  that  great  country. 
It  has  been  my  privilege  to  visit  nearly  all  of  the  missions  of  the  Church 
in  the  world,  but  I  believe  that  I  can  say  without  any  fear  of  contra- 
diction that  my  introduction  now  into  the  mission  field  has  brought 
me  in  contact  with  young  men  and  women  who  are  more  desirous 
of  promulgating  this  great  and  mighty  truth,  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


in  power  and  in  strength  to  those  with  whom  they  come  in  contact,  than 
any  others  I  have  met  at  any  other  time  of  my  life.  I  have  found  during 
my  lahors  among  them  for  this  short  period  of  time  a  most  splendid 
attitude,  a  fine  spirit. 

They  are  actuated  by  a  strong  desire  of  equipping  themselves  with  a 
knowledge  and  with  a  testimony  of  this  great  and  mighty  work,  and  I 
feel  to  praise  God,  my  eternal  Father,  for  the  opportunity  that  has 
come  to  me  in  being  worthy  of  carrying  this  great  message  of  truth 
to  an  unbelieving  world,  to  leave  with  them  my  testimony  concerning 
the  divinity  of  this  work.  I  am  grateful  to  God,  my  eternal  Father, 
that  he  has  permitted  me  to  come  in  contact  with  elders  who  are  im- 
bued with  the  Spirit  of  our  heavenly  Father.  When  I  associate  with 
them  and  witness  their  dispositions  in  proclaiming  this  gospel  and  their 
endeavor  to  have  a  testimony  come  to  them  concerning  the  divinity  of 
this  work,  I  want  to  tell  you  that  it  is  worth  all  the  means,  all  the  money 
and  all  the  time,  that  one  can  give  in  listening  to  these  young  men  and 
women  bear  their  testimony  concerning  the  divinity  of  this  great  and 
mighty  work.  I  have  known  them,  when  they  have  received  this 
testimony,  to  testify  that  God  lives ;  that  the  fulfilment  of  the  prophecy 
has  taken  place  that  came  to  John  the  Revelator  while  he  was  upon 
the  Isle  of  Patmos,  namely,  that  Irs  vision  was  opened,  and  he  made 
this  proclamation  in  the  way  of  prophecy  to  the  generations  of 
all  time,  that  he  saw  another  angel  flying  through  the  midst  of  heaven 
having  the  everlasting  gospel  to  preach  to  them  that  dwell  upon  the 
earth,  to  every  nation,  and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people.  These 
young  men  and  women  bear  this  testimony  with  power  and  strength  that 
can  not  be  misunderstood,  and  when  they  take  it  with  the  spirit  of 
humility  and  prayer  into  the  homes  of  the  honest  in  heart  there  comes 
a  joy  unspeakable,  because  it  is  taken  there  with  that  conviction  that 
those  who  listen  to  them  mistake  not,  and  many  there  are  now  who 
are  accepting  this  humble  testimony  and  the  message  they  have  to  bring. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  to  me  there  is  nothing  so  fine  and  beauti- 
ful as  knowing  that  this  is  the  work  of  God.  There  is  nothing  so 
beautiful  and  .so  fine  as  feeling  that  it  is  the  work  of  God,  and  when  I 
read  of  and  hear  repeated,  time  and  time  again,  the  visitation  of  the 
Angel  Moroni  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  there  comes  to  me  a 
testimony  that  there  is  nothing  in  the  gospel  of  Christ  that  is  negative, 
but  on  the  other  hand  everything  is  positive.  If  we  analyze  carefully 
each  visit  that  this  angel  made  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  we  will 
discover  that  he  was  absolutely  positive  in  the  message  that  he  deliv- 
ered to  him.  The  second  time  that  he  came  to  him,  we  are  told  that  the 
words  were  identical  with  the  first  message  that  was  delivered  to  him ; 
likewise  the  third  message ;  all  were  repeated  with  the  same  power,  with 
the  same  authority,  with  the  same  influence,  the  same  glory,  that  it  con- 
vinced to  that  extent  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  that  he  was  to  be  used 
as  the  instrumentality  in  bringing  about  the  restoration  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.    And  it  seems  to  me,  as  I  read  and  hear  these  things 


ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 


Ill 


repeated,  that  so  positive  was  the  angel  Moroni  in  the  delivery  of  this 
message  that  he  wanted  to  impress  more  perfectly  upon  the  mind  of  this 
young  man  the  importance  of  this  latter-day  work,  that  he  appeared  to 
him  again  the  following  day  and  gave  him  the  exact  message  that  he 
had  given  him  the  night  previous  with  the  same  power  and  the  same 
authority  that  there  was  no  mistaking  any  message  that  he  did  deliver 
and  the  purpose  of  it. 

My  hrethren  and  sisters,  I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  today  that  I 
know,  as  I  know  that  I  live,  that  God,  my  eternal  Father,  lives  and  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  his  only  begotten  Son  in  the  flesh.  I  stand  here  as  a 
living  manifestation  of  his  great  and  mighty  power.  Had  it  not  been 
for  the  Priesthood  of  God  it  would  not  have  been  my  privilege  to  live 
upon  the  earth  at  this  time  and  I  feel  that  there  is  an  obligation  resting 
upon  me,  as  a  servant  of  Almighty  God,  to  leave  a  testimony  wherever 
I  go,  wherever  the  opportunity  affords  to  give  it  to  the  children  of 
men;  and  I  know,  with  just  as  much  certainty  as  I  know  that  God  lives, 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  his  prophet,  that  he  was  used  as  the  instru- 
mentality of  God  in  establishing  this  great  and  mighty  work  here  upon 
the  earth  in  this  day  and  time,  and  blessed  is  he  or  she  who  has  the 
opportunity  and  the  privilege  of  taking  this  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  into 
the  nations  of  the  earth. 

God  bless  us  to  the  end  that  we  will  cherish  the  testimonies  that 
have  been  given  to  us  during  this  conference  that  we  might  devote  our 
time  and  our  talent  and  all  that  we  have  in  the  establishment  of  God's 
mighty  purposes  upon  this  earth,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

A  tenor  solo  was  sung  by  Elder  A.  A.  Beckstrand. 

psr"" ~^t:  ~. — ■   —        :  .V„'T?~ — r — r~"  —  "  ■ 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

(President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission) 

I  am  grateful  for  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  testimony  that 
has  come  to  me  of  the  truth  of  the  same.  In  these  days  of  doubt, 
in  these  days  of  wandering  to  and  fro,  searching  after  truth,  I  am 
grateful  that  we  have  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  the  truth,  the  thing 
that  counts  and  makes  it  possible  for  us  to  go  back  into  the  kingdom 
of  God,  provided  we  live  the  lives  we  should  live  here  upon  the  earth. 

These  men  who  are  telling  us  that  there  is  no  divinity  in  the  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  are  trying  to  wreck  the  faith  of  the  people 
of  the  earth.  These  men  who  go  around  telling  us  that  the  truths  which 
are  written  in  the  holy  scriptures  are  nothing  but  foolishness,  and  are 
so  chi'dish  that  men  of  intelligence  should  pay  no  attention  to  them, 
are  also  trying  to  destroy  faith  in  God's  work  and  Church.  I  am  glad 
that  we  have  no  apologies  to  make  to  anybody  about  the  kingdom  of 
God,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  are  not  ashamed  to  accept  the 
divinity  of  the  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ.    We  are  not  ashamed 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  accept  the  holy  scriptures  that  were  given  to  us  by  holy  prophets 
through  the  inspiration  of  God.  We  are  engaged  in  the  great  work  of 
carrying  this  message  to  the  people.  Sometimes  we  rather  feel  that  in 
the  early  days  of  the  Church  we  had  such  glorious,  powerful  mission- 
aries, which  we  did  have,  but  sometimes,  it  seems  to  me,  that  we  rather 
feel  that  the  day  of  such  missionary  spirit  and  work  are  of  the  past. 
I  want  to  bear  testimony  that  the  spirit  of  that  kind  of  missionary  work 
is  still  in  the  hearts  of  the  boys  and  girls  who  are  out  preaching  the 
gospel  in  the  world  today.  It  abides  with  them  to  the  same  extent  that 
it  did  formerly  and  they  are  the  same  kind  of  faithful,  humble  men 
and  women  who  are  preaching  the  word  today,  as  preached  it  in  the 
early  days  of  the  Church. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  auxiliaries  of  our  Church.  They  may  not 
always  show  the  great  results  that  we  have  anticipated,  but  I  want  to 
tell  you  that  the  auxiliaries  of  the  Church  are  making  and  bringing 
into  the  hearts  of  the  boys  and  girls  a  desire  to  be  clean,  a  courage  and 
a  faith  to  accept  the  call  of  God  to  go  out  and  preach  his  gospel  unto 
the  people,  making  them  feel  that  they  should  give  their  time  and 
their  energy  in  carrying  the  glad  tiding  of  great  joy  to  the  people,  sow- 
ing into  their  hearts  the  precious  seeds  of  truth.  As  they  go  out  into  the 
missionary  world,  those  seeds  grow  and  grow  rapidly,  and  the  mis- 
sionaries stand  bdfore  the  people  bearing  testimony  of  the  truth 
of  God's  work.  These  men  and  women  are  finding  God  because 
they  are  seeking  God ;  they  are  knocking  at  the  door,  and  the  door  is 
being  opened ;  they  are  searching  and  they  are  finding,  and  as  we  go  to 
God,  so  God  does  answer  our  faith,  and  prayers,  and  permits  us  to 
know  for  ourselves  the  truth  of  this  great  and  precious  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  What  wonderful  testimony  our  boys  and  girls  are 
finding  out  in  the  world.  One  boy,  one  humble  boy,  called  at  a  home 
with  some  of  his  associates  to  administer  to  a  woman  who  had  a  large 
swelling  on  her  neck.  After  the  administration  the  boy  wrote  to  his 
mother  and  said:  "Why,  mother,  when  we  took  our  hands  from  off 
her  head,  you  could  see  the  swelling  going  down.  No  one  can  tell  me, 
in  the  future,  that  there  are  not  miracles  in  these  latter  days."  What  a 
glorious  testimony.  Talk  about  the  need  of  your  boys  and  girls  in  the 
home ;  it  is  not  comparable  with  the  things  that  the  boys  and  girls  are 
learning  about  God  the  eternal  Father  in  the  mission  field.  Let  them 
remain  as  long  as  possible.  Let  them  come  into  the  field ;  because  of 
their  humility  God  will  fill  their  hearts  with  a  testimony  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Not  only  are  the  boys  and  girls  learning  about  God, 
but  they  are  finding  out  about  their  fathers  and  mothers  at  home.  When 
they  are  young,  they  some  time  go  away  from  home  for  the  night  and 
they  come  back  next  day  homesick,  for  their  fathers  and  mothers. 
Sometimes  now  our  boys  and  girls  are  homesick  for  their  fathers 
and  their  mothers ;  the  first  time  perhaps  that  they  have  been  homesick 
for  you  for  a  long  while,  homesick  because  you  have  again  come  into 
their  life,  you  have  a  point  of  contact  and  they  want  their  fathers  and 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TALYOR 


113 


their  mothers.  As  we  talk  to  them  in  their  little  rooms,  these  boys 
and  girls  of  yours  tell  us  about  their  fathers  and  mothers  at  home,  and 
they  are  grateful  for  such  men  and  women  as  you.  I  hope  that  we  will 
keep  in  close  touch  with  our  boys  and  girls,  so  that  being  far  from  us 
or  near  by,  they  shall  always  be  anxious  and  homesick  for  us.  For 
while  they  are  in  'this  condition,  they  will  be  safer  and  sweeter  and 
cleaner  in  the  sight  of  God.  A  young  man  was  lying  on  his  deathbed, 
with  his  father  as  his  side.  The  father  asked  him  if  there  was  anything 
that  he  could  do  for  him.  The  boy  replying  said,  "Yes,  after  I  am  gone, 
I  wish  you  would  bury  me  in  the  field  by  that  big  tree."  And  the  father 
asked  him  what  he  wanted  to  be  buried  in  the  field  for,  and  the  boy 
said:  "Why,  you  know,  father,  you  are  down  in  the  field  most  of 
the  time,  and  I  want  to  be  near  you."  What  a  precious  thing  to  have 
our  boys  and  girls  loving  us  so  much  that  they  are  always  wanting  to 
be  near  us !  What  a  glorious  privilege  it  is  to  send  our  boys  and  girls 
out  as  messengers  of  truth  into  the  world ! 

May  God  bless  us;  may  he  help  us;  may  we  be  faithful,  retain  a 
faithful  testimony  of  his  gospel  in  our  hearts,  and  may  we  lead  the 
lives  we  should,  I  humbly  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  ANGUS  T.  WRIGHT 

{Newly  Appointed  President  pf  the  New  Zealand  Mission) 

It  seems  unnecessary  for  me  to  say  that  it  is  a  great  pleasure  to 
be  with  you  this  morning  in  the  service  of  the  Lord.  While  I  look 
upon  your  faces  and  recognize  very  few  of  you  as  acquaintances,  yet 
I  feel  and  know  that  you  are  my  brethren,  you  are  my  sisters,  in  that 
great  cause  which  has  been  revealed  in  these  last  days. 

I  rejoice  in  this  work,  I  rejoice  to  know  that  I  have  been  counted 
worthy  to  be  called  to  go  forth  again  to  carry  this  glad  message  to 
the  nations  of  the  earth.  Thirty  odd  years  ago  I  was  called  to  New 
Zealand  .  When  I  was  called  I  hardly  knew  where  New  Zealand  was. 
I  had  to  get  a  map  to  find  out,  and  when  I  got  that  map  I  found  a  small 
spot  away  off  in  the  south  Pacific  Ocean,  seven  or  eight  thousand  miles 
away,  and  it  seemed  an  awful  long  way  from  home,  but  1  was  called  to 
that  mission.  I  never  questioned  for  a  moment  but  what  it  was  a  call 
of  the  Lord.  His  servants  had  called  me;  his  servants  had  laid  their 
hands  upon  my  head  and  blessed  me.  They  told  me  that  I  should  go  in 
peace  and  return  in  safety,  and  I  believed  as  firmly  in  that  promise  as  I 
believed  that  the  sun  would  rise  upon  the  morrow.  I  had  several 
narrow  escapes  while  there,  but  God  blessed  me  with  his  Spirit,  he 
preserved  me  in  health,  he  preserved  me  in  strength ;  he  blessed  me  that 
I  was  able  to  perform,  to  some  extent,  the  mission  that  was  expected  of 
me. 

Before  leaving  my  home  a  rather  peculiar  thing  happened  to  me. 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


President  Lewis  W.  Shurtliff,  then  president  of  our  stake,  said :  "Broth- 
er Wright,  I  desire  to  give  you  a  blessing  before  you  leave."  And  I 
told  him  I  should  be  very  glad  indeed  to  have  it,  and  he,  with  my  father- 
in-law,  Charles  F.  Middleton,  came  to  my  home,  and  President  Shurt- 
liff blessed  me,  adding,  as  has  been  stated  by  the  brethren  previously, 
when  I  was  set  apart,  that  I  should  go  in  peace  and  return  in  safety, 
but  he  made  this  additional  promise.  He  said:  "You  snail  go  and 
assist  in  the  translation  of  the  Book  of  Mormon."  Now,  I  didn't  know 
that  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  being  translated.  He,  no  doubt,  had 
heard  of  it,  but  I  remembered  that  promise,  and  when  I  landed  in 
Auckland,  with  seven  other  elders,  and  was  met  by  President  Paxman, 
he  selected  me  from  that  entire  number  to  go  down  to  that  particular 
part  of  the  island  where  this  work  was  being  done  by  Brother  Ezra 
Richards,  of  Farmington,  and  another  brother  from  Salt  Lake  City, 
and  while  there  I  had  the  privilege  of  assisting  as  scribe.  I  read  the 
manuscript,  that  had  been  corrected,  to  Sister  Marriott  who  rewrote  it 
for  the  brethren.  And  afterwards  I  was  called  to  go  to  Auckland  and 
there  I  proof  read  and  published  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  the  Maori 
language.  Now,  it  was  a  rather  convincing  thing  to  me  that  President 
Shurtliff  should  make  this  promise  to  me,  at  that  special  time  and  that 
President  Paxman,  who  had  no  way  of  knowing  of  this  particular 
promise,  should  select  me  from  that  number  to  go  to  that  particular  part 
of  the  island  and  assist,  as  had  been  promised,  and  it  was  surely  a 
testimony  to  me  that,  at  least,  I  had  been  called  by  the  proper  spirit. 
There  was  no  question  in  my  mind  when  I  was  called  whether  I  would 
go,  or  not.  Sure,  I  didn't  know  where  I  was  going.  Some  of  my  out- 
side friends,  and  I  had  a  lot  of  them,  said,  "Well,  there  are  cannibals 
down  there,  but  there  is  one  satisfaction  for  them  in  eating  you ;  they 
will  get  a  whole  mouth-full  because  you  arc  built  that  way." 

But  they  didn't  eat  me.  However,  we  met  cannibals.  I  met 
one  old  gentleman  in  particular  who  admitted  to  me  that  he  had  been 
a  cannibal,  and  he  told  me  that  the  flesh  was  sweet  and  very  much 
like  pork,  so  there  you  are! 

I  was  somewhat  surprised,  I  will  admit,  at  this  second  call.  I 
will  say,  however,  that  I  also  had  the  privilege  of  presiding,  the  last 
year  of  my  mission  there,  as  I  relieved  President  Paxman,  who  was 
released  to  return  home,  and  1  had  the  privilege  of  directing  the  labors 
in  that  mission  for  one  year,  but  it  is  thirty-three  or  thirty-four 
years  since,  and  I  am  getting  old,  so  they  tell  me.  That  is  the  only 
objection  that  anybody  has  ever  made  to  my  present  call,  they  thought 
I  was  getting  too  old,  but  1  can  not  realize  that.  I  feel  yet  that  I  am 
only  a  kid,  and  my  mind  is  just  as  alert — I  couldn't  ride  a  horse  just 
as  well  as  I  did  then.  I  couldn't,  perhaps,  walk  just  as  far  as  we  had  to 
sometimes,  but  otherwise  I  feel  just  as  capable,  just  as  alert,  just  as 
much  filled  with  that  desire  and  that  ambition  and  that  Spirit  of  God, 
as  I  ever  have  been  in  my  life,  so  I  think  these  friends  who  would  like 


ELDER  ANGUS  T.  WRIGHT 


115 


lo  relieve  me  on  account  of  my  age  are  mistaken.  1  don't  feel  that  1 
am  in  that  class  at  all. 

When  President  Ivins  spoke  to  me  about  going,  he  said  my  name 
was  under  consideration,  several  have  been  named,  but  he  said,  "I  can 
not  get  my  mind  on  anybody  else  but  you."  President  Ivins  and  I 
had1  the  privilege  of  laboring  togther  on  the  State  Board  of  the 
Agricultural  College  as  trustees,  and  he  said :  "I  have  become  pretty 
well  acquainted  with  you  in  these  past  five  or  six  years,  and  you,  hav- 
ing been  tbere  must  yet  remember  part  of  the  language.  I  feel  that  you 
are  the  proper  man.  Will  you  go?"  "Why,"  I  said,  "President  Ivins, 
you  should  not  ask  me  that  question.  You  ought  to  know  that  I  will 
go,  and  with  pleasure."  "Well,  but,"  he  said,  "you  are  a  business  man, 
and  if  it  will  interfere  in  any  way  with  your  business,  with  your  finan- 
cial affairs,  and  you  feel  that  you  can  not  go,  say  the  word  and  we  will 
find  someone  else."  "President  Ivins,  all  that  I  have  belongs  to  God, 
and  I  am  only  his  steward.  I  haven't  so  very  much,  but  what  I  have 
is  on  the  altar  and  at  your  service.  What  few  years  I  have  left,  if 
necessary,  I  am  willing  to  devote  to  this  great  cause,  which  I  know 
is  true,"  and  he  gave  me  his  hand,  and  the  shake  of  that  hand  that 
I  got  at  that  time  I  never  will  forget,  and  the  spirit  that  I  seemed 
to  receive  from  him  has  been  with  me  ever  since.  I  used  to  be  afraid, 
1  used  to  be  nervous.  I  used  to  take  a  back  seat.  I  admit  business  men 
usually  are  a  little  backward  about  coming  forward,  but  since  that  day, 
why,  it  has  been  a  pleasure  to  come  and  speak,  it  has  neen  a  pleasure 
for  me  to  pray,  it  has  been  a  pleasure  for  me  to  meet  with  the  Saints, 
and  I  have  taken  more  joy  and  satisfaction  in  this  short  month,  or 
month  and  a  half,  than  1  have  for  many  years,  and  it  is  a  testimony 
to  me  that  it  is  the  work  of  God.  My  wife,  God  bless  her,  is  going  with 
me.  She  is  not  quite  as  old  as  I  am,  and  don't  look  nearly  as  old.  She 
is  not  as  white-haired  as  I,  but  she  has  been  spared  for  some  good 
purpose.  She  has  been  ill,  she  has  had  serious  operations,  but  today 
she  seems  to  be  in  perfect  health,  and  I  can't  help  but  believe,  and 
she  believes,  that  she  has  been  spared  for  some  good  purpose.  She  is 
a  noble  woman.  I  say  it  sometimes  in  her  presence,  and  I  say  it  here, 
because  I  know  she  is  over  in  the  other  building,  but  she  is  a  noble 
beinc.  She  will  make  a  mother  to  those  elders,  as  she  said  last  night. 
We  had  a  li'tle  meeting  telling  us  goodby,  and  she  was  asked  to  speak. 
She  said:  "1  will  be  a  motber  to  ihose  bovs,  and  if  thev  get  holes  in 
their  s'ockings  T  will  help  them  darn  them,"  and  she  will;  she  is  built 
that  way ;  she  is  a  perfect  mother. 

Now  I  must  not  take  up  to  much  time,  but  I  assure  you  that  T 
feel  to  rejoice.  I  feel  my  weakness  in  being  classed  with  these  veterans 
who  have  been  in  the  field,  as  Brother  T'ennion  savs,  for  ninefeen 
vears,  while  I  have  been  trying  to  accumulate  dollars,  he  has  been 
laying  up  his  treasures  in  heaven;  mine  are  where  thieves  sometimes 
break  through  and  steal,  but  I  am  willing,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
spend  part  of  that  little  in  the  service  of  the  Lord.    I  feel  to  rejoice. 


116  ,         GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  know  that  we  are  going  in  safety  and  we  are  going  to  return  like- 
wise, because  we  have  been  promised.  Not  only  that — let  me  say,  just 
to  be  exact,  a  rather  peculiar  incident  happened.  The  occasion  that 
I  spoke  of  when  President  Ivins  first  asked  me  if  I  would  go  was  on 
Friday,  February  16.  On  Friday,  March  9,  President  Grant  called 
nie  on  the  phone  and  confirmed  this  call,  and  asked  if  1  could  go,  and  I 
said,  as  I  told  President  Ivins,  "Brother  Grant,  you  know  I  will  go. 
While  I  am  weak,  while  I  am  not  a  preacher,  I  am  willing  to  devote 
my  time,  and  if  God  will  help  me  and  with  the  prayers  of  you  good 
brethren,  I  feel  that  I  shall  succeed."  That  is  the  great  satisfaction  for 
me.  No  matter  which  one  of  the  apostles  I  have  met,  or  any  of  the 
other  authorities  of  the  Church,  they  have  shaken  me  by  the  hand  and 
said:  "Brother  Wright,  I  believe  you  are  the  right  man  in,  the  right 
place;  we  have  confidence  in  you."  And  oh,  what  a  joy,  what  else  on 
earth  could  give  one  so  much  joy,  so  much  joy  to  know  that  one  has  the 
faith,  the  confidence,  the  love,  the  respect  and  esteem  of  these  good 
men,  and  I  say,  God  bless  them.  But,  getting  back,  I  have  said  now, 
there  are  two  Fridays,  Friday,  February  16,  Brother  Ivins  spoke  to 
me;  Friday,  March  9,  Brother  Grant  confirmed  the  call.  On  Friday, 
mind  you  again,  we  were  set  apart,  and  we  sail  on  Friday,  in  a  room  or 
cabin  numbered  13.  You  cannot  tell  me  but  what  we  are  going  in 
safety,  and  we  are  coming  in  like  manner,  after  all  that,  because  all 
these  negatives  must  make  a  positive. 

It  is  almost  time  to  close,  and  I  regret  it,  because  I  have  a  lot  more 
I  would  like  to  say  to  you.  I  certainly  received  a  great  testimony  of 
the  truth  of  the  gospel  when  I  was  in  the  field  before.  I  did  not  know 
the  power  that  was  within  me  as  a  servant  of  God.  In  one  field  that 
we  were  opening  up,  the  power  of  darkness  preceded  us.  It  took  pos- 
session of  a  weak  sister,  and  tried  to  confound  us,  to  prevent  us  from 
opening  up  this  mission  on  this  adjacent  isle.  It  was  in  the  form  of  a 
man.  He  talked  to  me  through  this  sister.  He  told  me  his  name,  that  he 
was  a  cannibal,  that  he  was  a  bad  man,  that  he  was  there  with  thou- 
sands with  him,  and  they  were  going  to  prevent  us  from  opening  up  that 
mission,  he  was  going  to  prevent  these  people  whom  he  called  his 
from,  entering  into  the  waters  of  "Mormon"  to  be  baptized.  But  by  the 
power  of  the  holy  Priesthood,  by  the  authority  of  Jesus  Christ,  we 
rebuked  that  evil  influence,  that  evil  spirit,  and  we  wrere  enabled  to 
go  forth  and  perform  the  ordinances  of  baptism  to  thirty-five  of  them; 
we  blessed  fifteen  children ;  we  organized  a  branch,  and  we  left  them 
happy  and  contented,  and  I  know  it  was  by  the  power  of  the  Priest- 
hood of  God,  and  I  have  rejo;ced  in  that  testimony  ever  since. 

May  God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  I  hope  you  will 
remember  us  sometimes,  in  that  far-off  land,  and  I  know  that  the 
prayers  of  the  faithful  accomplish  much,  and  we  sincerely  ask  for 
them.  And  I  bear  you  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
I  know  and  am  satisfied  that  this  is  the  work  of  God.  Why,  look !  who 
could  deny  it,  when  you  see  its  effects?   You  shall  know  a  tree  by  its 


ELDER  ANGUS  T.  WRIGHT 


117 


fruits.  See  how  Zion  is  growing.  Go  into  any  of  the  branches,  or 
the  wards,  see  the  interest  that  is  being  taken.  They  are  crowded  as 
never  before.  We  are  dividing  our  stakes  and  sub-dividing  our  wards, 
and  yet  wour  meetinghouses  will  hardly  hold  the  Latter-day  Saints  be- 
cause of  that  great  awakening,  the  great  spirit,  the  great  desire,  to  serve 
God,  which  seems  to  have  come  literally  upon  them,  and  I  rejoice  in  it, 
and  may  God  bless  us,  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem;  "Gospel  Restoration,"  with  Mrs.  Mark 
Gardner,  soloist. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  George  Durham. 
Meeting  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


SECOND  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

A  second  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall  in  the 
afternoon  at  2  o'clock,  April  8,  1923.  President  Seymour  B.  Young, 
of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  presided. 

The  Jordan  stake  choir,  William  M.  Cox,  director,  furnished  the 
music  and  singing. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Holy  Temple"  as  the  opening  num- 
ber. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph  Kimball. 

The  services  were  continued  by  the  choir  singing  the  anthem,  "The 
Victory." 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric) 

"No  one  can  assist  in  this  work  except  he  shall  be  humble  and  full 
of  love,  having  faith,  hope  and  charity,  being  temperate  in  all  things." 

I  am  sure,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  those  of  us  who  have  been 
fortunate  enough  to  attend  this  conference  and  to  hear  the  testimonies 
of  the  men  who  are  on  the  firing  line  of  this  work,  have  rejoiced  in 
the  words  spoken,  for  their  words  have  been  filled  with  love  and  the 
spirit  of  truth  and  humility.  They  have  manifested  a  desire  to  labor 
willingly  and  unselfishly  for  the  advancement  of  truth  and  righteousness. 
I  sincerely  pray  that  for  the  few  moments  I  stand  before  you,  I  may  be 
blessed  of  God,  that  the  words  I  utter  may  be  guided  by  his  Holy  Spirit. 

It  is  a  great  responsibility  to  stand  before  the  Latter-day  Saints 
in  conference  assembled,  and  attempt  to  instruct  them  concerning  their 
duties,  or  to  expound  principles  of  the  gospel.  I  have  been  very  much 
concerned  for  some  time  past  and  have  tried  to  fix  my  mind  upon  some 
particular  subject  upon  which  I  might  be  especially  prepared,  should 
I  have  the  privilege  of  addressing  the  conference.  Each  speaker  has 
given  to  me  some  thought,  but  not  until  today  was  I  fully  impressed 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that,  as  your  servant,  one  upon  whom  rests  the  responsibility  of  helping 
to  look  after  the  temporal  affairs  of  the  Church,  1  should  speak  concern- 
ing these  matters. 

Fortunately  for  me,  I  am  a  son  of  the  soil,  put  to  work  in  my 
youth  tilling  the  ground  to  help  provide  food  for  a  large  family ;  one 
of  the  greatest  experiences  that  can  come  to  one.  President  Hinckley's 
remarks  concerning  the  many  opportunities  to  be  found  on  the  farm, 
recalled  to  my  mind  a  picture  of  the  conditions  in  the  stakes  of  Zion 
as  I  have  seen  them,  having  had  the  privilege  of  visiting  all  but  a  very 
few.  I  think  I  can  see  an  opportunity  for  greater  development,  for 
great  cooperation  and  for  the  manifestation  of  the  spirit  of  love  in  a 
greater  degree. 

I  am  happy  to  find  myself  in  harmony  with  the  remarks  of  Presi- 
dent Grant.  I  am  reminded  that  those  who  have  made  a  life  study 
of  agriculture  tell  us  that  in  our  country,  especially  in  the  valleys  where 
sugar  beets  can  be  raised,  we  have  an  ideal  condition  for  farming. 
We  have  not  as  yet  taken  advantage  of  it.  We  are  farming  too  much 
land,  taking  from  the  soil  our  inheritance  and  sending  it  away  for 
a  mere  pittance,  and  like  a  shiftless  man  who  has  had  left  to  him 
a  fortune,  we  forget  that  some  day  it  may  be  used  up,  and  go  on  day 
after  day  eating  into  the  principal.  Think  of  sending  hay  and  other 
bulky  products  away  from  our  farms,  thus  reducing  the  strength  of 
the  soil.  We  are  told  that  the  condition  ideal  is  one  wherein  we  may 
raise  alfalfa,  grain,  corn  for  insilage  and  beets.  These  cultivated  and 
cover  crops  fed  to  the  dairy  cow,  the  beet  pulp  being  returned,  preferably 
in  the  dry  state  after  the  sugar  has  been  extracted,  provide  fertilizers 
that  increase  these  crops  year  by  year.  Milk  anil  eggs  sold  each  day 
provide  monthly  cash  income  to  maintain  the  family,  and  sugar  beets 
provide  means  for  taxes  and  general  expenses. 

Many  times  have  1  gone  onto  the  farms  and  found  the  poor  old 
cow  picking  up  that  which  had  been  left  from  the  horses,  and  1 
remember  one  time  going  into  one  yard  where  I  found  four  big  cows, 
all  four  not  giving  more  milk  than  one  should  give.  I  asked  the  owner 
why  he  did  not  get  one  good  cow  to  provide  milk  for  his  family.  "Well, 
it  is  too  much  bother  to  look  after  them.  When  these  go  dry  I  can  turn 
them  out  on  the  range  and  go  out  and  get  a  fresh  one,"  was  his  reply. 
That  man  has  never  learned  what  it  means  to  one  to  really  love  a  cow. 
They  will  respond  and  will  pay  handsomely  for  kind  treatment,  but  if 
left  to  stand  in  the  wet  and  muck  to  their  knees  in  the  winter-time  with- 
out shelter,  we  can  not  expect  them  to  make  a  profit,  for  their  feed 
must  go  to  keep  them  warm  and  sometimes  to  keep  life  in  them. 

Last  spring,  while  on  the  way  to  attend  a  stake  conference,  I  met 
a  man  on  the  train  who  said  he  had  decided  that  no  farm  could  be 
a  success  without  dairy  cows,  and  he  was  on  his  way  to  my  des^'vation 
for  the  purpose  of  buying  dairy  cows.  I  was  surprised,  knowing  that  the 
farmers  of  that  district  were  depending  largely  upon  range  cattle,  very 
few  of  them  milking  cows.    After  the  conference  I  had  a  half  day 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH. 


119 


to  wait  for  my  train.  I  visited  the  implement  dealer,  the  banker,  the 
storekeeper,  and  found  that  the  men  who  had  the  best  credit  were  those 
who  were  milking  cows.  These  were  few,  but  they  had  learned  the 
lesson  and  had  no  milch  cows  for  sale. 

I  am  wondering  if  farming  has  not  been  too  easy  for  us.  To  milk 
cows  is  confining.  To  look  after  poultry,  for  many  of  us  is  beneath 
our  dignity,  and  we  dislike  to  berried  down  in  this  way.  The  sale  of 
milk,  eggs,  poultry,  hogs,  when  properly  marketed,  brings  cash  returns. 
Nearly  all  of  these  are  by-products  of  the  cow.  Hay,  grain,  ensilage, 
beet  pulp,  fed  to  cows,  carefully  bedded  with  the  straw  produced,  pro- 
vides a  fertilizer  wh'ch,  when  put  back  into  the  soil  enriches  it  and 
provides  strength  for  increased  crops.  It  seems  to  me  only  a  matter  of  a 
short  time  until  these  conditions  will  be  forced  upon  us  as  they  have  been 
in  other  paris  of  the  country. 

Let  us  stop  sending  our  hay  and  other  crops  containing  the  life  of 
the  soil  away  from  the  farm.  Many  times  over  the  ra'lroad,  paying 
a  high  freight,  when  that  same  produce  could  be  sent  out  in  butter, 
cheese,  milk,  eggs  and  sugar,  bringing  a  greater  return  and  increasing 
the  invested  capital  of  all  concerned. 

Complete  success  cannot  come  through  individual  efforts.  We 
must  have  cooperation.  We  must  work  unitedly  for  the  welfare  of  all 
and  not  selfishly  for  our  indivdual  interests.  I  would  like  to  see  the 
time  come  when  we  can  be  filled  with  the  spirit  of  love,  every  man 
feeling  in  his  soul  that  success  for  him  should  mean  success  for  his 
neighbor.  President  Ivins  said  this  morning,  we  cannot  look  after  the 
spiritual,  leaving  the  temporal  body  to  die,  nor  can  we  look  only  after 
the  temporal,  leaving  the  spiritual  body  to  die;  they  must  go  hand  in 
hand.  The  average  production  for  this  intermountain  country,  of  sugar 
beets  is  eleven  tons  to  the  acre.  I  saw  a  farm  a  year  ago  where  they 
raised  twenty-three  tons  of  sugar  beets  to  the  acre  and  across  the  road 
from  this  place  was  another  where  only  ten  tons  were  produced  to  the 
acre.  These  are  conditions  which  must  have  attention  if  we  hope  to 
succeed.  If  every  farmer  who  planted  sugar  beets  last  year  had 
increased  his  crop  one  ton  per  acre,  (as  he  could  have  done  by  fertilizing 
his  soil  and  properly  preparing  his  ground)  it  would  mean  nearly  one 
million  dollars  for  th's  people. 

Now  I  see  that  my  time  is  up.  I  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
when  we  go  to  our  homes  we  will  not  be  content  to  labor  selfishly 
in  our  own  way,  but  that  we  will  look  about  us  and  ascertain  the 
wishes  and  desires  of  our  neighbors,  that  we  meet  with  them  and  plan 
with  them  and  work  wi  h  them  to  do  that  which  will  be  for  the  greatest 
good  of  all,  remembering  that  to  be  successful  temporally  and  spirit- 
ually we  must  have  in  our  souls  the  spirit  of  love,  filled  with  faith,  hope 
and  charity  ;  faith  in  Gcd ;  fai  h  in  h  s  promises  and  his  works ;  faith  in 
tascl 'and  faith  in  ourselves;  hope  for  the  future;  charity,  not  a  mere 
giving  of  means  but  that  everlasting,  enduring  charity,  that  "charity 
that  suf fereth  long  and  is  kind,  that  envieth  not,  vaunteth  not  itself,  and 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


is  not  puffed  up — that  charity  that  does  not  behave  itself  unseemly, 
seeketh  not  her  own,  is  not  easily  provoked,  and  thmketh  no  evil,  re- 
joice'h  not  in  iniquity  but  rejoiceth  in  the  truth." 

Under  these  conditions  it  will  not  be  difficult  for  us  to  know  and 
be  influenced  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  Under  this  condition,  working 
hand  in  hand  with  one  another,  we  will  be  in  a  position  to  receive  the 
blessings  of  God,  promised  to  his  children.  And  I  fully  believe  that 
many  blessings  have  been  withheld  from  us  as  a  people  because  of  ou,r 
unwillingness  to  labor  unitedly,  both  for  our  temporal  and  spiritual 
welfare.  God  give  us  strength,  wisdom,  and  love  that  we  may  go  on  and 
on  in  the  great  work  in  that  fellowship  that  should  be  found  in  this 
Church,  T  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric) 

No  doubt  all  have  been  deeply  impressed  with  the  variety  of  sub- 
jects that  have  been  presented  during  this  conference.  It  seems  to  be 
the  sincere  desire  of  all  the  speakers  to  bless,  advise,  counsel  and  instruct 
Latter-day  Saints  to  reach  a  higher  plane,  both  in  temporal  and  spiritual 
development.  The  music  has  been  inspiring.  It,  no  doubt,  has  reached 
our  very  souls  and  has  been  sung  by  those  who  feel  what  they  sing. 
The  music  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  not  hired  to  create  effect,  but  is 
a  part  of  the  congregational  worslrp. . 

It  is  not  what  we  hear  that  benefits  us  so  much  as  the  thoughts  which 
sink  deep  into  our  soul,  that  ring  out,  not  only  in  our  ears,  but  which 
become  part  of  our  life'.s  habit  that  will  benefit  us.  If  we  take  home  with 
us  the  counsel  and  instructions  we  have  received,  and  develop  in  our 
hearts  a  fixed  determination  to  follow  that  counsel  and  make  it  a  part 
of  our  daily  life,  we  shall  develop  as  the  Lord  expects  us  to. 

On  Friday,  President  Heber  J.  Grant  referred  to  the  great  mis- 
sionary work  of  the  Church.  He  stated  there  were  1,775  men  and 
women  laboring  in  the,  nations  of  the  earth  and  in  this  great  country 
without  any  hope  of  earthly  reward.  They  are  suffering  trials  and 
sometimes  distress  that  would  appall  ordinary  persons.  They  go  from 
door  to  door  with  the  messages  of  the  gospel,  frequently  have  these 
doors  shut  in  their  faces ;  in  many  cases  they  struggle  to  acquire  an- 
other language.  The  Lord  blesses  them  so  abundantly  in]  his  labor  and 
ministry  that  in  a  few  weeks  or  months  they  are  able  to  do  what  others 
have  not  been  able  to  do  in  years,  that  is,  express  themselves  in  a 
foreign  tongue.  And  it  has  been  a  constant  comment  and  marvel  to  the 
people  of  the  world  of  the  rapidity  with  which  the  Latter-day  Saints 
acquire  a  foreign  language. 

Many  people  have  an  idea  that  success  in  life  is  measured  by 
dollars  and  cents ;  others  by  the  acquisHion  of  lands  and  cattle  and 
sheep ;  others  by  the  accumulation  of  stocks  and  bonds.    But  there  is 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


121 


in  the  gospel  something  far  more  substantial,  far  more  important  than 
success  measured  by  dollars  and  cents  or  the  things  of  the  world.  And 
one  outstanding  feature  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  the  great  work  that 
is  being  done  by  its  missionaries  in  all  parts  of  the  world ;  by  their  ex- 
emplary lives  they  teach  the  world  that  there  is  something  in  "Mormon- 
ism"  different  to  other  religions.  The  leaven  of  the  gospel  is  slowly 
vitalizing  the  theories  of  men  concerning  Christianity.  Not  only  that, 
there  is  the  great  development  that  comes  to  the  missionaries  themselves. 
They  may  come  home  without  the  gratification  of  having  made  con- 
verts, but  they  do  a  wonderful  work  for  themselves .  by  obtaining  a 
testimony  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  most  priceless  thing  a  man 
or  woman  can  obtain. 

It  is  not  necessary  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  should  measure 
their  success  in  the  world  by  the  numbers  who  embrace  the  gospel, 
although  it  is  always  gratifying  to  know  that  others  have  received  with 
glad  hearts  the  message  of  the  gospel  that  has  come  to  us.  But  the 
Father,  when  he  appeared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  thought  one  man  was 
enough  to  show  himself  to,  that  he  might  be  a  new  witness  for  God. 

I  was  talking  with  a  man  the  other  day  who  had  just  received  a 
letter  from  his  son,  breathing  the  spirit  and  power  of  the  gospel.  The 
father  said :  "Yes,  that  one  letter  alone  has  paid  me  for  all  the  labor, 
the  expense  and  all  the  effort  that  we  have  made  to  keep  that  boy  in 
the  mission  field."  Let  us  keep  a  constant  stream  of  young  men  and 
women  in  the  missionary  field.  Let  every  ward  do  its  full  share  in 
warning  the  world  by  sending  missionaries  to  proclaim  the  gospel  mes- 
sage. Let  us  not  measure  the  work  of  the  Lord  in  terms  of  a  pocket- 
book,  but  measure  it  in  terms  of  eternal  life  that  will  come  to  our  young 
people  who  perform  their  part  and  remain  true  to  the  covenant  of  the 
gospel. 

Perhaps  I  ought  to  say  something  on  temporal  things,  for  my 
duty  and  calling  is  to  minister  in  all  temporal  things.  President  Grant 
has  more  than  once  expressed  his  desire  that  the  Latter-day  Saint  should 
get  out  of  debt.  We  are  on  the  eve  of  another  era  of  prosperity. 
Whether  is  is  permanent  or  not  only  time  can  tell.  The  nations  of 
Europe  are  still  struggling  and  trying  to  lift  their  heads  out  of  the  chaos 
caused  by  war.  They  are  unable  to  purchase  the  necessities  of  life, 
much  more  import  luxuries,  and  even  necessities  from  other  countries. 
Our  present  wave  of  prosperity  may  not  be  permanent ;  it  may  be  that  in 
the  providence  of  the  Lord  there  will  be  an  era  of  good  time  for 
this  country  which  will  equally  affect  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  will 
enable  them  to  get  out  of  debt.  So  I  want  to  urge  my  brethren  and 
sisters  to  take  the  advice  of  the  President  seriously  and  make  an  effort 
to  rid  themselves  of  the  bondage  of  debt. 

Some  of  my  brethren  and  sisters  say  they  are  tied  up  so  tight 
with  debt  that  they  do  not  know  which  way  to  turn.  Well,  there  are 
only  four  ways  to  change  that  situation.    The  first  is,  to  earn  more. 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Some  of  us  can't  do  that.  The  second  is,  to  spend  less.  Most  of  us 
don't  like  to  do  that.  The  third  is,  to  dispose  of  our  assets,  and  with 
our  equity  in  our  unencumbered  assets  pay  our  debts.  But  I  want  to 
give  you  a  fourth  method  of  paying  your  debts,  and  that  is  to  pay 
your  tithes  and  offerings  in  the  season  thereof.  If  we  will  tithe  all  that 
the  Lord  gives  unto  us.  that  belongs  to  us,  and  do  it  in  the  season 
thereof  and  at  the  time  we  receive  it,  the  Lord  has  said  that  he  will  bless 
and  prosper  the  land  for  our  sakes.  And  there  are  hundreds  of  ways 
by  which  the  Lord  will  bring  about  circumstances  and  conditions  where 
our  debts  will  be  lighter  and  more  easily  paid,  and  funds  come  into  our 
hands  when  we  observe  the  law  of  tithing. 

Let  me  illustrate  this  by  telling  you  an  incident  that  occurred  a 
few  days  ago.  A  certain  well-known  brother  whose  father  has  gone  to 
rest — a  great  man  in  this  Church,  a  man  who  has  left  a  name  and  a 
fame  that  will  never  be  forgotten — was  on  the  non-tithepayers  list.  I 
spoke  to  him  about  the  payment  of  his  tithing.  He  said  he  could  not 
possibly  pay  because  he  had  promised  to  pay  the  bank  where  he  was  ow  • 
ing  a  large  amount,  his  full  check  for  his  pay  for  that  month.  I  said, 
"You  have  no  right  to  promise  that  to  the  bank  which  belongs  to  the 
Lord.  There  is  where  you  make  the  mistake.  You  have  taken 
the  Lord's  money  and  applied  it  for  your  own  purposes  and  thus  deprived 
yourself  of  a  blessing."  He  replied:  "What  shall  I  do?"  I  said, 
"If  it  were  my  case,  I  would  pay  my  tithing  and  trust  to  the  Lord  to  find 
some  way  to  help  me  out  of  my  difficulties."  He  stood  a  little  while, 
uncertain  what  to  do.  I  went  back  to  my  desk.  He  came  in  and  said : 
"I  will  do  it,"  and  he  went  to  the  proper  department  of  the  office, 
paid  one-tenth  of  his  check  and  stood  outside  on  the  front  steps  won- 
dering what  to  do.  While  standing  there  thinking  oLsome  kind  of  an 
excuse,  a  man  came  to  him,  who  had  owed  him  money  for  a  number  of 
years  and  said,  "I  have  been  looking  for  you  for  a  day  or  two.  Here  is 
that  $25  I  owed  you  years  ago."  That  was  the  exact  amount  of  his 
tithing. 

Now  I  don't  wish  to  leave  an  impression  that  the  Lord  will  give 
to  you  or  me  just  as  much  back  as  we  pay  him  on  tithing.  Don't  go 
away  with  that  idea.  But  I  do  want  to  appeal  to  the  Latter-day  Saints 
to  sit  down  with  themselves  and  their  conscience  once  a  month,  find  out 
what  the  Lord  has  given  to  them,  their  interest,  and  tithe  it  first  of  all. 
Then  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  will  surely  be  on  the  90  per  cent  which  he 
has  given  us  to  use  according  to  our  good  judgment  and  discretion. 

If  we  will  live  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  we  are  entitled  to  his 
blessings  and  the  promptings  of  his  Spirit,  which  will  bring  gladness  and 
happiness  to  our  souls. 

A  solo  entitled,  "The  Lord  has  risen,"  was  sun  by  Mrs.  Mark 
Gardner. 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


123 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

One  week  ago  today  Easter  was  being  observed  throughout  all  of 
the  Christian  countries  in  commemoration  of  the  resurrection  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  think,  perhaps,  this  event  could  not  be  commemo- 
rated at  a  more  appropriate  time  when  all  nature  is  bursting  into  a  new- 
ness of  life  after  the  deadness  of  the  cold  winter  months.  But  I  think 
it  would  be  better  if  the  date  were  fixed  definitely  on  some  particular 
day,  instead  of  being  movable  as  now,  ranging  all  the  way  from  the 
22nd  of  March  to  some  time  in  April.  I  like  to  think  that  Christ's 
resurrection  really  occurred  on  the  6th  of  April.  I  don't  know  whether 
such  is  the  case  or  not.  Christmas  is  another  day  that  we  are  pleased 
to  celebrate  in  commemoration  of  the  birth  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ.  I  do  not  think  that  there  are  any  two  events  that  have  tran- 
spired in  the  history  of  this  world  that  ought  to  be  commemorated  more 
than  these  particular  two,  and  T  like  to  think  that  both  events  occurred 
on  the  6th  day  of  April,  the  very  day  upon  which  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  was  organized,  just  ninety-three  years  ago. 

But,  be  that  as  it  may,  it  doesn't  make  so  much  difference  on  what 
day  we  may  choose  to  commemorate  these  important  events  that  have 
taken  place  in  the  history  of  the  world,  in  the  coming  of  our  Savior 
and  in  his  glorious  resurrection.  But  the  all-important  thing  is  this, 
that  we  do  sense  the  importance  of  these  events  themselves,  and  that  we 
have  an  abiding  faith  in  their  purport  and  believe  with  all  our  souls 
that  Jesus  Christ  was  born  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  the  Only  Begotten  of 
the  Father  in  the  flesh,  and  is  therefore  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living 
God.  It  is  also  imoortant  to  believe  that  during  his  lifetime  he  promul- 
gated the  plan  of  life  and  salvation,  and  taught  the  children  of  men 
as  no  one  else  has  ever  tought  them  the  glorious  principles  of  eternal 
life.  It  is  also  important  that  we  should  believe  with  all  our  souls  that 
he  gave  his  life  as  a  ransom  for  the  sins  of  the  whole  world,  and  that 
his  precious  blood  was  spilled  as  a  means  of  saving  mankind  from  the 
fall.  It  is  also  important  that  we  shall  believe  with  all  our  souls  that 
on  the  third  day  he  rose  from  the  dead  and  overcame  death  and  the 
grave,  and  became  the  first  fruits  of  the  resurrection.  These  are 
the  important  things:  The  observance  of  these  two  holy  days  in  com- 
memorat'on  of  our  Savior's  marvelous  birth  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  and  his 
miraculous  resurrection  from,  the  dead,  is  quite  general  throughout  all 
Christian  lands  and  amoncf  the  various  so-called  Christian  churches. 
Ts  it  nof,  therefore,  most  remarkable,  indeed  astonishing,  that  manv  ad- 
herents of  these  churches,  while  ce'ebratina;  the  davs  with  great  en- 
thusiasm, are  losing  the:r  faith  in  the  events  themselves,  even  denying 
the  immaculate  conception,  the  divinity  of  Christ,  and  the  reality  of  his 
glorious  resurrection  ;  and  that  prominent  ministers  of  these  churches 
making  such  denials  should  be  applauded  and  permitted  to  retain  their 
pulpits.    Surely  the  time  has  come,  spoken  of  by  Paul  in  his  epistle  to 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Timothy,  "when  they  will  not  endure  sound  doctrine;  but  after  their 
own  lusts  shall  they  heap  to  themselves  teachers,  having  itching  ears," 
etc. 

What  a  wonderful  thing  is  life!  Things  that  live  are  very  differ- 
ent from  things  that  are  dead,  such  as  rocks,  minerals,  gold,  silver, 
copper,  etc.  Things  that  live,  "move  and  have  a  being,"  they  take 
nourishment,  they  grow  and  they  die.  In  these  characteristics  they  dif- 
fer from  things  that  have  no  life.  Biologists  in  their  endeavors  to  solve 
the  problem  of  life  have  put  forth  many  theories  that  have  had  a  tend- 
ency to  undermine  the  faith  of  some,  while  strengthening  the  faith  of 
others,  and  while  many  interesting  and  valuable  observations  have  been 
made  relative  to  evolution,  at  the  end  of  all  their  investigations  they  find 
themselves  just  as  far  as  at  the  beginning  from  understanding  the  real 
problem  of  life  itself ;  and  in  their  published  works,  it  is  usually  ad- 
mited  that  "we  do  not  know  the  origin  of  life."  What  is  this  thing  that 
they  call  life?  We  see  it  manifest,  the  world  is  teeming  with  life.  It  is 
here  upon  the  surface  of  the  earth ;  we  find  it  in  the  air  only  for  a 
few  thousand  feet  up  into  it,  and  a  few  hundred  feet  down  into  the  in- 
terior of  the  earth  and  out  in  the  oceans,  teeming  with  life,  but  beyond 
these  limitations  they  know  of  no  such  thing  as  life.  And  this  world 
upon  which  we  live  teeming  thus  with  life,  at  one  time  we  are  told 
was  a  molten  mass,  that  the  heat  was  so  intense  that  nothing  could  live 
on  its  surface  or  anywhere  about  it.  All  things  were  dead,  could  not  live. 
The  things  that  are  dead  differ  from  the  things  that  live.  Things  that 
Jive  have  motion.  It  may  only  be  a  blade  of  grass  moving  its  little 
roots  down  into  the  soil,  or  it  may  be  a  creeping  insect,  or  the  animal- 
culae  that  we  cannot  behold  with  the  natural  eye,  or  it  may  be  in  the 
beasts  of  the  field,  or  it  may  be  man,  but  life  is  everywhere  aparem 
in  the  world.  They  can  not  account  for  it.  It  is  preposterous  to  sup- 
pose that  there  is  such  a  thing  as  spontaneous  generation. 

Then,  whence  came  life?  The  answer  is  in  the  Bible:  "In  the 
beginning  God  created  the  heavens  and  the  earth,"  and  all  things  that 
in  them  are.  "The  fool  hath  said  in  his  heart,  there  is  no  God."  I 
know,  as  I  know  that  I  live,  that  God  lives  and  that  he  is  my  life,  for  in 
him  I  live  and  move  and  have  my  being,  and  without  him  I  could  not 
live,  nor  could  anyone  else  live.  He,  then,  is  life.  Does  that  correspond 
with  the  testimony  of  the  Savior?  You  will  remember  when  Lazarus 
died  and  Jesus  heard  of  it,  and  came,  Martha  said  to  him:  "Master, 
if  you  had  been  here  he  had  not  died,"  and  the  Savior  said :  "I  am  the 
resurrection  and  the  life,  and  he  that  believeth  on  me;  though  he  were 
dead,  yet  shall  he  live.  Believeth  thou  this?"  he  said  to  Martha.  "Yes, 
Lord,  I  believe  that  thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God." 
Do  you  believe  that,  Latter-day  Saints?  That  is  the  faith  that  we  should 
have.   He,  then,  is  the  resurrection  and  the  life. 

We  live  because  of  God,  and  without  him  there  would  be  no  life. 
Does  that  not  also  correspond  with  the  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith?   I  quote  from  Doctrine  &  Covenants  88:15,  16,  17:    "And  the 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


125 


spirit  and  the  body  are  the  soul  of  man.  And  the  resurrection  from  the 
dead  is  the  redemption  of  the  soul.  And  the  redemption  of  the  soul 
is  through  him  who  quickeneth  all  things."  By  whom  then  came 
this  redemption  ?  Not  by  you  or  me ;  oh,  no,  but  through  him  who  quick- 
eneth  all  things — who  causes  the  grass  to  grow  and  everything  to  bloom, 
and  all  this  teeming  life  to  be  and  live.  He  is  the  author  of  life  itself ; 
he  is  the  resurrection  and  the  life.  Do  you  believe  that?  Latter-day 
Saints  believe  it.  It  is  inscribed  in  their  own  hearts ;  it  is  in  the  faith 
that  we  have  received  through  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  and  the 
witness  of  the  Spirit  that  we  have  received  by  the  laying  on  of  hands. 
Then  let  us  live  so  that  we  may  enjoy  the  sweet  companionship  of 
God's  holy  Spirit  that  bears  witness  to  the  truth  of  what  I  have  said, 
and  God  help  us  to  believe  it  with  all  our  souls,  and  commemorate  these 
holy  days  and  seasons  in  the  full  faith  that  God  lives  and  that  he  sent 
his  Only  Begotten  Son,  that  whoseoever  believeth  in  him  should  not 
perish,  but  obtain  eternal  life,  which  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

To  begin  with,  if  the  brethren  and  .sisters  desire  me  to  run  smoothly 
and  make  no  breaks,  it  will  be  advisable  to  keep  awake  until  I  finish  my 
speech,  as  it  requires  exceeding  grgat  faith  to  put  into  practice  what 
you  preach,  and  it  calls  for  much  faith  to  believe  what  you  teach.  For 
me  to  be  my  natural  self  is  somewhat  dangerous,  and  to  be  original 
would  cause  the  very  air  to  resound  with  criticism.  I  fully  realize 
that  brevity,  and  to  the  point,  should  be  added  to  the  virtues.  Horace 
Greeley  used  to  say  that  the  way  to  write  a  good  editorial  was  to  write 
it  to  the  best  of  your  ability,  then  cut  it  in  two  in  the  middle  and  print 
the  last  half.    I  am  going  to  follow  this  suggestion. 

Brevity,  and  to  the  point  has  been  the  instructions  given  by  Presi- 
dent Grant.  This  counsel  has  been  adhered  to  and  is  unusual  and  very 
gratifying.  There  have  been  many  speakers  and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
has  been  given  to  men  who  are  not  included  among  the  general  au- 
thorities of  the  Church,  which  is  very  encouraging  to  the  people.  I  do 
not  think  as  a  people  we  have  any  special  use  for  presidents  of  stakes, 
or  bishops  of  wards,  who  are  not  directed  by  inspiration.  Without 
the  guidance  of  the  Holy  Spirit  we  cannot  fill  our  appointments. 

I  have  been  thinking  of  a  subject  for  a  considerable  length  of  time, 
and  I  have  the  idea  fixed  and  fastened  in  my  mind.  If  we  as  Latter-day 
Saints  will  do  our  own  thinking  and  search  the  revelations  of  the  Lord, 
it  will  help  us  out  of  many  of  our  difficulties.  Therefore,  I  ask  that 
you  give  careful  consideration  to  some  of  the  ideas  I  wish  to  convey. 
Elder  B.  H.  Roberts  has  lately  published  a  tract,  for  use  in  the  Eastern 
States  mission,  entitled:  The  Lord  Hath  Spoken.  The  contents  of  this 
pamphlet  is  very  interesting  and  instructive,  as  I  have  read  it. 

Many  testimonies  have  been  given  ddring  the  conference  by  the 


126 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


brethren  saying  in  no  uncertain  way,  "We  know  that  God  lives."  This  to 
me  is  only  the  beginning  of  our  recognition  of  the  great  loving  Father 
for  his  children,  "as  no  living  soul  can  move,  or  wake,  or  open  the  eyes," 
that  he  does  not  see  the  self-expression  of  God's  goodness  and  gracious- 
ness  for  his  offspring.  I  have  little  hesitation  in  saying  this  is  what 
parents  should  teach  children  before  teaching  them  to  pray  and  even 
children  should  grasp  the  idea  "that  God  lives." 

They  say  that  almost  everybody  has  one  big  idea.  It  may  come 
suddenly  to  your  mind  by  inspiration,  and  the  question  arises :  what 
do  you  do  with  it  ?  You  put  it  in  definite  form  and  develop  the  gem  of 
truth.  To  get  a  true  conception  of  God  is  the  biggest  idea  I  have  ever 
tried  to  comprehend. 

The  second  big  idea  is:  "Have  you  found  God?-' 

St.  Paul,  when  he  spoke  to  the  men  of  Athens,  said  that  they  might 
seek  God,  if  perhaps  they  might  grope  and  find  him — yes,  though  he 
is  not  far  from  any  one  of  us.  We  are  the  offspring  of  the  living  God, 
and  as  our  heavenly  Father  is  not  far  from  any  of  us,  he  cannot  be  very 
far  distant  from  me. 

Our  pioneer  fathers  and  mothers,  as  it  was  with  the  prophets 
of  the  Old  and  New  Testament,  had  suffered  disaster  after  disaster — ■ 
they  knew — they  had  found  God.  They  had  tested  the  truth  for  them- 
selves. 

These  leaders,  seers,  and  teachers  had  no  fear.  In  their  anguish 
and  tribulation  they  said:  "Let  it  roll.  The  Lord  will  fight  for  you. 
Stand  still  and  see  what  he  wilLdo.  His  arm  is  not  shortened,  neither 
is  his  strength  diminished.  Trust  in  the  Lord  and  be  doing  good,  so 
shalt  thou  dwell  in  the  land  and  verily  thou  shalt  be  fed.  O,  how  great 
is  the  goodness  which  thou  hast  wrought  for  them  that  trust  in  thee 
before  the  .sons  of  men.  Be  of  good  courage  and  he  shall  strengthen 
your  heart,  all  ye  that  have  hope  in  the  Lord." 

What  is  in  the  future?  How  far  can  we  see  ahead  of  us?  Some 
of  us  cannot  see  the  length  of  our  noses,  but  the  prophets  have  warned 
us  of  the  danger  that  menaces  us.  We  must  be  prepared  and  get  our 
feet  planted  upon  the  ground,  because  we  don't  know,  I  don't  know,  what 
test  is  ahead  of  us.  The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  had  to  be  preached 
with  tears  and  beseechings,  sufferings,  adversity  and  persecution  from 
one  generation  to  another.  No  generation  accepted  it  because  their 
belief  in  material  power  was  so  dense  that  they  lost  faith  in  the  spiritual. 
We  have  to  talk  of  the  temporal.  Temporal  things  have  to  be  attended 
to,  or  we  all  would  starve  to  death,  but  we  must  not  place  the  temporal 
before  the  spiritual,  for  if  we  do,  you  can  look  out  for  disaster  and 
trouble.  No  man  can  save  the  nation,  or  a  people  when  they  get  the 
temporal  first  and  forget  the  spiritual.  I  went  on  a  mission  for  two 
years,  and  I  came  home  and  I  loved  everybody,  but  I  hadn't  been  home 
long  before  I  partook  of  the  environment.  No  thinking  man  or  wom- 
an can  be  free  from  deep  forebodings,  however  optimistic  we  try  to 
keep  ourselves,  with  this  crisis  in  world  history.     Fear  has  crept 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


127 


into  the  hearts  of  men.  You  talk  to  them,  and  see  for  yourselves.  1 
think  many  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  greatly  frightened.  You  don't 
know  what  is  going  to  happen.  Time  must  be  close  at  hand  when  we 
shall  need  a  living  testimony  and  knowledge  for  ourselves  that  God 
lives  and  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Savior  of  the  world.  Have  we  found 
God?  Have  we  found  him  strong  enough,  so  that  we  are  stripped  to 
the  skin? — then  we  cry  out:  "I  will  rejoice  in  God.  I  will  joy  in 
the  God  of  my  salvation."  Elias  Kimball  and  I  worked  for  the  Lord, 
and  we  gave  the  very  best  effort  we  had  while  in  the  Southern  states 
and  when  we  came  back  we  went  over  the  hill  to  the  poorhouse.  We 
hadn't  a  penny  left,  but  we  loved  God.  We  had  found  him.,  and  I  still 
rejoice  in  God. 

I  am  going  to  read  you  something  that  was  said  three  years  after 
I  was  born.  That  is  a  very  long  time  ago.  It  seems  to  me  like  a  hun- 
dred years.  A  prophet  of  God  said  it,  and  it  is  coming  true  every  day, 
but  it  has  taken  a  long  time  to  fulfil  the  prophecy.  In  the  year  1856— 
Heber  C.  Kimball  said :  "We  think  we  are  secure  here  in  the  chambers 
of  the  everlasting  hills,  but  I  say  to  you,  the  time  is  coming  when  we 
will  be  mixed  up  in  these  now  peaceful  valleys  to  that  extent  that  it  will 
be  difficult  to  tell  the  face  of  a  Saint  from  the  face  of  an  enemy  of  the 
people  of  God."  Can't  you  see  its  fulfilment?  You  cannot  tell  a 
"Mormon"  from  a  Gentile  unless  you  know  them.  I  have  stood  on  a 
corner  of  Main  street  to  prove  the  fulfilment  of  this  statement,  and  I 
have  taken  out  my  watch  for  one  hour,  and  I  am  a  pretty  well  informed 
man  as  to  faces.  I  have  lived  here  all  my  life.  1  am  pretty  well  known 
among  the  people.  I  only  saw  a  very  few  that  were  "Mormons,"  and 
I  wasn't  right  sure  of  them.  "Then,  brethren,  when  that  time  comes, 
look  out  for  the  great  sieve,  for  there  will  be  a  great  sifting  time  and 
many  will  fall,  for  I  say  unto  you  there  is  coming  a  test,  a  test,  a  test, 
and  who  will  be  able  to  stand?"  That  was  just  what  our  father  kept 
saying.  Father  came  up  to  the  house,  and  he  said  in  the  presence  of  my 
mother,  who  lived  there :  "O"  the  test,  the  test,  the  test,  who  will 
be  able  to  stand?"  My  mother  replied:  "Brother  Heber,  what  i.s  the 
test?"  "I  don't  know,  but  only  those  who  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ 
can  stand." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  about  to  conclude:  If  you  will  think 
about  what  I  have  said  don't  get  fearful — be  like  those  old  prophets. 
This  is  God's  work;  God  is  at  the  helm.  He  will  take  care  of  us  no 
matter  what  our  troubles  are.  We  will  never  be  shaken,  if  we  know 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  It  is  a  wonderful  thing  to  know.  I  know  there 
is  something  that  prophesies  to  my  soul  that  this  is  true  because  I  have 
a  light,  if  you  can  only  get  it  lighted.  A  manifestation  of  the  Spirit  of 
God  is  given  to  every  man  and  woman  and  child  and  I  know  that  there 
is  something  that  prophesies  to  my  soul  that  this  is  true  because  I  have 
tested  it.  I  have  not  finished  my  work  yet.  I  think  I  look  as  if  I  had 
had  some  experience.  I  haven't  got  much  knowledge,  but  T  have  enough, 
all  I  need  to  know  is  that  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


day  Saints,  and  I  am  able  to  demonstrate  that  I  know  that  God  lives. 
I  hope  the  Lord  will  be  kind  to  me  and  not  leave  me  to  forsake  him. 
I  don't  think  he  will,  unless  I  do  wrong,  but  no  one  knows  how  safe 
he  is.  My  father  said  that  his  election  had  been  made  sure,  and  just 
before  his  death  an  angel  appeared  to  him  and  told  Heber  C. 
Kimball,  "Your  work  is  finished."  His  work  was  completed,  his  election 
was  made  sure.   We  don't  hear  much  about  that  now-a-days. 

I  pray  in  your  behalf  that  you  will  not  allow  yourselves  to  be 
shaken,  but  if  you  desire  to  have  faith  in  God  and  in  this  Church  you 
have  got  to  work,  and  you  have  got  to  make  sacrifice,  and  the  time  will 
come,  just  as  sure  as  you  live  and  breathe  and  have  a  being,  when  you 
will  not  only  say  that  you  are  willing  to  place  all  upon  the  altar,  but  you 
will  do  it.  I  am  ready  now.  I  haven't  got  very  much,  but  everything 
goes.   I  will  stake  my  all. 

The  Lord  bless  you.  Amen. 

The  names  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  were  presented 
for  acceptance  by  Elder  Seymour  B.  Young  as  presented  in  the  Taber- 
nacle meeting  and  by  unanimous  vote  sustained. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

I  think,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  one  great  duty  confronting 
us  today  is  to  teach  the  gospel  in  our  homes,  to  our  children.  While 
we  have  our  many  teachers  in  the  various  auxiliary  organizations  of  the 
Church,  yet  the  greatest  teacher  a  child  can  have  are  the  parents.  If 
you  will  turn  to  the  sixth  chapter  of  Deuteronomy,  you  will  find  words 
of  wisdom,  and  the  admonition  of  the  Prophet  Moses  to  teach  your 
children  the  laws  of  God: 

"Now  these  are  the  commandments,  the  statutes,  and  the  judgments, 
which  the  Lord  your  God  commanded  to  teach  you,  that  ye  might  do  them 
in  the  land  whither  ye  go  to  possess  it: 

"That  thou  mightest  fear  the  Lord  thy  God,  to  keep  all  his  statutes  and  his 
commandments,  which  I  command  thee,  thou,  and  thy  son,  and  thy  son's 
son,  all  the  days  of  thy  life ;  and  that  thy  days  may  be  prolonged. 

"Here  therefore,  O  Israel,  and  observe  to  do  it;  that  it  may  be  well  with 
thee,  and  that  ye  may  increase  mightily,  as  the  Lord  God  of  tny  tathers  hath 
promised  thee,  in  the  land  that  floweth  with  milk  and  honey. 

"Hear,  O  Israel:  The  Lord  our  God  is  one  Lord: 

"And  thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thine  heart,  and  with 
all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  might. 

"And  these  w,ords,  which  I  command  thee  this  day,  shall  be  in  thine 
heart: 

"And  thou  shalt  teach  them  diligently  unto  thy  children,  and  shalt  talk 
of  them  when  thou  sittest  in  thine  house,  and  when  thou  walkest  by  the 
way,  and  when  thou  liest  down,  and  when  thou  risest  up. 

"And  thou  shalt  bind  them  for  a  sign  upon  thine  hand,  and  they  shall  be 
as  frontlets  between  thine  eyes. 


* 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG  129 

i 

i 

"And  thou  shalt  write  them  upon  the  posts  of  thy  house,  and  on  thy 
gates. 

"And  it  shall  be,  when  the  Lord  thy  God  shall  have  brought  thee  unto  the 
,land  which  he  sware  unto  thy  fathers,  to  Abraham,  to  Isaac,  and  to  Jacob, 
to  give  thee  great  and  goodly  cities,  which  thou  buildedst  not, 

"And  houses  full  of  all  go,od  things,  which  thou  filledst  not,  and  wells 
digged,  which  thou  diggedst  not,  vineyards  and  olive  trees,  which  thou 
plantedst  not;  when  thou  shalt  have  eaten  and  be  full; 

"Then  beware  lest  thou  forget  the  Lord  which  brought  thee  forth  out 
of  the  land  of  Egypt,  from  the  house  of  bondage. 

"Thou  shalt  fear  the  Lord  thy  God,  and  serve  him,  ana  snalt  swear  by 
his  name. 

"Ye  shall  not  go  after  other  gods,  of.  the  gods  of  the  people  which  are 
round  about  you." 

Among  the  ancient  Jews,  the  parents  began  to  teach  their  children 
Bible  verses  as  soon  as  the  children  could  understand.  One  of  the  first 
things  that  Jesus  learned  in  the  little  home  at  Nazareth  was  the  first 
verse  of  the  Shema,  the  national  confession  of  faith :  "Hear,  O  Israel, 
Jehovah  is  our  God,  Jehovah  alone."  Other  verses  from  the  law  and 
the  prophets  would  be  learned  one  by  one. 

During  the  French  revolution  while  the  Reign  of  Terror  in  Paris 
was  striking  fear  and  hate  into  the  hearts  of  every  citizen,  the  French 
Assembly,  by  vote,  discarded  the  Christian  religion,  and  set  up  "The  God 
of  Reason."  Then  terror  did  reign.  People  lost  all  reason;  the  higher 
standards  of  morality  were  forgotten;  sin  reigned  supreme.  For- 
tunately for  France,  Napoleon  Bonaparte  restored  the  Christian  religion 
by  edict.  But,  alas,  from  that  day  to  this,  "the  God  of  Reason"  has  pre- 
vailed too  much  over  the  living  God  of  Love,  the  Father  of  us  all.  In 
our  homes,  we  can  have  the  Spirit  of  God  only  as  w^  think  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  live  as  he  has  asked  us  to  live.  It  is  man's  soul  that  Christ 
is  looking  for;  and  the  great  thing  that  Christ  did  first  was  to  find  his 
own  soul.  Out  of  the  carpenter's  shop  at  Nazareth  came  a  personality 
infinitely  greater  than  any  made  by  myth  or  legend,  and  one  destined  to 
reveal  to  the  human  race  the  real  beauties  of  life,  the  Fatherhood  of 
God,  and  the  brotherhood  of  man.  In  our  homes  Jesus  Christ  should 
be  our  ideal,  and  you  know  that  he  waged  war  against  vulgarism  and 
the  materialistic  manner  of  living.  Christ  swept  false  systems  away, 
and  gave  us  a  mortality  based  on  the  principle  that  his  God  and  our 
God  lives.  His  morality  was  sympathy,  and  he  had  no  regard  whatever 
for  the  dry,  lifeless  systems  of  his  day. 

The  song  of  Isaiah  rings  true  today  :  "He  is  despised  and  rejected 
of  men,  a  man  of  sorrows  and  acquainted  with  grief ;  and  we  hid  as  it 
were  our  faces  from  him." 

We  parents  must  teach  Christ  more  and  more  to  our  children,  and 
like  the  Jews  of  old,  hang  upon  the  entrance  of  our  homes  and  write 
it  in  our  hearts :  "Hear,  O  Israel,  Jehovah  is  our  God,  Jehovah  alone." 
Long  before  the  Jewish  child  could  read,  he  was  attracted  by  members 
of  the  family  pausing  before  the  doorway  touching  reverently  the 
Mezuzah,  a  small,  shining  cylinder  of  wood  or  metal,  kissing  the  hand 

5 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  touched  it,  and  then  passing  on.  Later  on,  he  learned  that  the 
Mezuzah  was  placed  upon  the  doorway  obedient  to  the  divine  command: 
"Thou  shalt  write  them  (the  laws)  upon  the  doorsteps  of  thy  house 
and  upon  thy  gates."  Within  the  cylinder  were  the  words  of  the  Lord 
as  given  to  Moses:  "Jehovah  is  our  God,  Jehovah  alone."  Can  we 
parents  not  become  more  and  more  the  teachers  of  our  children  ?  With 
God's  blessing  I  hope  we  may.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

I  think  I  may  voice  the  appreciation  of  this  entire  audience  to  the 
Jordan  choir  for  the  sweet  music  they  have  rendered  to  us  this  after- 
noon. There  is  an  expression  of  ancient  times  that  when  other  heav- 
enly muses  were  called  away  from  earth  that  music,  a  'divine  hand- 
maiden, remained  behind,  self-exiled,  for  man's  sake. 

I  have  only  recently  found  my  text  for  remarks  for  the  few  min- 
utes that  are  allotted  to  me.  They  are  to  be  found  in  the  fifteenth  chap- 
ter of  Matthew.  The  Lord,  our  Redeemer,  is  rebuking  the  scribes  and 
Pharisees,  and  he  is  teaching  the  doctrine  that  "not  that  which  goeth  into 
the  mouth  defileth  the  man;  but  that  which  cometh  out  of  the 
mouth,  this  defileth  a  man."  You  will  remember  that  the  Pharisees 
complained  of  these  men  of  God  for  not  washing  their  hands,  and  it 
brought  forth  the  rebuke  from  the  Master  that  they  were  hypocrites, 
that  they  drew  near  him  with  their  mouths  and  with  the  lips  gave  hon- 
or, but  their  hearts  were  far  from  him.  He  reminded  them  that  they 
were  violating  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  in  not  honoring  father 
and  mother,  that  they  would  withhold  their  substance  by  the  use  of  the 
word  "corban,"  it  is  a  gift,  and  therefore  did  not  honor  nor  sustain 
father  and  mother.  Then  he  went  on  to  say,  when  his  disciples  told 
him  that  the  Pharisees  were  offended  at  what  he  said :  "Every  plant, 
which  my  heavenly  Father  hath  not  planted,  shall  be  rooted  up."  We  have 
heard  at  this  conference  of  some  of  these  plants  which  our  heavenly 
Father  has  not  planted  and  which  must  be  rooted  up — those  mentioned 
by  President  Ivins  this  morning  in  that  learned  address  given  by  him. 
He  enumerated  some  of  the  evils  of  the  past,  the  result  of  civil  plants 
being  planted  on  ecclesiastical  soil,  and  ecclesiastical  plants  on  civil 
soil.  The  Junkerism  of  Potsdam,  and  the  Kaiserism  of  Germany  were 
plants  that  the  heavenly  Father  did  not  plant,  and  therefore  they  had 
(to  be  rooted  up  at  the  cost  of  so  many  billions  of  treasure  and  mil- 
lions of  lives.  And  so  here  are  other  plants  in  our  own  nation  and 
in  other  countries  of  the  world  that  are  not  plants  that  the  heavenly 
Father  has  planted,  and  they  must  be  rooted  up. 

In  connection  with  the  words  of  the  Savior  that  that  which  cometh 
out  of  the  mouth  defileth  a  man,  on  the  very  day  that  this  conference 
assembled,  on  the  6th  of  April,  a  press  dispatch  gave  an  account  of 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.HART 


131 


testimony  in  court  of  an  officer  of  Los  Angeles,  a  former  I.  W.  W., 
who  swore  that  it  was  the  doctrine  of  the  I.  W.  W.'s  that  the  church 
was  the  greatest  curse  of  the  world,  that  there  was  no  God,  no  heaven 
and  no  hell.  He  said  other  things  that  defiled  him,  as  a  witness,  by 
merely  recounting  the  beliefs  and  utterances  of  the  members  of  his 
former  order.  It  defiled  the* press  to  even  repeat  the  sworn  testimony 
of  this  officer.  It  would  be  desecration  and  blasphemy  on  my  part  even 
to  repeat  the  things  which  that  witness  and  the  press  published  in 
reference  to  our  Redeemer  and  Savior. 

Time  would  not  permit  this  afternoon  to  enumerate  the  many 
things  which  you  know  are  plants  which  our  heavenly  Father  has  not 
planted  and  which  must  be  rooted  up.  On  the  other  hand  we  may 
think  of  the  many  plants  which  he  has  planted, — the  glorious  princi- 
ples recorded  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  in  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, and  brought  forth  in  connection  with  the  restoration  of  the  gos- 
pel,-— all  plants  which  our  heavenly  Father  has  planted  and  which  need 
not  be  rooted  up, — indeed,  can  not  be. 

I  heard  praise  today  of  our  missioniary  system; — praise  for  the  ac- 
complishments of  our  boys  in  the  field.  This  is  a  true  field  of  edu- 
cation. This  missionary  system  is  a  plant  which  our  heavenly  Father 
has  planted,  and  therefore,  if  the  missionaries  do  their  part,  the  re- 
sults are  wonderful.  We  almost  need  to  be  introduced  to  our  boys  as 
they  come  home,  they  have  developed  so  rapidly.  It  was  my  joy  yes- 
terday to  go  into  the  afternoon  meeting  with  my  son  whom  I  had  not 
seen  for  two  and  a  half  years,  serving  in  the  mission  field,  as  your 
boys  and  your  girls  serve.  Those  of  you  who  have  had  similar  expe- 
riences understand  the  joy  of  a  father  and  mother  who  have  these  ex- 
periences. 

Speaking  of  this  system  of  education,  in  this  age,  when  all  things 
are  being  tested  anew,  I  am  reminded  of  the  fact  that  William  George 
Jordan,  the  author  of  Great  Truths,  a  book  with  which  many  of  you 
are  familiar,  a  book  given  away  by  the  hundreds,  if  not  by  the  thou- 
sands, by  the  president  of  our  Church, — Mr.  Jordaivis  framing  an  in- 
dictment just  now  against  the  educational  system  of  our  country.  The 
articles  are  being  published  in  The  Forum,  under  the  head  of,  "What 
Is  the  Matter  with  Education?"  Two  articles  have  been  published  in 
the  March  and  April  numbers  and  two  more  are  promised.  Already 
a  very  broad  indictment  against  our  present  system  of  education  has 
been  formulated.  It  is  yet  too  early  for  one  to  pass  judgment  upon 
the  merits  of  this  controversy,  which  will  probably  be  participated  in 
by  some  of  the  seven  hundred  thousand  teachers  in  the  United  States, 
the  best  of  whom  may  answer  the  various  counts  in  indictment.  It 
is  too  early,  with  only  a  half  of  hi.s  indictment  penned,  to  undertake 
to  speak  of  the  merits,  just  as  one  would  not  wisely  venture  to  name 
his  son  after  a  living  statesman,  but  would  wait  until  his  life's  work 
is  finished.  However,  I  venture  there  will  be  some  counts  in  this 
broad  indictment, — an  indictment  that  is  altogether  too  sweeping — in 


.  V 

132  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

which  merit  will  be  found.  There  will  be  time  enough  when  the  in- 
dictment is  fully  returned,  and  has  been  answered  by  the  educators, 
for  the  American  people  to  reach  a  verdict  on  the  controversy;  but  1 
think  the  underlying  secret  of  effective  education,  will  be  found  to  be 
the  wise  commingling  of  theory  and  practice  such  as  obtains  in  our 
missionary  system.  The  young  missionary  is  applying  in  his  life  and 
in  his  teachings  the  principles  of  truth  as  he  learns  them.  I  am  not 
making  a  plea  for  less  preparation  at  home,  but  am  trying  to  show 
the  advantage  of  learning  and  having  the  practice  at  the  same  time. 
Time  will  not  permit  to  develop  even  the  theory  of  this  great  essay- 
ist, but  in  brief  he  says  that  man  has  seven  lives — not  in  the  same 
sense  that  a  cat  has  been  said  to  have  nine  lives,  but  he  divides  up 
the  phases  of  life  into  physical,  mental,  moral  or  ethical,  aesthetic  or 
emotional,  the  civic  life,  the  social  life,  and  the  religious  life.  He 
makes  an  appeal  for  the  training  and  development  of  the  senses  which 
will  enable  one  to  properly  respond  in  this  life  to  these  seven  phases 
of  life. 

Recently  we  have  had  throughout  the  Church  instruction  in  the 
restoration  of  the  Priesthood,  a  system  which  the  Lord  has  devised, — 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  which  he  planted  when  John,  the  son  of 
Zacharias,  laid  his  hands  upon  the  head  of  Joseph  and  Oliver  and  ut- 
tered those  beautiful  words  recorded  in  the  13th  Section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants.  And  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  was  re-planted 
when  Peter,  James  and  John  laid  their  hands  upon  Joseph  and  Oliver 
and  restored  a  Priesthood  named  after  Melchizedek,  the  great  high 
priest,  so-called  to  avoid  the  too  frequent  repetition  of  the  precious 
and  sacred  name  of  Deity, — to  be  held  sacred  from  too  frequent  rep- 
itition  in  the  pulpit  as  well  as  elsewhere ;  the  Priesthood  after  the 
order  of  -Enoch,  which  was  after  the  order  of  the  Only  Begotten  Son 
in  the  flesh,  of  the  Father.  We  have  learned  of  some  of  the  sublime 
truths  pertaining  to  these  branches  of  the  Priesthood.  One  of  the 
sublime  revelations  on  Priesthood  closes  with  these  words:  "Where- 
fore, now,  let  every  man  learn  his  duty  to  act  in  the  office  in  which 
he  is  appointed  in  all  diligence.  He  that  is  slothful  shall  not  be 
counted  worthy  to  stand,  and  he  that  learns  not  his  duty  and  shows 
himself  not  approved  shall  not  be  counted  worthy  to  stand." 

There  is  a  very  significant  passage  or  verse,  the  19th  of  the  136th 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  which  I  should  like  to  read : 
"Zion  shall  be  redeemed  in  mine  own  due  time,  and  if  any  man  shall 
seek  to  build  up  himself,  and  seeketh  not  my  counsel,  he  shall  have  no 
power,  and  his  folly  shall  be  made  manifest."  This  is  from  a  revela- 
tion to  the  Prophet  Brigham  Young.  There  are  other  verses  here  of 
a  practical  nature.  We  might  read  with  profit  the  remainder  of  that 
section  in  reference  to  care  in  borrowing  and  returning,  in  delivering 
to  our  neighbor  lost  goods,  and  a  number  of  very  practical  things  incul- 
cating the  principles  of  honesty  and  integrity,  principles  to  be  culti- 
vated particularly  among  our  boys  and  girls. 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


133 


May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  serve  him,  help  us  to  estab- 
lish all  the  plants  which  our  heavenly  Father  has  planted,  and  assist 
us  in  uprooting  other  plants  which  he  has  not  planted,  is  my  prayer 
and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 

(President  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  We  have  had  a  variety  of  .speaking  and 
speakers  this  afternoon,  to  whom  vou  have  listened,  I  have  no  doubt, 
with  great  pleasure,  as  I  have. 

On  Friday  morning  President  Heber  J.  Grant  made  some  remark; 
about  the  dedication  of  the  Salt  Lake  temple,  and  referred  to  some 
persons  who  are  still  living  that  were  among  the  general  authorities  of 
the  Church  at  the  time  of  the  dedication  Services. 

I  heard  President  Wilford  Woodruff  tell  of  this  incident  connected 
with  his  ministry.  He  said  that  several  years  before  the  temple 
was  completed,  he  was  sitting  on  the  east  steps  of  the  temple  entrance 
and  President  Brigham  Young  came  to  him  and  said :  "Brother  Wood- 
ruff, take  the  keys  and  unlock  the  doors  of  the  temple  and  let  the 
people  in."  When  President  Woodruff  awoke  on  the  following  morn- 
ing, he  wondered  why  he  was  commissioned  to  let  the  people  into  the 
temple,  realizing  that  President  John  Taylor  was  at  that  time  president 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  But  time  passed  along 
swiftly  as  usual.  President  Taylor  passed  away  on  July  25,  1887,  to  his 
eternal  great  reward,  and  about  two  or  three  years  after  his  demise,  Pres- 
ident Woodruff,  being  President  of  the  Twelve  and  consequently  the 
presiding  officer  of  the  Church  was  sustained  and  set  apart  as  President 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  This  occurred 
April  7,  1889.  Four  years  thereafter,  the  temple  was  completed, 
April  6,  1893.  President  Woodruff  then  said  :"I  realize  now  that 
my  appointment  was  proper,  I  have  taken  the  keys,  and  I  have  unlocked 
the  doors  of  the  temple,  and  I  have  bidden  the  people  to  enter  to  our 
dedicatorial  services." 

I  am  pleased  to  see  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  advancing 
along  the  lines  of  higher  education.  I  observe  during  this  conference 
the  system  of  wireless  telegraphy,  or  wave  motions  of  sound  that 
are  spoken  into  a  receiver  or  transmitter  and  carried  to  every 
part  of  the  house.  In  speaking  of  this  matter,  a  lady  addressed  me 
at  noon  time  today,  one  of  my  acquaintances,  and  said:  "Brother 
Young,  I  heard  the  speakers  tolerably  well  inside  the  house — I  was 
at  the  extreme  end  of  the  building— -but  when  I  stepped  out  through 
the  open  door  I  could  hear  with  much  greater  distinctness  than  I 
could  on,  the  inside,"  and  she  thought  the  sound  waves  advanced 
irregularly,  and  it  reminded  me  of  our  recent  storms  that  we  have 
had.    The  storms  sometimes  have  a  center  of  fierceness.   In  Salt  Lake 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


City  the  storm  rages;  out  at  Cottonwood,  seven  or  eight  or  ten  miles 
away,  they  scarcely  know  about  having  any  storm  at  the  same  time, 
so  that  the  storm  waves  gather  and  spread  in  cycles  in  different  parts 
of  the  country.  So  it  is  with  our  sound  waves  that  come  through  the 
transmitter  into  the  great  tabernacle  during  this  conference,  and  by 
and  by  they  will  arrive  at  a  greater  perfection  in  transmitting  sound 
this  way  to  different  parts  of  our  great  buildings,  and  the  perfection 
will  come  with  the  experience  that  we  shall  gain. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in  our  organizations.  Doctor 
Winship,  when  he  was  here,  speaking  hefore  the  school  boards  of  the 
state,  made  this  remark:  "The  system  of  teaching  the  young  people 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  from  the  age  of  twelve  years  to  the  age  of 
eighteen,  is  superior  to  that  of  any  other  community  with  whom  I  have 
been  acquainted."  That,  now,  is  a  very  welcome  compliment  paid  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  by  a  man  who  knew  whereof  he  spoke. 

Recently  I  have  observed  that  the  physicians  have  again  decided 
after  thorough  investigation  of  the  power  or  principles  or  stimulating 
effects  of  alcohol — that  alcohol  is  not  a  stimulant — you  know  we  are 
trying  to  observe  absolutely  the  system  that  will  do  away  entirely 
with  the  use  of  stimulants  from  the  alcoholic  process.  Now,  they 
registered  one  hundred  patients  of  typhoid  fever.  Fifty  of  them  were 
given  stimulants  in  the  way  of  alcohol,  because  certain  physicians  rec- 
ommended that  it  be  given  as  a  stimulant  to  aid  them  in  their  re- 
covery. Thirty-five  per  cent  of  that  fifty  died  under  the  stimulat- 
ing process.  Out  of  the  other  fifty  who  had  no  alcohol,  thirty-five 
of  them  recovered.  It  has  been  proved  that  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
when  they  took  the  stand  for  absolute  prohibition,  and  as  they  are  teach- 
ing it  today,  went  on  the  side  of  the  right,  they  had  the  right  view 
of  the  matter,  and  by  this  means  they  are  safe-guarchng  the  rising 
and  growing  generations  of  our  children.  I  am  glad  to  be  a  Latter- 
day  Saint.  I  rejoice  that  I  have  fellowship  among  my  brethren  and 
sisters. 

I  want  to  say  this  for  the  information  of  some  who  are  here  and 
maybe  don't  know  that  the  recent  amendment  of  Senator  Reed 
Smoot  has  brought  into  the  circle  of  pension  receivers  about  two  or 
three  hundred  more.  There  are  certain  rules  yet  that  we  cannot 
quite  reach  with  all  of  the  legislation  that  has  been  enacted  in  favor 
of  the  pensioners  of  the  Indian,  -vars  of  Utah,  but  Senator  Smoot 
has  again  introduced  another  bill  of  protest  which  is  more  sweeping 
in  its  character,  and  those  who  are  deserving  of  pensions  and  who 
will  be  left  out  at  the  present  time  will  only  have  to  wait  a  little 
longer.  When  his  new  bill  becomes  a  law  I  think  it  will  take  in  all 
that  are  worthy  of  the  pension  claim. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  pray  the  Lord  to  bltss  you.  I  feel 
in  my  heart  glad  to  be  with  you  today,  and  I  pray  that  the  spirit 
of  your  mision,  fathers  and  mothers,  may  rest  upon  you  constantly, 
that  you  may  be  indeed  not  only  parents  to  your  children,  but  friends 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 


135 


to  them,  and  actual  associates  with  them  and  get  into  the  deeper  recesses 
of  their  hearts  by  your  kindness  and  your  solicitation  for  their  wel- 
fare, and  let  them  feel  that  you  love  them,  that  you  love  them  dearly, 
and  that  you  have  their  interest  at  heart  all  the  day  long,  and  thus 
you  will  easily  bring  your  children  into  lines  of  greater  perfection 
as  they  advance  in  life,  preparing  them  for  the  great  events  that  are 
to  transpire  in  the  future,  and  fitting  them  to  take  the  places  of  their 
parents  in  the  leadership  and  membership  of  the  great  societies  of  the 
Church,  and  thus  making  good  your  parentage  in  the  rearing  of 
your  children  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord.  God  bless  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang.  "The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire 
is  burning." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  James  I.  May,  of  Honey- 
ville,  Utah. 

CLOSING  SESSION 

The  Conference  was  continued  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Sunday  after- 
noon, April  8,  1923,  at  2  o'clock.    President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  cho;r  and  congregation  sang,  "Praise  to  the  man  who  com- 
muned with  Jehovah." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Henry  H.  Rolapp,  of  the  general 
auditing  committee. 

The  choir  sang,  "Have  faith,  ye  Saints,"  music  by  Professor  A.  C. 
Lund,  words  by  Burt  Auerbach. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

I  have  had  a  great  many  reflections ;  many  thoughts  have  come 
into  my  mind  during  this  conference.  I  realize  that  I  can  only  men- 
tion one  or  two  this  afternoon. 

THE  WORLDS  ARE  A  MEANS  TO  AN  END,  NOT  THE  END  ITSELF. 

There  comes  to  my  mind  an  expression  in  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price,  in  the  vision  of  Moses,  which  was  given  at  a  time  when  Moses 
was  caught  up  into  an  exceeding  high  mountain  and  saw  God  face 
to  face  and  talked  with  him.,  The  Lord  showed  to  Moses  the  "work- 
manship of  his  hands,"  and  Moses  beheld  the  world,  and  all  the  chil- 
dren of  men  to  the  latest  generations. 

And  the  Lord  said  to  Moses : 

"For  behold  there  are  many  worlds  that  have  passed  away  by  the 
word  of  my  power.  And  there  are  many  that  now  stand,  and  innumerable 
are  they  unto  man,  but  all  things  are  numbered  unto  me,  tor  they  are  mine 
and  I  know  them. 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


And  it  came  to  pass  that  Moses  spake  unto  the  Lord,  saying:  Be  mer- 
ciful unto  thy  servant,  O  God,  and  tell  me  concerning  this  earth  and  the 
inhabitants  thereof,  and  also  the  heavens,  and  then  thy  servant  will  be  con- 
tent. 

And  the  Lord  God  spake  unto  Moses,  saying:  The  heavens,  they  are 
many,  and  they  cannot  be  numbered  unto  man ;  but  they  are  numbered  unto 
me,  for  they  are  mine." 

We  are  informed  by  astronomers  that  some  of  these  worlds  are 
so  large  that  they  would  fill  the  space  occupied  by  our  sun,  and  ex- 
tending out  to  the  orbit  of  Mars,  far  beyond  the  orbit  of  the  earth  on 
which  we  dwell.  Such,  they  say,  is  the  case  in  regard  to  the  great 
star  in  the  constellation  of  Orion.  While  reflecting  on  this  matter  the 
thought  comes  to  mind  that  notwithstanding  the  countless  number  of 
worlds  and  the  great  magnitude  of  many  of  them,  they  are  a  means 
to  an  end,  and  not  the  end  itself.  The  Father  is  creating  worlds  for 
the  purpose  of  peopling  them — placing  upon  them  his  sons  and  his 
daughters.  We  are  informed  in  section  76  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, that  by  and  through  the  Son  of  God,  the  "worlds  are  and  were 
created,  and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters 
unto  God." 

MAN  THE  MOST  IMPORTANT  OF  GOD'S  CREATIONS 

We  learn  from  these  scriptures  from  which  I  have  read  and  from 
other  revelations  from  the  Lord,  that  man  is  the  most  important  of  all 
our  Father's  creations.  In  the  same  vision  given  to  Moses,  the  Father 
said :  "And  as  one  earth  shall  pass  away,  and  the  heavens 
thereof,  even  so  shall  another  come ;  and  there  is  no  end  to  my  works, 
neither  to  my  words.  For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to 
bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man." 

god's  love  for  mankind. 

From  this,  and  other  scripture,  I  say,  we  learn  that  the  great 
work  of  the  Father  is  to  bring  to  pass  the  salvation  of  his  children 
giving  unto  each  that  reward  which  each  merits  according  to  his 
works.  I  feel  most  assuredly  that  our  Father  in  heaven  is  far  more 
interested  in  a  soul — one  of  his  children — than  it  is  possible  for  an 
earthly  father  to  be  m  one  of  his  children.  His  love  for  us  is  greater 
than  can  be  the  love  of  an  earthly  parent  for  his  offspring.  In  an- 
other part  of  this  record  we  are  informed  that  when  the  Lord  spoke 
to  Enoch  and  showed  to  him,  the  nations  of  the  earth  and  explained 
to  him  the  nature  of  the  punishment  that  should  befall  them  for 
their  transgressions  of  his  commandments,  that  the  Lord  wept  and 
showed  his  sorrow  in  tears  for  their  disobedience.  Because  of  this, 
Enoch  marvelled  and  thought  it  strange  that  the  Lord  could  weep. 

Here  is  the  passage: 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  God  of  heaven  looked  upon  the  residue 
of  the  people,  and  he  wept;  and  Enoch  bore  record  of  it,  saying:  How  is 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  137 


it  that  the  heavens  weep,  and  shed  forth  their  tears  as  tne  rain  upon  the 
mountains? 

"And  Enoch  said  unto  the  Lord:  How  is  it  that  thou  c^nst  weep,  seeing 
thou  art  holy  and  from  all  eternity  to  all  eternity? 

"And  were  it  possible  that  man  could  number  the  particles  of  the  earth, 
yea  millions  of  earths  like  this,  it  would  not  be  a  beginning  to  the  number 
of  thy  creations;  and  thy  curtains  are  stretched  out  still;  and  yet  thou  art 
there,  and  thy  bosom  is  there  and  also  thou  art  merciful  and  kind  forever.' 

And  the  Lord  answered:  "*  *  *  Behold  these  thy  brethren;  they 
are  the  workmanship  of  mine  own  hands,  and  I  gave  unto  them  their 
knowledge,  in  the  day  I  created  them;  and  in  the  Garden  of  Eden,  gave  I 
unto  man  his  agency; 

"And  unto  thy  brethren  have  I  said,  and  also  given  commandment,  that 
thev  should  choose  me,  their  Father;  but  behold  they  are  without  affection, 
and  they  hate  their  own  blood." 

MAN  MUST  BE  REDEEMED  ACCORDING  TO  LAW 

These  are  reasons  why  the  Lord  wept  and  why  the  heavens  wept. 

I  was  asked  by  a  brother  one  time  if  a  man  could  be  perfectly 
happy  in  the  celestial  kingdom  if  one  of  his  children  was  not  permit- 
ted to  enter  there.  I  told  him  that  I  supposed  that  any  man  who  was 
so  unfortunate  as  to  have  one  of  his  children  barred  from  the  celes- 
tial kingdom  would,  of  course,  have  feelings  of  sorrow  because  of  that 
condition;  and  that  is  just  the  position  our  Father  in  heaven  is  in.. 
(Not  all  of  his  children  are  worthy  of  celestial  glory,  and  many  are 
forced  to  suffer  his  wrath  because  of  their  transgressions,  and  this 
causes  the  Father  and  the  whole  heavens  to  have  sorrow  and  to  weep. 
The  Lord  works  in  accordance  with  natural  law.  Man  must  be  re- 
deemed according  to  law  and  his  reward  must  be  based  on  the  law  of 
justice.  Because  of  this  the  Lord  will  not  give  unto  men  that  which 
they  do  not  merit,  but  shall  reward  all  men  according  to  their  works. 

THE  WORTH  OF  SOULS  GREAT  IN  THE  SIGHT  OF  GOD. 

In  my  preaching  I  have  always  tried  to  be  consistent  and  to  be 
careful,  keeping  in  mind  the  things  that  I  have  said  here  this  after- 
noon, knowing  the  worth  of  souls.  The  Lord  made  the  statement, 
in  one  of  the  revelations  given  shortly  before  the  organization  of  the 
Church,  that  the  worth  of  souls  is  great : 

"Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of  God : 

"For  behold,  the  Lord  your  Redeemer  suffered   death  in  the  flesh: 

wherefore  he  suffered  the  pain  of  all  men  that  all  men  might  repent  and 

come  unto  him." 

Knowing  this,  and  realizing  as  I  think  I  do  the  fact  that  the  hu- 
man soul, — and  by  that  I  mean  the  spirit  and  body  combined — is 
the  most  important  of  all  the  works  of  God,  I  have  tried  to  be  care- 
full  in  my  teachings  only  to  express  those  things  which  are  true  and 
which  can  be  proved  by  the  revelations  of  the  Lord,  fearing  lest  I 
should  teach  something  that  was  not  true  and  which  might  affect  my 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


brother  and  my  sister  and  cause  that  they  might  depart  from  the  path 
of  truth  and  righteousness. 

THE  GOSPEL  PLAN  NOT  EASY  FOR  THE  WAYWARD. 

I  have  never  been  able  in  my  teachings  to  make  the  gospel  plan 
appear  easy;  that  is,  to  hold  out  hopes  to  those  who  are  indifferent,  to 
those  who  are  wayward,  to  those  who  wilfully  break  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord  and  will  not  hearken  unto  these  truths  when  every 
opportunity  is  given  them  to  obey  the  truth.  I  have  always  tried  to  im- 
press upon  the  people  the  fact  that  the  gate  is  strait  and  the  way  is 
narrow  which  leadelh  unto  life  and  few  there  be  that  find  it, — in  ref- 
erence to  the  celestial  kingdom  of  God.  I  know  that  the  Father  will 
save  all  the  workmanship  of  his  hands  in  the  three  great  kingdoms, 
the  Celestial,  the  Terrestrial  or  the  Telestial,  except  Sons  of  Perdition. 
But  only  the  righteous,  those  who  are  just  and  true,  .shall  enter  the 
Celestial  Kingdom. 

OUR  DUTY  TO  LABOR  FOR  THE  SALVATION  OF  MAN 

Now,  if  the  worth  of  souls  is  great,  then  we  ought  to  be  engaged 
in  the  saving  of  souls ;  and  I  feel  that  it  is  the  duty  of  every  man  hold- 
ing the  Priesthood  not  only  to  strive  to  save  himself  and  his  immediate 
family,  but  it  is  his  duty  to  labor  in  that  Priesthood  for  the  salvation 
of  all  men ;  and  this  responsibility  rests  not  merely  upon  those  who  hold 
the  Priesthood,  but  upon  all  the  members  of  the  Church  who  know  the 
truth. 

For  a  moment  or  two,  however,  I  desire  to  reverse  this  picture; 
and  the  reason  that  I  do  is  because  of  the  remarks  that  have  been 
made  here  concerning  the  doctrines  of  false  teachers  in  the  world — 
men  who  stand  up  before  the  congregations  of  the  people,  telling  them 
not  to  believe  in  Christ,  that  he  is  not  the  Son  of  God,  that  he  did  not 
rise  from  the  dead,  that  he  did  not  atone  for  the  sins  of  the  world. 

DENYING   CHRIST    A   FEARFUL  RESPONSIBILITY. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  let  me,  if  I  can,  impress  upon  you  this 
thought:  If  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  as  I  have  shown,  and  our  joy 
shall  be  great  in  heaven  with  those  we  may  be  able  to  bring  unto  the 
strait  and  narrow  way,  what  will  be  our  feelings  if,  through  any 
teachings  of  ours,  one  soul  is  barred  from  the  Celestial  Kingdom?  If 
that  which  we  have  taught  and  practiced  shall  destroy  the  faith  of  one 
individual  so  that  he  does  not  accept  the  truth  and  that  fact  is  made 
known  unto  us  when  we  stand  before  the  judgment  seat; — then,  let  me 
ask,  how  great  will  be  our  sorrow,  how  great  will  be  the  condemna- 
tion which  we  will  merit  in  that  we  have  barred,  through  our  influence 
and  through  our  teachings,  one  of  the  children  of  our  Father  from  en- 
tering into  eternal  exaltation?  I  tell  you  that  these  men  who  stand  up 
and  say  that  Jesus  is  not  the  Christ,  that  he  was  a  great  teacher,  but 
not  the  Son  of  God,  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father,  and  thus  lead 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


139 


many  to  deny  the  power  of  the  resurrection  and  the  divinity  of  Christ, 
are  taking  upon  themselves  a  most  terrible  responsibility  that  should  cause 
them  to  fear  and  tremble.  I  could  not  stand  it  to  know  that  I  had 
taught  an  untruth  that  would  lead  people  to  destruction.  And  when 
these  men  realize  what  they  have  clone  and  that,  not  only  their  own 
souls  have  not  been  saved,  but  they  have  been  the  means  of  destroy- 
ing the  souls  of  other  men,  leading  them  away  from  truth  and  right- 
eousness, I  tell  you  that  it  shall  be  hard  with  them,  and  their  pun- 
ishment shall  be  most  severe  in  eternity. 

MEN  SHOULD  TEACH   WHAT  THEY  UNDERSTAND. 

I  mention  these  matters  that  our  attention  may  be  called  to  that 
which  is  our  duty ;  and  that  a  man  should  not  teach  that  which  he 
does  not  know  to  be  the  truth.  The  revelations  of  the  Lord  have  been 
given  unto  us  for  our  salvation  that  we  may  understand  and  walk  in 
the  light,  that  we  may  teach  others  and  impart  unto  them  the  same 
instructions  that  we  receive,  that  they,  likewise,  may  receive  salvation ; 
for  I  am  satisfied  that  our  Father  in  heaven  would,  if  it  were  possi- 
ble, save  all  men  and  give  unto  them  celestial  glory,  even  the  fulness 
of  exaltation.  But,  he  has  given  unto  man  his  agency  and  man  is 
under  the  necessity  of  obeying  the  truth  according  to  that  which  is  re- 
vealed in  order  to  obtain  the  exaltation  of  the  righteous.  We  are  not 
walking  now  by  sight,  as  we  did  before  we  came  into  this  world,  but 
the  Lord  expects  that  we  shall  walk  by  faith ;  and  walking  by  faith  we 
shall  receive  the  reward  of  the  righteous,  if  we  adhere  unto  those  com- 
mandments which  are  given  for  our  salvation  and  that  men  may  again 
come  back,  through  the  resurrection  from  the  ri^rt  into  +t>e  presence 
of  the  Father  and  the  Son. 

THE  BEST  IS  THE  FULNESS  OF  THE  FATHER'S  KINGDOM. 

I  know  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  that  he 
came  into  the  world  to  take  upon  him  the  transgression  of  every  soul 
who  would  repent ;  and  that  we,  through  our  repentance  and  our  faith 
and  our  acceptance  of  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  shall  receive  full 
salvation  through  the  shedding  of  his  blood  and  through  the  atonement 
which  he  brought  to  pass  that  we  might  receive  these  blessings.  More- 
over, I  know  that  all  men  shall  be  redeemed  from  death,  because  men 
are  not  responsible  for  death,  therefore  Jesus  Christ  has  redeemed 
them  from  death  through  the  shedding  of  his  blood.  They  shall  rise  in 
the  resurrection,  every  man  to  receive  his  reward  according  to  his 
works.  We  who  have  received  the  truth  of  the  everlasting  gospel 
ought  not  to  be  satisfied  with  anything  short  of  the  best,  and  the  best 
is  the  fulness  of  the  Father's  kingdom;  and  for  that  I  hope  and  pray 
we  shall  live  and  set  examples  in  righteousness  to  all  men  that  none 
may  stumble,  that  none  may  falter,  that  none  may  turn  from  the  path 
of  righteousness,  due  to  anything  that  we  may  do  or  say,  and  I  ask  it 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

A    CONDITION    OF    THE    COVENANT   TO  ABRAHAM 

On  each  day  of  this  great  conference,  and  I  believe  at  every 
session,  the  name  of  the  great  patriarch  Abraham  has  been  mentioned, 
and  whenever  I  have  heard  it  I  have  thought  in  part  of  that  for 
which  his  name  stands — Abraham,  the  man  unto  whom  the  Lord  spake 
when  again  the  world  had  gone  to  apostasy,  the  man  with  whom  he 
made  covenant  and  established  the  gospel.  There  had  been  apostasies 
before  and  a  great  apostasy  was  then  in  progress,  when  the  Lord 
spake  unto  him.  making  covenant  with  him,  definite,  sure  and  blessed ; 
among  other  things  telling  him  that  through  him  and  his  posterity  all 
nations  of  the  earth  should  be  blessed.  This  was  one  of  the  condi- 
tions of  the  covenant,  that  he  and  his  posterity  should  serve  the  true 
and  the  living  God,  the  God  who  spoke  unto  him,  Jehovah. 

THE  CHILDREN  OF  ISRAEL,  WORSHIPERS  OF  JEHOVAH 

The  world  was  pagan,  heathen  and  idolatrous,  and  the  Lord 
would  have  some  few  at  least  whom  he  could  call  his  own.  There- 
fore did  he  establish  his  covenant  with  Abraham,  and  later  he  affirm- 
ed it  with  Isaac  and  again  with  Jacob  whose  children  are  known  by  the 
honored  title  "the  children  of  Israel."  One  of  the  characteristics  of 
that  chosen  people — for  chosen  they  were  and  are — was  and  is  that 
they  be  worshipers  of  the  living  God,  not  the  gods  of  men,  not  the 
idols  that  men  may  fashion  with  their  hands,  nor  the  fantastic  deities 
that  men  may  hatch  out  in  their  minds  as  vague  conceptions  without 
bodies  or  parts,  without  place — but  *he  God  of  love  and  the  God  of 
fear,  the  God  than  whom  there  is  none  other  in  the  proper  sense  and 
usage  of  the  term. 

Consider  the  situation.  All  the  rest  of  the  world,  I  repeat,  had 
gone  after  idols,  and  Abraham  and  his  posterity  came  to  be  dis- 
tinguished amongst  the  nations  of  "Jehovah  worshipers."  That  was 
one  of  the  characteristics  by  which  the  children  of  Israel  were  known, 
even  during  their  Egyptian  bondage,  though  they  themselves  sometimes 
forgot  it  in  part,  by  which  they  were  known  throughout  the  scenes 
of  the  exodus,  by  which  they  were  known  after  their  etsablishment 
in  the  Promised  Land,  by  which  they  were  known  even  during  the 
time  of  their  great  transgressions,  for  even  when  the  people  as  a 
nation  had  become  recreant  there  were  amongst  them  many  who 
had  not  forgotten  the  God  of  their  fathers,  and  who  did  not  turn 
aside  after  Baal  or  Ashtoreth,  nor  after  the  Egyptian  Apis,  or  any  of 
the  rest  of  the  mythological  deities. 

THE  IDOLS   THAT   MEN  WORSHIP 

The  idols  that  man  makes  and  which  he  sets  up  and  worships 
are  the  workmanship  of  his  hands  or  mind.  The  God  of  our  spirits, 
verily  the  Father  of  our  spirits,  is  no  God  of  man's  creation.    He  creat- 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


141 


ed  us,  and  calls  upon  us  to  worship  him  and  to  obey  his  command- 
ments. Israel  was  a  peculiar  people  of  old,  and  has  remained  a 
peculiar  people  both  in  the  gathered  and  in  the  scattered  condition, 
and  that  was  one  of  the  signs  by  which  they  were  distinguished  from 
their  heathen,  pagan,  idolatrous  contemporaries,  and  by  which  they  are 
distinguished  from  their  heathen,  pagan,  idolatrous  contemporaries  today. 
For,  mark  you  ,  idolatry  never  was  more  rife,  and  paganism  was  never 
more  widespread  than  in  this  very  year  of  our  Lord,  1923.  Men  may  not 
now  put  their  golden  idols  or  their  images  of  silver,  or  brass,  or  iron, 
or  wood,  or  stone,  always  up  upon  pedestals,  and  physically  kneel  down 
before  them  and  worship  them.  Gold  need  not  always  be  cast  in  the 
form  of  a  calf  after  the  pattern  of  Apis  to  be  verily  the  god  of  man. 

ISRAEL  A  SABBATH-OBSERVING  PEOPLE 

There  were  other  signs  by  which  these  people,  who  were  called 
after  the  name  of  that  living  God,  were  distinguished.  One  of  them 
was  that  they  observed  every  seventh  day  as  the  Sabbath  of  the  Lord. 
Even  the  heathen  nations  had  their  fast  days,  but  such  were  instituted 
by  men  for  the  purpose  of  gratifying  the  Inst  of  men,  and  the  con- 
ceptions of  men  as  to  ceremonial  and  show.  The  Sabbath  of  the 
Lord  our  God  is  not  a  creation  of  men.  Jesus  the  Christ  is  Lord  of 
the  Sabbath,  and  Israel  amongst  the  pagan  world  was  characterized 
as  a  Sabbath-observing  people.  Did  not  the  Lord  say  through  Moses, 
again  through  Nehemiah,  and  again  through  Ezekel  and  through  oth- 
ers of  the  prophets — This  is  a  sign  'between  the  children  of  Israel  and 
me  ?  It  shall  be  a  sign  between  me  and  my  children  through  all  gener- 
ations forever,  that  they  shall  observe  my  Sabbaths. 

Pagan  sabbaths  were  holidays,  not  holy  clays.  Though  the  two 
terms  come  from  the  same  root,  there  is  a  vital  distinction  between 
them  at  the  present  time.  The  Lord  chided  the  people  of  old  because 
they  had  polluted  his  Sabbaths,  and  how  had  they  polluted  them?  Not 
always  by  continuing  their  worldly  work,  not  always  because  they  did 
not  cease  their  toil,  but  because  they  made  the  Sabbath  a  day  of 
pleasure  and  of  license  and  of  indulgence  that  was  evil,  and  forgot  to 
worship  the  Lord  their  God  specifically  on  that  day  of  rest.  We  are 
not  required,  nor  are  we  permitted^,  if  we  obey  the  law  of  God,  to  be 
idle.  We  should  be  active  and  in  service,  but  Sabbath-day  work  should 
be  directly  the  service  of  God  and  not  the  secular  and  wage-earning 
service  of  man. 

TITHE-PAYING   ANOTHER   CHARACTERISTIC  OF  ISRAEL 

There  was  another  prominent  distinction,  in  that  those  ancient 
Israelites,  even  before  they  came  to  be  a  nation,  and  later  as  a  na- 
tion, were  peculiar  amongst  the  peoples  of  the  earth  by  being  tithepayers. 
They  were  a  tithed  people.  Perhaps  some  scholars  may  say  that  even 
the  Egyptians  practiced  the  law  of  tithing.    Yes,  in  a  certain  way 


142 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


they  did,  and  other  pagan  nations  have  done  the  same,  but  to  all  such 
tithe  paying  was  a  law  that  they  had  established  amongst  themselves, 
and  that  they  put  into  operation  through  compulsion.  They  did  not 
practice  the  law  of  tithing  because  it  was  required  of  them  by  the 
Lord,  but  they  themselves  evolved  the  idea.  They  found  it  a  conven- 
ient method  of  taxation.  It  was  not  holy,  it  was  not  sacred  unto  them, 
but  in  early  days  the  Lord  made  it  plain  that  His  people,  to  be  accept- 
able unto  Him,  must  be  tithed,  and  everything  they  had  was  to  be 
tithed. 

THE  LAW  OF  SACRIFICE  CONTRASTED 

Now,  the  law,  very  often  called  the  Mosaic  law,  was  in  course 
of  time  superseded  by  the  gospel,  the  gospel  restored  through  the 
ministry  of  Christ — it  had  been  upon  the  earth  before.  The  gospel 
had  been  given  to  Adam  with  the  ordinances  essential  to  salvation. 
It  had  been  given  to  Noah,  it  had  been  given  to  Abraham,  but  it 
was  brought  again  by  the  Christ  after  a  long  period  of  partial  apostasy, 
during  which  period  the  chosen  people  were  living  under  the  lesser 
law,  but  that  lesser  law.  the  law  of  Mjjses  as  it  is  called,  was  not  destroyed 
by  the  coming  of  Christ.  He  said  he  came  not  to  destroy  it,  but  to  fulfil 
it,  and  it  was  fulfilled,  indeed  superseded  by  the  gospel.  The  gospel  jn- 
cluded  and  includes  everything  in  the  law  of  Moses  that  is  required  for 
the  salvation  of  men.  But  the  outward  ordinances  and  tiaiivr,g 
exercises  peculiar  to  the  law  of  Moses  were  largely  done  away  w'th,  for 
the  schoolmaster  had  been  in  a  manner  efficient,  and  had  brought 
his  wilful,  recreant,  ofttimes  stubborn  pupils  to  a  partial  understand- 
ing of  the  higher  law.  Many  of  us  think  that  with  the  passing  of 
the  law  of  Moses,  the  requirements  of  sacrifice  passed.  Nay,  nay,  the 
law  of  sacrif'ce  is  in  operation  today :  but  it  is  not  accompanied  by  the 
outward  form  and  manner  of  offerings  that  were  characteristic  of  that 
ordinance  in  the  day  of  Moses  and  during  the  Mosaic  dispensation. 

THE  PRESENT  A  DAY  OF  GATHERING 

Tlie  present  is  the  day  of  gathering,  when  Israel  are  being  as- 
sembled from  even  the  outermost  parts  of  the  earth,  when  the  Lord 
has  reached  out  his  hand  again  to  ga'her  his  people.  This  work 
is  in.  progress  at  such  a  rate  that  soon  shall  the  ancient  prophecv  and 
promise  be  realized,  as  voiced  by  Jeremiah :  "Therefore,  behold,  the 
days  come,  saith  the  Lord,  that  it  shall  no  more  be  said.  The  Lord 
liveth,  that  brought  up  the  children  of  Israel  out  of  the  land  of  Egypt; 

"But,  The  Lord  liveth,  that  brought  up  the  clv'ldren  of  Israel 
from  the  land  of  the  north,  and  from  all  the  lands  whither  he  had 
driven  them :  and  I  will  bring  them  again  into  their  land  that  I  gave 
urvto  their  fathers." 

THE  GOSPEL  OF  CHRIST  RESTORED  IN  THIS  DAY 


In  this  day  of  gathering  the  Lord  has  restored  the  gospel  of 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  T  ALU  AGE 


143 


Jesus  Christ,  and  he  has  done  it  in  the  way  predicted, the  way,  his 
way,  and  therefore  the  best  way  to  make  it  most  impressive.  He  re- 
quires of  Israel  today  those  same  signs  and  symbols  of  their  profes- 
sions, of  their  confessions,  that  were  required  of  them  of  old.  His 
people  today,  if  they  are  his  people  indeed,  must  be  worshipers  of  the 
true  and  the  living  God;  not  worshipers  of  some  conception  of  ars 
immaterial  being,  a  nondescript  nothing  that  fills  all  space  and  can 
nowhere  be  found,  but  a  living  God,  after  whose  physical,  mental  and 
spiritual  likeness  man  has  been  created.  God  the  Father  is  such  a 
being,  as  has  been  made  known  to  us  by  revelation  of  his  very  person ; 
and  Jesus  Christ  is  such  a  being.  Both  Jesus  Christ  and  the  Father 
have  been  seen  and  heard  in  this  day  and  age. 

THE  CHOSEN  PEOPLE  OF  GOD  MUST  OBSERVE  HIS  SABBATHS 

If  we  be  the  people  of  Israel,  the  chosen  people  of  God,  as  is 
our  high  profession,  we  must  be  thus  characterized.  Then,  whatever 
shall  be  the  fancies  and  fantasies  of  the  world,  let  us  be  true  to  the 
living  God,  the  God  who  with  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  was  manifested 
to  the  youthful  seeker  after  truth,  afterward  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  We  accept  the  God  of  our  fathers  in  all  literalness.  We  find 
that  we  can  come  much  nearer  unto  him  by  that  acceptance.  We,  the 
chosen  of  God,  must  show  forth  those  distinguishing  works  specified 
by  him.  Are  we  observing  his  Sabbaths?  Where  do  we  stand,  oh 
Israel?  Is  the  reproach  to  come  upon  us?  Are  we  polluting  that 
holy  day  by  pandering  to  our  own  lust  after  pleasure,  after  our  own 
laziness,  or  perchance,  giving  ourselves  up  to  the  pursuit  of  wealth 
on  that  day?  It  is  the  Lord's  dav,  not  ours.  He  has  given  us  six, 
but  the  seventh  is  his,  and  he  demands  tjiat  we  shall  recognize  it 
as  his  and  devote  every  hour  of  that  clay  to  his  service.  How  do  we 
stand,  where  is  that  sign  showing  forth  in  our  lives  and  in  our  work 
as  individuals  and  as  families?  Is  there  a  sign  over  your  door,  oh 
Latter-day  Saints,  showing  that  you  are  strict  observers  of  the  Sab- 
bath, or  have  you  been  swept  away  by  this  tide  of  apostasy  that  is 
ever  seeking  to  engulf? 

i 

TITHING  A  SIGN  OF  THE  GREAT  BROTHERHOOD  OF  GOD 

Are  we  showing  forth  this  other  sign  of  the  great  brotherhood  of 
God,  the  sanctifying  of  our  means  by  setting  as;de  the  Lord's  tenth 
aj  sacred,  and  as  holy?  We  have  no  right  to  use  it,  it  is  not  ours,  it 
is  the  Lord's.  Let  us  be  true  to  our  colors,  to  our  covenants,  to  our 
station  as  representatives  of  the  hving  God,  his  children,  his  covenant 
ch'ldren,  I  pray,  in  the  Lord's  name.  Amen. 

Brother  Jacob  Nichols  s^ng  a  solo  entitled,  "My  King." 


144 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PERSIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  General  Authorities  and  Officers  of  the  Church,  and 
by  unanimous  vote  of  the  assembly,  they  were  sustained  in  their  various 
offices  and  callings,  as  follows  : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Charles  W.  Penrose,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency.  . 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Reed  Smoot  James  E.  Talmage 

George  Albert  Smith  Stephen  L.  Richards 

George  F.  Richards  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Orson  F.  Whitntey  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

David  O.  McKay  John  A.  Widtsoe 

PRESIDING  PATRIARCH 

Hyrum  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  of  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and 
the  Presiding  Patriach  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

FIRST  SEVEN  PRESIDENTS  OF  SEVENTY 

Seymour  B.  Young  Rulon  S.  Wells 

Brigham  H.  Roberts  Joseph  W.  McMurrin 

Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Charles  H.  Hart 
Levi  Edgar  Young 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Charles  W.  Nibley,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  W ells,  Second  Counselor 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant,  as  Trustee-in-Trust,  for  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH   HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants :  Andrew  Jen- 
son,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  Win.  Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


145 


CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Charles  W.  Penrose  David  O.  McKay 

Anthony  W.  Ivins  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Willard  Young  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Rudger  Clawson  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Arthur  Winter, 

Sec.  and  Treas. 

COMMISSIONERS  OF  EDUCATION 

John  A.  Widtsoe        Stephen  L.  Richards    Richard  R  Lyman 

SUPERINTENDENT  OF  CHURCH  SCHOOLS 

Adam  S.  Bennion 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp         John  C.  Cutler  Peter  G.  Johnston 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor       Edward  P.  Kimball,  and 
B.  Cecil  Gates,  Asst.  Conductor    Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Asst.  Organists 
John  J.  McClellan,  Organist  George  C.  Smith,  Sec.  and  Treas. 

And  all  the  members  of  the  Choir 

CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Edward  H.  Anderson 

AUXILIARY  ORGANIZATIONS 

The  Officers  and  General  Board  members  of  the  Auxiliary  Organ- 
izations— the  Relief  Society,  the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union,  the 
Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association,  the  Young  Ladies' 
Mutual  Improvement  Association,  and  the  Primary  Association — were 
unanimously  sustained  as  at  present  constituted. 

We  regret  that  the  state  of  Brother  Orson  F.  Whitney's  health  is 
such  that  he  has  not  been  able  to  be  with  us  during  this  conference.  We' 
are  delighted  to  announce  that  he  has  very  greatly  improved  since  his 
return  from  Great  Britain,  and  we  hope  that  in  the  near  future  he  will 
be  able  to  take  up  actively  his  labors  among  the  people. 

We  regret  also  the  absence  of  Brother  Reed  Smoot  from  this 
conference.  He  came  from  Washington,  hoping  to  be  present  with  us 
at  the  conference  meetings,  but  he  was  called  back  on  important  business 
pertaining  to  our  country.  We  are  all  proud  of  the  very  splendid 
and  wonderful  record  that  he  is  making  at  the  Capitol. 

Elder  Andrew  Jenson,  one  of  our  Assistant  Church  Historians,  is 
on  a  vacation  and  has  gone  on  a  visit  to  South  America.  He  is  at  this 
time  on  top  of  the  Andes.  He  wanted  to  be  kindly  remembered  to  the 
good  people  at  this  conference. 


146 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

(Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church) 

This  is  a  very  wonderful  gathering ;  and  I  believe  that  those  who 
have,  attended  the  meetings  of  this  conference  have  been  well  paid.  1 
don't  remember  having  attended  any  conference  for  lo,  these  many  years, 
where  I  have  been  so  thrilled  in  rryr  spirit  with  the  remarks  of  the 
brethren,  the  testimonies  of  the  divine  Spirit,  and  the  singing  as  well, 
and  the  prayers  that  have  been  uttered,  as  at  this  conference. 

THE  CHURCH  IS  OUT  OF  DEBT 

For  the  short  time  that  I  shall  occupy  I  should  like  to  turn  from 
the  feast  of  spiritual  matters  with  which  you  have  been  fed,  to  the 
temporal.  First  of  all  I  want  to  congratulate  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  the  whole  Church,  for  to  it  I  extend  congratulations,  also 
and  especially  to  the  Trustee-in-Trust  of  the  Church,  on  the  fact  which 
was  announced  by  the  President  on  Friday — that  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  entirely  out  of  debt.  This  result  has  been 
accomplished  much  more  quickly  than  I  had  ever  hoped  it  could  be. 
I  did  hope  that  I  would  live  long  enough  to  see  the  Church  once  again  out 
of  debt ;  but  I  thought,  in  the  very  nature  of  things,  it  must  take  several 
years.  Now,  in  a  year  and  a  half  from  the  time  the  Trustee-in-Trust 
was  compelled  to  borrow  large  sums  of  money  to  save  certain  institu- 
tions in  which  the  Church  and  the  people  of  the  Church  were  largely 
and  directly  interested,  that  debt  has  been  wiped  out.  Now  the  Church 
has  enough  means  to  pay  every  dollar,  and  more  than  enough,  and  it 
is  entirely  out  of  debt,  except  for  little  current  matters  of  a  few  dollars. 
I  praise  the  Lord  with  all  my  heart  for  this  great  blessing;  and  T  hope 
that  never  during  my  lifetime,  will  I  see,  or  be  under  the  necessity  ot 
seeing,  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  will  ever 
be  in  debt  again. 

STAY  WITH  THE  FARM 

At  the  opening  session  of  our  conference  our  President  gave  us  a 
splendid  talk  on  practical  affairs,  advising  the  Saints  to  stick  to  their 
farms.  Too  many  people  who  are  reared  on  farms  say,  "Well,  I  want 
my  children  to  have  a  better  chance  than  I  have  had.  I've  had  to 
work  pretty  hard,  and  I  think  we  will  move  to  town  where  the  chil- 
dren will  grow  up  and  be  educated,  and  they  will  have  it  a  little 
eas:er  than  we  have  had  it — than  father  and  mother  have  had  it."  Well, 
now,  there  is  such  a  thing  as  a  man  working  too  hard,  and  many  of  us, 
many  of  you  farmers,  do  work  altogether  too  hard.  I  was  brought  up 
on  a  farm  mvself,  and  I  had  to  work  verv  hard,  and  many  of  you  in 
'hese  times,  I  am  sure,  work  too  hard.  There  is  wisdom  in  working; 
but,  after  all,  isn't  work  a  good  thing?  Is  is  not  written  that  "in  the 
sweat  of  thy  face  thou  shalt  eat  thy  bread."  I.  don't  think  it  is  a  good 
thing  to  instil  into  the  hearts  of  our  children  that  they  should  find  some 


BISHOP  CHARLES  W.  NIB  LEY 


147 


soft  snap,  or  easy  job,  which  does  not  require  much  work.  Let  nie  say, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  m.'ti  with  a  nice  little  farm — not  too 
large,  but  large  enough — out  of  debt,  is  the  king  among  men.  He  is 
an  example  to  us  all.  He  produces  possibly  all  that  he  and  his  family 
require  to  live  on ;  what  clothes  they  need  he  has  a  chance  to  get  for 
himself  and  family  just  as  well  as  anybody  else.  And  I  heartily  endorse 
the  counsel  of  President  Grant,  to  stick  to  the  farm.  It  is  good,  sound 
counsel.  It  is  wrong  to  run  off  into  speculation ;  to  get  our  farms 
heavily  mortgaged  so  that  we  finally  have  to  get  up  and  leave  them. 
The  counsel  to  secure  good,  comfortable  homes  for  our  families;  to  own 
our  own  homes,  and  to  keep  out  of  debt,  has  been  the  counsel  from  this 
stand  from  President  Brigham  Young  down  to  this  very  day,  and  it  is 
just  as  good  and  sound  advice  today  as  it  was  in  the  days  of  President 
Brigham  Young. 

LET  US  FOSTER  THE  RIGHT  KIND  OF  EDUCATION 

Then,  again,  I  think  at  times  that  we  are  too  anxious  that  our  chil- 
dren should  shine  in  educational  matters.  I  am  a  friend  of  education ; 
I  have  always  felt  the  lack  of  schooling,  for  I  never  had  any.  So  I 
am  proud  when  statistics  are  read,  as  they  were  here  the  other  morning 
by  our  President,  showing  the  excellence  of  the  work  of  our  schools 
and  the  large  number  of  children  attending  our  colleges  and  universities. 
But  sometimes  I  think  that  even  as  there  is  reason  in  working,  so  also 
there  is  reason  in  schooling.  We  ought  not  to  go  school-crazy.  When 
a  boy  goes  through  the  eighth  grade  and  then  the  high  school,  then 
three  or  four  years  in  a  university,  and  then  in  a  finishing  off  school,  or 
something  of  that  kind,  the  boy  is  twenty-five  years  old.  There  is  a 
quarter  of  a  century  of  his  life  spent  in  educating  him.  Somebody  else 
has  worked  for  the  food  he  has  eaten,  and  for  the  clothes  that  he  has 
been  supplied  with  for  a  full  quarter  of  a  century,  which  has  been  all 
spent  in  giving  him  education.  He  comes  back  home  and  he  knows  a 
lot ;  bless  your  soul,  he  can  tell  you  pretty  much  about  everything,  but 
he  doesn't  know  how  to  do  scarcely  anything.  (Laughter.)  I  believe 
it  would  be  better  if  our  children  did  not  have  quite  so  much  book 
knowledge,  and  had  a  little  more  practical  knowledge  of  hard  work, 
being  taught  how  to  do  things.  If  they  knew  how  to  make  an  acre 
of  land  produce  double  what  it  has  hitherto  been  producing,  wouldn't 
that  be  something  to  be  proud  of?  I  remember  riding  from  here  to 
Kaysv:lle  a  few  years  ago  with  Brother  John  R.  Barnes,  a  very  splendid 
practical  man,  whom  most  of  vou  will  remember.  .We  were  talking 
about  raising  sugar  beets,  and  I  said,  "Brother  Barnes,  how  is  it  you 
can  afford  to  raise  sugar  beets  on  your  land  here  in  Kaysville,  land 
worth  three  or  four  or  five  hundred  dollars  an  acre,  raising  ten,  eleven, 
or  twelve  fons  of  sugar  beets,"  "Oh,  bless  your  soul,  Brother  Nibley," 
said  he,  "I  could  not  afford  to  farm  that  way.  My  land  has  to  pro- 
duce twenty  and  twenty-five  tons  of  sugar  beets  to  the  acre ;  that  is  the 
way  I  farm."    Now,  if  his  land  could  be  made  so  productive,  can't 


148 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


yours,  if  it  is  cultivated  in  the  same  intelligent  manner?  We  can  increase 
production.  President  Grant  emphasized  the  fact  that  the  producer,  the 
man  who  produces  something,  is  the  man  to  be  looked  up  to,  and  we  take 
our  hats  off  to  him.  The  man  who  merely  makes  his  living  by  specu- 
lating and  never  produces  anything,  is  not  the  kind  of  man,  after  all. 

TEACH  THE  YOUNG  PEOPLE  TO  BE  THRIFTY  AND  SELF-DENYING 

Another  thing — and  I  see  by  the  clock  I  must  hurry — how  many 
children  are  there  who  are  taught  the  habits  of  thrift  and  saving  in 
these  days ;  taught  to  deny  themselves  ?  Why,  they  don't  know  what 
self  denial  is.  They  go  to  picture  shows  four  or  five  or  six  times  a 
week.  Do  they  save  anything?  Do  you  tell  them  :  "You  can  go  to  a 
picture  show  once  a  week,  and-  not  any  oftener"  ?  Why  they  would 
think,  that  is  awful.  "Oh,  you  are  just  persecuting  us."  I  want  to  say 
that  it  would  be  infinitely  better  if  they  could  be  restrained  from  going 
to  excesses  in  amusement.  You  do  not  learn  very  much  at  picture 
shows,  anyhow.  There  are  some  pictures  that  are  educational,  but  most 
of  the  pictures  that  I  have  seen  would  make  the  angels  weep!  (Laughter.) 
They  are  not  worth  looking  at ;  nothing  but  trash.  Then,  your  children 
would  be  better  at  home.  Teach  your  children  to  put  that  money  in 
the  bank  and  deny  themselves  something.  I  want  to  say,  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  in  the  process  of  education,  if  you  put  them  through 
the  eight  grades,  then  through  the  high  school,  and  then  send  them  on 
a  mission  of  two  years  or  more,  you  will  find  the  mission  infinitely 
better,  as  an  education,  than  all  they  will  get  at  any  school ;  unless,  in- 
deed, it  is  some  one  person  here  and  there,  one  in  a  thousand,  who  has 
some  special  faculty  or  aptitude  in  some  given  direction,  who  should  be 
trained.  With  these  exceptions,  I  think  a  mission  is  better  than  excess 
of  school  books — the  missionary  education  is  the  best  in  all  the  world. 

IMPORTANT  ITEMS  FOR  GIRLS  TO  KNOW 

Teach  them  to  be  saving,  to  stick  to  the  land.  Teach  the  girls 
what  girls  should  be  taught.  I  don't  care  how  much  money  we  have, 
the  girls  should  be  taught  how  to  work  and  earn  their  living ;  how  to 
make  a  batch  of  good  bread ;  how  to  make  a  bowl  of  good  soup  :  what  to 
do  with  baby  when  it  has  the  colic.  (Laughter.)  They  don't  know. 
Where  is  there  one  in  a  hundred  who  is  taught  these  things  ?  Oh,  bless 
your  soul;  oh,  no,  not  that,  but  only  book  learning1!  Why,  these 
are  some  of  the  most  important  things  in  the  world  for  a  girl  to  know. 
If  I  were  a  young  fellow  seeking  a  girl  to  marry  I  wouldn't  care  whether 
she  could  tell  me  all  about  these  book  things — •  how  far  it  is,  say,  from 
here  to  the  moon — what  do  I  care  about  that?  What  I  would  want 
to  know  is:  "Can  you  make  good  soup?"  (Laughter.)  "If  you  can't 
you're  not  the  kind  of  a  girl  I  want." 

YOUNG  MEN  AND  WOMEN  SHOULD  MARRY 

Another  thing:    I  think  that  we  should  be  taught  that  our  young 


BISHOP  CHARLES  W.  NlBLEY 


149 


people  should  marry.  This  way  of  putting  marriage  off  until  you  are 
twenty-five  or  thirty  years  of  age,  or  longer,  is  all  wrong.  Young  folks 
claim  that  it  is  because  they  have  not  the  means  to  get  married.  Haven't 
you  any  faith?  Won't  the  Lord  open  up  the  way,  if  you  try  to  keep 
his  commandments  ?  Well,  that  is  one  of  his  commandments.  Why  not 
have  some  faith  and  then  work,  and  get  the  girl  to  consent  and 
share  it  with  you  in  the  work — to  be  a  real  help  meet,  not  altogether  a 
help  eat.  (  Laughter. )  I  once  heard  of  a  young  fellow  who  had  married  a 
girl — she  had  a  fair  education,  but  he  got  tired  of  everlastingly  eating 
baker's  bread.  One  day  he  said :  "L">arie,  I  wish  we  had  some  real 
biscuits  like  my  mother  used  to  make."  She  said :  "You  can  have,  I 
guess.  If  you  will  buy  a  sack  of  flour  I  will  put  it  to  soak  tonight." 
(Laughter.) 

CONCLUDING  ADMONITIONS 

My  time  has  expired.  Stick  to  the  farm.  Render  obedience — 
willing  obedience,  loving  loyalty,  to  the  counsel  of  the  President  of  this 
Church.  Stick  to  the  farm;  stay  with  your  land;  teach  thrift;  teach 
the  principles  of  the  gospel  by  sending  your  sons  and  daughters  on  mis- 
sions when  you  can,  for  it  is  the  best  education  in  all  the  world.  I  bear 
witness  that  this  is  the  work  of  God ;  it  is  not  man's.  I  thought  here 
today  if  we  were  dependent,  this  great  organization,  if  we  were  depend- 
ing, upon  the  wisdom  of  man  to  manage  it,  my  goodness,  what  a  fix 
we  would  be  irl!  The  Lord  God  Almighty  is  at  the  head.  He  it  is 
who  is  managing  and  directing,  and  all  honor  and  glory  and  power  to 
him,  forever  and  ever,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

MODERATION  THE  MARK  OF  A  GENTLEMAN. 

There  is  an  old  saying  that  "Moderation  is  the  mark  of  a  gentle- 
man." I  have  thought  that  with  certain  limitations  that  attribute  might 
consistently  be  applied  to  and  accepted  by  Latter-day  Saints.  It  is  our 
excesses  which  give  us  our  chief  concern  and  trouble.  Moderation 
begets  tolerance,  and  tolerance  lies  at  the  foundation  of  sympathy  and 
charity.  These  qualities  underlie  love,  which  is  the  crowning  attri- 
bute of  both  men  and  God.  I  wish  it  were  possible  for  all  of  us 
to  enjoy  in  moderation  the  splendid  things  which  God  has  given  to  us. 
Nearly  every  good  thing  can  be  carried  to  excess.  Good  practices  oft- 
en become  bad  practice  by  too  frequent  indulgence,  just  as  has  been 
pointed  out  here  this  afternoon. 

We  have  had  most  excellent  counsel,  with  reference  to  the  man- 
ner in  which  we  should  conduct  our  affairs.  We  have  been  admon- 
ished to  be  thrifty,  to  be  saving  and  to  keep  out  of  debt ;  and  yet  I 
do  not  interpret  these  instructions  to  mean  that  we  should  necessarily 


150 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


forego  all  the  comforts  and  the  privileges  which  life  affords.  1  re- 
member one  of  the  last  sermons  delivered  by  our  late  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith.  It  has  always  stayed  with  me.  I  recall  that  he  said  in  sub- 
stance, that  it  was  not  intended  that  the  Latter-day  Sa,ints  should  be 
a  poor  people.  He  said  that  the  righteous  should  inherit  the  earth  and 
that  the  good  things  of  life,  those  which  are  really  worth  having, 
should  come  to  them  who  keep  and  obey  the  commandments  and  the 
laws  of  God. 

WE  SHOULD  LIVE  WITHIN  OUR  MEANS 

I  take  it  that  when  our  President  wisely  counsels  us  against  go- 
ing into  debt  for  the  purchase  of  those  things  which  are  called  lux- 
uries, he  desires  that  we  should  live  within  our  means,  that  we  should 
be  moderate  in  the  comforts  which  we  try  to  secure  for  ourselves  and 
our  families;  and  yet,  I  assume  that  he  does  not  intend  that  we  should 
be  deprived  of  all  the  fine  things  which  have  come  from  invention 
and  from  inspiration  to  man  as  I  verily  believe  it  to  be,  for  the  com- 
fort and  the  convenience  of  mankind.  I  thought  as  he  spoke  of  the 
automobile,  that  he  would  not  advise  us  to  give  up  entirely  this  splen- 
did vehicle  which  serves  such  good  purpose  in  so  many  different  lines 
of  endeavor ;  and  yet  I  gather  that  it  is  prudent  and  wise  for  us  not 
to  indulge  in  the  purchase  of  these  vehicles  to  such  an  extent  that  we 
burden  ourselves  with  obligations  and  put  ourselves  under  bondage, 
against  the  counsel  which  has  been  given  for  years  and  years  to  trie 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  thoroughly  converted  to  the  thought  that 
people  who  operate  automobiles  waste  as  much  as"one  half  of  the  legit- 
imate cost  of  the  operation  of  these  machines.  I  go  about  the  coun- 
try and  I  see  farmers  who  have  bought  cars, — some  expensive  and  some 
less  expensive — operating  them  without  proper  care.  Lack  of  proper 
care  results  in  dreadful  loss,  because  of  the  nature  of  these  vehicles  and 
because  it  costs  so  much  to  keep  and  maintain  them  in  proper  repair. 

I  gather,  too,  that  many  men  might  support  their  families  in  more 
of  luxury  and  comfort  if  they  would  but  use  reasonable  care  for  the 
things  which  they  have  and  the  things  which  they  acquire. 

THRIFT  AND  ECONOMY. 

As  I  understand  it,  therefore,  it  is  not  only  in  self  denial  and  in 
forbearance  to  purchase  the  things  which  we  desire,  that  thrift  and 
economy  consists,  but  in  the  proper  preservation  and  use  of  the  things 
with  which  we  are  blessed ;  and  I  would  urge  upon  my  fellow  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  a  more  careful  and  thoughtful  attention  to  all 
these  various  items  that  go  into  our  economic  life  and  that  feature 
so  largely  in  our  successes  or  in  our  failures. 

THE  PRINCIPLE  OF  CONSECRATION 

It  is  the  excesses  of  the  rich  that  accentuate  the  poverty  of  the 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


151 


poor,  and  if  those  who  are  largely  possessed  of  this  world's  goods 
would  be  more  moderate  in  the  use  of  their  possessions,  they  would  be 
able  to  make  larger  contributions  to  the  alleviation  of  the  suffering 
and  degradation  of  the  poor;  and  I  take  it  that  if  one  of  the  great 
principles  of  our  faith  were  properly  and  adequately  observed,  that  we 
would  have  very  little  difficulty  about  these  excesses.  That  is  the 
principle  of  consecration.  If  we  were  to  consider  all  the  property 
which  the  Lord  has  given  to  us  as  coming  to  us  in  the  form  of  trust 
property  which'  we,  as  stewards,  are  to  use  for  the  advancement  of 
his  work  and  the  establishment  of  his  kingdom,  even  though  all  of 
that  property  is  not  turned  in  to  the  coffers  of  the  Church,  it  would 
surely  be  devoted  to  worthy  purposes.  I  regard  the  obligation  upon 
.the  members  of  the  Church  to  use  everything  which  the  Lord  has  given 
to  them  for  the  advancement  of  the  Lord's  work  as  being  equally  ob- 
ligatory as  the  law  of  tithing  itself ;  for  I  can  not  think  that  a  man  has 
done  his  full  duty  by  the  Church  and  to  the  Lord  when  he  simply  con- 
trihutes  one-tenth  of  his  income  or  his  interest  annually.  I  think  that 
he  ought  to  proceed  upon  the  assumption  that  every  good  thing  which 
God  has  blessed  him  with  is  to  be  used  by  him  under  the  inspiration 
of  God's  Holy  Spirit  for  the  advancement  and  the  establishment  of 
this  work.  And  how  shall  the  work  be  established?  I  say  that  it 
shall  be  established  at  least  in  large  measure  by  every  man  so  build- 
ing up  and  maintaining  the  institution  of  the  home,  that  the  Church 
is  really  made  up  of  an  aggregation  of  the  finest  homes  which  may 
be  found  any  place  over  the  broad  face  of  this  earth ;  and  any  man 
who  does  so  proceed  will  find  great  comfort  and  joy  in  the  use  of  the 
funds  and  the  means  which  God  has  given  to  him,  for  he  will  know 
Jhat  all  these  things  that  come  to  him  have  really  been  returned  to 
God ;  because  there  is  no  way  by  which  they  may  be  returned  to  him 
except  by  using  them  in  the  advancement  and  for  the  welfare  of  his 
children. 

LET  US  USE  AND  ENJOY  ALL  GOOD  THINGS  WITHIN  OUR  MEANS 

Therefore,  my  brethren  and  my  sisters,  I  would  urge  that  we  be 
careful,  that  we  be  moderate,  and  that  we  avoid  the  excesses  which 
have  been  mentioned  in  this  conference. 

I  know  that  it  is  the  disposition  of  the  leaders  of  the  Church  to 
foster  and  cultivate  refinement,  beauty  and  art,  and  all  of  those  good 
things  that  make  life  more  worth  living.  I  do  not  believe  for  a  mo- 
ment that  there  is  any  member  of  the  presiding  councils  of  the  Church 
who  would  have  our  people  return  to  those  days  when  women  were 
deprived  of  the  necessary  conveniences  in  homes.  I  cannot  think  for 
an  instant  that  it  would  be  advantageous  to  dispense  with  the  modern 
systems  of  plumbing  and  sanitation  which  have  rendered  our  homes 
and  communities  far  better  places  in  which  to  live ;  and  I  cannot  think 
that  there  is  any  desire  to  do  away  with  the  proper  things  that  we 


152 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


need  to  carry  on  our  lives  in  a  way  that  is  compatible  with  the  spirit 
of  the  gospel  and  its  teachings. 

All  that  we  need  to  do  to  feel  comfortable  and  to  feel  good  in  our 
hearts  is  to  live  according  to  the  advice  of  the  brethren, — within  our 
means, — to  avoid  excesses,  and  to  let  moderation  and  reason  dictate 
the  course  and  the  policy  of  our  lives. 

God  grant  that  every  man  and  every  woman  may  have  the  in- 
spiration to  which  they  are  entitled  by  good  living  far  the  guidance 
of  their  lives;  .and  that  they  may  know  how  to  act  under  all  circum- 
stances. That  blessing  will  come,  I  believe  as  I  stand  here,  to  everyone 
who  keeps  the  commandments  and  follows  the  counsel  of  the  priesthood 
of  the  Church.  May  his  blessings  attend  us  during  the  season  when  we 
shall  be  confronted  with  temptation,  when  we  shall  be  beset  by  all  the 
various  practices  of  the  world  which  call  for  our  indulgence,  that  we 
may  have  the  power  to  resist,  that  we  may  never  compromise  the 
truth,  but  that  we  may  enjoy  the  goodness  and  the  gifts  of  God,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  asked  that  if  Elder  William  A.  Morton, 
lately  returned  from  a  mission  to  Great  Britain,  was  in  the  congre- 
gation, for  him  to  please  come  to  the  stand.  Elder  Morton  was  in  the 
congregation  at  the  Bureau  of  Information,  heard  the  call,  and  appeared 
before  the  congregation. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  A.  MORTON 

I  heard  the  president  call  me  when  I  was  standing  at  the  Bureau 
of  Information.  As  you  know,  I  have  just  returned  from  another 
mission  to  Great  Britain.  I  would  have  been  perfectly  willing  to  have 
stayed  another  year,  yes,  ten  years,  if  the  authorities  of  the  Church 
had  desired  me  to  do  so ;  but  I  am  very  glad  to  be  back  in  Zion. 

A  man  on  hearing  an  Irishman  boast  of  his  country — before  the 
Home  Rule  bill  was  passed,  said  to  him,  "What  makes  you  think  so 
much  of  Ireland  ?"  The  answer  he  received  was,  "Other  lands."  What 
makes  me  think  so  much  of  this  land?  Other  lands.  What  makes  me 
think  so  much  of  this  people?  Other  people.  What  makes  me 
think  so  much  of  my  religion?  Other  religions.  Sister  Morton  and 
I  have  been  in  other  lands,  among  other  people,  and  we  have  come 
back  with  a  far  greater  love  in  our  hearts  for  Zion  and  her  people  than 
we  ever  had  before. 

I  remember  reading  in  the  JDoctrine  and  Covenants  what  the 
Lord  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  lying  spirits  had  gone 
abroad  in  the  earth.  A  large  number  of  them  have  taken  up  their 
residence  in  the  Old  Country.  A  minister  who  returned  some  time 
ago  from  a  visit  to  the  United  States,  delivered  in  his  church  an  illus- 


ELDER  WILLIAM  A.  MORTON 


153 


trated  lecture  of  his  trip,  and  what  do  you  think  he  told  the  people? 
That  when  he  was  in  Salt  Lake  City  he  was  given  a  banquet  at  which 
he  sat  beside  the  mayor,  who  was  the  husband  of  three  wives.  ( Laugh- 
ter.) And  the  audience  believed  him!  (Laughter.)  That  was  pub- 
lished in  a  daily  paper.  I  immediately  wrote  the  editor,  asking  him  if 
the  minister  had  been  reported  correctly.  He  answered  that  he  had, 
and  I  then  denounced  the  statement  as  a  malicious  falsehood.  I  told 
the  readers  of  the  paper  that  I  knew  the  mayor  of  Salt  Lake  City; 
that  he  was  at  one  time  a  member  of  my  Sunday  school  class ;  that  he 
is  not  and  never  was  a  polygamist.  Then  the  minister  had  to  tell 
another  lie,  in  order  to  prop  the  first  one  up,  for,  as  you  know,  a  lie 
cannot  stand  alone.  He  said  he  did  not  refer  to  the  present  mayor, 
but  to  a  former  mayor.  I  wrote  the  editor  of  the  paper,  telling  him 
that  there  has  not  been  a  polygamist  mayor  in  Salt  Lake  City  for  thirty- 
eight  years.    Think  of  a  Methodist  minister  telling  such  falsehoods ! 

Another  minister,  a  minister  of  the  English  Church,  told  the 
people  of  England  that  when  "Mormons"  get  tired  of  their  old  wives, 
they  take  them  into  the  desert,  leave  them  beside  a,  spring,  and  bring 
them  provisions  from  time  to  time.  (Laughter).  He  said  that  he  him- 
self had  rescued  quite  a  number  of  young  women  from  the  clutches  of 
"Mormons."  Think  of  that  out  of  the  mouth  of  a  consecrated  min- 
ister of  the  Church  of  England!  And  thousands  believed  him.  Why? 
Because  they  would  rather  believe  a  lie  than  the  truth. 

My  time  is  up.  I  thank  God  with  all  my  heart  and  soul  for  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  which  I  embraced  in  my  native  land  thirty-five 
years  ago.  I  love  this  work,  I  love  this  people ;  I  would  rather  live 
here  on  bread  and  water  all  the  days  of  my  life,  than  to  live  in  the  pal- 
ace of  the  king.  I  pray  God  to  help  us  to  be  grateful  and  thankful  and 
to  appreciate  his  blessings,  because  I  know  that  if  we  are  faithful  in 
keeping  his  commandments  his  blessings  will  continue  to  flow  unto 
us.    God  bless  you  all,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

Today  is  Sunday ;  the  hour  is  3  :45  p.  m.  I  am,  reminded  that 
at  this  very  hour,  Sunday,  April  7,  1918,  one  day  more  than  five  years 
ago,  I  was  presented  to  the  General  Conference,  by  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  as  the  new  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

THE  VALUE  OF  PERSECUTION 

It  hardly  seems  possible  that  in  these  days,  when  information  as 
to  the  world  is  so  generally  published,  and  when  practically  all  the 
people,  in  all  the  countries  of  the  world  are  able  to  read  this  information, 
the  people  of  one  of  our  great  civilized  countries  can  be  induced  to 
accept  as  true  the  intensely  false  statements  to  which  Elder  William 
A.  Morton  in  his  remarks  has  just  referred.    Is  it  not  necessary  for 


154  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

I 

such  assertions  and  statements  to  be  made  in  order  to  fulfil  the  pre- 
dictions which  are  so  clearly  and  numerously  made  in  the  holy  scrip- 
tures ?  For  example :  "And  ye  shall  be  hated  of  all  men  for  my  name's 
sake:  but  he  that  endureth  to  the  end  shall  be  saved."  (Matthew  10:22.) 
"Yea,  and  all  that  will  live  godly  in  Christ  Jesus  shall  suffer  persecu- 
tion." (II  Timothy  3  :12.)  "Blessed  are  they  which  are  persecuted  for 
righteousness'  sake;  for  theirs  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  Blessed  are 
ye,  when  men  shall  revile  you,  and  persecute  you,  and  shall  say  all 
manner  of  evil  against  you  falsely,  for  my  sake.  Rejoice,  and  be  ex- 
ceeding glad  :  for  great  is  your  reward  in  heaven :  for  so  persecuted  they 
the  prophets  which  were  before  you."  (Matthew  5  :10-12.)  "Woe  unto 
you,  when  all  men  shall  speak  well  of  you !  for  so  did  their  fathers 
to  the  false  prophets."  (Luke  6:26.)  The  great  Master  himself,  said: 
"If  the  world  hate  you,  ye  know  that  it  hated  me  before  it  hated  you. 
If  ye  be  of  the  world,  the  world  would  love  his  own ;  but  because  ye  are 
not  of  the  world,  but  I  have  chosen  you  out  of  the  world,  therefore  the 
world  hateth  you."  (John  15  :18,  19.) 

THE  WELFARE  AND  TRAINING  OF  OUR  YOUNG  PEOPLE 

I  shall  attempt  to  place  additional  emphasis  upon  two  subjects  that 
have  been  discussed  by  many  of  the  speakers  during  this  conference. 
One  is  the  arousing'  of  additional  interest  in  the  training  and  welfare 
of  the  young  people  of  the  Church.  The  other  is  the  importance  of 
having  Latter-day  Saints  remain  in  this  section  of  the  country  and  of 
rearing  their  families  generally  on  the  farm. 

Marvelous  transformations  have  taken  place  since  that  memorable 
day  in  July,  1847,  when  Brigham  Young  and  his  band  of  noble  pio- 
neers looked  over  the  mountain  tops  into  this  great  valley,  arid  said : 
"This  is  the  place."  The  great  pioneer  leader  looked  with  the  vision 
of  a  prophet.  He  spoke  the  truth.  "This  is  the  place."  Not  the  place 
for  making  the  most  money,  perhaps,  not  the  place  in  which  the  great- 
est amount  of  luxury  can  be  found ;  but  it  is  the  chosen  place  for  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  It  is  the  place  where  struggles  must  be  met — those 
struggles  which  make  men  and  women.  It  is  not  gold  or  silver,  nor 
is  it  what  these  can  purchase,  that  is  most  desired  by  Latter-day  Saints. 
What  we  want  is  sons  and  daughters  strong  in  the  power  to  resist; 
sons  and  daughters  with  high  ideals  and  exalted  ambition,  for  these 
'give  joy  and  satisfaction  which  no  amount  of  money  can  purchase. 
It  is  in  these  young  people — our  most  valuable  asset — we  are  most 
interested. 

AN  ILLUSTRATION  FROM  BABSON 

Is  not  Roger  W.  Babson  our  greatest  statistician?  It  is  he  who 
says  he  was  visiting  the  home  of  a  famous  manufacturer,  who  took  him 
out  to  his  farm  and  showed  him  his  cattle.  Above  the  head  of  each 
heifer  and  cow  was  the  pedigree.  The  most  careful  record  was  kept 
of  every  animal.  He  had  a  blue  print  in  his  library  at  home  of  every 
one  of  these  animals.   Later  in  the  evening — it  was  during  the  Christmas 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


155 


vacation — a  young  fellow  drove  up  to  the  house  in  a  fancy  automobile, 
and  he  came  in  and  asked  for  the  manufacturer's  daughter,  in  order 
to  take  her  to  a  party.  Not  liking  the  looks  of  the  fellow  ver.y  well, 
after  the  couple  had  gone  out,  Mr.  Babson  said:  'Who  is  that  chap?" 
The  father  replied :  "Oh,  I  don't  know,  just  some  friend  of  Mary's." 
Mr.  Babson  says  this  father  had  every  one  of  his  cows  blue-printed, 
but  he  didn't  even  know  the  name  of  the  man  who  came  to  get  his  only 
daughter,  and  who  did  not  deliver  her  until  two  o'clock  the  next  morn- 
ing. That  man  was  neglecting  the  welfare  of  the  human  soul — the 
world's  greatest  asset. 

As  I  have  said  before,  this  may  not  be  the  place  to  find  the  greatest 
amount  of  money,  or  the  greatest  quality  of  luxury  ;  but  it  is  "the  place" 
designated  by  divine  Providence  for  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  it  is 
the  place  where,  with  divine  help  and  guidance,  we  are  struggling  to 
produce  the  best  men  and  the  best  women  that  can  be  produced  in  any 
Ipart  of  the  world.  I  believe  "this  is  the  place"  for  accomplishing 
this  great  end. 

THE  VALUE  OF  THE  MISSION  FIELD  AS  AN  EDUCATOR 

Intensely  interested  as  we  are  in  developing  to  the  highest  degree  the 
virtues  of  our  young  men  and  young  women  and  also  their  talents, 
may  I  add  a  little  emphasis  on  what  Bishop  Nibley  has  already  said, 
and  also  Elder  Stephen  L.  Richards,  that  I  regard  the  experience  in 
the  mission  field  as  a  great  educational  asset  to  any  young  man.  While 
my  lifetime  has  been  spent  almost  entirely  in  the  school  room,  either  as 
student  or  teacher,  I  am  of  the  opinion  that  for  the  average  young  man 
time  spent  in  the  mission  field  is,  even  for  him,  more  valuable  than 
an  equal  amount  of  time  spent  in  the  school  room.  Character  certainly 
is  worth  more  than  education  without  it.  Young  missionaries  who  go 
into  the  mission  field  make  an  intense  study  of  the  life  and  example  of 
Jesus  Christ.  I  ask  all  good  people  everywhere  if  the  amount  of  time 
ordinarily  spent  in  the  mission  field  could  be  devoted  to  any  more 
worthy  or  helpful  work.  If  you  have  to  choose  between  sending  your 
children  to  school  for  higher  education,  or  sending  them  into  the  mis- 
sion field,  I  say,  choose  the  latter. 

THE  M.  I.  A.  GIVE  SUPPORT  TO  THIS  HELPFUL  ORGANIZATION 

Since  I  happen  to  be  one  of  the  general  superintendency  of  the 
Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association,  I  am  naturally  in- 
tensely interested  in  the  welfare  of  the  young  people,  and  especially  the 
young  men.  I  appeal  for  you  to  give  the  Mutual  Improvement  work 
your  earnest,  honest  support.  Your  boys  are  calling  for  you.  They 
need  your  help.  "Of  all  sad  words  of  tongue  or  pen,  the  saddest  are 
these:  It  might  have  been."  What  greater  anguish  can  come  into 
the  human  heart  than  that  which  results  from  regret?  Be  close  to  your 
son.  Put  your  arms  around  him.  Enjoy  his  affection  and  enjoy  his 
confidence.    It  is  this  sort  of  spirit  we  are  encouraging  in  the  Mutual 


156 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Improvement  organizations.  "Train  up  a  child  in  the  way  he  should 
go:  and  when  he  is  old,  he  will  not  depart  from  it." 

the  "m"  men 

At  Richfield  a  few  weeks  ago  my  heart  was  filled  with  pride  at 
seeing  our  "M"  men,  a  portion  of  the  Mutual  Improvement  Association, 
,give  the  Sunday  evening  program,  for  the  M.  I.  A.  meeting.  Every 
detail  was  arranged  by  these  young  men.  Thus  we  are  aiming  to  give 
at  home  a  training  similar  to  that  received  in  the  mission  field.  That 
is,  we  are  aiming  to  give  that  training  that  takes  a  young,  laughing,  silly 
boy,  and  makes  of  him,  as  the  mission  almost  always  does,  a  fine,  dig- 
nified, glorious  man. 

THE  FATHERS  AND  SONS'  AND  SCOUT  ACTIVITIES 

Scout  work  is  a  portion  of  the  Mutual  Improvement  program.  We 
desire  to  make  our  stake  and  ward  officials  give  to  this  portion  of  the 
program  the  same  good  support  they  do  to  other  portions  of  our  work, 
in  this  city,  during  the  last  two  weeks,  I  have  attended  three  banquets 
given  by  the  scouts  and  their  fathers.  This  intimate  association  of 
fathers  and  sons  cannot  do  otherwise  than  result  in  doing  great  good. 
What  can  give  greater  uplift  than  to  have  boys  in  the  most  critical 
moments  of  their  lives  intimately  associated  with,  and  positively  guided 
by,  their  fathers  and  their  mothers  ? 

The  subject  assigned  to  one  of  these  scouts,  and  put  in  the  lan- 
'guage  of  the  modern  boy,  was:  "My  Dad — My  Pal."  It  was  thrill- 
ing to  see  that  bright-eyed  little  chap  with  head  erect,  his  hand  on  his 
father's  shoulder,  tell  the  great  group  of  fathers  and  sons  assembled 
that  he  and  his  dad  were  chums.  When  at  the  close  of  the  banquet 
contributions  were  solicited  for  buying  a  truck  for  the  scout  troop, 
some  men  gave  one  dollar,  a  few  gave  five.  This  little  fellow  came 
forward  and  put  down  a  check  and  said :  "My  dad  gives  twenty-five 
dollars." 

MOTHER,   THE  BEST  SCOUT   OF  ALL 

A  fine  looking,  dark-haired  Scandinavian  mother  was  sitting  at 
another  table,  and  by  her  side  her  little  son.  This  boy  was  asked  to 
respond  to  the  toast:  "Mother,  the  best  scout  of  all."  You  ought  to 
have  heard  his  story.  The  little  fellow,  somewhat  frail  in  body,  was 
as  light  in  complexion  as  his  mother  was  dark.  With  quivering  lips 
he  said:  "During  all  the  days  of  my  boyhood  my  mother  has  taught 
me  to.  pray.  Sometime  ago  I  went  down  to  Utah  Lake  with  a  group 
of  my  companions  on  a  swimming  trip.  We  were  carrying  on  one 
contest  after  another.  I  found  myself  actually  exhausted,  when  I 
saw  one  of  my  little  friends  and  companions  in  deep  water,  drowning." 
There  were  many  strong  men  with  strong  hearts  in  that  audience.  All 
listened  in  breathless  silence  to  the  simple  narrative  of  this  little  scout. 
The  hearers  could  not  hold  back  the  tears,  when  the  little  fellow  said : 
"And,  remembering  the  teachings  of  my  mother,  that,  under  all  con- 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


157 


ditions,  I  should  place  my  trust  in  divine  Providence,  I  uttered  a 
prayer,  placed  my  trust  in  Him,  then  went  forward  and  saved  the  life 
of  my  little  friend."  That  is  the  spirit  of  the  scouts.  Scouting  is  a 
portion  of  our  M.  I.  A.  program. 

HIGH  IDEALS  IN  TWO  SLOGANS 

In  the  L.  D.  S.  Church  we  have  every  doctrine,  every  principle, 
every  practice,  every  element,  that  tends  to  make  men  and  women 
better,  happier,  stronger,  cleaner.  In  the  language  of  the  Boy  Scouts, 
we  are  struggling  to  do  our  duty  to  God  and  to  our  country.  We  are 
struggling  to  make  good  citizens,  for  only  out  of  good  citizens  can 
good  Latter-day  Saints  be  made.  We  are  striving  to  make  better  men 
and  women  than  are  made  or  can  be  made  elsewhere.  We  expect 
to  accomplish  this  greatly  desired  end  by  living  more  strictly  in  con- 
formity with  the  teachings  and  example  of  Jesus  Christ,  than  do  others. 
Our  slogans  are  an  indication  of  our  standards.  One  of  these  is : 
"We  stand  for  the  non-sale  and  non-use  of  tobacco."  This  year's 
slogan  is  :  "We  stand  for  a  pure  life  through  clean  thought  and  action." 
With  these  high  ideals  we  are  going  forward  with  faith  in  divine  Provi- 
dence, expecting  to  produce  a  generation  of  people  better  than  any 
the  world  has  known. 

The  Lord  bless  you.  Be  interested  in  the  boy.  Give  him  a  fair 
share  of  your  time.  Give  him  your  confidence.  Do  not  be  satisfied 
until  in  your  ward  there  is  an  efficient  troop  of  Boy  Scouts  in  which 
your  son  can  be  trained.  Give  splendid  support  to  this  portion  of  our 
Mutual  Improvement  work.  You  cannot  know  what  real  scouting 
is  until  you  have  at  least  one  Eagle  Scout  in  your  troop.  The  Lord  bless 
you.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

While  listening  to  Bishop  Nibley  I  thought  of  some  quotations 
from  a  book,  a  copy  of  which  was  sent  by  the  Presidency  to  the  1775 
misionaries  of  our  Church,  .in  all  the  world.  This  book  is  entitled 
Fundamentals  of  Prosperity,  and  the  author  is  Roger  W.  Babson.  I 
brought  it  here  to  hand  to  a  friend  after  the  meeting,  and  not  for 
the  purpose  of  reading  from  it,  but  some  of  the  things  that  have  been 
said  this  afternoon  have  caused  me  to  turn  to  the  book,  and  I  desire 
to  read  some  things  from  it,  and  to  make  a  few  comments : 

"The  need  of  the  hour  is  not  more  legislation.  The  need  of  the  hour 
is  more  religion.  More  religion  is  needed  everywhere,  fro-m  the  halls  of 
Congress  at  Washington,  to  the  factories,^  the  mines,  the  fields  and  the 
forests.  It  is  one  thing  to  talk  about  plans  or  policies,  but  a  plan  or  policy 
without  a  religious  motive  is  like  a  watch  without  a  spring  or  a  body  with- 
out the  breath  of  life." 

"Why  is  it  that  most  of  the  able  men  in  our  great  industries  came 
from  the  country  districts?  The  reason  is  that  the  country  boy  is  trained 
to  work.  Statistics  indicate  that  very  seldom  does  a  child,  brought  up  in  a 
city  apartment  house,  amount  to  much;  while  the  children  of  well-to-do 


158 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


city  people  are  seriously  handicapped.  The  great  educator  of  the  previous 
generation  was  not  the  public  school,  but  rather  the  wood  box." 

There  is  hardly  an  individual  in  all  the  Church  who  has  not  some 
responsibilities.  We  have  ward  teachers,  two  of  them  for  every  block 
in  all  the  Church.  In  addition,  we  have  two  Relief  Society '  teachers 
for  each  block.  There  are  a  bishop  and  two  counselors  in  every  ward. 
There  are  from  fifteen  to  twenty  high  counselors  in  every  stake.  Re- 
sponsibility develops  people.  I  want  to  read  just  a  word  on  respon- 
sibility, from  Mr.  Babson's  book  : 

My  little  girl  has  a  black  cat;  about  once  in  four  months  this  cat  has 
kittens.  Opposite  our  place  is  a  man  who  has  an  Airdale  dog.  When  that 
dog  comes  across  the  street  and  that  cat  has  no  kittens,  the  cat  immediate- 
ly "beats  it"  as  fast  as  she  can,  with  the  dog  after  her.  But  when  that 
dog  comes  across  the  street  and  that  cat  has  the  responsibility  of  some  kit- 
tens, she  immediately  turns  on  the  dog  and  the  dog  "beats  it"  with  the  cat 
after  him.  It  is  the  same  dog,  the  same  cat,  and  the  same  back  yard; 
but  in  one  instance  the  cat  has  no  responsibilities  and  in  the  other  case  she 
has.  Responsibilities  develop  faith,  vision,  courage,  initiative,  and  other 
things  which  make  the  world  go  round. 

I  will  read  a  comparison  between  the  people  who  settled  North  and 
South  America: 

Just  before  T  went  to  Brazil  I  was_the  guest  of  the  President  of  the 
Argentine  Republic.  After  lunching  one  day  we  sat  in  his  sun  parlor  look- 
ing out  over  the  river.  Fie  was  very  thoughtful.  He  said,  "Mr.  Babson,  I 
have  been  wondering  why  it  is  that  South  America  with  all  its  natural 
advantages  is  so  far  behind  North  America  notwithstanding  that  South 
America  was  settled  before  North  America."  Then  he  went  on  to  tell  how 
the  forests  of  South  America  had  two  hundred  and  eighty-six  trees  that 
can  be  found  in  no  book  of  botany.  He  told  me  about  many  ranches  that 
had  thousands  of  acres  under  alfalfa  in  one  block.  He  mentioned  the  mines 
of  iron,  coal,  qopper,  silver,  gold;  all  those  great  rivers  and  waterpowers 
which  rival  Niagara.  "Why  is  it  with  all  these  natural  resources,  South 
America  is  so  far  behind  North  America?"  he  asked.  Well,  those  of  you 
who  have  been  there  know  the  reason.  But,  being  a  guest,  I  said: 

"Mr.  President,  what  do  you  think  is  the  reason?" 

He  replied:  "I  have  come  to  this  conclusion.  South  America  was  set- 
tled by  the  Spanish  who  came  to  South  America  in  search  of  gold,  but 
North  America  was  settled  by  the  Pilgrim  Fathers  who  went  there  in 
search  of  God. 

Friends,  let  us  as  American  citizens  never  kick  down  the  ladder  by 
which  we  climbed  up.  Let  us  never  forget  the  foundation  upon  which  all 
permanent  prosperity  is  based. 

That  foundation  is  religion,  faith  in  God  and  determination  to 
serve  God.  Our  fathers  came  here  for  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  and  for  nothing  else. 

Again,  I  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  that  we  can  rear  better 
citizens  and  better  Latter-day  Saints  upon  the  farms  than  in  any  other 
place.  Mr.  Babson  goes  on  to  say  that  over  thirty  per  cent  of  all  the 
great  men  in  the  industries  today  have  come  from  the  farms,  or  are  sons 
of  poor  preachers.  <         :        ' '   1 '  i 

May  the  Lord  bless  the  people  of  Zion.    May  we  keep  his  com- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


159 


mandments  in  a  way  and  manner  that  all  men,  seeing  our  good  deeds, 
our  honesty,  our  integrity,  may  be  led  at  least  to  respect  us,  whether 
they  believe  in  our  faith  or  not.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "Then  shall  your  light  shine,"  and  the  congre- 
gation sang  the  "Doxology." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Peter  G.  Johnston,  of 
the  general  auditing  committee. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

Professor  Anthon  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing  in  the  Taber- 
nacle; Professor  J.  J.  McClellan  played  the  accompaniments,  interludes, 
etc.,  on  the  great  organ,  assisted  by  Edward  P.  Kimball  and  Tracy 
Y.  Cannon. 

Stenographic  reports  of  the  discourses  were  made  in  the  Taber- 
nacle by  Franklin  W.  Otterstrom,  assisted  by  Joseph  Anderson ;  and 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  by  Clyde  Rasmussen. 

Edward  H.  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


index 


ADAMSON,  ELDER  WILLIAM  L     37 

AUSTIN,  ELDER  HEBER  C.  . .  ■  •    •  •   34 

AUTHORITIES  PRESENT  •■   1 

AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH,  GENERAL   144 

BALLARD,  ELDER  MELVIN  J.  . . . :  •  •   55 


A  Testing  Time,  56 — The  Religion  that  is  Worth  Having,  56 — 
The  Margins  that  Count,  57 — The  Word  of  Wisdom,  57 — Ministra- 
tion to  the  Sick,  58 — 'Payment  of  Tithing,  <5® — Fast  Offerings  and 


Fasting,  59 — Marriage  and  Divorce,  60. 

BENNION,  ELDER  OWEN    79 

BENNION,  ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  . .  ■  •   105 

CALLIS,  ELDER  CHARLES  A   21 

CARDON,  ELDER  JOSEPH  E     50 

CLAWSON,  PRESIDENT  RUDGER    65 


The  Principle  (of  Revelation  Vital,  65 — The  Case  of  Abraham,  66 — 
The  Lord  Advises  Isaac,  67 — The  Lord  Spoke  to  Jacob  in  a  Dream, 
67 — The  voice  of  Revelation  to  Moses,  67 — The  Prophets,  Seers, 
and  Revelators  of  Old,  67— The  Church  of  Christ  Built  Upon  Revela- 
tion, 68 — No  Greater  Communication  than  Found  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  69 — Power  and  Authority  of  the  Living  Oracles  of 


God,  69. 

CROFT,  ELDER  EDWARD  W  ••   32 

DUCKWORTH,  ELDER  JAMES      36 

EVANS,  ELDER  ABEL,  J     11 

FUNK,  ELDER  JAMES  W  ••   20 

GRANT,  PRESIDENT  HEBER  J     2 


Dedication  of  the  Salt  Lake  Temple  Thirty  Years  Ago,  2 — Temple 
Cornerstone  Laid  Seventy  Years  Ago,2 — Great  Progress  ,of  the 
Church,  2 — General  Statistical  Information,  3 — Statistical  Report 
Compiled  from  the  Records  of  the  Year,  1922,  4 — Clean  Up  Towns 
and  Villages,  5 — Temples  and  Meetinghouses,  5 — The  Primary  Con- 
valescent Home,  5 — Training-  of  Aaronic  Priesthood,  5 — Tithes  Re- 
turned to  the  Stakes,  6 — Remarkable  Increase  in  Temple  Work,  6 — 
The  Beet  Industry  and  the  Church,  6 — People  Advised  to  Stay  on 
the  Farm,  7 — Thrift,  Economy  and  Hard  Times,  8 — An  Appeal  to 
Support  Home  Industry,  9 — New  Mission  Presidents  and  Releases, 10. 


GRANT,  PRESIDENT  HEBER  J     23 

Testimony  that  Jesus  is  the  Son  of  God,  23. 

GRANT,  PRESIDENT  HEBER  J   93 

GRANT,  PRESIDENT  HEBER  J     95 

GRANT,  PRESIDENT  HEBER  J  •  •   144 

Presentation  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  and  of  the 
General  Officers'  of  the  Church,  144. 

GRANT,  PRESIDENT  HEBER  J   157 

HANSON,  ELDER  PETER  M     16 

HART,  ELDER  CHARLES  H   130 

HINCKLEY,  ELDER  ALONZO  A  •  • . . .  71 

HORSLEY,  ELDER  ARTHUR  W     52 

IVINS,  PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W   85 


Meaning  of  Christ's  Answer  to  the  Pharisees,  86 — Nature  of  Civil 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


161 


and  Religious  Laws,  86 — Proper  Relationship  Between  the  Church 
and  the  State,  87— Illustrations  of  Conflicts  Between  the  Church  and 
the  State,  87 — Conflict  the  Result  of  Ignorance  of  Law,  88 — The 
Lord  has  Spoken  Plainly  on  Spiritual  and  Temporal  Affairs,  88 — 
His  Word  Upon  this  Important  Question,  88— Can  a  Better  Bill 
of  Rights  be  Found?,  89 — Contrast  Between  Civil  and  Religious 
Laws,  90 — Where  Civil  and  Religious  Powers  Differ  Entirely,  90 — 
The  System  of  Church  Courts,  91 — The  Civil  Law,  Compulsory, 
the  Church  Law  Voluntary,  92 — Summary  and  Application,  92. 


JACK,  ELDER  WILLIAM  T.    60 

JENSON,  ELDER  ANDREW   145 

KIMBALL,  ELDER  J.  GOLDEN   •  •   125 

KNIGHT,  ELDER  JOHN  M.    80 

LANGLOIS,  ELDER  DAVID  R   .-43 

LEE,  ELDER  S.  NORMAN .  .  •  ■   40 

LYMAN,  ELDER  RICHARD  R   153 


The  Value  of  Persecution,  153 — The  Welfare  and  Training  of  our 
Young  People,  154 — An  Illustration  from  Babson.  154 — The  Value 
of  the  Mission  Field  as  an  Educator,  155 — The  M,  I.  A. — Give  Sup- 
port to  this  Helpful  Organization,  155 — The  "M"  Men,  156— The 
Fathers  and  Sons'  and  Scout  Activities,  156 — Mother,  the  Best  Scout 
of  All,  156— High  Ideals  in  Two  Slogans,  157. 


McGregor,  elder  joseph  f   17 

mcmurrin,  elder  joseph  w     82 

mendenhall,  elder  william  h   49 

miller,  elder  uriah  g  ■  •   70 

morton,  elder  william  a   152 

nibley,  elder  charles  w.  . .  •  •   146 


The  Church  is  Out  of  Debt,  146— Stay  with  the  Farm,  146 — Let  us 
Foster  the  Right  Kind  of  Education,  147 — Teach  the  Young  People 
to  be  Thrifty  and  Self-Denying,  148 — Important  Items  for  Girls  to 
Know,  148 — Young  Men  and  Women  Should  Marry,  148 — Con- 
cluding Admonitions,  149. 

OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH,  GENERAL    144 

PENROSE,  PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W  •  ■   24 

Through  the  Spirit  We  are  Fed  the  Bread  of  Life,  24 — The  Church 
the  Most  Wonderful  Organization,  25 — What  God  Reveals,  Or- 
dains and  Commands  is  His  Religion,  25 — God  has  Spoken  in  the 
Time  in  which  We  Live.  26 — Celestial  or  Eternal  Marriage,  26— 
Show  the  Children  what  the  Lord  Ordains  and  Why,  27 — Learn 
What  the  Lord  has  Commanded  and  Obey  It,  28 — The  Lord  has  Set 
up  His  Church  and  Kingdom,  28 — Only  One  God's  Religion,  30' — 
The    Lord's    Plan    for    the    Government    of    His    Church,    30 — ■ 


Personal    Testimony,    31 — The    Speaker's    Benediction   Upon  the 
People,  32. 

PRATT,  ELDER  REY  L   38 

QUINNEY,  ELDER  JOSEPH,  JR   109 

RICHARDS,  ELDER  GEORGE  F   99 

The  Latter-day  Saints  arc  Well  Taught,  99— By  Works  and  Not 
Faith  Only  are  We  Justified,  99 — Too  Much  Dead  Faith  in  the 
Church,  100 — Need  of  Doing  the  Things  we  Know,  101. 

RICHARDS,  ELDER  STEPHEN  L   149 

Moderation  the  Mark  of  a  Gentleman,  149 — We  Should  Live  Within 
Our  Means,  150, — Thrift  and  Economy,  150 — The  Principle  of  Con- 
secration, 150 — Let  Us  Use  and  Enjoy  All  Good  Things  Within  Our 
Means,  151. 

ROBERTS,  ELDER  B.  H  •  •   63 

SMITH,  ELDER  WINSLOW  FARR    12 


162 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


SMITH,  ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT   74 

Men  Seeking  Everything  but  the  Word  of  God,  74 — Faith  the  Mov- 
ing Cause  of  Action,  75 — Illustrations  of  the  Power  of  Faith,  75 — 
Results  of  the  Faith  of  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  76 — Our  Duty 
Because  of  Our  Faith,  77— The  Path  of  Humility,  the  Path  of  Safety, 


78— Admonition.  78. 

SMITH,  ELDER  HYRUM  G   96 

SMITH,  ELDER  DAVID  A   117 

SMITH,  ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING      135 


The  Worlds  are  a  Means  to  an  End,  not  the  End  Itself,  135 — Man 
the  Most  Important  of  God's  Creations,  136 — God's  Love  for  Man- 
■  kind,  136 — Man  Must  be  Redeemed  According  to  Law,  137 — 
The  Wbrth  of  Souls  Great  in  the  Sight  of  God,  137 — The  Gospel 
Plan  Not  Easy  for  the  Wayward,  138 — Our  Duty  to  Labor  for  the 
Salvation  of  Man,  138 — Denying  Christ  a  Fearful  Responsibility, 
138— Men  Should  T'ach  What  They  Understand,  139— The  Best  is 
the  Fulness  of  the  Father's  Kingdom,  139. 

SMOOT,  ELDER  REED   ••   145 

TALMAGE,  ELDER  JAMES  E   140 

The  Children  of  Israel,  Worshipers  of  Jehovah,  140 — The  Idols 
that  Men  Worship,  140 — Israel  a  Sabbath-Observing  People,  141 — 
Tithe-Paying  Another  Characteristic  of  Israel,  141 — The  Law  of 
Sacrifice  Contrasted.  142 — The  Present  a  Day  of  Gathering,  142 — 
The  Gospel  of  Christ  Restored  in  this  Day,  142 — The  Chosen  People 
of  God  Must  Observe  His  Sabbaths,  143— Tithing  a  Sign  of  the 


Great  Brotherhood  of  God,  143. 

TAYLOR,  ELDER  JOHN  H     Ill 

WELKER,  ELDER  ROY  A  •  •   14 

WELLS,  ELDER  JOHN    120 

WHITNEY,  ELDER  ORSON  F     145 

WIDTSOE,  ELDER  JOHN  A   45 


Happy  in  the  Knowledge  of  the  Gospel,  45 — The  "Mormon"  In- 
stitution Works,  45 — A  Survey  of  Our  Educational  Conditions,  46 — 
Causes  of  the  Vitality  of  "Mormonism",  47 — Some  Great  Practices 
and  Principles.  48 — A  Great  Rebuke  of  Doubt,  48. 


WOOD,  ELDER  EDWARD  J   93 

WRIGHT,  ELDER  ANGUS  T   113 

YOUNG,  ELDER  BRIGHAM  S  •  •   102 

YOUNG,  ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR    128 

YOUNG,  ELDER  SEYMOUR  B     133 


DESERET  BOOK 
COMPANY 

44  East  So.  Temple  St. 


We  can  supply  you  with 

BOOKS 

For  all  Departments  of  Sunday  School  Work. 

Young  Men  and  Young  Ladies'  M.  I.  Associa- 
tions, including  Manuals  and  the  New  Read- 
ing Course. 

Text  Books  for  the  Aaronic  and  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  Quorums'  study. 

Church  School,  Seminary  and  Religion  Class 
Text  Books  and  Books  of  Reference. 

Primary  Association;  Stories  to  tell  Children, 
Short  Stories,  Dialogues,  Recitations,  Speak- 
ers and  Music  Books. 

Books  for  every  day  in  the  year,  especially  for 
Summer  reading — Immense  Lines,  new  and 
attractive. 


SEND  FOR  OUR  NEW  CATALOGUE  FREE 


ESSENTIALS  IN  CHURCH  HISTORY 

BY  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  and  Church  Historian 
A  History  of  the  Church  from  the  birth  of  the  Prophet  to  the 
present  time,  in  ONE  LARGE  VOLUME,  of  700  pages,  suitably 
illustrated  with  portraits  of  the  leaders,  early  scenes  and  docu- 
ments of  historical  value,  and  original  maps,  showing  the  travels 
of  the  Church  from  its  organization  to  its  establishment  in  the 
mountains;  also  the  route  of  the  famous  Mormon  Battalion  to  the 
Pacific  Coast. 

This  book  is  adopted  as  a  text  for  the  study  of  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  and  for  the  Priests  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  for  the 
year  1923. 

It  is  well  printed  and  handsomely  bound,  and  will  be  sold  at 

the  special  low  price,  in  cloth..  $1.50 

Three-Fourths  Leather   2.50 

"A  Guide  to  the  study  of  Essentials  in  Church  History"  con- 
taining lessons  for  the  entire  volume  and  arranged  for  a  two 
years'  course,  each  15c,  Doz.  $1.50 

SATURDAY  NIGHT  THOUGHTS 

A  Series  of  Dissertations  on  Spiritual,  Historical  and  Philosophical  Themes. 
BY  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 
The  book  is  designated  for  use  in  L.  D.  S.  schools  and  sem- 
inaries, but  as  the  Themes  in  this  work  are  calculated  to  stim- 
ulate study  and  deep  reflection  of  Gospel  truths,  it  will  be  prized 
by  the  thoughtful  reader  everywhere.    Handsomely  bound  in 
cloth,  $1.00. 

Prophecies  of  Joseph  Smith  and  Their  Fulfillment 

BY  NEPHI  LOWELL  MORRIS 

Was  Joseph  Smith  a  Prophet?  What  answers  come  from  the 
century  that  has  rolled  by  since  he  beheld  his  first  vision?  Have 
the  Latter-day  Saints  misplaced  faith  in  him?  After  the  progress 
of  a  hundred  years,  what  has  Time  done  with  his  claims  to  the 
title  of  a  Prophet? 

In  order  to  make  plain  the  outcome  of  Time  the  author  has 
dug  up  old  and  forgotten  manuscripts  and  prints  which  he  lays 
before  his  readers,  with  photographic  reproductions  of  the  orig- 
inals.  Price,  $1.25. 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

44-46-48  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE  SALT  LAKE  CITY 

SEND  FOR  OUR  NEW  CATALOG  FREE 


J 


