^iiiiif  ■iiC3iiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiEiiic3iiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiii8ic2iiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiiC3iiiiiiiiiiiic3iiiJ^ 


NINETY-EIGHTH 
ANNUAL 

CONFERENCE 

of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 
jiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiic33iifiiiiiiiicaiiEiiiiiMiicaiiiiiiiiiiiiE3iiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiniica] 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly  Hall 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

April  6,  7,  and  8, 1928 

With  a  Full  Report  of  All 
the  'Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


11  = 


.TiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiif  iiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiinT? 


JOSEPH  SMITH 

The  Prophet-Teacher 

BY  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

A  new  edition — in  two  colors — Now  is  the  time  to  read  it. 

Contains 

'Religious  and  Philosophical  Beliefs  of  One  Hundred  Years 

Ago." 

"The  Prophet's  Correction  of  Sectarian  Errors." 
"The  Prophet's  Philosophical  Doctrines." 
And  other  interesting  and  enlightening  ideas. 

Price  $1.50 


Latter-Day  Saint  Hymns 

The  New  Book 

For  our  choirs  and  adult  congregations  is  now  ready. 

It  contains  421  songs  with  music.  Many  of  the  old  favorites  and 
a  lot  of  new  ones. 

You'll  sing  better  and  more  happily  out  of  this  new  book. 
$1.00  Postpaid 

Per  Dozen,  $11.00 

Cash  With  the  Order,  $10.00  per  doz. 

EVERY  FAMILY  SHOULD  HAVE  A  COPY 

Deseret  Book  Company 

The  Home  of  Worth  While  Books 
44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 


Ninety-Eighth  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  Ninety-eighth  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in  the  Tabernacie,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah,  Friday,  Saturday  and  Sunday,  April  6,  7  and  8,  1928. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Anthony  W.  Ivins  and 
Charles  W.  Nibley. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve :  Rudger  Clawson,  *  George  Albert 
Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David  O.  McKay, 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard 
R  Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard.** 

Presiding  Patriarch  :    Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy:  B.  H.  Roberts,  J.  Golden  Kim- 
ball, Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi 
Edgar  Young,  Rey  L.  Pratt. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric:  Sylvester  O.  Cannon,  David  A. 
Smith,  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  and  the 
following  assistants:  Andrew  Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  Wil- 
liam Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 

Presidents  of  stakes  and  their  counselors  were  well  represented 
from  the  ninety-nine  stakes  of  Zion. 

Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  Wards  and  their  counselors,  and  numerous 
high  priests,  seventies  and  elders,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church,  were 
in  attendance.  Members  of  the  Board  of  Education,  and  officers,  men 
and  women,  of  the  auxiliary  organizations  were  present. 

Mission  Presidents  mere  in  attendance  as  follows:  Henry  H. 
Rolapp,  Eastern  States ;  John  H.  Taylor,  Northern  States ;  Samuel 
O.  Bennion,  Central  States ;  Elias  S.  Woodruff,  Western  States ;  Wm. 
R.  Sloan,  Northwestern  States ;  Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States : 
John  G.  Allred,  Northcentral  States  ;  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  California ; 
Charles  H.  Hart,  Canada ;  Rey  L.  Pratt,  Mexico ;  Benjamin  Goddard, 
Bureau  of  Information,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 


*Reed  Smoot  absent  in  Washington. 

**John  A.  Widtsoe  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

FIRST  DAY 

MORNING  MEETING 

The  opening  session  of  the  conference  began  at  10  o'clock,  Friday, 
April  6th,  1928. 

The  great  auditorium  and  galleries  were  comfortably  filled  with 
people  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a 
prophet." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Richard  C.  May,  Pres- 
ident of  the  Minidoka  Stake. 

Brother  J.  H.  Wood  sang  a  solo,  "Behold,  I  stand  at  the  door  and 
knock." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  certainly  an  inspiring  sight  to  see  this  magnificent  audience  in 
attendance  here  this  morning  at  the  ninety-eighth  anniversary  of  the 
birth  of  the  Church.  When  I  contemplate  the  fact  that  just  a  handful 
of  people  were  in  the  Church  ninety-eight  years  ago  (the  organization 
was  effected  with  six  members)  and  that  now  there  are  over  a  half 
million  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
I  am  reminded  of  the  very  wonderful  revelation  given  to  the  father 
of  the  prophet  over  a  year  before  the  organization  of  the  Church : 

"Now  behold,  a,  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  among  the  children 
of  men. 

"Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve  him 
with  all  your  heart,  .might,  mind  and  strength,  that  ye  may  stand  blameless 
before  God  at  the  last  day. 

"Therefore,  if  ye  have  desires  to  serve  God  ye  are  called  to  the  work; 

"For  behold  the  field  is  white  already  to  harvest;  and  lo,  he  that  thrusteth 
in  his  sickle  with  his  anight,  the  same  layeth  up  in  store  that  he  perisheth  not. 
but  bringeth  salvation  to  his  soul ; 

"And  faith,  hope,  charity  and  love,  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God. 
qualify  him  for  the  work. 

"Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  temperance,  patience,  brotherly  kind- 
ness, godliness,  charity,  humility,  diligence. 

"Ask  and  ye  shall  receive ;  knock  and  it  shall  be  opened  unto  you." 

This  audience  testifies  to  the  fact  that  a  marvelous  work  and  a 
wonder  has  been  established.  It  testifies  to  the  diligence  of  those  who 
have  gone  forth  by  the  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  during  the  last 
ninety-eight  years,  proclaiming  the  gospel  in  all  parts  of  the  world. 

I  had  not  the  slightest  idea  of  reading  this  revelation  when  I  first 
stood  up. 

It  has  always  been  customary  at  our  annual  conferences  to  give 
a  little  account  of  the  activities  of  the  Church  during  the  past  year. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


CHANGES  IN  STAKE  AND  MISSION  OFFICERS  SINCE  LAST  OCTOBER 

CONFERENCE 

(Those  who  have  been  released  have  been  released  with  the  love, 
blessings  and  good  will  of  the  authorities  of  the  Church  and  of  the 
people  where  they  reside. ) 

Stake  Presidents  Appointed :  Uriah  G.  Miller  has  been  honorably 
released  as  president  of  the  Cottonwood  stake,  and  Henry  D.  Moyle 
appointed  to  succeed  him. 

Samuel  W.  Parkinson  has  been  honorably  released  as  president  of 
the  Franklin  stake,  and  Walter  K.  Barton  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

Joseph  R.  Murdock  has  been  honorably  released  as  president  of  the 
Wasatch  stake,  and  David  A.  Broadbent  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

John  E.  Magleby  has  been  honorably  released  as  president  of  the 
South  Sevier  stake,  and  appointed  president  of  the  New  Zealand  mission. 
A  new  stake  president  has  not  yet  been  sustained. 

Mission  Presidents  Appointed:  Apostle  James  E.  Talmage  has 
been  released  as  president  of  the  European  mission,  and  Apostle  John 
A.  Widtsoe  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

Andrew  Johnson  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Swedish 
mission,  and  Gideon  N.  Hulterstrom  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

J.  Howard  Jenkins  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  New  Zea- 
land mission,  and  John  E.  Magleby  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

John  M.  Knight  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Western 
States  mission,  and  Elias  S.  Woodruff  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

John  H.  Taylor  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Northern 
States  mission,  and  Noah  S.  Pond  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

Hugh  J.  Cannon  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Swiss  and 
German  mission,  and  Fred  Tadje  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

New  Wards  Organized:  Manchester  ward,  Los  Angeles  stake; 
Temple  ward,  Maricopa  stake ;  Idaho  Falls  First  and  Second  wards, 
Idaho  Falls  stake,  divided  into  four  wards  to  be  known  as  Idaho  Falls 
First,  Second,  Third  and  Fourth  wards;  Phoenix  ward,  Maricopa 
stake,  divided  into  two  wards  to  be  known  as  the  Phoenix  First  and 
Second  wards;  Solomonville  ward,  St.  Joseph  stake,  formerly  an  in- 
dependent branch;  Ocean  Park  ward,  Hollywood  stake,  divided  into 
two  wards.  The  name  of  Ocean  Park  ward  changed  to  Santa  Monica, 
and  the  new  ward  known  as  Mar  Vista  ward. 

Bishops  Who  Have  Died :  Hyrum  M.  Lau  of  Soda  Springs  ward, 
Idaho  stake;  Henry  J.  Bodily,  of  the  Iona  ward,  Idaho  Falls  stake; 
Alfred  R.  Wilson  of  Payson  first  ward,  Nebo  stake. 

FINANCIAL  STATEMENT 

The  following  is  a  list  of  expenditures  from  the  tithes  of  the  Church 
for  the  year  1927 : 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Stake  and  Ward  Purposes 

There  has  been  returned  from  the  tithes  to  the  stakes  and 
wards  for  building  construction,  maintenance  and 
operation,   $2,041 ,920.46 


( Of  this  amount  there  has  been  expended  for  meeting 
houses  alone  $1,062,163.84.) 

Education 

Expended  for  the  construction  and  operation  of  Church 


Schools   805,117.84 

Temples 

Expended  for  the  construction,  maintenance  and  operation 

of  temples    230,110.77 

Charities 

For  care  of  the  worthy  poor  and  other  charitable  purposes, 

including  hospital  treatment    196,119.48 

Missions 

For  maintenance  and  operation  of  all  the  missions,  and  for 
the  erection  of  places  of  worship  and  other  buildings 

in  the  missions   767,647.80 

Total   $4,040,916.35 


This  amount  has  been  taken  from  the  tithes  and  returned  by  the 
Trustee-in-Trust  to  the  Saints  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of 
the  stakes,  and  wards,  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  Church 
schools  and  temples,  for  charities,  and  for  mission  activities. 

Other  Charities — In  addition  to  charities  paid  from  the  tithes,  as 
before  named,  there  has  also  been  disbursed  the  fast  offerings,  other 
charities  and  assistance  rendered  by  the  Relief  Society,  in  the  sum  of 
$441,575.89,  which  amount,  added  to  the  $196,119.48,  paid  from  the 
tithes,  makes  the  total  charity  assistance  rendered  by  the  Church, 
$637,695.37. 

There  has  been  collected  by  the  various  wards  of  the  Church  and 
paid  to  missionaries  to  assist  in  their  maintenance,  $98,143.56. 

STATISTICAL  AND  OTHER  REPORTS  COMPILED  FROM  CHURCH  RECORDS 
FOR  THE  YEAR  1927 

We  have  at  the  present  time :  Stakes  of  Zion,  99 ;  Wards,  938 : 
independent  branches,  72.  Total  wards  and  branches  in  the  stakes  of 
Zion,  from  Canada  to  Mexico,  1010;  Missions,  27;  Mission  branches 
757. 

Church  Growth — Children  blessed  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the 
Church  in  the  stakes  and  missions,  19,209. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


Children  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions,  14,604. 
Converts  baptized  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  stakes  and 
missions,  6367. 

Number  of  long-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  December  31, 


1927   1,943 

Number  of  short-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  December  31, 

1927   122 

Number  of  local  missionaries    108 


Total  number  of  missionaries  on  foreign  missions  2,173 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  stakes  1,032 


Total  missionaries   3,205 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  at  the  Mission- 
ary Home    985 


Persons  recommended  to  the  temples,  61,567. 
Social  Statistics — Birth  rate,  30  per  thousand: 
Marriage  rate,  14.5  per  thousand. 
Death  rate,  7.5  per  thousand. 
Families  owning  their  own  homes,  70  per  cent. 

Church  Edifices — The. number  of  sites  purchased  for  Church  build- 
ings, and  the  number  of  edifices  purchased,  or  under  construction  during 
1927:    Stakes  and  wards,  119;  Missions,  32.   Total  151. 

Church  Education — Number  of  persons  enrolled  in  Church  schools, 
3,851 ;  Number  of  persons  enrolled  in  seminaries,  10,835 ;  Number  of 
persons  enrolled  in  religion  classes,  61,131.  Total  number  receiving 
week-day  religious  education,  75,817. 

During  the  year  the  very  efficient  man  who  stood  at  the  head 
of  our  educational  system  for  a  number  of  years,  Dr.  Adam  S.  Bennion, 
has  been  honorably  released,  with  appreciation  for  his  most  splendid 
work,  and  Dr.  Joseph  F.  Merrill  has  been  made  the  commissioner  of 
education  for  the  Church.  Dr.  Merrill  has  been  associated  with  the 
University  of  Utah  for  many  years  as  one  of  the  deans  of  that  great 
institution. 

Teacher  training  (average  attendance,  1927)  10,670. 

During  the  last  six  months  the  clerk  of  our  general  conferences,  and 
the  editor  of  the  Improvement  Era,  Elder  Edward  H.  Anderson, 
has  passed  away,  than  whom  no  more  capable,  faithful,  diligent, 
God-fearing  man  has  ever  been  engaged  in  the  service  of  the  Lord 
in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Brother  Hugh 
J.  Cannon,  now  presiding  "over  the  Swiss  and  German  mission,  has 
been  selected  to  succeed  Brother  Anderson  as  the  editor  of  the  Im- 
provement Era — a  most  splendid  successor  to  a  most  splendid  man. 

I  feel  that  we  have  great  cause  to  be  grateful  for  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord  to  us  as  a  people. 

IMPRESSED  WITH  HYMN 

I  was  profoundly  impressed  this  morning  in  listening  to  the  congre- 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


gation  sing,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet."  T  am  sure 
that  whenever  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  sing  this  hymn  our  minds  go 
back  to  the  time  when  it  was  written,  and  we  think  of  the  marvelous 
and  wonderful  work  accomplished  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I 
am  going  to  take  the  time,  although  you  all  know  it  by  heart,  perhaps, 
to  read  this  hymn.  I  do  not  think  I  have  ever  done  so  before  in 
public  in  my  life: 

We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet 

To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days; 
We  thank  thee  for  sending  the  gospel 

To  lighten  our  minds  with  its  rays : 
We  thank  thee  for  every  blessing 

Bestowed  by  thy  bounteous  hand ; 
We  feel  it  a  pleasure  to  serve  thee, 

-\nd  love  to  obey  thy  command. 

When  dark  clouds  of  trouble  hang  o'er  us 

And  threaten  our  peace  to  destroy, 
There  is  hope  smiling  brightly  before  us. 

And  we  know  that  deliverance  is  nigh ; 
W e  doubt  not  the  Lord  nor  his  goodness, 

We've  proved  him  in  days  that  are  past : 
The  wicked  who  fight  against  Zion 

Will  surely  be  smitten  at  last. 

We'll  sing  of  his  goodness  and  mercy, 

We'll  praise  him  by  day  and  by  night. 
Rejoice  in  his  glorious  gospel, 

And  bask  in  its  life-giving  light; 
Thus  on  to  eternal  perfection 

The  honest  and  faithful  will  go, 
While  they  who  reject  this  glad  message 

Shall  never  such  happiness  know. 

THE  PROPHET  JOSEPH 

Speaking  of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  an  eminent  writer  refers  to  him 
in  the  following  language: 

"Yet  he  being  dead  yet  speaketh.  The  work  he  began  has  never  ceased.  *  * 
"Who  can  explain  Joseph  Smith?  What  are  'revelations  from  God'?  What 
is  their  test?  Is  it  not  beyond  all  reason  that  a  lad,  born  of  poor  parents,  devoid 
of  any  save  the  commonest  education,  too  poor  to  buy;  books,  should  have  ac- 
complished what  he  did  in  less  than  forty  years,  unless  there  were  some  great 
reason  for  it? 

"Let  anyone,  even  a  literary  genius,  after  forty  years  of  life,  try  to  write 
a  companion  volume  to  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  then  almost  daily  for  a  number 
of  years  give  out  'revelations'  by  the  score  that  internally!  harmonize  one  with 
another,  at  the  same  time  formulate  a  system  of  doctrine  for  a  new  church, 
introduce  many  new  principles,  resuscitate  extinct  priesthoods,  and  formulate  a 
system  of  church  government  which  has  no  superior  on  earth. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


"Would  he  succeed  in  making  the  system  coherent?  Could  he  influence 
scores  of  intelligent,  wise,  thoughtful,  educated,  religiously  trained  men,  like 
John  Taylor,  Dr.  Richards,  and  scores  of  others,  besides  attracting  thousands 
to  the  fold  of  his  church,  as  did  Joseph  Smith  ?  Even  if  one  were  assured 
that  the  prophet  was  an  imposter,  that  does  not  lessen  the  marvel.  The  mvstery, 
the  riddle,  the  problem,  is  even  greater,  than  before.    *    *  * 

"I  offer  no  explanation.    *    *  * 

"To  deny  such  a  man  a  wonderful  power  over  the  human  heart  and  intellect 
is  absurd.  Only  fanatical  prejudice  can  ignore  it.  However  he  may  be  accounted 
for  by  the  reasoning  mind,  Joseph  Smith,  the  'Mormon'  prophet,  was  one  of  the 
wonders  of  his  time.  That  he  is  not  an  enigma  to  his  followers  (as  he  certainly 
is  to  his  critics)  is  only  another  proof  of  his  wonderfulness." 

I  will  read  a  part  of  section  135,  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

"To  seal  the  testimony  of  this  book  and  the  Book  of  Mormon,  we  announce 
the  martyrdom  of  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  and  Hyrum  Smith,  the  patriarch. 
They  were  shot  in  Carthage  jail,  on  the  27th  of  June,  1844.    *   *  * 

CITES  ACHIEVEMENTS 

"Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet  and  seer  of  the  Lord,  has  done  more,  save  Jesus 
only,  for  the  salvation  of  men  in  this  world,  than  any  other  man  that  ever  lived 
in  it.  In  the  short  space  of  twenty  years,  he  has  brought  forth  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
which  he  translated  by  the  gift  and  power  of  God  and  has  been  the  means  of 
publishing  it  on  two  continents ;  has  sent  the  fulness  of  the  everlasting  gospel, 
which  it  contained,  to  the  four  quarters  of  the  earth;  has  brught  forth  the 
revelations  and  commandments  which  compose  this  book  of  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, and  many  other  wise  documents  and  instructions  for  the  benefit  of  the 
children  of  men;  gathered  .many  thousands  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  founded  a 
great  city,  and  left  a  fame  and  a  name  that  cannot  be  slain.  He  lived  great,  and 
he  died  great  in  the  eyes  of  God  and  his  people ;  and  like  most  of  the  Lord's 
anointed  in  ancient  times,  has  sealed  his  mission  and  his  works  with  his  own 
blood;  and  so  has  his  brother  Hyrum.  In  life  they  were  not  divided,  and  in 
death  they  were  not  separated ! 

"When  Joseph  went  to  Carthage  to  deliver  himself  up  to  the  pretended 
requirements  of  the  law,  two  or  three  days  previous  to  his  assassination,  he  said : 
'I  am  going  like  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter;  but  I  am  calm  as  a  summer's  morning; 
I  have  a  conscience  void  of  offense  towards  God,  and  towards  all  men.  I  shall 
die  innocent,  and  it  shall  yet  be  said  of  me — he  was  murdered  in  cold  blood'." 

THE  ARIZONA  TEMPLE 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  During  the  last  year  it  has  fallen  to  my  lot  to  have  the  priv- 
ilege of  visiting  from  here  to  New  York,  and  in  the  northern  section 
of  the  country,  and  to  have  the  blessed  privilege  of  going  into  Arizona 
and  there  dedicating  one  more  temple  to  the  Most  High  God.  I  rejoice 
in  the  rich  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  that  was  enjoyed 
by  those  of  us  who  had  the  opportunity  of  attending  the  dedicatory 
services  of  that  temple.  I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  the  remarkable  publicity 
that  was  given  to  us  by  the  newspapers  of  Arizona.  Never  in  the 
history  of  the  Church  has  there  ever  been  manifest  a  more  friendly 
feeling  toward  the  Latter-day  Saints  by  those  not  of  us  than  was 
exhibited  by  the  good  people  of  Arizona.  They  devoted  page  after 
page  of  their  papers  to  an  account  of  the  erection  of  the  temple, 
in  publishing  a  sermon  upon  the  vicarious  labor  for  the  dead,  by  Elder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  in  giving  illustrations  and  having  interviews 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  a  favorable  character.  In  addition  the  president  of  the  Church  and 
some  of  those  who  were  at  the  dedication  services  were  invited  to  meet 
with  the  legislature  that  was  then  in  session,  and  the  president  of  the 
senate  made  some  very  complimentary  remarks  regarding  the  splendid 
edifice — one  of  the  finest  buildings  in  Arizona.  He  also  complimented 
the  people  themselves  on  their  integrity  and  their  remarkable  accom- 
plishments in  that  section  of  the  country.  I  could  not  help  but  contem- 
plate the  difference  in  conditions  as  compared  with  the  time  when 
there  was  a  feeling  of  animosity,  almost  of  hatred,  existing  in  the" 
minds  of  the  people  of  the  state  of  Arizona,  regarding  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  I  rejoiced  in  being  able  to  pay  tribute,  in  answer  to  the 
speech  by  the  president  of  the  senate,  to  the  senators  of  the  United 
States  from  Arizona  and  their  defense  of  the  "Mormon"  people,  and 
their  uniform  testimony  of  the  integrity  and  devotion  of  our  people. 

PURCHASE  OF  HILL  CUMORAH 

Within  a  short  time  the  Church  has  purchased  the  Hill  Cumorah. 
The  purchase  embraces  the  farm  where  the  hill  stands,  and  the  ad- 
joining farm,  which  together  with  one  that  we  had  already  purchased, 
including  a  part  of  the  hill,  gives  us  now  the  entire  possession  of  the 
Hill  Cumorah.  I  know  that  the  hearts  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  thrilled 
with  pride  when  the  announcement  was  made  that  we  had  secured  this 
property.  We  now  have  the  home  where  the  prophet  was  born,  and 
have  erected  a  monument  there.  We  now  have  the  house  and  farm  of 
Peter  Whitmer,  where  the  Church  was  born.  We  now  have  the  Palmyra 
home.  We  have  nearly  all  of  the  spots  that  are  sacred  in  the  history 
of  the  Church;  and  we  rejoice  in  the  financial  condition  of  the  Church 
whereby  we  have  been  able  to  accomplish  these  things. 

TEMPLE  WORK 

I  rejoice  in  the  temple  work  that  is  being  done,  and  I  wish  to  ask 
the  Saints  to  try  to  shape  their  affairs  so  that  they  can  occasionally  go 
to  the  temple.  For  years  I  felt  that  I  was  too  busy  to  find  a  day  or 
an  evening  in  which  to  go  to  the  temple.  A  little  over  a  year  ago  I 
made  up  my  mind  that  by  planning  my  affairs,  by  staying  away  from 
lectures  or  concerts  or  theatres  or  operas,  that  I  could  go  to  the  temple 
at  least  once  every  week  and  have  ordinances  performed  in  behalf  of 
some  of  my  loved  ones  who  had  passed  away.  By  making  up  my  mind 
that  I  could  do  this  I  had  no  difficulty  whatever  in  going  through 
the  temple  once  a  week  during  the  entire  year.  Starting  this  year  I 
felt  that  by  a  little  extra  effort  I  could  go  twice  a  week,  and  I  have 
had  no  difficulty  in  doing  this.  True,  I  have  had  to  miss,  perhaps, 
an  opera  or  theatre  or  some  other  function  at  which  I  should  have  liked 
to  be  present,  but  I  have  had  no  difficulty  whatever  during  the  past 
three  months,  in  going  to  the  temple  twice  a  week,  and  when  I  can 
do  so  I  go  more  than  twice  a  week,  so  as  to  make  up  for  the  time 
when  I  am  absent  from  the  city.  Up  to  the  first  day  of  April  I  had 
endowments  to  my  credit  of  more  than  two  a  week  for  this  year.  We 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  9 

can  generally  do  that  which  we  wish  to  do.  A  young  man  can  find 
an  immense  amount  of  time  to  spend  with  his  sweetheart;  he  can  ar- 
range his  affairs  to  do  that.  We  can  arrange  our  affairs  to  get  exercise 
in  the  shape  of  golf  and  otherwise ;  we  can  arrange  our  affairs  to  have 
amusements ;  and  if  we  make  up  our  minds  to  do  so  we  can  arrange  our 
affairs  to  do  temple  work,  judging  from  my  own  experience  of  the 
last  fifteen  months. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  inspire  each  and  all  of  us  to  greater  dili- 
gence in  performing  to  the  full  extent  of  our  ability  the  duties  and 
the.  labors  that  devolve  upon  us  in  doing  vicarious  work  for  our  dead. 

A  WONDERFUL  DECLARATION 

A  very  wonderful  declaration  was  made  by  Moroni  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  one  hundred  and  five  years  ago  this  coming  September : 

"Behold,  I  will  reveal  unto  you  the  Priesthood,  by  the  hand  of  Elijah  the 
prophet,  before  the  coming  of  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord." 

And  the  priesthood  with  all  its  powers,  rights  and  privileges,  has 
been  restored  to  us.  Elijah  has  come.  I  will  not  take  your  time  to 
read  from  the  110th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  which  de- 
clares that  the  Savior  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith  and  to  Oliver  Cowdery, 
and  that  Moses,  and  Elias  and  Elijah  also  appeared  and  conferred 
upon  them  all  the  keys  of  all  the  dispensations  of  the  gospel  that 
have  ever  existed  upon  the  earth. 

"And  he  shall"  plant  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  the  promises  made  to  the 
fathers,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children  shall  turn  to  their  fathers. 

"Tf  it  were  not  so,  the  whole  earth  would  be  utterly  wasted  at  his  coming." 

No  more  wonderful  thing  has  ever  been  accomplished  in  the  his- 
tory of  the  world  than  the  turning  of  the  hearts  of  the  children  to 
their  fathers.  From  the  day  this  message  was  declared  by  Moroni  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph,  men  and  women  all  over  the  world  have  been  or- 
ganizing societies,  hunting  up  their  ancestors,  and  compiling  genealog- 
ical records  of  their  families.  Millions  of  dollars  have  been  expended 
for  these  purposes.  I  have  spoken  to  and  heard  many  times  of  men 
who  have  spent  large  sums  of  money  to  compile  a  record  of  their 
forefathers,  and  after  it  was  compiled,  when  asked  why  they  did  it, 
they  said :  "I  do  not  know ;  I  was  seized  with  an  irresistable  desire  to 
compile  that  record  and  to  spend  money  freely  to  do  it.  Now  that  it 
is  compiled  I  have  no  special  use  for  it."  The  Latter-day  Saints  value 
books  of  that  kind  beyond  price  or  money,  and  when  we  seek  earnestly, 
year  after  year,  to  gain  knowledge  regarding  those  of  our  family 
who  have  passed  away  without  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel,  I  am  sure 
the  Lord  blesses  us  in  obtaining  it.  There  is  a  little  account  of  a 
remarkable  and  wonderful  blessing  bestowed  in  connection  with  the 
ancestors  of  my  wife  which  is  contained  in  the  last  issue  of  the  Gen- 
ealogical Magazine. 

That  the  Lord  may  bless  you  and  me  and  every  soul  that  has  an 
abiding  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  gospel  in  which  we  are  engaged, 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

to  whom  he  has  given  a  knowledge  that  he  lives  and  that  Jesus  is  the 
Son  of  the  Living  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  his  prophet,  to  so  order  our  lives  that  our  light  shining 
forth  through  the  example  of  our  lives  may  bring  those  who  know 
not  the  truth  to  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel,  is  my  humble  prayer,  and 
I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

I  feel  very  grateful  to  the  Lord,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
through  his  mercy  all  of  us  who  are  assembled  here  this  morning  enjoy 
the  opportunity  of  meeting  together  in  general  conference,  upon  the 
ninety-eighth  anniversary  of  the  organization  of  the  Church. 

Reference  has  been  made  by  the  president  to  the  acquisition  by  the 
Church  of  the  spot  of  ground  in  the  state  of  New  York  known  as  the 
Hill  Cumorah.  It  appears  to  me  to  be  an  event  of  such  importance 
that  I  desire  to  devote  the  short  time  which  is  at  my  disposal  this 
morning  to  a  discussion  of  that  subject.  There  have  been  some  dif- 
ferences of  opinion  in  regard  to  it,  and  in  order  that  I  might  be  correct 
in  the  statements  which  I  make  I  have  this  morning  finished  a  short 
manuscript  which  I  would  like  to  read — the  first  time,  I  believe,  in 
my  experience,  that  I  have  ever  addressed  a  congregation  in  this 
manner,  and  I  do  it  for  the  purpose  stated. 

OF  MORE  THAN  ORDINARY  IMPORTANCE 

The  purchase  of  this  hill  which  President  Grant  has  announced, 
is  an  event  of  more  than  ordinary  importance  to  the  membership  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  memories  of  the 
remote  past  which  cluster  round  this  sacred  spot,  its  close  association 
with  the  opening  of  the  present  gospel  dispensation,  which  has  resulted 
in  bringing  together  this  congregation  of  people,  for  without  it  this 
tabernacle  would  not  have  been  erected,  nor  would  we  have  been 
gathered  here  in  worship  today,  and  the  thought  which  we  entertain 
of  the  possibilities  which  its  bosom  may  unfold,  make  the  acquisition 
of  this  hill  almost  an  epochal  accomplishment  in  the  history  of  the 
Church. 

If  our  Bible  chronology  is  correct,  and  it  is  at  least  the  best  we 
have,  it  was  in  the  year  599  before  the  birth  of  Christ,  our  Lord,  that 
Zedekiah  was  chosen  to  be  king  of  Judea.  His  reign  was  of  short  dur- 
ation, extending  over  a  period  of  only  eleven  years.  He  was  in  rebel- 
lion against  the  Babylonian  kingdom,  and  Nebuchadnezzar,  king  of 
Babylon,  with  his  armies  overran  Judea,  made  Zedekiah  prisoner,  put 
out  his  eyes,  killed  his  sons,  and  carried  the  king  away  captive  to 
Babylon. 

It  was  during  the  reign  of  this  king  that  Lehi  and  his  family, 
Ishmael  and  members  of  his  household  and  Zoram,  who  had  been  a 
servant  to  Laban,  left  Jerusalem  and  began  the  journey  which  in  time 
brought  them  to  the  American  continent. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


11 


As  a  guide  to  their  spiritual  life  these  people  brought  with  them 
that  part  of  the  Holy  Scripture  known  to  us  as  the  Old  Testament, 
which  contained  the  first  five  books  of  Moses,  the  prophecies  of  Isaiah, 
Jeremiah  and  others  of  the  ancient  prophets.  These  records  were  en- 
graven upon  plates  of  brass. 

TWO  SETS  OF  PLATES 

Soon  after  the  arrival  of  these  people  and  their  establishment  upon 
this  continent,  Nephi,  the  son  of  Lehi,  was  commanded  to  make  other 
plates,  on  which  a  record  of  the  history  of  his  people  was  to  be  written 
Two  sets  of  plates  were  made  from  metal  which  was  smelted  from 
ores  that  abounded  in  the  new  world  to  which  the  Nephites  had  come ; 
upon  them  Nephi  commenced  to  record  the  history  of  his  people.  Both 
of  these  sets  of  plates  which  were  made  were  called  the  plates  of  Nephi. 
Upon  one  set,  which  was  called  the  larger  plates  of  Nephi,  the  secular 
history  of  the  people  was  kept,  the  reign  of  their  various  kings,  their 
system  of  democratic  government  under  the  judges  who  were  chosen 
by  the  voice  of  the  people,  and  their  wars  and  contentions. 

A  smaller  set  was  made  on  which  the  religious  history  of  the  people 
was  kept  a  record  of  their  faith  in  God  and  the  service  rendered  to  him, 
their  idolatry,  the  hand-dealings  of  the  Lord  among  them,  the  predic- 
tions of  their  prophets  and  the  persecutions  which  they  suffered  because 
of  their  faith  in,  and  adherence  to  the  doctrines  taught  by  their  fathers. 

CAREFULLY  PRESERVED 

It  was  principally  from  these  latter  plates  that  Mormon  made 
the  abridgment  which  constitutes  the  volume  known  as  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  These  records  were  carefully  preserved,  and  passed  through 
the  hands  of  many  different  custodians  before  the  history  closed, 
which  was  more  than  four  hundred  years  after  the  birth  of  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world. 

Besides  these  two  sets  of  the  plates  of  Nephi,  and  the  brass  plates 
which  were  brought  from  Jerusalem,  there  were  twenty- four  plates  of 
gold,  upon  which  was  recorded  a  brief  abridgment  of  the  history  of  a 
people  who  came  from  Babylon  to  this  continent  long  before  the 
arrival  of  the  Nephite  colony.  They  left  the  old  world  at  the  time  of 
the  building  of  the  Tower  of  Babel,  about  2,200  years  before  the  birth 
of  Christ.  It  was  from  these  latter  plates  that  Moroni,  the  son  ot 
Mormon,  transcribed  that  portion  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  known  as 
the  Book  of  Ether. 

It  was  three  hundred  twenty-one  years  after  the  birth  of  Christ 
that  all  of  these  records  came  into  the  hands  of  Ammaron,  who  re- 
ceived them  from  his  brother  Amos,  who  was  the  son  of  Nephi,  who 
wrote  the  Fourth  Book  of  Nephi,  which  appears  in  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, as  the  following  shows — I  am  quoting  here,  as  I  shall  continue 
to  quote,  from  the  Book  of  Mormon  itself: 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  320  years  had  passed  away,  Ammaron,  being 
constrained  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  did  hide  up  the  records  which  were  sacred — yea. 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


even  all  the  sacred  records  which  had  been  handed  down  from  generation  to 
generation,  which  were  sacred — even  until  the  three  hundred  twentieth  year  from 
the  coming  of  Christ. 

"And  he  did  hide  them  up  unto  the  Lord,  that  they  might  come  again  unto  the 
remnant  of  the  House  of  Jacob,  according  to  the  prophecies  and  the  promises  of 
the  Lord.    And  thus  is  the  end  of  the  record  of  Ammaron." 

AMMARON    TO  MORMON 

One  year  later  Ammaron  called  Mormon  to  him  and  gave  him 
the  following  instruction : 

"And  now  I,  Mormon,  make  a  record  of  the  things  which  I  have  both  seen 
and  heard,  and  call  it  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

"And  about  the  time  that  Ammaron  hid  up  the  records  unto  the  Lord,  he 
came  unto  me,  (1  being  about  ten  years  of  age,  and  I  began  to  be  learned  some 
what  after  the  manner  of  my  people)  and  Ammaron  said  unto  me  :    I  perceive 
that  thou  art  a  sober  child,  and  art  quick  to  observe ; 

"Therefore  when  ye  are  about  twenty  and  four  years  old  I  would  that  ye 
should  remember  the  things  that  ye  have  observed  concerning  this  people ;  and 
when  ye  are  of  that  age  go  to  the  land  Antum,  unto  a  hill  which  shall  be  called 
Shim;  and  there  have  I  deposited  unto  the  Lord  all  the  sacred  engravings 
concerning  this  people. 

"And  behold  ye  shall  take  the  plates  of  Nephi  unto  yourself,  and  the  re- 
mainder shall  ye  leave  in  the  place  where  they  are ;  and  ye  shall  engrave  on  tht 
plates  of  Nephi  all  the  things  that  ye  have  observed  concerning  this  people. 

"And  I,  Mormon,  being  a  descendant  of  Nephi,  (and  my  father's  name  was 
Mormon)  I  remember  the  things  which  Ammaron  commanded  me." 

Fourteen  years  after  this  charge  had  been  given  to  Mormon  he 
writes  as  follows: 

"And  now,  the  city  of  Jashon  was  near  the  land  where  Ammaron  had  de- 
posited the  records  unto  the  Lord,  that  they  might  not  be  destroyed.  And  behold 
i  had  gone  according  to  the  word  of  Ammaron,  and  taken  the  plates  of  Nephi, 
and  did  make  a  record  according  to  the  words  of  Ammaron." 

It  will  be  observed  that  at  this  time  only  the  plates  of  Nephi  were 
removed  from  the  hill  Shim,  by  Mormon. 

YEARS  OF  CONSTANT  WAR 

It  was  forty  years  later,  as  near  as  we  are  able  to  fix  the  date  that 
Mormon  again  visited  this  hill,  under  different  circumstances,  as  the 
following  shows.  Forty  years  had  passed,  forty  years  of  constant 
war  and  bloodshed  between  the  Nephite  people  and  their  enemies  the 
Lamanites.  The  Nephites  were  fleeing  before  their  enemies,  taking 
all  of  the  inhabitants  with  them  when  Mormon  says: 

"And  now  I,  Mormon,  seeing  that  the  Lamanites  were  about  to  overthrow 
the  land,  therefore  I  did  go  to  the  Hill  Shim,  and  did  take  up  all  the  records 
which  Ammaron  had  hid  up  unto  the  Lord." 

Mormon,  after  taking  possession  of  the  records,  returned  to  the 
command  of  the  Nephite  armies.  The  sacred  records,  which  had  lain 
in  the  hill  Shim  for  more  than  fifty  years,  were  now  in  the  custody  of 
Mormon,  and  the  Nephite  people  were  fleeing  before  their  enemies. 
Ten  years  later,  ten  years  of  hopeless  struggle,  Mormon  again  writes 
as  follows : 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


13 


"And  I,  Mormon,  wrote  an  epistle  to  the  king  of  the  Lamanites,  and  desired 
of  him  that  he  would  grant  us  that  we  might  gather  together  our  people  unto  the 
land  of  Cumorah,  by  a  hill  which  was  called  Cumorah,  and  there  we  could  give 
them  battle. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  king  of  the  Lamanites  did  grant  unto  me  the 
thing  which  I  desired. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  we  did  march  forth  to  the  land  of  Cumorah,  and 
we  did  pitch  our  tents  round  about  the  hill  Cutmorah ;  and  it  was  a  land  of  many 
waters,  rivers  and  fountains ;  and  here  we  had  hoped  to  gain  advantage  over 
the  Lamanites. 

"And  when  three  hundred  and  eighty  and  four  years  had  passed  away,  we 
had  gathered  in  all  the  remainder  of  our  people  unto  the  land  of  Cumorah. 

IN  THE  HILL  CUMORAH 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  we  had  gathered  in  all  our  people  in  one 
to  the  land  of  Cumorah,  behold,  I,  Mormon,  began  to  be  old" — this  man,  at  this 
time  was,  past  70  years  of  age  and  was  still  the  commander-in-chief  of  the 
Nephite  army  ;  "and  knowing  it  to  be  the  last  struggle  of  my  people,  and  having 
been  commanded  of  the  Lord  that  T  should  not  suffer  the  records  which  had 
been  handed  down  by  our  fathers,  which  were  sacred,  to  fall  into  the  hands  of 
the  Lamanites,  (for  the  Lamanites  would  destroy  them)  therefore  I  made  this 
record  out  of  the  plates  of  Nephi,  and  hid  up  in  the  Hill  Cumorah  all  the 
records  which  had  been  entrusted  to  me  by  the  hand  of  the  Lord,  save  it  were 
these  few  plates  which  I  gave  unto  my  son  Moroni. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  my  people,  with  their  wives  and  their  children, 
did  now  behold  the  armies  of  the  Lamanites  marching  toward  them ;  and  with 
that  awful  fear  of  death  which  fills  the  breasts  of  all  the  wicked,  did  they 
await  to  receive  them." 

THE  FINAL  DISPOSITION 

So  far  as  we  have  information  this  was  the  final  disposition  which 
was  made  of  the  records  given  into  the  custody  of  Mormon,  from  the 
plates  of.  Nephi.  This  latter,  with  the  addition  of  the  Book  of  Ether, 
and  the  few  chapters  written  by  Moroni,  constitute  the  record  con- 
tained in  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

All  of  the  remaining  records,  Mormon  tells  us,  were  deposited 
in  the  Hill  Cumorah. 

That  the  Hill  Cumorah  and  the  Hill  Ramah  are  identical  is  shown 
by  the  following:    Moroni,  in  the  Rook  of  Ether,  says: 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  armies  of  Coriantumr  did  press  upon  the  armies 
of  Shiz" — he  is  telling  the  story  now  of  this  first  people  who  came  to  the 
American  continent  from  the  Tower  of  Babel — "that  they  beat  them,  that  they 
caused  them  to  flee  before  them;  and  they  did  flee  southward  and  did  pitch 
their  tents  in  a  place  which  was  called  Ogath. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  army  of  Coriantumr  did  pitch  their  tents  by 
the  hill  Ramah ;  and  it  was  in  that  same  hill  where  my  father  Mormon  did  hide 
up  the  records  unto  the  Lord,  which  were  sacred." 

The  passages  which  I  have  quoted  from  the  Book  of  Mormon  and 
the  more  extended  discussion  of  this  subject  by  Elder  B.  H.  Roberts 
which  was  published  in  The  Deseret  Nezvs  of  March  3,  1928,  definitely 
establish  the  following  facts:  That  the  Hill  Cumorah,  and  the  Hill 
Ramah  are  identical;  that  it  was  around  this  hill  that  the  armies  of 
both  the  Jaredites  and  Nephites,  fought  their  great  last  battles ;  that 
it  was  in  this  hill  that  Mormon  deposited  all  of  the  sacred  records 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


which  had  been  entrusted  to  his  care  by  Ammaron,  except  the  abridg- 
ment which  he  had  made  from  the  plates  of  Nephi,  which  were  delivered 
into  the  hands  of  his  son,  Moroni.  We  know  positively  that  it  was 
in  this  hill  that  Moroni  deposited  the  abridgment  made  by  his  father, 
and  his  own  abridgment  of  the  record  of  the  Jaredites,  and  that  it 
was  from  this  hill  that  Joseph  Smith  obtained  possession  of  them. 

PART  OF  THE  RECORD  SEALED 

Only  a  portion  of  the  record  which  came  into  possession  of  Josepb 
Smith  was  translated,  and  is  contained  in  the  present  edition  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  Part  of  the  record  was  sealed,  which  he  was  for- 
bidden to  translate.  The  first  Nephi,  foreseeing  that  which  would 
occur  among  the  descendants  of  his  father,  has  this  to  say : 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  the  Lord  God  shall  bring  forth,  to  you  the 
words  of  a  book,  and  they  shall  be  the  words  of  them  which  have  slumbered. 

"And  behold  the  book  shall  be  sealed ;  and  in  the  book  shall  be  a  revelation 
from  God,  from  the  beginning  of  the  world  to  the  ending  thereof. 

"Wherefore,  because  of  the  things  which  are  sealed  up,  the  things  which 
are  sealed  shall  not  be  delivered  in  the  day  of  the  wickedness  and  abominations 
of  the  people.    Wherefore  the  book  shall  be  kept  from  them.    *   *  * 

"And  the  day  cometh  that  the  words  of  the  book  which  were  sealed  shall  be 
read  upon  the  housetops;  and  they  shall  be  read  by  the  power  of  Christ;  and  all 
things  shall  be  revealed  unto  the  children  of  men  which  ever  have  been  among 
the  children  of  men,  and  which  ever  will  be,  even  unto  the  end  of  the  earth." 

FROM  THE  BOOK  OF  ETHER 

The  footnotes  concerning  that  which  I  have  read  refer  us  to  the 
book  of  Ether  from  which  I  desire  to  read  a  few  paragraphs. 

"And  the  Lord  commanded  the  brother  of  Jared  to  go  down  out  of  the 
mount  from  the  presence  of  the  Lord,  and  write  the  things  which  he  had  seen : 
and  they  were  forbidden  to  come  unto  the  children  of  men,  until  after  he  should 
be  lifted  up  upon  the  cross;  and  for  this  cause  did  king  Mosiah  keep  them,  that 
they  should  not  come  unto  the  world  until  after  Christ  should  show  himself  unto 
his  people. 

"And  after  Christ  truly  had  showed  himself  unto  his  people  he  commanded 
that  they  should  be  made  manifest. 

"And  now,  after  that,  they  have  all  dwindled  in  unbelief;  and  there  is  none, 
save  it  be  the  Lamanites,  and  they  have  rejected  the  gospel  of  Christ;  therefore 
1  am  commanded  that  T  should  hide  them  up  again  in  the  earth. 

"Behold  I  have  written  upon  these  plates  the  very'  things  which  the  brother 
of  Jared  saw;  and  there  never  were  greater  things  made  manifest  than  those 
which  were  made  manifest  unto  the  brother  of  Jared. 

"Wherefore  the  Lord  hath  commanded  me  to  write  them ;  and  I  have  written 
them.  And  he  commanded  me  that  I  should  seal  them  up;  and  he  also  hath 
commanded  that  I  should  seal  up  the  interpretation  thereof;  wherefore  I  have 
sealed  up  the  interpreters,  according  to  the  commandment  of  the  Lord. 

"For  the  Lord  said  unto  me :  They  shall  not  go  forth  unto  the  Gentiles  until 
the  day  that  they  shall  repent  of  their  iniquity,  and  become  clean  before  the 
Lord.    *   *  * 

"And  now  I,  Moroni,  have  written  the  words  which  were  commanded  me, 
according  to  my  memory;  and  I  have  told  you  the  things  which  I  have  sealed  up; 
therefore  touch  them  not  in  order  that  ye  may  translate :  for  that  thing  is 
forbidden  you,  except  by  and  by  it  shall  be  wisdom  in  God." 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


15 


AWAITING  THE  TIME 

This  sealed  portion  of  the  record  which  came  into  the  hands  of 
Joseph  Smith  but  was  not  translated  by  him  so  far  as  we  are  aware, 
the  abridgment  made  by  Mormon,  the  record  of  Ether,  and  the 
other  sacred  records  which  were  deposited  in  the  Hill  Cumorah,  still  lie 
in  their  repository,  awaiting  the  time  when  the  Lord  shall  see  fit  to 
bring  them  forth,  that  they  may  be  published  to  the  world. 

Whether  they  have  been  removed  from  the  spot  where  Mormon 
deposited  them  we  cannot  tell,  but  this  we  know,  that  they  are  safe 
under  the  guardianship  of  the  Lord,  and  that  they  will  be  brought 
forth  at  the  proper  time  as  the  Lord  has  declared  they  should  be,  for 
the  benefit  and  blessing  of  the  people  of  the  world,  for  his  word 
never  fails. 

According  to  the  Book  of  Mormon  many  hundreds  of  thousands 
of  people  fell  in  battle  around  this  hill,  and  the  immediate  vicinity. 
It  was  here  that  two  once  powerful  nations  were  exterminated  so  far 
as  their  natural  existence  was  concerned.  It  was  here  that  these  nations 
gathered  together  for  their  last  great  struggles. 

UNTIL   THE  LAST 

These  people  were  human,  as  we  are;  they  carried  with  them 
their  most  precious  possessions  until  the  last,  and  when  the  end  of  the 
mighty  struggle  came,  and  the  result  was  in  doubt,  they  hid  them 
away  in  order  that  they  might  not  fall  into  the  hands  of  their  enemies. 

Without  doubt  these  treasures  lie  concealed  today,  some  of  them, 
at  least,  to  be  brought  forth  in  the  not  distant  future.  How  soon  this 
will  be  we  do  not  know,  but  this  is  certain,  we  are  more  than  a  century 
nearer  that  time  than  we  were  at  the  time  when  Joseph  Smith  took 
from  their  resting  place  in  the  Hill  Cumorah,  the  plates  from  which 
he  translated  the  contents  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

All  of  these  incidents  to  which  I  have  referred,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  are  very  closely  associated  with  this  particular  spot  in  the 
State  of  New  York.  Therefore  I  feel,  as  I  said  in  the  beginning  of  my 
remarks,  that  the  acquisition  of  that  spot  of  ground  is  more  than  an 
incident  in  the  history  of  the  Church;  it  is  an  epoch — an  epoch  which 
in  my  opinion  is  fraught  with  that  which  may  become  of  greater 
interest  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  than  that  which  has  already  occurred. 
We  know  that  all  of  these  records,  all  the  sacred  records  of  the 
Nephite  people,  were  deposited  by  Mormon  in  that  hill.  That  incident 
alone  is  sufficient  to  make  it  the  sacred  and  hallowed  spot  that  it  is 
to  us.  I  thank  God  that  in  a  way  which  seems  to  have  been  providential 
it  has  come  into  the  possession  of  the  Church. 

I  bear  witness  to  you  that  the  words  which  I  have  read  here, 
quoted  from  the  Book  of  Mormon,  which  refer  to  the  future,  will  be 
fulfilled.  Those  additional  records  will  come  forth,  they  will  be  pub- 
lished to  the  world,  that  the  children  of  our  Father  may  be  converted 
to  faith  in  Christ,  our  Lord  and  Redeemer,  through  obedience  to  the 
doctrines  which  he  taught.  May  God  our  Father  hasten  that  day,  is 
my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


A  duet,  "An  angel  from  on  high,"  was  sung  by  Claude  Cornwall 
and  Ellen  Copening  Ferrin. 

SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

Tt  is  a  surprise  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  called  upon 
this  morning  to  address  this  great  congregation.  I  rejoice  with  you, 
however,  in  the  privilege  of  being  present  and  of  listening  to  the  testi- 
monies, the  instructions  and  the  inspiring  remarks  made  by  those  who 
have  spoken.  I  appreciate  the  fact  that  this  work  is  the  work  of  the 
Lord  and  that  it  is  growing.  I  was  reminded  while  President  Grant 
was  speaking,  that  in  examining  the  statistics  for  some  years  past,  I 
notice  that  the  membership  of  the  Church  today  is  over  four  times  as 
great  as  it  was  fifty  years  ago,  and  in  other  respects  the  work  of  the 
Lord  is  growing  and  prospering. 

Yet  I  realize,  also,  that  there  is  great  room  for  progress  and  im- 
provement in  every  line  of  activity.  If  it  were  not  so  we  would  not 
be  the  people  of  the  Lord,  because  he  expects  of  his  people  that  thev 
shall  improve  and  increase  in  good  works  and  in  activity  continually. 
We  are  told  that  the  Savior  said  to  his  disciples  upon  one  occasion  : 
"Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father  in  heaven  is  perfect." 
I  appreciate  the  fact  that  this  life  is  a  life  of  progression,  of  improve- 
ment, of  learning,  and  of  the  application  of  that  learning  to  the  prob- 
lems of  life  and  to  the  bettering  of  conditions  among  humanity. 

We  have  heard  this  morning  the  statement  from  President  Grant 
of  the  work  that  has  been  done  in  a  financial  way  in  the  benefiting  and 
the  blessing  of  the  people  of  the  Church  and  of  mankind.  As  to 
the  money  expended  from  the  tithes  during  the  past  year,  considering 
the  membership  of  the  Church  and  the  conditions  of  the  people,  T 
venture  to  say  that  there  is  no  other  organization  in  the  world  that 
disburses  such  an  amount  of  money  as  does  this  Church.  I  venture  to 
say,  also,  that  there  is  no  other  organization  that  is  expending  it  a^ 
efficiently  as  the  Church  is  doing.  This  is  because  of  the  fact  that 
practically  all  of  the  money  employed  for  charitable  purposes,  for 
missionary  work,  and  for  the  construction,  operation  and  maintenance 
of  the  meetinghouses  and  chapels  throughout  the  Church,  is  expended 
in  a  very  economical  way.  largely  through  the  voluntary,  cooperative 
effort  given  by  the  people. 

I  am  reminded  of  a  statement  made  in  a  government  census 
report  iust  received  at  our  office  a  few  days  ago,  of  one  of  the  or- 
ganizations in  this  country — a  national  organization  of  a  charitable 
nature — wherein  it  is  shown,  as  I  remember  it,  that  less  than  25% 
of  the  money  expended  by  that  organization  was  used  for  benevolences. 
The  remainder  of  it  was  used  for  salaries  and  for  other  purposes 
Some  was  used  for  building  construction  and  maintenance,  but  a 
large  proportion  of  it  was  used  for  other  than  benevolent  purposes,  for 
which  it  was  primarily  raised. 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


17 


We  have  had  in  this  state  recently  a  Community  Chest  drive. 
The  Community  Chest  is  an  organization  that  is  recognized  as  being" 
necessary,  and  more  efficient  and  helpful  than  is  the  case  where  indi- 
vidual drives  are  undertaken  by  various  agencies.  The  result  of  the 
drive  has  been  to  accumulate  funds  amounting  to  about  $150,000,  for 
something  like  nineteen  agencies,  and  for  the  administration  of  that 
organization.  The  members  of  the  Church  appreciate  the  fact  that 
this  is  a  desirable  thing  for  the  community  needs. 

I  would  like  to  call  your  attention,  however,  to  the  fact  that,  in 
addition  to  what  has  been  done  by  the  Community  Chest  this  year  and 
last  year  and  the  previous  year,  the  members  of  the  Church  living 
in  these  city  stakes,  and  the  Church  itself,  have  given  directly  for 
charitable  purposes  in  this  city  each  year  an  amount  equal  to  that  raised 
for  the  Community  Chest.  In  addition  thereto  there  has  been  spent 
something  like  $30,000  for  other  purposes  for  which  various  agencies 
of  the  Chest  are  instituted.  In  other  words,  over  $180,000  was  given 
and  expended  in  this  city  by  the  Church  last  year  for  such  purposes 
as  the  agencies  which  the  Community  Chest  is  undertaking  to  support. 
And,  of  the  money  donated  for  charitable  purposes  every  cent  of  that 
which  was  given,  went  directly  for  the  purpose  for  which  it  was  in- 
tended. A  great  volunteer  effort  was  given  by  the  people  of  the 
Church. 

I  think  there  is  no  other  organization  in  the  world  that  is  willing 
to  give  the  service  or  to  make  the  sacrifices  manifest  by  the  people  of 
this  Church.  This  is  not  to  be  ascribed  to  the  people  of  themselves, 
but  to  the  influence  of  the  Gospel  upon  them.  I  would  like  to  read  a 
word  or  two  from  the  scriptures.  Jesus  in  teaching  his  disciples  on 
one  occasion  said : 

"Tf  any  man  will  come  after  me,  let  him  deny  himself,  and  take  up  his 
cross,  and  follow  me. 

"For  whosoever  will  save  his  life  shall  lose  it;  and  whosoever  will  lose 
his  life  for  my  sake  shall  find  it. 

"For  what  is  a  man  profited,  if  he  shall  gain  the  whole  world,  and  lose  his 
own  soul?  or  what  shall  a  man  give  in  exchange  for  his  soul?" 

In  another  place  the  Savior  gave  a  parable  in  which  he  describes 
a  man  who  has  acquired  means : 

"The  ground  of  a  certain  rich  man  brought  forth  plentifully : 

"And  he  thought  within  himself,  saying,  What  shall  I  do,  because  I  have 
no  room  where  to  bestow  my  fruits? 

"And  he  said,  This  will  T  do :  I  will  pull  down  my  barns  and  build  greater  ; 
and  there  will  I  bestow  all  my  fruits  and  my  goods. 

"And  I  will  say  to  my  soul.  Soul,  thou  hast  much  goods  laid  up  for  many 
years ;  take  thine  ease,  eat,  drink  and  be  merry. 

"But  God  said  unto  him,  Thou  fool !  this  night  thy  soul  shall  be  required 
of  thee:  then  whose  shall  those  things  be,  which  thou  hast  provided? 

"So  is  he  that  layeth  up  treasure  for  himself,  and  is  not  rich  toward  God." 

I  think  that  one  of  the  most  objectionable  conditions  which  pre- 
vails in  the  world  today  is  that  of  selfishness  and  greed.    It  has  caused 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


more  hatred,  strife,  bitterness  and  warfare  among  men  than  almost 
any  other  thing,  so  far  as  my  understanding  goes.  Even  today  in 
this  nation  we  are  experiencing  evidences  of  such  conditions  and  ac- 
tions on  the  part  of  men  in  endeavoring  to  build  up  their  own  fortunes 
at  the  expense  of  the  welfare  of  the  community.  The  people  of  the 
nation  are  aroused,  I  think,  to  a  certain  extent  at  least,  to  an  appre- 
ciation of  the  seriousness  of  this  condition.  Prosperity  tends'  very 
often  to  lead  men  away  from  a  spirit  of  unselfishness.  As  they  acquire 
means  they  tend  to  become,  very  often,  greedy  and  selfish,  and  con- 
cerned only  with  their  own  welfare.  I  believe  it  was  the  Apostle  Paul 
who  said  that  the  love  of  money  is  the  root  of  all  evil.  Surely,  when 
men  set  their  hearts  and  their  minds  solely  to  the  acquirement  of 
wealth,  there  is  great  danger  of  their  losing  the  perspective  of  things 
that  are  more  important  in  life. 

In  contrast  to  the  excessive  desire  for  self-aggrandizement  which 
is  all  too  common  in  the  world,  is  the  spirit  of  charity  and  sacrifice, 
of  love  and  consideration,  which  is  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ. 
The  Latter-day  Saints  are  a  people  who  have  been  trained  to  sacrifice. 
Thev  have  been  trained  to  understand  the  principles  of  the  gospel  which 
the  Lord  has  established,  which  requires  sacrifice.  There  is  no  prin- 
ciple that  is  invoked  today  in  the  Church,  or  that  is  to  be  found  any- 
where, that  is  more  equitable,  more  efficient,  or  that  helps  more  to 
promote  the  spirit  of  humility,  faith  and  stewardship  on  the  part  of 
men,  than  does  the  principle  of  tithing  and  of  offerings. 

The  Lord  has  given  these  principles  to  us  that  we  may  learn  to 
sacrifice,  that  we  may  learn  to  overcome  selfishness,  and  that  we  may 
learn  to  appreciate  the  fact  that  the  things  which  this  earth  possesses 
and  the  things  which  we  have  in  our  possession  are  the  Lord's.  We  can 
use  them  only  during  this  life,  and  we  ought  to  be  willing  to  cultivate 
the  spirit  of  giving  one-tenth,  at  least,  of  our  increase,  for  the  welfare 
of  his  work.  I  can  think  of  no  other  organization,  or  no  other  possi- 
bility of  cooperation  in  so  efficient  a  manner  as  that  which  is  possible 
in  this  Church,  through  the  paying  of  tithes  and  offerings  whereby 
the  means  obtained  through  cooperative  effort  can  be  employed  most 
effectively  for  the  welfare  of  the  people. 

I  do  not  know  of  any  other  organization  that  is  engaged  to  the 
same  extent  as  this  Church,  comparatively,  in  the  building  of  temples, 
chapels,  and  recreation  places,  where  the  people  can  enjoy  the  spiritual, 
social  and  recreational  features  that  are  afforded  bv  the  Church.  T 
visited  one  ward  recently — a  little  ward  comprising  four  hundred 
people — which,  with  the  help  of  the  Church,  had  erected  a  meeting- 
,  house  that  cost,  I  think,  $70,000.  The  four  hundred  members  in  that 
ward,  almost  all  of  them,  had  lost  their  homes  largely  because  of 
adverse  conditions  in  the  farming  industry  and  the  lack  of  a  markel 
for  their  farm  produce.  Yet  they  had  themselves  donated  in  money 
and  in  labor  nearly  one-half  of  the  amount  I  have  stated.  Can  you 
appreciate  what  a  sacrifice  is  made  by  those  people?  Sometimes  I  think 
we  are  inclined  because  of  our  desire  to  build  fine  meetinghouses,  to 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


19 


possibly  overreach  ourselves  and  put  a  greater  strain  upon  the  people 
than  is  desirable  or  necessary.  But  the  people  seem  willing  to  do 
these  things. 

There  is  no  premium  on  poverty.  The  faithful  observance  of  the 
law  of  tithing  does  not  impoverish  those  who  practise  it.  On  the 
contrary,  it  is  a  principle  of  blessing  and  increase.  The  Lord  desires 
that  his  children  shall  prosper  temporally  as  well  as  spiritually.  But 
prosperity,  whether  temporal  or  spiritual,  need  not  prevail  at  the  ex- 
pense of  the  other.  Tithing  is  the  most  important  principle  now  to  be 
obeyed  for  the  building  up  of  the  work  of  God  in  a  financial  way. 
It  is  the  first  donation  expected  of  us  in  the  advancement  of  his  work. 
If  all  men  and  women  throughout  the  Church  who  are  earning  would 
faithfully  pay  their  tithes,  the  Church  would  have  the  means  to  do  the 
things  which  are  required  without  some  other  donations.  In  other 
words,  the  people  would  not  have  to  donate  additional  means  for 
meetinghouses  if  the  members  generally  would  observe  the  principle 
of  tithing. 

.  Now,  as  I  stated,  this  principle  is  one  that  develops  in  men  faith 
in  God.  It  develops  spirituality.  Strange  as  it  may  seem  to  some,  it 
is  one  of  the  most  potent  means  by  which  we  evidence  our  real  faith 
in  the  Lord  and  in  his  work ;  for  we  give  evidence  of  our  faith  by  our 
works.  We  realize  the  fact  that  we  are  his  children,  that  we  are  here 
but  for  a  time,  and  that  we  can  take  none  of  the  goods  that  we  possess 
away  from  this  earth.  It  is  important  that  we  should  employ  the 
means  we  may  possess  in  a  most  effective  manner  for  the  welfare  of 
our  fellowmen  as  well  as  our  own  good. 

Finally,  observance  of  the  law  of  tithing  develops  in  us  a  spirit 
of  economy  and  thrift,  and  of  care  in  the  handling  of  our  own  affairs. 
It  helps  us  to  overcome  selfishness,  and  to  be  considerate  of  our  fellow- 
men.  It  promotes  the  spirit  of  cooperation.  It  develops  greater  faith 
in  the  Lord  and  his  work.   And  it  will  make  this  a  land  of  Zion  to  us. 

I  have  noticed  repeatedly,  and  I  think  it  is  generally  true,  that 
those  who  are  conscientious  tithepayers  are  the  ones  who  are  able 
to  meet  their  obligations  fairly,  and  to  make  steady  progress..  They 
are  blessed  sufficiently  at  least  to  fulfil  their  obligations  and  to  get 
ahead.  The  Lord  blesses  them  and  thev  enjov  spiritual  as  well  as 
temporal  blessings.  I  pray  that  the  Lord  may  help  us  as  Latter-day 
Saints  to  so  live  that  we  may  be  worthy  to  receive  his  blessings, 
through  the  development  of  the  spirit  of  sacrifice,  and  the  observance 
of  this  and  every  other  principle  of  the  Gospel.  With  all  the  prosperity 
that  we  may  enjoy,  and  the  general  improvement  in  our  financial 
conditions,  may  we  still  continue  to  maintain  faithfully  that  principle, 
and  may  we  go  forward  and  cultivate  in  our  hearts  the  feeling  that 
we  are  stewards  of  all  we  possess,  and  that  we  hold  it  in  trust  for 
the  Lord  and  his  work.  Mav  we  develop  the  spirit  of  dedicating  that 
which  we  possess  for  the  building  up  of  his  work!  I  pray  the  Lord 
to  bless  us  to  this  end,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


REY  L.  PRATT 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  in  attendance  at 
this  conference,  and  to  have  the  opportunity  of  adding  my  testimony  to 
those  that  have  been  borne  and  that  will  be  borne  to  the  divinity  of  the 
work  in  which  we  are  engaged. 

While  listening  to  the  opening  remarks  of  President  Grant, 
my  mind  reverted  back  over  the  history  and  the  accomplishments 
of  the  Church  in  the  years  that  have  passed,  since  it  was  organ- 
ized in  this  dispensation  in  which  we  live.  Truly,  it  is  marvelous 
to  contemplate  the  work,  the  development  and  the  faith  of  our 
people.  It  is  marvelous  to  note  how  the  Church  has  extended,  and 
how  rapidly  the  stone  that  is  destined  to  fill  the  whole  earth,  spoken 
of  by  Daniel  the  prophet,  is  rolling  forth.  It  is  marvelous  to  contem- 
plate the  wonderful  foundation  that  was  laid  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  for  the  Church  to  build  upon.  Accurately  was  it  all  laid 
out  and  designed.  It  would  seem  that  there  might  have  been  some 
things  instituted  in  the  beginning  that  would  have  needed  correction  as 
the  work  proceeded.  That  certainly  would  have  been  the  case,  had 
not  this  work  been  established  through  and  by  the  inspiration  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  to  his  chosen  prophet.  There  has  been  laid  for  the 
Church  and  this  people  a  foundation  upon  which  they  have  builded 
without  wavering,  a  foundation  of  faith  that  has  withstood  all  of  the 
trials  and  the  tribulations  and  the  persecutions  and  the  drivings  to 
which  the  Church  has  been  subjected.  The  hymn  that  propounds  the 
question,  "How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  saints  of  the  Lord,  is  laid 
for  your  faith  in  his  excellent  word,"  is  answered  by  the  growth  and 
the  development  and  the  continuity  of  the  Church  that  was  established 
through  the  instrumentality  of  Joseph  Smith.  I  rejoice  in  this  founda- 
tion of  faith  that  has  held  our  people  together,  and  that  has  kept  us 
going  through  all  these  years  that  have  passed.  I  read  with  marvel  in 
my  heart  the  deeds  of  valor  and  of  heroism  enacted  by  our  pioneer 
parents  who  came  to  this  land.  I  stood  again,  the  other  day,  on  the 
site  where  Brigham  Young  made  that  memorable  remark :  "This  is 
the  place!"  I  had  just  grossed  a  desert  country,  overland  from 
El  Paso,  passing  through  parched  and  barren  lands,  and  through 
sections  that  were  inland  seas  in  years  long  passed,  the  ground  parched 
and  cracked,  and  as  I  stood  there  I  thought  that  I  could  visualize  what 
this  country  must  have  looked  like  at  that  time.  Yet,  by  the  vision 
that  was  given,  through  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  his  prophet  was 
able  to  say:  "This  is  the  place."  And  the  foundation  of  faith  laid  in 
the  hearts  of  the  people  of  the  Church  was  sufficient  to  make  them 
believe  it  and  to  build  upon  it,  so  as  to  withstand  the  privations,  the 
trials  and  the  hardships  incident  to  the  conquering  of  this  land. 
What  a  miracle  has  been  wrought!  This  is  a  veritable  garden  spot; 
a  beautiful  city  has  arisen  on  that  wasteland. 

I  recalled,  this  morning,  hearing  my  father  tell  me  of  his  boy- 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


21 


hood  days,  when  grandfather  was  away  on  a  mission,  and  grandmother's 
meager  earnings  as  a  dressmaker  were  not  sufficient  to  supply 
what  was  necessary  to  eat.  They  roamed  these  barren  hills  to 
gather  segos,  thistle  tops  and  red  root,  and  from  those  things,  many 
and  many  times,  made  out  their  meager  meal.  It  is  marveolus  to 
contrast  those  conditions  with  what  we  see  today.  But  I  maintain, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  men  would  not  have  done  that  without 
vision;  men  would  not  have  done  that  without  a  foundation  of  faith 
that  made  them  know,  beyond  all  doubt,  that  this  is  the  work  of  the 
Lord,  and  that  they  were  in  his  service.  They  knew  that  out  of  their 
labors  would  grow  the  very  things  that  we,  their  children,  witness  here 
today. 

The  question  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is,  How  firm  a 
foundation  is  there  laid  in  the  work  of  the  Lord  for  my  faith?  Will 
I  be  able  to  endure  to  the  end?  Will  I  be  able  to  meet  the  changing 
conditions  that  I  find  in  my  life?  I  am  not  called  upon  now  to  do 
those  things  that  I  had  to  do  as  a  boy,  for  I  went  into  a  new  land  and  had 
to  make  fences,  build  ditches,  kill  snakes,  ride  the  cattle-  range,  and 
do  many  things  that  neither  I  nor  my  children  are  called  upon  to  do 
now ;  but  I  meet  conditions,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  test  and  try 
my  faith.  Will  I  be  able  to  live  and  maintain  my  integrity  and  con- 
tinue to  build  upon  the  faith  of  my  fathers?  Will  I  continue  to  build 
upon  the  broad  foundation  that  is  laid  for  our  faith  in  the  work  of  the 
Lord?  We  are  living  in  an  age  of  skepticism.  We  are  living  in  an 
age  of  doubt.  We  are  living  in  a  day  when  men  in  all  parts  of  the 
country  doubt  even  the  existence  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  Statistics 
reveal  the  fact  that  in  these  United  States  half  of  the  population, 
practically,  are  without  organizations  in  a  religious  way.  They 
are  unchurched ;  they  have  no  particular  affiliation  with  any 
religious  denomination.  I  do  not  say,  nor  do  I  believe  from 
my  contact  with  them,  that  they  have  no  faith  in  God,  but  they  are 
not  anchored,  they  are  wandering,  stumbling,  as  it  were,  at  noonday,' 
feeling  for  the  wall,  as  does  the  blind  man.  This,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  is  because  of  the  skepticism  that  has  grown  up,  because  of  the 
false  teaching  in  regard  to  Christ  and  his  mission,  and  in  regard  to  the 
gospel  that  was  established  as  the  means  of  salvation  to  our  Father's 
children  in  the  world.  Will  we  be  led  away  by  the  teachings  of  these 
men  who  are  teaching  false  doctrine,  or  can  we  maintain  our  faith 
and  our  integrity  in  this  glorious  gospel?  We  have  a  marvelous 
mission,  my  brethren  and  sister.s,  to  carry  this  work  into  the  world. 
There  are  thousands  and  thousands  of  people,  millions  of  them,  who 
are  not  conversant  with  the  principles  of  the  gospel.  As  I  have  said, 
they  do  not  believe  that  there  is  a  religion  upon  the  earth  which  is 
divine,  and  still  there  is  something  in  their  hearts,  something  within 
them  that  reaches  out,  and  they  are  longing  for  something  tangible, 
for  something  real,  that  they  might  know  where  the  word  of  God  is. 
Within  our  keeping  is  the  responsibility  of  carrying  this  great  message 
of  the  restored  gospel  to  them. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  bear  you  witness,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  have 
the  truth.  I  am  satisfied,  beyond  a  doubt,  that  the  Book 
of  Mormon  was  found  in  the  Hill  Cumorah,  which  hill  has 
been  acquired  by  the  Church.  I  rejoice  in  this.  I  knew  long  before 
last  summer  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  true.  I  have  studied  it, 
I  have  pondered  upon  it,  I  have  read  it  again  and  again  in  two 
languages.  I  have  taught  the  people  among  whom  I  have  been  called 
to  labor  that  it  is  true;  but  last  July,  for  the  first  time  in  my  life,  I 
had  the  opportunity  of  standing  upon  that  hill,  and  I  endeavored  to 
visualize  what  transpired  there  one  hundred  years  ago.  In  my  heart, 
I  prayed  to  the  Lord  that  I  might  have  a  witness  there  that  the 
book  is  true,  that  the  record  had  been  taken  from  that  sacred  ground. 
I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know,  as  well  as  I  know  that  I  am 
looking  into  your  faces,  that  the  angel  Moroni  stood  there  with  the 
boy  prophet  and  handed  to  him  those  records.  I  bear  you  my  testimony 
that  I  know  that  that  boy,  by  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  translated 
that  record,  and  we  have  it  as  a  witness  for  God  in  the  earth  today. 
The  gospel;  in  its  fulness,  is  contained  in  that  sacred  record.  I  would 
that  the  people  of  the  Church  would  study  it  more  than  they  do.  I 
had  occasion  to  make  frequent  inquiry,  during  the  last  year  and  a 
half,  among  our  missionaries  who  came  into  the  mission  field  as  to 
their  having  read  and  studied  that  book  before  they  came  out.  I  find, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  there  are  far  too  many  of  them  who 
have  not  given  it  serious  consideration,  and  have  not  studied  it.  I 
rejoice  in  the  fact  that  there  is  in  the  Church  a  disposition  now,  among 
the  auxiliary  organizations,  to  get  the  youth  of  Zion  to  read  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  You  cannot  read  it  without  believing  it  is  the  word  of  God,  and 
that  it  has  been  given  to  us  for  a  purpose.  I  rejoice  in  the  Opportunity 
that  has  come  to  me  to  labor  with  the  people  whose  ancestors  wrote  it. 
I  bear  you  my  witness  that  the  Lamanite  people  are  of  Israel.  I  bear 
you  my  witness  that  they  are  descendants  of  those  men  who  wrote  that 
book,  and  I  wish  to  do  my  part  in  their  behalf.  I  wish  to  be  in- 
strumental, in  the  hands  of  the  Lord,  in  bringing  back  to  them  the 
glorious  knowledge  that  gives  such  joy  to  me, — that  the  Book  of 
Mormon  is  true,  that  it  contains  a  record  of  their  forefathers,  that 
it  will  teach  to  them  the  principles  of  the  everlasting  gospel,  and  that, 
by  following  those  teachings,  they  may  be  saved  in  our  Father's 
kingdom. 

We  have  the  Bible,  a  wonderful  record  which  we  all  appreciate, 
as  well  as  the  Book  of  Mormon.  But  J  wonder,  as  is  propounded  in  the 
29th  chapter  of  Second  Nephi,  whether  we  have  reflected  whence  we 
obtained  the  Bible  ?  We  obtained  it  through  the  Jewish  nation.  It  was 
the  Jews  who  wrote  it,  and  the  Book  of  Mormon  asks  the  question : 
What  credit  do  the  Gentiles  give  to  the  Jews  for  the  Bible  that  they 
appreciate  so  highly  ?  Do  we  esteem  them  as  we  should  ?  Do  we  reach 
out  to  them,  as  we  should,  in  an  endeavor  to  make  true  and  to  bring 
to  pass  the  glorious  promises  of  restoration  for  the  Jews,  as  con- 
tained in  the  Bible?    Likewise,  do  we,  as  a  people,  realize,  to  the 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


23 


full  extent,  our  obligation  to  the  children  of  those  who  wrote  the 
Book  of  Mormon?  Do  we  always  feel  inclined  to  reach  out  to  them 
and  endeavor  to  make  possible  and  to  bring  to  a  reality  and  to  fulfil- 
ment the  promises  of  the  Lord  made  to  those  people,  as  recorded  in  that 
book? 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  that  I  have,  that  the  gospel  is  true.  My 
desire  is  to  serve,  in  my  humble  and  weak  way,  so  long  as  the  Lord  re- 
quires my  service.  I  desire  that  my  family  shall  be  found  employed  and 
engaged  in  service  to  our  Father  in  heaven  and  to  his  Church.  There 
is  nothing  else  in  all  the  world  that  I  love  so  much  as  I  do  my  family, 
my  children.  To  me  they  are  very  dear,  and  I  desire  them  to  grow  up 
in  an  environment  where  they  shall  have  this  same  faith,  and  where  they 
shall  have  this  same  testimony.  I  desire  them  to  have  fin  opportunity 
to  serve  in  our  Father's  kingdom  also.  I  love  the  young  men  and  the 
young  women  whom  the  Lord  has  sent  out  to  labor  with  me,  during  the 
past  twenty-one  years,  in  the  missionary  field.  I  feel  a  kinship  to 
them,  almost  equal  to  that  which  I  feel  toward  my  own  boys  and  girls. 
I  rejoice  when  I  see  them  go  home  in  faith,  and  engage  actively  in  the 
ministry  there;  and  I  rejoice,  beyond  measure,  to  have  an  experience 
such  as  I  had  just  the  other  day,  when  a  young  man  walked  into  my 
office,  for  I  had  not  received  word  that  he  was  coming  or  why  he  had 
come.  When  I  asked  him,  "How  long  are  you  going  to  stay?"  he  said, 
"I  have  come  to  serve  again  as  a  missionary,  for  six  months,  in  this 
mission."  Twenty-one  years  ago  he  served  as  secretary  in  the  Mexican 
mission.  He  has  grown  and  has  developed  during  those  twenty-one 
years.  He  is  more  efficient  today  than  he  was  then.  I  rejoice  to 
see  them  come  back,  not  only  with  their  spirits  as  bright  as  when  they 
left,  but  with  renewed  energy,  with  renewed  intelligence,  and  better 
qualified  to  deliver  the  great  gospel  message. 

Let  us  assume  the  responsibilities  that  are  ours,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  in  the  spread  of  the  gospel.  Let  us  be  mindful  of  the  fact 
that  we  must  teach  by  example  as  well  as  by  precept.  The  Lord  help 
us  to  do  so,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  following  telegram  has  been  received  from  S.  N.  Kunz  of 
Montpelier,  Idaho: 

"We  are  hearing  the  opening  services  by  radio  more  distinctly  than 
we  usually  do  in  most  sections  of  the  Tabernacle." 

The  congregation  sang,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Heber  J.  Burgon,  presi- 
dent of  the  East  Jordan  stake  of  Zion. 

The  meeting  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Promptly  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.  President  Heber  J.  Grant  opened  the 
meeting  by  announcing  that  the  congregation  would  sing  the  hymn, 
"O  ye  mountains  high." 

After  the  singing,  the  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Klder  David 
A.  Broadbent,  president  of  the  Wasatch  stake  of  Zion. 

A  quartet  sang  "The  choice  seer,"  solo  part  by  Charles  C.  Martin. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

There  will  be  held,  the  first  of  next  week,  in  San  Francisco,  the 
annual  convention  of  the  Boy  Scouts  of  America.-  I  promised  myself 
the  pleasure  of  being  there,  but  circumstances  prevent  me  from  going. 

As  most  of  you  are  aware,  the  states  of  Utah  and  Idaho  have  taken 
a  very  active  part  in  this  movement,  as  a  great  many  of  our  boys  belong- 
to  the  Boy  Scouts  of  America. 

We  are  honored  today  with  the  presence  of  Dr.  Roy  O.  Wyland, 
who  is  the  Director  of  Education  of  the  National  Council  of  Boy 
Scouts  of  America.  We  will  now  have  the  pleasure  of  hearing  Dr. 
Wyland. 

MR.  ROY  O.  WYLAND 

Director  of  Education,  National  Organisation,  Boy  Scouts  of  America 

President  Grant,  my  fellow  countrymen,  and  brothers  in  Christ : 
As  I  came  upon  this  platform  I  breathed  a  prayer  that  God  would 
give  me  words  of  wisdom  that  I  might  speak  to  you  a  message  which 
will  help  to  further  the  splendid  work  that  you  have  been  doing  and 
that  you  are  now  doing  for  the  youth  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  am  exceedingly  happy  to  stand  upon  this  platform  and  to  bring 
you  greetings  from  the  National  Council  of  the  Boy  Scouts  of  America; 
and,  if  possible,  to  give  you  in  part,  a  vision  of  the  vitality,  of  the 
rapid  spread,  and  of  the  effectiveness  of  the  work  of  an  organization 
which  is  great  because  other  people  throughout  the  world  are  mani- 
festing the  same  definite  interest,  though  probably  not  in  so  wide  a 
degree,  as  you  are  here  in  Utah  and  throughout  your  magnificent  Church 
in  the  work  of  this  movement  as  a  means  of  service  to  their  boyhood. 

Behold  a  modern  movement  of  the  knighthood  of  youth  which 
enrolls  in  its  membership  each  year  more  than  a  quarter  of  a  million 
boys  who  never  were  Scouts  before;  a  movement  which,  in  eighteen 
years,  has  enrolled  approximately  three  million  boys,  and  three-quarters 
of  a  million  men  who  have  given  volunteer  leadership  to  make  possible 
a  larger  service  to  the  youth  of  the  nation ;  a  movement  which,  in  the 
year  1927,  had  an  enrollment  of  about  four  million  boys  and  186,000 
men ;  a  movement  which  reaches  out  into  the  open  spaces  to  serve  the 
boy  upon  the  farm  with  a  Lone-Scout  program,  which  he  receives 


DR.  ROY  O.  IVY  LAND 


25 


through  the  mail,  through  the  Lone-Scout  Patrols  which  are  carried 
on  in  the  homes  of  the  farmers  (his  neighbor  boys  gather  with  him 
around  the  fireside  during  the  long  winter  months)  ;  a  work  which 
reaches  unto  our  colored  boys  in  the  South,  in  a  division  which  has 
recently  been  established  with  the  colored  youth  of  the  nation !  It  is 
a  program  which  reaches  into  the  life  and  thought  and  feelings  of 
every  class  and  type  of  people,  of  every  political  and  religious  party 
in  the  United  States,  and  is  universal  in  its  scope. 

I  do  not  know  whether  you  can  appreciate  what  four-million  mem- 
bership looks  like.  T  cannot  see  that  many  people.  The  truth  of  the 
matter  is,  I  never  before  in  my  life  looked  into  the  faces  of  an  audience 
so  large  as  this.  This  is  the  largest  inspiration  that  has  ever  come  into 
my  life  in  facing  a  group  of  representative  men  and  women.  But 
imagine,  if  you  will,  a  group  of  four  million  boys  and  men.  If  you 
would  gather  that  great  group  of  boys  and  men  on  Long  Island  and 
march  them,  in  single  file,  across  Brooklyn  Bridge  and  up  Broadway 
and  along  the  Storm  King  Highway  to  Albany  and  to  Buffalo,  on  to 
Toledo,  Chicago,  Omaha,  Cheyenne,  Salt  Lake  City  and  San  Francisco, 
when  you  had  gathered  two  hundred  thousand  Scouts  at  the  Golden 
Gate,  at  the  Palace  of  the  Legion  of  Honor,  with  a  marching  column 
three  thousand  miles  across  this  continent,  you  would  still  have  more 
than  two  hundred  thousand  on  Long  Island  that  had  not  yet  crossed 
Brooklyn  Bridge.  That  is  the  membership  of  a  movement,  a  crusade, 
a  modern  knighthood  of  youth  that  has  spread  throughout  this  land 
in  the  brief  space  of  eighteen  years,  which  adds  to  its  membership 
a  little  more  than  one  hundred  thousand  each  year. 

Scouting  is  not  con  finer!  to  America.  In  the  eighteen  years  it  has 
been  saturating  this  country.  Scouting  has  reached  out  to  the  civilized 
world,  and  today  we  have  a  membership  in  the  other  nations  which 
totals  about  four  millions.  Forty-three  of  our  leading  civilized  nations 
have  national  Scout  associations.  Every  four  years  they  send  rep- 
resentatives to  the  international  jamboree,  where  a  great  concourse 
of  boys  (some  fifteen  to  sixteen  thousand)  meet  on  the  same  common 
field,  not  a  battle  field,  thank  God,  but  on  the  field  of  friendly  en- 
deavor, to  demonstrate  the  achievements  of  Scouting,  in  the  forty-three 
civilized  nations,  which  forms  an  international  brotherhood,  reaching 
out  beyond  the  points  of  our  mother-land,  and  gripping  the  hand  of 
our  brother  Scouts  in  our  brother-lands  around  the  world.  These 
Scouts  of  all  nations  are  learning  to  be  brothers,  to  understand  one 
another,  to  respect  one  another,  to  sympathize  with  one  another,  and 
to  look  through  the  eyes  of  a  brother  Scout  into  the  problems  and  lives 
and  sympathies  and  rights  of  other  Scouts  and  other  nations  the  world 
around. 

We  believe  that  we  are  laying  the  foundation  and  furthering  a 
movement  of  world  brotherhood  in  this  splendid,  magnificent  boy  move- 
ment which  has  swept  the  nations  of  the  world. 

But  Scouting  is  not  confined  to  the  forty-three  nations.  There 
are  Scout  troops  in  some  twenty  or  more  other  nations,  where  there  has 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


not  been  sufficient  organization,  as  yet,  to  establish  a  national  organ- 
ization, but  Scout  troops  are  there  organized  and  are  carrying  out  their 
method  of  Scouting  in  their  own  way,  looking  forward  to  the  time 
when  they  will  be  sufficiently  strong  to  organize  a  national  association 
and  to  become  part  of  the  international  fellowship  of  Scouting.  So 
the  sun,  in  all  its  course,  never  ceases  to  shine  upon  the  uniform  of  the 
Roy  Scout  of  the  nations  of  the  world,  and  that  is  a  picture  of  this 
movement  of  Scouting  throughout  the  world. 

We  have  just  produced  a  new  handbook  for  boys,  which  went  to 
the  press  in  the  first  week  in  November,  1927.  We  ordered  a  half 
million  copies  as  the  first  part  of  a  million  order.  The  printers  were 
so  much  surprised  at  the  size  of  the  order  that  they  looked  into  the 
records  to  find  if  any  other  order  of  its  size,  had  ever  been  given,  and 
they  found  that  it  was  the  largest  single  order  of  any  book  or  form 
that  had  ever  been  given  to  any  publisher.  We  have  already  sold  five 
hundred  thousand  copies,  and  the  other  day,  before  he  left  New  York 
for  San  Francisco,  Mr.  West  placed  an  order  for  two  hundred  thou- 
sand more  copies  of  the  new  handbook,  to  satisfy  a  need  that  is  evident 
within  four  months  from  the  time  that  the  book  was  given  to  the 
public.  The  old  handbook  went  through  thirty-seven  editions  in 
seventeen  years,  and  three  million  one  hundred  thousand  copies  were 
circulated.  There  is  only  one  other  book  in  print  that  has  had  as  wide 
a  circulation  among  the  people  of  any  civilized  land  as  our  handbook, 
and  that  is  the  Christian  Bible,  the  circulation  of  which  is  many  times 
more  than  that  of  our  handbook,  but  we  hold  second  place. 

I  have  indicated  these  high  spots  in  the  power  and  influence 
and  rapid  spread  of  Scouting,  only  to  impress  your  mind  with  the 
vitality  of  this  movement.  You  have  been  aware  of  the  vitality  of  the 
Church.  I  have  also  been  aware  of  the  vitality  of  the  Church.  I  have 
read  several  of  the  books  on  "Mormonism."  I  have  been  impressed 
with  your  method  of  organization.  I  have  been  impressed  with  your 
rapid  spread.  I  have  been  more  impressed  by  what  I  have  seen  and 
felt  here  today  than  by  anything  I  have  ever  read  or  seen  of  the  vitality 
and  power  and  onward  sweep  of  the  great  Church  of  which  you  are 
a  part. 

I  should  like  you  to  have  a  vision  of  the  vitality  of  the  Church 
and  the  vitality  of  Scouting  tied  up  together  in  one  union  for  the 
service  of  the  youth  of  this  nation.  I  should  also  like  you  to  feel 
the  power  that  can  be  carried  forward  through  the  combination  of 
religion  in  the  life  of  adults  tied  up  with  the  program  of  vitality  in  the 
life  of  youth,  so  that  the  leadership  and  the  power  and  example  of 
adults  can  be  brought  to  bear  and  made  effective  in  the  life  of  youth. 

Scouting  vitality  may  be  accounted  for  on  three  counts :  First,  its 
appeal  to  the  boy  because  of  the  great  out-of-doors  that  it  brings  into 
his  life,  the  skill,  the  information,  the  fun  and  the  fellowship  and 
all  that  goes  into  it,  and  its  romance  and  friendship  that  makes  it  appeal 
to  the  boy.  Scouting  vitality  is  accounted  for  secondly  on  the  basis 
of  its  appeal  to  men  because  of  the  physical  benefits  and  vocational 


DR.  ROY  0.  WYLAND 


27 


guidance,  the  clean  recreation,  the  clean  reading  program,  the  citizen- 
ship training,  the  character  building,  the  initiative,  the  courage,  the 
manhood  and  the  recognition  that  bring  into  the  lives  of  boys  those 
principles  which  make  reliable  citizens.  There  you  have  two  appeals. 
But  there  is  a  third  one,  which  many  people  do  not  see,  and  that  is 
the  appeal  which  Scouting  makes  to  the  institutions  which  carry  on 
this  program  as  a  part  of  their  programs ;  for  you  must  realize  that 
Scouting  does  not  go  out  to  the  world  to  propagate  itself.  It  is 
propagated  by  those  who  believe  in  it,  and  those  who  believe  in  it  and 
carry  it  forward,  in  a  great  majority  of  cases,  are  those  who  make 
up  the  churches  of  America.  It  has  been  my  responsibility  and  supreme 
opportunity  to  be  the  liaison  between  the  Boy  Scout  movement  and  the 
churches  of  all  states  in  this  land,  and  I  have  had  a  delightful  fellow- 
ship with  men  of  all  religions  and  all  faiths  and  creeds  and  have  been 
able  to  help  tie  into  the  program  of  the  various  church  bodies  the 
activities  which  Scouting  offers  in  better  service  to  their  boyhood. 

We  believe  that  Scouting  has  succeeded  in  America.  We  not  only 
believe  but  we  know  it  has  succeeded  in  America  far  beyond  its 
success  in  any  other  country;  so  much  so  that  we  can  match  the  entire 
Scouting  population  of  all  the  races  of  the  world  with  our  Scouting 
population,  because  of  the  fact  that  the  churches  of  America  have  taken 
Scouting  and  made  it  a  part  of  their  program  in  the  service  to  youth. 
More  than  sixteen  thousand  of  our  twenty-seven  thousand  Scout  troops 
are  in  churches.  The  church  furnishes  the  leadership ;  it  furnishes 
the  places  in  which  to  meet ;  it  furnishes  supervision ;  it  names  the 
troops ;  it  names  the  Scoutmasters,  and  the  local  church  controls  the 
Scout  program  through  its  own  leadership.  They  administer  the  leader- 
ship ;  they  sponsor  and  carry  on  that  program.  The  Boy  Scout  move- 
ment has  started  out  to  carry  on  a  program  gathered  around  a  certain 
ideal,  a  beautiful  conception  of  an  ideal, — a  soul ;  and  that  soul  is 
expressed  in  the  Scout  oath  involved,  and  will  make  the  movement  live. 

The  churches  of  America  have  supported  our  movement  because 
they  feel  that  the  soul  of  Scouting,  as  expressed  in  the  Scout  oath  and 
law,  is  thoroughly  in  line  with  the  objectives  of  the  church.  For 
example,  at  the  north  pole  of  the  Scouting  compass,  we  have  placed, 
duty  to  God ;  at  the  point  of  the  rising  sun,  we  have  placed,  duty  to 
country ;  at  the  point  of  the  genial  south,  we  have  placed,  duty  to  our 
fellow-men;  and  at  the  point  of  the  setting  sun,  duty  to  self.  And 
these  are  the  words  of  the  Scout  Oath : 

"Upon  my  honor  I  will  do  my  best — 

"1.    To  do  my  duty  to  God  and  my  country,  and  to  obey  the  Scout  Law. 
"2.    To  help  other  people  at  all  times. 

"3.    To  keep  myself  physically  strong,  mentally  awake,  and  morally  straight." 

Between  duty  to  God  and  duty  to  country,  a  Scout  is  trustworthy, 
loyal  and  helpful. 

Between  duty  to  country  and  duty  to  others,  a  Scout  is  friendly, 
courteous  and  kind. 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Between  duty  to  others  and  duty  to  self,  a  Scout  is  obedient,  cheer- 
ful, and  thrifty. 

Between  duty  to  self  and  duty  to  God,  a  Scout  is  brave,  clean  and 
reverent. 

And  there  you  have,  swinging  around  the  Scout  compass,  the 
sixteen  points,  beginning  with  duty  to  God,  and  coming  back  again 
to  duty  to  God,  in  the  twelve  Scout  laws.  So  the  ideal  of  Scouting 
and  the  objective  and  aim  of  the  church  are  one.  And  so  the  church 
has  taken  Scouting  to  its  bosom  to  carry  forward  its  program. 

There  are  four  or  five  reasons  why  the  church  offers  the  best 
home  to  the  Boy  Scout  troops.  I  should  like  to  name  these  and 
further  impress  upon  you  the  responsibility  you  have,  as  leaders  of  the 
church,  to  carry  out  in  the  lives  of  these  boys  in  the  church  the  spiritual 
program  you  have  for  your  boys,  and  supplement  the  activities  program 
which  Scouting  offers  to  them. 

The  church  is  the  best  home  for  a  Scout  troop,  first,  because  it 
has  the  moral  and  spiritual  atmosphere  in  which  boys  should  grow  up. 
As  no  other  institution,  it  has  the  soul  and  spirit  life  which  surrounds 
the  place  and  which  surrounds  the  boy  whose  life  centers  in  the  church. 
Then  again  the  church  has  the  man  power  with  the  right  character,  the 
right  spirit,  the  right  vision,  who  are  worthy  to  be  leaders  of  boys :  and 
that  character  and  that  spirit  and  that  vision  are  more  important  to 
the  boys  than  are  all  the  skill  and  information  you  can  ever  get  over 
through  the  Scout  handbook  or  any  other  handbook  you  may  find.  In 
the  third  place,  because  of  the  spiritual  atmosphere  and  the  right  ex- 
ample of  men,  the  church  in  the  community  has  the  confidence  of 
fathers  and  mothers  in  the  community  as  no  other  institution  has  that 
confidence;  and,  because  of  that,  it  will  have  the  support  of  fathers 
and  mothers  in  a  community  as  no  other  movement  will  have.  In  the 
fourth  place,  the  church  can  complete  in  the  lives  of  these  boys  a 
program  of  religious  education  which  Scouting  cannot  give.  We  deal 
with  the  great  body  of  the  Catholic  church  and  are  officially  represented 
in  their  circles,  and  our  program  is  carried  forward  under  the  super- 
vision of  their  cardinals,  archbishops  and  bishops.  We  are  represented 
also  in  about  thirty  or  forty  of  the  protestant  denominations  in  America, 
and  our  program  is  carried  forward  by  them  to  their  groups.  We 
are  also  represented  in  the  Jewish  groups  of  America  by  their  com- 
mittee, and  so  on.  We  cannot  let  the  Boy  Scout  movement  pass  out 
anything  of  a  definitely  religious  program  to  these  groups,  but  expect 
these  groups  to  take  up  our  program  of  activities  and  carry  it  along- 
side, and  tie  in  with  it,  and  bring  to  bear  upon  the  lives  of  their  own 
boys,  the  spiritual  message,  the  spiritual  ideals,  the  spiritual  life,  the 
religious  life  of  the  church  of  which  the  troop  is  a  part. 

But  there  is  another  reason  why  we  want  our  Scouting  tied  into 
the  church,  and  that  is  because  of  the  thought,  that  no  matter  how 
effective  a  Scouting  program  may  be  in  the  lives  of  boys,  we  know  it 
is  a  temporary  program,  which  may  serve  the  boy  in  the  period  of  his 
youth  and  early  adolescence,  as  he  grows  to  manhood,  but  it  is  only 


DR.  ROY  O.  WYLAND 


29 


a  brief  period.  You  know,  if  you  take  a  man  along  that  period,  ever 
so  well,  for  two  or  three  years,  and  leave  him  there  without  support  and 
without  foundation,  without  anything  to  help  him  to  carry  on,  you  have 
not  done  him  any  more  service  than  if  you  started  to  carry  a  man 
across  the  country,  to  a  town  beyond,  and  lost  him  in  the  prairie  or  in 
the  woods,  or  marooned  him  on  a  desert  island.  That  is  not  helping 
a  man  to  attain  his  destiny. 

But  what  has  the  church  ?  The  church  has  a  program  that  ministers 
for  the  boyhood  under  its  mother  arm,  that  carries  on  through  his 
growing  period  of  life  to  manhood  and  maturity  and  old  age  and  down 
to  the  grave.  The  church  has  a  program  that  ministers  all  the  way 
along.  Scouting  is  brief  in  its  period  with  the  boy.  If  we  can  tie 
up  Scouting  with  a  boy,  we  will  tie  up  the  boy  with  his  church  and 
with  his  God,  and  then  this  program  will  carry  on  in  his  life,  and  the 
church  will  be  there  to  sustain  and  bless  and  support  him  to  the  end 
and  out  into  the  life  to  come. 

One  last  word  and  I  am  through.  I  am  happy  to  bring  you 
word  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  using  the 
Boy  Scout  program  in  a  larger  way  than  any  other  church  in  existence. 
I  am  happy  to  tell  you  that  there  are  846  troops  among  the  Latter- 
day  Saints ;  that  you  have  a  larger  per  capita  of  Scouts  in  your  member- 
ship than  any  other  religious  body  on  record.  I  am  happy  also  to  tell 
you  that,  in  the  State  of  Utah,  you  have  a  larger  percentage  of  Scouts 
in  the  boy  population  than  any  other  state.  And  I  am  happy  also  to 
tell  you  that  the  reason  for  this  is  because  you  have  a  closer  tie-in  and 
community  correlation  with  Scouting  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  than  in  any  other  church  as  a  church  body.  You 
have  absolutely  correlated  and  included  Scouting  with  your  program 
for  young  boys.  I  am  happy  to  say  also  that  a  large  part  of  that  success 
is  due  to  the  fact  that  you  have  had  a  leadership  in  your  Church,  in  the 
personality  of  Mr.  Oscar  A.  Kirkham  and  Mr.  Datus  E.  Hammond  and 
other  executives,  sponsored  by  your  able  President  and  members  of  the 
Council  of  Twelve,  sponsored  also  by  your  local  bishops,  and  carried 
on  by  your  local  wards  and  stakes  throughout  this  country,  that  has 
given  a  volunteer  and  a  loyal  leadership  and  support  that  is  unequalled 
by  any  other  religious  body  in  America.  And  I  say  that  because  I 
know,  because  I  study  the  records  of  all  of  them.  I  close  by  saying  that 
I  pray  God  that,  through  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  work  of  Scouting 
and  youth  in  this  Church  may  be  carried  on  and  live  forever. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

I  am  sure  that  we  all  rejoice  in  the  encouragement  and  satisfaction 
which  we  have  just  received.  Wip  could  well  say  to  the  eminent  gentle- 
man who  has  just  addressed  us  that  nothing  could  be  said  to  give  us 
greater  and  more  lasting  satisfaction  than  that  our  youth  are  learning 
principles  of  righteous  conduct  and  are  being  trained  in  the  Gospel  of 
Christ,  preparatory  for  duties  as  citizens  of  the  country,  and  for  their 
service  to  fellowmen,  and  God. 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


A  MESSAGE  OF  JOY 

1  do  not  know  that  I  can  adequately  convey  to  you  a  message 
that  is  in  my  heart  today.  I  have  felt  that  we  have  a  duty,  a  paramount 
duty  to  all  the  world  and  to  the  Church  to  interpret  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  in  a  manner  which  shall  appeal ;  to  reveal  the  joy  of  it. 

Today  is  Good  Friday,  a  day  which  is  set  apart  in  Christendom 
in  memory  of  the  crucifixion  of  the  Savior  of  the  world.  I  have  seen 
several  representations  of  the  personality  of  Christ  portrayed  on  the 
stage,  and  more  recently  portrayed  on  -  the  moving  picture  screen. 
I  cannot  remember  that  in  all  these  representations  I  have  ever  seen 
the  Christ  made  to  appear  happy.  I  have  seldom  if  ever  seen  him 
appear  to  smile.  All  of  the  representations  have  brought  a  message 
of  gloom,  sadness  and  final  death.  It  may  be  that  certain  good  is 
accomplished  by  such  representations.  I  take  it  that  it  is  desirable  that 
we  should  remember  the  sufferings  of  our  Lord  and  Savior.  We  are 
called  upon  by  the  Lord  himself  to  commemorate  his  broken  flesh  and 
his  spilled  blood.  His  remarkable,  incomparable  sacrifice  should  never 
leave  our  minds,  for  it  is  by  and  through  that  sacrifice  that  he  did 
become  our  Savior  and  our  Redeemer.  Yet  at  the  same  time  I  do  not 
look  upon  the  Savior  of  the  world  as  a  man  of  gloom,  nor  do  I  regard 
the  Gospel  he  gave  to  the  world  as  one  of  despair,  or  one  which  is 
intended  to  kill  the  joy  in  humanity. 

All  the  natural  world  bids  us  have  joy.  The  flowers  that  bloom, 
the  sweet  perfumes  that  greet  our  senses,  the  colors  that  enliven  our 
environment,  are  all  calculated  to  bring  to  us  joy,  to  enliven  us  with 
a  sense  of  beauty,  richness  and  fulness  of  life. 

Christ  did  not  come  to  take  the  color  out  of  life,  and  I  attribute 
the  large  measure  of  indifference  to  his  word,  indeed  the  resistance 
which  is  set  up  against  it,  in  no  small  part  to  the  erroneous  interpre- 
tation of  his  cause,  of  his  life  and  his  service  under  which  the  world 
has  suffered  for  centuries  of  time. 

"Men  are  that  they  may  have  joy."  It  is  as  natural  to  long  for 
joy  as  it  is  to  live,  and  it  would  be  a  perversion  of  the  fundamental 
philosophy  of  things  if  religion  were  to  be  interpreted  as  an  imposition 
upon  life,  to  take  out  its  joy  and  its  gladness. 

PRINCIPLES  OF  GOSPEL  A  STABILIZING  FORCE 

I  am  thinking  of  the  host  of  young,  of  these  armies  of  Boy  Scouts 
of  whom  we'  have  just  learned.  I  am  thinking  of  their  attitude  and 
I  am  delighted  that  the  Doctor  reminded  us  that  the  program  which 
the  Boy  Scouts'  organization  provides  for  these  young  men  is  of 
temporary  and  partial  character  only.  These  young  men,  a  million 
strong,  need  something  to  stabilize  their  lives.  They  need  a  force  to 
guide  and  direct  them.  They  need  to  realize  the  richness  and  the  beauty 
of  life,  not  only  during  their  youth  but  all  through  their  maturity,  and 
we  hold  out  to  the  world  blessed,  beautiful,  cheerful  life-giving  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  of  Christ  to  supply  that  vital  need.   It  is  incumbent 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


31 


upon  those  who  teach  the  youth  to  interpret  the  Gospel  for  them  in 
such  terms  that  they  may  see  its  joys,  its  encouragements. 

PROVISION    FOR    IMPROVEMENT   AND  PROGRESSION 

Every  man  loves  to  improve.  Progression  is  the  very  law  of  life 
itself.  The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  interpreted  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  is  the  embodiment  of  eternal  progression.  Improvement 
is  constantly  advocated  and  provision  for  it  is  made.  Men  seek  today 
to  improve  their  temporal  condition.  It  is  a  day  when  men  have  been 
able  to  harness  the  forces  of  nature,  and  by  the  inventions  which 
have  been  devised  more  liberally  enjoy  the  resources  of  nature  than 
ever  before. 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  in  no  sense  incompatible  with  such 
important  improvements.  It  recognizes  the  intelligence  in  man.  It 
seeks  through  education  to  develop  that  intelligence,  to  expound  the 
principles  of  life,  to  investigate  and  understand  the  secrets  which 
nature  and  the  universe  hold. 

MATERIAL  PROSPERITY   NOT  CONDEMNED 

Material  prosperity  is  not  repugnant  to  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel. 
Indeed  it  is  regarded  as  being  an  accomplishment  worth  while  to  be 
able  to  so  accumulate  or  organize  an  industry  or  enterprise  as  to 
improve  the  conditions  under  which  people  live.  It  is  selfishness  and 
■personal  aggrandizement  at  which  the  Gospel  directs  its  injunctions. 
But  when  one  who  has  the  true  spirit  of  the  gospel  at  heart,  one  who 
has  consecrated  himself  to  the  service  of  God  and  his  fellowmen,  has 
been  able  to  acquire  property  or  to  organize  materials  or  forces  for 
the  improvement  of  conditions,  he  in  no  sense  comes  under  con- 
demnation. The  spirit  of  consecration,  devotion  to  the  cause,  to 
altruistic  interests,  is  of  the  very  genius  of  the  Gospel. 

JOY  THROUGH  SACRIFICE  AND  SERVICE 

When  Christ  said  to  his  disciples  that  they  should  take  up  the 
cross  and  follow  him,  I  have  never  interpreted  that  to  mean  that  they 
were  to  load  upon  themselves  gloom  and  despair.  He  said,  "I  am  come 
that  ye  may  have  life,  and  have  it  more  abundantly."  He  engaged 
his  disciples  to  disseminate  the  glad  tidings  of  great  joy  which  he 
taught.  It  is  true  that  he  made  sacrifice,  it  is  true  that  his  life  was 
filled  with  many  wrongs  to  him,  and  that  he  suffered  inexplicably,  and 
yet  I  cannot  but  think  that  in  all  his  sufferings,  indeed  even  in  the 
giving  of  his  life  he  experienced  a  joy  that  transcends  the  compre- 
hension of  the  finite  mind.  He  knew  of  the  vitality  of  the  work  which 
he  did.  He  knew  he  was  the  Savior  of  mankind.  He  knew  of  the 
beneficent  results  that  would  follow  his  supreme  sacrifice,  and  that 
knowledge  could  not  have  failed  to  transport  him  with  a  joy  that  no 
one  can  fully  appreciate  and  realize.  The  joy  of  service,  the  joy  of 
spreading  his  great  work,  is  the  only  comparable  joy  that  we  may  have. 

I  want  the  youth  of  Zion,  as  well  as  the  youth  of  all  people,  to 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


know  that  to  believe  in  Christ  and  to  live  his  gospel  is  to  bring  the 
supreme  joy  and  happiness  into  their  lives.  There  is  no  other  royal 
road  to  the  happiness  of  mankind  excepting  the  path  which  Jesus  set. 

OUR  OBLIGATION 

And  so,  my  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  Church,  having  these 
wonderful  interpretations  of  the  life  of  Christ  and  of  the  purpose  of 
his  ministry  given  to  us  by  the  Prophet  of  the  latter  days,  it  becomes 
incumbent  upon  us  to  so  live  and  so  teach  that  the  world  will  long 
for  the  gospel  of  Christ  as  it  longs  today  for  pleasure  and  the  grati- 
fication of  appetite. 

"How  beautiful  upon  the  mountains  are  the  feet  of  them  that  bring 
glad  tidings  of  great  joy!"  These  glad  tidings  are  entrusted  to  us  to 
give  to  the  world,  and  to  give  to  our  youth.  I  pray  God  that  we  may 
have  the  vision,  the  strength,  and  the  love  to  give  them  faithfully,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

There  has  been,  this  afternoon,  a  very  great  and  deserving  com- 
pliment paid  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  for  its 
work  with  the  boys  of  the  Church  as  they  have  become  associated  with 
the  Boy  Scout  movement. 

PRACTICAL  VALUE  OF  SCOUTING 

I  believe  in  Boy  Scouting.  It  has  come  into  my  home.  The  past 
few  days  my  seventeen-year-old  boy  has  been  attending  a  Scout  pow- 
wow that  has  been  conducted  at  the  University  of  Utah.  This  after- 
noon, as  I  was  about  to  leave  for  meeting,  my  boy  sat  at  the  table 
working  with  his  papers.  I  suggested  that  T  should  be  pleased  if  he 
felt  like  coming  to  conference  with  me.  He  said,  "Father,  I  am  work- 
ing on  these  merit  badges.  I  do  not  see  how  I  can  very  well  leave 
them."  And  realizing  that  this  was  a  consummation  of  what  he  had 
been  working  on  during  the  past  three  days,  I  felt  to  excuse  him.  This 
boy  has  earned  and  obtained  seventy  merit  badges.  He  is  not  satisfied 
yet. 

One  evening  as  we  sat  in  our  home,  one  of  my  sons-in-law,  who 
has  had  much  experience  in  the  handling  of  cattle  and  horses  said 
he  would  like  to  know  what  my  son  had  to  learn  in  order  to  obtain 
a  merit  badge  for  horsemanship.  So  the  boy  proceeded  to  tell  him,  and, 
when  he  was  through,  my  son-in-law  remarked  that  he  had  been  with 
horses  and  cattle  all  his  life,  but  that  he  had  just  heard  things  about 
horsemanship  that  he  had  never  known  before. 

I  have  thought  that  what  is  required  to  obtain  the  merit  badges 
presented  by  the  Boy  Scout  organization,  would  make  a  splendid  junior- 
college  course,  and  I  know  that  the  influence  of  the  organization  is 
wholesome  and  good.  T  believe  that  if  our  boys  were  to  become  good 
Scouts,  they  would  be  better  deacons,  teachers,  and  priests  and  better 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


33 


Church  members;  so  I  desire  to  lend  my  influence  to  the  Scout  move- 
ment. 

GOD  TO  RAISE  UP  A  MAN  WHOSE  NAME  WAS  JOSEPH 

The  beautiful  tenor  solo  that  'was  rendered  here  this  afternoon 
impressed  me  very  much.  The  prediction  made  by  Joseph  who  was  sold 
into  Egypt,  looking  down  through  the  vista  of  time,  and  seeing  that  a 
man  of  God  would  be  raised  up  for  the  accomplishment  of  a  mighty 
work  in  the  last  days,  contained  a  very  specific  declaration,  to  the 
effect  that  as  his  own  name  was  Joseph,  so  should  be  the  name  of  this 
individual  whom  the  Lord  would  raise  up,  and  not  only  that,  but  that 
the  name  of  this  individual's  father  also  should  be  Joseph.  The  com- 
ing forth  of  Joseph  Smith  as  a  prophet  of  the  last  dispensation  fulfils 
that  prediction  beautifully.  His  coming  forth  and  the  visitation  of 
the  Father  and  the  Son  and  the  message  delivered  to  the  boy,  Joseph, 
in  answer  to  his  earnest  prayer,  were  most  beautifully  presented  in  that 
solo  this  afternoon. 

EVIDENCE  OF  TRUTH  OF  THE  GOSPEL 

As  I  was  thinking  of  these  things,  I  thanked  the  Lord  in  my  heart 
for  the  many  evidences  that  he  has  given  to  us  of  the  truth  of  the 
gospel,  as  it  has  been  revealed  to  us  through  the  instrumentality  of 
Joseph  Smith.  And  I  said  to  myself,  I  know  that  this  is  God's  work, 
1  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  I  can  prove 
it  to  my  own  entire  satisfaction.  It  does  seem  to  me  that  what  is 
satisfying  to  my  soul,  in  the  way  of  evidence,  should  be  satisfying  to 
the  souls  of  other  men  and  women  who  are  honestly  seeking  for  light 
and  truth. 

WITNESSES  TO  TESTIFY 

It  is  not  unusual  that  witnesses  should  be  raised  up  to  testify  of 
God  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  and  of  the  truth.  We  read  in  Acts, 
first  chapter  and  eighth  verse: 

"But  ye  shall  receive  power,  after  that  the  Holy  Ghost  is  come  upon  you :  and 
ye  shall  be  witnesses  unto  me  both  in  Jerusalem,  and  in  all  Judea,  and  in 
Samaria,  and  unto  the  uttermost  part  of  the  earth." 

With  the  disciples  of  the  Master,  that  was  one  important  part 
of  their  calling,  to  be  witnesses  of  the  Lord.  In  John  twentieth  chap- 
ter and  thirty-first  verse,  in  speaking  of  the  things  which  were  written 
and  preserved  in  the  New  Testament,  we  read : 

"But  these  are  written,  that  ye  might  believe  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son 
of  God;  and  that  believing  ye  might  have  life  through  his  name." 

And  so,  in  this  day  and  time,  the  Lord  has  raised  up  witnesses  for 
him.  His  prophets  are  bis  living  witnesses  and  the  oracles  of  the 
Church.  After  Joseph  Smith  had  received  from  the  angel  Moroni  the 
plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon  has  been  translated,  and  after 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  translation,  the  Lord  provided  witnesses,  and  he  did  this  that  men 
and  women  who  are  seeking  for  light  and  truth  might  be  convinced 
and  that  those  who  believe  not  might  be  left  without  excuse. 

TESTIMONY  OF  BOOK  OF  MORMON  WITNESSES 

You  know  the  nature  of  the  testimony  of  Oliver  Cowdery,  David 
Whitmer  and  Martin  Harris.  They  testify  that  an  angel  of  God  came 
down  from  heaven  and  laid  before  their  eyes,  that  they  beheld  and  saw 
the  plates  and  the  engravings  thereon;  that  they  heard  a  voice  from 
heaven  saying  that  they  had  been  translated  by  the  gift  and  power  of 
God;  and  that  they  were  commanded  to  bear  record  of  that  fact, 
which  they  did. 

Eight  other  witnesses,  reputable  men,  men  of  character,  testified 
that  Joseph  Smith  showed  to  them  the  plates,  which  had  the  appearance 
of  gold,  and  as  many  of  the  leaves  as  he  had  translated  they  handled 
with  their  hands,  and  they  declared  that  the  characters  on  those  plates 
had  the  appearance  of  ancient  work  and  of  curious  workmanship,  and 
they  gave  their  names  to  the  world  as  witnesses  of  these  facts. 

In  the  Book  of  Ether  (Book  of  Mormon),  5th  chapter,  3rd  and 
4th  verses,  we  have  a  declaration,  that  the  Lord  would  raise  up  these 
witnesses,  in  words  like  this : 

"And  unto  three  shall  they  [the  plates]  be  shown  by  the  power  of  God; 
wherefore  they  shall  know  of  a  surety  that  these  things  are  true. 

"And  in  the  mouth  of  three  witnesses  shall  these  things  be  established ;  and 
the  testimony  of  three,  and  this  work,  in  which  shall  be  shown  forth  the 
power  of  God,  and  also  his  word,  of  which  the  Father,  and  the  Son,  and  the 
Holy  Ghost  bear  record — and  all  this  shall  stand  as  a  testimony  against  the  world 
at  the  last  day." 

In  one  of  our  modern  revelations,  as  contained  in  section  20  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said : 

"Therefore,  having  so  great  witnesses,  by  them  shall  the  world  be  judged, 
even  as  many  as  shall  hereafter  come  to  a  knowledge  of  this  work. 

"And  those  who  receive  it  in  faith,  and  work  righteousness,  shall  receive  a 
crown  of  eternal  life ; 

"But  those  who  harden  their  hearts  in  unbelief,  and  reject  it,  it  shall  turn 
to  their  own  condemnation." 

TESTIMONIES  THAT  JOSEPH  SMITH  WAS  A  TRUE  PROPHET 

Applying  a  little  reason  to  these  testimonies,  and  I  am  sure  that 
the  Lord  intends  that  we  should,  I  conclude  that  these  evidences,  these 
testimonies  of  the  three  and  eight  witnesses  to  the  truth  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  are  just  as  strong  testimonies  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet 
of  God  as  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true.  The  Book  of  Mormon 
could  not  be  true,  having  come  through  the  instrumentality  of  Joseph 
Smith,  had  he  not  been  a  prophet  of  God. 

We  may  take  the  test  which  our  Savior  gave  by  which  we  might 
know  a  true  or  false  prophet.    He  said: 

"Ye  shall  know  them  by  their  fruits.  Do  men  gather  grapes  of  thorns, 
or  figs  of  thistles? 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


35 


"Even  so  every  good  tree  bringeth  forth  good  fruit;  but  a  corrupt  tree 
bringeth  forth  evil  fruit. 

"A  good  tree  cannot  bring  forth  evil  fruit,  neither  can  a  corrupt  tree  bring 
forth  good  fruit.    *    *  * 

"Wherefore  by  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them." 

prophet's  STORY  MUST  BE  TRUE 

There  can  be  no  question  about  the  Book  of  Mormon,  as  it  is 
given  us  today,  with  the  fulness  of  the  everlasting  gospel  contained 
therein,  being  the  fruit  of  this  tree,  Joseph  Smith,  in  that  it  was  given 
to. us,  of  the  Lord,  through  him.  Then,  if  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet 
of  God,  the  story  that  he  tells  of  the  visitation  of  the  Father  and  the 
Son  to  him  must  be  true,  and,  being  true,  God  the  Eternal  Father  is  a 
glorified,  immortal  being,  having  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones  and  spirit, 
and  his  Son  like  him.  Joseph  Smith  being  a  prophet,  this  visitation 
being  true,  the  things  that  were  told  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  by  the  Son 
of  God  must  also  be  true — that  there  had  been  a  falling  away.  That 
did  not  mean  that  just  a  few  apostatized  from  the  Church.  It  has 
always  been  that  way ;  in  every  dispensation  there  are  some  that  fall 
away.  There  had  been  a  general  or  universal  apostasy  from  the  truth. 
That  is  the  word  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
and  the  testimony  of  these  witnesses  is  a  testimony  of  that  fact. 

A  FALLING  AWAY  BEFORE  A  RESTORATION 

We  stand  for  a  restoration  of  the  gospel.  But  how  can  there  be 
a  restoration  of  the  gospel  without  there  first  be  a  falling  away?  The 
scriptures  tell  us  that  "known  unto  God  are  all  things,  even  the  end 
from  the  beginning."  They  also  tell  us  that  no  prophecy  of  the  scrip- 
ture is  of  any  private  interpretation,  but  that  the  prophecies  came  not 
in  olden  time,  by  the  will  of  man,  but  that  holy  men  of  God  spoke  as 
they  were  moved  upon  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  That  is  the 
means  of  communication  between  the  heavens  and  the  earth. 

And  again,  we  are  told  that  the  Lord  doeth  no  thing,  but  he 
revealeth  his  secrets  to  his  servants  the  prophets.  And  I  think  we  may 
add  to  that,  no  great  thing  is  done,  affecting  the  human  family,  except 
it  has  been  revealed  to  his  servants  the  prophets.  If  there  was  to  be 
a  universal  falling  away  from  the  truth,  he  would  have  made  it  known 
through  his  prophets.  He  has  done  so,  and  made  it  very  clear.  Many 
scriptural  declarations,  concerning  an  apostate  condition  are  to  be  found 
in  the  Old  and  New  Testaments.  History  tells  us  that  there  has  been 
this  falling  away. 

KEYS  OF  THE  PRIESTHOOD  RESTORED 

The  Lord  has  sent  John,  the  Baptist,  who  died  in  the  primitive 
days,  holding  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  and  the  keys  of  that  Priesthood 
were  conferred  by  him  upon  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery,  with 
authority  also  to  confer  it  upon  others  who  are  wortjiy.  That  was  in 
the  spring  of  1829.  A  little  later,  Peter,  James  and  John,  who  held  the 
keys  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  in  the  primitive  days,  came  and 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


visited  Joseph  and  Oliver  and  conferred  the  keys  of  that  priesthood 
upon  them. 

If  Joseph  Smith  had  not  been  a  prophet  of  God,  these  witnesses 
could  not  have  testified  as  they  did;  he  being  a  prophet  of  God,  what 
he  said  and  what  Oliver  Cowdery  said,  in  regard  to  the  restoring  of 
the  Aaronic  and  Melchizedek  Priesthoods  upon  them,  must  be  true.  It 
happened  just  about  the  time  that  these  witnesses  bore  their  testimony, 
in  the  spring  of  1829.  It  was  on  the  15th  day  of  May  that  John,  the 
Iiaptist,  conferred  the  keys  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood. 

I  say  these  witnesses,  the  like  of  which  no  other  religious  organiza- 
tion can  provide  for  its  comfort  and  conversion,  are  witnesses  of  the 
truth  of  the  restoration  of  the  everlasting  gospel. 

FORESEEING  OF  RESTORATION  PROOF  OF  FALLING  AWAY 

John,  the  Revelator,  as  recorded  in  Revelation,  14th  chapter,  6th 
and  7th  verses,  when  his  vision  was  opened  to  see  the  many  things  that 
were  to  transpire  before  the  great  and  glorious  event  of  the  coming 
of  our  Lord  in  the  last  days,  towards  which  the  eyes  of  all  religionists 
are  directed  today,  said : 

"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting 
gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation,  and 
kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people, 

"Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God,  and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the  hour 
of  his  judgment  is  come:  and  worship  him  that  made  heaven,  and  earth,  and  the 
sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters." 

Would  there  have  been  any  occasion  for  an  angel  to  deliver  the 
everlasting  gospel  to  the  nations  of  the  earth  if  the  gospel,  recognized 
of  the  Lord,  and  the  authority  of  the  Lord  to  administer  the  ordinances 
of  the  gospel  had  been  here?  Reason  answers  that  question  for  us. 
There  would  have  been  no  occasion  for  it. 

John's  vision  completely  fulfilled 

The  visitation  of  the  Angel  Moroni  fulfilled,  at  least  partly,  the 
vision  of  John  upon  Patmos,  when  he  delivered  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  translated, 
containing  the  fulness  of  the  everlasting  gospel  as  taught  by  our  Savior 
to  the  ancient  inhabitants  on  this  continent.  If  there  need  be  any  further 
administration  to  make  a  full  and  complete  fulfilment  of  what  John 
saw,  we  find  it  in  the  visitation  of  John,  the  Baptist,  conferring  the 
keys  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  and  the  visitation  of  Peter,  James  and 
John,  conferring  the  keys  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  conferring  the 
power  and  authority  to  build  up  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God  upon 
the  earth,  to  establish  the  Church  of  Christ,  to  restore  the  gospel,  and 
administer  the  ordinances  unto  the  children  of  men  who  are  prepared 
to  receive  them. 

All  these  and  numerous  other  evidences  come  up  before  us,  prov- 
ing the  truth  of  this  work  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  divinely  in- 
spired man  of  God,  a  prophet  in  very  deed. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


37 


NOT  ALL  ACCOMPLISHED  AT  ONCE 

And  now,  carrying  the  thought  just  a  little  further,  if  I  may,  all 
that  we  see  in  this  mighty  work  of  God,  the  admiration  of  the  world, 
because  of  the  beauty  and  perfection  of  its  organization,  the  efficiency 
of  its  workings — have  not  been  accomplished  in  the  days  of  Joseph 
Smith.  Only  one  of  these  great  auxiliary  associations  of  the  Church 
had  been  organized  in  his  day,  but  they  have  been  organized  since,  under 
the  leadership  of  those  who  have  succeeded  to  the  presidency  of  this 
Church.  These  great  auxiliary  associations,  our  Church  school  system, 
our  seminaries,  these  stakes  of  Zion  throughout  the  valleys  of  the  moun- 
tains, ninety-nine  in  number,  and  a  thousand  wards  and  branches,  are 
evidences  to  me,  conclusive  and  convincing,  that  those  who  have  suc- 
ceeded to  the  Presidency  of  this  Church  have  been  recognized  of  the 
Lord.  His  power  has  been  with  them  in  administration,  and  those 
who  have  been  associated  with  them,  and  this  work  has  grown  and 
prospered  until  it  has  arrived  at  its  present  condition. 

HEBER  J.  GRANT  A  PROPHET  OF  GOD 

I  know  that  Heber  J.  Grant  is  an  inspired  man  of  God,  the  right 
man  at  the  head  of  this  work,  a  prophet,  seer  and  revelator,  just  as  well 
as  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God.  I  uphold  and 
sustain  him  as  such.  This  people  do  also.  Were  it  not  so,  he  could 
not  accomplish  the  work  the  Lord  has  for  him  to  accomplish,  and  that 
which  he  is  accomplishing  with  the  means  that  the  Lord  has  given  him. 
So  that  I  know  that  we  are  the  people  of  God,  that  this  is  the  Church  of 
Christ,  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  and  I  do  know  that  it  will  go- 
on to  triumph.  The  truth  will,  ultimately,  prevail  throughout  this 
world,  and  the  purposes  of  our  Father  in  heaven  will  be  consummated, 
his  Son  will  come  to  reign  over  this  his  kingdom,  as  King  of  kings  and 
Lord  of  lords,  forever  and  ever. 

This  is  my  testimony ;  I  bear  it  unto  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Do  what  is  right." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Commissioner  of  Education 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  This  is  the  first  time  in  my  life  thai 
I  have  been  called  without  previous  notice,  to  this  position.  T  do  not 
know  what  I  can  say.  I  came  today  wholly  in  a  receptive  attitude. 
Perhaps  I  can  do  no  better  than  to  give  you  a  confession  of  my  faith. 

I  believe  that  I  have  been  called  to  the  finest  and  the  best  edu- 
cational position  in  America.  I  think  that  for  two  reasons  primarily. 
One  because  of  the  character  of  the  people  with  whom  I  have  been 
brought  in  contact,  and  the  other,  because  of  the  nature  of  the  work 
itself.  j  i 

Bishop  Cannon  this  morning  spoke  of  the  quality  of  selfishness 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  was  dominant  in  the  lives  and  conduct  of  many  people.  May  I 
say  that  I  have  learned  that  the  people  with  whom  I  labor  are  devoid 
of  that  quality.  Without  a  single  exception  every  individual  with 
whom  I  have  been  brought  into  contact  has  looked  at  our  problems 
from  the  standpoint  of  what  is  best  for  the  whole.  I  have  talked  with 
ambitious  college  presidents,  with  ambitious  teachers,  with  ambitious 
chairmen  of  boards,  with  respect  to  their  problems.  Without  a  single 
exception  they  have  said  that  what  is  best  for  the  whole  is  what  we 
will  cheerfully  accept.    That  spirit  makes  the  work  extremely  pleasant. 

Again  may  I  say  that  I  believe  there  is  no  kind  of  education  in 
the  world  that  is  so  fine  and  so  elevating  and  so  good  and  so  im- 
portant as  religious  education.  And  I  believe  that  nowhere  in  the  world 
is  there  a  system  of  religions  education  that  is  equal  in  its  quality,  in 
its  thoroughness  and  in  its  comprehensiveness  to  the  system  of  educa- 
tion that  is  being  undertaken  in  this  Church.  The  time  will  come,  I 
verily  believe,  and  before  very  many  years,  when  week-day  religious 
education  will  be  offered  to  every  high  school  boy  and  girl,  to  every 
college  and  university  boy  and  girl  in  this  Church. 

The  seminary  movement  is  progressing  rapidly.  It  is  doing  an 
extremely  good  work.  We  have  recently  received  testimonials  from 
all  of  the  school  superintendents  in  the  districts  where  we  have  either 
schools  or  seminaries  located,  testifying  to  the  value  of  this  work. 
They  have  used  such  expressions  as  these,  when  speaking  of  the 
nature  of  that  work : 

"Most  highly  satisfactory." 

"Exerting  the  highest  moral  and  ethical  influence." 

"It  is  the  finest  thing  that  has  come  to  this  school." 

You  understand  of  course  .that  in  all  of  our  system  of  education 
we  are  not  trying  to  get  into,  we  are  not  trying  to  dominate,  we  are 
not  trying  to  influence  improperly,  we  are  not  trying  to  interfere 
in  any  way  with  the  public  school  system  of  education.  All  that  we 
are  asking  is  that  the  members  of  the  Church  may  voluntarily  go 
during  school  hours  into  our  buildings,  and  our  own  property,  and 
receive  religious  education.  And  this  religious  education  was  given 
daily  last  year,  as  President  Grant  announced  this  morning,  to  more 
tban  14,000  who  were  in  daily  attendance  at  high  schools  and  colleges. 
This  year  more  than  15,000  high  school  and  college  students  arc 
attending  week-day  religion  classes. 

With  respect  to  my  faith  in  this  work  may  I  say  that  long  years 
ago,  before  ever  I  left  my  home  for  collegiate  training,  I  received  a 
testimony  of  the  existence  of  a  divine  power,  who  could  reveal  him- 
self to  men.  And  so  in  all  of  my  life  since  that  time  I  have  never 
once  doubted  the  existence  of  such  a  power,  of  a  revelator  who  can 
give  knowledge  to  an  individual,  and  who  can  hear  and  answer  prayers. 

In  my  boyhood  days,  for  seven  long  years,  I  prayed  daily  for 
certain  knowledge,  for  a  certain  blessing.  Once  during  that  time  I 
was  greatly  encouraged  by  attending  an  evening  entertainment  in 
which  a  group  of  young  people  sang,  "Keep  on  asking;  God  will 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


39 


answer  by  and  by."  I  kept  on  praying.  And  finally  when  the  answer 
came  I  did  not  know  that  shortly  I  was  to  leave  my  home  for  ten 
years  of  college  and  university  work.  Hence  I  did  not  know  the 
significance  at  that  time  of  the  message  that  came  to  me,  of  how  it 
would  stabilize  me  in  my  faith  in  the  years  immediately  before  me. 
One  night  between  the  hours  of  ten  and  eleven  o'clock,  after  a  hard 
day's  work,  there  came  to  me  a  revelation  from  on  high  that  was  most 
glorious  in  its  nature,  that  has  been  from  that  moment  to  this  an 
absolute  testimony  to  me  of  the  existence  of  a  higher  power,  of  the 
existence  of  a  God  who  will  hear  and  answer  the  prayers  of  a  humble 
farmer  boy.  Further,  since  that  time  I  have  had  two  critical  periods 
in  my  life,  when  I  did  not  know  how  to  turn,  and  there  came  to  me 
at  each  of  those  times  a  revelation  from  on  high  that  directed  me, 
that  told  me  what  was  to  come  to  pass,  and  how  I  should  perform. 

And  so  I  care  not,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  what  the  philosophy 
of  men  may  be,  how  they  may  question  the  existence  of  divinity,  how 
they  may  question  the  existence  and  power  of  a  being  who  will  hear 
and  answer  prayers,  and  will  direct  in  the  affairs  of  men.  I  know 
of  my  own  self  that  God  lives,  that  he  does  reveal  himself  to  men, 
that  he  does  direct  men.  And  so  I  have  such  confidence  in  God,  I 
have  such  confidence  in  this  as  being  his  divine  work,  that  I  stand 
ready  to  welcome  investigators,  research  workers  and  truth  seekers 
in  every  field  of  human  thought  and  human  endeavor,  feeling  assured, 
independent  of  what  they  may  say  or  what  their  explanations  may  be. 
if  they  find  truth  in  any  field  of  endeavor  whatsoever,  that  truth 
will  be  in  harmony  with  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  we  understand 
it.  And  so  I  feel  that  there  is  absolutely  no  reason  for  us  to  be  afraid 
that  our  young  people,  if  they  are  rightly  led  and  taught  in  gospel 
truths,  can  ever  be  won  away  into  infidelity  by  anything  that  men  may 
teach  that  is  contrary  to  the  truth,  because  all  truth  is  in  harmony 
with  truth. 

In  my  early  boyhood  I  learned  this  couplet : 

"Truth  is  truth  wherever  found, 
On  heathen  or  on  Christian  ground." 

And  I  believe  it  thoroughly. 

To  me  there  stands  today  at  the  head  of  this  Church  in  President 
Heber  J.  Grant,  the  personal  representative  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  there  sits  surrounding  him  today  men  who  have  been  called  as 
special  witnesses  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  And  I  want  to  testify  to 
you  that  I  do  know  of  my  own  self  through  revelation  that  has  come 
to  me,  that  these  men  are  what  they  claim  to  be,  and  that  this  Church  is 
what  it  claims  to  be,  and  that  if  we  are  true  to  our  professions ;  if 
we  are  true  to  ourselves,  we  shall  eventually  attain  to  the  goal  for 
which  we  have  started  out. 

May  the  Lord  give  us  strength  and  help  us  to  do  this,  I  ask  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


40 


.  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

It  is  the  pure  testimony  of  the  Spirit  that  reaches  the  hearts  of 
the  children  of  men.  As  I  listened  this  morning  to  the  President  of 
the  Church  and  the  other  speakers,  I  recalled  the  words  which  the 
haughty  and  wicked  king  of  Babylon  addressed  to  Daniel,  the  Hebrew 
prophet.   The  king  said  to  him : 

"And  I  have  heard  of  thee,  that  thou  canst  make  interpretations,  and  dissolve 
doubts."     (Daniel  5:16.) 

Could  a  more  eloquent  tribute  be  paid  to  the  prophetic  office  of  a 
man  of  God  than  that?  Is  it  not  wonderful  to  dispel  darkness  and  to 
dissolve  doubt  ?    It  is  the  truth,  as  the  Savior  said,  that  makes  us  free. 

With  all  my  heart  I  believe  that  the  gospel  is  a  dissolver  of  doubt. 
One  of  the  greatest  editors  that  this  country  has  ever  produced  lost 
his  boy,  five  years  old,  by  death.  Friends  endeavored  to  console  him 
in  this  great  bereavement.   The  man  of  letters  said  : 

"Now,  all  that  deeply  concerns  me  is  the  evidence  that  we  shall  live  here- 
after, and  especially  that  we  shall  live  with  and  know  those  we  loved  here, 
(f  T  felt  sure  on  the  point  of  identifying  and  being  with  our  loved  ones  in  the 
world  to  come,"  etc. 

The  gospel  answers  this  question.    The  Apostle  Paul  said : 

"But  is  now  made  manifest  by  the  appearing  of  our  Savior  Jesus  Christ, 
who  hath  abolished  death,  and  hath  brought  life  and  immortality  to  light  through 
the  Gospel."    (2  Timothy  1  :10.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the  founder  of  this  Church,  through 
the  will  of  God,  was  given  a  most  comprehensive  and  inspired  defi- 
nition of  truth. 

"And  truth  is  knowledge  of  things  as  they  are,  and  as  they  were,  and  as  they 
are  to  come."    (Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Sec.  93:24.) 

This  choice  seer  "gazed  on  the  past,  the  future,  too,  and  opened 
the  heavenly  worlds  to  view." 

This  religion  of  which  I  am  proud,  this  religion  designated  by  the 
world  as  "Mormonism,"  brings  the  consolation  of  divine  comfort  to 
the  hearts  of  stricken  parents,  that  their  babies  laid  away  in  death,  their 
youth  who  have  been  called  to  the  other  side,  shall  be  restored  to  them 
in  the  resurrection,  and  that  parents  shall  have  the  joy  of  rearing  in- 
fant children,  in  the  resurrection,  to  manhood  and  to  womanhood,  for 
"God  will  finish  what  he  hath  begun." 

"Mormonism"  dissolves  doubt  as  to  the  origin  of  man.  We  believe 
in  the  immortal  origin  of  men  and  women :  that  God  is  the  Father  of 
our  spirits — that  we  had  a  royal  ancestry.  And  the  Latter-day  Saint, 
whose  path  is  lighted  by  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  will 
never  say  to  the  Almighty,  as  he  said  some  people  would  say:  "Thou 
formed  me  not."  No,  "Mormonism"  gives  the  answer,  vouchsafed 
to  us  in  holy  writ  and  modern  and  ancient  revelation,  that  the  Almighty 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


41 


is  the  Father  of  our  spirits,  that  we  lived  as  individuals  in  spiritual 
form  before  we  came  to  this  earth. 

Another  thing:  "Mormonism"  dissolves  any  and  every  doubt 
concerning  the  divinity  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  The  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, which  is  another  witness  for  God,  testifies  (and  that  is  one  of 
the  main  purposes  for  which  it  was  written)  that  Jesus  is  the  Son  of 
God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  the  Savior  of  mankind;  that 
he  redeemed  us  from  death,  and  brought  to  light  life  and  immortality, 
through  obedience  to  the  gospel.  This  is  the  testimony  that  we  bear  to 
the  world.  Our  doubts  have  been  dissolved  by  the  gospel ;  and, 
instead  of  doubt  and  uncertainty,  the  light,  the  testimony  of  the 
I  loly  Ghost,  the  power  that  guides  into  all  truth,  fills  our  hearts,  and 
we  can  say,  with  Job,  "I  know  that  my  Redeemer  liveth,  and  that  he 
shall  stand  at  the  latter  day  upon  the  earth." 

Thank  God  for  the  gospel.  Thank  God  for  the  Holy  Ghost. 
Thank  God  for  the  inspired  prophets,  seers  and  revelators  who,  by  their 
ministry  and  the  word  of  life,  have  dissolved  all  doubts  and  dispelled 
the  clouds  of  darkness. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God ;  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  his  prophet,  and  that  he,  like  Daniel,  was  a  di.ssolver 
of  doubts,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  have  received  a  number  of  telegrams  and  letters  from  various 
presidents  of  stakes  and  others,  explaining  the  impossibility  of  their 
being  at  this  conference. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  General  Authorities  and  Officers,  and  General  Aux- 
iliary Officers,  who  were  voted  upon  and  unanimously  sustained  as 
follows : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthony  W.  Ivins,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Charles  W.  Nibley,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Joseph  Melding  Smith 

Reed  Smoot  James  E.  Talmage 

George  Albert  Smith  Stephen  L.  Richards 

George  F.  Richards  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

David  O.  McKay  John  A.  Widtsoe 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDING  PATRIARCH 

Hyrum  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and 
the  Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Brigham  H.  Roberts 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Charles  H.  Hart 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Levi  Edgar  Young 

Joseph  W.  McMurrin  Key  L.  Pratt. 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  O.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants :  Andrew 
Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  William  Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 

CHURCH  HOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Anthony  W.  Ivins  David  O.  McKay 

Charles  W.  Nibley  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Willard  Young  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Rudger  Clawson  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Joseph  F.  Merrill 
Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

SUPERINTENDENT  OF  CHURCH  SCHOOLS 

Joseph  F.  Merrill 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp  John  C.  Cutler 

Peter  G.  Johnston 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor  B.  Cecil  Gates,  Asst.  Conductor 

George  C.  Smith,  Secretary 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.  Kimball  Alexander  Schreiner 

Tracy  Y.  Cannon  Frank  W.  Asper 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH  43 


CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Joseph  Anderson 
GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Clarissa  S.  Williams,  President 
Jennie  B.  Knight,  First  Counselor 
Louise  Y.  Robison,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

David  O.  McKay,  General  Superintendent 
Stephen  L.  Richards,  1st  Asst.  Gen'l  Supt. 
George  D.  Pyper,  2nd  Asst.  Gen'l  Supt. 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Albert  Smith,  General  Superintendent 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  LADIES'  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Martha  H.  Tingey,  President 
Ruth  May  Fox,  First  Counselor 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  President 
Sadie  G.  Pack,  First  Counselor 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

The  congregation  sang,  "O  say  what  is  truth." 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  A.  E.  Palmer,  president 
of  the  Lethbridge  stake. 

The  Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock,  Saturday,  April  7,  1928. 


/ 


SECOND  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

At  10  o'clock  Saturday  .morning,  April  7,  1928,  the  conference 
reconvened  in  the  tabernacle. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Come,  come  ye  saints." 
Invocation  was  offered  by  Elder  Walter  K.  Barton,  president  of 
the  Franklin  stake  of  Zion. 

A  solo,  "He  that  dwelleth,"  was  sung  by  James  E.  Haslam. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Among  the  wonderful  inventions  of  our  day  is  that  of  the  amplifier 
and  the  radio.  This  morning  I  am  grateful  that  I  have  the  assistance 
of  this  device  in  speaking  to  you  in  this  great  building. 

Yesterday  we  had  as  visitors  men  from  afar,  one  of  whom  addressed 
us,  calling  attention  to  our  particular  position  in  the  world  of  Scouting. 
His  remarks  reminded  me  of  an  experience  I  had  recently,  at  least  it  is 
not  many  months  ago,  while  in  San  Francisco  attending  a  regional 
meeting  of  the  Scout  organization.  We  had  spent  the  day  in  session. 
At  the  close  of  the  meeting,  when  it  was  ready  to  adjourn,  I  asked 
the  chairman  for  permission  to  say  a  few  words  on  the  Latter-day 
Saint  plan  of  taking  care  of  boys.  My  request  was  cheerfully  granted. 
I  asked  those  who  were  present,  first,  if  they  would  pay  attention  to 
what  I  had  to  say,  with  the  thought  that  they  might  add  to  our  program, 
and  give  us  the  benefit  of  their  thinking,  because  they  were  all  experts 
in  taking  care  of  boys. 

THE  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  PLAN 

I  said  first  of  all,  we  have  a  fathers'  and  sons'  outing  manual.  1 
had  it  in  my  hand.  This  is  an  invitation  to  the  fathers  and  sons  of  our 
country.  We  have  in  our  Church  ninetyrnine  ecclesiastical  divisions 
known  as  stakes,  and  this  program  is  suggested  for  fathers  and  sons, 
with  the  thought  that  if  they  can  go  out  together  into  the  open  spaces 
and  camp  in  the  mountains  or  plains  of  God's  great  out-of-doors,  and 
become  better  acquainted,  both  fathers  and  sons  will  be  greatly  benefited 
thereby.  I  went  through  the  program,  of  course,  in  a  little  more 
detail  than  I  shall  do  here  today.  I  said:  We  have  a  Junior  Manual. 
This  is  intended  to  inspire  in  the  boys  faith  in  God.  There  is  a  lesson 
for  each  week  during  the  Mutual  Improvement  season,  and  we  feel  it 
is  a  fine  program.  I  called  attention  to  some  of  the  features  of  the 
plan,  some  of  the  experiences  of  our  missionaries  and  early  Scouts,  and 
the  feeling  that  it  would  engender  in  the  heart  of  the  boy  in  appreciation 
of  the  heroism  of  these  individuals. 

I  said:  We  have  an  advanced  Junior  group  in  the  Mutual.  For 
this  group  we  have  a  manual  prepared  to  call  attention  to  the  fact  that 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  45 


courage  is  an  important  thing,  not  only  courage  in  the  face  of  ordinary 
danger,  but  courage  to  do  right  when  evil  is  present.  We  feel  that  at 
this  age  our  boys  should  be  stimulated  with  the  courage  to  do  right. 
Scouting  is  an  important  part  of  the  program  of  these  Junior  groups. 

Our  next  age  is  our  senior  group,  and  we  have  a  manual  prepared 
for  them.  While  men  are  quarreling  about  the  differences  between 
science  and  religion,  we  prepare  a  manual  and  put  it  into  the  hands  of 
our  advanced  adolescent  youth,  calling  attention  to  the  fact  that  there 
is  no  conflict  between  true  science  and  true  religion ;  that  the  truth, 
no  matter  from  what  source  we  derive  it,  all  originates  with  our 
Heavenly  Father.  We  place  a  manual  in  their  hands  that  calls  attention 
to  the  fact  that  instead  of  trying  to  find  a  conflict  between  science  and 
religion  we  do  well  to  understand  them  both,  to  the  end  that  we  will  be 
able  to  harmonize  them. 

While  I  was  talking  I  noticed  several  individuals  in  the  house  nod- 
ding to  one  another,  calling  attention  to  the  fact  that  that  was  a  good 
thought. 

Now,  I  said,  we  have  an  advanced  Senior  group.  For  this  group 
we  have  taken  for  this  year's  study  short  biographies  of  men  who  have 
been  prominent  champions  of  liberty  throughout  the  world,  such  as 
Moses,  Confucius,  Gotama  the  great  Buddha,  Justinian  and  other  phil- 
osophers and  religious  leaders.  Then  we  call  attention  to  the  fact  that 
in  this  group  were  Oliver  Cromwell,  George  Washington,  Joseph  Smith, 
Abraham  Lincoln,  Brigham  Young,  Benito  Juarez,  etc.  In  the  life  of 
each  of  these  men  we  have  found  that  which  we  feel  ought  to  inspire 
men  and  women  with  a  desire  to  do  better  things.  In  addition,  we 
have  our  Mutual  Improvement  Era,  that  is  published  monthly,  contain- 
ing articles  that  are  intended  to  inspire  in  the  growing  young  men  a 
feeling  of  reverence  for  God,  and  a  desire  to  know  of  his  purposes. 

At  the  conclusion  of  my  talk  to  them  I  said :  Now,  gentlemen, 
I  have  told  you  what  we  are  trying  to  do  for  our  boys  in  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  shall  appreciate  it  if  you  will 
now  give  me  your  reaction  and  any  suggestions  for  improving  our 
plan. 

One  of  the  leaders  of  the  group,  without  hesitation,  said:  "Mr. 
Smith,  we  are  at  your  feet."  Another  man  spoke  up  and  said :  "There 
is  no  other  program  like  that,  for  boys,  in  the  world."  The  Superin- 
tendent of  Schools  of  San  Jose.  California,  said  to  me:  "There  is  no 
church  in  all  the  world  doing  for  its  young  people  what  you  are  doing," 
and  he  said,  "It  is  remarkable  to  me  that  we,  in  San  Jose,  work  our 
heads  off  to  put  over  the  Boy  Scout  program  with  the  thought  that  we 
are  doing  the  most  wonderful  thing  in  the  world  for  boys,  and  you 
come  here  and  tell  us  that  that  is  only  a  little  part  of  your  program,  that 
Scouting  is  a  part  of  your  Junior  work."  And  he  said:  "I  want  to 
compliment  you."  There  were  quite  a  number  of  those  present  who 
gave  me  their  cards  and  asked  if  we  would  supply  them  with  our 
manuals  for  this  year. 

I  mention  this  because  only  yesterday  you  heard  from  one  of  the 
chief  Scout  men  of  the  United  States,  the  statement  that  we  lead  in 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Scouting,  that  Utah  and  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  are  in  the  forefront  in  the  world  of  Scouting.  In  the  case  of 
the  people  I  have  mentioned,  their  lives  are  set  on  that  one  department. 

OTHER  DEPARTMENTS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

When  this  man  from  San  Jose  said:  "We  find  that  this  is  only 
a  little  part  of  what  you  are  doing  for  boys,"  I  did  not  enlarge  upon  the 
program  by  saying,  this  is  only  one  of  the  departments  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  start  with  our  Primary 
children,  and  they  are  surrounded  by  the  love  and  tenderness  of  the  best 
women  in  the  world.  Our  children  are  taught  to  pray ;  in  the  organiza- 
tions with  which  they  are  identified  they  are  taught  faith ;  they  are  led 
along  the  pathway  of  constructive  thought.  They  are  carried  on  in  that 
department  until  they  are  twelve  or  fourteen  years  of  age.  I  did  not  tell 
of  our  Sunday  Schools — no  other  Sunday  Schools  in  all  the  world  com- 
pare with  ours.  We  take  our  boys  and  our  girls  in  their  tender  years 
and  lay  a  foundation  for  an  understanding  of  the  Bible,  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  and 
the  history  of  the  Church ;  so  that  when  they  are  old  enough  to  come 
in  contact  with  individuals  in  the  world  they  have  a  fund  of  information 
by  which  they  are  not  only  able  to  defend  their  faith,  but  are  qualified 
to  advocate  their  faith  in  such  a  way  that  others  may  be  inspired  and 
interested  in  it.  Then  we  have  the  Mutual  Improvement  organizations, 
that  have  developed  both  boys  and  girls  to  become  orators,  musicians, 
writers  and  thinkers.  We  have  our  Relief  Society,  the  great  national 
organization,  than  which  there  is  nothing  in  all  the  world  better,  an 
organization  that  contributes,  not  only  to  the  intellectual  and  spiritual 
welfare  of  its  members,  but  also  to  the  desires  in  their  hearts  to  reach 
out  and  benefit  and  bless  those  who  are  in  need,  as  the  name  implies. 
I  did  not  tell  these  men  that  when  our  boys  are  young  they  are  taught 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  ordained  to  the  Priesthood ;  that  as 
Deacons,  as  Teachers  and  as  Priests,  they  are  taught,  while  in  youth ; 
that  as  Elders  they  become  members  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood, 
and  may  be  ordained  Seventies,  and  High  Priests,  going  upward  through 
the  various  ages  of  their  lives.  I  did  not  call  attention  to  the  fact  that 
we  have  our  ward  meetings  where,  once  a  week,  we  are  brought  to- 
gether and  where  we  may  partake  of  the  Sacrament.  I  did  not  call  their 
attention  to  the  fact  that  we  have  our  quarterly  conferences  which 
afford  the  opportunity  for  the  people  to  come  together  in  the  various 
larger  districts,  under  the  influence  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  I  did 
not  tell  them  of  the  great  annual  and  semi-annual  conferences  that  are 
held  in  the  Church,  attracting  people  from  all  parts  of  the  world,  afford- 
ing opportunity  for  the  reuniting  of  families,  the  bringing  together  of 
friends  and  renewing  acquaintanceships — all  these  things,  a  regular 
part  of  the  program  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

OPPORTUNITY  FOR  DEVELOPMENT  AND  GROWTH 

I  haven't  touched  all  the  things  that  are  in  my  mind,  but  I  have 
mentioned  enough  to  call  your  attention  to  what  I  would  like  to  have 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


47 


you  remember,  that  when  our  Heavenly  Father  established  his  Church 
upon  the  earth,  he  established  it  on  such  a  broad  plane  that  there  is 
afforded  in  this  organization,  by  means  of  its  priesthood  and  its  aux- 
iliary organizations,  an  opportunity  for  the  development  of  every  living 
soul,  under  the  influence  of  his  Holy  Spirit.  He  organized  his  Church 
on  so  broad  a  scale  that  all  are  invited  to  search  the  scriptures  and 
understand  them  for  themselves.  On  such  a  scale  we  are  invited  to  go 
into  the  great  schools  and  universities  of  learning  of  the  world,  seeking 
for  the  things  that  the  world  has  been  able  to  uncover  and  explain; 
and  these  all,  as  far  as  they  are  true,  to  become  a  part  of  our  thinking, 
to  be  made  a  part  of  our  lives.  When  we  analyze  these  things  and 
realize  what  God  has  done  for  us,  we  would  be  an  ungrateful  people 
if  in  the  depths  of  our  souls  we  did  not  worship  him  day  by  day,  with 
thanksgiving  in  our  hearts  for  the  mercies  that  are  extended  unto  us. 
No  other  people  in  all  the  world  are  so.  cared  for  and  cultured,  no 
other  people  in  all  the  world  are  so  tenderly  taught  and  so  carefully 
advised  and  counseled  as  are  the  Latter-day  Saints.  And  if  we  will  only 
take  advantage  of  our  opportunities  and  avail  ourselves  of  our  privileges, 
this  Church  will  continue  to  grow  and  spread,  there  will  be  less  oppor- 
tunity for  evil  to  come  into  our  communities ;  we  will  continue  to  be 
a  tower  of  strength  for  righteousness,  as  I  believe  we  now  are  among 
the  people  of  the  world,  not  only  in  keeping  the  ethical  ideals  of  this 
world  before  the  people,  but  also  in  instilling  in  mankind  a  living  faith 
in  our  Heavenly  Father,  which  is  at  the  foundation  of  all  real  progress 
and  all  that  is  really  worth  while. 

A  NEW  PLAN 

I  am  grateful  for  my  standing  in  this  Church.  I  am  thankful  to 
be  associated  with  my  brethren  and  sisters  in  a  department  of  service. 
And  now  today,  inasmuch  as  there  is  a  new  plan  in  operation,  affecting 
the  Priesthood  and  the  Mutual  Improvement  Associations,  following 
upon  that  of  the  Church  Sunday  School,  let  us  all  desire  to  carry  for- 
ward this  mighty  work  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  put  our  shoulders  to  the 
wheel  and  cause  this  department  to  function  for  the  benefit  and  blessing 
of  the  youth  of  Zion,  and  for  the  uplift  of  every  man,  woman  and  child, 
to  the  end  that  each  may  in  due  time  be  found  worthy  of  a  place  in  our 
Father's  celestial  kingdom.  That  we  who  have  part  in  this  glorious 
work  may  rejoice  in  it,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

We  have  had  a  very  excellent  conference  thus  far.  To  me  the 
meetings  have  been  extremely  profitable,  and  I  have  rejoiced  greatly  in 
the  spirit  of  the  conference. 

I  am  reading  now  the  Twelfth  Article  of  Faith  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints: 

ALL  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  LAW 

"We  believe  in  being  subject  to  kings,  presidents,  rulers,  and  magistrates,  in 
obeying,  honoring  and  sustaining  the  law." 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  not  a  mere  platitude ;  it  is  not  a 
formality,  but  it  is  an  article  of  faith  of  the  Church, of  Christ.  Let 
me  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  all  people  in  all  nations  are 
under  a  reign  of  law.  We  cannot  escape  this  conclusion,  we  cannot 
evade  the  fact,  being  upon  the  earth  as  we  are,  mingling  one  with 
another,  we  are  subject  to  law.  The  Lord  has  said  in  one  of  the 
revelations  to  his  Church,  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  (See 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Section  58)  : 

"Let  no  man  break  the  laws  of  the  land,  for  he  that  keepeth  the  laws  of 
God  hath  no  heed  to  break  the  laws  of  the  land." 

That  is  direct  and  emphatic,  and  leads  one  to  the  obvious  con- 
clusion that  the  laws  of  God  are  higher  and  superior  to  the  laws  of 
the  land. 

We  read  in  the  scriptures  that  when  the  wicked  rule  the  people 
mourn,  and  conversely  it  might  be  said  that  when  the  righteous  rule 
the  people  rejoice.  They  rejoice  because  the  righteous  make  righteous 
laws,  and  they  mourn  because  the  wicked  make  wicked  laws.  We  are 
living,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  under  one  of  the  best  and  most  sub- 
stantial governments  in  the  world  today,  if  not  the  best.  It  simply 
results  from  having  the  best  and  most  liberal  laws  of  government. 

T  call  your  attention  to  this  important  truth,  that  people  who 
live  in  far  distant  hamlets  are  under  law ;  that  people  who  live  in  the 
cities  of  the  land  are  subject  to  law,  and  it  follows  if  a  citizen  desires 
to  enjoy  the  privileges  that  belong  to  the  city  in  which  he  resides,  he 
must  yield  obedience  to  the  laws  of  that  city,  and  give  heed  to  its 
ordinances.  If  a  man  wishes  to  enjoy  the  advantages  and  privileges 
of  citizenship  in  this  great  nation  of  ours,  he  must  subject  himself  to 
the  laws  of  the  nation.  You  know  quite  as  well  as  I  do  what  is  said  of 
a  man  who  disregards  law,  who  goes  beyond  and  away  from  it,  who 
appears  to  think  that  that  is  his  privilege.  Well,  the  Lord  has  some- 
thing to  say  about  that,  for  he  spoke  by  revelation  to  Joseph  Smith 
the  Prophet  and  said: 

"And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  which  is  governed  by  law  is  also 
preserved  by  law  and  perfected  and  sanctified  by  the  same. 

"That  which  breaketh  a  law,  and  abideth  not  by  law,  but  seeketh  to  become  a 
law  unto  itself,  and  willeth  to  abide  in  sin,  and  altogether  abideth  in  sin,  canwit 
be  sanctified  by  law,  neither  by  mercy,  justice,  nor  judgment.  Therefore,  they 
must  remain  filthy  still." 

So  a  man  who  ignores  the  law.  who  sets  his  face  as  flint  against  it, 
is  called  an  outlaw,  and  if  he  sets  himself  against  the  Government  in 
which  he  resides  and  of  which  he  is  a  part,  and  violates  the  law  and 
uses  his  influence  against  the  Government,  that  is  designated 
treason.  He  is  treasonable,  he  is  subject  to  the  action  of  this  very 
law  which  he  violates. 

LAWS  OF  GOD  AND  LAWS  OF  MAN 

Now  there  are  two  great  law-givers,  the  one  is  the  Lord  in  heaven. 
He  is  the  supreme  law-giver  of  the  universe.    The  other  is  man  upon 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


49 


the  earth.  The  laws  of  God  are  great  spiritual  and  eternal  laws,  and 
are  given  to  govern  us  in  our  conduct  and  to  protect  us  in  our  future 
prospects.  The  laws  of  the  land  are  of  temporary  character  and 
appertain  to  mortal  life.  However,  if  the  laws  of  the  land  are  good 
laws,  they  have  the  approval  of  the  Almighty.  The  greatest  and  most 
spectacular  revealment  of  law,  if  I  may  use  that  expression,  ever  made, 
was  given  at  Mount  Sinai  when  the  Lord  descended  upon  the  moun- 
tain, and  in  the  midst  of  thundering  and  lightning  and  a  great  smoke 
going  up,  he  gave  the  Ten  Commandments.  It  might  truly  he  said 
that  all  the  righteous  laws  of  man  have  their  origin  in  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments. 

THE  PURPOSE  OF  THE  CONSTITUTION 

The  Lord  had  a  great  purpose  in  view  in  establishing  the  Consti- 
tution of  this  land,  and  doubtless  entertained  very  great  respect  for 
our  pilgrim  fathers,  and  the  early  fathers  of  this  great  nation,  because 
he  has  referred  to  them  in  a  revelation  given  to  his  servant  Joseph 
Smith.  (See  Sec.  101,  Doc.  and  Cov.)  Speaking  of  the  Constitution 
the  Lord  said: 

"According  to  the  laws  and  constitution  of  the  people,  which  I  have  suffererl 
to  be  established,  and  should  be  maintained  for  the  rights  and  protection  of  all 
flesh,  according  to  just  and  holy  principles; 

"That  every  man  may  act  in  doctrine  and  principle  pertaining  to  futurity.  , 
according  to  the  moral  agency  which  I  have  given  unto  him,  that  every  man 
may  be  accountable  for  his  own  sins  in  the  day  of  judgment. 

"Therefore,  it  is  not  right  that  any  man  should  be  in  bondage  one  to  another. 

"And  for  this  purpose  have  I  established  the  Constitution  of  this  land,  by 
the  hands  of  wise  men  whom  I  raised  up  unto  this  very  purpose,  and  redeemed 
the  land  by  the  shedding  of  blood." 

OUR  ATTITUDE  TOWARDS  THE  CONSTITUTION 

Is  it  to  be  wondered  at,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  as  a  people  have  profound  respect  for  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States?  We  believe  that  the  Constitution  was  inspired  of  the 
Lord.  If  other  people  draw  away  or  lose  their  interest,  or  their  faith 
in  the  Constitution  and  the  flag  of  our  country,  the  Latter-day  Saints 
will  be  expected  to  rally  around  it.  We  propose  to  maintain  the 
Constitution  and  all  that  it  stands  for.  Our  children  are  taught  to 
respect  the  flag  and  to  honor  the  law-givers  of  the  nation.  In  Scout 
law,  our  boys  are  taught  to  be  obedient  and  to  honor  the  law,  to  be 
honest,  to  be  truthful,  to  be  upright.  They  do  not  always  have  a 
good  example  set  before  them  by  men  of  influence  and  men  of  power 
in  the  nation,  men  who  have  rightly  earned  the  designation  of  "boot- 
leggers." We  hope  that  the  Scouts  who  are  growing  up  will  be  safe- 
guarded against  the  pernicious  example  of  these  men. 

PROHIBITION  LAW  SHOULD  BE  OBSERVED 

The  law  pertaining  to  prohibition  is  an  expression  of  the  wishes 
of  the  majority  of  the  people  of  the  United  States  of  America.  It 
has  become  a  sacred  law  of  the  land,  and  should  be  so  regarded,  at 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


least  until  it  is  repealed.  So  I  might  add  that  the  voices  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  raised  against  those  who  violate  this  law. 

ALL   KINGDOMS   GOVERNED   BY  LAW 

I  call  your  attention  to  the  fact,  and  to  me  it  is  very  interesting, 
that  the  Lord  is  the  author  of  many  great  and  glorious  laws.  We  are 
told  in  one  revelation  from  on  high  that  all  kingdoms  have  a  law 
given  unto  them. 

"There  are  many  kingdoms;  for  there  is  no  space  in  the  which  there  is  no 
kingdom;  and  there  is  no  kingdom  in  which  there  is  no  space,  either  a  greater 
or  a  lesser  kingdom. 

"And  unto  every  kingdom  is  given  a  law ;  and  unto  every  law  there  are 
certain  bounds  also  and  conditions. 

"All  beings  who  abide  not  in  those  conditions  are  not  justified.    *    *  * 

"And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  he  hath  given  a  law  unto  all  things,  by 
which  they  move  in  their  times  and  their  seasons ; 

"And  their  courses  are  fixed,  even  the  courses  of  the  heavens  and  the  earth, 
which  comprehend  the  earth  and  all  the  planets. 

"And  they  give  light  to  each  other  in  their  times  and  in  their  seasons,  in 
their  minutes,  in  their  hours,  in  their  days,  in  their  weeks,  in  their  months,  in 
their  years — all  these  are  one  year  with  God,  but  not  with  man." 

The  foregoing  quotation  will  be  found  in  Section  88,  Doc.  and  Cov. 

BLESSINGS   PREDICATED   UPON   OBEDIENCE  TO  LAW 

Upon  another  occasion  the  Lord  said  to  his  prophet : 

"For  behold,  I  reveal  unto  you  a  new  and  an  everlasting  covenant;  and  if 
ye  abide  not  that  covenant,  then  are  ye  damned;  for  no  one  can  reject  this 
covenant  and  be  permitted  to  enter  into  my  glory. 

"For  all  who  will  have  a  blessing  at  my  hands  shall  abide  the  la*v  which 
was  appointed  for  that  blessing,  and  the  conditions  thereof,  as  were  instituted 
from  before  the  foundation  of  the  world. 

"And  as  pertaining  to  the  new  and  everlasting  covenant,  it  was  instituted  for 
the  fulness  of  my  glory ;  and  he  that  receiveth  a  fulness  thereof  must  and  shall 
abide  the  law,  or  he  shall  be  damned,  saith  the  Lord  God.  (Doc.  and  Cov.  132, 
verses  4,  5,  6.) 

"There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foundations  of 
this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated — 

"And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God.  it  is  by  obedience  to  that 
law  upon  which  it  is  predicated.''    (Doc.  and  Cov.,  Sec.  130,  verses  20,  21.) 

Now  we  learn  from  this  that  every  blessing  bestowed  upon  men 
is  predicated  upon  law.  I  take  it  there  is  no  exception  to  this  rule. 
Blessings  do  not  come  in  a  haphazard  way,  they  do  not  come  by  chance, 
but  they  come  by  obedience  to  law.  And  if  you  want  a  blessing  you 
must  obey  the  law  upon  which  that  particular  blessing  is  predicated. 
The  blessing  of  salvation  is  predicated  upon  obedience  to  the  New  and 
Everlasting  Covenant,  and  condemnation  is  predicated  upon  its  re- 
jection. 

THE  NEW  AND  EVERLASTING  COVENANT 

Now,  what  is  this  New  and  Everlasting  Covenant  spoken  of? 
We  understand  it  to  be  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  or  the  law  of  the 
gospel.    If  you  desire  salvation,  then  you  must  obey  the  law  of  the 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


51 


gospel.  It  cannot  be  had  in  any  other  way.  Wle  can't  run  and  jump 
into  heaven,  or  drop  down  into  it  from  above,  or  climb  up  into  it  from 
below.  If  you  get  into  heaven,  if  you  would  secure  the  blessings,  joys 
and  privileges  of  heaven,  you  must  obey  the  law  that  governs  in 
heaven.  That  is  good  logic  and  good  reasoning,  and  is  according 
to  revelation. 

BLESSINGS  DERIVED  FROM  PAYMENT  OF  TITHES 

Let  us  make  an  application  or  two :  For  instance,  there  is  the 
law  of  tithing.  It  is  a  law  of  God.  If  you  would  receive  the  bless- 
ing that  goes  with  paying  tithing,  then  you  must  obey  the  law  of 
tithing.  Somebody  might  ask :  "Well,  what  is  the  blessing  that  goes 
with  the  paying  of  tithing?"  The  answer  is  this:  A  great  and  im- 
portant blessing.  We  are  told  in  the  revelation  on  tithing — Doc.  and  Cov., 
Sec.  119 — that  to  them  who  observe  to  keep  this  law  the  land  will  be 
sanctified  and  will  become  a  land  of  Zion;  it  will  not  be  a  land  of 
Zion  to  them  who  reject  the  law  of  tithing. 

BLESSINGS  OBTAINED  THROUGH   OBEYING  THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM 

What  blessing,  if  any,  comes  through  obedience  to  the  Word 
of  Wisdom?  Is  it  worth  while  to  render  obedience  to  this  special 
Word  from  the  Lord?  Certainly  it  is  worth  while.  The  Word  of 
Wisdom  is  often  referred  to  in  our  Church  as  the  law  of  health.  I 
am  sure  if  the  Latter-day  Saints  would  follow  it  strictly  and  carefully, 
they  would  enjoy  the  blessing  of  health  to  a  very  great  extent.  Of 
course  we  naturally  inherit  the  weaknesses  and  imperfections  of  the 
flesh,  that  is  true,  but  generally  speaking,  good  health  and  the  preser- 
vation of  our  bodies  would  result  in  the  main  from  an  observance 
of  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

Still  another  great  blessing  comes  from  observance  of  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  for  the  Lord  said  to  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  that 
"all  Saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking  in 
obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel  and 
marrow  to  their  bones ;  and  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of 
knowledge,  even  hidden  treasures;  and  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and 
shall  walk  and  not  faint.  And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise, 
that  the  destroying  angel  shall  pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel, 
and  not  slay  them." 

DISTINCTION   BETWEEN  DESTROYING  ANGEL  AND  ANGEL  OF  DEATH 

Some  people  might  say,  well,  so  far  as  that  is  concerned,  the 
destroying  angel  slays  everybody  sooner  or  later.  The  answer  is : 
Not  so. 

There  is  a  distinction  between  the  angel,  or  messenger,  of  death 
and  the  destroying  angel.  When  a  righteous  man  dies  the  angel  who 
comes  to  take  charge  of  his  spirit  is  not  a  destroying  angel,  but  rather 
an  angel  of  mercy,  of  peace  and  love,  a  messenger  from  the  Father. 

The  death  of  a  wicked  and  disobedient  man  is  bitter,  and  he  has 
no  promise  that  the  destroying  angel  will  pass  by  him  and  not  slay  him. 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  rejoice  in  the  fact  that  all  men  are  subject  to  law,  both  civil 
and  heavenly  law — the  law  of  the  Gospel  and  the  law  of  the  land. 
We  admonish  Latter-day  Saints  to  cultivate  respect  for  law. 

I  know  that  the  Gospel  is  true,  that  Christ  is  and  was  the  Savior  of 
the  world,  that  Joseph  Smith  the  prophet,  was  a  glorious  character  and 
a  mighty  minister  of  truth.  I  testify  of  these  things  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  wish  to  take  as  the  subject  for  my  sermon  the  first  and  last 
articles  of  our  faith,  written  by  Joseph  Smith. 

"We  believe  in  God  the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  and  in 
the  Holy  Ghost. 

"We  believe  in  being  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in  doing 
good  to  ALL  MEN ;  indeed  we  may  say  that  we  follow  the  admonition  of  Paul — 
We  believe  all  things,  we  hope  all  things,  we  have  endured  many  things,  and  hope 
to  be  able  to  endure  all  things.  If  there  is  anything  virtuous,  lovely,  or  of  good 
report,  or  praiseworthy,  we  seek  after  these  things." 

The  first  and  last  articles  of  faith  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  embody  principles,  large  in  their  concept  of 
life.  These  two  statements  of  religion  deal  with  the  most  important 
problems  of  the  soul,  and  they  solve  in  a  general  way  how  man  may 
enter  into  a  divine  world.  Perhaps  the  majority  of  mankind  is  not 
yet  ready  for  such  a  presentation  of  religion ;  but  it  is  through 
some  such  conception  as  the  thought  of  these  two  statements  that 
mankind  will  grasp  the  meaning  of  life  and  its  ultimate  end.  The 
same  trend  of  thought  that  we  have  today — the  religious  and  the 
scientific — was  developed  in  ancient  times  when  Hebraism  and 
Hellenism  flourished.  This  brought  forth  much  of  the  thought 
expressed  by  the  Prophet  Zechariah,  when  he  wrote  "Thy  Sons,  O 
Zion,  against  thy  Sons,  O  Greece."  The  one  thought  was  the 
selfless  life,  and  its  eternal  belief  in  God ;  the  other  was  the  life 
of  nature  ;  the  pursuit  of  knowledge,  the  establishment  of  great 
truths  by  philosophers  and  men  of  science. 

Such  men  who  believe  in  the  one  true  and  living  God,  the 
eternal  father  of  us  all,  like  Jeremiah,  Isaiah,  and  Zechariah,  estab- 
lished through  their  writings  the  fundamental  truths  of  religion 
and  life.  They  gave  to  the  world  religion,  which  took  the  culture 
of  Greece  and  afterwards  the  power  of  Rome,  and  elevated  and 
inspired  them.  The  Hellenistic  movement  was  that  of  Aristotle 
and  Plato,  and  through  these  men  there  came  into  the  world  a 
struggle  fiercer  than  the  struggle  of  arms ;  for  it  was  a  struggle 
of  ideas,  but  the  words  of  the  prophets  had  a  keener  significance 
for  all  time  to  come  than  had  any  other  thought.  "The  Sons  of 
Zion  were  against  the  Sons  of  Greece."  Israel  and  Greece  stood 
for  the  two  great  forces  that  have  moulded  our  Western  history, 
and  still  dominate  modern  life.    Paul,  the  Apostle  before  the  age 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


53 


of  historical  criticism,  made  the  distinction  so  emphasized  in  our 
day,  between  the  Hebrew  spirit  and  the  Gentile,  particularly  the 
Greek,  when  he  said  that  the  Gentiles  followed  not  after  righteous- 
ness ;  but  that  Israel  did  follow  after  the  law  of  righteousness. 
Beautiful  are  his  words  found  in  the  ninth  chapter  of  Romans. 
History  fully  bears  out  Paul's  contrast  between  the  Jew  and  the 
Greek ;  the  religious  mind  and  the  scientific  mind.  The  Jews  under- 
stood that  God  required  righteousness  as  indispensable  for  life. 
The  law  flashed  out  solemn  warning  to  the  world.  The  sense 
of  sin,  the  need  of  redemption,  the  lawlessness  of  human  nature, 
when  it  is  not  under  subjection  to  the  law  of  God ;  and  these  prin- 
ciples were  all  postulates  of  the  Bible.  Hebraism  stood  out  for 
the  moral  and  religious  principle,  Hellenism  for  the  culture  of  the 
human ;  the  sensitive  love  for  the  beautiful,  and  the  joy  of  living. 

Down  through  the  ages,  faith  in  one  God  was  needed  before 
consistency  in  the  moral  life  of  man  was  possible.  The  world  is 
indebted  to  the  Jews  for  the  moral  law,  not  merely  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments, but  the  idea  of  law  in  general.  The  result  of  this 
moral  advance  was  an  infinite  intellectual  advance,  and  it  brought 
reason  and  order  into  the  world. 

The  idea  of  the  uniformity  of  nature,  which  is  the  first  prin- 
ciple of  science,  was  impossible  until  the  Jewish  mind  swept  away 
Polytheism,  and  through  the  concept  of  law,  saw  the  world  con- 
sistent, with  unbroken  continuity.  In  this  way,  the  Herbraism 
of  the  Jew  and  the  Hellenism  of  the  Greek  came  together." 

So  today  we  have  the  struggle  of  ideas.  There  appear  two 
opposing  methods  of  thought  and  development,  which  we  meet  in 
our  schools  and  universities.  They  reflect  at  times  a  conflict  in 
human  nature.  With  the  thought  of  the  first  and  the  last  articles 
of  our  faith,  certainly  we  make  a  contribution  to  religious  thought 
in  our  day.  We  see  the  simple  acceptance  of  both  sides,  looking 
with  clear  eyes  on  the  whole  situation.  We  accept  the  Hellenistic 
or  scientific  truths  as  given  by  the  master  men  of  science  and 
philosophy.  It  is  the  gospel  of  the  love  for  the  beautiful  and  the 
joy  of  living;  that  man  may  search  out  truth  by  study  and  thought- 
ful work  in  the  world.  Then  on  the  other  hand,  these  two  articles 
implicitly  say  that  all  discord  in  life  is  changed  into  harmony  by 
reconciling  man  to  God.  The  deepest  thought  of  Christ's  teaching 
and  life  is  simple  confidence  in  God,  as  seen  in  the  world  and  in 
human  life.  This  consciousness  of  the  divine  takes  precedence  over 
all  else,  and  becomes  the  great  inspiring  motive,  driving  the  life 
to  noble  ends,  and  assuring  the  spirit  of  man  of  the  highest  realities 
of  life.  This  is  one  of  the  contributions  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  our  Lord,  as  we  Latter-day  Saints  understand  it.  The 
problems  of  life  are  solved  not  by  denying  one  side  or  the  other, 
but  by  carrying  both  sides  to  a  high  point.  As  of  old,  so  today, 
Christianity  reconciles  religion  and  science  by  a  form  of  knowl- 
edge and  ethics,  that  is  made  accessible  to  all  classes,  kindreds, 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


tongues,  and  peoples.  The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  not  a  scheme 
of  culture  or  a  system  of  philosophy;  but  a  Religion,  fulfilling  the 
law  and  the  prophets,  enforcing  the  obligations  of  duty,  and 
pointing  to  the  glory  of  the  Cross.  It  brings  man  into  a  new- 
relationship  to  God.  Its  end  is  not  the  curtailment  of  thought  and 
life,  but  its  enlargement,  so  there  is  room  for  the  development  of 
every  gift  of  heart,  mind,  and  soul.  As  was  indicated  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  the  last  article  of  faith,  the  narrow  lot  of 
man  is  broadened  whenever  he  comes  into  filial  relation  to  God. 
This  enlargement  of  life  through  faith  is  a  fact  of  experience.  Faith 
in  God  enlarges  the  horizon  of  life,  and  leads  to  the  acceptance 
of  all  truth.  All  the  treasures  of  wisdom  and  knowledge  are  opened 
to  the  believing  mind ;  "for  they  are  all  broken  lights  of  God,  in 
whose  light  alone,  we  see  light."   How  forcibly  wrote  Paul  of  old : 

"The  invisible  things  of  Him  from  the  creation  of  the  world 
are  clearly  seen,  being  understood  by  the  things  that  are  made." 

So  we,  Latter-day  Saints,  say  to  the  world:  "Believe  in  God 
the  eternal  Father,  and  in  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Holy 
Ghost,"  for  it  is  Christ  who  gives  us  power  to  become,  and  opens 
up  new  possibilities  of  thought,  feeling,  and  action.  He  asks  for 
obedience,  and  when  we  obey,  we  discover  the  law  of  our  own  life ; 
He  asks  for  service,  and  when  we  serve,  we  discover  perfect  freedom. 
The  love  of  God  in  Christ  unifies  life  for  us;  we  gain  love,  and 
as  our  love  increases,  our  faith  deepens. 

The  message  of  Jesus  then,  as  it  is  now,  was :  "Repent." 
"Prepare  ye  the  way  of  the  Lord."  His  coming  in  that  first  day 
was  a  revolution  in  religious  thought.  He  taught  that  the  soul  of 
man  deals  directly  with  his  God.  Man  must  be  perfect  even  as  our 
Father  in  heaven  is  perfect.  His  life  changed  the  history  of  man- 
kind more  deeply,  more  widely,  and  more  permanently  than  any 
other  from  the  beginning  of  the  world  to  the  present.  It  was  he, 
Christ  Jesus  our  Lord,  who  bestowed  upon  us  the  increasing  con- 
sciousness of  the  immortality  of  spiritual  values. 

So  has  the  message  of  our  Lord  been  revealed  today. 

Jesus  Christ  and  him  crucified  for  the  sins  of  the  world;  the  larger 
faith  that  assures  us  immortality,  are  what  the  world  needs  this  Easter 
day.  He  is  risen.  He  is  our  Savior  and  our  King.  He  lives  and  we  are 
in  the  image  of  the  true  and  living  God,  who  made  the  world  and  all 
things  therein.  And  when  the  sons  of  Greece  are  for  and  not  against 
the  sons  of  Zion;  when  all  ideals  of  culture  shall  find  their  inspiration 
and  nourishment  in  the  divine  ideals  of  Jesus,  the  Redeemer,  then  will 
the  world  march  on  to  perfection. 

When  thought,  and  art,  and  literature,  and  science,  and  knowledge 
and  life  are  brought  into  subjection  to  the  obedience  of  Christ,  then 
shall  we  have  the  true  victory  of  life,  and  we  will  be  able  to  say :  "Thou 
hast  conquered,  O  Galilean." 

Both  trends  of  thought  are  coming  together  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  George  Santayana,  America's  greatest  philosopher  writes  today : 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


55 


"O  world,  thou  choosest  not  the  better  part. 
It  is  not  wisdom  to  be  only  wise, 
And  on  the  inward  vision,  close  the  eyes, 
But  it  is  wisdom  to  believe  the  heart. 
Columbus  found  a  world,  and  had  no  chart 
Save  one  that  faith  deciphered  in  the  skies 
To  trust  the  soul's  invincible  surmise 
Was  all  his  science  and  his  only  art. 
Our  knowledge  is  a  torch  of  smoky  pine 
That  lights  the  pathway  but  one  step  ahead 
Across  a  void  of  mystery  and  dread. 
Bid  then,  the  tender  light  of  faith  to  shine 
By  which  alone  the  mortal  heart  is  led 
Unto  the  thinking  of  the  thought  divine." 

And  so  by  thy  divine  faith,  says  Santayana,  shall  you  find  out 
the  true  knowledge. 

In  our  belief  as  Latter-day  Saints,  Zion  and  Greece  are  brought 
together  today  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  one  of  our  sacred  books. 

The  Doctrine  and  Covenants  contains  the  revelations  of  God  the 
Father  to  Joseph  Smith  and  other  prophets  of  God  in  this  dispensation. 
It  tells  about  the  restoration  of  the  plan  of  God  in  the  salvation  of  the 
human  race.  It  is  largely  ethical  in  its  message,  and,  like  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  makes  public  and  private  righteousness  matters  of  practice. 
The  book  opens  by  telling  of  a  mighty  work  that  is  about  to  be  ushered 
into  the  world.  This  is  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
with  the  giving  to  man  of  the  holy  priesthood  of  God,  the  Aaronic  and 
Melchizedek,  as  it  existed  in  the  days  of  the  prophets  of  Israel  and  at  the 
time  of  Christ.  The  outstanding  truth  of  the  book  is  that  God  is  identi- 
fied as  the  Father  of  the  race,  and  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  restored 
in  this  day  with  all  its  gifts  and  blessings.  It  puts  the  principle  of  right- 
eousness through  obedience  to  the  plan  of  salvation  into  the  foreground; 
and  all  its  teachings  grow  out  of  the  principle  that  for  man  to  attain 
the  highest  development  he  must  place  his  faith  in  God  the  Eternal 
Father,  and  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  receive 
by  divine  authority  the  priesthood  of  God.  It  also  emphasizes  the  im- 
portance of  man's  spiritual  life,  and  his  great  mission  on  earth;  as  well 
as  the  glory  of  immortality  and  the  power  of  eternal  progression  in  the 
hereafter.  Men  are  coming  to  know  beauty  and  truth.  Zion  and  Greece 
are  brought  together.  These  two  articles  of  faith,  the  first  and  the  last, 
written  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  embody  this  great  thought,  and 
that  is  a  distinct  contribution  to  the  truth  and  to  the  religion  of  the  world. 

That  the  Lord  may  help  us  to  see  these  things  and  appreciate  the 
beauty  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  majesty  and  the  grandeur  of 
the  principles  of  eternal  truth  that  have  been  revealed  in  this  day,  I  ask, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "High  on  the  mountain  top." 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 

No  servant  of  the  Lord  should  ever  arise  before  a  congregation 
and  say,  I  have  nothing  upon  my  mind.  A  people  who  have  been  com- 
manded of  God  to  "seek  for  wisdom  out  of  the  best  of  books" — to 
"seek  learning  by  study  and  also  by  faith,"  ought  to  have  something 
upon  their  minds.  I  have  something  upon  my  mind,  but  I  need  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  enable  me  to  bring  it  forth,  in  such  a  way  as  to  feed 
your  souls  with  the  bread  of  life  and  build  you  up  in  the  faith  of  the 
everlasting  gospel.   That  Spirit  I  now  invoke. 

THE  CONFERENCE  KEYNOTE 

The  keynote  of  this  conference,  if  I  heard  it  aright,  was  struck 
by  the  president  of  the  Church  in  his  opening  address  yesterday  morn- 
ing, when  he  referred  to  the  great  and  marvelous  work  in  which  the 
Latter-day  Saints  are  taking  part.   I  wish  to  elaborate  that  theme. 

A  PROPHECY  AND  ITS  FULFILMENT 

It  was  about  seven  hundred  years  before  the  birth  of  the  Savior, 
when  a  prophet  of  God  upon  the  Eastern  hemisphere  predicted  the 
coming  forth  of  "a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder."  The  reason  as- 
signed for  its  coming  was  given  in  the  language  of  the  Lord,  as  follows : 

"Forasmuch  as  this  people  draw  near  me  with  their  mouth,  and  with  their 
lips  do  honor  me,  but  have  removed  their  heart  far  from  me,    *    *  * 

"Therefore,  behold,  I  will  proceed  to  do  a  'marvelous  work  among  this  people, 
even  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder;  for  the  wisdom  of  their  wise  men  shall 
perish,  and  the  understanding  of  their  prudent  men  shall  be  hid." — Isa.  29:13,  14. 

If  you  wish  to  know  when  and  where  this  prophecy  began  to  be 
fulfilled,  follow  me  down  the  ages  to  the  spring  of  the  year  1820,  and 
into  the  rural  districts  of  New  York  State,  where  then  dwelt  a  humble 
family  by  the  name  of  Smith.  One  member  of  that  family  was  a  boy 
between  fourteen  and  fifteen  years  of  age.  Anxious  for  his  soul's 
salvation,  young  Joseph  Smith  went  into  the  woods  near  his  father's 
home,  and  inquired  of  the  Lord  which  of  all  the  churches  then  extant  was 
the  true  Church  of  Christ,  in  order  that  he  might  join  it.  While  praying 
he  was  seized  upon  by  an  evil  power,  which  strove  to  destroy  him ;  but 
he  was  delivered  by  a  vision  of  light,  in  the  midst  of  which  stood  two 
glorious  personages,  one  of  whom,  pointing  to  the  other,  said :  "This 
is  my  beloved  Son — hear  him." 

In  answer  to  his  inquiry  as  to  the  churches,  the  boy  was  told,  to 
his  astonishment,  that  none  of  them  was  the  true  Church  of  Christ,  and 
that  he  must  not  connect  himself  with  any  of  them ;  but  await  the 
coming  of  the  true  Church,  in  the  founding  of  which  he  was  destined  to 
play  an  important  part.  Said  the  Son  of  God,  in  relation  to  the  churches 
then  existing :  "They  draw  near  to  me  with  their  lips,  but  their  hearts 
are  far  from  me;" — thus  linking  together  the  ancient  prophecy  per- 
taining to  the  "marvelous  work  and  wonder"  and  the  work  inaugurated 
by  Joseph  Smith  in  this  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


57 


MARVELS  AND  WONDERS 

And  what  a  wonderful  work  it  is !  What  could  be  more  so?  At  a 
time  when  all  over  the  Christian  world — to  say  nothing  of  the  heathen 
world — it  was  popularly  supposed  that  the  heavens  were  sealed,  and 
the  canon  of  Scripture  full ;  that  visions  and  revelations  had  ceased,  and 
that  angels  no  longer  communicated  with  men — at  that  very  time  the 
heavens  burst,  and  not  only  angels,  but  God  himself  comes  down,  and 
proclaims  to  a  little  fourteen-year-old  boy  the  opening  of  a  new  gospel 
dispensation!    Could  anything  be  more  marvelous? 

Three  years  pass,  and  an  angel  appears  to  Joseph,  giving  his  name 
as  Moroni,  and  stating  that  in  mortal  life  he  was  a  prophet  to  an 
ancient  people  called  Nephites,  the  civilized  ancestors  of  the  present-day 
American  Indians.  Among  other  things  the  youth  was  told  that  a 
record  engraved  upon  gold  plates,  compiled  by  Moroni's  father,  another 
prophet  named  Mormon,  would  be  found  in  a  neighboring  hill,  where 
Moroni  had  concealed  it  centuries  before.  This  record  contained  the 
fulness  of  the  everlasting  gospel,  as  delivered  to  the  Nephites  by  the 
Savior,  who  claimed  them  as  his  "other  sheep" — a  branch  of  the  House 
of  Israel.  (John  10:16;  3  Nephi  15:21.)  That  book,  translated  by 
Joseph  Smith,  reveals  the  wonderful  past  and  the  yet  more  wonderful 
future  of  America,  the  Land  of  Zion,  otherwise  known  as  the  Land  of 
Joseph,  referred  to  by  the  Patriarch  Jacob  when  blessing  his  twelve 
sons  (Gen.  49:22-26),  and  by  the  Prophet  Moses,  in  giving  his  fare- 
well benediction  to  the  tribes  of  Israel  (Deut.  33:13-17.)  America 
is  shown  to  be  the  place  of  the  New  Jerusalem,  a  holy  city  to  be 
built  by  a  gathering  of  scattered  Israel,  prior  to  the  glorious  coming 
of  the  Lord. 

Next  came  John  the  Baptist,  another  angel','  who  conferred  upon 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  authoriz- 
ing them  to  preach  the  gospel  in  its  restored  purity,  and  to  baptize  by 
immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins.  And  this  was  followed  by  a  visita- 
tion from  three  other  heavenly  messengers — namely,  Peter,  James  and 
John,  who  ordained  them  to  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  thus  em- 
powering them  to  bestow  upon  their  baptized  converts  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  By  virtue  of  these  ordinations,  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  organized,  April  6,  1830,  at  Fayette, 
Seneca  county,  New  York.  And  thus  was  fulfilled  Isaiah's  prophecy 
of  the  lifting  up  of  the  Ensign  for  the  gathering  of  scattered  Israel  (  Tsa. 
11  :1 1-16.)  This  movement  was  authorized  by  Moses,  who  as  an  angel 
delivered  to  Joseph  and  Oliver  the  keys  of  the  Gathering;  that  the 
dispersed  of  Judah  and  the  outcasts  of  Israel — including  the  Lost  Tribes 
in  "the  land  of  the  North" — might  assemble  in  fulfilment  of  prophecy 
— the  Jews  to  Palestine,  to  rebuild  the  old  Jerusalem ;  the  other  tribes  to 
America,  where  the  new  Jerusalem  is  to  rise. 

Elias  also  appeared  and  committed  to  Joseph  and  Oliver  "the  dis- 
pensation of  the  gospel  of  Abraham."  These  men  were  descendants  of 
the  great  Hebrew  patriarch,  and  were  to  begin  a  work  having  as  its 
object  the  eternal  welfare  of  Abraham's  posterity.    Then  Elijah  came, 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"to  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children  and  the  children  to  the 
fathers,"  that  the  dead  as  well  as  the  living  might  share  in  the  blessings 
of  the  Final  Dispensation,  wherein,  pursuantly  to  divine  purpose,  all 
things  that  are  Christ's,  both  in  heaven  and  on  earth,  will  be  brought 
together  in  one. 

In  preaching  the  gospel  to  the  world  and  gathering  Israel 
from  the  nations,  the  Latter-day  Saints — children  of  Ephraim — 
are  helping  to  fulfil  the  covenant  made  by  Jehovah  with  Abraham, 
Isaac  and  Jacob :  "In  thee  and  in  thy  seed  shall  all  the  nations  of  the 
earth  be  blessed."  So  runs  the  ancient  promise — fulfilled  by  Jehovah 
himself  in  coming  through  the  lineage  of  those  patriarchs  as  the  Savior 
of  the  world ;  and  further  fulfilled  by  the  dispersion  of  Israel  among 
the  nations,  blessed  by  this  racial  admixture  and  by  the  gathering  that 
has  begun. 

These  are  some  of  the  marvels  connected  with  the  mighty  work 
in  which  we  are  taking  part — the  wonderful  work  of  Almighty  God,  in 
this  the  last  and  greatest  of  the  gospel  dispensations.  What  can  com- 
pare with  it?    Is  there  anything  half  so  wonderful? 

ALMOST  AS  WONDERFUL 

Yes,  there  is  something  almost  as  wonderful — and  that  is,  that  the 
wise  men  of  this  world  do  not  see  in  it  anything  worthy  of  their  special 
care  or  attention.  "Mormonism,"  to  its  devotees,  is  the  most  glorious 
thing  in  existence — the  sublimest  poem  that  was  ever  written,  the  pro- 
foundest  system  of  philosophy  that  the  world  has  ever  known.  But  the 
"wise"  and  "prudent"  pass  it  by  as  a  thing  of  naught,  or  stand  at  a 
distance,  sneering  at  it  and  pelting  it  with  unsavory  epithets.   Why  is  it  ? 

LINCOLN  AND  GREELEY 

Why  couldn't  Abraham  Lincoln,  that  good  and  great  man,  see  in 
"Mormonism"  what  we  see  in  it,  and  what  it  really  is — the  Everlasting 
Gospel?  He  and  Joseph  Smith  lived  almost  within  a  stone's  throw  of 
each  other  in  Illinois.  Why  did  not  the  future  president  recognize  in 
the  prophet  of  God  what  the  Latter-day  Saints  recognize  in  him — the 
most  remarkable  human  being  that  has  walked  this  earth  in  two  thou- 
sand years?  Why  couldn't  Lincoln  see  it?  The  great  emancipator 
was  no  enemy  to  the  "Mormon"  people.  When  asked,  after  his  elec- 
tion as  president,  how  he  intended  to  treat  the  "Mormon"  question — 
which  was  bothering  the  politicians  as  well  as  the  priests — he  answered 
in  his  quaint,  characteristic  way:  "I  intend  to  treat  it  as  a  farmer  on 
the  frontier  would  treat  an  old  water-soaked  elm  log  lying  upon  his 
land — too  heavy  to  move,  too  knotty  to  split,  and  too  wet  to  burn.  I'm 
going  to  plow  round  it."    And  he  did. 

Horace  Greeley,  another  great  character,  the  founder  and  editor 
of  the  New  York  Tribune,  a  man  whose  utterances  were  more  potent 
in  his  day  than  those  of  the  president  of  the  United  States — he  came 
out  to  Utah  in  early  times  when  the  fastest  means  of  travel  between 
the  Missouri  river  and  the  Pacific  Coast,  was  the  ox-team,  the  pack- 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


59 


mule,  or  Ben  Holliday's  stage  line.  Greeley  came  by  stage,  and  on  his 
way  to  California,  tarried  certain  days  in  Salt  Lake  City.  He  had 
repeated  interviews  with  President  Brigham  Young,  and  in  a  book 
afterwards  written  and  published  he  paid  high  compliment  to  the  pio- 
neers and  early  settlers  of  these  mountain  solitudes.  He  didn't  believe 
the  "Mormons"  were  robbers  and  murderers,  as  he  had  been  told,  and 
he  spoke  of  them  as  honest  and  industrious  people.  But  that  was  all. 
Brigham  Young's  views  on  marriage  and  slavery  interested  the  great 
editor,  but  the  "Mormon"  religion  in  its  sublimest  phases  was  a  sealed 
book  to  him.  Why? 

OUTSIDE  AND  INSIDE  AUXILIARIES 

Well,  doubtless  there  were  good  reasons  for  it;  and  I  will  venture 
to  advance  one.  Perhaps  the  Lord  needs  such  men  on  the  outside  of  his 
Church,  to  help  it  along.  They  are  among  its  auxiliaries,  and  can  do 
more  good  for  the  cause  where  the  Lord  has  placed  them,  than  any- 
where else.  And  the  same  is  true  of  the  priesthood  and  its  auxiliaries 
inside  the  Church.  Hence,  some  are  drawn  into  the  fold  and  receive 
a  testimony  of  the  Truth ;  while  others  remain  unconverted — for  the 
present ;  the  beauties  and  glories  of  the  gospel  being  veiled  temporarily 
from  their  view,  for  a  wise  purpose.  The  Lord  will  open  their  eyes 
in  his  own  due  time. 

ISRAEL  AND  THE  GENTILES 

God  is  using  more  than  one  people  for  the  accomplishment  of  his 
great  and  marvelous  work.  The  Latter-day  Saints  cannot  do  it  all. 
It  is  too  vast,  too  arduous,  for  any  one  people.  Our  part  in  it  is  the 
greatest.  We  have  the  gospel  and  the  priesthood,  with  a  mission  to 
gather  Israel,  build  the  New  Jerusalem,  and  prepare  the  way  for  the 
advent  of  the  King  of  kings.  And  this  duty  has  been  laid  upon  us 
because  we  belong  to  the  house  of  Israel.  It  is  the  God  of  Israel  who 
is  coming  to  reign  and  we  are  the  right  people  to  prepare  the  way 
before  him. 

But  we  don't  own  the  steamships  and  the  railroads  and  other  means 
of  rapid  transit  and  communication,  whereby  the  Lord's  people  are 
being  gathered  out  from  the  nations — flying  "upon  the  shoulders  of  the 
Philistines,"  as  Isaiah  predicted.  The  risen  Savior,  when  he  appeared 
to  the  Nephites  and  spoke  of  the  glorious  future,  said  that  the  Gentiles 
would  assist  his  people  in  gathering  to  their  promised  lands.  And  are 
they  not  doing  this?  Is  it  not  the  ships  and  railroads  of  the  Gentiles — ■ 
"the  shoulders  of  the  Philistines" — that  are  bringing  the  children  of 
Ephraim  to  this  Land  of  Joseph,  and  carrying  the  children  of  Judah 
to  their  ancient  homeland — dedicated  for  their  return  by  direction  of 
the  Prophet  of  Ephraim — Joseph  Smith? 

We  have  no  quarrel  with  the  Gentiles.  They  are  our  partners  in 
a  certain  sense.  The  name  Gentile  is  not  with  us  a  term  of  reproach. 
It  comes  from  Gentilis,  meaning,  of  a  nation,  a  family  or  a  people  not 
of  Israel — that  is  all.    "Mormon"  is  a  nickname  for  Latter-day  Saint, 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


but  "Gentile"  is  not  a  nickname.  It  simply  means,  with  us,  one  who 
does  not  belong  to  the  Church.  We  need  the  Gentiles,  and  they  need 
us,  but  they  don't  know  it,  and  we  do.  They  are  wiser  than  we  are 
in  material  things —  the  things  of  Earth  and  Time.  But  when  it  comes 
to  spiritual  things — the  things  of  Heaven  and  Eternity,  we  can  teach 
them.  We  need  their  wealth  and  worldly  wisdom,  their  wonderful 
skill  in  managing  and  manipulating  temporalities.  And  they  need  the 
Gospel  and  the  Priesthood.  They  need  us,  for  we  hold  in  our  hands 
the  Key  to  their  eternal  salvation. 

Again  I  say,  the  Lord's  Work  has  need  of  auxiliaries  outside 
as  well  as  inside,  to  help  it  along.  Because  of  their  worldly  influence 
— which  would  depart  if  they  connected  themselves  with  the  Church — ■ 
many  are  kept  where  they  are,  where  the  Lord  has  placed  them,  and 
can  best  use  them  for  the  good  of  all. 

THE  WISE  AND  PRUDENT 

Many  years  ago  I  had  an  interesting  conversation  with  a  man 
who  was  a  member  of  the  Roman  Catholic  church.  He  was  a  great 
scholar ;  he  must  have  had  a  dozen  languages  at  his  tongue's  end, 
and  seemed  to  know  all  about  history,  science,  law,  philosophy,  and 
all  the  rest  of  it.  We  were  frank  and  friendly  with  each  other,  and 
one  day  he  said  to  me: 

"You  'Mormons'  are  all  ignoramuses.  You  don't  even  know  the 
strength  of  your  own  position.  It  is  so  strong  that  there  is  only  one 
other  position  tenable  in  the  whole  Christian  world,  and  that  is  the 
position  of  the  Roman  Catholic  church.  The  issue  is  between  'Mor- 
monism'  and  Catholicism.  If  you  are  right,  we  are  wrong.  If  we 
are  right,  you  are  wrong,  and  that's  all  there  is  to  it.  These  Protestant 
sects  haven't  a  leg  to  stand  on;  for  if  we  are  right,  we  cut  them,  off 
long  ago,  as  apostates ;  and  if  we  are  wrong,  they  are  wrong  with  us, 
for  they  were  a  part  of  us  and  came  out  of  us.  If  we  have  the 
apostolic  succession  from  St.  Peter,  as  we  claim,  there  was  no  need 
of  Joseph  Smith  and  'Mormonism ;'  but  if  we  have  not  that  apostolic 
succession,  then  such  a  man  as  Joseph  Smith  was  necessary,  and  'Mor- 
monism's  position  is  the  only  consistent  one.  It  is  either  the  per- 
petuation of  the  Gospel  from  ancient  times  or  the  restoration  of  the 
Gospel  in  latter  days." 

"Doctor,"  said  I,  "that  is  a  very  clear  and  concise  statement,  and 
I  agree  with  it  in  almost  every  particular.  But  don't  deceive  yourself 
with  the  notion  that  we  'Mormons'  don't  know  the  strength  of  our 
own  position.  We  know  it  better  than  you  do.  We  know  it  better 
than  any  other  people  can  know  it.  We  haven't  all  been  to  college,  we 
can't  all  speak  the  dead  languages,  and  we  may  be  ignoramuses  as 
you  say;  but  we  know  we  are  right,  and  we  know  you  are  wrong." 
I  was  just  as  frank  with  him  as  he  had  been  with  me. 

Now  what  was  this  great  scholar's  viewpoint  ?  With  all  his  learn- 
ing, he  could  not  see  into  the  heart  of  "Mormonism."  He  recognized 
the  strength  of  its  position;  but  he  supposed  that  to  be  an  accident. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


61 


He  thought  Joseph  Smith  had  stumbled  upon  something  of  which 
he  did  not  know  the  true  value.  He  was  wise  in  worldly  wisdom; 
but  his  wisdom  perished  in  the  presence  of  this  mighty  and  marvelous 
problem. 

Another  instance  and  I  am  done.  A  learned  gentleman  named  Riley 
applied  for  a  doctor's  degree  at  Yale  University,  and  as  the  basis  of 
his  application,  he  wrote  a  thesis  entitled  "Joseph  Smith,  the  Founder  of 
Mormonism."  And  what  did  he  bring  forth?  Simply  this:  That 
Joseph  Smith  was  an  epileptic,  who  fell  in  a  fit  and  imagined  that  he 
saw  the  Father  and  the  Son ;  imagined  that  Moroni  revealed  to  him  the 
Hook  of  Mormon;  that  John  the  Baptist  conferred  upon  him  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  and  Peter,  James  and  John  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood ;  that  Moses  restored  the  keys  of  the  gathering,  and  that  Elias  and 
Elijah  also  appeared  to  him.    All  imagination,  said  Mr.  Riley. 

But  this  wise  man  overlooked  one  important  fact :  A  tree  is  known 
by  its  fruit;  a  fountain,  by  the  stream  that  issues  from  it.  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  as  a  system  of  government, 
challenges  the  admiration  of  intelligent  men  all  over  the  world.  It  is 
conceded  to  be  a  wonderful  organization.  And  the  doctrines  of  "Mor- 
monism" are  replete  with  poetry  and  philosophy — are  beautiful, 
glorious  and  sublime.  Joseph  Smith  declared  that  these  things  were  re- 
vealed to  him — that  they  came  right  down  from  God  out  of  heaven ; 
but  Mr.  Riley  would  have  us  believe  that  they  all  sprang  from  the 
diseased  brain  of  a  fourteen-year-old  boy  who  had  fallen  in  an  epileptic 
fit! 

There  are  some  things  that  do  not  need  answering,  and  this  one 
of  them.  Well  was  it  said  in  days  of  old,  with  reference  to  the  days  in 
which  we  live :  "The  wisdom  of  their  wise  men  shall  perish,  and  the 
understanding  of  their  prudent  men  shall  be  hid." 

ONLY  ONE  WAY 

There  is  but  one  way  to  understand  "Mormonism" — and  that  is 
God's  way,  not  man's.  Books  and  schools  cannot  give  a  testimony  of 
the  Truth.  Those  who  sneer  at  the  Everlasting  Gospel,  and  pelt  it 
with  nicknames,  will  never  understand  it — unless  they  repent,  and  are 
baptized,  and  receive  the  Holy  Ghost,  whereby  the  things  of  God  are 
made  manifest.  What  Peter  said  to  the  multitude  in  his  great  Pente- 
costal sermon,  is  just  as  true  today  as  when  it  was  first  spoken.  The 
Gospel  does  not  change ;  it  is  the  same  yesterday,  today  and  forever ; 
and  what  was  necessary  to  save  a  soul  two  thousand  years  ago,  is 
necessary  to  save  one  now.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 

Retiring  President  of  the  Western  States  Mission 

During  the  few  moments  at  my  disposal  I  pray  that  I  may  have 
the  spirit  of  this  occasion. 

For  nearly  nine  years  it  has  been  my  good  fortune  to  labor  as  a 
missionary  of  the  Church,  proclaiming  to  the  world  the  marvelous  work 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  a  wonder  that  has  been  established  in  this  dispensation.  I  can 
truly  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  it  has  brought  into  my 
life  a  greater  joy  than  any  other  experience.  We  may  buy  pleasure, 
we  may  attain  happiness,  but  real  joy  comes  to  the  individual  who 
gives  long  and  unselfish  service  to  his  fellowmen.  I  have  rejoiced  in 
the  opportunity  afforded  me  to  lift  up  my  voice  in  proclamation  oi 
the  gospel  and  to  declare  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  and  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  and  is  a  prophet  of  the  living  God. 

As  I  have  listened  to  the  brethren,  during  the  sessions  of  this 
conference,  I  have  realized  more  fully  than  ever  before  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  the  spiritual  pioneer  of  the  nineteenth  century,  that  he 
was  the  trail-blazer,  if  you  please,  who  led  men  and  women  away 
from  the  worship  of  idols  and  planted  anew  in  their  hears  a  knowl- 
edge of  God  and  of  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ.  He  led  by  voice  and 
life  and  never  permitted  the  message  entrusted  to  his  care  to  be 
throttled  by  any  power,  social,  economic  or  military.  Joseph  Smith 
established  the  Church  on  a  firm  foundation,  builded  it  upon  the 
Savior  of  the  world,  with  apostles  and  prophets  as  in  the  great 
organization  established  by  the  Savior  in  the  meridian  of  time.  I 
am  wondering  if  we  appreciate  the  value  of  that  organization,  how 
important  it  is  that  we  have  the  living  oracles  among  us.  If  it  were 
not  for  these  men,  who  direct  the  destinies  of  the  Church,  who  keep 
it  in  order,  we  would  soon  be  as  the  world,  wafted  about  by  every  wind 
of  doctrine,  and  as  unstable  as  many  of  the  organizations  calling 
themselves  Christian  churches. 

I  am  happy  in  the  knowledge  that  the  Church  has  been  controlled, 
from  the  beginning,  by  the  power  of  God,  and  that  the  men  who  have 
stood  at  the  head  have  directed  its  destiny  under  his  inspiration.  The 
Latter-day  Saints,  as  indicated  by  the  last  speaker,  are  not  in  doubt 
with  respect  to  the  gospel  of  the  Master.  It  is  the  purpose  and  will  oi 
our  Father  that  all  men  might  know  the  truth.  To  that  end  the  gospel 
is  being  preached  in  all  the  world  as  a  witness.  The  promise  is  made 
unto  all  who  obey  its  saving  ordinances,  that  they  may  know  the  truth. 
There  are  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  of  Latter-day  Saints  today 
who  bear  witness  that  the  Lord  has  heard  and  answered  their  prayers, 
and  has  sealed  upon  their  hearts  this  knowledge.  The  missionaries  who 
are  out  in  the  world,  undaunted  and  unafraid,  proclaim  to  the  people 
that  if  they  will  obey  the  truth  they  may  know  that  it  is  of  God.  The 
Savior  has  promised  that  if  any  man  will  do  the  will  of  the  Father  he 
shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God  or  whether  we  speak 
of  ourselves. 

May  I  refer  to  one  incident  that  happened  in  our  mission  during 
the  last  year.  One  of  our  missionaries,  laboring  in  Casper,  Wyoming, 
called  at  a  home  one  day  and  was  invited  in,  by  the  man  of  the  house. 
He  discussed  our  faith  with  this  gentleman  for  upwards  of  three 
hours.  The  man  then  said  to  him :  "I  have  been  a  member  of  a 
Christian  church  for  many  years,  and  was  educated  for  the  ministry. 
My  father  and  my  grandfather  before  me  were  ministers  of  the  gospel. 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 


63 


Some  ten  years  ago  I  discovered  that  there  was  a  lack  of  vitality  in 
the  organization  to  which  I  belonged,  and  1  covenanted  with  the 
Lord  that  if  I  ever  found  the  truth  I  would  accept  it.  I  resigned  my 
pastorate,  took  up  school  teaching,  and  have  been  searching  for  the 
truth."  He  said,  "I  have  looked  everywhere,  except  into  your  or- 
ganization and  your  faith,  and  I  discover  today  that  you  have  presented 
to  me  the  message  that  I  have  been  seeking  all  these  years.  I  have 
covenanted  with  the  Lord  that  1  would  join  the  church  that  presented 
to  me  the  truth,  and  I  find  what  I  am  looking  for  in  your  organization." 

It  was  not  an  easy  matter  for  this  gentleman  to  accept  the  message 
of  the  elders.  Wjeeks  and  months  went  by,  a  serious  illness  overtook 
him,  an  operation  was  necessary;  but  before  the  operation  was  per- 
formed he  called  his  family  around  him  and  said  to  them :  "I  have 
discovered  the  truth  in  the  Mormon  Church,  and  if  I  die,  it  is  my 
wish  that  you  accept  their  message  and  become  identified  with  that 
people,  and  then  have  the  work  done  for  me  in  the  temple."  The  man 
did  not  die.  The  elders  administered  to  him ;  he  lived,  and  as  soon  as 
he  was  sufficiently  well  he  became  a  member  of  the  Church  by 
baptism.  After  baptism  he  said,  in  bearing  testimony,  that  the  scrip- 
tures were  opened  to  his  view,  or  to  his  understanding;  they  became 
a  new  volume.  He  understood  them  as  he  had  never  understood  them 
before.  He  comprehended  the  truth.  It  was  to  me  the  best  evidence 
of  his  conversion.  The  Holy.  Spirit  had  come  into  his  life,  and  he  was 
able  to  understand  the  gospel  of  the  Master  as  it  is  presented  by  the 
Latter-day  Saints.    Many  such  instances  might  be  related. 

I  appreciate  that  the  time  has  expired.  I  desire  to  bear  my  testi- 
mony to  the  truth;  that  I  know  as  I  know  I  live  that  this  is  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  to 
all  who  will  obey  its  saving  principles  and  ordinances.  It  is  not  enough 
for  us  merely  to  go  down  into  the  waters  of  baptism,  but  after  we 
have  accepted  the  truth  we  should  make  application  in  our  lives  of  its 
saving  graces — add  to  our  faith  virtue;  and  to  virtue  knowledge;  and 
to  knowledge  temperance ;  and  to  temperance  patience ;  and  to  patience, 
godliness ;  and  to  godliness,  brotherly  kindness ;  and  to  brotherly 
kindness  charity.  The  apostle  of  old  said:  "If  these  things  be  in  you, 
and  abound,  they  make  you  that  ye  shall  neither  be  barren  nor  un- 
fruitful in  the  knowledge  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ." 

The  Lord  help  us  to  so  live  that  we  may  be  worthy  of  all  his 
blessings,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Now  let  us  rejoice." 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle,  Pres- 
ident of  the  Cottonwood  stake  of  Zion. 

The  conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  meeting  commenced  at  2  o'clock  in  the  Tabernacle,  April  7, 
1928. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  congregation  sang,  "How  firm  a  foundation." 

Elder  Heber  S.  Allen,  president  of  the  Taylor  stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

A  solo,  "Lift  thy  heart,"  was  sung  by  Harold  H.  Bennett. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

I  pray  that  1  may  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  direct  me  in 
what  I  shall  say  this  afternoon.  It  is  my  desire  to  address  my  remarks 
particularly  to  the  officers  and  teachers  of  the  Church — those  who 
have  been  called  to  responsible  positions  in  the  Church  and  who  have 
a  voice  in  the  choosing  of  instructors  in  the  priesthood  quorums  and 
the  various  auxiliary  and  other  organizations  of  the  Church. 

TEACH  AS  DIRECTED  BY  THE  SPIRIT 

I  shall  read  a  few  verses  from  section  forty-two  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants : 

"And  again,  the  elders,  priests  and  teachers  of  ths  church  shall  teach  the 
principles  of  my  gospel,  which  are  in  the  Bihle  and  the  Book  of  Mormon,  in  the 
which  is  the  fulness  of  the  gospel. 

"And  they  shall  observe  the  covenants  and  church  articles  to  do  them,  and 
these  shall  be  their  teachings,  as  they  shall  be  directed  by  the  Spirit. 

"And  the  Spirit  shall  be  given  unto  you  by  the  prayer  of  faith;  and  if 
you  receive  not  the  Spirit  ye  shall  not  teach." 

We  are  inaugurating  in  the  Church  this  year,  a  little  different 
system  in  regard  to  the  teaching  of  members  of  the  Church,  and  I  think 
it  is  an  improvement  through  which  all  the  members  may  have  the 
opportunity  to  receive  instruction  in  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  as 
these  things  are  presented  unto  them  by  these  elders,  priests  and 
teachers  of  the  Church,  according  to  the  word  of  the  Lord  in  this 
revelation. 

FAITH  A   NECESSARY  QUALIFICATION 

The  matter  of  teaching  is  one  of  the  greatest  importance.  We 
cannot  estimate  its  value  when  it  is  properly  done ;  neither  do  we 
know  the  extent  of  the  evil  that  may  result  if  it  is  improperly  done. 
Whether  in  the  Church  schools,  the  seminaries,  auxiliary  organizations ; 
or  in  the  Priesthood  quorums,  the  greatest  qualification  required  of 
a  teacher  is  that  he  have  faith  in  the  principles  of  the  gospel ;  that  he 
believe  in  the  principles  of  revealed  truth  as  they  have  come  through 
inspired  prophets  in  our  own  day  as  well  as  in  times  of  old  ;  and  that 
he  shall  exercise  his  privilege  as  a  teacher  in  the  spirit  of  prayer  and 
faith. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  65 

I  am  in  full  accord  with  the  commandment  as  it  is  written  in  this 
revelation.  Unless  a  man  does  have  a  knowledge  of  the  truth,  has 
faith  in  the  word  of  the  Lord  and  his  power,  and  is  guided  by  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  he  should  not  teach.  We  are  commanded  "to  give 
diligent  heed  to  the  words  of  eternal  life."  For  we  "shall  live  by 
every  word  that  proceedeth  forth  from  the  mouth  of  God.  For  the 
word  of  the  Lord  is  truth,  and  whatsoever  is  truth  is  light,  and  what- 
soever is  light  is  spirit,  even  the  Spirit  of  Jesus  Christ." 

In  this  day  of  wonderful  educational  privileges  and  opportunities 
for  the  gaining  of  knowledge,  as  the  world  understands  it,  we  may 
feel  that  the  greatest  thing  required  of  a  teacher  is  that  he  possess  a 
liberal  education.  It  is  very  essential  that  men  with  the  responsibility 
that  teaching  brings,  be  educated;  that  they  have  knowledge  in  a 
general  way;  but  it  matters  not  what  a  man's  training  or  what  his 
schooling  may  be — how  many  degrees  he  holds — if  he  has  not  faith  in 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  has  no  testimony  received  from  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  of  the  divine  truth  which  has  been  revealed,  he  is 
not  qualified  to  teach  in  any  organization  within  the  Church.  Some- 
times those  who  are  serving  as  Bishops  and  Presidents  of  Stakes,  and 
in  other  leading  positions,  I  fear,  may  overlook  this  fact  and  in  the 
choosing  of  teachers  in  classes,  as  teacher  trainers,  or  wherever  it  may 
be,  think  of  the  man's  educational  qualifications  as  they  would  be 
looked  upon  in  the  world  and  forget  the  spiritual  and  doctrinal  qualifi- 
cations which  are  more  essential.  A  teacher  should  not  be  called 
primarily  because  of  his  schooling,  or  educational  attainments,  without 
taking  into  consideration  his  humility,  his  faith  and  his  integrity  to  the 
cause  of  truth  which  he  is  supposed  to  represent.  This  training  does 
not  come  through  the  study  of  science,  art  or  literature,  but  through 
prayer  and  faith  and  the  promptings  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  It 
cannot  be  stated  too  forcefully  that  the  man  or  the  woman  without  faith 
in  the  gospel  as  it  has  been  revealed  in  the  day  in  which  we  live,  should 
not  teach.    The  Lord  has  made  it  very  emphatic. 

MEMBERS  OF  THE  CHURCH  SHOULD  BE  PROPERLY  TRAINED 

This  is  a  very  important  age  in  which  we  live,  and  our  message 
and  our  authority  in  the  world  are  the  most  important  things  in  the 
world.  The  souls  of  members  of  the  Church  are  just  as  precious  in 
the  sight  of  the  Lord  as  are  the  souls  of  the  people  in  the  world 
unto  whom  our  missionaries  go  with  the  plan  of  salvation.  In  fact,  if 
a  choice  is  to  be  made,  a  soul  already  in  the  Church — one  who  is  in 
the  Covenant — is  just  a  little  dearer  to  the  Father,  if  possible,  than  is 
one  who  is  on  the  outside.  Of  course,  the  Lord  is  no  respecter  of 
persons,  and  all  souls  are  precious  in  his  sight,  but  he  no  doubt  loves  those 
who  obey  his  voice  and  who  are  willing  to  walk  in  his  truth,  more 
than  he  does  those  who  fail  to  do  so.  We  should  spend  our  time  and 
give  diligent  attention  to  the  training  of  members  of  the  Church. 
Teachers  who  are  filled  with  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  and  who  are  tried 
and  true,  should  be  called  to  act  in  this  capacity,  and  those  who  are 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


not  so  tried  and  proved,  should  not  be  called  to  instruct  the  members. 
What  do  we  accomplish  if  we  spend  our  time  and  means  preaching  in 
the  world  to  make  converts  to  the  gospel,  if  we  place  instructors  before 
the  youth  in  the  stakes  and  wards  who  destroy  the  faith  in  the  hearts 
of  the  young  people  in  the  divine  message  intrusted  to  our  care  ? 

SAVING  PRINCIPLES 

A  .man  may  have  a  wonderful  education  and  not  be  on  the  road  to 
salvation.  It  matters  not  if  a  man  is  acquainted  with  the  principles 
of  science,  history,  literature,  and  all  the  branches  of  education  as 
they  are  taught  in  the  schools  of  our  land,  these  truths,  of  themselves, 
will  not  save  him  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  He  must  have  in  his  heart 
the  spirit  of  faith  in  the  mission  of  Jesus  Christ;  he  must  understand 
the  principle  of  repentance;  he  must  understand  the  principle  by 
which  the  remission  of  sins  may  be  obtained,  which  is  baptism  by 
immersion  by  one  having  authority.  In  fact,  he  must  understand  all 
of  the  first  principles  of  the  gospel  and  obey  them.  These  truths  are 
fundamental  to  salvation.  If  a  man  has  not  complied  with  these 
principles  and  received  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of 
hands,  and  obtained  entrance  into  the  kingdom  of  God,  he  is  not  on 
the  road  to  salvation,  no  matter  what  else  his  knowledge  may  be. 
The  great  learning  he  obtains  in  the  world  will  not  save  him. 

FULNESS  OF  TRUTH  PROMISED  TO  FAITHFUL 

All  knowledge  is  helpful,  all  truth  is  a  part  of  the  gospel,  but  the 
Lord  has  given  us  some  fundamental  laws,  truths  by  which  his  king- 
dom is  governed,  and  we  must  be  in  accord  with  these  principles  of 
truth  and  these  laws,  and  understand  them  if  we  would  be  saved  in 
the  celestial  kingdom.  Having  possession  of  these  truths  pertaining 
to  our  salvation,  we  may  add  to  our  knowledge.  Eventually  a  man 
will  be  under  the  necessity,  if  he  becomes  perfect  as  the  Lord  prayed 
and  taught  in  his  sermon  on  the  mount,  to  understand  all  truth.  Things 
are  taught  in  a  fragmentary  way  now,  but  we  will  know  them  in  full 
sometime  when  we  receive  the  greater  light  and  understanding  after 
the  resurrection.  Our  knowledge  does  not  end  with  this  life.  We 
will  continue  to  progress  in  eternity,  and  all  things  will  be  revealed 
unto  those  who  are  faithful  in  this  life  in  keeping  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord.   The  Redeemer  has  said  : 

"The  Spirit  of  truth  is  of  God.  I  am  ithe  Spirit  of  truth,  and  John  bore 
record  of  me,  saying :    He  received  a  fulness  of  truth,  yea,  even  of  all  truth. 

"And  no  man  receiveth  a  fulness  unless  he  keepeth  his  commandments. 

"He  that  keepeth  his  commandments  receiveth  truth  and  light,  until  he 
is  glorified  in  truth  and  knoweth  all  things." 

SEEK  MEN  OF  FAITH  AND  TESTIMONY 

We  learn  in  the  scriptures,  then,  that  there  are  fundamental  things 
which  we  must  understand,  and  laws  which  we  must  obey,  if  we  would 
find  our  way  into  the  celestial  kingdom.  Now  I  speak  this  way  to 
impress  upon  my  brethren,  the  Bishops  and  Presidents  of  Stakes,  and 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


67 


others,  the  necessity  of  hunting  for  men  as  teachers  in  organizations 
within  the  Church  who  have  a  firm  testimony  and  who  live  in  full 
accord  with  the  word  of  the  Lord.  Men  who  are  filled  with  the  spirit 
of  faith,  who  understand  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  and  who  make 
them  a  part  of  their  lives  and  who  spend  some  of  their  time  in  prayer 
and  fasting. 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  TRUTH 

Let  me  read  from  another  revelation : 

"Wherefore,  I  the  Lord  ask  you  this  question — unto  what  were  ye  ordained? 

"To  preach  my  gospel  by  the  Spirit,  even  the  Comforter  which  was  sent 
forth  to  teach  the  truth. 

"And  then  received  ye  spirits  which  ye  could  not  understand,  and  received 
them  to  be  of  God;  and  in  this  are  ye  justified? 

"Behold  ye  shall  answer  this  question  yourselves ;  nevertheless,  I  will  be  mer- 
ciful unto  you;  he  that  is  weak  among  you  hereafter  shall  be  made  strong. 

"Verily  I  say  unto  you,  he  that  is  ordained  of  me  and  sent  forth  to  preach 
the  word  of  truth  by  the  Comforter,  in  the  Spirit  of  truth,  doth  he  preach  it  by 
the  Spirit  of  truth,  or  some  other  way  ? 

"And  if  it  be  by  some  other  way  it  is  not  of  God. 

"And  again,  he  that  receiveth  the  word  of  truth,  doth  he  receive  it  by  the 
Spirit  of  truth  or  some  other  way? 

"If  it  be  some  other  way  it  is  not  of  God. 

"Therefore,  why  is  it  that  ye  cannot  understand  and  know,  that  he  that 
receiveth  the  word  by  the  Spirit  of  truth  receiveth  it  as  it  is  preached  by  the 
Spirit  of  truth? 

"Wherefore,  he  that  preacheth  and  he  that  receiveth,  understand  one  another, 
and  both  are  edified  and  rejoice  together." 

HOW  TO  AVOID  DECEPTION 

Again  the  Lord  has  said,  speaking  on  this  question: 

"And  again,  I  will  give  unto  you  a  pattern  in  all  things,  that  ye  may  not  be 
deceived ;  for  Satan  is  abroad  in  the  land,  and  he  goeth  forth  deceiving  the  nations — 

"Wherefore  he  that  prayeth,  whose  spirit  is  contrite,  the  same  is  accepted 
of  me  if  he  obey  mine  ordinances. 

"He  that  speaketh,  whose  spirit  is  contrite,  whose  language  is  meek  and 
edifieth,  the  same  is  of  God  if  he  obey  mine  ordinances. 

"And  again,  he  that  trembleth  under  my  power  shall  be  made  strong,  and 
shall  bring  forth  fruits  of  praise  and  wisdom,  according  to  the  revelations  and 
truths  which  I  have  given  you." 

Satan  is  abroad  in  the  land,  deceiving  the  nations,  and  he  will 
deceive  us  unless  we  are  firmly  grounded  in  the  faith,  unless  we  base 
our  salvation  on  truth,  unless  we  search  for  gospel  knowledge  and 
understanding.  The  Lord  has  required  of  us,  as  he  sets  it  forth  in 
many  of  the  revelations  given  to  the  Church,  that  we  should  search 
the  scriptures,  and  make  ourselves  familiar  with  the  teachings  they 
contain.  If  we  will  do  this  then,  we  will  not  be  led  astray  by  every 
wind  of  doctrine  and  foolish  teaching  of  men  in  the  world,  but  will, 
have  power  to  understand  and  discern  between  truth  and  error  and 
choose  the  right,  avoiding  that  which  is  wrong.  Every  member  of 
this  Church  has  it  within  his  power  to  know  the  truth,  so  that  he 
may  not  be  deceived.    This  knowledge  will  come  to  us  through  our 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


study,  through  faith,  through  perseverance,  and  through  living  in  full 
accord  with  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel. 

May  the  Lord  bless  and  guide  us,  I  pray,  in  all  things,  that  we 
may  be  steadfast  in  the  truth  in  these  days  of  peril,  these  days  when 
there  are  so  many  false  doctrines  prevailing  in  the  world  and  men 
are  striving  to  destroy  the  fundamental  teachings  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  May  we  stand  firm  and  faithful  in  the  spirit  of  prayer,  the 
spirit  of  faith  and  with  a  perfect  testimony  of  the  truth,  I  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  have  been  greatly  impressed  by  the  spirit  of  this  conference,  and 
with  the  fact  that  the  Lord  has  set  his  hand  to  do  a  marvelous  work  and 
a  wonder  among  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  in  the  day  and  age  in 
which  we  live.  It  is,  indeed,  a  marvelous  and  wonderful  work  that 
was  portrayed  to  us  so  beautifully,  in  the  meeting  this  morning,  by  Elder 
Orson  F.  Whitney.  It  has  been  accompanied  by  the  most  miraculous 
occurrences,  and  it  is  not  a  great  wonder  that  many  people  have 
questioned  its  truth. 

We  are  living  in  a  day  of  agnosticism,  a  day  when  there  is  but 
little  faith  among  the  children  of  men.  The  great  thing  in  connection 
with  these  miraculous  occurrences  is  the  introduction,  among  our 
Father's  children,  of  those  principles  and  doctrines  that  have  within 
them  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation. 

What  is  the  work  of  God?  We  read  in  the  opening  paragraph  of 
the  Bible: 

"In  the  beginning  God  created  the  heaven  and  the  earth. 
"And  the  earth  was  without  form,  and  void ;  and  darkness  was  upon  the  face 
of  the  deep.  And  the  spirit  of  God  moved  upon  the  face  of  the  waters. 
"And  God  said,  Let  there  be  light :  and  there  was  light." 

Thus  began,  according  to  Holy  Writ,  the  great  work  of  creation ; 
and  there  followed  the  creation  of  man  in  the  image  of  God. 

What  is  God's  work,  of  which  we  speak  as  this  marvelous  work  and 
a  wonder?  It  is  the  great  plan  of  life  and  salvation.  God  created 
the  heavens  and  the  earth,  and  we  look  up  into  the  starry  heavens,  with 
wonder  and  amazement  at  the  grandeur  and  the  glory  of  this  universe 
in  the  midst  of  which  we  live.  We  see  the  blazing  sun  at  noonday 
and  our  hearts  are  thrilled  with  the  wonder  of  it ;  and  we  learn  of  the 
motions  of  those  heavenly  bodies  and  our  hearts  are  filled  with  amaze- 
ment and  wonder  at  the  glory  of  this  wonderful  creation;  and  we  ask 
the  question,  Whose  work  is  this?  We  may  read  the  answer  in  the 
opening  verse  of  the  Holy  Scriptures :    It  is  the  work  of  God. 

But  is  that  all  that  is  contemplated  in  this  great  work  of  God? 
Is  that  the  great  thing  that  God  has  in  mind?    The  Lord  spake  unto 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


69 


his  servant  Moses,  and  his  words  unto  that  mighty  prophet  read  like 
this:  "This  is  my  work  and  my  glory,  to  bring  to  pass  the  im- 
mortality and  eternal  life  of  man."  The  saving  of  human  souls,  redeem- 
ing them  from  the  fall,  exalting  them,  and  bringing  them  back  into  the 
presence  of  God,  is  to  bring  to  pass  their  immortality  and  eternal  life. 
It  is  not  sufficient  that  we  live  here  upon  the  earth.  This  is  but  one 
phase  in  the  progress  of  the  children  of  God.  This  mighty  work  of 
God  began  before  the  foundations  of  this  earth  were  laid.  What  do 
we  know  about  the  things  that  happened  before  the  foundations  of  this 
earth  were  laid?  I  grant  you  that  very  little  has  been  revealed,  but 
that  little  is  full  of  meaning.  The  Lord  spake  unto  his  servant  Job 
and  said: 

"Where  wast  thou  when  I  laid  the  foundations  of  the  earth?  declare,  if  thou 
hast  understanding.   *   *  * 

"When  the  morning  stars  sang  together,  and  all  the  sons  of  God  shouted 
for  joy?" 

True  enough ;  where  was  Job  then  ?  My  brethren  and  sisters,  where 
were  we?  We  stood  in  the  presence  of  our  Maker;  we  stood  in  the 
presence  of  our  Eternal  Father — his  begotten  children  in  the  spirit. 
What  was  the  occasion  that  filled  our  hearts  with  joy?  It  was  the 
promulgation  of  this  glorious  plan,  whereby  the  children  of  God  might 
become  exalted  and  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God,  that  we  might  have 
our  part  in  that  great  work  which  the  Lord  instituted  among  his 
children  even  in  that  primeval  day,  that  involved  the  creation  of  this 
world,  the  placing  of  our  Father's  children  upon  it  in  tabernacles  of 
flesh  and  bones.  It  involved  the  fall,  because  we  were  free  agents, 
and  without  the  experience  of  an  earth  life  there  would  be  no  possibility 
of  an  exaltation. 

The  principle  of  progress  is  involved  in  the  experiences  that  we 
have  upon  this  earth.  The  plan  was  announced.  It  was  one  of  free 
agency,  the  right  to  choose  between  good  and  evil.  Are  you  willing  to 
take  the  chances  of  an  earth-life,  with  the  recollection  of  your  previous 
existence  taken  from  you,  and  live  in  a  world  of  sin,  tempted  by  the 
adversary  of  the  children  of  men?  Are  you  willing  to  be  proved, 
whether  or  not  you  will  do  all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord  will  require 
of  you?  The  announcement  was  made  and  a  covenant  made  with  the 
children  of  God,  even  in  that  primeval  day,  when  he  revealed  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  to  the  children  of  God.  Even  then,  it  was  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation,  the  new  and  the  everlasting  covenant  that 
the  Lord  made  with  his  children.  If  you  will  do  these  things  and 
prove  yourselves,  you  will  receive  an  exaltation  in  the  celestial  king- 
dom of  God.  And  our  hearts  were  filled  with  joy  inexplicable,  even  to 
overflowing,  and  we  shouted  for  joy  over  the  glad  tidings  that  had 
been  made  known  unto  us  even  in  that  primeval  day. 

The  plan  involved  the  sending  of  one  mighty  and  strong.  The 
question  arose,  Whom  shall  I  send?  And  there  arose  in  that  mighty 
multitude  the  first-born  of  all  the  children  of  God,  who  said,  "Here 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


am  I,  send  me."  "Thy  will  be  done,  and  the  glory  be  thine  forever." 
But  there  was  another  in  that  assembly  who  objected  to  the  great 
plan  that  was  evolved,  that  of  free  agency,  and  he  arose  in  that  mighty 
multitude  and  said,  "Here  am  I  send  me,  I  will  be  thy  son,  and  I  will 
redeem  all  mankind  that  one  soul  shall  not  be  lost."  Compulsion,  that. 
"Surely  I  will  do  it ;"  said  he,  "wherefore  give  me  thine  honor."  And 
God  said,  "I  will  send  the  first."  And  Satan  grew  angry,  for  Satan 
it  was  who  had  spoken  thus,  and  he  rebelled  against  God.  He  had 
been  busy  beforehand,  laboring  among  the  children  of  God,  deceiving 
them  with  his  sophistries.  And  there  was  war  in  heaven,  and  Satan 
prevailed  not,  for  the  Lord  sent  the  first,  and  Satan  was  cast  out  of 
heaven. 

The  all-important  thing  for  the  inhabitants  of  this  world,  then, 
is  this,  to  believe  on  Him  whom  God  did  send,  and  reject  the  message 
of  him  whom  God  did  not  send  but  cast  out  of  heaven.  For  the  war. 
begun  in  heaven,  was  continued  here  on  earth  among  the  children  of 
men.  and  Satan  is  abroad  in  the  land  endeavoring  to  lead  the  children 
of  God  away  here  as  there,  continuing  his  work  of  destroying  the  souls 
of  men.  To  believe  on  Jesus  Christ,  then,  is  the  all-important  thing. 
Believe  on  him  and  thou  shalt  be  saved.  And  when  I  say  believe  on  him, 
T  mean  a  living  faith  in  him,  and  in  his  glorious  gospel,  for,  as  then, 
it  is  now  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  A  man  may  not  say  that 
he  believes  on  him  and  reject  his  gospel.  A  man  who  has  a  living 
faith  in  him  lives  not  by  bread  alone,  but  by  every  word  that  proceedeth 
forth  from  the  mouth  of  God,  and.  accepts  of  the  plan  of  him  whom 
God  sent  into  the  world,  rejecting  the  plan  of  the  adversary.  To  accept 
the  plan  of  our  Savior  is  to  have  faith.  To  reject  the  plan  of  the  ad- 
versary, with  all  his  sophistry,  his  false  religion,  his  deception,  his 
evil  and  all  combined,  to  resent  and  resist  that,  and  to  turn  away  from 
it,  is  to  overcome  sin. 

There  is  only  one  way,  and  that  is  to  accept  of  him  whom  God 
sent,  and  his  glorious  gospel,  which  has  been  restored  in  the  day  and  age 
in  which  we  live.  That  which  was  first  given  to  father  Adam  and  in 
various  dispensations  of  God's  providence  has  been  revealed  anew  to  the 
children  of  men.  Let  us  then  have  faith  in  him.  There  is  no  other 
name  given  under  heaven  whereby  men  and  women  can  be  saved,  no 
other  plan,  no  other  gospel.  There  is  but  one  faith,  one  Lord  and  one 
baptism;  and  that  baptism,  and  that  faith,  and  that  Lord  have  been 
revealed  to  the  children  of  men  in  this  dispensation  of  his  gospel,  and 
now,  in  the  day  in  which  we  live,  the  gospel  restored  in  all  of  its 
primitive  purity,  having  in  it  the  power  of  God ; — a  marvelous  work 
and  wonder  for  the  salvation  and  exaltation  of  the  children  of  God. 

May  we  accept  that  message,  live  in  accordance  with  it,  and  there- 
by  be  entitled  to  an  exaltation  wherein  our  Father  will  fulfil  the 
covenant  that  he  made  with  us  in  that  primeval  day.  Let  us  take 
advantage  of  it,  and  lift  up  our  voices  to  all  the  world,  that  they  may 
hear  the  glad  tidings  which  God  has  sent  into  this  world,  through  his 
Only  Begotten  Son,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Chrsit.  Amen. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


71 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

Yesterday  Elder  George  F.  Richards,  quoting  the  words  of  the 
Master,  said : 

"Ye  shall  know  them  by  their  fruits.  Do  men  gather  grapes  of  thorns, 
or  figs  of  thistle*?" 

May  I  for  a  few  moments  draw  your  attention  to  some  of  the  fruits, 
the  accomplishments,  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints? 

I  sat  yesterday  in  our  conference  by  the  side  of  Dr.  Roy  O.  Wyland, 
director  of  education  for  the  Boy  Scouts  of  America.  As  he  looked 
out  over  the  great  multitude  in  this  building  and  listened  to  the  remarks 
of  the  various  speakers,  he  was  getting,  perhaps  for  the  first  time,  an 
intimate  and  accurate  view  of  this  Church  and  its  fruits. 

At  the  close  of  the  second  session  of  the  conference  Dr.  Wyland 

said: 

"This  is  one  of  the  glorious  days  of  my  life.  I  have  nevter  known  such 
inspiration  before.   The  feeling  that  has  come  into  my  soul  today  is  entirely  new." 

A  TRIBUTE  BY  SENATOR  OWEN 

These  remarks  of  Dr.  Wyland  remind  me  of  Senator  Robert  L. 
Owen  and  of  the  experience  he  had  under  very  similar  circumstances, 
a  few  years  ago  in  this  same  building.  Senator  Owen  and  the  Honor- 
able William  J.  Bryan  occupied  front  seats  at  one  of  our  conference 
sessions  during  a  week-day  afternoon.  The  great  audience  made  up 
largely  of  men  was  to  them  a  thrilling  sight. 

At  the  close  of  the  session  these  two  distinguished  visitors  came 
to  the  stand  and  watched  the  great  multitude  move  out  of  the  building. 
A  few  people,  probably  a  hundred,  gathered  in  front  to  hear  what 
these  visitors  might  say.    Mr.  Bryan  asked  the  Senator  to  speak : 

"My  friends,"  said  Mr.  Owen,  "I  cannot  tell  you  how  much  I  have  been 
surprised  and  how  much  I  have  been  pleased  at  what  I  have  seen  and  heard 
here  this  day.  You  need  have  no  fear  for  the  future,  for  your  faith  is  founded 
on  a  rock. 

"I  can  perhaps  explain  my  feelings  best  by  telling  you  a  little  story.  Two 
men  were  sitting  side  by  side ;  one  said  to  the  other,  'You  see  that  man  over 
there?    I  hate  him.' 

"'You  hate  him?  How  can  you  hate  him?  He  is  a  stranger;  you  do  not 
even  know  him.' 

"  'Of  course  I  do  not  know  him.  I  could  not  hate  him  if  I  knew  him'." 

Mr.  Bryan,  Senator  Owen,  and  Dr.  Wyland,  were  all  surprised, 
they  were  all  pleased,  with  the  fruits  of  Mormonism  as  these  were 
presented  by  the  audiences  and  the  words  of  the  speakers. 

OUR    WORK    IN  SCOUTING 

"Ye  shall  know  them  by  their  fruits.  *  *  *  A  good  tree  cannot  bring 
forth  evil  fruit,  neither  can  a  corrupt  tree  bring  forth  good  fruit." 

If  we  are  to  be  judged  by  the  work  we  have  done  throughout  the 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Church  in  Scouting,  we  have  certainly  been  putting  forth  good  fruit. 
Dr.  Wyland  told  us  in  our  conference  yesterday  that  no  church  or 
other  organization  has  done  better. 

We  are  aiming  to  do  efficient  Scout  work  in  every  one  of  our 
one  thousand  wards  in  the  Church.  The  Scout  program  is  an  essential 
element  of  the  work  offered  in  our  Mutual  Improvement  Association. 
Practically  every  ward  has  in  it  a  Scout  troop. 

Elder  Richards  spoke  yesterday  of  his  own  son — one  of  five  re- 
markable Scouts  in  my  own  ward,  the  Twenty-seventh.  Few  troops 
in  the  city  or,  for  that  matter,  in  the  entire  country,  have  the  record 
of  our  Troop  Thirty-nine.  Scout  James  Bean  was  one  of  the  four 
boys  from  Region  Twelve,  which  includes  Utah,  Nevada,  Arizona  and 
California,  to  win  the  Harmon  Foundation  Scholarship.  Five  boys 
in  the  Ram  Patrol  of  this  Troop  to  which  the  son  of  Elder  Richards 
belongs,  another  being  a  grandson  of  Francis  M.  Lyman,  have  each 
from  sixty  to  seventy-five  merit  badges.  Our  Scout  Executive,  Mr. 
D.  E.  Hammond,  says  that  "they  are  the  ranking  Scouts  of  the  United 
States." 

If  the  tree  is  to  be  judged  by  its  fruit,  what  must  we  say  of  this 
outstanding  work? 

THE  CHURCH'S   MISSIONARY  SYSTEM 

Recently  I  was  asked  by  a  great  scholar  to  name  outstanding 
characteristics  of  our  people.  I  named  first  our  missionary  system. 
I  am  looking  to  see  someone  wise  enough,  philosopher  enough,  scientist 
enough,  to  explain  how,  with  little  opportunity  for  scholastic  education, 
Joseph  Smith  could  devise  an  educational  institution  of  such  merit  as 
this  missionary  system. 

How  precious  are  the  lives  of  young  people  eighteen,  nineteen, 
twenty  and  twenty-one  years  old ! — the  critical  ages  in  their  careers. 
What  do  thoughtful  folks  think  of  an  institution  that  teaches  boys  and 
young  men  at  this  the  most  critical  period  of  their  lives,  to  devote  one, 
two,  perhaps  three  years  to  spreading  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
to  a  study  of  his  life  and  labors? 

The  Christian  world  is  agreed  that  there  is  no  other  life,  that  there 
is  no  other  example,  like  that  of  Jesus,  the  son  of  God.  The  historian, 
IT.  G.  Wells,  said: 

"Being  myself  not  a  Christian,  I  must,  without  hesitancy,  when  T  have 
been  asked  to  name  the  seven  greatest  characters  of  all  time,  name  as  the  first 
greatest,  the  character  that  has  helped  humanity  most  and  best — Jesus  of 
Nazareth." 

Had  Joseph  Smith  done  nothing  more  than  establish  this  mis- 
sionary system,  which  sends  young  people  out  in  the  world  unselfishly 
to  teach  others  the  Christian  religion,  would  that  work  not  bear  the 
stamp  of  divinity?  Remember,  too,  that  these  young  people  pay  their 
own  expenses.  They  are  not  teaching  for  hire,  nor  are  they  divining 
for  money.    This  is  another  of  the  fruits. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


73 


FRUITS  OF  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  WORK 

There  came  recently  into  my  hands  "The  Vigilante" —  the  official 
organ  of  the  M  [Men's  and  Gleaner  Girls'  organizations  of  the  Holly- 
wood and  Los  Angeles  stakes.  These  young  people  are  fruits  of  the 
Church.  What  must  be  the  verdict  of  history  as  to  the  Church  which 
produces  young  people  who  in  an  editorial  publish  the  following : 

"The  man  who  succeeds  must  pay  the  price  of  success.  He  must  save 
when  he  would  like  to  spend.  He  must  work  when  he  would  like  to  be  asleep. 
He  must  take  the  kick  when  he  is  tempted  to  kick  back.  He  must  be  patient 
when  his  nature  wants  him  to  be  impatient.  He  must  call  all  his  faculties  to 
reason  when  they  want  to  be  unreasonable." 

These  are  the  sentiments  of  the  young  people  of  the  Church  who 
have  gone  on  through  Scout  work  to  "M"  Men's  work — their  own 
ideas,  expressed  in  their  own  way,  in  their  own  publication.  Is  the 
tree  which  produces  such  fruit  a  good  tree?  "By  their  fruits,"  says 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  "ye  shall  know  them." 

SENTIMENTS  OF  GREAT  LEADERS 

I  would  like  to  have  you  look  for  a  moment  at  the  man,  President 
Heber  J.  Grant,  who  stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church.  When  the 
Prophet  Samuel  was  looking  for  a  king  of  Israel,  he  said:  "Man 
looketh  on  the  outward  appearance,  but  God  looketh  on  the  heart." 
It  is  on  the  character,  the  heart,  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant  that  1 
desire  you  to  look. 

As  I  walked  into  his  office  the  other  day  he  handed  me  a  paper. 
I  found  on  it  such  words  as  these,  which  express  his  views  of  life: 

"A  man  is  a  man  when  he  knows  how  to  sympathize  with  men  in  their 
sorrows.  Yea,  a  man  is  a  man  when  he  knows  how  to  sympathize  with  men 
even  in  their  sins.  A  man  is  a  man  when  he  knows  that  each  man  fights  a  hard 
fight  against  many  odds,  when  he  has  learned  how  to  make  friends  and  how 
to  keep  them.  A  man  is  a  man  when  no  voice  of  distress  reaches  his  ear  in  vain, 
when  no  hand  seeks  his  aid  without  response,  when  he  finds  good  in  every  faith 
that  helps  any  man  to  lay  hold  of  divine  things,  whatever  the  name  of  that 
faith  may  be." 

These  are  the  feelings,  these  the  sentiments,  of  the  man  who  has 
been  produced  by  this  Church  and  who  at  present  stands  at  the  head. 

Having  known  him  since  I  was  ten  years  old,  I  say  with  certainty 
that  these  views  mirror  his  daily  life  as  he  has  lived  and  as  he  still 
lives  it. 

I  quote  from  another  product  of  the  Church — words  spoken  by 
that  scholarly  man,  John  Taylor,  on  the  12th  day  of  June,  1852 — a 
man  who  afterwards  became  President  of  the  Church.  Search  where 
you  will,  and  find,  if  you  can,  principles  any  higher  or  more  liberal 
than  these,  declared  by  President  John  Taylor : 

"If  any  man  under  heaven  can  show  me  one  principle  of  error  that  I  have 
entertained,  I  will  lay  it  aside  forthwith,  and  I  will  be  thankful  to  him  for  giving 
me  the  information.  On  the  other  hand,  if  any  man  has  any  principle  of  truth, 
whether  moral,  religious,  or  of  any  other  kind,  if  he  will  present  it,  I  stand 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ready  to  embrace  it.  On  the  other  hand,  if  I  have  principles  which  are  out  of 
the  power  of  man  to  prove  false,  I  stand  upon  these  as  a  sure,  safe  foundation." 

That  is  the  teaching  of  the  Church ;  is  it  good  fruit  ? 

A  CLEARNESS  OF  VISION 

Why  is  it,  as  Elder  Whitney  asked  this  morning,  that  those  who 
are,  and  those  who  are  not,  members  of  the  Church  can  not  see  alike  ? 
One  with  a  certain  mental  power  and  another  of  equal  capacity — why 
does  one  believe,  the  other  reject? 

Do  Church  members  see  more  clearly  because  they  belong  to  the 
House  of  Israel?    This  may  be  one  reason. 

It  has,  however,  for  a  long  time  been  my  thought,  that  a  clearness 
of  vision  has  come  to  us  because  those  having  authority  have  laid  their 
hands  upon  our  heads,  and  with  authority  have  said,  "Receive  ye  the 
Holy  Ghost" — a  blessing  which  seems  to  enable  us,  by  the  power  of 
faith,  to  see,  to  feel,  to  know,  and  to  say,  with  Job,  "I  know  that  my 
Redeemer  liveth." 

This  is  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God.  Repent,  as  has  been  said 
to  all  the  world,  be  baptized,  receive  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  you  shall  know. 

A  duet,  "O  God,  our  help  in  ages  past,"  was  sung  by  Margaret 
Stewart  Hewlett  and  Pearl  K.  Davis. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  was  not  able  to  be  at  conference  yesterday,  but,  as  I  lay  on  the 
lounge  and  listened  to  the  radio,  I  am  glad  to  say  to  the  people,  I 
heard  every  word  that  was  said,  even  at  that  long  distance.  I  listened 
with  great  interest  and  partook  of  the  spirit  of  the  conference.  As  far 
as  I  am  concerned,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  that  it  is  victory  or 
death.  I  haven't  a  vision  of  any  kind  whatsoever.  I  have  no  ambition 
to  achieve  honors,  and  I  have  only  one  viewpoint,  and  that  is  salvation. 
I  desire  most  fervently  to  walk  in  the  footsteps  of  my  father  and  to 
emulate,  as  far  as  I  am  capable,  his  example,  and  to  be  one  among  the 
number  who  are  loyal  and  true  and  faithful  to  the  Church. 

I  listened  with  much  pleasure  and  a  great  degree  of  happiness 
to  the  reports  of  the  presidents  of  Missions  as  to  what  is  accomplished 
in  the  world  through  the  preaching  of  the  gospel.  I  do  not  know  that 
I  ever  felt  quite  so  intently  as  I  do  now,  notwithstanding  my  own 
missionary  work  and  the  hundreds  of  elders  I  have  assisted  in  setting 
apart,  the  importance  of  this  labor,  because  of  its  influence  upon  our 
youngest  son,  who  is  now  in  France. 

You  know  I  am  rather  peculiar  in  my  thoughts  and  imaginations. 
I  get  to  thinking  along  certain  lines.  I  pick  up  ideas  here  and  there. 
It  is  not  original.  I  haven't  been  able  to  get  hold  of  anything  original 
for  a  long  time. 

All  the  passion  I  have  had  for  the  past  forty  years  I  have  put  into 


ELDER  ].  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


75 


this  work,  with  all  the  mistakes  and  blunders,  and  my  spirit  has  worn 
out  my  body.  As  I  grow  older,  I  become  more  silent,  with  a  desire 
to  be  alone.  To  me,  one  glimpse  of  immortality  would  mean  that 
death  would  lose  all  cause  of  fear  and  would  hasten  my  desire  to  go 
home.  As  someone  has  said:  "Why  fear  death?  It  is  the  most 
beautiful  adventure  of  life." 

What  is  the  good  of  all  this  education  and  science  if  it  cannot 
tell  us  that  there  is  a  survival  after  death?  What  is  the  good  of  it  all 
if  it  cannot  answer  a  simple  question  like  that?  Science  seems  not  to 
know  what  lies  beyond  the  "No  man's  land,"  so  we  must  turn  our 
faces  and  our  desires  to  God  for  an  answer.  It  has  been  remarked 
very  often  that  when  we  meet  a  really  big  man,  we  almost  invariably  find 
a  simple  man,  devoid  of  pride  and  arrogance.  One  reason  lies  in  the 
fact  that  every  man  holding  a  big  position  knows  in  his  own  soul,  if 
he  be  honest,  that  there  are  forces  entirely  outside  of  himself  that  have 
led  him  onward  to  do  big  things.  The  man  of  the  world  calls  it  luck, 
just  a  series  of  accidents,  but  Latter-day  Saints  feel  that  great  men  and 
good  women  succeed  because  the  front  door  of  their  intelligence  is 
always  open  to  inspiration  and  because  of  their  dogged  determination 
and  effort  to  carry  out  what  God  has  inspired  them  to  do.  What  a  man 
is  worth  in  this  world  depends  on  the  kind  of  life  he  leaves  behind 
him  as  he  passes.  His  riches  consist,  not  of  what  he  brought  with  him, 
but  of  what  he  left  behind  him  as  he  bestowed  his  goods  and  influent 
to  uplift  and  help  the  poor. 

Heber  C.  Kimball  had  the  superb  gift  of  living  in  the  hearts  of 
the  people.  He  taught  me  by  his  good  behavior  that  while  equality  is 
often  impossible,  brotherhood  and  friendship  is  the  great  possible  thing. 
I  cannot  but  feel  that  all  that  is  beautiful  and  virtuous,  all  that  is  great 
and  noble,  will  be  for  my  father.  God  and  Christ,  and  the  Prophet 
Joseph  and  his  brethren,  in  time,  will  assemble,  and  he  will  be  among 
that  number.  His  personality  was  as  simple  as  a  child's  and  he  had 
the  priceless  gift  of  a  forgiving  and  loving  heart  for  the  people,  for 
his  wives  and  for  his  children. 

The  fact  that  Heber  C.  Kimball  was  my  father  need  not,  I  think, 
with  fair-minded  people  who  are  considerate,  convict  me  of  immodesty 
in  telling  his  story.  It  is  .not  as  if  I  were  claiming  anything  for  myself. 
I  had  nothing  to  do  with  his  creation,  but  I  speak  of  a  real  man,  the 
personification  of  a  great  prophet,  a  great  pioneer  in  American  life. 
I  ask  why  should  I  not,  at  the  closing  of  my  life,  give  in  my  way  an 
authentic  picture  of  him,  with  the  hope  that  it  may  be  faith-promoting 
and  convincing  to  others  as  it  has  been  to  me?  When  I  read  of  those 
143  pioneers  who  landed  in  this  valley  on  July  24,  1847,  and  in  one 
short  month  they  accomplished  more  for  the  beginning  of  a  great  work 
than  other  men  have  accomplished  in  a  lifetime,  I  marvel  at  it.  I  can 
remember  reading  a  discourse  preached  by  President  Brigham  Young 
at  the  funeral  of  Jedediah  M.  Grant,  wherein  he  said :  "This  man  who 
lies  before  you  accomplished  more  in  ten  years  than  some  men  accom- 
plish in  one  hundred." 

I  now  desire  to  call  to  the  attention  of  the  Kimball  race  what  was 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


accomplished  by  President  Heber  C.  Kimball  and  others  in  preaching: 
the  gospel  in  England. 

Heber  Chase  Kimball  was  born  in  Sheldon,  Vermont,  June  14, 
1801.  When  he  was  eleven  years  old,  his  parents  removed  to  West 
Bloomfield,  New  York,  where  his  father,  who  was  a  blacksmith,  estab- 
lished a  large  shop  in  which  Heber  was  taught  blacksmithing.  At  the 
age  of  nineteen,  he  was  thrown  upon  his  own  resources,  his  father 
having  failed  in  business.  Heber  was  relieved  by  his  elder  brother, 
Charles,  who  taught  him  the  potter's  trade.  Heber  C.  suffered  severe 
poverty  to  the  extent  of  actual  hunger  at  this  time,  but  it  was  largely 
brought  about  by  his  shyness  and  timidity. 

"With  all  his  trials,  hardships  and  persecution  he  was  a  singular  coljnpound 
in  his  nature,  of  courage  and  timidity;  weakness  and  strength,  with  a  penchant 
for  mirth  and  a  proneness  for  melancholy,  and  blending  the  lion-like  qualities 
of  a  leader  of  men  with  the  bashfulness  and  lamb-like  simplicity  of  a  child. 

"Men  like  Heber  C.  Kimball  are  not  accidents.  They  are,  emphatically  and 
in  the  truest  sense,  children  of  destiny.  What  is  true  in  this  respect  of  ancient 
prophets,  like  Abraham  and  Jeremiah,  is  true  also  of  modern  prophets. 

"This  wondrous  triad  of  spirits,  known  to  the  world  as  Joseph  Smith, 
Brigham  Young  and  Heber  C.  Kimball,  of  "Green  mountain  boys"  of  Vermont, 
went  forth  in  the  name  of  the  great  Jehovah  to  plant  the  banner  of  gospel  truth." 

In  the  spring  of  1837,  Brother  Kimball  was  informed  by  Brother 
Hyrum  Smith,  one  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  that  he  was 
designated  by  the  Holy  Spirit,  at  a  conference  of  the  authorities  of  the 
Church,  to  go  on  a  mission  to  Great  Britain. 

Brother  Kimball  felt  his  weakness  and  unworthiness  and  could 
not  help  exclaiming,  "O  Lord,  I  am  a  man  of  stammering  tongue,  and 
not  fit  for  the  work." 

In  June,  1837,  he  bade  adieu  to  his  family,  friends,  the  town  of 
Kirtland,  in  company  with  Brother  Orson  Hyde  and  others,  and  arrived 
in  England  July  15,  1837. 

They  were  moved  upon  to  go  to  Preston.  It  was  a  day  on  which 
representatives  were  chosen.  On  one  of  the  flags  that  were  unfurled 
was  this  motto  :  "Truth  will  prevail."  The  brethren  exclaimed.  "Amen 
—so  let  it  be." 

They  arrived  in  Kirtland  in  May,  1838,  having  been  absent  about 
ten  months. 

There  were  great  numbers  initiated  into  the  Church.  Those  who 
were  sick  flocked  daily  to  be  healed.  The  brethren  slept  but  little,  and 
some  nights  and  days  were  taken  up  in  baptizing,  confirming,  administer- 
ing to  the  sick  and  teaching  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  They  baptized 
ten,  twenty  and  as  many  as  twenty-five  in  one  day.  In  Preston,  fifty 
were  baptized  in  one  week  and  one  hundred  in  four  weeks. 

Referring  to  the  vision  of  the  legion  of  evil  spirit  in  England,  on  the 
opening  of  the  mission,  Joseph  Smith  said,  "Brother  Heber,  at  that 
time  you  were  nigh  unto  the  Lord ;  there  was  only  a  veil  between  you 
and  him.  The  nearer  a  person  approaches  to  the  Lord  the  greater  power 
does  the  devil  manifest." 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


77 


On  September  18,  1839,  Brigham  Young,  Heber  C.  Kimball  and 
others  started  on  a  mission  to  England.  Their  wives  and  children 
were  sick. 

Charles  Hubbard  sent  a  boy  with  a  span  of  horses  and  wagon  to 
start  them  out  on  their  journey.  Brigham  and  Heber  were  both  sick 
and,  with  difficulty,  got  into  the  wagon.  Reaching  Kirtland,  they  had 
$13.50  on  hand  and  had  paid  out  $87.  They  had  traveled  400  miles 
by  stage  and  paid  eight  to  ten  cents  a  mile,  had  eaten  three  meals  a 
flay  at  fifty  cents  a  meal  and  had  paid  fifty  cents  for  lodgings.  Brother 
Brigham  suspected  that  Heber  had  put  the  money  in  the  trunk,  but 
Heber  said  a  heavenly  messenger  provided  the  money. 

Elders  Brigham  Young,  Heber  C.  Kimball,  John  Taylor,  Orson 
Pratt  and  R.  Hedlock  took  ship  for  England,  March  7,  1840,  arriving 
April  6,  1840.  On  April  20,  1841,  they  returned  to  New  York.  They 
established  the  work  of  the  Church  in  almost  every  noted  town  and  city 
in  Great  Britain;  baptized  between  seven  thousand  or  eight  thousand; 
printed  5,000  Books  of  Mormon,  3,000  Hymn  books,  2,500  volumes  of 
the  Millenhl  Star  and  50,000  tracts;  emigrated  1,000  souls  to  Zion ; 
established  a  permanent  shipping  place,  and  sowed  in  the  hearts  of 
thousands  the  seeds  of  eternal  truth. 

The  fall  and  winter  of  1838  was  one  of  the  darkest  periods  in 
Church  history — mobocracy  on  one  hand  and  apostasy  on  the  other.  It 
was  first  a  city,  then  a  county,  and  a  whole  state  rose  in  arms  against 
God's  people. 

Agreeable  to  the  terms  of  the  anti-"Mormons,"  whom  the  com- 
missioners represented,  the  Saints,  trusting  in  God,  were  now  pre- 
paring for  the  exodus  of  the  Church  and  its  pilgrimage  to  the  Rocky 
mountains,  an  event  foreseen  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  predicted 
by  him  in  August,  1842. 

Heber  C.  Kimball  accompanied  President  Brigham  Young  to 
Illinois,  and  was  with  President  Young  and  the  143  pioneers  that 
found  their  way  to  the  Salt  Lake  Valley  in  1847. 

On  returning  to  Winter  Quarters,  Brigham  Young  was  chosen 
and  sustained  as  the  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  with  Heber  C.  Kimball  as  his  first  counselor,  in  the  fall  of 
1847,  a  position  my  father  occupied  until  his  death  in  June,  1868. 

I  honor  my  father  for  his  faith,  courage  and  integrity  to  God 
the  Father  and  to  his  Son  Jesus  Christ.  He  was  one  of  the  first 
chosen  apostles  that  never  desired  the  Prophet's  place — his  hands  never 
shook,  his  knees  never  trembled  and  he  was  true  and  steadfast  to  the 
Church  and  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

He  built  homes  for  his  wives  and  children,  two  flour  mills,  card- 
ing machine  mill,  molasses  mills,  a  linseed  oil  mill,  school  buildings,  barns, 
cobble  stone  walls.  He  beautified  gardens  and  farms  and  laid  out  his 
inheritance,  and  laid  out  city  blocks  and  named  the  streets.  He  located 
hundreds  of  people  who  built  homes,  and  he  never  speculated. 

At  a  council  meeting  held  at  the  Prophet  Joseph's  house,  Sidney 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Rigdon  remarked  that  he  had  some  feelings  against  Elder  Kimball 
who  prophesied  of  Nauvoo :  "It  is  a  very  pretty  place,  but  not  a  long 
abiding  place  for  the  saints."  Sidney  said :  "I  should  suppose  that 
Elder  Kimball  had  passed  through  suffering  and  privations  and  mob- 
bings  and  drivings  enough  to  learn  to  prophesy  good  concerning  Israel." 
With  a  mixture  of  meekness  and  humor,  Heber  replied:  "President 
Rigdon,  I'll  prophesy  good  concerning  you  all  the  time  if  you  can  get  it." 

Brother  Brigham,  Heber  and  others  were  enroute  to  Kirtland. 
Heber  had  chills  and  fever  and  was  very  ill.  A  doctor  said  he  could 
give  him  something  to  relieve  him.  The  doctor  was  drunk,  and  gave 
Heber  a  tablespoonful  of  morphine.  He  reeled  and  fell  to  the  floor. 
Some  of  the  brethren  wept  and  said,  "We  will  never  see  Heber  again." 
Brother  Brigham  cared  for  him.  Heber  said :  "Don't  be  scared. 
You  brethren  go  ahead,  for  Brother  Brigham  and  I  will  reach  Kirtland 
before  you  will"  ;  and  they  did. 

During  the  famine  of  1856,  which  was  likened  unto  the  famine  of 
Egypt,  Heber  C.  Kimball  played  a  part  like  unto  that  of  Joseph  of  old. 
He  had  prophesied  of  the  famine.  He,  by  his  providence  and  foresight 
and  anticipation  of  the  famine,  had  saved  his  grain,  filled  his  bins  and 
storehouse,  and  he  fed  a  hungry  multitude,  kindred,  strangers  and  all. 
who  looked  to  him  for  succor.  His  own  family  were  put  upon  short 
rations,  though  he  had  thousands  of  bushels  of  wheat,  with  bran,  shorts, 
corn  and  barley  in  abundance.  Several  hundred  bushels  of  wheat  were 
loaned  to  President  Young,  to  help  feed  the  hungry  and  the  poor  of 
Salt  Lake  City. 

Bishop  John  B.  Maiben  gives  an  interesting  link  in  the  historic 
chain  at  the  time  of  the  famine.  "Some  individuals  who  had  flour  sold  it 
at  $25  to  $30  a  100  pounds.  Not  so  with  Heber,  for  at  no  time  did  he 
charge  more  than  $6  a  100  pounds,  then  the  standard  tithing-offiee 
price.  He  distributed  in  various  amounts,  from  five  to  fifty  pounds 
to  the  poor,  amounting  to  about  30,000  pounds.  His  acts  of  generosity, 
mercy  and  charity,  during  this  time  of  sore  distress,  are  worthy  of 
the  man.  He  kept  an  open  house  and  fed  from  twenty-five  to  one 
hundred  poor  people  at  the  tables  daily,  with  bread,  flour  and  other 
necessities  that  were  worth  their  weight  in  gold." 

It  is  related  that  during  the  famine,  a  brother,  sorely  in  need  of 
bread,  came  to  President  Kimball  for  counsel  as  to  how  to  procure  it. 
"Go  and  marry  a  wife,"  was  Heber's  terse  reply,  after  feeding  the 
brother.  The  man  thought  Brother  Kimball  must  be  out  of  his  mind, 
but  when  he  thought  of  his  prophetic  character,  he  resolved  to  obey 
counsel.  He  wondered  where  such  a  woman  was  and,  thinking  of  a 
widow  with  several  children,  he  got  busy  and  proposed.  As  widows 
generally  do,  she  accepted  him.  In  that  widow's  house  was  laid  un 
a  six  months'  store  of  provisions.  She  surely  grub-staked  him.  Meet- 
ing Brother  Kimball  soon  after,  the  prosperous  man  of  a  family  said: 
"Well,  Brother  Heber,  I  followed  your  advice."  "Yes,"  said  the 
man  of  God,  "and  you  found  bread." 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


79 


About  this  time,  they  had  to  meet  the  wants  of  the  immigration, 
which  had  commenced  pouring  in  from  Europe.  The  crickets  had 
played  havoc  with  the  crops,  in  spite  of  the  interposition  of  the  gulls. 
Great  wisdom  and  the  broadest  charity  had  to  be  exercised  to  relieve 
suffering  and  hunger.  The  people  were  put  upon  rations,  all  sharing 
the  same,  like  members  of  one  family.  As  filling,  they  dug  roots  and 
ate  them,  like  the  Indians,  or  cooked  and  ate  the  hides  of  animals. 

It  was  during  this  time  of  famine,  when  the  half-starved,  half- 
clad  settlers  scarcely  knew  where  to  look  for  the  next  crust  of  bread,  or 
for  rags  to  hide  their  nakedness,  that  Heber  C.  Kimball,  filled  with  the 
spirit  of  prophecy,  in  a  public  meeting,  declared  to  the  astonished 
congregation,  that,  within  a  short  time,  states'  goods  would  be  sold 
in  the  streets  of  Great  Salt  Lake  City  cheaper  than  in  New  York,  and 
that  the  people  should  be  abundantly  supplied  with  food  and  clothing. 

As  soon  as  the  spirit  force  had  abated,  on  resuming  his  seat,  he 
remarked  to  the  brethren  that  he  feared  he  had  missed  it  that  time. 
President  Young  said:  "Never  mind,  let  it  go."  Charles  C.  Rich,  an 
apostle,  said :  "I  don't  believe  a  word  of  it."  Heber  said :  "Neither  do 
I,  but  God  hath  spoken."  The  words  of  a  prophet,  when  spoken  by  the. 
spirit  of  God,  are  the  words  of  God,  as  he  is  the  dictator. 

The  advent  of  the  gold  hunters,  on  their  way  to  California,  set 
on  fire,  as  it  were,  the  civilized  world,  and  hundreds  of  richly  laden 
trains  made  Salt  Lake  City  their  resting  place.  Thus,  the  Prophet 
Heber's  words  came  true,  for  states'  goods  were  actually  sold  in  the 
streets  here  cheaper  than  they  could  be  bought  in  New  York. 

Heber,  a  few  years  later,  said,  "That  is  the  way  I  prophesy,  but 
I  have  predicted  things  I  did  not  foresee  and  did  not  believe  anybody 
else  did,  but  I  have  said  it,  and  it  came  to  pass.  The  Lord  led  me  right, 
but  I  did  not  know  it." 

"Thou  shalt  go  to  Upper  Canada,  even  to  the  city  of  Toronto,  the 
capital,"  said  Heber  C.  Kimball,  to  Parley  P.  Pratt,  in  April,  1836, 
"And  there,"  continued  Heber  prophetically,  "thou  shalt  find  a  people 
prepared  for  the  gospel,  and  they  shall  receive  thee,  and  thou  shalt 
organize  the  Church  among  them,  and  it)  shall  spread  thence  into  the 
regions  round  about,  and  many  shall  be  brought  to  a  knowledge  of 
the  truth,  and  shall  be  filled  with  joy;  and  from  the  things  growing  out 
of  this  mission  shall  the  fulness  of  the  gospel  spread  into  England 
and  cause  a  great  work  to  be  done  in  that  land." 

This  pointed  prophecy  was  strikingly  fulfilled.  The  Fieldings, 
who  were  among  the  people  that  Parley  found  in  Canada,  ready  to 
receive  his  message,  had  a  brother  in  England,  a  minister,  to  whom 
they  wrote  concerning  the  rise  of  "Mormonism,"  and  thus  prepared 
the  way  for  Apostles  Heber  C.  Kimball  and  Orson  Hyde,  who,  with 
their  associates,  including  Willard  Richards  and  Joseph  Fielding,, 
carried  the  gospel  across  the  Atlantic.  The  Rev.  James  Fielding,  the 
minister  referred  to,  received  them  kindly  (though  he  afterwards 
turned  against  them)  and  it  was  from  his  pulpit  in  Vauxhall  chapel, 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Preston,  Lancashire,  July  23,  1837,  that  these  elders  preached  the  first 
"Mormon"  sermons  ever  heard  in  Britain. 

Tn  August,  1853,  Heber  addressed  the  Saints  in  the  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle :  "I  know  you  will  prosper  and  live  in  peace  in  the  moun- 
tains of  Great  Salt  Lake  and  be  perfectly  independent.  You  will  live 
in  peace  and  God  will  be  your  defence.  The  Lord  can  turn  the  nations, 
as  I  can  an  obedient  horse.  They  are  governed  and  controlled  by  the 
Almighty.  There  are  a  few  other  things  I  wanted  to  say:  Take  care 
of  your  grain;  for  it  is  of  more  worth  to  you  than  gold  and  silver." 
This  theme  he  stressed  for  the  next  three  years,  but  they  heeded  him 
not  and  they  suffered  the  consequence.  He  further  said  later:  "1 
would  like  to  see  the  people  manufacture  their  own  clothing,  machinery, 
knives,  forks  and  everything  else,  for  the  day  will  come  when  we  will 
be  under  the  necessity  of  doing  it,  for  trouble  and  perplexity,  war  and 
famine,  bloodshed  and  fire,  thundering  and  lightning  will  roll  upon  the 
nations  of  the  earth,  insomuch  that  we  cannot  get  to  them  nor  they 
to  us." 

Brother  Brigham  said :  "This  is  the  place."  Brother  Heber  said  : 
"Here  it  is  on  high.    It  is  the  best  country  I  ever  saw." 

At  family  prayers,  just  a  little  while  before  his  death,  he  remarked 
that  the  Angel  Moroni  had  visited  him  the  night  before  and  had  in- 
formed him  that  his  work  on  this  earth  was  finished  and  he  would 
soon  be  taken. 

He  died  the  morning  of  June  22,  1868. 

No  wonder  we  are  thrilled  and  rejoice  and  glorify  the  name  of 
God,  that  his  servants,  messengers  of  life  and  salvation,  have  a  message 
to  deliver  unto  his  children. 

God  bless  you  one  and  all.  I  sustain  and  uphold  the  hands  of  the 
priesthood,  and  I  desire,  as  you  do,  to  be  saved  and  exalted  in  the 
presence  of  God.  which,  if  I  know  anything,  I  know  it  must  be  the 
greatest  gift  of  God  to  his  children.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

I  desire,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  express  my  gratitude  to  my 
Heavenly  Father  for  the  many  blessings  and  opportunities  that  have 
come  to  me  during  my  life.  Two  of  these  opportunities  I  desire  to 
mention.  I  was  grateful  for  the  appointment  that  came  to  me  a  number 
of  years  ago  to  inaugurate  in  the  Church  and  to  develop  in  a  way,  two 
programs:  an  organized  program  of  athletics  and  the  Boy  Scout 
program.  I  was  grateful  for  the  kind  and  wise  counsel  that  was  given 
to  me  from  time  to  time  by  the  General  Superintendency  of  the  Mutuals. 
I  say  that  I  was  grateful  for  this  opportunity,  not  for  the  position,  but 
because  of  the  opportunity  it  gave  me  to  labor  among  the  young  people 
of  the  Church.  Among  the  young  people  is  that  vitality,  enthusiasm 
and  desire  for  progress  that  make  them  do  things.    To  have  an  oppor- 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


81 


trinity  to  help  guide  that  enthusiasm  and  love  of  life  into  channels  of 
righteousness,  so  that  our  young  people  might  take  their  place  in  the 
work  of  the  Church  a  little  better  than  they  could  otherwise  do,  was 
a  privilege  and  blessing. 

The  other  opportunity  that  came  to  me  was  the  privilege 
of  laboring  as  president  of  one  of  the  Missions  of  the  Church.  And 
again  I  say,  not  because  of  the  position,  not  because  of  the  honor — 
for  it  is  an  honor  to  preside  in  a  mission,  to  preside  in  anything  that 
has  to  do  with  God's  work — but  I  was  grateful  for  the  privilege  of  again 
laboring  with  the  young  men  and  women  who  have  faith  sufficient  to 
bring  them  out  into  the  world  to  preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
I  have  seen  them  grow  and  increase  in  faith,  in  testimony  and  in  power, 
and  I  have  realized  that  God  has  been  with  them.  I  have  been  grateful 
when  a  boy  or  girl  could  go  home  at  the  end  of  his  or  her  mission 
firmly  established  in  the  testimony  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  In 
leaving  the  mission  field  I  do  so  with  a  degree  of  regret,  because  I 
love  the  work  and  I  have  enjoyed  laboring  with  the  boys  and  girls  who 
have  been  sent  out  to  do  missionary  work  under  my  direction. 

In  our  message  to  the  people  of  the  world  we  are  not  questioning 
the  sincerity  of  the  thousands  and  thousands  of  honest  men  and  women, 
we  are  not  questioning  their  devption  or  their  love  of  God  or  their 
purity  of  life ;  but  we  are  questioning  the  correctness  of  their  interpre- 
tation of  the  principles  of  life.  We  are  questioning  the  correctness  of 
their  interpretation  of  the  scriptures  which  have  been  given  unto  us  by 
the  servants  of  the  Lord  who  wrote  and  spoke  by  the  inspiration  and 
power  of  God.  When  men  and  women  can  look  upon  the  laws  of 
nature,  express  their  admiration  and  reverence  for  God  because  of  the 
orderly  way  in  which  he  works  in  this  great  creation  of  ours — order- 
liness in  astronomy,  in  mathematics,  in  chemistry — it  seems  strange 
that  they  cannot  also  see  that  it  is  quite  as  necessary  that  there  be  an 
order  in  the  spiritual  phases  of  life.  Is  it  possible  that  God  shall  be 
orderly  in  all  other  things  except  his  way  of  saving  men  and  women 
and  bringing  them  back  into  his  presence? 

I  am  convinced  that  the  unbelief  and  division  that  we  have  in  the 
world  at  the  present  time  are  the  result  of  an  incorrect  interpretation 
of  the  word  of  God,  and  because,  of  such  interpretation  men  and  women 
and  young  people  especially  are  beginning  to  wonder  just  how  far  they 
can  go  in  religion,  and  whether  it  is  possible  to  find  out  God  at  all.  In 
our  interpretation  of  the  scriptures  we  have  faith,  but  we  are  not  inter- 
preting faith  as  some  interpret  it,  namely,  that  by  faith  we  are  saved  with- 
out works.  We  are  not  interpreting  baptism  as  something  which  can  be 
accepted  or  rejected  as  we  may  please  to  do.  But  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  is  one  of  completeness.  It  has  in  it  all  things  necessary  for  our 
salvation.  We  do  not  believe  in  faith  to  the  exclusion  of  all  other 
things,  or  as  many  of  the  people  of  the  world  believe,  "By  grace 
are  ye  saved." 

So  I  am  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  that  has  come  to  us  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Joseph  Smith.  It  is  so  broad  and  so  complete  that  it  has  an  appeal  to 
young  people ;  it  has  an  appeal  to  older  people ;  it  has  an  appeal  to 
scientific  people  and  to  educators.  It  matters  not  who  the  person  may 
be  who  comes  in  contact  with  the  gospel,  as  he  studies  it  he  discovers 
that  splendid  appeal. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  do  the  work  that  he  desires 
us  to  do  here  upon  the  earth,  may  our  boys  and  girls  continue  to  grow 
up  to  be  splendid  men  and  women,  that  they  shall  have  a  desire  in 
their  hearts  to  go  out  and  preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  plainness 
and  simplicity,  and  above  all  in  humility,  T  humbly  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 

Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church 

I  am  very  grateful  for  the  privilege  of  being  present  at  this  con- 
ference, to  partake  of  the  good  spirit  here  manifested,  and  for  the 
wonderful  experience  which  comes  through  the  personal  association  at 
a  conference  of  this  character.  A  number  of  important  subjects  came 
to  my  mind  while  sitting  here,  listening  to  my  brethren,  but,  it  seems, 
they  have  now  all  disappeared.  I  trust,  however,  that  I  shall  be  enabled 
to  recall  something  of  interest  during  the  few  moments  that  I  may 
stand  before  you. 

DESIRE  FOR  GREATER  STRENGTH 

I  am  very  grateful  for  the  blessings  that  have  come  to  me  in  my 
ministry  in  the  Church.  I  have  often  desired  to  have  greater  strength, 
realizing  that  the  responsibility  which  has  come  to  me  is  of  such  a 
character  that  it  needs  strength,  both  mental  and  physical,  to  discharge 
it  acceptably  to  the  Lord.  Like  Elder  Kimball's,  my  body  has  not  been 
strong  enough  to  carry  out  the  work  that  my  spirit  has  been  willing  to 
do.  I  have  often  wished  that  I  might  have  the  strength  that  was  en- 
joyed by  some  of  the  former  officers  in  the  Church,  those  especially 
who  have  held  the  office  that  I  now  hold. 

From  reading  the  history  of  the  Church,  I  have  learned  that  the 
first  patriarch  of  the  Church  weighed  three  hundred  pounds,  more  than 
any  of  the  present  general  authorities.  I  have  also  observed  that  only  a 
small  percentage  of  the  men  who  have  been  very  faithful  in  the  Church 
for  a  number  of  years  as  bishops  or  as  presidents  of  stakes,  and  have 
been  called  to  the  office  of  patriarch,  are  able  to  conduct  the  affairs 
required  of  them  for  any  great  length  of  time. 

THE  PASSING  OF  A  PATRIARCH 

The  desire  expressed  by  Elder  Kimball  was  realized  by  one  of  these 
good  men  only  the  night  before  last.  I  do  not  know  the  exact  age  of 
the  brother,  because  I  did  not  refer  to  the  records,  but  Patriarch  Joseph 
S.  Larkin,  a  very  faithful  man  in  the  Church,  had  prepared  himself  only 
last  Thursday  to  attend  this  general  conference,  and  retired  that  night 
with  a  smile  on  his  face  and  a  sweet  good-night  to  his  family.  When 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


83 


the  family  looked  upon  him  in  the  morning  his  spirit  had  gone.  He 
passed  on  without  disturbing  anyone.  This  might  be  a  peaceful  way 
to  go ;  but  death  seems  sad  in  any  way  that  it  comes. 

HONOR  AND  RECOGNITION   DUE  STAKE  PATRIARCHS 

I  want  to  express  my  appreciation,  my  sympathy  and  my  testimony 
relative  to  these  good  men  who  have  been  called  to  this  important  work 
in  the  Church.  From  experience,  I  have  learned  that  there  are  many 
individuals  in  the  Church  who  do  not  know  their  local  officers  suf- 
ficiently to  honor  them  as  we  would  like  to  have  them  honored.  Many 
of  our  missionaries,  desiring  to  get  their  blessings  before  going  away 
from  home,  fail  to  call  for  them  at  the  hands  of  their  own  fathers,  and 
their  own  kin,  and  their  own  neighbors — men  who  have  been  tried  and 
found  faithful — men  of  faith,  devotion  and  integrity  for  the  work.  I 
should  like  to  urge  these  young  people  to  take  advantage  of  their 
opportunities,  realizing  that  these  good  men  hold  the  Priesthood  of 
God  and  that  they  are  authorized,  with  the  keys  of  power,  to  function 
just  the  same  as  the  Presiding  Patriarch;  the  only  difference  being 
the  extent  of  jurisdiction. 

I  desire  to  instill  in  the  minds  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  both  old 
and  young,  a  respect  and  honor  for  the  men  who  hold  the  office  of 
patriarch  in  the  stakes  of  Zion.  I  testify  that  these  men  hold  the  keys 
of  power  to  bless  the  people,  and  that  their  calling  is  just  as  important 
in  their  field  of  labor  as  mine  is  in  the  field  in  which  I  have  been  called 
to  labor. 

BLESSINGS  OF  ETERNAL  CHARACTER 

As  far  as  the  strength  and  power  of  the  Priesthood  is  concerned, 
a  priest,  a  young  man  who  may  be  honored  with  the  Priesthood  of 
Aaron,  can  lead  a  convert  into  the  waters  of  baptism  and  baptize  him 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  and  that  baptism  is  of  an  eternal  character; 
nothing  will  take  the  place  of  it.  Yet,  many  of  us,  both  old  and  young, 
forget  that  a  man  who  is  advanced  in  years  and  experience  and  bears 
the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  has  the  power  to  confer  upon  us  a  bless- 
ing and  a  promise ;  to  advise  and  counsel,  all  of  which  also  is  of  an 
eternal  character.  All  our  blessings  are  of  an  eternal  character  when  they 
are  administered  by  proper  authority,  and  I  testify  that  these  good 
men  do  bear  that  authority  and  that  they  are  willing,  as  far  as  their 
strength  will  permit,  to  function  in  their  calling,  and  they  are  very  much 
encouraged  when  members  of  the  Church  apply  for  their  blessings  in 
their  home  stakes. 

I  pray  that  the  spirit  and  the  blessings  of  these  good  men  may 
increase ;  that  many  more  may  be  caused  to  seek  out  these  men  and 
honor  them,  as  they  should  be  honored,  throughout  the  stakes  and 
wards  of  the  Church.  These  good  men  hold  offices  of  a  stake  capacity, 
and  are  limited  to  the  stake  in  which  they  reside.  I  should  like  to 
encourage  the  members  of  the  Church  to  honor  them  in  their  position. 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


TESTIMONY  OF  POWER  IN  THE  CHURCH 

I  bear  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  have  dis- 
covered, through  experience,  that  the  Priesthood  is  in  the  Church  and 
chat  it  is  held  by  those  to  whom  it  has  been  given.  I  realize  that  there 
are  certain  gifts  and  powers  that  come  to  us  about  which  we  do  not 
know  very  much,  because  we  do  not  cultivate  them,  we  do  not  use  them 
as  perhaps  we  might  do ;  but  I  have  discovered  that  I  possess  the  Priest- 
hood of  God.  I  have  seen  its  fruits.  I  know  that,  by  my  faithful 
labors,  the  Lord  has  given  me  some  very  comforting  experiences.  The 
experiences  of  the  elders  of  the  Church,  if  published,  would  be  a  large 
volume.  Through  my  experiences,  I  have  been  convinced  that  I  do 
possess  that  power  which  has  been  given  to  me  and  has  been  given  to 
other  men,  and  I  desire  that  I  might  have  strength  to  honor  and  use  it 
further  for  the  blessing  of  the  people. 

My  heart  is  filled  with  a  love  of  the  work,  and  I  pray  that  the 
Lord  will  continue  to  bless  me,  in  body  as  well  as  in  spirit,  that  I  may 
continue  faithful  so  long  as  the  Lord  requires  my  labors. 

BLESSING  PRONOUNCED  UPON   THE  PEOPLE 

I  pray  that  the  spirit  of  this  conference  will  go  with  us  to  our 
homes,  and  help  us  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord;  help  us  to 
be  faithful  in  the  discharge  of  our  duties ;  help  us  also  to  avoid  falling 
into  error — the  breaking  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  the  breaking  of  the 
law  of  tithing,  and  the  breaking  of  other  commandments  that  will 
shorten  our  blessings  or  cause  them  to  be  withheld  from  us.  I  desire 
to  leave  with  you  the  blessings  of  the  Lord;  and  to  inspire  greater 
diligence  and  greater  faithfulness  on  the  part  of  the  members  of  the 
Church,  not  only  to  secure  their  blessings,  but  to  live  for  them,  ob- 
serving that  all  our  blessings  are  predicated  upon  obedience  to  law, 
and  that  the  laws  are  plain  and  for  our  benefit.  I  bless  the  people ; 
I  bless  the  officers  of  the  Church  who  have  gathered  here  to  receive 
instructions  of  the  leaders;  and  I  pronounce  upon  them  all,  leaders 
and  followers  alike,  the  blessings  of  God,  according  to  their  needs,  and 
pray  our  Heavenly  Father  to  bless  you  one  and  all  in  health  and  in 
strength  and  in  wisdom  and  in  gifts,  according  to  your  needs,  both 
temporal  and  spiritual,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Zion  stands  with  hills  surrounded." 
The  closing  prayer  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Clyde  Lindsay  of 
the  San  Francisco  Stake  Presidency. 

The  conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Sunday,  April  8, 
1928. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

Sunday,  April  8,  1928.  The  tabernacle  was  crowded,  every  seat 
in  the  galleries  and  main  hall  being  occupied,  and  hundreds  were  stand- 
ing in  the  doorways  and  aisles. 

The  meeting  commenced  promptly  at  ten  o'clock  a.  m. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Praise  to  the  man." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  George  W.  McCune, 
president  of  the  Hollywood  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  sang  "The  morning  breaks,"  led  by  Brother  George 
Careless,  who  composed  the  music  for  this  hymn  and  who  is  now  in 
his  eighty-ninth  year. 

PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

I  think,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  are  to  be  congratulated 
on  this  blessed  Easter  Sabbath  morn  in  having  the  great  privilege  and 
honor  as  servants  of  the  Lord  in  his  Church,  to  meet  together  under 
such  favorable  circumstances,  knowing  that  the  work  of  the  Lord  is 
spreading,  increasing  and  becoming  a  great  power  for  righteousness 
and  for  the  well-being  of  mankind  in  the  world. 

I  am  findful  that  I  am  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints ;  that  my  parents  heard  this  word  gladly  from 
the  elders  who  were  delivering  the  message  of  Mormonism ;  that  they 
received  and  accepted  it  with  full  purpose  of  heart,  and  that  they 
remained  faithful  and  devoted  to  the  end.  I  am  proud  of  this  organi- 
zation, the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  the  great 
American  Church,  the  Church  that  had  its  birth  in  the  land  of  free- 
dom, where  men's  minds  were  permitted  to  expand,  to  debate,  to 
question,  to  tell  their  thoughts  without  let  or  hindrance,  and  not 
where  the  mind  of  man,  as  in  some  of  the  older  counties,  had  for  ages 
been  so  "cribbed,  cabined  and  confined"  that  it  was  not  safe  to 
advance  thought  or  to  express  opinion  freely  and  frankly. 

I  am  glad  that  the  birthday  of  the  Church,  the  6th  day  of  April, 
is  also  the  birthday  of  the  nation,  for  on  the  6th  day  of  April,  1789, 
the  two  houses  of  Congress  met  and,  in  the  way  that  the  Constitution 
then  provided,  declared  George  Washington  elected  as  president  and 
John  Adams  as  vice  president  of  the  United  States.  So  we  are  proud 
that  the  Church  is  American-born  and  does  not  have  to  receive  any 
instructions  or  orders  from  any  foreign  power  or  potentate  whatsoever. 

"Freedom  and  reason  make  us  men. 

Take  these  away,  what  are  we  then? 
Mere  animals,  and  just  as  well 

The  beasts  may  think  of  heaven  or  hell." 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


We  live  in  a  land  of  freedom,  and  a  land  of  liberty,  a  glorious  land. 
And  in  these  last  days  the  Lord  has  established  his  Church  upon  the 
earth  for  the  last  time. 

MANY  SIGNS  OF  THE  TIMES 

How  do  we  know  they  are  the  last  days?  There  are  many  signs 
of  the  times  by  which  we  may  know  of  this  fact.  I  haven't  time  to 
go  into  all  that  fully,  but  just  hastily  call  your  attention  to  the  prophecy 
of  Daniel,  twelfth  chapter,  4th  verse.  Speaking  of  the  time  of  the  end 
he  said :  "Many  shall  run  to  and  fro  and  knowledge  shall  be  increased." 
Now  imagine  what  there  was  in  the  way  of  running  to  and  fro  in  his 
day,  and  all  the  succeeding  centuries  down  to  the  last  one  hundred 
years  when  the  revelation  from  Almighty  God  came  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  There  were  not  many  running  to  and  fro  in  the  earth 
in  those  days.  Now,  in  contrast,  how  many  run  to  and  fro  on  the  earth, 
on  the  seaa  under  the  sea,  and  in  a  couple  of  months  from  now  probably 
half  of  the  people  of  the  United  States  of  America  will  be  on  wheels 
running  to  and  fro  all  over  the  country.  What  a  change,  what  a  mar- 
velous change  from  the  slow  old  movement  of  even  a  hundred  years 
ago  or  less! 

Then  again,  knowledge,  he  said,  would  be  increased.  How  won- 
derfully has  that  been  fulfilled.  It  was  to  be  increased  in  the  latter 
times,  as  distinctive  from  the  former  times.  We  have  books  by  the 
millions,  newspapers,  periodicals,  magazines,  knowledge  on  every  hand. 
Then  look  at  the  last  one  hundred  years,  or  one  hundred  eight  years, 
since  the  first  revelation,  the  great  revelation  and  manifestation  came 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Even  the  railroad  was  not  in  existence 
in  1820.  From  that  time  on,  how  knowledge  has  been  increased  on 
every  hand!  Inventions  by  the  tens  of  thousands,  going  on  and  on, 
until  we  have  the  marvelous  and  wonderful  radio — my  voice  going 
out  now  on  the  air.  It  goes  around  the  world  seven  times  in  a  second ! 
So  that  people  in  any  part  of  the  United  States  who  are  within  hearing 
distance  of  this  ether  wave,  as  we  call  it,  will  hear  my  voice  as  instantly 
as  you  hear  it  in  this  building.  A  marvelous  and  wonderful  invention  ! 
It  is  not  because  the  mind  of  man  is  more  acute  in  this  age  than  in 
any  former  ages,  for  the  scientists  all  agree  that  the  mind  of  man 
was  quite  as  acute  in  the  days  of  Abraham  and  in  the  days  while  the 
Savior  was  upon  the  earth  as  it  is  now.  But  those  are  not  the  days 
and  times  mentioned  in  the  scriptures,  which  were  called  the  last  days 
and  the  fulness  of  times. 

THROUGH  THE  SPIRIT  OF  THE  LORD 

The  Lord,  through  Joel,  the  prophet,  said:  "I  will  pour  out  my 
spirit  upon  all  flesh."  The  Lord  has  poured  out  his  spirit  upon  the 
people  everywhere.  And  his  spirit  is  intelligence.  "The  glory  of  God 
is  intelligence."  Any  man,  even  an  unbeliever,  whose  mind  is  operated 
upon  to  invent  this  or  the  other  for  the  benefit  of  mankind,  is  acted 
upon  by  that  intelligent  influence  which  we  name  the  Spirit  of  the 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


87 


Lord,  whether  it  is  an  Edison  or  any  other  man.  All  intelligence  comes 
from  God.  In  other  words,  light  and  truth,  as  our  scriptures  say. 
So  that  these  inventions  which  have  been  multiplied  in  a  most  mar- 
velous manner,  have  been  brought  about  through  the  operation  of  the 
spirit  of  the  Lord. 

In  the  14th  chapter  of  the  Revelation  of  St.  John,  we  read  of  the 
coming  of  this  latter-day  work  by  the  hands  of  an.  angelic  messenger. 
John  the  Apostle,  the  beloved,  banished  on  the  Isle  of  Patmos  for  the 
testimony  of  Jesus,  was  then  the  only  one  remaining  upon  the  earth,  the 
other  disciples  by  this  time  having  gone  to  the  great  beyond.  The 
angel  of  the  Lord  told  him :  "Come  up  and  I  will  show  you  things 
that  must  come  to  pass  hereafter."  Wjhat  did  the  angel  show  him? 
Marvelous  things.  Among  others  was  this,  which  was  to  come  to 
pass  after  that  time : 

"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting 
gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to  every,  nation,  and 
kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people, 

"Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God,  and  give  glory  to  him ;  for  the  hour 
of  his  judgment  is  come." 

This  was  to  be  in  the  hour  of  God's  judgment — drawing  near  to 
the  end,  you  see — in  the  days  spoken  of  by  Joel  and  Daniel,  when 
knowledge  should  be  increased  and  many  should  run  to  and  fro.  In 
other  words,  in  the  last  days — the  set  time  in  which  all  things  are  to 
be  consummated. 

THIS  CHURCH  STANDS  ALONE 

In  1820  there  was  no  divinely  organized  Church  of  Jesus  Christ, 
with  power  and  authority  of  the  priesthood,  on  this  earth.  The  or- 
ganization of  the  Church  did  not  take  ef  fect  until  some  ten  years  later — 
April  6th,  1830.  From  the  time  of  John  the  Revelator  up  to  1820,  we 
affirm,  we  make  the  positive  declaration,  we  are  convinced  in  our  hearts 
and  souls,  for  we  have  had  it  revealed  unto  us  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  that  there  was  no  organized  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  upon 
the  earth,  with  the  authority  of  the  priesthood  to  take  a  man  down 
into  the  water  and  baptize  him,  that  his  sins  might  be  remitted,  or  to 
lay  hands  upon  his  head  and  confirm  him  a  member,  and  confer  upon 
him  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  So  that  this  Church  stands  alone 
with  respect  to  that. 

We  have  no  contention  against  any  church  or  any  people.  There 
are  many,  many  thousands  of  good  people  in  the  world,  millions  of 
them,  indeed,  who  are  faithful  believers  in  their  own  way.  But  the 
Church  of  Christ  as  an  organization — something  through  which  the 
Lord  operates,  by  his  power  and  spirit — did  not  exist  until  this  Church 
was  organized.  So  that  we  may  say  that  any  other  church  claiming 
that  authority,  claiming  the  authority  to  bind  on  earth  and  it  is  bound 
in  heaven,  is  not  recognized  by  the  Lord,  for  he  himself  has  declared 
that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  "the  only  true 
and  living  Church  upon  the  face  of  the  whole  earth." 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


NOT  FOUNDED  ON  MEN 

I  know  it  is  claimed  that  there  has  been  direct  succession  from 
Peter,  the  great  apostle.  Peter,  the  president  of  the  Twelve,  the  head, 
the  leader,  than  whom  in  many  respects  there  was  no  greater  apostle. 
We  honor  him.  The  latchet  of  his  shoes,  I  would  say,  I  am  unworthy 
to  unloose.  But  he  was  human.  This  Church  is  not  built  upon  Peter. 
It  is  not  the  Church  of  Joseph  Smith,  nor  the  Church  of  Brigham 
Young,  nor  the  Church  of  President  Grant.  It  is  not  founded  on  men. 
It  was  founded  by  direct  revelation  from  heaven.  Let  me  read  what 
the  Lord  said  with  respect  to  this: 

"When  Jesus  came  into  the  coasts  of  Caesarea  Philippi,  he  asked  the  disciples, 
saying:  Whom  do  men  say  that  I  the  Son  of  Man  am? 

"And  they  said:  Some  say  that  thou  art  John  the  Baptist;  some,  Elias ;  and 
others,  Jeremias,  or  one  of  the  prophets. 

"He  saith  unto  them,  But  whom  say  ye  that  I  am? 

"And  Simon  Peter  answered  and  said,  Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of 
the  living  God. 

"And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  him,  Blessed  art  thou,  Simon  Bar-jona: 
for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in 
heaven. 

"And  I  say  also  unto  thee,  That  thou  art  Peter,  and  upon  this  rock  I  will 
build  my  Church,  and  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  it." 

What  rock?  The  rock  of  revelation;  for  flesh  and  blood  had  not 
told  Peter,  but  it  had  been  revealed  to  him  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ. 

"I  will  give  unto  thee  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven."  Of 
course  he  did.  He  was  the  proper  man  to  give  them  to,  the  President 
of  the  Twelve. 

"And  whatsoever  thou  shalt  bind  on  earth  shall  be  bound  in  heaven ;  and 
whatsoever  thou  shalt  loose  on  earth  shall  be  loosed  in  heaven. 

"Then  charged  he  his  disciples  that  they  should  tell  no  man  that  he  was 
Jesus  the  Christ. 

"From  that  time  forth  began  Jesus  to  shew  unto  his  disciples,  how  that  he 
must  go  unto  Jerusalem,  and  suffer  many  things  of  the  elders  and  chief  priest" 
and  scribes,  and  be  killed,  and  be  raised  again  the  third  day." 

THE  HUMAN  PETER 

Now  right  here,  Peter,  the  human  being,  on  whom  was  conferred 
this  great  authority,  just  as  today  by  divine  appointment,  is  conferred 
that  same  power,  on  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  the  president  of  this 
Church,  a  human  being  like  you  and  me,  and  like  Peter — right  at  this 
point  I  read:  "Then  Peter  took  him,  and  began  to  rebuke  him"  (Peter 
the  human  being,  undertaking  to  rebuke  the  Savior!)  "saying,  Be  it 
far  from  thee,  Lord,  this  shall  not  be  unto  thee."  We  will  not  allow 
these  men  to  take  you  and  kill  you — no  sir.  What  was  the  answer 
of  the  Savior? 

"But  he  turned,  and  said  unto  Peter :  Get  thee  behind  me  Satan,  thou  art 
an  offense  unto  me :  for  thou  savorest  not  the  things  that  be  of  God,  but 
those  that  be  of  men."— Matt.  16:13-23. 

That  was  the  human  Peter,  as  all  men  are  human.    Joseph  Smith, 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


8Q 


great  as  he  was,  the  forerunner,  the  man  chosen  probably  before  the 
foundations  of  this  earth  were  laid  to  usher  in  the  great  and  last  dis- 
pensation of  the  fulness  of  times,  was  human.  He  was  Joseph  Smith ; 
he  was  not  God.  This  Church  is  not  founded  on  him  any  more  than 
on  Peter,  to  whom  the  Savior  had  to  say :  "Get  thee  behind  me,  Satan." 
You  don't  know  what  you  are  talking  about,  Peter. 

So  I  repeat  that  the  rock  upon  which  this  Church  is  founded  is 
the  rock  of  revelation.  What  is  revelation?  If  you  will  turn  to  your 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  in  the  eighth  section,  you  will  find  this  defini- 
tion of  revelation.  The  Lord  speaks  to  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery : 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  REVELATION 

"Yea,  behold,  I  will  tell  you  in  your  mind  and  in  your  heart,  by  the  Holy 
Ghost,  which  shall  come  upon  you  and  which  shall  dwell  in  your  heart. 

"Now,  behold,  this  is  the  spirit  of  revelation;  behold,  this  is  the  spirit  by 
which  Moses  brought  the  children  of  Israel  through  the  Red  Sea  on  dry  ground." 

Do  we  have  revelations  today?  Is  President  Grant  guided  by 
revelation?  Certainly,  just  in  that  kind  of  way,  ready  to  receive  the 
promptings  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  as  they  shall  be  given  by  the  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Have  we  the  same  power  and  the  same  oppor- 
tunity to  receive  the  spirit  of  revelation?  Certainly  we  have.  Why, 
every  member  of  this  Church,  every  last  one  who  is  living  as  he  should, 
keeping  the  commandments  of  God,  receives  that  testimony,  and  is 
thereby  founded  upon  that  rock  which  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  delivered 
unto  him,  but  which  our  Father  in  heaven  has  revealed.  And  upon 
this  rock  he  builds  his  Church. 

There  isn't  time  to  go  into  further  discussion  of  this  matter.  I 
will  have  to  hurry,  but  I  want  to  read  what  St.  Paul  said  in  his  first 
epistle  to  the  Corinthians  (2nd  chapter,  1st  to  5th  verses)  in  respect  to 
the  resurrection  of  Christ,  and  I  think  it  fits  me  and  fits  every  member 
of  the  Priesthood,  in  going  out  to  proclaim  the  gospel,  to  stick  jus* 
to  the  one  great  text. 

WHAT  PAUI-  SAIP 

"When  I  came  to  you,  I  came  not  with  excellency  of  speech,  or  of  wisdom, 
declaring  unto  you  the  testimony  of  God." 

We  are  not  depending  so  much  on  excellency  of  speech,  though  we 
are  glad  to  hear  it. 

"For  I  determined  not  to  know  any  thing  among  you,  save  Jesus  Christ, 
and  him  crucified. 

"And  I  was  with  you  in  weakness,  and  in  fear,  and  in  much  trembling. 

"And  my  speech  and  my  preaching  was  not  with  enticing  words  of  man's 
wisdom,  but  in  demonstration  of  the  spirit  and  of  power. 

"That  your  faith  should  not  stand  in  the  wisdom  of  men.  but  in  the  power 
of  God." 

That  is  Mormonism.  Stick  to  the  one  message — Jesus  Christ  and 
him  crucified;  Joseph  Smith  receiving  the  everlasting  gospel  from  an- 
gelic beings,  as  John  on  the  Isle  of  Patmos  declared,  coming  at  the 
time  of  the  end  when  all  these  things  are  being  fulfilled. 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


COVENANTS  WITH  HOUSE  OF  ISRAEL 

Just  one  other  citation  that  I  want  to  give  you  and  then  I  am 
through.  In  the  Book  of  Mormon  we  have  a  prophecy  of  the  time 
of  the  end.  You  will  find  it  in  the  14th  chapter  of  First  Nephi.  I 
haven't  the  time  to  read  the  whole  chapter: 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  the  angel  had  spoken  these  words, 
he  said  unto  me :  Rememberest  thou  the  covenants  of  the  Father  unto 
the  house  of  Israel  ?" — the  covenants  that  had  been  made  unto  Abraham 
not  yet  fulfilled,  but  in  the  way  of  fulfillment.  The  time  is  here,  the 
covenants  are  being  fulfilled.  General  Allenby,  in  the  World  War, 
marched  into  Palestine  and  freed  that  country  from  its  oppressors,  and 
since  then  that  work  has  been  going  on.  That  is  what  the  angel  a 
thousand  years  ago  asked  Nephi  in  that  question : 

"Rememberest  thou  the  covenants  of  the  Father  unto  the  house  of  Israel? 
1  said  unto  him,  Yea. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  he  said'unto  me:  Look,  and  behold  that  great  and 
abominable  church,  which  is  the  mother  of  abominations,  whose  foundation  is 
the  devil." 

I  now  skip  some  verses  to  hurry  on. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  beheld  that  the  wrath  of  God  was  poured  out 
upon  the  great  and  abominable  church,  insomuch  that  there  were  wars  and 
rumors  of  wars  among  all  the  nations  and  kindreds  of  the  earth." 

THE   FIRST   WORLD  WAR 

Let  me  call  your  attention  to  this  fact,  that  until  the  World  War, 
all  the  nations  and  kindreds  of  the  earth  had  never  been  involved  in 
one  great  war  before. 

When  Columbus  discovered  America,  he  found  the  new  world.  So 
prior  to  that  time  all  the  nations  and  all  the  kindreds  of  the  earth  could 
not  be  involved  in  war  together.  Since  1492  we  have  the  most  accurate 
history  of  all  the  wars,  and  all  the  nations  and  kindreds  of  the  earth 
were  for  the  first  time  involved  in  this  great  struggle. 

"And  as  there  began  to  be  wars  and  rumors  of  wars  among  all  the  nations 
which  belonged  to  the  mother  of  abominations  the  angel  spake  unto  me,  saying : 
Behold,  the  wrath  of  God  is  upon  the  mother  of  harlots ;  and  behold,  thou 
seest  all  these  things — 

"And  when  the  day  cometh  that  the  wrath  of  God  is  poured  out  upon  the 
mother  of  harlots,  which  is  the  great  and  abominable  church  of  all  the  earth, 
whose  foundation  is  the  devil,  then,  at  that  day,  the  work  of  the  Father  shall 
commence,  in  preparing  the  way  for  the  fulfilling  of  his  covenants,  which  he 
hath  made  to  his  people  who  are  of  the  house  of  Israel." 

Now  the  question  will  come :  Define  that  Church.  What  Church 
is  it?  The  Lord  defines  it  so  you  can  tell.  Find  any  church  that  is 
great,  that  is  abominable,  whose  foundation  is  the  devil,  and  upon  which 
the  wrath  of  God  is  poured  out  in  the  last  days,  and  then  you  have  it. 
I  can't  define  it  any  other  way. 

The  Lord  help  us  to  know,  by  the  power  of  revelation,  that  this 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


91 


is  his  Church,  that  it  is  not  founded  upon  Peter  or  Paul  or  Joseph  or 
Heber,  or  any  other  human  being,  but  only  upon  the  power  and  authority 
of  the  living  God,  and  upon  the  solid  rock  of  revelation  from  Almighty 
God.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Certainly  Zion  is  growing.  I  hope  some  time  we  will  be  able  to 
have  an  auditorium  that  will  hold  all  who  would  like  to  attend  our 
meetings. 

We  have  learned  that  the  majority  of  the  people  prefer  to  hear  the 
sermons  that  are  preached  in  this  building  on  Sundays,  rather  than 
attend  overflow  meetings.  For  that  reason  we  have  discontinued  the 
meetings  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  and  are  giving  the  people  who  can  not 
get  into  the  tabernacle  the  privilege  of  sitting  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and 
other  places  and  listening  to  the  singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
the  remarks  that  are  made  from  this  stand,  as  they  are  broadcast  over 
the  radio. 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

"Why  should  it  be  thought  a  thing  incredible  with  you,  that  GM 
should  raise  the  dead?" 

This  question  was  put  by  Paul  to  King  Agrippa  when  the  Apostle 
stood  a  prisoner  in  bonds  because  of  his  testimony  of  Christ,  about 
thirty  years  after  our  Lord's  resurrection.  At  that  time  the  Saints 
were  persecuted  on  account  of  their  persistent  testimony  of  the  Christ, 
crucified  and  risen.  The  powerful  Sadducees  of  that  day  condemned 
the  doctrine  of  a  resurrection ;  the  Pharisees  professed  vague  concepts 
of  resurrection  of  or  from  the  dead,  in  the  sense  of  there  being  some 
awakening  of  the  Spirit  that  had  been  asleep ;  but  only  those  who  had 
accepted  the  testimony  of  the  Christ  believed  in  the  absolute  and  literal 
resurrection. 

TRUTH  NOT  CONDITIONED  BY  HUMAN  COMPREHENSION 

This.,day  is  observed  throughout  Christendom  in  commemoration  of 
the  greatest  event  of  history — the  coming  forth  of  the  crucified  body  of 
the  Christ  as  the  tabernacle  of  his  immortal  spirit,  he  a  resurrected  soul, 
the  first  man  to  thus  rise  from  death  to  immortality  upon  this  earth, 
"the  first  fruits  of  them  that  slept,"  "the  first-born  of  the  dead."  In 
this  day  of  higher  criticism,  of  skepticism  and  doubt,  there  are  many  of 
the  learned  and  wise — learned  and  wise  in  their  own  estimation  and 
that  of  their  fellows — who  proclaim  the  impossibility  of  any  process  of 
resurrection.  Are  not  such  men  seeking  to  limit  the  power  of  God  and 
to  make  him  a  falsifier? 

Can  there  be  nothing  but  what  we  are  able  to  understand  and  explain 
as  to  means,  mode,  and  accomplishment?  This  would  be  a  poverty- 
stricken  world  if  it  knew  nothing  but  what  man  can  explain  and  ex- 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


pound.  Shall  it  be  that  because  we  cannot  do  a  thing,  we  shall  say  it 
cannot  be  done,  even  by  a  higher  power?  The  resurrection  of  Christ 
had .  been  foretold ;  the  predictions  concerning  his  coming  forth  were 
literally  and  actually  realized.  Even  those  who  were  nearest  unto  him 
were  unable  to  comprehend  his  own  prophecies  concerning  his  resur- 
rection, and  at  first  doubted  the  fulfilment.  After  he  had  come  forth 
from  the  tomb  there  were  some  of  the  disciples,  aye,  even  of  the 
Apostles,  who  treated  the  report  as  an  idle  tale.  They  could  not  com- 
prehend that  which  had  never  been  known  to  have  taken  place  before. 
They  lacked  analogy,  they  had  nothing  with  which  to  compare  the 
unprecedented  event,  and  resurrection  to  them  meant  much  as  it  meant 
to  the  Pharisees. 

AT  THE  TOMB  AS  PREDICTED 

On  that  Sunday  morn,  the  third  day  after  the  body  of  the  Christ 
had  been  laid  away  in  the  rock-hewn  tomb  of  Joseph  of  Arimathea, 
Mary,  the  devoted  woman  of  Magdala,  and  other  women,  had  gone  to 
the  sepulcher  to  give  tender  ministry  by  external  embalmment  of  the 
Lord's  body.  On  the  way  they  questioned  how  they  would  gain  en- 
trance to  the  tomb ;  as  to  who  would  roll  away  the  great  stone  that 
sealed  the  entrance  to  the  sepulcher.  When  they  arrived  they  were 
astonished  and  affrighted,  for  notwithstanding  the  imperial  seal  of 
Caesar  that  had  been  placed  on  the  portal,  in  spite  of  the  guard  of 
soldiery,  the  tomb  was  open.  There  sat  upon  the  stone  an  angelic 
being,  glorious  in  appearance.  He  spoke  to  comfort  them,  but  they 
were  terrified;  yet  the  angel  said:  "Fear  not  ye;  for  I  know  that  ye 
seek  Jesus,  which  was  crucified.  He  is  not  here ;  for  he  is  risen,  as 
he  said.  Come,  see  the  place  where  the  Lord  lay.  And  go  quickly, 
and  tell  his  disciples  that  he  is  risen  from  the  dead. 

They  carried  back  the  gladsome  glorious  word  that  the  tomb  no 
longer  held  the  body  of  their  Master ;  but  the  disciples  could  not  under- 
stand, notwithstanding  the  fact  that  the  Lord  had\>re(hcted  to  them, 
and  that  but  a  few  days  before — the  last  of  many  declarations  of  the 
sort — that  he  would  be  slain,  and  that  on  the  third  day  he  would  rise 
again.  "Let  these  sayings  sink  down  into  your  ears,"  he  had  said  unto 
them  of  slow  understanding  and  of  seeming  unbelief,  as  he  told  again 
of  his  impending  death,  with  which  on  other  occasions  he  coupled 
assurances  of  his  rising  from  the  dead ;  yet  they  questioned  among 
themselves  as  to  what  he  could  mean  by  rising  from  the  dead. 

ON  THE  WAY  TO  EMMAUS 

The  events  followed  one  another  in  rapid  succession  on  that  most 
memorable  Sunday  in  all  history.  You  know  the  record  of  the  two 
disciples,  not  of  the  Apostles,  Cleopas  and  a  companion,  who  were 
wending  their  way  along  the  country  road,  leading  to  Emmaus ;  how 
another  Traveler  joined  them ;  how  their  eyes  were  holden  so  that  they 
recognized  him  not ;  how  he  questioned  them,  not  to  gain  information 
for  himself  but  to  give  them  opportunity,  as  every  true  teacher  gives 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


93 


his  pupils  a  chance,  to  express  themselves.  He  asked  them  what  was 
the  subject  of  their  solemn  conversation,  and  they  voiced  their  surprise 
that  he,  even  if  he  were  a  stranger  in  Jerusalem,  had  not  heard  of  the 
great  events  of  the  preceding  few  days.  They  told  their  story;  then 
he  expounded  unto  them  the  scriptures,  even  from  the  first,  showing 
that  it  was  necessary  that  Christ  should  suffer  death,  and  that  he  was 
surely  to  come  forth  from  the  tomb,  as  the  prophets  had  foretold — 
and  yet  the  wayfarers  recognized  him  not.  Not  until  they  were  seated 
at  table  in  the  little  cottage  in  Emmaus,  not  until  the  honored  Guest 
whom  they  had  invited  to  tarry  with  them  broke  the  bread  and  blessed 
it,  did  they  know  him.  We  are  not  told  whether  perchance  they  caught 
sight  of  the  nail-prints  in  his  hands,  or  whether  they  were  moved  by 
remembrance  of  other  similar  blessings,  voiced  by  him  and  heard  by 
them  before,  or  by  what  circumstance  it  was,  but  they  knew  him,  and 
he  vanished  from  their  sight. 

MANIFESTATIONS  TO  THE  DISCIPLES 

The  two  men  hastened  back  to  Jerusalem,  where  ten  of  the  Apostles 
and  other  disciples  had  assembled,  locked  in,  by  way  of  precaution 
against  possible  intrusion  by  some  of  the  many  enemies  who  were 
seeking  their  lives.  They  told  their  story  to  the  newly  arrived  disciples. 
He  is  risen !  He  has  appeared  unto  Simon,  they  declared ;  and  while 
the  little  company  talked  and  rejoiced  together  the  Lord  stood  there 
amongst  them,  and  they  were  sorely  frightened.  They  had  talked  of  his 
having  been  resurrected,  of  his  having  come  back  to  life,  and  yet  they 
were  afraid.  They  thought  they  saw  a  ghost !  He  calmed  their  fears. 
"Peace  be  unto  you.  *  *  *  Behold  my  hands  and  my  feet,  that  it 
is  I  myself;  handle  me  and  see;  for  a  spirit  hath  not  flesh  and  bones, 
as  ye  see  me  have."  And  yet  they  could  scarcely  believe  for  the  joy 
of  it!  The  demonstrated  fact  seemed  to  them  too  good  to  be  true. 
To  make  plain  that  he  was  a  corporeal  being  in  the  sense  of  having  a 
tangible  body,  no  mere  outward  shape  or  semblance  only,  he  asked 
if  they  had  anything  to  eat,  and  they  brought  honey  and  other  food  to 
him  and  he  did  eat  before  them,  demonstrating  that  his  body  was  com- 
plete, with  internal  organs  as  well  as  external  parts. 

Can  a  resurrected  being  eat  food  of  earth?  A  resurrected  being 
can  function  upon  any  lower  plane.  A  resurrected  personage  can  do 
anything  that  a  mortal  personage  can  do,  and  much  besides. 

One  of  the  eleven,  Thomas,  was  absent;  and  when  they  told  him 
what  had  taken  place  he  could  not  believe.  He  was  yet  skeptical.  Don't 
blame  him.  We  know  not  what  tradition  was  doing  in  his  mind.  We 
may  not  know  the  limitations  of  his  powers  of  understanding,  but  he 
was  very  much  like  some  people  of  this  day.  "I  can't  believe  it,"  he 
said  in  effect,  "not  until  I  can  see,  not  until  I  can  feel  his  hands  and 
his  feet — I  shall  have  to  examine  those  wounds  and  thrust  my  finger 
into  his  side  before  I  can  believe."  After  eight  days,  that  is  to  say,  a 
week  later,  the  next  Sunday,  which  day  of  the  week  thenceforth  became 
the  Sabbath,  the  Lord's  day,  Christ  appeared  unto  them  again  and 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Thomas  was  there.  It  was  an  affecting  occasion:  Thomas,  come, 
see  and  feel !  Thomas,  convinced,  bowed  in  worship,  exclaiming  only : 
"My  Lord  and  my  God."  "Thomas,  because  thou  hast  seen  me,  thou 
hast  believed:  blessed  are  they  that  have  not  seen  and  yet  have 
believed." 

IN  THE  REALM  OF  THE  DEAD 

Through  the  ministration  of  the  spirit  of  wisdom  and  knowledge, 
of  light  and  truth,  Christ  had  predicted  what  he  would  do  while  his 
body  lay  in  the  tomb ;  read  for  yourselves  those  scriptures.  But  a  short 
time  before  the  crucifixion  he  had  said  unto  the  people:  "Verily,  verily, 
I  say  unto  you :  the  hour  is  coming  and  now  is  when  the  dead  shall 
hear  the  voice  of  the  Son  of  God,  and  they  that  hear  shall  live.  *  * 
Marvel  not  at  this,  for  the  hour  is  coming  in  the  which  all  that  are  in 
the  graves  shall  hear  his  voice,  and  shall  come  forth;  they  that  have 
done  good  unto  the  resurrection  of  life,  and  they  that  have  done  evil 
unto  the  resurrection  of  damnation."  A  reiteration  of  the  sublime 
principles  comprised  in  that  scripture  has  been  made  in  this  modern 
day,  and  the  two  resurrections  are  spoken  of  by  the  voice  of  the  Lord 
to  Joseph  Smith  as  the  resurrection  of  the  just  and  the  resurrection  of 
the  unjust.  Furthermore  it  hath  been  declared  that  all  who  have 
breathed  the  air  of  earth,  all  who  have  tabernacled  in  bodies  composed 
of  the  elements  of  this  planet,  shall  be  resurrected.  The  separation  of 
spirit  from  body  is  but  temporary. 

lucifer's  design  foiled 

You  know  the  great  plan  that  was  laid  in  the  councils  of  heaven 
before  the  earth  was  framed,  that  men  should  be  sent  upon  the  earth, 
that  is,  the  spirits  of  men,  to  take  upon  themselves  bodies.  Lucifer, 
a  son  of  the  morning,  and  his  followers,  comprising  a  third  of  the 
spirit-hosts,  had  opposed  the  plan  that  the  Father  had  proposed,  and 
he  and  his  followers,  Lucifer  and  his  angels,  were  cast  out  upon  the 
earth,  and  straightway  they  sought  to  nullify  the  Father's  decree  and 
to  destroy  those  bodies  into  which  the  preexistent  spirits  would  enter 
to  work  out  their  mortal  probation.  Lucifer,  known  upon  earth  as 
Satan,  gained  a  temporary  triumph ;  he  succeeded  in  bringing  death  into 
the  world,  and  doubtless  there  was  rejoicing  amongst  his  demon  sub- 
jects. What  would  become  of  the  great  plan  of  giving  those  spirits 
bodies  upon  the  earth  when  death  had  come  in  and  had  forced  a 
separation  of  spirit  and  body,  and  had  brought  the  body  to  decay,  re- 
solving it  into  its  elements?  What  now  would  be  accomplished  by  the 
decision  of  the  council  in  carrying  out  the  plan  of  the  Father? 

Christ's  attributes — human  and  divine 

Separation  of  spirit  &nd  body  was  foreseen  and  provided  for,  for 
in  due  time  came  the  Only  Begotten  Son  of  the  Father,  the  only  being 
who  has  ever  walked  the  earth,  from  Adam  down,  not  the  child  of  two 
mortal  parents,  father  and  mother.    Christ,  the  Son  of  a  mortal  woman 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


95 


but  not  begotten  by  a  mortal  father,  combined  within  himself  the  powers 
of  Godship  and  the  attributes  of  mortality.  How  else  can  we  explain 
his  own  declaration  that  he  had  life  in  himself?  Consider  his  words 
as  part  of  that  sublime  sermon  on  the  shepherd  and  the  sheep,  in  which 
he  made  plain  that  he  was  the  good  shepherd  and  the  only  true  shepherd 
of  the  Lord's  flock.  He  said  unto  the  people:  "Therefore  doth  my 
Father  love  me,  because  I  lay  down  my  life  that  I  might  take  it  again. 
No  man  taketh  it  from  me,  but  I  lay  it  down  of  myself.  I  have  power 
to  lay  it  down,  and  I  have  power  to  take  it  again;"  and  he  added  this 
comment  regarding  his  power,  capacity,  and  ability :  "This  command- 
ment have  I  received  of  my  Father" — by  which  we  may  understand 
that  from  his  Father  lie  had  derived,  by  heredity,  the  power  to  rise 
from  mortality  to  immortality. 

He  could  have  said:  "From  my  mother  I  have  inherited  the  power 
to  die,  for  she  was  a  mortal  woman ;  and  from  my  Father,  who  was  no 
mortal  man,  I  have  received  this  power  to  hold  death  in  abeyance.  I 
have  power  to  lay  down  my  life  and  I  have  power  to  take  it  up  again. 
No  man  can  kill  me  until  I  am  ready,  not  until  my  hour  shall  come  and 
I  shall  give  up  my  life.  I  am  here  for  that  foreordained  purpose,  as 
a  consummation  of  this  part  of  my  work."  He  followed  his  work  to  the 
end.  We  read  that  when  he  was  able  to  utter  those  words  of  triumph — 
■and  they  must  have  been  words  of  exultation  to  him :  "It  is  finished," 
that  he  "gave  up  the  ghost." 

Oh  yes,  they  killed  him,  that  is,  they  killed  him  from  their  point  of 
view,  but  not  until  he  had  finished  his  work  did  he  relinquish  his  life. 
While  he  lived  among  men,  he  was  preeminently  the  Man  among  men. 
So  during  his  period  of  disembodiment  he  was  preeminently  the  Spirit 
among  spirits  in  the  realm  of  the  disembodied.  To  them  he  went  and 
opened  the  work  of  preaching  amongst  the  spirits  who  had  lived  in 
bodies  upon  the  earth,  men  and  women  who  had  died. 

ACTUALITY  OF  THE  RESURRECTION 

The  resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ  was  absolutely  literal.  He  took 
up  that  body  from  the  tomb  as  it  had  been  laid  down,  for  it  had  been 
predicted  that  he  should  not  see  corruption.  The  body  bore  all  the 
marks  of  the  crucifiers.  So  shall  the  resurrection  of  everyone  be 
literal  in  this  sense — that  although  these  bodies  go  to  decay,  by  the 
power  of  God  shall  all  their  essential  parts  be  brought  together  again. 
When  we  stand  before  the  bar  of  God  we  shall  stand  with  spirit  and 
body  reunited,  inseparably  connected,  and  it  is  through  the  union  of 
spirit  and  body,  inseparably  united,  that  a  fulness'  of  joy  is  made  possible. 

Such  is  the  Lord's  plan  to  bring  about  the  immortality  and  the 
eternal  life  of  man.  Immediately  following,  or  soon  after  the  resur- 
rection of  Christ,  many  of  the  righteous  dead  came  forth  from  their 
graves  and  were  seen  by  mortals ;  other  resurrections  have  followed, 
according  to  the  appointed  order  in  the  resurrection  of  the  just.  Christ 
came  thus  and  robbed  the  grave  of  its  victory,  assuring  the  eventual 
resurrection  of  all  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God  who  have  tabernacled 
here  upon  the  earth. 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Let  us  rejoice  on  this  Easter  day,  commemorative  of  the  coming 
forth  of  the  Christ  from  the  tomb.  It  falls  this  year  very  close  to  the 
actual  anniversary. 

Easter,  as  you  know,  is  a  movable  feast,  fixed  by  decree  of  the 
Catholic  Church.  But  this  year  it  falls  very  close  to  the  actual  day  on 
which  the  Christ  came  forth  from  the  tomb.  We  have  great  reason  to 
rejoice  in  the  glorious  blessing  of  the  resurrection  that  is  assured  unto 
us.  We  should  know  further  that  during  the  period  of  our  disem- 
bodiment we  are  not  to  be  inactive.  We  have  to  follow  up  the  work  of 
the  Lord  among  the  disembodied,  even  as  we  are  commissioned  to  do 
his  work  here  upon  the  earth.  Death  is  no  overwhelming  change  by 
which  the  spirit  loses  its  power  of  thought,  or  other  of  its  God-given 
attributes.  The  spirit  retains  such  and  is  active  in  the  world  of  spirits, 
and  will  so  exist  and  function  until  the  time  for  the  reunion  with  the 
body,  and  when  the  work  reserved  for  that  stage  of  human  progress 
will  be  taken  up. 

MAN  IS  OF  ETERNAL  NATURE 

Great  is  the  plan  of  God  with  respect  to  his  children,  extending 
through  the  eternity  that  lies  beyond.  Right  thankful  should  we  be 
for  the  knowledge  that  has  been  given  to  us  through  revelation.  Man 
could  never  have  attained  to  a  knowledge  of  these  glorious  truths  by 
his  own  reasoning,  by  deduction  or  original  conception.  There  are 
truths  that  man  cannot  find  out;  they  have  to  be  given  unto  him. 
cardinal,  basal  truths,  and  this  is  one  of  them.  Forget  not  that  we  are 
eternal !  We  had  an  existence  before  we  were  born.  In  that  existence 
you  were  you  and  I  was  I  before  our  spirits  entered  into  these  bodies. 
You  will  be  yon  and  I  shall  be  I  after  the  change  called  death  befalls 
us.  We  shall  maintain  our  identity,  or  it  shall  be  preserved  unto  us, 
through  and  beyond  the  resurrection;  for  we  are  eternal!  How  could 
it  be  otherwise,  when  we  are  the  children  of  the  Eternal  One  ?  Let  us 
rejoice  in  this  knowledge,  which  surpasses  the  wisdom  of  men,  and 
shape  our  lives  accordingly.  To  this  end  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name 
of  the  Resurrected  Lord.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  two  verses  of  the  hymn,  "Jesus  once  of  humble 
birth." 

A  duet,  "An  angel  from  on  high,"  was  sung  by  Laurinda  P. 
Brewerton  and  Donna  Cox  Gunderson,  the  choir  and  congregation 
joining  in  the  chorus. 

AN  ANGEL  FROM  ON  HIGH 

An  angel  from  on  high, 

The  long,  long  silence  broke ; 
Descending  from  the  sky, 

These  gracious  words  he  spoke  : 
Lo !  in  Cumorah's  lonely  hill, 
A  sacred  record  lies  concealed. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


97 


Sealed  by  Moroni's  hand, 

It  has  for  ages  lain, 
To  wait  the  Lord's  command, 

From  dust  to  speak  again. 
It  shall  again  to  light  come  forth, 
To  usher  in  Christ's  reign  on  earth. 

It  speaks  of  Joseph's  seed, 

And  makes  the  remnant  known 
Of  nations  long  since  dead, 

Who  once  had  dwelt  alone. 
The  fulness  of  the  Gospel,  too, 
Its  pages  will  reveal  to  view. 

The  time  is  now  fulfilled, 

The  long  expected  day ; 
Let  earth  obedience  yield, 

And  darkness  flee  away ; 
Remove  the  seals,  be  wide  unfurled 
Tts  light  and  glory  to  the  world. 

Lo,  Israel  filled  with  joy, 

Shall  now  be  gathered  home, 
Their  wealth  and  power  employ 

To  build  Jerusalem; 
While  Zion  shall  arise  and  shine; 
And  fill  the  earth  with  truth  divine. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

If  Parley  P.  Pratt  had  written  nothing  else  but  this  hymn  to 
which  we  have  just  listened,  it  would  have  immortalized  him.  He 
has,  however,  written  more  of  the  inspired  hymns  that  are  in  our- 
hymn  book  than  any  other  of  our  writers. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  California  Mission 

'  I  feel  very  highly  honored,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  being 
accorded  this  privilege.  It  is  marvelous  to  me  that  I  should  be  permitted 
to  stand  before  you.  I  feel  in  my  soul  that  it  is  good  to  be  here  on 
this  occasion,  and  I  most  fervently  thank  the  Lord  that  the  teachings 
that  have  been  imparted  to  us  in  this  session  of  our  conference  find 
lodgment  in  my  soul,  and  fill  me  with  that  joy  that  passeth  under- 
standing. 

I  will  read  a  word  or  two  from  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  that 
I  think  very  important  in  connection  with  the  great  work  in  which  we 
are  engaged.  1  suppose  it  is  but  reasonable  that,  as  a  missionary,  my 
own  mind  should  reflect  upon  matters  pertaining  to  the  preaching  of  the 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


gospel  abroad  among  the  nations.  There  has  been  much  given  in  the 
revelations  of  the  Lord  concerning  the  importance  of  carrying  the 
gospel  to  the  nations  of  the  world.  I  do  not  know  whether  it  is  com- 
mon today  for  men  to  seek  to  know  the  mind  and  will  of  the  Lord 
regarding  those  things  which  would  be  most  important  for  them  to  do 
that  the  Lord's  work  might  be  forwarded.  There  are  many  revelations 
in  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  indicating  that  in  the  early 
days  of  the  Church  men  frequently  sought  the  prophet  of  the  Lord 
to  know  what  would  be  most  important  for  them  to  do ;  and  the  Lord 
answered.    I  will  read  one  of  those  revelations: 

"Hearken,  my  servant  John,  and  listen  to  the  words  of  Jesus  Christ,  your 
Lord  and  your  Redeemer. 

"For  behold,  I  speak  unto  you  with  sharpness  and  with  power,  for  mine  arm 
is  over  all  the  earth. 

"And  I  will  tell  you  that  which  no  man  knoweth  save  me  and  thee  alone — 

"For  many  times  you  have  desired  of  me  to  know  that  which  would  be  of 
the  most  worth  unto  you. 

"Behold,  blessed  are  you  for  this  thing,  and  for  speaking  my  words  which  I 
have  given  you  according  to  my  commandments. 

"And  now,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  the  thing  which  will  be  of  the  most 
worth  unto  you  will  be  to  declare  repentance  unto  this  people,  that  you  may 
bring  souls  unto  me,  that  you  may  rest  with  them  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father." 

The  Lord  himself  has  declared  the  following  in  relation  to  the 
value  of  the  souls  of  men : 

"Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of  God ; 

"For,  behold,  the  Lord  your  Redeemer  suffered  death  in  the  flesh ;  wherefore 
he  suffered  the  pain  of  all  men,  that  all  men  might  repent  and  come  unto  him. 

"And  he  hath  risen  again  from  the  dead,  that  he  might  bring  all  men  unto 
him,  on  conditions  of  repentance. 

"And  how  great  is  his  joy  in  the  soul  that  repenteth ! 

"Wherefore,  you  are  called  to  cry  repentance  unto  this  people. 

"And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your  days  in  crying  repentance 
unto  this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be- one  soul  unto  me,  how  great  shall  be 
your  joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father!" 

The  importance  of  carrying  the  message  of  the  gospel  has  not 
only  been  declared  in  the  revelations  that  have  been  given  in  the  dis- 
pensation in  which  we  live,  but  the  same  importance  was  comprehended 
by  the  servants  of  God  in  the  meridian  of  time.  The  Apostle  Paul 
declared : 

"For  though  I  preach  the  gospel,  I  have  nothing  to  glory  of :  for  necessity  is 
laid  upon  me;  yea,  woe  unto  me  if  I  preach  not  the  gospel!" 

A  dispensation  of  the  gospel  had  been  committed  unto  Paul,  and 
he  knew  that  woe  would  be  unto  him  if  he  preached  not  the  gospel. 

Much  more  might  be  brought  forth  from  the  word  of  God  in 
relation  to  this  very  important  matter.  I  am  wondering  whether  the 
men  of  the  Priesthood  who  are  at  home  in  the  midst  of  the  people  in 
the  Zion  of  the  Lord,  feel  the  importance  of  the  commandment  of  God 
in  relation  to  the  carrying  of  the  gospel  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth. 
I  think  I  would  but  voice  the  sentiments  of  mission  presidents  if  I 
made  the  declaration  that  in  every  mission  of  these  United  States  and  the 
countries  adjoining  our  nation,  people  are  perishing  for  the  word  of  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 


99 


Lord.  There  are  opportunities  abounding  on  every  hand  for  the  pro- 
clamation of  the  gospel,  and  we  are  crying  out  until  I  suppose  we  be- 
come almost  an  annoyance  to  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints:  "Give  us  more  missionaries!"  That  is 
the  cry  from  California.  There  is  a  feeling  with  some  people,  that 
there  is  not  much  necessity  for  the  word  of  the  Lord,  or  for  religious 
doctrine  in  the  state  of  California,  as  Californians  are  supposed  to  be 
concerned  about  pleasure  alone.  Well,  I  thank  God  that  there  are  many 
earnest,  God-fearing  men  and  women  in  the  state  of  California.  We 
are  finding  a  few  of  them,  and  we  would  find  more  if  we  had  more 
men  and  women  to  bear  witness  concerning  the  truth.  We  need  many 
more.  I  would  like  to  plead  with  the  men  of  the  Priesthood,  presid- 
ing men,  that  they  feel  in  their  hearts  the  necessity  of  sending  the 
servants  of  the  Lord  abroad  in  the  nations  with  the  truths  of  the  gospel. 
I  would  like  to  make  a  plea  among  all  men  and  among  women  who 
are  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  that 
they  cultivate  a  desire  to  engage  in  the  proclamation  of  the  gospel. 
I  understand  that  I  am  under  the  same  obligation  as  the  Apostle  Paul, 
and  that  unto  me,  in  connection  with  my  brethren;  a  dispensation 
of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  has  been  committed,  and  woe 
will  be  unto  me  if  I  preach  not  the  gospel.  I  want  to  say,  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  that  woe  will  be  unto  all  men  who  bear  the  authority  of 
priesthood  if  they  do  not  desire  to  labor  and  do  not  labor  to  the  extent 
of  their  power,  that  the  glorious  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  which 
is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  be  sounded  among  the  inhabitants 
of  the  earth.  If  you  desire  to  bless  your  sons  and  your  daughters,  and 
to  establish  them  in  the  work  of  the  living  God,  give  them  an  oppor- 
tunity, if  they  are  of  proper  character,  and  if  they  have  the  proper 
desire  in  their  hearts,  to  go  abroad  as  missionaries.  If  there  be  anything 
else  in  this  world  that  establishes  the  feet  of  young  men  and  women 
in  the  right  path,  and  reveals  to  them  the  truth  of  the  gospel  in  the 
same  wonderful  manner  that  missionary  service  does,  I  do  not  know 
what  it  is. 

I  listened  with  very  great  joy  to  the  testimony  of  our  Commissioner 
of  Education  that  there  had  come  to  him  in  periods  of  trial  and  anxiety 
the  whisperings  of  the  Lord,  the  revelations  of  the  Lord,  establishing 
in  his  soul  a  knowledge  concerning  the  existence  of  God  our  Father  in 
heaven.  Thanks  be  to  God  for  such  whisperings.  I  want  to  say  to 
you  that  God  is  no  respecter  of  persons.  Men  who  are  educated,  who 
humbly  seek  the  Lord,  receive"  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  and  the 
testimony  of  his  word ;  and  men  who  are  not  educated  receive  by  the 
same  marvelous  power  the  same  convincing  evidence.  It  has  been  my 
pleasure  just  within  a  few  weeks  to  listen  to  the  testimony  of  the  gospel 
from  the  lips  of  young  girls  and  young  boys,  trembling  with  fear,  their 
eyes  moistened  with  tears,  yet  with  joy  in  their  souls,  bearing  witness 
that  God  lives,  and  that  that  knowledge  has  come  to  them  by  the  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost.  I  thank  God  for  that.  I  am  also  glad  that  the 
Lord,  in  his  mercy,  has  revealed  to  me  that  this  is  his  work,  the 
marvelous  work  promised  by  the  voice  of  inspiration  through  ancient 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


prophets  for  the  latter  times.  I  have  that  knowledge.  I  thank  God 
that  in  my  soul,  in  my  heart  and  in  my  mind  I  have  been  given  to  know 
the  truth  of  the  record  that  we  have  been  singing  about,  the  Book  ot 
Mormon,  that  it  is  true,  that  it  contains  the  fulness  of  the  everlasting 
gospel  I  thank  God  for  my  membership  in  the  Church  of  Christ,  for 
the  fellowship  that  I  have  with  my  brethren ;  and  I  bear  solemn  witness 
to  the  truth  of  the  gospel,  the  truth  of  the  things  that  have  been  taught 
us  this  day,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

1  rejoice  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  testimonies 
which  we  have  received  today.  It  was  inquired  of  old:  "If  a  man  die, 
shall  he  live  again?"  That  question  has  been  answered  well  this 
morning.  I  rejoice,  and  I  think  you  do,  in  the  information  given  us  by 
our  prophet,  seer  and  revelator  at  the  opening  of  this  conference,  that 
Cumorah's  hill  is  now  in  the  possession  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  In  standing  upon  that  sacred  ground  on  the 
one  hundredth  anniversary,  I  wished  then,  and  I  expressed  the  thought 
at  our  last  semi-annual  conference,  that  this  property  might  belong  to 
the  Church ;  because  in  connection  with  the  Hill  Cumorah  and  the  revela- 
tions to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  there  has  been  a  flood  of  information 
answering  that  question  of  old:  "If  a  man  die,  shall  he  live  again?" 
What  joy  must  have  come  into  the  heart  of  Job  when  he  was  able  to 
exclaim :  "I  know  that  my  Redeemer  liveth,  and  that  he  shall  stand  at 
the  latter  day  upon  the  earth  :  And  though  after  my  skin,  worms  destroy 
this  body,  yet  in  my  flesh  shall  I  see  God." 

A  questionnaire  was  sent  out  by  a  bereaved  man  a  score  of  years 
ago,  to  philosophers  and  scientists,  requesting  them  to  state  in  brief  the 
outstanding  reasons  which  they  had  for  the  hope  of  life  after  death, 
and  for  the  resurrection  of  the  body.  These  arguments  and  reasons 
given  were  merely  corroborative  of  the  clear  revelations  from  our 
Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ,  as  revealed  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  in  these  last  days.  Our  elders  of  course  have  strong  testimonies, 
not  only  of  the  existence  of  the  spirit  after  the  death  of  the  body,  and 
of  the  resurrection,  but  also  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ — that  Jesus  is 
divine.  They  have  all  the  evidence  that  the  non-Christian  Jew  had 
or  has  that  there  shall  be  a  Christ.  They  have  all  the  evidence  that 
the  Christian  believer  has  that  there  has  been  a  Savior  and  Redeemer. 
Many  of  those  matters  have  been  very  beautifully  presented  to  us  today. 
In  addition  to  all  that,  there  is  the  scripture  that  came  from  Cumorah's 
hill,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  one  of  the  very  purposes  of  which  was  to 
testify  to  Jew  and  Gentile  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ.  I  realize  that 
there  isn't  time  to  refer  to  some  passages  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  in 
support  of  this  doctrine,  or  at  least  to  read  them.  The  story  and 
testimony  of  the  Christ  as  given  upon  this  continent  when  he  appeared 
to  his  people  as  recorded  in  the  Eleventh  Chapter,  Third  Book  of  Nephi, 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


101 


is  a  wonderful  testimony.  I  have  had  the  feeling  as  I  read  that  chapter 
time  and  time  again,  that  no  man  without  inspiration  ever  wrote  that 
story.  We  have  been  studying  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  our  mission 
home  in  Canada  during  the  past  year,  and  after  nearly  every  lesson 
I  could  say,  and  I  have  said  many  times :  Isn't  that  beautiful !  Isn't 
that  wonderful !  No  man  without  inspiration  could  produce  those 
things.  And  that  is  my  testimony  to  you  here  today,  that  in  addition 
to  the  testimony  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  we  have  the  testimony  in  the 
revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the  76th  Section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants : 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him,  this 
is  the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him :    That  he  lives ! 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God ;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father — 

"That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were  created, 
and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto  God." 

I  thank  God  for  that  information,  for  that  revelation,  and  for 
the  many  others  along  that  line  contained  in  the  book  of  modern 
revelation,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  I  thank  the  Lord  for  the 
testimony  that  is  in  the  hearts  of  the  missionaries.  I  remarked  last 
night  to  our  Canadian  missionaries :  I  wonder  if  the  people  of  the 
Church  realize  the  very  beautiful  and  splendid  growth  these  mission- 
aries have  made  during  their  sojourn  in  the  mission  field.  I  wonder 
if  the  bishops  of  wards  and  presidents  of  stakes  will  so  order  things 
that  that  growth  which  they  have  made  will  continue,  that  they  will 
continue  to  grow  spiritually  and  intellectually  in  a  knowledge  of  the 
truth  and  continue  in  the  conviction  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  that  this  is  his  work,  established,  never  to  be  thrown  down  nor 
to  be  given  to  another  people.  And  that  is  my  testimony  to  you  today. 
I  bear  it  humbly  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Then  shall  your  light." 
Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Fred  A.  Caine,  president  of 
the  Idaho  Falls  stake  of  Zion. 

The  meeting  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  closing  meeting  of  the  conference  opened  in  the  tabernacle, 
Sunday,  April  8,  1928,  at  2  o'clock. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  announced  that  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion would  sing  the  hymn,  "The  spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning." 

After  the  spirited  singing  of  this  song  by  the  great  audience,  the 
opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Oliver  H.  Budge,  president  of 
the  Logan  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "The  earth  is  the  Lord's".  Pearl  K. 
Davis,  soloist. 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Of  religious  gatherings  this  is  one  of  the  most  thrilling  sights  in 
all  the  world,  and  the  most  inspirational.  To  address  this  vast  audience 
is  indeed  a  weighty  responsibility.  I  pray  therefore  for  your  sym- 
pathetic, prayerful  help  and  for  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord. 

Our  children  are  our  most  precious  possessions ;  and  the  proper 
training  of  youth  is  the  most  important  duty  and  obligation  of  society, 
Impressive  and  earnest  have  been  the  admonitions  and  instructions  in 
this  conference  to  the  people  properly  to  educate  their  children. 

TRUE  EDUCATION 

True  education  does  not  consist  merely  in  the  acquiring  of  a  few 
facts  of  science,  history,  literature  or  art,  but  in  the  development  of 
character.  True  education  awakens  a  desire  to  conserve  health  by 
keeping  the  body  clean  and  undefiled.  True  education  trains  in  self- 
denial  and  self-mastery.  True  education  regulates  the  temper,  subdues 
passion  and  makes  obedience  to  social  laws  and  moral  order  a  guiding 
principle  of  life.  It  develops  reason  and  inculcates  faith  in  the  living 
God  as  the  eternal  loving  Father  of  all. 

I  desire  to  call  attention  this  afternoon  to  three  groups  in  society 
on  whom  the  responsibility  rests  to  give  this  true  training  to  the  youth 
of  the  land,  and  I  should  like  to  consider  this  responsibility  in  the  light 
of  revealed  religion. 

We  heard  this  morning  from  President  Nibley  a  most  timely  and 
authoritative  declaration  regarding  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  and 
the  Priesthood  of  God  on  earth.  In  the  year  1820  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  received  that  authority,  and  ninety-eight  years  ago  last  Friday 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  officially  or- 
ganized. Thus  there  was  at  least  one  man  who  had  direct  authority  to 
represent  God  in  giving  to  mankind  principles  of  salvation  and  peace. 
We  heard  this  morning  that  before  that  day  there  was  no  such  authority 
either  by  apostolic  succession  or  by  reformation.  Granting  now,  that 
Joseph  Smith  received  that  authority,  that  he  established  the  Church 
for  the  salvation  of  the  human  family,  I  ask  you,  can  you  find  a  safer 
guide  in  the  education  of  your  child  than  through  the  revealed  word  of 
God  to  his  prophet? 

RESPONSIBILITY  OF  PARENTS 

To  parents  is  assigned  the  first  responsibility  for  the  training  of 
children.    The  Lord  through  the  prophet  says: 

"And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents  have  children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized,  that  teach  them  not  to  understand  the  doctrine  of 
repentance,  faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  and  of  baptisim  and  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands,  when  eight  years  old,  the 
sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents." 

Direct  responsibility  could  not  be  assigned  more  emphatically  and 
clearly  than  it  is  assigned  in  that  paragraph.    Parents,  there  is  the  word 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


103 


of  the  Lord  to  us  regarding  the  proper  training  of  children.  Education 
commences  at  the  mother's  knee,  and  every  word  spoken  in  the  hearing 
of  little  children  tends  towards  the  formation  of  character.  Let  parents 
always  bear  this  in  mind.  Victor  Hugo  says,  "There  are  no  bad  herbs 
and  there  are  no  bad  men — there  are  only  bad  cultivators."  If  we 
could  have  parents  who  are  good  cultivators  in  our  homes,  which  are 
the  gardens  of  the  Lord,  our  civil  officers  would  have  little  difficulty 
in  maintaining  order,  and  the  violations  of  law  would  be  less  frequent. 

There  are  parents  in  the  world — I  hope  there  are  very  few  in  the 
Church — who  say  they  will  leave  the  educating  of  their  children  in 
religious  matters  until  the  children  themselves  arrive  at  years  of  ac- 
countability. They  will  permit  their  children  to  choose  which  Church 
or  which  principles  of  religion  the  children  desire  to  accept.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  gives  no  intimation  that  any  parent  has  a  right  thus 
to  leave  the  religious  training  of  his  children  until  they  arrive  at  the 
years  of  accountability.  x 

Coleridge  once  met  a  man  who  made  that  same  statement,  and 
Coleridge  said,  "I  took  him  and  showed  him  my  garden,  and  told  him 
it  was  my  botanical  garden."  "How  so,"  said  he,  "it  is  covered  with 
weeds."  "O,"  I  replied,  "that  is  only  because  it  has  not  yet  come  to 
its  age  of  discretion  and  choice.  The  weeds  you  see  have  taken  the 
liberty  to  grow  and  I  thought  it  unfair  in  me  to  prejudice  the  soil 
toward  roses  and  strawberries." 

The  application  is  clear.  It  is  said  that  Plato  one  day,  seeing  a 
child  do  mischief,  called  immediately  and  reprimanded  the  child's 
father.  He,  too,  recognized  the  fact  that  one  of  the  great  potent  factors 
in  the  education  of  childhood  is  the  parent.  "Whatever  parent  gives  his 
children  good  instruction  and  sets  them  at  the  same  time  a  bad  example, 
may  be  considered  as  bringing  them  food  in  one  hand  and  poison  in  the 
other." 

RESPONSIBILITY  OF  PRIESTHOOD  QUORUMS 

The  second  group  upon  whom  the  responsibility  of  training 
children  rests  by  divine  revelation,  is  the  quorum  of  the  priesthood 
and  other  helps  in  government.  A  few  years  ago  when  I  was  attending 
conference  in  the  Carbon  stake,  President  Horsley  and  I  discovered  a 
little  child  that  was  lost.  President  Horsley  wiped  away  the  little  one's 
tears,  and  carried  her  to  his  home  and  placed  her  in  the  hands  of  Sister 
Horsley,  through  whose  gentleness  and  tenderness  the  child  soon  fell 
asleep.  Efforts  were  made  to  discover  the  parents,  and  at  about  five 
o'clock  in  the  afternoon,  the  distracted  mother  was  found.  Her  tear- 
stained  eyes  showed  what  anguish  she  had  passed  through  since  the 
little  one  had  wandered  from  her  side.  But  she  was  at  peace  when  she 
found  her  darling  sleeping  by  the  fireside. 

I  think  this  incident  illustrates  the  relation  of  the  quorums  to  the 
parent.  There  are  boys  and  girls  wandering  from  the  parental  hearth- 
stone. In  the  world,  outside  the  Church,  hundreds  and  thousands  and 
tens  of  thousands  of  them  are  crouching  today  behind  steel  bars. 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Even  here  in  our  own  stakes  some  are  wandering  carelessly,  aimlessly 
away  from  the  influence  of  home  standards  and  home  teachings.  It  is 
the  duty  of  quorum  members  to  extend  the  hand  of  fellowship,  the 
hand  of  guidance  to  these  young  men  and  young  women  wandering 
towards  the  downward  path.  Can  you  find  any  more  potent  influence 
in  all  the  world  than  the  quorums  as  established  in  the  Church  of  Christ? 
Time  will  not  permit  me  even  to  define  them  for  you.  You  all  know, 
and  while  I  am  speaking  you  have  in  your  minds  the  quorums  of 
Deacons,  one  thousand  or  more ;  you  have  in  mind  over  nine  hundred 
groups  of  Teachers,  and  approximately  an  equal  number  of  groups  of 
Priests,  young  men  between  the  ages  of  seventeen  and  twenty.  Seventy 
thousand  young  men  thus  grouped,  whose  duty  it  is  to  extend  the  glad 
hand  to  those  of  their  companions  who  have  not  glimpsed  the  privilege 
given  to  these  members  of  quorums. 

QUORUM  POTENCY 

T  wonder  how  many  parents  ifave  stopped  to  realize  how  potent 
these  quorums  are  in  the  lives  of  boys !  In  the  first  place,  quorum 
membership  awakens  in  the  boy  the  pride  of  fellowship  and  member- 
ship. Entrance  into  that  group  means  that  the  boy  has  attained  to 
certain  standards  of  excellence  of  character,  and  the  more  distinctive 
we  can  make  these  entrance  requirements  the  greater  will  be  the  pride 
in  the  young  boy's  heart. 

Second,  the  quorum  influence  arouses  or  satisfies  the  call  of  the 
boy  for  the  inspiration  of  the  group.  Have  you  heard  of  the  gang 
spirit  ?  Have  you  seen  the  boys  out  on  the  ditch  bank  gathering  in 
groups  in  answer  to  the  call  of  their  souls  for  companionship  ?  Then 
can  you  see  the  wisdom  of  God  in  gratifying  this  natural  inclination 
by  grouping  the  boys  under,  an  influence  that  is  educative  in  the 
highest  sense  of  the  term? 

Third,  that  group  throws  upon  the  youth  responsibility.  Tell  a 
young  boy  that  you  trust  him,  and  you  have  one  of  the  greatest  means 
of  guiding  him  uprightly  that  can  come  into  your  hands.  Young  boy, 
I  trust  you !  To  be  trusted  is  a  greater  compliment  than  to  be  loved. 
Boys  are  few  indeed  who  will  not  hold  inviolate  an  implicit  trust. 

Fourth,  grouping  in  a  quorum  offers  service.  The  Presiding 
Bishopric,  holding  a  presidency  over  these  seventy  thousand  young 
men,  have  outlined  as  they  have  hitherto  done,  a  plan  of  service  into 
which  these  young  men  are  invited,  not  just  on  Sunday,  but  on  every 
day  of  the  week. 

Finally,  into  that  group  is  introduced  faith  in  God  the  Father,  in 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  their  service  and 
acts  are  all  done  under  the  cognizance  and  realization  that  God  is  ap- 
proving of  their  acts.  It  is  sublime.  It  is  divine.  Fathers  and  mothers, 
let  us  unite  with  the  priesthood  in  extending  the  influence  of  these 
groups. 

I  have  mentioned  only  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  but  our  fathers  are 
grouped  in  like  manner,  and  we  have  one  hundred  and  thirty  thousand 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


105 


men  and  boys  working  for  the  true  education,  working  to  train  the 
youth  in  parenthood  and  faith  in  God  and  in  the  restored  gospel.  1 
tell  you,  this  grouping  in  Priesthood  Quorums  has  the  mark  of  divinity. 
It  is  divine.  And  Joseph  Smith,  a  young  man  not  twenty-five  years  of 
age  when  he  gave  that  revelation,  gave  it  by  the  inspiration  of  God 
for  the  salvation  of  the  youth  of  Zion. 

OTHER  CHURCH  EDUCATIONAL  FACTORS 

Now  I  cannot  say  anything  this  afternoon  about  the  other  educa- 
tional factors  furnished  by  the  Church  for  the  education  of  our  boys. 
Our  Church  schools — O,  what  they  mean  in  true  education !  Our 
seminaries,  correlating  as  they  do  the  gathering  of  facts  in  science, 
literature  and  art,  introducing  these  high  elements,  faith,  integrity,  obe- 
dience to  law,  respect  for  order,  purity  of  life.  Our  Religion  Classes, 
the  Sunday  Schools,  the  Mutuals,  the  Primary — I  cannot  do  more  than 
merely  mention  them,  because  I  want  to  pass  to  the  third  group  very 
seldom  mentioned  as  a  means  of  influencing  youth.  I  find  reference 
to  it  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  in  these  words : 

"We  believe  that  all  governments  necessarily  require  civil  officers  and 
magistrates  to  enforce  the  laws  of  the  same;  and  that  such  as  will  administer 
the  law  in  equity  and  justice  should  be  sought  for  and  upheld  by  the  voice  of 
the  people." 

COMMUNITY  INFLUENCE 

You  will  recognize  this  third  group  in  the  influencing  of  boys  is 
the  community — our  civil  officers  and  social  functions.  It  is  said  the 
pulpit  only  teaches  to  be  honest ;  the  market-place  trains  to  over-reaching 
and  fraud  ;  and  teaching  hasn't  a  tithe  of  the  efficiency  of  training, 
Christ  never  wrote  a  tract,  but  he  went  about  doing  good. 

The  press  dispatches  this  morning  report  the  results  of  a  survey 
made  recently  by  W.  F.  Burton  of  the  Department  of  Education  of  the 
University  of  Chicago.  Many  of  you  no  doubt  saw  it.  He  made  a 
survey  of  thousands  of  young  children  in  the  sixth  grade  in  our  public 
schools.  That  means  the  boys  and  girls  ranging  approximately  from 
ten  to  twelve  years  of  age.  He  said  the  six  things  they  all  know  most 
about,  in  their  order  of  knowledge,  are  "bootlegging,  divorce,  alimony, 
sheriffs,  juvenile  courts,  jail  and  jury."  Now  you  may  say  of  course 
they  were  in  Chicago,  but  the  same  examination  was  given  to  the 
children  of  the  schools  of  Salem,  the  capital  of  the  state  of  Oregon, 
where  63%  of  the  people  own  their  own  homes.  The  result  was 
exactly  the  same.  "Next  in  order,"  Burton  averred,  "the  children  know 
most  about  mayors,  elections,  polling  places,  ballots,  taxes,  and  in- 
surance ;  and  third,  bank  deposits,  rents,  bankrupts,  pioneers,  and 
sanitary  inspectors."  We  do  not  know  just  how  these  questions  were 
given  to  the  children.  Perhaps  they  were  so  worded  as  to  call  forth 
these  answers,  but  I  think  it  is  significant  that  the  fundamental  things 
in  education  are  not  named — not  even  mentioned. 

I  call  attention  to  this  merely  to  drive  home  the  fact  that  our  com- 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


munity  is  a  great  factor  in  the  teaching  of  our  children.  Our  officers, 
public  servants,  are  teachers  of  the  youth  and  they  carry  the  responsi- 
bility of  teachers.  It  is  our  duty,  therefore,  as  citizens  of  this  great 
republic,  to  exercise  our  right  at  the  ballot  box.  It  is  our  duty  to  see 
that  men  in  both  our  great  parties  are  chosen  who  will  teach  not  only 
by  precept,  but  by  example,  obedience  to  law ;  that  these  men  so  elected 
will  appoint  men  under  them  who  will  not  scoff  at  the  law  against 
liquor,  who  will  not  themselves  indulge  in  bootlegging,  or  who  will 
not  in  any  way  protect  those  men  or  women  who  violate  moral  laws. 

I  said  that  the  greatest  obligation  upon  society  is  the  proper  train- 
ing of  youth.  The  home,  our  quorums,  our  officers  in  the  community 
are  three  great  educational  factors,  and  all  three  subject  to  our  senti- 
ment, our  approval. 

"It  matters  not  what  I  shall  gain 
By  fleeting  gold  or  fame, 
My  hope  of  joy  depends  alone 
On  what  my  boy  shall  claim. 
My  glory  must  be  told  through  him, 
For  him  I  work  and  plan — 
Man's  greatest  duty  is  to  be 
The  father  of  a  man." 

And  each  one  of  us  may  be  the  father  of  a  man,  as  Paul  spiritually 
was  of  Timothy,  and  Peter  of  Mark,  who  as  a  young  man  undoubtedly 
was  a  witness  to  Christ's  betrayal,  and  who,  if  he  did  not  see  him 
resurrected,  wrote  in  after  years  : 

"Ye  seek  Jesus  who  was  crucified  ;  he  is  not  here,  he  is  resurrected." 

God  help  us  to  get  our  young  boys  to  feel  and  to  know  not  only  that 
Christ  has  risen,  but  that  he  has  appeared  again  to  men,  and  restored 
the  gospel  of  Christ,  the  power  of  God  through  which  youth  and  all 
mankind  may  receive  salvation  and  peace.  Amen. 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

Senior  President  of  the  Firstt  Council  of  Seventy 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  all  the  conferences  of  the  Church  that 
I  have  attended,  I  cannot  recall  a  time  when  I  have  felt  that  we  have 
had  a  greater  spiritual  feast  than  we  have  had  at  this  conference,  be- 
cause of  the  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  upon  his  servants. 
The  spirit  of  testimony  has  been  very  strong,  and  it  appears  to  me  that 
it  has  been  colored  by  the  spirit  of  testimony  as  exemplified  in  the 
declaration  of  the  Christ  upon  one  occasion — that  occasion  when  he 
taught  the  mysteries  of  the  new  birth  to  Nicodemus.  After  his  expla- 
nation about  the  second  birth,  and  having  expressed  some  surprise  that 
Nicodemus,  a  teacher  in  Israel,  was  not  acquainted  with  these  truths, 
the  Savior  said : 

"We  speak  that  we  do  know,  and  testify  that  we  have  seen." 

And  then  he  appears  to  have  been  under  the  necessity  of  saying 
this  rather  sorrowful  thing: 

"And  ye  receive  not  our  witness." 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


107 


I  trust  that  that  reflection  will  find  no  place  in  our  experience  in 
this  conference. 

At  another  time  the  Savior  struck  a  more  hopeful  note  connected 
with  the  fact  that  he  himself  was  a  witness  to  the  truth.  That  occurred 
in  his  conversation  with  Pontius  Pilate  just  before  he  was  condemned 
to  crucifixion  by  that  officer.  Pilate  was  seeking  justification  for 
letting  the  Savior  go,  and  when  that  seemed  to  be  hopeless,  he  sought 
for  justification  for  signing  the  death  warrant  enacted  by  the  Jewish 
Sanhedrin  against  the  Christ.  Among  the  charges  made  against  Jesus 
was  that  he  claimed  to  be  a  king ;  and  of  course  I  suppose  it  occurred 
to  Pilate  that  if  he  could  attach  that  claim  directly  to  the  Christ  he 
would  feel  some  justification  in  condemning  him  to  death,  as  such  a 
claim  would  be  a  challenge  to  the  sovereignty  of  Rome.  Hence  he 
brought  up  that  question  and  said  unto  Jesus: 

"Art  thou  a  king?" 

The  Savior  replied :    "My  kingdom  is  not  of  this  world." 
"O,  then,  thou  art  a  king?"  exclaimed  Pilate. 
"Thou  sayest  I  am  a  king." 

As  if  he  saw  the  hopelessness  of  continuing  the  discussion,  "Thou 
sayest  I  am  a  king,"  so  we  will  let  it  go  at  that.  Then  he  turned  to  a 
more  serious  matter  and  said: 

"To  this  end  was  I  born,  for  this  purpose  came  I  into  the  world, 
to  testify  of  the  truth." 

Something  more  than  a  kingship ;  something  of  higher  importance 
than  being  a  king:  I  am  a  witness  of  the  truth.  "And  they  who  are 
of  the  truth,  hear  my  voice."    (St.  John  18:33-37.) 

•  From  which  we  gather  that  there  is  a  force  and  power  in  truth 
itself  apart  from  any  bolstering  up  by  arguments  or  reasons  a  direct 
power  in  truth  itself  that  carries  conviction  of  the  effect  of  it  to 
those  who  are  "of  the  truth."  I  think  that  is  the  spirit  that  has  char- 
acterized so  splendidly  this  conference — The  Spirit  of  Truth. 

Among  the  many  important  subjects  that  have  been  brought  to  our 
attention  I  think  there  is  no  item  of  more  importance  than  the  subject 
that  was  discussed  by  President  Ivins  in  tracing  the  records  of  the 
Nephites  from  the  centers  of  their  civilization  northward,  and  the  long 
pilgrimage  of  the  people  as  they  moved  northward  until  they  came  to 
the  land  of  Ripliancum,  the  land  of  many  waters,  and  the  Hill  Cumorah. 
I  was  deeply  interested  in  what  he  said,  and  I  believe  that  his  remarks 
make  a  very  important  contribution,  not  only  to  this  conference,  but 
to  the  literature  of  the  Church.  It  will  at  least  be  preserved  in  the 
minutes  of  this  conference,  and  will  be  of  permanent  record. 

As  he  closed  his  remarks  the  thought  that  flashed  through  my  mind 
was  this :  O,  what  the  world  would  have  lost,  if  the  Book  of  Mormon 
had  not  been  brought  forth ! 

I  wish  I  had  the  time  to  consider  the  things  that  would  have  been 
lost  to  the  world  but  for  the  bringing  forth  of  the  Nephite  scriptures, 
the  American  volume  of  scriptures.  I  remember  in  my  early  days 
coming  in  contact  with  opponents  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  who  charged, 
for  instance,  that  it  had  no  aphorisms  of  any  importance,  and  that  it 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


was  in  this  respect  in  strong  contrast  with  the  Jewish  scriptures.  1 
want  to  call,  your  attention,  however,  to  a  few  aphorisms  that  are  of 
great  worth,  and  that  enrich  the  sacred  literature  of  the  world. 

For  instance,  there  is  that  sharp-cut  sentence: 

"Wickedness  never  was  happiness." 

I  think  it  would  be  difficult  to  find  an  epigram  more  important 
than  that,  and  a  truth  that  the  world  ought  to  know. 

Again :  "All  things  have  been  done  in  the  wisdom  of  him  who 
knoweth  all  things." 

A  beautiful  utterance;  and  a  declaration  of  confidence  in  the  perfect 
knowledge  of  God ;  and  builded  upon  that  perfect  knowledge — and  it 
can  only  be  builded  upon  perfect  knowledge — perfect  wisdom.  And 
that  beautiful  declaration  is  followed  by  this  announcement  of  the 
great  truth,  giving  us  clear  vision  of  the  purpose  of  God  with  reference 
to  the  earth-life  of  man,  the  like  of  which  is  not  found  elsewhere, 
neither  in  Jewish  nor  Christian  scriptures ;  nor  in  the  philosophies 
of  men : 

"Adam  fell  that  men  might  be;  and  men  are  that  they  might  have 

That  is  the  thing  that  God  is  working  out,  and  what  a  lesson  of 
cheer  and  good  will  and  of  hope  it  is! 
Here  is  another: 

"The  Lord  giveth  no  commandments  unto  the  children  of  men, 
save  he  prepares  a  way  for  them  that  they  may  accomplish  the  thing 
which  he  commandeth  them." 

You  who  are  starting  to  bring  to  pass  the  high  purposes  of  God, 
with  reference  to  this  creation  of  his,  what  comfort  that  assurance 
brings !  "God  will  require  nothing  at  the  hands  of  the  children  of 
men  save  he  prepares  the  way  for  them  to  accomplish  that  thing." 

Again,  Moroni,  near  the  close  of  his  record,  seems  to  tremble  for 
the  success  of  his  work,  and  as  he  reviewed  it  and  became  conscious 
of  the  weaknesses  in  it,  he  was  very  deeply  sorrowful  and  he  wrote 
in  substance — and  all  these  quotations  are  but  in  substance: 

"Lord,  the  Gentiles  will  mock  at  our  weakness  in  writing." 

And  the  answer  of  the  Lord  was: 

"Fools  mock,  but  they  shall  mourn ;  and  my  grace  is  sufficient  for 
all  who  humble  themselves  before  me,  saith  the  Lord." 

I  remember  having  a  very  rich  bit  of  experience  with  that  passage 
in  the  younger  days  of  my  ministry  when  I  was  on  my  first  mission. 
It  fell  to  my  lot  to  engage  in  a  three-day  debate  with  a  seasoned  man 
in  that  line  of  work.  I  was  but  twenty-three  and  had  had  no  expe- 
rience. He  was  fifty-four  and  had  the  reputation  of  having  driven  all 
his  opponents  from  the  platform.  He  mocked  considerably  at  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  and  brought  up  this  very  question  of  its  lack  of 
incisiveness  and  clear-cut  aphorisms,  and  challenged  me  to  produce 
anything  that  could  be  comparable  with  the  sharp,  clear-cut  aphorisms 
of  the  Bible  scriptures. 

I  told  him  I  could  think  just  at  the  moment  of  but  one,  and  that 
was,  "Fools  mock,  but  they  shall  mourn." 


ELDER  BR1GHAM  H.  ROBERTS  109 

I  am  not  very  much  acquainted  with  his  history  after  that  debate, 
but  after  three  days'  discussion  he  utterly  refused  to  go  on  with  the 
debate,  when  it  was  really  but  half  through,  and  notwithstanding  he 
had  previously  driven  every  opponent  from  the  platform.  I  had  his 
promise  also  that  I  should  have  the  opportunity  of  examining  his  doc- 
trine after  closing  our  debate  on  the  Book  of  Mormon,  but  he  refused 
to  go  on  with  it,  and  left  the  platform  with  an  unfinished  job  on  his 
hands.  By  the  way,  let  me  say,  not  by  way  of  boasting,  but  because 
of  the  blessing  of  the  Lord  on  our  labors,  immediately  following  the 
discussion,  we  began  baptizing,  and  within  two  months  had  raised  up 
a  branch  in  the  neighborhood  of  more  than  sixty  members.  The 
Lord  so  blessed  us  on  that  occasion. 

After  calling  this  gentleman's  attention  to  that  passage,  "Fools 
mock,  but  they  shall  mourn,"  he  did  not  ask  for  any  more  aphorisms. 

"Fools  mock,  but  they  shall  mourn !"  And  then  this  richer  state- 
ment follows  it: 

"I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  men  weakness  that  they  may  be  humble; 
and  my  grace  is  sufficient  for  all  men  that  humble  themselves  before 
me." 

Have  you  in  your  moments  of  trial  or  deep  sorrow  felt  the  hand 
of  a  friend  steal  quietly  into  your  hand,  and  by  pressure  express 
sympathy  and  brotherhood  to  you?  I  have  fortunately  had  a  few 
friends  with  whom  I  have  had  such  experience  as  that,  both  men  and 
women,  a  recollection  that  is  among  the  precious  treasures  of  my 
experience.  But  this  passage,  "I  give  unto  men  weakness  that  they 
may  be  humble ;  and  my  grace  is  sufficient  for  all  those  who  humble 
themselves  before  me," — in  this,  it  seems  to  me,  that  I  feel  the  hand  of 
God  slipping  gently  into  my  hand,  and  giving  me  the  pressure  of  assur- 
ance that  there  will  be  mercy,  that  there  will  be  helpfulness,  that  there 
will  be  encouragement  from  God.  He  will  remember  that  we  are  but  men 
and  women  in  the  making;  and  while  not  yet  perfect,  yet  perhaps 
perfectable — which  is  the  important  thing.  In  that  utterance  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  I  feel  the  richness  of  the  grace  of  God,  and  assurances 
of  success  in  hungering  and  thirsting  after  righteousness,  for  it  shall 
be  given  unto  us. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  is  important  because  of  its  correction  of 
some  errors  that  have  crept  into  the  philosophies  and  religions  of  men. 
You  see  perhaps  the  most  perfect  expression  of  God's  law  unto  men 
in  the  sermon  on  the  mount.  That  sermon  as  it  stands  in  Matthew  is 
vulnerable,  at  least  at  one  point ;  and  that  is  where  the  Savior  admonishes 
men  without  any  limitation,  apparently,  as  expressed  by  Matthew,  to 
take  no  thought  for  tomorrow,  what  ye  shall  eat,  or  what  ye  shall  drink, 
or  wherewithal  ye  shall  be  clothed  ;  and  calls  attention  to  the  lilies  of  the 
field,  how  they  grow,  they  toil  not,  neither  do  they  spin,  and  yet  Solomon 
in  all  his  glory  is  not  arrayed  as  one  of  these.  He  refers  to  the  very  birds 
of  the  air,  that  they  are  under  the  care  of  the  Father,  and  will  have  his 
attention,  and  not  one  falleth  to  the  ground  without  his  notice.  "Are  ye 
not  of  more  worth  than  many  sparrows  ?" 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Now  those  who  enter  into  arguments  against  the  doctrines  of 
Christianity,  and  who  try  to  condemn  even  this  sermon  on  the  mount, 
say  that  this  doctrine  of  taking  no  thought  of  tomorrow  is  utterly  im- 
practicable in  life.  That  if  men  generally  tried  to  live  as  the  birds  do,  and 
to  receive  their  clothing  as  the  flowers  are  clothed  with  beauty,  the 
result  would  be  not  civilization  but  savage  life  as  we  know  it  among 
the  undeveloped  races  of  the  children  of  men. 

In  the  Book  of  Mormon  account  of  Christ  delivering  that  sermon 
on  this  continent  among  his  people,  when  coming  to  that  part  of  his 
sermon  which  he  repeated  here  in  this  land,  he  turned  directly  to  the 
Twelve  Disciples  unto  whom  he  had  given  authority  to  preach  the 
gospel  and  administer  the  Sacraments  thereof,  and  it  was  to  them,  and 
to  them  alone,  that  he  addressed  that  part  of  his  sermon.  They  were 
to  take  no  thought  of  the  things  of  tomorrow,  nor  the  things  of  the 
world;  for  the  Father  knew  beforehand  what  their  needs  were.  And 
then  he  admonishes  them  to  take  encouragement  from  his  reference 
to  the  birds  of  the  air  and  the  flowers  of  the  field,  how  they  were  fed 
and  clothed ;  and  gives  them  encouragement  that  the  Father  would  so 
care  for  them.  From  the  fact  that  this  part  of  the  sermon  was  limited 
to  the  Twelve  Special  Disciples  on  this  western  hemisphere,  it  is  a 
reasonable  conclusion  that  the  same  limitation  was  fixed  in  his  sermon 
on  the  mount  when  he  delivered  it  in  Palestine,  as  it  was  recorded  by 
Matthew. 

Civilized  man  must  of  necessity  take  thought  of  tomorrow,  and 
plan  for  it,  and  practice  self-denial,  that  in  the  future  greater  things 
may  be  accomplished,  through  the  thinking  and  the  sacrificing  of  today. 
These  things  are  the  very  keynote  of  building  up  civilization.  But  out 
of  a  community  you  could  call  twelve  ministers,  dedicated  to  a  certain 
purpose  in  life,  that  requires  all  of  their  energies  and  all  of  their 
thought,  and  enjoin  upon  them  self-consecration  to  a  given  special 
task,  without  injury  to  the  development  of  civilization ;  they  could  take 
no  thought  of  tomorrow,  and  trust  in  the  providences  of  God  for  their 
maintenance,  without  affecting  industrial,  or  economic  conditions. 

There  is  no  apparent  effort  to  make  a  correction  of  Matthew's 
account  of  the  Sermon  as  it  appears  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  Tt 
relates  simply  the  incident,  and  from  it  you  see  how  this  point  in  the 
sermon  on  the  mount  may  be  clarified. 

So  with  several  of  the  beatitudes  in  that  sermon.  Changes  here 
and  there  made  which  give  them  point,  and  make  them  more  definite 
and  beautiful.    For  example,  in  this  one,  Matthew  says : 

"Blessed  are  the  poor  in  spirit :  for  theirs  is  the  kingdom  of 
heaven." 

The  Book  of  Mormon  version  of  that  beatitude  is : 
"Yea,  blessed  are  the  poor  in  spirit,  who  come  unto  me :  for  theirs 
is  the  kingdom  of  heaven." 

To  be  poor  in  spirit  is  no  doubt  a  very  excellent  quality,  but  it 
requires  more  than  that  to  enter  the  kingdom  of  heaven:  They  must 
come  unto  God  in  order  to  enter  the  kingdom  of  God.  And  so  through- 
out.   I  can  only  give  you  just  a  brief  example  of  these  things. 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


111 


Since  this  is  Easter  day,  let  me  call  your  attention  to  one  other 
thing  in  the  testimony  of  the  scriptures  of  the  western  continents — ■ 
the  Book  of  Mormon — in  relation  to  the  resurrection  of  Christ.  What 
a  wonderful  testimony  that  book  contains  for  the  thing  that  is  celebrated 
this  day  throughout  Christendom,  namely,  the  resurrection  from  the 
dead  of  our  Lord  the  Christ !  In  all  the  accounts  that  are  given  of  the 
reality  of  that  resurrection — and  it  has  been  beautifully  expressed  to 
our  thought  during  this  conference,  the  absolute  reality  of  it — how 
well  the  testimonies  of  the  Christian  scriptures  and  the  prophetic  parts 
of  the  old  Bible,  too,  are  sustained  by  that  wonderful  appearing  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  to  the  inhabitants  of  this  western  world !  After 
the  awful  destruction  by  storm  and  tempest  and  earthquake,  which 
very  much  changed  the  character  of  the  face  of  the  land,  even  moun- 
tains arising  from  plains,  and  mountains  shaken  to  their  foundations, 
covering  wicked  cities  upon  whom  God  had  decreed  destruction ;  after 
the  awful  three  days  darkness  which  seems  to  have  been  even  more 
terrible  than  the  storms  and  earthquakes,  and  which  has  become  en- 
shrined in  the  legends  of  the  native  people  of  this  American 
continent;  after  that  dreadful  experience  of  storm  and  tempest 
and  destruction — then  a  voice  was  universally  heard  in  the  land 
proclaiming  the  mercy  and  willingness  of  the  Savior  to  forgive; 
proclaiming  the  truth  that  he  was  the  Creator  of  the  heavens  and  the 
earth,  and  had  made  his  sacrifices  for  the  redemption  of  men.  Follow- 
ing that,  some  time  after  the  close  of  the  storms,  tempests,  whirlwinds 
and  earthquakes,  came  to  pass  the  wonderful  appearing  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  when  a  few  people  in  the  Land  Bountiful  stood  by  a 
temple  that  happened  to  have  escaped  destruction — then,  as  they  won- 
dered upon  the  changes  that  had  been  wrought  in  the  lands  about  them, 
and  were  recovering  somewhat  from  their  own  errors,  they  heard  a  voice, 
but  knew  not  whence  it  came  nor  what  was  said.  They  looked  about 
at  each  other  wondering  whence  it  came.  The  second  time  they  heard 
it,  but  there  was  no  definite  communication  in  the  sound.  The  third 
time  they  heard  it  they  recognized  that  something  was  said,  and  that 
something  was  this,  and  it  thrilled  them: 

"Behold  my  Beloved  Son  in  whom  I  am  well  pleased,  in  whom  I 
have  glorified  my  name — hear  ye  him." 

Looking  in  the  direction  whence  that  voice  came  they  saw  a  man, 
all  glorious,  descending  in  white  raiment,  and  down  he  came  until  he 
stood  upon  the  earth  in  their  presence.  Stretching  forth  his  arms — 
it  seems  to  me  it  must  have  been  with  wonderful  majesty — he  said  unto 
them : 

"Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  whom  the  prophets  testified  shall 
come  into  the  world. 

"And  behold,  I  am  the  light  and  the  life  of  the  world :  and  I  have 
drunk  out  of  that  bitter  cup  which  the  Father  hath  given  me,  and  have 
glorified  the  Father  in  taking  upon  me  the  sins  of  the  world,  in  the 
which  I  have  suffered  the  will  of  the  Father  in  all  things  from  the 
beginning." 

What  a  message  of  the  Deity  to  the  world ;  a  message  and  testimony 


112 


GENERA L  CONFERENCE 


of  the  Christ ;  of  the  fact  that  he  had  suffered  for  the  sins  of  the  world, 
of  the  fact  that  he  had  risen  from  the  dead,  and  now  stood  before  them 
clothed  with  all  authority  in  heaven  and  in  earth,  come  to  establish  faith 
in  the  hearts  of  these  people  who  had  been  tried  by  their  severe  ex- 
periences, and  had  survived  because  they  were  the  worthiest  to  survive ! 
To  them  also  he  granted  the  privilege  of  St.'  Thomas,  to  behold  his 
wounds  in  hands  and  feet  and  side.  And  when  they  had  thus  confirmed 
their  faith,  on  their  faces  they  fell  and  shouted  aloud:  "Hosanna. 
Hosanna  to  the  Most  High  God!"  And  so  they  worshipped  the  risen 
Lord. 

Now,  tell  me  in  what  church  or  cathedral  in  the  world,  in  what 
sacred  grove,  in  what  place  among  the  habitations  of  men,  will  be  found 
a  more  glorious  Easter  vision  of  the  Christ  than  this?  And  the  world 
would  have  lost  this'  if  it  had  not  been  for  the  Book  of  Mormon  coming 
forth,  and  there  is  a  hundred  more  such  glorious  things  that  have 
come  to  the  world  in  that  book  to  enlighten  the  children  of  men,  all  of 
which  would  have  been  lost  had  not  this  American  volume  of  scripture 
been  brought  forth. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  had  a  most  glorious  conference. 
Will  you  not  permit  me  to  close  my  remarks  according  to  the  desire 
that  is  in  my  heart,  and  what  I  would  like  to  say  to  express  my  own 
feelings  of  gratitude  for  the  things  that  have  been  reviewed  before  us 
in  this  conference?  Do  not  think  me  presumptuous,  but  if  I  might 
follow  the  promptings  of  my  own  heart  on  this  occasion,  I  should  do 
so  in  this  manner : 

O  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  thv  dear  Son  Jesus 
Christ,  we  worship  thee !  We  worship  thee  as  the  Creator  of  heaven 
and  of  earth,  and  of  the  seas,  and  of  the  fountains  of  waters.  We 
worship  thee  not  only  as  Creator,  but  also  as  the  World-sustaining 
Power  of  the  universe.  We  revere  and  honor  thee  as  the  Intelligence- 
inspiring  Power  in  the  world,  also  as  the  Vital  Force  of  the  world, 
and  the  Sustaining  Power  of  Life.  We  honor  Thee  also  as  the  Love- 
manifesting  Power,  as  expressed  through  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord.  To 
us  he  is  God  manifested  in  the  flesh — God  incarnate. 

We  thank  thee  for  that  glorious  line  of  patriarchs  from  Adam  to 
Noah,  and  from  Noah  to  Melchizedek,  to  Abraham  and  Moses  and  all 
the  prophets  in  Israel.  We  thank  thee  for  the  service  and  labors  of  that 
majestic  man  who  stood  at  the  head  of  the  Aaronic  priesthood  in  his 
day  and  time,  John  called  the  Baptist,  who  was  the  forerunner  of 
Christ,  in  the  meridian  dispensation.  We  thank  thee  from  full  hearts 
for  the  Christ  himself,  and  for  the  sacrifice  that  he  made  for  us.  Also 
we  thank  thee,  our  Father,  for  the  Apostles  of  that  dispensation,  and 
for  the  honor  and  integrity  in  which  they  discharged  their  high  duties 
in  bearing  special  witnesses  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

We  thank  thee  for  the  great  prophet  of  the  New  Dispensation,  the 
servant  in  thy  house,  Joseph  Smith,  the  Seer  of  the  last  days.  And 
also,  Father,  we  thank  thee  for  that  flood  of  knowledge  that  has  come 
into  the  world,  the  testimonies  from  the  Nephite  scriptures,  as  well 
as  those  which  have  come  from  the  Jewish  scriptures.    And,  O  Lord, 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


113 


far  and  above  all,  the  most  excellent  of  all,  and  to  whom  we  are  directly 
indebted  for  hope  of  eternal  life  and  redemption  from  sin  and  union 
with  Thee  through  thy  Spirit  and  our  baptism  into  it,  that  Spirit  by 
which  we  "may  know  the  truth  of  all  things,"  even  the  Holy  Ghost.  We 
thank  Thee  for  this. 

And  now,  O  Lord  Jesus,  if  thou  couldst  but  come  into  the  con- 
sciousness of  our  souls  this  clay,  as  thou  didst  come  into  the  vision  of 
the  ancient  Nephites  in  the  Land  of  Bountiful,  we  would  join  their 
great  song  of  praise  and  worship,  saying — "Hosanna !  Hosanna ! 
Blessed  be  the  name  of  the  Most  High  God!"  And  we,  like  them, 
would  fall  down  at  the  feet  of  Jesus  and  worship  him  this  Easter  day ! 
Amen. 

A  duet,  "The  morning  land,"  was  sung  by  Mrs.  Dolores  Fernstrom 
and  Miss  Jessie  Evans. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

"Zion's  welfare  is  my  portion, 
And  I  feel  my  bosom  swell 
With  a  warm,  divine  emotion, 
When  she  prospers,  all  is  well." 

My  soul  has  rejoiced  in  the  spirit  of  this  conference  and  in  the 
hope  that  we  have  in  the  completion  of  the  Lord's  work  according  to 
his  plan  and  purpose.  I  am  in  full  sympathy  and  accord  with  all  that 
has  been  said  concerning  the  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder  which  the 
Lord  has  established.  My  great  anxiety  is  that  it  shall  continue  to  be 
a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder.  I  feel  constrained  to  make  an  appeal 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  particularly  my  brethren  who  bear  rule  in 
stakes,  wards  and  quorums,  to  see  to  it  that  we  do  preserve  all  our 
sacred  privileges  by  complying  with  those  requirements  which  the  Lord 
has  made  for  the  future  welfare  of  Zion. 

A  BOOK  OF  MORMON  MESSAGE 

Reference  has  been  made  frequently  to  the  Book  of  Mormon,  dur- 
ing this  conference,  and  to  the  messages  it  contains.  I  should  like  to 
read  from  it,  to  call  to  your  attention  a  message  that  comes  to  us  from 
Nephi  (II  Nephi,  Chapter  28).  He  saw  this  day  as  clearly  as  his  own, 
and  he  gives  us  this  warning: 

"And  now,  behold,  my  (brethren,  1  have  spoken  unto  you,  according  as  the 
Spirit  hath  constrained  me ;  wherefore,  I  know  that  they  must  surely  come  to 
pass. 

"The  things  which  shall  be  written  out  of  the  book  shall  be  pf  great  worth, 
*    *    *    and  especially  unto  our  seed,  which  is  a  remnant  of  the  house  of  Israel. 

"For  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  that  day,  [in  the  day  when  this  book  should 
come  forth],  that  the  churches  which  are  built  up,  and  not  unto  the  Lord,  when 
the  one  shall  say  unto  the  other,  Behold  I,  I  am  the  Lord's ;  and  the  others  shall 
say :  I,  I  am  the  Lord's ;  and  thus  shall  every  one  say  that  hath  built  up 
churches,  and  not  unto  the  Lord — 

"And  they  shall  contend  one  with  another ;  and  their  priests  shall  contend 
one  with  another,  and  they  shall  teach  with  their  learning,  and  deny  the  Holy 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Ghost,  which  giveth  utterance. 

"And  they  deny  the  power  of  God,  the  Holy  One  of  Israel ;  and  they  say 
unto  the  people :  Hearken  unto  us,  and  hear  ye  our  precept ;  for  behold  there  is 
no  God  today,  for  the  Lord  and  the  Redeemer  hath  done  his  work,  and  he  hath 
given  his  power  unto  men; 

"Behold,  hearken  ye  unto  my  precept;  if  they  shall  say  there  is  a  miracle 
wrought  by  the  hand  of  the  Lord,  believe  it  not;  for  this  day  he  is  not  a  God 
of  miracles ;  he  hath  done  his  work. 

"Yea,  and  there  shall  be  marry  which  shall  say :  Eat,  drink,  and  be  merry, 
for  tomorrow  we  die ;  and  it  shall  be  well  with  us. 

"And  there  shall  also  be  many  which  shall  say:  Eat,  drink,  and  be  merry; 
nevertheless,  fear  God — he  will  justify  in  committing  a  little  sin ;  yea,  lie  a  little, 
take  the  advantage  of  one  because  of  his  words,  dig  a  pit  for  thy  neighbor ;  there 
is  no  harm  in  this ;  and  do  all  these  things,  for  tomorrow  we  die ;  and  if  it  so  be 
that  we  are  guilty,  God  will  beat  us  with  a  few  stripes,  and  at  last  we  shall  be 
saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

"Yea,  and  there  shall  be  many  which  shall  teach  after  this  manner,  false,  and 
vain,  and  foolish  doctrines,  and  shall  be  puffed  up  in  their  hearts,  and  shall  seek 
deep  to  hide  their  counsels  from  the  Lord ;  and  their  works  shall  be  in  the  dark. 

"And  the  blood  of  the  saints  shall  cry  from  the  ground  against  them. 

"Yea,  they  have  all  gone  out  of  the  way ;  they  have  become  corrupted. 

"Because  of  pride,  and  because  of  false  teachers,  and  false  doctrine,  their 
churches  have  become  corrupted,  and  their  churches  are  lifted  up ;  because  of  pride 
they  are  puffed  up. 

"They  rob  the  poor  because  of  their  fine  sanctuaries ;  they  rob  the  poor 
because  of  their  fine  clothing;  and  they  persecute  the  meek  and  the  poor  in  heart, 
because  in  their  pride  they  are  puffed  up. 

"They  wear  stiff  necks  and  high  heads ;  yea,  and  because  of  pride,  and 
wickedness,  and  abominations,  and  whoredoms,  they  have  all  gone  astray  save 
it  be  a  few,  who  are  the  humble  followers  of  Christ;  nevertheless,  they  are  led, 
that  in  many  instances  they  do  err,  because  they  are  taught  by  the  precepts  of 
men." 

DANGERS  THAT  THREATEN  THE  WORLD 

I  shall  not  read  the  remainder  of  it;  I  commend  it  all  to  you. 
Here  is  a  message  to  the  Church,  a  message  to  the  world.  Nephi  saw 
most  clearly  these  things  which  threaten  the  world,  and  the  dangers 
that  threaten  the  Church.  I  see  no  dark  clouds  gathering  against  the 
Church,  but  I  do  see  most  clearly  that  which  Nephi  declared,  that  in 
this  day  Satan  would  stir  up  the  hearts  of  men,  and  he  would  rage  in 
their  hearts  against  the  truth,  and  he  would  seek  to  gain  power  and 
control  over  the  kingdoms  of  this  world. 

THE  LORD'S  PROMISE  TO  THE  CHURCH 

I  recognize,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Church  has  attained 
a  right  to  exist.  I  fear  neither  kings  nor  potentates  so  far  as  the  future 
destiny  of  this  work  is  concerned.  The  only  fear  and  anxiety  that  I 
have  in  my  heart  is  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  will  not  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  God. 

I  read  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  words  of  precious  promise 
to  this  Church  on  conditions  found  in  the  one  hundred  and  third 
section,  wherein  the  Lord,  even  in  the  midst  of  the  trial  and  suffering 
of  the  Church  following  the  days  of  their  sorrow  in  Missouri,  said : 

"But  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  I  have  decreed  a  decree  which  my  people 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


115 


shall  realize,  inasmuch  as  they  hearken  from  this  very  hour  unto  the  counsel 
which  I,  the  Lord  their  God,  shall  give  unto  them. 

"Behold  they  shall,  for  I  have  decreed  it,  begin  to  prevail  against  mine 
enemies  from  this  very  hour." 

And  here  are  the  conditions : 

"And  by  hearkening  to  observe  all  the  words  which  I,  the  Lord  their  God. 
shall  speak  unto  them,  they  shall  never  cease  to  prevail  until  the  kingdoms  of 
the  world  are  subdued  under  my  feet,  and  the  earth  is  given  unto  the  saints,  to 
possess  it  forever  and  ever. 

"But  inasmuch  as  they  keep  not  my  commandments,  and  hearken  not  to 
observe  all  my  words,  the  kingdoms  of  the  world  shall  prevail  against  them, 

"For  they  were  set  to  be  a  light  unto  the  world,  and  to  be  the  saviors  of  men." 

This  precious  promise  is  ours,  on  condition  that  we  continue  as 
faithful  as  our  fathers  and  mothers  were.  We  live  in  the  time  when 
men  begin  to  say,  It  is  all  right  to  sin  a  little,  to  lie  a  little,  to!  begin  to 
pay  little  heed  and  attention  to  those  strict  requirements  of  the  Lord, 
to  begin  to  break  the  Word  of  Wisdom  a  little,  to  begin  to  neglect  the 
payment  of  our  tithes  and  offerings,  to  begin  to  treat  the  moral  law 
lightly,  and  to  look  upon  it  as  a  thing  not  binding  upon  us.  That  is  the 
spirit  that  is  in  the  world,  and  the  Lord  said  that  influence  would 
actually  affect  the  Church  itself — the  few  who  were  the  only  ones  in 
the  world  acceptable,  and  yet,  in  some  instances,  they  were  stumbling 
because  of  these  false  doctrines  and  precepts  of  men. 

CAN  OUR  CIVILIZATION  ENDURE 

I  heard  recently,  as  some  of  you  did,  an  eminent  philosopher 
deliver  an  address,  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  on  the  question,  Can  civiliza- 
tion endure?  He  recited  the  rise  and  the  fall  of  empires,  and  said 
that  all  the  glory  of  Babylon  had  gone  the  way  of  the  world,  as  was 
the  case  with  other  civilizations  that  had  arisen.  And  yet,  out  of  it 
all,  there  has  come  unto  our  civilization  all  the  blessings  and  benefits 
of  former  civilizations.  But  he  also  called  attention  to  the  fact,  that 
if  the  glorious  civilizations  of  the  past  had  not  been  destroyed  and 
could  have  gone  on  building,  what  might  be  our  status  today!  He 
also  said,  there  is,  of  course,  a  possibility  that,  glorious  and  wonderful 
as  this  civilization  is,  it,  too,  may  perish  and  go  the  way  of  the  world. 
He  asked  the  question,  Will  the  day  ever  come  in  the  lives  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men  when  a  civilization  shall  be  established  that  will  stand  for- 
ever and  will  not  go  into  decay  as  those  great  civilizations  of  the  past 
have  done  ?  He  hoped  that  day  would  come,  he  believed  it  would.  While 
listening  to  his  remarks,  I  saw,  more  clearly  than  ever,  the  hand  of 
God  in  laying  a  foundation  in  fulfilment  of  that  promise  made  through 
Daniel,  in  the  interpretation  of  the  dream  given  to  Nebuchadnezzar, 
that  that  day  would  come.  He  saw  all  the  kingdoms  that  have  risen 
and  have  fallen,  and  foretold  their  future  as  accurately  as  the  historian 
has  recorded  it  since  the  events  have  happened;  and,  with  as  much 
accuracy,  he  foretold  the  day  to  come  when,  after  all  this  period,  the 
God  of  heaven  would  set  his  hand  to  establish  a  new  order  of  things 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


in  the  earth,  to  build  up  a  kingdom  that  would  stand  forever,  and  that 
never  would  fall. 

A  KINGDOM  THAT  WILL  NEVER  FALL 

Our  attention  has  been  called,  during  this  conference,  to  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  Lord's  work  in  the  founding  of  these  American  insti- 
tutions, and  that  God  inspired  the  men  who  wrote  the  Constitution. 
We  believe  that  his  hand  has  been  over  it.  I  believe  myself  that  it  is 
part  of  God's  great  work  in  the  building  up  and  establishment  of  a 
kingdom  for  himself  when  he  will  come,  for  come  he  will,  to  reign  as 
King  of  kings.  All  the  kingdoms  of  the  world  shall  go  on,  attempting 
to  solve  their  problems  and  utterly  failing,  until,  in  desperation,  after 
the  days  of  their  sorrow,  they  will  turn  to  him  and  elect  him  to  be 
their  King.  He  will  reign  as  Lord  of  lords  in  his  Church — this  Church, 
builded  and  established  by  him,  and  which  shall  go  forward  and  never 
fail.  Wonderful,  is  it  not,  to  think  that  we  are  favored  above  all  other 
men  in  the  world,  privileged  to  live  in  an  age  when  we  are  contributing 
towards  the  establishment  of  that  order  of  things  that  will  never  perish. 

This  government,  its  principles  and  doctrines,  will  never  perish 
from  the  earth.  Neither  will  this  Church  nor  the  principles  and  the 
doctrines  that  it  announces.  They  are  not  competitors,  they  are  hand- 
maidens preparing  the  way  for  his  coming.  It  is  glorious  to  know 
that  he  has  risen,  and  more  glorious  to  know  that  he  will  come  again 
and  will  live  and  rule  and  reign  with  his  saints  for  a  thousand  years, 
and  peace  shall  be  here.  This  is  the  mission  and  the  destiny  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ'  of  Latter-day  Saints.  What  then  is  our  duty  ? 
My  brethren,  it  is  to  go  to  our  stakes  and  wards  and  rally  our  forces 
as  watchmen  upon  the  towers  of  Zion,  to  see  the  dangers  that  threaten, 
and  while  they  are  not  disastrous  now,  being  forewarned,  forearm  our- 
selves, and  induce  our  brethren  and  sisters  not  to  be  weary  in  well- 
doing, but  to  subscribe  their  lives  to  these  simple  gospel  principles,  for 
in  abiding  by  them  is  all  this  future  glory  assured  to  us.  By  keeping 
the  commandments  of  God,  we  shall  never  cease  to  prevail  until  the 
kingdoms  of  the  world  shall  become  the  kingdoms  of  our  God  and  his 
Christ. 

SATAN  SHALL  BE  DEFEATED 

My  only  anxiety  is  that,  when  the  clay  comes,  we  shall  be  found 
with  oil  in  our  lamps.  I  bear  witness  to  you  that  the  devil  is  raging. 
He  never  has  had  such  an  experience  in  all  his  existence,  in  seeking  to 
obtain  power  and  authority  over  the  things  of  this  world,  as  today.  He 
never  has  been  so  completely  defeated  as  in  the  successful  establishment 
of  this  Church,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  He 
has  sought  by  every  power  and  means  at  his  command  to  destroy  it,  and 
he  has  failed.  And  he  will  fail  in  the  future.  He  is  gathering  his 
forces  for  the  great  conflict  and  struggle,  even  Armageddon,  when 
the  living  righteous  and  righteous  dead  shall  be  arrayed  on  one  side 
against  the  living  wicked  and  the  wicked  dead,  in  a  mighty  conflict, 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD  117 


to  settle  the  question  as  to  who  has  the  right  to  rule  and  reign ;  and 
he  shall  be  defeated,  no  matter  how  great  his  forces. 

god's  power  to  be  manifested 

I  bear  witness  to  you  that  God  is  speaking  through  the  elements  in 
the  midst  of  the  nations  of  the  earth.  He  will  manifest  his  power  as 
never  before.  This  Church  will  have  the  opportunity  to  demoinstrate 
its  power  and  its  influence  in  the  world.  If  only  we  will  adhere  to 
these  principles,  we  shall  rise  and  shine,  and  no  power  on  earth  or  in  hell 
shall  stop  the  progress  and  growth  and  development  of  this  wo;rk.  The 
power  to  make  it  succeed  is  in  our  hands.  God  give  us  the  vision  to  see 
clearly  our  glorious  destiny,  to  recognize  the  principles  by  which  we 
may,  through  adhering  to  them,  reach  that  destiny,  and  come  off  vic- 
torious, to  rejoice  in  the  day  of  the  triumph  of  God's  work  in  the  earth, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  conference  is  drawing  to  a  close. 
Before  we  separate  I  desire  to  make  a  few  remarks,  and  as  a  preface 
to  what  I  wish  to  say  I  will  read  a  few  lines  from  the  Book  of 
Mormon.    These  are  the  words  of  Christ  our  Lord : 

"He  that  believeth  these  things  which  I  have  spoken,  him  will  I  visit  with 
the  manifestations  of  my  Spirit,  and  he  shall  know  and  bear  record.  For  because 
of  my  Sprit  he  shall  know  that  these  things  are  true ;  for  it  persuadeth  men 
to  do  good. 

"And  whatsoever  thing  persuadeth  men  to  do  good  is  of  me ;  for  good 
cometh  of  none  save  it  be  of  me." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  during  the  sessions  of  this  conference 
a  great  variety  of  topics  have  been  touched  upon.  The  doctrines 
of  the  gospel,  the  moral  obligations  which  are  upon  us  all,  to  be 
observers  and  exemplars  of  righteousness,  the  foundation  upon 
which  the  Church  is  builded,  and  the  circumstances  under  which 
it  came  into  existence  in  this  dispensation  have  all  been  referred  to 
by  the  speakers. 

THE  GOSPEL  NOT  SOMETHING  NEW 

The  one  thing  which  I  wish  to  impress  upon  your  minds  is 
this :  The  opening  of  this  gospel  dispensation,  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel  of  Christ  in  the  day  in  which  we  live,  did  not  come  as 
an  incident  connected  wholly  with  our  day  and  time.  It  is  not 
something  new  that  has  come  into  the  world  in  conflict  with  other 
truths  that  exist  in  it,  but  it  is  a  restoration  of  that  which  was  com- 
menced with  the  very  beginning  of  the  human  race,  and  is  intimate- 
ly connected  with  that  which  shall  continue  unto  the  end. 

It  is  true,  as  has  been  stated,  that  the  priesthood  of  God  our 
Father  has  come  to  us  through  the  ministry  of  angels  whom  he  has 
sent  to  the  earth.    It  is  true  that  there  was  no  other  church,  as  has 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


been  stated,  where  this  authority  existed.  But  that  does  not  mean 
and  I  would  not  have  you  understand  that  other  men  in  times 
past,  and  other  men  at  present,  may  not  be  inspired  of  God  our 
Father  to  perform  the  work  which  they  are  doing.  The  Church 
has  no  conflict  with  men  who  are  thus  discharging  their  mission. 

god's  promises  to  be  fulfilled 

The  covenants  entered  into  by  God  our  Father  with  his  people 
appear  to  have  been  almost  lost,  and  absolutely  so,  for  the  mission 
of  Christ  himself  at  the  time  of  his  death  appeared  to  have  been  a 
failure.  The  promises  made  to  the  house  of  Israel  had  not  been 
fulfilled.  They  were  scattered,  their  whereabouts  unknown  to  the 
people  at  large.  And  yet  the  Lord  had  said  that  those  promises 
were  eternal.  That  means  that  they  should  live  forever.  After  the 
dispersal  of  Israel  there  came  a  period,  centuries  of  time,  in  which 
we  have  little  authentic  history.  When  we  emerged  from  it  we 
found  ourselves  in  a  world  that  was  dominated  by  kingcraft  and 
priestcraft.  We  found  a  people  uneducated,  untaught,  untutored, 
without  knowledge  of  the  word  of  the  Lord  as  contained  in  Holy 
Writ,  for  that  was  a  book  which  had  been  sealed  to  them. 

THE  WORK  OF  THE  REFORMERS 

Then  there  came  such  men  as  John  Wycliffe.  Do  you  think 
that  God  called  him  ?  Yes,  just  as  definitely  as  he  called  Joseph 
Smith,  not  to  perform  the  same  work;  but  this  great  personage, 
amid  a  time  of  confusion  and  ignorance,  declared  that  the  word 
of  God  should  be  published  to  the  people,  and  the  church  said, 
"It  shall  not  be  published.  We  have  the  Pope,  and  we  had  better 
be  without  the  law  of  God  than  without  him."  That  is  a  historical 
fact.  But  Wycliffe  went  on.  He  did  publish  a  Bible,  and  he  was 
hounded  and  persecuted  to  his  death  for  having  done  it,  and  after 
he  died  a  petition  was  presented  asking  that  his  remains  be  buried 
in  a  dunghill  because  of  this  great  sin  that  he  had  committed. 
He  had  actually  published  the  scriptures.  Finally,  after  a  rather 
decent  burial,  his  body  was  disinterred,  burned,  and  the  ashes  scat- 
tered in  the  river  Swift,  and  carried  by  that  into  the  Severn,  and 
thence  into  the  ocean,  in  order  that  his  work  might  be  obliterated. 

One  hundred  years  later  came  William  Tyndale  with  the  same 
message,  meeting  with  the  same  opposition.  The  church  would 
not  permit  that  the  word  of  God  be  published.  Tyndale  said,  "I 
will  make  every  ploughboy  in  England  to  understand  the  scrip- 
ture better  than  the  Pope  himself."  Do  you  think  that  the  Lord 
called  that  man?  Yes,  as  definitely  as  he  has  ever  called  a  man 
to  do  His  work. 

Then  came  Martin  Luther,  that  great  soul,  who  had  the  cour- 
age to  stand  against  priestcraft  and  kingcraft,  and  declare  that  his 
conscience  was  a  captive  to  God's  word.  That  was  his  declara- 
tion when  he  stood  before  the  Diet  at  Worms.    "There  I  take  my 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IV INS  119 


stand;  I  can  do  no  otherwise.  So  help  me  God."  That  was  his 
answer  to  his  accusers. 

Tyndale  was  strangled  by  order  of  the  church  because  he  as- 
sumed to  publish  the  Word  of  God.  It  was  at  a  time  when  the 
Duke  of  Alva  went  into  the  Netherlands,  authorized  by  the  church 
to  put  to  death  all  who  were  not  orthodox,  and  he  himself  was 
the  judge  of  their  orthodoxy,  who  afterwards  boasted  that  he  had 
executed  eighteen  thousand  men,  and  women  were  not  spared. 
Any  person  who  had  the  effrontery  or  the  courage  to  say  that  the 
Eucharist  was  not  actually  converted  into  the  body  and  blood  of 
Christ,  when  he  ate  that  piece  of  bread,  and  drank  a  swallow  of 
wine,  was  put  to  death. 

Those  were  the  conditions  which  existed.  The  Lord  raised 
these  men  up  and  associations  were  formed  protesting  against  such 
abuses.  Thank  the  Lord  for  them,  paving  the  way  for  the  open- 
ing of  this  gospel  dispensation,  when  righteousness  might  prevail. 

THE  ATTITUDE  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  the  friend 
of  every  man  or  woman,  every  association  of  men  or  women  which 
is  formed  that  has  for  its  purpose  the  accomplishment  of  good. 
The  words  of  Christ  are  true :  That  which  is  good  comes  from 
God,  and  that  which  is  evil  and  tends  to  lead  men  away  from  the 
truth  comes  from  that  evil  one. 

But  when  it  comes  to  associations  of  men  and  women,  whether 
they  be  ecclesiastical  or  whether  they  be  civil,  that  are  bound  to- 
gether either  secretly  or  openly  for  the  accomplishment  of  a  selfish 
purpose,  or  for  the  accomplishment  of  a  purpose  that  is  contrary 
to  the  word  of  the  Lord  as  it  is  contained  in  the  scriptures,  against 
all  such  the  Church  is  opposed. 

I  thought  I  would  like  to  make  that  plain.  Thank  the  Lord 
for  good  men  and  women  whether  they  are  in  the  Church  or  out 
of  it.  Thank  the  Lord  for  the  efforts  which  are  put  forth  to  in- 
cline men  to  faith  in  Christ  and  to  bring  them  to  him.  But  we  are 
irrevocably  opposed  to  any  association,  whether  it  be  religious, 
political,  or  social,  which  denies  these  eternal  truths,  which  binds 
men  in  the  bonds  of  ignorance,  which  shackles  them  as  the  people 
of  the  world  were  shackled  in  the  middle  ages,  which  slays  men 
because  they  do  not  accept  their  point  of  view.  It  is  anti-Christ, 
and  not  the  doctrine  of  Christ  our  Lord.  Those  millions  of  people 
in  Mexico  who  are  fighting  today  for  personal  liberty  will  no 
longer  be  held  in  bondage,  kept  in  ignorance  of  the  word  of  God, 
and  denied  those  privileges  of  progression  which  everyone  is  en- 
titled to. 

This  is  the  attitude  of  the  Church.  We  do  not  want  to  be  at 
enmity  with  any  good  man  or  woman,  or  with  any  good  institution. 
But  we  are  against  that  which  leads  men  and  women  into  evil. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  send  us  away  from 
here  with  a  renewed  determination  to  establish  righteousness,  to 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


give  our  sympathy  to  everything  that  leads  to  the  intellectual  and  spiritual 
development  of  mankind.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Before  closing  this  conference,  although  the  time  has  expired,  I 
desire  to  say  a  few  more  words.  I  realize  that  there  are  people  here 
from  all  our  stakes  from  Canada  to  Mexico,  and  I  feel  assured  in  my 
heart  that  they  will  be  perfectly  willing  to  stay  a  few  minutes  beyond  the 
allotted  time. 

GRATITUDE  FOR  SPIRIT  OF  THE  LORD 

I  desire  to  express  my  gratitude  for  the  rich  outpouring  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  during  our  three  days  of  conference,  for  the  splendid 
music,  for  the  inspirational  prayers,  expressive  of  the  heartfelt  devotion 
of  those  who  have  prayed  for  us,  for  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
for  the  Lord's  many  blessings  unto  us. 

TIME  INSUFFICIENT  TO  HEAR  ALL  AUTHORITIES 

I  am  truly  grateful  for  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  to  each  and 
all  of  those  who  have  spoken.  It  would  have  been  a  source  of  pleasure 
to  me  to  have  heard  from  all  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church ; 
also  from  some  of  the  stake  presidents  and  others  that  I  had  in  mind 
to  call  upon;  but  time  forbids.  As  I  have  remarked  upon  several  oc- 
casions, I  think  we  ought  to  have  at  least  one  more  meeting  of  two 
hours  in  addition  to  the  six  meetings  we  now  have  in  our  conferences ; 
there  are  so  many  that  we  should  like  to  hear ;  but,  to  date,  we  have 
been  contented  with  twelve  hours  of  general  conference  meetings. 
Twelve  hours  once  in  six  months  is  not  a  very  long  period  for  the 
people  to  stay  together,  and  yet  we  notice  considerable  restlessness  in 
a  meeting  the  moment  the  two  hours  are  up.  But,  even  at  the  risk  of 
wearying  you,  there  are  a  few  things  more  I  desire  to  say. 

A  BLESSING  FOR  AUTHORITIES  AND  MEMBERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

I  wish  to  endorse  the  remarks  that  have  been  made  at  this  con- 
ference from  start  to  finish.  I  wish  to  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints 
that  I  believe  God  is  blessing  every  one  of  us  who  is  keeping  his  com- 
mandments, beyond  even  that  of  which  we  are  worthy.  I  know  he 
has  blessed  me  beyond  all  that  I  could  have  asked  or  expected  in  my 
ministry,  from  the  day  that  I  was  made  the  President  of  the  Tooele 
stake  of  Zion  to  this  moment.  And  I,  as  the  President  of  the  Church, 
standing  at  the  head  of  the  Church,  pray  God  our  heavenly  Father  to 
bless  each  and  every  one  of  the  general,  stake,  ward,  auxiliary,  temple, 
school  and  mission  authorities,  all  over  the  world,  all  men  and  women 
who  are  striving  honestly  and  conscientiously  to  fulfil  the  duties  and 
the  obligations  that  rest  upon  them.  I  pray  that  all  men  and  all 
women  who  hold  any  place  of  responsibility,  no  matter  how  high  or 
how  low,  may  magnify  their  callings  and  preach  the  gospel  by  their 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


121 


example  of  righteousness,  that  they  may  grow  and  increase  in  influence 
with  God,  and  with  those  over  whom  they  preside.  I  promise  every 
soul  holding  any  place  of  responsibility  that  the  blessings  of  the 
Almighty  shall  be  and  abide  with  him  if  he  strive,  to  the  full  extent  of 
his  ability,  to  magnify  his  callings. 

A  BLESSING  FOR  GOVERNMENT  OFFICIALS 

I  pray  God  to  bless  his  Saints  all  over  the  wide  world,  and  I  bless 
them  by  the  authority  of  the  priesthood  which  I  hold.  I  pray  for  our 
country  and  ask  the  Lord  to  bless  those  who  preside  in  the  nation,  in 
the  states,  in  the  cities  and  in  the  counties.  I  pray  God  to  inspire  the 
people  that  they  will  obey  his  commands,  and  elect  good  men  to  office ; 
that  they  will  bury  their  political  differences  and  seek  for  good  men 
to  hold  office,  and  not  men  who  connive  with  those  who  are  breaking 
the  laws  of  our  country.  It  is  one  of  the  articles  of  our  faith  to  obey 
and  uphold  the  laws  of  the  land.  May  God  help  us  to  do  it.  May  .the 
sweet  influences  of  his  Spirit  attend  every  honest-hearted  soul  the 
world  over.  And  I  pray  for  their  welfare  and  particularly  for  the  wel- 
fare of  all  who  are  striving  for  the  spread  of  the  gospel,  and  I  do  it  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  a  quartet  sang  the  anthem,  "Let  the  mountains 
shout  for  joy,"  led  by  Professor  Evan  Stephens  who  composed  the 
anthem. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  "Doxology." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  J.  Fred  Corbett,  pres- 
ident of  the  Idaho  stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing,  assisted  by 
B.  Cecil  Gates.  Accompaniments  and  interludes  were  played  on  the 
great  organ  by  Edward  P.  Kimball,  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Frank  W. 
Asper  and  Alexander  Schreiner. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Authorities  Present    1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of   41 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J  113 

A  Book  of  Mormon  message,  113 — Dangers  that  threaten  the  world, 
114 — The  Lord's  promise  to  the  Church,  114 — Can  our  civilization 
endure,  115 — A  kingdom  that  will  never  fall,  116— Satan  shall  be 
defeated,  116 — God's  power  to  be  manifested,  117. 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q   16 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   40 

Clawson,  President  Rudger   47 

All  are  subject  to  law,  47 — Laws  of  God  and  laws  of  Man,  48 — 
The  purpose  of  the  constitution,  49 — Our  attitude  towards  the  con- 
stitution, 49 — Prohibition  law  should  be  observed,  49 — All  kingdoms 
governed  by  law,  50 — Blessings  predicated  upon  obedience  to  law,  50 
— The  new  and  everlasting  covenant,  50 — Blessings  derived  from 
payment  of  tithes,  51 — Blessings  obtained  through  obeying  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  51 — Distinction  between  destroying  angel  and  angel  of 
death,  51. 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting    2 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   24 

General  Authorities  Present    1 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church    41 

General  Officers  of  the  Church  •. .  42 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church   43 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 

Changes  in  Stake  and  Mission  officers  since  last  October  Con- 
ference, 3 — Financial  statement,  3 — Statistical  and  other  reports  com- 
piled from  Church  records  for  the  year  1927,  4 — Impressed  with 
hymn,  5 — The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  6 — Cites  achievements,  7 — The 
Arizona  Temple,  7 — Purchase  of  Hill  Cumorah,  8 — Temple  Work,  8 
— A  wonderful  declaration,  9. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   23 

Concerning  telegram  about  radio  service,  23. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   24 

Introducing  Mr.  Roy  O.  Wyland,  24. 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Grant,  President  Heber  J   41 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  others  excused,  41. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   41 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers,  41. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   91 

Regarding  discontinuing  meetings  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  91. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   97 

Reference  to  Parley  P.  Pratt  as  a  writer  of  hymns,  97. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  120 

Gratitude  for  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  120 — Time  insufficient  to  hear  all 
authorities,  120 — A  blessing  for  authorities  and  .members  of  the 
Church,  120 — A  blessing  for  government  officials,  121. 

Hart,  Elder  Charles  H  100 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W   10 

Of  more  than  ordinary  importance,  10 — 'Two  sets  of  plates,  11 — 
Carefully  preserved,  11 — Ammaron  to  Mormon,  12 — Years  of  constant 
war,  12 — In  the  Hill  Cumorah,  13 — The  final  disposition,  13 — Part 
of  the  record  sealed,  14— From  the  Book  of  Ether,  14 — Await- 
ing the  time,  IS — Until  the  last,  IS. 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W  117 

The  gospel  not  something  new,  117 — God's  promises  to  be  fulfilled 
118 — The  work  of  the  Reformers,  118 — The  attitude  of  the  Church, 
119. 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden    74 

Knight,  Elder  John  M   61 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   71 

A  tribute  by  Senator  Owen,  71 — Our  work  in  Scouting,  71 — The 
Church's  missionary  system,  72 — Fruits  of  Mutual  Improvement 
work,  73 — Sentiments  of  great  leaders,  73— A  clearness  of  vision,  74. 

McKay,  Elder  David  0  102 

True  Education,  102 — Responsibility  of  parents,  102 — Responsibility 
of  priesthood  quorums,  103 — Quorum  potency,  104— Other  Church 
educational  factors,  105 — Community  influence,  105. 

McMurrin,  Elder  Joseph  W   97 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F.   37 

Nibley,  President  Charles  W   85 


Many  signs  of  the  times,  86 — Through  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  86 — 
This  Church  stands  alone,  87 — Not  founded  on  men,  88 — The  human 
Peter,  88— The  spirit  of  revelation,  89— What  Paul  said,  89— 
Covenants  with  house  of  Israel,  90 — The  first  world  war,  90. 


INDEX 


125 


Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L   20 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   32 

Practical  value  of  Scouting,  32— God  to  raise  up  a  man  whose  name 
was  Joseph,  33 — Evidence  of  truth  of  the  gospel,  33 — Witnesses  to 
testify,  33 — Testimony  of  Book  of  Mormon  witnesses,  34 — Testi- 
monies that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  true  prophet,  34 — Prophet's  story 
must  be  true,  35 — A  falling  away  before  a  restoration,  35 — Keys  of 
the  priesthood  restored,  35 — Foreseeing  of  restoration  proof  of  fall- 
ing away,  36 — John's  vision  completely  fulfilled,  36 — Not  all  accom- 
plished at  once,  37 — Heber  J.  Grant  a  prophet  of  God,  37. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   29 

A  message  of  joy,  30 — Principles  of  gospel  a  stabilizing  force,  30 — 
Provision  for  improvement  and  progression,  31 — Material  prosperity 
not  condemned,  31 — Joy  through  sacrifice  and  service,  31— Our 
obligation,  32. 

Roberts,  Elder  Brigham  H  106 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting   44 

Second  day,  Afternoon  Meeting    64 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   44 

The  Mutual  Improvement  plan,  44 — Other  departments  of  the  Church, 
46 — Opportunity  for  development  and  growth,  46 — A  new  plan,  47. 

Smith,  Elder  Hyrum  G   82 

Desire  for  greater  strength,  82 — The  passing  of  a  patriarch,  82 — 
Honor  and  recognition  due  stake  patriarchs,  83 — Blessings  of  eternal 
character,  83 — Testimony  of  power  in  the  Church,  84 — Blessing  pro- 
nounced upon  the  people,  84. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   64 

Teach  as  directed  by  the  Spirit,  64 — Faith  a  necessary  qualification. 
64 — Members  of  the  Church  should  be  properly  trained,  65 — Saving 
principles,  66 — Fulness  of  truth  promised  to  faithful,  66 — Seek  men 
of  faith  and  testimony,  66 — The  spirit  of  truth,  67 — How  to  avoid 
deception,  67. 

Talmage,  Elder  James  E   91 

Truth  not  conditioned  by  human  comprehension,  91 — At  the  tomb — 
as  predicted,  92 — On  the  way  to  Emmaus,  92 — Manifestations  to  the 
disciples,  93 — In  the  realm  of  the  dead,  94 — Lucifer's  design  failed, 
94 — Christ's  attributes — human  and  divine,  94 — Actuality  of  the  res- 
urrection, 95 — Man  is  of  eternal  nature,  96. 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H   80 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting    85 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting  101 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   68 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Whitney,  Elder  Orson  F   56 

The  conference  keynote,  56 — A  prophecy  and  its  fulfilment,  56 — 
Marvels  and  wonders,  57 — Almost  as  wonderful,  58 — Lincoln  and 
Greeley,  58—  Outside  and  inside  auxiliaries,  59 — Israel  and  the 
Gentiles,  59 — The  wise  and  prudent,  60 — Only  one  way,  61. 

Wyland,  Mr.  Roy  O   24 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar    52 


Can  you  answer  all  of  the  questions  that  are  put  to  you  about 
the  Church? 


THE  OFFICIAL 

History  of  the  Church 

Will  answer  many  of  these  questions  for  you. 

IN  SIX  LARGE  VOLUMES 

Compiled  by  the  Church  Historians  and  published  by  the  Church. 
Completing  the  First  Period. 
"The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with  introduction  and 
notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts. 

Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  and  Private  Library 
should  have  a  set. 

Cloth — Embossed,  per  vol  $2.50  Postpaid 

Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  vol   3.50  " 

Full  Morocco— Full  Gilt  Edge,  per  vol   6.00 


The  above  work  is  suggested  as  reference  in  connection  with  the 
study  of  Church  History  in  all  of  the  activities  of  the  Church. 


For  the  reader  who  does  not  want  this  exhaustive  history,  we  rec- 
ommend the  one  volume  book  entitled 

Essentials  in  Church  History 

BY  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

"As  the  title  of  the  book  implies,  the  vital  and  essential  points  of 
history  and  doctrine  have  been  selected,  and  as  far  as  possible  arranged 
in  chronological  order." 

PRICE,  CLOTH  BINDING— $1.75 


Deseret  Book  Company 

44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 


WHENCE  THIS  GOSPEL  WE  TEACH? 

Read: 

"Restoration  of  the  Gospel" 

BY  OSBORNE  J.  P.  WIDTSOE 

"This  book  prepared  by  Elder  Osborne  J.  P.  Widtsoe,  dealing  with 
the  important  subject  of  the  Restoration  of  the  everlasting  Gospel, 
should  be  read  and  its  contents  carefully  considered  by  those  who  are 
seeking  after  truth."  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr. 

PRICE  $1.00  POSTPAID 


A  TIMELY  BOOK  by  a  Competent  Writer-- 

in  commemoration  of  the  One  Hundredth  Year  since  the  Angel  Moroni 
delivered  the  plates  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 

the  DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY  offers  the  First  Edition  of 

An  INTRODUCTION 

to  the  Study  of  the 

BOOK  OF  MORMON 

BY  J.  M.  SJODAHL 

This  book  is  something  new.    Is  highly  recommended 
Many  unanswerable  arguments  for  the 
Divinity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
Many  splendid  illustrations  by  courtesy  of  the  National  Geographic 
Yale  Expedition  to  Peru,  Etc. 
INSTRUCTIVE  SCIENTIFIC  NEW 

Price,  Cloth  $3.50— Leather  $5.50  Over  500  Pages 


ARTICLES  OF  FAITH 

BY  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

A  consideration  of  the  principal  doctrines  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

This  book  will  be  helpful  to  all  who  desire  a  clear  and  concrete 
exposition  of  the  beliefs  and  attitudes  of  the  "Mormons." 

PRICE  $1.00 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 


