OnsL  cHundtetL  Jwsink^-aiqhth. 
ANNUAL 

conmcf 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

OphiL  $,  5,  antL  6,  1958 

With  Report  of  Discourses 

ML) 

Published  by 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


GENERAL  BOARD  Or  PRIMARY  LIBRARY^ 

Accession  No  - 

Cal!  No  - 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-eighth  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-eighth 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was 
held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday, 
April  4,  5,  and  6,  1958. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00  p.m., 
Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  and  the 
General  Priesthood  meeting  was  held  in 
the  Tabernacle,  Saturday  evening,  April 
5,  at  7:00. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  ses- 
sions were  broadcast  and  telecast  over 
Station  KSL  and  KSL-TV  at  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  and  by  arrangement  through 
KSL  the  following  stations  made  avail- 
able to  their  listening  or  viewing  audi- 
ences one  or  more  of  the  six  general 
sessions' 

In  Utah:  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KSUB 
at  Cedar  City,  KVEL  at  Vernal,  KVNU 
at  Logan. 

In  Idaho:  KRXK  at  Rexburg,  KBAR 
at  Burley,  KID  and  KID-TV  at  Idaho 
Falls,  KBOI  and  KBOI-TV  at  Boise, 
KLIX-TV  at  Twin  Falls,  KLEW-TV  at 
Lewiston. 

In  Nevada:  KVLV  at  Fallon,  KLAS- 
TV  at  Las  Vegas. 

In  California:  KEEN  at  San  Jose, 
KSRO  at  Santa  Rosa,  KRDG  at  Red- 
ding, KGO-TV  at  San  Francisco,  KNXT 
at  Hollywood,  KEY-T  at  Santa  Barbara, 
KERO-TV  at  Bakersfield,  KFMB-TV  at 
San  Diego,  KOVR  at  Stockton,  KIEM- 
TV  at  Eureka. 

In  Oregon:  KWRC  at  Pendleton, 
KOIN-TV  at  Portland,  KBES-TV  at 
Medford,  KOTI-TV  at  Klamath  Falls. 

In  Arizona:  KOLD  at  Tucson,  KOOL- 
TV  at  Phoenix. 

In  Colorado:  KBTV  at  Denver. 

In  Washington:  KXLY-TV  at  Spo- 
kane, KTNT-TV  at  Tacoma,  KIMA-TV 
at  Yakima,  KEPR-TV  at  Pasco,  KBAS- 
TV  at  Ephrata. 

All  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall 


on  Temple  Square,  in  Barratt  Hall  (60 
North  Main  Street),  over  a  loudspeak- 
ing  system  and  by  television.  Thousands, 
in  addition,  listened  to  the  services  on 
the  Tabernacle  Grounds  by  means  of 
amplifying  equipment. 

The  proceedings  of  the  General 
Priesthood  meeting  were  broadcast  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall 
over  public  address  systems,  and  by  di- 
rect wire  over  a  public  address  system  to 
members  of  the  Priesthood  in  other 
assemblies  in  Utah,  Colorado,  Idaho, 
Washington,  Oregon,  Arizona,  Wyo- 
ming, Nevada,  Illinois,  New  Mexico, 
Maryland,  Montana,  New  York,  Cali- 
fornia, Pennsylvania,  Texas,  Ohio,  In- 
diana, Wisconsin,  Michigan,  Con- 
necticut, Massachusetts,  South  Carolina, 
Virginia,  Minnesota,  and  Canada. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services  at  each  of  the 
sessions  of  the  Conference,  including 
the  General  Priesthood  meeting. 

A  full  report  of  Columbia  Broadcast- 
ing System's  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
Organ  broadcast  is  also  included  in  this 
record,  as  is  also  a  full  account  of  Co- 
lumbia's Church  of  the  Air  program. 
(See  pages  133-139.) 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  was  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  David  O. 
McKay,  Stephen  L  Richards,  and  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Harold  B.  Lee, 
Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson, 
Mark  E.  Petersen,  Henry  D.  Moyle,  Del- 
bert  L.  Stapley,  Marion  G.  Romney, 
LeGrand  Richards,  \  Richard  L.  Evans, 
George  Q.  Morris,  and  Hugh  B.  Brown.2 

JElder  Adam  S.  Bennion  passed  away  February  II, 
1958. 

2Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown  was  sustained  April  6,  1958 
as  an  Apostle  and  a  member  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G. 
Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles?, 
Clifford  E.  Young,  Alma  Sonne,  EIRay 
L.  Christiansen,  John  Longden,  4,  Sterling 
W.  Sill,  Gordon  B.  Hinckley5,  and  Henry 
D.  Taylor6. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy:  Levi 
Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins, 7,  Sey- 
mour Dilworth  Young,  Milton  R.  Hunt- 
er, Bruce  R.  McConkie,  Marion  Duff 
Hanks,  and  Albert  Theodore  Tuttle8. 

Presiding  Bishopric:  Joseph  L.  Wirth- 
lin,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  and  Carl  W. 
Buehner. 

General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Jo- 
seph Fielding  Smith,  and  as  assistants, 
A.  William  Lund  and  Preston  Nibley. 

Members  of  the  General  Welfare  Com- 
mittee, Church  Welfare  Program. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Edu- 

3Elder  Thomas  E.  McKay  passed  away  January  15, 
1958. 

4Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown  was  sustained  April  6,  1958 
as  an  Apostle  and  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 

EElder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley  was  sustained  April  6, 
1958  as  an  Assistant  to  the  Twelve  Apostles. 

6Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor  was  sustained  April  6, 
1958  as  an  Assistant  to  the  Twelve  Apostles. 

'Elder  Oscar  A.  Kirkham  passed  away  March  10, 
1958. 

8Elder  Albert  Theodore  Tuttle  was  sustained  as  a 
member  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  April  6,  1958. 


cation  and  Administrator  Church  Board 
of  Education,  Directors  and  Associate 
Directors  of  Institutes,  and  Seminary  In- 
structors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coun- 
selors, Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs, 
High  Priests,  Seventies,  Elders,  General, 
Stake,  and  Ward  officers  of  Auxiliary 
Associations,  etc.,  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church. 

Mission  Presidents:  Richard  L.  Evans, 
Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City;  Henry 
D.  Taylor,  California;  J.  Earl  Lewis, 
Canadian;  Edgar  L.  Wagner,  Central 
American;  Henry  A.  Smith,  Central  At- 
lantic States;  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Central 
States;  M.  Ross  Richards,  East  Central 
States;  Theodore  C.  Jacobsen,  Eastern 
States;  Reuel  E.  Christensen,  Great 
Lakes;  Lincoln  F.  Hanks,  Gulf  States; 
D.  Arthur  Haycock,  Hawaii;  Claudious 
Bowman,  Mexican;  Junius  M.  Jackson, 
New  England;  Paul  C.  Child,  North 
Central  States;  J.  Leonard  Love,  North- 
ern California;  Harvey  H.  Taylor,  North- 
ern Mexican;  Richard  C.  Stratford, 
Northern  States;  Douglas  H.  Driggs, 
Northwestern  States;  Berkeley  L.  Bunker, 
Southern  States;  Alfred  E.  Rohner, 
Southwest  Indian;  Harold  I.  Bowman, 
Spanish- American;  Casper  W.  Merrill, 
West  Central  States;  Leland  M.  Perry, 
West  Spanish-American;  Moroni  M. 
Larson,  Western  Canadian;  and  David 
S.  Romney,  Western  States. 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  opening  session  of  the  Conference 
convened  in  the  great  Tabernacle  Fri- 
day morning,  April  4,  at  10  o'clock,  with 
President  David  O.  McKay  presiding 
and  conducting. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  furnished  the  choral 
music  for  this  session. 

President  McKay  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the  One 
Hundred  Twenty-Eighth  Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened  in 
the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City. 

All  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church  are  in  attendance. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  is  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

For  the  convenience  of  those  who  are 
unable  to  enter  the  building,  we  an- 
nounce that  these  services,  and  all  gen- 
eral sessions  of  the  Conference,  will  be 
broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in 
Barratt  Hall  by  television.  The  general 
sessions  of  this  Conference  will  be  broad- 
cast as  a  public  service  over  television 
and  radio  stations  throughout  the  West. 
The  names  of  these  stations  have  already 
been  announced  to  the  television  and 
the  radio  audience.  To  the  owners  and 
managers  of  these  various  stations  we 
express  our  sincere  appreciation  for  this 
great  public  service  so  generously  ex- 
tended. 

To  the  large  audience  assembled  in 
the  Tabernacle,  the  overflow  gathering 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall, 
and  to  the  untold  thousands  comprising 
the  television  and  radio  audiences,  in 
behalf  of  the  First  Presidency,  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  and  other  General 
Authorities,  we  bid  you  a  hearty  wel- 
come to  this,  the  One  Hundred  Twenty- 
Eighth  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

Any  important  messages  or  calls  that 
come  to  us  for  persons  supposed  to  be 


in  attendance  at  the  sessions  of  this 
Conference  will  be  announced  at  the 
dismissal  of  the  meetings  over  the  public 
address  system  on  the  grounds. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  furnish  the  music 
today  and  it  is  a  joy  to  have  this  group 
present  this  morning. 

The  beautiful  daffodils  that  decorate 
this  building  have  come  from  the  Puyal- 
lup  Valley  Daffodil  Festival,  Incorporat- 
ed, of  Tacoma,  Washington,  in  coopera- 
tion with  the  presidency  of  the  Tacoma 
Stake.  We  also  wish  to  express  heart- 
felt thanks  for  these  glorious  calla  lilies 
which  have  been  sent  to  us  by  the  High 
Priests  of  the  Oakland-Berkeley  Stake, 
California.  The  fragrant  sweet  peas 
have  been  sent  by  the  Indian  children 
of  the  Fort  McDowell,  Arizona,  Indian 
Reservation.  We  express  deep  apprecia- 
tion for  these  beautiful  flowers  which 
have  been  sent  voluntarily  by  these 
three  groups. 

The  following  cable  has  just  been  re- 
ceived from  the  members  of  the  Church 
in  the  Southern  Far  East  Mission,  Hong 
Kong,  China:  "Saints  in  Hong  Kong, 
Formosa,  the  Philippine  Islands  and 
Guam  send  greetings  at  Conference  time. 
We  fully  realize  that  there  is  no  barrier 
to  time  and  space  when  there  is  unity 
of  purpose  and  spiritual  communica- 
tion. We  look  forward  with  anticipa- 
tion to  your  words  of  advice.  May  the 
Lord  bless  you."  Signed  by  H.  Grant 
Heaton,  President,  Southern  Far  East 
Mission. 

Two  plane-loads  of  Servicemen  from 
Fort  Campbell,  Kentucky,  and  Seward 
Airforce  Base,  Tennessee,  have  come  by 
air  with  the  cooperation  of  the  military, 
to  attend  these  services. 

We  acknowledge  the  presence  of  the 
following  distinguished  visitors — there 
may  be  others,  but  these  have  been 
handed  in,  and  we  extend  welcome  to 
you.  We  are  glad  to  welcome  our  fel- 
low worker,  Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson, 
United  States  Secretary  of  Agriculture; 
Arthur  V.  Watkins,  United  States  Sen- 
ator; Wallace  F.  Bennett,  United  States 
Senator;  Henry  Aldous  Dixon,  Congress- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  4 

man;  Ernest  L.  Wilkinson,  President  of 
the  Brigham  Young  University;  President 
A.  Ray  Olpin  of  the  University  of  Utah; 
J.  Elliott  Cameron,  Director  of  the  Snow 
College;  E.  Allen  Bateman,  State  Super- 
intendent of  Public  Instruction;  and  per- 
haps others  whom  I  am  sure  we  may 
not  see.  I  would  like  to  mention,  also, 
the  presence  of  Mr.  Elmaar  H.  Bakken, 
Director  of  the  Division  of  Relation- 
ships, National  Council,  Boy  Scouts  of 
America,  from  New  Brunswick,  New 
Jersey. 

We  received  a  telegram  this  morning 
from  Mayor  Adiel  F.  Stewart,  who  had 
another  appointment  and  is  unable  to 
be  present,  but  who  sends  his  regrets 
at  not  being  able  to  be  present  and  his 
best  wishes  for  a  successful  Conference. 

We  also  acknowledge  the  presence  of 
our  stake  presidencies,  bishoprics,  temple 
presidencies,  and  general  auxiliary  of- 
ficers. We  have  before  us,  also,  our 
mission  presidents  from  the  United 
States,  Mexico,  Central  America,  Can- 
ada, and  Hawaii. 

To  all  we  extend  a  hearty  welcome, 
and  express  satisfaction  and  pleasure  in 
your  presence  and  your  cooperative  spirit 
in  these  sessions.  The  singing  for  this 
morning's  session,  as  already  announced, 
will  be  furnished  by  the  Brigham  Young 
University    Combined    Choruses  with 


First  Day 

Elder  John  R.  Halliday  conducting,  and 
Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  open  this  service  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses  singing,  "How  Beautiful  Are 
The  Feet  Of  Him,"  to  be  conducted  by 
Elder  Halliday.  The  opening  prayer 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  A.  Hamer  Reis- 
er, formerly  president  of  the  British  Mis- 
sion and  president  of  the  Sugar  House 
Stake. 

Singing  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  "How  Beau- 
tiful Are  the  Feet  of  Him." 

Elder  A.  Hamer  Reiser,  president  of 
the  Sugar  House  Stake,  offered  the  in- 
vocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  just  offered  by 
Elder  A.  Hamer  Reiser,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  British  Mission  and  now 
president  of  the  Sugar  House  Stake.  The 
Brigham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses  will  now  sing,  "O  My  Father," 
the  solo  by  Sister  Janice  Bailey,  con- 
ducted by  Elder  John  R.  Halliday. 

Selection  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  "O  My 
Father." 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


May  I  say  to  these  students  that  their 
presence  and  especially  their  inspiring 
singing  add  much  to  the  sacredness  of 
this  assembly.  It  is  glorious  to  have 
several  hundred  students  sing  with  such 
spirit  and  devotion.  We  are  proud  of 
them  and  of  the  university  from  which 
they  come.  We  appreciate  the  co-opera- 
tion of  President  Wilkinson,  members 
of  the  faculty,  and  the  students  in  post- 
poning their  regular  day's  work  in 
school  to  join  in  this  worship. 

It  is  over  fifty  years  since  I  stood 
here  for  the  first  time  as  one  of  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church.  I 
remember  well  then  my  trembling  and 
humility  at  facing  such  an  audience  and 
accepting  a  position  as  one  of  the  lead- 
ers. The  passing  of  a  half  a  century 
has  made  it  no  easier  to  face  this  vast 
audience  and  to  realize  the  responsibility 


that  one  holds  in  discharging  such  a 
responsibility.  This  morning,  as  then 
and  during  the  intervening  years,  I  so- 
licit your  sympathy  and  your  prayers. 

A  year  has  passed  since  we  met  on 
such  an  occasion.  In  behalf  of  the  First 
Presidency  I  bid  you  welcome,  not  only 
those  who  are  here  in  the  Tabernacle, 
the  Assembly  Hall,  and  other  surround- 
ing halls,  but  also  the  vast  audience  lis- 
tening in  over  radio  and  television.  We 
are  very  happy  indeed  that  you  are  tak- 
ing time  out  to  participate  in  the  gen- 
eral conference  of  the  Church. 

We  extend  welcome  especially  to  the 
31,817  converts  of  the  Church  during 
this  past  year.  That  group  alone  will 
constitute  six  stakes  of  five  thousand 
each.  We  bid  you  welcome  and  trust 
that  you,  with  all  others  listening  in, 
will   realize   the    added  responsibility 


PRESIDENT  D 

which  is  yours  as  you  assume  the  re- 
sponsibility of  membership  in  the 
Church  of  Christ. 

We  wish  to  commend  the  mission- 
aries in  the  stakes  and  in  the  field  who 
have  been  instrumental  in  bringing 
these  added  numbers  to  the  Church  of 
Christ — six  new  stakes,  more  than  that 
if  we  limit  the  number  to  three  thou- 
sand each. 

"And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor 
all  your  days  in  crying  repentance  unto 
this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one 
soul  unto  me,  how  great  shall  be  your 
joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my 
Father!"  (D  &  C  18:15.) 

And  as  you  bring  many  souls,  how 
much  joy  you  will  experience.  We 
commend  those  who  have  been  diligent 
during  the  past  year  in  carrying  the 
message  of  glad  tidings  to  so  many  peo- 
ple. 

I  shall  not  take  time  to  report  the 
advance  in  priesthood  work,  in  auxiliary 
work,  and  other  phases  of  the  Church, 
but  you  may  feel  gratified  indeed  with 
the  work  of  the  past  year. 

It  has  been  difficult  for  me  to  put 
even  in  outline  the  message  that  I  have 
had  in  my  heart  for  the  people  of  the 
Church  and  the  people  of  the  world. 
There  is  a  saying  by  Paul,  that  "to  be 
carnally  minded  is  death;  but  to  be 
spiritually  minded  is  life  and  peace." 
(Rom.  8:6.) 

Carnal  relates,  as  you  know,  to  the 
physical.  It  includes  sensual.  But  we 
have  in  mind  this  morning  the  physical 
surroundings  and  our  animal  instincts, 
the  anger  that  comes  to  us,  the  un- 
pleasant words  that  are  spoken,  making 
life  unpleasant,  rather  than  emphasizing 
the  spiritual  side,  the  real  side  of  our 
nature. 

The  text  was  suggested  several  weeks 
ago,  particularly  emphasized  at  that 
time,  by  a  report  that  came  to  me  of 
unpleasantness  in  a  home,  and  I 
wondered  why  we  cannot  emphasize 
spiritual  attitudes  in  our  homes  instead 
of  unpleasant  attitudes;  why,  having 
before  us  all  the  admonitions  of  the 
the  Lord,  all  the  opportunities  offered  by 
the  Church,  we  cannot  express  spiritual 
attitudes  every  day  of  our  lives.  What 
good  is  religion  if  it  does  not  make  our 
daily  lives  better?   Why  need  there  be 


VID  O.  McKAY  5 

emphasis  put  upon  the  carnal  side  of 
our  natures?  True,  that  is  the  natural 
reaction  for  all  animals.  But  having  in 
our  possession  the  high  principles  of 
the  gospel  as  revealed  through  Christ, 
why  cannot  members  of  the  Church  at 
least  in  the  home,  in  school,  in  all  their 
associations,  emphasize  the  spiritual  side 
of  their  natures  instead  of  the  carnal 
side? 

I  learned  through  a  letter  of  a  condi- 
tion which  I  think,  so  far  as  members 
of  the  Church  are  concerned,  is  abso- 
lutely inexcusable.  A  husband  and  wife 
quarreling — the  husband  demeaning 
himself  to  such  an  extent  as  to  curse 
his  wife,  and  in  a  mad  fit  of  anger  over- 
turning a  table  spread  with  dishes — a 
creature  in  the  form  of  a  man  harboring 
the  nature  of  an  animal!  A  man  in 
such  a  mental  state  that  the  anger  itself 
does  him  more  harm  than  the  condition 
which  aroused  his  anger,  and  in  reality, 
brothers  and  sisters,  he  suffers  more 
from  the  vexation  than  he  does  from  the 
acts  that  aroused  that  vexation. 

I  wonder  how  long  it  will  take  us  to 
realize  that  in  matters  of  temper  noth- 
ing can  bring  us  damage  but  ourselves — 
we  are  responsible  for  what  helps  us  and 
for  what  injures  us — that  the  harm  that 
each  one  sustains  he  carries  about  with 
him,  and  never  is  he  a  real  sufferer  but 
by  his  own  fault.  I  think  you  get  that 
thought,  and  yet  the  tendency  of  each 
one  is  to  blame  somebody  else,  the  wife 
blaming  the  husband,  the  husband 
blaming  the  wife,  children  finding  fault 
with  the  parents  when  the  fault  lies 
with  themselves.  If  in  the  dignity  of 
manhood  such  a  man  would  cease  to 
magnify  his  troubles;  would  face  things 
as  they  really  are;  recognize  blessings 
that  immediately  surround  him;  cease 
to  entertain  disparaging  wishes  for  an- 
other; how  much  more  of  a  man  he 
would  be,  to  say  nothing  about  being  a 
better  husband  and  a  more  worthy 
father!  A  man  who  cannot  control  his 
temper  is  not  very  likely  to  control  his 
passion,  and  no  matter  what  his  pre- 
tensions in  religion,  he  moves  in  daily 
life  very  close  to  the  animal  plane. 

Religion  is  supposed  to  lift  us  on  a 
higher  level.  Religion  appeals  to  the 
spirit  in  man,  the  real  person,  and  yet 
how  often  notwithstanding  our  possess- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  4 

ing  a  testimony  of  the  truth,  we  yield 
to  the  carnal  side  of  our  nature.  The 
man  who  quarrels  in  his  home,  banishes 
from  his  heart  the  spirit  of  religion.  A 
mother  in  this  Church  who  would  light 
a  cigaret  in  the  home  is  yielding  to 
the  carnal  side  of  her  nature.  How  far 
below  the  ideal  of  the  Church!  Any 
quarreling  in  the  home  is  antagonistic 
to  the  spirituality  which  Christ  would 
have  us  develop  within  us,  and  it  is  in 
our  daily  life  that  these  expressions  have 
their  effect. 

Man  is  making  great  progress  in  sci- 
ence and  invention,  greater  perhaps  than 
ever  before,  but  is  not  making  compara- 
ble progress  in  character  and  spiritual- 
ity. 

I  read  awhile  ago  of  a  remark  of 
General  Omar  N.  Bradley,  formerly 
Army's  Chief  of  Staff,  who  on  one  occa- 
sion said:  "With  the  monstrous  weapons 
man  already  has,  humanity  is  in  danger 
of  being  trapped  in  this  world  by  its 
moral  adolescence.  Our  knowledge  of 
science  has  clearly  outstripped  our  ca- 
pacity to  control  it. 

"We  have  too  many  men  of  science; 
too  few  men  of  God.  We  have  grasped 
the  mystery  of  the  atom  and  rejected 
the  Sermon  on  the  Mount.  Man  is 
stumbling  blindly  through  a  spiritual 
darkness  while  toying  with  the  pre- 
carious secrets  of  life  and  death. 

"The  world  has  achieved  brilliance 
without  wisdom,  power  without  con- 
science. Ours  is  a  world  of  nuclear 
giants  and  ethical  infants.  We  know 
more  about  war  than  we  know  about 
peace,  more  about  killing  than  we  know 
about  living." 

Our  living  comes  hourly  and  daily 
in  the  home,  in  our  association  in  busi- 
ness affairs,  in  our  meeting  strangers. 
It  is  the  attitude  of  the  person  during 
the  daily  contacts  by  which  we  show 
whether  we  are  appealing  to  the  carnal 
or  to  the  spiritual  within  us  and  within 
those  with  whom  we  associate.  It  is 
a  daily  matter.  I  do  not  know  whether 
we  can  get  the  thought  over  or  not.  And 
it  is  within  the  power  of  each  one,  espe- 
cially members  of  the  Church  who  make 
such  pretensions.  You  cannot  imagine 
a  real,  true  Christian,  and  especially 
a  member  of  the  Mormon  Church, 
swearing  at  his  wife.    Why,  it  is  in- 


First  Day 

conceivable  that  such  a  thing  as  that 
could  be  in  a  home  and  especially  with 
children  around.  How  can  anyone  jus- 
tify parents  quarreling  in  front  of  chil- 
dren! In  the  instance  to  which  I  have 
referred  the  man  (I  should  say  the 
brute)  even  struck  his  wife.  Such  a 
thing  should  never  be.  That  is  out  of 
the  life  of  Church  members. 

Christ  has  asked  us  to  develop  the 
spiritual  within  us. 

Man's  earthly  existence  is  but  a  test 
as  to  whether  he  will  concentrate  his 
efforts,  his  mind,  his  soul  upon  things 
which  contribute  to  the  comfort  and 
gratification  of  his  physical  nature  or 
whether  he  will  make  as  his  life's  pur- 
pose the  acquisition  of  spiritual  quali- 
ties. 

"Every  noble  impulse,  every  unselfish 
expression  of  love,  every  brave  suffering 
for  the  right;  every  surrender  of  self  to 
something  higher  than  self;  every  loyalty 
to  an  ideal;  every  unselfish  devotion  to 
principle;  every  helpfulness  to  humanity; 
every  act  of  self-control;  every  fine  cour- 
age of  the  soul,  undefeated  by  pretence 
or  policy,  but  by  being,  doing,  and  liv- 
ing of  good  for  the  very  good's  sake — 
that  is  spirituality." 

The  spiritual  road  has  Christ  as  its 
ideal — not  the  gratification  of  the  physi- 
cal, for  he  that  will  save  his  life,  yield- 
ing to  that  first  gratification  of  a 
seeming  need,  will  lose  his  life,  lose 
his  happiness,  the  pleasure  of  living  at 
this  present  time.  If  he  would  seek  the 
real  purpose  of  life,  the  individual  must 
live  for  something  higher  than  self. 
He  hears  the  Savior's  voice,  saying:  "I 
am  the  way,  the  truth,  and  the  life." 
(John  14:6.)  Following  that  voice  he 
soon  learns  that  there  is  no  one  great 
thing  which  he  can  do  to  attain  happi- 
ness or  eternal  life.  He  learns  that  "life 
is  made  up  not  of  great  sacrifices  or 
duties,  but  of  little  things  in  which 
smiles  and  kindness  and  small  obliga- 
tions given  habitually  are  what  win  and 
preserve  the  heart  and  secure  comfort." 

Spirituality,  our  true  aim,  is  the  con- 
sciousness of  victory  over  self,  and  of 
communion  with  the  Infinite.  Spiritual- 
ity impels  one  to  conquer  difficulties 
and  acquire  more  and  more  strength. 
To  feel  one's  faculties  unfolding,  and 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


7 


truth  expanding  in  the  soul,  is  one  of 
life's  sublimest  experiences. 

"The  thing  a  man  does  practically 
lay  to  heart,"  says  Carlyle,  "and  know 
for  certain  concerning  his  vital  rela- 
tions to  this  mysterious  Universe,  and 
his  duty  and  destiny  there,  that  is  in 
all  cases  the  primary  thing  for  him,  and 
creatively  determines  all  the  rest.  .  .  . 
And,  I  say,  if  you  tell  me  what  that  is, 
you  tell  me  to  a  very  great  extent  what 
the  man  is,  what  the  kind  of  things  he 
will  do  is." 

The  man  who  sets  his  heart  upon  the 
things  of  the  world,  who  does  not  hesi- 
tate to  cheat  his  brother,  who  will  lie 
for  gain,  who  will  steal  from  his  neigh- 
bor, or,  who,  by  slander,  will  rob  an- 
other of  his  reputation,  lives  on  a  low, 
animal  plane  of  existence,  and  either 
stifles  his  spirituality  or  permits  it  to 
lie  dormant.  To  be  thus  carnally 
minded  is  to  be  spiritually  dead. 

On  the  other  hand,  keeping  in  mind 
our  daily  vocations,  the  man  who  tills 
the  soil,  garners  his  fruit,  increases  his 
flocks  and  his  herds,  having  in  mind 
making  better  the  world  in  which  he 
lives,  desiring  to  contribute  to  the  hap- 
piness of  his  family  and  his  fellows,  and 
who  does  all  things  for  the  glory  of 
God,  will,  to  the  extent  that  he  denies 
himself  for  these  ideals,  develop  his 
spirituality.  Indeed,  only  to  the  extent 
that  he  does  this  will  he  rise  above  the 
plane  of  the  animal  world. 

Years  ago  we  read  in  school  the  fol- 
lowing from  Rudolph  Eucken: 

"I  cannot,"  he  says,  "conceive  of  the 
development  of  a  powerful  personality, 
a  deep-rooted,  profound  mind,  of  a 
character  rising  above  this  world,  with- 
out his  having  experienced  a  divinity 
in  life  above,  beyond  the  world  of  sensi- 
ble reality,  and  as  surely  as  we  create 
in  ourselves  a  life  in  contrast  to  pure 
nature,  growing  by  degrees  and  extend- 
ing to  the  heights  of  the  true,  the  good, 
and  the  beautiful,  we  may  have  the 
same  assurance  of  that  religion  called 
universal." 

Paul,  you  will  remember,  expresses  it 
more  specifically: 

"But  if  ye  bite  and  devour  one  an- 
other, take  heed  that  ye  be  not  con- 
sumed one  of  another. 

"This  I  say  then,  Walk  in  the  Spirit, 


and  ye  shall  not  fulfil  the  lust  of  the 
flesh. 

"For  the  flesh  lusteth  against  the 
Spirit,  and  the  Spirit  against  the  flesh: 
and  these  are  contrary  the  one  to  the 
other:  so  that  ye  cannot  do  the  things 
that  ye  would. 

"But  if  ye  be  led  of  the  Spirit,  ye  are 
not  under  the  law. 

"Now  the  works  of  the  flesh,"  he  says, 
"are  manifest,  which  are  these;  Adul- 
tery. .  .  ." 

The  young  man  who  leaves  his  home 
at  night  having  in  mind  anything  that 
would  injure  either  the  character  or  the 
life  or  the  reputation  of  a  young  woman 
with  whose  company  he  is  entrusted, 
is  carnal-minded  instead  of  spiritual- 
minded. 

".  .  .  fornication,  uncleanness,  .  .  . 

".  .  .  hatred,  variance,  emulations  .  .  . 
strife,  seditions.  .  .  . 

"Envyings  . .  .  drunkenness,  revellings, 
and  such  like:  of  the  which  I  tell  you 
before,  as  I  have  also  told  you  in  time 
past,  that  they  which  do  such  things 
shall  not  inherit  the  kingdom  of  God. 

"But  the  fruit  of  the  Spirit  is  love, 
joy,  peace,  longsuffering,  gentleness, 
goodness,  faith, 

"Meekness,  temperance:  against  such 
there  is  no  law. 

"And  they  that  are  Christ's  have 
crucified  the  flesh  with  the  affections 
and  lusts. 

"If  we  live  in  the  Spirit,  let  us  also 
walk  in  the  Spirit,"  daily,  hourly.  (Gal. 
5:15-25.) 

It  can  be  done,  and  it  should  be  done 
in  every  home  of  the  Latter-day  Saint 
Church. 

With  all  our  boasted  civilization  there 
never  was  a  time  when  spiritual  awak- 
ening and  spiritual  ideals  were  more 
needed.  Civilization  has  grown  too 
complex  for  the  human  mind  to  visual- 
ize or  to  control.  Unless  mankind  come 
to  a  speedy  realization  that  the  higher 
and  not  the  baser  qualities  of  man  must 
be  developed,  the  present  status  of 
civilization  is  in  jeopardy.  Life  on  the 
animal  plane  has  as  its  ideal  the  sur- 
vival of  the  fittest,  crush  or  be  crushed, 
mangle  or  be  mangled,  kill  or  be  killed. 
For  man,  with  his  intelligence,  this  is 
a  sure  road  to  anguish  and  death. 

About  fifty  years  ago,  Lord  Balfour, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


8 

Friday,  April  4 

Prime  Minister  of  Great  Britain,  de- 
livered a  lecture  in  the  McEwen  Hall  of 
the  University  of  Edinburgh  on  the  sub- 
ject, "The  Moral  Values  Which  Unite 
the  Nations."  In  an  interesting  and 
convincing  manner,  the  gentleman  pre- 
sented four  fundamental  ties  that  unite 
the  different  nations  of  the  world:  (1) 
"Common  Knowledge";  (2)  "Common 
Commercial  Interests";  (3)  "The  Inter- 
course of  Diplomatic  Relationship"; 
(4)  "The  Bonds  of  Human  Friendship." 
The  audience  greeted  his  masterful  ad- 
dress with  a  great  outburst  of  applause. 

As  the  presiding  officer  arose  to  ex- 
press his  appreciation  and  that  of  the 
audience,  a  Japanese  student  who  was 
doing  graduate  work  at  the  University 
stood  up,  and  leaning  over  the  balcony, 
said,  "But,  Mr.  Balfour,  what  about 
Jesus  Christ?" 

Mr.  Robin  E.  Spear,  to  whom  Pro- 
fessor Lang  related  this  incident,  writes: 

"One  could  have  heard  a  pin  drop 
in  the  hall.  Everyone  felt  at  once  the 
justice  of  the  rebuke.  The  leading 
statesman  of  the  greatest  Christian  em- 
pire in  the  world  had  been  dealing  with 
the  different  ties  that  are  to  unite  man- 
kind, and  had  omitted  the  one  funda- 
mental and  essential  bond.  And  every- 
one felt,  too,  the  dramatic  element  in 
the  situation — that  the  reminder  of  his 
forgetfulness  had  come  from  a  Japanese 
student  from  a  far-away  non-Christian 
land." 

Life,  brethren  and  sisters,  is  an  ever- 
flowing  river  on  which  one  embarks 
at  birth  and  sails,  or  is  rowed,  for  fifty, 
seventy,  eighty,  or  more  years.  Every 
year  that  passes  goes  into  an  eternity, 
never  to  return;  yet  each  carries  with 
it  into  the  past  no  personal  weakness, 
no  bodily  ailment,  no  sorrow,  no  laugh- 
ter, no  thought,  no  noble  aspirations, 
no  hope,  no  ambition:  all  these  with 
every  trait  of  character,  every  inclina- 
tion, every  tendency  remain  with  each 
individual.  In  other  words,  our  lives  are 
made  up  of  daily  thoughts  and  actions. 
We  may  resolve  to  let  all  our  sorrows 
and  weaknesses  go  with  the  passing 
time,  but  we  know  that  every  thought, 
every  inclination  has  left  its  indelible 
impression  upon  our  souls,  and  we  shall 
have  to  deal  with  it  today. 

So  live,  then,  that  each  day  will  find 


First  Day 

you  conscious  of  having  wilfully  made 
no  person  unhappy.  No  one  who  has 
lived  a  well-spent  day  will  have  a 
sleepless  night  because  of  a  stricken 
conscience.  Daniel  Webster  once  said 
that  the  greatest  thought  that  had  ever 
occupied  his  mind  was  the  realization 
of  the  fact  that,  and  I  quote,  "there  is 
no  evil  we  cannot  face  or  flee  from  but 
the  consequences  of  duty  disregarded. 
A  sense  of  obligation  pursues  us  ever. 
It  is  omnipresent  like  the  Deity.  If 
we  take  to  ourselves  the  wings  of  the 
morning  and  dwell  in  the  uttermost 
parts  of  the  sea,  duty  performed,  or 
duty  violated  is  still  with  us,  for  our 
happiness  or  our  misery,  if  we  say 
that  night  shall  cover  us,  in  the  dark- 
ness as  in  the  light,  our  obligations 
are  yet  with  us.  We  cannot  escape 
their  power  nor  fly  from  their  presence. 
They  are  with  us  in  this  life,  will  be 
with  us  at  its  close,  and  in  that  scene  of 
inconceivable  solemnity  which  lies  yet 
farther  on,  we  shall  find  ourselves  fol- 
lowed by  the  consciousness  of  duty — to 
pain  us  forever  if  it  has  been  violated, 
and  to  console  us  so  far  as  God  has 
given  us  grace  to  perform  it.  Weighed 
against  conscience  the  world  itself  is 
but  a  bubble.  For  God  himself  is  in 
conscience  lending  it  authority." 

Mankind  needs  a  spiritual  awakening, 
brethren  and  sisters;  the  carnal  minded 
are  causing  heartaches  and  threatening 
the  extinction  of  the  race. 

But  the  sun  of  hope  is  rising.  Think- 
ing men  and  women  are  recognizing 
the  need  of  man's  looking  up  towards 
the  heavens  instead  of  groveling  in  re- 
sponse to  the  animal  instinct.  One 
man,  commenting  upon  this,  said  that 
if  all  the  destroyers  of  civilization  could 
be  eliminated,  and  the  traits  of  the 
rest  of  us  that  come  from  destructive 
strains  could  be  eliminated,  an  approach 
to  the  millennium  some  hundred  years 
hence  is  by  no  means  inconceivable. 

"Can  you  imagine,"  he  continues, 
"what  this  country  would  be  like  if 
ten  or  twenty  billion  dollars  a  year" 
(that  is  the  amount  expended  to  take 
care  of  our  criminals)  "were  added  to 
our  national  income?  That  would 
mean  five  hundred  dollars,  or  one  thou- 
sand dollars  per  family;  but  the  average 
today,  even  if  we  include  Henry  Ford, 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


is  only  twenty-five  hundred,  or  three 
thousand  dollars.  What  would  happen 
if  that  sum  were  increased  by  twenty 
or  even  forty  percent  all  around?  Even 
if  you  cannot  imagine  the  result,  do 
you  realize  what  it  would  be  like  to 
feel  no  need  of  locking  doors  and  win- 
dows, no  fear  of  leaving  your  car  un- 
protected, no  danger  that  your  wife  or 
daughter  would  be  insulted,  or  you 
yourself  sandbagged  if  you  went  out  at 
night,  no  fear  that  you  would  have  any 
uncollectable  bills  except  through  acci- 
dent or  unpreventable  misfortune,  no 
fear  that  in  political  election  there 
would  be  any  bribery,  or  in  politics  any 
graft,  and  no  fear  that  anyone  anywhere 
was  trying  to  'do  you' — can  you  imagine 
all  that?  It  would  almost  be  heaven 
on  earth.  Of  course,  it  cannot  happen" 
(someday  it  will  have  to  happen)  ".  .  . 
and  yet  if  all  the  destroyers  of  civiliza- 
tion could  be  eliminated,  and  if  the 
traits  of  the  rest  of  us  that  come  from 
destructive  strains  could  be  eliminated, 
an  approach  to  such  a  state  some  hun- 
dred years  hence  is  by  no  means  in- 
conceivable." 

Spiritual  awakening  in  the  hearts  of 
millions  of  men  and  women  would  bring 
about  a  changed  world.  I  am  hope- 
ful, my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the 
dawning  of  that  day  is  not  far  distant. 
I  am  conscious,  as  I  hope  all  of  you 
are,  that  the  responsibility  to  try  to 
bring  about  such  a  day  rests  upon  the 
priesthood  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 


and  upon  the  membership  and  upon 
husbands  and  wives  and  upon  children 
in  Mormon  homes. 

May  that  message  be  felt  throughout 
the  conference  that  we  are  now  holding. 
We  cannot  just  come  and  meet  and  talk 
about  good  things  and  then  go  home 
and  express  our  feelings,  the  feelings  of 
our  carnal  nature. 

My  faith  in  the  ultimate  triumph  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  assures  me 
that  a  spiritual  awakening  must  come. 
It  will  come  through  the  acceptance  of 
Jesus  Christ  and  obedience  to  his  gospel 
and  in  no  other  way  completely.  I  be- 
lieve there  never  was  a  time  in  the  his- 
tory of  the  world  when  there  was  such 
a  need  for  a  united,  determined  stand 
to  uphold  Christ  and  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  as  there  is  today. 

God  bless  you  here  assembled  that 
we  may  sense  as  never  before  the  effi- 
cacy of  the  restored  gospel  and  that  we 
hold  as  a  duty  our  application  of  spirit- 
ual traits  in  our  daily  association  with 
one  another  in  home,  in  business,  in  so- 
ciety, I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  Spencer  W. 
Kimball. 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Since  the  last  general  conference  it 
has  been  my  privilege,  in  company  with 
President  and  Sister  Henry  A.  Smith, 
to  tour  the  Central  Atlantic  States  Mis^ 
sion.  Our  travels  took  us  to  Jamestown, 
Virginia,  where  during  this  past  year 
some  $25,000,000  has  been  spent  to 
commemorate  the  350th  anniversary  of 
the  establishment  of  the  first  English 
settlement  in  America.  During  this  350 
years,  there  has  been  built  upon  this 
continent  the  greatest  nation,  having 
the  highest  standard  of  living,  ever 
known  in  the  world.  I  have  thought 
many  times,  what  a  wonderful  invest- 


ment this  $25,000,000  would  be  if  it 
could  help  us  to  understand  the  source 
of  our  blessings  and  what  we  might  do 
to  preserve  them. 

As  I  stood  at  Jamestown  thinking  of 
the  wonderful  advantages  of  living  in 
this  land  of  freedom  and  opportunity, 
my  mind  went  back  to  make  a  compari- 
son with  the  ancient  Hebrews  being  es- 
tablished in  their  promised  land.  Before 
they  crossed  the  Jordan,  God  said  to 
them, 

Thou  shalt  inhabit  cities  which  thou 
didst  not  build,  and  thou  shalt  eat  from 
vines  which  thou  hast  not  planted,  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


10 

Friday,  April  4 

thou  shalt  drink  from  wells  which  thou 
didst  not  dig.  (See  Deut.  6:10-11.) 

Every  American  is  in  that  same  situa- 
tion. Certainly  there  is  no  one  within 
the  sound  of  my  voice  who  doesn't  eat 
from  vines  which  he  did  not  plant. 

Then  the  Lord  said  something  to  the 
Hebrews  that  is  particularly  appropriate 
to  us.  He  said,  "But  when  thou  hast 
eaten  and  are  full,  beware  lest  thou  for- 
get the  Lord,  thy  God."  (See  ibid.,  6:11- 
12.) 

There  is  a  stimulating  power  derived 
from  remembering  our  blessings  and 
the  source  from  which  they  come.  Na- 
tions, like  individuals,  in  the  past  have 
fallen  when  they  have  forgotten  God. 
Certainly  the  greatest  danger  facing 
America  as  we  pass  this  important  mile- 
stone in  our  history,  is  not  inferior 
armaments,  and  it  is  not  a  lagging  in- 
dustrial production,  and  it  is  not  an 
inadequate  food  supply.  In  fact,  it  has 
been  said  that  our  national  problem  is 
surplus;  our  national  disease  is  over- 
weight; our  national  sin  is  forgetfulness. 
And  the  greatest  need  of  our  lives  is 
to  remember  the  source  of  our  blessings. 

To  help  ancient  Israel  remember,  the 
Lord  instituted  among  them  the  custom 
of  wearing  phylacteries.  That  is,  they 
were  required  to  write  out  the  most  im- 
portant passages  of  their  scripture  upon 
pieces  of  parchment  and  then  bind  them 
across  their  foreheads  and  between  their 
eyes  and  upon  their  wrists  and  around 
their  necks,  so  that  no  matter  where 
they  were,  or  what  they  were  doing, 
these  passages  would  always  be  in  their 
sight,  and  consequently  in  their 
thoughts. 

One  of  these  phylactery  passages  is 
recorded  in  the  sixth  chapter  of  Deuter- 
onomy, wherein  the  Lord  pointed  out 
their  need  by  saying: 

And  thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God 
with  all  thine  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul, 
and  with  all  thy  might. 

And  then  he  added: 

And  these  words,  which  I  command  thee 
this  day,  shall  be  in  thine  heart: 

And  thou  shalt  teach  them  diligently 
unto  thy  children,  and  shalt  talk  of  them 
when  thou  sittest  in  thine  house,  and  when 
thou  walkest  by  the  way,  and  when  thou 
liest  down,  and  when  thou  risest  up. 


First  Day 

And  thou  shalt  bind  them  for  a  sign 
upon  thine  hand,  and  they  shall  be  as 
frontlets  between  thine  eyes.  (Deut.  6:5-8.) 

I  suppose  that  a  modern  adaptation 
of  this  idea  would  be  one  that  is  familiar 
to  some  of  you  husbands.  When  your 
wife  has  wanted  you  to  remember  some 
particular  thing,  she  may  have  tied  a 
red  string  on  your  finger,  with  a  bow 
on  the  top  so  that  no  matter  where  you 
went,  or  what  you  were  doing,  you 
would  always  be  conscious  of  the  string 
on  your  finger  and  be  reminded  of  the 
particular  thing  to  be  done.  We  need 
to  make  some  of  our  own  adaptations 
of  this  idea  to  help  us  remember  God 
and  what  he  requires  at  our  hands. 
Our  eternal  lives  depend  upon  it. 

Kipling  once  wrote  what  might  be 
called  a  phylactery  prayer,  entitled,  "The 
Recessional,"  in  which  he  repeated  over 
and  over  this  important  phrase, 

"Lord  God  of  hosts,  be  with  us  yet, 
Lest  we  forget,  lest  we  forget." 

That  is,  there  are  certain  things  that 
we  must  remember  if  our  lives  are  to 
be  successful.  One  of  these  is  that  man's 
greatest  need  is  for  God.  And  for  that 
reason  God  made  our  relationship  with 
him  the  subject  of  the  first  and  the 
greatest  of  all  the  commandments.  And 
if  we  would  retain  our  national  and 
our  individual  blessings,  we  should 
make  every  day  of  the  year  a  Memorial 
Day.  To  help  us  understand,  and  to 
help  us  remember,  the  Lord  in  our  day 
has  given  us  three  great  volumes  of  new 
scripture.  One  of  these  has  particular- 
ly to  do  with  our  land  and  those  who 
have  occupied  it  before  us.  In  this 
great  American  volume  of  scripture,  we 
learn  of  the  decrees  of  God  which  have 
governed  this  land  and  which  must  al- 
ways govern  the  lives  of  those  who  oc- 
cupy it.  Without  this  important 
information,  we  are  largely  strangers  in 
our  own  land,  not  being  aware  of  the 
laws  governing  our  own  welfare. 

George  Washington  is  often  referred 
to  as  the  "Father  of  his  country."  But 
I  would  like  to  suggest  the  name  of  an- 
other man  who  might  qualify  in  a  more 
real  sense  as  the  "Father  of  America." 
After  the  flood  waters  had  receded  from 
off  the  face  of  this  land,  a  little  group 
of  people  were  led  by  the  Lord  from 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


11 


the  confusion  of  tongues  at  Babel,  back 
to  this  land  of  promise,  to  repeople  and 
to  restock  America  with  plant  and  ani- 
mal life.  The  Lord  said  to  the  brother 
of  Jared,  who,  under  his  direction,  led 
this  little  colony  to  this  new  beginning, 

...  I  will  go  before  thee  into  a  land 
which  is  choice  above  all  the  lands  of  the 
earth.  (Ether  1:42.) 

The  Lord  gave  to  the  Jaredites  many 
divine  decrees  concerning  this  land: 
that  it  should  be  preserved  forever  as 
a  sanctuary  of  freedom,  that  there 
should  be  no  kings  upon  this  land,  that 
he  would  be  the  God  of  this  land,  and 
that  whatsoever  nation  should  possess 
it,  from  that  time  henceforth  and  for- 
ever, should  serve  him,  the  only  true 
God,  or  they  should  be  swept  off  when 
the  fulness  of  his  wrath  should  come 
upon  them.  The  Lord  said  that  the 
fulness  of  his  wrath  would  come  upon 
them  when  they  were  "ripened  in  iniq- 
uity." (See  ibid.,  2:8-9.) 

I  would  just  like  to  note  in  passing, 
that  these  decrees  have  never  been  re- 
voked. 

The  Jaredites  became  a  great  nation 
and  flourished  upon  this  land  for  ap- 
proximately nineteen  hundred  years,  or 
almost  the  exact  length  of  time  that  has 
elapsed  since  the  birth  of  Jesus  to  our 
own  day.  It  was  also  more  than  five 
times  the  length  of  the  period  from  the 
beginnings  at  Jamestown  to  the  present. 
The  Jaredites  loved  this  land  and  en- 
joyed its  blessings,  as  we  have  done. 
The  Lord  promised  them  that  there 
should  be  no  greater  nation  on  the 
earth  than  the  one  which  he  should 
raise  up  for  them  upon  this  land.  The 
Jaredites  lived  contemporaneously  with 
Babylon,  Assyria,  China,  and  the  other 
great  nations  of  that  day. 

But  after  they  had  eaten  and  were 
full,  they  forgot  God,  and  they  were 
destroyed.  Other  cultures  upon  this 
land  followed  the  same  pattern  and  met 
the  same  end. 

As  I  stood  at  Jamestown,  I  thought 
how  grateful  we  ought  to  be  in  America 
for  this  new  beginning,  this  last  chance 
to  serve  the  God  of  this  land,  and  how 
carefully  we  ought  to  study  the  divine 
decrees  that  control  our  blessings  and 
destiny.  Certainly  no  one  can  be  fa- 
miliar with  the  history  of  our  great 


nation  to  date  without  being  acutely 
aware  of  the  special  providential  favor 
which  has  attended  this  land  from  the 
very  beginning.  Abraham  Lincoln 
pointed  out  this  remarkable  fact  in  his 
Thanksgiving  Day  Proclamation  of 
1863,  which  sounds  as  if  it  had  been 
dictated  by  one  of  the  great  Book  of 
Mormon  prophets  who  knew,  even  bet- 
ter than  Lincoln,  of  the  special  relation- 
ship existing  between  God  and  this 
land.   President  Lincoln  said: 

We  have  been  the  recipients  of  the  choic- 
est bounties  of  heaven.  We  have  been  pre- 
served these  many  years  in  peace  and  pros- 
perity. We  have  grown  in  numbers,  wealth 
and  power  as  no  other  nation  has  ever 
grown. 

Then  he  indicated  our  perennial  prob- 
lem, and  he  said, 

But  we  have  forgotten  God.  We  have 
forgotten  the  gracious  hand  that  preserved 
us  in  peace  and  multiplied  and  enriched 
and  strengthened  us,  and  we  have  vainly 
imagined  in  the  deceitfulness  of  our  hearts 
that  all  of  these  blessings  were  produced  by 
some  superior  wisdom  or  virtue  of  our  own. 
Intoxicated  with  unbroken  success,  we  have 
become  too  self-sufficient  to  feel  the  neces- 
sity of  redeeming  and  preserving  grace,  too 
proud  to  pray  to  the  God  who  made  us. 
It  behooves  us  then  to  humble  ourselves 
before  the  offended  power,  to  confess  our 
national  sins  and  to  pray  for  clemency  and 
forgiveness. 

But  in  spite  of  our  many  weaknesses, 
and  in  spite  of  the  mild  chastenings 
that  God  has  administered  from  time  to 
time  in  the  interests  of  our  reformation, 
he  has  still  blessed  us  with  the  highest 
standard  of  living  ever  known  in  the 
world.  It  is  said  that  in  the  United 
States,  with  some  6  percent  of  the 
world's  population,  we  have  approxi- 
mately 50  percent  of  the  telephones,  the 
radios,  the  automobiles,  the  television 
sets,  and  the  other  devices  of  civiliza- 
tion. 

But  the  crowning  event  in  the  bless- 
ing of  America  came  in  the  early  spring 
of  1820,  when  God  the  Father  and  his 
Son,  Jesus  Christ,  reappeared  upon  this 
continent  in  what  is  probably  the  great- 
est divine  manifestation  ever  given  in 
the  world.  They  came  to  re-establish 
among  men  a  belief  in  the  God  of 
Genesis,  a  belief  in  the  God  of  this 
land.  They  came  to  establish  the  gospel 


12 

Friday,  April  4 

on  this  earth  for  the  last  time,  and  to 
let  us  know  that  these  timeless  decrees 
of  God  still  govern  in  this  land  which 
we  presently  possess. 

What  an  important  beginning.  What 
an  inspiring  way  to  open  this  age  of 
wonders  and  enlightenment  and  oppor- 
tunity and  abundance  and  freedom, 
which  we  know  as  the  Dispensation  of 
the  Fulness  of  Times!  Most  of  the  con- 
flicting religions  of  the  present  day  have 
been  imported  into  America.  They  have 
been  brought  from  Italy  and  England 
and  Switzerland  and  Scandinavia  and 
Scotland,  Arabia  and  China  and  Japan 
and  India.  But  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  born  in 
this  chosen  land  of  America  to  open  the 
greatest  and  the  last  of  all  the  dispen- 
sations. 

But  America  was  a  divinely  favored 
land  before  Columbus  and  before 
Jamestown  and  before  the  Mormon 
pioneers.  We  know,  by  means  of  di- 
vine revelation,  that  the  Garden  of 
Eden  was  established  in  this  land.  This 
was  the  home  of  many  of  the  greatest 
prophets  who  have  ever  lived.  But  the 
greatness  of  America  is  not  all  in  the 
past.  This  will  also  be  the  place  of  the 
new  Jerusalem.  The  tenth  Article  of 
Faith  says  that  ".  .  .  Zion  will  be  built 
upon  this  [the  American]  continent; 
that  Christ  will  reign  personally  upon 
the  earth;  .  .  ."  with  one  of  his  capitals 
in  this  western  land,  ".  .  .  that  the  earth 
will  be  renewed  and  receive  its  para- 
disiacal glory."  This  earth  will  even- 
tually become  the  celestial  kingdom  of 
God.  (See  D  &  C  88:25-26.) 

Then  even  those  who  have  lived  here 
but  who  have  forgotten  God,  must  be 
cast  out;  they  must  live  some  other 
place.  But  those  who  are  entitled  to 
live  upon  this  earth  when  it  is  celes- 
tialized  will  then  not  only  enjoy  the 
highest  standard  of  living,  but  also  the 
highest  standard  of  happiness  ever 
known  by  man.  But  all  of  this  is  based 
upon  our  ability  to  remember  and  serve 
God. 

On  this  important  anniversary,  we 
need  to  remember  that  we  are  not  the 
first  but  the  fifth  culture  that  has  lived 
upon  this  land,  each  of  the  other  four 
having  been  destroyed  because  they  have 
forgotten  God.  We  must  forever  keep 
in  mind  that  our  national  as  well  as 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

our  individual  welfare  has  been  put 
in  our  hands,  and  the  law  governing  our 
welfare  has  been  clearly  stated  to  us. 

We  not  only  have  the  greatest  bless- 
ings, but  we  also  have  the  greatest 
responsibilities.  We  have  the  responsi- 
bility to  carry  the  message  of  the  gospel 
to  "every  nation  and  kindred  and  tongue 
and  people."  We  have  the  responsibility 
of  putting  the  gospel  in  force  in  our 
own  lives.  We  must  exercise  a  kind  of 
leadership  corresponding  to  our  oppor- 
tunities and  our  blessings.  Certainly  we 
must  not  be  content  to  dwell  in  the 
house  built  by  the  Pilgrims  and  the 
Pioneers.  We  must  make  history  our- 
selves. The  highest  standard  of  living 
is  important,  but  it  is  far  more  impor- 
tant to  have  the  highest  standard  of 
honor  and  the  highest  standard  of  obedi- 
ence and  the  highest  standard  of  "re- 
membering." Then  our  country  will  be 
safe  and  our  freedom  and  our  happiness 
will  be  secure.  Then  we  may  earn  the 
right  to  live  forever  in  this  favored  land 
upon  this  celestialized  earth. 

I  close  with  the  inspiring  poem  of 
Henry  Carey, 

"America" 

My  country!  'tis  of  thee, 

Sweet  land  of  liberty, 

Of  thee  I  sing; 

Land  where  my  fathers  died, 

Land  of  the  pilgrim's  pride, 

From  every  mountain  side, 

Let  freedom  ring. 

My  native  country,  thee, 
Land  of  the  noble,  free, 
Thy  name  I  love; 
I  love  thy  rocks  and  rills, 
Thy  woods  and  templed  hills; 
My  heart  with  rapture  thrills 
Like  that  above. 

Let  music  swell  the  breeze, 
And  ring  from  all  the  trees, 
Sweet  freedom's  song; 
Let  mortal  tongues  awake, 
Let  all  that  breathe  partake, 
Let  rocks  their  silence  break, 
The  sound  prolong. 

Our  father's  God!  to  thee, 

Author  of  liberty, 

To  thee  we  sing; 

Long  may  our  land  be  bright 

With  freedom's  holy  light, 

Protect  us  by  thy  might, 

Great  God,  our  king!  ; 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


13 


That  we  may  always  remember  the 
source  of  our  blessings,  and  that  we  may 
prove  ourselves  worthy  of  him  who  is 
their  Author,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  congregation  will  now  join  with 
the  Combined  Choruses  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University  in  singing,  "We 
Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  a  Phophet." 


The  congregation  and  the  Combined 
Choruses  united  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  a  Proph- 
et." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Spen- 
cer W.  Kimball  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
John  Longden. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brothers  and  sisters,  first 
I  should  like  to  acknowledge  the  good- 
ness of  the  Lord  to  me. 

As  I  heard  the  President  speak  of  the 
converts  of  the  past  year,  I  tried  to 
visualize  four  huge  tabernacles,  or  one 
twice  as  wide  and  long,  as  this  one,  full 
of  all  new  converts  from  last  year  only. 

I  am  conscious  this  morning  of  three 
empty  places  among  our  Brethren.  I 
am  thinking  today  of  Brother  Oscar 
Kirkham,  a  great  man  who  has  influ- 
enced youth  tremendously  and  has 
given  a  long  life  of  service.  I  am  re- 
membering Elder  Thomas  Evans  McKay 
as  one  like  Nathanael,  a  man  without 
guile.  And  my  mind  returns  to  Elder 
Adam  S.  Bennion,  our  very  close  col- 
league, and  I  think  of  the  scripture 
which  says,  "And  the  child  grew,  and 
waxed  strong  in  spirit,  filled  with  wis- 
dom: and  the  grace  of  God  was  upon 
him."  (Luke  2:40.)  And  then  when 
they  went  down  to  Nazareth,  it  was 
said  of  the  Lord,  again,  "And  Jesus  in- 
creased in  wisdom  and  stature,  and  in 
favour  with  God."  (Ibid.,  2:52.)  An 
already  great  man,  Elder  Bennion  in- 
creased in  wisdom,  greatness,  spiritual- 
ity. We  express  to  the  families  of  these 
three  men  our  affection  and  our  sym- 
pathy. 

In  the  moments  allotted  to  me  may 
I  address  my  remarks  to  any  here  and 
in  the  radio  and  television  audience 
who  have  not  experienced  the  glow,  the 
warmth,  the  peace  which  come  to  those 
who  see  the  eternal  path  clearly  and 
know  positively  of  its  correctness,  and 
who  are  courageously  toiling  toward 
those  eternal  goals. 


In  experiences  of  mortality  we  some- 
times suffer  from  optical  illusions;  we 
hear  noises  that  do  not  exist;  we  expe- 
rience nocturnal  adventures  quite  un- 
real, and  distorted;  but  in  the  spiritual 
realm  one  can  have  positive  certainty, 
for  the  Lord  has  repeated  numerous 
times  the  definite  promise  here  ex- 
pressed: 

If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall 
know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God, 
or  whether  I  speak  of  myself.  (John  7:17. 
Italics  added.) 

In  courts  of  law  the  witness  is  asked 
to  take  an  oath  that  the  information 
he  is  about  to  give  is  "the  truth,  the 
whole  truth,  and  nothing  but  the  truth," 
and  the  statements  made  are  called  his 
"testimony."  In  spiritual  matters,  we 
may  likewise  have  a  testimony.  This 
sureness  of  the  spiritual  is  unique  and 
pertains  to  the  realness  of  a  personal 
God;  the  continued  active  life  of  the 
Christ,  separate  from  but  like  his 
Father;  the  divinity  of  the  restoration 
of  the  organization  and  doctrines  of 
God's  Church  on  the  earth  and  the 
power  of  the  divine,  authoritative 
priesthood  given  to  men,  through  revela- 
tions from  God.  These  can  be  known 
as  surely  as  that  the  sun  shines,  by  every 
responsible  person,  and  to  fail  to  attain 
this  knowledge  is  to  admit  that  one  has 
not  paid  the  price.  Like  academic  de- 
grees it  is  obtained  by  intense  strivings. 
That  soul  who  is  clean  through  re- 
pentance and  the  ordinances  receives  it 
if  he  desires  and  reaches  for  it,  investi- 
gates conscientiously,  studies,  and  prays 
faithfully. 


14 

Friday,  April  4 

A  sure  knowledge  of  the  spiritual  is 
an  open  door  to  rewards  attainable  and 
joys  unspeakable.  To  ignore  the  testi- 
mony is  to  grope  in  caves  of  impene- 
trable darkness;  to  creep  along  in  fog 
over  hazardous  highways.  That  person 
is  to  be  pitied  who  may  still  be  walking 
in  darkness  at  noonday,  who  is  tripping 
over  obstacles  which  can  be  removed 
and  who  dwells  in  the  dim  flickering 
candlelight  of  insecurity  and  skepticism. 
The  testimony  is  the  electric  light  il- 
luminating the  cavern;  the  wind  and 
sun  dissipating  the  fog;  the  power 
equipment  removing  boulders  from  the 
road.  It  is  the  mansion  on  the  hill  re- 
placing the  shack  in  the  marshes;  the 
harvester  shelving  the  sickle  and  cradle; 
the  tractor,  train,  automobile,  and  plane 
displacing  the  ox  team.  It  is  the  rich 
nourishing  kernels  of  corn  instead  of 
the  husks  in  the  trough.  It  is  much 
more  than  all  else,  for — 

.  .  .  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might 
know  thee  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus 
Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent.  {Ibid.,  17:3.) 

Eternal  life  is  the  greatest  gift.  To 
obtain  it  is  not  easy.  The  price  is  high. 

Nicodemus  of  old  inquired  the  price. 
The  answer  perplexed  him.  Let  us  in- 
terview that  good  man  who  came  so 
near  and  yet  evidently  missed  the  mark. 

Your  name  is  Nicodemus?  You  are 
a  member  of  the  powerful  sect  of  the 
Pharisees?  You  are  a  member  of  the 
Jewish  Sanhedrin?  You  knew  the  per- 
son from  Nazareth  called  Jesus  Christ? 
You  heard  his  sermons  and  witnessed 
his  miracles?  You  looked  into  his  eyes 
and  heard  his  voice? 

You  are  a  good  man,  Nicodemus,  hon- 
orable and  just,  for  you  will  yet  defend 
our  Lord  before  your  colleagues,  asking 
he  be  not  condemned  without  a  hear- 
ing. You  are  also  generous,  for  you  will 
yet  bring  one  hundred  weight  of  aloes 
and  myrrh  to  his  burial.  You  have  at 
least  some  faith,  but  have  you  courage 
enough  to  face  criticism?  You  are 
identified  as  one  who  came  under  cover 
of  darkness.  In  your  senatorial  seat 
you  and  your  colleagues  have  impres- 
sive powers,  making  laws  and  control- 
ling destinies. 

It  is  night  now.  You  have  not  been 
seen.    You  are  addressing  our  Lord: 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

Rabbi,  we  know  that  thou  art  a  teacher 
come  from  God:  for  no  man  can  do  these 
miracles  that  thou  doest,  except  God  be 
with  him.  (Ibid.,  3:2.) 

His  ready  answer  wrinkles  your  brow. 
This  is  the  simple  total  answer  to  the 
weightiest  of  all  questions. 

Verily,  verily  I  say  unto  thee,  Except  a 
man  be  born  again  he  cannot  see  the  king- 
dom of  God.  (Ibid.,  3:3.) 

You  are  well  versed  in  the  law,  Nico- 
demus, but  what  of  the  gospel?  To  gain 
eternal  life  there  must  be  a  rebirth,  a 
transformation,  and  an  unburdening 
self  of  pride,  weaknesses,  and  prejudice. 
You  must  begin  as  a  little  child,  clean, 
teachable.  You  seem  not  to  understand. 

"How  can  a  man  be  born  when  he  is 
old?"  (Ibid.,  3:4.)  Your  question  is 
strange  for  a  learned  man.  Must  you 
reduce  all  to  human  logic?  Must  every- 
thing be  rational  to  your  finite,  mate- 
rialistic mind? 

He  says: 

Come  unto  me,  and  I  will  give  you  rest. 

Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  ...  ye 
shall  find  rest  unto  your  souls.  (Matt.  1 1 :28- 
29.) 

He  expects  you  to  divest  yourself  of 
every  foreign  thought,  act,  and  inclina- 
tion, and  accept  him  and  live  his  plan. 
And  the  "rest,"  which  is  exaltation,  will 
be  your  glory. 

But  you  still  do  not  seem  to  under- 
stand, Mr.  Pharisee.  Is  it  so  complex? 
Are  you  afraid  of  what  your  brother 
Pharisees  may  think  of  you,  fearful  of 
losing  your  exalted  place  in  the  San- 
hedrin? Or,  do  you  not  see?  Certainly 
a  little  glimpse  has  been  given  you.  You 
acknowledged  the  miracle  worker  must 
be  sent  from  God,  but  the  curtain  so 
slightly  opened  will  close  again  if  you 
do  not  act  upon  the  new  knowledge  be- 
ing offered  you. 

You  are  highly  educated,  my  good 
man.  Many  sit  at  your  feet  to  learn. 
Does  your  superior  training  blind  you? 
Must  a  prophet  or  a  God  be  measured 
in  the  test  tubes  of  a  physical  laboratory? 
Can  you  not  accept  anything  you  can- 
not prove  by  the  rules  of  the  schools  in 
which  you  studied? 

You  are  not  accepting  it.    The  Lord 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


15 


is  postulating  again  the  necessary  re- 
quirements: 

Except  a  man  be  born  again,  he  cannot 
see  the  kingdom  of  God.  (John  3:3;  italics 
added.) 

That  total  answer  came  in  one  sen- 
tence of  thirteen  small  words.  You  are 
wondering,  weighing,  Mr.  Rationalizer. 
You  seem  impressed,  but  you  are  bound. 
How  much  you  do  not  realizel  Did  you 
expect  it  in  eloquent,  impressive  words? 
Is  it  frustrating  in  its  simplicity?  You 
are  rationalizing,  Sir.  You  cannot  weigh 
this  on  the  scales  of  your  secular 
knowledge  and  training.  They  are  too 
crude,  mundane.  You  need  finer 
mechanism. 

Your  question  about  returning  to  the 
mother's  womb  for  rebirth — was  it  in- 
tended as  a  question,  Mr.  Intellectual, 
or  to  prove  your  superior  logic;  or  to 
point  out  that  Christ  was  irrational;  or 
was  it  mere  perplexity?  He  knows  your 
professional  background  and  culture 
and  the  analytical  training  you  have 
had.  He  is  so  kind  and  patient.  He 
will  explain  further  in  eighty-nine 
words,  sixty-five  of  which  are  one-syl- 
lable ones: 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  Except  a 
man  be  born  of  water  and  of  the  Spirit, 
he  cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God. 

That  which  is  born  of  the  flesh  is  flesh; 
and  that  which  is  born  of  the  Spirit  is 
spirit. 

Marvel  not  that  I  said  unto  thee,  Ye 
must  be  born  again. 

The  wind  bloweth  where  it  listeth,  and 
thou  hearest  the  sound  thereof,  but  canst 
not  tell  whence  it  cometh,  and  whither  it 
goeth;  so  is  every  one  that  is  born  of  the 
Spirit.  (Ibid.,  3:5-8.) 

How  beautiful — how  forceful — how 
positive!  Is  there  excuse  to  question,  to 
hesitate,  to  reject?  O  Nicodemus,  this 
moment  of  crisis  cannot  last  long.  You 
are  on  a  perilous  summit.  Your  deci- 
sion can  mean  the  difference  between 
exaltation  and  a  deprivation  greater  than 
you  know.  You  had  a  spark  of  desire. 
Why  did  you  extinguish  it? 

What  made  you  refer  to  our  Master 
as  "a  teacher  come  from  God"?  Do  you 
not  believe  in  prophets?  Have  you  not 
all  your  life  waited  for  a  Redeemer? 
After  all  his  sermons,  testimonies,  and 


miracles,  is  he  still  only  an  inspired 
teacher  to  you?  Could  he  not  be  the 
long-awaited  Christ?  Have  you  tried 
to  believe  and  accept,  or  are  you  bound 
down  with  fetters  of  tradition,  chains 
of  materialism,  and  handcuffs  of  losable 
prestige?  O  timid  one,  awaken,  exert 
yourself,  draw  back  the  curtains  your 
training  and  background  have  hung 
over  the  windows  of  your  soul!  You 
are  speaking  to  no  ordinary  man,  no 
common  philosopher,  no  mere  prophet. 
You  are  in  the  presence  of  the  real  Mes- 
siah, the  great  physician,  the  master 
psychiatrist,  the  very  Christ.  You  are 
questioning  the  maker  of  heaven  and 
earth,  the  Son  of  God. 

Open  the  curtains,  my  skeptic  brother. 
Rid  yourself  of  your  intellectual  con- 
servatism. This  is  a  crucial  moment. 
You  are  being  offered  a  gift  priceless 
beyond  your  imagination.  Will  you 
let  it  pass?  Talking  with  Christ,  you 
should  be  awed  to  a  tremble,  quaking 
in  shoeless  feet  on  such  holy  ground, 
and  on  your  knees  in  reverent  humility. 
This  is  your  Lord,  your  Savior,  your 
Redeemer.  Can't  you  understand,  O 
ye  of  little  faith?  Can't  you  feel  his 
love  and  kindness  and  see  the  sadness 
and  disappointment  in  those  penetrating 
eyes  as  he  notes  your  withdrawal?  He 
is  saying: 

Set  aside  your  pride  and  arrogance.  Cast 
from  you  all  worldly  burdens.  Repent  of 
your  transgressions,  purify  your  hands,  and 
mind,  and  heart,  believe  that  I  am  the 
bread  of  life,  the  waters  from  the  pure 
spring.  Accept  me  and  my  gospel;  go  down 
into  the  waters  in  proper  baptism. 

Can  you  envision  the  cleanliness  as 
one  emerges  from  the  watery  grave, 
washed,  and  the  freedom  and  joy  and 
glory  of  it?  But  after  all  this  you  still 
ask,  "How  can  these  things  be?"  Your 
question  astonishes  us  and  brings  from 
the  Master  this  chastisement: 

Art  thou  a  master  of  Israel,  and  knowest 
not  these  things?  (John  3:10.) 

O  my  brother,  opportunity's  doors  are 
closing.  Why  can't  you  understand? 
Too  many  materialistic  obstacles?  He 
knows  your  influence,  wealth,  erudition, 
your  exalted  place  in  community,  in 
government,  in  the  powerful  church 
group. 


16 

Friday,  April  4 

He  offers  you  not  a  dependent,  de- 
cadent kingdom  like  your  doomed  and 
dying  Judah.  He  invites  you  to  rule, 
not  as  emperor  of  a  temporary  world 
power  like  Rome,  which  is  destined  to 
crumble  as  clay,  but  is  offering  you 
citizenship  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven, 
eventually  to  rise  in  stature  and  author- 
ity until  you  are  a  king  in  your  own 
right  with  a  dominion  greater  than  the 
combined  empires  of  all  the  earth. 

Your  decision  seems  weighted  with 
earthly  treasures  and  the  plaudits  of 
men  and  the  conveniences  of  affluence. 
My  heart  weeps  for  you,  friend  Nico- 
demus.  You  seem  such  a  good  man, 
philanthropic,  kind,  generous.  You 
could  have  been  such  a  power  in  the 
Lord's  kingdom.  You  had  a  spark  of 
desire.  It  could  have  been  kindled  into 
a  living  flame.  You  might  have  been 
one  of  his  seventies,  to  proselyte  as  an 
advance  agent,  or  an  apostle,  or  even 
the  President  of  his  Church.  You 
might  have  filled  the  vacancy  when 
Matthias  was  called  or  have  been  an 
apostle  to  the  gentiles  with  Paul  and 
suffered  with  him  in  his  perils  of  the 
sea,  among  robbers,  in  prisons,  in  his 
beatings  and  stonings,  and  even  in  his 
death.  How  little  we  realize  the  doors 
of  opportunity  which  we  oft  close  with 
one  wrong  decision.  But  the  price  was 
too  high,  wasn't  it,  man  of  wealth? 

Unwilling  that  you  slip  back  in  your 
darkness  without  having  every  oppor- 
tunity, Christ  will  bear  you  his  testi- 
mony again.  He  will  not  leave  you 
guiltless.  You  cannot  escape  the  con- 
demnation of  this  testimony,  Mr.  Ra- 
tionalizer.  Hear  him: 

If  I  have  told  you  earthly  things,  and  ye 
believe  not,  how  shall  ye  believe,  if  I  tell 
you  of  heavenly  things? 

For  God  sent  not  his  Son  into  the  world 
to  condemn  the  world;  but  that  the  world 
through  him  might  be  saved. 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  We  speak 
that  we  do  know,  and  testify  that  we  have 
seen;  and  ye  receive  not  our  witness.  (Ibid., 
3:12,  17,  11;  italics  added.) 

O  Nicodemus,  why  did  you  receive 
not  his  witness?  Why  did  you  not  open 
your  heart  to  understanding?  Why  did 
you  hesitate  when  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world  so  condescended?  Had  you  hum- 
bly taken  the  first  step  of  repentance 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

and  then  proper  baptism,  then  would 
have  come  to  you  the  Holy  Ghost 
through  the  laying  on  of  hands  by  one 
of  his  apostles,  or  he  himself  might  have 
done  it. 

The  Holy  Ghost  would  have  abided 
with  you  so  long  as  you  merited  and 
would  have  whispered  to  you  so  that 
you,  too,  could  have  exclaimed  with 
your  Redeemer, 

We  speak  that  [which]  we  do  know,  and 
testify  that  [which]  we  have  seen.  (Ibid., 
3:11;  italics  added.) 

And  John  wrote: 

.  .  .  what  he  hath  seen  and  heard,  that 
he  testifieth;  and  no  man  receiveth  his 
testimony.  (Ibid.,  3:32.) 

O  my  disbeliever  brother,  the  New 
Testament  could  have  recorded  your 
name  countless  times  instead  of  thrice. 
You  could  have  lived  forever  in  the 
minds  and  hearts  of  countless  millions. 
Because  of  your  many  abilities  you 
might  have  been  one  chosen  to  walk 
up  the  slopes  of  the  Holy  Mount  of 
Transfiguration,  to  have  unspeakable 
revelations,  to  join  others  in  martyrdom, 
and  rule  eternally  with  Christ. 

You  might  have  walked  where  Jesus  walked 

and  stayed  where  he  was  staying; 
You  might  have  eaten  bread  and  sop  and 

knelt  where  he  was  praying; 
He  might  have  washed  your  weary  feet  and 

wiped  them  with  his  dryer; 
He  might  have  laid  his  precious  hands  upon 

your  head  with  Fire. 

You  might  have  eased  his  weary  way  and 

wiped  away  his  bleeding; 
You  might  have  helped  in  his  defense  when 

he  was  sorely  needing; 
Most  disappointing  words  are  oft  expressed 

by  tongue  and  writing; 
The  saddest  words,  "It  might  have  been" 

are  always  the  most  biting. 

Now,  my  beloved,  listening  friends, 
you  too  are  generous  and  kind.  You  too 
are  prayerful  and  religious.  But  are 
you  also  like  Nicodemus,  burdened 
down  with  preconceived  and  prejudiced 
notions?  Do  you  think  that  no  good 
thing  can  come  out  of  Nazareth,  or 
Palmyra,  or  Salt  Lake  City?  Are  you 
too  biased  to  accept  new  truth?  Too 
wealthy  and  fettered  with  the  cares  of 
this  world  to  accept  the  difficult  de-  . 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 


17 


mands  of  Christ's  Church?  Are  you 
so  influential  as  to  fear  to  prejudice 
your  position  or  local  influence?  Are 
you  too  weak  to  accept  and  carry  a  load 
of  service?  Are  you  too  busy  to  study 
and  pray  and  learn  of  Christ  and  his 
program?  Are  you  too  materialistically 
trained  to  accept  the  miracles,  visions, 
prophets,  and  revelations? 

If  any  of  you,  my  listeners,  is  a  mod- 
ern Nicodemus,  I  beg  of  you  to  grasp 
the  new  world  of  truths.  Your  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  pleads  with  you: 

My  true  Church  is  restored  to  earth  with 
my  saving  doctrines. 

I  have  placed  in  authoritative  positions 
apostles  and  others  divinely  called,  and  in 
leadership  a  prophet  who  today  receives 
my  divine  revelations. 

Churches  are  many,  but  they  are  churches 
of  men,  not  mine. 

Creeds  are  numerous,  but  they  are  not 
of  my  authorship. 


Organizations  are  everywhere,  but  they 
are  not  organized  nor  accepted  by  me. 

Pretended  and  usurping  representatives  are 
legion,  but  I  called  them  not;  nor  do  I  recog- 
nize their  ordinances. 

My  second  coming  is  near  at  hand. 

...  I  stand  at  the  door,  and  knock:  if 
any  man  hear  my  voice,  and  open  the  door, 
I  will  come  in  to  him,  and  will  sup  with 
him,  and  he  with  me. 

To  him  that  overcometh  will  I  grant  to 
sit  with  me  in  my  throne.  .  .  . 

He  that  hath  an  ear  let  him  hear.  (Rev. 
3:20-22.) 

This  testimony  I  bear,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ  our  Master.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  has  just 
spoken  to  us.  He  was  preceded  by 
Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve.  We  shall  now  hear  Elder  John 
Longden,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Much  has  been  said  this  morning  re- 
garding the  Spirit,  and  I  feel  that  we 
have  felt  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  here 
this  morning.  In  order  to  feel  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  we  must  understand  God; 
he  must  be  known  to  us,  and  not  un- 
known. 

I  should  like  to  draw  from  Holy  Writ 
two  experiences,  one  in  the  life  of  the 
Apostle  Paul  on  Mars'  hill  and  the  other 
in  the  life  of  Moses. 

You  will  recall  that  when  Paul  vis- 
ited Mars'  hill  he  said: 

For  as  I  passed  by,  and  beheld  your  de- 
votions, I  found  an  altar  with  this  inscrip- 
tion, TO  THE  UNKNOWN  GOD.  Whom 
therefore  ye  ignorantly  worship,  him  declare 
I  unto  you.  (Acts  17:23.) 

The  following  experience  in  the  life 
of  Moses  is  recorded  in  Exodus  32:1-8. 
Moses  delayed  in  coming  down  from  the 
mount.  The  children  of  Israel  became 
restless  and  said  unto  Aaron,  "Make  us 
gods  which  shall  go  before  us;  this 
Moses,  we  know  not  where  he  is."  So 
Aaron  persuaded  them  to  bring  their 
jewelry,  and  he  fashioned  it  with  a 
graving  tool  and  made  a  molten  calf. 


"These  be  thy  Godsl"    And  so  Aaron 
built  an  altar  and  proclaimed,  "We 
feast,  drink  and  play." 
Then  the  Lord  said  unto  Moses, 

Go,  get  thee  down;  for  thy  people,  which 
thou  broughtest  out  of  the  land  of  Egypt, 
have  corrupted  themselves: 

They  have  turned  aside  quickly  out  of  the 
way  which  I  commanded  them:  [they  have 
made  them  a  "golden  calf."]  (Exodus  32:7- 
8.) 

From  both  these  experiences — the 
prophet  Moses,  and  the  Apostle  Paul  on 
Mars'  hill — we  learn  these  lessons: 
The  people  had  their  devotions,  built 
altars,  worshiped  an  unknown  God,  and 
worshiped  in  ignorance.  In  each  case, 
as  today,  authorized  servants  taught  the 
true  and  living  God. 

We  have  heard  this  morning  about 
the  spiritual  and  the  carnal.  May  I  say 
that  the  golden  calf  is  the  carnal  or  the 
carnal  may  be  likened  unto  the  worship 
of  the  golden  calf,  or  the  material  things 
of  life — feasting,  drinking,  and  playing, 
and  forgetting  the  spirit? 

It  is  essential  to  know  God  and  to 
worship  him  in  truth,  for  Jesus  said: 


18 

Friday,  April  4 

And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might 
know  thee  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus 
Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent.  (John  17:3.) 

We  cannot  serve  both  God  and 
mammon.  It  is  necessary  to  know  to 
whom  we  pray  and  to  pay  our  devotions 
so  that  such  may  be  done  in  spirit  and 
in  truth.  We  have  heard  the  mouth- 
piece of  our  Heavenly  Father,  President 
David  O.  McKay,  this  morning  from 
this  pulpit  draw  conclusively  to  our 
attention  the  need  to  develop  the  spirit 
within  us,  to  understand  God,  and  then 
to  have  these  things  apply  in  our  lives. 

The  Apostle  Paul  further  declared: 

Forasmuch  then  as  we  are  the  offspring  of 
God,  we  ought  not  to  think  that  the  God- 
head is  like  unto  gold,  or  silver,  or  stone, 
graven  by  art  and  man's  device.  (Acts 
17:29.) 

We  can  be  influenced  by  man's  device 
today  which  is  contrary  to  enjoying  the 
spirit;  ".  .  .  for  the  letter  killeth,  but  the 
spirit  giveth  life."  (II  Cor.  3:6.) 

Are  we  worshiping  God  in  the  full 
spirit  of  truth  or  are  there  any  golden 
calves  or  idols  in  our  lives?  Do  we  on 
occasion  worship  the  gods  of  hate,  bit- 
terness, vanity,  deceit,  profanity,  dis- 
honesty, disloyalty,  immorality,  apostasy, 
money,  gold,  silver,  uranium  (to  bring 
us  up-to-date),  power,  clothes,  passions, 
styles,  a  broken  Sabbath,  new  cars  with 
higher  speed,  in  fact,  all  material  things? 
The  New  Testament  poses  a  very  im- 
portant question: 

Is  not  the  life  more  than  meat,  and  the 
body  than  raiment?  (Matt.  6:25.) 

It  is  easy  to  follow  the  world  and 
think  in  a  material  or  physical  vein.  I 
am  reminded  of  an  experience  which 
happened  as  we  toured  the  Western 
States  Mission  four  years  ago  with 
President  and  Sister  A.  Lewis  Elggren. 
As  we  journeyed  through  the  state  of 
Nebraska,  we  saw  road  signs,  "Do  not 
fail  to  see  the  Pioneer  Village  and  the 
Progress  of  Man."  As  I  am  always  in- 
terested in  the  pioneers  and  the  progress 
of  man,  I  was  anxious  to  see  what 
progress  man  had  made.  When  we 
finally  arrived,  we  found,  a  new,  very 
modern  building.  In  it  were  the  various 
styles  of  automobiles,  beginning  with 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

one  of  the  first  ones  produced  up  to 
and  including  the  new  high-powered, 
streamlined,  most  modern  car.  And 
this  was  supposed  to  represent  the 
progress  of  man!  Yes,  it  is  easy  to  fol- 
low the  world  and  think  of  the  material, 
the  carnal,  rather  than  the  spiritual. 

Do  we  worship  these  carnal  or  mate- 
rial things  in  preference  to  the  spiritual? 
We  do  need  a  balance.  We  may  prefer 
to  worship  the  movies,  movie  stars, 
television,  radio,  and  all  forms  of  recre- 
ation. Do  these  things  take  us  from 
our  quorum  meetings,  Sunday  School, 
and  Sacrament  meetings?  If  so,  these 
are  just  some  of  the  modern  golden 
calves  which  can  come  into  our  lives, 
and  we  worship  them  in  preference  to 
developing  our  spiritual  lives. 

In  the  days  of  Moses  the  children  of 
Israel  merely  gave  material  things  to 
make  their  golden  calf.  Today  we  are 
giving  our  precious  time.  Material 
things  can  be  replaced,  but  time  can- 
not be  called  back,  and  time  is  allotted 
to  each  of  us  on  an  equal  basis — twenty- 
four  golden  hours  each  day. 

What  are  we  doing  with  them?  Are 
we  using  them  to  the  best  advantage? 

Now  is  the  time  to  do  something 
about  it!  We  all  no  doubt  have  ap- 
proached a  railroad  crossing  and  have 
been  exposed  to  the  sign  which  reads, 
"Stop!  Look!  Listen!" 

May  we  sincerely  take  this  to  heart. 
What  if  Paul  should  pass  by  today  as 
he  passed  Mars'  hill?  What  if  Jesus 
should  appear  today  (and  no  man  know- 
eth  the  hour  of  his  coming)?  Are  we 
as  ready  to  meet  him  as  we  can  be? 
I  trust  we  will  banish  from  our  lives 
any  worship  of  golden  calves,  and  wor- 
ship our  Father  in  spirit  and  in  truth. 

It  is  my  privilege  to  know  many 
young  couples  on  the  campuses  of  the 
universities  in  this  and  other  areas  who 
are  getting  their  education  and  at  the 
same  time  having  their  babies,  raising 
their  families,  and  finding  time  to  serve 
the  true  and  living  God.  I  thrill  at 
their  devotion. 

Then  I  think  of  the  couple  who  went 
to  the  bank  and  placed  a  mortgage  on 
their  home  in  order  to  finance  their 
sixth  son  on  his  mission.  They  wanted 
all  their  sons  to  have  this  privilege  and 
honor.    They  had  a  witness  of  the  true 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 


19 


and  living  God  and  were  worshiping 
him  and  assisting  in  this  great  work. 

As  I  toured  the  Southwest  Indian  Mis- 
sion last  fall,  I  met  a  Lamanite  brother. 
I  learned  he  was  eighty-four  years  of 
age.  A  few  years  ago  in  this  little 
branch  where  he  lived,  there  were  but 
a  few  members  of  the  Church.  Several 
times  when  he  went  to  priesthood  meet- 
ing, he  was  the  only  one  present,  but 
he  didn't  leave;  he  would  sing  a  hymn 
and  pray.  His  witness  had  come  to 
him  through  worship  of  the  true  and 
living  God. 

Then  I  think  of  the  parents  who  are 
humbly  proud  of  their  sons  and  daugh- 
ters receiving  all  the  awards  and  achieve- 
ments possible  through  constant  Church 
activity  and  participation.  These  are 
the  homes  where  joy  and  happiness  pre- 
vail because  they  are  worshiping  the 
true  and  living  God.  This  is  the  type 
of  home  President  McKay  has  spoken 
of  this  morning. 

Now  as  to  idols,  they  were  prevalent 
in  the  days  of  Moses,  of  Paul,  and  are 
among  us  today.  Paul's  words  to  the 
Thessalonian  saints,  First  Thessalonians, 
the  first  chapter  and  the  ninth  verse — 
".  .  .  and  how  ye  turned  to  God  from 
idols  to  serve  the  living  and  true  God," 
would  indicate  that  they  had  seen  the 
error  of  their  ways  and  had  turned  to 
the  worship  of  God. 

So  if  there  need  be  repentance  in  any 
of  our  hearts  today,  let  us  exercise  the 
courage  and  fortitude  necessary  to  turn 
from  our  idols  to  worship  and  serve  the 
true  and  living  God.  If  anyone  within 
the  sound  of  my  voice  has  not  yet  been 
blessed  with  membership  in  the  true 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
will  prevail  upon  him  to  receive  the 
witness  that  the  words  spoken  from  this 
pulpit  are  divine  and  for  the  benefit  of 
our  spiritual  and  eternal  lives. 


It  is  our  individual  responsibility  to 
see  that  our  spiritual  lives  are  in  tune 
with  the  teachings  of  the  Master,  who 
said,  ".  .  .  seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of 
God,  ..."  I  testify  to  you  that  the 
material  and  physical  things  which  we 
need  to  sustain  life  will  be  granted  us. 
I  testify  further  that  God  is  our  Heaven- 
ly Father.  He  is  not  a  mystery  but  can 
be  known  if  we  desire  to  know  him. 
This  is  my  witness  and  testimony  to 
you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  addressed  us. 

The  music  of  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  conducted 
by  Elder  John  R.  Halliday.  Elder  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  has  been  at  the  organ. 
We  are  pleased  to  announce  that  the 
Choruses  will  be  with  us  this  afternoon. 
They  will  sing  now,  "Alleluia,  Christ  Is 
Risen,"  after  which  the  benediction  will 
be  offered  by  Elder  Lyman  S.  Shreeve, 
formerly  president  of  the  Uruguayan 
Mission. 


An  anthem,  "Alleluia,  Christ  is  Ris- 
en," was  sung  by  the  Brigham  Young 
University  Combined  Choruses. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Lyman  S.  Shreeve  will  offer  the 
benediction,  following  which  this  Con- 
ference will  be  adjourned  until  two 
o'clock  this  afternoon. 


Elder  Lyman  S.  Shreeve,  formerly 
president  of  the  Uruguayan  Mission, 
offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  second  session  of  the  Conference 
convened  at  2  o'clock  p.m.,  with  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay  presiding  and 
conducting  the  services. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  was  present  again  this 
afternoon  and  furnished  the  choral 
music  for  the  session. 


20 

Friday,  April  4 

The  Tabernacle  auditorium  and  gal- 
leries were  crowded  to  capacity.  Over- 
flow crowds  were  accommodated  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  on  the  Tabernacle 
Grounds  and  in  Barratt  Hall,  60  North 
Main  Street. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  are  favored  again  by  the  presence 
of  the  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses,  with  Elder  Don  L.  Earl 
conducting  and  Elder  Roy  M.  Darley  at 
the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses  rendering,  "Send  Forth  Thy 
Spirit."  The  opening  prayer  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  Lloyd  P.  Mickelsen, 
president  of  the  North  Idaho  Falls  Stake. 


The  opening  selection  was  a  number 
by  the  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses,  "Send  Forth  Thy 
Spirit." 

Elder  Lloyd  P.  Mickelsen,  president 
of  the  North  Idaho  Falls  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Presi- 
dent Lloyd  P.  Mickelsen  of  the  North 
Idaho  Falls  Stake.  The  Brigham  Young 
University  Combined  Choruses  will  now 
favor  us  with,  "O  Say,  What  Is  Truth," 
conducted  by  Elder  Don  L.  Earl,  with 
Elder  Roy  M.  Darley  at  the  organ. 


The  Combined  Choruses  sang  the 
hymn,  "O  Say,  What  Is  Truth?" 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  will  now  read  the  report 
of  the  vital  statistics  and  some  financial 
expenditures,  following  which  Elder 
Orval  W.  Adams  will  read  the  report 
of  the  Church  Auditing  Committee. 


Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  then  read  statistical  and 
financial  data: 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 
STAKE,  WARD  AND  BRANCH 
ORGANIZATIONS,  MISSIONS 
AND  TEMPLES  SINCE 
APRIL  CONFERENCE,  1957 

TEMPLE  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

New  Zealand  Temple:  E.  Albert 
Rosenvall. 

MISSION  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Central  States  Mission:  Samuel  R. 
Carpenter  to  succeed  Alvin  R.  Dyer. 

East  German  Mission:  Burtis  F.  Rob- 
bins,  to  succeed  Herold  L.  Gregory. 

French  Mission:  Milton  L.  Christen- 
sen,  to  succeed  Harold  W.  Lee. 

Gulf  States  Mission:  Lincoln  F.  Hanks, 
to  succeed  LeGrand  F.  Smith. 

Hawaii  Mission:  Harry  V.  Brooks,  to 
succeed  D.  Arthur  Haycock. 

North  Central  States  Mission:  Paul  C. 
Child,  to  succeed  G.  Eugene  England. 

Northern  Mexican  Mission:  Harvey  H. 
Taylor,  to  succeed  Joseph  T.  Bentley. 

South  Australian  Mission:  John  O. 
Simonsen,  to  succeed  Thomas  S.  Bing- 
ham. 

Uruguay  Mission:  Arthur  M.  Jensen,  to 
succeed  Frank  D.  Parry. 

West  Central  States  Mission:  Casper 
W.  Merrill,  to  succeed  George  F.  Sim- 
mons. 

West  Spanish-American  Mission:  Le- 
land  M.  Perry. 

Western  States  Mission:  David  S. 
Romney,  to  succeed  A.  Lewis  Elggren. 

NEW  MISSION  ORGANIZED 

West  Spanish-American. 

NAME  OF  MISSION  CHANGED 

North  German  Mission,  formerly  the 
East  German  Mission. 

NEW  STAKES  ORGANIZED 

Albuquerque  Stake  organized  October 
27,  1957  from  a  part  of  the  Western 
States  Mission. 

Atlanta  Stake  organized  May  5,  1957 
from  a  part  of  the  Southern  States  Mis- 
sion. 

Great  Falls  Stake  organized  June  16, 
1957  from  a  part  of  the  West  Central 
States  Mission. 


CHANGES  IN  CHU1 

Keams  Stake  organized  February  2, 
1958  by  division  of  Taylorsville  Stake. 

Kearns  North  Stake  organized  Febru- 
ary 2,  1958  by  division  of  Taylorsville 
Stake. 

Midvale  Stake  organized  June  30,  1957 
by  division  of  East  Jordan  Stake. 

Missoula  Stake  organized  June  16, 
1957  from  a  part  of  the  West  Central 
States  Mission. 

Monterey  Bay  Stake  organized  March 
2,  1958  by  division  of  San  Jose  Stake. 

Monument  Park  West  Stake  organ- 
ized September  29,  1957  by  division  of 
Monument  Park  Stake. 

Murray  South  Stake  organized  April 
28,  1957  by  division  of  Murray  Stake. 

North  Seattle  Stake  organized  May  19, 

1957  by  division  of  Seattle  Stake. 
Orem  West  Stake  organized  Novem- 
ber 3,  1957  by  division  of  Orem  Stake. 

Orlando  Stake  organized  February  23, 

1958  from  a  part  of  the  Southern  States 
Mission. 

Phoenix  North  Stake  organized  Janu- 
ary 19,  1958  by  division  of  Phoenix 
Stake. 

San  Antonio  Stake  organized  January 
19,  1958,  by  division  of  Houston  Stake 
and  the  Gulf  States  Mission. 

San  Luis  Obispo  Stake  organized  Sep- 
tember 22,  1957  by  division  of  Santa 
Barbara  Stake. 

San  Mateo  Stake  organized  September 
15,  1957  by  division  of  Palo  Alto  Stake. 

Santa  Ana  Stake  organized  December 
8,  1957  by  division  of  Orange  County 
Stake. 

Shreveport  Stake  organized  January 
26,  1958  by  division  of  Dallas  Stake  and 
the  Gulf  States  Mission. 

Virginia  Stake  organized  June  30, 
1957  from  a  part  of  the  Central  Atlantic 
States  Mission. 

STAKE  DISCONTINUED 

Moon  Lake  Stake  discontinued  No- 
vember 10,  1957.  Consolidated  with 
Duchesne  Stake. 

STAKE  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Albuquerque  Stake:  William  John 
Wilson. 

Atlanta  Stake:  William  Lemuel  Nich- 
olls. 

Cache  Stake:  Reed  Murdock  Broad- 
bent,  to  succeed  Casper  W.  Merrill. 


:H  ORGANIZATIONS  21 

Duchesne  Stake:  Elmer  Ray  Moon,  to 
succeed  A.  Hale  Holgate. 

East  Jordan  Stake:  Donald  Brady 
Milne,  to  succeed  Reed  H.  Beckstead. 

Emery  Stake:  Frank  Levi  Hall,  to 
succeed  Eldon  G.  Luke. 

Great  Falls  Stake:  Victor  Bowen. 

Gunnison  Stake:  Alvin  Robert  Barlow, 
to  succeed  Elmo  S.  Sorensen. 

Houston  Stake:  Melvin  Lee  Gillie,  to 
succeed  Jack  B.  Trunnell;  Keith  Mar 
Taylor  to  succeed  Melvin  Lee  Gillie. 

Kearns  Stake:  Merrill  A.  Nelson. 

Kearns  North  Stake:  Volma  W.  Hea- 
ton. 

Logan  Stake:  Lloyd  R.  Hunsaker,  to 
succeed  Henry  R.  Cooper. 

Lost  River  Stake:  Joseph  Burns  Beal, 
to  succeed  J.  Cleve  Hansen. 

Midvale  Stake:  Reed  H.  Beckstead. 

Missoula  Stake:  Grant  Kidd  Patten. 

Monterey  Bay  Stake:  James  Newton 
Wallace,  Jr. 

Monument  Park  West  Stake:  Frank  C. 
Berg. 

Murray  Stake:  Paul  Sherman  Rose,  to 
succeed  Oral  J.  Wilkinson. 

Murray  South  Stake:  Donald  William 
Challis. 

North  Seattle  Stake:  Wilford  Hough- 
ton Payne. 

North-Sevier  Stake:  Milo  J.  Bosshardt, 
to  succeed  Dale  H.  Peterson. 

Oquirrh  Stake:  William  B.  Martin,  to 
succeed  J.  Franklin  Peel. 

Orem  Stake:  Melvin  Dover  Hunt,  to 
succeed  Walter  R.  Holdaway. 

Orem  West  Stake:  Edward  Carlyle 
Bunker. 

Orlando  Stake:  W.  Leonard  Duggar. 
Phoenix  North  Stake:  Rudger  Grant 
Smith. 

Reno  Stake:  James  Price  Ronnow,  to 
succeed  Paul  J.  Callis. 

Salt  Lake  Stake:  Glen  P.  Umberger, 
to  succeed  Lincoln  F.  Hanks. 

San  Antonio  Stake:  Roland  C.  Bremer. 

San  Bernardino  Stake:  Wayne  A. 
Reeves,  to  succeed  Levern  M.  Hansen. 

San  Luis  Obispo  Stake:  Arthur  J. 
Godfrey. 

San  Mateo  Stake:  Melvin  Phillips 
Pickering;  William  Lundquist  Stoker,  to 
succeed  Melvin  P.  Pickering. 

Santa  Ana  Stake:  Karl  Connell  Dur- 
ham. 

Santa  Barbara  Stake:  Harry  J.  Halde- 
man,  to  succeed  Arthur  J.  Godfrey. 


22 

Friday,  April  4 

Seattle  Stake:  Layton  Byron  Jones,  to 
succeed  Wilford'  H.  Payne. 

Shreveport  Stake:  J.  Milton  Belisle. 

South  Salt  Lake  Stake:  Rolf  Christian- 
sen, to  succeed  S.  Ross  Fox. 

South  Sevier  Stake:  Rulon  Stewart 
Rasmussen,  to  succeed  William  B.  Dan- 
iels. 

Virginia  Stake:  Cashell  Donahoe,  Sr. 

Washington  Stake:  Milan  Dale  Smith, 
to  succeed  J.  Willard  Marriott. 

Yellowstone  Stake:  Max  C.  Morten- 
sen,  to  succeed  William  J.  Lewis. 

NEW  WARDS  ORGANIZED 

Albuquerque  Stake:  Albuquerque,  Al- 
buquerque Second,  Third,  Fourth,  Blue- 
water,  and  Los  Alamos  Wards,  formerly 
branches  in  the  Western  States  Mission. 

Atlanta  Stake:  Atlanta,  Atlanta  Sec- 
ond, Columbus,  Empire,  and  Macon 
Wards,  formerly  branches  in  the  South- 
ern States  Mission. 

Bakersfield  Stake:  Lancaster  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Lancaster 
Ward. 

Ben  Lomond  Stake:  North  Ogden 
Fourth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
North  Ogden  Second  Ward;  Ogden 
Fifty-Fourth  Ward,  formed  by  division 
of  Ogden  Twenty-Ninth  Ward. 

Blackfoot  Stake:  Blackfoot  Eighth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Blackfoot 
First  Ward. 

Bountiful  Stake:  Bountiful  Fifteenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Bountiful 
Second  Ward;  Bountiful  Sixteenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Bountiful 
Third  Ward. 

Brigham  Young  University  Stake:  B. 
Y.  Campus  Eighteenth  Ward,  formed 
from  various  wards. 

Chicago  Stake:  Chicago  Heights  Ward, 
formerly  Park  Forest  Branch;  South 
Shore  Ward,  formerly  South  Shore 
Branch. 

Columbia  River  Stake:  Vancouver 
Second  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Vancouver  Ward. 

Cottonwood  Stake:  Cottonwood  Fifth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Cotton- 
wood Third  Ward;  South  Cottonwood 
Third  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
South  Cottonwood  Ward. 

Denver  Stake:  Denver  Seventh  Ward, 
formerly  North  Denver  Branch;  Lara- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

mie  Second  Ward,  formed  by  division 
of  Laramie  Ward. 

Duchesne  Stake:  Altamont  Ward, 
formed  by  consolidation  of  Altonah  and 
Bon  eta  Wards;  Moon  Lake  Ward, 
formed  by  consolidation  of  Talmage 
and  Mountain  Home  Wards. 

East  Cache  Stake:  University  First 
Ward,  formerly  College  Hill  Branch; 
University  Second  Ward,  formed  from 
various  wards;  University  Third  Ward, 
formed  from  various  wards;  University 
Fourth  Ward,  formed  from  various 
wards;  University  Fifth  Ward,  formed 
by  division  of  University  First  Ward. 

East  Jordan  Stake:  Butler  Third  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Butler  and  Butler 
Second  Wards;  Butler  Fourth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Butler  and  Butler 
Second  Wards. 

East  Mesa  Stake:  Mesa  Fifteenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Mesa  Sixth 
and  Tenth  Wards;  Mesa  Seventeenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Mesa  Sev- 
enth and  Ninth  Wards. 

El  Paso  Stake:  Alamagordo  Ward,  for- 
merly Alamagordo  Branch;  El  Paso 
Fourth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of  El 
Paso  Second  Ward. 

Flagstaff  Stake:  Flagstaff  College 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Flagstaff 
Ward. 

Florida  Stake:  Jacksonville  Fifth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Jackson- 
ville First  Ward. 

Great  Falls  Stake:  Great  Falls,  Great 
Falls  Second,  Shelby,  and  Sun  River 
Valley  Wards,  formerly  branches  in  the 
West  Central  States  Mission;  Fairfield 
Ward,  formed  by  consolidation  of  Gold- 
en Ridge  and  Fairfield  Branches. 

Hay  ward  Stake:  Livermore  Ward, 
formerly  Livermore  Branch;  San  Lorenzo 
Second  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
San  Lorenzo  Ward. 

Holladay  Stake:  Holladay  Ninth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Holladay 
Fifth  Ward;  Holladay  Tenth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Holladay  Third 
Ward;  Holladay  Eleventh  Ward,  formed 
by  division  of  Holladay  First  and  Sec- 
ond Wards. 

Houston  Stake:  Bellfort  Ward,  formed 
by  division  of  Houston  First  Ward; 
Jacinto  City  Ward,  formerly  Jacinto  City 
Branch. 

Lake  Mead  Stake:  Henderson  Fourth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Hender- 


CHANGES  IN  CHU 

son  Third  Ward;  Needles  Ward,  former- 
ly Needles  Branch. 

Lake  View  Stake:  Roy  Fifth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Roy  Fourth  and 
Lake  View  Wards;  Roy  Sixth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Lake  View  Ward. 

Lorin  Farr  Stake:  Ogden  Fifty-First 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Ogden 
Forty-Fifth  and  Forty-Seventh  Wards. 

Mesa  Stake:  Mesa  Thirteenth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Mesa  Fifth  and 
Eleventh  Wards. 

Midvale  Stake:  East  Midvale  Third 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  East  Mid- 
vale Second  Ward. 

Mill  Creek  Stake:  Mill  Creek  Sixth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Valley 
Center  First  and  Second  Wards;  Mill 
Creek  Seventh  Ward,  formed  by  division 
of  Mill  Creek  Third  Ward;  Mill  Creek 
Eighth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Mill 
Creek  Second  Ward;  Mill  Creek  Ninth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Winder 
Ward. 

Missoula  Stake:  Allendale,  Charlo, 
Corvallis,  Hamilton,  Missoula,  Missoula 
Second,  Poison,  St.  Ignatius,  and  Stevens- 
ville  Wards,  formerly  branches  in  the 
West  Central  States  Mission. 

Mt.  Jordan  Stake:  Sandy  Seventh 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Sandy 
Fifth  Ward. 

Mt.  Logan  Stake:  River  Heights  Sec- 
ond Ward,  formed  by  division  of  River 
Heights  Ward. 

Mt.  Ogden  Stake:  Ogden  Fifty-Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Ogden 
Twelfth  and  Twenty-Third  Wards;  Og- 
den Fifty-Third  Ward,  formed  by  di- 
vision of  Ogden  Forty-Fourth  Ward. 

Murray  Stake:  Murray  Fourteenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Murray 
Seventh  Ward. 

Nampa  Stake:  Caldwell  Second  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Caldwell  Ward. 

North  Jordan  Stake:  Granger  Eighth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Granger 
Ward;  Hunter  Third  Ward,  formed  by 
division  of  Hunter  Second  Ward. 

North  Pocatello  Stake:  Pocatello 
Twenty-Fifth  Ward,  formed  by  division 
of  Pocatello  Seventh  Ward. 

North  Sacramento  Stake:  Citrus 
Heights  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Roseville  Ward;  Orangevale  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Fair  Oaks  Ward. 

Orange  County  Stake:  Buena  Park 
Second  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 


ZU  ORGANIZATIONS  23 

Buena  Park  Ward;  Fullerton  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Fullerton 
Ward;  La  Habra  Ward,  formed  by  di- 
vision of  Fullerton  Ward. 

Orem  Stake:  Orem  Seventeenth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Orem  Seventh 
Ward;  Orem  Eighteenth  Ward,  formed 
by  division  of  Orem  Second  Ward. 

Orlando  Stake:  Bradenton,  Ellsworth, 
Melbourne,  Orlando,  Tampa,  and  Win- 
ter Haven  Wards,  formerly  branches  in 
the  Southern  States  Mission. 

Palmyra  Stake:  Spanish  Fork  Tenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Spanish 
Fork  Third,  Fourth,  Sixth,  and  Seventh 
Wards;  Spanish  Fork  Eleventh  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Spanish  Fork 
Third,  Fourth,  Sixth,  and  Seventh 
Wards. 

Palo  Alto  Stake:  Sunnyvale  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Sunnyvale 
Ward. 

Portland  Stake:  Portland  Ninth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Portland  Second 
Ward;  Portland  Tenth  Ward,  formed 
by  division  of  Portland  Third  and  Sev- 
enth Wards. 

Redondo  Stake:  Lomita  Ward,  formed 
by  division  of  Wilmington  Ward;  Tor- 
rance Second  Ward,  formed  by  division 
of  Lawndale,  Gardena,  and  Redondo 
Second  Wards. 

Reseda  Stake:  Tarzana  Ward,  formed 
by  division  of  Encino  Ward. 

Rose  Park  Stake:  Rose  Park  Eighth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Rose  Park 
Fifth  Ward. 

St.  Joseph  Stake:  College  Ward,  for- 
merly a  branch  at  the  L.  D.  S.  Institute. 

San  Antonio  Stake:  Corpus  Christi 
Ward,  formerly  a  branch  in  the  Gulf 
States  Mission. 

San  Bernardino  Stake:  San  Bernardino 
Fourth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of  San 
Bernardino  Second  Ward. 

San  Diego  Stake:  San  Diego  Ninth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  San  Diego 
Second,  Eighth,  and  La  Mesa  Wards. 

San  Joaquin  Stake:  Stockton  Third 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Stockton 
First  and  Second  Wards. 

San  Jose  Stake:  Santa  Clara  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  San  Jose  Fourth 
Ward. 

San  Luis  Obispo  Stake:  Las  Flores 
Ward,  formerly  Las  Flores  Branch. 

Santa  Barbara  Stake:  Camarillo  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Oxnard  Ward. 


24 

Friday,  April  4 

Santa  Rosa  Stake:  Petaluma  Ward, 
formerly  Petaluma  Branch. 

Seattle  Stake:  Bellevue  Ward,  formed 
by  division  of  Kirkland  Ward;  Renton 
Second  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Renton  Ward. 

Sharon  Stake:  Orem  Nineteenth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Orem  Eleventh 
Ward;  Provo  Twentieth  Ward,  formed 
by  division  of  Orem  Twelfth,  Provo 
Seventeenth,  and  Eighteenth  Wards. 

Shreveport  Stake:  Many  and  Natchito- 
ches Wards,  formerly  branches  in  the 
Gulf  States  Mission. 

South  Los  Angeles  Stake:  Downey 
Third  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Downey  First  Ward. 

South  Ogden  Stake:  Ogden  Fifty- 
Fifth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Og- 
den Thirty-Fourth  and  Fiftieth  Wards. 

Spanish  Fork  Stake:  Spanish  Fork 
Twelfth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Spanish  Fork  First  Ward. 

Spokane  Stake:  Lewiston  Second  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Lewiston  Ward; 
Moscow  Second  Ward,  formed  from 
various  wards;  Spokane  Fifth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Spokane  Fourth 
Ward. 

Tacoma  Stake:  Chehalis  Ward,  for- 
merly Chehalis  Branch;  Tacoma  Fifth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Tacoma 
Second  and  Third  Wards. 

Taylorsville  Stake:  Kearns  Ninth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Kearns 
Third  and  Fourth  Wards;  Kearns  Tenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Kearns 
Fourth  Ward;  Kearns  Eleventh  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Kearns  Fifth 
Ward. 

Timpanogos  Stake:  Pleasant  Grove 
Seventh  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Grove  Ward. 

Tucson  Stake:  Tucson  Fifth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Tucson  First,  Sec- 
ond, Third,  and  Fourth  Wards. 

Twin  Falls  Stake:  Twin  Falls  Seventh 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Twin  Falls 
Fifth  Ward. 

Virginia  Stake:  Dutch  Gap,  Elizabeth 
City,  Newport  News,  Norfolk,  Peters- 
burg, and  Portsmouth  Wards,  formerly 
branches  in  the  Central  Atlantic  States 
Mission. 

University  Stake:  University  Fourth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  University 
Third  Ward. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

Walnut  Creek  Stake:  Lafayette-Orin- 
da  Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Walnut 
Creek  Ward  and  consolidation  of  Orinda 
Branch. 

Weiser  Stake:  Weiser  Second  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Weiser  Ward. 

Wilford  Stake:  Grandview  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Grandview, 
Imperial,  and  Cummings  Second  Wards. 

WARDS  AND  BRANCHES 
TRANSFERRED 

Albuquerque  Stake:  Albuquerque,  Al- 
buquerque Second,  Third,  Fourth,  Blue- 
water,  Los  Alamos  Wards;  Las  Vegas, 
Santa  Fe,  and  Taos  Branches,  formerly 
branches  in  the  Western  States  Mission. 

Atlanta  Stake:  Atlanta,  Atlanta  Sec- 
ond, Columbus,  Empire,  and  Macon 
Wards;  Athens,  Buchanan,  Gibson,  Mill- 
edgeville,  and  Palmetto  Branches,  for- 
merly branches  in  the  Southern  States 
Mission. 

Duchesne  Stake:  Altamont,  Bluebell, 
Moon  Lake,  and  Mt.  Emmons  Wards, 
formerly  of  Moon  Lake  Stake. 

Gooding  Stake:  Hunt  Ward,  formerly 
of  Minidoka  Stake. 

Great  Falls  Stake:  Great  Falls,  Great 
Falls  Second,  Shelby,  and  Sun  River 
Valley  Wards;  Browning,  Bynum,  Con- 
rad, Cut  Bank,  Fairfield,  Ft.  Benton,  and 
Golden  Ridge  Branches,  formerly 
branches  in  the  West  Central  States 
Mission. 

Kearns  Stake:  Kearns,  Kearns  Second, 
Sixth,  Seventh,  and  Eighth  Wards,  for- 
merly of  Taylorsville  Stake. 

Kearns  North  Stake:  Kearns  Third, 
Fourth,  Fifth,  Ninth,  Tenth,  and  Elev- 
enth Wards,  formerly  of  Taylorsville 
Stake. 

Midvale  Stake:  East  Midvale  First, 
Second,  Midvale  First,  Second,  Third, 
and  Fourth  Wards,  formerly  of  East  Jor- 
dan Stake. 

Missoula  Stake:  Allendale,  Charlo, 
Corvallis,  Hamilton,  Missoula,  Missoula 
Second,  Poison,  St.  Ignatius,  and  Stev- 
ensville  Wards;  Darby,  Superior,  and 
Thompson  Falls  Branches,  formerly 
branches  in  the  West  Central  States 
Mission. 

Monterey  Bay  Stake:  Pacific  Grove, 
Salinas,  Santa  Cruz,  Seaside,  and  Wat- 
sonville  Wards;  Gilroy,  Hollister,  and 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  ORGANIZATIONS 


25 


Harmony  Hills  Branches,  formerly  of 
San  Jose  Stake. 

Monument  Park  West  Stake:  Monu- 
ment Park  Third,  Fourth,  Fifth,  Sixth, 
Seventh,  Eighth,  and  Tenth  Wards,  for- 
merly of  Monument  Park  Stake. 

Murray  South  Stake:  Murray  Fifth, 
Sixth,  Seventh,  Ninth,  Tenth,  Eleventh, 
Thirteenth,  and  Fourteenth  Wards,  for- 
merly of  Murray  Stake. 

North  Seattle  Stake:  Alderwood,  Bel- 
lingham,  Everett,  Seattle  Third,  Fifth, 
Seventh,  and  Eighth  Wards;  Monroe, 
Oak  Harbor,  and  Sedro-Woolley  Branch- 
es, formerly  of  Seattle  Stake. 

Orem  West  Stake:  Orem  Third, 
Fourth,  Fifth,  Eighth,  Ninth,  and  Vine- 
yard Wards,  formerly  of  Orem  Stake. 

Orlando  Stake:  Bradenton,  Ellsworth, 
Melbourne,  Orlando,  Tampa,  and  Win- 
ter Haven  Wards;  Belleview,  Dade  City, 
Daytona  Beach,  Dunedin,  Fruitland 
Park,  New  Smyrna  Beach,  St.  Peters- 
burg, Sanford,  and  Springhead  Branch- 
es, formerly  branches  in  the  Southern 
States  Mission. 

Phoenix  North  Stake:  Phoenix  Eighth, 
Ninth,  Tenth,  Sixteenth,  Glendale,  and 
Glendale  Second  Wards,  formerly  of 
Phoenix  Stake. 

San  Antonio  Stake:  Austin  and  San 
Antonio  Wards;  Lackland  Branch,  form- 
erly of  Houston  Stake;  Corpus  Christi 
Ward;  Kenedy  and  Victoria  Branches, 
formerly  branches  in  the  Gulf  States 
Mission. 

San  Luis  Oispo  Stake:  Lompoc,  San 
Luis  Obispo,  Santa  Maria,  Paso  Robles 
Wards;  Las  Flores  Branch,  formerly  of 
Santa  Barbara  Stake. 

San  Mateo  Stake:  Burlingame,  Red- 
wood City,  San  Bruno,  San  Carlos,  San 
Mateo,  San  Mateo  Second  Wards;  Sharp 
Park  Branch,  formerly  of  Palo  Alto 
Stake. 

Santa  Ana  Stake:  Costa  Mesa,  Garden 
Grove,  Garden  Grove  Second,  Laguna 
Beach,  Orange,  Santa  Ana,  and  West- 
minster Wards,  formerly  of  Orange 
County  Stake. 

Shreveport  Stake:  Kelsey  -  Gilmer, 
Longview,  and  Shreveport  Wards;  Hooks, 
Kilgore,  Marshall,  Queen  City,  and 
Texarkana  Branches,  formerly  of  Dallas 
Stake;  Many,  Natchitoches  Wards;  Cous- 
hatta  Branch,  formerly  branches  in  the 
Gulf  States  Mission. 


Virginia  Stake:  Dutch  Gap,  Elizabeth 
City,  Newport  News,  Norfolk,  Peters- 
burg, and  Portsmouth  Wards;  Franklin 
Branch,  formerly  branches  in  the  Cen- 
tral Atlantic  States  Mission;  Richmond 
Ward,  formerly  of  Washington  Stake. 

WARD  AND  BRANCH  NAMES 
CHANGED 

Bear  Lake  Stake:  Liberty  Ward,  for- 
merly Liberty-Sharon  Ward. 

Chicago  Stake:  Chicago  Heights  Ward, 
formerly  Park  Forest  Branch. 

Denver  Stake:  Denver  Seventh  Ward, 
formerly  North  Denver  Branch. 

East  Cache  Stake:  University  First 
Ward,  formerly  College  Hill  Branch. 

Florida  Stake:  Jacksonville  Third 
Ward,  formerly  Springfield  Ward;  Jack- 
sonville Fourth  Ward,  formerly  Wes- 
connett  Ward. 

Fresno  Stake:  Reedley  Branch,  former- 
ly Dinuba  Branch. 

Houston  Stake:  Broadway  Ward,  for- 
merly Houston  First  Ward;  Melbourne 
Ward,  formerly  Houston  Second  Ward. 

Wilford  Stake:  Imperial  Second  Ward, 
formerly  Imperial  West  Ward;  Wilford 
Second  Ward,  formerly  Cummings 
Ward. 

INDEPENDENT  BRANCHES 
ORGANIZED 

Albuquerque  Stake:  Las  Vegas,  Santa 
Fe,  and  Taos  Branches,  formerly  branch- 
es in  the  Western  States  Mission. 

Atlanta  Stake:  Athens,  Buchanan,  Gib- 
son, Milledgeville,  and  Palmetto  Branch- 
es, formerly  branches  in  the  Southern 
States  Mission;  Marietta  Branch,  formed 
by  division  of  Buchanan  Branch  and 
Atlanta  Ward. 

Bakersfield  Stake:  Edwards  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Lancaster  Ward. 

Cedar  Stake:  Indian  Branch,  formed 
by  division  of  Cedar  First  Ward. 

El  Paso  Stake:  Hatch  Branch,  formed 
by  division  of  Las  Cruces  Ward. 

Flagstaff  Stake:  Grand  Canyon 
Branch,  formerly  dependent  upon  Wil- 
liams Branch. 

Fresno  Stake:  Chowchilla  Branch, 
formerly  Chowchilla  Ward;  Madera 
Branch,  formed  by  division  of  Chow- 
chilla Ward. 

Great  Falls  Stake:  Browning,  Bynum, 
Conrad,  Cut  Bank,  Fairfield,  Ft.  Ben- 


26 

Friday,  April  4 

ton,  and  Golden  Ridge  Branches,  for- 
merly branches  in  the  West  Central 
States  Mission. 

Houston  Stake:  Buna  Branch,  formerly 
dependent  upon  Williamson  Ward; 
Huntsville  Branch,  formerly  dependent 
upon  Melbourne  Ward. 

Kanab  Stake:  Page  Branch,  formed 
from  various  wards. 

Mesa  Stake:  Eloy  Branch,  formed  by 
division  of  Casa  Grande  Ward. 

Missoula  Stake:  Darby,  Superior,  and 
Thompson  Falls  Branches,  formerly 
branches  in  the  West  Central  States 
Mission. 

New  York  Stake:  Suffolk  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Uniondale  Ward. 

North  Sacramento  Stake:  Rocklin 
Branch,  formerly  dependent  upon  Rose- 
ville  Ward. 

North  Seattle  Stake:  Arlington 
Branch,  formerly  dependent  upon  Ev- 
erett Ward. 

Orlando  Stake:  Belleview,  Dade  City, 
Daytona  Beach,  Dunedin,  Fruitland 
Park,  New  Smyrna  Beach,  St.  Peters- 
burg, Sanford,  Springhead  Branches, 
formerly  branches  in  the  Southern 
States  Mission. 

St.  Johns  Stake:  Nutrioso  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Alpine  Ward. 

San  Antonio  Stake:  Kenedy  and  Vic- 
toria Branches,  formerly  branches  in  the 
Gulf  States  Mission;  San  Marcos  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Austin  Ward. 

San  Bernardino  Stake:  Lucerne  Valley 
Branch,  formerly  dependent  upon  Victor- 
ville  Ward. 

Santa  Monica  Stake:  Pacific  Palisades 
Branch,  formed  by  division  of  Santa 
Monica  Third  Ward. 

Shreveport  Stake:  Coushatta  Branch, 
formerly  a  branch  in  the  Gulf  States 
Mission. 

Union  Stake:  Brownlee  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Baker  Ward. 

Virginia  Stake:  Franklin  Branch,  for- 
merly a  branch  in  the  Central  Atlantic 
States  Mission. 

Weiser  Stake:  Council  Branch,  formed 
by  division  of  Weiser  River  Branch; 
New  Meadows  Branch,  formed  by  divi- 
sion of  McCall  Branch. 

Willamette  Stake:  Myrtle  Creek 
Branch,  formerly  dependent  upon  Rose- 
burg  Ward. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

WARDS  AND  INDEPENDENT 
BRANCHES  DISCONTINUED 

Bear  Lake  Stake:  Lanark  Ward,  mem- 
bership transferred  to  Liberty  Ward. 

Butte  Stake:  Belgrade  Branch,  mem- 
bership transferred  to  Bozeman  Ward. 

Chicago  Stake:  Batavia  Branch,  mem- 
bership transferred  to  Aurora  Branch. 

Dallas  Stake:  Enoch  Branch,  member- 
ship transferred  to  Kelsey-Gilmer  Ward; 
Pittsburg  Branch,  membership  trans- 
ferred to  Kelsey-Gilmer  Ward. 

Denver  Stake:  Pueblo  Ward,  made  a 
branch  in  the  Western  States  Mission. 

Duchesne  Stake:  Altonah  and  Boneta 
Wards,  membership  transferred  to  Alta- 
mont  Ward;  Arcadia  Ward,  membership 
transferred  to  Bridgeland  Ward;  Moun- 
tain Home  and  Talmage  Wards,  mem- 
bership transferred  to  Moon  Lake  Ward; 
Strawberry  Branch,  membership  trans- 
ferred to  Duchesne  Ward;  Upalco  Ward, 
membership  transferred  to  Mt.  Emmons 
Ward. 

Grand  Junction  Stake:  Baggs  Branch, 
membership  transferred  to  Craig  Ward. 

Great  Falls  Stake:  Ft.  Benton  Branch, 
membership  transferred  to  Great  Falls 
Second  Ward;  Golden  Ridge  Branch, 
membership  transferred  to  Fairfield 
Ward. 

Humboldt  Stake:  Rowland  Branch, 
membership  transferred  to  Elko  Ward. 

Oakland-Berkeley  Stake:  East  Rich- 
mond Ward,  membership  transferred  to 
Richmond  Ward. 

Oquirrh  Stake:  Garfield  First  Ward, 
membership  transferred  to  various  wards. 

Pocatello  Stake:  Pocatello  Twenty- 
First  Ward,  membership  transferred  to 
Pocatello  Fourth  and  Fourteenth  Wards. 

San  Juan  Stake:  LaSal  Branch,  mem- 
bership transferred  to  Monticello  Sec- 
ond Ward. 

Union  Stake:  Imbler  Branch,  mem- 
bership transferred  to  Elgin  Branch. 

Walnut  Creek  Stake:  Orinda  Branch, 
membership  transferred  to  Lafayette- 
Orinda  Ward. 

Wayne  Stake:  Grover  Branch,  mem- 
bership transferred  to  Teasdale  Ward. 

Weiser  Stake:  Stibnite  Branch,  mem- 
bership transferred  to  Council  Branch. 

Wilford  Stake:  Cummings  Second 
Ward,  membership  transferred  to  Im- 
perial, Imperial  Second,  and  Grandview 
Second  Wards. 


STATISTICAL  AND  FINANCIAL  REPORT 


27 


THOSE  WHO  HAVE  PASSED  AWAY       Paul  A.  Callis,  president  of  Reno 


Elder  Adam  S.  Bennion  of  the  Council 


Stake. 


of  the  Twelve  Apostles.  George  S.  Spencer,  member  of  the 

Elder  Thomas  E.  McKay,  Assistant  to  General  Church  Auditing  Committee, 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles.  Ralph  E.  Woolley,  first  president  of 

Elder  Oscar  A.  Kirkham  of  the  First  Oahu  Stake,  and  former  president  of 

Council  of  Seventy.  the  Hawaiian  Temple. 

STATISTICAL  AND  FINANCIAL  REPORT  —  1957 

For  the  Information  of  the  Members  of  the  Church: 

The  First  Presidency  issued  the  following  statement  concerning  the  condition  and 
operation  of  the  Church  for  the  year  1957.  The  statement  will  include  two  sections: 
first,  Statistical  Information;  and  second,  Financial  Data. 

/.  STATISTICAL  INFORMATION 

Number  of  Stakes  of  Zion  at  close  of  1957    251 

an  increase  of  12  during  the  year 

Number  of  Wards    2,081 

Number  of  Independent  Branches    281 

Total  Wards  and  Independent  Branches  at  close  of  year   2,362 

an  increase  of  152  during  the  year 
Number  of  Full-Time  Missions  at  end  of  year   45 

Church  Membership,  December  31,  1957: 

In  the  Stakes    1,233,397 

In  the  Missions    254,917 

Total  Membership    1,488,314 

an  increase  of  71,583  during  the  year 

Church  Growth  during  1957: 

Children  blessed  in  Stakes  and  Missions    51,044 

Children  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions    33,245 

Converts  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions    30,129 

an  increase  of  4,948  in  convert  baptisms  over  the  preceding  year. 

Social  Statistics: 

(of  membership  in  the  Stakes,  1957) 

Birth  rate  per  thousand    34.92 

Marriage  rate  per  thousand    7.94 

Death  rate  per  thousand    5.38 

Priesthood: 

Members  holding  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  December  31,  1957: 

Deacons    65,605 

Teachers    53,729 

Priests    66,958 

Total  number  holding  Aaronic  Priesthood    186,292 

an  increase  of  8,958  during  the  year 
Members  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  December  31,  1957: 

Elders    139,541 

Seventies    21,480 

High  Priests    41,967 

Total  number  holding  Melchizedek  Priesthood    202,988 

an  increase  of  7,791  during  the  year 
Grand  total,  members  holding  Aaronic  or  Melchizedek  Priesthood   389,280 

Auxiliary  Organizations: 

Relief  Society  (membership)    183,436 

an  increase  of  10,714  over  the  preceding  year 
Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  (Preliminary  report  of 

average  attendance)    548,318 

an  increase  of  56,856  over  the  preceding  year 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  4  First  Day 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  (Enrollment)    214,087 

an  increase  of  35,169  over  the  preceding  year 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  (Enrollment)    191,275 

an  increase  of  16,302  over  the  preceding  year 

Primary  (Children  Enrolled)    268,954 

an  increase  of  15,378  over  the  preceding  year 

Welfare  Plan: 

Number  of  persons  assisted  from  Bishops'  Storehouses,  and 

those  assisted  from  Fast  Offerings  in  1957    67,878 

Number  placed  in  remunerative  employment  during  year    8,896 

Man-days  of  work  donated  to  the  Welfare  Plan  during  year    143,143 

Unit-days  of  equipment  use  donated    12,361 

Genealogical  Society: 

Number  of  names  cleared  in  1957  for  the  performance  of 

ordinances  in  the  Temples    829,708 

an  increase  of  81,410  over  the  preceding  year 
Genealogical  records  microfilmed  in  9  countries  during  the  year  were 

equivalent  to  83,692  printed  volumes  of  approximately  300  pages 

per  volume: 

Temples: 

Number  of  ordinances  performed  during  1957  in  the  10  operating  Temples: 

For  the  living    35,366 

For  the  dead   3,211,934 

Total  number  of  ordinances    3,247,300 

an  increase  of  621,808  over  the  preceding  year 

Church  School  System: 

Total  1957  cumulative  enrollments  in  the  Church  School  System 
(including  schools  in  the  Pacific) : 

College  Students    19,322 

Elementary  and  High  School  Students    48,174 

Missionaries: 

Number  of  missionaries  who  at  the  close  of  1957  were  laboring  under  calls 

from  the  First  Presidency  in  the  full-time  missions    5,387 

an  increase  of  284  during  the  year 
Number  of  other  missionaries  laboring  at  the  close  of  1957  in  full-time 

missions    1,229 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  Stakes  at  the  close  of  the  year ..  6,366 

Total  number  of  missionaries  at  end  of  year    12,982 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  in  the  Missionary  Home 

during  1957    2,518 


//.  EXPENDITURES  OF  THE  CHURCH  IN  1957 
(From  Church  General  Funds  and  from  Other  Contributions) 


For  Missions  and  Missionary  Work    $12,137,175 

(not  including  an  estimated  $4,600,000  paid  by  members  and  friends 
for  support  of  missionaries,  and  not  including  value  of  the  time  given 
by  missionaries.) 

For  Ward  and  Stake  Buildings  and  Activities    21,591,703 

For  Construction  and  Operation  of  Temples    2,189,040 

For  Church  Schools    10,351,171 

For  Welfare    6,242,500 

(not  including  value  of  donated  labor.) 

For  Buildings  and  Grounds  not  Included  Elsewhere    951,084 

For  Genealogical  Society    1,508,412 

For  Expenses  of  the  Auxiliary  General  Boards  and  of  the  Primary  Children's 

Hospital    564,945 

For  General  Administrative  Expenses  of  the  Church    2,094,889 

For  All  Other  Purposes  ,  ,  ,   514,944 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


29 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  has  just  read 
the  statistical  data,  financial  expendi- 
tures, etc.,  relating  to  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  for 
1957.  Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  will  now 
read  the  report  of  the  Church  Auditing 
Committee,  after  which  we  shall  hear 
from  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith. 

Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  of  the  Church 
Auditing  Committee  read  the  following 
report: 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
March  31,  1958 

President  David  O.  McKay  and 
Counselors,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

Dear  Brethren: 

We  have  reviewed  the  Report  of  the 
Income  and  Expenditures  of  the  Corpo- 
ration of  the  President  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  for 


the  year  1957.  The  record  keeping 
shows  evidence  of  great  care  and  the 
reports  prepared  are  clear  and  con- 
cise. An  adequate  system  of  internal 
audit  control  has  been  maintained.  Ex- 
penditures are  well  within  the  income 
of  the  Church  and  it  is  indicated  that 
expenses  have  been  held  below  the 
figures  budgeted.  We  have  been  as- 
sured that  the  Church  is  free  from 
debt. 

Respectfully  submitted, 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Church  Auditing 
Committee. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  President 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  President  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  S.  Dilworth 
Young. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  will  address  my  remarks,  if  I  may 
have  the  right  inspiration,  to  the  fathers 
and  mothers  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  likewise  to 
those  who  are  engaged  in  the  organiza- 
tions of  the  Church  looking  after  the 
youth  of  Israel. 

Some  few  months  ago  I  read  in  the 
paper  that  the  majority  of  crimes  com- 
mitted in  the  United  States  were  com- 
mitted by  those  who  were  of  teen  ages. 
That  was  a  shock  to  me  and  I  think  to 
thousands  of  others,  many  thousands 
throughout  this  land,  for  it  seemed  to  be 
so  unusual  and  a  trend  that  boded  only 
evil  for  this  country.  We  have  been 
troubled  even  in  our  own  city,  and  this 
trouble  has  existed  in  all  parts  of  the 
land,  with  vandalism,  the  wanton  de- 
struction of  property,  crimes  by  children 
and  teen-agers,  which  show  a  tendency 
that  will  lead  only  to  serious  trouble 
within  the  borders  of  our  country  in 
years  to  come. 

So  I  appeal  to  you,  my  dear  brethren 
and  sisters,  husbands  and  wives,  fathers 
and  mothers,  to  take  advantage  of  every 
opportunity  the  Church  affords  to  have 


your  children  trained  in  the  various 
organizations  provided  for  them  by  the 
revelations  of  the  Lord:  the  Primary, 
the  Sunday  School,  the  Mutual  Im- 
provement organizations,  and  the  quo- 
rums of  the  Lesser  Priesthood  under  the 
direction  of  our  bishoprics. 

I  hope  that  you  are  teaching  your 
children  in  your  homes  to  pray.  I  hope 
that  you  are  having  family  prayers, 
morning  and  evening,  that  your  chil- 
dren are  taught  by  example  and  by 
precept  to  observe  the  commandments 
that  are  so  precious  and  so  sacred  and 
mean  so  much  to  our  salvation  in  the 
kingdom  of  God. 

The  Lord  said  in  a  revelation  given 
to  the  Church  in  1831: 

And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents  have 
children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her  stakes 
which  are  organized,  that  teach  them  not 
to  understand  the  doctrine  of  repentance, 
faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the  living  God, 
and  of  baptism  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands,  when 
eight  years  old,  the  sin  be  upon  the  heads 
of  the  parents. 

For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the  in- 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  4 

habitants  of  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her  stakes 
which  are  organized.  (D  &  C  68:25-26.) 

And  I  think  I  could  add  with  equal 
truth  in  any  branch  of  the  Church  in 
any  mission  or  any  other  place  outside 
of  the  stakes  of  Zion.  The  Lord  re- 
quires this  at  our  hands.  I  am  reminded 
of  a  statement  that  was  made  in  a  dis- 
course by  President  Brigham  Young  one 
time  which  I  am  not  able  to  quote  cor- 
rectly, but  the  substance  of  it  is  this: 

You  say  this  is  my  wife.  You  say  these 
are  my  children.  That  all  depends  upon 
your  keeping  the  commandments  of  God. 

That  is  the  substance  of  it.  In  other 
words,  the  Lord  can  take  away  from 
you  this  wife.  He  can  take  away  from 
you  these  children.  He  has  not  re- 
linquished his  claim  upon  any  of  the 
children  that  have  been  entrusted  to  our 
care. 

So  I  make  this  appeal  because  the 
tendency  in  this  country  today,  as  you 
all  know  who  read  the  papers,  is  towards 
nuclear  energy,  traveling  to  the  moon, 
getting  off  the  earth,  and  going  some- 
where else.  But  people  have  forgotten 
God.   We  cannot  afford  to  do  that. 

Let  us  as  members  of  the  Church, 
no  matter  what  else  we  may  think  about 
space  travel,  keep  our  feet  on  the 
ground,  spiritually  and  in  the  home. 

One  thing,  too,  that  I  would  like  to 
call  attention  to — young  people,  when 
they  marry,  are  not  satisfied  to  begin 
with  a  little  and  humbly,  but  they  want 
to  receive  just  about  as  much  as  their 
parents  have  at  the  time  they,  the  chil- 
dren, get  married.  They  must  have  an 
automobile;  they  have  to  have  a  tele- 
vision set,  a  radio,  all  kinds  of  con- 
veniences, many  of  which,  of  course, 
are  very  helpful.  But  they  want  to 
start  out  with  every  convenience  under 
the  sun  to  make  them  comfortable.  I 
think  this  is  a  mistake.  I  think  they 
should  begin  humbly,  putting  their 
faith  in  the  Lord,  building  here  a  little 
and  there  a  little  as  they  can,  accumu- 
lating piecemeal,  until  they  can  reach 
a  position  of  prosperity  such  as  they 
wish  to  have. 

Now  this  condition  of  wanting  every- 
thing leads  to  this  great  trouble:  Both 
the  mother  and  the  father  find  employ- 
ment. That  means  that  children  are 
left  either  to  run  the  streets  or  some- 


First  Day 

body  has  to  be  called  in  to  take  care  of 
them  in  the  absence  of  the  parents, 
and  generally,  it  is  my  opinion  that 
these  children  are  left  to  wander  the 
streets,  to  get  into  mischief,  and  they 
do  not  have  the  proper  attention  that 
ought  to  be  given  to  them  by  the  mother 
in  the  home. 

Now,  let  us  try  humbly  to  keep  our 
families  intact,  to  keep  them  under  the 
influence  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord, 
trained  in  the  principles  of  the  gospel 
that  they  may  grow  up  in  righteousness 
and  truth.  I  think  the  Lord  requires 
that  at  our  hands.  He  has  said,  as  I 
have  read  to  you  here,  that  he  will  hold 
the  parents  responsible  for  the  acts  of 
the  children  and  they  are  given  unto  us 
that  we  might  train  them  in  the  ways 
of  life,  eternal  life,  that  they  might 
come  back  again  into  the  presence  of 
God,  their  Father. 

Now,  some  may  think  I  am  a  little 
extreme  but  I  think  that  the  training  of 
the  children,  the  watching  care  over  the 
children  in  the  home  by  the  mother,  is 
worth  far  more  than  to  have  her  seek 
employment,  even  if  it  is  a  matter  of 
pinching  a  little  in  order  to  keep  going 
in  the  home. 

Again,  we  have  throughout  the 
Church,  wherever  it  is  possible  for  us 
to  have  this  opportunity,  seminaries  and 
institutes  which  our  children  who  are 
old  enough  to  go  to  the  public  schools 
or  even  to  the  colleges  may  attend. 
Brethren  and  sisters,  send  your  children 
to  these  seminaries.  Those  who  are  go- 
ing to  college  will  be  old  enough,  if 
they  have  the  proper  training  in  their 
youth,  to  attend  the  institutes  of  the 
Church.  They  are  old  enough  to  take 
care  of  themselves.  But  help  your  chil- 
dren in  every  way  you  can  to  grow  up 
with  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Teach  them  to  pray.  Teach 
them  to  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
to  walk  faithfully  and  humbly  before 
the  Lord  so  that  when  they  grow  up 
to  manhood  and  womanhood  they  can 
thank  you  for  what  you  have  done  for 
them  and  look  back  over  their  lives  with 
grateful  hearts  and  with  love  for  their 
parents  for  the  manner  in  which  those 
parents  cared  for  them  and  trained  them 
in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

And  so  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


31 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened 
is  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 


We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  S. 
Dilworth  Young  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy.  He  will  be  followed  by  the 
Patriarch  to  the  Church. 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


I  echo  the  words  of  President  McKay 
this  morning  and  of  President  Smith 
this  afternoon  expressing  an  anxiety  we 
should  have  for  our  children.  In  that 
connection  I  also  remember  that  the  day 
after  tomorrow  is  the  anniversary  of  the 
resurrection  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
I  think,  too,  that  April  6  is  as  near  the 
anniversary  of  the  actual  day  that  it 
took  place  as  we  shall  ever  be  able  to 
ascertain. 

I  believe,  too,  that  the  Lord  himself 
did  not  consider  that  the  resurrection 
was  his  greatest  gift  to  man.  I  do  not 
attempt  to  defend  the  statement.  I  be- 
lieve that  he  knew  that  we  could  not 
understand  all  of  his  purposes  but  that 
as  humans  we  might  understand  what 
it  meant  to  lay  down  a  body  and  take 
it  up  again.  I  believe  his  highest  pur- 
pose is  that  his  children  who  will  sup- 
port and  sustain  him  will  be  given 
exaltation  in  his  presence.  That,  I 
think,  is  what  he  had  in  mind  when 
he  came  to  the  earth  in  the  first  place. 
I  think  he  taught  it  to  those  who  could 
understand  the  doctrine,  and  I  believe 
that  he  has  restored  it  to  us  in  this 
last  day  with  the  purpose  now  of  bring- 
ing it  to  a  fulfilment. 

If  that  be  true,  then  the  family  is 
probably  the  greatest  element  in  our 
lives  today.  Without  the  family  we 
shall  not  attain  exaltation,  as  I  under- 
stand exaltation  to  be.  And  of  course 
without  children  the  family  would  not 
be  very  much. 

But  if  we  lose  our  children  in  the 
process  of  attaining  exaltation,  I  think 
it  is  a  little  vain  to  assume  that  we  are 
going  to  have  very  much  happiness. 
Therefore  I  would  raise  my  voice  in 
asking  that  we  give  special  attention  to 
the  children.  Too,  in  1958,  we  should 
begin  to  take  steps  which  will  correct 
the  abuses  which  affect  their  lives  in 
many  places. 

It  so  happens  that  much  of  my  life 


has  been  spent  working  with  children. 
This  gives  me  some  right  to  mention 
three  needs  which  I  think  I  can  draw 
from  that  experience.  I  could  name  a 
dozen,  but  I  have  chosen  these  three 
because  of  associations  I  have  had  with 
three  men.  Each  of  these  men  is  as- 
sociated in  my  experience  with  children. 
In  one  case,  one  taught  me  as  a  youth. 
In  the  other  two  cases,  in  my  work  with 
children,  I  had  dealings  with  them.  I 
think  in  the  things  they  told  me  and 
in  the  things  they  did  themselves  are 
found  possibly  some  bases  upon  which 
we  can  begin  our  work.  Here,  then, 
are  lessons  from  the  three. 

Dr.  Adam  S.  Bennion  would  not  have 
said,  "Make  things  easy  for  youth." 
Rather  he  would  have  them  develop 
honor  by  means  of  sharp  competition. 
On  the  playing  court  he  would  have 
applied  the  lessons  which  would  be 
their  strength  in  manhood.  He  wanted 
keen,  sharp,  hard  play;  to  win  hard, 
fair,  and  square;  to  lose  gracefully.  But 
let  some  man  try  to  use  these  fields  of 
action  to  win  illegitimately,  to  use  an 
unfair  tactic  to  further  his  own  ends, 
to  make  the  end  justify  foul  means,  and 
Adam  Bennion  became  at  once  a  hornet 
and  a  cudgel  to  drive  him  away. 

At  some  point  in  their  lives  all  chil- 
dren must  be  protected  from  the  de- 
signs of  conspiring  men.  Adam  Bennion 
was  one  who  was  fearless,  outspoken, 
their  protector.  Youth  needs  that  pro- 
tection by  adults. 

Oscar  A.  Kirkham  could  lift  boys  and 
girls  out  of  themselves,  to  aspire  to  high 
things.  In  his  hands  they  rode  on  the 
wings  of  eagles;  they  acquired  the 
rugged  strength  of  the  mighty  oak.  He 
pointed  the  way  to  show  that  the  great- 
est adventures  are  those  in  fields  of 
morality,  honor,  and  integrity.  When 
he  left  them,  the  embers  of  the  campfire 
dying  down,  somehow  each  one  knew 
that  the  message  was  the  echo  of  his 


32 

Friday,  April  4 

own  unformed  ideals  leaping  into  high 
resolve.    We  need  more  of  that,  too. 

Thomas  E.  McKay  was  a  stake  presi- 
dent. I  was  a  member  of  his  stake  for 
many  years.  Thomas  E.  McKay  was  for 
children.  When  help  was  needed,  his 
weight  and  his  influence  were  applied 
with  full  force  and  without  reservation, 
and  it  was  no  mean  force.  He  made 
only  one  stipulation  to  me  when  I  was 
working  with  children.  The  man  oper- 
ating the  program  must  not  let  the 
parents  or  the  Church  down.  The  prin- 
ciples of  salvation  and  the  testimonies 
of  leaders  must  be  the  guiding  factors. 

These  three  elements  were  part  of  the 
living  souls  of  the  three  men  of  whom 
I  speak,  whom  I  loved  and  revered. 

Now,  may  I  summarize  what  I  have 
just  said  as  to  what  our  children  might 
need  and  which  we  should  be  alert  to 
give  them: 

Teach  youth  to  play  fair  and  square, 
to  play  hard  and  to  win  modestly,  to 
lose  gracefully,  but,  above  all  things, 
protect  them  from  evil  men  until  they 
are  old  enough  to  protect  themselves. 
That  is  a  vital  thing. 

Fire  each  child  with  the  desire  to 
reach  the  heights  of  happy  achievement. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

Unless  the  spark  kindles  the  flame,  an 
inner  flame,  it  will  not  warm  the  soul. 
This  is  vital,  too. 

Finally,  keep  always  in  mind  the  ulti- 
mate goal,  exaltation  in  the  presence 
of  the  Father  and  the  Son.  Do  nothing 
to  cloud  this  goal  in  the  minds  of  chil- 
dren, my  brethren.  Do  everything  to 
keep  its  guiding  light  brightly  shining. 

I  believe  that  if  these  three  things, 
plus  others  which  could  be  mentioned 
in  handling  children,  can  be  applied, 
somehow  our  eternities  will  be  sure.  In 
this  group  here  before  me  is  the  power 
to  lead  our  children  into  righteousness, 
if  we  will  but  apply  the  principles. 

My  testimony  is  that  God  lives  and 
that  Jesus  Christ  the  Lord  lives  and 
watches  over  us  and  desires  us  to  come 
into  his  presence  if  we  will  but  obey. 
I  say  it  in  his  Holy  Name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy  has  just  spoken 
to  us.  Now  we  shall  hear  from  Elder 
Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to  the 
Church. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


I  pray  that  I  shall  have  an  interest  in 
your  faith  and  prayers  while  I  take  this 
precious  time.  We  have  heard  of  the 
successes  of  the  missionary  work  and  the 
other  activities  of  the  Church.  The 
growth  of  the  Church  is  glorious  in  all 
its  activities.  The  success  of  man  and 
the  Church  can  be  measured,  I  think, 
in  the  answer  to  the  question,  "How 
near  to  God  are  you?" 

Every  one  of  us  came  from  a  pre- 
earthly  existence.  We  always  existed. 
Before  coming  to  this  earth  we  lived 
with  our  heavenly  parents.  We  were 
their  children.  Challenging  Job,  the 
Lord  said: 

Where  wast  thou  when  I  laid  the  foun- 
dations of  the  earth?  declare,  if  thou  hast 
understanding. 

When  the  morning  stars  sang  together, 
and  all  the  sons  of  God  shouted  for  joy? 
(Job  38:4,  7.) 


And  again  Abraham  said: 

Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me,  Abra- 
ham, the  intelligences  that  were  organized 
before  the  world  was;  and  among  all  these 
there  were  many  of  the  noble  -  and  great 
ones; 

And  God  saw  these  souls  that  they  were 
good,  and  he  stood  in  the  midst  of  them, 
and  he  said:  These  I  will  make  my  rulers; 
for  he  stood  among  those  that  were  spirits, 
and  he  saw  that  they  were  good;  and  he 
said  unto  me:  Abraham,  thou  art  one  of 
them;  thou  wast  chosen  before  thou  wast 
born.  (Abraham  3:22-23.) 

We  are  all  children  of  our  heavenly 
parents.  We  lived  with  them  in  the 
celestial  kingdom.  We  walked  by  sight. 
We  knew  what  the  celestial  glory  was. 
As  spirits  only,  we  could  not  partake  of 
the  fulness  thereof.  We  knew  how  our 
Heavenly  Father  came  to  his  exaltation. 
Was  it  any  wonder,  then,  that  we 


ELDER  ELDR 

shouted  for  joy  when  it  was  made 
known  unto  us  that  we  could  come  to 
earth?  We  knew  this  was  the  step 
necessary  and  the  opportunity  for  us  to 
gain  that  glory  which  we  there  knew  so 
well.  We  were  promised  that  if  we 
were  faithful  in  all  things  we  would 
have  the  opportunity  to  return  unto  our 
Father  in  heaven.  We  knew  we  would 
come  here,  having  forgotten  all,  and 
be  tried  and  tested.  This  was  to  be 
an  opportunity  where  we  would  learn 
from  our  own  experience.  We  were  to 
learn  good  from  evil,  right  from  wrong. 
We  would  learn  obedience. 

To  prove  our  obedience,  among  other 
things,  there  was  a  gospel  plan  given. 
This  plan  made  necessary  a  Savior. 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Only  Begotten  of  the 
Father  in  the  flesh,  came  in  the  Merid- 
ian of  Time,  and  through  his  atoning 
sacrifice  broke  the  bonds  of  death  and 
opened  the  gates  of  the  resurrection. 

This  Sunday  all  Christians  celebrate 
the  anniversary  of  this  great  day. 
Through  him  all  shall  have  a  glorious 
resurrection.  We  were  promised  the 
right  and  opportunity  to  return  to  our 
Father  in  heaven.  Jesus  Christ  was  our 
Elder  Brother  in  that  pre-earthly  exist- 
ence. He  was,  however,  the  Only 
Begotten  of  the  Father  in  the  flesh.  It 
was  he  who  created  this  earth.  Thus, 
as  a  God,  begotten  of  the  Father  in  the 
flesh,  he  had  power  over  life  and  death. 
No  power  could  take  his  life  unless  he 
gave  it.  He  could  have  lived  forever. 
But  no,  he  chose  to  do  the  will  of  the 
Father  and  give  his  life  that  all  might 
live.  Thus  he  broke  the  bonds  of  death 
and  opened  the  doors  of  the  resurrec- 
tion, giving  all  mankind,  all  God's  chil- 
dren, the  opportunity  to  be  resurrected 
and  come  unto  him. 

Through  Christ  we  shall  all  be  resur- 
rected, but  not  all  to  the  same  glory. 
In  Corinthians  we  read: 

There  are  also  celestial  bodies,  and  bodies 
terrestrial:  but  the  glory  of  the  celestial  is 
one,  and  the  glory  of  the  terrestrial  is  an- 
other. 

There  is  one  glory  of  the  sun,  and  another 
glory  of  the  moon,  and  another  glory  of 
the  stars:  for  one  star  differeth  from  another 
star  in  glory. 

So  also  is  the  resurrection  of  the  dead.  .  .  . 
(I  Cor.  15:40-42.) 


:d  G.  SMITH  33 

The  highest  glory  is  the  celestial,  and 
naturally,  the  abode  of  our  Father  in 
heaven.  To  attain  this  glory  there  are 
special  requirements.  For  this  purpose 
is  the  gospel  given  to  man.  How  well 
we,  individually,  accept  and  fulfil  the 
laws  of  the  gospel  determines  how  near 
to  God  we  will  come. 

How  near  to  God  are  you?  The  Lord 
has  said: 

Come  unto  me  all  ye  that  labour  and 
are  heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give  you  rest. 
(Matt.  11:28.) 

Brother  Kimball  reminded  us  this 
morning,  and  I  have  often  heard  him 
say,  "Rest  is  not  relaxation  and  loung- 
ing.   It  is  exaltation." 

Christ  has  given  us  the  gospel  as  a 
way  of  life  that  will  lead  us,  if  we  will 
live  it  fully,  to  exaltation.  He  has  not 
left  us  to  stumble  blindly  in  the  dark. 
It  is  there  for  us  to  follow  and  obey. 
Christ  said  to  Nicodemus: 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  Except  a 
man  be  born  again,  he  cannot  see  the  king- 
dom of  God. 

Nicodemus  did  not  understand,  and 
the  Lord  added, 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  Except  a 
man  be  born  of  water  and  of  the  Spirit, 
he  cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God. 
(John  3:3,  5.) 

How  near  to  God  are  you?  If  you 
have  not  entered  the  waters  of  baptism 
yet,  I  suggest  that  you  seek  God  in 
prayer  and  ask  for  understanding  that 
you  also  may  come  nearer  to  him. 
Through  prayer  and  wholehearted  de- 
sire we  may  come  near  enough  to  him 
to  receive  extra  added  strength,  to  keep 
his  commandments,  to  overcome  evil,  to 
change  from  bad  habits  to  good  habits. 

Johnson  said  "bad  men  excuse  their 
faults;  good  men  leave  them."  Have  you 
placed  a  barrier  between  you  and  God 
through  misdeeds,  neglect,  omissions, 
or  habits  displeasing  to  God  which  keep 
you  from  coming  nearer  to  him?  How 
near  to  God  are  you?  Repentance  is 
a  very  difficult  task,  yet  we  all  have 
plenty  of  it  to  do.  Prayer  is  needed 
to  help  us  repent.  The  feeling  of  guilt 
ties  our  tongues  so  that  we  cannot  speak 
to  him  or  approach  him,  yet  God  is 


34 

Friday,  April  4 

always  there  to  help.  The  door  is  never 
completely  closed.  Adversity  is  often 
the  tool  used  to  humble  us  and  bring 
us  closer  to  our  Heavenly  Father. 

How  near  to  God  are  you?  Do  you 
have  the  strength  to  repent?  Yes,  you 
may  even  be  given  added  physical 
strength  if  you  live  near  enough  to 
God.  I  recall  the  experience  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  when  he  received 
the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of 
Mormon  was  translated.  Before  bring- 
ing them  directly  home  he  secreted 
them  in  a  grove  of  trees,  and  upon  re- 
turning for  them  he  found  them  safe, 
and  as  he  started  homeward  he  was 
encountered  by  a  man  who  tried  to 
force  them  from  him.  He  fought  this 
man  off,  knocking  him  down,  then  in 
going  farther  the  Prophet  met  another 
man  whom  he  likewise  knocked  down. 
He  continued  again,  and  met  a  third 
man  with  the  same  result,  then  ran  the 
rest  of  approximately  three  miles  to  his 
home.  I  think  the  Lord  gave  that  ex- 
perience to  show  him  that  he  could 
receive  extra  added  physical  strength, 
because  though  he  had  the  plates  in 
his  possession  which  would  handicap  or 
hinder  him  physically,  he  was  still  able 
to  overcome  the  physical  powers  that 
were  forced  upon  him. 

Yes,  how  near  to  God  are  you?  To 
be  exalted  with  God  in  the  celestial 
kingdom  requires  both  righteous  living 
and  fulfilling  the  ordinances  of  the  gos- 
pel. There  are  those  who  live  a  good 
life,  but  do  not  accept  the  ordinances 
of  the  gospel.  On  the  other  hand  there 
are  those  who  think  that  because  they 
have  been  baptized,  ordained,  endowed, 
and  sealed,  that  is  enough.  Yet  they 
do  not  live  righteous  lives.  Both  right- 
eous living  and  fulfilling  the  ordinances 
of  the  gospel  are  necessary  to  come  unto 
God.  Jesus  Christ  said  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  in  the  Sacred  Grove  in 
that  greatest  of  all  visions: 

.  .  .  they  draw  near  to  me  with  their  lips, 
but  their  hearts  are  far  from  me,  they  teach 
for  doctrines  the  commandments  of  men, 
having  a  form  of  godliness,  but  they  deny 
the  power  thereof. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

I  wonder  how  many  of  us  who  are 
members  of  the  Church  draw  near  to 
him  with  our  lips,  but  our  hearts  are 
far  from  him.  Are  we  near  enough  to 
pay  a  full  tithing?  Are  we  near  enough 
to  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom?  Do  we 
attend  our  Sacrament  meetings?  Do  we 
do  our  ward  teaching?  Do  we  partake 
of  the  Sacrament  and  covenant  to  keep 
his  commandments,  and  then  keep 
them?  Do  we  go  to  the  temple  to  be 
sealed  as  husband  and  wife  for  time  and 
eternity?  Do  we  have  peace,  love,  and 
harmony  in  our  homes?  Or  are  we 
like  the  ten  virgins  the  Lord  referred 
to  of  whom  only  fifty  percent  would 
measure  up  to  come  into  his  presence? 

Patriarchal  blessings  are  given  to  help 
us  to  return  unto  God,  to  be  exalted 
in  his  kingdom.  The  blessings  of  the 
Lord  are  given  to  all  who  will  come 
unto  him.  Seek  his  guidance  in  prayer 
and  faith  and  humility,  that  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord  shall  be  unto  you  as 
you  draw  near  to  him  with  your  hearts, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to 
the  Church,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  The 
congregation  will  now  join  in  singing, 
"Now  Let  Us  Rejoice."  They  will  join 
with  the  Combined  Choruses  from  the 
Brigham  Young  University,  conducted 
by  Don  L.  Earl,  with  Roy  M.  Darley 
at  the  organ. 

After  the  singing  Elder  EIRay  L. 
Christiansen  will  speak  to  us. 


The  congregation  and  the  Combined 
Choruses  of  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"Now  Let  Us  Rejoice." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  Assistant 
to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  will  be 
our  next  speaker.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  George  Q.  Morris. 


35 


ELDER  EL  RAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  had  had  a  desire  to  discuss  a  few 
truths  of  the  gospel,  having  in  mind 
particularly  those  Saints  who  are  in 
somewhat  of  a  quandary  as  to  what  it 
is  all  about,  particularly  those  young 
people  who  have  asked  us  such  ques- 
tions as:  "Why  worry  so  much  about 
us?"  "What  difference  does  it  make?" 
"Why  is  it  necessary  that  we  do  this?" 

For  a  wise  and  glorious  purpose 
Thou  hast  placed  me  here  on  earth, 
And  withheld  the  recollection 
Of  my  former  friends  and  birth. 
Yet  ofttimes  a  secret  something 
Whispered,  "You're  a  stranger  here." 
And  I  felt  that  I  had  wandered 
From  a  more  exalted  sphere. 

So  sang  the  poetess,  Eliza  R.  Snow. 
Since  the  Lord  has  seen  fit  to  open  again 
the  windows  of  heaven  and  reveal  his 
mind  and  will  to  his  servants,  the  proph- 
ets, beginning  with  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  greater  understanding  and  knowl- 
edge has  come  to  man  in  relation  to  his 
origin,  his  place  on  earth,  and  his  re- 
lationship to  God.  As  we  have  already 
heard,  this  earth  was  organized  for  a 
special,  definite,  and  divinely  designed 
purpose — that  we  might  live  here  and 
by  following  the  plan  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  work  out  our  destiny,  our 
future,  our  salvation. 

Every  one  of  us  will  die.  All  of  us 
will  be  resurrected,  and  all  of  us  will 
live  forever — somewhere.  Where  we 
shall  live  in  the  hereafter  is  left  entirely 
to  each  one  of  us  as  an  individual.  It  is 
possible  for  us  to  rise  to  exaltation  in  the 
celestial  world,  or,  if  we  are  dilatory 
or  disobedient  or  indifferent,  it  is  possi- 
ble for  us  to  remain  with  those  of  that 
category. 

There  are  varying  degrees  of  salva- 
tion, of  happiness,  of  joy,  and  the  fright- 
ening thing  to  me  is  that  it  is  left  to 
me  to  determine  where  I  will  fit  in,  in 
that  life  to  come.  There  is  nothing, 
certainly,  that  I  would  like  more  than 
to  find  myself  with  my  family,  with 
those  I  love,  with  my  friends,  and  with 
my  Brethren,  but  I  know  that  in  order 
to  merit  that,  I  must  conform  to  certain 
principles,  accept  all  the  laws  and  ordi- 


nances of  the  gospel.  I  must  yield 
valiant  service  in  the  cause  of  righteous- 
ness, in  helping  to  build  up  the  king- 
dom, and  I  must,  of  course,  have  ac- 
cepted baptism  by  immersion  by  proper 
authority  in  order  to  become  a  member 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  Those  ordinances  are  in- 
dispensable and  essential  for  all  of  us. 
I  hope  that  those  boys  and  girls  who 
have  talked  to  me  about  this,  and  others 
who  may  be  in  the  same  frame  of  mind, 
who  are  seeking  for  happiness,  will  begin 
by  conforming  their  lives  to  the  princi- 
ples of  this  glorious  gospel,  which  is  a 
gospel  of  happiness,  a  gospel  of  joy,  a 
gospel  that  will  bring  us  peace,  even 
the  peace  that  passeth  understanding. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  once  made 
this  statement,  which  is  wonderful  to 
contemplate: 

Happiness  is  the  object  and  design  of  our 
existence,  and  will  be  the  end  thereof,  if 
we  pursue  the  path  that  leads  to  it,  and 
this  path  is  virtue,  uprightness,  faithfulness, 
holiness,  and  in  keeping  all  of  the  com- 
mandments of  God.  (Teachings  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  pages  255-6.) 

That  is  a  simple  prescription  and  it  is 
just  as  easy  to  follow  as  it  is  to  follow 
the  compass  once  we  set  our  course  and 
get  our  directions. 

Now,  I  am  sure  that  we  must  have 
been  faithful,  even  valiant,  in  that  pre- 
existent  world  because  we  have  gradu- 
ated, so  to  speak,  with  some  degree  of 
honor  into  this  state  of  our  existence, 
which  was  necessary  in  order  to  con- 
tinue the  next  phase  and  rise  to  the 
heights  of  joy  and  happiness  and  receive 
all  that  the  Lord  desires  us  to  receive. 
It  is  here,  now,  that  we  determine  where 
and  what  we  will  be  in  that  life  which 
follows  this  one  upon  the  earth.  The 
precious  right  to  direct  the  life  that  has 
been  given  to  us  by  our  Father  should 
be  cherished  by  each  individual,  for 
each  may  determine  for  himself  whether 
he  will  perfect  his  life  by  keeping  the 
commandments  of  God  or  whether  he 
will  follow  his  own  inclinations  and 
wayward  ways.  All  of  us,  however,  will 
be  rewarded  according  to  our  works, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


36 

Friday,  April  4 

and  our  salvation  will  be  graded  ac- 
cordingly. In  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
we  have  the  perfect  plan  for  the  happi- 
ness that  we  may  achieve. 

There  is  no  need  for  any  of  us  to  get 
lost  in  the  wilderness  of  doubt  and  un- 
certainty, and  of  foolish  doctrines,  be- 
cause the  way  is  clearly  defined. 

It  was  Emerson  who  said:  "Man  has 
two  creators — his  God  and  himself." 
Having  this  life  given  us  to  live  and  to 
plan  and  direct,  it  is  a  tremendous  re- 
sponsibility that  rests  upon  us.  We 
must  constantly  segregate  the  things 
which  endure  from  the  things  which 
are  transitory.  Split-second  decisions, 
which  all  of  us  sometimes  have  to  make, 
can  be  more  safely  made  if  there  have 
been  set  up  beforehand  some  "musts" 
and  some  "must  nots."  In  this  day 
of  glamor,  enticement,  pressure,  new 
temptations,  in  this  day  of  moral  laxity 
when  more  and  more  are  feeling  less  and 
less  the  individual  and  personal  re- 
sponsibility for  wrongdoing,  it  is  im- 
perative that  each  of  us  develops  a  firm 
desire  to  choose  the  right  regardless  of 
the  circumstances. 

Someone  has  aptly  said:  "Good  char- 
acter is  determined  by  what  you  stand 
for,  not  by  what  you  fall  for."  Why 
does  the  Lord,  through  his  servants, 
constantly  admonish  us  to  choose  the 
right  and  to  keep  his  commandments? 
Simply  because  he  is  our  Father,  and 
he  wishes  us  to  be  led  into  eternal  hap- 
piness. He  wants  us  to  be  free  by 
avoiding  the  bondage  of  sin  and  of 
wrongdoing.  His  commandments  are 
given  to  help  us,  not  to  hinder  us.  He 
would  impose  nothing  upon  us  except 
it  be  for  our  good.  He  wishes  to  assist 
us  through  these  commandments,  which 
are  principles  by  which  we  must  learn 
to  keep  in  order  to  find  joy  and  peace, 
rather  than  regret  and  remorse. 

"Be  faithful  and  diligent  in  keeping 
my  commandments  and  I  will  encircle 
thee  in  my  arms  of  love,"  the  Lord  tells 
us.  Why  are  your  parents  so  deeply 
concerned  over  you,  their  boys  and  girls, 
hoping  and  praying  constantly  for  your 
welfare?  Because  they  love  you;  because 
they  realize  that  there  is  in  the  world 
a  force  of  evil  just  as  certain  as  there 
is  being  directed  a  work  of  righteous- 
ness, and  that  between  those  two  forces 


First  Day 

there  is  an  eternal  conflict  with  a  human 
soul  as  the  stake. 

The  Prophet  Mormon  had  this  in 
mind  when  he  wrote  these  marvelous 
words: 

Wherefore,  all  things  which  are  good 
cometh  of  God;  and  that  which  is  evil 
cometh  of  the  devil;  for  the  devil  is  an 
enemy  unto  God,  and  fighteth  against  him 
continually,  and  inviteth  and  enticeth  to 
sin,  and  to  do  that  which  is  evil  continually. 

But  behold,  that  which  is  of  God  in- 
viteth and  enticeth  to  do  good  continually; 
wherefore,  every  thing  which  inviteth  and 
enticeth  to  do  good,  and  to  love  God,  and  to 
serve  him,  is  inspired  of  God.  (Moroni 
7:12-13.) 

My,  what  a  revelation  that  is!  Only 
when  the  spirit  yields  to  the  body  has 
the  devil  power  to  overcome  the  spirit 
and  prevail.  The  Adversary  lives!  He 
is  not  dead!  He  is  active.  He  is  power- 
ful, even  though  his  power  is  limited. 
I  noted  last  night  a  statement  of  Presi- 
dent Brigham  Young  that  I  would  like 
to  read  in  regard  to  this: 

The  adversary  presents  his  principles  and 
arguments  in  the  most  approved  style,  and 
in  the  most  winning  tone,  attended  with 
the  most  graceful  attitudes;  and  he  is  very 
careful  to  ingratiate  himself  into  the  favor 
of  the  powerful  and  influential  of  mankind, 
uniting  himself  with  popular  parties,  float- 
ing into  offices  of  trust  and  emolument  by 
pandering  to  popular  feeling,  though  it 
should  seriously  wrong  and  oppress  the  in- 
nocent. (Discourses  of  Brigham  Young,  page 
69.) 

Satan  is  cunning.  I  will  never  forget 
what  Brother  Thomas  E.  McKay  said 
in  an  address  from  this  pulpit,  "We  do 
not  lose  our  faith  by  a  blowout — just  by 
slow  leaks."  That  is  the  way  the  Ad- 
versary works.  The  Book  of  Mormon 
makes  the  statement  that  he  ensnares 
us,  and  if  we  do  not  repent,  he  "leads 
us  carefully  down  to  hell."  He  never 
jerks,  just  rather  eases  us  along,  unless 
we  turn  from  the  path  of  wrongdoing. 

Your  parents,  my  young  brothers  and 
sisters,  do  not  wish  their  association 
with  you  to  end  with  this  life,  but  they 
realize  that  now  is  the  time  and  the 
place  and  the  opportunity  to  prepare  for 
that  grand  reunion  beyond  the  grave. 
A  week  or  so  ago  a  young  couple  came 
to  the  temple  and  received  their  endow- 
ments and  were  sealed  in  holy  matri- 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 


37 


mony.  In  the  group  that  met  with  them 
in  the  sealing  room  were  represented 
three  generations  on  each  side.  That, 
it  seems  to  me,  is  as  it  should  be.  Fami- 
lies should  participate  as  families  in 
holy  places.  If  we  expect  to  be  together 
as  families  in  the  next  life,  and  it  seems 
to  me  that  is  the  center  and  the  objec- 
tive of  the  whole,  then  it  is  best  and 
well  that  we  get  together  as  families  in 
these  holy  temples  under  such  circum- 
stances as  that. 

The  overwhelming  desire  that  should 
be  in  the  mind  of  every  young  boy  and 
every  young  girl  as  he  or  she  moves  into 
young  manhood  and  womanhood  is  to 
prepare  himself  or  herself  each  day  that 
he  or  she  lives  to  be  worthy  of  entering 
into  the  house  of  the  Lord,  and  there 
receive  the  fabulous  blessings  that  the 
Lord  extends  to  those  who  desire  them. 
How  glorious  is  the  doctrine  that  man 
was  in  the  beginning  with  God!  How 
glorious  is  the  doctrine  that  families 
may  be  perpetuated  forever!  Of  all  the 
people  upon  the  earth  today  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  should  manifest  the  greatest 
faith  in  God — not  because  we  are  a 
more  gifted  people  or  a  better  race,  but 
because  through  the  goodness  of  God 
we  have  received  evidence  upon  evi- 
dence of  our  divine  origin,  and  the 
knowledge  that  we  are  indeed  his  chil- 
dren. 


Not  only  the  Bible  but  also  modern 
scriptures  have  revealed  to  us  great  and 
fundamental  truths  which  are  not  gen- 
erally understood  as  to  the  origin  and 
destiny  of  man.  In  addition,  appear- 
ances of  the  Lord  himself  and  appear- 
ances of  his  heavenly  messengers  have 
added  to  the  faith  and  knowledge  of  this 
people.  I  pray,  brothers  and  sisters,  that 
all  of  us,  especially  those  who  are  com- 
ing into  manhood  and  womanhood,  may 
give  sober  thought  to  these  glorious  prin- 
ciples and  be  able  to  build  our  lives 
upon  the  sure  foundation  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  "whereon  if  men  build 
they  cannot  fall." 

I  testify  that  he  is  real,  he  is  the 
Savior.  He  was  resurrected  and  he  lives, 
and  this  is  his  plan  for  happiness  and 
exaltation,  and  I  do  it  humbly  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Lord.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen  has  just 
spoken  to  us.  He  is  Assistant  to  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  also  presi- 
dent of  the  Salt  Lake  Temple.  Elder 
George  Q.  Morris  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  will  now  speak  to  us,  and  he 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  LeGrand 
Richards. 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  sin- 
cerely pray  that  the  Lord  will  direct  me 
by  his  spirit  to  say  what  I  should  say 
today.  I  had  been  thinking  along  lines 
similar  to  what  the  last  two  brethren 
have  been  speaking  of.  We  have 
avoided  a  head-on  collision,  but  we 
have  been  pretty  close  to  it. 

I  have  had  in  mind  a  statement  of 
Job:  "Man  that  is  born  of  a  woman  is 
of  few  days,  and  full  of  trouble."  (Job 
14:1.)  I  suppose  at  times  we  all  may 
have  that  feeling  ourselves.  That  leads 
to  the  matter  of  troubles  and  evils  and 
sins  and  adversity  which  have  been  re- 
ferred to  today.  I  rejoice  greatly  in  the 
revelations  that  God  has  given  us  so 
that  we  will  understand  life,  and  if  we 


can  get  the  right  relation  to  sin  and  ad- 
versity and  its  opposites  we  can  intelli- 
gently understand  life.  There  has 
always  been  a  debate  through  the  cen- 
turies as  to  what  sin  is,  and  more  par- 
ticularly why  there  should  be  so  much 
sin  in  the  world.  Some  who  believe 
in  God  think  that  it  is  only  an  illusion. 
Some  faiths  are  based  on  the  belief  that 
there  is  no  sin — that  it  is  only  an  idea 
in  the  mind.  Others  who  believe  in  a 
God  think  that  perhaps  he  did  not  quite 
make  a  perfect  job  of  the  creation,  and 
there  are  other  various  ideas  advanced 
as  the  reasons  for  sin.  The  sin  and 
suffering  in  the  world,  says  the  atheist, 
proves  there  is  no  God. 
It  has  been  a  great  satisfaction  to  me 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  4 

just  to  look  over  the  Lord's  explanation 
of  why  there  is  sin,  and  I  want  to  bring 
to  you  the  few  short  sentences  in  which 
he  explains  why  sin  is  in  the  world.  I 
think  it  will  be  enlightening  to  us  and 
enable  us  to  have  the  right  understand- 
ing regarding  this  matter. 
He  said  to  his  disciples: 

Woe  unto  the  world  because  of  offences! 
for  it  must  needs  be  that  offences  come;  but 
woe  to  that  man  by  whom  the  offence 
cometh!  (Matt.  18:7.) 

This  is  a  very  definite  and  clear 
declaration  so  far  as  we  are  concerned 
that  in  the  world  there  must  be  offenses. 
There  must  be  sin  in  the  world,  but  the 
Lord  blocks  any  illogical  reasoning  that 
because  there  is  sin  we  cannot  be 
blamed  for  having  partaken  of  it  with 
his  statement:  "but  woe  to  that  man  by 
whom  the  offence  cometh!" 

He  also  says,  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  29:39,  "And  it  must  needs 
be  that  the  devil  should  tempt  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  .  .  ."  That  is  a  necessary 
situation  in  our  lives.  Then  we  are 
told  what  happened  when  transgression 
occurred.  Because  of  Adam's  transgres- 
sion, the  Lord  said:  ".  .  .  cursed  shall  be 
the  ground  for  thy  sake;  in  sorrow  shalt 
thou  eat  of  it  all  the  days  of  thy  life." 
(Moses  4:23.)  I  think  we  should  bear 
in  mind  that  the  Lord  said  for  the 
sake  of  Adam  he  would  curse  the  land, 
and  he  followed  this  by  saying, 

By  the  sweat  of  thy  face  shalt  thou  eat 
bread,  until  thou  shalt  return  unto  the 
ground — for  thou  shalt  surely  die — for  out 
of  it  wast  thou  taken:  for  dust  thou  wast, 
and  unto  dust  shalt  thou  return.  (Ibid., 
4:25.) 

Now  this  seems  to  paint  a  very 
gloomy  picture,  and  some  people  do  not 
go  much  farther  than  this,  and  try  to 
blame  Adam  for  the  sins  and  troubles 
that  come  into  their  lives.  I  just  want 
to  say  here  in  passing  that  I  hope  none 
of  us — no  member  of  this  Church — 
will  speak  lightly  of  Adam,  an  august 
and  glorious  personage  close  to  the 
throne  of  God,  the  father  of  our  race, 
and  identified  as  Michael,  the  great 
archangel.  We  should  think  of  him 
and  speak  of  him  with  love  and  with 
reverence,  and  not  tolerate  any  other 
attitude  in  our  presence. 


First  Day 

That  gloomy  picture  does  look  seri- 
ous, and  life  is  serious,  but  the  Lord 
explains  further: 

And  it  must  needs  be  that  the  devil 
should  tempt  the  children  of  men,  or  they 
could  not  be  agents  unto  themselves;  for  if 
they  never  should  have  bitter  they  could 
not  know  the  sweet—  (D  &  C  29:39.) 

This  is  a  clear  and  definite  statement 
that  I  think  we  must  accept  literally. 

Further,  the  Lord  said,  after  Adam 
had  transgressed:  "And  I,  the  Lord  God, 
said  unto  mine  Only  Begotten:  Behold, 
the  man  is  become  as  one  of  us  to  know 
good  and  evil;"  (Moses  4:28)  testifying 
that  through  his  transgression  Adam 
had  attained  a  knowledge  of  good  and 
evil  which  he  did  not  have  before. 

Then  the  Father  gives  further  in- 
structions to  Adam: 

And  the  Lord  spake  unto  Adam,  saying: 
Inasmuch  as  thy  children  are  conceived  in 
sin,  even  so  when  they  begin  to  grow  up, 
sin  conceiveth  in  their  hearts,  and  they 
taste  the  bitter,  that  they  may  know  to  prize 
the  good.  (Ibid.,  6:55.) 

This  being  "conceived  in  sin,"  as 
I  understand  it,  is  only  that  they  are 
in  the  midst  of  sin.  They  come  into  the 
world  where  sin  is  prevalent,  and  it  will 
enter  into  their  hearts,  but  it  will  lead 
them  "to  taste  the  bitter,  that  they  may 
know  to  prize  the  good."  And  then 
with  further  emphasis  on  the  matter  of 
agency,  the  Lord  says,  ".  .  .  it  is  given 
to  them  to  know  good  from  evil;  where- 
fore they  are  agents  unto  themselves. 
(Ibid.,  6:56.) 

This  matter  of  agency  is  the  very  es- 
sence of  our  existence.  The  Lord  said 
unto  Enoch: 

Behold  these  thy  brethren;  they  are  the 
workmanship  of  mine  own  hands,  and  I 
gave  unto  them  their  knowledge,  in  the  day 
I  created  them;  and  in  the  Garden  of  Eden, 
gave  I  unto  man  his  agency.  (Ibid.,  7:32.) 

Also  the  revelation  in  the  93rd  sec- 
tion of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
emphasizes  again  this  matter  of  agency. 
We  are  intelligences,  and  the  Lord  says, 

All  truth  is  independent  in  that  sphere  in 
which  God  has  placed  it,  to  act  for  itself, 
as  all  intelligence  also;  otherwise  there  is 
no  existence.  (D  &  C  93:30.) 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 


39 


If  we  take  away  their  free  agency  we 
nullify  the  purpose  of  the  existence  of 
mankind  in  the  world.  Satan  attempted 
to  do  that. 

By  these  revelations  we  see  why  sin 
is  in  the  world  and  adversities  and  evils 
of  various  kinds.  We  can  picture  the 
plight  of  Adam  and  Eve.  They  had 
been  condemned  to  sorrows,  woes, 
troubles,  and  labor  and  they  were  cast 
out  from  the  presence  of  God,  and 
death  had  been  declared  to  be  their 
fate.  A  pathetic  picture,  indeed.  But 
now  a  most  important  thing  happened. 
Adam  and  Eve  had  explained  to  them 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  What  would 
be  their  reaction?  When  the  Lord  ex- 
plained this  to  them,  that  a  redemption 
should  come  through  Jesus  Christ,  the 
Only  Begotten  of  the  Father,  Adam  ex- 
claimed: 

Blessed  be  the  name  of  God,  for  because 
of  my  transgression  my  eyes  are  opened, 
and  in  this  life  I  shall  have  joy,  and  again 
in  the  flesh  shall  I  see  God.  (Moses  5:10.) 

And  what  was  the  response  of  Eve, 
his  wife.  She 

heard  all  of  these  things,  and  was  glad, 
saying:  Were  it  not  for  our  transgression  we 
never  should  have  had  seed,  and  never 
should  have  known  good  and  evil,  and  the 
joy  of  our  redemption,  and  .  .  .  eternal  life. 
(Ibid.,  5:11.) 

There  is  the  key  to  the  question  of 
evil.  If  we  cannot  be  good,  except  as  we 
resist  and  overcome  evil,  then  evil  must 
be  present  to  be  resisted. 

So  this  earth  life  is  set  up  according 
to  true  principles,  and  these  conditions 
that  followed  the  transgression  were  not, 
in  the  usual  sense,  penalties  that  were 
inflicted  upon  us.  All  these  that  I  have 
named  to  you  that  seem  to  be  sad  in- 
flictions of  punishment,  sorrow,  and 
trouble  are  in  the  end  not  that.  They 
are  blessings.  We  have  attained  a 
knowledge  of  good  and  evil,  the  power 
to  prize  the  sweet,  to  become  agents 
unto  ourselves,  the  power  to  obtain  re- 
demption and  eternal  life.  These  things 
had  their  origin  in  this  transgression. 
The  Lord  has  set  the  earth  up  so  we 
have  to  labor  if  we  are  going  to  live, 
which  preserves  us  from  the  curse  of 
idleness  and  indolence;  and  though  the 


Lord  condemns  us  to  death — mortal 
death — it  is  one  of  the  greatest  blessings 
that  comes  to  us  here  because  it  is  the 
doorway  to  immortality,  and  we  can 
never  attain  immortality  without  dying. 

So  these  are  all  real  blessings.  We 
come  to  the  earth  with  all  these  condi- 
tions arranged  as  they  are  so  that  we 
have  to  struggle  constantly  against  evil, 
struggle  to  preserve  our  lives,  struggle 
for  everything  of  true  value — that  is  the 
thing  for  us  to  understand — this  is  the 
course  of  life  that  is  most  desirable,  and 
for  our  good.  We  have  no  need  to  find 
fault  with  these  conditions.  The  Lord 
has  ordained  them  all  for  our  welfare 
and  happiness.  The  truth  as  I  under- 
stand and  feel  about  it  is  simply  that 
circumstances  placed  Adam  in  a  position 
where  by  a  technical  transgression  he 
could  come  into  mortal  life,  moving  out 
of  immortality  into  these  earth  condi- 
tions for  his  blessing,  for  the  blessing 
of  the  race,  without  which  no  immortal- 
ity and  eternal  life  and  exaltation  could 
ever  come.  And  in  doing  this,  also,  of 
course,  his  body,  taken  from  the  earth, 
was  made  mortal — an  absolute  essential. 
There  is  no  salvation  or  exaltation  except 
through  the  possession  of  a  body  of 
flesh  and  blood. 

In  conclusion  I  want  to  give  this  in- 
spired declaration  by  the  Prophet  Lehi. 

For  it  must  needs  be,  that  there  is  an  op- 
position in  all  things.  If  not  so,  .  .  .  right- 
eousness could  not  be  brought  to  pass, 
neither  wickedness,  neither  holiness  nor 
misery,  neither  good  nor  bad.  Wherefore, 
all  things  must  needs  be  a  compound  in 
one;  .  .  . 

And  now,  behold,  if  Adam  had  not  trans- 
gressed he  would  not  have  fallen,  but  he 
would  have  remained  in  the  garden  of 
Eden.  And  all  things  which  were  created 
must  have  remained  in  the  same  state  in 
which  they  were  after  they  were  created; 
and  they  must  have  remained  forever,  and 
had  no  end. 

And  they  would  have  had  no  children; 
therefore  they  would  have  remained  in  a 
state  of  innocence,  having  no  joy,  for  they 
knew  no  misery;  doing  no  good,  for  they 
knew  no  sin. 

But  behold,  all  things  have  been  done  in 
the  wisdom  of  him  who  knoweth  all  things. 

Adam  fell  that  men  might  be;  and  men 
are,  that  they  might  have  joy.  (2  Nephi 
2:11,  22-25.) 


40 

Friday,  April  4 

The  answer  to  all  the  problems  in  the 
world  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
which  enables  us  to  overcome  all  ad- 
versities, sin,  and  death,  and  go  back 
into  the  presence  of  God  fit  to  dwell  in 
his  presence,  through  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Redeemer. 

I  bear  this  humble  witness  that  this 
is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  organized 
by  him  personally;  that  President  David 
O.  McKay  is  conducting  the  affairs  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Oay 

this  Church  as  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
directs  him,  and  I  bear  this  witness  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  George  Q.  Morris,  member  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  Our  con- 
cluding speaker  will  be  Elder  LeGrand 
Richards  of  the  same  Council. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  rejoice,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  in 
the  privilege  of  attending  this  confer- 
ence with  you  and  with  my  Brethren 
here  on  this  stand.  I  love  them,  I  love 
the  Saints. 

I  thought  when  we  listened  to  the 
report  of  the  growth  of  the  Church, 
how  your  hearts  must  rejoice!  When 
I  think  of  our  visits  to  your  stakes  and 
your  missions  and  what  you  and  your 
families  are  contributing  to  the  growth 
of  the  Church,  surely  that  is  what  we 
labor  for  with  all  our  hearts  and  souls 
and  that  is  what  we  pray  for!  The 
Lord  is  blessing  the  efforts  of  the  Saints 
throughout  the  world.  May  he  con- 
tinue to  do  so. 

I  thought  that  in  the  few  moments  I 
have  here  today  I  would  like  to  make  a 
few  comments  on  a  question  that  was 
asked  me  in  a  letter  I  received  a  few 
weeks  ago  from  a  nonmember  of  the 
Church  whom  I  met  on  one  of  my  visits 
in  the  Church.  The  question  was  this: 
"Please,  sir,  tell  me  why  you  think 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God." 
I  have  preached  on  that  subject  for  fifty 
years,  and  the  more  I  do  the  more  my 
heart  is  made  to  rejoice.  I  make  these 
comments: 

I  believe  the  Bible  to  be  the  word  of 
God.  I  believe,  as  has  already  been 
stated  here  today,  that  God  had  a  plan 
when  he  created  this  earth,  when  he 
placed  man  upon  it,  just  as  definitely  as 
any  architect  ever  draws  a  plan  for  a 
building  before  it  is  constructed. 

I  believe  the  words  of  Isaiah  when  he 
said  that  the  Lord  declared  the  end 
from  the  beginning.  I  think  it  is  our 
duty  to  understand  that  plan,  to  study 


it,  that  we  might  know  and  understand 
the  purposes  of  the  Lord  in  the  creation 
of  this  world  and  what  is  yet  to  transpire 
before  the  coming  of  Christ,  our  Lord, 
to  rule  and  reign  as  King  of  kings  and 
Lord  of  lords,  as  he  and  the  prophets 
have  declared. 

I  believe  the  words  of  the  Apostle 
Peter  when  he  said  that 

We  have  also  a  more  sure  word  of  proph- 
ecy; whereunto  ye  do  well  that  ye  take  heed, 
as  unto  a  light  that  shineth  in  a  dark  place, 
until  the  day  dawn,  and  the  day  star  arise 
in  your  hearts: 

Knowing  this  first,  that  no  prophecy  of. 
the  scripture  is  of  any  private  interpreta- 
tion. 

For  the  prophecy  came  not  in  old  time  by 
the  will  of  man:  but  holy  men  of  God  spake 
as  they  were  moved  by  the  Holy  Ghost. 
(II  Peter  1:19-21.) 

I  believe  that  the  word  of  prophecy  is 
a  more  sure  word  than  anything  else  we 
have  in  this  world. 

I  like  the  words  of  the  Savior  on  that 
same  subject  as  he  walked  beside  his 
disciples  on  the  way  to  Emmaus  when 
he  said: 

.  .  .  O  fools,  and  slow  of  heart  to  believe 
all  that  the  prophets  have  spoken.  (Luke 
24:25.) 

And  then  beginning  with  Moses  and 
the  prophets,  he  showed  them  how  that 
in  all  things  they  testified  of  him. 

Then  opened  he  their  understanding,  that 
they  might  understand  the  scriptures.  (Ihid., 
24:45.) 

Just  as  the  prophets  of  old  declared 
the  coming  of  Christ  in  the  Meridian 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


41 


of  Time  and  gave  the  signs  that  would 
accompany  his  coming,  even  to  the  cast- 
ing of  lots  for  his  raiment  when  he  was 
crucified,  so  have  the  prophets  looked 
forward  to  the  latter  days  when  he 
would  come  in  the  clouds  of  heaven, 
and  so  have  they  proclaimed  the  events 
that  would  precede  his  coming.  When 
he  was  here  upon  this  earth,  he  was  al- 
ways looking  forward  to  his  final  com- 
ing when  he  would  come  in  power  to 
reign  among  the  children  of  men  as 
King  of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords,  and 
we  should  know  something  of  the  events 
that  are  to  transpire  to  prepare  the  way 
for  his  coming. 

I  like  the  words  of  the  prophet  Amos 
in  which  he  said, 

Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  nothing,  but 
he  revealeth  his  secret  unto  his  servants  the 
prophets.  (Amos  3:7.) 

Never  has  there  been  a  dispensation 
of  God's  truth  in  the  earth  without  a 
prophet  at  its  head  except  for  the  brief 
time  that  Jesus  labored  among  men  and 
stood  as  the  head,  and  he  called  his 
Twelve,  and  as  Paul  tells  us: 

And  he  gave  some,  apostles;  and  some, 
prophets;  and  some,  evangelists;  and  some, 
pastors  and  teachers; 

For  the  perfecting  of  the  saints,  for  the 
work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  edifying  of  the 
body  of  Christ: 

Till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of  the  faith, 
and  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Son  of  God,  .  .  . 

That  we  henceforth  be  no  more  children, 
tossed  to  and  fro,  and  carried  about  with 
every  wind  of  doctrine,  .  .  .  (Eph.  4:11-14.) 

You  only  need  to  look  at  the  world 
today  to  know  how  we  are  becoming 
more  divided  year  after  year  instead  of 
more  united  because  the  apostles  and 
prophets  whom  God  put  in  his  Church 
to  bring  unity  of  the  faith  were  done 
away  with. 

I  would  like  to  refer  to  a  few  proph- 
ecies of  the  things  that  are  to  transpire 
before  he  comes.  I  quote  first  from  the 
third  chapter  of  Malachi,  the  first  verse: 

Behold,  I  will  send  my  messenger,  and  he 
shall  prepare  the  way  before  me:  and  the 
Lord,  whom  ye  seek,  shall  suddenly  come 
to  his  temple,  even  the  messenger  of  the 
covenant,  whom  ye  delight  in:  behold,  he 
shall  come,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts.  (Mai. 
3:1.) 


When  he  sends  his  messenger,  who 
could  he  be  other  than  a  prophet  of 
God,  since  God  will  do  nothing  but  he 
revealeth  his  secret  unto  his  servants 
the  prophets?  And  if  he  sends  his  mes- 
senger to  prepare  the  way  for  his  com- 
ing, that  he  may  come  swiftly  to  his 
temple,  we  could  expect  that  all  the 
promises  of  the  prophets  pertaining  to 
the  preparation  for  his  coming  would 
be  fulfilled  under  the  direction  of  this 
messenger.  And  these  promises  could 
not  be  fulfilled  except  there  was  a  proph- 
et unto  whom  God  could  reveal  his 
mind  and  will  and  give  wisdom  beyond 
the  wisdom  of  man  to  accomplish  all 
the  prophets  have  foretold. 

Briefly,  let  us  refer  to  the  promise 
given  by  Daniel  in  his  interpretation  of 
Nebuchadnezzar's  dream.  He  had  al- 
ready forgotten  his  dream,  and  he  called 
for  the  wise  men  and  the  soothsayers 
and  astrologers,  and  none  of  them  could 
tell  him  his  dream.  Then  he  sent  for 
the  prophet  in  Israel,  and  Daniel  took 
it  up  with  the  Lord.  And  he  said  that 
there  was  a  God  in  heaven  who  maketh 
known  Nebuchadnezzar's  dream  and  the 
interpretation  thereof.  Then  Daniel 
told  him  of  the  rise  and  fall  of  the  king- 
doms of  this  world  until  the  latter  days 
when  the  God  of  heaven  would  set  up 
a  kingdom  that  would  never  be  de- 
stroyed or  given  to  another  people,  but 
it  would  go  forth  until  it  would  become 
as  a  great  mountain  and  fill  the  whole 
earth,  and  it  would  stand  forever,  until 
one  like  the  Son  of  Man  would  come  in 
the  clouds  of  heaven,  to  the  Ancient  of 
days. 

And  there  was  given  him  dominion,  and 
glory,  and  a  kingdom,  that  all  people,  na- 
tions, and  languages,  should  serve  him:  his 
dominion  is  an  everlasting  dominion  which 
shall  not  pass  away,  and  his  kingdom  that 
which  shall  not  be  destroyed.  (Dan.  7:14.) 

Why  do  we  read  these  things  in  the 
scriptures  if  they  are  not  meant  to  be 
fulfilled?  How  can  the  world  accept  the 
scriptures  and  then  believe  that  all  these 
things  can  transpire  without  a  prophet 
of  the  Living  God  to  whom  God  can 
reveal  his  mind  and  will? 

I  bear  you  witness  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  the  messenger  sent,  that  he  was 
the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  in 
setting  up  this  kingdom. 


42 

Friday,  April  4 

There  is  not  time  to  go  into  details, 
but  anyone  with  a  fair  mind  who  will 
analyze  the  organization  of  this  Church 
and  what  it  is  accomplishing  and  the 
great  order  of  the  priesthood  (for  every 
man  and  every  man's  son  can  bear  the 
priesthood  of  God  and  become  partners 
with  him  in  the  building  of  his  king- 
dom), could  not  hope  to  find  anything 
else  to  compare  with  it  in  all  the  world. 
There  just  is  not  such  an  organization. 

In  the  olden  days  they  used  to  liken 
this  Church  to  the  German  army.  You 
know  what  happened  to  that,  but  the 
Church  is  still  going  on.  One  of  our 
Presidents  of  the  United  States  made  the 
statement  not  long  ago  that  the  great- 
est organization  in  the  world  for  the 
development  of  men  and  women  was 
the  Mormon  Church.  And  one  of  our 
great  writers  recently  said  he  considered 
it  the  most  dynamic  church  in  America. 
We  know  there  is  no  other  organization 
like  it  in  this  world,  and  any  thoughtful 
person  who  will  investigate  will  come 
to  that  conclusion;  and  that  is  one  of 
the  tangible  evidences  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  God,  that  he  was  the 
instrument  in  the  hands  of  our  Father 
in  heaven  in  setting  up  his  kingdom  in 
the  earth. 

If  we  could  but  take  time  to  go  into 
some  of  the  achievements  of  the  Church 
— take,  for  instance,  our  welfare  pro- 
gram. Of  those  who  come  here  and  see 
what  we  are  doing,  one  man  wrote  re- 
cently, "Why  aren't  we  all  Mormons?" 
Another  wrote,  "I  guess  I  am  on  the 
wrong  boat."  The  world  begins  to  see 
that  we  have  a  program  the  like  of 
which  cannot  be  found  anywhere  in 
this  world  today. 

Then  we  come  to  our  youth  program, 
and  those  who  come  among  us  bear  wit- 
ness that  there  is  nothing  like  it  in  the 
world.  We  know  that  is  true. 

Then  we  come  to  the  great  mission- 
ary program  of  this  Church,  and  there 
is  not  anything  like  it  in  all  this  world. 
I  tell  you,  the  sacrifices  that  men  and 
women  and  their  children  make  to  help 
carry  this  gospel  message  to  every  land 
and  every  clime  must  be  a  most  wonder- 
ful, acceptable  thing  to  our  Father  in 
heaven  because  he  has  indicated  his  in- 
terest in  carrying  the  gospel  to  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

So  I  give  to  my  friends  this  great  or- 
ganization as  one  of  the  tangible 
evidences  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet  of  God. 

I  would  like  to  refer  briefly  to  the 
promise  in  the  fourth  chapter  of  Mala- 
chi: 

Behold,  I  will  send  you  Elijah  the  proph- 
et before  the  coming  of  the  great  and  dread- 
ful day  of  the  Lord: 

And  he  shall  turn  the  heart  of  the  fathers 
to  the  children,  and  the  heart  of  the  children 
to  their  fathers,  lest  I  come  and  smite  the 
earth  with  a  curse.  (Mai.  4:5-6.) 

Does  the  world  believe  this  promise? 
And  if  Elijah  were  to  come,  to  whom 
would  he  come  other  than  to  a  prophet 
of  God,  since  God  will  do  nothing  but 
he  revealeth  his  secret  unto  his  servants 
the  prophets? 

We  bear  witness  that  Elijah  has  come. 
You  heard  something  of  our  microfilm- 
ing program  here  today.  Since  Elijah 
came,  there  has  been  a  wave  sweep  over 
this  world  in  the  interests  of  genealogy 
and  record  keeping  such  as  the  world 
has  never  dreamed  of  in  years  before. 
We  have  referred  to  the  promise  of  the 
Lord  through  Malachi  (Ibid.,  3:1)  that 
he  would  send  his  messenger  to  prepare 
the  way  before  him  that  he  might  come 
suddenly  to  his  temple.  How  can  he 
come  to  his  temple  except  a  temple  is 
built  in  the  earth  to  prepare  for  his 
coming,  and  who  could  build  such  a 
temple  except  a  prophet  of  God? 

Now,  compare  that  with  the  work  of 
Elijah  who  brought  the  keys  of  the  great 
temple  program,  and  then  the  words  of 
Isaiah  whom  the  Lord  permitted  to  look 
down  through  the  stream  of  time  for 
three  thousand  years  and  who  saw  the 
last  days  with  the  mountain  of  the 
Lord's  house  established  in  the  top  of 
the  mountains  and  exalted  above  the 
hills,  and  that  all  nations  would  flow 
unto  it  and  say: 

...  Come  ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the 
mountain  of  the  Lord,  to  the  house  of  the 
God  of  Jacob;  and  he  will  teach  us  of  his 
ways,  and  we  will  walk  in  his  paths:  .  .  . 
(Isa.  2:3.) 

You  people  who  are  here,  and  your 
parents  before  you,  have  been  gathered 
from  the  nations  to  come  to  the  house 


ELDER  LEGRA1 

of  the  Lord  in  the  top  of  the  mountains. 
That  could  not  have  transpired  without 
a  prophet  unto  whom  God  could  reveal 
his  mind  and  his  will  and  give  instruc- 
tions as  to  what  temples  are  for;  and 
this  all  is  a  part  of  the  work  of  Elijah. 
This  temple  standing  on  this  block  is 
another  tangible  evidence  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God. 

Let  me  give  you  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
No  man  can  believe  the  Bible  and  be- 
lieve the  words  of  the  prophets  without 
knowing  that  there  is  a  companion  vol- 
ume of  scripture  that  God  the  Eternal 
Father  commanded  should  be  written 
and  declared  that  he  would  bring  forth 
and  join  to  the  stick  of  Judah,  which 
is  the  Bible,  making  them  one  in  his 
hands,  and  one  before  his  eyes. 

How  could  he  do  that  without  a 
prophet  of  God  to  bring  forth  that 
marvelous  record  and  join  it  to  the  rec- 
ord of  Judah?  We  have  that  record 
before  us.  It  has  been  before  the  world 
now  for  one  hundred  and  thirty  years, 
and  people  by  the  thousands  and  hun- 
dreds of  thousands  have  borne  witness 
that  the  promise  contained  in  that  book 
has  been  realized  in  their  behalf  in  that 
God  has  manifested  unto  them  the 
truth  of  the  words  of  that  book. 

In  Washington  just  recently,  while 
holding  a  missionary  meeting,  a  young 
mother  of  two  children,  a  new  convert 
to  the  Church,  was  asked  to  say  a  few 
words,  and  when  she  stood  up,  she  said, 

The  missionaries  promised  me  if  I  would 
read  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  ask  God  the 
Eternal  Father,  that  he  would  manifest  the 
truth  of  it  unto  me  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  I  did  that.  I  got  down  on  my 
knees,  and  then  I  read  that  book,  and  my 
whole  soul  was  illuminated,  and  I  knew  that 
that  book  was  divine. 

This  is  another  tangible  evidence  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God  and 
one  that  the  world  has  not  yet  been 
able  to  account  for  except  as  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  declared. 

In  closing  I  leave  you  this  one 
thought:  We  have  been  told  that  our 
convert  baptisms  last  year  reached  near- 
ly 32,000.  If  anybody  who  wants  to 
know  the  truth  would  go  out  into  these 
missions  and  interview  those  men  and 
women  who  have  left  the  teachings  of 


<D  RICHARDS  43 

their  parents  and  joined  this  Church,  he 
would  find  that  they  will  testify  that 
their  membership  in  this  Church  has 
literally  changed  their  lives. 

One  convert  put  it  in  words  like  this: 
"When  I  think  of  who  I  was  when  the 
gospel  found  me  and  what  I  am  today, 
I  cannot  believe  I  am  the  same  man.  I 
do  not  think  the  same  thoughts.  I  do 
not  have  the  same  habits.  I  do  not 
have  the  same  ambitions  and  desires  in 
life."  Membership  in  this  Church  will 
make  bad  men  good  and  good  men 
better. 

That  is  what  the  Lord  meant  when  he 
said  we  were  to  be  born  again.  So  I 
say  to  you  that  it  is  not  what  people 
know  about  this  Church  that  holds 
them  out,  it  is  what  they  do  not  know 
about  it,  because  it  is  God's  eternal 
truth,  and  that  is  another  of  the  tangi- 
ble evidences  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet  of  God.  I  bear  you  my  solemn 
witness  that  I  know  it  in  every  fibre  of 
my  being,  and  I  pray  God  to  bless  you 
all,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  who  has  just  spoken  to  us  is 
Elder  LeGrand  Richards,  a  member  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

A  meeting  devoted  to  the  work  of 
the  stake  and  foreign  missions  will  be 
held  in  the  Tabernacle  this  evening  at 
seven  o'clock.  Mission  presidents  in 
attendance  at  the  General  Conference, 
all  stake  mission  presidents  and  stake 
missionaries,  bishoprics  and  the  presi- 
dencies of  stakes,  are  requested  to  at- 
tend this  meeting.  An  invitation  is  ex- 
tended, also,  to  members  of  High  Coun- 
cils, presidents  of  Seventies  quorums, 
and  the  General  Boards  of  auxiliary 
organizations — this  evening  at  seven 
o'clock. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  now  favor  us  with 
"Praise  Ye  the  Lord,"  conducted  by 
Elder  Don  L.  Earl.  The  closing  prayer 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  Orlando  T. 
Barrus,  president  of  the  North  Tooele 
Stake,  after  which  this  Conference  will 
stand  adjourned  until  ten  o'clock  to- 
morrow morning. 

We  wish  to  say  in  behalf  of  you  who 
have  enjoyed  the  presence  and  the  sing- 


44 

Saturday,  April  5 

ing  of  this  lovely  chorus,  that  we  hope 
the  joy  they  have  given  to  us  will  come 
back  into  their  own  hearts.  They  say 
that  all  that  you  send  in  the  hearts  of 
others  will  come  back  to  your  own.  We 
hope  you  had  the  joy  in  your  attend- 
ance at  the  Conference  that  you  have 
given  to  us.  We  thank  you  very  much 
for  coming  up  this  day,  missing  your 
classes  (laughter) — not  just  that — but 
you  have  been  really  spiritually  fed  as 
you  have  inspired  us  by  your  singing. 
We  are  proud  of  you  and  proud  of 
your  school. 

We  have  already  expressed  apprecia- 
tion for  these  flowers. 

An  agricultural  meeting,  sponsored 
by  the  General  Church  Welfare  Com- 
mittee, will  be  held  tomorrow  morning 
at  7:30  o'clock  in  the  Assembly  Hall. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

The  following  are  invited  to  attend: 
stake  presidents,  bishops  or  their  repre- 
sentatives, all  ward  and  stake  agricul- 
tural representatives,  and  others  inter- 
ested in  agriculture. 

We  shall  now  hear  "Praise  Ye  the 
Lord,"  by  the  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity Combined  Choruses,  and  Elder  Or- 
lando T.  Barrus  will  offer  the  bene- 
diction. 


Singing  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  "Praise  Ye 
The  Lord." 

President  Orlando  T.  Barrus  of  the 
North  Tooele  Stake  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock 
a.m.,  Saturday,  April  5. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  in  the  Taber- 
nacle Saturday  morning,  April  5,  at 
10:00  o'clock. 

Again  the  Tabernacle  was  filled  to 
overflowing  and  those  who  could  not 
find  accommodation  in  that  building 
listened  to  the  services  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  Barratt  Hall  as  they  were 
broadcast  by  television  from  the  Taber- 
nacle. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services. 

The  singing  for  this  session  was  fur- 
nished by  the  Combined  Choruses  of 
the  Logan  Latter-day  Saints  Institute 
and  the  Utah  State  University,  with 
James  L.  Bradley  conducting  and  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City  in  the  third  session  of 
the  One  Hundred  Twenty-Eighth  An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  All 
members  of  the  General  Authorities  are 
present.  We  welcome  all  present  here 
in  the  Tabernacle,  which  is  filled  to 
overflowing,  and  to  the  television  and 
radio  audience  we  also  extend  a  hearty 


welcome.  We  express  appreciation  for 
the  presence  of  state  officials  and  edu- 
cational leaders  in  our  own  state  and 
from  elsewhere. 

We  have  asked  for  a  report  and  you 
will  be  pleased  to  know  that  we  have 
with  us  our  fellow  worker,  Elder  Ezra 
Taft  Benson,  United  States  Secretary 
of  Agriculture;  Wallace  F.  Bennett, 
United  States  Senator;  William  A.  Daw- 
son, Congressman;  LaMont  Toronto, 
Secretary  of  State;  Adiel  F.  Stewart, 
Mayor  of  Salt  Lake  City;  Ernest  L. 
Wilkinson,  President  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University;  William  P.  Miller, 
President  of  Weber  College;  J.  Elliott 
Cameron,  Director  of  Snow  College; 
and  undoubtedly  others.  I  thought 
Senator  Watkins  was  here,  he  was  pres- 
ent at  other  sessions.  To  these  and 
others  who  have  probably  been  over- 
looked we  extend  welcome  and  appre- 
ciate your  confidence.  We  appreciate, 
too,  the  number  of  young  men  and 
young  women  students  of  the  colleges 
who  are  joining  us  this  morning. 

This  session  of  the  Conference  will 
be  broadcast  as  a  public  service  over 
television  and  radio  stations  throughout 
the  West.  We  again  express  apprecia- 
tion for  the  service  that  is  being  ren- 
dered by  the  owners  and  managers 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


45 


of  these  various  stations.  The  names 
of  the  stations  have  already  been  an- 
nounced prior  to  the  opening  of  this 
session.  These  services  are  also  being 
broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in 
Barratt  Hall  by  television. 

We  are  very  pleased  to  announce 
that  the  singing  for  this  session  will 
be  furnished  by  the  Combined  Choruses 
of  the  Logan  Latter-day  Saints  Institute 
and  Utah  State  University,  with  James 
L.  Bradley  conducting,  and  Frank  W. 
Asper  at  the  organ.  We  welcome  these 
young  people  and  rejoice  in  their  asso- 
ciation today  as  we  did  with  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  University  students  yester- 
day. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Combined  Choruses  of  Logan  Latter- 
day  Saints  Institute  and  Utah  State 
University  singing,  "Let  The  Moun- 
tains Shout  For  Joy,"  and  the  opening 
prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder  Edgar  T. 
Henderson,  president  of  the  Butte  Stake. 

Singing  by  the  Combined  Choruses, 
"Let  the  Mountains  Shout  for  Joy." 


Elder  Edgar  T.  Henderson,  president 
of  the  Butte  Stake,  offered  the  invoca- 
tion. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Edgar  T.  Henderson  of  the 
Butte  Stake,  Montana,  offered  the  in- 
vocation. The  Combined  Choruses  of 
Logan  Latter-day  Saints  Institute  and 
Utah  State  University  at  Logan  will 
now  favor  us  with,  "The  Morning 
Breaks;  The  Shadows  Flee."  After  the 
singing  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 
of  the  First  Presidency  will  address  us. 


The  Combined  Choruses  sang  the 
hymn,  "The  Morning  Breaks;  the  Shad- 
ows Flee." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  President 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency. President  Clark  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  brothers  and  sisters,  here  present, 
those  on  the  air,  and  our  friends  who 
may  be  listening:  It  is  with  a  deep  sense 
of  the  responsibility  which  rests  upon 
me  by  virtue  of  my  position  that  I  stand 
before  you  this  morning  and  with  a 
prayer  in  my  heart  that  the  Lord  will 
bless  me  and  help  me  to  say  something 
that  will  be  useful  and  upbuilding  to 
you.  And  to  that  end  may  I  ask  that 
you  be  good  enough  to  mingle  your 
prayers  with  mine  that  we  may  accom- 
plish this  purpose. 

For  many  years  I  have  tried  at  this 
particular  season  of  the  year  to  have  in 
mind  some  of  the  essentials  of  that  great, 
last  three  days  of  the  Savior's  mortality. 
I  have  tried  to  run  over  in  my  mind 
some  of  the  chief  events,  the  death,  the 
crucifixion,  and  the  resurrection  of  him 
who  has  given  us  the  plan  by  which 
we  may  come  back  into  our  Heavenly 
Father's  presence.  With  your  permis- 
sion, I  should  like  to  run  over  this  ac- 


count, as  briefly  as  may  be,  because  it 
is  the  crucial  incident  in  the  life  of  the 
world. 

The  Last  Supper 

I  shall  adopt  that  time  we  now  cele- 
brate in  commemoration  thereof  which 
is  usually  accepted  by  Christendom,  and 
therefore  I  will  go  forward  beginning  on 
Thursday  night,  the  night  of  the  Last 
Supper  in  the  Upper  Chamber,  begun 
by  an  unseemly  controversy  as  to  prece- 
dence and  signalized  by  the  institution 
of  the  Sacrament,  which  occurred,  I  feel, 
after  Judas  had  left  the  Chamber  to 
arrange  to  betray  the  Master.  That  was 
a  great  Supper.  There  were  great  ser- 
mons preached  by  the  Master. 

The  Mount  of  Olives 

When  they  had  finished  they  went 
out  to  the  Mount  of  Olives,  where  he 


46  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  5 

preached  again,  and  then  a  little  later 
they  retired  to  the  Garden,  and  the 
Savior,  taking  Peter,  James,  and  John, 
left  the  rest  of  the  Disciples  and  went 
a  little  farther  on. 

The  Garden  of  Gethsemane 

Then  the  Savior  left  them  and  went 
still  farther  on,  and  asked  them  to  wait 
and  watch  while  he  was  gone.  He 
went,  and  the  burden  of  his  prayer 
was:  "O  my  Father,  if  it  be  possible,  let 
this  cup  pass  from  me:  .  .  .  nevertheless 
not  my  will,  but  thine,  be  done." 

He  returned  and  found  his  three 
Disciples  sleeping.  Reproving  them 
gently,  he  went  away  again,  and  gave 
the  same  prayer.  He  knew  what  was 
ahead  of  him.  He  knew  the  end  was 
near.  He  returned  to  find  the  three 
Disciples  sleeping  again.  Again  a  slight 
reproval,  and  the  third  time  he  went, 
the  third  time  he  prayed,  and  then  came 
back  and,  finding  them  again  asleep, 
said:  "Sleep  on  now,  and  take  your  rest: 
behold,  the  hour  is  at  hand." 

The  Arrest 

And  shortly  after  that,  Judas  returned 
with  the  crowd  that  was  to  arrest  the 
Savior  and  did  arrest  him.  When  they 
came  up,  Peter  drew  his  sword  and 
struck  off  the  ear  of  Malchus,  the  serv- 
ant of  the  high  priest.  The  Savior  re- 
stored it  and  then  gave  utterance  to  that 
great  principle:  ".  .  .  they  that  take  the 
sword  shall  perish  with  the  sword." 

The  Trial 

He  was  arrested.  He  was  taken  first, 
in  what  they  say  was  an  illegal  exam- 
ination, to  Annas,  the  real  high  priest, 
the  father-in-law  of  Caiaphas,  the  titu- 
lar high  priest,  who  had  been  installed 
by  the  Roman  Government.  From 
Annas  he  went  to  Caiaphas,  and  it  was 
Caiaphas  who,  in  an  agony  of  fear  and 
apprehension,  said,  "I  adjure  thee  by 
the  living  God,  that  thou  tell  us  whether 
thou  be  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  God." 
And  the  Savior  said  to  him,  "Thou  hast 
said:  nevertheless  I  say  unto  you,  Here- 
after shall  ye  see  the  Son  of  man  sitting 
on  the  right  hand  of  power." 


Second  Day 

The  Sanhedrin 

From  Caiaphas  he  was  sent  to  the 
Sanhedrin,  later  on  in  the  morning  (it 
was  now  early  morning),  and  the  San- 
hedrin passed  what  apparently  was  a 
formal  judgment  that  he  was  to  be 
crucified. 

Before  Pilate 

As  the  Jews  could  not  impose  the 
death  penalty,  from  the  Sanhedrin  he 
was  taken  to  Pilate,  against  whom 
Christendom  has  for  nearly  two  thou- 
sand years  vented  its  dislike,  and  yet, 
as  I  read  the  record,  Pilate  did  practical- 
ly all  that  the  law  under  which  he 
operated  as  stated  in  the  Gospels,  per- 
mitted him  to  do.  Pilate  came  back  to 
the  multitude  on  at  least  five  occasions 
and  sought  to  secure  the  release  of 
Jesus.  At  first  he  returned  merely  say- 
ing, "I  find  no  fault  in  this  man."  And 
the  multitude  renewed  their  demand 
for  his  crucifixion. 

To  Herod 

Then  Pilate  sent  him  to  Herod,  and 
Herod  sent  him  back,  and  Pilate  began 
again  the  examination  of  Jesus.  This 
time,  and  from  then  until  the  end,  he 
pleaded  that  they  take  Barabbas  and 
release  Jesus.  Three  times  at  least  this 
was  done  and  each  time  they  said,  "Re- 
lease unto  us  Barabbas" — it  was  their 
right,  apparently,  to  demand  the  release 
of  one  man  on  this  occasion —  . .  .  "Cru- 
cify him,"  Jesus. 

Pilate's  Wife 

During  this  latter  examination  it  was 
that  Pilate's  wife  sent  to  him  a  letter 
beseeching  him  not  to  do  anything  to 
this  man.  The  result  of  one  of  the 
latest  examinations  was  that  Pilate  took 
a  basin  and  washed  his  hands  and  said, 
"I  am  innocent  of  the  blood  of  this  just 
person:  see  ye  to  it";  and  the  multitude 
cried,  "His  blood  be  on  us,  and  on  our 
children."  It  is  my  faith  that  this  has 
been  so  for  nearly  two  thousand  years. 

The  Crucifixion 

Then  Jesus  was  turned  over  to  be 
crucified.  He  was  scourged,  had  a 
wreath  of  thorns  placed  on  his  head.  He 


PRESIDENT  J.  Rl 

was  stripped  of  the  royal  trappings  they 
had  mockingly  placed  upon  him;  re- 
clothed  in  his  own  raiment;  then 
started  for  the  place  of  crucifixion. 
They  picked  up  Simon,  a  Cyrenian,  and 
forced  him  to  carry  the  cross.  When 
they  came  to  the  place  of  crucifixion, 
they,  of  course,  made  the  necessary 
preparation. 

It  is  said  that  this  crucifixion  was 
perhaps  the  crudest  way  of  taking  hu- 
man life  that  was  practised  by  the 
Romans.  A  hole  was  dug  as  you  dig  a 
posthole.  The  cross  was  laid  down,  and 
the  Savior  was  laid  upon  it  and  nailed 
with  his  hands  and  his  feet.  Two 
thieves  were  likewise  crucified,  and  they 
were  put  one  on  each  side. 

First  Words  on  the  Cross 

As  apparently  they  raised  the  cross  to 
let  it  slip  down  with  a  thud  into  the 
hole  that  had  been  dug,  the  Savior  cried 
out,  "Father,  forgive  them;  for  they 
know  not  what  they  do."  It  is  said 
that  this  dropping  of  the  cross  into  the 
hole  was  the  most  painful  part  of  the 
entire  crucifixion.  Modern  revisionists 
have  cast  doubt  on  the  verity  of  this  di- 
vine invocation  for  love  and  forgiveness 
and  yet  it  seems  as  well  attested  by 
ancient  manuscripts  and  sources  as  any 
of  Jesus'  divine  utterances. 

Second  Words  on  the  Cross 

Of  the  thieves,  one  began  to  upbraid 
him  and  the  other  to  plead  for  mercy, 
and  it  was  then  that  what  was  called 
the  second  outcry  from  the  cross  oc- 
curred, Jesus  saying  to  the  one  who 
spoke  kindly,  "To  day  shalt  thou  be 
with  me  in  paradise." 

Third  Words  on  the  Cross 

As  the  Savior  looked  down  into  the 
multitude  before  him,  he  saw  his  mother 
and  John,  and  "he  saith  unto  his 
mother,  Woman,  behold  thy  son!  Then 
saith  he  to  the  disciple,  Behold  thy 
mother  I" 

Darkness  Falls 

It  would  seem  that  at  about  this  time, 
which  was  midday,  or  the  sixth  hour, 
darkness  fell  over  the  land  of  Palestine. 
It  is  not  quite  clear,  according  to  some 


TBEN  CLARK,  JR.  47 

scholars,  whether  the  darkness  lasted 
in  Palestine  all  the  rest  of  the  time  of 
the  crucifixion,  but  apparently  it  did 
not. 

Darkness  in  America 

But  the  darkness  came  not  only  there, 
it  also  came  on  this  continent,  and  the 
darkness  on  this  continent,  which  seems 
to  have  been  coincident  with  the  falling 
of  the  darkness  there,  lasted  for  three 
days.  The  darkness  in  Palestine  lasted 
only  for  three  hours. 

Fourth,  Fifth,  Sixth,  and  Seventh  Words 
from  the  Cross 

Apparently  when  the  darkness  was 
over  in  Palestine,  the  Savior  made  that 
outcry  of  almost  human  desperation, 
"My  God,  my  God,  why  hast  thou  for- 
saken me?" 

A  little  later,  he  said,  "I  thirst,"  and 
those  in  attendance  gave  him  the  sponge 
saturated  with  vinegar,  which  he  drank. 
A  little  later,  he  cried  out,  "It  is  fin- 
ished," apparently  meaning  that  his 
earthly  work  was  done.  He  had  gone 
through  his  life.  He  had  made  the 
sacrifice. 

Finally,  just  before  his  death,  he  cried 
out,  "Father,  into  thy  hands  I  com- 
mend my  spirit." 

Thus  he  became  the  true  sacrifice  for 
the  Fall,  ordained  from  the  beginning 
of  the  world  and  before. 

The  Burial 

I  will  not  touch  upon  his  burial 
further  than  to  say  that  Joseph  of 
Arimathaea  had  nearby  a  newly  hewn 
rock  sepulchre,  to  which  he  and  Nico- 
demus  took  the  body  of  Jesus — Joseph 
was  recognized  as  a  follower  of  the 
Savior;  Nicodemus  would  have  been,  if 
he  had  had  the  courage,  as  was  so 
beautifully  told  yesterday  by  Elder  Kim- 
ball. It  is  interesting  to  remember  that 
the  day  that  he  was  buried  was  the  day 
fixed  under  the  Mosaic  law  for  the 
gathering  of  the  first  sheaf  of  the 
harvest,  and  as  some  commentators  have 
noted,  that  while  the  women  who  were 
seated  near  the  sepulchre  returned,  sor- 
rowful, to  their  homes  in  the  darkness, 
for  their  light  had  gone  out,  another 
group  from  across  the  Kedron  returned 


48  GENER. 

Saturday,  April  5 

joyously,  carrying  the  sheaf,  the 
sheaf  of  the  harvest. 
That  was  Friday,  yesterday. 

The  Placing  of  the  Guard 

This  morning,  Saturday,  the  chief 
priests  and  the  Pharisees  went  to  Pilate 
and  petitioned,  saying,  "We  remember 
that  that  deceiver  said,  while  he  was  yet 
alive,  After  three  days  I  will  rise  again. 
Command  therefore  that  the  sepulchre 
be  made  sure  until  the  third  day,  lest 
his  disciples  come  by  night,  and  steal 
him  away,  and  say  unto  the  people,  He 
is  risen  from  the  dead:  so  the  last  error 
shall  be  worse  than  the  first.  Pilate  said 
unto  them,  Ye  have  a  watch:  go  your 
way,  make  it  as  sure  as  ye  can." 

That  was  this  morning. 

Voice  in  America 

Meanwhile,  there  was  darkness  on 
this  continent,  the  darkness  having 
cleared,  as  I  have  said,  about  three 
o'clock  the  day  before  in  Palestine. 
There  was  a  voice  on  this  continent, 
heard  all  over  the  land,  which  declared: 
"Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ  the  Son  of 
God."  He  told  of  the  calamities  that 
had  befallen  them  of  this  continent 
during  the  first  three  hours  of  violent 
storm  and  earthquakes;  he  told  of  his 
own  mission  and  gave  them  hope.  On 
this  continent  they  could  feel  the  dark- 
ness, it  was  so  dense.  They  could  light 
no  fires. 

That  was  today,  Saturday. 

The  Resurrection 

Tomorrow  morning,  Sunday,  while 
it  is  still  dark,  there  will  be  an  earth- 
quake, for  an  angel  of  the  Lord  will 
come  down  and  roll  back  the  stone  that 
closed  the  sepulchre. 

While  it  is  still  dark,  Mary  Magda- 
lene will  be  coming,  and  finding  the 
sepulchre  open,  will  rush  back  to  Peter 
and  John  and  tell  them  that  the  sepul- 
chre is  vacant.  They  will  run,  John 
outrunning  Peter,  to  the  sepulchre,  look 
in  and  find  it  vacant. 

Meanwhile  Mary  will  have  come  and 
the  Savior  will  appear  to  her,  a  re- 
pentant and  forgiven  sinner,  a  woman, 
the  first  witness  of  the  resurrection. 
You  will  remember,  she  will  try  to 


CONFERENCE 

Second  Day 

touch  him  and  he  will  say  to  her, 
"Touch  me  not;  for  I  am  not  yet 
ascended  to  my  Father." 

Shortly  after,  the  women  from  Galilee 
will  come,  expecting  to  go  in,  the  Sab- 
bath now  being  past,  and  prepare  the 
body  finally  for  burial.  There  will  be 
two  angels  in  the  sepulchre,  and  they 
will  say  to  them:  "Why  seek  ye  the 
living  among  the  dead?  ...  Ye  seek 
Jesus  of  Nazareth,  which  was  crucified: 
he  is  risen;  he  is  not  here  ...  go  quick- 
ly, and  tell  his  disciples." 

And  so  there  will  thus  be  worked  out 
in  the  morning,  the  atoning  sacrifice, 
predicted,  provided  for,  before  the  foun- 
dations of  the  earth  were  laid. 

Salvation,  Not  Condemnation 

I  have  been  interested  in  reading  why 
the  Savior  himself  said  he  came  here. 
In  that  first  great  sermon  of  which 
Brother  Kimball  spoke  to  us  yesterday, 
the  Savior  said  to  Nicodemus: 

"For  God  sent  not  his  Son  into  the 
world  to  condemn  the  world;  but  that 
the  world  through  him  might  be  saved." 

When  Pilate  was  questioning  the 
Savior  about  his  Kingship,  the  Savior 
said:  "Thou  sayest  that  I  am  a  king.  To 
this  end  was  I  born,  and  for  this  cause 
came  I  into  the  world,  that  I  should 
bear  witness  unto  the  truth." 

To  them  on  this  continent  he  said: 
"Behold,  I  have  come  unto  the  world 
to  bring  redemption  unto  the  world,  to 
save  the  world  from  sin." 

You  know,  I  have  thought  about  that 
a  bit.  He  came  not  to  condemn  the 
world,  but  to  save  it,  to  save  you,  to 
save  me.  He  has  told  us  there  are  many 
mansions.  He  has  told  us  there  is  no 
space  without  a  kingdom.  He  has  told 
us  that  there  are  kingdoms  with  glory 
and  kingdoms  without  glory.  He  has 
made  a  place  for  all  of  us,  no  matter 
who  we  are,  where  we  are,  how  or  when 
we  lived. 

The  Final  Judgment 

I  have  a  feeling,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  that  when  the  time  comes  for 
passing  judgment,  that  great  principle 
not  to  condemn  the  world,  but  to  save 
it,  will  be  fully  operative  and  that  for 
every  good  deed  we  have  done,  we  shall 
receive  the  full  reward  that  it  is  possible 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  WINS 


49 


to  bestow  under  the  rules  and  laws 
governing,  and  having  in  mind  justice. 
And  I  have  the  further  feeling  that  for 
every  ill  thing  we  do  there  will  be  im- 
posed upon  us  the  least  penalty  that 
may  properly  be  bestowed,  having  in 
mind  the  principles  involved, — eternal 
justice  seasoned  by  mercy  and  love. 

In  the  Passover  Chamber,  the  Savior 
had  said  they  could  not  go  where  he 
was  going,  but  they  knew  where  it  was. 
Thomas  said  he  did  not  know.  Where 
was  it?  And  then  the  Savior  uttered 
those  great  words:  "I  am  the  way,  the 
truth,  and  the  life:  no  man  cometh  unto 
the  Father,  but  by  me." 

Over  and  over  again  in  his  ministry, 


he  proclaimed  those  principles.  He  is 
the  way,  he  is  the  life,  he  is  the  truth, 
he  is  the  light.  That  is  the  message 
which  comes  to  us,  and  may  God  give 
to  each  of  us  the  power  to  follow  him, 
to  live  in  his  light,  tread  his  way,  ob- 
serve his  truths,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus,  his  Son.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency  has  just  addressed  us. 
We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Antoine 
R.  Ivins  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy, 
who  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Alma 
Sonne. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is 
almost  a  frightening  situation  to  face 
you  and  realize  the  obligation  that  that 
implies  on  my  part.  I  seek  an  interest 
in  your  faith  and  prayers  that  anything 
that  I  may  say  may  be  directed  by  the 
Spirit  of  God  our  Heavenly  Father. 

First,  I  desire  to  say  to  Sister  Bennion, 
Sister  McKay,  and  Sister  Kirkham,  that 
I  loved  their  husbands  dearly  and  miss 
their  presence  today  and  hope  that  God 
will  comfort  the  sisters  in  the  absence 
of  these  wonderful  men. 

As  you  have  been  told,  I  am  a  member 
of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  a 
group  selected  to  proclaim  the  restored 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  am  always 
interested  in  the  progress  that  that  great 
movement  makes.  There  are  many 
ways  of  doing  it,  of  course;  there  are 
many  fields  of  labor  in  which  we  em- 
bark to  spread  a  knowledge  of  the  re- 
stored gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  have  enjoyed  the  remarks  of  Presi- 
dent Clark.  I  believe  that  there  has 
come  into  my  heart  through  inspiration 
and  revelation  a  testimony  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  that  he  has 
worked  out  for  us  the  means  by  which 
we  can  return  to  the  presence  of  God, 
even  in  exaltation. 

Last  night  we  had  a  very  interesting 
missionary  meeting,  and  from  my  point 
of  view,  one  of  the  most  pleasing  fea- 
tures of  it  was  the  very  sweet  and  hum- 


ble testimony  of  a  new  member  of  the 
Church  as  to  the  joys  and  the  satisfac- 
tions that  have  come  into  his  heart  after 
having  found  what  he  called  the  pearl 
of  great  price.  That  comes  about  be- 
cause the  priesthood  of  God  has  been 
restored  to  the  earth.  The  men  who 
hold  that  priesthood  have  the  obligation, 
which  is  really  a  privilege,  of  carrying 
to  the  world  a  knowledge  of  the  plan  of 
life  and  salvation,  which  through  expe- 
rience and  observation  I  can  testify  is 
really  true  and  effective  in  the  lives  of 
men  and  women  who  accept  it  and  live 
it.  People  who  accept  that  testimony 
have  the  privilege  of  coming  into  the 
fold  and  enjoying  the  many  blessings 
that  can  result  through  the  ministry  of 
the  priesthood  of  God. 

It  is  a  wonderful  responsibility  to  hold 
that  priesthood.  It  is  a  tremendous  op- 
portunity that  we  have  in  its  adminis- 
tration, not  only  for  the  benefit  of  others 
who  have  not  understood  it  and  appre- 
ciated it,  but  for  our  own  sakes  as  well. 

It  is  now  twenty-four  years  since  I 
first  stood  at  this  pulpit  and  bore  my 
testimony  to  you.  In  that  time  I  have 
had  the  pleasure  of  ministering  among 
the  people  of  the  stakes  and  the  wards, 
and  I  have  been  in  the  territory  of  all 
the  mission  fields  of  Mexico,  Canada, 
and  the  United  States.  I  have  seen  it 
effective  in  the  lives  of  people,  and  verily 
it  is,  as  we  were  told  last  night,  a  pearl 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  S 

of  great  price  which  is  within  the  reach 
of  all  who  will  strive  to  get  it. 

Now  the  pearl  of  great  price  is  not 
a  bound  volume.  We  have  one  we  call 
the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  of  course,  but 
that  is  not  the  pearl  of  great  price  to 
which  I  refer.  The  pearl  of  great  price 
— what  is  it?  It  is  the  opportunity,  I 
believe,  to  earn  an  exaltation  in  the 
kingdom  of  God,  which  comes  to  us  as 
a  merciful  gift  from  Christ  our  Lord. 
Now,  there  are  many  others  who  have 
the  privilege  of  earning  that  great  gift. 

I  like  to  think  of  the  pearl  of  great 
price  as  being  in  escrow,  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  we  can  only  receive  it — and 
perhaps  we  will  not  know  whether  or 
not  we  have  done  it  successfully  until 
the  end  of  our  days — by  obtaining  and 
exercising  and  magnifying  the  offices  of 
the  priesthood.  That  is  what  it  means, 
brethren  and  sisters,  the  opportunity  of 
the  priesthood  magnified  in  the  lives  of 
men  and  women,  and  the  exaltation  that 
can  come  about  through  that  exercise. 

To  me  that  is  the  pearl  of  great  price. 
It  will  never  be  retrieved  from  escrow 
until  God  gives  us  the  word  of  com- 
mendation for  a  life  well  lived. 

There  are  many,  many  men  in  the 
priesthood  of  God;  we  were  told  yester- 
day that  there  are  almost  203,000  men 
in  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  and 
those  men  have  that  opportunity  and 
that  responsibility.  As  I  have  moved 
about  among  the  stakes  and  checked  in 
recent  years,  I  have  discovered,  how- 
ever, that  there  are  many  people  who 
have  gone  through  the  formality  of 
having  that  blessing  bestowed  upon 
them  who  evidently  do  not  appreciate 
it.  I  have  come  to  think  that  the  Mel- 
chizedek Priesthood,  perhaps,  in  certain 
sections,  is  the  most  unappreciated  gift 
that  we  have.  In  many  sections  where 
I  have  been  there  are  at  least  thirty  per- 
cent of  the  elders  who  are  reported  in- 
active. Of  course,  I  do  not  know  just 
what  "inactivity"  means,  but  certain  it 
is  that  when  they  are  reported  as  such 
they  are  not  striving  fully  to  magnify 
their  calling. 

I  like  to  suggest  to  those  people  the 
advantage  of  doing  it — to  hold  up  to 
them  an  incentive  for  it,  and  I  would 
like  to  read  you  a  little  from  the  Doc- 


Second  Day 

trine  and  Covenants,  which  sets  up  that 
privilege: 

For  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the  obtaining 
these  two  priesthoods  of  which  I  have  spo- 
ken, and  the  magnifying  their  calling  [mind 
you,  the  magnifying  of  their  calling],  are 
sanctified  by  the  Spirit  unto  the  renewing 
of  their  bodies. 

They  become  the  sons  of  Moses  and  of 
Aaron  and  the  seed  of  Abraham,  and  the 
church  and  kingdom,  and  the  elect  of  God. 

Now  that  means,  to  become  the  elect 
of  God  one  has  to  magnify  his  calling 
in  the  priesthood. 

And  also  all  they  who  receive  this  priest- 
hood receive  me,  saith  the  Lord; 

For  he  that  receiveth  my  servants  receiveth 
me; 

And  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth  my 
Father; 

And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father  receiveth 
my  Father's  kingdom;  therefore  all  that  my 
Father  hath  shall  be  given  unto  him. 

And  this  is  according  to  the  oath  and 
covenant  which  belongeth  to  the  priest- 
hood. 

Therefore,  all  those  who  receive  the  priest- 
hood, receive  this  oath  and  covenant  of  my 
Father,  which  he  cannot  break,  neither  can 
it  be  moved.  (D  &  C  84:33-40.) 

Now  that,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is 
the  blessing  that  may  be  obtained  by 
magnifying  the  calling  we  have  in  the 
priesthood.  Two  hundred  and  three 
thousand  men  have  that  opportunity. 
Two  hundred  and  three  thousand  men, 
if  they  live  to  avail  themselves  of  all  of 
the  privileges  of  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood, will  be  able  to  take  from  escrow 
that  pearl  of  great  price  which  is,  in  my 
opinion,  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of 
God  our  Heavenly  Father. 

The  culminating  privilege  in  the  testi- 
mony of  that  fine  brother  last  night  was 
the  fact  that  he  had  been  able  to  take 
his  wife  and  children  to  the  temple  in 
Los  Angeles,  to  be  sealed  to  his  wife  and 
have  his  children  sealed  to  him.  In 
many,  many  meetings  which  I  have  at- 
tended, meetings  of  elders  and  their 
wives  and  of  reclaimed  members  of  the 
Church,  if  you  will  permit  that  expres- 
sion, the  culminating  blessing  to  which 
these  brethren  have  testified  is  the 
privilege  of  being  sealed  to  their  wives 
and  having  their  children  sealed  to 
them  in  the  temple  of  God;  and  still, 
not  fifty  percent  of  our  people  who  mar- 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


51 


ry  avail  themselves  of  that  privilege.  All 
that  our  Father  hath  shall  be  given  to 
him  who  magnifies  that  calling,  and  that 
means  that  he  shall  take  his  wife  to  the 
temple,  because  we  are  told  also  that 
men  who  succeed  in  fully  living  up  to 
all  of  the  privileges  and  responsibilities 
of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  shall  be- 
come gods  with  the  power  of  eternal  in- 
crease. That  is  the  pearl  of  great  price, 
brethren  and  sisters. 

Then,  why  should  we  not  strive,  once 
we  have  been  offered  that  privilege,  to 
magnify  it? 

Now  it  is  our  duty,  the  duty  of  those 
of  us  who  strive  to  do  it,  to  help  others 
to  realize  the  importance  of  it  and  then 
give  aid  and  succor  where  it  is  necessary 
to  strengthen  in  their  determination 
these  people  who  have  not  yet  seen  fit 
to  qualify  for  all  these  blessings.  We 
have  many  of  them,  yes,  many  of  them, 
and  who  are  they?  They  are  our  broth- 
ers, our  cousins,  our  uncles,  and  in  cases, 
our  fathers.  I  had  an  elder  in  my  chair, 
setting  him  apart  one  day,  and  asked 
his  father  if  he  could  help  me,  it  being 
a  Melchizedek  Priesthood  function,  and 
he  said,  "No."  I  said,  "Well,  brother, 
you  have  to  be  careful,  because  as  soon 
as  this  son  of  yours  gets  in  the  mission 
field  he  is  going  to  start  to  work  on  you 
to  convince  you  of  these  things."  He 
said,  "Brother  Ivins,  he  is  not  waiting 
to  get  in  the  mission  field;  he  is  starting 
now." 

Well,  there  we  are,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters. That  is  just  a  typical  instance  of 
many  men  who  are  willing  that  their 


sons  should  go  out  and  serve  in  this 
cause  and  are  hopeful  that  their  sons 
will  be  able  to  live  better  lives  than  they 
have. 

On  another  occasion,  as  one  of  those 
fathers  left  my  office,  I  said,  "Now,  the 
next  time  you  bring  a  son  in,  and  you 
say  it  is  going  to  be  soon,  be  sure  that 
you  can  help  me."   He  said,  "I  will." 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  all 
know  that  these  things  are  important  in 
our  lives,  but  why  cannot  we  develop 
the  courage  that  it  takes  to  qualify  for 
the  Spirit  of  God  through  exercising  the 
priesthood  that  has  been  given  to  us 
to  the  very  fullest  of  our  ability?  Why 
cannot  we?  That  is  the  great  and  im- 
portant problem,  it  seems  to  me,  breth- 
ren and  sisters. 

I  testify  to  you  that  priesthood  is 
virile  in  the  lives  of  men,  that  it  is  ac- 
tual, that  it  has  been  restored.  Bless 
your  soul,  in  one  direction,  there  are 
only  two  steps  between  my  ordination  as 
an  elder  and  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
It  is  here,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  its 
vigor  and  in  its  strength  and  in  its 
purity  in  unbroken  line.  Now  why  can- 
not we  live  worthy  of  it  and  magnify  it? 

May  God  help  us  to  do  it,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken  to 
us.  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  will  now  address  us. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  been 
deeply  impressed  by  the  stirring  and 
sublime  messages  which  have  come  to 
us  during  this  conference,  also  by  the 
singing  of  the  choirs — for  singing,  after 
all,  is  surely  a  part  of  divine  worship. 

Someone  has  said  that  the  best  evi- 
dence of  Christ's  divinity  is  Christ  him- 
self. 

A  few  years  ago  I  made  some  notes 
which  I  headed,  "Jesus  Christ — a  Real- 
ity." I  had  two  reasons  for  making  the 
notes.   One  was  that  I  had  just  read  an 


article  entitled  "Jesus  Christ— a  Myth," 
and  the  other  was  the  reading  of  a  sum- 
mary in  a  Denver  newspaper  of  some 
sermons  delivered  on  the  previous  Sun- 
day. One  of  the  ministers,  according 
to  the  report,  made  the  following  state- 
ment: "It  matters  not  to  me  whether 
the  historical  Jesus  lived  or  not  so  long 
as  I  have  access  to  the  philosophy  of  life 
which  is  attributed  to  him." 

The  protestant  minister  who  made 
this  statement,  it  appears,  is  willing  to 
teach  Christianity  without  Christ.  By 


52 

Saturday,  April  5 

so  doing  he  removes  the  greatest  and 
strongest  incentive  to  live  a  Christlike 
life.  But  Jesus  cannot  be  disposed  of 
in  any  such  flippant  and  thoughtless 
manner.  He  still  lives  not  only  in  the 
hearts  of  mankind  but  also  on  the  pages 
of  history,  and  he  is  still  the  most 
beautiful  and  attractive  personality  in 
human  history. 

It  was  Colonel  Robert  G.  Ingersoll 
who  said  many  years  ago:  "For  the  man 
Jesus,  I  have  the  profoundest  admira- 
tion. I  gladly  pay  to  him  the  homage 
of  my  tears;  but  for  Jesus  as  the  Son  of 
God,  I  will  have  nothing  to  do  with 
him." 

I  submit  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  the  statement  made  by  Mr. 
Ingersoll  is  not  one  whit  more  unchris- 
tian than  that  made  by  the  minister 
who  occupied  a  Christian  pulpit.  It  is 
said  that  when  Ingersoll  died  many  of 
the  preachers  in  Christendom  searched 
in  their  vocabularies  for  words  that  sting 
and  bite  with  which  to  execrate  his 
memory. 

It  is  reported  that  Napoleon  once  said, 
"Is  it  not  amazing  that  the  ambitious 
dreams  of  Alexander  the  Great,  Julius 
Caesar,  and  Napoleon  Bonaparte  should 
vanish  into  thin  air  and  a  Jewish 
peasant  should  extend  a  crucified  hand 
across  the  pages  of  history  and  control 
the  destinies  of  the  human  family?" 

Some  of  you  will  recall  that  a  few 
years  ago  H.  G.  Wells,  the  historian, 
was  asked  to  write  down  the  names  of 
six  characters  in  world  history,  who,  in 
his  opinion,  had  wielded  the  greatest 
influence  for  good  among  the  children 
of  men.  Without  any  pause  or  hesita- 
tion he  quickly  wrote  the  name  Jesus 
of  Nazareth.  He  then  remarked:  "But 
I  am  not  a  Christian.  I  am  a  writer  of 
history."  He  then  put  down  four  more 
names,  all  of  which  I  have  forgotten. 
But  he  ended  the  list  with  the  name, 
Abraham  Lincoln,  who  presided  over 
this  nation  during  the  crucial  days  of 
the  Civil  War. 

It  was  Lincoln  who  said:  "I  am  not 
bound  to  win,  but  I  am  bound  to  be 
true.  I  am  not  bound  to  succeed,  but 
I  am  bound  to  live  up  to  what  light  I 
have.  I  stand  with  a  man  who  is  right, 
and  I  stand  with  him  as  long  as  he  is 
right,  but  I  part  company  with  him 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

when  he  is  wrong."  I  have  always  re- 
garded Abraham  Lincoln  as  our  great- 
est statesman  who  exemplified  Christian 
ideals  in  his  management  of  the  nation. 

As  intimated  by  these  men,  Jesus 
stands  alone  even  among  the  world's 
greatest  like  a  tall  majestic  mountain 
which  lifts  its  form  above  the  hills  and 
valleys.  There  is  no  one  with  whom  he 
can  be  compared.  We  readily  classify 
all  leaders  who  have  achieved  and  won 
fame  in  music,  in  art,  in  literature,  in 
statesmanship,  and  even  in  militarism, 
but  we  cannot  put  Jesus  with  any  group. 
History  has  accounted  for  most  men. 

The  intellectual  activity  of  the  six- 
teenth century,  for  instance,  produced 
Shakespeare,  Milton,  and  many  others. 
The  struggle  and  desire  for  freedom  in 
the  eighteenth  century  made  men  like 
Thomas  Jefferson,  George  Washington, 
Patrick  Henry,  Benjamin  Franklin,  John 
Adams,  Alexander  Hamilton,  and  others. 
The  wild  robber  spirit  of  the  east  pro- 
duced Alexander  the  Great.  But  who, 
except  the  believer,  will  account  for 
Jesus?  He  came  out  of  a  city  noted  for 
ignorance,  yet  he  rose  to  intellectual 
and  spiritual  heights.  He  lived  in  a 
period  of  hatred  and  bigotry,  yet  he 
personified  love  and  goodwill.  His 
name  and  fame  have  been  remembered, 
and  yet  he  wrote  no  book  to  keep  alive 
his  memory.  His  gospel  of  salvation 
was  entrusted  to  a  few  humble  men 
whom  he  trained  for  three  years  and 
sent  forth  to  proclaim  his  truths.  These 
men,  judged  by  worldly  standards,  were 
meek  and  lowly  and  without  influence 
in  the  recognized  circles  of  their  day. 
Discussion  of  Jesus  has  filled  volumes. 
His  memory  is  everywhere.  He  takes  a 
place  midmost  in  history  and  is  the 
central  figure  around  which  events  are 
woven.  Strangely  enough,  he  is  both 
loved  and  hated.  There  are  people  on 
earth  today  who  would  crucify  him  the 
second  time  were  he  to  come  again. 

A  determined  effort  was  made  to  blot 
him  out  completely,  yet  he  lives  in  the 
hearts  of  men  and  women  the  world 
over.  Many  have  died  for  him  and 
there  are  many  who  would  die  for  him 
today  if  it  were  necessary.  He  is  slowly 
but  surely  conquering  the  world.  His 
contemporaries,  like  Pontius  Pilate  and 
Herod  the  Great,  would  probably  have 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 


53 


been  forgotten  were  it  not  for  their  as- 
sociation and  connection  with  him  dur- 
ing their  lives. 

What  is  the  position  of  the  Church 
with  respect  to  this  great,  outstanding 
character  about  whom  we  have  heard 
so  much  today?  This  morning  we 
heard  a  wonderful  and  powerful  sermon 
delivered  by  President  J.  Reuben  Clark, 
Jr.,  concerning  Christ's  resurrection,  his 
last  three  days  on  the  earth,  and  the 
atonement  he  wrought  out  on  Calvary. 
There  are  those  who  claim  to  be  fol- 
lowers of  the  Nazarine  who  deny, 
ridicule,  and  endeavor  to  explain  away 
the  great  miracles  connected  with  his 
ministry  among  men.  To  them  we  say, 
"Christianity  is  either  history  or  noth- 
ing." To  deny  Christ's  divinity  is  to 
turn  one's  back  on  the  integrity  and 
reliability  of  many  scriptural  declara- 
tions and  to  question  the  revelations  of 
God. 

Mormonism  declares  that  Jesus  Christ 
lived  upon  the  earth,  that  he  mingled 
with  men,  that  he  preached  his  power- 
ful Sermon  on  the  Mount  to  a  small 
group  of  friends  and  associates  who 
gathered  on  a  mountainside,  that  he 
performed  mighty  miracles,  that  he  was 
born  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  that  he  was 
put  to  death  on  the  cross  by  his  ene- 
mies, that  he  arose  from  the  grave  on 
the  third  day  after  his  crucifixion,  and 


finally,  that  he  is  the  Son  of  God.  Mor- 
monism also  declares  that  he  chose 
twelve  apostles,  that  he  commissioned 
them  to  preach  the  gospel  of  salvation 
which  he  had  taught  them,  and  that  like 
him  they  performed  many  miracles  in 
his  name  and  established  his  Church 
upon  the  earth. 

May  we  always  remember  him  and 
keep  all  the  commandments  which  he 
has  given  us,  I  pray  in  his  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Alma 
Sonne,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve.  The 
congregation  and  chorus  will  now  sing, 
"Redeemer  of  Israel,"  under  the  direc- 
tion of  Elder  James  L.  Bradley.  After 
the  singing  we  shall  hear  from  Bishop 
Carl  W.  Buehner. 


The  congregation  and  the  Combined 
Choruses  joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"Redeemer  of  Israel,"  James  L.  Bradley 
directing. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  of  the  Church  will 
now  address  us.  Bishop  Buehner  will 
be  followed  by  Elder  Clifford  E.  Young. 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


I  esteem  it  a  great  honor,  my  brothers 
and  sisters,  to  be  in  your  presence  and 
to  bear  you  my  humble  testimony  of 
the  divinity  of  this  great  work.  As  I 
look  into  the  faces  of  this  large  audience 
of  leaders  gathered  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church,  fully  aware  of  the  tremendous 
activity  going  on  in  the  Church,  I  feel 
to  say,  "God  bless  you  every  one." 

Last  Wednesday  and  Thursday,  I  en- 
joyed the  honor  of  attending  and  par- 
ticipating in  a  number  of  sessions  of  the 
outstanding  Primary  conference.  I 
came  to  a  realization,  more  than  ever 
before,  of  the  marvelous  influence  of 
these  sisters  on  the  lives  of  our  children. 
I  would  like  wholeheartedly  to  com- 
mend them  for  the  fine  work  they  are 


doing  and  assure  them  that  they  have 
the  love  and  blessing  of  each  of  us. 

Among  other  things,  they  are  teach- 
ing the  Articles  of  Faith  in  language 
the  children  can  understand.  This  after 
all  is  the  very  heart  of  the  gospel.  They 
are  also  conducting  departments  which 
are  providing  a  great  stimulation  in 
preparing  the  young  boys  to  receive 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood. 

I  heard  a  story  the  other  day  that 
could  well  be  the  result  of  the  teaching 
of  the  Primary  organization.  This  con- 
cerned a  family  who  came  to  the  bishop 
at  tithing  settlement  time.  In  the 
group  were  the  father,  mother,  and  a 
number  of  children.  As  they  came  into 
the  bishop's  office,  he  greeted  each  of 


54 

Saturday,  April  5 

them,  and  when  they  were  all  seated, 
the  bishop  said,  "I  assume  you  have 
come  to  talk  to  me  about  your  tithing 
and  that  you  would  each  like  to  ex- 
press your  wishes  concerning  your  own 
tithing  account.  Shall  we  start  with 
little  Johnny  on  the  end  of  the  line? 
Johnny,  would  you  like  to  come  for- 
ward and  settle  your  tithing?"  To  this 
Johnny  replied,  "Yes,"  and  he  reached 
in  his  pocket,  brought  out  a  little  worn 
purse,  and  after  fumbling  around  in  it 
a  little  while,  found  a  dime,  two  nickels, 
and  two  or  three  pennies.  He  put  these 
on  the  bishop's  desk  and  said,  "Bishop, 
this  is  my  tithing  in  full."  The  bishop 
congratulated  Johnny,  wrote  him  out  a 
receipt,  indicated  on  it  that  it  was 
tithing  in  full,  and  gave  it  to  him.  Re- 
turning to  his  seat,  Johnny  very  proud- 
ly displayed  the  receipt  to  his  father 
and  said,  "Dad,  when  you  settle  yours, 
I  hope  you  will  get  one  that  says  on  it, 
'Paid  in  full' " 

Faith-promoting  stories  such  as  this 
indicate  to  me  that  someone  is  providing 
our  children  with  a  desire  to  keep  the 
principles  of  the  gospel. 

I  feel  honored  and  very  grateful  that 
I  have  been  found  worthy  to  be  one  of 
those  selected  to  preside  over  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  in  this  growing  Church  of 
ours.  I  sincerely  hope  that  the  Lord  will 
assist  us  in  our  objective  of  saving  every 
boy  who  comes  under  our  direction. 
Some  of  the  bishops  are  catching  the 
vision  and  spirit  of  this.  Not  long  ago 
I  sat  with  one  of  these  brethren  while 
attending  a  ward  teaching  convention. 
He  said  to  me,  "Bishop,  we  have  not  lost 
one  boy  of  Aaronic  Priesthood  age  in 
our  ward  in  the  past  five  years."  And 
just  recently  in  a  ward  in  the  West 
Jordan  Stake,  a  ward  Aaronic  Priesthood 
adviser  made  a  similar  statement,  "Bish- 
op, we  have  lost  only  one  boy  in  six 
years."  Then  I  recall  at  Christmas  time 
being  in  my  own  ward  and  hearing  my 
own  bishop  say  to  me,  "This  morning 
out  of  forty-eight  boys  holding  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  in  our  ward,  forty- 
four  were  present  at  priesthood  meeting, 
three  had  good  excuses,  and  out  of  the 
forty-eight,  only  one  is  a  problem  boy." 
I  imagine  when  all  of  the  big  guns  are 
centered  on  that  one  boy,  he  will  suc- 
cumb, too.    It  will  be  easier  for  him 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

to  come  to  church  than  to  endure  all 
the  pressure  that  will  be  put  on  him  to 
bring  him  back  into  activity. 

I  have  always  been  a  great  believer 
in  our  young  men.  I  am  happy  to  be 
associated  with  them,  and  I  appreciate 
what  you  are  doing  to  help  us  keep 
every  one  of  them  active  in  the  Church. 

A  charming  sister,  Janet  Frame 
Mecham,  whose  husband  is  the  chair- 
man of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  commit- 
tee in  one  of  our  stakes,  observing  the 
activities  of  her  husband  as  he  went 
about  the  work  assigned  to  him,  wrote 
the  following  lines: 

Let's  Accelerate  in  Fifty-Eight 

In  fifty-eight  let's  co-operate 

To  accomplish  what  we  designate. 

Our  record  we'll  accentuate 

As  each  member  we  will  stimulate. 

In  the  plan  we  want  to  instigate, 
Let's  not  one  of  us  procrastinate. 
But  each  thing  we  shall  inaugurate, 
Let's  unanimously  corroborate. 

There  are  methods  we'll  incorporate, 
And  others  we  must  perpetuate. 
But  some  we  cannot  tolerate 
As  we  keep  our  plans  right  up-to-date. 

Let  each  one  our  time  here  dedicate 
To  each  job  our  leaders  delegate, 
And  our  efforts  unitedly  concentrate 
So  each  priesthood  bearer  will  participate. 

Joy  and  blessings  forever  compensate 
For  the  work  and  plans  we  consummate. 
There  are  stakes  we  could  impersonate, 
But  each  one  we  should  evaluate. 

Take  the  best  from  each  and  contemplate 

How  their  methods  we'll  accelerate 

So  our  record  will  reverberate 

Through  the  Church  in  nineteen  fifty-eight. 

I  am  sure  her  husband  could  not  have 
produced  such  a  masterpiece. 

Our  problem  does  not  concern  us  so 
much  with  the  boys  under  twenty-one 
since  their  records  are  improving  each 
year  but  with  those  who  are  over  twenty- 
one  who  through  the  years  have  slipped 
into  inactivity.  These  brethren  we  desig- 
nate as  senior  members  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood.  I  do  not  know  when  these 
brethren  all  got  away  from  us,  but  I 
do  know  that  we  now  have  the  greatest 
program  we  have  ever  had  to  bring  them 
back  to  an  appreciation  of  this  great 
power  called  the  priesthood — Aaronic 


BISHOP  CARL 

Priesthood.  Last  year  some  three  hun- 
dred and  fifty  schools  for  senior  mem- 
bers of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  were  held 
in  the  Church.  From  these  schools 
came  a  tremendous  result  for  good.  I 
have  heard  men  bear  their  testimonies 
with  tears  dripping  from  their  cheeks, 
grateful  for  the  program  of  reactivation 
and  that  someone  has  gone  out  of  his 
way  to  put  his  arm  around  them  and 
invite  them  back  into  the  activities  of 
the  priesthood  program. 

Brethren,  we  have  some  eighty  thou- 
sand men  like  this.  I  hope  through  the 
united  effort  of  all  of  the  organizations 
that  can  make  a  contribution  that  we 
will  have  success  in  bringing  back  into 
activity  most  of  these  men  who  are  de- 
priving themselves  of  the  blessings  of 
our  Heavenly  Father,  because  they  are 
now  outside  and  not  inside  enjoying  the 
blessings  which  come  from  magnifying 
the  priesthood  that  they  bear. 

Recently,  a  sister  who  is  the  wife  of 
one  of  these  brethren  said  among  other 
things  while  addressing  a  session  of 
quarterly  conference,  "All  I  want  for 
Christmas  is  a  temple  marriage."  Her 
husband  sitting  in  front  of  her  heard 
this  request.  I  would  like  eighty  thou- 
sand other  women  to  challenge  their 
husbands  to  prepare  their  lives  so  that 
there  can  be  eighty  thousand  temple 
marriages  of  this  same  type.  We  would 
strengthen  the  activity  in  this  Church  as 
we  have  never  seen  it  before. 

Responding  to  an  assignment  to  give 
a  talk,  a  senior  member  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  in  the  Portland  Stake  quoted 
a  few  familiar  lines  from  Benjamin 
Franklin's  Almanac: 

For  the  want  of  a  nail,  the  shoe  was  lost. 
For  the  want  of  the  shoe,  the  horse  was  lost. 
For  the  want  of  the  horse,  the  rider  was  lost. 
For  the  want  of  the  rider,  the  battle  was  lost. 
For  the  loss  of  the  battle,  the  kingdom  was 
lost, 

And  all  because  of  a  nail. 

This  senior  member  paraphrased  these 
few  lines,  and  this  is  what  he  said: 

For  the  want  of  activity,  the  love  was  lost. 
For  the  want  of  love,  the  service  was  lost. 
For  the  want  of  service,  the  faith  was  lost. 
For  the  want  of  faith,  the  repentance  was 
lost. 

For  the  want  of  repentance,  the  salvation 
was  lost. 


W.  BUEHNER  55 

For  the  loss  of  salvation,  a  place  in  God's 

kingdom  was  lost. 
And  all  because  of  the  want  of  activity. 

I  do  not  have  time  to  elaborate  on 
this,  but  I  think  that  man  had  a  great 
thought. 

What  is  the  Aaronic  Priesthood?  It 
is  a  power  that  has  been  delegated  to 
man  that  has  in  it  great  blessings  and 
great  opportunities  to  serve.  The  Aaronic 
Priesthood  was  named  after  a  devoted 
and  faithful  man,  Aaron,  the  brother  of 
Moses,  who  was  given  to  Moses  as  a 
spokesman  since,  as  the  scriptures  re- 
cord, Moses  was  slow  of  speech.  It  was 
by  the  power  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood 
that  John  the  Baptist  came  crying  in 
the  wilderness  and  told  of  one  coming 
who  was  greater  and  mightier  than  he 
and  who  would  perform  great  miracles. 
It  was  by  the  power  of  this  same  priest- 
hood that  the  Savior  of  the  world  was 
baptized  in  the  River  Jordan  by  John 
the  Baptist.  It  was  this  same  John  the 
Baptist  who  under  the  direction  of  Peter, 
James,  and  John  restored  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  to  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery.  After  his  ascension,  Joseph 
Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery,  by  the  au- 
thority of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  that 
had  come  to  them,  baptized  each  other 
in  the  Susquehanna  River.  It  is  the 
power  by  which  the  emblems  of  the 
Sacrament  are  administered  each  Sun- 
day and  given  to  the  members  of  the 
Church  in  remembrance  of  the  broken 
body  and  the  spilt  blood  of  the  Savior 
of  the  world. 

It  is  the  power  by  which  young  men 
are  designated  as  ward  teachers  to  go 
with  their  senior  companions  into  the 
homes  of  members  of  the  Church  to 
preach,  teach,  expound,  and  the  other 
things  spoken  of  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants.  It  is  also  the  power  by 
which  a  young  boy  twelve  years  of  age 
comes  to  your  door  and  offers  you  a 
blessing  by  inviting  you  to  make  a  con- 
tribution to  the  fast  offering  funds  of 
the  Church.  It  is  a  great  honor  to  be 
a  bearer  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  and 
to  magnify  that  power  which  has  come 
through  being  so  honored. 

I  would  like  to  say  to  the  seventy  or 
eighty  thousand  other  bearers  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  who  are  men,  now 
likely  heads  of  families,  I  wish  that  to 


56 

Saturday,  April  5 

you,  too,  could  come  the  blessing  that 
comes  to  every  active  bearer  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood.  I  would  like  you  to 
know  that  you  are  invited  to  come  into 
our  chapels.  There  have  been  many 
who  have  said,  "I  have  been  away  so 
long,  I  think  I  am  not  wanted."  You 
will  never  know  how  much  you  are 
wanted,  and  you  will  never  know  how 
much  good  it  will  do  you,  too.  The 
Church  needs  you,  but  you  also  need 
the  Church.  Your  family  needs  you, 
as  a  man  magnifying  the  priesthood, 
to  stand  at  the  head  of  your  home. 

I  have  heard  a  few  verses  of  poetry 
quoted  that  have  a  line  which  goes 
something  like  this,  "And  I  stepped  in 
your  footsteps  all  the  way."  Would  we 
be  proud  if  our  boys  stepped  in  our 
footsteps  all  the  way?  We  would  if  we 
were  magnifying  the  priesthood  and  en- 
joying the  blessings  that  come  to  us 
through  faithful  participation. 

In  conclusion  I  would  like  to  say  that 
it  has  been  reported  that  someone  said 
a  dirt-road  traveler  traveling  along  the 
highway  saw  a  sign  that  read,  "You  had 
better  pick  your  rut  now  because  you  are 
going  to  be  in  it  for  the  next  twenty 
miles."  There  is  nothing  that  says  you 
are  going  to  be  in  it  for  the  rest  of  your 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

life,  and  while  most  of  us  may  detour  a 
little — we  get  in  trouble,  and  we  may  be 
in  a  rut  for  a  little  while — it  does  not 
mean  we  cannot  get  out  of  the  rut  and 
get  on  a  good,  hard  highway  and  make 
up  for  the  years  we  were  in  the  rut  by 
getting  on  that  road  that  leads  us  to 
life  eternal. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony,  my  brethren 
of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  that  if  you 
will  magnify  that  priesthood  and  work 
for  its  great  blessings,  even  greater  bless- 
ings will  come  to  you,  and  then  one  day 
will  come  to  pass  that  which  this  one 
sister  asked  for,  "All  I  want  for  Christ- 
mas is  a  temple  marriage." 

May  it  come  to  each  of  us,  and  may 
we  find  joy  in  assisting  these  brethren 
back  into  activity  in  the  Church,  I  pray 
humbly  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened 
is  Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric.  We  shall  now  hear 
from  Elder  Clifford  E.  Young,  Assist- 
ant to  the  Twelve.  He  will  be  fol- 
lowed by  Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson. 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  you  will 
readily  understand  that  in  the  interest 
of  time  I  can  only  bear  my  witness  to 
the  truth  of  the  messages  we  have  re- 
ceived thus  far  in  this  conference.  As 
I  have  listened  this  morning,  I  have 
been  profoundly  impressed.  I  think  that 
it  would  be  a  good  thing  for  all  of  us, 
after  listening  to  President  Clark,  if  we 
could  become  familiar  with  the  manual 
that  our  brethren  of  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  are  using  this  year.  As  you 
doubtless  know,  we  are  using  Our  Lord 
of  the  Gospels,  that  splendid  book 
Brother  Clark  has  given  to  us  after 
years  and  years  of  careful  study.  We 
are  not  Bible  readers.  Here  is  an  op- 
portunity for  us  in  our  homes  to  become 
such,  and  I  would  like  to  recommend 
that  the  members  of  the  families — not  on- 
ly the  priesthood — but  all  the  members, 


become  familiar  with  this  monumental 
work  by  reading  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  manual.  At  first  it  may 
appear  to  be  somewhat  complicated  and 
involved,  but  it  is  not.  It  is  beautiful 
because  of  its  simplicity,  and  I  am  sure 
all  will  so  regard  it  if  they  read  it. 

Now,  to  make  a  comment  or  two  in 
harmony  with  what  has  been  said  on 
this  occasion:  We  are  celebrating  Easter. 
It  is  a  time  when  our  hearts  are  turned 
to  our  fathers,  to  our  children,  to  those 
whom  we  love  who  have  passed  to  the 
other  side.  I  have  thought  a  lot  about 
my  colleague,  Brother  Thomas  E.  Mc- 
Kay, by  whom  I  have  sat  for  seventeen 
years.  I  had  a  deep  affection  for  him 
and  he  for  me.  We  understood  each 
other.  This  understanding  of  which 
I  speak  is  impressively  expressed  in  the 
Letters  of  Franklin  K.  Lane  published 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 


57 


after  his  death.  He  was  the  Secretary 
of  the  Interior  under  Woodrow  Wilson, 
and  a  man  from  the  West.  He  was  ill 
in  the  Mayo  Hospital.  It  was  his  last 
illness.  He  wrote  his  memoirs,  or  Let- 
ters, and  as  he  concluded  he  wrote  the 
following  the  day  he  died: 

But  for  my  heart's  content  in  that  new 
land,  I  think  I  would  rather  loaf  with  Lin- 
coln along  a  river  bank.  I  know  I  could 
understand  him.  I  would  not  have  to  learn 
who  were  his  friends  and  who  his  enemies, 
what  theories  he  was  committed  to,  and 
what  against.  We  could  just  talk  and  open 
our  minds,  and  tell  our  doubts,  and  swap 
the  longings  of  our  hearts  that  others  never 
heard  of.  He  would  not  try  to  master  me 
nor  make  me  feel  how  small  I  was.  I 
would  dare  to  ask  him  things  and  know 
that  he  felt  awkward  about  them,  too.  We 
would  talk  of  men  a  lot,  the  kind  they 
call  the  great,  and  I  would  not  find  him 
scornful.  .  .  . 

I  feel  that  way  this  morning  as  I  have 
thought  about  these  Brethren,  and  espe- 
cially about  Brother  Thomas  E.  McKay, 
whom  I  learned  to  admire  so  much. 

Now,  the  message,  briefly,  is  this,  my 
brethren  and  sisters:  These,  our  asso- 
ciates, of  whom  we  have  heard,  whom 
we  all  learned  to  appreciate  because  of 
their  devotion  to  the  Church — and  they 
were  devoted  men — I  have  known  them 
for  many  years  and  had  their  help 
when  I  was  working  in  stake  organiza- 
tions; in  the  MIA,  the  help  of  Brother 
Oscar  A.  Kirkham;  Brother  Adam  S. 
Bennion  visiting  us  as  a  member  of  the 
general  Sunday  School  board;  and  then 
our  association  with  Brother  Thomas  E. 
McKay  for  these  past  seventeen  years. 

In  their  passing  we  have  learned,  I 
think,  two  lessons — and  I  will  just  men- 
tion them.  The  first  one  is  this:  As  we 
think  of  tomorrow,  Easter  Sunday — the 
Savior  died  on  the  cross,  but  that  was 
not  the  end.  He  merely  laid  his  body 
down  to  be  healed  of  its  infirmities. 
It  was  the  cloak  that  covered  his  spirit. 
That  is  precisely  what  we  will  do.  Dur- 
ing those  three  days  that  his  body  lay 
in  the  tomb  he  was  active.  Peter  tells 
us: 

For  Christ  also  hath  once  suffered  for 
sins,  the  just  for  the  unjust,  that  he  might 
bring  us  to  God,  being  put  to  death  in  the 
flesh,  but  quickened  by  the  Spirit. 


By  which  also  he  went  and  preached  unto 
the  spirits  in  prison, 

Which  sometime  were  disobedient,  when 
once  the  longsuffering  of  God  waited  in  the 
days  of  Noah,  wherein  few,  that  is,  eight 
souls  were  saved  by  water.  (I  Peter  3:18-20.) 

Here  Jesus  was  again  teaching  them. 
How  beautifully  that  harmonizes  with 
the  message  of  hope  that  Brother  Clark 
has  given  us. 

Of  course,  we  have  to  repent  and 
make  amends,  but  there  is  this  message 
of  hope  because  God  wants  to  save  his 
children.  And  so  we  lay  our  bodies 
down.  The  Savior  laid  his  down,  but 
he  was  active  and  busy,  and  then  in 
three  days  he  took  it  up,  a  body  of  flesh 
and  bones.  It  doubtless  was  not  entirely 
healed.  The  scars  were  still  there.  He 
showed  them  to  the  doubting  disciples. 
".  .  .  handle  me,  and  see;"  he  said,  "for 
a  spirit  hath  not  flesh  and  bone;  as  ye 
see  me  have."  (Luke  24:39.) 

And  so  we  lay  our  coats  away.  These 
Brethren  whom  we  love  have  laid  theirs 
away,  but  not  their  spirits.  They  are 
active  on  the  other  side.  I  dare  say  that 
they  know  this  day  what  we  are  doing, 
and  they  may  be  near  us  as  we  meet 
today.  It  is  a  glorious  thought — this 
message  of  Easter  and  the  resurrection. 

Now,  the  other  lesson:  As  we  met  in 
the  final  services — we  were  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall  for  Brother  Thomas  E.  and 
Brother  Oscar,  and  here  in  this  Taber- 
nacle for  Brother  Bennion — we  were  all 
touched.  Our  hearts  were  mellowed. 
They  were  full  of  compassion.  Brethren 
and  sisters,  is  not  that  spirit  the  agency 
that  is  going  to  make  this  world  better 
prepared  for  the  second  coming  of  the 
Savior?  We  were  all  sympathetic  and 
thoughtful  of  those  in  sorrow  with  no 
unkindness  in  our  hearts.  To  me  that 
is  one  of  the  purposes  of  death.  We 
do  not  understand  all  of  its  purposes, 
but  there  is  a  refining  element,  a  healing 
balm  that  comes  from  the  sorrow  inci- 
dent to  the  passing  of  those  we  love. 

I  want  to  read  these  lines  from 
Catherine  Marshall,  who  wrote  so  feel- 
ingly after  her  husband's  passing.  Peter 
Marshall  had  been  Chaplain  of  the  U  S 
Senate  and  was  widely  known  for  his 
faith  and  integrity. 

For  the  first  time  I  understood  why  the 
Bible  speaks  of  God's  love  as  a  refiner's  fire, 


58  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  5 

which  burns  us  clean  but  does  not  consume. 
The  pain  of  parting  was  like  a  burning  flame 
in  my  heart,  but  it  was  a  cleansing,  refining 
action,  consuming  the  dross  and  leaving  the 
imperishable  part  of  me  intact  and  stronger 
than  ever  before.  (From  A  Man  Called 
Peter.) 

Is  not  that  what  these  experiences  do 
for  all  of  us?  And  it  is  true  whenever 
we  are  called  to  a  house  of  mourning. 
The  Lord  said,  "It  is  better  to  go  to  the 
house  of  mourning,  than  to  go  to  the 
house  of  feasting:  .  .  ."  (Ecc.  7:2.)  He 
knew  what  sorrow,  affliction,  and  death 
would  do  for  his  children,  and  we  know 
from  experience  what  they  do  for  us. 

You  multiply  that  attitude  of  sym- 
pathy and  thoughtfulness  throughout 
the  world — and  no  one  is  immune;  it  is 
an  experience  vouchsafed  to  everyone — 
and  you  will  comprehend  the  saving 
grace  that  lies  in  sorrow,  anguish,  and 
affliction.  The  Lord  knew  what  it 
would  mean  to  his  children;  how  such 
would  rekindle  in  the  hearts  of  men 
love,  sympathy,  and  greater  compassion 
and  thoughtfulness  toward  one  another. 


Second  Day 

Paul  wrote  of  Jesus,  "Though  he  were 
a  Son,  yet  learned  he  obedience  by  the 
things  which  he  suffered."  (Heb.  5:8.) 
Obedience  of  mind  and  of  soul!  We 
learn  obedience  of  the  soul,  and  we 
learn  to  harmonize  our  thinking  and 
our  feelings  with  all  that  is  good  because 
of  these  blessings,  and  then  with  these 
blessings  there  comes  a  glorious  blessing 
of  a  reuniting  as  there  came  the  glorious 
blessing  of  the  Savior  coming  back  to 
his  disciples  as  a  living  reality — the 
Resurrected  Lord. 

And  to  you  and  me  this  has  been  re- 
affirmed in  this  day  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  for  which  we  are  humbly  grate- 
ful to  our  Heavenly  Father.  In  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Clifford  E.  Young,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
Our  concluding  speaker  will  be  Elder 
Ezra  Taft  Benson,  a  member  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends, 
seen  and  unseen:  I  am  grateful  beyond 
my  power  of  expression  for  the  blessings 
of  this  conference.  I  have  in  my  pocket 
a  perfectly  good  manuscript  which  I 
feel  impressed  not  to  impose  upon  you 
today.  There  is  something  in  my  heart 
I  should  like  to  say  in  the  few  moments 
remaining  in  this  meeting. 

Like  some  of  my  Brethren  who  have 
referred  to  the  recent  passing  of  our 
three  beloved  associates,  I,  too,  miss 
them  deeply.  It  may  come  as  somewhat 
of  a  surprise  to  some  when  I  say  that 
Brother  Adam  S.  Bennion,  who  was 
older  than  he  appeared,  was  my  teacher. 
I  am  probably  younger  than  I  appear, 
but  Brother  Bennion  was  one  of  the 
truly  great  teachers  who  have  touched 
my  life. 

For  a  term  at  the  Alpine  summer 
school,  of  Brigham  Young  University, 
I  was  fortunate  enough  to  sit  at  the 
feet  of  Adam  S.  Bennion  in  a  course  that 
I  shall  never  forget — a  course  in  biog- 


raphy. I  remember  the  term  paper 
which  he  assigned  to  us.  It  caused  us 
to  turn  the  searchlight  on  our  own  lives. 
The  subject  was  "Why  I  Am  What  I 
Am."  Under  his  stimulating  direction 
that  group  of  students  searched  their 
souls  for  the  influences  that  had  come 
into  their  lives,  the  examples  that  had 
been  set  them,  the  temptations  that  had 
crossed  their  paths,  and  the  influences  of 
the  Church  and  of  good  men  and 
women.  I  still  have  that  term  paper; 
I  am  grateful  to  Brother  Bennion  that  he 
turned  my  thoughts  inward  and  made 
me  analyze  my  own  life  and  the  influ- 
ences which  had  affected  the  life  of  a 
young  man  up  to  that  time.  I  am  grate- 
ful for  the  contribution  which  he  made 
as  one  of  the  great  teachers  of  the 
Church.  My  life  has  been  enriched.  He 
helped  inspire  me  to  seek  the  good 
things  which  I  enjoy. 

I  had  the  glorious  privilege  of  travel- 
ing to  stake  conferences  with  Brother 
Thomas  E.  McKay.    I  think  I  never 


ELDER  EZRA 

met  a  sweeter,  more  humble,  and  more 
beloved  man.  He  was  good  to  be  with. 
I  loved  him.  My  life  has  been  enriched 
through  my  association  with  Thomas 
E.  McKay. 

As  an  MIA  worker  I  was  stimulated 
and  inspired  as  a  boy,  and  later  as  a 
stake  superintendent  of  the  YMMIA  by 
Brother  Oscar  A.  Kirkham.  He  had  the 
power  to  inspire  youth  and  their  leaders 
to  noble  achievement.  I  loved  him  as  he 
loved  the  youth  of  the  Church. 

God  bless  the  memory  of  these  three 
noble  souls  whom  we  miss  so  much  to- 
day. The  world  is  a  better  place  to  live 
because  they  lived  in  it.  I  hope  to  live 
worthy  to  meet  them  in  the  eternal 
world. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  love  the 
Church  and  all  that  pertains  to  it.  It 
has  been  my  pleasure  in  the  last  few 
years  to  mingle  with  many  people  in 
and  out  of  the  Church.  I  am  very 
grateful  for  the  spirit  of  brotherhood 
and  fellowship  which  we  find  in  the 
Church.  This  spirit  is  a  somewhat  in- 
tangible thing.  It  is  difficult  to  de- 
scribe. But  it  is  real — powerful — sweet. 
You  have  to  feel  it  to  appreciate  it. 

Recently  with  my  wife,  two  daughters, 
and  members  of  my  staff,  I  made  a  world 
trade  trip  which  took  me  into  fourteen 
countries.  In  most  of  these  countries 
I  was  very  proud  and  happy  to  meet 
members  of  the  Church.  They  were  at 
the  airports  to  welcome  us  and  bid  us 
farewell  as  we  departed.  Several  groups 
came  to  the  embassies  to  see  us. 

In  far-off  Japan  it  was  a  joy  to  join 
with  some  four  hundred  Japanese  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  in  a  Sunday  morning 
service.  We  rejoiced  to  have  the  privi- 
lege to  meet  with  our  Mormon  service- 
men, some  of  whom  had  traveled  a 
thousand  miles  to  attend  meetings  on 
the  Sabbath  day.  I  will  long  remember 
the  meeting  with  the  Saints  in  Hong 
Kong,  some  of  them  refugees  from  Red 
China,  and  the  spirit  present  as  I  met 
with  local  and  full-time  missionaries, 
and  mingled  with  the  Saints.  We  met 
with  groups  of  the  Saints  in  Turkey, 
in  Greece,  in  Spain,  in  France,  in  Eng- 
land. Yes,  even  in  the  country  of  Jor- 
dan we  met  a  family  or  two  of  the 
Saints  in  a  Union  Sunday  School,  a 
Christian  Sunday  School  attended  by 


TAFT  BENSON  59 

many  fine  people  of  various  faiths.  I 
had  the  glorious  privilege  of  addressing 
the  group,  and  I  was  very  pleased  to 
find  in  the  leadership  of  the  Sunday 
School  a  member  of  the  Church  living 
the  gospel,  promoting  the  kingdom 
through  example  and  through  word  of 
mouth. 

I  had  many  pleasant  gospel  con- 
versations. Good  people — heads  of 
states  and  other  high  officials  in  India, 
Pakistan,  Jordan,  Israel,  Italy,  Portugal, 
and  other  countries  showed  sincere  in- 
terest in  the  Church  and  its  people. 
Much  Church  literature  has  been  mailed 
to  new-found,  good  friends  around  the 
world.  Their  hospitality  and  friendli- 
ness will  never  be  forgotten.  Although 
we  felt  especially  close  to  members  of 
the  Church,  we  were  impressed  with  the 
fact  that  people  everywhere  are  essen- 
tially good.  They  long  for  peace.  They 
love  their  families  and  seek  to  improve 
themselves  and  raise  their  standards  of 
living.  I  came  back  with  a  greater  love 
for  all  of  God's  children — for  he  has 
truly  "made  of  one  blood  all  nations." 

So,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  as  I  travel 
about  the  world,  it  is  a  glorious  thing  to 
note  how  the  Church  is  growing  and 
increasing.  One  very  fine  leader  of  a 
foreign  state,  when  I  asked  him  if  there 
were  any  Mormons  in  his  particular 
capital  city,  said:  "Mr.  Secretary,  I  have 
traveled  a  great  deal,  and  I  have  come 
to  believe  that  the  Mormons  are  every- 
where. Wherever  I  go,  I  find  them." 
His  statement  called  to  mind  an  incident 
when  we  first  moved  to  Washington, 
back  in  1939  or  1940.  I  had  gone 
to  my  office  early  to  get  some  work 
done  before  the  telephones  started  ring- 
ing. I  had  just  seated  myself  at  the 
desk  when  the  telephone  rang.  The 
man  at  the  other  end  said,  "I  would 
like  to  have  lunch  with  you  today.  I 
am  a  stranger  to  you,  but  I  have  some- 
thing that  is  very  urgent."  I  consented 
reluctantly,  and  a  few  hours  later  we 
faced  each  other  across  a  luncheon  table 
at  a  downtown  hotel. 

He  said,  "I  suppose  you  wonder  why 
I  have  invited  you  here."  Then  he 
added:  "Last  week  as  I  came  out  of  a 
luncheon  meeting  in  Chicago,  I  told 
some  of  my  business  associates  that  I 
had  been  given  the  responsibility  of 


60 

Saturday,  April  5 

coming  down  to  Washington,  D.  C,  to 
establish  an  office  and  employ  a  man 
to  represent  our  corporation."  Then  he 
listed  some  of  the  assets  in  his  great 
business  organization.  He  said,  "I  be- 
gan telling  my  associates  of  the  kind 
of  young  man  I  would  like  to  represent 
us  in  this  office  in  Washington.  First 
of  all,  I  said  to  my  associates,  I  wanted 
a  man  of  sterling  character.  You  know, 
where  there  isn't  character  there  isn't 
much  that  is  worth  while.  I  would  like 
a  man  who  is  honest,  a  man  of  real 
integrity,  a  man  who  lives  a  clean  life, 
who  is  clean  morally,  who,  if  married, 
is  a  devoted  husband,  and  who,  if  un- 
married, is  not  chasing  lewd  women." 
He  said,  "I  would  like  a  man  who 
doesn't  drink,  and  if  possible  I  would 
prefer  to  get  a  man  who  doesn't  even 
smoke.  One  of  my  business  associates 
spoke  up  and  said,  Well,  what  you  want 
is  a  returned  Mormon  missionary.'  I 
had  heard  of  your  Church,"  he  said.  "In 
fact,  I  recall  two  young  men  in  dark 
suits  calling  at  our  home  some  months 
ago.  As  I  rode  down  here  on  the  train 
last  night,  I  decided  that  maybe  a  re- 
turned Mormon  missionary  was  exactly 
what  I  needed.  Why  not?  So  as  I 
registered  at  the  hotel  here  last  night  I 
said  to  the  man  at  the  desk,  'Are  there 
any  Mormons  in  Washington?'  And 
the  man  at  the  desk  said,  'I  don't  know, 
I  suppose  there  are.  They  seem  to  be 
everywhere.  But  Mr.  Bush,  the  man- 
ager, is  here,  and  I'll  ask  him.'  He 
asked  Mr.  Bush  and  gave  me  your  name. 
Now  that  is  why  I  have  invited  you 
here.  Can  you  give  me  the  names  of 
three  or  four  young  men  who  meet  the 
standards  which  I  have  just  outlined?" 

Well,  of  course  it  was  not  difficult 
to  give  him  the  names  of  three  or  four 
or  a  dozen  who  fully  met  the  standards 
he  outlined.  I  mention  this,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters  and  friends,  because  in 
the  Church  we  have  certain  standards, 
standards  of  living,  standards  of  moral- 
ity, standards  of  character  which  are 
coming  to  be  well  known  to  the  world. 
These  standards  are  admired.  People 
with  such  standards  are  sought  after. 
These  standards  are  based  upon  true, 
eternal  principles.  They  are  eternal 
verities. 

In  the  Church  we  have  no  fear  that 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

any  future  discovery  of  new  truths  will 
ever  be  in  conflict  with  these  standards 
— with  any  fundamental  basic  principle 
which  we  advocate  in  the  gospel.  Truth 
is  always  consistent.  This  fact  gives  to 
us,  as  members  of  the  Church,  a  feeling 
of  great  security,  a  feeling  of  peace,  a 
feeling  of  assurance.  We  know  beyond 
any  question  that  the  truths  which  we 
advocate,  the  truths  of  the  gospel  re- 
stored to  the  earth  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  are  in  very  deed  the  truths  of 
heaven.  These  truths  will  always  be 
consistent  with  the  discovery  of  any  new 
truths,  whether  discovered  in  the  labora- 
tory, through  research  of  the  scientist, 
or  whether  revealed  from  heaven 
through  prophets  of  God.  Time  is  al- 
ways on  the  side  of  truth. 

I  am  grateful  for  this  assurance.  I 
am  grateful  for  the  knowledge  which  I 
have  regarding  the  purpose  of  life,  re- 
garding the  meaning  of  life,  regarding 
the  truths  of  the  restored  gospel.  At 
this  Easter  season  I  would  like  to  join 
my  testimony  to  the  testimonies  of  my 
Brethren  which  have  already  been 
borne,  and  those  that  will  be  borne  in 
the  remaining  sessions  of  this  confer- 
ence. 

In  a  world  filled  with  doubt  I  am 
grateful  for  the  knowledge  which  I 
have  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  in 
very  deed  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
the  Savior  of  mankind;  that  that  beauti- 
ful story  which  President  Clark  related 
here  this  morning  is  in  very  deed  the 
account  of  the  crucifixion  and  the  resur- 
rection of  Jesus  the  Christ,  the  Re- 
deemer of  mankind.  I  am  humbly 
grateful  for  the  knowledge  that  I  have 
that  God  the  Father  and  his  Son,  Jesus 
Christ,  as  glorified  beings  have  again 
come  to  this  earth  in  our  day,  in  this 
dispensation;  that  they  did  in  very  deed 
appear  unto  the  boy  prophet,  the  boy 
Joseph,  in  the  Sacred  Grove  in  1820. 
This  was  the  most  glorious  manifesta- 
tion of  God  the  Father  and  the  Son  of 
which  we  have  record.  It  is,  no  doubt, 
the  most  glorious  and  most  important 
event  that  has  transpired  in  this  world 
since  the  resurrection  of  the  Master. 
It  is  of  world-wide  significance. 

I  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters  and  friends,  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  and  is  a  Prophet  of  the  Living  God, 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


61 


an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  in 
revealing  to  earth  again  the  truths  of 
the  everlasting  gospel,  in  bringing  back 
the  priesthood,  the  authority  to  act  in 
God's  name. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  privilege  of  liv- 
ing in  this  day  when  the  gospel  is  again 
upon  the  earth  in  its  purity,  in  its  ful- 
ness, and  that  we  are  permitted  to  enjoy 
the  fruits  of  the  gospel  through  member- 
ship in  the  Church  and  kingdom  of 
God.  This  is  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ.  He  stands  at  its  head.  We 
serve  him  in  striving  to  build  up  his 
kingdom,  and  in  promoting  the  cause 
of  truth  throughout  all  the  world. 

God  bless  us,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, and  hasten  the  day  when  the  gos- 
pel will  touch  the  lives  and  the  hearts 
of  all  God's  children  in  all  lands,  that 
they  too  may  know  of  the  sweets  of 
the  gospel,  and  the  blessing  of  a  testi- 
mony of  the  truth,  I  humbly  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  speaker  to  whom  you  have  just 
listened  is  Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  a 
member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

The  combined  Choruses  of  the  Logan 
Latter-day    Saints    Institute    and  the 


Utah  State  University  will  now  favor 
us  with,  "The  Lord  Bless  You  and 
Keep  You,"  conducted  by  James  L. 
Bradley.  The  closing  prayer  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  Jared  O.  Anderson, 
president  of  the  North  Pocatello  Stake, 
after  which  this  Conference  will  be  ad- 
journed until  2  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

As  already  announced  to  the  audi- 
ence, the  singing  for  this  session  has 
been  furnished  by  the  Combined  Chor- 
uses of  the  Logan  Latter-day  Saints 
Institute  and  the  Utah  State  University, 
consisting  of  300  voices,  with  Profes- 
sor Bradley  conducting.  Frank  W. 
Asper  has  been  at  the  organ.  We  ap- 
preciate very  much  what  these  young 
people  have  done.  They  left  Logan 
this  morning,  came  down  in  buses,  and 
are  furnishing  the  music  for  this  oc- 
casion. They  will  be  with  us  this  after- 


Selection  by  the  Combined  Choruses 
of  the  Logan  Latter-day  Saints  Institute 
and  the  Utah  State  University,  "The 
Lord  Bless  You  and  Keep  You." 

Elder  Jared  O.  Anderson,  president  of 
the  North  Pocatello  Stake,  pronounced 
the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.  m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference 
was  held  in  the  Tabernacle  at  2  o'clock 
p.m.,  Saturday,  April  5,  with  President 
David  O.  McKay  presiding  and  con- 
ducting. 

The  music  for  this  session  was  furn- 
ished by  the  Combined  Choruses  of  the 
Logan  Latter-day  Saints  Institute  and 
the  Utah  State  University,  Alma  Dittmer 
conducting,  and  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the 
organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

To  those  who  are  listening  in  we  are 
pleased  to  announce  that  we  are  as- 
sembled in  the  great  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City  in  the 
Fourth  Session  of  the  128th  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church   of  Jesus 


Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  For  those 
who  are  unable  to  gain  admittance  or 
obtain  seats  here  in  the  Tabernacle, 
and  we  note  many  who  are  standing  in 
the  doorways,  we  announce  that  over- 
flow meetings  are  held  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall,  where  these 
services  are  being  broadcast  by  tele- 
vision. This  session  of  the  Conference 
will  be  broadcast  as  a  public  service 
over  television  and  radio  stations 
throughout  the  West.  The  names  of 
the  stations  have  just  been  announced. 
We  deeply  appreciate  this  service  which 
is  rendered,  and  I  am  sure  the  public 
is  profiting  greatly  thereby,  and  offi- 
cially join  in  this  appreciation. 

The  singing  for  this  afternoon  will 
be  furnished  by  the  Combined  Choruses 
of  the  Logan  Latter-day  Saints  Institute 


62 

Saturday,  April  5 

and  the  Utah  State  University,  con- 
ducted by  Alma  Dittmer,  with  Elder 
Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Combined  Choruses  singing,  "The  Heav- 
ens Are  Telling."  The  opening  prayer 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  Raymond  J. 
Pace,  president  of  the  Farr  West  Stake. 

An  anthem,  "The  Heavens  Are  Tell- 
ing," was  sung  by  the  Combined  Chorus- 
es, after  which  Elder  Raymond  J.  Pace, 
president  of  the  Farr  West  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Raymond  J.  Pace,  president  of 
the  Farr  West  Stake,  has  offered  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

invocation.  The  Combined  Choruses 
will  now  sing,  "Awake,  Ye  Saints  of 
God,  Awake,"  under  direction  of  Alma 
Dittmer. 

Following  the  Chorus,  we  shall  hear 
from  Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle. 


The  Combined  Choruses  sang  the 
hymn,  "Awake,  Ye  Saints  of  God, 
Awakel" 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  first  speak- 
er. He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Levi 
Edgar  Young. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Heber  J.  Grant  once  said  at  Brigham 
Young  University: 

"This  Church  is  founded  upon  the 
statement  'the  glory  of  God  is  intelli- 
gence.' In  addition  to  that,  in  this 
school  we  are  seeking  to  implant  in  the 
hearts  of  the  young  men  and  women 
an  absolute  testimony  of  Jesus  Christ 
and  of  the  restitution  again  to  the  earth 
of  the  plan  of  salvation." 

Men  cannot  be  saved  in  ignorance. 
What  a  glorious  understanding  of  life 
these  eternal  truths  give  to  us.  The 
leaders  of  the  Church  from  the  begin- 
ning have  pursued  a  consistent  course 
in  endeavoring  to  give  life  to  these 
truths.  We  can  be  justly  proud  of  our 
accomplishments  in  seeking  to  educate 
our  youth  in  the  eternal  principles  of 
the  gospel. 

As  early  as  1832  in  Kirtland  the  Lord 
directed  his  people  to  establish  the 
school  of  the  prophets.  The  Lord  said 
in  part: 

.  .  .  the  school  of  the  prophets,  estab- 
lished for  their  instruction  in  all  things 
that  are  expedient  for  them,  even  for  all 
the  officers  of  the  church,  or  in  other  words 
those  who  are  called  to  the  ministry  in  the 
church,  beginning  at  the  high  priests,  even 
down  to  the  deacons—  (D  &  C  88:127.) 

From  the  day  of  the  establishment  of 
the  school  of  the  prophets  and  later  the 


school  of  the  elders  until  now,  we  have 
never  stood  still. 

The  organization  of  the  Relief  Society 
is  nearly  as  old  as  the  Church.  What 
wisdom  and  foresight  inspired  our  lead- 
ers to  educate  and  train  our  women  for 
the  responsibilities  of  motherhood,  to 
develop  their  minds  and  qualify  them- 
selves to  teach  their  children  and  in- 
spire them  to  gain  wisdom  and  under- 
standing in  their  generation!  So  today 
we  view  with  the  just  pride  of  accom- 
plishment the  work  of  all  our  auxiliary 
organizations. 

Sisters  who  are  actively  engaged  in 
Relief  Society  work  and  who  have  been 
blessed  by  it,  are  the  ones  who  take  the 
little  children  to  Primary  when  they 
are  six  years  of  age.  They  encourage 
them  to  follow  through  and  to  gradu- 
ate from  Primary.  The  boys  are  there 
prepared  and  qualified  to  enter  into 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood  and  receive  the 
blessings  and  powers  incident  thereto, 
the  young  girls,  with  the  young  boys, 
to  pursue  their  week-time  Church  ac- 
tivities in  the  Mutual  Improvement  As- 
sociations. 

These  same  Relief  Society  sisters  are 
the  mothers  who  uniformly  throughout 
the  Church  take  their  families  to  Sunday 
School  where  parents  and  children,  the 
entire  family,  join  in  studying  the  prin- 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


63 


ciples  of  the  gospel  and  worship  God 
on  the  Sabbath  day. 

How  grateful  we  all  are  for  our  par- 
ents whose  kindly  insistence  and  per- 
suasion gave  us  the  benefits  of  all  these 
great  organizations.  Thus  we  had  in- 
stilled in  our  hearts  the  love  of  the  re- 
stored gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

All  our  activities  in  the  Church  tend 
to  develop  our  minds  and  increase  our 
understandings.  In  all  our  work  we  are 
called  upon  to  participate.  We  speak, 
we  sing,  we  pray — each  in  his  own  indi- 
vidual right  entitled  to  take  part  in 
every  appropriate  activity. 

We  understand  that  man  cannot  be 
saved  in  ignorance. 

We  cannot  overlook  the  great  work 
which  is  accomplished  in  our  priest- 
hood quorums,  where  every  man  is 
taught  to  be  his  brother's  keeper,  where 
the  necessity  exists  for  us  to  know  the 
gospel,  to  be  capable  of  fulfilling  our 
responsibilities  in  the  priesthood,  finally 
to  go  into  the  mission  field  prepared  to 
deliver  the  message  of  truth  and  light 
to  the  world.  This  is  our  crowning 
achievement. 

Our  Sacrament  meetings  are  sacred 
gatherings  where  we  partake  of  the  Sac- 
rament of  the  Lord's  Supper  and  meet 
thus  to  renew  our  covenants  and  to 
worship  God.  Here  we  are  likewise  in- 
spired to  learn.  It  is  in  these  gatherings, 
with  their  rich  outpouring  of  the  spirit 
of  the  Lord,  that  we  learn  some  of  the 
greatest  truths  of  the  gospel  from  the 
lips  of  our  inspired  ward  and  stake 
leaders.  In  our  quarterly  conferences, 
which  are  intended  for  all,  the  instruc- 
tions of  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church  are  received. 

Now  the  experience  of  one  hundred 
and  thirty  years  has  taught  us  that 
over  and  above  and  beyond  all  these 
opportunities  for  learning,  unexcelled 
as  they  are,  there  is  a  need  for  a 
more  intensive,  detailed  study  of  the 
Church.  Born  of  these  needs  of  the 
past  is  our  present  Unified  Church 
School  System.  I  can  speak  with  feel- 
ing and  a  deep  sense  of  appreciation  for 
what  the  Church  schools  did  for  me. 
I  wish  every  Latter-day  Saint  boy  and 
girl  the  same  glorious  experience.  The 
spirit  of  our  Church  schools  is  con- 
tagious.   It  is  wonderful  to  be  a  part 


of  a  student  body  where  all  teachers 
and  students  alike  are  dedicated  to  their 
work  with  like  ideals,  ambitions,  and 
understanding  of  life,  determined  to  ful- 
fil life's  destinies  to  the  fullest  extent, 
where  confidence  in  one  another  reigns, 
a  brotherhood  of  man  recognizing  the 
Fatherhood  of  God,  an  atmosphere  of 
righteousness  and  virtue  where  trust 
and  confidence  abide. 

"If  men  do  not  comprehend  the  char- 
acter of  God,  they  do  not  comprehend 
themselves."  (Joseph  F.  Smith.) 

For  the  most  part,  it  can  be  said  that 
those  who  attend  our  Church  institu- 
tions of  learning  have  been  inspired  to 
do  so  as  a  result  of  the  training  and 
inspiration  they  received  in  the  Primary 
and  Sunday  School  and  Mutuals,  en- 
couraged by  mothers  trained  in  the  Re- 
lief Society  and  fathers  active  in  the 
priesthood.  It  is  the  co-operation  of 
parents  and  students  that  accomplishes 
our  full  purpose. 

Our  children  are  entitled  as  a  matter 
of  right  to  our  encouragement,  patience, 
perseverance.  Likely  no  people  have 
received  such  a  challenge  as  is  ours. 

The  Lord  has  said: 

And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents  have  chil- 
dren in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her  stakes  which 
are  organized,  that  teach  them  not  to  un- 
derstand the  doctrine  of  repentance,  faith 
in  Christ  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  and 
of  baptism  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands,  when  eight 
years  old  the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of 
the  parents. 

For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the  in- 
habitants of  Zion  or  in  any  of  her  stakes 
which  are  organized. 

And  they  shall  also  teach  their  children 
to  pray  and  to  walk  uprightly  before  the 
Lord.  (D  &  C  68:25-26,  28.) 

The  Unified  Church  School  System 
can  play  a  great  part  in  helping  us  ful- 
fil our  duty  to  our  children.  It  is  in 
our  weekday  schoolwork,  whether  it  be 
seminary,  institute,  college,  or  univer- 
sity, that  we  can  in  large  measure  make 
up  for  the  deficiency  in  all  other  ac- 
tivities, a  wonderful  systematic  presen- 
tation of  religion,  our  own  and  other 
religions  as  well.  We  believe  it  impor- 
tant to  know  the  history  of  religion 
generally,  the  origin,  purpose,  and  prac- 
tice of  the  religions  of  the  world  with 
which  we  are  surrounded  and  with 


64 

Saturday,  April  S 

which  we  come  in  contact  throughout 
life.  We  believe  the  greater,  the  more 
general  our  knowledge  is,  the  freer  we 
become  and  the  more  intelligent  the  use 
we  make  of  our  free  agency. 

We  are  called  upon  daily  to  judge,  to 
decide,  to  determine  for  ourselves  the 
innumerable  problems  that  arise  in  our 
lives  and  the  lives  of  our  families  and 
friends. 

If  we  are  familiar  with  the  basic  prin- 
ciples of  the  gospel,  our  decisions  are 
far  more  likely  to  be  based  on  truth 
rather  than  error. 

See  Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith: 

The  cause  of  God  is  one  common  cause, 
in  which  the  Saints  are  alike  all  interested; 
we  are  all  members  of  the  one  common 
body,  and  all  partake  of  the  same  spirit, 
and  are  baptized  into  one  baptism  and 
possess  alike  the  same  glorious  hope.  The 
advancement  of  the  cause  of  God  and  the 
building  up  of  Zion  is  as  much  one  man's 
business  as  another's.  The  only  difference 
is  that  one  is  called  to  fulfil  one  duty,  and 
another  another  duty;  "but  if  one  member 
suffers,  all  the  members  suffer  with  it,  and 
if  one  member  is  honored,  all  the  rest  re- 
joice with  it,  and  the  eye  cannot  say  to  the 
ear,  I  have  no  need  of  thee,  nor  the  head 
to  the  foot  I  have  no  need  of  thee;"  party 
feelings,  separate  interests,  exclusive  de- 
signs should  be  lost  sight  of  in  the  one 
common  cause,  in  the  interest  of  the  whole. 
(Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
page  231.) 

The  Prophet  further  said: 

This  is  a  work  destined  to  bring  about  the 
destruction  of  the  powers  of  darkness,  the 
renovation  of  the  earth,  the  glory  of  God 
and  the  salvation  of  the  human  family. 

John  Taylor  once  said: 

We  want  ...  to  be  alive  in  the  cause  of 
education.  .  .  .  And  instead  of  doing  as 
many  of  the  world  do,  take  the  works  of 
God  to  try  to  prove  that  there  is  no  God, 
we  want  to  prove  by  God's  works  that  he 
does  exist,  that  he  lives  and  rules  and  holds 
us,  as  it  were,  in  the  hollow  of  his  hand. 

And  then  we  want  to  study  also  the  prin- 
ciples of  education,  and  to  get  the  very  best 
teachers  we  can  to  teach  our  children;  see 
that  they  are  men  and  women  who  fear 
God  and  keep  his  commandments.  .  .  .  Let 
others  who  fear  not  God  take  their  course; 
but  it  is  for  us  to  train  our  children  up  in 
the  fear  of  God.  God  will  hold  us  responsi- 
ble for  this  trust.  .  .  . 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

You  will  see  the  day  that  Zion  will  be  far 
ahead  of  the  outside  world  in  everything 
pertaining  to  learning  of  every  kind  as  we 
are  today  in  regard  to  religious  matters. 
You  mark  my  words,  and  write  them  down, 
and  see  if  they  do  not  come  to  pass.  We 
are  not  dependent  upon  them,  but  we  are 
upon  the  Lord.  We  did  not  get  our  priest- 
hood nor  our  information  in  regard  to  his 
law  from  them.  It  came  from  God.  .  .  . 
(The  Gospel  Kingdom,  pages  274-5.) 

Heber  J.  Grant  stated: 

There  is  one  thing,  and  only  one  thing 
that  church  schools  should  do,  and  that 
is  to  make  Latter-day  Saints. 

We  are  prepared  to  take  care  of  the 
religious  training  of  every  Latter-day 
Saint  boy  and  girl  who  lives  within  the 
areas  where  seminaries,  institutes,  col- 
leges, and  universities  of  the  Church 
have  been  instituted.  There  are  few 
if  any  places  within  the  organized  stakes 
of  Zion  that  need  be  without  appropri- 
ate religious  training  for  their  families 
if  they  so  desire.  We  are  constantly 
expanding  our  seminaries  and  institutes. 

We  are  confident  as  General  Authori- 
ties of  the  Church  that  we  have  pretty 
well  done  our  part  within  the  limits  of 
our  current  income. 

We  realize  the  economic  waste  when 
all  do  not  participate.  Serious  as  this 
is,  it  cannot  be  compared  with  our  spir- 
itual loss.  Measured  by  any  conceivable 
standard,  graduates  of  our  seminaries 
and  institutes  are  better  qualified  to 
meet  all  of  life's  problems  than  those 
who  have  absented  themselves  from 
these  opportunities.  Some  of  these 
problems  to  which  I  specially  refer  are: 

1 —  Schoolwork 

2 —  Professional  study 

3 —  Compulsory  military  service 

4 —  Competitive  employment 

5 —  Missionary  labors— stake  and  for- 
eign 

6 —  Marriage 

7 —  Parenthood 

8—  Politics 

9—  Church 

Better  take  an  extra  year  of  high 
school  than  miss  such  an  essential  basic 
preparation  for  our  life's  work. 

Every  returned  missionary  realizes  the 
importance  of  a  Church  school  educa- 
tion. Those  who  go  on  missions  first 
invariably  come  home  with  a  desire  to 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


65 


learn  more,  both  in  their  academic 
studies  and  of  the  gospel.  Last  year 
we  had  over  1300  returned  missionaries 
at  Brigham  Young  University  and  large 
numbers  registered  in  our  institutes  at 
other  great  seats  of  learning. 

Each  of  the  student  body  presidents 
at  Brigham  Young  University  for  the 
past  six  years  has  been  a  returned  mis- 
sionary. 

Our  seminary  attendance  has  in- 
creased 26.6  percent  in  four  years. 

Another  important  detail.  Our  divi- 
sion of  religion  in  our  educational 
system  has  been  organized  to  train  and 
direct  stake  missionaries.  In  one  school, 
out  of  a  student  body  of  400  nonmem- 
bers,  60  were  converted  and  baptized  in 
a  year. 

There  may  be  some  problems,  some 
obstacles,  some  inconveniences  in  en- 
deavoring to  register  for  and  attend 
seminary  and  institute  classes  regularly. 
It  is  the  things  in  life  for  which  we  are 
compelled  to  struggle  that  generally  are 
worth  the  most  to  us  in  the  long  run. 
The  fruits  of  our  educational  system 
can  be  observed  in  the  lives  and  ac- 
complishments of  our  graduates  from 
seminaries,  institutes,  and  schools.  A 
recent  survey  showed  87  percent  of  a 
group  of  graduates  married  in  the  tem- 
ple and  another  6  or  7  percent  later 
sealed  to  each  other  for  time  and  for  all 
eternity. 

Brigham  Young  in  the  Deed  of  Trust 
to  the  BYU  in  1875  wrote: 

That  the  pupils  shall  be  instructed  in 
such  branches  as  are  usually  taught  in  an 
academy  of  learning,  also  in  the  Old  and 
New  Testaments,  Book  of  Mormon,  and 
Doctrine  and  Covenants. 

Brigham  Young  said  to  Karl  G. 
Maeser: 

I  want  you  to  remember  that  you  ought 
not  to  teach  even  the  alphabet  or  the  multi- 
plication tables  without  the  spirit  of  God. 
That  is  all.  God  bless  you. 

Academic  rank  among  our  teachers 
in  the  Church  school  system  depends 
upon 

1 — Personal  qualities,  including  atti- 
tude toward  and  adherence  to  the  prin- 
ciples and  teachings  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 


2 —  Worth  as  a  teacher. 

3 —  Academic  scholarship  and  compe- 
tence, degrees  and  distinction. 

4 —  Achievement  and  competence  in 
scientific  research,  philosophic  investi- 
gation, artistic  production,  or  other 
professional  endeavors. 

5 —  Public  service  to  Church  and  com- 
munity. 

To  assist  in  building  up  our  Unified 
Church  School  System  we  have  organ- 
ized district,  stake,  and  ward  education 
committees: 

1 —  To  contact  during  the  summer  all 
students  of  high  school  and  college  age 
and  persuade  them  to  enroll  in  semin- 
aries and  institutes. 

2 —  To  act  as  a  transportation  commit- 
tee to  create  ward  transportation  pools 
to  transport  students  from  home  to 
seminary  classes;  to  encourage  all  stu- 
dents away  from  home  to  enter  into 
active  participation  in  the  Church;  to 
give  bishop  or  branch  president  names 
of  all  students  moving  into  his  area. 

Stake,  and  in  some  places  district, 
boards  are  organized  to  meet  regularly 
with  seminary  and  institute  personnel. 

Acquaint  stake  and  ward  officers  with 
details  of  the  Church  educational  sys- 
tem, inviting  them  to  be  active  in  the 
support  and  direction  of  its  program. 

We  as  Latter-day  Saints  should  learn 
to  stand  alone.  We  should  insure  our 
children  doing  likewise  in  their  genera- 
tion. We  have  all  been  instructed  of 
the  Lord  to  act  for  ourselves  in  whatever 
sphere  God  places  us.  We  have  been 
instructed  of  the  Lord  to  be  a  free  peo- 
ple. 

Wherefore,  hear  my  voice  and  follow  me, 
and  you  shall  be  a  free  people,  and  ye  shall 
have  no  laws  but  my  laws  when  I  come,  for 
I  am  your  lawgiver,  and  what  can  stay  my 
hand?  (D  &  C  38:22;  78:14.) 

The  Lord  has  said: 

That  through  my  providence,  notwith- 
standing the  tribulation  which  shall  descend 
upon  you,  that  the  church  may  stand  inde- 
pendent above  all  other  creatures  beneath 
the  celestial  world.  (Ibid.,  78:14.) 

With  the  knowledge  of  our  destiny 
and  our  purpose  on  earth,  we  readily 
understand  the  great  emphasis  placed 


66 

Saturday,  April  5 

by  the  Church  on  the  education  of  our 
youth. 

It  should  need  no  argument  for  those 
of  us  who  are  grounded  in  the  faith  to 
accept  without  hesitancy  the  great  edu- 
cational program  prescribed,  prepared, 
and  made  available  for  our  people  by 
our  great  leaders.  The  First  Presidency 
stand  at  the  head  of  our  Unified  Church 
School  System.  How  could  they  en- 
courage us  more  than  they  do  to  accept 
and  utilize  that  which  they  prepare  for 
us? 

Again  the  Lord  has  said: 

And  whatsoever  they  shall  speak  when 
moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost  shall  be 
scripture,  shall  be  the  will  of  the  Lord,  shall 
be  the  mind  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  word 
of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  voice  of  the  Lord, 
and  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation. 

Behold,  this  is  the  promise  of  the  Lord 
unto  you,  O  ye  my  servants.  (Ibid.,  68:4-5.) 

Great  strength  is  given  us  by  the 
knowledge  we  have  of  the  inspiration 
which  directs  our  leaders. 

A  weekday  religious  training  is  the 
ideal  established  for  us  all.  These  daily 
classes  do  much  toward  inspiring  our 
youth  to  follow  onward  and  upward  to 
obtain  an  education  far  beyond  that 
which  they  might  otherwise  be  expected 
to  attain. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

No  other  time,  no  other  effort  in  our 
school  careers  will  bless  us  more  than 
our  Church  schoolwork.  Faith,  devotion, 
stability,  ambition  will  be  engendered 
in  our  hearts  by  the  study  of  the  gospel 
under  men  who  hold  the  priesthood, 
inspired  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  dedi- 
cated to  the  development  of  intellects 
and  the  establishment  of  virtue  in  the 
hearts  and  lives  of  their  students. 

I  attended  a  wonderful  seminary  meet- 
ing in  Canada  last  Saturday,  just  at  this 
time,  and  the  co-ordinator  there  gave 
this  instruction  to  those  seminary  teach- 
ers: "Go  out  and  tell  the  students  and 
the  parents  that  if  they  have  to  take  an 
extra  year  of  high  school  in  order  to 
get  in  seminary  that  it  will  be  worth 
more  than  all  else  to  them." 

May  God  bless  us  to  appreciate  the 
privileges  and  the  opportunities  afforded 
us  in  this  great  institutional  system,  I 
pray  humbly  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young 
of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  will  be 
our  next  speaker.  He  wlil  be  followed 
by  Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


I  pray  that  I  may  say  a  few  words  that 
will  be  helpful  in  connection  with  the 
great  ideals  that  we  have  already  heard 
during  this  conference. 

I  want  to  mention  very  briefly  ari  or- 
ganization in  America  known  as  "The 
America-Christian  Palestine  Commit- 
tee," of  which  I  have  the  honor  of  being 
a  member  with  Right  Reverend  Arthur 
W.  Moulton  of  the  Episcopal  Church. 
The  two  of  us  are  on  the  executive  com- 
mittee of  this  great  organization.  There 
are  over  two  hundred  different  religious 
sects  in  the  United  States,  and  many 
sects  here  in  Utah.  They  vary,  of 
course,  in  their  activities,  but  every 
group  follows  ideals  and  looks  to  God 
for  help. 

When  Christopher  Columbus  reached 
this  western  world  in  1492,  he  in  time 


expressed  to  the  king  and  queen  of  Spain 
that  he  was  "the  agent  in  the  hands  of 
God  to  go  forth  upon  the  mighty  wa- 
ters." According  to  Washington  Irving, 
Columbus  when  he  set  foot  on  the  is- 
land of  San  Salvador  uttered  the  fol- 
lowing prayer  in  Latin.  Translated  it 
reads: 

Oh  God,  our  eternal  Father,  eternal, 
eternally  an  omnipotent  creator  of  heaven 
and  earth  and  sea,  we  glorify  thy  holy 
word  for  our  protection  and  the  protection 
of  the  world. 

That  is  one  of  the  most  singular  state- 
ments that  could  possibly  be  made,  for 
it  has  been  carried  out  and  the  world 
has  been  blessed  with  an  organization 
which  is  for  the  world. 

The  words  of  Pastor  Robinson  recall 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


67 


what  Roger  Williams,  the  founder  of 
Providence,  Rhode  Island,  once  said. 
Williams  was  much  disturbed  as  to  his 
right  to  administer  the  ordinances  of  the 
church,  and  finally  he  came  to  the  con- 
clusion that  there  could  "be  no  recovery 
out  of  the  apostasy  till  Christ  shall  send 
forth  new  apostles  to  plant  churches 
anew." 

Edward  Winslow  was  the  third  signer 
of  the  Mayflower  Compact,  and  it  was 
he  who  recorded  the  following  parting 
words  of  Pastor  Robinson,  as  the  Pil- 
grims left  the  shore  of  Holland  for  their 
long  journey: 

Brethren,  we  are  now  quickly  to  part 
from  one  another,  and  whether  I  may  ever 
live  to  see  your  face  on  earth  any  more,  the 
God  of  Heaven  only  knows:  but  whether 
the  Lord  hath  appointed  that  or  not,  I 
charge  you  before  God  and  His  blessed 
angels,  that  you  follow  me  no  farther  than 
you  have  seen  me  follow  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  If  God  reveal  anything  to  you, 
by  any  other  instrument  of  His,  be  as 
ready  to  receive  it,  as  ever  you  were  to 
receive  truth,  by  my  ministry;  for  I  am 
fully  persuaded,  I  am  very  confident  that 
the  Lord  has  more  truth  yet  to  break  forth 
out  of  His  holy  word.  For  my  part,  I  cannot 
sufficiently  bewail  the  condition  of  the  re- 
formed churches,  who  are  come  to  a  period 
in  religion,  and  will  go  at  present  no 
further  than  the  instruments  of  their  refor- 
mation. The  Lutherans  cannot  be  drawn  to 
go  beyond  what  Luther  saw;  whatever  part 
of  his  will  or  good  God  has  revealed  to 
Calvin,  they  will  rather  die  than  embrace 
it,  and  the  Calvinists,  you  see,  stick  fast, 
where  they  were  left  by  that  great  man  of 
God,  who  yet  saw  not  all  things.  This  is  a 
misery  much  to  be  lamented;  for  though 
they  were  burning  and  shining  lights  in 
their  times,  yet  they  penetrated  not  into 
the  whole  counsel  of  God;  but  were  they 
now  living,  would  be  as  willing  to  em- 
brace further  light  as  that  which  they  at 
first  received.  I  beseech  you  to  remember 
it  as  an  article  in  your  church  Covenant. 
"That  you  be  ready  to  receive  whatever 
truth  shall  be  made  known  to  you  from 
the  written  word  of  God."  But  I  must  here- 
with exhort  you  to  take  heed  what  you  re- 
ceive as  truth.  Examine  it,  consider  it,  and 
compare  it  with  other  scriptures  of  truth, 
before  you  receive  it;  for  it  is  not  possible 
that  the  Christian  world  should  come  so 
lately  out  of  thick  anti-Christian  darkness, 
and  that  perfection  of  knowledge  should 
break  forth  at  once. 

It  is  interesting  to  know  that  God  has 
never  forsaken  his  children.  All  nations 


have  had  something  of  the  truths  of 
God. 

Carlyle  in  his  Heroes  and  Hero  Wor- 
ship notes  that  the 

calling  of  a  prophet,  the  Man  of  God,  the 
man,  that  is,  who  speaks  to  the  people  of 
God,  has  penetrated  into  the  secret  of  the 
sacred  mystery  of  the  Universe.  The  prophet 
is  the  revelator  of  what  we  are  to  do. 

Throughout  the  ages,  the  truths  of 
religion  have  become  closely  identified 
with  the  thoughts  and  habits  of  man- 
kind. Religion  in  the  most  intelligent 
use  of  the  term  confesses  the  divine  re- 
lationship between  man  and  his  God. 
It  is  more  than  knowledge  and  obedi- 
ence, for  its  home  is  in  the  deepest  na- 
ture of  man,  where,  in  its  allegiance  to 
truth  and  its  devotion  to  right,  it  gov- 
erns life. 

The  religious  principles  of  ancient  Is- 
rael brought  about  the  highest  system 
of  ethical  life,  which  to  this  day  remains 
the  most  vital  to  human  conduct.  The 
elements  the  Israelitish  character  ideal- 
ized were  the  homely  virtues  of  a  rustic 
people:  industry,  frugality,  chastity,  up- 
rightness; and  then  the  hardier  virtues, 
like  bravery,  and  a  fortitude  that  can 
endure  all  except  defeat.  Finally,  the 
people  to  whom  God  spoke  in  the  days 
of  Abraham,  Moses,  and  the  ages  after 
them  learned  a  deep-seated  piety,  obedi- 
ence to  the  declarations  of  the  Lord 
their  God,  and  perfect  trust  in  the 
revelations  of  him  who  made  the  world 
and  created  man.  Superbly  did  Israel 
rise  to  the  knowledge  of  the  true  and 
living  God. 

The  early  history  of  Israel  shows  a 
people  with  aspiration  for  a  righteous 
social  order  and  an  ultimate  unification 
of  mankind.  "Of  these  ideals,"  says  Is- 
rael Zangwill,  "the  race  of  Abraham 
originally  conceived  and  still  conceives 
itself  to  be  the  divine  medium  for  a 
knowledge  of  God."  The  characteristics 
of  the  people  are  made  known  to  us. 

The  Israelites  had  their  planting  and 
harvest  songs,  and  like  the  Navajo  In- 
dians, they  ascribed  all  the  gifts  of  na- 
ture to  a  merciful  and  loving  God.  The 
Prophet  Isaiah  describes  the  glory  of  re- 
deeming the  land: 

The  wilderness  and  the  solitary  place 
shall  be  glad  for  them;  and  the  desert  shall 
rejoice,  and  blossom  as  the  rose. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  5 

It  shall  blossom  abundantly,  and  rejoice 
even  with  joy  and  singing:  The  glory  of  Leb- 
anon shall  be  given  unto  it,  the  excellency 
of  Carmel  and  Sharon,  they  shall  see  the 
glory  of  the  Lord,  and  the  excellency  of  our 
God. 

Strengthen  ye  the  weak  hands  and  con- 
firm the  feeble  knees. 

Say  to  them  that  are  of  a  fearful  heart, 
Be  strong,  fear  not:  behold,  your  God  will 
come  with  vengeance,  even  God  with  a 
recompense;  he  will  come  and  save  you. 

Then  the  eyes  of  the  blind  shall  be 
opened,  and  the  ears  of  the  deaf  shall  be 
unstopped. 

Then  shall  the  lame  leap  as  an  hart,  and 
the  tongue  of  the  dumb  sing:  for  in  the 
wilderness  shall  waters  break  out,  and 
streams  in  the  desert. 

And  the  parched  ground  shall  become  a 
pool,  and  the  thirsty  land  springs  of  water: 
in  the  habitation  of  dragons,  where  each 
lay,  shall  be  grass  with  reeds  and  rushes. 

(Isaiah  35:1-7.) 

We  can  see  on  the  frescoes  in  the 
tombs  of  the  Pharaohs,  dams  enclosing 
basins — "Just  as  they  are  built  today," 
says  Emil  Ludwig,  "and  it  can  be  con- 
cluded from  inscriptions  by  what  state- 
craft the  water,  after  the  lapse  of  fixed 
periods,  was  conveyed  from  one  basin 
into  another."  We  know  how  the  shep- 
herds dug  wells  and  cisterns  four  thou- 
sand years  ago  and  how  the  farmer 
prepared  the  land  for  the  seed  and  made 
the  threshing  floors.  There  is  an  aque- 
duct near  Jerusalem  with  an  inscription 
on  it  written  by  King  Hezekiah  about 
700  B.  C.  Palestine  has  been  referred 
to  as  a  "dry  and  thirsty  land,"  and  yet 
the  melting  snows  of  Lebanon,  Mer- 
mon,  and  Carmel,  as  well  as  other 
heights  sink  into  the  ground  and  come 
forth  again  as  springs  of  water.  Wells 
became  the  center  of  community  life, 
supplying  water  for  household  purposes 
as  well  as  for  the  flocks  and  herds. 

There  have  been  holy  men,  prophets 
of  God,  throughout  the  ages.  They  have 
felt  the  divine,  creative  presence  of  God. 
They  believed  in  Providence,  and  felt 
there  was  a  power  around  and  beyond 
them  which  gave  them  a  concept  of 
their  ever-loving  Father.  Those  holy 
men  knew  their  Creator,  listened  to  him, 
spoke  to  him,  loved  him.  Moses  com- 
muned with  him  on  Mount  Sinai  and 
received  from  him  the  commandments 
which  have  molded  the  true  concept  of 


Second  Day 

government  throughout  the  civilized 
world.  History  knows  no  more  magnifi- 
cent men  than  the  prophets  of  Israel. 
They  were  the  idealists  of  the  ancient 
world.  They  grappled  with  the  same 
problems  which  we  have  today:  war, 
hate  of  one  nation  for  another,  hunger, 
wrong,  sin,  and  dishonor.  They  were 
the  servants  of  God  who  gave  the  world 
light  and  guidance  which  have  lasted 
to  this  day. 

It  is  the  idealism  of  the  different  ages 
that  has  saved  the  world.  There  is  a 
hidden  reality  in  the  hearts  of  men. 
Truth,  beauty,  and  goodness  belong  to 
the  ideal  world  of  men's  hopes,  and  to 
God  they  have  turned  for  revealed 
truth.  The  prophets  taught  man  the 
glory  of  the  invisible  world  and  gave 
him  the  glow  of  heavenly  light.  They 
lived  with  the  eye  of  faith  and  knew 
that  nature  and  man  had  glory  beyond 
that  which  the  senses  could  understand. 

A  new  nation  had  come  into  being  at 
the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth  cen- 
tury. It  had  been  ordained  of  God  to 
accomplish  his  divine  purposes.  The 
past  and  the  future  met  within  it,  for 
the  formation  of  the  government  of  the 
United  States  was  an  event  ordered  of 
God  for  the  bringing  in  of  his  Kingdom 
upon  the  earth.  A  republic  is  the  high- 
est form  of  political  institution,  De- 
Tocqueville  wrote,  and  this  we  know 
to  be  true.  Our  government  was  made 
up  of  different  nationalities  brought 
under  one  government  and  one  flag. 
Such  a  republic  had  been  unknown  be- 
fore in  history.  John  Winthrop,  one 
of  the  founders,  wrote  concerning  it: 

It  will  be  a  service  to  the  Church  of  great 
consequence  to  carry  the  Gospel  into  those 
parts  of  the  world  to  help  on  the  coming  of 
the  fulness  of  the  Gentiles. 

These  words  of  the  early  statesman 
and  missionary  truly  record  the  sugges- 
tion and  intention  which  brought  Eng- 
lishmen to  these  shores,  and  the  historic 
spirit  leads  us  to  an  understanding  of 
the  exalted  purposes  of  God  in  this 
world,  who  like  the  ancient  astronomers 
looked  into  the  sky  and  sang:  "The 
heavens  declare  the  glory  of  God." 
The  founders  set  forth  and  longed  for 
a  knowledge  of  how  to  live  life  as  it 
should  be  lived. 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 


69 


When  Joseph  Smith  went  into  the 
woods  to  pray  on  a  spring  morning  in 
1820,  "grace  was  poured  out  upon  his 
lips  and  God  blessed  him  forever."  God 
came  to  him  and  spoke,  and  with  him 
was  Jesus  Christ  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world.  Joseph  heard  from  the  divine 
lips  the  message  that  a  new  day  was  at 
hand.  Out  of  it  came  the  knowledge 
of  the  weaknesses  of  the  necessities  of 
man's  spirit.  The  eternal  truth  that 
man  is  himself  a  God  in  latent  power 
had  long  been  forgotten,  for  the  religion 
of  Jesus  Christ  had  taught  faith  in  the 
possibility  of  ascent  from  height  to 
height.  So  the  boy  prayed  for  light 
and  understanding. 

When  we  get  the  spirit  of  this  new 
age,  then  it  is  that  we  come  to  under- 
stand the  divine  truths  of  the  gospel 
more  and  more.  Many  things  make 
our  history  beautiful.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  inaugurated  a  new  age  of 
culture  and  heavenly  gifts.  We  all 
know  what  this  means  through  our 
testimonies  of  divine  truths.  In  con- 
clusion, may  I  give  just  one  example  of 
what  I  mean.  During  the  days  when 
the  pioneers  were  working  hard  to  es- 
tablish their  homes  and  redeem  the  soil, 


they  gave  examples  of  their  culture  in 
many  ways.  For  example,  they  built  a 
theatre  here  in  Salt  Lake  City  which 
became  known  throughout  America  and 
in  England,  France,  and  Italy.  Famous 
actors  came  to  play  on  its  stage.  Presi- 
dent Brigham  Young  gave  the  people 
a  love  for  the  drama.  It  was  he  who 
had  the  theatre  built.  One  time  a 
noted  actress,  Julia  Deane  Hayne,  in 
leaving  to  return  to  New  York,  gave 
her  good-bye  message  to  President 
Young  and  the  people  in  a  very  beauti- 
ful statement.  The  theatre  became 
known  to  the  world  as  a  place  of  divine 
art  years  before  the  railroad  reached 
Salt  Lake  City.  It  was  truly  a  creation 
of  pioneer  days,  the  theatre,  for  it  was 
built  by  the  inspiration  of  God.  May 
we  learn  more  and  more  every  day  about 
the  history  of  the  gospel  in  this  day  and 
age  of  the  world,  I  ask  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie 
of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  will  now 
address  us. 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


President  McKay  opened  the  confer- 
ence yesterday  with  a  fervent  and  force- 
ful plea  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  rise 
above  the  carnal  and  animal  things  of 
the  world  and  attain  to  a  state  of  spirit- 
uality, a  plea  for  them  to  crucify  the 
flesh  and  turn  their  hearts  and  interests 
to  the  things  of  the  Spirit. 

In  this  connection  I  call  attention  to 
the  words  which  the  beloved  disciple 
wrote: 

Love  not  the  world,  neither  the  things 
that  are  in  the  world.  If  any  man  love 
the  world,  the  love  of  the  Father  is  not 
in  him. 

For  all  that  is  in  the  world,  the  lust  of 
the  flesh,  and  the  lust  of  the  eyes,  and  the 
pride  of  life,  is  not  of  the  Father,  but  is 
of  the  world. 

And  the  world  passeth  away,  and  the  lust 
thereof:  but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  God 
abideth  for  ever.  (I  John  2:15-17.) 


There  is,  of  course,  a  difference  be- 
tween the  earth  and  the  world.  The 
earth  is  this  sphere,  this  planet  upon 
which  we  reside.  It  is  composed  of 
natural  elements — the  things  that  make 
up  the  dust  and  the  rocks  and  the  trees. 
The  world,  on  the  other  hand,  is  the 
society  of  men  living  on  the  face  of  the 
earth,  a  society  that  is  carnal  and 
sensuous  and  evil,  a  society  which  is 
living,  in  effect,  a  telestial  law;  and  there 
will  be  a  not  distant  day  when  the  end 
of  the  world  will  come,  which  means  by 
definition,  the  destruction  of  the  wicked. 
This  will  take  place  in  the  day  of  mil- 
lennial cleansing. 

We  have  been  sent  from  a  pre-existent 
sphere  to  this  earth;  as  a  consequence 
we  have  received  bodies  made  of  the 
dust  of  the  earth.  Through  the  grace 
of  God  and  the  atoning  sacrifice  of  his 


70 

Saturday,  April  5 

Son  we  will  get  these  bodies  back  again 
in  immortality  in  eternity. 

We  have  also  been  sent  from  the  pre- 
existent  sphere  and  placed  in  the  world, 
that  is,  in  circumstances  where  we  will 
be  enticed  to  do  evil,  where  we  will  be 
subject  to  the  lusts  of  the  flesh  and  the 
passions  that  go  naturally  with  a  mortal 
existence.  The  object  in  placing  us  in 
the  world  is  to  try  us,  to  test  us,  to  see 
if  we  can  overcome  the  world,  to  see  if 
we  can  walk  in  the  things  of  the  Spirit 
in  spite  of  the  worldly  enticements  that 
surround  us. 

I  suppose  that  in  our  day — in  this  age, 
with  all  the  pressures  of  advertising, 
made  possible  by  the  use  of  all  the  mod- 
ern inventions — that  the  enticements 
and  pressures  of  the  world  exceed  any- 
thing that  has  existed  or  prevailed  in 
any  age  past. 

Our  Lord,  in  speaking  to  his  ancient 
disciples  about  the  lusts  of  the  world, 
said  that  both  he  and  they  had  over- 
come the  world.  He  told  them  that 
they  would  be  hated  by  the  world  be- 
cause they  were  not  of  the  world.  In 
his  great  intercessory  prayer  he  prayed 
that  the  Father  would  keep  the  disciples 
free  from  sin.  He  said, 

I  pray  not  for  the  world,  but  for  them 
which  thou  hast  given  me;  .  .  . 

I  pray  not  that  thou  shouldest  take  them 
out  of  the  world,  but  that  thou  shouldest 
keep  them  from  the  evil.  (See  John  15:18- 
19;  17:6-18.) 

Well,  then,  an  omnipotent  God  has 
deliberately  and  advisedly  placed  us  in 
the  circumstances  in  which  we  now  find 
ourselves,  with  enticements  and  lusts  of 
every  sort  around  us,  for  the  very  pur- 
pose of  determining  whether  we  will 
overcome  the  world,  whether  we  will 
turn  to  spiritual  things  rather  than  be 
engulfed  in  carnal  things. 

We  had  a  probationary  experience,  a 
testing  of  a  different  sort,  in  the  pre- 
existent  sphere.  We  were  there  as  spirit 
beings  only,  without  these  temporal 
bodies.  Now  we  have  mortal  bodies 
that  are  subject  to  different  enticements; 
and  this  particular  portion  of  all  eter- 
nity is  that  which  is  segregated  as 
the  time  when  we  will  be  tested  and 
tried  and  examined  in  the  very  manner 
in  which  we  are  now  being  examined. 
May  I  suggest  to  you  some  of  the  things 
that  there  are  in  the  world  which  stand 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

as  tests  in  determining  whether  we  will 
turn  to  the  things  of  righteousness  or 
whether  we  will  go  off  after  the  manner 
of  the  world,  walking  as  carnal  men  do. 

If,  for  instance,  we  gratify  the  appe- 
tites that  there  are  in  this  body,  taking 
into  the  body  food  and  drink  that  are 
unclean  and  unwholesome,  we  are  walk- 
ing after  the  manner  of  the  world  and 
manifesting  love  therefor.  But  if,  on  the 
other  hand,  we  abstain  completely  from 
tea,  coffee,  tobacco,  and  liquor,  and  from 
every  other  unwholesome  and  impure 
food  or  drink,  thereby  developing  self- 
control,  then  to  this  extent  we  are  both 
overcoming  the  world  and  acquiring  a 
godly  attribute. 

If  we  walk  in  this  life  in  such  a  man- 
ner as  to  use  all  of  the  time  that  there 
is,  seven  days  a  week,  either  for  the 
purpose  of  gaining  a  livelihood  or  for 
engaging  in  recreational  pursuits,  we  are 
walking  after  the  manner  of  the  world. 
But  if,  on  the  other  hand,  we  honor 
the  Lord's  holy  day,  keep  his  Sabbath, 
go  to  the  house  of  prayer  and  offer  up 
our  vows  and  sacraments  so  that  we 
may  gain  strength  to  become  and  to 
remain  unspotted  from  the  world,  if 
that  is  our  course,  then  we  are  rising 
to  a  plane  of  spirituality. 

Paul  said,  "The  love  of  money  is  the 
root  of  all  evil."  (I  Tim.  6:10.)  Now, 
if  we  get  the  love  of  money  or  the  love 
of  the  things  of  this  world  in  our  hearts, 
so  that  we  desire  those  things  in  prefer- 
ence to  the  things  of  the  Spirit,  we  are 
walking  in  carnal  paths.  But  if,  on  the 
other  hand,  we  pay  an  honest  tithing; 
pay  our  fast  offerings;  contribute  to  the 
great  missionary  cause,  to  the  Church 
educational  system,  to  the  building  pro- 
grams of  the  Church,  and  so  on;  if  we 
make  our  means  available  to  the  Lord 
and  to  his  kingdom  and  to  his  work — ■ 
then  we  are  rising  above  the  plane  of 
covetousness  and  lust  that  is  inherent 
in  the  nature  of  our  mortal  existence. 

The  Lord  has  placed  in  our  bodies 
certain  passions  and  certain  appetites; 
perhaps  the  strongest  of  these  deal  with 
what  we  call  the  sex  urges.  Now  if  we 
walk  in  an  unbridled  manner,  after  the 
way  of  the  world,  and  are  immoral  and 
lascivious  and  unclean,  then  we  are 
reveling  in  the  basest  sort  of  carnal 
existence.  But  if,  on  the  other  hand, 
we  have  the  strength  of  character  and 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


71 


the  fortitude  and  ability  to  stand  up  like 
men  and  bridle  our  passions  and  con- 
trol our  lusts  and  use  the  sex  urges  in 
the  manner  in  which  the  Lord  has  or- 
dained that  they  should  be  used — which 
is  wholesome  and  pure  and  right — if 
we  walk  without  any  form  of  sex  im- 
morality, then  we  are  rising  above  the 
animal  plane,  and  we  are  walking  in 
the  realm  of  spiritual  things. 

And  so  it  is  with  every  situation  in 
which  we  find  ourselves.  If  we  play 
cards;  if  we  visit  beer  halls;  if  we  lie  or 
steal  or  cheat;  if  we  take  advantage  of 
our  neighbor  for  a  word;  if  we  oppress 
the  hireling  in  his  wages;  if  we  are  im- 
modest in  our  dress;  if  we  do  any  of 
the  things  that  are  commonly  done  by 
the  great  masses  of  ungodly  people  in 
the  world — we  will  be  living  after  their 
manner  and  certifying  that  we  love  the 
things  of  the  world  more  than  we  love 
the  Lord.  But  on  the  contrary,  if  we 
abide  in  the  truth  and  keep  our  cove- 
nants and  walk  in  the  manner  that  we 
were  counseled  to  walk  by  our  President 
as  he  opened  this  conference — and  do  it 
consistently,  acting  uprightly,  with  in- 
tegrity and  devotion — then  we  will  be 
putting  off  the  natural  man;  we  will 
be  born  again;  we  will  become  new 
creatures  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Then  it 
will  be  our  right  to  have  the  constant 
companionship  of  that  member  of  the 


Godhead.  And  finally,  if  we  endure  in 
faith  and  in  devotion  to  the  end,  we 
will  be  inheritors  of  eternal  life  in  the 
kingdom  of  God  hereafter. 

He  who  doeth  the  works  of  righteousness 
shall  receive  his  reward,  even  peace  in  this 
world,  and  eternal  life  in  the  world  to 
come.  (D  &  C  59:23.) 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spok- 
en to  us.  The  Congregation  will  now 
sing,  "Praise  to  the  Man,"  joining  the 
Choruses,  under  the  direction  of  Alma 
Dittmer.  After  the  singing,  Bishop 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin  will  speak  to  us. 


The  congregation  and  the  Combined 
Choruses  joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"Praise  to  the  Man,"  with  Alma  Ditt- 
mer conducting. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Bishop 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presiding  Bishop 
of  the  Church.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Richard  L.  Evans. 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  sin- 
cerely trust  that  I  might  have  an  interest 
in  your  prayers  in  my  behalf.  Without 
prayer,  it  would  be  impossible  to  express 
one's  thoughts  and  give  testimony  of  the 
existence  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and 
his  Church. 

Our  general  conference  being  held  on 
April  4,  5,  and  6  recalls  vividly  those 
memorable  days  of  the  crucifixion  and 
the  resurrection  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  The  words  of  Paul  voice  the 
testimony  of  each  of  us  when  he  said, 

Jesus  Christ  the  same  yesterday,  and  to 
day,  and  for  ever.  (Heb.  13:8.) 

As  Latter-day  Saints,  we  are  particu- 
larly interested  in  two  great  individuals: 


one,  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  and 
the  other,  Joseph  Smith — the  one  at  the 
age  of  twelve,  the  other  at  the  age  of 
fourteen.  Christ  visited  Jerusalem  for 
the  first  time  with  Mary  and  Joseph, 
who  had  gone  there  to  attend  the  Feast 
of  the  Passover  and  to  pay  their  taxes. 
When  they  started  homeward,  and  after 
one  day's  travel,  they  discovered  the 
Christ  was  not  in  their  company.  Re- 
turning to  Jerusalem,  they  found  him  in 
the  temple  where  he  was  engaged  in 
discussion  with  the  great  men  of  the 
day  and  was,  no  doubt,  telling  them  of 
his  future  assignments  and  teaching 
them  the  gospel  that  was  to  be  given 
to  the  world.  Mary  and  Joseph  entered 
the  temple.   Mary  said,  ".  .  .  Son,  why 


72 

Saturday,  April  5 

hast  thou  thus  dealt  with  us?  behold, 
thy  father  and  I  have  sought  thee  sor- 
rowing." (Luke  2:48.)  Christ  then 
made  that  marvelous  answer,  ".  .  .  How 
is  it  that  ye  sought  me?  wist  ye  not 
that  I  must  be  about  my  Father's  busi- 
ness?" (Ibid.,  2:49.) 

Some  years  later,  the  Christ  sought 
John  the  Baptist  who  was  preaching  re- 
pentance and  baptism  for  the  remission 
of  sins,  and  John  impressed  those  with 
whom  he  came  in  contact,  saying  that 
the  Christ,  ".  .  .  shall  baptize  you  with 
the  Holy  Ghost,  and  with  fire."  (Matt. 
3:11.) 

Christ  requested  baptism  of  John, 

But  John  forbad  him,  saying,  I  have  need 
to  be  baptized  of  thee,  and  comest  thou  to 
me?  And  Jesus  answering  said  unto  him, 
Suffer  it  to  be  so  now:  for  thus  it  becometh 
us  to  fulfil  all  righteousness.  (Ibid.,  3:14-15.) 

As  Christ  came  up  straightway  out 
of  the  water,  a  voice  was  heard  from  the 
heavens  saying,  ".  .  .  This  is  my  beloved 
Son,  in  whom  I  am  well  pleased."  (Ibid., 
3:17.) 

In  requesting  baptism  of  John,  Christ 
recognized  that  John  held  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood,  the  office  of  a  priest. 

After  the  Church  was  organized,  we 
read  in  Ephesians  4:11,  "And  he  gave 
some  apostles;  and  some,  prophets;  and 
some  evangelists;  and  some,  pastors  and 
teachers."  The  teachers  held  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood. 

We  read  in  Philippians  1:1  from  a 
statement  of  the  Apostle  Paul  as  follows, 

Paul  and  Timotheus,  the  servants  of  Jesus 
Christ,  to  all  the  saints  in  Christ  Jesus 
which  are  at  Philippi,  with  the  bishops 
and  deacons. 

It  is  a  great  source  of  inspiration  to 
every  member  of  this  Church  to  know 
that  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  actually  ex- 
isted in  the  days  of  the  Christ  and  the 
apostles.  Others  were  called  to  receive 
the  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  Elders  were 
called  and  ordained,  as  we  read  in  Acts 
14:23, 

And  when  they  had  ordained  them  elders 
in  every  church,  and  had  prayed  with  fast- 
ing, they  commended  them  to  the  Lord,  on 
whom  they  believed. 

In  addition  to  elders,  there  were  se- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

lected  seventies  receiving  the  Melchize- 
dek Priesthood,  for  in  Luke  10:1  it  states, 

After  these  things  the  Lord  appointed 
other  seventy  also,  and  sent  them  two  and 
two  before  his  face  into  every  city  and  place, 
whither  he  himself  would  come. 

The  Christ  was  the  great  high  priest. 
Others  were  also  so  blessed,  including 
the  apostles.   We  read  in  Hebrews  5:1, 

For  every  high  priest  taken  from  among 
men  is  ordained  for  men  in  things  pertain- 
ing to  God,  that  he  may  offer  both  gifts 
and  sacrifices  for  sins. 

The  history  of  the  New  Testament 
points  out  definitely  the  existence  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  wherein  there  were 
deacons,  teachers,  and  priests,  and  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood  with  elders, 
seventies,  and  high  priests.  There  stood 
at  the  head,  the  apostles  and  the  bish- 
ops, guiding  and  directing  the  two 
priesthoods.  The  members  of  the 
Aaronic  and  Melchizedek  priesthoods 
taught  the  membership  of  the  Church 
faith,  repentance,  baptism  for  the  re- 
mission of  sins,  and  laying  on  of  hands 
for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  those 
who  held  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood. 
The  seventies  with  the  apostles  were 
assigned  to  preach  the  gospel  to  the 
known  world  at  that  time.  Those  who 
held  the  priesthood  were  directed  to  be 
helpful  to  the  poor,  teach  the  member- 
ship of  the  Church  to  pay  their  tithing, 
to  observe  the  Lord's  day,  not  to  pro- 
fane, to  be  honest,  and  to  attend  Sacra- 
ment meeting.  Again,  the  New 
Testament  makes  it  clear  that  work  was 
being  done  for  the  dead,  for  did  not  the 
Apostle  Paul  say  in  I  Corinthians  15:29, 

Else  what  shall  they  do  which  are  bap- 
tized for  the  dead,  if  the  dead  rise  not  at 
all?  why  are  they  then  baptized  for  the 
dead? 

So  with  both  the  Aaronic  and  Mel- 
chizedek priesthoods,  the  saints  of  the 
Church  2,000  years  ago  enjoyed  the 
same  privileges,  divine  direction,  and  in- 
spiration as  do  the  membership  of  the 
Church  in  this  day.  The  Church  2,000 
years  ago  was  one  of  activity  and  oppor- 
tunity for  services  to  be  rendered  by 
every  individual  member  to  assist  in 
building  up  the  kingdom.  For  again, 
reading  the  words  of  the  Apostle  James, 


BISHOP  JOSEPH 

Yea,  a  man  may  say,  Thou  hast  faith,  and 
I  have  works:  shew  me  thy  faith  without 
thy  works,  and  I  will  shew  thee  my  faith 
by  my  works.  (James  2:18.) 

After  the  resurrection  of  the  Christ, 
there  stood  as  the  president  of  the 
Church  the  Apostle  Peter,  who  through 
divine  direction  and  inspiration  con- 
tinued to  teach  the  gospel  and  the 
existence  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  to 
the  people  and  those  not  of  the  faith. 
To  those  who  were  loyal,  devoted,  true, 
and  active  in  the  gospel,  it  is  said, 

But  ye  are  a  chosen  generation,  a  royal 
priesthood,  an  holy  nation,  a  peculiar  peo- 
ple; that  ye  should  shew  forth  the  praises 
of  him  who  hath  called  you  out  of  dark- 
ness into  his  marvellous  light.  (I  Peter  2:9.) 

It  was  Paul  who  realized  there  was 
soon  to  come  about  a  change  in  the 
Church,  for  did  he  not  declare  in  II 
Timothy  4:3-4, 

For  the  time  will  come  when  they  will 
not  endure  sound  doctrine,  but  after  their 
own  lusts  shall  they  heap  to  themselves 
teachers,  having  itching  ears; 

And  they  shall  turn  away  their  ears  from 
the  truth,  and  shall  be  turned  unto  fables. 

He  realized  that  the  Church  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  would  soon  be 
changed  from  the  teachings  of  the 
Christ  and  the  apostles  to  that  of  in- 
dividuals who  were  teaching  false  doc- 
trine. 

Two  hundred  years  later,  the  gospel 
had  been  changed,  the  priesthood  had 
been  taken  away,  and  the  earth  was 
left  in  spiritual  darkness;  but  this  was 
not  to  exist  forever,  for  John  the  be- 
loved had  said  in  Revelation  14:6, 

And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst 
of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting  gospel  to 
preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth, 
and  to  every  nation,  and  kindred,  and 
tongue,  and  people. 

Two  thousand  years  later,  there  was 
a  boy  at  the  age  of  fourteen,  Joseph 
Smith,  who  lived  in  Palmyra,  New  York. 
Among  the  churches  in  Palmyra,  New 
York,  was  great  misunderstanding  of 
the  gospel.  It  was  impossible  to  find  the 
church  organization  and  the  priesthood 
as  it  existed  nearly  2,000  years  before. 
Joseph  was  very  much  concerned  about 
the  differences  of  opinion  among  the 


L.  WIRTHLIN  73 

various  churches  and  the  doctrines  they 
were  teaching.  He  was  one  in  whose 
heart  was  a  testimony  that  in  the  Bible 
could  be  found  the  answers  to  his  many 
questions.  The  statement  of  James  the 
Apostle  gave  him  the  necessary  informa- 
tion, 

If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask 
of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men  liberally,  and 
upbraideth  not;  and  it  shall  be  given  him. 

But  let  him  ask  in  faith,  nothing  waver- 
ing. For  he  that  wavereth  is  like  a  wave 
of  the  sea  driven  with  the  wind  and  tossed. 
(James  1:5-6.) 

Joseph  followed  the  admonition  given 
to  him  by  the  Apostle  James  and  made 
it  a  matter  of  prayer,  asking  God  where 
he  might  find  the  Church  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  In  answer  thereto,  there 
appeared  the  Father  and  the  Son,  the 
first  appearance  of  the  Father  and  the 
Son  since  Jesus  Christ  was  upon  the 
earth  nearly  2,000  years  before.  The  Lord 
said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  "This  is  My 
Beloved  Son.  Hear  Him!."  (Joseph 
Smith  2:17.)  Instructions  to  Joseph  by 
the  Christ  indicated  that  his  Church  was 
not  upon  the  earth,  but  in  time  it  would 
be  re-established. 

There  appeared  other  heavenly  beings 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  among  whom  was 
Moroni,  who  had  lived  upon  the  Amer- 
ican continent  and  had  prepared  the 
history  of  the  great  events  that  had 
taken  place  in  the  coming  of  Lehi  and 
his  sons  and  in  the  establishment  of 
both  the  Nephite  and  Lamanite  nations 
and  that  Jesus  Christ  the  Son  of  God 
actually  appeared  upon  the  American 
continent,  established  his  Church,  and 
organized  the  Aaronic  and  Melchizedek 
priesthoods.  Jesus  taught  the  Nephite 
people  the  gospel  as  he  had  the  people 
in  Israel,  bestowing  upon  them  the  same 
rights,  blessings,  and  privileges.  Moroni 
also  indicated  to  Joseph  that  he  would 
receive  the  gold  plates  containing  the 
history  of  America.  The  gold  plates 
were  written  in  a  strange  language, 
which  the  Prophet  Joseph  translated, 
and  Oliver  Cowdery  acted  as  scribe.  In 
so  doing,  they  came  across  the  manner 
of  baptism,  which  was  not  clear  to  them. 
They  made  it  a  matter  of  prayer  to  the 
Lord,  and  there  appeared  a  heavenly 
being  who  introduced  himself  as  John 
the  Baptist.   This  event  took  place  on 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  5 

May  15,  1829,  in  Harmony,  Pennsyl- 
vania. He  placed  his  hands  upon  the 
heads  of  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery  and  uttered  these  words, 

Upon  you  my  fellow  servants,  in  the  name 
of  Messiah  I  confer  the  Priesthood  of  Aaron, 
which  holds  the  keys  of  the  ministering  of 
angels,  and  of  the  gospel  of  repentance,  and 
of  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission 
of  sins;  and  this  shall  never  be  taken  again 
from  the  earth,  until  the  sons  of  Levi  do 
offer  again  an  offering  unto  the  Lord  in 
righteousness.  (D  &  C  13.) 

Through  the  appearances  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son,  Moroni,  and  John 
the  Baptist,  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  was 
restored  and  placed  upon  the  earth. 
Some  few  weeks  later,  three  apostles, 
Peter,  James,  and  John,  appeared  and 
bestowed  upon  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood. 
We  can  readily  see  that  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  was  again  restored,  organ- 
ized, and  placed  upon  the  earth  with 
both  the  Aaronic  and  Melchizedek 
priesthoods,  for  the  salvation,  inspira- 
tion, and  guidance  of  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

As  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  and  Mel- 
chizedek Priesthood  2,000  years  ago  had 
very  definite  assignments,  it  is  now  true 
that  those  who  hold  the  Aaronic  and 
Melchizedek  priesthoods  have  the  same 
assignments  to  teach  faith,  repentance, 
baptism  for  the  remission  of  sins,  lay- 
ing on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  by  those  who  hold  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood,  fasting,  mission- 
ary work  to  preach  the  gospel  to  every 
nation,  kindred,  tongue,  and  people, 
helping  the  poor,  paying  tithing,  observ- 
ing the  Lord's  day,  being  honest,  at- 
tending Sacrament  meeting,  and  doing 
work  for  the  dead.  The  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  received  a  marvelous  revelation 
from  the  Lord  which  is  recorded  in  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  section  2, 
wherein  the  membership  of  the  Church 
were  instructed  to  do  work  for  the 
dead.    The  Lord  said, 

Behold,  I  will  reveal  unto  you  the  Priest- 
hood, by  the  hand  of  Elijah  the  prophet, 
before  the  coming  of  the  great  and  dreadful 
day  of  the  Lord. 

And  he  shall  plant  in  the  hearts  of  the 
children  the  promises  made  to  the  fathers, 


Second  Day 

and  the  hearts  of  the  children  shall  turn  to 
their  fathers. 

If  it  were  not  so,  the  whole  earth  would 
be  utterly  wasted  at  his  coming. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  bear  you 
my  testimony  that  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  the  organization 
of  the  Church  with  the  Aaronic  and 
Melchizedek  priesthoods  have  been  re- 
stored to  the  earth  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph.  He  actually  saw  the  Father  and 
the  Son.  Those  of  us  who  have  the 
privilege  and  blessing  of  membership 
in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  have  very  definite  responsi- 
bilities and  assignments,  particularly  in 
connection  with  the  marvelous  revela- 
tion wherein  the  Lord  said, 

For  I  will  raise  up  unto  myself  a  pure 
people,  that  will  serve  me  in  righteousness; 

And  all  that  call  upon  the  name  of  the 
Lord,  and  keep  his  commandments,  shall  be 
saved.  (Ibid.,  100:16-17.) 

This  is  a  definite  promise  for  each  and 
every  one  of  us  who  is  sweet  and  clean 
in  body  and  mind,  wherein  there  will 
come  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  in 
building  up  our  testimonies  and  giving 
us  the  full  understanding  of  the  restored 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  In  ad- 
dition thereto,  in  our  hearts  will  be  that 
testimony  that  there  stands  at  the  head 
of  the  Church  an  apostle  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  as  there  was  2,000  years  ago 
in  the  days  of  Peter,  with  the  same 
desire  to  inspire  the  Saints  of  today. 
Peter  visited  many  of  the  saints,  as  does 
our  president  and  apostle  today,  with  the 
same  attitude  and  feeling  with  reference 
to  the  membership  of  the  Church  as 
Peter  had  when  he  said, 

But  ye  are  a  chosen  generation,  a  royal 
priesthood,  an  holy  nation,  a  peculiar  people; 
that  ye  should  shew  forth  the  praises  of 
him  who  hath  called  you  out  of  darkness 
into  his  marvellous  light.  (I  Peter  2:9.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  wonder- 
ful to  know  that  all  of  us  are  here  en- 
joying the  blessings  of  the  Church  and 
the  gospel  because  we  are  among  those 
who  have  literally  been  called  out  of 
darkness  into  his  marvelous  light.  One 
hundred  years  ago,  our  grandfathers  and 
grandmothers  and  many  of  our  own 
fathers  and  mothers  were  literally  drawn 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


75 


out  of  the  darkness  of  the  world  into  the 
marvelous  light  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  through  missionaries.  Men  and 
women  today  are  accepting  the  truth 
and  becoming  members  of  his  Church. 
There  is  no  other  Church  in  the  world 
where  individuals  have  as  great  respon- 
sibilities, particularly  those  who  hold  the 
Aaronic  and  Melchizedek  priesthoods. 

I  humbly  pray  that  we  shall  be  worthy 
to  follow  in  his  footsteps  and  be  inspired 
by  the  statement  of  the  Christ  2,000 
years  ago  when  he  said, 


.  .  .  wist  ye  not  that  I  must  be  about 
my  Father's  business? 

and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presid- 
ing Bishop  of  the  Church,  has  just  con- 
cluded speaking.  Elder  Richard  L. 
Evans,  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  will  now  address  us.  Elder 
Milton  R.  Hunter  will  follow  Elder 
Evans. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay  and  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  I  acknowledge  my  need  for 
help  in  this  humbling  position  and 
would  wish  to  go  back,  in  these  few 
moments  which  I  have,  to  the  theme  set 
by  President  McKay  yesterday  morning 
and  recall  as  a  text  and  a  title: 

For  to  be  carnally  minded  is  death;  but 
to  be  spiritually  minded  is  life  and  peace. 
(Rom.  8:6.) 

I  cannot  think  of  a  greater  blessing 
nor  anything  more  earnestly  to  be  sought 
after  than  life  and  peace. 

As  I  have  heard  the  words  of  life  and 
peace  spoken  in  this  conference  these 
past  two  days,  as  I  have  contemplated 
the  ways  of  life  and  peace,  I  have 
thought  inevitably  of  some  voices  and 
faces  of  the  past  mingled  with  those  of 
the  present.  Those  three  who  most  re- 
cently have  left  us  have  been  men- 
tioned a  number  of  times  in  this 
conference.  I  have  counted  others,  espe- 
cially during  the  late  hours  of  last  night 
and  the  early  hours  of  this  morning, 
and  have  written  down  some  nineteen 
or  twenty  names  of  beloved  Brethreri 
with  whom  I  have  here  sat  during  some 
nineteen  and  a  half  years,  and  who  have 
since  left  this  life. 

I  would  read  the  list,  but  am  afraid  I 
might  miss  some;  but  I  should  like  to 
recall  from  some  of  those  voices  of  the 
past  some  things  that  they  have  said, 
that  they  may  mingle  again  with  us  in 
the  present.  (One  thing  that  their  hav- 
ing gone  impresses  upon  us  is  how 
swiftly  the  days  of  life  move  and  how 


choice  must  be  the  company  on  the 
other  side  where  all  of  us  hope  even- 
tually to  find  ourselves  in  the  kingdom 
of  our  Father.) 

Melvin  J.  Ballard  is  one.  A  printed 
card  which  has  crossed  the  desk  of  some 
of  us  these  past  few  days  gives  these  sen- 
tences of  a  paragraph  by  Brother 
Ballard: 

Man  is  a  child  of  God,  therefore  he  par- 
takes of  the  divine  nature  of  his  Father. 
Within  him  lie  germs  of  infinite  develop- 
ment. Potentially  he  is  a  godlike  being. 
Therefore  he  may  rise  eternally  towards 
the  likeness  of  his  Father  in  heaven.  Up- 
ward, divine,  unending  is  man's  destiny. 

I  thought  of  Brother  Albert  E.  Bowen, 
a  choice  spirit  with  a  profound  mind, 
and  from  the  last  talk  he  gave  at  a  gen- 
eral conference,  I  have  taken  these 
sentences: 

Our  religion  comprehends  more  than  just 
the  ethical  code.  It  contains  a  body  of 
principles,  through  the  observance  of  which 
we  are  promised  the  great  reward  of  eter- 
nal life  and  salvation  in  the  kingdom  of 
God.  ...  It  all  centers  in  Jesus  the  Christ. 
.  .  .  Our  religion  comprises  the  teachings 
and  life  and  actions  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth. 
That  constitutes  our  religion. 

I  have  thought  of  Brother  Matthew 
Cowley  and  the  last  talk  he  gave  here, 
as  I  recall,  a  beautiful  talk  on  prayer: 

Some  people  think  it  is  a  sign  of  weak- 
ness to  get  upon  one's  knees  and  pray  to 
our  Heavenly  Father.  It's  the  greatest  sign 
of  strength  that  exists.  No  men  are  greater 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  5 

than  when  they  are  upon  their  knees  in 
communion  with  God  and  having  a  sacred 
interview  with  him. 

The  voice  of  Thomas  E.  McKay,  you 
will  remember  it,  pleading  for  love  at 
home.  I  think  it  was  the  last  talk  he 
gave  here: 

I  never  heard  my  father,  and  nobody  else 
did,  speak  an  unkind  word  to  my  mother, 
so  it  has  not  been  difficult  for  me  to  say 
kind  words. 

You  will  remember  those  two  phrases 
recalled  by  Brother  Hanks  at  the  funeral 
service  of  Brother  Oscar  Kirkham: 

"Your  name  is  safe  in  our  home" — 
and  "What  will  it  do  to  the  man?" 

And  many  other  voices  come  to  mind. 

Dr.  Adam  S.  Bennion — this  bench  this 
day  is  a  lonelier  place  without  his  sitting 
beside  us.  To  say  that  he  is  much 
missed  would  be  an  acute  understate- 
ment. You  may  recall  his  most  outstand- 
ing University  baccalaureate  address 
in  the  stadium  under  the  starlight,  some 
six  or  seven  years  ago,  with  the  hills  to 
the  east  in  their  beauty  catching  the 
last  tints  of  the  sunset: 

Here  in  the  shadow  of  these  everlasting 
hills  I  bring  you  no  argument — I  bring 
you  a  conviction.  A  conviction  that  we  and 
the  world  in  which  we  live  are  the  product 
not  of  chance — not  of  the  mere  interplay 
of  lines  of  force — but  the  master  work  of  a 
great  Creator.  A  conviction  that  we  are  the 
children  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  who 
created  the  universe  and  all  of  us,  and  that 
He  still  guides  our  destinies.  Hence  the 
title,  "Candle  of  the  Lord."  Or,  if  you 
prefer  the  whole  text:  "The  spirit  of  man 
is  the  candle  of  the  Lord."  (Proverbs  20:27.) 

There  is  a  light  that  lights  all  of  us 
who  come  into  the  world.  We  have  the 
assurance  of  John  for  this: 

In  him  was  life;  and  the  life  was  the 
light  of  men.  ...  the  true  Light,  which 
lighteth  every  man  that  cometh  into  the 
world.  (John  1:4,  9.) 

I  think  that  one  of  the  worst  things 
we  could  say  of  any  man  is  that  there 
is  not  light  in  him.  And  in  thinking 
of  the  candle  of  the  Lord,  I  am  thinking 
of  the  candle  of  conscience,  and  of 
much  else,  also. 

I  could  not  think  of  the  voices  and 
faces  of  the  past  without  thinking  of  my 


Second  Day 

beloved  friend  who  (with  Dr.  James  E. 
Talmage)  was  my  mission  president, 
Dr.  John  A.  Widtsoe.  I  can  hear  him  say, 
many  times:  "I  would  rather  go  through 
life  trusting  my  fellow  men,  and  have 
a  few  of  them  disappoint  me,  than  to 
go  through  life  mistrusting  everyone." 

I  can  hear  him  say  to  the  discouraged, 
to  the  penitent,  to  those  who  are 
weighted  with  problems  and  weighted 
with  sin:  "Look  up,  not  down.  Look 
forward,  not  back." 

I  can  hear  him  recall  an  old  and  an- 
cient thought,  many  versions  of  which 
have  been  recalled  and  restated  over 
the  ages:  "Count  no  man  happy  until 
he  is  dead" — which  is  another  way  of 
saying,  "He  that  shall  endure  to  the 
end  shall  be  saved."  We  have  to  finish 
the  race.  There  is  a  reward  for  con- 
sistency in  life. 

I  can  hear  him  say:  "He  giveth  twice 
who  giveth  quickly." 

The  time  when  men  need  things  is 
when  they  need  them.  The  time  when 
a  man  needs  nourishment  is  when  he 
is  hungry.  The  time  when  youth  need 
counsel  may  be  a  very  perishable  time. 
It  may  be  this  very  night  and  not  when 
it  is  convenient,  not  tomorrow,  not  next 
week.  "He  giveth  twice  who  giveth 
quickly." 

I  can  hear  Dr.  Joseph  F.  Merrill  say- 
ing: "No  one  ever  falls  over  a  precipice 
who  never  goes  near  one." 

Do  not  tempt  temptation.  None  of 
us  knows  his  own  strength.  We  should 
not  flit  around  the  edge  of  anything  that 
we  should  not  flit  around  the  edge  of, 
unless  we  want  to  hazard  what  hanging 
too  near  the  edge  hazards.  Do  not 
tempt  temptation. 

I  can  hear  President  George  Albert 
Smith:  "Give  the  Lord  a  chance,"  and 
"Keep  on  the  Lord's  side  of  the  line." 

I  can  hear  the  voice  of  President 
Grant  ringing  out  here,  and  I  can  al- 
most hear  him  thumping  the  pulpit: 
"That  which  we  persist  in  doing  be- 
comes easy  to  do;  not  that  the  nature 
of  the  thing  has  changed,  but  that  our 
power  to  do  has  increased." 

I  have  quoted  many  times  a  letter 
of  President  Grant's  which  his  family 
republished  parts  of,  with  other  quota- 
tions, on  the  one-hundredth  anniversary 
of  his  birth  a  year  ago  last  November, 
a  letter  he  wrote  from  Japan  as  a  young 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


77 


man,  in  1903,  from  which  these  para- 
graphs are  taken: 

We  have  no  right  to  go  near  temptation, 
or  in  fact  to  do  or  say  a  thing  that  we  can- 
not honestly  ask  the  blessing  of  the  Lord 
upon,  neither  to  visit  any  place  where  we 
would  be  ashamed  to  take  our  sister  or 
sweetheart. 

The  Good  Spirit  will  not  go  with  us  on 
to  the  Devil's  ground,  and  if  we  are  stand- 
ing alone  upon  the  ground  belonging  to  the 
adversary  of  men's  souls,  he  may  have  the 
power  to  trip  us  up  and  destroy  us.  The 
only  safe  ground  is  so  far  from  danger  as 
it  is  possible  to  get.  Virtue  is  more  valu- 
able than  life — 

There  are  some  who  come  and  say 
they  have  not  been  taught,  that  they 
wish  they  had  known  differently.  But 
the  commandments  are  pretty  plain.  I 
would  not  worry  too  much  about  the 
obscure  passages  of  scripture.  We  will 
not  be  held  accountable  for  things  we 
do  not  know,  but  we  will  be  for  those 
we  do  know. 

(I  think  of  a  sentence  from  Mark 
Twain.  One  would  always  expect  a  bit 
of  humor  from  him,  and  there  is  some- 
thing of  whimsey  in  this  sentence  of  his: 
"The  scripture  passages  that  bother  me 
the  most  are  the  ones  I  understand."  I 
think  we  do  not  need  to  worry  too  much 
about  the  ones  we  do  not  understand.) 

Back  to  President  Grant: 

— Virtue  is  more  valuable  than  life.  Never 
allow  yourself  to  go  out  of  curiosity  to  see 
any  of  the  "undercrust"  in  this  world.  We 
can't  handle  dirty  things  and  keep  our 
hands  clean. 

These  are  some  of  the  voices  of  the 
past.  They  are  true  voices,  mingled 
with  those  of  the  present,  in  counsel  to 
this  generation  and  to  those  yet  in  the 
future. 

I  would  plead  with  my  beloved  young 
friends,  many  of  whom  come,  some  of 
whom  are  burdened  with  sin  and  sor- 
row, and  older  ones  also,  not  to  quibble 
about  definitions,  and  shades  of  mean- 
ing and  obscure  passages  and  try  to 
rationalize  and  outreason  the  scriptures. 
The  commandments  are  basic  to  our 
very  nature.  They  are  not  arbitrary. 
The  Lord  God  has  not  just  sat  down 
and  thought  up  a  series  of  thou  shalt 
nots.  He  knows  us.  He  knows  our  na- 


tures. He  knows  what  will  lead  to  hap- 
piness, to  "life  and  peace,"  to  refer  back 
to  the  text  of  President  McKay.  He 
knows  what  will  help  us  to  realize  our 
highest  possibilities. 

There  are  consequences  in  all  things. 
As  surely  as  we  live  the  law  we  shall 
reap  the  rewards  of  living  the  law.  As 
surely  as  we  break  the  law  we  shall  pay 
some  penalties,  but  blessedly  with  that 
mercy  of  which  President  Clark  spoke 
so  beautifully. 

I  give  you  these  voices  of  the  past,  and 
bring  your  attention,  my  beloved  young 
friends,  to  the  commandments  and  ask 
you  to  look  beyond  the  sophistries  of 
men  and  the  rationalizing  that  would 
wave  them  away,  and  remember  the 
strong,  terse  language  of  our  Savior,  who 
was  no  more  sharp  in  his  language  at 
any  time  than  when  he  was  talking 
to  hypocrites  and  such,  when  he  said: 
"Ye  blind  guides,  which  strain  at  a  gnat, 
and  swallow  a  camel."  (Matt.  23:24.) 

Attaining  "life  and  peace"  is  not  a 
matter  of  quibbling.  It  is  not  a  matter 
of  obscure  meanings.  It  is  just  a  mat- 
ter of  knowing  the  simple  command- 
ments of  God  and  living  and  keeping 
them. 

May  I  bring  your  attention  in  closing 
to  some  sentences  from  Mr.  Cecil  B. 
DeMille  in  his  great  address  to  the 
graduates  of  Brigham  Young  University 
last  June: 

We  cannot  break  the  Ten  Command- 
ments. We  can  only  break  ourselves  against 
them — or  else,  by  keeping  them,  rise  through 
them  to  the  fulness  of  freedom  under  God. 
God  means  us  to  be  free.  With  divine 
daring,  He  gave  us  the  power  of  choice. 

One  choice  sentence  from  an  un- 
known source: 

Human  harvests  are  not  just  gathered  in 
the  autumn  of  life.  They  are  planted,  culti- 
vated, and  reaped,  each  and  every  day. 

For  to  be  carnally  minded  is  death;  but 
to  be  spiritually  minded  is  life  and  peace. 

May  God  help  us  and  our  youth  and 
all  the  generations,  as  we  mingle  the 
voices  or  the  past  with  those  of  the 
present,  to  walk  the  ways  that  will  lead 
to  life  and  peace,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
our  Redeemer,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


78 

Saturday,  April  5 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Richard  L.  Evans,  a  member 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  Elder 
Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy  will  be  our  concluding 
speaker. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


In  the  session  of  conference  this 
morning,  I  am  sure  that  all  of  you  lis- 
tened with  great  satisfaction  and  joy  as 
did  I  to  President  Clark's  very  wonder- 
ful account  of  Christ's  last  few  days 
upon  the  earth,  his  crucifixion,  and  his 
glorious  resurrection,  which  broke  the 
bands  of  death  and  brought  about  the 
resurrection  for  the  entire  human  fam- 
ily. Thus  the  Only  Begotten  Son  gave 
general  salvation  to  all  the  people  who 
have  lived  or  who  shall  live  in  this 
world  as  a  free  gift,  in  that  he  redeemed 
them  from  the  grave.   Paul  declared: 

For  as  in  Adam  all  die,  even  so  in  Christ 
shall  all  be  made  alive.  (I  Cor.  15:22.) 

In  addition  to  this,  Jesus  Christ 
through  the  gospel  plan  of  salvation 
made  it  possible  for  all  people  who  will 
pay  the  price  to  come  back  into  his 
presence  and  dwell  forever  in  celestial 
glory. 

Perhaps  the  greatest  statement  in  the 
scriptures  which  defines  the  work  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son — consummated 
however  through  the  "Lamb  of  God" — 
declares  that  ".  .  .  this  is  my  work  and 
my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immor- 
tality and  eternal  life  of  man."  (Moses 
1:39.)  Thus  through  Christ's  resurrec- 
tion he  gave  every  man,  woman,  and 
child  who  live  in  this  world  immortality, 
i.  e.,  resurrection  from  the  grave. 
Through  the  plan  of  salvation,  or  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  he  made  it  pos- 
sible for  all  people  who  would  receive 
him  and  the  gospel  the  opportunity  to 
work  out  their  exaltation.  For  those 
who  would  receive  the  gospel  without 
entering  into  the  covenant  of  celestial 
marriage,  but  however  remain  faithful 
to  the  end  of  their  lives,  Christ's  re- 
demption and  their  faithfulness  prom- 
ises them  a  place  in  celestial  glory. 

This  afternoon  I  desire  to  talk  upon 
the  phase  of  the  atonement  of  Jesus 
Christ  which  will  be  effective  in  the 


lives  of  that  part  of  the  human  family 
whom  God  the  Father  hath  given  unto 
the  Son — those  who  will  enter  celestial 
glory.  If  I  were  to  give  a  title  to  what 
I  desire  to  talk  about,  it  would  be, 
"Cleansed  or  Sanctified  through  the 
Blood  of  the  Lamb." 

After  Adam  and  Eve  were  cast  from 
the  Garden  of  Eden,  through  diverse 
ways  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  was 
given  to  Father  Adam;  namely,  by  the 
administration  of  angels,  by  the  voice 
of  Jehovah,  and  by  the  witness  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  We  read  in  the  scriptures: 

And  thus  the  Gospel  began  to  be  preached, 
from  the  beginning,  being  declared  by  holy 
angels  sent  forth  from  the  presence  of  God, 
and  by  his  own  voice,  and  by  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost.  (Moses  5:58.) 

On  a  certain  occasion  Adam  was  offer- 
ing a  sacrifice,  and  an  angel  appeared 
unto  him  and  asked: 

Why  dost  thou  offer  sacrifices  unto  the 
Lord?  And  Adam  said  unto  him:  I  know 
not,  save  the  Lord  commanded  me. 

And  then  the  angel  spake,  saying:  This 
thing  is  a  similitude  of  the  sacrifice  of  the 
Only  Begotten  of  the  Father,  which  is  full 
of  grace  and  truth. 

Wherefore,  thou  shalt  do  all  that  thou 
doest  in  the  name  of  the  Son,  and  thou 
shalt  repent  and  call  upon  God  in  the  name 
of  the  Son  forevermore.  (Ibid.,  5:6-8.) 

And  the  voice  of  God  spoke  from 
heaven,  commanding  all  men  every- 
where that  they  must  repent  of  all  of 
their  sins,  and  take  upon  themselves  the 
name  of  the  Son  and  be  baptized: 

And  as  many  as  believed  in  the  Son,  and 
repented  of  their  sins  should  be  saved;  and 
as  many  as  believed  not  and  repented  not, 
should  be  damned.  (See  ibid.,  5:14-15;  6:50- 
58.) 

Thus  in  the  very  beginning  Adam 
and  his  posterity  were  given  the  law  of 
sacrifice.    They  were  to  take  lambs — 


ELDER  MILTC 

perfect  lambs  without  spot  or  blemish 
— shed  their  blood,  and  sacrifice  them. 
The  blood  and  bodies  of  the  lambs 
represented  the  great  atoning  sacrifice 
of  the  Only  Begotten  Son  of  God — the 
Lamb  of  God  slain  from  the  foundation 
of  the  world  to  redeem  his  people. 
Adam  was  told  that  the  Lamb  of  God 
would  come  to  earth  in  the  Meridian  of 
Time,  and  that  his  name  was  ".  .  .  Jesus 
Christ,  the  only  name  which  shall  be 
given  under  heaven  whereby  salvation 
shall  come  unto  the  children  of  men, 
.  .  ."  (Moses  6:52.)  Thus  Adam  and 
his  posterity  who  accepted  the  gospel 
observed  the  law  of  sacrifice  to  com- 
memorate the  Savior's  sacrifice. 

The  night  before  the  Israelites  left 
Egypt,  in  compliance  with  a  command- 
ment of  the  Lord  given  to  Moses,  each 
family  took  a  lamb  without  spot  or 
blemish.  They  shed  the  blood  of  these 
lambs,  and  sprinkled  it  upon  the  door- 
posts of  their  homes.  During  that  night 
the  destroying  angel  passed  through 
Egypt,  and  passed  by  all  the  homes  on 
whose  doorposts  blood  had  been 
sprinkled;  but  in  the  households  where 
there  was  no  blood  on  the  doorposts 
the  firstborn  died.  After  the  Israelites 
had  left  Egypt,  the  Lord  commanded 
them  to  commemorate  that  great  event 
by  the  observance  of  a  feast  once  each 
year  known  as  the  Feast  of  the  Pass- 
over. 

The  pastoral  lambs  were  of  special  im- 
portance in  that  feast;  as  I  have  already 
said,  they  were  lambs  without  spot  or 
blemish,  which  lambs  symbolized  the 
Lamb  of  God,  he  who  would  come  in 
the  Meridian  of  Time  to  redeem  those 
who  would  accept  him. 

We  find  that  many  of  the  ancient 
prophets  spoke  of  Christ  under  such 
terminology  as  the  "Lamb  of  God"  or 
the  "Lamb  slain  from  the  foundation 
of  the  world  to  redeem  his  people."  For 
example,  John  the  Baptist  was  standing 
on  the  banks  of  the  Jordan  River  con- 
versing with  John,  the  son  of  Zebedee, 
and  Andrew,  Peter's  brother.  That  an- 
cient prophet,  seeing  Jesus  coming  to- 
ward them,  said,  "Behold  the  Lamb  of 
God,  which  taketh  away  the  sin  of  the 
world."  (John  1:29,  34-36.) 

Nephi,  after  having  had  a  vision,  said 
that  the  garments  of  the  apostles  of 


R.  HUNTER  79 

Jesus  ".  .  .  are  made  white  ...  in  the 
blood  of  the  Lamb."  Amulek,  speaking 
of  those  who  would  inherit  celestial 
glory,  said:  ".  .  .  their  garments  should 
be  made  white  through  the  blood  of 
the  Lamb,"  whose  sacrifice  would  be 
"infinite  and  eternal."  (Alma  34:36, 
14.)  And  then  Amulek  explained  in 
some  detail  that  no  mortal  man  could 
sacrifice  his  blood  for  the  salvation  of 
the  human  family.  It  must  be  the  sacri- 
fice of  a  Divine  Being,  even  the  Son  of 
God,  whose  sacrifice  must  be  infinite 
and  eternal. 

The  night  before  King  Benjamin  was 
to  turn  his  throne  and  the  leadership 
of  the  people  over  to  his  son  Mosiah,  an 
angel  appeared  to  him  and  told  him 
that  in  the  near  future  Christ  would 
come  into  the  world.  The  angel  de- 
scribed the  great  work  that  Jesus  would 
perform,  and  then  he  said: 

And  lo,  he  shall  suffer  temptations,  and 
pain  of  body,  hunger,  thirst,  and  fatigue, 
even  more  than  man  can  suffer,  except  it 
be  unto  death;  for  behold,  blood  cometh 
from  every  pore,  so  great  shall  be  his  anguish 
for  the  wickedness  and  abominations  of 
his  people.  (Mosiah  3:7.) 

President  Clark  told  us  this  morning 
about  the  Last  Supper,  and  I  would  like 
to  refer  to  that  great  event  once  more. 
It  was  at  the  Last  Supper,  held  the  night 
before  the  Savior's  crucifixion,  that 
Jesus  broke  the  bread  and  passed  it 
to  his  disciples  and  told  them  to  eat  it 
in  remembrance  of  his  flesh;  and  then 
he  gave  them  the  cup — the  wine — and 
told  them  to  drink  it  in  remembrance 
of  his  blood,  thus  instituting  new  sym- 
bols or  emblems  of  his  great  atoning 
sacrifice  to  take  the  place  of  the  body 
and  the  blood  of  the  lamb. 

Then  Jesus  left  the  upstairs  room  in 
Jerusalem  and  with  his  apostles  went 
to  the  Garden  of  Gethsemane.  There 
he  suffered  terrifically,  as  Benjamin  had 
predicted,  "even  more  than  man  can 
suffer."   In  fact,  we  read  in  Luke: 

And  being  in  an  agony  he  prayed  more 
earnestly:  and  his  sweat  was  as  it  were 
great  drops  of  blood  falling  down  to  the 
ground.  (Luke  22:44.) 

There  he  shed  much  of  his  blood  and 
took  upon  himself  the  sins  of  those  who 
would  receive  him. 


80 

Saturday,  April  5 

Now  I  would  like  to  ask  a  question: 
Who  will  be  cleansed  or  sanctified 
through  the  blood  of  the  Lamb? 

Perhaps  it  would  be  best  to  go  to  the 
scriptures  and  see  what  the  prophets  of 
God  have  said  on  this  subject.  King 
Benjamin  claimed  that  "the  blood  of 
Christ  atoneth  for"  the  sins  of  little 
children  who  die  before  they  reach  the 
age  of  accountability.  (Mosiah  3:16.) 
Mormon  wrote  a  revelation  from  Christ 
to  his  son  Moroni,  stating  that 

.  .  .  little  children  are  whole,  for  they  are 
not  capable  of  committing  sin;  wherefore 
the  curse  of  Adam  is  taken  from  them  in 
me,  ...  I 

But  little  children  are  alive  in  Christ,  even 
from  the  foundation  of  the  world.  (Moroni 
8:8,  12.)  ! 

In  modern  revelation,  we  read: 

But  little  children  are  holy,  being  sancti- 
fied through  the  atonement  of  Jesus  Christ. 
(D  &  C  74:7;  29:46-47.) 

Also,  according  to  King  Benjamin, 
Christ's  blood  will  cleanse  or  sanctify 
those  people  who  do  not  have  a  chance 
to  receive  the  gospel  in  mortality  but 
who  live  lives  sufficiently  good  that  tem- 
ple work  will  be  effective  for  them  and 
who  receive  the  gospel  in  the  spirit 
world.  To  quote  that  ancient  prophet- 
king: 

For  behold,  and  also  his  blood  atoneth 
for  the  sins  of  those  who  have  fallen  by 
the  transgression  of  Adam,  who  have  died 
not  knowing  the  will  of  God  concerning 
them,  or  who  have  ignorantly  sinned. 
(Mosiah  3:11.) 

Third — and  this  is  of  great  importance 
to  every  member  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  to 
all  people  throughout  the  world  who 
are  honest  in  heart  and  who  desire  to 
come  back  into  the  presence  of  God — 
Christ's  blood  will  cleanse  or  sanctify  all 
those  who  take  upon  themselves  the 
name  of  Christ  through  faith,  repent- 
ance, baptism,  and  confirmation,  and 
then  by  keeping  his  commandments  live 
faithfully  to  the  end. 

When  the  gospel  was  first  given  to 
Adam,  certain  ordinances  were  estab- 
lished which  were  necessary  for  entrance 
into  celestial  glory,  and  they  were  very 
beautiful  in  their  symbolism.  Adam 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

was  commanded  that  all  men  must  re- 
pent, be  baptized,  receive  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  keep  God's  commandments, 
preparatory  to  being  sanctified  through 
the  blood  of  the  Lamb.  I  would  like 
to  read  a  very  powerful  statement  from 
the  Pearl  of  Great  Price: 

That  by  reason  of  transgression  cometh 
the  fall,  which  fall  bringeth  death,  and  in- 
asmuch as  ye  were  born  into  the  world  by 
water,  and  blood,  and  the  spirit,  which  I 
have  made,  and  so  became  of  dust  a  living 
soul,  even  so  ye  must  be  born  again  into 
the  kingdom  of  heaven,  of  water,  and  of 
the  Spirit,  and  be  cleansed  by  blood,  even 
the  blood  of  mine  Only  Begotten;  that  ye 
might  be  sanctified  from  all  sin,  and  enjoy 
the  words  of  eternal  life  in  this  world,  and 
eternal  life  in  the  world  to  come,  even  im- 
mortal glory; 

For  by  the  water  ye  keep  the  command- 
ment; by  the  Spirit  ye  are  justified,  and  by 
the  blood  ye  are  sanctified.  (Moses  6:59-60.) 

Alma,  Amulek,  Nephi,  John  the 
Revelator,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
numerous  other  prophets,  and  even  the 
Master,  definitely  declared  that  Christ's 
blood  would  cleanse  or  sanctify  those 
who  would  accept  the  true  church,  keep 
God's  commandments,  and  eventually 
enter  celestial  glory.  Speaking  of  the 
great  patriarchs  who  lived  in  ancient 
times,  Alma  wrote: 

Thus  they  became  high  priests  forever, 
after  the  order  of  the  Son,  the  Only  Begotten 
of  the  Father,  .  .  .  and  it  was  on  account 
of  their  exceeding  faith  and  repentance,  and 
their  righteousness  before  God,  .  .  . 

Therefore  they  were  called  after  this  holy 
order  and  were  sanctified,  and  their  gar- 
ments were  washed  white  through  the 
blood  of  the  Lamb.  (Alma  13:9-10.) 

One  of  the  clearest  and  most  definite 
statements  on  this  subject  was  made  by 
Amulek. 

And  he  [Christ]  shall  come  into  the  world 
to  redeem  his  people;  and  he  shall  take  upon 
him  the  transgressions  of  those  who  believe 
on  his  name;  and  these  are  they  that  shall 
have  eternal  life,  and  salvation  cometh  to 
none  else. 

Therefore  the  wicked  remain  as  though 
there  had  been  no  redemption  made,  ex- 
cept it  be  the  loosing  of  the  hands  of  death; 
for  behold,  the  day  cometh  that  all  shall 
rise  from  the  dead  and  stand  before  God, 
and  be  judged  according  to  their  works. 
(Alma  11:40-41.) 


ELDER  MILTC 

Let  us  quote  the  words  of  the  resur- 
rected Lord  to  the  Nephites  on  this  sub- 
ject: 

And  no  unclean  thing  can  enter  into  his 
[the  Father's]  kingdom;  therefore  nothing 
entereth  into  his  rest  save  it  be  those  who 
have  washed  their  garments  in  my  blood, 
because  of  their  faith,  and  the  repentence 
of  all  their  sins,  and  their  faithfulness  unto 
the  end.  (3  Nephi  27:19-20.) 

Ether  described  the  second  coming  of 
Christ,  accompanied  by  the  hosts  of 
heaven,  to  dwell  upon  the  earth  during 
the  millennium,  as  follows: 

And  then  cometh  the  New  Jerusalem;  and 
blessed  are  they  who  dwell  therein,  for  it 
is  they  whose  garments  are  white  through 
the  blood  of  the  Lamb;  .  .  . 

And  then  also  cometh  the  Jerusalem  of 
old;  and  the  inhabitants  thereof,  blessed  are 
they,  for  they  have  been  washed  in  the 
blood  of  the  Lamb.  (Ether  13:10-11.) 

In  closing  I  would  like  to  remind  all 
members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  that  you  and  I  have 
taken  upon  ourselves  the  name  of  Christ 
through  faith,  repentance,  baptism,  and 
confirmation.  All  of  us  have  entered 
into  a  covenant  that  we  will  keep  all 
of  God's  commandments.  The  Lord 
has  promised  us  that  if  we  do  so  and 
remain  faithful  to  the  end  that  someday 
we  shall  be  quickened  by  a  celestial 
power.  At  that  time  we  shall  rise  as 
celestial  beings,  and  enter  into  the  pres- 
ence of  God.  Then  the  righteous  shall 
be  sanctified  through  the  blood  of  the 
Lamb  and  be  worthy  to  dwell  in  the 
presence  of  the  Lamb  of  God  forever- 
more. 

May  this  be  our  happy  lot  and  also 
the  happy  lot  of  all  those  who  will  re- 
ceive the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  I  pray 
in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken. 
You  will  all  remember:  "As  in  Adam  all 
die,  evenso  in  Christ  shall  all  be  made 
alive." 

Tonight  in  the  Tabernacle  the  Gen- 
eral Priesthood  Meeting  will  be  held, 
commencing  at  7  o'clock.  Tomorrow 
morning  the  Tabernacle  Choir  Broad- 
cast will  be  from  9:30  to  10  o'clock. 


f  R.  HUNTER  81 

Those  desiring  to  attend  this  broadcast 
must  be  in  their  seats  at  9:15  a.m.  We 
remind  you  that  large  crowds  will  un- 
doubtedly be  waiting  outside  the 
closed  doors,  and  when  they  are  opened 
there  is  usually  a  rush  by  those  out- 
side to  get  good  seats.  We  plead  with 
persons  thus  standing  to  be  courteous 
and  considerate  one  to  another.  Avoid 
pushing  and  crowding,  will  you  please. 
Courtesy  is  a  great  virtue.  Let  us 
show  it  one  to  another,  and  especially 
to  our  visitors  who  are  within  our 
gates. 

You  will  be  interested  to  know  that 
only  those  holding  the  Priesthood  are 
invited  to  be  present  tonight.  Persons 
not  holding  the  Priesthood  will  kindly 
refrain  from  attempting  to  enter  the 
building.  This  Priesthood  session  will 
not  be  broadcast,  but  in  addition  to 
overflow  meetings  in  the  Assembly  Hall 
and  in  Barratt  Hall,  the  proceedings  of 
this  Priesthood  meeting  will  be  re- 
layed by  closed  circuit  to  members  of 
the  Priesthood  assembled  in  128  other 
Church  buildings  from  Coast  to  Coast 
and  in  Canada. 

The  singing  for  this  session,  as  we 
have  already  informed  you,  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Combined  Choruses  of 
the  Logan  Latter-day  Saints  Institute 
and  the  Utah  State  University  at  Logan, 
under  the  direction  of  Alma  Dittmer, 
with  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  wish  to  express  our  appreciation 
once  again  for  these  young  men  and 
women  from  the  colleges  and  universi- 
ties. The  hours  they  have  spent  in 
practice  in  the  weeks  that  have  gone  by 
resulted  in  the  inspiration  of  their  sing- 
ing the  songs  of  Zion  to  this  group  to- 
day, and  we  thank  you  for  the  effort 
you  have  put  forth  during  these  hours 
of  practice,  the  effort  you  have  had  to 
put  forth  coming  down  in  buses  this 
day,  and  particularly  for  your  inspira- 
tional singing  during  these  sessions. 
The  Lord  bless  you.  We  are  proud 
of  you.  We  are  glad  to  have  had  your 
company  as  well  as  your  inspirational 
singing.  May  the  Lord's  protecting 
care  be  with  you  going  back  to  your 
homes,  and  may  this  experience  ever  be 
a  happy  memory  for  you,  as  it  will  be 
for  all  of  us. 

They  will  now  sing,  "Glorious  Is  Thy 
Name,  Almighty  Lord,"  and  the  bene- 


82 

Saturday,  April  5 

diction  will  be  offered  by  Elder  Sidney 
J.  Ottley,  formerly  president  of  the 
New  Zealand  Mission.  After  the  bene- 
diction this  Conference  will  be  ad- 
journed until  tomorrow  morning  at 
10  o'clock. 

Singing  by  the  Combined  Choruses  of 
the  Logan  Latter-day  Saints  Institute 
and  the  Utah  State  University,  "Glorious 
Is  Thy  Name,  Almighty  Lord." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 
Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

of  the  Twelve  will  be  the  speaker  on 
the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System's 
Church  of  the  Air  program  tomorrow 
morning  at  7:30  o'clock.  The  Taber- 
nacle Choir  will  furnish  the  music,  and 
that  address  will  be  repeated  tomor- 
row at  9:00  p.m. 

Elder  Ottley  will  now  offer  the  bene- 
diction. 


Elder  Sidney  J.  Ottley,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  New  Zealand  Mission,  of- 
fered the  closing  prayer. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of 
the  Church  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle 
at  7:00  p.m.,  Saturday,  April  5.  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay  presided  and  con- 
ducted the  meeting. 

The  choral  singing  for  this  session  was 
furnished  by  the  Men's  Chorus  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Richard  P. 
Condie  as  director  and  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  fifth  session  of  the  One 
Hundred  Twenty-Eighth  Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  You  will  be  in- 
terested to  know  that  these  services  are 
being  relayed  by  closed  circuit  to  mem- 
bers of  the  Priesthood  gathered  in  the 
Assembly  Hall,  Barratt  Hall,  and  in  128 
other  Church  buildings  from  coast  to 
coast,  and  in  Canada.  We  hope  you 
have  already  seen  them  in  print. 

This  is  a  very  remarkable  Priest- 
hood gathering  tonight. 

The  singing  during  this  session  will 
be  furnished  by  the  Men's  Chorus  of 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Richard 
P.  Condie  as  Director,  and  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  open  these  services  by  the 
Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
singing,  "Guide  Me  To  Thee,"  with 
Richard  P.  Condie  conducting.  After 
the  singing  Elder  Charles  V.  Liljenquist, 
formerly  president  of  the  Australian 
Mission,  will  offer  the  opening  prayer. 


Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
Men's  Chorus,  "Guide  Me  to  Thee." 

Elder  Charles  V.  Liljenquist,  formerly 
president  of  the  Australian  Mission, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  will  now  sing,  "Seek  Thy  God," 
directed  by  Richard  P.  Condie. 


A  selection,  "Seek  Thy  God,"  was  sung 
by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  Male  Chorus. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  are  glad  that  the  plane  carrying 
30  servicemen  from  Fort  Campbell, 
Kentucky,  has  arrived.  We  hope  they 
will  find  room  in  one  of  the  buildings 
somewhere  to  participate  in  this  Priest- 
hood Meeting.  We  are  glad  to  wel- 
come the  five  servicemen  from  Dow 
Field  in  Bangor,  Maine.  This  gives  us 
an  idea  of  how  widely  spread  are  the 
participants  in  this  great  Priesthood 
Meeting. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Lowell 
L.  Bennion,  head  of  the  Institute  at  the 
University  of  Utah.  He  will  speak  and 
give  a  special  message  by  request  of 
the  First  Presidency  on  a  question  which 
is  of  vital  importance,  a  condition  of 
very  vital  importance  for  our  young 
people  throughout  the  entire  Church. 


83 


ELDER  LOWELL  L.  BENNION 

Director  of  Salt  Lake  City  LDS  Institute  of  Religion 


I  have  two  requests  before  launching 
into  this  subject  assigned  to  me.  The 
first  is  that  my  Father  in  heaven  will 
be  gracious  unto  you  and  me  and  let 
me  talk  with  the  influence  of  his  Spirit. 
And  the  other  is  to  President  McKay. 
He  has  asked  me  to  be  quite  explicit, 
concrete,  and  as  helpful  as  I  can  be  on 
an  important  subject.  He  has  given 
me  full  freedom  and  trust  to  develop 
this  subject  as  I  see  fit,  and  I  would 
like  to  encourage  him  to  feel  equally 
free  to  qualify  and  correct  and  even 
rebuke  anything  that  I  might  say,  if 
he  finds  it  not  in  harmony  with  his 
wisdom  and  inspiration. 

Since  early  childhood  in  the  Mormon 
Church,  two  ideals  have  been  con- 
stantly placed  before  us:  a  good  mar- 
riage and  chastity.  We  have  heard 
beautiful,  inspiring  talks  by  President 
David  O.  McKay  and  President  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith  on  this  same  subject. 

There  is  nothing  that  I  would  wish 
for  young  men,  there  is  nothing  I 
would  ask  for  my  own  sons  more  than 
that  each  of  them  might  find  happiness 
in  a  good  marriage — the  kind  of  happi- 
ness which  their  father  has  found  with 
their  mother — and  for  them  to  know  the 
joy  of  having  sons  as  fine  as  they  are. 

My  young  brethren,  there  is  nothing 
on  earth  that  can  satisfy  the  whole 
man  and  make  the  struggle  and  the 
adventure  of  living  so  worthwhile  as  a 
good  marriage.  And  chastity  is  so  im- 
portant because  it  is  the  foundation  of 
personal  happiness,  of  making  a  girl 
happy,  and  of  a  happy  marriage. 

We  have  the  feeling,  my  brethren, 
that  we  are  not  succeeding  too  well  in 
the  Church  today  in  regard  to  marriage 
and  chastity.  I  do  not  mean  to  infer 
that  we  are  not  doing  pretty  well  and 
that  we  do  not  have  wonderful  mar- 
riages and  virtuous,  clean  young  people 
in  the  Church.  But  I  am  told  that  the 
divorce  rate  in  Utah  a  year  or  two  ago 
was  higher  than  the  national  average. 

I  know  from  personal  consultation 
the  tragedy  that  comes  into  the  lives 
of  boys  and  girls  when  they  break  down 
their  moral  standards  before  marriage. 
I  have  the  deepest  sympathy  for  people 


who  fail  in  marriage  and  who  fail  to 
live  up  to  this  great  ideal  of  chastity.  I 
believe  in  repentance  and  forgiveness, 
but  I  would  like  to  try  to  say  in  a  prac- 
tical way  something  on  the  positive 
side  to  bring  about  happier  marriages 
and  finer  moral  living. 

What  is  causing  so  much  divorce  and 
the  breaking  down  of  our  moral  stand- 
ards? This  is  a  complex  subject;  let 
me  suggest  only  one  possible  explana- 
tion of  it. 

One  day  a  girl  came  into  my  office — 
a  fine  Latter-day  Saint  girl — with  tear- 
filled  eyes. 

I  said,  "What's  the  trouble?" 

She  replied,  "I  want  to  get  married." 

I  said,  "That's  a  worthy  goal." 

"But,"  she  continued,  "my  father 
doesn't  want  me  to  marry  the  boy  I'm 
in  love  with." 

"Why  not?" 

"Father  says  he  is  spineless.  My 
mother  doesn't  want  me  to  marry  him 
either." 

"Why  not?" 

"She  says  that  after  the  marriage, 
he  will  not  be  as  polite  and  courte- 
ous as  he  is  now." 

I  said,  "What  do  you  think  of  this 
boy?  Is  he  spineless?  Will  he  be 
courteous  to  you  after  marriage?" 

"I  don't  know,"  she  replied.  "But  I 
love  him;  and  isn't  that  all  that  mat- 
ters?" 

I  said  to  her,  "It's  all  that  matters,  if 
you  have  the  right  kind  of  love;  but 
the  kind  of  love  that  people  know  in  a 
typical  courtship  in  our  society  is  not 
big  enough  for  marriage." 

It  is  so  common  for  very  young  boys 
and  girls  to  become  interested  in  each 
other;  to  date  repeatedly,  steadily,  and 
frequently;  to  exchange  affection  in- 
creasingly; and  then,  after  a  period  of 
what  I  would  like  to  call  "romanticized 
recreation,"  they  get  married  and  ex- 
pect happiness. 

Let  me  tell  the  unmarried  that 
marriage  is  more  than  romanticized 
recreation.  Marriage  is  more  than  dates 
and  affection.  True,  romantic  love  is 
part  of  marriage,  a  very  beautiful  part. 


84 

Saturday,  April  5 

But  in  addition,  marriage  is  a  business 
and  financial  partnership.  Moreover, 
marriage  is  especially  a  human  relation- 
ship— an  everyday  and  all  day  and  con- 
tinuous companionship  between  hus- 
band and  wife.  This  is  one  of  the 
beautiful  aspects  of  it.  It  is  also  the 
realistic  part. 

The  big  thing  in  marriage  is  to  know 
how  to  live  together,  to  understand  each 
other,  to  be  congenial  and  cooperative. 
Then,  after  the  children  come,  the  very 
difficult  and  interesting  task  is  to  have 
a  congenial  relationship  between  parent 
and  child,  and  in  the  family  as  a  whole. 

Recreation  and  romance  alone  are 
not  the  right  kinds  of  relationships  to 
prepare  people  for  a  business  partner- 
ship and  for  the  human  relationships 
which  we  find  in  marriage  and  family 
life.  I  was  told  that  of  boys  and  girls 
who  were  married  while  in  one  high 
school  in  this  valley,  within  one  year 
50  per  cent  of  them  were  divorced.  I 
cannot  say  that  this  is  true  for  sure, 
but  I  can  believe  that  it  might  be. 

I  would  like  to  suggest  to  you  un- 
married young  men,  who,  in  this  land 
of  America,  have  all  the  freedom  in 
the  world,  who  have  all  the  leisure, 
the  money,  automobiles  and  oppor- 
tunities to  help  you  choose  your  com- 
panions for  life,  how  to  prepare  for 
marriage. 

In  this  wonderful  period  from  about 
the  age  of  12  to  whenever  you  are 
married — 21,  23,  25  or  what  age  it  might 
be — instead  of  plunging  right  into  a 
courtship  relationship  in  your  young 
high  school  years  and  being  so  terribly 
concerned  about  the  romantic  aspect 
of  life,  why  not  think  ahead  and  take 
a  long  view?  Think  in  terms  of  pre- 
paring yourself  for  marriage.  I  have 
three  suggestions  to  make  in  this  con- 
nection: 

First  of  all,  use  these  years  to  prepare 
yourself  to  be  a  good  husband  and 
father.  Learn  how  to  work,  because 
after  you  are  married,  you  must  work 
to  be  happy.  Learn  a  vocation  which 
will  satisfy  your  mind,  your  soul,  and 
your  creative  urges.  Learn  how  to  live 
with  other  people:  first  in  your  own 
home  and  in  your  neighborhood.  Learn 
to  love  to  work  in  the  Church — some- 
thing you  can  do  all  the  days  of  your 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

life.  Learn  to  read  good  books,  to  lis- 
ten to  beautiful  music,  to  serve  your 
neighbor.  Build  within  yourself  re- 
sources that  will  make  of  you  a  mature, 
manly  adult  by  the  time  of  your  mar- 
riage. 

And  secondly,  in  your  relations  with 
girls  during  these  wonderful  years — 
these  promising  years — do  not  settle 
down  to  a  steady  relationship  in  your 
early  teens,  when  you  have  had  little 
experience  in  understanding  yourself 
and  girls.  Rather,  build  friendships — 
many  friendships.  Do  not  take  yourself 
quite  so  seriously  in  courtship  in  the 
early  years.  Make  friends  with  several 
girls.  Take  out  two  or  three  over  the 
same  period  of  time.  There  you  will 
have  comparative  value.  You  will  get 
to  understand  girls  and  to  know  them 
as  friends.  You  will  understand  your 
relationship  to  them  and  learn  how  to 
communicate  with  them.  You  will  lay 
the  foundations  of  fine  human  relations 
with  the  opposite  sex.  Associate  on  a 
group  basis  a  great  deal. 

And  third,  brethren:  After  you  have 
proved  yourself  to  be  a  man,  after  you 
are  ready  to  earn  a  living  for  your  fam- 
ily in  good  measure,  after  you  have 
much  to  offer  to  your  prospective  wife, 
then  I  suggest  that  you  look  around  to 
find  a  girl  who  has  much  to  offer  to  you 
and  to  your  great  purpose  in  building  a 
good  family  life.  Choose  from  among 
all  the  fine  girls  that  you  have  known, 
or  find  another  girl  with  whom  you  may 
build  an  enduring  friendship.  And  go 
slowly  with  this  girl,  building  a  broad, 
deep  friendship  with  her. 

After  you  are  friends;  when  you  know 
that  you  can  be  business  partners; 
when  you  know  that  you  can  enjoy 
each  other's  companionship;  when  you 
know  you  have  common  ideals,  pur- 
poses and  desires  for  life,  and  that  you 
can  help  each  other  to  fulfill  your  very 
beings,  then  let  romantic  interest  de- 
velop gradually,  may  I  say,  and  find  its 
fulfillment  after  marriage.  I  know  that 
if  a  young  man  will  build  his  marriage 
on  the  foundation  of  friendships  first, 
culminating  in  a  single  friendship  with 
a  wonderful  girl,  and  will  let  romance 
come  last,  his  marriage  will  be  as  solid 
as  a  pyramid.  People  who  become  ro- 
mantic first  and  then  get  married  will 


ELDER  LOWELL  L.  BENNION 


85 


have  to  wait  until  after  the  wedding  to 
see  if  they  can  be  friends.  Some  of 
them  find  they  cannot  be  friends. 

Every  year,  except  when  we  have  a 
bad  frost,  I  go  out  to  my  little  peach 
orchard  around  the  first  of  September, 
and  there  I  pick  beautiful  tree-ripened 
peaches — peaches  with  that  golden  color 
which  drop  into  your  hand  with  a  slight 
turn  of  the  peach.  The  youngest  boy 
in  our  family  can  not  wait  until  the 
first  of  September.  He  dashes  out  into 
the  orchard  the  end  of  July,  when  the 
first  red  comes  on  the  peach.  Eagerly 
he  picks  the  peach  and  bites  into  it. 
Finding  it  hard  and  bitter,  he  throws 
it  and  often  a  peck  of  other  green 
peaches,  on  the  ground.  What  is  the 
difference  between  his  approach  and 
mine?  In  February  I  prune  the  trees. 
In  May  I  start  to  thin  the  peaches,  to 
cultivate  the  soil  and  to  irrigate  once  a 
week  in  the  night.  With  great  love 
and  affection,  I  watch  the  peaches  grow 
and  I  wait,  with  self-control,  until  the 
peach  is  ripe.  My  little  boy  cannot 
wait. 

So  it  is  with  love,  my  young  friends. 
Those  who  will  build  friendship,  who 
will  build  Latter-day  Saint  ideals  of 
character  into  their  own  lives  and  pre- 
pare themselves  for  marriage,  and  who 
will  wait  and  practice  self-control  until 
they  are  mature  and  until  they  earn 
the  right  to  a  deep  love,  they  will  know 
what  real  love  is — the  kind  of  love  that 
is  part  of  life — the  fruit  of  a  good  life 
together.  Those  who  are  interested 
only  in  the  taste  and  the  flavor,  and 
who  rush  into  a  romantic  relationship, 
often  taste  a  bitter  fruit. 

Now,  my  dear  brethren — you  who 
are  father,  teachers,  leaders  and  bishops 
— our  young  people  live  in  an  age  of 
great  temptation.  They  need  help  and 
guidance.  I  would  like  to  make  five 
specific,  concrete  suggestions  on  how 
we  can  help  them  to  court  and  pre- 
pare for  marriage  more  wisely. 

The  first  one  is  this:  I  think  we 
should  discourage  and  not  promote  too 
early  dating  between  the  sexes.  The 
other  night  a  mother  came  to  me  and 
said  that  her  11-year-old  daughter,  who 
is  in  the  sixth  grade,  insists  upon  using 
rouge  and  cosmetics  and  wants  a  date 
every  week  with  a  boy  in  the  same  class. 


The  other  Saturday  I  came  home 
and  found  our  12-year-old  son  pre- 
paring to  go  on  a  date  with  an  11- 
year-old  neighbor  girl  to  a  private  danc- 
ing party  two  blocks  away,  at  a  home 
in  which  we  were  not  acquainted.  I 
took  the  liberty  of  breaking  up  the  date 
with  as  much  grace  as  I  could. 

Brethren,  if  our  young  men  must 
wait  until  they  are  20,  23,  25,  or  even 
29,  until  they  are  married,  why  should 
we  rush  this  boy-girl  dating  relation- 
ship? Why  should  we  encourage  it 
too  much  through  the  schools  and 
through  our  Church  groups?  I  would 
say  let  us  be  careful. 

Secondly:  You  cannot  just  dam  off 
human  nature,  any  more  than  you  dam 
off  water.  If  you  dam  off  water,  it 
will  break  out  in  another  place.  If 
you  dam  off  human  nature,  it,  too,  will 
break  out  in  some  unwholesome  way. 
So,  while  we  are  discouraging  early 
dating,  I  think  we  must  substitute  some- 
thing in  its  place.  My  second  thought, 
then,  is  this:  Make  life  meaningful  and 
rich  for  the  boy  as  a  boy,  and  for  the 
girl  as  a  girl,  during  these  early  teen 
years;  in  fact,  all  through  adolescence. 

If  a  boy  can  find  himself  through 
work,  through  gaining  skill,  through 
learning,  through  fulfilling  responsi- 
bility, and  can  get  basic  satisfactions 
within  himself  during  these  years,  he 
will  not  be  overly  dependent  upon  his 
relationships  with  girls.  He  will  not 
hunger  for  a  steady  relationship  nor  for 
a  deep  affectional  relationship  with  a 
girl  to  prove  his  own  worth  or  to  find 
security  within  himself  or  self-esteem. 

Can  we  make  priesthood  work  so 
interesting  in  itself  for  our  young  men 
that  it  will  satisfy  their  souls?  Boys 
must  have  satisfaction! 

Can  we  train  a  girl  to  develop  her 
talent,  her  music,  her  household  skills, 
even  to  have  experiences  in  service,  in 
worship,  in  responsibilities,  so  that  she 
is  not  looking  at  a  boy  all  the  time — 
maybe  only  half  of  the  time? 

Just  think  of  all  the  stimulation 
which  comes  to  them  to  be  romantic 
and  to  have  romantic  interests,  from 
movies,  advertising,  and  from  their  own 
biological  natures.  Let  us  make  activi- 
ties for  boys  meaningful  to  boys  and 
activities  for  girls  meaningful  and  re- 


86 

Saturday,  April  5 

warding  to  girls.  Let  their  social  ac- 
tivity be  just  part  of  their  lives  during 
these  adolescent  years. 

The  third  suggestion  I  have  to  make 
is  this:  You  bishops,  teachers  and  lead- 
ers do  not  know  how  much  fathers  need 
you.  An  adolescent  boy  is  seeking  to 
become  an  adult  and  to  be  independent, 
and  he  is  seeking  the  companionship 
of  those  his  own  age.  Many  a  won- 
derful boy,  unconsciously,  has  to  al- 
most rebel  against  his  father  during 
these  middle  teens  in  order  to  feel  him- 
self a  man  and  to  be  independent.  But 
this  boy  still  needs  friendship  and  com- 
panionship of  men,  of  adults.  He  does 
not  have  the  same  feelings  of  rebellion 
toward  you  men  that  he  would  feel, 
perhaps  unconsciously,  toward  his 
rather.  Let  me  illustrate: 

The  other  night,  at  a  wedding  recep- 
tion a  lovely  girl  of  fine  parents  in  our 
community  was  the  bride,  married  in  the 
temple.  As  her  Mutual  Improvement 
Association  teacher  came  through  the 
line,  the  bride  threw  her  arms  around 
her  teacher  and  said  "Oh,  thank  you 
for  helping  me  to  have  this  experience 
today.  You  did  so  much  for  me."  Here 
is  a  girl  with  a  wonderful  mother,  but 
she  needed  also  the  help  of  this  extra 
person  to  keep  her  ideals  and  goals  high; 
to  give  her  strength  during  these  criti- 
cal years. 

I  plead  with  you,  brethren,  and  with 
myself,  that  we  not  think  of  our  young 
men  in  terms  of  numbers  or  statistics, 
that  we  do  not  think  of  our  work  in 
terms  of  activities  or  even  in  terms  of 
groups;  but  that  we  think  of  these  young 
men  individually  and  think  only  of  the 
nearness  that  we  have  to  them,  of  our 
understanding  and  our  love  for  them. 
If  we  can  stay  close  to  them,  then  we 
can  talk  to  them  about  these  personal 
things. 

My  fourth  suggestion  concerns  itself 
with  this  problem  of  dancing  all  evening 
with  the  same  girl  and  of  going  steady 
so  young.  Sometimes  we  can  use  young 
people  to  help  us  help  other  young 
people.    Let  me  give  an  illustration: 

Down  at  the  Institute  of  Religion  in 
Tucson,  Arizona,  20  years  ago,  we  had 
40  boys  and  45  girls  who  came  to  Mu- 
tual. The  boys  were  prone  to  dance 
after  Mutual  with  the  same  girls  each 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

night.  Four  or  five  girls  sat  on  the 
side  lines. 

One  day  I  said  to  a  returned  mission- 
ary, who  was  professing  his  great  faith 
in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  "Do  you 
love  your  fellow  men?" 

He  said,  "I  do." 

"Does  that  include  your  fellow  sis- 
ters, too?" 

He  said,  "Of  course." 

I  said,  "I  doubt  that.  Every  Tues- 
day night  you  find  a  little  girl  here 
and  dance  with  her  for  a  half  hour. 
You  are  not  concerned  with  what  other 
girls  are  doing.  Why  don't  you  find  an- 
other returned  missionary  and  you  two 
see  to  it  that  every  girl  here  has  at  least 
two  dances  every  Tuesday  night?" 

He  said,  "I  will.  I  had  never  thought 
of  applying  the  Gospel  to  my  social 
life  before." 

Well,  these  two  young  men  soon 
had  those  girls  happy  and  everybody 
dancing.    It  worked  beautifully. 

I  believe  you  should  speak  to  a  group 
of  the  finest,  most  popular  young  lead- 
ers of  your  wards,  of  your  MlA  groups, 
about  this  problem  of  dancing  all  night 
with  the  same  girl.  They  do  not  like 
to  do  it.  They  do  it  because  it  is  the 
socially  acceptable  thing  to  do.  They 
are  afraid,  as  individuals,  to  break  down 
the  custom.  If  you  put  the  problem  to 
them,  brethren,  and  suggest  that  a  few 
of  them  trade  partners  and  then  re- 
mind them  of  it  once  a  month  and 
watch  it,  I  believe  it  would  work. 

I  think  we  need  to  use  our  imagina- 
tions and  have  meaningful  associations 
between  our  young  men  and  young 
women  other  than  dancing.  Try  a 
"work  party"  sometime  where  you  have 
M  Men  and  Gleaners,  broken  into  com- 
mittees, helping  the  widows  of  the 
ward — serving  with  their  hands  and 
then  coming  together  afterward  for  an 
old-fashioned  supper,  for  singing,  for 
prayer.  It  gives  young  people  a  chance 
to  know  each  other  in  a  marriage-like 
way  and  tends  to  break  up  narrow  ro- 
mantic relationships  among  them. 

My  last  thought  is  this:  Try  an  in- 
direct approach.  A  man  does  not  over- 
come the  habit  of  drinking  by  talking 
about  drinking  or  thinking  about  drink- 
ing. A  person  does  not  avoid  unchas- 
tity  by  fighting  himself.    There  is  only 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


87 


one  way  to  rise  above  our  selfish,  nar- 
row interests.  That  is  the  way  that  has 
been  pointed  out  to  us  repeatedly  by 
the  General  Authorities. 

I  heard  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  say,  10 
years  ago,  and  again  at  our  seminary 
convention  two  months  ago,  "I  don't 
care  much  what  you  teachers  do,  if 
you  will  only  create  a  love  for  God  in 
the  hearts  of  these  young  people  you 
teach."  I  believe  that  this  is  very  sound 
advice.  If  we  could  teach  a  boy  to 
love  God,  really  love  God  with  all  his 
heart,  other  things  would  fall  into 
their  places.  If  we  could  teach  a  boy  to 
be  a  true  disciple  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  other  things  would  fall  in  their 
proper  places.  If  we  could  just  teach 
a  boy  to  have  respect  for  every  other 
human  being,  these  courtship  problems 
would  fall  into  their  proper  places.  If 
we  could  teach  a  boy  to  have  self- 
respect,  his  behavior  would  be  good 
and  ideal. 

A  Presbyterian  boy,  a  medical  stu- 
dent, said  to  me  in  a  personal  conver- 
sation, "Some  of  the  Mormon  boys  at 


the  'dorm'  smoke  and  drink.  They  are 
good  fellows,  too."  Then  he  said,  "I 
don't  smoke  and  drink." 

I  said,  "Why  not?" 

He  said,  "I  used  to  be  tempted,  but 
now  I  have  found  a  kind  of  spiritual 
feeling  for  life  that  is  based  on  my  faith 
in  God.  And  smoking  and  drinking 
just  don't  seem  to  fit  into  that  feeling 
which  I  have." 

Can  we,  fellow  workers,  do  as  well 
by  our  young  people? 

My  young  brethren,  I  pray  with  all 
my  heart  that  you  will  use  wisdom  in 
your  youth  and  lay  the  foundations  for 
happiness  in  marriage,  by  building 
friendships,  by  being  chaste. 

We  older  men — we  teachers  and 
leaders — God  help  us  to  help  them  to 
this  end,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  next  presentation  this  evening 
will  be  by  Brother  Mark  E.  Petersen. 
We  will  let  him  carry  it  to  us. 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


You  are  familiar  with  the  posters 
and  the  cards  which  we  are  distributing 
under  the  general  caption,  "Be  Honest 
With  Yourself."  These  posters,  as  you 
recall,  are  distributed  every  other  month. 
It  is  now  our  plan  to  augment  this 
program  with  the  addition  of  some 
character  building  and  faith  promoting 
statements  from  people  prominent  in 
various  walks  of  life.  These  statements 
will  be  placed  upon  phonograph  rec- 
ords which  may  be  played  in  your 
wards  and  stakes  to  various  groups  of 
young  people  and  to  older  ones  as  well 
if  that  is  desired. 

From  the  sports  world  we  are  ob- 
taining statements  from  such  men  as 
Glen  Cunningham,  the  champion  miler, 
Bob  Richards,  Olympic  pole  vaulting 
champion,  and  Gene  Fullmer,  and 
others.  From  the  world  of  business 
we  have  such  persons  as  Cecil  B. 
deMille,  movie  producer,  Merlo  J.  Pusey, 
Associate  Editor  of  the  Washington 
Post,  a  Pulitzer  Prize  winner,  and  we 


are  now  in  correspondence  with  J. 
Edgar  Hoover  of  the  F.B.I,  about  the 
use  of  some  of  his  material. 

These  statements  are  recordings  being 
made  by  these  men  themselves.  Their 
own  voices  will  be  heard,  and  they  can 
have  a  great  influence  upon  the  mem- 
bership of  the  Church  for  good. 

It  is  our  plan  to  send  a  recording  to 
each  stake  in  the  month  following  the 
distribution  of  the  posters.  For  in- 
stance, this  month  you  will  receive  a 
poster;  next  month  you  will  have  a 
record.  In  this  way  there  will  be  six 
posters  a  year  and  six  recordings  a  year. 
For  the  most  part  we  will  place  two 
recordings  on  every  record,  one  on 
each  side,  so  that  actually  you  may  re- 
ceive only  three  records  a  year,  each 
with  two  recordings,  one  on  each  side, 
to  give  you  the  six  playings. 

It  is  our  plan  to  deliver  the  records 
to  stake  presidents  who  in  turn  will 
direct  the  manner  of  their  distribution 
to   Priesthood    and   auxiliary  groups 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  5 

within  their  own  stake.  A  letter  con- 
taining suggestions  for  their  use  will 
be  mailed  out  with  the  first  record,  and 
we  are  ready  to  mail  the  first  record 
immediately. 

In  order  to  defray  the  expense  in- 
volved, a  very  slight  handling  charge 
will  be  made  to  the  stakes. 

So  that  you  may  have  a  preview  of 
what  these  records  will  provide,  we  will 
now  play  for  you  short  excerpts  from 
three  of  them.  The  first  voice  you 
will  hear  will  be  that  of  Gene  Fullmer, 
former  middleweight  boxing  champion 
of  the  world;  the  second  will  be  Bob 
Richards,  Olympic  star;  and  the  third 
will  be  that  of  Cecil  B.  deMille,  motion 
picture  producer. 


Second  Day 

(The  records  mentioned  by  Elder 
Petersen  were  then  played  on  a  record 
player  so  that  all  present  and  those 
listening  in  might  hear  them.) 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  congregation  will  now  sing,  "Do 
What  is  Right,"  Richard  P.  Condie 
leading. 

Singing  by  the  congregation,  "Do 
What  Is  Right." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  now  speak  to  us. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  brethren,  and  as  the  phrase  in 
Holy  Writ  goes,  from  Dan  to  Beer- 
sheba,  north,  south,  east,  west: 

President  McKay,  I  can  envision 
within  the  reasonable  future  that  we 
shall  broadcast  throughout  the  civilized 
world,  a  broadcast  in  which  by  means 
of  the  proper  interpreting  organization 
here  in  Salt  Lake  City,  perhaps  in  this 
building,  the  French  will  hear  what  we 
say  in  French,  the  German  in  German, 
the  Spanish  speaking  people  in  Spanish, 
and  so  on  throughout  the  whole  earth. 

It  is  a  great,  a  great  triumph  which 
we  already  have. 

I  had  intended  to  say  a  little  some- 
thing tonight  more  by  way  of  suggestion 
than  anything  else.  I  would  like  to 
recommend  that  you  people  read  the 
Prophet's  translation  of  the  24th  Chap- 
ter of  Matthew.  I  am  not  acting  as  a 
prophet  or  a  seer,  I  am  only  asking  that 
you  read  that  chapter.  We  have  heard 
during  this  Conference  certain  passages 
of  scripture  repeatedly  referred  to.  The 
Prayer,  so-called,  of  the  Great  High 
Priest: 

"And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they 
might  know  thee  the  only  true  God, 
and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  hast 
sent."  (John  17:3) 

We  have  heard  the  statement  made 
by  Peter  to  the  Sanhedrin  responsive 


to  their  question,  by  whom  did  he  do 
these  things: 

"By  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Nazareth,  whom  ye  crucified  ...  for 
there  is  none  other  name  under  heaven 
given  among  men,  whereby  we  must 
be  saved."  (Acts  4:10-12) 

We  have  heard  the  scripture  where 
Thomas  was  told  by  the  Savior,  re- 
sponsive to  his  question,  that  no  one 
could  come  to  the  Father,  save  through 
him.  (John  14:4-6) 

And  I  have  in  mind  and  will  read  to 
you,  what  was  said  by  Alma  to  his 
son  Shiblon: 

"And  now,  my  son,  I  have  told  you 
this  that  ye  may  learn  wisdom,  that  ye 
may  learn  of  me  that  there  is  no  other 
way  or  means  whereby  man  can  be 
saved,  only  in  and  through  Christ. 
Behold,  he  is  the  life  and  the  light  of 
the  world.  Behold,  he  is  the  word  of 
truth  and  righteousness."  (Alma  38:9) 

And  then  I  want  to  read  to  you  or 
call  your  attention  to  those  various 
statements  by  Paul  in  which  he  com- 
pares the  wisdom  of  men  and  the  wis- 
dom of  God,  pointing  out  how  great 
God's  wisdom  is  and  how  slight  is  the 
wisdom  of  man.  Then  I  want  to  read 
to  you  from  the  sermon  which  the 
Savior  made  to  the  multitude  after  he 
had  met  and  answered  the  visitors  from 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


89 


John,  the  sermon  in  which  he  paid  that 
great  tribute  to  John  and  turning  to 
the  multitude  he  said: 

"Come  unto  me,  all  ye  that  labour 
and  are  heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give 
you  rest. 

"Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn 
of  me;  for  I  am  meek  and  lowly  in 
heart:  and  ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your 
souls. 

"For  my  yoke  is  easy,  and  my  burden 
is  light." 

Christ  is  the  only  one  through  whom, 
through  his  teachings  and  his  work 
and  his  sacrifice  and  his  atonement,  by 
which  we  can  reach  the  divine  destiny 
which  has  been  declared  for  us.  We 
are  living  in  perilous  times.  That  is 
trite.  Man  has  discovered  and  is  trying 
to  learn  how  to  use  some  of  the  great 
forces  that  evidently  were  operative  at 
the  time  of  the  creation  of  the  universe. 
We  know  nothing  about  them,  we  play 
with  them  as  a  child  plays  with  the 
live  end  of  a  high  voltage  transmission 
wire.  We  know  not  how  to  control 
them  nor  what  they  will  do.  We  are 
equally  challenged  in  all  walks  of  life, 
economic,  financial,  social,  religious, 
with  new  theories,  new  problems,  new 


solutions.  We  live  in  a  maze  of  un- 
known, untried  ideas  and  concepts. 

Be  not  dismayed.  Remember  what  I 
have  read  to  you  and  referred  you  to. 
Christ  is  our  answer.  Christ  is  our 
salvation.  "Let  not  your  heart  be 
troubled,  neither  let  it  be  afraid." 
(John  14:27)  And  remember,  you  who 
may  be  influenced  by  discoveries  of  sci- 
ence today,  that  the  discoveries  of 
science  in  my  day  have  been  thrown 
away  and  given  up  and  in  so  far  as 
present  discoveries  are  not  in  accord 
with  truth,  they  will  be  thrown  away 
and  discarded.  "Let  not  your  heart  be 
troubled,  neither  let  it  be  afraid."  "For 
my  yoke  is  easy,  and  my  burden  is 
light." 

Brethren,  keep  your  eye  on  the  beam, 
the  Word  of  God,  and  he  will  bless 
you. 

May  that  blessing  come  to  all  of  us, 
I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  now  address  us. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


I  was  privileged  to  look  over  the 
annual  report  of  the  General  Relief 
Society  Board  the  other  day,  and  I 
noted  this  conspicuous  record  of  serv- 
ice. In  the  year  1957  the  Relief  So- 
ciety teachers  made  3,125,813  Family 
Visits  by  the  Visiting  Teachers,  an  in- 
crease of  184,383  over  the  previous  year. 
And  in  the  category  of  what  is  called 
"compassionate  service"  the  record 
shows  275,469  visits  of  Relief  Society 
members  to  the  homes  of  the  sick  and 
the  homebound — an  increase  of  19,750 
over  the  previous  year. 

I  thought  what  a  challenge  to  the 
brethren  of  the  Priesthood  of  this 
Church  I  I  regard  the  Priesthood  of  the 
Church  of  God  as  being  the  truest — I 
do  not  know  numbers — if  not  the  great- 
est of  all  the  brotherhoods  in  this  world. 
It  is  a  great  fraternity  made  up  of  men 
who  have  been  initiated,  not  by  secret 
oaths  nor  by  strange  initiatory  ordi- 


nances, but  by  receiving  the  ordination 
of  the  power  bestowed  by  messengers 
of  our  Heavenly  Father  upon  his  serv- 
ants with  the  restoration  of  the  Holy 
Gospel. 

I  am  sure  that  this  fraternity  contem- 
plates affectionate  feeling  one  for  an- 
other, and  mutual  helpfulness.  There 
have  been  presented  to  us  tonight  op- 
portunities for  helping,  advising,  coun- 
seling, safeguarding,  the  welfare  of  the 
younger  members  of  the  Priesthood  as 
well  as  the  older.  Why  ought  we  not 
to  perform  a  service  comparable  to  that 
of  our  sisters  and  go  to  see  those  who 
are  in  some  form  of  distress,  who  need 
us,  even  without  appointment  as  fel- 
low members  of  this  great  fraternity? 

I  do  not  know  that  you  noticed  in 
our  statistical  information  last  night 
that  there  were  approximately  3000  con- 
verts, or  ten  percent  of  all  our  con- 
verts, which  were  not  made  by  the 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  5 

missionaries  serving  under  appointment 
either  in  the  stakes  or  in  the  regular 
missions.  Nearly  ten  percent  of  the 
converts  were  made  by  friends,  neigh- 
bors and  families  who  brought  the  mes- 
sage of  life  and  truth  to  their  close 
friends. 

May  we  not,  as  members  of  the 
Priesthood,  without  appointment,  con- 
sider our  obligations  to  our  neighbors 


Second  Day 

and  our  friends,  and  do  them  the  in- 
comparable blessed  service  of  taking 
the  truth  to  them  and  teaching  them 
the  way  of  life? 

The  Lord  bless  us  that  we  may  truly 
be  a  brotherhood,  and  that  our  unity, 
our  love,  and  our  concern  for  each 
other  shall  characterize  us  as  servants 
of  our  Lord,  Jesus  Christ,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


I  hold  in  my  hand  the  number  of 
the  men  of  the  Priesthood  in  the  quo- 
rums of  this  fraternity  to  which  Presi- 
dent Richards  has  referred,  Melchize- 
dek  and  Aaronic:  In  round  numbers,  in 
the  Melchizedek  quorums — High  Priests, 
Seventies,  Elders — High  Priests,  41,552; 
Seventies,  20,649;  Elders,  120,230— ap- 
proximately 190,000  men;  150,000 
Aaronic  Priesthood  members. 

As  I  have  listened  to  the  wonderful 
messages  given  tonight,  there  came  to 
my  mind  the  words  of  the  Savior: 

".  .  .  whosoever  heareth  these  sayings 
of  mine,  and  doeth  them,  I  will  liken 
him  unto  a  wise  man,  which  built  his 
house  upon  a  rock; 

"And  the  rain  descended,  and  the 
floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and 
beat  upon  that  house;  and  it  fell  not: 
for  it  was  founded  upon  a  rock. 

"And  every  one  that  heareth  these 
sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them  not, 
shall  be  likened  unto  a  foolish  man, 
which  built  his  house  upon  the  sand: 

"And  the  rain  descended,  and  the 
floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and 
beat  upon  that  house;  and  it  fell:  and 
great  was  the  fall  of  it."  (Matt.  7:24-27.) 

Over  three  hundred  thousand  men 
holding  the  Priesthood,  carrying  the 
responsibility  of  exemplars  as  well  as 
proclaimers.  Exemplars!  If  we  could 
get  but  half  of  these  men  to  apply  in 
their  lives  every  practical  suggestion 
given  tonight  what  a  mighty  influence 
for  good  would  be  accomplished!  May 
I  take,  for  example,  some  suggestions 
from  the  theme  of  Brother  Lowell 
Bennion? 

Young  people,  young  girls  in  high 
school,  going  daily  in  courtship  with 
young  boys  of  their  age,  of  the  girls' 
age,  in  their  early  'teens,  depriving 


themselves  of  becoming  better  ac- 
quainted with  other  companions;  and 
in  that  daily  courtship  in  their  early 
age,  becoming  so  intimate  as  to  arouse 
their  passions  for  an  hour's  pleasure, 
bringing  misery  upon  themselves 
through  life.  And  that  is  not  imagina- 
tion! You  men  in  the  Presidencies  of 
Stakes  and  Bishoprics  of  Wards,  and 
you  fathers  and  mothers  of  some  of 
them,  know  that  that  is  not  imagination. 

What  practical  suggestions  Brother 
Bennion  has  given  us  in  regard  to  this 
early  association!  The  Mutuals  are 
trying  to  work  out  Saturday  night 
dances  to  entertain  these  young  people. 
They  merit  entertainment,  and  we  must 
furnish  it  for  them.  In  our  own  wards, 
young  men  and  young  women  come  to 
those  dances,  and  the  young  man  and 
his  girl  spend  the  entire  time  they  are 
there  in  that  social  in  each  other's  com- 
pany, dancing  together  hour  after  hour. 

Years  ago  we  did  not  use  to  do  that. 
Now,  they  say,  "Well,  I  pay  my  ticket; 
I  bring  my  girl,  and  I  have  the  right 
to  dance  with  her."  I  wonder  if  we 
can  do  something,  Bishops,  to  help  our 
Mutuals  make  more  effective  their  plans 
to  have  all  the  young  people  become 
well  acquainted  with  one  another  as 
suggested  by  Brother  Bennion.  That 
is  just  one  means. 

We  have  young  people  who  go  out 
in  society,  our  young  boys  and  girls; 
they  are  not  quite  strong  enough  to 
say  no  when  the  cigarette  and  wine 
glass  are  passed  around.  They  look 
upon  father  and  mother  and  some  of 
us  teachers  as  old-fashioned.  They  er- 
roneously think  that  it  is  all  right  to 
participate  in  the  "wine  cup"  in  the 
social  ethics  of  the  crowd,  out  in  the 
canyon  and  other  places.    Some  of  our 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


91 


boys  and  girls  are  so  eager  to  be  the 
"hale  fellow,  well  met"  that  they  go  to 
an  extreme,  and  disappoint,  not  to  say 
disgust,  visitors  from  outside  who  look 
upon  the  Mormon  boys  and  girls  as 
abstainers  from  these  things. 

Can  we  go  from  this  great  Priesthood 
Meeting  with  just  a  little  more  deter- 
mination to  put  into  effect  the  sugges- 
tions given  by  Brother  Bennion  at  the 
request  of  the  Authorities?  They  were 
excellent  and  you  are  now  expected  to 
carry  out  those  suggestions.  "Whoso- 
ever heareth  these  sayings  of  mine,  and 
doeth  them,  I  will  liken  him  unto  a 
wise  man.  .  .  ." 

I  think  this  has  been  a  wonderful 
meeting.  We  shall  get  the  number 
who  are  in  attendance  later.  But  now 
the  question  is,  what  shall  we  do  about 
it?  Two  hundred  and  fifty  thousand 
members  in  this  fraternity.  Are  we 
equal  to  holding  up  the  standards? 
Take  just  the  number  we  have  assem- 
bled here  tonight — let  us  hold  to  the 
ideals  given.  We  know  they  are  right. 
There  are  many,  for  example,  who  be- 
come addicted  to  tobacco.  We  know  it 
is  wrong.  Those  who  use  it  know  it 
is  wrong  and  injurious.  Those  who  ad- 
vertise it  know  it  is  wrong,  and  we  sit 
in  our  homes  and  hear  of  the  safety 
of  one  kind  of  cigarette  over  another, 
indicating  that  those  who  manufacture 
those  cigarettes  know  they  are  injurious, 
and  yet  we  go  on  violating  the  Word 
of  God  who  a  hundred  years  or  more 
ago  said,  "tobacco  ...  is  not  good  for 
man." 

Many  who  are  listening  to  us  to- 
night use  it.  You  will  not  be  excom- 
municated for  using  it,  but  the  use  of 
tobacco  is  not  good.  It  is  so  stated  in 
the  Word  of  Wisdom,  given  by  revela- 
tion to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Do 
not  you  think  that  it  is  time,  brethren, 
just  man  to  man,  that  we  unite  now 
in  this  brotherhood  of  Christ,  this 
great,  this  most  sacred  fraternity  in  all 
the  world,  to  stand  by  one  another, 
helping  one  another  and  set  an  example 
to  the  world,  if  only  from  a  social 
standpoint?  All  within  the  hearing  of 
our  voices  tonight,  and  all  who  belong 
to  the  Priesthood  quorums  should  real- 
ize in  all  earnestness  that  here  are  four 
hundred  thousand  men  in  the  world 


who  hold  the  Priesthood,  who  should 
be  exemplary  as  fathers,  as  sons,  as 
brothers,  and  each  one  has  the  re- 
sponsibility of  being  an  exemplar.  What 
an  influence  throughout  this  world!  Let 
us  decide  to  do  it.  We  will  not  con- 
demn you,  brother  by  our  side,  who 
does  not  do  it;  you  have  your  free 
agency.  We  extend  the  hand  of  fellow- 
ship to  you,  and  we  shall  help  you. 
What  an  influence  for  good  if  we  could 
have  a  hundred,  two  hundred,  three 
hundred  thousand  men  who  say,  "We 
are  going  to  stand  for  the  principles  of 
our  group!"    We  can  do  it! 

"And  every  one  that  heareth  these 
sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them  not, 
shall  be  likened  unto  a  foolish  man, 
which  built  his  house  upon  the  sand: 

"And  the  rain  descended,  and  the 
floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and 
beat  upon  that  house;  and  it  fell:  and 
great  was  the  fall  of  it." 

Brethren,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ, 
as  you  know  and  I  know,  is  the  might- 
iest force  in  the  world,  but  you  and 
your  companions  constitute  the  source 
of  that  force.  The  Lord  cannot  use 
his  quorums  without  you;  and  every 
one  has  the  responsibility  of  doing  his 
best  to  maintain  the  standards  of  life. 

And  our  boys  and  girls  in  high 
schools,  in  universities,  junior  col- 
leges, need  our  help.  Their  parents 
need  our  help.  Let  us  try  to  follow 
the  suggestions  given  tonight  to  aid 
them  when  they  go  to  their  socials. 

It  is  time  now  to  put  forth  extra 
effort  to  maintain  the  standards  of 
right,  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  to  pay 
attention  as  we  have  never  done  be- 
fore to  the  efforts  sent  out  by  our 
Church  Committee  under  the  caption, 
"Be  Honest  With  Yourself."  These  rec- 
ords that  will  be  sent  out,  will  you 
please  use,  make  them  effective  in  di- 
recting the  boys  and  girls  in  the  right 
way. 

We  are  facing  conditions  which  de- 
mand the  highest  intelligence,  the  deep- 
est spirituality,  the  greatest  effort  that 
the  Priesthood  of  God  can  possibly 
put  forth. 

Tonight  in  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
we  have  7,478  men  of  the  Priesthood; 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt 
Hall  and  on  the  grounds,  3,600;  in  the 


92 

Saturday,  April  5 

one  hundred  and  twenty-eight  groups 
that  have  reported  in,  34,076;  a  total 
of  45,154  men  holding  the  Priesthood. 
President  Clark  was  right  when  he  said 
that  the  time  will  come  when  we  shall 
be  able  to  reach  every  part  of  the 
world.  This  is  the  largest  attendance 
ever  assembled  in  the  Church.  Last 
year  we  had  37,180;  an  increase  this 
year  of  7,970  people  in  Priesthood  meet- 
ing. 

With  all  my  heart  I  say,  God  bless 
you. 

Thank  you,  brethren,  who  have  taken 
part  tonight,  Brother  Lowell  Bennion, 
Brother  Mark  Petersen,  and  those  who 
are  associated  with  him  and  those  who 
are  sending  out  these  standards  of 
action,  appealing  to  our  young  folks  in 
a  way  which  we  hope  will  be  more  im- 
pressive than  just  sending  printed 
matter  to  them. 

I  conclude,  that  ".  .  .  whosoever  hear- 
eth  these  sayings  of  mine,"  said  the 
Savior,  "and  doeth  them,  I  will  liken 
him  unto  a  wise  man,  which  built  his 
house  upon  a  rock; 

"And  the  rain  descended,  and  the 
floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and 
beat  upon  that  house;  and  it  fell  not: 
for  it  was  founded  upon  a  rock." 

I  like  to  think  in  that  connection  that 
here  are  several  hundred  thousand  mar- 
ried men  in  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood, 
not  even  counting  some  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood,  several  hundred  thousand 
men,  every  one  of  whom  should  be 
an  exemplary  husband.  If  that  one 
thing  were  true,  what  an  example  to 
the  civilized  world!  And  that  is  not 
imagination,  it  really  should  be — Sev- 
eral hundred  thousand  men,  fathers, 
to  whom  every  son  should  be  respectful 
and  obedient,  especially  those  sons  who 
hold  that  Priesthood.  Several  hundred 
thousand  men,  fathers,  to  whom  their 
daughters  should  be  respectful,  whose 
wives  should  be  cooperative  with  them; 
no  quarreling  in  the  home — homes  in 
which  you  would  never  hear  the  name 
of  God  taken  in  vain.  And  it  should 
not  be.  Several  hundred  thousand 
homes  in  which  prayers  are  offered, 
children  participating,  the  blessing 
asked  on  the  food.  Suppose  that  were 
published  as  a  fact,  as  it  should  be, 
what    an    example    to   the  civilized 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

world  I  We  need  not  worry  about  go- 
ing out  into  space,  we  can  bring  evolu- 
tions right  here  in  our  own  towns,  in 
our  own  cities,  and  in  our  own  com- 
munities. Is  this  saying  too  much,  fel- 
low members  of  Priesthood  quorums?  I 
can  feel  your  spirit;  that  is  just  how 
you  feel.  You  feel  mine.  We  feel  our 
neighbor's. 

Let  us  realize  that  we  are  members 
of  the  greatest  fraternity,  the  greatest 
brotherhood — the  brotherhod  of  Christ 
— in  all  the  world,  and  do  our  very 
best  each  day — all  day — to  maintain 
the  standards  of  these  quorums,  I  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  will  sing,  "I  Need  Thee  Every 
Hour,"  conducted  by  Richard  P.  Con- 
die,  after  which  Elder  Donovan  H. 
Van  Dam,  formerly  president  of  the 
Netherlands  Mission,  will  offer  the 
closing  prayer.  The  session  at  ten 
o'clock  Sunday  morning,  tomorrow 
morning,  will  be  broadcast  as  a  public 
service  over  television  and  radio  sta- 
tions throughout  the  West.  The  Tab- 
ernacle Choir  Broadcast  will  be  from 
9:30  to  10:00  A.M.  Those  desiring  to 
attend  the  Tabernacle  Choir  Broad- 
cast must  be  in  their  seats  at  9:15  A.M. 
It  is  requested  that  the  audience  during 
the  broadcast  refrain  from  making  even 
any  slight  disturbance  such  as  coughing. 
Large  crowds  will  undoubtedly  be 
waiting  outside  the  closed  doors,  and 
when  opened  there  is  usually  a  rush 
by  those  outside  to  get  good  seats.  Be 
courteous,  respectful.  At  7:30  o'clock 
tomorrow  morning,  Elder  Harold  B. 
Lee  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will 
be  the  speaker  on  the  Columbia  Broad- 
casting System's  "Church-of-the-Air" 
program.  The  music  for  this  service 
will  be  furnished  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  under  the  direction  of  Brother 
Condie. 

As  thousands  leave  this  great  Priest- 
hood Meeting  tonight,  let  us  keep  in 
mind  the  admonition  that  is  constantly 
being  given  us  to  drive  carefully.  Let 
us  have  courtesy  in  the  city  and  on  the 
highways. 

The  Men's  Chorus  will  now  sing,  "I 
Need  Thee  Every  Hour,"  and  Brother 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


93 


Van  Dam  will  offer  the  benediction. 
This  Conference  will  then  be  ad- 
journed until  ten  o'clock  tomorrow 
morning. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Male  Chorus 
sang  the  hymn,  "I  Need  Thee  Every 
Hour." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Brother  Condie  and  members  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus,  thank 


you  for  this  inspirational  singing.  We 
would  like  to  say  more,  all  that  could 
be  said,  to  express  our  appreciation  for 
your  coming  out  tonight  and  singing 
to  us. 

President  Donovan  H.  Van  Dam  will 
now  offer  the  benediction. 


Elder  Donovan  H.  Van  Dam,  formerly 
president  of  the  Netherlands  Mission, 
offered  the  closing  prayer. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


(For  a  full  report  of  the  Church  of 
the  Air  and  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
Organ  broadcasts  see  pages  133-139.) 

The  regular  Conference  service  con- 
vened promptly  at  10  a.m.,  following  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast, 
with  President  David  O.  McKay  presid- 
ing and  conducting  the  services. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the 
music  for  this  session,  Richard  P.  Con- 
die  conducting,  and  Alexander  Schreiner 
at  the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  Richard  P.  Condie,  with 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ,  will 
open  these  services  by  singing,  "Mine 
Eyes  Have  Seen  the  Glory  of  the 
Coming  of  the  Lord."  The  opening 
prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder  William 


Roscoe  Cahoon,  president  of  the  Poca- 
tello  Stake. 


Singing  by  the  Choir,  "Mine  Eyes 
Have  Seen  the  Glory  of  the  Coming  of 
the  Lord." 

President  William  Roscoe  Cahoon  of 
the  Pocatello  Stake  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing, 
"Easter  Morning,"  with  Richard  P. 
Condie  conducting.  Following  the  sing- 
ing President  Stephen  L  Richards  will 
address  us. 


Singing  by  the  Choir, 
mg. 


'Easter  Morn- 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters  and 
friends  listening  to  the  proceedings  of 
our  conference,  I  extend  to  all  of  you 
my  warmest  greetings  and  my  sincere 
and  earnest  solicitude  for  your  happi- 
ness and  well-being.  I  rejoice  with  you 
on  this  Easter  Sunday  in  the  opportu- 
nity we  all  have  to  pay  homage  to  our 
Savior  and  to  give  to  him  our  thanks- 
giving and  veneration  for  the  incom- 
parable gift  of  eternal  life  which  he 


brought  to  all  mankind.  We  remind 
ourselves  on  this  day  that  we  are  charged 
with  the  transcendent  responsibility  of 
building  and  maintaining  his  kingdom 
in  the  earth.  It  is  in  the  hope  that  I 
may  add  a  word  of  contribution  to  that 
greatest  of  all  causes  that  I  bring  to  you 
a  somewhat  practical  suggestion  on  this 
sacred  day.  Termites  are  permeating 
the  foundation  of  the  kingdom — the 
homes  of  the  people — even  more  de- 


94 

Sunday,  April  6 

structive  and  elusive  than  those  serai- 
microscopic  little  animals  that  break 
down  our  walls.  Corrective  measures 
are  imperative. 

I  have  chosen  to  make  some  com- 
ment on  a  theme  which  I  earnestly  hope 
may  not  prove  to  be  too  provocative, 
and  certainly  not  offensive,  to  our  sis- 
ters and  to  other  women  who  may 
listen.  I  lift  my  text,  with  full  ac- 
knowledgment, from  an  article  appear- 
ing in  This  Week  Magazine  of  some 
months  ago,  and  recently  reprinted  in 
the  Reader's  Digest,  written  by  Judge 
Samuel  S.  Leibowitz,  senior  judge  of 
Brooklyn's  highest  criminal  court.  The 
article  is  entitled:  "Nine  Words  That 
Can  Stop  Juvenile  Delinquency,"  and 
the  nine  words  used  by  the  Judge  are 
these:  "Put  Father  Back  at  the  Head 
of  the  Family." 

It  is  likely  that  many  of  our  audience 
have  read  this  challenging  article,  and 
there  is  no  time  at  my  disposal  to  do 
more  than  to  set  before  you  a  few  sta- 
tistical items  and  a  few  conclusions 
drawn  by  this  eminent  judge  who  has 
spent  21  years  of  his  life  as  a  criminal 
lawyer  and  16  years  as  a  judge  in  the 
criminal  court,  with  long  years  of  study 
and  observation  on  causes  of  teen-age 
crime.  He  went  to  Europe  and  dis- 
covered from  official  reports  that  the 
percentage  of  crimes  committed  in  each 
of  the  following  countries  by  offenders 
18  years  of  age  or  under  was  as  follows: 

In  Italy:  2  percent  of  sex  crimes,  and 
Y2  of  1  percent  of  homicides. 

In  France:  7  percent  of  sex  crimes, 
with  8  percent  of  homicides. 

In  Belgium:  12  percent  of  sex  crimes, 
with  1  percent  of  homicides. 

In  Germany:  15  percent  of  sex  crimes, 
with  2  percent  of  homicides. 

In  Britain:  16  percent  of  sex  crimes, 
and  1  percent  of  homicides. 

And — here  is  the  tragedy — in  the 
United  States  35  percent  of  all  sex  crimes 
are  committed  by  offenders  under  18, 
and  12  percent  of  all  murders  are  com- 
mitted by  offenders  under  18.  Teen-age 
offenders  in  the  United  States  ex- 
ceeded those  of  other  countries  reported, 
ranging  from  1800  percent  to  100  per- 
cent. The  judge  reached  the  conclusion 
that  there  must  be  some  principal  factor 
in  this  great  disparity  so  unfavorable 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

to  our  own  country,  and  he  discovered, 
as  perhaps  might  well  have  been  as- 
sumed, that  the  primary  reason  for  the 
reduced  percentages  of  juvenile  de- 
linquency in  the  European  countries  was 
respect  for  authority,  and  that  the  prin- 
cipal contribution  to  that  respect,  which 
might  not  have  been  so  readily  assumed, 
was  respect  for  authority  in  the  home, 
which,  as  he  points  out,  normally  re- 
poses in  the  father  as  head  of  the  fam- 
ily. 

These  conclusions  reached  by  this 
judicial  investigator  I  believe  would 
seem  more  sensational  and  surprising  to 
people  outside  of  the  Church  to  which 
we  have  the  honor  to  belong  than  to 
our  own  members.  For  generations  we 
as  a  Church  have  been  endeavoring  to 
do  just  what  the  judge  advocates — to 
put  and  keep  Father  at  the  head  of  the 
family,  and  with  all  our  might  we  have 
been  trying  to  make  him  fit  for  that 
high  and  heavy  responsibility. 

May  I  take  a  few  minutes  to  give  you 
our  concept  of  home,  fatherhood,  and 
motherhood?  Nothing  occupies  a  more 
unique  and  distinctive  and  important 
position  in  our  theology  and  understand- 
ing of  God's  purposes  for  his  children. 

We  define  a  home  as  being  a  divinely 
appointed  institution  established  on  the 
enduring  compact  of  a  good  man  and 
a  good  woman,  wherein  spiritual  chil- 
dren of  our  Eternal  Father  are  per- 
mitted to  receive  mortal  bodies  endowed 
with  eternal  intelligence,  these  children 
so  received  in  the  home  to  be  nurtured 
in  health  and  so  guided  in  the  ways  of 
living  by  loving  and  wise  parents  that 
they  may  be  conditioned  on  completion 
of  their  lives  to  return  to  the  presence 
of  the  Lord  whence  their  spirits  origi- 
nally came.  In  this  greatest  of  all  enter- 
prises the  man  and  the  woman  are 
partners — co-signers,  if  you  will,  of  the 
enduring  compact  which  binds  them 
together. 

In  this  eternal  compact,  however, 
there  is  a  feature  which  may  not  be 
understood  by  many  thousands  of  men 
and  women  who  enter  into  Christian 
marriage.  It  is  the  element  of  priest- 
hood. Two  things  have  been  revealed 
about  priesthood  and  marriage  which 
are  of  most  vital  importance.  First,  that 
no  marriage  which  is  to  endure  forever, 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


95 


so  that  in  essence  a  home  may  be  pro- 
jected into  eternity,  may  be  established 
without  the  authorization  and  sanction 
of  divinely  appointed  priesthood.  And 
secondly,  that  no  marriage  is  eligible 
for  the  solemnization  of  divinely  ap- 
pointed priesthood  without  the  man 
party  to  the  compact  having  first  re- 
ceived the  endowment  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood  himself. 

We  call  the  ordinance  of  marriage 
when  performed  not  only  for  time  but 
for  all  eternity  a  sealing — a  sealing  of 
a  good  woman  to  a  good  man  of  the 
priesthood,  with  the  express  understand- 
ing and  covenant  that  the  priesthood  of 
the  man,  if  he  shall  be  faithful  and  live 
worthy  to  enjoy  it,  shall  be  the  supreme 
authority  of  the  household,  and  no  good 
woman  of  our  faith  begrudges  her 
worthy  husband  of  the  priesthood  the 
respect  which  goes  with  his  high  calling. 
She  knows  that  to  build  him  up  in  the 
esteem  of  their  children,  and  thus  make 
him  conscious  of  the  responsibility  of 
leadership  is  the  surest  safeguard  she 
can  bring  to  her  family  in  a  world  of 
temptation.  The  women  of  the  Church 
rejoice  in  the  priesthood  of  their  hus- 
bands. They  know  that  that  priesthood 
is  not  expressed  in  autocratic  or  unright- 
eous dominion.  They  know  that  it  is 
a  divinely  given  power  to  be  exercised 
only  in  long-suffering  and  patience, 
kindness  and  mercy,  "reproving  betimes 
with  sharpness,  when  moved  upon  by 
the  Holy  Ghost;  and  then  showing  forth 
afterwards  an  increase  of  love  toward 
him"  who  hast  been  reproved.  (D  &  C 
121:43.)  They  know  that  that  priest- 
hood has  true  virtue  within  it — the 
power  to  bless,  the  power  to  heal,  the 
power  to  counsel,  to  make  peace  and 
harmony  prevail. 

Perhaps  the  saddest  of  all  our  women 
are  they  who  see  their  husbands  fall 
away  from  that  priesthood  with  which 
they  have  been  endowed.  They  are  the 
wives  who  are  filled  with  anxiety  for 
the  future  of  themselves  and  their  fami- 
lies. In  the  true  companionship  of  a 
husband  of  the  priesthood  a  good  woman 
may  pass  through  any  trouble  and  have 
comfort,  resignation,  and  peace.  But 
if  her  husband  fails  her  and  fails  his 
holy  calling,  it  is  hard  indeed  for  con- 
solation to  come  to  her.  She  grieves,  she 


prays,  she  pleads — sometimes  seemingly 
in  vain. 

You  husbands  of  the  priesthood  who 
have  been  neglectful  of  your  covenants, 
I  plead  with  you,  in  behalf  of  sorrow- 
ing wives  and  families,  to  relieve  the 
pain  you  are  causing  those  who  love 
you,  to  regain  manhood  and  strength 
and  be  worthy  to  assume  in  righteous- 
ness the  leadership  of  your  families. 
They  want  to  respect  you.  They  will 
if  you  will  let  them. 

I  think  I  have  spoken  for  the  great 
majority  of  our  wives  and  mothers. 
There  may  be,  however,  a  few  who  are 
not  helping  as  much  as  they  may  do  in 
the  maintenance  and  re-establishment 
of  respect  for  proper  authority  and 
leadership  in  the  home.  We  have  many 
brilliant  women.  I  have  admiration 
for  their  superior  accomplishments. 
They  are  continually  becoming  more 
influential  in  all  aspects  of  life  and 
living,  and  I  have  no  doubt  but  that 
their  contributions  will  be  of  lasting 
value.  If  any  of  these  brilliant  women 
is  a  mother,  I  give  it  as  my  firm  belief 
that  however  potent  she  may  be  in  mat- 
ters extraneous  to  the  home,  she  has  no 
higher,  loftier,  and  more  divinely  given 
calling  and  obligation  than  to  be  the 
right  kind  of  wife  and  mother  in  her 
home.  And  however  superior  her  at- 
tainments may  be,  she  owes  a  duty  to 
her  husband,  to  respect  him  as  head  of 
the  family  and  adequately  teach  her 
children  to  do  likewise. 

The  judge  to  whom  I  referred  says: 
"If  mothers  would  understand  that 
much  of  their  importance  lies  in  build- 
ing up  the  father  image  for  the  child, 
they  would  achieve  the  deep  satisfac- 
tion of  children  who  turn  out  well.  .  .  . 
And  no  mother  would  ever  have  to 
stand  before  me  with  tears  in  her  eyes 
and  ask,  'What  did  I  do  that  was  wrong, 
Judge?  What  did  I  do  that  was 
wrong?' " 

It  seems  indelicate  in  an  address  of 
this  character  even  to  use  the  expres- 
sion, "nagging  wives."  If  I  did  not  re- 
gard the  matter  pertinent  to  the  subject 
I  am  discussing,  I  would  not  mention 
it.  I  feel  that  women  who  may  be  said 
to  be  in  this  category  cannot  be  fully 
conscious,  whatever  their  provocation 
may  be,  of  the  damage  they  do  to  the 


96 

Sunday,  April  6 

morale  of  a  home.  I  give  to  women 
generally  the  credit  for  being  long- 
suffering  and  patient,  and  I  think  that 
in  the  foreseeable  future  they  will  still 
be  called  upon  for  great  toleration,  but 
I  hope  they  will  still  be  able  to  show 
kindness  and  patience  to  those  who  may 
annoy  them.  I  think  that  parental  dis- 
putes before  the  children  are  one  of  the 
most  regrettable  and  lamentable  of  all 
aspects  of  domestic  relations.  They  are 
responsible  for  more  disruption  of  do- 
mestic tranquility  and  inimical  effects 
on  children  than  almost  any  other  oc- 
currences in  family  life.  I  suppose 
inevitably  parents  will  have  some  differ- 
ences. For  the  sake  of  everybody  con- 
cerned let  them  be  settled  privately,  and 
of  course  they  can  be  settled  privately 
if  a  spirit  of  tolerance  and  a  recognition 
of  responsibility  prevail.  I  think  that 
"nagging  wives"  cannot  nag  their  hus- 
bands into  doing  anything  that  is  worth- 
while. Nagging  is  futile  in  the  main, 
and  disruptive  of  any  spirit  of  harmony 
and  peace.  In  homes  where  the  priest- 
hood presides  rebellion  and  devotion 
will  not  thrive  together. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters  and 
friends,  this  idea  of  putting  Father  back 
at  the  head  of  the  family  is  not  just  a 
novel  and  catchy  phrase.  It  conforms 
to  the  revelations  of  the  Lord,  as  I  think 
the  judge  who  advocated  it  must  have 
well  known.  In  Ephesians,  chapter  5, 
verses  22  through  25,  we  read: 

"Wives,  submit  yourselves  unto  your 
own  husbands,  as  unto  the  Lord. 

"For  the  husband  is  the  head  of  the 
wife,  even  as  Christ  is  the  head  of 
the  church:  and  he  is  the  saviour  of  the 
body. 

"Therefore  as  the  church  is  subject 
unto  Christ,  so  let  the  wives  be  to  their 
own  husbands  in  every  thing. 

"Husbands,  love  your  wives,  even  as 
Christ  also  loved  the  church,  and  gave 
himself  for  it." 

Scripture  given  in  modern  times  also 
lends  support  to  this  fundamental  doc- 
trine. When  properly  interpreted  and 
applied  I  do  not  see  how  good  women 
should  take  exception  to  it.  No  woman 
can  be  a  good  mother  without  desiring 
the  goodness  and  well-being  of  her 
children.  If  the  establishment  of  head- 
ship in  the  family  contributes  to  their 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

welfare,  as  the  learning  on  the  subject 
seems  to  indicate,  how  can  she  do  other 
than  strive  to  establish  respect  and  re- 
gard for  her  husband?  I  admit  that 
some  husbands  and  fathers  have  made 
it  difficult  for  respect  to  be  maintained 
for  them,  but  to  abandon  the  principle 
and  thus  remove  from  fathers  the  re- 
sponsibility of  maintaining  virtue  and 
goodness  among  their  children  would 
certainly  avail  nothing. 

It  is  needless  to  say  that  if  a  father 
is  to  be  respected  as  the  head  of  the 
household  he  must  be  an  exemplar. 
The  article  to  which  I  have  referred  sets 
forth  the  principle  that  students  of 
juvenile  delinquency  seem  agreed  upon 
the  fact  that  the  child,  to  be  safe  for 
society  and  his  home,  must  have  de- 
pendable standards  to  live  by.  There 
must  be  clear  recognition  between  right 
and  wrong,  and  there  must  be  sound, 
wise,  and  kindly  discipline.  In  the 
midst  of  the  somewhat  confusing 
theories  advanced  by  the  sociologists 
and  criminologists,  it  seems  to  me  we 
cannot  be  going  far  afield  by  endeavor- 
ing to  furnish  to  youth  criteria  for  the 
guidance  of  their  lives.  There  are  no 
criteria  which  seem  dependable  except- 
ing only  those  which  have  been  tried 
and  not  found  wanting,  principles  of 
righteousness  and  truth,  coming  to  us 
from  divine  sources.  I  cannot  see  how 
any  intelligent  parent  can  feel  much  in 
the  way  of  hazard  and  uncertainty  in 
having  his  child  brought  up  to  recog- 
nize the  traditionally  divinely  approved 
virtues  and  principles  of  conduct. 

Yesterday  we  read  of  a  youth  of  rath- 
er high  social  standing  gratifying  a 
passion  to  kill,  which  resulted  in  the 
murder  of  a  girl.  Tomorrow  we  will 
read  of  another  such  case,  or  the  next 
day,  or  shortly  thereafter.  Certainly 
there  is  something  lacking  in  the  train- 
ing for  life  of  such  perverts.  I  noted 
with  satisfaction  the  observations  of  J. 
Edgar  Hoover  in  the  paper  night  before 
last  on  that  same  subject. 

The  other  day  Billy  Graham  wrote  an 
article  for  the  same  magazine  from 
which  I  have  quoted,  under  the  cap- 
tion, "Why  I  Believe  in  the  Devil."  He 
gave  three  reasons.  First,  because  the 
Bible  plainly  says  he  exists.  Second, 
"because  I  see  his  work  everywhere." 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


97 


Third,  because  great  scholars  have 
recognized  his  existence. 

The  first  reason  is  enough  for  me. 
The  Lord  has  revealed  the  existence  of 
Satan  and  his  place  and  function  in  the 
eternal  plan  of  life  and  salvation.  Billy 
Graham  apparently  did  not  know  what 
modern  scripture  contained  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon  and  our  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants reveals  on  this  subject,  or  he 
would  have  quoted  it,  or  at  least  I  hope 
he  would.   Here  is  a  quotation: 

It  must  needs  be  that  the  devil  should 
tempt  the  children  of  men,  or  they  could 
not  be  agents  unto  themselves;  for  if  they 
never  should  have  bitter  they  could  not 
know  the  sweet.  (D  &  C  29:39.) 

This  and  other  illuminating  scrip- 
tures indicate  that  man  could  not  have 
had  his  free  agency  to  develop  strength 
of  character,  resistance  to  evil,  and  go  on 
to  perfection  except  he  be  subjected  to 
the  power  and  the  influence  of  Satan, 
the  father  of  evil.  Some  sophisticated 
people  ridicule  the  idea  of  such  a  per- 
sonage of  power,  but  that  does  not  dis- 
pense with  the  revealed  account  of  his 
actuality  and  the  record  of  his  accom- 
plishments. 

Sunday  School  teachers  and  others 
may  give  to  the  growing  child  teachings 
concerning  good  and  evil,  but  who  like 
the  father  of  the  family  can  teach  the 
power  of  the  Adversary  and  the  resist- 
ance necessary  to  be  built  up  to  resist 
his  seductive  temptations  to  the  chil- 
dren for  whom  he  is  responsible?  Who 
can  demonstrate  to  the  child  by  the 
power  of  example  the  virtues  and  the 
standards  of  righteousness  as  can  this 
head  of  the  family? 

To  all  who  believe  that  order  is  the 
law  of  heaven  and  that  the  kingdom  of 
God  is  established  on  the  principles  of 
righteousness,  I  submit  these  questions: 
Can  order  be  maintained  without  accept- 
ance of  law  and  without  discipline?  Is 
discipline  possible  without  recognition 
of  authority?  In  human  institutions 
and  the  government  of  men  is  it  not 
essential  that  authority  be  vested  in  per- 
sonalities? Where  is  the  personality 
more  perfectly  endowed  by  nature  and 
divine  ordinance  to  receive  and  exer- 
cise authority  in  his  own  household 
than  the  father  of  that  household? 


Where  can  we  hope  for  a  greater  con- 
tribution to  come  to  the  order  of  the 
kingdom  than  from  the  homes  of  our 
land?  What  greater  tribute  may  we 
pay  to  our  beloved  Savior  on  this  Easter 
day  than  to  rededicate  ourselves  to  the 
maintenance  of  a  righteous  discipline  in 
his  kingdom,  and  in  all  the  worthy  in- 
stitutions which  have  been  set  up  in  the 
societies  of  men?  Can  you  think  of  a 
greater  kindness  to  youth  than  to  pre- 
pare them  in  love  and  firmness  to  be 
worthy  of  the  love  of  God  and  the  eter- 
nal blessings  which  he  holds  out  to  all 
who  obey? 

So,  my  friends,  I  have  no  hesitancy, 
no  feeling  of  dubiety  and  uncertainty  in 
advocating  the  adoption  in  your  homes 
of  this  salutary  promising  idea  to  bring 
Father  back  as  the  head  of  the  family. 
I  have  no  words  to  express  my  admira- 
tion and  deep-seated  regard  for  the 
mothers  in  our  homes,  and  I  am  fully 
aware  that  their  loving,  patient  care 
shall  always  be  a  major  factor  in  the 
development  of  good  and  virtuous  men 
and  women.  Because  of  their  intense 
love  of  home  and  family  I  believe  they 
will  the  more  readily  respond  to  the  idea 
I  am  advancing.  I  know  that  they  will 
welcome  anything  that  is  right  to  guard 
against  an  ever-increasing  calamity  that 
shakes  our  very  national  life,  not  only 
for  present  generations  but  that  may 
shape  its  course  for  ages  to  come. 

God  bless  the  homes  of  our  own  land 
and  of  all  the  whole  world.  God  bless 
the  children  that  they  may  come  to 
know  truth  and  righteousness  and  adopt 
all  that  is  good  in  their  lives.  God  bless 
the  mothers  for  the  love  they  bring  into 
our  homes,  and  God  bless  the  fathers 
that  they  may  be  worthy  to  take  their 
appointed  places  as  heads  of  the  house- 
holds over  which  they  may  preside  in 
gentleness,  love,  dignity,  and  honor,  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
We  shall  now,  hear  from  Elder  Marion 
D.  Hanks  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy. 


98 

Sunday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


Third  Day 


Perhaps  no  conference  in  my  re- 
membrance has  devoted  such  effective 
and  repeated  emphasis  to  the  home  and 
the  family,  to  children  and  youth, 
and  to  those  who  have  to  deal  with 
them.  Not  attempting  to  correlate  or 
specifically  to  fit  in  with  what  has  been 
said,  and  out  of  my  modest  experience 
and  ability,  I  would  like  today,  in  the 
time  allotted  to  me,  to  talk  not  to  the 
young  (which  I  have  often  done),  nor 
exclusively  to  their  parents,  but  about 
the  young  to  the  adult  generation  in 
and  out  of  the  Church. 

Out  of  my  love  for  young  people  and 
the  blessing  of  teaching  them  over  the 
years  and  the  association  and  friendship 
I  have  enjoyed  with  them,  I  have 
learned  a  few  things,  some  of  which 
I  would  like  to  mention  today  as  perti- 
nent to  the  general  theme  of  home  and 
family  and  the  relationships  of  adult 
and  youth. 

About  the  young  people  I  have 
learned  these  things,  among  others: 

1.  That  by  and  large  they  are  in- 
clined to  be  like  their  parents,  to  be 
what  their  parents  are.  President 
Richards  has  impressively  given  the 
basis  for  my  brief  repetition  of  this 
thought.  There  are,  I  am  certain,  excep- 
tions, since  each  child,  like  each  of  us, 
is  an  agent  before  God,  blessed  with 
the  right  to  choose  and  responsible  for 
his  choices.  They,  like  we,  must  choose, 
and  therefore  some  of  them  are  not  like 
their  fine  parents,  while  some  improve 
upon  their  parents.  But  we  may  repeat 
with  absolute  assurance  that  by  and 
large  they  are  inclined  to  be  like  their 
parents. 

Now,  this  characteristic  of  youth  can 
result  in  great  good  or  in  bad,  depend- 
ing upon  what  parents  are,  what  kind 
of  example  and  precept  they  present. 

2.  A  second  thing  I  mention  about 
the  young:  they  can  be  tremendously 
influenced  by  interested  adults  other 
than  their  parents,  by  teachers,  leaders, 
counselors,  bishops,  by  interested  adults 
who  will  take  time  to  love  and  give 
attention  to  them,  to  have  confidence  in 
them,  and  faith,  because  young  people, 
like  the  rest  of  us,  respond  to  those  who 


show  interest  in  them.  They  love  those 
who  love  them,  trust  those  who  trust 
them,  and  in  general  can  be  counted 
upon  responding  to  the  type  of  adult 
who  is  interested  in  them. 

Of  course,  this,  can  be  a  good  or  bad 
thing,  depending  upon  the  kind  of 
adults  who  show  interest,  and  what 
their  motivations  are. 

3.  A  third  thing  I  have  learned  about 
the  young:  They  love  an  ideal.  They 
are  great  followers.  Their  ideal  may  be 
a  singer,  an  actor,  a  teacher,  a  parent, 
an  author,  an  explorer,  a  scientist,  an 
athlete,  but  they  are  inclined  to  choose 
someone  to  idealize.  Usually  it  is  some- 
one older  than  they,  more  mature  and 
adult,  but  not  always. 

This,  like  other  characteristics  of  the 
young,  can  be  good  or  bad,  depending 
upon  the  persons  whom  they  choose  to 
idealize. 

4.  I  have  learned  about  the  young 
that  they  can  be  taught,  that  they  are 
responsive  to  the  atmosphere  and  en- 
vironment of  the  world  around  them. 
They  respond  to  advertising  and  exam- 
ple, to  filth  and  evil  and  degradation 
and  bad  influence,  and  they  will  re- 
spond likewise  to  virtue  and  decency 
and  integrity  and  honor,  if  these  quali- 
ties are  manifested  to  them  in  language 
they  can  understand.  They  can  be 
taught. 

This  can  be  good  or  bad,  depending 
upon  the  fare  their  minds  and  eyes  are 
fed  upon. 

5.  I  note  about  the  young  that  they 
are  not  easily  misled  as  to  individuals. 
They  can  often  detect  quickly  one  who 
seeks  to  deceive  them.  They  can  un- 
cover in  interested  adults  with  question- 
able motivations  the  real  purposes  of 
their  interest.  Again  and  again  I  have 
seen  it  demonstrated  that  they  can  spot 
one  who  tries  to  deceive,  who  pretends 
to  represent  virtue  and  integrity  and 
does  not.  It  is  also  true  that  young  peo- 
ple sometimes  are  more  willing  to  fol- 
low an  openly  evil  or  cynical  person 
than  one  who  is  not  what  he  should 
be  and  pretends  to  be.  Therefore,  it 
matters  a  great  deal  that  we  be  genuine 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 


99 


and  earnest  and  honest  in  our  relation- 
ships with  them. 

Believing  that  the  young  can  be 
taught,  and  desiring  to  surround  them 
with  virtuous  and  uplifting  and  en- 
nobling ideals,  the  Church  has  en- 
deavored to  provide  experiences  and 
influences  and  opportunities  in  the  lives 
of  the  young  which  will  bring  into 
their  beings,  their  minds,  their  very 
souls,  the  high  and  noble  and  decent 
things  which  will  motivate  them  to 
contributing,  participating  citizenship 
in  the  world  and  in  God's  kingdom. 

For  that  purpose,  the  Brethren  have 
provided  a  series  of  small  cards  and 
large  posters,  with  a  general  theme,  "Be 
Honest  with  Yourself,"  and  some  mag- 
nificent contributions  have  been  made 
to  the  young,  contributions  with  which 
I  am  sure  every  right  thinking  adult, 
in  or  out  of  the  Church,  would  be 
sympathetic.  My  experience  as  I  have 
traveled  the  country  and  passed  on  the 
idea  to  others  not  of  the  Church  is  that 
they  have  responded  with  great  interest 
to  the  program.  Last  night  Brother 
Petersen  announced  that  records  have 
been  added  to  this  program — recordings 
of  voices  of  successful,  spiritual  men, 
whose  example  and  whose  counsel  will 
bless  the  lives  of  the  young. 

Now,  I  have  one  serious  question  to 
ask.  I  have  talked  about  the  young,  and 
have  said  of  them  that  they  are  going 
to  be  like  their  parents  by  and  large, 
but  that  they  will  respond  to  interested 
adults  outside  of  the  home;  that  they 
are  responsive  also  to  ideas  and  ideals; 
that  they  can  be  taught;  and  that  we  are 
attempting  to  get  them  to  "be  honest" 
with  themselves.  The  question  I  ask 
is:  "Are  we,  the  adult  generation,  hon- 
est with  ourselves  and  with  them?" 

Time  will  not  permit  any  kind  of 
extensive  treatment  of  the  problem  or 
question,  but  I  repeat  it  and  ask:  Is  it 
possible  that  in  our  approaches  to  the 
youth  we  are  missing  the  significance  of 
the  opportunity  to  teach  them  that  is 
ours?  Could  it  be  that  Thoreau  speaks 
of  many  of  us  when  he  says  there  are 
"thousands  hacking  at  the  branches  of 
evil  to  one  who  is  striking  at  the  roots"? 

I  read  a  statement  by  an  interested 
modern  observer  a  time  ago,  which  is 
a  little  harsh,  perhaps,  but  which  I 


repeat  because  I  am  sure  it  has  some 
truth  in  it.   He  says, 

Youth  has  more  to  teach  its  parents  than 
to  learn  from  them.  The  real  savages  are 
the  old,  not  the  young.  Much  of  what  the 
young  learn  from  their  elders  they  acquire 
at  their  peril.  The  world's  tragedy  is  that 
it  must  be  grown  up — in  other  words,  that 
it  must  be  run  by  men,  who  though  they 
know  much,  have  forgotten  what  they 
were  in  their  youth. 

And  as  a  key  to  what  I  am  hoping  to 
suggest  to  you,  in  and  out  of  the 
Church,  interested  adults,  these  words 
of  Quarles: 

Thou  canst  not  rebuke  in  children  what 
they  see  practised  in  thee.  Till  reason  be 
ripe,  examples  direct  more  than  precept. 
Such  as  is  thy  behavior  before  thy  chil- 
dren's faces,  such  is  theirs  behind  thy  back. 

May  I  point  out  an  example  or  two. 
The  Lord  has  given  us  counsel  about 
the  significance  of  this  magnificent  ma- 
chine, the  body  with  which  we  are  mor- 
tally blessed,  and  has  taught  us  that 
the  body  is  an  eternal  component  of  the 
soul — that  "the  spirit  and  the  body  are 
the  soul  of  man."  We  teach  the  young 
that  their  bodies  matter,  and  that  their 
care  of  them  is  important. 

On  an  airplane  a  week  ago  last  Friday 
headed  toward  the  East,  I  read  out  of 
the  same  section  of  one  newspaper  two 
interesting  items — one  a  statement  by  a 
director  of  the  American  Cancer  Society 
that  if  Americans  would  stop  smoking 
it  is  likely  25,000  of  them  would  be  saved 
from  certain  death  by  lung  cancer  in 
the  next  few  years.  And  in  the  same 
section,  the  notation  that  in  1957  Ameri- 
cans smoked  409  billion  cigarettes,  an 
increase  of  four  percent  and  more  over 
the  year  before.  Can  you  say  to  a 
youngster,  "Be  Honest  with  Yourself," 
in  a  world  where  this  goes  on?  Do  you 
yourself  contribute  to  the  confusion  that 
must  result  in  his  mind? 

I  read  in  that  same  newspaper  (out  of 
one  edition  in  one  day)  another  interest- 
ing item — a  statement  about  a  62-year- 
old  practising  attorney  in  a  midwestern 
city  who  had  given  himself  up  under 
the  pressures  of  a  tremendous  man  hunt 
for  a  hit-run  driver.  A  prominent  lead- 
ing citizen,  he  confessed  that  he  had  a 
hazy  notion  of  having  hit  something  on 
his  way  home  from  a  cocktail  party. 


100 

Sunday,  April  6 

The  something  he  hit  was  a  31-year-old 
father  of  five  children,  a  scoutmaster 
who  died  on  the  street  where  he  was 
hit.  In  newspapers  and  magazines  on 
the  airplane  were  the  blandishments  of 
the  liquor  trusts,  encouraging  youngsters 
to  be  like  certain  "men  of  distinction," 
like  this  man,  perhaps. 

There  are  so  many  elements  of  the 
theme  that  there  is  not  time  to  touch 
them,  but  I  ask  you  today  that  when  we 
cry  to  the  young  to  "be  honest"  with 
themselves  we  consider  what  goes  on  in 
the  world  around  us,  the  movies  and 
television,  the  books  and  plays,  the  ad- 
vertising in  the  newspapers  we  read, 
that  so  pervert  the  great  creative  capac- 
ity of  man  given  us  of  God  in  order 
that  we  might  find  a  partner,  get  mar- 
ried in  his  appointed  way,  establish  a 
home  and  build  a  family,  an  outpost  on 
earth  of  heaven's  promise.  So  many 
have  perverted  this  magnificent  gift  of 
God  that  we  live  in  a  world  where  sex- 
ual adventuring  is  almost,  it  would 
seem,  a  rule  among  many,  looked  upon 
as  a  form  of  amusement.  I  say  I  can- 
not believe  that  we  can  with  honor  and 
honesty  tell  the  young  to  "be  honest" 
with  themselves  knowing  that  they  are 
responsive  to  the  example  we  interested 
adults  set. 

It  is  so  with  us — we  who  claim  to  be 
followers  of  the  Risen  Christ  and  yet 
do  not  obey  his  commandments.  It  is 
so  especially  on  this  significant  Easter 
day.   He  said: 

I  am  the  way,  the  truth,  and  the  life: 
no  man  cometh  unto  the  Father  but  by 
me.  (John  14:6.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Yet  there  are  those  preaching  in  his 
name  who  are  willing  to  be  quoted  in 
the  newspapers  as  saying  that  they  pre- 
fer not  to  have  the  term  Christian  ap- 
plied to  themselves,  for  Jesus  Christ,  to 
them,  said  one  recently,  was  a  folk  tale 
like  Santa  Claus. 

I  say  to  you  that  there  are  those  who 
know  for  certain  for  themselves  that 
God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and 
that  living  his  commandments  and  being 
honest  with  ourselves  is  the  only  way 
really  to  motivate  the  young  to  do  what 
we  would  like  them  to  do.  I  testify 
that  I  do  know  these  things.  God  bless 
us  that  we  may  bless  them  as  he  intends 
we  shall,  I  pray  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  addressed 
us.  The  Choir  and  congregation  will 
now  sing,  "High  On  The  Mountain 
Top,"  with  Richard  P.  Condie  con- 
ducting. After  the  singing  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric  will  address  us. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined 
in  singing  the  hymn,  "High  On  The 
Mountain  Top." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  will  now  speak  to 
us.  Bishop  Isaacson  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen. 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


Surely  we  all  owe  a  debt  of  gratitude 
to  this  marvelous  choir.  Brother  Condie 
and  the  choir  have  won  our  hearts  this 
morning.  There  are  many  individuals 
in  the  Church  and  out  of  the  Church  all 
over  the  world  who  greatly  appreciate 
their  beautiful  music  and  the  selections 
of  their  renditions. 

While  standing  before  you  today,  I 
pray  that  the  Lord  may  sustain  me  and 
direct  me,  and  I  shall  be  grateful  to 
each  of  you  for  an  interest  in.  your  faith 


and  prayers.  Truly,  this  is  a  humbling 
experience.  I  am  sure  it  would  be  a 
humbling  experience  for  you,  too,  but 
probably  that  is  as  it  should  be  because 
we  are  here  this  morning— this  beautiful 
Sabbath  Easter  morning — in  true  wor- 
ship. We  acknowledge  God  as  our 
Heavenly  Father.  We  accept  Jesus 
Christ  as  the  Savior  and  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world.  We  teach  his  birth 
in  Bethlehem,  his  life  in  Galilee,  and 
his  sojourn  in  Jerusalem.  We  accept  the 


BISHOP  THOR 

mission  of  Jesus  as  the  Savior  of 
the  world.  We  recount  that  mission,  his 
contribution,  the  trial  of  Jesus  that  Presi- 
dent Clark  so  beautifully  told  us  about 
yesterday,  and  finally  the  crucifixion  of 
the  Savior  on  the  hill  of  Calvary  in  Old 
Jerusalem. 

A  few  years  ago  as  I  stood  by  the 
side  of  that  tomb  in  Old  Jerusalem  I 
think  I  loved  Jesus  more  then  than 
I  have  ever  done  before  in  my  life. 
We  accept  the  resurrection  of  Jesus  as 
true,  and  we  know  he  came  forth  from 
the  tomb  as  the  Resurrected  Christ, 
thereby  giving  eternal  life,  probably 
God's  greatest  gift  to  man. 

We  teach  and  we  recognize  the  ap- 
pearance of  God,  the  Father,  and  his 
Son,  Jesus  Christ,  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
in  the  Sacred  Grove.  There  are  some  of 
our  friends  who  can  hardly  accept  that 
as  truth,  but  we  would  plead  with  them 
to  study  and  pray,  and  that  testimony 
will  come  to  them.  We  acknowledge 
Joseph  Smith  as  a  prophet  of  God.  He 
was  raised  up,  preserved,  and  divinely 
called.  We  teach  and  we  believe  in  the 
revelations  received  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph.  These  revelations  are  true,  and 
this  chosen  prophet  left  to  the  world 
more  doctrines  of  life  and  salvation  than 
any  other  person  who  ever  lived,  save 
Christ  himself.  He  was  truly  a  divinely 
called  and  inspired  prophet,  and  sealed 
his  testimony  with  his  life  and  blood 
along  with  his  wonderful  brother, 
Hyrum,  who  was  also  martyred  at 
Carthage  Jail  in  Illinois. 

Yes,  we  accept  these  things  as  factual, 
and  we  know  without  a  doubt  that  they 
are  true;  that  the  Lord  revealed  his  will 
to  this  prophet,  and  after  the  death  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  another  great 
prophet  was  raised  up,  preserved,  and 
divinely  called — the  prophet  and  Presi- 
dent Brigham  Young,  who  had  a  great 
mission  to  perform  in  leading  this  peo- 
ple on  that  unknown  journey.  After 
the  death  of  the  Prophet  Brigham 
Young,  other  prophets  were  raised  up 
and  divinely  called  to  lead  the  Church, 
each  one  in  his  time  a  true  prophet  of 
the  Lord.  At  the  present  time  one 
stands  at  the  head  of  this  Church  and 
is  the  mouthpiece  of  God,  our  Eternal 
Father.  President  David  O.  McKay  is 
a  prophet  of  the  Lord,  just  as  were  the 


3  B.  ISAACSON  101 

prophets  of  old.  I  bear  testimony  to  you 
that  I  know  this  to  be  true,  and  I  know 
it  by  the  power  and  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  testifies 
to  our  spirits  and  we  believe. 

I  would  like  to  address  some  of  my 
remarks  to  a  very  large  group  of  brethren 
whom  I  regard  as  fine  men  and  of  great 
potential  power  and  strength  and  in 
whom  I  have  great  interest,  the  senior 
members  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  I 
know  many  of  them,  and  I  want  to  ex- 
press to  them  our  love  and  our  friend- 
ship. We  have  only  one  desire,  that 
we  can  share  with  them  some  of  the 
joys  and  blessings  that  we  are  privileged 
to  enjoy.  When  you  stop  to  think  of 
this  large  group  of  men,  if  it  were  pos- 
sible to  assemble  them,  we  would  fill 
this  tabernacle  ten  times  as  it  is  filled 
this  morning. 

Where  are  they  today,  and  what  have 
we  done  about  it?  We  want  to  tell 
them  that  we  love  them,  and  we  wel- 
come them  back  into  activity  in  the 
Church.  We  want  to  assure  them  of 
our  interest  in  their  welfare.  We  have 
been  greatly  impressed  with  the  progress 
made  by  these  wonderful  men,  and  we 
would  plead  with  all  of  our  brethren  of 
this  group  and  other  groups  that  if  for 
any  reason  you  may  have  become  in- 
active in  the  Church,  we  want  you  back 
because  it  will  bring  you  greater  joys 
and  blessings  than  have  ever  come  to 
you  any  other  way  in  your  life.  We  can 
promise  you  that  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  changes  the  pattern  and  the 
attitude  and  the  personality  and  the 
personal  spiritual  strength  of  men  who 
will  accept  Christ  and  the  teachings  of 
the  gospel. 

May  I  give  you  a  quotation  from  Alma 
to  express  to  you  how  we  feel: 

Behold,  O  Lord,  their  souls  are  precious, 
and  many  of  them  are  our  brethren;  there- 
fore, give  unto  us,  O  Lord,  power  and 
wisdom  that  we  may  bring  these,  our  breth- 
ren, again  unto  thee.  (Alma  31:35.) 

In  a  recently  completed  survey,  with 
224  stakes  reporting  regarding  the  activ- 
ity of  their  schools  for  senior  members 
of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  we  are  pleas- 
antly encouraged  and  grateful  to  see 
what  is  taking  place.  We  have,  for 
instance,  at  the  present  time,  approxi- 
mately 367  schools  now  in  session  for 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


102 

Sunday,  April  6 

the  senior  members  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  and  their  wives,  some  of  them 
on  a  ward  and  some  on  a  stake  basis. 
We  have  had  enrolled  in  these  schools 
in  the  last  year  more  than  17,000  of 
these  wonderful  men  and  their  wives, 
and  we  are  learning  of  some  glorious  ex- 
periences that  have  come  into  the  lives 
of  these  brethren. 

Just  yesterday  I  shook  hands  with  a 
former  senior  member  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  who  now  is  a  stake  president. 
It  is  not  uncommon  for  us  to  shake 
hands  with  some  who  are  now  bishops. 

May  I  give  you  a  few  excerpts  from 
some  of  the  special  survey  sheets  regard- 
ing these  schools,  the  comments  of 
which  are  from  the  senior  members  of 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood? 

Perhaps  the  greatest  benefit  that  I  re- 
ceived from  the  school  was  the  feeling 
that  my  Church  was  still  very  much  inter- 
ested in  me  in  spite  of  my  inactivity  for 
so  many  years,  and  that  I  was  still  needed 
and  wanted  in  the  Church;  that  I  still  had 
a  chance  to  make  up  in  a  way  for  years  of 
absence;  that  there  was  still  time  left,  but 
that  I  must  not  procrastinate  longer. 

Another: 

I  have  completed  the  first  school,  and  I 
recommend  that  all  the  senior  members  of 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood  attend  these  schools. 
It  is  a  great  feeling  to  feel  yourself  grow 
as  you  get  interested  again  in  the  Church. 
This  school  seems  to  give  us  the  spark  that 
we  need  for  most  of  us  to  get  started  again, 
and  I  would  recommend  to  every  senior 
member  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  that  you 
attend  these  schools. 

It  was  through  this  school  that  my  wife 
and  I  received  the  spark  of  hope,  and  now 
we  are  working  our  way  to  the  temple. 

It  is  wonderful  to  see  how  the  lives 
of  individuals  may  be  changed,  and  the 
lives  of  sons  and  daughters  likewise  are 
changed,  because  they  are  happy  when 
their  fathers  and  mothers  make  adjust- 
ments in  their  own  lives.  To  sons  and 
daughters  who  come  from  a  divided 
family — the  father  a  member  of  the 
Church  or  the  mother  a  member  of  the 
Church — you  can  do  so  much  for  your 
mother  and  your  father.  A  girl,  a  while 
ago,  sent  this  letter  to  her  father  and 
mother  in  answer  to  a  letter  that  she 
had  received. 


Third  Day 

Dear  Mother  and  Daddy:  I  received  your 
letter,  and  I  have  never  had  such  a  pleasant 
and  wonderful  surprise  in  my  life  as  when 
I  read  it,  telling  me  that  Dad  was  now 
going  to  join  the  Church.  I  started  to  cry, 
and  I  cry  every  time  I  think  of  it  because 
really,  I  have  never  been  so  happy.  This 
is  the  blessing  that  I  have  been  praying  for 
ever  since  I  was  big  enough  to  know  how 
to  pray. 

Young  people,  you,  too,  can  do  that 
for  your  fathers  and  your  mothers. 

Dad,  I  know  you  will  now  be  greatly 
blessed,  and  if  you  will  live  the  command- 
ments our  Heavenly  Father  has  given  us, 
you  will  soon  have  the  Holy  Priesthood 
which  will  give  you  the  power  to  do  the 
things  that  you  have  never  dreamed  of 
doing  before.  I  think  it  will  be  so  wonder- 
ful if  you  will  both  live  worthy  of  being 
married  in  the  temple  some  day. 

I  cannot  think  of  a  more  glorious  wedding 
gift  for  me  than  to  be  sealed  to  both  my 
mother  and  father  and  my  sweetheart,  Jim, 
on  the  same  day.  Another  great  thing  will 
be  that  now,  Daddy,  you  will  be  able  to 
assist  in  many  ordinances  of  the  Church, 
and  someday  assist  in  the  blessings  of  my 
babies.  That  will  mean  so  much  to  me. 
Nothing  could  have  ever  made  me  happier 
than  this  has  made  me. 

I  love  you,  and  as  your  daughter,  I  am 
very  proud  of  both  of  you.  You  have  made 
me  so  happy,  and  I  will  always  be  what 
you  expect  me  to  be. 

We  are  humble  and  truly  grateful  for 
our  membership  in  this  Church.  We 
do  not  wish  to  appear  arrogant  or 
haughty,  because  we  realize  that  we  are 
not  as  good  as  we  should  be,  but  we 
are  thankful  we  are  as  good  as  we  are, 
and  are  grateful  to  God  for  what  we  can 
yet  become. 

The  Church  offers  us  the  opportunity 
to  worship  God  and  a  chance  to  come 
into  an  awareness  of  him.  With  him 
there  is  healing  of  sorrows,  strength 
for  the  day,  and  peace  at  the  last.  If 
we  have  been  at  odds  with  ourselves  or 
with  God,  our  Father,  and  the  universe, 
reconciliation  with  the  Master,  with  our 
fellows,  and  our  soul  can  come.  That 
change  will  come  about  if  we  are  hum- 
ble, repentant,  and  seek  the  assistance 
of  our  Heavenly  Father,  but  it  can  never 
take  place  without  communion  with  the 
Lord  and  a  spiritual  religious  belief  and 
faith. 

The  understanding  of  God's  goodness 
enables  man  to  meet  everyday  needs, 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


103 


problems,  and  troubles.  We  can  come 
to  a  reconciliation  with  God,  with  peo- 
ple, and  with  ourselves.  Despair  and 
discouragement  can  be  transformed  to 
confidence,  guilt  to  forgiveness;  cross 
purposes  and  uncertain  goals  can  be 
changed  to  spiritual  strength.  Yes,  one's 
real  personality  heretofore  utterly  alone 
can  take  on  a  new  character  with  true 
humility.  True  religion  gives  one 
strength  to  ask  forgiveness  of  one's  fel- 
low men.  If  that  be  difficult,  and  some- 
times it  is,  all  we  need  to  do  is  to 
become  humble,  and  it  gives  us  spiritual 
strength  to  ask  for  God's  forgiveness.  If 
we  can  only  accept  and  thoroughly 
recognize  that  God  is  our  Father,  if  we 
will  listen  to  his  words,  we  will  not  be 
troubled. 

The  gospel  as  taught  by  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  will 
lift  one  higher  than  any  other  philos- 
ophy on  earth.  It  will  give  one  a  higher 
knowledge,  more  to  live  for  and  more 
to  die  for  than  any  other  church  on  the 
earth,  because  it  is  the  true  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ.  The  truths  of  the  gospel 
are  beautiful.  As  a  church  and  as  a 
people,  we  are  particularly  blessed  with 
the  scriptures  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  I  would  like  to  say  to  my  friends 
who  may  be  inactive,  or  those  not  of 
the  Church,  the  Lord  has  made  all  of 
us  a  very  definite  promise  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon  (see  Moroni  10:3-5),  and  I 
hope  that  every  man  within  the  sound 
of  my  voice  who  has  never  done  so  will 
read  the  following.    The  Lord  said: 

Behold,  I  would  exhort  you  that  when  ye 
shall  read  these  things,  if  it  be  wisdom  in 
God  that  ye  should  read  them,  that  ye 
would  remember  how  merciful  the  Lord 
hath  been  unto  the  children  of  men,  from 
the  creation  of  Adam  even  down  until  the 
time  that  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  and 
ponder  it  in  your  hearts. 

And  when  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  I 
would  exhort  you  that  ye  would  ask  God, 
the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ, 
if  these  things  are  not  true;  and  if  ye  shall 
ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent, 
having  faith  in  Christ,  he  will  manifest  the 
truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost. 

And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ye 
may  know  the  truth  of  all  things.  (Moroni 
10:3-5.) 

Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney  has  written 
the  following  concerning  Mormonism: 


Mormonism's  magnanimity  —  And  yet 
"Mormonism"  is  said  to  be  narrow,  small 
and  illiberal.  Narrow,  forsooth!  Then 
where  will  you  find  breadth?  Where  find 
justice,  mercy,  magnanimity,  if  not  in  a 
religion  that  saves  the  living,  redeems  the 
dead  .  .  .  ,  and  glories  all  who  repent? 
"Mormonism"  a  small  thing?  It's  the  big- 
gest thing  in  the  universe!  It  is  the  Ever- 
lasting Gospel,  the  mighty  soul-ship  of  the 
dispensations,  launched  in  the  days  of  Adam 
upon  the  heaving  ocean  of  the  ages,  and 
now  on  its  last  voyage  over  the  stormy 
billows  of  Time  to  the  beaconing  coast  of 
Eternity!  (Saturday  Night  Thoughts.) 

God  can  win  strange  victories  in  the 
hearts  and  lives  of  those  who  believe  in 
him.  Too  many  people  have  been  try- 
ing to  do  without  God,  perhaps  that  is 
the  reason  for  some  of  their  failures. 

Too  many  people  are  trying  to  give 
irreligion  the  garb  of  respectability. 
They  have  acted  as  if  we  could  acquire 
education  without  acquiring  a  knowl- 
edge of  religion,  and  wisdom  without 
the  experience  and  practice  of  religion. 

Perhaps  we  have  not  found  peace 
within  ourselves.  The  lack  of  peace 
usually  goes  with  the  lack  of  belief  in 
the  Almighty  God  and  a  knowledge  of 
the  availability  to  us  of  his  guidance. 
We  have  not  been  able  to  establish 
peace  among  the  nations  of  the  world. 
With  all  our  knowledge,  we  yet  urgent- 
ly need  to  gain  sufficient  understanding 
completely  to  recognize  that  there  is  an 
inescapable  cause  and  effect  relation- 
ship between  these  mounting  failures 
and  our  diminishing  faith.  Unless  we 
are  willing  to  prepare  for  a  new  dark 
age,  we  must  soon  acknowledge  that  as 
good  as  we  think  we  are,  we  are  not 
good  enough  to  get  along  without  the 
God  our  forefathers  found  indispensable. 

Every  person  might  follow  the  ad- 
monition of  Alma: 

Counsel  with  the  Lord  in  all  thy  doings, 
and  he  will  direct  thee  for  good;  yea,  when 
thou  liest  down  at  night  lie  down  into  the 
Lord,  that  he  may  watch  over  you  in  your 
sleep;  and  when  thou  risest  in  the  morning 
let  thy  heart  be  full  of  thanks  unto  God. 
(Alma  37:37.) 

May  I  close  with  this  thought: 

We  expect  to  pass  through  this  world  but 
once;  therefore,  any  good  that  we  can  do  or 
any  kindness  that  we  can  show  to  any 
living  person,  let  us  do  it  now.   Let  us  not 


104 

Sunday,  April  6 

defer  it  or  neglect  it,  for  we  shall  not  pass 
this  way  again. 

May  God  favor  us  by  granting  to  each 
of  us  the  companionship  and  the  asso- 
ciation of  his  sweet,  holy  Spirit,  I  hum- 
bly pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  has  just  addressed 
us.  Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now  speak 
to  us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Hugh  B.  Brown. 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


As  we  pay  tribute  to  the  Savior  of  the 
world  on  this  Easter  day  and  express 
gratitude  to  him  for  his  great  atonement, 
we  must  remember,  also,  that  to  be  a 
true  Christian  means  that  we  love  Jesus 
Christ  and  that  to  love  him  means  to 
obey  him. 

How  can  we  truly  love  him  unless  we 
walk  in  his  footsteps.  How  can  we  sin- 
cerely honor  him  unless  we  follow  his 
teachings? 

Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me,  Lord, 
Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  kingdom  of 
heaven;  but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  my 
Father  which  is  in  heaven.  (Matt.  7:21.) 

His  great  fundamental  teaching  was 
that  of  love,  and  out  of  love  he  taught 
unity,  harmony,  brotherhood,  sisterhood. 
He  prayed,  you  recall,  that  his  disciples 
might  be  one,  even  as  he  and  his  Father 
were  one.  He  taught  that  a  house  divided 
against  itself  cannot  stand.  A  man  can- 
not divide  his  loyalty,  either.  No  one 
can  serve  two  masters. 

When  he  placed  apostles  and 
prophets  in  the  Christian  church,  as 
Paul  explains,  he  did  so  to  help  the 
saints  to  be  united,  to  reach  a  unity  of 
faith,  to  understand  what  is  true  har- 
mony. Yet,  as  we  contemplate  these 
teachings,  we  must  realize  that  Christi- 
anity itself  is  sadly  divided.  Thoughts 
of  unity  among  the  churches  are  repug- 
nant to  most  Christians,  and  still  they 
claim  to  believe  the  Master's  teachings 
urging  unity  and  brotherhood,  not  divi- 
sion and  lack  of  harmony. 

One  of  the  most  difficult  things  about 
this  division  in  modern  Christianity  is 
the  effect  it  has  upon  family  life.  In 
these  days  of  far  too  much  discord  in  the 
average  American  home,  religious  dif- 
ferences frequently  become  the  impor- 


tant cause  of  discord,  sometimes  to  the 
extent  of  breaking  up  homes,  causing 
separations  and  divorce,  with  all  their 
accompanying  heartaches. 

Every  young  couple  on  making  plans 
for  marriage  hopes  for  a  happy  home 
life.  Everyone  wants  to  make  a  suc- 
cess of  marriage.  Most  young  couples 
have  faith  in  God  and  seek  his  bless- 
ings upon  their  marriage.  But  in  so 
many  instances  the  very  religions  to 
which  they  hold  tend  to  bring  unhappi- 
ness  to  them  because  the  couples  belong 
to  different  religious  faiths.  This  dif- 
ference becomes  a  source  of  irritation, 
conflict,  quarreling,  and  unhappiness. 
It  becomes  so  to  such  an  extent  that 
those  who  have  studied  marriage  most 
are  convinced  that  so-called  interfaith 
marriages  generally  are  a  mistake. 

Christianity  is  too  divided  to  permit 
Christians  of  different  denominations  to 
live  together  in  peace  and  harmony.  It 
may  be  a  great  reflection  upon  Chris- 
tian living  and  Christian  concepts,  but 
it  is  nevertheless  true.  Interfaith  mar- 
riage jeopardizes  the  stability  and  happi- 
ness of  the  home. 

The  Christian  denominations  are  the 
first  to  recognize  this.  They,  themselves, 
advise  their  young  people  to  avoid  mari- 
tal disharmony  by  marrying  within  their 
own  faith.  I  have  written  to  many 
clergymen  of  various  faiths  from  coast 
to  coast,  asking  their  views  on  this 
subject,  and  have  received  back  a  whole 
sheaf  of  letters,  all  advising  against  in- 
terfaith marriage.  To  give  you  a  small 
cross  section  of  their  opinions,  I  read  to 
you  a  few  of  the  letters,  at  least  ex- 
cerpts from  them. 

From  New  York  City,  St.  Patrick's  In- 
formation Center,  the  Rev.  Charles  J. 
McManus  writes: 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


105 


You  can  gather  the  position  of  our  Church 
from  the  fact  that  Catholics  are  forbidden 
to  marry  non-Catholics  by  Church  law. 

And  from  the  Salt  Lake  Diocese  of  the 
Catholic  Church,  a  letter  signed  by  the 
Rev.  Francis  T.  Kelleher,  says: 

His  Excellency,  Bishop  Hunt  has  re- 
quested that  I  answer  your  letter  of  August 
23. 

...  a  mixed  marriage  is  always  poten- 
tially dangerous.  Disagreement  on  reli- 
gion can  lead  to  unhappiness  for  both  par- 
ties, confusion  and  indifference  on  the  part 
of  the  children,  and  even  breakup  of  the 
family.  We  have  seen  it  happen  time  and 
again. 

From  the  First  Presbyterian  Church  of 
Salt  Lake  City,  the  Rev.  E.  E.  Bollinger 
writes: 

The  Protestant  tradition  has  always  taken 
a  firm  stand  in  advising  young  people  to 
marry  within  their  own  historic  faith.  .  . 

We  .  .  .  agree  with  the  LDS  Bishop,  the 
Jewish  Rabbi,  and  the  Roman  Catholic 
Priest,  that  chances  for  harmony  in  marri- 
age are  greatly  minimized  when  there  are 
two  major  religious  traditions  in  the 
home.  .  .  . 

The  Rabbi  Mordecai  Podet  of  the 
Congregation  B'Nai  Israel  of  Salt  Lake 
City,  writes: 

To  my  knowledge  no  clergyman,  marriage 
counselor,  or  other  person  professionally 
trained  and  experienced  in  marital  matters 
recommends  mixed  marriages.  .  .  .  The 
Central  Conference  of  American  Rabbis, 
which  is  the  organization  of  liberal  rabbis, 
is  on  record  opposing  mixed  marriage. 

The  Christ  Lutheran  Church  and 
School,  of  Murray,  Utah,  has  as  its  pas- 
tor, the  Rev.  William  C.  Naatz,  and  he 
writes: 

...  we  urge  our  young  people  to  marry 
within  their  church  if  that  is  at  all  possible. 
The  tragedy  of  intermarriage  is  that  far 
too  often  when  children  are  born  into 
families  of  split  faiths  there  are  serious 
complications.  It  has  been  my  experience 
that  the  great  majority  of  unchurched 
homes  in  our  country  today  are  homes 
where  there  were  originally  two  different 
faiths  involved,  and  as  a  compromise  final- 
ly the  family  ended  up  going  nowhere. 

The  First  Unitarian  Society  of  Salt 
Lake  City  writes  over  the  name  of 
Harold  Scott,  Pastor: 


The  literature  on  the  subject  indicates 
that  when  Jews,  Protestants,  Catholics,  and 
Mormons  intermarry,  there  are  more  diffi- 
cult adjustments  to  be  made  than  as 
though  the  contracting  parties  were  of  the 
same  faith.  .  .  . 

.  .  .  interfaith  marriages  .  .  .  mean  addi- 
tional strain  on  the  marriage  bond. 

We  wrote  to  the  Greek  Orthodox 
Church  in  New  York  City.  The  Direc- 
tor of  Public  Relations,  Mr.  Arthur 
Dore,  wrote  and  said: 

.  .  .  our  Church  .  .  .  never  encourages 
mixed  marriages  because,  speaking  from 
experience,  mixed  marriages  are  likely  to 
be  a  failure.  .  .  . 

The  Colorado  Woman's  College  re- 
cently conducted  a  discussion  for  the 
students  of  the  college  in  which  a 
Jewish  rabbi,  a  Catholic  priest,  and  a 
Protestant  minister  spoke.  Following 
this  discussion,  the  Rocky  Mountain 
News  summarized  the  information  giv- 
en in  their  issue  of  February  5,  1958, 
and  said: 

Marriage  between  people  of  different  reli- 
gious faiths  is  often  the  start  of  loss  of  faith, 
delinquency  or  divorce.  .  .  . 

The  New  York  Times  on  June  24, 
1956,  carried  an  article  entitled,  "Why 
Marriages  Go  Wrong,"  and  among  oth- 
er things  said: 

.  .  .  there  are  approximately  three  times 
as  many  divorces  or  separations  in  Catholic- 
Protestant  marriages  as  there  are  when  the 
marital  partners  are  of  the  same  faith,  and 
about  four  times  as  many  when  a  Catholic 
father  is  married  to  a  Protestant  mother. 
And  here  again  the  story  of  marital  unhap- 
piness is  far  larger  than  divorce  and  sepa- 
ration statistics  show. 

Being  further  interested  I  decided  to 
write  to  judges  in  divorce  courts  of  the 
nation,  and  went  from  New  York  to 
San  Francisco  and  Los  Angeles,  and  I 
read  only  a  few  of  the  replies  given  us 
by  these  gentlemen: 

From  the  Circuit  Court  of  Cook 
County,  Illinois  (Chicago),  Judge  B. 
Fain  Tucker  writes: 

.  .  .  there  is  an  obvious  advantage  in  the 
same  church  membership.  Dissimilarity 
of  interest  in  any  field  may  prove  a  hazard 
in  marriage.  This  is  particularly  true  with 
religion.  ...  I  believe  that  family  worship 
— family  prayers— help    tremendously  in 


106 

Sunday,  April  S 

strengthening  marriage  ties.  Family  wor- 
ship is  easier  if  both  spouses  belong  to  the 
same  church.  .  .  . 

He  goes  on  to  say: 

.  .  .  Difference  in  religion  undoubtedly 
will  aggravate  the  "in-law"  problem  where 
the  parents  of  one  or  both  spouses  are  deep- 
ly religious.  .  .  .  The  religious  training  of 
the  children  when  the  spouses  are  of  differ- 
ent churches,  is  one  of  the  most  vexing 
problems  of  all. 

Then  from  the  Superior  Court  of  San 
Francisco,  Judge  Orla  St.  Glair  writes: 

Where  the  parents  are  of  different  reli- 
gious faiths,  we  often  find  that  if  the  mar- 
riage fails  the  bitterness  over  the  religious 
problems  for  the  children  seems  to  be  all 
out  of  proportion.  ...  if  the  marriage  is  a 
failure,  this  mixed  faith  problem  is  an  ex- 
tremely vexatious  one  from  the  point  of 
view  of  the  court  trying  to  decide  custody 
and  visitation  matters. 

From  the  Supreme  Court  of  the  State 
of  New  York,  Justice  Samuel  M.  Gold 
writes: 

.  .  .  religion  does  play  a  part  in  main- 
taining a  happy  marriage  and  .  .  .  the 
chances  of  a  marriage  being  successful  are 
greater  when  young  people  marry  within 
their  own  faith. 

And  from  Denver,  Colorado,  District 
Court,  Judge  Joseph  E.  Cook  writes: 

.  .  .  interfaith  marriages  do  not  succeed 
as  well  as  between  people  of  the  same  faith; 
especially  where  children  are  involved. 

Educators  have  made  considerable  re- 
search into  this  problem.  I  quote  only 
one,  Dr.  Earl  E.  Emme,  Professor  of 
Psychology  and  Religion,  Florida 
Southern  College,  who,  on  October  16, 
1957,  addressed  an  open  meeting  of  Pi 
Gamma  Mu,  a  National  Honor  Society 
in  Social  Science.  He  listed  numerous 
reasons  why  people  of  different  reli- 
gious faiths  should  not  marry.  He  ad- 
vocated marriage  within  your  own 
church.  I  only  give  two  comments 
from  him  in  the  interest  of  time.  First, 
he  says: 

A  survey  of  representative  textbooks  used 
in  marriage  courses  [in  colleges  and  univer- 
sities] shows  that  they  all  counsel  the  stu- 
dents against  mixed  marriages. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


And  second: 


Third  Day 


The  slogan  of  religious  groups  that  "Fami- 
lies that  pray  together,  stay  together"  might 
be  restated  to  say  that  "families  that  can  do 
things  together,  plan  things  together,  stay 
together." 

"The  key  word,"  he  says,  "is  togeth- 
er." And  then  he  adds,  "The  happy- 
together  family  cannot  remain  so  if  reli- 
gion is  not  included." 

Even  the  Lord  has  spoken  on  this 
subject.  Anciently  he  asked  through  one 
of  his  prophets: 

Can  two  walk  together,  except  they  be 
agreed?  (Amos  3:3.) 

Through  Moses,  he  commanded  his 
ancient  people  to  refrain  from  marry- 
ing unbelievers.  Said  he: 

Neither  shalt  thou  make  marriages  with 
them;  thy  daughter  thou  shalt  not  give  unto 
his  son,  nor  his  daughter  shalt  thou  take 
unto  thy  son. 

For  they  will  turn  away  thy  son  from 
following  me,  ...  so  will  the  anger  of  the 
Lord  be  kindled  against  you,  .  .  .  (Deut. 
7:3-4.) 

And  the  Apostle  Paul  said: 

Be  ye  not  unequally  yoked  together  with 
unbelievers:  ...  (II  Cor.  6:14.) 

What  are  we  to  do  then?  Shall  we 
bring  upon  ourselves  the  unhappiness 
of  a  divided  household?  Shall  we  profit 
by  the  voice  of  experience  and  marry 
within  our  own  faith? 

God  lives,  it  is  true.  Christianity,  di- 
vided as  it  is,  claims  to  believe  that. 
The  gospel  is  the  way  to  peace.  This 
also  is  true  in  spite  of  the  great  divi- 
sions existing  in  modern  Christianity. 
But  Christianity  of  today  is  so  divided 
that  if  we  bring  its  conflicting  philoso- 
phies into  our  homes,  they  can  and  do 
become  a  source  of  discord  which  may 
jeopardize  the  very  foundations  of  our 
family  life. 

Then,  what  are  we  to  do?  The  obvi- 
ous answer  to  everyone  is,  marry  within 
your  own  faith.  If  you  are  a  Presby- 
terian, marry  a  Presbyterian.  If  you  are 
a  Catholic,  marry  a  Catholic.  If  you 
are  of  the  house  of  Judah,  marry  within 
your  own  faith.  If  you  are  a  Mormon, 
marry  a  Mormon. 

But  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  we  have 
something  still  further  to  say.  Not  only 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


107 


should  the  Latter-day  Saints  marry  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  but  also  the  Latter-day 
Saints  must  marry  Latter-day  Saints 
within  a  Latter-day  Saint  temple.  Just 
as  God  has  his  mode  of  baptism,  so  he 
has  his  mode  of  marriage.  Should  a 
Latter-day  Saint  ever  reject  God's  mode 
of  baptism?  Then  why  should  a  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  ever  reject  God's  mode  of 
marriage? 

Marriage  is  intended  by  the  Lord  to 
last  forever,  eternally,  as  President 
Richards  says,  "to  be  projected  out  into 
the  eternities."  That  takes  temple  mar- 
riage. It  brings  together  two  Latter- 
day  Saints  of  faith  and  devotion.  If 
they  will  be  united,  if  they  will  come 
and  participate  in  the  great  saving  bless- 
ing of  a  temple  marriage,  if  they  then 
will  live  the  gospel  and  keep  sacred  their 
marriage  covenant,  they  need  never 
worry  about  divorce  because  of  religious 


or  other  serious  differences  in  the  home, 
nor  need  they  ever  fear  that  death  it- 
self will  serve  as  a  divorce  court,  and 
break  the  bonds  which  were  made  for 
time  only. 

They  who  are  married  in  the  temple 
of  God  are  married  for  all  eternity,  ac- 
cording to  God's  mode  of  marriage. 

May  we  have  the  foresight  to  live  in 
such  a  way  that  we  may  fulfil  this  great 
commandment  of  our  Father  and  reap 
the  great  blessings  he  has  for  us,  is  my 
humble  prayer,  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  concluding  speaker  will  be  Elder 
Hugh  B.  Brown.  Elder  Mark  E.  Peter- 
sen of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  has 
just  addressed  us.  Elder  Hugh  B. 
Brown,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will 
now  speak  to  us. 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


An  ancient  prophet  gave  the  assur- 
ance that  God  would  require  nothing 
of  his  children  save  he  provided  a  way 
for  them  to  carry  out  his  command- 
ments. I  rely  on  that  promise  and  pray 
for  divine  guidance.  Speaking  of  the 
Lord  making  provision  for  the  carrying 
out  of  his  commandments,  I  am  re- 
minded that  in  ancient  days  and  in  our 
time  he  required  that  the  gospel  of  the 
kingdom  should  be  preached  to  all  the 
world.  When  this  commandment  was 
given  to  the  founders  of  the  Church, 
perhaps  it  seemed  to  be  an  insuperable 
task,  but  God  has  kept  his  promise  and 
has  made  provision  whereby  we  are 
able  to  reach  more  people  with  the  gos- 
pel in  a  few  minutes  than  our  fathers 
could  reach  in  years.  We  are  grateful 
for  the  microphone,  the  radio  and  tele- 
vision; but  these  facilities,  great  as  they 
are,  as  President  Clark  indicated  last 
night,  are  just  in  their  infancy,  and  God 
will,  in  his  own  due  time,  give  us  such 
improvements  and  amplifications  as  will 
enable  us  to  carry  out  his  great  com- 
mandment. 

We  greet  you,  our  friends  out  there 
in  the  radio  and  television  audience 
who  are  not  members  of  our  Church. 
We  join  with  Christians  everywhere,  as 


has  been  indicated  all  through  this 
conference,  in  commemorating  and  giv- 
ing thanks  to  God  for  the  resurrection 
of  the  Lord.  The  significance  of  this 
transcendent  event  was  emphasized  by 
the  Apostle  Paul  in  that  matchless  ser- 
mon recorded  in  Corinthians,  in  which, 
among  other  things,  he  said:  "And  if 
Christ  be  not  risen  [from  the  dead], 
then  is  our  preaching  vain,  and  your 
faith  is  also  vain."  (I  Cor.  15:14.) 

We  believe  that  the  greatest  story 
ever  told  in  all  the  annals  of  history  is 
the  story  of  the  atonement  of  Christ. 
The  record  of  his  resurrection  and  ascen- 
sion, without  which  the  atonement 
would  not  have  been  complete,  is  the 
climax  to  that  story;  and  now,  two  thou- 
sand years  after  the  event,  it  is  still  cen- 
tral and  pivotal  in  all  true  Christian 
thought. 

Christ  was  both  mortal  and  divine — 
mortal  through  his  mother,  Mary;  di- 
vine through  his  Father,  God — and  be- 
cause of  that  unique  combination  he 
was  able  to  yield  voluntarily  to  death 
in  order  that  through  his  divinity  he 
might  conquer  death,  break  its  bands, 
and  make  the  resurrection  possible  to 
all  men.  The  resurrection  is  not  for 
a  select  few,  nor  is  it  alone  for  believing 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  6 

Christians;  but  every  man  and  woman 
who  ever  lived  upon  earth,  or  who  ever 
shall  live  thereon,  will  be  raised  from 
the  dead. 

Paul,  the  apostle,  epitomized  the  cause 
and  consequences  of  the  atonement  in 
one  sentence:  ".  .  .  as  in  Adam  all  die, 
even  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be  made 
alive."  (Ibid.,  15:22.)  And  the  Savior 
said, 

Marvel  not  at  this:  for  the  hour  is  corn- 
ing, in  the  which  all  that  are  in  the  graves 
shall  hear  his  voice, 

And  shall  come  forth;  they  that  have  done 
good,  unto  the  resurrection  of  life;  and  they 
that  have  done  evil,  unto  the  resurrection 
of  damnation.  (John  5:28-29.) 

But  we  must  not  assume  because  of 
this  promise  that  regardless  of  what  we 
may  do  we  shall  have  exaltation  and 
eternal  life.  Those  blessings  are  re- 
served for  those  who  accept  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  and  observe  and  keep 
the  commandments  of  God. 

We  not  only  commemorate  the  resur- 
rection of  the  Lord  as  an  event  in  his- 
tory, but  we  also  recognize  it  as  a 
harbinger  of  things  to  come.  When  he 
gave  his  life  on  the  cross,  he  did  not 
indicate  that  his  interest  in  his  fellow 
men  had  ceased.  He  promised,  and  his 
apostles  predicted,  as  did  the  prophets 
of  the  Old  Testament,  that  there  should 
be  a  second  coming  of  the  Lord  when, 
as  Paul  said, 

.  .  .  the  Lord  himself  shall  descend  from 
heaven  with  a  shout,  with  the  voice  of  the 
archangel,  and  with  the  trump  of  God:  and 
the  dead  in  Christ  shall  rise  first:  (I  Thess. 
4:16.) 

But  before  his  coming  certain  things 
must  happen.  Among  them,  as  he  said 
in  answer  to  the  question  of  his  apostles 
as  to  what  should  be  the  sign  of  his 
coming  and  the  end  of  the  world,  ".  .  . 
this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall  be 
preached  in  all  the  world  for  a  witness 
unto  all  nations;  and  then  shall  the 
end  come."  (Matt.  24:14.)  It  is  signifi- 
cant that  he  said  "this  gospel  of  the 
kingdom,"  not  "a  gospel,"  or  "some 
gospel,"  but  "this  gospel."  And  the 
Apostle  Paul,  always  precise  and  zealous 
said: 

But  though  we,  or  an  angel  from  heaven, 
preach  any  other  gospel  unto  you  than  that 


Third  Day 

which  we  have  preached  unto  you,  let  him 
be  accursed.  (Gal.  1:8.) 

And  still  there  are  some  who  say  it 
matters  little  or  not  at  all  which  church 
one  joins,  which  gospel  one  preaches, 
whether  it  be  the  gospel  of  Luther, 
Knox,  or  Calvin,  whether  one  belongs 
to  the  Roman  or  Greek  Catholic 
Church,  to  one  of  the  numerous 
protestant  denominations,  or  to  some 
group  which  emphasizes  some  one  as- 
pect of  the  gospel  such  as  faith  healing, 
mode  of  baptism,  which  day  is  the  Sab- 
bath, etc.  Unfortunately  the  world  is 
faced  with  a  variety  of  religious  de- 
nominations which  in  some  measure 
neutralize  each  others'  influence  in  the 
minds  of  people. 

The  question  then  arises,  "Where 
shall  we  find  that  gospel?"  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
makes  certain  definite  statements  with 
respect  to  what  the  gospel  is.  A  com- 
mission was  appointed  in  England  re- 
cently by  the  Archbishops  of  Canterbury 
and  York  to  make  a  complete  survey 
of  modern  evangelism,  and  they  were 
asked  to  seek  and  discover  if  they  could 
the  causes  for  the  wide  and  deep  gulf 
that  exists  between  the  church  and  the 
people.  This  commission  in  the  pre- 
amble to  their  report,  emphasized  the 
irrelevance  of  the  church  in  the  life 
and  thought  of  the  community  in 
general. 

The  most  arresting  observation  made 
by  the  commission  was,  "We  believe 
that  the  tendency  to  preach  another 
gospel,  or  a  partial  gospel,  has  been  the 
weakness  (not  to  say  the  sin)  of  the 
church."  This  observation  reminds  us 
of  Paul's  warning  and  anathema  which 
for  emphasis  he  repeated: 

As  we  said  before,  so  say  I  now  again,  IF 
any  man  preach  any  other  gospel  unto  you 
than  that  ye  have  received,  let  him  be  ac- 
cursed. (Ibid.,  1:9.) 

What  gospel  did  Paul  preach?  All 
will  agree  that  he  was  converted  to  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  now  taught  in 
the  New  Testament  through  personal 
communication  and  instruction.  He  be- 
came one  of  its  chief  exponents,  most 
effective  and  fearless  defenders,  and 
finally  one  of  its  martyrs.  Many  are 
asking,  "Where  can  one  find  a  church 
which  teaches  the  gospel  as  Paul  taught 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


109 


it?"  Any  search  for  the  true  gospel 
leads  at  once  to  the  matter  of  origin  and 
authority. 

In  a  brief  consideration  of  that  sub- 
ject we  shall  not  challenge  the  claims 
of  other  churches  unless  our  claim  that 
we  have  the  gospel  is  taken  as  a  chal- 
lenge. The  Catholic  Church  bases  its 
claims  to  authority  on  the  long  line 
of  apostolic  succession.  Many  of  the 
other  churches  began  with  a  protest 
against  or  an  attempted  reformation  of 
the  so-called  mother  church.  As  the 
great  reformers  failed  to  change  or  re- 
form the  false  teachings  and  undesir- 
able conditions  they  claimed  to  have 
discovered,  and  as  they  were  successively 
excommunicated,  some  of  them  under- 
took to  establish  new  churches  without 
claiming  new  revelation  or  authoritative 
ordination. 

The  restored  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
does  not  base  its  claim  to  authority  on 
apostolic  succession,  nor  did  it  begin 
with  a  protest  against  or  attempt  to  re- 
form other  churches.  Furthermore,  this 
Church  did  not  have  its  beginning  in 
scholarly  analysis  of  the  gospel  as  taught 
in  the  Bible.  Its  founder,  at  the  time 
of  his  first  vision,  did  not  claim  to  be 
a  profound  student  of  theology,  and  he! 
knew  little  of  the  writings  of  the  early 
church  fathers.  His  message  came  as 
a  direct  revelation  from  heaven. 

We  say  humbly  but  fearlessly  that 
the  restored  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is 
the  divinely  inspired  way  of  life,  the 
plan  of  salvation.  It  is  the  gospel  of 
the  kingdom  of  which  Jesus  spoke.  It 
is,  as  was  its  prototype  in  the  Meridian 
of  Time,  the  fulness  of  the  everlasting 
and  unchangeable  gospel,  the  very  power 
of  God  unto  salvation,  the  everlasting 
gospel  which,  through  angelic  minis- 
tration in  the  latter  days,  was,  accord- 
ing to  John  the  beloved,  to  be  carried 
to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue,  and 
people. 

Some  express  amazement  and  dis- 
belief when  we  claim  that  the  restora- 
tion began  with  a  vision  of  heavenly 
beings  and  revelations  from  God.  These 
claims  should  not  be  thought  incredible 
to  anyone  who  believes  in  the  Holy 
Bible,  for  such  events  were  standard 
procedure  in  both  the  Old  and  New 
Testaments. 

Mormonism  is  a  message  of  glad  tid- 


ings to  all  people,  a  glorious  declaration 
that  the  prophecies  recorded  in  both 
Old  and  New  Testaments  concerning 
the  latter  days  have  been  and  are  being 
fulfilled.  It  is  an  announcement  that 
the  God  of  heaven  has  set  up  a  king- 
dom as  predicted  by  Daniel.  It  is  a 
proclamation  that  the  times  of  refresh- 
ing have  come  from  the  presence  of  the 
Lord,  when  there  is  to  be  a  restitution 
of  all  things  which  God  has  spoken 
by  the  mouths  of  all  his  holy  prophets 
since  the  world  began  as  predicted  by 
Peter.  (Acts  3:19-21.)  We  humbly  and 
gratefully  announce  the  opening  of  the 
Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times 
in  which,  as  promised  by  Paul,  all 
things  are  to  be  gathered  together  in 
Christ,  both  which  are  in  heaven  and 
which  are  on  earth.  (Eph.  1:10.) 

The  above  scriptures  concerning  the 
restoration  refer  to  the  whole  gospel. 
We  think  neither  individuals  nor  groups 
of  men,  under  whatever  title,  are  justi- 
fied in  their  attempts  to  pick  and  choose 
between  particular  aspects  of  the  whole 
gospel.  We  profoundly  dissent  from 
the  opinion  that  there  is  an  element  in 
the  message  which  changes  with  vary- 
ing conditions.  The  message  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  is  that  there  has  been  a  restora- 
tion of  the  identical  gospel  which  Jesus 
taught  and  which  the  apostles  preached 
at  his  command.  It  is  a  gospel  of  glad 
tidings  of  great  joy,  a  gospel  of  hope 
and  saving  power  as  was  enjoyed  by 
members  of  the  Church  in  the  days  of 
the  Savior  and  his  apostles. 

The  restored  gospel  is  also  a  warning 
of  judgment  to  come,  a  judgment  which 
is  neither  fiction  nor  superstition  but 
is  a  tremendous  and  solemn  truth,  when 
all  that  is  found  valueless  or  out  of 
harmony  with  the  purposes  of  God  must 
be  abolished. 

Some  may  not  understand  how  this 
message  of  good  news  can  include  a 
warning  of  judgment  to  come,  but  judg- 
ment is  integral  to  the  gospel.  It  is 
the  assertion  of  the  final  triumph  of 
good  and  the  abolition  of  evil. 

While  the  Church,  which  was  organ- 
ized under  divine  direction,  is  the  king- 
dom of  God  on  earth,  its  membership 
consists  of  men  and  women  who  are  not 
yet  made  perfect.  It  is  a  mixed  society 
with  an  international  complexion,  sub- 


110 

Sunday,  April  6 

ject  in  varying  degrees  to  the  weaknesses 
of  humanity.  It  does  not  claim  to  be  a 
picture  gallery  where  every  portrait  is 
a  masterpiece;  therefore,  Church  mem- 
bership requires  continued  tolerance, 
charity,  and  love  of  fellow  men. 

We  do  not  claim  to  have  achieved 
perfection;  we  often  fall  short  of  our 
ideals;  but  with  additional  revelations 
from  the  Lord,  and  with  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  to  help  us,  we  hope  it  may 
be  said  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  what  Peter  said 
to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  former- 
day  Saints: 

But  ye  are  a  chosen  generation,  a  royal 
priesthood,  an  holy  nation,  a  peculiar  peo- 
ple; that  ye  should  shew  forth  the  praises 
of  him  who  hath  called  you  out  of  dark- 
ness into  his  marvellous  light:  (I  Peter 
2:9.) 

We  look  upon  the  restoration  and  the 
second  coming  of  Christ  as  sequels  to 
the  resurrection.  We  believe  that  a 
full  understanding  of  the  significance 
of  the  resurrection  must  include  con- 
sideration of  and  belief  in  his  second 
coming  which,  as  he  himself  declared, 
must  be  preceded  by  the  preaching  of 
the  gospel  of  the  kingdom  to  all  the 
world. 

There  are  those  who  wonder  at  our 
assurance,  and  sometimes  they  say  our 
presumption — as  we  make  such  posi- 
tive and  definite  statements,  but  we  ask 
you,  our  friends:  If  you  knew  of  a  reve- 
lation from  God,  and  knew  it  to  be  a 
revelation,  would  you  equivocate  or 
water  it  down,  or  be  afraid  to  defend  it, 
or  assert  it?  In  my  opinion,  no  greater 
message  has  come  to  this  world  since 
the  angel  standing  at  the  open  tomb 
said:  "He  is  not  here;  he  is  risen."  (See 
Mark  16:6.) 

The  announcement  of  the  Church 
today,  and  let  all  people  heed  as  they 
hear,  is  that  this  same  Jesus  has  ap- 
peared again,  established  his  kingdom, 
organized  his  Church  with  apostles  and 
prophets,  and  set  in  motion  a  great 
missionary  system  by  which  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  shall  be  carried  to  all 
the  world  as  a  witness,  and  then  the 
end  shall  come. 

Humbly  I  bear  my  testimony  to  you, 
my  friends,  and  brothers  and  sisters, 
that  from  the  center  of  my  heart  to  the 
ends  of  my  fingers  and  toes  I  know 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
Living  God.  I  know  that  he  came  forth 
from  the  tomb  with  his  body,  which  he 
displayed  to  his  disciples,  and  invited 
them  to  feel  of  the  wounds.  I  know 
that  he  has  spoken  again.  I  know  that 
the  gospel  has  been  restored  to  the 
earth.  If  this  message  be  true,  it  should 
be  heard  and  heeded  by  all  men  every- 
where, for  it  has  in  it  the  saving  prin- 
ciples of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ. 

I  leave  this  testimony  with  you,  and 
thank  God  that  he  has  given  it  to  me, 
and  pray  that  I  may  be  able  to  live  so 
as  to  come  back  into  his  presence,  and 
I  remind  all  of  you  that  any  of  us  may 
come  into  his  presence  when  our  con- 
duct has  been  such  that  we  can  feel  at 
home  there. 

God  bless  us  to  that  end  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  been  our  concluding 
speaker.  You  who  attend  regularly 
notice  that  we  omitted  some  matters 
in  the  opening  of  this  session  on  Easter 
morning.  We  should  like  to  refer  to 
some  conditions  for  which  we  are  very 
appreciative.  At  the  conclusion  of  the 
sixth  session  of  this  Conference  we  ex- 
press our  sincere  appreciation  to  the 
owners  and  managers  of  the  many  tele- 
vision and  radio  stations  who  have  of- 
fered their  facilities  to  us  last  evening 
and  this  morning.  Television  sets  have 
been  open  on  the  Coast  and  all  around 
since  the  opening  of  this  session.  We 
are  grateful  for  the  wonderful  public 
service  thus  so  generously  extended. 

We  would  like  you  friends  to  know 
too,  and  our  leaders  in  social,  political, 
and  educational  circles,  that  we  are 
grateful  for  your  attendance  at  these 
sessions,  and  particularly  this  morning 
those  who  have  been  in  the  Tabernacle, 
in  the  Assembly  Hall,  and  Barratt  Hall, 
and  other  places.  We  have  asked  for 
your  names,  and  I  am  sure  people  will 
be  pleased  to  know  that  we  have  had 
here  this  morning  our  Governor,  George 
Dewey  Clyde;  Judge  Christensen  of  the 
United  States  District  Court;  our  own 
Ezra  Taft  Benson,  member  of  the 
Twelve  and  in  the  Cabinet  of  President 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


111 


Eisenhower;  Senator  Arthur  V.  Watkins; 
Senator  Wallace  F.  Bennett;  Congress- 
men Henry  Aldous  Dixon  and  William 
A.  Dawson;  LaMont  Toronto,  Secretary 
of  State;  Adiel  F.  Stewart,  Mayor  of  Salt 
Lake  City;  Ernest  L.  Wilkinson,  presi- 
dent of  the  Brigham  Young  University, 
who  was  with  us  with  his  Chorus  on 
Friday;  Dr.  William  P.  Miller,  presi- 
dent of  Weber  College;  J.  Elliot  Camer- 
on, director  of  Snow  College;  Arthur 
F.  Bruhn,  president  of  Dixie  College; 
E.  Allen  Bateman,  State  Superintendent 
of  Public  Instruction;  M.  Lynn  Beji- 
nion,  Superintendent  of  Salt  Lake  City 
Schools;  Dr.  A.  Ray  Olpin,  president 
of  the  University  of  Utah;  and  un- 
doubtedly others. 

It  means  much — this  spirit  of  co- 
operation on  Easter  morning,  your 
presence  during  the  hour  of  worship, 
reaching  all  classes  of  people.  We  want 
you  to  know  that  we  are  not  unmindful 
of  its  effect. 

We  have  present  also  the  stake  presi- 
dencies, bishoprics,  temple  presidencies, 
general  auxiliary  officers.  We  have  the 
mission  presidencies,  who  can  reach  us 
by  means  of  transportation — the  United 
States,  Mexico,  Central  America,  Can- 
ada, and  Hawaii.  We  extend  a  cordial 
welcome  to  all  of  you.  It  is  glorious 
to  meet  with  you  and  have  you  partake 
of  the  spirit  of  the  General  Conference, 
and  let  us  partake  of  your  spirit  and 
your  presence  here. 

Now  that  we  are  in  touch  with  the 
Coast  we  desire  to  mention  again  the 
flowers  which  decorate  this  building. 
The  daffodils  were  sent  to  us  from  the 
Puyallup  Valley  Daffodil  Festival,  Inc. 
through  the  Tacoma  Stake.  The  calla 
lilies  were  sent  to  us  by  the  high  priests 
quorum  of  the  Oakland-Berkeley  Stake. 
The  sweet  peas  were  sent  by  the  In- 
dian children  of  the  Fort  McDowell, 
Arizona  Indian  Reservation.  We  ex- 
press our  deep  appreciation  to  these 
three  groups  for  their  thoughtfulness 
in  sending  these  beautiful  flowers  for 
our  enjoyment  during  the  Conference 
sessions. 

At  7:30  o'clock  this  morning  Elder 


Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  was  the  speaker  on  the  Colum- 
bia Broadcasting  System's  Church  of 
the  Air  program.  The  music  for  this 
service  was  furnished  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  under  the  direction  of  Richard 
P.  Condie. 

We  desire  to  mention  the  General 
Priesthood  Meeting  which  was  the  fifth 
session  of  this  General  Conference.  This 
meeting  was  held  in  the  Salt  Lake  Tab- 
ernacle, with  overflow  meetings  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall.  The 
proceedings  were  relayed  by  closed  cir- 
cuit to  members  of  the  Priesthood  as- 
sembled in  128  Church  buildings  from 
Coast  to  Coast  and  in  Canada.  It  is 
undoubtedly  the  largest  General  Priest- 
hood Meeting  ever  held  in  the  Church 
— 45,154  Priesthood  members  in  at- 
tendance. 

The  singing  for  this  morning's  ses- 
sion, I  repeat,  has  been  furnished  by 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ,  and  under  the 
direction  of  Richard  P.  Condie.  We 
express  appreciation  to  these  men  and 
women  who  give  so  generously  of  their 
time  and  talents,  and  are  working  so 
earnestly  to  lift  the  standards  of  this 
great  organization.  They  will  conclude 
this  service  now  by  singing,  "Listen  to 
the  Lambs,"  following  which  Elder 
Eben  R.  T.  Blomquist,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  Swedish  Mission,  will  offer 
the  closing  prayer. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  an- 
them, "Listen  to  the  Lambs." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

After  the  benediction  by  President 
Eben  R.  T.  Blomquist,  this  Conference 
will  be  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  this 
afternoon. 

Elder  Eben  R.  T.  Blomquist,  formerly 
president  of  the  Swedish  Mission,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


112 

Sunday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


Third  Day 


The  concluding  session  of  the  Con- 
ference convened  in  the  Tabernacle  at 
2:00  p.m.,  Sunday,  April  6,  with  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay  presiding  and 
conducting  the  services. 

The  choral  music  for  this  session  was 
furnished  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square,  Salt  Lake  City,  in  the  conclud- 
ing session  of  the  One  Hundred 
Twenty-Eighth  Annual  Conference  of 
the  Church.  For  those  who  are  unable 
to  enter  the  building  we  announce  that 
these  services  are  being  broadcast  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall 
over  television.  The  music  for  this 
session  will  be  rendered  by  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir,  Richard  P.  Condie  con- 
ducting, Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 
We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  singing,  "I  Waited 
For  The  Lord,"  with  Jay  E.  Welch 
conducting.  Brother  Welch  is  As- 
sistant Conductor  of  the  Choir.  The 
opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
William  Franz  Perschon,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  Swiss-Austrian  Mission. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang,  "I  Waited 
for  the  Lord,"  Jay  E.  Welch  conduct- 
ing. 

Elder  William  Franz  Perschon,  for- 
merly president  of  the  Swiss-Austrian 
Mission,  offered  the  invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  just  offered  was  by 
President  William  Franz  Perschon, 
formerly  president  of  the  Swiss-Aus- 
trian Mission.    The  Tabernacle  Choir 


will  now  sing,  "Angelic  Choir,"  with 
Jessie  Evans  Smith  as  soloist,  conducted 
by  Richard  P.  Condie.  After  the  sing- 
ing, President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of 
the  First  Presidency  will  present  the 
General  Authorities,  General  Officers, 
and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the 
Church  for  the  sustaining  vote  of  this 
General  Conference. 

A  musical  selection,  "Angelic  Choir," 
was  sung  by  the  Choir,  Richard  P.  Con- 
die conducting,  Jessie  Evans  Smith 
soloist. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  of 
the  First  Presidency  will  now  present 
the  General  Authorities,  General  Offi- 
cers, and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of 
the  Church  for  the  sustaining  vote  of  the 
General  Conference,  after  which  Elder 
Delbert  L.  Stapley  will  speak  to  us. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  by  assign- 
ment of  President  McKay  I  present  to 
you  for  your  sustaining  vote  the  General 
Authorities  and  General  Officers  of  the 
Church.  I  repeat  what  I  think  I  have 
said  on  several  occasions:  this  is  not  a 
pro-forma  matter.  By  the  raising  of 
your  hands  you  covenant  with  the  Lord 
to  sustain  the  Officers  in  their  offices 
and  callings  for  which  you  vote. 

President  Clark  then  presented  for 
the  sustaining  vote  of  the  people  the 
General  Authorities,  General  Officers, 
and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the 
Church,  who  were  presented  and  sus- 
tained in  the  following  order: 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Stephen  L  Richards,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 


113 


President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Delbert  L.  Stapley 

Harold  B.  Lee  Marion  G.  Romney 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  LeGrand  Richards 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Richard  L.  Evans 

Mark  E.  Petersen  George  Q.  Morris 

Henry  D.  Moyle  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Patriarch 
to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Clifford  E.  Young  Sterling  W.  Sill 

Alma  Sonne  Gordon  B.  Hinckley 

EIRay  L.  Christiansen  Henry  D.  Taylor 

John  Longden 

Trustee-in-Trust 
David  O.  McKay 

Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Marion  D.  Hanks 

Seymour  Dilworth  Young  Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 

Milton  R.  Hunter 

Presiding  Bishopric 

Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presiding  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  First  Counselor 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  and  Preston  Nibley  as  Assistants. 

Church  Board  of  Education 

David  O.  McKay  Henry  D.  Moyle 

Stephen  L  Richards  Delbert  L.  Stapley 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Marion  G.  Romney 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  LeGrand  Richards 

Harold  B.  Lee  Richard  L.  Evans 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  George  Q.  Morris 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Hugh  B.  Brown 
Mark  E.  Petersen 

Administrator,  Board  of  Education 

Ernest  L.  Wilkinson 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  6  Third  Day 

Church  Auditing  Commitee 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Harold  H.  Bennett 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Conductor 
Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Conductor 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisers 

Harold  B.  Lee  EIRay  L.  Christiansen 

Henry  D.  Moyle  John  Longden 

Delbert  L.  Stapley  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Marion  G.  Romney  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

LeGrand  Richards  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

Clifford  E.  Young  Carl  W.  Buehner 

Alma  Sonne 

and  the  General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

General  Church  Welfare  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 
Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 
Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 
Paul  C.  Child  Lorenzo  H.  Hatch 

Mark  B.  Garff  Walter  Dansie 

Leonard  E.  Adams  LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 

J.  Leonard  Love  Walter  Stover 

William  T.  Lawrence  A.  Lewis  Elggren 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 
Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Helen  Woodruff  Anderson,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 
David  Lawrence  McKay,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Lynn  S.  Richards,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

We  are  releasing  the  present  Superintendency,  Elbert  R.  Curtis,  A.  Walter 
Stevenson,  and  David  S.  King,  and  the  General  Board  of  the  Young  Men's  Mutual 
Improvement  Association,  with  the  understanding  that  they  will  continue  to 
function  as  now  until  the  end  of  the  next  June  Conference,  when  the  new  Superin- 
tendency and  Board  will  assume  the  duties  and  responsibilities  of  heading  this 
great  organization.   It  is  proposed  that  we  extend  to  these  brethren  who  are  now 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


115 


released  a  vote  of  appreciation  for  their  many  years  of  meritorious  service.  All  who 
favor  this  proposal  will  please  indicate  it. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  as  the  new  Superintendent,  Joseph  T.  Bentley. 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Bertha  S.  Reeder,  President 
Emily  H.  Bennett,  First  Counselor 
LaRue  C.  Longden,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Primary  Association 

LaVern  W.  Parmley,  President 
Arta  M.  Hale,  First  Counselor 
Leone  W.  Doxey,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

President  McKay,  so  far  as  I  was  able 
to  determine  the  vote  was  unanimous  in 
the  affirmative  on  all  of  the  recom- 
mendations. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  heard  President  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the  First  Presi- 


dency present  the  General  Authorities, 
General  Officers,  and  General  Auxiliary 
Officers  of  the  Church.  We  thank  you, 
brethren  and  sisters,  for  your  unani- 
mous votes  in  the  affirmative.  Elder 
Delbert  L.  Stapley  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  will  be  our  next  speaker. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Albert 
Theodore  Tuttle  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy. 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brothers  and  sisters  and  friends, 
I  should  like  to  express  my  appreciation 
for  the  Brethren  sustained  among  the 
group  of  General  Authorities  with  all 
my  heart.  I  welcome  them  in  these 
new  positions.  I  know  each  personally 
for  his  faith,  devotion,  and  dedication 
to  the  great  cause  of  the  Lord.  I  pledge 
to  them  my  faith,  my  prayers,  and  my 
help. 

This  has  been  a  great  spiritual  confer- 
ence with  choice,  enlightening  messages. 
I  hope  my  message  will  not  detract  from 
this  sacred  day  and  the  important  event 
we  commemorate,  the  resurrection  of  our 
Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ. 

Often  in  conversation  with  devout 
and  sincere  men  not  of  our  faith,  the 
subject  of  religion  routinely  comes  up  as 
an  important  and  interesting  topic  for 
discussion.  After  answering  questions 
and  supplying  information  about  the 
restored  Church  of  Christ,  also  follow- 
ing an  exchange  of  doctrinal  beliefs,  the 
friendly  discussion  usually  terminates 
with  their  saying  something  like  this: 


"We  are  all  God's  children;  therefore, 
it  makes  no  difference  to  which  church 
a  person  belongs;  we  are  all  working 
for  the  same  place."  Then,  apparently 
without  profound  thinking,  they  add: 
"There  are  many  roads  to  get  to  heav- 
en; therefore,  it  does  not  matter  which 
road  we  take,  we  will  all  end  up  in 
God's  presence." 

This  man-made  philosophy — for  such 
it  is — sounds  good,  but  the  scriptures 
do  not  support  it.  I  assure  each  of  you 
that  the  road  to  God's  presence  is  not 
that  easy.  I  feel  certain  that  the  devil 
chuckles  whenever  this  false  opinion  is 
expressed,  for  it  pleases  him  that  the 
minds  of  men  have  been  so  blinded  to 
revealed  truth  by  his  cunning  craftiness 
and  deceit  that  they  will  believe  any 
religion  to  be  acceptable  to  God  regard- 
less of  its  tenets  and  ordinances  or  how 
or  by  whom  those  ordinances  are  admin- 
istered. 

Occasionally,  to  justify  or  bolster 
their  Christian  belief  and  church  allegi- 
ance, men  will  simply  say,  "We  admire 


116 

Sunday,  April  S 

your  church,  but  you  agree,  do  you  not, 
that  although  of  different  faiths  we 
are  all  striving  for  the  same  goals?" 
True,  we  are,  but  to  me  this  statement 
evidences  an  uncertainty  and  lack  of 
personal  assurance  of  the  Tightness  of 
their  convictions  and  church  member- 
ship, because  the  conversation  had 
neither  solicited  nor  suggested  any  ex- 
planation of  their  religious  choice. 

Recently  a  father  wrote  an  unchris- 
tianlike  letter  to  his  son,  who,  after 
prayerful  study,  gave  up  the  church  of 
his  parents,  in  which  he  had  been  most 
active,  to  join  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  father,  ap- 
parently suffering  from  a  vain  and  in- 
jured false  pride,  used  this  argument  as 
one  of  many,  which  were  most  unfair 
and  bitter,  in  order  to  win  his  son  back 
to  the  church  of  his  youth  and  young 
manhood:  (I  quote  from  his  letter.) 
"My  father  often  told  us  that  if  we  lived 
by  God's  Ten  Commandments  and  the 
Golden  Rule  every  minute  that  we 
were  awake,  we  would  have  all  the  reli- 
gion we  needed  to  live  a  good,  whole- 
some, and  righteous  life  on  this  earth, 
thereby  pleasing  God  and  reaping  our 
rewards  in  heaven."  And  then  he  quoted 
a  noted  evangelist  of  our  day  as  say- 
ing, "There  is  no  true  church,"  and  the 
father  added,  "I  believe  the  same." 

No  one  will  deny  the  everlasting  im- 
portance of  the  Ten  Commandments. 
They  are  as  binding  today  upon  man- 
kind as  they  were  at  the  time  God  gave 
them  to  Moses  upon  Mount  Sinai.  Also, 
the  Golden  Rule  today  is  basic  to  our 
Christian  way  of  life.  However,  this 
father,  like  so  many  others,  is  blinded 
in  his  concept  of  what  true  religion  is 
and  what  it  requires  of  an  individual. 
Many  people,  no  doubt,  would  agree 
with  the  statement  attributed  to  the 
evangelist,  that  there  is  "no  true 
church."  Many  others  would  not  be 
certain  because  of  the  confusion  caused 
by  so  many  churches  all  claiming  to  be 
right.  I  testify  in  all  sincerity  and 
humility  that  the  true  Church  of  Christ 
is  upon  the  earth,  and  every  person,  in 
the  interest  of  his  salvation  and  exalta- 
tion, is  duty  bound  to  find  it  and  to 
obey  its  way  of  life. 

A  few  months  ago  I  saw  a  large  1957 
calendar  hanging  on  a  church  wall  with 
this  caption  in  bold  letters,  challenging 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

all  who  looked  upon  it  to  "Go  to 
Church  Sunday,"  followed  with  this 
message:  "I'll  go  to  my  Church,  you 
go  to  yours,  but  let  us  walk  together." 
How  can  people  going  to  different 
churches  of  divergent  faiths,  doctrines, 
and  tenets,  walk  together  in  understand- 
ing and  peace  when  they  disagree  on 
basic  Christian  principles  and  true  gos- 
pel teachings  and  faith  concepts?  Does 
not  walking  together  imply  agreement, 
unity  of  faith,  and  oneness  of  purpose? 

The  Lord,  reasoning  with  the  chil- 
dren of  Israel  because  of  their  wayward- 
ness and  failure  to  follow  the  prophets, 
declared  to  them  through  the  Prophet 
Amos: 

You  only  have  I  known  of  all  the  families 
of  the  earth:  therefore  I  will  punish  you  for 
all  your  iniquities. 

Can  two  walk  together,  except  they  be 
agreed?    (Amos  3:2-3.) 

A  great  and  important  lesson  is  taught 
in  this  scripture;  namely,  that  we  should 
walk  together,  agreed  in  faith  and  doc- 
trine with  the  Lord.  Is  not  that  ad- 
monition and  counsel  just  as  applicable 
today  to  the  people  of  the  world  as  it 
was  in  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Amos? 

It  was  the  Apostle  Paul,  writing  to  the 
Ephesian  saints,  who  taught  the  "one 
Lord,  one  faith,  one  baptism"  doctrine, 
and  also  testified  to  them  that  Christ 

.  .  .  gave  some,  apostles;  and  some, 
prophets;  and  some,  evangelists;  and  some, 
pastors   and  teachers; 

For  the  perfecting  of  the  saints,  for  the 
work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  edifying  of  the 
body  of  Christ: 

Till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of  the  faith, 
and  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Son  of  God, 
unto  a  perfect  man,  unto  the  measure  of 
the  stature  of  the  fulness  of  Christ: 

That  we  henceforth  be  no  more  children, 
tossed  to  and  fro,  and  carried  about  with 
every  wind  of  doctrine,  by  the  sleight  of 
men,  and  cunning  craftiness,  whereby  they 
lie  in  wait  to  deceive;  .  .  ."    (Eph.  4:11-14.) 

These  officers,  since  the  days  of  Christ, 
are  and  always  will  be  in  the  true 
Church  of  Christ  as  long  as  the  earth 
shall  stand. 

With  the  multiplicity  of  churches  in 
the  world  today  all  claiming  the  right 
way,  and  so  many  yielding  to  the  gen- 
erally accepted  opinion  that  all  roads 
or  churches  lead  to  eternal  life,  how 
important  it  is  that  these  officers  of  the 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


117 


true  Church  of  Christ,  enumerated  by 
the  Apostle  Paul,  reveal  light  and  truth 
in  the  midst  of  confusion  and  darkness 
of  teaching,  to  guide  mankind  unerring- 
ly to  the  safe  harbor  of  God's  everlast- 
ing kingdom. 

If  truth  is  consistent,  and  I  testify  it 
is,  can  there  be  more  than  one  true  way 
to  God  and  eternal  life?  The  Savior 
said  to  the  Jews  who  believed  on  him: 

...  If  ye  continue  in  ray  word,  then  are 
ye  my  disciples  indeed; 

And  ye  shall  know  the  truth,  and  the 
truth  shall  make  you  free.  (John  8:31-32.) 

A  man  cannot  truly  be  free  who  is 
handicapped  by  false  tradition,  false 
teachings,  error,  and  a  lack  of  true 
knowledge  that  saves. 

Among  the  eternal  truths  taught  by 
our  Redeemer  in  his  great  Sermon  on 
the  Mount  is  this  important  and  chal- 
lenging obligation:  ".  .  .  seek  ye  first 
the  kingdom  of  God,  and  his  righteous- 
ness; .  .  ."  (Matt.  6:33.)  The  Lord 
specified  a  certain  kingdom,  not  many 
kingdoms  or  any  kingdom,  but  only 
God's  kingdom.  It  is  the  gospel  of  this 
kingdom  that  the  Lord  declared,  when 
outlining  the  signs  and  events  that 
would  precede  his  second  coming,  was  to 
be  preached  in  all  the  world  as  a  witness 
unto  all  nations  before  the  end  should 
come.  (See  ibid.,  24:14.)  The  duty, 
therefore,  of  every  man  is  to  search 
honestly  and  sincerely  in  faith  until  he 
finds  God's  kingdom  and  yields  obedi- 
ence to  its  full  requirements. 

When  Thomas  asked  the  Lord,  ".  .  . 
how  can  we  know  the  way?"  the  Savior 
answered,  "I  am  the  way,  the  truth,  and 
the  life:  no  man  cometh  unto  the  Father, 
but  by  me."  (John  14:5-6.)  Thomas  did 
not  ask  his  Lord  what  different  ways 
could  be  chosen  or  taken,  nor  did  the 
Savior  reveal  more  than  one  way  or 
plan  by  which  eternal  life  can  be  ob- 
tained. He  presented  the  plan  he  re- 
ceived from  his  Father,  for  he  declared: 

"My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  hut  his  that 
sent  me. 

If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall 
know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God, 
or  whether  I  speak  of  myself."  (Ibid.,  7:16- 
17.) 

When  Christ  ministered  among  men, 
he  did  not  accept  the  sects  of  the  Phari- 


sees and  Sadducees,  but  admonished  his 
listeners  to  beware  of  their  doctrine. 
(Matt.  16:12.)  He  called  them  blind 
guides  and  referred  to  them,  with  the 
scribes,  as  hypocrites  who  built  the 
tombs  of  the  prophets;  .  .  .  compared 
them  unto  whited  sepulchres  and  said 
they  omitted  the  weightier  matters  of 
the  law.  (Ibid.,  23:23-31.)  The  Phar- 
isees believed  in  the  resurrection  of  man, 
but  the  Sadducees  did  not  accept  this 
doctrinal  belief.  Both  could  not  be 
right. 

Just  as  the  Judah  kingdom  of  the 
house  of  Israel  had  departed  from  the 
right  way  into  error  and  apostasy  be- 
cause of  tradition  and  false  teachings, 
even  so  today  many  people  are  in  spirit- 
ual darkness  because  they  do  not  have 
the  light  of  truth  found  in  the  true 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

It  was  not  the  purpose  and  calling  of 
Christ's  apostles  anciently  to  convert 
and  permit  people  to  join  any  church, 
but  only  the  true  church  that  Christ 
had  established  among  men.  The  Apos- 
tle Paul,  addressing  himself  to  the 
Corinthian  saints,  warned  them  by  say- 
ing: 

Now  I  beseech  you,  brethren,  by  the  name 
of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  ye  all  speak 
the  same  thing,  and  that  there  be  no  divi- 
sions among  you;  but  that  ye  be  perfectly 
joined  together  in  the  same  mind  and  in 
the  same  judgment.  (I  Cor.  1:10.) 

He  then  calls  attention  to  reports  that 
there  were  contentions  among  them  and 
asks,  "Is  Christ  divided?"  Later  in  this 
same  epistle  he  refers  to  himself  as  a 
wise  master-builder  and  states: 

...  I  have  laid  the  foundation,  and  an- 
other buildeth  thereon.  But  let  every  man 
take  heed  how  he  buildeth  thereupon. 

For  other  foundation  can  no  man  lay 
than  that  is  laid,  which  is  Jesus  Christ. 

Every  man's  work  shall  be  made  manifest: 
for  the  day  shall  declare  it,  because  it  shall 
be  revealed  by  fire;  and  the  fire  shall  try 
every  man's  work  of  what  sort  it  is.  (Ibid., 
3:10-11,  13.) 

Writing  to  the  Galatian  saints,  Paul 
was  just  as  emphatic.  He  said  to  them: 

I  marvel  that  ye  are  so  soon  removed 
from  him  that  called  you  into  the  grace  of 
Christ  unto  another  gospel: 

Which  is  not  another;  but  there  be  some 


118 

Sunday,  April  6 

that  trouble  you,  and  would  pervert  the 
gospel  of  Christ. 

Doesn't  this  statement  describe  re- 
ligious conditions  in  our  day  and  time? 
Paul  continued  by  declaring: 

But  though  we  or  an  angel  from  heaven, 
preach  any  other  gospel  unto  you  than  that 
which  we  have  preached  unto  you,  let  him 
be  accursed. 

And  then  to  re-emphasize  it,  Paul 
repeated: 

As  we  said  before,  so  say  I  now  again,  If 
any  man  preach  any  other  gospel  unto  you 
than  that  ye  have  received,  let  him  be  ac- 
cursed. (Gal.  1:6-9.) 

Does  not  this  scripture  clearly  reveal 
that  there  is  only  one  true  gospel  plan? 

Luke,  the  physician,  recording  the 
historic  events  that  occurred  on  the 
Day  of  Pentecost,  proudly  relates: 

Then  they  that  gladly  received  his  word 
were  baptized:  .  .  . 

And  they  continued  stedfastly  in  the  apos- 
tles' doctrine  and  fellowship,  .  .  . 

And  the  multitude  of  them  that  believed 
were  of  one  heart  and  of  one  soul.  (Acts 
2:41-42;  4:32.) 

When  Jesus  was  taken  before  Pilate 
to  be  judged  of  him,  he  said  to  Pilate, 
"Every  one  that  is  of  the  truth  heareth 
my  voice."  (John  18:37.) 

Again,  when  he  was  in  Jerusalem  at 
the  Feast  of  Dedication,  he  answered 
certain  Jews  who  gathered  about  him 
wanting  to  know  if  he  was  the  Christ, 
by  saying, 

My  sheep  hear  my  voice,  and  I  know 
them,  and  they  follow  me: 

And  I  give  unto  them  eternal  life.  .  .  . 
(Ibid.,  10:27-28.) 

How  can  people  truly  hear  and  know 
the  voice  of  their  Shepherd  and  become 
so  confused  in  understanding  his  teach- 
ings and  doctrines  that  they  divide  into 
many  denominations  of  divergent  be- 
liefs and  practices?  Can  they  follow 
him  by  branching  off  into  different  di- 
rections contrary  to  the  path  Jesus 
marked  out  for  them? 

The  Savior  authoritatively  taught: 
".  .  .  there  shall  be  one  fold,  and  one 
shepherd."  (Ibid.,  10:16.)  He  did  not 
suggest  there  were  to  be  many  folds 
and  many  shepherds  in  his  kingdom. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Alma,  a  great  prophet  of  ancient 
America,  declared: 

Behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  the  good 
shepherd  doth  call  you;  yea,  and  in  his  own 
name  he  doth  call  you,  which  is  the  name 
of  Christ;  and  if  ye  will  not  hearken  unto 
the  voice  of  the  good  shepherd,  to  the  name 
by  which  ye  are  called,  behold,  ye  are  not 
the  sheep  of  the  good  shepherd. 

And  now  if  ye  are  not  the  sheep  of  the 
good  shepherd,  of  what  fold  are  ye?  Behold, 
I  say  unto  you,  that  the  devil  is  your  shep- 
herd, and  ye  are  of  his  fold;  and  now,  who 
can  deny  this?  Behold,  I  say  unto  you, 
whosoever  denieth  this  is  a  liar  and  a  child 
of  the  devil.  (Alma  5:38-39.) 

In  this  world  of  many  churches  with 
their  diversity  of  beliefs  and  teachings, 
can  they  all  be  right  and  enjoy  true 
authority  of  ministry?  The  scriptures 
teach  that  God  is  consistent  and  un- 
changeable, that  his  kingdom  is  one  of 
order,  not  chaos.  If  the  scriptures  are 
interpreted  according  to  the  light  of 
truth,  there  is  only  one  path  to  God, 
not  many.  A  kingdom  divided  against 
itself  will  fall  and  become  desolate. 
The  laws  of  God  and  the  requirements 
for  entrance  into  his  kingdom  are  the 
same  for  all.  Even  the  governments  of 
men  do  not  permit  a  variety  of  plans  by 
which  people  can  obtain  citizenship;  the 
requirements  apply  to  all  alike.  Can 
we  think  of  God's  kingdom  advocating 
many  different  ways  to  salvation  and 
glory  to  suit  the  fancy  of  men?  Sin- 
cerity of  belief  is  not  enough  and  can- 
not save  any  man.  Exaltation  is  founded 
upon  true  faith  and  good  works,  for  it 
is  by  works  that  faith  is  made  perfect. 

The  Savior  asked  this  thought-provok- 
ing question:  "And  why  call  ye  me, 
Lord,  Lord,  and  do  not  the  things  which 
I  say?"  (Luke  6:46.)  He  also  taught: 
"The  disciple  is  not  above  his  master: 
but  every  one  that  is  perfect  shall  be 
as  his  master."  (Ibid.,  6:40.)  If  we  are 
not  above  our  master,  then  we  are  obli- 
gated to  do  the  things  that  he  did  to 
obtain  eternal  life.  We  cannot  follow 
a  different  course  of  teachings  and  be- 
liefs and  rest  securely  with  him  in  the 
kingdom  of  our  Father.  Christ  said 
he  came  not  to  do  his  own  will  but  the 
will  of  him  that  sent  him.  He  also  ad- 
vocated, "Come  follow  me."  To  do  so 
would  lead  us  into  the  waters  of  baptism, 
even  as  Christ  was  baptized,  and  by  one 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


119 


who  has  the  authority  to  perform  that 
sacred  ordinance.  John  the  Baptist  was 
divinely  commissioned  and  sent  from 
the  Father  to  baptize  his  Lord  and  Re- 
deemer. 
The  Savior  taught: 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  He  that  en- 
tereth  not  by  the  door  into  the  sheepfold, 
but  climbeth  up  some  other  way,  the  same 
is  a  thief  and  a  robber.  (John  10:1.) 

Every  seeker  after  truth  should  search- 
ingly  and  honestly  ask  himself  or  her- 
self this  question:  Am  I  attempting  to 
climb  heavenward  by  some  other  path 
than  the  one  marked  out  by  the  Re- 
deemer and  Savior  of  men? 

Another  important  saying  of  the 
Savior  in  his  discourse  upon  the  mount 
that  significantly  applies  to  one  Lord, 
one  faith,  one  baptism,  is  this: 

Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me  Lord, 
Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heav- 
en; but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  my  Father 
which  is  in  heaven. 

Many  will  say  to  me  in  that  day,  Lord, 
Lord,  have  we  not  prophesied  in  thy  name? 
and  in  thy  name  have  cast  out  devils:  and 
in  thy  name  done  many  wonderful  works? 

And  then  will  I  profess  unto  them,  I  never 
knew  you:  depart  from  me,  ye  that  work 
iniquity.  (Matt.  7:21-23.) 

If  God's  children  close  their  minds 
and  hearts  to  truth  and  refuse  to  obey 
the  saving  ordinances  of  the  true  king- 
dom of  God  and  thus  fail  to  obtain 
rightful  citizenship  in  it,  this  will  place 
the  disobedient  in  that  group  of  iniquity 
workers  that  the  Lord  will  refuse  to 
recognize  at  his  coming.  Our  Savior 
has  warned  that  every  tree  that  bringeth 
not  forth  good  fruit  is  hewn  down  and 
cast  into  the  fire.  (Ibid.,  7:19.) 

John  the  Beloved  reasoned  wisely  and 
correctly  when  he  taught: 

And  hereby  we  do  know  that  we  know 
him,  if  we  keep  his  commandments. 

He  that  saith,  I  know  him,  and  keepeth 
not  his  commandments,  is  a  liar,  and  the 
truth  is  not  in  him. 

But  whoso  keepeth  his  word,  in  him  verily 
is  the  love  of  God  perfected:  hereby  know 
we  that  we  are  in  him. 


He  that  saith  he  abideth  in  him  ought 
himself  also  so  to  walk,  even  as  he  walked. 
(I  John  2:3-6.) 

If  all  people  walked  as  Christ  walked, 
guided  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  is  the 
spirit  of  truth,  they  would  accept  and 
follow  his  teachings  and  do  the  things 
which  he  did.  This  would  unite  them 
in  one  fold  under  the  leadership  of  the 
true  Shepherd,  Christ  our  Lord. 

In  the  midst  of  present-day  religious 
confusion,  false  teachings,  and  question- 
able faith  in  the  true  purposes  and 
power  of  God,  it  is  most  difficult,  with- 
out honest  effort  and  sincere  searching, 
to  find  Christ's  kingdom  with  its  plan 
of  life  and  salvation.  Fortunately  for 
us,  God  has  not  left  mankind  alone  in 
this  world  of  uncertainty,  but  has  prom- 
ised the  guidance  of  his  spirit  to  en- 
lighten the  understanding  of  his 
children  upon  the  earth  with  truth  and 
light  if  they  will  faithfully  and  prayer- 
fully seek  after  him. 

I  testify  to  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters 
and  friends,  that  there  is  only  one  true 
gospel  plan,  of  which  our  Savior  is  the 
author,  that  embodies  all  the  teachings, 
principles,  and  ordinances  revealed  for 
the  salvation  and  exaltation  of  mankind. 
I  testify  also  that  there  can  be  only  one 
true  kingdom  of  God  on  earth  with  the 
authority  and  power  to  teach  and  ad- 
minister the  sacred  gospel  ordinances  for 
the  blessing  of  the  human  family. 

May  God  grant  that  through  the 
restoration  of  his  kingdom  in  this,  the 
Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times, 
his  will  shall  be  done  on  earth  as  it  is 
in  heaven,  as  our  Savior  taught  us  to 
pray,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Will  Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown  please 
take  his  place  with  the  Twelve,  and 
will  Brother  Gordon  B.  Hinckley  come 
forward  and  take  his  place  among  the 
Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  also  Brother 
Henry  D.  Taylor. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Al- 
bert Theodore  Tuttle,  whom  you  have 
just  sustained  as  one  of  the  First  Coun- 
cil of  Seventy  of  the  Church. 


120 

Sunday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  ALBERT  THEODORE  TUTTLE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


Third  Day 


President  McKay,  my  brothers  and 
sisters:  at  this  time  I  would  surely  like 
to  have  Brother  Benson  share  with  me 
the  manuscript  he  has  in  his  pocket. 

I  am  sure  I  need  not  try  to  tell  you 
what  a  humbling  experience  this  is. 
Perhaps  the  only  people  who  fully 
understand  the  impact  of  such  an  as- 
signment are  these  Brethren  who  sit 
before  you. 

Knowing  something  of  Brother  Oscar 
A.  Kirkham,  his  life  and  his  tremen- 
dous stature,  gives  me  no  consolation  in 
filling  the  vacancy  which  resulted  from 
his  passing.  On  the  contrary,  it  has 
increased  the  weight  of  this  responsi- 
bility. I  must  confess  that  at  the  pres- 
ent time  I  do  not  know  why  the  Lord 
has  called  me  to  this  position.  I  have 
been  taught  a  principle  all  of  my  life 
to  which  President  Clark  has  given  ex- 
pression, that  we  neither  seek  nor  do 
we  decline  the  calls  that  come  to  us  in 
this  Church.  Acceptance  of  this  prin- 
ciple coupled  with  my  faith  that  the 
Brethren  who  direct  the  affairs  of  this 
Church  are  acting  for  the  Lord,  lends 
strength  sufficient  to  accept  this  assign- 
ment, and  to  pledge  my  heart,  might, 
mind,  and  strength  to  the  future  as- 
signments which  shall  be  given  to 
me.  I  thank  you  for  your  sustaining 
vote.  I  trust  that  in  the  days  to  come 
you  will  feel  inclined  to  carry  out  the 
admonition  of  President  Clark  and  help 
sustain  me  with  your  prayers. 

Occasions  such  as  this  give  one  cause 
for  serious  reflection.  If  I  have  a  mes- 
sage today  it  is  an  expression  of  grati- 
tude for  those  who  have  helped  to  bring 
me  to  this  position  of  high  honor.  First, 
I  want  to  express  my  gratitude  to  my 
Heavenly  Father  for  the  blessings  and 
opportunities  that  he  has  made  mine 
throughout  my  life;  secondly  to  my 
sweet  and  devoted  companion,  who  has 
been  in  every  sense  what  Brother  Cow- 
ley has  termed  a  "companion-wife." 
For  her  sweet  and  silent  and  effective 
support,  I  express  my  appreciation. 

I  am  thankful,  too,  to  my  five  children 
from  whom  I  have  learned  many  les- 
sons of  life  and  who  have  given  me  a 
better  understanding  of  my  Father  in 
heaven  and  his  relationship  to  all  of 


us,  his  children.  To  have  them  climb 
upon  my  knee  and  throw  themselves 
upon  my  neck  and  express  in  their  in- 
nocent way  their  love  and  their  affec- 
tion typifies,  I  am  sure,  what  our  Father 
in  heaven  wants  us  to  do:  to  come  to 
him,  to  rely  upon  him,  to  ask  of  him, 
that  we  may  receive. 

I  think  I  have  learned  another  lesson 
from  my  children,  too,  when  they  have 
remembered  to  express  appreciation  to 
me  for  some  kind  act.  We  all  may 
well  learn  to  express  our  appreciation 
to  our  Father  in  heaven  for  his  many 
blessings. 

I  am  grateful  for  my  wonderful 
mother  and  father  and  for  the  bound- 
less love  and  valuable  teachings  received 
in  our  home.  I  am  grateful,  too,  for 
my  only  sister.  In  our  home  we  had 
both  precept  and  example,  which,  I 
think  should  be  found  in  every  Latter- 
day  Saint  home  and  to  which  I  owe 
most  of  what  I  am. 

I  owe  a  debt  of  gratitude  also  to  my 
other  forebears  who  joined  the  Church 
when  they  heard  the  truth  and  came  to 
the  valleys  of  the  mountains  and  built 
what  we  now  enjoy.  I  am  grateful 
that  they  had  the  courage  to  leave  their 
homes  and  accept  calls  which  came  to 
them  to  colonize  in  the  Great  Basin 
area. 

I  am  also  deeply  grateful  for  my  teach- 
ers, both  within  and  without  the 
Church.  I  am  a  product  of  this  Church. 
I  hope  and  pray  that  I  can  be  counted 
a  worthy  one,  because  from  my  early 
youth  I  have  been  taught  in  all  of  the 
organizations  of  the  Church,  in  the 
Primary,  the  Mutual,  the  Sunday  School, 
and  the  priesthood  classes,  and  have  had 
opportunity  to  learn  and  serve  in  them. 
Today  I  cannot  help  thinking  of  the 
lovely  women  and  the  fine  men  in  these 
auxiliaries  and  priesthood  quorums  who 
have  taught  me  the  gospel  and  strength- 
ened my  testimony.  To  them  I  voice 
my  appreciation. 

Because  of  my  association  in  the  edu- 
cational program  of  the  Church  (and 
all  of  my  productive  life  has  been  spent 
in  it),  I  feel  a  greater  appreciation  and 
kinship  to  my  seminary  and  institute 
teachers  and  those  at  Brigham  Young 


ELDER  ALBERT  Th 

University  than  perhaps  to  others.  I 
certainly  would  echo  the  eloquent  plea 
of  Elder  Moyle  that  all  parents  in  this 
Church  see  to  it  that  their  sons  and 
daughters  enroll  in  seminary,  and  that 
those  college  students  who  do  not  at- 
tend the  Church  schools  should  enroll 
in  institutes  of  religion,  where  men  of 
devotion  and  dedication  can  balance 
their  religious  education  with  their 
secular  learning.  It  is  my  belief,  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  that  we  do  not  lose 
young  people  who  go  away  to  college 
and  further  their  education  if  while  they 
are  so  engaged  secular  learning  is  bal- 
anced with  teachings  of  the  restored 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  realize  that  young  people  are  under 
tremendous  pressure  from  school  to 
complete  the  requirements  both  for 
graduation  and  for  entrance  into  a  uni- 
versity, and  sometimes  we  think  we  do 
not  have  time  to  get  daily  religious 
training.  It  seems  to  me  that  while 
we  are  in  this  life,  sent  here  for  the 
purpose  of  getting  acquainted  with  the 
physical  things  of  this  earth,  and  to 
work  out  our  salvation,  that  we  might 
well  pay  attention  first  to  the  learning 
of  the  gospel  plan  and  our  part  in  it. 
And  I  would  urge,  because  of  my  close 
experience  with  daily  religious  educa- 
tion and  my  testimony  of  its  fruitful- 
ness,  that  every  young  person  in  the 
Church  enrol  in  seminaries.  Such  in- 
structions will  help  prepare  youth  for 
life;  will  supplement  the  teachings  in 
the  home,  the  teachings  of  the  auxil- 
iaries of  the  Church;  will  more  ade- 
quately prepare  missionaries,  as  we  have 
heard  explained;  will  lead  them  into  the 
temples  for  proper  marriage,  and  help 
to  make  faithful  members  of  them. 

Now  it  is  true  that  there  are  pres- 
sures on  these  young  people  for  such 
courses  as  they  should  take,  but  may 
we  ever  keep  in  mind  the  admonition 
of  our  Lord  and  Savior  to  ".  .  .  seek  .  .  . 
first  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  his  right- 
eousness;" (Matt.  6:33)  and  then  add 
the  other  things  where  we  can. 

I  would  like  to  pay  my  respects  to 
that  corps  of  devoted  men  and  women 
who  teach  in  the  Church  educational 
system,  for  their  devotion  and  their 
dedication  to  duty  in  going  the  extra 
mile. 

In  closing,  I  wish  to  leave  my  humble 


EODORE  TUTTLE  121 

testimony  with  you  that  there  has  been 
a  conviction  borne  upon  my  soul  that 
God  lives,  that  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
lives,  that  he  was  resurrected  and  now 
rules  with  his  Father  in  the  affairs  and 
destinies  of  men,  and  that  he  is  at  the 
head  of  this  Church. 

I  have  a  testimony  in  my  heart  that 
God  the  Father  and  his  Son  appeared 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  the 
spring  of  1820  and  there  commissioned 
him  to  restore  the  gospel  which  had 
been  taken  from  the  earth.  I  have  a 
conviction  also  in  my  heart  that  these 
men  before  you  are  the  commissioned 
servants  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  dele- 
gated to  administer  the  affairs  of  this 
Church  and  kingdom  until  he  shall 
come  and  reign. 

I  am  grateful  for  this  testimony. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  pledge  my 
life  to  the  Lord  in  his  cause  and  to  your 
service,  reserving  only  sufficient  time 
and  means  to  rear  my  children  honor- 
ably before  him  and  before  my  fellow 
men. 

I  pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord 
to  be  upon  me  and  trust  that  you,  too, 
will  join  in  that  prayer  that  I  might 
adequately  serve. 

This  testimony  I  bear  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  have  just  been  listening  to  Elder 
Albert  Theodore  Tuttle,  who  this  day 
was  sustained  as  one  of  the  First  Coun- 
cil of  Seventy.  He  fills  a  vacancy  in 
that  Council  made  by  the  death  of 
Elder  Oscar  A.  Kirkham.  The  Choir 
and  congregation  will  now  sing,  "How 
Firm  A  Foundation,"  conducted  by 
Brother  Jay  E.  Welch.  After  the  sing- 
ing, we  would  like  to  hear  from  Brother 
Henry  D.  Taylor,  who  is  today  sus- 
tained as  an  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in 
singing  the  hymn,  "How  Firm  A  Foun- 
dation," conducted  by  Jay  E.  Welch. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Brother 
Henry  D.  Taylor,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  so  chosen  this  day.  He  will 
be  followed  by  Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinck- 
ley. 


122 

Sunday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Third  Day 


At  4:15  yesterday,  as  the  afternoon 
session  of  conference  was  concluding,  I 
was  handed  a  note  written  by  Sister 
Clare  Middlemiss,  President  McKay's 
secretary,  requesting  that  I  be  in  Presi- 
dent McKay's  office  at  five  o'clock.  I 
was  there.  Shortly  after  that  the 
lightning  struck. 

President  McKay  pointed  out  that  a 
vacancy  or  vacancies  would  exist  in  the 
Assistants  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
and  it  was  his  desire  and  the  desire  of 
the  Brethren  that  I  should  fill  one  of 
those  vacancies.  There  was  only  one 
answer  that  I  could  give  and  that  was, 
"Yes,  President  McKay,  I  will  accept.  I 
will  do  all  I  can."  This,  brethren  and 
sisters,  is  in  spite  of  a  feeling  of  inade- 
quacy and  a  knowledge  of  my  limita- 
tions. 

Today  I  also  would  like  to  pay  trib- 
ute to  my  forebears,  the  Taylors  and 
the  Dixons,  who  joined  the  Church  in 
foreign  countries  and  came  to  this  land. 
I  am  grateful  for  my  parents  who  have 
long  since  passed  away,  for  the  training 
which  they  gave  their  six  sons  and  two 
daughters  that  whenever  a  call  came 
from  the  Brethren,  there  could  be  but 
one  answer,  and  that  was  to  say  "Yes," 
accept  the  calling,  and  then  serve  with 
all  of  our  heart,  might,  mind,  and 
strength. 

In  accepting  this  calling,  I  take  comfort 
from  a  few  factors.  First  is  the  promise 
of  the  prophet  that  has  been  quoted 
once  today  here,  that  whenever  the  Lord 
has  a  work  for  us  to  do,  he  prepares 
a  way  for  us  to  accomplish  it.  Grand- 
mother Taylor  used  to  say  that  "the 
Lord  broadens  the  back  to  carry  the 
burden." 

I  also  rely  upon  the  assurance  that 
prayers  are  being  offered  up  daily 
throughout  this  Church  for  the  General 
Authorities,  and  I  know  those  prayers 
are  heard  and  that  the  Brethren  are 
sustained  by  the  spirit  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  in  answer  to  those  prayers. 

As  we  have  called  missionaries,  also 
branch  and  district  presidencies  and 
others  to  positions  of  leadership  and  re- 
sponsibility, we  have  pointed  out  to 


them  that  "often  men  are  called  not  for 
what  they  are,  but  for  what  they  may 
become."  Now,  it  is  an  easy  thing  to 
give  advice  and  counsel  like  that.  Some- 
times those  words  come  back  to  us,  so 
in  giving  counsel  it  might  be  well  to 
keep  in  mind  this  adage,  to  "let  our 
words  be  sweet  and  tender  because 
tomorrow  we  may  have  to  eat  them." 

For  the  past  two  and  a  half  years, 
Sister  Taylor  and  I  have  been  presiding 
in  the  California  Mission.  I  am  grate- 
ful for  Sister  Taylor,  a  beautiful  and 
lovely  daughter  of  Zion.  Our  present 
calling  is  probably  the  most  satisfying 
experience  that  we  have  ever  had  in  our 
lives.  We  work  shoulder  to  shoulder, 
traveling  about  the  mission  together. 
Over  the  years  as  I  have  served  in 
other  Church  positions,  Sister  Taylor 
has  had  to  assume  the  major  responsi- 
bility in  the  rearing  of  our  four  fine  sons. 
I  am  grateful  for  her,  for  her  companion- 
ship, and  for  the  support  and  strength 
that  she  is  to  me. 

I  would  like  to  express  appreciation 
this  day  for  the  missionaries  in  the  Cali- 
fornia Mission,  also  for  the  Saints  who 
reside  in  southern  California  and  Ari- 
zona, in  the  mission  as  well  as  in  the 
thirty-four  stakes  in  southern  California 
and  Arizona  where  the  missionaries  are 
working.  The  stake  presidents,  the  bish- 
ops, and  all  the  Saints  have  been  most 
kind,  and  very  thoughtful  and  generous 
to  us.  We  have  learned  to  love  the 
people  there  and  to  appreciate  them. 

I  would  like  to  pledge  my  support  this 
day  to  the  Brethren,  that  I  will  do  all 
within  my  power  to  help  build  up  the 
kingdom.  Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  once 
remarked  that  President  Clark  had  made 
the  suggestion  that  there  are  two  times 
when  a  short  talk  is  in  order,  at  least 
two  times — once  is  when  you  are  start- 
ing a  job,  and  the  other  is  when  you  are 
finishing.  Well,  I  am  just  starting  a 
new  calling,  so  it  gives  me  encourage- 
ment to  make  my  remarks  brief. 

I  would  like  to  leave  with  you  today, 
brethren  and  sisters,  my  witness  that  I 
know  that  we  have  a  Heavenly  Father, 
that  he  loves  us,  that  he  is  interested  in 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 


123 


us.  I  bear  my  witness  to  you  today  on 
this  Easter  Sabbath  that  I  believe  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  the  Savior 
and  Redeemer  of  mankind,  and  that 
through  his  atonement  we  will  have 
salvation  and  also  the  possibilities  of 
exaltation  through  our  acts. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  life  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  truly  believe 
he  talked  to  our  Heavenly  Father  and 
his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  in  the  Sacred 
Grove  in  the  year  1820.  It  is  my  firm 
belief  that  under  instructions  which 
were  given  him  this  Church  was  organ- 
ized, and  I  am  so  grateful  for  my  mem- 
bership in  this  Church.  I  love  it  very 
much. 

I  am  grateful  to  belong  to  a  Church 
that  is  directed  and  led  by  inspiration 
and  revelation  in  this  day,  and  with  all 


my  heart  I  uphold  President  David  O. 
McKay  and  these  other  Brethren  in  the 
General  Authorities. 

God  bless  you,  brethren  and  sisters. 
I  hope  that  you  will  pray  for  me  as  I 
will  pray  for  you. 

I  bear  this  witness  to  you  and  hum- 
bly pray  for  this,  in  the  name  of  our 
Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve.  We  shall  now  hear  from 
Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  who  was 
sustained  this  day  in  the  same  position, 
and  he  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Marion 
G.  Romney,  a  member  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  re- 
minded of  a  statement  made  by  my  first 
missionary  companion  when  I  received 
a  letter  of  transfer  to  the  European  Mis- 
sion office.  After  I  had  read  it,  I  turned 
it  over  to  him.  He  read  it,  and  then 
said:  "Well,  you  must  have  helped  an 
old  lady  across  the  street  in  the  pre- 
existence.  This  recognition  has  not 
come  because  of  anything  you've  done 
here." 

Humbly,  I  seek  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord.  I  am  overwhelmed  with  a  sense 
of  inadequacy.  I  feel  shaken,  and  if 
what  I  say  is  largely  in  the  nature  of 
personal  testimony,  I  hope  you  will 
forgive  me. 

Since  President  McKay  spoke  with  me 
late  last  evening  I  have  been  thinking 
about  the  road  that  led  here.  I  know 
that  I  have  not  come  that  road  alone, 
and  I  feel  very  grateful  for  the  many 
men  and  women — the  great  and  good 
men  who  are  here  today,  and  the  small 
and  obscure,  but,  wonderful  people, 
many  of  whose  names  I  do  not  remem- 
ber— who  have  helped  me.  It  is  the 
same  with  each  of  us  in  the  Church.  No 
man  proceeds  alone.  We  grow  accord- 
ing to  the  help  given  us  by  those  who 
teach  us  and  lead  us. 


I  have  been  marvelously  fortunate  and 
greatly  blessed.  I  have  had  a  wonder- 
ful opportunity  in  working  closely  with 
the  Brethren — all  of  those  who  are  on 
this  stand,  and  many  who  have  sat  here 
in  years  past  and  who  are  gone.  I  have 
had  a  sure  conviction  that  President 
McKay  is  a  prophet  of  the  Lord  since 
the  day  he  was  sustained  as  the  Presi- 
dent of  this  Church,  and  I  have  had 
many  experiences  which  have  confirmed 
that  conviction. 

I  had  the  great  opportunity  of  being 
with  him  at  the  Swiss  Temple,  and  as  I 
saw  those  people  gathered  from  ten  na- 
tions to  participate  in  the  temple  ordi- 
nances; as  I  saw  elderly  people  from  be- 
hind the  Iron  Curtain  who  had  lost 
their  families  in  the  wars  that  had 
washed  over  them,  and  witnessed  the 
expressions  of  joy  and  tears  of  gladness 
which  came  from  their  hearts  as  a  re- 
sult of  the  opportunities  that  had  been 
given  them;  as  I  saw  young  husbands 
and  wives  with  their  families — their 
bright  and  beautiful  children — and  saw 
those  families  united  in  an  eternal  re- 
lationship, I  knew  with  a  certainty  even 
beyond  what  I  had  known  before  that 
this  man  was  inspired  and  directed  of 
the  Lord  to  bring  these  priceless  bless- 


124 

Sunday,  April  6 

ings  into  the  lives  of  those  men  and 
women  of  faith  gathered  from  the  na- 
tions of  Europe. 

I  do  not  know  why  under  the  bless- 
ing of  Providence  I  have  had  the  mar- 
velous association  which  I  have  had 
with  President  Richards.  In  1935  when 
I  was  released  from  my  mission,  Elder 
Joseph  F.  Merrill  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  who  was  my  mission  president, 
asked  that  I  meet  with  the  First  Presi- 
dency to  tell  them  of  some  conditions 
in  the  European  missions.  Following 
that  interview  President  McKay  assigned 
me  to  work  under  the  supervision  of 
Brother  Richards,  and  for  almost  a  quar- 
ter of  a  century  I  have  worked  under 
his  direction  and  have  been  tutored  by 
him.  I  have  partaken  of  his  wisdom — 
his  great  wisdom — and  his  kindness  and 
graciousness.  I  shall  ever  be  in  his  debt, 
and  I  want  him  to  know  of  my  love  and 
appreciation  for  him. 

President  Clark  has  been  my  ever- 
ready  friend  and  adviser.  I  do  not  know 
how  to  say  thanks  enough  to  him.  And 
to  all  of  these  Brethren  whom  I  have 
come  to  love,  and  who  have  been  so 
generous  and  good  to  me,  I  am  deeply 
grateful. 

I  have  been  touched  by  the  mission 
presidents  with  whom  I  have  worked. 
As  I  have  known  their  stories,  the  great 
sacrifices  which  they  have  made  to  go 
into  the  world,  the  devotion  with  which 
they  labor,  the  manner  in  which  they 
give  of  themselves,  I  have  been  hum- 
bled. I  have  been  inspired  by  the 
missionaries  with  whom  I  have  had  asso- 
ciation. I  have  seen  them  as  they  have 
gone  out  in  all  kinds  of  weather,  late 
and  soon,  doing  their  work  and  bearing 
testimony,  often  at  great  sacrifice,  and 
bringing  a  marvelous  harvest  of  souls 
into  the  kingdom  of  God.  I  have  been 
touched  by  their  parents,  with  many  of 
whom  I  have  talked.  There  are  still 
many  widows  in  this  Church  who  wash 
and  iron,  who  sweep  and  empty  waste- 
baskets  to  keep  sons  and  daughters  in 
the  mission  field,  and  who  would  mort- 
gage all  they  have  to  give  whatever 
might  be  felt  necessary  to  make  more 
effective  the  work  of  a  son  or  daughter 
in  the  mission  field. 

I  have  thought,  as  has  Brother  Tuttle, 
of  my  teachers  of  the  Primary,  the  Sun- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

day  School,  and  the  MIA,  and  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  leaders  who  helped 
me  along  when  I  was  a  noisy  boy,  and 
who  exercised  patience  and  forbear- 
ance. I  do  not  remember  many  of  the 
specific  lessons  they  taught,  but  some- 
how there  was  born  in  my  heart  a  con- 
viction concerning  the  truth  of  this 
work. 

I  shall  always  be  grateful  to  the  bish- 
op who  recommended  me  for  a  mission, 
for  my  companions  in  the  field,  to  the 
humble  men  and  women  of  faith  among 
whom  I  labored;  to  Brother  George  D. 
Pyper  of  the  Sunday  School,  who  in- 
vited me  to  serve  on  the  general  board; 
to  my  stake  president  who  invited  me 
to  become  his  counselor.  To  Brother 
Harold  B.  Lee  I  feel  particularly  in- 
debted for  a  blessing  which  he  gave 
me  when  he  set  me  apart  as  a  stake 
president.  I  shall  never  forget  the  lan- 
guage and  spirit  of  that  blessing. 

Now,  in  conclusion,  I  should  like  to 
express  my  appreciation  to  my  father. 
He  lies  critically  ill  in  the  hospital.  If 
I  feel  any  selfish  satisfaction  in  this 
honor,  it  is  the  satisfaction  that  comes 
from  the  realization  that  one  of  his  sons 
has  been  found  worthy  of  the  confidence 
of  the  Brethren.  And  if  I  feel  any  re- 
gret, it  is  that,  unless  the  Lord  rules  to 
the  contrary,  he  will  not  know  of  this 
in  mortality  because  of  the  condition  in 
which  he  lies  today. 

No  son  ever  had  a  better  father. 
He  was  busy  in  the  Church — for 
twenty-five  years  he  was  in  the  stake 
presidency  and  filled  many  other  re- 
sponsibilities— but  he  never  forced  his 
views  upon  us  and  never  compelled  us 
to  participate.  He  never  touched  one  of 
his  children.  But  by  some  inspired 
psychology  he  planted  in  us  a  faith,  a 
love  for  the  restored  gospel,  and,  I  think, 
a  desire  to  do  the  right  thing. 

I  would  like  also  to  express  apprecia- 
tion to  my  marvelous  and  faithful  moth- 
er. She  died  three  years  before  I  went 
on  a  mission.  I  received  my  call  in  the 
days  of  depression,  and  money  was 
scarce,  and  the  mission  to  which  I  went 
was  then  the  most  costly  in  the  Church. 
But  we  found  that  she,  through  the 
years,  had  banked  some  of  her  small 
change  and  set  up,  as  it  were,  a  trust 
fund  so  that  her  boys  might  go  on 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


125 


missions  regardless  of  any  economic 
catastrophe  that  might  hit  the  family. 

I  would  also  like  to  express  apprecia- 
tion for  the  wonderful  women  who  have 
come  into  our  home  and  for  my  own 
beloved  companion  and  our  five  chil- 
dren. 

I  say  these  things  for  two  reasons: 
first,  because  I  am  grateful  to  all  who 
have  helped  me  along  the  way,  and  sec- 
ondly, because  I  would  like  to  make  the 
point  that  all  of  us,  in  our  various  situ- 
ations, are  the  result,  largely,  of  the 
lives  that  touch  ours;  and  that  as  teach- 
ers and  officers  in  the  Church  we  affect 
for  good  or  ill  all  who  come  under  our 
direction  according  to  our  diligence  in 
meeting  our  responsibilities. 

It  was  Emerson,  I  think,  who  was  asked 
what  book  had  had  the  greatest  influ- 
ence upon  his  life,  and  he  said  he  could 
no  more  remember  the  books  he  had 
read  than  he  could  remember  the  meals 
he  had  eaten,  but  they  had  made  him. 
Likewise,  all  of  us  are  largely  the  prod- 
ucts of  the  lives  which  touch  upon  our 
lives,  and  today  I  feel  profoundly  grate- 
ful for  all  who  have  touched  mine. 

Now,  in  conclusion,  on  this  sixth  day 
of  April,  significant  under  the  revela- 


tions of  the  Lord,  I,  too,  would  like  to 
bear  testimony  that  I  know  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  is  our  Redeemer,  the 
Only  Begotten  of  the  Father  in  the  flesh, 
the  Savior  of  mankind  who  gave  his 
life  to  atone  for  our  sins;  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  indeed  a  prophet  of  God,  the 
prophet  of  this  dispensation;  that  the 
Lord's  work  is  here  and  is  real  and 
under  his  direction;  and  that  President 
David  O.  McKay  stands,  as  did  the 
prophet  of  this  dispensation,  to  lead  the 
kingdom  of  God,  as  the  stone  which  was 
cut  out  of  the  mountain  without  hands, 
which  should  roll  forth  and  fill  the 
earth. 

God  help  us,  you  and  me,  to  live  up 
to  the  testimonies  which  we  carry  in 
our  hearts,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley  has  just 
concluded  speaking,  one  of  the  Assist- 
ants to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  We 
shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Marion  G. 
Romney,  a  member  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters:  I 
loved  and  respected  our  leaders  who 
have  gone  to  their  rewards  since  last 
conference.  To  Sisters  Bennion,  McKay, 
and  Kirkham  I  pay  my  respects  and  pray 
the  Lord  to  comfort,  sustain,  and  bless 
them  and  their  families. 

I  have  been  touched  by  the  testimonies 
of  these  men  who  have  this  day  been 
called  into  service  as  General  Authori- 
ties. I  feel  certain  that  the  Lord  inspired 
President  McKay  to  name  them.  From 
my  acquaintance  with  them  and  my 
knowledge  of  their  work,  I  can  testify 
that  all  of  them  are  faithful  and  devoted 
servants  of  God. 

I  want  to  say  just  a  word  about  Brother 
Joseph  T.  Bentley  who  has  this  day  been 
called  to  preside  over  the  Young  Men's 
Mutual  Improvement  Association.  I 
joined  wholeheartedly  in  the  vote  of  ap- 
preciation to  the  brethren  who  are  being 
released.    I  know  they  have  rendered 


long  and  able  service,  and  I  feel  sure 
that  Brother  Bentley  will  prove  to  be  a 
worthy  successor  to  them.  I  have  known 
him  from  the  time  he  was  born.  I  knew 
his  father,  Joseph  C.  Bentley.  He  was 
my  bishop  from  the  time  I  was  born  un- 
til we  left  Mexico.  I  remember  how 
when  my  mother  was  in  need,  my  father 
being  away  from  home,  he  let  me  chop 
wood  from  some  old  stumps  in  the  tith- 
ing office  yard.  I  can  still  remember 
the  blisters.  He  was  a  very  wise  man. 
He  did  not  permit  us  to  suffer  for  the 
necessities  of  life,  but  he  saw  to  it  that 
we  worked  for  what  we  got. 

Today  I  desire  to  do  three  things;  first, 
make  a  short  report  on  the  Mexican  mis- 
sions I  have  just  visited;  second,  draw  a 
lesson  from  the  history  of  the  Mexican 
people  and  their  progenitors;  and,  third, 
make  an  application  of  that  lesson  to 
the  people  of  our  day. 


126 

Sunday,  April  6 

I  have  taken  as  my  text  the  words  of 
Nephi: 

Wherefore,  I  write  unto  my  people,  unto 
all  those  that  shall  receive  hereafter  these 
things  which  I  write,  that  they  may  know 
the  judgments  of  God,  that  they  come  upon 
all  nations,  according  to  the  word  which 
he  hath  spoken.  (2  Nephi  25:3.) 

In  the  main  the  missionaries  in  Mex- 
ico are  in  good  health,  working  hard, 
and  therefore  enjoying  the  spirit  of  their 
callings.  We  visited  with  and  heard  the 
reports  and  testimonies  of  254  of  them. 

Many  of  the  people  among  whom  they 
labor  are  receptive  to  the  gospel.  Last 
year  there  were  1,288  convert  baptisms. 
As  of  the  first  of  the  year  the  Church 
membership  in  Mexico  was  11,249. 

The  missionaries  tell  of  many  faith- 
promoting  experiences.  To  me,  however, 
the  greatest  is  the  transformation  taking 
place  in  the  feelings,  thinking,  and  in- 
terests of  the  missionaries  themselves. 
Their  adjustment  to  the  environment 
and  the  language,  together  with  the  love 
they  develop  for  the  humble  people  they 
serve,  must  be  seen  to  be  appreciated.  It 
could  not  be  accomplished  but  by  the 
power  of  God.  Imagine,  if  you  will,  an 
English-speaking  twenty-year-old  lad  be- 
coming so  absorbed  in  Spanish  that  after 
but  three  months  he  has  difficulty  bear- 
ing his  testimony  in  English.  Like  all 
true  missionaries,  each  regards  his  own 
field  of  labor  as  choice  above  all  others. 

My  fellow  countrymen,  Harvey  H. 
Taylor  and  Claudious  Bowman,  the  mis- 
sion presidents,  are  wise  and  able  men. 
With  their  devoted  wives  they  give 
faithful  service. 

In  Mexico,  itself,  marked  advancement 
has  been  made  during  the  past  forty 
years.  Reforms  forged  in  the  Revolu- 
tion have  measurably  advanced  the 
democratic  process.  A  comparatively 
stable  government  has  arisen.  Phe- 
nomenal progress  has  been  made  in 
education.  Industry  has  expanded. 
Hard-surfaced  roads  and  air  lanes  criss- 
cross the  country.  The  population  is 
rapidly  increasing.  For  many,  living 
standards  have  improved. 

It  occurred  to  me  that  by  these  and 
other  means  the  Lord  is  beginning  to 
prepare  the  remnant  of  Lehi  to  receive 
their  promised  blessings. 

Jesus  said  to  their  progenitors, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

...  ye  are  the  children  of  the  prophets; 
and  ye  are  of  the  house  of  Israel;  and  ye  are 
of  the  covenant  which  the  Father  made 
with  .  .  .  Abraham. 

And  .  .  .  this  people  will  I  establish  in 
this  land,  .  .  .  and  it  shall  be  a  New  Jeru- 
salem. And  the  powers  of  heaven  shall  be 
in  the  midst  of  this  people;  yea,  even  I  will 
be  in  the  midst  of  you.  (3  Nephi  20:25,  22.) 

Looking  into  the  faces  of  nearly  10,000 
Church  members  and  investigators,  I 
thought  of  their  promised  blessings  and 
contrasted  their  present  status  with  that 
to  which  they  must  rise  to  attain  them. 
I  thought  also  of  our  divine  commission 
to  carry  the  gospel  to  them  and  was  all 
but  overwhelmed  by  the  magnitude  of 
the  task.  But  then  I  remembered,  too, 
the  Lord's  assurance  that  he  will  hasten 
his  work  in  its  time  and  was  comforted 
with  the  knowledge  that  the  acceptance 
of  the  gospel  will  greatly  accelerate  their 
advancement.  Personally,  I  am  very 
grateful  for  the  impetus  being  given  by 
the  First  Presidency  to  the  work  among 
them. 

Many  other  matters  weighed  upon  my 
mind  as  throughout  our  extensive  travel- 
ing we  observed  conditions  among  them. 
The  effects  of  the  Spanish  conquest  and 
of  four  centuries  of  domination  by  secu- 
lar and  ecclesiastical  tyrants  are  every- 
where painfully  apparent.  The  ruins, 
with  their  mute  evidence  of  so-called 
fertility  cults  and  human  sacrifice,  elo- 
quently testify  to  the  degraded  status  to 
which  they  had  fallen  long  before  the 
Spanish  conquest. 

My  heart  was  saddened  as  I  contrasted 
their  present  circumstances  with  the 
blessed  conditions  which  prevailed 
among  their  progenitors  following  the 
post-resurrection  ministry  of  Jesus.  At 
that  time,  as  you  will  remember,  they 
developed  a  society  superior  to  any  since 
Eden,  save  that  of  Enoch  only;  a  society 
in  which,  "there  was  no  contention  .  .  . 
because  of  the  love  of  God  which  did 
dwell  in  the  hearts  of  the  people";  a 
society  in  which,  "there  were  no  envy- 
ings,  nor  strifes,  nor  tumults,  nor  whore- 
doms, nor  lyings,  nor  murders,  nor  any 
manner  of  lasciviousness;"  a  society  in 
which  every  member  had  conquered  the 
lusts  of  the  flesh.  ".  .  .  and  surely,"  con- 
cludes the  record,  "there  could  not  be  a 
happier  people  among  all  the  people 
who  had  been  created  by  the  hand  of 
God."  (4  Nephi  15-16.) 


ELDER  MARK 

". . .  my  joy  is  great,  even  unto  fulness, 
because  of  you,  .  .  ."  Jesus  said  to  them, 
"yea,  and  even  the  Father  rejoiceth,  and 
also  all  the  holy  angels,  .  .  ."  (3  Nephi 
27:30.)  As  I  contemplated  this  golden 
era,  I  remembered  also  that  even  as 
Jesus  spoke  his  joy  was  turned  to  sorrow 
and  he  said,  as  he  pre-visioned  the  apos- 
tasy into  which  their  posterity  would 
fall: 

But  behold,  it  sorroweth  me  because  of 
the  fourth  generation  from  this  generation, 
.  .  .  for  they  will  sell  me  for  silver  and 
for  gold,  and  for  that  which  moth  doth 
corrupt  and  which  thieves  can  break  through 
and  steal.  And  in  that  day  will  I  visit 
them,  even  in  turning  their  works  upon  their 
own  heads.  (Ibid.,  27:32.) 

They  who  spurned  the  light  of  his 
gospel  and  began  the  descent  into  the 
awful  darkness  through  which  the  rem- 
nant has  since  passed  not  only  had  this 
warning  before  them,  they  also  had  the 
warning  of  Nephi  given  some  six  hun- 
dred years  earlier.  He  foretold  their 
apostasy,  concluding  with  this  doleful 
note: 

.  .  .  And  I  looked,  and  beheld  three  genera- 
tions pass  away  in  righteousness;  and  their 
garments  were  white  even  like  unto  the 
Lamb  of  God.  .  .  . 

And  I  .  .  .  saw  many  of  the  fourth  genera- 
tion who  passed  away  in  righteousness. 

And  ...  I  looked  and  beheld  the  people 
of  my  seed  gathered  together  in  multitudes 
against  the  seed  of  my  brethren;  and  they 
were  gathered  together  to  battle. 

And  ...  I  beheld  .  .  .  that  the  seed  of 
my  brethren  did  overpower  the  people  of 
my  seed. 

.  .  .  and  I  saw  wars  and  rumors  of  wars 
among  them;  and  in  wars  and  rumors  of 
wars  I  saw  many  generations  pass  away. 

And  .  .  .  after  they  had  dwindled  in  un- 
belief they  became  a  dark,  and  loathsome, 
and  a  filthy  people,  full  of  idleness  and  all 
manner  of  abominations.  (1  Nephi  12:11- 
12,  15,  19,  21,  23.) 

Notwithstanding  these  warnings,  they 
wilfully  took  the  downward  course.  The 
judgments  of  God  which  have  since 
been  visited  upon  them  have  been  but 
the  inevitable  fruits  of  their  rebellion. 
These  judgments  came,  however,  as 
Nephi  said  they  would,  according  to  the 
word  which  the  Lord  had  spoken. 

But,  the  time  for  them  to  prepare  to 
receive  their  blessings  is  now  at  hand. 
Of  this  we  are  assured,  because  Jesus 


/  G.  ROMNEY  127 

said  that  when  the  Book  of  Mormon 
should  be  brought  to  them,  ".  .  .  it  shall 
be  a  sign  unto  them,  that  they  may  know 
that  the  work  of  the  Father  hath  already 
commenced  unto  the  fulfilling  of"  his 
promises.  (3  Nephi  21:7.) 

Great  is  the  message  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon  to  the  remnant  of  Lehi.  From 
it  they  may  learn  of  their  origin,  that 
they  are  of  the  house  of  Israel,  that  they 
are  heirs  of  the  covenant.  It  reveals  to 
them  and  teaches  them  of  Jesus  Christ 
and  his  gospel.  If  they  will  study,  learn, 
and  accept  it  for  what  it  in  truth  is,  they 
will  come  to  know  and  understand  their 
past,  they  will  obtain  a  vision  of  and 
a  hope  in  their  future,  and  they  will 
realize  as  did  their  progenitors  that  only 
through  accepting  and  obeying  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ  can  they  obtain  their 
promised  blessings. 

But  I  would  not  leave  you  with  the 
impression  that  the  message  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon  is  for  the  remnant  only.  It 
has  peculiar  application  to  us  of  the 
United  States.  The  message  expressed 
by  Nephi  and  confirmed  by  the  epic  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon  peoples  is  uni- 
versal, 

...  the  judgments  of  God  [have  always 
and  will  continue  to]  ...  come  upon  all 
nations  [regardless  of  time  or  place],  accord- 
ing to  the  word  which  he  hath  spoken.  (2 
Nephi  25:3.) 

This  law  embraces  two  divinely  re- 
vealed constants.  Amos  put  one  of  them 
in  these  words, 

Surely  the  Lord  will  do  nothing,  but  he 
revealeth  his  secret  unto  his  servants  the 
prophets.  (Amos  3:7.) 

Jesus  thus  stated  the  other: 

Although,  the  days  will  come,  that  heaven 
and  earth  shall  pass  away;  yet  my  words 
shall  not  pass  away,  but  all  shall  be  fuT 
filled.  (Joseph  Smith  1:35.) 

Understanding  and  applying  these 
truths,  men  and  nations  may  determine 
for  themselves  the  cycle  of  their  own 
lives,  whether  it  shall  terminate  in  the 
shadow  or  in  the  light. 

History  amply  testifies  to  this  con- 
clusion. Through  Noah  the  Lord 
warned  the  antediluvians  of  their  im- 
pending destruction.  With  the  warning, 
he  presented  the  means  of  escape — the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.    His  hearers 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  6 

spurned  the  warning;  rejected  the  gos- 
pel; the  floods  came. 

The  Lord  sent  many  prophets  to  the 
Jaredites,  who 

.  .  .  prophesied  of  the  destruction  of  that 
great  people  except  they  should  repent,  .  .  . 
(Ether  11:1.) 

As  the  end  approached,  Ether, 

.  .  .  did  cry  from  the  morning  even  until 
the  going  down  of  the  sun,  exhorting  the 
people  to  believe  in  God  unto  repentance  lest 
they  should  be  destroyed,  .  .  .  (Ibid.,  12:3.) 

The  prophets  were  rejected  and  the 
Jaredite  nation  perished. 

".  .  .  in  the  .  .  .  reign  of  Zedekiah  .  .  . 
came  many  prophets,  prophesying  unto 
the  people  that  they  must  repent,  or  the 
great  city  Jerusalem,"  would  be  de- 
stroyed with  many  of  its  inhabitants, 
while  others,  "should  be  carried  away 
captive  into  Babylon."  (1  Nephi  1:4, 
13.)  The  prophets  and  their  message 
were  rejected,  and  the  Babylonian  cap- 
tivity followed. 

Jesus  told  the  multitude  at  Jerusalem 
that  their  rejection  of  him  would  bring 
desolation  to  their  homeland;  the  build- 
ings of  the  temple  would  be  thrown 
down,  and  not  one  stone  would  be  left 
upon  another;  that  in  the  destruction 
the  Jews  would  suffer  great  tribulation, 
and  thereafter  be  scattered  upon  the 
earth  to  be  hated  of  all  nations.  True, 
they  crucified  Jesus  for  his  warning.  But 
Titus  besieged  Jerusalem.  The  temple 
was  destroyed,  and  the  Jews  were  scat- 
tered. 

We  today  are  at  the  crossroads  of  an- 
other cycle  in  the  universal  pattern,  a 
cycle  fraught  with  everlasting  conse- 
quences. Whether  it  shall  close  in  the 
light  or  in  the  shadow  is  for  us  to  de- 
termine. The  ominous  signs  are  upon 
us,  and  the  issues  are  crystal  clear. 

Our  whole  world  is  in  confusion.  The 
wisdom  of  our  wise  men  has  proved  in- 
adequate to  stay  the  rising  crisis.  With 
the  means  to  unleash  universal  destruc- 
tion in  the  hands  of  evil  men,  fear  and 
apprehension  ride  with  every  breeze.  In 
the  past,  situations  similar  to  ours  have 
generally  terminated  in  destruction.  It 
would  seem  that  the  judgments  of  God 
are  about  to  be  once  more  poured  out 
upon  the  nations. 

The  world  situation  being  as  it  is,  I 
feel  impelled  to  emphasize  the  fact  that, 


Third  Day 

as  already  pointed  out  with  respect  to 
similar  situations  in  the  past,  the  Lord 
saw  this  one  coming,  and,  in  harmony 
with  his  universal  pattern,  sounded  the 
warning  and  prescribed  the  means  of 
escape.  For  although  the  pattern  is 
universal  so  that  the  lesson  may  be 
clearly  drawn  from  history,  the  Lord 
always  warns  the  people  of  a  new  dis- 
pensation through  prophets  raised  up 
unto  them  in  their  own  day.  This  he 
has  done  for  this  generation  through  the 
great  prophet  of  the  restoration,  Joseph 
Smith,  Jr.  Through  him  the  Lord  re- 
peatedly declared  that  the  world  was 
ripening  in  iniquity  and  that  unless  men 
repented  destruction  would  overtake 
them. 

For  example,  in  March  1829,  he  said: 

...  a  desolating  scourge  shall  go  forth 
among  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  and 
shall  continue  to  be  poured  out  from  time 
to  time,  if  they  repent  not,  until  the  earth 
is  empty,  and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are 
consumed  away  and  utterly  destroyed  by  the 
brightness  of  my  coming. 

Behold,  I  tell  you  these  things,  even  as 
I  also  told  the  people  of  the  destruction  of 
Jerusalem;  and  my  word  shall  be  verified 
at  this  time  as  it  hath  hitherto  been  veri- 
fied. (D  &  C  5:19-20.) 

You  will  note  that  this  prediction,  as 
were  like  predictions  in  the  past,  is  con- 
ditional. "If  they  repent  not,"  is  the 
condition.  For  this  generation  as  for 
all  others,  the  Lord  has  provided  the 
means  of  escape.  This  means  is  now, 
and  has  always  been,  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

In  the  preface  to  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  the  book  in  which  the  reve- 
lations sounding  the  warning  and  de- 
claring anew  the  saving  principles  and 
ordinances  of  the  gospel  are  published, 
the  Lord  said: 

Wherefore,  I  the  Lord,  knowing  the  ca- 
lamity which  should  come  upon  the  in- 
habitants of  the  earth,  called  upon  my 
servant  Joseph  Smith,  Jun.,  and  spake  unto 
him  from  heaven,  and  gave  him  command- 
ments; 

And  also  gave  commandments  to  others, 
that  they  should  proclaim  these  things  unto 
the  world.  (Ibid.,  1:17-18.) 

"These  things"  are,  of  course,  the 
revelations  published  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants.  In  them  the  issues  of 
our  day  are  as  clearly  set  before  us  as 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


129 


were  the  issues  of  the  past  set  before  the 
antediluvians  by  Noah;  the  Jaredites  by 
Ether;  the  people  of  Zedekiah  by  Jere- 
miah; the  Jews  by  the  Master.  They 
are  set  before  us  as  clearly  as  they  were 
set  before  the  Nephites  by  Nephi  and 
the  Resurrected  Jesus. 

By  spurning  the  warning  and  reject- 
ing the  means  of  escape,  we  shall  most 
certainly  bring  upon  ourselves  the  pre- 
dicted destruction,  for  the  words  of 
Jesus,  "Although  .  .  .  heaven  and  earth 
shall  pass  away; .  . .  my  words  shall  not 
pass  away,"  (Joseph  Smith  1:35)  are 
still  immutable. 

On  the  other  hand,  if  men  will  heark- 
en to  and  accept  the  means  of  escape, 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  restored 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the 
rewards  shall  as  certainly  follow.  Fears 
will  give  way  to  confidence;  war  clouds 
will  fade;  righteousness  will  come;  peace 
will  reign.  Again  there  shall  return  to 
earth  that  glorious  state  of  felicity  which 
blessed  the  Nephites  in  the  days  of 
Jesus.    To  these  truths  I  bear  witness. 

When  I  see  the  tangible  evidence  of 
them  in  the  light  shining  from  the  faces 
and  the  happiness  enjoyed  by  those  in 


every  land  who  receive  and  live  the 
gospel,  there  wells  up  in  my  heart  the 
desires  expressed  by  Alma  when  he 
said: 

O  that  I  were  an  angel,  and  could  have 
the  wish  of  mine  heart,  that  I  might  go 
forth  and  speak  with  the  trump  of  God, 
with  a  voice  to  shake  the  earth,  and  cry 
repentance  unto  every  peoplel 

Yea,  I  would  declare  unto  every  soul,  as 
with  the  voice  of  thunder,  repentance  and 
the  plan  of  redemption,  that  they  should 
repent  and  come  unto  our  God,  that  there 
might  not  be  more  sorrow  upon  all  the  face 
of  the  earth.  (Alma  29:1-2.) 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve.  At  the  conclusion  of 
this  morning's  session  you  heard  an  in- 
spirational sermon  from  Elder  Hugh  B. 
Brown,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve.  We 
would  like  to  hear  a  word  from  Brother 
Brown  in  acceptance  of  the  new  pall 
that  has  come  to  him. 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  re- 
spond to  this  call  in  deep  humility,  with 
a  keen  sense  of  my  own  inadequacy,  but 
with  confidence  in  my  Brethren  who 
have  thought  me  worthy  of  it.  I  shall 
spend  the  balance  of  my  life  trying  to 
make  their  judgment  good. 

I  could  mention  many  to  whom  I  am 
indebted,  as  others  have  done.  I  shall 
not  take  that  time.  I  cannot,  however, 
refrain  from  speaking  of  my  angel 
mother,  who,  when  I  was  a  little  child, 
had  faith  in  my  destiny,  and  all  through 
my  life  helped  me  to  believe  and  try 
to  be  worthy  of  it. 

I  would  be  ungrateful  if  I  did  not 
acknowledge  that  Zina  Card  Brown,  my 
beloved  wife,  is  more  responsible  for 
my  being  here  today  than  am  I.  To 
these  two  women  I  am  profoundly  grate- 


ful and  thank  God  for  their  lives  and 
their  influence  on  my  life. 

I  thank  President  McKay  for  his  con- 
fidence. I  love  him  with  all  my  heart. 
It  has  been  my  privilege  to  do  some 
little  work  with  and  for  him  to  help 
to  take  a  little  of  the  burden  from  his 
heart.  I  thank  God  for  that  association. 
I  love  and  honor  his  Counselors  and 
the  members  of  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve,  each  one  of  whom  I  know,  in 
each  one  of  whom  I  have  absolute  con- 
fidence. I  restate  my  faith.  I  rededi- 
cate  my  life.  I  thank  you  for  your 
confidence.  I  pray  for  forgiveness  of  my 
weaknesses  and  sins,  and  ask  for  your 
charity  and  tolerance  and  for  God's 
blessings,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


130  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  S  Third  Day 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


And  now  another  annual  conference 
of  the  Church  has  become  history.  In 
conclusion,  none  of  us  should  leave  this 
conference,  first,  without  a  resolution  in 
his  or  her  heart  to  live  a  better  life. 
True  religion  cannot  be  worn  only  on 
Sundays,  laid  aside  as  you  put  aside  your 
Sunday  clothes,  and  left  to  lie  in  moth- 
balls during  the  week.  True  spirituality 
should  be  expressed  in  daily  activity. 
That  has  been  a  theme  of  this  great 
conference. 

No  father,  no  mother,  no  husband, 
no  wife,  and  no  children  who  have  been 
here  in  attendance  with  them  should 
return  home  without  going  into  a  better 
home  than  that  which  they  left  when 
they  came.  No  fathers  and  mothers 
who  have  listened  in  can  be  true  to  their 
ideals  as  members,  and  to  the  noble 
thoughts  inspired  by  the  remarks  of 
these  Brethren  of  the  General  Authori- 
ties, without  living  tonight  and  in  the 
future  in  a  more  spiritual  home  than 
heretofore.    That  is  our  duty. 

No  man  or  woman  who  has  listened 
in  can  be  true  to  himself  or  to  herself 
without  doing  something  to  make  life 
sweeter  and  better  in  their  home  than 
it  was.   That  is  our  responsibility. 

Secondly,  the  great  theme  has  been 
that  salvation  and  peace,  content- 
ment of  the  human  family,  not  only  in 
the  home  but  also  in  community  life, 
will  come  through  obedience  to  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
It  has  been  the  season  of  Easter,  and 
every  speaker  has  referred  to  the  salva- 
tion, glorified  life,  the  eternal  gospel  of 
the  Resurrected  Christ.  We  cannot  be 
true  to  ourselves  and  to  our  loved  ones 
and  our  associates,  without  being  deter- 
mined to  live  more  in  accordance  with 
those  divine  principles.  I  mean  in  daily 
life,  in  our  speech,  in  our  self-control, 
in  home  associations,  with  business  as- 
sociates, in  political  fields — that  is  the 
obligation  we  have  taken  upon  us  by 
participating  in  the  high  ideals  of  the 
messages  given  by  these  speakers. 

We  cannot  be  true  to  ourselves  and 
to  our  loved  ones,  to  our  associates,  with- 
out feeling  a  determination  to  know 
more  about  this  great  truth  to  which 
testimonies  have  been  borne.  The  spirit 


within  bears  testimony  that  truth  exists 
in  this  old  world,  and  the  spirit  feeds 
upon  that  truth.  I  have  much  to  say, 
but  I  shall  summarize  it,  because  of  the 
lateness  of  the  hour,  by  applying  to  the 
truth  of  the  gospel  what  Mr.  Jordan  says 
about  truth  in  general: 

We  cannot  truly  believe  that  we  are 
the  children  of  God  and  that  God  exists 
without  believing  in  the  final  inevitable 
triumph  of  truth  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  And  as  we  leave  this  conference 
we  shall  have  less  worry  about  the  de- 
struction of  the  world  and  the  present 
civilization  because  God  has  established 
his  Church,  never  to  be  thrown  down 
or  given  to  another  people,  and  as  God 
lives  and  his  people  are  true  to  him  and 
to  one  another  we  need  not  worry  about 
the  ultimate  triumph  of  truth. 

If  you  have  that  testimony  of  truth 
on  your  side,  you  can  pass  through  the 
dark  valley  of  slander,  misrepresentation, 
and  abuse,  undaunted  as  though  you 
wore  a  magic  suit  of  mail,  that  no  bullet 
could  enter,  no  arrow  could  pierce.  You 
can  hold  your  head  high,  toss  it  fear- 
lessly and  defiantly,  look  every  man 
calmly  and  unflinchingly  in  the  eye,  as 
though  you  rode,  a  victorious  king  re- 
turning at  the  head  of  your  legions,  with 
banners  waving  and  lances  glistening 
and  bugles  filling  the  air  with  music. 
You  can  feel  the  great  expansive  world 
of  more  health  surging  through  you  as 
the  quickened  blood  courses  through  the 
body  of  him  who  is  gladly,  gloriously 
proud  of  physical  health.  You  will 
know  that  all  will  come  right  in  the 
end,  that  it  must  come,  that  all  must 
flee  before  the  great  white  light  of  truth, 
as  the  darkness  slinks  away  into  noth- 
ingness in  the  presence  of  the  sunburst. 

So,  brethren  and  sisters,  with  truth  as 
our  guide,  our  companion,  our  ally,  our 
inspiration,  we  may  tingle  with  the 
consciousness  of  our  kinship  with  the 
Infinite,  and  all  the  petty  trials,  sorrows, 
and  sufferings  of  this  life  will  fade 
away  as  the  temporary,  harmless  visions 
seen  in  a  dream.  That  is  our  privilege 
through  God's  blessing  and  guidance  if 
we  apply  in  daily  activity  the  spiritual 
blessings  and  privileges  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


131 


God  help  us  all  to  do  so  and  to  enjoy 
such  blessings  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  favor 
us  with,  "O  Divine  Redeemer,"  con- 
ducted by  Richard  P.  Condie.  The  clos- 
ing prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Philo  T.  Edwards,  president  of  the 
Sharon  Stake. 

The  singing,  as  we  have  told  you, 
has  been  furnished  today  by  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir  under  the  direction  of 
Richard  P.  Condie  and  his  assistant, 
Brother  Jay  E.  Welch.  Brother  Frank 
W.  Asper  has  been  at  the  organ  this 
afternoon. 

We  expressed  appreciation  for  the 
flowers  this  morning  and  for  the  serv- 
ices of  the  radio  and  television  stations, 
and  of  all  who  have  participated  in  this 
great  Conference  to  make  it  successful. 
We  have  not  said  anything  about  the 
ushers,  who,  if  you  have  noticed,  have 
been  at  their  places  right  from  early 
Friday  morning,  and  have  helped  serve 
the  Saints  and  crowds  every  hour  since 
that  time.  We  thank  you,  Bishop  Isaac- 
son, and  others,  who  are  respsonsible 
for  their  service. 

Tonight  the  Deseret  Sunday  School 
Union  will  convene  in  this  building  at 
7  o'clock.  All  Sunday  School  workers 
are  expected  to  be  in  attendance. 

Let  us  drive  carefully  as  we  go  to 
our  homes.  We  have  here  a  notice 
which  may  be  of  interest  to  you  who 
are  leaving.  "U.S.  Highway  50,  Don- 
ner's  Pass,"  it  says,  "is  closed,  but  U.S. 
Highway  40  over  Donner's  Pass  is  open 
for  passenger  cars.  Chains,  however, 
are  necessary.  U.S.  Highway  40  (Alter- 
nate) through  Feather  River  Canyon 
is  open.  Chains,  however,  are  neces- 
sary there."  We  thank  the  Highway 
Patrol  for  sending  this  information  to 
us. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing  the  closing 
song,  and  after  the  benediction  this 
Conference  will  be  adjourned  for  six 
months.  The  benediction  will  be  of- 
fered by  President  Philo  T.  Edwards. 


Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  "O 
Divine  Redeemer." 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  would  consider  me  very  remiss, 
I  am  sure,  if  I  did  not  express  appre- 
ciation to  Brother  Condie  and  the  mem- 
bers of  this  great  Choir,  and  for  their 
inspirational  singing  this  day.  Brethren 
and  sisters,  it  has  taken  a  lot  of  work 
for  you  to  attain  to  that  high  standard, 
but  we  do  appreciate  your  having  gone 
to  that  work  and  having  given  to  us 
this  day  inspiration  inexpressible.  Thank 
you  and  God  bless  you. 

I  am  just  reminded  too  that  now  is 
a  good  time  to  thank  the  two  Choruses 
— one  from  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity, with  combined  choruses  of 
young  people,  last  Friday;  and  the 
other  from  the  Utah  State  University 
of  Logan,  another  group  of  several 
hundred  young  people,  both  of  which 
groups  gave  us  singing  that  is  unex- 
celled, I  think,  anywhere  in  school 
groups.  We  appreciate  it  especially, 
and  I  should  say  that  President  Chase 
of  the  Utah  State  University  is  in  the 
Near  East.  That  is  why  he  is  not 
with  them,  but  we  have  had  as  his 
representative  President  Mark  New- 
berger,  who  is  acting  president  of  the 
Utah  State  University.  We  thank  them 
and  all. 

Now  the  benediction  will  be  offered, 
and  this  Conference  will  be  adjourned 
for  six  months. 


President  Philo  T.  Edwards  of  the 
Sharon  Stake  pronounced  the  benedic- 
tion. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  choral  music  for  the  Friday  ses- 
sions was  furnished  by  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Combined  Choruses, 
with  John  R.  Halliday  conducting  at  the 
Friday  morning  session,  and  Don  L. 
Earl  at  the  afternoon  meeting. 

The  music  for  the  Saturday  morning 
and  afternoon  sessions  was  furnished  by 
the  Combined  Choruses  of  the  Logan 
Latter-day  Saints  Institute  and  the 
Utah  State  University,  James  L.  Bradley 
conducting  the  singing  at  the  morning 
session,  and  Alma  Dittmer  at  the  after- 
noon session. 

At  the  General  Priesthood  meeting 
Saturday  evening,  April  5,  the  singing 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


was  furnished  by  the  Men's  Chorus  of  Accompaniments  and  interludes  on 

the  Tabernacle  Choir,  Richard  P.  Con-  the  organ  were  played  by  Alexander 

die  conducting.  Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper  and  Roy  M. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the  Darley. 
music  for  the  Sunday  sessions,  with 

Richard  P.  Condie,  Director  of  the  Tab-  ■  ■ 

ernacle  Choir,  and  Jay  E.  Welch,  As- 
sistant Director,  conducting.  Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference 
Richard  P.  Condie  directed  the  sing-  were  taken  by  Frank  W.  Otterstrom  and 
ing  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  at  the  Tab-  Joseph  Anderson. 


ernacle  Choir  and  Organ  and  Church  of 
the  Air  broadcasts. 


Joseph  Anderson 
Clerk  of  the  Conference 


133 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


Columbia  Broadcasting  System's 
Church  of  the  Air  was  presented  at  7:30 
a.m.,  Sunday,  April  6,  1958.  The  pro- 
gram was  as  follows: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the 
direction  of  Richard  P.  Condie,  fur- 
nished the  music  for  this  service,  with 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ.  Rich- 
ard L.  Evans  was  the  announcer. 

Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir: 
"Sweet  Is  the  Work." 

Announcer:  The  Church  of  the  Air 
is  presented  by  CBS  Radio  so  that  repre- 
sentatives of  many  faiths  may  speak 
to  a  nation-wide  congregation.  Today's 
service,  in  connection  with  the  Annual 
General  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  comes 
to  you  transcribed  from  the  Mormon 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  through 
the  facilities  of  Station  KSL  in  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah.  Our  speaker  is  Elder 
Harold  B.  Lee,  member  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church. 
Music  is  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  di- 
rected by  Richard  P.  Condie,  with 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

The  event  this  Sabbath  Day  com- 
memorates, the  resurrection  of  Jesus  the 
Christ,  the  Prince  of  Peace,  suggests 
the  singing  of  a  hymn  setting  with  the 


witness  of  these  words  from  Job:  "I 
know  that  my  Redeemer  liveth.  What 
comfort  this  sweet  sentence  gives!  He 
lives,  who  once  was  dead.  He  lives, 
my  ever  living  head.  He  lives  to  bless 
me  with  his  love.  He  lives  to  plead 
for  me  above.  He  lives  my  hungry 
soul  to  feed.  He  lives  to  bless  in  time 
of  need." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "I  Know  That  My 
Redeemer  Lives." — Edwards.) 

Announcer:  Next  from  the  Choir  we 
hear  a  resurrection  text  taken  from  the 
New  Testament,  and  sung  to  the  music 
of  Franz  Joseph  Haydn:  "Hereby  per- 
ceive we  the  love  of  God,  that  He  laid 
down  His  life  for  us  ...  He  died  for 
us  .  .  .  that  we  should  live." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "He  Died  For  Us." 
— Haydn.) 

Announcer:  We  now  hear  on  this 
Church  of  the  Air  service  Elder  Harold 
B.  Lee,  educator,  distinguished  public 
servant,  and  member  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
frequently  referred  to  as  the  Mormon 
Church.  Elder  Lee  has  titled  today's 
talk:  "Courage  to  Face  the  Inevitables 
Through  Faith  in  a  Divine  Redeemer." 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


"Now  upon  the  first  day  of  the  week, 
early  in  the  morning,  the  women  c£me 
unto  the  sepulchre.  .  .  .  They  found 
the  stone  rolled  away  from  the  sepul- 
chre. And  they  entered  in,  and  found 
not  the  body  of  the  Lord  Jesus.  And 
it  came  to  pass  that  as  they  were  much 
perplexed  thereabout,  behold  two  men 
stood  by  them  in  shining  garments! 
And  as  they  were  afraid,  and  bowed 
down  their  faces  to  the  earth,  the  angel 
said  unto  them,  Why  seek  ye  the  living 
among  the  dead?  Fear  not  ye,  be  not 
affrighted;  for  I  know  that  ye  seek  Jesus 
of  Nazareth,  which  was  crucified. 

He  is  not  here,  for  He  is  risen,  as  He 
said.  Come,  see  the  place  where  the 
Lord  lay — where  they  laid  him. 

And  go  quickly  and  tell  his  disciples 
and  Peter  that  He  is  risen  from  the  dead 


— that  He  goeth  before  you  into  Gali- 
lee; there  ye  shall  see  Him.  Remember 
how  He  spoke  unto  you  while  He  was 
yet  in  Galilee  saying:  The  Son  of  Man 
must  be  delivered  into  the  hands  of 
sinful  men  and  be  crucified  and  the 
third  day  rise  again.  Lo,  I  have  told 
you."  (Matt.  28:5-7;  Mark  16:5-7;  Luke 
24:1-8.) 

Thus  do  the  writers  of  the  gospels 
of  Matthew,  Mark,  and  Luke,  record 
the  greatest  event  in  the  history  of  the 
world,  the  literal  resurrection  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  Savior  of  man- 
kind. Dramatically  had  been  demon- 
strated the  greatest  of  all  the  divine 
powers  of  an  incarnated  Son  of  God. 
He  had  declared  to  the  sorrowing 
Martha,  at  the  time  of  the  death  of 
her  brother  Lazarus:  "I  am  the  Resur- 


134 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


rection  and  the  Life  .  .  .  !  He  that 
believeth  in  me  though  he  were  dead, 
yet  shall  he  live.  .  .  1"  John  11:25.) 

To  the  Jews  with  murderous  intent, 
His  pronouncement  of  His  divine 
power  was  even  more  explicit  and 
meaningful.  "Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto 
you,  The  hour  is  coming,  and  now  is, 
when  the  dead  shall  hear  the  voice  of 
the  Son  of  God:  and  they  that  hear 
shall  live. 

"For  as  the  Father  hath  life  in  him- 
self, so  hath  He  given  to  the  Son  to 
have  life  in  Himself: 

"And  to  execute  judgment  also,  be- 
cause He  is  the  Son  of  God."  (John 
5:25-26.) 

Following  swiftly  His  own  resurrec- 
tion, there  came  an  evidence  of  a  sec- 
ond transcendent  power  to  raise  from 
the  grave,  not  only  Himself,  but  others 
"who  though  dead,  had  believed  in 
Him."  Matthew  makes  this  simple, 
forthright  record  of  the  miraculous 
resurrection  of  the  faithful,  from  mortal 
death,  "And  the  graves  were  opened; 
and  many  bodies  of  the  Saints  which 
slept  arose,  And  came  out  of  the  graves, 
after  His  resurrection,  and  walked  into 
the  holy  city  and  appeared  unto  many." 
(Matt.  27:52-3.) 

Nor  was  this  to  be  the  end  of  the 
redemptive  powers  of  this  illustrious 
Son  of  God.  Down  through  the  ages, 
in  every  dispensation,  has  come  the 
cheering  promise:  "For  as  in  Adam  all 
die  even  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be  made 
alive,"  (I  Cor.  15:22),  ".  .  .  they  that 
have  done  good  unto  the  resurrection 
of  life,  and  they  that  have  done  evil, 
unto  the  resurrection  of  damnation." 
(John  5:29.)  Time  is  rapidly  moving 
on  to  a  complete  consummation  of  His 
divine  mission. 

If  the  full  significance  of  these  thrill- 
ing events  were  understood  in  this  day 
when,  as  the  prophets  foretold:  The 
wicked  are  preparing  to  slay  the  wicked, 
and  "fear  shall  come  upon  every  man" 
(D  &  C  63:33),  this  understanding 
would  put  to  flight  many  of  the  fears 
and  anxieties  which  beset  men  and 
nations.  Indeed  if  we  "fear  God  and 
honor  the  king"  (I  Peter  2:17)  we  can 
then  lay  claim  to  the  glorious  promise 
of  the  Master:  "If  you  strip  yourselves 
from  jealousies  and  from  fear,  you 
shall  see  Me"  (D  &  C  67:10). 


In  the  brief  time  allotted  for  this 
Easter  message,  I  should  like  to  cite 
a  few  of  the  "inevitables"  which  all 
may  one  day  face,  and  draw  some 
parallels  from  sacred  writings  in  the 
hope  of  vitalizing  the  mission  of  the 
Redeemer  to  all  who  listen  and  hope- 
fully to  those  who  may  read.  This 
evidence  will  demonstrate,  to  some  ex- 
tent, how  an  unshakable  faith  in  the 
reality  of  the  resurrected  Lord  and  in 
the  certainty  of  the  resurrection  of  all 
mankind  would  provide  the  essential 
courage  to  accept  "insecurity  with 
equanimity"  in  a  material  world.  Thus 
may  all  successfully  combat  the  ap- 
prehensions and  tensions  which  are  so 
destructive  among  us  today. 

Consider  as  one  of  life's  inevitables, 
if  you  will,  the  condition  of  one  suf- 
fering from  an  incurable  malady,  or 
faced  with  the  heart-breaking  prospect 
of  impending  death  to  a  loved  one. 
Have  you  ever  felt  yourself  spiritually 
devastated  by  an  inconsolable  grief? 

May  I  take  you  to  a  sacred  scene 
portraying  one  whose  all  seemed  slip- 
ping from  her  grasp  and  let  you  feel 
her  strength  in  a  fateful  hour!  Hud- 
dled at  the  foot  of  the  cross  was  the 
silent  figure  of  a  beautiful  middle-aged 
mother  with  shawl  drawn  tightly  about 
her  head  and  shoulders.  Cruelly  tor- 
mented on  the  cross  above  her  was  her 
first-born  son.  One  can  but  feebly  un- 
derstand the  intensity  of  the  suffering 
of  Mary's  mother-heart.  She  now  faced 
in  reality  the  import  of  old  Simeon's 
doleful  prediction  as  he  had  blessed 
this  son  as  a  tiny  infant  child,  "He  shall 
be  as  a  sign  for  to  be  spoken  against; 
Yea,  a  sword  shall  pierce  thine  own 
heart  also."  (Luke  2:34-35.) 

What  was  it  that  sustained  her  dur- 
ing her  tragic  ordeal?  She  knew  the 
reality  of  an  existence  beyond  this  mor- 
tal life.  Had  she  not  conversed  with 
an  angel,  a  messenger  of  God?  She 
undoubtedly  had  heard  of  her  son's 
last  recorded  prayer  before  His  be- 
trayal as  it  has  been  written  by  John: 
"And  now,  O  Father,"  he  had  prayed, 
"Glorify  thou  me  with  thine  own 
self  with  the  glory  which  I  had  with 
thee  before  the  world  was."  (John  17:5) 
This  sainted  mother  with  bowed  head 
heard  His  last  prayer  murmured  from 
the  cross  through  tortured  lips:  "Father, 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


135 


into  Thy  hands  I  commend  My  spirit," 
(Luke  23:46)  thus  inspiring  her  with 
resignation  and  a  testimony  of  reas- 
surance of  a  reunion  shortly  with  Him 
and  with  God  her  Heavenly  Father. 
Heaven  is  not  far  removed  from  him 
who,  in  deep  sorrow,  looks  confidently 
forward  to  a  glorious  day  of  resurrection. 
It  was  a  wise  man  who  said:  "We  can- 
not banish  dangers  but  we  can  ban- 
ish fears.  We  must  not  demean  life 
by  standing  in  awe  of  death."  (Sarnoff) 

Now  to  mention  another  of  the  "in- 
evitables": As  the  press,  the  radio  and 
television  brings  to  you  daily  the 
frightening  prospect  of  devastating  war 
with  atomic  or  hydrogen  bombs  and 
guided  missiles,  are  you  filled  with 
forebodings  of  impending  doom?  What 
is  there  to  set  your  soul  free  from  such 
terrifying  anxieties? 

May  I  take  you  to  the  example  of 
Peter  whose  loyalty  to  the  Master 
seemed  to  have  exceeded  his  courage, 
when  in  the  face  of  physical  hazard, 
he  denied  the  Master  thrice  on  the 
night  of  the  betrayal.  Compare  this 
fear-torn  Peter  with  the  boldness  in  him 
manifested  shortly  thereafter  before 
those  same  religious  bigots  who  had 
so  recently  demanded  the  death  of 
Jesus.  He  denounced  them  as  mur- 
derers and  called  them  to  repentance 
— suffered  imprisonment,  and  later 
went  fearlessly  to  his  own  martyrdom. 

What  was  it  that  had  changed  him? 
He  had  been  a  personal  witness  to  the 
change  which  came  to  the  broken, 
pain-racked,  body  taken  from  the  cross, 
to  a  glorified  resurrected  body  which 
could  pass  thereafter  unhindered 
through  walls  of  mortar  and  stone, 
which  could  eat  broiled  fish  and  honey 
comb;  which  could  appear  and  dis- 
appear suddenly  from  the  sight  of 
mortals.  The  plain  and  simple  answer 
is,  that  Peter  was  a  changed  man  be- 
cause he  knew  the  power  of  the  risen 
Lord.  No  more  would  he  be  alone  on 
the  shores  of  Galilee,  or  in  prison,  or 
in  death.  His  Lord  would  be  near 
him. 

And  now  still  another  of  the  all-too- 
often  "inevitables"  among  us: 

In  the  writings  of  Luke,  just  an  in- 
ference is  made  as  to  what  may  have 
been  thought  to  be  the  reason  for 


mental  and  spiritual  turmoil  and 
which  may  have  been  as  much  in  evi- 
dence then  as  it  is  among  us  today  in 
those  who  have  advanced  degrees  in 
their  higher  learning  in  secular  fields 
but  have  neglected  spiritual  nourish- 
ment. Such  a  one,  no  doubt,  was  Saul 
of  Tarsus,  the  Apostle  Paul  to  the 
Gentiles.  During  his  interview  and 
defense  before  King  Agrippa,  Festus  who 
was  present  "said  with  a  loud  voice, 
Paul  thou  art  beside  thyself;  much 
learning  hath  made  thee  mad."  (Acts 
26:24.)  Indeed  it  may  have  seemed  so 
to  those  who  had  known  of  his  zealous 
persecution  of  the  followers  of  the 
Master,  in  contrast  to  his  now  declared 
allegiance,  to  that  Jesus  he  had  before 
so  loudly  denounced. 

The  insinuation  of  Festus  suggests 
what  higher  education  could  do  to  a 
frustrated  man,  with  but  a  smattering 
of  unrelated  bits  of  information  with 
no  unifying  philosophy.  Psychologists 
today  tell  us  that  one  such,  without  a 
belief  in  either  God  or  the  Devil,  "like 
a  blocked  body  of  water  turns  back  up- 
on itself,  collecting  scum,  refuse,  and 
silt,  so  the  soul  turns  back  upon  itself 
and  collects  instinctive,  dark  forebod- 
ings," (Peace  of  Soul)  which  makes  of 
his  days  and  nights  torture-chambers  of 
discontent. 

Years  later,  Paul  explained  to  his  be- 
loved Timothy  the  simple  formula 
which  makes  for  a  contented  soul: 
"Godliness  with  contentment  is  great 
gain,"  (I  Tim.  6:6)  and  then  explains 
the  source  from  which  that  essential 
"godliness"  comes;  "But  godliness"  he 
said,  "is  profitable  unto  all  things,  hav- 
ing promise  of  the  life  that  now  is, 
and  of  that  which  is  to  come."  (I  Tim. 
4:8.) 

That  promise  of  eternal  life  had 
given  meaning  and  purpose  to  the  life 
of  Paul  as  it  does  to  all  of  us  who  so 
believe.  He  had  heard  the  Master's 
voice  at  the  time  of  his  conversion,  de- 
claring the  reality  of  the  Resurrected 
Lord,  and  whose  teachings  by  his  au- 
thorized servants,  Paul  now  knew  were 
the  "power  of  God  unto  salvation." 

As  the  challenge  of  dictator  nations  is 
before  us  with  their  advances  in  de- 
structive military  science,  it  is  a  chal- 
lenge, of  course,  for  us  to  be  strong  in 


136 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


military  science.  We  must  beware, 
however,  lest  our  much  learning  in 
these  worldly  matters  likewise  makes 
us  mad.  It  is  also  a  challenge  for  us 
to  be  holy  through  faith  in  that  Di- 
vine Redeemer  by  whom  all  who 
obediently  serve  Him  might  be  saved. 
Atomic  power  and  guided  missiles,  are 
dangers  only  when  they  are  in  the 
hands  of  evil  men. 

And  now,  finally,  may  I  make  one 
further  reference  to  another  "inevitable" 
with  which  many  are  confronted: 

Have  you  never  stood  seemingly  de- 
feated after  years  of  gruelling  struggle 
and  faced  with  the  prospect  of  pro- 
grams, or  principles,  or  policies,  dear 
to  your  heart,  ruthlessly  condemned  to 
failure?  Why  do  some  men  commit 
suicide  when  their  bank  fails  or  their 
earthly  possessions  are  swept  away? 
Why  do  some  rise  above  the  heart- 
break of  disaster  and  calamity  while 
others  go  down  to  inglorious  and  piti- 
ful despondency  of  bitterness  as  though 
the  struggle  of  life  had  all  been  wasted? 
These  and  others  are  sobering  questions. 

I  am  indebted  to  one  of  the  leading 
educators  in  our  own  state  university 
to  impress  this  problem.  After  noting 
the  great  interest  in  industrial,  govern- 
mental, and  university  circles  in  clinical 
psychology  or  in  what  he  called  be- 
havioral science,  he  summarizes  the 
thinking  of  eminent  authorities  with 
this  significant  statement:  "This  inter- 
est derives  not  only  from  the  trend 
cited  above,  but  because  of  the  tre- 
mendous social  conflicts,  such  as  war, 
which  demonstrate  behavioral  break- 
down." (Dr.  G.  Homer  Durham) 

This  final  illustration  may  suggest  a 
solution  to  such  as  these  and  other 
similar  frustrating  problems. 

The  prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  this 
modern  day  was  facing  martyrdom  at 
the  hands  of  enemies  for  saying  that 
he  had  seen  visions  in  which  God  the 
Father  and  His  Son  and  others  who 
had  lived  upon  the  earth  had  appeared 
to  him  as  living,  resurrected,  glorified 
beings.  Like  the  Apostle  Paul,  he 
dared  not  deny  having  had  these  heav- 
enly manifestations  lest  by  so  doing  he 
would  offend  God  and  come  under 
condemnation.  (P.  of  G.  P.  p.  49.) 


In  the  midst  of  bitter  persecution 
with  his  coming  doom  already  fore- 
shadowed, the  word  of  the  Lord  came 
to  him:  "if  the  very  jaws  of  hell  shall 
gape  open  the  mouth  wide  after  thee, 
know  thou,  my  son,  that  all  these 
things  shall  give  thee  experience  and 
shall  be  for  thy  good.  The  Son  of  Man 
hath  descended  below  them  all.  Art 
thou  greater  than  He?  Therefore  hold 
thy  way  ...  for  the  bounds  (of  your 
enemies)  are  set,  they  cannot  pass.  .  .  . 
Fear  not  what  men  can  do,  for  God 
shall  be  with  you  forever  and  for- 
ever." (D  &  C  122:7-9.) 

"Let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  un- 
ceasingly; then  shall  thy  confidence  wax 
strong  in  the  presence  of  God  .  .  .  and 
thy  dominion  shall  be  an  everlasting 
dominion  "  (D  &  C  121:45-46.) 

There  you  have  your  answer,  you 
strong,  noble  statesmen  in  worldly  coun- 
cils of  men  involving  human  welfare. 
Better,  as  Paul  said  it,  "godliness  with 
contentment,"  than  an  empty  compro- 
mise for  the  sake  of  expediency  or  the 
plaudits  of  men.  You,  too,  can  know 
that  your  Redeemer  lives,  as  did  Job  in 
the  midst  of  his  temptation  to  "curse 
God  and  die,"  and  know  also  that  you, 
too,  can  open  the  door  and  invite  Him 
in  "to  sup  with  you."  See  also  your- 
selves one  day  as  resurrected  beings 
claiming  kinship  to  Him  who  gave  His 
life  that  the  rewards  to  mortal  men  for 
earthly  struggle  and  experience  will  be 
the  fruits  of  eternal  life  even  though 
as  measured  by  human  standards  ones 
life's  labors  seemed  to  have  been  de- 
feated. This  is  what  the  voice  of  wis- 
dom has  said,  "The  best  thoughts,  af- 
fections, and  aspirations  of  a  great  soul 
are  fixed  on  the  infinitude  of  eternity. 
Destined  as  such  a  soul  is  for  immor- 
tality, it  finds  all  that  is  not  eternal 
too  short,  all  that  is  not  infinite  too 
small."  (Stanford  Memorial  Chapel.) 

Today  in  commemoration  of  the 
world's  greatest  victory  I  invite  the 
honest  in  heart  everywhere  in  deep 
humility  to  rise  above  their  human 
fears  and  frustrations  and  rejoice  as 
did  the  apostle  to  the  Gentiles  "Thanks 
be  to  God  which  giveth  us  the  victory 
through  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ."  (I  Cor. 
15:57.) 

All  of  which  I  pray  for  us  and  for  all 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


137 


men  everywhere  who  seek  to  serve  Him 
and  keep  His  commandments. 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Alleluia."— Jones.) 

Announcer:  We  have  heard  an  Easter 
anthem  by  David  Hugh  Jones  sung  by 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  the  words 
of  Charles  Wesley,  "Alleluia."  "Christ 
the  Lord  is  ris'n  today!  Raise  your  joys 
and  triumphs  high,  Sing  ye  heavens  .  .  . 
and  earth  reply.  Christ  the  Lord  is 
ris'n  today." 

And  now  the  men's  chorus  of  the 
Choir  recalls  the  words  of  Eliza  R. 
Snow,  with  the  music  of  James  Mc- 
Granahan,  in  a  hymn  of  the  eternal 
journey  of  man:  "O  My  Father,  thou 
that  dwellest  in  the  high  and  glorious 
place,  When  shall  I  regain  thy  pres- 
ence And  again  behold  thy  face?  In 
thy  holy  habitation  Did  my  spirit  once 
reside?  In  my  first  primeval  childhood, 
was  I  nurtured  near  thy  side." 

(The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Choir  sang: 
"O  My  Father."— McGranahan.) 

Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir: 
"Sweet  Is  The  Work." 

Announcer:  You  have  been  attending 
CBS  Radio's  Church  of  the  Air.  To- 
day's service,  in  connection  with  the 
Annual  General  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  came  to  you  transcribed  from 
the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  through  the  facilities  of  Station 
KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  Our 
speaker  was  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee,  a 
member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles  of  the  Church.  Music  was  by 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  directed  by  Rich- 
ard P.  Condie.  Alexander  Schreiner 
was  at  the  organ. 

SALT  LAKE  MORMON 
TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN 
BROADCAST 

The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  was  presented  from  9:30  to 
10:00  a.m.  Sunday,  April  6,  1958, 
through  the  courtesy  of  the  Columbia 
Broadcasting  System's  network,  through- 
out the  United  States,  parts  of  Canada, 
and  through  other  facilities  to  several 
points  overseas.  The  broadcast  was  as 
follows: 


(The  organ  played,  "As  the  Dew 
From  Heaven  Distilling,"  and  on  signal 
the  Choir  and  organ  broke  into  the 
hymn,  "Gently  Raise  the  Sacred 
Strain,"  singing  the  words  to  the  end 
of  the  second  line,  and  humming  to 
end  of  verse  for  announcer's  back- 
ground.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  music  and 
the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  and  its 
affiliated  stations  bring  you  at  this  hour 
another  presentation  from  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  Richard 
P.  Condie  conducting  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Alexander  Schreiner,  Tabernacle 
Organist,  and  the  spoken  word  by  Rich- 
ard Evans. 

The  Choir  first  recalls  a  "Galilean 
Easter  Carol"  by  R.  Deane  Shure:  "Joy 
dawned  again  on  Easter  day;  the  sun 
shone  out  with  fairer  ray,  when  to  their 
longing  eyes  restored,  the  apostles  saw 
their  risen  Lord." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Galilean  Easter 
Carol."— Shure.) 

Announcer:  Alexander  Schreiner  takes 
first  from  the  Byzantine  sketches, 
Mulet's  stirring  music  on  a  New  Testa- 
ment text,  with  the  witness  of  Peter's 
words:  "Thou  art  the  Christ;  the  son 
of  the  living  God."  And  the  Saviour's 
reply  ".  .  .  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  re- 
vealed it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father 
which  is  in  heaven."  (Matt.  16:16-17.) 
We  hear  the  "Toccata  in  F  Sharp 
Minor." 

(Organ  selection:  "Toccata  in  F 
Sharp  Minor."—  Mulet.) 

Announcer:  With  words  written  on 
a  theme  from  Jeremiah,  William  L. 
Dawson  has  given  us  a  simple,  moving, 
sacred  song:  "There  Is  a  Balm  in  Gilead, 
to  heal  the  sin  sick  soul  .  .  .  Sometimes 
I  feel  discouraged,  And  think  my  work's 
in  vain,  But  then  the  Holy  Spirit  re- 
vives my  soul  again  ...  If  you  cannot 
sing  like  angels,  if  you  cannot  preach 
like  Paul,  You  can  tell  the  love  of  Jesus, 
And  say  'He  died  for  all'  .  .  .  There  is 
a  Balm  in  Gilead,  to  make  the  wounded 
whole.  There  is  a  Balm  in  Gilead,  to 
heal  the  sin  sick  soul." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "There  Is  a  Balm 
In  Gilead." — Dawson.) 


138 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


Announcer:  Dr.  Schreiner  turns  now 
to  the  calm  and  quieting  phrases  of 
one  of  Louis  Vierne's  organ  offerings: 
"Communion  In  E  Flat." 

(Organ  selection:  "Communion  In  E 
Flat."— Vierne.) 

Announcer: 

Every  special  day  calls  for  some 
searching  as  to  its  significance.  And 
Easter  is  no  exception.  We  are  all 
aware  of  the  outward  evidences  of  it, 
but  what  of  the  real  cause  for  its  com- 
memoration: the  resurrection  of  Jesus 
the  Christ,  our  Lord  and  our  Savior, 
who  redeemed  us  from  death.  "Super- 
natural" some  may  say,  and  in  saying 
so  may  suggest  some  unresolved  reserva- 
tions. But  what  is  or  isn't  super- 
natural? Here  we  are  alive,  on  a  planet 
suspended  in  space — a  beautiful  and 
wondrous  one,  with  sunrise  and  sunset, 
and  seedtime  and  harvest,  and  the 
changing  seasons;  and  all  that  grows, 
and  all  that  moves;  and  man  and  his 
searching  mind,  and  the  power  to  learn, 
and  the  love  of  loved  ones,  and  all  the 
evidence  of  the  planning  of  Providence. 
Is  this  natural  or  supernatural?  Per- 
haps some  would  suppose  that  the  most 
natural  thing  is  nothing.  How  did  any- 
thing— or  anyone — ever  come  to  be  in 
the  first  place?  When  was  there  a  be- 
ginning of  anything  at  all?  "Who 
wound  up  the  Universe?"  is  one  of  the 
classic  questions.  Who  organized  it — 
and  who  keeps  it  in  its  course?  You 
see,  we  live  in  the  midst  of  miracles. 
We  see  them  at  our  very  side.  The 
first  flower  of  Spring  is  a  miracle,  the 
first  bud  that  breaks  Winter's  death 
and  dormancy.  Birth  itself  is  a  miracle 
— the  awesome,  sobering  miracle  of  the 
newborn  babe — with  hands  reaching, 
with  eyes  watching,  with  ears  listening, 
and  intelligence  that  responds  to  truth. 
The  fact  that  we  live,  that  we  are,  that 
we  think  and  learn  and  love — all  this 
is  a  miracle  and  a  mystery.  Who  gave 
instinct  to  animals?  Who  gave  the  body 
widsom  to  heal  itself?  Who  gave  two 
cells  the  intelligence  to  join  and  divide, 
to  become  an  eye,  or  a  tooth,  or  the  hair 
of  the  head?  Natural?  Supernatural? 
We  recall  the  oft-quoted  question  of 
Pascal,  "Which  is  the  more  difficult,  to 
be  born,  or  to  rise  again?"1  Surely 

Blaise  Pascal,  Pensees,  XXIV. 


immortality  is  no  more  a  miracle  than 
mortality  is.  And  the  Lord  God  who 
gave  us  life  here,  can  give  us  life  ever- 
lastingly. To  the  believer  there  is  the 
blessing  of  believing,  even  of  knowing, 
beyond  belief.  To  the  doubter  let  it 
be  said:  He  cannot  know  that  the  be- 
liever does  not  know.  And  with  Job 
we  would  witness  this  day  with  a  cer- 
tainty of  assurance:  "...  I  know  that 
my  redeemer  liveth."2  And  to  those 
who  search  and  seek,  to  those  who  sor- 
row, to  those  who  are  fearful  and  frus- 
trated, to  those  who  wonder,  and  those 
who  weary  along  the  way,  this  is  the 
certainty  and  assurance  of  Easter — 
this  is  the  assurance  of  our  Savior:  that 
for  us  and  for  all  men — including  loved 
ones  who  now  seem  lost — He  did  come 
forth  from  death  to  life;  He  did  re- 
deem us  all  from  death. 
(The  Choir  sang:  "Christ  The  Lord  Is 
Ris'n  Today." — Carey.) 

Announcer:  "Abide  with  me;  'tis 
eventide!  the  day  is  past  and  gone;  The 
shadows  of  the  evening  fall;  The  night 
is  coming  on!  Within  my  heart  a  wel- 
come guest,  Within  my  home  abide; 
.  .  .  O  Savior,  stay  this  night  with  me; 
Behold,  'tis  eventide." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Abide  With  Me; 
'Tis  Eventide."— Millard.) 

Announcer:  In  closing  now  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir  gives  voice  to  a  glorious 
chorus  of  conviction — a  majestic  and 
immortal  message  from  the  Messiah — 
the  "Hallelujah  Chorus"  by  Handel. 
"Hallelujah!  for  the  Lord  God  omnipo- 
tent reigneth.  The  kingdom  of  this 
world  is  become  the  kingdom  of  our 
Lord  and  of  his  Christ;  and  he  shall 
reign  forever  and  ever — King  of  Kings, 
and  Lord  of  Lords." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Hallelujah  Chor- 
us."—Handel.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  leave  you 
within  the  shadows  of  the  everlasting 
hills.  May  peace  be  with  you,  this  day 
— and  always. 

This  concludes  the  1494th  presenta- 
tion, continuing  the  29th  year  of  this 
traditional  broadcast  from  the  Mormon 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  brought 
to  you  by  CBS  Radio  and  its  affiliated 
stations,  originating  with  Radio  Station 
KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

2Job  19:25. 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


139 


Richard  P.  Condie  conducted  the 
Tabernacle  Choir.  Alexander  Schreiner 
was  at  the  organ.  The  spoken  word 
by  Richard  Evans. 


In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  music  and  the  spoken  word  will 
be  heard  once  more  from  the  Cross- 
roads of  the  West. 


INDEX 

Page 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph    20 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present    1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained    112 

Bennion,  Elder  Lowell  L   83 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft    58 

Brown,  Elder  Hugh  B   107 

Brown,  Elder  Hugh  B   129 

(Acceptance) 

Buehner,  Bishop  Carl  W   53 

Changes  in  Church  Officers    20 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    137 

Christiansen,  Elder  EIRay  L   35 

Church  Auditing  Committee  Report    29 

Church  of  the  Air    133 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   45 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   88 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   112 

(Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers) 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   75 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   138 

(Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast) 

Financial  and  Statistical  Report    27 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting    3 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    19 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present    1 

General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained   112 

General  Priesthood  Meeting    82 

Hanks,  Elder  Marion  D   98 

Hinckley,  Elder  Gordon  B   123 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R   78 

Isaacson,  Bishop  Thorpe  B   100 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   49 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W  _   13 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B   133 

(Church  of  the  Air) 

Longden,  Elder  John    17 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R   69 

McKay,  President  David  O  _   4 

(Opening  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  0   90 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

McKay,  President  David  0   130 

(Closing  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  0  3,  4,  9,  13,  17,  19,  20,  29,  31,  32,  34, 

37,  40,  43,  44,  45,  49,  51,  53,  56,  58,  61,  62,  66,  69,  71, 

75,  78,  81,  82,  87,  88,  89,  90,  92,  93,  97,  100,  104,  107, 

110,  111,  112,  115,  119,  121,  123,  125,  129,  130,  131 


INDEX  141 

Page 

Morris,  Elder  George  Q  _   37 

Moyle,  Elder  Henry  D   62 

Obituaries    27 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E   104 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E   87 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers    112 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General   _   82 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand    40 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L    93 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L   89 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G   125 

Second  Day— Morning  Meeting   44 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   _   61 

Sill,  Elder  Sterling  W   9 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G   32 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding    29 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma   _   51 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L   115 

Statistical  and  Financial  Report   27 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers    112 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    137 

Taylor,  Elder  Henry  D   122 

Third  Day — Morning  Meeting    93 

Third  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    112 

Tuttle,  Elder  Albert  Theodore    120 

Wirthlin,  Bishop  Joseph  L   71 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E   56 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar    66 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth    31 


In  tKs  United  States  of  America 


