ONE  HUNDREDTH 
SEMI-ANNUAL 

CONFERENCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

October  4,  5,  and  6,  1929 

With  a  Full  Report  of  All 
the  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


A  BOOK  FOR  A  GIFT— GIVE  A  COPY  OF 


JOSEPH  SMITH 

The  Prophet-Teacher 

BY  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

Contains 

"Religious  and  Philosophical  Beliefs  of  One  Hundred  Years 

Ago." 

"The  Prophet's  Correction  of  Sectarian  Errors." 
"The  Prophet's  Philosophical  Doctrines." 
And  other  interesting  and  enlightening  ideas. 

Price  $1.50— Postpaid 


Latter-day  Saint  Hymns 

The  Latest  Song  Book 

For  our  choirs  and  adult  congregations  are  now  available. 

It  contains  421  songs  with  music.  Many  of  the  old  favorites  and 
a  lot  of  new  ones. 

You'll  sing  better  and  more  happily  out  of  this  new  book. 

$1.00  Postpaid 

Per  Dozen,  $11.00 
Cash  With  the  Order,  $10.00  per  doz. 

EVERY  FAMILY  SHOULD  HAVE  A  COPY 

Deseret  Book  Company 

The  Home  of  Worth  While  Books 
44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 


One  Hundredth  Semi-Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 

The  One  Hundredth  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  October  4,  5  and  6, 
1929. 

The  entire  proceedings  of  the  Conference  were  broadcast  by 
radio  for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  and 
Charles  W.  Nibley. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve:  Rudger  Clawson,  *,  George  Albert 
Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David  O.  McKay, 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Rich- 
ard R.  Lyman  and  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  **. 

Presiding  Patriarch  :f 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  J.  Golden 
Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi 
Edgar  Young,  and  Rey  L.  Pratt. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wlells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants:  Andrew  Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  and 
Junius  F.  Wells. 

Presidents  of  stakes  and  their  counselors  were  well  represented 
from  the  one  hundred  and  three  stakes  of  Zion. 

Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  Wards  and  their  counselors,  and  numerous 
high  priests,  seventies,  and  elders,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church,  were 
in  attendance.  Members  of  the  Board  of  Education,  and  general,  stake, 
and  ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations  were  present. 

Mission  Presidents  as  follows  were  in  attendance:  James  H.  Moyle, 
Eastern  States ;  Noah  S.  Pond,  Northern  States ;  Miles  L.  Jones,  East 
Central  States ;  Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States ;  Arthur  Welling, 
North  Central  States :  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  Central  States ;  Elias  S. 
Woodruff,  Western  States ;  Charles  H.  Hart,  Canada ;  William  R.  Sloan, 
Northwestern  States ;  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  California ;  Rey  L.  Pratt, 
Mexico ;  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

*Reed  Smoot  was  absent,  in  Washington,  D.  C. 

**John  A.  Widtsoe  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 

tHyrum  G.  Smith  was  absent  because  of  illness. 

tA.  William  Lund  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  British  Mission. 


FIRST  DAY 


MORNING  'MEETING 

The  opening  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at  10 
o'clock  Friday  morning,  October  4th,  the  large  auditorium  and  galleries 
of  the  great  tabernacle  being  well  occupied  with  people  from  all  parts 
of  the  Church. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Hail  to  the  Bright- 
ness of  Zion's  Glad  Morning." 

Opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Thomas  WV  Richards, 
President  of  the  Malad  Stake. 

The  hymn,  "Come,  let  us  Anew,"  was  sung  by  the  congregation. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  rejoice  in  the  opportunity  of  again  meeting  with  the  saints  in 
general  conference.  I  am  grateful  for  the  blessings  that  we  as  a  people 
have  enjoyed  during  the  past  six  months. 

As  is  customary  we  announce  in  our  opening  meeting  some  of 
the  changes  that  have  taken  place  during  this  period. 

.  '  PRESENTS  CHANGES 

Changes  in  stake  and  mission  officers  since  last  April  conference : 
New  stakes  organized: 

Moroni  stake,  formerly  a  part  of  North  Sanpete  stake,  James  L. 
Nielsen  appointed  president  of  the  new  stake. 

Sharon  stake,  formerly  a  part  of  Utah  stake,  Arthur  V.  Wlatkins 
appointed  president  of  the  new  stake. 

Stake  presidents  appointed : 

A.  Richard  Peterson  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  Emery 
stake  to  succeed  Lars  P.  Ovesen. 

Wjilford  A.  Beesley  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  Salt  Lake 
stake  to  succeed  Nephi  L.  Morris. 

Ralph  B.  Keeler  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  Juarez  stake 
to  succeed  Joseph  C.  Bentley. 

Joseph  T.  Finlinson  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  Deseret 
stake,  to  succeed  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley. 

New  mission  presidents: 

John  G.  Allred  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  North  Central 
States  mission,  and  Arthur  Welling  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

Hyrum  W.  Valentine  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  German- 
Austrian  mission,  and  Edward  P.  Kimball  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

John  P.  Lillywhite  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Nether- 
lands mission,  and  Frank  I.  Kooyman  appointed  to  succeed  him. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


Joseph  L.  Peterson  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Danish 
mission,  and  Holger  M.  Larsen  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

A  new  mission  has  been  organized  in  Czecho-Slovakia,  with 
Arthur  Gaeth  as  president: 

New  wards  organized : 

Spanish  Fork  Fifth  ward,  Palmyra  stake. 

Diamond  City  ward,  Lethbridge  stake. 


Stake  president  who  has  passed  away : 

Since  our  last  conference  President  Fred  A.  Caine  of  the  Idaho 
Falls  stake  has  passed  away.  It  fell  to  my  lot  to  labor  for  three  years 
with  Brother  Caine  in  the  Japan  mission,  and  to  be  intimately  ac- 
quainted with  him  from  then  until  the  time  of  his  death.  I  wish  to 
bear  witness  that  it  has  not  been  my  privilege  to  ever  be  associated 
with  a  more  sincere,  God-fearing,  capable,  faithful  man  than  was 
Brother  Fred  A.  Caine. 

Bishop  who  has  passed  away: 

Elmer  H.  Johnson,  Alterra  ward,  Roosevelt  stake. 

At  the  present  time  we  have : 


Independent  branches  are  presided  over  by  a  president  and  two 
counselors  and  are  practically,  to  all  intents  and  purposes,  wards ;  they 
are  not,  however,  considered  quite  large  enough  to  be  regularly  or- 
ganized as  such. 

There  are  also  at  the  present  time : 

Dependent  branches    41 

Missions    28 

Branches  in  Missions   783 

Making  in  round  numbers  nearly  2,000  organizations  in  the  Church. 


The  new  appropriations  made  to  the  stakes  and  wards  for  the 
building  of  meeting  houses  during  the  first  nine  months  of  last  year 
amounted  to  $868,125.00,  and  this  year,  for  the  same  period,  they 
amount  to  $886,780.00. 


STAKE   PRESIDENT  DIES 


Stakes 
Wards 


103 
933 
70 


Independent  branches 


APPROPRIATIONS  INCREASE 


NEW  HOTEL  ERECTED 


As  you  perhaps  all  know,  we  have  erected  a  hotel  building  on  the 
corner  opposite  this  block  on  the  southwest,  on  some  vacant  land  that  has 
been  held  by  the  Church  for  many  years.  We  feel  the  necessity  of  having 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


a  building  where  many  of  our  saints  who  come  here,  from  Canada 
to  Mexico  and  from  the  various  missions,  can  secure  accommodations 
at  a  more  reasonable  rate  than  at  the  splendid  hotel  which  we  erected 
many  years  ago,  facing  this  building  across  the  street  to  the  east. 

It  is  only  fair  to  say  to  the  people  that  we  have  not  utilized  any 
of  the  means  in  the  nature  of  tithing  that  have  come  into  the  hands  of 
the  Presidency  of  the  Church  for  the  erection  of  this  building.  Nor  only 
has  all  of  the  money  that  has  been  paid  as  tithes  during  the  last  nine 
months  been  returned  to  the  stakes  of  Zion,  but  even  more  has  been 
appropriated  to  them.  We  have  disposed  of  property  and  securities 
that  the  Church  was  in  possession  of,  in  order  to  erect  this  building  for 
the  accommodation  principally  of  our  people.  The  drafts  upon  the 
Church  have  been  far  greater  during  the  last  nine  months  than  during 
any  similar  period  while  I  have  presided  over  the  Church. 

BLESSINGS  THROUGH  PAYMENT  OF  TITHES 

I  regret  to  say  that  there  are  a  great  many  of  the  people  who  are 
not  paying  their  tithing.  To  me  it  is  a  marvel  that  any  man  having  a 
testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  as 
Latter-day  Saints  can  sing  lullabies  to  his  conscience,  figuratively 
speaking,  and  not  be  absolutely  honest  with  the  Lord  in  the  payment 
of  his  tithes. 

Tithing  is  a  law  of  God  and  the  payment  of  tithes  brings  peace  and 
joy  to  the  Latter-day  Saint  who  does  it.  There  is  a  satisfaction  that 
comes  into  the  heart  of  the  man  who  is  absolutely  honest  with  the 
Lord  in  contributing  of  his  means  to  the  building  up  of  the  Church  of 
Christ,  and  into  the  heart  of  every  true,  full  tithe-payer.  Each  and 
every  blessing  that  you  and  I  enjoy  comes  from  God.  We  are  under 
obligations  to  him  for  the  very  breath  of  life,  and  hq  gives  us  every- 
thing that  we  have.  He  asks  us  to  show  our  appreciation  and  ac- 
knowledge to  him  his  goodness,  by  returning  to  the  Church  for  its 
benefit  and  for  the  spreading  of  the  gospel  at  home  and  abroad,  one- 
tenth  of  that  which  we  receive,  all  of  which  comes  from  him. 

APPEALS  FOR  HONESTY 

Again  I  say  it  is  beyond  my  comprehension  how  any  man  who  is 
absolutely  honest  in  his  dealings  with  his  fellow  men  and  would  not 
think  of  such  a  thing  as  compromising  his  store  bill  if  he  were  able 
to  pay,  would  compromise  his  ■  obligations  to  God.  I  can  speak  upon 
the  payment  of  tithing  because  from  my  childhood  every  dollar  that 
has  come  into  my  hands  has  been  tithed,  and  I  have  endeavored  in 
addition  to  be  as  liberal  as  any  of  my  associates  have  been  in  con- 
tributing for  the  various  public  enterprises  that  have  been  required 
of  us — the  erection  of  ward  houses,  school  houses,  etc.,  etc. 

I  appeal  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  be  honest  with  the  Lord  and  I 
promise  them  that  peace,  prosperity  and  financial  success  will  attend 
those  who  are  honest  with  our  Heavenly  Father,  because  they  are  ful- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


filling  the  law  and  an  obligation,  and  he  will  bless  them  for  doing  so. 
And  being  strictly  honest  with  the  Lord  is  the  most  splendid  way  to 
teach  your  children  faith  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  most 
tender  portion  of  the  human  anatomy  of  the  male  variety  of  the 
species,  it  has  been  said,  is  the  pocket,  and  there  is  something  to  it. 
When  we  set  our  hearts;  upon  the  things  of  this  world  and  fail  to  be 
strictly  honest  with  the  Lord  we  do  not  grow  in  the  light  and  power 
and  strength  of  the  gospel  as  we  otherwise  would  do. 

WARD  AND  STAKE  BUILDINGS  DEDICATED 

It  has  fallen  to  my  lot  during  the  past  year,  in  April,  to  be  present 
and  assist  in  the  dedication  of  the  new  Hollywood  stake  and  Wilshire 
ward  building.  It  is  one  of  the  very  finest  buildings  that  we  have 
ever  erected  in  any  of  the  stakes  of  Zion  for  stake  and  ward  purposes, 
and  I  am  sure  it  will  give  us  a  very  splendid  standing  in  that  section 
of  the  country.  I  rejoice  in  the  beauty  of  the  building  and  in  the 
surroundings,  as  well  as  in  the  great  accomplishment  there. 

In  May,  I  had  the  pleasure  of  dedicating  the  Dimond  ward  chapel. 
The  Dimond  ward  is  in  the  San  Francisco  stake  of  Zion.  The 
chapel  is  a  very  beautiful  one  and  a  great  credit  tq  the  people  of  that 
ward.  I  was  astonished  that  so  small  a  ward  could  build  such  a  splendid 
building. 

VISITS  WINTERS  GRAVE 

Also  in  May  of  this  year  I  went  to  Scott's  Bluff,  Nebraska,  with 
members  of  my  family,  where  I  attended  services  in  connection  with 
the  placing  of  a  marker  by  the  Daughters  of  the  American  Revolution, 
at  the  grave  of  Rebecca  Winters.  Rebecca  Winters  died  while  crossing 
the  plains,  and  some  fifty  years  later,  the  Burlington  railroad,  in  survey- 
ing on  the  north  side  of  the  Platte  river,  came  to  a  broken  wagon  tire 
upon  which  was  chiseled  "Rebecca  Winters,  aged  fifty  years." 

They  very  kindly  made  a  detour  so  as  to  miss  the  grave,  and  the 
Burlington  Railroad  company  has  since  erected  a  fence  around  the 
grave  and  has  kept  the  ground  in  the  enclosure  in  very  nice  condition, 
having  put  down  a  well  for  the  express  purpose  of  securing  water 
with  which  to  water  the  grass  around  the  grave. 

It  has  been  my  privilege  and  that  of  my  wife  and  some  other 
members  of  our  family,  to  visit  that  spot  upon  three  different  occasions. 
On  this  last  occasion  the  Burlington  railroad  carried  ten  carloads  of 
people  from  Scottsbluff  to  the  grave,  which  is  a  mile  or  two  distant 
from  that  city.  Rebecca  Winters  was  the  daughter  of  a  Revolutionary 
soldier,  and  in  Utah,  Idaho  and  this  intermountain  country,  she  has 
nearly  six  hundred  descendants. 

NEW   STAKE  BUILDING 

In  June  I  dedicated  the  Los  Angeles  stake  building  at  Huntington 
Park.    The  chapel  and  amusement  hall  are  a  very  splendid  and  re- 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


markable  structure  and  a  very  great  credit  to  the  people.  I  rejoice 
that  we  have  it.  The  accommodations  are  very  fine  indeed,  equal,  I 
think,  to  any  of  our  stake  houses.  The  building  is  not  quite  so  ex- 
pensive as  the  one  in  Hollywood,  but  it  is  equally  as  commodious  and 
a  very  splendid  structure. 

COLORADO  RIVER  BRIDGE 

In  company  with  President  Ivins,  I  was  present  at  the  dedication  of 
the  bridge  across  the  Colorado  river,  which  will  join  Utah  and  Arizona 
more  closely  in  the  future  than  it  has  been  possible  for  them  to  be  joined 
in  the  past.  Formerly  it  required  travel  of  nearly  a  thousand  miles 
to  get  around  from  the  north  rim  of  the  Grand  Canyon  to  the  county 
seat,  in  order  to  pay  your  taxes  if  you  wanted  to  do  so  in  person, 
in  case  you  owned  property  in  what  is  known  as  the  Arizona  strip 
on  the  north  rim  of  the  canyon.  I  cart  only  hope  that  Arizona  will 
build  a  good  road  to  the  bridge  and  from  the  bridge  to  the  Utah  line, 
something  that  is  very  greatly  lacking  at  the  present  time.  It  is  about 
the  worst  piece  of  road  from  the  Utah  line  to  the  bridge  that  it  has 
fallen  to  my  lot  for  many  years  to  ride  over. 

VISITS  WARDS  AND  MISSIONS 

I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  attending  some  ward  meetings  and 
also  some  stake  conferences  during  the  past  six  months. 

In  June  I  had  the  privilege  of  dedicating  a  fine  ward  house  in 
Jerome,  Idaho.  The  people  there  have  had  a  great  struggle  through 
many  years  in  constructing  this  building.  It  was  rather  beyond  the 
capacity  of  the  small  ward,  but  the  people  have  done  themselves 
credit,  and  I  rejoice  that  the  work  is  finally  completed  and  the  building 
dedicated. 

In  July  I  visited  the  Elwood  ward  in  Bear  River  stake,  and 
dedicated  a  small  chapel  there,  which  is  a  very  creditable  structure. 
They  have  placed  pressed  bricks  around  their  old  ward  meeting  house 
and  turned  it  into  an  amusement  hall,  and  it  looks  as  fine  as  though 
it  were  an  expensive  building.  The  amusement  hall  and  chapel  are  very 
creditable,  and  I  congratulate  the  people  on  having  them. 

I  had  the  pleasure  of  visiting  the  Elmhurst  ward  in  the  San 
Francisco  stake.  I  expected  to  be  at  the  dedication  of  their  new 
building  but  was  unable  to  do  so  on  account  of  sickness  in  my  family. 

In  the  past  six  months  I  have  attended  a  meeting  in  the  San  Jose 
branch  of  the  California  mission.  We  have  a  very  good  chapel  at  San 
Jose. 

In  September  I  visited  Pittsburgh  with  President  James  H.  Moyle 
of  the  Eastern  States  mission,  and  there  dedicated  a  fine  little  chapel, 
which  is  a  very  suitable  structure  for  our  purposes. 

COAST  MEMBERS  INCREASE 

During  the  past  two  weeks  I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  speaking 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


in  the  Sacramento  branch  of  the  California  mission,  and  also  in  the 
Long  Beach  ward  of  Los  Angeles  stake.  When  I  was  in  Sacramento 
only  a  few  years  ago  we  had  only  two  hundred  members  of  the  Church 
there.  Today  we  have  over  twelve  hundred  members  fh  that  city,  and 
also  a  great  increase  in  the  number  of  Latter-day  Saints  in  Long  Beach. 

The  work  of  the  Lord  is  progressing  satisfactorily.  I  am  pleased 
to  tell  you  that  from  all  of  the  various  missions  we  are  receiving 
calls  for  more  help.  The  reports  that  we  receive  are  favorable,  and 
the  call  for  additional  missionaries,  I  believe,  comes  from  every 
mission  that  we  have.  There  are  something  over  two  thousand  of  our 
young  men  and  women  out  in  the  world  at  the  present  time  preaching 
the  gospel.  The  work  of  the  Lord  is  spreading,  and  we  are  grateful 
for  his  blessings  that  are  attending  our  labors. 

QUOTES   FROM  REVELATIONS 

In  thinking  of  what  I  would  like  to  say  today  I  was  reminded 
of  the  fact  that  probably  twice  if  not  three  times  during  the  past 
six  months  in  speaking  I  have  quoted  the  eleventh  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  I  know  of  no  finer  section,  it  being  a  revela- 
tion to  the  father  of  our  beloved  President  Joseph  F.  Smith.  Not 
only  is  it  a  revelation  to  Hyrum  Smith,  the  Patriarch,  but  the  remarks 
therein,  as  the  revelation  says,  are  applicable  to  all  the  saints  who 
have  the  right  spirit  and  desire  to  spread  the  gospel.  This  revelation 
was  given  eleven  months  before  the  organization  of  the  Church. 

When  the  Prophet  Joseph  was  engaged  in  translating  the  Book 
of  Mormon  there  were  a  great  many  leading  influential  men  who 
came  to  him  and  asked  what  the  Lord  would  like  them  to  do.  He 
inquired  of  the  Lord,  through  the  Urim  and  Thummim,  and  many 
revelations  were  received,  telling  of  the  great  and  marvelous  work 
that  was  about  to  come  forth,  and  this  is  ona  of  them.  Many  of  the 
men  desired  to  go  forth  and  preach,  but  you  will  find  that  the  Lord  tells 
them  to  wait. 

"keep  commandments" 

"A  great  and  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  among  the  children 
of  men. 

"Behold,  I  am  God;  give  heed  to  my  word,  which  is  quick  and  powerful, 
sharper  than  a  two-edged  sword,  to  the  dividing  asunder  of  both  ioints  and 
marrow ;  therefore  give  heed  unto  my  word. 

"Behold,  the  field  is  white  already  to  harvest :  therefore,  whoso  desireth  to 
reap  let  him  thrust  in  his  sickle  with  his  might,  and  reap  while  the  day  lasts, 
that  he  may  treasure  up  for  his  soul  everlasting  salvation  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

"Yea,  whosoever  will  thrust  in  his  sickle  and  reap,  the  same  is  called  of  God. 

"Therefore,  if  you  will  ask  of  me  you  shall  receive ;  if  you  will  knock  it 
shall  be  opened  umo  you. 

"Now,  as  you  have  asked,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  keep  my  commandments, 
and  seek  to  bring  forth  and  establish  the  cause  of  Zion." 

I  have  heard  a  great  deal  of  criticism  in  my  life  about  our  re- 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

peating  over  and  over  and  over  again  the  many  things  that  the  Lord 
has  revealed  to  us,  and  appealing  to  the  people  to  keep  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord.  And  yet  we  find  that  the  Lord,  in  this  revelation, 
repeats  this  declaration  time  and  time  again :  "Keep  my  command- 
ments." 

"Seek  not  for  riches  but  for  wisdom ;  and  behold,  the  mysteries  of  God  shall 
be  unfolded  unto  you,  and  then  shall  you  be  made  rich.  Behold,  he  that  hath 
eternal  life  is  rich. 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  even  as  you  desire  of  me  so  it  shall  be  done 
unto  you ;  and,  if  you  desire,  you  shall  be  the  means  of  doing  much  good  in  this 
generation." 

And  every  Latter-day  Saint  ought  to  have  a  desire  in  his  or  her  heart 
to  do  all  the  good  within  his  or  her  power  for  the  advancement  of  the 
work  of  God. 

"Say  nothing  but  repentance  unto  this  generation.  Keep  my  commandments, 
and  assist  to  bring  forth  my  work,  according  to  my  commandments,  and  you 
shall  be  blessed. 

"Behold,  thou  hast  a  gift,  or  thou  shalt  have  a  gift  if  thou  wilt,  desire  of 
me  in  faith,  with  an  honest  heart,  believing  in  the  power  of  Jesus  Christ,  or  in  my 
power,  which  speaketh  unto  thee; 

"For  behold,  it  is  I  that  speak;  behold,  I  am  the  light  which  shineth  in 
darkness,  and  by  my  power  I  give  these  words  unto  thee. 

SPIRIT  WILL  LEAD 

"And  now,  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  put  your  trust  in  that  Spirit 
which  leadeth  to  do  good — yea,  to  do  justly,  to  walk  humbly,  to  judge  righteously, 
and  this  is  my  Spirit. 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  I  will  impart  unto  you  of  my  Spirit,  which 
shall  enlighten  your  mind,  which  shall  fill  your  soul  with  joy! 

"And  then  shall  ye  know,  or  by  this  shall  you  know,  all  things  whatsoever 
you  desire  of  me,  which  are  pertaining  unto  things  of  righteousness,  in  faith 
believing  in  me  that  you  shall  receive. 

"Behold,  I  command  you  that  you  need  not  suppose  that  you  are  called 
to  preach  until  you  are  called. 

"Wait  a  little  longer,  until  you  shall  have  my  word,  my  rock,  my  Church, 
and  my  gospel,  that  you  may  know  of  a  surety  my  doctrine. 

"And  then,  behold,  according  to  your  desires,  yea,  even  according  to  your 
faith  shall  it  be  done  unto  you. 

"Keep  my  commandments:  hold  your  peace;  appeal  unto  my  Spirit;" 

PATIENCE   AND   STUDY  NECESSARY 

"Yea,  cleave  unto  me  with  all  your  heart,  that  you  may  assist  in  bringing 
to  light  those  things  of  which  has  been  spoken — yea,  the  translation  of  my  work; 
be  patient  until  you  shall  accomplish  it." 

Remember  the  Prophet  was  engaged  in  the  translation  of  the' 
Book  of  Mormon  at  this  time. 

Behold,  this  is  your  work,  to  keep  my  commandments,  yea  with  all  your 
might,  mind  and  strength. 

"Seek  not  to  declare  my  word,  but  seek  first  to  obtain  my  word,  and  then 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


shall  your  tongue  be  loosed;  then,  if  you  desire,  you  shall  have  my  Spirit  and 
my  word,  yea,  the  power  of  God  unto  the  convincing  of  men. 

"But  now  hold  your  peace ;  study  my  word  which  hath  gone  forth  among 
the  children  of  men,  and  also  study  my  word  which  shall  come  forth  among 
the  children  of  men,  or  that  which  is  now  translating,  yea,  until  you  have 
obtained  all  which  I  shall  grant  unto  the  children  of  men  in  this  generation, 
and  then  shall  all  things  be  added  thereto. 

"Behold,  thou  art  Hyrum,  my  son;  seek  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  all  things 
shall  be  added  according  to  that  which  is  just. 

"Build  upon  my  rock,  which)  is  my  gospel; 

"Deny  not  the  spirit  of  revelation,  nor  the  spirit  of  prophecy,  for  wo  unto 
him  that  denieth  these  things; 

"Therefore,  treasure  up  in  your  heart  until  the  time  which  is  in  my  wisdom 
that  you  shall  go  forth. 

"Behold,  I  speak  unto  all  who  have  good  desires,  and  have  thrust  in  their 
sickle  to  reap. 

"Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God.  I  am  the  life  and  the  light 
of  the  world. 

"I  am  the  same  who  came  unto  mine  own  and  mine  own  received  me  not; 

"But  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  that  as  many  as  will  receive  me,  to  them 
will  I  give  power  to  become  the  sons  of  God,  even  to  them  that  believe  on  my 
name.  Amen." 

A  MARVELOUS  WORK  AND  A  WONDER 

This  "marvelous  work  and  a  wonder"  has  come  to  pass  and  has 
spread  all  over  the  world  where  there  has  been  religious  liberty; 
and  from  every  land  and  from  every  clime  honest,  faithful,  God-fearing 
men  and  women  have  heard  the  sound  of  the  true  voice  of  the  shepherd 
through  his  servants  who  have  gone  forth  to  proclaim  the  gospel. 
And  men  of  great  influence  have  been  gathered  into  this  Church.  Men 
like  John  Taylor  who  presided  over  the  Church,  heard  the  gospel  in  a 
foreign  land ;  the  parents  of  George  Q.  Cannon,  and  many  other  leaders 
in  this  Church,  heard  the  sound  of  this  gospel  and  embraced  it  and 
gathered  to  Zion  and  labored  with  all  the  power  and  ability  that  they 
possessed  for  the  advancement  of  God's  kingdom.  Year  by  year  this 
great  and  wonderful  work  has  rolled  on  and  we  are  becoming  known 
as  a  God-fearing  people,  as  a  people  with  a  destiny  that  is  sure  to  be 
fulfilled. 


THANKFUL  FOR  TESTIMONY 

I  thank  God  for  a  knowledge  that  he  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  Savior  of  the  world,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  his  prophet. 
I  rejoice  in  the  knowledge  that  we  are  being  blessed  of  Almighty  God 
and  being  led  by  the  inspiration  of  his  Spirit  in  all  of-  our  labors.  May 
God  inspire  all  who  shall  speak  here  during  this  conference ;  may  we 
go  home  carrying  the  message  of  life  and  salvation  under  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Spirit  of  the  living  God  that  is  poured  out  upon  this 
occasion  during  this  conference,  is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Redeemer,  Amen. 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

"It  is  expedient  that  the  Church  meet  together  often  to  partake  of 
bread  and  wine  in  remembrance  of  the  Lord  Jesus." 

THE  JOY  OF  FRIENDSHIP 

I  came  to  this  conference  at  about  ten  minutes  to  the  opening  hour, 
and  had  the  privilege  of  greeting  many  friends,  among  whom  were'  at 
least  a  half  dozen  of  life-long  standing,  and  others  whom  I  have  met 
in  the  mission  field.  My  soul  was  made  happy  as  I  shook  hands  with 
these  dear  friends.  I  esteem  it  a  great  privilege  to  renew  the  warmth 
of  that  friendship.  Among  these  missionary  friends  is  one  who,  in 
one  sentence,  seemed  to  link  this  opening  session  of  conference  with 
those  held  in  pioneer  days.  Commenting  on  the  fact  that  he  'left  his 
home  in  Cache  valley  only  two  hours  before  he  was  sitting  in  this 
tabernacle,  he  said,  "I  have  taken  four  days  to  travel  that  distance  to 
come  to  conference  with  an  ox  team."  Just  that  remark  awakened 
renewed  appreciation  in  my  heart  for  the  work  of  our  pioneers ;  and 
it  made  me  appreciate,  too,  the  privilege  of  living  in  this  most  wonderful 
time  in  the  world's  history  when  we  have  the  enjoyment  and  blessing 
of  so  many  marvelous  inventions  and  discoveries,  particularly  the 
radio  by  means  of  which  the  British  Premier  this  morning  greeted 
the  people  of  the  United  States,  and  everybody  who  tuned  in  heard  his 
voice  instantly.  How  easily  the  gospel  may  yet  be  preached  to  every 
people ! 

.  Well,  it  is  good  to  meet  friends.  This  conference  affords  us  an 
opportunity  to  do  so;  and  our  souls  are  made  happy  as  we  shake 
each  other's  hands  in  confidence  and  brotherhood.  In  contrast,  my 
soul  is  chilled  and  my  faculties  inhibited  if  I  meet  one  who  1  think 
is  magnifying  my  weaknesses  and  who  seems  almost  to  rejoice  in 
them — who  turns  his  head  rather  than  to  shake  hands.  Such  a  man 
makes  life  chilly. 

MEETING  GQD 

In  the  house  of  God,  however,  we  have  the  opportunity  not  only 
of  meeting  friends  and  of  rejoicing  in  the  strength  and  encouragement 
that  comes  from  that  meeting,  but  also  of  meeting  God  our  Father 
through  his  Holy  'Spirit.  We  rejoice  in  his  presence.  He  is  here 
today,  and  he  has  inspired  President  Grant.  You  felt  President 
Grant's  spirit  in  his  opening  remarks,  you  felt  his  faith,  his  confidence 
in  his  brethren  and  in  this  work  of  God ;  and  if  we  had  nothing  else 
but  these  blessings  to  which  I  have  referred  we  could  go  away  with 
our  souls  well  fed. 

IN   THE   BROTHERHOOD   OF  CHRIST 

I  wonder  if  the  Lord  did  not  have  some  such  thought  as  this  in 
mind  when  he  said,  "It  is  expedient  that  the  Church  meet  together 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


11 


often."  We  meet  in  the  house  of  God  not  as  mere  acquaintances 
suspicious  of  one  another,  but  as  brethren  in  the  brotherhood  of  Christ. 
We  meet  in  the  presence  of  him  who  has  said,  "Love  one  another." 
I  look  forward  to  the  time  when  the  membership  of  our  quorums  will 
approach  their  quorum  meetings  in  anticipation  of  that  brotherhood 
and  experience  that  fraternal  feeling  which  strengthens  the  soul  and 
which  inspjres  all  to  render  greater  service  to  their  fellowmen. 

SACRAMENT  MEETINGS 

I  believe  in  meetings.  I  desire  to  say  this  morning  that  I  feel 
impressed  to  emphasize  what  the  Lord  has  designated  as  the  most 
important  meeting  in  the  Church,  and  that  is  the  sacrament  meeting. 
In  this  very  text  which  I  have  read,  given  to  Joseph  Smith  by  revela- 
tion, the  Lord  refers  to  that  special  meeting.  "It  is  expedient  that  the 
church  meet  together  often."  Not  for  these  general  purposes  to 
which  I  have  made  brief  reference,  but  for  the  specific  purpose  of  par- 
taking of  the  sacrament.  He  has  designated  a  particular  prayer  to  be 
offered  on  that  occasion.  He  has  prescribed  for  us  only  a  few  set 
prayers,  one  of  which  is  the  blessing  on  the  bread  and  water. 

THE  LORD'S  SUPPER 

Let  us  first  consider  the  importance  of  this  sacrament.  It  is  not 
the  only  sacrament  in  the  Church.  It  is  particularly  designated  "The 
Lord's  Supper."  But  if  you  will  recall  the  occasion  on  which  that 
was  given  or  instituted  you  will  agree  with  me  that  the  Lord  himself, 
the  Savior,  attached  great  importance  to  it.  He  had  met  with  his 
twelve  disciples  in  the  upper  room  in  Jerusalem  on  that  memorable 
night  of  the  betrayal.  He  had  pointed  out  the  traitor.  He  had  par- 
taken of  the  passover  with  them  in  accordance  with  the  Jewish  practice, 
and  then  he  took  bread  and  brake  it  and  said,  "Take,  eat ;  this  is  my 
body,  which  is  broken  for  you."  He  took  the  cup  and  blessed  it,  and 
said,  "Drink  ye  all  of  it  in  remembrance  of  the  blood  which  is  shed  for 
you,  and  this  do  in  remembrance  of  me  till  I  come ;  till  we  eat 
and  drink  in  the  kingdom  of  the  Father."  That  was  given  just  a  few 
hours  before  his  crucifixion.  That  alone  establishes  its  importance, 
but  if  we  put  the  proper  interpretation  upon  the  phrase  in  Corinthians, 
11th  chapter,  which  Paul  used  when  he  was  teaching  this  principle  to 
the  Corinthians,  we 'learn  further  that  the  Lord  himself  revealed  the 
significance  of  the  sacrament  to  Paul,  and  Paul  gave  specific  instructions 
to  the  Church  at  Corinth,  in  regard  to  the  partaking  of  these  important 
and  sacred  emblems.  Again  in  this  dispensation  the  Lord  revealed 
specifically  how  this  part  of  the  worship  should  be  conducted.  All 
God's  ordinances  and  ceremonies  are  sacred  but  it  seems  to  me  that  there 
is  more  importance  attached  to  this  than  perhaps  to  any  other  sacra- 
ment or  ceremony  in  the  Church  of  Christ.   So  much  for  its  importance. 

THE  SIGNIFICANCE  OF  THE  SACRAMENT 

Now.  what  does  it  signify?  You  will  find  first  that  the  sacrament 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


is  a  memorial  of  Christ's  life  and  death.  When  we  think  of  his  life 
we  think  of  sacrifice.  Not  a  moment  of  his  existence  on  earth  did 
Christ  think  more  of  himself  than  he  did  of  his  brethrenand  the  people 
whom  he  came  to  save,  always  losing  himself  for  the  good  of  others, 
and  finally  giving  his  life  for  the  redemption  of  mankind.  When 
we  partake  of  the  sacrament  in  his  presence  we  remember  him,  his  life 
of  sacrifice,  and  service ;  and  we  are  inspired  by  that  thought  and 
memory.  There  is  nothing  won  in  this  life  without  sacrifice.  I  am 
thrilled  when  I  study  carefully  any  principle  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  find  that  it  is  part  of  the  whole,  or  rather  that  it  compre- 
hends the  whole.  Truly,  truth  is  the  sum  of  existence.  So  we  can 
associate  this  sacrament,  with  all  truth,  all  life.  It  is  all-comprehensive. 
No  thing  worth  while  is  obtained  in  this  life  without  sacrificing,  without 
putting  forth  effort.  The  evil  one  thrusts  things  upon  us  but  God 
asks  us  to  reach  out  and  get  that  which  he  offers.  "Teach  self-denial," 
says  Walter  Scott,  "and  make  it  pleasurable,  and  you  create  for  the 
world  a  destiny  more  sublime  than  ever  issued  from  the  brain  of  the 
wildest  dreamer." 

THE  BOND  OF  BROTHERHOOD 

A  second  significance  or  a  second  principle  associated  with  the 
administering  of  the  sacrament  is  the  bond  of  brotherhood  to  which  I 
have  made  mention.  In  the  early  establishment  of  the  Church  of 
Christ  the  brethren  met,  we  are  told,  often  at  day-break,  to  partake 
of  this  sacrament  as  in  the  bond  of  brotherhood,  of  oneness.  They 
met,  as  it  were,  under  oath,  comparatively  as  the  Roman  soldiers  were 
bound  in  unit.  In  the  Church  at  Corinth,  when  Paul  wrote  to  them 
regarding  their  abuse  of  this  holy  sacrament,  they  held,  previous  to 
the  administering  of  the  sacrament,  a  love  feast  in  which  the  rich  and 
the  poor  met.  They  brought  their  food  with  them, — the  rich  plenty, 
of  which  the  poor  partook.  That  was  at  the  beginning,  carrying  out 
the  passover  and  the  sacrament  which  followed.  But  when  Paul  wrote 
to  them  he  found  that  those  who  had  plenty  were  eating  by  themselves 
and  those  who  were  poor  had  nothing.  This  practice  he  condemned, 
saying  that  it  was  not  part  of  the  sacrament.  He  told  them  to  satisfy 
their  appetites  and  partake  of  the  sacrament  in  remembrance  of  the  body 
and  blood  of  the  Christ. 

However,  the  element  of  brotherhood  has  been  associated  with  it 
always.  I  remember  when  I  was  a  boy  that  there  was  emphasized 
even  more  than  we  hear  emphasized  now  the  necessity  of  no  one's 
partaking  of  the  sacrament  who  had  ill  feelings  toward  another, 
and  I  have  heard  more  than  one  man  say:  "I  am  sorry  that  I  hurt 
brother  so-and-so's  feelings,  and  I  ask  his  forgiveness."  He  felt  it 
necessary  to  do  that  before  he  was  worthy  to  partake  of  the  sacrament 
of  the  Lord's  Supper. 

We  meet  in  the  brotherhood  of  Christ,  all  on  the  same  level,  each 
expressing  confidence  in  the  other  and  all  in  one  another.  Oh,  the 
strength  of  brotherhood !  Sin  divides  us.    Righteousness  unites. 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


13 


COMMUNION  WITH  CHRIST 

The  partaking  of  the  sacrament  indicates  also  how  communion 
with  Christ  may  be  secured.  It  cannot  be  obtained  by  Sunday  righteous- 
ness and  week-day  indulgence.  It  implies  that  we  will  remember 
Christ  always.  "If  we  show  the  Lord's  death  at  communion  we  must 
show  the  Lord's  life  in  the  world." 

DIVINE  GUIDANCE 

And  the  fourth  great  significance  is  the  promise  that  it  is  a  means 
of  receiving  divine  guidance.  "If  a  friend  is  one  who  summons  us  to 
our  best,  then  is  not  Jesus  Christ  our  best  friend?  and  should  we  not 
think  of  the  communion  as  one  of  the  chief  appeals  to  us  to  be  our  best? 
The  Lord's  Supper  looks  not  back  to  our  past  with  a  critical  eye,  but  to 
our  future  with  a  helpful  one." 

THE  SACRAMENT  PRAYER 

May  I  call  attention  to  the  great  obligation  which  every  member 
of  the  Church  assumes  when  he  first  partakes  of  the  sacrament  on 
the  Lord's  day.  Think  of  the  prayer  revealed  in  this  dispensation : 
"Oh,  God  the  Eternal  Father."  What  an  invocation !  An  acknowledg- 
ment of  God  as  our  Creator ;  the  giver  of  all  good ;  the  bestower  of  all 
blessings ;  in  whom  is  all  power  and  all  glory ;  and  yet,  our  Father, 
and  we  his  children.  '  The  Fatherhood  of  God  and  the  brotherhood  of 
man !  "We  ask  thee  in  the  name  of  thy  beloved  son  Jesus  Christ,"  who 
is  interceding  for  us,  through  whom  all  blessings  are  obtained, — "to 
bless  and  sanctify  this  bread  to  the  souls  of  all  those  who  partake  of  it." 

Bless  the  bread !  It  is  only  bread.  There  may  be  a  mystery  about 
the  sacrament,  but  that  mystery  does  not  consist  in  the  changing  of 
that  bread  to  the  actual  body  of  the  Christ.  As  President  Brigham 
Young  has  said,  the  thought  is  a  repulsive  one.  But  it  is  a  symbol,- 
and  we  ask  God  to  bless  it  to  the  souls  of  all  those  who  partake  of 
it,  who  witness  —  oh,  there  is  the  point.  Recall  in  this  regard 
President  Grant's  appeal  this  morning  to  be  honest  with  the  Lord 
in  all  your  dealings.  What  a  fundamental  virtue  is  honesty!  the 
roundation  of  all  character.  It  is  said  to  be  the  mother  of  a  whole 
family  of  true  virtues.  Well,  that  principle  is  associated  with  this  great 
sacrament.  We  witness,  that  is,  solemnly  covenant  in  the'  presence  of  one 
another,  in  that  great  assembly,  and  "unto  thee,  O  God  the  Eternal 
Father"— What? 

A  GENTLEMAN'S  WORD  OF  HONOR 

Before  we  specify,  think  of  what  it  means  to  make  a  promise. 
Your  word  is  more  sacred  than  your  bond.  I  like  to  think  of  that 
English  gentleman  who,  finding  himself  distressed  financially,  borrowed 
from  a  friend,  to  whom  he  gave  his  written  note ;  but  before  the  gentle- 
man received  his  competence,  he  was  again  in  financial  distress  and 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


borrowed  from  another  friend,  to  whom  he  gave  only  his  promise. 
Both  these  lenders  knew  when  the  gentleman  received  his  money  and 
both  called  for  the  return  of  their  money.  The  first,  who  held  the 
gentleman's  note,  was  surprised  to  hear  the  gentleman  say,  "I  will  pay 
the  second  first."  The  first  one  protested  saying,  "I  loaned  you  that 
money  first,  your  lordship." 

"Yes,  that  is  true,  replied  the  English  gentleman,  but  you  hold 
my  note.  This  friend  has  only  my  word  of  honor.  I  will  redeem  my 
promise  first." 

The  first  gentleman  taking  the  note  from  his  pocket,  tore  it  into 
pieces,  threw  it  into  the  waste-basket,  and  said,  "There,  your  lordship,  I 
have  only  your  promise." 

"Since  you  place  it  upon  that  basis  you  shall  have  your  money 
first." 

A  mere  incident  emphasizing  the  importance  that  a  gentleman 
places  upon  his  word  of  honor. 

OUR  OBLIGATION 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  do  we  always  stop  to  think,  on  that  sacred 
Sabbath  day  when  we  meet  together  to  partake  of  the  sacrament,  that 
we  witness,  promise,  obligate  ourselves,  in  the  presence  of  one  another, 
and  in  the  presence  of  God,  that  we  will  do  certain  things?  Note 
them.    I  have  time  merely  to  mention  them. 

The  first :  That  we  are  willing  to  take  upon  ourselves  the  name  of 
the  Son.  In  so  doing  we  choose  him  as  our  leader  and  our  ideal ;  and 
he  is  the  one  perfect  character  in  all  the  world.  It  is  a  glorious  thing 
to  be  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Christ  and  to  be  called  a  Christian 
in  the  true  sense. of  the  term;  and  we  promise  that  we  should  like  to 
be  that,  that  we  are  willing  to  do  it. 

Secondly,  that  we  will  always  remember 'him.  Not  just  on  Sunday, 
but  on  Monday,  in  our  daily  acts,  in  our  self-control.  When  our 
brother  hurts  us  we  are  going  to  try  to  master  our  feelings  and  not 
retaliate  in  the  same  spirit  of  anger.  When  a  brother  treats  us  with 
contempt  we  are  going  to  try  to  return  kindness.  That's  the  spirit 
of  the  Christ  and  that's  what  we  have  promised, — that  we  will  do  our 
best  to  achieve  these  high  standards  of  Christianity,  true  Christian 
principles. 

The  third :  We  promise  to  "keep  the  commandments  which  he  has 
given."  Tithing,  fast  offerings,  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  kindness,  for- 
giveness, love.  The  obligation  of  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Christ 
is  great,  but  it  is  as  glorious  as  it  is  great,  because  obedience  to  these 
principles  gives  life,  eternal  life.  On  the  other  hand,  the  man  who 
seeks  to  live  by  violating  the  principles  is  deceived  by  the  adversary 
and  goes  the  way  to  death. 

ADDING  SIN  TO  SIN 

To  partake  of  the  sacrament  unworthily  is  to  take  a  step  toward 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


15 


spiritual  death.  No  man  can  be  dishonest  within  himself  without 
deadening  the  susceptibility  of  his  spirit.  Sin  can  stun  the  conscience 
as  a  blow  on  the  head  can  stun  the  physical  senses.  He  who  promises 
one  thing  and  deliberately  fails  to  keep  his  word,  adds  sin  to  sin.  On 
natural  principles  such  a  man  "eats  and  drinks  condemnation  to  his 
soul." 

We  die  in  this  world  before  our  hearts  stop  beating,  as  we  live 
and  partake  of  eternal  life  before  we  pass  into  the  other  world ;  for  this 
is  part  of  life  eternal,  and  true  life  consists  in  obedience  to  the  principles 
of  the  gospel.   We  promise  every  Sabbath  day  to  keep  those  principles. 

I  THE  BLESSING 

And  what  is  the  blessing?  "That  they  may  always  have  his  Spirit 
to  be  with  them."  What  a  divine  guidance !  And  I  testify  to  you  that 
divine  inspiration  is  a  reality.  Men  and  women  who  obey  the  principles 
of  life  and  salvation,  sincerely  repent  of  their  sins,  and  as  sincerely  strive 
to  live  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  are  guided  and 
inspired  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  are  shown  things  to  come.  I  testify 
that  that  guidance  is  with  this  Church  and  has  been  since  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  established  it.  I  bear  you  witness  too,  that  this  Church 
is  the  power  of  God  unto  'salvation,  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

SUMMING  UP 

To  sum  up  then,  the  operation  of  the  law  of  cause  and  effect  is 
as  constant  in  the  spiritual  realm  as  it  is  in  the  material  world.  You 
obey  the  principle  and  you  receive  the  blessing,  and  the  keeping  of 
each  promise  made  in  relation  to  the  sacrament  brings  the  results  and 
the  blessings  as  sure  as  the  sun  brings  light.  Order,  reverence,  attention 
to  divine  promises, — the  promise  to  enter  into  the  fold  of  Christ,  to 
cherish  virtues  mentioned  in  the  gospel  of  Christ,  to  keep  them  ever 
in  mind,  to  love  the  Lord  whole-heartedly,  and  to  labor,  even  at  the 
sacrifice  of  self,  for  the  brotherhood  of  man — these  and  all  kindred 
virtues  are  associated  with  the  partaking  of  the  Lord's  supper.  It  is 
good  to  meet  together  and  especially  to  renew  our  covenants  with  God 
in  that  holy  eucharist.  "Help  us  O,  God,  to  realize  the  great  atoning 
sacrifice,  the  gift  of  thy  beloved  Son,  the  Prince  of  peace,  the  Holy  One." 

GRATITUDE  FOR  MEMBERSHIP  IN  THE  CHURCH 

My  heart  is  full  of  rejoicing  this  morning  for  my  membership 
in  the  Church,  for  the  privilege  I  have  of  meeting  you  my  fellow 
workers  in  the  Church  of  Christ.  I  prize  the  privilege  of  associating 
with  the  First  Presidency  of  this  Church  and  the  Twelve  Apostles, 
the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric  and  the 
Stake  Presidencies.  Oh,  it  is  a  glorious  thing  to  be  one  in  the  brother- 
hood of  Christ!  God  strengthen  us  that  we  may  go  out  and  make  the 
sacrament  each  Sunday  that  we  partake  of  it  what  God  intends  it  to  be, 
— the  means  of  strengthening  the  saints,  of  eradicating  ill  will,  hard 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


feelings  and  back-biting,  of  establishing  unity,  love  and  strength,  and 
keeping  the  commandments  of  God,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  President  of  the  California  Mission 

I  esteem  this  a  very  great  privilege,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and 
at  the  same  time,  at  this  moment,  it  is  a  very  great  surprise.  I  am 
thankful,  however,  that  I  feel  in  my  soul  that  I  am  in  harmony  with 
the  counsels  that  have  already  been  imparted  in  this  conference  and  that 
I  believe  most  sincerely  in  the  doctrines  that  have  been  presented  for 
our  consideration. 

I  come  up,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  from  the  mission  field  in 
California,  where  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  laboring  for  some  time 
in  seeking  to  spread  the  truth  as  it  has  been  revealed  in  the  dispensation 
in  which  we  live.  I  am  happy  to  be  associated  with  the  young  men 
and  women  who  have  been  assigned  to  that  field  of  labor.  Generally 
speaking,  the  missionaries  are  all  young  men,  or  young  women.  Oc- 
casionally, through  the  system  that  has  been  introduced  during  recent 
years,  a  few  men  of  experience  and  one  or  two  women  of  experience 
have  come  into  the  California  Mission,  as  short  term  missionaries. 
We  have  rejoiced  very  greatly  in  the  companionship  of  these  men  and 
women  who  have  had  development  and  experience  for  a  goodly  period 
of  time  in  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

You  have  just  learned  from  the  remarks  made  by  President  Heber 
J.  Grant  that  California  has  been  blessed  with  his  presence  and  with 
his  ministry,  both  in  the  stakes  that  have  been  established  in  that  great 
state,  and  in  the  branches  that  belong  to  the  California  Mission.  The 
people  are  always  glad  in  their  hearts  when  they  have  the  privilege  of 
meeting  with  the  President  of  the  Church,  and  of  listening  to  his 
testimony  which  has  always  been  so  strong  and  sure  that  the  work 
which  is  under  his  direction  as  the  President  of  the  Church  has  been 
revealed  and  established  by  the  Lord  our  God. 

We  have  been  blessed  just  recently,  for  about  five  months,  with  the 
presence  of  Doctor  James  E.  Talmage,  who  has  been  giving  some  very 
remarkable  and  inspiring  discourses  over  the  radio  in  Los  Angeles; 
and  many  people,  we  have  discovered,  who  are  not  of  our  faith,  have 
been  giving  attention  to  those  discourses.  We  have  not  only  rejoiced 
in  his  ministry,  as  he  has  delivered  the  word  of  the  Lord  and  the 
doctrines  of  the  gospel  over  the  radio,  but  we  have  rejoiced  also  in  his 
companionship  in  the  wards,  and  in  the  branches,  that  he  has  visited 
quite  thoroughly  throughout  the  state  of  California.  We  feel  that 
we  have  been  very  greatly  blessed  by  his  presence,  by  his  counsel, 
and  by  the  doctrines  that  he  has  presented  for  the  consideration  of  the 
people,  both  members  and  non-members  of  the  Church. 

We  have  been  blessed  also  with  the  ministry  of  Brother  George 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 


17 


Albert  Smith,  of  the  Council  of  the  Apostles,  who  was  appointed 
in  the  early  part  of  the  year  to  visit  the  California  Mission.  He  gave 
counsel  that  was  very  greatly  to  the  advantage  of  the  people  who  make 
up  the  membership  of  the  Church  in  the  mission. 

I  am  glad,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  our  faith  in  the  work  of 
God  remains  unshaken,  and  we  feel  from  our  experiences  that  we 
receive  constantly  renewed  evidences  confirming  the  truth  as  it  has  been 
revealed.  I  was  impressed  with  the  wonderful  character  of  the  work 
established  in  this  dispensation,  in  reading  in  the  editorial  column  of 
the  Los  Angeles  Examiner  of  Sunday,  September  29th, 

"The  great  majority  of  preachers  no  longer  teach  that  the  earth  as  we 
know  it,  was  created  merely  by  the  expression  of  Divine  Will  in  a  period 
of  six  days.  Practically  all  religious  teachers  now!  interpret  the  six  days  to 
mean  six  PERIODS  OF  TIME,  six  'geological  ages'  reaching  over  periods 
inconceivable  to  our  mind." 

When  I  read  this,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  could  not  but  feel 
how  wonderful  are  the  inspired  teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  who  in  no  way  professed  to  have  scientific  information,  but 
who  always  taught  that  he  delivered  the  word  of  the  Lord  as  thaltf 
word  was  given  to  him.  It  surely  is  wonderful  that  he  should  have 
declared  almost  at  the  very  opening  of  this  dispensation,  that  which  is 
now  beginning  to  dawn  upon  the  minds  of  men  in  relation  to  the 
creation  of  the  world.  The  Prophet  taught  this  doctrine  very  clearly, 
as  you  can  read  in  the  Pearl  of1  Great  Price.  I  do  not  know  just  how 
long  ago  the  Book  of  Abraham  was  translated.  I  have  in  my  possession 
a  copy  of  that  work  that  I  believe  was  published  in  Liverpool  in  1851. 
so  it  has  been  in  print  for  a  long  period  of  time.  Surely  the  lad  Joseph 
Smith,  the  farmer's  youth,  the  man  without  scholastic  attainment, 
could  not  have  conceived  of  the  great  truth  to  which  I  have  referred,  and 
taught  it  so  correctly,  had  it  not  been  impressed  upon  him  by  the 
inspiration  and  revelation  of  the  Lord  our  God. 

I  am  happy  to  say,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  are  endeavoring 
to  the  best  of  our  ability  to  declare  the  glad  tidings  of  great  joy  that 
have  been  revealed  for  the  salvation  of  the  human  family.  We  believe 
most  devoutly  in  the  mission  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world ;  that  he  is  the 
very  Son  of  God ;  that  he  in  his  time,  chose  mortal  men  and  conferred 
upon  them  the  authority  of  priesthood,  the  power  to  minister  in  his 
own  great  name  and  in  the  name  of  the  Eternal  Father.  He  sent 
those  men  forth  to  preach  the  gospel,  gave  them  commandment  to  go 
into  all  the  world  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature,  and  made 
the  promise  that  every  soul  who  would  hearken,  who  would  accept  of 
the  message,  should  find  salvation  in  the  presence  of  God;  and  of 
course,  those  who  would  not  accept  would  take  the  consequences  of 
condemnation.  We  believe,  and  we  teach  to  our  fellow  men,  that  in  thi? 
last  dispensation,  in  fulfillment  of  the  promises  that  have  been  made  by 
the  mouths  of  holy  prophets,  that  same  Eternal  Father,  that  same  Re- 
deemer of  the  world,  have  sent  holy  messengers  to  confer  upon  mortal 
men  the  authority  of  priesthood ;  and  by  that  authority,  it  having  been 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


given  to  us  by  new  revelation  in  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times, 
we  go  out  among  the  people,  not  because  of  the  commission  given  to  the 
apostles  in  the  meridian  of  time,  but  because  the  Lord  God  of  heaven  has 
said  to  men  in  this  dispensation,  "Go  ye  into  all  the  world  and  preach  the 
gospel  to  every  creature."  I  am  very  happy  to  say  the  missionaries 
so  teach,  although  it  may  be  at  times  in  halting  words,  and  in  fear  and 
trembling.  Men  and  women  are  delivering  this  message  and  are  bearing 
witness  that  through  the  power  of  God,  through  the  inspiration  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  they  know  whereof  they  speak.  I  thank  the  Lord 
that  I  have  the  confidence  in  my  own  soul  that  I  am  not  preaching  the 
doctrine  of  men.  I  am  not  laboring  for  the  glory  of  man  nor  for 
the  plaudits  of  men.  I  am  laboring  in  the  fear  of  God,  because  upon 
me  that  divine  authority  has  been  conferred,  and  I  am  under  obligation 
to  cry  repentance,  to  the  best  of  my  power,  among  the  children  of  men 
and  to  help  lead  men,  if  possible,  from  the  darkness  that  is  in  the 
world,  to  the  truth  that  has  been  revealed.  In  doing  that,  with  my 
companions,  I  have  partaken  of  that  joy  with  them  that  passeth  under- 
standing, and  we  do  know  that  we  are  trying  to  bring  to  mankind  a 
glorious  message  that  is  for  their  benefit  and  salvation. 

May  God  help  us  all  to  love  the  truth,  believe  in  it  and  maintain 
it  in  our  conduct  here  and  in  our  speech  before  the  people  for  ever 
and  ever,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

Of  the  First  Council1  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  may  have  the 
benefit  of  your  faith  and  prayers  and  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may 
actuate  me  while  I  shall  speak  to  you  for  a  few  moments  this  morning. 
Sometimes  we  are  so  taken  by  surprise  that  our  breath  nearly  leaves 
us ;  but  I  have  an  implicit  and  abiding  faith  in  the  Lord  that  if  we  put 
our  trust  in  him  and  labor  to  the  best  of  our  ability  he  will  prepare 
the  way  for  us  whereby  we  may  accomplish  the  things  that  he  commands 
us  to  do. 

I  take  it,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that,  as  people  having  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  and  a  testimony  of  it,  the  Lord  calls  upon  us  to  bear 
that  testimony  and  make  known  his  word  to  the  world,  and  to  bear 
testimony  one  to  another  of  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  and  the  knowl- 
edge that  has  come  to  us  concerning  this  great  gospel  plan  that  is 
instituted  in  the  world  for  the  salvation  of  men. 

During  the  past  six  months  my  mind  has  been  centered  very  much 
upon  the  Book  of  Mormon.  It  has  fallen  to  my  lot  to  publish  an  edition 
of  that  book  in  the  Spanish  language.  Our  work  is  now  completed, 
so  far  as  the  printing  of  the  book  is  concerned.  I  think  the  last  form 
was  printed  yesterday,  and  we  have  now  only  the  binding  to  attend  to. 
We  shall  soon  have  in  circulation  the  third  edition  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon  in  the  Spanish  language.    My  hope  and  desire  is  that  this 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


19 


edition  may  soon  be  exhausted  and  that  the  circulation  of  that  book 
amgng  the  Spanish-speaking  people  may  increase,  for  in  the  Spanish 
language  are  to  be  reached  the  descendants,  many  millions  of  them, 
of  those  people  who  wrote  the  book.  It  seems  to  me  that  in  the  work 
that  I  have  been  engaged  in — getting  out  this  particular  edition  of  the 
book — there  has  come  a  vision  of  a  very  wide  distribution  of  that  book 
among  the  seed  of  Father  Lehi,  who  dwell  in  the  land  south  of  us. 
Many  thousands  of  copies  have  been  distributed  in  the  past,  and  a  very 
great  many  people  have  been  made  to  know  of  the  truthfulness  of  that 
record. 

In  this  connection  my  mind  reverts  to  the  promise  of  the  great 
Prophet  Moroni  concerning  the  obtaining  of  a  testimony  of  the  divinity 
of  that  book,  and  I  should  like  to  read  that  to  you  this  morning.  You 
will  find  it  recorded  in  the  tenth  chapter  of  the  book  called  Moroni : 

"And  now  I,  Moroni,  write  somewhat  as  seemeth  me  good ;  and  I  write 
unto  my  brethren,  the  Lamanites,  and  I  would  that  they  should  know  that  more 
than  four  hundred  and  twenty  years  have  passed  away  since  the  sign  was  given 
of  the  coming  of  Christ. 

"And  I  seal  up  these  records,  after  I  have  spoken  a  few  words  by  way  of 
exhortation  unto  you. 

"Behold,  I  would  exhort  you  that  when  ye  shall  read  these  things,  if  it  be 
wisdom  in  God  that  ye  should  read  them,  that  ye  would  remember  how 
merciful  the  Lord  hath  been  unto  the  children  of  men,  from  the  creation  of 
Adam  even  down  until  the  time  that  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  and  ponder  it 
in  your  heart. 

"And  when  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye  would 
ask  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things  are  not  true ; 
and  if  ye  shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  having  faith  in  Christ, 
he  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

"And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ye  may  know  the  truth  of  all  things." 

I  have  always  believed  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  Before  I  ever  read  the  Book  of  Mormon,  I  believed  that  it 
was  a  divine  record.  It  was  taught  to  me  by  my  parents,  and  it  was 
taught  to  me  in  the  Sunday  School  and  in  the  Primary  classes  that  I 
attended  as  a  little  boy.  I  have  read  this  book  many,  many  times. 
It  seems  to  me  that  I  have  considered  it  from  most  every  angle ;  and, — ■ 
I  say  it  with  a  great  deal  of  thankfulness, — I  have  been  placed  in  a 
position  in  my  missionary  labors  to  challenge  the  book  from  an  archa- 
eological standpoint,  and  have  been  able  to  see  firsthand  the  re- 
mains of  former  civilizations  that  have  dwelt  upon  this  continent. 
I  have  stood  in  the  shadows  of  the  mighty  ruins  of  the  past,  that  are 
stupendous  in  their  magnitude  and  in  their  grandeur.  I  have  visualized 
the  people  that  built  those  great  buildings,  and  it  has  seemed  to  me, 
beyond  any  question  of  a  doubt,  that  they  could  justly  be  associated 
with  the  Book  of  Mormon  people.  From  that  angle  has  come  to  me 
a  great  bolstering  faith  and  knowledge  that  the  Book  of  Mormon 
is  true.  I  have  thought  that  I  had  read  it  with  a  prayerful  heart  in 
years  that  have  passed,  and  felt  sure  that  I  had  received  the  inspiration 
of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  that  this  book  is  a  divine  record.  But  I  wish 
to  bear  you  my  testimony  that  during  the  last  few  months,  since  May, 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


especially,  when  I  have  been  so  particularly  engaged  in  bringing  out 
this  work,  I  have  prayed  to  the  Lord  anew  that  he  would  evidencento 
me,  even  more  strongly  than  ever  before,  if  such  were  possible,  the 
divinity  of  this  work;  and  I  stand  before  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
and  testify,  after  having  read  the  bt)ok  five  consecutive  times  since 
May,  that  I  know  beyond  all  doubt  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  what 
it  purports  to  be.  It  is  the  divine  record  of  a  forgotten  people,  brought 
forth  through  the  instrumentality  of  Joseph  Smith.  The  Holy  Ghost 
has  witnessed  this  unto  me  and  I  wish  that  I  could  make  you  sense 
the  spirit  in  which  I  feel  it.  It  is  consuming  in  its  nature.  It  makes 
me  tremble  to  contemplate  what  this  knowledge  means  to  me. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  one  of  the  greatest 
works  in  all  the  world.  With  the  witness  that  I  speak  of  there  has 
come  to  me  other  knowledge,  without  which  the  testimony  of  the 
divinity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  would  not  be  of  much  value ;  but,  the 
Book  of  Mormon  being  true,  the  truthfulness  of  it  having  been  borne 
in  upon  my  soul,  I  know  through  that  as  one  medium — and  I  know, 
it  through  other  mediums — that  God  lives  as  an  entity,  a  tangible 
being,  in  whose  form  I  am  fashioned  and  in  whose  likeness  I  am  made.  I 
know,  beyond  all  peradventure  of  a  doubt,  that  he  is  in  very  deed  my 
Father,  that  I  can  call  upon  him  as  such,  and  that  when  I  come  before 
him  in  prayer,  in  sympathy,  he  will  hear  ;  and  if  my  players  are  for  right- 
eous things  he  will  grant  unto  me  those  things  for  which  I  ask. 
Through  this  book,  knowing  that  it  is  true,  I  also  have  this  witness,  and 
to  me  it  is  valid,  that  Jesus  is  the  Son  of  God ;  that  he  is  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world ;  that  he  was  born  of  woman  and  lived  in  the  world  among 
men  and  ministered  unto  them  and  established  the  gospel ;  that  he  was 
nailed  upon  a  cross  and  suffered  for  the  sins  of  all  men,  redeemed  them 
from  the  grave,  broke  the  bonds  of  death,  and  instituted  the  resurrection, 
becoming  the  first  fruits  of  it;  and  he  lives,  for  this  book  testifies  that 
he  lives. 

I  know,  by  this  same  process  of  reasoning,  that  if  the  book  is  true, 
he,  through  whose  instrumentality  it '  was  brought  forth,  is  and  was 
a  prophet  of  God.  So  I  have  no  hesitancy  in  testifying  that  Joseph 
Smith,  the  man  whom  the  Lord  chose  to  bring  forth  this  book,  and 
to  open  up  this  greatest  of  all  gospel  dispensations,  was  his  prophet 
and  that  he  spoke  as  a  chosen  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God.  If  he 
was  a  prophet  of  God,  the  revelations  that  through  him  have  come 
and  which  are  recorded  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  are  likewise 
the  word  of  God.  If  he'  were  instrumental  in  the  hands  of  God  in 
translating  this  great  work,  which  is  true,  he  was  likewise  instrumental 
in  the  hands  of  God  in  bringing  forth  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  and 
the  precious  gems  of  religious  thought,  knowledge  and  history,  that 
we  have  in  that  wonderful  book  which  constitutes,  with  the  Bible, 
the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  standard 
Church  works  to  which  we  refer  in  points  of  doctrine  and  in  points  of 
history  pertaining  to  the  Lord's  great  work  in  the  world. 

I  know  that  these  things  are  true,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  I 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


21 


rejoice  in  them,  and  I  have  an  abiding  faith  and  a  strong  testimony, 
that  is  as  strong  as  my  knowledge  that  I  live  and  speak  to  you  today, 
that  not  only  was  Joseph  Smith  a  prophet  of  the  Lord,  but  that  each 
one  who  has  succeeded  him  in  the  presidency  of  this  Church  is  likewise 
and  has  been,  a  prophet  of  the  Lord. 

I  bear  you  my  witness,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  know  that 
the  gospel  is  "upon  the  earth  and  that  God's  Church  exists,  fully  or- 
ganized and  fully  authorized.  There  has  been  a  restoration  of  the  holy 
priesthood.  There  has  been  a  restoration  of  the  keys  of  the  kingdom 
of  God  upon  the  earth,  and  those  keys  are  here  in  our  midst.  I  want 
to  leave  you  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  know  that 
the  Church  today  is  guided  by  the  spirit  of  inspiration  and  by  the 
spirit  of  revelation  and  by  the  spirit  of  prophecy  just  as  much  as  it 
ever  has  been  guided  in  any  age  or  at  any  time,  including  all  former 
gospel  dispensations,  even  in  this  greatest  of  all  gospel  dispensations, 
opened  by  the  Lord  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  bear  you 
my  witness  that  it  stands  us  all  in  hand  to-  give  heed  to  the  teachings, 
admonitions,  and  advice  of  the  servants  of  the  Lord  by  him  authorized 
and  by  him  acknowledged  to  minister  in  the  Church  and  keep  it  in 
order.  I  raise  my  voice  in  warning  against  those  who  presume,  because 
of  any  motive,  be  it  whatever  it  may,  to  better  the  conditions  in  this 
Church  other  than  through  sustaining  the  authority  that  the  Lord 
has  given,  through  whom  will  come  the  revelations  to  guide  and  to 
direct  this  Church. 

I  pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  to  be  upon  this  people.  I 
pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  to  be  upon  the  missionaries  who  are 
in  the  world,  laboring  so  valiantly.  Those  young  men  and  those  young 
women  are  fine  characters.  They  are  laboring  zealously  for  the  spread 
of  truth.  They  need  your  assistance,  and  the  world  needs  their  teach- 
ings, for  they  are  teaching  the  gospel  that  has  been  restored.  Not  only 
does  the  world  need  the  teachings  and  the  ministry  of  those  who  are 
out  there,  but,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  you  could  only  see  what 
we  see,  who  are  out  on  the  firing  line,  you  would  know  that  we  do 
not  repeat  it  as  a  mere  form  when  we  say  that  there  is  a  crying  need 
for  thousands  more  to  be  in  the  ministry  of  the  Lord,  to  take  care  of 
the  ministry  in  the  world.  I  have  cried  that  from  my  standpoint  in 
the  Mexican  Mission  for  years,  and  we  have  had  the  support  that  I 
believe  could  be  rightly  given  us ;  but  recently  for  the  past  two  months 
while  in  Independence,  I  have  had  occasion  to  visit  with  President 
Bennion  in  some  of  the  nearby  branches  of  his  mission,  and  have  held 
conference  with  him  nearly  every  Sunday  that  I  have  been  down  there. 
It  has  not  interfered  with  my  week-day  work,  and  I  have  been  pleased 
to  visit  with  him  in  the  great  mission  over  which  he  presides.  In 
many  of  these  trips  we  would  start  out  late  Saturday  evening  through 
the  country  by  automobile,  or  by  train.  I  have  made  inquiry  of  President 
Bennion,  "What  about  missionaries  through  all  of  these  towns,  through 
all  of  these  villages,  through  all  this  country-side?"  And  he  has 
remarked,  "Brother  Pratt,  we  haven't  them  here.    We  haven't  the 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


men  to  take  care  of  the  work  that  there  is  for  us  to  do."  I  have  talked 
with  a  great  many  people  who  would  be  anxious  to  have  missionaries 
come  into  their  midst.  The  harvest,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  truly 
is  great.  The  work  is  great.  The  necessity  for  sincerity,  calling  for 
honest  effort,  is  apparent  everywhere  in  the  Lord's  work.  May  we 
acquit  ourselves  as  men  and  as  women  having  this  great  knowledge, 
and  bear  off  our  responsibilities ;  for,  as  I  frequently  say  to  the  mission- 
aries in  our  mission,  "Brethren  and  sisters,  the  responsibility  of 
teaching  the  gospel  in  this  mission  is  upon  you  right  now.  It  is  no 
use  for  you  to  criticize  what  is  in  the  past,  nor  will  it  do  any  good 
for  you  to  be  particularly  worried  about  what  shall  follow  after  you 
leave ;  but  the  responsibility  of  preaching  the  gospel,  right  now  and 
here,  is  upon  the  little  group  that  is  gathered  together  in  this  mis- 
sion." So  likewise  the '  responsibility  of  this  work  today,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  rests  upon  the  membership  of  the  Church  today,  and  the 
Lord  will  hold  us  accountable  for  our  stewardship,  for  our  participa- 
tion, and  for  our  faithfulness  in  his  work. 

May  he  continue  to  add  his  blessings  to  us,  I  humbly  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  have  rejoiced  beyond  my  power  to  express,  at  what  I  have  heard 
and  what  I  have  felt  this  morning.  As  the  good  brother  who  was 
hard  of  hearing  remarked,  upon  one  occasion,  when  somebody  asked  him 
why  he  went  to  church  when  he  co-uldn't  hear  a  word,  "It  isn't  what 
you  hear,  it  is  what  you  feel  that  makes  you  better."  I  have  enjoyed 
the  influences  that  are  present.  My  memory  has  gone  back  to  the 
time  when  this  building  was  first  erected  and  as  a  child  I  helped  to 
decorate  the  roof  with  festoons  of  paper  flowers, — at  least  I  helped  make 
the  flowers.  I  have  seen  the  improvement  in  its  lighting  go^  on  from 
then  until  now.  I  remember  the  old  gas  jets  around  the  gallery  that  were 
used  to  illuminate  this' building.  I  think  we  have  now  arrived  at  perfec- 
tion of  lighting  for  the  comfort  of  all  who  assemble,  and  I  congratulate 
those  who  have  installed  the  fine  system  that  makes  this  room  as 
delightful  as  it  is  possible  for  it  to  be,'  as  far  as  light  is  concerned. 

GRATITUDE  FOR  BLESSINGS  OF  THE  GOSPEL 

The  testimonies  that  have  been  borne  this  morning  have  rejoiced 
my  soul.  I  am  thankful  that  I  belong  to  a  church  that  numbers 
among  its  members  men  and  women  who  know  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  in  this  latter-day  he  has  spoken  again  from  the 
heavens,  that  the  authority  of  his  holy  priesthood  has  been  conferred 
upon  men,  and  that  we  who  are  members  of  this  Church  have  taken 
the  preparatory  step  toward  a  home  in  his  celestial  kingdom.  I  am 
thankful  for  this  knowledge,  and  when  I  listened  this  morning  to  the 
report  of  our  beloved  President,  telling  of  the  progress  and  development 
of  the  Church  in  a  material  way,  I  was  greatly  pleased. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


23 


Some  of  our  associates  have  recently  been  called  home.  The 
Lord  has  said  to  them,  "It  is  enough,  you  have  finished  your  work  on 
earth."  Those  who  have  been  called  to  succeed  them  are  in  the  service 
of  the  Lord  in  different  stations.  The  appeals  of  the  mission  pres- 
idents remind  us  of  the  fact  that  disseminating  the  truth  is  not 
the  responsibility  of  someone  else,  but  it  is  your  responsibility  and 
mine  to  see  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  its  '  purity  is  taught 
to  the  children  of  men.  Doesn't  it  make  you  feel  grateful?  Isn't 
there  a  sense  of  appreciation  welling  up  in  your  souls  when  you 
realize  that  we  are  numbered  among  the  comparatively  few  of  all 
God's  children  who  believe  in  him  and  know  that  he  is? 

A  PURE  ATMOSPHERE 

I  have  been  sitting  here  this  morning  wishing  that  my  relatives 
who  are  not  here  might  be  under  the  sound  of  the  voices  of  the  brethren 
who  have  spoken,  that  they,  too,  might  partake  of  this  influence  that 
comes  from  our  Heavenly  Father.  I  have  wished  that  conditions  were 
such  that  all  Israel  might,  not  only  at  annual  and  semi-annual  con- 
ferences and  stake  conferences,  but  at  all  times  live  in  such  an  at- 
mosphere that  it  would  not  be  possible  for  them  to  do  wrong. 

I  remember  a  number  of  years  ago  a  good  man  who  was  at  that 
time  chairman  of  the  board  of  control  of  the  Universalist  Church  of 
America.  He  came  here  to  visit  our  city  and  attended  two  of  our 
Sunday  schools.  In  one  of  the  kindergarten  classes  he  became  much 
interested.  Eventually,  when  the  school  was  about  to  close,  the  super- 
intendent said,  "Wouldn't  you  like  to  say  a  few  words  to  the  school?" 
He  had  informed  me  in  the  other  Sunday  school,  for  he  visited  two, 
that  he  didn't  feel  to  say  anything;  but  when  in  the  second  school  the 
superintendent  asked  him  to  speak,  he  said,  "I  would  like  to  say  a  few 
words."  He  said,  "If  I  could  only  live  in  the  atmosphere  that  I  found 
in  that  little  kindergarten  class  in  this  Sabbath  school  this  morning, 
I  couldn't  help  but  be  a  good  man."  I  have  thought  of  that  a  good 
many  times.  We  choose  carefully  the  atmosphere  that  we  breathe,  that 
we  may  live  in  health.  But  sometimes,  in  our  carelessness,  we  place 
ourselves  in  subjection  to  immoral  influences  that  destroy  our  resistance 
of  evil,  and  we  are  led  to  do  things  that  we  ought  not  to  do  and  would 
not  do  if  under  the  influence  of  the  Lord.  If  we  would  only  be  humble, 
if  we  would  only  be  prayerful,  if  we  would  only  live  in  such  a  way 
that  each  hour  of  our  lives  we  could  truthfully  say,  "Father  in  heaven, 
I  am  willing  and  anxious  to  do  what  thou  wouldst  have  me  do,"  our 
lives  every  day  would  be  enriched  as  we  go  through  this  earth  ex- 
perience. 

OUR  LIVES  ENRICHED  BY  SERVICE 

Twenty-six  years  I  have  been  privileged,  and  honored,  to  occupy 
this  stand  as  one  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church ;  yet  it 
seems  but  a  short  time  to  me  since  I  was  ordained  an  apostle  and 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


became  a  member  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve.  During  that  time, 
all  but  three  of  those  who  were  among  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church  have  passed  to  the  other  side,  and  I  realize  that  only  a  few 
years  more  and  my  summons  will  come.  It  may  be  only  a  few  days. 
That's  not  important.  The  important  thing  to  all  of  us  is,  that  when 
the  summons  comes,  when  the  Lord  calls,  we  can  say,  like  one  of  old, 
"Lord  here  am  J,  and  I  am  ready." 

Our  ministry  is  one  of  love.  Our  service  is  one  which  enriches 
our  lives.  The  opportunity  of  those  who  preside  in  the  stakes  and 
wards  of  Zion  or  elsewhere,  is  one  beyond  all  price,  and  if  we  are 
living  as  God  intends  that  we  should  live,  if  we  are  ministering  as  he 
desires  that  we  should  minister,  every  day  of  our  lives  is  enriched 
by  the  influence  of  his  Spirit,  our  love  of  our  fellowmen  increases  and 
our  souls  are  enlarged  until  we  feel  that  we  could  take  into  our  arms 
all  of  God's  children,  with  a  desire  to  bless  them  and  bring  them  to 
an  understanding  of  the  truth. 

EACH   SHOULD  DO   HIS  PART 

When  I  think  of  the  burdens  that  are  carried  by  the  President 
of  this  Church  and  his  counselors,  and  realize  the  responsibilities  that 
are  placed  upon  their  shoulders,  with  all  my  heart  I  desire  to  help 
them,  that  I  may  not  be  an  incumbrance,  but  that  in  the  position  to 
which  I  have  been  called,  with  you,  my  brethren  and  my  sisters,  we  may 
each  take  our  place  and  carry  our  portion  of  the  load  and  magnify 
our  calling  to  the  honor  and  glory  of  God. 

THANKFUL  FOR  LOVE  OF  ASSOCIATES  AND  FRIENDS 

I  have  associated  with  a  large  number  of  men  who  have  presided 
in  the  Church  as  Presidents  and  Counselors,  as  members  of  the  Quorum 
of  the  Twelve,  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  the  Presiding  Bishopric 
and  Patriarchs.  I  have  associated  with  many  presidents  of  stakes 
and  bishops  of  wards.  I  have  associated  with  many  who  have  presided 
over  mission  fields  and  auxiliary  organizations.  I  want  to  say  that 
all  these  men  and  women  of  prominence,  without  exception  as  far 
as  I  can  recall  now,  have  been  an  inspiration  to  me  to  serve  God  and  to 
be  a  better  man.  I  thank  my  family  that  they  have  made  it  possible  for 
me  to  do  the  things  that  have  been  assigned  to  me — my  good  wife 
who  has  carried  the  burden  at  home;  my  children  who  have  never 
once  discouraged  me  from  doing  the  work  that  has  been  assigned  to 
me,  but  have  encouraged  me  and  blessed  me,  not  only  by  permitting 
me  to  do  my  part  but  by  striving  to  do  their  part  as  they  have  had 
it  called  to  their  attention  by  those  who  preside  over  them.  I  am 
grateful  to  the  men  with  whom  I  associate,  my  brethren,  for  their  love 
and  kindness  and  gentleness  to  me;  for  of  the  twenty-six  years  I  have 
referred  to  several  of  those  years  have  been  years  of  illness,  of 
inability  to  do  the  things  that  were  in  my  heart  to  do,  but  not  one 
word  of  reproach  or  of  unkindness  has  come  from  one  of  these,  my 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


25 


brethren.  From  all  Israel,  from  every  corner  where  I  have  gone 
I  have  felt  that  there  has  been  a  desire  that  I  might  live,  that  I  might 
magnify  my  calling,  that  I  might  be  worthy  of  the  high  position  to  which 
I  have  been  called.  The  members  of  my  quorum  have  performed  my 
work,  apparently  gladly  and  willingly,  when  I  was  unable  to  perform 
it;  and  now  in  the  Mutual  Improvement  organization,  my  counselors 
and  the  board  members  have  stood  by  me  and  have  carried  the  burden, 
and  in  their  anxiety  have  taken  the  load  that  ordinarily  falls  to  the 
presiding  officer.  The  result  has  been  that  wherever  I  go  I  feel  love 
and  kindness.  In  the  homes  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  in  all  parts  of 
the  Church  where  I  have  been  permitted  to  go,  the  spirit  of  prayer  and 
thanksgiving  has  been  present.  My  life  has  been  illumined  by  the 
power  of  God  and  I  have  seen  the  beauties  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
as  they  have  been  made  manifest  in  the  lives  of  these  wonderful  men 
and  women. 

THE  LORD'S  WORK 

Brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  the  Lord's  work.  Men  could  not 
have  carried  it  forward  successfully  as  it  has  been  done  by  the  simple 
means  employed  by  us.  Ordinary  man  could  not  have  brought  into  your 
souls  the  knowledge  that  you  possess.  Neither  can  we  as  men  inspire 
those  in  the  world  with  the  assurance  that  God  lives  and  that  this  is 
his  Church,  but  if  we  will  do  our  part,  our  Heavenly  Father  will  bless 
our  effort.  If  we  will  sustain  those  who  are  called  to  lead  us,  if  we 
will  pray  for  and  uphold  those  who  preside  in  the  various  stakes  and 
wards  of  this  Church,  nothing  can  stop  our  progress.  The  Lord 
will  make  it  possible  for  his  children  to  understand,  if  they  are  worthy 
to  understand,  and  our  blessings  will  be  in  proportion  to  the  efforts 
we  put  forth  to  bring  them  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth. 

This  day,  with  all  my  heart,  I  thank  him  for  life,  for  being,  for 
membership  in  this  Church.  I  thank  him  for  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
I  thank  him  for  the  Ten  Commandments.  I  thank  him  for  all  the 
ordinances  of  the  House  of  the  Lord  that  I  have  received,  each  one 
of  which  has  been  intended  not  for  me  alone  but  I  have  been  permitted 
to  receive  a  portion  of  that  which  has  been  intended  for  all  his  children, 
wherever  they  may  be,  if  they  are  willing  to  receive  what  he  offers  to 
them,  without  money  and  without  price. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  go  to  our  homes  rejoicing  when  this 
wonderful  conference  is  finished.  No  doubt  when  it  is  concluded  we 
will  say,  "It  is  the  best  one  that  we  have  ever  had."  Why?  Because 
while  we  are  basking  in  the  sunshine  of  the  Spirit  of  God  we  forget 
our  sorrows  and  our  distresses.  While  our  lives  are  illumined  by 
his  power,  our  souls  are  enriched,  and  we  know  that  we  are  blessed  of 
the  Lord.  The  gospel  teaches  us  that  if  we  take  advantage  of  our 
opportunities,  all  the  time  we  may  enjoy  those  blessings,  and  all  the 
time  the  love  that  we  now  have  in  our  hearts  for  our  fellowmen  will 
abide  with  us. 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


This  is  God's  work.  I  know  it,  as  well  as  I  know  that  I  live,  and 
I  bear  witness  of  it,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Zion  Stands  with  Hills  Sur- 
rounded." 

Elder  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Commissioner  of  Education  for  the 
Church,  pronounced  the  benediction,  after  which  the  Conference  ad- 
journed until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  was  continued  in  the  Tabernacle  at  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

President  Grant,  who  presided,  announced  that  the  congregation 
would  sing,  as  the  opening  hymn,  "Come,  Come  Ye  Saints." 

After  the  singing,  Elder  Harry  Edward  Sutton,  President  of  the 
Oquirrh  Stake,  offered  the  invocation. 

The  hymn,  "Though  Deepening  Trials,"  was  sung  by  the  con- 
gregation. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Amplifying  sets  have  been  arranged  to  accommodate  the  deaf. 
Those  not  having  ear  phones  may  secure  them  for  each  session,  upon 
application  to  the  Bureau  of  Information.  Those  desiring  further 
information  regarding  them  may  secure  it  from  the  Bureau  of  Informa- 
tion.   Seats  will  be  reserved  in  the  rear  of  the  building  for  the  deaf. 

ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 

I  am  happy  to  be  at  home  once  more  after  a  brief  absence  in 
the  East.  I  have  seen  nothing,  heard  nothing,  found  nothing,  in  my 
travels  that  could  wean  me  away  from  the  love  of  my  mountain  home; 
from  my  dear  ones  who  dwell  here;  and  from  my  kindred  and  friends 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

LAND  OF  BEAUTY 

When  I  was  in  Switzerland,  the  loveliest  land  I  was  ever  in,  I 
told  the  people  there  that  I  had  come  from  the  Switzerland  of  America, 
and  I  congratulated  them  on  living  in  the  Utah  of  Europe.  This 
is  a  beautiful  land,  beautiful  by  nature,  and  beautiful  in  spirit.  It  is 
the  home  of  the  Saints  of  God,  the  home  of  the  prophets  of  God,  the 
home  of  a  people  who  possess  the  powers  of  the  Priesthood  and  the 
fulness  of  the  Everlasting  Gospel.    That  is  what  makes  it  so  beautiful. 

IN  THE  NORTHERN  STATES 

During  the  month  of  September,  in  company  with  Elder  Noah 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


27 


S.  Pond,  the  able  and  amiable  president  of  the  Northern  States  Mission, 
I  traversed  six  states  of  the  Union,  namely,  Iowa,  Illinois,  Indiana, 
Ohio,  Michigan  and  Wisconsin.  We  held  forty  meetings  with  the 
missionaries,  saints  and  investigators,  and  addressed  in  the  aggregate 
fully  fifty  percent  of  the  Latter-day  Saint  population  of  those  states. 
We  dedicated  two  chapels  in  Ohio,  one  at  Cincinnati,  the  other  at 
Dayton,  and  organized  a  branch  in  that  town.  We  also  organized  an 
Elder's  quorum  in  Chicago,  the  first  quorum  of  its  kind  known  in  any 
of  the  missions  of  the  Church,  so  far  as  I  am  informed.  I  much 
enjoyed  my  labors,  and  the  Lord  was  with  us  in  our  journeyings  and 
in  our  work. 

ADDRESSING  THE  ROTARIANS 

On  the  10th  of  September,  I  had  the  honor  of  addressing  the 
Chicago  Rotary  Club,  a  distinguished  body  of  professional  and  business 
men,  at  their  regular  luncheon  in  the  Sherman  Hotel,  having  been 
invited  to  deliver  the  invocation.  I  was  billed  upon  the  program  as 
"Bishop  Orson  F.  Whitney  of  the  Mormon  Temple,  Salt  Lake  City," 
the  maker  of  the  program  evidently  thinking  of  the  temple  as  a  church, 
with  me  as  its  pastor.  My  daughter  Margaret  (Mrs.  Lester  C.  Essig), 
who  resides  in  Chicago,  was  asked  by  an  outside  friend,  "Who  is  this 
Mormon  priest  that's  going  to  pray  at  the  club  luncheon?"  Margaret 
answered :  "It  happens  to  be  my  father" — and  there  was  silence  in  that 
vicinity  (if  not  in  heaven)  "for  the  space  of  half  an  hour." 

I  was  given  a  mo'st  cordial  reception,  a  Jewish  rabbi  being  par- 
ticularly gracious  in  greeting  me.  After  1 1  had  spoken,  for  I  made  a 
little  prefatory  talk  before  offering  the  prayer,  a  gentleman  sitting 
near  leaned  over  to  tell  me  that  he  was  well  acquainted  with  President 
Heber  J.  Grant  and  prized  his  friendship  highly.  He  also  spoke  kindly 
of  my  deceased  brother,  Horace  G.  Whitney.  I  do  not  recall  the  gentle- 
man's name,  but  doubtless  the  President  will.  He  said  the  President's 
autographed  photo  hung  upon  the  wall  of  his  office  in  San  Francisco. 

I  sat  upon  the  chairman's  platform,  right  next  to  Colonel  Archer, 
the  speaker  of  the  occasion,  who  gave  a  splendid  talk  on  "Sanitation 
and  Civilization."    He  began  thus : 

"While  Bishop  Whitney  was  speaking,  I  was  reminded  of  the  story  of  the 
two  oysters  at  a  church  festival.  One  of  them  inquired,  'Where  are  we?'  The 
other  replied,  'We  are  in  the  soup  at  a  church  festival.'  'Must  be  some  mistake,' 
said  the  first,  'what  need  had  they  for  both  of  us  ?'  " 

Brisbane's  admission 

And  now,  to  change  the  subject.  Some  months  ago,  I  clipped 
from  a  newspaper  a  paragraph,  part  of  a  column  furnished  to  the 
syndicate  press  by  Mr.  Arthur  Brisbane,  who  is  said  to  be  the  highest- 
nriced  editorial  writer  in  all  the  world.  Speaking  of  Supreme  Court 
Justice  Holmes  and  quoting  the  latter's  motto,  "Rest  is  not  the  destiny 
of  man."  Mr.  Brisbane  added  this  comment ; 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"A  big  monument  would  reward  Justice  Holmes  if  he  could  tell  us  what  the 
destiny  of  man  really  is ;  how  we  got  here ;  whence  we  came ;  whither 
we  go  from  here ;  what  happens  after  we  go.  But  about  such  questions  a  learned 
Supreme  Court  Justice  knows  as  little  as  an  Eskimo  watching  for  seals  in  an 
ice-hole." 

"An  honest  confession  is  good  for  the  soul."  So  runs  an  old 
proverb.  I  admire  Mr.  Brisbane,  not  only  for  his  vast  learning  and  his 
brilliant  writings,  but  for  his  courage  and  candor  in  admitting  that 
there  are  some  things  he  does  not  know.  For  what  he  says  of  Justice 
Holmes  applies  inferentially  to  himself.  I  would  not  put  either  of 
these  learned  men  on  a  level  with  an  Eskimo  watching  for  seals  in  an 
ice-hole,  but  if  Mr.  B.  confesses  to  a  lack  of  information  as  to  man's 
origin,  destiny  and  the  purpose  of  his  creation,  I  for  one  shall  not 
dispute  him,  but  content  myself  with  honoring  his  frank  and  open 
admission. 

Whether  he  was  authorized  to  speak  for  Justice  Holmes  upon 
this  momentous  question,  I  know  not,  but  this  I  know :  he  cannot  speak 
for  me  nor  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  general.  I  know  of  a  man  who 
told  the  world  long  ago,  told  them  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  concerning 
man's  origin  and  destiny ;  and  they  rewarded  him,  not  with  a  monument, 
but  with  a  martyr's  grave !  I  refer,  of  course,  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  Here  is  one  pronouncement  upon  the  subject  under  discussion, 
taken  from  his  translation  of  the  Book  of  Abraham : 

man's  bre-existence  and  eternal  destiny 

"Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me,  Abraham,  the  intelligences  that  were 
organized  before  the  world  was ;  and  among  all  these  there  were  many  of  the 
noble  and  great  ones ; 

"And  God  saw  these1  souls  that  they  were  good,  and  he  stood  in  the  midst 
of  them  and  he  said :  These  I  will  make  my  rulers ;  for  he  stood  among  those 
that  were  spirits,  and  he  saw  that  they  were  good ;  and  he  said  unto  me : 
Abraham,  thou  art  one  of  them ;  thou  wast  chosen  before  thou  wast  born. 

"And  there  stood  one  among  them  that  was  like  unto  God,  and  he  said  unto 
those  who  were  with  him :  We  will  go  down,  for  there  is  space  there,  and  we 
will  take  of  these  materials  and  we  will  make  an  earth  whereon  these  may  dwell ; 

"And  we  will  prove  them  herewith,  to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things  what- 
soever the  Lord  their  God  shall  command  them ; 

"And  they  who  keep  their  first  estate  shall  be  added  upon ;  and  they  who 
keep  not  their  first)  estate  shall  not  have  glory  in  the  same  kingdom  with  those 
who  keep  their  first  estate ;  and  they  who  keep  their  second  estate  shall  have 
glory  added  upon  their  heads  for  ever  and  ever."    ( Abr.  3  :22-26.) 

Those  who  wish  to  pursue  the  subject  further  should  read  the 
Prophet's  marvelous  description  of  the  vision  seen  by  him  and  Sidney 
Rigdon,  February  16,  1832,  and  recorded  in  Section  76  of  the  book 
of  Doctrine  and  Covenants.   Time  will  not  permit  me  to  treat  of  it  here. 

How  did  Joseph  Smith  get  hold  of  these  things  ?  Not  by  watching 
for  seals  in  an  ice-hole ;  not  by  reading  newspapers,  nor  by  going  to 
college.  He  received  them  by  divine  revelation,  through  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  manifesting  the  things  of  God  in  the  fulness  of  the  ever- 
lasting gospel. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  W\HITNEY 


29 


THE     MORMON  ATTITUDE 

About  a  year  ago  I  was  traveling  through  the  Eastern  States 
Mission  with  President  Henry  H.  Rolapp.  One  of  our  meetings  was 
in  Huntington  Hall,  Boston.  At  the  close  of  the  service  many  came 
forward  to  shake  hands  with  the  speakers  and  ply  us  with  questions. 
One  young  man,  approaching  me,  asked  respectfully:  "What  is  your 
attitude  toward  the  other  churches?"  I  replied,  "They  are  all  doing 
good,  but  they  are  without  the  fulness  of  the  Gospel ;"  and  he  walked 
away  thoughtfully. 

This. I  believe  to  be  our  true  position.  There  is  some  truth  in  all 
religions,  in  heathendom  as  well  as  in  Christendom.  And  it  is  the 
truth  in  those  systems  that  perpetuates  them,  not  the  errors  with  which 
the  truth  is  mixed.  There  are  millions  of  good,  honest  people  all  over 
the  world,  in  all  the  churches,  but  they  have  not  the  fulness  of  the 
Gospel.  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  its  one 
depository.  This  is  the  claim  we  make.  This  is  the  "Mormon"  attitude. 

REGARDING  INDUCEMENTS 

Many  years  ago,  when  I  was  bishop  of  the  Eighteenth  Ward  in 
this  city,  I  was  invited  to  meet,  at  the  home  of  one  of  the  ward  members, 
a  learned  medical  gentleman  from  Philadelphia.  Elder  B.  H.  Roberts  was 
also  there,  and  we  spent  a  very  pleasant  evening.  Brother  Roberts 
told  the  visitor  all  about  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  he  listened  intently. 
So  did  I.  The  gentleman  then  turned  to  me  and  said  :  "Bishop  Whitney, 
will  you  please  tell  me  why  I  ought  to  be  a  Latter-day  Saint,  in  prefer- 
ence to  being  a  Methodist,  a  Baptist,  a  Presbyterian,  a  Catholic,  or 
anything  else  in  religion?" 

I  answered  him  in  much  the  same  language  as  I  used  with  that 
young  man  in  Boston,  though  with  greater  elaboration.  "It  is,"  said 
I,  "because  we  have  the  fulness  of  the  Gospel,  and  the  other  churches 
have  only  parts  of  it.  If  you  were  seeking  the  wealth  of  this  world; 
its  gold  and  silver,  houses  and  lands,  flocks  and  herds,  and  so  on,  I 
would  not  advise  you  to  become  a  Latter-day  Saint.  You  might  acquire 
riches  as  an  indirect  result  of  joining  this  Church,  and  you  might  not. 
I  have  known  of  men  emigrating  hither  from  foreign  lands  in  early 
days,  who,  if  they  had  remained  in  their  own  country,  would  never 
have  owned  an  inch  of  ground,  would  have  continued  to  live  in  rented 
homes,  with  no  prospect  before  them  in  old  age  but  the  poorhouse. 
They  joined  the  Church  and  came  to  Utah  because  the  spirit  of  the 
gathering  was  upon  them,  the  gathering  of  scattered  Israel,  preparatory 
to  the  coming  of  the  God  of  Israel  to  reign  over  the  earth.  And  as 
an  indirect  result  of  their  immigration,  they  became  well  to  do.  They 
took  up  land  of  their  own,  had  flocks  and  herds  of  their  own,  and 
prospered  in  temporal  as  in  spiritual  things,  some  of  them  rising  to 
wealth  and  affluence.  But  the  Church  had  not  promised  those  things 
to  induce  their  conversion.  We  have  never  bribed  people  to  come  into 
the  Church.   If  the  Lord  chooses  to  bless  the  Saints  with  riches,  we  are 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


glad  of  it — glad  to  see  our  brethren  and  sisters  prosper,  but  we  don't 
guarantee  such  things. 

"Again,  if  you  were  seeking  office  and  authority,  I  would  advise 
you  to  pass  us  by.  You  might,  by  joining  the  Church,  become  a  bishop,  a 
stake  president,  an  apostle,  or  even  one  of  the  First  Presidency — if 
the  Lord  so  willed ;  but  we  don't  promise  it.  We  don't  hold  that  out 
as  an  inducement.  Such  things,  if  they  come  at  all,  come  as  a  gift 
from  God  and  not  because  they  are  sought  after." 

Digressing  for  a  moment,  I  remember  hearing  a  young  man  say 
concerning  our  beloved  brother,  Senator  Reed  Smoot,  that  he  had 
achieved  every  object  for  which  he  had  set  out  in  his  youth,  and  among 
these  was  included  the  Apostleship.  "Young  man,"  said  I,  "please 
omit  from  that  list  of  achievements  the  holy  Apostleship.  Men  don't 
get  that  by  aiming  for  it,  and  Reed  Smoot  never  made  such  a  claim, 
neither  would  he  make  it." 

There  are  some  things  that  ought  not  to  be  aimed  at.  They  are  not 
to  be  achieved  by  man's  effort,  and  ought  not  to  be  boasted  of  as 
trophies  of  human  skill.   The  Apostleship  is  one  of  them. 

Resuming  as  to  that  gentleman  from  Philadelphia,  said  I  to  him 
in  conclusion: 

"If  you  were  seeking  honors  of  that  kind  you  would  very  likely  be 
disappointed.  Or,  if  you  desired  the  Iovp  of  the  world,  its  applause  and 
good  will,  you  would  be  doomed  to  disappointment  by  joining  this 
Church ;  for  you  would  simply  inherit  your  share  of  the  Savior's  promise 
to  his  disciples :  'You  shall  be  hated  of  all  men  for  my  name's  sake.' 

"But  if  you  want  the  fulness  of  the  Everlasting  Gospel,  the 
powers  of  the  eternal  priesthood,  and  the  illumination  of  your  soul,  so 
that  you  can  know  beyond  all  doubt  why  you  are  here,  whence  you, 
came,  what  God  expects  of  you,  and  what  awaits  you  in  the  great 
Hereafter, — if  this  knowledge  is  of  any  value  to  you,  then  embrace  what 
the  world  calls  'Mormonism'  and  these  blessings  shall  be  yours." 

god's  greatest  gift 

God's  greatest  gift  is  eternal  life,  but  that  pertains  to  Eternity. 
The  greatest  blessing  that  our  Heavenly  Father  can  bestow  upon  us 
in  time,  or  while  we  are  here,  is  the  power  to  lay  hold  upon  eternal 
life.  The  Everlasting  Gospel,  through  obedience  to  its  every  require- 
ment, and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  gives  this  power.  It  not  only 
saves — it  exalts  men  to  where  God  and  Christ  dwell  in  the  fulness  of 
Celestial  Glory.  Such,  in  substance,  was  my  testimony  to  that  gentle- 
man to  whom  I  refer,  and  this  is  my  testimony  to  you,  my  dear  brethren 
and  sisters,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

There  is  a  saying  among  the  German  people  that  runs  like  this: 
"All  good  things  are  three."    We  have  in  a  material  way  the  three 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


31 


dimensions:  length,  breadth  and  thickness.  We  have  the  three  com- 
ponent parts  of  this  mundane  sphere:  land,  water  and  air;  also  solids, 
liquids  and  gases,  the  three  forms  of  matter.  We  have  the  three  classes 
of  heavenly  bodies  that  fill  the  sidereal  universe :  suns,  planets  and 
satellites.  And  in  a  spiritual  way  it  may  also  be  pointed  out  that  we 
have  the  three  degrees  of  glory — celestial,  terrestrial  and  telestial, 
symbolized  by  the  sun,  the  moon  and  stars,  on  account  of  their  com- 
parative brightness.  I  mention  these  things,  and  might  mention  many 
more,  not  because  they  have,  particularly,  any  bearing  upon  what  I  may 
say,  but  more  because  I  have  another  three  in  mind,  to  a  consideration 
of  which  I  would  like  to  devote  the  few  moments  that  I  stand  before 
you. 

There  are  three  things  which  are  indispensably  important  to  our 
wellbeing  and  are  naturally  inherent  to  all  mankind.  We  inherit  them 
from  our  divine  parents.  They  are  divine  attributes  transmitted  to  us 
as  the  offspring  of  Deity.  They  are,  in  this,  like  the  inalienable  rights 
of  man,  another  three :  life,  liberty  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness,  of 
which  we  read  in  the  Declaration  of  Independence.  These  three  things 
are  emotional  qualities  of  the  mind  and  heart  of  man  and  of  our  natures, 
that  may  and  should  be  carefully  cultivated ;  but  they  may  and  often  do 
exist  in  a  very  perverted  and  distorted  form — and  we  are  under  necessity 
of  choosing  between  these  divine  and  noble  attributes  as  they  are 
naturally  inherent  to  us,  and  their  ignoble  and  perverted  counterfeits 
which  can  only  be  acquired  by  ignoble  and  unnatural  effort.  It  is  a 
question  of  choice  between  good  and  evil. 

These  three  to  which  I  refer  are  faith,  hope  and  charity.  Whether 
they  be  virtues  or  vices  depends  upon  the  form  they  take.  If  they 
assume  their  natural  and  hence  divine  form  they  are  virtues,  but  if  they 
are  perverted  or  counterfeited  then  they  become  vices.  Some  people 
regard  faith  as  a  weakness,  a  positive  vice.  To  believe  everything  you 
hear,  how  foolish !  They  have  simply  mistaken  credulity,  the  devil's 
counterfeit,  for  faith;  they  are  not  alike.  Credulity  is  no  more  like 
faith  than  lust,  another  devilish  counterfeit,  is  like  love. 

All  good  things  are  counterfeited.  Our  government  issues  cur- 
rency in  various  denominations.  It  is  known  as  the  legal  tender 
wherever  we  may  use  it,  but  it  is  capable  of  being  counterfeited  and 
palmed  off  on  an  unwary  public  sometimes  as  the  genuine  thing,  but 
it  is  counterfeit.  They  make  coins  in  various  denominations,  but  some 
devil  will  obtain  a  baser  metal  and  gild  it  over  with  gold  and  palm  it 
off  for  genuine.  Religion  is  sometimes  falsely  understood.  It,  too,  has 
its  counterfeit.  But  let  us  not  despise  the  pure  gold  of  religion  because 
the  devil  makes  a  counterfeit  of  it  in  hypocrisy. 

What  must  we  believe  or  in  whom  must  we  have  faith?  are  vital 
questions  if  we  are  to  choose  the  true,  the  genuine  faith,  and  reject 
the  false,  the  counterfeit.  It  must  be  obvious  to  everyone  who  thinks 
that  if  there  is  a  plan  of  salvation,  a  plan  whereby  mankind  can  be 
redeemed  from  its  fallen  state  and  from  death  and  the  grave;  whereby 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


it  can  be  exalted  into  a  state  of  never  ending  joy  where  sin  shall  be 
no  more,  a  state  wherein  there  shall  be  a  continuation  of  happy  asso- 
ciations of  loved  ones,  husbands  and  wives,  parents  and  children,  such 
plan  must,  of  necessity,  emanate  from  heaven,  for  only  God  can  give 
us  such  salvation.  Surely  this  is  something  for  which  we  earnestly 
hope,  or  as  the  poet  tells  us,  "A  consummation  devoutly  to  be  wished." 
Do  we  hope  for  salvation  or  do  we  only  hope  for  the  sordid  things 
of  worldly  pleasures  and  the  gratification  of  sensual  desires?  Therein 
lies  the  difference  between  good  and  evil  hopes. 

How  then  may  we  learn  of  such  a  plan,  if  plan  there  be?  In 
answer  let  me  say,  only  as  God  shall  make  it  known.  There  is  no  other 
way.  And  how?  By  revelation,  the  very  foundation  upon  which  he 
builds  his  church.  He  reveals  his  secrets  unto  his  servants  the  prophets. 
Then  hearken  unto  these  messengers  of  life  and  salvation,  these  bearers 
of  the  glad  tidings  of  great  joy.  "Believe  on  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and 
thou  shalt  be  saved,"  for  as  we  read  still  further  in  holy  writ,  "God  so 
loved  the  world  that  he  sent  his  only  begotten  Son  that  whosoever  be- 
lieveth  on  him  shall  not  perish  but  have  everlasting  life."  Herein  are 
these  three  attributes  combined,  faith,  hope  and  charity.  Paul  says, 
"Now  faith  is  the  substance  (or  assurance)  of  things  hoped  for,  the 
evidence  of  things  not  seen ;"  but  again  we  read,  "Faith  is  not  unto  every 
man,  it  is  the  gift  of  God."  Then  we  may  well  say  it  is  the  assurance 
which  God  gives  us  that  our  exalted  hopes  shall  be  realized.  All  our 
hopes  of  a  glorious  resurrection,  of  a  future  life  in  celestial  glory,  are 
based  upon  our  faith  in  him,  whom  God  sent  into  this  world,  even  our 
Savior,  and  in  his  servants  and  messengers,  the  prophets  and  apostles 
through  whom  he  makes  known  the  glorious  plan  of  life  and  salvation 
which  dispels  the  gloom  of  death  and  the  grave,  and  fills  our  hearts 
with  hope.  But  says  one:  I  have  no  faith  in  God  and  no  hope  in  a 
future  life.  How  unnatural !  How  such  a  one  must  have  resisted  every 
natural  impulse  of  the  heart  to  have  fallen  into  such  an  abnormal  state 
of  mind !  No  faith,  no  hope.  Spiritual  deformities.  To  look  upon  a 
man  who  is  deformed  or  maimed  for  life,  — a  dislocated  jaw,  a  broken 
nose  or  an  eye  knocked  out — is  naturally  revolting.  How  unsightly  and 
ugly !  But  not  half  so  hideous  or  so  repulsive  is  he  who  is  thus 
physically  deformed  as  he  who  is  spiritually  deformed,  wanting  in  these 
Christian  qualities  so  inherent  and  natural  to  all  mankind.  No  faith : 
he  does  not  ask  and  hence  does  not  receive ;  he  does  not  seek  and  hence 
he  does  not  find ;  he  does  not  knock  and  therefore  the  door  is  not  opened 
unto  him. 

No  hope.    How  unnatural!    Pope  says: 

"Hope  springs  eternal  in  the  human  hreast, 
Man  never  is  but  always  to  be  blessed." 

And  another  poet,  after  telling  us  of  the  pleasures  of  hope,  exclaims : 

"Cease  every  joy  to  glimmer  on  my  mind, 
But  leave,  O  leave  the  light  of  hope  behind." 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


33 


Young  women,  you  daughters  of  Zion,  who  delight  in  making 
yourselves  look  fair,  I  shall  not  censure  you  or  find  fault,  you  were 
created  so;  but  if  you  would  be  beautiful  indeed  then  garnish  your 
minds,  your  inner  selves,  with  these  virtues,  with  faith,  hope  and 
charity ;  and  lift  up  your  souls  in  grateful  adoration  to  God,  the  giver 
of  every  good.  Then  shall  these  virtues  permeate  your  whole  being 
and  shine  forth  in  a  matchless  beauty  that  may  not  be  acquired  in  any 
other  way.  Young  men,  cultivate  these  virtues;  then  shall  godlike 
nobility  be  indelibly  engraved  upon  your  countenances,  and  that  in- 
telligence which  is  the  glory  of  God  shall  fill  your  souls  with  joy  and 
gladness  even  to  overflowing. 

"Now  abideth  faith,  hope,  charity,  these  three ;  but  the  greatest  of 
these  is  charity."  Thus  writes  the  Apostle  Paul  to  the  Corinthian 
saints.  Then  what  is  charity  ?  Is  it  pity?  Compassion?  Almsgiving? 
Mercy?  Yes,  all  these,  but  still  more  besides.  The  dictionary  defines 
it  as  "universal  love."  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  says  it  is  "the  pure 
love  of  Christ."  The  Savior  tells  us  that  all  the  law  and  the  prophets 
hang  on  these  two  commandments:  "Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy 
God  with  all  thy  heart,  with  all  thy  soul  and  with  all  thy  mind,"  and 
"thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself."  This  then  is  charity,  which 
is  the  fulfilment  of  the  law.  This  is  the  greatest  thing  of  all.  This 
achieved  will  sanctify  us  from  all  unrighteousness  and  prepare  us  for 
celestial  glory.  All  else  is  merely  the  means  to  this  desired  end.  This 
then  is  "that  which  is  perfect,"  the  rest  is  "that  which  is  in  part."  Or 
as  Paul  further  writes  to  the  Corinthians : 

"Charity  never  faileth :  but  whether  there  be  prophecies,  they  shall  fail ; 
whether  there  be  tongues,  they  shall  cease ;  whether  there  be  knowledge,  it  shall 
vanish  away. 

"For  we  know  in  part,  and  we  prophesy  in  part. 

"But  when  that  which  is  perfect  is  come,  then  that  which  is  in  part  shall 
be  done  away." 

For  the  accomplishment  of  this  end  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  has  been  revealed,  through  obedience  to  which  we  manifest  our 
faith  in  him  as  the  Savior  of  the  world  and  receive  the  assurance  that 
our  hope  for  a  glorious  future  life  will  be  realized.  No  other  name  is 
given  under  heaven  whereby  eternal  life,  God's  greatest  gift  to  man, 
may  be  attained,  other  than  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  the  very 
Son  of  God,  whom  he  sent  into  the  world  to  be  our  Savior. 

Let  us  then  believe  in  him  and  cultivate  his  divine  attributes  as 
they  are  naturally  inherent  within  us,  even  the  true,  the  genuine,  and 
reject  the  false,  the  counterfeit;  then  shall  we  grow  in  the  knowledge 
of  God  and  good  works  day  by  day  and  eventually  receive  the  crown 
of  eternal  life  which  the  Lord  hath  promised  to  them  that  love  him. 
Amen. 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  assure  you  I  appreciate  the  privilege 
of  standing  before  you  today.  I  fully  realize  that  this  is  a  difficult 
position  to  occupy.  Not  that  it  is  difficult  to  bear  testimony  of  the  things 
of  God,  but  one  standing  in  this  position  and  realizing  the  great  re- 
sponsibility, fears  that  he  may  not  do  justice  to  his  subject.  In  the 
spirit  of  humility  I  approach  this  task  and  humbly  pray  our  Heavenly 
Father  that  he  will  bless  me  in  my,  attempt  to  address  you. 

I  was  greatly  impressed  this  morning  with  the  remarks  of  President 
Grant.  I  had  a  feeling  of  joy  come  over  me  when  he  promised  that  if 
we  would  obey  the  law  of  tithing  God  would  bless  us.  I  am  wondering 
how  many  of  us  are  going  to  take  this  promise  seriously.  The  Lord 
has  made  a  similar  promise  before  and  has  also  reminded  us  that  we 
have  many  things  to  do  and  repent  of,  for  we  are  not  pardoned  because 
we  seek  to  counsel  in  our  own  way.  (D.  and  C.  56:13,  14.)  Is  it 
not  worthwhile  to  receive  these  promises  sincerely  and  with  faith  in 
their  fulfillment  through  obedience  to  the  laws  of  God?  Surely  none 
of  us  doubts  that  President  Grant  has  a  right  to  make  this  promise,  and 
we  should  have  no  doubt  that  it  will  be  fulfilled.  May  we  take  the 
spirit  of  this  promise  to  our  homes  that  we  may  be  encouraged  and 
encourage  others  in  attempting  'to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 

I  was  happy  to  hear  President  Grant  read  Section  11  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  and  comment  upon  it.  This  section  has  always 
been  interesting  to  me.  I  was  attracted  to  it  at  first  because  it  is  a 
revelation  given  through  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith  to  my  grandfather. 
To  me  this  revelation  contains  a  wonderful  sermon  which  in  my 
opinion  was  not  intended  for  him  alone  but  for  all  those  who  receive 
the  priesthood.  May  I  explain  why  I  reached  this  conclusion?  Since 
the  beginning  of  the  Church,  men  have  been  chosen  and  sent  into  the 
mission  field  to  preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  They  have  not  been 
chosen  because  of  their  educational  attainments,  but  because  of  their 
humility  and  willingness  to  serve  the  Lord  to  the  best  of  their  ability. 
One  of  the  many  evidences  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord  is  seen 
in  the  results  of  their  labors.  Very  few  have  failed  in  their  effort  and 
we  have  no  record  of  an  elder,  while  serving  as  a  missionary,  leaving 
the  Church  to  join  another.  We  have  looked  upon  this  condition  as 
being  normal  and  in  keeping  with  the  gospel  plan.  Many  times  have 
I  heard  Church  members  say,  in  some  cases  as  an  excuse  for  not 
supporting  the  priesthood  quorums,  the  Sabbath  school  or  the  Seminary 
work,  that  the  Lord  does  not  require  men  of  great  learning  to>  preach 
the  gospel,  for  he  has  promised  to  establish  the  gospel  through  the 
weak  things  of  the  world ;  and  they  point  to  the  success  of  our  mis- 
sionaries to  justify  themselves  in  their  failure  to  take  advantage  of 
the  many  opportunities  afforded  them  to  gain  a  better  knowledge  of 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


35 


the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which,  with  the  spirit  of  humility  and  faith, 
qualify  them  for  this  service.  For  faith,  humility  and  knowledge  are 
the  weapons  to  be  used  in  defense  of  truth  and  righteousness.  Have 
we  been  guilty  of  "counselling  in  our  own  way  ?"  In  this  interpretation 
is  it  not  an  attempt  to  justify  ourselves?  Did  the  Lord  intend  to  convey 
to  his  children  the  thought  that  they  should  wholly  depend  upon  him? 
Are  they  not  required  to  prepare  themselves  by  storing  up  useful 
knowledge?  To  my  mind  these  questions  are  of  vital  importance  to  us 
and  I  believe  a  careful  examination  of  the  scriptures  will  convince 
those  in  doubt  that  the  Lord  expects  much  of  his  servants  by  way  of 
preparation  on  their  part  to  qualify  them  to  render  efficient  service, 
which  preparation  must  come  through  a  sincere  desire  to  gain  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  gospel  through  diligent  research  carried  on  in  the  spirit 
of  faith  and  humility. 

Referring  to  Section  1 :19  and  Section  35  :13  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  who  are  the  weak  things  referred  to  ?  The  answer  given  is 
he  who  does  not  "counsel  his  fellow  man,  neither  trust  in  the  arm  of 
flesh."  How  are  they  to  thrash  the  nations?  and  the  answer  "by  the 
power  of  my  Spirit."  How  are  they  to  receive  that  power?  The 
words  of  the  Lord  to  Hyrum  Smith  in  Section  11  give  us  the  answer: 
"Therefore  if  you  will  ask  of  me  you  *  shall  receive ;  if  you  will  knock 
it  shall  be  opened  unto  you."  "Seek  not  for  riches  but  for  wisdom;: 
and,  behold,  the  mysteries  of  God  shall  be  unfolded  unto  you,  and! 
then  shall  you  be  made  rich."   (D.  and  C.  11 :5,  7.) 

About  eight  years  after  this  revelation  was  given  the  Lord  said  to 
Joseph  Smith,  "Verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  you,  my  servant  Joseph 
Smith,  I  am  well  pleased  with  your  offering  and  acknowledgments, 
which  you  have  made;  for  unto  this  end  have  I  raised  you  up,  that 
I  might  show  forth  my  wisdom  through  the  weak  things  of  the  earth. 
(D.  and  C.  124:1.) 

We  will  recall  that  when  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  first 
called  to  this  work  he  was  a  boy,  unlearned  but  intelligent  and  capable 
of  understanding  the  words  of  God.  He  was  not  a  man  of  letters  and 
had  not  learned  to  "counsel  his  f  ellowmen  nor  put  his  trust  in  the  arm 
of  flesh."  Realizing  that  there  was  something  lacking  in  the  teachings 
of  men  and  believing  in  the  promises  made  by  God  to  his  children,  as 
recorded  in  the  scriptures,  he  went  to  the  Lord  to  ask.  His  prayers 
were  answered.  That  weakness,  "speaking  in  the  language  of  men," 
became  strength,  showing  forth  the  wisdom  of  the  Lord  through  the 
weak  things  of  the  earth.  And  it  took  years  of  patient  study,  intelligent 
research,  and  unquestioned  faith,  to  prepare  him  for  this  great  service. 
And  through  him  the  Lord  has  given  us  his  word  to  direct  us  in  our 
effort  to  prepare  for  his  service.  The  following  quotation  from  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  84:106-110  is  a  notable  example: 

"And  if  any  man  among  you  be  strong  in  the  Spirit,  let  him  take  with  him 
him  that  is  weak,  that  he  may  be  edified  in  all  meekness,  that  he  may  become 
strong  also. 

"Therefore,  take  with  you  those  who  are  ordained  unto  the  lesser  priesthood, 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

and  send  them  before  you  to  make  appointments,  and  to  prepare  the  way,  and 
to  fill  appointments  that  you  yourselves  are  not  able  to  fill. 

"Behold,  this  is  the  way  that  mine  apostles,  in  ancient  days,  built  up  my 
church  unto  me. 

"Therefore,  let  every  man  stand  in  his  own  office,  and  labor  in  his  own 
calling;  and  let  not  the  head  say  unto  the  feet  it  hath  no  need  of  the  feet;  for 
without  feet  how  shall  the  body  be  able  to  stand? 

"Also  the  body  hath  need  of  every  member,  that  all  may  be  edified  together, 
that  the  system  may  be  kept  perfect." 

It  would  appear  that  many  of  us  have  neglected  to  follow  this 
instruction. 

"And  I  give  unto  you  a  commandment  that  you  shall  teach  one  another  the 
doctrine  of  the  kingdom. 

"Teach  ye  diligently  and  my  grace  shall  attend  you,  that  you  may  be  instructed 
more  perfectly  in  theory,  in  principle,  in  doctrine,  in  the  law  of  the  gospel,  in 
all  things  that  pertain  unto  the  kingdom  of  God,  that  are  expedient  for  you 
to  understand." 

"And  as  all  have  not  faith,  seek  ye  diligently  and  teach  one  another  words 
of  wisdom ;  yea,  seek  ye  out  of  the  best  books  words  of  wisdom ;  seek  learning, 
even  by  study  and  also  by  faith."    (D.  and  C.  88:77-79;  118.) 

This  quotation  also  gives  us  a  better  understanding  of  the  need 
of  preparation  for  service  in  his  great  Church. 

The  time  is  limited;  it  would  therefore  be  unwise  to  comment 
longer  upon  these  passages.  May  I  therefore  read  a  few  passages 
from  the  Bible  having  a  bearing  upon  this  subject?  Let  us  consider 
Paul's  advice  to  Timothy. 

"Charge  them  that  are  rich  in  this  world,  that  they  be  not  highminded, 
nor  trust  in  uncertain  riches,  but  in  the  living  God,  who  giveth  us  richly  all 
things  to  enjoy; 

"That  they  do  good,  that  they  be  rich  in  good  works,  ready  to  distribute, 
willing  to  communicate ; 

"Laying  up  in  store  for  themselves  a  good  foundation  against  the  time  to 
come,  that  they  may  lay  hold  on  eternal  life. 

"O  Timothy,  keep  that  which  is  committed  to  thy  trust,  avoiding  profane 
and  vain  babblings,  and  oppositions  of  science  falsely  so  called : 

"Which  some  professing  have  erred  concerning  the  faith.  Grace  be  with 
thee.  Amen."    (I  Tim.  6:17-21.) 

"It  is  a  faithful  saying :  For  if  we  be  dead  with  him,  we  shall  also  live  with 
him : 

"If  we  suffer,  we  shall  also  reign  with  him :  if  we  deny  him,  he  also  will 
deny  us: 

"If  we  believe  not,  yet  he  abideth  faithful :  he  cannot  deny  himself. 

"Of  these  things  put  them  in  remembrance,  charging  them  before  the  Lord 
that  they  strive  not  about  words  to  no  profit,  but  to  the  subverting  of  the  hearers. 

"Study  to  shew  thyself  approved  unto  God,  a  workman  that  needeth  not 
to  be  ashamed,  rightly  dividing  the  word  of  truth. 

"But  shun  profane  and  vain  babblings :  for  they  will  increase  unto  more 
ungodliness."    (II  Tim.  2:11-16.) 

Also  Paul's  instructions  to  the  Corinthians  found  in  I  Cor.  1 : 1 7-3 1 . 

"For  Christ  sent  me  not  to  baptize,  but  to  preach  the  gospel :  not  with 
wisdom  of  words,  lest  the  cross  of  Christ  should  be  made  of  none  effect. 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


37 


"For  the  preaching  of  the  cross  is  to  them  that  perish  foolishness;  but  unto 
us  which  are  saved  it  is  the  power  of  God. 

"For  it  is  written,  I  will  destroy  the  wisdom  of  the  wise  and  will  bring  to 
nothing  the  understanding  of  the  prudent. 

"Where  is  the  wise?  where  is  the  scribe?  where  is  the  disputer  of  this 
world?  hath  not  God  made  foolish  the  wisdom  of  this  world? 

"For  after  that  in  the  wisdom  of  God  the  world  by  wisdom  knew  not  God. 
it  pleased  God  by  the  foolishness  of  preaching  to  save  them  that  believe. 

"For  the  Jews  require  a  sign,  and  trie  Greeks  seek  after  wisdom : 

"But  we  preach  Christ  crucified,  unto  the  Jews  a  stumblingblock,  and  unto 
the  Greeks  foolishness ; 

"But  unto  them  which  are  called,  both  Jews  and  Greeks,  Christ  the  power 
of  God,  and  the  wisdom  of  God. 

"Because '  the  foolishness  of  God  is  wiser  than  men ;  and  the  weakness  of 
God  is  stronger  than  men. 

"For  ye  see  your  calling,  brethren,  how  that  not  many  wise  men  after  the 
flesh,  not  many  mighty,  not  many  noble,  are  called : 

"But  God  hath  chosen  the  foolish  things  of  the  world  to  confound  the  wise; 
and  God  hath  chosen  the  weak  things  of  the  world  to  confound  the  things  which 
are  mighty; 

"And  base  things  of  the  world,  and  things  which  are  despised,  hath  God 
chosen,  yea,  and  things  which  are  not,  to  bring  to  naught  things  that  are : 
"That  no  flesh  should  glory  in  his  presence. 

"But  of  him  are  ye  in  Christ  Jesus,  who  of  God  is  made  unto  us  wisdom, 
and  righteousness,  and  sanctification,  and'"  redemption: 

"That,  according  as  it  is  written,  he  that  glorieth,  let  him  glory  in  the  Lord." 

Solomon  calls  our  attention  to  the  need  of  such  training  for  we 
read  in  Proverbs  1 :2-7 : 

"To  know  wisdom  and  instruction ;  to  perceive  the  words  of  understanding ; 

"To  receive  the  instruction  of  wisdom,  justice,  and  judgment,  and  equity; 

"To  give  subtilty  to  the  simple,  to  the  young  man  knowledge  and  discretion. 

"A  wise  man  will  hear,  and  will  increase  learning ;  and  a  man  of  understand- 
ing shall  attain  unto  wise  counsels : 

"To  understand  a  proverb,  and  the  interpretation;  the  words  of  the  wise, 
and  their  dark  sayings. 

"The  fear  of  the  Lord  is  the  beginning  of  knowledge:  but  fools  despise 
wisdom  and  instruction." 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  it  seems  to  me  the  Lord  has  given 
us  his  plan  in  clearness,  and  our  duty  is  clearly  denned  and  definite. 
Ample  provision  has  been  made  available  for  such  training  for  all  who 
should  be  prepared  to  engage  in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  For  years 
we  have  urged  that  young  men  serve  as  Ward  Teachers  that  they 
might  have  an  opportunity  to  discuss  gospel  principles  in  the  homes  of 
the  saints,  thus  applying  in  actual  service  the  information  gained 
through  study  in  their  quorum  and  auxiliary  meetings.  We  have  also 
urged  that  we  carry  out  the  commandment  of  the  Lord  in  requiring  the 
priest  to  "preach,  teach,  expound,  exhort  and  baptize."  It  is  such 
experiences  that  give  to  those  who  go  into  the  mission  field  a  burning 
testimony  of  the  gospel,  and  which  sometimes,  I  am  sorry  to  say,  some 
lose  after  their  return,  because  of  lack  of  proper  Church  activity  and 
spiritual  food.  How  much  more  successful  would  the  work  be  if  all 
missionaries  were  sent  out  with  the  training  and  testimony  found  in 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


those  who  return.  In  certain  sections  this  is  being  done.  Why  not  in 
all?  Surely  we  are  left  without  excuse  when  we  fail,  and  how  much 
easier  would  be  the  task  for  the  mission  presidents  who  are  constantly 
pleading  for  missionaries,  as  well  as  for  the  missionary  himself,  if 
such  interest  were  taken  in  him  before  his  departure. 

"For  God  hath  not  given  us  the  spirit  of  fear;  but  of  power,  and  of  love, 
and  of  a  sound  mind."   (II  Tim.  1 :7.) 

May  the  Lord  bless  you.  I  rejoice  in  his  great  work.  I  am 
thankful  to  him  that  I  bear  his  holy  priesthood  and  that  I  am  permitted 
to  labor  with  you  in  this  great  cause.  May  God  bless  us  and  help 
us  to  carry  on  this  great  work  and  responsibility  which  he  has  placed 
upon  us,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

It  shall  be  my  purpose,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  brief  period 
allotted  to  me  this  afternoon,  to  introduce  to  you  two  great  characters 
with  whom  you  are  more  or  less  acquainted  and  whose  power  and 
influence  has  actuated  the  minds,  the  hearts  and  lives  of  the  people  of 
this  world  from  the  beginning.  I  desire  also  to  bring  to  your  attention 
the  work  and  purpose  of  each  of  these  great  characters  which,  I  may 
say,  are  diametrically  opposed  to  each  other.  I  read  to  you  from  the 
first  chapter  of  the  Book  of  Moses : 

THE  WORKS  OF  GOD 

"The  words  of  God,  which  he  spake  unto  Moses  at  a  time  when  Moses  was 
caught  up  into  an  exceedingly  high  mountain, 

"And  he  saw  God  face  to  face,  and  he  talked  with  him,  and  the  glory  of 
God  was  upon  Moses ;  therefore  Moses  could  endure  his  presence. 

"And  God  spake  unto  Moses,  saying :  "Behold,  I  am  the  Lord  God  Almighty, 
and  Endless  is  my  name;  for  I  am  without  beginning  of  days  or  end  of  years; 
and  is  not  this  endless  ? 

"And,  behold,  thou  art  my  son ;  wherefore,  look,  and  I  will  show  thee  the 
workmanship  of  mine  hands ;  but  not  all,  for  my  works  are  without  end,  and 
also  my  words,  for  they  never  cease. 

"Wherefore,  no  man  can  behold  all  my  works,  except  he  behold  all  my 
glory;  and  no  man  can  behold  all  my  glory  and  afterwards  remain  in  the  flesh 
on  the  earth. 

"And  I  have  a  work  for  thee,  Moses,  my  son ;  and  thou  art  in  the  similitude 
of  mine  Only  Begotten;  and  mine  Only  Begotten  is  and  shall  be  the  Savior,  for 
he  is  full  of  grace  and  truth;  but  there  is  no  God  beside  me,  and  all  things  are 
present  with  me,  for  I  know  them  all. 

"And  now,  behold,  this  one  thing  I  show  unto  thee,  Moses,  my  son ;  for 
thou  art  in  the  world,  and  now  I  show  it  unto  thee. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  Moses  looked,  and  beheld  the  world  upon  which 
he  was  created ;  and  Moses  beheld  the  world  and  the  ends  thereof,  and  all  the 
children  of  men  which  are  and  which  were  created ;  of  the  same  he  greatly 
marveled  and  wondered. 

"And  the  presence  of  God  withdrew  from  Moses,  that  His  glory  was  not 
upon  Moses ;  and  Moses  was  left  unto  himself.  And  as  he  was  left  unto  himself, 
he  fell  unto  the  earth; 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


39 


"And  it  came  to  pass  that  it  was  for  the  space  of  many  hours  before  Moses 
did  again  receive  his  natural  strength  like  unto  man;  and  he  said  unto  himself: 
Now,  for  this  cause  I  know  that  man  is  nothing,  which  thing  I  never  had  supposed. 

"But  now  mine  own  eyes  have  beheld  God ;  but  not  my  natural  but  my 
spiritual  eyes,  for  my  natural  eyes  could  not  have  beheld ;  for  I  should  have 
withered  and  died  in  his  presence;  but  his  glory  was  upon  me;  and  I  beheld 
his  face,  for  I  was  transfigured  before  him, 

TEMPTED  OF  SATAN 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  Moses  had  said  these  words,  behold,  Satan 
came  tempting  him,  saying:  Moses,  son  of  man,  worship  me. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  Moses  looked  upon  Satan  and  said :  Who  art  thou  ? 
For  behold,  I  am  a  son  of  God,  in  the  similitude  of  his  Only  Begotten;  and 
where  is  thy  glory,  that  I  should  worship  thee? 

"For  behold,  I  could  not  look  upon  God,  except  his  glory  should  come  upon 
me,  and  I  were  strengthened  before  him.  But  I  can  look  upon  thee  in  the 
natural  man.    Is  it  not  so,  surely? 

"Blessed  be  the  name  of  my  God,  for  his  Spirit  hath  not  altogether  with- 
drawn from  me,  or  else  where  is  thy  glory,  for  it  is  darkness  unto  me?  And 
I  can  judge  between  thee  and  God;  for  God  said  unto  me:  Worship  God,  foV 
him  only  shalt  thou  serve. 

"Get  thee  hence,  Satan;  deceive  me  not;  for  God  said  unto  me:  Thou  art 
after  the  similitude  of  mine  Only  Begotten. 

"And  he  also  gave  me  commandments  when  he  called  unto  me  out  of  the 
burning  bush,  saying :  Call  upon  God  in  the  name  of  mine  Only  Begotten,  and 
worship  me. 

"And  again  Moses  said:  I  will  not  cease  to  call  upon  God,  I  have  other 
things  to  inquire  of  him:  for  his  glory  has  been  upon  me,  wherefore  I  can 
judge  between  him  and  thee.    Depart  hence,  Satan. 

"And  now,  when  Moses  had  said  these  words,  Satan  cried  with  a  loud  voice, 
and  rent  upon  the  earth,  and  commanded,  saying:  I  am  the  Only  Begotten, 
worship  me. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  Moses  began  to  fear  exceedingly;  and  as  he 
began  to  fear,  he  saw  the  bitterness  of  hell.  Nevertheless,  calling  upon  God, 
he  received  strength,  and  he  commanded,  saying :  Depart  from  me,  Satan,  for  this 
one  God  only  will  I  worship,  which  is  the  God  of  Glory. 

"And  now  Satan  began  to  tremble,  and  the  earth  shook ;  and  Moses  received 
strength,  and  called  upon  God,  saying :  In  the  name  of  the  Only  Begotten,  depart 
hence,  Satan. 

■  "And  it  came  to  pass  that  Satan  cried  with  a  loud  voice,  with  weeping,  and 
wailing,  and  gnashing  of  teeth;  and  he  departed  hence,  even  from  the  presence 
of  Moses,  that  he  beheld  him  not." 

Continuing  further  until  we  come  to  the  thirty-ninth  verse,  we  find 
that  the  Lord  appeared  again  to  Moses,  after  this  great  temptation,  and 
made  known  to  him  his  work  and  purpose,  the  end  he  had  in  view. 
Said  he,  "For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to  pass 
the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man." 

If  we  have  not  already  learned  what  the  work  and  purpose  of 
Satan  is,  we  will  perhaps  learn  it  as  we  proceed. 

MAN  TO  HAVE  FREE  AGENCY 

I  will  now  introduce  to  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  another  great 
character  in  connection  with  these  two  of  which  I  have  been  reading 
and  speaking.   This  is  from  the  fourth  chapter  of  Moses : 

"And  I,  the  Lord  God,  spake  unto  Moses  saying:  That  Satan,  whom  thou' 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


hast  commanded,  in  the  name  of  mine  Only  Begotten,  is  the  same  which  was 
from  the  beginning,  and  he  came  before  me  saying — Behold,  here  am  I,  send  me, 
I  will  be  thy  son,  and  I  will  redeem  all  mankind,  that  one  soul  shall  not  be 
lost,  and  surely  I  will  do  it;  wherefore  give  me  thine  honor. 

"But,  behold,  my  Beloved  Son,  which  was  my  Beloved  and  Chosen  from  the 
beginning,  said  unto  me — Father,  thy  will  be  done  and  the  glory  be  thine  forever. 

"Wherefore,  because  that  Satan  rebelled  against  me,  and  sought  to  destroy 
the  agency  of  man,  which  I,  the  Lord  God,  had  given  him,  and  also,  that  I 
should  give  unto  him  mine  own  power;  by  the  power  of  mine  Only  Begotten,  I 
caused  that  he  should  be  cast  down. 

"And  he  became  Satan,  yea,  even  the  devil,  the  father  of  all  lies,  to  deceive 
and  to  blind  men,  to  lead  them  captive  at  his  will,  even  as  many  as  would  not 
hearken  unto  my  voice." 

These  two  great  influences  being  wrought  upon  us,  and  having 
our  agency,  we  are  to  be  judged  by  the  exercise  of  this  agency,  whether 
we  exercise  it  in  righteousness  unto  salvation  and  exaltation  or  in  un- 
righteousness unto  our  condemnation. 

satan's  designs  and  purposes 

In  the  fifth  chapter  of  the  Book  of  Moses ;  we  read  as  follows : 

"And  Adam  and  Eve  blessed  the  name  of  God,  and  they  made  all  things 
known  unto  their  sons  and  their  daughters ;" — preached  the  gospel  to  them,  of 
course. 

"And  Satan  came  among  them,  saying :  I  am  also  a  son  of  God ;  and  he 
commanded  them  saying :  Believe  it  not ;  and  they  believed  it  not,  and  they  loved 
Satan  more  than  God.  And  men  began  from  that  time  forth  to  be  carnal, 
sensual,  and  devilish." 

"And  Satan  said  unto  Cain:"  (A  few  verses  farther  in  the  chapter.)  "swear 
unto  me  by  thy  throat,  and  if  thou  tell  it  thou  shalt  die ;  and  swear  thy  brethren 
by  their  heads,  and  by  the  living  God,  that  they  tell  it  not ;  for  if  they  tell  it,  they 
shall  surely  die;  and  this  that  thy  father  may  not  know  it;  and  this  day  I  will 
deliver  thy  brother  Abel  into  thine  hands. 

"And  Satan  sware  unto  Cain  that  he  would  do  according  to  his  commands. 
And  all  these  things  were  done  in  secret." 

This  shows  also,  the  machinations  of  Satan,  his  designs,  and  pur- 
poses upon  the  lives  of  men  and  women  as  pertaining  to  this  life  and 
the  life  to  come. 

We  also  have  an  account  in  the  first  few  chapters  of  Genesis  of 
the  creation  and  how  that  Adam  and  Eve,  when  they  were  placed  in 
the  garden  of  Eden,  were  tempted  of  this  same  individual,  Satan. 

When  the  Savior  came  here  upon  the  earth,  and  after  his  fasting 
forty  days  and  nights,  he  also  was  tempted  of  Satan.  Again  Satan 
failed  in  his  purpose. 

In  this  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times  when  the  boy 
Joseph  Smith  went  into  the  woods  to  pray,  Satan  was  there.  Evidently 
knowing  what  our  Father  in  heaven  designed  to  accomplish  in  the  last 
days,  through  the  instrumentality  of  this  boy,  Satan  tried  to  destroy  him. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  is  of  record  as  having  said  that,  "All  beings 
who  have  bodies  have  power  over  those  who  have  not — the  devil  has 
no  power  over  us  only  as  we  permit  him.  The  moment  we  revolt 
at  anything  which  comes  from  God,  the  devil  takes  power.  *  *  * 
All  men  have  power  to  resist  the  devil."    (Compendium,  p.  288.) 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


41 


A  WARNING  TO  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Brethren  and  sisters,  these  two  powers  are  operating  upon  the 
minds  and  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men  today  in  the  Church  and 
out  of  the  Church.  Many  of  us  are  tainted,  more  or  less,  having  been 
influenced  by  Satan,  having  yielded  to  his  temptations,  here  a  little 
and  there  a  little ;  and  brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  to  be  warned,  and 
I  desire  in  my  brief  talk  here  to  lift  a  warning  voice  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  for  the  time  is  to  come  in  the  last  days  that  the  very  elect,  if 
possible,  will  be  deceived.  Choose  ye  therefore  this  day  whom  ye  will 
serve. 

There  are  some  who  seem  to  be  willing  to  be  the  emissaries  of  this 
great  being,  Satan,  to  assist  him  in  his  work.  It  is  a  notable  fact  that 
those  who  have  arraigned  themselves  against  God's  work  and  purposes, 
fire  their  darts  at  the  head  of  the  Church ;  and  we  have  a  great  many 
people  now,  some  in  the  Church  and  some  outside,  who  are  trying  their 
utmost  to  destroy  the  influence  of  the  President  of  this  Church;  and 
I  believe  at  the  bottom  of  it  they  would  destroy  this  work  if  possible. 
They  are  enemies  to  God,  but  they  will  surely  find  sooner  or  later  that 
it  is  hard  to  kick  against  the  pricks.  We  have  known  of  men  circulating 
literature  among  the  saints,  calculated  to  destroy  confidence  in  the 
authorities  of  the  Church,  particularly  in  the  head  of  the  Church. 
Fault  is  found  with  the  way  they  handle  the  means  that  are  entrusted 
to  their  care,  the  tithes  of  the  Church.  Others  are  circulating  literature 
calculated  to  encourage  people  to  perpetuate  practices  which  are  by 
the  Church  forbidden.  It  is  the  purpose  of  the  authorities  of  this 
Church  to  live,  and  teach  this  people  to  obey,  the  constitutional  laws  of 
these  United  States ;  and  there  are  people  here  who  take  the  opposite 
course,  criticizing  and  doing  all  they  can  in  opposition  to  the  attitude 
taken  upon  these  questions  by  the  authorities  of  the  Church.  These 
people,  I  think,  are  becoming  the  emissaries  of  Satan,  and  if  they  should 
succeed,  no  doubt  Satan  would  rejoice  exceedingly.  I  want  to  say  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  we  do  not  fear  any  power  or  influence  that  can 
be  brought  upon  this  work  or  the  authorities  of  this  Church  from 
the  outside.  The  most  powerful  influence  with  its  most  dire  effects  is 
that  which  comes  from  members  within  the  Church;  and  when  it  is 
known  that  men  arraign  themselves  against  this  work,  or  the  authorities 
of  this  Church,  if  they  will  not  repent,  they  should  be  dealt  with,  and 
that  speedily.  "It  is  better  that  one  man  shall  perish  than  that  a  whole 
nation  should  dwindle  in  unbelief,"  notwithstanding  we  should  be  full 
of  charity  toward  all  men  as  well  as  toward  the  household  of  faith.  I 
want  to  say  to  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  you  should  not  follow  such  a 
lead. 

A  SURE  AND  SAFE  LEAD 

I  want  to  give  you  a  guide  that  is  sure  and  safe.  If  you  will  be 
one  with  the  Presidency  of  this  Church,  and  with  the  twelve  apostles, 
you  will  never  go  astray.    You  will  be  on  firm  footing.    There  has 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


never  been  a  moment  since  the  organization  of  this  Church  when  the 
President  of  the  Church  and  the  Twelve  Apostles  or  a  majority  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  have  gone  astray.    You  are  safe  to  follow  their  lead. 

And  now,  another  thing  to  make  you  safe  and  secure:  live  your 
religion,  brethren  and  sisters.  I  do  not  know  what  better  advice  and 
counsel  I  can  give  than  to  repeat  what  President  Grant  has  already 
given  us  in  this  conference:  Keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 
Obey  all  his  laws.  The  law  of  tithing?  Yes.  Consecration?  Yes. 
Shall  we  obey  the  command  that  we  love  the  Lord  our  God  with  all 
our  heart,  soul  and  mind?  Yes.  And  our  neighbors  as  ourselves? 
Yes.  And  if  we  do  this,  surely  we  can  do  all  the  other  things  that  are 
required  of  us.  The  Lord  knows  best  and  if  we  will  listen  to  the 
promptings  of  his  Holy  Spirit  and  live  our  religion,  we  shall  not  be 
deceived,  but  shall  know  the  truth,  whether  written  or  spoken,  for  we 
will  be  on  firm  footing. 

TRIUMPH  OF  GOD'S  WORK  ASSURED 

I  know  that  this  work  is  true.  It  is  God's  work  and  not  man's. 
No  man  can  succeed  in  this  work  without  the  help  of  the  Lord,  and  no 
man  can  succeed  on  the  outside  against  this  work,  or  the  authorities 
of  this  Church,  for  in  their  efforts  so  to  do  they  are  opposing  the  Lord. 
I  know  that  Heber  J.  Grant,  the  present  President  of  this  Church,  is  a 
prophet  of  God,  the  mouthpiece  of  God  to  this  people  and  to  the  whole 
world,  at  this  time.  He  is  a  man  of  inspiration,  a  mortal  man  indeed, 
but  a  man  who  seeks  the  mind  and  will  of  God  our  Father  on  all  im- 
portant matters,  a  man  who  seeks  the  advice  and  counsel  of  those  whom 
the  Lord  has  given  him  as  counselors,  a  man  who  is  leading  this  people 
in  righteousness ;  and  I  know  that  this  work  will  succeed  and  triumph. 
It  has  been  established  for  the  purpose  of  preparing  for  the  coming  of 
our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ,  who  is  to  take  this  Church  and 
kingdom  and  reign  a  millennial  reign  of  peace  here  upon  the  earth ;  and 
the  time  of  his  coming  is  not  far  distant.  I  bear  this  testimony  to  you, 
knowing  whereof  I  speak  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  have  been  greatly  impressed,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  by  the 
wonderful  spirit  and  power  of  the  instructions  and  testimonies  borne 
during  the  sessions  of  this  conference  thus  far.  I  rejoice  with  you  in 
the  progress  that  is  being  made  by  this  people.  I  listened  with  great 
interest  to  the  remarks  made  by  President  Grant — the  statement  of  the 
various  advances  being  made  in  the  Church  and  the  building  up  of  the 
work  of  the  Lord.  I  was  impressed  with  his  statement  with  regard 
to  the  observance  of  the  principle  of  tithing. 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


43 


SUSTAINING  THE  AUTHORITIES 

I  rejoice  in  the  faith  which  I  possess  of  the  divinity  of  this  work. 
I  sustain  with  all  my  heart  the  Presidency  of  the  Church.  I  know,  as 
has  been  stated  here  by  President  Richards,  that  President  Grant  is 
inspired  of  the  Lord — that  he  is  the  Lord's  mouthpiece — and  that  his 
counselors  are  inspired.  I  sustain  the  brethren  who  compose  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  and  all  of  the  General  Authorities.  I  have  confidence 
m  these  presidencies  of  the  stakes.  They  are  men  who  are  called  to 
direct  the  various  divisions  of  the  Church  that  are  organized  and 
established.  I  have  confidence  in  these  mission  presidents  who  are 
putting  forth  such  great  efforts  in  that  important  work  of  the  Church — 
the  spread  of  the  gospel — and  the  building  up  of  the  Church  throughout 
the  world.  I  sustain  the  bishoprics.  I  realize  the  wonderful  work  that 
is  being  done  by  these  men  who  preside  over  the  various  wards  through- 
out the  Church.  I  am  impressed  continually  with  the  tremendous  power 
that  is  here  for  good  and  for  righteousness.  I  am  sure  that  we,  every 
one  of  us,  ought  to  take  as  our  motto  that  statement  made  in  the  reve- 
lation which  was  read  by  the  President  this  morning,  that  we  walk 
humbly,  deal  justly  and  judge  righteously.  Those  things  are  important 
to  every  one  of  us. 

CHAPEL  BUILDING  COSTS 

Sometimes  I  have 'felt  that  in  the  building  of  our  chapels  and 
meeting  houses,  beautiful  as  they  are,  there  has  been  a  little  too  much 
competition  or  rivalry  among  some  of  the  wards,  by  the  bishoprics 
and  the  building  committees,  to  make  their  new  meeting  houses  a  little 
finer  than  others  in  the  same  locality.  It  seems  to  me  important  that 
great  care  and  economy  should  be  exercised ;  so  that,  while  we  ac- 
complish what  we  require  in  the  way  of  providing  sufficient  accommoda- 
tions, at  the  same  time  every  effort  be  made  to  spend  as  little  as  is 
possible  of  the  means  raised  locally  by  the  people  and  that  appropriated 
by  the  First  Presidency. 

INCREASE  IN  TITHING 

With  regard  to  the  principle  of  tithing,  I  believe  that  the  tithes 
paid  by  the  saints  throughout  the  Church  thus  far  this  year  amount 
in  total  to  more  than  has  ever  been  paid  before  during  a  similar  period. 
Yet,  as  has  been  stated,  the  demands  upon  the  Church  for  the  vital  things 
that  concern  the  welfare  and  growth  of  this  great  work  require  more 
means  to  be  used  for  its  advancement.  There  are  some  wards  through- 
out the  Church  that  have  as  tithepayers  practically  the  average  quota 
of  those  that  should  pay  tithing.  It  has  been  calculated  that  on  the 
average  about  forty  percent  of  the  membership  of  the  Church,  including 
children,  are  potential  tithepayers.  That  is,  they  are  people  who  are 
earning  means.  This  varies,  of  course,  in  certain  localities  and  under 
different  conditions.  There  are  some  wards,  I  say,  where  there  are 
practically  forty  percent  of  the  membership  that  are  observing  this 
principle. 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


A  FULL  TITHING 

Tithing  means  the  payment  of  one-tenth  of  our  interest  annually. 
It  is  not  the  amount,  primarily,  that  is  important,  but  the  observance  of 
the  principle  in  its  fulness.  If  we  cultivate  the  spirit  of  obedience  to 
this  principle  we  shall,  even  though  our  tithing  be  small  in  amount  to 
begin  with,  grow  in  spirit  and  power  and  ability  to  pay,  and  the  Lord 
will  bless  us  and  enable  us  to  increase  our  tithes  as  we  go  forward. 
I  know  that  this  principle  is  true.  It  is  a  means  of  progress,  growth 
and  development. 

TRAIN  YOUNG  PEOPLE  TO  BECOME  TITHEPAYERS 

I  would  like  to  suggest  to  these  brethren  who  preside  over  the 
various  stakes,  wards  and  missions  throughout  the  Church,  that  they 
endeavor  to  teach,  as  far  as  possible,  all  the  members  of  the  Church 
directly,  and  particularly  the  young  people,  to  pay  their  tithes.  In  our 
own  families,  as  soon  as  our  children  reach  the  age  of  eight  years  and 
are  baptized,  we  should  encourage  them  to  observe  this  principle,  even 
though  the  amount  which  they  pay  annually  may  be  very  small ;  and 
even  though  we  may  have  to  start  them  by  paying  for  them.  A.s 
children  get  far  enough  along  so  that  they  can  earn  a  little  means  they 
should  be  taught  obedience  to  the  law  of  tithing,  the  purpose  of  it  and 
the  way  in  which  the  funds  derived  therefrom  are  employed.  If  this 
is  done,  children  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  will  grow  up  with  faith,  I 
am  sure,  in  this  principle.  It  will  become  a  source  of  strength  to  them. 
It  will  develop  in  them  stability  and  power  for  the  observance  of  every 
other  principle  of  the  gospel. 

DIVINE  PRINCIPLES  PROMOTE  DEVELOPMENT 

I  was  impressed  with  the  statement  made  also  with  regard  to  our 
obedience  to  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  generally.  I  believe  that 
the  observance  of  divine  instructions  is  the  most  effective  means  for  the 
best  development  of  men  and  women.  Recently  a  man  declared  to  me 
that  he  believed  that  in  this  community  there  is  the  making  of  the  finest 
civilization  the  world  has  ever  seen.  He  referred  to  the  wonderful  prin- 
ciples which  are  being  taught  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  called  attention 
to  the  fact  that  though  these  principles  are  not  being  as  fully  observed  as 
they  should  be,  yet  the  extent  of  their  observance  is  such  that  the  people 
are  brought  to  higher  standards  than  otherwise. 

YOUNG  PEOPLE  THE  GREATEST  RESOURCE 

Some  time  ago  a  prominent  banker  in  this  state  made  a  declaration 
with  reference  to  the  resources  of  the  state.  In  effect  he  said  that  the 
finest  and  most  important  resource  of  this  state  is  not  the  agricul- 
tural crop,  not  the  mining  industries,  not  the  banking  or  other  organiza- 
tions, not  the  commercial  progress  of  the  state — but  the  boys  and  girls. 
It  seems  to  me,  if  we  realize  the  fact  that  the  faith  and  devotion  of  the 
individual  members  is  the  source  of  the  greatest  possible  strength  and 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


45 


progress  in  the  Church,  then  we  shall  devote  our  efforts  to  the  training 
and  development  of  these  young  people  in  the  living  of  the  gospel. 

FACTORS  OF  CIVILIZATION 

What  is  it  that  constitutes  the  finest  civilization?  Is  it  physical 
development;?  That  is  important  in  every  instance.  The  Greeks 
were  famed  for  their  splendid  physical  prowess.  They  developed  a 
high  civilization,  based  in  part  upon  their  physical  training  and  upon 
their  architectural  progress.  Other  nations  have  developed  civilizations 
based  upon  military  power.  Others  again,  upon  the  glorification  of  the 
ruling  power  through  oppression  of  the  masses;  and  still  others  upon 
material  achievements  through  inventions  and  discoveries.  It  would 
appear  that  the  finest  civilization  must  be  founded  upon  the  development 
of  high  ideals  in  a  number  of  fundamentals,  such  as  physical  develop- 
ment, education,  progress  in  the  arts,  moral  standards,  industrial  pro- 
gress, fair  dealing  and  faith  in  God. 

PHYSICAL  WELFARE 

Let  us  consider  for  a  moment  that,  living  in  this  nation,  possessed 
of  a  high  civilization,  we  are  greatly  favored,  in  addition,  in  having 
an  understanding  of  divine  principles  which  will  promote  still  higher 
standards  in  all  of  those  who  observe  them.  For  instance,  we  have  in 
the  Word  of  Wisdom  the  finest  guide  possible  for  the  physical  welfare 
of  man.  Again,  we  are  taught  that  in  spirit  we  are  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  God ;  and  that  our  physical  bodies  are  created  in  his  image, 
so  our  faith  will  tend  to  cause  us  to  keep  these  bodies  clean  and  sound 
and  strong. 

MORAL  STANDARDS 

Again,  in  the  matter  of  moral  progress,  I  think  there  is  no  people 
anywhere  who  receive  such  excellent  instruction  and  such  practical 
training  in  high  moral  standards  as  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Among  us 
there  is  no  double  standard  of  virtue.  Every  man  and  every  boy  is 
expected  to  be  just  as  virtuous  and  clean  in  his  life  as  every  girl  and 
every  woman  is  expected  to  be.  Marriage  is  a  sacred  obligation  and 
privilege.  But  the  Lord  has  declared  that  licentiousness  is  most  de- 
grading and  that  it  will  limit  our  progress  here  and  hereafter.  If  we 
fail  in  this  vital  principle  of  morality  it  will  not  be  for  lack  of  instruction 
and  guidance. 

EDUCATION 

Also,  in  education  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  proven  by  their 
works  that  intellectual  advancement  is  of  most  vital  concern  to  all  the 
merbership  of  this  Church.  The  standards  of  education  prevailing  in 
those  states  which  are  populated  largely  by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  are 
among  the  highest  in  comparison  with  the  other  states  throughout  the 
Union.    The  Latter-day  Saint  students  in  universities  and  elsewhere 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


have  demonstrated  their  comparative  ability  and  capacity.  Along  with 
intellectual  development  we  realize  that  religious  training  is  just  as  vital. 

ARTS  AND  INDUSTRIES 

With  respect  to  progress  in  the  arts  and  material  achievements 
the  history  of  this  people  is  evidence  of  the  important  part  these  phases 
of  civilization  have  played  in  our  progress.  Yet,  I  believe  that  we  are 
not  generally  giving  as  earnest  attention  as  we  should  to  the  vocational 
training  of  our  young  people  and  to  the  industrial  development  in  our 
communities.  This  is  an  age  of  industry.  We  are  concerned  with  our 
material  as  well  as  our  spiritual  growth.  I  recommend  to  these  men 
who  are  leaders  in  the  various  communities  that  they  endeavor  to 
encourage  our  young  people  to  qualify  in  all  of  the  vocations  which 
shall  be  most  helpful  in  the  various  communities.  Through  this 
training  and  the  development  of  suitable  industries,  our  communities 
can  be  made  desirable  and  attractive  for  these  young  people,  so  that 
they  may  be  able  to  remain  at  home  and  help  to  make  all  sections  of 
the  Church  prosperous  and  successful. 

UNSELFISHNESS  AND  FAIR  DEALING 

Wholehearted  obedience  to  the  principle  of  tithing  inculcates  in 
man  the  spirit  of  unselfishness.  It  promotes  the  spirit  of  church  and 
community  welfare.  It  encourages  fair  dealing,  for  if  a  man  is  true 
in  his  obligations  toward  God,  he  cannot  be  otherwise  than  straight- 
forward in  his  dealings  with  his  fellowman.  It  helps  to  cultivate 
economy  and  living  within  our  means.  Thus  we  may  gain  material 
happiness.  I  think  it  was  Benjamin  Franklin  who  declared  that  there 
are  two  ways  to  be  happy.  One  is  to  increase  your  income  and  the 
other  is  to  diminish  your  expenses.  Either  one  will  promote  happiness. 
It  has  been  said  that  the  first  lesson  in  the  art  of  being  happy  is  to  learn 
to  do  without  and  like  it.  I  want  to  testify  to  you  that  that  is  true  with 
regard  to  this,  as  well  as  with  regard  to  every  other  principle  of  the 
gospel.  Training  in  moderate  self-denial  is  important  to  every  human 
being,  so  that  we  may  learn  to  control  our  appetites  and  our  improper 
desires.  Therein  is  strength  and  power.  In  like  manner  the  principle 
of  fasting  and  fast  donations  promotes  the  spirit  of  humility,  charity 
and  equality  in  the  hearts  of  those  who  observe  it.  Surely  if  there  is  a 
principle  upon  which  the  stability  of  any  civilization  rests,  it  is  that  of 
mutual  consideration  among  the  members  thereof.  Pride  and  high- 
mindedness  have  been  a  fruitful  source  of  destruction  in  nations  of 
the  past. 

SPIRITUAL  GROWTH 

Finally,  faith  in  God  and  a  lively  sense  of  his  providences  is  a  great 
source  of  strength  in  the  maintenance  of  any  civilization.  The  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  privileged  to  enjoy  a  fulness  of  the  gospel  through 
obedience  to  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  If  we  keep  these  com- 
mandments we  shall  enjoy  the  influence  of  that  Spirit  which  leads  us 
into  all  truth,  and  helps  us  to  grow  in  all  respects  that  will  make  us 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON  47 


stronger  and  better  men  and  women.  It  promotes  integrity  and  purpose. 
It  develops  stability  and  sound  judgment. 

I  am  reminded  of  that  interesting  experience  of  the  Prophet 
Elijah.  You  remember  when  King  Ahab  had  decreed  his  death  and 
Jezebel  had  also  declared  that  the  dogs  should  eat  the  flesh  of  his  body, 
that  Elijah  was  discouraged.  He  went  into  the  desert  where  the  angel 
of  the  Lord  appeared  and  instructed  him  to  proceed  further.  So  he 
went  on  to  Mount  Horeb  and  there  the  evidences  of  the  powers  of 
the  elements  were  made  visible  to  him;  in  the  wind  storm;  in  the 
lightning  and  thunder ;  in  the  earthquake ;  and  after  all  of  these  things, 
the  still  small  voice!  That  testimony  comes  to  everyone  who  observes 
to  keep  these  commandments.  Thereby  we  shall  be  able  to  understand 
what  is  expected  of  us  and  walk  forward  clearly  and  definitely  in  the 
path  of  righteousness  that  leads  to  eternal  life. 

I  do  not  fear  for  the  observance  of  the  principle  of  tithing  or  any 
other  principle  of  the  gospel  if  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  converted  to 
the  truth  of  the  whole,  and  become  possessed  of  a  testimony  of  the 
divinity  of  this  work  through  the  influence  and  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

THE  WORK  IS  GROWING 

I  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  work  is  pro- 
gressing. I  have  occasion  to  know  of  many  things  that  are  being  done 
under  the  direction  of  the  General  Authorities  to  advance  this  work. 
I  do  not  doubt  that  in  time  there  will  be  stakes  organized  in  other  parts 
of  this  great  nation  which  will  help  to  stabilize  the  work  of  the  Lord 
in  those  parts.  I  have  faith  that  divine  instructions  will  be  given  to  us 
from  time  to  time  as  we  are  prepared  to  accept  and  obey  them.  I  know 
that  the  gospel  is  true.  I  rejoice  in  the  privilege  that  has  come  to  me 
to  work  in  this  position.  I  pray  the  Lord  to  help  every  one  of  us  to 
live  in  conformity  with  these  principles  that  we  may  gain  the  benefits 
and  blessings  resulting  therefrom,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  following  telegram  has  been  received: 

"We  are  highly  appreciating  the  conference.    Every  word  is  distinct. 
Students  of  American  Fork  Seminary, 
E.  Ray  Gardner,  Principal." 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  say,  What  is  Truth?" 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Wilford  A.  Beesley, 
President  of  the  Salt  Lake  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  the  following  morning  at  ten  o'clock. 


SECOND  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

The  third  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at  ten 
o'clock  Saturday  morning,  October  5,  1929,  with  President  Heber  J. 
Grant  presiding. 

The  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "How  Firm  a  Foun- 
dation,'' after  which  the  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Leo 
J.  Muir,  President  of  the  Los  Angeles  Stake. 

The  hymn,  "Do  What  is  Right,"  was  sung  by  the  congregation. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

I  am  sure,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  were  all  cheered  yesterday 
morning  as  we  listened  to  the  report  of  our  President  concerning  the 
growth  of  the  Church.  I  was  particularly  impressed  with  it  because 
it  stands  out  in  such  contrast  to  the  reports  that  are  coming  from  govern- 
ment statistics  with  reference  to  other  churches  in  this  country.  Judg- 
ing from  the  records  of  twenty-three  churches  and  their  status  between 
the  years  1916  and  1926,  six  of  these  twenty-three  leading  denomina- 
tions in  the  United  States  suffered  an  actual  loss  in  membership;  and 
while  the  balance  showed  an  increase,  there  is  none  of  them  whose 
percentage  of  increase  its  greater  than  that  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

STRENGTH  AND  GROWTH  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  record  shows  that  so  far  as  our  Church  is  concerned  the  amount 
expended  for  meeting  houses  during  the  past  nine  months  exceeds  that 
for  any  similar  period.  This  stands  in  contrast  to  the  record  of  churches 
in  the  United  States.  On  good  authority  we  are  informed  there  are 
twenty-five  thousand  vacant  churches  in  the  United  States  without  a 
pastor  or  a  congregation ;  while  here  there  is  growth  such  as  the  Church 
has  never  had  before,  with  increase  and  prosperity  attending  the  mem- 
bership of  the  Church. 

It  is  delightful  to  know  that  in  an  age  when  churches  are  being, 
tested  and  tried  and  shaken,  and  doubt  and  uncertainty  are  developing, 
here  there  is  strength,  here  there  is  power,  here  there  is  solidity;  and 
in  the  most  enlightened  age  that  the  world  has  ever  known  for  this 
Church  to  be  making  its  most  rapid  progress,  surely  is  hopeful. 

But  I  am  not  so  much  concerned  with  the  material  growth  of  the 
Church  or  its  increase  in  membership  as  I  am  with  its  growth  in  good 
works,  in  righteousness.  I  am  sure  if  the  Latter-day  Saints  can  be  in- 
duced to  live  up  to  that  high  standard  which  God  has  established  for  us, 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


49 


we  need  not  worry  about  the  Church's  growth  in  membership  nor  its 
material  srtength. 

"we  believe  in  being  honest" 

I  want  to  read  the  thirteenth  Article  of  Faith,  because  there  is  in 
it  something  I  would  like  to  speak  about,  as  I  feel  that  the  attention 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  needs  to  be  called  to  it  because  of  conditions 
that  obtain  in  the  world  that  will  naturally  affect  us. 

"We  believe  in  being  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in  doing 
good  to  all  men;  indeed  we  may  say  that  we  follow  the  admonition  of  Paul — 
We  believe  all  things,  we  hope  all  things,  we  have  endured  many  things,  and 
hope  to  be  able  to  endure  all  things.  If  there  is  anything  virtuous,  lovely,  or 
of  good  report,  or  praiseworthy,  we  seek  after  these  things." 

It  is  that  first  declaration  of  the  Prophet  in  announcing  items  in 
the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  I  wish  to  speak  of : 
"We  believe  in  being  honest." 

Why  I  speak  of  this  is  because  we  are  in  an  age  of  self-indulgence 
so  far  as  the  world  is  concerned,  and  men  are  endeavoring  to  accom- 
plish their  ends  not  always  with  honest  methods.  Short  cuts  are  being 
taken  to  secure  those  desirable  ends.  The  records  of  the  United  States 
for  the  last  year  show,  for  instance,  that  there  was  stolen  from  the 
citizens  of  this  country  by  hold-ups,  at  the  point  of  a  gun,  two  billion 
six  hundred  and  fifty  millions  of  dollars,  all  of  course  unlawfully  taken. 
No  spirit  of  honesty  here.  In  stock  swindling  sales,  wherein  dis- 
honesty is  practiced,  and  sometimes  within  the  law,  there  was  taken 
from  the  people  of  the  United  States  over  six  billions  of  dollars  last 
year.  There  was  lost  through  trusted  employees  committing  forger- 
ies and  thefts  one  hundred  million  dollars.  The  total  of  these  three 
items  for  one  year  is  something  like  nine  billions  of  dollars.  How  long 
could  this  order  of  things  continue  to  increase  as  it  has  been  doing  until 
this  would  no  longer  be  a  land  of  safety  and  security,  but  of  unsafety  and 
insecurity?  If  the  spirit  of  dishonesty  is  in  the  world  naturally  we  will 
be  influenced  by  its  effects,  because  we  live  in  a  very  small  world  to- 
day. What  affects  any  portion  of  this  country  or  the  world,  naturally 
affects  us.  Recently  surety  companies  guaranteeing  the  honesty  and  in- 
tegrity of  men  in  positions  of  trust  have  doubled  their  rates  because 
of  the  increasing  number  who  are  untrue  to  their  trust. 

It  all  impresses  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  with  the  need  of  our 
harking  back  to  that  high  standard  of  old  rugged  honesty  established 
by  the  men  who  laid  the  foundations  of  this  work.  It  is  here  yet, 
yes ;  but  if  we  preserve  it  we  must  be  vigilant,  or  we  shall  succumb  to 
the  influences  that  are  in  the  world  to  corrupt  men. 

MR.  STUDEBAKER'S  TRIBUTE. 

I  remember  being  impressed  years  ago  with  the  standard  of 
Mormon  honesty  and  integrity,  when  at  the  close  of  a  street  meeting  in 
the  city  of  South  Bend,  Indiana,  an  elderly  gentleman  wearing  a  high 
silk  hat,  who  had  driven  up  in  a  carriage,  asked  permission  to  speak. 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


He  was  given  the  privilege  and  said  to  the  people  of  that  city:  "I 
want  you  to  be  kind  to  these  Mormon  elders.  Their  people  are  my 
friends.  I  have  known  them  for  many  years.  They  have  a  motto 
that  appeals  to  me,  and  I  have  discovered  that  they  are  living  up  to 
their  motto,  which  is  that  "a  Mormon's  word  is  as  good  as  his  bond." 
He  remarked  that  he  had  sold  President  Young  his  first  cutter  and 
carriage  after  arriving  in  the  valley,  and  that  he  had  sold  millions  of 
dollars  worth  of  vehicles  to  the  Mormon  people.  He  declared  that  he 
had  not  lost  a  single  dollar  on  a  Mormon.  He  further  remarked,  "I 
cannot  say  that  of  any  other  community  where  my  company  is  doing 
business." 

The  old  gentleman  was  Mr.  Studebaker,  the  founder  of  Studebaker 
Brothers.  I  was  thrilled  to  hear  his  testimony  after  years  of  associa- 
tion with  our  people,  that  he  had  discovered  that  their  word  was  as 
good  as  their  bond.  I  believe  it  will  be  a  word  in  good  season  to  ask 
the  membership  of  the  Church  to  preserve  sacredly  this  high  standard. 
I  believe  that  the  great  majority  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  doing  so. 

A  RULE  OF  CONDUCT 

I  have  been  thinking  about  what  in  this  connection  I  might  give  as 
a  rule  of  conduct  to  follow  to  preserve  this  spirit  of  honesty ;  and  the 
thing  that  has  impressed  me  is  that  God,  in  the  establishment  of  the 
law  of  tithing,  of  which  President  Grant  spoke  yesterday  morning,  was 
laying  down  a  course  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  foliow  that  would 
lead  them  to  be  honest  with  Him  first.  And  I  believe  that  it  is  essen- 
tial that  we  shall  be  honest  with  God  in  order  to  be  fully  honest  with 
our  fellow  men.  I  believe  that  the  man  who  understands  the  law  of> 
tithing  and  accepts  it  as  the  word  of  the  Lord  and  is  not  true  to  it  will 
find  it  easy  not  only  to  rob  the  Lord  but  to  be  untrue  to  his  fellow  men. 
I  believe  that  the  first  step  that  men  take  toward  disregarding  the  laws 
of  man  is  to  disregard  the  laws  of  God. 

When  France  sought  to  maintain  her  government,  her  civilization, 
by  appealing  to  the  rule  of  Reason,  and  God  was  out  of  the  question, 
she  soon  came  to  difficulty.  No  nation  can  fully  preserve  its  institu- 
tions and  wholly  disregard  God.  This  government,  mighty  as  it  is, 
and  greater  as  it  may  become,  shall  still  have  to  observe  and  to  honor 
the  laws  of  God,  the  God  of  this  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ,  according 
to  the  Book  of  Mormon  prophets,  or  it  cannot  stand.  So  I  believe 
that  one  of  the  finest  practices  to  inculcate  into  the  very  hearts  of  men 
true,  genuine  honesty  is  to  teach  them  to  be  honest  before  God.  "Will 
a  man  rob  God"  ?  He  asked  of  the  children  of  Israel  of  old,  and  yet 
He  charged  them  with  having  robbed  Him  in  tithes  and  in  offerings. 

Here  is  a  chance  for  men  to  develop  honesty  without  fear  of 
oppression,  without  fear  of  being  sued;  for  the  Lord  will  not  sue  a 
man.  He  gives  him  the  privilege  of  practicing  the  principle  of  honesty 
out  of  the  high  motives  of  his  own  heart,  impelled  towards  justice  to 
God,  with  only  the  highest  principles  moving  him,  and  without  fear  of 
the  collector.      I  believe  therefore  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  will  do 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


51 


well  to  consider  this  law  as  the  foundation  upon  which  genuine  honesty 
may  be  built,  not  only  between  God  and  man,  but  between  man  and 
his  fellow  man. 

god's  rental 

Surely  this  is  a  righteous  law.  It  is  merely  God's  rental.  A 
man  who  gives  you  right  to  possess  property  and  the  privilege  of  re- 
ceiving returns  from  that  property,  naturally  expects  a  rental  for  the 
use  of  the  land.  But  what  does  he  guarantee?  That  the  sun  will 
shine ;  that  the  moisture  will  come ;  that  the  frost  will  be  stayed ;  that 
the  soil  will  germinate?  No,  he  guarantees  none  of  these  things  ,  — 
only  right  and  title  to  the  land.  And  still  we  expect  to  pay  rental  for 
that  right  and  title.  Who  supplies  these  more  essential  things  —  the 
moisture,  the  fertility  of  the  soil,  the  sunshine,  the  harvest?  God  Al- 
mighty, who  provided  the  earth  itself,  the  proprietor.  He  wants  men 
to  recognize  that  He  is  the  proprietor,  through  observing  the  law  of 
tithing.  Any  man  who  fails  to  pay  his  just  tribute  to  the  provider  of 
these  more  important  and  essential  things  for  the  sustenance  of  life,  is 
robbing  the  Lord  and  is  not  just  in  his  dealings. 

A  HIGHER  LAW 

When  the  Lord  gave  this  Church  the  correct  principles  that  shall 
ultimately  be  established,  known  as  the  Order  of  Enoch,  or  the  United 
Order,  it  was  a  high  ideal  for  them  to  aim  towards,  something  to  work 
for,  but  they  lacked  preparation  for  it.  When  he  introduced  the  law 
of  tithing,  he  called  it  a  schoolmaster  bring  us  to  that  higher  law. 
Men  and  women  who  can  live  up  to  th;s  law  of  tithing  will  be  better 
prepared  for  that  day  to  come,  for  come  it  will,  when  there  will  be 
some  prepared  and  ready  to  maintain  that  higher  law  which  shall  be 
established  in  the  just  economy  of  God,  when  Christ  reigns  with  men 
upon  earth. 

THE  LAW  OF  INHERITANCE 

And  further  than  that,  do  we  not  hope  and  expect  to  have  an  in- 
heritance in  the  celestial  kingdom,  even  upon  this  earth  in  its  redeemed 
and  sanctified  state?  What  are  the  terms  under  which  we  may  ob- 
tain that  inheritance?  The  law  of  tithing  is  the  law  of  inheritance. 
It  leads  to  it.  No  man  may  hope  or  expect  to  have  an  inheritance  on 
this  celestial  globe  who  has  failed  to  pay  his  tithing.  By  the  payment 
of  his  honest  tithing  he  is  establishing  a  right  and  a  title  to  this  inherit- 
ance, and  he  cannot  secure  it  upon  any  other  terms  bat  by  complying 
with  this  and  other  just  requirements  ;  and  this  is  one  of  the  very  essen- 
tial things. 

THEY  WHO  ENTER  THE  CELESTIAL  KINGDOM. 

I  was  asked  by  one  of  my  brethren  recently,  as  he  closed  the 
vaults  of  one  of  the  great  banks,  to  lock  up  the  treasures,  whether  I 
thought  the  day  would  ever  come  when  treasures  could  be  and  would 
be  preserved  without  fear  of  being  stolen  and  it  would  not  be  necessary 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  lock  them  up.  I  remarked  that  surely  that  day  will  come,  for  all 
those  who  will  enter  into  the  celestial  kingdom  will  be  so  honest  that 
they  could  live  and  walk  within  hand's  reach  of  that  which  is  not  theirs 
with  nothing  to  prevent  them  from  possessing  it,  following  that  high 
standard  established  in  the  gospel  of  Christ,  and  the  rectitude  of  their 
own  intentions  being  worked  out  in  actual  living.  For  they  who  enter 
that  state  will  be  so  honest  that  God  can  pave  the  streets  with  gold  and 
set  the  walls  with  jasper  and  diamonds,  without  any  fear  of  their  be- 
ing stolen.  Yes,  there  will  come  such  a  day.  Now,  however,  we  are 
being  proven  to  see  whether  we  are  worthy  to  enter  into  these  high 
and  holy  privileges. 

When  Pope  said  that  "an  honest  man  is  the  noblest  work  of  God," 
he  uttered  a  truth.  I  care  not  how  many  privileges  and  blessings, 
come  to  men,  what  their  ordinations  and  baptisms  may  have  been,  there 
is  no  possibility  of  their  entering  into  the  presence  of  God  by  dishonest 
means. 

Peter  said  unto  the  baptized  saints  in  his  day,  that  unto  their 
baptism,  they  must  add  faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  temperance,  pa- 
tience, godliness.  What  is  godliness  ?  It  is  honesty,  integrity,  purity 
and  virtue.  These  qualities  must  be  added  if  men  shall  seek  to  gain 
admittance  into  that  high  presence.  We  cannot  for  a  moment  consent 
to  the  conceptions  of  many  in  the  world,  that  mere  ceremonies  and 
ordinances,  important  as  the}'  are,  are  the  all-fundamental  and  impor- 
tant things.  They  are  fundamental,  they  are  important,  but  the  more 
important  thing  is  the  living  of  the  gospel,  preparing  to  enter  into  that 
presence  by  receiving  the  training  necessary  and  essential;  and  one  of 
those  essential  things  is  to  develop  within  us  the  spirit  of  honesty,  so 
that  we  will  be  honest  with  God  and  honest  with  our  fellow  men. 

THE  BANKRUPTCY  LAW 

There  is  a  law  called  into  existence  for  the  relief  of  men  who  are 
oppressed  because  of  their  creditors,  and  through  taking  bankruptcy 
men  may  be  released  from  their  obligations.  I  have  many  times  been 
asked  the  question,  who  is  justified  in  taking  bankruptcy  to  avoid  an 
obligation  ?  My  answer  has  been —  and  I  would  like  to  make  it  here, 
and  if  I  am  wrong  I  stand  to  be  corrected —  that  no  Latter-day  Saint, 
so  long  as  his  creditors  give  him  the  chance,  the  faintest  chance,  to  work 
out  and  meet  his  obligations,  ought  to  resort  to  accepting  the  law  of 
bankruptcy.  It  is  only  for  those  who  are  oppressed,  those  who  have 
no  chance,  no  hope,  and  nothing  but  oppression  following  them.  They 
may  be  justified,  but  surely  no  one  who  can  possibly  work  out  his 
problems  with  his  creditors,  ought  to  resort  to  this  means  of  relieving 
himself  of  his  obligations. 

A  PRECIOUS  HERITAGE 

When  my  father  died  he  was  a  poor  man  with  a  large  family,  but 
he  left  us  a  credit  that  I  have  counted  as  worth  more  than  millions.  I 
never  knew  him  to  do  a  dishonest  thing  in  all  his  life,  nor  would  I  be 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


53 


ashamed  for  the  whole  world  to  see  his  acts  revealed.  I  confess  to  you 
that  has  been  a  greater  joy  and  strength  to  me  than  money  would  have 
been.  I  plead  with  you  to  leave  that  kind  of  an  inheritance  to  your 
sons  and  your  daughters,  that  they  may  be  stimulated  and  inspired  by 
your  honesty,  by  your  integrity,  by  your  dependability,  to  be  honest 
with  God  and  with  their  fellow  men;  that  that  heritage  may  be  left! 
with  them  that  may  inspire  them  to  go  on  and  perpetuate  these  high 
standards  in  preparation  for  the  more  glorious  things  that  are  to  come 
to  those  who  can  maintain  such  high  ideals. 

God  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  we  may  not  forget,  in  this 
season  of  harvesting  our  bountiful  crops,  to  settle  with  the  Lord  and 
to  settle  honestly  and  justly  and  fully;' that  we  may  see  growing  in 
ourselves  that  spirit  of  honesty  that  shall  support  and  sustain  us  dur- 
ing these  perilous  times  that  are  upon  us  and  that  shall  come.  I  pray 
for  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  desire  to  express  appreciation  for  my  membership  in  this 
Church  and  how  thankful  I  am  that  the  gospel  found  me  in  my  youth ; 
how  glad  I  am  to  be  in  the  service  of  the  Lord,  and  my  desire  is  to  be 
loyal  to  my  brethren. 

The  Lord  has  blessed  me  with  a  testimony  of  the  truth.  I  am 
so  thankful  that  I  am  not  tossed  about  with  every  wind  of  doctrine  that 
blows.  I  firmly  believe  in  my  God,  the  Father;  and  in  my  Redeemer, 
Jesus  Christ ;  and  in  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

I  want  to  call  attention  to  an  incident  in  the  life  of  our  Master. 
This  was  the  last  day  of  his  public  ministry.  He  was  in  Jerusalem 
on  that  fateful  Tuesday  before  his  crucifixion.  There,  near  the 
Temple  treasury,  he  was  questioned  by  Pharisees,  Sadducees  and 
scribes.  First,  the  Pharisees  asked  him  this  question:  "Is  it  lawful 
to  pay  tribute  to  Caesar?"  Then  a  group  of  Sadducees  questioned  him 
concerning  a  woman  who  had  seven  husbands  and  whose  wife  'would 
shall  be  in  the  resurrection  ?  Then  there  came  to  him  out  of  the  crowd 
a  lawyer  or  scribe  who  propounded  a  very  important  question.  May 
I  quote  from  the  12th  chapter  of  the  gospel  of  St  Mark: 

"And  one  of  the  scribes  came,  and  having  heard  them  reasoning  together, 
and  perceiving  that  he  had  answered  them  well,  asked  him,  Which  is  the  first 
commandment  of  all? 

"And  Jesus  answered  him,  The  first  of  all  the  commandments  is,  Hear,  O 
Israel;  The  Lord  our  God  is:  one  Lord: 

"And  thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy 
soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind,  and  with  all  thy  strength :  this  is  the  first  command- 
ment. 

"And  the  second  is  like,  namely  this,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as 
thyself.    There  is  none  other  commandment  greater  than  these. 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"And  the  scribe  said  unto  him,  Well,  Master,  thou  hast  said  the  truth : 
for  there  is  one  God ;  and  there  is  none  other  but  he ; 

"And  to  love  him  with  all  the  heart,  and  with  all  the  understanding,  and  with 
all  the  soul,  and  with  all  the  strength,  and  to  love  his  neighbor  as  himself,  is 
more  than  all  whole  burnt  offerings  and  sacrifices. 

"And  when  Jesus  saw  that  he  answered  discreetly,  he  said  unto  him, 
Thou  art  not  far  from  the  kingdom  of  God." 

If  our  deep  sense  of  responsibility  to  our  God  and  'to  our  fellow- 
men  were  understood  as  our  Master  intended  it  to  be,  there  would 
be  few  other  laws  needed.  There  would  be  no  occasion  for  the  states 
of  the  Union  to  enact  thirteen  thousand  laws  a  year  if  we  were  living 
the  two  great  laws  given  by  Jesus. 

To  love  one's  neighbor  is  to  be  a  brother  to  him  in  the  largest, 
deepest  and  most  serious  sense  of  the  term.  Neighborliness  is  help- 
fulness, sympathy,  kindliness  and  good  will,  without  any  expectation 
of  reward.  To  expect  a  reward  would  defeat  the  very  ideals  of 
neighborliness. 

Men  and  women  throughout  the  United  States  and  in  this  great 
Latter-day  Saint  Church  of  ours  are  trying  to  apply  this  law.  Rich 
men  are  disposing  of  their  wealth  so  that  it  will  be  helpful  to  their 
neighbors.  There  are  some  wonderful  examples  in  this  country,  of  the 
distribution  of  great  wealth  to  help  those  less  fortunate. 

Among  the  Latter-day  Saints  the  principle  of  neighborliness  has 
prevailed.  Years  ago  I  listened  to  a  discourse  by  President  Anthon 
H.  Lund.  He  emphasized  the  fact  that  all  mankind  are  our  neighbors, 
but  particularly  those  of  the  household  of  faith. 

Every  person  should  be  given  an  opportunity  to  live  a  normal 
life,  and  bishops  are  anxious  that  the  members  of  their  respective 
wards  should  have  this  opportunity.  Organizations  and  societies, 
particularly  the  great  Relief  Society,  are  always  helping  men  and 
women  to  live  a  normal  life.  To  live  such  a  life  it  is  necessary  that 
the  individual  have  health,  an  occupation,  recreation,  an  education, 
and  a  love  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  man  without  employment 
is  not  living  a  normal  life.  Every  man  should  be  earning  a  livelihood 
for  the  maintenance  of  his  family.  If  he  does  not  do  this,  then  someone 
else  must  do  it,  and  this  frequently  leads  to  the  loss  of  self-respect 
and  pauperism. 

The  early  pioneers  came  here  almost  destitute,  but  with  courage 
and  determination  they  wrung  from  the  soil  the  necessities  for  their 
sustenance.  They  took  the  wool  from  the  sheep;  hides  were  tanned 
into  leather ;  cotton  was  cultivated ;  and  clothing  was  made,  mostly 
at  home.  Later  factories  developed.  These  were  small  community 
industries,  but  they  answered  the  purpose  and  provided  clothing  and 
other  necessities  for  the  people.  Later  came  an  effort  to  establish 
the  United  Order,  but  the  Latter-day  Saints  were  not  prepared  for 
this  system  of  living.  Then  that  great  statesman  and  prophet,  Brig- 
ham  Young,  established  in  many  of  the  communities  of  the  Latter-day 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


55 


Saints  a  cooperative  system  of  buying  and  selling.  Some  of  these 
stores  are  still  doing  business.  Now  we  are  in  a  competitive  era  or 
epoch  where  great  aggregations  of  capital  controlling  highly  specialized 
industries,  practically  dominate  the  avenues  of  production.  This  has 
compelled  men  and  women  to  sell  their  handicraft  and  ability — what 
we  call  labor — for  wages  upon  which  they  live.  Now  we  have  the 
chain  system  of  buying  and  selling.  What  the  future  holds  for  the 
working  man  is  difficult  to  foresee. 

One  of  the  greatest  problems,  however,  is  that  of  employment, 
especially  for  our  brethren  and  sisters  who  have  passed  middle  age. 
The  other  day  I  read  of  one  great  establishment  employing  fifty 
thousand  men  and  women.  The  average  age  of  these  employees  is 
thirty-two  years.  Today  is  the  young  man's  day.  Our  older  brethren 
are  having  quite  a  struggle.  Some  of  them  have  reared  families,  sent 
boys  and  girls  into  the  mission  field,  and  haven't  been  able  to  accumu- 
late means  to  sustain  themselves  in  their  old  age.  Tragedy  comes  into  the 
lives  of  these  men  when  notice  is  given  them  that  their  services  are 
no  longer  needed. 

There  are  quite  a  number  of  our  people  who  have  failed  in  their 
little  communities.  They  become  despondent,  and,  seeing  rosy  ad- 
vertisements in  the  newspapers,  think  that  if  they  could  only  get  to 
Salt  Lake  City  they  could  obtain  employment.  Many  of  them  suffer 
disappointment. 

Then  there  is  the  problem  of  the  young  missionary,  nearly  a 
thousand  of  whom  return  from  the  missions  each  year  and  find  it  very 
hard  to  establish  themselves  in  the  communities  where  they  formerly 
lived.  There  is  also  the  problem  of  the  widow  left  with  a  family  to 
rear,  whose  only  possession  may  be  a  little  home  and  lot.  She  feels 
that  if  she  could  get  to  Salt  Lake  she  would  be  able  to  do  housework, 
cleaning,  etc.  Most  of  this  class  are  disappointed.  There  are  many 
other  angles  to  this  situation  which  time  will  not  permit  me  to  mention. 

Winter  is  coming  and  many  who  are  now  employed  will  soon  be 
discharged.  They  will  come  to  the  bishops  and  others  for  help.  As 
much  as  possible  is,  being  done  by  the  employment  department  of  the 
Presiding  Bishop's  Office  and  by  the  General  Board  of  Relief  Society, 
but  this  is  largely  local.  It  furnishes  help  to  those  only  who  live  within 
a  small  radius.  There  are  thousands  of  others  who  need  assistance. 
In  order  to  reduce  this  unemployment,  may  I  make  a  few  suggestions. 
First,  that  the  presidents  of  the  stakes  and  high  councils,  in  their 
monthly  meetings,  discuss  the  local  situation  and  try  to  furnish  employ- 
ment for  people  who  are  out  of  work  in  their  own  stakes.  Second,  the 
bishoprics  of  wards  at  their  monthly  meetings  with  the  ward  teachers 
should  inquire  of  those  in  need  of  employment  in  ' the  various  districts. 
Then  every  member  of  that  ward  should  try  to  furnish  it.  Third,  at 
the  regular  bishopric  meeting,  which  should  be  held  every  week,  the 
bishopric  of  the  ward  should  discuss  and  if  possible  provide  ways  and 
means  of  helping  those  who  are  seeking  employment.    Fourth,  the 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


quorums  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  should  also  help.  Their  meet- 
ings should  be  something  more  than  calling  rolls  and  discussing  doctrine, 
important  as  such  work  may  be.  If  the  one  hundred  and  three  quorums 
of  high  priests,  the  one  hundred  quorums  of  seventy,  and  nearly  five 
hundred  quorums  of  elders,  would  make  it  their  business  to  look  after 
the  temporal  welfare  of  their  members,  marvelous  things  could  be 
done.  There  are  approximately  two  thousand  classes  of  high  priests, 
seventies  and  elders  in  the  various  wards,  some  of  these  units  being 
quite  small,  others  large,  and  if  they  made  it  a  part  of  their  business 
to  find  out  who  is  seeking  employment,  no  doubt  many  could  be  found 
employment.  All  it  needs  is  a  little  more  sympathy,  a  little  more 
kindness,  a  little  more  helpfulness,  so  that  we  may  show  our  Master 
that  we  are  trying  to  love  our  neighbor. 

There  is  another  story  of  the  Master  on  that  fateful  Tuesday  that 
I  desire  to  mention.  After  he  had  left  the  temple  he  went  with  his 
disciples  upon  the  Mount  of  Olives  and  made  this  statement  concerning 
the  future: 

"When  the  Son  of  man  shall  come  in  his  glory  and  all  the  holy  angels  with 
him,  then  shall' he  sit  upon  the  throne  of  his  glory: 

"And  before  him  shall  be  gathered  all  nations :  and  he  shall  separate  them 
one  from  another,  as  a  shepherd  divideth  his  sheep  from  the  goats : 

"And  he  shall  set  the  sheep  on  his  right  hand,  but  the  goats  on  the  left. 

"Then  shall  the  King  say  unto  them  on  his  right  'hand,  Come,  ye  blessed 
of  my  Father,  inherit  the  kingdom  prepared  for  you  from  the  foundation  of  the 
world : 

"For  I  was  an  hungered,  and  ye  gave  me  meat :  I  was  thirsty  and  ye  gave 
me  drink:  I  was  a  stranger,  and  ye  took  me  in: 

"Naked,  and  ye  clothed  me :  I  was  sick,  and  ye  visited  me :  I  was  in  prison, 
and  ye  came  unto  me. 

"Then  shall  the  righteous  answer  him  saying,  Lord,  when  saw  we  thee  an 
hungered,  and  fed  thee  ?  or  thirsty,  and  gave  thee  drink  ? 

"When  saw  we  thee  a  stranger  and  took  thee  in  ?  or  naked  and  clothed  'thee  ? 

"Of  when  saw  we  thee  sick,  or  in  prison,  and  came  Unto  thee  ? 

"And  the  King  shall  answer  and  say  unto  them,  Verily  I  say  unto  you, 
Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of  the  least  of  these  my  brethren,  ye  have 
done  it  unto  me." 

The  Lord  has  not  blessed  all  with  the  same  power  and  ability  to 
acquire  wealth.  Let  us  have  sympathy  for  our  unfortunate  brethren. 
The  unemployment  problem  would  not  be  a  serious  one  if  the  members 
of  this  great  Church  of  ours  would  all  lend  a  helping  hand  and  make 
every  effort  to  retain  in  the  wards  not  only  elderly  persons  and  widows, 
but  the  young  men  and  women  who  frequently  leave  the  community 
to  seek  employment  and  who  are  so  badly  needed  in  the  communities 
where  they  were  reared. 

May  the  Lord  add  his  blessings  to  these  thoughts.  May  we  think 
seriously  of  the  suggestions  I  have  made,  and  may  the  power  and 
strength  of  this  great  congregation  be  applied  as  the  Master  desires — 
in  service  to  our  fellowmen.  Amen. 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


57 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  am  very  glad  and  happy  that  we  as  A  people  have  passed  safely 
over  another  six  months  period. 

I  desire  to  say  to  you  that  my  life  is  being  crystallized  into  a  very 
few  things  that  are  important  to  me.  The  great  hope  that  I  have  is  to 
be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  I  have  a  great  desire  to  be  true  and 
faithful  and  devoted  in  my  work;  to  be  honest,  frank  and  straight- 
forward with  the  people.  I  know  of  no  other  way.  I  can  see  no  other 
outlook,  and  I  have  no  other  desire  than  to  sustain  the  priesthood  of 
God,  to  uphold  those  whom  we  sustain  as  prophets,  seers  and  revelators 
in  the  Church  of  Christ.  If  there  is  not  safety  in  this  there  is  no 
safety  for  the  Latter-day  Saint  people. 

I  have  never  in  all  my  travelings  and  teachings  among  the  people 
been  told  what  to  say.  I  realize  the  importance  of  this  occasion.  I 
understand  what  time  means.  At  the  conference  six  months  ago  I 
was  fortunate  in  being  called  upon,  and  I  occupied  three  minutes.  To 
my  surprise  I  was  complimented  everywhere  I  went.  People  say  it 
was  the  best  sermon  I  ever  preached.  Of  course,  did  I  believe  what 
they  said  to  me  I  would  close  now ;  but  I  have  what  I  think  is  a  message, 
at  least  I  desire  to  call  your  attention  to  a  certain  matter  that  transpired 
with  me  this  year. 

About  the  fourteenth  or  fifteenth  of  August  Dr.  George  W.  Middle- 
ton,  together  with  Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young  and  the  doctor's  son,  (I 
was  an  invited  guest),  went  by  auto  to  Casper,  Wyoming,  515  miles 
distant  from  Salt  Lake  City.  The  purpose  of  the  meeting  which  we 
there  attended,  was  to  honor  the  pioneers.  It  was  held  under  the 
auspices  of  the  Oregon  Trail  Memorial  Association.  The  officers  of 
this  Memorial  Association  are  as  follows :  President,  Howard  R. 
Driggs;  Vice-President,  David  G.  Wylie;  Secretary,  Ellen  Eaton; 
Treasurer,  Guthrie  Y.  Barber.  There  are  also  fifteen  directors.  Dr. 
Middleton  is  appointed  to  look  after  the  markers  in  Utah. 

I  now  read  the  parting  words  of  Mr.  Meeker: 

"  'I  am  not  quite  ready  to  go ;  my  work  is  unfinished,'  were  at  once  a  benedic- 
tion and  a  request  to  the  Memorial  Association.  They  reflect  the  inner  spirit 
of  the  foundation  of  the  Oregon  Trail  Memorial  Association.  At  the  same 
time  they  lay  sacredly  upon  us  the  great  cause  for  which  he  gave  his  last  full 
measure  of  devotion." 

It  is  not  my  purpose  to  enlarge  upon  this  Oregon  Trail  subject. 
Never  before,  strange  to  say,  (and  I  was  born  soon  after  the  people 
arrived  in  this  valley)  did  I  get  the  spirit  of  what  it  all  meant.  I  have 
never  understood,  I  have  never  comprehended,  what  it  all  meant  to 
our  fathers  and  mothers,  the  pioneers.  But  I  confess  to  you  that  I 
have  had  that  feeling  burning  within  my  bosom,  that  desire,  to  do 
honor  to  those  great  men  and  great  women  who  made  it  possible  in 
this  day  for  us  to  enjoy  all  the  comforts  of  life. 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  quote  from  Professor  Driggs: 

"We  are  brought  a  little  closer  to  the  tragic  cause  of  it  all  when  we  realize 
that  fully  twenty  thousand  lost  their  lives  in  an  effort  to  reach  the  Golden  West 
They  had  no  means  of  marking  the  graves  of  the  dead  in  those  prairie  stretches. 
Only  one  grave  out  of  all  of  the  twenty  thousand,  so  far  as  we  know,  is  surely 
marked.  I  refer  here  to  the  grave  of  the  pioneer  mother  near  Scott's  Bluff, 
Nebraska.  When  Rebecca  Winters  passed  away  one  of  the  company  had  the 
forethought  to  pick  up  an  old  wagon  tire  that  lay  along  the  trail.  Bending 
it  into  an  oval  he  set  the  tire  within  the  grave.  On  the  top  of  the  tire  was  chiseled 
the  mother's  name  and  age.  A  party  of  surveyors  laying  out  the  railroad  along  the 
North  Platte  happened  by  mere  chance  to  run  their  line  right  over  the  mother's 
grave.  Then  the  surveyors,  with  a  touch  sympathy  that  is  beautiful  to  think 
of,  went  back  for  twenty  miles  and  changed  the  line  of  survey,  that  it  might 
miss  the  mother's  grave." 

That  is  the  purpose  of  this  organization,  and  they  contemplate  in 
the  year  1930  a  great  gathering  at  Independence  Rock.  They  desire 
to  make  that  a  national  marker  in  the  United  States.  It  is  a  great 
barren  rock.  I  have  read  of  it  many  times  but  never  saw  it  before. 
These  markers  will  call  the  attention  of  the  people  to  what  has  been 
accomplished  by  these  pioneers,  a  thing  that  many  people  know  very 
little  about.  I  desire  to  be  one  among  the  number  to  honor  such  men 
and  women. 

At  Casper  we  held  a  meeting  Friday  evening.  I  think  there  were 
something  like  two  hundred  people  assembled,  who  were  among  the 
best  and  choicest  of  the  people  of  that  community.  Professor  Driggs, 
Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young  and  Dr.  Middleton  talked.  The  people  were 
friendly,  they  were  courteous,  they  were  in  sympathy  with  the  Mormon 
pioneer  people  as  well  as  the  Memorial  Association  of  the  Oregon  trail. 

There  is  a  story — it  is  beautiful — I  love  to  make  an  effort  to  tell 
it.  The  history  of  the  West  sounds  like  tales  of  the  Arabian  Nights; 
but  as  far  as  I  know  only  parts  of  it  have  ever  been  told. 

Dr.  Driggs  asks:  "Will  the  warp  hold?  It  will  hold  providing 
we  can  keep  alive  the  sacred  stories  of  the  pioneer  builders  of  this 
nation  in  the  hearts  of  American  boys  and  girls." 

Coincident  with  the  Mormon  Pioneer  movement  their  prophet 
prophesied  they  would  go  to  the  Rocky  Mountains,  and,  in  a  way,  they 
were  forced  to  go  west.  They  started  out  not  for  conquest,  not  intent 
upon  spoil,  but  to  worship  God,  build  up  cities,  do  mighty  deeds  and  to 
build  for  greater  happiness. 

Had  it  not  been  for  great  spiritual  leaders  this  barren  wilderness 
could  never  have  been  peopled  in  so  short  a  time,  and  it  would  not  have 
gained  much  momentum  had  it  not  been  for  immigration.  It  would 
appear  that  this  people  threw  themselves  almost  blindly  into  what  would 
seem  to  the  natural  man,  impossible,  but  under  the  leadership  of  inspired 
men  they  accomplished  the  unbelievable. 

We  must  not  forget  to  remind  the  next  generations  of  the  glorious 
strength  of  faith,  hope,  courage  and  the  love  of  God  they  possessed. 

Try  to  remember  that  the  pioneer,  no  matter  of  what  race,  is 
fast  disappearing.   Often  he  is  a  tragic  figure.   History  is  leaving  him 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


59 


behind.  Few  of  us  are  so  gifted  as  to  be  able  to  attract  and  to  converse 
intelligently  with  our  own  children.  A  parent  must  be  a  genius  to  tell 
of  the  days  of  their  strength,  the  days  of  their  suffering,  sorrows  and 
defeats,  and  yet  make  clear  how  they  won  glorious  victories. 

The  next  generation  cannot  feel,  neither  can  they  understand, 
sense  or  appreciate  what  it  all  means,  surrounded  as  they  are  with  ease, 
comforts  and  luxuries.  They  are  unmindful,  and  it  should  be  burned 
into  their  souls  and  memories,  to  respect  the  doting  pioneer,  tottering 
with  old  age,  to  remember  their  minds  are  stored  with  the  richest  ex- 
perience and  historic  lore. 

We  have  no  way  of  testing  and  proving  the  next  generation, 
through  trials,  sacrifices  and  suffering;  neither  can  we  force  these 
historical  truths  upon  them,  and  to  reason  would  seem  fruitless.  It  is 
said:    "People  shape  their  lives  largely  the  way  we  are  today  living." 

I  have  thought  a  great  deal  about  our  fathers  and  mothers  and 
their  great  object,  and  I  have  wondered  what  it  was  that  the  Latter-day 
Saint  people  had — the  desire,  the  ambition,  the  faith  and  the  hope — 
that  enabled  them  to  sacrifice,  suffer  and  die  for  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  I  am  made  to  understand  what  their  great  objective  was. 
Something  new  had  transpired.  God  the  Father  and  Jesus  Christ  the 
Son  had  appeared  to  that  young  man  Joseph;  and  also  the  everlasting 
gospel,  a  knowledge  of  the  truth  as  it  is  in  Jesus  Christ  and  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation,  had  been  revealed.  The  restoration  of  the 
gospel,  the  restoring  of  the  priesthood  with  all  its  keys  and  its  powers 
and  authorities  were  conferred  upon  these  men ;  also  the  eternity  of  the 
marriage  covenant,  including  a  plurality  of  wives. 

The  bringing  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  redemption  of 
Zion,  and  the  building  up  the  City  of  Jerusalem,  and  the  gathering 
of  the  Ten  Tribes — these  were  the  great  objectives  that  were  placed 
before  our  fathers  and  mothers. 

I  often  think  of  mother,  and  while  she  was  a  very  practical  woman, 
a  woman  who  lived  by  faith,  a  woman  who  had  suffered  and  sacrificed, 
a  woman  who  had  left  her  whole  race  of  people  and  was  the  only  one 
we  know  of  who  has  ever  been  converted  from  her  immediate  family, 
yet  mother  had  that  great  vision  of  the  celestial  glory,  of  becoming  a 
queen.  And  surely  she  is  a  queen,  because  when  I  visited  her  people 
I  brought  to  her  over  one  hundred  names  of  her  ancestors,  and  we  went 
into  the  temple  at  Logan  and  did  the  work  for  that  good  mother  of  ours. 

That  was  the  dream,  that  was  the  great  vision,  that  they  had  of  the 
future;  and  that  was  why  they  were  sustained  in  their  suffering  and 
in  their  sacrifices  and  in  their  troubles  and  in  their  tragedies. 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  what  is  your  objective?  That  ques- 
tion has  been  put  to  me  more  than  once.  Our  objective  is  to  carry  out 
the  will  of  God  and  through  the  direction  of  his  servants  the  prophets 
to  fulfil  every  prophecy  and  every  revelation  that  we  find  written  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants ;  for  surely  God  will  not  forsake  his  people 
if  they  will  repent  of  their  sins.    It  is  needless  for  me  to  say  more. 

For  the  past  week  or  so  I  have  read  the  Book  of  Mormon  through, 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  I  was  surprised  how  deeply  interested  I  became  in  the  people  who 
inhabited  this  continent.  I  discovered  that  whenever  they  served  God 
and  kept  his  commandments  they  prospered  in  the  land ;  and  whenever 
they  failed  (and  I  hope  we  will  never  fail)  then  came  their  destruction, 
until  that  people  became  extinct. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  you.  I  pray  God  to  be  with  each  and  all  of 
us,  for  I  do  not  believe  that  a  man  can  remain  faithful  in  this  Church 
and  devoted  and  true  to  his  covenants,  who  fails  to  keep  the  com- 
mandments and  who  has  not  a  testimony  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  To 
this  end  I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  may  rest  upon  us,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

I  realize  that  I  am  standing  in  the  presence  of  the  strength  of 
Israel ;  in  the  presence  of  men  who  have  been  tried  and  proved ;  who 
have  been  called  to  responsible  positions  in  the  Church,  in  stakes,  in 
wards,  and  in  missions.  These  calls  have  come  because  of  integrity 
and  obedience  to  the  principles  of  the  gospel  and  the  kingdom  of  God. 

DUTIES  OF  WATCHMEN  ON  THE  TOWERS 

I  desire  to  address  myself  more  particularly  to  you,  my  brethren. 
We  are  watchmen  on  the  towers  of  Zion.  The  Lord  has  placed  in  our 
hands  great  and  wonderful  responsibilities.  No  men  anywhere  in  all 
the  earth,  no  matter  what  their  calling,  hold  responsibility  equal  to 
that  which  we  have  received,  for  we  have  had  conferred  upon  us  the 
priesthood  of  God.  We  are  possessed  of  divine  authority  and  have 
been  set  apart  as  his  servants  and  watchmen  upon  the  towers  of  Zion. 
Our  duty  is  to  teach,  to  guide  and  direct  the  members  of  the  Church 
in  the  path  of  righteousness.  Our  duty  is  to  set  examples  before  the 
world,  that  they,  seeing  our  good  works,  may  glorify  our  Father  in 
heaven,  and  have  faith  and  confidence  in  us.  It  is  our  duty  to  warn 
all  men  and  endeavor  to  teach  them  the  truth,  so  that  those  who  will 
not  hearken  may  be  left  without  excuse. 

I  endorse  all  that  has  been  said  at  this  conference  and  I  hope 
that  the  things  we  have  been  taught  will  find  place  in  our  hearts 
and  that  they  may  never  be  removed.  Something  has  been  said,  very 
timely,  very  necessarily,  in  regard  to  the  sacrament,  in  regard  to  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  the  payment  of  tithing  and  offerings,  in  regard  to 
fasting  and  other  principles  of  the  gospel.  There  are  one  or  two 
thoughts  that  I  desire  to  present  in  relation  to  the  question  of  the 
sacrament,  more  particularly  in  regard  to  the  meetings  that  have  been 
set  apart  in  the  Church  by  revelation,  by  commandment  of  the  Lord, 
for  the  partaking  of  these  emblems  representing  the  body  and  the 
blood  of  Jesus  Christ. 

THE  INTRODUCTION  OF  THE  SACRAMENT 

In  my  judgment  the  sacrament  meeting  is  the  most  sacred,  the 
most  holy,  of  all  the  meetings  of  the  Church.    When  I  reflect  upon 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


61 


the  gathering  of  the  Savior  and  his  apostles  on  that  memorable  night 
when  he  introduced  the  sacrament ;  when  I  think  of  that  solemn 
occasion  my  heart  is  filled  with  wonderment  and  my  feelings  are 
touched.  I  consider  that  gathering  one  of  the  most  solemn  and  wonder- 
ful since  the  beginning  of  time.  There  the  Savior  taught  them  of  his 
coming  sacrifice,  which  in  their  bewilderment  they  could  not  understand. 
He  plainly  told  them  of  his  death  and  that  his  blood  should  be  shed, 
and  this  was  said  in  the  very  hour  of  his  agony  for  the  sins  of  the 
world.  It  was  a  very  solemn  occasion;  there  the  sacrament  was 
instituted,  and  the  disciples  were  commanded  to  meet  together  often 
and  commemorate  the  death  and  sufferings  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  his 
sacrifice  was  for  the  redemption  of  the  world.  He  was  about  to  take 
upon  him  the  responsibility  of  paying  the  debt  brought  upon  the 
world  through  the  fall,  that  men  might  be  redeemed  from  death  and 
from  hell.  He  had  taught  the  people  that  he  was  to  be  lifted  up  that 
he  might  draw  all  men  unto  him,  and  that  all  who  would  repent  and 
believe  in  him,  keeping  his  commandments,  should  not  suffer  for  he 
would  take  upon  himself  their  sins. 

THE  PURPOSE  OF  SACRAMENT  MEETINGS 

We  have  been  called  upon  to  commemorate  this  great  event  and 
to  keep  it  in  mind  constantly.  For  this  purpose  we  are  called  together 
once  each  week  to  partake  of  these  emblems,  witnessing  that  we  do 
remember  our  Lord,  that  we  are  willing  to  take  upon  us  his  name  and 
that  we  will  keep  his  commandments.  This  covenant  we  are  called  upon 
to  renew  each  week  and  we  cannot  retain  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  if 
we  do  not  consistently  comply  with  this  commandment.  If  we  love 
the  Lord  we  will  be  present  at  these  meetings  in  the  spirit  of  worship 
and  prayer,  remembering  the  Lord  and  the  covenant  we  are  to  renew 
each  week  through  this  sacrament  as  he  has  required  it  of  us. 

APPROPRIATE  SERVICES 

I  do  not  believe  that  the  Lord  is  pleased  with  us  when  we  turn 
this  sacred  meeting  into  a  concert.  I  do  not  believe  that  he  is  pleased 
with  us  if  we  assemble  in  this  meeting  in  a  spirit  of  levity  and  not 
solemnity.  I  am  sure  he  is  not  pleased  when  men  are  called  to  speak 
in  these  services  whose  hearts  are  not  touched  by  the  principles  of 
the  gospel,  and  when  they  have  no  faith  in  the  mission  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  when  they  cast  doubts  upon  the  efficacy  of  his  atonement  and  the 
sacrifice  he  made  for  the  sins  of  the  world.  I  am  sure  he  is  not  pleased 
when  we  meet  on  such  occasions  to  be  amused,  to  be  entertained,  rather 
than  to  be  instructed  and  to  obtain  spiritual  education  and  thought 
and  reflection. 

I  do  not  believe  it  is  necessary,  very  frequently  at  least,  for 
presiding  officers  to  go  outside  of  their  wards  and  stakes  to  find 
speakers ;  not  that  this  is  something  they  should  never  do,  but  I  think 
we  many  times  ignore  worthy  men  living  in  our  wards  who  are  filled 
with  the  spirit  of  the  gospel.    I  know  it  is  not  pleasing  to  me  when 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  attend  a  service  and  someone  is  called  upon  to  speak  who  stands 
before  the  people  and  presents,  though  it  be  in  a  pleasing  way,  some 
platitudes,  some  philosophy  of  men, — the  ideas  of  those  who  today 
mould  the  thought  of  the  world,  but  who  in  their  own  hearts  have  no 
faith  in  or  love  for  Jesus  Christ — or  who  discuss  questions  at  variance 
with  the  fundamental  principles  of  the  gospel.  I  think  this  is  an 
occasion  when  the  gospel  should  be  presented,  when  we  should  be  called 
upon  to  exercise  faith  and  to  reflect  on  the  mission  of  our  Redeemer 
and  to  spend  time  in  thei  consideration  of  the  saving  principles  of  the 
gospel,  and  not  for  other  purposes.  Amusement,  laughter,  light- 
mindedness,  are  all  out  of  place  in  the  sacrament  meetings  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  We  should  assemble  in  the  spirit  of  prayer,  of  meekness, 
with  devotion  in  our  hearts.  I  know  of  no  other  place  where  we  can 
gather  where  we  should  be  more  reflective  and  solemn  and  where  more 
of  the  spirit  of  worship  should  be  maintained. 

SOLEMN  ASSEMBLIES 

The  Lord  called  upon  the  people  in  an  early  day  of  the  Church 
to  meet  in  solemn  assembly,  and  speaking  of  these  assemblies,  he  said : 

"Organize  yourselves ;  prepare  every  needful  thing,  and  establish  a  house,  even 
a  house  of  prayer,  a  house  of  fasting,  a  house  of  faith,  a  house  of  learning,  a 
house  of  glory,  a  house  of  order,  a  house  of  God ; 

"That  your  incomings  may  be  in  the  name  of'  the  Lord,  that  your  outgoings 
may  be  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  that  all  your  salutations  may  be  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  with  uplifted  hands  unto  the  Most  High." 

"Therefore,  cease  from  all  your  light  speeches,  from  all  laughter,  from  all 
your  lustful  desires,  from  all  your  pride  and  light-mindedness,  and  from  all 
your  wicked  doings." 

We  should  not  get  the  idea  from  this  scripture  that  the  Lord 
is  displeased  with  us  when  we  laugh,  when  we  have  merriment,  if  it 
is  on  the  right  occasions.  He  has  said,  however,  that  in  our  solemn 
assemblies  such  things  as  light-mindedness,  laughter  and  merriment 
are  out  of  order.  We  should  cease  from  all  light  speeches,  laughter 
and  wrongful  thoughts  and  desires,  from  all  things  which  will  detract 
from  the  teachings  and  the  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

I  felt  that  I  would  like  to  say  this  much  after  listening  to  the 
excellent  remarks  on  the  sacrament  and  the  purpose  for  which  it  was 
instituted. 

COVENANTS   AND  OBLIGATIONS 

In  conclusion  I  want  to  ask  you  a  few  questions,  and  I  speak,  of 
course,  to  all  the  members  of  the  Church.  Do  you  think  a  man  who 
comes  into  the  sacrament  service  in  the  spirit  of  prayer,  humility, 
and  worship,  and  who  partakes  of  these  emblems  representing  the  body 
and  blood  of  Jesus  Christ,  will  knowingly  break  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord?  If  a  man  fully  realizes  what  it  means  when  he  partakes  of 
the  sacrament,  that  he  covenants  to  take  upon  him  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ  and  to  always  remember  him  and  keep  his  commandments, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  63 


and  this  vow  is  renewed  week  by  week — do  you  think  such  a  man 
will  fail  to  pay  his  tithing?  Do  you  think  such  a  man  will  break  the 
Sabbath  day  or  disregard  the  Wjord  of  -Wisdom?  Do  you  think  he  will 
fail  to  be  prayerful,  and  that  he  will  not  attend  his  quorum  duties  and 
other  duties  in  the  Church?  It  seems  to  me  that  such  a  thing  as  a 
violation  of  these  sacred  principles  and  duties  is  impossible  when  a  man 
knows  what  it  means  to  make  such  vows  week  by  week  unto  the  Lord 
and  before  the  saints. 

If  we  have  the  right  understanding  we  will  live  in  full  accord 
with  the  principles  of  truth  and  walk  in  righteousness  before  the 
Lord.  How  can  we  receive  his  Spirit  otherwise?  I  can  see  the  sig- 
nificance in  the  commandment  the  Lord  has  given  us  to  assemble  fre- 
quently and  partake  of  these  emblems  in  commemoration  of  his  death. 
It  is  our  duty  to  assemble  and  renew  our  covenants  and  take  upon  us 
fresh  obligations  to  serve  the  Lord  and  keep  his  sayings  of  which 
we  have  heard  so  much  during  this  conference.  How  can  a  man  go 
forth  after  making  such  covenants  and  cheat  his  neighbor?  or  rob 
the  Lord?  or  violate  any  other  commandment  and  refuse  to  walk  in 
the  light  of  truth?  I  am  sure  if  we  could  picture  before  us — as  I  have 
tried  many  times  to  do — the  solemn  occasion  when  the  Savior  met 
with  his  apostles ;  if  we  could  see  them  there  assembled,  the  Lord  in 
his  sadness,  sorrowing  for  the  sins  of  the  world,  sorrowing  for  one 
of  his  apostles1  who  was  to  betray  him,  yet  teaching  these  eleven  men 
who  loved  him  and  making  covenant  with  them,  I  am  sure  we  would 
feel  in  our  hearts  that  we  would  never  forsake  him.  If  we  could  see 
them  there  assembled  and  could  realize  the  weight  of  the  burden 
which  was  upon  our  Lord;  and  after  their  supper  and  the  singing  of 
an  hymn,  their  going  forth,  the  Lord  to  be  betrayed,  mocked  and 
scorned,  the  disciples  to  forsake  him  in  the  deepest  hour  of  his  trial — 
if  we  could  understand  all  this,  feebly  though  it  be,  and  feebly  it  must 
be,  I  am  sure,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  would  forever  more  want 
to  walk  in  the  light  of  truth.  If  we  could  see  the  Savior  of  men 
suffering  in  the  garden  and  upon  the  cross  and  could  fully  realize 
all  that  it  meant  to  us,  we  would  desire  to  keep  his  commandments  and 
we  would  love  the  Lord  our  God  with  all  our  heart,  with  all  our  might, 
mind  and  strength,  and  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  would  serve  him. 

That  we  may  have  the  desire  to  do  this  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  would  appreciate  it  if  each  of  the  brethren  whose  names 
I  will  read,  would  leave  word  at  the  Bureau  of  Information,  if  they  are 
here;  because  I  do  not  like  to  call  on  them  if  they  are  not  here. 

We  have  been  in  the  habit  of  hearing  from  our  United  States 
mission  presidents,  nearly  always  at  these  conferences,  but  we  have 
neglected  Brothers  Andrew  Johnson,  J.  A.  Cahoon,  Samuel  Martin, 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Charles  H.  Hyde,  J.  Howard  Jenkins,  Lorenzo  W.  Anderson,  Joseph 
L.  Peterson,  and  Alma  G.  Burton.  Some  of  these  brethren  have  been 
home  nearly  a  year. 

If  Brother  Hyde  is  here  now  we  would  like  to  hear  from  him. 
If  the  other  brethren  whose  names  I  have  mentioned,  who  have  been 
here  for  six  months  or  more,  will  send  in  their  names  we  would  like  to 
hear  from  some  of  them — briefly,  of  course. 

As  I  said  six  months  agoy  I  say  today:  I  really  feel  in  my  heart 
that  we  ought  to  have  at  least  three  days  of  conference  and  one  meeting 
in  addition.  We  cannot  seem  to  get  through  and  hear  from  as  many 
people  as  we  would  like  to  hear  from. 

ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HYDE 

Former  President  of  the  Australian  Mission 

I  am  delighted  to  have  the  opportunity  of  being  able  to  represent  the 
Australian  Mission.  I  have  labored  among  the  people  of  that  island- 
continent  for  something  over  seven  years  in  all,  having  performed  two 
missions  among  them. 

I  was  delighted  with  the  remarks  of  Elder  Rey  L.  Pratt  yesterday 
concerning  the  Book  of  Mormon.  We  have  endeavored  in  Australia 
to  present  that  book  to  the  people,  and  I  believe  that  we  were  highly 
successful  in  the  effort.  A  great  many  books  were  placed  in  the  homes 
of  the  people  of  that  land,  especially  during  1927.  We  endeavored  to 
makq  it  a  memorial  year.  The  elders  caught  the  spirit  of  it  and  did 
a  splendid  work  in  presenting  that  book  to  the  people.  We  gained 
an  additional  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  book  through  our  efforts. 
I  would  like  to  say,  too,  that  we  gained  a  wonderful  physical  testimony 
of  the  divinity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon;  in  journeying  from  San  Fran- 
cisco to  Sydney,  Australia,  in  coming  in  contact  with  the  people  of 
the  Hawaiian  islands  and  the  Samoan  islands,  and  learning  something 
of  them  and  their  present  conditions ;  and  then  coming  in  contact  with 
the  more  western  peoples  of  the  Fiji  islands  and  the  Solomon  islands, 
and  especially  with  the  aborigines  of  Australia.  Wje  realize  the  marked 
differences  between  the  Polynesian  races  and  those  more  western 
peoples,  and  we  recognize  in  the  Polynesians,  Israelites,  the  children 
of  God.  They  are  responsive  to  the  teachings  of  the  gospel  and  to  all 
civilizing  and  educational  influences,  while  those  of  the  more  western 
tribes  are  not  nearly  so  susceptible  and  have  been  long  removed  from 
any  contact  with 'gospel  influences. 

Among  the  people  of  Australia,  those  who  have  settled  there  in 
the  last  one  hundred  years,  we  find  a  splendid  type  of  people,  many 
of  them  responsive  to  the  teachings  of  the  gospel;  and  they  long  to 
hear  the  testimonies  of  the  servants  of  the  Lord.  However,  we  are 
handicapped,  as  many  of  the  other  missions  are,  through  the  lack  of 
elders.  There  are  but  thirty-two  elders  now  laboring  in  Australia, 
endeavoring  to  reach  something  over  seven  millions  of  people  scattered 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HYDE 


65 


over  an  area  of  country  nearly  as  large  as  the  United  States.  Of  course 
these  people  are  congregated  in  a  great  measure  in  the  larger  cities  of 
Australia,  which  makes  them  to  some  degree  more  easily  reached. 
But  we  find  that  the  people  living  in  the  country  districts  are  more 
susceptible  to  gospel  influences  and  more  ready  to  listen  to  the  elders, 
and  they  are  harder  to  reach  because  of  the  long  distances  the  elders 
have  to  travel. 

However,  there  is  a  growth  among  that  people  numerically  as 
well  as  spiritually.  With  the  new  members  and  the  natural  growth  of 
the  Church  we  are  able  to  just  keep  ahead  of  the  number  who  die  and 
those  who  drop  out  of  the  faith.  Our  numbers  increase  a  little  each 
year. 

The  people  there  are  very  faithful  in  the  payment  of  their  tithing. 
The  per  capita  tithing  reaches  a  very  high,  figure,  and  we  are  glad  to 
see  the  manifestations  of  the  faith  of  those  who  have  identified  them- 
selves with  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

It  is  a  very  good  mission  to  work  in.  It  has  many  advantages 
of  an  educational  nature  that  our  young  men  would  be  pleased  to  enjoy 
if  they  really  understood  the  conditions  in  that  land.  The  people  of 
Australia  are  an  educated  people.  Many  of  the  children  ten  or  twelve 
years  old  among  that  people  read  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  our  classes 
just  as  readily  as  do  our  elders.  They  have  a  splendid  school  system 
and)  all  things  that  tend  towards  the  growth  and  development  of  that 
good  people. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimonies  that  the  Lord  has  blessed  me  with, 
for  his  sustaining  power  and  influence  while  engaged  in  that  missionary 
work.  I  testify  that  the  Lord  is  with  the  elders,  the  power  of  the 
priesthood  is  manifested  among  them,  they  enjoy  the  spirit  of  their 
calling  in  rich  measure,  and  they  return  home  blessed  and  favored  of 
the  Lord  because  of 'their  faithful  efforts. 

May  the  Lord  add  his  blessings  to  us  and  to  the  good  people  in 
that  far-off  land,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

"How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the  Lord, 
Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  His  excellent  word ! 
What  more  can  He  say  than  to  you  He  hath  said, 
You  who  unto  Jesus  for  refuge  have  fled  ?" 

The  grand  old  hymn  loses  none  of  its  inspiration  with  time.  It 
is  well  to  consider  what  the  Lord  hath  said  and  to  act  in  accordance 
therewith.  The  tenor  of  the  instruction  thus  far  given  in  the  present 
conference  has  been  this:  Keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord!  A 
grand  summation  indeed ;  and  if  that  admonition  were  followed  in 
spirit  and  by  effort  there  would  be  little  need,  as  has  been  suggested,  of 
dealing  with  particular  and  specific  commandments. 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


AGENCY  AND  COMMANDMENTS 

We  boast  much  of  our  freedom  and  agency,  and  I  find  some  who 
seem  to  have  difficulty  in  reconciling  the  thoughts  of  freedom  and 
individual  agency  on  the  one  hand  with  the  fact  that  we  are  living  under 
commandment  on  the  other  hand. 

In  the  scripture  already  quoted  to  you  the  purpose  of  placing  man 
upon  the  earth  has  been  declared :  "And  we  will  prove  them  herewith, 
to  see  if  they  will  do  whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God  shall  command 
them."  A  plainer  or  more  comprehensive  statement  than  that  of  the 
Lord's  purpose  could  scarcely  be  conceived — to  see  whether  we  shall 
do  whatsoever  the  Lord  shall  command  us — because  our  agency  enables 
us  to  do  or  to  refrain  from  so  doing,  for  the  Lord  will  not  compel. 

This  life  is  ofttimes,  and  very  properly,  referred  to  as  a  probation. 
"And  we  will  prove  them"  the  Lord  says,  putting  us  upon  test,  to  see 
whether  we  will  exercise  our  agency  in  choosing  to  do  whatsoever  the 
Lord  our  God  requires  of  us.  The  Lord  wants  to  know  about  that. 
Perhaps  His  foreknowledge  shows  the  result  to  Him,  but  it  is  necessary 
that  we  demonstrate  it.  There  is  much  work  ahead  of  us,  and  the 
Lord  desires  to  know  whom  He  can  trust  with  authority  and  power 
beyond  the  grave,  so  this  probationary  period  has  been  provided  that 
we  may  prove  and  demonstrate  beyond  all  question  as  to  whether  we  can 
be  trusted,  as  to  whether  we  shall  be  entitled  to  the  welcome:  Well 
done ;  you  have  been  faithful  over  what  may  have  seemed  to  be  a  few 
things,  and  perhaps  relatively  small  things,  but  you  have  been  proved 
and  you  have  shown  that  you  can  be  trusted  with  many  and  greater 
things. 

REVELATION  ON  FUNDAMENTALS 

In  the  early  days  of  the  Church,  indeed  before  the  Church  was 
organized  as  a  body  corporate  among  men,  the  Lord  gave  revelation 
after  revelation,  specific  and  of  profound  importance.  That  revealment 
was  the  foundation,  and  how  firm  a  foundation  it  is !  I  should  be  very 
much  surprised  if  the  Lord  were  revealing  today  the  same  funda- 
mental principles,  for  they  have  already  been  revealed,  and  under  His 
command  they  have  been  recorded ;  they  form  the  constitution  of  the 
Church.  Revelation  is  coming  from  Him  day  by  day  through  inspira- 
tion to  His  servants,  and  we  should  note  the  trend  of  that  inspiration 
and  the  particular  principles  that  are  emphasized  from  time  to  time. 
Are  we  today  hearers  of  that  word  alone,  or  doers  of  it  ?  You  Bishops 
of  Wards,  Presidents  of  Stakes,  members  of  the  Church,  will  you 
simply  remember  that  something  was  said  at  this  conference,  or  will 
you  go  hence  to  carry  into  effect  in  your  several  fields  what  has  been 
presented  and  what  shall  yet  be  presented  unto  you  as  requiring  especial 
attention?  We  are  not  looking  for  something  new  in  the  sense  of  that 
that  has  never  before  been  given  to  this  people,  but  we  are  looking  to 
see  the  way  the  Spirit  is  pointing  as  to  those  particular  duties  that  are 
most  especially  important'  to  us  at  this  period. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


OBEDIENCE  A  FORM  OF  ENERGY 

There  is  a  profound  principle  embodied  in  that  admonition  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  Have  you  ever  thought  of  the  fact 
that  there  is  a  power,  an  actual  force,  a  definite  form  of  energy,  in 
obedience?  That  energy  is  just  as  real  as  the  force  that  is  giving  light 
to  these  lamps  serving  in  the  hours  of  darkness  to  illuminate  this  great 
auditorium  for  us.  I  think  we  shall  yet  come  to  recognize  the  force, 
the  power,  the  energy,  that  lies  in  obedience.  We  have  many  demon- 
strations of  it. 

I  have  been  impressed  with  the  fact  that  the  scientific  spirit,  as 
man  calls  it,  is  manifest  in  the  organization  of  this  Church  and  in  its 
operation.  It  is  only  through  obedience  to  what  we  call  the  forces  of 
nature,  the  laws  of  energy,  that  we  are  able  to  make  them  serve  our 
purposes.  We  would  have  none  of  these  lights  unless  we  obeyed 
strictly,  with  full  purpose  of  heart,  the  laws  of  electricity. 

Yesterday  morning  between  nine  and  ten  o'clock  Mountain  Time, 
we  heard  in  this  city  the  very  voice  of  the  Premier  of  Great  Britain 
who  had  just  landed  at  the  port  of  New  York.  How  was  that  miracle 
made  possible  ?  Through  strict  obedience  to  the  laws  by  which  the  energy 
was  employed  and  then  applied  through  the  radio,  and  in  none  other 
way  would  the  marvel  have  been  wrought.  We  have  to  obey  the  laws 
of  light,  the  laws  of  mechanical  construction,  and  the  laws  of  chemistry 
if  we  would  operate  the  camera  successfully  and  get  good  pictures. 
That  time-piece  yonder  would  be  worth  nothing  had  not  the  laws 
of  mechanics  been  very  strictly  obeyed  in  its  construction.  It  is  only 
through  obedience  to  law  that  we  enjoy  blessings. 

A  MASTERLY  GENERALIZATION 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  as  is  common  with  the  prophets  of 
God,  went  beyond  the  inventors  and  discoverers  and  gave  to  us  in  a 
generalization — one  that  challenged  the  attention  of  thinkers  who  paid 
attention  to  it — one  that  embodied  the  solemn  truth  that  by  law  ir- 
revocably decreed,  not  for  this  earth  alone,  but  before  the  foundations 
of  the  earth,  it  is  ordained  that  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  it  is  by 
and  through  obedience  to  the  law  upon  which  that  blessing  is  predi- 
cated. Those  who  considered  this  said :  Well  of  course ;  we  knew  that 
before,  but  we  had  not  thought  of  it.  So  always  with  generalizations 
of  great  import.  All  of  them  are  wonderfully  simple,  but  it  has  been 
said,  and  with  propriety,  that  none  but  a  genius  or  a  prophet  can 
safely  generalize. 

What  of  the  leper  in  Syria  who  through  obedience  was  healed 
of  his  leprosy?  What  of  the  widow  who  went  to  Elisha,  that  man  of 
God,  when  she  was  in  great  distress,  and  by  compliance  with  and 
unquestioning  obedience  to  the  commands  he  gave  her,  she  and  her 
children  were  provided  for?  We  may  live  under  the  blessings  associated 
with  law,  if  we  will  obey. 


68  ' 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


man's  nature  to  obey 

There  appear  to  be  many  contradictions  in  human  nature.  Have 
you  ever  thought  of  the  fact  that  it  is  really  natural  to  man  not  only 
to  obey,  but  to  desire  to  obey  ?  Think  of  the  wealth  that  is  being  applied 
to  investigation  and  research  in  science,  and  what  is  the  great  purpose 
of  it  all  ?  Let  us  confine  ourselves  to  what  we  call,  artificially,  perhaps, 
physical  science.  Our  great  men  are  at  work  in  laboratories,  and  we 
think  it  nothing  now  to  expend  millions  upon  the  equipment  and 
maintenance  of  such  institutions.  Summed  up,  what  are  they  trying 
to  do?  To  discover  new  laws.  Not  to  create  them;  you  cannot  create 
laws  of  nature,  but  to  discover  new  laws.  For  what  purposes?  So 
that  they  can  put  themselves  in  subjection  to  those  laws,  to  obey  them. 
What?  To  be  subject  to  new  laws?  Yes,  because  there  are  blessings 
predicated  upon  each  of  those  laws,  and  men  want  those  blessings. 
Men  of  science  know  very  well  that  blessings  cannot  be  obtained  except 
through  obedience  to  the  corresponding  laws.  And  then  in  strange 
inconsistency  we  find  some  who  say  that  though  we  have  to  comply 
with  physical  law,  natural  law  as  we  call  it,  in  order  to  enjoy  the 
blessings  connected  therewith,  it  is  not  necessary  to  comply  with  laws 
relating  to  the  spiritual  activities  of  man. 

LAW  OF  THE  TITHE — AN  ILLUSTRATION 

The  law  of  tithing  has  been  referred  to  as  an  illustration.  But, 
brethren,  take  this  to  heart :  the  inspired  servants  of  the  Lord  tell  you 
at  this  conference  no  new  principle  connected  with  tithing,  but  they 
tell  you  it  is  necessary  that  you  give  your  attention  to  the  living  of 
that  law!  Take  that  home  with  you,  put  it  into  effect  in  your  stakes 
and  wards,  and  let  every  member  of  the  Church  take  it  home  with  him 
and  put  it  into  effect.  The  Lord  knows  why  he  has  inspired  His 
servants  to  say  that  unto  you  at  this  time ;  that  it  is  necessary  that  this 
people  shall  live  up  to  that  law.  If  there  were  time  I  would  like  to 
consider  with  you  that  sublime  principle  and  law.  Do  you  know  that 
the  soil  can  be  sanctified  by  the  tithing  of  its  products  ?  The  land  can  be 
sanctified.  There  is  a  relationship  between  the  elements  and  forces  of 
nature,  and  the  actions  of  men.  Did  not  the  Lord  sanctify  the  land  to 
Israel  of  old  as  long  as  His  covenant  people  lived  up  to  their  covenants  ? 
He  warned  them  of  what  would  come  if  they  forfeited  that  sanctifica- 
tion.  He  told  them  of  the  destruction  that  would  come  upon  them, 
and  it  came  because  they  chose  the  evil  alternative,  in  large  measure. 

We  should  be  sanctified,  our  homes  should  be  sanctified,  and  we 
can  attain  that  condition  in  part  by  living  up  to  that  portion  of  the 
law,  and  in  its  entirety  by  living  up  to  the  law  in  its  fulness.  Are  you 
feeding  your  children  tithed  food?  Are  they  wearing  tithed  clothing? 
We  are  to  be  tithed  people.  That  was  characteristic  of  the  covenant 
people  of  old.  It  will  be  so  ever.  The  law  of  tithing  will  abide,  though 
it  may  be  superseded  by  a  yet  higher  law  to  which  we  shall  learn  to 
subscribe. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


69 


REWARD  AND  PUNISHMENT — NATURAL  EFFECTS 

Again,  the  Lord  has  said  that  according  to  the  laws  we  obey  here 
shall  we  receive  from  Him.  We  speak  of  rewards  just  as  we  speak 
of  punishments.  But  rewards  and  punishments  will  come  through 
the  operation  of  law.  The  Lord  has  spoken  illustrating  that  great 
truth  by  reference  to  what  He  had  already  revealed  respecting  the 
kingdoms  or  orders  of  glory,  to  this  effect — If  a  man  cannot  or  will 
not  obey  celestial  laws,  that  is,  live  in  accordance  with  the  celestial 
requirements,  he  must  not  think  that  he  is  discriminated  against  when  he 
is  excluded  from  the  celestial  kingdom,  because  he  could  not  abide 
it,  he  could  not  live  there.  If  a  man  cannot  or  will  not  obey  the 
terrestrial  law  he  cannot  rationally  hope  for  a  place  in  the  terrestrial 
kingdom.  If  he  cannot  live  the  yet  lower  law — the  telestial  law — he 
cannot  abide  the  glory  of  a,  telestial  kingdom,  and  he  will  have  to  be 
assigned  therefore  to  a  kingdom  without  glory.  I  rejoice  in  the  con- 
sistency and  order  of  the  Lord's  plan  and  in  His  revelations  to  us. 

Let  us  go  forth  carrying  the  spirit  of  this  conference  into  effect, 
that  the  word  of  the  Lord  may  be  something  more  to  us  than  mere 
sound ;  and  so  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Wfe  rejoice  in  knowing  that  our  patriarch,  whose  health  is  such 
that  he  cannot  be  with  us,  is  resting  quietly  and  hearing  by  means 
of  the  radio  the  proceedings  of  this  conference.  It  is  a  source  of  a 
great  deal  of  regret  to  us  that  he  is  not  with  us. 

Brother  Smoot,  as  you  all  know,  is  actively  engaged  in  work  at 
Washington,  and  cannot  be  with  us.  He  is  laboring  with  all  his  might 
and  main,  and  I  regret  to  say  that  his  health  is  not  as  vigorous  as  it 
has  been  in  the  past.  The  great  burdens  resting  upon  him  are  telling 
very  strongly  upon  him  physically. 

Brother  Widtsoe  is  thoroughly  enjoying  his  labors,  and  is  ac- 
complishing a  fine  work  in  Great  Britain. 

I  have  received  a  very  grateful  expression  of  thanks  for  the 
amplifying  sets  that  have  been  arranged  to  accommodate  those  who  are 
hard  of  hearing.    They  appreciate  them  very  much. 

My  attention  has  been  called  to  the  fact  that  I  did  not  mention 
Brother  John  P.  Lillywhite  as  one  of  the  returned  mission  presidents 
from  whom  we  have  not  yet  heard.  Brother  Lillywhite  and  his  good 
wife  'are  here  with  us.  The  reason  I  did  not  mention  him  is  that  we 
have  not  yet  had  time  to  neglect  him,  as  he  has  been  home  but  a  few  days 

The  congregation  sang  "Redeemer  of  Israel,"  and  the  benediction 
was  pronounced  by  Elder  A.  Richard  Peterson,  President  of  the  Emery 
Stake. 

Conference  was  adjourned  until  2.00  p.  m. 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 

At  2  o'clock  p.  m.  the  Conference  reconvened,  with  President  Heber 
J.  Grant  presiding. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "High  on  the  Mountain  Top." 

Elder  Alfred  L.  Hanks,  President  of  the  Tooele  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 

The  hymn,  "Guide  us,  O  thou  great  Jehovah,"  was  sung  by  the 
congregation. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.RICHARDS 

I  feel  very  humble  and  very  weak  in  approaching  this  duty,  not 
because  I  have  not  thought  and  studied  and  prepared  for  it.  I  presume 
that  we  are  all  apprehensive  on  occasions  such  as  this,  lest  we  might  not 
profitably  occupy  the  time  of  the  saints  and  speak  those  things  which 
are  in  consonance  with  the  wisdom  of  our  brethren  and  the  Spirit  of 
God.  I  can  think  of  no  other  reasons  which  give  rise  to  the  fears  and 
the  trepidation  which  hold  one  as  he  stands  in  this  great  presence.  I 
have  prayed  that  my  words  and  my  thoughts  might  be  in  harmony  and 
ring  true  with  the  great  messages  which  have  been  delivered  during  this 
conference. 

IN  THE  LANGUAGE  OF  YOUTH 

I  have  been  hoping  that  the  Church  may  interpret  the  gospel  in 
the  language  of  youth.  I  am  certain  that  if  boys  and  girls  can  under- 
stand its  glorious  message  they  will  respond.  Religion  has  always  seemed 
more  or  less  formidable  to  youth.  I  think  that  is  in  part  because  its 
inhibitions  and  its  "don'ts"  have  been  emphasized  rather  than 
its  persuasions  and  its  happiness.  The  representative  of  religion  has 
usually  been  characterized  as  a  somber  joy-killing  person  without  much 
of  human  understanding  and  human  sympathy.  I  would,  if  I  could, 
change  this  erroneous  conception,  indulged  by  youth,  and  substitute  the 
glorious  conceptions  of  abundant  life  and  living  given  to  us  by  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ. 

Youth  should  understand  that  the  spirit  is  the  life  of  man,  and 
the  body  is  its  tabernacle ;  that  the  tabernacle  cannot  be  polluted  or 
defiled  without  injuring  the  spirit,  and  that  the  spirit  will  grow  and 
develop  only  as  the  house  in  which  it  dwells  provides  an  atmosphere  of 
purity  and  beauty.  Youth  admires  strength  and  power.  They  must 
learn  that  the  real  strength  is  the  strength  of  being  clean. 

LIBERTY  AND  SAFETY  THROUGH  OBEDIENCE 

Youth  should  know  that  obedience  is  not  bondage,  but  liberty — 
liberty  under  law;  that  the  only  real  freedom  is  the  freedom  from  our 
weaknesses  :  from  the  vices,  the  remorse  of  conscience,  and  the  infraction 
of  law.  When  youth  understands  that  the  bending  of  the  will  in  obe- 
dience tends  to  liberty  and  joy,  then  lawlessness,  disrespect  and  irrever- 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


71 


ence  will  wane.  I  wish  that  youth  could  realize  that  the  only  death  to 
be  feared  is  the  death  that  is  the  wages  of  sin,  and  that  the  gospel 
program  of  living  is  insurance  against  that  dreadful  calamity ;  that  the 
commandments  of  God,  both  the  "shalts"  and  the  "shalt  nots,"  and  the 
warnings,  reproofs  and  admonitions  of  God's  servants,  are  all  kindly 
calculated  to  hedge  round  the  precious  age  of  youth  with  safe-guards 
which  shall  protect  its  course  until  the  age  of  wisdom  and  judgment 
shall  be  reached. 

I  know  that  it  is  difficult,  but  I  wish  that  everyone  who  reproves 
youth  could  "show  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of  love  toward  him 
whom  he  hath  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  him  to  be  his  enemy."  I  know 
of  nothing  in  scripture  that  evinces  a  nicer  understanding  of  human 
nature  than  does  this  splendid  admonition  given  of  God,  so  delicately 
put. 

MANIFESTATIONS  OF  GOD's  TRUTH 

While  I  recognize  the  necessity  of  the  prohibitions  and  injunctions 
of  the  gospel,  all  to  be  interpreted  for  the  blessing  of  man,  it  seems 
to  me  that  I  would  lay  my  major  stress  for  youth  on  the  positive,  con- 
structive, inviting  concepts  of  truth  which  enlarge  the  vision  and  hold 
forth  those  exalted  hopes,  stations  and  glory  which  attract  the  soul  of 
man  as  the  marvelous  magnet  of  the  sun  attracts  the  planets  of  the  uni- 
verse. ;       i  ■ 

Youth  should  understand  that  all  the  beauties  of  nature,  the  ma- 
jestic mountains,  the  hills  and  vales,  the  streams  crystal  clear,  the 
changing  seasons,  the  gorgeous  garb  of  earth,  the  peace  of  the  summer 
night,  the  thunderous  awful  beauty  of  the  storm,  are  all  but  manifesta- 
tions of  God;  that  the  unfoldment  of  science  is  but  a  revelation  of 
fragments  of  God's  truth,  and  that  the  searcher  for  facts,  when  he 
discovers  truth,  however  startling  it  may  seem  to  the  human  mind,  will 
never  find  anything,  if  it  is  real  truth,  which  is  not  compatible  with  the 
revelations  of  God  as  they  have  been  made  known  and  will  be  made 
known  to  his  prophets. 

TEACHERS  OF  UNDERSTANDING  AND  SYMPATHY 

I  am  sorry  that  youth  seems  to  be  so  much  disturbed  in  this  respect. 
I  am  sure  it  is  attributable  to  inadequate  instruction  in  the  fields  of  both 
science  and  religion.  Youth  sorely  needs  today  teachers  of  great, 
understanding  and  sympathy,  who  can  reconcile  apparent  conflicts  and 
enable  youth  to  hold  fast  to  God's  word  and  time-tested  principles,  while 
science,  through  experimentation  and  research,  unfolds  and  develops 
the  secrets  and  the  processes  of  nature.  I  have  long  been  persuaded 
that  no  teacher  will  ever  be  able  to  perform  this  high  service  for  youth 
unless  he  be  at  once  a  man  of  God  and  a  real  scientist,  a  man  who  under- 
stands and  believes  the  revelations  and  who  fully  appreciates  the  possi- 
bilities and  the  limitations  of  scientific  method.  It  may  seem  boastful  to 
say  it,  but  I  believe  that  such  teachers  are  more  apt  to  be  found  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  than  in  any  other  place  in  all 
this  wide  world. 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


A  PROPER  UNDERSTANDING  OF  RELIGIOUS  PRINCIPLES 

May  youth  recognize  that  all  true  morality  is  founded  on  religious 
principles ;  principles  that  have  been  tried  and  not  found  wanting ;  that 
old  things  are  not  to  be  despised  merely  because  they  are  old,  and  that  the 
Ten  Commandments  are  still  the  basis  of  Christian  virtue.  I  want 
them  to  know  that  the  scriptures  are  the  word  of  God  and  that  they  will 
discover  within  them  the  deepest  and  truest  philosophy,  the  most  inter- 
esting history,  the  most  vital  principles  to  human  life  and  welfare  and 
the  finest  literature  that  the  world  has  ever  known.  They  should 
understand  that  pure  recreation  is  not  sinful  and  not  inhibited  by  the 
Lord ;  that  play  is  necessary  as  work  is  necessary ;  that  both  play  and 
work  are  to  be  enjoyed;  that  service  is  the  pursuit  of  most  lasting  satis- 
faction ;  that  worship  is  the  recreation  of  the  soul. 

• 

COMPANIONSHIPS  THROUGH  GOSPEL  ASSOCIATION 

Would  that  youth  could  appreciate  in  full  measure  the  companion- 
ships of  gospel  association.  Would  that  they  could  realize  that  there  is 
no  such  life-mating  as  that  under  the  influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit  and  the 
power  of  the  priesthood ;  that  the  quorums  are  fraternities  where  men 
clasp  hands  in  bonds  that  are  stronger  than  the  bonds  of  death ;  that 
the  organizations  and  service  in  the  Church  bring  friendships  dearer 
and  more  lasting  than  even  life  itself ;  "that  God  is  a  Father ;  that  man 
is  a  brother ;  that  life  is  a  mission  and  not  a  career." 

THE  ATTITUDE  OF  THE  CHURCH  LEADERS  TOWARD  YOUTH 

I  have  earnestly  desired  that  youth  might  more  fully  understand  the 
leaders  of  the  Church  and  their  attitude  toward  them,  because  I  think 
they  feel  that  we  are  exacting,  that  we  do  not  understand  and  are 
therefore  not  sympathetic  with  their  environment  and  their  thinking. 
Perhaps  we  do  not  fully  understand  them.  I  want  them  to  know, 
however,  that  it  is  not  because  we  do  not  love  them  and  desire  their 
welfare.  I  would  like  to  assure  every  young  man  and  every  young 
woman  in  the  Church  of  God  that  they  have  no  warmer  and  truer  friend 
than  President  Heber  J.  Grant.  I  know  that  never  a  day  passes  that  he 
and  his  associates  in  the  leadership  of  the  Church  do  not  pray  for.  the 
youth  of  Zion,  and  that  there  are  no  lengths  to  which  they  would  not 
go  to  bless  them.  I  entreat  the  youth  to  give  to  their  leaders  and  their 
parents  their  confidence  and  their  trust.   These  are  their  best  friends. 

THE  SIGNIFICANCE  AND  BLESSING  OF  TEMPLES 

I  wish  that  youth  could  grasp  more  clearly  the  vital  significance 
and  transcendent  blessings  of  our  temples.  I  am  fearful  that  by  many 
the  temples  are  regarded  as  institutions  of  rather  formidable  mystery. 
I  wish  they  could  come  to  know  that  these  sacred  establishments  of  the 
Church  are  places  of  education  and  incomparable  blessing,  where  the  real 
meaning  of  life  is  made  clear  and  glorious. 

After  all,  to  understand  the  gospel  is  to  love  it.    I  am  so  enamoured 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


73 


of  its  glorious  conceptions  that  I  feel  sure  that  if  we  can  win  the 
affection  of  youth  for  its  joyous  principles,  their  salvation  will  be 
assured. 

THE  GLORIOUS  AGE  OF  YOUTH 

What  a  glorious  age  of  promise  youth  is,  when  life  is  in  the  bud 
and  early  blossom,  when  each  experience  is  fresh  with  curiosity  and 
adventure.  I  think  that  if  we  may  envy  anything  it  is  the  life  and  vitality 
of  youth.  I  would  not  rob  it  of  its  joy  and  its  sparkle.  I  would  only 
add  to  its  richness  by  securing  its  enjoyment  through  the  passing  years. 
I  know  that  a  real  appreciation  of  the  gospel  will  do  that.  Gospel 
truth  will  always  quicken  the  impulses  of  the  spirit,  and  the  spirit  is 
the  life  of  man.  It  unfolds  new  visions  as  knowledge  increases,  and 
these  new  visions  keep  life  ever  new ;  so,  in  the  gospel  life,  there  is  youth 
even  in  old  age. 

God  bless  youth  that  they  may  understand  truth  and  us,  and  God 
bless  us  that  we  may  understand  youth,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

CHARLES  H.  HART 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

We  have  been  fed  and  refreshed,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  by  the 
teachings  and  by  the  spirit  of  this  conference.  I  am  very  anxious, 
during  the  few  minutes  I  stand  before  you,  that  this  feast  may  be 
continued,  and  I  am  sure  that  it  will  only  be  by  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  that  this  shall  be  so. 

I  felt  quite  at  home  at  the  first  session  of  this  conference.  I  was 
reminded  of  our  Canadian  Mission  when  the  opening  prayer  was  given 
by  a  former  missionary  of  that  mission,  Elder  Thomas  W.  Richards, 
and  when  Elder  David  O.  McKay  spoke,  who  recently  toured  the 
Canadian  Mission.  I  can  assure  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  he 
gave  the  same  sort  of  powerful  sermons  all  through  our  mission,  as 
the  one  that  he  delivered  here  yesterday  forenoon.  From  Portland, 
Maine,  to  Windsor,  Ontario,  in  that  tour  of  two  thousand  five  hundred 
miles  that  we  made  in  about  fifteen  days,  holding  thirty-one  meetings, 
we  had  the  same  kind  of  spiritual  feast  as  we  received  yesterday  from 
him  and  also  from  others  of  the  brethren. 

Our  tour  took  us  through  Maine,  to  the  ancient  city  of  St.  Johr, 
New  Brunswick;  from  thence,  across  the  Bay  of  Fundy,  through 
the  land  of  Evangeline,  made  famous  by  Longfellow,  to  the  historic 
city  of  Halifax,  Nova  Scotia ;  from  thence  to  Amherst,  Nova  Scotia, 
Montreal,  Quebec ;  to  Burlington,  Vermont ;  to  Ottawa,  Toronto, 
Hamilton,  Brantford,  London,  Windsor  and  Chatham.  At  the  last 
named  city  we  had  the  opportunity  of  giving  our  service  over  the  radio, 
and  one  of  the  striking  features  of  that  service  was  the  invitation  to 
Brother  McKay  to  give  the  benediction.   Rather  short  notice  was  given, 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


but  we  had  the  unusual  joy  of  just  such  a  prayer  as  we  hear  from  the 
priesthood  here  at  home,  given  over  the  radio  in  that  land.  We  received 
very  good  reactions  from  that  meeting.  We  have  heard  a  number 
of  favorable  comments  from  those  who  were  "listening  in." 

Since  that  time  we  have  again  toured  the  mission,  giving  an 
interpretation  of  the  gospel  as  expressed  through  the  auxiliaries,  through 
the  great  Relief  Society  organization,  the  great  Sunday  School  organiza- 
tion, the  great  M.  I.  A.,  and  last,  but  not  least,  the  great  Primary 
Association.  The  Primary  Association  is  capable  of  doing  real  mis- 
sionary work,  as  it  reaches  the  parents  through  the  children. 

On  this  last  tour,  in  passing  through  the  state  capitol  of  Vermont, 
we  were  handed  a  pamphlet  with  a  picture  of  a  stone  erected  in  mem- 
ory of  Brigham  Young,  at  Whitingham,  Vermont,  the  birthplace  of 
Brigham  Young.  The  legend  on  the  stone  is :  "Brigham  Young  born  on 
this  spot  1801.  A  man  of  much  courage  and  superb  equipment." 
A  little  later  we  passed  through  Concord,  the  capital  of  New  Hamp- 
shire and  saw  the  statue  to  Daniel  Webster.  These  two  great  men 
were  born  in  close  proximity  of  time  and  of  territory,  and  we  had 
the  opportunity  that  evening  of  making  some  contrasts  between  them, 
particularly  in  reference  to  the  inspiration  to  the  Prophet  Brigham 
Young,  pertaining  to  the  redemption  and  settlement  of  this  western 
country,  and  the  purported  attitude  of  the  great  American  orator  upon 
that  same  subject;  and  that  exposition  was  favorably  received  by  the 
audience  of  people  from  New  Hampshire,  who  think  very  highly  of  the 
great  Daniel  Webster  who  is  voted,  at  least  by  Harvard,  as  being 
entitled  to  the  seventh  place  in  the  galaxy  of  the  great  orators  of  the 
world. 

We  had  some  unusual  experiences  along  the  line,  one  of  which 
was  the  holding  of  our  religious  services  immediately  following  a- 
wedding  ceremony  and  feast.  It  was  a  little  difficult,  for  the  moment, 
to  make  the  contact  and  transform  the  marriage  feast  into  a  service  of 
the  Lord,  but  with  our  "wedded  companionship  without  end,"  known 
to  us  but  not  known  to  the  priest  who  performed  the  ceremony  that 
night,  nor  to  many  of  the  people  who  listened  to  the  services,  we  were 
able  to  secure  a  hearing.  While  they  were  cool  to  start  with,  they 
soon  warmed  up  to  the  exposition  of  the  gospel  as  interpreted  by  these 
auxiliary  organizations. 

We  have  recently  had  the  privilege  of  being  refreshed  anew  by 
the  inspiration  which  comes  from  a  visit  to  Cumorah  and  the  Sacred 
Grove,  and  to  the  Joseph  Smith  Memorial  in  the  State  of  Vermont. 
There  is  a  spirit  about  those  places  as  there  is  about  the  revelations 
of  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  was  reminded  of  the 
lines  describing  Joseph  at  the  age  of  the  restitution,  given  by  Bishop 
Whitney  in  that  great  epic  of  his,  known  as  "Elias,  An  Epic  of  the 
Ages,"  and  which  I  am  persuaded  is  read  too  little  by  the  Latter-day 
Saints.    He  describes  Joseph  at  that  time  as : 

"Standing  but  fourteen  steps  upon  life's  stair, 
An  unlearned  boy,  thinker  of  thoughts  profound, 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


75 


Boy  and  yet  man,  dreamer  of  lofty  dreams. 

Not  solemn,  save  betimes,  when  hovered  near 

Some  winged  inspiration  from  far  worlds, 

Some  great  idea's  all-subduing  spell — 

His  heart  grew  humbler  then,  his  look  more  grave; 

Not  melancholy — mirthful,  loving  life, 

And  brimming  o'er  with  health  and  wholesome  glee. 

A  stalwart  spirit  in  a  sturdy  frame, 

Maturing  unto  future  mightiness." 

After  making  some  reference  in  the  poem  to  the  sort  of  deity 
which  Joseph  Smith  worshiped,  the  attributes  of  deity,  the  poem 
continues,  in  reference  to  Joseph : 

"And  pondering  the  apostolic  line, 

'Let  any  lacking  wisdom  ask, 

And  God  will  freely  give,  upbraiding  none,' 

He  puts  the  promise  to  the  utter  test." 

Then  the  poet  adds : 

"What  pen  can  paint  the  marvel  that  befell? 
What  tongue  the  wondrous  miracle  portray?" 

When  those  "two  heavenly  personages,  whose  beauty  and  glory 
defy  all  description,"  stood  before  Joseph  in  the  air,  and  one  of  them, 
addressing  the  boy,  pointing  to  the  other  said,  "This  is  My  beloved 
Son,  hear  him."  It  is  a  noteworthy  fact  that  as  the  years  go  by  the 
significance  of  the  information  that  was  received  by  Joseph  at  that 
time  from  the  Son,  the  Lord  and  Savior  of  the  world,  is  being  more 
confirmed  year  by  year.  An  examination  of  the  magazine  literature 
of  the  world,  in  the  last  few  years,  pointing  out  the  limitations  upon 
Protestant  denominations  and  in  fact  all  religious  sects,  will  indicate 
the  truth  of  what  Bishop  Whitney  told  us  yesterday  in  reference  to 
a  fragmentary  portion  of  the  gospel,  only,  residing  in  these  denominat- 
tions,  these  cults  and  these  isms. 

I  have  been  very  much  impressed  with  the  direct  testimony  in 
support  of  the  restoration  of  this  gospel,  but  I  have  been  more  impressed 
with  the  circumstantial  evidence  which  supports  the  restoration  and 
the  coming  forth  of  the  gospel,  the  re-statement  of  the  gospel  and  the 
restoration  of  the  holy  priesthood. 

The  first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  was  referred  to 
here  yesterday — a  perfect  piece  of  literature  as  a  preface  to  that  book. 
There  is  harmony  in  all  that 'came  through  Joseph.  Our  Judge  Rolapp, 
a  few  years  ago,  in  his  "Gospel  Quotations,"  made  a  compilation  of 
scriptures,  brought  together  the  scriptures  given  to  Joseph,  coming 
from  different  ages,  different  languages ;  and  lo  arid  behold,  when  they 
are  brought  together  they  dovetail  and  are  in  perfect  harmony,  a 
beautiful  exposition  of  the  gospel  as  restored  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith. 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  these  great  truths  which  have 
come  to  us,  the  spirit  of  these  great  revelations,  the  spirit  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon.    I  have  been  melted  many  times,  and  thrilled,  in  reading 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


some  of  those  simple  chapters  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I  was  pleased 
to  hear  Brother  Pratt  speak  of  his  experiences  in  recently  reading  anew 
many  times  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

It  is  my  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  am  grate- 
ful for  the  knowledge  I  have  that  God  lives;  that  he  answers  prayers; 
that  the  gospel,  by  his  power,  has  been  restored,  and  likewise  the 
priesthood;  and  that  we  are  enjoying  that  priesthood,  in  the  leadership 
that  we  have  in  the  Church  at  this  time,  as  we  also  enjoyed  it  in  former 
administrations  of  the  Church,  since  its  restoration  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  appreciate  and 
realize  all  the  blessings  which  have  come  unto  us,  is 'my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  MARTIN 

Former  President  of  the  South  African  Mission 

I  trust  that  I  may  be  sustained  this  afternoon  in  this  ordeal,  for 
I  assure  you  that  it  is  an  ordeal  to  realize  that  there  are  ten  thousand  eyes 
gazing  at  me  and  perhaps  double  that  number  who  are  listening  to  my 
utterances;  but  I  have  enjoyed  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  so  often  in  the 
mission  field  under  trying  conditions  that  I  feel  confident  I  shall  enjoy 
his  Spirit  while  I  endeavor  to  speak  to  you  this  afternoon. 

One  of  the  last  requests  made  of  me,  as  I  was  leaving  Cape-Town 
and  the  South  African  Mission  as  a  whole,  was  that  I  would  bring 
the  love  of  the  people  of  South  Africa  to  you  who  live  in  Zion.  There 
are  many  still  living  who  remember  the  elders  who  first  went  to  that 
land  to  preach  the  gospel  of  the  restoration  in  1853.  And  again,  there 
are  many,  among  whom  I  had  the  privilege  of  laboring,  who  feel  to  ex- 
tend to  you  their  love  and  gratitude  for  the  elders  who  returned  again  in 
1903,  after  forty  years  absence,  to  bring  the  gospel  to  that  far-off  land. 
In  1853  the  South  African  Mission  was  limited — the  elders  bore  their 
testimony  to  those  only  who  lived  in  the  British  possessions.  Cape 
Colony  and  Natal.  When  they  returned  in  1903,  the  mission  had  in- 
creased more  than  double.  Instead  of  including  only  about  three  or 
four  hundred  thousand  square  miles  of  territory,  it  had  been  increased 
to  over  a  million  square  miles,  owing  to  the  fact  that  in  1890  Great 
Britain  decided  to  take  over  that  large  native  territory  known  today 
as  Southern  and  Northern  Rhodesia,  which  embraces  over  four  hundred 
thousand  square  miles,  all  native  territory,  and  then  since  the  war  that 
of  German  Southwest  Africa.  This  added  territory  has  made  it  im- 
perative that  the  elders  who  go  to  that  far-off  land  be  sent  out  two 
by  two  to  only  the  large  cities  within  the  union. 

The  great  cry  of  South  Africa  today  is :  "Send  us  missionaries." 
Since  Southern  and  Northern  Rhodesia  have  been  under  the  control 
of  the  British  government,  thousands  of  white  settlers  are  going  to  that 
country  and  are  establishing  beautiful  cities,  very  much  after  the  plan  of 
the  cities  we  have  in  the  west.    They  need  at  this  time  the  missionary 


ELDER  SAMUEL  MARTIN 


77 


pioneer,  that  as  the  population  increases  the  gospel  knowledge  might 
grow  with  them ;  therefore,  the  cry  in  South  Africa  is  from  the  people 
themselves:    "Send  us  missionaries.". 

You  may  perhaps  know  that  the  missionaries  do  not  go  to  the 
colored  or  native  races.  The  native  races  have  besought  the  elders 
that  they  would  go  and  teach  them  the  gospel  and  that  they  would 
allow  them  to  translate  our  tracts  into  the  native  language.  They  have 
offered  to  have  congregations  amounting  to  the  thousands  if  the  elders 
would  only  go  and  speak  to  them,  but  that  time  has  not  yet  arrived. 
The  number  of  missionaries  that  the  General  Authorities  have  been 
able  to  send  has  precluded  us  from  sending  the  missionaries  even  into 
many  of  the  cities  where  the  white  people  dwell.  There  are  towns  of 
ten,  fifteen  and  twenty  thousand  people  who  have  had  no  elders  sta- 
tioned with  them. 

It  was  very  pleasing  to  me,  when  I  returned  to  South  Africa 
after  nearly  eleven  years,  to  find  people  who  were  pleased  to  see  me 
again.  Nearly  twenty-five  years  ago  I  had  the  privilege  of  hearing 
the  gospel  message  for  the  first  time  in  that  land,  and  I  believe  was 
the  first  convert  to  the  Church  through  the  efforts  of  the  elders  who 
came  out  in  1903.  Some  of  those  who  knew  me  in  business,  political, 
and  social  life,  asked  the  question:  "Has  Martin  gone  mad?  Is  he 
attending  to  his  business?  How  and  why  on  earth  could  he  allow 
himself  to  be  overcome  by  those  Mormon  elders?"  But  when  I 
returned  this  time  and  I  met  some  of  the  same  people  who  are  holding 
high  government  positions,  men  of  social  position,  and  of  the  press.  They 
said:  "Have  yon  really  come  back  to  South  Africa?  Surely  you  will 
never  leave  us  again?"  And  the  press  requested  me  to  write  and  tell 
them  of  my  experiences  here  among  this  wonderful  people.  They  gave 
me  freedom  to  write  all  that  I  desired,  and  from  that  time  on  I  can 
assure  you  with  truthfulness  I  never  again  saw  in  the  press  during 
my  presidency  of  the  South  African  Mission  an  article  in  adverse 
criticism  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Prejudice 
is  breaking  down.  The  people  as  a  whole  are  ready  and  willing  to 
listen.  The  elders  who  come  out  are  men  of  splendid  character  as  a 
whole,  many  of  them  earnest  in  their  endeavor  to  preach  the  gospel. 
They  are  able  to  take  rebuke  and  slander  without  retaliation.  The  only 
difficulty  we  have  found  does  not  exist  with  the  common  people  gener- 
ally but  with  those  who  are  supposed  to  be  teachers  of  truth  and 
light.  It  often  seemed  very  strange  to  me  that  men  who  professed  to 
be  teachers  of  the  doctrine  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  were  not  able 
to  discern  the  difference  between  his  teachings  and  their  treatment  to 
the  elders;  the  love,  tolerance,  patience,  and  gentleness  which  he 
taught,  compared  with  that  which  they  were  pleased  to  give  in  exchange 
for  his  teachings  to  the  elders  of  this  Church.  It  seemed  to  me  that 
the  pastors  were  unable  to  discern  the  difference  between  a  lamb  and 
a  wolf,  for  charity  is  often  absolutely  lacking.  Therefore,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  I  come  to  you  with  an  appeal — Do  not  withhold  your  sons 
if  you  can  possibly  arrange  for  them  to  fill  missions.    The  Lord  will 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


open  the  way.    He  will  bless  those  who  go  into  the  mission  field. 

Let  me  tell  you  the  experience  I  had  prior  to  gathering  to  Zion 
many  years  ago.  There  was  a  young  elder  who  came  out  from  Idaho, 
I  believe  it  was  Paris  or  Bloomington.  He  landed  in  South  Africa  in 
a  state  of  collapse  through  typhoid  fever.  He  was  taken  to  the 
hospital,  and  when  he  became  convalescent  the  government  was  about  to 
send  him  back,  owing  to  the  fact  that  he  had  only  two  pounds  ten 
shillings  ($12.50)  with  which  to  sustain  himself  in  the  South  African 
Mission.  I  had  the  privilege,  as  a  business  man  at  that  time,  to  go 
before  the  government  and  stand  security,  giving  a  guarantee  that 
he  should  never  be  a  charge  to  the  country ;  and  the  Lord  blessed  me 
and  gave  me  confidence  in  his  work,  and  with  the  kind  cooperation  of 
my  little  wife,  from  the  day  he  came  out  of  the  hospital  until  the  day 
he  left  South  Africa,  we  fed  him.  I  don't  say  that  to  receive  your 
praise,  but  I  do  say  this  that  I  am  only  a  humble  man  and  if  God  would 
induce  me  to  sustain  a  humble  elder  who  came  into  the  world  to  preach 
the  gospel,  he  will  do  it  for  your  son  if  occasion  requires  it. 

I  want  to  make  one  other  expression  before  I  sit  down.  I  want 
to  appeal  to  you  parents  to  stress  particularly  the  importance  of  your 
sons  and  daughters  reading,  studying  and  marking  the  wondrous 
blessings  which  are  given  to  them  by  the  servants  of  the  Lord,  par- 
ticularly their  patriarchal  blessings.  I  can  say  to  you  with  great 
humbleness  and  sincerity  that  many  times  when  I  have  seen  things 
requiring  great  care  and  good  judgment  in  the  mission  field,  I  have 
gone  alone  and  read  over  the  blessing  given  to  me  by  our  beloved  pres- 
dent,  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  and  at  times  I  saw  the  wondrous  guidance 
of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  harmony  with  the  blessings  he  pronounced 
upon  my  head,  as  a  humble  servant  of  the  Lord  called  to  preside  over 
a  branch  of  His  kingdom.  I  often  felt  very  weak,  but  at  times 
I  could  feel  the  presence  and  hear  the  very  voice  of  the  Lord  direct- 
ing me.  And  frequently,  after  I  had  given  instructions  to  the  elders, 
when  the  mail  reached  me  from  headquarters  the  very  instruction 
which  they  were  advising  me  to  give  had  already  been  given,  showing 
that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  permeates  his  servants  and  guides  and 
directs  them  in  all  their  undertakings. 

•  I  pray  humbly  that  the  Lord  will  help  us  to  appreciate  and  value 
the  words  which  his  servants  pronounce  upon  our  heads,  for  I  can  assure 
you  from  very  strong  testimony  that  I  have  felt  their  power,  their  influ- 
ence, and  their  guidance,  in  my  life.  I  pray  that  God  will  bless  you  and 
open  your  hearts  and  guide  you  that  you  may  not  think  too  much  of 
wealth  for  self,  but  of  the  thousands  who  are  out  in  the  word  not  enjoy- 
ing what  you  have  today — a  knowledge  of  the  glorious  truths  of  the 
restoration  of  the  gospel,  for  which  I  am  grateful.  I  am  humbly 
grateful  that  I  with  four  others  of  my  family  should  be  counted  worthy 
to  go  out  into  the  world  to  preach  this  wonderful  message.  I  pray 
that  the  Lord  will  bless  us  each  to  feel  dissatisfied  until  we  all  have 
done  our  duty  in  that  respect. 

May  God  bless  you,  Amen. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


79 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

America's  chief  need — religion 

Is  this  nation,  though  it  is  the  strongest,  richest  country  in  the 
world,  headed  for  destruction?  It  is,  say  good  authorities,  unless  the 
growing  disrespect  for  law  is  stopped. 

"Growing  disrespect  for  law,"  says  James  W.  Good,  Secretary 
of  War  for  the  United  States,  "unless  it  is  stopped,  will  end  in  our 
destruction." 

WHAT   IS  WRONG    WITH  AMERICA? 

A  volume  that  was  on  the  reading  course  of  the  M.  I.  A.  last  year 
bears  the  title,  "What  Ails  Our  Youth?"  In  the  light  of  what  the 
Secretary  of  W!ar  has  said,  it  may  be  appropriate  to  ask  also,  "What 
ails  our  country?" 

"Train  up  a  child  in  the  way  he  should  go,  and,  when  he  is  old  he 
will  not  depart  from  it."  So  says  Solomon  in  Proverbs  22 :6.  It 
may  be  that  the  citizens  of  the  United  States  were  not,  in  the  days 
of  their  youth,  trained  up  in  the  way  they  should  go ;  or  that  the 
young  folks  in  our  country  today  are  not  being  well  trained  ;  for  it  is 
a  leading  educator,  George  A.  Coe,  a  professor  at  Columbia  University, 
who  has  written  a  book  with  the  title,  "What  Ails  Our  Youth  ?" 

The  Washington  Post  of  March  9  devotes  a  whole  page  in  large 
type  to  the  following: 

"TO  THE  YOUTH  OF  WASHINGTON" 

"Where  will  you  be  five  years  from  now? 

"What  will  be  your  mental  outlook  on  life  at  that  time?  What  your  associates? 
What  will  be  your  physical  and  financial  status?  What  your  religious  and 
mental  standards? 

"It  is  sure  that  what  you  are  doing  now  will  point  almost  exactly  to  the 
answer  of  these  questions. 

"Few  men  or  women  are  able  to  make  sweeping  revisions  in  their  modes 
of  living  overnight. 

"Most  changes  come  in  a  gradual  way.  What  man  can  stop  a  hundred 
bad  habits  in  one  day  and  begin  a  hundred  good  ones  the  next? 

"It  isn't  done  that  way.  Life  is  a  constant  change,  with  everything  being 
done  by  easy  stages.  The  paths  you  are  treading  today  will  become  broader  and 
easier  to  follow,  no  matter  in  which  direction  they  are  leading. 

WHERE   WILL  YOU  BE? 

"Where  you  will  be  five  years  from  today  depends  upon  whether  you  are 
a  little  better  or  a  little  worse  tomorrow  or  a  month  from  today. 

"Try  to  elevate  yourself  a  little  each  day.  Save  a  little  money  each  week, 
deposit  it  carefully  or  invest  it  wisely,  and  you  will  be  surprised  at  the  growth 
in  five  years. 

"Spend  your  money  and  time  foolishly,  associate  with  wrong  companions,  and 
in  five  years  you  probably  will  be  a  liability  to  your  community  and  a  disgrace 
to  your  family. 

"Apply  this  test  to  the  things  you  want  to  do — 'If  I  continue  this  in- 
definitely, where  shall  I  be  in  five  years  ?'  " 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


This  stirring  appeal  to  the  youth  of  the  capital  of  the  nation  is 
signed  by  one  hundred  and  ninety-two  business  men  of  that  city. 
It  thus  appears  that  these  business  men  also  are  asking :  "What 
Ails  Our  Youth?"  And  may  I  ask:  "What  Ails  Our  Country?" 
Growing  disrespect  for  law,  our  Secretary  of  War  has  said,  is  leading 
us  to  destruction. 

PRISON  RECORDS  OF  CRIME 

The  records  of  a  reformatory  at  Pendleton,  Indiana,  may  throw 
light  on  what  ails  our  young  people.  During  twenty  years  they  have- 
received  in  that  institution  20,000  young  men  between  the  ages  of 
eighteen  and  twenty-five.  This  means  an  average  of  1,000  a  year. 
Of  these  20,000  young  men  in  that  reformatory  only  four  per  cent 
claimed  membership  in  any  church.  These  statistics  may  be  the  answer 
to  the  questions,  What  ails  our  youth?  and  What  ails  our  country? 

May  not  conditions  today  be  similar  to  those  prevailing  on  the 
30th  day  of  April,  1863?  Then  Abraham  Lincoln,  as  President  of  the 
United  States,  issued  a  proclamation  setting  apart  that  day  as  a  day  of 
fasting  and  prayer. 

THE  WISDOM  OF  LINCOLN 

These  were  his  words: 

"We  have  been  the  recipients  of  the  choicest  bounties  of  Heaven;  we  have 
been  preserved  these  many  years  in  peace  and  prosperity;  we  have  grown  in 
numbers,  wealth,  and  power  as  no  other  nation  has  ever  grown.  But  we  have 
forgotten  God. 

"We  have  forgotten  the  gracious  hand  which  preserved  us  in  peace  and 
multiplied  and  enriched  and  strengthened  us,  and  we  have  vainly  imagined,  in 
the  deceitfulness  of  our  own  hearts,  that  all  these  blessings  were  produced 
by  some  superior  wisdom  and  virtue  of  our  own.  Intoxicated  with  unbroken 
success,  we  have  become  too  self-sufficient  to  feel  the  necessity  of  redeeming 
and  preserving  grace,  too  proud  to  pray  to  the  God  that  made  us. 

OUR   GREATEST  NEED 

"It  behooves  us,  then,  to  humble  ourselves  before  the  offended  power,  to 
confess  our  national  sins,  and  to  pray  for  clemency  and  forgiveness." 

What  is  it  that  the  youth  of  our  country  needs,  that  the  people  of 
our  nation  must  have,  if  our  land  is  to  be  preserved  from  destruction  ? 
It  is  religion.  The  people  of  the  nation  must  follow  more  closely 
the  teachings  and  the  example  of  him  who  came  to  bring  "Peace  on 
earth,  good  will  to  men." 

Let  us  look  to  the  words  of  the  Master  himself  for  an  answer. 

MEN   MUST  HAVE  THE  NEW  BIRTH 

"There  was  a  man  of  the  Pharisees  named  Nicodemus,  a  ruler  of  the  Jews : 
"The  same  came  to  Jesus  by  night,  and  said  unto  him,  Rabbi,  we  know 

that  thou  art  a  teacher  come  from  God :  for  no  man  can  do  these  miracles 

that  thou  doest,  except  God  be  with  him. 

"Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  him,  Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  Except 

a  man  be  born  again,  he  cannot  see  the  kingdom  of  God. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


81 


"Nicodemus  saith  unto  him,  how  can  a  man  be  born  when  he  is  old?  *  *  * 
"Jesus  answered,  Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  except  a  man  be  born  of 
the  water  and  of  the  Spirit,  he  cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God.    *    *  * 
"Marvel  not  that  I  said  unto  thee,  Ye  must  be  born  again."  (John  3:1-7). 

THE  POWER  OF  PRAYER 

So  I  say,  this  is  the  advice,  this  the  counsel,  this  the  instruction, 
and  these  are  the  commands  for  the  citizens  of  our  country.  We  "must 
be  born  again" — born  "of  the  water  and  of  the  spirit."  The  one  thing 
needful  is  religion. 

Our  country  is  filled  with  men  who  are  rich,  with  men  who,  as  one 
well-known  author,  Roger  W.  Babson,  says,  ridicule  religion ;  but  he 
holds  that  these  men  are  indebted  for  all  the  riches  they  possess  to  the 
family  prayers  once  held  daily  in  the  homes  of  their  fathers. 

This  is  a  religious  country.  The  citizens  of  this  land  ought  to 
be  devout.  Our  forefathers  came  to  this  continent  primarily  in  order 
to  secure  religious  liberty.  The  motto  of  our  nation  is:  "In  God 
We  Trust." 

Is  there  any  one  that  dares  to  point  with  ridicule  at  Washington 
upon  his  knees  at  Valley  Forge?  Who  is  there,  enjoying  the  liberties 
of  this  free  country,  that  dares  to  ridicule  Benjamin  Franklin?  He 
said:  "I  have  lived,  sir,  a  long  time;  and  the  longer  I  live,  the  more 
convicing  proofs  I  see  of  this  truth,  that  God  governs  in  the  affairs 
of  men?"  Who  dares  point  with  ridicule  at  these  men,  the  idols  of  this 
land  of  liberty  ? 

THE  EXAMPLE  OF  OUR  LEADERS 

Washington,  Franklin,  Lincoln,  Joseph  Smith — each  of  these,  in 
times  of  dire  need  and  real  distress,  went  upon  his  knees  and  made 
appeal  to  Divine  Providence.  It  was  Franklin  who  said :  "In  the 
beginning  of  the  contest  with  Great  Britain,  when  we  were  sensible  to 
danger,  we  had  daily  prayer — for  divine  protection.  Our  prayers,  sir, 
were  heard ;  and  they  were  graciously  answered." 

It  is  religion,  it  is  the  guidance  which  comes  from  divine  providence, 
that  is  most  needed.  Our  Lord  and  Savior  said  to  his  nearest  friends, 
"Why  sleep  ye?  Rise  and  pray  lest  ye  enter  into  temptation"  (Luke 
22:46). 

"Pray  without  ceasing,"  the  Bible  tells  us  (Thes.  5:17).  "Watch 
and  Pray,"  the  Master  said  again,  "that  ye  enter  not  into  temptation. 
The  spirit  indeed  is  willing  but  the  flesh  is  weak"  (Matt.  26:41). 

"SEEK  YE  THE  LORD" 

To  pray  without  ceasing  is  the  practice  needed  by  the  youth  of 
this  country;  for  they  are,  in  these  days,  surrounded  on  every  hand 
with  pitfalls  and  unusual  temptations.  The  words  of  the  Master  ought 
to  be  kept  ringing  in  their  ears :  "Why  sleep  ye  ?  Rise  and  pray,  lest 
ye  enter  into  temptation." 

"Seek  ye  the  Lord,"  is  another  admonition  that  applies  also  to  the 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


people  of  these  days.  Those  whose  lives  are  well-nigh  completed, 
those  who  have  had  long  years  of  experience  and  know  with  certainty 
what  is  worth  while — these  are  the  ones  who  ought  to  call  out  to  the 
youth  of  today,  "Seek  ye  the  Lord  while  he  may  be  found."  Today 
is  the  accepted  time;  tomorrow  may  be  too  late.  O  youth  of  our 
country,  "Seek  ye  the  Lord  while  he  may  be  found.  Call  ye  upon  him 
while  he  is  near"  (Isa.  55:6).  This  is  the  doctrine  and  the  practice 
that  the  people  of  our  country  are  most  in  need  of  at  this  very  hour. 

NOT  FAITH  ALONE,  BUT  WORKS 

I  hope  I  shall  not  give  anyone  the  impression  that  we  favor 
bringing  up  a  generation  of  young  people  who  rely  on  faith  only.  We 
like  to  emphasize  the  words  of  the  Master:  "Not  everyone  that  saith 
unto  me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  but  he 
that  doeth  the  will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven"  (Matt.  7:21). 
That  we  believe  in  doing  as  well  as  in  saying,  in  works  as  well  as  in 
faith,  is  proved  even  by  the  chapels  we  have  built  in  the  Church. 
Most  of  the  chapels  have  recreation  halls  connected  with  them. 

As  real  Americans,  the  training  we  aim  to  give  our  young  people 
is  accurately  described  by  the  following  words  of  Theodore  Roosevelt : 
"Of  course  what  we  have  a  right  to  expect  from  the  American  boy  is 
that  he  shall  turn  out  to  be  a  good  American  man.  Now,  the  chances  are 
strong  that  he  won't  be  much  of  a  man  unless  he  is  a  good  deal  of  a 
boy.  He  must  not  be  a  coward  or  a  weakling,  a  bully  or  a  prig.  He 
must  work  hard  and  play  hard.  He  must  be  clean-minded  and  clean- 
lived,  able  to  hold  his  own  under  all  circumstances  and  against  all 
comers.  It  is  only  on  these  conditions  that  he  will  grow  into  the  kind 
of  man  of  whom  America  can  really  be  proud.  In  life,  as  in  a  football 
game,  the  principle  to  follow  is:  'Hit  the  line:  don't  foul;  don't  shirk. 
Hit  the  line  and  hit  it  hard.'  " 

CHIEF  AIM   OF  REAL  RELIGION 

While  praising  and  commending  this  strenuous  and  vigorous  life, 
we  impress  upon  our  young  folks  ever  to  bear  in  mind  these  words 
of  the  Master:  "Marvel  not  that  I  said  unto  thee,  Ye  must  be  born 
again."  What  does  this  mean  ?  That  we  must  be  touched  with  religion ; 
that  we  must  have  in  our  hearts  and  souls  the  satisfying  conviction  that 
comes  as  a  testimony  from  a  life  of  righteous  living. 

Our  chief  aim  in  religion  is  to  bring  up  a  generation  of  young 
people  who  have  character  and  honor.  Before  our  young  people  we  are 
constantly  holding  up  the  words  and  character  of  such  men  as  King 
Albert  of  Belgium,  whose  deeds  have  made  him  immortal.  His  reply 
to  the  repeated  German  appeals  for  permission  to  march  the  German 
army  through  his  country  was:  "I  cannot  do  so  in  honor."  Standing 
to  their  guns,  he  and  his  people  maintained  their  honor  "intact  and 
immortal." 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


83 


WE  SEEK  TO  UNDERSTAND  YOUTH 

It  is  works  like  these,  not  faith  alone,  which  we  are  struggling  to 
make  a  vital  part  in  the  lives  of  our  people.  To  them  we  often  repeat : 
"Take  ye  heed,  watch  and  pray"  (Matt.  13:33).  Ye  must  be  born 
again  of  the  spirit.  To  him  who  relies  upon  daily  prayer,  "Every 
day  is  a  fresh  beginning,  every  day  is  the  world  made  new"  (Susan 
Coolidge). 

Believing  purity  to  be  better  than  repentance,  we  teach  our  children 
to  pray,  to  place  their  trust  in  divine  providence.  We  do  our  utmost 
to  keep  them  from  sowing  wild  oats.  We  are  struggling  to  understand 
youth,  we  are  hoping  to  make  youth  understand  us.  The  stirring  appeal 
of  Stephen  L.  Richards  this  morning  for  a  better  understanding  of 
youth  indicates  how  earnestly  we  are  struggling  to  understand  the  young 
folks  and  to  keep  them  in  the  ways  of  truth. 

THE  WELL-BALANCED  LIFE 

We  believe  in  the  well-rounded  out,  the  well-balanced  education, 
of  both  mind  and  heart.  During  the  past  year  the  President  of  the 
Church  and  his  associates  appropriated  nearly  one  million  and  a  half 
dollars  for  educational  purposes.  If  you  knew  how  generously  money 
has  been  expended  to  train  our  youth,  to  teach  them  to  "pray  without 
ceasing;"  if  you  knew  that  the  Church  is  pressed  today  for  funds  be- 
cause of  the  great  expenditures  made  for  the  religious  training  of  your 
sons  and  daughters;  that  the  President  and  his  associates,  in  order  to 
give  our  young  folks  the  religious  training  which  the  nation  and  the 
youth  of  our  country  so  much  need,  have  established  eighty-two  sem- 
inaries and  maintained  many  church  schools — then,  I  feel  sure,  you 
faithful  members  would  come  forward  more  liberally  with  your  tithing. 
There  is  no  price  in  time,  in  effort,  or  in  money  that  you  cannot  afford 
to  pay,  if  by  so  doing  you  can  have  your  young  folks  so  taught  and 
trained  that  they  will  bring  to  you  and  to  your  family  honor  and  not 
dishonor,  credit  and  not  discredit. 

AIMS  OF  PRESIDENT  GRANT 

As  to  the  President  of  the  Church,  his  heart  is  noble,  generous. 
He  not  only  prays  daily  for  the  youth  of  the  Church,  but  he  has  made 
appropriations  for  their  welfare  more  liberally  than  is  justified  by  the 
amount  of  tithing  that  you  faithful  Church  members  have  paid.  May 
we  take  to  heart  the  words  spoken  by  him  at  the  opening  session  of 
Conference,  when  he  said :  "Pay  your  tithes." 

I  have  every  faith  in  him.  He  is  the  inspired  servant  of  the  Most 
High.  I  believe  in  the  promise  he  made:  "Pay  your  tithes,  pay  your 
offerings,  and  you  will  be  richly  blessed." 

By  so  doing,  we  make  it  possible  to  place  our  religious  training, 
our  seminary  instruction,  within  the  reach  of  students  in  the  public 
schools.  Only  thus  shall  we  be  able  to  bring  up  a  generation  of  people 
the  like  of  whom  the  world  has  not  known. 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

W'e  have  listened  to  a  great  many  testimonies  from  our  brethren 
during  this  conference. 

We  shall  now  call  on  some  of  our  sisters  to  address  us  briefly. 

SISTER  LOUISE  Y.  ROBISON 

President  of  the  Relief  Society 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  sure  you  will  know  that  I  need  your 
faith  and  prayers,  but  I  do  love  to  bear  my  testimony.  I  know  that 
our  Heavenly  Father  has  been  good  to  me,  and  to  all  women,  especially 
since  this  glorious  gospel  has  been  restored.  It  seems  to  me  that  the 
women  of  this  Church  cannot  fail  to  show  our  Heavenly  Father  their 
gratitude  by  upholding  the  standards  of  the  Church  and  by  obeying 
entirely,  as  far  as  it  is  humanly  possible,  the  instructions  of  our  leaders. 
I  am  happy  to  say  that  the  Latter-day  Saint  women  are  loyal,  and  do 
pray  earnestly  for  our  Authorities.  The  Relief  Society  women  are 
striving  to  give  to  the  Church  boys  and  girls  who  are  clean  and  who  will 
be  capable  of  carrying  on  the  Lord's  work.  When  I  hear  the  mission 
presidents'  reports,  my  heart  is  just  thrilled  to  think  of  the  work  that 
the  missionaries  have  done ;  that  they  have  carried  the  gospel  to  foreign 
countries.  My  parents  were  partakers  of  it,  and  I  can  only  pray  that 
I  shall  live  and  that  I  shall  encourage  other  mothers  of  Zion  to  so  live, 
that  we  may  give  to  the  world  men  and  women  who  are  clean  and  pure 
and  capable  of  carrying  this  inspiring  message  to  our  brethren  and 
sisters  abroad. 

I  thank  President  Grant  for  this  privilege,  and  I  pray  that  we 
shall  ever  be  true  to  the  leaders  of  this  Church,  and  then  I  am  sure  we 
shall  be  safe.    I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

SISTER  RUTH  MAY  FOX 

President  of  the  Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  surely  a  surprise  to  me,  and  I  stand 
before  you  entirely  dependent  upon  the  Spirit  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
as  to  what  I  shall  say.  I  may  say,  however,  that  I  am  very,  very 
proud  of  being  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day- 
Saints.  Since  I  am  asked  to  bear  my  testimony,  you  will  not 
consider  it  egotistical  if  I  say  that  from  my  childhood,  I  have  looked 
upon  the  presiding  brethren — the  President  of  this  Church,  and  those 
associated  with  him — as  the  very  servants  of  God.  I  was  taught  in  my 
early  years  that  President  Brigham  Young  was  the  mouthpiece  of  God  to 
all  mankind,  and  that  thought  has  never  wavered  in  my  heart  concerning 
him  and  also  the  succeeding  presidents  up  to  this  time.  I  want  to  say 
here  before  the  fathers  and  the  mothers,  teach  your  children  reverence 
for  the  Authorities  of  the  Church.    Teach  them  that  they  are  men  of 


SISTER  RUTH  MAY  POX 


85 


God.  Teach  them  to  obey  their  counsels.  I  was  trained  to  believe  that 
in  obeying  counsel  there  is  safety.  I  realize  that  nowadays  many  of  us 
are  not  so  particular  about  this  matter  as  our  people  used  to  be. 

Naturally,  as  you  know,  I  am  interested  in  the  youth.  I  have  been 
interested  in  my  own  children,  and  as  I  look  back  through  a  long  life 
and  take  note  of  what  I  have  gained,  I  find  it  is  my  children  that 
mean  the  most  to  me.  My  children  are  my  jewels ;  they  are  my  heritage, 
and  I  thank  the  Lord  that  they  are  fairly  good.  None  of  us  can  throw 
stones,  you  know.  We  all  live  in  glass  houses.  But  I  do  thank  the 
Lord  that  I  have  been  able  to  rear  my  children  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  do  pray  that  he  will  give  me  influence 
with  the  daughters  of  Zion,  especially;  that  because  I  have  lived  they 
may  have  more  faith  in  God  and  in  their  fathers  and  mothers  and 
in  the  Authorities  of  the  Church.  I  ask  this  blessing  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

SISTER  MAY  ANDERSON 

President  of  the  Primary  Association 

I  am  happy  today  to  be  able  to  bear  my  testimony.  I  was  not 
born  in  the  Church.  My  parents  were  converted  many  years  ago. 
When  I  was  a  young  girl  a  prediction  was  made  on  my  head  and 
blessings  were  given  to  me.  When  the  statement  was  made  in  this 
conference  that  it  is  a  good  thing  to  have  and  read  your  patriarchal 
blessings,  I  could  say,  Amen  to  that,  because  blessings  which  have 
been  pronounced  upon  my  head  have  been  literally  fulfilled.  The 
prediction  given  in  my  youth  said  I  should  come  to  be  known  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  that  my  name  would 
be  respected.  I  realize  that  if  my  name  is  respected  I  must  live  in  such 
a  way  as  to  earn  that  respect.  I  have  tried  to  do  my  duty  as  it  has 
been  presented  to  me  by  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  and 
by  my  knowledge  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

It  is  a  very  great  responsibility,  in  my  estimation,  to  raise  your 
voice  and  give  service  in  behalf  of  little  children.  Had  I  known,  in 
the  early  days  of  my  life  what  would  be  the  greatest  pleasure  to  me 
I  could  not  have  chosen  a  vocation  more  suited  to  the  happiness  and 
contentment  of  my  life  than  the  privilege  of  trying  to  help  boys  and 
girls  to  understand  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

My  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  that  God  loves 
us  and  that  he  is  willing  to  bless  us.  I  know  this  in  and  of  myself, 
and  I  ascribe  my  greatest  happiness  to  my  membership  in  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

That  we  may  all  enjoy  this  supreme  blessing,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  congregation  then  arose  and  sang  the  first  two  verses  of  the 
hymn,  "The  Spirit  of  God  Like  a  Fire  is  Burning." 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

Frankly,  I  am  a  bit  frightened.  I  might  have  used  another  word 
but  I  think  that  will  express  my  feelings.  I  do  not  believe  that  anyone 
can  face  a  presence  such  as  this  and  not  feel  a  little  abnormal.  One 
other  thing  troubles  me,  and  that  is  I  do  not  know  just  what  I  ought 
to  say.  I  have  but  one  idea  in  mind  with  which  to  begin.  After  that 
we  will  have  to  take  our  chances. 

I  recall  that  in  our  State  Constitutional  Convention,  when  the  com- 
mittee on  personal  rights  made  its  report  to  that  body  (I  think  it  was 
my  friend,  Franklin  S.  Richards  who  read  the  report)  there  was  a 
clause  in  it  which  at  the  time  did  not  strike  me  very  favorably;  and 
I  remember  I  called  up  some  question  in  regard  to  it.  I  had  not  previous 
to  that  time  given  it  due  consideration.  It  was  this :  "A  frequent 
recurrence  to  fundamental  principles  is  essential  to  the  maintenance  of 
liberty  and  the  rights  of  the  people."  I  thought  such  a  clause  un- 
necessary, and  made  some  objection,  as  I  say;  but  after  consideration 
I  concluded  that  I  was  mistaken,  and  that  the  paragraph  announced  a 
very  profound  principle,  and  a  very  necessary  thing.  I  have  thought  much 
of  it  through  the  years  since  then,  and  am  persuaded  that  it  is  a 
profitable  thing,  from  time  to  time,  to  go  to  the  consideration  of  funda- 
mental principles.  In  the  case  of  civil  government,  of  course,  reference 
to  the  consideration  of  fundamentals  is  needful  to  preserve  liberties 
of  the  people.  So,  also,  in  Church  affairs,  in  religion,  I  have  discovered 
that  when  things  get  a  bit  confused,  and  in  your  feeling  and  thought 
you  are  about  at  the  zero  point,  a  good  way  to  work  out  of  the  con- 
fusion is  to  consider  first  principles,  fundamental  things. 

Now  this  morning  the  thought  occurred  to  me  that  it  might  be 
well  for  me,  on  this  occasion,  to  consider  what  to  me  personally  are  the 
fundamental  things.  Then  if  in  an  incidental  way,  the  audience  can  get 
benefit  from  this  consideration,  there  will  be  that  much  of  gain. 

Very  well,  then,  let  me  say  first  of  all:  I  believe  in  God;  and  in 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  as  the  very  Son  of  God;  and  the  Holy  Ghost, 
as  that  Spirit  of  intelligence  that  imparts  the  knowledge  of  the  truth, 
and  is  the  witness  of  the  Father  and  Son  unto  the  world.  I  believe  that. 
I  believe  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  the  means  that  divine  wisdom 
has  devised  for  the  salvation  of  the  world.  I  believe  in  all  the  ordi- 
nances of  that  gospel  as  the  means  through  which  the  grace  of  God  is 
imparted  to  the  human  soul,  and  salvation  results  through  faith  in  and 
obedience  to  that  gospel. 

I  believe  in  the  Church  of  God,  with  God's  holy  priesthood  as  the 
inside  framework  of  it ;  that  gives  it  form  and  stability  and  power  and 
authority. 

I  believe  that  there  have  been  many  dispensations  of  the  gospel 
given  to  men.  The  dispensation  between  Adam  and  Noah,  counted  as 
the  patriarchal  dispensation;  and  the  gospel,  or  part  of  it,  not  wholly, 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


87 


but  rather  imperfectly  expressed  through  the  law  that  was  given  unto 
Israel  in  symbols,  and  signs  of  things  yet  to  come  and  not  the  very 
things  themselves,  but  stood  as  representatives  of  those  things — the 
"school  master"  to  bring  men  to  Christ. 

I  believe  in  the  mission  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ — and  in  his  atone- 
ment that  he  offered  for  the  salvation  of  men ;  and  I  believe  that  atone- 
ment is  essential  to  the  salvation  of  men.  I  believe  it  was  God's  means  of 
expressing  his  love  for  the  world,  for  as  God  so  loved  the  world  that 
he  gave  his  only  begotten  Son,  to  become  the  Savior  of  the  world,  so 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  himself  so  loved  his  brethren  that  he  was  willing 
to  make  the  sacrifice  for  their  salvation,  and  thus  gave  evidence  to  men 
indeed  of  the  love  of  God. 

I  was  speaking  a  moment  since  of  the  successive  dispensations. 
I  believe  that  the  great  dispensation,  introduced  by  the  ministry  of 
John  the  Baptist,  and  followed  by  the  ministry  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
is  the  dispensation  of  the  meridian  of  times,  for  the  development  of  those 
great  things  concerning  the  salvation  of  men  and  the  expression  of  the 
love  of  God.  I  also  believe  that,  in  fulfillment  of  the  inspired  words  of 
the  servants  of  God  in  those  days,  men  subsequently  transgressed  the 
laws,  changed  the  ordinances,  broke  that  glorious  covenant,  and  left 
the  world  again  in  darkness.  True,  throughout  that  period  from  the 
Christ  to  our  day,  there  were  left  fragments  of  the  splendid  truths  and 
sublime  teachings  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  have  become  the  com- 
mon heritage  of  the  world.  But  the  formal  authority  of  the  Church 
and  the  ordinances  of  salvation — these  were  departed  from,  and  a 
period  of  dark  apostasy  hung  over  the  world  until,  in  the  providences 
of  God,  the  time  came  for  the  introduction  of  what  is  known  to  us  as 
the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times.  God  raised  up  a  prophet  in 
these  latter  days  to  introduce  that  bringing  together  of  all  the  dispensa- 
tions that  have  ever  been,  and  welding  them  into  one  great  final  tri- 
umphant dispensation.  That  restoration  was  brought  to  pass  through 
the  work  that  God  introduced  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith ;  by  reveal- 
ing himself  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  to  this  witness,  who  was  to  be 
God's  witness  in  the  world  in  these  last  days,  the  witness  par  excellence  ; 
and  hence  the  vision  given  to  him  was  clearer  and  fuller  than  had  ever 
been  given  in  the  world  before.   I  believe  that  with  all  my  soul. 

In  the  course  of  time  this  new  witness  sealed  his  testimony  with  his 
blood.  I  doubt  not  but  what  the  wisdom  of  heaven  concluded  it  was 
essential,  because  where  a  testament  is,  as  Paul  argues,  there  must  needs 
be  the  death  of  the  testator,  in  order  that  the  final  evidence  that  man 
can  put  upon  his  life  and  his  work  might  be  given  to  his  fellowmen. 
He  gives  his  life  in  attestation  of  it.  Hence  the  broad  seal  of  Joseph 
Smith's  martyrdom  is  affixed  to  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  to  the  volume 
of  revelations  that  he  gave  to  the  world. 

Necessarily  there  had  to  be  successors  to  him.  There  have  been 
six :  Brigham  Young,  John  Taylor,  Wilford  Woodruff,  Lorenzo  Snow, 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  our  present  President,  Heber  J.  Grant. 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


There  must  be,  after  the  introduction  of  this  dispensation,  no 
recession  from  the  position  that  had  been  taken  by  the  introduction  of 
this  work.  Hence,  believing  in  God's  holy  priesthood,  I  must  needs 
believe  in  the  perpetuation  of  that  priesthood  in  its  fullness;  in  its 
glory,  in  its  power,  and  in  the  success  of  it.  The  first  prophet  must 
arrange  for  a  perpetuity  of  that  which  had  been  given  to  him.  I 
believe  that  he  did. 

It  would  not  matter  to  me  if  all  the  forms  and  ceremonies  might 
not  have  been  followed.  Substance  is  more  than  shadow ;  and  I  believe 
that  Brigham  Young  inherited,  by  the  fact  of  his  succession  to  Joseph 
Smith,  all  that  Joseph  Smith  had  received  from  God  through  the 
ministration  of  holy  angels  with  their  several  keys  of  authority  and 
power.  And  that,  succeeding  Brigham  Young,  the  next  man  in  position 
came  to  the  same  heritage,  power  and  authority.  The  one  following 
him  in  like  manner  received  the  same  heritage  of  power  and  authority ; 
and  so  all  down  the  line  until  the  present  time.  I  now  proclaim  my 
faith  absolutely  that  Heber  J.  Grant  possesses  all  that  these  other  men 
possessed ;  that  he  is  God's  servant ;  that  he  is  the  mouthpiece  of  God 
to  this  people  and  likewise  to  this  generation  of  men  so  long  as  he 
shall  live.  I  believe  that,  and  that  there  has  been  no  diminution  of 
authority  and  power  between  him  and  his  predecessors.  I  may  say  in 
the  way  of  my  testimony  concerning  him,  that  I  have  known  him  for 
a  good  many  years.  We  have  had  some  experiences  together,  not 
always,  I  was  going  to  say,  of  a  pleasant  kind,  but  I  think  I  ought  not 
to  say  that,  for  when  the  outcome  of  things  has  been  reached  the 
fulfillment  has  been  good,  but  the  way  has  not  always  been  smooth. 

There  is  no  man  that  I  know  of  anywhere  who  by  the  texture  of 
his  nature  and  character,  who  by  the  purity  and  the  uprightness  of  his 
life,  can  be  more  loved  of  God  than  President  Heber  J.  Grant.  I  have 
absolute  faith  in  his  honesty,  and  if  God  has  a  word  to  impart  to  the 
Church  or  to  the  world,  I  could  not  select  in  my  mind,  or  from  my 
experience  among  my  friends  fix  upon  a  man  whom  I  would  believe 
could  hold  the  confidence  and  favor  of  God  more  than  he.  So  that  not 
only  by  the  ordinations  that  he  has  received,  and  calls  to  authority  and 
place,  I  believe  absolutely  in  his  fitness  for  his  position.  And  when 
God  has  a  word  to  give  His  Church  or  to  the  world,  this  man,  as  long 
as  he  lives,  will  be  the  man  through  whom  it  will  come.  That  is  my 
faith  in  regard  to  Heber  J.  Grant. 

I  have  been  fortunate  enough  to  know  all  the  Presidents  of  the 
Church  since  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Of  course  I  only  knew  Brig- 
ham Young  as  a  boy  may  know  a  great  man  from  a  distance.  But 
I  sat  under  the  sound  of  his  voice,  and  heard  his  teaching,  felt  the 
influence  of  his  spirit,  and  noted  the  evidence  of  inspiration  in  his  face 
when  he  taught  the  people,  and  in  his  bearing  as  he  stood  before  them — 
he  was  God's  mouthpiece  unto  the  people.  John  Taylor  I  knew  more 
intimately.  When  I  went  on  my  first  mission  there  was  no  mission 
organized  in  that  particular  state  where  I  was  laboring.    I  was  the 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


89 


only  elder  in  it,  and  my  reports  were  made  directly  to  President  John 
Taylor,  and  my  instructions  were  received  directly  from  his  office. 
Later,  when  presiding  in  the  Southern  States  Mission,  I  found  it 
necessary  to  submit  problems  and  questions  to  him  directly,  and  to  sit 
with  him  in  council  in  relation  to  the  affairs  of  that  mission.  Later, 
of  course,  as  some  of  you  know,  I  became  his  biographer ;  so  that  all 
his  letters  in  existence,  personal  and  official — his  official  communications, 
his  journals,  and  everything  that  had  been  written  to  or  by  him,  passed 
through  my  hands;  and  I  wrote  the  story  of  his  life.  That  made  me 
intimately  acquainted  with  him. 

With  Wilford  Woodruff  I  had  the  good  fortune  to  have  most 
personal  and  confidential  relations,  and  to  me,  of  the  dearest  kind.  I 
may  say  the  same  thing,  though  not  to  the  same  extent,  with  reference 
to  Lorenzo  Snow.  Joseph  F.  Smith  I  knew  more  intimately.  I  came 
in  contact  with  his  mind,  and  sometimes  it  was  flash  against  flash.  But 
I  must  say  for  Joseph  F.  Smith  that  I  saw  him  on  numerous  occasions 
respond  to  the  spirit  of  inspiration  from  God,  and  rise  above  himself 
and  give  decisions  and  draw  conclusions ;  though  some  times  contrary 
to  his  natural  inclinations,  yet  he  followed  the  light  as  God  gave  him  to 
see  it — I  am  sure  of  that. 

I  have  already  said  concerning  Heber  J.  Grant  that  I  have  known 
him  a  long  time.  He  has  been  my  friend  on  various  occasions.  I 
appreciate  those  manifestations  of  his  good  will  for  me. 

I  believe  then  that  this  line  of  six  succeeding  presidents  of  the 
Church  have  been  men  inspired  of  God ;  that  God  has  been  with  them ; 
and  as  I  stated  recently  from  this  stand,  the  occasions  of  observing 
inspiration  in  these  men  have  been  too  positive  and  frequent  for  me 
to  doubt  for  a  moment  that  the  Church  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
has  been  organized  on  God's  plan;  that  he  has  ordained  that  there  is 
but  one  man  at  a  time  on  earth  who  receives  revelations  for  the  whole 
Church,  and  that  man  is  of  his  appointing,  approval  and  upholding. 

That,  as  to  my  faith,  is  what  I  call  fundamental  principles.  What 
I  have  said  marks  off  my  faith  in  this  present  dispensation  of  the 
gospel;  and  if  there  has  been  any  wavering  anywhere  or  at  any  time 
from  this  conviction  that  I  now  express,  I  have  not  been  conscious  of 
it.  Such  my  faith — briefly  expressed — in  fundamental  principles  that 
I  hold  in  connection  with  you,  I  presume,  in  relation  to  this  great 
latter-day  work.  And  my  faith  is  that  it  is  going  on  to  its  triumph. 
I  know  not  through  what  trying  circumstances  as  a  Church  we  shall 
pass  in  the  second  century  of  existence,  even  as  we  have  had  to  pass 
through  experiences  in  this  first  century  now  drawing  to  a  close.  I 
know  not  that;  but  I  have  supreme  confidence  that  the  second  century 
as  well  as  the  first  century  will  close  gloriously,  and  that  the  purposes 
of  God  will  be  achieved  even  as  his  wisdom  shall  unfold  them. 

I  happened  to  be  reminded  today  that  next  April  it  will  be  fifty 
years  since  I  commenced  my  public  ministry  in  the  Church.  Fifty 
years  since  I  was  called  in  a  conference  of  the  Church  such  as  this  to 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


become  a  traveling  elder ;  and  between  then  and  now  what  wonderful 
experiences  are  stretched  out !  Will  you  pardon  me  just  a  moment  if 
I  refer  to  some  of  these  things  ?  During  that  time  my  labors  have  been 
almost  incessant  in  the  interest  of  this  work,  in  preaching  from  the 
pulpit,  in  lecturing  from  platforms,  in  writing  books — expository  books, 
defensive  books,  historical  books — until  I  think  I  may  say,  without  dis- 
paragement of  others,  at  least  the  volume  of  my  work  in  this  kind — 
in  the  contributions  I  have  made  to  the  Church — is  not  exceeded  by  any 
other  man  in  that  fifty  years.  I  mean  as  to  the  volume  of  the  contribu- 
tion. As  to  the  value  of  that  contribution  of  course  others  may  have 
written  more  valuable  books.  I  will  not  go  into  that.  I  want  to  bear 
testimony  to  you  that  I  have  at  least  been  busy  in  the  period  mentioned. 
I  have  preached  the  gospel  in  many  lands;  not  in  as  many  as  some, 
but  I  have  traveled  almost  as  much  as  any  man  within  the  last  fifty 
years — not  perhaps  to  such  great  distances  as  others,  but  within  the 
English-speaking  races  I  have  covered  as  much  territory. 

I  am  mentioning  some  of  these  things  in  order  that  my  profession 
of  faith  that  I  have  made  here  today  may  be  supported  by  the  evidence 
of  steady,  persistent  effort  on  my  part  to  develop  and  to  advocate  and 
to  establish  this  great  work  of  God.  I  have  preached  under  many 
circumstances ;  within  prison  walls  where  I  myself  was  a  prisoner  for 
the  sake  of  this  work;  and  in  the  halls  of  congress  too,  where  if  I 
did  not  fill  the  term  of  my  office  I  had  the  opportunity  at  least  of  bearing 
witness  to  the  truth  of  this  work.  I  saw  the  wrath  of  a  nation  rise  to 
break  upon  my  head ;  and  when  I  took  my  station  in  the  hall  of  Repre- 
sentatives before  the  speaker's  desk,  to  take  the  oath  of  office,  I  was 
confronted  by  a  petition  signed  by  seven  millions  of  people,  rolled 
in  upon  trucks  before  the  speaker's  desk,  to  protest  against  my  in- 
stalment into  office.  And  I  was  thrust  away  from  the  first  rung  of  the 
ladder  that  I  had  dreamed  and  hoped  might  lead  to  a  career  of  use- 
fulness in  behalf  of  my  people.  This,  too,  for  obedience  to  the  doctrine 
of  the  New  Dispensation.  I  was  crushed  and  mangled  in  the  lone 
fight ;  for  it  was  a  lone  fight,  so  far  as  human  aid  is  concerned, 
with  the  exception  of  a  few  dear  hands  that  were  thrust  out  to  render 
a  little  assistance  in  a  material  way,  all  of  which  I  returned  for  the 
most  part.    But  the  helpers  were  very  few. 

I  still  held  on  in  spite  of  these  things.  I  have  faced  both  in  the 
old  world  and  the  new,  the  violence  of  mobs.  I  have  known  men  to  be 
practically  shot  from  my  side,  martyrs  to  the  cause  of  God ;  and  I 
did  not  desert  them.  I  took  my  risk  with  them  to  render  them  service, 
dead  though  they  were.  I  do  not  know  how  I  shall  ever  obtain  your 
pardon  for  such  references  as  these  to  personal  services  in  this,  God's 
work.  But  this  is  my  object,  and  my  object  alone;  that  after  bearing 
testimony  to  the  fundamental  things  of  this  work,  and  my  confidence 
in  it,  I  hope  that  if  anywhere  along  the  line  I  have  caused  any  of  you 
to  doubt  my  faith  in  this  work,  then  let  this  testimony  and  my  indicated 
life's  work  be  a  correction  of  it.  I  make  reference  to  these  personal 
things  in  fifty  years  of  service  so  that  you  may  know  that  my  testimony 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


91 


has  some  sanctions  for  it  in  the  life  of  service  I  have  given  to  the  cause. 
And  if  to  your  minds,  I  say  again,  there  does  not  occur  remembrance 
of  this  service,  then  let  the  shame  of  it  be  mine.  It  would  not  be  good 
taste  for  me  to  make  further  allusion  to  such  things. 

After  the  hymn,  "O  Ye  Mountains  High,"  had  been  sung  by  the 
congregation,  the  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  John  E.  Hepler, 
who  is  in  charge  of  the  Bureau  of  Information  on  the  Temple  Grounds. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

On  Sunday  morning,  October  6th,  the  auditorium  and  galleries  of 
the  large  Tabernacle  were  crowded  to  capacity,  every  seat  being  taken 
and  every  available  space  in  the  aisles  and  doorways  being  occupied. 

The  Assembly  Hall  directly  south  of  the  Tabernacle  was  crowded 
with  people  who  listened  to  the  Conference  proceedings  as  they  were 
broadcast  from  the  Tabernacle.  Thousands  of  others  who  were  unable 
to  get  inside  of  either  of  these  buildings,  assembled  upon  the  Taber- 
nacle grounds  and  listened  to  the  services  by  means  of  loud  speakers 
that  had  been  installed. 

The  fifth  session  of  the  Conference  began  promptly  at  ten  o'clock, 
with  President  Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "We  thank 
thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet." 

Elder  Joseph  T.  Finlinson,  President  of  the  Deseret  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 

Sister  Mamie  Stark,  assisted  by  the  choir,  sang  the  hymn,  "O  Mv 
Father." 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

When  Jesus  came  into  the  coasts  of  Csesarea  Philippi,  he  asked 
his  disciples,  saying: 

'"Whom  do  men  say  that  I  the  Son  of  man  am? 

"And  they  said,  Some  say  that  thou  art  John  the  Baptist ;  some  Elias ;  and 
others  Jeremias,  or  one  of  the  prophets. 

"He  saith  unto  them,  But  whom  say  ye  that  I  am? 

"And  Simon  Peter  answered  and  said,  Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  son  of  the 
living  God." 

If  the  Lord  will  give  me  help,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire 
to  make  this  scripture  which  I  have  read  the  basis  of  the  brief  remarks 
that  I  am  to  make  this  morning.  Never  before  have  I  more  profoundly 
felt  my  own  weakness  and  utter  dependence  upon  the  Lord.  Facing  this 
great  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints,  which  appears  to  me  possibly 
the  greatest  ever  assembled  in  the  history  of  the  Church,  I  am  over- 
come with  emotion,  which  leaves  me  in  a  very  dependent  frame  of 
mind. 

I  have  prepared  and  must  necessarily  refer  briefly  to  notes  which 
I  have,  because  I  desire  in  a  few  minutes  to  take  you  over  a  long  trail, 
a  winding  trail,  which  will  lead  us  back  a  hundred  years. 

FUNDAMENTAL  DOCTRINES 

The  scripture  which  I  have  read,  uttered  by  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world,  so  often  quoted  and  expounded  before  congregations  of  Christian 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


93 


people,  contains  fundamental  doctrines  with  which  the  members  of  the 
Church  should  be  thoroughly  familiar.  The  question  propounded  was 
a  very  simple  one :  "Whom  do  men  say  that  I  the  Son  of  man  am  ?" 
The  answer  is  equally  simple,  where  definite  information  or  knowledge 
is  lacking :  "Some  say  that  thou  art  John  the  Baptist,  some  Jeremias  or 
Elias,  or  one  of  the  prophets."  But  Peter  made  a  definite  and  direct 
answer :  "Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God."  Then  said 
the  Redeemer  to  him:  "Blessed  art  thou,  Simon  Barjona;  for  flesh  and 
blood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven. 
*  *  *  Thou  art  Peter,  and  upon  this  rock  (the  rock  of  revelation)  I 
will  build  my  church,  and  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  it." 
And  continuing,  he  said  to  Peter :  "I  will  give  unto  thee  the  keys  of  the 
kingdom  of  heaven:  and  whatsoever  thou  shalt  bind  on  earth  shall  be 
bound  in  heaven;  and  whatsoever  thou  shalt  loose  on  earth  shall  be 
loosed  in  heaven." 

UPON  THE  PRINCIPLE  OF  REVELATION 

A  thoughtful  study  of  these  words  reveals  these  great  truths : 
First,  that  it  is  possible  that  knowledge  not  previously  possessed  may 
come  from  God  our  Father  to  his  children  who  are  here  upon  earth. 
It  is  probably  true  that  Peter  himself  did  not  understand  the  direct 
source  from  which  the  impulse  that  prompted  his  answer  had  come, 
but  this  scripture  makes  it  plain  that  it  came  from  God  our  Father, 
who  spoke  to  him  through  the  influence,  or  whisperings,  of  the  Holy 
Ghost. 

Another  important  truth  which  this  scripture  reveals  is  that  the 
means  of  communication  between  our  Father  who  is  in  heaven  and  his 
children  who  are  here  upon  earth,  is  the  Holy  Spirit  of  God,  the  Holy 
Ghost,  communicated  to  us  through  the  precious  gift  of  revelation. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  to  be  built  upon 
this  principle  of  revelation. 

Another  very  important  thing  which  is  definitely  implied  by  these 
words  spoken  by  the  Redeemer  of  the  world  is  that  the  keys  which  were 
bestowed  upon  Peter,  when  in  the  possession  of  any  other  man,  as 
they  were  in  the  possession  of  Peter,  confer  upon  him  the  authority 
to  bind  upon  earth  and  it  shall  be  bound  in  heaven ;  to  loose  upon  earth 
and  it  shall  be  loosed  in  heaven. 

Questions  which  are  of  vital  importance,  and  in  which  this  principle 
or  doctrine  of  revelation  is  directly  involved,  have  come  to  the  Church 
from  the  time  of  its  organization  until  the  present.  They  are  con- 
stantly being  introduced  and  discussed,  many  of  which,  unless  properly 
understood  and  defined,  lead  to  confusion  and  misunderstanding. 

A  TEMPLE  BUILDING  CHURCH 

It  is  to  one  of  these  questions  that  I  desire  to  confine  my  remarks 
this  morning.  I  refer  to  the  propaganda  which  is  being  so  industriously 
circulated  among  members  of  the  Church,  in  favor  of  the  immediate 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


construction  of  a  temple  at  Independence,  in  Jackson  county,  Missouri. 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  a  temple-building 
church.  Among  the  very  first  commandments  that  were  given  to  the 
Church  was  the  word  of  the  Lord  in  regard  to  the  building  of  temples; 
and  we  are  told  in  the  revelation  that  its  members  are  always  expected 
to  do  this  in  order  that  the  house  of  the  Lord  may  be  erected,  and  a 
place  properly  prepared  where  the  ordinances  of  his  house  may  be 
administered  in  the  manner  in  which  he  designs  that  they  should  be. 

In  the  early  history  of  the  Church,  a  temple  was  erected  at  Kirt- 
land,  Ohio,  the  first  to  be  dedicated  to  the  Lord  in  this  dispensation. 
Prior  to  that  time,  however,  the  Lord  had  revealed  to  the  Church  that 
the  center  stake  of  Zion  was  to  be  established  in  Jackson  county,  Mis- 
souri. I  desire  to  read  the  revelation  which  refers  to  this,  and  which 
is  contained  in  the  eighty-fourth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

"A  revelation  of  Jesus  Christ  unto  his  servant,  Joseph  Smith,  Jr.,  and  six 
elders,  as  they  united  their  hearts  and  lifted  their  voices  on  high. 

"Yea,  the  word  of  the  Lord  concerning  his  Church,  established  in  the  last 
days  for  the  restoration  of  his  people,  as  he  has  spoken  by  the  mouth  of  his 
prophets,  and  for  the  gathering  of  his  saints  to  stand  upon  Mount  Zion,  which 
shall  be  the  city  of  New  Jerusalem. 

"Which  city  shall  be  built,  beginning  at  the  temple  lot,  which  is  appointed 
by  the  finger  of  the  Lord,  in  the  western  boundaries  of  the  state  of  Missouri,  and 
dedicated  by  the  hand  of  Joseph  Smith,  Jun.,  and  others  with  whom  the  Lord 
was  well  pleased. 

"Verily,  this  is  the  word  of  the  Lord,  that  the  city  New  Jerusalem  shall  be 
built  by  the  gathering  of  the  Saints,  beginning  at  this  place,  even  the  place  of  the 
temple,  which  temple  shall  be  reared  in  this  generation. 

"For  verily  this  generation  shall  not  all  pass  away  until  an  house  shall  be 
built  unto  the  Lord,  and  a  cloud  shall  rest  upon  it,  which  cloud  shall  be  even 
the  glory  of  the  Lord,  which  shall  fill  the  house." 

PERIOD  OF  PERSECUTION 

All  of  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  who  are  familiar  with  the 
history  of  the  Church  know  that  after  the  gathering  of  numbers  of  its 
members  to  the  state  of  Missouri,  persecution  developed  which  became 
so  intense  and  unbearable  that  they  were  not  permitted  to  remain  there. 
During  the  period  of  these  persecutions  excavations  were  made  at  Far 
West  in  Missouri,  and  the  corner  stone  laid  there,  with  the  intention 
of  erecting  a  temple  at  that  place,  but  because  of  persecution  the  work 
proceeded  no  farther. 

The  people  were  finally  driven  from  the  state.  Many  were  put  to 
death.  Many  were  imprisoned,  and  property  of  inestimable  value  was 
confiscated. 

Driven  from  Missouri,  members  of  the  Church  migrated  to  the 
state  of  Illinois,  where  they  found  temporary  asylum  and  peace.  It 
was  nine  years  after  the  revelation  from  which  I  have  just  read  was 
given  that  the  Lord  commanded  the  Church  to  proceed  immedi- 
ately to  erect  a  temple  at  Nauvoo,  Illinois.  Before  this  building 
was  entirely  completed,  opposition  to  the  Church  again  developed. 
Persecution  became  more  intense,  perhaps,  than  ever  before.  Men 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


95 


were  placed  under  arrest,  charged  w.ith  sedition,  murder,  and  other 
kindred  offenses — not  one  of  which  was  ever  proved  to  be  true — 
with  the  result,  as  you  all  know,  that  the  members  of  the  Church 
were  again  driven  from  their  homes,  and  under  the  leadership  of 
Brigham  Young,  turned  their  faces  westward,  in  the  hope  that  they 
might  find  peace  and  the  opportunity  to  worship  the  Lord  as  their 
consciences  dictated,  here  in  the  valleys  of  these  mountains.  Brigham 
Young,  having  become  the  leader  of  the  Church,  it  was  under  his 
presidency  that  the  migration  across  the  plains  was  successfully  carried 
out. 

Just  as  definitely  as  the  Church  was  commanded  to  make  Jackson 
county,  Missouri,  the  gathering  place  of  the  Saints,  and  to  erect  a 
temple  there  in  this  generation,  upon  which  a  cloud  should  rest  by 
day,  so  does  he,  in  this  scripture  which  I  have  read,  release  them  from 
that  responsibility.   And  he  says  further : 

"This  I  make  an  example  unto  you,  for  your  consolation  concerning  all 
those  who  have  been  commanded  to  do  a  work  and  have  been  hindered  by  the 
hands  of  their  enemies,  and  by  oppression,  saith  the  Lord  your  God." 

After  the  arrival  of  the  pioneers  in  this  valley  one  of  the  first 
important  acts  of  the  President  was  to  designate  a  spot  for  the  erection 
of  a  temple,  upon  the  block  where  we  are  now  assembled,  work  upon 
which  was  immediately  commenced  and  prosecuted  until  the  structure 
was  finished  and  dedicated,  and  has  for  many  years  been  in  operation. 

VARIOUS  FACTIONS 

At  the  time  of  the  exodus  of  the  Church  from  Nauvoo,  Illinois, 
many  of  its  members  remained  behind,  among  them  the  family,  of  the 
Prophet.  Sidney  Rigdon,  the  man  who  had  dedicated  the  spot  in 
Missouri  where  the  city  of  Zion  and  temple  were  to  be  reared,  a  close 
friend  of  Joseph  Smith,  and  at  one  time  his  counselor  in  the  Presidency, 
retired  to  Pittsburgh,  where  he  gathered  around  him  a  small  congrega- 
tion, and  organized  a  church  after  the  pattern  of  the  Church  at  Nauvoo. 
The  movement,  however,  was  an  entire  failure,  and  it  was  but  a  short 
time  until  his  congregation  left  him  and  scattered. 

James  J.  Strang,  another  man  of  great  influence  and  power  in 
the  Church,  claiming  that  Joseph  Smith  had  designated  him  to  be  his 
successor  in  the  Presidency,  led  away  a  considerable  number  of 
people  to  Beaver  Island,  in  Lake  Michigan,  where  he  organized  a 
church  and  sent  his  missionaries  to  Great  Britain  and  other  parts 
of  the  world.  He  was  finally  anointed  king,  by  his  congregation,  and 
reigned  as  a  king  until  finally  his  administration  became  unbearable, 
and  he  was  (killed  by  one  of  the  members  of  his  own  congregation. 

Lyman  Wight,  a  man  of  influence  in  the  Church,  gathered  to- 
gether a  small  body  of  these  people  who  remained  behind,  and  es- 
tablished himself  in  Texas,  where  for  a  time  he  held  a  small  con- 
gregation together.  But  like  all  the  others,  it  was  only  a  short  time 
until  there  was  dissolution  and  he  was  left  alone. 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


It  was  from  the  members  of  these  different  congregations,  brought 
together  under  the  leadership  of  Joseph  Smith,  the  son  of  the  prophet, 
that  the  church  known  as  the  Reorganized  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  was  formed.    This  denomination  is  still  in  existence. 

HEDRICKITES  OR  CHURCH  OF  CHRIST 

The  matter  to  which  I  desire  to  call  particular  attention  relates  to 
the  small  congregation  of  people  known  as  Hedrickites.  In  1851 
Granville  Hedrick  and  Daniel  Judy,  both  of  whom  had  been  regularly 
ordained  elders  in  the  Church,  began  to  preach  the  gospel  as  they 
understood  it.  They  gathered  around  them  a  number  of  converts. 
They  rejected  the  doctrine  of  plural  marriage,  the  doctrine  of  baptism 
for  the  dead,  and  practically  all  of  the  revelations  given  to  the  Church 
through  Joseph  Smith  after  1834,  declaring  that  from  that  time  forward 
he  had  been  a  fallen  prophet.  These  people,  in  1864,  removed  to 
Jackson  county,  Missouri,  and  soon  after,  by  purchase,  acquired  a  small 
portion  of  the  tract  of  land  which  was  originally  known  as  the  temple 
block.  The  tract  of  land  purchased  by  Edward  Partridge,  and  which 
was  designated  as  the  temple  block,  consisted  of  some  63  acres.  This 
had  been  subdivided  and  sold,  so  that  the  Hedrickites  acquired  only 
about  three  acres  of  the  original  tract,  which  they  now  hold. 

By  the  addition  of  numbers  of  people  who  have  dissented  from 
the  Reorganized  Church  and  others,  the  numbers  of  the  Hedrickites 
have  recently  been  considerably  increased.  They  have  now  organized 
themselves  into  a  church  which  they  call  the  Church  of  Christ. 

SOLICITING  AID 

It  is  a  well  known  fact  to  many  of  you  that  these  people  have  sent 
out  their  agents,  who  have  recently  visited  many  of  the  wards  of  the 
Church  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  that  are  in  Utah,  Arizona,  California, 
Idaho  and  in  other  places.  The  message  which  they  bring  to  us  is 
this :  that  the  Lord  has  revealed  to  them  that  the  time  has  come  when 
the  temple  is  to  be  erected  upon  the  temple  lot  at  Jackson  county, 
that  this  scripture  which  I  have  read,  from  section  84  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  may  be  fulfilled,  because  they  call  attention  to  the  fact 
that  the  generation  which  lived  at  the  time  that  the  revelation  was 
given  has  about  passed  away.  They  have  been  to  us.  They 
have  come  to  our  office  soliciting  aid.  They  would  like  us 
to  assist  them  in  building  a  temple.  In  other  words,  they  would 
like  us  to  become  a  part  of  their  organization,  not  to  direct  it,  not 
to  control  it,  but  to  act  in  harmony  with  it. 

A  HOUSE  BUT  NOT  A  TEMPLE 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  with  all  good  feeling  toward  these  people, 
which  we  have  always  had,  and  always  manifested,  you  will  readily 
understand  the  impossibility  of  such  a  coalition.  It  is  true  that  a 
house  may  be  erected  upon  that  tract  of  ground  in  this  generation,  but 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


97 


it  will  not  be  a  temple  erected  to  the  name  of  the  Lord  and  accepted 
by  him,  until  the  time  comes  when  he  shall  speak  through  the  proper 
channel,  and  the  work  be  accomplished  by  his  recognized  church. 

THE  PURPOSE  OF  A  TEMPLE 

I  asked  these  people  what  they  would  do  with  the  temple  if  they 
had  one.  What  would  a  temple  be  to  people  who  do  not  believe  in 
baptism  for  the  dead?  The  first  great  purpose,  when  the  Lord  com- 
manded the  building  of  the  temple  at  Nauvoo,  was  that  a  proper  place 
might  be  provided  for  the  administration  of  the  ordinances  of  the 
house  of  the  Lord  in  behalf  of  our  dead ;  and  the  Lord  told  us  plainly 
that  except  we  went  to  and  completed  that  work,  that  the  keys  of 
authority  for  the  administration  of  these  ordinances  might  be  conferred, 
he  would  no  longer  accept  the  administration  of  the  ordinance  of 
baptism  for  the  dead  as  we  had  been  administering  it. 

Now,  in  connection  with  this  I  desire  to  call  your  attention  to 
something  which  has  direct  application  to  it. 

THEIR  OFFERINGS  ACCEPTED 

At  the  time  that  the  revelation  was  given  commanding  the  construc- 
tion of  the  Nauvoo  temple,  which  was  about  ten  years  after  the  one 
from  which  I  have  read,  the  Lord  makes  this  plain  and  definite  state- 
ment : 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  that  when  I  give  a  commandment  to  any  of 
the  sons  of  men  to  do  a  work  unto  my  name,  and  those  sons  of  men  go  with 
all  their  might  and  with  all  they  have  to  perform  that  work,  and  cease  not  their 
diligence,  and  their  enemies  come  upon  them  and  hinder  them  from  performing 
that  work,  behold,  it  behooveth  me  to  require  that  work  no  more  at  the  hands  of 
those  sons  of  men,  but  to  accept  of  their  offerings. 

"Therefore,  for  this  cause  have  I  accepted  the  offerings  of  those  whom  I 
commanded  to  build  up  a  city  and  a  house  unto  my  name,  in  Jackson  County, 
Missouri,  and  were  hindered  by  their  enemies,  saith  the  Lord,  your  God." 

It  reveals  to  us  this  great  truth,  that  God  does  not  require  at  the 
hands  of  men  the  accomplishment  of  that  which  is  impossible — not 
impossible  to  him,  but  impossible  to  them.  Whether  it  applies  to  this 
particular  subject  which  I  am  treating,  whether  it  applies  to  any  other 
law  that  has  been  given  of  the  Lord,  and  which  the  Church  has  con- 
scientiously endeavored  to  carry  out  and  been  prevented  from  doing  so 
by  the  enactment  of  civil  law  which  would  bring  us  into  direct  conflict 
with  the  government  under  which  we  live, — the  Lord  holds  that  in 
abeyance. 

IN  THE  TOPS  OF  THE  MOUNTAINS 

Now,  do  not  understand  me  to  say,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  or 
to  infer  that  Jackson  county,  Missouri,  will  not  eventually  be  the 
gathering  place  of  the  saints,  that  it  will  not  be  the  place  for  the 
erection  of  the  city  which  shall  be  known  as  the  New  Jerusalem; 
but  it  is  very  definitely  certain  that  it  was  not  the  will  of  the  Lord  that 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


it  should  be  made  the  first  great  gathering  place  of  the  members  of 
his  Church  in  this  dispensation.  Otherwise  he  would  not  have  brought 
the  people  to  these  valleys  of  the  mountains ;  otherwise  the  words  of  the 
prophets  of  old  would  not  have  been  fulfilled.  Isaiah,  long  ago,  before 
the  birth  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  declared,  looking  into  the 
future,  that  it  should  come  to  pass  in  the  last  days  that  the  mountain 
of  the  Lord's  house  should  be  established, — not  upon  the  plains  of 
Missouri,  nor  the  rolling  hills  of  Illinois, — but  it  should  be  established 
in  the  top  of  the  mountains,  and  should  be  exalted  above  the  hills, 
and  all  nations  should  flow  unto  it.  Many  people  should  go  and  say : 
Come  ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain  of  the  Lord,  to  the  house 
of  the  God  of  Jacob.  For  what  purpose?  That  we  may  there  be 
taught  his  ways  and  learn  to  walk  in  his  paths. 

FROM  ALL  PARTS  OF  THE  WORLD 

If  that  scripture  to  which  I  refer  has  not  been  fulfilled  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  during  the  past  hundred 
years,  it  has  not  been  fulfilled  anywhere.  Father  Jacob,  when  he 
laid  his  hands  upon  Joseph,  his  younger  son,  declared  that  his  heritage 
had  prevailed  beyond  that  of  his  progenitors.  They  were  given 
Palestine,  but  his  heritage  extended  to  the  utmost  bounds  of  the  ever- 
lasting hills ;  to  a  land  shadowed  with  wings ;  to  a  land  rich  in  gold 
and  silver  and  the  precious  things  of  the  earth ;  to  a  land  where  the 
gathering  of  a  people  would  occur,  who  would  make  the  desert  to 
blossom  as  the  rose ;  a  land  in  which  cities  would  be  built  in  what  had 
before  been  desolate  places ;  a  land  in  which  the  voices  of  children  and 
music  would  be  heard,  where  before  there  had  been  silence  and  deso- 
lation. 

As  I  look  at  this  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints  today  I  see 
in  it  the  fulfillment  of  these  words  of  the  prophet.  There  are  gathered 
here  people  from  all  parts  of  the  world.  They  have  come  to  Zion. 
The}-  are  the  sons  of  Joseph,  the  heritage  to  whose  race  and  people 
was  conferred  upon  his  younger  son,  Ephraim.  Oh,  it  is  a  wonderful 
thing,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  could  only  understand  it.  The 
redemption  of  Zion  is  yet  to  come. 

THE  UNITED  ORDER 

I  found  on  my  desk  yesterday  a  printed  communication  from  a 
man,  undoubtedly  a  good  man,  undoubtedly  earnest  in  what  he  says, 
in  which  he  declares  himself  to  be  a  forerunner  of  the  establishment 
of  the  United  Order,  the  law  of  consecration  which  was  given  to 
the  Church.  He  is  a  seventy  in  the  Church  and  in  good  standing.  He 
makes  himself  the  self-appointed  guardian  of  the  Church,  a  watch- 
man upon  the  towers  of  Zion. 

The  Lord  gave  us  the  law  of  consecration  and  the  United  Order, 
which  is  the  order  that  God's  people  must  sooner  or  later  obey — 
I  bear  testimony  to  that ;  I  have  tried  it ;  I  know  its  benefits.    It  was 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


99 


not  a  failure  on  the  part  of  the  Church  where  I  resided,  but  we  were 
evidently  not  prepared  for  it.  But  the  Lord  told  us,  as  recorded  in  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  that  this  law  should  be  held  in  abeyance 
until  the  time  of  the  redemption  of  Zion. 

THE  NEW  JERUSALEM 

I  would  like  to  read  if  you  will  excuse  me  for  possibly  overrunning 
the  time  a  little — from  the  Book  of  Mormon,  something  that  has  a 
direct  bearing  upon  this  subject.  These  are  the  words  of  the  Redeemer 
himself  who  came  and  ministered  to  the  Nephite  people  upon  this 
continent.    Speaking  of  that  which  was  yet  far  future  he  says: 

"It  shall  come  to  pass  that  I  will  establish  my  people,  O  house  of  Israel. 

"And  behold,  this  people  will  I  establish  in  this  land,  unto  the  fulfilling  of 
the  covenant  which  I  have  made  with  your  father  Jacob. 

"This  people" — he  was  speaking  directly  to  the  Nephite  people. 

"And  it  shall  be  a  New  Jerusalem.  And  the  powers  of  heaven  shall  be  in  the 
midst  of  this  people;  yea,  even  I  will  be  in  the  midst  of  you." 

Again,  in  the  following  chapter,  speaking  of  the  people  that  should 
inhabit  this  land,  calling  them  to  repentance,  he  says : 

"If  they  will  repent  and  hearken  unto  my  words,  and  harden  not  their 
hearts,  I  will  establish  my  church  among  them," — which  he  has  done. 

"And  they  shall  come  in  unto  the  covenant  and  be  numbered  among  this 
the  remnant  of  Jacob,  unto  whom  I  have  given  this  land  for  their  inheritance. 

"And  they  shall  assist  my  people,  the  remnant  of  Jacob,  and  also  as  many 
of  the  house  of  Israel  as  shall  come,  that  they  may  build  a  city,  which  shall 
be  called  the  New  Jerusalem. 

"And  then  shall  they  assist  my  people  that  they  may  be  gathered  in,  who  are 
scattered  upon  all  the  face  of  the  land,  in  unto  the  New  Jerusalem. 

"And  then  shall  the  power  of  heaven  come  down  among  them;  and  I  also 
will  be  in  the  midst." 

THE  ACCOMPLISHMENT  OF  GOD'S  PURPOSES 

What  a  wonderful  conception  of  the  purposes  of  the  Almighty  we 
have,  when  we  come  to  consider  not  only  the  accomplishments  of 
the  past  century,  but  that  which  is  still  before  the  Church.  The  opening 
of  the  greatest  gospel  dispensation  in  the  history  of  the  world,  for 
it  means  the  consummation  of  God's  work.  It  means  the  redemption 
of  his  covenant  people,  the  bringing  of  them  together,  and  their 
restoration  to  the  promised  lands  of  their  fathers.  It  means  that 
Judah  shall  return  to  Palestine,  which  they  are  doing.  The  World 
War  brought  about  wonderful  changes,  all  looking  to  the  fulfillment  of 
these  words  of  the  prophets.  It  brought  Palestine  under  the  pro- 
tectorate of  Great  Britain,  the  heritage  of  their  own  people,  for  Great 
Britain,  the  Anglo-Saxon  people  of  the  world  today,  are  largely  made 
up  of  the  remnants  of  the  ten  tribes  of  Israel  who  were  carried  away 
captive  by  Shalmanezer. 

Thus  the  Lord  moves  in  a  mysterious  way  to  accomplish  his 
purposes.    We  do  not  always  understand  them.    We  do  not  always 


V 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


understand  the  end  in  the  beginning,  but  as  we  see  the  gradual  de- 
velopment of  the  Lord's  work  we  come  to  understand  it. 

I  suppose  few  people  see,  in  the  coming  to  the  United  States  of 
Ramsay  Macdonald,  the  prime  minister  of  Great  Britain,  anything 
that  has  particular  relationship  to  the  word  of  God,  but  I  see  in  it 
possibilities  of  wonderful  accomplishment.  He  comes  from  this  British 
nation,  this  nation  of  Christian  people,  this  nation  among  which  Chris- 
tianity was  established  while  Rome  was  still  a  heathen  nation,  this  people 
who  were  the  first  to  erect  a  Christian  church,  as  far  as  we  are  aware ; 
where  from  that  time  to  the  present  the  people — speaking  of  the  people  at 
large — have  retained  their  faith  in  Christ,  and  according  to  the  light  that 
they  have  had,  have  served  him.  The  Lord  will  use  them  as  his  instru- 
ments in  the  bringing  about  of  these  mighty  purposes,  one  of  the  greatest 
of  which  is  the  gathering  of  these  dispersed  tribes. 

There  are  a  hundred  and  thirty  millions  of  people  in  Russia.  Who 
are  they?  What  is  their  ancestry?  Prof.  Chwolson  of  the  National 
Museum  at  St.  Petersburg,  has  traced  more  than  seven  hundred  tombs 
of  people  that  had  been  buried  along  the  route  traveled  by  the  Ten 
Tribes  from  the  time  they  left  Assyria  until  they  found  their  way  into 
southern  Russia,  into  the  Balkan  states,  into  the  British  Isles  and 
northern  Europe.  They  are  the  people  from  whom  the  harvest  of  the 
Church  is  being  gathered  today. 

A  SIGNIFICANT  THING 

An  interesting  thing  that  I  noted  here,  to  which  I  wish  to  call  your 
attention,  is  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  tells  us  that  the  Jews  shall 
begin  to  believe,  before  the  coming  of  Christ.  At  a  meeting  recently 
held  at  Hamburg,  in  Germany,  attended  by  four  hundred  missionary 
Jews,  it  was  announced  that  in  Russia  alone,  during  the  past  seven 
years  since  the  World  War — the  World  War  gave  liberty  to  the  Russian 
people,  the  most  down-trodden,  priest-ridden  people  in  the  world  who 
profess  to  be  civilized — eight  hundred  thousand  Jews  have  accepted 
belief  in  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Redeemer  of  Israel.  Rather  a  significant 
thing,  is  it  not,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  it  is  true  ? 

THE  MOUNTAIN  OF  THE  LORD'S  HOUSE 

I  must  not  continue  my  remarks.  I  thought  of  this  hymn  which  we 
sang  yesterday: 

"High  on  the  mountain  top, 
A  banner  is  unfurled; 
Ye  nations  now  look  up ; 

It  waves  to  all  the  world. 
*   *  * 

"For  God  remembers  still 
His  promise  made  of  old" 
He  hasn't  forgotten  it. 
"That  he  on  Zion's  hill 
Truth's  standard  would  unfold! 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


101 


"His  house  shall  there  be  reared, 

His  glory  to  display ; 

And  people  shall  be  heard 

In  distant  lands  to  say: 

We'll  now  go  up  and  serve  the  Lord, 

Obey  His  truth,  and  learn  His  word." 

I  knew  the  good  man  who  wrote  these  verses,  inspired  by  the 
spirit  of  prophecy;  for  he  declared  just  what  we  are  realizing  today, 
not  only  in  behalf  of  the  members  of  the  Church,  but  thousands  of 
people,  who  are  coming  here  every  year  to  this  Bureau  of  Information, 
where  they  are  asking  for  information  regarding  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints;  and  they  are  receiving  it,  information 
properly  given.  Its  influence  is  felt  in  all  parts  of  the  world.  Away 
down  in  Czecho-Slovakia,  where  President  Widtsoe  has  recently  opened 
a  new  mission,  the  influence  of  this  Bureau  of  Information  lias  made 
our  elders  welcome  by  the  government  of  that  country. 

So  the  words  of  Isaiah  are  being  fulfilled ;  the  mountain  of  the 
Lord's  house  is  established  in  the  top  of  the  mountains.  That  is 
what  we  are  particularly  interested  in.  It  has  been  exalted  above  the 
hills,  and  many  people  have  come  here  for  the  purpose  of  learning 
the  way  of  the  Lord,  that  they  may  learn  to  walk  in  his  paths. 

NOT  TEMPLES  OF  THE  LORD 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  Do  not  allow  this  question 
of  the  building  of  the  temple  in  Jackson  county  to  worry  you.  A 
house  may  be  built  by  these  people  to  whom  I  have  referred,  but  it  will 
not  be  a  temple  recognized  by  the  living  God.  One  of  the  first  things 
the  Nephite  people  did,  after  they  landed  here,  was  to  erect  a  temple, 
and  they  built  it  after  the  pattern  of  the  temple  of  Solomon.  They 
forgot  the  Lord.  They  denied  him,  and  became  idolaters,  even  to 
the  offering  of  human  sacrifice.  And  yet  when  Hernan  Cortes  landed 
in  Mexico  he  found  the  most  magnificent  temples  there,  dedicated  to 
the  worship  of  the  Devil,  and  they  acknowledged  that  they  worshipped 
the  Devil,  not  because  they  loved  him,  but  because  they  feared  him. 
They  said  that  he  appeared  to  them  in  bodily  form  and  instructed  them 
regarding  their  duties ;  and  I  believe  there  was  something  in  it,  myself. 
They  were  temples,  but  they  were  not  temples  that  were  accepted  by 
the  Lord.  There  was  one  small  building  at  Tezcoco,  on  the  shores 
of  the  lake,  just  out  from  the  City  of  Mexico,  in  which  there  was 
no  idol,  in  which  no  human  sacrifice  was  offered,  which  was  adorned 
"with  flowers ;  and  when  asked  to  whom  the  house  was  erected, 
the  natives  said  it  was  to  their  Fair  God  who  had  visited  them  and 
gone  away,  but  had  promised  that  he  would  return,  and  they  were 
waiting  for  him  ;  that  he  was  a  man  who  taught  them  peace  and  love,  to 
abstain  from  war,  to  love  peace,  and  help  one  another.  Just  a  remain- 
ing vestige  of  the  gospel  of  Christ  which  was  left  among  that  people, 
and  they  are  looking  for  the  return  of  Quetzalcoatl. 

I  pray  the  blessing  of  the  Lord  upon  you,  through  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


A  duet  entitled  "An  Angel  From  on  High"  was  sung  by  Cyril 
Martin  and  Ida  Hepworth. 

ELDER  J.  HOWARD  JENKINS 

Former  President  of  the  New  Zealand  Mission 

Responsibility  always  makes  us  apprehensive,  so  this  morning  I  feel 
entirely  dependent  upon  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  for  those  things  that 
I  shall  say. 

This  is  a  time  of  refreshing.  We  have  all  come  to  conference  this 
morning  to  be  refreshed  and  to  return  home  strengthened  in  our  purpose 
in  life,  to  carry  on  the  ideals  of  this  splendid  Church. 

I  feel  like  a  watchman  from  the  outposts  of  New  Zealand  this 
morning,  when  I  say  to  you  that  the  gospel  is  being  preached  in  that 
land,  and  the  inhabitants  of  that  great  domain  of  the  British  Empire 
are  being  given  the  opportunity  of  learning  of  the  truths  of  the  gospel. 
The  elders  are  faithful  and  true,  and  I  have  been  impressed  with  the 
splendid  manhood  of  this  Church. 

As  I  said  in  the  beginning,  responsibility  makes  us  apprehensive. 
As  fathers  and  as  leaders  of  the  Church  I  know  that  we  are  appre- 
hensive, but  I  see  no  cause.  The  young  men  of  this  Church  are  building 
splendid  roads.  They  are  building  finer  meetinghouses  than  we  have 
ever  enjoyed.  They  are  building  splendidly  today,  and  I  am  satisfied 
that  they  are  not  going  to  neglect  the  important  phase  of  our  purpose 
in  coming  to  the  earth.  I  believe  that  there  is  a  finer  manhood  in  this 
Church  today  than  has  ever  been  before  in  the  young  manhood  of  this 
Church.  I  am  grateful  for  the  associations  I  have  had  with  them.  I 
have  seen  their  splendid  achievements.  I  have  listened  to  their  faith 
and  their  confidence  in  the  gospel.  I  realize,  too,  that  they  are  living 
the  gospel  each  day.  I  am  impressed  with  their  cleanliness,  their  virtue, 
and  their  desires  to  magnify  their  priesthood  in  this  great  work. 

I  believe  today  that  greater  opportunity  awaits  the  young  men  in 
this  Church  than  has  ever  been  given  to  them  before  from  the  fact  that 
the  world  is  today  looking  for  men  who  can  carry  responsibility  in  the 
true  sense  that  the  priesthood  of  this  Church  teaches  us.  I  am  mindful 
of  the  fact  that  our  young  men  are  being  taught,  those  who  attend 
priesthood  meetings,  and  I  feel  inspired  to  say  that  no  greater  plan  has 
ever  been  given  to  us  as  a  priesthood  than  the  movement  that  was 
inaugurated  some  time  ago,  whereby  greater  development  can  come 
because  of  greater  opportunity  of  serving  the  Lord  by  magnifying  our 
callings. 

I  am  impressed  with  a  story  of  a  young  man  who,  when  he  stood 
in  the  pulpit  explaining  the  principle  of  repentance,  said  this : 

"If  I  steal  an  article,  God  requires  that  I  sincerely  repent,  that  I  restore 
that  which  I  have  stolen.  If  I  have  spoken  an  untruth,  God  requires  that  I  repent 
in  sincerity  and  restore  the  evil  that  I  have  spoken.  The  same  if  I  lose  my 
virtue,  God  requires  a  sincere  repentance  and  a  restoration," 


ELDER  J.  HOWARD  JENKINS 


103 


So  we  come  to  the  great  responsibility  resting  upon  us  as  a  Church 
in  these  days,  not  only  to  make  restitution  for  that  which  we  do  wrong, 
but  to  sincerely  repent ;  and  if  perchance  we  take  those  things  that  we 
are  unable  to  restore,  then  a  sincere  repentance  is  impossible.  And  so 
we  realize,  on  the  verge  of  manhood,  these  great  responsibilities  when 
we  are  initiated  into  this  priesthood. 

There  was  a  time  in  my  life  when  I  doubted  certain  principles  of  the 
gospel,  but  through  faith  I  can  say  to  you  today  that  I  believe  the 
gospel  to  be  true,  every  principle  of  it.  I  believe  in  the  divine  leadership 
of  the  men  who  stand  at  the  head  of  this  Church,  and  I  believe  that  God 
will  so  direct  its  affairs  that  it  will  fulfil  its  purposes,  and  that  his 
purposes,  in  the  end,  will  be  fulfilled  and  sustained  throughout  the 
earth. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  us  in  this  great  responsibility,  that  the  young 
manhood  of  this  Church  will  keep  themselves  sweet  and  clean,  that 
the  faith  of  their  fathers  may  come  unto  them,  and  that  the  responsi- 
bilities of  this  great  work  shall  be  borne  on  their  shoulders  when  the 
opportunity  comes  to  serve,  as  it  will.  To  this  end  I  pray  God's  bless- 
ings upon  this  Church  and  this  people,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  LORENZO  W.  ANDERSON 

Former  President  of  the  Norwegian  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  never  realized  such  a  sight  before, 
and  I  did  not  think  that  the  Lord  would  ever  give  me  the  privilege 
of  standing  here  in  this  tabernacle.  I  therefore  ask  him  that  he  will 
bless  me  with  his  Holy  Spirit,  that  the  few  words  I  may  speak  may 
be  under  its  direction. 

I  have  certainly  appreciated  this  morning's  conference.  The 
remarks  made  by  Brother  Ivins  were  remarks  that  I  have  desired  to 
hear,  and  if  Latter-day  Saints  are  faithful  they  need  have  no  fear  about 
the  future. 

God  gave  me  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  President  Grant's 
mission.  I  know  beyond  all  shadow  of  a  doubt  that  he  is  inspired  of 
God.  And  as  far  as  the  prophets  who  have  lived  in  the  past  are 
concerned,  they  were  prophets  unto  their  time ;  but  I  need  the  direction 
and  the  counsel  of  a  living  prophet,  just  as  much  as  they  did  in  times 
that  are  past.  Therefore  my  desire  is  that  I  may  heed  the  instructions 
and  counsels  which  the  present  prophet  gives,  for  I  feel  that  they  are  the 
ones  that  are  most  essential  to  me. 

I  enjoyed  my  work  in  the  land  of  Norway,  and  while  it  seems 
as  though  the  government  authorities  are  not  as  favorable  towards  us 
as  they  should  be,  I  feel  that  this  has  been  a  source  of  blessing  to  us, 
for  we  were  unable  to  reach  the  leading  men  of  the  nation  before. 
The  elders  must  register  when  they  leave  and  must  register  when  they 
enter  a  place,  and  through  this  means  we  are  enabled  to  present  unto 
the  officers  of  that  country  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel. 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Two  missionaries  were  sent  into  a  different  branch  to  begin  labor 
there.  The  police  would  not  permit  them  to  remain.  We  took  the 
matter  up  with  the  American  minister,  and  through  his  efforts  we  had 
a  visit  from  a  representative  of  the  State  Department.  This  repre- 
sentative called  at  the  office  and  made  all  kinds  of  inquiries  as  to  the 
morality  and  the  standing  of  the  young  men  who  had  been  appointed  to 
labor  there.  He  was  very  favorably  impressed,  and  we  had  the  privilege 
of  giving  him  a  copy  of  the  Book  of  Mormon — something  that  I  do 
not  see  how  we  could  have  gotten  to  the  State  Department  had  not 
a  representative  of  that  department  called  upon  us. 

We  desired  while  there  to  have  Boy  Scout  work,  M  Men  work  and 
Bee  Hive  work.  Another  elder  and  I  called  upon  the  secre- 
tary of  the  Norwegian  Scout  Association,  and  asked  for  the 
privilege  of  becoming  members  of  that  organization.  He  frankly 
told  us  that  Mormons,  Buddhists,  Mohammedans  and  Communists 
could  not  become  members  of  the  Scout  organization  of  Norway.  They 
would,  as  a  last  resort,  permit  Catholics,  but  we  were  not  permitted 
to  become  members.  Later  on  we  sent  a  written  application,  and  a  flat 
denial  came  back,  which  would  not  permit  us  to  become  members  of 
that  organization. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  that  the  time  is  near  when  many 
of  the  leading  people  in  the  land  of  Norway  will  accept  the  gospel. 
I  have  never  been  treated  with  greater  respect,  with  greater  courtesy, 
in  my  life,  than  I  was  by  those  people.  They  asked  me  many  questions 
relative  to  the  faith  of  our  people,  and  I  believe  a  good  impression  was 
made  upon  them ;  but  we  lack  missionaries  in  that  field. 

I  had  the  joy  of  being  up  among  the  Laplanders,  and  the  minister 
who  had  charge  of  a  colony  of  them  asked  me  not  to  do  any  work 
among  them.  He  said  that  the  Laplanders  were  so  simple-minded  they 
would  believe  almost  anything  that  was  told  them.  But  we  had  the 
privilege  of  leaving  with  them  a  Book  of  Mormon  and  a  lot  of  our 
literature,  and  I  believe  the  time  will  come  that  many  of  these  blue-eyed, 
fair-haired  people  will  seek  after  the  gospel. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  not  do  anything  that  will  bring  unto 
us  sorrow,  or  bring  unto  us  regret.  Let  us  keep  our  covenants  sacred. 
Let  us  uphold  and  sustain  those  of  our  brethren  who  are  called  to 
preside  over  us.  God  bless  them ;  God  bless  you,  that  we  may  all  be 
true  and  faithful,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

Standing  before  thft  great  congregation  of  people  in  this  great 
tabernacle,  and  standing  before  a  greater  congregation,  perhaps,  the 
people  that  may  be  listening  in  over  the  radio,  I  feel  the  responsibility 
of  my  position.  The  thought  that  was  in  my  mind,  and  the  prayer 
that  was  in  my  heart  when  I  was  called  by  President  Grant  to  appear 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON  105 


before  you,  was  this:  O  Lord,  help  me  to  glorify  thy  name,  through 
faith,  in  my  utterances  this  morning. 

DEPENDENCE  UPON  SPIRIT  OF  GOD 

As  I  was  coming  into  the  tabernacle  yesterday  forenoon  a  brother 
said  to  me:  "President  Clawson,  will  you  be  a  speaker  this  morning?" 
I  said  to  him:  "My  dear  brother,  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  and  other 
authorities  of  the  Church  have  no  notice  whatever,  at  these  general 
conferences,  as  to  whether  they  will  be  called  upon  to  speak  or  not; 
and  furthermore  in  speaking,  they  are  not  told  just  what  to  say. 
They  are  expected,  of  course,  to  depend  upon  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
to  inspire  them."  Now,  if  I  shall  speak  to  you  this  morning  by  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  you  will  be  edified,  but  if  I  shall  speak  to  you  by 
some  other  spirit  there  will  be  no  instruction.  So  I  invoke  His  Spirit, 
and  pray  that  it  may  be  upon  me  and  upon  this  congregation. 

THE  GOD  WE  WORSHIP 

We  are  here  as  a  worshiping  assembly.  The  God  that  we  wor- 
ship, my  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  is  a  God  of  love,  a  God  of 
mercy,  and  a  God  of  power.  The  God  that  we  worship  is  the  God 
of  the  Bible,  as  set  forth  in  King  James'  translation;  he  is  the  God 
of  Adam  and  Eve,  who  were  in  the  Garden  of  Eden;  the  God  of  the 
three  great  patriarchs,  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob;  the  God  of  Moses; 
the  God  of  Elijah  and  of  Isaiah,  Ezekiel  and  Jeremiah;  the  God 
of  Jesus  Christ  who  came  in  the  meridian  of  time ;  and  the  God  of  his 
apostles.  Furthermore,  the  God  that  we  worship  is  the  God  of  Joseph 
Smith,  the  modern  prophet. 

This  Holy  Being  that  I  speak  of  is  a  God  of  body,  parts  and 
passions,  as  clearly  and  definitely  described  in  holy  writ,  because  we  are 
told  that  man  is  in  the  image  and  likeness  of  God,  hence  God  is  in 
the  image  and  likeness  of  man.  Joseph  Smith  so  declared  him  to  be, 
for  he  saw  him  in  a  great  vision.  This  God  is  comprehensible.  He 
falls  under  the  senses.  There  is  something  substantial  about  him, 
something  that  you  can  easily  realize;  but  a  God  without  body,  parts 
and  passions,  I  take  it,  cannot  be  comprehended. 

A  GOD  OF  LOVE 

God  is  a  God  of  love.    Listen  to  these  words  by  St.  John: 

"Beloved,  let  us  love  one  another :  for  love  is  of  God ;  and  every  one  that 
loveth  is  born  of  God,  and  knoweth  God. 

"He  that  loveth  not,  knoweth  not  God ;  for  God  is  love." 

Now,  isn't  that  a  wonderful  statement,  that  we  cannot  even  know 
God  without  exercising  this  tremendous  principle  of  love?  He  is  love, 
and  if  we  shall  come  to  understand  him  and  comprehend  him,  it  must 
be  in  part  through  this  glorious  attribute. 

Jesus  said  to  his  disciples : 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Love  one  another,  and  if  you  love  me  ye  will  keep  my  commandments. 
If  you  love  not  one  another  you  are  not  my  disciples." 

So  that  love  exercised  a  mighty  influence  in  the  life  and  work  ol 
the  Savior  and  in  that  of  his  disciples.  , 

The  greatest  manifestation  of  the  love  of  God,  I  take  it,  relates  to 
the  atonement,  for  we  are  told,  in  the  gospel  of  St.  John : 

"God  so  loved  the  world,  that  he  gave  his  only  begotten  Son,  that  whosoever 
believeth  in  him  should  not  perish,  but  have  everlasting  life. 

"For  God  sent  not  his  Son  into  the  world  to  condemn  the  world ;  but  that  the 
world  through  him  might  be  saved." 

It  seems  to  me  this  was  a  very  wonderful  expression  of  God's  love 
for  the  children  of  men. 

THE  FAMILY  OF  GOD 

We  understand,  from  the  scriptures,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  our  elder 
brother.  If  that  be  the  case  then  we  are  his  younger  brothers  and 
younger  sisters ;  we  belonged  to  a  great  family  before  we  came  into  the 
world.  It  was  the  family  of  God,  for  Jesus  said :  "When  you  pray,  say 
our  Father  which  art  in  heaven. Our  Father  is  there,  and  we  believe 
that  we  have  a  mother  there.  That  thought  was  beautifully  expressed 
in  the  hymn  that  the  choir  sang  this  morning.  I  think  you  will 
agree  with  me  that  it  is  a  very  wonderful  thought  indeed.  At  least  it 
is  interesting  and  worthy  of  profound  consideration. 

"I  had  learned  to  call  thee  Father, 
Through  thy  spirit  from  on  high, 
But  until  the  key  of  knowledge 
Was  restored,  I  knew  not  why. 

"In  the  heavens  are  parents  single? 
No,  the  thought  makes  reason  stare. 
Truth  is  reason.    Truth  eternal 
Tells  me  I've  a  mother  there." 

To  say  the  least,  if  we  are  led  to  believe  that  we  have  a  Father 
in  heaven,  I  think  we  are  justified  in  believing  that  we  have  a  Mother 
there.   Who  ever  heard  of  a  father  where  there  was  no  mother? 

All  this  means  that  in  heaven  from  whence  we  came  we  were  the 
children  of  our  Father,  his  children  in  spirit.  This  was  prior  to  the 
time  we  came  down  to  the  earth  and  took  upon  ourselves  these  mortal 
bodies.    Think  of  it,  my  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends ! 

TREMENDOUS  SACRIFICES 

Surely  it  was  a  tremendous  sacrifice  the  Lord  in  heaven  made, 
when  he  gave  his  only  begotten  Son  to  die  for  the  sins  of  the  world, 
that  you  and  I  might  be  redeemed,  that  all  the  world  who  would  receive 
the  truth  might  be  saved  in  the  presence  of  God. 

Abraham  was  called  upon  to  make  a  similar  offering,  in  a  lesser 
degree,  when  he  was  told  to  offer  up  his  son  Isaac  as  a  sacrifice  unto 


President  rudger  Claw  son 


107 


God.  It  must  have  been  a  most  terrific  ordeal.  How  could  he  bear  it  ? 
Well,  we  don't  know  just  how  he  could  bear  it,  but  we  know  that  he 
did  bear  it,  and  we  know  that  he  was  obedient  and  answered  the 
commandment  and  undertook  to  carry  it  out  because  the  Lord  had 
.demanded  it  of  him.  The  evident  purpose  of  it  was  to  test  his  faith, 
to  try  his  very  soul. 

A  GOD  OF  MERCY 

God  is  a  God  of  mercy.    We  are  told  in  the  Book  of  Exodus : 

"And  the  Lord  passed  by  before  Moses,  and  proclaimed,  The  Lord,  the 
Lord  God,  merciful  and  gracious,  longsuffering,  and  abundant  in  goodness  and 
truth." 

Then  in  a  psalm: 

"The  Lord  is  merciful  and  gracious,  slow  to  anger,  and  plenteous  in  mercy." 

Then  again :  ' 

"But  the  mercy  of  the  Lord  is  from  everlasting  to  everlasting  upon  them 
that  fear  him,  and  his  righteousness  unto  children's  children; 

"To  such  as  keep  his  covenants,  and  to  those  who  remember  his  command- 
ments to  do  them." 

Have  you  remarked,  as  I  read  this  scripture,  that  the  principle 
of  mercy  that  is  in  God,  our  Creator,  is  everlasting  in  its  character? 
It  is  a  great  attribute  of  his  character.  It  was  so  before  the  world 
was  organized  and  projected  into  existence.  It  is  a  great  and  glorious 
virtue  in  every  man  and  woman  who  exercises  it,  and  it  will  ever 
continue  to  be  so  in  worlds  without  end.  I  repeat  God  is  merciful,  slow 
to  anger,  plenteous  in  mercy. 

How  is  it  with  us,  brethren  and  sisters?  Are  we  merciful?  Are  we 
slow  to  anger,  or  do  we  give  way  sometimes  to  our  feelings,  and  speak 
words  of  bitterness  and  words  of  anger,  that  we  repent  of  later  ? 

It  seems  to  me  if  we  are  to  become  like  our  Heavenly  Father — 
and  that  is  most  desirable — then  we  must  exercise  these  glorious 
virtues, — the  power  of  love,  the  power  of  mercy. 

A  GOD  OF  POWER 

Now  remember  also  that  the  God  we  worship  is  a  God  of  power. 
There  are  many  examples  of  this.  We  have  seen  it  in  our  own  lives. 
We  have  become  cognizant  of  it  in  our  own  experiences.  There  are 
many  examples  in  holy  writ.    Let  me  give  you  one  briefly. 

The  Holy  Bible  tells  us  that  upon  one  occasion  in  ancient  times 
Sennacherib,  the  king  of  Assyria,  came  up  against  Hezekiah,  the  king 
of  Judah.  He  came  up  with  his  captains  and  a  great  army.  His 
purpose  was  to  take  possession  of  the  fenced  cities  of  Judah,  and  to 
war  against  the  children  of  Israel.  Now,  mark  you,  the  difference 
between  this  heathen  king  and  Hezekiah,  the  king  of  Judah,  a  servant 
of  the  Lord. 

Sennacherib  came  in  the  pride  of  his  heart  and  in  an  arrogant 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


boastful  manner.  He  notified  Hezekiah  that  he  was  coming,  and  warned 
him  to  be  ready  to  surrender. 

KING  HEZEKIAH'S  FAITH 

What  was  the  attitude  of  Hezekiah,  a  man  of  God,  a  man  of  faith?. 
Did  he  sit  down  and  cross  his  hands  and  wait  for  the  Lord- to  come 
and  deliver  him  and  his  people?  No,  he  didn't.  He  believed  the  Lord 
could  do  it.  He  believed  the  Lord  would  do  it,  but  he  at  once  instituted 
proceedings  of  defense.  He  gathered  his  people  together.  The  record 
says  he  strengthened  himself.  He  built  up  all  the  walls  that  were  broken 
down  and  raised  them  up  to  the  towers,  and  repaired  Millo  in  the  city 
of  David,  and  made  darts  and  shields  in  abundance ;  and  he  set  captains 
of  war  over  the  people,  and  gathered  them  together  to  him  in  the 
street  of  the  gate  of  the  city,  and  spoke  comfortably  to  them,  saying: 

"Be  strong  and  courageous.  Be  not  afraid  nor  dismayed  for  the  king 
of  Assyria,  nor  for  all  the  multitude  that  is  with  him :  for*  there  be  more  with  us 
than  with  him: 

"With  him  is  an  arm  of  flesh ;  but  with  us  is  the  Lord  our  God  to  help  us, 
and  to  fight  our  battles." 

And  the  people  rested  themselves  upon  the  words  of  Hezekiah, 
king  of  Judah.  Mark  it.  The  people  were  composed,  and  their 
feelings  were  calmed  and  they  rested  upon  the  words  of  Hezekiah, 
after  preparing  for  defense.  Hezekiah  realized  that  faith  without 
works  is  dead,  being  alone. 

Sennacherib's  boastfulness 

Soon  after  came  the  great  heathen  king.  He  made  light  of  the 
God  of  Hezekiah,  held  him  up  to  ridicule,  reviled  him,  and  said,  in 
substance,  to  Hezekiah: 

"Thinkest  thou  that  thy  God  will  deliver  thee  from  my  power?  Why,  all 
the  gods  of  the  heathens  in  the  land  with  whom  I  have  warred  have  submitted  to 
my  rule  and  to  my  authority,  and  think  not  that  the  God  of  Israel,  or  your  God, 
will  deliver  you." 

And  his  servants  spake  yet  more  against  the  Lord  God,  and  against 
his  servant  Hezekiah.  He  also  wrote'  letters  to  rail  on  the  Lord  God  of 
Israel  and  to  speak  against  him,  saying: 

"As  the  gods  of  the  nations  of  other  lands  have  not  delivered  their  people 
out  of  mine  hand,  so  shall  not  the  god  of  Hezekiah  deliver  his  people  out  of 
mine  hand." 

Then  they  cried  with  a  loud  voice  to  the  people  of  Jerusalem  that 
were  on  the  walls,  to  affright  them  and  to  trouble  them,  that  they  might 
take  the  city. 

judah's  deliverance 
Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  under  those  distressing  circumstances 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON  109 


what  did  Hezekiah  do  ?  After  he  had  prepared  to  defend  his  country 
and  his  liberty  he  prayed  to  the  Lord,  and  "for  this  cause  Hezekiah, 
the  king,  and  the  prophet  Isaiah,  the  son  of  Amos,  prayed  and  cried 
to  heaven."  Don't  you  think,  after  he  had  taken  every  means  to 
defend  himself  and  his  people,  that  that  was  the  proper  time  and  a  good 
time  to  cry  unto  the  Lord,  and  to  cry  unto  him  in  faith?  What  was 
the  answer  ?  Well,  this  is  what  it  was : 

"Thus  saith  the  Lord  concerning  the  king  of  Assyria.  He  shall  not  come 
into  this  city,  nor  shoot  an  arrow  there,  nor  come  before  it  with  shield,  nor  cast 
a  bank  against  it. 

"By  the  way  that  he  came,  by  the  same  shall  he  return^  and  shall  not  come 
into  this  city,  saith  the  Lord. 

"For  I  will  defend  this  city,  to  save  it,  for  mine  own  sake,  and  for  my 
servant  David's  sake. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  night,  that  the  angel  of  the  Lord  went  out,  and 
smote  in  the  camp  of  the  Assyrians  an  hundred  fourscore  and  five  thousand." 

Think  of  it — one  hundred  and  eighty-five  thousand — slain  by  the 
Angel  of  God  in  one  night. 

"So  Sennacherib,  king  of  Assyria,  departed,  and  went  and  returned,  and 
dwelt  at  Nineveh." 

OUR  PROTECTION 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  conclusion  let  me  say  to  you,  with 
this  wonderful  example  before  us,  and  other  things  that  we  are  familiar 
with,  if  we  will  keep  the  commandments  of  God  and  serve  him,  as 
Hezekiah  served  him,  he  will  reach  forth  his  powerful  arm  and  lift 
us  up  and  strengthen  us  and  deliver  us  from  our  enemies,  just  as  he 
has  done  up  to  this  very  moment.  Never,  in  all  the  history  of  this 
people,  covering  a  hundred  years,  were  the  Latter-day  Saints  more 
powerful,  more  influential  and  more  numerous  than  they  are  today. 
I  say  to  you  great  is  their  faith,  and  there  is  power  in  faith. 

God  bless  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ALMA  G.  BURTON 

Former  President  of  the  Tahitian  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  assure  you  that  I  feel  weak  in  occupying 
this  position ;  and  I,  like  the  others  who  have  gone  before  me,  ask  that 
I  may  have  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers  while  I  stand  here. 

While  sitting  in  my  seat,  and  looking  into  the  faces  of  these  men 
who  are  on  the  stand,  looking  over  this  vast  audience  of  saints,  listening 
to  the  very  remarkable,  inspiring,  and  interesting  testimonies  that  have 
been  borne,  I  experienced  a  most  peculiar  feeling  of  comparison,  a 
feeling  that  was  mingled  with  sympathy  and  with  thanksgiving. 

My  thoughts  went  back  to  the  last  annual  conference  of  the 
Tahitian  Mission,  at  which  I  presided.  The  saints  were  there  gathered 
from  many  islands  of  the  sea,  some  of  them  coming  hundreds  of  miles, 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  some  even  a  thousand  miles  to  attend  that  conference.  They  were 
there  for  the  same  purpose  that  we  are  assembled  here  today,  to  receive 
instruction,  admonition  and  inspiration  in  their  work  in  the  gospel. 
They  do  not  have  the  opportunity  of  listening  first-handed  to  our 
beloved  President  of  today,  and  to  the  presiding  authorities,  but  they 
are  trying  in  their  humble  way  to  fulfil  their  duties,  to  magnify  their 
callings  and  their  priesthood.  As  I  sat  here  with  joy  in  my  heart  for  the 
many  good  things  that  have  been  told  to  us,  my  sympathy  went  out 
to  those  people,  to  that  portion  of  the  house  of  Israel  who  are  not  so 
fortunate  as  we  who  can  assemble  in  this  great  building  and  listen  to 
the  words  of  God. 

I  bring  to  you  today,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  greetings  from  the 
people  of  the  Tahitian  Mission.  I  trust  there  is  in  your  hearts  a  prayer 
for  their  success  as  well  as  the  success  of  the  saints  who  are  scattered 
throughout  the  different  missions  of  the  world.  It  is  with  pleasure  that 
I  report  to  you  that  with  the  very  humble  and  faithful  efforts  of  our 
elders,  we  are  making  good  headway  in  that  mission.  During  the 
past  three  years  we  have  had  an  increase  in  baptisms  of  over  a  hundred 
per  cent  each  year.  Our  tithes  have  shown  a  great  increase.  We  have 
also  had  an  increase  in  attendance  at  sacrament  meetings  and  in  faith- 
fulness to  other  duties  throughout  the  Church. 

Our  principal  efforts,  however,  have  been  with  the  young  people. 
We  have  been  successful  in  organizing  Improvement  Associations  in 
many  of  the  different  branches  of  the  Tahitian  Mission.  We  have 
realized  the  importance  of  giving  to  these  young  people  a  knowledge 
of  the  gospel,  that  they,  in  turn,  may  fill  the  positions  occupied  once 
by  their  fathers  and  the  older  saints  who  have  passed  on  before  them. 

The  condition  of  the  people  in  general  is  good.  We  find  that 
they  are  striving  to  pay  an  honest  tithing.  They  are  striving  to  live 
the  gospel.  They  are  striving  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God 
and  to  live  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  that  they  may  grow  nearer  and  nearer 
to  God.  We  have  not  had  the  privilege  of  preaching  the  gospel  by 
radio,  but  we  do  have  a  publication  of  large  circulation,  and  through 
that  means  have  been  able  to  reach  many  persons  and  homes  we  could 
not  otherwise  have  reached. 

The  most  effective  method  of  preaching  the  gospel  throughout  the 
islands  is  by  personal  contact.  Perhaps  many  of  you  do  not  know  that 
the  Tahitian  Mission  includes  the  entire  group  of  the  Society  Islands — 
a  great  number  of  islands  scattered  over  a  vast  expanse  of  water, — 
and  as  our  elders  travel  to  and  fro  to  the  different  branches  they  live 
with  the  native  people,  they  come  in  personal  contact  with  them,  and 
they  teach  them  how  to  live  family  life,  hbw  to  pray,  how  to  live  near 
to  God,  how  to  magnify  their  offices  and  callings  in  the  Church. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  found  in  my  experience  that  one 
of  the  most  encouraging  and  inspiring  things  for  an  elder  is  to  have 
a  letter  from  home  that  encourages  him  in  performing  his  duty,  in 
living  nearer  to  God. 

In  the  remarks  in  our  priesthood  meeting  last  evening  the  fathers 


ELDER  ALMA  G.  BURTON 


111 


were  asked  to  be  more  chummy  with  their  sons.  I  want  to  take  this 
opportunity 'to  ask  the  fathers  and  mothers  not  to  fail  to  put  in  their 
letters  to  the  boys  encouragement  to  live  near  to  God,  and  to  fulfil 
faithfully  their  duties.  It  will  go  a  long  ways  in  helping  the  boys  in  our 
mission,  and  I  think  it  will  in  all  the  missions  of  the  world. 

I  am  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  have  had  the  op- 
portunity of  going  into  the  world  to  preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
I  am  thankful  for  the  opportunity  I  have  had  of  serving  with  your 
sons  and  your  daughters  who  are  in  the  Tahitian  Mission.  I  love  them. 
I  honor  them  for  the  courage  and  faithfulness  they  have  shown  in 
carrying  the  gospel  message,  the  message  of  salvation,  to  that  people. 
I  have  traveled  with  the  boys  on  the  sea.  We  have  been  in  storms. 
We  have  been  in  hard  circumstances,  and  I  want  to  tell  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  I  am  not  a  doubter  regarding  the  youth  of  Zion.  I  think 
that  the  boys  of  today  have  just  as  much  courage  as  those  of  other 
days  have  had.  I  have  seen  the  boys  when  they  had  to  meet  situations, 
when  it  took  men  of  courage  to  meet  those  situations,  and  our  boys 
in  the  islands  of  the  sea,  and  no  doubt  throughout  all  the  other  missions 
of  the  world,  are  successfully  handling  those  situations  every  day. 

I  bear  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  am  thankful 
that  I  am  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God, 
and  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  restored  to  the  earth 
in  the  latter  days.  I  know  that  the  power  of  the  priesthood  has  again 
been  given  to  us,  and  is  operative  on  the  earth  in  this  last  dispensation ; 
and  I  know  that  the  same  power  of  the  priesthood  is  operative  out  in 
the  mission  field  as  is  operative  here  in  Zion. 

I  bear  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  know  that 
President  Grant  is  a  prophet  of  God,  called  to  preside  over  the  Church 
in  this  particular  time.  I  am  thankful  for  the  association  I  have  had 
with  the  President  and  with  the  presiding  authorities,  while  laboring  in 
the  mission  field,  which  has  been  mostly  through  letters.  I  have  received 
some  very  fine  encouragement,  and  I  have  learned  to  love  them  and 
honor  them  as  men  who  are  called  of  God.  I  trust  that  I  may  live 
true  to  the  covenants  which  I  have  made  in  this  great  Church. 

In  closing  I  wish  to  call  attention  to  remarks  that  Paul,  the  great 
apostle  of  old,  who  knew  Jesus  Christ,  made.    He  said : 

"Woe  is  unto  me  if  I  preach  not  the  gospel." 

Do  we  realize  the  importance  of  the  message  which  is  left  for  us  to 
carry  throughout  the  world  in  this  dispensation?  Paul  realized  it  in  his 
time,  and  he  said  : 

"I  became  as  a  Jew,  that  I  might  gain  the  Jews ;  to  them  that  are  under  the 
law,  as  under  the  law,  that  I  might  gain  them  that  are  under  the  law ; 

"To  them  that  are  without  law,  as  without  law,  *  *  *  that  I  might 
gain  them  that  are  without  law." 

That  is  the  thing  that  we  are  trying  to  do  in  the  mission  field. 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


We  are  trying  to  win  the  people  over,  to  give  to  them  the  message  that 
the  gospel  has  for  them.  The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  teaches  us  to  love  the  Lord  with  all  our  heart,  and  our  neighbor 
as  ourselves.  How  can  we  love  our  neighbors  as  ourselves,  except 
to  give  unto  them  the  happiness  and  the  joy  which  comes  to  us  through 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  has  been  given  to  us  in  these  latter 
days?  I  trust  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us  all  to  that  end,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  choir  rendered  the  anthem  "Inflammatus,"  solo  part  by  Sister 
Laurinda  P.  Brewerton. 

Elder  Ralph  B.  Keeler,  President  of  the  Juarez  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  closing  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at  2 
o'clock  p.  m. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  hymn,  "Praise  to  the  Man  who  Communed  with  Jehovah" 
was  sung  by  the  choir  and  congregation. 

Elder  James  L.  Nielsen,  President  of  the  Moroni  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

A  sextette,  assisted  by  the  choir,  rendered  the  anthem,  "The 
Heavens  are  Telling." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  have  a  telegram  from  Brother  James  L.  Dunford,  announcing 
that  he  and  others  are  enjoying  the  conference  proceedings  as  they  are 
received  by  radio  at  Paris,  Idaho. 

I  have  a  telegram  from  the  Idaho  Falls  stake  presidency  an- 
nouncing the  death  of  Patriarch  Robert  L.  Bybee,  who  passed  away 
yesterday  at  the  age  of  ninety-one  years.  He  was  one  of  the  early 
oioneers.    The  funeral  will  be  held  Monday. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Temple  Block 

Mission. 

I  have  enjoyed  this  conference.  It  has  given  us  the  spirit  of  the 
Psalmist  when  he  exclaimed:  "Unto  thee,  O  Lord,  do  I  lift  up  my 
soul." 

Reference  has  been  made  to  the  work  of  the  missionaries  on  this 
block.     This  is  an  important  mission,  and  the  twenty  brethren  and 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


113 


sisters,  who  come  to  help  us  meet  the  strangers  within  our  gates,  are 
doing  a  fine  work — a  work  that  is  noble  and  true.  They  meet  all 
people  with  a  Christian-like  attitude  of  mind.  They  love  people,  and 
that  is  why  the  tourists  see  that  our  message  is  one  of  love.  If  we 
can  always  keep  here  the  spirit  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord  as  expressed 
by  the  beloved  John:  "God  so  loved  us,  we  ought  also  to  love  one 
another,"  then  people  will  partake  of  the  spirit  of  truth. 

We  receive  many  letters  expressive  of  the  gatitude  of  the  stran- 
gers who  come  to  visit  us.  A  famous  Japanese  educator  recently  spoke 
of  our  hospitality,  and  among  the  things  he  said  was  that  on  these 
grounds  he  felt  the  spirit  of  Christ.  I  am  very  thankful  for  this ;  and 
very  grateful  that  we  have  brethren  and  sisters  working  here  who 
know  the  true  service  of  the  Master. 

We  may  surely  say  that  it  is  to  a  large  extent  through  such  men 
and  women  that  the  Spirit  of  God  kindles  the  fire  of  divine  love  and 
the  longing  for  divine  knowledge  in  the  hearts  of  others. 

Mormonism  recognizes  that  in  this  great  age  of  new  thought  and 
progress,  the  power  of  the  Divine  is  in  the  living  present.  The  relig- 
ion of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord  gives  us  power  to  distinguish  between 
the  true  and  the  false ;  the  eternal  and  the  temporal ;  spiritual  substance 
and  human  opinion.  Our  great  mission  is  to  advocate  an  understand- 
ing between  religion  and  the  civilization  of  to-day ;  and  we  must  never 
fear  to  advocate  the  four  great  fundamentals  of  religion  that  we  solemn- 
ly believe  to  be  true.  These  are  as  follows : 

First,  "God  created  man  in  his  own  image,  in  the  image  of  God 
created  he  him."  We  are  gods  in  embyro.  The  human  mind  is  in- 
finite in  its  power  to  progress.  In  one  of  the  finest  passages  of  our 
great  world-poet  Shakespeare,  he  gives  us  his  conception  of  the  grand- 
eur of  the  human  mind  when  he  writes : 

"What  a  piece  of  work  is  man!  How  noble  in  reason!  How  infinite  in 
faculty !  In  form  and  moving,  how  express  and  admirable !  In  action  how  like 
an  angel !    In  apprehension  how  like  a  god  I" 

The  second  point  that  is  fundamental  to  Mormonism  is  that  Jesus 
Christ  died  for  you  and  me.  He  atoned  for  the  sins  of  the  world  and 
gave  us  eternal  life.  In  the  Book  of  Mormon  we  have  these  words  of 
the  prophet  Helaman: 

"Therefore,  my  sons,  I  would  that  ye  should  do  that  which  is  good,  that 
it  may  be  said  of  you,  and  also  written,  even  as  it  has  been  said  and  written 
of  them. 

"And  now  my  sons,  behold  I  have  somewhat  more  to  desire  of  you,  which 
desire  is.  that  ye  may  not  do  these  things  that  ye  may  boast,  but  that  ye  may  do 
these  things  to  lay  up  for  yourselves  a  treasure  in  heaven,  yea,  which  is  eternal, 
and  which  fadeth  not  away ;  yea,  that  ye  may  have  that  precious  gift  of  eternal 
life,  which  we  have  reason  to  suppose  hath  been  given  to  our  fathers. 

"O  remember,  remember,  my  sons,  the  words  which  king  Benjamin  spake 
unto  his  people;  yea,  remember  that  there  is  no  other  way  nor  means  whereby 
man  can  be  saved,  only  through  the  atoning  blood  of  Jesus  Christ,  who  shall 
come;  yea,  remember  that  he  cometh  to  redeem  the  world. 

"And  remember  also  the  words  which  Amulek  spake  unto  Zeezrom,  in  the 
city  of  Ammonihah ;  for  he  eaid  unto  him  that  the  Lord  surely  should  come  to 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


redeem  his  people,  but  that  he  should  not  come  to  redeem  them  in  their  sins, 
but  to  redeem  them  from  their  sins. 

"And  he  hath  power  given  unto  him  from  the  Father  to  redeem  them  from 
their  sins  because  of  repentance;  therefore  he  hath  sent  his  angels  to  declare 
the  tidings  of  the  conditions  of  repentance,  which  bringeth  unto  the  power  of 
the  Redeemer,  unto  the  salvation  of  their  souls. 

"And  now,  my  sons,  remember,  remember  that  it  is  upon  the  rock  of  our 
Redeemer,  who  is  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  that  ye  must  build  your  foundation." 

Through  Joseph  Smith,  the  priesthood  has  been  restored  in  this 
day  for  man's  salvation.  This  gives  the  Christian  religion  a  new  life 
force,  and  it  becomes  a  demonstration  in  this  modern  day  of  divine  life. 
It  calls  forth  new  activities  in  man,  and  is  in  keeping  with  the  general 
development  of  humanity.  We  are  expressing  a  divine — a  very  divine 
and  vital  truth — when  we  sav  that  the  priesthood  of  God  was  restored 
in  this  age  by  John  the  Baptist  and  Peter,  James  and  John.  Therefore 
our  task  is  a  great  one,  for  mankind  must  come  to  think  of  religion  other- 
wise than  they  think  of  it  today.  We  may  feel  then  with  the  great  writer 
Fichte :  'We  should  rejoice  at  the  sight  of  that  vast  field  which  we  are 
called  to  cultivate,  and  rejoice  that  we  feel  strength  within  us,  and  that 
our  task  is  endless." 

Then  there  is  the  fourth  great  point  of  the  Christian  religion 
that  "The  Lord  God  hath  prepared  his  throne  in  the  heavens ;  and  his 
kingdom  ruleth  over  all."  We  are  working  for  the  establishment 
of  God's  kingdom  upon  the  earth.  No  nobler  purpose  could  be  in  the 
hearts  of  men ;  no  greater  motive  could  ever  move  them.  With  these 
principles,  we  shall  be  able  to  work  out  the  highest  principles  of  mo- 
rality, for  faith  in  God  and  his  work  is  the  true  basis  of  morality. 

I  think  we  are  held  responsible  for  a  rich  creative  work.  One  may 
call  the  principles  I  have  cited  old  or  new  as  one  will.  The  question 
is  whether  they  are  true  or  not.  I  think  that  such  ideas  and  ideals 
have  always  been  common  to  man  and  have  been  expressed  in  different 
ways.  There  are  today  far  more  forces  working — consciously  and 
unconsciously— towards  the  goal  of  the  Kingdom  than  we  realize. 
These  principles  are  not  gained  from  books  nor  from  experience,  but 
from  our  contact  with  the  Spirit  of  God  which  Jesus  taught  us  could 
be  done.  So  the  simple  truth  of  God's  kingdom  and  man's  divinity 
remain  forever  and  ever. 

In  closing,  let  me  read  to  you  the  words  of  Adolf  Harnak,  one  of 
the  world's  great  scholars: 

"It  is  religion,  the  love  of  God  and  neighbor  which  gives  life  mean- 
ing ;  knowledge  cannot  do  it  alone.  Pure  knowledge  is  a  glorious  thing, 
and  woe  to  the  man  who  holds  it  light  or  blunts  his  sense  for  it.  But 
to  the  question,  Whence 'whither,  and  to  what  purpose?  It  gives  an 
answer  today  as  little  as  it  did  two  or  three  thousand  years  ago.  It 
does  indeed  instruct  us  in  facts ;  it  detects  inconsistences ;  it  likens 
phenomena;  it  corrects  the  deceptions  of  sense  and  idea.  But  where 
and  how  the  curve  of  the  world  and  the  curve  of  our  own  life  begin, 
and  whither  this  curve  leads,  knowledge  does  not  tell  us.  But  if  with  a 
steady  will  we  affirrri  the  forces  and  the  standards  which  on  the  sum- 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


115 


mits  of  our  inner  life  shine  out  as  our  highest  good,  nay  as  our  real 
self ;  if  we  are  earnest  and  courageous  enough  to  accept  them  as  the 
great  reality  and  direct  our  lives  by  them ;  and  if  we  then  look  at  the 
course  of  mankind's  history,  follow  its  upward  development,  and  search 
in  strenuous  and  patient  service,  for  the  communion  of  minds  in  it,  we 
shall  not  faint  in  weariness  and  despair,  but  become  certain  of  God, 
whom  Jesus  Christ  called  the  Father  and  who  is  also  our  Father." 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

This  has  been  a  most  glorious  conference.  I  have  been  coming 
to  this  tabernacle  for  sixty  years.  In  the  year  1869  I  sang  with  a 
choir  from  Brigham  City,  in  this  tabernacle.  Never  in  all  that  sixty- 
years  have  I  seen  such  a  great  multitude  of  people  in  this  building  and 
outside  on  this  block  as  there  is  today.    Zion  is  growing. 

We  have  every  reason  to  rejoice  in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  We  have 
been  blessed  during  this  conference  with  splendid  weather.  As  a  matter 
of  fact  we  have  a  great  deal  of  good  weather  at  conference  time,  even 
if  it  is  the  stormy  period  of  the  year.  But  how  beautiful  this  day 
and  the  two  days  preceding  it.  Could  you  find  anywhere  else  all 
the  world,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  such  a  delightful  country  to  live 
in,  with  this  rarefied  atmosphere — three  quarters  of  a  mile  above  the  sea 
level,  and  yet  breathing  salt  sea  air?  No  such  atmospheric  combination 
exists  elsewhere  on  the  known  globe,  because  if  you  get  salt  air  any- 
where else  in  the  world  you  must  go  to  sea  level.  So  here  we  have  a 
most  marvelous  combination  which  is  best  for  vegetable  life,  for  animal 
life,  and  for  human  life,  making  it  the  best  country  in  all  the  world. 
That  which  was  a  desert  and  a  wilderness  eighty-three  years  ago, 
behold  what  the  Lord  has  done! 

this  is  ZION 

The  people  have  been  blessed  of  the  Lord  in  very  deed.  This 
city  is  a  marvel  of  beauty  all  through  the  summer.  As  I  ride  around 
this  city,  I  gaze  at  it  with  wonder,  with  admiration.  I  have  said  in 
my  heart  a  hundred  times,  where  in  all  the  world  is  there  a  more  beauti- 
ful place  than  this?  Beautiful  indeed,  beautiful  for  situation,  is  Zion. 
This  is  Zion  here  in  these  mountains.  Zion  in  the  largest  sense  is 
perhaps  North  and  South  America.  Zion  is  in  Jackson  County,  as  we 
heard  this  morning,  but  here  also  is  the  Zion  of  our  God,  the  mountain  of 
the  Lord's  house,  as  President  Ivins  read  from  the  prophecy  of  Isaiah, 
which  I  will  repeat,  for  it  is  good  to  hear :  "And  it  shall  come  to 
pass  in  the  last  days  that  the  mountain  of  the  Lord's  house" — I  take 
that  to  mean  the  headquarters,  the  chief  part  of  it  though  not  all 
of  the  Lord's  house,  for  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  First  Nephi,  14th 
cnapter,  you  can  read  that  the  saints  of  God  should  be  scattered  upon  all 
the  face  of  the  earth ;  but  the  biggest  end  of  it,  as  we  may  phrase  it, 
the  "mountain"  of  the  Lord's  house  "shall  be  established  in  the  top 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  mountains."  And  here  it  is;  here  we  are;  and  the  works  that 
we  have  produced,  I  think,  are  good,  they  are  constructive.  What 
Mormonism  has  done  is  a  credit. 

This  building,  built  here  before  there  was  any  railroad  within 
many  hundred  miles  of  here,  was  a  marvel  at  the  time,  is  a  marvel 
now.  That  temple — is  it  not  splendid?  Whether  you  believe  in  the 
doctrines  of  our  faith  or  not  you  must  admit  that  as  builders,  as  a 
constructive  people,  a  people  who  do  things  and  do  them  right,  we 
are  entitled  to  some  credit.  You  can  see  that  in  a  material  way  our 
works  are  good,  are  they  not?  No  sane  man,  unless  prejudice  has 
blinded  him — and  then  he  isn't  sane — could  say  otherwise.  The  works 
speak  for  themselves;  and  the  doctrine  of  the  Church,  the  faith  of 
the  people,  has  produced  this  kind  of  works.  Therefore  that  which 
produces  these  good  things  must,  of  necessity,  -  be  good  itself,  for  an 
impure  fountain  will  not  send  forth  pure  water.  The  tree  is  known  by 
its  fruit.  Look  at  this  block.  Where  will  you  find  anything  prettier 
in  the  world  than  this  Temple  block,  kept  up  at  the  expense  of  the 
Church?  We  don't  ask  anybody  to  help  us  pay  the  expense.  The 
Church  pays  it.  Your  tithes  help  to  pay  it,  and  it  is  a  good  work. 
Hundreds  of  thousands  of  people  every  year  come  here  with  a  feeling 
in  th%ir  hearts,  and  say,  "Won't  you  please  tell  us  something  about 
your  religion?"  They  come  and  ask  for  it.  Why,  here  is  the  chance 
for  the  greatest  missionary  service  in  all  the  world.  I  don't  think 
we  quite  appreciate  the  opportunity  that  we  have  here.  And  the  men 
and  women  who  have  served  here,  and  are  serving,  we  owe  them  our 
thanks  for  the  good  work  that  they  are  doing — men  like  Brother  Joseph 
Peery,  who  has  given  so  many  years  of  service  free — in  fact,  everything 
here  is  free.  These  organ  recitals  every  day — free.  There  isn't  some- 
body standing  around  at  every  corner  with  a  hat  or  a  tin  cup  to  take 
your  money,  or  to  beg  for  money.  I  have  traveled  over  the  world. 
You  missionaries,  you  who  are  here  by  the  hundreds,  you  know  what 
you  find  in  the  world.  It  is  pay,  pay,  pay.  Well,  here  it  is  free,  free, 
free ;  free  organ  recitals,  free  choir.  I  want  to  thank  Brother  Anthony 
Lund  and  the  choir  for  their  splendid  work.  They  come  here  Monday 
afternoons  at  4  o'clock,  and  if  you  will  turn  on  your  radio  you  will 
hear  this  wonderful  choir.  It  is  heard  all  over  the  United  States. 
We  have  had  letters  from  Long  Island,  from  New  York,  from  Wash- 
ington, from  all  around  the  surrounding  country:  "We  heard  the 
choir,  we  heard  the  organ,  and  oh,  it  was  so  good."  That  is  all  free. 
I  want  to  thank  those  who  employ  the  members  of  the  choir,  the 
merchants  and  others,  who  release  them  long  enough  to  come  here 
for  a  half  hour  on  Mondays  and  sing,  and  do  a  good  missionary  work. 
It  is  all  free,,  and  it  is  different  from  anything  else5  in  the  world.  I 
am  proud  of  it.   I  am  proud  of  what  has  been  accomplished. 

A   POOR   MAN'S  CHURCH 

This  Church  is  just  what  the  Lord  intended  it  to  be — a  poor 
man's  church.    Of  course,  it  is  also  for  the  rich,  if  the  rich  choose 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  IV.  NIBLEY  117 


to  come;  but  it  has  been  built  up  by  the  poor.  That  was  one  of  the 
signs  that  the  Savior  gave.  When  John  was  in  prison  and  probably 
quite  discouraged,  he  sent  one  or  two  of  his  disciples  to  Jesus,  asking 
this  question :  "Art  thou  he  that  was  to  come,  or  look  we  for  another  ?" 
And  Jesus  said  to  those  two :  "You  go  back  and  tell  John  the  sick  are 
healed,  the  lame  are  made  to  walk,  the  dead  even  are  raised" — because 
he  had  power  to  raise  the  dead — and  as  a  further  evidence,  "the  poor 
have  the  gospel  preached  unto  them." 

So,  in  this  day,  two  thousand  of  our  missionaries  are  out  in  the 
world,  preaching — to  whom?  Generally  speaking,  to  the  poor,  because 
the  rich  haven't  time  to  listen  to  them;  they  are  too  busy  and  secure 
with  their  money;  and  it  is  too  much  of  a  sacrifice  yet  to  be  called  a 
"Mormon."  It  is  not  so  much  as  it  was  fifty  years  ago,  not  by  a  long 
way,  but  it  is  still  a  sacrifice  to  give  up  family  connections  and  wealth, 
to  come  and  throw  in  their  lot  with  the  Latter-day  Saints.  The  rich,  as 
a  rule,  will  not  do  it;  but  with  the  poor,  it  is  different.  Who  were 
your  fathers  and  mothers,  all  of  you?  Scarcely  one  that  was  not  of  the 
poor.  I  say  that  we  get  one  thousand  converts  who  are  poor,  where  we 
get  one  who  is  rich.  However,  let  us  not  overlook  the  fact  that  they  are 
poor  in  worldly  goods  only.  They  are  rich  in  spirit,  rich  in  faith.  They 
are  the  Lord's  poor,  and  he  loves  them.  They  do  not  come  from  the  dregs 
of  society,  but  are  of  the  highest  type  of  manhood  and  womanhood. 

So  the  gospel  in  this  day  as  was  the  case  in  the  days  of  the  Savior,  is 
preached  to  the  poor.  The  poor  have  the  gospel  preached  to  them, 
and  it  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  poor,  I  want  to  tell  you,  have 
built  up  this  Church.  The  poor  are  more  faithful  in  devotion  to  the 
Church  than  are  the  rich,  or  those  who  are  comparatively  rich.  That  poor 
widow  in  your  neighborhood,  whom  you  know,  probably  washing  for  a 
living,  has  a  son  on  a  mission,  helping  to  support  him.  She  is  the 
kind,  and  those  like  her,  who  are  really  sacrificing  for  this  work. 
How  much  do  you  sacrifice?  How  much  real  sacrifice  do  we,  who  are 
better  off,  make  for  the  work?  Not  so  very  much,  because  what 
we  give  we  don't  feel,  and  the  reason  that  we  don't  feel  it  very  much 
is  because  we  don't  give  very  much,  in  proportion  to  what  we  have. 
But  the  poor — that  poor  emigrant  girl  in  your  ward,  who  is  there 
at  fast  meeting,  bearing  her  testimony,  probably  in  broken  English, 
her  tithing  is  in  the  hands  of  the  bishop.  Let  me  tell  you  she  is  helping 
to  build  up  the  Church,  she  is  sacrificing.  I  take  off  my  hat  to  such 
as  those.    I  bow  my  head  in  their  presence  because  they  are  better  than 

FOR  BUILDING  UP  THE  KINGDOM 

We  heard  from  the  President  of  the  Church  that  a  very  consider- 
able part  of  the  work  is  halted  because  of  the  lack  of  missionaries. 
With  the  call  for  missionaries  comes  the  call  for  meeting  houses. 
It  is  different  from  what  it  was  in  the  world  a  while  ago.  People  want 
to  hear  about  Mormonism  now  and  they  want  a  decent  place  to  come 
to  that  they  may  hear  about  it.    So  that  takes  a  great  deal  of  money, 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

and  we  need  ten  times  more  for  that  same  work  of  the  Lord ;  hot 
for  me,  not  for  President  Grant,  not  for  the  authorities  of  the  Church, 
but  for  the  building  up  of  the  kingdom  of  God.  We  need  ten  times 
more.  And  let  me  say,  if  you  and  I  and  all  the  rest  who  are  well- 
to-do — if  the  entire  membership  of  this  Church,  paid  their  tithes 
honestly,  there  would  never  need  to  be  another  call  on  the  people  for 
anything  in  building  up  the  kingdom  of  God.  The  law  of  the  Lord 
has  provided  all  that  would  be  needed.  But  we  don't  fully  observe 
the  law.  We  don't  contribute  the  means  that  we  promise,  and  that 
we  are  under  obligation  to  do.  Brother  McKay,  in  the  first  day  of 
conference,  called  attention  to  that  very  point,  that  you  are  under  cove- 
nant, I  am  under  covenant,  to  keep  that  commandment.  I  know  some 
of  the  brethren  will  say:  "I  don't  know  that  I  have  promised  to  pay 
tithing."  Oh,  yes  you  have;  yes,  you  have.  Every  Sunday,  if  you 
go  to  fast  meeting  or  sacrament  meeting,  you  promise  it,  clearly, 
definitely,  if  not  gladly.  You  should  do  it  gladly,  for  before  you  eat 
that  morsel  of  bread  symbolizing  the  body,  the  death,  burial  and  the 
resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ,  a  prayer  is  offered,  in  which  you  make 
the  pledge,  "that  we  may  witness  unto  Thee,  O  God  the  Eternal  Father" 
— that  is  a  pretty  solemn  pledge,  brethren  and  sisters — "witness  unto 
thee,  O  God  the  Eternal  Father,  that  we  do  remember  him,  that  we  are 
willing  to  take  upon  us" — willing,  mind  you — "willing  to  take  upon  us 
his  name," — and  what  else?  "And  keep  his  commandments  which 
he  has  given  us."  Isn't  that  a  pledge?  Isn't  that  your  promise?  Well, 
we  haven't  kept  it.  We  don't  keep  it.  And  so  the  Church  hasn't  means 
enough  to  help  carry  on  and  build  up  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

Here  is  what  the  Lord  says  about  the  poor.  It  is  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  Section  thirty-five: 

"And  the  poor  and  the  meek  shall  have  the  gospel  preached  unto  them,  and 
they  shall  be  looking  forth  for  the  time  of  my  coming,  for  it  is  nigh  at  hand." 

Then  again,  section  fifty-six : 

"Wo  unto  you  rich  men,  that  will  not  give  your  substance  to  the  poor, 
for  your  riches  will  canker  your  souls ;  and  this  shall  be  your  lamentation  in 
the  day  of  visitation,  and  of  judgment,  and  of  indignation — The  harvest  is  past, 
the  summer  is  ended,  and  my  soul  is  not  saved ! 

"Wo  unto  you  poor  men,  whose  hearts  are  not  broken,  whose  spirits  are 
not  contrite,  and  whose  bellies  are  not  satisfied,  and  whose  hands  are  not  stayed 
from  laying  hold  upon  other  men's  goods,  whose  eyes  are  full  of  gfeediness, 
and  who  will  not  labor  with  your  own  hands ! 

"But  blessed  are  the  poor  who  are  pure  in  heart,  whose  hearts  are  broken, 
and  whose  spirits  are  contrite,  for  they  shall  see  the  kingdom  of  God  coming 
in  power  and  great  glory  unto  their  deliverance;  for  the  fatness  of  the  earth 
shall  be  theirs. 

"For  behold,  the  Lord  shall  come,  and  his  recompense  shall  be  with  him, 
ana  he  shall  reward  every  man,  and  the  poor  shall  rejoice; 

"And  their  generations  shall  inherit  the  earth  from  generation  to  generation, 
for  ever  and  ever." 

IN    THIS   GOODLY  LAND 

Those  are  the  promises  made  to  the  poor.  We,  descendants  of  the 
poor,  are  placed  in  this  wonderful,  goodly  land,  with  riches,  with 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NlBLEY  119 


abundance ;  and  yet  we  are  so  stingy,  I  was  going  to  say.  Our  hearts 
are  not  what  the  Lord  would  like  them  to  be,  for  the  Lord  loveth 
a  cheerful  giver,  not  a  stingy  giver.  It  will  not  bring  so  much  blessing 
if  it  is  given  niggardly. 

I  recall  hearing  Brother  Golden  Kimball  tell  of  his  father,  who 
happened  to  come  into  possession  of  a  very  fine  horse,  a  beautiful  horse, 
and  the  boys  thought  they  needed  it;  whereas  he,  Brother  Kimball, 
thought  he  had  better  pay  it  in  on  tithing — for  we  used  to  pay  in  kind, 
in  those  days,  when  there  wasn't  any  money  in  this  country ;  wheat 
was  paid,  and  butter  and  eggs,  cattle  and  sheep,  and  everything  that 
was  produced.  Well,  this  was  a  beautiful  horse,  and  the  boys  thought 
they  ought  to  keep  him.  Finally  Brother  Kimball  had  to  say:  "You 
take  that  horse  right  down  to  the  bishop  there'  in  the  tithing  office, 
before  my  heart  puckers  up." 

Well,  we  figure  out  how  little  we  can  pay,  ant!  our  hearts  "pucker" 
up,  and  we  don't  keep  the  covenant,  the  pledge  we  make  every  Sabbath 
day  at  the  sacrament  table.  And  yet  I  don't  want  to  scold.  Rather 
I  want  to  bless ;  it  is  in  my  heart  to  bless,  to  bless  the  faithful  workers, 
for  after  all,  are  we  not  the  best  people  in  all  the  world?  I  don't  want 
to  be  associated,  here  or  hereafter,  with  any  other  kind  of  people  than 
my  own.    They  are  good  people. 

SIGNS  OF  THE  TIMES 

I  see  the  signs  of  the  times  that  have  been  pointed  out  to  you  and 
those  who  try  to  watch  for  them.  Brother  Young  has  mentioned 
Ramsay  MacDonald,  Premier  of  the  British  empire,  coming  over  here 
to  talk  peace,  to  try  to  help  to  bring  peace  to  the  world, — blessed 
peace!  Herbert  Hoover,  the  farmer's  son,  grown  up  from  a 
poor  boy  who  had  to  work  his  way  through  school,  standing  at  the 
head  of  the  greatest  nation  on  earth,  and  Ramsay  MacDonald,  one  of 
the  poor,  the  poor  exalted,  meeting  there  this  day  in  those  Virginia 
hills  and  talking  things  that  are  of  most  momentous  concern  to  the 
whole  world.  I  bless  the  Lord  for  them.  As  far  as  I  have  authority 
to  bless — and  I  have,  as  an  elder  of  the  Church — I  bless  Herbert 
Hoover  in  the  great  effort  that  he  is  making  now,  and  I  bless  Ramsay 
MacDonald,  and  ask  God  to  bless  them,  that  they  may  do  that  which 
makes  for  righteousness. 

BLESSINGS  INVOKED 

In  the  president's  office  the  other  day,  when  Ramsay  MacDonald 
was  landing  at  the  pier  in  New  York,  we  turned  on  the  radio — wonder- 
ful radio — and  we  could  hear  the  whistle  of  the  steamship  blow;  we 
could  hear  the  tumult  and  the  shouting  and  all  the  rest  of  it,  the  bands 
playing;  and  after  they  got  up  to  the  city  hall  we  heard  Ramsay  Mac- 
Donald's  rich,  Scotch  voice;  he  rolled  out  his  r's  when  he  said:  "We 
want  to  bring  peace  to  the  wor-rld,"  and  I  enjoyed  it.  It  was  music 
to  my  soul,  and  I  said  in  my  heart  and  soul,  "God  bless  you."  I  say 
it  now  before  this  congregation.    By  the  power  and  authority  of  the 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


holy  priesthood  that  I  hold,  I  bless  the  President  of  the  United 
States  and  the  Premier  of  Great  Britain,  that  God  Almighty  may  give 
them  success  and  blessing  from  the  Lord. 

I  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  by  that  same  power  and  that 
same  authority,  that  our  hearts  may  be  opened  to  the  work  of  the 
Lord,  and  that  we  may  not  fail  in  keeping  the  covenants  we  make. 

I  bless  my  brethren  here  on  this  stand.  I  want  to  say  here  that 
with  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  I  don't  believe  there  ever 
was  a  time  in  the  history  of  this  Church  when  there  was  more  una- 
nimity, more  of  fellowship,  more  of  real  effort,  so  far  as  we  are  able 
to  put  effort  forth.  There  may  have  been  greater  men;  doubtless 
were ;  but  for  real  united  effort,  united  strength,  and  the  power  of  God, 
never  has  there  been,  in  the  history  of  this  Church,  a  more  United 
band  of  brethren  than  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  are  this 
day.  I  glory  in  it.  *  quote  with  pleasure  the  prophecy  made,  I  think 
by  Isaiah,  when  the  Lord  should  bring  again  Zion,  and  he  is  bringing 
it  now. 

"Thy  watchmen  shall  lift  up  the  voice;  with  the  voice  together 
they  shall  sing;  for  they  shall  see  eye  to  eye,  when  the  Lord  shall 
bring  again  Zion." 

That  is  the  condition  today.  I  bear  witness  of  it.  I  bless  the 
President  of  this  Church  for  his  integrity,  for  his  humility  and  meekness 
and  power.  I  bless  his  counselors,  that  they  may  be  helps  to  him; 
also  the  Twelve,  and  the  Patriarch.  I  bless  the  Patriarch  with  all  my 
heart,  that  he  may  be  healed.  I  bless  the  Presidents  of  Seventies,  the 
Presiding  Bishopric,  and"  all  you  presidents  of  stakes,  and  bishops  of 
wards,  and  every  faithful  worker,  male  and  female.  I  bless  you  sisters, 
who  so  nobly  and  efficiently  direct  the  splendid  labors  of  your  organ- 
izations. You  are  not  stingy  like  your  husbands  are.  I  mean  it.  You 
are  not  that  kind.  You  give  more  freely.  God  bless  you.  I  bless  you 
all  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. — Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  PETERSON 

Former  President  of  the  Danish  Mission 

This,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  the  biggest  thrill  that  I  have 
ever  experienced.  To  gaze  over  this  vast  audience  is  an  inspiration  and 
an  opportunity  of  a  lifetime. 

I  bring  you  the  love  and  greetings  of  the  missionaries  and  saints 
in  the  Danish  Mission.  This  mission  is  probably  one  of  the  smallest 
in  the  world,  but  I  can  assure  you  it  is  a  live  mission.  It  is  the  second 
oldest  mission  in  Europe ;  and  in  this  small  country  of  Denmark  there 
have  probably  been  more  converts,  according  to  the  population,  than  in 
any  other  country  in  the  world.  Thousands  have  embraced  the  gospel, 
and  there  are  still  thousands  that  are  waiting  to  accept  it. 

I  can  assure  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  missionaries 
in  that  mission  are  performing  an  excellent  work.    They  are  not  idling 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  PETERSON 


121 


their  time  away,  nor  neglectirig  their  calling.  I  can  assure  you  that 
they  are  enjoying  the  spirit  of  their  work.  Many  of  these  elders  have 
spent  as  high  as  two  hundred  and  ninety  hours  in  a  single  month 
tracting  from  door  to  door — more  than  ten  hours  per  day.  They  are 
all  enjoying  the  best  of  health.  The  saints  are  active.  We  have 
auxiliary  organizations  in  practically  all  the  branches  of  that  mission. 
They  are  all  functioning  and  doing  a  splendid  work. 

Through  the  kindness  of  the  First  Presidency  we  have  disposed 
of  our  old  mission  property,  Korsgade  No.  11.  This  place,  which 
has  been  owned  by  the  Church  for  a  great  many  years  has  outlived 
its  usefulness.  Wte  have  now  secured,  through  the  aid  of  President 
James  E.  Talmage,  one  of  the  most  beautiful  sites  in  the  wonderful 
city  of  Copenhagen.  Strenuous  protests  were  made  by  the  clergy, 
not  only  to  the  Bank  of  Copenhagen  who  sold  us  the  property,  but 
also  to  the  city  council,  to  thwart  or  to  hinder  the  granting  of  a  building 
permit,  but  in  all  cases  these  protests  were  turned  down.  At  the  time 
the  protest  was  made  to  the  city  council  in  Copenhagen  by  the  clergy, 
headed  by  the  Bishop  of  Seeland,  they  informed  the  council  that  we 
were  not  Christians,  that  we  were  heathens,  and  had  no  right  to  own 
property  or  erect  a  church  in  that  city.  One  of  the  councilmen  arose 
and  stated  that  he  thought  it  would  be  a  splendid  idea  to  have  these 
heathens  come  within  the  shadow  of  their  church,  so  that  they  could 
be  converted.  Our  building  site  is  directly  in  front  of  one  of  the 
large  Lutheran  churches  in  that  city. 

I  would  like  to  make  an  appeal  to  you  parents  of  Scandinavian 
ancestry,  to  urge  your  sons  to  take  missions  or  accept  missions  to 
Denmark.  I  can  assure  you  that  they  will  be  kept  busy,  that  they  will 
enjoy  their  work,  that  they  will  get  just  as  much,  and  possibly  more 
experience  than  in  any  of  the  missions  to  the  south  of  that  country. 

I  trust  that  you  parents  will  also  be  very  considerate  as  to  the 
sending  of  money  to  your  boys.  Rather  send  them  an  extra  letter  than 
too  much  money.  The  more  money  you  send,  the  less  efficiency  will 
take  place. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
I  am  proud  of  that  country,  proud  of  the  work  that  has  been  performed 
in  that  land.  I  have  a  testimony  of  the  gospel.  I  know  that  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God  and  the  Savior  of  the  world.  I 
know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  divinely  commissioned  to  again  establish 
this  work  upon  the  earth.  I  pray  that  we  may  all  strive  to  do  our 
duty  as  members  of  this  Church,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  P.  LILLYWHITE 

Former  President  of  Netherlands  Mission 

I  stand  here  today  in  the  midst  of  one  of  the  greatest  revelations 
that  God  could  give  of  the  divinity  of  Mormonism.  As  I  gaze  into  the 
ten  thousand  or  twelve  thousand  faces  of  those  who  are  sitting  in  this 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


audience  this  afternoon,  I  see  the  manifestation  of  God's  hand  in  gath- 
ering his  people  together  in  these  latter  days.  You  men  and  women 
have  received  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Its  sweet  influence  has  touched 
your  souls,  and  has  made  you  happy ;  it  has  made  you  rejoice  in  the  day 
in  which  you  live;  and  it  is  in  fulfilment  of  the  words  of  the  Savior 
to  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  this  last  dispensation,  when  he  said : 

"Blessed  are  they  *  *  *  who  have  obeyed  my  gospel ;  for  they  shall 
receive  for  their  reward  the  good  things  of  the  earth,  and  it  shall  bring  forth 
in  its  strength." 

Surely  this  word  has  been  fulfilled  in  the  presence  of  these  ever- 
lasting hills.  The  men  and  the  women  gathered  out  from  the  various 
nations  of  the  earth,  poor  men  and  poor  women,  as  we  have  heard  today 
from  President  Nibley,  have  been  made  rich;  first,  in  their  souls,  by 
the  mellowing,  sweetening  influences  of  the  gospel  of  the  Son  of  God ; 
and  then,  by  reason  of  their  faithfulness  and  the  keeping  of  his  com- 
mandments, they  have  been  made  rich  in  their  store-houses.  They  have 
received  from  the  earth  in  abundance,  as  the  Lord  promised  to  those  who 
would  keep  his  commandments  :  - 

"And  they  shall  also  be  crowned  with  blessings  from  above,  yea,  and  with 
commandments  not  a  few,  and  with  revelations  in  their  time — they  that  arc 
faithful  and  diligent  before  me." 

This  promise  has  also  been  fulfilled.  There  is  no  organization  in 
the  world  today  that  has  received  more  revelation,  more  blessings  than 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  You  are  witnesses 
to  the  fulfillment  of  these  promises.  Glorious  is  this  organization. 
Every  man  and  woman,  every  boy  and  girl,  has  a  place  in  this  wonder  - 
ful Church ;  a  place  for  development,  for  growth,  aye,  for  the  perfecting 
of  their  characters,  if  they  will  be  obedient  to  God's  laws. 

"Wherefore  I  give  unto  them  a  commandment,  saying  thus:  Thou  shalt 
love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  with  all  thy  might,  mind  and  strength, 
and  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  thou  shalt  serve  him. 

"Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself.  Thou  shalt  not  steal,  neither 
commit  adultery,  nor  kill,  nor  do  anything  like  unto  it. 

"Thou  shalt  thank  the  Lord  thy  God  in  all  things. 

"Thou  shalt  offer  a  sacrifice  unto  the  Lord  thy  God  in  righteousness,  even 
that  of  a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit." 

This  sacrifice  is  not  too  great  for  you  nor  for  me.  God  does  not 
ask  of  you  that  which  you  cannot  give,  but  it  is  within  the  power  of 
every  man  and  woman  to  offer  unto  him  a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite 
spirit ;  and  in  return  for  this  sacrifice  he  promises  to  reward  with  bless- 
ings and  with  commandments  not  a  few,  and  that  the  earth  shall  bring 
forth  in  its  fulness. 

I  love  the  gospel,  I  love  to  bear  witness  to  the  truth ;  for  God  has 
let  me  know,  through  the  inspiration  of  his  Spirit,  that  Mormonism  is 
the  gospel  of  his  Son,  and  will  perfect  every  man  and  woman  who  is 
willing  to  keep  and  obey  his  commandments. 

I  am  thankful  for  the  privilege  I  have  had  of  laboring  in  the 


ELDER  JOHN  P.  LILLY  WHITE 


123 


mission  field,  thankful  for  the  splendid  men  under  whose  direction  I 
have  labored :  President  Grant,  President  Nibley,  and  President  Ivins, 
of  the  First  Presidency;  President  George  Albert  Smith,  President 
Orson  F.  Whitney,  President  David  O.  McKay  and  President  James 
E.  Talmage.  I  call  them  presidents  because  they  were  so  and  are  so  to 
me.  I  have  enjoyed  their  acquaintance  and  the  wonderful  influence 
that  has  come  from  them  into  my  life.  I  have  been  with  them,  and  I 
have  never  heard  them  say  one  word  nor  have  I  seen  them  perform  one 
act  but  what  was  elevating,  but  what  would  make  me  better,  and  other 
men  better.  And  I  can  say  the  same  thing  of  the  other  brethren  who 
have  been  and  who  are  laboring  as  the  General  Authorities  in  this 
Church.    God  bless  them,  and  keep  them  happy  in  his  service. 

I  bring  you  greetings  from  President  and  Sister  Widtsoe.  The)' 
asked  that  we  convey  to  the  brethren  and  to  the  saints  their  good  will 
and  their  love.  They  are  wonderful  people,  and  are  wielding  a  tremen- 
dous influence  throughout  the  European  Mission.  They  are  loved  by 
all  the  saints  and  by  the  missionaries,  and  they  are  doing  a  great  deal  of 
good,  as  these  other  presidents  have  done. 

I  bring  you  greetings  from  the  saints  and  the  missionaries  in 
Holland.  They  are  splendid  people.  There  are  no  better  upon  the 
earth, — men  and  women  who  are  willing  to  serve  God  and  keep  his 
commandments.  The  Dutch  people  are  kind  to  the  missionaries.  They 
are  kindly  disposed  towards  the  gospel.  They  open  their  homes  and 
their  hearts  to  its  influence.  Many  of  them  are  accepting  the  gospel. 
I  congratulate  the  fathers  and  mothers  who  have  sons  in  that  mission. 
They  are  wonderful  young  men.  We  have  labored  with  them.  We  have 
lived  with  them.  We  love  them.  Yes,  we  love  them  as  our  own  children. 
Their  success  is  our  success;  their  joys  are  ours.  God  bless  them  for 
their  faithfulness,  for  they  are  faithful.  There  is  a  wonderful  spirit 
prevailing  in  the  Netherlands  Mission,  a  spirit  of  brotherly  love,  of 
kindness  one  toward  another,  of  mutual  helpfulness  and  benefit ;  and  the 
saints  are  being  blessed  in  all  they  do,  as  well  as  the  elders. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  be  faithful,  and  keep  his  commandments. 
When  we  partake  of  the  sacrament  let  our  hearts  and  hands  be  clean 
and  pure,  and  let  our  testimonies  and  our  obedience  be  as  firm  and 
implicit  as  our  declarations;  for  I  hold  that  a  man's  testimony  of  the 
gospel  is  no  stronger  than  his  obedience  unto  its  principles. 

God  bless  us,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  dislike  very  much  to  limit  the  brethren,  but  we  still  have  four 
speakers  that  we  would  like  to  hear  from,  we  have  the  authorities  to 
present,  and  I  would  not  object  to  having  two  or  three  minutes  left 
for  myself. 

We  had  three  most  splendid  testimonies  from  our  sisters,  all  three 
of  whom  occupied  a  total  of  eight  minutes  between  them.  A  very  fine 
example. 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  JOHN  G.  ALLRED 

Former  President  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission 

It  is  an  honor  to  any  man  to  be  called  to  preside  over  a  mission 
of  the  Church.  From  such  a  position  there  comes  a  joy  and  happiness 
that  can  be  received  from  no  other  source.  About  four  years  ago  I 
was  called  to  preside  over  the  North  Central  States  Mission,  as  its 
first  president,  and  I  had  the  joy  and  happiness  of  my  life  in  that  labor. 

I  have  been  thinking  today  that  if  Mormonism  is  true  there  must 
be  an  abundance  of  evidence  of  it;  and  I  would  like  to  give  just 
briefly,  if  I  may,  an  evidence  to  me  of  the  divinity  of  this  work.  This 
Church  has  been  organized  now  nearly  a  hundred  years.  During  those 
hundred  years  we  have  been  sending  missionaries  to  every  part  of 
the  civilized  world,  and  these  missionaries  have  been  largely  young  men 
and  women  who  were  unsophisticated,  untrained,  and  unlearned,  per- 
taining to  the  religions  of  the  world.  It  has  been  estimated  that  we 
have  sent  into  the  mission  fields  between  sixty-five  and  eighty-five 
thousand  men  and  women  during  that  period  of  time,  and  so  far  as  I 
know,  there  has  never  been  a  single  case  where  a  missionary,  young 
or  old,  has  written  back  or  sent  word,  "I  have  found  something  in  the 
world  that  is  better  than  you  sent  me  out  to  preach.  I  am  leaving  the 
service  of  this  church  and  joining  another  institution."  I  think  there 
never  has  been  a  single  case  of  that  kind.  If  there  has  been,  I  have 
never  heard  of  it.  How  is  it,  if  Mormonism  is  not  the  divine  truth, 
that  these  young  men  and  women  go  out  and  meet  the  learned  preachers 
of  the  day,  and  are  not  won  away  from  their  religion? 

I  want  to  testify  today  that  I  come  back  to  Zion  with  my  heart  full 
of  gratitude  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  my  standing  among  this 
people,  for  my  faith  in  this  great  latter-day  work,  and  that  I  have 
found  nothing  in  the  world  that  has  been  any  inducement  whatsoever 
to  me  to  leave  the  faith  of  my  people  and  identify  myself  with  any 
other  work. 

I  want  to  leave  the  rest  of  my  time,  if  there  is  any,  to  President 
Grant.  God  bless  this  work,  with  him  at  the  head,  and  all  who  labor 
with  him  in  this  service,  that  this  work  may  be  consummated  as  God 
intended  it  should  be,  through  the  faithfulness  of  this  people,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

This  is  a  surprise  but  I  suppose  it  should  not  be. 

I  am  happy  in  the  performance  of  my  duties  as  a  missionary.  As 
Brother  Allred  spoke  I  could  not  help  but  think  that  I  was  never 
busier  or  more  intensively  occupied  in  my  life.  But  the  joy  that  has  come 
to  me  in  that  labor  of  love,  is  greater  than  that  realized  in  any  other 
undertaking. 


ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE 


125 


This  is  a  glorious  work !  It  is  my  privilege  to  labor  with  a  splendid 
band  of  young  missionaries,  who  have  been  an  inspiration  to  me, 
especially  as  I  have  heard  them  report  their  labors  in  the  mission  field. 
I  have  felt  that  their  experiences  are  similar  to  those  of  the  seventies 
in  the  days  of  the  Savior.  When  they  returned  and  reported  to  him 
their  labors  and  what  they  had  witnessed,  he  said :  "I  thank  thee,  O 
Father,  Lord  of  heaven  and  earth,  that  thou  hast  hid  these  things  from 
the  wise  and  prudent,  and  hast  revealed  them  unto  babes." 

These  young  people  are  not  wise  in  this  world's  learning,  or  ex- 
perienced; they  are  youthful,  inexperienced,  frequently  uneducated, 
and  crude,  but  enjoying  an  experience  and  receiving  an  education 
superior  to  that  obtained  anywhere  else.  We  value  the  privilege  of 
educating  our  children  in  the  great  universities  of  the  world,  preparing 
them  for  life's  duties ;  but  is  it  not  far  more  important  that  they  should 
be  prepared  both  for  this  life's  duties  and  those  of  the  life  to  come,  the 
eternities  ? 

It  is  the  greatest  university  training,  to  be  thus  divinely  inspired, 
guided  and  educated.  It  is  more  than  what  people  call  religious 
training.  There  is  in  it  also  a  most  practical  training  for  life's  secular 
duties  as  well.  It  develops  more  than  any  college  work  will,  initiative, 
self  reliance,  leadership,  moral  character,  virtue,  love  of  f  ellowmen,  and 
above  all  the  love  of  God,  and  a  knowledge  of  him. 

I  should  be  glad  indeed  to  relate  some  of  the  really  marvelous 
experiences  of  these  young  people.  The  Savior  said,  "This  is  life 
eternal  that  they  might  know  thee  the  only  true  God  and  Jesus  Christ 
whom  thou  hast  sent."  That  is  what  these  young  people  are  learning 
and  of  which  they  are  testifying.  Many  of  them  are  able  to  say,  with 
clear  consciences  and  fervor,  that  they  know  that  God  lives,  that  he  is 
their  Father,  and  that  Jesus  Christ  is  their  Savior. 

I  read  the  Monday  morning  New  York  papers,  giving  an  account  of 
the  Sunday  discourses  of  the  learned  "Divines"  of  that  great  city. 
Rarely  does  some  one  of  them  fail  to  say  something  indicating  a  need 
of  a  new  or  different  religion.  Some  openly  advocate,  even  orthodox 
preachers,  that  there  must  be  a  broad  rational  religion  in  which  all  can 
unite.  In  other  words,  that  the  gate  should  be  wide,  easy  to  find,  and 
the  way  broad  and  easy  to  walk  in,  to  eternal  life. 

These  young  people  are  testifying  that  there  is  "One  Lord,  one 
faith,  one  baptism;"  that  the  way  to  eternal  life  is  not  to  be  so  easily 
found,  "because  straight  is  the  gate,  and  narrow  is  the  way,  which 
leadeth  unto  life,  and  few  there  be  that  find  it." 

Not  long  since  that  very  noted  preacher  Dr.  Emerson  Fosdick,  of 
the  Park  Avenue  Baptist  Church,  one  of  the  most  noted  New  York 
preachers,  said,  "Religion  in  this  country,  with  its  conflicting  creeds, 
is  a  good  deal  of  a  mess.  That  many  people  are  confused  over  it, 
looking  at  it  as  a  kind  of  jungle  without  a  road  through  it,  everybody 
knows.  And  thus  to  be  bewildered  about  religion  is  to  many  a  source 
of  mental  and  spiritual  agony.  The  wish  for  certainty  in  religion  is 
one  of  the  most  important  desires  of  man.    We  can  stand  having  all 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

sorts  of  things  shifting  on  every  side  of  us,  but  when  the  solid  ground 
itself  shakes  it  is  intolerable.  Though  we  can  welcome  change  in  many 
realms,  scientific,  cultural  and  economic,  when  our  basic  ideas  of  what 
life  is  all  about  begin  to  vacillate,  that  means  spiritual  vertigo" — or 
stomach  ache. 

Only  a  week  or  two  since  Dr.  Beck,  in  the  Unitarian  church,  said 
that  "Ghosts  of  the  past  are  all  that  keep  Christianity  together  today." 

Fifty  years  ago  or  more  when  I  was  a  boy,  and  when  spiritualism 
was  being  introduced,  I  heard  the  elders  of  the  Church  say  that  the 
time  would  come  when  all  of  the  great  truths  of  the  gospel  would  in 
some  way  be  more  or  less  duplicated,  as  spiritualism  was  then  attempt- 
ing to  duplicate  one  of  the  features  of  the  truth  revealed  in  our  time. 
Later  came  a  science  of  healing  by  faith  and  a  popular  religion,  its  chief 
corner  stone  being  healing  by  faith. 

Not  long  since,  in  Washington,  a  great  conclave  or  general  con- 
vention of  the  Protestant-Episcopal  church  was  held,  in  which  there 
was  a  somewhat  remarkable  report  made  by  a  very  dignified  commission 
which  had  been  appointed  by  that  church  six  years  before  to  study  the 
merits  of  faith  or  spiritual  healing.  That  commission  consisted  of  a 
number  of  noted  bishops  and  deputies,  among  whom  were  three  dis- 
tinguished physicians,  one  Charles  H.  Mayo  of  Mayo  Brothers,  than 
whom  there  are  no  more  distinguished  physicians.  This  commission, 
after  studying  the  subject  for  six  years,  made  report  confirming  what 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  learned  in  a  day,  in  which  they  said  that, 
"Christian  healing  has  passed  beyond  the  stage  of  experiment  and  its 
value  cannot  be  questioned." 

Three  conclusions  were  drawn  by  the  commission,  and  the  report 
asked  the  general  convention  to  "thankfully  recognize  the  deepening 
of  the  spiritual  life  of  the  church  which  had  come  through  the  growing 
recognition  of  the  healing  power  of  God." 

The  conclusions  were,  "that  throughout  the  world  spiritual  healing 
is  no  longer  the  hope  of  a  few,  but  the  belief  and  practice  of  a  large 
and  rapidly  increasing  number  of  persons ;"  that  such  healing  is  an 
experience  of  mankind  that  can  no  longer  be  questioned;  that  while 
faith  in  any  supposed  remedy  produces  some  effect,  faith  in  God,  as 
revealed  in  Christ,  is  followed  by  results  which  are  more  sure,  more 
lasting  and  of  a  more  evidently  spiritual  character. 

What  is  called  spiritual  healing  is  rapidly  becoming  popular  in 
many  of  the  churches. 

Today,  as  we  are  commencing  to  rely  more  than  formerly  upon 
the  power  of  the  physician,  should  there  not  be  a  revival  among  us  of 
that  deep  and  profound  faith  which  has  so  notably  characterized  Latter- 
day  Saints,  so  much  in  advance  of  all  the  churches? 

I  am  trespassing  on  the  time  allotted  me.  May  the  Lord  help  us 
to  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the  glorious  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  its 
work  in  which  we  are  engaged  and  which  means  so  much  to  us,  is 
my  desire  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 


ELDER  MILES  L.  JONES 


127 


ELDER  MILES  L.  JONES 

President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 

I  am  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  having  the  opportunity  of 
reporting  very  briefly  the  activities  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission. 
I  was  resting  quite  easily  for  the  reason  that  the  time  was  passing  so 
rapidly  and  there  are  so  many  to  occupy  it. 

I  am  very  pleased  to  state  that  during  the  first  eight  months  of  this 
year  we  have  performed  two  hundred  and  forty-three  baptisms  in  the 
new  mission.  From  the  first  of  September  until  the  time  that  I  left, 
about  a  week  ago,  the  average  would  run  about  seventy  for  this  month. 
So  that  you  can  see  that  we  are  active  in  that  mission. 

I  have  spent  considerable  time  just  recently  in  visiting  the  near-by 
settlements  or  branches,  where  I  could  reach  them  by  auto,  and  in  the 
latter  part  of  the  season  we  will  make  the  longer  journeys  by  rail.  I 
have  found,  in  visiting  these  branches,  where  mothers  have  traveled  as 
far  as  five  miles  over  the  hills,  carrying  their  babes,  with  two  or  three 
children  by  their  side,  making  the  journey  with  them.  One  of  our 
beloved  sisters,  and  her  sister  who  was  not  a  member  of  the  Church, 
made  an  eighteen  mile  journey  across  the  hills  on  horse-back  to  a  sta- 
tion and  took  a  train  from  there  to  the  place  we  were  holding  our 
meeting.  This  shows  to  me  that  the  faith  is  strong  among  those  people, 
and  they  are  living  the  gospel  to  the  best  of  their  ability. 

I  am  very  sorry  to  say  that  we  have  had  the  misfortune  just 
recently  of  losing  one  of  our  most  efficient  missionaries,  although  all 
of  them  are  very  efficient.  We  haven't  one  in  the  mission  who  is  not 
energetic,  early  and  late,  going  wherever  called  to  go  at  any  time. 
The  one  to  whom  I  have  reference  is  a  humble  elder  from  Arizona. 
He,  with  his  companion,  Elder  Baird,  was  asked  to  visit  Edmonton 
county,  in  Kentucky.  They  wanted  to  visit  a  certain  family  belonging 
to  the  Church  and  leave  their  blessing  with  them,  and  in  order  for 
them  to  do  so  it  was  necessary  that  they  cross  a  river.  When  they 
reached  the  water's  edge  they  waited  for  some  time,  thinking  that 
someone  would  come  along  and  bring  the  little  boat,  which  was  on  the 
other  side,  across  to  where  they  were.  After  waiting  for  some  time, 
Elder  Fenn  decided  that  he  would  swim  the  river  and  get  the  boat, 
come  back  and  dress,  and  then  he  and  his  companion  could  cross  to 
the  other  side.  After  preparing  to  swim  across  the  river  he  turned  to 
his  companion,  and  said,  "God  bless  you,  Elder  Baird,  in  your  labors." 
Then  he  plunged  into  the  water.  He  had  proceeded  a  little  more  than 
half  way  across,  when,  for  some  cause  he  turned  back,  and  almost 
immediately  disappeared.  The  river  at  that  point  is  three  hundred  feet 
in  width  and  from  eighteen  to  twenty-five  feet  in  depth. 

Word  was  sent  to  us  at  headquarters.  My  secretary  and  I  left 
m  a  very  few  minutes  in  an  automobile,  and  arrived  at  the  place  where 
the  accident  occurred,  at  about  8:30  o'clock  at  night.  We  spent  the 
greater  part  of  the  night  there,  and  when  we  discovered  that,  we  were 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


unable  to  recover  the  body  immediately,  we  retired  for  the  evening, 
leaving  several  men  there  to  go  on  with  the  work  as  best  they  could. 
When  I  awoke  in  the  morning  there  were  three  things  that  stood  out 
distinctly  in  my  mind.  The  first  one  was,  Telephone  for  the  ambulance 
to  come  at  once ;  the  second  was,  We  will  soon  recover  the  body ;  and 
the  third  was,  Tell  Elder  Baird  to  prepare  himself  to  accompany  the 
body  to  the  home  of  Elder  Fenn  in  Arizona.  I  immediately  acted 
upon  those  impressions. 

We  had  already  arranged  for  a  man  and  his  son  to  make  prepara- 
tions for  dragging  the  river.  In  the  morning  they  stretched  a  line  across 
the  river  some  fifteen  feet  below  where  Elder  Fenn  disappeared,  and 
then  started  dragging  it.  I  walked  along  the  bank  a  short  distance, 
and  as  I  gazed  out  over  the  water  it  was  made  plain  to  me  that  Elder 
Fenn's  body  lay  about  twenty  feet  below  the  line  and  about  thirty  feet 
nearer  the  bank  than  where  they  were  making  their  attempt  to  find  it. 
I  acted  upon  that  impression.  I  showed  the  man  who  was  in  charge 
the  place  where  I  knew  the  body  was  located,  and  after  three  or  four 
casts  they  recovered  it.  From  then  until  Elder  Fenn's  body  was 
returned  to  his  family  in  Arizona  everything  moved  along  satisfactorily. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  there  are  some  things  that  come  into  our 
lives  that  require  our  dependence  upon  the  Lord  Almighty  for  guidance 
and  direction.  I  have  found  this  to  be  true  on  several  occasions  in 
the  mission  which  I  have  the  honor  of  laboring  in  at  this  time. 

In  conclusion  I  want  to  say  to  the  friends  of  Elder  James  W. 
Price,  that  when  he  met  with  the  accident  of  which  some  of  you  have 
heard,  the  doctors  said  that  his  usefulness  was  past.  But  through  the  faith 
of  the  ninety-seven  elders  and  lady  missionaries  in  that  mission,  who 
fasted  and  prayed  for  his  recovery,  and  through  the  administration 
that  he  received,  he  was  restored  to  his  health  and  strength ;  and  he  is 
in  his  field  of  labor  today,  an  earnest  defender  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

I  leave  with  you  my  testimony  that  this  is  the  work  of  God,  and 
I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  ARTHUR  WELLING 

President  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  With  all  my  heart  I  rejoice  in  this 
opportunity  of  expressing  my  pride  and  gratitude  for  the  honor  that 
has  come  to  me  of  presiding  over  one  of  the  missions  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, — of  announcing  myself  in  full 
accord  with  all  of  the  instructions  and  with  the  testimonies  that  have 
been  borne  from  this  stand  during  this  conference, — and  of  pledging 
to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  to  the  presiding  brethren  under 
whom  we  serve,  that  I  will  do  my  best  not  to  be  a  disappointment  to  you, 
or  to  them,  or  to  our  Heavenly  Father  whom  we  serve. 


ELDER  ARTHUR  WELLING 


129 


Will  you  please  think  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission  as  a 
great  block  U,  with  one  corner  resting  on  the  Yellowstone  Park,  where 
Montana  and  Wyoming  meet;  and  the  other  on  the  Iowa  line  at  the 
Mississippi,  below  St.  Paul  and  Minneapolis ;  and  extending  north  from 
these  beginnings  indefinitely;  including  Montana  east  of  Great  Falls, 
North  and  South  Dakota,  and  Minnesota  in  the  United  States ;  and 
Manitoba,  Saskatchewan  and  parts  of  Alberta  and  Ontario  in  Canada. 

I  do  not  know  how  many  million  people  we  have  to  work  with. 
We  have  about  seventy  elders  and  lady  missionaries.  Since  it  has 
been  said  (in 'the  Priesthood  meeting  Saturday  evening)  that  we  need 
not  ask  for  more  missionaries,  except  to  Scandinavian  countries,  it 
may  be  remarked,  in  passing,  that  we  are  very  strongly  Scandinavian, 
President  Grant.  In  the  city  of  Minneapolis,  our  headquarters,  we  have 
a  population  equal  to  that  of  the  state  of  Utah,  mostly  Scandinavian. 

I  have  been  all  through  the  mission  twice,  since  June ;  once  with 
my  predecessor,  President  John  G.  Allred,  whom  you  have  heard  today, 
and  Brother  Ballard,  of  whom  and  for  whom  I  may  say  to  you,  that 
no  man  ever  received  a  more  favorable  introduction  to  a  field  of  labor 
than  I  did  to  mine;  and  nobody  appreciates  that  privilege  and  honor 
more.  I  nave  been  through  the  mission  again  since,  have  met  all  the 
elders  twice  and  have  twice  heard  them  bear  their  testimonies,  in 
public  and  in  missionary  meetings.  I  can  testify  to  you  that  they  are 
a  loyal  band  of  workers,  and  that  they 'are  performing  a  service  similar 
to  that  spoken  of  by  all  the  other  mission  presidents. 

The  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  is  the  truth.  This  is  the  Church 
and  kingdom  of  God.  The  authorities  who  preside  over  us  I  sustain 
with  all  my  heart ;  and  ask  the  blessings  of  our  Father  in  heaven  upon 
them  and  upon  our  missionary  labors.  It  is  a  glorious  work.  I  am 
grateful  for  it ;  and  'leave  you  my  testimony,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  have  a  telegram  from  the  bishop  of  the  South  Ward  at  Manti, 
stating  that  a  great  number  of  people  have  heard  distinctly  over  the  radio 
every  word  of  the  conference. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  General  Authorties  and  Officers  of  the  Church ;  all 
of  whom  were  sustained  in  their  positions  and  callings  by  the  unanimous 
vote  of  the  large  assembly,  as  follows : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthony  W.  Ivins,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Charles  W.  Nibley,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency, 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Reed  Smoot  James  E.  Talmage 

George  Albert  Smith  Stephen  L.  Richards 

George  F.  Richards  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

David  O.  McKay  John  A.  Widtsoe 

PRESIDING  PATRIARCH 

Hyrum  G.  Smith 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Brigham  H.  Roberts 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Charles  H.  Hart 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Levi  Edgar  Young 

Joseph  W.  McMurrin  Rey  L.  Pratt 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J. .  Grant 

As  Trustee-inTrust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH   HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants :  Andrew 
Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A  William  Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 

CHURCH   BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  David  O.  McKay 

Anthony  W.  Ivins  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Charles  W.  Nibley  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Willard  Young  '    Richard  R.  Lyman 

Rudger  Clawson  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Joseph  F.  Merrill 
Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER   OF  EDUCATION 

Joseph  F.  Merrill 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp  Peter  G.  Johnston 

Orval  W.  Adams 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


131 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor  B.  Cecil  Gates,  Asst.  Conductor 

David  A.  Smith,  President  George  C.  Smith,  Secretary 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.  Kimball  Alexander  Schreiner 

Tracy  Y.  Cannon  Frank  W.  Asper 

CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Joseph  Anderson 
GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  First  Counselor 
Julia  A.  Child,  Second  Counselor 
Julia  F.  Lund,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

David  O.  McKay,  General  Superintendent 
Stephen  L.  Richards,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
George  D.  Pyper,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Albert  Smith,  General  Superintendent 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  LADIES'  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Ruth  May  Fox,  President 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  First  Counselor 
Clarissa  A.  Beesley,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  President 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  First  Counselor 
Edna  Harker  Thomas,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Notwithstanding  the  time  has  expired  I  am  going  to  trespass  a 
little. 

GRATITUDE  FOR  SUCCESS  OF  CONFERENCE 

I  rejoice  in  the  very  splendid  conference  that  we  have  had.  I 


» 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


echo  and  endorse  the  words  of  blessing  for  the  President  of  the  United 
States,  for  Ramsay  Macdonald,  for  our  good  sisters,  and  for  the  people 
generally,  as  uttered,  I  believe,  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord,  by  my  counselor,  Brother  Nibley. 

I  thank  each  and  all  who  have  taken  part  in  this  conference.  It 
is  an  astonishing  fact  that  there  have  been  forty-three  speeches  made 
here  during  the  conference,  including  the  one  that  I  am  now  making. 

I  can  truthfully  say  that  I  rejoice  beyond  all  the  ability  with 
which  God  has  endowed  me  to  express  my  thoughts,  and  my  heart 
is  full  of  gratitude  for  the  rich  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
and  his  blessings  that  have  attended  us  during  this  conference.  Ever 
since  I  was  a  boy  I  have  heard  the  statement  made  at  the  close  of  each 
conference  that  it  was  one  of  the  very  best  we  had  ever  had.  To  me 
this  is  one  of  the  great  testimonies  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in 
which  we  are  engaged.  We  hear,  year  after  year — I  have  heard  from 
childhood  unto  the  present  time — the  same  testimonies,  the  same  words 
almost,  in  explaining  the  gospel  and  testifying  of  it,  but  we  never 
weary  if  our  spirits  are  only  right;  and  the  spirit  of  this  conference  has 
been  one  of  joy  and  peace  and  happiness. 

BLESSINGS  INVOKED 

I  leave  my  blessing  upon  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters — not  only 
upon  all  within  the  sound  of  my  voice  in  this  great 1  auditorium,  but 
upon  all  those  who  are  listening  in.  I  pray  God  to  bless  every  soul 
who  is  striving  to  do  good  upon  the  earth,  every  soul  who  is  honest  and 
upright,  loyal  and  true  to  his  God  and  to  his  country.  May  the  peace 
of  heaven  abide  with  all  the  honest  the  world  over;  and  particularly 
do  I  pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints.  1 
do  it  all  in  humility  and  by  the  authority  of  the  priesthood  of  the  living 
God  that  I  know  I  hold,  and  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  our 
Redeemer  and  Savior.  Amen. 

Solo  and  chorus,  "The  Earth  is  the  Lord's,"  was  rendered  by 
Sister  Jessie  Evans  and  the  choir. 

The  Hallelujah  Chorus  from  "The  Messiah"  was  rendered  by  the 
choir. 

Elder  Andrew  Jenson,  Assistant  Church  Historian,  pronounced  the 
benediction,  and  the  Conference  was  adjourned  for  six  months. 

Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing.  Accompani- 
ments and  interludes  were  played  on  the  great  organ  by  Tracy  Y. 
Cannon  and  Frank  W.  Asper. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

JOSEPH  ANDERSON, 
Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Alfred,  Elder  John  G  124 

Anderson,  Elder  Lorenzo  W  103 

Anderson,  Sister  May  •   85 

Authorities  Present  •  1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of   ....  129 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J  48 

Strength  and  growth  of  the  Church,  48 — "We  believe  in  being  honest," 
49 — Mr.  Studebaker's  tribute,  49 — A  rule  of  conduct,  50 — God's 
rental,  51 — A  higher  law,  51 — The  law  of  inheritance,  51 — They  who 
enter  the  celestial  kingdom,  51 — The  bankruptcy  law,  52— A  precious 
heritage,  52. 

Burton,  Elder  Alma  G  •  109 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q   42 

Sustaining  the  Authorities,  43 — Chapel  building  costs,  43 — Increase 
in  tithing,  43 — A  full  tithing,  44 — Train  Young  people  to  become 
tithepayers,  44 — Divine  principles  promote  development,  44 — Young 
people  the  greatest  resource,  44 — Factors  of  civilization,  45 — Physical 
welfare,  45 — Moral  standards,  45 — Education,  45 — Arts  and  in- 
dustries, 46 — Unselfishness  and  fair  dealing,  46 — Spiritual  growth, 
46 — The  work  is  growing,  47. 

Clawson,  President  Rudger  104 

Dependence  upon  Spirit  of  God,  105 — The  God  we  worship,  105 — 
A  God  of  love,  105 — The  family  of  God,  106 — Tremendous  sacrifices, 
106 — A  God  of  mercy,  107 — A  God  of  power,  107 — King  Hezekiah's 
faith,  108 — Sennacherib's  boastfulness,  108 — Judah's  deliverance,  108 
—Our  protection,  109. 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting   2 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting  •  26 

Fox,  Sister  Ruth  May   84 

General  Authorities  Present  •   1 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  129 

General  Officers  of  the  Church  130 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church  131 

Grant,  President  Heber  J     2 

Presents  changes,  2 — Stake  president  dies,  3 — Appropriations  increase, 
3 — New  hotel  erected,  3 — Blessings  through  payment  of  tithes,  4 — 
Appeals  for  honesty,  4 — Ward  and  stake  buildings  dedicated,  5 — 
Visits  Winters  grave,  5 — New  stake  building,  5 — Colorado  River 
Bridge,  6 — Visits  wards  and  missions,  6 — Coast  members  increase,  6 — 
Quotes  from  revelations,  7 — "Keep  commandments,"  7— Spirit  will 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


lead,  8 — Patience  and  study  necessary,  8 — A  marvelous  work  and 
a  wonder,  9— Thankful  for  testimony,  9. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   26 

Amplifying  sets  for  the  deaf,  26. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   47 

Radio  reception  at  American  Fork,  47. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   63 

Mission  presidents  to  speak,  63. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   69 

Authorities  who  are  absent,  69. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   84 

Sisters  to  address  the  conference,  84. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  112 

Radio  reception  at  Paris,  Idaho,  112 — Death  of  Patriarch  Robert  L. 
Bybee,  112. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  123 

Speakers  limited,  123. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  '.  129 

Radio  reception  at  Manti,  Utah,  129. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  129 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities,  129 — Presentation  of  General 
Officers,  130 — Presentation  of  General  Auxiliary  Officers,  131. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  131 

Gratitude  for  success  of  conference,  131 — Blessings  invoked,  132. 

%  Hart,  Elder  Charles  H   73 

*  Hyde,  Elder  Charles  H   64 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W     92 


Fundamental  doctrines,  92 — Upon  the  principle  of  revelation,  93 — A 
temple  building  church,  93 — Period  of  persecution,  94 — Various  Fac- 
tions, 95 — Hedrickites  or  Church  of  Christ,  96 — Soliciting  aid,  96 — 
A  house  but  not  a  temple,  96 — The  purpose  of  a  temple,  97 — Their 
offerings  accepted,  97 — In  the  tops  of  the  mountains,  97 — From  all 
parts  of  the  world,  98— The  United  Order,  98— The  New  Jerusalem, 

99 —  The  accomplishment  of  God's  purposes,  99— A  significant  thing, 

100 —  The  mountain  of  the  Lord's  house,  100 — Not  temples  of  the 


Lord,  101. 

Jenkins,  Elder  J.  Howard  102 

Jones,  Elder  Miles- L  127 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden   57 

Lillywhite,  Elder  John  P    121 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   79 


America's  chief  need — religion,  79 — What  is  wrong  with  America? 
79— Where' will  you  be?  79— Prison  records  of  crime,  80— The  wis- 
dom of  Lincoln,  80 — Our  greatest  need,  80 — Men  must  have  the  new 
birth,  80 — The  power  of  prayer,  81 — The  example  of  our  leaders,  81 
—"Seek  ye  the  Lord,"  81 — Not  faith  alone,  but  works,  82 — Chief 


INDEX  135 

aim  of  real  religion,  82 — We  seek  to  understand  youth,  83 — The 

well-balanced  life,  83 — Aims  of  President  Grant,  83. 

Martin,  Elder  Samuel     76 

McKay,  Elder  David  0   10 


The  joy  of  friendship,  10 — Meeting  God,  10 — In  the  brotherhood  of 
Christ,  10 — Sacrament  meetings,  11 — The  Lord's  supper,  11- — The 
significance  of  the  sacrament,  11 — The  bond  of  brotherhood,  12 — 
Communion  with  Christ,  13 — Divine  guidance,  13 — The  sacrament 
prayer,  13 — A  gentleman's  word  of  honor,  13 — Our  obligation,  14 — 


Adding  sin  to  sin,  14 — The  blessing,  IS— Summing  up,  15 — Gratitude 
for  membership  in  the  Church,  IS. 

McMurrin,  Elder  Joseph  W     16 

Moyle,  Elder  James  H  124 

Nibley,  President  Charles  W    115 

This  is  Zion,  1  IS — A  poor  man's  church,  116 — For  building  up  the 
kingdom,  117 — In  this  goodly  land,  118 — Signs  of  the  times,  119 — 
Blessings  invoked,  119. 

Peterson,  Elder  Joseph  L  120 

Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L     18 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   38 

The  works  of  God,  38 — Tempted  of  satan,  39— Man  to  have  free 
agency,  39 — Satan's  designs  and  purposes,  40 — A  warning  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  41 — A  sure  and  safe  lead,  41 — Triumph  of  God's 
work  assured,  42. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   70 

In  the  language  of  youth,  70 — Liberty  and  safety  through  obedience, 
70 — Manifestations  of  God's  truth,  71 — Teachers  of  understanding 
and  sympathy,  71 — A  proper  understanding  of  religious  principles,  72 
— Companionships  through  gospel  association,  72 — The  attitude  of 
the  Church  leaders  toward  youth,  72 — The  significance  and  blessing 
of  temples,  72— The  glorious  age  of  youth,  73. 

Roberts,  Elder  Brigham  H   86 

Robison,  Sister  Louise  Y     84 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting   48 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   70 

Smith,  Elder  David  A   34 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   22 

Gratitude  for  blessings  of  the  gospel,  22 — A  pure  atmosphere,  23 — 
Our  lives  enriched  by  service,  23 — Each  should  do  his  part,  24 — 
Thankful  for  love  of  associates  and  friends,  24 — The  Lord's  work,  25. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   60 

Duties  of  watchmen  on  the  towers,  60 — The  introduction  of  the 
sacrament,  60 — The  purpose  of  sacrament  meetings,  61 — Appropriate 
services,  61 — Solemn  assemblies,  62 — Covenants  and  obligations,  62, 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Talmage,  Elder  James  E    65 

Agency  and  commandments,  66 — Revelation  on  fundamentals,  66— 
Obedience  a  form  of  energy,  67 — A  masterly  generalization,  67 — 
Man's  nature  to  obey,  68 — Law  of  the  tithe — an  illustration,  68 — 
Reward  and  punishment — natural  effects,  69. 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting   92 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting    112 

Welling,  Elder  Arthur   128 

Wells,  Elder  John   53 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   30 

Whitney,  Elder  Orson  F   26 

Land  of  beauty,  26 — In  the  Northern  States,  26 — Addressing  the 
Rotarians,  27 — Brisbane's  admission,  27 — Man's  pre-existence  and 
eternal  destiny,  28 — The  "Mormon"  attitude,  29— Regarding  induce- 
ments, 29 — God's  greatest  gift,  30. 
Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar  112 


Can  you  answer  all  of  the  questions  that  are  put  to  you  about 
the  Church? 


The  Official 

History  of  the  Church 

Will  answer  many  of  these  questions  for  you. 

IN  SIX  LARGE  VOLUMES 

Compiled  by  the  Church  Historians  and  published  by  the  Church. 
Completing  the  First  Period. 

"The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with  introduction  and 
notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts. 

Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  and  Private  Library 


should  have  a  set. 

Cloth— Embossed,  per  vol  $2.50  Postpaid 

Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  vol   3.50 

Full  Morocco— Full  Gilt  Edge,  per  vol  6.00 


The  above  work  is  suggested  as  reference  in  connection  with  the 
study  of  Church  History  in  all  of  the  activities  of  the  Church. 

t^x^v^v^x^x^x^x^* 

For  the  reader  who  does  not  want  this  exhaustive  history,  we  rec- 
ommend the  one  volume  book  entitled 

Essentials  in  Church  History 

BY  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

"As  the  title  of  the  book  implies,  the  vital  and  essential  points  of 
history  and  doctrine  have  been  selected,  and  as  far  as  possible  arranged 
in  chronological  order." 

PRICE,  CLOTH  BINDING— $1.75 
LEATHER    $5.00 

Dcseret  Book  Company 

44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 


The  Romance  of  an  Old  Playhouse 

BY  GEORGE  D.  PYPER 

A  story  and  history  of  the  Old  Salt  Lake  Theater  as  recorded  by 
one  who  knew  it  the  best.  It  is  indeed  a  privilege  to  be  able  to  own 
such  a  wonderful  book  and  cherish  the  fond  memories  of  such  a  man 
as  Geo.  D.  Pyper. 

BUY  A  COPY  NOW  BEFORE  THE  PRICE  ADVANCES. 
NOW  $5.00  NET 


A  Book  You  Have  Been  Waiting  For 
An  India  Paper  Edition  of 

JESUS  THE  CHRIST 

THAT  EXCELLENT  TREATISE  BY 
ELDER  JAMES  E  TALMAGE 

Just  Fits  The  Pocket 
An  Excellent  Present  For  The  Missionary  Friend 

PRICE  $5.00  POSTPAID 


Dictionary  oi  the  Book  ot  Mormon 

BY  ELDER  GEO.  REYNOLDS 

An  indispensable  reference  book  for  all  Book  of  Mormon  students. 
Comprising  its  Biographical,  Geographical  and  other  proper  names. 

EVERY  HOME  LIBRARY  SHOULD  HAVE  A  COPY  OF  THIS 
HELPFUL  BOOK. 

PRICE  $1.50 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 


