r 


EIGHTY-SEVENTH  ANMJAL 


CONFERENCE 

Of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly 

Hall,    Salt   Lake    City,    Utah,   April 

6th,  7th  and  8th,  1917,  with  a  Full 

Report  of  the  Discourses 


25  Cents 

PUBLISHED  BY  THE  DESERET  NEWS 


&= 


=tf 


NEW  BOOKS 

RECENTLY   PUBLISHED 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIM 


WHITNEY'S  POPULAR  HISTORY  OF  UTAH 

A  complete  and  up-to-date  History  of  the  State  in 
one  handsome  volume. 

Over  600   pages,  250  views  and   portraits  of  the 
Founders  and  Builders  of  the  State. 

Large  Octavo  Vol.— Cloth  Embossed $2.00 

Large  Octavo  Vol. — Half  Morocco 2.50 

Postpaid  to  any  address. 

JESUS  THE  CHRIST— By  Elder  James  E.  Talmage 
A  study  of  the  Messiah  and  His  Mission  according 
to  Holy  Scriptures  both  Ancient  and  Modern, 

Regular  Edition,  three-quarter  leather...?. $1.50 

NEW  INDIA  PAPER  EDITION 

FRENCH  MOROCCO,  Divinity  Circuit,  red 
under  gold  edges,  headband  and  marker,  cloth 
lined    - $2.50 

FRENCH   MOROCCO,   Divinity    Circuit,   red 
under  edges,  headband  and  marker,  leather 
lined  to  edge 3.00 

TURKEY  MOROCCO,  Divinity  Circuit,  red  un- 
der gold  edges,  headband  and  marker,  leather 
lined  to  edge - 3.50 

WILD  ROSES— Prof.  Howard  R.  Driggs 

A  thrilling  story  of  the  West.    Postpaid,  $1.35. 


Eighty-Seventh  Annual  Conference 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


FIRST  DAY 


The  Eighty-seventh  Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  -of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake 
City,  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Friday, 
April  6,  1917,  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith  presiding. 

AUTHORITIES   PRESENT. 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  Anthon  H.  Lund  and 
Charles  W.  Penrose ;  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  Heber  J. 
Grant,  Rudger  Clawson,*  Hyrum 
M.  Smith,  George  Albert  Smith,* 
Orson  F.  Whitney,  David  O.  Mc- 
Kay, Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  Jr.,  James  E.  Talmage  and 
Stephen  L.  Richards;  Presiding 
Patriarch  Hyrum  G.  Smith ;  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy,  Seymour 
B.  Young,  **  J.  Golden  Kimball, 
Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  Mc- 
Murrin,  Charles  H.  Hart ;  and  Levi 


*Reed  Smoot  was  absent  in  Wash- 
ington; and  George  F.  Richards,  pre- 
siding over  the  European  Mission. 

**Brigham  H.  Roberts  was  present 
at   subsequent  meetings. 


Edgar  Young;  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric,  Charles  W.  Nibley, 
Orrin  P.  Miller,  and  David  A. 
Smith;  Assistant  Historians,  An- 
drew Jenson,  and  A.  Wm.  Lund. 
There  were  also  a  large  number  of 
Presidents  of  stakes  with  their 
counselors,  Presidents  of  Missions, 
Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  Wards,  and 
numerous  other  prominent  men  and 
women  representing  various  quor- 
ums and  organizations  of  the 
Church. 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  called 
to  order  the  assembly  which  filled 
the  great  Tabernacle  in  all  parts, 
including  the  galleries  and  choir 
stand. 


The 


and      congregation 
come,   ye   Saints." 


choir 
sang :      "Come, 

The  choir  was  composed  of  a  large 
number  of  representatives  of  dif- 
ferent choirs  throughout  the 
Church. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Ed- 
ward H.  Anderson. 

The     choir     and      congregation 
sang:     "O  say  what  is  truth?" 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

INTRODUCTION. 

I  am  very  happy  in  the  privilege  that  I  enjoy  of  meeting  with  you 
in  the  opening  session  of  the  87th  Annual  General  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  can  assure  you  we  feel 
highly  honored,  as  every  one  present  associated  with  the  Church  must 
feel,  in  witnessing  the  great  multitude  who  have  assembled  here  this  morn- 
ing in  honor  of  the  opening  of  this  conference.  I  fear  that  it  will  be 
somewhat  difficult  for  me,  to  get  my  voice  in  trim  sufficient  to  make 
myself  heard  and  understood.  It  is  no  small  task  to  attempt  to  address 
an  audience  like  this,  depending,  as  I  do,  upon  the  promptings  of  the 
spirit  that  may  pervade  our  conference  in  regard  to  what  I  shall  say. 
I  have  certainly  obeyed  in  this  respect,  the  injunction  of  the  Savior,  -as 
recorded  in  the  scriptures  (Matthew  10:19,  20):  "Take  no  thought 
how  or  what  ye  shall  speak,  for  it  shall  be  given  you  in  that  same  hour 
what  ye  shall  speak."  The  Spirit  will  give  the  impressions  that  are  needed 
as  far  as  the  time  will  permit  and  as  far  as  we  are  susceptible  to  the 
impressions  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  I  sincerely  do  hope  that  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  will  pervade  this  assembly  and  have  place  in  our  minds  and 
hearts,  that  we  may  rejoice  in  the  privilege  that  we  have  of  meeting 
together  under  so  favorable  circumstances,  witnessing,  as  we  do  in  our 
assembling  here,  the  many  blessings  and  privileges  the  Lord  has  vouch- 
safed unto  us. 

EXERCISE  PRUDENCE,  ECONOMY  AND  EXTREME  INDUSTRY. 

We  are  living  in  critical  times.  Conditions  are  such  as  practically 
defy  either  .description  or  complete  understanding,  for  we  can  see  today 
only  what  is  visible  to  us,  but  no  one  unless  inspired  can  foretell  today 
what  may  occur  tomorrow.  But  we  need  not  be  concerned  anxiously 
about  this,  for  the  duty  of  members  of  the  Church,  as  such,  and  their 
duty  as  men  and  women  in  the  communities  in  which  they  live,  and  as 
citizens  of  our  country,  are  of  the  greatest  importance  to  us  for  present 
consideration.  Our  duty  is  to  seek  for  peace  and  happiness  and  the  well 
being  of  the  whole  human  family,  as  far  as  it  lies  in  our  power  to  exert 
an  influence  to  this  end;  and  if  we  do  our  .duty  today,  as  members  of 
the  Church  and  as  citizens  of  our  state  and  of  the  adjoining  states  in 
which  we  live,  we  need  not  greatly  fear  what  tomorrow  may  bring  forth. 
One  of  the  things  that  impresses  me  as  a  matter  of  importance  to  be  con- 
sidered by  the  people  of  our  state  and  of  this  intermountain  region  is  a 
careful  course  of  prudence,  economy,  and  extreme  industry  and  careful- 
ness with  reference  to  the  production  and  conservation  of  the  necessaries 
of  life.  We  have  had  a  long  winter  which  has  extended  down  far  into 
the  lap  of  spring.  It  'is  possible  that  we  may  have  a  short  season  for 
growth  of  grain  and  cereals  of  all  kinds,  together  with  vegetables  and 
fruits,  that  are  needful  to  sustain  life.  We  should  realize  that  we  are 
dependent  upon  the  soil  and  upon  tilling  it,  the  labor  of  the  husbandman 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH.  3 

and  the  blessing  of  Almighty  God  upon  our  labors  and  upon  the  soil, 
for  the  necessaries  of  life.    We  cannot  subsist  without  these  things. 

I  think  that  the  united  faith  and  prayer  of  the  people  who  believe 
in  the  possibility  of  the  answer  to  the  prayers  of  those  who  are  devout  and 
who  have  faith  in  God,  should  be  lifted  to  the  Giver  of  all  Good,  that 
peace  may  continue  to  prevail  over  all  our  land,  and  that  prosperity  might 
attend  the  people  of  our  great  country ;  that  peace  may  also  be  restored 
to  all  the  nations  of  the  earth,  when  it  shall  be  the  purpose  and  the  will  of 
God'that  it  should  be.  I  think  it  is  our  duty  to  ask  the  blessing  of  the 
Lord  upon  the  labor  of  the  husbandman.  That  the  blessings  of  the  sea- 
son's fruitfulness  may  be  bestowed  upon  those  who  till  the  soil  and  who 
earn  the  bread  and  food  necessary  to  sustain  life.  In  years  gone  by, 
even  before  our  state  was  a  territory,  the  earliest  settlers  of  this  country 
were,  by  the  merciful  providences  of  the  Lord,  and  the  wise  counsel  of 
the  leaders  of  the  people,  in  a  position  to  help  their  neighbors  with  the 
necessaries  of  life.  While  many  of  them  in  the  south,  the  north,  and  in 
the  western  part  of  our  country,  were  searching  for  gold  and  precious 
metals,  things  that  would  not  in  themselves  sustain  life,  we  were  cultivat- 
ing the  soil,  producing  that  which  was  needful  for  them,  and  they  poured 
their  gold  into  our  laps  for  the  'food  thatlwe  gave  them  in  return,  to  sustain 
their  lives  and  to  enable  them  to  prosecute  their  labors.  I  hope  the  people 
of  this  state,  especially  the  Latter-day  Saints,  will  prove  themselves  to 
be  veritable  Josephs  in  Egypt,  that  when  necessity  stalks  abroad  through 
the  land,  the  needy  may  apply  to  us  for  that  which  is  necessary  for  their 
happiness  and  for  their  subsistence.  I  understand  that  the  authorities  at 
Washington  have  requested  those  in  charge  of  our  Agricultural  College, 
in  the  north,  to  exercise  all  the  influence  they  can  to  prevail  upon  the 
people  of  this  state  to  economize  and  to  produce,  save,  and  store  up,  to 
the  best  of  their  ability,  those  things  that  will  supply,  if  need  be,  even 
the  sinews  of  war,  if  war  should  come. 

THE    SPIRIT    WHICH    LATTER-DAY    SAINTS    SHOULD    MANIFEST    IN    WAR. 

Speaking  of  the  possibility  of  conflict,  of  war,  I  exhort  my  friends, 
the  people  of  our  country,  especially  in  this  intermountain  region,  to 
maintain  above  all  other  things  the  spirit  of  humanity,  of  love,  and  of 
peace-making,  that  even  though  they  may  be  called  into  action  they  will 
not  demolish,  override  and  destroy  the  principles  which  we  believe  in, 
which  we  have  tried  to  inculcate,  and  which  we  are  exhorted  to  main- 
tain ;  peace  and  good  will  toward  all  mankind,  though  we  may  be  brought 
into  action  with  the  enemy.  I  want  to  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  who 
may  enlist,  and  whose  services  the  country  may  require,  that  when  they 
become  soldiers  of  the  State  and  of  the  Nation  that  they  will  not  forget 
that  they  are  also  soldiers  of  the  Cross,  that  they  are  minisers  of  life  and 
not  of  death;  and  when  they  go  forth,  they  may  go  forth  in  the  spirit 
of  defending  the  liberties  of  mankind  rather  than  for  the  purpose 
of  destroying  the  enemy.  If  we  could  convert  them  to  peaceful  ways  and 
to  the  love  of  peace  without  destroying  them,  we  would  become  saviors 
of  men.     And  it  is  abominable  that  men  who  engage  in  the  great  and 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

grand  and  necessary  duty  of  protecting  and  guarding  our  Nation  from 
the  -encroachments  of  wicked  enemies,  cruel  and  destructive  foes,  should 
not  maintain  among  themselves  lives  of  honor,  virtue,  purity  and  of  im- 
munity from  sin  and  crime  of  every  kind.  It  is  a  disgraceful  thought 
that  a  man  to  become  a  soldier  should  become  a  rake  and  abandon  him- 
self to  crime  and  wickedness.  Let  the  soldiers  that  go  out  from  Utah 
be  and  remain  men  of  honor.  And  when  they  are  called  obey  the  call, 
and  manfully  meet  the  duty,  the  dangers,  or  the  labor,  that  may  be  re- 
quired of  them,  or  that  they  may  be  set  to  do;  but  do  it  with  an  eye 
single  to  the  accomplishment  of  the  good  that  is  aimed  to  be  accomplished, 
and  not  with  the  blood-thirsty  desire  to  kill  and  to  destroy. 

OUR  MISSION  IS  TO  HELP  THE  OPPRESSED  AND  NEEDY. 

Charity,  or  love,  is  the  greatest  principle  in  existence.  If  we  can  lend 
a  helping  hand  to  the  oppressed,  if  we  can  aid  those  who  are  despondent 
and  in  sorrow,  if  we  can  uplift  and  ameliorate  the  condition  of  mankind, 
it  is  our  misssion  to  do  it,  it  is  an  essential  part  of  our  religion  to  do  it. 
And  I  say  to  our  friends  present  that  we  have  an  organization  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  that  is  perfect  in  its  opera- 
tion, by  which  we  may  call  today  to  almost  the  whole  Church,  for  aid,  and 
tomorrow  we  will  receive  returns  with  the  generous  contributions  that  are 
freely  given  for  a  good  cause,  and  it  will  cost  nobody  a  cent.  Every 
dime  contributed  for  the  benefit  of  the  poor  goes  to  the  poor,  and  is  not 
consumed  by  charitable  organizations,  who  collect  and  handle  means  in- 
tended for  the  poor,  and  are  paid  for  their  services,  thus  absorbing  a 
large  percentage  of  the  means  contributed  for  the  benefit  of  the  poor, 
by  those  who  are  not  poor.  I  wish  to  announce  that  to  our  friends.  The 
Latter-day  Saints  know  this,  they  understand  it.  They  have  recollection 
of  recent  events  in  which,  within  twenty-four  hours  or  thereabouts,  the 
people  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  contributed 
somewhere  near  $35,000,  and  it  was  sent  to  the  afflicted  people  of  the 
east  that  were  suffering  in  consequence  of  war,  and  it  was  put  into  hands 
who  would  distribute  it  wisely  to  those  who  needed,  without  cost  to  any- 
body ;  and  a  portion  of  that  fund,  which  was  not  distributed,  remains  to  be 
dealt  out  to  those  who  are  really  in  need  as  their  circumstances  require. 

A   SPIRIT  OF   LOVE  AND  TOLERATION    ENJOINED. 

I  should  not  occupy  too  much  of  your  time,  but  I  have  another 
thought  or  two  that  I  wish  to  announce,  merely  as  a  matter  of  reference 
or  as  a  text,  perhaps,  for  those  who  may  follow,  if  the  Spirit  so*leads,  to 
amplify.  We  admonish,  we  beseech  our  brothers  and  sisters  in  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ,  not  only  to  honor  themselves  by  a  proper  course  of 
Hving,  but  also  to  honor  and  love  and  be  charitable  to  your  neighbors, 
every  one  of  you.  We  admonish  you  not  only  to  keep  the  greatest  of 
all  the  commandments  that  has  ever  been  given  of  God  to  man,  to  love 
the  Lord  your  God,  with  all  your  heart  and  mind  and  strength,  but  we 
exhort  you  also  to  observe  that  second  law,  next  unto  it,  to  love  your 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH.  5 

neighbors  as  yourselves ;  return  good  for  evil,  do  not  revile  others  be- 
cause you  are  or  may  be  reviled.  We  have  no  need  to  tear  down  the 
houses  of  other  people  (using  this  expression  as  a  symbol).  We  are 
perfectly  willing  that  they  should  live  in  the  homes  they  have  erected  for 
themselves,  and,we  will  try  to  show  them  a  better  way.  While  we  will  not 
condemn  that  which  they  love  and  cherish  above  all  other  things  in 
the  world,  we  will  endeavor  to  show  them  a  better  way  and  build  them  a 
better  house  and  then  invite  them  kindly,  in  the  spirit  of  Christ,  of  true 
Christianity,  to  enter  the  better  dwelling.  That  is  the  principle,  and  I 
wish  to  impress  it,  upon  you  this  morning.  I  desire  to  impress,  if  I  can, 
upon  the  minds  of  the  parents  the  necessity  of  properly  instructing  and 
teaching  their  clrldren  with  reference  to  this  glorious  principle,  charity 
and  love,  that  love  for  our  neighbor  that  will  enable  us  to  cherish  his 
rights  as  sacredly  as  we  cherish  our  own,  to  defend  the  rights  and  the 
liberties  of  our  neighbor,  as  we  would  defend  our  own  rights  and  liber- 
ties, put  up  the  fallen  bars  in  the  fences  of  our  neighbors  that  are  care- 
lessly left  down,  just  as  we  would  put  our  own  bars  up  surrounding  our 
own  fields,  in  order  to  protect  our  crops  from  the  ravages  of  stray  ani- 
mals. That  is  a  simple  thing  to  say,  but  there  is  a  meaning  in  it,  and  it 
is  a  very  important  thing  for  us  to  observe.  Many  of  us  are  farmers.  I 
have  heard  of  some  people  who  were  so  far  from  a  love  for  this  principle 
of  kindness  that  they  would  prefer  to  tear  down  the  fence  and  let  down 
the  bars  of  their  neighbors  in  order  that  they  might  receive  damage, 
rather  than  to  put  up  the  bars  and  try  to  protect  them  as  they  would  wish 
to  be  protected  themselves. 

PARENTS  SHOULD  TEACH  THEIR  CHILDREN  BELIEF  IN  CHRIST,  AND  LOYALTY 

TO  LAW  AND  COUNTRY. 

Fathers  and  mothers  in  Israel,  will  you  try  to  teach  your  children  that 
there  is  no  other  name  given  under  heaven  by  which  we  have  such  a 
glorious  hope  of  the  resurrection  from  death  to  life,  or  assurance  in  the 
principle  and  promise  of  eternal  exaltation  i,n  the  Kingdomof  God  than  that 
of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God.  We  are  a  Christian  people,  we  believe  in 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  we  feel  that  it  is  our  duty  to  acknowledge  him 
as  our  Savior  and  Redeemer.  Teach  it  to  your  children.  Teach  them  that 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  restored  again  to  the  earth  the  priesthood  that 
was  held  by  Peter  and  James  and  John,  who  were  ordained  under  the 
hands  of  the  Savior  himself.  Teach  them  that  Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet, 
when  only  a  boy,  was  chosen  and  called  of  God  to  lay  the  foundations  of 
the  Church  of  Christ  in  the  world,  to  restore  the  holy  priesthood,  and 
the  ordinances  of  the  gospel  which  are  necessary  to  qualify  men  to  enter 
into  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  Teach  your  children  to  respect  their  neigh- 
bors. Teach  your  ch'ldren  to  respect  their  bishops  and  the  teachers  that 
come  to  their  homes  to  teach  them.  Teach  your  children  to  respect  old 
age,  gray  hairs,  and  feeble  frames.  Teach  them  to  venerate  and 
to  hold  in  honorable  remembrance  their  parents  and  help  all  those 
who  are  helpless  and  needy.  Teach  your  children,  as  you  have 
been    taught    yourselves,    to    honor    the    priesthood     which    you    hold, 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

the  priesthood  which  we  hold  as  elders  in  Israel.  Teach  your  children  to 
honor  themselves,  teach  your  children  to  honor  the  principle  of  presidency 
by  which  organizations  are  held  intact  and  by  which  strength  and  power 
for  the  well  being  and  happiness  and  upbuilding  of  the  people  is  pre- 
served. Teach  your  children  that  when  they  go  to  school  they  should 
honor  their  teachers  in  that  which  is  true  and  honest,  in  that  which 
is  manly  and  womanly  and  is  worth  while ;  and  also  teach  them  to  avoid 
the  bad  examples  of  their  teachers  out  of  school  and  the  bad  principles 
of  men  and  women  who  are  sometimes  teachers  in  schools.  Teach  your 
children  to  honor  the  law  of  God  and  the  law  of  the  state  and  the  law 
of  our  country.  Teach  them  to  respect  and  hold  in  honor  those  who  are 
chosen  by  the  people  to  stand  at  their  head  and  execute  justice  and  ad- 
minister the  law.  Teach  them  to  be  loyal  to  their  country,  loyal  to  right- 
eousness and  uprightness  and  honor,  and  thereby  they  will  grow  up  to 
be  men  and  women  choice  above  all  the  men  and  women  of  the  world. 

REMEMBER  THE  BLESSINGS  OF  TEMPLE  ORDINANCES. 

And  as  Latter-day  Saints,  as  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
do  not  forget  those  ordinances  of  the  gospel  which  require  proper  recog- 
nition in  order  that  we  may  be  placed  unexceptionably  before  the  Lord. 
The  Lord  has  revealed  to  us  a  principle  by  which,  by  the  proper  and 
righteous  exercise  of  divine  authority,  we  may  be  joined  together  for  time 
and  all  eternity.  Teach  your  children  that  principle,  that  they  may  live 
worthy  to  go  and  receive  the  benefits  and  blessings  of  these  ordinances. 
.  Teach  your  children  and  let  yourselves  be  taught  the  fact  that  it  is  neces- 
sary for  you  to  become  saviors  upon  Mount  Zion  for  those  who  have 
died  without  the  knowledge  of  the  gospel,  and  that  the  temples  of  God 
in  these  mountains,  and  that  are  being  reared  in  other  lands,  have  been 
built  and  are  designed  expressly  for  the  performance  of  these  sacred 
ordinances  which  are  necessary  for  those  who  have  passed  away  without 
them.  Do  not  forget  these  things.  Keep  them  in  mind  for  they  are 
necessasry  for  us. 

A  TESTIMONY  TO  THE  PURITY,   HONOR,  AND  INTEGRITY  OF  LEADERS  OF  THE 

CHURCH. 

There  are  many  things  that  might  be  said,  but  I  do  not  want  to 
weary  you.  I  want  to  bear  my  testimony.  I  have  served  from  my  youth 
up  along  with  such  men  as  Brigham  Young,  Heber  C.  Kimball,  Willard 
Richards,  George  A.  Smith,  Jedediah  M.  Grant,  Daniel  H.  Wells,  John 
Taylor,  George  Q.  Cannon,  and  Wilford  Woodruff  and  his  associates, 
and  Lorenzo  Snow  and  his  associates,  the  members  of  the  twelve  apostles, 
the  seventies  and  the  high  priests  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  for  more  than  sixty  years ;  and,  that  my  word  may  be 
heard  by  every  stranger  within  the  sound  of  my  voice,  I  want  to  testify  to 
you  that  better  men  than  these  have  never  lived,  within  the  range  of  my 
acquaintance.  I  can  so  testify  because  I  was  familiar  with  these  men, 
grew  up  from  babyhood  with  them,  associated  with  them  in  council,  in 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH.  7 

prayer  and  supplication,  and  in  travel  from  settlement  to  settlement 
through  our  country  here,  and  in  crossing  the  plains.  I  have  heard  them 
in  private  and  in  public,  and  I  bear  my  testimony  to  you  that  they  were 
men  of,  God,  true  men,  pure  men,  God's  noble  men.  Virtuous  men, 
who  never  were  either  tempted  to  .do  evil  or  tempted  others  to  do  wrong, 
men  whose  examples  and  whose  lives  were  above  reproach,  except  in 
what  corrupt,  wicked  or  ignorant  men  supposed  they  saw  and  presumed 
to  denounce  as  wrong  in  them.  It  was  a  crime  in  the  eyes  of  lecherous 
scoundrels  that  President  Young  should  have  more  wives  than  one.  But 
they  were  his  wives,  and  he  honored  them,  and  their  children,  and  fed, 
clothed  and  educated  them.  He  did  not  desert,  nor  abuse,  nor  abandon 
them;  and  because  of  this,  extremely  pious  people  and  others  have  con- 
demned him.  Some  of  the  rest  of  us  have  come  under  similar  condem- 
nation. I  know  that  this  was  a  true  principle  with  them  and  that  they 
did  not  sin,  because  they  did  not  do  violence  to  anybody;  neither  did  they 
wrong  anybody ;  but  that  is  a  thing  of  the  past.  Others  have  complained 
and  do  complain,  because  certain  men,  who  were  fortunate  enough  to 
have  families  when  the  people  of  the  state  capitulated  with  the  govern- 
ment of  the  United  States,  and  President  Woodruff  announced  the  dis- 
continuance of  plural  marriages,  have  taken  care  of  their  wives  and 
their  children  that  were  left  with  them.  I  want  to  tell  you  just  once 
more,  and  would  tell  it  before  all  the  world  if  I  could,  that  I  believe  with 
all  my  heart,  that  if  any  man  ought  to  be  damned  in  this  world,  it  is  the 
man  that  will  abandon,  the  mother  of  his  children.  We  do  not  do  it, 
we  will  not  do  it,  the  Lord  Almighty  helping  us  not  to  do  it.  Now,  pardon 
me  for  digressing  so  far  from  the  thought  that  was  first  in  my  mind. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  these  men,  that  they  were  good  men,  pure 
men,  honest  men,  leaders,  builders,  teachers  of  righteousness  by  precept 
and  by  example.    They  live  in  my  memory  as  sacred  as  my  life. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  you  that  no  man  has  ever  yet  been  able,  so 
far  as  it  is  recorded  in  history,  to  bring  to  pass  an  organization  like 
that  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  as  it  was  organ- 
ized by  Joseph  Smith,  the  boy  prophet.  I  testify  that  Joseph  Smith  re- 
vealed anew,  and  so  to  speak,  re-enacted  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
nothing  else,  even  including  the  injunction  of  the  Master,  "if  ye  were 
Abraham's  seed,  ye  would  do  the  works  of  Abraham." 

GOD  THE  FATHER  AND  JESUS  CHRIST  HIS  SON. 

I  accept  Jesus  of  Nazareth  as  the  only  begotten  Son  of  God  in  the 
flesh.  This  is  a  great  principle,  though  it  seems  hard  for  some  people 
to  understand  it — those  who  believe  in  the  foolish  notion  that  God  is  a 
"vapor,"  if  )?ou  please,  ether,  electricity,  "energy"  or  anything  else  you 
might  call  him  or  it,  and  that  he  fills  the  immensity  of  space,  is  every- 
where present  at  the  same  time,  etc.,  etc.  It  is  difficult  indeed  for  those 
who  believe  this  foolish  doctrine  to  believe  that  Christ  could  be  the  Son 
of  God ;  that  God,  be:ng  only  spirit,  or  "energy,"  as  defined  by  a  certain 
learned  preacher,  could  beget  a  son  in  "his  own  likeness,"  and  "image," 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

and  the  Son  also  be  in  the  likeness  and  image  of  mortal  man.  The  apos- 
tles of  Jesus  Christ,  his  witnesses,  declared  it,  and  he  himself  has  declared 
it  by  his  own  voice  in  the  day  in  which  we  live,  but  it  is  hard  to  get  peo- 
ple to  understand  how  that  nondecsript  creation  of  man's  ignorance  called 
"God"  by  the  sectarian  world,  which  fills  the  immensity  of  space  and  is 
everywhere  present  at  the  same  time,  can  beget  a  Son  in  the  form  of  him- 
self and  at  the  same  time  in  the  form  of  man.  But  when  they  hear  the 
truth,  as  it  was  revealed  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  by  Christ 
himself,  and  as  it  is  revealed  in  the  testimony  of  the  ancient  scriptures, 
that  God  "created  man  in  his  own  likeness,  in  his  own  image,  male  and 
female  created  he  them,"  it  is  hard  to  get  men  to  understand  that  Almighty 
God,  who  possesses  all  knowledge,  all  wisdom,  and  all  power,  can  extend 
his  power,  his  Spirit,  his  majesty  and  glory  and  .dominion  over  all  his 
creations,  while  he  himself  sits  upon  his  throne — it  is  hard  to  make  them 
understand  it,  and  yet  that  is  the  truth.  We  want  to  teach  those  prin- 
ciples to  our  children,  and  inculcate  the  teaching  of  the  same  things  to 
our  children's  children  to  the  latest  generation,  that  they  may  grow  up 
in  the  knowledge  of  God  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  he  has  sent  unto  the 
world,  whom  to  know  is  life  eternal. 

THE  NEW  CHURCH   OFFICE  BUILDTNG. 

I  will  give  way  to  my  brethren  to  speak  as  the  Spirit  may  impress 
them ;  but,  before  I  conclude.  I  have  had  jotted  down  a  few  statements  of 
facts  which  I  presume  will  be  interesting,  at  least  to  those  present  at 
this  conference. 

As  you  know,  for  the  last  sixty  odd  years,  the  Church  has  had 
its  headquarters  in  the  little  old  buildings,which  were  erected  by  President 
Brigham  Young,  away  back  in  the  early  50's,  and  which  at  the  time  served 
the  purpose  very  well,  and  have  continued  to  .do  so  until  now.  Still,  they 
have  become  worn  with  age  and  not  quite  in  keeping  with  the  progress 
of  other  things.  A  couple  of  years  ago  we  determined  to  construct  a 
building  which  would  afford  office  room  for  our  various  organizations. 
Previously,  however,  a  very  creditable  building  had  been  erected  for  the 
Presiding  Bishopric,  and  for  the  Relief  Societies  and  other  organizations 
of  the  Church.  But  we  concluded  that  we  would  build  a  house  that 
would  furnish  suitable  accommodations  for  the  Presidency  and  others, 
and  at  the  same  time  would  be  a  monument  of  the  real  character  of 
the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  I  am  happy  to  say  that  we  have  prac- 
tically completed  it,  although  we  have  been  delayed  on  account  of  the  lack 
of  facility  on  the  part  of  some  of  those  who  have  contracted  to  furnish 
material  with  which  to  complete  the  adornment  of  the  walls.  We  are 
waiting  for  marble.  I  am  pleased  to  say  that  we  have  used,  in  the  adorn- 
ment of  the  interior  walls  of  our  building,  as  far  as  it  was  possible,  home 
materials— marble  and  onyx  and  precious  stones  that  exist  in  great  abund- 
ance in  Utah,  and  it  is  therefore  practically  a  home-made  building.  There 
has  been  expended  for  the  erection  and  equipment  of  the  new  Church 
Office  Building,  $864,562. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


TEMPLES  AND   OTHER   CHURCH    BUILDINGS. 

There  has  been  expended,  up  to  date,  on  the  erection  of  the  new 
temple  at  Cardston,  Alberta,  Canada,  $209,668.,  and  it  is  still  in  process 
of  erection. 

There  has  been  expended  in  the  erection  of  the  temple  in  the  Ha- 
waiian Islands,  and  which  will  be  completed  during  the  current  year, 
$50,520. 

There  has  been  paid  out  of  the  tithes  during-  the  year  1916  for  the 
support  of  the  missions,  $213,610.  In  addition  to  this,  property  has  been 
purchased  in  Brooklyn,  New  York,  and  a  mission  house  erected  thereon, 
which  has  cost  the  Church  $51,802. 

The  Church  has  purchased  mission  property  in  the  South  African 
Mission  during  the  year  which  has  cost  $9,333. 

The  Church  has  purchased,  also,  additional  real  estate  adjoining  our 
mission  property  at  Independence,  Missouri,  at  a  cost  of  $5,000. 

We  have  paid  for  a  new  chapel  in  St.  Louis,  Missouri,  $6,400. 

In  the  year  1915,  the  Thomas  D.  Dee  Memorial  Hospital,  of  Ogden, 
was  transferred  to  the  Church,  and  since  that  time  there  as  been  ex- 
pended for  its  maintenance  and  erection  of  a  beautiful  nurses'  home, 
$33,587. 

During  the  year  1916  the  Church  has  contributed  toward  the  erection 
of  ward  and  stake  meeting  houses  $177,736. 

OTHER  EXPENDITURES. 

We  have  not  been  unmindful  of  the  poor,  not  only  in  the  stakes  of 
Zion,  but  in  the  missions.  There  has  been  expended  for  charity  through 
the  different  Church  activities,  for  the  year  1916,  $308,951. 

We  have  continued  to  maintain  the  Church  schools,  and  there  has 
been  paid  out  for  this  purpose,  during  1916,  $365,832. 

No  doubt  the  Church  Auditing  Committee  will  give  you  other  items, 
and  more  in  detail,  of  the  expenditures  which  have  all  been  made  for 
the  benefit  of  the  Church. 

MISCELLANEOUS  STATISTICAL  AND  OTHER   INFORMATION. 

There  has  been  the  usual  increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Church. 
Information  concerning  the  increase  in  the  missions  is  incomplete,  this 
year,  in  consequence  of  the  Great  War. 

At  the  close  of  the  year  1916  there  were  819  wards  and  73  organized 
stakes  of  Zion,  and  there  were  21  missions  There  were  in  the  mission 
field,  one  patriarch,  61  high  priests,  209  seventies,  876  elders,  and  188  lady 
missionaries,  making  a  total  of  1,335  missionaries  in  the  field. 

There  has  been  a  very  marked  improvement  in  ward  teaching,  both 
in  the  quality  of  the  teaching  and  in  the  regularity  of  the  visits  to  the 
homes  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  by  the  teachers.  Some  of  the  stakes  of 
Zion  have  had  every  family  visited  every  month  of  the  year,  and  in  two 
or  three  stakes  of  Zion,  every  family  has  been  visited  every  month  for 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

several  years  past.  This  regular  work  of  the  ward  teachers  is  having 
its  effect  in  improved  attendance  at  sacrament  meetings,  priesthood  meet- 
ings, and  other  ward  and  stake  activities.  As  you  know,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  the  main  object  of  this  work,  the  visiting  6f  the  teachers 
to  the  homes  and  the  families  of  the  Church,  is  to  ascertain  whether  there 
is  any  need  there,  whether  any  are  sick  or  poor  or  faithless,  or  in  any 
way  in  need  of  succor  and  assistance,  that  that  which  is  needful  might  be 
rendered  unto  them. 

A  considerable  increase  is  shown  in  the  labors  of  our  people  in  the 
temples.  During  the  year  1916,  419,257  ordinances  were  performed  in 
our  temples.  Of  that  number,  66,035  were  performed  in  the  Manti  tem- 
ple; 131,805  in  the  Logan  temple;  28,003  in  the  St.  George  temple,  and 
193,414  in -the  Salt  Lake  temple.  In  1916,  the  ordinances  performed 
were  88,000  in  excess  of  the  previous  year,  and  is  the  largest  in  the 
history  of  the  Church. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  Hospital  has  reached  its  full  capacity  in  the 
accommodation  of  patients.  The  Dee  Hospital  has  also  been  running  at 
its  full  capacity. 

Since  our  last  conference,  the  Idaho  stake  of  Zion  has  been  organ- 
ized, being  part  of  the  Bannock  stake,  with  Nelson  J.  Hogan,  president ; 
and  the  following  wards  have  been  organized : 

Ogden  13th,  Ogden  stake  ;  Richmond  South,  Benson  stake  ;  Highland 
Park,  Granite  stake;  Montpelier  3rd,  Bear  Lake  stake;  Meadowville, 
Idaho  stake;  Crystal,  Pocatello  stake;  Marysvale,  Sevier  stake;  Farm- 
ington  North,  South  Davis  stake. 

Elder  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  Pio- 
neer stake,  and  Elder  S.  Norman  Lee,  president  of  the  Box  Elder  stake. 

President  Wm.  Gardner,  of  the  New  Zealand  mission,  who  returned 
in  1916,  was  succeeded  by  Elder  Jas.  Lambert  as  mission  president. 

Elder  Hyrum  W.  Valentine,  president  of  the  Swiss  and  German  Mis- 
sion, has  succeeded  in  getting  home  safely,  and  Elder  Angus  J.  Cannon 
has  taken  hjs  place  as  president  of  the  Swiss-German  Mission.  By  the 
way,  we  have  been  warned  that  it  was  not  prudent  to  use  the  word 
"German"  mission,  in  connection  with  the  appointment  of  our  elders,  as 
our  dear  English  neighbors  were  a  little  jealous  of  that  name.  We  there- 
fore dropped  the  word  "German,"  and  it  now  is  the  Swiss  M:ssion. 

Since  our  last  conference,  President  Francis  M.  Lyman  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  has  passed  away,  and  Elder  Heber  J.  Grant  has 
been  appointed  President  of  the  Twelve.  Elder  Stephne  L.  Richards 
has  been  appointed  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

Elder  Joseph  S.  Wells,  of  the  General  Church  Auditing  Committee, 
has  also  passed  away. 

Of  the  presidents  of  the  stakes  of  Zion,  we  have  lost  by  the  hand  of 
death  since  our  last  conference,  President  Oleen  N.  Stohl  of  the  Box 
Elder  stake,  President  William  McLachlan  of  the  Pioneer  stake,  and 
President  George  E.  Stoddard  of  the  Union  stake. 

The  following  brethren  and  a  sister  laboring  in  the  mission  field 
have  passed  away: 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH.  11 

Horace  S.  Brown,  of  Kanab,  Utah,  died  in  South  Carolina,  Southern 
States  Mission,  April  6,  1916,  typhoid  fever. 

Wilford  I.  Freckleton  of  Eureka,  Utah,  died  in  Hull,  British  Mis- 
sion, February  27,  1917,  of  spinal  meningitis. 

Herald  Eugene  Smith,  of  Provo,  Utah,  died  at  Honolulu,  Hawaiian 
Mission,  September  11,  1916,  of  kidney  trouble. 

Leonard  J.  Wayment,  of  Warren,  Utah,  died  July  21,  1916,  upon 
reaching  home  from  the  British  Mission. 

Sister  Adella  Haynie,  of  Manassa,  Colorado,  died  at  Saint  Louis. 
Missouri,  Feb.  7,  1916. 

NO    NATIONALITIES    AMONG    THE    LATTER-DAY    SAINTS. 

In  speaking  of  nationalities  we  all  understand  or  should  that  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  there  is  neither  Greek,  nor 
Jew,  nor  Gentile;  in  other  words,  there  is  neither  Scandinavian,  nor- Swiss, 
nor  German,  nor  Russian,  nor  British,  nor  any  other  nationality.  We  have 
become  brothers  in  the  household  of  faith,  and  we  should  treat  the 
people  from  these  nations  that  are  at  war  with  each  other,  with  due  kind- 
ness and  consideration.  It  is  nothing  but  natural  that  people  who  are 
born  in  a  land,  though  they  may  have  emigrated  from  it,  who  have  left 
their  kindred  there,  many  of  them,  that  they  will  naturally  have  a  tender 
feeling  toward  their  Fatherland.  But  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  have 
come  from  England,  and  from  France  and  from  Germany  and  Scandi- 
navia and  Holland,  into  this  country,  no  matter  what  their  country  may 
he  involved  in,  it  is  not  our  business  to  distinguish  them  in  any  way 
by  criticism  or  by  complaint  toward  them,  or  by  condemnation,  because 
of  the  place  where  they  were  born.  They  could  not  help  where  they 
were  born,  and  they  have  come  here  to  be  Latter-day  Saints,  not  to  be 
Germans,  nor  to  be  Scandinavians,  nor  to  be  English  or  French,  nor  to 
belong  to  any  other  country  in  the  world.  They  have  come  here  to  be 
members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  good 
and  true  citizens  of  the  United  States,  and  of  the  several  states  in  which 
they  live,  and  other  places  throughout  the  world,  where  Latter-day 
Saints  are  building  homes  for  themselves. 

I  have  heard  the  story  that  a  poor  girl  was  actually  denied  employ- 
ment, in  an  American  household,  because  she  happened  to  be  horn  in 
a  foreign  land,  and  because  there  is  such  a  great  prejudice  wrought  in 
the  minds  of  some  of  the  people  against  that  country — not  against  the 
people ;  the  people  are  innocent,  the  people  are  blameless.  You  must 
not  condemn  the  people,  however  much  you  may  judge  and  condemn 
their  leaders,  who  place  their  people  in  jeopardy,  and  demand  their  life 
blood  for  their  maintenance  in  position  of  prominence  and  power.  Their 
leaders  are  to  blame,  not  the  people.  The  people  that  embrace  the  gospel 
are  innocent  of  these  things,  and  they  ought  to  be  respected  by  Latter- 
day  Saints  everywhere.  Treat  our  neighbors,  our  brethren  and  sisters 
that  have  come  to  Zion  for  the  purpose  of  worshiping  God  according 
to  the  dictates  of  their  conscience,  like  Latter-day  Saints,  not  as  English, 
or  French,  or  Scandinavians,  or  Germans.    They  are  Latter-day  Saints. 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

They  are  our  brethren  and  our  sitsers,  our  neighbors,  and  they  are  help- 
ing to  build  up  this  great  country  of  ours,  and  we  must  respect  them 
and  uphold  them  in  the  purest  kindness,  love  and  compassion,  and  with 
sorrow  that  their  native  countries  are  in  the  terrible  plight  that  they  are, 
for  which  they  are  not  responsible. 

THE  TRUTH   HAS   MADE  US  FREE. 

May  God  bless  you.  Forgive  me  for  trespassing  so  long  upon  your 
valued  time.  I  feel  in  my  heart  the  truth,  I  believe  I  am  right  with  the 
help  of  God.  I  claim  nothing  for  myself.  I  am  nothing  of  myself,  but 
the  truth  has  made  me  free,  and  I  thank  God  for  it.  I  can  face  my 
brother  and  my  sister  anywhere  in  the  world,  in  life  or  death  with  the 
consciousness  that  I  have  never  wronged  one  of  my  fellow  beings  that  I 
know  of,  and  I  think  I  know.  I  therefore  feel  that  I  am  right;  and  if  so 
— it  is  tdue  to  the  gospel,  and  to  my  association  with  men  of  God,  all  the 
way  down  from  my  childhood,  and  I  am  thankful  for  it.  I  feel  proud  and 
grateful  and  most  happy  that  I  am  associated  with  you.  I  look  upon 
the  faces  of  this  multitude  of  men  before  me  and  I  recognize  in  them, 
as  every  honest  man  must,  the  features  and  faces  of  noble,  honest  men ; 
men  who  have  lived  pure  lives ;  and  the  women  are  the  best  that  ever 
lived.  There  are  no  wives  better  than  our  wives.  There  are  no  mothers 
better  than  our  mothers,  no  sisters  better  than  our  sisters,  nor  any  quite 
so  good,  as  we  believe.  They  are  the  best  in  all  the  world.  That  is  my 
testimony.    God  bless  you,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.     Amen. 

A  solo:      "I  am  a  pilgrim,"  was  Now,  behold,  a  marvelous  work  is 

sung  by  B.  H.  Roberts.  *bout  ,to  come  forth  among  the  chil- 

°     J  dren  of  men;  therefore,  (J  ye  that  em- 

bark in  the  service  of  God,   see  that 
ye   serve   him   with    all    your     heart, 
PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND.       might,    mind    and    strength,    that    ye 

may    stand   blameless   before    God    at 

An  injunction  to  those  who  desire  to  ^Therefore'if  ye  have  desires  to  serve 
serve    God-Counsel   to   those   who  God          are  caI]ed  tQ  the  WQrk 
may   be   called   into   war-To   be   a  For  be]lold  the  fie]d  .    white  a]read 
soldier  does  not  mean  that  one  must  t     harvest    and  x      he  that  thrusteth 
cast  aside  one  s  ideas  of  right,  mor-  .     hig  sickle  with  his  m-  M   the  game 
ahty,    and    godliness-We     do     not  ,       th         .     store  th      he         ;  h       t 
love  war,  but  will  do  our  part  in  the  but  brin£eth  salvatii0n  t0  hTs  soul; 
defense    of    our    country— We    cele-  And  faith    h           charit       and    ^ 
brate     today    the     birthday   of   the  with    an              £  j     t      th        ,            f 
Church-Reasons    for    early    evolu-  God           uf     himBfor  the  work 
tion    in     Church    government-The  Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge, 
plans  for  perfect  organization  were  t,emperance,   patience,  brotherly  kind- 
revealed  from  the  first    and  did  not  ne       godI;ness,  charity,  humility,  dili- 
have   their   origin   and   development  eence 
in  the  ideas  of  men.  Ask  and  ye  sha„  receive>  knock  and 

_       ...  ,  .  .     .  it   shall  be   opened  unto  you.     Amen. 

I  will  read  part  of  a  revelation 

given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith         The  injunction    here     given    to 

a  year  or  more  before  the  Church     those  who  want  to  serve  God  cor- 

was  organized:  responds  exactly  w?th  the  counsel 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


13 


given  us  this  morning  by  our  Presi- 
dent. I  endorse  what  he  has  said, 
and  I  know  you  have  all  felt  that 
what  he  has  counseled  us  to  do,  we 
ought  to  do.  In  regard  to  the  crit- 
ical time  in  which  we  are  living,  I 
hope  that  we  will  remember  these 
virtues  which  the  Lord  has  com- 
manded us  to  cultivate.  Many 
things  may  come  about  which  may 
cause  feelings  and  passions  to  rise 
against  those  with  whom  our  na- 
tion is  at  war,  but  we  want  to  re- 
member that  those  with  whom  we 
are  associated  religiously,  be  they  of 
whatever  nation  they  may,  are  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  Now  in  this  and 
other  states  where  there  are  Latter- 
day  Saints,  we  have  a  splendid  cit- 
izenry from  those  countries  with 
which  the  United  States,  perhaps, 
will  be  at  war.  They  have  come 
here  of  their  own  choice.  They 
have  selected  this  country  on  ac- 
count of  its  free  institutions,  and 
they  feel  that  they  belong  here. 
They  are  American  citizens.  Now 
let  us  not  treat  them  as  if  they 
were  against  us,  but  .do  everything 
to  make  them  feel  that  we  are  all 
American  citizens. 

We  are  a  people  of  peace.  We 
do  not  love  war,  but  in  order  to 
defend  our  homes  we  have  been 
obliged  to  go  to  war.  In  early  days 
here  in  Utah  we  tried  to  keep 
peace  with  the  Indians.  President 
Brigham  Young  said  it  was  better 
to  feed  the  Indians  than  to  fight 
them,  and  that  humane  policy  kept 
us  from  much  bloodshed,  and  help- 
ed us  to  .develop  the  country.  Still 
we  had  wars  with  them.  Some  of 
the  unruly  Indians  would  take  our 
cattle,  and  kill  our  men  and  women, 
and  we  had  to  go  out  to  fight  them 
in  order  to  defend  ourselves,  and 
we  did  not  feel  that  we  were  going 


contrary  to  the  commands  of  God 
in  doing  this. 

Now,  as  we  are  an  integral  part 
of  the  United  States,  if  the  United 
States  shall  be  attacked  we  will 
take  our  part  with  them  in  defend- 
ing our  country.  I  hope  our 
parents  will  teach  their  young  men 
who  may  be  called  into  war,  that 
to  be  a  soldier  does  not  mean  to 
throw  away  their  ideas  of  right  and 
morality  and  godliness,  but  that 
they  will  go  as  did  the  two  thou- 
sand young  men  led  by  Helaman 
of  whom  we  read  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  and,  like  the  young  Ne- 
phites,  keep  themselves  free  from 
the  things  that  defile.  Let  them  be 
prayerful  and  God-fearing,  and 
then  go  and  in  his  name  perform 
their  duties. 

This  day  is  the  birthday  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  which  Church  was  or- 
ganized eighty-seven  years  ago.  On 
that  day  a  number  of  those  who 
had  been  baptized,  and  their 
friends,  met  in  Fayette,  Seneca 
-county,  New  York,  and  there  or- 
ganized the  Church.  In  the  month 
of  May,  preceding,  Joseph  Smith 
and  Oliver  Cowdery  received  the 
Aaronic  'Priesthood,  under  the 
hands  of  John,  called  in  the  scrip- 
tures John  the  Baptist,  who  reveal- 
ed to  them  the  correct  manner  and 
purpose  of  baptism,  after  which 
Joseph  baptized  Oliver  Cowdery 
and  Oliver  baptized  Joseph  Smith. 
Afterwards  they  received  a  glorious 
visit,  Peter,  James  and  John,  who 
held  the  presidency  of  the  Melchiz- 
edek  Priesthood  in  former  days  of 
the  Church,  appeared  and  bestowed 
upon  them  that  priesthood ;  so  that 
on  the  6th  of  April,  1830,  when  the 
Church  was  organized,  these  two 
men  held  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood as  well  as  the  Aaronic  Priest- 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


hood.  They  had  already  baptized 
a  small  number  of  members  who 
met  on  that  day  and  took  part  in 
the  Church  organization.  Then  to 
follow  the  order  of  the  priesthood, 
in  accordance  with  the  command  of 
God,  Joseph  and  Oliver  ordained 
each  other  elders,  after  having 
been  accepted  by  those  present  to 
be  the  first  two  elders  in  the 
Church.  Those  baptized  received 
then  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying 
on  of  hands  of  Joseph  and  Oliver. 
On  that  day  they  also  partook  of 
the  Sacrament  of  the  Lord's  Sup- 
per, to  remember  the  great  atone- 
ment wrought  by  our  Savior,  which 
event  we  also  celebrate  today.  We 
remember  with  deepest  gratitude 
that  he  gave  his  life  to  justify  us 
before  God,  and  to  make  it  possi- 
ble that  we  could  be  at  one  with  our 
heavenly  Father.  "That  great  of- 
fering," as  we  sing,  "by  man  least 
understood,"  was  made  by  him  in 
accordance  with  the  will  of  the 
Father,  and  he  became  our  Savior 
and  Redeemer. 

Now  the  Church  was  organized,- 
but  not  with  all  the  officers  of  the 
Church  as  we  have  them  today,  for 
the  simple  reason  they  did  not  have 
enough  members  in  the  Church  to 
make  a  complete  organization.  Ten 
months  after  the  Church  was  or- 
ganized Edward  Partridge  was  or- 
dained a  Bishop  to  the  Church,  and 
in  June  following  the  first  high 
priests  were  ordained.  In  Decem- 
ber, 1833,  Joseph  Smith,  Senior, 
was  ordained  a  patriarch,  and  two 
months  later  the  first  High  Council 
was  organized.  The  quorum  of 
Twelve  apostles  was  organized 
February  14,  1835,  and  two  weeks 
later  a  quorum  of  seventies  was  or- 
ganized. All  the  offices  in  the 
priesthood  were  now  established 
and  men  were  ordained  to  fill  them. 


In  regard  to  Church  government 
I  will  state  that  during  the  first 
thirteen  months  all  Church  business 
was  done  by  conferences  of  elders 
presided  over  by  Joseph  Smith  and 
Oliver  Cowdery.  Several  of  the 
leading  brethren  were  now  ordained 
High  Priests  who  afterwards  form- 
ed the  presiding  quorum  of  the 
Church.  In  March,  1832,  Joseph 
was  called  by  revelation  to  be  Pres- 
ident of  the  Church,  and  a  month 
later  he  was  sustained  as  President 
of  the  High  Priests'  quorum.  Next 
spring,  March  18,  1833,  the  First 
Presidency  was  organized  and  sus- 
tained, consisting  bf  three  High 
Priests :  Joseph  Smith,  President, 
Sidney  Rigdon,  First  Counselor, 
and  Frederick  G.  Williams,  Second 
Counselor. 

Some  may  ask,  was  not  this  a 
kind  of  evolution  of  Church  gov- 
ernment from  that  directed  by 
elders  to  the  present  form,  during 
which  time  the  leaders  gradually 
added  offices  in  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  according  to  their  own 
notions,  and  as  an  after  thought 
added  patriarchs,  apostles  and  sev- 
enties? The  answer  is  that  this 
was  not  the  case.  Already  in  June, 
1829,  before  the  Church  was  organ- 
ized, the  Lord  told  Joseph  Smith 
that  Oliver  Cowdery  and  David 
Whitmer  should  seek  out  the 
twelve,  and  their  mission  was 
defined.  In  a  revelation  given 
on  the  same  day  ■  the  organiza- 
tion took  place  the  Lord  says : 
"Behold,  there  shall  be  a  record 
kept  among  you,  and  in  it  thou 
shall  be  called  a  seer,  a  trans- 
lator, a  prophet,  an  apostle  of  Jesus 
Christ."  The  preceding  section  (20) 
of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, called  a  revelation  on  Church 
government,  explains  the  dutjes  of 
the  different  officers  of  the  Church, 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


15 


and  the  rules  laid  .down  there  are 
still  followed  and  considered  the 
law  of  the  Church.  This  shows  that 
the  plan  of  the  organization  of  the 
Church  was  definitely  given  to  the 
Church  at  the  beginning  and  that 
it  did  not  have  its  origin  and  de- 
velopment in  the  ideas  of  men.  We 
rejoice  in  knowing  that  it  was  God- 
given. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  see 
the  time  is  up.  I  rejoice  to  be  here 
with  you  and  see  so  many  here  on 
this  day  of  opening,  and  again  I 
want  to  impress  upon  you  the  ne- 
cessity of  following  the  counsel  of 
our  President,  given  to  us  this 
morning.    God  bless  you  all.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation 
sang:  "Praise  to  the  man  who 
communed  with  Jehovah." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered 
by  Elder  Junius  F.  Wells. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2 
p.  m. 

AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  pre- 
sided, and  called  the  congregation 
to  order  at  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

The  choir  and  congregation 
sang:  "Zion  stands  with  hills  sur- 
rounded." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  President 
Heber  Q.  Hale,  of  the  Boise  stake 
of  Zion. 

A  solo :  "I  know  that  my  Re- 
deemer liveth,"  was  sung  by  Mrs. 
Lucile  Wells. 

PREST.  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 

Significance  of  the  crucifixion  and  res- 
urrection of  Jesus  Christ — A  great 
privilege  is  enjoyed  by  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  in  being  members  by 
baptism    of    the     true     Church     of 


Christ — As  a  consequence  and  be- 
cause of  individual  agency,  their  re- 
sponsibility is  great  and  they  will 
be  called  to  judgment  for  their 
works — The  character  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  pertaining 
to  resistance  and  non-resistance — 
What  he  requires  of  us  in  this  mat- 
ter, and  how  the  true  Christian 
should  regard  war' — He  is  justified 
only  when  he  fights  for  liberty  and 
right,  and  then  it  should  be  done 
without  passion  or  a  desire  to  shed 
blood,but  in  a  spirit  of  justice, right- 
eousness and  equity — Peace  shall 
yet  prevail  and  the  way  be  opened 
for  the  servants  of  God  to  preach 
the  gospel  tidings  to  the  nations 
that  sit  in  darkness. 

This  is  a  great  privilege  ex- 
tended to  all  of  us  who  are  in  this 
assembly,  this  afternoon,  to  be  able 
to  attend  this  conference  and  to 
meet  in  this  tabernacle ;  and  I  con- 
gratulate all  who  were  present  this 
morning  in  having  the  opportunity 
of  hearing  the  address  of  our  be- 
loved president,  Joseph  F.  Smith. 
One  gentleman  present,  who  was 
not  of  our  faith  and  who  has  come 
from  the  far  east  on  other  bus- 
iness than  attending  this  confer- 
ence, stated  to  a  friend  here  that 
it  was  well  worth  a  trip  across  the 
continent  to  hear  that  address  from 
President  Smith ;  and  I  endorse  his 
statement,  for  I  felt  the  same  way, 
that  if  there  was  nothing  else  pre- 
sented to  this  conference  of  people 
gathered  from  various  parts  of 
these  mountain  valleys  and  some 
from  abroad,  they  would  be  well 
repaid  for  coming  here  and  having 
the  privilege  of  hearing  the  words 
of  inspiration  and  instruction  that 
were  imparted  to  us. 

I  rejoice  in  being  privileged  this 
afternoon  to  stand  up  and  bear  tes- 
timony to  the  truth  of  those  re- 
marks. They  went  down  deep  into 
my  soul.  It  was  truly  a  time  of  re- 
joicing,  of   an   outpouring   of  the 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Spirit  of  God ;  and  while  the  world 
abroad  has  an  outpouring  of  the 
spirit  of  war,  we  had  an  outpouring 
of  the  spirit  of  peace,  the  true  spirit 
of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  who  is  our 
spiritual  head,  in  whose  Church  we 
have  membership.  We  have  the 
blessing  of  being  part  of  the  body 
of  Christ.  This  'is  his  Church, 
named  after  him  and  by  him,  and  it 
is  still  under  his  direction.  It  is 
Christ's  Church,  and  it  is  he  who 
has  given  to  us  the  revelations 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
and  his  successors,  particularly 
those  things  that  are  contained  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  given 
to  us  in  this  day  for  the  benefit  of 
this  his  Church,  which  he  has  de- 
clared shall  prevail  over  every  foe, 
if  his  people,  the  Saints  of  the  Most 
High,  will  observe  the  covenants 
and  commandments  which  he  has 
revealed  to  them  for  their  present 
guidance  and  eternal  salvation. 

The  beautiful  poem  which  has 
just  been  sung  to  us  brings  to  mind 
some  things  that  I  had  not  thought 
of  particularly  today.  We  are  liv- 
ing at  a  time  celebrated  through- 
out Christendom  as  the  day  of  the 
crucifixion.  Next  Sunday  is  called 
Easter  Sunday,  celebrated  as  the 
day  of  the  resurrection,  and  the 
words  sung  to  us  so  clearly  this  af- 
ternoon were  the  words  of  an 
ancient  saint,  one  of  the  most  an- 
cient of  writers  or  prophets  whose 
writings  have  been  preserved. 
They  are  the  words  of  Job,  and 
have  come  down  to  us  in  the  Old 
Testament  scriptures : 

"For  I  know  that  my  Redeemer 
liveth,  and  that  he  shall  stand  at 
the  latter  day  upon  the  earth : 

"And  though,  after  my  skin, 
worms  destroy  this  body,  yet  in 
my  flesh  shall  I  see  God"  (Job. 
19:25,26. 


I  have  wondered  often  how  it  is 
that  our  friends  in  the  various  sects 
of  modern  Christendom  have  not 
perceived  the  fulness  of  the  truth 
contained  in  those  words  of  Job. 
They  profess  to  believe  in  life  after 
death ;  they  believe  that  when  peo- 
ple die  they  either  go  to  heaven  or 
to  hell,  and  that  Jesus  Christ  died 
and  appeared  afterwards  to  his 
apostles,  but  they  do  not  believe 
that  he  appeared  to  them  in  the 
flesh.  That  is  very  strange,  when 
the  descriptions  that  we  have,  writ- 
ten by  the  apostles  who  saw  him, 
declare  that  they  beheld  the  marks 
of  the  nails  that  were  driven 
through  his  hands  upon  the  cross, 
and  the  mark  of  the  Roman  spear 
in  his  side,  and  he  declared  to  them 
that  he  was  not  a  mere  spirit.  He 
did  not  come  to  them  to  make  them 
believe  in  life  after  death  simply, 
because  they  believed  that  before ; 
that  was  believed  even  by  the  Phar- 
isees and  other  sects  in  Judea,  but 
he  said :  "Behold,  my  hands  and  my 
feet,  that  it  is  I,  myself ;  handle  me, 
and  see ;  for  a  spirit  hath  not  flesh 
and  bones,  as  ye  see  me  have.  And 
while  they  yet  believed  not  for  joy, 
and  wondered,  he  said  unto  them: 
Have  ye  here  any  meat?  And  they 
gave  him  a  piece  of  a  broiled  fish 
and  of  an  honeycomb,  and  he  took 
it  and  did  eat  before  them"  (Luke 
24:41-43).  What  was  this  for?  Evi- 
dently to  demonstrate  to  them  the 
truth  of  the  doctrine  of  the  resur- 
rection from  the  dead.  Not  merely 
the  truth  of  the  doctrine  of  the 
continuation  of  life  after  death,  the 
life  of  the  spirit  when  the  body  is 
in  the  grave,  but  the  doctrine  of 
the  resurrection,  the  raising  up 
again  of  the  body  from  the  dust. 
This  must  be  very  clear  to  those 
who  read  and  do  not  try  to  misin- 
terpret. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


17 


We  have  the  testimonies  of  many 
of  the  apostles  in  the  New  Testa- 
ment ;  and  the  Apostle  Paul,  in  the 
fifteenth  chapter  of  what  is  called 
the  First  Epistle  to  the  Corinth- 
ians, relates  the  circumstances  of 
Christ's  death  and  of  his  burial  and 
of  his  resurrection  from  the  dead, 
and  of  his  appearance  at  a  number 
of  times  to  his  apostles  and  after- 
ward to  five  hundred  of  the  breth- 
ren, all  at  once,  and  of  his  ascen- 
sion into  heaven.  And  Paul  adds 
his  own  personal  testimony  to  hav- 
ing seen  him,  Jesus  of  Nazareth 
raised  from  the  dead,  and  the  argu- 
ment that  he  offers  in  regard  to  the 
resurrection  from  the  dead  is  based 
upon  these  statements  that  I  have 
briefly  referred  to.  "Now,  is  Christ 
risen  from  the  dead  and  become  the 
first  fruits  of  them  that  slept."  Then 
he  goes  on  to  argue  that  if  Christ 
was  raised  from  the  dead,  we  shall 
be  raised  also,  and  that  if  Christ 
was  not  raised  from  the  dead,  then 
we  are  dead  to  all  intents  and  pur- 
poses when  we  lay  our  bodies 
down ;  "but  now  is  Christ  risen 
from  the  dead,"  was  his  testimony. 

In  addition  to  these  things  con- 
tained in  the  New  Testament,  in- 
cluding what  the  Lord  showed  to 
John  in  that  great  vision  upon  the 
Isle  of  Patmos,  we  have  the  testi- 
mony in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  that 
Jesus  Christ  appeared  on  this  con- 
tinent to  the  Nephites,  and  showed 
them  also  the  marks  of  the  nails  in 
his  hands  and  the  mark  of  the  spear 
in  his  side,  that  they  might  under- 
stand that  the  doctrine  of  the  actual 
resurrection  from  the  dead  is  a  true 
doctrine  and  that  by  his  being 
raised  from  the  dead  he  became, 
what  he  proclaimed  himself  to  be, 
"the  resurrection  and  the  life,"  de- 
claring with  that  the  doctrine  that 


the  time  should  come  when  "all  that 
are  in  the  graves  shall  hear  his 
voice,  and  shall  come  forth ;  they 
that  have  done  good,  unto  the  res- 
urrection of  life ;  and  they  that  have 
done  evil,  unto  the  resurrection  of 
damnation"  (John  5:28,29).  Now, 
in  these  last  days,  we  have  the  testi- 
mony of  Joseph  Smith  and  Sidney 
Rigdon  in  the  76th  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  that  they 
also  beheld  Christ  on  the  right  hand 
of  God,  the  risen  Redeemer,  having 
power  to  bring  others  forth  from 
the  tomb  and  that  by  him  and 
through  him,  according  to  their  or- 
der, all  the  human  race  shall  be 
brought  forth.  All  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  Adam  and  Eve  are 
to  be  raised  from  the  dead  in  the 
order  that  is  prepared,  to  enter  into 
some  degree  of  glory,  if  they  are  fit 
for  it,  while  a  few  of  the  inhab- 
itants of  the  earth,  having  received 
the  light  and  then  fought  against 
it,  having  obtained  the  spirit  that 
comes  from  that  evil  one  who  has 
the  power  of  death ;  having  in  their 
souls  a  desire  to  shed  blood  and 
having  accomplished  that  desire, 
sinning  against  the  Holy  Ghost, 
sinning  against  the  most  sacred 
covenants  that  men  could  enter 
into,  they  cannot  enter  into 
glory,  but  even  they  also  are 
to  be  raised  from  the  dead  and  to 
go  into  their  proper  place  as  related 
in  the  eighty-eighth  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  We  have 
the  testimony  of  others,  some  that 
are  living,  who  have  seen  the  Lord, 
the  Savior,  the  Christ  risen  from 
the  dead ;  in  vision  they  have  seen 
him.  All  these  testimonies,  added 
together  make  a  wonderful  body  of 
evidence  concerning  the  reality  of 
the  resurrection  from  the  dead. 
Now  we  who  have  gathered  here. 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


we  Latter-day   Saints,   as    I    have 
said,    belong   to   his    Church.      He 
made  it,  he  has  set  it  up,  he  con- 
trols it,  his  Spirit  is  in  it,  and  it  is 
by  that  Spirit  that  all  the  revela- ' 
tions  that  are  placed  on  record  un- 
der his  name  have  been  given ;  and, 
I    thank    God    it    is    also    by    that 
Spirit   we   still   are   led,   not    only 
by  the  inspiration  given  to  our  lead- 
ers, but  the  inspiration  given  to  ev- 
ery one  of  us  in  our  own  souls  if 
we  have  really  received  the  truth 
and  are  walking  in  the  light  there- 
of.    For  the  Spirit  of  Jesus  Christ 
rests   down  upon  the  body  of  the 
Church,    and     according     to    their 
faithfulness,  and  their  obedience  to 
his    commandments,    they    are    en- 
lightened of  him  by  the  power  of 
the  Holy  Spirit    which    proceedeth 
from  the  presence  of  God  through- 
out the    immensity    of    space,    by 
which    he    comprehends    them,    by 
which  his  eye  can  pierce  them  all ; 
he  himself  being  in  the  bosom  of 
eternity,  a  personality,  as  testified 
by  President  Smith  this  morning, 
an  individual  in  whose  likeness  we 
have  been  formed,  who  is  the  literal 
father     as     well    as    the    spiritual 
Father  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth  who 
is  our  living  head,  who  is  the  head 
of   this    Church    and   whose   Spirit 
dwells  in  it  and  enlightens  all  who 
are  willing  to  receive  the  light. 

What  a  blessed  privilege  it  is 
that  we  enjoy  as  Latter-day  Saints, 
to  be  baptized  unto  him,  not  merely 
to  be  born  of  water  by  being  bap- 
tized in  water,  but  being  enveloped 
baptized,  invigorated,  enlightened 
by  the  power  of  that  Holy  Spirit 
which  quickens  all  things  through 
Jesus  Christ  our  Lord !  And  it  is 
he  that  we  acknowledge  as  our 
Savior  and  our  Redeemer,  and  we 
look  to   him    for   our   resurrection 


at  our  proper  time  from  the  dead 
to   stand  before   God  and  give  an 
account  for  the  deeds  done  in  the 
mortal    body.      This    is    something 
worth  thinking  about.    We  are  re- 
sponsible beings  and  therefore  the 
Lord  will  cause  us  to  give  an  ac- 
count of  ourselves  and  to  stand  and 
be  judged  by  our  record.     We  are 
responsible    because     responsibility 
was  born  into  us  in  our  spiritual, 
first-being,    our    pre-existence — the 
power    of    volition,    the    power    of 
agency.     He  that  has  an  agency  of 
his  own  has  in  his  being,  born  of 
the  Eternal  Father,  the  power,  not 
only  of  volition,  but  the  power  of 
choice,  the  power  of  choosing  good 
or  evil,  the  power  of  rejecting  good 
or  evil,  and  in  the  exercise  of  that 
he    is    responsible    for   all   that   he 
does,  and  because  of  that  responsi-    , 
bility  comes  the  doctrine  of  eternal 
judgment,  so  that  all  mankind  will 
be    judged     "according     to    their 
works,  out  of  the  things  written  in 
the  books."     What  kind  of  books 
they  are  it  doesn't  matter  so  much, 
only  they  will  be  books  that  will 
contain  our  record  and  our  record 
will  be  brought  forth  and  according 
to  our  doings,  so  are  we ;  according 
to  our  acts,  so  we  are.     If  we  do 
evil,  evil  impressions  come  natural- 
ly, and  if  we  love  to  do  good  a 
good  influence,  a  good  spirit,  is  with 
us,  and  round  about  us,  and  in  our 
being   and    we   are    sustained   and 
supported  thereby;  and  if  we  are 
corrupt  and  wicked  and  abominable 
and   rebellious,   the   effects   of   our 
acts   are  right  in  our  nature,   and 
these  things  will  be  disclosed  just 
as  naturally  as  the  opening  of  books 
made   of   paper  and   written   upon 
with  ink. 

These  are  serious  thoughts  that 
should  come  to  us  at  this  season  of 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


19 


the  year.  Whether  the  dates  that 
people  have  set  are  exactly  right  or 
not,  matters  not  so  much.  This  is 
the  time  of  the  crucifixion  and  the 
interment  and  the  resurrection  from 
the  dead,  of  the  greatest  Being  who 
ever  walked  upon  this  earth,  the 
first-born  of  God  in  the  spirit,  the 
only  begotten  Son  in  the  flesh,  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world,  the  Savior 
of  mankind  whom  we  adore  and 
in  whose  name  we  worship  the  true 
and  the  living  God.  Jesus  Christ 
our  Redeemer  has  been  kind 
enough  to  reveal  a  great  many 
splendid,  glorious  truths  and  given 
to  us  a  great  many  instructions  for 
our  conduct,  what  we  should  do 
as  members  of  his  Church,  and  we 
have  opportunities  of  learning  these 
things.  Many  of  them  are  written 
in  the  books  that  are  printed,  and 
we  could  read  them  if  we  would 
have  them  at  hand.  We  should 
have  them  in  our  homes — the  Bible, 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price  and  the  different  publications 
that  are  given  to  us  for  our  guid- 
ance and  direction.  In  these  we 
can  learn  concerning  our  Father  in 
heaven  and  concerning  Jesus  Christ 
our  Redeemer,  and  all  the  revela- 
tions that  we  have  for  our  guid- 
ance and  direction  have  come  from 
him.  This  is  what  we  read  in  the 
revelations  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants :  "Listen  to  the  voice 
of  Jesus  Christ,  the  great  I  Am." 
Now,  the  character  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  is  some- 
times misunderstood  and  misinter- 
preted, even  by  those  who  read 
about  him  in  the  New  Testament. 
I  know  when  I  was  a  litle  boy  and 
went  to  Sunday  School,  we  used  to 
sing :  "Gentle  Jesus,  .  meek  and 
mild,  look  on  me  a  little  child." 
That  was  all  very  good,  so  far  as  it 


went.  He  was  meek  and  lowly  of 
heart.  He  was  kind-  and  affection- 
ate and  full  of  love  and  charity,  of 
a  desire  to  bless,  to  lift  up,  to  exalt. 
That  was  his  nature  and  spirit,  and 
he  is  called  the  Prince  of  Peace 
and  the  Lamb  slain  from'  the  found- 
ations of  the  world,  lamb-like  in 
his  character,  lamb-like  when  he 
was  led  to  the  slaughter,  and  "as  a 
sheep  before  its  shearers  is  dumb, 
so  opened  he  not  his  mouth"  when 
he  was  falsely  accused ;  meek  of 
character,  willing  to  forgive  his  bit- 
terest enemies  as  he  manifested 
when  he  was  on  the  cross.  But 
there  was  another  side  to  his  char- 
acter. He  taught  that  under  cer- 
tain conditions  people  should  be 
willing  to  forgive,  and  when  they 
were  smitten  on  one  cheek  to  turn 
the  other. 

This  puts  me  in  mind  of  a  cir- 
cumstance that  occurred  when  I 
was  laboring  on  a  mission  in  Lon- 
don many,  many  years  ago :  We 
had  an  old  gentleman  there  that 
had  been  in  the  army.  He  was  a 
war  veteran  and  he  was  preaching 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  on  the 
streets.  A  man  came  up  and 
slapped  him  on  the  face.  "Now," 
he  says,  "if  you  are  a  Christian  turn 
the  other  cheek."  So  old  daddy 
turned  the  other  cheek,  but  he  said : 
"Hit  again  and  down  you  go."  He 
would  have  gone  down,  too,  if  he 
had  struck  again.  True,  Jesus 
Christ  taught  that  non-resistance, 
was  right  and  praiseworthy  and  a 
duty  under  certain  circumstances 
and  conditions ;  but  just  look  at  him 
when  he  went  into  the  temple,  when 
he  made  that  scourge  of  thongs, 
when  he  turned  out  the  money- 
changers and  kicked  over  their  ta- 
bles and  told  them  to  get  out  of  the 
house  of  the  Lord !  "My  house  is 
a  house  of  prayer,"  he  said,  "but  ye 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


have  made  it  a  den  of  thieves."  Get 
out  of  here!  '  Hear  him  crying, 
"Woe  unto  you  Scribes,  Pharisees, 
hypocrites,  ye  compass  sea  and  land 
to  make  one  proselyte,  and  then  ye 
make  him  ten-fold  more  the  child 
of  hell  than  he  was  before."  That 
was  the  other- side  of  the  spirit  of 
Jesus.  Jesus  was  no  milksop.  He 
was  not  to  be  trampled  under  foot. 
He  was  ready  to  submit  when  the 
time  came  for  his  martyrdom,  and 
he  was  to  be  nailed  on  the  cross  as  a 
sacrifice  for  the  sins  of  the  world, 
but  he  was  ready  at  any  time  to  stand 
up  for  his  rights  like  a  man.  He  is 
not  only  called  "the  Lamb  slain 
from  the  foundation  of  the  world," 
but  also  "the  Lion  of  the  Tribe  of 
Judah,"  and  He  will  be  seen  to  be 
terrible  by  and  by  to  his  enemies. 

Now  while  we  are  not  particular- 
ly required  to  pattern  after  the 
"lion"  side  of  his  character  unless 
it  becomes  necessary,  the  Lord  does 
not  expect  us  to  submit  to  be  trod- 
den under  foot  by  our  enemies  and 
never  resist.  The  Lord  does  nor 
w^nt  us  to  inculcate  the  spirit  of 
war  nor  the  spirit  of  bloodshed.  In 
fact  he  has  commanded  us  not  to 
shed  blood,  but  there  are  times  and 
seasons,  as  we  can  find  in  the  his- 
tory of  the  world,  in  Bible  and  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  when  it  is  jus- 
tifiable and  right  and  proper  and 
the  duty  of  men  to  go  forth  in  the 
defense  of  their  homes  and  their 
families  and  maintain  their  privil- 
eges and  rights  by  force  of  arms. 
On  this  subject  I  might  read  some- 
thing to  you  if  there  were  plenty  of 
time,  but  you  can  read  it  yourselves 
when  you  get  home.  Read  the 
101st  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  then  read  the  98th  sec- 
tion. 

In  section  101  the  Lord  speaks 
about  the  constitution  of  this  land. 


He  says  it  was  framed  by  wise  men 
whom  he  raised  up  for  that  very 
purpose.  What  for?  To  maintain 
the  rights  and  privileges  "of  all 
flesh."  Not  alone  the  people  of 
this  land.  The  principles  of  that 
great  instrument  are  to  go  forth 
to  the  nations,  and  the  time  will 
come  when  they  will  prevail,  just  as 
sure  as  the  sun  shines  even  when  it 
appears  to  be  in  darkness  and  the 
clouds  are  over  it.  And  the  Lord 
says,  concerning  the  works  of  those 
great  men,  "And  redeemed  the  land 
by  the  shedding  of  blood."  Shed- 
ding of  blood !  Does  the  Lord  per- 
mit the  shedding  of  blood  and  justi- 
fy it?  Yes,  sometimes  he  does. 
Was  not  the  war  of  independence 
of  this  country  justifiable?  Were 
not  the  rights  and  privileges  of  the 
people  of  this  land  trampled  under 
foot,  and  did  they  not  rise  in  their 
might  and  the  God  of  Battles 
strengthen  their  arms  and  they 
went  forth  to  victory  and  brought 
liberty,  not  only  to  themselves  and 
their  immediate  families,  but  to 
hosts  of  people  from  down-trodden 
Europe  who  are  rejoicing  today  un- 
der the  Stars  and  Stripes  with  lib- 
erty of  conscience  and  liberty  of 
speech  and  liberty  of  action  within 
proper  guidance  and  direction  of 
righteous  law.  These  principles  are 
to  go  forth  to  all  flesh.  Don't  you 
forget  it.  The  time  will  come  when 
they  will  be  carried  to  all  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth  and  they  will  be 
delivered  from  tyrants  and  oppres- 
sors. 

In  the  98th  section  the  Lord 
gives  the  law  that  he  gave  in  an- 
cient time  to  his  people  when  they 
were  to  go  forth  to  battle :  It  is 
in  substance:  "If  thine  enemy  come 
against  thee,  thou  shalt  forgive 
him ;  if  he  come  again  the  second 
time,  thou  -shalt  forgive  him;  and 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


21 


if  he  even  come  the  third  time  and 
you  forgive  him  it  will  be  reckoned 
unto  you  for  glory,  but  if  he  come 
again  I,  the  Lord,  justify  you  in 
going  forth  to  battle  and  I  will 
strengthen  you  and  I  will  fight  your 
battles."  Now  the  great  distinction 
should  be,  and  we  should  under- 
stand it,  that  circumstances  may 
arise  which  will  require  a  different 
precept  from  that  given  at  one  time 
when  another  time  comes.  In  the 
22nd  chapter  of  Luke,  you  will  read 
that  Jesus,  just  before  he  was  taken 
by  the  men  that  came  out  to  bring 
him  before  the  judgment  seat,  cried 
out  to  his  apostles :  "When  I  sent 
you  without  purse  and  scrip  and 
shoes,  lacked  ye  anything?  And 
they  said,  Nothing."  Then  said  he, 
but  now  "let  him  that  hath  a  purse 
take  it,  and  likewise  his  scrip,  and 
he  that  hath  no  sword,  let  him  sell 
his  garments  and  buy  one"  (verses 
35,  36).  Well,  some  people  will  say, 
perhaps,  then,  the  Lord  is  a  change- 
able being.  Not  at  all.  The  Lord 
always  is  like  that.  From  the  eter- 
nities that  are  past  down  to 
the  present,  when  circumstances 
change,  he  adapts  his  laws  to  those 
conditions  and  gives  his  people 
counsel  and  instructions  suited  to 
the  times  and  the  circumstances. 

Now,  in  this  98th  section  I  spoke 
of,  the  Lord  says  this  was  the  word 
of  guidance  to  his  servants  in  an- 
cient times  when  he  told  them  to  go 
forth  to  battle  for  the  right,  and 
he  gave  commandments  to  them  to 
do  so,  and  we  can  read  about  them 
in  the  Old  Testament,  and  he  says, 
"this  is  a  law  unto  all  people,  all 
flesh,"  so  that  circumstances  alter 
cases,  as  the  old  proverb  has  it. 
Now  if  a  nation  essays  to  go  forth 
against  another  nation  for  the  pur- 
pose of  conquest,  to  gain  territory, 
to  grasp  something  that  does  not 


belong  to  that  nation,  then  the  na- 
tion thus  assailed  has  the  right  to 
resist  even  to  the  shedding  of  blood, 
as  it  was  in  this  land  in  the  war 
for  independence.  But  we  have  to 
be  careful  as  to  what  spirit  we  are 
guided  by.  If  we  want  to  go  out 
to  battle,  to  encroach  upon  other 
peoples'  liberties  and  rights,  to  gain 
their  lands,  to  destroy  their  prop- 
erty without  any  right  or  reason, 
that  is  one  thing;  but  if  somebody 
comes  against  us  to  destroy  us  and 
our  property  and  our  homes  and 
our  rights  and  our  privileges,  either 
on  land  or  sea,  then  we  have  the 
right  under  the  divine  law  to  rise 
for  our  own  protection  and  take 
such  steps  as  are  necessary.  But,  as 
we  were  exhorted  this  morning  by 
our  President,  we  Latter-day  Saints 
must  watch  ourselves  and  not  give 
way  to  passion  and  desire  to  shed 
blood  and  to  destroy,  for  that  is  the 
power  of  the  evil  one.  We  do  not 
want  to  imitate  any  nation  that  is 
bent  on  a  policy  of  destruction,  to 
destroy  where  they  cannot  rule,  to 
break  down  and  trample  under  foot 
where  they  cannot  dominate.  If  we 
have  that  desire,  it  is  the  spirit  of 
the  wicked  one. 

But  when  the  time  comes  that 
we,  as  a  part  of  this  great  nation, 
are  called  upon  by  the  rulers  and 
leaders  of  affairs  of  the  country  and 
they  are  justified  in  the  course  that 
they  are  pursuing,  then,  I  think,  we 
are  required  to  stand  with  them  for 
the  rights  of  the  nation  of  which 
we  form  a  part,  and  do  our  bound- 
en  duty,  but  to  do  it  in  the  spirit 
that  the  President  showed  to  us 
this  morning,  as  the  true  spirit  of 
Jesus  Christ,  desiring  that  mankind 
may  repent,  desiring  that  they  may 
turn  from  their  wicked  ways,  de- 
siring that  they  may  be  brought  to 
a  condition  wherein  they  will  de- 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


sire  peace.  But  while  they  rise 
against  us  and  seek  our  destruction, 
is  it  not  our  right,  our  privilege,  as 
Christians,  yea,  as  Latter-day 
Saints,  to  stand  for  those  rights,  to 
defend  our  homes,  our  wives,  our 
children,  our  possessions,  every- 
thing that  we  have  gained  law- 
fully, but  not  to  go  forth  even 
against  our  enemies  to  desire  their 
destruction  and  soak  the  earth  with 
more  blood,  to  devastate  and  bring 
misery  and  trouble  by  conquest  in 
other  lands ;  not  at  all ;  and  we  can 
differentiate  between  the  two  con- 
ditions. There  is  a  very  great  dif- 
ference between  arising  to  go  forth 
for  conquest,  for  blood,  for  plun- 
der, to  gain  territory  and  power  in 
the  earth,  and  in  fighting  to  defend 
our  own  possessions  in  the  spirit  of 
justice  and  righteousness  and 
equity,  and  standing  up  like  men 
for  those  things  that  we  have  a 
right  to  contend  for. 

Now  I  think  that  is  the  spirit  of 
Jesus  Christ  when  I  come  to  view 
him  personally  from  both  sides  of 
his  character.  He  was  a  mighty 
man.  He  was  a  man  to  all  intents 
and  purposes  in  every  particular, 
the  Son  of  the  living  God,  the  very 
express  image  of  his  Father  and 
our  Father,  his  God  and  our  God, 
who  some  day  will  rule  this  world, 
and  Jesus  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God,  will  be  our  King  and 
we  will  follow  him  wherever  he 
leads.  That  time  shall  come.  As 
Isaiah  predicted :  "Behold  a  king 
shall  reign  in  righteousness,  and 
princes  shall  rule  in  judgment" 
(Chap.  32).  Brethren  and  sisters, 
that  time  is  coming  and  the  work 
in  which  you  and  I  are  engaged  is 
to  prepare  the  way,  and  the  spirit 
that  must  be  in  our  hearts  is  the 
spirit  of  righteousness,  for  that  is 
what  will  bring  peace.     There  will 


never  be  peace  to  rule  in  the  world 
until  righteousness  is  established ; 
ighteous  knowledge,  righteous  liv- 
ing, righteous  acts,  righteous  aims, 
righteous  union,  united  faith.  When 
that  day  shall  dawn,  Christ  shall 
come  and  be  our  king,  and  we  read 
that  the  "effect  of  righteousness 
shall  be  peace." 

That  is  it.  The  effect  of  right- 
eousness shall  be  peace,  but  while 
unrighteousness  and  despotism  and 
tyranny  and  inequality  in  regard  to 
the  rights  of  men  shall  persist  in 
the  world,  there  will  be  wars  and 
rumors  of  wars,  and  there  will  be 
destruction  and  sorrow  and  pain, 
and  nation  will  rise  against  nation 
and  kingdom  against  kingdom,  and 
there  will  be  trouble,  as  the  Lord 
predicted,  such  as  there  never  was 
in  the  earth  before.  If  we  are  not 
approaching  that  time  very  closely, 
I  miss  my  guess,  but  my  personal 
belief  is  that  the  Lord  will  over- 
rule. The  Lord  does  not  kill  peo- 
ple, the  Lord  does  not  tell  nations 
to  rise  and  make  conquests,  but  the 
Lord  sits  above  and  while  many  of 
the  people  on  the  earth  are  making 
their  plans,  "He  that  sitteth  in  the 
heavens,"  as  the  psalmist  says, 
"shall  laugh,"  and  the  time  will 
come  when  he  will  overturn  all 
their  plans  and  devices  and  turn 
them  around  to  accomplish  his  own 
divine  purposes,  and  war  shall  be 
overcome,  even  if  but  for  a  time, 
and  peace  shall  prevail  and  the  way 
shall  open  for  the  servants  of  Jesus 
Christ  to  go  forth  in  the  power  and 
spirit  of  the  holy  priesthood  and 
publish  the  glad  tidings  of  great  joy 
revealed  from  heaven  in  the  last 
days  to  all  people,  eand  thousands 
upon  thousands  shall  turn  unto  the 
Lord  and  repent  and  bow  in  hum- 
ble submission  to  his  will.  And 
the  way  shall  be  prepared  for  the 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


23 


establishment  of  Zion  in  all  her 
strength  and  beauty  and  glory,  and 
she  shall  be  clothed  upon  with 
everything  that  is  lovely,  and  Christ 
our  Redeemer  and  her  king  shall 
come  and  "reign  in  Mount  Zion 
and  in  Jerusalem  and  before  his 
ancients  gloriously."  God  help  us 
all  to  do  our  duty  and  to  perform 
it  as  the  Lord  shall  direct  through 
Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  hymn :  "High  on  the  moun- 
tain top." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

An  expressed  desire  for  the  welfare  of 
the  Saints — A  sleigh  ride  with  Brig- 
ham  Young — The  speaker's  testi- 
mony to  the  honor,  virtue,  integrity 
and  uprightness  of  the  General  Au- 
thorities— Our  young  missionaries 
have  converted  many  to  "Mormon- 
ism,"  but  seldom,  if  ever  has  any 
one  of  them  been  converted  to  other 
faiths,  which  is  a  testimony  of  the 
divinity  of  this  work — A  tribute  to 
the  life  and  labors  of  President 
Francis   M.   Lyman. 

I  rejoice  in  again  having  the  op- 
portunity of  meeting  with  the 
Saints  in  general  conference.  I 
have  enjoyed  the  remarks  that  have 
been  made  thus  far,  and  in  humility 
I  pray  that  the  same  good  Spirit 
which  has  inspired  all  that  has  been 
said  may  continue  during  the  re- 
mainder of  the  meeting  today,  and 
through  the  entire  conference.  I 
desire  an  interest  in  your  faith  and 
your  prayers,  that  the  remarks 
which  I  may  make  may  be  made 
under  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord.  When  standing  be- 
fore the  people,  I  never  have  had 
and  desire,  and  hope  and  pray  that 


I  never  may  have,  except  to  be  able 
to  say  something  to  inspire  them 
to  live  the  lives  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

Fifty-four  years  ago,  as  a  little 
child,  I  took  a  sleigh  ride  with 
President  Brigham  Young,  that  is, 
I  ran  out  and  took  hold  of  the  back 
of  the  sleigh,  intending  to  ride  a 
block  and  then  drop  off  and  walk 
home ;  but  President  Young  was 
driving  such  a  fine  team,  or  at  least 
his  driver  was,  that  I  dared  not  let 
go,  hence  rode  on  till  we  reached 
the  Cottonwood,  and  then  when  the 
sleigh  slowed  up,  to  pass  through 
that  stream,  I  jumped  off,  and  the 
President  saw  me.  He  said,  "Stop, 
Brother  Isaac,  stop.  The  little  boy 
is  nearly  frozen.  Put  him  under 
the  buffalo  robe  and  get  him  warm." 
Isaac  Wilson  was  his  driver.  After 
I  got  warm  he  inquired  my  name, 
and  told  me  about  my  father,  and 
his  love  for  him.  He  told  me  to 
tell  my  mother  that  he  wanted  her 
to  send  me  up  to  his  office  in  six 
months  to  have  a  visit  with  him ; 
and  in  six  months  I  went  for  the 
visit.  From  that  time,  fifty- four 
years  ago,  until  the  day  of  his 
death,  I  was  intimately  acquainted 
with  President  Brighami  Young, 
and  this  I  can  say  also  with  respect 
to  John  Taylor,  and  with  all  of  the 
general  authorities  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  For  thirty-four  years  and 
a  half  I  have  been  one  of  the  gen- 
eral authorities.  I  have  been  asso- 
ciated with  them  in  all  of  their 
councils.  I  know  the  hearts  of  these 
men.  I  know  their  desires.  I  know 
their  devotion  to  God  and  to  all  that 
is  for  the  uplift  and  the  betterment 
of  mankind.  I  can  bear  witness 
that  I  know,  as  I  know  that  I  live, 
that  every  word  spoken  here  this 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


morning  by  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  hearing  witness  of  the  hon- 
or, the  virtue,  the  integrity,  and  the 
uprightness  of  the  men  who  pre- 
sided over  this  Church,  is  true.  I 
rejoice  that  in  all  my  associations 
with  the  general  authorities  of  the 
Church  since  I  was  six  years  of  age 
I  have  never  heard  one  word,  in 
public  or  in  private,  fall  from  the 
lips  of  these  men,  but  what  would 
be  for  the  benefit,  for  the  uplift,  for 
the  improvement  morally  and  intel- 
lectually, physically  and  spiritually 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  rejoice  that  in  all  my  travels, 
at  home  or  abroad,  I  have  never 
found  anything,  in  all  the  world,  of 
the  teachings  of  uninspired  men, 
which  has  had  the  slightest  attrac- 
tion for  me.  I  rejoice  that  the  more 
I  come  in  contact  with  the  world 
and  the  peoples  of  the  world,  the 
more  I  rejoice  in  the  strength  and 
the  power  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  I  rejoice  beyond  my  ability 
to  express  it  that  the  Lord  has 
given  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  as 
individuals,  a  testimony,  a  knowl- 
edge, for  themselves  of  the  divinity 
of  this  work  in  which  we  are  en- 
gaged, that  we  as  individuals  do  not 
have  to  rely  upon  the  testimony  of 
others.  I  rejoice  that  all  the  mani- 
festations of  power  together  with 
the  gifts  and  graces  of  the  gospel 
which  were  had  in  the  Church  when 
the  Savior  was  upon  the  earth,  or 
immediately  following  his  crucifix- 
ion are  enjoyed  today  to  the  fullest 
extent  by  the  faithful,  loyal,  true 
and  patriotic  Latter-day  Saints.  I 
rejoice  in  the  fact,  and  have  often 
spoken  of  it  in  the  various  confer- 
ences throughout  the  Church,  that 
as  this  gospel  has  been  preached  the 
world  over,  men  and  women  from 
every  denomination  and  from  every 


clime  have  yielded  obedience  to 
it.  I  rejoice  that  in  the  preaching 
of  the  gospel,  men  with  all  their 
worldly  wisdom  have  never  been 
able  to  capture  any  of  the  loyal, 
faithful  young  men  who  have  gone 
forth  to  proclaim  it.  The  world 
maintains  that  "Mormonism,"  so- 
called,  is  not  true,  that  our  religion 
is  a  delusion,  a  snare,  and  a  fraud, 
and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  false 
prophet.  Do  you  mean  to  tell  me 
that  the  young  men  of  our  Church, 
sweet,  clean,  pure,  upright  and  hon- 
est, who  have  never  heard  anything 
but  good  all  the  days  of  their  lives, 
would  be  so  neglected  by  the  Lord 
that  he  would  not  be  good  enough 
in  eighty  odd  years,  to  show  one  of 
them  the  error  of  his  way,  and 
point  out  the  straight  and  narrow 
path  that  leads  back  to  him? 

Ministers  of  the  .different  sects, 
with  all  their  worldly  wisdom,  have 
never  been  able  to  convert  any  of 
our  faithful  young  missionaries, 
many  of  whom  have  gone  forth  to 
proclaim  the  restored  gospel,  with- 
out experience,  education  or  learn- 
ing, so  far  as  book  learning  is  con- 
cerned ;  but,  on  the  other  hand,  with 
a  burning  testimony  in  their  hearts 
of  the  divinity  of  this  work. 

Yet  some  of  these  young  men 
without  experience  have  been  able 
to  convert  men  who  have  studied 
for  the  various  religious  denomina- 
tions. Men  have  given  up  their 
ministry,  their  pulpit,  and  even  their 
salaries,  to  embrace  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  which  was  carried  to 
them  by  men  who  were  humble  and 
weak,  so  far  as  worldly  knowledge 
was  concerned,  but  who  were  pow- 
erful in  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel 
and  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation 
which  has  been  restored  again  to 
the  earth  through  the  instrumental- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


25 


ity  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
Joseph  Smith,  it  is  claimed,  was  a 
false  prophet,  but  1  want  to  bear 
witness  here  today  that  the  same 
power,  the  same  inspiration,  the 
same  spirit  that  accompanies  the 
elders  in  proclaiming  the  divinity  of 
the  mission  of  our  Lord  and  Mas- 
ter, Jesus  Christ,  as  the  Savior  of 
the  world,  accompanies  men  when 
they  proclaim  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  his  Prophet  and  his  represen- 
tative in  again  restoring  to  the  earth 
the  plan  of  life  and  salvation. 

I  want  to  bear  witness  that  the 
gift  of  tongues,  and  the  gift  of 
healing,  and  the  inspiration  of 
Almighty  God  have  accompanied 
the  proclamation  of  this  gospel  all 
over  the  wide  world.  The  evi- 
dences, the  fruits  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  have  accompanied  the 
preaching  of  it  in  every  land  and  in 
every  clime. 

While  presiding  over  the  Euro- 
pean mission,  I  had  occasion  time 
and  time  again,  to  give  instructions 
to  young  men  who  came  there  to 
preach  the  gospel — young  men  who 
had  had  no  education,  who  had  had 
no  experience,  and  many  of  them 
stood  up  for  the  first  time  in  their 
lives  and  bore  their  testimonies  in 
the  Liverpool  office.  I  told  them  to 
study,  the  gospel  and  to  pray  for 
the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord ;  an.d  promised  them  that  if 
they  would  only  open  their  mouths 
and  bear  witness  that  Jesus  Christ 
was  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  his  prophet, 
God  would  give  them  something  to 
say  even  though  their  minds  at  first 
were  a  blank.  Not  only  a  score  but 
many  scores  of  elders  have  borne 
witness  to  me  that  this  promise  was 
fulfilled,  and  that  God  did  in  very 
deed  bless  them  whenever  they  bore 
witness  of  the  .divinity  of  the  mis- 


sion of  Joseph  Smith,  the  founder, 
under  God,  of  the  Church  of  Christ 
again  upon  the  earth. 

I  rejoice  in  knowing  for  myself, 
and  not  for  another,  that  the  lead- 
ers of  this  people  were  and  are  the 
servants  of  God,  men  who  loved 
and  love  God,  men  willing  to  make 
sacrifices  for  the  spread  of  the  gos- 
pel at  home  and  abroad. 

I  feel  today  to  bear  witness  be- 
fore you  of  the  untiring  energy,  of 
the  unceasing  labors  of  the  late 
President  Francis  M.  Lyman  who 
presided  over  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  at  our  last  general  .confer- 
ence. I  can  remember,  as  a  boy, 
that  I  always  tried  to  get  a  seat 
about  two-thirds  of  the  way  back, 
when  coming  to  this  tabernacle.  I 
always  sat  on  the  aisle,  and  I  can 
remember  when  president  Lyman 
returned  from  his  first  and  his  sec- 
ond missions.  I  can  remember  lis- 
tening to  the  burning  words  of  his 
knowledge  of  the  gospel.  I  can  re- 
member his  preaching  upon  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  and  making  as 
strong  an  impression  upon  my  heart 
to  continue  to  live  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  as  any  man  I  ever  listened 
to.  I  can  remember  when  he  said 
that  a  Latter-day  Saint  ought  to 
love  the  work  of  God  more  than  a 
cup  of  coffee,  or  a  cup  of  tea,  or  a 
chew  of  tobacco,  or  a  drink  of 
liquor ;  that  when  God  had  revealed 
to  him  that  this  was  his  work,  any 
convert  ought  to  show  gratitude 
enough  to  leave  alone  those  things 
which  God  had  said  were  not  good 
for  man.  I  can  remember  how  he 
inspired  me  with  a  determination 
to  continue  to  be  absolutely  honest 
with  God  in  the  payment  of  my 
tithing.  I  can  remember  how  he 
said  that  it  was  the  duty  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  to  keep  an  account, 
and  to  be  as  absolutely  honest  in 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


paying  to  God  one-tenth  of  all  that 
they  made  as  if  they  were  in  part- 
nership with  the  Lord ;  that  as  no 
honest  Latter-day  Saint  would  steal 
from  his  earthly  partner,  why  then 
should  he  not  be  honest  with  God? 
I  testify  that  he  was  honest.  I  tes- 
tify that  Francis  M.  Lyman  was  an 
honest  tithe-payer — honest  to  the 
core.  I  testify  that  he  observed  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  and  in  every 
ward  and  in  every  stake,  wherever 
his  voice  was  raised,  he  taught 
nothing  but  what  he  was  himself 
practicing.  He  has  gone  from  us. 
I  have  been  almost  as  intimately  as- 
sociated with  him  as  a  boy  is  with 
his  father,  for  thirty-six  years — two 
years  in  Tooele  and  thirty- four 
years  in  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
and  upon  all  occasions,  in  public 
and  in  private,  at  home  and  abroad, 
he  was  always  full  of  the  spirit  of 
teaching  and  admonition  and  show- 
ed forth  a  good  example  to  the 
people.  I  have  heard  many  people 
testify  of  their  love  for  him. 

Every  one  of  you,  probably,  have 
heard  the  sound  of  his  voice ;  and 
let  me  call  upon  you  to  remember 
not  only  the  teachings  of  Francis  M. 
Lyman  but  also  to  remember  to 
follow  his  splendid  example  of  hon- 
esty, integrity,  diligence,  and  untir- 
ing energy  in  laboring  for  the  ad- 
vancement of  God's  kingdom.  If 
you  will  .do  this,  I  can  promise  you 
that  when  the  battle  of  life  is  ended, 
and  you  have  the  privilege  of  meet- 
ing President  Lyman,  beyond  the 
veil,  you  will  have  that  same  joy 
when  he  welcomes  you,  which  you 
have  experienced  here  on  earth 
when  he  put  his  arm  around  yon 
and  said,  "God  bless  you,  my 
brother,"  or  "my  sister."  This  is 
my  prayer,  which  may  God  grant,  I 
ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen, 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 

The  power  of  love — Men  should  be 
forgiving  and  when  called  upon 
should  render  judgment  in  a  spirit 
of  mercy  and  love — A  testimony  of 
Jesus  and  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith 
— There  is  a  wonderful  power  in 
the  work  of  the  Lord — The  lead- 
ers of  this  Church  are  and  have  beer, 
men  of  God. 

It  is  wonderful  to  stand  in  the 
presence  of  this  great  gathering  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  It  is  wonderful 
to  hear  the  united  voice  of  the  con- 
gregation in  the  songs  of  Zion, 
singing  as  they  do  with  such  spirit 
and  power.  We  are  told  that  the 
song  of  the  heart  is  a  prayer  unto 
the  Lord.  The  remarks  of  Presi- 
dent Smith,  this  morning,  were  in- 
deed impressive.  They  appealed  to 
me,  and  every  word  that  he  spoke 
was  timely,  and  appropriate,  was 
wise  and  prudent,  and  found  an 
echo  in  my  heart.  The  remarks 
'also  of  President  Penrose  and 
President  Grant  were  quite  in  har- 
mony with  the  spirit  of  this  occa- 
sion, and  I  rejoiced  in  them. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  every  phase 
of  the  character  of  the  Lord  shows 
forth  the  beauty  of  perfection,  but 
there  is  no  attribute  of  deity,  it 
seems  to  me,  that  is  so  attractive 
and  so  admirable  as  the  principle 
of  forgiveness  or  mercy.  Moses,  in 
speaking  of  the  Lord  upon  one  oc- 
casion— I  think  you  will  find  it  in 
the  thirty-fourth  chapter  of  Exodus 
— says :  "And  the  Lord  passed  by 
before  him  and  proclaimed :  The 
Lord  God,  the  Lord,  merciful  and 
gracious,  long-suffering  and  abund- 
ant in  goodness  and  truth."  And 
we  are  told  in  one  of  the  psalms  that 
"the  Lord  executeth  righteousness 
and  judgment  for  all  that  are  op- 
pressed. He  made  known  his  ways 
to  Moses,  his  acts  to  the  children  of 


ELDER   RUDGER    CLAW  SON. 


27 


Israel.  The  Lord  is  merciful  and 
gracious,  slow  to  anger,  and  plente- 
ous in  mercy."  If  this  be  a  true 
description  of  him,  what  a  glorious 
being  he  is.  He  does  not  act  with 
hastiness,  but  his  is  a  spirit  of 
peace,  a  spirit  of  tranquility,  a  spirit 
of  calmness.  He  is  slow  to  anger, 
and  plenteous  in  mercy.  Now  I 
take  it  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
the  Lord  expects  us,  his  children 
and  his  Church,  to  become  like  he 
is.  He  said  to  his  disciples,  in  the 
meridian  of  time,  "Follow  me;" 
and  so  I  feel  that  this  is 
the  word  of  the  Lord  to  us,  that  we 
should  follow  him  in  our  daily  walk 
and  conversation.  I  think  the  ad- 
monition of  Joseph-  Smith,  .the 
Prophet,  is  also  commendable, 
when  he  said :  "Ever  keep  in  exer- 
cise the  principles  of  mercy,  and  be 
willing  to  forgive  your  brother,  or 
even  your  enemy,  upon  the  least  in- 
timation of  repentance  and  asking 
forgiveness,  and  the  Lord  will  be 
equally  merciful  unto  you."  How 
beautiful,  how  appropriate  is  such 
counsel  to  the  people  of  the  Lord ! 
I  am  sure  that  no  one  admires  a 
man,  or  a  woman  either,  who  is 
stern  and  unforgiving  in  nature,  but 
we  are  naturally  drawn  toward 
those  who  are  merciful,  because,  as 
I  understand  it,  the  principle  of 
mercy  is  but  an  expression  of  the 
principle  of  love.  There  is  nothing 
so  desirable,  nothing  so  far-reach- 
ing, nothing  so  powerful  in  its  op- 
eration, on  earth,  or  in  heaven,  as 
the  principle  of  Love.  God  is  love, 
and  man  should  become  love  in  his 
conduct  and  in  his  living. 

A  very  great  and  impressive  les- 
son was  conveyed  by  the  Lord  to 
his  people  in  our  time,  in  a  revela- 
tion given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  Oh,  how  gracious,  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  is  the  word  of  the 


Lord  to  us,  whether  it  be  by  the  liv- 
ing oracles  or  by  written  revelation, 
and  we  would  do  well  to  often  con- 
sult the  standard  works  of  the 
Church,  the  Bible,  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  which 
contain  the  precious  words  of  life, 
— counsel  and  admonition  that  we 
can  depend  upon. 

The  revelation  referred  to  is 
found  in  Section  64  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  beginning  with  the 
eighth  verse.  In  order  that  I  may 
be  able  to  convey  the  right  impres- 
sion I  would  like  to  read  these 
words  to  you : 

"My  disciples,  in  days  of  old, 
sought  occasion  against  one  an- 
other, and  forgave  not  one  another 
in  their  hearts,  and  for  this  evil 
they  were  afflicted  and  sorely 
chastened." 

Now  you  see  that  the  spirit  of 
un  forgiveness  is  here  designated  a 
great  evil,  and  surely  it  must  be 
so,  and  the  displeasure  of  the  Lord 
comes  upon  those  who  indulge  in 
that  spirit.  I  think  it  must  be  from 
beneath  and  not  from  above.  It  is 
a  spirit  of  jealousy,  a  spirit  of  envy, 
a  spirit  of  fault  finding. 

"Wherefore  I  say  unto  you,  that 
ye  ought  to  forgive  one  another,  for 
he  that  forgiveth  not  his  brother  his 
trespass,  standeth  condemned  be- 
fore the  Lord,  for  there  remaineth 
in  him  the  greater  sin." 

What  a  wonderful  saying  is  this. 
It  puts  the  matter,  you  might  say, 
in  a  new  light.  The  offender  is  less 
accountable  for  sin  than  the  unfor- 
giving man  who  is  injured,  when 
his  brother  comes  to  him  and  con- 
fesses his  sin  and  is  willing  to  make 
it  right,  and  wants  to  be  reconciled, 
and  the  brother  says,  "No,  I  will 
not  forgive  you.  I  hold  it  against 
you.    I  cannot  forget  it.    I  will  not 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


forget  it,  and  I  will  not  accept  your 
offering."  That  man  stands  con- 
demned before  the  Lord. 

"I  the  Lord,  will  forgive  whom  I 
will  forgive,  but  of  you  it  is  re- 
quired to  forgive  all  men." 

That  does  not  mean,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  the  principle  of  jus- 
tice shall  not  have  its  weight,  and 
under  proper  circumstances  shall 
not  be  enforced.  Justice  must  have 
due  weight,  but  at  the  same  time 
even  where  justice  is  administered, 
as  for  instance,  by  a  court  of  juris- 
diction in  the  Church,  the  verdict, 
whatever  it  is,  should  be  made  in  a 
spirit  of  mercy. 

"And  ye  ought  to  say  in  your 
hearts,  let  God  judge  between  me 
and  thee,  and  reward  thee  accord- 
ing to  thy  deeds." 

I  do  not  think  that  any  person  or 
any  community  or  any  part  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  can  go  very  far  astray 
if  they  will  cultivate  the  spirit  of 
mercy  and  charity  and  love. 

I  stand  before  you  this  afternoon 
as  a  witness  of  the  truth  of  the 
gospel.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  and  that  he  suffered  death 
in  the  flesh  for  the  atonement  of 
sin,  and  by  reason  of  the  great  sac- 
rifice that  he  made  we  will  be  re- 
deemed, redeemed  through  his 
blood,  by  repentance  and  the  forsak- 
ing of  sin,  and  the  acceptance  of  the 
gospel.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  true  prophet  of  God.  I  know 
it  just  as  clearly  and  just  as  fully  as 
that  I  am  standing  before  you.  And 
I  know,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  re- 
joice in  the  knowledge,  that  his  suc- 
cessors in  office  have  been  and  are 
prophets  of  God,  and  that  the  divine 
authority  which  he  held,  fell  upon 
h:s  successors  without  break,  so 
that  all  the  authority  of  the  Priest- 
hood with  which  Joseph  Smith  was 


endowed  is  with  the  Church  today, 
and  is  the  authority  by  which  the 
Church  is  to  be  established,  and  the 
Saints  brought  together  and  united 
heart  and  soul,  and  by  which  also 
they  are  led  along  the  path  of  safety 
and  truth.  I  rejoice  in  this  knowl- 
edge, and  I  know,  as  I  know  that  I 
live,  that  if  I  will  submit  to 
this  authority,  if  I  will  abide  by 
the  counsels  of  the  Priesthood, 
if  I  will  honor  those  whom  God  has 
honored,  my  file  leaders,  that  all 
will  be  well  with  me,  and  that  my 
redemption  and  my  salvation  is  sure 
and  certain.  This  is  the  feeling  of 
my  heart.  This  is  my  understand- 
ing. This  is  my  testimony.  Those 
who  ignore  counsel,  those  who 
trample  upon  the  word  of  the  Lord, 
those  who  turn  their  backs  upon 
this  people  and  upon  this  work,  will 
go  into  darkness ;  they  will  lose  the 
light  of  truth,  and  their  knowledge 
and  their  testimony  will  go  from 
them.  Oh,  it  is  wonderful,  it  is 
wonderful,  when  you  think  of  it, 
the  power  that  goes  with  this  work. 
It  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  as  Pres- 
sident  Lund  said  this  morning.  The 
Lord  is  proceeding  to  do  a  wonder- 
ful work  in  the  earth,  a  marvelous 
work  and  a  wonder,  and  so  it  is — it 
is  to  me,  with  my  knowledge  of  it, 
with  my  experience,  all  that  I  have 
learned  and  all  that  I  know  about 
this  work,  and  the  spirit  of  the 
work,  to  me  it  is  a  constant  wonder 
and  a  constant  marvel.  I  feel  to 
glorify  the  name  of  the  Lord. 

I  rejoice,  brethren  and  sisters,  in 
your  fellowship,  in  your  acquaint- 
ance, to  know  that  my  lot  has  been 
cast  in  the  midst  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  I  rejoice  also  in  the  fel- 
lowship of  the  authorities  of  the 
Church.  I  can  testify,  as  Presi- 
dent Smith  testified  this  morning, 
so  far  as  my  knowledge  extends — 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


29 


it  is  not  so  great  as  his,  of  course 
— but  I  can  testify  that  the  leaders 
of  the  Church — those  he  named  and 
also  including  himself — were  men  of 
God,  men  of  truth,  men  of  sobriety, 
men  of  virtue,  men  of  absolute  re- 
liability. Their  word  was  as  good 
as  their  bond,  and  better.  Their 
word  if  they  spoke  it  was  sufficient. 
If  they  made  a  promise  you  could 
depend  upon  it,  and  that  is  the  kind 
of  men  that  we  want  for  leaders, 
and  I  am  sure  that  is  the  kind  of 
men  that  God  will  have  to  lead  his 
Church,  for  no  other  class  of  men 
could  lead  this  people;  it  would  be 
impossible. 


Now  I  pray  the  blessing  of  the 
Lord  upon  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  you  may  be  profited  by 
the  teachings  of  this  conference, 
that  you  may  carry  away  with  you 
the  spirit  of  it,  and  incorporate  it 
in  your  lives.  I  ask  this  blessing 
for  you  and  for  me  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  hymn :     "Do  what  is  right." 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sat- 
urday morning,  10  o'clock. 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered 
by  Elder  Don  B.  Colton,  president 
of  the  Uintah  stake  of  Zion. 


SECOND  DAY. 


In  the  Tabernacle,  Saturday, 
April  7,  1917,  10  a.  m. 

The  large  assembly  was  called  to 
order  by  President  Joseph  F.  Smith. 

The  representative  choir  and 
congregation  sang:  "O  ye  moun- 
tains high." 

Prayer  was  pronounced  by  Elder 
Willard  Young. 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 

Divinity  of  the  mission  and  ministry 
of  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  certainty 
of  his  resurrection— The  iris.1  faith 
and  doctrine  of  a  recent  writer  on 
higher  criticism — Our  knowledge  of 
the  resurrection  gained  largely  from 
the  Book  ,of  Mormon — Its'  certain 
uncontaminated  testimony  quoted — 
Jesus  declared  by  the  Father  four 
times,  the  fourth  time  to  the  Proph- 
et Joseph — Jesus  was  resurrected 
with  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones — 
The  resurrection  is  the  reanimation 
of  the  physical  body,  the  calling 
forth  of  the  dead  bodies  that  are  in 
their  graves,  to  life  again. 

It  is  a  solemn  and  almost  fearful 
thing  to  stand  in  the  midst  of  the 
assembled  hosts  of  Israel  with  the 
responsibility  of  addressing  them 
upon  the  living  principles  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ;  and.  yet  it 
is  also  a  grand  privilege  to  pro- 
claim those  glorious  principles  and 
to  testify  of  those  things  which  we 
ourselves  do  know.  I  have  been 
greatly  strengthened  by  the  remarks 
of  the  brethren  who  spoke  to  the 
congregations  yesterday.  They 
spoke  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
servants    of    God    usually    speak. 


They  proclaimed  the  gospel  in  no 
uncertain  terms.  There  was  no 
equivocation,  no  hesitation,  but 
they  declared  the  truth  as  the  Holy 
Ghost  gave  them  utterance,  light 
and  knowledge.  I  am  led  to  repeat 
in  my  mind  the  words  of  that  hymn 
which  we  have  just  sung,  whenever 
I  hear  the  servants  of  God  preach 
the  gospel : 

"How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints 
of  the  Lord, 

Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  his  excel- 
lent word." 

The  testimonies  of  Presidents 
Smith  and  Penrose,  concerning  the 
divinity  of  the  ministry  and  mission 
of  Jesus  Christ,  and  concerning  his 
life,  death  and  resurrection,  are 
sure.  They  are  according  to  the 
facts,  and  are  in  great  contrast  to 
the  beliefs  of  the  world  upon  these 
great  principles.  I  was  reading, 
last  evening,  an  article  by  one  of  the 
most  prominent  and  perhaps  influ- 
ential and  renowned  representatives 
of  modern  Christendom,  and  also 
one  of  the  chief  exponents  of  what 
is  known  as  higher  criticism. 

It  was  an  article  upon  the  same 
theme  which  formed  so  large  a 
part  of  President  Penrose's  dis- 
course, and  which  was  referred  to 
also  by  President  Smith.  This  pa- 
per is  the  concluding  one  of  a  series 
of  papers  written  on  "The  Last 
Days  of  Jesus  Christ."  This  paper 
is  entitled :  "Victory,"  and  the 
author  says,  in  a  foot-note  with 
reference  to  his  paper :    "This  paper 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


31 


is  not,  and  does  not  purport  to  be, 
an  argument.  It  is  simply  a  con- 
fession of  faith,  often  expressed  by 
me  before  in  sermons,  essays  and 
books ;  not  peculiar  to  me,  but  as 
old  as  Christendom,  and  the 
common  heritage  of  Christ's  pu- 
pils." Notwithstanding  he  declares 
his  paper  to  be  a  simple  confession 
of  faith,  I  wish  to  read  it  by  way  of 
contrast  to  that  which  was  said  yes- 
terday, and  to  the  truth  upon  this 
doctrine  as  it  is  set  forth  in  the 
holy  scriptures.  The  gentleman 
says : 

"The  resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ 
was  not  an  extraordinary  event.  It 
was  an  extraordinary  evidence  of  an 
ordinary  event.  All  men  die  as 
Christ  died.  All  men  ever  since  God 
breathed  into  man  the  breath  of  his 
life  have  risen  from  the  dead  as  Christ 
rose.  Death  and  resurrection  are 
synonyms.  They  are  simply  different 
aspects  of  the  same  fact.  They  are 
both  the  separation  of  the  spirit  from 
the  body.  Resurrection  is  the  up- 
springing  of  the  spirit  from  the  body. 
Death  is  the  decay  of  the  body  when 
the  spirit  has  left  the  temporary  tene- 
ment. If  I  believed  that  the  resurrec- 
tion of  Jesus  Christ  was  an  excep- 
tional event,  I  might  have  the  dif- 
ficulty in  believing  which  is  ex- 
perienced by  some  of  my  sceptical 
friends.  But  I  do  riot  think  it  was  an 
exceptional  event.  It  is  exceptional 
only  in  this  respect,  that  somehow  the 
despairing  disciples  had  evidence  of 
their  Master's  continuing  life  which 
banished  their  despair,  transformed 
their  characters,  and  endowed  them 
with  new  life.  Did  the  spirit  of  the 
Master  return  to  reanimate  the  body 
which  he  had  left?  Or  did  the  dis- 
embodied spirit  appear  to  the  unsealed 
eyes  of  his  disciples?  I  do  not  know. 
There  are  some  incidents  narrated  in 
the  gospels  which  indicate  one  conclu- 
sion,some  incidents  which  indicate  the 
other.  It  is  not  material  to  determine 
which  opinion  is  correct." 

And  that  is  what  this  man  de- 
clares a  simple  confession  of  faith. 


I  do  not  know  how  a  man  could . 
make  a  more  emphatic  confession 
of  unbelief,  or,  perhaps,  a  more 
positive  profession  of  disbelief. 
Death  and  the  resurrection  synony- 
mous !  It  is  astonishing  how  far 
away  from  the  truth  the  learned 
who  are  uninspired  by  the  Spirit 
of  God  can  wander.  Death  and  the 
resurrection  are  antonymns  of  the 
most  pronounced  type.  One  is  the 
exact  and  perfect  antithesis  of  the 
other.  Death  is  the  dissolution  of 
the  body,  and'the  resurrection  is  the 
reanimation  of  the  body;  yea  the 
actual  and  literal  reuniting  of  the 
Spirit  with  the  body.  "Not  material 
to  determine"  whether  or  not  the 
"Spirit  reanimated  the  body  it  had 
left?"  What  folly!  It  is,  possibly, 
the  most  material,  fundamental,  and 
vital  question  of  the  whole  gospel. 
For  if  Christ  be  not  raised  from 
the  dead,  as  related  in  the  scrip- 
tures, then  our  hope  is  vain,  and 
there  is  no  salvation.  If  this  man's 
doctrine  is  true,  then  the  whole  life 
and  ministry  of  Christ  is  false,  and 
Christ  is  not  the  first  fruits  of 
them  that  slept,  and  Christ  did  not 
break  the  bands  of  death,  nor  open 
the  graves  for  those  who  die.  He 
says  that  death  and  the  resurrection 
both  are  the  separation  of  the  spirit 
from  the  body,  or  "simply  different 
aspects  of  the  same  fact."  The 
separation  of  the  spirit  from  the 
body  is  not  the  resurrection  at  all. 
The  resurrection  is  the  resuscitation 
of  the  body  which  shall  be  taken  up 
again  by  the  spirit,  and  that  resur- 
rection or  re-uniting  of  the  body 
and  the  spirit  will  be  the  redemp- 
tion of  the  soul  of  man. 

It  is  the  mortal  body  that  dies, 
not  the  immortal  spirit.  The  spirit 
which  is  alive  and  does  not  die  can- 
not be  resurrected.  The  body  dies 
when    the   spirit    departs    from    it. 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Resurrection  means  to  come  from 
death  unto  life,  and  as  it  is  the  body 
that  dies,  it  is  the  body  that  must 
be  raised  up  and  brought  to  life 
again.  The  term  resurrection  is 
never  used  save  in  connection  with 
the  body.  Now,  he  declares  in  his 
confession  of  faith  he  "does  not 
know,"  that  the  disembodied  spirit 
reanimated  that  body  which  .died 
when  it  hung  crucified  upon  the 
cross  and  which  was  taken  down 
and  buried.  Thank  the  Lord  that 
the  scriptures  as  quoted  yesterday 
set  forth  in  no  uncertain  terms  the 
fact  that  that  very  body  was  reani- 
mated and  resurrected  and  taken 
up.  It  did  rise  again  on  the  third 
day.  "If  there  are"  as  set  forth 
here,  "some  incidents  narrated  in 
the  gospels  which  indicate  a  con- 
trary conclusion,"  it  is  only  because 
men  who  find  such  incidents  are 
not  enlightened  by  the  spirit  of 
truth,  which  would  testify  to  them 
of  the  fact  that  Christ  did  arise  and 
did  show  himself  to  his  servants 
and  did  minister  among  them.  And 
if  this  is  to  be  held  as  uncertain,  if 
it  is  to  be  held  up  by  the  spirit  of 
.higher  criticism  to  doubt,  then  what 
is  there  in  the  Bible  history,  or  ac- 
count of  the  life  and  ministry  of 
Jesus  Christ  that  can  be  relied 
upon  ?  Can  we  not  likewise  hold  up 
to  doubt  every  other  incident  re- 
corded there  concerning  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ?  May  we  not  doubt 
the  account  of  his  birth,  and  of  the 
appearance  of  the  angels  upon  that 
glorious  occasion  singing  that  song 
of  peace  on  earth  and  good  will  to 
men?  May  we  not,  and  are  we  not 
justified,  in  doubting  the  story  that 
his  parents  took  him  into  Egypt ;  in 
doubting  that,  as  a  boy,  he  stood 
among  the  wise  men  discussing  the 
great  principles  of  scripture?  May 
we  not  doubt    his    sermon  on  the 


mount,  and  doubt  his  miracles, 
doubt  his  selection  and  choosing  of 
twelve  apostles,  and  sending  them 
forth  to  preach  the  gospel?  We 
may  doubt,  nay,  are  we  not  forced 
to  doubt?  all  of  his  doctrine,  every- 
thing he  said  or  did  as  recorded  in 
the  scripture,  if  we  cannot  rely  up- 
on that  which  is  declared  concern- 
ing his  resurrection  from  the  dead. 
Multitudes  of  Christians  have  al- 
ready rejected  the  Bible  as  history 
because  of  such  "simple  confessions 
of  faith,"  as  here  made  by  this 
man.  There  is  no  doubt  of  any  of 
these  things  in  the  minds  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints. 

We  have  a  knowledge  of  the 
"truth  of  what  is  set  forth  in  the  holy 
Bible,  and  in  this  we  are  more  for- 
tunate than  the  world.  If  it  is 
true,  as  revealed  in  this  dispensa- 
tion, that  many  great  and  precious 
things  have  been  taken  away  from 
that  book  which  was  delivered  to 
the  Jews,-  the  Bible,  the  history  of 
Christ  and  of  his  disciples,  and  as 
a  result  of  this  the  world  is  wan- 
dering in  unbelief,  in  disbelief,  in 
doubt,  and  in  denial  of  the  things 
which  are  set  forth  in  the  holy 
scriptures, — we  Latter-day  Saints 
are  more  fortunate  than  the  world, 
and  it  is  our  mission  to  so  declare 
the  glorious  truth  that  the  world 
may  become  as  fortunate  as  are  the 
Latter-day  Saints  with  respect  to 
understanding  it.  These  many  pre- 
cious things  which  have  been  taken 
out  of  the  word  of  God  by  wicked 
men,  the  result  of  which  has  been  to 
obscure  the  true  word  of  God,  as 
we  find  it  in  the  scriptures,  have 
been  revealed  again  in  the  last  days 
in  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  This  is  a  volume  of  scrip- 
ture of  equal  authority  and  equally 
divine  with  the  Holy  Bible.  It  is  an 
historical    record    wherein   is    pre- 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


33 


served  in  fulness  and  purity  the 
great  truths  that  are  recorded  in 
the  Holy  Bible, — with  perhaps  this 
difference,  that  those  precious  parts, 
which  make  clear  the  truth  to  the 
understanding  of  every  rational 
man,  are  not  missing,  but  they  are 
supplied.  President  Penrose  yes- 
terday set  forth  the  truth  concern- 
ing the  resurrection  of  the  Lord,  as 
it  is  plainly  written  in  the  New 
Testament.  He  explained  his  ap- 
pearing before  his  disciples  in  his 
body  that  had  been  crucified,  his  ex- 
hibiting before  them  the  wounds  in 
his  hands  and  feet  and  side,  invit- 
ing them  to  handle  him  and  see  for 
themselves  that  it  was  not  a  spirit, 
but  Christ  himself,  who  had  been 
crucified  and  buried,  but  had  risen 
from  the  grave.  He  set  forth  the 
truth  that  Christ  broke  bread  with 
them ;  that  he  ate  fish  and  honey- 
comb with  them ;  that  he  ministered 
among  them  and  made  them  under- 
stand, not  in  some  way  uncertain, 
but  in  a  most  sure  and  positive  way, 
that  he  indeed  was  alive  again. 
Corroborating  the  scriptures  and  as 
a  witness  of  the  New  Testament 
with  reference  to  these  great  ques- 
tions, stands  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
Let  us  read  a  word  or  two  from  that 
sacred  record : 

"Jesus  Christ  sheweth  himself  unto 
the  people  of  Nephi,  as  the  multitude 
were  gathered  together  in  the  land 
Bountiful,  and  .did  minister  unto  them; 
and  on  this  wise  did  he  shew  him- 
self unto  them. 

"And  now  it  came  to  pass  that  there 
were  a  great  multitude  gathered  to- 
gether, of  the  people  of  Nephi,  round 
about  the  temple  which  was  in  the 
land  Bountiful;  and  they  were  mar- 
veling and  wondering  one  with  an- 
other, and  were  shewing  one  to  an- 
other the  great  and  marvelous  change 
which  had  taken  place; 

"And  they  were  also  conversing 
about  this  Jesus   Christ  of  whom  the 


sign  had  been  given  concerning  his 
death. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  while 
they  were  thus  conversing  one  with 
another,  they  heard  a  voice  as  if  it 
came  out  of  heaven;  and  they  cast 
their  eyes  round  about,  for  they  un- 
derstood not  the  voice  which  they 
heard,  and  it  was  not  a  harsh  voice, 
neither  was  it  a  loud  voice;  never- 
theless, and  notwithstanding  it  being 
a  small  voice,  it  did  pierce  them  that 
did  hear  to  the  center,  insomuch  that 
there  was  no  part  of  their  frame  that 
it  did  not  cause  to  quake;  yea,  it  did 
pierce  them  to  the  very  soul,  and  did 
cause  their  hearts  to  burn. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  again  they 
heard  the  voice,  and  they  understood 
it  not; 

"And  again  the  third  time  they  did 
hear  the  voice,  and  did  open  their 
ears  to  hear  it;  and  their  eyes  were 
towards  the  sound  thereof;  and  they 
did  look  steadfastly  towards  heaven, 
from  whence  the  sound  came; 

"And  behold  the  third  time  they  did 
understand  the  voice  which  they 
heard:  and  it  said  unto  them, 

"Behold  my  beloved  Son,  in  whom 
I  am  well  pleased,  in  whom  I  have 
glorified  my  name;  hear  ye  him. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  as  they  un- 
derstood, they  cast  their  eyes  up 
again  towards  heaven;  and  behold, 
they  saw  a  man  descending  out  of 
heaven;  and  he  was  clothed  in  a  white 
robe,  and  he  came  down  and  stood  in 
the  midst  of  them,  and  the  eyes  of 
the  whole  multitude  were  turned  upon 
him,  and  they  durst  not  open  their 
mouths,  even  one  to  another,  and 
wist  not  what  it  meant,  for  they 
thought  it  was  an  angel  that  had  ap- 
peared unto  them. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  he 
stretched  forth  his  hand  and  spake 
unto  the  people,  saying, 

"Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  whom 
the  prophets  testified  shall  come  into 
the  world; 

"And  behold,  I  am  the  light  and 
the  life  of  the  world;  and  I  have  drunk 
out  of  that  bitter  cup  which  the  Father 
hath  given  me,  and  have  glorified  the 
Father  in  taking  upon  me  the  sins  of 
the  world,  in  the  which  I  have  suf- 
fered the  will  of  the  Father  in  all 
things  from  the  beginning. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  when 
Jesus    had    spoken    these    words,    the 


34 


GENERAL   CONFERENCE. 


whole  multitude  fell  to  the  earth  for 
they  remembered  that  it  had  been 
prophesied  among  them  that  Christ 
should  show  himself  unto  them  after 
his  ascension  into  heaven. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  Lord 
spake  unto  them  saying, 

"Arise  and  come  forth  unto  me,  that 
ye  may  thrust  your  hands  into  my 
side,  and  also  that  ye  may  feel  the 
prints  of  the  nails  in  my  hands  and 
in  my  feet,  that  ye  may  know  that  I 
am  the  God  of  Israel,  and  the  God  of 
the  whole  earth,  and  have  been  slain 
for  the  sins  of  the  world. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  mul 
titude  went  forth,  and  thrust  their 
hands  into  his  side,  and  did  feel  the 
prints  of  the  mails  in  his  hands  and 
in  his  feet;  and  this  they  did  do,  go- 
ing forth  one  by  one,  until  they  had 
all  gone  forth,  and  did  see  with  their 
eyes,  and  did  feel  with  their  hands, 
and  did  know  of  a  surety,  and  did  bear 
record,  that  it  was  he  of  whom  it 
was  written  by  the  prophets  that 
should   come. 

"And  when  they  had  all  gone  forth 
and  had  witnessed  for  themselves, 
they  did  cry  out  with  one  accord,  say- 
ing, 

"Hosana!  blessed  be  the  name  of 
the  Most  High  God!  And  they  did 
fall  down  at  the  feet  of  Jesus,  and  did 
worship  him."  (Ill  Nephi  11.) 

There  is  a  record  untrammeled 
and  uncontaminated,  revealed  by 
the  power  of  God,  translated  by  the 
power  of  God,  come  down  to  us 
as  a  history  that  cannot  be  refuted, 
to  corroborate  the  history  that  we 
may  read  in  the  Bible  concerning 
this  great  and  important,  all-import- 
ant, incident  and  fact  of  the  res- 
urrection from  the  dead,  the  reani- 
mation  of  the  crucified  body  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

Joseph  Smith,  in  the  dispensa- 
tion of  the  fulness  of  times,  when 
he  went  to  inquire  of  the  Lord  for 
knowledge  and  understanding,  had 
the  great  and  glorious  privilege  of 
a  visitation  from  the  Father  and  the 
Son,  and  again  for  the  fourth  time 


in  recorded  history,  God  bore  rec- 
ord of  his  divine  son,  by  his  own 
voice.  Three  times  the  Lord  had 
witnessed  him  out  of  heaven,  but 
the  fourth  time  he  declared  it  in  the 
presence  of  Joseph  the  prophet.  On 
the  banks  of  the  Jordan,  when  he 
had  come  from  the  watery  grave 
in  newness  of  life,  and  to  fulfil  all 
righteousness,  the  voice  of  God 
sounded  from  heaven  declaring, 
"This  is  my  beloved  Son,  in  whom 
I  am  well  pleased."  Once  again  on  a 
high  mountain  in  Palestine,  at  the 
time  of  the  transfiguration,  the 
same  voice  of  God  out  of  heaven 
was  heard  saying,  "Th:s  is  my  be- 
loved Son,  in  whom  I  am  well 
pleased ;  hear  ye  him."  Again,  to 
the  multitude  gathered  about  the 
temple,  in  the  land  Bountiful,  on 
the  western  hemisphere,  during 
Christ's  personal  appearance  to  the 
Nephites,  God,  his  father,  bore  rec- 
ord of  him  in  these  words :  "Be- 
hold my  beloved  Son  in  whom  I 
am  well  pleased,  in  whom  I  have 
glorified  my  name;  hear  ye  him." 
Then  to  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet, 
in  the  year  1820,  in  the  grove  at 
Palmyra,  N.  Y.,  accompanied  by  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ  and  both  in  the 
presence  of  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
God,  the  Father,  pointing  to  the 
Son  and  addressing  Joseph  said, 
"This  is  my  beloved  Son,  hear 
him !" 

He  was  resurrected,  he  had  a 
body  of  flesh  and  bones  as  tangible 
as  man's  and  so  had  the  Father. 
So  will  all  men  have  when  they 
arise  from  the  dead.  The  resurrec- 
tion is  not  the  separation  of  the 
spirit  from  the  body.  The  resurrec- 
tion is  not  synonymous  with  death. 
The  resurrection  is  the  opening  of 
the  graves,  the  calling  forth  of  the 
dead  that  are  in  them,  the  giving 
up  from  the  sea  of  the  dead  that  are 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


35 


in  it,  the  re-animation  of  the  phys- 
ical bodies,  the  mortal  bodies  of 
men  that  have  been  "sown  in  cor- 
ruption and  raised  in  incorruption," 
"sown  in  .dishonor"  and  raised  in 
honor  and  glory,  sown  in  mortality 
and  raised  in  immortality,  "sown 
in  weakness  but  raised  in  strength," 
and  glorified  like  unto  the  glorious 
body  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
There  is  no  other  resurrection,  no 
matter  what  the  confessions  of 
faith,  of  the  agnostic  and  unbeliev- 
ing of  the  world  may  be. 

I  rejoice  in  the  truth,  in  the 
knowledge  of  the  truth  as  it  has 
been  revealed  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints  in  these  last  days.  I  rejoice 
that  men  can  stand  up  and  by  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  declare 
the  truth  as  God  declared  it  in,  as 
I  say,  no  uncertain  terms,  but  in  a 
manner  that  carries  faith  and  con- 
viction and  knowledge  and  testi- 
mony with  it,  even  unto  eternal 
life.  God  bless  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  make  them  true  and  faith- 
ful. These  things  have  been  re- 
vealed once  more  in  these  the  last 
days.  I  testify  of  their  truth,  and 
I  live  in  the  hope  of  the  glorious 
resurrection,  that  I,  with  the  faith- 
ful in  Christ,  may  be  permitted  to 
come  forth  in  the  resurrection  of 
the  just,  clothed  with  glory,  immor- 
tality, and  eternal  life,  and  may  God 
implant  this  faith  in  increasing 
ratio  in  my  heart  and  in  the  hearts 
of  all  who  take  upon  themselves 
the  name  of  Christ  the  Lord,  that 
we  may  endure  faithful  to  the  testi- 
ony  to  the  end.  Then  I  know  that 
we  shall  arise  again,  to  be  exalted 
and  to  sit  in  glory  in  the  celestial 
kingdom  of  our  God,  and  praise  be 
to  God  the  Father  and  to  Jesus 
Christ  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
for  this  hope  forever,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.     Amen. 


A  sacred  solo,  entitled,  "O  rest  in 
the  Lord,"  was  sung  by  Sister  Lil- 
lie  S.  Shipp. 


ELDER  GEORGE  A.  SMITH. 

Duty  of  the  Saints  to  teach  the  gospel 
— Because  of  prejudice  many  will 
not  hear  the  truth  from  the  elders 
of  the  Church — It  is  the  duty  of  the 
.Saints  to  break  down  this  prejudice 
— The  appearance  of  the  Father  and 
the  Son  to  Joseph  Smith  began  a  new 
religious  .era  in  the  world — Some 
points  of  difference  between  our  be- 
lief and  that  of  other  Christians — 
A  prayer  that  the  Saints  may  be 
strengthened  to  carry  the  burden  of 
preaching  the  true  gospel  to  all  na- 
tions. 

I  crave  an  interest  in  your  faith 
and  prayers,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  the  time  occupied  by  me 
may  be  profitable,  and  that  the  Lord 
may  bless  me  to  say  something  that 
will  be  worth  remembering.  It  is 
often  quite  a  difficult  task  for  me 
to  stand  in  the  presence  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  to  explain  the  gospel, 
and  I  sometimes  would  shrink  from 
the  call  but  for  the  fact  that  I  know 
that  our  heavenly  Father  inspires  us 
when  we  put  our  trust  in  him. 

We  have  heard  many  splendid 
things  in  this  conference  and  have 
rejoiced  in  the  companionship  of  the 
Spirit  of  our  heavenly  Father.  To- 
day, how  grateful  we  ought  to  be 
at  being  permitted  to  assemble  as 
we  have  in  this  comfortable  build- 
ing apart  from  the  turmoil  and 
strife  that  exists  in  the  world.  We 
are  not  here  as  a  matter  of  indiffer- 
ence, but  because  we  believe  in  God 
the  eternal  Father,  and  in  the  divine 
mission  of  his  Son  Jesus  Christ. 
We  are  here  because  we  desire  to 
be  taught  under  the  influence  of  the 
Spirit  that  comes  from  on  high. 
There  are  many  religious  congrega- 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


tions  in  the  world,  that  assemble 
from  time  to  time,  and  many  beau- 
tiful truths  are  taught  them.  The 
ethics  of  life  are  enlarged  upon,  and 
people  go  away  determined  to  live 
better  lives.  There  is  a  disposition 
on  the  part  of  many  of  our  Father's 
children  to  learn  what  he  would 
have  them  .do,  and  it  devolves  upon 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and 
your  associates  in  this  Church,  to 
teach  them  what  they  ought  to  do. 
The  world  has  had  the  Bible  for 
hundreds  of  years,  and  it  has  been 
explained  by  the  wisdom  of  men, 
but  because  of  departing  from  its 
teachings  and  because  of  iniquity 
the  children  of  men  fell  into  dark- 
ness, and  it  became  necessary  for 
the  Lord  to  restore  his  priesthood 
and  authority  upon  the  earth  that 
the  truth  might  be  proclaimed  in 
power.  Sometimes  our  brethren 
and  sisters  of  other  faiths  feel  that 
we  are  egotistical  in  the  claim  we 
make.  That  this  is  the  only  Church 
recognized  by  the  Lord  is'  our 
claim.  This  is  our  Father's  work, 
and  he  established  it.  The  Lord 
himself  daclared  to  Joseph  Smith 
that  he  was  not  pleased  with  the 
churches  that  existed  in  the  world, 
in  the  year  1820.  That  does  not 
mean  that  he  was  not  pleased  with 
the  virtues  of  those  humble  people 
who  went  to  him  in  prayer  and  de- 
sired to  learn  of  his  will,  but  he  was 
not  pleased  with  the  man-made 
churches,  and  the  unauthorized 
ministers  who  preached  for  doctrine 
the  commandments  of  men.  Be- 
cause of  a  misunderstanding,  or  a 
lack  of  understanding,  of  the  scrip- 
tures, gradually  his  children  were 
being  led  farther  from  the  truth. 
In  his  own  way,  he  preached  the 
gospel  to  the  children  from  the  be- 
ginning, by  means  of  Moses  and 
the  prophets,  by  means  of  his  only 


begotten  Son  in  the  flesh.  From 
generation  to  generation  and  from 
age  to  age,  he  refreshed  the  mem- 
ories of  men  and  renewed  unto 
them  his  sacred  teachings  through 
the  servants  that  he  appointed  him- 
self. Because  of  the  wickedness 
that  existed  in  the  earth  after  the 
apostles  and  prophets  were  slain, 
the  minds  of  men  were  darkened. 
While  they  had  the  scriptures,  they 
wrested  them  to  their  own  con- 
fusion, and  in  many  cases  to  their 
own  loss  of  faith.  The  world  was 
groping  in  darkness,  so  the  Lord 
chose  another  servant,  not  a  king 
nor  an  emperor  nor  a  president,  but 
he  chose  a  boy,  a  humble  young 
man  not  yet  fifteen  years  of  age, 
to  restore  to  this  world  the  knowl- 
edge that  he  is  God,  and  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  and  that  the  resurrec- 
tion is  a  reality. 

With  the  thousands  of  mission- 
aries who  have  gone  abroad  in  the 
world,  with  millions  of  tracts  and 
books  that  have  been  distributed 
broadcast,  teaching  the  truth  of  the 
resurrection,  it  is  strange  that  so 
many  of  our  Father's  children  fail 
yet  to  comprehend  it.  The  adver- 
sary has  used  his  strongest  effort 
to  prevent  the  spread  of  this  and 
other  truths  of  the  gospel.  The 
good  people  of  the  world  would  re- 
ceive it  in  their  hearts  if  it  could 
be  explained  to  them,  but  because 
the  adversary  has  vilified  and  ma- 
ligned and  misrepresented  the  ser- 
vants of  the  Lord,  the  honest  in 
heart  all  over  the  world  are  afraid 
of  us  and  will  not  listen  to  the  pure 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  it  is  pro- 
claimed by  our  missionaries.  Yet, 
when  it  is  offered  to  them  by 
other  means  than  an  elder  of  Israel 
it  appeals  to  them.  It  is  your  duty 
and  mine,  as  bearers  of  the  priest- 
hood, by  tact  and  brotherly  love  and 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH. 


37 


faith,  to  overcome  the  prejudice 
that  the  adversary  has  sown  in  the 
hearts  of  our  Father's  children 
against  us,  to  break  down  the  ani- 
mosity that  exists  in  some  cases 
even  in  the  minds  of  good  men  and 
good  women,  and  teach  them  the 
gospel  of  our  Lord,  that  it  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation  unto 
all  those  who  believe  and  obey  it. 
I  do  not  become  discouraged  be- 
cause this  truth  does  not  find  its 
way  more  rapidly.  On  the  contrary 
I  see  in  the  events  of  today  the 
hand-dealing  of  an  allwise  Father 
to  prepare  the  way  for  the  spread 
of  the  gospel  that  he  has  restored  to 
the  earth  in  our  day.  He  has  deter- 
mined that  the  message  that  was 
proclaimed  by  his  servants  in  ages 
past,  renewed  and  promulgated  by 
his  servants  in  the  latter  days,  shall 
be  heard,  and  by  the  power  of  his 
might  he  will  level  the  conditions  of 
this  world  and  humble  the  children 
of  men  until  they  are  repentant  and 
willing  to  listen.  The  truths  that 
we  are  teaching,  that  is,  the  truths 
that  God  required  us  to  teach  in  the 
world,  are  finding  their  way.  The 
distinction  between  this  great 
Church  and  that  of  all  other 
churches  from  the  beginning  has 
been  that  we  believe  in  divine  reve- 
lation; we  believe  that  our  Father 
speaks  to  man  today  as  he  has  .done 
from  the  time  of  Adam.  We  be- 
lieve and  we  know — which  is  more 
than  mere  belief — that  our  Father 
has  set  his  hand  in  this  world  for 
the  salvation  of  the  children  of 
men.  It  is  gratifying  to  me  to  find 
various  denominations  of  the  world 
accepting  the  truths  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  as  they  are  por- 
trayed in  the  scriptures,  and  ex- 
plained by  the  gift  and  power  of 
our  heavenly  Father  in  our  day.  I 
am   grateful  to  find    my    Father's 


children,  your  brothers  and  sisters 
and  mine,  here  and  there,  compre- 
hending the  truth.  When  they  re- 
ceive the  gospel  in  their  hearts  they 
are  impressed  by  some  portion  of  it, 
and  they  are  not  afraid  to  promul- 
gate it  in  the  world. 

In  the  year  1830,  when  this 
Church  was  brganized,  there  was 
not  upon  the  earth  a  church  organi- 
zation that  would  announce  that 
they  believed  that  God  would  reveal 
himself  to  the  children  of  men.  The 
teachings  of  the  churches  were  all 
contrary  to  that,  and  our  Father 
saw  the  futility  of  trying  to  save 
his  sons  and  daughters  until  they 
could  be  inspired  to  come  to  him 
with  the  belief  that  he  would  hear 
and  answer  their  prayers.  When 
the  boy  prophet,  in  the  woods  of 
Palmyra,  saw  the  Father  and  the 
Son,  and  realized  that  they  were 
indeed  personages,  that  they  could 
hear  and  reply  to  what  he  said,  it 
began  a  new  era  in  this  world,  and 
laid  a  foundation  for  the  faith  of 
the  children  of  men.  They  could 
now  pray  to  our  Father  in  heaven 
and  realize  that  he  could  hear  and 
answer  their  prayers,  that  there  was 
a  connection  between  the  heavens 
and  the  earth.  Time  will  not  permit 
me  to  go  into  detail  and  point  out 
that  there  is  development  even  in 
the  churches  of  the  world  along  this 
line.  I  would  like  to  digress  far 
enough  to  say  that  I  personally  do 
not  desire  to  be  understood  to  be 
finding  fault  and  criticizing  the 
people  who  belong  to  the  various 
denominations  of  the  world.  I  am 
thankful  that  there  are  in  so  many 
of  them  good  men  and  good  women 
who  believe  in  him  and  with  the 
l:ght  that  they  have  serve  God ;  but 
the  fact  remains  that  our  Father 
has  established  in  this  world,  his 
Church.     He  has   conferred    upon 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


men  in  this  day  his  authority,  and 
there  is  no  other  authority  in  the 
world  that  he  will  recognize  but 
that  which  he  himself  has  insti- 
tuted ;  and  when  I  say  that,  I  do  not 
say  it  in  unkindness  or  with  a  feel- 
ing of  harshness  towards  any  of 
our  Father's  children.  I,  with  my 
brethren  of  this  Church,  desire  their 
welfare,  and  we  have  evidenced  our 
desires  by  lives  in  the  mission  field, 
begging  our  bread  from  door  to 
door,  traveling  without  purse  or 
script,  living  among  the  people,  to 
share  with  them  the  glorious  truth 
that  our  Father  has  made  known 
unto  us.  While  the  adversary  may 
inspire  in  some  a  feeling  of  distrust 
of  us,  the  time  will  come — and  that 
time,  in  my  judgment,  is  not  far 
off — when  they  will  realize  that  this 
body  of  men  have  dedicated  their 
lives  to  the  salvation  of  mankind. 
Occasional  changes  in  the  creeds  of 
the  churches,  indicate  the  tren.d  of 
the  times.  I  believe  I  will  read  to 
you  just  briefly  three  Articles  of 
Faith,  in  order  that  you  may  have 
in  mind  what  we  believe  that  was 
different  to  the  belief  of  the  world. 
The  principles  outlined  in  these  Ar- 
ticles were  believed  by  us  in  the 
year  1830,  and  are  as  follows : 

"We  believe  in  God  the  eternal 
Father,  and  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ, 
and  in  the  Holy  Ghost. 

"We  believe  all  that  God  has  re- 
vealed, all  that  he  does  now  reveal, 
and  we  believe  that  he  will  y,et  reveal 
many  great  and  important  things  per- 
taining to  the  kingdom  of  God. 

"We  believe  in  the  literal  gathering 
of  Israel,  and  in  the  restoration  of  the 
Ten  Tribes;  that  Zion  will  be  built 
upon  this  continent;  that  Christ  will 
reign  personally  upon  the  earth,  and 
that  the  earth  will  be  renewed  and 
receive  its  paradisaical  glory." 

That,  in  brief,  is  a  portion  of 
what  we  believe  as  the  members  of 


the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  that  was  not  be- 
lieved by  the  Christian  world  when 
this  Church  was  organized.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  and  his  brother 
Hyrum  laid  down  their  lives  in  Car- 
thage jail,  and  sealed  with  their 
blood,  their  testimony  to  the  truth 
of  the  articles  that  I  have  just  read, 
in  connection  with  some  of  the 
others.  Now,  after  all  these  years 
have  gone  by,  we  find  the  various 
churches  adopting  some  of  these, 
among  them  the  Congregational 
Church  in  the  United  States.  We 
find  them  revising  their  creed,  and 
I  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that 
since  1830,  practically  every  Chris- 
tian church  has  revised  its  creed  to 
conform  to  the  advancement  of  civ- 
ilization and  the  demands  of  its 
members.  As  far  as  I  know  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  stands  alone,  having  an- 
nounced its  creed  to  the  world,  in 
1842,  and  it  is  in  force  today  as 
perfectly  as  the  day  that  it  came 
from  the  pen  of  the  Prophet.  In 
the  Outlook  of  November,  1913,  is 
the  following: 

"The  triennial  meeting  of  the  Na- 
tional Council  of  Congregational 
churches  in  the  United  States,  at 
Kansas  City,  Missouri,  during  the  last 
week  of  October,  was  noteworthy  for 
the  constitutional  changes  it  adopted, 
with  a  view  to  greater  denominational 
efficiency.  Since  its  meeting^  in  1910 
at  Boston  a  committee  of  nineteen 
has  been  engaged  in  working  out  the 
improvements  which  have  now  been 
adopted,  with  but  a  single  negative 
vote,  by  a  body  of  six  hundred  dele- 
gates." 

Note  the  change  in  the  creed  in 
the  year  1910.  "The  changes  thus 
effected  consist  in  a  new  confession 
of  religious  belief." 

Why  a  new  confession  of  relig- 
ious behef  ?    Because  they  have  felt 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH. 


39 


that  they  have  outgrown  the  old 
confession,  and  that,  to  my  judg- 
ment, is  a  step  in  advance.  Contin- 
uing : 

"The  changes  thus  effected  consist 
in  a  new  confession  of  religious  be- 
lief, and  a  new  plan  of  church  polity. 
As  to  the  former,  it  is  remarkable  for 
'its  brevity  and  evangelical  simplicity, 
condensed,  as  it  is,  into  less  than  two 
hundred  words,  strongly  contrasting 
thus  with  the  extended  statement  set 
forth  in  1883  [when  they  announced 
their  creed].  A  close  approach  to  it 
was  made  in  1906  [when  they  rean- 
nounced  their  creed],  by  the  state- 
ment drawn  up  and  agreed  to  for  the 
then  proposed  union  of  the  Congrega- 
tional, Methodist,  Protestant  and 
United  Brethren  churches." 

Now  I  call  your  attention  to  the 
fact  that  reference  is  made  to  the 
change  of  their  creed  and  a  new 
policy,  in  order  that  they  may  sat- 
isfy those  who  worsh-p  in  that 
great  church.  Why  the  necessity  of 
change?  Because  the  creed  of  the 
Congregational  church,  good  as  it 
may  have  been,  helpful  as  it  may 
have  been  to  its  members,  was  not 
the  work  of  our  heavenly  Father, 
but  was  the  work  of  man.  That  is 
the  distinction  between  the  creed  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  and  all  others.  This 
is  their  creed,  the  new  one  just 
adopted,  and  I  would  like  you  to 
compare  it,  if  you  will,  with  the 
Articles  of  Faith  of  our  Church  that 
I  have  read  to  you  already.  Con- 
tinuing : 

"We  believe  in  God  the  Father,  in- 
finite in  wisdom,  goodness  and  love, 
and  in  Jesus  Christ  his  Son,  our  Lord 
and  Savior,  who,  for  us  and  our  salva- 
tion, lived  and  died,  rose  again,  and 
liveth  evermore." 

Now,  that  is  very  much,  it  seems 
to    me,    in     substance,     what    the 


Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  has  been  teaching  from 
the  beginning. 

"And  in  the  Holy  Spirit  who  taketh 
of  the  things  of  Christ  and  revealeth 
them  to  us,  renewing,  comforting  and 
inspiring  the  souls  of  men.  We  are 
united  in  striving  to  know  the  will  of 
God  as  taught  in  the  holy  scriptures, 
and  in  our  purpose  to  walk  in  the 
ways  of  the  Lord,  made  known  or  to 
be  made  known  to  us." 

Is  that  not  a  plain  and  distinct 
announcement  of  a  belief  in  revela- 
tion, in  that  God  will  make  known 
his  will  to  the  children  of  men — the 
very  thing  that  differentiates  this 
Church,  and  has  done  from  the  be- 
ginning, from  all  the  organizations 
of  the  world? 

"We  hold  it  to  be  the  mission  of 
the  Church  of  Christ  to  proclaim  the 
gospel  to  all  mankind,  exalting  for 
worship  the  one  true  God,  and 
laboring  for  the  progress  ,of  knowl- 
edge and  promotion  of  justice,  the 
triumph  of  peace,  and  the  realization 
of  human  brotherhood.  Depending, 
as  did  our  fathers,  upon  the  continued 
guidance  of  the  Holy  Spirit  to  lead 
us  into  all  truth.  We  work  and  pray 
for  the  transformation  of  the  world 
into  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  we  look 
with  faith  for  the  triumph  of  right- 
eousness and  for  life  and  glory  ever- 
lasting.    Amein." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice 
that  another  great  organization  has 
taken  a  step  forward  and  is  willing 
to  announce  its  belief  in  the  ability 
and  power  of  God  to  teach  his  chil- 
dren upon  the  earth.  I  am  grateful 
for  this  announcement,  and  for 
many  others  that  have  been  made 
in  the  last  few  years,  that  time  will 
not  permit  me  to  refer  to  this 
morning. 

I  am  thankful  for  the  blessing  of 
our  Father  that  has  been  extended 
to  the  Latter-dav  Saints,  that  we 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


have  received  the  truth,  and  I  do 
not  feel  that  we  are  egotistical,  or 
feel  that  we  have  been  chosen  above 
our  fellows,  but  rather  that  with  the 
blessing  that  has  come  to  us  the 
Lord  has  placed  upon  us  the  re- 
sponsibility, that  we  must  go  into 
all  the  world  and  preach  the  gospel 
unto  every  creature,  before  the  end 
shall  come. 

May  the  Lord  strengthen  our 
backs  for  the  burden.  May  he  in- 
spire us  to  righteous  living  that  will 
increase  our  faith  and  strengthen 
us  for  the  work  we  have  to  do.  May 
he  give  our  brethren  and  sisters  of 
this  world  an  understanding  of  our 
purpose,  that  they  may  realize  thai 
it  is  with  genuine  love  and  devotion 
that  we  strive  to  extend  the  glorious 
message  of  life  and  salvation  to 
them.  I  know  that  this  is  our 
Father's  work.  I  know  that  it  is 
the  power  of  God  unto  salvation ; 
and,  standing  as  I  do  in  your  pres- 
ence, and  in  the  presence  of  the 
Lord,  expecting  in  the  not  far  dis- 
tant future  to  give  an  account  to 
him  for  the  time  that  I  have  lived 
in  the  world,  I  bear  my  testimony 
to  the  divine  mission  of  the  Savior, 
and  to  that  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 

The  first  requisite  in  a  servant  of 
God — The  Book  of  Abraham — Truth 
sneaks  for  itself — The  willing  and 
the  unwilling — Optimism  versus 
pessimism — Duties  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles — Their  spirit  and  attitude. 

"I'll    go    where    you    want   me    to   go, 
dear  Lord, 
Over  mountain  or  plain  or  sea, 
I'll    say   what   you    want   me    to    say, 
dear  Lord, 
T'll  be  what  you  want  me  to  be." 

This  little  verse  embodies,  to  my 
mind,    the  true  spirit  of  a  Latter- 


day  Saint,  the  spirit  that  should 
actuate  every  man  and  woman  in 
the  Church  of  God.  It  is  the  spirit 
of  the  gospel,  whose  divine  Author 
came  not  to  do  his  own  will,  but  the 
will  of  the  Father  who  sent  him. 
I  used  to  think  that  the  first  re- 
quisite in  a  servant  of  the  Lord — 
say  a  bishop,  was  that  he  be  an 
able  business  man,  and  I  still  believe 
business  ability  to  be  a  very  valua- 
ble asset  in  a  bishop  of  this  Church. 
But  I  have  learned  that  it  is  not  the 
first  requisite.  The  first  requisite 
in  a  bishop  always  has  been  and 
always  will  be,  that  he  manifest  a 
willingness  to  serve  God.  I  used  to 
think  that  the  first  requisite  in  an 
apostle  was  that  he  be  a  preacher 
and  a  writer,  and  that  he  go  some- 
where ;  but  I  have  also  revised  my 
opinion  upon  that  point.  The  first 
requisite  in  an  apostle  is  that  he 
shall  be  a  willing  worker  for  God, 
to  go  where  he  is  sent,  to  stay 
where  he  is  put,  to  say  what  the 
Lord  wants  him  to  say,  to  be  what 
the  Lord  wants  him  to  be,  to  go  and 
come  as  directed  by  proper  author- 
ity, and  do  whatever  the  Lord  re- 
quires at  his  hands.  This  is  the 
spirit  that  should  animate  and  in- 
spire every  member  of  the  Church 
of  Christ. 

One  of  the  main  purposes  for 
which  man  was  placed  upon  the 
earth  was  to  demonstrate  whether 
or  not  he  would  do  all  things  that 
the  Lord  required  of  him.  In  con- 
firmation of  this  statement  I  will 
read  you  a  passage  of  scripture,  one 
of  the  most  comprehensive  to  be 
found  in  any  of  the  sacred  writings, 
ancient  or  modern : 

"Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me, 

Abraham,   the  intelligences  that  were 

organized  before  the  world  was;  and 

among  all  these  there  were  many  of 

the  noble  and  great  ones; 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 


41 


"And  God  saw  these  souls  that  they 
were  good,  and  he  stood  in  the  midst 
of  them,  and  he  said:  These  I  will 
make  my  rulers;  for  he  stood  among 
those  that  were  spirits,  and  he  saw 
that  they  were  good;  and  he  said  unto 
me:  Abraham,  thou  art  one  of  them; 
thou  wast  chosen  before  thou  wast 
born. 

"And  there  stood  one  among  them 
that  was  like  unto  God,  and  he  said 
unto  those  who  were  with  him:  We 
will  go  down,  for  there  is  space  there, 
and  we  will  take  of  these  materials, 
and  we  will  make  an  earth  whereon 
these  may  dwell; 

"And  we  will  prove  them  herewith, 
to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things  what- 
soever the  Lord  their  God  shall  com- 
mand them; 

"And  they  who  keep  their  first  es- 
tate shall  be  added  upon;  and  they 
who  keep  not  their  first  estate  shall 
■not  have  glory  in  the  same  kingdom 
with  those  who  keep  their  first  estate; 
and  they  who  keep  their  second  estate 
shall  have  glory  added  upon  their 
heads  forever  and  ever." 

The  passage  I  have  read  is  from 
the  Book  of  Abraham,  translated  by 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  from 
papyrus  found  upon  mummies  ex- 
humed from  the  catacombs  of 
Egypt.  This  book  was  made  the 
object  of  a  rather  fierce  polemic  at- 
tack a  few  years  since,  its  authen- 
ticity being  questioned  by  a  schol- 
arly gentlemen  who  then  resided 
among  us.  His  strictures  were  re- 
plied to  by  quite  a  number  of  our 
brethren,  and  the  replies  were  pub- 
lished in  the  daily  press. 

Subsequently  I  conversed  with 
this  gentleman,  and  he  asked  me 
why  I  had  not  replied  to  him.  I 
told  him  that  I  had  been  replying 
to  him  all  over  the  country  where 
I  had  been  traveling,  but  that  my 
reply  had  not  happened  to  get  into 
the  papers.  "Oh,  indeed,"  said  he, 
"and  what  have  you  been  saying?" 
"I  have  been  saying  this,  in  sub- 
stance :    That  it  matters  not  where 


truth  is  found,  whether  ,in  the  cata- 
combs of  Egypt,  or  in  the  mounds 
of  North  America;  whether  it 
comes  through  the  lips  of  an  an- 
cient sage  or  a  modern  seer ;  that 
it  matters  not  who  translates  it,  or 
how  many  imperfections  the  trans- 
lation may  show;  that  truth  is 
truth ;  and  that  the  best  criterion  of 
judgment  when  the  authenticity  of 
any  literary  work  is  passed  upon, 
is  the  spirit  and  character  of  its 
teachings."  Said  he  :  "I  agree  with 
you;  that  is  the  best  standard  by 
which  to  judge  the  authenticity  of 
such  a  work."  "Then,"  I  affirmed, 
"the  Book  of  Abraham  needs  no 
defense.  It  speaks  for  itself.  It 
manifests  its  own  divinity ;  for  no 
one  but  God  could  have  delivered 
such  splendid  teachings  in  such  a 
majestic  and  sublime  spirit  as  this 
book  contains." 

There  is  something  in  every 
great  author  that  stamps  itself  upon 
his  writings  and  renders  them 
peculiar,  or  characteristic  of  him- 
self. There  is  a  Shakesperean  ring 
to  Shakespeare's  writings ;  there  is 
a  Byronic  ring  to  Lord  Byron's 
poetry ;  and  a  Miltonic  ring  to  the 
productions  of  Milton;  and  any 
literary  expert  can  distinguish  be- 
tween them.  Many  poets  have  de- 
scribed the  sunrise,  but  when  one  of 
them  says: 

"Night's  candles  are  burned  out,  and 

jocund  day 
Stands  tiptoe  on  the  misty  mountain 

tops," 

we  know  that  Shakespeare  has 
spoken ;  and  no  other  poet  could 
have  worded  it  in  just  that  way. 
Another  calls  upon  God  for  inspira- 
tion, 

"That  to  the  height  of  this  great  ar- 
gument 
I  may  assert  eternal  providence, 
And  justify  the  ways  of  God  to  men." 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  lines  are  Milton's,  and  the  style 
is  peculiar  to  that  mighty  son  of 
song.  It  is  the  same  with  all  great 
writers.  The  creation  testifies  of 
the  creator.  Is  it.  surprising,  then, 
that  when  God  speaks  there  should 
be  some  distinguishing  feature  to 
characterize  the  utterance  and  make 
it  different  from  any  utterance  of 
mortal  man?  There  is  a  spirit,  an 
indescribable  quality,  a  divine  pow- 
er in  the  word  of  God  that  cannot 
be  successfully  counterfeited.  Men 
have  tried  to  counterfeit  it,  but  have 
failed  ignominiously. 

In  the  early  days  of  this  Church 
certain  of  its  members  who  thought 
they  had  made  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
because  they  had  had  a  little  more 
schooling  than  he,  presumed  to  sit 
in  judgment  upon  the  revelations 
that  he  had  received  from  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  The  Lord,  by  the 
Prophet,  told  them  the  thoughts  of 
their  hearts  in  these  searching 
words : 

"Your  eyes  have  been  upon  my 
servant  Joseph  Smith,  Jun.,  and  his 
language  you  have  known,  and  his 
imperfections  you  have  known;  and 
you  have  sought  in  your  hearts  knowl- 
edge that  you  might  express  beyond 
his  language,  this  you  also  know; 

"Now  seek  ye  out  of  the  Book  of 
Commandments,  even  tlie  least  tha: 
is  among  them,  and  appoint  him  that 
is  the  most  wise  among  you; 

"Or,  if  there  be  any  among  you, 
that  shall  make  one  like  unto  it,  then 
ye  are  justified  in  saying  that  you  do 
not  know  that  they  are  true; 

"But  if  you  cannot  make  one  like 
unto  it,  ye  are  under  condemnation 
if  ye  do  not  bear  record  that  they  are 
true." — Doctrine  and  Covenants,  67: 
5-8. 

Well,  one  of  them,  who  thought 
himself  the  wisest,  and  who  pos- 
sessed some  learning-,  took  up  the 
challenge  and  actually  attempted  to 
frame   a   revelation;   but   it  was   a 


flat  failure.  He  could  utter,  of 
course,  certain  words,  and  roll  out 
a  mass  of  rhetoric ;  but  the  divine 
spirit  was  lacking,  and  he  had  to 
acknowledge  himself  beaten. 

It  is  not  so  easy  to  put  the  spirit 
of  life  into  things.  Man  can  make 
the  body,  but  God  alone  can  create 
the  spirit.  You  have  heard,  have 
you  not,  of  the  scientist  who  took 
a  grain  of  wheat  and  endeavored  to 
make  one  just  like  it?  First  he 
separated  the  grain  of  wheat  into 
its  component  parts,  and  found  that 
it  contained  so  much  lime,  so  much 
silica,  so  much  of  this  element  and 
that;  and  then  he  took  other  parts 
corresponding  thereto,  brought 
them  together  by  means  of  his 
chemical  skill,  and  produced  a  grain 
of  wheat  so  exactly  similar  to  the 
other  that  the  natural  eye  could  not 
detect  any  difference  between  them. 
But  there  was  a  difference,  a  vast 
difference,  and  it  was  demonstrated 
when  he  planted  the  two  grains. 
The  one  that  God  made  sprang  up, 
and  the  one  that  man  made  stayed 
down.  Why?  Because  the  man- 
made  grain  of  wheat  had  no  spirit 
— only  a  body,  and  the  body  with- 
out the  spirit  is  dead.  Man  cannot 
breathe  into  the  body  of  things  the 
breath  of  life ;  that  is  a  function 
and  prerogative  of  Deity.  It  is  not 
so  easy  to  frame  revelations  from 
God.  A  vain  boaster  making  ridi- 
cule of  the  proverbs  of  Solomon, 
said :  "Anybody  can  make 
proverbs."  His  friend  answered, 
"Try  a  few,"  and  the  conversation 
ended. 

Back  now  to  the  subject  of  will- 
ingness, referred  to  in  the  Book  of 
Abraham.  I  repeat  that  willingness 
to  serve  God  is  manifestly  the  first 
and  prime  requisite  of  a  Latter-day 
Saint. 

Some  wit  has  declared  that  the 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 


43 


automobile  is  fast  resolving  the  hu- 
man race  into  two  great  classes — 
"the  quick  and  the  dead"  (Laugh- 
ter). But  long  before  the  automo- 
bile was  thought  of  there  was  an 
influence  at  work  dividing  the  sheep 
from  the  goats,  separating  human- 
ity into  two  grand  divisions — those 
willing  to  do  right,  and  those  de- 
termined to  do  wrong.  Even  in  the 
Church  of  God  this  spirit  is  mani- 
fest. The  gospel  makes  us  will- 
ing to  do  anything  that  the  Lord 
requires;  and  that  spirit  can  be 
trusted.  When  we  are  dominated 
by  the  opposite  influence,  it  is  a 
sure  sign  that  we  are  skating  where 
the  ice  is  thin,  and  we  had  better 
get  over  to  the  other  side  of  the 
pond.  The  spirit  of  the  gospel  is 
optimistic ;  it  trusts  in  God  and 
looks  on  the  bright  side  of  things. 
The  opposite  or  pessimistic  spirit 
drags  men  down  and  away  from 
God,  looks  on  the  dark  side,  mur- 
murs, complains,  and  is  slow  to 
yield  obedience.  There  is  a  story 
told  of  two  buckets  that  hung  in  a 
well,  on  either  end  of  a  long  chain, 
so  that  when  one  went  up  the  other 
went  down,  and  vice  versa.  They 
were  both  drawing  water  out  of 
the  well,  both  doing  precisely  the 
same  kind  of  work,  but  one  of  the 
buckets  was  an  optimist,  and  the 
other  was  a  pessimist.  The  pessim- 
istic bucket  complained  of  its  lot, 
saying  :  "It  doesn't  matter  how  full 
I  come  up,  I  always  go  back 
empty."  The  optimistic  bucket, 
with  a  bright  smile,  retorted :  "It 
doesn't  matter  how  empty  I  go 
down,  I  always  come  back  full" 
(Laughter).  Much  depends,  you 
see,  upon  the  spirit  in  which  a  thing- 
is  viewed. 

If  I  have  achieved  anything  in 
the  whole  course  of  my  life  that  is 
worthy  to  be  called  success,  it  is 


because  I  have  been  willing  to  do 
the  things  required  of  me  by  right- 
ful authority.  Not  always  have  I 
done  them  perfectly — I  admit  that 
freely;  but  God  has  been  merciful 
to  me,  and  in  spite  of  my  faults  I 
have  done  enough  to  show  him  that 
I  was  at  least  willing  to  do  what  he 
required,  and  a  certain  measure  of 
success  has  followed.  When  called 
upon  my  first  mission,  I  had  had 
little  religious  experience,  but  I 
possessed  that  first  requisite  in  a 
servant  of  God — I  was  willing  to 
go ;  and  when  I  returned  and  was 
asked  to  serve  as  a  block  teacher,  I 
was  willing  to  so  serve.  A  few 
weeks  later  I  became  the  bishop  of 
the  ward — not  because  I  wanted  to 
be,  but  because  the  Lord  wanted  me 
to  be,  and  I  was  willing  to  respond 
to  the  call  made  upon  me.  I  was  a 
ward  bishop  for  nearly  twenty- 
eight  years ;  and  the  highest  com- 
pliment I  ever  received  from  our 
beloved  President  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
and  about  the  only  one,  as  a  bishop, 
was  when  he  told  the  people  of  my 
ward  that  there  must  be  something 
to  a  man  when  they  could  "stomach 
him"  for  twenty-eight  years  as 
their  bishop  (Laughter).  Well, 
they  "stomached"  me  because  they 
had  to ;  for  I  was  there  to  stay 
until  wanted  elsewhere.  I  never 
thought  I  had  the  right  to  resign 
my  bishopric  any  more  than  I  had 
the  right  to  release  myself  from  my 
mission.  My  mother  wrote  to  me 
saying:  "Why  don't  you  come 
home?  All  the  missionaries  have 
returned  that  went  when  you  did, 
all  but  yourself.  Why  don't  you 
come?"  I  answered:  "Because  I 
have  not  been  released,  and  I  will 
stay  till  I  am  released,  if  it  be  ten 
years  or  more.  I  will  never  ask 
for  a  release,  will  never  return  till 
the    servants    of     God  say,  'It  is 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


enough ;  come  home.' "  And  I 
meant  it. 

I  have  much  enjoyed  my  labors 
as  an  apostle.  I  did  not  seek  this 
exalted  station,  but  was  willing  to 
accept  the  call  when  it  came ; 
and  I  stand  here  today  ready  to  do 
anything  that  the  Lord  requires  of 
me.  I  have  never  promised  to  do 
everything  that  man  wants  me  to 
do ;  but  that  is  not  the  divine  re- 
quirement. We  are  here  that  it  may 
be  seen  whether  we  will  do  all  that 
the  Lord  requires  at  our  hands.  I 
am  ready  to  do  that,  and  my  breth- 
ren are  also  ready. 

There  is  a  great  deal  of  talk  in- 
dulged in  about  the  duties  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve.  Some  peo- 
ple think  that  we  should  be  always 
"on  the  go."  Well,  we  are  pretty 
much  "on  the  go,"  all  the  time.  As 
President  Lyman  was  wont  to  re- 
mark, in  his  humorous  way,  "We 
are  somewhere  every  Sunday."  But 
the  trouble  is  that  we  don't  go  far 
enough  away  to  suit  some  people. 
It  reminds  me  of  that  story  told 
by  Mark  Twain  about  the  governor 
of  Nevada  in  early  clays.  The  gov- 
ernor's relatives  flocked  to  him  in 
large  numbers,  and  as  he  had  noth- 
ing for  them  to  do  and  wanted  to 
be  rid  of  them,  he  set  them  to  work 
surveying  a  railroad  "to  a  certain 
point  east."  They  went  out  survey- 
ing, and  the  first  night  came  back  to 
the  point  from  which  they  started. 
They  did  likewise  the  second  night, 
and  the  third.  But  after  that  they 
were  too  far  away  to  return  at 
night,  and  becoming  anxious  sent 
back  word,  "How  far  do  you  want 
this  railroad  to  go  ?"  The  governor 
replied:  "To  the  Atlantic  ocean, 
blast  you,  and  then  bridge  it  and 
goon"  (Laughter).  That  message 
brought  the  whole  gang  back  again. 

Even  people  outside  the  Church 


are  sometimes  worried  lest  our 
apostles  should  not  be  going  some- 
where all  the  time.  Two  years  ago 
last  summer  I  found  myself  in  Kirt- 
land,  Ohio,  once  the  headquarters 
of  the  Church,  the  birthplace  of  my 
father,  and  the  place  where  my 
grandparents  received  the  gospel. 
Ohio  was  also  one  of  the  states 
where  I  labored  during  my  first 
mission.  The  Kirtland  temple  is  in 
the  possession  of  what  is  known  as 
the  Reorganized  Church,  and  a 
young  man  from  West  Virginia 
had  charge  of  the  building  when 
I  was  last  there.  He  was  a  recent 
convert  to  their  faith,  a  part  of 
which  is  that  "the  Utah  Church," 
as  they  call  us,  is  in  an  apostate 
condition.  He  was  full  of  informa- 
tion and  an  overweening  desire  to 
impart  it.  Not  knowing  who  I  was 
or  where  I  was  from,  he  began 
upon  me,  saying:  "One  of  the  dis- 
tinctive features  between  our 
church  and  the  Utah  Church  is  that 
our  apostles  are  always  out  in  the 
field,  while  their  apostles  are  always 
at  home."  I  knew  I  had  him 
(Laughter).  I  answered  :  "Is  that 
so?  Why,  I  am  just  from  Utah, 
and  I  happen  to  know  that  Hyrum 
M.  Smith,  one  of  the  apostles  of 
the  Utah  Church,  as  you  call  it,  is 
now  at  Liverpool,  presiding  over 
the  European  mission ;  and  I  hap- 
pen to  know  that  Reed  Smoot,  an- 
other of  their  apostles,  is  at  Wash- 
ington, D.  C,  a  member  of  the 
United  States  Senate ;  and  I  happen 
to  know  that  still  another,  namely, 
your  humble  servant,  is  here  talking 
to  you  in  the  state  of  Ohio."  "Oh," 
said  he,  and  changed  the  subject 
(Laughter). 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  bear  my 
testimony  that  the  members  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  are  just  as 
ready  today  as  they  ever  were  to  go 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 


45 


where  they  are  sent.  But  they  .do 
not  travel  to  and  fro  on  their  own 
account,  independently  of  the  au- 
thority above  them ;  and  they  do 
not  take  their  instructions  from 
every  Tom,  Dick  and  Harry  who 
thinks  he  understands  their  duties 
better  than  they  do  themselves. 
They  are  ready  to  go  and  come 
under  the  direction  of  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  Church — God's 
servants,  the  only  ones  .empowered 
to  direct  their  labors.  In  conclu- 
sion let  me  read  to  you  a  little  par- 
aphrase of  my  own  upon  the  beau- 
tiful verse  that  I  quoted  at  the  be- 
ginning. This  expresses  my  spirit, 
my  attitude,  and  the  spirit  and  atti- 
tude of  my  brethren : 

"I'll    go   where   you   want   me   to   go, 
dear  Lord, 
I'll  go  whenever  you  say; 
But    till    I    am    sent,    I'm   .not    going 
to   go, 
I'll    stay   where     you    want   me    to 
stay." 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

I  hope  you  will  pardon  me  for 
expressing  a  single  thought.  It  is 
well  understood  that  there  are  in 
the  world  two  great  principles  or 
powers,  and  these  two  are  opposed 
to  each  other.  One  is  the  principle 
or  power  of  truth ;  the  other  is  that 
of  error  and  ignorance,  which  is 
evil.  That  is,  God's  truth  and  its 
adversary.  It  is  too  true  often  that 
the  adversary  of  truth  has  been 
compelled  to  adopt  or  mix  a  little 
of  God's  truth  with  his  errors  and 
heresies,  in  order  to  better  prevail 
over  the  whole  truth,  and  more  ef- 
fectively to  defeat  it.  These  ap- 
parent improvements  on  the  part 
of  error  are  no  great  evidences  of 
concurrence  in  the  purposes  of 
God  ;  and  we  should  not  forget  it ! 


The  choir  and  congregation 
sang :  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for 
a  prophet." 

Elder  William  J.  Kuhre,  pres- 
ident of  the  Jordan  stake  of  Zion, 
offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2 
p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

The  conference  was  called  to 
order  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.  by  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith  who  presided. 

The  Juab  stake  choir,  under  di- 
rection of  Carl  Nelson,  sang:  "Let 
the  mountains  shout  for  joy." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered 
by  Elder  Richard  W.  Young,  pres- 
ident of  the  Ensign  stake  of  Zion. 

The  Juab  stake  choir  sang  the 
anthem,  "Praise  the  Lord." 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

If  I  were  to  express  my  present 
wish  and  feeling,  I  would  say,  the 
Lord  bless  the  Juab  stake  choir. 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY. 

God  is  Love — He  is  not  causing  the 
misery  of  the  war-torn  world;  dis- 
obedience to  his  laws  lies  at  the 
root  of  the  misery — It  is  God's  de- 
sire to  bring  to  pass  the  immortal- 
ity and  eternal  life  of  man — Man, 
with  his  free  agency,  must  choose 
his  own  course,  and  the  results  of 
his  follies  cannot  be  charged  to  our 
loving  Father — He  would  have  men 
and  nations  choose  the  right,  and 
not  the  wrong  path.  Indulgence  in 
strong  drink  is  destructive  of  man- 
hood— When  the  nations  wanted  ef- 
ficiency they  were  compelled  to 
abandon  drink  and  thus  to  obey  a 
commandVnent  of  God — ^^Compari- 
son of  loss  of  life  through  war  and 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


intemperance — The  hand  of  God  in 
the  rise  and  fall  of  nations,  the 
whole  pointing  to  the  preaching  of 
the  peaceful  gospel  of  Christ  to  all 
the  world — Our  obligations  to  bear 
the  message  of  the  Love  of  God  to 
all  mankind. 

As  I  came  to  conference  this  af- 
ternoon, one  of  the  presidents  of 
stakes  accosted  me,  saying :  "Well, 
are  your  nerves  shattered  because 
of  the  war?"  I  answered,  "No,  not 
because  of  the  war,  but  they  are 
pretty  well  unstrung  at  the  thoughts 
of  having  to  speak  this  afternoon," 
and  that  is  a  fact. 

I  seldom,  if  ever,  approach  this 
duty  of  standing  before  an  audience 
without  a  feeling  of  timidity;  and  I 
sincerely  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  will  remove  that  feeling  from 
me  now  as  it  has  on  other  occa- 
sions. I  desire  to  keep  in  harmony 
with  his  Spirit,  and  with  the  spirit 
of  this  most  excellent  conference. 
I  testify  that  we  have  received  the 
word  of  the  Lord,  and  I  am  sure 
that  all  of  those  who  have  been  in 
attendance  at  these  meetings  will 
bear  the  same  testimony.  I  rejoice 
in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I 
rejoice  in  the  faith  and  assurance  I 
have  that  God  is  guiding  this  peo- 
ple, and  that  he  will  over-rule  the 
destinies  of  nations  so  that  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ  may  be  preached 
in  all  the  world  as  a  witness  before 
the  end  shall  come. 

John,  the  beloved  disciple,  once 
wrote,  as  we  find  in  first  John, 
4th  chapter  and  16th  verse,  "He 
that  loveth  not  knoweth  not  God, 
for  Go'd  is  love,"  and,  in  harmony 
with  this  truth,  the  poet  sings: 

'Earth  with  her  ten  thousand  flowers. 
Air  with  all  its  beams  and  showers, 
Heavens  infinite  expanse, 
Sea's  resplendent  countenance, 
A.11  around  and  all  above, 
Bear  this  record,  God  is  love." 


I  am  not  one  of  those  who  see  in 
this  world  catastrophe  the  hand  of 
God  as  its  cause.  I  do  not  believe 
that  God  has  caused  the  misery,  the 
famine,  the  pestilence,  and  the  death 
that  are  now  sweeping  the  war-torn 
countries  of  Europe.  I  do  believe 
that  the  conditions  of  the  world  to- 
day are  a  direct  result— an  inevit- 
able result,  of  disobedience  to  God's 
laws.  I  was  surprised  to  read  re- 
cently, in  a  current  magazine,  the 
expression  that  came  from  a  school 
of  free  thinkers  in  London.  Prom- 
inent men  in  that  city  were  discuss- 
ing the  problem  as  to  the  effect  that 
this  world-war  would  have  upon 
Christianity.  One  of  those  men  re- 
corded his  views  as  follows  : 

"Never  have  the  souls  of  men 
been  more  sorely  tried  than  at  pres- 
ent. Across  Europe  rolls  the  roar 
of  guns.  Peaceful  villages  burst 
into  flames.  Ships  of  death  sail  the 
midnight  sky  and  rain  murder  on 
the  innocent.  At  every  moment 
brave  men  are  slain.  Under  the 
weight  of  overwhelming  calamity 
the  world  staggers  and  groans. 
Was  this  all  designed  before  the 
foundations  of  the  earth  were  laid?" 
Then  he  asks : 

"How  then  can  one  worship  the 
designer?  Is  it  a  by-product,  and 
undesigned  and  unexpected  result 
of  creative  power?  How  then  can 
omnipotence  exist?  Does  not  the 
state  of  Europe  make  the  belief  in 
God  a  superstition?  In  the  shadow 
of  the  immense  disaster  the  figure 
of  the  living  Father  recedes  into 
dim  and  formless  outlines.  Trust 
in  his  care  grows  faint  and  feeble. 
Human  tears  blur  the  vision  of 
eternal  bliss  as  human  love  has 
quenched  the  fires  of  hell." 

Such  men,  certainly,  have  lost 
the  vision  of  the  Creator  as  be- 
ing a  God  of  love.     In  answer  to 


ELDER   DAVID    0.   McKAY. 


47 


this  gentleman,  I  cannot  but  repeat 
the  words  of  the  Redeemer :  "Ye 
do  err,  not  understanding  the  scrip- 
tures." I  think,  too,  the  words  of 
Shakespeare  are  appropriate  in 
which  he  said : 

"This  is  the  excellent  foppery  of 
the  world,  that  when  we  are  sick  in 
fortune, — often  the  surfeit  of  our 
own  behavior, — we  make  guilty  of 
our  disasters  the  sun,  the  moon,  and 
the  stars ;  as  if  we  were  villians  by 
necessity;  fools  by  heavenly  com- 
pulsion ;  *  *  *  and  all  that  we 
are  evil  in,  by  a  divine  thrusting 
on." 

I  believe  that  God  is  love,  that 
he  is  our  Father  and  desires  the 
happiness  and  eternal  life  of  his 
children.  Indeed,  this  is  his  glory, 
"to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man."  He  has 
placed  man  upon  earth  and,  as  he 
revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  as 
recorded,  in  the  19th  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  "he  gave 
to  man  that  he  might  be  an  agent 
unto  himself."  Men  may  choose 
the  right  or  they  may  choose  the 
wrong ;  they  may  walk  in  darkness 
or  they  may  walk  in  the  light ;  and, 
mind  you,  God  has  not  left  his  chil- 
dren without  the  light.  He  has 
given  them  in  the  various  dispensa- 
tions of  the  world  the  light  of  the 
gospel  wherein  they  could  walk  and 
not  stumble,  wherein  they  could  find 
that  peace  and  happiness  which  he 
desires,  as  a  loving  Father,  his  chil- 
dren should  enjoy,  but  the  Lord 
does  not  take  from  them  their  free 
agency.  The  Prophet  Lehi,  in 
speaking  to  his  son  Jacob,  bears 
testimony  to  that  truth  in  unmis- 
takable terms.  He  ^ays :  "Where- 
fore, the  Lord  God  gave  unto  man 
that  he  should  act  for  himself. 
Wherefore,  man  could  not  act  for 
himself  save  it  should  be  that  he  was 


enticed  by  the  one  or  the  other." 
And  then, in  the  27th  verse  :  "Where- 
fore, men  are  free  according  to  the 
flesh,  and  all  things  are  given  them 
which  are  expedient  unto  man,  and 
they  are  free  to  choose  liberty  and 
eternal  life  through  the  great  medi- 
ation of  all  men,  or  to  choose 
iniquity,  and  death  according  to 
the  captivity  and  power  of  the  devil, 
for  he  seeketh  that  all  men  might 
be  miserable  like  unto  himself." 

God  is  watching  over  the  destinv 
of  nations.  Someone  has  said, 
"there  is  a  divinity  that  shapes  our 
ends,  rough-hew  them  as  we  may." 
We  may  "rough-hew  our  ends," 
we  choose  our  course,  but  God  will 
overrule  our  acts  and  the  acts  of  na- 
tions for  the  consummation  of  his 
divine  purposes.  If  what  that  free 
thinker  in  London  says  were  true, 
that  God  designed  all  this  misery  to 
come  upon  the  nations,  we  should 
read  the  maxim,  just  quoted  in  this 
way:  "There  is  a  divinity  that 
shapes  our  ends  rough — hew  them 
as  we  may." 

God  is  standing  in  the  shadow  of 
eternity,  it  seems  to  me,  deploring 
now  the  inevitable  results  of  the 
follies,  the  transgressions  and  the 
sins  of  his  wayward  children,  but 
we  cannot  blame  him  for  these  any 
more  than  we  can  blame  a  father 
who  might  say  to  his  son,  "There 
are  two  roads,  my  son,  one  leading 
to  the  right,  one  leading  to  the 
left.  If  you  take  the  one  to  the 
right  it  will  lead  you  to  success  and 
to  happiness.  If  you  take  the  one 
to  the  left  it  will  bring  upon  you 
misery  and  unhappiness  and  per- 
haps death,  but  you  choose  which 
you  will.  You  must  choose ;  I  will 
not  force  either  upon  you."  The 
young  man  starts  out  and,  seeing 
the  allurements  and  the  attractive 
ness  of  the  road  to  the  left,  and 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


thinking  it  a  short  cut  to  his  happi- 
ness, he  concludes  to  take  it.  The 
father  knows  what  will  become  of 
him,  he  knows  that  not  far  from 
that  flowery  path  there  is  a  mire 
hole  into  which  his  boy  will  fall,  he 
knows  that  after  he  struggles  out 
of  that  mire  hole  he  will  come  to  a 
slough  into  which  he  will  flounder. 
He  sees  others  who  have  chosen 
that  path  in  that  same  slough,  and 
he  knows  that  in  their  struggle  to 
get  on  dry  land  there  will  be  fight- 
ing. He  could  see  it  long  before 
the  boy  reached  that  condition,  and 
he  could,  therefore,  foretell  it.  The 
father  loves  the  boy  just  the  same, 
and  would  still  continue  to  warn 
him,  and  plead  for  him  to  return  to 
the  right  path.  God,  too,  has  shown 
the  world,  through  his  prophets  in 
ages  gone  by,  that  many  of  his  peo- 
ple, individuals,  as  well  as  nations, 
would  choose  the  path  that  leads  to 
misery  and  to  death,  and  he  fore- 
told it,  but  the  responsibility  is 
upon  those  who  would  not  heed 
God's  message,  not  upon  God.  But 
in  his  infinite  wisdom,  he  will  over- 
rule these  transgressions  for  the 
good  of  all  his  sons  and  daughters. 
His  love  for  them  is  already  mani- 
fest, for  great  as  is  the  destruction 
that  is  now  sweeping  the  world, 
greater  will  be  the  good  that  will 
come  out  of  it  through  God's  love 
for  his  chlidren.  When,  for  exam- 
ple, these  nations,  prompted  by  bit- 
terness, some  of  them,  selfishness, 
enmity,  fear  or  other  feelings  con- 
trary to  the  spirit  of  the  gospel  and 
the  spirit  of  love,  began  to  grapple 
each  other's  throats,  they  could  see 
that  to  succeed  they  needed  the 
highest  efficiency  of  the  manhood  of 
the  country,  so  what  did  they  do  ? 
Russia  forbade  her  people  to  drink 
vodka,  France  prohibited  the  use 
of    absinthe.      England,    Italy    and 


other  nations  restricted  their  people 
in  the  use  of  intoxicants,  thus  testi- 
fying to  the  world  that  indulgence 
in  strong  drink  is  destructive  of  the 
manhood  of  a  nation.  It  matters 
not,  as  far  as  the  lesson  is  con- 
cerned, whether  after  the  war  those 
nations  again  throw  down  the  bars, 
the  testimony  to  the  world  is  al- 
ready given.  When  they  needed 
young  manhood  at  its  highest  effi- 
ciency they  had  to  accept  one  of  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord  as  he 
revealed  it.  They  do  not  call  it  that, 
but  you  know  what  it  is,  and  the 
world  will  never  forget  after  this, 
that  we  need  efficiency  of  manhood 
in  times  of  peace  just  as  much  as  we 
need  it  in  times  of  war.  It  is  my 
opinion,  however,  that  they  will 
never  go  back  to  it,  never.  Thus, 
in  this  one  great  thing  of  temper- 
ance, a  great  blessing  will  come  to 
the  world.  Suppose,  as  it  is  esti- 
mated, that  perhaps  an  average  of 
fifteen  hundred  men  die  on  the  bat- 
tle field  every  day,  and  will  con- 
tinue to  die  at  that  rate  until  the 
war  is  over.  Half  a  million  men  a 
year,  not  counting  those  who  are 
missing  and  who  are  wounded — it 
is  a  terrible  loss.  But  do  you  know 
that  in  America  alone  the  violation 
of  God's  law  by  indulgence  in 
strong  drink  is  rushing  to  a  prema- 
ture death  over  two  thousand  every 
day?  It  is  estimated  that  every 
year  in  America  alone  more  men 
are  sent  to  a  premature  death  by 
alcohol  than  have  been  killed  on 
the  fields  of  battle  for  the  last  two 
thousand  years.  At  a  convention 
of  insurance  men  held  recently,  men 
said  that  through  the  prohibition  of 
vodka  in  Russia  alone,  that  nation 
is  saving  fifty  thousand  men  an- 
nually. Can  anyone,  in  view  of 
that,  stand  aside  and  not  see  the 
hand  of  God  working? 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY. 


49 


Another  thing.  The  other  day, 
almost  within  twenty-four  hours, 
the  shackles  of  dynasty  were  torn 
from  the  limbs  of  Russia,  and  mil- 
lions of  people  set  free.  One  hun- 
dred thousand  prisoners  are  now 
either  at  home,  or  are  marching 
over  the  snows  of  Siberia  back  to 
their  homes  and  freedom ;  and  it 
looks  as  if  Russia  will  have  a  gov- 
ernment "by  the  people,  of  the  peo- 
ple, and  for  the  people."  Many 
years  ago  the  Lord  said  to  the 
prophet,  speaking  of  America : 
"No  king  shall  ever  rule  this  land." 
It  was  the  land  of  the  free ;  and  it 
has  become  an  ensign  to  the  whole 
world.  In  this  land  was  first  re- 
vealed in  this  dispensation,  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ.  As  thrones 
topple  and  monarchies  crumble, 
you  will  see  that  the  people  who 
are  given  their  free  agency  will 
begin  to  appreciate  the  principles 
of  self-government,  preparatory  to 
their  accepting  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  which  is  the  perfect  law  of 
liberty.  I  can  see  in  all  this  a  step 
toward  a  truer  brotherhood — a 
preparation  for  the  millennium. 
It  may  yet  be  far  in  the  future,  no 
one  knows,  but  I  can  see  Divine  in- 
fluence over-ruling  the  destiny  of 
nations,  at  least  preparatory  to  the 
preaching  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

One  of  our  poets  sees  the  same 
thing,  and  writes : 

"Oh,  Lord,  God  of  Hosts,  whose  hand 
Dominion  holds  on  sea  and  land, 
In  peace  and  war  thy  will  we  see, 
Shaping  the  cause  of  liberty. 
Nations  may  rise  and  nations  fall, 
Thy  changeless  purpose  shapes  them 
all." 

In  conclusion,  fellow  workers, 
men  holding  the  priesthood  of  God, 
what    is    the    responsibility    resting 


upon  us  as  God's  servants?  Oh, 
how  happy  we  should  be  that  we 
are  living  in  this  land,  the  best  in 
all  the  world, — this  nation,  the  most 
glorious,  guided  by  the  constitution, 
inspired  by  God.  Thankful?  Why. 
that  fact  alone  ought  to  make  ev- 
ery American  bow  down  and  thank 
his  God  for  the  blessing  of  liberty 
that  he  enjoys.  In  addition  to  that, 
however,  you  and  I  have  the  great- 
est blessing  that  can  come  to  man — 
membership  in  the  Church  of  Christ 
and  a  testimony  that  God  lives  and 
that  he  loves  his  children.  If  we 
do  appreciate  it,  I  think  we  cannot 
shun  the  responsibility  or  fail  to 
sense  the  responsibility  that  rests 
upon  us  to  bear  that  same  message 
to  the  suffering  people  in  the  world. 
People  in  distress  are  going  to  look 
for  liberty,  they  are  going  to  look 
for  succor.  Not  all  men  and  wom- 
en in  those  war-torn  countries  are 
going  to  say  that  God  is  not  om- 
nipotent. Only  a  few  of  the  skep- 
tics who  do  not  know  God  and  who 
are  struggling  in  blindness  can 
draw  that  conclusion.  The  honest 
millions  are  going  to  look  for  re- 
lief ;  and  you,  my  fellow  workers, 
must  give  that  message  which  will 
lead  them  to  peace,  happiness  and 
salvation.  Only  a  few  thousand 
may  have  the  privilege  of  bearing 
that  testimony  abroad,  but  all  the 
membership  of  the  Church  will  have 
the  opportunity  to  live  in  obedience 
to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
show  that  they  are  using  their  free- 
dom, and  their  free  agency  in  tread- 
ing the  path  that  leads  to  life  eter- 
nal. We  can  do  this  by  the  observ- 
ance of  a  thousand  little  things,  es- 
pecially by  keeping  our  lives  pure 
and  unspotted  from  the  sins  of  the 
world.  Refrain  from  speaking  ill 
of  our  neighbors,  of  creating  con- 
tention,  and   of   stirring  up   strife. 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  responsibility  and  opportunity 
comes  to  us  to  be  an  example  to  all 
the  world.  God  help  us  so  to  be, 
that  in  thus  conducting  ourselves 
the  Church  may  be  an  ensign  to 
the  nations,  such  as  will  indeed  be 
a  guide  to  them  as  they  try  to  get 
back  into  the  presence  of  their  God, 
whom  they  will  recognize,  some 
day,  as  a  God  of  love  and  not  one 
of  destruction  and  hate.  In  the 
words  of  the  poet,  let  us  pray: 

"For  those  who  minister  and  heal 
And    spend    themselves,    their     skill, 

their  zeal, 
Renew   their   hearts   with   Christ-like 

faith, 
And    guard   them    from    disease    and 

death; 
And  in  thine   own   good   time,   Lord, 

send 
Thy   peace    on    earth    'til    time    shall 
end." 

May  the  Lord  grant  this  to  his 
people,  with  his  Holy  Spirit  to  guide 
them,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.     Amen. 

Members  of  the  Juab  stake  choir 
sang  a  trio :     "To  thee,  O  Father." 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 

The  definite  and  unchangeable  pur- 
poses of  God  to  be  accomplished — 
Priestcraft  and  the  divine  right  of 
kings  to  be  stricken  down  and  the 
civil  and  religious  liberty  of  all  men 
to  be  recognized — The  uniting  of 
the  sturdy  and  intelligent  peasantry 
of  many  nations,  in  America,  the 
land  of  destiny,  a  beginning  to  help 
bring  about  this  purpose — The  es- 
tablishment of  the  true  and  world- 
wide Church  of  Christ  in  America, 
having  the  greatest  moral  code  .ever 
known,  also  a  contributory  means  to 
this  end — America  has  thus  a  Gov- 
ernment and  a  Church  founded  upon 
principles  of  eternal  truth — These 
Civil  and  Church  truths  applied  to 
the  great  issue  before  the  world  to- 


day— It  remains  for  us  to  live  and, 
if  need  be,  to  die,  for  them — These 
civil  and  religious  liberties,  shall  not 
be  destroyed,  but  shall  prevail  from 
the  rivers  to  the  ends  of  the  earth. 

"Come  unto  me,  all  ye  that  labor, 
and  are  heavy  laden  and  I  will  give 
you  rest." 

Since  this  conference  commenced, 
as  I  have  listened  to  the  remarks 
made,  I  have  been  thinking  of  these 
words  of  the  Redeemer,  and  ap- 
plying them  to  the  past,  present  and 
future,  as  they  are  related  to  the 
country  in  which  we  live,  the  gov- 
ernment to  which  we  profess  alle- 
giance and  service,  and  the  Church 
to  which  the  great  majority  of  us 
who  are  present,  belong  as  mem- 
bers. 

The  foundation  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
as  has  been  repeatedly  stated  at  this 
conference,  is  laid  in  God  the 
Father,  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and 
the  Holy  Ghost.  The  Church  rec- 
ognizes God  as  the  creator  of  the 
universe,  and  that  he  dominates, 
governs  and  controls  the  destiny 
of  all  nations.  It  is  not  a  doctrine 
of  the  Church,  as  has  been  stated 
by  Brother  McKay,  that  all  of  the 
events  which  have  signalized  the 
history  of  the  world,  the  rise  and 
fall  of  nations,  the  war,  the  blood- 
shed and  devastation  which  have 
occurred,  have  been  by  God's  de- 
cree, or  with  his  approval,  but 
rather  that  man,  because  of 
transgression  and  disobedience  has 
brought  these  great  judgments  upon 
his  own  head.  We  do  believe,  how- 
ever, that  God  has  had,  and  now  has 
foreknowledge  of  all  that  has  oc- 
curred among  the  nations  of  the 
world  from  the  beginning,  that 
which  is  now  occurring,  and  which 
will  occur  in  the  future.  That  he 
has  certain  definite  and  unchange- 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  WINS. 


51 


able  purposes  to  be  accomplished 
among  his  children,  which  the 
power  of  neither  men  nor  devils 
can  stay,  and  that,  from  time  to 
time,  he  has  revealed  to  his  servants 
the  prophets,  and  does  now  reveal 
to  them,  his  purposes  as  they  apply 
to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth. 

At  the  close  of  the  fifteenth  cen- 
tury the  then  known  world  was 
growing  old,  as  man  counts  time. 
Chaldea,  Egypt,  Babylonia,  Greece 
and  Rome,  each  with  a  civilization 
which  it  had  been  thought  would 
always  endure,  had  flourished  and 
passed  into  history,  leaving  only 
magnificent  ruins  to  testify  of  their 
greatness.  The  great  kingdom  of 
Israel,  the  chosen  people  of  the 
Lord,  had  been  scattered  to  the 
four  winds  of  heaven.  A  multitude 
of  nations  had  come  out  from  these 
kingdoms,  each  burdened  with  the 
memories,  traditions  and  errors  of 
the  past,  in  both  civil  and  religious 
life. 

The  doctrine  of  the  divine  right 
of  kings  had  been  securely  estab- 
lished ;  the  doctrine  that  some  men 
were  born  to  serve,  and  others  to 
receive  service,  was  accepted  with- 
out protest,  the  gospel  of  the  Re- 
deemer had  been  so  changed  that  it 
was  not  recognizable.  The  time 
had  come  for  the  emancipation  of 
the  human  family,  when  they  were 
to  be  liberated  from  the  thraldom  of 
ages,  in  both  civil  and  religious  life. 

This  could  only  be  accomplished 
in  a  new  world,  under  primitive 
conditions, 'in  a  world  and  among 
a  people  whose  vision  was  not  ob- 
scured by  the  moss  and  rust  of  ages, 
and  so  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
wrought  upon  a  man  among  the  na- 
tions of  the  Gentiles,  and  he  de- 
clared that,  if  permitted,  he  could 
sail  out  upon  the  great  unknown 
ocean  and  find  a  new  world.     Wise 


men  shook  their  heads  in  doubt,  the 
ignorant  tapped  their  foreheads,  as 
he  passed  and  said,  "pobre-cito,  esta 
loco,"  "poor  fellow,  he  is  crazy,"  he 
thinks  that  by  sailing  away  to  the 
west  he  can  circumnavigate  the 
globe,  and  return  home  without 
turning  round  to  come  back;  but 
the  man  persisted,  and  when  men 
refused  to  listen,  under  the  patron- 
age of  a  woman,  he  sailed  away 
from  Spain,  and  landed  on  the 
shores  of  the  new  world. 

The  beginning  of  the  end,  so  far 
as  old  conditions  were  concerned, 
had  dawned.  Kingcraft  and  priest- 
craft were  to  be  stricken  down,  the 
liberty  of  all  men  recognized  that 
Christ's  kingdom  was  to  be  estab- 
l:shed  among  men,  and  his  will  done 
upon  earth  as  it  is  done  in  heaven. 

For  the  accomplishment  of  this 
great  purpose  there  came  to  the  new 
world,  not  people  of  a  single  race, 
speaking  one  language,  to  establish 
here  the  ideals  and  race  prejudices 
of  their  old  homes,  but  a  community 
of  men  adapted,  because  of  their 
cosmopolitan  character,  to  evolve 
the  great  nation  which  this  was  de- 
signed of  the  Lord  to  be. 

To  the  devotion  and  faith  of  the 
Puritan  of  New  England  came  the 
integrity  and  sturdy  patriotism  of 
the  Dutch  from  New  York,  the 
dash  and  gallantry  of  the  Cavalier 
from  Virginia,  and  the  light-hearted 
energy  of  the  French  from  Louis- 
iana, a  combination  of  tempera- 
ments never  before  brought  togeth- 
er, and  calculated  to  produce  the 
great  composite  American  of  today. 

It  was  under  such  circumstances, 
by  such  men,  that  the  foundation  of 
our  government  was  laid.  For  the 
first  time,  at  least  in  modern  times, 
the  declaration  was  made  to  the 
world  that  all  men  were  created 
with   cerain   inherent   rights.       All 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


men.  Not  all  Englishmen,  nor 
Dutchmen,  nor  Frenchmen,  but  men 
of  all  nations.  That  they  were  en- 
titled to  certain  rights  and  privileges 
which  could  not  in  justice  he  taken 
from  them :  the  right  to  pursue 
the  avocations  of  life,  to  possess 
property  and  pursue  happiness, 
without  molestation,  so  long  as  they 
did  not  infringe  upon  the  rights  of 
others.  They  made  another  start- 
ling declaration,  they  had  the  ef- 
frontery to  say  that  all  governments 
derive  their  just  powers  from  the 
consent  of  the  governed.  The  day 
that  declaration  was  made,  the 
death  knell  of  every  crowned  tyrant 
in  the  world  was  sounded. 

They  did  another  thing,  this 
heterogeneous  body  of  men,  whom 
the  old  world  called  a  mob;  they 
said  to  the  oppressed  of  all  nations, 
come  unto  us,  all  you  who  labor  and 
are  heavey  laden  and  we  will  give 
you  rest.  And  they  came.  Not 
kings  and  princes,  not  many  dukes 
and  counts  and  barons,  but  the  stur- 
dy and  intelligent  peasantry  of  the 
world  came,  and  here  under  the 
Stars  and  Stripes  they  have  found 
rest,  until  today  one  city  of  our 
land  has  more  Jews  than  can  be 
found  in  all  Palestine,  the  strength 
and  intelligence  of  Ireland  is  here, 
liberty  loving  men  from  all  nations 
have  come  to  these  United  States, 
and  here  they  have  found  rest.  They 
love  this  country  because  it  is  theirs, 
because  it  belongs  to  no  particular 
race  or  people,  because  it  is  not  a 
country  of  men  of  American  birth, 
not  a  country  of  Englishmen,  nor 
Dutchmen,  nor  Frenchmen,  nor 
Germans,  but  a  country  of  Amer- 
icans, where  every  man  who  is  loyal 
to  its  institutions,  stands  equal  with 
every  other  man  before  the  law. 

The  time  had  come  for  the  ac- 
complishment of  another  great  pur- 


pose, indispensable  to  the  welfare 
of  mankind,  and  as  clearly  foreor- 
dained of  God,  and  designed  in  his 
economy  for  the  redemption  of  the 
world,  as  any  event  which  has  oc- 
curred in  its  history.  The  errors  and 
injustice  of  civil  government,  which 
had  crept  into  the  systems  of  the 
old  world,  were  not  more  marked 
than  those  which  had  come  into 
the:r  religious  life.  Notwithstand- 
ing the  fact  that  the  Lord  had 
manifested  himself  to  the  world 
through  his  only  begotten  Son,  and 
that  the  Redeemer  had  made  the 
doctrines  of  his  gospel  so  plain  and 
simple  that  none  need  mistake  them, 
had  organized  his  Church  with  its 
powers  and  duty  clearly  defined, 
and  that  the  people  of  the  world 
had  his  written  word  before  them, 
men  had  drifted  away  from  the 
truth  into  a  religious  system  as  de- 
structive of  real  faith,  and  as  pow- 
erless to  satisfy  the  religions  aspira- 
tions of  men,  as  were  their  systems 
of  civil  government  to  satisfy  the 
demand  for  political  reform. 

The  scripture  was  misinterpreted, 
the  clearly  defined  laws  of  the  gos- 
pel transgressed,  the  ordinances  of 
the  Church  entirely  changed.  A 
multitude  of  conflicting  creeds  had 
sprung  from  the  mother  church, 
each  teaclrng  its  own  doctrine, 
preaching  for  hire,  divining  for 
money,  teaching  for  doctrine  the 
commandments  of  men,  having  a 
form  of  godliness,  but  denying  the 
power  thereof.  One  declaring  that 
all  men  who  had  heard' the  name  of 
the  Redeemer,  and  rejected  it,  or 
even  those  who  had  never  heard  his 
name,  and  died  without  knowledge 
of  his  mission  or  mhrstry,  were 
consigned  to  endless  torment,  in  a 
hell  of  eternal  burning  from  which 
there  could  be  no  escape  worlds 
without   end.       Another    declaring 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IV INS. 


53 


that  some  men  were  foreordained 
to  salvation,  and  others  to  eternal 
■damnation,  and  that  no  act  of  theirs 
could  in  any  way  change  this  in- 
evitable decree  of  God.  This  doc- 
trine may  be  found  in  the  creeds  of 
existing  churches.  I  warrant  that 
the  man  who  conceived  the  thought, 
like  the  man  who  believed  in  the 
divine  right  of  kings,  believed  him- 
self to  be  the  one  divinely  favored 
as  against  other  men. 

Such  was  the  religious  confusion 
which  existed  in  the  world  when 
the  time  came  for  the  restoration 
of  the  simple  truths  taught  by  the 
Redeemer,  and  the  re-establishment 
of  his  Church  for  the  salvation  of 
mankind.  The  time,  the  place,  the 
circumstances  under  which  this 
restoration  was  to  be  effected,  had 
been  as  clearly  set  forth  by  the 
prophets  as  any  event  in  the  hand- 
dealings  of  the  Lord  with  his  chil- 
dren. The  old  world  had  rejected 
the  Redeemer,  had  crucified  him, 
and  persecuted  the  Church  until  it 
had  ceased  to  exist. 

The  new  world  was  the  proper 
place  for  the  restoration,  this  glori- 
ous government  the  proper  guar- 
dian of  the  Church,  old  things  were 
passing  away,  all  things  were  be- 
coming new,  the  first  was  to  be  last, 
the  last  first.  Just  as  the  establish- 
ment of  our  government  was  ac- 
complished by  simple  means,  so  was 
the  restoration  of  the  gospel.  Just 
■  as  the  men  who,  under  God,  found- 
ed this  Republic,  gave  to  the  world 
the  best  fundamental  civil  law  ever 
offered,  so  did  Joseph  Smith, 
through  whom  the  Lord  established 
his  Church,  give  to  the  world  the 
greatest  moral  code  it  has  ever 
known,  not  his,  but  Christ's,  re- 
stored through  him.  Just  as  this 
government  is  world-wide,  and  be- 
longs to  no  race  of  people,   so  is 


the  Church  world-wide,  and  belongs 
to  no  sect  or  creed.  Just  as  in  the 
state  the  more  exalted  place  within 
its  gift  is  open  to  the  humblest  citi- 
zen, so  in  the  Church  is  righteous- 
ness and  good  works  the  standard 
by  which  men  are  judged,  and  not 
by  the  heritage  of  birth.  Like  the 
State  the  Church  says  to  all  men, 
come  unto  me  all  you  who  labor  and 
are  heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give 
you  rest.  But  you  must  come  as 
true  Americans,  leave  behind  the 
prejudices  and  traditions  of  the 
past,  disavow  allegiance  to  all  other 
governments,  you  must  support  and 
defend  the  constitution  of  the 
United  States  against  all  enemies, 
foreign  or  domestic,  and  true  faith 
and  allegiance  give  to  its  institu- 
tions, if  you  would  participate  in 
the  God-given  privileges  which  this 
country  affords,  and  if  you  are  to 
enjoy  the  eternal  blessings  which 
the  restored  gospel  offers  to  all 
men,  you  must  repent  of  your  sins, 
forsake  them,  and  have  them  wash- 
ed away  by  baptism  in  the  name  of 
the  Redeemer,  and  continue  to  live 
in  righteousness  during  your  mor- 
tal life. 

Yielding  obedience  to  these  prin- 
ciples you  find  here  a  government, 
and  a  Church,  both  founded  upon 
principles  of  eternal  truth,  designed 
of  God  to  bring  civil  and  relig- 
ious emancipation  to  the  world.  The 
state  declaring  the  personal  liberty 
of  the  individual,  in  civil  life,  but 
restraining  him  when  he  infringes 
upon  the  rights  of  others,  leaving 
him  free  to  exercise  his  right  to 
worship  as  he  may  desire,  or  to  not 
worship  at  all,  declaring  that  no 
law  shall  ever  be  enacted  establish- 
ing a  form  of  religion,  or  denying 
the  free  exercise  of  religious  belief. 
The  Church  declaring  its  unquali- 
fied adherence  to  these  principles, 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


exercising-  among  its  members  the 
right  to  trial  for  fellowship  only, 
where  conduct  is  unbecoming  and 
contrary  to  the  word  of  the  Lord. 
That  this  latter  statement  may  not 
be  doubted,  let  me  read: 

"We  believe  that  governments 
were  instituted  of  God  for  the  ben- 
efit of  man,  and  that  he  holds  men 
accountable  for  their  acts  in  rela- 
tion to  them,  either  in  making  laws 
or  administering  them,  for  the  good 
and  safety  of  society. 

"We  believe  that  no  government 
can  exist  in  peace,  except  such  laws 
are  framed  and  held  inviolate  as 
will  secure  to  each  individual  the 
free  exercise  of  conscience,  the 
right  and  control  of  property,  and 
protection  of  life. 

"We  believe  that  religion  is  insti- 
tuted of  Gad,  and  that  men  are 
amenable  to  him,  and  to  him  only, 
for  the  exercise  of  it,  unless  their 
religious  opinions  prompt  them  to 
infringe  upon  the  rights  of  others; 
but  we  do  not  believe  that  human 
law  has  a  right  to  interfere  in  pre- 
scribing rules  of  worship  to  bind 
the  consciences  of  men,  nor  dictate 
forms  for  public  or  private  devo- 
tion; that  the  civil  magistrate 
should  restrain  crime,  but  never 
control  conscience;  should  punish 
guilt,  but  never  suppress  the  free- 
dom of  the  soul. 

"We  do  not  believe  it  just  to 
mingle  religious  influence  with  civil 
government,  whereby  one  religious 
society  is  fostered,  and  another  pro- 
scribed in  its  spiritual  privileges, 
and  the  individual  rights  of  its 
members  as  citizens,  denied. 

"We  believe  that  all  religious  so- 
cieties have  the  right  to  deal  with 
their  members  for  disorderly  con- 
duct according  to  the  rules  and 
regulations  of  such  societies,  pro- 
vided that  such  dealings  he  for  fel- 


lowship and  good  standing;  but  we 
do  not  believe  that  any  religious 
society  has  the  right  to  try  men  on 
the  right  of  property  or  life,  to  take 
from  them  this  world's  goods,  or  to 
put  them  in  jeopardy  of  either  life 
or  limb,  neither  to  inflict  any  phys- 
ical punishment  upon  them,  they 
can  only  excommunicate  them  from 
their  society,  and  withdraw  from 
them  their  fellowship." 

I  want  to  ask  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  if  a  better  declaration, 
defining  the  attitude  of  the  Church 
to  the  State,  and  the  State  to  the 
Church,  has  ever  been  offered  to 
the  world  than  that  which  I  have 
read.  It  is  not  a  reformed  doctrine 
of  the  Church  either,  but  one  which 
has  stood  from  its  inception  until 
today;  one  which  is  in  perfect  har- 
mony with  the  laws  of  our  country. 

I  have  been  thinking  of  these  civil 
and  Church  laws  and  applying  them 
to  the  great  issue  which  is  before 
the  world  today.  Are  we  to  revert 
to  barbarism?  Is  the  divine  right 
of  kings  to  be  established  among 
the  children  of  men  ?  Are  the  God- 
given  liberties  which  are  guaranteed 
under  our  constitution  to  be  tram- 
pled under  foot,  and  the  great  work 
which  has  been  accomplished  since 
the  restoration  of  the  gospel  of 
Christ  destroyed  by  ruthless  men 
who  honor  neither  God,  man,  nor 
religion?  These  things  are  in  the 
balance,  the  wage  of  battle  is  on, 
these  great  questions  are  to  be  de- 
cided one  way  or  the  other.  If  we 
love  them,  if  we  are  determined  in 
our  hearts  that  they  shall  not  perish 
from  the  earth,  it  remains  for  us 
not  only  to  live  for  them,  but  if 
necessary  to  die  for  them,  as  men 
who  have  lived  before  us  have  done. 
I  feel  authorized  to  say,  here  this 
afternoon,  that  these  liberties  which 
have  come  to  men,  both  religious 


ELDER  JOSEPH  C.  BENTLEY. 


55 


and  civil,  have  not  been  established 
by  the  Lord  to  be  destroyed,  but 
that  they  are  here  to  remain  until 
liberty  shall  prevail  from  the  rivers 
to  the  ends  of  the  earth,  until  God's 
kingdom  shall  be  established  among 
men,  and  his  will  done  upon  earth 
as  it  is  done  in  heaven.  Until  the 
universal  Fatherhood  of  God,  and 
brotherhood  of  man  shall  be  rec- 
ognized, and  the  kingdoms  of  this 
world  become  the  kingdoms  of 
Christ,  who  shall  reign  as  Prince  of 
Peace,  which  may  God  grant, 
through  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

The  Juab  stake  choir  sang : 
"God  is  our  refuge." — Dudley 
Buck. 


ELDER  J.  C.  BENTLEY. 

(Of  the  Juarez  Stake,   Mexico.) 

Brethren  and  Sisters:  The  few 
moments  that  I  shall  occupy  this 
afternoon,  I  earnestly  pray  that  I 
may  be  inspired  by  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord,  that  I  may  say  something 
that  will  be  instructive  and  may 
perhaps  be  an  incentive  to  our  de- 
votion to  our  heavenly  Father. 

The  testimonies  of  this  confer- 
ence, and  in  fact  everything  con- 
nected with  it,  the  hymns  that  have 
been  sung,  and  the  sweet  music  that 
we  have  heard  this  afternoon,  have 
had  a  peculiar  sweetness  to  me, 
something  that  has  been  divinely 
sweet,  and  yet  with  it  all,  it  has 
impressed  me  with  a  feeling  of 
sweet  sadness,  an  impression  that 
in  our  history  as  a  people  we  are 
perhaps  commencing  upon  a  new 
chapter.  The  impression  to  my 
mind  is  almost  like  we  were  start- 
ing out  upon  a  journey.  The  end 
is  not  so  certain,  and  yet  we  know 
that  the  end  will  bring  us  victory 


and  peace  and  happiness.  The  im- 
pressive testimonies  that  have  been 
borne,  it  seems  to  me  should  inspire 
us  to  start  upon  this  journey  with  a 
faith  in  our  heavenly  Father  that 
will  bear  us  triumphantly  through 
this  journey  to  the  end. 

The  few  Latter-day  Saints,  who 
have  been  located  in  the  republic 
of  Meixco,  have  had  now  over  five 
years  of  experience  in  war,  and  I 
want  to  bear  you  my  testimony  that 
there  is  no  pleasure  in  war.  It  has 
always  been  my  prayer  to  the  Lord 
that  this  people  may  be  kept  out 
from  war,  that  we  may  not  be 
mixed  up  with  the  war  of  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth.  I  have  always 
hoped  for  peace,  and  in  my  own 
country,  the  country  of  Mexico,  to 
which  I  belong,  I  have  always 
prayed  that  the  Lord  would  bring 
us  peace.  After  our  exodus  from 
the  Juarez  stake  of  Zion,  the  Lord 
inspired  a  few  of  his  children — not 
because  of  their  goodness  nor  their 
extreme  faith — but  he  inspired  a 
few  to  return  to  those  colonies. 
What  his  purpose  was  I  do  not 
know.  It  was  not  our  business  to 
know.  But  I  want  to  bear  my  tes- 
timony to  you  that  the  few  Latter- 
day  Saints  who  returned  to  those 
colonies  were  inspired  of  the  Lord 
to  return,  without  arms,  without 
protection,  so  far  as  this  world  was 
concerned,  absolutely  helpless,  and 
we  returned,  few  in  number,  and 
our  conditions  were  such  that  the 
Lord  was  the  only  source  in  which 
we  could  put  our  trust.  I  want  to 
bear  testimony  to  you,  to  the  youth 
of  Zion,  to  the  young  men  who 
shall  embark  upon  this  journey 
which  we  seem  to  be  inevitably 
forced  upon,  that  I  know,  as  I  know 
I  have  an  existence  here  this  after- 
noon, that  the  Lord  has  preserved 
that  handful  of  people.    When  men 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


have  come  into  our  midst  with  the 
determination  in  their  hearts  to 
commit  murder,  to  ravish  families, 
and  to  destroy  the  homes  and  the 
property  of  that  little  handful  of 
people,  our  escape  has  heen  mar- 
velous to  us,  and  I  want  to  bear  my 
testimony  to  the  youth  of  Zion  that 
God  has  preserved  his  people  by  his 
power.  It  has  been  thought  fool- 
ishness, and  we  have  been  called 
foolish — the  world,  even  our  neigh- 
bors, our  Mexican  friends,  have 
felt  that  we  were  very  foolish  in- 
deed, and  yet,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, the  Lord  has  preserved  his 
people. 

I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  to 
the  youth  of  Zion  today  that  we  are 
living  in  perilous  times,  so  far  as 
the  things  of  this  world  are  con- 
cerned, those  things  that  will  de- 
tract us  from  the  service  of  the 
Lord.  We  must  come  to  the  part- 
ing of  the  ways.  If  we  expect  to 
maintain  ourselves  during  the  com- 
ing period  of  our  existence,  we 
must  have  faith  in  God ;  we  must 
put  our  trust  in  him ;  and  we  cannot 
do  it  unless  we  live  conscientiously 
the  principles  of  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Men  and  wom- 
en and  families  who  do  not  pray  to 
the  Lord,  who  do  not  keep  the 
Word  of  Wisdom  and  observe  the 
Sabbath  day,  cannot  have  faith  in 
God,  the  eternal  Father.  It  requires 
the  observance  of  these  things  in 
order  to  have  faith  in  the  Lord. 

I  want  to  bear  testimony  to  the 
good  work  that  has  been  done  by 
the  American  army  cdming  into 
that  country.  It  has  been  thought 
by  some  to  have  been  a  failure,  and 
many  have  branded  it  as  a  failure 
and  a  mistake,  that  the  American 
army  was  *  ever  sent  into  our  coun- 
try ;  but  through  the  splendid  course 
of  the  men  who  stood  at  the  head 


of  that  army,  they  have  won  the 
hearts  of  the  Mexican  people.  In- 
stead of  destroying  life  and  prop- 
erty, instead  of  trampling  down  the 
rights  of  the  Mexican  people,  a 
spirit  of  kindness,  a  spirit  of  hu- 
manity was  extended,  and  today  the 
Mexican  people  feel  much  more 
friendly  to  the  people  of  the  United 
States ;  that  is,  the  peaceable  Mex- 
icans, feel  far  better  today,  than 
they  ever  have  felt  before.  I  don't 
know  what  shall  be  the  result  of 
this  contention,  it  may  be  that  our 
boys,  the  boys  of  this  country,  the 
young  men  of  this  Church,  may 
have  to  go  into  Mexico.  I  don't 
know  what  the  result  will  be,  but 
if  they  can  go  with  the  spirit  of 
this  conference,  if  they  can  go  with 
the  instructions  that  have  been 
given  to  us  by  those  who  have 
spoken  here  during  this  conference, 
I  know  that  victory  will  be  with  the 
people  of  God,  if  we  can  maintain 
the  spirit  and  the  teachings  of  this 
conference.  I  hope  the  time  will 
come,  if  we  shall  ever  go  into  the 
army  of  the  United  States,  that  we 
can  plant  there  the  seeds  of  the 
everlasting  gospel,  and  that  we  can 
establish  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  and  a  reputation  for 
honesty,  for  clean  lives,  for  virtue, 
and  peace,  and  for  the  kingdom  of 
God,  that  will  bring  honor  and 
credit  to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the  few 
people  who  are  still  remaining  in 
Mexico  have  enjoyed  a  period  of 
peace.  After  the  coming  out  of  the 
American  army  there  was  consid- 
erable concern  as  to  what  would  be 
our  condition  when  the  forces  of 
General  Villa  should  reach  us.  It 
was  well  understood  that  they  were 
only  waiting  to  occupy  the  territory 
that  was  vacated  by  the  American 
army,  and  there  were  rumors  that 


ELDER  JOSEPH  C.  BENTLEY. 


57 


they  had  been  instructed  to  kill  all 
foreigners,  all  Americans  especial- 
ly, and  to  come  to  the  colonies  as 
soon  as  the  army  should  retire. 
They  came  and  visited  us,  and  we 
are  grateful  to  say  that  they  left 
us  feeling  better  than  they  did  when 
they  came.  They  were  awful  hun- 
gry when  they  came,  and  when  they 
went  away  they  were  somewhat 
filled  up,  because  we  had  given  them 
a  part  of  our  substance.  When  they 
reached  our  colony  General  Salazar 
was  somewhat  ugly  and  gave  us  to 
understand  that  they  did  not  want 
any  "Pacificos"  in  Mexico,  they 
•only  wanted  fighting  men,  and  we 
could  either  fight  or  leave  the  coun- 
try. But  after  a  short  conference 
with  them  and  explaining  the  pur- 
pose of  our  being  there  and  our 
mission  among  them,  they  felt  bet- 
ter, and  General  Salazar  gave  me 
his  word  that  so  far  as  he  was  con- 
cerned our  people  were  welcome  to 
remain  in  Mexico.  We  have  con- 
tinued, up  to  the  present  time,  to 
maintain  in  friendly  relation  with 
that  people,  simply  by  carrying  out, 
as  near  as  we  could,  the  instructions 
that  had  been  given  to  us,  and  as 


they   have  been   given   to   us   here 
during  this  conference. 

May  the  blessings  of  the  Lord 
rest  upon  us  and  help  us  as  a  people 
to  magnify  our  calling  wherever 
we  shall  go,  carrying  with  us  the 
spirit  of  the  everlasting  gospel; 
•that  we  may  be  worshipers  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  sincerity,  and 
carry  into  the  army,  or  wherever  we 
shall  go,  the  teachings  of  the  gospel 
of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Notices  of  overflow  meetings  on 
Sunday  to  be  held  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  at  the  Bureau  of  Informa- 
tion, and  of  appointments  for  pre- 
siding brethren  and  speakers,  were 
read  by  President  Smith. 

The  closing  music  was  a  baritone 
solo  and  mixed  chorus  by  the  Juab 
stake  choir,  entitled,  "The  Lord 
hath  brought  again  Zion." — Arthur 
Shepherd. 

The  benediction  was  pronounced 
by  Elder  Joseph  H.  Dye,  of  the 
Shelley  stake  of  Zion. 

The  conference  adjourned  until 
10  o'clock  Sunday  morning. 


THIRD  DAY. 


Conference  continued  in  the  Tab: 
ernacle,  10  a.  m.,  Sunday,  April  8, 
1917,  President  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
presiding. 

President  Smith  announced  over- 
flow meetings  to  be  held  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall  this  morning  under  di- 
rection of  Elder  Joseph  E.  Robin- 
son, of  the  California  mission ;  also 
an  open  air  meeting  at  the  Bureau 
of  Information,  under  direction  of 
Elder  Walter  P.  Monson,  president 
of  the  Eastern  States  mission,  both 
for  the  accommodation  of  persons 
who  could  not  find  seats  in  the  great 
Tabernacle. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  sang :  "The 
Lord  is  my  Shepherd." 

Prayer  by  Elder  James  H.  Robin- 
son, president  of  the  South  Davis 
stake  of  Zion. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  sang  an  an- 
them :  "They  that  sow  in  tears 
shall  reap  in  joy." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH,  JR. 

The  moral  and  religious  condition  of 
the  world  today  is  no  better  than  in 
the  .early  nineteenth  century — There 
is  a  lack  of  geunine  faith  among  the 
people  in  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Son 
of  the  living  God,  in  his  resurrec- 
tion, and  in  his  atonement  for  the 
sins  of  the  world — The  Latter-day 
Saints  possess  faith  in  these  doc- 
trines, and  believe  in  the  literal  res- 
urrection of  the  body  from  the  grave 
— After  the  resurrection  our  bodies 
will  be  tangible,  purified,  bodies  of 
flesh  and  bones,  as  was  the  body  of 
Jesus  before  he  ascended  into  heav- 
en— Schools  and  colleges  troubled 
with  vain  philosophies,  theories,  and 
"scientific  fiction"  —  Duty  of  the 
Saints  is  to  consider  false  any  doc- 
trine that  conflicts  with  the  revealed 


word  of  God,  and  to  seek  the  Lord 
and  obey  his  commandments. 

It  is,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
trusting  in  the  Lord  and  hoping  for 
the  direction  of  the  Holy  Spirit  that 
I  stand  before  you  this  morning  for 
the  purpose  of  bearing  my  testi- 
mony in  regard  to  the  gospel  of  our 
Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ,  and 
to  give  expression  to  such  thoughts 
as  may  come  to  me  while  I  am  here 
in  this  position,  for  I  fully  believe 
in  the  gospel  which  has  been  re- 
vealed in  these  latter  days  for  the 
salvation  of  all  mankind  who  will 
repent  and  believe.  I  have  a  firm 
testimony  of  the  mission  of  our  Re- 
deemer, and  it  is  my  duty,  so  far  as 
I  have  the  power,  to  raise  my  voice 
and  to  declare  unto  the  people,  not 
only  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  but 
in  all  the  world,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God. 
I  desire  to  read  a  few  verses  from 
section  84  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  which,  I  think,  are  very 
timely.  This  revelation  was  given 
in  the  presence  of  s:x  elders  of  the 
Church  after  their  return  from  a 
mission  where  they  had  been 
preaching  the  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel in  the  western  lands,  as  it  was 
understood  at  that  time.  They  had 
returned  to  Kirtland,  in  Ohio,  re- 
joicing in  the  testimony  of  the 
truth,  in  the  manifestations  of  the 
Spirit  unto  them  and  the  goodness 
of  the  Lord  in  their  ministry,  and 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  received 
a  revelation  in  their  presence  in 
which  the  following  occurs : 

"And  I  now  give  unto  you  a  com- 
mandment   to    beware    concerning 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH,  JR. 


59 


yourselves,  to  give  diligent  heed  to 
the  words  of  eternal  life; 

"For  you  shall  live  by  every  word 
that  proceedeth  forth  from  the 
mouth  of  God. 

"For  the  word  of  the  Lord  is 
truth,  and  whatsoever  is  truth  is 
light,  and  whatsoever  is  light  is 
Spirit,  even  the  Spirit  of  Jesus 
Christ ; 

"And  the  Spirit  giveth  l:ght  to 
every  man  that  cometh  into  the 
world ;  and  the  Spirit  enlighteneth 
every  man  through  the  world,  that 
hearkeneth  to  the  voice  of  the 
Spirit; 

"And  every  one  that  hearkeneth 
to  the  voice  of  the  Spirit,  cometh 
unto  God,  even  the  Father; 

"And  the  Father  teacheth  him  of 
the  covenant  which  he  has  renewed 
and  confirmed  upon  you,  which  is 
confirmed  upon  you  for  your  sakes, 
and  not  for  your  sakes  only,  but  for 
the  sake  of  the  whole  world ; 

"And  the  whole  world  lieth  in 
sin,  and  groaneth  under  darkness 
and  under  the  bondage  of  sin; 

"And  by  this  you  may  know  they 
are  under  the  bondage  of  sin,  be- 
cause they  come  not  unto  me. 

"For  whoso  cometh  not  unto  me 
is  under  the  bondage  of  sin ; 

"And  whoso  receiveth  not  my 
voice  is  not  acquainted  with  my 
voice,  and  is  not  of  me ; 

"And  by  this  you  may  know  the 
righteous  from  the  wicked,  and  that 
the  whole  world  groaneth  under  sin 
and  darkness  even  now." 

That  was  true  when  this  revela- 
tion was  given,  in  the  year  1832.  It 
is  true  today,  and  perhaps  these 
words  can  be  expressed  with 
greater  force  regarding  the  condi- 
tions that  prevail  in  the  world  in 
this  day  than  could  be  the  case, 
speaking  of  the  people  in  the  day 
when  the  revelation  was  given.     I 


am  not  one  of  those  who  believt 
that  the  world  is  growing  better; 
I  do  not  consider  myself  a  pess:mist 
either,  but  I  do  not  believe  that  the 
world  is  becoming  more  righteous, 
that  the  inhabitants  are  drawing 
nearer  unto  God,  that  there  is  in 
the  hearts  of  the  people  a  greater 
desire  today  to  serve  him  than  in 
the  year  1832;  but,  on  the  other 
hand,  since  that  day  the  peoples  of 
the  nations  of  the  earth  have  been 
drifting,  and  drifting  farther  and 
farther  from  the  truth.  When  I 
make  this  statement  I  am  fully 
aware  that  there  has  been  progres- 
sion in  certain  directions.  I  am 
aware  that  in  these  latter  days  there 
has  been  a  movement  among  the  na- 
tions and  in  our  own  land  to  over- 
come the  evils  of  strong  drink,  and 
all  these  things  will  bring  their  re- 
sults for  good,  but  so  far  as  their 
observance  of  the  doctrines  of  the 
gospel  is  concerned,  so  far  as  their 
righteousness  is  concerned,  I  do 
not  believe  that  they  are  any 
better,  nay,  I  do  not  believe 
that  the  people  are  as  good  now, 
as  they  were  when  this  revelation 
was  given.  The  world  today  is 
full  of  vain  philosophy,  full  of  doc- 
trine that  is  not  of  the  Lord,  full 
of  false  conclusions,  ideas  and  theo- 
ries that  were  not  a  part  of  the  gos- 
pel in  the  days  of  the  Son  of  God, 
and  hence  are  not  a  part  of  it  now, 
but  on  the  contrary  are  in  absolute 
contradiction  of  the  truth.  There 
are  fewer,  in  my  judgment,  among 
the  Christian  peoples,  who  believe 
in  the  Son  of  God  as  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world.  The  tendency  has 
been,  during  all  these  years,  to  get 
farther  away  from  the  principles  of 
the  gospel  as  they  are  contained  in 
the  holy  scriptures.  The  worship 
of  reason,  of  false  philosophy,  is 
greater  now  than  it  was  then.  Men 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


are  depending  upon  their  own  re- 
search to  find  out  God,  and  that 
which  they  cannot  discover  and 
which  they  cannot  demonstrate  to 
their  satisfaction  through  their  own 
research  and  their  natural  senses, 
they  reject.  They  are  not  seeking 
for  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  they  are 
not  striving  to  know  God  in  the 
manner  in  which  he  has  marked  out 
by  which  he  may  be  known,  but 
they  are  walking  in  their  own  way, 
believing  in  their  own  man-made 
philosophies,  and  teaching  the  doc- 
trines of  devils  and  not  the  doc- 
trines of  the  Son  of  God. 

Today,  throughout  the  world,  the 
people  of  the  various  Christian  de- 
nominations are  assembling  in  their 
churches  because  it  is  Easter  Sun- 
day. They  have  not  assembled  there 
because  they  have  faith  in  the  lit- 
eral resurrection  of  the  Lord ;  they 
have  not  assembled  there  because 
they  believe  in  the  literal  resurrec- 
tion of  all  mankind  through  the 
atonement  of  our  Lord,  and  they 
have  not  assembled  because  they 
acept  him  as  the  Son  of  God.  I 
want  to  make  honorable  exceptions, 
because  there  are  some  who  have 
done  so,  but  I  speak  generally.  They 
have  assembled  there  for  a  very 
different  purpose — because  it  is  the 
custom,  because  in,  many  cases 
among  the  sisters  they  want  to 
show  their  millinery  and  the  styles 
of  their  clothing,  their  dress.  They 
are  there  more  in  the  nature  of  a 
social  function  and  fashion  show 
than  to  worsh:p  the  Lord,  and  I 
say  this  notwithstanding  the  ex- 
pression that  appears  in  one  of  our 
morning  papers  to  the  effect  that 
anybody  who  expresses  this  kind  of 
an  idea  is  cynical  and  expresses  a 
perverted  opinion. 

The  people  of  the  various  na- 
tions,  who   call   themselves    Chris- 


tian, today  do  not  worship  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  as  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world  to  the  extent  that  they  did 
even  in  the  day  of  the  organization 
of  the  Church.  The  doctrines  today 
that  prevail  are  in  opposition  to  that 
truth,  and  ministers  stand  before 
their  people 'denying  the  atonement 
of  Christ,  and  hence  showing  their 
lack  of  faith  in  and  understanding 
of  the  resurrection  of  the  Son  of 
God,  and  denying  the  universal  res- 
urrection which  the  scriptures 
promise  shall  come  to  all  mankind. 
I  have  an  expression  here  that  I 
desire  to  read.  This  is  taken  from 
a  book  published  in  the  year  1914, 
the  title  of  which  is,  A  Century's 
Change  in  Religion,  and  the  author, 
Mr.  George  Harris,  speaking  of 
these  changes  has  the  following  to 
say  in  regard  to  the  Son  of  God : 

"The  virgin  birth  is  not  regarded 
as  an  essential  doctrine  of  Chris- 
tianity. The  belief  that  Jesus  tran- 
scended humanity,  that  he  was  sin- 
less, rests  on  his  life,  teachings,  and 
work,  not  on  the  manner  of  his 
birth.  There  are  only  two  accounts 
of  the  miraculous  conception  and 
these  are  stories,  written  thirty 
years  later,  of  visions  that  Mary 
and  Joseph  were  said  to  have  had. 
There  is  no  reference  to  the  virgin 
birth  elsewhere  in  the  New  Testa- 
ment or  by  Jesus  himself. 

"The  resurrection  of  Christ  sig- 
nifies the  everlasting  Lord.  What- 
ever the  appearances  of  Jesus  to  the 
disciples  may  have  been,  whether 
actual  manifestations  we  cannot  un- 
derstand, or  subjective  visions  in 
which  his  person  seemed  real,  it  is 
certain  the  disciples  were  convinced 
that  Jesus  lived.     *     *     * 

"The  physical  world  and  the 
bodies  of  men  are  but  temporary 
conditions  in  which  the  spirit  is  lo- 
calized,    while    it    responds  to  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH,  JR. 


61 


spiritual  forces  which  know  nothing 
of  distance,  but  flash  from  life  to 
life  instantly,  as  the  lowly  plant  re- 
sponds to  the  light  and  heat  and 
magnetism  which  pervade  the  uni- 
verse." This  is  found  on  pages  99 
to  101.     Again  he  says: 

"My  influence,  shaping  the  life  of 
others,  has  in  view  the  values  that 
constitute  the  man  immortal.  And 
the  thought  of  immortality  cannot 
be  banished,  but  persists  in  one 
form  or  another,  even  if  it  be  in  so 
attenuated  a  form  as  influence  on 
others.  Corporate  immortality,  as 
the  only  immortality,  is  not  much 
debated  now,  though  we  believe  in 
it  and  delight  in  it,  have  pride  in 
the  family, — backwards  to  ancestry, 
forward  to  descendants ;  even  as  the 
scriptures  saith,  the  promise  is  to 
the  children's  children,  to  a  thou- 
sand generations.  A  rather  hold 
writer,  thinking  of  past  generations 
of  faithful,  noble  men,  links  them 
to  the  present,  which  surpasses  them 
in  knowledge  of  the  truth,  saying 
that  not  only  do  they  help  us,  but 
also  that  we  help  them ;  that  'apart 
from  us  they  should  not  be  made 
perfect.' 

"The  Jews  at  the  time  of  Christ 
believed  in  the  resurrection  of  the 
body,  except  the  sect  of  Sad.ducees, 
who  said  there  is  no  resurrection. 
For  several  centuries  of  the  Chris- 
tian era  it  was  the  common 
belief.  The  earlier  creeds  af- 
firmed it  in  so  many  words : 
T  believe  in  the  resurrection  of 
the  body  and  the  life  everlasting.' 
The  Apostle  Paul  disclaimed  it,  and 
called  that  man  a  fool,  a  foolish  one, 
who  supposed  that  this  very  body  of 
flesh  and  blood  will  be  raised  up. 
It  is  not  a  physical  body,  that  will 
be  raised,  he  says,  but  a  sp:ritual 
body.  There  are  celestial  bodies  and 
bodies  terrestrial ;  Out  the  glory  of 


the  celestial  is  one,  and  the  glory  of 
the  terrestrial  is  another.  And  as 
we  have  borne  the  image  of  the 
earthly,  we  shall  also  bear  the  image 
of  the  heavenly.  I  suppose  nobody 
now  believes  in  the  literal  resurrec- 
tion of  the  body.  When  we  repeat 
the  pharse  in  the  Apostles'  Creed 
we  think  of  that  for  which  it  stands 
and  which  immediately  follows — 
the  life  everlasting."  This  is  taken 
from  pages  177  and  178. 

Another  writer  commenting  in  an 
Easter  sermon,  or  editorial,  in  one 
of  our  leading  magazines,  a  year  or 
two  ago,  had  this  to  say,  speaking 
of  the  doctrine  of  the  literal  resur- 
rection of  the  body : 

"All  this  is  a  beautiful  and  facile 
faith.  It  takes  the  world  quite  too 
easily.  It  rests  everything  on  the 
power  of  God.  It  is  harder  for  us, 
in  these  .days  of  science,  to  believe 
quite  so  readily  what  seems  unrea- 
sonable, and  on  authority  of  a  creed 
which  the  apostles  never  heard." — 
That  in  reference  to  this  Apostles' 
Creed  already  mentioned. — "We 
prefer  to  talk  of  the  spiritual  body 
which  is  not  the  body  of  this  flesh. 
It  is  the  spiritual  body  which  will 
arise,  that  is,  will  survive ;  and  the 
spiritual  body  is  the  soul  immortal. 
We  do  not  understand  any  other 
body.  So  we  interpret  Paul.  And 
in  the  assurance  of  the  eternal  life 
with  Christ  we  rest  on  his  promise, 
'this  .day  shalt  thou  be  with  me  in 
Paradise.' " 

That  is  the  doctrine  of  a  large 
part  of  the  Christian  world,  and  I 
want  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  it  is  false  doctrine, 
that  it  is  not  the  gospel  taught  by 
Jesus  Christ,  and  there  is  no  war- 
rant in  the  scriptures  for  any  such 
conclusions.  Paul  .did  not  express 
anywhere  in  his  writings  that  there 
should  not  be  a  resurrection  of  the 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


body  and  a  re-uniting  of  the  body 
with  the  spirit,  and  those  who  in- 
terpret the  writings  of  Paul — and 
they  have  reference  to  his  state- 
ment in  the  fifteenth  chapter  of  first 
Corinthians — do  not  understand  the 
scriptures.  They  have  no  idea  of 
what  Paul  was  speaking ;  they  mis- 
interpret, they  put  a  false  construc- 
tion upon  the  teachings  of  the 
scriptures,  not  being  led  by  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord.  I  believe,  and 
you  believe,  all  Latter-day  Saints 
believe,  in  the  literal  resurrection 
of  the  body  and  its  reuniting  with 
the  spirit,  thus  becoming,  as  the 
scriptures  informs  us,  the  soul  of 
man.  The  resurrection  of  the  Son 
of  God  was  typical.  We  are  in- 
formed that  his  body  did  not  see 
corruption,  although  it  was  placed 
in  the' tomb  and  remained  there  for 
the  three  .days,  according  to  the  pre- 
dictions in  the  scriptures.  Again, 
that  body  was  taken  up  and  spirit 
and  body  again  united  inseparably, 
and  in  that  form  he  appeared  unto 
his  disciples  who  were  unconvinced 
when  he  appeared  to  them  and 
"were  terrified  and  affrighted,"  the 
scriptures  say,  thinking  they  had 
seen  a  spirit.  He  manifested  to 
them  that  it  was  himself,  and  called 
upon  them,  in  order  to  convince 
them  that  it  was  the  body  that  was 
laid  in  the  tomb,  to  come  and  han- 
dle him  and  see  for  themselves  that 
it  was  his  body  that  had  been 
pierced  and  they  thrust  their  hands 
into  the  wounds  in  his  hands,  his 
feet  and  his  side. 

As  he  arose  from  the  dead,  so 
shall  all  men  rise ;  both  the  just  and 
the  unjust  shall  come  forth  from 
the  grave.  The  sea  shall  give  up 
its  dead ;  the  grave  shall  give  up 
its  dead ;  all  shall  come  forth  and 
stand  before  the  judgment  seat  of 
God  to  be  judged  according  to  their 


works.  They  shall  not  all  come 
forth  at  the  same  time.  Those  who 
are  Christ's  shall  come  forth  at  his 
coming.  Matthew  informs  us  that 
following  the  resurrection  of  the 
Son  of  God  "the  graves  were  open- 
ed, and  many  bodies  of  the  Saints 
which  slept  arose  and  came  out  of 
their  graves  and  went  into  the  holy 
city  and  appeared  unto  many." 

These  modern  blind  teachers  of 
the  blind  have  a  very  false  under- 
standing of  what  is  meant  by  a  spir- 
itual body.  They  have  based  their 
conclusion  on  the  statement  that 
Paul  makes  that  the  body  is  raised 
a  spiritual  body,  and  that  flesh  and 
blood  cannot  inherit  the  kingdom 
of  God.  They  cannot  conceive  in 
their  minds  a  body  raised  from  the 
dead,  being  composed  of  flesh  and 
bones,  quickened  by  spirit  and  not 
by  blood.  When  Paul  spoke  of  the 
spiritual  body  he  had  no  reference 
at  all  to  the  spirit  body  and  there 
they  have  made  their  mistake.  They 
have  confused  the  spiritual  body, 
or,  in  other  words,  the  body  quick- 
ened by  the  spirit,  with  the  body  of 
the  spirit  alone.  They  think  that 
those  who  believe  in  the  resurrec- 
tion of  the  literal  body  believe  that 
it  shall  be  raised  again,  quickened 
by  blood,  which  is  not  the  case.  I 
want  to  read  another  verse  from 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

"Now,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that 
through  the  redemption  which  is 
made  for  you  is  brought  to  pass  the 
resurrection  from  the  dead. 

"And  the  spirit  and  the  body  is 
the  soul  of  man. 

"And  the  resurrection  from  the 
dead  is  the  redemption  of  the  soul ; 

"And  the  redemption  of  the  soul 
is  through  him  who  quickeneth  all 
things,  in  whose  bosom  it  is  decreed 
that  the  poor  and  the  meek  of  the 
earth  shall  inherit  it. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH,  JR. 


"Therefore  it  [the  earth]  must 
needs  be  sanctified  from  all  un- 
righteousness, that  it  may  be  pre- 
pared for  the  celestial  glory ; 

"For  after  it  hath  filled  the  meas- 
ure of  its  creation,  it  shall  be 
crowned  with  glory,  even  with  the 
presence  of  God  the  Father; 

"That  bodies  who  are  of  the  ce- 
lestial kingdom  may  possess  it  for 
ever  and  ever;  for,  for  this  intent 
was  it  made  and  created,  and  for 
this  intent  are  they  sanctified." 

"And  again,  verily  I  say  unto 
you,  the  earth  abideth  the  law  of  a 
celestial  kingdom,  for  it  filleth  the 
measure  of  its  creation  and  trans- 
gresseth  not  the  law. 

"Wherefore  it  shall  be  sanctified ; 
yea,  notwithstanding  it  shall  die,  it 
shall  be  quickened  again,  and  shall 
abide  the  power  by  which  it  is 
quickened,  and  the  righteous  shall 
inherit  it; 

"For  notwithstanding  they  die, 
they  also  shall  rise  aga:n  a  spiritual 
body : 

"They  who  are  of  a  celestial  spirit 
shall  receive  the  same  body  which 
was  a  natural  body;  even  ye  shall 
receive  your  bodies,  and  your  glory 
shall  be  that  glory  by  which  your 
bodies  are  quickened. 

"Ye  who  are  quickened  by  a  por- 
tion of  the  celestial  glory  shall  then 
receive  of  the  same,  even  a  fulness ; 

"And  they  who  are  quickened  by 
a  portion  of  the  terrestrial  glory 
shall  then  receive  of  the  same,  even 
a  fulness ;"  and  so  on. 

After  the  resurrection  from  the 
dead  our  bodies  will  be  spiritual 
bodies,  but  they  will  be  bodies  that 
are  tangible,  bodies  that  have  been 
purified,  but  they  will  nevertheless 
be  bodies  of  flesh  and  bones,  but 
they  will  not  be  blood  bodies,  they 
will  no  longer  te  quickened  by  blood 


but  quickened  by  the  spirit  whxh  is 
eternal  and  they  shall  become  im- 
mortal and  shall  never  die. 

Now,  if  our  good  friends  under- 
stood this,  they  would  not  fall  into 
this  error  of  thinking  that  Paul's 
doctrine  was  in  conflict  with  that  of 
the  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ, 
when  Paul  declared  that  the  body 
that  would  be  raised  would  be  a 
spiritual  body.  You  read  in  the 
Book  of  Genesis,  where  the  Lord 
said  to  Noah  after  the  flood,  that 
the  blood  was  the  life  of  the  body; 
the  blood  is  the  life  thereof,  he  says. 
Therefore,  whoso  sheddeth  man's 
blood,  by  man  shall  his  blood  be 
shed,  because  blood  is  the  life  of  the 
mortal  body,  but  with  the  body 
brought  forth  in  the  resurrection, 
which  is  the  immortal  body,  that  is 
not  the  case,  in  it  blood  does  not 
exist,  but  the  spirit  is  the  life-giving 
power  and  hence  they  are  no  longer 
bodies  quickened  by  blood  but 
bodies  quickened  by  spirit  and  hence 
they  are  spiritual  bodies,  but  tangi- 
ble bodies  of  flesh  and  bones,  just 
as  was  the  body  of  the  Son  of  God. 
Now  this  is  the  doctrine  of  the 
Lord  and  Savior  of  the  world. 

I  had  a  conversation  with  a  man 
one  time,  a  minister,  and  he  took 
this  view  which  prevails  so  largely 
in  the  world,  and  I  forced  him,  by 
the  reading  of  the  scriptures,  to  ad- 
mit that  when  the  Savior  appeared 
to  his  disciples  and  said  unto  them, 
"Behold  my  hands  and  my  feet,  that 
it  is  I  myself;  handle  me,  and  see; 
for  a  spirit  hath  not  flesh  and  bones 
as  ye  see  me  have,"  that  the  Savior 
really  spoke  the  truth,  and  I  asked 
h:m,  "that  being  true,  then  how  in 
the  world  do  you  believe,  how  can 
you  believe,  that  today  he  sits  in  the 
heavens  without  a  body  of  flesh  and 
bones?"  His  answer  was,  "After 
he  ascended  from    the     Mount  of 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Olives  he  shed  his  body  of  flesh  and 
bones."  I  asked  him  for  the  chap- 
ter and  verse  and,  of  course,  he  was 
unable  to  give  it. 

The  Lord  has  very  clearly  set 
forth  the  doctrine  of  the  resurrec- 
tion. He  declared  shortly  before 
his  crucifixion  that  the  hour  was 
coming  and,  he  said,  now  is,  when 
the  dead  shall  hear  the  voice  of  the 
Son  of  God,  and  they  that  hear  shall 
live.  Even  his  disciples  wondered 
what  he  meant.  They  marveled  at 
it,  they  could  not  fully  comprehend 
it,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that 
they  believed  in  the  literal  resur- 
rection of  the  body  in  those  days, 
and  the  Savior  seeing  their  perplex- 
ity said  unto  them  and  unto  the  peo- 
ple who  were  there  assembled: 
"Marvel  not  at  this:  for  the  hour 
is  coming  in  the  which  all  that  are 
in  their  graves  shall  hear  his  voice 
and  shall  come  forth,  they  that 
have  done  good  unto  the  resurrec- 
tion of  life,  and  they  that  have  done 
evil  unto  the  resurrection  of  dam- 
nation." Now  the  world  interprets 
that  to  mean  those  who  are  dead  in 
trespasses  and  sin,  those  who  are  in 
bondage  of  iniquity  should  hear  his 
voice,  but  the  Lord  meant  literally 
just  what  he  said  when  he  declared 
that  the  dead  should  hear  his  voice 
and  should  come  forth,  they  that 
had  done  good  unto  the  resurrec- 
tion of  life,  and  they  that  had  done 
evil  unto  the  resurrection  of  dam- 
nation, for  the  resurrection  shall 
come  upon  all  mankind  for  they  are 
not  responsible  for  death.  The  Lord 
will  not  punish  them  for  Adam's 
transgression.  Therefore,  he  took 
upon  him  the  sins  of  all  mankind 
and  redeemed  every  creature  from 
death  and  granted  unto  each  one  of 
us  a  resurrection,  but  not  eternal 
life,  not  salvation,  not  an  existence 
in  the  presence  of  his  Father  in  the 


celestial  kingdom.  That  comes 
through  faithfulness,  through  dili- 
gence, through  perseverance  on  our 
part  and  through  our  belief  and  ac- 
ceptance and  our  keeping  of  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord.  Now 
I  said  in  the  beginning  that  the 
World  is  full  of  philosophy.  One 
prominent  and  intelligent  writer 
has  called  these  theories,  "scientific 
fiction."  I  think  he  is  right.  We 
have  the  theories  of  evolution,  of 
higher  criticism,  the  ideas  that  pre- 
vail in  the  schools  throughout  our 
land  that  are  dangerous,  that  are 
striking  at  the  fundamentals  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  trying  to  de- 
stroy the  faith  in  the  minds  of  the 
students  who  attend  the  schools. 
We  are  troubled  with  it  to  some  ex- 
tent even  in  our  own  state  and  the 
colleges  throughout  the  country  are 
full  of  it,  and  the  professors  teach 
it,  they  believe  in  it,  at  least  they 
profess  to  believe  in  it,  and  it  seems 
to  me  that  the  sole  purpose  of  it  is 
to  undermine  and  destroy  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  I  want  to  say  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints  that  it  is  our 
duty  to  put  our  faith  in  the  revealed 
word  of  God,  to  accept  that  which 
has  come  through  inspiration, 
through  revelation  unto  his  ser- 
vants, the  prophets,  both  ancient 
and  modern,  and  whenever  you  find 
any  doctrine,  any  idea,  any  expres- 
sion from  any  source  whatsoever, 
that  is  in  conflict  with  that  which 
the  Lord  has  revealed  and  which  is 
found  in  the  holy  scriptures,  you 
may  be  assured  that  it  is  false 
and  you  should  put  it  aside 
and  stand  firmly  grounded  in 
the  truth  in  prayer  and  in  faith, 
relying  upon  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,  for  knowledge,  for  wis- 
dom, concerning  these  principles  of 
truth.  If  you  will  walk  in  the  light 
as  I  have  read  here,  and  will  receive 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH,  JR. 


65 


the  doctrines  of  our  Redeemer,  he 
will  grant  unto  you,  through  the  in- 
spiration that  will  come  from  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  a  testimony  of 
the  truth  and  you  need  not  walk  in 
darkness  nor  in  doubt,  but  may  have 
a  clear  and  a  distinct  comprehen- 
sion, and  understanding  of  the  truth 
which  will  make  you  free.  It  is  our 
duty  to  seek  the  Lord,  to  obey  his 
laws,  to  keep  his  commandments,  to 
put  away  from  us  light-mindedness, 
foolishness,  and  the  false  theories, 
notions,  and  philosophies  of  the 
world,  and  to  accept  with  fulness  of 
heart  and  in  humility  these  solemn, 
God-given  principles  which  will 
bring  unto  us  eternal  life  in  the 
Celestial  kingdom.  That  we  may  do 
this  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

A  tenor  solo  was  sung  by  James 
H.  Nielsen,  entitled,  "If  with  all 
your  hearts." — Mendelssohn. 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE. 

The  Kingdom  of  God  and  the  King- 
dom of  Heaven. — Our  Literal  ac- 
ceptance of  the  Scriptures. — The 
Lord's  second  advent  affirmed. — 
The  consummation  of  the  ages  near 
at  hand. 

"Our  Father,  which  art  in 
heaven,  hallowed  be  thy  name.  Thy 
kingdom  come.  Thy  will  be  done 
in  earth  as  it  is  in  heaven." 

Thus  did  our  Lord  and  Master 
teach  the  Saints  in  olden  times  to 
pray.  The  pattern  whicli  He  gave 
for  prayer  has  never  been  super- 
seded nor  abrogated.  Thus  does 
the  Christian  world  profess  to  pray 
today  :  "Thy  kingdom  come.  Thy 
will  be  done  in  earth  as  it  is  in 
heaven."  If  ever  there  were  ra- 
tional and  imperative  need  for  such 
prayer  as  this,  today  witnesses  that 
need.     Who   will   dare   affirm   that 


we  need  no  longer  pray  that  the 
kingdom  of  heaven  may  come,  or 
that  the  will  of  God  is  being 
wrought  upon  the  earth  as  it  is  in 
heaven  ? 

Do  you  believe  that  the  kingdom 
of  heaven  has  been  already  set  up 
upon  the  earth?  I  do  not.  I  know 
that  the  kingdom  of  God  has  been 
established  upon  the  earth,  but  the 
kingdom  of  God  is  a  preparation 
for  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  which 
is  yet  to  come.  The  expressions 
"Kingdom  of  God"  and  "Kingdom 
of  Heaven"  are  ofttimes  used  syn- 
onymously and  interchangeably  in 
our  imperfect  English  translation 
of  the  Holy  Bible,  particularly  in 
the  Gospel  according  to  Matthew, 
where  the  expression  "Kingdom  of 
Heaven"  is  most  commonly,  used. 
But  in  these  instances,  as  in  so  many 
others,  the  light  of  modern  revela- 
tion clears  up  the  darkness  of 
ancient  passages ;  and  the  Lord  has 
in  this  day  and  age  made  plain  the 
fact,  beyond  all  question,  that  there 
is  a  distinction  between  the  king- 
dom of  God  and  the  kingdom  of 
heaven.  The  kingdom  of  God  is 
the  Church  of  Christ ;  the  kingdom 
of  heaven  is  that  system  of  govern- 
ment and  administration  which  is 
operative  in  heaven,  and  which  we 
pray  may  some  day  prevail  on 
earth.  The  kingdom  of  heaven  will 
he  established  when  the  King  shall 
come,  as  come  He  shall,  in  power 
and  might  and  glory,  to  take  do- 
minion in  and  over  and  throughout 
the  earth. 

Thus  spake  the  Lord  in  the  year 
1831,  calling  attention  to  the  immi- 
nent duty  of  the  Church  and, the 
Saints : 

"Hearken,  and  lo,  a  voice  as  of  one 
from  on  high,  who  is  mighty  and 
powerful,  whose  going  forth  is  unto 
the  ends  of  the  earth,  yea,  whose  voice 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


is  unto  men. — Prepare  ye  the  way  of 
Lord,  make  his  paths  straight. 

"The  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God 
are  committed  unto  man  on  the  earth, 
and  from  thence  shall  the  gospel  roll 
forth  unto  the  ends  of  the  earth,  as 
the  stone  which  is  cut  out  of  the 
mountain  without  hands  shall  roll 
forth,  until  it  has  filled  the  whole 
earth; 

"Yea,  a  voice  crying, — Prepare  ye 
the  way  of  the  Lord,  prepare  ye  the 
supper  of  the  Lamb,  make  ready  for 
the  Bridegroom; 

"Pray  unto  the  Lord,  call  upon  his 
holy  name,  make  known  his  wonderful 
works  among  the  people; 

"Call  upon  the  Lord,  that  his  king- 
dom may  go  forth  upon  the  earth, 
that  the  inhabitants  thereof  may  re- 
ceive it,  and  be  prepared  for  the  days 
to  come,  in  the  which  the  Son  of  Man 
shall  come  down  in  heaven,  clothed 
in  the  brightness  of  his  glory,  to  meet, 
the  kingdom  of  God  which  is  set  up 
on  the  earth; 

"Wherefore  may  the  kingdom  of 
God  go  forth,  that  the  kingdom  of 
heaven  may  come,  that  thou,  O  God, 
mayest  be  glorified  in  heaven  so  on 
earth,  that  thy  enemies  may  be  sub- 
dued; for  thine  is  the  honor,  power 
and  glory,  for  ever  and  ever.     Amen." 

Thus  reads  the  revelation  known 
to  us  as  Section  65  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants.  The  kingdom  of 
heaven  shall  come,  and  then  shall 
justice  rule  in  the  earth.  No  longer 
shall  men  rise  in  unrighteous  do- 
minion over  their  fellows.  No 
longer  shall  men  exalt  themselves 
on  thrones,  nor  adorn  themselves 
with  crowns  and  scepters.  The  best 
form  of  government  possible  unto 
man  is  a  monarchy  with  the  right 
kind  of  a  monarch,  who  will  do 
only  justice,  full  justice,  and  with 
due  regard  to  the  claims  of  mercy, 
give  unto  every  man  his  right.  Such 
a  government  will  be  democracy 
and  monarchy  combined,  and  such 
is  the  government  of  the  kingdom 
of  heaven. 

The  work  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 


Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  may  be 
summed  up  as  the  preparation  of 
the  earth  for  the  coming  of  its  Lord 
and  King.  As  in  the  meridian  of 
time  the  voice  of  the  Baptist  was 
heard  in  the  wilderness,  "Repent 
ye,  for  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is 
at  hand,"  so  has  the  voice  of  that 
same  John  the  Baptist  been  heard 
in  this  day,  restoring  the  authority 
of  the  Priesthood  requisite  to  the 
administration  of  the  ordinance  of 
baptism,  whereby  remission  of  sins 
may  be  obtained ;  and  the  procla- 
mation is  made  now,  "The  kingdom 
of  heaven  is  at  hand."  That  pro- 
clamation is  authoritatively  sounded 
throughout  the  world ;  and  the  work 
of  the  Church,  which  is  veritably 
the  kingdom  of  God,  is  to  prepare 
the  earth  for  the  coming  of  the 
King  of  earth  and  heaven,  and  for 
the  establishment  of  the  kingdom 
of  heaven  upon  the  earth. 

We  Latter-day  Saints  are  peculi- 
arly literal  in  our  acceptance  of 
plain  scripture.  We  believe  that  the 
Scriptures  are  very  simple  to  under- 
stand, if  we  can  only  get  the  theo- 
logians to  leave  them  alone  and  not 
confuse  us  with  explanations.  The 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  enlighten  the 
mind  of  the  earnest  reader,  and  will 
interpret  the  Scriptures,  for  that  is 
the  spirit  in  which  the  Scriptures 
were  written.  When  we  read  in 
prophecy,  ancient  and  modern,  and 
find  in  all  predictions  bearing  upon 
th:s  subject  a  strict  unanimity,  with- 
out any  shadow  of  contradiction  or 
inconsistency,  we  hold  it  to  be  a 
fact  beyond  question  that  the 
Christ,  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  who 
lived  in  the  flesh,  who  was  actually 
crucified,  and  who  .did  take  up  that 
same  body  of  flesh  and  bones  that 
had  lain  in  the  tomb  of  Joseph  of 
Arimathea,  shall  come  in  that  same 
body  and  stand  upon  the  earth  and 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE. 


67 


mingle    with  His    people,  and  rule 
and  reign. 

Forty  days  after  the  day  in  com- 
memoration of  which  this  Easter 
Sunday  is  celebrated  throughout 
Christendom,  Christ  led  out  His 
faithful  servants,  those  who  had 
been  commissioned  to  administer  in 
the  authority  of  the  holy  Priesthoo.d 
after  He  would  leave,  led  them  out 
to  the  historic  little  mount,  Olivet; 
and  there  after  communing  with 
them  and  giving  them  final  instruc- 
tions, answering  some  of  their 
eager  questions,  and  putting  others 
aside  with  but  partial  answer  be- 
cause the  brethren  were  unprepared 
to  fully  comprehend,  He  ascended 
from  their  midst.  They  saw  Him 
ascend;  there  was  no  shedding  of 
body  or  robe ;  and  as  they  watched 
Him  disappearing  in  the  upper  deep 
they  became  aware  of  the  presence 
of  two  white-robed  angels,  who  ad- 
dressed them  saying:  "Ye  men  of 
Galilee,  why  stand  ye  gazing  up  into 
heaven?  This  same  Jesus,  which  is 
taken  up  from  you  into  heaven, 
shall  so  come  in  like  manner  as  ye 
have  seen  him  go  into  heaven." 

I  admit  that  we  Latter-day  Saints 
are  behind  the  times  in  many  re- 
spects. We  are  still  simple-minded 
enough  to  believe  what  the  Scrip- 
tures say,  which  is  the  truth,  and 
which  cannot  be  gainsaid.  Time 
forbids  me  citing  even  the  most  im- 
portant and  most  striking  of  ancient 
prophecies  relating  to  the  coming  of 
the  Son  of  God  in  the  .dispensation 
of  fulness,  which  is  known  as  the 
day  of  vengeance.  It  was  shown 
unto  the  prophets,  however,  even  in 
the  most  ancient  of  times.  Adam 
learned  of  it.  Enoch,  the  seventh 
from  Adam,  prophesied  of  it,  de- 
claring that  in  the  last  days  Jesus 
the  Christ  would  come  with  ten 
thousand  of  His  saints  to  rule  in 


person  upon  the  earth  for  a  thou- 
sand years.  I  find  nothing  ambig- 
uous in  that,  nothing  requiring  an 
interpreter.  If  I  understand  Eng- 
lish at  all,  if  I  am  more  than  a  child 
in  understanding,  I  can  comprehend 
what  that  declaration  means ;  and  I 
believe  it  in  its  impressive  literal- 
ness  and  in  all  its  grand  and  glori- 
ous simplicity. 

In  preparing  the  world  for  the 
coming  of  the  Lord  there  is  a  duty 
laid  upon  the  Church  as  an  organ- 
ization, and  upon  every  member  of 
the  Church  individually;  and  that 
duty  or  obligation  is  to  carry  the 
word  to  our  neighbors,  to  all  with 
whom  we  may  come  in  contact.  Re- 
member the  mission  of  the  Church 
is  not  wholly  and  solely  to  convert 
men  to  the  acceptance  of  its  princi- 
ples and  to  bring  them  into  mem- 
bership. The  duty  laid  upon  us  is 
also  that  of  warning  the  world  of 
the  judgments  that  are  to  come. 
Can  you  doubt  that  the  present 
dread  scenes  of  conflict  and  slaugh- 
ter on  land  and  sea,  in  the  air  and 
beneath  the  water,  are  insignificant 
as  signs  of  the  times  ? 

In  that  solemn  interview  which 
Christ  had  with  His  apostles  just 
after  their  departure  from  the 
temple  for  the  last  time,  in  the 
course  of  the  evening  walk  back  to 
Bethany,  He  rested  on  the  slopes  of 
Olivet,  and  the  apostles  came  to 
Him  privately  to  ask  certain  ques- 
tions regarding  the  time  of  His 
coming,  which  He  had  in  part  ex- 
plained to  them.  Read  for  your- 
selves the  twenty-fourth  chapter  of 
Matthew  and  the  twenty-first  chap- 
ter of  Luke.  The  burden  of  the 
Lord's  instructions  was  this : 
Watch,  for  ye  know  not  the  day  nor 
the  hour.  He  went  so  far  as  to  tell 
them  that  not  even  the  angels  in 
heaven,  nor  at  that  time  did  the  Son 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


himself  know  the  time  appointed 
for  His  return  in  glory  to  exercise 
dominion  on  the  earth.  That  knowl- 
edge He  said,  rested  with  the 
Father  only.  So  in  our  assurance 
that  the  Lord  shall  come,  and  that 
His  coming  is  very  near,  let  us  be- 
ware of  those  who  undertake  to  set 
dates,  to  .designate  months  and 
years ;  for  the  Lord  hath  posi- 
tively declared  that  that  shall  not 
b.e  given  to  man  to  know,  nor  even 
to  the  angels  who  stand  in  the  pres- 
ence of  God.  But  certain  signs  are 
specified,  and  those  signs  are  today 
ripening  like  the  fruit  in  autumn- 
tide,  when  the  fulness  of  summer  is 
past.  Who  can  doubt  the  immi- 
nence of  this  event,  which  shall  be 
known  as  the  consummation  of  the 
ages? 

We  do  well  to  bear  in  mind  the 
fact  that  the  coming  of  the  Christ 
is  not  the  event  spoken  of  in  the 
Scriptures  by  the  figurative  phrase 
"the  end  of  the  world".  That  is 
not  to  be  the  occasion  of  the  final 
judgment.  Yet  when  Christ  comes 
He  shall  execute  judgment;  and  the 
wilfully  hopeless,  the  unregenerate 
wicked  shall  be  destroyed.  Then 
there  shall  be  a  general  resurrection 
of  the  righteous  .dead,  and  a  change 
from  mortality  to  immortality  in  the 
case  of  many  who  are  living  in  the 
flesh  at  the  time  of  His  coming. 
But  following  the  millennium,  a 
thousand  years  of  peace,  shall  be 
the  final  resurrection,  in  which  men 
shall  stand  in  their  bodies  of  flesh 
and  bones  before  the  judgment  seat 
of  God. 

I  ask  your  attentive  consideration 
of  one  of  the  many  utterances  of 
the  Lord  concerning  His  coming, 
given  to  us  in  these  modern  days, 
as  recorded  in  the  88th  Section  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  Tn 
1832,  the  Lord  said  unto  His  elders 


and  the  Church  generally,  through 
the  mouth  of  the  Prophet  Joseph: 

"And  I  give  unto  you  a  command- 
ment, that  you  shall  teach  one  another 
the  doctrine  of  the  kingdom; 

"Teach  ye  diligently  and  my  grace 
shall  attend  you,  that  you  may  be  in- 
structed more  perfectly  in  theory,  in 
principle,  in  doctrine,  in  the  law  of 
the  gospel,  in  all  things  that  pertain 
unto  the  kingdom  of  God,  that  are  ex- 
pedient for  you  to  understand; 
#  $  $  ♦         * 

"Behold  I  sent  y,ou  out  to  testify 
and  warn  the  people,  and  it  becometh 
every  man  who  hath  be.e:i  warned,  to 
warn  his  neighbor. 

"Therefore,  they  are  left  without 
excuse,  and  their  sins  are  upon  their 
own  heads. 

"He  that  seeketh  me  early  shall 
find  me,  and  shall  not  be  forsaken. 

"Abide  ye  in  the  liberty  wherewith 
ye  are  made  free;  entangle  not  your- 
selves in  sin,  but  let  your  hands  be 
clean,  until  the  Lord  come; 

"For  not  many  days  hence  and  the 
earth  shall  tremble  and  reel  to  and  fro 
as  a  drunken  man,  and  the  sun  shall 
hide  his  face,  and  shall  refuse  to  give 
light,  and  the  moon  shall  be  bathed 
in  blood,  and  the  stars  shall  become 
exceeding  angry,  and  shall  cast  them- 
selves down  as  a  fig  that  falleth  from 
off  a  fig  tree. 

"And  after  your  testimony  cometh 
wrath  and  indigation  upon  the  people; 
the  testimony  of  earthquakes,  that 
shall  cause  groanings  in  the  midst  of 
her,  and  men  shall  fall  upon  the 
ground,  and  shall  not  be  able  to  stand. 

"And  also  cometh  the  testimony  of 
the  voice  of  thunderings,  and  the 
voice  of  lightnings,  and  the  voice  of 
tempests,  and  the  voice  of  the  waves 
of  the  sea  heaving  themselves  beyond 
their  bounds. 

"And  all  things  shall  be  in  commo- 
tion; and  surely,  men's  hearts  shall 
fail  them;  for  fear  shall  come  upon  all 
people; 

"And  angels  shall  fly  through  the 
midst  of  heaven,  crying  with  a  loud 
voice,  sounding  the  trump  ,of  God, 
saying,  Prepare  ye,  prepare  ye,  O  in- 
habitants of  the  earth;  for  the  judg- 
ment of  our  God  is  come;  behold,  and 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE. 


69 


lo!  the  Bridegroom  cometh,  go  ye  out 
to  meet  him. 

"And  the  saints  that  are  upon  the 
earth,  who  are  alive,  shall  be  quick- 
ened, and  be  caught  up  to  meet  him. 

"And  they  who  have  slept  in  their 
graves  shall  come  forth;  for  they 
shall  he  caught  up  to  meet  him  in  the 
midst  of  the  pillar  of  heaven." 

I  believe  it  all  without  question  or 
mental  reservation.  And  now,  as  I 
know  that  I  may  be  criticized  by 
some,  who  pride  themselves  on 
scholarship,  for  the  child-like  sim- 
plicity of  my  acceptance  and  for  my 
belief  in  the  literalness  of  these 
events,  I  say  to  you  in  paraphrase 
of  the  utterance  of  Paul :  Brethren, 
I  come  not  to  you  with  excellency 
of  speech  or  of  wisdom,  declaring 
unto  you  the  testimony  of  God.  For 
I  am  determined  not  to  know  any- 
thing amongst  you  save  Jesus 
Christ  and  him  crucified,  the  Christ 
who  is  to  come.  And  I  am  with 
you  in  weakness  and  in  fear  and  in 
much  trembling.  And  my  speech 
and  my  preaching  unto  you  is  not 
with  the  .enticing  words  of  man's 
wisdom,  but  in  demonstration  of 
the  Spirit  and  of  power.  That  our 
faith  may  not  stand  in  the  wisdom 
of  men,  but  in  the  power  of  God. 
So  be  it,  in  the  name  of  Christ. 
Amen. 

PATRIARCH  HYRUM  G.  SMITH. 

Testimony  that  the  Lord  lives — 
Christ's  love  for  little  children  is 
boundless;  they  cannot  commit  sin, 
and  are  saved  without  baptism — 
Comfort  assured  to  mothers  who 
have  lost  little  children — The  Lord 
loves  the  .obedient,  and  such  as 
have  faith  as  a  little  child — More 
poignant  sorrow  comes  from  diso- 
bedience than  from  separation  for 
a  time — Let  us  honor  the  law  of  the 
Lord  that  we  may  claim  our  loved 
ones  in  the  glorious  day  of  the  res- 
urrection. 


I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, in  being  permitted  once  more 
to  see  this  vast  throng  of  people 
in  this  place  of  worship,  and  I  bear 
testimony  that  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  has  been  with  us  in  every  ses- 
sion of  this  conference,  both  with 
those  who  have  spoken  and  with 
those  who  have  sung  praises  of  the 
Lord,  also  with  those  who  have  of- 
fered prayer.  The  Spirit  of  the- 
Lord  has  prompted  all  the  exercises 
of  this  conference  thus  far,  and  I 
pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will 
be  with  me  in  my  brief  testimony, 
that  what  I  may  say  may  be  so  im- 
pressed upon  the  minds  of  those 
who  have  gathered  "here  that  it 
may  be  beneficial. 

We  have  heard  much  about  the 
mission  and  characteristics  of  our 
Savior  and  our  Redeemer.  We 
have  heard  the  testimonies  of  his 
servants  in  these  the  last  days,  and 
I  bear  testimony  to  their  truthful- 
ness, and  would  like  to  add  my  tes- 
timony thereunto.  I  know  that  the 
Lord  lives,  that  he  actually  lives, 
and  my  faith  in  my  Father  in 
heaven  is  as  firm  and  clear  from 
doubt  as  the  faith  of  a  little  child, 
knowing  that  his  father  and  his 
mother  are  his  actual  guardians, 
protectors  and  providers  here  upon 
the  earth. 

I  have  a  great  deal  of  sympathy 
and  love  for  little  children,  and  I 
bear  testimony  that  the  Lord  loves 
little  children.  The  instance  related 
of  him,  where  his  disciples  would 
forbid  little  children  to  come  to  him, 
he  rebuked  them  and  said,  "Suf- 
fer little  children  and  forbid  them 
not  to  come  unto  me,  for  of  such  is 
the  kingdom  of  heaven"  (Matthew 
19:14). 

"Listen  to  the  words  of  Christ,  your 
Redeemer,  your  Lord  and  your  God. 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Behold,  I  came  into  the  world  not 
to  call  the  righteous,  but  sinners  to 
repentance;  the  whole  need  no 
physician,  but  they  that  are  sick; 
wherefore  little  children  are  whole, 
for  they  are  not  capable  of  commit- 
ting sin;  wherefore  the  curse  of  Adam 
is  taken  from  them  in  me,  that  it  hath 
no  power  ,over  them;  and  the  law  of 
circumcision  is  done  away  in  me. 

"And  after  this  manner  did  the 
Holy  Ghost  manifest  the  word  of 
God  unto  me;  wherefore,  my  beloved 
son,  I  know  that  it  is  solemn  mock- 
ery before  God,  that  ye  should  bap- 
tize little  children. 

"Behold  I  say  unto  you,  that  this 
thing  shall  ye  teach,  repentance  and 
baptism  unto  those  who  are  account- 
able and  capable  of  committing  sin; 
yea,  teach  parents  that  they  must  re- 
pent and  be  baptized,  and  humble 
themselves  as  their  little  children,  and 
they  shall  all  be  saved  with  their  little 
children. 

"And  their  little  children  need  no 
repentance,  neither  baptism.  Behold, 
baptism  is  unto  repentance  to  the  ful- 
filing  the  commandments  unto  the  re- 
mission ,of  sins. 

"But  little  children  are  alive  in 
Christ,  even  from  the  foundation  of 
the  world;  if  not  so,  God  is  a  partial 
God,  and  also  a  changeable  God,  and 
a  respecter  to  persons;  for  how  many 
little  children  have  died  without  bap- 
tism. 

"Wherefore,  if  little  children  could 
not  be  saved  without  baptism,  these 
must  have  gone  to  an  endless  hell. 

"Behold  I  say  unto  you,  That  he 
that  supposeth  that  little  children 
need  baptism,  is  in  the  gall  of  bitter- 
ness, and  in  the  bonds  of  iniquity;  for 
he  hath  neither  faith,  hope,  nor  char- 
ity; wherefore,  should  he  be  cut  off 
while  in  the  thought,  he  must  go  down 
to  hell. 

"For  awful  is  the  wickedness  to 
suppose  that  God  saveth  one  child 
because  of  baptism,  and  the  other 
must  perish  because  he  hath  no  bap- 
tism. 

"Wo  be  unto  him  that  shall  pervert 
the  ways  of  the  Lord  after  this  man- 
ner, for  they  shall  perish,  except  they 
repent.  Behold,  I  speak  with  bold- 
ness, having  authority  from  God;  and 


T  fear  not  what  man  can  do;  for  per- 
fect love  casteth  out  all  fear; 

"And  I  am  filled  with  charity,  which 
is  everlasting  love;  wherefore  all  chil- 
dren are  alike  unto  me;  wherefore  I 
love  little  children  with  a  perfect  love; 
and  they  are  all  alike  and  partakers  of 
salvation. 

"For  I  know  that  God  is  not  a  par- 
tial God,  neither  a  changeable  Being; 
but  he  is  unchangeable  from  all  eter- 
nity to  all  eternity. 

"Little  children  cannot  repent; 
wherefore  it  is  awful  wickedness  to 
deny  the  pure  mercies  of  God  unto 
them,  for  they  are  all  alive  in  him  be- 
cause of  his  mercy. 

"And  he  that  saith,  That  little  chil- 
dren need  baptism,  denieth  the  mer- 
cies of  Christ,  and  setteth  at  nought 
the  atonement  .of  him  and  the  power 
of  his  redemption. 

"Wo  unto  such,  for  they  are  in  dan- 
ger of  death,  hell,  and  an  endless  tor- 
ment. I  speak  it  boldly,  God  hath 
commanded  me.  Listen  unto  them 
and  give  heed,  or  they  stand  against 
you  at  the  judgment  seat  of  Christ. 

"For  behold  that  all  little  children 
are  alive  in  Christ,  and  also  all  they 
that  are  without  the  law.  For  the 
nower  of  redemption  cometh  on  all 
them  that  have  no  law;  wherefore,  he 
that  is  not  condemned,  or  he  that  is 
rnder  no  condemnation,  cannot  re- 
pent: and  unto  such  baptism  availeth 
nothing"  (Moroni  8:8-23). 

There  are  many  of  our  Latter- 
day  Saint  mothers  who  have 
mourned  the  loss  of  their  litle  chil- 
dren, and  many  mothers  have  felt 
that  they  themselves  had  committed 
some  great  sin,  else  their  little  ones 
would  not  be  taken  from  them. 
Now,  to  such  mothers  let  me  say, 
do  not  accuse  the  Lord  of  taking 
vour  little  ones  from  you,  nor  feel 
that  you  have  committed  any  great 
sin,  that  those  little  ones  are  taken 
from  you,  because  the  Lord  loves 
little  children  and  he  will  not  treat 
them  unkindly,  nor  without  mercy, 
for  through  the  blood  of  his  atone- 
ment they  shall  come  forth  in  the 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH. 


71 


morning  of  the  resurrection  with 
his  Saints,  and  they  shall  be  glori- 
fied according  to  the  works  they 
would  have  accomplished  in  the 
earth  had  they  lived.  I  have  great 
hope  and  great  consolation  in  the 
blessings  of  our  Lord,  in  the  prom- 
ises of  our  Redeemer,  that  through 
our  faithfulness  in  keeping  his 
commandments  we  shall  meet  our 
loved  ones,  and  especially  those 
who  have  left  this  life  in  the  time 
of  infancy  and  innocence.  Now, 
with  the  little  children,  the  Lord 
loves  those  who  keep  his  command- 
ments, those  who  obey  him  and 
render  faith  like  unto  that  of  little 
children ;  and  those  who  are  obe- 
dient to  his  commandments  will  re- 
ceive his  greatest  love,  and  his 
greatest  blessings. 

I  am  very  grateful  to  my  Father 
in  heaven  for  the  testimony  that  I 
have  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  I  know  that  my 
Father  in  heaven  actually  lives,  and 
that  he  will  hear  and  answer  our 
prayers  when  we  seek  him  in  faith 
and  in  humility.  I  have  a  testimony 
of  the  power  of  faith  in  the  earth, 
and  I  know  that  the  Lord  will  ac- 
cept our  faith  when  we  humble  our- 
selves, and  that  he  will  help  us  to 
exercise  our  faith,  that  his  purposes 
may  be  accomplished  in  the  earth 
through  our  efforts. 

Now,  there  is  one  thought  that 
comes  to  me  in  speaking  of  the  lives 
of  little  children,  and  of  the 
bereavement  that  is  left  in  the 
homes  on  the  separation  from  these 
little  ones.  To  my  mind  it  is  only 
typical,  and  perhaps  there  is  some 
sadness  in  it,  but  it  will  be  no  com- 
parison to  the  sadness  that  our 
fathers  and  mothers  will  partake 
of  when  they  come  forth  in  the 
morning  of  the  resurrection  with 
a  desire  to  meet  their  loved  ones,  if 


they  find  that  they  have  not  obeyed 
the  law  of  the  Lord  which  is  now 
being  administered,  in  the  holy 
temples,  by  the  servants  of  the 
Lord.  When  these  fathers  and 
mothers  discover  that  they  have  no 
claim  upon  their  little  ones  who 
have  left  them  in  this  life,  because 
of  their  own  disobedience  to  the 
law,  having  heard  and  known  the 
law,  and  never  obeyed  it,  then  will 
there  be  sorrow  and  weeping  and 
wailing  that  will  be  sorrow  indeed. 

With  the  moments  that  are  left 
me  this  morning  I  urge  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  the  sons  and  daugh- 
ters of  the  Latterday  Saints,  that 
we  honor  the  law  of  the  Lord,  that 
when  this  glorious  day  of  resurrec- 
tion shall  come,  which  we  know  will 
come,  that  we  may  hold  cla:m  upon 
our  loved  ones  in  that  glorious  day, 
through  our  obedience  to  the  law 
of  the  Lord  that  is  now  admin- 
istered in  the  houses  of  the  Lord,  by 
the  authority  which  God  has  placed 
upon  the  earth,  and  the  work  per- 
formed by  that  power  will  be  ac- 
knowledged both  in  this  life  and 
in  the  life  to  come,  both  before  the 
resurrection  and  after  the  resurrec- 
tion. I  urge  this  principle  to  be 
taught  in  your  homes,  and  to  be 
obeyed  by  the  Latter-day  Saints 
both  young  and  old,  and  I  bear  you 
my  testimony  to  the  truthfulness  of 
it,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  sang  the 
chorus  :  "My  pilgrim  staff  may  rest 
thee  here." 

Benediction  by  Bishop  David  A. 
Smith. 

The  conference  adjourned  until 
2  p.  m. 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


OVERFLOW  MEETING. 

An  overflow  meeting  of  the  con- 
ference was  held  in  the  Assembly 
Hall,  adjoining  the  Tabernacle,  at 
10  a.  m.,  presided  over  by  Elder 
Joseph  E.  Robinson,  president  of 
the  California  mission.  The  sing- 
ing was  by  the  Richards  ward  choir, 
Granite  stake  of  Zion,  under  direc- 
tion of  Leonidas  Fisher. 

The  choir  sang:  "Send  out  thy 
light." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  F. 
F.  Hintze. 

An  Easter  anthem,  "Christ  is 
risen,"  was  sung  by  the  choir,  the 
duet  by  Myrtle  Docile  and  Joseph 
Kjar. 

ELDER  DON.  B.  COLTON. 

(President  of  Uintah  Stake  of  Zion.) 

I  have  been  very  much  pleased, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  with  the 
spirit  of  this  conference.  I  have  re- 
joiced in  the  assurance  that  seemed 
to  be  in  the  minds  of  each  of  the 
speakers  thus  far  concerning  the  fu- 
ture. In  fact,  to  me  it  is  a  source  of 
great  joy  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  that 
there  is  a  spirit  of  faith  and  assur- 
ance concerning  the  work  of  the 
Lord.  I  am  convinced  that  without 
this  faith  and  this  testimony  the 
work  would  not  have  reached  the 
proportions  that  it  has  now  reached 
in  the  earth.  The  Lord  has  said, 
"My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his 
that  sent  me :  and  if  any  man  will 
do  the  will  of  the  Father  he  shall 
know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be 
of  God  or  of  man."  It  has  seemed 
to  me  that  this  spirit  has  character- 
ized the  Church  since  its  beginning ; 
and  so  today,  troublous  as  the  times 
are,  we  face  the  future  with  a  calm 


assurance  that  if  we  do  our  part  all 
is  well  with  reference  to  the  future, 
notwithstanding  perilous  times  are 
in  the  earth  and  men's  hearts  are 
quaking  within  them.  I  say  we  face 
the  future  with  faith  in  God's  work, 
and  it  will  triumph.  What  your 
particular  mission  may  be,  and 
what  mine  may  be,  is  of  little  conse- 
quence, so  long  as  we  do  well  our 
work,  and  trust  the  rest  to  the  Lord. 
Some  of  us  may  be  called  upon  to 
give  our  lives  even,  in  defense  of 
our  country.  We  have  been  will- 
ing to  risk  our  lives  in  defense  of 
the  truth,  facing  always  the  future 
with  the  thought  that  God  w'll  take 
care  of  us;  and  if  it  should  so  be 
that  in  the  performance  of  this 
work  we  should  lay  down  our  lives, 
we  still  have  the  assurance  we  shall 
rise  again.  The  Easter,  which  is 
now  being  celebrated,  means  to  us 
not  only  that  Jesus  of  Nazareth 
arose,  but  that  we  too  shall,  in  God's 
own  due  time,  arise  from  the  dead, 
and  that  in  the  future,  in  the  eterni- 
ties that  stretch  out  before  us,  we 
shall  st:ll  work  out  all  that  God  has 
planned  for  us  to  accomplish.  It  is 
a  splendid  thing  to  face  the  world 
with  this  faith.  It  is  a  splendid 
thing  to  face  the  problems  of  life 
with  this  faith.  It  is  a  splendid 
thing  to  know  that  there  is  a  great 
leader  watching  over  this  great 
work  and  directing  its  destiny.  I 
appreciate  this  faith  and  this  assur- 
ance. I  thank  God  every  day  of 
my  life  for  the  testimony  of  the 
truth,  for  the  knowledge  I  have 
concerning  his  work. 

O  how  beautiful  is  the  light  given 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints  !  Not  long- 
ago  I  was  reading  a  book  by  a  man 
who,  I  believe,  is  recognized  as  one 
of  the  leading  theologians  of  the 
day.  True,  he  accepts  the  doctrine 
of  evolution,  and  in  view  of  that  he 


ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON. 


73 


undertook  the  task  of  explaining 
the  soul  of  man  and  its  origin,  for 
he  recognized  that  in  his  great  treat- 
ment he  must  deal  with  man  as  a 
dual  character,  that  there  is  a  spirit 
within  man,  and  he  must  .deal  with 
him  in  that  light.  So,  he  attempted 
in  the  light  of  science  to  evolve  a 
theory  consistent  with  the  Christian 
belief  that  there  is  a  soul  within 
man,  a  spirit  entity,  a  being  that 
when  death  comes  lives  separate 
and  apart  from  this  body  which 
walks  upon  the  earth.  This,  mind 
you,  was  the  theory  of  a  learned 
man  who  had  spent  his  life  in  study- 
ing theological  and  scientific  prob- 
lems, and  he  said  man's  spirit  re- 
mains, and  his  theory  could  be  ex- 
plained from  three  different  stand- 
points. We  believe  consistently, 
said  he,  that  somewhere  in  that 
great  primeval  forest,  when  the 
monkey  man  first  stood  erect  and 
walked,  that  God  breathed  into  that 
monkey  man  who  assumed  the  form 
that  man  now  has,  a  spirit,  and  that 
all  men  descending  from  that  first 
primeval  parent  have  inherited  that 
spirit.  Or,  said  he,  it  is  not  incon- 
sistent to  believe  that  not  all  the  an- 
imal family  have  spirits  within 
them ;  that  only  those  who  begin  to 
think  righteously,  who  yearn  for 
eternal  life,  who  want  to  live  here- 
after, have  each  of  them  a  spirit 
within  them,  a  spirit  that,  in  some 
mysterious  manner,  will  live  after 
death.  Said  he,  there  is  nothing  in- 
consistent in  believing  that  the 
wicked  man  who  does  not  care  to 
live  hereafter  will  evolve  nothing 
within  him  that  survives  this  mortal 
existence ;  and  so  the  .doctrine  of  a 
limited  number  of  spirits  and  souls 
is  enunciated  by  this  learned  man. 
Or,  said  he,  if  any  of  these  are 
tenable,  it  is  easy  and  consistent  to 


believe  that  at  the  birth  of  every 
man  and  woman,  God  breathes  into 
their  body  a  spirit  that  lives,  except 
in  a  few  cases  of  idiots  who  do  not 
comprehend.  In  some  cases,  he  said, 
there  may  be  accidents,  whereby  the 
spirit  fails  to  enter  into  those  bodies 
that  are  thus  given  but  who  are 
lacking  some  of  the  natural  facul- 
ties of  man. 

When  I  read  this  learned  book 
and  compared  these  theories  with 
the  testimony  and  the  knowledge 
that  are  given  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  my  heart  went  out  in  thanks- 
giving, as  I  contemplated  our  belief 
in  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  glorious 
truths  revealed  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints  in  this  day  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith;  for  to  us  is 
given  the  testimony  that  we  know 
of  the  origin  of  the  spirit  of  man. 
We  know  that  we  are  children  of 
God,  the  eternal  Father,  not  in  any 
mysterious  way,  but  actually  the 
offspring,  a  spark,  as  one  has  put 
it,  of  the  eternal  blaze  of  the  eternal 
Father.  We  were  created  in  his 
image  in  a  natural  way,  born  of 
heavenly  parents.  Born  into  this 
earth,  we  live  and  die,  and  our 
spirits  return  to  the  God  who  gave 
them  life,  children  of  a  great 
Father  whose  glory  is  to  bring  to 
pass  the  salvation  and  eternal  life 
of  his  children  upon  the  earth.  We 
know  of  a  surety  this  great  truth 
that  man  is  of  a  dual  nature,  and 
that  there  is  a  spirit  within  him  that 
will  survive  forever.  What  a  splen- 
did thing  to  start  out  with,  a  knowl- 
edge of  our  origin  and  destiny,  that 
there  may  be  no  doubt  in  our  souls. 
We  advance  each  day  of  our  lives 
with  the  thought  that  we  are  indeed 
the  children  of  God,  living  as  he 
would  have  us  live  if  we  obey  the 
commandments  he  has  given  to  us. 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


What  a  splendid  thing  to  know  that 
our  course  in  life  is  accepted  of 
God ;  to  know  how  to  be  initiated 
into  his  Church. 

Do  you  know  how  many  there 
are  who  have  accepted  different 
forms  of  baptism  from  ours  ?  Some 
believe  in  sprinkling,  some  in  pour- 
ing, some  in  immersion;  but  most 
say  it  is  unnecessary.  God  has  re- 
vealed the  law  so  that  we  do  know 
the  way  to  enter  in  at  the  door  and 
feel  that  we  are  accepted  of  him, 
even  by  baptism  by  immersion  for 
the  remission  of  sins,  administered 
by  one  having  authority.  This  is 
assuredly  the  way  God  has  pointed 
out  for  us  to  be  members  of  his 
Church.  So  I  might  go  on  and 
point  out,  if  time  would  permit,  a 
number  of  other  things  upon  which 
the  human  family  are  in  doubt  and 
are  divided,  that  God  has  revealed 
to  us  so  that  we  know.  And  then 
last,  but  greatest  of  all,  God  gives 
to  us  an  assurance,  a  testimony  of 
his  own  life  and  love  for  us ;  and 
we  know  that  this  work  is  true,  and 
that  if  we  follow  its  teachings  and 
listen  to  the  leaders  of  this  Church, 
not  as  blind  followers  of  the  blind, 
not  as  i,gnorant  worshipers,  but  as 
enlightened,  God-fearing  worship- 
ers, we  have  in  our  own  souls  a  tes- 
timony that  "Mormonism"  is  true, 
and  that  if  we  live  it,  irrespective 
of  what  others  may  do,  God  will  re- 
ward us  with  eternal  life  and  salva- 
tion. 

There  are  trying  times  coming  to 
the  earth.  We  live  in  a  trying  time 
when  men's  hearts  are  quaking,  but 
we  calmly  face  the  future  with  an 
assurance  that  if  we  do  our  duty 
God  will  bring  us  safely  through. 
What  is  our  duty  at  this  time?  Why, 
it  is  so  plain  we  need  not  err.  "We 
believe  that  all  men  are  bound  to 


sustain  and  uphold  the  respective 
governments  in  which  they  reside, 
while  protected  in  their  inherent 
and  inalienable  rights  by  the  laws 
of  such  governments  :  and  that  sedi- 
tion and  rebellion  are  crimes  in 
every  citizen  thus  protected,  and 
should  be  punished  accordingly; 
and  that  all  governments  have  a 
right  to  enact  such  laws  as  in  their 
own  judgment  are  best  calculated 
to  secure  the  public  interest,  at  the 
same  time,  however,  holding  sacred 
the  freedom  of  conscience"  (Doc. 
and  Cov.  134:5).,  As  pointed  out 
to  us,  we  believe  that  this  govern- 
ment has  been  established  under  the 
direction  of  God,  for  a  great  and 
mighty  purpose.  We  believe  that 
liberty  is  one  of  the  inalienable 
rights  of  a  free  people.  It  is  our 
right,  it  is  our  duty  to  stand  for  the 
right,  to  stand  for  the  portection  of 
that  which  God  has  given  us,  with 
the  calm  assurance  that  never  will  a 
king  rule  over  this  land,  that  it  is 
a  land  dedicated  to  liberty  and  free- 
dom; but  it  may  require  acts  upon 
our  part  to  maintain  and  sustain 
that  liberty  and  the  blessmgs  vouch- 
safed unto  us  by  this  government. 
It  may  require  even  our  lives,  but 
it  is  our  duty  to  face  the  future,  to 
do  whatever  is  required  of  us  as  it 
comes  to  us  by  the  light  which  God 
gives  us ;  to  do  our  duty,  let '  the 
consequence  be  with  Him  who,  as 
we  know,  will  cause  this  his  work 
to  be  ultimately  triumphant.  We 
know  that  we  are  not  to  s:t  supinely 
down  and  do  nothing,  because  He 
had  made  these  great  promises, 
after  all  that  he  has  revealed.  The 
laws  of  the  gospel  we  cannot  refuse 
to  obey  when  he  has  given  unto  us 
covenants  and  marked  out  plainly 
our  duty.  We  cannot  sit  by  and 
say  that  he  will  do  it.     He  expects 


ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON. 


75 


us  to  walk  in  the  light  given  us,  and 
to  do  our  duty  well  that  we  may  be 
worthy  to  receive  his  glorious  bless- 
ings. He  has  given  unto  us  that  we 
should  preach  the  gospel  in  every 
land  and  clime. 

To  me  this  is  a  great  blessing;  it 
brings  a  spirit  of  thankfulness  and 
gratitude  that  in  the  gospel  I  can 
find  a  sweet  assurance  to  lead  me 
on  to  a  better  life ;  that  in  the  midst 
of  the  conditions  we  find  in  the 
world  in  the  forms  of  government, 
God  has  revealed  the  way  for  me 
to  walk  and  to  be  a  good  citizen.  To 
be  a  good  member  of  this  com- 
munity means  to  be  a  good  Latter- 
day  Saint,  means  to  be  a  good  mem- 
ber of  the  Church  and  kingdom  of 
God,  and  so  with  reference  to  the 
future,  with  this  assurance,  in  the 
words  of  the  poet, 

"Conquer  we  must,  for  our  cause  it  is 

just, 
And  this  be  our  motto,  in  God  shall 

we  trust." 

This  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, is  the  light  of  truth.  I  want 
to  seek  to  do  God's  will,  and  work 
out  the  mission  he  has  given  me. 

"Blind  unbelief  is  sure  to  err, 
And  scan  his  works  in  vain; 

God  is  his  own  interpreter, 
And  he  will  make  it  plain." 

Amen. 

ELDER  ALMA  MERRILL. 

(President  of  Benson  Stake  of  Zion.) 

My  heart  is  filled  with  gratitude 
to  my  heavenly  Father  for  the  priv- 
ilege I  have  of  attending  this  con- 
ference of  the  Church.  I  am  re- 
minded that  coming  to  conference 
is  becoming  a  habit  with  me.  I  be- 
lieve that  the  more  we  avail  our- 


selves of  this  privilege  the 
more  it  will  become  a  habit 
with  all  the  Latter-day  Saints.  It 
is  a  habit  that  we  should  acquire — 
going  to  meeting  on  the  Sabbath 
day.  We  commence  to  go  to  meet- 
ing on  the  Sabbath  day  when  we 
are  small  children,  because  our 
parents  teach  us  that  that  is  the 
right  thing  to  do,  and  as  we  grow 
older  in  life  this  becomes  more  and 
more  a  habit  with  us ;  and  this  be- 
ing the  case  it  causes  our  faith  to 
grow  and  increase  in  the  knowledge 
of  the  gospel  as  we  grow  and  ad- 
vance in  years. 

We  have  in  the  Church  teachers, 
who  are  required  to  visit  the  homes 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  As  our 
brother  who  preceded  me  was 
speaking  of  the  faith  we  have  in  the 
future,  my  mind  went  directly  home 
to  the  ward  teachers  who  are  re- 
quired to  visit  the  homes  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  once  every 
month,  to  teach  them  their  duty  in 
the  Church,  to  instruct  them,  to  see 
that  there  is  no  iniquity  among 
them,  that  nobody  is  suffering,  to 
teach  them  to  pray,  that  their  faith 
may  grow  from  day  to  day,  to  teach 
them  that  we  should  observe  the 
Sabbath  day  and  keep  it  holy.  The 
Lord  has  said  that  we  should  re- 
member and  worship  him  on  the 
Sabbath  day,  and  assemble  together 
and  speak  to  one  another  as  the 
Spirit  may  direct,  that  we  may  be 
edified  in  the  worship  of  the  Lord. 
We  have  assembled  together  on  this 
Sabbath  day  in  the  continuation  of 
our  conference  to  worship  our 
heavenly  Father.  To  see  so  many 
people  who  have  availed  themselves 
of  this  privilege  makes  my  heart  re- 
joice, and  I  rejoice  to  be  one  with 
you  in  this  vast  congregation,  and 
to  listen  to  what  the  servants  of  the 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Lord  have  to  say.  It  fills  my  heart 
with  joy  to  know  that  we  have  men 
inspired  of  the  Lord  to  teach  us  the 
gospel,  to  show  us  the  way,  to  mark 
out  for  us  the  directions  that  will 
enable  us  to  keep  ourselves  in  tune 
with  the  Lord,  so  that  we  can  walk 
in  the  straight  and  narrow  path 
which  will  eventually  lead  us  back 
to  life  everlasting.  These  principles 
have  been  taught  all  who  have  re- 
ceived the  gospel,  since  we  first 
heard  the  sound  thereof.  In  follow- 
ing our  leaders,  we  find  we  are 
walking  in  the  path  that  will  bring 
us  to  salvation  in  the  kingdom  of 
our  Father.  This  is  what  we  have 
sought  to  do,  for  we  have  a  desire 
in  our  hearts  that  we  may  gain 
something  in  this  life  that  will  be 
worth  while.  In  order  to  do  that, 
it  requires  our  whole  time  and  at- 
tention. It  requires  the  very  best 
efforts  that  we  can  put  forth,  so 
that  we  will  be  able  to  perform  the 
duties  and  labors  required  of  us  as 
Latter-day  Saints.  I*t  is  intended, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we 
will  seek  the  Lord  in  youth,  in  mid- 
dle age,  and  in  old  age,  that  the 
spirit  of  the  gospel  may  ever  burn 
in  our  hearts,  that  we  can  teach  it 
to  our  children — teach  them  the 
principle  of  faith.  We  find  that  it 
requires  faith  in  the  hearts  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  to  do  their  work 
— all  the  faith  that  we  can  muster. 
This  we  should  cultivate  from  day 
to  day  that  we  may  be  able  to  per- 
form the  duties  required  of  us,  as 
the  children  of  our  Father.  If  we 
continue  to  do  this,  we  shall  finally 
gain  an  exaltation  in  the  kingdom 
of  God. 

I  bear  testimony  that  this  is  the 
work  of  the  Lord,  that  Joseph 
Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God,  raised 
up  in  this  dispensation  to  establish 


the  work  of  the  Lord  in  the  earth, 
so  that  faith  might  be  implanted  in 
the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men. 
This  gospel  is  being  proclaimed  by 
the  humble  elders  and  handmaidens 
of  the  Lord,  who  are  preaching  to 
the  world  and  telling  them  that  the 
Lord  has  again  established  his  work 
and  is  calling  the  children  of  men 
to  repentance,  calling  upon  them  to 
turn  from  evil  and  walk  in  his 
paths.  We  are  sending  our  young 
men  and  our  daughters  into  the 
mission  field,  to  preach  the  truths  of 
the  gospel  to  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth.  During  these  troublous  times, 
there  are  not  so  many  of  the  elders 
in  the  field,  but  after  these  disturb- 
ing conditions  are  over,  I  presume 
there  will  be  a  call  for  more  elders 
than  ever  before.  So  we  ought  to 
be  prepared  for  the  great  future, 
because  there  is  something  for  this 
people  yet  to  perform,  because  the 
end  is  not  yet. 

May  the  Lord  bless  and  help  us 
that  we  may  be  prepared  for  any 
event,  and  put  our  trust  in  God,  so 
that  all  may  be  well  with  us.  May 
the  Lord  assist  us  to  serve  him  and 
keep  his  commandments,  and  may 
we  always  be  found  faithful  and 
true  to  the  calling  whereunto  we 
have  been  called,  I  ask  it  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 
"We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a 
prophet." 

ELDER  WM.  C.  PARKINSON. 

(President   ,of    the    Hyrum    Stake    of 
Zion.) 

To  me  this  is  a  very  trying  posi- 
tion, and  I  feel  almost  on  the  verge 
of  mental  collapse.  I  am  not  alto- 
gether a  stranger  in  this  position  of 
standing  before  the  Latter-day 
Saints  to  talk  to  them  about  the  plan 


ELDER  WILLIAM  C.  PARKINSON. 


77 


of  salvation  as  it  has  been  revealed 
in  this  dispensation ;  but  I  never 
stand  before  a  body  of  people  of 
this  kind  but  my  heart  is  filled  with 
fear  and  trembling.  I  really  and 
earnestly  desire  your  sympathy, 
faith  and  prayers,  that  the  few  mo- 
ments I  occupy  will  not  be  in  vain. 
I  was  born  and  reared  in  the  Church 
and  have  attended  general  confer- 
ences for  the  last  thirty-five  years. 
Some  people  say,  "I  guess  they 
could  get  along  without  you,  Broth- 
er Parkinson,  if  youdon't  go  down 
this  time."  No  doubt  they  could, 
but  I  want  to  say  it  is  a  very  hard 
thing  for  me  to  get  along  without 
them,  hard  for  me  to  feel  as  I 
should  and  keep  the  faith,  the  spirit 
of  the  gospel,  and  up  with  the 
times,  unless  I  come  closely  in  con- 
tact with  the  spirit  of  inspiration 
and  revelation  that  emanates  from 
the  prophets  of  God.  It  requires 
more,  perhaps,  to  save  some  men 
than  it  does  others,  and  I  feel  I 
ought  to  be  pretty  close  to  the 
powers  that  be,  and  to  the  things 
of  our  Father  in  heaven,  if  I  may 
successfully  resist  the  influences  of 
the  world,  and  maintain  my  stand- 
ing in  the  Church,  and  finally  win 
out  in  the  great  battle  of  life,  and 
obtain  the  reward  of  the  righteous. 
Perhaps  the  influence  that  first 
started  me  to  thinking  seriously,  the 
most  serious  impression  that  was 
ever  made  upon  my  mind  with  ref- 
erence to  the  restoration  of  the  gos- 
pel in  this  dispensation,  was  made 
in  what  was  called  the  Endowment 
House,  here  on  this  block,  when  I 
listened  to  some  words  uttered  by 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith.  At 
that  time  he  was  only  a  young  man. 
But  those  words  penetrated  my  soul 
from  the  crown  of  my  head  to  the 
very  soles  of  my  feet.    I  have  never 


forgotten  them.  I  made  a  resolve 
then  within  myself  that  if  God 
would  give  me  health  and  strength  I 
would  always  respond  to  the  re- 
quirements of  his  servants  who 
were  presiding  over  me.  So  far,  I 
have  never  refused ;  so  far,  I  have 
never  hesitated.  When  the  call  has 
come  to  me,  I  have  responded  with 
fear  and  trembling,  and,  I  think, 
perhaps  to  the  best  of  my  ability 
under  the  circumstances. 

Our  first  speaker  referred  to  the 
origin  of  life,  the  final  destiny  of 
the  human  race.  As  far  as  the 
origin  of  man  is  concerned,  the  final 
destiny  of  man  and  the  human  race 
and  the  purpose  and  object  of  our 
mortal  existence,  it  is  something  that 
troubles  me  but  very  little.  I  feel 
sure  and  satisfied  that  we  had  an  ex- 
istence before  we  came  here.  I  feel 
that  this  mortal  existence  through 
which  we  are  now  passing  is  a  mat- 
ter of  the  very  greatest  importance 
in  the  great  plan  of  final  develop- 
ment, I  feel  that  the  sphere  beyond 
is  the  reward  of  eternal  life  to  those 
who  are  faithful,  exaltation,  power, 
principalities  and  blesssings  and 
privileges  beyond  our  power  to  un- 
derstand. And  still,  there  are  many 
problems  yet  in  human  life  that 
have  not  been  solved,  but  there  is 
this  one  thing  that  I  am  absolutely 
assured  of,  and  that  is,  that  the 
God  of  heaven  has  come  to  the 
world  and  he  has  spoken.  Jesus 
Christ,  his  Son,  also  appeared  in 
this  dispensation,  and  has  given 
to  us  the  power  of  the  holy  priest- 
hood, the  authority  to  officiate  in 
the  name  of  God,  and  restored  the 
truths  of  the  everlasting  gospel, 
line  upon  line,  principle  upon  prin- 
ciple, here  a  little  and  there  a  little, 
until  all  of  the  principles  we  pos- 
sess of  the  great  plan  of  redemption 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


have  been  revealed  for  our  benefit. 

There  are  many  sacred  and  very 
encouraging  promises  made  in  this 
book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
that  should  be  a  source  of  comfort 
and  consolation,  in  this  period  of 
our  existence,  when  there  is  so 
much  trouble  and  sorrow  and  un- 
easiness in  the  hearts  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men  all  over  the  world. 
This  truly  is  a  time  when  men's 
hearts  are  failing  them  for  fear, 
for  something  they  know  not  what 
is  comirfg  on  them ;  and  if  during 
these  terrible  times  the  righteous 
hardly  escape,  where  shall  the  wick- 
ed and  the  ungodly  appear  ? 

The  Lord  promised,  in  the  early 
history  of  his  Church,  that  if  his 
people  would  keep  his  command- 
ments, he  would  fight  their  battles, 
he  would  preserve  them,  and  he 
would  take  care  of  them.  If  we 
keep  his  commandments,  are  we 
entitled  to  have  verified  to  us  these 
promises  that  God  has  made?  In- 
dividually perhaps  we  have  erred, 
gone  astray,  done  many  things  that 
are  careless  and  indifferent  and  out 
of  harmony  with  our  profession  as 
Latter-day  Saints.  But  I  am  grate- 
ful to  say,  and  I  find  great  consola- 
tion in  the  fact,  that  the  Church 
itself,  with  the  heads  of  the  Church, 
have  always  marched  on  in  the  line 
of  progress,  have  always  kept  the 
faith ;  they  have  never  forsaken  the 
principles  of  revelation  that  have 
come  from  the  Lord  in  this  dispen- 
sation. They  have  mainta:ned  them 
with  all  their  might  and  with  all 
their  strength,  from  the  beginning 
up  to  the  present  hour.  Thank  God 
for  that.  Individuals  may  not  be 
entitled  to  these  promises,  but  I  feel 
that  God,  our  Eternal  Father,  will 
not  forsake  his  people  and  his 
Church,  and  when  it  comes  to  the 
great  struggle  that  is  now  going  on 


in  the  world,  I  think  we  have  no 
fear  whatever  as  to  the  final  out- 
come of  this  nation,  of  this  govern- 
ment, or  the  destiny  of  this  nation 
and  this  government.  The  history 
of  the  past  has  been  pointed  out,  the 
various  events  and  conditions  be- 
fore they  occurred,  almost  as  clearly 
as  they  could  be  presented  after 
they  have  happened,  and  there  are 
predictions  yet  to  be  fulfilled  in  the 
future  that  are  just  as  clear,  and  I 
have  no  doubt  that  they  will  be  ful- 
filled also.  There  is  to  be  a  time 
come  when  the  Zion  of  our  God 
shall  be  built  upon  this  continent, 
and  the  law  shall  go  forth  from 
Zion  and  the  word  of  the  Lord 
from  Jerusalem.  Then  all  nations 
shall  yield  obedience  to  the  laws  of 
God.  Sometimes  we  wonder ;  I 
hear  men  say  who  profess  to  be 
Latter-day  Saints,  they  wonder  why 
our  prophets  are  not  having  reve- 
lations that  are  being  written  like 
those  contained  in  this  book.  How 
is  it  that  for  so  many  years,  reve- 
lations have  not  been  written  and 
published  to  the  world?  I  have 
long  since  come  to  the  conclusion 
that  we  have  all  the  revelation  now 
that  we  are  willing  to  live  up  to, 
and  a  great  deal  more,  and  I  do  not 
know  but  we  have  all  that  we  really 
need,  and  I  cannot  see  for  my  part 
the  necessity  under  these  conditions 
why  the  Lord  should  be  giving  us 
more  revelation.  You  must  remem- 
ber that  in  the  beginning  the  Lord 
was  dealing  with  a  boy,  with  a 
young  man,  only  a  youth,  unlet- 
tered, and  who  knew  nothing  about 
his  great  purposes  in  the  great  plan 
of  redemption  which  he  designed  to 
bring  about,  and  he  came  and  in- 
structed him,  and  sent  angels  and 
messengers  time  and  time  again  and 
taught  him  until  every  branch  and 
authority  of  the  priesthood  was  re- 


ELDER  WILLIAM  C.  PARKINSON. 


79 


vealed  and  bestowed  upon  him.  He 
came  and  gave  comfort  and  conso- 
lation through  the  revelations. 
Why,  a  prominent  man  scarcely 
joined  the  Church  but  he  would  go 
to  the  Prophet  and  want  to  inquire 
of  the  Lord  what  he  wanted  him  to 
do.  That  was  frequently  done,  and 
men  were  called  by  absolute  reve- 
lation to  do  this,  that  and  the  other. 
But  after  a  while  the  great  plan  of 
salvation  was  revealed,  the  organ- 
ization of  the  Church  was  estab- 
lished. There  were  prophets  and 
apostles  in  our  midst  who  had  been 
chosen  by  revelation,  and  they  were 
endowed,  with  power  from  on  high, 
to  bear  the  authority  of  the  holy 
priesthood  and  to  minister  unto  the 
people,  and  they  have  been  doing 
it  ever  since,  and  they  have  carried 
with  them  the  power  and  the  spirit 
and  the  mission  of  their  calling. 
And  if  we  would  yield  obedience  to 
them  and  listen  to  their  teachings, 
we  would  have  no  need  to  fear  for 
the  final  result  and  as  to  whether 
the  Lord  would  take  care  of  this 
people  as  he  has  promised. 

I  thank  the  Lord  we  live  in  these 
isolated  valleys  today.  I  do  not 
believe  there  is  a  better  people  on 
earth  than  the  Latter-day  Saints 
who  are  gathered  in  these  valleys 
of  the  mountains,  where  we  find 
greater  freedom,  greater  liberty, 
and  still  we  will  have  all  the  trials, 
I  imagine,  that  we  are  able  to  stand. 
We  are  to  be  tried  as  gold  seven 
times  purified  in  the  furnace. 

I  was  talking  with  one  of  the 
bishops  recently  with  reference  to 
the  reports  that  are  sent  in  annu- 
ally from  the  various  stakes  all  over 
the  Church.  He  called  my  attention 
to  the  fact  that  sometimes  even  gov- 
ernment officials  come  into  the  pre- 
siding bishop's  office  to  get  infor- 
mation with  reference  to  these  re- 


ports.    They  want  to  know  about 
the  death  rate  and  the  reason  for 
death,    and    something    about    our 
marriages  and  divorces,  etc.    They 
inquired,  he  told  me,  a   few   days 
ago  what  was  the  cause  of  death 
among  our  people,  whether  it  fre- 
quently occurred  from  venerial  dis- 
eases,  or    from   diseases    that  are 
recognized  as  being  caused  by  un- 
righteous living  and  by  impure  and 
immoral  habits  or  manner  of  life. 
They  were  surprised  to  learn  that 
there  was  scarcely  any  of  that  kind, 
scarcely  any  at  all.      Then   again, 
they  inquired  into  the  marriage  sta- 
tistics, and  found  very  few  divorces. 
I  do  not  suppose  there  is  a  people 
in  the  world,  and  especially  in  a 
land  where  it  is  so  .easy  to  secure 
divorces   as   in  the   United   States, 
that    have    so    few    as    are    found 
among   the    Latter-day    Saints.      I 
have  discovered  that  those  who  are 
married  in  the  temples  are  seldom 
divorced.     Most    of   the    divorces 
among   our  people  are  those    who 
have  not  been  married  in  the  temple. 
We  sometimes  talk  about  this  kind 
of   marriage.     We    refer   to   it   in 
speaking  to  our  young  people,  and 
we  advise  them  to  go  to  the  temple 
and  be  sealed  for  time  and  eternity, 
and  try  to  impress  upon  them  the 
importance  of  it.     Why,  it  is  the 
only  marriage  law  in  the  world  that 
has  been  revealed  from  heaven.    It 
is   the   eternal   order   of   marriage. 
Some  people    when  they    read  the 
great  revelation  found  in  this  book 
of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  132nd 
section,  imagine  that  it  refers  only 
to  plural  marriage,  when  the  fact  is 
that  it  refers  to  the  eternal  or  celes- 
tial order  of  marriage,  including  the 
plurality  of  wives,  which  has  been 
done  away.    But  this  celestial  order 
of  marriage,  this  divine  system  of 
marriage,  is  something  that  should   ' 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


be  taught  to  our  children.  I  am  al- 
ways grieved  and  very  much  sur- 
prised when  I  find  our  young  people 
drifting  away  and  marrying  outside 
of  their  own  people  and  outside  of 
the  temple. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
know  the  gospel  is  true.  I  rejoice 
in  it.  I  thank  the  Lord  that  I  live 
in  this  dispensation.  I  thank  the 
Lord  that  I  am  numbered  with  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  rejoice  in  the 
fact  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
came  forth,  and  had  the  courage 
and  the  manhood  and  the  spirit  to 
withstand  the  world,  and  bring 
forth  the  message  which  he  de- 
livered unto  us.  I  am  thankful  that 
the  priesthood  which  was  bestowed 
upon  him  by  heavenly  messengers 
has  been  handed  down  without  a 
break,  and  we  still  have  that  di- 
vine authority  and  the  right  to  act 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord.  I  could 
wish  we  might  act  more  intelli- 
gently, more  readily,  more  univer- 
sally, because  practically  all  of  us 
have  the  priesthood,  and  we  should 
use  it.  The  priesthood  means  ser- 
vice, and  there  is  always  plenty  to 
do.  It  is  hard  to  find  men  and 
women  enough  to  carry  the  respon- 
sibility of  presiding  and  helping 
others. 

I  have  enjoyed  this  conference,  so 
far,  and  I  have  no  doubt  but  we 
will  enjoy  it  to  the  end.  May  the 
Lord  bless  us  all.     Amen. 

ELDER  HEBER  C.  AUSTIN. 

(President    of    the    Bingham    Stake.) 

I  am  very  grateful  for  the 
teachings  of  this  conference,  and 
the  few  moments  that  I  shall  oc- 
cupy, I  desire  that  the  words  I  may 
say  may  be  in  harmony  with  the 
spirit  of  the  conference  and  the 
teachings    that    we    have    received. 


T  have  listened  with  a  great  deal  of 
interest  this  morning  to  the  testi- 
monies of  our  brethren  who  have 
spoken  to  us  the  sensible  and  prac- 
tical suggestions  concerning  our 
duties  as  Latter-day  Saints.  J 
sometimes  think  that  if  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  could  put  into  practice  in 
their  lives  a  very  small  percentage 
of  the  instructions  that  we  receive, 
from  time  to  time,  from  the  ser- 
vants of  the  Lord,  there  would  not 
be  very  much  the  matter  with  us.  I 
was  especially  impressed  yesterday 
morning  with  the  opening  discourse 
of  President  Smith,  wherein  he  was 
pointing  out  to  us  as  members  of 
the  Church  our  duties,  not  only  in 
the  Church  but  as  citizens  of  this 
great  government  of:  which  we  form 
a  part,  and  he  called  our  attention 
to  the  crisis  that  is  now  confronting 
this  nation  and  the  trying  experi- 
ences we  are  having,  and  he  tried  to 
impress  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints 
their  duties  to  God  and  as  citizens. 
I  was  reminded  by  the  remarks  of 
President  Smith,  that  good  citizen- 
ship and  loyalty  to  the  government 
does  not  consist  altogether  in  wear- 
ing the  uniform.  President  Smith 
called  our  attention  to  some  of  our 
temporal  affairs  as  Latter-day 
Saints.  He  endeavored  to  encour- 
age us  in  the  cultivation  of  the  soil, 
and  I,  being  a  farmer,  the  proposi- 
tion interested  me  more  perhaps 
than  it  would  some  others.  I  have 
always  been  engaged  in  the  occupa- 
tion of  tilling  the  soil.  I  was  im- 
pressed with  the  counsel  of  Pres- 
ident Smith,  and  we  know  that  the 
most  serious  thing  that  is  now  con- 
fronting the  nations  that  are  en- 
gaged in  th:s  deadly  conflict  is  the 
question  of  providing  food  for  the 
people,  not  a  question  of  winning 
battles  in  the  western  part  of 
France  and  other  places,  but  it  is  a 


ELDER  HEBER  C.  AUSTIN. 


81 


question  of  feeding  the  armies,  and 
it  is  a  question  of  feeding  the  peo- 
ple, producing  things  that  are 
necessary  to  sustain  life.  And  so 
seriously  have  our  brethren  viewed 
this  question  that  they  have  offered 
through  the  Trustee-in-Trust  from 
the  funds  of  the  Churah,  a  reward 
for  the  quorums  of  the  lesser  priest- 
hood, and  other  organizations  of  the 
ward  and  of  the  priesthood,  that 
they  may  enter  into  contest,  to  see 
which  organization  or  quorum  of 
priesthood  can  produce  the  greatest 
amount  of  food  upon  a  small  tract 
of  land.  If  I  remember  right, 
there  is  a  reward  of  $1,000  offered 
by  the  Church  for  the  Church  or- 
ganization that  can  produce  the 
greatest  number  of  bushels  of 
wheat  on  a  tract  of  five  acres  of 
land,  a  reward  of  $500  for  the  next 
greatest  number  of  bushels,  and  I 
believe  a  thir.d  prize  of  $250.  And 
similar  prizes  are  offered  to  the  or- 
ganizations that  can  produce  the 
most  bushels  of  marketable  potatoes 
on  an  acre  of  land.  These  things 
should  stimulate.  They  should  not 
only  stimulate  us  to  endeavor  to 
secure  these  prizes — of  course  there 
is  always  pride  in  the  contest  for 
superiority, — but  it  seems  to  me 
it  should  impress  us  with  the  fact 
that  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord  has 
admonished  us  to  be  industrious,  to 
cultivate  the  waste  corners  of  our 
farms,  to  more  intensely  prepare 
our  soil,  look  after  our  crops,  give 
attention  to  the  proper  seasons  of 
planting,  and  the  selection  of  the 
soil,  and  everything'  that  goes  to  in- 
crease the  products  of  the  soil,  so 
that  we  may  aid  in  th:s  great  work 
of  feeding  humanity.  Now  you 
know  we  have  become,  in  a  meas- 
ure, the  allies  of  some  of  those 
Euporean  nations.  If  we  are  not 
their  allies  we  have  become  engaged 


in  the  great  conflicts  that  they  are 
engaged  in,  and  their  troubles  will 
be  our  troubles,  and  we  should  see 
to  it  that  we  partake  of  the  spirit 
of  good  citizenslrp,  and  we  should 
hearken  to  the  counsel  that  is  given 
to  us  by  our  leaders. 

Our  brethren  have  said  this 
morning  that  in  the  counsel  of  the 
servants  of  the  Lord  lies  the  path 
of  safety.  Now  I  need  not  dwell 
upon  that,  because  the  Latter-day 
Saints  are  thoroughly  converted  to 
it.  If  "Mormonism"  stands  for  any- 
thing, it  stands  for  good  citizenship, 
loyalty  and  right  government,  and 
we  can  only  be  loyal  Dy  taking  these 
things  seriously  because  we  know 
not  today  what  tomorrow  may 
bring.  Some  of  those  who  are  the 
best  informed,  some  of  those  who 
believe  they  know  the  most  about 
it,  predict  some  very  startling  sur- 
prises for  us,  and  we  do  know,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  are 
confronted  with  a  crisis  that  this 
nation  has  never  been  confronted 
with  before. 

Now  let  us  assume  the  responsi- 
bility that  belongs  to  us  as  Latter- 
day  Saints.  Not  all  of  us  will  wear 
the  uniform;  not  all  of  us  will  go 
to  the  front ;  but  many  of  our  boys, 
many  of  our  young  men.  will  enlist 
in  the  army,  will  respond  to  the  call 
of  the  President  of  the  United 
States,  and  they  will  go  to  the  front 
and  fight  the  battles  of  this  coun- 
try, shoulder  to  shoulder  with  the 
young  men  of  other  states.  And 
there  may  be  a  place  for  us ;  there 
may  be  a  need  for  older  men,  we 
cannot  tell.  I  am  reminded  of  the 
patriotism  of  our  brother,  B.  H. 
Roberts,  and  of  his  willingness  to 
serve  his  country,  of  his  desire  to 
go  out  and  encourage  the  young 
men  in  their  duties  as  citizens.  Now, 
my  brethren,  let    us    observe     the 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


counsel  that  is  given  us  by  the 
Prophet  of  the  Lord,  and  by  the 
brethren  whose  right  it  is  to  coun- 
sel with  us,  and  let  us  live  our  re- 
ligion. Brother  McKay  yesterday 
delivered  to  us  a  powerful  discourse 
on  the  necessity  of  observing  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  that  we  might 
not  bring  down  the  standard  of 
manhood  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  Our  brother  who  has  just 
sat  down  has  spoken  to  us  about 
the  minimum  death-rate  and  the 
maximum  births  among  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  I  can  bear  witness 
with  him,  that  there  is  a  minimum 
of  divorces  amongst  our  people  who 
are  married  in  the  temple.  They 
seem  to  be  impressed  with  that  sa- 
credness  of  marriage,  to  the  end 
that  they  are  not  so  likely  to  become 
dissatisfied,  not  so  likely  to  murmur, 
and  they  are  impressed  with  the  di- 
vinity of  that  eternal  marriage 
covenant. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
let  us  remember  our  responsibilities. 
Let  us  observe  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom. Let  us  not  destroy  the  man- 
hood of  this  Church  by  engaging 
in  habits  of  dissipation,  the  drink- 
ing of  liquor,  the  use  of  tobacco, 
the  taking  of  tea  and  coffee  and  en- 
gaging in  those  things  that  the  Lord 
has  said  are  not  good  for  us  ;  and  if 
We  will  do  this,  we  will  be  blessed. 
We  need  not  fear  the  outcome.  We 
need  not  take  any  concern  as  to 
this  crisis.  We  can  face  the  future 
with  that  .degree  of  confidence  and 
assurance  that  the  Lord  is  with  us, 
and  that  we  are  his  people.  He 
has  guided  and  directed  the  affairs 
of  this  Church  and  this  people  from 
the  very  beginning,  and  I  have  all 
the  confidence  in  the  world  that  the 
Lord  will  not  desert  us,  if  we  do 
not  desert  the  Lord. 

This  is  a  great  and  a  mighty  work 


that  we  are  engaged  in.  It  has  for 
its  purpose  the  saving  of  our  souls, 
the  rendering  of  service  for  the  sav- 
ing of  the  souls  of  others,  and  if 
we  shall  be  faithful  and  true  to  the 
covenants  that  we  have  made  with 
the  Lord,  it  will  be  well  with  us.  I 
trust  that  we  may  have  the  disposi- 
tion to  keep  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord  and  hearken  to  the  coun- 
sel that  is  given  us  from  time  to 
time.  I  realize  that  this  is  a  great 
conference.  It  has  been  an  occa- 
sion when  our  brethren,  the  ser- 
vants of  the  Lord,  have  felt  more 
concern  for  the  salvation  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  than  usual.  We 
have  received  so  many  good  in- 
structions concerning  our  duties, 
and  those  things  that  we  ought  not 
to  do,  those  things  that  we  ought 
to  leave  alone,  and  also  those  things 
that  would  be  good  for  us  to  do ; 
and  if  we  will  hearken  and  let  our 
spirits  enter  into  this  work,  we 
shall  be  blessed.  May  God  grant 
that  we  may  have  a  disposition  to 
do  this,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.     Amen. 

The  choir  sang  an  Easter  anthem : 
"As  it  began  to  dawn,"  Myra  Baer 
and  Don  Priestley,  soloists. 

ELDER  JAMES  DUCKWORTH. 

(President  of  the  Blackfoot  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  Like 
you,  I  have  rejoiced  in  the  teach- 
ings of  this  conference,  and  can 
bear  testimony  of  the  spirit  of  in- 
spiration that  has  directed  all  of  the 
teachings  to  which  we  have  ii.it- 
ened;  and  while  I  stand  before  you 
for  a  few  moments  I  earnestly  de- 
sire an  interest  in  your  faith  and 
prayers  because,  unless  I  may  re- 
ceive that  assistance  which  cometh 
from  on  high  it  will  be  sureiy  im- 


ELDER  JAMES  DUCKWORTH. 


83 


possible  for  me  to  add  anything  that 
would  be  of  an  edifying  character 
to  you.  I  feel  keenly  the  responsi- 
bility which  rests  upon  me  in  hav- 
ing been  called  upon  to  address  this 
large  assembly  at  this  time  upon  the 
principles  of  life  and  salvation, 
though  it  be  but  for  a  few  moments. 

I  have  rejoiced  in  the  remarks 
which  have  been  made  here  this 
morning,  that  is,  I  have  rejoiced  as 
much  as  I  possibly  could  in  view  of 
the  fact  that  I  have  been  trembling 
every  moment  looking  forward  to 
the  time  that  I  would  be  called  upon 
to  address  you.  I  know  that  "Mor- 
monism"  is  true.  I  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  the 
living  God,  and  that  his  successors 
in  the  presidency  have  equally  been 
prophets  of  the  same  living  God. 
They  have  been  endowed  with  the 
same  divine  authority  and,  from 
time  to  time,  as  they  have  been 
called  upon  or  felt  impressed  to 
speak  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  they 
have  given  unto  us  the  mind  and 
will  of  God  the  eternal  Father. 

Reference  has  been  made  to  the 
fact  that  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  as  delivered  through 
the  teachings  of  the  Church  author- 
ities today  has  to  do  with  temporal 
things  as  well  as  spiritual  things,  and 
I  would  like  to  say  that  any  religion 
that  may  be  professed  by  any  people 
in  the  world  today  that  does  not 
teach  with  reference  to  temporal 
things  as  well  as  spiritual,  is  not 
worth  the  name  of  being  called  the 
religion  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

We  understand  by  revelation  that 
the  soul  of  man  comprises  the  body 
and  the  spirit  of  man,  and  the  Lord 
desires  to  save  the  soul  of  man,  and 
that  means  not  simply  the  spirit  but 
the  spirit  and  the  body  of  man. 

Some  years  ago  it  was  my  priv- 
ilege and  pleasure  to  labor  in  Aus- 


tralia as  a  missionary.  There  was 
a  gentleman  there  who  was  handed 
some  discourses  delivered  by  the 
general  authorities  of  the  Church, 
at  these  general  conferences,  and  in 
speaking  to  me  sometime  later  re- 
garding the  .discourses  he  had  read, 
he  made  this  remork :  "Mr.  Duck- 
worth, one  thing  that  has  impressed 
me,  with  reference  to  the  teachings 
that  are  delivered  in  your  general 
conferences  by  the  general  author- 
ities of  your  Church,  is  this,  that 
they  are  essentially  of  a  practical 
character ;  they  deal  with  the  every 
day  problems  of  life,  and  they 
are  not  related  solely  to  the  spirit- 
ual concern  of  your  people."  It 
made  a  deep  impression  upon  my 
mind  at  the  time,  and  I  have  often 
remarked  about  it  since,  that  the 
teachings  that  were  given  by  our 
general  authorities  in  the  gather- 
ings of  the  Saints  relate  to  the  tak- 
ink  care  of  the  body  just  as  well  as 
the  taking  care  of  the  spirit  of  man. 
They  teach  us  how  to  take  care  of 
our  bodies ;  they  teach  us  that  beau- 
tiful law  known  as  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  They  teach  us  that  we 
should  be  clean  in  our  bodies,  that 
we  should  keep  our  bodies  pure  and 
in  such  a  way  that  we  may  be  in  a 
fit  condition  for  the  enjoyment  of 
the  Spirit  of  our  Father,  for  he  will 
not  dwell  in  unclean  tabernacles, 
and  it  is  just  as  essential  that  we 
shall  keep  our  bodies  clean  as  that 
we  shall  keep  our  spirits  clean. 

With  this  teaching  also,  we  are 
impressed  with  the  fact  that  it  is 
binding  upon  us  that  we  shall  do  our 
part  in  saving  the  souls  of  others ; 
and  as  Latter-day  Saints,  if  we  hold 
this  gospel  to  ourselves,  seeking 
only  to  save  ourselves,  we  shall  not 
have  acceptance  of  the  great  mis- 
sion that  God  has  given  us  here 
upon  the  earth.   It  is  our  duty  to  so 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


live  that  we  shall  save  the  souls  of 
others.  We  are  surrounded  by 
many  that  are  not  members  of  the 
Church.  I  come  from  a  town  where 
four-fifths  of  the  people  are  not 
members  of  the  Church,  and  I 
claim  it  is  the  duty  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  living  in  that  town  to 
preach  the  gospel  that  they  them- 
selves have  received,  to  the  world ; 
and  when  I  say  preach  it,  I  mean 
not  by  speaking  of  it  only,  but  by 
living  it  in  their  every  day  life.  I 
want  to  bear  testimony  to  this  fact 
that  if  we  would  be  held  up  in 
esteem  by  those  not  of  our  faith, 
those  whose  souls  may  be  full  of 
prejudice,  if  we  want  to  preach  the 
gospel  in  the  most  effectual  man- 
ner, we  should  do  so  by  example  as 
well  as  by  precept,  exemplifying  the 
fruits  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
"By  their  fruits  ye  shall  know 
them,"  is  an  illustration  of  what  I 
refer  to. 

It  may  not  be  amiss  to  refer  to 
another  thing  in  my  experience.  A 
few  years  ago  an  old  gentleman 
who  had  come  from  Great  Britain, 
who  was  a  musician  and  had  set  out 
to  make  a  tour  of  the  world  to- 
gether with  a  young  lady  accom- 
panist, happened  to  stay  in  our 
town  for  some  weeks.  In  the 
course  of  his  visit,  my  wife  and  I 
became  very  well  acquainted  with 
him ;  and  on  one  occasion  we  in- 
vited him  to  our  home  to  spend  the 
evening  and  have  supper  with  us. 
At  that  time  we  had  become  habitu- 
ated to  having  our  family  prayers 
in  the  evening,  before  the  evening 
meal,  following  the  counsel  that 
was  given  me  by  President  Ly- 
man, on  one  occasion,  who  said, 
"we  always  have  family  prayer  be- 
fore our  evening  meal,  and  I  want 
to  counsel  you  to  do  the  same 
thing,  and  I  want  you  to  teach  that 


to  the  stake  over  which  you  pre- 
side." I  did  so,  for  I  have  always 
found  it  best  to  carry  out  the  coun- 
sels of  those  who  preside  over  us, 
and  who  have  the  right  to  give  us 
counsel  as  they  may  be  inspired  to 
do  by  the  Holy  Spirit.  President 
Lyman  said,  "if  you  wait  for  the 
evening  prayer  until  bed  time,  the 
older  boys  and  girls  may  be  out  at 
a  dance,  at  a  picture  show,  or  in- 
dulging in  some  other  form  of 
amusement ;  the  smaller  children 
get  sleepy  and  retire  to  bed,  and  the 
result  is  that  the  prayer  that  is  had 
may  not  be  a  family  prayer."  On 
the  occasion  I  was  speaking  of, 
when  the  meal  had  been  prepared, 
my  wife  beckoned  me  to  come  into 
the  room.  She  said,  "What  are 
you  going  to  do  about  the  family 
prayer  this  evening?"  I  said, 
"What  is  the  matter?"  Said  she: 
"Here  is  this  Professor ;  he  does 
not  make  any  profession  of  re- 
ligion ;  he  has  faith  in  a  Supreme 
Being  but  he  belongs  to  no  Church. 
It  may  be  very  embarrassing  for 
us,  if  we  go  right  along  with  our 
regular  custom  of  having  family 
prayer."  I  said  in  reply,  "If  he  is 
an  honorable  gentleman,  I  am  sure 
he  will  take  no  exception,  for  I 
have  absolute  faith  in  'Mormon- 
ism,'  and  I  am  not  ashamed  of  it 
before  any  man  or  woman  in  all 
the  world,  and  my  feeling  is  that 
we  should  go  right  along  as  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  no  matter  who  may 
be  our  visitors." 

We  returned  to  the  dining  room, 
and  when  the  time  came,  all  the 
chairs  were  turned  with  their  backs 
to  the  table.  I  spoke  to  the  gentle- 
man and  said,  "Professor  So-and- 
so,  you  understand  that  we  are  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  We  are  about  to 
participate  in  a  custom  that  has 
been  practiced  from  the  beginning 


ELDER  JAMES  DUCKWORTH. 


85 


amongst  our  people.  We  believe 
it  to  be  right,  and  that  custom  is 
that  before  retiring  to  rest  we  ap- 
peal to  the  Throne  of  Grace,  upon 
our  bended  knees,  for  the  blessings 
we  need  through  the  night.  We 
do  so  again  in  the  morning  before 
we  go  forth  to  the  labors  of  the  day, 
and  we  will  appreciate  it  if  you 
will  join  with  us."  He  knelt  down 
with  us  without  a  moment's  hesita- 
tion and  took  part  with  us.  He 
then  saw  that  we  asked  the  bless- 
ing upon  the  food.  After  that 
whenever  he  came  to  the  evening 
meal  he  always  took  part  in  the 
family  prayer.  Sometime  later  it 
came  to  about  the  time  for  him  to 
leave.  His  accompanist  had  not 
then  visited  us.  This  time  she 
came  also,  but  they  did  not  come 
until  after  the  evening  meal  had 
been  partaken  of.  We  spent  sev- 
eral hours  in  enjoyable  entertain- 
ment. When  the  time  came  for 
them  to  take  their  departure  we 
rose  from  our  seats  and,  to  my  sur- 
prise, he  walked  across  the  room  to 
where  I  was  standing,  and  he  held 
out  his  hand  and  said,  "Mr.  Duck- 
worth, before  we  leave  this  house 
I  would  like  to  make  a  request.  I 
want  to  leave  this  house  with  the 
same  good  spirit  that  I  have  al- 
ways felt  here,  and  I  will  appreci- 
ate it  if  you  will  allow  us  to  kneel 
with  you  in  family  prayer."  I  was 
overcome  for  the  moment,  but  as 
soon  as  I  regained  my  composure 
I  said,  "All  right,  we  will  do  so," 
and  we  knelt  down  just  as  we  had 
done  several  times  before  when  he 
was  with  us,  although  the  young 
lady  merely  knelt  on  one  knee.  This 
was  as  far  as  her  prejudice  would 
permit  her  to  go.  They  joined  with 
us  in  family  prayer.  They  left  Black- 
foot.  Sometime  later  they  came 
back   again,    and   as   the   result  of 


that  first  beginning,  they  became, 
and  are  today,  some  of  the  most 
friendly  investigators  I  have  had 
in  all  my  experience.  I  have  learned 
from  other  experiences  of  like 
-character  that  it  always  pays  to  be 
a  Latter-day  Saint  at  all  times  and 
under  all  circumstances  and  before 
all  people.  Whenever  we  become 
vascillating,  whenever  we  fail  in 
our  duty  before  others  we  always 
lose  in  their  estimation ;  but  when 
we  are  Latter-day  Saints,  consistent 
in  our  daily  lives,  they  think  more 
of  us,  and  we  all  preach  the  gos-' 
pel  in  the  way  that  I  have  indicated. 
May  the  Lord  bless  us,  that  we 
may  understand  and  appreciate 
what  "Mormonism"  is,  and  may 
we  have  his  Spirit  to  actuate  our 
lives,  I  ask,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 

(President  of  the  California  Mission.) 

With  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, I  have  rejoiced  in  the  testi- 
monies borne  by  our  brethren  this 
day,  and  I  know  that  your  souls 
have  been  uplifted  by  the  praise  and 
melody  of  song,  that  your  hearts 
have  been  centered  upon  the  things 
of  the  eternal  world.  One  of  our 
brethren,  President  Austin,  re- 
marked that  never  on  the  earth  in 
our  history  has  there  been  so  much 
concern  manifest  relative  to  the  fu- 
ture. We  all  appreciate  the  fact 
that  we  are  confronted  with  a  crisis, 
yet  the  feeling  of  equanimity  mani- 
fested among  our  people  is  most  ad- 
mirable and  praiseworthy.  From 
whence  does  it  come?  From  the 
conviction  that  we  are  the  very 
children  of  God,  that  we  have  not 
descended    from    any   anthropoidal 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ancestors — ourang  outang,  chimp- 
anzee or  any  kind  of  monkey,  but 
our  spirits  were  born  of  eternal 
parents  before  the  world  was,  and 
by  adoption  we  come  into  his  family 
and  kingdom  in  this  age  and  gen- 
eration. There  is  no  thought  nor 
care  manifested  upon  the  part  of 
any  other  creature  of  our  Father. 
He  shapes  our  destiny.  They  follow 
out  the  impress  of  a  superior  will ; 
their  wants  are  provided  for;  they 
are  suited  to  their  habitat  and  time 
of  living.  They  have  their  com- 
'  panions  and  their  natural  affection 
for  them,  but  aside  from  this  there 
is  nothing  in  them,  or  within  them, 
that  is  devout,  that  looks  to  God, 
that  has  a  yearning  after  immortal- 
ity and  eternal  life.  Aside  from 
man  there  is  no  comprehension  of 
abstract  truth,  not  even  in  the  most 
intelligent  of  all  our  Father's  crea- 
tures. It  remains  for  his  children 
alone  to  have  the  capacity  and  pos- 
sibility of  worship,  the  desire  to 
worship.  It  remains  for  his  chil- 
dren, let  them  be  ever  so  humble, 
the  barbarian  of  our  country,  the 
Hottentot  of  Africa,  or  the  so-called 
heathen  of  all  foreign  lands,  with 
the  Christian,  to  entertain  the  hope 
of  eternal  life  and  seek  after  it. 
These  impressions  come  not  alone 
from  the  emotions  nor  from  earthly 
things,  but  they  come  from  above. 
The  soul  finds  expression  in  praise 
and  song  and  prayer,  seek:ng  unto 
the  Father  for  life  eternal,  seeking 
to  know  how  to  live  and  how  to  do 
that  we  may  reap  the  crown  of 
eternal  lives.  The  wondrous  hymn 
so  beautifully  rendered  by  this 
splendid  choir,  betokening  the  res- 
urrection of  the  dead,  the  "first 
dawn  of  the  day"  when  Christ  took 
up  his  body  from  the  tomb  and  the 
angels  bearing  witness  that  he  had 
risen,  must  give  joy  unto  you.  The 


learned  savants  of  the  day,  who 
have  sent  their  boys  to  the  front 
"somewhere  in  France,"  have  been 
giving  time  and  attention  to  this 
fact,  "Does  the  dead  soldier  live, 
and  does  he  return  to  earth?"  Sir 
Oliver  Lodge,  Crookes,  Lombrozo, 
Stead,  and  many  others  of  the  rank 
and  file  of  England's  nobility,  en- 
gaged in  deadly  conflict,  have  each  ~f 
in  turn  given  their  testimony  to  this 
end,  that  the  spirit  of  man  does  not 
die,  but  is  made  alive  for  ever 
more;  that  the  soldier  dead  live, 
and  return  again  to  their  former 
friends  as  well  as  the  places  that 
they  have  frequented.  This  is  the 
testimony  of  the  scientists  in  face 
of  the  dread  things  that  have  come 
to  them  in  the  world's  war  today. 
I  want  to  bear  witness  that  the  same 
spirit  of  trust,  the  same  spirit  of 
hope  that  is  within  the  true  Chris- 
tian, permeates  those  who  are  here 
today.  So  it  was  with  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  when  earthquake  and 
fire  destroyed  the  great  city  of  the 
Pacific  coast.  There  was  a  peace 
that  came  into  the  souls  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  there  that  "passed 
the  understanding  of  men."  There 
was  no  hysteria ;  there  was  no  fear 
manifest  by  trembling  or  excite- 
ment, but  a  confident  trust  in  the 
providences  of  Almighty  God  that, 
living  or  dying,  all  was  well  with 
them.  I  saw  the  same  spirit  mani- 
fest when  four  thousand  people 
were  driven  out  of  the  republic  of 
Mexico.  I  heard  their  songs  on  the 
plains  of  Hachita  and  Columbus, 
and  in  the  city  of  El  Paso : 

"Though  deepening  trials  thr.ong  your 
way, 
Press  on,  press  on,  ye  Saints  of  God, 
Ere  long  the  Resurrection  day 
Will     spread    its    light    and    truth 
abroad." 


ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 


87 


"I  will  go  where  you  want  m.e  to  go, 
dear  Lord, 
Over  mountain  or  plain  or  sea, 
I  will  say  what  you  want  me  to  say, 
dear  Lord, 
I  will  be  what  you  want  me  to  be." 

Those  songs  were  sung  by  our 
good  people  under  strenuous  and 
pathetic  circumstances  with  the 
same  spirit  that  actuated  the 
Prophet  Joseph  when  he  returned 
to  his  friends  and  his  enemies  after 
he  had  set  his  face  to  the  west, — 
hoping,  perchance,  to  find  a  respite 
from  persecution  and  from  the  trial 
and  a  haven  of  refuge  long  denied 
him  in  the  east, — -that  spirit  that 
enabled  him  to  say,  "I  go  like  a 
lamb  to  the  slaughter,  yet  am  calm 
as  a  summer's  morning,  and  my 
conscience  is  void  of  offense  to- 
wards God  and  all  men."  Men  and 
women  who  hold  these  sentiments 
have  found  the  precious  pearl  of 
great  price,  and  they  are  not  upset 
nor  filled  with  doubts  and  fears  and 
misgivings  by  the  things  that  try 
the  hearts  of  the  men  of  the  world 
who  know  not  the  Christ  nor  have 
kept  his  commandments. 

I  want  to  speak  briefly  of  the 
lives  of  two  men  of  ancient  times. 
Solomon,  the  great  king  of  the 
chosen  people  of  Israel,  seated  upon 
his  throne  at  Jerusalem,  then  upon 
the  highway  of  the  commerce  of 
the  world,  between  Damascus  in  the 
east  and  Alexandria  in  the  west, 
or  the  Valley  of  the  Nile ;  whose 
ships  went  forth  to  all  marts  of 
trade,  who  gathered  the  precious 
things,  the  dye-stuffs,  the  rugs,  the 
spices,  the  silver  and  gold,  and  the 
precious  stones  of  all  sections  of  the 
world,  who  said  that  he  had  ac- 
quired more  wisdom  and  knowledge 
than  any  of  his  predecessors,  added, 
"It  is  all  vanity,  all  vanity  and 
vexation  of  spirit."     He  had  wan- 


dered in  his  old  age  after  false  gods 
and  strange  women,  and  the  spirit 
of  truth,  the  precious  "pearl  of 
great  price,"  had  departed  from 
him,  and  left  him  standing  in  his 
own  strength  alone ;  and  shorn  of 
his  hope  as  was  Sampson  of  his 
locks, — there  was  nothing  worth 
living  for,  and  in  his  bitterness  he 
wrote  that  "it  is  all  vexation  of 
spirit."  There  was  another  prince, 
the  greatest  amongst  his  fellows, 
whose  riches  were  greater  than  any 
others  of  his  time,  to  whom  God 
had  been  gracious  and  kind  until 
the  enmity  of  the  adversary  was 
aroused,  and  he  criticized  God  for 
the  care  he  had  bestowed  upon  Job. 
And  the  Lord  gave  Job  into  satan's 
hands.  He  took  from  him  all  of  his 
possessions,  all  the  things  that  men 
prize  in  worldly  affairs ;  he  de- 
stroyed his  brave  sons  and  fair 
daughters,  and  he  was  left  sitting 
in  the  ashes  of  a  once  happy  home 
clothed  upon  with  the  most  humil- 
iating of  diseases.  The  only  com- 
fort given  him  was  that  he  might 
scrape  his  diseased  flesh  with  a 
potsherd.  His  comforters  up- 
braided him,  that  he  had  been  un- 
mindful of  his  obligations  to  God; 
and  his  own  wife,  who  had  been 
given  to  him  to  comfort  and  cheer, 
turned  upon  him  and  said,  "Why 
do  you  not  curse  God  and  die?". 
Did  Job  feel  like  Solomon,  that  life 
was  vain  and  evil,  that  it  was  vexa- 
tion of  spirit,  and  that  "all  was 
vanity  of  vanities?"  No,  because 
of  him  having  taken  hold  of  the 
plan  of  life  and  salvation,  and  hav- 
ing in  his  heart  the  testimony  of 
Jesus,  he  said :  "Though  he  slay 
me,  yet  will  I  trust  him,"  *  *  * 
"for  I  know  that  my  Redeemer 
lives,  and  in  the  latter  day  he  shall 
stand  upon  the  earth,  and  though, 
after  my  skin,  worms  destroy  this 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


body,  yet  in  my  flesh  shall  I  see 
God,  and  mine  eyes  shall  behold 
him  for  mine  own  self  and  not  an- 
other, though  my  reins  be  consumed 
within  me."  Have  you  the  faith  of 
Job?  Have  you  the  faith  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith?  Can  you 
meet  every  condition  without  fear, 
without  asking  favor,  with  a  con- 
science void  of  offense  towards  God 
and  all  men?  If  so,  all  is  well  with 
you,  and  you  will  come  off  victori- 
ous. And  though  we  may  die  for 
our  country,  our  flag  and  religion, 
God,  out  of  the  maelstrom  of  war 
shall  bring  the  millennium  of  peace, 
when  Christ  shall  rule  and  reign, 
and  the  dead  shall  be  brought  forth  ; 
for  just  as  surely  as  Isaiah  proph- 
esied of  ancient  Israel,  "Thy  dead 
men  shall  live,  together  with  my 
dead  hody  shall  they  arise.  Awake 
and  sing,  ye  that  .dwell  in  dust ;  for 
thy  dew  is  as  the  dew  of  herbs,  and 
the  earth  shall  cast  out  the  dead," — 
just  so  truly  has  the  Psalmist  David, 
poet  and  king,  declared  that  his  soul 
should  not  be  left  in  hell,- — so  surely 
shall  the  dead  arise,  clothed  upon 
with  immortality  and  eternal  lives, 
and  then  shall  be  brought  to  pass 
the  fulfilment  of  the  scripture,  "O 
grave,  where  is  thy  victory,  O 
death,  where  is  thy  sting?"  All 
swallowed  up  in  the  newness  of  life, 
and  the  fact  that  we  are  God's,  and 
shall  be  his  forever  to  rule  and 
reign  throughout  the  endless  ages 
of  eternity  with  Christ,  our  God 
and  King.  With  him  we  shall  arise 
and  inherit  kingdoms  and  powers, 
principalities  and  dominions.  This 
is  the  ultimate  condition  that  will  be 
attained  to  by  those  who  love  the 
Lord  and  keep  his  commandments. 
No  wonder  that  he  who  entertains 
such  thoughts  strikes  hands  with 
the  Infinite,  and  does  not  fret  over 


the  mundane  things  of  this  earthly 
life. 

May  the  Lord  keep  us  in  his  love, 
and  finally  place  upon  our  heads 
crowns  of  eternal  righteousness,  I 
ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus.    Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem : 
"Lord  in  heaven." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  Newel  K.  Young,  principal 
of  the  North  Sanpete  stake  theo- 
logical seminary. 


OUTDOOR  MEETING. 

An  open  air  meeting  was  held  in 
front  of  the  Bureau  of  Information 
building  at  10  a.  m.,  Walter  P. 
Monson,  president  of  the  Eastern 
States  mission,  presiding. 

The  congregation  sang:  "The 
happy  day  has  rolled  on." 

Prayer  by  Elder  Francis  M.  Ly- 
man, Jr. 

The  congregation  sang:  "We 
thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet." 

ELDER  WALTER  P.  MONSON. 

(President    of    the    Eastern    States 
Mission.) 

It  is  indeed  a  pleasure  to  me  to 
have  this  opportunity  of  meeting 
with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
in  this  open  air  meeting.  If  the 
people  of  the  world  could  only  see 
the  splendid  audience  that  has  gath- 
ered today  to  receive  the  word  of 
the  Lord,  they  could  no  longer 
charge  that  the  Church  is  failing 
•in  numbers,  or  in  interest  pertain- 
ing to  the  doctrine  that  has  been  re- 
vealed. With  the  missionary  who 
is  in  the  world  and  with  the  Lat- 


ELDER  WALTER  P.  MONSON. 


89 


ter-day  Saint  at  home,  as  well,  we 
have  learned  to  regard  all  seasons 
as  summer,  every  place  a  taber- 
nacle ;  and  I  know  of  nothing  more 
glorious  than  to  meet  with  the  chil- 
dren of  our  Heavenly  Father  un- 
der the  canopy  which  he  has  spread 
over  our  heads.  I  sincerely  trust 
that  you  will  pay  close  attention  to 
the  speakers  and  remain,  although 
standing  is  tiresome.  Why  should 
not  the  Latter-day  Saints  stand  for 
an  hour  or  two  and  listen  to  the 
word  of  the  Lord,  when  we  expect 
it  of  those  who  are  not  of  the 
Church? 

ELDER  URIAH  G.  MILLER. 

(President  of  the  Cottonwood  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  most 
sincerely  and  deeply  crave  an  in- 
terest in  your  confidence,  and  your 
faith  and  prayers,  for  the  few  mo- 
ments that  I  shall  stand  before  you 
upon  this  important  occasion.  There 
never  has  been  a  time  in  my  life 
when  I  have  felt  more  in  need  of 
the  assistance  of  the  Spirit  of  our 
heavenly  Father  than  now,  for  I 
recognize  that  all  of  you  assem- 
bled together  in  this  great  audience 
have  come  to  conference  for  the 
purpose  of  receiving  some  word  of 
inspiration  to  take  to  your  homes 
and  carry  with  you  individually,  or 
to  disseminate  to  those  among  you 
with  whom  you  are  called  to  labor 
in  the  various  wards  and  stakes  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  realize  that  these  conferences 
are  of  very  great  importance  to 
you.  Those  who  attend  the  meet- 
ings from  the  beginning  to  the  end 
of  conference  realize  this  to  a 
greater  extent  than  if  they  attend 
only  one  or  two  sessions  of  the  con- 
ference. 


I  am  very  grateful,  personally, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  a  mem- 
bership in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  have 
enjoyed  a  great  many  privileges 
and  blessings  that  have  come  to  me 
as  a  member  of  the  Church.  Like 
many  who  are  assembled  here  upon 
this  occasion,  I  was  born  in  the  val- 
leys of  the  mountains.  No  doubt 
there  are  many  men  and  women  in 
this  congregation  who  received  the 
gospel  in  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
and  I  recognize  that  there  is  a  vast 
difference  between  the  men  and 
women  in  this  congregation  who 
received  the  gospel  in  the  nations 
of  the  earth,  and  the  boys  and  the 
girls,  or  the  men  and  women,  who 
received  the  gospel  in  the  organized 
wards  and  stakes  of  the  Church. 
We  who  have  been  born  in  the 
Church  have  practically  automatic- 
ally become  members  of  the 
Church.  Our  fathers  and  moth- 
ers have  been  interested  deeply  in 
the  work,  and  we  have  arrived  at 
the  age  of  eight  years  without  over- 
much knowledge  of  the  gospel.  We 
have  been  baptized  by  the  servants 
of  the  Lord,  had  hands  laid  upon 
us  for  the  reception  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  in  a  certain  sense  almost 
have  become  automatically  mem- 
bers of  the  Church.  Its  teachings 
have  then  rested  upon  us  as  we 
have  grown.  Years  and  experience 
have  brought  unto  us  the  power  to 
receive  deeply  within  our  hearts  the 
same  kind  of  testimony  of  the  gos- 
pel that  the  members  of  the  Church 
who  have  accepted  the  gospel  in 
the.  nations  of  the  earth  have  re- 
ceived. I  am  very  grateful,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  Jmow  that 
we  who  are  born  members  of  the 
Church,  so  to  speak,  are  placed  in 
a  position  by  which  that  testimony 
can  be  given  to  us,   and  are  also 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


able  to  say  and  to  know  beyond  a 
shadow  of  a  doubt  that  God  lives, 
that  in  this  day  and  age  of  the 
world  in  which  we  live,  he  has  es- 
tablished his  Church  upon  the 
earth. 

There  are  many  responsibilities, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  resting  up- 
on us,  as  members  of  the  Church, 
not  only  as  presiding  men  and 
women  in  the  Church,  but  as  mem- 
bers :  we  are  to  be  careful  in  our 
lives  to  set  before  the  world  an  ex- 
ample that  will  be  worthy  of  emula- 
tion, and  to  adopt  principles  that 
have  been  revealed  from  heaven, 
that  will  make  its  better  citizens  of 
our  country,  and  better  members  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  I  trust  that  as  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  we  shall  live 
worthy  of  the  cau5e  that  has  been 
established,  and  endeavor  to  over- 
come the  weaknesses  of  our  own 
flesh  and  the  difficulties  that  sur- 
round us,  in  the  way  of  temptations 
presented  to  us  in  our  various  walks 
and  avocations  of  life.  I  trust  that 
we  shall  endeavor  to  observe  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  particularly  to 
overcome  the  habit  of  using  cigar- 
ettes, tobacco  in  any  form,  and  in- 
toxicating liquors. 

I  am  very  grateful  indeed  to 
know  that  those  states  in  this  inter- 
mountain  region  that  have  not 
passed  laws  already  governing  the 
sale  of  intoxicating  liquors  will 
have  laws  go  into  effect  soon.  We 
who  are  living  in  the  State  of  Utah 
are  grateful  to  know  that  soon  a 
prohibition  law  will  go  into  effect 
to  help  us  in  conquering  the  liquor 
traffic  that  is  with  us  at  present,  and 
overcome  the  use  of  intoxicating 
liquors. 

In  my  experience,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  I  do  not  know  of  one 
thing  that  I  abhor  quite  so  much  as 


the  use  of  intoxicating  liquors.  All 
my  life  I  have  been  thrown  directly 
where  I  have  observed  the  effects  of 
the  use  of  intoxicating  liquor.  The 
misery  that  has  come  to  men  and 
women  with  whom  I  have  come  di- 
rectly in  contact  and  known  inti- 
mately has  caused  an  abhorrence  in 
my  soul  for  the  use  of  liquor.  I 
hope  that  the  men  and  women  who 
are  here  who  have  boys  and  girls 
will  use  every  effort  to  teach  them 
that  the  use  of  intoxicating  liquor 
is  detrimental  to  their  welfare  as 
well  as  contrary  to  the  teachings 
that  God  our  heavenly  Father  has 
revealed  unto  the  children  of  men. 
Misery  has  been  brought  into  the 
world  through  the  use  of  intoxicat- 
ing liquors  beyond  the  power  of  the 
human  tongue  to  describe.  No 
doubt  many  of  you,  my  brothers 
and  sisters,  have  witnessed  these 
things  in  your  lives.  You  have 
seen,  perhaps,  a  gray  haired  mother 
unfortunate  enough  in  her  life  to 
have  to  stand  on  the  door  step  and 
wait  for  the  father  to  return,  or  a 
son  who  has  gotten  away  from  the 
shadows  of  the  roof  and  come  in 
contact  with  the  influence  of  the 
world,  and  who,  before  he  returns 
to  his  home,  has  been  overcome 
with  intoxicating  liquors,  to  come 
home  and  fall  into  the  arms  of  the 
mother  who  has  been  tearfully 
praying  that  her  boy  would  not  be 
overtaken  by  that  sin  or  other  sins 
directly  connected  with  it. 

Temperance  is  an  important 
thing  in  our  lives,  because  it  builds 
up  the  individual — and  the  strength 
of  the  Church  and  country  is  as  the 
strength  of  the  individual.  If  we 
could  have  a  race  of  men  and 
women  who  had  never  touched  in- 
toxicating liquor,  who  knew  not  the 
evils  of  the  use  of  tobacco,  nor  what 
the  taste  of  tea  or  coffee  is,  how 


ELDER  URIAH  G.  MILLER. 


91 


strong  would  that  generation  of 
men  and  women  be  in  our  midst,  as 
well  as  in  the  nation  and  the  world 
at  large!  We  have  striven,  un- 
doubtedly, for  that  end,  and  I  am 
very  much  convinced  of  the  fact 
that  we  are  greatly  growing  in  that 
direction.  There  may  be  some  who 
believe  that  we  are  not  achieving 
a  great  deal  along  those  lines,  but 
personally  I  believe  we  are  gaining 
ground,  and  will  be  able  to  estab- 
lish the  truth  in  the  hearts  of  the 
boys  and  girls  with  whom  we  come 
in  contact  in  our  homes  and  in  the 
organizations  and  otherwise,  that  it 
is  not  good  for  them  to  indulge  in 
these  forbidden  things.  We  are 
able  to  convince  the  older  men  and 
women  who,  in  their  younger  days, 
adopted  the  use  of  tobacco  or  intox- 
icating liquors,  that  it  is  wrong  for 
them  and  wrong  in  the  sight  of  God 
to  continue  in  the  use  of  these 
things.  And  consequently,  one  step 
after  another,  one  effort  after  an- 
other, we  are  able  to  accomplish 
a  great  deal  along  this  line.  I  am 
led  to  the  belief,  as  I  come  in  con- 
tact with  the  people,  that  we  are 
gaining  ground,  and  that  the  Word 
of  Wisdom  is  being  more  thorough- 
ly established  amongst  us. 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  we  may  enjoy  ourselves  and 
have  the  peace  and  the  blessings  of 
the  gospel  of  the  Redeemer  within 
our  souls.  The  comforts  of  the 
world  are  great  blessings  to  have. 
I  believe  it  would  be  a  good  thing 
if  we  could  enjoy  the  riches  of  the 
world.  It  has  never  been  my  priv- 
ilege, thus  far  in  life,  to  enjoy  them 
to  any  great  extent,  but  as  I  come 
in  contact  with  other  men  and 
women  who  enjoy  the  temporal 
blessings  of  the  world,  I  am  con- 
vinced it  would  be  pleasant  to  pos- 
sess them.     But,  my  brethren  and 


sisters,  it  would  be  better  for  us  to 
be  in  rags,  at  the  door  of  starvation, 
than  not  to  possess  within  our 
hearts,  the  sweet,  peaceful,  direct- 
ing influence  that  comes  from  our 
heavenly  Father — that  gift  and 
blessing  of  the  Holy  Ghost  prom- 
ised unto  the  children  of  men  if 
they  would  be  obedient  to  the  laws 
and  ordinances  of  the  gospel. 

I  testify,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  God  has  again  restored  the 
gospel  to  the  earth,  that  he  has  be- 
stowed the  Holy  Ghost  upon  all 
who  have  obeyed  the  gospel's  first 
requirements.  The  Holy  Ghost  is 
given  to  the  children  of  men,  to  be 
a  teacher  and  a  comforter  unto 
them,  to  guide  them  unto  eternal 
truth,  and  to  assist  them  when  trials 
and  tribulations  come  upon  them, 
and  to  give  unto  them  the  peace 
and  the  happiness  that  their  souls 
crave. 

I  ask  that  the  blessings  of  God 
may  be  upon  us,  that  we  shall  be 
able  to  become  better  men  and 
women,  and  to  carry  out  in  our 
lives  a  little  more  closely  the  things 
which  we  have  covenanted  with 
God  to  obey.  I  ask  it  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.    Amen. 

ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY. 

(President  of  the  Deseret  Stake.) 

Notwithstanding  I  have  spent 
three  years  of  my  life  upon  a  for- 
eign mission,  calling  men  unto  re- 
pentance and  bearing  witness  to 
the  divinity  of  the  work  of  the 
Lord,  and  that  I  am  the  father  of 
fourteen  children,  one  of  my  boys 
being  now  in  a  foreign  clime  pro- 
claiming this  same  gospel,  yet  I  am 
undergoing  for  the  first  time  in 
my  life,  right  now,  the  experience 
of  speaking  to  a  congregation  in  the 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


open,  and  I  tremble  in  every  part 
of  my  body.  I  feel  and  sense  the 
need  of  help  and  inspiration,  and  I 
pray  that  the  Lord  will  he  my 
helper  and  my  inspirer. 

I  cannot  hope  to  rise  to  any 
heights  to  proclaim  the  beauties  of 
the  everlasting  gospel,  but  I  can 
express  my  gratitude  unto  the  Lord 
that  he  has  blessed  me  with  ears  to 
hear,  with  a  heart  to  understand, 
with  willing  feet  to  follow,  and  will- 
ing hands  to  serve,  and  has  im- 
pressed upon  my  soul  the  veritable 
fact  that  in  this  the  dispensation  of 
the  fulness  of  times  he  has  really 
spoken  from  the  heaven  and  re- 
stored the  everlasting  gospel. 

I  sometimes  think  that  it  is  im- 
possible for  us  as  Latter-day  Saints 
to  quite  sense  fully  the  wonderful 
facts  that  have  actually  transpired ; 
the  facts  that  the  Lord  did  speak 
with  Joseph  the  Prophet  face  to 
face,  that  he  did  introduce  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ,  and  invited  Joseph  to 
hear  him ;  that  he  did  teach  him 
through  the  ministering  of  angels, 
and  that  Moroni,  for  four  succes- 
sive years,  did  teach  the  prophet  as 
a  father  would  a  son — except  on  a 
greater  scale,  as  a  servant  from  the 
Almighty,  from  the  heavens  above, 
would  teach  one  of  the  children  of 
the  Lord,  to  prepare  him  for  this 
great  work. 

I  have  often  wondered  how  mar- 
velous it  must  appear  to  all  when 
they  think  of  this  wonderful  mes- 
sage. Though  the  prophet  had  lis- 
tened to  the  voice  of  the  Lord, 
though  he  had  listened  to  the  voice 
of  the  Savior,  though  he  had  been 
taught  by  the  angel  Moroni,  yet 
so  far  he  never  ventured  to  organ- 
ize the  Church.  He  never  ran  be- 
fore he  was  told  to  go,  he  never 
spoke  without  the  voice  of  author- 


ity. And  when  the  Lord  did  re- 
veal unto  him  that  the  priesthood 
should  be  restored,  and  when  he 
did  manifest  unto  Joseph  and  Oli- 
ver that  John  the  Baptist  should 
come,  then  what  a  wonderful  work 
Joseph  set  about  to  do !  Do  we 
appreciate  it  that  he  who,  at  his 
death,  carried  the  keys  of  baptism 
by  immersion,  that  that  very  being, 
resurrected,  revived  again,  should 
come  to  men  living  in  this  dispen- 
sation and  place  his  hands  upon 
their  heads,  call  them  fellow  ser- 
vants, and  restore  unto  them  the 
priesthood  of  Aaron,  which  holds 
the  keys  of  the  gospel  of  repentance 
and  of  baptism  by  immersion  for 
the  remission  of  sins  ?  And  that 
he  should  give  unto  them  the  prom- 
ise that  it  should  not  be  taken  again 
from  the  earth  until  the  sons  of 
Levi  should  offer  again  an  offer- 
ing in  righteousness  unto  the  Lord  ? 
Still  no  organization !  Then  Jo- 
seph waited  for  the  promised  visita- 
tion of  the  very  men  who  under  the 
hands  of  the  Messiah  himself  had 
received  their  commission,  Peter, 
James  and  John,  who  should  come 
and  upon  the  banks  of  the  Susque- 
hannah  river,  ordain  them  to  the 
Melchizedek  priesthood.  Then  they 
received  authority  and  power,  and 
then,  under  the  direction  of  the 
Lord,  the  right  time  came  and  the 
Church  was  organized.  Then  men 
were  commissioned.  And  that  is 
the  reason  that  we  have  the  cour- 
age to  say  that  there  is  no  other 
church  under  heaven,  good  though 
it  may  proclaim  itself,  having  the 
whole  and  the  complete  truth,  and 
the  authority  to  preach  it  and  to 
officiate  in  the  ordinances  of  the 
gospel.  That  is  the  bold  message 
that  we  deliver  to  this  world,  with- 
out apology,  for  when  the  Lord 
spoke  he  said  that  his  Church  was 


ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY. 


93 


the  only  Church  with  whom  he  was 
well  pleased. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
this  is  my  knowledge,  your  knowl- 
edge, and  that  which  enables  us  to 
carry  conviction  wherever  we  go. 
We  speak  in  no  uncertain  terms,  for 
the  Lord  has  spoken  to  our  soul, 
has  given  us  a  testimony,  so  that 
we  do  not  have  to  say,  we  hope,  we 
believe.  We  do  not  proclaim  a 
philosophy  of  men,  but  we  speak 
with  certainty,  and  say  that  through 
the  mercy  of  the  Lord  the  gospel 
has  been  restored,  we  bear  witness 
that  we  have  a  testimony  of  its 
divinity. 

Now  that  these  perilous  times  are 
upon  us,  are  we  moved  ?  are  we  dis- 
tressed? One  of  my  sons  walked 
up  to  me  the  other  day  and  said, 
"Father,  what  about  this  'Reply  to 
the  call  of  your  country'  ?  What 
shall  I  do?  I  do  not  want  to  be 
sent,  I  would  rather  go."  I  said, 
"My  son,  look  at  your  mother,  look 
at  your  father,  look  at  your  broth- 
ers and  sisters  and  all,  and  sense 
what  you  are  asking.  Then  do  not 
expect  from  me  that  I  shall  ever 
offer  a  word  of  discouragement  to 
you,  for  you  live  in  this  blessed 
land  of  liberty.  Here  we  have  had 
our  home,  here  we  have  had  peace, 
here  we  are  blessed ;  and  as  a  citi- 
zen you  must  answer,  and  answer 
understanding^  what  it  means.  Go 
if  you  feel  you  must  go,  like  your 
brother  abroad  proclaiming  the  gos- 
pel. Go  in  the  same  spirit,  if  you 
feel  it.  Go  when  you  are  needed, 
go  where  you  are  needed." 

Those  are  my  convictions,  this 
is  my  spirit,  this  is  my  feeling  to- 
day :  I  love  my  fellow  men.  In 
the  early  days  of  a  mission,  when  I 
was  in  the  Netherlands  and  could 
not   speak  nor   understand,    and    I 


had  left  my  family  and  all — when  I 
walked  the  streets  of  a  great  city 
and  looked  into  the  faces  of  those 
honest  people,  I  thought,  Oh,  if  I 
could  but  open  my  mouth  and  speak 
unto  you  what  I  feel,  deliver  unto 
you  the  message  that  I  carry,  how 
happy  I  would  be ! 

We  do  not  have  to  go  off  to  Hol- 
land, to  any  country.  Even  in  the 
stake  where  I  preside,  the  Deseret 
stake,  men  are  gathering  by  the 
hundreds,  thousands,  strangers 
within  our  midst,  who  have  never 
heard  this  gospel  yet.  I  commend 
unto  you  this  little  thought :  One 
man,  coming  into  our  midst,  sat 
beside  a  good  bishop,  and  a  good 
minister  said  to  that  man,  "Are  you 
letting  your  children  go  to  this 
'Mormon'  Sabbath  School?" 

"Yes,"  he  said,  "they  are  going." 

The  minister  said,  "Beware.  Do 
not  have  them  tainted  with  this 
'Mormon'  spirit." 

He  said,  "I  have  lived  beside  this 
man  and  watched  him  every  day 
since  I  have  come.  Whenever  I 
want  a  wagon  it  is  available.  When 
anything  is  to  be  brought  from  the 
store  to  the  country,  that  good  man 
proffers  to  bring  it  for  me.  These 
little  lessons  carry  conviction  to  me 
that  the  bishop  is  a  good  man.  I 
know  nothing  of  that  man  but 
good.  I  hear  nothing  from  my  chil- 
dren but  good.  Call  it  'Mormonism,' 
call  it  whatever  you  choose.  The 
name  will  not  affect  it.  The  fruits 
are  good." 

So  I  say,  our  mission  is  not  only 
to  proclaim,  but  to  live  as  witnesses 
who  have  received  the  truth,  and 
who  love  the  truth.  And  if  we  live 
the  truth,  my  brethren,  and  sisters, 
no  man  can  come  within  the  circle 
of  our  influence  without  being  im- 
pressed  with   the    fact — somewhat 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


after  the  same  spirit  as  the  disci- 
ples, when  the  Master  met  them  on 
the  way  to  Emmaus,  and  when  they 
walked  with  him.  The  Scripture 
says,  "Their  eyes  were  holden," 
and  when  he  came  in  and  broke 
bread  with  them,  then  they  beheld, 
and  it  was  revealed  unto  them  pos- 
itively who  it  was.  Then,  in  coun- 
seling with  them,  they  said,  "Did 
not  our  hearts  burn  within  us  while 
he  talked  with  us?"  So  it  will  be 
with  you,  so  it  will  be  with  me,  so 
it  will  be  with  every  man  who,  hav- 
ing received  the  light,  walks  in  the 
light. 

As  the  beloved  disciple  John  said 
concerning  Jesus,  "Ye  who  have 
received  the  light  walk  in  the  light, 
as  he  walked  in  the  light,"  and  his 
spirit  will  characterize  you,  and  its 
influence  will  be  felt  wherever  you 
go.  The  Lord  bless  us  to  live 
righteously,  and  living  so  our  lives 
and  good  works  will  be  seen  by 
others,  that  they  shall  be  led  to 
glorify  God. 

It  is  my  joy  to  bear  testimony 
that  I  know  the  truth  of  these 
things  without  a  doubt.  I  thank 
God  for  the  teachings  of  a  good 
father  and  a  good  mother.  I  have 
never  been  beset  with  doubt,  but  I 
can  stand  up  before  my  own  chil- 
dren as  my  father  did  before  me, 
and  say,  "I  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  you 
are  members  of  the  true  Church. 
Live  it  as  your  grand-father  lived 
it.  Live  it  as  I  hope  you  see  your 
father  live  it.  Live  it  as  sure  as 
the  authorities  of  the  Church  live 
it,  and  be  happy  forever  more." 

God  bless  us  and  help  us  to  do 
it,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


ELDER  ¥M.  H.  SMART. 

(President  of  Duchesne  Stake.) 

I  crave  not  only  your  attention, 
but  your  faith  and  prayers,  that  my 
words  may  be  seasoned  with  truth, 
and  that  my  strength  may  be  equal 
to  this  outdoor  meeting  occasion. 

It  is  said  that  out  of  the  abund- 
ance of  the  heart  the  mouth  speak- 
eth,  but  we  do  not  always  speak 
those  things  of  which  our  lives 
speak.  Sometimes  we  dream  of  be- 
ing full,  but  wake  and  find  ourselves 
empty.  And  so  some  principles  that 
may  be  nearest  our  heart  may  be 
farthest  from  our  active  lives.  What 
I  say  may  be  principles  that  I  should 
like  to  incorporate  in  my  life,  but 
in  which  I  find  myself  weak. 

The  preceding  speaker  announced 
that  he  is  the  father  of  fourteen 
children,  and  he  admonished  us  to 
follow  in  the  footsteps  of  our  fath- 
ers and  grandfathers,  and  so  forth. 
I  am  impressed  with  this  counsel, 
and  in  connection  with  it  I  remem- 
ber one  of  the  commandments  that 
was  given  to  ancient  Israel  and  re- 
inforced and  brought  forth  unto 
this  modern  Israel,  "Honor  thy 
father  and  thy  mother:  that  thy 
days  may  be  long  upon  the  land 
which  the  Lord  thy  God  giveth 
thee."  I  sometimes  think  that  we 
take  too  short  a  view  of  this  com- 
mandment and  the  blessing  which  is 
to  follow  obedience  thereunto. 

I  used  to  think  when  I  was  a  boy 
that  it  meant  that  I  might  live  long 
in  this  particular  life,  upon  this 
land,  and  be  possessed  and  blessed 
with  long  life  here;  but  in  later 
years  another  thought  has  come  to 
me.  It  has  come  with  the  thought 
of  my  dual  parentage,  one  parent- 
age the  Father  of  my  spirit,  the 
other  parentage  the  father  of  my 


ELDER  WILLIAM.  H.  SMART. 


95 


body — the  Father  of  my  spirit  and 
the  father  of  my  body  having  en- 
tered into  a  copartnership  in  this 
dual  soul  composed  of  the  body  and 
the  spirit.  If  I  would  live  long  upon 
the  land  which  the  Lord  my  God 
hath  given  me,  I  must  not  only  be 
obedient  to  the  father  of  my  fleshly 
tabernacle,  but  I  must  also,  and 
first,  be  obedient  to  the  Father  of 
my  spiritual  tabernacle. 

I  have  felt  that  the  very  founda- 
tion stone  of  happiness  and  pro- 
gress here  and  hereafter,  is  to  be 
in  harmonious  corespondence  with 
my  temporal  and  spiritual  environ- 
ment ;  and  the  first  thought,  the  first 
thing  to  be  discovered,  is  this  rela- 
tionship to  these  dual  fountain 
heads,  to  observe  the  harmony  and 
correspondence  that  I  should  hold 
with  reference  to  the  fountain  heads 
of  my  being.  When  I  have  recog- 
nized that  thought  in  the  spirit  of 
obedience,  I  am  in  a  condition  to 
honor  them  and  listen  to  their  com- 
mandments. 

The  Father  of  my  spirit,  through 
h:s  Son  Jesus  Christ,  using  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  as  a  medium 
of  communication  between  heaven 
an.d  earth,  has  given  unto  us  this 
mighty  principle  with  reference  to 
law:  "There  is  a  law,  irrevocably 
■decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foun- 
dations of  this  world,  upon  which  all 
blessings  are  predicated ;  and  when 
we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God, 
it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law  upon 
which  it  is  predicated. "  That  is 
written  in  the  law,  in  section  130  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 

Then  again,  in  Sec.  88 :42, 
the  Lord  says,  "And  again,  verily  I 
say  unto  you,  he  hath  given  a  law 
unto  all  things  by  which  they  move 
in  their  times  and  seasons."  All 
things !  That  embraces  man,  the 
animal  kingdom  at  large,  the  min- 


eral kingdom,  the  vegetable  king- 
dom. Further,  the  Lord  says  in 
connection  with  this  subject,  "Even 
the  earth  abideth  the  law  of  a  celes- 
tial kingdom,  for  it  filleth  the  meas- 
ure of  its  creation."  In  other  words, 
it  is  obedient  to  the  law  of  its  crea- 
tion, the  law  of  its  fountain  head. 
It  transgresseth  not  the  law,  there- 
fore it  shall  be  sanetified. 

Why  shall  it  be  sanctified?  Be- 
cause it  transgresseth  not  the  law  of 
its  being.  "Yea,  notwithstanding  it 
shall  die,  it  shall  be  quickened  again, 
and  shall  abide  the  power  by  which 
it  is  quickened,  and  the  righteous 
shall  inherit  it."  Who  shall  be  the 
righteous  ?  The  men  and  the  wom- 
en who,  like  the  earth,  recognize 
the  law  of  their  being,  their  foun- 
tainhead,  for  notwithstanding  they 
shall  die,  all  souls  shall  rise  again 
as  spiritual  bodies. 

If  we  are  to  live  upon  the  land 
a  long  time,  which  the  Lord  our 
God  hath  given  us,  we  must  abide 
the  law  given  to  control  our  being, 
just  like  the  earth ;  for  it  says  the 
earth  shall  be  resurrected,  shall  be 
redeemed,  -because  it  abideth  the 
law,  and  the  righteous  shall  in- 
herit it. 

God  has  given  unto  his  children 
a  code  of  laws :  faith,  repentance, 
baptism  by  immersion  for  the  re- 
mission of  sins,  by  those  who  have 
authority,  to  administer  in  the  or- 
dinances of  his  kingdom,  the  laying 
on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  the  law  of  tithing,  the  law 
of  consecration,  the  law  of  the  seal- 
ing ordinances  in  his  house,  wherein 
man  and  woman  are  sealed  for  time 
and  all  eternity,  and  all  the  various 
cardinal  principles  of  the  gospel. 
These  are  the  laws  of  our  being, 
unto  which  we  must  subscribe  if  we 
would  inherit  this  earth  when  it  has 
lived  its  law,  the  celestial  law,  that 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


we  may  live  upon  it  many,  many 
years,  even  until  the  time  when 
Christ  shall  present  it  unto  the 
Father  as  a  finished  work  in  the 
end.  Therefore,  we  recognize  the 
law  of  God,  we  recognize  our  spir- 
itual Father  as  we  recognize  our 
temporal  father — and  not  only  rec- 
ognize, but  feel  and  live  the  law. 
We  recognize  God  as  the  owner  of 
ourselves,  the  owner  of  this  earth 
form  that  we  are  allowed  to  live 
upon  and  cultivate,  and  bring  up 
to  a  high  state  of'  cultivation. 

With  regard  to  the  ownership  of 
God  as  well  as  the  brotherhood  of 
man,  let  me  present  a  thought  that 
came  to  me  when  I  was  presiding 
over  the  Eastern  States  mission 
many  years  ago.  I  remember  it, 
because  President  Monson,  who 
presides  over  this  meeting  now,  was 
there.  It  was  when  President 
Lorenzo  Snow  quickened  the  prin- 
ciple of  tithing,  that  will  redeem  us 
from  our  temporal  degradation  and 
save  us  temporally.  I  was  wonder- 
ing how  I  could  diffuse  among  the 
people  of  that  mission  this  principle 
of  tithing,  that  we  should  conse- 
crate a  part  of  our  earnings,  tem- 
poral blessings,  unto  the  Lord.  I 
was  sitting  at  my  desk  pondering 
over  this  principle,  and  I  turned 
to  a  hymn  that  I  had  never  noticed 
before,  and  it  went  through  me  like 
an  electric  shock.  It  revealed  the 
principle  of  the  ownership  of  God 
and  the  stewardship  of  man,  and  I 
thought,  if  the  elders  of  this  mis- 
sion and  the  Saints  can  recognize 
that  principle,  then  the  law  of  tith- 
ing is  easy — no  more  a  sacrifice,  but 
a  blessing  in  disguise : 

"The  silver,  gold  and  precious  stones," 
Thus  saith  the  Lord,  "ar.e  mine, 

The  cattle   on   a   thousand  hills 
I  own  by  right  divine. 


"The  forests,     rich-stored    mountains, 
plains, 

The    fertile    valleys,    too,  ■ 
The  earth  and  all  that  is  therein 

Are  but  my  righteous  due. 

"And  men  themselves  beLong  to  me — 
They  hold  from  me  a  lease 

Of  health  and  strength,  and  even  life, 
Which  at  my  word  may  cease." 

Then  why  should  men  so  much  desire 
To  seize  on  all  they  see — 

Cheat,  covet,  and  appropriate, 
To   self   so   greedily? 

The  Saints  have  learned  a  purer  faith; 

They  own  the  Lord's  just  claim; 
They're     stewards     o'er     what     they 
possess, 

And  hold  it  in  his  name. 

Their  flocks  and  herds  and  lands  and 
wealth, 
Their  wives  and  children  dear, 
Their   all,    themselves,    they   bring   to 
him; 
Thus  they  his  rights  revere. 

I  want  to  say  to  this  congrega- 
tion that  if  we  will  recognize  the 
ownership  of  God  our  eternal 
Father,  the  author  of  our  spirits, 
and  recognize  and  honor  our  earth- 
ly fathers,  even  back  to  father 
Adam — recognize  them  in  their  re- 
spective spheres,  in  their  ownership, 
and  remember  that  Latter-day 
Saints  never  become  of  age,  know 
not  the  year  of  twenty-one — and 
that  through  the  endless  ages  of 
eternity  we  are  our  spiritual  Fath- 
er's children  and  our  temporal 
father's.  All  that  we  do  brings  dis- 
honor to  their  names,  or  honor  to 
them  in  our  rigtheous  obedience  to 
law,  and  will  exalt  us  in  the  king- 
dom of  our  God. 

Th:s  is  the  end  of  the  keeping  of 
the  law  pertaining  unto  our  tem- 
poral and  spiritual  beings.  May  God 
enable  us  to  keep  the  laws  he  has 
given  unto  us.  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.     Amen. 


ELDER  LARS  P.  OVESON. 


97 


ELDER  LARS  P.  OVESON. 

(President  of  the  Emery  Stake.) 

My  beloved  Brethren  and  Sisters 
and  Friends:  I  rejoice  exceedingly 
this  morning  in  having  the  privilege 
of  meeting  with  you  in  this  open  air 
meeting,  not  that  I  covet  the  place 
that  I  occupy  at  the  present  time, 
for  I  can  assure  you,  like  one  of 
the  former  speakers,  that  I  tremble 
in  every  part  of  my  being,  but  I  do 
rejoice  in  the  testimony  of  the  gos- 
pel of  the  Son  of  God,  in  having 
membership  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  in 
being  associated  with  the  people  of 
God. 

When  I  look  upon  this  vast  con- 
gregation, realizing  that  that  Tab- 
ernacle is  full  to  overflowing,  that 
the  Assembly  Hall  likewise  is 
crowded,  it  tells  me  that  the  Church 
of  Christ  is  growing,  that  we  are 
increasing  in  numbers.  When  I 
first  set  foot  in  Salt  Lake  valley  as 
a  little  boy,  Salt  Lake  City  was  then 
as  one  of  our  villages  is  now  out 
in  the  country.  In  the  few  years 
that  have  passed,  it  has  grown  to 
be  a  mighty  city  that  is  envied  by 
people  in  all  parts  of  the  world.  Our 
desert  country  has  been  made  to 
blossom  as  a  rose.  Towns,  villages, 
and  cities  have  sprung  up  in  the 
various  parts  of  this  intermountain 
region. 

When  I  look  upon  this  picture, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  realize 
that  it  is  the  outgrowth  of  the  work 
of  the  Lord,  and  that  magnificent 
organization  which  was  effected 
eighty-seven  years  ago  last  Friday, 
with  only  six  members,  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  an  instrument  in  the 
hands  of  God  in  organizing  this 
great  and  mighty  work,  which  has 
grown  and  increased  until  it  has 
become  one  of  the  great  common- 


wealths of  the  world,  it  gives  me 
joy  to  realize  what  the  Lord  is  do- 
ing for  his  people ! 

It  is  not  only  the  people  gathered 
here  in  the  valleys  of  the  mountains, 
from  Canada  to  Mexico,  from  Cali- 
fornia on  the  west  to  Colorado  on 
the  east,  but  in  the  foreign  mission 
fields  scattered  abroad  in  the  earth. 
When  we  realize  that  there  are 
more  than  75,000  members  of  the 
Church  scattered  in  the  foreign 
mission  fields  of  the  world,  and 
when  we  see  the  records  that  come 
to  us  of  the  work  that  is  being  ac- 
complished in  the  mission  fields,  the 
faithful  Saints  scattered  abroad  in 
the  world,  it  sometimes  makes  me 
wonder  if  we,  the  Church  assem- 
bled here  in  the  valleys  of  the 
mountains,  could  not  take  a  lesson 
from  the  scattered  Saints  in  the 
nations  of  the  earth. 

I  observed  recently,  in  a  bulletin 
sent  from  the  Presiding  Bishop's 
office  to  the  various  stakes  of  Zion, 
stating  to  some  extent  the  work  be- 
ing accomplished  in  the  mission 
field  and  the  faithfulness  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  that  the  tithing 
being  paid  by  the  Saints  in  the  mis- 
sion fields  sets  a  pattern  for  some 
of  us  here  in  the  valleys  of  the 
mountains.  When  I  realize  that  in 
one  of  the  mission  fields  more  than 
$9  per  capita  had  been  paid  by  the 
people  in  that  condition,  I  could  not 
help  but  realize  that  it  set  an  ex- 
ample for  the  Saints  in  my  stake  of 
Zion,  and  I  believe  in  many  others. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the  gos- 
pel has  been  revealed  for  the  salva- 
tion of  the  human  family.  The  Lord 
has  been  merciful  and  kind  to  his 
children,  has  offered  unto  us  a  plan 
whereby  we  may  eventually  return 
into  his  presence,  may  prepare  our- 
selves to  go  back  and  .enjoy  that 
glory  and  exaltation  which  he  has 


98 


General  conference. 


in  store  for  his  children.  He  has 
gathered  this  people  from  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth,  has  taken  us  one 
of  a  city  and  two  of  a  family,  and 
we  have  been  gathered  here  in  this 
goodly  land.  Today,  when  we  look 
at  the  conditions  surrounding  us  in 
the  European  nations  and  in  the 
countries  of  the  world,  we  must  ac- 
knowledge that  we  are  in  the  most 
favored  spot  upon  all  the  face  of  the 
earth,  here  in  the  tops  of  these 
mountains,  a  place  of  safety,  of 
refuge,  where  we  enjoy  peace  and 
happiness,  where  we  can  enjoy 
prosperity. 

This  has  all  come  to  us,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  through  the  bless- 
ings of  the  gospel.  What  manner 
of  people  should  we  be?  How 
should  we  appreciate  these  favors 
that  the  Lord  has  so  abundantly 
given  us?  Does  it  not  behoove  us 
to  be  faithful  and  true  to  every 
covenant  that  we  have  made  with 
our  Heavenly  Father?  to  observe 
to  the  best  of  our  ability  every  law 
and  requirement  that  has  been 
made  of  us?  We  must  acknowl- 
edge that  they  have  all  been  given 
not  for  the  Lord's  benefit,  but  for 
us  his  children,  for  our  develop- 
ment, advancement,  growth,  that  we 
may  prepare  and  qualify  ourselves 
here  in  this  school  of  experience, 
in  this  mortal  state,  in  this  proba- 
tion, to  go  back  and  enjoy  his  glory, 
his  presence,  and  the  happiness 
that  will  come  to  those  who  are 
faithful  and  true. 

I  do  not  desire,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  take  up  your  time  any 
further  this  morning,  but  I  have  a 
testimony  of  the  truthfulness  of  the 
gospel,  and  I  thank  God  for  it,  and 
I  desire  to  lift  my  voice  whenever 
an  opportunity  is  given  to  me,  to 
bear  that  testimony  to  mankind,  for 
I  know  that  the  Lord  lives,  I  know 


that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  he  is 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  I  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet,  and 
that  we  see  before  us  every  .day  of 
our  lives  the  fruits  of  his  great  mis- 
sion and  ministry  upon  the  earth.  I 
know  that  the  servants  of  the  Lord 
who  have  the  control  and  who  di- 
rect the  Church  at  the  present  time 
are  men  of  God,  and  I  can  testify 
to  you  of  the  truthfulness  of  the 
statements  that  were  made  yester- 
day in  our  meetings,  that  they  are 
men  of  honor,  of  integrity,  men  of 
faith ;  and  if  we  will  hearken  unto 
their  counsels  and  admonitions  from 
time  to  time,  we  will  prosper  and 
increase  both  spiritually  and  tem- 
porally. 

That  the  blessings  of  the  Lord 
will  continue  to  be  over  us,  and  that 
the  spirit  of  peace  and  of  love  and 
of  harmony  may  grow  and  increase 
in  the  midst  of  the  Latter-.day 
Saints,  is  my  humble  prayer,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.     Amen. 

ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON. 

(Assistant  Church  Historian.) 

This  is  perhaps  the  first  time  in 
the  history  of  the  Church  that  a 
president  of  the  Eastern  States 
mission  has  presided  over  a  general 
meeting  at  the  headquarters  of  the 
Church.  It  brings  to  our  remem- 
brance the  infancy  of  the  Church 
and  the  thought  that  in  the  Eastern 
State?  was  the  cradle  of  "Mormon- 
ism,"  and  that  we  have  presiding 
over  this  meeting,  today,  a  man 
who  in  the  presidency  of  a  mission 
succeeds  such  distinguished  per- 
sonages as  Brigham  Young,  Wil- 
ford  Woodruff,  John  Taylor,  Par- 
ley P.  Pratt,  Orson  Pratt,  Samuel 
Brannan  and  a  number  of  other 
prominent  men,   who  at  one   time 


ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON. 


99 


or  another  have  presided  over  the 
Eastern  States  mission. 

We  will  remember  that  it  is  with- 
in the  present  boundaries  of  that 
mission  that  the  so-called  "Mor- 
mon" hill,  the  Hill  Cumorah,  is  lo- 
cated, and  that  the  Church  was  or- 
ganized in  that  region  of  country 
eighty-seven  years  ago ;  it  was  also 
in  these  eastern  lands  that  John  the 
Baptist,  and  Peter,  James  and  John 
appeared  and  gave  to  us  the  holy 
priesthood. 

It  may  be  proper  for  me  to  call 
your  attention  to  what  the  Eastern 
states  .did  for  the  Church  at  an 
early  date.  When  I  mention  the 
state  of  Vermont,  you  will,  of 
course,  remember  that  Joseph 
Smith  the  prophet  and  his  brothers 
Hyrum  Smith  and  Samuel  H.  Smith 
were  born  there,  and  so  also  were 
the  late  Presidents  Brigham  Young 
and  Heber  C.  Kimball.  There  were 
many  natives  of  Vermont  who  be- 
came very  prominent  factors  in  this 
Church  and  helped  indirectly  to  lay 
the  foundation  of  this  great  com- 
monwealth in  the  valleys  of  the 
mountains.  Did  you  ever  think  of 
such  men  as  Newel  K.  Whitney 
(one  of  the  first  bishops  of  the 
Church),  Apostles  Luke  S.  John- 
son, Wm.  Smith,  Lyman  E.  John- 
son, Albert  Carrington,  Erastus 
Snow,  Hyrum  Page  (one  of  the 
eight  witnesses  to  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon), and  others  who  first  saw  day- 
light, so  far  as  life  in  mortality  is 
concerned,  in  the  Green  Mountain 
State? 

Then,  when  you  think  of  the  state 
of  Massachusetts  you  can  remem- 
ber such  men  as  Thos.  B.  Marsh, 
Willard  Richards,  Chas.  C.  Rich, 
Ezra  T.  Benson,  John  F.  Boynton, 
and  Franklin  D.  Richards,  all  of 
whom  are  prominently  known  in 
Church  history.    You  can  also  think 


of  the  first  patriarch  of  the  Church, 
Joseph  Smith,  Sen.,  and  Bishop  Ed- 
ward Partridge,  who  were  natives 
of  the  state  of  Massachusetts. 

Next  you  can  think  of  the  state 
of  Connecticut  for  Wilfor.d  Wood- 
ruff and  Orson  Hyde,  and  you  think 
of  New  Hampshire  in  connection 
with  Amasa  M.  Lyman  and  Patri- 
arch John  Smith  who  were  born  in 
that  state. 

Let  me  next  draw  your  attention 
to  the  state  of  New  York,  where 
such  men  as  Oliver  Cowdery,  Peter 
Whitmer,  Jun.,  and  Martin  Harris 
(all  witnesses  to  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon) were  born.  You  can  then  call 
to  mind  Apostles  Lyman  Wight, 
John  E.  Page,  David  W.  Patten 
(the  first  prominent  martyr  in  the 
Church  in  this  dispensation),  Par- 
ley P.  Pratt,  Geo.  A.  Smith,  Orson 
Pratt,  Jedediah  M.  Grant  and 
Daniel  H.  Wells,  who  were  all  born 
in  the  great  Empire  state. 

If  you  cross  over  the  boundary 
line  into  Pennsylvania,  you  are  led 
to  think  of  Sidney  Rigdon,  Bishop 
Edward  Hunter,  and  such  witnesses 
to  the  Book  of  Mormon  as  David 
Whitmer,  Christian  Whitmer,  Jacob 
Whitmer,  and  others  who  were 
born  in  that  state. 

I  desire  to  attract  your  attention 
to  the  fact,  also,  that  from  the  City 
of  New  York,  in  1837,  went  forth 
the  first  Latter-day  Saint  mission- 
aries to  Great  Britain.  Further- 
more, I  desire  to  remind  you  that 
it  was  in  the  City  of  New  York  that 
Parley  P.  Pratt  first  published  his 
famous  Voice  of  Warning,  one  of 
the  first  books  printed  in  the  early 
clays  of  the  Church — a  book  that 
perhaps  has  done  more  good  and 
made  more  converts  to  "Mormon- 
ism"  than  any  other  single  book 
written  in  the  early  days  of  the 
Church.    It  was  also  in  the  City  of 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


New  York  that  Parley  P.  Pratt,  in 
1837,  first  introduced  the  fulness 
of  the  gospel;  and,  twenty  years 
later,  in  the  year  1857,  he  left  that 
city  to  go  to  his  martyrdom  in  the 
distant  state  of  Arkansas. 

We  may  also  remember  that  the 
port  of  New  York  was  the  place 
where  the  first  Latter-day  Saints 
immigrants  from  Great  Britain 
landed.  Heber  C.  Kimball  and  the 
other  missionaries  who  went  to 
England,  in  1837,  commenced  to 
preach  the  restored  gospel  in  Pres- 
ton, and  thence  went  into  the  re- 
gions round  about.  They  preached 
several  years,  however,  before  the 
emigration  of  Saints  to  America 
commenced;  but  when  it  did  com- 
mence it  is  recorded  in  Church  his- 
tory that  on  the  6th  .day  of  June, 
1840,  forty-one  souls  (members  of 
the  Church)  landed  in  the  City  of 
New  York,  having  crossed  the  At- 
lantic Ocean  in  the  sailing  vessel 
Britannia,  in  charge  of  Elder 
John  Moon.  This  marked  the  first 
emigration  of  Saints  from  the  old 
world  to  America  in  an  organized 
capacity.  In  that  same  year  ( 1840) 
the  ship  North  America  brought 
about  two  hundred  Saints  from 
Great  Britain.  The  next  year 
(1841)  eight  or  nine  ships  arrived 
from  Europe  with  Saints  hound  for 
Nauvoo,  111.  The  emigration  con- 
tinuing, eight  ships  sailed  in  1842, 
five  in  1843,  five  in  1844,  three  in 
1845,  and  one  in  1846;  all  these 
vessels  landed  immigrating  Saints 
at  New  York  and  New  Orleans 
hailing  from  Great  Britain.  After 
that  the  immigration  was  tempor- 
arily suspended  because  of  the  ex- 
odus of  the  Saints  from  Nauvoo  to 
these  mountains,  and  when  it  was 
reopened,  in  1848,  New  Orleans  was 
chosen  as  the  landing  place  for  the 
immigrants    from     Europe.     This 


continued  until  1855,  when  the 
route  was  changed  again,  and  since 
that  time  nearly  all  our  immigrants 
from  Europe  have  landed  in  the 
City  of  New  York,except  a  few  who 
landed  at  Philadelphia  and  Boston; 
of  late  years  a  number  of  ships 
with  Saints  on  hoard  have  also  end- 
ed the  voyage  at  Montreal,  Canada. 

We  should  not  forget  that  it  was 
from  New  York  also  that  the  ship 
Brooklyn  in  the  year  1846,  set 
sail  and  on  her  long  voyage,  doub- 
ling Cape  Horn,  and  in  due  course 
of  time  arrived  at  San  Francisco, 
Cal. — no,  there  was  no  such  place 
at  that  early  day;  it  was  the  small 
village  of  Yerba  Buena.  Among 
many  other  things  which  the 
Brooklyn  company  of  Saints 
brought  with  them  to  California 
was  a  printing  press  which  had 
been  used  by  Samuel  Brannan  (one 
of  the  presidents  of  the  Eastern 
States  mission,  and  one  of  the  pred- 
ecessors of  Brother  Monson  here) 
for  publishing  a  paper  in  New 
York  called  the  New  York  Mes- 
senger. On  this  printing  press, 
which  was  taken  around  on  the 
ship  Brooklyn  to  Yerba  Buena 
(afterwards  San  Francisco),  was 
printed  the  first  real  newspaper  in 
California,  the  so-called  California 
Star.  From  among  the  immigrants 
who  made  the  voyage  mentioned  in 
the  ship  Brooklyn  came  also  some 
of  the  first  founders  of  Utah. 

I  will  here  add  that  several  years 
after  the  presidency  of  Samuel 
Brannan  in  New  York,  Apostle 
John  Taylor,  who  presided  over  the 
Eastern  States  mission,  published  a 
noteworthy  periodical  called  The 
Mormon  in  the  interest  of  the 
Church.  For  about  three  years  The 
Mormon  was  the  distributor  of 
light  and  truth  in  the  Eastern  states 
so  far  as  the  fulness  of  the  gospel 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON. 


101 


was  concerned.  Its  motto  was : 
"It  is  better  to  represent  ourselves 
than  to  be  misrepresented  by 
others." 

I  have  felt  impressed,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  to  draw  your  atten- 
tion to  these  historical  facts  this 
morning,  in  connection  with  this 
outdoor  meeting.  Perhaps  it  is  be- 
cause I  am  more  historically  in- 
clined than  most  people  in  the 
Church  that  I  cannot  overlook  the 
fact  that  on  this  occasion  the  mem- 
ories of  events  connected  with  the 
earliest  days  of  the  Church  are 
brought  to  our  very  doors,  and  that 
we  have  the  eastern  country,  the 
New  England  States,  the  states  of 
New  York  and  Pennsylvania,  to 
thank  for  a  great  many  things 
which  we  at  the  present  time  enjoy. 
In  the  providences  of  Almighty 
God  it  so  happened  that  many 
prominent  men,  prophets  and  apos- 
tles and  others,  who  have  figured 
conspicuously  in  this  Latter-day 
dispensation,  were  born  in  those 
states  of  our  great  and  glorious  re- 
public which  border  on  the  Atlantic 
Ocean.  It  contradicts  the  assertion 
frequently  ma.de  that  Palestine  has 
produced  all  the  prophets  that  ever 
lived  and  that  to  Palestine  has  come 
all  the  angels  that  ever  brought  a 
message  from  heaven  to  the  inhab- 
itants of  the  earth.  That  assertion 
is  not  true.  In  the  Eastern  states 
of  our  own  country  and  elsewhere 
the  Lord  has  raised  up  prophets  and 
apostles  in  our  own  day,  and  in  the 
great  state  of  New  York  God  our 
Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ, 
our  Redeemer,  appeared  in  a  glori- 
ous vision  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  ;  angels  also  came  and  visited 
America,  just  as  literally  as  they 
ever  visited  Palestine  in  olden  times. 

May  God  help  us,  my  brothers 
and  sisters,  to  appreciate  the  gos- 


pel and  its  accompanying  gifts  and 
blessings,  as  restored  in  our  day  to 
the  earth,  which  gospel  must  ulti- 
mately be- preached  in  all  the  world. 
Long  ago  our  elders  would  have 
preached  it  in  all  the  countries  on 
the  earth,  if  the  inhabitants  had 
been  willing  to  receive  their  testi- 
monies. 

I  trust  that  the  time  is  not  far 
distant  when  the  pure  gospel  of 
Christ,  first  proclaimed  by  divine 
messengers  on  the  Hill  Cumorah, 
in  the  village  of  Fayette  and  on  the 
banks  of  the  Susquehanna  River, 
may  be  heard  in  every  land  and 
clime,  and  that  all  nations,  kin- 
dreds, tongues  and  people  may  have 
an  opportunity  to  listen  to  that  gos- 
pel as  it  has  been  restored  to  the 
earth  in  these  latter  days.     Amen. 


ELDER  WALTER  P.  MONSON. 

(President   of  the   Eastern   States   Mis- 
sion.) 

I  deem  it  a  great  pleasure  to  have 
this  opportunity  of  standing  before 
you  a  few  minutes  in  this  open  air 
meeting.  I  rejoice  in  the  spirit  un- 
der which  the  remarks  have  been 
given.  My  heart  has  been  thrilled 
by  the  precious  truths  which  have 
been  uttered. 

When  I  think  of  the  great  re- 
sponsibility resting  upon  one  who 
occupies  this  position,  I  tremble  in 
my  own  weakness,  and  yet  the  Lord 
has  said  that  he  will  support  those 
who  are  in  h:s  service.  For  upward 
of  eight  years  I  have  served  in  the 
ministry,  and  I  know  that  the  Lord 
will  not  desert  those  who  will  place 
their  entire  dependence  upon  him. 
I  wonder  if  we  as  Latter-day  Saints 
realize  how  precious  the  truth 
which  we  have  received  is.  To  me 
there  is  nothing    so    precious  and 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


true  as  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
and  the  testimony  which  seems  to 
have  been  horn  into  my  nature. 
Knowing  full  well  that  it  has  been 
bequeathed  unto  me  by  my  noble 
parentage.  I  thank  God  always 
that  my  father  and  my  mother  had 
the  courage  of  their  conviction.;  to 
turn  their  backs  on  the  old  world 
and  come  as  pioneers  to  this  west- 
ern land  and  help  make  these 
valleys  the  pleasant  abode  which 
they  now  are  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 

The  gospel  is  not  merely  a  code 
of  ethics  resulting  from  the  fer- 
vent thought  of  man,  neither  is 
the  organization  of  the  Church  a 
mere  congregating  together  of  a 
few  who  would  like  to  proclaim 
those  ethics  to  the  world,  but  the  or- 
ganization ,of  the  Church  was  di- 
vinely inspired  and  men  were  com- 
missioned to  go  forth  into  all  the 
world  to  preach  the  gospel  to  every 
creature,  and  to  baptize  those  who 
will  be  baptized,  and  to  save  the 
meek  and  the  lowly  of  the  earth.  It 
is  not  the  wise — those  who  are 
proud  and  puffed  up  in  their  own 
conceits, — that  will  listen  to  the 
testimony  of  our  humble  mission- 
aries, but  it  is  the  meek  and  the 
humble  and  those  who  hunger  and 
thirst  after  righteousness.  They  are 
they  who  are  being  filled.  I  want 
to  enjoin  upon  the  Latter-day 
Saints  that  you  turn  not  away  from 
the  spirit  and  power  of  this  great 
work,  for  I  want  to  bear  testimony 
to  you  that  no  greater  blessing  has 
ever  come  to  this  earth  and  been 
bestowed  upon  the  heads  of  men 
and  shared  in  blessing  by  the  wom- 
en, than  the  priesthood  and  author- 
ity of  Almighty  God.  We  sang, 
"We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  '  a 
prophet" — I  believe  every  true  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  is  thrilled  with  that 


beautiful  hymn,  but  I  thought  while 
we  were  singing  the  third  verse, 
there  may  be  some  who  have  sung 
it  time  and  time  again  without  get- 
ting its  full  meaning : 

"We'll     sing     of     his     goodness     and 
mercy; 
We'll    praise    him    by    day    and    by 
night, 
Rejoice  in  his  glorious  gospel, 
And  bask  in  its  life-giving  light; 

Thus  on  to  eternal  perfection 
The  honest  and  faithful  will  go; 

While  they  who  reject  this  glad  mes- 
sage 
Shall  never  such  happiness  know." 

The  Lord  revealed  to  the  prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  as  is  recorded  in  the 
eighty-eighth  Section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  that  the  gos- 
pel is  his  celestial  law  revealed  to 
terrestrial  beings,  which,  when  ap- 
plied to  our  lives  uplifts  us  from 
the  degradation  of  the  world  and 
plants  us  on  a  higher  level  and  in 
closer  relationship  with  God  our 
eternal  Father. 

"And  bask  in  its  life-giving 
light."  Perhaps  the  author  of  the 
hymn  had  in  mind  what  Paul  said 
in  the  15th  chapter  of  his  first  letter 
to  the  Corinthians,  "There  is  one 
glory  of  the  sun,  and  another  glory 
of  the  moon,  and  another  glory  of 
the  stars :  for  as  one  star  differeth 
from  another  star  in  glory,  so  also 
is  the  resurrection  of  the  dead."  I 
would  not  have  you  believe  that  the 
gospel  brings  blessings  only  in  the 
future  life,  or  rather  in  the  world 
to  come,  but  that  the  blessings  of 
the  gospel  are  to  be  realized  this 
very  minute  and  this  very  hour, 
and  will  purify  your  lives,  that 
when  you  shall  have  laid  off  this 
mortality,  you  will  rise  to  greater 
heights  than  would  have  been  pos- 
sible for  you  had  you  not  obeyed 
the  truth  as  it  has  been  revealed. 


ELDER  WALTER  P.  MONSON. 


103 


Now  to  the  illustration  of  Paul : 
if  the  gospel  is  the  celestial  law,  and 
the  celestial  kingdom  is  likened  unto 
the  glory  of  the  sun,  let  us  not  think 
only  of  the  light  which  the  sun  dif- 
fuses, but  think  of  the  power  and 
influence  of  light  without  which 
nothing  can  grow.  We  might  liken 
the  light  of  the  sun  to  the  intelli- 
gence of  man.  There  is  something 
else  besides  the  light  of  the  sun. 
There  is  the  warmth  which  coaxes 
the  tender  plant  from  the  cold  earth, 
raises  it  in  the  teeth  of  gravitation, 
makes  the  earth  lovely,  gives  green- 
ness to  the  vegetation.  We  might 
liken  the  warmth  of  the  sun  unto 
love,  and  where  there  is  no  intelli- 
gence and  love,  there  the  law  of  the 
celestial  world  does  not  reign.  Is 
there  anything  can  grow,  even  the 
attributes  of  God  in  the  heart  of 
man,  without  love  ?  The  very  glory 
of  God  is  intelligence  and  his  nature 
is  love. 

The  glory  of  the  sun  is  the  light 
thereof  typifying  the  celestial  glory 
the  place  where  God  the  Father  and 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ  dwell.  The 
glory  of  the  moon,  which  gives  light 
by  night,  though  not  so  illuminat- 
ing as  the  sun,  and  possessing  no 
warmth  —  typifies  the  terrestrial 
world.  We  are  told  those  who  in- 
herit this  glory  are  those  who  are 
the  honorable  men  of  the  earth. 
You  will  find  that  terrestrial  law 
working  among  the  children  of  men 
today.  They  have  a  smattering  of 
intellectual  light,  and  are  classed  as 
specialists,  who  are  not  interested 
in  anything  that  they  are  not  fa- 
miliar with.  Take  the  purely  scien- 
tific mind — it  loves  nothing  except 
science.  It  is  like  the  moon,  cold, 
inducing  nothing  to  growth.  But 
it  does  give  light  to  many  a  weary 
terrestrial  traveler ! 

The   law   of   the   telestial   glory, 


which  is  typified  by  the  glory  of  the 
stars,  gives  not  sufficient  light  to 
cast  a  shadow,  yet  there  is  that 
star  of  hope  held  out  for  all  of 
God's  children,  that  sometime, 
somewhere,  they  will  come  into  the 
love  of  their  heavenly  parent,  and 
enjoy  his  munificent  blessings  pre- 
pared from  before  the  foundations 
of  the  world. 

Looking  at  vegetable  life,  we  see 
plants  that  grow  in  darkness.  They 
are  pale ;  they  possess  not  the 
beauty  of  those  that  grow  in  open 
sunlight.  When  I  was  a  youth,  I 
remember  being  sent  into  the  cellar 
late  in  the  spring  to  sprout  some 
potatoes.  Every  sprout  was  reach- 
ing out  for  that  ray  of  sunlight  that 
came  through  a  little  aperture! 
And  yet  we  go  through  life  and  see 
God's  highest  creation,  man,  turn- 
ing his  back  on  the  light,  and  not 
as  the  potato  sprout  struggling 
therefor.  I  wonder  if  we  are  mag- 
nifying our  calling  and  are  growing 
toward  the  light  in  a  desire  to  be 
warmed  by  Christ's  love?  I  won- 
der if  we  know  just  who  we  are? 
If  we  do,  let  us  be  obedient  unto 
every  commandment  of  the  Lord 
our  Father. 

I  want  to  say  one  word  with  re- 
spect to  what  Pres:dent  Hinckley 
said  touching  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom. If  a  call  were  made  of  this 
audience  to  know  how  many  of  you 
drank  tea  or  coffee  for  breakfast, 
how  many  of  you  would  be  forced 
to  hang -you  heads  in  shame!  I  re- 
ceive letters  from  those  whom  I 
have  been  instrumental  in  bringing 
into  the  Church  in  the  old  world 
when  I  labored  as  a  missionary  in 
London,  who  are  traveling  from 
place  to  place,  and  who  say  there  is 
tea  and  coffee  drunk  in  the  homes  of 
some  of  the  prominent  people  of  this 
land.    What  is  the  use  of  sending 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


your  missionaries  out  into  the  world 
if  you  are  not  going  to  live  the  gos- 
pel here?  Why  neutralize  all  the 
efforts  that  they  put  forth  in  a  de- 
sire to  satisfy  your  appetite?  You 
say,  "It  is  a  little  thing,  it  does  not 
hurt  me."  It  hurts  you  and  it  hurts 
everybody  who  sees  you  do  it,  and 
I  want  to  tell  you  that  the  judg- 
ments of  Almighty  God  will  over- 
take you,  if  you  do  not  quit  it. 

In  New  York  City  last  year  the 
scourge  of  infantile  paralysis 
brought  sorrow  into  many  a  loving 
home.  The  doctors  do  not  know  the 
cause  of  it.  But  I  am  willing  to 
take  the  Lord  at  h:s  word  as  given 
in  the  89th  Section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants.  I  have  often 
wished  that  I  were  a  germinologist, 
and  with  faith  an.d  confidence  in  the 
Lord  I  would  start  my  investigation 
with  the  tea  and  coffee  drinker,  to 
find  out  if  there  does  not  lie  the 
cause  of  the  burning  out  of  the 
tender  nerve  cells  in  the  children. 
There  were  over  10,000  children 
stricken  with  this  dreadful  disease, 
in  1916,  in  New  York  City,  and  as 
many  more  in  the  State  of  New 
York  outside  of  the  city.  Twenty- 
five  per  cent  of  those  afflicted  suc- 
cumbed to  this  .dreadful  disease. 
You  can  scarcely  go  along  the  streets 
of  New  York  for  one  day  that  you 
do  not  see  some  poor  child  with 
limbs  shriveled,  hobbling  along  on 
a  crutch. 

The  Lord  has  warned  us,  and  I 
am  willing  to  take  his  warning.  He 
says, 

And  all  saints  who  remember  to  keep 
and  do  these  sayings,  walking  in  obe- 
dience to  the  commandments,  shall  re- 
ceive health  in  their  navel,  and  mar- 
row to  their  bones, 

And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great 
treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures; 


And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and 
shall  walk  and  not  faint; 

And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a 
promise,  that  the  destroying  ange! 
shall  pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of 
Israel,   and   not   slay   them. 

One  instance  where  a  family  of 
saints  were  located,  three  children 
were  carried  out  of  the  apartment 
with  infantile  paralysis.  They 
thought  it  contagious,  but  praise 
God,  not  one  saint  was  afflicted.  I 
have  faith  and  confidence  that  God 
will  preserve  the  lives  of  the  Lat- 
ter-.day  Saints  in  so  far  as  they  will 
yield  obedience  unto  his  laws  and 
commandments. 

May  God  bless  and  help  us  to  see 
these  things,  and  give  us  strength 
above  all  things,  to  overcome  the 
weaknesses  of  the  flesh,  that  we 
may  grow  more  like  him  each  day 
of  our  lives,  that  while  we  are  chil- 
dren in  the  workshop  of  Divinity, 
we  may  learn  to  build  clean  and 
holy  temples  for  the  indwelling  of 
His  holy  spirit. 

May  God  bless  us  to  this  end,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  dox- 
ology,  and  benediction  was  pro- 
nounced by  Elder  Benjamin  God- 
dard,  of  the  Bureau  of  Information. 


SECOND  OVERFLOW 
MEETING. 

A  second  overflow  meeting  was 
held  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  at  2 
p.  m.,  Elder  Melvin  J.  Ballard, 
president  of  the  Northwestern 
States  mission,  presiding. 

Music  was  furnished  by  the 
Richards  ward  choir,  under  direc- 
tion of  Leonidas  Fisher. 


ELDER  S.  NORMAN  LEE. 


105 


The  choir  sang:  "O  awake,  my 
slumbering  minstrel." 

Prayer  by  Elder  Richard  C.  May, 
counselor  in  the  presidency  of  Big 
Horn  stake. 

The  choir  sang  an  anthem : 
"Hark,  hark,  my  soul." 


ELDER  S.  NORMAN  LEE. 

(Recently  appointed  President  of  Box 
Elder  Stake.) 

I  am  greatly  pleased,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  to  be  numbered  among 
the  people  of  God,  and  I  am  highly 
gratified  that  the  Lord,  through  his 
chosen  servants,  has  seen  fit  to  place 
this  honor  upon  me.  I  feel  insig- 
nificant and  inadequate,  but  I  have 
an  abiding  faith  that  the  Lord  will 
fit  and  prepare  his  servants,  if  they 
show  a  willingness  to  work  in  his 
service. 

For  something  more  than  twenty 
years  I  have  been  engaged  in  the 
work  of  the  Lord  in  connection 
with  this  Church ;  and  in  that  time, 
though  it  may  seem  short  in  com- 
parison with  the  experience  of  some 
of  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have 
learned  that  one  of  the  greatest  of 
all  requisites  is  that  of  willingness. 
When  I  answered  a  call  to  go  into 
the  world  to  preach  the  gospel, 
when  I  was  a  mere  boy,  I  made 
a  resolution  with  myself  that  I 
would  go  where  the  servants  of  the 
Lord  wished  me  to  go,  and  perform 
such  work  as  they  desired  at  my 
hands,  and  I  have  found  that  that 
resolution  has  stood  me  in  good 
stead  in  every  department  in  which 
I  have  been  engaged.  When  I 
reached  Copenhagen,  and  met  my 
good  friend  and  mission  president, 
Christian  M.  Lund,  of  Mount 
Pleasant,  the  first  question  he  asked 
me  was,  "Where  would  you  rather 


go?"  I  said,  "Brother  Lund,  I 
should  like  to  go  where  I  am  most 
needed,  and  I  leave  that  matter  to 
you."  I  found  later  on  that  many 
of  the  brethren  were  in  the  habit  of 
expressing  a  preference  for  a  cer- 
tain mission  field,  and  I  understood 
then  how  it  was  that  President 
Lund  seemed  to  be  a  little  surprised 
that  I  had  no  preference,  and  that 
he  singled  me  out  for  special  atten- 
tion all  the  time  during  that  mis- 
sion. I  was  sent  to  a  place  that  was 
not  very  popular  with  missionaries, 
and  after  laboring  there  for  six  or 
seven  months,  a  call  came  to  send 
elders  into  the  Baltic  provinces  of 
Russia  and  away  into  the  country 
of  Finland,  and  President  Lund 
chose  me  for  that  mission.  I 
traveled  through  Finland  and  in  the 
country  roun|d  about  Pertograd 
during  three  months  of  the  summer 
just  twenty  years  ago,  hunting  up 
Saints  who  had  wandered  away 
from  the  fold  or  who  had  been  left 
without  a  shepherd  when  the 
change  in  government  in  Finland 
took  place ;  and  in  that  experience, 
more  than  anything  that  had  fallen 
to  my  lot  up  to  that  time,  I  learned 
a  little  of  what  it  is  to  engage  in 
the  labor  of  love  among  those 
Saints  who  had  been  without  a 
shepherd  for  a  number  of  years, 
who  were  so  del:ghted  to  see  the 
servants  of  the  Lord  that  they  wept 
with  joy.  We  also  wept  with  them, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  because  we 
received  thus  our  recompense  for 
anything  like  the  sacrifice  that  we 
had  made.  And  little  by  little  I 
learned  that  the  great  power  in  this 
work  is  the  power  of  love.  It  is, a 
feeling  that  urs;es  us  onto  labor  for 
the  general  uplift  of  mankind,  and 
when  I  had  performed  my  mission 
in  that  country,  and  been  honorably 
released,  I  made  the  resolution  with 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


myself,  on  leaving  that  land,  that 
when  I  returned  home,  I  would  not 
slacken  my  energies,  but  that  I 
would  try  and  keep  the  harness  on. 
I  am  very  pleased  to  say  that  I  kept 
that  resolution,  more  or  less,  and 
that  I  have  always  been  employed 
wherever  .1  have  been  located,  and 
have  been  identified  with  the  work 
of  the  Lord.  I  think  that  that  wil- 
lingness to  go  where  I  was  sent  had 
a  great  deal  -to  do  with  my  having 
received  a  call  to  go  to  Liverpool,  in 
1899,  and  to  assist  President 
Charles  W.  Penrose  in  the  publica- 
tion of  the  Millennial  Star.  And 
when  I  went  upon  that  mission,  I 
renewed  that  covenant  that  I  had 
made  with  the  Lord  and  myself, 
that  I  would  not  choose  to  have  my 
way,  but  that  I  would  try  to  find 
pleasure  in  doing  things  that  the 
servant  sof  the  Lord  wished  me  to 
do,  and  I  have  been  very  gratified 
with  the  experience  on  this  second 
mission.  I  was  associated  one  year 
with  President  Penrose,  and  one 
year  with  President  Clawson,  and 
I  have  learned  many  things  that 
have  stood  me  in  good  stead  in  my 
labors  since  that  time.  On  my  re- 
turn home,  or  almost  before  I 
reached  home,  in  1911,  I  was  asked 
to  become  a  member  of  the  high 
council  of  the  Box  Elder  Stake  of 
Zion,  and  I  labored  there  for  two  or 
three  years,  and  then  was  asked  to 
become  a  counselor  in  the  bishopric 
of  the  third  ward,  Brigham  City. 
Some  of  my  brethren  looked  upon 
that  as  a  sort  of  a  demotion,  and 
asked  me  if  I  did  not  feel  that  way, 
and  I  do  not  know  but  that  my  be- 
loved President,  Oleen  N.  Stohl, 
thought  that' I  might  feel  that  way. 
He  therefore  gave  me  my  choice  as 
to  whether  I  should  work  in  the 
high  council  or  accept  this  position 
in  the  bishopric   in  our  ward.      It 


is  a  source  of  satisfaction  to  me  that 
I  answered  that  if  I  thought  I  could 
do  more  for  the  general  welfare  of 
the  community  in  the  bishopric,  that 
that  was  the  place  in  which  I  should 
like  to  labor,  and  I  went  into  the 
bishopric.  As  I  look  over  those 
recent  experiences  and  consider  my 
recent  appointment  to  the  highly 
honorable  position  of  president  of 
one  of  the  greatest  stakes  of  Zion, 
I  have  thought  that  that  had  some- 
thing to  do  with  bringing  about  this 
appointment,  that  I  have  never  had 
any  hesitation  to  serve  where  it  was 
thought  I  could  serve  best.  I  have 
never  had  occasion  to  regret  it,  and 
I  am  inclined  to  follow  that  resolu- 
tion more  than  ever,  and  it  is  my 
constant  prayer  and  desire  to  do 
something,  to  work  in  "the  Church, 
and  that  I  may  so  conduct  my  work 
in  the  Church  that  my  brethren  who 
preside  over  me  should  know 
exactly  where  I  stand.  I  do  not  find 
it  necessary  to  consult  my  feelings 
as  to  whether  it  would  be  agreeable 
with  me  or  not,  but  they  could  place 
their  hand  on  my  shoulder  with  as- 
surance of  knowing  that  I  was 
there ;  and  whatever  requirements 
may  be  made  for  me,  I  hope  that  I 
may  always  feel  as  I  do  today,  that 
I  will  do  the  will  of  the  Lord  with- 
out respect  to  my  own  convenience 
and  feelings.  May  we  all  be 
blessed  with  that  feeling,  is  my 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  HEBER  Q.  HALE. 

(President   of    Boise   Stake   of   Zion.) 

"And  again,  the  Lord  shall  utter 
his  voice  out  of  heaven,  saying, 
Hearken,  O  ye  nations  of  the  earth, 
and  hear  the  words  of  that  God  who 
made  you.  O  ye  nations  of  the  earth, 
how  would  I  have  gathered  you  to- 
gether as  a  hen  gathereth   her  chick- 


ELDER  HEBER  Q.  HALE. 


107 


ens  under  her  wings,  but  ye  would 
not?  How  oft  have  I  called  upon  you 
by  the  voice  of  my  servants,  arid  by 
the  ministering  of  angels,  and  by  mine 
own  voice,  and  by  the  voice  of  thun- 
derings,  and  by  the  voice  of  light- 
nings, and  by  the  voice  of  pestilence, 
and  by  the  voice  of  earthquakes,  and 
great  hail  storms,  and  by  the  voice  of 
famines  and  pestilences  of  every  kind, 
and  by  the  great  sound  of  a  trump, 
and  by  the  voice  of  judgment,  and  by 
the  voice  of  mercy  all  the  day  long, 
and  by  the  voice  of  glory,  and  honor, 
and  the  riches  of  eternal  life,  and 
would  have  saved  you  with  an  ever- 
lasting salvation,  but  ye  would  not? 
Behold  the  day  has  come,  when  the 
cup  of  the  wrath  of  mine  indignation 
is  full.  Behold,  verily  I  say  unto  you, 
that  these  are  the  words  of  the  Lord 
your  God"   (Doc.  and  Gov.  43:23-27). 

The  spirit  of  this  conference  and 
the  thought  that  has  repeatedly 
come  to  me  are  best  expressed  in 
the  words  that  I  have  just  read  to 
you. 

What  is  the  language  of  the 
Lord,  and  how  does  he  speak  to  his 
people  ?  Language  is  only  useful  in 
the  communication  of  thought.  That 
thought  may  be  communicated  in 
writing,  as  I  have  read  it  to  you, 
which  appeals  only  and  is  service- 
able only  to  those  who  can  see  and 
who  can  read  and  understand  the 
words  that  they  see.  Thought  may 
be  communicated  by  the  word  of 
mouth,  serviceable  only  to  those 
who  have  the  gift  of  hearing  and 
who  understand  the  language  in 
which  those  thought  symbols  are 
expressed.  To  those  who  cannot  see, 
and  cannot  hear,  there  has  been  a 
means  devised  by  embossed  letters, 
that  thought  may  be  communicated 
by  appealing  to  one  of  those  three 
natural  senses.  God,  likewise,  has 
chosen  those  means  of  communi- 
cating to  his  children,  by  the  writ- 
ten word  and  by  the  spoken  word, 
and  also  he  communicates  through 


feelings.  He  has  other  means  of 
communication,  by  the  whisperings 
of  the  still  small  voice  that  is  heard 
by  the  ear  of  our  spirits.  And  when 
his  children  fail  to  heed  the  written 
word,  fail  to  respond  to  the  spoken 
word,  fail  to  hear  and  obey  the 
whisperings  of  the  still  small  voice, 
then  God  must  speak  in  some 
sterner  language,  that  his  children 
will  understand  and  obey,  and  he 
often  employs  the  forces  of  nature, 
in  the  thunder  storm,  in  lightning, 
in  famine,  in  earthquake,  in  some 
one  of  the  forces  of  nature,  to  bring 
to  the  understanding  and  attention 
of  his  children  that  which  they 
would  not  understand  in  more  gen- 
tle tones.  For  120  years  God  spoke 
through  his  servant  Noah  to  the 
children  of  his  great  world  family, 
as  they  existed  at  that  time.  They 
failed  to  respond  to  the  spoken 
word ;  they  failed  to  respond  to  the 
word  of  tradition,  as  it  came  down 
to  them  from  their  father  Adam, 
and  so  God  must  then  speak 
through  some  voice  of  nature  that 
his  word  might  be  heard  and  his 
mandates  obeyed ;  and  the  clouds 
of  heaven  gathered,  and  burst  forth 
and  scattered  rain  upon  the  earth 
until  the  low  places  were  filled, 
until  floods  dashed  upon  the  streets 
and  into  the  valleys,  and  the  people 
began  to  flee  from  their  homes  to 
the  high  places.  Noah  had  with- 
drawn with  his  family  into  the  ark, 
and  with  him  the  chosen  beasts  of 
the  field.  When  the  people  perceiv- 
ing their  peril  cried  out  unto  God, 
"Save  us  from  this  peril,"  it  was 
too  late ;  their  opportunity  for  sal- 
vation had  passed. 

God  spoke  through  his  servants, 
by  his  word  of  inspiration,  by 
dreams,  by  revelation,  even  through 
the  mouth  of  the  boy  Joseph,  that 
there    would    come   •&  time    when 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


famine  would  fill  the  land.  The 
brothers  and  nephews  of  this  boy 
who  had  been  so  favored  of  the 
Lord  sold  him  into  Egypt  and  then, 
later,  at  the  feet  of  pagan  Egypt 
the  children  of  Israel  had  to  kneel 
and  beg  for  bread.  Yet  rebellious 
Israel  forgot  God  in  their  days  of 
prosperity,  and  were  finally  per- 
mitted to  be  taken  into  bondage  and 
captivity  to  the  Egyptians,  and  for 
years  and  years  they  suffered  the 
humiliation  of  slavery.  When  the 
time  came  for  their  deliverance, 
there  came  the  voice  of  God  to  the 
pagan  idolaters  of  Egypt,  "Let  my 
people  go,"  but  they  heeded  not  the 
voice  of  the  servants  of  God,  which 
made  it  necessary  to  appeal  to  them 
through  some  of  the  forces  of  nat- 
ture,  speaking  through  some  sterner 
voice  that  they  might  understand 
and  obey,  and  pestilences  of  frogs, 
of  lice,  of  darkness,  came,  and  yet 
they  did  not  understand.  Finally, 
the  word  went  forth  that  "this 
night  shall  the  first  born  son  in 
every  Egyptian  home  be  slain." 
When  the  morning  broke  and  it  was 
discovered  in  the  homes  of  the 
Egyptians  that  their  first  born  sons 
were  slain,  then  they  understood. 
God  had  at  last  spoken  a  language 
that  pagan  Egypt  understood  and 
obeyed,  and  Israel  went  forth, 
miraculously  .delivered  from  tne 
hands  of  the  Egyptians,  mricaulous- 
ly  delivered  from  the  waves  of  the 
Red  Sea,  miraculously  fed  in  the 
wilderness  by  manna  from  heaven, 
by  water  from  the  rock ;  and  while 
their  prophet  Moses  was  upon 
Mount  Sinai,  receiving  the  com- 
mandments written  upon  tablets  of 
stone  by  the  finger  of  God,  the  first 
of  which  read,  "Thou  shalt  have  no 
other  gods  before  me,"  Israel,  this 
chosen  people,  down  in  the  valley, 
were  bowing  down  to  a  golden  calf, 


and  crying  for  the  fleshpots  of 
Egypt.  Idolatrous  worship  had 
again  filled  their  hearts,  and  the 
Lord  was  compelled  by  such  ex- 
pression, by  such  idoltry,  to  cause 
them  to  circle  about  in  that  great 
•desert  until  they  had  all,  practically, 
passed  away,  that  their  offspring 
might  go  over  the  river  Jordan  into 
the  promised  land. 

We  hasten  on.  In  the  days  of  the 
Master,  we  find  him  presenting  that 
great  parable  of  the  marriage  feast, 
wherein  was  shown  that  he  sent  out 
servants  to  invite  his  subjects  to  the 
feast.  A  few  only  came,  and  then 
he  sent  them  out  again :  "Go  ye  into 
the  highways  and  byways,  and  com- 
pel them  to  come."  Not  by  the  force 
of  the  law,  nor  the  force  of  armies. 
They  had  declined  to  come  because, 
some  had  recently  married  and 
were  on  their  honeymoons,  others 
had  purchased  a  yoke  of  oxen,  and 
were  so  busy  caring  for  and  trying 
them;  others  were  so  busy  in  the 
fields  and  could  not  come.  But  then 
went  forth  the  command  to  bring 
them,  sent  out,  not  by  strength  of 
arms,  but  by  removing  the  obstacle 
that  stood  in  the  way.  "Thou  shalt 
have  no  other  gods  before  me,"  and 
if  there  is  an  object  of  worship 
standing  between  me  and  my  God, 
when  my  God  speaks  for  me  to 
come,  I  must  watch  lest  that  object 
of  my  affection,  the  object  of  my 
worship,  making  it  possible  for  me 
to  obey,  is  removed,  whether  it  be 
wife,  whether  it  be  riches,  whether 
it  be  lands  and  possessions,  it  mat- 
tereth  not.  When  God  speaks,  it  is 
for  me  to  hearken ;  when  God  com- 
mands, it  is  for  me  to  obey.  Saul 
of  Tarsus  was  on  his  way  to  Da- 
mascus to  take  bound  the  Saints  of 
God  unto  Jerusalem.  He  had  heard 
the  word  of  the  Master ;  he  had 
heard  the  testimonies  of  the  apos- 


ELDER  HEBER  Q.  HALE. 


109 


ties ;  he  had  read  the  scriptures,  and 
was  second  to  none  in  his  knowl- 
edge of  the  law,  and  yet  he  heeded 
not  the  written  word,  the  testi- 
monies of  the  apostles  and  prophets 
of  God,  all  were  unheeded  by  him. 
God  must  yet  speak  in  some  other 
language,  in  some  other  manner,  to 
awaken  in  the  heart  of  Saul  the 
spark  of  truth;  and  while  on  this 
mission  of  persecution  the  voice  of 
God  spoke  out  of  the  clouds,  "Saul, 
Saul,  why  persecutest  thou  me?" 
Saul  fell  dumb  and  blind  to  the 
ground,  quivering,  shaking  in  every 
part  of  his  body.  He  knew  that 
some  power  had  spoken,  because, 
he  felt  it  all  over  him,  and  was 
turned  blind  and  helpless  on  the 
ground.  And  as  soon  as  he  re- 
gained his  speech,  he  called  out, 
"Lord,  what  wouldst  thou  have  me 
to  do?"  "Go  to  Damascus,  seek 
out  Ananias,  and  he  will  tell  thee 
what  thou  must  do."  Paul  obeyed. 
When  he  approached  Ananias,  An- 
anias had  already  received  the  reve- 
lation, and  was  ready  for  him,  and 
he  baptized  the  repentant  Saul,  laid 
his  hands  on  him,  and  when  the 
Holy  Ghost  came  upon  him,  the 
scales  fell  from  his  eyes,  and  Saul, 
the  persecutor  of  the  Saints,  be- 
came Paul  the  great  indefatigable 
apostle  of  Jesus  Christ. 

The  Lord  hath  spoken  in  this 
day.  His  word  has  been  revealed 
by  the  mouths  of  angels,  and  even 
by  the  mouth  of  the  Son  of  God.  ' 
His  word  has  been  revealed  in  the 
coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon and  in  the  revelations  known 
to  us  as  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price. 
And  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom,  in 
conformity  to  the  instructions  and 
commissions  imposed  upon  those 
who  organized  this  Church  and  who 
constituted  its  first  elders,  has  been 


carried  to  practically  every  civilized 
nation  in  the  world,  and  has  been 
preached  as  a  witness  of  the  second 
coming  of  the  Christ,  and  the  mes- 
sage of  salvation  to  the  children  of 
men.  And  yet,  while  these  nations 
have  been  warned,  while  the  gos- 
pel has  been  carried  to  them  by 
thousands  of  elders,  yet .  they  re- 
main in  the  same  condition  of  un- 
belief. And  while  they  have  had 
the  Bible  and  Christian  churches 
who  aspired  to  guide  them  toward 
heaven,  yet  they  remain  in  ignor- 
ance of  the  peril  that  hangs  over 
their  heads,  and  God  has  been  com- 
pelled to  speak  to  the  European  na- 
tions in  the  sterner  voice  of  war 
and  bloodshed,  brought  upon  them 
by  their  own  avarice,  by  their  own 
jealousies,  by  their  own  indiffer- 
ence to  the  commandments  of  Go.d, 
and  the  teachings  of  Christianity ; 
and  if  it  be  the  will  of  God  that  this 
condition  must  continue,  and  if  it 
be  necessary,  I  say,  that  this  price 
must  be  paid  for  that  most  precious 
of  all  possessions,  namely,  peace, 
as  heralded  by  the  angels  in  their 
song  at  the  birth  of  the  Christ,  then 
let  us  pray  that  when  this  price  is 
paid  that  peace  may  come,  and  that 
the  peace  of  God  may  be  manifest 
in  the  earth  and  among  the  inhabi- 
tants thereof,  and  the  earth  be  pre- 
pared for  his  second  coming. 

Let  it  not  be  said  of  you,  any  one 
of  you,  or  of  me,  that  it  shall  be 
necessary  for  God  to  speak  in  any 
other  way  than  by  his  own  word  or 
by  the  spoken  word  through  the 
mouths  of  his  servants,  before  we 
obey.  Let  us  be  like  the  brother 
who  preceded  me  today,  let  us  be 
ready  and  willing  to  go  where  we 
are  sent,  and  stay  where  we  are 
asked  to  remain.  Let  us  respond  to 
every  duty,  fulfil  every  obligation, 
live  up  to  every  responsibility,  for 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  want  to  tell  you,  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord,  that  we  are  living  in  the 
most  perilous  times  in  history.. 
There  has  never  been  a  time  in  your 
life,  and  never  will  be  again,  when 
a  greater  price  shall  be  paid  for 
bread  and  the  necessities  of  life, 
than  in  the  year  that  now  confronts 
us.  Let  us  stand  on  safe  ground, 
and  know  that  we  are  on  the  side 
of  liberty,  righteousness  and  God. 
Then  we  are  safe. 

Let  us  have  the  testimony  the 
prophet  Brigham  Young  had,  and 
so  expressed  in  these  words:  "I 
have  made  up  my  mind  to  live  my 
religion,  and  be  saved,  though  all 
other  men  go  to  hell."  There  was 
positiveness  ;  there  was  conviction  ; 
there  was  strength.  And  in  the 
strength  of  such  character  and  such 
faith,  God's  people  will  be  protected 
in  these  valleys  of  the  mountains. 
But  without  this  faith,  without  this 
testimony,  without  righteous  living 
among  the  people  of  God,  there 
can  be  no  promise. 

God  help  us  to  live  our  religion, 
keep  God's  commandments,  live  up 
to  our  obligations  as  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  get  the  testimony  that 
he  lives,  that  this  gospel  is  true,  and 
it  is  worth  living  for,  and  it  is 
worth  dying  for.  May  God  help  us 
to  do  this,  I  ask  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.     Amen. 

ELDER  ARTHUR  W.  HORSLEY. 

(President   of    the     Carbon    Stake    of 
Zion.) 

I  am  very  grateful  to  my  heav- 
enly Father  that  I  have  the  priv- 
ilege of  attending  this  conference. 
A  few  days  ago  I  did  not  feel  phys- 
ically able  to  come  to  Salt  Lake,  but 
through  my  faith  and  prayers,  and 
the  will  of  the  Lord,  I  am  able  to 
be  at  this  conference  and  to  enjoy 


the  spirit  thereof  in  listening  to  the 
servants  of  the  Lord,  listening  to 
his  prophets,  seers  and  revelators 
give  unto  us  instructions  that  are 
for  our  good  and  benefit  today. 

While  listening  to  what  has  been 
said  during  this  conference,  and 
what  has  been  said  by  the  elders 
this  afternoon,  the  thought  has 
gone  through  my  mind,  if  ever 
there  was  a  time  in  the  history  of 
this  Church  or  the  people  of  this 
Nation  when  we  needed  to  watch 
and  pray,  it  is  today,  for  we  are 
truly  living  in  perilous  times,  and 
we  know  not  what  the  end  will  be. 
But  we  will  have  to  stand  in  holy 
places,  and  pay  our  devotion  to 
God,  our  eternal  Father,  and  pray 
to  him  for  his  guidance  that  we 
may  do  the  right. 

We  need  to  look  after  the  boy 
and  the  girl  today,  because  we  ex- 
pect them  to  be  the  men  and  the 
women  of  tomorrow.  We  must 
teach  them  the  correct  principles  of 
the  gospel,  not  only  by  precept  but 
by  example.  There  is  a  vast  amount 
of  work  for  the  elders  of  the 
Church  to  do,  at  home  and  abroad, 
warning  mankind  of  the  impending 
judgments  that  will  befall  the 
wicked  unless  they  repent  and  turn 
unto  God.  We  have  many  precious 
souls  given  us  to  watch  over  in  the 
various  wards  and  stakes  of  Zion, 
thousands  of  them  born  under  the 
new  and  everlasting  covenant  need 
to  be  watched  over  and  to  be  taught 
the  principles  of  the  gospel.  But  I 
have  been  grieved  sometimes  when 
I  have  heard  some  of  the  brethren 
say  that  they  have  not  time  to  labor 
at  home,  and  that  they  have  come  to 
the  conclusion  that  so  much  ward 
teaching  in  the  wards  of  the  Saints 
is  not  really  necessary,  and  this  is 
verified  by  the  reports  we  get  from 
time  to  time  when  we  find  in  some 


ELDER   ARTHUR   HORSLEY. 


Ill 


cases  only  20  or  30  per  cent  of  the 
inhabitants  of  the  stakes  visited  by 
ward  teachers.  I  rejoice  in  the  la- 
bors of  the  ward  teachers  where  I 
reside.becanse  I  know  they  do  good. 
I  am  very  much  interested  when 
they  visit  my  house,  not  so  much 
interested  perhaps  in  the  eloquence 
which  they  may  display,  or  the  doc- 
trines which  they  may  promulgate, 
but  I  am  anxious  for  the  answers 
that  are  coming  forth  from  my  chil- 
dren, wondering,  when  questions 
are  put  to  them  by  the  ward  teach- 
ers, what  the  answers  will  be.  That 
is  what  I  am  concerned  about  most- 
ly, and  I  am  always  pleased  if  the 
questions  are  answered.  If  only  the 
simple  question  is  asked:  "Do  you 
pay  your  tithes  and  your  offer- 
ings ?"  I  await,  trembling  some- 
times, the  answer,  and  I  am  always 
glad  when  the  answer  is,  yes,  we 
believe  in  that  doctrine,  and  that 
we  observe  its  requirements.  Then 
the  question,  "Do  you  pray  unto  the 
Lord  morning  and  night  for  his 
guidance?"  I  wonder  again  what 
the  answer  will  be,  and  I  rejoice  in 
my  soul  when  the  answer  comes, 
"Yes."  And  again,  when  the  ques- 
tion comes,  "When  you  grow  up 
and  desire  a  wife,  or  a  husband,  as 
the  case  may  be,  do  you  understand 
it  is  your  duty  to  go  to  the  House 
of  the  Lord,  and  to  be  sealed  for 
time  and  all  eternity?"  again  ,1 
await  the  answer,  trembling  and 
wondering  what  the  answer  will  be, 
and  it  brings  joy  to  my  soul,  when 
I  hear  the  answer,  "I  will,  if  the 
Lord  is  willing,  and  I  am  worthy." 
These  thoughts  are  very  practical  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  they  are 
highly  necessary.  We  want  to  know 
just  what  our  boy  is  thinking  about, 
and  just  what  our  girl  is  thinking 
about,  and  we  want  to  know  if  they 
have  a  testimony  of  this  gospel  in 


their  souls.  Fathers  and  mothers 
should  know  this,  and  they  may 
not  get  it  in  any  other  way  than 
through  the  ward  teacher.  I  might 
ask  the  question,  and  they  might 
not  want  to  disappoint  me,  and 
they  would  say  "yes."  I  have  heard 
young  men  say  that  they  went 
on  missions  because  their  father 
asked  them  to  go,  and  they  wished 
to  please  him.  I  want  my  boy  to 
go  because  he  feels  it  his  duty, 
whether  it  pleases  me  or  not.  And 
they  should  have  the  necessary  faith 
for  this,  and  we  should  teach  these 
principles.  We  should  labor  while 
it  is  day,  for  the  night  cometh  when 
no  man  can  work. 

I  was  very  forcibly  impressed 
with  the  remarks  of  President 
Smith,  when  he  said  we  want  to  be 
loyal  to  God  and  to  our  nation.  We 
must  be  loyal  to  God  every  day  of 
our  lives,  and  I  hope  that  when  our 
boys  have  to  go  out  in  defense  of 
our  country  that  they  will  go  with 
the  love  for  humanity,  and  desir- 
ing the  liberty  and  rights  of  the 
children  of  God  in  the  earth.  Well 
might  the  Savior  say  at  one  time, 
"Ry  their  fruits  ye  shall  know 
them."  We  are  known  by  that 
which  we  produce  in  the  earth,  and 
we  want  it  said  of  us,  "Well  done, 
thou  good  and  faithful  servant." 

I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of 
the  Lord.  I  know  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God.  I 
know  that  God  lives,  and  he  hears 
and  answers  the  prayers  of  the 
Saints,  and  the  sick  are  healed 
through  faith  and  prayer.  I  know 
that  these  principles  are  true,  and 
my  prayer  is  that  we  may  live  in 
the  earth  so  as  to  be  entitled  to  the 
blessings  that  God  has  in  store,  that 
when  it  comes  time  for  us  to  lay 
down  this  body  it  may  be  said  truth- 
fully of  us,  'Well  done,  thou  good 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  faithful  servant,  enter  into  the 
joy  of  thy  Lord,"  which  is  my 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 
"High  on  the  mountain  top." 

ELDER  WILLIAM  T.  JACK. 

(President  of  the  Cassia  Stake  of  Zion.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  am 
very  happy  to  be  permitted  to  meet 
with  you  in  this  general  conference 
of  the  Church,  and  with  you  to  re- 
joice in  the  splendid  testimonies  and 
the  words  of  truth  and  inspiration 
that  have  fallen  from  the  lips  of  the 
general  authorities  of  the  Church. 
I  rejoice  in  the  word  of  the  Lord, 
because  in  it  there  is  righteousness  ; 
it  points  to  us  the  way,  it  suggests 
to  us  the  course  that  we  ought  to 
pursue.  It  teaches  us  that  we  ought 
to  walk  in  the  path  and  be  directed 
in  the  course  in  which  lies  salvation 
in  the  end.  At  this  moment  there 
are  assembled  together  in  the  three 
congregations  upon  this  block  pos- 
sibly more  than  twenty  thousand 
members  of  the  Church,  men  and 
women  who  have  come  from  all  the 
different  parts  of  the  Church,  that 
they  might  be  instructed  in  the 
word  and  will  of  the  Lord,  and  I 
earnestly  desire  that  while  I  shall 
stand  before  you  for  a  few  moments 
this  afternoon  that  my  time  may  not 
be  spent  in  vain,  but  that  the  same 
good  spirit  which  has  prompted 
those  who  have  preceded  me  in  this 
position,  and  which  has  actuated  all 
of  the  speakers  in  the  general  as- 
sembly during  the  past  three  days, 
and  this  morning,  may  be  felt  dur- 
ing these  few  moments. 

That  the  Lord  has  spoken  again 
from  the  heavens  there  can  be  no 
question  in  our    minds.     That    the 


angel  spoken  of  by  John  the  Reve- 
lator  (John  14:6)  has  come  to  the 
earth,  and  has  brought  that  glori- 
ous message,  we  do  not  doubt  this 
afternoon.  Indeed,  our  presence 
here  is  an  evidence  of  the  belief  that 
we  have  in  the  fulfilment  of  that 
glorious  prediction  by  the  Apostle 
John.  And  that  the  Lord  appeared 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  Smith  is 
equally  evident.  And  that  the  gos- 
pel has  been  established  upon  the 
earth  is  true.  Possibly  the  majority 
of  those  who  are  here  this  after- 
noon are  members  of  the  Church, 
and  to  attain  that  membership  it 
has  been  necessary  for  us  to  be- 
lieve in  God,  accepting  him  and 
acknowledging  him  as  our  spiritual 
Father,  as  the  Father  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  in  the  flesh ; 
and  that  Jesus  was  born  of  the 
Virgin  Mary,  and  that  he  fulfilled 
his  earthly  mission,  and  that  his  life 
was  concluded  in  the  sacrifice  that 
he  offered  for  us  and  for  the  world. 
We  believe  that  through  the  atone- 
ment of  Christ  all  men  will  be 
saved,  through  obedience  to  the 
laws  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel. 
This  is  specific  salvation.  There  is 
in  the  atonement  of  Christ  a  gen- 
eral term  of  salvation.  "As  in 
Adam  all  die,  even  so  in  Christ  shall 
all  be  made  alive."  So,  as  many  as 
shall  die  and  have  died  through  the 
transgression  of  Adam,  shall  be  res- 
urrected from  the  grave  by  the 
atonement  of  Jesus  Christ.  That 
will  be  true  of  all  men,  saint  and 
sinner,  Jew  and  Gentile,  bond  and 
free.  All  men  will  be  participants 
in  the  benefits  of  the  atonement  of 
Jesus  Christ,  as  far  as  the  resur- 
rection of  these  bodies  is  concerned. 
There  is  no  question  about  that  in 
my  mind.  If  there  is  any  one  fact 
in  scripture  that  is  proved  beyond 
the  peradventure  of  a  doubt  more 


ELDER  WILLIAM  T.  JACK. 


113 


than  another,  it  is  the  fact  of  the 
literal  resurrection  of  the  bodies  of 
those  who  have  lived.  With  this  be- 
lief in  the  Father  and  in  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ,  who  came  into  the 
world  that  we  might  live,  and  our 
belief  in  that  wonderful  influence 
that  comes  from  the  presence  of 
God  and  fills  the  immensity  of  space 
by  which  our  natural  minds  and  our 
understandings  are  quickened,  our 
eyes  opened,  and  our  comprehen- 
sion is  enlarged,  to  which  we  refer 
as  the  Holy  Ghost,  a  personage  of 
spirit, — I  say  with  faith  in  this,  and 
with  faith  in  the  love  and  mercy  of 
our  Father  in  heaven,  and  in  men 
whom  God  has  chosen  from  among 
their  fellows  and  placed  upon  them 
a  portion  of  his  honor,  giving  them 
authority  to  officiate  in  his  name 
and  power  to  act  among  the  chil- 
dren of  men  in  the  same  manner 
and  with  the  same  effect  as  though 
he  were  present  himself  and  per- 
formed these  ordinances,  we  are  fit 
candidates  for  initiation  into  his 
Church.  With  faith  in  God,  with 
faith  in  Jesus  Christ  his  Sop,  with 
faith  in  the  mission  and  operations 
of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  with  faith 
in  the  men  whom  God  has  appointed 
to  preside  over  us  in  the  holy  priest- 
hood, we  are  then  fit  candidates  for 
baptism,  that  baptism  by  which  we 
are  "buried  in  the  water"  and  come 
forth  out  of  the  watery  grave  to  a 
newness  of  life.  "Know  ye  not," 
the  Apostle  Paul  declares,  "that  so 
many  of  us  as  were  baptized  into 
Jesus  Christ  were  baptized  into  his 
death?  Wherefore,  we  are  buried 
with  him  into  death,  that  like  as 
Christ  was  raised  up  from  the 
dead,  by  the  glory  of  the  Father, 
we  also  should  walk  in  newness  of 
life ;  for  if  we  have  been  planted 
together  in  the  likeness  of  his  death, 
we  shall  be  also  raised  up  after  the 


likeness  of  his  resurrection."  Now 
we  have  received  these  glorious  or- 
dinances. We  have  been  baptized  in 
the  water,  in  the  name  of  the  Fath- 
er and  of  the  Son  and  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  we  have  come  forth  to  a 
newness  of  life.  I  hope,  my  breth- 
ren an.d  sisters,  that  it  is  to  a  new- 
ness of  life.  I  hope  that  we  were 
able  to  "put  off  the  old  man"  of  sin 
when  we  went  down  into  that 
watery  grave.  I  hope  we  have  been 
able  to  live  above  the  traditions  of 
the  world,  so  that  when  the  hands 
of  the  elders  were  placed  upon  our 
heads  and  the  Holy  Ghost  was  con- 
ferred upon  us  that  we  became  fit 
receptacles  for  the  indwelling  of 
that  divine  influence,  that  we  might 
then  be  in  that  attitude  of  mind  and 
purity  of  body  that  we.  would  be 
able  to  receive  the  whisperings  of 
that  still  small  voice,  and  that  we 
would  be  guided  by  its  promptings, 
directed  by  its  influence,  and 
strengthened  by  its  power.  And  if 
we  have  thus  lived,  and  if  today  we 
sit  in  this  congregation  as  men  and 
women  thus  favored  of  the  Lord 
our  God,  then  happy  are  we.  But 
I  am  sorry,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
to  admit  in  your  hearing  this  after- 
noon, that  there  are  many  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  who  believe  in  the 
divine  mission  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  in  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel  in  the  day  and  age  in 
which  we  live,  who  went  forth  into 
the  waters  of  baptism  and  received 
the  "laying  on  of  hands  of  the  pres- 
bytery" and  who,  soon  after,  sat 
down  on  the  banks  of  the  stream, 
and  failed  to  grasp  the  situation  and 
the  opportunities  around  about. 
They  failed  to  live  their  religion, 
fa:led  to  comply  with  the  require- 
ments made  upon  them,  failed  to 
grow  with  the  growth  of  the  Church 
and  today  they  find  themselves  far 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


in  the  rear  of  the  advanced  condi- 
tion of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  So  these  con- 
ferences are  called,  these  assem- 
blies gather  together  from  time  to 
time,  in  order  that  our  ears  may  be 
opened  to  the  voice  of  the  Lord  as 
it  comes  to  us  through  his  divinely 
appointed  servants,  and  if  we  are 
wise  and  desire,  in  a  night  not  very 
far  distant,  to  have  oil  in  our  lamps 
and  to  have  those  lamps  trimmed 
and  burning,  we  will  receive  the 
word  with  gladness,  and  we  will 
put  it  into  practice  in  our  lives.  We 
will  be  guided  by  it  in  these  days  of 
trouble  and  trial  and  evil  in  the 
world,  and  we  will  live  near  unto 
the  Lord,  so  that  when  these  trou- 
bles become  more  grievous,  and  per- 
haps more  close  to  us  than  they 
have  been  in  the  past  two  and  a  half 
years,  that  our  feet  will  be  found 
standing  in  holy  places,  that  we  will 
have  God  for  our  friend,  that  we 
will  have  taken  the  Holy  Spirit  for 
our  guide,  that  we  will  henceforth 
be  able  to  stand  amid  the  wh:rl  of 
doubt  and  the  fear  of  nations,  hav- 
ing our  trust  planted  in  the  God  of 
Israel,  realizing  and  remembering 
the  promises  that  Jehovah  made 
while  he  was  here  in  his  personal 
ministry,  and  which  he  has  made 
through  his  spoken  word  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  If  we  are 
able  to  read,  we  will  read  the  signs 
of  the  times,  as  Daniel  read  the 
handwriting  on  Belshazzar's  wall 
and  understood  in  a  moment  what 
it  meant. 

I  believe  every  Latter-day  Saint 
ought  today  to  be  standing  in  such 
a  holy  place,  and  living  such  a  holy 
life,  that  he  or  she  will  be  able  to 
discern  the  signs  of  the  times.  We 
may  not  be  able  to  tell,  as  was 
stated  this  morning,  within  any  cer- 
tain number  of  months  or  years,  the 


time  of  the  second  advent  of  our 
Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ;  but 
we  will  know  this,  that  when  the 
fig  tree  is  putting  forth  its  leaves 
summer  is  nigh,  and  that  the  warm 
weather  will  soon  come  upon  us. 
We  may  know  just  as  assuredly  that 
we  are  living  in  a  time  near  the 
coming  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  if 
we  are  able  to  read  the  signs  of  the 
times.  I  do  not  know  how  many 
of  you  have  read  recently  the  24th 
chapter  of  Matthew,  and  have  con- 
sidered the  words  of  the  Lord 
Jesus,  uttered  prior  to  his  crucifix- 
ion, with  reference  to  these  very 
times  in  which  we  are  living.  If 
you  remember,  he  refers  the  people 
to  the  prophecy  of  Daniel  of  old, 
with  reference  to  the  destruction  of 
Jerusalem  and  with  reference  to  the 
days  and  times  in  which  we  are  liv- 
ing and  his  second  coming.  You 
remember  he  makes  the  statement 
that  when  these  tribulations  and  de- 
struction, referred  to  by  Daniel, 
shall  appear  among  the  peoples  of 
the  earth,  then  is  time  for  us  to  be 
putting  our  feet  in  holy  places.  I 
want  to  say  in  passing  that  those 
who  have  attended  the  sessions  of 
this  conference  have  endeavored, 
and  to  this  extent  have  manifested 
the  disposition  to  be  in  a  holy  place 
during  this  time,  and  I  congratulate 
you  for  it,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 
You  are  doing  well. 

If  in  your  lives,  during  the  com- 
ing six  months,  or  the  coming  year, 
or  years,  you  will  continue  to  stand, 
not  only  in  this  holy  house,  or  in 
all  the  holy  houses  tnat  God  has  ap- 
pointed for  us  to  meet  in,  it  will  be 
well  with  you.  When  I  look  over 
the  reports,  I  find  that  only  an  av- 
erage of  from  16  to  20  per  cent  of 
the  membership  of  this  Church  at- 
tend their  sacramental  meetings  on 
Sunday  afternoon,  I  am  constrained 


ELDER  WILLIAM  T.  JACK. 


115 


to  believe  that  some  if  not  many  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  have  not  de- 
cided to  stand  in  holy  places  on  the 
Sabbath  afternoon,  and  I  think  thai, 
the  words  of  Paul  are  finding  some 
application  in  the  lives  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  in  which  he  said, 
speaking  to  his  favorite  son,  Timo- 
thy, that  in  the  latter-days,  those  in 
which  we  are  living,  "perilous  times 
shall  come,  for  men  shall  be  lovers 
of  their  own  selves,  covetous,  boast- 
ers, proud,  blasphemers,  disobe- 
dient to  parents,  unthankful,  un- 
holy, without  natural  affection, 
trucebreakers,  false  accusers,  incon- 
tinent, fierce,  despisers  of  those  that 
are  good,  traitors,  heady,  high- 
minded,  lovers  of  pleasure'  more 
than  lovers  of  God."  I  am  afraid 
that  sometimes  this  spirit  of  evil  is 
entering  in  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  in  that  we  would  rather  be 
somewhere  else  on  the  Sabbath  day, 
when  our  feet  should  rest  in  some 
holy  place,  during  the  two  hours  of 
our  sacramental  meeting. 

The  same  is  true  of  the  priest- 
hood. Twenty-six  per  cent  on  an 
average  of  those  who  hold  the 
priesthood  attend  the  ward  priest- 
hood meetings.  It  is  not  very  cred- 
itable to  us,  as  members  of  the 
Church,  is  it?  Every  blessing  that 
we  enjoy,  or  that  is  to  be  enjoyed  in 
the  Church,  either  in  time  or  in 
eternity,  must  come  to  us  through 
this  holy  priesthood.  When  we  for- 
get this,  we  forget  our  duty  to  God, 
and  to  ourselves,  and  also  to  the 
priesthood.  We  are  told  in  the  29th 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, that  those  who  have  not  this 
priesthood  in  the  world  to  come  will 
have  no  power  of  salvation;  that 
those  who  are  cast  off  into  the  out- 
side, where  there  shall  be  weeping 
and  wailing  and  gnashing  of  teeth 
and  eternal   darkness,   will  not  be 


able  to  come  out  of  that  place  be- 
cause they  have  no  power.  Now, 
you  brethren  who  hold  the  power 
of  the  priesthood,  and  that  means 
the  power  of  salvation  by '  which 
you  can  lift  yourselves  above  the 
groveling  events  of  this  earth,  and 
be  exalted,  heirs  to  the  kingdom 
of  God.  Therefore,  let  us  honor 
this  priesthood ;  let  us  do  our  duty, 
and  comply  with  all  the  require- 
ments made  of  us,  and  God  will 
honor  us  both  here  and  hereafter. 

Needless  to  say  we  are  living  in 
troublous  times,  when  that  phial 
of  wrath  has  been  poured  out  upon 
the  land  and  upon  the  sea,  when 
the  hand  of  destruction  is  falling 
upon  those  who  dwell  upon  the 
earth,  upon  the  land  and  upon  the 
sea.  I  think  so,  and  it  will  increase 
until  the  consummation  of  all  things 
and  the  dawn  of  the  millennium 
have  come  'to  us.  We  need  not  be 
surprised  at  these  things.  They  are 
coming.  Our  sons  may  have  to  go 
to  the  front.  They  may  have  to 
enlist  and  go  out  and  face  the  en- 
emy, the  enemy  of  our  country,  be- 
cause I  want  to  say  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  God  has 
given  this  land  to  be  the  home  of 
the  free,  and  this  country  will  ever 
be  a  free  nation.  I  do  not  consider 
that  the  time  will  ever  come  that 
any  foreign  king  will  ever  be  per- 
mitted to  rule  upon  this  land,  be- 
cause the  decree  and  purposes  of 
God  are  all  opposed  to  that.  But 
there  will  come  a  time — there  is 
coming  a  time,  when  the  good  peo- 
ple of  this  nation,  just  as  far  as 
their  wickedness  extends,  will  be 
scourged  by  the  hand  of  the 
scourger  until  thev  have  opened 
their  eyes  and  understood  the  pur- 
poses of  God. 

Let  me  say.  in  closing,  that  in  the 
midst  of  this  time  let  us  be  sure  that 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


we  keep  in  mind  the  purposes  of 
our  lives.  Some  men  may  love  to 
conquer  as  they  have  done  in  the 
past,  and  we  know  we  hope  to  con- 
quer. I  want  to  say  to  you  for  the 
comfort  of  those  mothers  and  fath- 
ers of  sons  that  may  have  to  go  into 
the  war,  that  we  shall  and  must 
conquer  in  the  power  of  Israel's 
God.  The  history  of  the  past  shows 
us  very  plainly  that  very  few  men, 
without  the  power  of  God  resting 
upon  them,  have  been  able  to  con- 
quer, and  that  principle  suggests 
the  truth  today  as  it  ever  was. 
There  are  a  great  many  things  be- 
sides fighting  for  us  to  do.  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  an  organization  of 
peace  and  an  organization  of  uplift. 
Not  very  many  days  ago,  in  the 
section  in  which  I  live  and  in  the 
stake  over  which  I  have  the  honor 
to  preside,  there  came  into  our 
district  representatives  of  the 
Canadian  government,  soliciting 
our  young  men,  our  sons  and 
our  fathers,  to  leave  their  homes 
and  go  over  into  Canada,  in 
order  that  the  soil  of  Canada 
might  be  tilled  and  crops  pro- 
duced. Their  young  men  had 
gone  to  the  war,  their  communities 
had  been  deprived  of  men  who  had 
been  engaged  in  commerce  and 
labor,  and  therefore  it  became  nec- 
essary for  them  to  send  representa- 
tives into  the  various  states  of  this 
nation  in  order  to  employ  boys  to 
till  the  soil  for  them.  Perhaps  many 
of  our  boys  will  rush  headlong  into 
the  ranks,  so  that  little  means  will 
be  left  for  help  in  tilling  the  soil. 
I  live  in  an  agricultural  district,  and 
I  consider  very  strongly  that  an 
important  duty  is  to  the  soil,  to  the 
raising  of  crops  in  order  that  the 
people,  even  those  who  are  engaged 
in  the  conflicts  of  war  may  be  pro- 


vided with  the  necessaries  of  life. 
There  will  be  plenty  to  go  to  the 
front;  and  yet,  all  should  be  ready 
to  go,  if  required.  Though  I  am 
past  the  age  myself,  yet  I  feel,  if 
the  time  comes  and  necessity  calls 
for  it,  and  my  other  necessities  will 
spare  me — because  I  have  other  du- 
ties that  I  cannot  very  well  forego 
— if  I  can  be  spared  from  those 
other  callings  and  wants,  I  will  be 
glad  to  do  all  I  can.  Yet  I  must 
recognize  that  these  other  things  de- 
volve upon  me. 

Our  loyalty  need  not  be  ques- 
tioned, because  God  knows  there 
are  no  people  in  the  United  States 
in  whose  veins  flows  more  loyal 
blood  than  in  the  veins  of  the 
members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Well, 
let  us  be  true  to  ourselves,  my 
brethren  and  sisters;  let  us  be  true 
to  the  Church  that  has  given  us 
such  a  glorious  heritage.  Let  us  be 
true  to  God  who  has  made  it  possi- 
ble for  us  to  occupy  these  peaceful 
valleys  of  the  mountains,  that  we 
may  live  out  in  perfection  the  life 
that  God  has  given  us,  so  that  when 
we  shall  pass  away  from  this  earth 
there  shall  await  us  the  glorious 
reward  of  salvation  in  the  king- 
dom of  our  God,  I  humbly  ask  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

Elder  Melvin  J.  Ballard  sang  a 
solo :  "I'll  go  where  You  want  me 
to  go,  dear  Lord." 

ELDER  SERGE  F.  BALLIF. 

(President    of    the     Cache     Stake    of 
Zion.) 

My  beloved  Brethren  and  Sisters: 
I  can  assure  you  that  I  feel  very 
humble  and  dependent  upon  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  standing  be- 
fore you  here  this  afternoon ;  and 
from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  I  de- 


ELDER  SERGE  F.  BALLIFF. 


117 


sire  that  the  Lord  may  prompt  me 
in  the  words  that  I  may  utter  in 
your  hearing.  We  are  living  in  an 
age  when  God  has  again  spoken 
from  the  heavens,  and  established 
his  work  upon  the  earth.  That 
work  will  remain ;  it  will  not  be 
taken  away,  and  it  will  not  be  given 
to  another  people,  because  it  has 
been  established  of  our  heavenly 
Father.  It  matters  not  what  we 
might  or  might  not  do;  it  matters 
not  what  influences  may  be  brought 
to  bear  in  the  world,  my  testimony 
is  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
has  been  established  in  the  earth 
and  it  will  remain  to  accomplish  the 
full  purposes  of  God,  our  heavenly 
Father.  I  have  a  testimony  that  is 
burning  in  my  bosom  which  de- 
clares to  me  that.  God  lives.  It  de- 
clares to  me  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ. 
It  declares  to  me  that  Joseph  Smith 
is  indeed  a  prophet  of  God,  raised 
up  in  our  day  as  an  instrument  in 
the  hands  of  God  to  accomplish  di- 
vine purposes. 

Today  we  say  there  are  a  great 
many  prophecies  going  into  fulfil- 
ment. The  prophets  have  said  that 
there  would  be  a  change  of  seasons, 
the  seasons  would  be  changed,  that 
mens'  hearts  would  fail,  that  all  the 
former  signs  would  be  changed, 
and  the  peoples  of  the  earth  would 
change  in  their  opinions,  and  that 
wars  and  rumors  of  wars  would 
agitate  the  hearts  of  people  in  the 
world.  My  heart  goes  out  today  to 
the  people  in  the  world. 

A  number  of  years  ago  I  was 
called  to  go  upon  a  mission, 
and  in  the  commencement  of  my 
mission  I  was  assigned  to  labor  in 
the  little  kingdom  of  Belgium,  in 
the  little  city  of  Liege.  I  was  after- 
wards appointed  to  travel  without 
money  and  without  price  in  all  the 
cities    and     hamlets   in  that    little 


country,  and  had  the  privilege  of 
bearing  my  testimony  to  a  great 
many  people  in  that  land.  With 
all  my  heart  I  am  thankful  to  my 
heavenly  Father  for  the  privilege 
that  I  had  to  go  to  that  land,  and  to 
raise  my  voice  of  warning  unto  that 
people,  to  declare  unto  them  that 
the  heavens  had  again  been  opened, 
that  the  gospel  of  Christ  had  again 
been  established  upon  the  earth  in 
our  own  day.  It  was  indeed  a  great 
pleasure  to  me,  and  I  want  to  say, 
that  during  my  labors  there  I  found 
a  good  people.  I  found  them  to  be 
hospitable.  They  have  taken  me 
into  their  homes.  They  have  given 
me  a  bed  to  sleep  in,  food  to  eat, 
and  clothing  to  wear,  and  many  of 
them  have  accepted  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  and  I  believe  that  the 
testimonies  of  the  elders  who  have 
traversed  that  land  stand  out  be- 
fore those  people  today,  even  as  the 
handwriting  on  the  wall.  They  re- 
member the  testimonies,  and  they 
are  burning  in  their  bosoms. 

I  want  to  testify  to  you  that  it  is 
not  alone  the  testimonies  and  the 
acceptance  of  the  gospel;  it  is  not 
alone  the  fact  that  you  received  the 
gospel  and  that  you  went  down  into 
the  waters  of  baptism  and  were 
born  again ;  but  the  great  question 
for  me  and  for  you  to  know  is,  that 
we  have  accepted  that  gospel  with 
clean  hands  and  with  repentant 
hearts,  and  that  we  came  out  of 
the  waters  of  baptism  and  re- 
ceived by  the  servants  of  the  Lord 
through  the  laying  on  of  hands  the 
Holy  Ghost.  I  testify  to  you  that 
though  you  go  into  the  waters  and 
come  out  of  the  waters,  if  you  have 
not  repented  in  your  souls,  your 
baptism  will  not  be  accounted  unto 
you  for  righteousness.  Therefore, 
I  say  it  is  important  for  us  to  real- 
ize and  understand  that  when  we 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


enter  into  these  sacred  covenants 
we  have  not  finished,  but  have  sim- 
ply commenced  the  great  work  that 
lies  before  us. 

After  laboring  a  short  time  in 
Belgium,  I  was  called  to  labor  in 
the  Swiss-German  mission,  to  pre- 
side over  that  mission,  and  I  had  an 
experience  during  my  time  in  that 
land,  in  France,  in  Switzerland  and 
Germany,  and  I  want  to  say  to  you 
that  my  heart  is  filled  with  grati- 
tude to  our  heavenly  Father  that  1 
did  have  the  privilege  of  bearing 
my  testimony  in  all  the  provinces 
of  Germany,  in  Austria,  in  Hun- 
gary, in  France,  in  Switzerland,  in 
many  of  the  homes  of  the  people.  I 
feel  thankful  for  the  privilege  that 
I  had  of  going  into  those  lands  and 
bearing  unto  them  a  warning  testi- 
mony of  the  establishment  of  the 
Church  of  Christ  in  our  day.  It 
was  not  without  a  great  .deal  of  op- 
position that  the  gospel  was 
preached  in  Germany.  I  remember 
many  times  of  attending  meetings 
in  the  great  city  of  Berlin,  the  cap- 
ital. Many  times  before  we  met, 
in  fasting  and  prayer,  we  implored 
the  Lord  that  he  might  protect  us 
in  the  secret  meetings  that  we  were 
about  to  hold,  that  we  might  not  be 
molested  by  the  hands  of  those  who 
were  our  enemies,  that  they  might 
not  overtake  us  and  banish  us  from 
their  land.  We  had  the  message  of 
peace  and  of  love,  and  our  souls 
were  filled  with  love  and  our  de- 
sires were  to  deliver  our  message  to 
that  great  people  in  the  land  of  Ger- 
many. Ofttimes  the  secret  officers 
entered  our  meeting  houses,  dressed 
as  civilians,  and  there  they  have 
taken  our  missionaries,  thence  to 
prison,  and  many  times  our  elders 
have  served  .days  and  weeks  behind 
the  bars  for  the  gospel's  sake,  but  I 
want  to  testify  to  you  that  our  el- 


ders did  not  murmur.  They  sang 
praises  to  God,  and  the  testimonies 
of  the  gospel  burned  in  their  bos- 
oms. There  was  no  doubt  in  their 
souls  that  God  lives,  no  doubt  in 
their  souls  that  Joseph  Smith  is 
a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  God  was 
able  to  take  care  of  them  and  pro- 
tect them.  They  were  always  ready 
and  willing  to  go  where  they  were 
called  to  go,  it  mattered  not  what 
the  danger  might  have  been.  And 
I  believe  today  there  are  thousands 
of  people,  yes,  I  was  going  to  say 
there  are  millions  of  people  direct- 
ly and  indirectly  who  have  heard 
the  testimonies  from  the  lips  of  our 
elders  as  well  as  from  the  many 
tracts  that  they  have  distributed  in 
those  lands,  I  believe,  today,  that 
their  hearts  are  pricked.  They  be- 
lieve in  their  souls  that  they  re- 
jected the  message  of  life  and  sal- 
vation which  was  delivered  unto 
them.  I  remember  at  one  time  in 
my  travels  throughout  the  mission, 
I  went  up  to  attend  a  conference  in 
Koenigsburg  on  the  Baltic,  near  the 
borders  of  Russia,  and  we  held  a 
splendid  conference,  and  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  was  manifest,  although 
we  were  in  secret,  and  our  house  of 
worship  was  filled  with  strangers. 
The  Spirit  of  God  was  made  mani- 
fest in  great  power.  And  I  believe 
that  in  my  broken  German  I  stood 
before  that  congregation  and  bore 
my  testimony  to  them,  and  for  the 
first  time  during  the  six  years  that  I 
was  in  the  mission  field,  after  the 
services  were  ended,  the  officer  of 
the  law  tapped  me  on  the  shoulder 
and  said,  "Come  with  me."  Those 
were  indeed  trying  moments',  but 
there  was  no  fear  in  the  souls  of 
our  elders.  We  knew  that  we  were 
engaged  in  the  work  of  the  Mas- 
ter, and  that  he  had  the  power  to 
protect  his  servants.     I  went  with 


ELDER  SERGE  F.  BALLIFF. 


119 


this  man  to  the  court  of  justice,  and 
for  many  hours  they  questioned  and 
cross-questioned,  and  then  sent  me 
from  one  department  of  the  court 
to  another,  and  finally,  for  the  first 
time  in  all  my  experience  (this 
I  have  never  told  before),  the  judg- 
ment came,  and  I  was  banished 
from  Posen.  I  did  not  make  it 
known  to  my  brethren  in  Zion.  And 
those  few  who  were  with  me,  I  told 
them,  this  shall  not  go  further.  But 
on  my  dismissal  I  continued  my  la- 
bors, and  I  visited  all  of  the  large 
cities  in  that  land,  and  notwith- 
standing the  fact  that  the  officers  of 
the  law  were  watching  for  us,  our 
enemies  were  on  the  lookout  for  us 
in  all  the  cities  of  that  land ;  yet 
from  time  to  time  we  visited  those 
cities,  and  we  preached  the  gospel 
of  Christ  unto  them  unmolested.  I 
want  to  say  to  you  here,  when  I 
came  out  of  that  house  of  judgment 
I  was  directed  to  the  American 
Consul,  and  if  ever  in  my  life  my 
heart  was  touched,  it  was  when  I 
passed  before  that  building  where 
was  located  the  American  consul- 
late,  and  there  I  saw  the  Stars  and 
Stripes  unfolded.  If  ever  my  heart 
went  out  in  gratitude  to  God  that  I 
was  born  under  the  Stars  and 
Stripes,  I  felt  then  like  bowing  my 
knees  and  thanking  God  for  the 
flag,  which  declares  peace  and  lib- 
erty to  all  men ;  and  in  my  soul  I 
felt  that  the  time  sometime  will 
come  when  freedom  will  reign  in 
that  great  land  of  Germany,  when 
they  will,  in  the  providences  of  our 
heavenly  Father,  have  a  land  of 
freedom  in  that  country,  when  men 
can  go  and  proclaim  their  belief  in 
God  according  to  the  dictates  of 
their  conscience,  and  proclaim  it  in 
that  land  as  they  can  now  do  it  in 
the  land  of  America,  the  land  of 
the  Stars  and  Stripes. 


That  was  my  thought  and  desire 
when  I  visited  that  splendid  peo- 
ple, and  I  want  to  say  here  that  the 
masses  of  the  people  in  Germany 
today  are  not  responsible  for  the 
conditions  that  exist  in  their  land. 
There  is  the  blood  of  Israel  in  their 
veins.  The  handdealings  of  the 
Lord  will  be  meted  out  in  justice 
unto  the  rulers  of  that  people,  and 
the  time  will  come,  and  is  not  far 
distant,  when  the  meek  and  the 
lowly,  the  humble,  in  that  land  will 
have  the  privilege  of  hearing  and 
embracing  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  In  all  my  experience  in  the 
German  mission — and  in  my  ex- 
periences I  met  some  sad  ones — it 
was  my  privilege,  my  duty,  I  will 
say,  to  lay  away  two  of  our  elders 
who  were  overcome  in  sickness.  We 
sent  the  body  of  one  of  them  to  his 
native  land.  The  other  one  today 
lies  in  the  cemetery,  near  Berb'n.  It 
was  indeed  a  sad  time  in  my  life 
when  I  laid  his  remains  to  rest  in 
that  foreign  land.  But  I  have  burn- 
ing in  my  soul  a  testimony  that,  on 
that  great  day  which  we  commemo- 
rate today,  the  spirit  which  actuated 
the  body  of  Brother  Coombs  who 
lies  there  will  again  take  up  its 
abode,  and  he  will  have  a  part  in 
that  glorious  resurrection  of  the 
just. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  testify 
to  you  that  this  is  God's  work,  in 
which  we  are  engaged,  and  the  only 
things  that  can  prevent  us  from  en- 
ioying  the  blessings  and  the  prom- 
ises of  the  gospel  are  our  own  sins 
and  transgressions. 

Of  all  those  trials  that  I  have 
borne  in  the  misssion  field,  there 
was  one  more  trial  that  was  harder 
to  me  than  them  all,  that  was  the 
time  when  one  of  our  elders — only 
one  in  all  the  time  that  I  was  in 
that  mission — transgressed  the  laws 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  God,  and  when  I  had  to  send 
the  recommendation  for  his  return 
dishonorably.  My  brethren  and 
sisters,  there  was  a  trembling  in  my 
heart  and  in  my  hand  when  I  had 
to  sign  the  dishonorable  release  of 
one  of  our  elders. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  May  the  spirit  of  this  con- 
ference go  home  with  you,  and  may 
it  be  disseminated  in  your  hearts. 
May  your  little  ones,  your  sons  and 
your  daughters,  partake  of  that 
good  spirit  and  influence  that  has 
been  made  manifest  here  in  this 
conference.  God  bless  you,  is  my 
prayer  and  testimony,  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

An  Easter  anthem  was  sung  by 
Don  Priestly  and  the  choir:  "Ho- 
zanna !" 

President  Melvin  J.  Ballard  of 
the  Northwestern  States  mission 
presented  the  names  of  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church,  as  pre- 
sented in  the  session  at  the  Taber- 
nacle. Each  and  all  were  sustained 
by  unanimous  vote,  in  the  positions 
named. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 

(President  of  the   Northwestern   States 
Mission.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  In  con- 
clusion, I  desire  to  add  my  testi- 
mony to  that  of  my  brethren.  My 
heart  has  rejoiced  through  this  con- 
ference that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
have  the  opportunity,  the  wonderful 
privilege,  to  be  guided  by  the  word 
of  the  Lord  ;  for,  go  where  you  will 
in  the  world,  unrest  is  there,  un- 
certainty, men  are  wondering  what 
is  coming;  their  hearts  are  filled 
with  anxiety,  they  are  asking  the 
question,  "Watchman,  what  of  the 


hour?"  and  none  seems  able  to  an- 
swer. Our  watchmen  have  an- 
swered us  in  this  conference,  from 
the  chief  watchman  to  those  who 
stand  with  him.  They  have  told  us 
of  the  hour.  They  have  advised 
us  what  is  coming  and  what  shall 
be,  and  have  pointed  out  to  us  our 
duty  as  members  of  the  Church. 

I  rejoice  in  the  comfort,  the  con- 
solation, the  safety  and  security 
with  which  we  are  surrounded,  with 
wise  counselors  inspired  of  the 
Lord  to  direct  Israel  in  these  mo- 
mentous and  wonderful  times ; 
and  I  feel  that  it  is  a  time  of  all 
times  in  the  history  of  this  Church 
for  Latter-day  Saints  to  live  their 
religion,  to  stand  in  holy  places,  and 
"watch  the  salvation  of  God,"  as  it 
shall  be  worked  out  in  the  midst  of 
the  nations  of  the  earth,  and  fear 
not  for  the  future,  so  long  as  we 
keep  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord. 

I  .doubt  not  that  God  lives.  His 
providence  is  over  his  Church  and 
over  the  world,  and  a  good  time  is 
coming.  I  can  see  behind  the  dark 
clouds  present,  the  silver  lining  of 
a  better  day,  the  glorious  consum- 
mation of  those  precious  promises 
that  have  inspired  the  utterances 
of  the  prophets  of  God  from  the 
beginning  until  this  day,  that  this  is 
but  preparation  for  the  coming  of 
the  great  Son  of  God  to  live  upon 
the  earth. 

I  am  loyal  to  my  country.  I 
want  my  young  brethren  and  sisters 
to  feel  that  the  institutions  founded 
and  established  in  America  are 
God-given;  the  constitution  of  the 
United  States  is  a  revelation  from 
the  Lord,  for  all  the  earth,  and  not 
only  for  America ;  and  that  the 
Lord  has  committed  unto  this  land 
the  mission  of  lifting  up  an  ensign 
to  the  nations  of  the  earth.    And  if 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


121 


the  nations  of  the  earth  had  heeded 
the  warning,  the  invitation  and  the 
message,  no  such  trouble  and  mis- 
trust as  we  now  see  would  have 
been  among  men.  But  they  would 
not  heed ;  those  who  had  for  ages 
believed  that  by  divine  right  they 
ruled  and  governed  would  not  yield 
to  God's  plan  wherein  he  advised 
when  this  great  instrument  was 
established,  the  constitution  of  the 
United  States,  that  into  the  hands 
of  the  people  shall  be  given  the 
right  to  the  people  to  change  the 
rulers  and  to  govern  themselves. 
And  this  is  only  a  short  cut  to  the 
glorious  end  to  establish  equity  and 
justice  in  the  earth.  I  cannot  help 
but  feel  that  there  has  been  a  won- 
derful providence  of  the  Lord  over 
America.  The  Book  of  Mormon 
is  full  of  promises  and  predictions 
concerning  the  future  of  America. 
It  is  a  land  of  liberty,  and  the  peo- 
ple shall  be  preserved  against  all 
other  peoples  as  long  as  the  people 
of  this  land  serve  God  and  keep  his 
commandments.  I  feel  that  it  is 
also  essential  and  important  that  we 
shall  not  lose  sight  of  this  latter 
injunction,  namely,  that  if  we  are 
to  hold  our  place  as  a  nation  and  be 
ourselves  preserved  from  disrup- 
tion and  disintegration,  it  shall  be 
upon  the  basis  that  we,  not  only  the 
Latter-day  Saints  but  all  the  people 
of  this  land,  observe  the  law  of  the 
Lord,  and  believe  in  God  and  keep 
his  commandments,  or  chastisement 
shall  come  also  to  the  peoples  of 
this  land.  I  do  not  fear  but  that 
even  yet,  notwithstanding  the  wick- 
edness that  now  abounds,  the  Lord 
loves  this  nation,  and  that  he  still  la- 
bors with  us,  and  that  he  will  bring 
us  into  our  right  place  and  position. 
And  my  heart  goes  out  now  in  a 
feeling  that  the  present  trouble  into 
which  we  are  coming  is  only,  per- 


haps, to  call  us  also  to  repentance. 
I  have  witnessed  in  the  British 
Columbia  section  of  the  Northwest- 
ern states  mission,  from  where  so 
many  have  gone  to  the  war,  scarcely 
a  home  from  which  a  relative  has 
not  gone,  or  has  had  a  willingness 
to  turn  his  hand  to  the  defense  of 
the  'right.  I  feel  that  that  spirit  of 
stopping  and  looking  and  listening 
to  the  word  of  the  Lord  will  come 
when  from  the  American  homes  the 
feeling  shall  come  that  is  enter- 
tained for  loved  ones  that  have 
gone  to  the  front.  I  feel  that  it  is 
right  and  proper  that  we  should 
take  part  in  this  trouble,  that  we 
will  be  more  organized  and  more 
brought  back  to  the  ideals  of  the 
establishers  of  this  great  govern- 
ment. 

Some  have  interpreted  Nebu- 
chadnezzar's dream  so  as  to  make 
it  apply  to  the  establishment  of  the 
kingdom  of  God  in  the  latter-days ; 
have  interpreted  its  fulfilment  as 
meaning  the  establishment  of 
America.  Others  have  given  other 
interpretations.  But  I  can  feel  in 
my  heart  a  growing  love  the  more 
I  know  of  the  gospel  of  the  Son 
of  God,  the  more  I  appreciate 
America,  and  the  more  I  love  the 
institutions  of  this  land.  If  there 
is  anything  that  inspires  me  with 
the  glorious  mission  of  America,  it 
is  the  knowledge  of  the  Son  of  God 
and  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  I  can  see  no  compet'tion 
between  the  mission  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  and  America  among 
the  nations  of  the  earth.  We  have 
largely  felt,  and  we  were  right 
when  we  felt,  that  when  the  Lord 
spoke  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
he  cut  a  stone  out  of  the  mountains 
without  hands,  so  to  speak,  the 
stone  that  would  roll  forth  and  fill 
the  whole  earth.    This  is  indeed  the 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


work  that  is  to  grow  and  to  roll 
forth  to  fill  the  whole  earth,  and  I 
am  coming  to  feel  in  my  soul  that 
only  a  part,  perhaps,  of  that  great 
vision  has  reference  to  us ;  and  yet 
I  am  conscious  of  the  fact,  or  feel 
in  my  soul,  that  a  part  of  the  mirac- 
ulous work,  the  kingdom  of  God, 
unlike  the  kingdoms  of  this  world, 
which  are  political,  the  kingdom  of 
Go.d  is  spiritual,  it  is  religious,  and 
it  gives  to  man  the  consolation  that 
in  it  is  found  the  solution  of  all  the 
problems  of  life ;  and  I  feel  that 
in  the  two  important  matters,  the 
establishment  of  the  United  States 
of  America  among  the  nations  of 
the  earth  and  the  establishment  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  again 
in  the  earth,  is  the  fulfilment  of  that 
wonderful  prophecy.  These  two 
shall  go  forth  as  twin  images,  and 
not  as  competitors,  one  helping  and 
sustaining  the  other.  For  I  believe 
that  the  most  patriotic  thing  that 
the  Latter-day  Saints  can  do  is  to 
save  America  and  the  Americans 
from  sin.  and  from  violating  the  law 
of  the  Lord,  and  if  they  will  do 
this,  this  nation  will  prevail  and 
shall  not  come  to  trouble.  So  that 
I  feel  that  there  can  be  no  compe- 
tition to  come  from  the  conditions 
we  now  see  being  brought  about. 
America  has  lent  her  powerful  in- 
fluence, making  it  possible  in  this 
free  country  for  the  truth  to  be 
established  and  to  go  unto  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth,  for  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  to  be  organized  and 
grow  and  develop ;  protected  with 
her  tremendous  power  to  protect 
the  elders  of  this  Church,  and  so  it 
will  be  in  the  future.  These  two 
will  go  forward  in  the  future  ful- 
filing  their  mission,  and  holding  up 
to  the  nations  the  ensign  of  free- 
dom and  of  truth.  And  other  na- 
tions like  Russia  will  shake  off  their 


shackles  and  come  forth  unto  their 
own,  to  the  enjoyment  of  liberty 
and  freedom  and  truth,  and  right. 
There  shall  be  an  emancipation 
of  the  people,  and  they  shall  look 
up  to  America,  and  thus  these  two 
shall  go  along,  equally,  and  more 
especially  working  for  the  princi- 
ples of  law  and  of  righteousness  in 
politics  and  in  the  affairs  of  men, 
and  bringing  peace  and  good  will  to 
men,  which  cannot  come  to  mankind 
outside  of  the  adoption  and  the  ac- 
ceptance of  the  gospel  of  the  Son 
of  God.  So  the  greater  mission 
rests  upon  our  nation,  to  go  where 
the  elders  of  this  Church  shall  go, 
to  extend  the  message  of  this  gos- 
pel, and  to  wipe  aside  the  prejudice 
and  the  darkne  ss  that  rest  upon 
the  minds  of  the  children  of  men ; 
and  they  shall  be  taught  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and 
that  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of 
the  Son  of  God  are  true,  and  will 
emancipate  men  and  bring  them 
into  the  true  knowledge  of  his  wis- 
dom and  his  love.  That  is  my  hope, 
and  I  would  not  put  a  straw  in  the 
way  of  a  patriotic  young  man  who 
wants  to  enlist  in  the  service  of  his 
country;  but  .do  not  forget  the 
other,  let  him  carry  with  him  the 
principles  and  the  love  of  the  truth. 
This  country  can  take  part  in  the 
establishment  of  righteousness 
politically,  but  only  a  few  have  yet 
carried  the  mighty  responsibility 
of  holding  the  power  that 
bears  the  world's  destinies  in  its 
hands ;  for  we  have  been  called  here, 
not  to  be  isolated  from  the  peoples 
of  the  world,  but  to  train  and  teach 
them  to  go  forth  as  teachers  to  all 
the  world,  and  it  is  our  mission  to 
go  and  lift  up  the  ensign  of  this 
gospel  to  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
and  only  "Mormon"  elders  can 
do  it. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


123 


So,  as  one  calling  now  for  re- 
cruits, for  soldiers  of  Christ,  I  am 
calling  for  those  who  do  not  hesi- 
tate to  come,  and  to  those  who  have 
not  yet  entered  into  the  ministry  of 
the  Lord  Jesus,  and  I  testify  there 
is  coming  an  awakening  of  our 
brethren  and  sisters  such  as  we  have 
never  witnessed  before.  Thou- 
sands will  heed  the  call  where  hun- 
dreds (go  today  into  the  field  and 
bear  off  the  great  and  responsible 
work  that  the  Lord  has  placed  upon 
our  shoulders.  So  this,  too,  is  patri- 
otic for  America  and  for  the  whole 
world.  Do  not  forget  it  in  the 
midst  of  the  enthusiasm  of  the  mo- 
ment. I  feel  that  we  should  re- 
member our  obligations  to  the  Lord 
and  to  the  world. 

I  know  as  I  live  that  this  gospel 
is  the  simple  truth,  and  that  no  pos- 
sibility ever  shall  come,  now,  hence- 
forth nor  forever,  for  men  to  find 
peace  on  earth  and  salvation  in  the 
kingdom  of  God  without  this  gos- 
pel. I  know  it  is  true.  I  know  that 
the  Latter-day  Saint  boys  and  girls 
who  will  stand  faithful  will  win  the 
laurels  and  plaudits  of  the  world. 
I  heard  a  man  of  national  note  say 
to  a  group  of  our  "Mormon"  mis- 
sionaries, lately,  in  the  city  of  Port- 
land, this  :  He  turned  to  them,  and 
asked  them,  "Do  you  desire  to  stand 
in  meekness  before  the  world  ?  If 
von  do,  stick  to  the  fa'th  of  your 
fathers,  follow  their  example,  for 
what  they  did  is  what  the  world 
wants,  and  do  not  follow  the  fai- 
lancy,  the  false  philosophy  and  the 
vanity  of  the  world.  Stay  by  the 
standard  of  your  fathers,  and  you 
will  win  the  highest  place  of  honor 
and  distinction  in  the  world."  I 
know  that  is  true,  and  O,  after  you 
have  fought  the  battle  and  kept  the 
faith,  the  joy,  the  consolation  and 
the  glory  of  those  who  win  is  be- 


yond any  power  of  tongue  to  de- 
scribe, for  you  cannot  conceive  it. 
I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives. 
Men  may  doubt,  men  may  be  filled 
with  the  spirit  of  uncertainty  with 
reference  to  these  troubles;  but  we 
know,  not  by  reason  so  much,  but 
by  the  power  that  touches  and  con- 
trols us,  that  God  lives  and  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ, — know  it  just  as 
I  know  when  I  strike  your  hand 
I  feel  its  pressure  upon  mine.  When 
I  put  my  arm  around  you,  do  you 
not  feel  that  I  live?  Yes.  Equally 
sure  am  I  that  my  Redeemer  lives, 
and  that  he  will  come  again  to  live 
upon  the  earth,  and  that  he  is  with 
this  Church. 

God  help  us  as  we  go  now  from 
this  house  to  keep  the  faith,  and  to 
heed  the  warning  voice  of  the 
watchmen  and  servants  of  the 
Lord,  that  we  may  stand  blameless 
and  secure  in  safety  as  we  see  the 
plans  of  God  working  out  in  the 
midst  of  the  nations  of  the  earth,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  choir  sang  an  anthem  :  "Gos- 
pel restoration,"  followed  by  the 
Doxology,  and  the  assembly  was 
dismissed  by  prayer  by  Elder  Grant 
of  the  Big  Horn  stake. 


SECOND  MEETING 
OUT-DOORS. 

A  second  outdoor  meeting  was 
held  in  front  of  the  Bureau  of  In- 
formation building  at  2  p.  m.,  Elder 
Charles  A.  Callis,  president  of  the 
Southern  States  mission,  presiding. 

The  singing  was  furnished  by  the 
Swedish  choir  of  Ensign  stake,  Dr. 
G.  W.  Teudt,  director/ 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  choir  sang :    "Now  let  us  re- 
joice in  the  day  of  salvation." 

Prayer   by    Elder   James   Blake, 
Sugar  City,  Idaho. 

.The  choir  sang:     "Rouse,  O  ye 
mortals." 


ELDER  JOSEPH  R.  SHEPHERD. 

(President  of  the   Bear   Lake   Stake/) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  and 
friends:  I  pray  that  you  will  give  me 
your  sympathy,  your  faith  and  your 
prayers,  that  for  the  short  .time  I 
may  address  you,  that  I  may  have 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  that  I  may 
say  something  to  this  assemblage 
that  will  be  profitable.  This  is  a 
new  experience  to  me,  and  yet  this 
sight  that  I  see  before  me  ought  to 
be  sufficient  inspiration  to  draw 
forth  from  the  speaker  the  best  that 
he  has  to  give.  This  is  certainly  a 
most  inspiring  sight  to  look  upon : 
thousands  of  the  hosts  of  Israel 
who  have  gathered  on  these 
grounds  today  to  hear  the  word  of 
the  Lord. 

I  have  been  very  much  interested 
during  the  sessions  of  this  confer- 
ence. I  have  been  impressed  with 
the  thought  that  it  is  wonderful  that 
the  multitudes  from  various  foreign 
countries  have  assembled  here  to 
verify  and  to  testify  to  the  divinity 
of  this  work  and  the  fulfilment  of 
prophecy.  I  remember  very  well,  as 
a  small  boy  listening  to  two  elders 
from  Utah  speaking  in  a  gravel 
pit  in  Hampshire,  England.  I  re- 
member distinctly  the  nature  of 
their  message  to  those  who  came  to 
hear  them.  Though  I  was  but  a 
small  boy  at  that  time,  the  words 
which  they  uttered  and  the  scrip- 
ture they  quoted,  made  a  very  deep 
impression  upon  my  mind.  I  re- 
member very  distinctly  one  elder  re- 


peating that  oft-quoted  passage  of 
scripture,  "Come  out  of  her,  O  ye 
my  people,  that  ye  receive  not  of 
her  sins,  and  partake  not  of  her 
plagues."  I  know  very  well  that 
that  message  has  been  declared  un- 
to many  of  the  nations  of  the  earth 
by  the  elders  of  the  Church  in  ful- 
filment of  the  prophecv  contained  in 
the  New  Testament.  Hundreds  and 
thousands  have  listened  to  that 
warning  voice,  and  have  gathered 
from  nearly  every  nation  under  the 
sun.  I  presume  if  we  were  to  take 
the  time  this  afternoon  to  ask  of 
this  vast  multitude  here :.  What  na- 
tions of  the  earth  are  represented 
here  ?  we  would  find  a  large  num- 
ber represented. 

"Surely  the  Lord  God  doeth 
nothing  but  he  revealeth  his  secrets 
to  his  servants  the  prophets."  The 
mission  of  this  Church  has  been  and 
is  to  declare  this  warning  message 
to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  Many 
have  listened  to  the  warning  voice, 
and  hundreds  and  thousands  of 
those  who  have  listened  have  gath- 
ered to  this  favored  land  of  Joseph, 
this  land  that  is  choice  above  all 
other  lands.  They  have  come  here, 
and,  instead  of  being  in  the  unfor- 
tunate condition  of  hundreds  of 
thousands  in  the  older  countries, 
they  have  been  permitted  to  engage 
in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  They 
have  worked  in  the  temples  of  the 
Lord.  Their  energies  have  been 
spent  in  saving  the  souls  of  men, 
rather  than  in  the  destruction  of 
life. 

I  do  not  know  what  would  have 
been  my  lot  had  not  my  father  and 
mother,  and  other  members  of  our 
family,  heard  the  warning  voice  and 
gathered  to  Zion.  Of  one  thing  I 
am  sure,  that  I  would  not  have 
received  the  blessings  that  I  have 
received  here.    Of  all  people  on  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  R.  SHEPHERD. 


125 


face  of  the  earth,  we  ought  to  be 
grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 
Of  all  people  in  this  beloved  coun- 
try of  ours,  there  are  none  who 
can  really  understand  as  fully  as  do 
we,  the  glorious  benefits  of  this 
country  of  ours,  this  adopted  coun- 
try of  ours ;  because,  as  Latter-day 
Saints,  we  have  a  religious  convic- 
tion that  this  nation  was  estab- 
lished by  the  inspiration  of  God  our 
heavenly  Father.  We  believe  that 
its  constitution  is  an  inspired  docu- 
ment. We  have  been  taught  this  in 
our  organizations  and  in  all  of  our 
gatherings  throughout  the  Church. 
It  is  a  part  of  our  faith.  We  are 
devoted  to  this  country  of  ours,  not 
merely  because  of  the  financial  ben- 
efits that  accrue  from  being  citizens 
of  this  great  country,  and  that  is  no 
inconsiderable  thing,  but  because 
we  believe  that  this  land,  North  and 
South  America,  has  been  held  in 
reservation  for  the  gathering  place 
of  the  House  of  Israel  from  all  over 
the  world.  Here,  today,  are  hun- 
dreds and  thousands,  no  doubt,  who 
have  either  gathered  from  the  old 
world  or  are  the  sons  and  daughters 
of  those  who  have  come  from  the 
old  world. 

We  believe  that  God  intended 
that  upon  this  land  the  true  princi- 
ples of  liberty,  justice,  equality,  and 
righteousness  should  prevail.  The 
Lord  knew  that  in  the  despotic 
governments  of  the  world  these 
things  could  not  prevail.  He  knew 
what  the  conditions  were :  and,  ac- 
cording to  the  words  of  the  Lord 
spoken  through  his  prophets,  this 
land  was  dedicated  and  consecrated 
and  set  apart  for  this  particular 
purpose.  We  are  here  in  fulfilment 
of  that  prophecy.  God's  Church 
has  been  established  upon  this  land. 
No  other  land  offered  the  condi- 
tions that  were  necessary ;  from  the 


beginning  of  this  Church  up  to  the 
present  time,  Latter-day  Saints, 
consequently,  have  had  a  deep  and 
a  reverent  regard  for  the  govern- 
ment of  this  land.  When  I  read 
the  other  day  the  message  of  the 
President  of  our  beloved  country, 
as  he  delivered  it  to  Congress,  and 
there  as  the  Chief  Executive  of  this 
great  country,  reiterated  the  very 
principles  which  God,  through  his 
ancient  prophets,  had  written,  my 
heart  rejoiced.  I  could  see  that  the 
Lord's  word  was  being  fulfilled. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  need 
not  fear  as  to  what  the  outcome  of 
this  Nation  in  her  present  struggle 
or  conflict  with  other  nations  may 
be ;  because,  so  long  as  this  govern- 
ment shall  stand  for  the  principles 
of  liberty  and  justice,  freedom  in 
its  true  sense,  and  will  acknowledge 
God  the  eternal  Father  as  the  giver 
of  all  good,  and  defend  those  prin- 
ciples, God  has  declared,  and  you 
may  read  it  in  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, that  he  will  fight  her  battles, 
he  will  guard  her  interests,  he  will 
take  care  of  her,  and  he  will  fight 
the  battles  of  Zion !  I  have  no  fear 
so  far  as  this  Nation  is  concerned, 
just  as  long  as  it  will  remain  true 
and  faithful  to  those  sacred  princi- 
ples. Loyal  and  patriotic  as  they 
may  be,  no  other  people  fn  this 
great  country  of  ours  has  the  deep- 
seated  conviction  that  we  have.  It 
is  a  part  of  our  faith,  it  is  a  part 
of  that  which  we  have  been  taught 
and  believe  with  all  of  our  hearts  to 
be  the  very  truth.  As  a  nation,  God 
will  protect  us,  because  this  is  his 
selected  spot.  It  is  the  spot  to 
which  all  of  Israel  will  gather. 

The  Lord  will  also  gather  the 
Jews  to  Jerusalem,  just  as  truly  as 
Israel  will  gather  here,  and  the 
word  of  the  Lord  will  go  forth 
from  Jerusalem,  and  the  law  of  the 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE: 


Lord  will  go  forth  from  Zion. 
When  I  read  the  newspapers  and 
see  how  the  Holy  Land  on  the  east- 
ern continent  is  gradually  being 
prepared  by  reason'  of  this  terrible 
catastrophe  which  has  befallen  the 
nations  through  their  disobedience, 
I  can  see  how  the  way  is  being 
prepared  for  the  return  of  the  Jews 
to  Jerusalem.  When  I  saw  that 
wonderful  achievement  wrought  in 
Russia,  in  so  short  a  time,  whereby 
religious  freedom  and  the  liberty  of 
the  press  was  granted  to  that  down- 
trodden people,  and  when  I  heard 
of  the  thousands  and  thousands  of 
the  Jewish  race  who  were  being 
freed  from  bondage  and  slavery,  I 
thought  I  could  see  again  how  the 
people  of  those  countries  were 
bringing  to  pass  the  predictions  of 
the  servants  of  the  Lord. 

So,  if  we  are  faithful  and  watch- 
ful and  prayerful,  we  can  see  the 
hand  dealings  of  God  every  day 
of  our  lives.  We  can  see  the  fulfil- 
ment of  prophecy  every  day  of  our 
lives.  I  never  knew  so  many  proph- 
ecies of  the  servants  of  God  to  be 
fulfilled  in  so  short  a  time,  as  have 
been  in  the  last  few  years. 

We  should  rejoice  that  we  are  in 
possession  of  these  things,  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  and  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants.  See  what  the  Lord 
revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph. 
Read  Section  I  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  the  preface  to  the  book, 
where  the  Lord  declares  that  the 
mission  of  this  Church  is  to  go  into 
the  nations  of  the  earth  and  warn 
them  of  the  judgment  that  is  to 
come,  and  the  wars  and  tribulations 
to  come  upon  the  nations  of  the 
earth.  These  conditions  that  pre- 
vail in  the  European  countries  to- 
day are  but  the  natural  result  of 
the  disobedience  and  the  wicked- 
ness of  the  people,  and  that  is  why 


the  Lord  has  made  known  to  the 
nations  through  his  prophets  what 
would  co'me  to  pass.  He  foresaw 
their  wickedness,  he  knew  what 
would  be  the  result  of  their  diso- 
bedience, and  many  of .  the  honest 
in  heart,  many  of  the  House  of 
Israel,  have  been  gathered  out  by 
reason  of  listening  to  the  warning 
voice  of  the  servants  of  God. 

Let  us  remain  true  and  faithful, 
let  us  rejoice  in  the  thought  that 
we  are  members  of  the  Church  of 
Christ  restored  in  our  day.  Let  us 
esteem  it  the  greatest  blessing  that 
could  come  to  us,  and  along  with 
that  ,let  us  rejoice  in  the  blessed 
thought  that  we  too  are  citizens  of 
the  greatest  and  the  noblest  and 
the  best  government  upon  the  face 
of  the  land,  the  government  under 
which  the  Church  of  Christ  exists ; 
and  we,  the  Latter-day  Saints,  be- 
lieving as  we  do,  will  be  among  the 
foremost  of  the  citizenship  of  this 
country  of  ours  in  defending  the 
principles  for  which  it  stands,  of 
proclaiming   liberty   to    all    people. 

I  am  one  who  is  simple-minded 
enough  to  believe  that  God  Al- 
mighty has  already  fought  the  bat- 
tles of  our  government.  I  believe 
God  was  with  this  country  at  the 
time  of  the  Revolution.  I  do  not 
think  that  without  the  blessing  and 
the  aid  our  our  heavenly  Father,  so 
great  a  work  would  have  been  ac- 
complished as  was  done  then.  And 
following  right  down,  I  believe  that 
God  was  with  our  navy  at  Manila 
when  that  wonderful  victory  was 
gained  by  this  country.  Why?  Be- 
cause this  country  was  defending 
those  sacred  principles  for  which 
this  country  stands,  and  because  of 
wh:ch  God  said  that  he  would 
fight  her  battles.  I  have  no  fear  so 
long  as  we  stand  for  those  sacred 
principles,  so  long  as  we  shall  not 


ELDER  JOSEPH  R.  SHEPHERD. 


127 


deviate  from  them,  so  long  as  we 
shall  not  fight  for  conquest  or 
aggrandizement,  but  for  the  exten- 
sion of  those  sacred  principles  nec- 
essary for  the  alleviation  of  the  con- 
dition of  the  people  of  the  world. 
Just  so  long  shall  we  be  protected 
by  Divine  Providence. 

This  is  my  testimony  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters.  I  am  thank- 
ful that  I  am  a  Latter-day  Saint.  I 
want  to  be  true  to  the  covenants 
that  I  have  made ;  and  we  want  the 
world  to  know,  and  everyone  in 
this  country  to  know,  that  there  are 
no  more  faithful,  loyal  people  up- 
on this  land,  or  people  who  have  a 
higher  regard  for  the  principles  of 
this  government,  or  will  do  more 
to  maintain  those  principles,  than 
will  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We  be- 
lieve in  the  divine  mission  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  this  is 
the  message  that  he  delivered  to 
this  people.  Through  him  we  have 
received  this  knowledge,  and  be- 
cause of  it  we  believe  that  we  will 
be  foremost  in  the  defense  of  these 
things. 

May  God  help  us  to  be  true  and 
faithful  as  members  of  his  Church, 
and  when  we  are  true  and  faithful 
Latter-day  Saints,  we  are  the  high- 
est type  of  American  citizenship 
that  can  be  produced.  May  God 
help  us  to  be  so!    Amen. 

ELDER  EDWARD  J.  WOOD. 

(President     of     the     Alberta     Stake, 
Canada.) 

I  am  from  Canada,  "men  of  the 
North  are  we."  We  have  been  at 
war,  assisting  our  mother  country 
for  upwards  of  three  years.  Hav- 
ing been  born  here  in  Salt  Lake, 
but  now  being  a  citizen  of  Canada, 
I  am  pleased  with  the  attitude  of 
my  Uncle  Sam. 


We  have  nearly  fifty  of  our  finest 
young  men  right  at  the  front  in 
France  today.  Before  they  went, 
a  great  number  of  people  volun- 
teered their  services.  When  the  re- 
cruiting officers  came  in  our  section 
of  the  country,  they  did  not  go 
among  the  people  as  they  had  done 
among  other  people,  but  they  came 
in  our  Tabernacle  and  asked  that 
we  suit  ourselves  in  volunteering 
our  services.  In  doing  that,  they 
received  the  aid  and  the  assistance 
of  our  home  militia,  the  finest  body 
of  young  men  in  all  western  Can- 
ada, "Mormon"  boys,  who  had 
spent  upwards  of  seven  years  in 
training,  about  ten  days  each  year, 
and  who  had  won  high  honor  in  all 
the  competitions  open  to  the  home 
guard  of  Canada.  They  were  the 
boys,  seventy-five  of  them,  who 
kept  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  every 
one  of  them,  and  they  were  com- 
mented upon  by  the  highest  mili- 
tary officers  of  Canada.  When  we 
spoke  about  those  who  should  vol- 
unteer, the  officers  said,  "Give  us 
these  boys ;  we  know  them." 

The  boys  came,  and  under  the 
hands  of  those  who  preside,  re- 
ceived their  blessings,  and  not  one 
has  been  lost  in  all  the  armies  of 
Europe  among  the  Allied  portion, 
which  we  represent  and  of  which  we 
form  a  part. 

When  the  time  comes  for  any  of 
you  to  volunteer,  let  it  be  said  that 
the  very  best  young  men  go.  I  see 
the  wisdom  of  President  Wilson's 
suggestion  that  possibly  conscrip- 
tion should  be  put  in  force :  they 
want  the  good  men  to  go,  and  to 
get  them,  they  may  need  to  call 
them. 

Not  long  ago,  we  had  one  of  our 
missionaries  from  Switzerland,  who 
was  doing  missionary  work  in  Ger- 
many.    He  told  of  a  circumstance 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


which  shows  to  me  that  the  "Mor- 
mon" people  have  not  any  enmity 
in  their  hearts.  I  do  not  believe  any 
of  us  desire  to  kill  a  German  or  an 
Austrian  or  any  of  the  Teutonic 
nations  in  war,  except  as  we  may  be 
called  upon  to  defend  ourselves. 
Imagine  on  the  field  of  battle  a 
German  member  of  this  Church  re- 
ceiving also  under  the  hands  of  the 
missionaries  a  blessing  that  he 
should  go  in  battle,  and  that  he 
would  not  lose  his  life.  The  mis- 
sionary states  that  this  particular 
young  man  went  to  the  front,  his 
battalion  was  called  to  charge  upon 
the  English,  and  he  noticed  after 
the  charge  that  very  few  were  left. 
They  were  commanded  a  second 
time  to  charge.  He  remembered  the 
blessing  that  he  should  not  lose  his 
life,  and,  he  said,  they  made  the 
charge,  and  all  he  could  then  re- 
member was  that  he  should  not  be 
called  upon  to  shed  blood  nor  lose 
his  life,  and  he  wondered  how  it 
would  come  to  pass.  After  the 
charge" was  made  the  next  he  re- 
membered was  that  he  was  in  a 
hospital  in  Berlin. 

Our  boys  from  Canada  had  the 
same  blessing  given  to  them.  Imag- 
ine a  Canadian  and  a  German 
"Mormon"  boy  meeting  on  the  field 
of  battle,  each  with  that  promise 
that  they  would  not  be  called  upon 
to  shed  blood  nor  lose  their  life  in 
battle.  Can  you  see  any  better  so- 
lution to  universal  peace  than  by 
and  through  the  sensing  of  religion 
as  we  feel  it  as  Latter-day  Saints, 
commonly  called  "Mormons"  ?  So 
much  for  the  war. 

I  am  pleased  to  be  with  you  to- 
day, this  Easter  day.  We  heard  in 
the  Tabernacle  yesterday  and  this 
morning  some  very  splendid  dis- 
courses upon  the  theme  of  the  res- 
urrection of  the  body,  from  a  Scrip- 


tural standpoint.  Let  me  take  the 
time  to  tell  you  something  outside 
of  the  Scripture,  which  has  come 
under  my  personal  observation. 

We  have  to  the  north  and  the 
south  of  our  country  Indian  reser- 
vations. We  have  recently  had  an 
Indian  by  the  name  of  Brother 
Warner,  from  Parker,  Idaho,  come 
up  and  do  missionary  work  among 
the  Blood  and  Blackfoot  Indians 
across  the  border  in  Montana  from 
our  country.  He  and  a  young  man 
named  Galbraith — you  saw  his  pic- 
ture in  the  Era  a  few  months  ago, 
where  he  was  in  Washington  and 
introduced  to  the  President  of  the 
United  States.  He  went  there  in 
behalf  of  the  Indians  on  the  reser- 
vation in  making  their  allotments. 
His  mother  was  an  Indian,  a  Black- 
foot  woman.  His  father  was  an 
honorable  Scotchman  living  very 
close  to  our  country  on  the  Black- 
foot  reservation. 

This  Brother  Galbraith  had  a 
dream.  He  said  he  came  to  our 
meeting.  He  saw  in  the  meeting, 
in  his  dream,  four  or  five  old  Indian 
chiefs  siting  on  the  stand.  He 
knew  these  Indians  were  dead  and 
had  been  for  a  long  time.  One  of 
them  was  his  uncle.  The  highest 
point  on  the  Rocky  Mountains  near 
us  was  called  Old  Chief.  That  was 
the  name  of  his  uncle,  the  highest 
chief  among  the  Blackfoot  nation. 
He  said  as  he  went  into  the  audi- 
ence that  this  uncle  of  his  told  him 
to  come  up  on  the  stand  with  him, 
and  he  said  he  wondered  how  it 
was,  because  this  man  was  dead ; 
he  knew  this.  He  went  up  and  he 
heard  his  uncle  stand  up  and  preach 
a  sermon  to  the  audience  there  and 
turn  around  and  say,  "This  nephew 
of  mine  must  be  our  representative 
among  our  people."  Be  it  said  to 
Brother  Galbraith's  honor  that  al- 


ELDER  EDWARD  J.  WOOD. 


129 


though  a  half-breed  Indian,  he  hon- 
ors his  race  and  is  never  ashamed 
of  his  Indian  blood.  He  said  the 
man  spoke  in  a  language  he  could 
understand,  and  he  marveled  at  it. 

When  he  got  to  this,  Brother 
Galbraith  said,  "What  have  I  got  to 
do  ?"  He  said,  "You  see  a  book  on 
the  table" — and  he  pointed  to  a 
book  on  the  table — "that  book  con- 
tains the  history  of  our  people.  We 
are  what  people  call  all  dead,  and 
you  are  in  the  life,  with  the  book. 
It  will  be  told  to  you  what  to  do." 
He  awoke,  and  after  two  long 
years  of  investigating,  he  joined 
the  Church. 

When  Brother  Warner  came  up, 
by  permission  of  President  Ballard, 
he  went  over  and  visited  Brother 
Galbraith,  and  they  went  among  the 
Indians,  and  they  aroused  a  lot  of 
interest  among  the  Indians,  and 
held  a  meeting  in  a  half-caste's 
house.  There  sat  in  a  corner  a 
lady,  a  chief's  daughter,  and  a  man 
by  her  side,  who  was  a  half-caste. 
Brother  Galbraith  said  when  he 
looked  down  on  those  two  they  be- 
came almost  white  in  his  eyes. 
Whenever  he  spoke  about  the  Book 
of  Mormon  the  lady  would  appar- 
ently go  white,  and  he  marveled 
at  it.  When  he  got  through  the  man 
stood  up  and  said,  "I  know  more 
about  that  book  than  you  do, 
Brother  Galbraith.  I  can  see  that. 
Let  me  tell  you  what  I  know.  For 
three  consecutive  years  I  have 
taken  my  family  and  gone  off  into 
the  woods,  and  when  I  got  there 
(the  first  year  was  1914),  pitched 
my  tepee  and  went  off  in  the  forest. 
I  was  told  by  a  man  who  came  there 
to  meet  me  that  I  was  to  lie  down 
under  the  trees,  wrap  my  blankets 
around  me,  and  go  with  him  on  a 
journey.  So  I  did  it.  I  went  right 
off,  and  looked  down  on  my  body 


when  I  went  with  this  visitor — 
saw  an  Indian  there  wrapped  in  his 
blankets,  and  I  wondered  how  it 
was  that  I  was  living  and  yet  it  was 
I  there  wrapped  in  my  own  blank- 
ets. I  wondered  if  anybody  would 
come  along  and  bury  my  body  be- 
fore I  returned.  We  were  gone  a 
day,  and  the  visitor  had  taught  me, 
oh,  so  many  things — many  things 
you  would  not  believe  if  I  told  you. 
because  my  own  family  do  not  be- 
lieve them.  The  messenger  said  I 
was  to  come  in  1915,  and  I  did  it. 
I  went  again  on  the  journey.  In 
1916  the  messenger  said  to  me, 
after  taking  the  usual,  trip  and  see- 
ing my  body  there  wrapped  in  my 
blankets  as  before — and  after  the 
whole  tribe  called  me  a  visionary 
man — said,  'During  this  year  you 
will  have  a  little  dark  man  come 
to  you  with  a  book.  That  is  the 
book  that  will  tell  you  of  the  history 
of  your  people.'  " 

The  man  stood  up  and  said, 
"There  is  the  little  dark  man, 
Brother  Warner.  I  saw  him  here 
yesterday.  He  had  the  book  in  his 
hand.  The  old  Indian  told  him  to 
give  me  the  book,  and  I  have  longed 
for  it  for  three  years.  And  he  took 
it  and  wrapped  it  in  what  they  call 
their  sacred  cloth,  and  said  to  the 
man,  "Brother  Warner,  this  is  my 
book,  not  yours." 

He  did  not  want  anything  to  do 
with  the  Church  at  all — when  they 
held  a  public  meeting  he  went  off 
among  the  Indians  and  got  an  in- 
terpreter to  read  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon to  them. 

He  saw  his  body.  That  is  what 
I  want  to  impress  upon  you.  A 
great  many  of  us  Latter-day  Saints 
have  vague  ideas  of  what  the  resur- 
rection actually  is.  I  was  pleased 
to  feel  that  today  we  could  hold 
General  conference  on  the  day  com- 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


memorated  as  the  day  of  the  resur- 
rection of  Jesus  Christ.  Yet  how 
few  really  look  upon  the  resurrec- 
tion as  I  saw  it,  in  my  experience 
on  the  islands  of  the  Navigator 
Group,  in  1889. 

A  young  man  from  Provo — a 
great  many  know  him,  but  I  will 
not  mention  his  name  because  what 
happened  to  him  did  not  do  him 
much  good — was  told  by  his  mother 
not  to  go  in  bathing.  We  had 
been  accustomed  to  bathing  every 
day  in  the  ocean,  and  had  become 
good  swimmers  before  this  young- 
man  arrived.  I  coaxed  him  to  go 
in  swimming-  with  us  in  the  ocean. 
Those  of  you  who  have  come  from 
the  old  country  know  what  it  looks 
like  on  the  beach  when  the  tide  is 
out.  Those  islands  are  surround- 
ed by  a  coral  reef,  and  in  the  reef 
there  are  large  holes,  ten  to  eigh- 
teen feet  deep,  and  when  the  tide 
is  out,  we  wind  our  way,  guarding 
ourselves  from  the  holes,  until  we 
come  to  the  edge  of  the  reef.  Then 
we  dive  out  into  deep  water,  where 
we  used  to  anchor  our  boat. 

I  coaxed  this  young  man  to  go. 
We  got  our  bathing  suits,  and  he 
followed  me  out.  I  wound  my  way 
through  the  coral  reef,  and  swam 
out  to  where  three  others  of  our 
elders  were.  When  I  got  there,  one 
of  the  other  brethren  said,  "Did 
not  that  brother  follow  you  out?" 
I  said,  "Yes."  But  I  looked  around 
and  could  not  see  him'  anywhere. 
He  had  told  me  he  could  not  swim, 
and  I  thought  he  was  bathing  in 
the  shallow  water. 

We  swam  to  the  reef  and  hunted 
around  and  saw  the  young  man  in 
about  twelve  feet  of  water,  in  the 
attitude  of  prayer.  We  dove  down, 
lifted  his  body  up,  and  brought  it 
up  to  the  beach.  Blood  was  com- 
ing from  his  ears  and  mouth  and 


nose.  We  worked  with  him  until 
we  could  see  that  he  was  dead. 

You  can  hardly  imagine  my  feel- 
ings, feeling  myself  almost  respon- 
sible for  the  death  of  that  young- 
man.  The  natives  gathered  around 
and  said,  "It  is  sacreligious  to  work 
with  a  body  after  it  is  dead."  But 
I  suggested  to  the  mission  presi- 
dent that  we  take  him  into  a  house, 
dress  him  in  his  garments,  and  ad- 
minister to  him.  Then  I  should 
feel  more  satisfied.  We  worked  for 
over  forty  minutes  with  that  young 
man's  body,  carried  him  onto  the 
beach  with  his  head  down,  his  feet 
on  my  shoulders.  No  sign  of  life 
at  all. 

We  laid  his  body  on  a  table,  with 
over  five  hundred  natives  witness- 
ing the  ceremony  of  the  anointing 
with  oil.  We  anointed  him  and  we 
blessed  him.  I  felt  his  eyes  move 
under  my  hands,  and  he  awoke 
and  came  to,  and  asked  us  to  place 
him  up  on  the  table  and  he  would 
tell  us  what  he  saw,  "before  I  for- 
get it,"  he  said,  "for  I  can  feel  it 
Ls  going  from  me  just  like  I  might 
be  leaving  a  room." 

He  said,  "I  called,  when  I  got  in- 
to deep  water.  You  paid  no  atten- 
tion to  me,  and  the  last  thing  that 
I  thought  of  was  of  my  mother's 
admonishing  me  to  always  pray  in 
time  of  danger.  When  you  took 
my  body  out  of  the  water  I  was 
with  you.  When  you  walked  up 
and  down  the  beach  I  walked  up 
and  down  with  you.  I  saw  my  body. 
I  prayed  to  God  with  all  my  soul 
that  you  would  not  bury  me  nor 
consider  me  dead  until  you  exer- 
cised the  power  of  your  priesthood. 
I  was  told  by  something  that  it  was 
the  priesthood  that  had  the  power 
to  return  my  spirit  to  my  body. 
I  watched  you  all  the  time.  I  won- 
dered why  you  did  not  do  it,  hav- 


ELDER  EDWARD  J.  WOOD. 


131 


iiig  this  glorious  ordinance  in  the 
Church.  You  elders  apparently 
were  going  to  forget  all  about  it. 
And  oh,  how  glorious,  when  you 
exercised  your  priesthood  and  an- 
ointed me  with  oil  in  the  name  of  the 
Son  of  God  and  through  the  priest- 
hood which  you  had !  As  soon  as 
you  said  that,  my  spirit  body  en- 
tered my  physical  body."  I  am  here 
to  testify  unto  you  what  I  know  to 
be  a  positive  fact. 

This,  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, is  the  power  of  God  unto  sal- 
vation to  those  who  obey  and  be- 
lieve. By  that  power  does  the  res- 
urrection of  the  body  come.  I  do 
not  care  what  anybody  says  about 
this  resurrection  "fallacy,"  as  our 
esteemed  friends  term  it  sometimes. 
I  saw  that  thing  happen,  call  it 
what  you  will. 

God  bless  you.     Amen. 

A  double  male  quartet  from  the 
Swedish  choir  sang :  "Your  mother 
is  praying  for  you." 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  CHIPMAN. 

(President  of  the  Alpine  Stake.) 

-My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters, 
and  friends:  I  appreciate  having 
been  present  this  afternoon,  in  list- 
ening to  the  testimony  and  the  ex- 
hortation that  has  been  given  by  the 
brethren  who  have  preceded  me.  I 
am  here  in  response  to  the  call  of 
the  President  to  say  a  few  words, 
and  I  trust  that  I  can  enjoy  the 
same  sweet  influence  that  has  actu- 
ated the  brethren  who  have  pre- 
ceded me. 

I  was  particularly  impressed  with 
the  strong  testimony  that  was  borne 
by  President  Wood,  of  the  power 
of  God  in  behalf  of  this  young  man, 
and  also  with  the  story  that  was  re- 
lated of  the  brother  in  the  North ; 


and  I  was  led  in  my  mind  to  the 
scriptural  passage  concerning  Nico- 
demus,  who  came  to  the  Savior  and 
wanted  to  know  from  him  what  he 
should  do.  The  Savior  told  him, 
and  Nicodemus  marveled  at  what 
was  told  him,  and  could  not  under- 
stand it,  and  the  Savior  made  this 
remark,  "The  wind  bloweth  where 
it  listeth,  and  thou  hearest  the 
sound  thereof,  but  canst  not  tell 
whence  it  cometh,  and  whither  it 
goeth :  so  is  every  one  that  is  born 
of  the  Spirit."  I  thought  of  the 
power  of  God  that  was  manifest  in 
behalf  of  our  brother,  that  Brother 
Wood  could  not  understand  how  it 
was  brought  about,  could  not  com- 
prehend it.  We  do  not  understand 
it  any  more  than  we  understand 
where  this  breeze  that  is  blowing 
this  afternoon  comes  from  and 
where  it  goes,  but  we  do  know 
that  it  is  so,  and  he  said  that  he 
knew  that  God  raised  him  up  by 
his  power. 

And  yet,  sometimes  our  young 
people  are  skeptical  and  want  to 
reason  out  everything  by  the  rea- 
son of  man  before  they  believe  it  is 
true.  I  want  to  say  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  present,  and  especially 
our  young  men  and  young  women, 
that  the  things  of  God  are  not  un- 
derstood by  the  reasoning  of  man, 
but  they  are  understood  by  the 
Spirit  of.  God,  and  "the  wind  blow- 
eth where  it  listeth,  and  thou  hear- 
est the  sound  thereof,  but  canst  not 
tell  whence  it  cometh  and  whither  it 
goeth."  We  see  this  power  and,  as 
Brother  Wood  said,  we  know  of  a 
surety  that  it  is  of  God.  When  we 
testify  that  we  know  these  things, 
we  know  it  because  we  feel  it,  and 
while  we  may  not  always  be  able  to 
explain  to  the  comprehension  of  our 
young  people  just  how  we  know  it, 
we    know    it    just   as    well    as    we 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


know  that  we  live.  We  want  to  live 
by  this  power  and  testimony,  so  that 
we  will  cling  to  the  iron  rod,  and 
will  not  be  led  astray  by  the  wisdom 
and  by  the  cunning  craftiness  of 
men.  For  this  reason  God  has 
established  in  the  Church  men  to 
lead  and  guide  and  direct  us,  and 
it  is  up  to  us  to  have  faith  and  con- 
fidence in  these  men. 

I  will  say,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  I  represent  the  Alpine 
stake  of  Zion,  comprised  of  seven- 
teen wards,  in  the  north  end  of 
Utah  '  county,  a  part  of  the  old 
Utah  stake.  Our  stake  has  been 
organized  since  the  year  1901,  and 
we  have  been  presiding  in  that  lo- 
cality at  the  base  of  the  noble 
Timpanogos  mountain  and  by  the 
beautiful  Utah  lake  of  fresh  water. 
We  have  a  garden  spot,  a  most 
beautiful  place  to  live,  and  have  in 
that  locality  a  gathering  of  God's 
people,  who  are  industrious,  who 
are  serving  the  Lord,  building  up 
the  country,  and  developing  and 
growing  in  righteousness  and  good 
works,  and  we  are  raising  up  a 
class  of  young  people  in  our  com- 
munities who  are  faithful  and  true. 

However,  some  of  our  young 
men  and  young  women  are  careless 
and  neglectful,  with  all  our  schools, 
our  churches,  priesthood  quorums, 
improvement  associations,  and  the 
other  organizations  which  God  has 
inspired  his  servants  to  organize  in 
our  midst.  We  have  much  careless- 
ness, indifference,  and  forgetful- 
ness,  and  some  who  lack  respect  for 
the  priesthood  of  God,  and  for  their 
parents  and  those  who  preside  over 
them  in  the  Church.  We  are  labor- 
ing with  them  and  trying  to  impress 
them  with  faith  in  God,  with  good 
works,  that  they  may  grow  up  to 
be  useful  men  and  women  in  the 
Kingdom  of  God. 


I  will  say,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  I  do  not  desire  to  talk 
long.  My  voice  is  weak.  I  am  just 
recovering  now  from  an  operation, 
and  I  am  afraid  that  I  will  injure 
my  voice.  But  I  know  as  I  stand 
here  that  this  is  the  work  of  God. 
I  have  seen  his  power,  I  have  seen 
the  fulfilment  of  his  promises,  and 
my  desire  is  that  I  may  so  live  that  I 
may  enjoy  that  spirit  and  be  able  to 
impress  others  unto  good  works, 
that  they  may  take  mind  to  them- 
selves, and  grow  up  to  be  useful 
men  and  women  in  the  Church  of 
God  and  in  this  great  Government 
of  which  we  form  a  part.  And  may 
we  have  this  loyalty  and  testimony 
and  spirit  burning  in  our  hearts  for- 
ever, I  humply  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

ELDER  MARK  AUSTIN. 

(President  of  the  Fremont  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters  and 
friends,  I  was  especially  interested 
in.  the  story  that  was  told  us  -by 
Brother  Wood.  Sometime  before 
Brother  Warner  went  on  this 
mission,  as  he  lives  in  the  section  of 
the  country  from  whence  I  have 
come  recently,  I  was  on  the  train 
with  him,  and  he  said  to  me, 
"Brother  Austin,  I  feel  strongly 
impressed  that  I  should  say  to  the 
president  of  this  stake,  'President 
Miller,  I  should  have  a  mission  to 
go  unto  my  people.'  "  And  I  learned 
later  that  he  had  gone,  and  now  we 
have  learned  in  regard  to  that  mis- 
sion. Therefore  I  am  specially  in- 
terested, because  I  said  to  him, 
"You  should  see  your  president,  and 
notify  your  brethren  of  your  feel- 
ings in  regard  to  this  matter.  You 
are  impressed,  no  doubt,  with  the 
proper  spirit  in  behalf  of  your  kin- 
dred."    Brother  Warner  is  a  very 


ELDER  MARK  AUSTIN. 


133 


scholarly,  talented  gentleman,  a 
very  excellent  man,  a  splendid  type 
among  us,  and  he  has  performed 
a  very  wonderful  mission  accord- 
ing to  the  report  and  testimony  of 
President  Wood. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is 
about  twenty  years  since  I  spoke  in 
the  open  air  in  the  land  of  my  fath- 
ers, to  which  I  was  called  about 
twenty  years  ago — upon  the  streets 
of  old  England,  carrying  the  mes- 
sage which  had  been  revealed  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  for  the  salvation  of 
the  children  of  men,  and  I  rejoice 
in  that  work.  I  rejoice  today,  I  am 
glad  that  I  am  identified  with  this 
people  who  have  settled  in  these 
magnificent  valleys.  The  testimony 
of  their  worth  is  on  every  hand,  and 
the  words  that  have  been  spoken 
by  the  brethren  certainly  must  have 
found  lodgment  in  our  hearts,  and 
will  bear  fruit  if  we  desire  to  serve 
God  and  keep  his  commandments, 
and  we  have  in  our  hearts  to  do 
good  unto  the  children  of  men. 

I  do  not  .desire  to  take  further 
time.  I  want  to  hear  from  Brother 
Callis,  a  man  who  is  capable  and 
who  is  on  the  firing  line  and  who  is 
laboring  for  the  establishment  of 
the  truth  in  the  hearts  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  that  the  peace  that 
men  are  looking  for  may  come. 
There  is  no  possible  peace  without 
truth.      God  bless  you.     Amen. 

The  choir  sang  in  the  Swedish 
language :    "The  Prince  of  Peace." 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS. 

(Fresident    of    the     Southern     States 
Mission.) 

The  words  which  the  President 
of  the  Church  addressed  to  as- 
sembled Israel  in  the  first  session 
of  this  great  conference  were  the 
words  of  a  prophet  and  a  states- 


man. They  were  more,  they  were 
the  word  of  God  unto  this  people. 

The  newspapers  carried  a  state- 
ment a  day  or  two  ago  that  this 
nation's  resources  which  she  would 
assemble  for  war  beneath  her  star- 
ry flag  were  inexhaustible  and 
greater  than  the  resources  of  any 
other  nation  in  ancient  or  modern 
times.  Have  we  anything  more 
under  this  flag?  Yes,  we  have  the 
noblest  manhood  and  the  noblest 
womanhood  in  the  world. 

Are  these  sufficient?  No.  What 
more  do  we  need?  What  is  our 
daily  need  in  war  or  in  peace?  It 
is  God.  The  nation  whose  God  is 
the  Lord  shall  never  be  hurled 
down  to  defeat  and  disaster.  It  is 
remarkable  how  the  great  men  of 
the  earth  are  beginning  to  contem- 
plate the  greatness  of  this  nation 
and  are  beginning  to  see  that  this 
nation  will  lead  in  the  path  of  peace 
and  that  she  has  forces  to  redeem 
the  old  world  from  the  evils  which 
have  produced  this  war  which  is 
drenching  the  ground  of  the  old 
world  with  blood.  Listen  to  the 
words  of  the  American  historian, 
John  Lord: 

"But  has  America  a  higher  des- 
tiny than  to  repeat  the  old  ex- 
periments and  improve  upon  them 
and  become  rich  and  powerful? 
Has  she  no  higher  and  nobler  mis- 
sion? Can  she  lay  hold  of  forces 
that  the  old  world  never  had,  such 
as  will  prevent  the  uniform  doom 
of  "nations?  If  America  has  a  great 
mission  to  declare  and  to  fulfil, 
she  must  put  forth  altogether  new 
forces,  and  these  not  material.  And 
these  alone  will  save  her  and  save 
the  world. 

"We  believe  America  was  dis- 
covered not  so  much  to  furnish  a 
field  for  infinite  material  expan- 
sion with  European  arts  and  fash- 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ions,  which  would  simply  assim- 
ilate America  to  the  old  world, 
with  all  its  dangers  and  vices  and 
follies,  but  to  introduce  new  forms 
of  government,  new  social  insti- 
tutions, new  customs  and  manners, 
new  experiments  in  liberty,  new 
religious  organizations.  *  *  * 
Unless  something  new  is  born  here 
which  has  a  _  peculiar  power  to 
save,  wherein  will  America  ulti- 
mately differ  from  other  parts  of 
Christendom  ?" 

Has  America  introduced  new 
forms  of  government?  The  an- 
swer to  that  is  the  sound  of  crash- 
ing and  tottering  thrones,  which 
is  being  borne  to  our  ears  on  the 
winds  that  are  sweeping  across  the 
ocean.  When  that  declaration  rang 
out  by  the  inspiration  of  God  that 
all  men  are  created  equal,-  then 
thrones  began  to  hotter,  then  the 
cheeks  of  monarchs  blanched,  and 
their  knees  trembled  beneath  them. 

Is  there  anything  else  that  Amer- 
ica has?  Has  America  laid  hold 
of  forces  which  will  save  her  arid 
save  the  old  world  from  the  doom 
which  shall  come  upon  them  if 
this  something  new  is  not  given  to 
them?  Yes,  America  has  something 
new.  Something  new  has  been 
born  upon  this  soil  What  is  it?  It 
is  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  It  is  the  holy  priesthood 
that  has  been  restored  from  heaven, 
which  is  the  authority  to  act  in 
God's  name  to  preach  the  gospel 
and  to  officiate  in  the  ordinances 
thereof. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  what  are 
the  enemies  that  this  mighty  re- 
public has  need  to  fear?  It  does 
not  fear  men  or  nations.  Under 
its  flag  will  march  the  bravest  of 
the  brave.  Let  me  tell  you  the  en- 
emies we  must  guard  against :  The 
desecration  of  the  Lord's  day.  That 


is  one  evil  which  is  a  reproach  upon 
our  national  conduct.  The  immola- 
tion of  virtue  and  chastity  upon  the 
alter  of  lust  in  the  great  centers  of 
our  great  republic  is  another  evil. 
This  mad  pursuit  after  pleasure, 
this  forsaking  the  things  of  God  for 
cisterns  "that  can  hold  no  water," 
this  worshiping  of  mammon  instead 
of  the  true  and  the  living  God,  this 
speculative  spirit  that  seems  to  rest 
upon  the  people  of  the  nation,  the 
lust  for  gold — will  result  in  disas- 
ter so  sure  as  God  lives  if  not 
checked.  These  are  the  evils  which 
will  sap  the  virtue  and  strength 
out  of  our  national  institutions,  be- 
cause when  the  home  is  under- 
mined, when  the  influence  of  the 
home  is  weakened,  then  the  power, 
the  prestige  and  the  might  of  this 
great  republic  is  correspondingly 
weakened. 

Ah,  my  beloved  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, let  us  not  forget  that  the  bat- 
tle is  the  Lord's,  and  as  he  is  the 
God  of  battles,  let  the  American 
people  walk  in  unison  with  his  laws, 
esteeming  virtue,  championing  the 
cause  of  chastity,  denouncing  the 
awful  crime  of  race  suicide,  encour- 
aging people  who  are  married  to 
give  legitimate  expression  to  the 
God-given  powers  of  fatherhood 
and  motherhood,  by  obeying  that 
divine  law,  "multiply,  and  replenish 
the  earth."  Thank  God  that  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  upholds  the  sanctity  of 
the  home,  encourages  men  and 
women  to  bring  up  their  children 
in  the  fear  of  the  Lord.  Upon  the 
brow  of  a  true  Latter-day  Saint  is 
not  written,  "wife  deserter." 

When  Saul  was  anointed  king  of 
Israel,  the  prophet  Samuel  said  to 
him,  "And  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
will  come  upon  thee,  and  thou  shalt 
prophesy  with  them,  and  shalt  be 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS. 


135 


turned  into  another  man."  And 
the  Bible  records  that  as  Saul  went 
from  the  presence  of  Samuel,  "God 
gave  him  another  heart."  Oh,  that 
is  what  we  as  a  nation  need  to  pray 
for.  Pray  with  David,  "Create  in 
me  a  clean  heart,  O  God ;  and  re- 
new a  right  spirit  within  me." 
When  a  man  repents  of  his  sins 
and  brings  forth  fruits  meet  for  re- 
pentance, is  he  not  another  man? 
Does  not  God  give  him  another 
heart,  a  new  heart  ? 

It  is  my  good  fortune  to  labor 
with  many  young  men,  your  sons, 
from  the  valleys  of  the  mountains, 
in  the  Southern  States  mission. 
They  have  come  to  the  mission  in- 
experienced boys,  many  of  them, 
and  I  have  had  a  heart  to  heart 
talk  with  every  one  of  them.  I 
have  seen  those  young  men  go  out 
into  the  mission  field,  they  have 
preached  upon  the  streets,  they 
have  sometimes  faced  hostile  audi- 
ences, but  the  power  of  God  has 
rested  upon  them,  and  when  they 
went  about  their  duty  God  has 
turned  them  into  other  men ;  he  has 
giyen  them  another  heart. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if 
the  people  will  put  all  manner  of 
evil  beneath  their  feet ;  if  they  will 
turn  wholly  to  God :  if  they  will  set 
their  faces  as  flint  against  those 
evils  which  are  vexing  mankind, 
God  will  give  them  new  hearts,  and 
by  obeying  the  gospel,  they  will 
become  better  and  stronger.  What 
bondage  is  there  to  be  compared 
to  the  bondage  of  sin?  What  load 
can  a  man  carry  that  is  so  awful 
and  so  blighting  in  its  effects  as  a 
conscience  racked  with  the  tor- 
ments of  hell  ?  There  is  no  autoc- 
racy, there  is  no  despotism,  there 
is  no  monarchy  so  cruel,  so  hard 
upon  a  man  as  the  despotism  of  sin, 
of  a  conscience  burdened  with  guilt. 


I  plead  with  men  who  are  tor- 
mented with  the  knowledge  that 
they  have  done  wrong,  to  repent 
before  God,  to  go  to  him,  to  hate 
sin,  to  bring  forth  fruits  meet  for 
repentance,  and  when  a  man  does 
go  to  the  Father  with  a  humble 
heart  and  a  contrite  spirit,  the  peace 
of  God  that  passeth  all  understand- 
ing will  fill  his  soul,  and  then  he 
will  know  that  there  is  no  freedom 
so  sweet,  no  happiness  so  deep  and 
enduring  as  the  peace  and  the  joy 
that  spring  from  serving  the  Lord 
and  keeping  all  his  commandments. 

Oh,  mav  the  soldiers  that  go 
from  our  beloved  states  in  the  West 
go  with  the  spirit  which  the  2,000 
young  Lanianites  had.  They  said 
to  their  prophet  leader  Helaman : 
"Father,  behold  our  God  is  with  us, 
and  he  will  not  suffer  that  we  shall 
fall."  And  Helaman  said  that  these 
young  men  "had  been  taught  by 
their  mothers,  that  if  they  did  not 
doubt,  that  God  would  deliver 
them.  And-  they  rehearsed  unto  me 
the  words  of  their  mothers,  saying, 
we  do  not  doubt  our  mothers  knew 
it." 

Mothers  in  Israel,  your  sons  may 
not  be  called  upon  to  go  into  the 
battle  rank,  but  they  will  go  to  fight 
a  harder  battle,  perhaps.  They  may 
have  to  meet  the  temptations,  the 
vices,  and  the  evils  of  the  world, 
which  are  ever  threatening  the 
overthrow  of  young  people.  I  ask 
you,  mothers,  as  a  servant  of  God 
to  continue  to  teach  your  sons  that 
if  they  will  be  virtuous  and  chaste, 
and  have  faith  in  God,  that'  their 
lives  will  not  be  scarred  with  these 
awful  evils,  and  that  thev  will  not 
sacrifice  the  precious  birthright 
which  Go'l  hath  given  unto  them 
in  being  born  children  of  the  cov- 
enant. 

I   beg  of  you   mothers   and  you 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


fathers  to  teach  your  daughters 
that  they,  too,  have  to  fight  a  stren- 
uous battle.  God  bless  and  protect 
the  womanhood  of  this  nation ! 
The  young  women,  under  the  sus- 
taining prayers  and  the  counsels  of 
their  mothers,  need  the  restraining 
discipline  which  ,  characterizes  a 
well-ordered  home.  Protect  the 
young  men  and  young  women,  and 
build  them  up  in  the  faith  of  the 
true  and  the  living  God,  so  that 
when  they  go  forth  in  the  great 
battle  of  life,  they  will  have  the  as- 
surance that  they  will  not  fall  vic- 
tims to  the  evils  of  the  world.  God 
help  us  to  be  loyal  to  him,  to  give 
unto  him  all  the  praise  and  the 
glory.  And  if  we  go  forth  to  bat- 
tle, let -us  remember  that  the  great 
God  of  the  whole  earth,  Jesus 
Christ,  is  the  King  of  the  American 
people.  As  we  walk  under  the 
Star-spangled  Banner,  let  peace 
and  charity  and  mercy  and  prayer 
abide  in  our  hearts,  that  we  may 
be  worthy  to  be  soldiers  of  this  God- 
established  republic  and  soldiers  of 
the  Cross,  true  children  of  the  God 
of  Israel,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.    Amen. 

The  authorities  were  sustained 
unanimously  as  in  the  Tabernacle 
meeting. 

The  choir  sang:  "Song  of  the 
Redeemed." 

Prayer  by  Bishop  John  R.  Win- 
ter, of  Rexburg,  Idaho. 


CLOSING  SESSION. 

In  the  Tabernacle  the  conference 
was  called  to  order  at  2  p.  m.,  by 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  who 
presided. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  sang  the 
anthem  :    "Come  unto  me." 


Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Wm. 
A.  Hyde,  president  of  the  Pocatello 
stake  of  Zion. 

Horace  S.  Ensign  and  William 
Worley  sang  a  duet :  "  Come  unto 
him,  all  ye  who  weep." 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

Our  religion  not  a  thing  apart  from 
life — The  laws  of  the  gospel  provide 
for  physical  health,  temporal  suc- 
cess, educational  development,  eth- 
ical culture,  social  purity,  music, 
art,  and  all  that  therein  is  true  and 
beautiful — The  laws  of  the  Church 
teach  loyalty  and  the  true  relation 
of  Church  and  State — They  encour- 
age the  acceptable  home  life,  proper 
marriage  relations,  and  define  the 
true  relationship  of  man  to  God  and 
man  to  man — The  brotherhood  in 
the  Priesthood  of  God  the  most 
satisfactory  known  to  men — It  is 
the  true  fraternity  of  God  and 
brotherhood  ,of  man — All  worth 
having  in  life  may  be  obtained  with- 
in the  pale  of  the  gospel  which  com- 
pletes the  full  circle  of  require- 
ments of  a  hviman  life — May  we  all 
learn  to  live  to  be  worthy  of  its 
truths. 

I  cannot  tell  you  with  what  dif- 
ficulty I  have  approached  this  un- 
dertaking. When  I  realize  that  the 
body  of  the  Church  has  come  up  to 
Zion  for  counsel  and  guidance,  to 
hear  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  that 
in  a  measure  a  portion  of  that  re- 
sponsibility of  giving  the  word  of 
the  Lord  to  the  people  of  the 
Church,  rests  even  but  slightly  upon 
me,  I  am  almost  overwhelmed.  I 
have  prayed  to  our  Father  for  the 
guidance  of  his  Spirit,  and  I  appeal 
to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for 
your  sympathetic  co-operation,  in 
the  hope  that  I  may  be  able  to  say 
something  that  will  be  of  profit  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  recognize 
the  fact  that  but  a  comparatively 
small  portion  of  the  total  number 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS. 


137 


of  the  Church  members  are  here 
present,  but  I  also  recognize  the 
fact  that  the  whole  of  the  Church 
is  here  represented  and  that  the 
priesthood  of  the  Church,  which 
presides  over  it  in  its  various  de- 
partments, is  here  present  in  a  very 
large  number,  and  that  there  are 
present  a  sufficiently  large  number 
of  the  people  of  the  Church  to  touch 
the  lives  of  all  those  who  claim 
membership  therein. 

I,  with  you,  have  received  great 
joy  and  satisfaction  in  the  words 
that  have  been  spoken  to  us  in  the 
sessions  of  our  general  conference. 
It  seems  to  me  that  all  queries  that 
were  within  our  minds  as  we  came 
from  up  and  down  the  land  to  this 
central  place  of  meeting  for  advice 
and  counsel  have  been  answered, 
and  that  all  of  the  questions  which 
have  troubled  us  in  these  momen- 
tous times  have  received  such 
treatment  and  discussion  as  to  sat- 
isfy our  souls  and  direct  us  in  our 
course  of  action.  I  have  been  in- 
tensely impressed  with  the  prac- 
ticality, the  beneficient  practicality, 
of  the  teachings  of  our  religion. 

We  came  together  two  .days  ago 
with  our  hearts  and  thoughts  bent 
upon  discovery  of  a  true  course  of 
action  for  us  to  follow  as  individ- 
uals, as  a  people,  in  the  great  prob- 
lems that  present  themselves  to  us, 
and  I  feel  sure  that  each  person 
who  has  listened  to  the  counsel  of 
our  brethren,  and  has  heard  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  expounded 
by  divine  inspiration  has  received 
guidance  and  direction  for  himself 
personally,  as  well  as  for  the  great 
body  of  the  people.  President 
Smith,  in  his  opening  remarks,  sug- 
gested that  the  brethren  who  might 
follow  him  would  see  fit  to  touch 
upon  and  emphasize  some  of  the 
cardinal    principles    of   the   gospel, 


which  were  mentioned  by  him  so 
forcefully  in  his  opening  address, 
and  in  conformity  to  that  sugges- 
tion most  of  the  important  princi- 
ples of  the  gospel,  which  affect  us 
at  this  time  and  are  calculated  to 
determine  our  course  of  conduct, 
have  been  dwelt  upon  in  such  man- 
ner as  to  make  plain  to  us  our 
duties. 

Our  religion  is  not  a  thing  apart 
from  our  life.  It  is  incorporated  in 
it,  and  forms  a  part  of  the  very  tis- 
sue and  sinews  of  our  being.  It 
provides  a  rule  of  conduct  and  of 
action  for  us,  not  only  in  our  oc- 
casional worship  but  in  our  lives,  in 
our  work,  in  our  play,  in  all  that 
we  do  in  the  whole  course  of  our 
conduct.  It  is  this  intense  prac- 
ticality of  it  that  appeals  to  me  as 
its  greatest  strength,  constituting 
its  greatest  salvation  for  the  hu- 
man family.  There  has  been  in 
times  past,  to  my  thinking,  too  much 
of  Sunday  reh'gion.  There  is  com- 
paratively too  much  of  that  notion 
that  our  religious  views  are  to  be 
considered  separate  and  apart  from 
the  lives  we  live,  and  that  has  led  to 
a  devitalization  of  the  religion 
which  has  been  professed  by  Chris- 
tianity ;  for  modern  man,  if  he  is 
anything,  is  practical, — he  desires 
to  see  the  end  of  that  which  he  be- 
gins,— the  application  of  the  truth 
which  he  considers,  and  if  it  can- 
not be  demonstrated  to  him  that  re- 
ligion, as  a  profession  of  belief,  will 
work  out  in  his  every  day  life  an 
influence,  that  will  develop  for  him 
success,  happiness  and  joy,  he  can- 
not be  made  to  be  interested  in  re- 
ligion. Within  the  purview  of  the 
gospel,  there  has  been  given  to  us, 
as  I  view  it,  a  remedy  for  every  ill, 
a  precaution  for  every  evil  into 
which  we  might  fall,  and  a  safe- 
guard against  all  harm. 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


To  those  who  would  have  health 
and  enjoy  the  blessings  that  come 
from  healthful  bodies,  there  is  the 
Word  of  Wisdom  given  to  the 
Church  in  its  earliest  days  as  a 
guiding  principle  in  the  conduct  of 
their  lives.  How  much  the  world 
needs  that  principle  today!  How 
much  benefit  and  good  would  come 
to  humanity  at  large  if  they  could 
but  understand  and  adopt  in  their 
lives  those  simple  and  comprehen- 
sive principles  and  truths  taught  in 
that  which  we  denominate  the 
Word  of  Wisdom. 

There  are  those  who  seek  after 
temporal  success,  who  seek  to  bring 
to  themselves  wealth,  renown,  and 
power.  The  gospel  provides  a  plan 
whereby  that  success,  in  righteous- 
ness, may  be  attained.  The  law  of 
tithing,  as  laid  down  in  the  Church 
and  as  practiced  by  the  Church,  to 
my  thinking  is  the  surest  guide  to 
follow  in  the  accomplishment  of 
success  in  our  temporal  affairs,  and 
I  bear  you  my  testimony,  as  you 
have  heard  it  from  thousands  of 
men  and  women  in  the  Church,  that 
those  who  will  obey  the  Lord's  law 
of  tithing  and  contribute  of  their 
substance  that  which  is  demanded 
of  them,  for  the  Lord  and  his  work, 
will  prosper  in  their  temporal  af- 
fairs. The  gospel  teaches  frugality, 
thrift,  industry, — all  of  those  com- 
ponant  qualities  that  go  to  make  the 
successful,  happy,  prosperous  citi- 
zen of  our  land. 

There  are  those  who  seek  after 
culture  of  the  mind,  who  see  in  the 
development  of  the  intellectual  pro- 
cesses the  great  height  of  ambition 
for  which  they  strive.  There  is  no 
religion,  there  is  no  philosophy,  so 
far  as  I  know,  which  accentuates 
human  intelligence  as  does  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Chrst.  "The  glory 
of  God  is  intelligence,"  and  to  one 


who  holds  that  view  the  culture  of 
his  mind  assumes  a  broader,  a  big- 
ger, a  finer  view  point  than  can  pos- 
sibly be  had  by  anyone  who  does 
not  so  regard  it. 

The  Church  has  promulgated  and 
stands  for  the  most  complete  sys- 
tem of  ethics  and  morals  that  the 
world  has  ever  known.  It  was 
highly  gratifying  to  learn  not  long 
ago  that  a  company  engaged  in 
disseminating  news,  in  looking  for 
one  to  write  for  the  newspapers 
which  they  published,  an  article  de- 
voted to  "social  purity,"  had  se- 
lected our  own  beloved .  president, 
believing  that  he,  representing  the 
people  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
could  write  a  better  article  upon  the 
subject  of  social  purity  than  could 
be  obtained  from  any  other  source. 
We  believe  and  know  that  to  be 
true,  because  we  profess  what  we 
practice  in  that  regard. 

To  those  who  look  for  the  beauti- 
ful in  art  and  in  music,  and  who 
would  dedicate  and  consecrate 
their  lives,  as  many  have  done,  to 
development  along  these  lines,  our 
religion  offers  encouragement  of 
the  highest  type  and  order.  I  think 
that  it  can  be  safely  said  that  there 
are  no  communities  to  be  found 
anywhere  in  which  the  love  of  mu- 
sic is  developed  to  a  higher  degree 
than  among  the  communities  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  doubt  if  there 
can  be  found  any  people  upon  the 
face  of  the  globe  who  love  to  sing, 
to  praise  God  in  song,  whose  songs 
come  from  the  heart  more  than  do 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  Our  love  of 
art  in  its  true  sense  is  exemplified 
in  our  temples  and  majestic  edifices 
that  have  been  erected  for  the  wor- 
ship of  God,  and  to  all  who  love 
that  which  is  beautiful  and  true' in 
the  arts,  and  in  the  sciences  as  well, 
our  Church,  our  religion,  offers  en- 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS. 


139 


couragement  and  provides  a  broad 
plan  of  understanding  whereby  all 
may  be  comprehended  in  its  true 
light. 

We   have  been   favored  at  this 
conference  with  more  than  one  ex- 
position of  the  attitude  of  our  peo- 
ple and  our  Church  toward  the  gov- 
ernment in  which  we  live.     I   feel 
safe  in  making  the  statement  that 
there  can  be  found  in  no  place  hi 
this  great  republic  men  and  women 
more  devotedly  consecrated  to  the 
principles   of   liberty   and    freedom 
for  which  our  nation   stands  than 
our  own  Latter-day  Saints.     Why 
should  it  not  be?    Do  we,  perhaps, 
not  owe  more  to  the  protecting  care 
oi  the  government  than  any  other 
people?    Have  we  not  more  reason 
to  be  greatful  for  liberty  and  for 
freedom    than  the    people  of    any 
other  section  of  our  great  republic  ? 
Brother    Ivins    said,    in    eloquent 
language,  that  th's  government  has 
been  the  guardian  of  the  Church. 
Certain  it  is  that  it  has  afforded  us 
opportunity   to    develop    the    great 
truths  which  have  been  revealed  in 
the  gospel,  and  certain  it  is  that  we 
love  it  and  that  we  are  willing  as 
a  people  to  protect  it  in  every  way 
that  is  necessary.    I  was  also  much 
impressed  by  a    further    statement 
made  upon  this  subject  in  that  our 
religion  teaches  us  the  true  relation 
of  Church  and  State,  and  affords  us 
a   solution   to   that   much   agitated 
problem    that    has    concerned    our 
people  at  many  times.     It  teaches 
us  that  we  live  under  a  constitution 
which  was  wrought  out  at  the  hands 
of  divinely  inspired  men  and  that 
that  constitution  is  our  safeguard 
against  encroachments  upon  princi- 
ples of  justice,  of  truth,  and  of  lib- 
erty, and  so  I  say  there  can  be  no 
more  loyal,  no  more  patriotic  men 
and  women,   from  the  Atlantic  to 


the  Pacific,  than  can  be  found  in 
these  few  small  states  that  harbor 
the  Latter-day  Saints. 

If  you  would  build  a  home  filled 
with  love  and  charity  and  divine  af- 
fection, you  can  go  to  no  place  that 
will  give  you  a  more  adequate  con- 
ception of  the  proper  way  to  rear 
and  maintain  a  family,  of  the  prop- 
er way  to  lay  the  foundations  of  a 
home  than  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints.    The  gospel  has  revealed  to 
us  higher  and  loftier  principles  in 
connection  with  the  marital  status, 
in  relation  to  parents'  relationship 
to  their  children,  than  has  ever  come 
to    man  in    all  the    history  of  the 
world  from  the  time  of  the  Savior 
down  to  the  time  when  the  restored 
gospel  came  to  earth,  never  to  be 
taken  away  again.    And  how  fun- 
damentally important  it  is  that,  we 
should  have  revealed  to  us,  made 
known  a  plan  to  us,  by  which  to 
make  good  homes,  for  I  tell  you  a 
great  nation  can  no  more  exist  with- 
out   good  homes    than  it  can  exist 
without  the  loyalty  and  patriotism 
of  a  devoted  citizenship.    It  is  im- 
possible   that    we    should    have    a 
great   country,   fulfiling    the    lofty 
purposes  of  its  destiny,  unless  we 
have  good   homes   throughout   the 
land.     It  is  my  humble  belief  that 
there  are  to  be  found  among  our 
people  more  good,  true,  honorable, 
simple   homes   than  can  be    found 
among    any    other     people  in  this 
great,  wide  world.  I  believe  there 
are  more  fathers  who  are  fathers  in 
very  deed,  who  honor  their  wives, 
the   mothers   of   their   children,    as 
they  should  honor  them,  there  are 
more  good  women  consecrating  and 
devoting  their  lives  to  their  children 
and     their     husbands     and     their 
homes.     I    think    there    are    more 
true   children   loving  their   fathers 
and  loving  their  mothers  and  their 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


homes  with  a  great  unselfish  love,  to 
be  found  among-  our  own  people 
than  can  be  found  upon  the  face  of 
this  globe;  and  I  thank  God  that 
this  is  true.  God  bless  our  homes. 
Our  homes  are  the  foundation  of 
the  nation.  They  are  the  corner 
stone  of  society  itself.  If  the  good 
old-fashioned  American  home,  as 
we  have  it,  should  vanish  from  the 
earth  nothing  could  take  its  place 
and  there  would  come  faster  than 
there  is  now  coming  in  many  sec- 
tions of  the  country,  decay  by  rea- 
son of  its  absence. 

But  I  think  the  one  great  thing 
in  the  gospel  for  which  I  am  most 
grateful  is  that  it  broadens  and  en- 
larges the  scope  of  our  vision,  that 
it  enables  us  to  see  more  clearly  the 
true  relationship,  not  only  of  man 
to  God,  but  of  man  to  man.  There 
are  so  many  people  in  the  world  so 
engrossed  with  their  own  little  un- 
dertakings, so  devoted  to  the  ac- 
complishment of  the  purposes  that 
they  set  about  to  do,  that  they  fail 
to  grasp  the  great  significance  of  all 
life,  and  they  fail  to  understand  and 
comprehend  their  true  place  in 
God's  world.  I  have  seen  men  en- 
gaged in  the  various  professions 
who  lived  and  breathed  and  slept 
their  professions  to  such  an  extent 
that  nothing  without  the  pale  of 
their  work  received  any  attention  or 
any  consideration  from  them.  I 
have  seen,  as  have  you,  men  so  en- 
tirely engrossed  and  absorbed  in  the 
pursuit  after  wealth  or  in  the  pur- 
suit after  renown  and  praise  and 
glory  that  come  from  men  that 
<Jiey  could  not  give,  or  would  not 
give,  any  consideration,  any  atten- 
tion to  things  other  than  those 
which  immediately  concerned  them- 
selves and  the  vocation  or  pursuit 
in  which  they  were  engaged.  It  is 
a  great  blessing  to  be  able  to  stand 


up  higher  than  the  mere  foot  stool 
upon  which  these  men  stand,  and 
to  see  life  in  its  true  aspect.  It  is  a 
great  thing  to  be  able  to  see  the  rel- 
ative value,  or  the  relative  values, 
of  the  things  which  enter  into  and 
constitute  our  lives,  our  lives'  work, 
and  I  regard  it  as  a  most  unfortu- 
nate thing  that  many  of  the  men 
most  gifted  with  talent,  men  whose 
bfains  have  comprehended  great  de- 
signs and  schemes,  for  the  progress 
of  civilization,  and  the  race,  should 
be  so  narrow  and  contracted  in  their 
views  that  they  are  not  able  to  see 
the  relationship  of  themselves  and 
their  work  to  the  work  of  God,  and 
to  the  ultimate  destiny  which  he  has 
in  store  for  his  people.  That  to  me 
is  one  of  the  greatest  blessings 
which  comes  to  Latter-day  Saints, 
for  no  matter  how  engrossed  we 
may  be  in  our  life's  work,  no  mat- 
ter how  intensely  interesting  it  may 
become  to  us,  we  still  see  above  the 
petty  things  of  life,  with  which 
we  are  so  engaged  from  time  to 
time,  and  we  see  the  eternal  pur- 
poses of  God  being  worked  out  in 
all  our  workaday  world,  and  it  gives 
us  hope  and  encouragement  and 
faith  and  strength  to  go  forth  and 
to  .devote  and  consecrate  our  lives, 
by  doing  whatever  little  duty  we 
may,  to  God  and  the  accomplish- 
ment of  his  purposes. 

There  are  those  among  us  who 
maintain  that  the  highest  gratifica- 
tion that  can  come  to  them  comes 
from  their  association  with  men  and 
women  in  fraternities,  in  clubs,  in 
social  organization^  of  one  kind 
and  another.  I  have  heard  men  of 
my  own  profession  say  that  the 
most  intense  joy  that  they  ever  had 
in  their  lives  came  from  their  as- 
sociation with  the  brethren  of  their 
own  fraternity.  I  have  heard  men 
who  have  been  engaged  in  college 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS. 


141 


work,  in  universities  and  colleges  of 
the  land,  say  that  no  higher  pleas- 
ure has  ever  come  to  them  than  the 
close  associations  and  comradeship 
which  they  formed  and  maintained 
at  their  schools.  Why  you,  my 
brethren  of  the  priesthood,  know 
that  their  associations  and  their 
comradeship  dwarf  into  insignifi- 
cance compared  to  brotherhood  in 
the  priesthood  of  God.  You  know 
that  the  warm  clasp  of  the  hand 
given  by  one  who  holds  the  priest- 
hood to  another,  pledging,  as  it 
does,  fidelity,  loyalty,  trust,  confi- 
dence, is  worth  more,  a  thousand 
times,  than  all  that  so-called  social 
pleasure  and  fraternity  that  may  be 
outside  the  pale  of  the  gospel,  for 
with  those  true  feelings  of  affection 
there  is  interwoven  the  Spirit  of 
God  which  permeates  the  heart  and 
opens  up  our  mutual  understand- 
ings and  brings  a  closer  confidence 
and  a  greater  love  than  can  come 
from  any  other  source  in  this  world. 
And  so,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if 
there  be  any  among  you  or  among 
your  friends  who  seek  for  true  fra- 
ternalism,  let  them  come  into  the 
quorums  of  the  priesthood  and  the 
organizations  of  the  Church,  there 
to  receive  the  true  fraternity  of  God 
and  the  brotherhood  of  man. 

Every  one  seeks  after  happiness. 
It  is  said  to  be  the  goal  of  our  life 
and  our  life's  work.  You  who  have 
labored  in  the  service  of  the  Lord 
know  that  no  happiness  can  com- 
pare with  the  joy  of  service  in 
God's  work.  You  know  that  no 
real  joy  is  comparable  to  that  which 
comes  from  having  done  a  helpful 
thing  to  a  neighbor,  and  demon- 
strated your  love  for  him,  and  so 
having  kept  the  second  great  com- 
mandment. 

So  that,  as  I  view  it  in  my  hum- 
ble way,  all  of  those  things  that  are 


worth  having  in  this  life  may  be 
had  within  the  pale  of  the  gospel. 
So  far  as  I  know  there  is  nothing 
worth  striving  for,  there  is  nothing 
of  truth,  there  is  nothing  of  true 
beauty,  of  refinement,  of  culture, 
that  may  not  be  had  within  our  own 
Church,  within  the  principles  and 
ordinances  of  the  gospel  itself.  It 
completes  the  full  circle  of  require- 
ments of  a  human  life.  It  provides 
a  never  failing  rule  of  action  for 
life  and  life's  conduct.  Someone 
has  said,  "what  is  there  about 
'Mormonism,'  what  one  thing  is 
there  about  it,  which  more  than 
anything  else  demonstrates  its 
truth?"  And  someone  answered, 
"everything."  And  so  my  brethren 
and  my  sitsers,  to  my  thinking  those 
who  have  spoken  to  you  in  this 
great  conference  have  in  outline 
and  in  many  instances  in  detail  of- 
fered to  you  a  plan  of  conduct  for 
your  lives  that  will  insure  your  suc- 
cess while  on  earth  and  what  is 
greater  still,  will  bring  to  you  sal- 
vation in  the  eternal  kingdom  of 
our  Father  in  the  life  to  come. 

I  want  to  bear  my  humble  testi- 
mony to  you  that  I  know  we  are 
engaged  in  the  work  of  God  and 
the  work  of  truth.  I  would  that 
the  same  testimony  should  come  to 
all  my  brothers  among  mankind 
and  to  all  my  sisters.  I  wish  I  knew 
some  way,  as  President  Smith  said, 
to  so  build  a  beautiful  mansion  that 
all  the  world  would  be  attracted  to 
it  and  would  come  to  it  and  dwell 
within  it  and  partake  of  the  holy 
Spirit  which  is  given  so  abundantly 
for  the  help  of  mankind,  and  in 
such  merciful  fashion  to  those  even 
who  do  not  obey  the  teachings  of 
the  Lord.  I  think  our  Father  is 
abundantly  merciful  in  the  way  that 
he  has  dealt  with  us,  and  in  the 
way    that  he  has    dealt  with    the 


142 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


world.  I  have  no  doubt  his  judg- 
ment will  be  brought  to  pass  upon 
the  wicked,  but  I  have  no  doubt 
that  he  is  filled  with  mercy  and 
compassion  for  all  of  those  who 
have  within  them  a  spark  of  repent- 
ance and  a  spark  of  love  for  him 
and  his  work.  May  the  Lord  help 
each  one  of  us  to  so  live  that  we 
ourselves  may  be  exemplars  of  the 
truth,  that  our  lives  may  be  shining 
monuments  of  the  great  truths  which 
have  been  given  to  us  and  which  we 
profess,  and  that  we  may  show  our- 
selves worthy  of  the  great  blessings 
of  the  gospel  which  have  been  given 
to  us  in  such  multiplicity  for  our 
well  being,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.     Amen. 

Prof.  J.  J.  McClellan  gave  the 
organ  solos:  "O  My  Father,"  and 
"Nearer,  my  God  to  thee." 


BISHOP  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY. 

We  live  in  perilous  tim.es  when  it 
behooves  all  to  contribute  to  the  in- 
creased production  of  foodstuffs — 
Prizes  offered  by  the  'Church  for  the 
best  yield  of  potatoes  and  wheat,  to 
encourage  increased  production — 
What  we  can  do  for  our  country  in 
its  present  crisis — The  question  at 
issue,  the  old  one;  the  life  of  lib- 
erty, on  the  one  hand,  and  its  death 
on  the  other — The  law  of  liberty 
one  of  love  and  common  consent — 
Our  Church  constitution  on  the 
subject — Length  of  the  war — Our 
duty  to  practice  strict  economy. 

These  gatherings  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  among  the  most 
wonderful,  T  think,  of  any  gather- 
ings of  people  in  the  world.  I  do 
not  know  where  you  will  find  an- 
other such  gathering  as  this,  and 
one  which  will  produce  such  benefi- 
cient  results  as  these  gatherings  of 
Latter-day  Saints  do. 


We  have  been  told,  during  this 
conference,  of  many  of  our  duties 
and  obligations  to  the  Church  and 
also  to  our  Country.  The  Latter- 
day  Saint  who  performs  his  full 
•duty  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  will  always 
perform  his  full  duty  to  his  Coun- 
try. A  man  cannot  be  a  good  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  and  not  be  a  good 
citizen. 

We  are  living  in  perilous  times. 
Our  country  is  in  a  state  of  war. 
It  is  true  we  are  in  the  chambers 
of  the  mountains  and  comparatively 
secure,  but  we  each,  nevertheless, 
have  a  duty  to  perform.  President 
Smith  stated  in  his  opening  remarks 
that  in  view  of  the  condition  that 
our  country  is  in  at  the  present  time, 
it  is  the  duty  of  every  person,  every 
farmer,  every  brother  or  sister,  who 
can  do  so  in  any  way,  to  help  to 
contribute  to  the  increased  produc- 
tion of  foodstuffs,  and  all  should 
do  everything  they  can  in  that  di- 
rection. Our  country  may  need  all 
the  aid  we  can  give  in  this  way  be- 
fore we  get  through,  and  everyone 
can  do  something  toward  the  pro- 
motion and  increase  of  the  food 
supplies  of  the. state  and  nation. 

It  was  decided  at  the  priesthood 
meeting  last  night  that  certain 
prizes  should  be  offered  to  encour- 
age the  ward  Priesthood  quorums, 
high  priests,  seventies,  elders, 
priests,  teachers  or  deacons, — in 
each  ward,  and  the  Relief  Societies, 
Young  Men's  and  Young  Ladies' 
Mutual  Improvement  organizations, 
Sunday  School  and  Primary  and 
Religion  Class  organizations  in 
every  ward  in  the  Church,  to  start 
work  at  once.  That,  as  soon  as  you 
go  to  your  homes  you  should  call 
your  societies  or  quorums  together 
and  see  if  it  is  not  possible  for  each 
of  these  organizations  and  quorums 


BISHOP  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY. 


143 


to  grow  at  least  an  acre  of  potatoes. 
The  Church,  through  its  Trustee- 
in-Trust,  offers  certain  prizes  for 
the  best  yield  from  an  acre  of  po- 
tatoes and  the  best  yield  from  five 
acres  of  spring  wheat.  This  will 
give  our  boys  and  girls  an  oppor- 
tunity to  do  a  little  practical  farm- 
ing. Good  choice  land  should  be  se- 
cured, even  if  it  has  to  be  rented  by 
the  association,  and  the  education  of 
a  practical  nature  that  the  boys 
and  girls  will  acquire  will  alone  be 
worth  the  effort.  Here  is  the  res- 
olution or  memorandum  that  was 
voted  upon  at  the  priesthood  meet- 
ing last  night : 

"With  a  view  of  stimulating  the  pro- 
duction of  foodstuffs  which  may  be 
badly  needed  in  these  war  times,  the 
Trustee-in-Trust  offers  to  any  ward 
quorum  of  the  priesthood,  or  any 
ward  Relief  Society,  Young  Men's  or 
Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement 
Association,  Sunday  School,  Primary 
Association  ,or  Religion  Class,  for  the 
best  yield  from  one  acre  of  potatoes, 
$1,000;  for  the  second  best,  $500;  third 
best,  $250;  and  for  the  best  yield  from 
five  acres  of  spring  wheat,  $1,000;  for 
second  best,  $500;  third  best,  $250. 
Those  organizations  which  desire  to 
contest  for  the  above  named  prizes 
will  notify  the  Presiding  Bishopric 
on  or  before  May  15,  1917." 

We  will  arrange  with  bishops  of 
wards  and  presidents  of  stakes  to 
collect  the  necessary  information 
and  send  to  us  concerning  the  plant- 
ing and  growth  and  yield  of  these 
products.  And  the  necessary  in- 
formation will  be  duly  publishel  in 
our  Church  papers. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
here  is  something  that  we  can  do 
for  our  country.  As  the  English 
say,  "I  can  ,do  my  bit."  You  can  do 
your  part,  and  everyone  ought  to 
feel  in  his  or  her  heart  that  there  is 
something  we  can  do  and  should  do, 


for  the  time  is  momentous.  The  is- 
sues, as  Brother  Ivins  stated  to  us 
yesterday,  are  the  greatest  that  were 
ever  thrust  upon  any  people  in  this 
world.  It  is  liberty  on  one  hand, 
or  the  death  of  liberty  on  the  other. 
To  my  mind  this  contention  has 
seemed  to  be  the  contention  of 
the  ages.  The  fight  that  has 
been  going  on  for  the  last  three 
hundred  years  or  more  which  has 
won  for  us  our  precious  heritage  of 
liberty,  now  lies  in  the  balance.  I 
do  not  need  to  try  to  state  the  great 
issue  to  you  because  the  President 
of  the  United  States  has  stated  it  so 
fully,  so  forcefully,  so  pla'nly,  that 
a  wayfaring  man,  though  a  fool, 
need  not  err  therein.  It  is  made 
clear  even  for  such  as  he.  But  it 
has  seemed  to  me  that  all  through 
this  great  world  conflict,  the  same 
influence  and  spirit  has  been  fight- 
ing for  supremacy  and  rule  as  it 
has  fought  down  through  all  the 
ages.  We  read  of  the  contention 
that  existed  in  heaven  before  this 
world  was  organized,  and  in  that 
great  conflict,  we  are  told  that  one- 
third  of  the  hosts  of  heaven  were 
overpowered  and  thrown  out.  But 
the  spirit  of  that  contention  did  not 
cease  to  exist.  It  has  existed  and 
has  come  down  to  us  through  the 
ages ;  one  side  contending  for  in- 
dividual liberty  and  the  rights  of 
man,  and  the  other  side  contending 
for  rule  by  force  and  by  compulsion. 
That  was  essentially  the  issue  in 
that  great  conflict  before  the  world 
was.  Christ  stood  for  government 
by  persuasion,  by  long  suffering,  by 
kindness  and  gentleness  and  love 
unfeigned.  The  other  power  was 
for  government  and  salvation  for 
all,  to  be  secured  by  the  spirit  of 
force  and  compulsion,  wherein  all 
would  be  saved  without  agency,  or 
what  we  call  common  consent.  That 


144 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


spirit  of  the  evil  one  has  never  been 
suppressed  up  to  the  present  hour. 
In  this  present  world  conflict  that 
same  issue  is  at  stake.  One  side  is 
contending  for  liberty,  freedom, 
government  by  the  consent  of  those 
who  are  governed,  what  we  in  this 
Church  call  common  consent;  the 
other  side  is  the  old  contention  for 
the  divine  right  of  kings  who  claim 
they  can  give  to  the  people  better 
and  more  efficient  government 
through  compelling  them  to  do 
what  the  rulers  believe  to  be  right. 
And  in  that  way  Lucifer  proposed 
in  the  beginning  to  save  all  peo- 
ple by  force  and  compulsion. 

The  spirit  that  was  making  for 
liberty  was  in  Henry  the  Eighth 
when  he  broke  with  the  Pope  of 
Rome  and  fought  against  the  power 
that  was  being  exercised  upon  the 
bodies  and  souls  of  the  children  of 
men,  which  was  in  the  last  degree 
tyrannical,  and  was  destructive  of 
human  liberty  and  human  rights. 
It  was  the  old  fight  reappearing  in 
a  new  form,  but  with  the  same  spir- 
itual influences  opposed  to  each 
other  as  in  the  beginning.  Those 
same  spiritual  forces  were  at  work 
in  the  contest  with  Oliver  Crom- 
well, on  one  side,  and  the  Stuart 
kings  on  the  other.  Cromwell  was 
fighting  under  the  spirit  of  Christ 
for  greater  liberty.  The  Stuarts 
were  fighting  under  the  old  Lucifer 
spirit  for  the  suppression  of  liberty 
and  for  government  by  force. 
Those  same  influences  were  in  the 
fight  with  George  Washington  and 
the  continental  army  on  the  side  for 
greater  liberty,  and  Great  Britain 
on  the  other  side  against  the  exten- 
sion of  liberty  and  the  plain  rights 
of  humanity.  Those  same  influ- 
ences were  at  work  in  the  fight  of 
Abraham  Lincoln  and  the  northern 
states,   contending   for   liberty   and 


the  rights  of  man,  freedom  from 
slavery,  with  the  South  represented 
by  the  coercive  spirit  which  Lucifer 
always  prompts  and  which  is 
against  liberty  and  in  favor  of  co- 
ercion and  compulsion.  Therefore, 
the  issues  in  this  great  world  war 
are  most  momentous.  All  of  our 
liberties  that  have  been  won  by  so 
many  years  of  turmoil  and  strife, 
all  the  aggregation  of  the  ages  of 
that  which  makes  for  the  rights  of 
the  individual  and  blessings  to  hu- 
manity, are  at  stake  and  lie  in  the 
balance  today.  Every  Latter-day 
Saint  knows  which  side  of  the  great 
conflict  he  should  be  on.  For  there 
is  nothing  in  this  Church,  nothing 
in  its  organization,  but  what  makes 
for  liberty  and  righteousness  and 
must  be  done  by  common  consent. 
These  are  the  words  of  our  Church 
constitution :  "No  power  or  influ- 
ence can,  or  ought  to  be  maintained 
by  virtue  of  the  Priesthood  only 
by  persuasion,  by  long  suffering,  by 
gentleness,  and  meekness,  and  by 
love  unfeigned."  And  when  any 
man  tries  to  exert  authority  or  ex- 
ercise compulsion,  or  force,  or  se- 
cure dominion  over  the  souls  of  the 
children  of  men,  in  any  degree  of 
unrighteousness,  then  the  spirit  of 
the  Lord  is  grieved  and  it  will  soon 
be  withdrawn  from  such  a  man. 
That  is  the  spirit  of  liberty  which 
this  Church  is  governed  by,  where- 
in is  the  agency  of  man,  that  he  is 
left  a  free  agent  unto  himself  to 
choose  the  good  and  reject  the  evil. 
Now  then,  my  brothers  and  sis- 
ters, we  can  do  our  part.  We  can 
at  least  do  something  in  this  great 
conflict  on  the  right  side.  Let  us 
take  the  counsel  of  our  President, 
and  at  least  try  to  produce  food 
more  in  abundance  than  we  have 
ever  done  before.  That  is  the  word 
of  the  Lord  to  you  and  to  me.  And, 


BISHOP  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY. 


145 


to  stimulate  that  effort,  there  has 
been  offered  by  the  Trustee-in- 
Trust  the  prizes  that  I  have  men- 
tioned. I  am  sure  that  our  sisters 
can  economize  and  help  in  these 
matters.  They  can  knit  stockings 
and  underclothing.  I  am  sure  that 
all  of  us  brethren  can  be  less  ex- 
travagant. It  is  a  time  for  econ- 
omy. The  most  rigid  economy  may 
be  forced  upon  us  by  the  govern- 
ment itself,  even  in  the  food  we  eat, 
and  in  the  clothes  we  wear.  It 
may  yet  come  to  that.  I  hope  not, 
but  it  has  come  to  that  in  the  older 
countries :  in  England,  in  Germany, 
and  in  other  countries,  it  is  already 
in  force  among  the  people.  In  the 
meantime,  we  can  economize  more 
than  we  have  done.  We  can  do 
without  some  of  the  things  jwe 
think  we  ought  to  have,  until  next 
fall,  in  any  event,  and  let  us  see 
then  how  the  wind  blows ;  see  what 
turn  things  shall  have  taken  by 
then.  We  will  know  a  little  more 
about  it,  six  months  from  now, 
and  yet  it  is  quite  within  the  range 
of  possibilities  that  this  war  that  we 
are  in  may  last  more  than  a  year ; 
although,  of  course,  we  all  hope  it 
will  be  over  in  a  few  months. 

I  remember  when  in  New  York, 
two  years  ago  last  September,  after 
the  war  had  started,  I  was  enquir- 
ing of  different  prominent  leading 
men  whom  I  met,  as  to  the  prob- 
able length  of  time  that  the  war 
would  last.  I  remember  one  of  the 
ablest  of  these  men,  who  stands  at 
the  head  of  one  of  the  very  largest 
business  affairs  in  the  United 
States,  said  to  me  that  he  did  not 
see  how  it  was  possible  for  the 
war  to  last  longer  than  about  three 
months.  Well,  it  has  lasted  now 
two  years  and  seven  months,  and 
may  last  another  year  or  longer. 
One  thing  we  do  know  and  can  rest 


assured  of,  that  the  purposes  of 
God  will  not  fail.  *In  the  very  be- 
ginning, his  purpose  was  to  give 
liberty  to  all  his  children.  That 
purpose  will  not  fail. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
let  me  counsel  you  to  use  economy 
in  all  ways.  Save  everything  that 
will  sustain  life.  Save  your  bread- 
stuffs,  wheat,  potatoes,  and  all  food 
products.  Save  the  potato  peelings 
for  the  chickens  and  the  pigs.  Let 
us  economize  and  save  wherever  we 
can.  Let  us  try  to  make  ourselves 
feel  poor  for  six  months,  and  we 
will  all  be  benefited  through  it  and 
by  it.    God  bless  you.    Amen. 

A  solo  was  sung  by  James  Mont- 
car,  entitled,  "My  Redeemer." 


ELDER  HYRUM  W.  VALENTINE 

('Late   President   of   the    Swiss-German 
Mission.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  ap- 
preciate very  greatly  the  privilege 
that  has  been  accorded  me  to  make 
some  little  report  concerning  the 
work  and  the  conditions  in  the 
Swiss-German  mission.  I  would 
not  forget  to  thank  you,  my  breth- 
ern  and  sisters,  and  I  rejoice  that 
I  have  this  splendid  opportunity  of 
thanking  you  for  the  sympathy,  for 
the  love,  for  the  interest  that  was 
felt  for  the  Saints  in  that  mission, 
in  1914,  and  more  particularly  in 
April,  1915,  when  we  received  from 
your  bounteous  hands  the  sum  of 
ten  thousand  francs  to  be  distrib- 
uted among  the  poor  and  oppressed 
of  that  land  who  were  engaged  in 
that  mighty  conflict.  That  sum  was 
afterwards  repeated,  once  again  in 
full,  and  once  again  by  half ;  and 
that  was  more  than  anything  per- 
haps that  might  have  been  done  by 


146 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  Saints  at  home  for  those  Saints 
abroad  in  that  land  who  had  been  de- 
prived of  their  shepherds,  and  it  did 
our  hearts  good.  We  felt  that  you 
were  with  us,  that  you  were  sustain- 
ing and  supporting  us.  I  doubt  not 
that  a  repetition  of  that  very  kind 
act  would  be  thankfully  received  by 
our  brethren  and  sisters  who  are  lo- 
cated in  that  war  stricken  country 
today.  I  speak  now  of  Europe  in 
general,  and  not  any  part  of  our 
mission. 

One  of  the  last  priesthood  meet- 
ings that  we  were  permitted  to  hold 
with  the  elders  of  our  mission  was 
held  on  August  29,  1914.  And  I 
think  upon  that  occasion  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  directed  us  most  mar- 
velously  and  we  were  filled  with  the 
spirit  of  testimony,  concerning  the 
subject  of  obedience.  I  don't  be- 
lieve that  the  spirit  of  obedience 
ever  rested  so  mightily  upon  our 
elders  or  upon  our  priesthood  meet- 
ing as  it  did  upon  that  occasion. 

We  returned  to  our  headquarters 
at  Basel,  after  the  priesthood  meet- 
ing was  over,  and  Sunday  morning, 
August  30,  1914,  before  we  were 
out  of  bed,  we  received  a  tele- 
gram from  President  Hyrum  M. 
Smith,  then  presiding  over  the 
European  mission,  to  release  every 
elder  who  was  in  the  Swiss-German 
mission  and  take  steps  at  once  to 
have  them  reach  Liverpool  by  Sept. 
16  and  30.  The  tears  rolled  down 
my  cheeks,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
, ters,  and  I  said  to  my  wife:  "I 
don't  see  how  we  can  do  it,  how  are 
we  going  to  get  along  ?"  I  thought 
a  moment  and  I  said :  "Oh,  yester- 
day when  we  enjoyed  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  in  such  abundance,  and  the 
spirit  of  obedience  was  so  impressed 
upon  our  souls,  little  did  we  think 
that  before  the  sun  should  rise  we 
would  be  called    upon  to    exercise 


that  obedience;"  and  I  said:  "We 
will  do  it." 

Well,  I  think  almost  every  trial 
that  comes  to  us  in  life,  almost 
every  commandment  that  comes  to 
us,  the  sense  of  doubt  that  beats 
within  our  own  bosom  will  vanish 
like  this  difficulty  vanished  before 
our  eyes,  the  very  moment  that  we 
make  up  our  minds  we  will  do  it.  I 
.  went  to  the  bank  on  Monday  morn- 
ing, I  told  the  cashier  of  the  bank 
what  had  happened.  It  was  neces- 
sary for  us  to  have  about  twenty- 
five  thousand  marks.  We  had  no 
available  money.  We  had  some  re- 
sources but  they  were  tied  up,  and  I 
said:  "Will  you  be  willing  to  pry 
that  money  loose  and  give  it  to  us 
that  we  may  comply  with  this  re- 
quest?" He  sent  me  up  to  the  di- 
rectors. I  had  a  most  beautiful  op- 
portunity to  bear  my  testimony  and 
to  talk  to  those  directors  and  tell 
them  what  had  occurred,  and  they 
said:  "Why  certainly,  certainly. 
It  is  unusual,  but  we  will  be  glad  to 
do  it."  They  gave  me  the  money 
and  we  started  on  our  journey.  I 
never  made  a  more  successful  jour- 
ney through  the  mission  in  my  life. 
Within  the  time  of  twelve  days  we 
visited  every  conference  and  or- 
ganized almost  every  branch 
throughout  the  mission,  returned  to 
our  home  in  Basel  in  safety,  and 
provided  every  elder  with  sufficient 
money  to  pay  his  bills  and  carry  him 
to  Liverpool.  More  than  this,  we 
returned  to  our  homes  feeling  that 
the  Lord  had  spoken,  and  that  the 
word  of  the  Lord  was  being  carried 
out  in  that  work. 

On  September  27,  the  first  Sun- 
day after  all  our  elders  had  left  that 
mission,  we  went  to  the  branch  of 
St.  Gallen,  in  Switzerland,  in  order 
to  complete  the  organization  that 
had  been  effected  there.  Our  branch 


ELDER  H.  W.  VALENTINE. 


147- 


in  Basel  was  placed  in  the  hands  of 
Brother  Spoerri.  Many  of  you 
may  know  him.  He  was  not  the 
most  qualified  man,  according  to  the 
eyes  of  men,  for  that  responsible 
position,  but  we  felt  certain, 
through  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord, 
that  he  was  the  man  for  the  place. 
Upon  our  return  on  Tuesday,  from 
St.  Gallen,  our  good  Sister  Closios, 
who  is  known  to  some  of  you — and 
a  more  faithful  Latter-day  Saint  it 
would  be  hard  to  find — met  us  at  the 
door,  and  I  said :  "How  did  you 
get  along  Sunday?"  She  threw  up 
both  her  hands  and  said  :  "Why  the 
Lord  blessed  and  magnified  that 
man,  Brother  Spoerri,  in  our  eyes, 
and  we  had  such  a  rich  outpouring 
of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  that  we 
all  knew  of  a  surety  that  the  word 
of  the  Lord  had  been  given  to  us, 
and  that  we  were  not  going  back- 
wards but  forwards."  This  is  my 
testimony  to  you,  not  only  in  the 
branch  of  Basel  but  throughout  the 
entire  mission. 

We  have  about  sixty  branches  in 
the  Swiss-German  mission.  We 
have  about  seven  thousand  souls 
belonging  to  that  mission,  and  not 
one  branch  amoiig  those  sixty 
branches  has  been  closed  by  rea- 
son of  the  elders  having  been  taken 
out  of  that  mission.  The  work  has 
gone  on  most  beautifully.  In  1915, 
we  had  the  banner  year  in  the  his- 
tory of  that  mission  on  the  subject 
of  tithing.  We  had  one  of  the  ban- 
ner years  in  the  history  of  that  mis- 
sion, in  the  matter  of  fast  offering, 
and  we  had  the  banner  year  in  that 
mission  in  the  sum  total  of  the  char- 
ity that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  was  able  to 
distribute  among  the  people  of  that 
mission.  In  1916,  the  year  that  has 
just  closed, — and  the  figures  and 
the  remarks  that  are  made  are  based 


on  the  nine  months'  .experience  that 
we  had, the  reports  for  the  last  three 
months  not  being  in  our  posses- 
sion— we  baptized  over  three  hun- 
dred souls  in  that  mission.  There 
was  paid,  according  to  the  best  esti- 
mation that  I  am  able  to  furnish, 
twenty-two  thousand  dollars  in  tith- 
ing, one  hundred  ten  thousand 
francs.  Now  that  is  an  enormous 
sum  of  money  for  those  seven  thou- 
sand Saints  to  pay,  and  a  more  hon- 
est tithing  was  never  paid  in  all  the 
history  of  the  mission.  Why,  there 
were  five  hundred  of  our  men- from 
that  mission  who  were  taken  into 
the  war  immediately,  and  of  that 
five  hundred  we  had  lost  thirty- 
four  up  until  the  time  I  left.  Not- 
withstanding the  fact  that  these 
men  were  taken,  who  were  in  the 
.prime  of  life  and  were  the  most  vig- 
orous, the  most  stalwart  men  that 
we  had  in  the  Church,  we  surpassed 
all  previous  records  in  our  finances  ; 
we  gave  out  over  two  hundred  thou- 
sand tracts  and  pamphlets,  in  the 
year  1915,  and  I  am  satisfied  that 
in  1916  we  will  have  given  out  three 
hundred  thousand. 

The  work  of  the  Lord  is  progres- 
sing; it  is  the  Lord's  work.  The 
people  are  sympathetic  with  us,  and 
I  regret  at  times  to  find  here  a 
spirit  of  antagonism  toward  our 
people  over  there.  Let  me  tell  you 
how  I  feel.  I  feel  there  is  a  con- 
flict between  these  two  govern- 
ments, but  I  do  not  feel  that  there  is 
a  conflict  between  the  people,  not 
between  the  people  but  between  the 
governments.  We  have  had  sor- 
rowing times. 

I  want  to  say  a  word  about 
Brother  Kessler,  one  of  your  citi- 
zens of  this  city.  He  was  sent  over 
there  to  edit  the  mission  paper.  A 
more  faithful  man  was  never  sent 
to  us  to  perform  missionary  work, 


148 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  he  found  himself  in  a  most  dif- 
ficult position.  On  August  1,  1914, 
President  Hyrum  M.  Smith  and  I 
were  out  in  the  mission  traveling 
through  Germany.  The  war  came 
like  a  thunderbolt.  We  never  had 
a  word  of  warning  of  it  at  all. 
Brother  Kessler  said:  "I  carry  in 
my  pocket  a  sworn  statement,  an 
oath  that  I  will  be  ready  at  the 
moment  they  call  for  my  help."  He 
said  :  "I  could  not  look  my  country- 
men in  the  face  and  stand  here 
when  they  call  for  me  to  render  as- 
sistance." He  said,  "It  is  true  I 
have  been  sent  here  to  do  mission- 
ary work,  and  I  have  enjoyed  my 
work  most  exceedingly,  but  I  can't 
edit  the  paper  any  longer,  there  is 
nothing  here  but  turmoil.  We  will 
not  be  able  to  cross  the  boundary; 
I  can't  cross  the  boundary;  if  I  do, 
I  will  be  taken  as  a  deserter  and 
cast  into  prison  and  possibly  shot. 
I  don't  know  but  that  tomorrow  the 
French  will  rush  over  the  boundary 
here  into  Basel;  they  will  discover 
that  I  am  a  German  citizen,  and  I 
will  be  taken  a  prisoner  of  war  and 
interned.  I  don't  know  but  tomor- 
row the  Germans  themselves  will 
cross  over  the  boundary  here  and 
come  riding  in  a  street  car.  They 
could  come  in  a  street  car  and  ride 
into  the  city  of  Basel,  and  they 
could  come  here  and  take  me  as  a 
traitor  to  my  country.  I  may  be 
cast  into  prison,  I  may  be  executed. 
It  matters  not,"  he  said,  "but  I  feel 
I  must  go!"  In  the  anguish  of  his 
soul,  he  went  to  serve  his  country, 
and  there  is  no  criticism.  Oh,  I 
know  the  anguish  of  his  soul,  many 
days  after  he  had  gone  into  the  war, 
how  he  felt  what  a  burden  he  had 
taken  upon  himself.  He  might  have 
waited.  I  have  often  said  he  might 
have  waited  eight  days  and  Pres- 
ident Smith  would  have  been  there 


and  he  might  have  counseled  with 
him.  I  don't  think  the  result  would 
have  been  any  different,  but  he 
would  not  have  had  the  burden 
resting  on  his  shoulders.  I  want  to 
say  to  you,  he  was  just  as  true  a 
servant  and  a  soldier  in  his  coun- 
try's army  as  he  was  a  servant  of 
God  in  our  midst.  We  know  of  his 
example  from  the  letters  we  re- 
ceived from  the  officers  in  the  army, 
in  the  regiment,  in  the  division 
where  he  served,  and  he  is  a  credit 
to  our  people.  My  brethren  and 
sisters,  he  died  as  he  lived, — a  faith- 
ful Latter-day  Saint,  a  soldier  of  th; 
Cross,  though  enlisted  for  the  time 
being  with  his  country's  army. 

Another  beautiful  illustration  of 
the  fruits  of  the  gospel  is  found 
in  the  man  who  today  is  writing  for 
our  mission  paper.  I  regret  that 
our  mission  paper  does  not  come 
through.  Many  of  our  people  at 
home  have  felt  that  the  mission 
paper  was  not  being  published.  It 
is  not  true.  The  paper  is  being  pub- 
lished, but  it  has  been  unable  to 
pass  the  censor  since  about  the  first 
of  September,  1916.  Brother  Hof- 
mann  is  a  man  who,  before  he  came 
into  the  Church,  was  a  Social  Dem- 
ocrat who  did  not  believe  in  any- 
thing. Brother  William  Wright  of 
Ogden  was  delivering  a  lecture,  one 
night,  and  this  man  was  passing  the 
door.  He  heard  him  and  stepped 
in.  He  was  susceptible  to  the  teach- 
ings of  the  gospel,  he  joined  the 
Church.  He  is  a  very  fine  architect 
and  a  supervisor  of  buildings.  He 
was  almost  ready  to  pack  his  trunk 
and  his  grip  and  come  to  America, 
come  to  Zion,  that  he  might  serve 
the  Lord  more  faithfully.  We  felt 
impressed  to  call  him  on  a  mission 
in  March,  1914.  We  called  him  on 
a  mission  and  he  gave  up  his  plans 
gladly  and  went  out  into  the  mis- 


ELDER  H.  W.  VALENTINE. 


149 


sion  field.  On  August  7,  it  became 
necessary  for  him  to  join  his  regi- 
ment. He  said :  "Oh !  as  they 
buckled  on  to  me  that  tourn:ster 
and  gave  me  that  shining  gun  in 
my  hands,  do  you  know  what  my 
prayer  was?"  He  said  :  "I  prayed 
to  the  Lord  every  night  in  secret 
that  it  might  not  be  my  lot  to  shoot 
one  of  my  fellow  men.  I  did  not 
want  to  shoot  anybody;  and  oh, 
how  I  rejoiced  when,  after  seven 
■days  in  the  army,  I  was  assigned  to 
the  hospital  corps,  and  I  was  re- 
lieved of  the  responsibility  of  shed- 
ding the  blood  of  any  of  my  breth- 
ren." He  said :  "I  saw  an  answer 
to  my  prayer  there ;  and  when  I  was 
in  that  Good  Samaritan  work,  my 
fellow  comrade  and  I,  binding  the 
wounds  of  a  fallen  comrade,  a  gre- 
nade fell  in  between  us  and  tore 
from  him  his  arm  and  from  me  a 
leg.  I  thanked  God,"  he  said,  "to- 
day, that  I  escaped  from  that  ter- 
rible war  with  the  loss  of  a  foot  and 
a  leg." 

Do  you  know  how  pur  hearts  bled 
when  we  saw  that  big  man,  after 
having  been  released  from  the  hos- 
pital, returning  to  us  to  enter  into 
the  missionary  work,  he  came  with 
an  artificial  limb,  a  poorly  equipped 
artificial  limb,  and  two  heavy  canes, 
bearing  about  two  hundred  pounds' 
weight  largely  on  his  hands.  The 
tears  rolled  down  our  cheeks,  and 
I  wept.  Oh,  I  wept;  and  then  I 
saw  what  many  a  father  and  many 
a  mother  and  many  a  wife  and  child 
has  had  to  pass  through  in  this 
cruel  war.  But  he  laughed  and 
said :  "I  am  thankful  to  the  Lord 
that  I  escaped  with  the  loss  of  a 
foot  and  a  leg."  He  is  doing  valiant 
service,  and  has  done  now  for  near- 
ly two  years,  as  the  editor  of  our 
mission  paper.    I  have  thought  to- 


day, as  often  before,  what  would 
we  do  there  today,  were  it  not  for 
this  man?  He  is  almost  our  only 
support  there ;  because  now  that  we 
have  gotten  into  turmoil  and  war 
the  animosity  and  the  hatred  that 
grow  up  with  war  will  make  itself 
manifest  there. 

I  want  to  admonish  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters;  let  us  deal 
kindly  with  our  fellow  men.  We 
are  not  responsible  that  we  were 
born  in  this  country  of  freedom  and 
liberty.  Our  fathers  before  us 
fought  the  fight  and  bled  and  oh, 
how  their  hearts  were  torn  and  their 
paths  marked  by  the  blood  of  their 
feet  while  they  struggled  for  the 
freedom  that  we  enjoy.  I  feel  that 
such  is  the  struggle  that  is  going 
on  in  Europe  today.  I  feel  that  the 
struggle  over  there  is  a  struggle  for 
freedom  and  for  liberty  of  human 
rights  and  human  thoughts.  Of 
these  great  United  States  our 
Father  in  heaven  has  said :  "This 
is  a  choice  land,  choice  above  all 
other  lands,  reserved  for  my  own 
purposes."  I  wonder  what  his  pur- 
poses were?  Here  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  was  cradled,  and  it 
could  not  have  been  restored  else- 
where. It  has  gone  out  from  here 
to  all  the  nations  of  the  earth,  and 
the  messages  of  freedom  and  lib- 
erty have  gone  out  from  here.  I  .do 
not  feel  to  be  sorry  that  this  war 
has  come  as  it  has.  I  just  hope  that 
these  United  States  will  not  fall 
from  that  lofty  place  where  our 
Father  in  heaven  has  placed  them — 
the  guardians  of  human  rights  and 
human  liberty  and  freedom  in  every 
land,  in  every  clime.  If  we  stand 
for  that,  no  harm  can  come  to  any 
nation  by  reason  of  our  having  en- 
tered into  this  war,  when  the  foe 
has  fallen,  as  fall  he  must ! .  I  want 


150 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  tell  you  there  will  be  a  time  when 
this  country  needs  the  assistance  of 
every  patriotic  citizen,  to  see  that 
we  do  not  make  usury  out  of  the 
situation  that  has  been  placed  in  our 
hands.  Those  people  feel  kindly  to- 
ward us,  and  I  feel  kindly  toward 
them.  I  have  found  out,  through 
my  little  experience  in  life,  that 
when  I  have  not  loved  a  brother,  or 
a  sister,  it  has  always  been  because 
I  did  not  understand  them ;  and 
coming  to  understand  them,  I  have 
learned  to  love  them. 

Now  let  me  illustrate  exactly 
what  I  mean.  On  my  first  mission, 
seventeen  years  ago,  I  labored  with 
a  number  of  men,  all  of  different 
characters.  We  had  our  differences, 
but  I  learned  to  love  those  men,  and 
I  love  them  today  just  as  much  as 
I  love  my  own  brothers.  In  my  last 
missionary  experience,  I  had  the 
privilege  of  laboring  with  three 
hundred  fifty-six  elders.  They  were 
not  all  alike;  indeed,  they  were  all 
different,  and  yet  I  loved  those 
three  hundred  fifty-six  men,  and  I 
am  delighted,  every  Opportunity  I 
have,  to  see  them,  to  shake  their 
hands,  and  to  speak  to  them. 

I  have  .enjoyed  the  hospitality  of 
those  seven  thousand  Saints  in  that 
land.  I  have  eaten  their  food,  and 
so  have  your  boys  and  your  fathers 
— when  they  had  none  themselves. 
I  have  slept  in  their  beds,  when  they 
sat  down  in  chairs,  and  the  Lord 
has  blessed  them,  and  I  love  them 
for  that  charity,  because  I  have 
learned  to  know  them.  I  think  we 
can  do  a  great  work  here.  There 
is  going  to  be  trouble,  no  doubt  of 
it,  and  there  will  be  misunderstand- 
ings. A  man  is  likely  to  say  some- 
thing in  defense  of  his  country, 
and  saying  something  in  defense  of 
his   country,   in  times    of    war,   is 


likely  to  bring  some  trouble ;  but 
let  us  be  full  of  compassion.  Let 
us  be  full  of  love,  let  us  be  full  of 
the  spirit  of  the  gospel,  that  we 
may  lead  those  who  are  in  our 
midst,  who  have  been  placed  in  this 
trying  position,  and  not  antagonize 
them,  because  I  want  to  tell  you 
their  hearts  are  right.  They  are 
here  because  they  love  the  gospel ; 
they  love  this  country ;  and  the  fact 
that  they  cannot  divorce  themselves 
entirely  from  the  country  that  gave 
them  birth  and  livelihood  is  to'  their 
credit  and  not  to  their  shame. 

The  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to 
be  faithful  and  true  and  to  take  this 
spirit  of  frugality,  that  has  been  so 
emphasized  in  this  conference,  into 
every  nook  and  every  clime. 

When  we  were  returning  home, 
coal  was  selling  in  Paris  for  two 
hundred  francs  a  ton,  forty  .dollars 
a  ton  for  coal  in  Paris.  You  who 
have  been  in  Europe  know  what 
that  means — forty  dollars  a  ton,  and 
they  could  not  get  it.  Why  ?  Why 
there  was  coal  piled  up  on  the  wharf 
at  Havre,  hundreds  and  thousands 
of  ship  loads,  but  it  was  not  reach-, 
ing  the  people  because  they  did  not 
have  the  rolling  stock  to  move  it  to 
them.  Haven't  ye  got  mountains 
and  mountains  of  coal  in  this  great 
state?  And  how  many  of  us  have 
not  been  on  the  verge  of  freezing 
because  they  could  not  get  the  coal 
to  us? 

As  I  have  traveled  to  and  fro,  in 
the  little  time  that  I  have  been  at 
home,  I  have  seen  the  cattle  stand- 
ing huddled  up  beffnd  a  cedar  post, 
growing  smaller  every  day,  and  at 
the  same  time  consuming  a  good 
real  of  feed.  Wouldn't  it  be  a  good 
deal  better  for  us  to  take  care  of 
these  we  have,  instead  of  reaching 
out  and  trying  to  get  a  lot  more, 


ELDER  H.  W.  VALENTINE. 


161 


that  might  stand  around  and  freeze 
to  death  and  turn  out  to  be  only 
hides !  Frugality  is  what  we  want. 
"Why,  we  have  got  the  money  to 
pay  for  it,"  says  one,  but  what  good 
will  it  do  that  we  have  the  money 
to  pay  for  it  if  we  can't  get  what  we 
want?  The  same  with  potatoes,  the 
same  with  wheat,  the  same  with 
trimmings  of  the  orchards,  and  the 
same  with  these  waste  places  that 
have  been  spoken  of  that  we  should 
cultivate,  not  only  for  the  crop  that 
we  get,  not  so  much  for  the  prize, 
but  what  a  valuable  lesson  to  our 
boys  and  girls  and  to  our  men  and 
women,  if  we  can  instil  in  their 
hearts  the  spirit  of  thrift  and  fru- 
gality, and  curb  this  spirit  of  ex- 
travagance and  extrem:ty ;  because, 
some  day,  as  sure  as  the  Lord  lives, 
we  will  be  brought  to  acocunt.  If  I 
can  interpret  the  spirit  of  the  gos- 
pel, it  is-  one  great  round  of  fru- 
gality. The  law  of  God  is  the  law 
of  nature.  Who  ever  saw  nature 
wasting  anything?  Who  ever  saw 
the  elements  wasting  anything? 
Why,  they  conserve  everything. 
The  law  of  nature  is  the  law  of 
God,  and  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
is  the  law  of  God  to  man,  and  it  is 
frugab'ty  from  beginning  to  end. 
Let  us  remember  it  and  husband  our 
resources.  » 

The  Lord  bless  you  all,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters.  I  am  talking  too 
•long,  but  I  appreciate  the  oppor- 
tunity of  giving  you  this  little  re- 
port, and  bearing  my  testimony  to 
you  with  respect  to  the  integrity  of 
the  people  who  comprise  the  Saints 
of  the  Swiss-German  mission.  Let 
us  be  charitable  with  them,  and 
with  those  who  are  in  our  midst 
who  are  placed  in  a  most  trying 
situation  by  reason  of  the  war  that 
has  been  projected.  The  Lord  bless 
you  in  the  name  of  Jesus.     Amen. 


AUDITOR'S  REPORT. 

Elder  George  Albert  Smith 
read  the  following  report  of  the 
auditing  committee : 

Salt  Lake  City,  April  6th,  1917. 
Presidents  Joseph  F.  Smith,  An- 
thon  H.  Lund,  Charles  W.  Pen- 
rose, First  Presidency  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints. 

Dear  Brethren:  We,  the  under- 
signed members  of  the  Auditing 
Committee  of  the  Church,  beg  leave 
to  report,  that  we  have  made  an 
examination  of  the  books  and  ac- 
counts of  the  Trustee-in-Trust  as 
well  as  those  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric,  for  the  year  1916,  and, 
incidentally,  also  of  the  various  or- 
ganizations of  the  Church,  in  rela- 
tion to  their  financial  affairs.  We 
have  found  everything  in  a  very 
satisfactory  condition.  The  meth- 
od of  accounting  is  intelligently  and 
skilfully  done. 

It  is  gratifying  to  the  committee 
to  say  that  the  disbursements  of  the 
funds  of  the  Church  have  been 
made  along  beneficent  lines  and  for 
the  general  good  of  the  whole  body 
of  the  Church.  We  desire  to  make 
special -mention  of  the  very  useful 
work  done  by  the  Latter-day  Saints 
Hospital,  and  the  Dee  Hospital  of 
Ogden,  and  the  Deseret  Gymna- 
sium, and  it  is  pleasing  also  to  note 
the  erection  of  the  new  Church  ■ 
Office  building.  It  reflects  the  ad- 
vancement of  the  Church.  The  ap- 
propriations made  for  the  support 
of  the  poor,  and  for  the  cause  of 
education,  and  for  the  erection  and 
enlargement  of  stake  houses  and 
meeting  houses,  both  at  home  and 
abroad,  is  a  matter  of  gratification. 
In  a  word,  we  have  found  every- 


152 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


thing  satisfactory,  and  we  so  cer- 
tify. 

You  will  observe  that  this  report 
is  signed  by  only  three  members  out 
of  a  committee  of  five.  It  has  been 
a  cause  of  regret  to  us  that,  through 
the  demise  of  Joseph  S.  Wells,  we 
lost  the  assistance  of  a  very  valu- 
able and  intelligent  man.  Judge  H. 
H.  Rolapp  has  been  absent  from  the 
city  during  our  audit,  and  we  lost 
the  benefit '  of  his  intelligent  ser- 
vices. 

Hoping  that  God  may  continue 
to  bless  you  and  give  you  strength 
and  wisdom  for  the  great  responsi- 
bility resting  upon  you,  we  sub- 
scribe ourselves, 

Your  brethren  in  the  gospel, 
(Signed)     W.  W.  Riter, 

John  C.  Cutler, 
Heber  Scowcroft, 
Church  Auditing  Committee. 

AUTHORITIES     SUSTAINED. 

Elder  Hyrum  M.  Smith  pre- 
sented the  names  of  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church,  which 
were  voted  upon  by  the  assembly, 
as  follows: 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  Prophet,  Seer 
and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  First  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency. 

Charles  W.  Penrose,  as  Second 
Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

Heber  J.  Grant,  as  President  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles. 

As  Members  of  the  Council  of 
Twelve  Apostles  :  Heber  J.  Grant, 
Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot,  Hy- 
rum M.  Smith,  George  Albert 
Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson 
F.  Whitney,  David  O.  McKay,  An- 
thony W.  Ivins,  Joseph  F.  Smith, 


Jr.,  James  E.  Talmage,  and  Stephen 
L.  Richards. 

Hyrum  G.  Smith,  as  Presiding 
Patriarch  of  the  Church. 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Pres- 
idency, the  Twelve  Apostles  and 
Patriarch,  as  Prophets,  Seers  and 
Revelators. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Sev- 
enty: Seymour  B.  Young,  Brig- 
ham  H.  Roberts,  Jonathan  G.  Kim- 
ball, Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W. 
McMurrin,  Charles  H.  Hart,  and 
Levi  Edgar  Young. 

Charles  W.  Nibley,  as  Presiding 
Bishop,  with  Orrin  P.  Miller  and 
David  A.  Smith,  as  his  First  and 
Second  Counselors. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  Trustee-in- 
Trust  for  the  body  of  religious 
worshipers  known  as  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  Church  His- 
torian and  General  Church  Re- 
corder. 

Andrew  Jenson,  Brigham  H. 
Roberts,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr.,  and 
August  William  Lund,  Assistant 
Historians. 

As  Members  of  the  General 
Board  of  Education :  Joseph  F. 
Smith'Willard  Young,  Anthon  H. 
Lund,  George  H.  Brimhall,  Rudger 
Clawson,  Charles  W.  Penrose,  Hor- 
ace H.  Cummings,  and  Orson  F. 
Whitney. 

Arthur  Winter,  as  Secretary  and 
Treasurer  to  the  General  Church' 
Board  of  Education. 

Horace  H.  Cummings,  General 
Superintendent  of  Church  Schools. 

Board  of  Examiners  for  Church 
Schools :  Horace  H.  Cummings, 
Chairman ;  George  H.  Brimhall,  C. 
N.  Jensen,  and  Guy  C.  Wilson. 

Auditing  Committee :  William 
W.  Riter,  Henry  H.  Rolapp,  John 
C.  Cutler,  Heber  Scowcroft,  and 
Peter  G.  Johnston. 


AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED. 


153 


Tabernacle  Choir :  Anthony  C. 
Lund,  Conductor;  Horace  S.  En- 
sign and  B.  Cecil  Gates,  Assistant 
Conductors ;  John  J.  McClellan,  Or- 
ganist; Edward  P.  Kimball  and 
Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Assistant  Organ- 
ists ;  George  C.  Smith,  Secretary 
and  Treasurer ;  and  all  the  Mem- 
bers. 

Edward  H.  Anderson,  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

Each  and  all  of  those  named 
were  sustained  in  the  positions  .des- 
ignated, by  unanimous  vote  of  the 
people. 

The  choir  sang:  "Hail  bright 
abode." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  Seymour  B.  Young. 


Conference  adjourned  for  six 
months. 

Prof.  Anthon  C.  Lund  conducted 
the  singing  of  the  choir  and  congre- 
gation at  the  conference  meetings 
in  the  Tabernacle.  Prof.  John  J. 
McClellan  played  the  accompani- 
ments, interludes,  etc.,  on  the  great 
organ,  assisted  by  Edward  P.  Kim- 
ball and  Tracy  Y.  Cannon. 

The  stenographic  reports  of  the 
discourses  were  taken  in  the  Taber- 
nacle by  Elder  Franklin  W.  Otter- 
strom,  and  in  the  Assembly  Hall 
and  at  the  Bureau  of  Information, 
by  Elders  Frederick  E.  Barker  and 
Fred  G.  Barker. 

Edward  H.  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  Conference. 


THREE  IMPORTANT 

NEW  BOOKS 


THE  RESTORATION  OF  THE  GOSPEL 

By  OSBORNE  J.  P.  WIDTSOE,  A.  M.,  of  the 

University  of  Utah. 

With  an  introduction  by  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr.,  of 

the  Twelve. 

Adopted  by  all  L.  D.  S.  Church  Schools.    Bound  in 

cloth,  75c  postpaid. 

TWO  BOOKS  THAT  EVERY  L.  D.  S. 

FAMILY  SHOULD  HAVE 

The  L.  D.  S.  Family  and  Individual  Record,  ap- 
proved by  the  Church  Authorities,  in  which  to 
enter  the  most  important  events  and  dates  in  the 
histories  of  families  and  individuals.  Price  $1.25 
postpaid. 

Family  Record  of  Temple  Work  for  the  Dead. 
$1.25  and  upward. 

JOSEPH  SMITH'S  TEACHINGS 

This  book  contains  the  Prophet's  sermons  and  re- 
ligious doctrinal  writings,  gathered  from  the  six 
volumes  of  the  authorized  "History  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,"  and  arranged 
according  to  subject  in  alphabetical  order.  Price, 
75c  postpaid. 

nun 


WRITE  FOR  COMPLETE  CATALOG  FREE 

DESERET  NElWS  BOOKS  STORE 

No.  6  MAIN  STREET,     -      SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


HISTORY  OF 
THE  CHURCH 


Compiled  by  the  Church  Historians  and 
Published  by  the  Church 

IN  SIX  VOLUMES 
COMPLETING  THE  FIRST  PERIOD 


ttn 


'The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with 
introduction  and  notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts. 

A  remarkably  low  price  has  been  placed  on  the 
History  by  the  First  Presidency  to  secure  the  widest 
possible  circulation. 

Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  and 
Private  Library  should  have  a  6et. 

Cloth- — Embossed,  per  Vol $1.50  postpaid 

Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  Vol 2.50 

Half  Calf— Gilt  Top,perVol 2.50 

Full  Morocco— Full  Gilt  Edge,  per  Vol.  4.00 


mil 

WRITE  FOR  COMPLETE  CATALOG,  FREE 

DESERET   NEWS  BOOK  STORE 

No.  6  MAIN  STREET,     -      SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


