OnsL  dimdhsd.  Jowdsstdk. 
ANNUAL 

COHDCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

OfvdL  6,  7  and,  9,  19M 

With  Report  of  Discourses 

Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

PRINTED  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA 


FOR  YOUR  CONSIDERATION 

WE  PRESENT 

JhsL  (Book  ofc  QfloimotL 

The  latest  edition  cornea  to  you  In  four  different  bindings.  Of  course  the  tea* 
remains  the  same. 

Missionary  Edition  50c — by  mail  60c 

Cloth  Binding,  Embossed    JS1.50 

Full  Morocco  $3.50 

J>JwjfL  (plowboif  to  (pJwph&L 

AND 

OTZoihsJL  SfoiieA,  piom,  Uisl  Book  of*  OTlotmofu 

By  WILLIAM  A.  MORTON 

This  delightful  voluma  republished  as  a  reiteration  of  the  stories  that  children 
lore  to  hear  and  to  read. 

Price  in  Cloth    .$1.25 

JOu^  to  Jhsioloqi^ 

By  PARLEY  P.  PRATT 
(Reprint  warranted  by  demand) 

"Alms  to  embody  In  a  concise  and  somewhat  original  manner  and  style, 
a  general  view  of  the  Science  of  Theology  as  gathered  from  revelation,  history, 
prophecy,  reason  and  analogy." 

Price    _   Sim 

9ti&t&u^  ofc  JhsL  tfhwuJv 

Presented  in  two  important  sets  and  recommended  to  you  as  a  vital  record. 

DOCUMENTARY  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH 
By  Prophet  loseph  Smith 
Presented  in  7  volumes 

COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH 
Presented  in  6  volumes 
For  prices  and  other  Information  we  urge  you  to  write  to  us. 


DESER.ET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY  10.  UTAH 


The  One  Hundred  Fourteenth  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 

The  One  Hundred  Fourteenth  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  great  Tabernacle,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah,  Thursday,  Friday,  and  Sunday,  April  6,  7,  and  9,  1944. 

Sessions  of  the  Conference  were  held  as  follows :  Thursday  at  10 
a.m.  and  2  p.m.,  Friday  at  10  a.m.  and  2  and  7  p.m.,  Sunday  at  10  a.m. 
and  2  p.m. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  Radio  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  the 
proceedings  of  the  Conference,  with  the  exception  of  the  Friday  evening 
meeting,  were  broadcast  for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

President  Hebar  J.  Grant  was  present  and  presided  at  all  sessions 
of  the  Conference  except  the  Friday  evening  meeting.  President  J.  Reu- 
ben Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  presided  at  th  it 
meeting,  and,  at  the  request  of  President  Grant,  President  Clark  con- 
ducted the  services  at  all  of  the  sessions  of  the  Conference. 

Owing  to  conditions  incident  to  the  War  emergency,  the  general 
public  were  not  invited  to  attend  the  Conference.  Those  present  con- 
sisted of  the  following : 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  Present 

The  First  Presidency:  Heber  J.  Grant,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and 
David  O.  McKay. 

The  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles :  George  Albert  Smith,  George 

F.  Richards,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  *  ,  John  A. 
Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Charles  A.  Callis,  A.  E.  Bowen,  Harold  B. 
Lee,  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  T.  Benson,  and  Mark  E.  Petersen.** 

Patriarch  to  the  Church :  Joseph  F.  Smith. 

Assistants/  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles :  Marion  G.  Rom- 
ney,  Thomas  E.  McKay,  Clifford  E.  Young,  Alma  Sonne,  and  Nicholas 

G.  Smith. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy :  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R. 
Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  John  H.  Taylor,  ***,  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
Oscar  A.  Kirkham. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric:  LeGrand  Richards,  Marvin  O.  Ashton, 
and  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin. 


*  Richard  R.  Lyman  excommunicated  from  the  Church  November 
12,  1943. 

**Mark  E.  Petersen  was  sustained  at  this  Conference  as  a  member  of 

the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 
***Rufus  K.  Hardy  excused  because  of  illness. 


2 

Thunday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


Other  Authorities  and  Officers  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder :  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  A.  Wil- 
liam Lund,  assistant. 

Members  of  the  General  Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 

Superintendency  and  Priesthood  members  of  Deseret  Sunday  School 
Union  Board. 

Superintendency  and  members  of  General  Board  of  the  Y. M.M.I. A. 
Commissioner,  Seminary  Supervisors  and  members  of  the  Church 
Board  of  Education. 

Temple  Presidencies. 

Presidencies  of  Stakes,  former  Presidencies  of  Stakes,  Stake  Clerks, 
former  Presidents  of  Missions,  Patriarchs,  High  Councilmen,  Presi- 
dencies of  High  Priests  Quorums,  Group  leaders  of  High  Priests,  Presi- 
dencies of  Seventies  quorums,  Presidencies  of  Elders  quorums,  Bishop- 
rics of  Wards,  Presidencies  of  Independent  Branches,  and  Presidents  of 
Dependent  Branches  in  organized  Stakes. 

Mission  Presidents:  David  A.  Smith,  Temple  Square;  Gustave  A. 
Iverson,  Eastern  States ;  William  H.  Reeder,  Jr.,  New  England;  David 
I.  Stoddard,  Northern  States;  William  L.  Killpack,  North  Central 
States ;  Thomas  C.  Romney,  Central  States ;  Heber  C.  Meeks,  Southern 
States;  William  L.  Warner,  Texas;  Graham  H.  Doxey,  East  Central 
States ;  Elbert  R.  Curtis,  Western  States  ;  Elijah  Allen,  California ;  Ger- 
man E.  Ellsworth,  Northern  California;  Desla  S.  Bennion,  Northwestern 
States ;  Octave  W.  Ursenbach,  Canada ;  Walter  Miller,  Western  Canada  ; 
Arwell  L.  Pierce,  Mexico;  Lorin  F.  Jones,  Spanish- American ;  Ralph 
William  Evans,  Navajo-Zuni. 

FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  opening  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle, 
Thursday,  April  6,  and  convened  promptly  at  10  o'clock  a.m. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the  114th  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

The  Church  was  organized  under  the  direction  of  the  Lord  1 14  years 
ago  today,  with  six  members.  Its  membership  today  is  approaching 
1,000,000. 

k  There  is  on  the  stand  this  morning  our  honored,  our  revered,  and 
beloved  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  who  is  presiding  at  this  Conference. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


We  thank  our  Heavenly  Father  that  He  has  so  blessed  President  Grant 
that  he  is  able  to  be  with  us  today.  On  the  stand  also  are  all  the  other 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  except  President  Rufus  K.  Hardy  of 
the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  who  is  detained  from  the  Conference  on 
orders  of  his  physician  by  an  illness  from  which  he  has  not  yet  fully  re- 
covered. We  send  our  love  and  greetings  to  him  and  our  prayers  for  his 
early  and  complete  recovery. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  is  the  Clerk  of  the  Conference. 

President  Grant  has  requested  his  First  Counselor,  President  Clark, 
who  is  speaking,  to  conduct  the  Conference  services. 

This  full  service  will  be  broadcast  over  Station  K.S.L.,  Salt  Lake 
City,  as  will  also  the  service  this  afternoon  beginning  at  2  p.m.  The 
services  tomorrow,  Friday,  at  10 :00  a.m.  and  2 :00  p.m.  will  likewise  be 
broadcast  over  K.S.L.,  and  also  the  two  services  on  Sunday  at  the  same 
hours.  There  will  be  no  sessions  of  the  General  Conference  on  Saturday. 

The  singing  will  be  by  the  congregation,  composed  of  several  thou- 
sand members  of  the  Priesthood  leadership  of  the  Church. 

Conductor :  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall. 

Organist :  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper. 

The  first  song  will  be  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet." 

Song  Folder  No.  8,  L.D.S.  Hymn  Book  288 

Hymn  Book  No.  152 

Words  by  William  Fowler 

Music  by  Mrs.  Norton 
We  suggest  that  our  audience  of  the  air  join  in  the  singing  of  the 
Conference. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  George  A.  Christen- 
sen  of  the  Emigration  Stake. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  A 
Prophet." 

Elder  George  A.  Christensen,  President  of  the  Emigration  Stake, 
offered  the  invocation. 

Singing  by  the  congregation,  "I  Know  That  My  Redeemer  Lives" — 
Words  from  a  Medley,  Music  by  Lewis  D.  Edwards  (L.D.S.  Hymns 
No.  290). 


President  Clark :  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  President  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  has  prepared  a  message  for  the 
people,  which  will  now  be  read  by  the  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  Elder 
Joseph  Anderson. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  am  grateful  that  the  Lord  has  lengthened  my  life  and  increased  my 
strength  so  that  I  may  have  the  privilege  and  the  joy  of  meeting  with  you 
at  another  general  conference  of  the  Church. 

I  am  grateful  I  can  say  that  I  feel  I  am  better  now  than  I  was  at  the 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  '  First  Day 

conference  six  months  ago.  I  am  able  to  work  nearly  half  of  each  day 
at  my  office,  and  sometimes  more,  with  the  counsel  and  consent  of  my  doc- 
tor. It  is  his  recommendation,  however,  that  I  do  not  speak  at  this  time, 
and  so  I  shall  ask  your  forbearance  while  that  which  I  have  to  say  shall 
be  read.  If  I  were  on  my  feet,  speaking  under  the  momentary  prompt- 
ings of  the  Spirit,  perhaps  it  would  be  given  to  me  to  say  more  things  in 
addition  to  those  which  are  here  written — and  I  ask  the  Lord  that  he  may 
direct  all  who  speak  during  this  conference,  that  they  may  speak  under 
the  guiding  influence  of  his  holy  spirit,  and  that  those  things  which  are 
now  read,  and  those  things  which  shall  yet  be  spoken,  will  further  bear 
witness  of  the  truthfulness  of  the  cause  in  which  we  are  met,  and  give 
comfort  and  counsel  to  all  who  shall  hear  or  read  them. 

As  I  sit  in  this  tabernacle  my  mind  goes  back  over  the  many  years 
that  have  passed  since  we  first  began  holding  meetings  here.  I  see  the 
leaders  of  this  people  who  have  come  and  gone — from  Brigham  Young 
on  down — and  I  can  see  generations  of  the  Priesthood  of  Israel  who  have 
gathered  here  to  learn  their  duty,  to  renew  their  faith,  and  to  go  forth 
to  labor  for  the  furtherance  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Faces 
and  events  pass  in  memory — the  faces  of  mighty  men  of  God,  most  of 
whom  have  long  since  finished  their  work  here- — and  you,  my  brethren, 
have  taken  their  places,  and  carry  forward  the  work  from  where  they 
left  it. 

My  Brother's  Conversion 

As  I  sit  here  today,  I  remember  what  to  me  was  one  of  the  greatest 
of  all  the  incidents  in  my  life,  in  this  tabernacle.  One  Sunday  afternoon, 
nearly  fifty  years  ago,  I  came  here  as  one  of  the  youngest  of  the  apostles 
to  attend  the  meeting,  and  saw  for  the  first  time  in  the  congregation,  my 
brother  who  had  been  careless,  indifferent,  and  wayward,  and  who  had 
evinced  no  interest  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  My  brother,  Fred, 
and  I  had  engaged  in  a  venture  which  had  failed.  We  had  both  placed 
all  that  we  had  in  it  and  more.  Feeling  that  he  had  ruined  me  financially 
and  being  without  that  faith  which  sustains  in  time  of  crisis,  Fred  went 
into  the  woods  with  the  intention  of  taking  his  own  life.  Finally,  he  got 
down  on  his  knees  and  prayed,  "O  God,  if  there  is  a  God!"  When  he 
got  up  from  his  knees,  he  threw  his  pistol  into  the  brush,  and  sat  down 
and  wrote  me  a  letter,  saying  that  he  knew  there  was  a  God  who  told  men 
to  do  good,  and  that  there  was  a  devil  who  inspired  men  to  destroy  their 
own  lives,  which  is  second  only  to  murder. 

As  soon  as  he  had  written  the  letter  a  spirit  came  over  him  telling 
him,  "The  minute  your  brother  gets  that  letter  he  will  insist  on  you  being 
baptized.  You  are  a  fine  specimen  to  be  baptized;  you  are  one  of  the 
worst  prof aners  in  the  country ;  you  once  had  an  interest  in  a  gambling 
house."  And  so  he  threw  the  letter  into  his  trunk  instead  of  mailing  it. 

The  next  night  he  wrote  the  same  thing  again,  and  shed  more  tears, 
but  did  not  have  the  courage  to  send  me  that  letter  either.  He  wrote  three 
such  letters  and  put  them  all  into  his  trunk.  Finally,  he  wrote  again  and 
said,  "Heber,  this  letter  is  going  to  be  mailed,"  and  he  went  to  the  post 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


office  and  mailed  it.  He  fought  all  night  with  himself,  and  got  up  before 
daylight  and  went  to  the  post  office  and  got  the  letter  out  and  threw  it  in 
the  trunk  also.  Finally,  he  wrote  again  and  said,  "This  letter  will  surely 
be  mailed."  He  did  mail  it,  and  again  he  got  up  before  daylight  and 
started  for  the  post  office  to  get  it  out,  but  came  to  a  large  post  or  pole 
and  threw  his  arm  around  it,  and  said,  "I  am  going  to  stand  here  and  hold 
on  until  the  mail  goes  out,"  which  he  did. 

When  I  got  his  letter,  instead  of  my  writing  and  telling  him  he  was 
to  be  baptized  I  wrote  him  and  said,  "Fred,  maybe  now  that  you  know 
there  is  a  God  and  a  devil,  you  think  I  will  ask  you  to  be  baptized,  but  as 
long  as  you  live  I  do  not  want  you  to  be  baptized  until  you  yourself  have 
faith  in  the  truth  of  the  Gospel." 

I  bought  a  Book  of  Mormon  and  took  it  to  my  office,  and  I  prayed  to 
The  Lord  that  when  I  opened  it  it  would  be  to  the  best  passage  in  the 
entire  book  for  my  brother.  It  opened  to  the  36th  chapter  of  Alma, 
wherein  Alma  tells  of  his  going  about  with  the  sons  of  Mosiah,  fighting 
against  the  Church,  and  that  he  had  suffered  the  torments  of  the  damned, 
but  after  praying  to  the  Lord  and  becoming  converted  to  the  truth  he  had 
exquisite  joy,  and  from  that  day  he  had  labored  unceasingly  to  bring  souls 
to  a  knowledge  of  God. 

I  turned  that  page  down,  and  I  turned  down  a  page  at  chapter  29 
wherein  Alma  says  :  "O  that  I  were  an  angel,  and  could  have  the  wish  of 
mine  heart,  that  I  might  go  forth  and  speak  with  the  trump  of  God,  with 
a  voice  to  shake  the  earth,  and  cry  repentance  unto  every  people !"  I  felt 
that  those  comments  were  the  best  in  the  whole  book  for  my  brother, 
and  I  thanked  the  Lord  that  the  book  had  opened  to  the  36th  chapter  of 
Alma,  and  for  prompting  me  also  to  think  of  the  29th  chapter.  When, 
after  this,  I  saw  Fred  for  the  first  time  in  this  building,  and  realized  that 
he  was  seeking  God  for  light  and  knowledge  regarding  the  divinity  of 
this  work,  I  bowed  my  head  and  I  prayed  that  if  I  were  requested  to  ad- 
dress the  audience,  the  Lord  would  inspire  me  by  the  revelation  of  His 
Spirit,  to  speak  in  such  manner  that  my  brother  would  have  to  acknowl- 
edge to  me  that  I  had  spoken  beyond  my  natural  ability,  that  I  had  been 
inspired  of  the  Lord.  ^ 

I  realized  that  if  he  made  that  confession,  then  I  should  be  able  to 
point  out  to  him  that  God  had  given  him  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of 
this  work. 

President  Angus  M.  Cannon,  who  was  presiding  at  the  meeting, 
came  to  me  and  said :  "Brother  Milton  Bennion  is  here  and  has  been 
invited  to  speak,  but  he  can  come  some  other  day." 

I  said :  "I  never  speak  long.  Let  Brother  Bennion  take  all  the  time 
he  needs  and  I  will  take  what  time  is  left." 

Brother  Bennion  told  of  his  visit  around  the  world;  among  other 
things,  of  visiting  the  Holy  Land  and  the  sepulchre  of  Jesus. 

While  he  was  speaking,  I  took  out  of  my  pocket  a  Ready  Reference 
that  I  always  carried,  and  marked  some  passages  that  tell  of  the  vicarious 
work  for  the  dead,  of  the  announcement  that  Jesus  went  and  preached  to 
the  spirits  in  prison,  and  proclaimed  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  them 

- 

.  * 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  Pi"t  Day 

....  I  intended  to  preach  upon  the  fact  that  the  Savior  of  the  world  had 
not  only  brought  the  Gospel  to  every  soul  upon  the  earth,  but  also  that  it 
reached  back  to  all  those  who  had  died  without  a  knowledge  of  it,  and  that 
they  would  have  the  privilege  of  hearing  it.  In  choosing  this  subject,  I 
thought,  "What  will  appeal  most  to  my  brother  ?"  Our  father  had  died 
when  Fred  was  six  weeks  old,  and  realizing  that  work  was  being  done 
where  his  father  now  is,  it  seemed  to  me  that  this  was  the  best  subject  I 
could  discuss. 

When  it  came  time  for  me  to  speak,  I  remember  standing  here  at  this 
pulpit,  feeling  that  this  was  perhaps  the  greatest  of  all  the  great  themes 
that  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  had  to  proclaim  to  the  world.  I  lajd  the 
book  down,  opened  at  that  page.  I  said:  "I  cannot  tell  you  just  why, 
but  never  before  in  all  my  life  have  I  desired  so  much  the  inspiration  of 
the  Lord  as  I  desire  it  today."  I  asked  the  people  for  their  faith  and 
prayers.  I  prayed  for  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  and  I  never  thought  of 
the  book  from  that  minute  until  I  sat  down  thirty  minutes  later.  I  closed 
my  remarks  at  twelve  minutes  after  three  o'clock,  expecting  that  Presi- 
dent George  Q.  Cannon,  who  was  also  present,  would  follow  me.  Brother 
Angus  Cannon  came  to  the  upper  stand,  and  said,  "Brother  George,  there 
are  forty-eight  minutes  left  for  you ;  will  you  occupy  the  rest  of  the 
time  ?" 

Brother  George  Q.  Cannon  declined,  and  indicated  that  he  thought  it 
would  be  a  good  time  to  close  the  meeting.  But  Brother  Angus  refused 
to  take  "No"  for  an  answer,  and  said :  "I  am  not  going  to  waste  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  If  you  don't  speak,  I  shall  call  on  somebody  else  to 
occupy  the  balance  of  the  time. 

Brother  Cannon  said,  finally :  "All  right,  I  will  say  something.  And 
he  arose  and  said  in  substance : 

"There  are  times  when  the  Lord  Almighty  inspires  some  speaker  by 
the  revelations  of  His  Spirit,  and  he  is  so  abundantly  blessed  by  the  in- 
spiration of  the  living  God  that  it  is  a  mistake  for  anybody  else  to  speak 
following  him,  and  one  of  those  occasions  has  been  today  in  the  address 
of  Brother  Grant,  and  I  therefore  ask  President  Angus  Cannon  to  call 
on  someone  to  offer  the  benediction,  after  the  choir  has  sung,  and  dismiss 
the  meeting."  Of  course  Brother  Angus  could  do  nothing  else. 

When  I  sat  down  after  my  talk,  I  remembered  that  my  book  was  still 
lying  open  on  the  pulpit.  President  George  Q.  Cannon  was  sitting  just 
behind  me  in  the  President's  seat,  and  I  heard  him  say  to  himself :  "Thank 
God  for  the  power  of  that  testimony !"  When  I  heard  this  I  remembered 
that  I  had  forgotten  the  sermon  I  had  intended  to  deliver,  and  the  tears 
gushed  from  my  eyes  like  rain,  and  I  rested  my  elbows  on  my  knees  and 
put  my  hands  over  my  face,  so  that  the  people  by  me  could  not  see  that 
I  was  weeping  like  a  child.  I  knew  when  I  heard  those  words  of  George 
Q.  Cannon  that  God  had  heard  and  answered  my  prayer.  I  knew  that 
my  brother's  heart  was  touched. 

I  devoted  my  thirty  minutes  almost  entirely  to  a  testimony  of  my 
knowledge  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  to  the  wonderful 
and  marvelous  labors  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  bearing  witness  to 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


the  knowledge  God  had  given  me  that  Joseph  Smith  was  in  very  deed  a 
prophet  of  the  true  and  living  God.  I  will  not  take  time  here  to  repeat 
that  whole  sermon,  but  some  paragraphs  from  it  I  should  like  to  recall 
how.   I  said: 

"It  affords  deep  interest,  no  doubt,  to  all  the  Latter-day  Saints  who 
are  here,  as  well  as  to  those  who  are  not  members  of  the  Church,  ...  to 
listen  to  a  recital  that  has  any  bearing  upon  the  life  and  labors  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  a  remarkable  fact  that  we  can  never  read 
of  the  labors  which  he  performed,  or  listen  to  others  speaking  of  the  great 
work  which  he  accomplished,  without  taking  pleasure  in  it,  while  on  the 
other  hand,  there  is  nothing  so  interesting  in  the  life  and  history  of  any 
other  individual  but  what  by  hearing  or  reading  it  time  and  time  again 
we  become  tired  of  it.  I  can  bear  testimony,  from  my  own  experience, 
that  the  oftener  I  read  of  the  life  and  labors  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ  the  greater  are  the  joy,  the  peace,  the  happiness,  the  satisfaction 
that  fill  my  soul  in  contemplating  what  he  did. 

"It  is  also  a  source  of  unbounded  joy  to  me  and  fills  my  heart  beyond 
my  power  of  expression  to  contemplate  the  fact  that  God  our  Heavenly 
Father  and  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  have  visited  the  earth  and  again  re- 
vealed the  gospel  to  man ;  and  it  fills  me  with  thanksgiving  and  gratitude, 
far  beyond  my  power  to  tell,  that  he  has  blessed  me  with  a  knowledge  of 
the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  The  Lord  in  this  re- 
gard has  been  no  respecter  of  persons.  The  humble,  the  poor,  the  un- 
learned (so  far  as  the  education  of  this  world  is  concerned)  have  been  as 
abundantly  blessed  of  God  with  this  testimony  as-  those  that  have  had 
more  abundantly  of  the  things  of  this  world.  We  find  people  that  have 
been  gathered  from  all  the  nations  of  the  earth,  in  fulfilment  of  the 
prophecies  that  were  uttered  thousands  of  years  ago,  that  the  Saints 
should  be  brought  to  the  tops  of  the  mountains  and  that  the  Lord  would 
establish  His  work  here ;  and  this  people  are  blessed  with  a  testimony  of 
the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  they  are  engaged.  .  .  .  No  power  upon 
the  face  of  the  earth,  not  the  wisdom  of  all  the  wise  men  combined,  could 
ever  have  united  the  hearts  and  the  souls  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  God 
has  united  them.  .  .  . 

"While  I  was  visiting  in  St.  George  and  talking  with  the  president 
of  the  St.  George  Stake  of  Zion,  I  was  forcibly  reminded  of  the  faith  that 
burns  in  the  hearts  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  He  was  speaking  of  his 
early  experience,  and  he  told  me  that  one  day  President  Young  said  to 
him,  'Brother  McArthur,  within  ten  days  I  wish  you  to  prepare  to  go  on 
a  mission  to  Europe,  and  I  expect  you  to  be  absent  for  four  and  perhaps 
seven  years.'  That  very  day  that  he  was  told  to  get  ready  he  had  a  child 
born,  and  when  he  returned  home  the  child  was  over  four  years  of  age. 

"In  going  upon  that  mission  he  did  not  have  the  means  .  .  .  ,  but  he 
sold  some  property  that  was  worth  three  or  four  times  as  much  as  he  was 
able  to  get  for  it ;  in  fact,  some  few  months  after,  it  changed  hands  for 
about  four  times  more  than  what  he  sold  it  for.  He  made  this  sacrifice, 
and  without  one  dollar  of  reward  he  went  to  the  nations  of  the  earth  and 
spent  four  years  of  his  life  proclaiming  the  gospel,  declaring  that  the 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Dag 

angel  that  was  seen  flying  through  the  midst  of  heaven  having  the  ever- 
lasting Gospel  to  preach  to  them  that  dwelt  on  the  earth  had  come,  and 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God  who  testified  of  this. 

"BrotherMcArthur  told  me  of  many  incidents  of  his  mission  that 
were  truly  remarkable.  Among  other  things,  he  said  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  visited  him  while  he  was  on  this  mission.  And  I  say  to  you  today 
that  .  .  .  thousands,  yes,  tens  of  thousands  of  men  and  women  will  stand 
up  and  testify,  as  Brother  McArthur  did  to  me,  that  God  our  Heavenly 
Father  has  blessed  them,  that  he  has  given  them  manifestations  of  his  ap- 
proval of  their  labors  which  have  been  inspired  by  the  Holy  Ghost ;  and 
they  will,  in  all  solemnity  and  without  any  excitement,  testify  to  you  that 
they  do  know  for  themselves  that  they  are  engaged  in  the  work  of  God  .  .  . 

"More  than  once  I  have  heard  President  Wilford  Woodruff  say,  in 
private  and  public,  that  he  has  listened  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  stat- 
ing to  them  the  fact  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  would  yet  come  to  the  val- 
leys of  the  Rocky  Mountains  and  become  a  great  and  a  prosperous  people. 
We  stand  today  as  a  living  evidence  to  the  world  of  the  divinity  of  the 
mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Why?  Because  our  very  pres- 
ence in  these  mountains  is  a  fulfilment  of  the  predictions  of  that  inspired 
man.  ...  I  stand  before  you  today  a  mere  boy,  and  yet  Joseph  Smith  was 
martyred  when  he  was  a  year  younger  than  I  am.  .  .  .  When  we  con- 
template what  he  did  ...  it  is  indeed  a  marvel  and  a  wonder.  In  speak- 
ing of  this  I  am  reminded  of  .  .  .  the  book,  Figures  of  the  Past,  written  by 
Tosiah  Quincy,  who  was  a  statesman  and  a  philanthropist.  In  it  was  the 
following  statement : 

It  is  by  no  means  improbable  that  some  future  textbook  for  the  use  of 
generations  yet  unborn  will  contain  a  question  something  like  this :  What 
historical  American  of  the  nineteenth  century  has  exerted  the  most  power- 
ful influence  upon  the  destinies  of  his  countrymen  ?  And  it  is  by  no  means 
impossible  that  the  answer  to  that  interrogatory  may  be  thus  written :  Joseph 
Smith,  the  Mormon  Prophet. 

"...  The  Latter-day  Saints  have  seen  scores  of  the  prophecies  that 
he  uttered  fulfilled  to  the  very  letter.  Everybody  that  came  into  his  pres- 
ence was  impressed  with  the  influence  and  spirit  which  he  manifested. 
Many  are  the  men  whom  I  have  met  that  have  ridiculed  the  late  Prophet 
Brigham  Young,  and  I  have  persuaded  such  men  to  go  with  me  to  meet 
him,  and  they  have  invariably  come  away  from  meeting  him  inspired  with 
a  reverence  for  the  man,  because  the  Spirit  of  God  surrounded  him  day 
by  day.  I  tell  you  that  it  is  by  the  inspiration  of  God,  and  not  by  the 
power  of  man,  that  Joseph  Smith,  that  Brigham  Young,  that  John  Taylor, 
that  Wilford  Woodruff  have  been  able  to  unite  the  hearts  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  and  to  establish  and  build  up  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Without  the  light  and  the  guidance  of  the  Spirit  of  God  the  work  of  God 
on  the  earth  could  not  succeed ;  it  would  crumble  and  go  to  pieces.  .  .  . 

"I  want  to  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  it  behooves  us,  having 
received  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged, 
so  to  order  our  lives  from  day  to  day  that  glory  shall  be  brought  to  the 
work  of  God  by  the  good  deeds  that  we  perform,  so  letting  our  light  shine 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


that  men,  seeing  our  good  deeds,  shall  glorify  God.  No  people  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth  have  been  blessed  as  have  the  Latter-day  Saints ;  no 
people  have  ever  had  the  many  manifestations  of  the  kindness  and  mercy 
and  long-suffering  of  God  that  have  been  bestowed  upon  us,  and  I  say  we, 
above  all  men  and  women  upon  the  earth  should  live  God-like  and  upright 
lives.  That  God  may  help  us  to  do  so,  is  my  prayer  and  my  desire.  . . ." 

This,  in  brief,  in  spirit  and  in  substance,  is  what  I  preached  to  my 
brother  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  in  this  tabernacle 
on  January  26,  1896.   I  was  then  thirty-nine  years  of  age! 

The  next  morning,  my  brother  came  into  my  office  and  said,  "Heber, 
I  was  at  a  meeting  yesterday  and  heard  you  preach." 

I  said,  "The  first  time  you  ever  heard  your  brother  preach,  I  guess  ?" 

"Oh,  no,"  he  said,  "I  have  heard  you  many  times.  I  generally  come 
in  late  and  go  into  the  gallery.  I  often  go  out  before  the  meeting  is  over. 
But  you  never  spoke  as  you  did  yesterday.  You  spoke  beyond  your 
natural  ability.  You  were  inspired  of  the  Lord."  These  were  the  identi- 
cal words  I  had  uttered  the  day  before,  in  my  prayer  to  the  Lord ! 

I  said  to  him,  "Are  you  still  praying  for  a  testimony  of  the  gospel  ?" 

He  said,  "Yes,  and  I  am  going  nearly  wild." 

I  asked,  "What  did  I  preach  about  yesterday?" 

He  replied,  "You  know  what  you  preached  about." 

I  said,  "Well,  you  tell  me." 

"You  preached  upon  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith." 

I  answered,  "And  I  was  inspired  beyond  my  natural  ability ;  and  I 
never  spoke  before  at  any  time  you  have  heard  me,  as  I  spoke  yesterday. 
Do  you  expect  the  Lord  to  get  a  club  and  knock  you  down  ?  What  more 
testimony  do  you  want  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  than  that  a  man 
speaks  beyond  his  natural  ability  and  under  the  inspiration  of  God,  when 
he  testifies  of  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  ?" 

The  next  Sabbath  he  applied  to  me  for  baptism. 

Enduring  to  the  End 

God  our  Heavenly  Father  has  promised  that  those  who  are  faithful 
to  the  end  shall  be  saved  in  his  kingdom.  It  fills  my  heart  with  unspeak- 
able joy  when  I  see  the  aged  veterans  stand  up  and  bear  their  testimonies 
to  the  truth  of  the  gospel.  ...  I  rejoice  also  when  I  see  the  youth  of  Israel 
in  the  line  of  duty,  the  sons  and  grandsons  of  those  who  have  labored 
energetically  for  the  advancement  of  this  kingdom.  It  fills  my  heart  with 
gratitude  and  thanksgiving  that  the  testimony  of  the  Holy  Ghost  does 
abide  in  the  sons  and  daughters  of  those  who  have  been  faithful  to  the 
cause  of  God. 

But  there  is  nothing  that  is  more  sorrowful,  nothing  that  brings 
greater  regret  to  my  heart,  than  to  see  the  sons  and  daughters  of  those 
who  have  been  faithful  turn  away  from  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  but  I  believe 
that  if  we  as'  Latter-day  Saints  will  arise  in  the  might  and  majesty  of 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Dag 

our  calling,  arise  in  the  testimony  of  Jesus  Christ  that  burns  in  our  hearts, 
and  do  our  duty  and  keep  the  commandments  of  God  our  Heavenly 
Father  as  we  should  keep  them,  and  set  examples  before  our  children  that 
are  worthy  of  imitation,  few  of  them  will  turn  away  from  the  path  of- 
right. 

Go  where  you  will  among  the  elders  of  Israel,  travel  from  one  end 
of  the  Church  to  the  other,  and  you  will  find  a  testimony  burning  in  the 
hearts  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  this  is  the  work  of  Almighty  God 
and  that  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  has  established  it.  You  find  this  testimony, 
you  hear  it  borne,  but  do  we  always  live  the  lives  of  Latter-day  Saints  ? 
Do  we  live  as  we  should  live,  considering  the  great  testimony  that  has 
been  given  unto  us  ?  Do  we  keep  His  commandments  as  we  ought  to  do  ? 
We  carry  upon  our  shoulders  the  reputation,  so  to  speak,  of  the  Church, 
every  one  of  us. 

When  I  look  around  and  realize  how  many  of  those  who  have  been 
wonderfully  blessed  of  the  Lord  have  fallen  by  the  wayside,  it  fills  me 
with  humility.  It  fills  me  with  the  spirit  of  meekness  and  with  an  earnest 
desire  that  I  may  ever  seek  to  know  the  mind  and  the  will  of  God  and  to 
keep  His  commandments  rather  than  to  follow  out  my  own  desires. 

The  Repentant  Sinner 

There  is  nothing  in  the  world  that  is  more  splendid  than  to  have  in 
our  hearts  a  desire  to  forgive  the  sinner  if  he  only  repents.  But  I  want 
to  say,  do  not  forgive  the  sinner  if  he  does  not  repent.  "By  this  ye  may 
know  if  a  man  repenteth  of  his  sins — behold  he  will  confess  them  and 
forsake  them."  It  is  up  to  the  Lord,  however,  and  unless  they  con- 
fess their  sins  we  are  not  obliged  to  forgive,  but  when  they  really  and 
truly  repent,  it  is  one  of  the  obligations  that  rest  upon  us  to  forgive  those 
who  have  sinned. 

The  devil  is  ready  to  blind  our  eyes  with  the  things  of  this  world, 
and  he  would  gladly  rob  us  of  eternal  life,  the  greatest  of  all  gifts.  But 
it  is  not  given  to  the  devil,  and  no  power  will  ever  be  given  to  him  to  over- 
throw any  Latter-day  Saint  that  is  keeping  the  commandments  of  God. 
There  is  no  power  given  to  the  adversary  of  men's  souls  to  destroy  us  if 
we  are  doing  our  duty.  If  we  are  not  absolutely  honest  with  God,  then 
we  let  the  bars  down,  then  we  have  destroyed  part  of  the  fortifications  by 
which  we  are  protected,  and  the  devil  may  come  in.  But  no  man  has  ever 
lost  the  testimony  of  the  Gospel,  no  man  has  ever  turned  to  the  right  or 
to  the  left,  who  had  the  knowledge  of  the  truth,  who  was  attending  to  his 
duties,  who  was  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  who  was  paying  his  tith- 
ing, who  was  responding  to  the  calls  and  duties  of  his  office  and  calling 
in  the  Church. 

There  are  some  who  are  forever  asking  to  know  what  the  Lord  wants 
of  them,  and  who  seem  to  be  hesitating  on  that  account.  I  am  thoroughly 
convinced  that  all  the  Lord  wants  of  you  and  me  or  of  any  other  man  or 
woman  in  the  Church  is  for  us  to  perform  our  full  duty  and  keep  the 
commandments  of  God.  • 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  11 


Pray  Always 

One  of  the  requirements  made  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  that  they 
shall  be  faithful  in  attending  to  their  prayers,  both  their  secret  and  family 
prayers.  The  object  that  our  Heavenly  Father  has  in  requiring  this  is 
that  we  may  be  in  communication  with  Him,  and  that  we  may  have  a 
channel  open  between  us  and  the  heavens  whereby  we  can  bring  down 
upon  ourselves  blessings  from  above.  No  individual  who  is  humble  and 
prayerful  before  God  and  supplicates  him  every  day  for  the  light  and  in- 
spiration of  his  Holy  Spirit  will  ever  become  lifted  up  in  the  pride  of  his 
heart,  or  feel  that  the  intelligence  and  the  wisdom  that  he  possesses  are 
allsufficient  for  him. 

Pray  always,  that  you  may  come  off  conqueror ;  yea,  that  you  may 
conquer  Satan,  and  that  you  may  escape  the  hands  of  the  servants  of  Satan 
that  do  uphold  his  work.    (D.  &  C.  10  :S.) 

Pray  always,  that  ye  may  not  faint,  until  I  come.    (D  &  C.  88:126.) 

Our  Young  Men  in  Service 

Between  forty-five  and  fifty  thousand  of  the  young  men  of  this 
Church  are  now  wearing  the  uniforms  of  their  respective  countries.  Some 
of  them  are  here  today,  and  thousands  of  them  are  scattered  on  far  fronts 
in  many  lands.  I  hope  and  pray  that  every  boy  will  feel  in  his  heart :  "I 
want  to  know  what  is  right  and  clean  and  pure  and  holy,  and  I  want  God 
to  help  me."  I  want  every  Latter-day  Saint  soldier  to  get  down  on  his 
knees  and  pray  God  to  help  him  to  lead  a  clean  life,  and  to  preach  the  Gos- 
pel wherever  he  is  by  the  way  he  lives.  There  are  no  sins  charged  to  our 
account  because  we  are  tempted,  provided  we  shall  resist  the  temptation. 
But  we  have  no  right  to  go  near  temptation,  or  in  fact  to  do  or  say  any- 
thing that  we  cannot  honestly  ask  the  blessing  of  the  Lord  upon ;  neither 
to  visit  any  place  where  we  would  be  ashamed  to  take  our  sister  or  sweet- 
heart. The  good  Spirit  will  not  go  with  us  onto  the  Devil's  ground,  and 
if  we  are  standing  alone  upon  ground  belonging  to  the  adversary  of  men's 
souls,  he  may  have  the  power  to  trip  us  and  destroy  us.  We  can't  handle 
dirty  things  and  keep  clean  hands.   Virtue  is  more  valuable  than  life. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  you,  our  young  men  in  the  armed  forces  of 
the  world,  that  our  Heavenly  Father  will  be  with  you  to  sustain  you  and 
to  increase  your  faith  day  by  day;  that  you  may  be  preserved  in  your 
trials,  your  hardships,  your  suffering,  with  strength  to  face  the  eventual- 
ities of  each  day  and  with  the  assurance  that  the  Lord,  your  God,  will 
bring  in  his  own  way  and  time  everlasting  compensation  to  you  for  your 
sacrifice,  as  you  walk  in  his  ways  and  live  lives  that  conform  with  the 
Priesthood  you  bear. 

I  pray  for  the  wives,  the  children,  the  mothers  and  fathers  of  these 
men  who  are  serving  their  countries  the  world  over,  that  they  may  be 
sustained  in  their  waiting,  that  their  anxious  fears  may  be  quieted,  that 
comfort  and  assurance  may  come  into  their  lives. 

I  pray  for  peace ;  for  wisdom,  reverence  and  humility  on  the  part  of 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  Pint  Day 

the  leaders  of  nations ;  for  repentance,  and  a  turning  to  the  ways  of  right- 
eousness on  the  part  of  all  men. 

I  pray  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  all  nations,  at  home  and  abroad, 
and  on  the  islands  of  the  sea ;  I  pray  that  they  may  have  the  strength  and 
the  faith  to  live  righteously,  and  I  extend  to  them  anew  the  hand  of  fel- 
lowship. 

I  pray  for  righteous  men  everywhere.  To  all  of  God's  children  who 
are  worthy  to  be  called  such,  I  send  my  blessings,  for  we  are  all  the  chil- 
dren of  our  Father  in  heaven,  and  heirs  to  his  blessings,  according  to  our 
faithfulness  and  obedience. 

I  pray  for  the  sorrowing,  for  the  bereaved,  for  the  oppressed  that 
they  shall  be  comforted. 

N  What  the  world  needs  today  more  than  anything  else  is  an  implicit 
faith  in  God,  our  Father,  and  in  Jesus  Christ,  His  Son,  as  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world.  The  message  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  to  the  world  is  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son,  and  that 
they  appeared  to  the  boy,  Joseph  Smith,  and  promised  him  that  he  should 
be  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  in  restoring  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  in  this  dispensation.  I  leave  this  testimony  as  a  witness  to  all  the 
world,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Him  whose  work  this  is,  even  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  have  just  heard  a  message  from  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  Pres- 
ident of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  read  by  Elder 
Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference. 

President  Grant:  The  people  are  rejoiced  in  the  admonition  you 
have  given  us,  in  the  testimony  you  have  again  borne  to  the  divinity  of 
this  Latter-day  work,  and  in  the  hope  and  faith  and  inspiration  you  have 
again  brought  to  them.  Their  constant  prayer  is  that  you  may  be  pre- 
served yet  many  years  to  guide  and  direct  the  Lord's  work  and  the  Lord's 
Church  on  earth. 

President  Clark :  President  David  O.  McKay  will  now  present  the 
General  Authorities  for  your  sustaining  vote.  We  suggest  that  all  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  listening  in,  participate  in  the  voting. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 
SUSTAINED 

President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, presented  for  the  vote  of  the  Conference  the  General  Authorities, 
General  Officers,  and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church,  and  they 
were  unanimously  sustained  by  those  present,  as  follows : 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED  13 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

First  Presidency 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
George  Albert  Smith 

Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

George  Albert  Smith  Charles  A.  Callis 

George  F.  Richards  Albert  E.  Bowen 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Harold  B.  Lee 

Stephen  L  Richards  Spencer  W.  Kimball 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Ezra  T.  Benson 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  Mark  E.  Petersen 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Joseph  F.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and 
the  Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Marion  G.  Romney  Alma  Sonne 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Clifford  E.  Young 

Nicholas  G.  Smith 

■     -  > 
Trustee-in-Trust 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  John  H.  Taylor 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Rufus  K.  Hardy 

Samuel  O.  Bennion  Richard  L.  Evans 

Oscar  A.  Kirkham 


I 


14  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Day 

Presiding  Bishopric 

LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop 
Marvin  O.  Ashton,  First  Counselor 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant. 

Church  Board  of  Education 

Heber  J.  Grant  John  A.  Widtsoe 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Adam  S.  Bennion 

David  O.  McKay  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Charles  A.  Callis 

Stephen  L  Richards  Franklin  L.  West 

Albert  E.  Bowen 
Frank  Evans,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

Commissioner  of  Education 
Franklin  L.  West 

Seminary  Supervisors 

M.  Lynn  Bennion 
J.  Karl  Wood 

Auditing  and  Finance  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Harold  H.  Bennett 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President;  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor; 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor. 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Wade  N.  Stephens,  Assistant 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED  15 


CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisers 


John  A.  Widtsoe 
Albert  E.  Bowen 
Harold  B.  Lee 
Marion  G.  Romney 
Thomas  E.  McKay 
Clifford  E.  Young 


Alma  Sonne 
Nicholas  G.  Smith 
Antoine  R.  Ivins 
John  H.  Taylor 
LeGrand  Richards 
Marvin  O.  Ashton 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 


General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 


General  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 

Robert  L.  Judd,  Vice-Chairman 

Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 


Mark  Austin 
Clyde  C.  Edmunds 
Sterling  H.  Nelson 
William  E.  Ryberg 


Stringham  A.  Stevens 
Howard  Barker 
Roscoe  W.  Eardley 
Ezra  C.  Knowlton 


GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


National  Woman's  Relief  Society 

Amy  Brown  Lyman,  President 
Marcia  K.  Howells,  First  Counselor 
Belle  S.  Spafford,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


Deseret  Sunday  School-Union 

Milton  Bennion,  General  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
A.  Hamer  Reiser,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

George  Q.  Morris,  General  Superintendent 
Joseph  J.  Cannon,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Burton  K.  Farnsworth,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  J  First  Dag 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  President 
Helen  Spencer  Williams,  First  Counselor 
Verna  W.  Goddard,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Primary  Association 

Adele  Cannon  Howells,  President 
LaVern  W.  Parmley,  First  Counselor 
Dessie  G.  Boyle,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

President  McKay :  I  should  like  to  announce  that  the  voting  in  all 
cases  was,  so  far  as  I  could  perceive,  unanimous  in  the  affirmative. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Come,  Let  Us  Anew" — From 
Wesley's  Collection  (L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  195). 


REPORT  OF  CHANGES,  OBITUARIES  AND  VITAL 
STATISTICS 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  read  the  follow- 
ing report  of  Changes,  Obituaries,  and  Vital  Statistics : 

New  M ission  Presidents : 

Hugh  B.  Brown  appointed  president  of  the  British  Mission  to 
succeed  Andre  K.  Anastasiou  as  acting  president. 

Octave  Willis  Ursenbach  appointed  president  of  the  Canadian  Mis- 
sion to  fill  the  vacancy  occasioned  by  the  death  of  President  Joseph 
Quinney,  Jr. 

William  L.  Killpack  appointed  to  succeed  George  F.  Richards,  Jr., 
as  president  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission.  v 

Castle  H.  Murphy  appointed  to  succeed  Eldred  L.  Waldron  as  pres- 
ident of  the  Hawaiian  Mission. 

June  B-  Sharp  appointed  to  succeed  Richard  E.  Folland  as  presi- 
dent of  the  South  African  Mission. 

New  Temple  Presidents : 

Harry  L.  Payne  appointed  to  succeed  Charles  V.  Pugh  as  president 
of  the  Arizona  Temple. 

•  Stake  Presidents  Chosen : 

Ernest  A.  Strong,  president  of  the  Kolob  Stake  succeeding  J.  Em- 
mett  Bird, 


REPORT  OF  CHANGES 


17 


Virgil  H.  Smith,  president  of  the  Liberty  Stake  succeeding  J.  Percy 
Goddard,  who  was  made  president  of  the  new  Park  Stake. 

Leon  H.  Swenson,  president  of  the  Nampa  Stake  succeeding  Peter 
E.  Johnson. 

Claude  B.  Petersen,  president  of  the  San  Francisco  Stake  succeed- 
ing Howard  S.  McDonald. 

William  Arthur  Budge,  president  of  the  new  Ben  Lomond  Stake. 

William  P.  Whitaker,  president  of  the  Pocatello  Stake  succeeding 
Henry  W.  Henderson. 

Merle  G.  Hyer,  president  of  the  Benson  Stake  succeeding  H.  Ray 
Pond. 

Eldon  G.  Luke,  president  of  the  Emery  Stake  succeeding  J.  Frank 
Killian. 

Paul  E.  Wrathall,  president  of  the  new  Grantsville  Stake. 
W.  J.  O'Bryant,  president  of  the  Palmyra  Stake  succeeding  Henry 
A.  Gardner. 

Edgar  B.  Brossard,  president  of  the  Washington  Stake  succeeding 
Ezra  T.  Benson. 

Carl  A.  Patten,  president  of  the  Santaquin-Tintic  Stake  succeeding 
Carl  D.  Greenhalgh. 

Ephraim  Stanley  Miller,  president  of  the  Raft  River  Stake  suc- 
ceeding John  A.  Elison. 

New  Stakes  Organized : 

Park  Stake  organized  October  24,  1943  by  a  division  of  the  Liberty 
Stake  and  consists  of  the  First,  Tenth,  Thirty-first  Wards  of  the  Liberty 
Stake  and  the  LeGrand  Ward  and  the  west  half  of  the  Emigration  Ward 
of  the  Bonneville  Stake. 

Ben  Lomond  Stake  organized  November  21,  1943  by  a  division  of 
the  Ogden  Stake  and  consists  of  the  North  Ogden,  Ogden  Seventh, 
Eighth,  Twenty-first,  Twenty-ninth,  Pleasant  View  and  Lorin  Farr 
Wards. 

Grantsville  Stake  organized  January  16,  1944  by  a  division  of  the 
Tooele  Stake  and  consists  of  the  Erda,  Clover,  Grantsville  First  and  Sec- 
ond, Lake  Point,  and  St.  John  Wards  and  the  Wendover  Branch. 

New  Wards  Organized: 

Brentwood  Ward,  Inglewood  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
Mar  Vista  and  Santa  Monica  Wards. 

Springville  Fifth  and  Sixth  Wards,  Kolob  Stake,  formed  by  a  divis- 
ion of  the  Springville  First  and  Fourth  Wards. 

Douglas  Ward,  Bonneville  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the  Emi- 
gration and  Thirty-third  Wards. 

Ward  Divided : 

Jerome  Ward,  Blaine  Stake  divided  to  form  Jerome  First  and  Je- 
rome Second  Wards. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Pirst  Day 


Independent  Branches  Made  Wards : 

Hiawatha  Ward,  Carbon  Stake,  formerly  Hiawatha  Branch. 

Downey  Ward,  South  Los  Angeles  Stake,  formerly  Downey 
Branch. 

Ward  Name  Changed : 

Batesville  Ward,  Grantsville  Stake,  name  changed  to  Erda  Ward. 

Independent  Branches  Organized: 
Abraham  Branch,  Deseret  Stake 
Callao  Branch,  Nevada  Stake 
Lajolla  Branch,  San  Diego  Stake 
Deseret  Branch,  Tooele  Stake 
Dragerton  Branch,  Carbon  Stake 
Adrian  Branch,  Weiser  Stake 
Tod  Park  Branch,  Tooele  Stake 

Independent  Branches  Discontinued : 
Rolapp  Branch,  Carbon  Stake 
Mercur  Branch,  Tooele  Stake 
Pegram  Branch,  Montpelier  Stake 
Richvale  Branch,  Teton  Stake 

Branch  Transferred  from  Mission  to  Stake : 

Allison  Branch,  Young  Stake,  formerly  of  the  Western  States  Mis- 
sion. 

Those  Who  Have  Passed  Away : 

May  Booth  Talmage,  widow  of  the  late  James  E.  Talmage  of  the 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


Number  of  Stakes  of  Zion — as  of  April  1,  1944......   147 


Statistics 


Number  of  Wards  

Number  of  Independent  Branches 


..1,137 
..  124 


Total  Wards  and  Independent  Branches 
Number  of  Missions  


1,261 
40 


Church  Membership : 


Stakes 


774,161 
162,889 
937,050 


Missions 


Total 


Church  Growth: 

Children  blessed  in  the  stakes  and  missions  ... 
Children  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions ... 
Converts  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions 


26,361 
.  14,485 
6772 


\ 


FINANCIAL  REPORT  19 

Social  Statistics' : 

Birth  rate  per  thousand    38.1 

Marriage  rate  per  thousand    14.6 

Death  rate  per  thousand   5.7 

Missionaries : 

Number  of  missionaries  in  the  missions  of  the 

Church    852 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  stakes  2,473 

Total  missionaries    3,325 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  in 

the  mission  home  during  1943    204 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

I  will  now  read  the  Financial  Statement  of  the  Church. 

As  you  have  already  been  advised,  the  Church,  for  several  years, 
has  had  a  budget  and  makes  its  general  appropriations  in  fourteen  differ- 
ent items.  The  budgets  are  prepared  and  submitted  to  and  approved  by 
the  Council  on  the  Distribution  of  the  Tithes.  That  council  is  composed 
of  the  First  Presidency,  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve,  and  the  Presiding 
Bishopric.  The  appropriations  are  handled  and  the  individual  appropria- 
tions and  individual  projects  approved  by  a  committee  of  that  body,  con- 
sisting of  the  First  Presidency,  a  committee  from  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve,  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

Church  Disbursements,  1943 

Part  I— CHURCH  BUDGET  CASH  EXPENDITURES  FROM  GENERAL 
CHURCH  FUNDS,  BOTH  TITHING  AND  NON-TITHING 

Total  cash  budget  appropriation  for  1943   .$5,064,340.00 

Budget  appropriations  and  expenditures  were  made  as  follows: 

P  S3  — 

III 

*  s 

«  T3< 
S\  >5 

T-lP  O 

Office  of  the  Corporation  of  the  President  f 
Including  salaries  of  79  employees 
overhead  expenses  of  offices,  equipment, 
maintenance  of  the  Administration 
Building,  and  the  living  allowances 
and  traveling  expenses  of  the  General 
Authorities,  all  covered  by  non-tithing 

income    $  298,200.00  $  272,783.00  $  25,417.00 


1 

(A 
V 

u 

Iget 
jroprial 
1943 

3 

-•■63 
It? 

20  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Dag 


Office  of  the  Corporation  of  the  Presiding 
Bishop : 

Including  the  salaries  of  165  employees, 
office  expenses  and  equipment,  also  in- 
cluding expenses  of  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood program,  traveling  expenses  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric,  property  taxes 
special   printing,   and  maintenance  of 

the  Motor  Avenue  supply  storehouse  ....       128,050.00      145,402.00  17,352.00 

(deficit) 

Temples : 

For  the  operating  expenses,  including 
all  overhead  expenses  for  180  employees, 
and  building  maintenance,  repairs,  reno- 
vation, and  landscaping  of  the  Alberta, 
Arizona,  Hawaiian,  Idaho  Falls,  Logan, 
Manti,   Saint  George,  and  Salt  Lake 


Missions  and  Missionary  Work : 
For  the  maintenance  and  operating  ex- 
pense of  the  twenty  missions  in  the 
United  States,  Canada,  Mexico,  Hawai- 
ian Islands,  and  South  America;  living 
and  traveling  expenses  of  the  mission 
presidents,  return  fares  of  missionaries ; 
free  literature ;  servicemen's  welfare ;  the 
erection,  remodeling,  maintenance  and 
renting  of  buildings;  and  the  expenses 
of  the  Bureaus  of  Information  in  Salt 
Lake  City,  Washington,  D.C.,  Carthage 
Jail  (Illinois),  Cumorah  (Palmyra), 
and  Joseph  Smith  Farm  (South  Royal- 
ton,  Vermont),  and  the  mission  home  in 


Ward  and  Stake  Maintenance  Expenses: 
For  the  maintenance  of  1,269  ward  and 
146  stake  buildings,  expenses  and  mile- 
age allowance  to  bishops  and  stake 
presidents ;  furnishings  for  ward  &nd 
stake  offices ;  stake  and  ward  taxes ;  and 

stake  and  ward  printing    960,600.00      965,424.00  4,824.00 


Temples 


225,000.00  272,197.00 


47,197.00 
(deficit) 


Salt  Lake  City 


888,200.00     598,299.00  289,901.00 


Church  Welfare: 


(deficit) 


Assistance  to  the  needy  consisting  of 
food,  clothing,  rents,  light,  heat,  557 
medical  welfare  cases;  burials;  other 


FINANCIAL  REPORT 


21 


ward  welfare  assistance;  workmen's 
compensation  insurance  on  welfare  proj- 
ects and  for  carrying  out  the  estab- 
lished program  of  the  general  welfare 
committee.  This  sum  accounts  for  bud- 
get expenditures  only,  total  welfare  ex- 


Church  Schools : 
For  the  operating  expenses  of  Brigham 
Young  University,  Ricks  College,  and 
Juarez  Stake  Academy,  and  of  13  insti- 
tutes and  99  seminaries ;  for  the  operat- 
ing expenses  of  the  Department  of 
Education,  including  the  salaries  of  9 
office  employees,  and  for  repairs  and 

improvements  to  47  buildings    831,155.00      818,562.00  12,593.00 

Educational  Institutions  (other  than 
Church  Schools,  Institutes,  and  semi- 
naries) : 

McCune  School  of  Music  and  Art :  Lund 
Home  for  Boys ;  Deseret  Gymnasium ; 
Society  for  the  Aid  of  the  Sightless; 

and  the  General  Music  Committee    31,720.00        19,536.00  12,184.00 

Building  Operations : 
For  the  maintenance  of  the  buildings 
and  grounds,  Temple  Block,  except  the 
Temple;  for  the  maintenance  of  the 
Bishop's  Building  and  other  Church 
properties  situated  immediately  adjacent 
to  the  Temple  Block;  for  repairs  and 
improvements  on  321  ward  buildings ; 
for  the  salaries  and  traveling  expenses 
of  employees  of  the  Church  Building  De- 
partment; and  $112,514.00  for  the  con- 
struction of  hospitals  buildings    943,800.00      881,610.00  62,190.00 

Historic  Monuments  and  Properties : 
For   the    repair   and   maintenance  of 
properties  at  Palmyra,  New  York ;  South 
Royalton,  Vermont ;  the  Carthage  Jail ; 


penditures  to  follow  in  detail 


365,453.00 


125,833.00  239,620.00 


and  Memorial  Cemeteries 


16,864.00 


12,485.00 


4,379.00 


Indian  Projects : 


In  the  Papago  and  Washakie  Wards. 
There  is  to  be  credited  against  this 
amount  the  returns  from  the  1943  crops 


8,000.00 


10,670.00 


2,670.00 
(deficit) 


22 

Thursday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Dag 


3  X  J? 


<^  oj  — 
H  o  5 
2  x.2 


g.S 
xS 


„  P. 


Church  Committee  on  Radio  and  Pub- 
licity : 

For  publicity  and  mission  literature   25,283.00         7,960.00  17,323.00 

Genealogical  Society  of  Utah  and  Index 
Bureau : 

To  assist  with  the  operating  expenses 
of  this  organization,  including  the  sal- 
aries of  121  employees   118,555.00      138,410.00  19,855.00 

(deficit) 

Other  Expenses: 
Consisting  of  contributions  to  civic  or 
ganizations  such  as  the  Red  Cross, 
Community  Chest,  etc. ;  salaries  of  Tab- 
ernacle Choir  conductors  and  organists; 
legal  expenses ;  contributions  to  hospi- 
tals, welfare  assistance  by  the  Gen- 
eral Church  Office;  public  liability  and 

other  insurance,  etc   223,460.00      121,479.00  101,981.00 

$5,064,340.00  $4,390,650.00  $673,690.00 

All  unexpended  balances  are  covered  back  into  the  unappropriated  funds  of 
the  Church.  Appropriated  for  the  foregoing  purposes  for  the  year  1944,  $5,326,- 
239.00. 


Part  II— CHURCH  NON-BUDGET  CASH  EXPENDITURES,  1943,  FROM 
CONTRIBUTIONS,  OTHER  THAN  TITHING  COLLECTED  FROM 
THE  CHURCH  MEMBERSHIP 

The  expenditures  budgeted  from  general  Church  funds  are  detailed  above. 
The  following  expenditures  were  made  from  further  contributions  made  by  mem- 


bers of  the  wards,  stakes,  and  missions  of  the  Church : 

Toward  the  erection  of  new  ward  and  stake  buidings  and  the 
remodeling  of  existing  ones    $  637,928.00 

Budget  payments  and  other  contributions  by  wards  and  branches 
for  maintenance  purposes,  as  also  for  expenses  of  the  ward  and 

branch  auxiliary  organizations  and  for  recreation    1,342,022.00 

Ward  and  Mission  fast  offerings,  Welfare  contributions,  and  ward 

assistance  to  missionaries    723,322.00 

Expended  from  General  Board  dues  and  children's  contributions  to 

Primary  Hospital    81,605.00 

Expended  by  the  General  Welfare  Committee    74,670.00 

Additional  income,  derived  by  the  Church  schools  from  tuition  fees 

and  other  sources    291,915.00 


FINANCIAL  REPORT 


23 


Disbursements  by  the  Relief  Society  for  direct  assistance  and  for 

General  Welfare  purposes  and  health  work    95,425.00 

Total  non-budget  cash  expenditures,  1943,  from  contributions 

other  than  tithing,  collected  from  the  Church  membership....  3,246,887.00 

Expended  by  the  hospitals  for  the  care  of  the  sick  in  addition 

to  the  amount  included  in  Part  I  from  tithes    34,532.00 

Total  budget  cash  expenditure  by  General  Church  Offices 

brought  forward  from  preceding  page   4,390,650.00 

Total  cash  expenditures,  budget  and  non-budget  of  entire 
Church    $  7,672,069.00 


Part  III— THE  CHURCH  WELFARE  PROGRAM 

A.  Fast  Offering  Data : 

Number  of  Church  members  who  paid  voluntary  fast  offerings  and  welfare 
•  _  contributions: 

In  the  Wards   149,820 

In  the  Missions    23,190 

Total    173,010 

Per  cent  of  Church  membership  who  paid  fast  offerings....24% 

Average  fast  offerings  per  capita  in  wards   75.7c 

Average  fast  offerings  per  capita  in  missions    37c 

Average  fast  offerings  per  capita— stakes  and  missions....69.9c 

B.  Welfare  Program  Cash  Expenditures: 

Amount  of  voluntary  fast  offerings  and  welfare  contributions : 

In  the  Wards : 

Fast  Offerings   $463,935.00 

Welfare  Contributions    186,098.00 

In  the  Missions : 

Fast  Offerings    39,931.00 



Total  (included  in  non-budget 

cash  expenditures)   $689,964.00 

Disbursed  by  the  Relief  Society  for  direct  assistance  and  for 

general  Welfare  purposes  and  health  work    $  95,425.00 

Disbursed  by  the  General  Welfare  Committee  for  direct  assist- 
ance and  for  General  Welfare  purposes    74,670.00 

Disbursed  by  the  Office  of  General  Authorities  for  direct  assist- 
ance (included  in  non-budget  cash  expenditures)    19,977.00 

Expended  from  the  tithes  for  general  and  local  Welfare  purposes  6,816.00 

Expended  by  the  hospitals  for  the  care  of  the  sick  in  addition  to 

the  amount  included  in  the  disbursements  from  the  tithes   34,532.00 

Total  Relief  Cash  Expenditures  for  the  year  (all  included 
above  in  grand  total  of  budget  and  non-budget  cash  expendi- 
ture)   $921,384.00 

In  addition  to  the  foregoing  cash  expenditures  of  $921,384.00  for  welfare 
purposes,  the  General  Church  Welfare  Committee  makes  the  following  further 
financial  report  with  the  statement  indicating  the  production  and  distribution 
of  commodities  for  Bishops'  Storehouses  in  1943,  inventory  of  commodities, 
December  31,  1943 : 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Day 

C.  Summary  of  the  Church  Welfare  Program  Financial  Report : 
The  Present  Net  Cash  Value  of  the  Program  is : 

Current  Assets  (net)    $  326,372.57 

Inventories  (principally  commodities)    606,470.33 

Fixed  Assets  (land,  buildings,  etc.)    1,343,347.12 


Total    $2,276,190.02 

The  Fixed  Assets  Consist  of : 

Deseret  Industries ;  Deseret  Mills  and  Elevators ;  Welfare  Square  buildings, 
elevators,  canneries,  milk  processing  plants,  root  cellar,  etc. ;  Deseret  Clothing 
Factory;  Emery  Coal  Mine;  and  the  housing  and  other  projects.  Ninety 
Bishops'  Storehouses  which  have  a  total  floor  area  of  230,000  square  feet,  and 
include  in  connection  therewith,  sixty-five  canneries.  Farms,  ranches,  dairies, 
and  other  regional  and  stake  properties  made  up  of  3,033  acres  of  land  to- 
gether with  buildings,  improvements,  and  livestock. 


The  Fixed  Assets  Were  Required  by 
Cash    from  General 
Committee    s  u  p- 
plied     out  of 

Church  funds   

Cash    from  Church 
Units 


$ 


Donations,  Labor  and 
Property 


417,057.01 
668,693.88 
268,496.23 


The  Fixed  Assets  Consist  of: 

Land    $  312,357.14 

Buildings    808,583.24 

Equipment    160,340.61 

Furniture  and  Fix- 
tures   38,392.13 

Livestock    23,674.00 


Total    $1,343,347.12 

D.  Production,  Distribution,  and  Inventory 


Total   $1,343,347.12 

of  Bishop's  Storehouse  Commodities: 


i-i 

c 

Items 

Unit 

1943 

Productioi 

1943 

Distributk 

Inventory 
December 
31,  1943 

Canned  Produce,  Milk,  Vegetables, 

Fruits,  Jams  and  spreads  quarts 

Animal  Products  (Butter,  Eggs,  and 

Meats)   pounds 

Vegetables,   Fruits,    Sugar,  Grains, 

and  Grain  Products  pounds 

Other  Foods  (49  different  items)  pounds 

Various  Drugs  and  Household  Sup- 
plies   items 

Hay,  Cotton,  Seeds  (Grains)   pounds 

Fuel  (mostly  coal)   tons 

Clothing  and  Dry  Goods  (247  differ- 
ent items)   articles 


1,240,000 
116,500 


189,100 
200,000 


5,070,000  1,120,000 
9,400  52,500 


1,659,000 

165,000 

2,290,000 
27,500 


54,000  3,678  12,400 

301,000    3,600,000 

340  2,600  1,900 

8,015  54,840  67,485 


E.  Activities  of  the  Program  During  1943,  in  Canning  and  Processing  for  Store- 
house Program : 

Vegetables,  Fruits,  Jams  and  Spreads   838,000  quarts  (1,300,000  cans) 

Meat,  Fish,  and  Fowl    30,800  pounds  (     33,800  cans) 

Milk,  canned  (each  can  equivalent  to  one 

quart  of  fresh  milk)    225,000  cans  (  225,000  cans) 

Miscellaneous  Foods  (Spices,  Flavor- 
ings, ets.)    4,000  pounds 

Flour  and  Cereals   320,000  pounds 


FINANCIAL  REPORT  25 

- 

F.  Canning  Done  by  Individual  Groups  Using  Welfare  Canneries: 

Fruits  and  Vegetables   3,832,000  quarts    (7,227,200  cans) 

Meat  and  Fish    27,300  pounds  (     22,800  cans) 

Total  Cans   8,808,800 

G.  Wheat  Storage : 

Bushels  of  wheat  stored  in  Church-owned  bins  as  of  April,  1944 : 

Relief  Society  owned  387,151 

Welfare  Program  owned   8,302 

395,453 

Estimated  value  $553,634.00  @  $1.40  per  bushel 

This  wheat  would  furnish  bread  for  66,000  people  for  one  year.  The  Program 
is  prepared  to  process  this  wheat  through  its  own  mills,  the  Deseret  Flour 
Mills,  formerly  the  Kaysville  Flour  Mills. 

H.  Field  Activities : 

To  produce  the  Welfare  Budget,  there  were  1,015  crop  projects,  669  livestock 
projects,  and  55  manufacturing  projects  carried  on  during  the  year  1943.  The 
crop  projects  utilized  3,089  acres  of  land.  The  livestock  projects  produced 
2,649  head  of  livestock,  12,200  chickens  and  rabbits,  and  204  stands  of  bees. 

In  addition  to  the  foregoing,  there  were  582  crop  projects,  221  livestock 
projects,  and  34  manufacturing  projects  operated  during  1943  for  purposes  other 
than  operation  of  the  Bishops'  Storehouses.  These  projects  utilized  2,100 
acres  of  land  and  produced  1,010  head  of  livestock  and  2,740  chickens  and 
rabbits. 

I.  Assistance  Rendered : 

During  1943  assistance  was  extended  to  17,913  persons  by  the  Welfare 
Program.  Since  the  Welfare  Program  was  set  up  in  1936,  a  total  of  291,142 
persons  received  assistance.  Since  the  beginning  of  the  Welfare  Program,  more 
than  750  families  have  been  rehabilitated  and  are  now  self-supporting. 

Assistance  Rendered  in  Construction  Projects 
There  have  been  1,475  construction  projects  completed  in  addition  to  the 
construction  for  the  bishops'  storehouse  program. 

REPORT  OF  THE  CHURCH  AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  read  the  following  report  of  the  Church 
Auditing  Committee: 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
March  31,  1944 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  and  Counselors 
47  East  South  Temple  Street 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Dear  Brethren : 

The  review  of  the  1943  annual  financial  report  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  by  your  committee  discloses  that  the 
Church  is  in  the  strongest  financial  position  in  all  its  history. 

The  Church  is  not  in  debt.  There  are  no  mortgages  on  any  of  its 
properties.    The  sustained  authorities  are  administering  prudently  the 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Dag 

sacred  funds  entrusted  to  them  by  the  tens  of  thousands  of  devoted  mem- 
bers, most  of  whom  are  of  small  means. 

Respectfully  Submitted, 

Orval  W.  Adams, 
Albert  E.  Bowen 
Geo.  S.  Spencer, 
Harold  H.  Bennett, 

Church  Finance  and 
Auditing  Committee 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  am  just  trying  to  collect  my  thoughts,  after  listening  to  that  re- 
markable report  of  the  financial  condition  of  the  Church.  I  am  some- 
what amused,  too,  because  only  a  few  days  ago  one  of  our  citizens  here 
in  Salt  Lake  City  told  a  friend  of  his  in  confidence  that  the  Church  was 
tremendously  in  debt. 

Gratitude  for  Blessings 

I  am  grateful  to  our  Heavenly  Father  this  morning  for  the  privilege 
of  being  here  in  this  opening  session  of  our  general  conference.  I  have 
been  inspired  by  the  opportunity  I  have  had  of  shaking  hands  with  many 
of  my  brethren.  It  is  always  a  joy  to  me  to  see  you  come  here,  from  all 
parts  of  the  Church,  to  wait  upon  the  Lord,  and  to  participate  in  the 
activities  of  the  conferences  that  are  held  from  time  to  time. 

As  I  look  into  your  faces  today,  I  realize  that  here  is  a  very  fine 
cross-section  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I 
don't  know  where  anybody  could  go  in  the  world  to  witness  a  finer  group 
of  men  in  worship  than  we  have  here  today.  , 

I  am  grateful  that  President  Grant  was  able  to  be  with  us.  It  is  a 
marvel  to  me  how  his  life  has  been  preserved.  Three  times,  to  my  knowl- 
edge, his  life  has  been  despaired  of  by  those  who  are  close  to  him,  and  he 
has  been  healed  by  the  power  of  the  Lord.  Today  is  an  evidence  of  what 
can  come  to  an  individual  who  lives  a  righteous  life.  He  has  always  been 
active  and  a  hard  worker,  and  yet  today,  at  eighty-seven  years  of  age,  he 
comes  to  us  to  enjoy  part  of  conference,  though  his  limited  strength  re- 
quires that  he  return  to  his  home  and  rest  before  he  can  come  back  again. 

I  trust  that  I  may  have  the  benefit  of  your  faith  and  prayers,  that  I 
may  be  led  to  say  something  that  will  be  helpful,  something  that  may 
cause  us  to  feel  that  it  is  a  privilege  to  be  identified  with  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  When  we  realize  the  situation  that 
people  of  the  world  are  confronting  everywhere,  when  we  pause  long 
enough  to  consider  that  the  world  is  in  a  critical  condition,  that  the  de- 
struction of  life  and  property  goes  on  and  increases  as  the  days  go  by,  we 
may  be  grateful  that  we  have  benefited  by  those  who  were  our  forebears, 


GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


27 


who  heard  the  cry  to  "Come  out  of  her,  O,  my  people,  that  ye  partake  not 
of  her  sins,  and  that  ye  receive  not  of  her  plagues." 

When  I  realize  that  our  people  were  gathered  from  a  prosperous, 
fine  section  of  the  world,  in  most  cases,  and  were  transplanted  by  the 
power  of  God,  and  no  other  power,  to  live  in  these  mountain  vales  at  a 
time  when  they  were  considered  unfit  for  the  habitation  of  civilized  man, 
and  then  see  what  the  Lord  has  done  for  us,  I  marvel. 

It  has  been  my  privilege  to  travel  in  many  parts  of  the  world ;  it  has 
been  a  great  joy  to  me  to  mingle  with  men  and  women  in  many  nations, 
fine,  wonderful  characters,  all  sons  and  daughters  of  our  Heavenly 
Father,  but  when  I  come  back  to  the  valleys  of  the  mountains,  and  par- 
take of  the  influences  that  I  find  here,  my  heart  swells  with  gratitude 
that  my  membership  is  in  this  Church  that  bears  the  name  of  the  Redeem- 
er of  mankind,  so  named  by  him. 

The  Earth  Prepared  to  Make  Men  Happy 

It  would  seem,  as  you  look  over  the  conditions  in  the  world,  that 
men  generally  have  lost  all  understanding  of  the  purpose  of  life.  A  great 
majority  of  the  people  of  the  world  do  not  know  why  we  are  here ;  but 
the  Lord  in  the  beginning,  starting  with  our  first  parents  who  were  placed 
upon  the  earth,  began  teaching  His  children  the  purpose  of  life,  and  gave 
to  them  rules  of  conduct,  which,  if  observed,  would  have  enriched  their 
lives,  brought  happiness  in  mortality,  and  enjoyment  of  eternal  life  in 
the  celestial  kingdom. 

When  the  Lord  began  the  peopling  of  this  earth — and  he  prepared 
it  for  the  people  who  live  upon  it — he  provided  everything  that  is  neces- 
sary to  make  us  happy.  You  cannot  think  of  anything  that  we  need 
that  is  not  provided.  As  the  years,  the  centuries,  have  passed,  there  have 
been  uncovered  new  opportunities  for  development,  refinement,  culture, 
and  happiness  in  almost  every  part  of  the  world. 

When  the  children  of  Israel  were  coming  out  of  bondage,  where  they 
had  been  taken  in  order  that  a  great  and  wonderful  work  might  be  per- 
formed, they  came  out  to  the  Promised  Land,  and  on  the  way  the  Lord 
talked,  face  to  face,  to  Moses,  who  was  their  leader,  and  gave  to  him  a 
marvelous  rule  of  conduct,  the  Ten  Commandments. 

I  should  like  to  read  just  a  part  of  those  commandments,  at  least,  and 
call  attention  to  the  fact,  that  from  the  beginning  of  time,  so  far  as  this 
earth  was  concerned,  when  it  was  populated,  our  Heavenly  Father  has 
been  advising  his  children  what  to  do,  in  order  that  they  might  be  happy. 
He  has  never  counseled  them  to  do  anything  that  would  make  them  un- 
happy. He  has  offered  a  premium  of  eternal  happiness  to  those  who  will 
live  in  mortality  according  to  His  advice  and  counsel. 

When  the  children  of  Israel  were  in  the  wilderness,  they  disobeyed 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  It  was  not  very  long  until  they  were 
doing  things  that  displeased  Him.  Notwithstanding,  they  were  led  all 
day  by  a  pillar  of  cloud,  and  at  night  their  whereabouts  was  indicated  by 
a  pillar  of  fire.  A  cloud  by  day,  and  a  pillar  of  fire  by  night !   And  they 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

were  fed  manna,  or  "angel  food,"  to  preserve  them  while  they  traveled 
through  the  wilderness. 

Commandments  Given  for  the  Good  of  Mankind 

While  they  were  there,  in  order  that  there  could  be  no  mistake  on 
their  part  as  to  what  would  make  them  happy,  the  Lord  gave  to  them  these 
commandments.  I  want  to  emphasize  that ;  I  want  to  say  that  the  only 
way  of  happiness  is  the  pathway  of  righteousness.  There  is  no  other  way. 
We  refer  to  them  as  commandments,  though  I  have  always  looked  upon 
them  as  the  loving  advice  of  a  kind  Heavenly  Father  who,  knowing  all 
things,  has  pointed  the  way,  that  his  children  might  be  happy. 

Now,  he  says : 

Thou  shalt  not  take  the  name  of  the  Lord  thy  God  in  vain ;  for  the  Lord 
will  not  hold  him  guiltless  that  taketh  his  name  in  vain. 

I  hope  the  membership  of  this  Church  realize  that  profanity  in  the 
sight  of  our  Heavenly  Father  is  displeasing,  and  that  there  follows  a  loss 
of  blessings  whenever  we  fail  to  measure  up  in  the  way  that  he  indicates 
we  should. 

Again,  let  us  read. 

Remember  the  sabbath  day,  to  keep  it  holy.  Six  days  shalt  thou  labor, 
and  do  all  thy  work :  But  the  seventh  day  is  the  sabbath  of  the  Lord  thy 
God :  in  it  thou  shalt  not  do  any  work,  thou,  nor  thy  son,  nor  thy  daughter, 
thy  manservant,  nor  thy  maidservant,  nor  thy  cattle,  nor  thy  stranger  that 
is  within  thy  gates :  For  in  six  days  the  Lord  made  heaven  and  earth,  the 
sea,  and  all  that  in  them  is,  and  rested  the  seventh  day :  wherefore  the  Lord 
blessed  the  sabbath  day,  and  hallowed  it. 

Now,  that  is  the  advice  of  your  Father  and  mine.  That  is  the  advice 
of  the  Father  of  our  spirits,  given  to  our  forebears  thousands  of  years 
ago,  given  with  the  expectation  that  they  would  listen,  at  least  many  of 
them,  to  his  wise  counsel ;  and  if  they  had  observed  to  keep  that  command- 
ment, to  honor  the  Sabbath  day  and  keep  it  holy  all  through  the  ages, 
there  would  be  an  entirely  different  condition  in  the  world  today. 

There  was  no  happiness  worthy  of  that  name  which  resulted  from 
violating  the  Sabbath  day,  in  the  time  of  Moses,  and  I  want  to  say  to  you 
there  is  no  happiness  for  us  now,  when  we  violate  the  Sabbath  day. 

Honour  thy  father  and  thy  mother :  that  thy  days  may  be  long  upon  the 
land  which  the  Lord  thy  God  giveth  thee. 

"Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother — "  you  men  here,  most  of  you, 
are  fathers,  and  you  know  what  it  means  to  have  a  child  respect  you  and 
honor  you  in  your  place  as  head  of  the  household.  Our  Heavenly  Father 
is  just  as  pleased  with  us  when  we  honor  him. 

"Thou  shalt  not  kill."  Think  of  the  distress  that  is  in  the  world  to- 
day as  a  result  of  the  violation  of  that  advice  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 
Millions  of  people  are  being  involved,  and  many  millions  more  are  made 
to  suffer  as  the  result  of  the  destruction  of  human  life  in  violation  of  the 
commandment,  "Thou  shalt  not  kill." 


GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


29 


"Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery."  One  of  the  greatest  distresses 
in  all  the  world  today  is  the  disease  that  afflicts  the  human  family  as  a 
result  of  immorality.  There  isn't  anything  that  will  destroy  a  man's  self- 
respect  like  abusing  himself  and  defiling  his  body  by  becoming  immoral. 
Our  Heavenly  Father  did  not  place  us  in  a  position  where  we  could  not 
help  ourselves.  He  gave  us  our  agency  in  all  things,  and  for  the  observ- 
ing of  His  counsel  He  gave  to  us  a  promise,  and  that  promise  was  hap- 
piness. 

"Thou  shalt  not  steal."  Just  think  of  the  theft,  the  dishonesty,  that 
is  in  the  world  today — taking  that  which  belongs  to  a  neighbor  without 
his  permission.  We  understand  that  in  the  United  States  alone  there  are 
organized  bands  of  marauders  and  thieves  that  number  hundreds  of 
thousands,  feeling  that  they  can  do  just  as  they  please.  The  remarkable 
thing  is  that  the  man  who  steals  never  receives  any  happiness  as  a  result 
of  his  theft.  He  loses  his  own  self-respect,  he  loses  the  respect  of  his 
neighbors,  and  brings  upon  himself  the  displeasure  of  our  Heavenly 
Father,  who  makes  it  possible  for  all  of  us  to  live  without  stealing,  if 
we  will. 

Thou  shalt  not  bear  false  witness  against  thy  neighbour. 

Think  of  the  sorrow  and  distress  in  the  world,  as  a  result  of  men  and 
women  gossiping  about  their  neighbors,  testifying  to  things,  or  referring 
to  things  that  are  not  true,  and  implying  that  they  are  true.  But  they 
never  get  any  happiness  out  of  it.  You  never  saw  a  gossip  in  your  life 
that  was  happy.  He  is  just  as  unhappy  and  miserable  as  the  devil  all  the 
time — and  of  course  he  is  in  Satan's  company  when  he  is  gossiping  about 
his  neighbors. 

This  is  one  of  the  transgressions  that  the  Lord  points  out  particular- 
ly, and  we  ought  to  be  very  careful.  If  we  state  anything,  it  should  be 
the  truth.  We  should  never  testify  to  anything  that  is  untrue.  And  if 
we  are  truthful  always,  our  Heavenly  Father  has  assured  us  happiness. 

Thou  shalt  not  covet  thy  neighbour's  house,  thou  shalt  not  covet  thy 
neighbour's  wife,  nor  his  manservant,  nor  his  maidservant,  nor  his  ox,  nor 
his  ass,  nor  any  thing  that  is  thy  neighbour's. 

Some  people  are  never  satisfied  with  what  they  themselves  possess, 
but  they  want  something  that  somebody  else  possesses,  and  if  they  cannot 
obtain  it  in  any  other  way,  they  will  obtain  it  by  foul  means.  But  it  does 
not  result  in  happiness. 

I  want  to  say  in  passing,  my  brethren,  if  you  want  to  be  happy,  and 
I  think  we  all  want  to  be  happy,  we  must  conform  our  lives  to  the  wise 
counsels  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  who  gave  these  Ten  Commandments 
to  ancient  Israel,  and  they  are  binding  upon  modern-day  Israel,  just  the 
same. 

A  Law  Given  to  the  Latter-day  Saints 

Then  he  gave  us  another  commandment  that  has  a  great  influence 
upon  the  happiness  of  our  lives.  I  should  like  to  refer  just  briefly  to  this. 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

The  world  is  not  responsible  to  the  Lord  for  what  I  am  about  to 
read  you,  but  we  are,  because  He  gave  it  to  us  in  addition  to  all  the  other 
commandments  that  have  been  given  us  in  the  Old  and  New  Testaments 
— "Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself,"  and  all  other  inspired  ad- 
vice intended  to  make  men  happy — in  addition  to  which  he  gave  us  in  our 
day  another  law  that  is  referred  to  as  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  It  means  a 
simple  law,  but  I  have  never  known  anybody  that  was  happy  as  a  result 
of  violating  it. 

The  Lord  says  that  we  should  not  use  hot  or  strong  drinks.  He 
tells  us  that  tobacco  is  not  good  for  us.  He  advises  us  against  the  using 
of  these  things,  and  tells  us  that  we  should  use  grain  for  food  and  even 
tells  us  the  kind  of  grain  that  is  best  for  us.  He  tells  us  that  there  are 
some  things  that  are  better  than  others.  He  tells  us  to  use  meat  only 
sparingly,  and  he  gives  us  the  privilege  of  having  all  wholesome  herbs  and 
fruits  as  part  of  our  diet  and  promises  us,  with  the  use  of  these  things, 
happiness. 

He  warns  us  against  the  use  of  strong  drinks  and  tobacco.  Last 
year,  this  state  that  we  live  in,  violated  that  commandment  of  God  to  the 
extent  of  over  $22,000,000.  Yet,  we,  many  of  us,  belong  to  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  want  to  say  that  not  one  penny  of  that  $22,000,000  that  was  used 
for  these  things  that  our  Heavenly  Father  has  said  are  not  good  for  us, 
has  produced  any  happiness.  On  the  contrary  it  has  produced  misery, 
and  sorrow,  and  the  unfortunate  part  of  it  is  that  it  not  only  applies  to 
us  in  mortality,  but  also  it  will  mean  sorrow  in  many  cases  throughout 
the  ages  of  eternity. 

So,  my  brethren,  how  blessed  we  are  if  we  are  living  under  the  in- 
fluences that  God  intended  we  should  live  under.  If  we  keep  His  com- 
mandments we  are  making  progress,  and  development  is  sure  to  follow. 
But  if  we  fail  to  take  His  advice,  if  we  refuse  to  accept  His  counsel,  then 
we  will  be  in  the  same  condition  as  the  rest  of  the  world  who  are  soon,  I 
may  say,  to  be  "ripe  for  destruction,"  unless  they  repent ;  and  unless  we 
repent  of  the  wrongs  that  we  do,  some  of  us  will  be  very  remorseful  when 
we  analyze  the  situation  and  examine  ourselves  to  find  we  are  justifying 
ourselves  because  we  are  like  the  world. 

Now,  when  the  Savior  was  upon  the  earth  in  the  meridian  of  time, 
He  taught  his  disciples  what  they  should  do,  exhorted  them  to  works  of 
righteousness,  and  marked  the  pathway  that  would  lead  them  into  his 
presence  in  the  celestial  kingdom — not  only  did  He  advise  His  children 
in  the  Old  World,  but  He  came  over  into  this  western  hemisphere  and 
taught  the  people  the  same  things  here.  Why?  Because  He  wanted 
them  to  be  happy ;  He  wanted  them  to  utilize  their  time  upon  the  earth  to 
their  advantage  and  not  waste  it.  He  came  down  from  heaven,  and  they 
saw  Him  coming  out  of  heaven.  He  gave  them  counsel  and  advice  that 
is  contained  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  some  of  which  is  also  contained  in 
the  Old  and  New  Testaments. 

He  revealed  the  Word  of  Wisdom  in  our  day  with  the  promise  of 
health  and  happiness  and  long  life  if  we  would  observe  it.  Now,  brethren, 


GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


31 


we  cannot  blame  our  Heavenly  Father  if  we  are  not  happy.  We  have 
nobody  to  blame  but  ourselves. 

I  can  say  to  you  that  if  we  have  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  burning  in  our 
souls  we  cannot  be  unhappy.  We  read  in  Job  that  there  is  a  spirit  in  man, 
and  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  giveth  him  understanding.  If  we  keep 
the  commandments  of  God  we  are  entitled  to  that  inspiration,  and  if  we 
live  as  the  sons  of  God  ought  to  live,  we  will  have  that  inspiration,  and  no- 
body can  prevent  it,  and  the  result  will  be  our  own  physical  and  mental 
and  moral  development  in  mortality,  and  continued  development  through- 
out the  ages  of  eternity. 

Observance  of  God's  Laws  Brings  Safety 

So  I  am  asking  today  that  we  examine  ourselves.  Let  us  set  our 
own  homes  in  order.  Are  we  observing  the  teachings  of  our  Heavenly 
Father,  or  are  we  setting  our  own  judgment  up,  and  saying,  "We'll  do 
as  we  please"?  The  world  may  do  that  without  so  much  criticism,  it 
seems  to  me;  but  I  cannot  understand  how  we,  who  have  received  so 
many  blessings,  can  do  that.  I  cannot  see  how  we  can  be  satisfied  with 
ourselves  if,  when  we  make  a  mistake,  we  do  not  correct  it  just  as  soon 
as  possible.  I  am  sure  that  most  of  us  will  make  mistakes,  but  we  do  not 
need  to  go  on  making  mistakes.  I  remember  my  own  father  saying  to  me 
when  I  was  a  child:  "My  son,  you  will  go  out  into  the  world,  and  every 
once  in  a  while  you  will  stub  your  toe  and  fall  down ;  but  for  goodness' 
sake,  do  not  stub  your  toe  twice  in  the  same  place." 

I  have  thought  of  that  a  good  many  times.  When  I  have  made  a 
mistake  and  found  I  have  made  it,  I  have  tried  to  avoid  it  in  the  future. 
Insofar  as  I  have  done  that,  I  have  had  happiness.  I  may  say  to  you,  all 
the  unhappiness  I  have  known  in  the  world  has  been  the  result  of  a  fail- 
ure to  measure  up  in  taking  advice  from  our  Heavenly  Father  and  living 
it — all  of  it.  It  may  not  have  been  my  own  transgression ;  it  may  have 
been  the  transgressions  of  some  others  that  I  love,  but  unhappiness  has 
always  followed  violating  the  advice  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

You  brethren  hold  the  Priesthood.  That  is  why  you  are  here.  You 
are  here  because  you  have  received  a  special  gift  from  our  Heavenly 
Father.  You  are  here  because  the  hands  of  the  servants  of  God  have  been 
laid  upon  your  heads  and  you  have  been  given  a  divine  calling  and  an  op- 
portunity, and  in  addition  to  that  you  have  been  given  all  the  advice  that 
anybody  has  had  in  all  the  world  to  make  us  happy.  Our  Heavenly  Father 
loves  us,  and  he  loves  our  lives  when  they  conform  to  his  teachings. 

Today  in  the  midst  of  the  confusion  that  exists  in  the  world,  let  us 
not  follow  the  adversary  who  would  lead  us  into  by-paths.  Rather  let  us 
plant  our  feet  upon  the  highway  that  leads  to  happiness  and  the  celestial 
kingdom,  not  just  occasionally,  but  every  day,  and  every  hour,  because  if 
we  will  stay  on  the  Lord's  side  of  the  line,  if  we  will  remain  under  the 
influence  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  the  adversary  cannot  even  tempt  us. 
But  if  we  go  into  the  devil's  territory  where  drinking,  smoking,  carousing, 
immorality,  lying  and  stealing  predominate,  we  will  be  unhappy  and  that 


32  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Day 

unhappiness  will  increase  as  the  years  go  by,  unless  we  repent  of  our  sins 
and  turn  to  the  Lord. 

I  have  traveled  in  the  world  approximately  a  million  miles,  in  my 
ministry.  I  have  been  in  many  lands  and  climes,  and  I  have  met  many 
people.  I  have  never  known  anybody  who  had  real  happiness  in  his  life 
except  on  the  score  that  he  was  keeping  the  commandments  of  God  as  far 
as  he  was  able. 

Now,  we  want  to  be  happy.  We  want  our  homes  to  be  happy.  If  we 
do,  let  them  be  the  abiding  place  of  prayer,  thanksgiving  and  gratitude. 
Ask  a  blessing  upon  the  food  when  we  partake  of  it.  Fathers,  be  kind 
to  wives  and  children,  and  children  be  kind  to  mother  and  father.  "Love 
one  another."  "Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother." 

I  feel  very  grateful  that  the  Lord  has  made  me  capable  of  under- 
standing some  of  these  things.  I  am  grateful  that  the  inspiration  of  the 
Almighty  has  taken  possession  of  me  sufficiently  that  I  have  understand- 
ing in  regard  to  these  things,  and  He  has  given  you  the  same  opportunity, 
and  you  have  enjoyed  it. 

Today  in  this  conference  and  the  meetings  that  follow,  we  are  here 
to  wait  upon  the  Lord.  All  the  advice  recorded  in  the  scriptures  we  have 
access  to ;  and  then  He  calls  us  together,  and  advises  us,  under  the  in- 
fluence of  His  Spirit,  to  do  the  thing  that  is  right.  When  we  do  what  He 
wants  us  to  do,  we  will  never  injure  any  living  soul.  We  will  always  be 
helpful  to  them,  and  we  will  enrich  their  lives  as  well  as  our  own. 

A  Testimony 

I  know  that  God  lives ;  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ ;  I  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  the  living  God,  and  I  am  thankful  to  have 
lived  in  a  day  of  the  world  when  these  things  were  made  known  unto  the 
children  of  men.  I  am  thankful  to  my  forebears  that  they  accepted  the 
Gospel  and  made  it  possible  for  me  to  partake  of  its  blessings  if  I  will. 

That  the  Lord  may  add  his  blessing,  that  we  may  continue  faithful, 
that  we  may  Jove  one  another,  remembering  those  who  have  been  our 
associates  before,  who  have  been  faithful  and  have  passed  on  I  humbly 
pray.  As  I  stand  here  I  think  of  the  men  who  have  preached  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  from  this  pulpit,  who  have  long  since  passed  to  their  re- 
ward, and  realize  that  in  the  not  far  distant  future  every  one  of  us  who 
are  here  will  face  our  record,  whatever  it  may  be.  With  that  feeling  and 
that  assurance,  let  us  set  our  own  homes  and  our  lives  in  order,  and  be 
rich  in  the  companionship  of  the  spirit  of  God,  for  the  only  pathway  of 
happiness  is  the  pathway  of  righteousness  that  will  eventually  terminate 
»n  the  celestial  kingdom,  in  the  presence  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  with 
the  good  men  and  women  who  have  lived  upon  the  earth  from  the  begin- 
ning. I  bear  you  that  witness,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord. 
Amen. 


As  the  closing  song,  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Zion  Stands 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  33 

i 

With  Hills  Surrounded"— Words  by  John  Kelly,  music  by  A.  C.  Smyth 
(L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  287). 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  George  L.  Scott,  President 
of  the  Portland  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.m. 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  2  o'clock  p.m.,  Thursday,  April  6. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  is  the  second  session  of  the  114th  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square. 

We  will  begin  the  service  by  the  congregation  singing  "How  Firm 
A  Foundation,"  (Song  Folder  No.  14,  L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  239,  Hymn 
Book  No.  237).  The  words  are  by  Kirkham.  Our  conductor  is  Elder 
(■  Spencer  Cornwall,  and  our  organist,  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "How  Firm  A  Foundation." 

Elder  Harold  S.  Snow,  President  of  the  St.  George  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

Singing  by  the  congregation,  "Come  All  Ye  Sons  of  God" — Words 
by  T.  Davenport  (L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  302). 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  realize  that  I  am  standing  before  a  large  body  of  leading  repre- 
sentative men  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  men 
of  ability,  experience  and  devotion  to  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

I  sincerely  hope  that  what  I  have  to  say  will  be  considered  approp- 
riate for  the  occasion,  and  stimulate  some  of  us  to  greater  effort,  along 
lines  of  religious  activity,  particularly  that  of  individual  missionary  work, 
one  of  the  most  important,  and  most  neglected,  of  all  the  responsibilities 
resting  upon  us,  as  members  of  the  Church. 

Service  the  Manifestation  of  Love 

The  scriptures  plainly  teach,  and  we,  the  Latter-day  Saints,  most 
sincerely  believe  in  the  doctrine,  of  the  fatherhood  of  God  and  the  brother- 
hood of  man,  and  we  rejoice  in  the  nobility  of  our  ancestry,  and  this  sug- 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

gests  to  the  mind  love  for  God  and  for  man.  We  believe  in  the  two  great 
commandments,  upon  which  hang  all  the  law  and  the  prophets  : 

"Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all 
thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind,"  and,  "Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as 
thyself." 

We  believe  that  service  is  the  best  manifestation  of  love,  and  that 
the  greatest  service  that  can  be  rendered  to  man,  and  to  our  God,  is  that 
of  bringing  souls  unto  Him  and  His  kingdom.  Hence,  we  willingly  make 
the  sacrifice  of  preaching  the  gospel  to  the  world,  and  in  other  respects, 
to  serve  our  God  and  our  fellow  man  in  a  religious  way.  All  the  work 
of  the  Church  is  of  this  character.  The  Lord  said  to  His  servant,  Moses : 

"For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man."  (Moses  1 :39.)  This  is  the  end 
our  Father  has  had  in  view  from  the  beginning.  All  else  is  but  a  means 
to  this  end.  For  this  purpose  the  Gospel  was  instituted  from  before  the 
foundations  of  the  world.  For  this  purpose  the  Church  of  Christ  was 
established,  in  the  various  gospel  dispensations  on  the  earth,  and  for  this 
purpose  the  gospel  has  been  restored  anew  in  these  last  days,  and  the 
responsibility  rests  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  preach  it  to  all  the 
world,  and  to  carry  forward  the  work  of  the  Lord  in  all  the  earth.  What 
we  have  done  and  are  doing  to  discharge  ourselves,  as  a  people,  and  as 
individual  members,  of  this  responsibility,  is  an  evidence  of  our  sincerity, 
in  what  we  profess.  For  more  than  a  century  we  have  been  preaching 
the  gospel  in  the  nation  of  the  earth  and  on  the  islands  of  the  sea,  and 
many  thousands  of  honest-hearted  souls  have  been  brought  into  the  fold 
of  the  Master.  We  are  organized  also,  as  a  Church,  to  preach  the  gospel 
to  non-members  within  the  stakes  of  Zion,  and  splendid  results  have  at- 
tended our  efforts  in  this  direction. 

Missionary  Work  of  Great  Importance 

There  is  one  system  of  missionary  work,  however,  definitely  pre- 
scribed by  revelation,  that  has  not  received  the  attention  of  members  of 
the  Church,  that  its  importance  deserves;  it  is  individual  missionary 

work. 

Behold,  I  sent  you  out  to  testify  and  warn  the  people,  and  it  becometh 
every  man  who  hath  been  warned,  to  warn  his  neighbor.  Therefore,  they  are 
left  without  excuse,  and  their  sins  are  upon  their  own  heads.  (D.  &  C.  88: 
81,  82.) 

If  every  man  who  has  received  the  Gospel  were  to  regard  himself  as 
a  missionary  for  the  Lord,  as  the  Lord  intends  he  should  be,  and  then 
discharge  himself  conscientiously  and  fully  of  that  responsibility,  there 
would  be  an  accomplishment  in  missionary  work,  exceeding  anything  we 
have  in  the  Church  today.  The  results  of  stake  missionary  work  show 
that  people  are  here  to  be  converted,  and  what  might  be  accomplished 
through  individual  effort. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


35 


How  sweet  'twill  be  at  evening 
If  you  and  I  can  say, 
Good  Master,  we've  been  seeking 
The  lambs  that  went  astray. 
Heartsore  and  faint  from  hunger, 
We  heard  them  making  moan, 
And  lo,  we've  come  at  nightfall 
Bringing  them  safely  home. 

When  people  out  in  the  world  become  converted  and  join  the  Church, 
they  pretty  generally  use  their  influence  to  interest  their  neighbors  and 
friends  in  the  gospel.  I  have  thought  that  where  we  have  regular  branch 
organizations  in  the  missions,  the  Saints  do  as  much  toward  making  con- 
verts as  do  the  regular  missionaries.  But  at  home  we  are  prone  to  leave 
the  non-members  alone,  to  their  serious  loss,  and  our  own  condemnation. 

At  a  conference  I  at  one  time  attended  in  North  Davis  Stake,  Presi- 
dent Henry  Blood  related  an  experience  had  by  him,  while  filling  a  mis- 
sion in  England,  which  is  a  fair  example  of  these  two  classes — Saints  in 
the  mission  and  Saints  in  the  stakes  toward  individual  effort  in  mission- 
ary work. 

President  Blood  said  that  in  answer  to  a  missionary  call,  when  a 
young  man,  he  went  to  England.  After  being  there  some  time,  he  was 
made  president  of  a  district,  and  at  the  close  of  one  of  their  conferences 
a  good  sister  invited  him  to  go  with  her  to  dinner,  saying  that  she  had  in- 
vited a  gentleman  investigator  to  dinner,  and  she  would  like  President 
Blood  to  meet  him.  Our  missionaries  are  looking  for  such  opportunities, 
and  President  Blood  cheerfully  accepted  the  invitation  and  went  with 
the  sister.  While  she  was  preparing  dinner,  President  Blood  was  sitting, 
in  the  front  room  looking  out  onto  the  street,  when  a  man  walked  past 
the  window  on  the  sidewalk  and  entered  the  gate,  whom  President  Blood 
recognized  as  a  man  who  had  lived  in  Kaysville,  President  Blood's  home 
town,  for  some  years.  He  had  for  some  reason  returned  to  the  land  of 
his  nativity,  and  this  iady  had  made  his  acquaintance  and  was  teaching 
him  the  gospel.  President  Blood  had  to  go  to  England  to  do  what  might 
and  should  have  been  clone  at  home. 

I  regard  our  responsibility  as  members  of  the  Church,  much  as  that 
which  the  Lord  placed  upon  his  servant,  Ezekiel,  in  his  day : 

Son  of  man,  I  have  made  thee  a  watchman  unto  the  house  of  Israel : 
therefore  hear  the  word  at  my  mouth,  and  give  them  warning  from  me. 
When  I  say  unto  the  wicked,  Thou  shall  surely  die ;  and  thou  givest  him  not 
warning,  nor  speakest  to  warn  the  wicked  from  his  wicked  way,  to  save  his 
life;  the  same  wicked  man  shall  die  in  his  iniquity ;  but  his  blood  will  I  re- 
quire at  thine  hand..  Yet  if  thou  warn  the  wicked,  and  he  turn  not  from  his 
wickedness,  nor  from  his  wicked  way,  he  shall  die  in  his  iniquity ;  but  thou 
hast  delivered  thy  soul.    (Ezekiel  3:17-19.) 

i 

There  are  souls  about  us  to  be  saved  and  in  the  process,  if  we  do  our 
full  duty  by  them,  we  deliver  our  own  souls.  We  who  have  received  the 
gospel  know  the  great  need  our  non-Mormon  friends  have  for  what  we 
have  to  offer  them,  and  the  value  it  will  be  to  them,  when  they  receive  it, 
which  value  exceeds  the  wealth  of  this  world. 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Dap 

In  this  kind  of  service  both  giver  and  recipient  are  greatly  enriched. 
The  Lord  has  indicated  the  spirit  in  which  this  missionary  work  is 
to  be  done. 

And  no  one  can  assist  in  this  work  except  he  shall  be  humble  and  full 
of  love,  having  faith,  hope  and  charity,  being  temperate  in  all  things,  what- 
soever shall  be  entrusted  to  his  care.    (D.  &  C.  12:8.) 

We  are  rich  in  a  knowledge  of  the  things  of  the  kingdom  of  God.  All 
about  us  are  men  and  women  who  are  in  abject  poverty,  pertaining  to  a 
knowledge  of  the  gospel. 

We  do  not  want  to  be  in  the  same  class  with  the  rich  man  who, 
through  neglect  of  his  poor  neighbor,  Lazarus,  found  himself  in  hell  and 
torment. 

Our  Responsibility  to  Serve 

As  members  of  the  Church  we  are  under  obligation  to  respond  to 
every  Call  that  may  be  made  upon  us  by  those  who  are  in  authority.  The 
Lord  has  said,  "Whether  by  mine  own  voice  or  by  the  voice  of  my  ser- 
vants, it  is  the  same."  (D.  &  C.  1 :38.)  And  when  we  accept  a  call,  we 
should  regard  that  acceptance  as  a  solemn  covenant  on  our  part  to  mag- 
nify that  calling. 

Should  we  not  be  called  to  any  particular  office,  we  will  have  ample 
opportunity  to  labor  and  do  good,  and  assist  in  saving  souls,  the  most 
important  wark  in  which  a  person  can  be  engaged. 

For  behold,  it  is  not  meet  that  I  should  command  in  all  things ;  for  he 
that  is  compelled  in  all  things,  the  same  is  a  slothful  and  not  a  wise  servant ; 
wherefore  he  receiveth  no  reward.  Verily  I  say,  men  should  be  anxiously 
engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and  do  many  things  of  their  own  free  will,  and 
bring  to  pass  much  righteousness ;  For  the  power  is  in  them,  wherein  they 
are  agents  unto  themselves.  And  inasmuch  as  men  do  good  they  shall  in  no- 
wise lose  their  reward.  But  he  that  doeth  not  anything  until  he  is  com- 
manded, and  receiveth  a  commandment  with  doubtful  heart,  and  keepeth  it 
with  slothfulness,  the  same  is  damned.    (D.  &  C.  58:26-29.) 

There  is  no  shelving  of  a  good  man  in  this  Church.  With  the  re- 
sponsibility of  individual  missionary  work,  and  of  genealogical  and 
temple  work  staring  one  in  the  face,  he  needs  have  no  other  calling  to 
occupy  his  time  and  his  efforts  to  do  good,  to  please  the  Lord,  and  to 
work  out  his  own  salvation. 

This  suggests  service  to  others  and  labor  for  self.  But  there  is  no 
excellence  of  service  without  labor. 

The  man  that  wants  a  garden  fair,  .  . 

One  small  or  very  big, 

With  flowers  growing  here  and  there, 

Must  bend  his  back  and  dig. 

The  things  are  very  few  in  life, 

That  wishes  can  attain. 

Whatever  we  want  of  any  worth 

We've  got  to  work  to  gain. 

It  matters  not  what  goal  we  seek, 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


37 


Its  secret  here  reposes, 

We've  got  to  work  from  week  to  week,  , 

To  get  results  or  roses. 

A  Strong  Testimony 

The  knowledge  I  have  of  the  gospel,  and  the  testimony  I  have  of  its 
truth  and  saving  power,  make  my  appreciation  and  love  for  it  beyond  my 
power  to  express.  I  do  know  that  the  work  in  which  we,  as  Latter-day 
Saints,  are  engaged  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  the  plan  of  the  Gods  for  the 
existence  of  the  earth,  and  of  man  upon  the  earth,  for  their  glory  and  for 
man's  exaltation,  through  obedience  unto  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the 
gospel,  and  through  the  atonement  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ. 
His  is  the  only  name  under  heaven -by  which  man  may  be  saved  in  the 
kingdom  of  God.  And  no  man  can  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God  ex- 
cept he  believe  on  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  and  in  the  efficacy  of  His 
atoning  blood. 

In  a  most  solemn  manner,  I  bear  to  you  my  testimony  that  God  the 
Eternal  Father  and  His  Son  Jesus  Christ  did  reveal  themselves  to  Joseph 
Smith,  whom  God  raised  up  to  be  the  mighty  prophet  of  the  last  days. 
That  the  Prophet  Joseph,  as  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God,  ac- 
complished the  work  of  establishing  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God  on 
earth,  and  of  restoring  the  gospel  in  its  fulness,  and  following  in  the 
footsteps  of  the  Savior,  sealed  his  testimony  with  his  blood. 

That  Brigham  Young  was  his  legal  and  lawful  successor,  as  presi- 
dent of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  And  that  those 
who  succeeded  to  the  presidency,  down  to  and  including  the  present  presi- 
dent— Heber  J.  Grant — have  been  men  of  God  led  and  directed  by  him 
in  their  ministerial  labors,  so  that  the  work  has  progressed  and  prospered, 
and  it  will  continue  so  to  do  until  the  Savior  shall  come,  and  the  kingdom 
of  our  Lord,  and  He  shall  dwell  personally  upon  the  earth,  and  rule  as 
King  of  Kings  and  Lord  of  Lords  forever. 

This  testimony  is  true  and  faithful  and  I  bear  it  to  you  and  to  all 
the  world  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

v 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

May  I  say  by  way  of  introduction  to  the  few  words  I  wish  to  give 
this  afternoon  as  a  message,  that  the  call  of  Elder  Mark  Petersen  to  be 
an  apostle  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  receives  our  hearty  support  and  love. 

Elder  Petersen  is  a  high  type  of  man,  a  Christian  gentleman  in  every 
particular.  What  a  fine  work  he  is  destined  to  do  as  a  disciple  of  our 
Lord! 

Comment  By  An  Eminent  Architect  About  the  Tabernacle 

On  entering  these  sacred  grounds  this  morning,  I  saw  the  dentils 
that  surround  the  cornice  of  this  building.   It  is  the  dentils,  and  there  are 


38  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

hundreds  of  them,  that  give  beauty  to  the  simple  and  unadorned  cornice 
of  the  Tabernacle.  You  will  note  them  just  under  the  roof  if  you  will 
look  closely.  They  were  recently  the  inspiration  for  comment  by  the 
great  American  architect,  Thomas  E.  Tallmadge  in  his  Story  of  Archi- 
tecture in  America.  He  had  been  telling  about  the  influence  of  Greek 
ideals  on  early  American  architecture  and  says :  "Up  and  down  the 
Atlantic  seaboard,  through  the  Western  Reserve,  along  the  Gulf  of  Mex- 
ico, up  the  Mississippi,  and  over  the  plains,  the  Greek  revival  spread.  I 
have  noticed  that  the  famous  tabernacle  built  in  Salt  Lake  City  by  that 
extraordinary  man,  Brigham  Young,  has  the  tell-tale  Greek  profiles  in  its 
mouldings  and  cornices."  Dr.  Tallmadge  refers  to  the  dentils,  which 
give  to  this  building  a  beauty  relieving  the  cornice  of  its  extreme  unadorn- 
ment.  One  famous  artist  said  that  the  dentils  remind  him  of  a  beautiful 
piece  of  old  lace. 

The  Angel  on  the  Temple 

The  angel  on  the  center  tower  of  the  temple  also  looked  very  beau- 
tiful this  morning,  bathed  as  it  was  by  the  gold  light  of  the  morning  sun. 
I  almost  imagined  hearing  John  the  Revelator  himself  speaking  to  me 
his  exquisite  words  as  he  peered  into  the  future : 

And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the  ever- 
lasting gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to  every 
nation,  and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people, 

Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God,  and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the 
hour  of  his  judgment  is  come  :  and  worship  him  that  made  heaven,  and  earth, 
and  the  sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters.    (Rev.  14:6,  7.) 

The  Purpose  of  Monuments  and  Buildings 

Then  I  passed  the  gull  monument,  the  creation  of  our  own  Mahonri 
Y oung.  It  is  in  honor  of  the  gulls  in  their  saving  the  wheat  fields  in 
1848,  when  they  were  being  destroyed  by  the  locusts.  The  south  bronze 
of  the  monument  was  pronounced  by  Rodin,  the  most  noted  sculptor  of 
France,  as  one  of  the  outstanding  pieces  of  American  sculpture. 

I  speak  of  these  things  because  they  represent  so  much  in  our  history. 
They  are  the  creations  of  great  men — great  souls.  Only  a  deeply  religious 
people  could  create  a  building  like  this  tabernacle ;  only  a  good  people 
could  construct  a  building  like  yonder  temple.  A  religious  leader  of  India 
once  wrote  above  the  portal  of  a  temple  in  Kashmir,  India,  these  words : 
"O  God,  in  every  temple,  I  see  people  who  see  Thee."  These  buildings 
involved  the  human  constants,  common  to  humanity  throughout  the  ages 
— hunger  and  labor,  seed-time  and  harvest,  love  and  death,  faith  and 
prayer — all  operated  to  produce  the  noble  things  you  see  on  these  sacred 
grounds. 

The  Standard  Works  of  the  Church 

My  brethren,  I  often  feel  that  we  fail  to  see  the  beauty  that  lies  all 
about  us;  we  fail  to  realize  that  the  three  great  characteristics  of  creation 
arc  truth,  beauty,  and  goodness.    God  is  behind  all  truth,  beauty,  and 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


39 


goodness,  and  there  is  nothing  so  noble  for  the  soul,  so  uplifting  as  to  be 
able  to  find  beauty  in  all  truth.  In  fact,  it  was  the  poet  Keats  who  said : 
''Beauty  is  truth,  truth  beauty."  These  statements  apply  to  our  Church 
works:  The  Holy  Bible,  the  "Holy"  Book  of  Mormon,  the  "Holy" 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  the  "Holy"  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  I  freely 
use  the  adjective  "Holy,"  because  all  these  four  standard  Church  works 
are  sacred.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith's  entire  life  was  devoted  to  dis- 
covering and  having  revealed  to  him  the  truths  of  God.  These  are  the 
forces  that  made  his  life  what  it  was — a  life  of  refinement  and  apprecia- 
tion for  the  beautiful. 

I  believe,  my  brethren,  that  if  we  as  missionaries  will  present  the 
word  of  the  Lord  as  contained  in  the  standard  works  of  the  Church  in  a 
manner  that  will  bring  out  the  beauty  of  them,  people  will  begin  to  read 
them  as  never  before.  Take  the  Holy  Bible.  When  I  read  the  first  words 
as  contained  in  the  Book  of  Genesis  : 

In  the  beginning  God  created  the  heaven  and  the  earth.  And  the  earth 
was  without  form,  and  void;  .  .  .  And  God  said,  Let  there  be  light;  and 
there  was  light  .  .  So  God  created  man  in  his  own  image,  in  the  image  of 
God  created  he  him — 

I  feel  thankful  for  prophets  and  revelators. 

These  words  plant  in  our  hearts  the  truth  of  truths.  God  is  there 
in  the  heavens  as  our  Father,  the  creator  and  ruler  of  the  universe.  It 
causes  every  soul  to  reach  out  to  Him  and  strive  for  eternity.  Could  any 
words  be  more  beautiful?  The  Holy  Bible  is  the  book  of  God's  words 
and  teachings. 

As  an  example  of  beauty  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  I  commend  to  you 
the  twenty-ninth  chapter  of  Alma,  which  reads  in  part ; 

0  that  I  were  an  angel,  and  could  have  the  wish  of  mine  heart,  that  I 
might  go  forth  and  speak  with  the  trump  of  God,  with  a  voice  to  shake  the 
earth,  and  cry  repentance  unto  every  people ! 

Yea,  I  would  declare  unto  every  soul,  as  with  the  voice  of  thunder, 
repentance  and  the  plan  of  redemption,  that  they  should  repent  and  come 
unto  our  God,  that  there  might  not  be  more  sorrow  upon  all  the  face  of  the 
earth 

The  entire  chapter  is  a  lyric  of  great  beauty.  The  Book  of  Mormon 
is  full  of  such  lyrics.  Some  day  this  holy  book  will  be  sung  into  the  hearts 
of  humanity. 

The  one  hundred  and  ninth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  is 
one  of  my  favorite  chapters  of  that  divine  and  holy  book.  It  is  the  prayer 
offered  at  the  dedication  of  the  Kirtland  Temple  on  March  27,  1836,  in 
which  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  asks  God,  "in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Son  of  Thy  bosom,  in  whose  name  alone  salvation  can  be  administered 
to  the  children  of  men,  we  ask  thee,  O  Lord,  to  accept  of  this  house,  the 
workmanship  of  the  hands  of  us,  thy  servants,  which  thou  didst  com- 
mand us  to  build."  And  then  are  uttered  words  of  admonition  to  train 
our  minds  and  understanding.  Says  the  Prophet: 


40  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

Call  your  solemn  assembly  .  .  .  seek  ye  diligently  and  teach  one  another 
words  of  wisdom;  yea,  seek  ye  out  of  the  best  books  words  of  wisdom; 
seek  learning,  even  by  study  and  also  by  faith.  Organize  yourselves ;  pre- 
pare every  needful  thing ;  and  establish  a  house,  even  a  house  of  prayer,  a 
house  of  fasting,  a  house  of  faith,  a  house  of  learning,  a  house  of  glory,  a 
house  of  order,  a  house  of  God.    (D.  &  C.  88:117-119.) 

Thoughts  are  precious  seeds  of  life,  and  here  we  are  taught  to  be- 
come thinkers.  The  Prophet  Joseph  founded  a  School  of  the  Prophets 
and  encouraged  the  study  of  the  classical  languages  including  Hebrew. 
He  himself  worked  hard  at  the  Hebrew  language  and  set  us  an  example 
of  what  it  means  to  cultivate  the  mind,  for  "a  great  soul  is  strong  to  live 
as  well  as  strong  to  think."  The  Prophet  founded  schools  and  the  Uni- 
versity of  Nauvoo. 

Then  there  is  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  in  which  you  find  the  beau- 
tiful Articles  of  Faith.  Why  this  book  is  so  neglected,  I  do  not  know.  It 
is  a  perfect  reservoir  of  truth,  and  in  it  as  in  all  the  others  I  have  men- 
tioned, we  can  read  about  God  directly,  and  become  deeply  moved  by  His 
holy  words.  There  is  an  Arabian  proverb  which  says :  "A  fig  tree,  look- 
ing upon  a  fig  tree,  becometh  fruitful."  When  we  recite  the  Articles  of 
Faith  let  us  speak  from  the  depths  of  our  souls,  particularly  when  we 
repeat  the  words :  'We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal  Father ;  and  in  His 
Son,  Jesus  Christ ;  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost."  We  go  to  our  holy  books 
for  life,  for  more  life  and  keener  life,  for  life  as  it  crystallizes  into  higher 
and  deeper  significance.  They  create  within  us  a  sense  of  absolute  truth, 
beauty  and  goodness.  They  impart  to  us  the  spirit  of  learning  and  wis- 
dom and  truth.  They  tell  us  which  way  we  must  go  to  find  our  God  who 
leads  us  by  our  faith  to  the  unity  of  the  perfect  life.  May  God  bless  us 
all  and  help  us  daily  to  understand  His  great  truths,  I  ask  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 
President  of  the  Temple  Square  Mission 

My  brethren,  for  me  this  day  has  been  a  glorious  one,  it  is  good  again 
to  meet  men  with  whom  I  have  labored,  having  been  greatly  blessed  and 
encouraged  through  such  associations. 

I  rejoice  in  being  with  you  today  and  in  receiving  your  kind  greet- 
ings and  words  of  encouragement. 

At  this  time  I  am  reminded  of  the  day  I  made  my  first  visit  to  a 
stake  conference,  representing  the  General  Authorities. 

This  was  a  Presthood  conference,  a  uniform  Priesthood  quorum  ac- 
tivity was  to  be  considered. 

As  I  stood  before  that  assembly  of  men,  the  hair  of  their  heads  hav- 
ing grown  gray  in  the  service  of  our  Lord,  I  was  frightened.  I  pleaded 
with  the  Lord  to  direct  me,  and  He  was  good  to  me  as  He  has  always 
been. 

As  I  finished,  the  stake  president  moved  that  those  present  approve 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


41 


the  plan  and  pledge  their  support  and  devotion.  (  The  vote  was  unani- 
mous. 

Following  the  closing  prayer,  each  man  present  greeted  me  with  a 
hearty  handshake  and  a  blessing.   Their  kindness  I  shall  never  forget. 

Since  that  time  I  have  continued  to  receive  blessings  and  encourage- 
ment through  such  associations. 

Many  of  my  friends  were  surprised  at  my  attitude  at  the  time  the 
present  Presiding  Bishopric  were  sustained.  I  have  looked  upon  that 
experience  as  a  choice  blessing;  my  associations  and  opportunities  dur- 
ing the  time  I  served  in  that  office  are  choice  memories  which  I  really 
cherish. 

Before  I  was  called  to  go  to  the  Canadian  mission  President  Grant 
told  me  to  take  a  vacation,  I  started  to  paint  the  outside  woodwork  of  my 
home.  As  I  was  painting  the  cornice,  my  wife  called  me  and  said,  "Pres- 
ident Grant  desires  to  talk  with  you."  As  I  descended  the  ladder  this 
thought  came  to  me,  as  though  someone  had  spoken  to  me :  "You  are  go- 
ing to  Canada."  As  I  entered  my  home  I  turned  to  my  wife  and  said : 
"Get  ready  to  go  to  Canada."  She  answered,  "Is  that  what  he  said?" 
I  told  her  I  had  not  called  but  I  had  a  feeling  I  was  to  receive  that  mes- 
sage. 

I  called  the  President's  office  and  President  Clark  requested  me  to 
go  to  the  President's  office  immediately. 

When  I  entered  he  invited  me  to  be  seated,  informing  me  that  Presi- 
dent Grant  had  been  called  to  the  temple.  When  the  President  returned 
and  took  his  seat  at  the  table  he  said,  "David,  we  are  going  to  send  you 
upon  a  mission."  I  answered,  "When  do  I  leave  for  Canada?"  Presi- 
dent Grant  brought  his  hand  down  on  the  table  with  considerable  force 
as  he  said.  "Who's  been  telling  you?  Can't  our  brethren  keep  their 
mouths  shut?" 

I  tried  to  convince  him  that  our  brethren  had  not  informed  me. 

I  am  happy  to  have  had  a  mission  to  Canada ;  it  has  been  a  blessing 
I  shall  always  remember  and  be  thankful  for. 

From  my  youth  it  has  been  my  blessing  often  to  be  in  the  presence 
of  men  who  have  directed  the  affairs  of  the  Church.  On  one  occasion 
President  Taylor  placed  his  hand  upon  my  head  and  said :  "May  the  Lord 
bless  you  my  boy,  the  Lord  bless  you." 

From  that  day  until  now  it  has  been  my  cherished  privilege  to  know 
and  often  be  in  the  presence  of  those  who  have  since  presided  over  the 
Church. 

I  thank  our  Eternal  Father  for  the  many  blessings  I  have  had  and 
do  now  enjoy,  and  I  pray  that  I  shall  always  be  worthy  of  them.  This  I 
humbly  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Abide  With  Me" — Words  by 
H.  F.  Lyte,  Music  by  Wm.  H.  Monk  (L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  180). 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 


Brethren,  I  feel  that  this  is  a  wonderful  privilege  to  be  associated 
with  you  fine  men,  leaders  in  Israel,  and  the  better  I  become  acquainted 
with  you,  through  my  visits  to  the  various  stakes  of  Zion,  the  more  I 
feel  the  strength  of  this  great  Church.  As  long  as  I  can  recall,  the  Church 
has  meant  more  to  me  than  anything  else  in  the  world.  I  have  always 
rejoiced  in  the  words  of  Isaiah  when  he  told  of  a  day  when  a  marvelous 
work  and  a  wonder  should  come  forth  among  the  children  of  men,  and 
there  has  never  been  a  question  in  my  mind  but  what  I  have  been  privil- 
eged to  live  in  that  day  and  this  is  the  work  to  which  the  prophet  referred. 


It  seems  to  me  that  there  has  never  been  a  time  when  the  Church 
was  achieving  such  fine  results  as  at  the  present  time.  Recently  I  heard 
a  statement  purported  to  have  been  made  by  one  of  our  worthy  patriarchs 
in  his  eighties.  One  of  his  friends  asked  him  if  he  would  not  like  to  pass 
on  to  the  other  side,  calling  attention  to  the  fact  that  his  wife  had  already 
died  and  that  many  of  his  friends  were  there,  and  he  replied,  "I  should 
say,not.  I  have  lived  to  see  the  Lord  accomplish  so  much  in  my  lifetime, 
I  would  like  to  remain  as  long  as  I  can  and  see  what  else  He  is  going  to 
do.  I  have  always  believed  in  the  words  of  the  prophets,  and  I  believe 
they  will  all  be  fulfilled,  literally,  as  the  Savior  has  indicated,  and  that  we 
are  engaged  in  the  greatest  movement  this  world  has  known  since  the 
days  of  the  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ." 

To  me,  one  of  the  greatest  accomplishments  in  the  Church  is  the 
marvelous  faith  of  the  Saints  as  evidenced  in  the  payment  of  their  tithes 
and  their  offerings.  Sometimes  we  look  upon  this  as  merely  a  temporal 
matter  but  it  is  a  marvelous  gauge  of  faith.  In  the  third  chapter  of 
Malachi,  the  prophet  indicates  that  the  Lord  would  send  his  messenger 
to  prepare  the  way  for  his  coming  and  there  is  a  very  peculiar  thing :  that 
entire  chapter,  relating  to  the  preparation  of  his  coming,  deals  with  the 
calling  back  of  Israel  to  the  remembrance  of  the  Lord  in  their  tithes  and 
their  offerings,  indicating  that  the  whole  house  of  Israel  had  departed 
from  him  in  this  great  commandment.  So  far  as  I  know,  there  was  no 
religious  body  in  the  world  observing  the  law  of  tithing  when  that  great 
law  was  revealed  again  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  In  my  position  1 
am  privileged  to  know  of  the  faith  of  the  Saints  in  the  payment  of  their 
tithes  and  their  offerings,  and  the  great  increase  evidencing  their  faith  is 
a  marvelous  thing  to  me. 

We  take  the  report  -to  our  meeting  with  the  First  Presidency  weekly, 
and  when  President  Grant  is  there,  and  the  report  is  handed  to  him,  he 
invariably  remarks,  "Isn't  it  wonderful !"  And  it  is  wonderful  because 
it  evidences  the  faith  of  the  Saints  in  the  work  of  the  Lord  who  plants  in 
the  hearts  of  His  people  a  love  for  the  work  so  that  it  makes  it  easy  for 
them  to  pay  their  tithes  and  their  offerings.  I  am  sure  we  all  rejoiced 
this  morning  in  the  wonderful  report  read  by  President  Clark,  and  I  find 


The  Saints  Manifesting  Faith 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


43 


myself  trying  to  look  into  the  future  and  visualize  what  may  yet  be  ac- 
complished by  the  Church  through  such  faithfulness. 

Responsibility  of  Leaders 

About  two  years  after  the  Church  was  organized,  the  Lord  gave  a 
revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  in  which  He  indicated  that  Zion  was 
to  increase  in  beauty  and  holiness ;  that  her  borders  were  to  be  extended ; 
that  her  stakes  were  to  be  strengthened ;  that  Zion  was  to  arise  and  put 
on  her  beautiful  garments.  In  the  hands  of  this  body  of  men  rests  the 
responsibility  of  that  great  achievement,  and  I  feel  that  Zion  is  increasing 
in  beauty  and  in  holiness. 

In  my  work  with  the  young  people  of  the  Church,  I  feel  proud  of 
the  marvelous  things  they  are  doing  in  the  mdist  of  the  temptations  sur- 
rounding them  today.  I  am  proud  of  the  work  that  is  being  done  in  the 
stakes  of  Zion,  in  the  wards  throughout  the  Church,  and  I  believe  that 
this  Church  is  literally  fulfilling  its  great  destiny.  We  should  realize, 
brethren,  that  ours  is  the  responsibility  to  carry  on.  I  think  of  these 
words  so  often,  for  Zion  must  increase.  It  must  extend  its  borders.  It 
must  strengthen  its  stakes.  There  is  no  backward  trek  in  this  Church, 
and  every  man  called  to  responsibility  of  leadership  ought  to  be  sure  that 
the  work  under  his  direction  is  being  strengthened,  that  as  the  years  come 
and  go,  each  year  finds  us  farther  along  the  way,  and  that  we  are  not 
slipping  in  the  great  responsibility  that  is  ours.  Then  I  try  to  visualize 
the  accomplishments  of  the  future  made  possible  possible  through  the 
continued  faithfulness  of  the  Saints  in  the  payment  of  their  tithes  and 
their  offerings. 

Incident  Regarding  the  Purchase  of  A  Book 

My  father,  Elder  George  F.  Richards,  has  referred  to  the  great  mis- 
sionary work  of  the  Church.  When  this  great  conflict  is  over  and  our 
young  people  return  to  us,  I  hope  the  Church  will  be  able  to  carry  on  a 
missionary  movement  such  as  it  has  never  known  and  such  as  the  world 
has  never  known,  because  I  believe  there  are  many  who  are  honest  in 
heart  waiting  to  know  the  truth. 

When  in  California  recently,  I  heard  of  an  experience  of  one  of  our 
brethren.  He  went  into  a  bookstore  to  purchase  The  Llife  and  Travels  of 
Parley  P.  Pratt,  one  of  the  early  apostles  of  the  Church.  He  had  pre- 
viously ordered  this  book  and  while  he  was  looking  at  it,  a  distinguished 
gentleman,  a  former  vice  president  of  one  of  the  largest  banks  of  Los 
Angeles,  stepped  up  to  him  and  calling  him  by  name  said :  "What  are 
you  buying?"  He  replied,  "A  Church  book."  "Is  it  interesting?"  "Surely 
it  is  interesting."  "Well,  I  believe  I  will  buy  a  copy."  "No,"  said  the  good 
brother,  "if  you  will  promise  to  read  it  from  cover  to  cover,  I  will  give 
you  a  copy."  He  made  the  promise — took  the  book  home.  That  was  on 
a  Saturday  afternoon.  He  commenced  reading  the  book  that  evening,  and 
he  couldn't  put  it  down.  He  stayed  up  all  night  and  read  it  through,  and 
Monday  morning  he  was  at  the  brother's  office  door  when  he  arrived,  to 
tell  him  that  he  had  been  figuring  for  some  time  that  he  ought  to  do  some- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Dag 


thing  in  a  religious  way ;  that  he  had  gone  in  and  out  of  various  churches 
but  seemed  to  come  out  as  empty  as  he  had  gone  in  and  thought  it  was  all 
his  fault.  But  he  said,  "I  was  fascinated  by  that  book.  I  believe  every 
word  that  is  in  it.  But  why  have  you  kept  these  things  from  us?  Why 
haven't  you  told  us  of  these  marvelous  things  that  the  Lord  has  done  ?" 


We  called  a  prominent  attorney,  a  recent  convert  to  the  Church,  to 
speak  in  one  of  our  conference  meetings  in  Los  Angeles  when  I  was  serv- 
ing as  president  of  the  stake,  and  I  said  to  him,  "Will  you  tell  this  con- 
gregation what  there  was  about  Mormonism  that  appealed  to  you  ?"  And 
he  stood  up  and  in  a  rich,  deep  voice  said,  "If  you  have  hunted  for  some- 
thing all  your  life  and  you  couldn't  find  it  and  you  therefore  decided  it 
did  not  exist,  then  you  just  happen  to  stumble  onto  it,  you  do  not  need 
anybody  to  tell  you  that  you  have  found  it,  do  you  ?"  He  said,  "That's 
what  I  found  when  I  found  Mormonism.  The  thing  about  it  is  that  the 
more  I  learn,  the  greater  it  seems  to  be." 


Through  the  continued  faithful  payment  of  tithes  by  the  Saints,  it 
should  be  possible  to  provide  the  branches  of  the  missions  with  suitable 
places  in  which  to  meet,  which  will  be  a  great  help  to  the  missionaries  in 
their  work.  Sometimes  I  feel  that  the  development  of  the  radio  is  pri- 
marily to  make  possible  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  to  every  nation,  kin- 
dred, tongue,  and  people  before  the  end  shall  come,  as  the  prophets  have 
declared.  I  believe  the  Savior  must  have  visualized  this  when  he  declared 
the  message  should  be  proclaimed  from  the  housetops.  This  is  our  re- 
sponsibility, and  the  Church  must  not  fail. 

Then  there  is  the  great  temple  work  of  the  Church.  We  have,  as  you 
know,  recently  completed  a  temple  in  Idaho  Falls  and  have  acquired  land 
for  two  temples  in  California.  While  in  Europe  years  ago,  I  heard  Pres- 
ident Joseph  F.  Smith  tell  the  Saints  there  that  the  day  would  come  when 
temples  of  the  living  God  would  dot  that  whole  land  of  Europe ;  and  I 
look  to  see,  through  the  tithes  of  the  faithful  Latter-day  Saints,  temples 
erected  all  over  this  world  where  the  Saints  of  God  are  gathered. 

Another  of  the  great  achievements  of  the  Church,  causing  it  to  put 
on  its  beautiful  garment,  is  the  Welfare  program  of  the  Church.  We  have 
come  a  long  way  in  our  production  program,  I  dare  say  much  farther  than 
many  had  anticipated.  President  Clark  made  that  clear  in  his  report  this 
morning.  In  a  Welfare  meeting  in  one  of  the  stakes  recently,  the  presi- 
dent of  the  stake  turned  to  me  and  said,  "Bishop,  any  day  you  want  to 
treble  our  assignment,  we  will  accept  it  and  deliver  it  to  you."  Such  a 
spirit  as  this  should  enable  us  to  care  for  all  our  worthy  members,  and 
to  remove  them  from  all  forms  of  public  relief,  and  thus  become  a  light 
unto  the  world  and  an  ensign  to  the  nations.  I  am  sure  the  Lord  will  pro- 
vide the  resources  to  do  this  through  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 


Testimony  of  A  Convert 


Helps  In  Missionary  Work 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS  45 

Blessings  Follow  the  Payment  of  Tithing 

Now,  I  would  like  to  add  a  few  thoughts  on  the  practical  phases  of 
tithing.  I  want  you  to  know  that  I  believe  the  Lord  has  in  mind  to  reward 
adequately  every  Latter-day  Saint  for  his  faithfulness.  In  the  third 
chapter  of  Malachi  the  Lord  promises  to  rebuke  the  devourer  and  open 
the  windows  of  heaven.  What  a  marvelous  promise !  Then  in  answer 
to  their  disputations  He  tells  them  He  will  prepare  a  book  of  remem- 
brances and  when  He  comes  to  claim  His  jewels  "then  shall  ye  return 
and  discern  between  him  that  serveth  God  and  him  that  serveth  him  not." 

When  I  was  in  a  stake  of  Zion  recently,  a  good  brother  asked  me  a 
question  about  paying  tithing.  He  said,  "I  pay  my  tithing  on  that  which 
I  draw  out  of  my  business  to  live  on.  Is  that  right?"  "Well,"  I  said,  as 
I  am  able  to  read  between  the  lines,  "I  would  imagine  that  you  have  ac- 
cumulated an  estate  worth  at  least  a  hundred  or  a  hundred  fifty  thousand 
dollars."  He  said,  "You  are  right,  Bishop."  I  said,  "And  that  to  date 
is  untithed.  If  you  were  to  die  tonight,  would  you  like  to  pass  that  estate 
on  to  your  wife  and  children  knowing  that  you  had  never  tithed  it?"  He 
said,  "I  never  thought  of  it  quite  that  way  before." 

We  have  many  inquiries  at  our  office,  constantly,  about  the  matter 
of  deducting  taxes,  income  taxes,  etc.,  before  paying  tithing,  and  we  are 
told  that  in  some  cases  the  Saints  are  advised  to  do  this,  by  their  bishops. 
I  think  the  bishops  are  being  pretty  liberal  with  the  Lord's  money.  Taxes 
are  no  different  from  what  they  have  always  been  except  in  amount  and 
manner  of  payment.  We  have  never  expected  to  pay  our  taxes  out  of 
the  Lord's  tenth.  That  is  what  we  are  investing  in  the  future  security 
and  freedom  and  liberty  of  the  great  nation  in  which  we  are  privileged  to 
live  while  our  boys  are  out  on  the  battlefield. 

For  some  time  I  have  felt  that  some  farmers  do  not  figure  their  tith- 
ing the  way  I  think  it  should  be  figured.  One  good  farmer  said  to  me, 
"Bishop,  I  know  just  how  to  figure  my  tithing.  I  have  a  jar  in  my  kitchen 
cabinet  and  every  time  I  sell  anything  I  put  a  tenth  of  it  in  the  jar,  then 
I  pay  it  for  tithing."  I  said,  "Is  that  all  you  pay?"  He  said,  "Yes,  isn't 
that  enough  ?"  "Well,"  I  said,  "your  brother  who  lives  up  here  a  few 
miles  earns  a  hundred  dollars  a  month  and  pays  ten  dollars  tithing ;  he 
buys  his  groceries,  his  milk,  his  meat,  and  his  eggs  with  the  money  he  has 
left  after  paying  his  tithing.  Should  a  farmer  not  figure  his  tithing  on  all 
he  consumes  and  his  surplus  and  the  gain  of  his  land  ?' 

I  pray  God  to  bless  you,  brethren.  I  am  proud  of  your  faith.  I  think 
it  is  marvelous  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord,  and  I  leave  you  my  love  and  bless- 
ing and  Dray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  the  good  people  over  whom  you 
preside,  for  their  integrity,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

In  following  Bishop  Richards,  I  feel  very  much  like  a  still  small 
voice.  [Laughter.]    Before  the  days  of  microphones  and  public  address 


46  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

systems,  voices  such  as  mine  were  not  so  easily  heard  by  audiences  such 
as  this,  and  I  am  very  grateful  for  the  mechanical  help  that  makes  it  pos- 
pible  for  us  to  be  heard  by  great  numbers  and  in  far  places. 

A  Tribute  to  the  Leading  Brethren 

I  can  think  of  no  greater  privilege  in  life,  brethren,  than  to  find  fel- 
lowship with  such  men  as  you,  and  I  can  think  of  no  greater  tragedy  or 
source  of  unhappiness  than,  having  found  such  fellowship,  to  be  deprived 
of  it.  I  love  my  brethren  ;  and  I  know  that  I  could  go  to  my  brethren  of 
the  general  authorities  of  the  Church,  to  the  last  man,  in  any  time  of 
need,  and  find  that  I  would  not  depart  empty-handed  or  with  empty  heart. 
1  hope  that  the  time  will  come  in  every  priesthood  quorum  of  this  Church 
when  every  member  of  every  priesthood  quorum  can  feel  that  same  assur- 
ance concerning  his  own  needs,  spiritual  and  otherwise.  It  is  a  great 
source  of  strength  and  satisfaction  and  happiness,  and  assurance  in  life. 

Before  I  proceed  with  one  other  thought  that  I  have,  I  should  like 
to  express  my  personal  regard  for  Brother  Mark  Petersen,  who  this  day 
has  been  called  to  a  place  in  the  council  of  the  twelve.  It  has  been  my 
privilege  and  my  responsibility  for  some  time  to  have  business  with  him 
in  the  course  of  both  of  our  official  duties,  and  I  have  always  found  satis- 
faction in  my  approaches  to  him,  and  have  always  encountered  there  a 
quiet  confidence  and  fairness,  and  safe  judgment.  And  I  subscribe  to 
Brother  Young's  statement  concerning  him,  pertaining  to  his  gentle- 
manly characteristics  on  all  occasions. 

War  Makes  No  Change  In  Gospel 

There  has  been  a  thought  running  through  my  mind,  one  or  two 
phases  of  which  I  should  like  to  mention  here  today. 

War,  of  necessity,  changes  many  things.  "Business  as  usual,"  is 
something  that  cannot  be  expected.  Nor  can  we  expect  "life  as  usual." 
War  may  change,  necessarily,  many  of  the  habits  of  our  living,  especially 
of  a  material  nature. 

But  I  should  like  to  say  this  here  today,  with  the  best  language  that 
I  can  command:  that  war  does  not,  and  must  hot,  and  cannot,  change 
fundamentals.  For  one  thing,  it  does  not  change  our  obligation  to  be 
bearers  of  the  message  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Brother 
George  F.  Richards  has  already  referred  to  some  phases  of  this,  like- 
wise his  son,  Bishop  Richards,  at  this  session. 

If  I  am  not  mistaken,  I  think  Brother  Ivins  of  the  First  Council  of 
the  Seventy  invited  our  attention  some  days  ago  to  the  fact  that  since  the 
beginning  of  the  stake  missionary  movement,  within  the  past  seven  or 
eight  years,  more  than  14,000  baptisms  have  resulted  from  stake  mission- 
ary activity.  To  state  it  another  way,  that  would  add,  perhaps,  about 
three  fairly  good-sized  stakes  to  the  total  membership  of  this  Church— a 
tremendous  accomplishment  in  the  aggregate,  and  yet  missionary  oppor- 
tunities are  very  perishable,  so  far  as  the  individual  is  concerned. 

I  am  reminded  of  the  great  hosts  of  men  and  women  who  have  passed 
through  our  communities  within  the  past  two  or  three  years,  many  of 


) 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


47 


whom  have  now  left,  and  I  am  wondering  with  what  impressions  they 
have  left,  or  if  they  have  any  impression  of  us  at  all.  Some  of  them  who 
were  here  last  month  are  gone ;  some  of  them  who  were  here  last  year  are 
gone ;  some  of  them  who  are  here  now  will  be  gone  next  month.  Mission- 
ary opportunities  on  an  individual  basis  are  exceedingly  perishable  and 
transitory.  War  does  not  change  our  obligations  to  be  bearers  of  the 
message  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  wherever  we  are  and 
under  whatever  circumstances  we  find  ourselves. 

Responsibilities  Concerning  Our  Children  Unchanged 

War  does  not  change  our  obligations  and  responsibilities  concerning 
our  children ;  it  cannot  and  it  must  not. 

I  am  reminded  of  the  fact  that  since  the  early  crisis  in  the  present 
European  theatre  of  war,  five  or  six  years  ago  now,  many  young  men  and 
young  women  who  were  then  twelve  and  fourteen  and  fifteen  years  of 
age,  young  men  particularly,  have  since  passed  through  perhaps  the  most 
critical  years  of  their  lives,  and  are  now  out  fighting,  flying  bombers,  in 
the  armed  forces  of  their  respective  countries,  carrying  the  brunt,  in 
many  instances,  of  the  heaviest  battles.  Should  we  have  become  too 
busy,  because  of  the  actual  existence  of  war,  or  the  imminence  thereof, 
to  have  given  these  children  of  ours  the  foundation  in  our  homes  that 
we  are  obligated  to  give  them  and  that  they  are  entitled  to  have,  thou- 
sands of  them  would  now  have  left  those  homes  without  any  foundation 
on  which  to  place  their  feet. 

I  do  not  know  how  long  the  war  will  last,  and  I  do  not  know  anyone 
who  does  know.  There  are  predictions  extant,  from  a  few  weeks  to  sev- 
eral years.  But  regardless  of  its  length,  I  do  know  that  this  is  one  of  the 
responsibilities  that  war  cannot  and  must  not  change — our  responsibili- 
ties to  our  children — so  that  when  the  time  comes  that  they  must  leave 
us,  for  any  cause  whatsoever,  they  will  have  that  which  will  give  them  a 
fixed  standard  in  life,  a  spiritual  and  moral  foundation  on  which  to  rest 
their  feet,  no  matter  where  they  go  or  in  what  company  they  find  them- 
selves. 

Fundamentals  Still  in  Force 

Another  thing  that  war  does  not  change  is  moral  law,  nor  the  evils 
and  consequences  that  follow  the  disregarding  of  moral  law.  There  is 
only  one  set  of  rules  pertaining  to  the  personal  conduct  of  the  children 
of  our  Father  in  heaven.  If  a  thing  was  not  right  at  home,  it  is  not  right 
away  from  home.  If  it  was  not  right  where  we  came  from,  it  isn't  right 
anywhere,  in  any  company. 

This  spirit  of  social  let-down  and  personal  let-down  is  as  wrong  as  it 
ever  was  or  ever  will  be.  War  does  not  change  fundamentals,  nor  the 
consequences  that  follow  the  ignoring  of  those  fundamentals,  and  it  must 
not  be  allowed  to  glorify  evils.  There  is  a  reward  for  consistency  of  liv- 
ing, frequently  restated  by  the  prophets  of  God  in  a  variety  of  language, 
over  a  wide  period  of  time,  but  it  resolves  itself  to  the  conclusion  in  the 
oft-quoted  phrase :  "He  that  shall  endure  to  the  end  shall  be  saved." 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Day 

May  we  be  enabled  as  a  people,  and  may  our  children,  wherever  they 
are,  be  enabled  to  distinguish  between  those  things  which  war  necessarily 
does  not  change,  and  those  things  which  it  must  not  be  permitted  to 
change,  and  to  cleave  to  the  fundamentals,  both  of  personal  and  social 
conduct,  as  well  as  to  all  our  other  fixed  obligations  and  duties  as  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  as  children  of  God,  our  Father  in  heaven. 

That  we  may  have  the  spirit  of  discernment  to  distinguish  between 
these  things,  and  the  strength,  both  those  of  us  who  are  here  and  those 
who  are  on  far  fronts,  the  pattern  of  whose  lives  has  been  upset  and  brok- 
en, to  carry  forward  and  live  lives  of  consistency,  and  endure  to  the  end, 
is  my  prayer,  to  which  I  add  my  testimony  of  the  truthfulness  and  divin- 
ity of  this  work,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

At  the  session  of  the  conference  this  morning  we  were  informed 
that  the  Church  is  out  of  debt,  that  it  owes  no  man  or  any  institution  a 
dollar.  For  that  I  am  grateful,  as  I  know  you  are.  But  the  Church  is  in 
debt — fortunately  not  financially,  but  it  is  in  debt  now,  has  always  been 
in  debt,  and  will  be  in  debt  as  long  as  time  endures. 

With  the  help  of  the  Lord,  this  afternoon  I  would  like  to  point  out 
some  of  these  obligations  resting  upon  the  Church  collectively,  and  upon 
the  Church  individually. 

Our  Indebtedness  to  the  Lord 

James  has  said  that  "every  good  gift  and  every  perfect  gift  is  from 
above  and  cometh  down  from  the  Father  of  lights,  with  whom  is  no 
variableness,  neither  shadow  of  turning."  Everything  that  we  possess, 
every  blessing  that  comes  is  through  the  mercy  and  the  goodness  of  our 
Father  in  heaven,  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ. 

We  read,  in  the  second  chapter  of  Mosiah,  the  words  of  King  Benja- 
min which  he  was  commanded  by  an  angel  to  preach  unto  his  people.  I 
want  to  read  one  or  two  of  these  verses  :  , 

I  say  unto  you,  my  brethren,  that  if  you  should  render  all  the  thanks 
and  praise  which  your  whole  soul  has  power  to  possess,  to  that  God  who  has 
created  you,  and  has  kept  and  preserved  you,  and  has  caused  that  ye  should 
rejoice,  and  has  granted  that  ye  should  live  in  peace  one  with  another — 
'  I  say  unto  you  that  if  ye  should  serve  him  who  has  created  you  from  the 
beginning,  and  is  preserving  you  from  day  to  day,  by  lending  you  breath, 
that  ye  may  live  and  move  and  do  according  to  your  own  will,  and  even 
supporting  you  from  one  moment  to  another — I  say,  if  ye  should  serve  him 
with  all  your  whole  souls,  yet  ye  would  be  unprofitable  servants. 

And  behold,  all  that  he  requires  of  you  is  to  keep  his  commandments ;  and 
he  has  promised  you  that  if  ye  would  keep  his  commandments,  ye  should 
prosper  in  the  land ;  and  he  never  doth  vary  from  that  which  he  hath  said ; 
Therefore,  if  ye  do  keep  his  commandments,  he  doth  bless  you  and  prosper 
you. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


49 


And  now,  in  the  first  place,  he  hath  created  you,  and  granted  unto  you 
your  lives,  for  which  ye  are  indebted  unto  him. 

And  secondly,  he  doth  require  that  ye  should  do  as  he  hath  commanded 
you ;  for  which  if  ye  do,  he  doth  immediately  bless  you ;  and  therefore  he 
hath  paid  you.  And  ye  are  still  indebted  unto  him,  and  are,  and  will  be,  for- 
ever and  ever ;  therefore,  of  what  have  ye  to  boast  ? 

God's  Plan  Is  to  Bring  Salvation  to  All  Mankind 

How  glorious  is  the  plan  of  salvation,  inaugurated  before  the  founda- 
tion of  the  world  for  the  salvation  of  men.  Adam  was  sent  to  start  the 
race,  and  through  doing  so,  it  became  necessary  for  him  to  transgress  a 
law,  to  bring  death,  or  mortality,  into  the  world.  That  made  it  necessary 
for  the  coming  of  Jesus  Christ  to  redeem  us  from  Adam's  transgression, 
or  the  mortal  death,  and  through  the  mercy  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  and 
His  Son  Jesus  Christ,  through  that  atonement  we  likewise  are  granted 
redemption  from  our  own  sins  on  condition  of  our  repentance. 

The  resurrection  comes  to  every  soul,  no  matter  how  he  lives,  no 
matter  what  he  believes ;  it  comes  to  the  wicked  as  well  as  to  the  righteous, 
and  every  man  shall  receive  his  reward  according  to  his  works. 

Salvation  from  our  individual  sins  comes  through  our  repentance 
and  cannot  come  any  other  way.  And  that  all  comes  through  the  mission 
of  Jesus  Christ,  who,  according  to  the  teachings  of  Paul,  bought  us  with 
a  price,  and  therefore,  we  belong  to  him  and  we  are  indebted  to  him.  Nev- 
er, worlds  without  end,  will  we  be  able  to  pay  that  debt.  And  that  being 
true,  we  are  under  obligation  to  keep  His  commandments,  to  walk  in  the 
light  of  truth,  to  hearken  to  his  precepts,  to  obey  "every  word  that  pro- 
ceedeth  from  the  mouth  of  God." 

Ingratitude  is,  I  think,  the  most  prevalent  of  all  sins,  and  one  of  the 
greatest,  because  every  soul  who  refuses  to  abide  in  the  truth,  who  will  not 
walk  in  the  light  and  understanding  of  the  commandments  which  Jesus 
Christ  has  given,  is  ungrateful.  He  came  and  gave  His  life  to  redeem  us 
from  transgression.  He  was  nailed  to  a  cross  and  His  blood  was  shed. 
What  for  ?  That  we  might  live,  that  we  might  receive  the  remission  of 
our  sins,  that  we  might,  through  obedience  to  the  principles  of  the  gospel, 
come  back  again  into  the  presence  of  God  the  Father,  and  His  Son  Jesus 
Christ. 

He  did  not  have  to  die.  He  did  that  voluntarily.  He  tells  us  plainly 
that  He  laid  down  his  life  that  He  might  take  it  again,  because  that  is  the 
commandment  which  He  had  received  from  His  Father.  "No  man  taketh 
it  from  me,"  He  said,  "but  I  lay  it  down  of  myself ;  I  have  power  to  lay 
it  down,  and  I  have  power  to  take  it  again.  This  commandment  have  I 
received  of  my  Father." 

The  Sufferings  of  the  Savior 

Can  you  imagine  the  suffering,  the  extent  of  the  anguish  of  soul 
that  our  Savior  passed  through — He  who  is  the  Son  of  God — in  order 
that  we  might  receive  the  resurrection,  and  that  we  might  receive  the  re- 
mission of  our  sins  through  obedience  to  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  and 


50  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Dan 

an  exaltation  in  the  presence  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  ?  Do  we  realize 
what  all  of  that  means  ? 

I  think  it  is  understood  by  many  that  the  great  suffering  of  Jesus 
Christ  came  through  the  driving  of  nails  in  His  hands  and  in  His  feet, 
and  in  being  suspended  upon  a  cross,  until  death  mercifully  released  Him. 
That  is  not  the  case.  As  excruciating,  as  severe  as  was  that  punishment, 
coming  from  the  driving  of  nails  through  His  hands  and  through  His 
feet,  and  being  suspended,  until  relieved  by  death,  yet  still  greater  was 
the  suffering  which  He  endured  in  carrying  the  burden  of  the  sins  of 
the  world — my  sins,  and  your  sins,  and  the  sins  of  every  living  creature. 
This  suffering  came  before  He  ever  got  to  the  cross,  and  it  caused  the 
blood  to  come  forth  from  the  pores  of  his  body,  so  great  was  that  anguish 
of  His  soul,  the  torment  of  His  spirit  that  He  was  called  upon  to  undergo. 

Are  we  not  indebted?  Yes.  Are  we  ungrateful?  Yes,  unless  we 
are  willing  to  abide  by  every  word  that  comes  from  the  mouth  of  God. 
unless  we  are  obedient,  unless  our  hearts  are  broken,  in  the  scriptural 
sense,  unless  our  spirits  are  contrite,  unless  within  our  soul  is  the  spirit 
of  humility  and  faith  and  obedience. 

Our  Responsibility  to  Preach  the  Gospel 

Now  there  are  many  debts  which  we  owe  to  the  Lord.  There  is  the 
debt  of  preaching  this  gospel  to  a  wicked  and  a  perverse  generation,  and 
those  are  the  words  of  the  Lord,  so  do  not  accuse  me  of  calling  the  world 
wicked.  It  is.  I  can  testify  to  that  from  what  I  have  seen  of  it,  and  I 
have  seen  of  the  wickedness  but  a  small  part,  I  assure  you.  But  the 
world  today  is  filthy,  drunken,  saturated  and  stinking  with  tobacco.  The 
world  is  full  of  immorality.  It  is  a  fallen  world ;  it  has  been  a  fallen  world 
since  Adam  was  driven  from  the  Garden  of  Eden,  and  yet  we  are  in  it, 
and  the  Lord  has  given  us  the  mission  of  assisting  Him,  of  being  His 
agents  in  this  world,  to  regenerate  it,  as  far  as  it  is  possible  to  bring  to 
pass  that  regeneration.  It  will  never  be  fully  accomplished,  so  far  as  we 
are  concerned;  we  are  not  going,  by  our  preaching,  to  save  very  many 
souls. 

The  Lord  has  given  unto  men  their  agency.  They  may  act  for  them- 
selves, they  can  choose  to  do  good,  or  they  can  choose  to  do  evil,  with  the 
rewards  which  are  coming,  and  most  men  choose  to  do  evil.  The  Lord 
said  that  men  love  darkness  rather  than  light  because  their  deeds  are  evil. 
Yet  our  mission,  I  say,  is,  so  far  as  it  is  within  our  power,  to  regenerate, 
to  bring  to  repentance,  just  as  many  of  the  children  of  our  Father  in  heav- 
en as  it  is  possible  for  us  to  do.  That  is  one  of  our  debts  ;  that  is  an  obliga- 
tion the  Lord  has  placed  upon  the  Church,  and  more  particularly  upon  the 
quorums  of  the  priesthood  of  the  Church,  and  yet  this  obligation  belongs 
to  every  soul. 

It  is  the  duty  of  every  member  of  this  Church  to  preach  the  Gospel 
by  precept  and  by  example.  Brother  George  F.  Richards  quoted  from 
the  scriptures  this  morning,  where  the  Lord  said  it  is  our  duty  to  warn 
the  "world,  and  it  is  the  duty  of  every  person  so  warned  to  warn  his  neigh- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


si 


bor,  and  if  he  will  warn  the  neighbors,  then  they  are  left  without  excuse, 
and  their  blood  is  upon  their  own  heads.  It  is  our  mission  to  warn.  That 
is  one  of  our  obligations,  and  we  owe  this  debt  to  the  world. 

The  Obligation  Assumed  in  Partaking  The  Sacrament 

I  have  already  called  attention  to  the  fact  how  we  are  indebted  to 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  want  to  say  a  little  more  about  it.  We  go,  if  we 
are  attending  to  our  duties,  to  the  sacrament  service  every  Sunday ;  we 
partake  of  the  bread  representing  the  broken  body  of  our  Redeemer ;  we 
drink  the  water  in  remembrance  of  His  blood  which  was  shed ;  and  we 
take  upon  ourselves  obligations  to  do  certain  definite  things.  We  are 
placed  under  covenant,  to  do  what?  To  take  upon  us  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  to  always  remember  Him,  to  keep  His  commandments  which 
He  has  given  us.  These  three  things  we  covenant  to  do  every  time  we 
eat  that  bread,  every  time  we  drink  that  water  which  has  been  dedicated, 
consecrated,  to  that  very  purpose. 

We  are  indebted  then,  or  obligated,  to  take  upon  us  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  This  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  taking  upon  us  His 
name,  we  are  under  obligation  to  respect  Him,  and  to  remember  what  He 
has  done  for  us,  and  we  covenant  to  keep  His  commandments. 

Do  we  think  of  it  seriously?  Can  we  eat  and  drink  in  remembrance 
of  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ,  and  then  go  immediately  out  to  violate 
His  commandments?  Do  we  realize  the  nature  and  the  importance  of 
that  great  covenant  we  take  upon  us  and  renew  every  week  of  our  lives — 
or  at  least  have  the  opportunity  to  do  it  every  week  of  our  lives  ?  We 
are  under  obligation  to  pray.  I  have  been  bold  enough  to  say  (and  I 
confess  I  would  not  be  able  to  prove  it,  but  I  believe  it),  that  we  are  not 
a  praying  people.  I  shall  modify  that  to  this  extent,  by  saying  too  many 
of  us  do  not  pray.  We  do  not  get  down  on  our  knees,  we  do  not  humble 
ourselves,  we  do  not  go  before  the  Lord  with  that  contrite  spirit  as  He 
would  have  us  do,  and  as  we  have  been  taught  to  do. 

The  Good  Name  of  the  Church  to  Be  Guarded 

There  is  another  obligation,  another  debt  that  we  owe.  We  owe  it  as 
a  Church  and  as  individuals,  to  keep  ourselves  clean ;  our  minds  pure,  our 
souls  clean,  uncontaminated  by  the  sins  of  the  world.  It  is  the  duty  of 
each  one  of  us  individually  to  keep  the  good  name  of  this  Church  unsul- 
lied. Now  we  have  been  accused  of  a  great  many  things.  There  is  not  a 
crime  in  the  category  that  has  not  been  laid  to  the  charge  of  the  members 
of  the  Church.  And  the  Lord  said  it  would  be  so,  that  wicked  men  would 
speak  evil  of  the  truth.  We  should  rejoice  when  they  do  that,  not  in 
the  fact  that  we  are  so  accused  by  those  who  bear  false  witness,  but  in  the 
fact  that  we  are  innocent  from  all  those  things.   In  that  we  should  rejoice. 

But  it  is  our  duty  as  a  Church,  as  communities,  to  keep  the  good 
name  of  this  Church  above  reproach,  and  it  is  the  duty  of  each  individual 
member  of  this  Church  to  keep  himself  clean,  for  each  one  of  us  carries 


52  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Dan 

with  him  the  good  name  of  the  Church,  and  whenever  we  do  anything  that 
is  contrary  to  righteousness,  if  we  are  unclean  in  our  lives,  if  we  do  not 
keep  the  commandments  the  Lord  has  given,  the  whole  Church  suffers, 
not  merely  the  guilty  individual  who  sins,  and  we  ought  to  think  of  that. 
If  one  man  sins  and  his  sin  is  published,  the  world  blames  the  whole 
Church.  They  would  not  do  that  with  any  other  organization  under  the 
sun. 

So  it  is  our  obligation,  and  we  owe  this  debt  to  each  other  and  to  the 
Church  at  large  to  keep  ourselves  in  strict  accord  with  all  these  laws  and 
commandments,  to  keep  ourselves  virtuous  and  clean,  clean  in  our 
thoughts,  clean  in  our  actions,  clefan  in  our  words,  clean  from  blasphemy, 
the  taking  of  the  name  of  the  Lord  in  vain.  We  are  in  debt  to  our  Father 
in  heaven  in  regard  to  tithing,  and  we  have  heard  a  good  deal  about  that 
this  afternoon. 

We  are  in  debt  in  regard  to  fasting,  and  I  am  afraid  there  again  we 
have  failed.  A  day  has  been  set  apart  for  fasting  in  this  Church,  and  I 
fear  we  have  made  it  just  about  as  easy  for  people  as  we  can  to  disregard 
this  commandment  by  the  way  we  hold  our  meetings,  and  I  am  not  so  sure 
that  we  are  observing  that  law  as  strictly  as  the  requirements  ddmand 
of  us. 

Let  me  read  a  word  or  two  from  section  59  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants. 

The  Ten  Commandments  were  spoken  of  this  morning.  It  will  not 
hurt  for  me  to  repeat  what  is  written  here,  beginning  with  verse  5,  in  sec- 
tion 59  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

Wherefore,  I  give  unto  them — meaning  members  of  the  Church — a  com- 
mandment, saying  thus :  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy 
heart,  with  all  thy  might,  mind,  and  strength;  and  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ  thou  shalt  serve  him. 

Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself. 

The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  Withdrawn  from  the  Wicked 

Here  are  two  great  commandments.  We  are  under  obligation,  we 
are  in  debt  to  love  the  Lord  our  God  with  all  our  heart,  with  all  our  might, 
with  all  our  mind,  with  all  our  strength,  and  do  it  all  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  We  are  in  debt  and  under  obligation  to  love  our  neighbors,  and 
if  the  world  had  only  loved  its  neighbors,  it  would  not  be  torn  asunder 
as  it  is  today.  All  this  that  has  come  upon  it  is  because  of  its  wickedness, 
and  because  the  people  of  the  earth  violated  the  commandments  and  lost 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  when  I  say  lost  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  I  am 
not  speaking  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  They  never  had  the  Holy  Ghost.  But  the 
Lord  has  given  to  every  man  that  comes  into  this  world  the  guidance  of 
the  Spirit  of  Christ,  or  light  of  truth,  and  many  times  we  speak  of  it  as 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  in  many  of  the  revelations  it  is  spoken  of  as 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  This  Spirit  of  Christ  is  given  to  every  man  that 
comes  into  the  world. 

But  the  Lord  has  withdrawn  this  spirit  in  great  measure,  because  of 
the  wickedness  of  the  world.    The  Lord  has  said : 
-J 

\ 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


53 


I,  the  Lord,  am  angry  with  the  wicked ;  I  am  holding  my  Spirit  from  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth.  (D.  &  C.  63:32.) 

This  the  Lord  said  a  hundred  years  ago.  He  is  not  withholding 
the  Holy  Ghost  from  the  world,  because  they  never  had  it,  but  this  light 
of  truth,  this  guidance  which  comes  to  every  man,  which  would  lead  men 
unto  the  truth  if  they  would  only  hearken  to  it,  is  withdrawn  because  of 
their  wickedness. 

Now  I  will  return  to  what  I  started  to  read : 

Thou  shalt  not  steal ;  neither  commit  adultery,  nor  kill,  nor  do  anything 
like  unto  it. 

Thou  shalt  thank  the  Lord  thy  God  in  all  things. 

Thou  shalt  offer  a  sacrifice  unto  the  Lord  thy  God  in  righteousness,  even 
that  of  a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit. 

And  that  thou  mayest  more  fully  keep  thyself  unspotted  from  the  world, 
thou  shalt  go  to  the  house  of  prayer  and  offer  up  thy  sacraments  upon  my 
holy  day. 

That  is  another  obligation,  and  a  large  percentage  of  the  members 
of  the  Church  are  failing  to  pay  that  debt,  or  keep  that  obligation. 

Our  Obligation  To  Those  Who  Have  Died 

Now,  one  more  obligation  that  I  wish  to  speak  of,  in  conclusion.  We 
owe  an  obligation  not  only  to  the  living,  but  we  owe  an  obligation  to  the 
dead.  The  Lord  in  His  mercy  and  His  justice  grants  to  every  man  the 
opportunity  to  repent  and  to  receive  His  Gospel.  Millions  have  died 
without  that  privilege.  They  have  gone  into  the  spirit  world  not  know- 
ing Jesus  Christ,  without  an  opportunity  to  receive  the  remission  of  their 
sins.  We  owe  a  debt  to  them.  We  should  be  searching  out  the  records 
of  our  dead  and  be  preparing  them  that  we  might  go  into  the  temples  of 
the  Lord  and  there  perform  the  ordinances  for  their  salvation. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  said  this  is  the  greatest  responsibility  the  Lord 
has  placed  upon  us.  Now,  when  he  said  that  he  meant,  evidently,  the 
greatest  responsibility  individually. 

There  is  another  responsibility  just  as  great  which  belongs  to  us  col- 
lectively, or  as  quorums  of  the  priesthood  and  as  members  of  the  Church, 
and  that  is  as  I  have  already  stated,  to  preach  this  gospel  to  a  perverse 
and  wicked  generation. 

Now,  my  dear  brethren,  the  Lord  bless  you.  Let  us,  as  the  scriptures 
say,  "gird  up  our  loins,"  and  go  out  with  all  our  might  to  accomplish  the 
things  the  Lord  has  called  upon  us  to  accomplish,  keeping  His  command- 
ments, setting  the  example  before  all  men,  that  they  might  follow,  being 
humble,  being  true,  and  I  ask  it,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Lord,  Dismiss  Us  With  Thy 
Blessing" — Words  by  Walter  Shirley,  Music  by  Jean  Jacques  Rous- 
seau (L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  315). 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Day 

Elder  Wallace  W.  Johnson,  President  of  the  San  Diego  Stake  of- 
fered the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Friday  morning,  April  7,  at  10  o'clock. 

SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Friday  morning,  April  7,  at  10  o'clock. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  is  the  third  session  of  the  114th  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City. 

President  Grant  is  with  us  this  morning,  as  he  was  yesterday  after- 
noon. 

All  the  other  General  Authorities  are  here  as  they  were  sustained 
yesterday,  except  Brother  Rufus  K.  Hardy  who  is  detained  in  the  hos- 
pital.   

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "High  On  The  Mountain  Top" — 
Words  by  Joel  H.  Johnson,  Music  by  Ebenezer  Beesley  (L.D.S.  Hymns 
No.  131). 

Elder  Irvin  L.  Warnock,  President  of  the  Sevier  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

Singing  by  the  congregation,  "An  Angel  From  On  High" — Words 
by  Parley  P.  Pratt,  Music  by  John  Tullidge  (L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  131). 

ELDER  EZRA  T.  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  think  I  know  now,  brethren,  how  effectively  suspense  might  be 
used  as  a  tool  of  punishment.  [Laughter.] 

I  rejoice  with  you  in  the  opportunity  of  meeting  in  this  great  con- 
ference. I  was  made  happy  yesterday  in  the  appointment  of  Brother 
Mark  Petersen  to  fill  the  vacancy  in  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  with 
all  my  heart  I  sustain  him  and  pray  our  Father  to  bless  him,  and  bless  us 
all  in  our  respective  callings  in  the  priesthood.  < 

Increase  In  Juvenile  Delinquency 

I  have  been  greatly  concerned,  as  I  am  sure  many  of  you  have,  over 
certain  trends  that  are  in  evidence  in  this  great  land  of  ours,  which  tend 
to  strike  at  the  very  foundation  of  many  of  the  things  we  hold  dear.  I 


ELDER  EZRA  T.  BENSON 


55 


recognize  the  great  promises  that  have  been  made  to  this  land  of  Zion, 
tli rough  the  Book  of  Mormon  prophets  and  through  prophets  in  the  lat- 
ter days.  And  yet,  I  wonder  sometimes  if  we,  as  members  of  this  great 
land,  recognize  what  is  necessary  for  us  to  do  in  order  that  those  promises 
might  be  realized. 

I  am  sure  we  all  know  that  the  fulfillment  of  those  great  promises  is 
contingent  upon  our  worshiping  the  God  of  this  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ. 

I  would  like,  if  the  Lord  will  bless  me,  to  refer  to  one  of  the  trends 
which  has  caused  me  dee])  concern  since  we  last  met  in  conference  as- 
sembly. Tn  riding  across  the  great  plains  of  this  country,  en  route  from 
Washington,  D.  C,  to  the  conference,  T  read  a  letter  and  report  from  one 
of  our  great  friends  of  youth,  law  and  order  and  decency,  and  the  Ameri- 
can home,  Mr.  J.  Edgar  Hoover. 

I  was  astounded  to  find  that  the  trend  of  juvenile  delinquency  in  this 
great  land  has  reached  proportions  which  should  shock  all  of  us.  T  am 
going  to  refer,  if  I  may  this  morning,  to  some  of  the  figures  which  were 
presented  in  the  "Uniform  Crime  Report  for  the  United  States  and  its 
Possessions,  by  the  Federal  Bureau  of  Investigation  of  the  U.  S.  Depart- 
ment of  Justice,"  taken  from  the  Annual  Bulletin  for  1943. 

The  increases  in  crime  during  the  year  1943,  as  measured  by  arrests, 
are  as  follows : 

Boy  arrests,  under  18   :   23.4% 

Girl  arrests,  under  21   47.9% 

For  the  first  time  since  records  have  bee^n  kept,  age  seventeen  pre- 
dominated in  the  frequency  of  male  arrests.  For  the  first  time,  age  18 
predominated  in  the  f requency  of  female  arrests.  The  seriousness  of  the 
situation  is  more  clearly  seen  when  it  is  remembered  that  these  increases, 
particularly  in  female  arrests  in  1943,  are  in  addition  to  similar  increases 
in  1942.  Compared  with  1941,  the  arrests  of  girls  under  21  years  of  age 
has  increased  130.4  per  cent. 

Now,  I  recognize  that  these  statistics  are  subject  to  some  interpreta- 
tion. Because  of  the  lack  of  time  I  will  not  attempt  any  particular  in- 
terpretation, but  I  do  feel  that  they  are  indicative  of  a  serious  trend  which 
should  be  the  concern  of  every  true  American,  and  certainly  every  mem- 
ber holding  the  priesthood  in  this  Church.  Those  offenses  might  he 
broken  down  as  follows  : 

Tn  the  case  of  male  arrests  under  18,  arrests  for  rape,  39.8  percent  in- 
crease ;  robbery,  39  percent  increase ;  burglary,  27.7  percent  increase ;  auto 
theft.  23.4  percent. 

Increase  in  female  arrests  under  21  :  offenses  against  property,  30.1  per- 
cent increase;  miscellaneous  violations,  53.2  percent;  and  offenses  against 
common  decency,  such  as  drunkenness,  vagrancy,  disorderly  conduct,  prosti- 
tution, commercial  vice,  and  other  sex  crimes,  such  as  adultery  and  fornica- 
tion, show  an  increase  of  56.9  percent. 

Mr.  Hoover,  in  commenting  upon  this  serious  and  alarming  situa- 
tion, made  the  following  comment: 

This  country  is  in  deadly  peril.  We  can  win  this  war  and  still  lose  freedom 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  7  Second  Day 

for  all  in  America ;  for  the  creeping  rot  of  moral  disintegration  is  eating 
into  the  nation.  I  am  not  easily  shocked  or  easily  alarmed,  but  today,  like 
thousands  of  others,  I  am  both  shocked  and  alarmed. 

The  arrests  of  teen-age  boys  and  girls  all  over  the  country  are  startling. 
Some  of  the  crimes  youngsters  are  committing  are  almost  unspeakable. 
Prostitution,  murder,  rape,  these  are  ugly  words,  but  it  is  an  ugly  situation. 
If  we  are  to  correct  it  we  must  face  it. 

A  recent  survey  of  Christian  ministers  in  this  land  indicates  that 
sixty-five  percent  of  the  delinquency  is  due  to  broken  homes.  Comment- 
ing on  this  situation,  Mr.  Hoover  continues : 

America's  youth,  indicted  by  public  opinion  as  reckless  and  carefree,  is 
blamed  for  these  misdeeds,  but  the  real  fault  lies  elsewhere.  Before  any 
youth  has  broken  the  law,  some  adult  has  committed  a  more  serious  crime. 
Driven  by  lust  for  money  or  enslaved  by  pleasure,  the  adult  generation  for- 
gets that  the  most  solemn  obligation  any  person  can  assume  in  the  eyes  of 
God  and  men  is  to  guide  and  direct  the  child  along  proper  paths.  To  place 
anything  ahead  of  that  responsibility  is  akin  to  criminal  negligence. 

And  then  he  comments  on  what  he  calls  the  "crack-pot  theory"  : 

This  is  the  kind  of  "crack-pot  theory"  which  has  laid  the  groundwork  for 
our  present  surge  of  teen-age  trouble.  For  years  we  have  listened  to  some 
quack  theorists  and  pseudo-psychologists  who  have  preached  that  disci- 
pline and  control  were  bad  for  children,  that  they  should  be  left  uninhibited 
to  work  out  their  own  life's  pattern  and  their  own  self-discipline.  But  you 
never  acquire  self-discipline  if  you  never  learn  what  discipline  is.  Neither 
can  life's  problems  be  worked  out  without  experience  which  can  be  secured 
only  through  hard  knocks  or  by  guidance  from  the  experience  of  others. 

Now,  we  are  reaping  the  harvest.  Fathers  have  gone  to  war  or  are 
working  long  hours ;  many  mothers,  too,  are  working  on  day  or  night  shift. 
Youngsters  are  left  to  their  own  devices,  and  the  tragic  fallacy  of  the  theory 
that  self-discipline  just  grows  is  being  demonstrated  day  by  day. 

Plea  of  A  Young  Soldier  for  Church  Membership 

Following  a  stake  conference  a  few  months  ago,  a  young  man  in  uni- 
form came  up  to  me  and  asked  for  an  opportunity  to  talk  for  awhile.  This 
was  his  story:  He  said:  "I  am  a  member  of  a  certain  camp  near  Wash- 
ington, D.  C.  I  have  been  attending  the  services  held  there  by  the  Mor- 
mon boys,  but,"  he  said,  "I  haven't  been  able  to  participate.  I  don't  hold 
the  priesthood.  Isn't  there  something  that  can  be  done  so  that  I  can  get 
the  priesthood  and  participate  in  the  administration  of  the  sacrament  and 
the  exercises  among  the  Mormon  boys?" 

As  we  chatted  for  awhile,  I  learned  that  he  had  not  only  been  de- 
prived of  the  priesthood,  but  had  never  been  baptized.  Yet  he  told  me 
of  his  home  town  here  in  Utah,  a  Mormon  community,  of  his  father  and 
mother  both  members  of  the  Church,  his  father  inactive,  his  mother 
somewhat  more  active.  But  they  had  accepted  this  "crack-pot  philos- 
ophy" that  they  would  let  the  boy  grow  up  and  choose  for  himself.  Then 
he  pleaded  with  me  that  some  means  might  be  provided  that  he  could 
come  into  membership  in  the  Church  and  enjoy  the  blessings  which  he 
saw  the  other  Mormon  boys  enjoying. 


ELDER  EZRA  T.  BENSON 


57 


The  Responsibility  of  Parents 

I  call  your  attention,  my  brethren,  to  the  revelations  given  by  the 
Lord  with  reference  to  the  responsibility  of  parents  to  train  their  chil- 
dren, to  teach  them  the  fundamental  principles  of  the  gospel,  to  teach 
them  to  pray  and  that  parents  who  fail  to  accept  and  discharge  this  obli- 
gation will  have  the  sin  rest  upon  them. 

Read  what  the  Lord  says  in  the  68th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants.  In  the  very  early  days  of  the  Church,  the  Lord  saw  fit  to 
chastise  some  of  the  leading  brethren  of  the  Church  for  their  failure  tp 
train  their  children,  to  teach  them  correct  principles,  to  teach  them  to 
pray,  and  they  were  admonished  to  put  their  own  houses  in  order. 

A  Survey  Among  Seminary  Students 

I  have  been  very  much  impressed  with  a  recent  survey  made  by  our 
own  Church  department  of  education  among  the  seminary  students  of 
this  Church,  our  boys  and  girls.  An  attempt  was  made  in  this  survey  to 
find  out  what  the  youth  of  the  Church  consider  are  the  important  things 
which  contribute  to  spirituality  and  a  moral  life.  I  am  sure  it  will  be  a 
surprise  to  some  to  find  that  among  the  many  things  they  listed — and 
apparently  they  did  some  very  serious  thinking  on  the  matter — they  listed 
prayer  in  the  home.  That  simple  thing,  family  prayers,  devotion,  which 
was  so  common  in  this  great  land  a  generation  or  so  ago,  but  is  found  all 
too  infrequently  now,  even  in  the  homes  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

Brethren,  I  encourage  you,  as  fathers  and  as  leaders,  to  see  to  it 
that  every  day  we  have  a  period  of  devotion  in  the  home,  if  for  no  other 
reason  than  that  it  might  influence  the  lives  of  our  boys  and  girls. 

They  also  listed  as  influences  which  contribute  to  spirituality,  par- 
ents who  were  spiritual  and  set  proper  examples  to  their  children,  loyalty 
of  parents  to  Church  leaders,  attendance  at  Church  by  children  with  par- 
ents, temple  marriage — discussion  of  temple  marriage  in  the  home — love 
and  kindness,  good  wholesome  literature. 

They  were  also  asked  to  list  the  negative  influences  which  tend  to 
tear  down  spirituality  and  morality,  and  they  listed,  of  course,  lack  of 
prayer  and  spirituality  in  the  home,  back-biting  and  criticism  of  Church 
leaders,  lack  of  Church  attendance  by  parents,  and  such  anti-spiritual 
influences  as  smoking,  drinking,  card  playing,  profanity,  hate,  greed,  dis- 
honesty, and  so  forth. 

These  are  our  boys  and  girls  who  have  thus  spoken.  They  recognize 
what  is  necessary  in  order  to  provide  the  environment  which  will  produce 
strong  characters,  morally  and  spiritually.  I  hope  that  as  leaders  in  Zion 
we  will  do  everything  within  our  power  to  provide  that  environment  for 
the  youth  of  this  great  Church.  I  have  confidence  in  the  youth  of  Zion, 
I  recognize,  my  brethren,  the  serious  and  crucial  period  through  which 
the  youth  of  Zion  are  passing,  and  I  sincerely  pray  that  we  will  throw 
around  them  every  safeguard  that  is  possible,  in  order  that  they  can  meet 
the  temptations  and  overcome  them. 


58 

Friday.  April  7 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


Interview  With  A  Chief  Executive 

While  holding  a  series  of  meetings  in  the  eastern  part  of  the  United 
States  a  few  weeks  ago,  I  was  invited  by  the  chief  executive  of  one  of 
the  great  states  to  visit  his  office.  I  had  no  idea  what  he  wanted  to  dis- 
cuss, but  as  we  sat  there,  it  soon  became  clear  that  he  was  concerned  with 
the  problems  of  youth,  and  he  wanted  to  know  three  things  about  the 
Mormon  Church :  First  of  all,  our  program  of  activity  for  youth ;  sec- 
ondly, our  great  missionary  system.  He  was  not  so  much  concerned 
about  the  proselyting  program  of  the  Church,  but  what  .that  missionary 
system  did  to  build  character  in  young  men ;  and,  thirdly,  the  great  Wel- 
fare program  of  the  Church,  which  tends  to  restore  and  enjoin  thrift, 
work,  and  such  virtues  that  have  built  this  great  country. 

As  we  sat  there  discussing  these  problems,  the  question  of  family 
prayer  came  up,  and  he  told  of  his  experience  as  a  boy  in  his  own  home, 
where  he  knelt  in  devotion  each  day,  and  then  he  told  about  visiting  sev- 
eral of  the  homes  of  his  friends  recently,  where  there  was  no  devotion 
in  the  home.  He  had  great  fear  for  the  future  of  the  youth  of  this  great 
land  because  of  the  lack  of  spirituality  in  the  home. 

Then  I  had  the  great  pleasure  of  telling  him  something  of  our  pro- 
gram, and  made  reference  to  a  Gold  and  Green  ball  which  had  just  been 
held  in  one  of  the  great  hotels  in  Washington,  where  six  to  eight  hundred 
young  men  and  women  had  enjoyed  themselves  in  an  evening  of  sociabil- 
ity. There  were  no  cigarets,  no  liquor,  and  the  party  was  opened  and 
closed  with  prayer.  I  said,  "Mr.  Governor,  would  you  believe  that  such 
a  thing  could  happen  ?" 

He  said :  "I  wish  it  were  more  common.  It  is  almost  impossible 
for  me  to  believe  it,  in  view  of  what  I  know  of  conditions  that  are  facing 
the  youth  of  this  land,  and  what  is  happening  in  my  own  state." 

I  told  him  that  was  only  typical  of  parties  held  throughout  the 
Church,  in  147  stakes. 

The  Standards  of  the  Church  A  Recommendation 
For  Our  Youth 

I  am  convinced,  my  brethren  of  the  priesthood,  that  we  have  in  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  in  the  standards  of  Mormonism,  an  answer  to  this 
upward  trend  in  juvenile  delinquency,  if  we  will  only  make  our  programs 
effective,  if  we  will  only  make  them  work. 

Now,  as  never  before,  the  youth  of  this  Church  need  the  program 
of  the  Church.  They  cannot  afford  to  be  without  it.  They  need  the 
companionship  of  a  good  man  and  a  good  woman,  and  I  hope,  as  officers 
and  as  fathers,  we  will  provide  that  companionship,  that  we  will  put  our 
arms  around  them  and  sustain  them,  help  them  and  direct  them  during 
this  very  crucial  period. 

To  the  youth  of  the  Church  I  would  like  to  say  this  :  I  know  beyond 
the  shadow  of  a  doubt  that  no  young  man  or  woman  in  this  Church  can 
afford  to  disregard  the  standards  and  teachings  of  the  Church.   Even  if 


ELDER  EZRA  T.  BENSON 


[hey  are  looking  at  it  only  from  their  personal  advancement  in  the  ma- 
terial world,  it  pays  to  live  the  standards  of  Mormonism.  I  have  seen 
it  demonstrated,  time  and  time  again,  particularly  during  the  last  five 
years  that  I  have  resided  in  the  nation's  capital. 

I  know  there  is  a  lot  of  wickedness  in  the  world,  as  was  pointed  out 
by  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  yesterday,  but  I  testify  that  in  spite  of 
that  wickedness,  the  world  is  yet  willing  to  pay  for  the  services  of  young 
men  and  women  who  remain  true  to  the  standards  of  this  Church. 

I  could  give  you' illustration  after  illustration  that  will  demonstrate 
that  fact.  Only  a  few  days  ago  a  man  called  me  in  the  early  morning, 
on  the  telephone,  and  asked  if  I  would  have  lunch  with  him  that  day.  I 
accepted,  and  a  few  hours  later  we  faced  each  other  across  the  luncheon 
table  in  one  of  the  hotels,  and  he  said :  "I  presume  you  are  curious  to 
know  why  I  invited  you  here  ?"   I  said  :  "Yes,  I  am." 

He  said :  "I  represent  one  of  the  great  hotels  of  the  middle  west." 
It  developed  that  he  represented  probably  the  greatest  hotel,  certainly  the 
largest,  in  the  middle  west. 

He  said :  "In  a  group  of  friends  in  Chicago  the  other  day,  I  was  tell- 
ing them  that  I  had  the  responsibility  of  going  to  Washington  to  open  a 
Washington  office  for  our  organization,  and,"  he  said,  "I  began  to  out- 
line the  kind  of  man  I  would  like  to  represent  us  in  the  nation's  capital." 

Then  he  said :  "After  I  had  enumerated  his  qualifications,  one  of  the 
men  spoke  up  and  said,  'Well,  what  you  want  is  a  Mormon  Missionary.'  " 

And  then  he  said :  "When  I  got  in  the  nation's  capital,  I  inquired 
who  was  the  representative  of  your  Church  here,  and  someone  referred 
me  to  you.   That  is  why  I  have  invited  you." 

Then  he  began  to  enumerate  the  things  he  wanted  in  this  representa- 
tive. First  of  all,  he  must  be  morally  clean.  His  integrity  must  be  beyond 
question.  He  must  not  tamper  with  alcoholic  beverages.  He  would  pre- 
fer a  man  who  did  not  even  use  tobacco.  Then  he  went  on  and  recited, 
almost  entirely,  the  standards  of  this  people,  then  asked  me  if  I  could 
suggest  a  young  man  that  would  meet  those  requirements. 

I  said :  "My  good  friend,  I  could  give  you  the  names  of  twenty  or 
thirty  that  would  meet  every  one  of  those  requirements,  so  far  as  I  have 
been  able  to  determine." 

Now,  I  mention  this  simply  to  indicate  to  the  youth  of  Zion  that  if 
they  are  looking  only  to  their  material  advancement,  if  they  are  thinking 
only  of  getting  ahead  in  the  material  world,  financially,  in  the  business 
field,  it  pays  to  maintain  the  standards  of  Mormonism.  And  if  you  look 
to  the  Great  Beyond,  and  consider  your  eternal  happiness  and  exaltation, 
it  pays  time  and  time  again  to  maintain  the  standards  of  the  Church. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us.  May  he  bless  us  as  leaders  in  Zion,  that  we 
may  be  able  to  inspire  the  youth  of  the  land  to  righteous  living,  that  they 
will  recognize  the  importance  of  maintaining  the  standards  of  the  Church, 
and  receive  the  promised  blessings  which  come  from  adherence  to  those 
standards,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen, 


60  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Day 

ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

President  Grant  and  brethren :  I  join  with  Elder  Benson  and  other 
brethren  who  have  spoken  in  expressing  appreciation  for  the  selection  of 
Brother  Mark  Petersen  as  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  Mark 
is  one  of  the  sweetest  characters  that  I  have  ever  met — kind,  generous, 
tolerant,  but  fearless  in  the  defense  of  right.  I  know  you  brethren  who 
have  not  met  him  will  love  him  when  you  do  meet  him,  and  the  better 
acquainted  you  become  the  more  you  will  love  him. 

Report  of  Conditions  In  Europe 

I  am  very  pleased  to  have  this  opportunity  of  again  reporting  briefly 
the  conditions  in  the  European  missions.  Our  members,  as  far  as  we 
are  able  to  hear  from  them,  are  still  carrying  on.  We  continue  to  receive 
reports  from  the  Palestine-Assyrian  Mission;  they  are  at  least  four 
months  on  the  way,  but  they  arrive.  The  last  reports  were  received  last 
Monday,  April  3,  and  they  were  mailed  November  30,  1943.  Their 
Priesthood  and  sacrament  and  Relief  Society  meetings  and  also  Sunday 
Schools  are  held  as  usual. 

We  also  get  reports  regularly  from  the  French-Swiss  district.  On 
the  20th  of  each  month  the  books  are  closed  and  before  the  30th,  the  re- 
ports are  made  out  and  mailed.  The  last  report  was  that  of  December 
1943.  It  stated  that  they  had  just  held  a  district  conference  in  LaChaux- 
du-Fonds,  one  of  the  most  successful  ever  held.  They  began  Saturday 
night  previous  to  the  regular  sessions  of  the  conference,  with  a  concert. 
The  hall  was  too  small  for  the  large  attendance.  After  the  preliminary 
part  of  the  program  they  had  refreshments.  One  of  the  sentences  in  that 
report,  about  the  refreshments  is  rather  revealing;  it  states,  'We  were 
delighted  to  be  served  with  some  real  syrup."  God  bless  them!  If  we 
only  knew  the  conditions  that  exist  there,  brethren,  we  would  be  more 
willing  to  follow  instructions  to  grow  and  store  more. 

The  report  also  shows  that  three  other  successful  conferences  have 
been  held;  that  one  new  hall  has  been  rented  and  some  of  the  others 
cleaned  and  remodeled ;  there  have  been  ten  baptisms  during  the  year. 

We  were  also  delighted  to  receive  a  brief  report  from  our  members 
in  Finland.  This  is  the  first  time  for  months  that  we  have  heard  anything 
from  them.   It  said : 

Through  the  grace  of  God,  our  men  called  to  the  colors  have  been  pro- 
tected. In  spite  of  the  war,  fast  meetings  have  been  held  regularly,  and  a 
small  Sunday  School  is  sustained  in  the  Larsmo  Branch,  which  is  attended 
by  children,  almost  entirely,  of  non-members. 

These  brethren  and  sisters  are  paying  their  tithing,  although  they 
cannot  send  the  money  out  of  Finland ;  so  they  have  accumulated  quite  a 
sum;  and  it  is  recommended  by  the  presiding  elder  that  some  of  the 
money  be  used  for  the  purchase  of  a  building  lot  for  a  chapel. 

We  have  also  heard  from  the  Danish  Mission.  Two  sheets  of  their 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  MCKAY 


61 


publication,  Skandinaviens  Stjerne,  were  mailed  from  Sweden,  and  I 
quote  as  follows : 

A  bright  moment  in  1943  was  the  reopening  of  the  Frederikshavn  Branch, 
where  the  Saints  have  exhibited  a  zeal  and  joy  for  the  Gospel  that  is  inspir- 
ational. This,  the  most  northern  branch  in  Denmark,  should  have  splen- 
did future  possibilities  for  success,  and  to  other  branches  and  members  be 
an  excellent  example  to  pattern  after.  The  Saints  in  that  city  do  not  hesi- 
tate to  walk  eight  and  ten  miles  to  attend  a  meeting. 

During  the  past  year  we  came  in  singular  manner  in  contact  with  a  for- 
mer missionary,  Elder  Homer  P.  Anderson,  who  at  present  is  in  German 
captivity.  Many  will  remember  Brother  Anderson  from  his  labors  in 
Esbjerg  and  Copenhagen.  He  sends  his  greetings  to  everyone  individually 
and  writes  :  "I  am  praying  for  the  Saints."  Do  not  let  us  forget  him,  either, 
in  our  prayers. 

Through  the  Women's  Relief  Society,  we  have  rejoiced  in  being  able  to 
assist  our  Norwegian  brethren  and  sisters  who  were  in  need.  To  judge  by 
the  letters  we  have  received,  the  provisions  we  have  been  able  to  send  to 
them  have  been  the  means  to  relieve  them  of  real  want. 

All  the  Saints  in  Denmark  took  this  merciful  act  to  heart,  and  had  it  been 
in  their  power  to  do  so,  they  would  have  done  it  more  effectively. 

The  statistical  report,  for  the  year  1943,  December  not  included, 
shows :  baptisms  performed,  21 ;  children  blessed,  16 ;  members  who  died, 
12;  promoted  in  the  Priesthood,  24;  marriages,  3. 

All  the  meetings  must  be  held  in  the  daytime,  as  the  people  are  not 
permitted  to  be  out  after  dark. 

From  the  Swedish  Mission  we  get  reports  regularly  as  usual,  al- 
though they,  as  all  other  reports,  are  censored.  Quoting  from  the  last 
letter  received  March  27,  dated  January  14 : 

We  celebrated  our  fifth  Christmas  with  thankful  feelings  toward  God  in 
heaven.  Our  cities  are  again  immersed  in  light ;  provisions  and  other  com- 
modities are  exhibited  in  store  windows,  and  the  rationing  of  commodities 
has  to  some  extent  improved  in  defiance  of  the  prolongation  of  the  war. 

There  are  at  present  in  this  land  about  35,000  fugitives  of  different  nation- 
alities, with  whom  we  are  sharing  our  bread,  and  we  know  that  the  Lord 
blesses  our  government  for  our  charities  which  the  nation  as  a  whole  has 
contributed.  Of  course,  a  certain  amount  of  inflation  has  been  felt,  and 
there  are,  without  doubt,  many  difficulties  for  some  of  our  citizens  to  get 
debits  and  credits  to  balance. 

This  year  we  have  baptized  nineteen  people,  ordained  twenty-five  to  the 
Priesthood,  and  blessed  twenty-one  children,  from  all  of  which  we  see  that 
the  Lord  has  been  good  to  us.  We  are  so  grateful  for  the  peace,  love  and 
unity  that  prevails.  We  do  thank  the  Lord  for  the  spiritual  help  which  has 
been  manifest  in  actions.  For  instance,  tithing  shows  a  very  substantial 
increase  each  year  since  1939,  and  the  year  1943  has  been  especially  good. 

From  the  British  Mission  the  last  letter,  received  March  18  and 
mailed  February  24,  states : 

The  Church  News  and  The  Improvement  Era,  and  other  magazines  are 
coming  in  fairly  regularly,  and  we  thank  you  for  the  material  we  receive. 
We  have  a  permit  now  to  send  some  Church  literature  to  our  members  of 
the  Church  who  are  prisoners  of  war.  The  pocket  edition  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon  and  The  Principles  of  the  Gospel  have  been  distributed  to  all  serv- 
ice members  with  whom  we  can  possibly  get  into  contact,  that  is,  those  who 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Day 

have  not  received  the  books  direct  from  Zion.   Altogether  about  600  pack- 
ets have  been  distributed. 

We  have  held  altogether  three  L.D.S.  service  men's  conferences,  one  in 
London,  one  in  Wigan,  and  the  last  one  in  Birmingham,  at  which  there  were 
about  200  service  men  and  approximately  that  number  of  our  local  mem- 
bers, chiefly  young  people,  present.  It  was  a  grand  affair.  We  began  on 
Saturday  afternoon  with  a  basketball  game  between  two  L.D.S.  teams  from 
the  north  of  England.  It  was  a  lively  game,  attended  by  about  300  people. 
A  sociable,  get-acquainted  hour  was  the  next  item  on  the  program.  Then 
a  grand  concert  followed,  and  the  evening  concluded  with  our  Gold  and 
Green  Ball. 

Sunday  was  devoted  to  the  L.D.S.  service  men's  conference,  and  the  chapel 
was  packed  to  capacity.  We  are  planning  another  missionwide  service 
men's  conference  to  be  held  sometime  in  May 

In  various  parts  of  the  country  the  brethren  in  the  forces  are  taking 
advantage  of  holding  services,  Mutual  classes  and  religious  discussions. 
There  are  at  least  a  dozen  places  where  our  brethren  are  doing  this  very 
valued  work. 


Advice  to  Members  Upon  Withdrawal  of  Missionaries 

After  the  699  missionaries  had  been  evacuated  from  the  twelve  mis- 
sions in  the  European  group,  shortly  after  the  beginning  of  this  world 
war,  our  members  naturally  were  somewhat  discouraged,  downhearted 
and  blue.  We  encouraged  them  as  best  we  could,  advised  them  as  we 
advise  our  new  missionaries,  especially  those  who  are  somewhat  home- 
sick, and  perhaps  lovesick,  that  the  best  tonic,  the  best  remedy  for  such 
sickness  and  for  the  blues  is  a  gospel  conversation.  It  is  also  a  good  rem- 
edy for  worry.  I  think  it  is  really  as  good — and  that  is  saying  something 
for  me — as  a  fishing  trip.  You  can  forget  your  worries  through  a  Gospel 
conversation. 

We  also  suggested  to  our  members  this  motto,  or  slogan,  as  we  called 
it :  "Every  member  a  missionary."  From  the  reports  and  letters,  I  am 
sure  that  most  of  our  members  are  living  up  to  that  motto.  I  would  sug- 
gest, if  I  may,  that  slogan  to  you  fine  mission  presidents  who  are  here 
representing  the  seventeen  missions  in  the  North  American  group.  You 
are  losing  most  of  your  missionaries;  they  are  being  "evacuated"  or 
transferred  to  the  service  of  our  country,  and  I  am  sure  that  the  mem- 
bers, if  they  would  follow  this  motto,  could  carry  on  the  work.  "Every 
member  a  missionary." 

I  know  every  service  man  is  a  missionary.  God  bless  them.  I  was 
delighted  with  President  Grant's  message  to  our  service  men.  They  are 
preaching  the  Gospel,  and  in  the  most  effective  way,  as  President  Grant 
stated,  by  their  example.  People  generally,  and  especially  young  people, 
would  rather  at  any  time  see  a  sermon  than  hear  one. 

Example  Better  Than  Preaching 

May  I  suggest,  too,  brethren,  that  we  have  an  opportunity  here  at 
home,  by  our  example,  to  preach  the  Gospel.  There  are  thousands  of 
strangers  in  our  midst,  and  if  we  would  keep  in  mind  always  the  first  part 
of  the  thirteenth  Article  of  Faith :  "We  believe  in  being  honest,  true, 


\ 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  ISRAELSON 


63 


chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in  doing  good  to  all  men,"  and  to  so  live 
that  it  could  be  said  of  all  of  us  who  are  here  this  morning,  and  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  generally,  not  that  we  believe  only,  but  that  we  are  honest,  we 
are  true,  we  are  chaste,  we  arc  benevolent,  we  are  virtuous  and  we  are 
doing  good  to  all  men,  it  would  not  matter  so  much  then  if  we  did  not 
have  so  many  missionaries  in  the  field,  such  an  example  would  be  much 
more  effective  than  all  our  preaching. 

May  our  Father  in  J  leaven  give  us  the  desire,  the  will-power;  the 
courage  and  the  faith  to  so  live  and  to  follow  His  slogan,  His  admoni- 
tion :  ''Let  your  light  so  shine  before  men,  that  they  may  see  your  good 
works,  and  glorify  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven,"  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  ISRAELSON 

Former  President  of  the  Norwegion  Mission 

Brother  Benson  mentioned  the  suspense  he  had  been  under.  May 
I  say  that  since  returning  from  the  Norwegian  Mission  in  December  of 
1939,  I  too  have  experienced  some  of  the  feelings  mentioned  by  him. 

I  am  happy  today  to  meet  with  you,  my  brethren,  and  to  report  brief- 
ly my  experiences  in  that  far-off  land  of  the  midnight  sun. 

In  July  of  '39,  I  received  a  telephone  message  from  President  McKay 
that  he  would  like  me  and  my  good  wife  to  meet  with  the  First  Presi- 
dency, that  a  vacancy  was  to  be  filled  in  the  presidency  of  the  Norwegian 
Mission.  We  came  to  Salt  Lake  and  were  very  happy  to  accept  this  call. 
In  August  we  attended  the  Mission  School,  and  had  some  very  fine,  in- 
spirational experiences  with  the  missionaries  there,  ready  to  depart  for 
the  mission  field. 

President  Colton  received  the  word  early  in  September  that  those 
missionaries  who  had  been  called  to  the  European  countries  would  have 
to  be  transferred  to  other  missions,  war  had  broken  out,  and  they  would 
be  unable  to  go  to  the  missions  to  which  they  were  called.  Some  were 
to  have  gone  to  Scandinavia,  and  they  expressed  real  disappointment 
that  they  had  to  be  assigned  to  other  mission  fields. 

We  were  scheduled  to  sail  on  the  steamship  "Manhattan,"  to  an 
English  port.  That  had  to  be  cancelled  and  passage  secured  on  a  Nor- 
wegian steamer,  sailing  from'  New  York  direct  to  Norway,  by  way  of  the 
northern  route. 

In  going  to  Norway  we  passed  through  the  British  blockade,  landed 
in  Bergen,  Norway,  and  traveled  by  rail  from  there  to  the  capital  city 
of  Oslo. 

President  A.  Richard  Peterson  and  his  wife  were  at  the  railroad 
station  to  meet  us,  and  then  for  the  first  time  we  learned  that  all  the 
missionaries  had  been  called  out  of  Norway.  He  said :  "I  feel  sorry  for 
you,  President  Israelson,  to  be  called  here  to  preside  over  a  mission  and 
having  no  missionaries." 

Some  forty  of  them  had  left  and  others  were  ready  to  sail  the  fol- 
lowing Wednesday. 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  7  Second  Day 

As  we  arrived  at  the  mission  home,  they  were  holding  an  M.I.A.  meet- 
ing, and  a  testimonial  for  the  missionaries  who  were  still  there.  We  had 
the  opportunity  of  meeting  some  acquaintances  and  of  speaking  to  many 
others.  President  Peterson  and  his  wife  left  with  that  company  of  mis- 
sionaries the  following  Wednesday. 

Brother  Milton  Sanders  was  appointed  mission  secretary,  and  he 
was  the  only  one  remaining  with  us.  We  soon  learned  of  the  condition 
in  the  various  branches  of  the  mission,  and  we  had  letters  from  some  of 
them  urging  that  we  come  and  help  them  in  the  reorganization  of  the 
branch,  the  Relief  Society,  and  the  M.I.A.  Brother  Sanders  thought  it 
would  be  well,  before  winter  set  in,  to  go  to  the  far  north. 

On  Armistice  Day,  November  11,  1939,  we  visited  the  beautiful  city 
of  Narvik  in  the  far-off  land  of  the  midnight  sun.  There  we  set  in  order 
the  organization,  ordained  some  to  the  Priesthood,  reorganized  the 
branch,  and  gave  them  what  encouragement  we  could.  They,  of  course, 
had  well  founded  fears  of  what  was  to  follow,  because  the  missionaries 
were  taken  out  of  that  branch  very  hurriedly. 

You  may  remember  that  Narvik  was  one  of  the  first  cities  attacked 
by  the  Germans.  They  bombarded  that  city  until  scarcely  a  building  re- 
mained. This  city  is  the  port  through  which  thousands  of  tons  of  valu- 
able Swedish  ore  has  been  shipped  to  Germany. 

Then  we  visited  the  district  of  Trondhjem,  became  acquainted  with 
conditions  there,  and  gave  what  assistance  we  could  to  the  Saints.  They, 
too,  were  very  much  upset  because  of  the  loss  of  the  missionaries  from 
Zion. 

A  short  time  later  we  visited  the  city  of  Bergen,  and  attended  a  con- 
ference there.  We  found  the  Saints  very  much  interested,  and  continu- 
ing the  work  in  spite  of  the  handicaps  that  they  had  to  work  under.  Some 
of  our  leaders  had  already  been  called  into  military  service. 

Those  were  the  conditions  that  we  met,  brethren,  in  that  far-off 
land,  with  a  Latter-day  Saint  population  of  about  1,800.  We  did  all  we 
could,  in  the  few  months  we  were  permitted  to  remain  there,  to  give 
encouragement  to  the  Saints  in  all  the  branches  that  we  were  permitted 
to  visit. 

About  forty  years  ago,  as  a  boy  in  my  teens,  I  received  a  call  from 
"Box  B,"  to  fill  a  mission  in  Scandinavia.  I  was  very  hopeful,  of  course, 
that  the  call  would  be  to  Norway,  as  that  was  the  land  of  the  birth  of  my 
father.  I  thank  the  Lord  for  this  great  missionary  system.  Over  eighty 
years  ago  two  humble  Mormon  missionaries  visited  a  little  fishing  village 
in  the  extreme  northern  part  of  the  country,  obtained  permission  to  hold 
services  in  the  schoolhouse,  which  was  controlled  by  the  Lutheran 
church,  and  my  grandfather  was  one  who  attended  that  service. 

When  he  came  home  that  evening,  he  remarked  to  his  wife :  "I  have 
heard  the  true  voice  of  the  Lord.  I  have  listened  to  the  authorized 
servants  of  God.  They  have  spoken  under  the  power  of  the  priesthood ; 
they  have  described  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
which  has  been  restored  in  the  United  States.  They  have  apostles,  proph- 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  ISRAELS  ON 


65 


ets,  teachers,  evangelists,  etc.  That  is  the  church  I  have  been  praying 
for  these  many  years.   I  am  going  to  become  a  member." 

He  was  one  of  the  first  men  beyond  the  Arctic  Circle  to  be  baptized 
a  member  of  the  Mormon  Church.  The  missionary  officiating  was  Niels 
J.  Hartvigsen. 

He  soon  made  arrangements  to  bring  his  family  to  America.  So  my 
father,  as  a  very  small  boy,  came  with  his  parents  to  America  by  sailing 
vessel  in  the  early  '60's,  settling  in  Cache  Valley. 

In  1905  I  filled  my  first  mission  to  that  land,  and  was  permitted  at 
that  time  to  visit  the  home  of  my  father,  meeting  many  of  his  relatives. 
That  little  fishing  village  has  contributed  more  converts,  in  proportion 
to  population,  to  the  Latter-day  Saint  Church  than  any  city  in  Norway, 
so  we  are  told  by  the  records. 

I  became  particularly  interested,  on  this  last  mission,  in  the  genea- 
logical work.  I  found  in  the  mission  office  hundreds  of  pedigree  charts 
and  family  group  sheets.  I  gathered  them  all  carefully  together,  and 
thought  the  wisest,  best  thing  to  do  was  to  bring  them  to  our  Genealogical 
Society  in  Salt  Lake  City.  So  I  purchased  a  suitcase  and  filled  that  suit- 
case with  thousands  of  names  .  Yesterday  I  asked  Brother  Kirkham  if 
those  names  were  indexed  and  available  now  for  Temple  work.  He  said 
he  would  make  an  investigation. 

I  found  many  others  who  have  done  a  great  deal  of  research  work, 
but  rather  than  send  their  records  to  Zion,  they  hope  the  time  will  come 
when  they  can  bring  them,  because  they  want  the  opportunity  themselves 
of  officiating  for  their  relatives. 

While  I  was  on  my  first  mission  I  had  the  privilege  of  laboring  with 
Sister  Widtsoe,  mother  of  Apostle  John  A.  Widtsoe.  She  and  her  sister 
were  in  Trondhjem  gathering  genealogical  information  regarding  their 
ancestry.  I  found  her  to  be  a  very  wonderful  missionary,  always  anxious 
to  bear  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  great  latter-day  work. 

I  received  a  great  deal  of  pleasure  in  reading  the  book  written  by 
Dr.  Widtsoe,  "Caught  in  the  Gospel  Net,"  and  I  recommend  that  book 
to  all  our  young  people,  because  it  shows  the  great  faith  of  that  lady 
when  she  received  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  great  latter-day 
work. 

Another  experience  I  should  like  to  relate.  A  conference  was  being 
held  in  Oslo,  Norway,  and  two  German  soldiers,  members  of  our  Church 
— I  think  they  held  the  Priesthood — were  in  a  camp  about  two  hundred 
miles  distant.  They  received  furloughs  to  come  into  Oslo  to  attend  this 
conference.  When  they  came  there,  they  introduced  themselves  to  the 
presiding  elder,  who  after  securing  an  interpreter  who  was  familiar  with 
the  German  language,  asked  both  of  those  elders  to  speak  to  the  congre- 
gation. They  bore  very  humble  and  fervent  testimonies  of  the  divinity 
of  this  work,  and  said  they  hoped  the  time  would  soon  come  when  they 
could  pursue  their  work  in  life  and  accomplish  the  things  they  would 
like  to  do. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us,  that  we  may  appreciate  our  responsibili- 
ties in  this  very  critical  period  of  our  world's  history.    Brother  Benson 


3 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Day 

has  outlined  one  of  the  biggest  jobs,  I  think,  we  have, — the  problem  of 
youth.    I  am  happy  to  have  been  associated  for  twenty-five  years  with 
the  Boy  Scout  movement  and  to  have  seen  the  fruits  of  our  efforts  there. 
May  God  bless  you  all,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


The  congregation  sang  "Come,  O  Thou  King  of  Kings" — Words  by 
Parley  P.  Pratt  (L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  158). 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  am  very  happy  to  be  with  you  here  today,  my  brethren,  and  to 
bring  you  the  good  news  that  President  Hardy  of  our  Council  is  reported 
better  today  and  continually  improving,  and  to  elicit  upon  his  behalf  your 
faith  and  prayers  that  his  recovery  may  be  rapid  and  complete. 

As  I  came  into  the  building,  I  met  a  very  dear  brother  who  has  suf- 
fered something  similarly  to  him,  for  a  number  of  years,  who  reports 
now  that  he  has  been  completely  healed  through  the  blessings  of  the  Lord. 
We  know  that  it  is  possible,  and  if  we  unite  our  prayers  in  behalf  of 
President  Hardy  we  feel  sure  that  he  can  come  back  to  service  and  our 
companionship. 

One  feels  a  sense  of  responsibility  in  occupying  the  time  of  this 
group  of  men,  and  I  pray  that  God  may  give  me  His  spirit,  the  few  mo- 
ments that  I  stand  here,  that  I  may  say  something  that  may  possibly  be 
helpful  to  a  few  of  us.  Before  I  start  out,  however,  I  want  to  express 
my  very  great  pleasure  at  the  presence  on  the  stand  of  the  President  of 
the  Church,  my  venerable  uncle,  and  tell  him  that  our  constant  prayer  in 
our  family  is  for  his  well-being. 

Our  Daily  Conduct 

We  are  a  missionary  group,  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  and 
as  we  go  forth,  we  constantly  have  in  mind  the  dissemination  of  the  word 
of  God,  the  bearing  of  testimony  as  to  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  in 
the  latter  dispensation.  We  study  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  for  themes 
to  use  in  approaching  the  people.  I  remember  that  when  some  of  the 
brethren  in  early  days  asked  the  Prophet  to  ask  the  Lord  what  they  could 
best  do  for  their  own  welfare,  the  Lord  told  them,  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  that  they  could  do  nothing  better  than  to  call  the  world  to 
repentance ;  and  as  I  came  to  the  stand,  President  Young  suggested  that 
I  talk  about  this  subject. 

I  have  come  to  the  conclusion  that  there  is  never  a  day  in  my  life 
when  it  is  not  essential  to  my  well-being.  I  think  sometimes  some  of  us 
think  of  repentance  in  a  rather  narrow  way,  but  I  am  coming  to  feel  that 
it  applies  to  everything  we  do  in  life,  whether  its  purpose  be  temporal  or 
spiritual.  The  Lord  has  told  us  that  there  is  nothing  purely  temporal, 
that  in  all  we  do  there  is  a  spiritual  aspect.   I  believe  that  is  true,  that 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS  67 

every  activity,  every  honest  and  honorable  activity  of  life  should  be  di- 
rected toward  the  well-being  of  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God ;  and  if 
it  is,  it  is  spiritual  in  its  nature. 

As  we  meet  each  other  in  our  daily  walks,  we  strive  to  help  each 
other  to  live  better,  more  successfully,  that  we  may  prosper.  Some  of  us 
are  not  particularly  careful  in  our  dealings  with  each  other,  to  be  honest, 
and  to  give  all  a  fair  chance.  I  believe  that  in  all  of  our  dealings  there  is 
something  to  be  gained,  that  a  fair  exchange  is  justified ;  for  a  fair  ex- 
change is  no  robbery,  and  that  men  can  deal  honestly  and  honorably  with 
each  other,  so  that  there  may  be  profits  on  both  sides  of  the  deal.  I  be- 
lieve that  we  should  strive  to  that  end  and  purpose  in  all  our  labors. 

I  believe  that  all  of  us,  when  we  yiew  our  own  conduct,  and  can  see 
that  we  have  taken  undue  advantage  of  another,  have  reason  to  repent.  I 
believe  that  all  of  us  who,  when  we  think  of  our  sons  and  our  daughters, 
feel  that  we  have  not  given  them  the  type  of  teaching  and  leadership  that 
they  should  have  had,  have  reason  to  repent.  There  is  nothing  on  earth 
that  is  of  greater  value  to  us  than  our  children,  and  there  is  little  that 
has  less  care  at  certain  times  from  certain  people.  We  travel  around 
from  place  to  place,  we  see  frequently  children  who  are  allowed  just  to 
grow  up ;  they  have  no  leadership  in  their  homes,  they  have  no  guidance, 
and  they  have  no  care.  Fortunately,  that  is  a  condition  which  is  not 
prevalent  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Repentance  A  Principle  of  Growth 

I  do  feel,  however,  that  there  are  occasions  %nd  instances  in  which 
even  our  children  do  not  have  the  type  of  leadership  that  they  should 
have,  and  the  prominence  of  certain  sins  among  us  indicates  that  very 
thing. 

I  think  that  when  we  go  to  our  rest  at  night,  we  should  thank  God 
for  any  success  we  have  had  during  the  day,  and  ask  Him  for  faith  in 
guiding  our  children.  We  should  do  the  same  thing  when  we  start  upon 
the  duties  of  the  day  in  the  morning.  We  should  ask  God  for  faith  in 
caring  for  them.  Now,  if  we  have  not  done  so,  we  have  reason  for  re- 
pentance. 

If  we  have  misrepresented  any  act,  anything  in  our  business  activi- 
ties of  the  day,  we  have  reason  for  repentance. 

We  are  constantly  repenting  of  the  practical  things  that  we  do  in 
life.  Whenever  a  man  comes  to  us  and  tells  us  that  we  can  grow  more 
wheat  by  changing  our  system,  we  repent,  although  we  do  not  call  it  that. 
We  abandon  an  old  practice  that  was  not  good,  and  take  on  a  new  one 
which  is  better,  but  we  are  not  so  prone  to  adopt  the  suggestions  of  people 
who  are  inspired  of  the  Lord  when  they  come  to  us  and  tell  us  how  we 
can  better  our  spiritual  lives.  We  ought  to  pay  attention  to  those  sug- 
gestions because  they  are  prompted  by  the  Spirit  of  God. 

Now,  we  are  daily  confronted  with  the  task  of  deciding  what  we 
would  like  to  do,  and  what  we  can  best  do,  from  the  many  things  we 
would  like  to  do.  None  of  us  can  do  everything  we  would  like ;  we  have 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Dag 

to  make  that  decision.  We  have  to  decide  what  is  the  worth-while  thing, 
and  what  is  not.  If  we  have  been  in  the  habit  of  doing  things  that  our 
better  judgment  tells  us  are  not  quite  the  best  thing  that  we  might  do  for 
our  good  and  the  good  of  those  depending  upon  us,  we  have  there  a 
chance  for  repentance. 

Let  us  inspect  our  lives  and  see  if  we  do  not,  all  of  us,  have  room  to 
change  our  way  of  living.  I  feel  that  many  of  us  do.  We,  who  are  here, 
are  the  priesthood  of  God.  We  are  the  leaders  of  the  people ;  we  have 
a  charge ;  we  have  a  duty ;  and  if  we  can  feel  that  we  have  fully  acquitted 
ourselves  of  that  duty  and  responsibility,  all  is  well  and  good. 

Perhaps,  as  leaders  of  wards  and  branches  and  priesthood  quorums, 
we  have  need  to  repent,  because  we  have  not  fully  done  our  duty.  I  feel 
sure  that  many  of  us  have  not.  If  we  all  had,  perhaps  our  quorums  would 
be  in  better  condition  than  they  are. 

Responsibility  of  Leadership 

When  we  accept  these  offices,  we  accept  a  definite  responsibility, 
very,  very  definite,  one  to  lead.  Now,  people  like  leadership  when  it  is 
good  and  just,  and  they  approve  of  it.  They  follow  it.  But  it  is  not  a 
common  thing  for  a  man  to  be  able  to  guide  a  community  according  to 
a  program  that  he  himself  will  not  subscribe  to.  Perhaps  some  of  us 
need  to  repent  of  some  of  our  priesthood  leadership  practices,  so  that  we 
may  be  able  to  say :  "Come,  let  us  go  in  this  direction." 

I  think  that  is  one  of  our  greatest  responsibilities  as  leaders  of  this 
Church,  that  we  should  be  honest  and  true,  absolutely  honest  and  true  to 
the  standards  of  the  Church  and  the  obligations  of  leadership  which  we 
assume. 

There  is  no  place  in  all  our  activities  for  us  to  forget  this  responsi- 
bility, and  to  forget  that  from  day  to  day  we  should  better  our  way  of 
living.  We  should  increase  our  power  of  leadership ;  we  should  be  more 
eager  to  serve  and  better  qualified  to  serve.  If  we  cannot  gain  through 
the  experience  of  today  more  power  for  tomorrow,  we  are  unfortunate. 
If  we  should  see  in  the  work  we  do  today  wherein  we  have  failed,  we,  as 
leaders  of  the  priesthood,  have  reason  to  repent,  to  abandon  the  bad  of 
today,  and  to  replace  it  with  a  better  system  for  tomorrow. 

Brethren,  do  not  get  the  idea  that  repentance  is  something  that  is 
only  for  the  man  who  does  not  belong  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  because  it  is  a  thing  that  applies  to  us  every  hour,  and 
every  day,  and  every  year  of  our  lives.  We  will  never  be  perfect,  and  the 
last  act  of  our  lives  may  be  one  of  repentance.  We  should  remember 
it,  and  apply  it. 

I  pray  that  God  will  bless  us,  that  He  will  make  us  strong,  that  we, 
the  leaders  of  Israel,  will  have  the  inspiration  of  His  holy  spirit  in  lead- 
ing this  people,  that  they  can  honestly  support  us  and  follow  us  in  the 
things  we  ask  them  to  do.  God  bless  you.  Amen. 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 


69 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

As  I  listened  to  President  Israelson  telling  us  that  forty  years  ago 
he  was  called  on  his  first  mission  to  Scandinavia,  I  was  a  bit  shocked.  I 
was  with  Brother  Israelson  in  crossing  the  ocean,  and  it  came  to  me  very 
forcibly,  as  he  spoke,  that  time  is  rapidly  passing. 

There  have  been  so  many  lovely  things  said  in  this  conference  that 
I  hesitate  to  attempt  to  make  any  contribution  to  it.  I  hope,  however, 
I  may  add  to  the  spirit  of  it,  and  I  humbly  pray  that  the  Lord  will  in- 
spire what  I  may  say. 

Reports  From  Mission  Fields 

The  other  day  we  had  the  privilege  of  meeting  in  the  temple  with 
the  presidents  of  the  missions.  In  listening  to  their  reports,  it  was  very 
impressive  to  observe  the  kind  of  men  that  the  Church  has  called  into  its 
missionary  service,  men  of  rare  intelligence,  men  of  fine  leadership,  and 
men  of  great  faith.  Although  they  are  now  laboring  under  extreme 
handicaps  because  of  the  lack  of  missionaries,  yet  the  manner  in  which 
they  are  carrying  on,  as  reflected  in  their  reports,  is  very  impressive. 
They  are  men  of  God. 

In  all  of  the  things  that  were  reported  by  them,  there  was  not  an 
unkind  word  or  a  derogatory  thing  said  about  any  faith,  or  anyone  not 
of  our  faith.  The  spirit  of  their  reports  was  the  spirit  of  carrying  out 
the  work  of  the  Lord  as  He  has  revealed  it  in  this  day,  a  spirit  to  labor 
faithfully  and  true. 

As  we  listened  to  these  reports,  I  thought  of  the  great  contribution 
the  missionary  system  has  made  to  the  Church.  The  leaders  of  the 
Church — you — we,  all  of  us  largely  received  our  schooling  through  the 
opportunities  afforded  in  laboring  in  the  mission  field.  We  may  not  have 
converted  very  many  people,  but  we  did  convert  ourselves,  and  thus  the 
mission  field  became  a  school,  from  which  has  come  the  leaders  of  the 
Church.  It  was  not  only  a  mission  field,  but  an  institution,  the  results  of 
which  we  see  in  evidence  today. 

As  we  listened  to  the  reports  and  were  told  that  by  July  there  would 
be  very,  very  few  male  missionaries  in  the  field,  I  wondered  about  the 
future  with  reference  to  this  phase  of  our  work.  I  wonder  what  will 
take  the  place  of  this  great  school  that  has  produced  so  many  men  of 
faith  and  testimony,  men  who  have  taken  their  places  as  leaders  in  the 
wards  and  stakes  of  Zion. 

The  Effects  of  War 

We  were  told  that  our  boys  who  are  going  into  the  service  are  mak- 
ing good.  Many  of  them  are,  without  doubt,  but  we  must  not  forget  the 
fact  that  war  in  and  of  itself  is  not  a  constructive  force ;  it  is  not  an  agency 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Day 

that  produces  righteousness ;  nor  is  it  an  agency  that  promotes  the  stand- 
ards of  the  Church.  On  the  contrary,  it  is  an  agency  that  tears  down  and 
breaks  the  very  fiber  of  which  men  of  Latter-day  Saint  caliber  are  made. 

Yet  reports  are  coming  in  that  reflect  that  the  boys  who  have  been 
in  the  mission  field,  who  have  grown  in  this  great  school  and  have  been 
educated  in  it,  are  making  good,  and  are  withstanding  the  onslaught  of 
evil  that  comes  with  war.  We  are  grateful  for  that.  There  are  many  re- 
ports that  bear  this  out. 

But  I  believe,  my  brethren,  that  when  the  story  is  finally  told  at  the 
close  of  the  war  there  will  be  many  scars,  and  we  need  to  have  much  con- 
cern about  it.  This  emphasizes  again  the  need  of  our  keeping  in  close 
contact  with  our  boys  as  far  as  it  is  humanly  possible  to  do  so  under  exist- 
ing conditions.  We  should  let  them  feel  and  know  that  we  are  thinking 
of  them.  This  contacting  the  boys  by  mail  should  be  made  a  quorum 
activity  which  will  not  only  stimulate  the  quorum  but  will  also  help  our 
boys  in  meeting  conditions  that  come  to  them,  and  the  loneliness  which  ' 
at  times  they  must  feel. 

The  Growth  of  the  Church 

Yesterday  we  were  all  impressed  as  we  listened  to  the  statistical  re- 
port as  presented  by  President  Clark.  It  reflected  a  marvelous  growth 
and  strength.  During  President  Grant's  administration  the  number  of 
stakes  has  doubled. .  Then,  too,  reference  was  made  to  the  great  strides 
of  the  Welfare  program.  Eight  years.  It  is  only  six  years  since  we  un- 
dertook projects.  At  that  time  a  statement  went  out  over  the  press  that 
the  Church  expected  to  take  care  of  its  own.  Well,  in  these  six  or  eight 
years  we  have  demonstrated  what  we  can  do,  and  that  we  can  meet  that 
requirement,  if  men  and  women  will  but  subscribe.  It  is  marvelous  when 
you  think  of  it. 

In  contemplating  the  next  ten  years  we  can  visualize  the  great  po- 
tent power  which  lies  in  this  agency  of  human  welfare.  It  is  a  part  of  the 
Church,  a  part  of  quorum  activity.   How  grateful  we  ought  to  be  for  it. 

So  I  say  to  you,  with  all  the  adverse  things,  with  all  the  problems 
which  youth  have  to  meet,  the  problems  which  were  suggested  by  Brother 
Benson  this  morning,  with  it  all.  we  have  much  for  which  we  may  be 
grateful.  Today  I  join  with  you  in  thanking  our  Heavenly  Father  for 
the  evidence  of  the  divinity  of  this  work  on  every  hand,  the  evidence  in 
its  growth,  in  its  power  and  its  strength. 

I  am  grateful,  my  brethren,  for  my  standing  in  this  Church.  I  am 
grateful  for  the  testimony  which  I  have.  I  am  grateful  for  the  evidence 
of  leadership  found  everywhere  in  the  Church. 

May  God  give  us  power  and  faith  that  we  may  not  fail  in  our  trust, 
and  as  we  grow  in  our  leadership,  grow  in  faith  and  power,  the  Church 
will  grow,  and  you  and  I  need  but  to  look  about  to  see  the  evidence  of 
what  we  may  expect,  with  us  all  doing  our  duty  as  God  expects  us  to  do. 
God  help  us  to  do  this,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


71 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Many  thoughtful  persons  in  these  days  are  urging  a  return  to  the 
virtues  and  the  way  of  life  of  former  days.  It  is  their  contention  that 
the  worth-while  things  for  which  America  stands  are  attributable  in  large 
measure  to  the  concepts  and  stability  of  the  founding  fathers,  and  to 
the  persistence  of  these  concepts  through  the  passing  years. 

A  Return  to  Fundamentals  Essential 

Some  of  these  students  and  observers,  and  they  are  the  ones  who 
arrest  my  attention  and  most  command  my  admiration,  go  so  far  as  to 
assert,  and  I  think  with  deep  conviction,  that  it  is  not  only  necessary  to 
return  to  the  original  principles  and  ways  of  work  and  living,  but  that  we 
must  also  recapture  the  spirit,  the  faith,  and  the  reverential  devotion  of 
our  forebears  if  we  are  to  sustain  the  drive  that  will  make  America 
achieve  her  high  and  glorious  destiny.  Some  are  far-seeing  and  pene- 
trating enough  to  realize  that  the  principles  of  liberty  and  equity  and 
justice  incorporated  into  the  institutional  make-up  of  our  country  were 
but  the  expression  of  the  deep-seated  personal  convictions  and  concepts 
of  God-ordained  righteousness,  purity  of  life  and  fair  dealing  which 
characterized  many  of  the  most  influential  and  contributive  groups  in 
our  history.  There  are  some  among  these  observers,  but  not  all,  who  are 
frank  enough  to  accord  to  religion  a  major  part  in  the  formulation  and 
maintenance  of  the  salutory  principles  which  support  American  spirit 
and  enterprise.  Some  plead  for  more  religion,  but  many  are  vague  as 
to  the  method  by  which  our  spiritual  and  moral  values  may  be  restored. 

I  agree  that  a  return  to  many  fundamental  principles  and  practices 
is  essential.  I  am  sure  that  it  is  an  error  to  discard  time-tested  doctrines 
or  procedure  merely  because  they  are  old.  I  believe  that  the  soundest 
growth  and  evolution  come  from  building  on  solid  and  tested  founda- 
tions.  He  is  reckless  who  disregards  the  lessons  of  experience. 

The  evidence  is  abundant  to  show  that  we  have  strayed  far  from 
many  fundamental  conceptions  of  right  and  good.  I  refrain  from  men- 
tioning governmental  policies  or  tendencies  because  of  political  implica- 
tions. I  call  attention  to  those  moral  and  spiritual  values  which  so  deeply 
affect  the  happiness  and  welfare  of  the  people  and  which,  in  my  judg- 
ment, are  vital  to  the  attainment  of  true  freedom  and  peace  in  the  world. 

A  Decline  In  Sanctity  of  Marriage  Contract  Evident 

Perhaps  the  first  and  most  striking  evidence  of  departure  from  time- 
honored  traditions  is  in  the  deterioration  of  the  American  home.  Much 
has  been  said  on  this  subject  and  it  is  not  necessary  to  go  into  detail.  There 
is  ample  justification  for  the  assertion  that  the  marriage  compact  has  in 
large  measure  ceased  to  be  a  holy  sacrament,  as  it  was  once  so  generally 
regarded,  and  that  it  has  been  perverted  and  prostituted  in  millions  of 
cases  to  selfish  and  unworthy  purposes.    Even  among  those  who  would 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Day 

still  retain  a  vestige  of  its  sanctity  there  are  thousands  who  have  pervert- 
ed the  holy  ceremony  until  it  has  become,  as  one  New  York  clergyman 
of  long  experience  characterized  it,  a  "paganistic  pageantry"  completely 
overshadowing  the  spiritual  and  divine  with  an  ostentatious  display  of 
wealth  and  vanity. 

That  the  holding  power  in  the  marital  contract  is  declining  year  by 
year  is  evidenced  by  the  ever-increasing  number  of  divorces,  and  that 
the  home  is  fast  ceasing  to  be  an  expression  of  high  idealism  and  duty 
to  God  and  society  is  manifest  in  the  absence  and  fewness  of  children, 
particularly  in  those  families  which  'by  reason  of  heritage  and  out  of 
every  sense  of  gratitude  and  obligation  are  definitely  charged  to  perpetu- 
ate the  race  of  men  in  whose  bloodstream  flows  the  purest  concept  of 
liberty  to  be  found  in  this  world.  I  don't  know  how  it  may  be  with  oth- 
ers, but  I  feel  outraged  with  the  disgrace  and  stigma  heaped  upon  our 
land  by  the  prostitution  of  the  holy  covenant  of  marriage  so  widely  adver- 
tised in  the  public  press — four,  five,  six  and  seven  marriages  undertaken 
by  so-called  celebrities  within  the  space  of  a  few  years. 

These  are  not  marriages  within  any  decent  interpretation  of  that 
honored  and  hallowed  word.  They  are  arrangements  under  the  sanction 
of  ill-considered  laws  for  purposes  which  forbid  description;  yet  these 
nefarious  arrangements  are  publicized  together  with  their  salacious  dis- 
solutions as  well  in  glaring  headlines  all  over  the  country  for  the  edifica- 
tion of  our  youth,  who  in  many  instances  have  been  attracted  and  allured 
by  the  glamour  of  these  "celebrities."  Is  it  any  wonder  that  the  prob- 
lems and  vexations  of  good  parents  are  multiplied?  One  would  think 
that  an  enlightened  press  with  concern  for  the  country's  welfare  would 
find  other  means  of  handling  such  questionable  "news."  There  is  a 
strong  temptation  to  enlarge  on  the  evidences  of  disintegration  of  our 
most  basic  institution,  but  I  must  pass  to  other  trends. 

Purity  of  Life  Defined 

From  the  large  number  of  reports  which  have  come  to  us  in  recent 
months  indicating  increased  moral  delinquency  and  from  observations 
extending  over  a  much  longer  period  of  time,  I  think  we  are  safe  in  say- 
ing that  purity  of  life  is  on  the  wane  and  this  in  spite  of  numerous  scien- 
tific advances  made  in  the  preservation  of.  health.  Purity  of  life  is  some- 
thing more  than  good  diet  and  immunity  from  disease.  It  contemplates  a 
wholesome  and  reverential  respect  for  the  body  of  man.  It  looks  upon 
the  physical  equipment  of  man  as  an  instrumentality  for  the  achievement 
of  high  and  noble  purposes,  not  disassociated  from  the  spiritual.  It  re- 
gards pollution  of  the  body  as  an  offense,  not  alone  against  health  but 
against  the  sublime  objective  of  bodily  Creation.  The  taking  of  poison 
in  the  form  of  narcotics  and  unnecessary  stimulants  and  a  wasting  of 
bodily  energy  in  unworthy  pursuits  all  militate  against  the  pure  life. 

With  a  deterioration  of  the  pure  life,  self-control,  one  of  the  vital 
components  of  character  has  weakened.  Resistance  to  temptation  and  to 
the  urge  of  the  passions  is  growing  noticeably  less.    Self-indulgence  and 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


73 


the  craving  of  new  means  for  such  indulgence  have  become  dominating 
motives  with  altogether  too  many  of  the  people.  This  has  frequently 
resulted  in  the  enervation  of  the  rich  and  the  dismay  of  the  poor.  The 
struggles  and  deprivations  incident  to  the  war  effort  may  have  done  some- 
thing to  retard  the  advance  of  these  tendencies,  but  one  cannot  help  but 
feel  that  with  the  removal  of  the  deterrent  the  old  urges  for  self -gratifica- 
tion would  return  with  increased  intensity. 

Religious  Influence  Waning 

It  has  long  been  pointed  out  that  religion  as  a  motivating  force  has 
declined.  In  many  decades  a  smaller  and  smaller  proportion  of  the  peo- 
ple are  even  exposed  to  religious  influence.  Churches  and  Sunday  Schools 
throughout  the  nation  have  gradually  but  constantly  decreased  in  attend- 
ance proportionate  to  the  growth  of  population.  The  schools  have  been 
so  completely  divorced  not  only  from  religious  control  but  from  all  re- 
ligious and  spiritual  influence  that  they  never  even  have  prayer  in  any 
of  their  exercises  except  for  graduation.  Just  why  they  see  fit  to  call 
for  divine  favor  at  graduation  and  not  for  any  other  occasions  I  have 
never  been  quite  able  to  understand. 

Humanism,  skepticism,  and  atheism  have  probably  grown  with  the 
years,  although  I  do  believe  that  in  recent  times  they  have  not  had  the 
comfort  and  encouragement  from  science  that  they  were  once  supposed 
to  receive.  Modernists,  cults  and  societies,  seeking  to  explain  the  phe- 
nomena of  life,  man  and  the  universe  in  every  way  other  than  the  plain 
and  simple  way  in  which  the  Author  of  the  universe  explains  it,  have 
sprung  up  in  such  numbers  and  with  such  varied  philosophies  as  utterly 
to  confuse  the  youth  of  the  land  and  all  others  who  do  not  have  the  good 
fortune  to  have  their  feet  planted  on  the  solid  ground  of  truth. 

I  have  mentioned  but  a  few  of  the  many  symptoms  of  society  which 
indicate  to  the  thoughtful  observers  a  great  need  for  a  reappraisement  of 
the  values  in  life  and  for  the  reestablishment  of  the  verities  which  have 
served  as  guiding  posts  in  human  progress.  I  do  not  know  what  propor- 
tion of  the  students  of  our  society  think  that  a  return  to  tested  principles 
is  the  vital  need  but  I  do  know  that  whatever  their  proportion  may  be  I 
agree  with  them.  It  may  seem  strange  but  it  is  nevertheless  true  that 
the  only  department  of  research  and  scientific  endeavor  in  which  man  has 
made  little  or  no  progress  during  the  past  several  centuries  has  been  in 
the  realm  of  human  relations.  Certainly,  as  one  author  puts  it,  he  is  just 
as  much  or  more  disposed  to  fight  with  his  neighbors  today  as  he  was 
three  hundred  years  ago.  Present  conditions  are  a  most  persuasive  and 
cruel  attestation  of  that  fact.  I  believe  that  some  of  those  who  urge  a 
return  to  fundamentals  do  so  largely  because  they  have  despaired  of  find- 
ing anything  new  that  is  better  than  the  old. 

Safe  Leadership  for  the  Future 

Now,  my  brethren,  I  have  presented  these  observations  to  you  be- 
cause I  want  to  ask  a  question.   This  is  the  question.   If  it  is  necessary  to 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  7  Second  Day 

revert  to  such  fundamental  concepts,  principles,  and  ways  of  life  as  were 
once  upheld  and  practiced  by  the  founders  of  our  country  and  the  build- 
ers of  our  nation  in  order  to  continue  its  progress  and  to  achieve  its  most 
worthy  ambitions ;  if  it  is  necessary  to  go  back  in  order  to  go  forward, 
who,  I  ask,  who  is  to  lead  the  way  ?  Whom  have  we  in  America  who  are 
most  thoroughly  converted  to  the  concepts  and  institutions  that  have 
made  for  her  greatness  ?  Who  have  the  firmest  convictions  of  the 
sanctity  and  function  of  the  home  and  of  the  perpetuity  of  the  marriage 
compact,  not  only  as  the  source  of  domestic  felicity  here  in  this  life,  but 
for  enduring  happiness  in  the  life  to  come?  Whose  doctrines  are  best 
fitted  for  the  qualification  of  parents  and  for  the  nurture  and  equipment 
of  children  ?  What  group  in  our  society  have  striven  most  for  the  at- 
tainment of  the  pure  life  and  demonstrated  most  effectively  their  belief 
in  the  sanctity  of  the  body  as  the  tabernacle  of  the  spirit?  Who  have 
stood  most  adamantly  against  the  incursion  of  immorality  and  a  double 
standard  of  living  among  men  and  women?  Who  in  our  country  have 
the  most  enlarged  and  authentic  vision  of  her  destiny  ?  Is  there  a  leader- 
ship available  in  America  who  knows  without  guessing  what  her  destiny 
is  and  precisely  how  it  is  to  be  achieved?  I  know  and  you  know, 
my  brethren,  where  that  leadership  exists,  and  we  know  that  leadership 
is  divinely  charged  to  direct  men  in  our  own  country  and  elsewhere  to 
the  principles  of  truth  and  rectitude  which  alone  can  make  for  happiness 
in  the  earth. 

I  say  it  with  some  hesitation  because  I  am  loathe  to  give  offense  to 
anyone,  but  I  am  convinced  that  there  is  no  other  leadership  in  this  en- 
tire country,  nor  in  this  world  which  is  adequate  to  bring  people  every- 
where to  God,  righteousness  and  truth.  This  is  so,  not  because  the  per- 
sonalities which  comprise  this  leadership  have  greater  inherited  or  ac- 
quired intelligence,  nor  more  secular  knowledge,  nor  more  wealth,  in- 
fluence, and  talent  than  their  fellows  in  the  citizenry  of  the  world,  nor 
is  it  because  of  the  power  of  their  numbers.  This  leadership  comes 
through  two  circumstances,  first  from  the  revelation  of  pure  knowledge 
about  man  and  the  universe,  and  secondly,  from  divine  commission  to 
guide  men  to  the  truth. 

There  is  no  time  today  even  to  review  the  concepts,  interpretations, 
and  principles  revealed  with  the  restored  gospel  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
which  provides  leadership  for  the  world.  Suffice  it  to  say  that  they  cover 
and  make  provision  for  every  aspect  of  human  life  and  endeavor.  They 
amplify,  confirm,  and  revitalize  the  principles  of  life  taught  by  the  Sav- 
ior of  the  world  in  His  ministry  among  men.  They  define  with  a  clarity 
never  before  available  the  nature  of  the  fatherhood  of  God  and  the  son- 
ship  of  man  and  the  brotherhood  of  humanity.  They  resolve  the  issues 
of  authority.  They  expound  the  true  principles  of  government;  they 
glorify  learning ;  they  debase  ignorance ;  they  extol  wisdom ;  and  they 
extend  the  vision  of  man  to  the  most  glorious  destiny  finite  understanding 
has  ever  conceived.  They  give  to  man  the  dignity,  the  majesty,  and  the 
divine  status  that  furnish  the  foundation  for  the  most  exalted  conceptions 
of  liberty  and  freedom  that  the  world  has  known. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


75 


And  with  these  lofty  concepts  and  enlightening  principles  has  come 
the  divine  delegation  of  Christ's  power  to  adminster  his  gospel  among 
those  who  accept  him.  This  investiture  of  authority  is  carefully  and 
fully  defined.  It  becomes  effective  in  those  only  who  subscribe  to  the 
high  principles  upon  which  it  is  founded.  Being  a  principle  of  truth  it 
flows  through  those  vessels  only  whose  lives  conform  to  truth.  This 
power  is  mightiest  in  the  humblest,  like  the  Savior  who  bestowed  it.  Its 
possessor  must  be  the  servant  of  all. 

The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  the  Need  of  the  World 

Now,  you  and  I  know  that,  stripped  of  all  circuitous  and  evasive 
verbiage,  the  return  which  our  country  needs  to  make  to  reacquire  faith, 
courage,  and  integrity  to  carry  forward  is  a  return  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  We  know  that  this  nation  was  conceived  in  Christian  righteous- 
ness, and  we  know  that  our  troubles  will  pass  only  as  and  when  we  con- 
sciously adopt  as  the  criteria  for  air  our  acts,  national  and  individual, 
principles  of  truth  enunciated  in  the  gospel  of  our  Lord. 

I  am  trying  to  believe  that  when  our  fellow  citizens,  as  well  as  count- 
less others  in  the  world,  perceive  the  efficacy  of  true  Christian  principles 
as  they  are  adopted  in  the  lives  and  living  of  individuals  and  communities, 
many  will  be  persuaded  by  such  a  demonstration  to  yield  their  lives  to 
the  truth  of  Christ.  In  our  own  country  there  are  many  thousands  of 
thoroughly  good  men  and  women  who  are  watching  closely  what  they 
regard  as  our  experiment.  Many  know  what  we  teach  and  what  we  say. 
They  are  waiting  to  see  whether  or  not  our  deeds  accord  with  our  pro- 
fessions. 

It  will  not  be  necessary  to  have  an  election  to  determine  who  takes 
moral  and  spiritual  leadership  of  our  country.  Our  own  living  and 
righteous  accomplishments  will  decide  that  matter.  God  has  called  us 
and  set  us  apart  for  a  purpose.  We  need  never  fear  that  when  our  soli- 
darity, our  virtue,  our  knowledge,  and  our  goodness  are  sufficient  that 
there  will  be  provided  the  means  and  facilities  to  advertise  our  ac- 
complishments and  our  principles  to  the  world.  That  will  bring  leader- 
ship. 

Today  mankind,  as  probably  never  before,  needs  the  gifts  of  the 
Gospel — wisdom,  discernment,  vision,  and  comfort.  These  precious 
tilings  come  only  from  good  living  and  prayerful  hearts.  If,  as  a  nation, 
we  cannot  maintain  faith,  there  is  little  hope  for  us.  We  had  a  lecturer 
in  our  city  a  few  weeks  ago  who  held  out  the  view  that  the  world  is  fast 
approaching  a  gigantic  competition — a  competition  that  will  eventually 
envelop  all  nations  and  peoples — a  competition  of  ideologies  which  in  es- 
sence resolves  itself  into  an  issue  between  the  liberty  of  democracy  and 
the  power  of  the  totalitarian  state.  He  thought  that  America  would  in- 
evitably be  the  supreme  exponent  of  individual  freedom,  but  he  cautioned 
that  in  this  great  contest  we  should  have  a  poor  chance  to  win  the  favor 
and  allegiance  of  the  many  nations  who  are  expected  in  the  future  under 
the  right  of  self-determination  to  choose  their  forms  of  government  if 
we  did  not  demonstrate  more  adequately  than  we  have  done  in  the  im- 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  7  Second  Day 

mediate  past  the  virtues  and  efficacy  of  democracy.  He  urged  a  speedy 
return  to  the  faith  of  our  fathers  and  to  the  restraint  and  disciplines  which 
a  righteous  self-control  imposes  upon  us. 

When  lawlessness  is  advertised  as  our  national  characteristic  and 
the  nudity  of  Hollywood  is  a  pictorial  representation  of  America  in  the 
battle  camps  of  the  world,  it  is  not  too  likely  that  the  serious-minded 
people  of  the  earth  will  choose  us  as  their  prototype  of  good  government 
and  a  sound  society.  God  grant  that  the  return  to  wisdom  and  righteous- 
ness through  national  repentance  for  which  Lincoln  and  Washington  so 
earnestly  pleaded  shall  come  quickly  before  it  is  too  late,  and  God  grant 
that  the  leadership  which  He  has  chosen  may  be  prepared  to  show  the 
way  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

To  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  and  friends,  who  are  listening  in  on 
the  air,  I  would  like  to  say :  We  who  are  privileged  to  assemble  in  this 
house  sincerely  pray  that  the  peace  of  spirit,  the  spiritual  uplift,  which 
has  been  with  us  here,  has,  in  measure  at  least,  gone  out  over  the  wires 
to  enhearten,  to  uplift,  and  to  encourage  all  of  the  membership  of  the 
Church. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  Ye  Mountains  High" — Words 
by  Charles  W.  Penrose  (L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  338). 

Elder  John  B.  Matheson,  President  of  the  Riverside  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.m. 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  fourth  session  of  the  great  Conference  was  held  in  the  Taber- 
nacle Friday  afternoon,  April  7,  at  2  o'clock. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  who  was  conducting  the  meeting  an- 
nounced that  the  services  would  begin  by  the  congregation  singing  the 
hymn,  "Do  What  Is  Right"  (L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  185). 

Elder  Richard  P.  Condie  conducted  the  singing.  Elder  Wade  N. 
Stephens  was  at  the  organ. 

Elder  William  S.  Erekson,  President  of  the  Cottonwood  Stake,  of- 
fered the  opening  prayer.  ■  . 

The  congregation  then  sang  the  hymn,  "God  Moves  In  A  Mysterious 
Way,"— Words  by  William  Cowper  (L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  49). 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 


77 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 

My  dear  brethren,  and  my  brethren  and  sisters  who  have  joined  this 
conference  by  radio,  it  is  a  great  honor  and  a  grave  responsibility  to  bear 
one's  testimony  to  this  congregation.  Yesterday  morning,  just  before 
coming  over  to  conference,  a  man  walked  into  my  office  whom  I  had 
not  seen  for  a  number  of  years.  I  think  I  shall  name  him :  President 
Edward  L.  Clissold  from  the  Hawaiian  Islands.  We  were  boyhood 
chums  together;  went  through  grade  school  together;  were  on  missions 
together ;  and  as  I  shook  his  hand  and  felt  the  strength  of  those  long  years 
of  friendship  and  common  ideals,  I  was  singularly  impressed  with  the 
power  of  unity ;  and  during  the  morning  session  yesterday,  as  we  listened 
to  the  message  of  the  living  prophet  of  Almighty  God,  I  was  impressed 
again  with  his  iteration  of  the  need  for  unity. 

Unity  An  Essential  Principle 

We  are  gathered  here  together  at  a  particularly  significant  season, 
even  though  it  be  more  or  less  paganistically  celebrated  by  the  Christian 
world;  a  season  whose  significance  is  genuinely  appreciated  only  by 
Latter-day  Saints.  The  Savior  not  long  before  he  went  to  His  crucifix- 
ion admonished  the  Twelve  and  then  He  prayed  to  His  Father  in  Heaven, 
and  among  other  things  He  said  these  words : 

Holy  Father,  keep  through  thine  own  name  those  whom  thou  hast 
given  me,  that  they  may  be  one  as  we  are ;  .  .  .  and  for  their  sakes  I  sanctify 
myself  that  they  might  also  be  sanctified  through  the  truth.  Neither  pray 
I  for  these  alone,  but  for  them  also  which  believe  on  me  through  their  word, 
that  they  may  all  be  one,  as  thou,  Father,  art  in  me  and  I  in  thee,  that  they 
also  may  be  one  in  us ;  that  the  world  may  believe  that  thou  hast  sent  me. 
And  the  glory  which  thou  gavest  me  I  have  given  them ;  that  they  may  be 
one,  even  as  we  are  one :  I  in  them  and  thou  in  me,  that  they  may  be  made 
perfect  in  one ;  that  the  world  may  know  that  thou  hast  sent  me,  and  hast 
loved  them,  as  thou  hast  loved  me. 

Disunity  is  forever  a  destructive  force  whether  it  be  war  among 
nations ;  whether  it  be  civil  strife  within  the  state ;  whether  it  be  schism 
within  the  Church,  discord  within  the  family,  or  even-  turmoil  and  con- 
flict within  the  soul  of  the  individual  person ;  for  a  man  divided  against 
himself  can  no  more  stand  than  a  divided  house.  A  society  cannot  be 
unified  except  as  its  members  are  one  together  and  except  as  individually 
they  are  one  with  themselves.   The  matter  of  wholeness  is  essential. 

Causes  for  Delinquency 

Modern  psychologists  have  said  much  in  recent  years  about  the 
integrated  personality,  and  our  hospitals  for  mental  defectives  are  full 
of  persons  suffering  from  conflicts  within  themselves.  They  are  not 
whole.  It  is  profoundly  significant  that  this  word  "whole"  is  used  fre- 
quently as  a  synonym  for  "health."  You  remember  when  the  Pharisees 
saw  the  Savior  sitting  at  meat  with  Publicans,  sinners,  and  so  on,  they 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  7  Second  Day 

found  fault  with  Him,  and  He  told  them  that  the  whole  have  no  need 
of  a  physician.  It  is  the  basic  business  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to 
bring  about  a  oneness,  a  wholeness  in  the  individual,  a  wholeness  col- 
lectively among  the  children  of  God.  I  should  like  to  leave  this  one  idea 
this  afternoon  in  the  matter  of  helping  the  individual  to  be  whole. 

We  have  heard  a  good  deal  about  juvenile  delinquency,  a  grave  prob- 
lem ;  and  one  of  the  alarming,  particularly  alarming,  aspects  of  our  pres- 
ent juvenile  delinquency  is  that  not  so  great  a  percentage  of  it  any  longer 
comes  from  the  broken  home.  While  the  broken  home  is  still  a  tre- 
mendous contributing  factor,  we  are  alarmed  to  find  out  that  among  the 
so-called  "best  families"  many  young  persons  are  running  amuck.  I  am 
of  the  opinion  that  much  of  this  delinquency  is  the  result  of  conflicts 
within  the  individual  souls  of  the  young  people.  What  of  parents  who 
actually  foster  and  abet  internal  conflict  in  their  children?  I  am  speak- 
ing of  Latter-day  Saints,  or  at  least  members  of  the  Church,  who,  through 
certain  Church  loyalty,  send  their  children  to  their  Church  meetings, 
their  Primary  and  their  M.I.A.  and  their  Sunday  School ;  who  have  their 
sons  go  to  Priesthood  meetings  and  in  due  course  encourage  them  to  re- 
ceive the  Priesthood  and  yet  who,  in  their  own  homes,  do  not  set  worthy 
examples.  In  such  case,  the  youngster  goes  to  Sunday  School  and  is 
taught  that  he  should  be  loyal  to  the  Church ;  he  is  taught  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel.  He  comes  home  only  to  find  those  principles  disobeyed 
in  his  home.  Moreover,  the  Church  teaches  him  the  words  of  the  Savior 
"Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother !"  Here  he  is  faced  with  a  divided 
loyalty.  If  he  is  loyal  to  his  parents,  how  can  he  be  loyal  to  the  Church 
which  teaches  doctrines  and  advocates  conduct  which  his  parents  by  their 
very  lives  reject? 

Many  parents,  in  so  simple  a  thing  as  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
excuse  themselves  sometimes  on  the  basis  of  social  exigency,  sometimes 
on  the  basis  of  business  exigency.  There  is  only  one  basis  for  it  and 
that  is  either  a  lack  of  belief  or  moral  cowardice.  No  parent  would  de- 
liberately subject  his  child  to  physical  suffering.  Any  parent  who  would 
do  that  we  would  say  is  cruel,  and  yet  it  is  just  as  much  an  act  of  cruelty 
and  ultimately  more  damaging,  to  impale  the  child  on  the  horns  of  a 
dilemma  of  conflicting  loyalties.  He  cannot  be  fully  loyal  to  a  Church 
which  teaches  one  doctrine  and  fully  loyal  to  parents  who  decline  to  ob- 
serve that  doctrine.  That  conflict  will  be  resolved  either  by  the  destruc- 
tion of  one  or  other  or  both  of  those  loyalties.  We  need  oneness. 

The  Doctrine  and  Covenants  has  explained  what  the  human  soul 
is ;  what  the  soul  of  man  is.  The  body  and  the  spirit  are  the  soul  of  man, 
and  the  purpose  of  our  mortal  sojourn  is  to  bring  about  a  complete  fusion, 
to  bring  about  an  indissoluble  oneness,  of  spirit  and  body.  If  parents  will 
live  according  to  the  Gospel,  will  send  their  children  to  be  taught  in 
Church  organizations  and  indeed  will  augment  that  teaching  with  teach- 
ing and  example  in  the  home,  then  two  great  forces,  the  family  and  the 
»  Church,  will  converge  upon  the  individual  youngster  to  bring  about  a 
wholeness,  a  spiritual  health,  a  oneness  ryithout  which  neither  happiness 
nor  salvation  can  be  obtained. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  79 

y 

Hunger  for  Righteousness  To  Be  Cultivated 

We  have  a  grave  responsibility  to  establish  in  our  young  people 
righteous  hunger.  Everyone  of  us  knows  that  he  has  hungers  for  par- 
ticular foods.  Even  now,  when  I'm  very  hungry  the  first  thing  I  think 
of  is  a  big  bowl  of  beans  and  a  piece  of  new  bread  and  butter.  Why? 
Because  as  a  youngster,  every  Monday  afternoon  that  is  what  I  got,  and 
now  when  I  am  hungry  nothing  else  tastes  so  good.  We  hunger  for 
those  things  we  are  used  to.  When  we  are  hungry,  we  don't  think  of  a 
bowl  of  bird-nest  soup,  though  thousands  of  Chinese  do.  These  boys 
who  have  gone  out  into  the  service  of  their  country  and  get  away  from 
home  and  look  about  them  for  a  Church  to  go  to,  hunt  up  other  boys  who 
are  members  of  the  Church  and  get  together  to  meet.  Why  do  they  do 
it?  Because  they  have  a  hunger  in  them  established  for  it.  "Blessed  are 
they  who  hunger  and  thirst  after  righteousness."  That  is  no  mere  figure 
of  speech.  Those  words  were  wisely  chosen.  If  we  deliberately  im- 
plant righteous  hungers  in  our  children,  then  when  they  are  from  under 
our  roof  trees  they  will  bend  their  dearest  efforts  to  satisfy  the  healthful 
appetite  wise  parentage  has  helped  to  cultivate.  One  can  hunger  for 
righteousness  just  as  one  can  develop  evil  appetites. 

It  is  my  prayer  that  we  shall  have  the  wisdom  and  the  courage  so  to 
live  that  our  very  lives  will  be  dynamically  persuasive  examples  to  our 
young  people  of  what  the  Church  teaches,  so  that  we  may  not  be  guilty 
of  inflicting  upon  them  the  agonies  of  conflicting  loyalties,  and  I  ask  it 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren,  that  I  might  enjoy  the  spirit  of  the 
Lord  for  the  moment  or  two  that  I  stand  before  you.  It  is  now  six  years 
since  the  present  Presiding  Bishopric  was  sustained  in  its  present  posi- 
tion. I  should  like  to  say  that  this  period  of  our  lives  has  been  a  period 
of  inspiration  because  of  the  fact  that  we  have  had  the  privelege  of  being 
so  closely  associated  with  the  livng  prophets  of  God,  these  men  who  re- 
ceive the  mind  and  will  of  our  Heavenly  Father  to  guide  and  direct  the 
destiny  of  this  great  Church.  I  am  deeply  grateful  for  the  association 
that  I  have  with  you,  for  the  privilege  of  visiting  your  stakes  and  wards 
and  observing  the  high  degree  of  loyalty  and  devotion  to  the  cause  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  manifested  by  you. 

Grateful  for  Labors  Among  Youth 

The  Presiding  Bishopric  is  most  grateful  for  the  high  privilege  we 
enjoy  in  laboring  with  the  youth  of  Zion.  Of  our  several  responsibilities 
and  duties,  we  are  agreed  that  the  most  important  is  our  participation 
with  you  in  directing  and  guiding  the  destiny  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood 
of  the  Church.    I  want  to  say  to  you  that  laboring  with  boys  and  young 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Dag 

men,  securing  their  confidence  and  trust,  is  the  sweetest  experience  that 
can  come  into  the  life  of  any  man.  When  one  speaks  of  boys,  the  memory 
of  the  Boy  of  Nazareth  always  comes  to  mind,  particularly  that  period 
of  His  life  when  He  was  twelve  years  of  age.  It  was  the  custom  of  the 
Jewish  people,  when  a  boy  attained  the  age  of  twelve,  to  make  him  a 
member  of  his  home  community.  At  this  age,  a  boy  was  expected  to  have 
selected  his  life's  vocation.  He  was  given  higher  assignments  in  the 
study  of  the  law,  and,  if  he  qualified,  he  was  recognized  by  the  religious 
leader,  the  priest,  as  a  son  of  the  law.  The  Jewish  boy  at  the  age  of 
twelve  was  extended  the  privilege  of  attending  the  Feast  of  the  Passover, 
which  was  held  in  Jerusalem.  Christ  at  the  age  of  twelve  accompanied 
His  father  and  mother  to  attend  this  great  Jewish  celebration,  which 
lasted  for  a  week.  Thereafter,  His  parents,  Joseph  and  Mary,  started 
their  homeward  journey,  and  at  the  end  of  the  first  day  of  travel,  they 
discovered  Jesus  was  not  with  them.  They  immediately  retraced  their 
steps  to  the  city,  and,  after  searching  diligently,  they  found  Jesus  in  the 
temple,  discussing  with  the  scribes  and  wise  men  the  problems  of  the 
day,  propounding  and  answering  questions  to  the  amazement  of  these 
men  of  learning.  Mary  reproached  her  son  in  the  following  words :  "Son, 
why  hast  thou  thus  dealt  with  us  ?  behold,  thy  father  and  I  have  sought 
thee  sorrowing.  And  He  said  unto  them,  How  is  it  that  ye  sought  me? 
wist  ye  not  that  I  must  be  about  my  Father's  business  ?" 

Jesus  Christ,  at  the  age  of  twelve,  was  aware  of  His  great  mission 
in  the  world,  and  in  this  day,  twenty  centuries  since  the  Boy  of  Nazareth 
lived,  it  is  most  inspiring  to  know  that  young  men  at  the  age  of  twelve  are 
given  definite  Priesthood  responsibilities.  The  Boy  of  Nazareth  received 
His  training  and  assignments  under  the  old  Mosaic  law.  The  young 
servants  of  God  today  receive  their  assignments  and  Priesthood  training 
under  the  law  of  the  divine  direction  of  Jesus  Christ,  who  has  set  in  mo- 
tion the  great  training  program  for  the  young  men  of  the  Church.  The 
Priesthood  extended  to  young  men  is  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  after  the 
order  of  Aaron,  the  heritage  of  which  belongs  to  the  descendants  of 
Aaron  and  Levi;  but  until  such  time  as  these  descendants  claim  their 
Priesthood  inheritance  of  necessity  the  work  is  being  carried  on  by  the 
heirs  of  Ephraim  and  Manasseh,  whose  heritage  is  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood.  However,  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  for  these  young  men  be- 
comes a  great  school  of  preparation  for  the  higher  order  of  the  Priest- 
hood, the  Melchizedek  Priesthood. 

The  Aaronic  Priesthood  and  Its  Functions 

The  Lord,  in  making  known  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  the  powers  and 
the  rights  of  the  Priesthood,  indicated  in  the  107th  section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants :  "Why  it  is  called  the  lesser  Priesthood  is  because  it  is  an 
appendage  to  the  greater,  or  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  and  has  power 
in  administering  outward  ordinances."  (D.  &  C.  107:14.)  This  state- 
ment of  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  has  provoked  some  thinking  on 
my  part,  particularly  as  the  Priesthood  is  related  to  Latter-day  Saint 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


81 


homes.  If  every  Latter-day  Saint  home  were  in  order  as  it  should  be, 
the  head  of  that  home  would  be  one  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood, 
the  Priesthood  after  the  order  of  the  Son  of  God,  and  all  the  sons  in  that 
home  of  the  age  of  twelve  and  over  would  hold  the  Aaronic  Priesthood, 
an  appendage  to  the  higher  Priesthood. 

It  occurs  to  me  that  after  all,  a  son  is  an  appendage  to  his  father.  He 
is  a  part  of  his  father,  and  how  glorious  it  is  to  contemplate  the  relation- 
ship of  father  and  son  in  connection  with  the  holy  Priesthood  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  As  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  is  an  appendage  to  the  Mel- 
chizedek Priesthood,  the  son  is  an  appendage  to  his  father,  and  hence  they 
become  one  in  the  work  of  the  Boy  of  Nazareth. 

One  of  the  evidences  of  the  divine  origin  of  the  Priesthood  is  in  its 
organization.  Standing  at  the  head  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  in  every 
ward  as  the  presidency  are  three  high  priests,  constituting  the  bishopric 
of  the  ward.  The  young  men  of  the  Church  come  in  contact  with  and 
immediately  under  the  direction  of  these  common  judges  in  Israel,  these 
men  who  are  endowed  with  inspiration  from  on  high  to  guide  and  direct 
the  destiny  of  these  young  servants  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  The  bish- 
op, according  to  divine  revelation,  stands  at  the  head  of  the  priests'  quor- 
um, the  Lord  making  it  known  to  Joseph  Smith :  "Also  the  duty  of  the 
president  over  the  Priesthood  of  Aaron  is  to  preside  over  forty-eight 
priests,  and  sit  in  council  with  them,  to  teach  them  the  duties  of  their 
office,  as  is  given  in  the  covenants — This  president  is  to  be  a  bishop ;  for 
this  is  one  of  the  duties  of  this  Priesthood."  (D.  &  C.  107:87,  88.)  This 
is  as  it  should  be,  for  as  a  boy  passes  from  adolescence  to  young  man- 
hood, the  Lord's  servant,  the  bishop,  becomes  his  counselor,  becomes  the 
president  of  the  priests'  quorum  to  which  he  belongs,  preparing  him  to 
function  in  the  office  of  a  priest  as  did  John  the  Baptist  of  old,  and 
eventually  so  qualifying  him  that  he  may  receive  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood. 

As  with  a  bishop,  so  with  his  first  and  second  counselors.  These  men 
constitute  a  part  of  the  presidency  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  of  a  ward. 
Therefore,  the  first  counselor  should  be  intensely  interested  in  the  wel- 
fare of  teachers  or  deacons  and  the  same  applies  to  the  second  counselor, 
affording  a  training  for  the  twelve-year-old  and  the  fifteen-year-old  boy 
which  will  qualify  them  to  receive  higher  offices  in  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood. 

Duties  of  Bishop  In  Relation  To  the  Aaron  rc  Priesthood 

The  bishopric  of  the  ward  participates  in  all  of  the  steps  which  mark 
a  young  man's  spiritual  progress.  First,  in  fast  meeting,  under  the  direc- 
tion of  the  bishopric,  the  infant  boy  is  presented  to  the  Lord  to  receive 
a  father's  blessing  and  a  name.  Second,  the  bishopric  directs  his  baptism, 
and  in  fast  meeting  assembled,  directs  his  confirmation.  Third,  the 
Priesthood  is  conferred  upon  him  under  the  hands  of  the  bishopric,  as 
Aaron  conferred  it  upon  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery.  Fourth, 
the  bishopric  recommends  him  for  advancement  to  the  Melchizedek 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  7  Second  Day 

Priesthood.  Fifth,  the  bishopric  recommends  him  to  the  First  Presidency 
for  missionary  service.  Sixth,  the  bishop  of  the  ward  issues  a  certificate 
of  worthiness  in  evidence  of  clean,  sweet  living,  which  permits  the  young 
man  to  enter  the  house  of  the  Lord  to  receive  his  endowments  and  be 
sealed  to  his  life's  mate  for  time  and  eternity. 

As  we  contemplate  the  relationship  established  by  the  divine  Priest- 
hood of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  between  young  men  and  the  bishopric  of 
the  Church,  it  should  be  a  great  source  of  inspiration  and  motivation,  not 
only  to  youth  but  to  parents  and  the  men  who  preside  over  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood,  parents  and  members  of  bishoprics  cooperating  together  to 
the  end  that  these  young  men  may  become  more  than  the  Jewish  boy  at 
twelve,  a  son  of  the  law,  but  instead  well-trained,  devoted,  faithful  ser- 
vants of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

No  young  man  can  render  service  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  sincere- 
ly without  feeling  the  influence  of  the  Boy  of  Nazareth.  For  example, 
the  deacon  who  participates  in  the  administration  of  the  sacrament  must 
think  of  the  fact  that  Jesus  Christ  was  the  first  to  pass  the  sacrament  to 
the  congregation.  It  should  have  a  beautiful  and  sacred  influence  upon 
the  mind  and  heart  of  every  deacon. 

The  ordained  teacher,  whose  right  and  duty  it  is,  as  the  Lord  indi- 
cates in  the  20th  section  of  the  Doctrine  &  Covenants,  verse  53,  "to  watch 
over  the  Church  always,  and  be  with  and  strengthen  them,"  is  afforded 
a  magnificent  opportunity  in  connection  with  their  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood companions  in  watching  over  the  flock  and  particularly  in  training 
young  men  in  the  great  art  of  teaching  the  divine  laws  of  the  gospel.  He 
learns  to  express  himself  freely,  and  in  preparing  a  message  for  the 
people,  he  unconsciously  converts  himself  to  the  great  truths  of  the  re- 
stored Gospel.  Again  this  duty  of  teaching  the  people  follows  the  example 
of  the  Boy  of  Nazareth,  for  he  was  the  Great  Teacher. 

The  office  of  a  priest  is  one  of  the  most  inspirational  offices  of  the 
entire  Priesthood  because  of  the  duties  involved.  To  kneel  at  the  sacra- 
ment table  and  utter  the  revealed  blessings  on  the  bread  and  water  as 
Christ  repeated  them  before  His  assembled  apostles  should  inspire  a 
young  man  to  the  most  high  and  noble  motives  and  impress  upon  him  the 
necessity  of  living  a  sweet,  clean  life.  The  privilege  of  performing  the 
ordinance  of  baptism  is  one  which  must  impress  upon  the  young  priest 
the  reality  of  the  Priesthood  and  the  authority  that  it  carries,  for  no 
young  man  could  utter  the  revealed  baptismal  prayer  without  feeling  that 
he  has  indeed  been  commissioned  of  Jesus  Christ.  With  uplifted  hand, 
he  declares  to  the  candidate  and  to  the  world,  "Having  been  commissioned 
of  Jesus  Christ,  I  baptize  you  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son, 
and  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Amen."  The  utterance  of  the  prayer  gives  him 
the  assurance,  the  testimony,  that  his  authority  is  valid,  that  the  visita- 
tion of  John  the  Baptist  was  a  reality,  and  that  the  priesthood  he  holds 
was  handed  down  from  John  the  Baptist  through  Joseph  Smith. 

Opportunity  for  Service 

The  Aaronic  Priesthood  affords  the  privilege  of  service,  and  with  that 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


83 


service  there  comes  a  fundamental  training  in  Priesthood  work  to  the 
end  that  some  day  these  young  servants  of  the  Lord  will  receive  their 
Priesthood  inheritance,  namely  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  which 
Priesthood  is  after  the  order  of  the  Son  of  God.'  In  the  minds  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric,  there  is  no  question  but  what  this  sacred  privilege 
of  Priesthood  service  will  inculcate  into  the  hearts  of  these  youthful 
servants  a  testimony  of  the  restored  Gospel,  and  they  will  become 
thoroughly  familiar  with  the  fundamental  principles  of  the  plan  of  life 
and  salvation.  They  are  taught  to  be  clean  in  body  and  mind  by  observ- 
ing God's  law  of  health  and  to  observe  the  law  of  dependability,  for  an 
assignment  to  pass  the  sacrament,  to  teach  the  people,  to  bless  the  sacra- 
ment, or  to  baptize  someone  is  equivalent  to  keeping  an  appointment  with 
Jesus  Christ.  The  lesson  of  rendering  service  unto  others  exemplifies 
the  second  part  of  the  first  great  commandment,  "Love  thy  neighbor  as 
thyself."  The  payment  of  tithing  is  a  manifestation  of  their  desire  to 
return  to  the  Lord  His  portion  for  the  building  up  and  sustaining  of  His 
kingdom  here  upon  the  earth.  Participation  in  the  welfare  program  af- 
fords a  training  and  experience  that  will  qualify  them  fully  for  the  carry- 
ing on  of  this  most  important  work  when  they  obtain  a  place  in  the  Mel- 
chizedek Priesthood. 

Testimony  of  A  Young  Man 

A  great  deal  is  said  about  the  problem  of  juvenile  delinquency,  but 
how  often  do  we  consider  that  in  our  hands  rests  the  solutions  and  the 
implements  whereby  the  youth  of  Israel  can  be  so  trained  that  they  will 
accept  the  declaration  of  the  Boy  of  Nazareth,  "Wist  ye  not  that  I  must 
be  about  my  Father's  business?"  Any  young  man  trained  properly  and 
fully  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  will  so  live  that  his  parents  will  never  be 
plagued  with  any  kind  of  problem  in  juvenile  delinquency.  An  illustra- 
tion of  what  Priesthood  training  will  do  for  a  young  man  supported  by 
excellent  parents  came  to  my  attention  in  a  recent  conference  wherein  a 
young  man  was  invited  to  speak.   He  said : 

Brethren  and  sisters,  in  two  days  I  will  be  eighteen  years  of  age,  and 
you  know  what  that  means  to  me.  I  expect  to  be  inducted  into  the  armed 
services  of  my  country.  To  many  this  seems  a  hard  thing  for  one  as  young 
as  I,  but  it  is  easy,  for  there  burns  in  my  heart  a  testimony  of  the  divinity 
of  this  great  work,  and  because  of  that  testimony,  my  heart  is  filled  to  over- 
flowing with  gratitude  for  the  many  blessings  the  Lord  has  so  generously 
bestowed  upon  me.  I'm  grateful  for  my  beloved  parents,  grateful  for  the 
Priesthood  I  bear,  and  grateful  for  the  knowledge  that  should  my  life  be 
taken  in  battle,  I  shall  return  to  Him  who  gave  me  life.  I'm  grateful  for  the 
opportunity  of  mortality,  and  the  spirit  of  testimony  which  whispers  to  me 
that  I  shall  again  have  my  father  and  mother  and  that  the  privilege  of  serv- 
ing the  Lord  on  the  other  side  shall  be  made  available  to  me. 

The  attitude  of  this  young  man,  his  testimony,  his  cleanliness,  his 
implicit  faith  are  all  the  results  of  a  splendid  home  and  his  loyal  devoted 
service  in  the  cause  of  the  Boy  of  Nazareth. 


84  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Dey 

Adults  Holding  Aaronic  Priesthood 

Bishops  preside  over  young  men  from  twelve  to  twenty-one  years  of 
age,  but  there  is  another  great  army  of  36,880  men  over  the  age  of  twenty- 
one  in  the  wards  and  stakes  of  the  Church,  still  holding  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood.  It  is  needless  to  point  out  to  you  that  they,  too,  are  your  re- 
sponsibility and  mine,  and  these  souls  are  precious  in  the  sight  of  the 
Good  Shepherd.  There  devolves  upon  us  the  responsibility  to  so  motivate 
them  and  inspire  them  to  the  end  that  they  will  qualify  and  make  them- 
selves worthy  to  receive  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  and  all  of  its  attend- 
ant blessings. 

The  future  of  the  Church  depends  upon  the  youth  of  today.  Their 
leadership  will  be  no  more  effective  nor  efficient  than  that  for  which  you 
and  I  qualify  and  train  them. 

May  we  inspire  every  boy  and  young  man  who  comes  under  our  di- 
rection to  so  live  the  gospel  and  feel  the  importance  of  the  priesthood 
that  the  young  sisters,  the  companions  of  these  boys  and  young  men, 
will  also  be  influenced  to  live  righteously.  Then,  at  some  future  date, 
because  of  their  virtuous  lives,  these  young  men  and  women  will  enjoy 
the  blessings  of  the  Priesthood  together  with  their  life's  companions. 
May  the  Lord  bless  us  to  the  end  that  our  efforts  in  behalf  of  these  young 
servants  of  the  Boy  of  Nazareth  may  bring  into  fruition  his  statement, 
"Wist  ye  not  that  I  must  be  about  my  Father's  business  ?"  which  I  humbly 
pray  will  be  the  blessing  not  only  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  but  of  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood  and  every  mother  and  every  daughter  in  Israel. 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

As"  an  example  of  the  doubts  and  the  vain  philosophies  in  the  minds 
of  some  of  our  young  people  I  want  to  read  you  a  few  statements  con- 
tained in  an  article  that  appeared  in  a  publication  from  our  own  state 
university  during  the  last  few  weeks : 

A  Young  Student's  Idea 

Heaven  is  for  children.  To  the  child's  mind  it  is  real.  For  the  adult 
it  belongs  to  the  world  of  fantasy  and  make-believe.  If  we  have  become 
adults .  we  have  left  the  idea  of  heaven  behind.  Perhaps  the  only  mature 
individual  who  finds  the  everyday  exhilarating  and  promising  is  the  one 
who  has  supplanted  his  childhood  beliefs  in  another  worldly  heaven  with 
confidence  in  a  heaven  on  earth.  . .  .  The  modern  world  is  concerned  chiefly 
with  ethics  rather  than  with  theology,  with  better  living  than  with  the 
methodical  analysis  of  the  hereafter. 

I  suspect  that  that  young  student  was  thinking  of  the  kind  of  heaven 
that  too  frequently  is  pictured,  which  requires  much  hymn  singing  and 
ever  so  much  praying  with  rows  and  rows  of  saints  kneeling  in  perpetual 
adoration  as  a  continuous  occupation ;  and  perhaps  his  idea  of  God  and 
the  Creator  is  similar  to  that  which  has  been  expressed  by  one  writer  who 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


85 


spoke  of  God  as  "a  sleepless  active  energy  that  actuates  all  things,  so 
small  and  yet  so  complex  as  to  dwell  in  the  wonderful  energies  of  life  and 
sound  and  electricity,  in  the  vital  processes  of  human  and  animal  form, 
in  the  motivating  influences  of  the  human  heart,"  and  so  on.  Such  a  one, 
who  believes  thus,  would  have  no  faith  in  the  teachings  of  the  scriptures 
or  an  understanding  of  their  import.  To  one  such  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  would  be  relegated  to  a  mere  organization  of  man,  lacking  either 
the  reason  for  or  the  authority  to  administer  the  ordinances  of  salvation. 

Heaven  A  Reality 

Heaven,  as  we  have  usually  conceived  it,  is  the  dwelling  place  of  the 
righteous,  after  they  have  left  this  earth  life,  and  the  place  where  God  and 
Christ  dwell.  Of  this  happy  state  the  Apostle  Paul  said,  "Eye  hath  not 
seen,  nor  ear  heard,  neither  have  entered  into  the  heart  of  man  the  things 
which  God  hath  prepared  for  them  that  love  Him."  The  location  of  the 
place  was  made  clear  by  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  to  us  in  this  day 
when  he  said  that  the  earth  was  to  be  the  abiding  place  of  those  who  were 
to  inherit  the  celestial  glory  and  that  it  would  be  cleansed  from  impurity 
in  order  to  become  that  holy  place.  How  the  earth  was  to  be  prepared 
for  that  condition  is  indicated  in  brief  visions  recorded  by  a  prophet  who 
said  he  "saw  a  new  heaven  and  a  new  earth."  (Rev.  21  :l-4.)  Another 
said  "and  the  end  shall  come  and  the  heaven  and  the  earth  shall  be  con- 
sumed and  pass  away,  and  there  shall  be  a  new  heaven  and  a  new  earth." 
(D.  &  C.  29:23.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph,  speaking  of  the  condition  in  which  the  earth 
would  then  be,  after  that  cleansing  and  that  purification,  in  its  immortal 
state,  declared  that  the  earth  would  be  as  a  crystal  and  a  Urim  and  Thum- 
mim  unto  those  who  would  dwell  upon  it.  The  interim  dwelling  place 
of  the  spirits,  while  this  great  change  is  taking  place,  is  indicated  in  the 
revelation  where  the  Prophet  speaks  of  "a  place  of  happiness  called  para- 
dise, a  state  of  rest,  a  state  of  peace,  where  they  shall  rest  from  all  their 
troubles  and  from  all  care  and  sorrow."  This  rest  spoken  of  was  not  to 
be  a  condition  of  inactivity  but  rather  was  to  be  what  the  Lord  called  it, 
a  place  where  men  and  women  were  to  enjoy  the  "fullness  of  his  glory." 
To  say  that  there  would  be  no  such  a  place  as  the  state  where  one  could 
have  rewards  or  punishments  for  the  things  done  in  the  flesh,  would  be 
to  say  that  there  would  be  no  such  a  thing  as  a  judgment ;  and  to  say  that 
there  would  be  no  judgment  would  be  to  deny  that  there  was  atonement 
for  the  sins  of  mankind  or  that  Jesus  Christ  was  the  author  of  salvation, 
the  plan  by  which  man  could  be  sanctified  for  that  holy  state.  To  say  that 
there  was  no  such  a  thing  as  the  atonement  would  be  to  define  sin  merely 
as  a  philosophical  formula.  If  one  were  to  doubt  in  a  life  after  death  or 
in  a  resurrection  from  the  dead,  as  such  a  belief  would  imply,  then  man 
would  be  of  all  men  most  miserable,  because  he  lacks  faith  in  that  which 
would  follow  after  her  life  here  upon  this  earth. 

I  have  tried  to  think  how  a  man  would  guide  his  life  if  he  had  this 
sort  of  feeling  and  this  disbelief  in  heavenly  things.  Life,  with  its  fleet- 


r 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Dag 

ing  opportunities,  it  seems  to  me,  would  be  a  mad  scramble  for  the  satisfy- 
ing of  one's  selfish  ambitions  and  the  seeking  of  worldly  gain.  Against 
that  the  Master  declared  himself  in  a  parable  where  He  spoke  of  the  man 
of  affluence  who  was  seeking  about  for  a  place  wherewith  to  bestow  his 
goods : 

And  he  said,  This  will  I  do:  I  will  pull  down  my  barns,  and  build 
greater ;  and  there  will  I  bestow  all  my  fruits  and  my  goods.  And  I  will 
say  to  my  soul,  Soul,  thou  hast  much  goods  laid  up  for  many  years ;  take 
thine  ease,  eat,  drink,  and  be  merry.  But  God  said  unto  him,  Thou  fool, 
this  night  thy  soul  shall  be  required  of  thee :  then  whose  shall  those  things 
be,  which  thou  hast  provided?  So  is  he  that  layeth  up  treasure  for  himself, 
and  is  not  rich  toward  God.  (Luke  12:18-21.) 

Faith  In  Heavenly  Things  An  Anchor 

Without  the  discipline  of  the  rewards  and  punishment  that  are  spok- 
en of  in  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation,  passions  and  appetites  would  go 
on  unbridled ;  vice  and  crime  would  go  on  unchecked  and  wickedness 
would  stalk  our  days.  If  the  Church  is  but  man-conceived,  then  our  care 
of  the  needy  would  not  be  for  the  spiritual  and  temporal  welfare  of  those 
who  are  to  be  assisted,  but  our  care  would  be  extended,  as  is  the  case 
with  so  many  public  institutions,  merely  with  the  political  or  the  social 
or  the  economic  welfare  of  the  state  or  of  the  individuals  who  administer 
it  as  the  chief  consideration. 

I  have  a  feeling  that  whenever  we  have  among  our  leaders  those  who 
would  say  that  the  care  of  the  needy  should  be  left  to  public  institutions 
and  not  to  the  Church,  there  we  have  men  who  lack  the  spiritual  insight 
into  the  spiritual  values  involved  in  caring  for  the  unfortunate. 

In  the  parable  of  the  Savior  at  the  close  of  the  great  Sermon  on 
the  Mount  He  taught  very  plainly  the  doctrine  that  the  storms  of  life 
would  descend  upon  the  wise  as  well  as  the  foolish  and  by  inference,  up- 
on the  good  as  well  as  the  bad,  upon  the  rich  and  the  poor,  and  that  only 
those  would  survive,  when  those  tests  and  trials  should  come,  who  had 
built  their  house  upon  the  rock,  because  they  had  listened  to  the  things 
which  the  Lord  had  taught  them  concerning  the  Gospel  plan. 

In  battle  those  with  faith  in  heavenly  things  forbid  a  dangerous 
fatalism  that  of ttimes  induces  carelessness  and  recklessness  in  combat  as 
well  as  in  private  conduct.  The  kind  of  difficulty  in  which  our  young 
men  today  find  themselves,  the  terrible  struggles  through  which  they 
are  passing  in  battle,  is  revealed  in  an  interesting  bulletin  we  have  just 
received  from  one  of  our  chaplains  down  in  the  Italian  area.  He  starts 
this  bulletin  by  quoting  from  President  Grant's  great  blessing  to  the  boys 
in  the  military  service  some  time  ago.  As  I  heard  President  Grant  de- 
clare again  a  blessing  upon  our  boys,  I  thought  how  well  it  would  be  if 
the  bishops  of  wards  and  the  presidents  of  stakes  who  have  chaplains  or 
our  coordinators  from  their  stakes  now  serving  with  the  armed  forces 
would  write  out  that  message  and  ask  that  they  include  it  in  their  publica- 
tions so  that  every  boy  in  the  service  might  have  the  chance  to  have  the 
words  and  the  power  of  that  blessing. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


87 


Experiences  of  Boys  In  the  Army 

Here  was  the  description  of  some  of  the  conditions  of  four  hundred 
fifty  of  our  boys  who  were  in  that  African  and  Italian  area : 

Two  of  our  brethren  in  the  infantry  were  killed  during  the  month  on 
the  beachhead.  The  base  censor  has  informed  us  that  their  names  may  not 
yet  be  divulged.  I  recall  the  last  time  I  saw  them.  It  was  at  a  sacrament 
service  in  a  make-shift  medical  dispensary  in  a  town  taken  a  short  time 
previously.  One  of  them  administered  the  sacrament.  Our  pioneer  fore- 
fathers used  to  sing,  "And  should  we  die  before  our  journey's  through, 
happy  day,  all  is  well.  We  then  are  free  from  toil  and  sorrow,  too,  with 
the  just  we  shall  dwell."  Those  appropriate  words,  "Come,  Come  Ye 
Saints,"  seem  to  particularly  apply  to  our  day.   It  probably  will  be  welcome 

news  that   who  was  formerly  reported  missing  in  action  is  now 

definitely  known  as  a  prisoner  of  war  in  Germany.    is  in 

the  hospital  convalescing  from  a  shell  fragment  wound  in  his  leg.  Lieu- 
tenant  who  was  referred  to  last  month  as  being  grateful 

for  escaping  with  his  life  when  a  German  one  hundred  fifty  millimeter 
shell  struck  his  truck  and  failed  to  explode,  is  this  month  spending  time  in 
a  hospital  recuperating  from  the  after-effects  of  the  thunderous  jolt.  ■ 


-has  been  released  for  duty  again  after  recovering  from  an  en- 


counter with  a  shell  fragment.   ;  is  still  having 

his  injured  foot  looked  after  by  the  medics  but  expects  to  be  returned  to 

duty  shortly.  had  a  brief  career  on  white  sheets 

while  getting  over  the  effects  of  a  mortar  shell  piece  that  crashed  through 
his  helmet  and  grazed  his  scalp.  fell  down  an  eight- 
foot  well  shaft  one  dark  night  recently  while  under  the  range  of  enemy 

guns.  is  being  treated  for  shrapnel  under  the 

arm.  is  being  treated  for  frozen  feet.   Three  other 

L.D.S.  men,  have  been  hospitalized  for  minor  illness  and  so  on. 

Then  he  quotes  two  brief  statements  from  two  of  our  boys  who  have 
written  from  distant  stations  : 

An  artillery  shell  landed  where  I  had  most  recently  been.  I  don't 
know  whether  it  was  luck  or  inspiration  that  caused  me  to  move,  but  what- 
ever it  was  I  am  mighty  thankful. 

And  another  said  this  : 

I  have  one  of  those  pocket  editions  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I  have  just 
completed  reading  it  and  let  me  say  it  is  the  best  book  I  have  ever  read. 
I  was  astounded  at  the  wonderful  prophecies  it  contained.  My  testi- 
mony has  certainly  been  increased  since  I  read  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I 
can  sincerely  say  the  Gospel  means  more  to  me  than  anything  else  in  all 
the  world. 

When  I  see  the  faith  that  such  of  our  young  men  are  exhibiting  I 
say  likewise,  thank  the  Lord  for  the  power  of  the  Gospel  that  they  have 
had  to  guide  them  and  keep  them  safe.  I  contrast  the  words  written  into 
this  statement  of  the  young  student,  in  expressing  a  disbelief  in  a  heaven- 
ly reward,  with  the  picture  of  a  young  man  who  stood  on  the  prow  of 
the  vessel  going  over  toward  the  invasion  coast.  As  the  ship  neared  the 
coast  within  two  hours'  distance  the  men  were  becoming  very  nervous. 
The  commanding  officer  was  anxious  as  to  the  results  of  the  mental 
strain  upon  the  men.  This  young  man  stepped  forward  and  said, 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Day 

"Would  you  mind  if  I  talk  to  the  boys  a  few  minutes  ?"  And  one  who 
heard  his  voice  wrote  home  to  his  father,  a  business  man  in  the  east,  not  a 
member  of  the  Church  and  said,  "Father,  that  boy  talked  to  us  for  two 
hours,  just  a  young  man.  He  told  us  that  even  if  our  lives  were  taken  and 
we  had  lived  good  clean  lives,  we  need  not  be  concerned,  because  God  had 
a  reward  for  the  faithful,  and  we  weren't  dead  actually,  but  we  lived  again 
and  our  spirits  were  more  active  than  they  could  be  here  in  mortality."  He 
said,  "Father,  when  I  inquired  of  that  young  man  as  to  who  he  was,  I  found 
that  he  was  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints." 

In  my  home  the  other  night,  I  had  a  young  man  who  spent  eleven 
months  in  the  Aleutian  Islands,  discharged  because  of  shell-shock  and  in- 
juries, recently  baptized  a  member  of  the  Church.  He  told  of  having  met 
some  of  our  boys  up  in  the  Aleutians,  who  invited  him  to  come  to  their 
Sunday  School.  He  said  to  me : 

Brother  Lee,  the  nearest  thing  I  can  describe  in  comparison  to  my  feelings 
as  I  stood  with  those  boys  and  worshipped  with  them,  was  a  feeling  I  used 
to  have  as  a  little  child  when  I  clung  to  the  knees  of  my  mother  so  that  I 
wouldn't  fall.  Now  the  Gospel  has  meant  just  that  to  me.  I  cling  to  it  as 
I  used  to  cling  to  my  mother,  so  I  will  not  fall. 

As  I  saw  this  young  man  shattered  somewhat  and  in  a  highly  nervous 
state,  because  of  the  recent  shell-shock,  and  in  his  physical  disability  I 
thought  of  the  many  thousands  of  our  boys  who  may  come  home  to  us, 
some  of  them  maimed  and  wounded  as  he,  many  of  them  wounded  in 
their  hearts,  hurt  in  their  thinking,  and  all  of  them  needing  sympathetic 
understanding  and  direction.  I  am  asking  this  body  of  Priesthood — are 
we  recognizing  our  responsibility  as  Priesthood  quorums  of  the  Church 
to  be  the  stay  and  the  guide  of  these  boys  as  they  are  now  in  service  and 
to  be  that  agency  that  will  welcome  them  back  into  the  fraternity  of  ci- 
vilian life? 

A  Plea  for  More  Spiritual  Food 

As  I  thought  of  my  own  childhood  experience  and  that  which  in- 
duced faith  within  me,  I  remember  that  in  our  sacrament  meetings  we 
didn't  expect  those  from  outside  the  ward  to  come  and  speak  to  us  ex- 
cept on  special  assignment.  Every  man  was  expected  to  prepare  him- 
self so  that  when  called  he  could  stand  up,  as  they  said,  "and  give  a  reason 
for  the  hope  that  was  within  him,"  and  I  remember  their  testimonies.  I 
remember  their  doctrinal  discourses.  I  remember  how  I  as  a  boy,  grew 
upon  that  kind  of  spiritual  food.  I  am  asking  today,  are  we  partaking  of 
a  modern  trend  that  makes  of  our  sacrament  meetings  little  else  some- 
times than  a  place  for  political  discussions  or  for  concerts?  This  is  a 
place  and  a  time  when  we  ought  to  do  more  to  teach  the  plain  simple 
doctrines  of  the  Gospel  than  we  have  ever  done  before.  Our  ward  teach- 
ers should  be  prepared  to  go  out  into  the  homes  of  those  who  have  not 
been  privileged  to  come  to  sacrament  meetings.  So  in  all  our  activities 
may  we  be  faithful.  May  we  be  as  the  teachers  of  Zion.  May  we  be  as 
the  Apostle  Paul  said  to  the  Corinthians : 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 


89 


And  I,  brethren,  when  I  came  to  you,  came  not  with  excellency  of 
speech  or  of  wisdom,  declaring  unto  you  the  testimony  of  God. 

For  I  determined  not  to  know  anything  among  you,  save  Jesus  Christ, 
and  Him  crucified. 

And  I  was  with  you  in  weakness,  and  in  fear,  and  in  much  trembling. 

And  my  speech  and  my  preaching  was  not  with  enticing  words  of  man's 
wisdom,  but  in  demonstration  of  the  Spirit  and  of  power : 

That  your  faith  should  not  stand  in  the  wisdom  of  men,  but  in  the 
power  of  God.  (I  Cor.  2:1-5.) 

As  the  leaders  of  Israel,  may  we  so  study  and  prepare  ourselves  that 
we,  like  the  Apostle  Paul,  may  preach  the  doctrines  not  of  the  world  but 
the  doctrines  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  the  faith  of  Israel  might  not 
be  builded  on  the  wisdom  of  man  but  on  the  power  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  I  humbly  pray  in  His  name.  Amen. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "I  Need  Thee  Every  Hour,"  * 
(L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  387). 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  Saints  listening  in  will  be  grateful  to  know  that  President  Grant 
is  with  us,  blessing  us  with  his  presence  again  this  afternoon. 

ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  pray  that  I  may  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the  spirit  of  the  Lord.  After 
thirty-one  years  in  service  with  the  youth  of  this  Church  it  has  been  of 
great  interest  to  me  today  to  hear  so  much  said  about  youth. 

The  Duty  of  Parents 

Recently  at  one  of  our  stake  conferences  one  of  the  leaders  of  the 
stake  said  to  me,  "Brother  Kirkham,  after  the  morning  meeting  I  wish 
you  would  take  the  opportunity  to  walk  home  with  my  son.  I  wish  you 
would  have  a  little  talk  with  him.  He  is  not  going  to  his  Sabbath  School, 
and  I  wish  you  would  have  a  chat  with  him."  So  I  looked  for  the  op- 
portunity. I  took  the  chap  by  the  arm,  and  we  started  down  the  street 
towards  the  home.  I  thought  a  very  good  approach  would  be  for  me  to 
say:  "You  know,  you  have  a  great  father,  a  fine  man,  and  so  I  started 
out  with  words  like  these,  and  then  the  boy  immediately  turned  to  me 
and  said :  "Brother  Kirkham,  I  wish  you  would  talk  to  my  father  for  me. 
In  all  my  life  he  has  never  been  with  me  to  a  movie.  He  has  never  taken 
me  with  him.  I  haven't  even  had  a  game  of  checkers  with  him.  I  would 
appreciate  it."   Well,  we  began  to  talk  about  other  things. 

I  handed  my  own  daughter  recently,  one  of  our  new  publications  in 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Day 

Church  literature  and  calling  her  by  name  I  said,  "Here's  a  fine  book. 
Hope  you'll  read  it  and  enjoy  it."  She  took  the  book ;  then  placed  it  over 
on  the  piano  and  said :  "I'll  tell  you,  father,  I  don't  want  that  book.  I 
want  to  talk  with  you,"  and  I  heard  something  that  pierced  my  heart. 

An  Aaronic  Priesthood  Incident 

I  recently  went  through  the  Southern  States  Mission  and  on  a  number 
of  occasions  we  had  banquets  given  in  honor  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood. 
In  one  of  the  very  large  cities  of  the  southland  they  invited  in  the  mayor 
of  the  city,  the  judge  of  the  juvenile  court,  and  other  dignitaries  to  the 
banquet.  I  shall  never  forget  when  I  saw  the  judge  of  the  juvenile  court 
come  in.  He  was  smoking  a  large  pipe.  He  came  rather  courageously 
up  to  the  front,  a  fine  southern  gentleman,  and  he  came  as  I  suppose  he 
came  to  many  other  banquets  on  other  occasions  like  this.  He  joined 
his  friends  and  the  city  commission,  and  the  mayor  of  the  city  up  at  the 
front.  In  a  few  moments  the  program  began  and  a  boy  arose  and  said : 
"I  have  been  asked  to  speak  about  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  I  am  so  hap- 
py to  know  that  the  Lord  has  favored  me  to  hold  the  Aaronic  Priesthood, 
this  great  blessing  of  my  Heavenly  Father  to  me,  to  hold  his  holy  Priest- 
hood. You  know,  I  can't  smoke ;  I  can't  drink,  for  I  hold  the  Priesthood 
of  God,"  and  then  I  saw  the  juvenile  judge  take  his  napkin  and  without 
much  notice,  cover  his  pipe. 

Expression  of  Confidence  In  the  Youth 

Brethren,  I  wonder  if  we  are  fair.  I  wonder  if  it  is  fair  to  say  it  is 
juvenile  delinquency.  Maybe  it's  juvenile  judge  and  father  delinquency. 
Maybe  that's  the  truth.  Of  course  some  are  delinquent,  but  I  want  to 
appeal  to  you  to  have  faith  in  them.  I  am  thrilled  by  the  faith  of  the 
youth  of  this  Church.  I  feel  in  my  heart  definitely  it  is  the  greatest  gen- 
eration. They  have  come  to  fulfil  destiny.  They  have  come  to  do  a  work 
that  challenges  the  greatest  of  spirits  and  I  feel  they  are  doing  it.  Oh, 
yes,  some  of  them  falter — there  is  a  fringe.   Surely,  there  always  will  be. 

I  went  to  the  university  yesterday,  after  our  afternoon  meeting,  and 
met  four  hundred  fifty-five  youths.  A  member  of  the  faculty  of  that  uni- 
versity said :  "Kirkham,  I've  had  a  great  time  today.  My,  how  thrilling  it  is 
to  meet  the  youth  of  this  generation !"  Then  he  told  me  how  they  chal- 
lenged him  in  his  class  rooms. 

Did  you  hear  of  that  young  man  who  came  home  from  the  South  Seas, 
not  long  ago,  and  when  Sunday  came  he  said :  "Father,  Mother,  let's  go 
to  church  today."  And  the  father  turned  to  him  and  said,  "Say,  that  is 
rather  new.  You've  never  invited  me  to  go  to  church  before."  "Well," 
said  the  young  man,  "I  had  a  great  experience,  Father,  down  in  the  South 
Seas.  One  day  I  was  trading  with  a  black  man.  He  had  a  fine  piece  of 
carved  ivory,  and  I  was  giving  him  a  piece  of  jewelry  in  exchange,  and 
he  handed  the  ivory  over  to  me  and  then  said,  Are  you  sure  you  will  be 
happy  with  this  trade  ?'  and  I  said  to  him,  as  I  caught  the  meaning  of  his 
deeper  thought,  'What  makes  you  ask  me  that  question?'  'Oh,'  said  the 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

■ 


91 


black  man,  'A  few  years  ago  a  missionary  came  to  this  island,  and  he  told 
me  the  story  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  and  he  told  us  if  we  had  real  happi- 
ness it  must  come  from  within.'  " 

"Well,"  said  the  young  man  to  his  father  and  mother,  "I  want  some  of 
that.  I  want  what  the  black  man  had.  I  want  that  in  my  life."  They 
went  to  church. 

I  sincerely  feel  that  1944  will  probably  be  one  of  the  greatest  years 
in  all  recorded  history,  and  I  try  to  say  those  words  very  thoughtfully. 
From  what  has  been  said  by  our  commanding  officers  of  the  armed  forces 
of  the  allies  and  what  has  been  said  by  thoughtful  men,  this  is  to  be  truly 
a  great  year.  I  do  not  know  when  battle  shall  cease,  but  the  leaders  all 
declare  this  is  the  hour  of  destiny. 

We  are  facing  a  great  election  in  the  United  States,  and  men  are  go- 
ing to  be  tried.  We  have  positive  opinions  in  America.  I  hope  we  always 
will  have,  and  that  we  will  understand  each  other  when  we  speak  freely 
in  the  defense  of  our  ideas.  We  must  learn  to  live  together  and  face 
truth  and  speak  it  as  God  gives  us  light. 

I  appeal  to  you,  my  brethren,  and  I  talk  most  to  myself,  may  God 
help  us  that  we  shall  have  faith  in  youth.  May  we  live  worthy  of  their 
leadership.  May  we  search  deeply  into  our  own  lives  for  the  troubles 
about  us,  and  may  God  give  us  strength  to  go  to  him  humbly  in  prayer 
and  obtain  His  spirit,  for  with  that  spirit  we  shall  be  powerful  in  their 
sight,  to  our  own  satisfaction,  to  the  glory  of  God  and  the  furtherance 
of  this  great  work  for  which  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  have  just  heard  from  Elder  Oscar  A.  Kirkham  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy.  Our  next  speaker  will  be  Elder  Mark  E.  Peter- 
sen, the  newly  chosen  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  He  will  be 
followed  by  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

Brother  Petersen,  for  the  people  and  for  your  associates,  I  want 
you  to  know  that  you  are  welcome,  that  we  love  you,  and  that  you  have  our 
unbounded  sympathy  and  support. 

ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Thank  you,  President  Clark,  I  deeply  appreciate  those  words. 

An  Expression  of  Gratitude  for  Blessings 

My  brethren,  it  is  extremely  difficult  for  me  to  address  you  this 
afternoon.  I  was  greatly  shaken  by  the  call  which  came  to  me  yesterday. 
I  feel  that  I  am  the  least  among  you  all.  I  have  never  felt  so  humble  in 
all  my  days,  as  I  do  at  this  present  moment. 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  7  Second  Day 

I  am  indeed  grateful  for  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  am  most 
happy  that  the  Lord  permitted  me  to  be  born  in  a  Latter-day  Saint  home, 
where  my  parents  taught  me  to  believe  in  the  message  which  they  had 
received  in  a  foreign  land,  the  message  which  I  shall  bear  to  all  the  world 
through  the  rest  of  my  life. 

I  am  indeed  grateful  to  my  parents  for  this  great  thing  which  they 
did  for  me,  as  well  as  for  all  other  things  that  they  have  done. 

I  am  thankful  for  the  beautiful  home  life  that  I  have  always  had, 
and  that  I  enjoy  at  the  present  time,  with  a  lovely  family  and  a  wife  who 
stands  by  my  side  and  supports  me  in  every  endeavor  in  the  Church. 

I  am  grateful  for  you,  my  friends,  so  many  of  whom  have  expressed 
to  me  your  good  wishes,  in  telephone  messages  and  letters  which  I  have 
received. 

A  Tribute  to  President  Grant 

My  testimony  has  been  strengthened  through  the  years  by  the  visits 
I  have  made  to  the  Church  offices  as  a  representative  of  The  Deseret 
News.  Twenty  years  ago  it  was  my  pleasure  to  make  my  first  visit  as  a 
reporter  there,  and  to  become  acquainted  with  President  Heber  J.  Grant. 
He  has  thrilled  me  throughout  those  twenty  years.  I  know  as  I  know 
that  I  live  that  he  is  a  prophet  of  Almighty  God.  I  love  him  with  all  my 
soul ;  my  family  loves  him.  We  are  grateful  that  we  can  say  with  you 
that  "We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet." 

I  am  grateful  for  my  association  with  these  other  brethren  who 
stand  at  the  head  of  the  Church.  Most  of  them  I  have  known  for  years, 
and  I  also  love  them  with  all  my  heart.   They  have  been  most  kind. 

A  Pledge  of  Loyalty 

I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  and  the  Son 
of  God.  I  know  it  as  well  as  if  I  had  seen  him,  and  I  shall  take  great 
pleasure  in  declaring  His  word  for  the  remainder  of  my  life. 

I  am  thankful  for  my  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  mission  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  love  him.  I  have  read  all  I  could  find  about 
him.  I  know  that  God  spoke  to  him  and  appeared  to  him,  and  I  know 
that  his  testimony,  for  which  he  died,  is  true. 

I  willingly  and  gladly,  although  most  humbly,  accept  this  great  call 
which  has  come  to  me.  It  certainly  has  humbled  me ;  it  has  humbled  my 
family.  I  pledge  to  you  my  best  effort.  I  love  the  work.  I  shall  give 
it  my  full  strength  and  all  the  talent  which  God  may  give  to  me. 

I  know  that  without  the  help  of  the  Lord  I  am  powerless  to  do  any 
good  in  His  ministry ;  but  I  know  that  if  I  live  righteously,  He  will  be 
with  me.  I  bear  you  my  testimony  to  the  truth  of  this  work,  and  I  do  it 
all  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


93 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen,  the  newly  chosen  member  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us  and  borne  testimony  and  pledged 
a  fealty  which  has  touched  our  hearts  and  will  touch  the  hearts  of  the 
Church. 

Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  next 
speaker. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brethren  and  fellow  workers,  this  has  been  a  very  enjoyable 
conference  to  me,  and  I  know  to  all  of  us.  A  spirit  of  peace  has  been 
here,  and  that  is  as  it  should  be,  for  the  head  of  this  Church  is  the  Prince 
of  Peace. 

That  which  has  been  said  during  these  two  days  has  been  interesting, 
instructive  and  impressive.  I  have  been  built  up  in  my  testimony,  as  well 
as  in  my  knowledge  of  the  Gospel.  I  have  felt  to  thank  the  Lord,  time 
and  again,  as  I  have  looked  into  the  faces  of  you,  my  fellow  workers,  for 
the  faith  and  devotion  to  truth  and  to  the  cause  of  the  Lord,  His  truth, 
which  I  know  abide  in  you. 

Accomplishments  of  the  Church  Reflect  Faith 

I  am  certain  all  of  us  were,  shall  I  say,  astonished,  when  we  heard 
the  report  of  the  year's  activities  of  the  Church.  Most  of  us  had  no  idea, 
living  in  our  little  corners,  doing  our  duty  well  in  them,  how  great  is  the 
accumulation  of  service  the  Church  is  rendering.  The  twig  planted  by 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  under  God's  direction,  on  April  6,  1830,  has 
grown  into  a  mighty  tree,  bearing  bountiful  and  good  fruit. 

The  thing  that  impressed  me,  I  think  more  than  anything  else,  when 
the  report  was  read,  was  that  every  dollar  mentioned,  every  can  of  fruit 
reported,  represented  a  spiritual  value,  greater  than  the  dollars,  better 
than  the  can  itself  or  the  fruit  within  it.  The  dollars  and  the  cans  re- 
flected faith,  faith  in  our  hearts  and  in  our  actions.  It  reflected  the  near- 
ness that  the  Church  of  God  is  building  toward  the  Father  of  us  all. 

When  I  heard  President  Grant's  eloquent,  impressive  address — and 
he  gave  us  the  spirit  of  the  conference — it  was  evident  again  that  this 
Church  is  built  upon  eternal  realities.  I  thought  as  I  heard  the  reading  of 
his  address  of  a  statement  frequently  made  in  sacred  writ,  that  "the 
course  of  God  is  one  eternal  round."  The  Gospel  does  not  vary  nor  depart 
from  truth.  In  every  age,  in  every  dispensation,  in  every  day  and  in  every 
hour,  all  that  we  can  do  is  to  live  righteously  before  the  Lord,  and  to  make 
use  of  the  eternal  principles  which  have  been  handed  down  to  us  from 
the  day  we  lived  in  the  heavens,  and  which  will  continue  to  the  very  end. 
My  heart  has  been  filled  with  gladness  during  this  conference.   I  am 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Dag 

grateful  for  the  calling  into  the  service  of  Brother  Mark  E.  Petersen,  as 
I  am  for  the  other  brethren  who  have  come  into  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
recently,  and  of  course  for  all  who  have  served  longer.  I  have  known 
Brother  Petersen  for  some  time.  He  is  one  of  us,  a  faithful  Latter-day 
Saint.    We  can  trust  him. 

Characteristics  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 

In  preparation  for  this  conference,  I  have  thought  about  the  present 
perplexed  and  pitiful  conditions  of  the  world.  I  was  led  to  turn  back  the 
pages  of  history.  It  is  said  that  "history  repeats  itself,"  and  so  I  thought 
that  perhaps  I  might  discover  some  solution  for  our  present-day  prob- 
lems by  reading  history. 

I  turned,  as  I  often  do,  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  came  into 
this  Church  from  another  Church,  a  man-made  Church,  one  that  is  with- 
out the  substance  of  truth,  though  filled  with  good  people,  deceived  in 
their  belief.  When  I  found  in  this  Church  the  true  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  I  fell  in  love  with  Joseph  Smith.  I  have  been  in  love  with 
him  ever  since. 

So  I  turned  back  to  see  if  I  might  discover  something  that  he  had 
said  that  might  help  me  in  clearing  my  own  thinking.  If  you  are  willing, 
let  me  take  you  back  a  hundred  years. 

A  hundred  years  ago  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  living  out  the 
last  twelve  months  of  his  life  on  earth.  It  must  have  been  a  terrible  year 
for  him.  Enemies,  and  bitterness  of  feeling  sprang  up  on  every  hand 
against  the  people  and  leaders  of  the  Church.  Lawsuits  followed  lawsuit. 
There  was  no  peace,  especially  for  Joseph  and  his  brother,  Hyrum.  It 
would  seem,  as  one  reads  the  story  of  that  year,  that  the  events  that  trans- 
pired during  those  twelve  months  were  too  trying  to  be  endured  by  ordi- 
nary mortal  man. 

Therefore,  I  was  thrilled  when  I  found  the  Prophet's  own  words 
as  to  how  he  felt  in  the  midst  of  tribulation  and  persecution,  when  facing 
death,  for  he  no  doubt  knew  that  eventually  his  enemies  would  destroy 
his  life.  He  expressed  a  great  calm  of  spirit.  In  the  midst  of  the  storm 
and  stress  of  the  day  he  was  calm.  There  was  a  majesty  of  calmness 
about  him  as  he  said : 

The  Great  Jehovah  has  ever  been  with  me.  The  wisdom  of  God  will 
direct  me  in  the  seventh  hour.  I  feel  in  closer  communion  and  better  stand- 
ing with  God  than  I  ever  felt  before. 

In  substance,  that  message  has  been  given  over  and  over  again  in 
this  conference,  for  it  is  another  way  of  stating  the  results  of  obedience 
to  the  great  eternal,  everlasting  truths  of  the  gospel.  Would  we  not 
all  like  to  be  able  to  say  that  the  great  Jehovah  has  ever  been  with  us, 
that  the  wisdom  of  God  directs  us  in  the  seventh  hour ;  and  that  we  feel 
in  closer  communion  and  better  standing  with  God  than  we  had  ever  felt 
before  ? 

As  I  read  that  message,  I  began  to  understand  how  he  could  walk 
as  a  king,  in  the  midst  of  circumstances  of  distress  and  persecution  which 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


95 


marked  the  last  year  of  his  life,  though  not  peculiar  to  that  year,  for  he 
was  ever  persecuted,  even  feeling  the  attempts  of  the  Evil  One  to  destroy 
him  and  his  work. 

Experiences  of  the  Prophet's  Last  Year 

The  experiences  of  his  last  year  came  to  a  culmination  in  the  great 
April  conference  of  1844.  It  began  on  Saturday,  the  6th  of  April.  It 
continued  through  until  Tuesday — four  days.  The  weather  was  good, 
almost  perfect.  More  people  attended  that  conference  than  had  ever 
gathered  before  at  any  Latter-day  Saint  conference. 

The  Prophet  was  not  feeling  his  best  physically.  He  said  on  the 
first  day  that  his  lungs  troubled  him,  and  the  sermon,  which  he  had 
promised  to  deliver,  he  would  give  the  next  day.  On  Sunday  he  did  give 
it.  It  is  one  of  the  most  marvelous  messages  ever  given  to  humanity, 
spoken  by  human  lips. 

That  conference  was  remarkable  in  many  ways.  The  Prophet's 
mind  seemed  to  sweep,  as  it  were,  the  horizons  of  eternity.  He  touched 
upon  the  things  that  are  far  beyond — the  things  of  eternity.  This  sermon 
is  known  in  our  history  as  the  "King  Follett  Sermon,"  a  most  remark- 
able document.  I  am  glad  that  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  included  it 
in  his  Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

He  taught  revealing  doctrines  never  clearly  told  before,  since  Christ, 
or  perhaps  since  Adam,  of  the  nature  of  God,  our  Heavenly  Father,  and 
of  the  destiny  of  man.  The  doctrine  as  there  taught  has  become  in- 
corporated into  our  thinking  and  writing,  in  our  books  and  sermons, 
without  knowing  exactly  when  or  how  it  was  first  stated. 

It  was  at  that  conference  that  the  land  of  Zion  was  defined.  The 
people  who  had  joined  the  Church — ordinary  people  like  ourselves — had 
perhaps  thought  of  Kirtland  or  Missouri,  as  the  land  of  Zion.  But  at 
this  conference  the  Prophet  said  that  the  land  of  Zion  is  all  of  America — 
North  America  and  South  America.  As  we  read  this  account,  our  minds 
go  back  to  the  days  soon  after  Christ,  when  Peter  himself  was  inclined 
to  believe  that  the  gospel  was  for  a  limited  few,  in  a  limited  place,  until 
God  himself,  by  revelation,  taught  Peter  that  God's  work  is  for  all  the 
world  and  all  who  dwell  upon  it,  who  have  dwelt  upon  it,  and  who  shall 
dwell  upon  it. 

It  was  at  this  conference  that  the  Prophet — (I  wonder  sometimes  if 
he  foresaw  that  in  three  months  he  would  be  martyred) — bore  down  on 
the  people  to  finish  the  temple,  and  to  secure  their  endowments,  as  among 
the  most  important  things  for  them  to  do. 

At  this  conference,  missionary  work  was  also  stressed.  Brigham 
Young  and  Hyrum  Smith  both  discoursed  earnestly  on  missionary  work. 

As  I  read  the  minutes  of  the  conference,  I  said  to  myself :  "These 
teachings  are  like  those  of  1944 — the  same  subjects,  objectives,  and  re- 
quirements, and  the  same  obligations,  and  the  same  eternal  truths  to  guide 
us  in  our  work." 

It  was  in  this  conference  that  the  revelation  came  relative  to  stakes. 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  7  Second  Day 

Stakes  of  Zion  had  been  organized  before,  but  the  Prophet  said  on  this 
occasion : 

"I  have  received  instructions  from  the  Lord  that  henceforth  where- 
ever  the  elders  of  Israel  shall  build  up  Churches  and  branches  unto  the 
Lord  throughout  the  states,  there  shall  be  a  stake  of  Zion  organized." 

He  mentioned  specifically  that  in  course  of  time  stakes  should  be 
organized  in  New  York  City  and  in  Boston.  Part  of  that  prediction  is 
already  fulfilled,  for  we  have  a  stake  in  New  York. 

It  was  a  great  conference.  But,  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  ever  been 
willing  to  apply  eternal  truths  to  everyday  needs.  You  recall  that  Elder 
Lee  said  that  we  are  a  practical  people.  We  believe  that  the  great  things 
of  life  begin  here,  today,  and  that  we  have  the  right  to  enjoyment  and 
happiness,  today,  as  in  the  great  day  to  come. 

So,  the  Prophet,  during  his  last  year,  spoke  frequently  upon  practical 
matters.  I  have  not  the  time  to  discuss  his  views  relative  to  the  building 
of  a  commonwealth,  the  relationship  between  industry,  agriculture,  and 
manufacturing.  That  which  he  said  is  good  reading  today,  and  might  be 
read  with  profit  by  the  empire-makers  of  today. 

One  thing  which  he  said,  as  he  looked  into  the  future,  refers  to  us, 
I  believe.   He  said: 

"I  prophesy,  in  the  name  of  the  God  of  Israel,  anguish,  and  wrath, 
and  desolation,  and  the  withdrawing  of  the  spirit  of  God  await  this  gen- 
eration until  they  are  visited  with  utter  desolation." 

The  Prophet's  Solution  of  Present  Troubles 

Can  you  pick  up  a  paper  today,  reporting  great  cities  destroyed, 
countrysides  laid  barren,  without  feeling  that  the  Prophet  spoke  as  a 
prophet?  He  not  only  looked  into  the  next  day,  but  into  the  years  to 
come,  and  into  the  ages  that  lie  before. 

But  in  the  spirit  of  the  gospel,  he  set  about  at  once  to  find  a  solu- 
tion, for  coming  distress.  This  is  what  I  found.  I  found  three  principles 
that  appeared  to  be  a  solution  of  the  world's  troubles,  but  specifically 
and  particularly  pertaining  to  the  United  States.  He  was  thinking  about 
the  United  States — they  were  living  in  the  United  States  at  that  time; 
they  had  problems  within  the  States. 

First,  the  Prophet  laid  down  certain  foundation  principles. 

"It  is  our  purpose  to  build  up  and  establish  the  principles  of  right- 
eousness, and  hot  to  break  down  or  destroy."  That  had  a  tremendous 
meaning.  We  seek  to  establish  righteousness — yes;  but  we  are  not 
destroyers;  we  are  builders.  We  accept  all  good,  that  has  come  down 
through  the  years. 

And  he  continues : 

"And  I  proclaim,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  God  Almighty,  that  I  will 
fellowship  nothing  in  this  Church  but  virtue,  integrity,  and  uprightness." 

To  a  man  seeking  for  Mormonism  in  a  nutshell,  perhaps  these  two 
statements  would  be  a  good  offering.  Upon  such  a  platform  the  Prophet, 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WWTSOE  97 

in  the  midst  of  persecution,  could  be  calm,  unruffled,  and  could  carry 
forward  steadily  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

Second,  he  declared  the  necessity  for  full  conformity  with  the  Con- 
stitution of  the  United  States.  If  we  desire  prosperity,  we  of  this  land 
must  conform  to  the  principles  that  lie  imbedded  in  the  Constitution  of 
the  United  States.  For,  he  said,  through  such  conformity  we  shall  win 
liberty  of  conscience,  and  protection  for  the  weak  and  for  the  oppressed. 
Without  the  preservation  of  this  right  and  protection,  there  is  no  true 
freedom.  The  Church  has  ever  fought  for  the  untrammeled  conscience. 
The  great  welfare  program  is  but  the  working  out  of  the  principle  in- 
herent in  the  Gospel ;  that  the  weak  and  the  oppressed  shall  be  protected. 
These  principles  embody  the  very  spirit  of  the  Church. 

Third,  he  laid  down  a  principle  which  comes  home  to  us  this  year. 
Brother  Kirkham  barely  mentioned  it.  It  so  happened  that  in  1844  there 
would  be  a  presidential  election  the  following  fall,  and  the  Prophet  and 
others  spoke  about  the  problems  of  that  election.  Hyrum  Smith,  the 
fellow-martyr  of  the  Prophet,  delivered  an  impassioned  sermon,  giving 
no  quarter  whatever.   I  shall  read  a  passage  or  two  : 

We  engage  in  the  election,  the  same  as  any  other  principle;  you  are 
to  vote  for  good  men,  and  if  you  do  not  do  this,  it  is  a  sin  :  to, vote  for  wicked 
men  would  be  a  sin.  Choose  the  good  and  refuse  the  evil.  Men  of  false 
principles  have  preyed  upon  us  like  wolves  upon  helpless  lambs.  Damn  the 
rod  of  tyranny ;  curse  it.  Let  every  man  use  his  liberties  according  to  the 
Constitution;  ...  we  want  a  president  of  the  United  States,  not  a  party 
president,  but  a  president  of  the  whole  people,  for  a  party  president  dis- 
franchises the  opposite  party.  Have  a  president  who  will  maintain  every 
man  in  his  rights. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Our  concluding  song  will  be  "Praise  to  the  Man,"  words  by  William 
W.  Phelps.  (Song  folder  No.  20,  L.  D.  S.  Hymns  No.  167,  Hymn  Book 
No.  282). 

President  Daniel  J.  Ronnow  of  the  Uvada  Stake,  will  offer  the  clos- 
ing prayer,  after  which  the  Conference  will  adjourn  until  7:00  o'clock 
this  evening.  That  meeting  will  not  be  broadcast.  There  will  be  no  gen- 
eral session  of  the  Conference  tomorrow,  Saturday,  April  8,  although 
there  will  be  a  Bishops'  meeting  tomorrow  evening  at  8:00  p.m.  The 
Conference  will  resume  Sunday  morning  at  10:00  a.m. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Praise  To  The  Man" — Words  by 
William  W.  Phelps  (L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  167). 

Elder  Daniel  J.  Ronnow,  President  of  the  Uvada  Stake,  offered  the 
benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  7  p.m. 

4 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  ■        Second  Day 

■ 

SECOND  DAY 
EVENING  MEETING 

The  fifth  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  7  o'clock  p.m. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus  was  in  attendance  and  furn- 
ished music  for  this  session. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Brother  Cornwall  has  been  good  enough  to  bring  tonight  to  sing 
for  us  the  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus.  He  has  not  been  entirely 
satisfied  with  us.  We  know  that  a  great  many  of  you  brethren  can  sing 
the  parts  as  well  as  the  lead,  as  we  call  it — I  do  not  know  what  the  techni- 
cal name  is — and  I  hope  that  when  we  come  again  together  and  do  our 
own  singing,  that  you  brethren  who  can  sing  bass  will  sing  bass,  and 
tenor,  and  whatever  else  there  is  to  sing. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus  will  first  sing  for  us  "Guide 
Me  to  Thee."  (Words  and  music  by  Huish) 


The  congregation  and  Mens'  Chorus  joined  in  singing,  "Lord,  Ac- 
cept Our  True  Devotion." 

Elder  David  L.  Sargent,  President  of  the  Parowan  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus  sang  "Guide  Me  to  Thee" — ■ 
Words  and  Music  by  Huish. 

ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren,  this  is  an  inspiring  sight.  With  you  I  have  rejoiced  in 
the  proceedings  of  the  conference  thus  far;  President  Grant's  great 
message  to  us,  and  then  the  word  that  came  that  Brother  Mark  Petersen 
is  to  be  the  new  Apostle. 

Some  twenty  years  ago  a  young  couple  moved  into  the  ward  where 
I  presided  as  bishop,  and  as  I  approached  them  and  shook  hands  with 
them  the  young  man  said,  "This  is  my  wife,  Marr,  and  I  am  Mark  Peter- 
sen," and  I  said,  "I  hope  you  won't  mar  this  Mark,"  and  she  said,  "I 
won't,"  and  you  can  well  know  that  she  hasn't,  for  truly  she  has  been  an 
inspiration  and  a  blessing  to  this  fine  young  man  who  is  worthy  in  every 
way  to  hold  the  position  to  which  he  has  been  called. 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH  99 

Accomplishments  of  A  Young  Latter-day  Saint 

I  want  to  congratulate  the  Presiding  Bishopric  in  the  job  they  are  do- 
ing for  the  youth  of  this  Church.  A  few  weeks  ago  I  was  in  Lyman 
Stake,  and  a  young  man  by  the  name  of  Amber  C.  Davidson,  a  seventeen- 
year-old  youngster  was  there  taking  part  in  the  exercises  at  stake  con- 
ference. Recently  he  was  awarded  a  twenty-four-hundred-dollar  scholar- 
ship by  the  Westinghouse  people  as  showing  the  most  scientific  aptitude 
of  any  young  man  in  America.  Fifteen  thousand  seniors  from  high 
schools  had  entered  the  contest,  and  this  young  Mormon  lad  won  the 
scholarship.  I  am  sure  that  the  Presiding  Bishopric  had  something  to  do 
with  this.  The  house  was  well  filled  with  lesser  Priesthood  at  that  con- 
ference. These  boys  gain  inspiration  in  all  the  things  they  have  to  do 
from  the  things  that  the  Presiding  Bishopric  are  doing  for  them.  They 
learn  to  know  responsibility,  and  I  am  grateful  for  the  program  that  is 
being  put  into  effect  throughout  the  Church.  After  this  afternoon's  ses- 
sion I  met  a  lady  from  Los  Angeles  who  was  telling  me  that  recently  at 
one  of  her  guilds  a  prominent  lawyer  was  talking  about  the  problems  of 
youth.  Much  has  been  said  about  youth  here  today.  I  remarked  that 
Brother  Oscar  Kirkham  had  said  he  didn't  think  it  was  a  matter  of  the 
youth  being  delinquent,  but  it  was  a  matter  of  parents  who  were  de- 
linquent, and  she  said :  "Do  you  know,  this  lawyer  said  to  us  that  in  the 
community  where  he  was,  whenever  a  child  committed  a  crime  and  there 
was  a  sentence  imposed,  the  sentence  was  imposed  upon  the  parents  and 
they  had  to  serve  the  time  in  jail,  and  that  had  reduced  crime  in  their 
community  down  to  two  percent  of  what  it  had  been."  I  think  parents 
have  something  to  think  about. 

Delinquency  of  Parents 

Recently,  I  received  a  letter  from  a  mother  saying,  "Dear  Brother 
Smith,  would  you  mind  looking  up  my  daughter  and  getting  her  into 
some  good  home  ?  Some  weeks  ago  she  wanted  to  go  to  Salt  Lake.  She 
is  fifteen  years  of  age.  She  really  needs  her  father,  but  he  is  too  busy 
with  the  sheep  to  give  her  much  attention,  but  I  raked  up  ten  dollars  and 
sent  her  to  Salt  Lake  City" — to  start  out  life  at  fifteen  years  of  age.  I 
began  to  check  and  the  scent  led  me  to  the  juvenile  court ;  and  there  I  dis- 
covered that  they  had  found  her  and  had  her  located  and  in  their  pos- 
session. When  I  asked  what  the  difficulty  was,  they  said  she  registered 
at  a  hotel  which  cost  two  and  a  half  dollars  a  day,  and  the  second  day  she 
appeared  with  a  soldier  and  continued  on  with  that  friendship  and  the  ho- 
tel people  permitted  her  to  stay  there  until  the  hotel  bill  was  seventeen  fifty 
and  finally  they  put  her  out,  and  she  and  this  soldier  registered  in  a  Chi- 
nese place  here  in  the  city  as  man  and  wife ;  the  father  was  too  busy  with 
his  sheep  to  give  any  attention  to  his  daughter.  Truly,  parents  are  some- 
times delinquent. 

Conversion  of  A  Young  Woman 
I  thought,  as  Brother  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  was  speaking  about 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  7  Second  Day 

family  prayer,  of  a  little  lady  who,  returning  from  her  mission  field,  came 
to  report  to  me ;  and  I  said,  "That  name  sounds  Italian."  She  said :  "It 
is."  I  said,  "Are  your  parents  members  of  the  Church?"  "Oh,  no," 
she  said.  "Well,"  I  said,  "how  is  it  possible  for  you  to  be  a  Latter-day 
Saint?"  "Well,"  she  said,  "I  went  to  work  for  a  Mormon  family,  and 
the  first  evening  I  was  there  the  father  called  the  family  in  to  prayer, 
and  he  asked  one  of  the  little  youngsters  to  pray  for  the  whole  family, 
and  do  you  know,  Brother  Smith,  that  little  boy  prayed  for  what  he 
wanted,  and  I  had  never  heard  of  such  a  thing  as  asking  the  Lord  for 
what  I  wanted.  I  thought  it  was  such  good  sense  that  I  began  to  go  to 
the  Mormon  Sunday  School  and  finally  became  baptized.  My  parents 
objected  rather  strenuously,  but  finally  gave  consent,  and  then  the  good 
family  with  whom  I  lived  offered  to  finance  my  mission,  and  I  filled  my 
mission  and  I  have  returned  home  and  am  going  back  to  New  Mexico  to 
see  what  I  can  do  with  my  parents."  Truly,  there  are  some  who  have 
family  prayer,  and  isn't  it  a  wonderful  thing  that  such  a  result  could 
come  from  the  prayer  of  an  eight-year-old  child  to  cause  one  to  join  this 
Church? 

Importance  of  Temple  Work  Stressed 

We  should  be  more  exemplary,  all  of  us.  On  this  block  there  stands 
a  temple  dedicated  many  years  ago ;  an  institution  that  should  attract  all 
the  members  of  the  Latter-day  Saint  Church.  The  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  was  very  explicit  in  his  instructions  in  regard  to  temple  work. 
Brigham  Young  declared  it  would  be  the  greatest  work  per- 
formed by  manjDn  this  earth.  Each  of  the  presidents  of  the  Church  has 
been  just  as  emphatic  in  the  importance  of  temple  work.  Wilford  Wood- 
ruff, to  whom  I  listened  as  he  offered  the  dedicatory  prayer  in  the  Salt 
Lake  Temple,  thus  expressed  himself : 

We  want  the  Latter-day  Saints  from  this  time  to  trace  their  gen- 
ealogies as  far  as  they  can  and  be  sealed  to  their  fathers  and  mothers ;  have 
children  sealed  to  parents  and  run  this  chain  through  as  far  as  you  can  get 
it.  This  is  the  will  of  the  Lord  to  his  people.  I  pray  God  that  as  a  people 
our  eyes  may  be  opened  to  see,  our  ears  to  hear  and  our  hearts  to  under- 
stand the  great  and  mighty  work  that  rests  upon  our  shoulders  and  that 
the  God  of  heaven  requires  at  our  hands. 

Lorenzo  Snow  and  Joseph  F.  Smith  have  been  just  as  emphatic. 
President  Grant,  who  has  been  as  fully  awake  to  this  responsibility  as 
any  of  the  others  has  said,  "I  do  not  ask  anybody  who  is  as  busy  as  I  am 
to  go  to  the  temple  any  more  than  I  do.  If  you  can  get  it  into  your  hearts 
and  soul  that  this  is  one  of  the  most  important  things  you  Latter-day 
Saints  can  do,  you  will  find  a  way  to  do  it.  That  is  the  one  lesson  above 
all  others  that  I  would  like  to  impress  upon  you." 

Notwithstanding  these  solemn  admonitions  by  the  presidents  of  the 
Church,  our  people  have  not  taken  very  much  to  temple  work.  I  picked 
up  an  old  report,  1940,  I  think  it  was,  which  showed  that  three  hundred 
eleven  thousand  members  had  taken  out  their  own  endowments  since 
the  first  endowments  were  given.    The  Church  now  has,  as  you  heard 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  L.  WEST  101 

today,  nine  hundred  thirty-seven  thousand  people  in  it — nearly  a  million 
— and  less  than  one  third  of  the  membership  who  now  live  have  taken  out 
their  own  endowments  since  the  beginning  of  the  Church;  and  yet  we 
have  temples  built  and  building.  They  used  to  have  seven  sessions  run- 
ning in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple;  now  they  have  four,  and  many  of  them 
are  not  very  crowded.   Once  in  a  while  you  will  find  a  crowded  session. 

I  wonder  if  it  wouldn't  be  a  good  thing  if  the  Priesthood,  the  shep- 
herds of  the  flock,  would  put  into  the  hearts  and  the  minds  of  the  people 
and  the  membership  of  the  Church  the  thoughts  expressed  by  the  proph- 
ets of  God,  for  you  remember  that  the  Lord  was  so  concerned  about  this 
work  that  one  night  he  sent  an  angel  here  to  earth  to  talk  to  a  boy.  Three 
times  that  night  he  gave  the  selfsame  message.  "Behold,"  said  he  to  this 
boy,  three  times  that  night  and  then  again  the  next  morning : 

Behold,  I  will  reveal  unto  you  the  Priesthood,  by  the  hand  of  Elijah 
the  Prophet,  before  the  coming  of  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord. 
And  he  shall  plant  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  the  promises  made  to  the 
fathers,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children  shall  turn  to  their  fathers.  If  it  were 
not  so,  the  whole  earth  would  be  utterly  wasted  at  His  coming. 

What  a  dramatic  statement.  Now,  mind  you,  up  to  this  time  noth- 
ing had  been  said  about  baptism  for  the  living.  It  seemed  our  Heavenly 
Father  was  so  concerned  about  our  fathers,  our  ancestors,  that  this  was 
the  message  that  seemed  to  be  of  the  greatest  import,  that  the  Priesthood 
was  to  be  revealed  and  that  the  children's  hearts  should  be  turned  to  their 
parents  or  that  the  whole  earth  should  be  wasted  at  His  coming.  Brethren, 
let  us  think  about  these  words  that  come  direct  from  our  Heavenly  Father 
through  his  prophets.  We  are  admonished  to  be  awake  to  our  respon- 
sibilities. 

God  bless  us  and  help  us  to  be  wise,  big  and  broad,  that  we  won't 
get  absorbed  in  just  temple  work  or  in  any  other  one  work,  but  that  we 
may  be  interested  in  the  things  that  the  Lord  wants  us  to  do  and  put  forth 
our  every  effort  to  see  that  our  example  shall  be  one  that  will  be  worth 
while  to  the  flock  over  whom  we  preside,  and  as  we  do  our  part  we  will 
not  need  to  worry  about  the  children.  God  bless  and  inspire  us  and  direct 
us  in  His  Priesthood  to  live  as  He  would  have  us  live  is  my  prayer  in 
Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  FRANKLIN  L.  WEST 

Church  Commissioner  of  Education 

Brethren,  I  sincerely  trust  that  I  will  have  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  to 
guide  and  assist  me  in  order  that  I  may  say  something  that  will  be  of  value 
to  you  in  this  great  work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  It  has  been  a  very 
happy  experience  to  attend  this  great  conference.  It  seems  to  me  that 
there  has  been  quite  a  heavenly  influence.  The  spirit  of  God  has  been 
here  in  rich  abundance,  and  the  messages  that  have  been  given  and  the 
exhortations  and  the  instructions  have  all  been  calculated  for  our  good 
and  for  the  good  of  this  great  cause.  It  makes  us  all  thrill  to  be  identified 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  7  Second  Day 

with  this  great  enterprise.  When  I  say  that  I  love  these  men  who  stand 
at  the  head,  I  say  that  sincerely.  I  have  said  it  many  times  in  my  as- 
sociations with  them.  I  have  the  highest  admiration  for  every  one  of 
these  General  Authorities  and  sincerely  love  them.  We  support  and  sus- 
tain them  in  every  way  and  are  happy  to  do  it. 

I  am  greatly  honored,  of  course,  although  I  feel  a  heavy  responsi- 
bility connected  with  the  educational  program  of  the  Church.  It  is  a 
far-flung  organization  extended  all  over  Western  America,  nearly  a  hun- 
dred fifty  different  units,  and  all  of  them,  or  almost  every  one,  different 
from  any  other  one.  There  is  such  a  variety  of  problems  and  difficulties 
at  the  present  moment  connected  with  manning  such  an  institution  be- 
cause, as  you  know,  many  of  our  teachers  have  been  called  into  the  armed 
forces  of  our  country,  and  I  hope  you  will  be  a  little  patient  with  us.  We 
are  trying  hard  to  get  first-grade  teachers  but  they  are  just  not  available 
at  the  present  moment.  Some  of  our  seminaries  have  had  to  close.  Some 
places  where  we  had  three  teachers  we  now  have  only  two,  and  it  is  quite 
likely  that  fully  another  twenty  or  twenty-five  teachers  will  go  into  the 
armed  forces  this  Spring.  We  are  going  to  do  our  level  best  to  find 
teachers  who  have  a  firm  testimony  of  the  Gospel,  which  is  fundamental 
and  absolutely  necessary,  and  also  people  that  have  ability  to  teach,  be- 
cause, although  this  first  requirement  is  absolutely  necessary,  it  is  true 
that  not  everybody  can  teach ;  but  we  are  going  to  do  our  best  to  keep  the 
force  of  our  system  in  operation  and  to  maintain  this  great  system.  I 
hope  you  will  be  a  little  patient  with  us,  and  we  will  do  our  best  to  keep 
these  seminaries  operating. 

When  I  heard  the  brethren  talk  about  the  mission  presidents'  meeting 
with  the  Presidency,  I  had  kind  of  a  jealous  feeling  go  through  me.  I 
wish  our  three  hundred  fifty  teachers  could  have  a  chance  to  have  the 
brethren  instruct  us  for  even  one  hour  or  two  hours  so  that  all  of  my 
men  could  get  the  feeling  of  the  power  of  their  influence  and  testimony. 
We  have  difficulty  at  the  present  time  in  having  our  conferences,  our 
meetings  of  our  teachers,  because  it  is  such  a  far-flung  system  and  our 
men  in  some  cases  must  be  lonely  for  lack  of  opportunity  for  meeting 
together.  The  men  appreciate  very  heartily  the  opportunity  of  coming 
to  Conference.  Most  of  our  seminary  teachers  have  positions  in  the 
Priesthood  work  which  entitles  them  to  come  here  but  some  of  them  are 
teachers  in  the  Mutual  Improvement  work  and  Sunday  School  work. 
They  were  just  thrilled  to  be  given  cards  so  that  those  who  were  not  too 
far  from  here,  might  come  and  be  built  up  by  these  wonderful  conferences. 

These  teachers  really  are  genuine  believers  in  the  Gospel  and  have 
faith.  I  know  that.  I  have  a  way  of  my  own — I  think  it  is  pretty  safe — 
for  finding  out  whether  these  teachers  really,  genuinely  are  loyal  and  be- 
lieve the  Gospel.  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  I  think  myself  they  are  as 
loyal  and  as  much  devoted  and  are  living  their  religion  as  fine  as  any 
group  in  this  whole  Church.  That  may  be  putting  it  pretty  strongly,  but 
I  believe  it.  They  are  genuinely  good  men.  They  are  interested  in  these 
young  people,  and  how  they  love  them !  They  are  writing  letters  to  those 
who  are  in  the  army,  many  of  them.    They  are  setting  good  examples, 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  L.  WEST 


and  they  realize  that  our  first  and  foremost  objective  is  to  build  up  faith 
in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  in  the  restored  Gospel,  and  to  teach  the 
principles  upon  which  joy  and  happiness  rest.  They  love  the  work.  Many 
of  them  have  had  fine  opportunities  to  go,  at  much  larger  salaries,  else- 
where ;  but  they  have  been  very  loyal  and  very  devoted,  because  they  love 
the  young  people  and  they  love  to  teach  in  this  great  system. 

Now,  we  are  apt  to  get,  and  we  do  get  discouraged,  all  of  us,  some- 
times when  we  become  appalled  at  these  terrific  problems  that  confront 
the  world  at  the  present  moment.  I  feel  the  worry  of  it  as  you  do,  and 
yet  after  all  is  said  and  done,  the  parents  of  the  Mormon  boys  and  girls 
are  just  finer  people  on  an  average  than  you  find  any  place  else.  These 
officers  that  man  the  Church  and  the  great  body  of  people  out  in  the 
stakes  of  Zion,  all  have  their  weaknesses,  but  they  are  just  genuinely 
good  people.  We  all  have  our  weaknesses,  and  some  homes  are  broken 
and  many  men  and  women  make  mistakes  and  do  not  set  good  examples, 
but  I  tell  you  they  are  the  blood  of  Israel.  They  are  the  children  of  pio- 
neers that  have  been  gathered  out  of  the  world  and  there  is  a  tremendous 
and  a  powerful  amount  of  faith  in  the  Church.  It  is  very  necessary  of 
course,  that  we  teach  our  own  doctrines  and  the  fundamental  principles 
of  the  Gospel,  but,  I  don't  worry  too  much  about  it,  because  I  know  there 
is  so  much  faith  among  this  people.  These  young  people  come  up  through 
the  various  organizations  of  the  Church.  They  are  just  not  going  to  be 
led  astray  and  there  is  no  attempt  to  lead  them  astray.  Quite  the  con- 
trary, we  are  building  a  sound,  substantial  and  firm  faith  so  that  when 
they  get  out  in  intellectual  circles  and  meet  the  various  temptations  of 
the  world  they  have  a  testimony  of  their  own. 

It  is  thrilling  to  be  in  some  of  these  testimony  meetings,  not  only  of 
our  teachers,  but  of  our  college  students  and  our  seminary  teachers  at 
these  institutes.  We  have  conventions  where  one  after  another,  just  as 
fast  as  they  can  get  on  their  feet  and  bear  testimony  to  the  divinity  of  this 
great  work.  There  is  great  faith  among  our  young  people,  and  they  are 
good ;  on  the  whole  they  are  good  and  sound  and  lovely  young  people  and 
are  attempting  to  do  their  level  best.  The  temptations  are  appalling,  as 
you  know.  I  think  there  is  no  other  generation  of  young  people  that 
have  ever  had  such  temptations.  We  had  temptations  in  our  day,  in  all  the 
history  of  the  world  youth  has  had  to  confront  temptation,  but  if  I  had 
time  I  think  I  could  prove  to  you  that  there  are  more  temptations  of  youth 
in  the  present  generation  than  any  generation  that  has  gone  before  and 
I  say  they  are  doing  magnificently.  If  we  have  confidence  in  them  and 
get  close  to  them  and  win  their  trust,  they  will  get  to  a  point  where  they 
will  gladly  come  to  us  with  their  problems  and  we  will  listen.  Like  some- 
body said,  if  we  would  just  listen  once  in  a  while  and  not  just  preach. 

I  had  a  person — a  young  woman — in  my  office  the  first  week  I  was 
in  my  work  here,  about  seven  o'clock  at  night  and  I  was  weary.  She  put 
up  one  of  the  hardest  talks  to  me  that  you  can  imagine  for  guidance  and 
I  turned  in  perplexity  and  said,  "Why  don't  you  ask  your  mother?" 
and  she  said,  "Well,  mother  doesn't  understand."  And  I  said,  "Why 
don't  you  ask  your  father?"  and  she  said,  "All  he  does  is  just  lecture  to 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  7  Second  Day 

me."  Now  I  listened  and  she  had  a  hard  problem.  I  know  we  are  none 
too  wise  either  in  showing  them  what  they  should  do.  Many  times  about 
all  we  can  do  is  listen  with  a  kind,  sympathetic  ear  and  try  and  be  help- 
ful. They  mean  well,  and  are  grand,  and  are  doing  their  best,  and  let  us 
hope  and  pray  that  they  will  come  through  these  trying  times  in  a  fine 
way.  I  know  how  all  of  us  are  feeling  about  our  young  people  now,  so 
many  of  them  in  the  war,  and  they  are  so  priceless  to  us. 

Now,  I  musn't  take  any  more  of  your  wonderful  and  valuable  time. 
I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  to  you  that  I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of 
the  Lord ;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God ;  that  the  Book  of 
Mormon  is  an  inspired  record  containing  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
it  was  translated  under  the  power  of  God  through  the  instrumentality 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith ;  that  President  Brigham  Young  and  John 
Taylor  and  Wilford  Woodruff  and  Lorenzo  Snow  and  President  Smith 
and  President  Grant,  every  one  of  them  have  been  prophets  of  God  and 
great  leaders.  I  love  President  Grant  sincerely  and  always  have.  I  like 
his  strength  of  character,  his  power,  his  clarity  of  speaking,  his  absolute 
honesty.  I  love  that  in  him,  and  I  love- these  brethren,  President  Clark 
and  President  McKay  and  these  members  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve. 
I  have  learned  to  love  my  Executive  Committee.  I  have  six  of  these 
apostles  on  it  that  have  been  perfectly  wonderful,  so  interested  in  our 
work,  and  I  might  say,  too,  that  the  Presidency  and  the  Twelve  and  the 
General  Board  have  been  most  generous  to  lis  in  providing  fine  buildings 
and  fine  opportunities  for  carrying  forth  the  work,  and  we  appreciate  it. 
We  honor  and  love  and  respect  them  and  we  are  doing  our  best  as  an 
auxiliary  agency  of  the  Church  to  take  these  thirty-five  thousand  of  the 
grandest  young  people  that  ever  graced  this  earth,  and  do  our  level  best 
to  teach  them  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  to  build  up  their  faith  in 
the  restored  Gospel. 

We  pray  for  the  men  in  our  staff.  I  am  continually  praying  for  them 
as  I  pray  for  help,  myself,  that  we  may  carry  this  responsibility  well  and 
do  a  good  job  by  the  young  people.  May  God  bless  us,  my  brethren,  as 
leaders  in  this  Church.  May  we  be  humble  and  open-minded  and  kind 
and  generous  to  each  other  and  work  unitedly  and  devotedly  and  loyally 
for  this  great  work.  I  am  proud  to  be  identified  with  it.  It  is  the  work 
of  the  Lord.  It  is  doing  a  grand  work  in  all  of  its  capacities,  and  may  it 
ever  go  forward  to  fulfill  its  destiny  and  grow  and  increase  in  the  work. 
May  we  all  do  our  part  in  carrying  it  forward,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

•  ■ 

ELDER  FRANKLIN  S.  HARRIS 

President  of  the  Brigham  Young  University 

I  have  always  enjoyed  these  evening  Priesthood  meetings  the  most 
of  any  of  the  meetings  of  the  Conference.  I  suppose  the  reason  is  that 
even  though  we  are  the  same  ones  that  meet  in  the  other  meetings,  when 
we  meet  here  we  meet  in  the  capacity  of  those  who  hold  the  Priesthood, 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  S.  HARRIS 


105 


and,  therefore,  we  are  on  our  most  serious  behavior,  because  there  is  a 
responsibility  that  goes  with  holding  the  Priesthood.  Also  there  is  the 
feeling  of  being  all  in  the  family.  We  are  here  together.  None  of  the 
outside  group  are  here.  We  are  interested  in  talking  over,  in  an  intimate 
way,  our  most  intimate  problems  and  so  I  always  like  the  feeling  that 
we  have  at  these  meetings. 

I  have  been  tremendously  interested  in  the  discussions  and  the  ex- 
hortations of  this  conference,  particularly  those  discussions  that  are  cen- 
tered around  the  young  people.  I  suppose  nearly  half  of  the  speakers 
of  this  conference,  particularly  today,  have  mentioned  the  problems  of 
the  young  people.  Brother  West  has  just  told  us  of  the  responsibility 
that  those  of  us  who  are  assigned  to  the  work  with  the  young  people  feel. 
Along  with  this  responsibility  we  feel  a  great  thrill.  It  is  my  work  to 
associate  with  the  young  people  of  college  age,  thousands  of  them,  your 
sons  and  your  daughters.  We  have  at  Brigham  Young  University  usually 
students  from  about  forty  of  the  States  of  the  Union  and  from  most  all 
of  the  Stakes  of  the  Church.  We  have  a  cross-section  of  the  young 
people  of  the  Church,  and  I  am  sure  that  it  would  be  impossible  for  the 
most  pessimistic  individual  to  associate  with  these  young  people,  as  I  do 
from  day  to  day,  having  conferences  with  hundreds  of  them,  without 
being  tremendously  thrilled  at  the  goodness  of  the  young  people  of  Zion. 

I  am  well  aware  of  the  confusion  there  is  in  the  world.  I  have  been 
pretty  much  over  the  world,  since  this  war  started,  and  I  know  that  peo- 
ple everywhere  have  great  confusion  in  their  thinking,  as  Brother  Benson 
so  forcefully  told  us  today.  The  confusion  in  thinking  frequently  results 
in  the  delinquency  and  confusion  of  all  of  Us.  So  we  may  expect  that 
out  of  the  confusion  of  the  world  these  days  there  will  be  unusual  de- 
linquency. It  is  inevitable ;  but  as  Brother  Stephen  L  Richards  told  us 
today,  we  as  a  people  have  the  system  and  the  plan  that  will  help  us  to 
meet  this  situation  in  a  way  that  no  one  else  will  be  able  to  meet  it. 

I  am  really  astonished  at  the  fine  attitude  of  the  young  people  of  the 
Church.  There  may  he  "one-half  of  one  percent"  of  them  who  are  just 
"bad  eggs."  I  suppose  in  any  nest  of  eggs  there  are  a  certain  number  of 
the  eggs  that  have  bloody  yolks ;  and  so  there  will  be  a  very  few  that  come 
out  of  our  good  families  and  our  broken  families  that  are  just  scrubs; 
but  ninety-nine  and  one-half  percent  at  least,  I  am  convinced,  are  es- 
sentially sound.  Oh,  they  may  be  led  into  slight  indiscretions,  by  circum- 
stances, but  you  cannot  talk  with  these  young  people  and  get  into  their 
innermost  hearts  without  knowing  that  they  are  thinking  very  seriously 
about  the  eternal  verities  of  the  world  and  they  want  to  do  the  best  they 
can  in  the  world.  They  want  to  live  honorable  and  upright  and  virtuous 
lives,  and  they  are  of  very  high  quality,  the  great  majority  of  them. 

If  you  had  been  in  our  University  Sunday  School  last  Sunday  and 
had  heard  the  fervent  testimonies  of  many  of  these  young  people,  from 
various  places,  you  could  not  have  had  much  doubt  about  the  sincerity 
of  the  young  people  of  Zion. 

The  reason  for  this  seems  rather  clear  to  me  and  it  might  be  sum- 
marized by  saying  that  we  as  a  Church  have  the  strongest,  most  important 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE  _ 

Friday.  April  7  Second  Day 

thing  that  any  church  in  the  world  has.  I  will  just  explain  what  I  mean 
by  that.  I  have  had  a  good  opportunity  to  see  practically  all  of  the  great 
religions  of  the  world  in  operation  in  their  home  ground.  I  know  the 
strength  of  them  and  their  weaknesses.  In  evaluating  my  own  religion 
I  have  tried  to  do  it  objectively ;  and  so  when  people  have  come  to  me  and 
have  spoken  of  our  religion,  as  they  invariably  do,  if  I  am  with  them  very 
long,  knowing  my  location  they  don't  even  bother  to  ask  to  which  Church 
I  belong,  since  I  am  from  Brigham  Young  University  they  right  off  say, 
"your  Church,"  without  asking,  and  they  say :  "We  like  the  strength  of 
your  Church  in  a  practical  way."  They  are  a  little  like  that  great  humorist 
who  recently  died,  Irving  Cobb  who  wrote  in  his  last  testament  that  he 
wanted  to  have  a  combination  of  various  churches :  the  ceremony  of  the 
Catholic  church,  something  else  of  the  Episcopal  church  and  then  he 
wanted  the  practical  phase  of  Mormonism.  Now  we  are  getting  to  be 
rated  as  a  practical  Church.  We  are  a  practical  Church.  I  honor  that 
policy.  I  consider  myself  essentially  a  practical  man,  because  I  have  dealt 
with  practical  affairs  all  my  life,  and  I  honor  practical  affairs.  But  to 
these  people  who  say  to  me  that  they  like  the  the  practical  phase  of  our 
Church  I  say,  "That  is  very  fine,  but  that  isn't  the  strong  point  of  our 
Church."  The  strong  part  of  our  Church  is  its  spirituality.  It  is  a 
Church  of  high  spiritual  qualities,  and  that  is  the  best  thing  that  can  be 
said  about  any  Church.  It  is  fine  to  have  a  feeling  of  financial  security. 
That's  a  wonderful  feeling  for  any  of  us  to  have.  It  is  fine  to  have  the 
stimulation  that  goes  with  intellectual  research  and  intellectual  achieve- 
ment. This  is  fine,  butaf  ter  all,  the  quintesscence  of  all  good  things  comes 
only  to  a  person  when  he  feels  real  spiritual  exaltation.  Spiritual  exalta- 
tion is  far  above  intellectual  stimulation,  even  though  it  is  somewhat  re- 
lated to  it,  and  it  is  far  above  practical  security. 

The  strong  thing  about  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  is  its  spirituality,  and  it  is  the  only  Church  that  I  have  ever  come 
in  contact  with,  that  has  that  in  the  way  we  have  it.  That  is,  a  sense  of 
our  relation  to  the  eternities.  Not  a  mere  one  individual  dealing  with  a 
practical  world,  but  anyone  who  is  really  in  our  Church,  and  of  it,  must 
have  a  feeling  of  his  nearness  to  our  Heavenly  Father.  He  must  have  a 
consciousness  of  a  herebefore  and  a  hereafter  and  the  part  that  we  are 
playing  in  the  great  journey  of  life.  We  cannot  for-  one  moment  divorce 
ourselves  from  those  fundamental  spiritual  verities  of  the  universe 
which  guide  all  our  actions.  Knowing  that  we  have  that,  that  our  Church 
is  based  on  eternal  truth,  on  revelation,  that  our  leaders  are  guided  by 
continuous  revelation  and  inspiration,  I  am  able  to  explain  why  the 
young  people  of  our  Church,  even  though  they  are  in  a  sea  of  confusion 
and  difficulty,  still  are  sound  at  heart,  and  they  will  come  out  all  right. 
Frequently  young  men  bring  their  fathers  to  see  me,  and  I  often  say  to 
the  father,  "Well  I'm  glad  to  see  you  here  where  your  son  can  have  an 
eye  on  you.  I  am  sure  that  as  long  as  you  are  with  him  you  are  in  good 
company."  I  say  that  in  a  sort  of  a  jocular  way,  and  he  takes  it  in  a 
jocular  way,  because  he  expects  me  to  say,.'T  am  glad  you  have  come 
down  to  look  after  your  son  and  see  that  he  is  getting  along  all  right." 


\ 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  MCKAY  107 


Even  though  it  is  said  in  a  jocular  way,  I  am  in  dead  earnest  about  it, 
because  I  have  as  great  respect  in  general  and  as  great  confidence  in  the 
son  as  I  have  in  the  father.  I  believe  that  God's  work  is  so  soundly  set 
up  that  the  sons  will  be  better  than  their  fathers,  because  they  have  had 
a  longer  period  of  advantage  of  the  Church. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  of  the  soundness  of  the  young  people  of 
Zion,  and  I  bear  my  testimony  that  the  reason  they  are  sound  is  because 
they  have  a  sound  guidance,  the  guidance  of  eternal  truth,  the  guidance 
of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  humbly  pray  that  I,  and  that  you  will, 
all  of  us,  be  worthy  to  guide  and  set  examples  to  these  fine  young  people 
that  have  been  entrusted  to  us ;  and  if  we  do  this  I  am  sure  that  Zion  will 
prosper  and  that  the  work  will  go  forward. 

May  God  grant  that  this  shall  be  the  case. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus  sang  "Jesus,  Lover  of  My 
Soul" — Words  by  Wesley,  Music  by  Holbrook. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

In  the  words  of  Peter  on  the  Mount  of  Transfiguration,  "it  is  good 
to  be  here."  That  exclamation  expresses  the  feeling  of  Latter-day 
Saints  whenever  they  meet  in  sincerity  of  purpose  to  worship  the  Lord. 

Our  souls  are  enriched,  not  only  by  what  is  said  but  by  what  is  felt 
in  just  being  together.  I  pray  that  I  may  be  guided  by  that  same  spirit 
during  the  few  moments  that  I  stand  before  you. 

One  of  the  paramount  duties,  I  might  say  the  paramount  duty  of 
parents  is  to  win  and  merit  the  confidence  and  respect  of  their  children. 
Equally  paramount  in  the  life  of  a  bishopric  of  a  ward  is  to  win  and 
merit  the  confidence  of  the  people  of  their  ward.  Too  few  parents  have 
the  confidence  of  their  children.  There  are  too  few  officers  in  the  Church 
who  have  the  confidence  of  the  members,  particularly  of  the  young  people 
of  wards  and  stakes.. 

I  feel  impressed  to  say  a  word  about  something  which  destroys  that 
confidence.   The  Savior  on  one  occasion  said : 

Judge  not,  that  ye  be  not  judged. 

For  with  what  judgment  ye  judge,  ye  shall  be  judged;  and  with  what 
measure  ye  mete,  it  shall  be  measured  to  you  again. 

And  why  beholdest  thou  the  mote  that  is  in  thy  brother's  eye,  but  con- 
siderest  not  the  beam  that  is  in  thine  own  eye? 

Then  in  strong  condemnatory  terms  He  said : 

Thou  hypocrite,  first  cast  out  the  beam  out  of  thine  own  eye ;  and  then 
shalt  thou  see  clearly  to  cast  out  the  mote  out  of  thy  brother's  eye.  (Matt. 
7:1-3,  5.) 

The  context  of  that  scripture  plainly  indicates  that  the  sin  the  Savior 
is  condemning  is  the  disposition  to  look  unfavorably  on  the  character  and 
actions  of  others,  which  leads  almost  invariably  to  the  pronouncing  of 
rash,  unjust,  unlovely  judgments  upon  them.    Very  often  these  judg- 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Dag 

ments  are  formed  on  insufficient  evidence,  and  after  superficial  observa- 
tions, and  people  who  form  them  and  express  them  in  the  presence  of 
children  put  poison  into  those  children's  minds.  Parents  who  speak  at 
the  table  against  the  bishopric,  against  a  teacher,  stake  president,  or  any 
other  officer  of  the  Church  are,  unwittingly,  perhaps,  but  most  assuredly 
lessening  in  their  children's  minds  the  respect  and  confidence  in  Church 
authorities. 

Slander — A  Deadly  Weapon 

One  of  the  most  deadly  weapons  of  warfare  is  the  poison  gas.  Slander 
is  to  a  child's  confidence  in  Church  authorities  in  undermining  character 
what  poison  gas  is  to  the  physical  body.  Now,  that  is  putting  it  strongly, 
but  I  believe  it  is  true.  We  should  avoid  as  poison  "Slander  whose  whis- 
per over  the  world's  diameter,  as  level  as  the  cannon  to  its  flank,  trans- 
ports its  poison  shot." 

Here  is  a  letter  that  illustrates  what  I  mean,  about  people's  forming 
hasty  judgment,  judging  without  sufficient  evidence.  I  hesitate  to  refer 
to  it  because  in  a  way  it  is  complimentary  and  also  the  writer  has  done 
what  the  Savior  has  asked  us  to  do ;  viz,  "If  you  have  aught  against  your 
brother,  go  to  him.  Between  thee  and  him  alone,  adjust  your  difficulty." 
But  there  are  other  elements  in  the  letter  which  prompt  me  to  read  it  to 
you  as  illustrative  of  this  theme.  I  hope  the  writer  will  either  hear  or 
read  what  I  am  saying.  Then,  too,  there  may  be  others  who  may  be 
thinking  along  the  same  lines  as  this  letter. 

To  quote: 

I  am  writing  you  in  reference  to  the  Church  statistics  that  are  read  from 
the  stand  in  the  April  conferences  every  year  and  which  are  later  published 
in  Salt  Lake  newspapers.  Some  of  my  friends  and  myself  have  been  rather 
puzzled  by  the  figures  as  they  are  given  out  each  year.  We  couldn't  under- 
stand the  tremendous  growth  in  Church  membership  since  1938  as  com- 
pared to  previous  years.  We  have  all  kept  the  statistics  since  they  were 
first  published.  One  of  my  friends  is  a  certified  accountant.  He  was  as 
puzzled  as  the  rest  of  us  until  he  discovered  that  although  the  number  of 
children  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions  and  converts  baptized  in  the 
stakes  and  missions  had  been  added  to  the  Church  membership,  there  had 
been  no  deductions  on  account  of  deaths  in  our  Church  membership 
throughout  the  world. 

Then  follows  this  insinuation  or  accusation : 

Of  course  we  are  all  aware  that  this  method  is  used  by  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church,  but  is  it  honest?  According  to  figures  recently  released 
by  the  state  board  of  health  there  were  five  thousand  two  hundred  ninety- 
two  deaths  in  Utah  during  1943.  Those  figures  are  incomplete.  We  know 
we  have  a  large  Church  membership  in  Utah,  also  in  Idaho  and  Canada  and 
other  parts  of  the  United  States.  I  think  a  conservative  figure  for  the 
number  of  deaths  in  our  Church  each  year  would  be  about  five  thousand. 
Whatever  the  actual  figure,  would  it  not  be  more  honest  to  deduct  the 
figures  from  our  Church  membership  instead  of  keeping  dead  men  on  our 
list?  I  am  as  anxious  as  anyone  in  our  Church  today  to  see  our  member- 
ship grow,  but  I  want  to  see  it  grow  by  fair  means. 

Then  there  is  the  venom,  I  don't  know  against  whom : 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  MCKAY  109 

Of  course  we  can  guess  the  name  of  the  man  who  is  responsible  for 
the  fantastic  way  of  bookkeeping,  but  the  less  said  about  him  the  better. 

Gives  Answer 

It  is  that  accusation  and  that  indication  of  venom  which  prompts  me 
to  say  what  I  am  going  to  say. 
I  said  to  him : 

In  your  concluding  paragraph  you  say  you  are  as  anxious  as  anyone 
in  our  Church  today  to  see  our  membership  grow,  but  you  want  to  see  it 
grow  by  fair  means.  The  implication  in  that  statement,  of  course,  is  an 
insult  to  the  Church  Authorities,  and  the  thought  behind  it  is  unworthy 
of  any  faithful  Latter-day  Saint.  For  your  information  I  am  pleased  to  give 
you  the  following  regarding  the  gathering  of  statistics  which  may  or  may 
not  be  entirely  accurate,  but  at  any  rate  it  is  honest.  I  called  up  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  to  ascertain  the  method  of  gathering  the  statistics.  Each 
ward  is  supplied  with  what  is  known  as  Form  E,  which  is  a  transcript  of 
the  record  of  ward  members  covering  marriages,  divorces,  births,  blessings, 
confirmations,  ordinations,  deaths  and  excommunications.  At  the  begin- 
ning of  every  year  the  ward  membership  is  broken  down  with  regard  to 
the  Priesthood  members ;  high  priests,  seventies,  elders,  priests,  teach- 
ers, and  deacons,  number  of  male  members,  number  of  female  members, 
number  of  male  children  and  the  number  of  female  children;  and  then 
right  after  that  there  are  columns  covering  increases,  those  baptized,  con- 
verts and  children,  those  received  from  other  wards,'  from  missions,  chil- 
dren blessed.  Then  follows  decreases  :  Removed  to  other  wards,  removed 
to  missions,  deaths  and  removed  from  the  record,  children  over  nine  not 
baptized.  They  are  not  counted  as  members.  These  are  decreases.  The 
total  decreases.  The  total  decreases  are  then  subtracted  from  the  mem- 
bership as  of  January  1st,  plus  the  increases  of  the  year,  the  result  of  which 
is  the  exact  membership  of  the  ward  as  of  December  31st  of  each  year. 

In  the  above  paragraph  you  will  see  that  every  death  is  reported  in 
the  ward  and  deducted  from  the  ward  membership. 

Condemns  Attitude 

Now,  we  commend  this  writer  for  his  interest  in  the  Church,  and 
his  associates,  and  the  expert  accountant,  but  we  condemn  the  hasty  con- 
clusions of  error  and  their  conclusions  that  some  men  in  the  Church  have 
not  been  fair  in  giving  out  statistics.  As  I  visualize  the  little  group  work- 
ing and  working,  testing  these  figures  I  fancy  I  can  hear  unlovely  re- 
marks made.  We  are  justified  in  that  conclusion  from  that  venomous 
statement  about  some  man  who,  he  implies,  is  not  just  strictly  honest. 

I  don't  know  how  many  young  people  have  heard  that;  but  those 
who  have,  had  poison  put  into  their  lives  and  the  seeds  of  distrust  sown 
in  their  thoughts  toward  Church  Authorities.  I  know  of  nothing  in  our 
home  life  which  will  tend  to  influence  young  people  to  stray  from  the 
duties  in  the  Church  or  the  path  of  virtue  in  the  Church  so  quickly  and 
effectively  as  will  fault-finding  by  parents ;  even  talking  carelessly  about 
the  weakness  of  bishops;  even  making  slighting  remarks  about  the 
Relief  Society  teachers  who  come,  or  laughing  at  the  ward  teachers,  or 
saying  that  the  ward  teachers'  visit  are  not  effective.  These  things  in 
the  presence  of  children  are  like  termites  eating  the  foundation  of  your 
house,  crawling  up  into  the  woodwork. 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Dag 

Parents,  you  may  not  see  the  evil  effect  of  it  all  at  once,  but  some 
time  later  in  life  when  you  find  the  character  undermined,  you  may  wonder 
what  is  wrong.  Then,  too  late,  you  may  discover  that  termites  have  un- 
dermined the  faith — the  termites  of  slander,  of  fault-finding. 

The  Lord  has  warned  us  against  fault-finding  from  the  beginning. 
He  said  it  is  the  teacher's  duty  to  see  that  there  is  no  backbiting  or  evil 
speaking. 

A  Wonderful  Organization 

What  a  wonderful  organization  the  Church  is,  and  how  in  every 
detail  the  Lord  seems  to  have  marked  out  the  danger  signs,  as  well  as  He 
has  shown  the  paved  road  to  happiness  and  success. 

I  said  the  prime  duty  of  parents  is  to  win  and  to  merit  the  confidence, 
the  trust — the  trust  of  their  children.  If  you  haven't  it,  you  had  better 
worry,  you  had  better  pray.  You  may  lose  them.  One-third  of  the 
Lord's  children  turned  away.  They  had  their  free  agency.  But  let  us 
pray  to  God  to  give  us  power  to  win  the  confidence  of  our  children. 

And  bishoprics,  you  fathers  of  the  wards — pray  that  you  may  have 
the  confidence  and  trust  of  the  people.  And  if  you  have  aught  against 
any,  go  to  them. 

There  is  a  story  told  that  a  company  of  botanists  seeking  some  special 
flowers  up  in  the  Canadian  Rockies,  came  one  day  to  a  very  rare  flower 
down  on  the  side  of  a  cliff.  To  reach  it  they  would  have  to  retrace  their 
steps  and  go  back  ten  miles  to  come  up  from  the  valley  below.  Someone 
suggested  that  if  they  had  a  rope  they  could  let  a  boy  down  to  pick  the 
specimens.  That  suggestion  was  prompted  by  the  fact  that  a  little  boy 
had  been  following  them  for  about  an  hour,  watching  them  silently. 
They  got  the  rope  and  said : 

Here,  lad,  we'll  give  you  $5  if  you  will  put  this  rope  around  you  and 
permit  us  to  let  you  down  to  get  those  flowers. 

Without  saying  a  word  the  lad  scampered  off.  They  thought  they 
had  frightened  him.  He  went  to  a  house  nearby  and  soon  came  back 
with  a  man  by  his  side.   Then  the  little  fellow  answered : 

You  may  put  that  rope  around  me,  and  I'll  get  the  flower,  if  you'll  let 
my  dad  hold  the  rope. 

God  help  us  as  parents  and  officers  in  the  Church  to  merit  such  trust 
of  our  boys  and  girls,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  hour,  sooner  or  later,  comes  to  all  of  us  here  on  the  stand. 

I  have  enjoyed  this  conference  very  much.  We  have  had  a  spirit 
running  through  it  that  seems  to  me  unique  in  our  conferences.  There 
has  been  a  peace,  and  a  quiet ;  there  has  been  a  comfort  and  a  consolation 


I 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


Ill 


that  I  know  have  reached  the  hearts  of  all  of  us.  I  humbly  pray,  and  ask 
an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers  to  the  same  end,  that  what  I  may 
say  tonight  will  not  detract  from  that  spirit,  but,  if  possible,  add  a  little 
something  to  it. 

I  should  like,  brethren,  so  far  as  I  am  able,  to  talk  with  you,  not  at 
you.  I  should  like  to  speak,  so  far  as  I  may,  as  if  I  were  talking  with 
you  personally,  each  individual,  that  I  might  bring  home  to  you  the  sug- 
gestions which  are  running  in  my  mind. 

I  do  not  need  to  tell  you  that  times  are  dark,  nor  that  hate  well  nigh 
rules  the  world,  that  men  have  lost  their  reason,  that  they  are  guided  in 
too  large  part  by  the  basest  motives  which  we  have,  and  that  as  we  stand 
today  we  are  almost  back  to  the  beginning  of  civilization.  I  sometimes 
think  it  is  hard  for  us  to  get  to  the  Lord,  and  for  the  Lord  to  get  through 
to  us,  through  this  pall  of  hate  and  murder  which  seems  to  envelop  the 
earth. 

I  want  to  thank  you  brethren,  the  Priesthood  leadership  of  the 
Church,  for  your  great  service  as  manifested  in  the  work  of  the  people. 
You  are  faithful,  by  and  large ;  you  do  love  the  truth ;  you  do  love  the 
work ;  and  your  highest  interest  is  in  furthering  it  in  every  way  in  which 
you  can.  We  of  the  General  Authorities  appreciate  this  service ;  we  thank 
you  for  it  more  than  we  can  express. 

But  our  task  is  so  great,  and  by  ourselves  we  .are  so  Weak,  that  I 
wanted  to  say  just  a  few  words  tonight  on  one  or  two  points  that  might 
be  helpful. 

Everything  or  Nothing 

We,  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  have  everything,  or  we  have  nothing ; 
there  is  no  middle  ground.  We  know,  those  of  us  who  have  the  testi- 
mony— and  all  here  have  it,  I  am  sure — that  the  Gospel  was  restored ;  we 
know  that  Joseph  was  a  prophet  of  God.  We  know  that  the  Father  and 
the  Son  came  to  him.  We  know  we  have  the  Priesthood.  We  know  that 
our  Church  organization  is  divinely  built. 

What  Is  Scripture? 

We  have  gained  that  knowledge  by  working  for  it  just  as  we  have 
had  to  work  for  every  other  kind  of  knowledge,  for  spiritual  knowledge 
does  not  come  without  labor  and  faith,  repentance,  baptism,  confirma- 
tion, the  reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  There  are  certain  things  which 
follow  from  that  knowledge.  Knowing  these  things,  our  responsibilities 
are  almost  beyond  our  bearing,  except  for  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  and  the 
sustaining  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

The  Lord  said  to  the  brethren,  Orson  Hyde,  the  two  Johnsons  and 
M'Lellin,  (I  am  reading  from  the  68th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants) : 

And  this  is  the  ensample  unto  them,  that  they  shall  speak  as  they  are 
moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost. 

And  whatsoever  they  shall  speak  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost 
shall  be  scripture,  shall  be  the  will  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  mind  of  the 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Day 

Lord,  shall  be  the  word  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  and  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation. 

Behold,  this  is  the  promise  of  the  Lord  unto  you,  O  ye  my  servants. 

Wherefore,  be  of  good  cheer,  and  do  not  fear,  for  I  the  Lord  am  with 
you,  and  will  stand  by  you ;  and  ye  shall  bear  record  of  me,  even  Jesus 
Christ,  that  I  am  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  that  I  was,  that  I  am,  and  that 
I  am  to  come. 

This  is  the  word  of  the  Lord  unto  you,  my  servant  Orson  Hyde,  and 
also  unto  my  servant  Luke  Johnson,  and  unto  my  servant  Lyman  Johnson, 
and  unto  my  servant  William  E.  M'Lellin,  and  unto  all  the  faithful  elders 
of  my  Church. 

With  our  knowledge  of  the  restoration  of  the  Priesthood  and  of 
the  Church  organization,  are  we  prepared  to  go  forward  under  this  prin- 
ciple which  the  Lord  lays  down?  I  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that 
there  is  no  limitation  as  to  the  matters  to  be  covered  by  that  scripture  of 
which  the  Lord  speaks.  Having  in  mind  that  this  Church  of  ours  is  a 
practical  Church,  that  it  deals  with  temporal  as  well  as  with  spiritual 
affairs,  I  submit  that  whatever  comes  from  the  voices  of  those  who  hold 
that  authority  is  scripture,  no  matter  of  what  they  may  speak.  That  con- 
clusion to  me  is  inevitable. 

Anything  and  everything  that  affects  the  well-being  of  us  Latter- 
day  Saints  or  that  has  to  do  with  our  religion,  may  become  part  of  that 
scripture ;  and  when  the  servants  of  God  speak  to  us  about  such  things, 
speaking  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  then  their  words  become 
scripture. 

How  shall  we  know  when  they  speak  under  the  inspiration  of  the 
Lord? 

I  cannot  tell  you  how  to  know,  but  I  can  tell  you  that  every  man 
holding  the  Priesthood,  who  is  obeying  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
and  is  living  righteously,  he  will  know  without  doubt  when  God's  servants 
speak  under  inspiration.   The  spirit  will  bear  true  witness. 

The  Doctrine  of  Oneness 

With  the  foregoing  in  mind,  I  recall  to  your  minds  that  the  Lord 
has  said  :  "Except  ye  are  one,  ye  are  not  mine."  We  cannot  be  one  un- 
less we  are  one  in  spirit,  in  belief,  in  knowledge,  and  in  action.  There 
is  no  other  way.  You  bishops,  bishoprics,  you  have  had  experience  in 
your  wards.  There  is  nearly  always  somebody  in  your  ward  who  is  out 
of  harmony  with  you,  who  wants  to  do  things  some  other  way  than  the 
way  in  which  you  want  them  done.  There  may  be  groups  in  the  ward 
who  think  that  what  you  do  in  the  Welfare,  and  in  the  auxiliary  organ- 
izations is  not  right,  and  they  want  to  do  it  some  other  way.  I  do  not 
need  to  tell  you  how  much  of  a  handicap  that  is  to  you  in  your  work ;  you 
know  it  better  than  I. 

You  presidents  of  stakes  know  how  difficult  it  is  to  guide  and  direct 
your  stakes  as  you  would  like  to  do,  when  you  have  some  bishop  that 
draws  off  to  the  side;  your  stake  suffers. 

We  of  the  general  authorities  know  how  difficult  it  is  when  presi- 
dents of  stakes  draw  away,  when  they  try  to  explain  away  instructions, 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


113 


when  they  seem  to  try,  not  to  find  out  what  the  President  of  the  Church 
wants  done,  but  "how  can  we  interpret  this  instruction  so  as  to  do  what 
we  want  to  do,  and  yet  come  within  the  words  of  the  instruction." 

Among  the  general  authorities  ourselves,  are  we  prepared  to  accept 
just  what  the  prophet  of  God  says  and  do  it,  rather  than  try  to  construe 
it  to  suit  ourselves,  to  suit  our  own  views  ? 

Order  In  the  Church 

There  is  an  order  in  the  Church,  and  you  know  that  order  as  well  as  I. 

I  am  much  impressed  always,  as  we  all  are,  with  the  great  book,  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price.  I  want  to  refer  to  the  third  chapter  of  that  book, 
where  it  talks  about  the  different  times,  but  that  there  is  one  time  which 
rules  all  the  others,  and  that  is  the  Lord's  time ;  where  it  talks  about  the 
different  magnitudes  of  planets  and  heavenly  bodies,  and  tells  us  that 
there  is  one  heavenly  body  which  rules  the  rest. 

So  we  build  up  from  the  individual,  from  the  lowest,  up  until  the 
highest.  The  record  then  begins  to  talk  about  spirits.  The  Lord  said 
to  Abraham : 

Howbeit  that  he  made  the  greater  star ;  as,  also,  if  there  be  two  spirits, 
and  one  shall  be  more  intelligent  than  the  other,  yet  these  two  spirits,  not- 
withstanding one  is  more  intelligent  than  the  other,  have  no  beginning; 
they  existed  before,  they  shall  have  no  end,  they  shall  exist  after,  for  they 
are  gnolaum,  or  eternal. 

And  the  Lord  said  unto  me :  These  two  facts  do  exist,  that  there  are 
two  spirits,  one  being  more  intelligent  than  the  other;  there  shall  be  an- 
other more  intelligent  than  they ;  I  am  the  Lord  thy  God,  I  am  more  intelli- 
gent than  they  all.  .  .  . 

I  dwell  in  the  midst  of  them  all;  I  now,  therefore,  have  come  down 
unto  thee  to  deliver  unto  thee  the  works  which  my  hands  have  made, 
wherein  my  wisdom  excelleth  them  all,  for  I  rule  in  the  heavens  above, 
and  in  the  earth  beneath,  in  all  wisdom  and  prudence,  over  all  the  intelli- 
gences thine  eyes  have  seen  from  the  beginning ;  I  came  down  in  the  begin- 
ning in  the  midst  of  all  the  intelligences  thou  hast  seen. 

Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me,  Abraham,  the  intelligences  that 
were  organized  before  the  world  was ;  and  among  all  these  there  were  many 
of  the  noble  and  great  ones 

And  God  saw  these  souls  that  they  were  good,  and  he  stood  in  the 
midst  of  them,  and  he  said :  These  I  will  make  my  rulers ;  for  he  stood 
among  those  that  were  spirits,  and  he  saw  that  they  were  good ;  and  he 
said  unto  me:  Abraham,  thou  art  one  of  them;  thou  wast  chosen  before 
thou  wast  born.  (Abraham  3:18-19,  21-23.) 

The  principles  that  I  wish  to  get  out  of  this  scripture,  brethren,  are 
these  :  We  were  not  all  equal  in  creation  ;  we  are  not  all  equal  in  author- 
ity here ;  we  are  not  all  equal  in  intelligence.  But  unless  we  are  one,  we 
are  not  the  Lord's. 

But  how  then  can  we  be  one  ? 

We  cannot  be  one  with  some  bishop  who  has  some  plan  of  his  own 
which  he  wishes  to  govern  the  whole  Church.  A  bishop,  great  and  im- 
portant as  is  his  office  and  calling,  is  in  authority  a  shorter  time,  a  lesser 
light,  an  inferior  planet,  a  secondary  intelligence,  as  it  were.   True,  every 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Day 

man,  every  officer  in  the  Church  has  the  right  to  inspiration  and  revela- 
tion as  to  how  he  should  conduct  himself  and  how  he  should  carry  on 
his  office  and  his  duties.  But  when  that  inspiration  and  revelation  come, 
they  will  never  be  out  of  harmony  with  Church  discipline,  nor  with  the 
revelations  of  the  mind  and  will  of  God  made  known  to  His  prophet  on 
earth.  The  president  of  the  Church,  not  a  bishop  of  a  ward,  nor  the 
president  of  a  stake,  lays  down  the  rule  for  the  Church.  Whenever  any 
Church  officer  gets  any  other  impression  than  to  follow  the  president  of 
the  Church,  that  impression  is  not  coming  from  the  right  source. 

The  oneness  must  come,  brethren,  through  being  one  with  him  who 
stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church.  And  it  is  the  duty  and  obligation  of 
every  officer  of  the  Church  to  square  himself  fully,  wholly,  unreservedly, 
without  deception,  without  equivocation,  to  the  mind  and  will  of  the  Lord 
as  revealed  to  our  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator.  I  say  again,  this  principle 
relates  to  all  the  things  that  affect  the  well-being  of  the  Church. 

The  Welfare  Plan 

I  want  to  say  a  word  about  the  Welfare.  We  have  been  urging  the 
bishops  to  take  off  government  relief,  as  rapidly  as  they  could,  the  worthy 
poor  of  the  wards.  This  is  the  counsel  of  the  President  of  the  Church. 
There  has  been  some  complaint  about  this  counsel.  Sometimes  it  has 
seemed  as  if  perhaps  we  were  not  wholly  one  in  that  plan.  Some  bishops 
and  presidents  of  stakes  seem  not  to  feel  that  this  should  be  done.  Yet 
there  will  come  a  time,  I  feel  very  sure,  when  for  those  worthy  poor  it 
will  be  the  Church  or  nothing. 

Already,  since  1938,  the  federal  government  has  reduced  its  ap- 
propriation for  public  relief  by  two-thirds.  It  seems  inevitable  that  that 
reduction  must  continue.  In  urging  the  bishops  to  take  off  relief  the 
worthy  poor,  we  have  asked  them  to  go  first  to  the  children  of  the  poor, 
to  see  if  they  cannot  care  for  their  parents,  and  we  have  said  that  if  they 
cannot  carry  the  burden,  then  the  Church  is  to  help,  either  partly  or 
in  full. 

Now,  we  cannot  give  to  the  worthy  poor  of  the  Church  all  the 
luxuries  that  the  rich  enjoy.  That  cannot  be  done  by  any  agency,  either 
governmental  or  Church  ;  but  the  Church  can  provide  the  worthy  poor 
with  the  necessities  of  life. 

We  have  heard  of  a  few  cases — I  hope  we  have  heard  of  all  of  them — 
where  children  have  induced  their  parents  to  deed  to  them  the  parents' 
property,  and  then  have  put  their  parents  on  relief.  We  heard  of  a  case 
the  other  day  that  was  tragic  beyond  measure.  The  mother,  a  widow, 
had  deeded  her  property  to  her  children ;  she  had  secured  a  gratuity  from 
the  state ;  and  then  the  children  sent  her  away  from  her  home,  away  from 
the  children,  away  from  her  friends,  down  to  one  of  those  boarding  places 
here  in  this  city,  where  they  "take  care"  of  old  people — I  put  "take  care" 
in  quotes — for  a  consideration. 

This  poor  old  soul  had  been  brought  down  here,  torn  away  from  the 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  115 


moorings  of  a  lifetime,  her  friends,  away  from  her  children,  to  live  in 
squalor,  the  charity  ward  of  the  state,  while  her  children  had  her  property. 

When  I  think  of  your  mother  and  my  mother,  who  bore  us,  who 
went  down  into  the  valley  of  the  shadow  for  us ;  when  I  think  of  how 
they  nursed  us,  blood  of  their  blood  before  our  births,  and  fed  us  from 
their  bodies  after  our  birth,  when  I  think  of  their  caring  for  us  through 
all  the  sickness  of  childhood — I  can  remember  five  of  us  in  one  room 
sick  with  diphtheria,  with  no  nurse  but  Mother ;  when  I  think  of  all  the 
anxieties  that  they  passed  through  over  our  upbringing,  all  the  trials  to 
keep  us  in  the  straight  path,  when  I  think  of  how  they  toiled  for  us  far, 
far  beyond  their  strength,  cooking,  washing,  sewing,  mending;  when  I 
think  of  all  this,  it  seems  a  terrible  thing  to  me  that  I  would  ask  my  mother 
to  deed  over  to  me  the  little  property  she  had,  and  that  then  I  should  turn 
her  over  as  a  public  charity  charge  on  the  state,  while  I  ate  up  the  little 
property  I  had  basely  induced  her  to  give  to  me. 

The  Lord  Himself  condemned  such  conduct  in  the  Pharisees.  He 
told  the  Jews  that  when  they  were  seeking  to  avoid  the  responsibilities 
of  the  old  commandment,  "Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother,"  by  bring- 
ing about  some  kind  of  legal  situation  where  they  no  longer  were  re- 
sponsible for  the  keeping  of  their  father  and  mother,  that  they  were  vio- 
lating the  absolute  commandment  of  God.  * 

It  seems  to  me,  brethren,  that  there  is  a  way  to  lead  every  child  to 
"honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother :  that  thy  days  may  be  long  upon  the 
land  which  the  Lord  thy  God  giveth  thee." 

Brethren :  I  would  rather  live  humbly  in  a  log  hut,  surrounded  by 
my  children,  near  my  old  home,  among  my  old  friends,  than  to  live,  torn 
away  from  all  these,  the  charity  inmate  of  a  state  palace. 

The  Constitution 

I  want  to  say  just  one  word  about  a  subject  that  was  touched  today 
by  Brother  Widtsoe.   I  mean  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States. 

I  have  expressed  myself  so  often  to  this  body  of  Priesthood  that 
I  need  go  in  no  details  about  this.  But  I  believe  the  Constitution  was 
inspired.  The  Lord  said  so.  The  Prophet  said  so ;  and  the  prophets  since 
Joseph  have  said  so ;  and  I  am  not  prepared  to  consider  the  Constitution 
in  any  other  light. 

I  believe  God  inspired  the  Constitution  because  He  knew  that  with- 
out the  guarantees  which  that  Constitution  carries  as  to  personal  liberty, 
His  work  could  not  be  established  on  the  earth.  We  sometimes  hear : 
"Well,  the  Lord  can  inspire  rulers  to  change  the  Constitution.  He  in- 
spired the  first  Constitution,  he  can  inspire  changes." 

I  should  like  to  point  out  to  you  that  in  that  inspired  document,  the 
Constitution,  the  Lord  prescribed  the  way,  the  procedure  by  which  the 
inspired  framework  of  that  Constitution  could  be  changed.  Whenever 
the  Constitution  is  amended  in  that  way,  it  will  be  an  amendment  that 
the  Lord  will  approve ;  but  whenever  it  is  amended  in  any  other  way  than 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Day 

He  prescribed,  we  are  not  following  the  commandment  of  the  Lord  and 
must  expect  to  lose  our  liberties  and  freedom. 

The  Constitution  was  framed  in  order  to  protect  minorities.  That 
is  the  purpose  of  written  constitutions.  In  order  that  minorities  might  be 
protected  in  the  matter  of  amendments  under  our  Constitution,  the  Lord 
required  that  the  amendments  should  be  made  only  through  the  operation 
of  very  large  majorities — two-thirds  for  action  in  the  Senate,  and  three- 
fourths  as  among  the  states.  This  is  the  inspired,  prescribed  order. 

But  if  we  are  to  have  an  amendment  by  the  will  of  one  man,  or  of  a 
small  group  of  men,  if  they  can  amend  the  Constitution,  then  we  shall 
lose  the  Constitution ;  because  each  succeeding  person  or  group  who  come 
into  a  position  of  place  and  power  where  they  can  "amend"  the  charter, 
will  want  to  amend  it  again,  and  so  on  until  no  vestige  of  our  liberties 
shall  remain.  Thus  it  comes  that  an  amendment  of  our  Constitution  by 
one  person  or  by  a  group  is  a  violation  of  the  revealed  will  of  the  Lord 
to  the  Church,  as  that  will  is  embodied  in  that  inspired  Constitution. 

Brethren,  let  us  think  about  that,  because  I  say  unto  you  with  all 
the  soberness  I  can,  that  we  stand  in  danger  of  losing  our  liberties,  and 
that  once  lost,  only  blood  will  bring  them  back;  and  once  lost,  we  of  this 
Church  will,  in  order  to  keep  the  Church  going  forward,  have  more  sacri- 
fices to  make  and  more  persecutions  to  endure  than  we  have  yet  known, 
heavy  as  our  sacrifices  and  grievous  as  our  persecutions  of  the  past  have 
been. 

May  the  Lord  give  us  a  desire  to  serve  Him.  May  He  give  us  a 
spirit  of  oneness,  between  the  ward  bishoprics  and  their  members,  be- 
tween the  presidents  of  stakes  and  their  bishops,  between  the  presidents 
of  stakes  and  the  general  authorities,  and  between  the  general  authorities 
and  the  president  of  the  Church,  the  prophet  of  God,  His  prophet,  seer, 
and  revelator,  and  so  sustained  by  us,  who  are  the  Priesthood  leadership 
of  the  Church  in  conference  assembled.  This  oneness  must  be  on  the 
revealed  will  of  the  Lord  to  the  president  of  the  Church,  as  proclaimed 
by  him.  No  other  oneness  can  bring  us  safety  and  security,  and  in  no 
other  oneness  can  we  go  forward  building  the  Church  and  bringing  sal- 
vation to  mankind. 

God  bless  us  all,  give  us  His  spirit  and  help  us  so  to  live  that  the  Holy 
Ghost  may  be  our  constant  companion,  help  us  always  to  walk  down  the 
straight  and  narrow  way,  give  us  always  the  knowledge  of  the  truthful- 
ness of  the  Gospel  and  a  reverence  for  our  prophet,  seer  and  revelator, 
I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus  sang,  "The  Long  Day  Closes" 
— Words  by  Chorley,  Music  by  Sullivan. 

Elder  Ray  E.  Dillman,  President  of  the  Roosevelt  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday,  April  9,  at  10  o'clock  a.m. 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST  117 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Sunday  morning,  April  9,  at  10  o'clock, 

a.m. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  was  present  at  this  session,  and  in  addition 
to  their  participation  in  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  and 
the  Church  of  the  Air,  sang  an  anthem  at  the  close  of  the  session. 

Elder  E.  Woodruff  Stucki,  President  of  the  Bear  Lake  Stake,  of- 
fered the  opening  prayer. 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

- 

During  the  period  from  10  to  10 :30  a.m.,  the  regular  Sunday  morn- 
ing nationwide  broadcast  of  the  choral  and  organ  music  and  brief  spoken 
comment  was  presented  as  part  of  the  General  Conference  proceedings. 
This  program,  which  will  complete  its  fifteenth  year  of  continuous  nation- 
wide broadcasting  in  July  of  midyear,  was  presented  by  the  tabernacle 
choir  and  organ,  and  broadcast  through  the  courtesy  and  facilities  of  the 
Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  coast-to-coast  network,  throughout  the 
United  States.  The  broadcast,  written  and  announced  by  Elder  Richard 
L.  Evans,  originated  with  radio  station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City,  and  was 
presented  as  follows : 

(Organ  began  playing  "As  the  Dew,"  and  then  the  organ  and  choir 
broke  into  "Gently  Raise,"  singing  words  to  end  of  second  line  from 
which  point  choir  hummed  for  announcer's  background  to  end  of  verse.) 

Richard  L.  Evans:  With  the  passing  of  another  seven  days,  we 
welcome  you  once  more  to  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  as  music 
and  the  spoken  word  are  heard  again  from  the  Crossroads  of  the  West." 
At  this  hour  Columbia  presents  the  769th  nationwide  performance  of  this 
traditional  broadcast,  now  in  its  fifteenth  consecutive  year. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  is  conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  is  at  the  organ.  The  spoken  word  by  Richard  L.  Evans. 

On  this  Sabbath  on  which  we  commemorate  the  resurrection  of 
Jesus  the  Christ,  the  choir  opens  with  the  singing  of  an  anthem  by  Saint 
Saens,  "Arise,  Shine,  Thy  Light  Is  Come  .  .  .  the  glory  of  the  Lord  is 
risen.  . . .  Behold  thy  King  cometh  unto  thee." 

(Choir,  sang,  "Arise,  Shine,  Thy  Light  Is  Come.") 

Evans:  A  hymn  in  keeping  with  the  Easter  theme  is  sung  now  by 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  arrangement  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  words 
by  Eliza  R.  Snow  and  music  by  Thomas  Mclntyre — "How  Great  the 
Wisdom  and  the  Love  That  Filled  the  Courts  on  High." 

(Choir  sang,  "How  Great  the  Wisdom  and  the  Love" — Mclntyre.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


Evans :  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  Tabernacle  organ  brings  now  to 
this  Temple  Square  hour  the  "Grand  Chorus  Dialogue,"  by  Gigout. 
(Organ  presented  "Grand  Chorus  Dialogue" — Gigout.) 
Evans : 


To  see  death  gently  pronounce  its  benediction  upon  a  fulness  of 
years,  to  see  its  merciful  hand  remove  the  infirmities  of  one  who  has 
traveled  long  and  became  weary  of  the  journey,  is  a  hallowed  experience 
— -but  to  see  death  hover  near  the  fairest  youth  of  many  lands  and  make 
its  choices  from  among  them  is  quite  another  thing — youth,  whose  lives 
are  crowded  with  plans  and  prospects — youth,  who  should  be  coafident 
in  the  promise  of  many  days  to  come,  but  who,  paradoxically,  live  as 
though  they  had  less  time  than  the  aged.  "The  days  of  his  youth  hast 
thou  shortened.  .  .  .  How  long,  Lord?  wilt  thou  hide  thyself  forever? 
.  .  .  Remember  how  short  my  time  is."  (Psalm  89:45-47.)  Thus  spoke 
the  Psalmist — and  in  tragic  despair  the  story  might  there  end,  except  for 
the  assurance  of  Easter,  which  our  world  needs  now  more  than  ever 
before  in  its  uneasy  history.  .  .  .  "Remember  how  short  my  time  is."  .  .  . 
Time  is  short,  whether  you're  twenty  or  whether  you're  eighty.  "A  thou- 
sand years  in  thy  sight  are  but  as  yesterday  when  it  is  past  .  .  .  Thou 
carriestthem  away  as  with  a  flood"  (Psalm  90:4,  5.) 

"For  tomorrow  we  die."  .  .  .  But  we  don't !  Life  goes  on — here  and 
now  for  most  of  us,  and  if  not  here,  then  somewhere  else — not  with  for- 
getfulness,  but  with  acute  memories  of  all  that  has  been,  and  with  the 
promise  of  all  cherished  things  renewed  .  .  .  "Remember  how  short  my 
time  is."  ...  To  youth  pressed  for  time,  to  youth  in  a  generation  of  un- 
certainties, we  say :  Live  your  lives  as  though  they  would  continue  for- 
ever— for  they  will !  And  this  assurance  leaves  room  in  life  only  for  the 
things  we  would  be  proud  to  acknowledge  no  matter  how  long  we  lived 
— -and  it  leaves  no  cause  for  crowding  years  into  days,  blindly  and 
breathlessly ;  no  place  for  questionable  short-cuts,  or  for  the  cheapening 
of  any  part  of  life  because  time  may  be  short.  Time  is  spent  quickly  for 
all  of  us,  whether  we're  old  or  whether  we're  young.  .  .  .  "But  tomorrow 
we  live" — according  to  the  promise  of  Him  who  died  that  men  might 
live. 

(Choir  sang  "Alleluia" — Mozart.) 

Evans:  From  the  choir  we  have  heard  "Alleluia"  from  the  Motet 
"Exsultate,  Jubilate,"  by  Mozart. 

And  now  from  Temple  Square  we  present  variations  on  the  theme 
"Redeemer  of  Israel,"  as  arranged  by  the  organist. 

(Organ  presented  fantasy  on  "Redeemer  of  Israel.") 

Evans:  "And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been 
given  of  him,  this  is  the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him :  that 
he  lives ;  for  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God ;  and  we  heard 
the  voice  bearing  record  that  he  is  the  only  begotten  of  the  Father — that 


Remember  How  Short  My  Time  Is 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  MCKAY 


119 


by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were  created, 
and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto  God." 
"We  will  sing  of  the  Lord  now  victorious!  All  the  terrors  of  death 
were  in  vain !  Let  us  sing  of  the  Christ  ever  glorious :  He  is  risen  in 
glory  to  reign." 

Choir  sang,  "Lord  Now  Victorious" —  Mascagni  from  "Cavalleria 
Rusticana.") 

Evans:  "I  am  the  resurrection  and  the  life.  He  that  believeth  in 
me,  though  he  were  dead,  yet  shall  he  live.  Believest  thou  this :  Yea,  Lord, 
I  believe." 

(Organ  theme:  "As  the  Dew.") 

Evans:  This  Sabbath  hour  from  the  Crossroads  of  the  West  is 
ended.  Until  we  beckon  your  thoughts  again  unto  the  hills,  may  peace 
be  with  you,  this  day  and  always — even  that  peace  offered  by  Him  who 
is  the  Prince  of  Peace,  who  will  come  yet  again  as  He  has  promised. 

This  concludes  the  769th  nationwide  performance  of  this  broadcast 
from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  presented  by  the  Co- 
lumbia network  and  its  affiliated  stations,  originating  with  Radio  Station 
KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

As  the  voices  of  the  choir  and  organ  fade  within  these  echoing  walls, 
so  will  they  return  at  this  same  hour  next  Sunday  over  Columbia  stations, 
from  coast-to-coast,  continuing  the  fifteenth  year  of  this  traditional  broad- 
cast from  Temple  Square. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  National  Broadcast  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  to  which  we  have 
just  listened,  has  been  the  opening  of  the  sixth  session  of  the  114th  An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
The  opening  prayer  was  offered  before  the  beginning  of  the  broadcast, 
by  President  E.  Woodruff  Stucki  of  the  Bear  Lake  Stake. 

The  regular  session  of  this  conference  will  now  continue  for  one- 
half  hour  when  the  Columbia  Church  of  the  Air  will  be  given  as  a  part 
of  this  session  of  the  Conference.  Elder  Albert  E.  Bowen  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve,  will  be  the  speaker  on  the  Easter  Service  of  the  Church 
of  the  Air.  At  the  conclusion  of  that  service,  the  regular  session  of 
this  Conference  will  resume  for  the  balance  of  the  morning  service. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  of  the  First  Presidency  will  now  ad- 
dress us. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  I  am  glad  to  worship  with  you  and  with 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  on  this  the  Lord's  day,  so  designated  by  the  early 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  •  Third  Day 

apostles  in  commemoration  and  in  testimony  of  the  resurrection  of  our 
Lord. 

However,  as  I  fill  this  assignment  to  speak  to  you  I  am  deeply  con- 
scious of  the  fact  that  I  am  feeling  more  the  significance  of  the  resurrec- 
tion than  I  am  able  to  express.  I  pray,  therefore,  that  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  may  enlighten  our  minds  to  see  and  touch  our  hearts  to  feel  more 
than  my  mere  words  will  denote. 

For  I  know  that  my  Redeemer  liveth,  and  that  He  shall  stand  at  the 
latter  day  upon  the  earth: 

And  though  after  my  skin  worms  destroy  this  body,  yet  in  my  flesh 
shall  I  see  God: 

Whom  I  shall  see  for  myself,  and  mine  eyes  shall  behold,  and  not  an- 
other; though  my  reins  be  consumed  within  me.  (Job  19:25-27.) 

He  who  can  thus  testify  of  the  living  Redeemer  has  his  soul  an- 
chored in  eternal  truth. 

The  latest  and  greatest  confirmation  that  Jesus  rose  from  the  grave 
is  the  appearance  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
nineteen  hundred  years  after  the  event  that  today  Christendom  is  cele- 
brating. It  is  highly  appropriate,  therefore,  that  the  Church  should  join 
in  the  annual  festival  commemorating  the  resurrection  of  Christ,  the  most 
significant,  the  most  memorable  event  in  the  history  of  mankind. 

This  miracle  of  life  is  significant  not  only  in  itself,  but  in  its  con- 
notation of  all  the  basic  principles  of  true  Christianity. 

Disbelief  All  Too  General 

Judging  from  the  war  now  raging  it  is  quite  evident  that  leaders  of 
some  of  the  governments  of  the  world  do  not  believe  in  the  actuality  of 
the  resurrection.  At  least  the  beginning  of  this  deadly  conflict  indicates 
that  they  not  only  do  not  accept  it  as  a  fact,  but  reject  it  as  a  myth  or 
superstition.  At  any  rate,  we  know  that  the  leaders  of  the  nation  directly 
responsible  for  starting  this  worldwide  holocaust  have  openly  repudiated 
Jesus  Christ  and  his  teachings. 

Too  many  today  are  like  the  men  on  Mars'  Hill  two  thousand  years 
ago  who  erected  an  altar  to  "The  Unknown  God,"  but  who  knew  little  or 
nothing  about  him.  We  read  that  on  his  way  to  the  Areopagus,  Paul  had 
beheld  magnificent  statues  erected  to  various  gods  which  the  Greeks  wor- 
shipped— to  Mars,  the  god  of  war ;  Aphrodite,  the  goddess  of  love ;  Bac- 
chus, the  god  of  wine,  and  towering  above  them  all,  the  Pallas-Athene, 
the  goddess  of  wisdom,  the  protectress  of  Athens — these  and  many  others. 

Here  frequently  gathered  philosophers  and  judges,  the  ablest  think- 
ers, the  wisest  sages  of  the  ancient  world,  considering  and  discoursing 
on  the  mysteries  of  life  and  the  destiny  of  the  human  race. 

In  the  midst  of  all  this  worldly  wisdom  there  stood  a  lonely  little 
brown-eyed  man  who  challenged  much  of  their  philosophy  as  false  and 
their  worship  of  images  as  gross  error — the  only  man  in  that  great  city 
of  intellectuals  who  knew  by  actual  experience  that  a  man  may  pass 
through  the  portals  of  death  and  live — the  only  man  in  Athens  who  could 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  MCKAY 


121 


clearly  sense  the  difference  between  the  formality  of  idolatry,  and  the 
heartfelt  worship  of  the  only  true  and  living  God.  By  the  Epicureans 
and  Stoics  with  whom  he  had  conversed  and  argued,  Paul  had  been  called 
a  babbler,  a  setter-forth  of  strange  gods :  So  they  took  him,  and  brought 
him  unto  Aeropagus,  saying,  'May  we  know  what  this  strange  doctrine 
whereof  thou  speakest  is?'  " 

"Ye  men  of  Athens,"  said  Paul,  "I  perceive  that  in  all  things  ye  are 
too  superstitious. 

"For,  as  I  passed  by,  and  beheld  your  devotion,  I  found  an  altar  with 
this  inscription.  'To  the  Unknown  God.'  Whom,  therefore,  ye  ignorant- 
ly  worship,  him  declare  I  unto  yon." 

As  Paul  discoursed  eloquently  on  the  personality  of  God,  the  phil- 
osophers listened  curiously  though  attentively  until  he  testified  that  God 
had  raised  Jesus  from  the  dead. 

When  they  heard  of  the  resurrection,  some  mocked  and  all  but  a  few 
turned  away,  leaving  him  who  had  declared  the  truth  even  more  lonely 
than  ever'. 

Today,  as  on  Mars'  Hill,  when  we  speak  of  the  resurrection  of  the1 
dead,  there  are  some  who  mock  and  others  who  doubt  and  turn  away. 
Today,  as  then,  too  many  men  and  women  have  other  gods  to  which  they 
give  more  thought  than  to  the  resurrected  Lord — •  the  god  of  pleasure, 
the  god  of  wealth,  the  god  of  indulgence,  the  god  of  political  power,  the 
god  of  popularity,  the  god  of  race  superiority — as  varied  and  numerous 
as  were  the  gods  in  ancient  Athens  and  Rome. 

Thoughts  that  most  frequently  occupy  the  mind  determine  a  man's 
course  of  action.  As  one  writer  aptly  says :  "The  ever  pressing  pursuit 
of  secular  aims — natural  science,  commerce,  luxury — any  form  of  earthly 
ambition  or  absorption,  makes  the  mind  incapable  of  receiving,  under- 
standing, or  even  entertaining  the  idea  of  any  Being  higher  than  man,  or 
any  state  of  existence  higher  than  the  present."  It  is  therefore  a  blessing 
to  the  world  that  there  are  occasions  such  as  Easter  which,  as  warning 
semaphores,  say  to  mankind :  In  your  mad  rush  for  pleasure,  wealth,  and 
fame,  pause,  and  think  what  is  of  most  value  in  life. 

When  men  heed  this  warning,  and  search  the  innermost  recesses  of 
their  hearts,  they  find  that  the  most  important  question  of  their  lives  re- 
lates to  the  subject  of  immortality.  A  leading  railroad  man,  as  quoted  in 
Young  Man  and  the  World,  expressed  the  thought  of  many  when  he  said  : 

I  would  rather  be  sure  that  when  a  man  dies  he  will  live  again  with 
his  conscious  identity,  than  to  have  all  the  wealth  of  the  United  States, 
or  to  occupy  any  position  of  honor  or  power  the  world  could  possibly  give. 

A  young  student  recently  expressed  the  thought  that  belief  in  Christ 
as  the  Redeemer,  as  God  made  manifest,  is  waning;  that  professing 
Christians  no  longer  believe  that  Jesus  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father 
in  the  flesh ;  that  in  some  miraculous  manner  his  death  made  expiation 
for  sin ;  or  that  after  His  crucifixion  Christ  rose  from  the  dead. 

With  a  view  of  getting  a  cross-section  of  current  opinion  on  this 
/ 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

matter  the  following  question  was  put  directly  to  a  number  of  leading 
citizens  here  in  our  city : 

-  "Do  you  accept  as  a  fact  the  actual  resurrection  of  Christ  from  the 
grave  ?" 

Among  the  twenty-six  men  contacted  were  ministers,  doctors  of 
medicine,  lawyers,  and  leading  business  men.  A  majority  answered  yes, 
some  equivocated,  eight  answered  no. 

Accepted  As  Fact  By  Early  Apostles 

Establish  it  as  a  fact  that  Christ  did  take  up  His  body  and  appeared 
as  a  glorified,  resurrected  Being,  and  you  answer  the  question  of  the  ages 
— "If  a  man  dies,  shall  he  live  again  ?" 

That  the  literal  resurrection  from  the  grave  was  a  reality  to  the 
disciples  who  knew  Christ  intimately  is  a  certainty.  In  their  minds  there 
was  absolutely  no  doubt.  They  were  witnesses  of  the  fact.  They  knew 
because  their  eyes  beheld,  their  ears  heard,  their  hands  felt  the  corporal 
presence  of  the  risen  Redeemer. 

Value  of  Their  Testimony 

The  deep  significance  of  their  testimony  may  be  better  understood 
when  we  realize  that  with  Jesus'  death  the  apostles  were  stricken  with 
gloom.  When  He  was  crucified,  their  hopes  all  but  died.  That  His 
death  was  a  reality  to  the  disciples  is  shown  (1)  in  their  intense  grief, 
(2)  in  the  statement  of  Thomas,  (3)  in  the  moral  perplexity  of  Peter 
when  he  said,  "I  go  afishing,"  and,  (4)  in  the  evident  preparation  for  a 
permanent  burial  of  their  Master.  Notwithstanding  the  often-repeated 
assurance  of  Jesus  that  He  would  return  to  them  after  death,  the  apostles 
seemed  not  to  have  accepted  or  at  least  not  comprehended  Christ's  state- 
ment as  a  literal  fact.  At  the  crucifixion  they  were  frightened  and  dis- 
couraged. For  two  and  a  half  years  they  had  been  upheld  and  inspired 
by  Christ's  presence.  But  now  He  was  gone.  They  were  left  alone,  and 
they  seemed  confused,  helpless,  and  panic-stricken.  Only  John  stood  by 
the  cross.  Not  with  timidity,  not  .with  feelings  of  doubt,  gloom,  and 
discouragement  is  a  skeptical  world  made  to  believe.  Such  wavering, 
despairing  minds  as  the  apostles  possessed  on  the  day  of  crucifixion  could 
never  have  stirred  people  to  accept  an  unpopular  belief,  and  to  die 
martyrs  to  the  cause. 

What  was  it  that  suddenly  changed  these  disciples  to  confident,  fear- 
less, heroic  preachers  of  the  Gospel  ? 

It  was  the  revelation  that  Christ  had  risen  from  the  grave. 

I  think  it  was  Spurgeon  who  said : 

r 

His  promises  had  been  kept,  his  Messianic  mission  fulfilled.  The  final 
and  absolute  seal  of  genuineness  had  been  put  on  all  his  claims,  and  the 
indelible  stamp  of  a  divine  authority  upon  all  his  teachings.  The  gloom  of 
death  had  been  banished  by  the  glorious  light  of  the  presence  of  their  risen, 
glorified  Lord  and  Savior. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  MCKAY 


123 


On  the  evidence  of  these  unprejudiced,  unexpectant,  incredulous  wit- 
nesses, faith  in  the  resurrection  has  its  impregnable  foundation. 

Principles  Connoted 

The  event  we  celebrate  today  connotes  the  fundamental  principles  of 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.    In  general  these  are:  , 

i 

I.  The  Fatherhood  of  God 

No  man  can  accept  the  resurrection  and  be  consistent  in  his  belief 
without  accepting  also  the  existence  of  a  personal  God.  Through  the 
resurrection  Christ  conquered  death,  and  became  an  immortal  soul.  "My 
Lord  and  my  God"  was  not  merely  an  idle  exclamation  of  Thomas  when 
he  beheld  his  risen  Lord.  The  Being  before  him  was  his  God.  Once  we 
accept  Christ  as  divine  it  is  easy  to  visualize  his  Father  as  being  just  as 
personal  as  he;  for,  said  Jesus,  "He  that  hath  seen  me  hath  seen  the 
Father." 

Inseparable  with  the  idea  of  a  Divine  Personal  Being  is  the  accept- 
ance of  Him  as  the  Creator  of  the  world.  True  Christianity  does  not 
look  upon  the  universe  as  the  result  of  mere  interaction  of  matter  and  mo- 
tion, of  law  and  force,  but,  on  the  contrary,  it  regards  all  creation  as  the 
product  of  a  Divine  Intelligence  "who  made  the  world  and  all  things 
therein."  As  one  writer  puts  it :  "This  is  what  Christianity  means  by  a 
personal  God.  It  believes  that  all  existence  has  its  roots  in  a  conscious 
and  intelligent  purpose  and  that  this  purpose  is  good." 

II.  Sonship  of  Jesus  Christ 

The  Gospel  teaches  that  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world.  No  true  follower  is  satisfied  to  accept  him  merely  as  a  great 
Reformer,  the  ideal  Teacher,  or  even  as  the  One  Perfect  Man.  The  man 
of  Galilee  is,  not  figuratively,  but  literally,  the  Son  of  the  living  God. 

III.  The  Immortality  of  the  Human  Soul 

Belief  in  the  resurrection  connotes  also  the  immortality  of  man. 
Jesus  passed  through  all  the  experiences  of  mortality  just  as  you  and  I. 
He  knew  happiness,  he  experienced  pain.  He  rejoiced  as  well  as  sor- 
rowed with  others.  He  knew  friendship.  He  experienced  also  the  sad- 
ness that  comes  through  traitors  and  false  accusers.  He  died  a  mortal 
death  even  as  every  other  mortal.  Since  His  spirit  lived  after  death,  so 
shall  yours  and  mine.  So  shall  your  soldier  boy  who  gives  his  life  on  the 
battlefield. 

IV.  The  Brotherhood  of  Man 

One  of  the  two  great,  general  principles  to  which  all  other  principles 
are  subsidiary  is  this :  "Love  your  neighbor  as  yourself,"  and  correlated 
with  it  the  promise :  "Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  the  least  of  these 
my  brethren,  ye  have  done  it  unto  me." 

The  Gospel,  "bids  the  strong  bear  the  burdens  of  the  weak,  and  to 
use  the  advantages  given  them  by  their  larger  opportunities  in  the  interest 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Third  Dag 

of  the  common  good,  that  the  whole  level  of  humanity  may  be  lifted  and 
the  path  of  spiritual  attainment  be  opened  to  the  weakest  and  most  ig- 
norant," as  well  as  to  the  strong  and  intelligent. 

V.  The  Standards  of  Life 

Finally,  since  Jesus  was  the  one  perfect  man  who  ever  lived,  as  He, 
in  rising  from  the  dead,  conquered  death,  and  is  now  Lord  of  the  earth, 
how  utterly  weak,  how  extremely  foolish  is  he  who  would  wilfully  reject 
Christ's  way  of  life,  especially  in  the  light  of  the  fact  that  such  rejection 
leads  only  to  unhappiness,  misery,  and  even  to  death. 

What  a  more  delightful  world  this  would  be  if,  for  example,  men 
earnestly  strove  to  apply  Christ's  advice:  "If  ye  have  aught  against  a 
brother,  go  to  him."  Or,  again,  His  admonition :  "seek  first  the  kingdom 
of  God  and  His  righteousness,"  which  means,  simply,  be  not  so  anxious 
about  worldly  things  as  to  make  them  of  superior  worth  to  spiritual  at- 
tainment. 

The  Savior  condemned  hypocrisy  and  praised  sincerity  of  purpose. 
Keep  your  heart  pure  and  your  actions  will  be  in  accord  therewith.  Social 
sins — lying,  stealing,  dishonest  dealing,  fornication,  and  the  like  are  first 
committed  in  thought. 

Jesus  taught  that  an  unsullied  character  is  the  noblest  aim  of  life. 
As  John  W.  Powell  aptly  says  : 

Not  possessions,  nor  fame,  nor  honor;  not  success  nor  prosperity;  not 
physical  pleasure  and  ease.  .  .  .  None  of  these  can  completely  satisfy  the 
human  spirit ;  nor  fulfill  the  highest  demand  of  life. 

No  man  has  attained  who  has  not  become  a  good  man,  pure  and  loyal 
and  true  of  soul ;  whose  character,  though  bought  at  the  cost  of  all  the  com- 
mon aims  of  existence,  will  stand  the  test  of  every  temptation  and  bring 
him  into  communion  with  the  divine. 

Herein,  brethren,  lies  the  true  source  of  the  testimony :  "I  know  that 
my  Redeemer  lives."  No  man  can  sincerely  resolve  to  apply  in  his  daily 
life  the  teachings  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth  without  sensing  a  change  in  his 
nature.  The  phrase  "born  again"  has  a  deeper  significance  than  what 
many  people  attach  to  it.  This  changed  feeling  may  be  indescribable, 
but  it  is  real. 

Happy  the  person  who  has  truly  sensed  the  uplifting  transforming 
power  that  comes  from  this  nearness  to  the  Savior,  this  kinship  to  the 
living  Christ.  I  am  thankful  that  I  know  that  Christ  is  my  Redeemer. 

Easter  is  a  sacred  day,  a  day  of  thanksgiving  and  divine  worship.  It 
is  not  a  day  just  for  rejoicing  because  of  the  opening  of  springtime,  not 
merely  an  opportunity  to  display  beautiful  hats  and  fine  clothing — it  is  an 
occasion  for  the  expression  of  gratitude  to  God  for  having  sent  His  Only 
Begotten  Son  into  the  world,  to  be  "the  way,  the  truth,  the  life,"  to  declare 
the  eternal  truth  that  "Whosoever  believeth  in  him  should  not  perish  but 
have  everlasting  life." 

When  Christians  throughout  the  world  have  this  faith  coursing  in 
their  blood,  when  they  feel  a  loyalty  in  their  hearts  to  the  resurrected 
Christ,  and  to  the  principles  connoted  thereby,  mankind  will  have  taken 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  MCKAY  125 

the  first  great  step  toward  the  perpetual  peace  for  which  we  daily  are 
praying :  Reject  Him  and  the  world  will  be  filled  with  hatred,  and 
drenched  in  blood  by  recurring  wars. 

Modern  Revelation 

Confirming  the  irrefutable  testimony  of  Christ's  early  apostles,  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  proclaims  the  glorious  vision  of  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith  as  follows : 

And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him, 
this  is  the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him :  That  he  lives ! 

For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God ;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father — 

That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were 
created,  and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  un- 
to God.**** 

And  this  is  the  Gospel,  the  glad  tidings,  which  the  voice  out  of  the  heav- 
ens bore  record  unto  us — 

That  he  came  into  the  world,  even  Jesus,  to  be  crucified  for  the  world, 
and  to  bear  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  to  sanctify  the  world,  and  to  cleanse 
it  from  all  unrighteousness ; 

That  through  him  all  might  be  saved  whom  the  Father  had  put  into 
his  power  and  made  by  him.  (D.  &  C.  76.) 

Conclusion 

Brethren  and  sisters :  As  Christ  lived  after  death  so  shall  all  men, 
each  taking  his  place  in  the  next  world  for  which  he  has  best  fitted  him- 
self. The  message  of  the  resurrection,  therefore,  is  the  most  comforting, 
the  most  glorious  ever  given  fo  man,  for  when  death  takes  a  loved  one 
from  us,  our  sorrowing  hearts  are  assuaged  by  the  hope  and  the  divine 
assurance  expressed  in  the  words : 

"He  is  not  here :  he  is  risen."  Because  our  Redeemer  lives  so  shall 
we.  I  bear  you  witness  that  He  does  live.  I  know  it,  as  I  hope  you  know 
that  divine  truth. 

May  all  mankind  some  day  have  that  faith,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  have  just  listened  to  an  eloquent  and  faith-promoting  address  by 
President  David  O.  McKay. 

At  11  o'clock  we  will  turn  over  the  Conference  to  the  regular  Co- 
lumbia Church  of  the  Air  service,  on  which  Elder  Albert  E.  Bowen  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  deliver  the  Easter  address. 

CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR  BROADCAST 

Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  Church  of  the  Air  was  presented 
from  11 :00  to  11 :30  a.m.  as  a  part  of  the  proceedings  of  this  session  of 
the  Conference,  as  follows: 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday.  April  9  Third  Dag 

(Theme:  "Sweet  Is  the  Work" — organ  and  humming  voices  of 
the  Choir.) 

Announcer,  Richard  L.  Evans:  Twelve  years  ago  the  Church  of 
the  Air  was  established  by  the  Columbia  network  so  that  representatives 
of  the  major  faiths  might  bring  their  messages  to  a  nationwide  congrega- 
tion of  worshippers.  Since  that  time,  these  devotional  programs  have 
been  heard  twice  each  Sunday.  Today,  the  network  service  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  comes  to  you  from  the  Mormon 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  where  the  1 14th 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  is  now  in  session.  The  speaker  will  be 
Albert  E.  Bowen,  member  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the 
Church,  and  the  subject :  "He  Is  Risen  From  the  Dead."  The  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  provides 
the  music  for  the  service.  Alexander  Schreiner  is  at  the  organ.  The 
choir  opens  with  the  Easter  anthem — "Our  Risen  Lord,"  by  Harvey  Gaul. 

((The  Choir  sang  "Our  Risen  Lord,"  by  Gaul.) 

Announcer,  Richard  L.  Evans:  We  now  give  the  service  into  the 
hands  of  Albert  E.  Bowen,  a  member  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

ELDER  ALBERT  E,  BOWEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

The  Sorrow  of  Mothers 

Perhaps  no  day  now  goes  by  that  some  home  is  not  made  desolate  by 
receipt  of  a  message  from  the  war  or  navy  department  beginning:  "We 
regret  to  inform  you.  ..."  Then  a  few  phrases  about  courage,  devotion 
to  duty,  dying  gloriously,  and  some  mother  knows  the  dull  heavy  thud 
of  a  heartbreak  signalling  blasted  hopes  for  her  boy  that  will  not  come 
home  again.  No  one  may  know  what  reveries  troop  through  her  mind 
as  she  sits  alone,  disconsolate  . .  .The  boy  that  lay  nestled  under  her  heart, 
the  boy  she  nourished  from  her  own  body  during  his  helpless  infancy, 
the  boy  for  whose  future  she  had  dreamed  dreams  into  which  were  woven 
the  praises  of  men's  tongues  as  they  extolled  his  achievements  and  whose 
children  should  one  day  sit  upon  her  knee  as  she  told  them  the  story  of 
,his  rise  to  fame.  .  .  .  Now  all  seems  ended,  the  promise  of  life  cut  off, 
made  fruitless,  all  sacrifices  and  strivings  vain.  Her  boy  is  dead,  victim 
of  blundering  human  stupidity  in  a  recreant,  wilfully-disobedient  world. 

Then,  perhaps,  as  she  sits  with  her  musings,  companioned  by  despair, 
she  sees  a  vision  of  hope  born  of  the  story  of  that  other  mother,  who  with 
a  few  women  and  one  lone  disciple,  watched  so  long  ago  at  the  foot  of 
the  cross  as  her  first  born,  nailed  high  upon  it,  died  in  agony  between 
malefactors,  'mid  the  jeers  and  taunts  of  a  ribald  soldiery  and  the  gloat- 
ings  of  apparently  victorious,  bigoted  and  vengeful  adversaries.  His  birth 
had  been  heaven-proclaimed,  for  the  angel  of  God  came  to  that  mother 
at  Nazareth  and  said : 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN  127 


Fear  not,  Mary :  for  thou  hast  found  favour  with  God. 
.  .  .  thou  shalt  conceive  .  .  .  and  bring  forth  a  son,  and  shalt  call  his 
name  Jesus. 

He  shall  be  great,  and  shall  be  called  the  Son  of  the  Highest:  and  the 
Lord  God  shall  give  unto  him  the  throne  of  his  father  David : 

And  he  shall  reign  over  the  house  of  Jacob  for  ever ;  and  of  his  kingdom 
there  shall  be  no  end.  (Luke  1 : 30-33.) 

Then  the  bereft  mother  of  today  may  catch  an  understanding  glimpse 
of  the  conflicting  emotions  which  must  have  tugged  and  pulled  at  the 
heart  of  Mary  as,  after  seeing  him  laid  in  the  tomb,  she  reviewed  the 
checkered  and  mysterious  life  of  this  heaven-heralded  Son. 

Reviewing  Events  In  the  Savior's  Life 

Etched  ineffaceably  upon  her  memory  must  have  been  that  angelic 
salutation:  "Hail,  thou  that  art  highly  favored,  the  Lord  is  with  thee, 
blessed  art  thou  among  women."  And  again  her  heart  must  have  throbbed 
as  she  recalled  the  prediction  of  eternal  kingship  for  her  promised  Child. 
As  memory's  scroll  unrolled,  she  would  live  again  those  thirty  years  of 
filial  obedience  until  he  went  to  be  baptized  of  that  strange  man,  John. 
She  would  relive  that  long  vigil  in  the  wilderness,  where  he  scorned  the 
temptation  to  prostitute  his  power  or  to  barter  his  soul  for  all  the  king- 
doms of  the  world  and  their  glory.  Tracing  his  steps  back  to  his  native 
province  she  would  recall  how  he  "went  about  all  Galilee,  teaching  in 
their  synagogues  and  preaching  the  Gospel  of  the  kingdom,  and  healing 
all  manner  of  sickness  and  all  manner  of  disease  among  the  people. 

And  his  fame  went  throughout  all  Syria :  and  they  brought  unto  him 
all  sick  people  that  were  taken  with  divers  diseases  and  torments  .  .  .  and 
he  healed  them. 

And  there  followed  him  great  multitudes  of  people  from  Galilee,  and 
from  Decapolis,  and  from  Jerusalem,  and  from  Judea,  and  from  beyond 
Jordan.  (Matthew  4:24-25.) 

She  would  probably  see  herself  seated  as  a  member  of  that  congrega- 
tion at  Nazareth  when  he  went  into  the  synagogue  on  the  Sabbath  day 
whence,  because  he  said  that  the  scriptures  were  fulfilled  in  him,  his  own 
townspeople  drove  him  out  and  through  the  city  to  the  edge  of  the  escape- 
ment with  evident  intent  to  cast  him  headlong  into  the  abyss  below.  But 
apparently  for  once  exercising  his  power  in  his  own  behalf  he  passed 
through  them  and  went  his  way.  There  would  pass  in  review  before  her 
mind  his  triumphal  entry  into  Jerusalem  when  the  people  thronged  to 
meet  Him  and  strewed  the  way  with  their  garments  and  with  palm 
branches  and  shouted :  "Hosanna  to  the  son  of  David :  Blessed  is  he  that 
cometh  in  the  name  of  the  Lord."  (Matthew  21 :9.) 

Again  she  would  hear  His  penetrating  words  from  the  side  of  the 
mountain  by  the  seashore  as  in  that  most  wonderful  of  all  sermons  ever 
uttered  by  the  lips  of  man  He  called  blessed  the  poor  in  spirit,  the 
meek,  the  merciful,  the  pure  in  heart,  the  peacemakers,  they  who  hunger 
and  thirst  after  righteousness  and  those  who  are  reviled  and  persecuted 
and  evil  spoken  of  for  His  name's  sake,  and  would  witness  again  in  retro- 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Third  Day 

spect  His  compassionate  feeding  of  the  multitude  and  see  them  attempt 
forcibly  to  crown  Him  king  only  to  turn  back  and  "walk  no  more  with 
him,"  when  he  explained  that  his  doctrines  laid  heavy  exactions  upon 
those  who  followed  him  in  the  matter  of  the  purity  and  fidelity  of  their 
personal  lives. 

Looking  back  she  would  recall  how  He  had  astonished  the  learned 
by  the  depth  of  His  understanding,  and  confounded  hypocritical  question- 
ers by  the  power  of  His  unfailing  wisdom  ;  how  He  showed  mercy  to  the 
sinner,  brought  comfort  to  the  disconsolate,  hope  to  the  oppressed,  cheer 
to  the  heavy  laden,  and  healing  to  the  broken  hearted. 

All  these  triumphs  Mary  must  have  witnessed  or  heard  report  of. 
And  then  last  of  all  would  come  the  sickening  vision  of  His  being  tried 
before  Herod  and  Pilate,  meekly  submitting  to  be  dressed  in  a  purple 
robe,  with  a  crown  of  thorns  crushed  upon  His  brow,  and  mocked  and 
scourged.  And  finally  there  would  haunt  her  the  sight  of  His  staggering 
under  the  weight  of  His  own  cross  and  dying  in  agony  upon  it. 

What  was  to  be  made  of  it  all  ?  This  ignominious  death  seemed  to 
spell  the  failure  of  His  life,  the  frustration  of  His  mission  and  the 
thwarting  of  the  promise  of  perpetual  reign  over  the  kingdom  which 
should  be  without  end. 

The  Wonder  of  the  Resurrection 

But  Mary  had  not  long  to  wrestle  with  these  perplexities  for :  "In 
the  end  of  the  Sabbath,  as  it  began  to  dawn  toward  the  first  day  of  the 
week  .  . ,"  came  the  women  to  the  sepulchre  to  perform  certain  unfinished 
offices  for  the  dead.  Their  wonder  grew  as  an  angel  who  was  seated  upon 
the  stone  which  had  been  rolled  back  from  the  door  of  the  tomb  said : 

Fear  not  ye :  for  I  know  that  ye  seek  Jesus,  which  was  crucified. 
He  is  not  here:  for  he  is  risen,  as  he  said  .  .  .  And  go  quickly  and  tell  his 
disciples  that  he  is  risen  from  the  dead.  .  .  .  (Matthew  28:1-7.) 

Such  is  the  glorious  message  of  that  great  triumphal  morning.  It 
bore  to  Mary  the  answer  to  her  bewilderment.  Now  she  could  know  the 
promises  for  her  Son  made  at  the  annunciation  had  not  failed,  that  his 
life  of  anxiety  and  care  and  suffering  and  sorrow  had  not  been  in  vain. 
So  in  like  manner  may  every  brooding  mother  who  has  received  a  "We 
regret  to  inform  you"  letter  draw  strength  from  the  assurance  that  the 
life  of  her  loved  one  has  not  failed.  Perhaps,  within  his  finite  limita- 
tions, in  a  weak  similitude  of  the  great  vicarious  offering  of  the  Lord  for 
the  redemption  of  the  race,  her  boy,  too.  has  given  his  life,  a  vicarious 
offering.  For  in  this  world  he  himself  will  never  reap  the  fruits  of  his 
own  sacrifice. 

As  such  mother  sits  alone  with  her  anguish  and  reviews  the  events 
of  the  life  of  her  martyred  son  there  may  unfold  before  her  vision  the 
scroll  upon  which  are  written  the  experiences  of  Mary,  the  mother  of 
the  Son  of  God,  and  from  the  final  triumph  of  His  life  she  may  draw  the 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN  129 

sustaining  power  of  hope  and  faith ;  for  the  resurrection  is  as  universal 
as  the  race. 

Its  bringing  about  was  the  great  crowning  achievement  of  Christ's 
life.  To  that  consummation  its  whole  course  had  been  directed.  As  He 
approached  the  time  of  His  agony,  He  said,  "but  for  this  cause  came  I 
unto  this  hour."  (John  12:27.) 

"And  I,  if  I  be  lifted  up  from  the  earth,"  said  He  again,  "will  draw 
all  men  unto  me."  (John  12 :32.) 

Further  He  told  His  disciples :  "Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  Except 
a  corn  of  wheat  fall  into  the  ground  and  die,  it  abideth  alone:  but  if  it 
die,  it  bringeth  forth  much  fruit."  (John  12:24.) 

So  His  death  and  burial  and  resurrection  from  the  dead  bears  fruit 
in  the  raising  of  all  who  die.  That  was  the  whole  burden  of  the  message 
of  the  disciples. 

Paul's  Testimony  Before  Agrippa 

Paul,  standing  in  bonds  before  Agrippa,  said : 

At  midday,  O  king,  I  saw  in  the  way  a  light  from  heaven,  above  the 
brightness  of  the  sun,  shining  round  about  me  and  them  which  journeyed 
with  me. 

And  when  we  were  all  fallen  to  the  earth,  I  heard  a  voice  speaking  unto 
me,  and  saying  in  the  Hebrew  tongue,  Saul,  Saul,  why  persecutest  thou 
me?  it  is  hard  for  thee  to  kick  against  the  pricks. 

And  I  said,  Who  art  thou,  Lord  ?  And  he  said,  I  am  Jesus  whom  thou 
persecutest.  (Acts  26:13-15.) 

These  are  not  the  words  of  an  unlettered  man,  nor  of  one  infatuated 
by  living  under  the  spell  of  the  powerful  personality  of  Jesus,  or  deluded 
by  the  stories  told  of  Him  by  His  admirers.  For  by  his  own  confession 
Paul  had  lived  a  Pharisee,  the  strictest  sect  of  his  religion,  they  who  had 
been  the  subjects  of  the  Lord's  severest  chastisements. 

He  hated  the  Christians  with  a  bitter  hate.  He  had  testified  against 
them  when  they  were  condemned  to  death ;  had  hounded  them  from  city 
to  city,  thrown  them  into  prison,  compelled  them  to  blaspheme,  and  had 
vilely  persecuted  them.  He  was  on  such  mission  to  Damascus  when  the 
light  appeared  before  him  in  the  way  and  he  heard  the  risen  Lord's  voice. 
The  reality  of  his  experience — the  sincerity  of  his  conversion — is  at- 
tested by  the  devotion  of  his  subsequent  life,  enduring  shipwreck,  priva- 
tion, persecution,  chains,  and  finally  death  for  his  testimony  of  the  reality 
of  the  atoning  sacrifice  of  Jesus.  With  faultless  logic  he  wrote  to  the 
Corinthians : 

Now  if  Christ  be  preached  that  he  arose  from  the  dead,  how  say  some 

among  you  that  there  is  no  resurrection  of  the  dead? 

But  if  there  be  no  resurrection  of  the  dead,  then  is  Christ  not  risen : 
And  if  Christ  be  not  risen,  then  is  our  preaching  vain,  and  your  faith 

is  also  vain. 


But  now  is  Christ  risen  from  the  dead,  and  become  the  firstfruits  of 
them  that  slept.  (I  Cor.  15  :12-20.) 


130  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

That  doctrine  is  the  center  and  pivot  of  Christian  theology,  the 
foundation  of  the  Christian  religion,  the  very  basis  of  Christian  hope. 
Strip  that  dogma  from  your  creed,  and  you  destroy  Christianity.  Take 
it  away,  and  you  devitalize  your  New  Testament,  for  it  is  the  fundamental 
fact  of  that  whole  record. 

Mr.  Moody's  Advice  To  A  Young  Preacher 

It  is  related  that  in  Europe,  the  great  evangelist,  Mr.  Moody,  was 
asked  by  a  young  minister,  "What  makes  the  difference  between  the  suc- 
cess of  your  preaching  and  mine;  one  of  us  is  wrong?" 

Moody  said :  "You  have  heard  me  preach  and  I  haven't  heard  you, 
you  tell  me  the  difference."  The  minister  answered :  "You  make  a  good 
deal  out  of  the  death  of  Christ.  ...  I  don't  think  that  has  anything  to  do 
with  it.   I  preach  life." 

Then  Mr.  Moody  quoted  him  several  scriptures  declaring  the  atone- 
ment and  asked  the  young  preacher  with  respect  to  each,  "What  do  you 
do  with  that?"  He  said  in  each  instance,  "I  never  preached  that,"  and 
finally  asserted:  "I  think  the  whole  thing  is  a  sham."  Then  said  Mr. 
Moody : 

"I  advise  you  to  get  out  of  the  ministry  very  quickly.  I  would  not 
preach  a  sham.  If  the  Bible  is  untrue,  let  us  stop  preaching,  and  come 
out  like  men  and  fight  against  it  if  it  is  a  sham  and  untrue ;  but  if  these 
things  are  true,  and  Jesus  Christ  left  heaven  and  came  into  this  world 
to  shed  His  blood  and  save  sinners,  then  let  us  lay  hold  of  it  and  preach 
it  in  season  and  out  of  season." 

That  is  one  of  the  things  that  admit  of  no  compromise.  It  is  of  the 
"all  or  none"  variety.  The  same  record  which  recounts  the  miracle  of 
the  resurrection  contains  all  we  know  about  the  moral  teachings  of  Jesus. 
You  can't  very  well  repudiate  it  as  to  the  one  and  enlist  enthusiastic  al- 
legiance for  it  in  respect  of  the  other.  Today  is  kept  a  memorial  by  all 
Christendom.  The  very  commemoration  of  the  day  assumes  the  reality 
of  the  occurrence  it  signalizes,  for  you  cannot  commemorate  an  event  that 
never  happened. 

The  Resurrection  the  Foundation  of  Faith  And  Hope 

The  great  stumbling  block  to  acceptance  of  the  crucifixion  and  the 
resurrection,  seems  to  be  that  they  are  thought  opposed  to  natural  law. 
But  what  is  natural  law  ?  Who  established  it  ?  It  is  conceded  on  almost 
all  sides  that  there  is  a  supernatural  law  operative  in  this  universe.  Who 
is  to  say  that  in  effecting  the  purposes  of  God  it  may  not  transcend 
natural  law?  If  you  grant  God  at  all,  does  it  seem  consistent  to  suppose 
that  He  set  laws  in  motion  which  froze  Him  outside  of  them  and  ren- 
dered Him  impotent  before  the  works  of  His  own  hands  ? 

We  know  so  little  about  this  wondrous  world  in  which  increasing 
knowledge  only  reveals  vistas  stretching  further  and  further  into  the 
realm  of  the  unknown  that  he  must  be  a  reckless  man  indeed  who  would 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALL1S 


131 


dare  affirm  of  his  own  finite  wisdom  what  is  and  what  is  not  possible 
with  God. 

In  far  too  great  degree  the  professedly  Christian  world  has  to  its 
own  obvious  harm  become  apostate  to  the  reality  of  the  announcement, 
"He  is  risen  from  the  dead."  Take  away  belief  in  that  reality  and  you 
make  rubble  of  the  foundations  of  faith  and  rob  the  disconsolate  of  their 
fairest  hope. 

The  record  tells  of  an  occurrence  when  Jesus  with  His  disciples  and 
"much  people"  was  entering  the  city  called  Nain.  They  were  met  by  a 
funeral  procession  taking  to  his  burial  the  only  son  of  a  widow.  Having 
compassion  upon  that  mother,  Jesus  bade  her  cease  weeping  and  bidding 
the  young  man  to  arise  from  the  bier  He  delivered  him  alive  to  her.  As 
He  stopped  that  funeral  procession  and  restored  the  dead  to  life  so  by 
His  death  and  resurrection  He  has  stopped  forever  the  triumph  of  death 
for  all  men. 

To  every  weeping  mother  the  empty  tomb  proclaims  aloud  the  glad 
tidings  that  whether  the  bones  of  her  child  lie  bleaching  on  Africa's  hot 
sands,  or  find  their  rest  in  the  bottom  of  the  sea,  or  his  body  is  lowerd  in- 
to the  grave  he  shall  be  raised  up  again  and  live. 

(Theme :  Sweet  is  the  Work — organ  with  humming  choir.) 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  now  resume  the  regular  session  of  this  Conference.  We  had 
as  the  last  speaker,  as  has  been  announced,  Elder  Albert  E.  Bowen,  who 
gave  us  a  beautiful  and  truthful  and  uplifting  Easter  sermon,  carrying, 
I  am  sure,  hope  and  cheer  to  every  saddened  heart.  May  we  hope  that 
somehow  that  great  message  may  have  reached  our  sons  in  the  field. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  t 
r~  ■  x 

I  humbly  pray  God  for  the  guidance  of  His  teaching  spirit. 
There  is  a  continuous  freshness  in  the  fundamental  principles  of  the 
Gospel.  They  never  grow  out  of  date.  Fortunate  is  the  man  who  trans- 
lates them  into  his  life. 

Faith  A  Motivating  Power 

■ 

In  his  masterly  presentation  of  faith  and  his  great  appeal  for  faith, 
the  apostle  Paul  citing  the  examples  of  the  heroes  of  faith  of  the  Old 
Testament  said  : 

Now,  faith  is  the  substance  of  things  hoped  for,  the  evidence  of  things 
not  seen. 


132  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

We  know,  as  though  we  had  seen  them,  the  creation  of  the  earth, 
the  deluge,  the  birth,  crucifixion,  and  resurrection  of  our  dear  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  We  hope  for  the  millennium,  when  swords  shall  be  beaten 
into  plowshares,  and  spears  into  pruning  hooks.  We  hope  for  the  glorious 
resurrection  of  the  Saints  of  God  and  the  re-appearance  of  Jesus  Christ 
in  the  splendor  and  glory  of  immortality. 

"Through  faith,"  Paul  said,  "we  understand  that  the  worlds  were 
framed  by  the  word  of  God."  I  am  one  who  fondly  hopes  and  believes 
that  in  the  spirit  world,  our  pre-existent  state,  through  the  faith  we  exer- 
cised and  prayers  we  offered  before  the  throne  of  God,  that  this  earth  was 
created,  to  which  we  might  come,  and  by  taking  mortality  upon  ourselves, 
go  on  to  eternal  perfection  and  immortality. 

The  Apostle  Paul  continues : 

But  without  faith  it  is  impossible  to  please  him :  for  he  that  cometh  to 
God  must  believe  that  he  is,  and  that  he  is  a  rewarder  of  them  that  diligent- 
ly seek  him. 

Thus  we  are  taught  that  faith  is  one  of  the  powers  upon  which  eternal 
life  is  based. 

At  the  close  of  this  war  we  are  going  to  witness  a  remarkable  and 
mighty  miracle  of  faith.  We  shall  be  under  the  necessity  of  remaking  a 
world,  of  building  up  a  new  world.  God  grant  that  we  may  build  it  up 
unto  Htm.  A  poetess  has  said : 

I  never  understood  how  man  could  dare 
To  watch  a  city  shaken  to  the  ground,  > 
To  feel  the  tremors,  hear  the  tragic  sound 
Of  houses  twisting,  crashing  everywhere 
And  not  be  conquered  by  a  sick  despair. 
Although  his  building  crumbles  to  a  mound 
Of  worthless  ruin,  man  has  always  found 
The  urge  to  build  a  stronger  city  there. 

Within  my  soul  I  made  my  towers  high. 

They  lie  in  ruins,  yet  I  have  begun 

To  build  again,  now  planning  to  restore 

What  life  has  shaken  to  the  earth ; 

And  I,  in  faith,  shall  build  my  towers  toward  the  sun 

A  stronger  city  than  was  there  before. 

— Gertrude  Ryder  Bennett* 

God's  Purpose  Being  Fulfilled 

Henry  Grady,  the  great  southern  orator,  declared,  after  the  Civil 
War :  "Fields  that  were  red  with  human  blood,  are  green  with  the  harvests 
of  June.   The  reins  have  not  slipped  from  God's  hands." 

His  purposes  will  be  fulfilled,  and  this  old  world  is  not  going  to  burst 
asunder,  and  civilization  shall  never  perish  from  the  earth  while  the 
Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  taught,  while  the  Priesthood  of  God 
still  remains  upon  the  earth. 

♦Reprinted  by  permission  of  Good  Housekeeping  and  G.  P.  Putnam  Sons,  Pub- 
lishers. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS  133 

I  am  not  vain  nor  egotistical  when  I  say  that  I  believe  with  all  my 
heart  that  the  Priesthood  of  God,  this  great  Church,  because  of  the  great 
mission  to  be  performed,  is  holding  this  old  world  together,  and  the  mis- 
sionary work  to  be  accomplished  after  this  war  is  going  to  make  our  hearts 
overflow  with  joy. 

The  servants  of  our  Father  shall  go  out,  and  where  they  are  baptiz- 
ing one  today,  they  shall  baptize  a  score,  or  hundreds,  yea  a  thousand, 
for  every  knee  shall  bend  and  every  tongue  confess  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ. 

I  believe,  I  have  faith,  that  this  terrible  war,  with  all  its  death  and 
ravages,  is  bringing  men  nearer  to  God.  That  has  been  the  rule  in  the 
centuries  that  are  passed.   An  ancient  prophet  said : 

"When  I  was  afflicted,  I  learned  thy  statutes." 

But  in  dissipation,  in  idleness,  in  immorality,  in  wickedness,  we 
never  learn  much  about  God.  It  is  only  when  God  touches  our  heart  and 
makes  us  all  mourn,  because  of  the  grief  in  the  world,  that  we  feel  after 
Him.  For  a  touch  of  trouble  makes  us  all  akin,  and  we  look  unto  the 
Lord.  Affliction  and  sorrow  have  brought  more  souls  to  God  than  all 
the  joy  of  the  world. 

The  Destiny  of  America 

We  read  of  a  great  postwar  program.  Is  it  not  pathetic  that  in  all 
these  postwar  declarations  the  name  of  God  is  seldom,  if  ever,  mentioned? 
The  best  postwar  program  is  found  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  May  I  read 
the  words  of  the  Lord : 

Bcliold,  this  land,  said  God,  shall  be  a  land  of  thine  inheritance,  and  the 
Gentiles  shall  be  blessed  upon  the  land. 

And  this  land  shall  he  a  land  of  liberty  unto  the  Gentiles,  and  there 
shall  be  no  kings  upon  the  land,  who  shall  raise  up  unto  the  Gentiles.  .  .  . 

And,  now,  listen : 

And  I  wdl  fortify  this  land  against  all  other  nations. 

And  he  that  fighteth  against  Zion  shall  perish,  saith  God. 

For  he  that  raiseth  up  a  king  against  me  shall  perish,  for  I  the  Lord, 
the  king  of  heaven,  will  be  their  king,  and  1  will  be  a  light  unto  them  for- 
ever, that  hear  my  words.  (II  Nephi  10:10-14.) 

Here  is  a  divine  pledge  of  the  perpetuity  of  our  glorious  republic, 
conditioned  upon  our  obedience  unto  God,  conditioned  upon  our  effort, 
our  determination,  and  our  labors  to  cleanse  the  land  of  the  accursed 
thing,  which  is  sin  ;  and  you  know  the  form  in  which  sin  lurks  and  is  often 
disguised.  I  hope  and  pray  that  this  nation,  after  this  war,  and  during 
the  war  shall  fortify  this  land  to  such  an  extent,  and  place  it  in  such  a 
condition  of  invulnerability  that  the  nations  of  the  earth,  as  God  says  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  shall  say  :  "Let  us  not  go  up  to  battle  against 
Zion  for  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  are  terrible."  America  is  Zion,  from 
north  to  south,  from  east  to  west. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


I  pray  that  after  the  war  our  government  will  furnish  employment 
for  every  inactive  laborer,  in  fortifying  this  country,  that  it  will  teach 
men  to  be  mechanics,  to  be  useful,  for  a  nation  that  harbors  idleness  is 
doomed  to  decay  and,  finally  destruction.  One  of  the  saddest  hours  of  a 
young  man's  life  is  when  he  sits  down  and  seeks  to  devise  ways  and  means 
for  earning  a  living  without  work.  It  is  the  wise  nation  that  keeps  its 
people  at  work.  The  men  who  want  that  bold  independence  that  only 
labor  can  buy  are  the  strength  of  the  nation.  Work  helps  a  people  to  be 
strong  in  the  worship  of  that  God,  who,  from  the  days  of  Adam,  has  con- 
demned slothfulness.   He  has  always  urged  men  and  women  to  work. 

Furthermore,  I  hope  that  our  nation,  now  and  forever,  so  long  as 
the  Star  Spangled  Banner  shall  float  in  the  breezes  of  heaven,  will  re- 
member the  words  of  Washington,  that  "to  be  prepared  for  war  is  the 
most  effectual  means  of  preserving  peace."  Also,  "  Tis  our  true  policy 
to  steer  clear  of  permanent  alliances  with  any  portion  of  the  foreign 
world."  God  destined  this  nation  to  be  a  light  to  the  world,  to  be  a  herald 
unto  every  nation,  and  nobly  we  will  fill  that  mission  if  we  serve  the  God 
of  this  land  and  abstain  from  all  uncleanness. 

The  Work  To  Be  Accomplished  By  The  Priesthood 

The  Savior,  just  before  His  ascension,  said  to  His  apostles : 

But  ye  shall  receive  power,  after  that  the  Holy  Ghost  is  come  upon 
you ;  and  ye  shall  be  witnesses  unto  me  both  in  Jerusalem,  and  in  all  Judea, 
and  in  Samaria,  and  unto  the  uttermost  part  of  the  earth.  (Acts  1  :8.) 

In  pursuance  of  that  glorious  promise,  Peter,  James  and  John  did 
come,  as  heavenly  beings,  unto  America,  to  the  uttermost  part  of  the 
earth,  to  the  uttermost  bounds  of  the  everlasting  hills,  as  Jacob  said,  when 
he  blessed  the  tribe  of  Joseph ;  and  there,  declaring  that  they  held  the 
keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  the  keys  of  this  last  dispensation,  they 
did  lay  their  hands  upon  the  head  of  Joseph  Smith,  and  ordained  him  to 
the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  fulfilling  the  promise  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ. 

This  Priesthood  today  is  being  magnified  in  a  mighty  work.  By  the 
power  of  this  Priesthood  temples  are  built,  and  work  for  the  living  and 
the  dead  has  been  inaugurated,  the  Gospel  is  being  preached,  and  true  to 
its  mission,  by  the  power  of  the  holy  Priesthood,  this  Church  is  preaching 
the  Gospel  to  every  nation  and  kindred  and  tongue  and  people  to  prepare 
the  way  for  the  glorious  second  coming  of  the  Son  of  God. 

This  I  testify  to,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


We  will  ask  the  mission  presidents  to  gather  here  at  the  foot  of  the 
stand  after  the  closing  of  the  meeting  so  that  the  parents  of  the  mission- 
aries may  come  and  visit  with  them. 


V 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR  135 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Edwin  Clawson  of 
the  Hyrum  Stake,  after  which  this  Conference  will  be  adjourned  until 
two  o'clock  this  afternoon.   The  afternoon  session  will  be  broadcast. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  "The  Hallelujah  Chorus,"  from  "The 
Messiah,"  by  Handel. 

President  Edwin  Clawson  of  the  Hyrum  Stake  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.m. 

THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at 
2  p.m.,  Sunday,  April  9th. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  is  the  seventh  and  closing  session  of  the  114th  Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are 
again  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

We  will  begin  the  afternoon  services  by  the  congregation  singing 
"Redeemer  of  Israel,"  (words  by  William  W.  Phelps).  Song  folder  No! 
3,  L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  231,  Hymn  Book  No.  194. 

Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  will  direct  the  singing,  and  Elder  Frank 
W.  Asper  is  at  the  organ. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel" — Words  by 
William  W.  Phelps  (L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  231). 

Elder  Thomas  J.  Brough,  President  of  the  Lyman  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

Singing  by  the  congregation,  "Now  Let  Us  Rejoice" — Words  by 
William  W.  Phelps  (L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  218). 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  feel  very  grateful  to  President  Clark  for  the  kindly  innovation  that 
we  have  had  in  this  Conference,  so  that  we  who  are  going  to  speak  have 
a  few  minutes  to  offer  up  another  prayer  to  our  Heavenly  Father  that  He 
will  not  leave  us  alone  as  we  stand  before  the  people. 

I  have  listened  with  interest  to  the  many  splendid  and  inspirational 


136  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  .  Third  Dug 

remarks  that  have  been  given  during  this  Conference.  I  am  quite  cer- 
tain that  the  inspiration  that  has  come  to  us  will  be  helpful  in  our  lives, 
and  that  we  will  be  able  to  do  finer  and  better  things  than  we  have  ever 
done  before. 

The  Preaching  oe  the  Gospel  Obligatory 

The  Church  of  God  has  always  been  a  missionary  church.  When- 
ever the  Gospel  has  been  introduced  upon  the  earth,  'ways  and  means 
have  been  provided  for  the  children  of  men  to  have  the  same  opportunity 
for  hearing  and  understanding  the  Gospel,  and  of  finding  the  peace  and 
happiness  that  others  have  found  because  of  their  membership  in  the 
Church.  Seemingly  the  Lord  has  not  been  content  to  give  the  Gospel 
to  any  few  people,  but  has  always  made  it  obligatory  upon  those  who 
have  received  it  to  give  it  to  others.  We  only  find  happiness  for  the 
blessings  that  we  have  received  by  seeing  that  other  people  have  the  same 
opportunity. 

When  Christ  was  on  the  earth,  He  organized  His  Church,  chose  His 
apostles,  and  commenced  His  ministry  among  the  people.  He  also  chose 
a  group  of  men  called  seventies,  to  assist  in  bringing  the  glad  tidings  of 
great  joy  to  the  people  and  give  them  an  opportunity  of  receiving  sal- 
vation in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

The  last  words  that  the  Savior  uttered  as  He  finished  His  mission 
upon  the  earth  were  that  His  disciples  should  go  into  all  the  world  and 
preach  the  Gospel.  When  He  was  upon  the  cross,  and  was  about  to 
give  up  His  life  that  men  and  women  might  live  again  in  the  presence  of 
God,  He  said  unto  the  thief  who  hung  at  His  side :  "Today  shalt  thou 
be  with  me  in  paradise."  Seemingly,  as  soon  as  His  spirit  left  His  body, 
He  then  commenced  a  great  missionary  work  among  the  spirits  in  prison. 
He  went  to  open  the  doors  not  only  to  the  people  who  had  not  lived  ac- 
cording to  the  laws  of  the  Lord,  but  to  all  good  men  and  women  who  had 
lived  the  laws  of  the  Lord,  according  to  their  best  information  and  ability. 

He  made  it  possible  for  those  on  the  earth  to  have  comfort  in  the 
thought  of  salvation  and  forgiveness  for  their  loved  ones  who  had  gone 
to  the  other  side  without  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel.  He  brought  the 
message  to  those  in  the  spirit  world  that  they  should  also  have  the  oppor- 
tunity of  repenting  of  their  sins  and  finding  happiness,  in  the  presence  of 
our  Heavenly  Father. 

We  believe  that  as  men  and  women  go  on  the  other  side,  they  find 
opportunity  and  are  assigned  to  proclaim  this  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
that  men  might  not  be  found  wanting  as  they  stand  before  the  judgment 
seat  of  God,  even  though  they  be  in  the  spirit  world. 

The  Missionary  Spirit  in  Temple  Work 

We  are  trying  to  do  all  we  can  in  using  our  temples  to  see  that  men 
and  women  find  this  comfort  and  blessing.  You  remember  we  received 
a  letter  not  long  ago  stating  that  there  were  100,000  names  of  men  whose 
temple  work  had  not  been  finished,  and  that  they  could  not  have  all  the 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR  137 

■  ■ 

blessings  they  might  have  if  their  work  had  been  done.  So  the  plea  has 
been  made  that  in  this  great  missionary  spirit  of  ours  the  men  shall  do 
the  work  for  these  one  hundred  thousand  whose  names  are  already  pre- 
pared and  ready,  that  those  on  the  other  side  might  find  the  added  bless- 
ings and  the  joys  because  of  the  temple  work  having  been  done  for  them. 

I  sincerely  trust  that  our  men  will  not  be  found  wanting  in  this  great 
missionary  service. 

The  Gospel  Being  Preached  at  Home  and  Abroad 

There  is  another  agency  that  has  always  been  used  in  missionary 
work,  and  that  is  the  foreign  missions.  We  are  doing  all  that  we  can  with 
the  few  missionaries  who  are  available.  Our  ranks  are  practically  de- 
pleted as  far  as  the  foreign  missionaries  are  concerned.  In  mission  offi-. 
ces  we  are  having  lady  missionaries  to  take  care  of  the  business  part  of 
the  work,  but  in  a  few  months  the  boys  will  be  back  home  and  taken  into 
the  army.  ' 

It  has  been  very  fortunate  that  older  men,  sometimes  with  their 
wives,  have  seen  the  necessity,  or  at  least  they  are  taking  hold  of  the 
opportunity  that  is  presenting  itself  of  going  out  into  the  world  for  six 
months,  or  even  on  a  regular  mission.  These  older  missionaries  fill  a  great 
need  caused  by  the  exodus  of  our  missionaries  into  the  armed  forces. 

I  am  in  hopes,  and  I  am  sure  as  a  Church  we  are  all  in  hopes — that 
all  the  people  will  realize  that  the  time  is  short  and  the  harvest  is  still 
plentiful,  and  that  we  who  hold  the  Priesthood  of  the  Lord  ought  to  find 
opportunity,  if  there  is  any  way  possible,  of  going  out  and  performing 
this  work. 

Another  great  missionary  agency  is  carried  on  by  the  home  mission- 
aries in  our  stakes  and  in  the  mission  fields.  Men  and  women  who  are 
very  anxious  to  bring  the  word  of  the  Lord  unto  the  people  are  giving 
good  service.  As  was  said  the  other  day,  we  are  finding  very  many  peo- 
ple here  in  our  home  towns  who  are  anxious  and  willing  to  hear  the 
word  of  the  Lord.  I  trust  that  we  may  be  able  to  increase  the  number 
laboring  in  heme  missions. 

I  remember  while  I  was  in  Nottingham  on  my  first  mission  that  we 
would  go  to  Sunday  School  in  the  forenoon  and  Saints  would  take  us 
home  in  the  afternoon  for  our  lunch,  and  then  when  lunch  was  over,  all 
of  us,  missionaries  and  Saints,  old  and  young,  used  to  take  our  tracts, 
and  go  out  for  two  or  three  hours  and  preach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  am  wondering  whether  we  have  taken  advantage  of  every  oppor- 
tunity of  preaching  the  word  of  the  Lord.  While  we  are  busy  and  have 
many  things  to  do,  I  am  quite  sure  if  we  would  only  think  about  this  mat- 
ter more  seriously,  we  would  find  times  when  this  great  body  of  Priest- 
hood could  go  out  for  at  least  a  few  hours  and  preach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  I  think  it  was  in  Washington  Stake  where  the  seventies'  quorum 
had  decided  that  on  Sunday,  after  the  morning  services,  they  would  go 
out  and  tract  among  the  people.  So  they  went  in  their  automobiles  and 
reached  some  of  the  outside  places,  and  there  they  would  spend  two  or 
three  hours  in  preaching  the  Gospel. 


138  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

When  I  go  among  our  seventies  and  see  the  great  body  of  men  who 
have  been  in  the  mission  field  and  are  trained  and  experienced,  wonder- 
ing what  they  can  do  in  their  seventies'  quorum,  I  ask  why  do  they  not 
develop  ways  and  means  of  doing  missionary  work ;  why  shouldn't  all  of 
us  use  part  of  the  week  or  part  of  the  month,  in  doing  missionary  work, 
to  the  blessing  and  salvation  of  our  neighbors  and  friends. 

Missionary  Work  by  Our  Armed  Service  Men 

I  am  thinking  also  of  another  great  agency  that  is  at  work  at  the 
present  time,  and  that  is  our  boys,  and  young  women,  in  the  service  of  our 
country — boys  who  have  been  taken  out  of  the  mission  field  and  sent  in 
to  do  their  part  for  their  country.  I  have  often  thought,  brethren,  that 
if  the  government  was  only  as  wise  as  they  thought  they  were  they  would 
rather  insist  that  all  the  Mormon  boys  have  an  opportunity  of  doing  mis- 
sionary work  before  going  into  the  armed  services,  because  every  re- 
turned missionary  who  goes  into  the  armed  forces  brings  with  him  a 
testimony  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  He  brings  with  him  the  thought 
of  cleanliness  and  splendidness  of  life.  He  brings  with  him  everything 
that  ought  to  be  in  the  hearts  of  men  and  women  as  they  labor  in  the  cause 
of  their  country.  Our  boys  and  girls  are  surely  doing  a  wonderful  and  a 
splendid  work  as  they  associate  with  their  companions  in  service. 

They  are  clean  fellows.  Just  recently,  I  met  one  of  them  at  a  bus 
stop  in  Wendover.  I  had  gone  into  the  eating  place  in  the  station.  The 
place  was  crowded,  and  everybody,  it  seemed  to  me,  was  smoking  or 
drinking,  or  gambling.  As  I  went  toward  the  door  a  young  fellow  in 
uniform  came  up  to  me,  and  said:  "Brother  Taylor,  I  am  surely  glad 
to  see  you.  You  ordained  me  a  Seventy  when  I  went  into  the  mission 
field."  Just  a  young  boy,  yet  the  influence  he  had  in  that  building  and  on 
the  busses  and  on  the  trains  was  teaching  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to 
the  people  in  the  most  splendid  way. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  brethren  and  sisters,  may  the  Lord  help  us, 
that  we  may  feel  the  obligation  in  some  way  or  somehow  of  bringing  a 
knowledge  of  the  Gospel  to  the  people  who  have  not  yet  heard  the  Gospel. 
If  we  will  meet  this  requirement,  great  shall  be  our  reward  for  helping 
others  to  understand  the  beauty  of  the  way  of  life  and  salvation. 

May  this  be  our  part,  I  pray,  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters :  I  have  repeatedly  and  earnestly 
sought  the  Lord  that  His  spirit  would  be  with  me  while  I  occupy  a  few 
minutes  of  these  precious  moments,  and  I  ask  you  if  you  will  please  join 
your  prayers  with  mine,  that  this  time  may  be  profitable  to  us  all. 

I  believe  the  phrase  most  frequently  spoken  in  this  Conference  has 
been  "the  spirit  of  the  Lord."  Nearly  every  speaker  who  has  addressed 
us  has  expressed  his  wish,  his  prayer,  that  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  would 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNE) 


139 


I 

direct  what  he  said.  Nearly  every  man  who  has  offered  a  prayer,  either 
an  opening  prayer  or  a  closing  prayer,  has  prayed  for  the  same  thing.  I 
am  persuaded  that  in  these  Conference  sessions  we  have  had  a  rich  out- 
pouring of  the  spirit  of  the  Lord. 

Speaking  by  the  Power  of  the  Holy  Ghost 

The  other  day  Brother  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  spoke  of  the  spirit 
of  the  Lord  that  enlightens  every  man  who  comes  into  this  world.  I  think 
the  spirit  of  the  Lord  which  we  seek  in  administering  the  affairs  of  the 
Church  is  more  than  that  spirit.  When  I  pray  for  the  spirit  of  the  Lord 
to  direct  me  in  this  talk,  I  pray  for  the  spirit  of  revelation,  the  help  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  You  know,  the  Lord  said  that  we  should  have  this  spirit  by 
the  prayer  of  faith,  and  He  said  further  if  we  did  not  have  the  spirit, 
we  should  not  teach. 

Nephi  said  on  one  occasion  that  "when  a  man  speaketh  by  the  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  carrieth  it  unto  the 
hearts  of  the  children  of  men."  I  am  persuaded  that  one  of  the  deepest 
truths,  the  most  glorious  principles,  revealed  to  the  world  through  the 
restoration,  by  the  Lord,  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  was  the 
doctrine  that  every  man  and  every  woman  and  every  boy  and  every  girl 
who  has  reached  the  age  of  accountability  and  has  joined  the  Church 
may  have  the  spirit  of  the  Lord,  that  is;  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  to 
guide  him  through  his  life.  I  mean  by  this  direct  communication  with, 
revelation  from,  God  our  eternal  Father. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  taught  this  in  a  wonderful  way.  In  the 
last  chapter,  quoting  Moroni,  he  told  us  how  to  get  a  testimony  of  the 
truthfulness  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  We  are  not  left  to  take  the  word 
and  testimony  of  the  Prophet  and  of  the  three  and  eight  witnesses  only, 
but  he  there  told  us  that  when  we  read  the  book,  if  we  will  ask  God  the 
eternal  Father  in  faith,  He  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  us,  individ- 
ually, I  take  it,  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  that  by  the  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  we  may  know  the  truth  of  all  things. 

The  Exercise  of  Faith  Necessary 

You  remember  the  occasion  when  Brother  Newell  K.  Whitney  was 
called  to  be  a  bishop  in  Kirtland.  Brother  Partridge  was  over  in  Zion 
at  that  time,  as  I  recall.  Brother  Whitney  was  a  great  man,  measured 
by  the  standards  of  the  world,  but  when  the  Prophet  told  him  that  he  was 
to  be  a  bishop,  he  said  that  he  could  not  see  the  qualifications  of  a  bishop 
in  himself.  The  Prophet  said :  "You  need  not  take  my  word  alone. 
Go  and  ask  Father  for  yourself."  At  that  slight  rebuke,  Brother  Whit- 
ney went  and  asked  the  Lord.  He  heard  a  voice  speak  to  him  saying : 
"Thy  strength  is  in  me."  This  was  a  revelation  to  him,  and  "he  straight- 
way sought  the  Prophet,  told  him  he  was  satisfied,  and  was  willing  to 
accept  the  office  to  which  he  had  been  called." 

Then  you  remember  when  the  Prophet  was  asking  for  volunteers 
to  come  out  to  this  western  country  to  make  a  survey  looking  for  a  place 


140  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

where  the  Saints  might  come,  he  described  what  kind  of  men  he  wanted. 
He  described  what  their  equipment  must  be,  and  then  he  said :  "I  want 
every  man  that  goes  to  be  a  king  and  a  priest.  When  he  gets  on  the 
mountain,  he  may  want  to  talk  with  his  God." 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  knew  this  doctrine  was  true;  he  knew 
from  experience.  He  knew  because  he  had  had  the  experience  of  talking 
with  God,  our  eternal  Father.  This  great  latter-day  work,  the  restora- 
tion, opened  up  with  a  grand  vision,  referred  to  by  President  David  O 
McKay  this  morning,  in  which  the  Father  and  the  Son  came  and  ap- 
peared to  the  boy  prophet,  Joseph  Smith.  It  came  as  a  result  of  his 
prayer  and  his  faith. 

About  a  year  and  a  half  ago,  I  was  given  an  assignment  in  the  Wel- 
fare work  to  travel  around  the  Church  into  all  the  stakes.  I  took  with  me 
the  first  volume  of  the  Documentary  History  of  the  Church.  As  I  read, 
I  observed  that  when  questions  came  to  the  mind  of  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
he  straightway  went  and  in  mighty  prayer  asked  the  Lord  for  an  answer 
to  the  questions.  Then  he  would  come  back  with  an  answer  from  the 
Lord  in  direct  quotations.  These  quotations  were  the  revelations  which 
came  during  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel. 

Experiences  of  Wilford  Woodruff  and  Brigham  Young 

Now,  it  is  very  important,  my  brethren,  that  we  each  live  so  that 
we  can  have  this  spirit  of  the  Lord.  Its  importance  did  not  cease  with 
the  death  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  In  1879,  two  years  after  the 
Prophet  Brigham  Young  had  died,  President  Wilford  Woodruff  was 
down  in  the  mountains  of  Arizona  traveling  with  Lot  Smith.  On  one 
occasion,  he  had  a  vision  or  a  dream  in  which  he  saw  Brigham  Young 
and  Orson  Hyde,  and  he  asked  Brigham  Young  if  he  would  not  come 
with  him  to  Arizona  and  speak  to  the  people.  Brigham  Young  answered 
that  he  had  done  his  talking  in  the  flesh  and  that  work  was  now  left  for 
Elder  Woodruff  and  others  to  do.  In  "his  diary,  President  Woodruff 
quotes  President  Young  as  saying :  "Tell  the  people  to  get  the  spirit  of 
the  Lord  and  keep  it  with  them." 

Brigham  Young  had  a  similar  experience  in  his  lifetime.  In  Feb- 
ruary, 1847,  he  had  a  dream  in  which  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  appeared 
to  him.  It  was  a  glorious  dream.  You  will  find  it  in  the  history  of  the 
Church  written  by  Brother  Cannon.  Brigham  Young  expressed  his  sor- 
row that  he  was  separated  from  the  companionship  of  President  Smith, 
the  Prophet,  and  asked  him  why  he  could  not  come  with  him.  The 
Prophet  told  him  he  would  have  to  wait  awhile. 

Then  Brigham  Young  asked  him  if  he  had  a  message  for  them,  and 
the  Prophet  stepped  toward  him,  looking  very  earnestly,  yet  patiently,  and 
said  (I  quote  from  the  words  of  the  Prophet  in  that  dream  of  Brigham 
Young's) : 

Tell  the  brethren  to  be  humble  and  faithful  and  be  sure  to  keep  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  that  it  will  lead  them  aright.  Be  careful  and  not  turn 
away  the  still,  small  voice ;  it  will  teach  them  what  to  do  and  where  to  go ; 
it  will  yield  the  fruits  of  the  kingdom.    Tell  the  brethren  to  keep  their 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


141 


hearts  open  to  conviction,  so  that  when  the  Holy  Ghost  comes  to  them, 
their  hearts  will  be  ready  to  receive  it. 

That  is  one  way,  brethren,  to  get  the  spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  it  is  one 
absolute  requirement  to  keep  our  hearts  open  to  conviction,  so  that  we 
can  hear  the  word  of  God  and  receive  the  Holy  Ghost's  promptings  when 
they  come.  It  is  a  terrible  calamity  for  men  or  nations  to  become  laws 
unto  themselves.  You  know,  the  Lord  said:  "That  which  seeketh  to 
become  a  law  unto  itself  . . .  cannot  be  sanctified  by  law,  neither  by  mercy, 
justice,  nor  judgment,  therefore  they  must  remain  filthy  still." 

The  Prophet,  in  this  statement  to  Brigham  Young,  continues  : 

They  can  tell  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  from  all  other  spirits — it  will 
whisper  peace  and  joy  to  their  souls;  it  will  take  malice,  hatred,  strife  and 
all  evil  from  their  hearts,  and  their  whole  desire  will  be  to  do  good,  bring 
forth  righteousness,  and  build  up  the  kingdom  of  God. 

The  Prayer  of  Enos 

When  I  read  that,  I  thought  of  the  experience  of  Enos,  the  son  of 
Jacob,  as  related  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  He  went  into  the  forest 
and  prayed  with  all  the  energy  of  his  soul  that  he  might  have  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  goodness  of  the  Lord  about  whom  his  father,  Jacob,  had 
told  him,  and  the  Lord  spoke  to  him  and  said :  "Enos,  thy  sins  are  for- 
given thee."  And  Enos  then  asked  how  it  could  be,  and  the  Lord  told 
him  because  of  his  faith  on  Jesus  Christ  whom  he  had  never  before  seen 
nor  heard.  Then  there  came  over  Enos  the  feeling  for  his  brethren,  and 
he  prayed  with  all  the  energy  of  his  soul  for  them,  first  for  the  Nephites 
and  then  for  the  Lamanites.  I  thought  how  true  this  is,  that  when  a  man 
has  the  spirit  of  the  Lord,  his  whole  desire  is  for  righteousness  and  to 
build  up  the  kingdom  of  God. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  continued : 

Tell  the  brethren  if  they  will  follow  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  they  will  go 
right.  Be  sure  to  tell  the  brethren  to  keep  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord ;  and  if 
they  will,  they  will  find  themselves  just  as  they  were  organized  by  our 
Father  in  Heaven  before  they  came  into  the  world.  .  Our  Father  in  Heaven 
organized  the  human  family,  but  they  are  all  disorganized  and  in  great 
confusion. 

Now,  I  skip  a  part  and  close  with  this  statement :  "Joseph  again  said 
to  him,  'Tell  the  people  to  be  sure  to  keep  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  fol- 
low it  and  it  will  lead  them  just  right.'  " 

Brethren,  if  we  are  to  be  led  just  right,  through  these  perilous  times 
in  which  we  live,  we  must  keep  our  minds  open  and  have  the  spirit  of  the 
Lord.  The  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  must  be  operative  in  us.  God  bless 
us  to  this  end,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  am  deeply  grateful  for  the  privilege  of 
bearing  testimony  to  you  in  this  General  Conference. 


142  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Third  Day 

It  has  been  a  source  of  joy  to  me  to  see  how  universally  happy  the 
people  are  in  the  selection  of  Brother  Mark  E.  Petersen  to  work  with  us 
in  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  It  is  going  to  be  a  great  joy  to  me  to  be 
associated  with  him. 

Impressed  By  the  Singing  At  Conference 

This  Conference  has  been  a  most  inspirational  one.  The  spirit  of 
the  Lord  seems  to  have  been  here  in  rich  abundance.  I  have  been  much 
impressed  by  the  singing.  Many  people  who  heard  the  Conference  ses- 
sions over  the  radio  said  to  me  that  the  songs  sounded  as  if  they  came 
from  a  great  trained  male  chorus.  Every  song  seemed  most  appropriate 
and  fit  perfectly  into  the  theme  of  the  Conference  as  it  unfolded.  I  think 
I  have  never  heard  the  song,  "I  Need  Thee  Every  Hour,"  sung  with 
such  power  and  beauty  and  harmony  as  it  Was  sung  in  this  Conference 
by  these  thousands  of  men.  Perhaps  my  appreciation  of  the  song  came 
from  my  feeling  of  need  of  the  hehx-of  the  Lord. 

I  am  not  unmindful  of  the  grave  responsibility  that  is  mine  in  oc- 
cupying this  position,  and  I  earnestly  pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord 
while  I  stand  before  you. 

I  was  impressed  by  the  song  which  you  sang  so  well : 

Zion  stands   with  hills  surrounded, 
Zion  kept  by  power  divine. 
Happy   Zion,   happy  Zion, 
What  a  favored  lot  is  thine! 

And  the  thought  came  to  me:  What  a  favored  lot  is  ours  to  be  able  to 
assemble  in  General  Conference  and  to  bear  testimony  to  each  other,  and 
for  the  other  numerous  blessings  we  enjoy. 

Enjoyment  In  Fellowship 

I  thought  as  I  saw  you  brethren  sitting  in  this  large  group,  what  a 
marvelous  opportunity  for  fellowship  we  have  in  this  Church,  men  from 
all  parts  of  North  America  (and  they  would  be  from  all  parts  of  the 
world,  if  the  war  would  permit).  I  was  wondering  how  many  of  you 
are  acquainted  with  the  brother  on  either  side  of  you.  I  used  to  enjoy 
coming  to  Conference  a  little  early  and  sitting  down  there  with  you, 
reaching  out  my  hand  and  saying :  "I  am  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  from  Saf- 
ford,  Arizona."  Then  my  brethren  on  either  side  would  tell  me  whence 
they  came — from  California,  from  Canada,  from  Oregon,  or  somewhere 
else  in  the  Church.  Then  we  talked  just  a  little  bit  while  we  were  waiting 
for  the  meeting,  about  the  wheat  in  Canada,  or  the  salmon  in  Portland, 
or  the  cotton  raising  in  Arizona,  and  about  our  Church  work,  and  then 
we  did  really  enjoy  the  Conference,  as  we  knew  each  other  and  sat  en- 
joying the  spirit  of  the  Lord  together. 

I  want  to  assure  you  that  on  either  side  of  each  of  you  is  one  of  the 
finest  men  in  this  whole  world,  who  belongs  to  the  greatest  fraternity 
holding  the  holy  Priesthood,  in  a  high  and  responsible  position,  a  man 
that  you  will  want  to  know. 


I 


t 

ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  143 

Among  the  greatest  thrills  of  my  life  are  these  conferences  with  the 
Priesthood  leaders  of  the  Church,  men  tried  and  true,  when  we  gather 
together  in  this  historic  building  in  General  Conference ;  I  am  grateful 
for  this  privilege  of  meeting  with  you.  I  stand  before  you  in  humility, 
and  I  love  you  for  your  faith  and  your  integrity  and  your  devotion  to  the 
work  of  the  Lord. 

Six  months  ago  I  was  first  sustained  by  you  in  this  position  of  re- 
sponsibility ;  it  was  six  months  ago,  day  before  yesterday,  when  I  knelt 
at  the  feet  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  our  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revela- 
tor,  and  his  hands,  together  with  the  hands  of  the  members  of  the  Quorum 
of  the  Twelve  and  the  Patriarch,  were  placed  on  my  head  and  I  was  or- 
dained an  Apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

A  half  year  has  passed,  and  I  have  enjoyed  my  work  immensely. 
I  have  been  from  southern  Arizona  on  the  south,  to  northern  Idaho  on 
the  north,  and  from  Los  Angeles  on  the  west  to  New  York  on  the  east,  and 
everywhere  I  have  gone  I  have  been  accepted  with  courtesy  and  consider- 
ation, and  I  have  learned  to  love  the  people  all  over  the  Church. 

The  Gospel  Solves  Many  Problems 

In  the  past  few  sessions  of  the  Conference  we  have  heard  much  of 
juvenile  and  adult  delinquency.  I  am  sure  that  the  living  of  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  in  our  homes  will  solve  most  of  these  problems.  I  am 
sure  that  if  we  have  prayer  in  our  homes,  around  the  table,  with  our 
families,  and  as  we  retire  for  the  night  that  our  families  will  be  closely 
knit  together,  and  will  grow  in  spirituality.  If  we  shall  have  home 
evenings  and  gather  our  broods  about  us,  we  shall  be  able  to  teach  them 
obedience,  and  discipline.  They  will  come  to  love  the  home  and  the  fam- 
ily, and  will  be  protected  from  many  of  the  vicious  influences  which  are 
increasing  delinquency.  If  we  will  take  them  with  us  to  sacrament  meet- 
ings and  teach  them  their  privileges  and  responsibilities  in  the  Church, 
we  shall  thus  be  able  to  lead  them  into  paths  of  righteousness.  If  we 
can  make  the  home  the  center  of  the  universe  for  our  children  much  of 
the  sin  of  the  world  can  be  by-passed. 

Our  Savior  said :  "If  thou  wilt  enter  into  life,  keep  the  command- 
ments." From  observation  it  seems  to  me  that  one  of  the  commandments 
which  we  wantonly  break  is  that  command  to  observe  the  sacredness  of 
the  Sabbath  day.  We  were  quoted  during  this  Conference  the  word  of 
the  Lord: 

Remember  the  sabbath  day  to  keep  it  holy.  Six  days  shalt  thou  labor, 
and  do  all  thy  work.  But  the  seventh  day  is  the  Sabbath  of  the  Lord  thy 
God ;  in  it  thou  shalt  not  do  any  work,  thou,  nor  thy  son,  nor  thy  daughter, 
thy  manservant,  nor  thy  maidservant,  nor  thy  cattle,  nor  thy  stranger  that 
is  within  thy  gates. 

Sabbath-breaking  Decried 

While  attending  one  of  the  Conferences  last  fall,  one  of  my  first 
down  state,  I  was  housed  in  a  hotel,  and  early  Sunday  morning  I  was 
awakened  by  considerable  noise  in  the  halls  and  the  lobby  of  the  hotel, 


144  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Third  Day 

and  when  I  came  down  I  found  that  the  lobby  and  the  cafe  near  it  were 
filled  with  men  with  colored  shirts  and  caps  and  with  hunting  regalia. 
Their  guns  were  clean  and  shining.  They  were  all  en  route  to  the  moun- 
tains and  the  canyons  to  get  their  deer.  When  the  Conference  day  was 
ended  and  evening  found  us  on  our  way  home,  many  were  the  cars  that 
we  passed  with  a  deer  on  the  running  board  or  on  the  bumper. 

Another  Sabbath  I  drove  through  an  agricultural  area,  and  was  dis- 
tressed to  find  there  were  mowing  machines  and  balers  and  perspiring 
men  engaged  in  harvesting  the  crops. 

Still  another  Sabbath  I  drove  through  Main  Street  of  one  of  our 
larger  towns,  and  I  was  dismayed  to  find  lines  of  people  standing  and 
waiting  their  turns  to  get  into  the  picture  shows. 

Still  another  time  when  large  numbers  of  people  with  hiking  breeches 
and  slacks  were  driving  to  mountain  retreats  with  picnic  lunches  to  enjoy 
the  beauteous  Sabbath  in  the  canyons. 

And  the  word  of  the  Lord  continued  to  resound  in  my  consciousness : 
"In  the  days  of  their  peace  they  esteemed  lightly  my  counsel ;  but  in  the 
day  of  their  trouble,  of  necessity  they  feel  after  me." 

I  wondered  if  we  must  be  brought  low  with  adversity  before  we  will 
serve  the  Lord. 

There  came  ringing  again  in  my  ears  the  solemn  command  brought 
down  from  the  thundering  of  Mount  Sinai :  "Remember  the  Sabbath  day, 
to  keep  it  holy."  So  far  as  I  know,  that  commandment  has  never  been 
rescinded  nor  modified.  To  hunt  and  fish  on  the  Lord's  day  is  not  keep- 
ing it  holy.  To  plant  or  cultivate  or  harvest  crops  on  the  Sabbath  is  not 
keeping  holy  the  Lord's  day.  To  go  into  the  canyons  for  picnics,  to  attend 
games  or  rodeos,  or  races  or  shows,  or  other  amusements  on  that  day  is 
not  to  keep  it  in  holy  remembrance. 

Our  Savior  said : 

Whosoever  therefore  shall  break  one  of  these  least  commandments, 
and  shall  teach  men  so,  he  shall  be  called  the  least  in  the  kingdom  of  heav- 
en. (Matt.  5:19.) 

Strange  as  it  may  seem,  some  of  our  brethren,  faithful  in  all  other 
respects,  seem  to  justify  themselves  in  missing  their  sacrament  meetings, 
and  their  stake  conferences,  in  order  to  beat  all  the  other  hunters  into 
the  wild  life  area  when  the  season  opens.  The  Church  favors  legitimate 
recreation,  and  urges  its  people  to  organize  picnic  parties  and  to  enjoy 
the  great  outdoors  for  the  fellowship  that  it  offers,  but  with  six  other 
days  in  the  week,  the  Sabbath  certainly  need  not  be  desecrated. 

Good  clean  plays  and  pictures  are  certainly  not  objectionable,  but  on 
the  other  hand  they  add  to  our  education  and  to  our  entertainment  in  a 
wholesome  way,  but  certainly  our  people  can  ill  afford  to  spend  funds 
and  time  to  go  to  more  of  such  activities  than  can  be  attended  on  the 
other  six  days  of  the  week. 

The  Word  of  the  Lord 

There  is  a  time  and  a  place  for  all  worth-while  things.  Are  we  giving 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  145 

( 

up  and  making  a  sacrifice?  Is  it  self-denial?  I  think  it  isn't  so  much  a 
matter  of  giving  up  things ;  it  is  a  matter  of  shifting  times  and  choosing 
seasons. 

The  word  of  the  Lord  is  very  definite  and  final,  and  comes  with 
tremendous  force  when  He  says : 

And  that  thou  mayest  more  fully  keep  thyself  unspotted  from  the 
world,  thou  shalt  go  to  the  house  of  prayer  and  offer  up  thy  sacraments 
upon  my  holy  day.  (D.  &  C.  59:9.) 

This  is  a  day  when  our  every  lapse  is  blamed  on  the  war.  Perhaps 
there  are  times  and  conditions  when  we  must  work  seven  days  of  the 
week,  when  industry  or  the  exigencies  of  war  require  it,  but  are  we  sure 
that  we  do  not  sometimes  work  on  the  Sabbath  when  not  necessary,  for 
the  "time  and  a  half"  that  is  given,  for  the  additional  funds  it  provides? 

Remember  the  Lord  said:  "Six  days  shalt  thou  labor  and  do  all 
thy  work :  but  the  seventh  day  is  the  Sabbath  of  the  Lord  thy  God ;  in  it 
thou  shalt  not  do  any  work."  You  note  here  the  command  is  two-fold; 
it  is  definite  that  you  shall  labor  the  six  days — no  place  here  for  the  idler 
or  for  loitering  on  the  job  or  for  absenteeism.  And  equally  strong  is 
the  command  that  on  the  Sabbath  "thou  shalt  not  do  any  work."  Even 
in  modern  times  the  command  has  come  again  through  a  modern  prophet : 

And  on  this  day  thou  shalt  do  none  other  thing,  only  let  thy  food  be 
prepared  with  singleness  of  heart.  (D.  &  C.  59:13.) 

It  is  not  enough  to  refrain  from  doing  the  things  which  would  keep 
the  day  from  being  kept  holy,  but  there  are  some  very  definite  things  that 
we  should  do  to  honor  the  Sabbath.  We^re  required  to  go  to  the  house 
of  prayer,  we  are  to  offer  up  our  sacraments  unto  the  Most  High ;  we 
are  to  fast  and  pray  at  the  proper  times ;  and  we  are  to  stand  in  holy 
places ;  we  are  to  rest  and  to  worship. 

By  resting  is  not  meant  the  indolent  lounging  about  the  home  all  day 
or  puttering  around  in  the  garden,  but  a  consistent  attendance  at  meet- 
ings for  the  worship  of  the  Lord,  drinking  at  the  fountain  of  knowledge 
and  instruction,  enjoying  the  family  and  finding  uplift  in  music  and  song. 
One  good  but  mistaken  man  I  knew  claimed  that  he  could  get  much  more 
out  of  a  good  book  on  Sunday  than  he  could  get  in  attending  a  sacrament 
meeting,  saying  that  the  sermons  were  hardly  up  to  his  standards. 

But  I  say  we  do  not  go  to  Sabbath  meetings  to  be  entertained  or 
amused ;  we  go  there  to  worship  the  Lord.  It  is  an  individual  responsi- 
bility, and  regardless  of  what  is  said  from  the  pulpit,  if  one  wishes  to 
worship  the  Lord  in  spirit  and  in  truth,  he  may  do  so  by  attending  his 
meetings,  partaking  of  the  sacrament,  and  contemplating  the  beauties  of 
the  Gospel.  If  the  sacrament  meeting  is  a  failure  to  you,  you  are  the  one 
that  has  failed.  No  one  can  worship  for  you,  you  must  do  your  own 
serving  of  the  Lord. 

Week-day  Sports  and  Picnics  To  Be  Encouraged 
Now  that  spring  is  here  and  summer  will  soon  follow,  our  presiding' 


146  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

brethren  throughout  the  Church  might  anticipate  the  problems  of 
Sabbath  desecration  and  encourage  a  program  of  substitution. 

Encouragement  could  be  given  to  week-day  sports  and  picnics  and 
shows,  and  the  brethren  could  be  urged  to  plan  their  hunting  and  fishing 
trips  during  the  week  days,  avoiding  the  Sabbath,  instead  of  including 
it  in  their  itinerary. 

A  seminary  group  once  planned  a  service  in  the  tops  of  the  moun- 
tains, and  they  felt  wholly  justified  for  the  excursion  since  they  had 
planned  a  testimony  meeting  to  be  held  as  a  part  of  it.  They  did  have 
their  meeting  and  a  spiritual  hour  was  enjoyed,  but  after  the  hour,  the 
picnic  was  eaten,  the  young  people  in  their  rough  mountain  clothes  and 
slacks  hiked  and  climbed,  and  turned  the  balance  of  the  day  into  one  of 
the  usual  fun  and  frolic.  Certainly,  it  was  not  a  holy  day,  the  one  hour 
of  devotion  did  not  keep  it  from  becoming  a  holiday. 

A  Scout  council  was  wont  to  arrange  their  summer  camp  so  that 
the  Scouts  were  moving  to  the  camp  on  one  Sabbath  and  from  it  on  the 
next.  Our  Latter-day  Saint  boys  were  deprived  of  their  Priesthood  ac- 
tivities for  two  Sundays,  and  still  were  getting  no  scouting  on  those  days. 
A  friendly  suggestion  to  the  council  authorities  brought  about  a  change, 
so  that  the  camp  period  ran  from  week  day  to  week  day,  and  the  one  Sun- 
day in  between  was  devoted  to  a  spiritual  service  for  the  boys  who  were 
in  the  camp. 

•  Much  can  be  done  to  substitute  week-day  activities  for  Sunday  ones. 
Great  good  can  be  done  by  an  educational  program  anticipating  and  pre- 
ceding the  period  of  likely  breaking  of  the  Sabbath. 

Let  us  follow  the  Prophet  Joshua — it  is  one  of  my  favorite  passages 
of  scripture — he  said : 

Now  therefore  fear  the  Lord,  and  serve  him  in  sincerity  and  in  truth 
.  . .  choose  you  this  day  whom  ye  will  serve  .  .  .  but  as  for  me  and  my  house, 
we  will  serve  the  Lord.  (Joshua  24:14,  IS.) 

That  we  may  live  the  commandments  of  God  and  teach  men  so,  that 
we  may  pay  our  devotion  to  the  Most  High  and  keep  the  Sabbath  day 
holy,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

I  am  very  happy  to  say  to  the  audience  on  the  air  that  we  are  again 
blessed  with  the  presence  of  President  Grant,  who  is  here  with  us  and 
enjoying  our  Conference. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  Say,  What  Is  Truth?" — 
Words  by  John  Jaques,  Music  by  Ellen  Knowles  Melling  (L.D.S. 
Hymns  No.  191). 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


147 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren :  I  pray  for  the  good  spirit  spoken  about  by  Elder  Rom- 
ney.  It  is  a  great  privilege  and  a  blessing,  and  certainly  a  great  inspira- 
tion, to  be  in  attendance  at  a  session  of  the  Conference.  This  oppor- 
tunity is  becoming  increasingly  more  precious. 

I  rejoice  in  the  fact  that  the  messages  of  this  Conference  have  gone 
out  to  the  nation,  and  have  reached  the  homes  and  the  firesides  of  the 
families  in  this  Intermountain  region.  The  reports  given  and  the  re- 
marks made  indicate  that  the  Church  moves  on.  It  is  solid,  sound,  and 
progressive.  It  will  continue  to  move  on,  and  go  forward  to  meet  the 
demands  and  the  requirements  made  upon  it. 

The  coming  forth  of  Mormonism  is  the  greatest  event  of  modern 
times,  and  it  will  be  so  regarded  in  the  future  by  the  unprejudiced  writers 
of  history.  It  has  survived  every  storm  of  opposition ;  it  has  never  gone 
backwards ;  it  has  never  retreated  from  its  high  aims  and  purposes. 

We  have  been  urged  by  previous  supeakers  to  adhere  to  funda- 
mentals. Such  admonition,  it  seems  to  me,  is  timely  in  a  day  of  war  and 
upheaval.  It  is  so  easy  for  a  people  to  side-step  fundamentals.  This  is 
especially  true  in  times  of  stress  when  they  become  impatient  and  lose 
their  powers  of  endurance.  What  could  be  more  fundamental  than  the 
doctrine  of  the  resurrection,  discussed  with  such  force  and  eloquence 
this  morning?  What  could  be  more  fundamental  than  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments mentioned  by  President  George  Albert  Smith,  and  by  Elder 
Spencer  W.  Kimball  this  afternoon?  The  violation  of  these  command- 
ments has  brought  destruction  and  sorrow,  not  only  to  men,  but  nations. 
What  could  be  more  practical  and  fundamental  than  the  Sermon  on  the 
Mount,  quoted  in  part  by  President  McKay  the  other  evening  ? 

Judge  not,  that  ye  be  not  judged. 

For  with  what  judgment  ye  judge,  ye  shall  be  judged:  and  with  what 
measure  ye  mete,  it  shall  be  measured  to  you  again.  (Matt.  7:1,  2.)  ( 

It  is  a  sound  doctrine,  brethren ;  it  is  fair  and  just. 

What  could  be  more  basic  to  human  welfare  than  Joseph  Smith's 
declaration,  in  the  Articles  of  Faith,  that  men  will  be  punished  for  their 
own  sins  and  not  for  Adam's  transgression.  It  places  upon  men  the 
responsibility  for  their  soul's  salvation.  Such  a  teaching  is  productive 
of  good  works,  and  conducive  to  right  living.  The  responsibility  resting 
upon  the  Church  has  never  been  greater.  It  rests  heavily  upon  the  min- 
istry of  the  Church.  It  calls  for  a  great  service,  an  unswerving  devo- 
tion, and  a  supreme  faith. 

The  wayward  and  the  careless  must  be  warned  and  admonished  in 
the  spirit  of  kindness  and  brotherly  love.  Some  of  them  are  our  neigh- 
bors and  friends.  Our  love  for  them  demands  that  they  be  brought  back 
into  the  fold  of  Christ.  Their  faith  must  be  revived,  nourished  and 
strengthened. 

Without  that  simple,  trusting  and  abiding  faith,  characteristic  of  a 


148  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

true  Saint,  no  one  can  know  God  or  comprehend  the  Gospel ;  and  there 
is  no  substitute  for  the  Gospel.  All  the  theories,  sophistries,  and  plans 
of  men  devised  to  the  contrary  have  failed,  and  will  continue  to  fail. 

Present  Conditions  Deplored 

As  a  result  the  world  stands  today  on  the  brink  of  despair  and  de- 
struction. Characteristic  of  our  day  and  time  is  the  weakening  of  the 
moral  fiber  of  men  and  women,  referred  to  many  times  by  the  speakers : 
a  departure  from  long  and  well-established  standards  of  conduct,  a  dis- 
regard for  the  old-fashioned  virtues,  despite  the  fact  that  they  are  sacred 
and  binding  upon  humanity,  and  have  been  itemized  and  set  up  by  holy 
prophets  for  the  guidance  of  God's  children. 

There  has  been  a  breaking  away  from  Church  and  religion ;  skepti- 
cism, unbelief,  and  fidelity  have  become  the  boast  of  the  learned  and 
the  sophisticated.  What  does  it  mean,  my  brethren  ?  Does  it  mean  that 
the  pillars  of  civilization  are  crumbling? 

I  read  recently  a  book  written  by  Dr.  Frank  Munk  called  The 
Legacy  of  Naziism.  In  it  he  makes  this  statement,  which  is  the  conclud- 
ing paragraph  in  the  book : 

A  world  is  adrift— Europe  has  completely  lost  its  moorings.  Eco- 
nomically, socially,  spiritually,  only  the  grass-root  things  remain.  We 
must  begin  anew.  A  new  civilization  is  being  born  in  blood  and  unspeak- 
able suffering.  Ultimate  and  eternal  values  alone  will  survive  the  carnage. 

He  concludes  his  book  by  quoting  a  verse  from'the  famous  speech 
of  Paul  to  the  Athenians  when  he  said : 

He  giveth  to  all  life,  and  breath,  and  all  things.  And  has  made  of  one 
blood  all  nations  of  men  for  to  dwell  on  all  the  earth. 

\ 

In  his  book  he  also  speaks  of  a  chance,  with  the  inference  that  it  is 
to  be  a  slight  chance,  that  the  accumulations  of  centuries  in  art,  literature, 
culture,  and  in  human  progress  can  be  saved. 

"Things  are  not  altogether  well  with  us,"  said  the  Archbishop  of 
Canterbury  recently,  when  speaking  to  the  British  nation.  "The  decline 
in  honesty  has  been  very  sharp  and  steep,"  he  said,  "and  our  standard 
of  conduct  in  matters  of  sex  is  very  lax.  These  things,"  he  points  out, 
"will  bring  terrible  consequences,  if  we  will  not  change  our  outlook,  or 
in  the  old  phrase,  repent."  Old  England  with  its  culture,  with  its  power 
and  wealth,  mighty  in  achievement,  along  with  an  unparalleled  history, 
like  other  nations,  must  repent  or  perish. 

A  short  time  ago  I  read  a  book  written  by  Beverly  Nichols,  in  which 
he  discussed  organized  vice,  the  curse  of  drink  and  the  widespread  out- 
break of  criminality  in  England  and  America.  The  author  said:  "The 
facts  as  I  have  stated  them  are  true,  and  the  reason  they  are  true  is- 
because  the  parents  in  question  have  failed  most  criminally  to  set  before 
their  children  the  picture  of  Christ."  He  then  calls  attention  to  the  fact 
that  once  that  picture  hung  on  the  wall,  but  the  repercussions  of  war  blew 
it  off. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


149 


"The  time  has  come,"  he  concluded,  "to  hang  that  picture  once  more 
on  the  wall,  to  see  if  we  can  learn  any  message  from  the  eternal  eyes." 
Surely  a  great  inspiration  will  come  from  a  picture  so  beautiful. and  so 
stainless.  There  is  nothing  left,  my  brethren,  to  direct  and  sustain  hu- 
manity except  the  perfect  life  of  Jesus,  His  Gospel  of  peace  and  love, 
and  his  matchless  and  powerful  leadership. 

I  quote  in  closing  the  words  of  scripture  from  the  book  of  Revela- 
tion: 

Fear  God,  and  give  glory  to  him ;  for  the  hour  of  his  judgment  is 
come :  and  worship  him  that  made  heaven,  and  earth,  and  the  sea,  and  the 
fountains  of  waters. 

May  we  do  so,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Brethren,  and  radio  listeners :  And  I  am  very  glad  to  be  able  to  say 
"Radio  listeners,"  for  of  all  the  Conferences  I  have  attended  during  my 
life — and  they  began  when  I  was  ten  years  of  age — I  have  attended  none 
that  I  have  enjoyed  to  a  greater  degree  than  I  have  this  one,  up  to  the 
present  moment  of  time. 

It  is  my  wish,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  speak  for  a  few  minutes  on 
and  call  attention,  to  some  of  our  fundamental  principles  and  their  ap- 
plication to  our  daily  lives.  In  doing  this  I  desire  to  speak  truthfully, 
wisely,  and  helpfully. 

Man  Inherits  Attributes  of  God  His  Father 

"We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  His  Son,  Jesus 
Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost" — three  separate,  distinct  persons,  who  are 
united  as  one  in  purpose  and  attunement.  Since  in  the  world  of  life,  like 
begets  like,  it  must  follow  that  in  bodily  form  we  are  like  our  Father  in 
heaven.  Hence,  it  cannot  be  true  that  we  are  brutes  or  descendants  of 
beasts;  we  are  of  the  race  of  the  Gods.  It  therefore  follows  that  man 
did  not,  as  the  atheist  asserts,  create  God  in  his  own  image.  As  a  spirit 
child  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  man  not  only  inherited  His  divine  form, 
but  also  the  divine  attributes,  even  though  it  may  be  in  minute  quantities 
only. 

Among  these  are  intelligence,  will-power,  thinking-power,  love,  char- 
ity, mercy,  patience,  sense  of  justice,  fairness,  and  right,  etc.  We  be- 
lieve in  the  wonderful  doctrine  of  eternal  progression,  in  accordance  with 
which  these  inherited  attributes  and  powers  may  be  enlarged  through  ef- 
fort and  righteous  living,  until  ultimately  they  may  reach,  in  the  here- 
after, God-like  proportions. 

Is  such  a  doctrine  true,  or  is  it  fanciful,  based  upon  eternal  truth  ? 
In  accordance  with  this  belief,  life  in  mortality  has  a  purpose.  We  know 
the  doctrine  is  true. 


150  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Third  Dag 

It  is  fitting  here  to  mention  another  divine  gift  to  all  born  into  mor- 
tality— that  of  free  agency. 

Know  this,  that  every  soul  is  free 
To  choose  his  life  and  what  he'll  be, 
For  this  eternal  truth  is  given, 
That  God  will  force  no  man  to  heaven. 

He'll  call,  persuade,  direct  aright, 
And  bless  with  wisdom,  love  and  light, 
In  nameless  ways  be  good  and  kind, 
But  never  force  the  human  mind. 

Faith  A  Necessary  Guide 

To  achieve  fully  the  purpose  of  mortal  life,  man  must  pursue  the 
way  of  life  which  the  Lord  Himself  has  given,  but  the  Lord  will  force 
no  man  to  do  this.  As  a  result  but  relatively  few  mortal  men  make  earn- 
est attempts  to  follow  the  Lord's  way  of  life.  Why  ?  There  are  many 
reasons,  one  of  which  is  the  lack  of  sufficient  faith  in  the  existence  of  a 
living  personal  God,  who  is  really  our  Father  in  heaven,  and  functions  as 
a  loving,  merciful,  though  just  God. 

We,  that  is  multitudes  of  Latter-day  Saints,  not  only  believe  that 
God  lives,  but  we  testify  that  we  know  He  lives,  and  in  doing  so,  we  are 
in  accord  with  Biblical  teachings.  We  are  reminded  that  on  one  occasion, 
Jesus,  receiving  various  answers  from  His  disciples  to  His  questions, 
turned  to  Peter  and  asked :  "Whom  say  ye  that  I  am  ?"  The  ready  an- 
swer was:  "Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  son  of  the  living  God."  Then  the 
Master  replied :  "Blessed  art  thou,  Simon  Barjona,  for  flesh  and  blood 
hath  not  revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven."  (Matt. 
16:15-17.) 

On  another  occasion  He  said :  "My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his  that 
sent  me.  If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine, 
whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself."  (John  7:16,  17.) 

And  the  apostle  James,  in  harmony  with  the  teachings  of  the  Master, 
wrote :  "If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  who  giveth  to 
all  men  liberally,  and  upbraideth  not ;  and  it  shall  be  given  him."  But 
there  was  a  condition  named — "But  let  him  ask  in  faith,  nothing  waver- 
ing. For  he  that  wavereth  is  like  a  wave  of  the  sea  driven  with  the  wind 
and  tossed.  For  let  not  that  man  think  he  shall  receive  any  thing  of  the 
Lord."  (James  1:5-7.) 

So  this  afternoon  we  have  heard  Brother  Romney  speak  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  and  of  how  we  may  know,  if  we  fulfill  the  conditions  that 
the  prophet  Moroni  names  in  the  last  chapter  in  the  book,  of  the  genuine- 
ness of  that  book  through  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  It  is  through 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  that  we  are  able  to  testify  that  we  do  know. 
It  is  not  a  matter  of  belief  only,  it  is  a  matter  of  assurance  that  comes  to 
us,  enabling  us  to  say  as  certainly  as  we  live  that  we  do  know. 

Brethren,  and  radio  listeners,  I  myself  can  testify  likewise  that  I 
know.   But  how  do  I  know  ? 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.MERRILL    ...  :  151 
A  Personal  Experience  In  Answer  To  Prayer 

Now,  may  I  say  that  I  am  too  old,  perhaps,  to  be  too  diffident  to 
relate  a  little  experience,  and  I  believe  that  experiences  are  helpful.  I 
shall  here  relate  one. 

Family  prayer  has  been  spoken  of  during  these  sessions  by  more  than 
one  of  the  speakers.  I  was  reared  in  a  family  where  prayer,  night  and 
morning  was  always  the  order.  I  have  seen  my  father  sometimes  too 
busy  to  stop  to  eat  his  breakfast,  but  never  too  busy  to  kneel  with  his  fam- 
ily in  prayer  before  he  left,  to  thank  the  Lord  for  the  prospects  of  the 
day,  for  the  rest  of  the  night,  and  to  ask  his  direction  and  help  in  the 
labors  of  the  day.  I  was  taught  to  pray  at  my  mother's  knee,  and  when 
I  could  say  my  own  little  prayers,  I  was  taught  that  it  was  my  prayer ;  it 
should  be  said  in  secret,  or  at  least  to  myself. 

So  I  knelt  on  one  side  of  the  bed,  brother  on  the  other  side,  every 
night.  He  never  knew  what  I  prayed  for ;  certainly  I  did  not  know  what 
he  prayed  for.  But  when  I  was  'about  ten  years  of  age,  I  began  to  pray 
for  a  special  blessing.  But  I  did  not  get  an  answer.  Why  ?  Father  had 
taught  us  that  there  are  three  factors  that  must  characterize  every  prayer 
that  the  Lord  will  answer :  We  must  pray  for  real  needs — and  even 
grown-ups,  he  said,  sometimes  ask  the  Lord  for  things  they  do  not  get,, 
because  they  ask  foolishly — we  must  pray  worthily,  and  we  must  pray 
with  faith. 

In  answer  to  my  first  prayer,  no  answer  came.  The  faith  was  there, 
I  felt,  to  the  extent  that  I  could  exert  it.  The  need  was  there,  I  felt  cer- 
tainly no  doubt  about  that,  but  was  the  worthiness  ?  I  could  always  think 
of  something,  as  I  prayed  night  after  night  without  an  answer,  that  I  had 
done  that  I  should  not  have  done,  and  so  I  continued  to  pray,  feeling  that 
when  I  could  make  myself  worthy  of  an  answer,  I  would  get  it. 

It  was  after  I  had  been  praying  nightly  for  five  years  that  the  whole 
family  went,  one  Wednesday  evening,  in  the  month  of  February,  into* 
town  and  attended  a  Sunday  School  entertainment.  My  class  rendered' 
its  number,  followed  by  another  that  sang,  and  I  remember  some  of  the 
words  of  that  song :  "Keep  on  asking,  God  will  answer  by  and  by."  To 
me  that  was  a  revelation.    I  kept  on  praying. 

Some  four  years  later,  in  the  latter  part  of  the  month  of  August, 
1887,  in  my  nineteenth  year,  after  I  had  been  praying  nightly  for  nine 
long  years  with  all  the  earnestness  of  my  soul  for  this  special  blessing, 
I  was  alonj  in  the  bedroom,  and  I  said,  half  aloud,  "O  Father,  wilt  thou 
not  hear  me  ?"   I  was  beginning  to  get  discouraged. 

Then,  brethren,  something  happened.  The  most  glorious  experi- 
ence that  I  have  received,  came.  In  answer  to  my  question  I  heard  as 
distinctly  as  anything  I  ever  heard  in  my  life  the  short,  simple  word: 
"Yes."  Simultaneously  my  whole  being,  from  the  crown  of  my  head  to 
the  soles  of  my  feet,  was  filled  with  the  most  joyous  feeling  of  elation,  of 
peace  and  certainty  that  I  could  imagine  a  human  being  could  experience. 


152  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

I  sprang  from  my  knees,  and  jumped  as  high  as  I  could,  and  shouted : 
"O  Father,  I  thank  thee."   At  last  an  answer  had  come.  I  knew  it. 

Why  did  it  not  come  before  ?  I  have  thanked  the  Lord  many  times 
since  that  He  withheld  the  answer.  A  few  days  after  that,  father  said 
to  me :  "Would  you  like  to  go  to  Salt  Lake  City  and  attend  the  Uni- 
versity of  Deseret  ?" — a  secret  wish  of  which  I  had  said  nothing.  I  had 
finished,  the  spring  before,  what  is  equivalent  in  this  day  to  a  junior  high 
school  course,  nothing  more  in  the  town.  I  wanted  to  go  on  and  now  I 
could.  And  as  it  turned  out,  after  graduating  at  the  University  of  Des- 
eret, I  went  east  and  completed  nine  years  of  work  in  the  field  of  science 
in  four  of  America's  leading  universities. 

Had  I  gone  without  an  answer  to  my  prayers  at  that  critical  mo- 
ment in  my  life  I  might  have  forgotten  to  pray.  But  I  think  that  I  am 
here  today — I  think  that  I  have  been  preserved  in  the  Church,  perhaps, 
because  the  answer  to  my  prayer  came  at  that  critical  moment,  since  which 
time  never  has  a  day  passed  that  I  have  forgotten  to  pray.  And  as  long 
as  memory  lasts  I  cannot  forget  the  thrilling  experience  of  that  night. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  answer  to  my  prayer  was  a  revela- 
tion. What  did  I  want  to  know?  I  had  learned  that  Joseph  Smith,  a 
fourteen-year-old  boy,  went  into  the  woods  to  pray.  Fulfilling  the  con- 
ditions necessary  to  get  an  answer,  he  had  received  the  most  glorious  vis- 
ion that  records  give  us  any  knowledge  of.  He  knew  that  God  lives ;  he 
saw  Him ;  he  heard  him.  He  knew  that  Christ,  whose  resurrection  the 
Christian  world  celebrates  today,  also  lives.  He  saw  the  Christ,  his  Re- 
deemer ;  he  heard  His  voice.    There  was  certainty  in  his  soul. 

I  wanted  to  know,  too,  of  my  own  self  whether  God  lives.  I  believed 
He  would  give  me  a  testimony.  I  have  had  many  testimonies  since. 
Brethren,  I  do  know. 

Responsibility  Follows  A  Testimony 

■ 

Now,  brethren,  all  of  you  who  are  here,  doubtless  could  relate  experi- 
ences similar  to  what  I  have  related.  You  know,  all  of  you.  You  are  the 
key  men  in  the  Church  of  God.  You  come  from  all  over  America,  you 
are  the  leaders.  Every  one  of  you  knows,  and  you  can  testify.  That  is 
one  characteristic  of  the  membership  of  this  Church — we  know  we  know ! 
And  therein  lies  the  strength  of  the  Church. 

But  because  we  know,  brethren,  we  are  bound.  There  are  obliga- 
tions imposed  by  our  certain  knowledge  that  we  cannot  logically  escape. 
Obligations  to  do  what  ?  Keep  the  Lord's  commandments  is  the  answer. 
We  have  heard  it  said  in  this  conference  of  the  leadership  in  the  Church 
that  the  Lord's  way  of  life,  if  followed  by  the  people,  will  bring  peace 
to  the  earth.  Wars  will  cease,  and  contention  will  end ;  but  when  are  we 
willing  to  follow  the  Lord's  way  of  life  ?  Until  we  do,  we  shall  not  have 
peace ;  because  the  evil  one  is  here,  and  he  has  under  his  power  the  great 
majority  of  our  Father's  children,  and  through  the  exercise  of  that  power 
he  is  leading  them  away. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL  15r 


We  have  heard  about  some  of  the  delinquencies  of  youth;  and  we 
have  also  heard  it  stated  here,  a  correct  statement,  that  youth  is  delinquent, 
boys  and  girls  are  delinquent,  because  grown-ups  are  delinquent.  Boys 
and  girls  see  what  their  elders  do,  and  naturally  they  follow  in  their  foot- 
steps. We  have  heard  references,  here,  in  this  session,  to  the  violation 
of  the  sanctity  of  the  Sabbath  day.  What  must  we  do  in  these  modern 
times  to  keep  holy  the  Sabbath  day  ?  The  law  of  the  Sabbath  was  given 
to  ancient  Israel,  when  conditions  were  vastly  different.  What  does  it 
mean  to  keep  holy  the  Sabbath  day  in  our  times  ?  Well,  we  may  not  only 
read  the  answer  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  but  a  century  later  than 
this  revelation  we  may  also  read  a  signed  statement  by  the  presidency  of 
this  Church  in  the  editorial  columns  of  The  Deseret  News  of  a  few  years 
ago  what  it  means  to  keep  holy  the  Sabbath  day  in  our  times.  We  grant 
to  the  First  Presidency  the  right  and  duty  to  interpret  our  doctrines  and 
indicate  what  our  practices  should  be  in  harmony  with  them.  According 
to  that  declaration,  we  may  not  go  to  movies,  or  any  other  kind  of  com- 
mercial entertainments  on  Sunday ;  we  may  not  go  hunting,  we  may  not 
go  fishing,  we  may  not  do  multitudes  of  things  that  even  our  people  do. 
And  why  do  they  do  them  ?  Let  each  individual  ask  himself  that  ques- 
tion. 

How  can  one  who  knows  that  God  lives  and  can  testify  that  he  knows, 
think  of  getting  his  gun  and  hunting  trappings  and  go  put  on  the  Sabbath 
day  into  the  mountains  to  hunt  deer,  or  out  into  the  fields  to  shoot  pheas- 
ants ?  How  can  he  think  of  getting  the  fishing  tackle  ready  and  go  out 
onto  the  streams  and  spend  the  day  of  the  Lord  in  fishing  and  in  pleasure? 

Well,  we  do  many  things,  brethren,  violative  of  divine  command- 
ments. Why  do  we  do  them  ?  In  the  light  of  our  testimony  we  cannot 
do  them  guiltlessly,  can  we  ?  Are  we  not  obligated  by  those  testimonies 
to  live  the  Lord's  way  of  life?  What  shall  we  do? 

Love  the  Lord  our  God  with  all  our  might,  mind,  and  strength.  But 
can  we  do  this  really  without  striving  to  the  extent  of  the  will  power  that 
the  Lord  has  given  to  us  to  keep  His  commandments? 

And  the  second  great  commandment  is  like  unto  the  first :  we  must 
love  our  neighbors  as  ourselves ;  which,  as  we  know,  rightly  interpreted 
means  our  fellow  men.  But  if  we  are  going  to  love  our  neighbors  as  our- 
selves, we  must  treat  our  neighbors  as  we  would  like  to  be  treated  were 
the  circumstances  reversed.  In  other  words,  we  must  live  the  Golden 
Rule.  And  until  men  are  willing  to  live  the  Golden  Rule  far  more  com- 
pletely than  they  are  living  now,  we  shall  not  have  peace  in  our  nation  or 
in  the  world. 

Yet  we  talk  of  winning  peace  after  we  have  won  this  global  war.  We 
won  the  first  World  War,  but  we  did  not  win  the  peace,  it  is  said.  We 
may  win  the  second  World  War,  but  we  will  win  the  peace  only  when 
we  are  willing  at  least  measurably,  to  live  the  Lord's  way  of  life.  The 
Lord  help  us  that  we  may  be  able  to  do  that,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


i 


154  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Third  Day 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

On  the  advice  of  their  physicians,  we  have  not  asked  President  S.  O. 
Bennion  of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  nor  Bishop  Marvin  O.  Ash- 
ton  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  to  speak  at  this  Conference.  We  have 
been  happy  to  have  them  with  us  at  nearly  all  the  sessions.  Word  from 
the  hospital  tells  us  that  President  Rufus  K.  Hardy  of  the  First  Council 
of  the  Seventy  is  much  improved,  for  which  we  give  thanks  to  the  Lord. 

We  shall  ask  President  David  O.  McKay  of  the  First  Presidency 
to  speak  to  us  for  a  few  moments  at  the  close  of  this  Conference. 

PRESIDENT  riAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

At  the  conclusion  of  this  Conference  I  think  it  is  fitting,  first, 
to  express  appreciation  of  the  services  rendered  by  our  wives,  mothers 
and  sisters,  who  have  remained  at  home  to  take  care  of  household  duties, 
and  to  carry  on  other  responsibilities  of  farms  and  businesses  while  we 
have  been  here  receiving  instructions  regarding  our  spiritual  work. 

I  speak  for  myself  when  I  say  that  too  seldom  we  stop  to  tell  our 
wives  how  much  we  think  of  their  help  and  support.  We  feel  it,  but  in 
the  busy  work-a-day  life,  we  do  not  stop  to  say  how  much  we  love  them. 
We  can  now,  here  in  Priesthood  meeting  assembled,  speak  to  those  who 
are  listening  at  least,  and  tell  them  we  are  not  unmindful  of  their  inspira- 
tion and  help. 

I  hope  each  one  of  them  deserves  the  tribute  paid  to  his  wife  by  a 
Scotchman  who,  in  a  dilatory  way,  had  waited  until  she  was  gone  before 
he  expressed  just  how  much  he  appreciated  her.  His  tribute  lies  more 
in  the  implication  than  in  the  expression:  "She  was  .  .  .  Words  cannot 
tell  what  she  was — Think  what  a  good  wife  should  be.  She  was  that." 
No  matter  what  virtues  or  how  many  you  might  apply  to  womanhood,  you 
would  be  but  enumerating  the  virtues  of  his  wife. 

We  owe  much  to  our  wives — 

Helping  and  loving  and  guiding, 
Urging  when  that  were  best, 
Watching  and  guarding,  whispering  still, 
Win  you  can — and  you  must,  you  will ! 

God  bless  them,  keep  them  strong  in  the  faith,  and  give  them  power 
to  train  our  children  in  the  ways  of  righteousness ;  for,  after  all,  "the 
mother  makes  us  most." 

Brethren,  we  have  listened  to  many  glorious  instructions.  It  is  now 
for  us  to  remember  that  better  than  to  know  what  is  good  to  do,  is  to  do  it. 
Shakespeare  says: 

I  can  easier  teach  twenty  what  were  good  to  be  done  than  to  be  one  of 
the  twenty  to  follow  mine  own  teaching. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  MCKAY  155 

Parable  of  the  Sower 

With  the  idea  of  application  in  mind,  it  is  well  to  remember  the  par- 
able of  the  sower.  Some  seeds,  Jesus  tells  us,  fell  by  the  wayside,  and 
were  trampled  under  foot  or  devoured  by  fowls.  Other  seeds  fell  on 
the  rock,  sprang  up,  but,  having  no  root,  died.  Other  seeds  fell  among 
thorns  and  thistles,  which  choked  out  the  seed.  But  some  seeds  fell  on 
good  soil  and  brought  forth  an  hundred  fold. 

The  disciples  asked  the  Savior  what  he  meant  by  that  parable,  and 
that  is  one  that  Jesus  explained,  saying :  The  seed  is  the  word  of  God. 
Those  by  the  wayside  are  those  that  hear,  but  then  Satan  comes  along 
and  deceives  and  misleads  them.  They  on  the  rock  are  persons  who  re-» 
ceive  the  word  gladly,  but  who  have  no  root,  and  when  temptation  comes, 
fall  away.  The  seed  that  fell  among  thorns  and  thistles  is  the  seed  that 
falls  in  the  hearts  of  men,  who,  when  they  have  heard,  permit  it  to  be 
choked  by  the  cares,  and  the  riches  and  pleasures  of  life. 

But  the  seed  that  fell  in  good  soil  was  the  seed  that  fell  in  honest  and 
good  hearts  who,  having  heard  the  word,  keep  it  and  bring  forth  fruit 
with  patience. 

We  trust  those  who  have  been  assembled  here,  and  those  who  have 
listened,  fall  into  the  fourth  class,  who  receive  the  word  of  God  gladly, 
and  will  cultivate  it  to  bring  forth  abundantly. 

To  the  officers  of  the  Church,  the  best  way  to  achieve  this  is  to  dis- 
charge at  least  three  great  responsibilities  which  are  ours.'  The  first  is 
the  responsibility  to  set  a  proper  example.  Example  is  the  best  and  most 
effective  way  of  teaching.  Let  us  be  exemplary  in  our  speech.  No  true 
leader  of  the  Church  will  ever  profane  the  name  of  Jesus,  especially  in 
the  presence  of  his  sons  or  the  presence  of  any  other  young  young  people. 
Profanity  is  a  vice.  I  know  of  no  country  in  the  world  where  that  vice 
is  so  prevalent  as  here  in  the  United  States.  The  Latter-day  Saints  are 
not  free  from  it.  Our  duty  is  to  set  a  proper  example  in  reverence. 

Setting  Worthy  Examples 

We  can  set  a  proper  example  by  speaking  well  of  others.  The  Lord 
has  admonished  us  not  to  engage  in  backbiting.  I  commend  that  simple 
little  hymn,  too  seldom  sung,  "Nay,  Speak  No  111." 

Nay,  speak  no  ill,  a  kindly  word 

Can  never  leave  a  sting  behind ; 
And  oh,  to  breathe  each  tale  we've  heard, 

Is  far  beneath  a  noble  mind. 
Full  oft  a  better  seed  is  sown 

By  choosing  thus  the  kinder  plan, 
For,  if  but  little  good  is  known, 

Still  let  us  speak  the  best  we  can. 

*   *  *  * 

Then  speak  no  ill,  but  lenient  be 

To  others'  failings  as  your  own ; 
If  you're  the  first  a  fault  to  see, 


156  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

Be  not  the  first  to  make  it  known. 
For  life  is  but  a  passing  day, 

No  lip  may  tell  how  brief  its  span; 
Then,  O  the  little  time  we  stay, 

Let's  speak  of  all  the  best  we  can. 

Another  worthy  example  is  exercising  self-control — controlling  our 
temper  by  not  speaking  angrily  in  the  home.  Let  calmness  be  character- 
istic of  our  home  life.  If  we  do  this,  we  shall  be  setting  a  proper  example 
to  the  world. 

Second,  then  there  is  the  responsibility  of  guardianship,  of  being 
shepherds.  That  is  what  the  Priesthood  means.  Guard  well  those  who 
have  been  put  in  your  keeping.  "Feed  my  sheep,"  said  the  Savior  to  Pet- 
er. "Feed  my  lambs,"  He  repeated.  "Feed  my  sheep." 

And  the  third  obligation,  so  to  live  that  we  may  merit  the  companion- 
ship and  guidance  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  Such  guidance  is  a  reality.  Every 
officer  in  the  Priesthood  is  entitled  to  it  if  he  lives  to  merit  it.  That  is  a 
great,  sublime  privilege  of  membership  in  the  Church  of  Christ.  We 
sometimes  have  it,  but  we  do  not  heed  it.  I  am  speaking  to  myself  when 
I  say  that,  for  I  nearly  lost  my  life  by  not  heeding  it.  I  once  received 
a  warning  just  as  distinct  as  anything  that  has  ever  come  into  my  life. 
"Go  up  to  the  bridge  and  back."  When  I  reached  the  bridge,  I  thought 
we  should  go  farther ;  I  let  my  own  judgment  supersede  inspiration ;  and 
if  it  had  not  been  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  following  the  accident,  I 
should  not  be  here  today. 

God  help  us,  brethren  and  sisters — those  who  are  listening  in — to  be 
true  to  the  responsibilities  that  membership  and  position  in  the  Church  of 
Christ  entail.  I  pray  that  the  spirit  of  unity,  the  spirit  of  peace,  the  spirit 
of  mutual  confidence  that  has  pervaded  the  sessions  of  this,  the  one  hun- 
dred fourteenth  annual  conference,  will  go  with  us  to  our  homes,  to  our 
wards,  throughout  the  stakes  and  the  missions  of  the  Church,  and  that 
God's  blessings  will  attend  Israel  everywhere,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

r 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Brethren :  We  come  to  the  conclusion  of  a  great  Conference.  Cer- 
tainly I,  in  my  lifetime,  have  not  attended  a  greater,  and  in  some  respects 
I  think  this  is  the  finest  of  any  at  which  I  have  ever  been  present. 

I  just  want  to  say  one  word :  I  think  the  quotation  I  shall  use  will 
typify  the  spirit  of  this  Conference.  On  the  evening  of  the  meal  of  the 
Passover  chamber,  after  the  apostles  had  assembled,  after  they  quarreled 
a  bit  among  themselves  about  precedence,  after  the  Savior  had  washed 
their  feet,  after  they  had  eaten  the  Paschal  Supper,  after  Judas  had  gone 
to  work  out  the  betrayal,  after  the  Savior  had  instituted  the  sacrament, 
he  then  preached  some  great  discourses.  The  last  one  before  they  left  the 
chamber  related  to  the  Comforter,  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  I  am  reading  from 
John  14:26-27: 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  157 

But  the  Comforter,  which  is  the  Holy  Ghost,  whom  the  Father  will 
send  in  my  name,  he  shall  teach  you  all  things,  and  bring  all  things  to  your 
remembrance,  whatsoever  I  have  said  unto  you. 

The  Holy  Ghost  has  been  with  us  during  this  Conference,  and  also 
the  gifts  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  may  that  Being  continue  with  us,  that 
to  us  also  He  may  bring  all  things  to  our  remembrance,  whatsoever  we 
have  heard  here  at  this  conference. 

Then  the  Lord  continues : 

Peace  I  leave  with  you,  my  peace  I  give  unto  you :  not  as  the  world 
giveth,  give  I  unto  you.  Let  not  your  heart  be  troubled,  neither  let  it  be 
afraid. 

May  that  peace  and  that  comfort  and  that  consolation  go  with  us  to 
our  homes  and  be  with  us  until  we  meet  again,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


"Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints," — Words  by  William  Clayton  (L.D.S. 
Hymns  No.  194)  was  sung  by  the  congregation  as  the  closing  selection, 
after  which  Elder  Irvin  T.  Nelson,  President  of  the  Big  Cottonwood 
Stake,  offered  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  sine  die. 

The  Musical  exercises  at  the  Sunday  morning  meeting  were  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  conductor.  The  Tabernacle 
Choir  male  chorus,  under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  rendered 
musical  numbers  at  the  Friday  evening  meeting. 

The  music  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  and  the 
Church  of  the  Air  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  Organ  presenta- 
tions and  organ  accompaniments  for  these  broadcasts  were  by  Alexander 
Schreiner,  the  Spoken  Word  by  Richard  L.  Evans. 

The  congregational  singing  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall, 
Conductor,  and  Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played  by 
Alexander  Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper,  and  Wade  N.  Stephens. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

JOSEPH  ANDERSON, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Auditing  Committee  Report    25 

Authorities  and  officers  present   2 

Auxiliary  officers  sustained    15 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  T  -   54 

Increase  in  juvenile  delinquency,  54 — Plea  of  a  young  soldier  for 
Church  membership,  56 — A  survey  among  seminary  students,  57 — 
The  standards  of  the  Church  a  recommendation  for  our  youth,  58. 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E  126 

The  sorrow  of  mothers,  126 — Review  of  events  in  the  Savior's  life, 
127 — The  wonder  of  the  resurrection,  128 — Paul's  testimony  before 
Agrippa,  129 — Mr.  Moody's  advice  to  a  young  preacher,  130 — The 
resurrection  the  foundation  of  faith  and  hope,  130. 

Broadcast  of  Choir  and  Organ  117 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A.  131 

Faith  a  motivating  power,  131 — God^s  purposes  being  fulfilled,  132 — 
The  destiny  of  America,  133 — The  work  to  be  accomplished  by  the 
Priesthood,  134. 

Changes  in  Church  officers    16 

Changes  in  Wards  and  Stakes    17 

Church  Welfare  Committee  sustained    15 

Church  Welfare  Program  Report   23 

Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast  125 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  110 

Everything  or  nothing,  111 — What  is  Scrpiture?  Ill — The  doctrine 

of  oneness,  112— Order  in  the  Church,  113 — The  Welfare  Plan,  114 — 

The  Constitution,  115. 
Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  156 

Closing  address,  156. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  2,  3,  12,  19,  33,  54,  76, 

89,91,93,  97,98,  110,  119,  125,  131,  134,  135;  146;  154;  156 

Death  of  Sister  James  E.  Talmage   18 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   45 

A  tribute  to  the  leading  brethren,  46 — War  makes  no  changes  in  the 

Gospel,  46 — Responsibility  concerning  our  children  unchanged,  47 — 

Fundamentals  still  in  force,  47. 
Evans,  Elder  Richard  L  118 

Talk  at  the  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast. 

Financial  Report   19 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   33 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting   2 

General  Authorities  present   1 

General  Authorities  sustained  :   13 

General  officers  of  the  Church  sustained   14 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  sustained  —   15 

Grant,  President  Heber  J.    3 

My  brother's  conversion,  4 — Enduring  to  the  end,  9 — The  repentant 

sinner,  10 — Pray  always,  11 — Our  young  men  in  Service,  11. 

Harris,  Elder  Franklin  S  ...104 

Israelson,  Elder  John  A  "...  63 


INDEX 


159 


Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   66 

Our  daily  conduct,  66— Repentance  a  principle  of  growth,  67— Re- 
sponsibility of  leadership,  68. 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W.  141 

Impressed  by  the  singing  at  Conference,  142 — Enjoyment  in  fel- 
lowship, 142 — The  Gospel  solves  many  problems,  143 — Sabath- 
breaking  described,  143 — The  word  of  the  Lord,  144 — 'Week-day 
sports  and  picnics  to  be  encouraged,  145. 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A   89 

The  duty  of  parents,  89— An  Aaronic  Priesthood  incident,  90— Ex- 
pression of  confidence  in  the  youth,  90. 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B   84 

A  young  student's  idea,  84 — A  heavy  responsibility,  85 — Faith  in 
heavenly  things  an  anchor,  86 — Experiences  of  boys  in  the  Army,  87 
— A  plea  for  more  spiritual  food,  88. 

McKay,  President  David  0  107 

Slander,  a  deadly  weapon,  108 — Gives  answer,  109 — Condemns  Atti- 
tude, 109- — A  wonderful  organization,  110. 

McKay,  President  David  O  -  119 

Disbelief  all  too  general,  120 — Accepted  as  fact  by  early  Apostles,  122 
— Value  of  their  testimony,  122 — Principles  connoted,  123 — Modern 
revelation,  125 — Conclusion,  125. 

McKay,  President  David  0  154 

Parable  of  the  sower,  155 — Set  worthy  example,  155. 

McKay,  Elder  Thomas  E   60 

Report  of  conditions  in  Europe,  60 — Advice  to  members  upon  with- 
drawal of  missionaries,  62 — Example  better  than  preaching,  62. 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F  149 

Man  inherits  attributes  of  God  his  Father,  149 — Faith  a  necessary 
guide,  150 — A  personal  experience  in  answer  to  prayer,  151 — Respon- 
sibility follows  a  testimony,  152. 

New  Mission  Presidents    16 

New  Stakes  Organized   17 

New  Stake  Presidents   16 

New  Temple  Presidents  -   16 

New  Wards    17 

Obituaries    18 

Officers  sustained    13 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E   91 

An  expression  of  gratitude,  for  blessings,  91 — A  tribute  to  President 
Grant,  92 — A  pledge  of  loyalty,  92. 

Reports  of  Church  Welfare  Program   23 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   33 

Service  the  manifestation  of  love,  33 — Missionary  work  of  great 
importance,  34 — -Our  responsibility  to  serve,  36 — A  strong  testimony,  37. 

Richards,  Bishop  LeGrand    42 

The  Saints  manifesting  faith,  42 — Responsibility  of  leaders,  43 — 
Incident  regarding  the  purchase  of  a  book,  43 — Testimony  of  a  con- 
vert, 44 — Helps  in  missionary  work,  44 — Blessings  follow  the  payment 
of  tithing. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   71 

The  return  to  fundamentals  essential,  71— A  decline  in  sanctity  of 
marriage  contract  evident^  71 — Purity  of  life  defined,  72 — Religious 
influence  waning,  73 — Safe  leadership  for  the  future,  73 — The  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  the  need  of  the  world,  75. 


160  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Romney,  Marion  G  138 

Speaking  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  139— The  exercise  of 
.faith  necessary,  139— Experiences  of  Wilford  Woodruff  and  Brig- 
ham  Young,  140 — The  prayer  of  Enos,  141. 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   76 

Second  Day,  Evening  Meeting   98 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting   54 

Smith,  Elder  David  A   40 

Smith,  President  George  Albert   26 

Gratitude  for  blessings,  26 — The  earth  prepared  to  make  man  happy, 
27 — Commandments  given  for  the  good  of  mankind,  28 — A  law 
given  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  29— Observance  of  God's  laws  brings 
safety,  31 — A  testimony,  32. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   48 

Our  indebtedness  to  the  Lord,  48— God's  plan  is  to  bring  salvation  to 
all  mankind,  49— The  sufferings  of  the  Savior,  49—  Our  responsi- 
bility to  preach  the  Gospel,  50— The  obligation  assumed  in  partaking 
of  the  sacrament,  51 — The  good  name  of  the  Church  to  be  guarded, 
51 — The  spirit  of  the  Lord  withdrawn  from  the  wicked,  52 — Our  obli- 
gation to  those  who  have  died,  53. 

Smith,  Patriarch  Joseph  F   77 

Unity  an  essential  principle,  77 — Causes  for  delinquency,  77 — Hunger 
for  righteousness  to  be  cultivated,  79. 

Smith,  Elder  Nicholas  G   98 

Accomplishments  of  a  young  Latter-day  Saint,  99 — Delinquency  of 
parents,  99 — Conversion  of  a  young  woman,  99 — Importance  of  temple 
work  stressed,  100.  \ 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma  147 

Present  conditions  deplored,  148. 

Statistics    18 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  117 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H  135 

The  preaching  of  the  Gospel  obligatory,  136— The  missionary  spirit 
in  temple  work,  136 — The  Gospel  being  preached  at  home  and  abroad, 
137 — Missionary  work  by  our  Armed  Service  Men,  138. 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting  ...  135 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting  117 

West,  Elder  Franklin  L  101 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A   93 

Accomplishments  of  the  Church  reflect  faith,  93 — Characteristics  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  94 — Experiences  of  the  Prophet's  last  year, 
95 — The  Prophet's  solution  of  present  troubles,  96. 

Wirthlin,  Elder  Joseph  L   79 

Grateful  for  labors  among  youth,  79 — The  Aaronic  Priesthood  and  its 
functions,  80 — Duties  of  Bishops  in  relation  to  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood, 81 — Opportunity  for  service,  82 — Testimony  of  a  young  man,  83. 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E   69 

Reports  from  mission  fields,  69 — The  effects  of  war,  69 — The  growth 
of  the  Church,  70. 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   37 

Comment  by  an  eminent  architect  about  the  tabernacle,  37 — Angel  on 
the  temple,  38— The  standard  works  of  the  Church,  38. 


DANIEL  HAMMER  WELLS 

Mil  [([IIS  0[  IIS  TIME 

By  Bryant  S.  Hinckley 

As  the  polished  facets  of  a  diamond  flash  back  brilliantly 
the  rainbow  of  colors  from  the  light  which  plays  upon  them,  so 
do  certain  historic  characters  reflect  the  light  and  color  of  their 
times. 

Daniel  Hanmer  Wells  was  one  of  these. 

Bryant  S.  Hinckley,  always  illuminating  and  inspirational, 
turns  the  spot  light  of  appraisal  and  appreciation  upon  a  dis- 
tinctive character  in  the  great  drama  of  Mormon  history. 

This  book  is  in  fact  a  new  approach  to  the  study  of  Church 
History.  It  offers  the  events  of  the  history  of  Mormonism  as 
one  of  the  principal  actors  saw  them  happen  and  as  he  acted 
in,  and  was  acted  upon  by  them. 

The  book  is  a  biography  and  more,  a  tribute  of  apprecia- 
tion and  more — it  is  a  history  throbbing  with  the  pulse  beats 
of  great  personalities  as  they  struggle  through  one  crisis  after 
another. 

His  life  ran  the  long  span  which  included  actively  within 
it  labors  of  love  for  and  loyalty  to  every  man  who  has  been 
president  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Daniel  H.  Wells  saw  it  all  happen:  The  rise  of  the  Church 
in  the  Middle  West;  the  glory  of  Nauvoo;  the  catastrophe  ol 
the  martyrdom;  the  pain,  travail,  and  power  of  pioneering;  the 
building  of  the  West;  the  crises  of  pre-statehood  days;  and 
the  long,  hard  pull  which  finally  established  the  Mormon  people 
on  the  heights  where  they  are  now  building. 

Published  privately  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  as  a 
tribute  to  the  loyal  friend  of  his  youth,  it  will  stand  as  a  welcome 
addition  to  the  faith-promoting  literature  of  the  Church. 

DANIEL  HANMER  WELLS 

n  mm  n  his  Tim 

$2.50 

DESEHET  BOOK  COMPMY 


44  East  South  Temple  Street 


Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


Enjoy  the  Fellowship  of  Great  Minds 

by  Reading  GOOD  BOOKS 

,A  book  is  an  invitation  to  share  the  thoughts  of  an  illum- 
inating mind.  Consider  the  enrichment  one  will  receive  from 
spending  quiet  hours  with  the  authors  of  these  books: 


Heber  J.  Grant 
David  O.  McKay 
James  E.  Talmage 

B.  H.  Roberts 
Joseph  F.  Smith 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 


John  A.  Widtsoe 


GOSPEL  STANDARDS  $2.25 

ANCIENT  APOSTLES   1.00 

JESUS  THE  CHRIST   2.00 

ARTICLES  OF  FAITH   1.25 

THE  GOSPEL    1.00 

GOSPEL  DOCTRINE   2.50 

ESSENTIALS  IN  CHURCH 

HISTORY  _   2.00 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  PROPHET 

JOSEPH  SMITH  _  _   2.00 

LIFE  OF  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH   2.50 

WAY  TO  PERFECTION  _  1.25 

SIGNS  OF  THE  TIMES   1.25 

IN  SEARCH  OF  TRUTH  50 

PRTESTHOOD  AND  CHURCH 
GOVERNMENT    _   1.75 

DISCOURSES  OF  BRIGHAM 
YOUNG     2.50 

STORIES  OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINT 
HYMNS    1.50 

JOSEPH  SMITH.  AN  AMERICAN 
PROPHET    3.00 

UNTO  THE  HILLS   1.50 

THIS  DAY  AND  ALWAYS  _..  1.50 

These  and  many  other  sources  of  inspiration  are  available 
to  you  in  the  large  stock  of  the 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

Publishers  of  Latter-day  Saint  literature 
44  East  South  Temple  Street 
Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 
The  Book  Center  oi  the  Intermountain  West 


George  D.  Pyper 
John  Henry  Evans 
Richard  L.  Evans 


