OnsL  dhmdhsd,  Jwenty-Mcond. 
ANNUAL 

COnf£R€nC€ 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

tiphiL  bt  5  and.  6, 
1952 

With  Report  of  Discourses 

Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Printed  In  the  United  States  of  America 


Education  Lives  As  Long  As  You  Read 

GOOD  BOOKS 


Life  of  a  Great  Leader  $2.50 

Biography  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant 
Bryant  S.  Hinckley 

Presidents  of  the  Church   $4.00 

Preston  Nibley 
New  revised  edition  including  biographical  sketch  of 
President  David  O.  McKay 

Brigham  Young,  the  Man  and  His  Work  $3.00 

Preston  Nibley 

James  H.  Moyle  $3.50 

Gordon  B.  Hinckley 

A  Marvelous  Work  and  a  Wonder  $1 .75 

LeGrand  Richards 

Sermons  and  Missionary  Services  of 

Melvin  J.  Ballard   $2.75 

Bryant  S.  Hinckley 

Prophecy  and  Modern  Times   $1.75 

W.  Cleon  Skousen 

Ancient  America  and  The  Book  of  Mormon  $4.00 

Milton  R.  Hunter  and  Thomas  Stewart  Ferguson 

Outlines  of  Ecclesiastical  History  $2.25 

B.  H.  Roberts 


ALL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 
44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-second  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-second  An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in 
the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
Friday,  Saturday  and  Sunday,  April  4, 
5,  6,  1952. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  confer- 
ence were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00 
p.m.,  Friday,  Saturday  and  Sunday,  and 
the  General  Priesthood  meeting  was  held 
in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday  evening, 
April  6,  at  7:00. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  ses- 
sions were  broadcast  over  Station  KSL, 
and  by  arrangement  through  KSL  over 
the  following  stations: 

In  Utah:  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KSVC 
at  Richfield,  KJAM  at  Vernal,  and 
KVNU  at  Logan. 

In  Idaho:  KGEM  at  Boise,  KID  at 
Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KBIO 
at  Burley,  KVMV  at  Twin  Falls,  and 
KRXK  at  Rexburg. 

In  Colorado:  KEXO  at  Grand  Junc- 
tion. 

In  Arizona:  KTYL  at  Mesa. 

In  Nevada:  KLAS  at  Las  Vegas. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  ses- 
sions were  also  televised  over  KSL  tele- 
vision station,  channel  5. 

All  general  sessions  of  the  conference 
and  the  General  Priesthood  meeting 
were  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
on  Temple  Square,  and  in  Barratt  Hall 
(60  North  Main  Street),  over  a  loud- 
speaking  system  and  by  television.  Thou- 
sands in  addition  listened  to  the  services 
on  the  Tabernacle  grounds  by  means  of 
amplifying  equipment. 


President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services  at  each  of 
the  sessions  of  the  conference,  including 
the  General  Priesthood  meeting.    : '  ; 

Included  in  this  record  is  also  a  full 
report  of  Columbia  Broadcasting  Com- 
pany's Church  of  the  Air,  Sunday  morn- 
ing, April  6,  from  8:30  to  9:00,  and  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast 
from  9:00  to  9:30. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  David  O. 
McKay,  Stephen  L  Richards,  and  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

The  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  John  A.  Widtsoe, 
Albert  E.  Bowen,  Harold  B.  Lee,  Spencer 
W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  Mark 
E.  Petersen,  Matthew  Cowley,  Henry 
D.  Moyle,  Delbert  L.  Stapley,  Marion 
G.  Romney,  and  LeGrand  Richards.* 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G. 
Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Gouncil  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles:  Thomas  E.  McKay, 
Clifford  E.  Young,  Alma  Sonne,  George 
Q.  Morris,  **,  EIRay  L.  Christiansen, 
and  John  Longden. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy: 
Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins, 
Richard  L.  Evans,  Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  S. 
Dilworth  Young,  Milton  R.  Hunter,  and 
Bruce  R.  McConkie. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric:  Joseph  L. 
Wirthlin,  ***,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson, 
****  and  Carl  W.  Buehner.  ***** 


♦LeGrand  Richards  was  sustained  as  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  at  this  confer- 
ee. 

**Stayner  Richards  ^vas  in  England,  presiding  over  the  British  Mission. 

***Joseph  L.  Wirthlin  was  sustained  at  this  conference  as  Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church. 

****Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  was  sustained  at  this  conference  as  First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

*****Carl  W.  Buehner  was  sustained  at  this  conference  as  Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  A.  William 
Lund,  Assistant. 

Members  of  General  Welfare  Com- 
mittee. Church  Welfare  Program. 

Members  of  General  Board  of  Edu- 
cation, Commissioner  of  Education, 
Seminary  Supervisors,  and  Directors 
and  Associate  Directors  of  Institutes. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coun- 
selors, Bishops  of  Wards  and  their 
Counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples, 
Patriarchs,  High  Priests,  Seventies, 
Elders;  General,  Stake  and  Ward  offi- 
cers of  Auxiliary  Associations,  etc.,  from 
all  parts  of  the  Church. 

Mission  Presidents:  Richard  L.  Evans, 


Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City;  Delbert 
G.  Taylor,  Eastern  States;  J.  Howard 
Maughan,  New  England;  Waldo  M. 
Andersen,  Northern  States;  Carl  C. 
Burton,  Great  Lakes;  John  B.  Hawkes, 
North  Central  States;  John  B.  Matheson, 
East  Central  States;  J.  Orval  Ellsworth, 
Central  States;  Peter  J.  Ricks,  Southern 
States;  Bryan  L.  Bunker,  California; 
Thomas  W.  Gardner,  Northern  Cali- 
fornia; Benjamin  L.  Bowring,  Texas- 
Louisana;  Ray  E.  Dillman,  Western 
States;  James  A.  McMurrin,  Northwest- 
ern States;  J.  Melvin  Toone,  Canada; 
Scott  Zimmerman,  Western  Canada; 
Lucian  M.  Meacham,  Jr.,  Mexico;  Lorin 
F.  Jones,  Spanish- American;  Golden  R. 
Buchanan,  Southwest  Indian;  Hilton  A. 
Robertson,  Chinese;  Ernest  Nelson, 
Hawaii. 


FIRST  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 


The  conference  commenced  Friday 
morning,  April  4,  at  10  o'clock,  with 
President  David  O.  McKay  presiding 
and  conducting  the  services.  The 
Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity  as 
time  came  for  opening  the  first  session, 
and  the  Assembly  Hall  to  the  south  of 
the  Tabernacle,  as  also  the  Barratt  Hall, 
was  crowded  with  people,  and  many 
others  assembled  on  the  grounds. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the  One 
Hundred  Twenty-Second  Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square 
in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

All  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church  are  in  attendance,  excepting 
President  Stayner  Richards,  one  of  the 
Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  now  presiding 
over  the  European  Missions,  from  whom 
we  have  just  received  the  following 
cable: 

"Greetings  for  a  wonderful  General 
Conference.  Trust  that  you  shall  be 
be  abundantly  blessed,  and  sustained  in 
health.  You  are  constantly  in  our  pray- 
ers. President  and  Sister  Stayner  Rich- 
ards." 

We  are  pleased  to  note  the  presence 
of  the  following  state  and  educational 
officials,  whom  we  welcome  cordially  to 
this  session  of  Conference;  Governor 
and  Mrs.  J.  Bracken  Lee;  Mayor  and 
Mrs.  Earl  J.  Glade;  Dr.  A.  Ray  Olpin 
president  of  the  University  of  Utah; 
Dr.  Ernest  L.  Wilkinson  president  of 
the  Brigham  Young  University;  State 
Superintendent  of  Schools,  Allan  Bate- 
man;  Heber  Bennion,  Secretary  of  State; 
and  undoubtedly  others  whom  we  have 
not  recognized,  to  all  of  whom  we  extend 
cordial  welcome,  as  to  all  of  you  here 
assembled  and  listening  over  radio  or 
television. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  is  the  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 


These  services,  and  all  general  sessions 
of  Conference,  will  be  broadcast  in  the 
Assembly  Hall,  and  in  Barratt  Hall, 
over  a  loud-speaking  system  and  by 
television,  and  we  might  announce  at 
this  time  for  the  benefit  of  our  listeners 
that  in  addition  to  all  these  sessions 
being  given  over  television,  the  Church 
of  the  Air  Service  from  8:30  to  9:00 
a.  m.  next  Sunday  morning,  and  also 
the  Choir  Broadcast  from  9:00  a.  m.  to 
9.30  a.  m.  next  Sunday  morning  may 
be  seen  over  the  television. 

All  other  sessions  will  be  broadcast 
over  the  following  stations: 

In  Utah:  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KSVC 
at  Richfield,  KJAM  at  Vernal,  and 
KVNU  at  Logan. 

In  Idaho:  KGEM  at  Boise,  KID  at 
at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KBIO 
Burley,  KEEP  at  Twin  Falls,  and  KRXK 
at  Rexburg. 

In  Colorado:  KEXO  at  Grand  Junc- 
tion. 

In  Arizona:  KTYL  at  Mesa. 

In  Nevada:  KLAS  at  Las  Vegas. 

We  express  appreciation  to  the  sta- 
tions named  for  their  cooperation  in 
broadcasting  the  proceedings  of  this  con- 
ference. We  thank  them  for  their  ser- 
vice which  will  continue  throughout 
the  conference.  However,  in  the  interest 
of  time,  we  shall  not  repeat  this  an- 
nouncement at  every  session. 

All  general  sessions  will  also  be  tele- 
vised over  KSL  Television  Station,  chan- 
nel 5. 

We  are  pleased  to  inform  you  that  the 
singing  of  this  morning's  session  will 
be  furnished  by  the  Brigham  Young 
University  Combined  Choruses,  with 
Norman  Gulbrandsen  and  Crawford 
Gates  conducting,  and  Brother  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  session  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses  singing,  "The  Heavens  are 
Telling,"  conducted  by  Elder  Norman 
Gulbrandsen. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  4 

Elder  Castle  H.  Murphy,  formerly  twice 
president  of  the  Hawaiian  Mission. 
The  Choir  will  now  sing. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  sang,  "The  Heavens  Are 
Telling." 

Elder  Castle  H.  Murphy,  formerly 
president  of  the  Hawaiian  Mission,  of- 
fered the  invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  now  sing,  "Come, 
Sweet  Death,"  conducted  by  Brother 
Norman  Gulbrandsen. 

Following  the  singing,  Elder  Joseph 
Anderson,  clerk  of  the  Conference,  will 
read  the  vital  statistical  data,  changes  in 
the  ward  and  stake  organizations,  the 
obituaries  of  the  Church,  and  financial 
expenditures. 


The  Combined  Choruses  sang  "Come 
Sweet  Death." 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  read  the 
following  reports: 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 

STAKE,  WARD  AND  BRANCH 
ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  OCTOBER 
CONFERENCE  1951 

MISSION  CHANGES  AND  NEW 
PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Claude  W.  Nalder  appointed  presi- 
dent of  Central  Atlantic  States  mission 
to  succeed  J.  Robert  Price. 

Delbert  G.  Taylor  appointed  president 
of  Eastern  States  Mission  to  succeed 
George  Q.  Morris. 

Donovan  H.  Van  Dam  appointed 
president  of  Netherlands  Mission  to  suc- 
ceed John  P.  Lillywhite. 

Peter  J.  Ricks  appointed  president  of 
Southern  States  Mission  to  succeed  Al- 
bert Choules. 

D'Monte  W.  Coombs  appointed  presi- 
dent of  Tongan  Mission  to  succeed  Evan 
W.  Huntsman. 

R.  Scott  Zimmerman  appointed  presi- 


First  Day 

dent  of  Western  Canadian  Mission  to 
succeed  Glen  G.  Fisher. 

LeRoy  R.  Mallory  released  as  presi- 
dent of  the  Tahiti  an  Mission. 

NEW  STAKES  ORGANIZED 

Bountiful  Stake  organized  March  23, 
1952,  from  South  Davis  Stake. 

Columbia  River  Stake  organized  De- 
cember 2,  1951,  from  Portland  Stake  and 
Northwestern  States  Mission. 

East  Lethbridge  Stake  organized  Oc- 
tober 28,  1951,  from  Lethbridge  Stake. 

Gooding  Stake  organized  March  9, 
1952,  from  Blaine  Stake. 

Willamette  Stake  organized  Decem- 
ber 2,  1951,  from  Portland  Stake  and 
Northwestern  States  Mission. 

STAKE  PRESIDENTS  CHOSEN 

Dee  Lloyd  Andreasen,  president  of 
Bannock  Stake  to  succeed  Milton  F. 
Hartvigsen. 

Valdo  D.  Benson,  president  of  Blaine 
Stake  to  succeed  Ferrin  L.  Manwill. 

Thomas  A.  Briggs,  president  of  Bounti- 
ful Stake. 

Royle  Spencer  Papworth,  president  of 
Columbia  River  Stake. 

Clarence  A.  Hurren,  president  of  East 
Cache  Stake  to  succeed  EIRay  L. 
Christiansen. 

Grant  Goddard  Woolley,  president  of 
East  Lethbridge  Stake. 

Ross  C.  Lee,  president  of  Gooding 
Stake. 

Roy  D.  Olpin,  president  of  Millard 
Stake  to  succeed  Preal  George. 

Thomas  Gay  Myers,  president  of 
Moapa  Stake  to  succeed  Bryan  L.  Bunker. 

C.  Bryant  Whiting,  president  of  St. 
Johns  Stake  to  succeed  Albert  F.  Ander- 
son. 

Ward  C.  Holbrook,  president  of  South 
Davis  Stake  to  succeed  Thomas  A. 
Briggs. 

Ralph  B.  Lake,  president  of  Willam- 
ette Stake. 

Alonzo  F.  Hopkin,  president  of 
Woodruff  Stake  to  succeed  Joseph  I. 
Williams. 


NEW  WARDS 

NEW  WARDS  ORGANIZED 

Concord  Ward,  Berkeley  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Martinez  and  Walnut 
Creek  Wards. 

Shoshone  Ward,  Blaine  Stake,  former- 
ly Shoshone  Branch. 

Kelso-Longview,  St.  Helens,  Vancou- 
ver and  Washougal  Wards,  Columbia 
River  Stake,  formerly  of  Portland  Stake 
and  Northwestern  States  Mission. 

Garden  Grove  Ward,  East  Long 
Beach  Stake,  formerly  Garden  Grove 
Branch. 

Jacksonville  Second  Ward,  Florida 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Jacksonville 
Ward. 

South  Highland  Park  Ward,  Highland 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Highland 
Park  Ward. 

Morningside  Park  Ward,  Inglewood 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Inglewood 
Ward. 

South  Harvard  Ward,  Liberty  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Harvard  Ward. 

Rawlins  Ward,  Lyman  Stake,  former- 
ly Rawlins  Branch. 

Coolidge  Ward,  Mesa  Stake,  formerly 
Coolidge  Branch. 

Murray  Seventh  Ward,  Murray  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Grant  and  Murray 
Sixth  Wards. 

Payson  Fifth  Ward,  Nebo  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Payson  First  and 
Park  Wards. 

Ely  Second  Ward,  Nevada  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Ely  Ward. 

Kearns  Ward,  North  Jordan  Stake, 
formerly  Kearns  Branch. 

Kahala  Ward,  Oahu  Stake,  formed  by 
division  of  Waikiki  Ward. 

Magna  Second  and  Pleasant  Green 
Second  Wards,  Oquirrh  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Magna  and  Pleasant 
Green  Wards. 

Spanish  Fork  Sixth  Ward,  Palmyra 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Spanish 
Fork  Third  Ward. 

Pocatello  Fifteenth  Ward,  Pocatello 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Pocatello 
Eighth  Ward. 

Gresham  and  Oregon  City  Wards, 
Portland  Stake,  formerly  branches  in 
Northwestern  States  Mission. 


ORGANIZED  5 

Provo  Sixteenth  Ward,  Provo  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Provo  Tenth 
Ward. 

Mt.  Rose  Ward,  Reno  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Reno  Ward. 

St.  Johns  Second  and  Eagar  Second 
Wards,  St.  Johns  Stake,  formed  by  divi- 
sion of  St.  Johns  and  Eagar  Wards. 

Encino  Ward,  San  Fernando  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Reseda  Ward. 

Bountiful  Seventh  Ward,  South  Davis 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Bountiful 
Fourth  Ward. 

Idaho  Falls  Eleventh  and  Twelfth 
Wards,  South  Idaho  Falls  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Idaho  Falls  Third  and 
Sixth  Wards. 

Downey  Second  Ward,  South  Los 
Angeles  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Downey  Ward. 

Coeur  d'Alene  Ward,  Spokane  Stake, 
formerly  Coeur  d'Alene  Branch. 

Pullman  Ward,  Spokane  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Moscow  Ward. 

Sandpoint  Ward,  Spokane  Stake, 
formerly  Sandpoint  Branch. 

Driggs  Second  Ward,  Teton  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Driggs  Ward. 

South  Thirteenth  and  West  Twelfth 
Wards,  University  Stake,  formed  by  di- 
vision of  Thirteenth  and  Twelfth 
Wards. 

Pocatello  Sixteenth  Ward,  West  Poca- 
tello Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Poca- 
tello Fifth  Ward. 

Imperial  West  Ward,  Wilford  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Imperial  Ward. 

Corvallis,  Springfield  and  Roseburg 
Wards,  Willamette  Stake,  formerly 
branches  in  Northwestern  States  Mis- 
sion. 

WARDS  AND  BRANCHES 
TRANSFERRED 

Jerome  First,  Jerome  Second,  Wendell, 
Gooding,  Hagerman  and  Fairfield 
Wards,  Gooding  Stake,  formerly  of 
Blaine  Stake. 

Bountiful  First,  Second,  Third,  Fifth, 
Sixth  and  West  Bountiful  Wards,  Boun- 
tiful Stake,  formerly  of  South  Davis 
Stake. 

Barnwell,  Lethbridge  Second,  Rose- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  4 

mary,  Taber  First  and  Taber  Second 
Wards,  Burdett  and  Brooks  Branches, 
East  Lethbridge  Stake,  formerly  of  Leth- 
bridge  Stake. 

Hood  River,  Irvington,  Laurelhurst 
and  University  Park  Wards,  Columbia 
River  Stake,  formerly  of  Portland  Stake. 

Eugene  and  Salem  Wards,  Willamette 
Stake,  formerly  of  Portland  Stake. 

WARD  NAME  CHANGED 

Logan  Twentieth  Ward,  East  Cache 
Stake,  formerly  College  Hill  Ward. 

Jacksonville  First  Ward,  Florida  Stake, 
formerly  Jacksonville  Ward. 

East  Stratford  Ward,  Highland  Stake, 
formerly  Park  Avenue  Ward. 

Ely  First  Ward,  Nevada  Stake,  form- 
erly Ely  Ward. 

Magna  First  Ward,  Oquirrh  Stake, 
formerly  Magna  Ward. 

Pleasant  Green  First  Ward,  Oquirrh 
Stake,  formerly  Pleasant  Green  Ward. 

Eagar  First  Ward,  St.  Johns  Stake, 
formerly  Eagar  Ward. 

St.  Johns  First  Ward,  St.  Johns  Stake, 
formerly  St.  Johns  Ward. 

Vallejo  First  Ward,  Santa  Rosa  Stake, 
formerly  Vallejo  Ward. 

Vallejo  Second  Ward,  Santa  Rosa 
Stake,  formerly  Carquinez  Ward. 

Downey  First  Ward,  South  Los  Ange- 
les Stake,  formerly  Downey  Ward. 

Driggs  First  Ward,  Teton  Stake,  form- 
erly Driggs  Ward. 

East  Twelfth  Ward,  University  Stake, 
formerly  Twelfth  Ward. 

North  Thirteenth  Ward,  University 
Stake,  formerly  Thirteenth  Ward. 

INDEPENDENT  BRANCHES 
ORGANIZED 

Deaver-Frannie  Branch,  Big  Horn 
Stake,  formerly  part  of  Cowley  and  Pow- 
ell Wards. 

College  Hill  Branch,  East  Cache 
Stake,  formerly  part  of  College  Hill 
Ward. 

Paradise  Branch,  Gridley  Stake,  form- 
erly part  of  Chico  Ward. 

High  River  Branch.  Lethbridge  Stake, 
formerly  a  branch  in  Western  Canadian 
Mission. 


First  Day 

Southern  California  Branch  for  the 
Deaf,  Los  Angeles  Stake. 

San  Tan  Branch,  Mesa  Stake, 

Pegram  Branch,  Montpelier  Stake, 
formerly  part  of  Wardboro  Ward. 

North  Jersey  Branch,  New  York  Stake, 
formerly  part  of  East  Orange,  Manhattan 
and  Westchester  Wards. 

Centerville  Branch,  Oakland  Stake, 
formerly  part  of  Hayward  Ward. 

Beaverton,  Hillsboro,  McMinnville 
and  Newberg  Branches,  Portland  Stake, 
formerly  of  Northwestern  States  Mission. 

Corona  Branch,  San  Bernardino  Stake, 
formerly  part  of  Arlington  Ward. 

Simi  Branch,  San  Fernando  Stake, 
formerly  part  of  Reseda  Ward. 

Lompoc  and  Paso  Robles  Branches, 
Santa  Barbara  Stake,  formerly  part  of 
Santa  Maria  and  San  Luis  Obispo 
Wards. 

Fort  Bragg  Branch,  Santa  Rosa  Stake, 
formerly  part  of  Willits  Branch. 

Imbler  and  Elgin  Branches,  Union 
Stake,  formerly  Imbler-Elgin  Ward. 

Albany,  Cottage  Grove,  Junction  City, 
Lebanon  and  Sweet  Home  Branches, 
Willamette  Stake,  formerly  of  North- 
western States  Mission. 

BRANCHES  DISCONTINUED 

Lone  Star  Branch,  Blaine  Stake,  dis- 
continued, membership  transferred  to 
Shoshone  Ward. 

CHANGES  IN  TEMPLE  PRESIDENTS 

A.  George  Raymond  president  of 
Logan  Temple  to  succeed  EIRay  L. 
Christiansen. 

THOSE  WHO  HAVE  PASSED  AWAY 

Elder  Joseph  F.  Merrill  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve. 

Martha  J.  Ballard,  widow  of  Elder 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  former  member  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 

Preston  D.  Richards,  whose  gratuitous 
contribution  to  the  acquisition  of  the 
Los  Angeles  Temple  site  and  the  clear- 
ing of  all  legal  details  connected  with 
the  erection  of  the  temple,  has  been 
outstanding. 


FINANCIAL  REPORT 


7 


PART  I— BUDGET  EXPENDITURES  FROM  CHURCH  GENERAL  FUNDS  1951 


1.   Administrative  Expenses 

Office  of  the  Corporation  of  the  President 

For  salaries  of  employees  and  living  allowances  and  traveling  expenses 
of  the  General  Authorities;  and  for  equipment  and  expenses  of  offices.... 

Office  of  the  Corporation  of  the  Presiding  Bishop 

For  salaries  of  employees;  for  equipment  and  expenses  of  offices; 
for  traveling  expenses  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  of  building  super- 
visors, and  of  auditors,  etc.;  and  for  Aaronic  Priesthood  supervision. ... 

Miscellaneous  Committees 

For  expenses  of  General  Priesthood,  General  Music,  Servicemen's,  No- 
Liquor-Tobacco,  and  Statistics  Committees;  and  salaries  of  the  Taber- 
nacle choristers  and  organists  

Total  administrative  expenses,  all  of  which  are  covered  by  non-tithing 


Budget 
Funds 
Spent 


$  454,106 


517,711 


85,080 


income 


1,056,897 


2.  Stakes  and  Wards 

For  expenses  of  191  stakes  and  1,666  wards  and  independent  branches, 
including  the  maintenance  of  buildings;  expenses  and  mileage  allow- 
ances of  stake  presidents  and  bishops;  furnishings  for  stake  and  ward 
offices;  erection,  remodeling  and  repairing  of  stake  and  ward  buildings   $  8,420,348 

3.  Missions  and  Missionary  Work 

For  maintenance  and  operation  of  the  established  missions  of  the 
Church;  living  and  traveling  expenses  of  mission  presidents;  return 
fares  of  missionaries;  free  literature,  radio  and  publicity  expense;  erec- 
tion, remodeling,  purchase,  maintenance  and  renting  of  meeting  houses 
and  other  buildings;  for  expenses  of  bureaus  of  information  and  of  the 
Missionary  Home  in  Salt  Lake  City.   $  3,894,826 

4.  Temples 

For  expenses  of  the  eight  temples  now  in  operation  and  for  construc- 
tion work,  repairs  and  maintenance  of  temple  buildings,  outbuildings, 
and  grounds   499,042 

5.  Welfare 

For  the  purchase  of  equipment,  commodities  and  containers;  for  operat- 
ing expenses  of  bishops'  storehouses,  and  for  the  transportation  of  com- 
modities; for  the  purchase,  construction  and  remodeling  of  bishops' 
storehouses  and  other  general  welfare  properties;  for  General  Church 
Welfare  Committee  administrative  expenses;  and  for  the  care  of  the 
needy — rents,  light,  fuel,  hospitalization,  burials,  etc   1,947,653 

6.  General  Buildings  and  Grounds 

For  maintenance  of  and  repairs  and  improvements  to  general  Church 
buildings  including  the  Church  Administration  building,  Tabernacle, 
and  Assembly  Hall,  and  grounds,  and  of  buildings  situated  immediately 
adjacent  to  the  Temple  Block,  and  $654,596  allowed  to  hospitals  for 
new  construction  and  for  improvements   1,090,561 

7.  Schools  and  Educational  Activities  » 

For  operating  expenses  of  the  Brigham  Young  University,  Ricks  College, 
Juarez  Stake  Schools,  18  institutes,  135  seminaries  and  37  junior  semi- 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  4  first  Day 

'■  . ;      ■  ■  •  -  ■  i      .  '  . . '  •  .  .        '  (Calendar 

,  year 

Basis) 

'  naries,  the  McCune  School  of  Music  and  Art,  the  Deseret  Gymnasium, 
and  the  L.D.S.  Business  College,  including  the  salaries  of  administrative 
officers  and  teachers;  for  the  erection  and  repair  of  buildings;  and  for 
purchase  of  building  sites   $  2,627,430 

8.  Genealogical  Society 

For  the  maintenance  of  the  genealogical  library,  archives,  temple  index 
bureau,  and  allied  departments;  for  recording,  indexing,  photograph- 
ing and  filing  genealogical  and  temple  ordinance  data,  including  the 
names  of  515,145  persons  forwarded  to  the  temples  for  ordinances;  and 
for  microfilm  copies  of  genealogical  records  from  7  states  and  9  foreign 
countries  equivalent  to  57,805  printed  volumes  of  approximately  385 
pages  per  volume   773,244 

9.  Other  Expenses 

For  taxes  and  assessments;  insurance;  contributions  to  civic  and  edu- 
cational institutions;  for  maintenance  and  repair  of  historic  properties 
and  monuments;  for  expenses  of  the  Papago  Indian  Project;  for  restora- 
tion of  the  Church  Insurance  Fund;  and  for  other  purposes   269,821 


Total   (Church  General   Funds  Spent)   $  20,579,822 

PART  II — EXPENDITURES  OTHER  THAN  FROM  CHURCH  GENERAL  FUNDS  1951 

The  expenditures  budgeted  from  Church  General  Funds  and  paid  principally  from  the 
tithes  are  detailed  above.  The  following  expenditures  were  made  from  further  contri- 
butions by  members  of  the  Church: 

For  construction  and  repair  of  meeting  houses  and  other  buildings  and  for 

purchases  of  sites,  buildings  and  furnishings   $  6,502,423 

For  Stake,  Ward  and  Mission  Maintenance  purposes  (including  auxiliaries 

recreation  expenses)    4,473,942 

For  assistance  to  needy  from  Ward  and  Mission  Fast  Offerings    1,447,540 

For  acquisition  of  Storehouses  and  Budget  Production  Projects  (including 

the  operation  of  these  projects)   1,307,251 

For  assistance  to  Missionaries  from  contributions  received  by  Wards  and 

Stakes  ..............   271,108 

For  operation  of  the  Primary  Children's  Hospital,  of  the  auxiliary  general 

boards,  and  of  the  temples   283,056 


Total  spent  from  contributions   (other  than  tithes)   $14,285,320 

Also  the  following  expenditures  have  been  made  from  income  of  Church  Organizations: 

Educational  Institutions — from  tuitions  and  dormitory  and  other  service 

income   $  2,520,771 

Hospitals — for  care  of  sick  in  addition  to  amount  paid  from  tithes  and  in- 
cluded in  Part  1   21,238 

Auxiliaries — from  publications,  sewing  projects,  and  other  business  income  1,092,135 

Temples — from  clothing  rentals  and  other  receipts   142,207 

Deseret  Industries,  Deseret  Clothing  Factory,  and  group  canning  projects — 

from  operating  income   554,492 

Welfare  budget  production  projects — from  operating  income   1,056,700 


Total  spent  from  operating  income  of  Church  organizations....   $  5,387,543 

i   : 

GRAND  TOTAL — cash  expenditures  of  the  Church,  from  general  funds,  local 

contributions  and  other  income,  for  the  year  1951   $  40,252,685 


FINANCIAL  REPORT  >  9 
PART  III— THE  CHURCH  WELFARE  PROGRAM — 1951 

Cash  Expenditures  for  Welfare — (All  Included  in  Figures  Given  Above), ,  j,:  -  :: 

Expended  from  stake  and  mission  fast  offerings  and  welfare  contributions 
for  the  care  of  the  needy — food,  clothing,  rents,  light,  heat,  hospitali- 
zation, burials,  etc   $  2,588,742 

Disbursed  for  the  operating  cost  of  Bishops'  Storehouses  and  for  the  over- 
head expenses  of  the  General  Committee   377,296 

Disbursed  by  the  Corporations  of  the  President  and  of  the  Presiding  Bishop 
for  direct  assistance  to  the  needy,  and  contributions  to  civic  and  edu- 
cational institutions    589,746 

Charity  expenditures  by  Hospitals  for  the  care  of  the  sick   21,238 


Total  Cash  Relief  Expenditures    $  3,577,022 

In  addition  to  the  foregoing  cash  expenditures  of  Church  general  funds, 
Welfare  contributions  and  fast  offerings,  there  were  distributed  to  the 

needy,  welfare  commodities  to  the  value  of  over   $  1,091,000 


This  makes  a  grand  total  distributed  under  the  Welfare  Program  in  1951 

by  the  various  agencies  involved,  of   S  4.668,022 


Welfare  Report 

The  General  Church  Welfare  Committee  makes  the  following  further  report  for  the 
year  1951: 

Distribution  of  Commodities  from  Bishops'  Storehouses 

Distribution  of  commodities  amounted  to  7-%  million  pounds  of  food  and  420,000 
items  of  household  supplies,  clothing  and  other  articles.  This  distribution  is  9% 
lower  than  during  1950. 

Assistance  Rendered 

There  have  been  from  17,913  to  55,460  persons  assisted  through  the  Bishops*  Store- 
house Program  each  year  since  1938.  In  1951  there  were  35,128  persons  so  assisted 
in  the  United  States  and  Canada.  This  is  a  decrease  from  1950  of  4,409  persons. 

From  1938  to  the  end  of  1951  more  than  3,232  families  have  been  helped  to  become 
self-supporting  and  20,191  families  have  been  assisted  in  other  ways.  During  this 
same  period  the  Deseret  Industries  has  provided  continuous  work  for  hundreds  of 
handicapped  and  aged  persons.  During  the  year  1951  they  had  an  average  of  321 
persons  working  in  their  plants,  65%  of  these  were  handicapped  persons.  The 
Deseret  Clothing  Factory,  another  branch  of  the  Welfare  Plan,  has  provided  con- 
tinuous employment  for  from  30  to  60  individuals,  many  of  whom  were  widows  and 
elderly  persons.  '  ' 

Contributed  Work  and  Construction  Projects 

During  the  year,  91,600  man  days  of  work  and  the  use  of  equipment  amounting  to 
approximately  4,000  unit  days  were  donated  in  the  production  of  the  budget, 
15,300  man  days  of  work  were  donated  in  operation  of  bishops'  storehouses,  and  8,200 
man  days  of  work  were  donated  in  the  construction  of  buildings  for  the \  operation 
of  the  Welfare  Plan.  In  addition  to  these,  107  construction  and  remodeling  projects 
were  completed  by  the  brethren,  47  of  which  were  for  the  benefit  of  less  fortunate 
members.  '  

Placement  and  Counseling  Service 

During  1951,  3,693  persons  were  given  occupational  counseling,  resulting  in  the 
solution  of  their  employment  problems,  and  5,849  other  persons  were  placed  in  re- 
munerative employment.  Reported  unemployment  has  decreased  to  one-third  the 
figure  of  a  year  ago.  ,■  •  .  , .  . 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  4  First  Day 

STATISTICAL  REPORT — 195) 

Number  of  Stakes  of  Zion,  at  end  of  year   191 

Number  of  Wards    1491 

Number  of  Independent  Branches   175 

Total  Wards  and  Independent  Branches,  at  end  of  year   1666 

Number  of  Missions  _.   43 

Church  Membership: 

Stakes    933,792 

Missions    213,365 


Total  Membership  (at  end  of  year)   1,147,157 

Church  Growth: 

Children  blessed  in  Stakes  and  Missions   39,658 

Children  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions   23,205 

Converts  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions   17,175 

Social  Statistics: 

Birth  rate  per  thousand   37.81 

Marriage  rate  per  thousand   9.01 

Death  rate  per  thousand   5.93 

(These  data  on  births,  marriages  and  deaths  are  computed  from  stake 

reports  and  do  not  include  the  missions) 

Missionaries: 

Number  of  missionaries  in  the  missions  of  the  Church  (including  those 

enroute  to  or  from  their  fields  of  labor)   5,065 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  stakes   5,587 


Total  missionaries — December  31,  1951   10,652 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  in  the  Missionary  Home  in 

1951   ,   1,800 

President  David  O.  McKay:  reviewed  the  annual  financial  report  of 

the  Corporation  of  the  President  of  the 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  just  read  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 

statistical  and  financial  data  relating  to  Saints  for  the  year  ending  December  31, 

the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  1951. 

Saints.  The  accounting  system  and  records 

Elder  Harold  Bennett  will  now  read  were  found  to  be  adequate  and  meticu- 

the  report  of  the  Church  Auditing  Com-  iousiy   maintained.    Disbursement  of 

mittee.  Brother  Harold  Bennett:  Church  funds  is  controlled  through  a 

REPORT  OF  CHURCH  AUDITING  comprehensive   budget  system,  which 

COMMITTEE  properly  safeguards  expenditures 

The  funds  are  being  carefully  con- 
Elder  Harold  H.  Bennett  read  the  served,  expenditures  being  less  than  re- 
following  report:  ceipts. 

The  following  letter  was  sent  to  the  The  Church  is  in  strong  financial 

First  Presidency  under  date  of  March  position,  and  free  from  debt. 

31,  1952.  Respectfully  submitted, 

President  David  O.  McKay  and  Albert  E*  Bo^ 

^.ounse  ors.  George  S.  Spencer 

Dear  Brethren:  Harofd  H 

The  Church  Auditing  Committee  has  Church  Auditing  Committee 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


11 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

In  addition  to  what  has  already  been 
given,  I  may  add  the  following  items, 
submitted  by  Brother  George  Jarvis,  who 
is  very  efficient,  with  his  associates,  in 
taking  care  of  the  finances  of  the  Church. 

Sixteen  million,  two-hundred  and 
eighty-seven  thousand  dollars  have  been 
spent  for  construction  of  buildings  in 
1951.  This  item,  of  course,  has  been  in- 
cluded in  the  various  headings  given 
already.  But  this  is  interesting,  and  this 
total— $9,375,000  has  come  from  Church 


General  Funds,  and  $6,912,000  from 
local  funds. 

You  will  be  interested  also  to  know 
that  there  are  now  392  buildings  under 
construction. 

The  listening  audience  will  be 
pleased  to  be  informed  that  the  Taber- 
nacle is  crowded  to  capacity.  We  have 
not  received  word  from  the  other  build- 
ings, but  I  suppose  they  also  are  filled. 

In  the  audience,  as  you  have  already 
heard,  are  mission  presidents  from  Can- 
ada, United  States,  Mexico  and  Hawaii. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


It  is  truly  a  joy  to  meet  with  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters.  Another  six 
months  have  passed  since  the  Church 
met  in  general  conference.  How  the  time 
flies  1  There  is  an  old  hymn,  now  un- 
published, which  could  be  sung  appro- 
priately: 

How  swift  the  months  have  passed  away, 

Tis  conference  again. 

And  Zion's  untold  thousands  come 

To  swell  the  joyful  strain. 

A  seat  occupied  six  months  ago  is  va- 
cant this  morning — a  voice  valiant  and 
vigorous  then  in  defense  of  the  restored 
gospel  is  silent  today.  We  miss  Dr. 
Joseph  F.  Merrill,  member  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  and  make  loving  ref- 
erence to  his  noble  character  and  dis- 
tinguished service. 

And  now,  my  dear  fellow  workers,  it 
is  with  mingled  feelings  of  gratitude, 
satisfaction,  and  apprehension  that  I 
greet  members  of  the  Church  assembled 
in  this  opening  session  of  the  122nd 
Annual  Conference. 

Gratitude 

We  are  grateful  for  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord  to  his  Church  in  all  the  world, 
and  for  the  assurance  of  his  divine 
guidance  and  inspiration.  With  deep 
gratitude  we  acknowledge  in  your  pres- 
ence, his  nearness  and  his  goodness; 
and  in  that  spirit  of  prayerful  apprecia- 
tion proclaim  that  our  souls  respond  in 


harmony  with  the  spirit  of  a  glorious 
vision  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith:  "Hear,  O  ye  heavens,  and  give 
ear,  O  earth,  and  rejoice  ye  inhabitants 
thereof,  for  the  Lord  is  God,  and  beside 
him  there  is  no  savior. 

"Great  is  his  wisdom,  marvelous  are 
his  ways,  and  the  extent  of  his  doings 
none  can  find  out. 

"His  purposes  fail  not,  neither  are 
there  any  who  can  stay  his  hand. 

"From  eternity  to  eternity  he  is  the 
same,  and  his  years  never  fail."  (D.  &  C. 
76:1-4) 

Encouragement  Justified 

It  is  a  source  of  real  encouragement  to 
contemplate  the  loyalty  and  energetic 
efforts  of  the  priesthood  of  the  Church, 
including  of  course  the  General  Author- 
ities, stake  and  ward  officers,  presi- 
dencies of  missions,  missionaries,  officers, 
and  members  of  branches  throughout 
the  world.  I  believe  I  can  say  in  truth 
that  the  standard  of  efficiency  in  mis- 
sions and  in  organized  stakes  has  never 
been  so  high.  A  hasty  glance  at  what 
quorums  and  auxiliaries  have  achieved 
during  the  past  year  will  confirm  this. 

First:  Quorums  of  the  Priesthood 

According  to  reports  that  have  been 
received,  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  of 
the  Church  (and  that  includes  all 
worthy  adult  members)  is  showing  an 
increase  in  the  number  who  pay  a  full 


12 

Friday,  April  4 

tithing,  who  observe  the  Sabbath  day, 
who  attend  sacrament  meetings,  and 
who  hold  regular  family  prayers. 

There  has  also  been  an  increase  in 
the  average  attendance  at  weekly  priest- 
hood meetings.  In  a  five-year  period 
(1947-51)  the  following  increase  is 
shown: 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


High  Priests 

Seventies 

Elders 


1947  1951 

46%  48% 

39%  44% 

18%  20% 


In  participation  in  all  phases  of  the 
Church  program,  the  following  marked 
increase  is  shown  in  the  same  five-year 
period: 

7947  1951 
High  Priests  67%  91% 
Seventies  54%  89% 

Elders  31%  70% 

Second:  Relief  Society 

A  memorandum  from  Sister  Belle  S. 
Spafford,  president  of  the  Relief  Society, 
indicates  that  there  has  been  an  increase 
in  membership  in  that  organization  of 
from  126,550  in  1950  to  132,451  in  1951, 
or  an  increase  of  5,901. 

Teachers  have  made  2,055,803  visits — 
an  increase  of  145,141  over  last  year. 

Visits  to  sick  and  homebound — 193,- 
558,  or  an  increase  of  11,200  over  last 
year. 

Choruses  of  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  are  increasing,  thus  furnishing 
the  sisters  with  an  opportunity  for  spir- 
itual expression  through  choral  singing. 

Third:  Sunday  School 

The  general  board  of  the  Deseret  Sun- 
day School  Union  has  been  emphasizing 
during  the  year  1951  the  importance  of 
proper  spiritual  teaching  in  our  Sunday 
Schools.  As  a  result  there  has  been  a 
notable  increase  in  teacher  training 
classes  and  enrolled  teacher  trainees  over 
the  previous  year. 

Reports  indicate  an  increase  of  67%  in 
the  number  of  classes  held,  and  an  in- 
crease of  13%  in  number  of  trainees. 

Better  order  and  more  reverence  in 


First  Day 

opening  exercises  and  in  class  work  has 
been  a  most  commendable  aim. 

Enlistment,  or  Sunday  School  mission- 
ary work,  has  been  stressed.  There  has 
been  an  increase  of  12%  in  the  enrol- 
ment. The  average  attendance  at  Sun- 
day Schools  has  increased  13%.  It  is 
estimated  that  about  one-third  of  the 
entire  membership  of  the  Church  now 
participate  in  Sunday  School. 

Fourth:  Y.M.M.I.A. 

In  the  183  stakes,  10  missions  report- 
ing, including  1,638  wards  and  branches, 
the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement 
Association  reports  a  total  membership 
of  104,383,  with  an  average  attendance 
of  53%. 

In  participation  in  joint  Y.M.  and 
Y.W.M.I.A.  stake  recreational  activities 
there  has  been  an  increase.  Departments 
averaged  an  increase  of  20%  to  50%,  the 
greatest  increase  coming  in  the  M  Men- 
Gleaner  and  Scout-Beehive  Departments. 

The  general  board  of  Y.M.M.I.A.  is 
endeavoring  to  have  every  boy  in  the 
ward  attend  M.I.A.  regularly,  with  a 
result  that  the  enrolment  has  grown 
from  81,253  four  years  ago  to  104,383 
this  last  year. 

Fifth:  Y.W.M.I.A. 

The  Young  Women's  Mutual  Im- 
provement Association  had  an  enrolment 
in  1951  of  110,095  as  compared  with 
105,309  the  previous  year. 

In  December  1949,  there  was  an  all- 
over  Church  average  for  the  girls  12  to 
19  years  of  age  of  48%  attendance  at 
sacrament  meetings.  This  is  a  very  com- 
mendable feature.  Also  61%  attended 
Sunday  School,  and  59%  M.I.A.  In 
December  1951,  the  average  had  in- 
creased to  53%  at  sacrament  meetings; 
63%  at  Sunday  School;  and  64%  at 
M.I.A.  This  substantial  increase  shows 
a  great  spiritual  growth,  for  it  means 
that  our  girls  are  attending  more  Church 
meetings  and  hence  gaining  a  greater 
knowledge  of  the  gospel. 

Sixth:  Primary  Association 

Last  year  marked  the  completion  of 
the  Primary  Children's  Hospital,  the 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


13 


dedicatory  service  having  been  held  on 
March  2  of  this  year. 

A  most  commendable  project  for  1951- 
52  stressed  four  phases  of  reverence  for 
boys  and  girls.   I  will  read  those: 

1.  We  will  act  as  we  should  in  our 
Heavenly  Father's  house. 

2.  We  will  greet  our  friends  quietly. 

3.  We  will  not  take  the  name  of  the 
Lord  in  vain. 

4.  We  will  respect  those  chosen  by 
our  Heavenly  Father  to  lead  us. 

Another  very  commendable  feature  is 
the  "Kindness  to  Animals  Club"  being 
sponsored  by  The  Children's  Friend.  I 
commend  that  to  your  attention,  espe- 
cially when  we  sense  the  reports  that 
we  have  had  recently  regarding  some 
sadist  young  boys  who  have  been  going 
around  with  "22's"  shooting,  just  for 
mere  sport,  the  starving  deer. 

Genealogical  Society 

In  1951  there  were  31,726  persons  who 
undertook  research  through  the  books 
of  the  library,  and  approximately  13,000 
individuals  who  used  the  records  in  the 
Archives  Department.  At  the  close  of 
1951  there  were  sixteen  million  cards  in 
the  Index  Bureau  files.  The  records  of 
two  hundred  thousand  separate  family 
units  were  examined  at  the  Index 
Bureau. 

A  total  of  between  twenty-five  and 
thirty  million  pages  of  records  were 
placed  in  the  files  of  the  microfilm  li- 
brary during  the  year  1951,  and  a  total 
of  2,334,058  lineal  feet  of  film  were  de- 
veloped in  the  laboratory  in  Salt  Lake 
City  during  1951. 

These  are  just  a  few  highlights  giving 
cause  for  satisfaction.  There  is  a  gen- 
eral response,  as  the  figures  and  reports 
indicate,  on  the  part  of  the  people  of 
the  Church  everywhere.  The  responsi- 
bilities they  carry,  the  undertakings  that 
they  adopt  and  employ  to  raise  50%  of 
the  cost  of  their  houses  of  worship  are 
most  remarkable. 

I  think  I  will  give  you  an  instance. 
Last  February  a  meeting  of  all  the  presi- 
dents of  the  stakes  of  southern  California 


was  held.  President  Waite  and  his  as- 
sociates and  the  committee  presented  to 
those  brethren  a  suggested  plan  whereby 
the  stakes  and  wards  of  that  region 
might  raise  a  million  dollars  to  assist 
in  the  construction  of  the  Los  Angeles 
Temple.  Three  weeks  later,  as  the  First 
Presidency  sat  at  the  table  in  their  regu- 
lar daily  meeting,  they  read  a  telegram 
that  came  that  morning  from  President 
Russon  of  the  Los  Angeles  Stake,  stating, 
"We  have  already  canvassed  the  wards 
in  our  stake,  and  they  have  subscribed 
256%  of  their  quota."  And  while  we 
were  reading  that,  the  telephone  rang 
and  President  Waite  of  the  South  Los 
Angeles  Stake  at  the  other  end  said,  "I 
thought  you  would  like  to  know  that  the 
Los  Angeles  Stake  has  gone  over  the  top 
256%.  We  were  a  week  later  starting 
our  canvass  in  the  South  Los  Angeles 
Stake,  so  we  have  reached  only  10%  of 
the  people,  but  we  have  90%  of  the 
quota  subscribed  from  the  10%."  Last 
evening  the  presidents  from  those  stakes 
met  with  the  First  Presidency  and  re- 
ported $1,666,000.00  subscribed,  and 
more  subscriptions  coming  in. 

Now  that  is  indicative  of  the  spirit 
that  animates  the  members  of  the 
Church  in  their  efforts  to  further  the 
interest  of  establishing  the  kingdom  of 
God.  Well,  we  commend  you  and  bless 
you,  and  God  will  bless  you. 

Causes  of  Apprehension 

But  now,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  have 
cause  for  apprehension.  I  refer  to  the 
efforts  to  deprive  man  of  his  free  agency 
— to  steal  from  the  individual  his  liberty. 

Next  to  life  itself  free  agency  is  the 
greatest  gift  of  God  to  man. 

The  two  most  important  documents 
affecting  the  destiny  of  America  are  the 
Declaration  of  Independence  and  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States.  Both 
these  immortal  papers  relate  primarily 
to  the  freedom  of  the  individual. 

Founded  upon  that  principle  of  free 
enterprise  fostered  by  these  documents, 
the  United  States  of  America  in  less 
than  two  centuries  has  achieved  a  great- 
ness that  exceeds  that  of  any  other  coun- 
try in  the  world. 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  4 

The  deep  concern  of  every  loyal  citi- 
zen regarding  this  threatened  loss  of  our 
freedom  has  been  well  expressed  by  a 
Mr.  Fred  G.  Clark,  Chairman  of  the 
American  Economic  Foundation,  where- 
in he  expresses  the  fear  that  the  code 
of  the  people  is  replacing  the  code  of 
God.  Here  are  his  own  words.  I  shall 
tell  you  when  I  end  the  quotation:  "The 
American  giant  towers  over  the  world 
in  its  physical  strength,  greater  than 
that  of  all  the  rest  of  the  nations  put 
together. 

"But  something  is  wrong  with  Amer- 
ica. 

"At  this  high  moment  of  history  when 
the  task  of  world  leadership  has  been 
thrust  upon  us,  we  stand  confused,  re- 
luctant, hesitant,  and  ineffectual. 

"We  are  no  longer  certain  what  we 
stand  for,  and  this,  I  believe,  is  because 
we  have  forgotten  the  circumstances 
surrounding  the  birth  of  our  nation.  .  .  . 

"For  decades  it  has  been  popular  in 
America  for  the  cynical  intellectuals  to 
sneer  and  scoff  at  what  we  call  the  tra- 
ditions of  Americanism. 

"The  instruments  of  this  sabotage 
were  words  and  thoughts  —  plausible 
half-truths,  sly  appeals  to  that  spark  of 
larceny  that  lurks  in  every  human  heart, 
subtle  suggestions  of  an  atheistic  nature, 
and  the  careful  nurturing  of  a  patroniz- 
ing attitude  toward  everything  America 
has  held  to  be  fine  and  sacred. 

"The  people  who  planted  these  words 
and  thoughts  may  have  been  either 
stupid  or  vicious,  fools  or  foreign  agents, 
smart-alecs,  or  smart  organizers. 

"What  they  were  does  not  now  mat- 
ter: the  thing  that  does  matter  is  to 
counteract  what  they  have  done. 

"Everybody  in  every  position  of  leader- 
ship has  to  get  into  this  act  because  the 
damage  has  affected  every  phase  of  our 
life. 

"The  places  in  which  this  sabotage 
occurred  were  the  schools,  the  churches, 
the  communist-dominated  labor  halls, 
the  lecture  platforms,  the  motion  pic- 
tures, the  stage,  the  pages  of  our  news- 
papers and  magazines,  and  the  radio. 
Every  means  of  communication  has  been 
utilized  against  us.  .  .  . 


First  Day 

"The  man  (or  nation)  who  has  a 
plan — a  way  of  life — in  which  he  be- 
lieves, has  mental  security. 

"To  destroy  this  security,  one  must 
destroy  that  man's  faith  in  his  plan. 

"Reliance  on  a  code  of  life  which,  if 
held  in  common  with  one's  fellow  men, 
brings  peace  of  mind,  develops  the  abil- 
ities of  the  group.  .  .  . 

"The  degree  to  which  the  American 
code  of  life  has  been  weakened  can  best 
be  demonstrated  by  simply  calling  at- 
tention to  the  degree  to  which  the 
foundation  of  that  code  has  been  weak- 
ened. 

"Many  people  become  self-conscious 
when  discussing  this  foundation:  I  am 
not  one  of  those  people. 

"That  foundation  (and  of  this  there 
cannot  be  the  slightest  shadow  of  a 
doubt)  is  made  up  of  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments and  the  Golden  Rule. 

"Within  this  moral  code,  we  have  a 
complete  way  of  life. 

"Acceptance  of  these  precepts  takes 
care  of  every  phase  of  human  life — 
spiritual,  political,  social,  and  eco- 
nomic. .  .  . 

"America  was  a  nation  of  people  who 
had  faith  in  their  political  and  economic 
systems  because  they  had  faith  in  God, 
and  had  built  those  systems  around  the 
teachings  of  God. 

"Every  collectivist  from  Karl  Marx  to 
Stalin  has  agreed  that  faith  in  God  must 
be  destroyed  before  socialism  can  take 
over. 

"Therefore,  it  was  obvious  that  the 
problem  of  sabotaging  America's  faith 
in  America  was  the  problem  of  trans- 
ferring the  people's  faith  in  God  to 
faith  in  the  State. 

"That  thing  called  morality  in  pol- 
itics, business,  and  private  contracts,  had 
to  be  broken  down. 

"To  an  increasing  extent  the  people 
have  come  to  look  upon  morality  as  an 
old-fashioned  superstition. 

"Religion  has  for  many  church  mem- 
bers become  a  safe  way  of  dying  rather 
than  a  good  way  of  living." 

I  commend  his  entire  speech,  from 
which  I  have  taken  these  extracts. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


15 


Add  to  this  threatening  upset  in  na- 
tional standards  the  increasing  tendency 
to  abandon  ideals  that  constitute  the 
foundation  of  the  American  home,  and 
you  will  agree  with  me  that  there  is 
cause  for  apprehension. 

Now  what  shall  we  do  about  it?  That 
concerns  us. 

When  Paul  was  a  prisoner  in  Rome, 
he  sent  a  letter  to  Timothy,  saying  in 
substance: 

"Preach  the  word;  be  instant  in  sea- 
son, out  of  season;  reprove,  rebuke,  ex- 
hort with  all  longsuffering  and  doctrine. 

"For  the  time  will  come  when  they 
will  not  endure  sound  doctrine;  but 
after*  their  own  lusts  shall  they  heap 
to  themselves  teachers,  having  itching 
ears; 

"And  they  shall  turn  away  their  ears 
from  the  truth,  and  shall  be  turned  unto 
fables."  (II  Timothy  4:2-4.) 

It  is  as  important  today  as  when  Paul 
wrote  that  farewell  message  to  Timothy 
that  officers  and  teachers  in  the  Church 
"preach  the  word;  be  instant — that  is, 
eager,  earnest — in  season  and  out  of 
season." 

Today,  in  the  midst  of  the  world's 
perplexity,  there  should  be  no  question 
in  the  mind  of  any  true  Latter-day 
Saint  as  to  what  we  shall  preach.  The 
answer  is  as  clear  as  the  noonday  sun 
in  a  cloudless  sky. 

In  the  year  1830,  there  was  given  to 
the  people  of  this  land  and  of  the  world, 
a  divine  plan  whereby  individuals  can 
find  security  and  peace  of  mind  and 
live  in  harmonious  accord  with  their 
fellow  beings.  In  all  man's  theories  and 
experiments  since  history  began,  human 
intelligence  has  never  devised  a  system 
which,  when  applied  to  the  needs  of 
humanity,  can  even  approach  this  plan 
in  effectiveness. 

In  simple  words,  then,  this  is  the 
Word  which  we  should  preach  —  the 
gospel  plan  of  salvation. 

Faith  in  God 

The  founders  of  this  great  republic 
had  faith  in  the  economic  and  political 
welfare  of  this  country  because  they 
had  faith  in  God.  Today  it  is  not  un- 


common to  note  an  apologetic  attitude 
on  the  part  of  men  when  they  refer  to 
the  need  of  God  governing  in  the  af- 
fairs of  men.  Indeed,  as  has  already 
been  said,  the  success  of  communism 
depends  largely  upon  the  substitution  of 
the  belief  in  God  by  belief  in  the  su- 
premacy of  the  state. 

Preach  in  season  and  out  of  season 
belief  in  God  the  Eternal  Father,  in  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Bear  witness  that  "God  and  the  un- 
seen world,"  to  quote  a  leading  thinker, 
"are  not  mere  objects  of  surmise.  .  .  . 
Religion  standing  on  the  known  expe- 
rience of  the  race  makes  one  bold  and 
glorious  affirmation.  She  asserts  that 
this  power  that  makes  for  truth,  for 
beauty,  and  for  goodness  is  not  less  per- 
sonal than  we.  This  leap  of  faith  is 
justified  because  God  cannot  be  less  than 
the  greatest  of  his  works.  .  .  .  When, 
therefore,  we  call  God  personal  we  have 
interpreted  him  by  the  loftiest  symbol 
we  have.  He  may  be  infinitely  more. 
He  cannot  be  less.  When  we  call  God 
a  spirit,  we  use  the  clearest  lens  we 
have  to  look  at  the  infinite."  (Charles 
Dinsmore  of  Yale.) 

Second:  Latter-day  Saints  proclaim 
that  fundamental  in  this  gospel  plan  is 
the  sacredness  of  the  individual,  that 
God's  work  and  glory  is  "to  bring  to  pass 
the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of 
man." 

Under  this  concept,  it  is  a  great  impo- 
sition, if  indeed  not  a  crime,  for  any 
government,  any  labor  union,  or  any 
other  organization  to  deny  a  man  the 
right  to  speak,  to  worship,  and  to  work. 

Third:  Preach  that  the  plan  involves 
the  belief  that  governments  were  insti- 
tuted of  God  for  the  benefit  of  man. 
Man  was  not  born  for  the  benefit  of  the 
state.  Preach  that  no  government  can 
exist  in  peace,  and  I  quote  from  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  except  such 
laws  are  framed  and  held  inviolate,  as 
will  secure  to  each  individual  the  "free 
exercise  of  conscience,  the  right  and  con- 
trol of  property,  and  the  protection  of 
life." 

Fourth:  Preach  the  sacredness  off  am- 


'  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


m 

Friday,  April  4 

ily  tics — the  perpetuation  of  the  family 
as  the  cornerstone  of  society.  • 

Fifth:  Proclaim  the  necessity  of  hon- 
esty and  loyalty,  doing  an  honest  day's 
work  for  an  honest  day's  pay.  Preach 
that  honesty  in  government  is  essential 
to  the' perpetuation  and  stability  of  our 
government  as  it  is  necessary  to  the  sta- 
bility of  character  in  the  individual. 
"We  believe  in  being  honest,  true, 
chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in  do- 
ing good  to,  all  men. .}  .  .  If  there  is 
anything  virtuous,  lovely,  or  of  good 
report,  or  praiseworthy,  we  seek  after 
these  things." 

To- summarize:  Let  us  be  instant  in 
season,  and  out  of  season,  declaring  that 
a  kind  and  loving  Heavenly  Father  is 
as  ready  and  eager  today  as  ever  to  bless 
and  to  guide  all  his  children  who  will 
sincerely  seek  him,  and  I  bear  you  wit- 
ness to  that  truth.  i:. 

Proclaim  that  his  Beloved  Son,  the 
Redeemer  and  Savior  of  mankind,  stands 
at  the  head  of  his  Church  that  bears  his 
name — that  he  guides  and  inspires  those 
who  are  authorized  to  represent  him  here 
on  earth — authorized  by  the  priesthood 
when  heavenly  messengers  bestowed  up- 


First  Day 

on  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  others 
associated  with  him  divine  authority. 

Preach  that  the  responsibility  of  de- 
claring this  plan  of  life,  this  way  of 
life,  this  plan  of  salvation  rests  upon 
the  entire  membership  of  the  Church, 
but  most  particularly  upon  those  who 
"have  been  ordained  to  the  priesthood 
and  who  have  been  called  as  leaders 
and  servants  of  the  people. 

To  them  today,  as  Paul  said  to 
Timothy,  we  give  the  admonition: 

"Preach  the  word;  be  instant  in  sea- 
son, out  of  season;  reprove,  rebuke, 
exhort  with  all  longsuffering  and  doc- 
trine." 

» 

In  Zion  let  God's  name  be  praised 

Who  has  a  feast  prepared, 

The  glorious  gospel  standard  raised, 

The  ancient  faith  restored. 

Swift  heralds,  the  glad  news  to  bear 

O'er  land  and  ocean  fly; 

And  to  the  wondering  world  disclose 

The  message  from  on  high. 

God  give  us  power  to  fulfil  this  destiny 
of  the  Church,  and  to  perform  our 
duties,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


President  McKay,  President  Richards, 
President  Clark,  my  dear  brothers 
and  sisters,  and  friends: 
This  is  always  a  very  difficult  assign- 
ment for  me,  one  which  nearly  over- 
whelms me,  and  I  do  feel  very  weak 
and  very  humble  today.  Personally,  I 
am  very  grateful  for  the  beautiful 
prayer  that  was  offered  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  conference.  Prayers  always 
give  one  needed  strength.  Yes,  "Prayer 
is  the  : soul's  sincere  desire,  uttered  or 
unexpressed."  Surely  today,  prayer  is 
my  soul's  sincere  desire. 

We  have  all  been  greatly  touched, 
blessed,  and  inspired  by  the  words  of 
tlit:  President  of  the  Church,  President 
David  O:  McKay,  a  prophet  of  ■  the  true 
and  Living  God. 
The:  Spirit  of  the  Lord:  will  be  at  this 


conference  in  rich  and  great  abundance 
if  the  thousands  who  assemble  here  can 
come  with  their  hearts  turned  toward 
our  Father  in  heaven. 

Yesterday,  in  a  meeting  in  the  temple 
of  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church,  there  was  in  evidence  a  beauti- 
ful and  great  spirit,  one  that  I  ques- 
tion whether  anyone  can  absolutely  and 
accurately  describe  or  explain.  It  was 
the  spirit  of  peace  and  love  and 
harmony  and  unity.  Yes,  that  was  the 
spirit  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  ' 

I  know  that  there  is  great  love  and 
harmony  and  unity  among  the  breth- 
ren of  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church.  No  one  should  ever  infer  that 
there  is  any  lack  of  unity  or  harmony  or 
love  or  brotherhood  in  the  Church. 
I  only  wish  that  all  of  us,  one  to  another, 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


17 


could  exhibit  the  same  friendly  love  and 
unity  that  we  saw  in  existence  and  that 
we  experienced  yesterday. 

There  is  no  place  in  the  Church  for 
lack  of  harmony,  or  lack  of  unity;  there 
is  no  room  for  criticism  in  the  Church. 
You  may  not  agree  with  what  indi- 
viduals do  or  say,  and  none  of  us  pro- 
fesses to  be  perfect.  We  shall  be  grate- 
ful to  you  if  you  will  come  to  us  and 
tell  us  of  our  shortcomings.  But  I  am 
sure  that  you  should  not  criticize  those 
who  serve  in  your  bishoprics  and  stake 
presidencies,  your  auxiliaries  and  your 
quorum  offices.  I  remember  a  state- 
ment that  my  little  old  grandfather 
once  made  to  me,  and  I  shall  always 
try  to  remember  it,  when  he  said,  "It 
does  not  take  much  brains  to  criticize." 
I  am  sure  if  we  shall  only  stop  to  think 
of  that,  we  will  be  more  careful  when 
we  exhibit  any  degree  of  disunity. 

I  confess  that  I  have  humbly  prayed 
to  the  Lord  to  forgive  me  for  my  short- 
comings and  imperfections.  I  have 
prayed  to  him  daily  to  help  me  when  my 
call  should  come  to  stand  before  you. 
I  prayed,  first,  because  I  believe  in 
prayer,  and  second,  because  I  need  the 
blessings  of  the  Lord  as  one  of  the 
weakest  among  you. 

The  beautiful  music  today  has  caused 
us  to  put  ourselves  in  tune  with  the 
spirit  of  the  Lord,  that  we  could  come 
here  and  be  truly  strengthened  and 
built  up  in  our  faith.  Yes,  faith  in 
God  is  a  requisite  for  the  salvation  of 
each  of  us.  Oh,  Israel,  trust  thou  in 
the  Lord,  he  is  thy  help  and  thy  shieldl 
A  testimony  of  Jesus  Christ  should  be 
the  desire  of  every  individual  here.  It 
may  be  necessary  for  each  of  us  to  make 
a  right  about  change  in  our  own  life 
and  turn  our  energy  and  our  thoughts 
and  our  ambitions  to  our  Heavenly 
Father.  It  may  be  necessary  for  a  na- 
tional crusade  so  that  we  can  turn  back 
to  God,  our  Father;  this  may  be  an  im- 
mediate essential,  because  of  our  ap- 
parent drifting,  as  individuals  and  as  a 
nation,  away  from  the  teachings  of  our 
Father  in  heaven. 

The  fear  of  the  Lord  is  the  beginning 
of  great  wisdom.  A  good  understanding 


have  all  they  that  do  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  God.  Faith  in  God,  our 
Eternal  Father,  and  in  his  Son,  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  the 
Savior  of  mankind,  is  essential  to  every 
one  of  us  if  we  are  to  have  happiness 
and  partake  of  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord. 

It  has  been  an  inspiration  to  me  to 
travel  around  the  Church  and  through- 
out the  wards  and  stakes  and  see  these 
beautiful  new  meetinghouses  being 
built  and  to  see  the  enthusiasm  and  the 
contribution  of  the  members  of  the 
Church.  The  Lord  has  truly  blessed  us. 

Sometime  ago  I  was  in  a  ward,  and  I 
met  the  bishopric  and  their  wives.  It 
was  not  a  large  ward  nor  a  rich  ward. 
The  people  were  trying  to  raise  their 
portion  to  build  a  meetinghouse.  They 
were  having  some  difficulty.  But  a 
member  of  the  bishopric  told  us  that 
he  and  his  wife  decided  to  kill  one  of 
their  cows.  They  did  not  have  many; 
they  were  not  in  the  dairy  business;  but 
they  killed  one  of  their  choicest  cows 
and  had  it  slaughtered  and  the  meat 
cut  up.  They  made  that  meat  into 
sandwiches  and  sold  those  sandwiches 
at  basketball  games  and  other  func- 
tions to  raise  money  so  they  could  build 
a  meetinghouse  where  they  could  as- 
semble and  renew  their  covenants  with 
the  Lord  and  worship  God,  their  Eternal 
Father,  according  to  the  dictates  of  their 
own  consciences. 

I  heard  a  man  bear  testimony  re- 
cently of  a  time  when  he  had  been 
out  on  strike  for  two  or  three  months; 
he  was  not  a  rich  man;  he  had  a  large 
family;  and  his  savings  were  nearly  all 
gone.  He  did  not  have  a  job.  One 
Sunday  afternoon  two  of  the  brethren 
of  his  ward  came  to  his  house,  since 
they  were  trying  to  finish  their  meeting- 
house, and  they  said  to  him,  "We  are 
here  to  collect  money  to  help  finish 
our  meetinghouse."  They  did  not  know 
his  circumstances,  and  they  said,  "Your 
assessment  is  forty  dollars." 

He  smiled,  went  in  the  bedroom, 

fulled  out  a  drawer,  and  there  was 
)rty  dollars,  his  last  forty  dollars.  He 
looked  at  it  and  wondered  if  Tie  should 


18 

Friday.  April  4 

go  back  in  and  tell  the  brethren  that 
he  would  pay  half  of  it  now,  or  if  he 
should  go  back  and  beg  off  and  tell 
them  that  he  would  pay  part  of  it  later; 
but  then  the  thought  came  to  him  that 
he  and  his  family  had  been  blessed 
abundantly,  and  he  took  the  forty  dol- 
lars, buckled  up  his  belt,  went  out 
into  the  room  smiling,  and  said  to 
the  two  brethren,  "Here,  I  am  glad 
to  give  you  my  assessment  of  forty 
dollars." 

They  gave  him  a  receipt,  not  know- 
ing the  sacrifice  that  he  had  made, 
and  bade  him  good-bye.  Of  course,  he 
wondered  how  he  was  going  to  meet 
his  current  bills,  but  he  is  a  man  who 
prays  diligently.  And,  of  course,  that 
night,  in  his  family  prayer,  he  asked 
the  Lord  to  open  up  the  way  where 
material  things  could  come  to  him,  so 
that  he  could  provide  for  his  family. 
He  testified  that  the  next  morning  be- 
fore breakfast  a  stranger  knocked  at  his 
door  and  introduced  himself  to  him. 
They  had  never  heard  of  each  other 
nor  met  before,  he  said,  but  this  man 
introduced  himself  and  said,  "I  have 
learned  that  you  are  a  mechanic.  Can 
you  operate  one  of  our  machines  (and 
named  it)?"  He  said  he  thought  he 
could.  Then  the  stranger  said,  "We 
would  like  to  employ  you;  we  need 
such  a  man  as  you.  The  job  isn't  in 
this  community,  but  we  will  have  our 
company  vans  move  you  to  the  ad- 
joining community  where  we  need  your 
services.  We  will  furnish  you  with  a 
modern  house." 

He  was  so  anxious  for  that  job  that 
he  hardly  knew  how  to  answer  him. 
But  he  put  him  off  for  a  moment  and 
said,  "Let  me  go  into  the  kitchen  and 
ask  my  wife  how  she  feels."  He  went 
in  there  and  told  his  wife  of  the  visit 
of  this  gentleman  who,  by  the  way,  was 
not  a  member  of  the  Church. 

He  rushed  back  to  the  man  and  said, 
"Yes,  we  will  consider  that  position. 
Would  you  mind  telling  us  the  salary?" 

The  man  said,  "No,  I  hesitated  doing 
that  because  I  wanted  to  know  if  you 
would  really  like  the  job." 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

He  said,  "Yes,  we  would  like  it  very 
much." 

And  the  stranger  then  told  him  the 
salary,  it  was  twice  as  much,  nearly, 
as  he  had  ever  been  able  to  make  before 
in  his  life. 

He  accepted  the  position;  they  shook 
hands;  and  the  man  said,  "We  will 
make  that  retroactive  to  the  beginning 
of  the  year." 

Well,  some  people  may  call  that  a 
coincidence,  but  not  that  good  brother. 
That  was  the  blessing  of  the  Lord  that 
came  to  him  because  of  his  faithful- 
ness. 

These  beautiful  new  meetinghouses 
will  be  a  power  of  strength  to  the 
membership  of  the  Church.  There  are 
no  such  things  as  great  sacrifices  in 
this  Church.  There  may  be  great  re- 
sponsibilities, but  with  them  come  great 
blessings.  These  meetinghouses  will  be 
a  great  value  to  you  and  your  children, 
if  you  will  only  go  there  and  partake 
of  the  sacrament.  Sometimes  I  wonder 
if  our  people  really  understand  and 
appreciate  the  value  of  the  sacrament. 
Some  of  our  wards  are  satisfied  with 
20%  and  25%  attendance  at  sacrament 
meeting.  With  these  new,  beautiful 
meetinghouses,  we  ought  not  to  be 
satisfied  with  less  than  50%  attendance 
at  sacrament  meetings. 

Oh,  parents,  if  we  would  only  take 
our  children  and  go  to  sacrament  meet- 
ing! If  there  were  nothing  else  there 
but  the  singing  of  those  hymns,  and  the 
prayer,  and  the  beautiful  administra- 
tion of  the  sacrament,  we  would  be 
abundantly  blessed  and  strengthened, 
if  we  would  assemble  in  the  house  of 
the  Lord  on  his  holy  day  and  partake  of 
the  sacrament  and  renew  our  covenants 
with  the  Lord. 

And  when  we  partake  of  the  sacra- 
ment, we  make  three  covenants  with 
the  Lord:  First,  we  covenant  with  the 
Lord  that  we  will  take  upon  us  the 
name  of  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ.  And 
it  means  that  we  will  endeavor  by  our 
works  and  our  deeds  to  be  in  accord 
with  him,  whose  name  we  have  taken 
upon  us.  Second,  we  make  a  cove- 
nant  that   we  will   remember  him, 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


19 


Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  who  died 
that  we  might  live;  to  call  to  our  mind 
the  sacrifice  and  the  suffering,  that  we 
remember  his  body,  and  that  we  re- 
member his  blood  that  was  shed  for 
us,  that  we  might  have  eternal  life  and 
the  remission  of  our  sins.  And  then 
we  covenant,  and  we  promise  that  we 
will  keep  the  commandments  of  God, 
our  Eternal  Father. 

Oh,  if  we  could  only  accept  the 
blessings  of  the  sacrament  and  partake  of 
it  regularly,  filling  those  meetings  to 
overflowing,  I  believe  we  would  do  bet- 
ter. I  think  we  would  be  more  blessed.  I 
think  we  could  overcome  our  short- 
comings more  successfully  than  where 
we  stay  away  weeks  and  weeks  without 
the  sacrament.  Every  Latter-day  Saint 
should  assemble  there  on  the  holy  day 
and  take  his  children  there  for  the 
sacrament. 

Recently  I  read  a  statement  by  the 
American  Legion  and  its  auxiliary,  and 
I  thought  it  was  a  very  worthy  aim: 

"Finding  their  way  back  to  Almighty  God 
and  his  ideals,"  and  an  aim  to  "attend 
Church,  not  only  today,  but  every  Sabbath 
day." 

"Yes,  parents,  it  would  be  well  if  we 
would  not  let  a  Sunday  go  by  unless  we 
assemble  in  our  houses  of  worship  which 
have  been  dedicated  to  the  Lord,  and  there 
renew  our  covenants  with  our  Father  in 
heaven." 

Oh,  we  may  have  to  change  our  atti- 
tude a  little  bit  about  the  Sabbath  day, 
and  really  keep  it  holy.  We  may  have 
to  read  those  beautiful  prayers  again. 
If  we  would  only  read  them  and  follow 
the  prayer  in  our  sacrament  meeting, 
I  am  sure  we  would  be  glad  and  grate- 
ful that  we  have  been  in  attendance. 

I  hope,  fathers,  that  we  can  be  close 
to  our  sons,  yes,  that  we  can  help  them 
increase  their  faith,  that  their  testi- 
monies may  be  strong.  There  are  some 
today  who  would  shake  the  faith  of  a 
boy  or  girl.  There  are  some  who  would 
tend  to  destroy,  perhaps  innocently, 
but  there  are  those  who  profess  to  know 
more  than  the  boy  who  has  faith,  and 
therefore,  as  fathers  and  mothers,  we 
should  be  close  to  our  sons,  so  that 


no  one  will  get  an  opportunity  to  shock 
their  faith. 

A  father  just  handed  me  a  letter  that 
he  received  from  his  son  and  I  want  to 
read  it  to  you.  He  received  it  just  before 
Christmas. 

Thanksgiving  is  just  over,  Father,  and 
Christmas  will  soon  be  here,  and  it  has 
turned  my  thoughts  toward  you  and  my 
home,  but  the  thing  that  has  been  most 
in  my  mind  is  the  gratitude  that  flows 
in  my  veins  for  the  wonderful  family  that 
I  have  at  home,  and  for  the  teachings  that 
you  have  given  me.  Remember,  Father, 
when  you  and  I  worked  side  by  side, 
and  while  working,  you  were  constantly 
giving  me  advice.  I  never  said  very  much 
about  the  things  you  told  me  nor  ex- 
pressed my  gratitude  which  I  had  for 
your  companionship.  I  was  more  or  less 
hoping  that  you  could  tell  the  way  I  felt 
by  my  actions  and  by  my  conversation. 
But  I  guess,  Dad,  my  actions  proved  to 
you  just  the  opposite  sometimes.  But  now, 
Father,  I  want  you  to  know  that  all  you 
have  taught  me  and  all  that  you  have  done 
for  me  have  not  been  taken  as  just  some- 
thing you  owed  me.  Quite  the  contrary, 
Father.  I  am  so  happy  that  you  have 
given  me  the  chance  to  enjoy  the  beauties 
of  this  world.  I  am  grateful  for  the  testi- 
mony that  you  have  given  me,  and  espe- 
cially I  am  grateful  for  being  able  to  come 
on  this  mission.  This  is  one  of  the  many 
things  I  will  never  be  able  to  pay  you  for, 
Dad.  I  have  never  seen  such  a  change 
come  over  a  person  as  I  saw  in  you  when 
Mother  passed  away.  But  I  am  sure  the 
change  was  not  in  you-  but  in  me.  I  found 
that  you  weren't  the  person  I  thought  you 
were.  You  had  seemed  cross  with  me, 
sometimes,  and  I  misunderstood  it.  I  don't 
see  now,  how  I  could  ever  have  thought 
any  different  of  you,  Father.  I  have  a 
great  love  and  affection  for  you,  not  only 
as  my  father,  but  as  my  companion.  I 
guess  I  am  going  to  have  to  get  new 
glasses,  Dad;  I  can't  write  this  letter  with- 
out my  eyes  getting  full  and  blurry  with 
tears. 

Yes,  boys  will  be  grateful  for  the  faith 
that  we  help  them  maintain,  for  the 
testimonies  that  they  have.  I  want  to 
bear  you  my  testimony.  I  know  that 
God  lives.  I  know  that  he  has  heard 
and  answered  my  prayers.  I  acknowl- 
edge his  hand  because  without  his  help 


20 

Friday,  April  4 

I  could  have  done  little  or  nothing.  I 
know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet 
of  God.  I  know  that  he  went  into 
the  Sacred  Grove,  and  I  know  that  God 
and  his  Son  appeared  to  him,  and  spoke 
to  him,  and  I  know  he  received  heaven- 
ly messengers  on  many  occasions.  I 
know  that  President  David  O.  McKay 
is  a  living  prophet  of  God,  a  spiritual 
prophet.  I  know  that  these  men  are 
prophets,  seers,  and  revelators,  and  serv- 
ants of  the  true  and  Living  God.  I  know 
that  he  inspires  them  and  reveals  his 
messages  to  them.  Sometimes,  I  will 
admit,  it  is  hard  for  us  to  be  as  humble 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

as  we  might.  We  do  have  to  make  an 
adjustment  in  our  lives,  often,  so  that 
we  can  be  in  tune  with  our  Father  in 
heaven. 

May  God  bless  us  that  we  may  be 
grateful  for  our  membership  in  this 
Church,  that  we  may  have  his  Spirit 
always  to  be  with  us,  I  humbly  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  and  the  congregation 
arose  and  joined  in  singing  one  verse 
of  the  hymn,  "For  the  Strength  of  the 
Hills  We  Bless  Thee." 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I pray  for  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to 
accompany  my  remarks.  My  broth- 
ers and  sisters,  my  heart  goes  out 
to  you  who  are  attempting  to  live  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord.  The 
"strength  of  the  hills"  is  with  you. 

It  is  a  great  joy  to  me,  and  my  heart 
is  overflowing  with  gratitude,  to  shake 
your  hands,  to  look  into  your  smiling 
faces,  and  to  feel  your  spirit. 

We  heard  this  morning  that  seventeen 
thousand  newly  converted  people  are 
today  enjoying  the  blessings  of  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ,  are  pointed  in  the 
right  direction,  and  are  on  their  way 
toward  eternal  life  and  exaltation.  Ten 
thousand  foreign  and  stake  mission- 
aries have  been  instrumental  in  bring- 
ing the  message  to  them.  These  new 
members  are  here  because  these  thou- 
sands have  borne  witness  and  testimony 
to  them. 

To  all  the  millions  of  good,  honorable 
people  who  live  among  us,  we  extend 
an  invitation  to  investigate  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  for  it  is  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation  and  to  exaltation. 
It  is  the  pearl  of  greatest  price.  It  is 
the  most  glorious,  the  most  far-reaching, 
the  most  wonderful  program  in  the 
world.  It  is  not  conceived  by  men,  but 
is  conceived  by  God,  our  Eternal  Father. 

Sometime  ago  a  sister  said  to  me, 
"Why  is  it,  Brother  Kimball,  that  those 


who  do  the  least  in  the  building  of  the 
kingdom  seem  to  prosper  most?  We  drive 
a  Ford;  our  neighbors  drive  a  Cadillac. 
We  observe  the  Sabbath  and  attend  our 
meetings;  they  play  golf,  hunt,  fish,  and 
play.  We  abstain  from  the  forbidden 
while  they  eat,  drink,  and  are  merry 
and  are  unrestrained.  We  pay  much  as 
tithing  and  for  other  Church  donations; 
they  have  their  entire  large  income  to 
lavish  upon  themselves.  We  are  tied 
home  with  our  large  family  of  small 
children,  often  ill;  they  are  totally  free 
for  social  life — to  dine  and  to  dance. 
We  wear  cottons  and  woolens,  and  I 
wear  a  three-season  coat,  but  they  wear 
silks  and  costly  apparel,  and  she  wears  a 
mink  coat.  Our  meagre  income  is  al- 
ways strained  and  never  seems  adequate 
for  necessities,  while  their  wealth  seems 
inexhaustible  and  wholly  adequate  for 
every  luxury  obtainable.  And  yet  the 
Lord  promises  blessings  to  the  faithful! 
It  seems  to  me  that  it  does  not  pay  to 
live  the  gospel — that  the  proud  and  the 
covenant  breakers  are  the  ones  who 
prosper." 

Then  I  said  to  her:  "As  I  remember, 
Job  in  his  great  distress  made  a  state- 
ment which  parallels  yours." 

But  Job  answered  [Zophar]  and  said.  .  .  . 
Wherefore  do  the  wicked  live,  become 

old,  yea,  are  mighty  in  power?  ■ 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


21 


Their  seed  is  established  in  their  sight 
with  them,  and  their  offspring  before  their 
eyes. 

Their  houses  are  safe  from  fear,  neither 
is  the  rod  of  God  upon  them. 

Their  bull  gendereth,  and  faileth  not; 
their  cow  calveth  and  casteth  not  her  calf. 

They  send  forth  their  little  ones  like  a 
flock,  and  their  children  dance.  .  .  . 

They  spend  their  days  in  wealth,  and  in 
a  moment  go  down  to  the  grave. 

Therefore  they  say  unto  God,  Depart 
from  us;  for  we  desire  not  the  knowledge 
of  thy  ways. 

What  is  the  Almighty,  that  we  should 
serve  him?  and  what  profit  should  we  have, 
if  we  pray  unto  him?  (Job  21:1,  7-11,  13-15.) 

And  the  Prophet  Jeremiah  asked  the 
same  question: 

Righteous  art  thou,  O  Lord,  when  I  plead 
with  thee:  yet  let  me  talk  with  thee  of  thy 
judgments:  Wherefore  doth  the  way  of  the 
wicked  prosper?  wherefore  are  all  they 
happy  that  deal  very  treacherously?  .  .  . 

How  long  shall  the  land  mourn,  and  the 
herbs  of  every  field  wither,  for  the  wicked- 
ness of  them  that  dwell  therein?  (Jeremiah 
12:1,  4.) 

And  again  Malachi  quotes  the  Lord 
as  saying: 

Your  words  have  been  stout  against  me, 
saith  the  Lord.  Yet  ye  say,  What  have 
we  spoken  so  much  against  thee? 

Ye  have  said,  It  is  vain  to  serve  God:  and 
what  profit  is  it  that  we  have  kept  his 
ordinance,  and  that  we  have  walked  mourn- 
fully before  the  Lord  of  hosts? 

And  now  we  call  the  proud  happy;  yea, 
they  that  work  wickedness  are  set  up;  yea, 
they  that  tempt  God  are  even  delivered. 
(Malachi  3:13-15.) 

The  parable  of  the  wheat  and  tares 
is  the  Lord's  answer: 

.  .  .  The  kingdom  of  heaven  is  likened  unto 
a  man  which  sowed  good  seed  in  his  field: 

But  while  men  slept,  his  enemy  came 
and  sowed  tares  among  the  wheat,  and 
went  his  way. 

But  when  the  blade  was  sprung  up,  and 
brought  forth  fruit,  then  appeared  the  tares 
also. 

So  the  servants  of  the  householder  came 
and  said  unto  him,  Sir,  didst  not  thou  sow 
good  seed  in  thy  field?  from  whence  then 
hath  it  tares? 


He  said  unto  them,  An  enemy  hath  done 
this.  The  servants  said  unto  him,  Wilt 
thou  then  that  we  go  and  gather  them  up? 

But  he  said,  Nay;  lest  while  ye  gather  up 
the  tares,  ye  root  up  also  the  wheat  with 
them. 

Let  both  grow  together  until  the  harvest: 
and  in  the  time  of  harvest  I  will  say  to 
the  reapers,  Gather  ye  together  first  the 
tares,  and  bind  them  in  bundles  to  burn 
them:  but  gather  the  wheat  into  my  barn. 
(Matt.  13:24-30.) 

And  the  interpretation  of  the  parable 
given  by  the  Lord  himself  makes  clear 
that  the  books  are  not  balanced  daily 
but  at  the  harvesttime.  The  time  of 
reckoning  is  as  sure  as  is  the  passage 
of  time  and  the  coming  of  eternity.  All 
who  live  shall  eventually  stand  before 
the  bar  of  God  to  be  judged  according 
to  their  works.  The  final  assignments 
will  constitute  rewards  and  punishments 
according  to  deserts.  Read  Malachi 
further: 

Then  they  that  feared  the  Lord  spake 
often  one  to  another:  and  the  Lord  heark- 
ened, and  heard  it,  and  a  book  of  remem- 
brance was  written  before  him  for  them 
that  feared  the  Lord,  and  that  thought  upon 
his  name. 

And  they  shall  be  mine,  saith  the  Lord 
of  hosts,  in  that  day  when  I  make  up  my 
jewels;  and  I  will  spare  them,  as  a  man 
spareth  his  own  son  that  serveth  him. 

Then  shall  ye  return,  and  discern  between 
the  righteous  and  the  wicked,  between  him 
that  serveth  God  and  him  that  serveth  him 
not.  (Mai.  3:16-18.) 

For  behold,  the  day  cometh,  that  shall 
burn  as  an  oven;  and  all  the  proud,  yea, 
and  all  that  do  wickedly,  shall  be  stubble: 
and  the  day  that  cometh  shall  burn  them 
up,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  that  it  shall 
leave  them  neither  root  nor  branch. 

But  unto  you  that  fear  my  name  shall 
the  Sun  of  righteousness  arise  with  healing 
in  his  wings;  .  .  .  (Ibid.,  4:1-2.) 

The  Lord  admonishes  his  servants  to 
remain  faithful  always  and 

Watch  therefore:  for  ye  know  not  what 
hour  your  Lord  doth  come.  .  .  . 

But  and  if  that  evil  servant  shall  say  in 
his  heart,  My  Lord  delayeth  his  coming; 

And  shall  begin  to  smite  his  fellow- 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  4 

servants,  and  to  eat  and  drink  with  the 
drunken; 

The  lord  of  that  servant  shall  come  in  a 
day  when  he  looketh  not  for  him,  and  in 
an  hour  that  he  is  not  aware  of, 

And  shall  cut  him  asunder,  and  appoint 
him  his  portion  with  the  hypocrites:  there 
shall  be  weeping  and  gnashing  of  teeth. 
(Matt.  24:42,  48-51.) 

And  the  Prophet  Zephaniah  interprets 
the  way  of  the  Lord: 

And  it  shall  come  to  pass  at  that  time, 
that  I  will  search  Jerusalem  with  candles 
[speaking  for  the  Lord],  and  punish  the 
men  that  are  settled  on  their  lees:  that  say 
in  their  heart,  The  Lord  will  not  do  good, 
neither  will  he  do  evil. 

Therefore  their  goods  shall  become  a 
booty,  and  their  houses  a  desolation:  they 
shall  also  build  houses,  but  not  inhabit 
them;  and  they  shall  plant  vineyards,  but 
not  drink  the  wine  thereof. 

The  great  day  of  the  Lord  is  near,  it  is 
near,  and  hasteth  greatly,  even  the  voice  of 
the  day  of  the  Lord:  the  mighty  man  shall 
cry  there  bitterly. 

That  day  is  a  day  of  wrath,  a  day  of 
trouble  and  distress,  a  day  of  wasteness  and 
desolation,  a  day  of  darkness  and  gloominess, 
a  day  of  clouds  and  thick  darkness.  .  .  . 

And  I  will  bring  distress  upon  men,  that 
they  shall  walk  like  blind  men,  because 
they  have  sinned  against  the  Lord:  and 
their  blood  shall  be  poured  out  as  dust, 
and  their  flesh  as  the  dung. 

Neither  their  silver  nor  their  gold  shall 
be  able  to  deliver  them  in  the  day  of  the 
Lord's  wrath;  but  the  whole  land  shall  be 
devoured  by  the  fire  of  his  jealousy.  (Zeph. 
1:12-15,  17-18.) 

Then  I  said  to  the  disconsolate  sister, 
"You  have  many  blessings  today.  For 
many  rewards  you  need  not  wait  until 
the  judgment  day.  You  have  your  fam- 
ily of  lovely  children.  What  a  rich 
reward  for  the  so-called  sacrifices!  The 
great  boon  of  motherhood  is  yours.  With 
your  limitations,  a  great  peace  can  fill 
your  soul.  These  and  numerous  other 
blessings  which  you  enjoy  cannot  be 
purchased  with  all  your  neighbor's 
wealth." 

Then  I  reminded  her  of  the  parable 
of  the  net  and  the  fishes: 


First  Day 

Again,  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  like 
unto  a  net,  that  was  cast  into  the  sea,  and 
gathered  of  every  kind: 

Which,  when  it  was  full,  they  drew  to 
shore,  and  sat  down,  and  gathered  the 
good  into  vessels,  but  cast  the  bad  away. 

So  shall  it  be  at  the  end  of  the  world: 
the  angels  shall  come  forth,  and  sever  thp 
wicked  from  among  the  just, 

And  shall  cast  them  into  the  furnace  o\ 
fire:  there  shall  be  wailing  and  gnashing 
of  teeth.   (Matt.  13:47-50.) 

No  one  will  escape  the  reward  of  his 
deeds.  No  one  will  fail  to  receive  the 
blessings  earned.  Again  the  parable  of 
the  sheep  and  goats  gives  us  assurance 
that  there  will  be  total  justice. 

When  the  Son  of  Man  shall  come  in  his 
glory,  and  all  the  holy  angels  with  him, 
then  shall  he  sit  upon  the  throne  of  his 
glory: 

And  before  him  shall  be  gathered  all 
nations:  and  he  shall  separate  them  one 
from  another,  as  a  shepherd  divideth  his 
sheep  from  the  goats: 

And  he  shall  set  the  sheep  on  his  right 
hand,  but  the  goats  on  the  left. 

Then  shall  the  King  say  unto  them  on 
his  right  hand,  Come,  ye  blessed  of  my 
Father,  inherit  the  kingdom  prepared  for 
you  from  the  foundation  of  the  world: 

Then  shall  he  say  also  unto  them  on  the 
left  hand,  Depart  from  me,  ye  cursed,  into 
everlasting  fire,  prepared  for  the  devil  and 
his  angels: 

And  these  shall  go  away  into  everlasting 
punishment:  but  the  righteous  into  life 
eternal.  (Ibid.,  25:31-34,  41,  46.) 

If  we  can  walk  now  by  faith,  if  we 
can  believe  in  the  rich  promises  of 
God,  if  we  can  obey  and  patiently  wait, 
the  Lord  will  fulfil  all  his  rich  prom- 
ises to  us: 

.  .  .  Eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard, 
neither  have  entered  into  the  heart  of  man, 
the  things  which  God  hath  prepared  for 
them  that  love  him.  (I  Cor.  2:9.) 

The  blessings  following  righteousness 
are  enjoyed  both  in  mortality  and  in 
eternity.   Hear  the  words  of  the  Savior: 

And  every  one  that  hath  forsaken  houses, 
or  brethren,  or  sisters,  or  father,  or  mother, 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


23 


or  wife,  or  children,  or  lands,  for  my  name's 
sake,  shall  receive  an  hundredfold,  and 
shall  inherit  everlasting  life.  (Matt.  19:29.) 

And  ponder  upon  the  great  promises 
made  for  us  even  in  this  life: 

i 

Bring  ye  all  the  tithes  into  the  storehouse, 
that  there  may  be  meat  in  mine  house, 
and  prove  me  now  herewith,  saith  the 
Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will  not  open  you  the 
windows  of  heaven,  and  pour  you  out  a 
blessing,  that  there  shall  not  be  room  enough 
to  receive  it. 

And  I  will  rebuke  the  devourer  for  your 
sakes,  and  he  shall  not  destroy  the  fruits 
of  your  ground;  neither  shall  your  vine 
cast  her  fruit  before  the  time  in  the  field, 
saith  the  Lord  of  hosts. 

And  all  nations  shall  call  you  blessed: 
for  ye  shall  be  a  delightsome  land,  saith 
the  Lord  of  hosts.  (Malachi  3:10-12.) 

Extravagant  rewards  are  offered. 
Blessings  beyond  one's  understanding 
will  come.  The  land  will  yield  bounte- 
ously and  peace  shall  abound.  The  un- 
faithful, proud,  and  wealthy  can  never 
enjoy  the  sweet  savor  of  the  rewards  for 
fasting  and  dispensing  to  the  poor: 

Then  [if  you  live  these  commandments] 
shall  thy  light  break  forth  as  the  morning, 
and  thine  health  shall  spring  forth  speedily: 
and  thy  righteousness  shall  go  before  thee; 
the  glory  of  the  Lord  shall  be  thy  reward. 

Then  shalt  thou  call,  and  the  Lord  shall 
answer;  thou  shalt  cry,  and  he  shall  say, 
Here  I  am.  .  .  . 

.  .  .  then  shall  thy  light  rise  in  obscurity, 
and  thy  darkness  be  as  the  noon  day: 

And  the  Lord  shall  guide  thee  continually, 
and  satisfy  thy  soul  in  drought,  and  make 
fat  thy  bones:  and  thou  shalt  be  like  a 
watered  garden,  and  like  a  spring  of  water, 
whose  waters  fail  not.  (Isaiah  58:8-11.) 

What  more  could  one  ask?  The 
companionship  of  the  Lord,  light  and 
knowledge,  health  and  vigor,  constant 
guidance  by  the  Lord  as  an  eternal 
never-failing  spring.  What  more  could 
one  desire? 

Again  rich  promises: 

And  [they]  shall  find  wisdom  and  great 
treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden  treas- 
ures; 


And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall 
walk  and  not  faint. 

And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  prom- 
ise, that  the  destroying  angel  shall  pass  by 
them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not 
slay  them.  Amen.  (D.  &  C.  89:19-21.) 

Think  of  itl  Knowledge — testimony — 
spiritual  strength — physical  vigor  and 
immunity  from  the  destroying  angel! 
Remember  also  that  here  comes  pro- 
tection from  that  more  deadly  destruc- 
tion: 

And  fear  not  them  which  kill  the  body, 
but  are  not  able  to  kill  the  soul;  but  rather 
fear  him  which  is  able  to  destroy  both  soul 
and  body  in  hell.  (Matt.  10:28.) 

But  the  Lord  knows  the  weakness  of 
men,  and  he  says  in  the  58th  section 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

I  command  and  men  obey  not;  I  revoke 
and  they  receive  not  the  blessing. 

Then  they  say  in  their  hearts:  This  is 
not  the  work  of  the  Lord,  for  his  promises 
are  not  fulfilled.  But  wo  unto  such,  for 
their  reward  lurketh  beneath,  and  not  from 
above.  (D.  &  C.  58:32-33.) 

The  Lord  promises  again: 

If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of 
God,  that  giveth  to  all  men  liberally,  and 
upbraideth  not;  and  it  shall  be  given  him. 
(James  1 :5.) 

Great  shall  be  their  reward  and  eternal 
shall  be  their  glory.  (D.  &  C.  76:6.) 

But  seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God, 
and  his  righteousness;  and  all  these  things 
shall  be  added  unto  you.  (Matt.  6:33.) 

To  those  who  live  for  tomorrow,  the 
rewards  are  beyond  their  conception. 
And  even  though  some  of  the  blessings 
are  for  future  enjoyment,  is  it  not  far 
better  to  enjoy  the  spiritual  luxuries 
of  tomorrow,  which  is  an  eternity,  rather 
than  to  revel  in  the  physical  comforts 
of  today? 

Peace,  joy,  satisfaction,  happiness, 
growth,  contentment,  all  come  with  the 
righteous  living  of  the  commandments 
of  God.  The  one  who  delights  in  all 
of  the  worldly  luxuries  of  today,  at  the 
expense  of  spirituality,  is  living  but  for 


24 

Friday,  April  4 

the  moment.  His  day  is  coming.  Retri- 
bution is  sure. 

The  Lord  gave  us  the  impressive  para- 
ble of  the  prodigal  son.  This  squanderer 
lived  but  for  today.  He  spent  his  life 
in  riotous  living.  He  disregarded  the 
commandments  of  God.  His  inheritance 
was  expendable,  and  he  spent  it.  He 
was  never  to  enjoy  it  again  as  it  was 
irretrievably  gone.  No  quantity  of  tears 
or  regrets  or  remorse  could  bring  it 
back.  Even  though  his  father  forgave 
him  and  dined  him  and  clothed  him 
and  kissed  him,  he  could  not  give  back 
to  the  profligate  son  that  which  had 
been  dissipated.  But  the  other  brother 
who  had  been  faithful,  loyal,  righteous, 
constant,  retained  his  inheritance,  and 
the  father  reassured  him:  "All  that  I 
have  is  thine." 

When  one  realizes  the  vastness,  the 
richness,  the  glory  of  that  "all"  which 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

the  Lord  promises  to  bestow  upon  his 
faithful,  it  is  worth  all  it  costs  in  pa- 
tience, faith,  sacrifice,  sweat  and  tears. 
The  blessings  of  eternity  contemplated 
in  this  "all"  bring  to  men  immortality 
and  everlasting  life,  eternal  growth,  di- 
vine leadership,  eternal  increase,  per- 
fection, and  with  it  all — Godhood. 

May  God  bless  us  all  that  we  may 
live  his  commandments  more  faithfully, 
more  perfectly  day  by  day,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Spencer  W. 
Kimball.  Brother  Thomas  E.  McKay, 
Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will  now  ad- 
dress us.  While  he  is  coming  we  will 
just  say  that  any  important  messages  or 
calls  that  come  to  us  from  persons  who 
are  supposed  to  be  in  attendance  will 
be  broadcast  over  the  loud  speaker. 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay  and  Counselors, 
President  Smith,  and  other  General 
Authorities,  and  brethren  and  sis- 
ters: Never  before  in  my  life  have  I  felt 
so  thankful  for  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  for  the  testimony  that  I  have  that 
it  is  true — a  great  plan  of  life  and  salva- 
tion. I  have  felt  very  much  impressed 
this  morning  with  all  that  has  been  said, 
especially  about  the  gospel,  which  is  the 
great  plan  of  life  and  salvation  as  re- 
vealed to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

I  have  felt  the  nearness  of  our  angel 
mother,  especially  during  the  time  that 
President  McKay  was  speaking.  Her 
great  faith  and  courage  have  had  much 
to  do  with  his  being  where  he  is  today. 
When  my  father  was  called  on  a  mis- 
sion in  1881,  it  was  just  a  few  weeks 
after  they  had  buried  my  two  older 
sisters.  It  was  a  very  hard  blow  for 
my  father,  since  they  were  just  at  the 
age,  eleven  and  nine,  where  they  could 
be  of  much  help  to  my  mother;  and  my 
father  was  always  very  kind  and  con- 
siderate of  her.    It  was  difficult  for 


Father  to  recover  from  this  loss,  and  then 
this  call  came  from  Box  B  to  go  on  a 
mission.  It  worried  him.  He  could 
not  eat  or  sleep.  He  loved  my  mother 
with  all  his  heart,  of  course;  and  out 
of  consideration  for  her  and  her  condi- 
tion, he  finally  decided  that  he  would 
ask  for  a  postponement  of  that  mission 
call.  He  told  Mother  of  this  decision. 
She  appreciated  that  love  and  considera- 
tion, of  course;  but  she  looked  at  him 
and  said,  "David,  you  go  on  that  mis- 
sion. You  go  now.  The  Lord  wants 
you  now,  not  a  year  from  now,  and  he 
will  take  care  of  me."  My  father  ac- 
cepted the  call. 

Of  course,  it  was  a  trial  for  him  to 
leave,  as  he  left  on  the  nineteenth  of 
April  in  the  spring  of  1881,  and  ten 
days  later,  on  the  29th,  my  sister  Annie 
was  born.  That  made  four  of  us — my 
brother,  President  McKay,  seven  years 
old;  I  was  five;  my  sister  Jeanette,  three; 
and  that  sweet  little  darling  baby, 
Annie,  just  born. 

.  I  am  going  to  take  time  to  refer  to 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


25 


this  incident  in  connection  with  the 
wonderful  sermon  that  was  delivered 
by  President  McKay  this  morning  to 
illustrate  how  the  great  gospel  plan  oper- 
ates. 

In  order  to  get  a  little  ready  cash  to 
send  to  my  father,  my  mother  planned 
for  that  next  winter.  We  were  greatly 
blessed  with  good  crops — more  than  the 
sheds  would  hold  of  the  hay — so  we 
stacked  the  surplus  just  outside  of  the 
stables.  Instead  of  selling  that  hay, 
Mother  decided  to  take  a  few  cattle 
from  others  to  feed,  among  them  a  big 
yoke  of  oxen,  and  the  owners  were  to 
pay  monthly.  In  that  way  she  got  the 
money  to  send  to  Father.  My  mother 
never  did  the  chores.  We  hired  a  man. 
In  fact  she  was  very  much  frightened  of 
the  cattle,  especially  of  these  oxen.  But 
she  was  a  little  worried.  She  was  getting 
a  good  cash  payment,  and  she  wanted 
to  see  that  they  were  taken  care  of.  I 
remember  one  evening  after  the  hired 
man  had  gone,  she  took  us  boys  and 
slipped  out  to  the  barn  to  that  stack 
of  hay.  We  had  a  homemade  hay  puller 
of  maple,  and  she  would  pull  the  hay 
out  of  that  stack,  and  David  O.  would 
put  it  in  his  little  arms  and  carry  it 
into  the  oxen.  He  wasn't  afraid.  I 
was.  I  stood  right  by  Mother,  and  I 
would  pull  out  a  little  hay.  After  mak- 
ing about  five  or  six  trips  feeding  those 
oxen,  he  put  a  little  extra  in  his  arms 
about  the  sixth  trip.  He  hurried  in  and 
then  ran  out  and  said,  "Come  ori, 
Mama,  let's  run  now  before  they  eat 
that." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  it  was  because 
of  the  decision  of  that  angel  mother  that 
my  father  went  on  that  mission,  and 
went  on  it  then,  not  a  year  from  then, 
that  we  are  here  today.  That  set  the 
example. 

In  1897  the  test  came  again.  There 
were  four  of  us,  those  four  that  were 
the  babies  in  1881,  were  then  at  the 
university.  We  had  borrowed  money, 
of  course,  but  we  had  it  all  planned. 
David  O.  and  Jeanette  had  been  there 
two  years  before,  and  Father  sent  us 
down  to  get  acquainted  before  they 
graduated.    They  were  to  graduate  and 


teach  and  help  pay  the  debts,  and  keep 
my  sister,  that  missionary  baby  girl, 
and  myself  in  school.  Just  before  school 
closed  in  June,  another  letter  came  from 
Box  B.  It  was  forwarded  from  Hunts- 
ville  to  Salt  Lake  City  where  we  were 
living.  The  girls  had  already  gone  to 
school  that  morning.  I  was  writing  a 
composition.  The  doorbell  rang,  and 
David  O.  answered.  The  mailman 
handed  him  the  letter,  and  as  he  read, 
I  glanced  up  and  saw  that  he  was  quite 
agitated.  I  said,  "What  is  the  matter? 
Is  somebody  sick  at  home?" 

He  threw  the  letter  across  the  table 
in  disgust  and  said,  "Isn't  that  heck?" 
He  used  a  stronger  word. 

He  was  deeply  concerned  for  several 
days.  The  rest  of  us  were  a  little  wor- 
ried. I  know  my  parents  were  worried, 
but  they  did  not  interfere;  they  did  not 
write.  But  because  of  that  angel  mother 
who  told  my  father  to  go  on  that  mis- 
sion, David  O.  did  not  turn  that  call 
down.  God  bless  the  memory  of  that 
angel  mother. 

God  bless  this  gospel  plan,  that  gives 
us  so  many  opportunities.  May  we, 
brethren  and  sisters,  live  in  accordance 
with  the  gospel,  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  the  plan  of  life  and  salva- 
tion, and  from  this  time  on  resolve  to 
"Do  unto  others  as  you  would  have 
others  do  unto  you,"  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Thom- 
as E.  McKay,  Assistant  to  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  now  sing,  "An 
Angel  From  On  High,"  conducted  by 
Crawford  Gates. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Floyed  G.  Eyre,  formerly  president  of 
the  Canadian  Mission,  after  which  this 
conference  will  be  adjourned  until  2:00 
this  afternoon. 

The  proceedings  of  that  session  will 
be  broadcast  over  KSL  and  by  arrange- 
ment through  KSL  over  the  other  sta- 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  4 

tions  named  at  the  beginning  of  this 
session. 

The  music  for  this  session,  as  you 
know,  has  been  furnished  by  the  Com- 
bined Choruses  of  the  Brigham  Young 
University.  Frank  W.  Asper  is  at  the 
organ,  Brothers  Norman  Gulbrandsen 
and  Crawford  Gates  conducting. 


First  Day 

Singing  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  "An  Angel 
From  On  High." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Floyed  G.  Eyre,  formerly  presid- 
dent  of  the  Canadian  Mission. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


FIRST  DAY 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  second  session  of  the  conference 
convened  at  2:00  p.m.,  Friday,  April  4, 
in  the  great  Tabernacle. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  second  session  of  the  One 
Hundred  and  Twenty-Second  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

We  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City.  There 
are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon 
all  the  General  Authorities,  excepting 
President  Stayner  Richards  in  Great 
Britain,  and  Elder  Thomas  E.  McKay. 

These  services  and  all  general  sessions 
of  the  Conference  will  be  broadcast  in 
the  Assembly  Hall,  and  in  the  Barratt 
Hall,  60  North  Main  Street,  over  a  loud- 
speaking  system  and  by  television. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will 
be  broadcast  over  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City 
and  by  arrangements  through  KSL  over 
the  stations  named  in  the  first  session 
of  this  Conference,  including  those  of 
surrounding  states. 

This  session  will  be  televised  also 
over  the  KSL  Television  Station,  Chan- 
nel 5. 

The  singing  for  this  session  will  be 


furnished,  as  this  morning,  by  the  Com- 
bined Choruses  of  the  Brigham  Young 
University,  with  Newell  Waite  and 
Crawford  Gates  conducting,  and  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  the  services  by  the 
Combined  Choruses  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University  singing,  "He  Watch- 
ing Over  Israel,"  conducted  by  Newell 
Waite. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  W.  Ernest  Young,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  Argentine  Mission. 

Selection  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  "He, 
Watching  Over  Israel,  Slumbers  Not 
Nor  Sleeps." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  W.  Ernest  Young,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  Argentine  Mission. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  continue  by  the  Combined 
Choruses  singing,  "God  of  Our  Fathers," 
conducted  by  Elder  Newell  Waite. 

After  the  singing,  Elder  Joseph  Field- 
ing Smith,  president  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve,  will  address  us. 


The  Combined  Choruses  sang 
of  Our  Fathers." 


'God 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


1am  very  grateful  for  the  meeting  that 
was  held  this  morning  and  for  the 
good  counsel  that  was  given  to  the 
members  of  the  Church.    I  pray  that 


we  will  heed  it  and  remember  that  we 
are  living  in  a  wicked  world  where 
men's  hearts  have  turned  from  truth  to 
untruth,  from  righteousness  to  wicked- 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH 

ness;  when  men  are  unrighteously  am- 
bitious, seeking  for  power;  when  the 
liberties  of  the  people  are  in  danger. 
It  behooves  us  as  members  of  the  Church 
to  heed  the  counsels  that  are  given  by 
those  who  stand  as  our  leaders  under 
Jesus  Christ. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  gospel,  for  all 
the  privileges  which  are  mine  to  give 
service,  for  the  privilege  that  is  mine  to 
honor  my  Maker  and  be  a  true  servant 
to  our  Master,  the  Savior  and  Redeemer 
of  the  world. 

We  are  all  aware  that  we  are  in 
imminent  danger — danger  because  Satan 
rages  in  the  hearts  of  the  people.  This 
has  all  been  predicted,  and  the  pre- 
dictions are  coming  true.  Antichrist 
is  gaining  power,  and  Satan  has  put  into 
the  hearts  of  the  people — the  majority 
of  them — greed,  and  the  desire  to  domi- 
nate and  take  advantage  of  those  who 
are  weak. 

Our  duty  is  to  keep  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord,  to  walk  uprightly,  to 
defend  every  principle  of  truth,  to  sus- 
tain and  uphold  the  Constitution  of 
this  great  country,  to  remember  the 
Declaration  of  Independence,  for,  as 
we  heard  this  morning  from  our  Presi- 
dent, upon  these  principles  our  country 
was  based.  They  stand  at  the  founda- 
tion, the  cornerstones  of  the  liberty  that 
our  fathers  fought  for,  and  which 
brought  to  pass  according  to  the  word 
of  the  Lord,  the  redemption  of  this 
land  by  the  shedding  of  blood. 

There  is  no  other  course  for  us  to 
take  but  the  course  of  righteousness  and 
truth.  An  ancient  prophet  on  this 
continent  said,  "...  the  natural  man 
is  an  enemy  to  God."  (Mosiah  3:19.) 
The  world  today  has  become  carnal,  as 
much  so  now  as  in  the  beginning  when 
Adam  attempted  to  teach  his  children 
the  principles  of  eternal  truth,  and 
Satan  came  among  them  and  com- 
manded them  to  believe  it  not. 

And  we  read,  "From  that  time  forth 
man  became  carnal,  sensual,  and  devil- 
ish." (Moses  5:13.) 

Surely  we  see  these  indications  preva- 
lent in  our  own  land  and  in  foreign 
lands.    Men  bave  become  carnal.  They 


FIELDING  SMITH  27 

have  become  enemies  to  God.  They  are 
seeking  for  their  own  advancement  and 
not  for  the  advancement  of  the  king- 
dom of  God. 

Let  me  call  your  attention  to  this 
fact  which  you,  of  course,  all  know, 
that  we  are  living  in  the  last  days,  the 
days  of  trouble,  days  of  wickedness, 
spoken  of  as  days  of  wickedness  several 
hundred  years  before  the  coming  of 
Christ  by  Nephi,  as  it  is  recorded  in  the 
twenty-seventh  chapter  of  Second 
Nephi. 

But,  behold,  in  the  last  days,  or  in  the 
days  of  the  Gentiles — yea,  behold  all  the 
nations  of  the  Gentiles  and  also  the  Jews, 
both  those  who  shall  come  upon  this  land 
and  those  who  shall  be  upon  other  lands, 
yea,  even  upon  all  the  lands  of  the  earth, 
behold,  they  will  be  drunken  with  iniquity 
and  all  manner  of  abominations. 

And  when  that  day  shall  come  they  shall 
be  visited  of  the  Lord  of  Hosts,  with  thun- 
der and  with  earthquake,  and  with  a  great 
noise,  and  with  storm,  and  with  tempest, 
and  with  the  flame  of  devouring  fire.  (II 
Nephi  27:1-2.) 

That  was  said  many  hundreds  of 
years  before  the  birth  of  Christ.  We 
are  living  in  the  days  of  the  Gentiles 
when  this  prediction  was  to  be  fulfilled. 
We  see  it  being  fulfilled,  and  we  must 
remember,  my  good  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  members  of  the  Church  are 
not  members  of,  and  do  not  belong  to 
the  world. 

In  the  wonderful  prayer  of  our  Re- 
deemer, as  recorded  in  the  seventeenth 
chapter  of  John — I  can  hardly  read 
this  chapter  without  tears  coming  to  my 
eyes — wherein  our  Lord,  in  praying  to 
his  Father  in  the  tenderness  of  all  his 
soul  because  he  knew  the  hour  had 
come  for  him  to  offer  himself  as  a 
sacrifice,  prayed  for  his  disciples.  In 
that  prayer  he  said, 

I  pray  not  that  thou  shouldest  take  them 
out  of  the  world,  but  that  thou  shouldest 
keep  them  from  the  evil. 

They  are  not  of  the  world,  even  as  1 
am  not  of  the  world. 

Sanctify  them  through  thy  truth:  thy 
word  is  truth.  (John  17:15-17.) 


28 

Friday,  April  4 

If  we  are  living  the  religion  which 
the  Lord  has  revealed  and  which  we 
have  received,  we  do  not  belong  to  the 
world.  We  should  have  no  part  in 
all  its  foolishness.  We  should  not  par- 
take of  its  sins  and  its  errors — errors 
of  philosophy  and  errors  of  doctrine, 
errors  in  regard  to  government,  or  what- 
ever those  errors  may  be — we  have  no 
part  in  it. 

The  only  part  we  have  is  the  keeping 
of  the  commandments  of  God.  That  is 
all,  being  true  to  every  covenant  and 
every  obligation  that  we  have  entered 
into  and  taken  upon  ourselves. 

Brother  Kimball  in  his  remarks  this 
morning  spoke  of  a  man  who  could  not 
quite  understand  when  he  paid  his 
tithing  and  kept  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
was  prayerful,  and  tried  to  be  obedient 
to  all  the  commandments  the  Lord  had 
given  him,  and  yet  he  had  to  struggle 
to  make  a  living;  while  his  neighbor 
violated  the  Sabbath  day,  I  suppose  he 
smoked  and  drank;  he  had  what  the 
world  would  call  a  good  time,  he  paid  no 
attention  to  the  teachings  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ,  and  yet  he 
prospered. 

You  know,  we  have  a  great  many 
members  of  the  Church  that  ponder  that 
over  in  their  hearts  and  wonder  why. 
Why  this  man  seems  to  be  blessed  with 
all  the  good  things  of  the  earth — inci- 
dentally, many  of  the  bad  things  that 
he  thinks  are  good — and  yet  so  many 
members  of  the  Church  are  struggling, 
laboring  diligently  to  try  to  make  their 
way  through  the  world. 

The  answer  is  a  simple  thing.  If  I 
sometimes,  and  once  in  a  while  I  do, 
go  to  a  football  game  or  a  baseball 
game  or  some  other  place  of  amuse- 
ment, invariably  I  will  be  surrounded 
by  men  and  women  who  are  puffing 
on  cigarets  or  cigars  or  dirty  pipes.  It 
gets  very  annoying,  and  I  get  a  little 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

disturbed.  I  will  turn  to  Sister  Smith, 
and  I  will  say  something  to  her,  and 
she  will  say,  "Well,  now,  you  know  what 
you  have  taught  me.  You  are  in  their 
world.  This  is  their  world."  And  that 
sort  of  brings  me  back  to  my  senses. 
Yes,  we  are  in  their  world,  but  we  do 
not  have  to  be  of  it. 

So,  as  this  is  their  world  we  are  living 
in,  they  prosper,  but,  my  good  brethren 
and  sisters,  their  world  is  coming  to 
its  end.  It  will  not  be  many  years.  I 
can  say  that.  I  do  not  know  how  many 
years,  but  Elijah  said  when  he  bestowed 
his  keys:  ".  .  .  by  this  ye  may  know  that 
the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord 
is  near,  even  at  the  doors,"  (D.  &  C. 
110:16)  I  am  sure  that  over  a  hundred 
years  later  I  can  say  that  the  end  of  this 
world  is  drawing  to  its  end. 

The  day  will  come  when  we  will  not 
have  this  world.  It  will  be  changed. 
We  will  get  a  better  world.  We  will 
get  one  that  is  righteous,  because  when 
Christ  comes,  he  will  cleanse  the  earth. 

Read  what  is  written  in  our  scriptures. 
Read  what  he  himself  has  said.  When 
he  comes,  he  will  cleanse  this  earth 
from  all  its  wickedness,  and,  speaking 
of  the  Church,  he  has  said  that  he 
would  send  his  angels  and  they  would 
gather  out  of  his  kingdom,  which  is  the 
Church,  all  things  that  offend.  Then 
we  are  going  to  have  a  new  earth,  a 
new  heaven.  The  earth  will  be  renewed 
for  a  thousand  years,  and  there  shall 
be  peace,  and  Christ,  whose  right  it  is, 
shall  reign.  Afterwards  will  come  the 
death  of  the  earth,  its  resurrection,  its 
glorification,  as  the  abode  of  the  right- 
eous or  they  who  belong  to  the  celestial 
kingdom,  and  they  only  shall  dwell 
upon  the  face  of  it. 

Let  us  be  true  and  faithful,  keep  our 
covenants,  be  true  to  every  obligation 
the  Lord  has  given  us.  I  humbly  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


M 


lny  years  ago  I  walked  into 
Richards  Ward  of  this  city  to  hear 
President  Charles  W.  Penrose  de- 


liver an  address.  I  have  not  the  least 
idea  about  what  he  intended  to  speak, 
but  I  saw  before  us  the  text  upon  which 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


29 


he  did  speak.  Someone  had  placed 
upon  the  rostrum  for  the  benefit  of 
those  who,  I  suppose,  needed  it — the 
youngsters  of  Sunday  School  age — a 
sign  which  read,  "Order  is  the  First 
Law  of  Heaven." 

I  suspect  that  Brother  Penrose  was 
impatient  for  the  preliminary  exercises 
to  be  finished  because  immediately  after- 
wards he  took  the  floor  and  spent  the 
whole  evening  explaining  why  order  is 
not,  but  that  obedience  is,  the  first  law  of 
heaven.  I  cannot  remember  what  he 
said.  I  do  remember  that  this  was  the 
first  time  in  my  life  that  I  had  heard 
this  principle  explained  thoroughly. 

I  recognize  the  fact  that  this  Church 
is  a  Church  of  revealed  principle.  From 
the  Lord  come  the  revelations  which 
establish  the  principles.  I  should  like 
to  bear  my  witness  that  there  must  be 
an  interpreter  for  the  Church  of  those 
principles. 

If  we  had  no  revelator  to  do  it  for 
us,  each  man  and  each  woman  would 
interpret,  explain,  and  take  into  his  own 
life  only  that  portion  of  each  principle 
which  he  would  wish  for  himself,  and 
this  people  would  be  disunited  and  di- 
vergent in  its  views.  I  do  thank  my 
Lord  that  there  sits  on  this  stand  a 
Prophet  of  the  Lord,  who,  with  his 
Counselors  and  the  Twelve,  are  em- 
powered to  tell  us  how  as  a  united  body 
we  are  to  explain  and  entertain  the 
principles. 

Now,  the  matter  of  having  a  principle 
explained  is  one  thing,  teaching  its  ap- 
plication is  another  thing,  but  getting 
obedience  to  it  is  a  third  thing.  As  I 
have  gone  through  my  life,  I  confess 
to  you  folk  that  I  have  never  been 
coerced.  The  obedience  I  have  chosen 
to  render  to  the  principles  has  been 
entirely  my  own,  and  completely  volun- 
tary. I  have  always  been  able  to  choose 
whether  I  would  accept  the  interpreta- 
tion of  the  Presidents  of  the  Church 
or  whether  I  would  figure  out  my  own 
interpretation.  I  have  found  that  the 
interpretation  of  the  Church  has  had 
safety  for  me.  I  have  found  myself 
wandering  far  astray  when  left  to  my 


own  devices  on  things  about  which  the 
prophet  of  the  Lord  has  spoken. 

I  believe  that  all  of  the  crises  through 
which  the  Church  has  passed  have  been 
safely  weathered  by  the  application  of 
the  principle  of  obedience,  voluntarily 
expressed.  Even  in  the  sharp  days  at 
Nauvoo  when  men  did  not  know  whither 
to  turn  or  what  to  do,  President  Young 
did  not  tell  the  people  they  had  to 
leave.  If  I  remember  history  correctly, 
he  is  reported  to  have  said  to  his 
people: 

"I  am  going  to  cross  the  river  and 
start  west  with  my  family  and  my 
teams.  All  those  who  wish  to  follow 
me,  do  so." 

Well,  the  majority  wished  to  follow 
him,  and  the  majority  did  so.  We  have 
never  heard  what  happened  to  those 
who  did  not  come,  except  for  a  very 
few  about  whom  the  Church  was  vitally 
concerned.  Those  who  came,  who  were 
obedient,,  did  not  live  to  see  it,  but  their 
children's  children  are  the  faithful  of 
today.  And  those  who  did  not  come, 
where  are  their  children,  may  I  ask? 
one  never  hears  of  them. 

When  the  Church  moved  south  at 
the  coming  of  Johnston's  Army,  Presi- 
dent Young  again  said:  "I  am  going 
south.  Those  who  want  to  come  may 
come."  Nearly  all  of  them  went  with 
him,  and  at  Provo  when  the  crisis  was 
over,  he  stood  up  on  a  wagon  tongue 
and  said  to  the  people: 

"I  am  going  back  to  Salt  Lake  City. 
Those  of  you  who  care  to  follow  may 
do  so." 

I  have  observed  that  never  do  the 
prophetic  leaders  tell  the  people  what 
they  must  do  but  rather  advise  them 
what  it  is  wise  and  expedient  to  do. 

More  recently,  in  our  day,  when  the 
welfare  program  was  announced,  and 
the  brethren  from  this  pulpit  explained 
to  those  assembled  how  they  wanted  to 
work  it,  from  my  position  among  the 
rank  and  file  I  heard  a  great  deal  from 
certain  people  who  wanted  to  do  it 
differently.  They  did  not  want  to  in- 
terpret it  the  way  the  brethren  wanted 
to  interpret  it. 

Where  are  they  today?    I  do  not 


30 

Friday,  April  4 

know.  They  are  not  in  positions  of  re- 
sponsibility, certainly.  Those  who  were 
willing  to  follow  the  lead  voluntarily, 
with  faith,  believing  that  their  leaders 
spoke  with  inspiration  from  Almighty 
God,  are  those  in  whom  the  responsi- 
bility is  rested. 

So  I  suppose  it  must  always  be.  As 
we  come  to  crisis  after  crisis,  as  the 
events  of  the  world  make  changes  neces- 
sary in  policy,  the  leaders  will  speak,  and 
those  who  are  wise  will  give  unques- 
tioning obedience.  I  did  not  say  un- 
intelligent obedience.  I  said  unques- 
tioning obedience. 

I  should  like  to  make  an  application 
of  what  I  have  been  saying  today.  We 
have  now  come  to  a  time,  I  see  by  the 
newspapers,  when  we  are  to  have  an- 
nounced this  evening,  a  missionary 
policy. 

Now  I  confess  to  you  people  here 
that  I  do  not  know  personally  much 
more  about  that  than  you  do.  Suppose 
that  the  policy  is  not  in  harmony  with 
what  you  had  thought  to  be  the  direc- 
tion in  which  it  ought  to  go;  suppose 
it  to  embody  detail  which  I  should 
like  to  see  done  some  other  way.  Ap- 
plying the  principle  of  obedience  to 
myself,  I  stand  here  now  and  say  to  you 
here  assembled  that  it  is  my  intention 
to  follow,  as  nearly  as  the  Lord  will 
give  me  light,  those  plans  and  policies 
regarding  missionary  work  that  are  to 
be  announced  by  my  file  leaders. 

I  shall  not  want  to  improve  on  their 
ideas,  but  I  shall  give  all  my  strength, 
and  all  my  courage,  and  any  talents 
with  which  the  Lord  may  have  blessed 
me,  to  doing  what  will  be  announced. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

I  think  that  we  have  come  to  a  time 
now  when  we  are  going  to  see  some 
changes.  Times  are  ripe  for  changes. 
The  world  is  changing.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  changed  the  missionary 
system  two  or  three  times  in  his  own 
life.  At  one  time  he  told  the  mission- 
aries to  go  out  two  by  two.  Shortly 
after  he  told  them  they  might  now  go 
one  at  a  time  and  alone.  Other  changes 
have  been  made.   I  am  for  the  changes. 

May  I  close  by  reading  you  a  verse  of 
scripture  which  I  think  applies  to  me 
personally.  Maybe  you  can  apply  it 
to  yourselves.  It  was  said  by  Samuel  on 
an  occasion  which  I  think  justified  the 
saying. 

.  .  .  Hath  the  Lord  as  great  delight  in 
burnt  offerings  and  sacrifices,  as  in  obeying 
the  voice  of  the  Lord?  Behold,  to  obey  is 
better  than  sacrifice,  and  to  hearken  than 
the  fat  of  rams.  (I  Samuel  15:22.) 

There  I  stand.  May  we  all  do  like- 
wise, I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  all  remember  Elder  George  Q. 
Morris  as  General  Superintendent  of  the 
Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  As- 
sociation. This  is  the  first  opportunity 
you  have  had  to  hear  him  since  his  re- 
lease as  president  of  the  Eastern  States 
Mission,  and  the  first  time  since  he  was 
ordained  and  set  apart  as  an  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve. 

Elder  George  Q.  Morris  will  now  speak 
to  us. 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am 
very  thankful  for  the  privilege  of 
being  with  you  here  today.  I 
have  thrilled  with  the  spirit  and  in- 
structions of  this  great  conference. 

Having  now  been  released  from  mis- 
sionary work,  as  has  been  explained,  I 


wish  to  express  my  gratitude  to  my 
Father  in  heaven  and  to  my  brethren 
for  the  privilege  I  have  had  of  laboring 
in  the  missionary  field.  I  know  of  no 
work  that  gives  greater  joy  and  satis- 
faction. 

The  work  has  been  progressing  in  the 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 


31 


Eastern  States  Mission  because  of  the 
faithfulness  of  the  missionaries  and  the 
Saints  who  are  there;  to  whom  I  pay 
tribute.  More  branches  are  being  estab- 
lished; chapels  are  being  erected;  the 
Saints  are  increasing  in  their  faith  and 
in  their  understanding  of  the  gospel,  and 
in  their  devotion  to  it;  and  they  are  en- 
joying the  fruits  of  the  gospel — joy  and 
happiness  and  peace.  Their  hearts  are 
turned  toward  us  here  in  this  center  in 
the  west. 

It  has  been  a  great  privilege  to  labor 
with  the  young  men  and  women  who 
have  been  sent  out  as  missionaries.  It  is 
one  of  the  marvels  of  this  Latter-day 
work  to  see  them  in  action.  They  come 
quite  inexperienced  and  untrained.  They 
have  lived  the  gospel  as  children  and 
youths  but  have  been  engrossed  with 
school  and  occupations,  and  other  mat- 
ters that  have  filled  their  lives;  then 
they  are  suddenly  sent  into  the  field  to 
preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  the 
world. 

Many  of  them  do  not  know  just  what 
it  is.  Many  of  them  cannot  quote  you 
a  scripture,  but  their  hearts  are  right. 
Most  of  them  have  looked  forward  to  a 
mission  and  are  joyous  in  having  come 
into  the  missionary  field.  Being  there, 
they  get  down  on  their  knees  and  get 
into  the  scriptures,  and  they  become 
humble  and  contrite.  The  Lord  takes 
hold  of  them,  and  in  a  few  weeks  they 
are  preaching  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
no  other  gospel.  They  are  not  taught  of 
men.  They  are  not  sent  out  to  be  taught 
of  men.  They  are  sent  out  to  be  taught 
from  on  high  the  revealed  word  of  God, 
taught  through  the  priesthood  of  God; 
and  the  Lord  is  close  to  them;  and  they 
grow  in  power  and  faith;  and  the  gospel 
is  preached — the  gospel  that  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  preached,  that  Peter,  James, 
and  John  preached — the  identical  prin- 
ciples. 

Its  power  is  effective  today.  Men  and 
women  are  being  changed  in  their  lives. 
After  a  short  association  with  these 
young  people,  many  of  them  drop  habits 
that  are  harmful  to  them.  They  have 
found  a  new  spirit,  a  new  type  of  man- 
hood and  womanhood.  A  new  power  has 


come  into  their  lives.  They  just  do  not 
at  once  realize  what  it  is,  but  they  grow 
in  a  knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  they 
are  converted  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Then  they  enter  into  a  new  life. 
The  Bible  is  a  new  book  to  them.  Their 
homes  are  new  homes  to  them.  Rela- 
tions with  the  family  are  new  relations, 
and  the  world  is  a  new  world. 

The  power  of  God  unto  the  salvation 
of  his  children  is  here  in  the  world  to- 
day; and  through  the  ministrations  of 
these  young  men  of  the  Church,  in  their 
humility  and  their  faith,  the  heavens 
are  opened;  and  the  power  of  God  is 
manifest  for  the  healing  of  the  sick  as 
well  as  for  the  healing  of  sick  souls 
and  the  giving  of  light  to  people  in  dark- 
ness. 

I  rejoice  in  their  labors.  The  Lord  has 
blessed  and  prospered  them.  I  have  been 
standing  on  the  sidelines,  but  I  have 
been  made  a  partaker  of  their  blessings, 
and  I  thank  the  Lord  for  it. 

Now  I  am  called  to  a  new  position. 
You  know  how  humble  I  feel  and  how 
small  I  feel.  We  have  a  wonderful  age 
retirement  plan  in  this  Church.  I  have 
never  believed  in  arbitrary  age  retire- 
ment. We  grow  younger  in  this  Church 
as  we  work  in  it,  and  the  age  retirement 
plan  goes  in  reverse.  The  older  we  get 
and  the  longer  we  labor  in  the  Church 
the  more  there  is  that  we  can  do.  There 
is  no  need  for  any  person  in  this  Church 
to  have  an  empty  mind,  an  empty  hand, 
or  an  empty  heart.  God  has  provided  that 
our  lives  may  be  full  and  rich  as  long 
as  we  live,  and  as  we  live  the  gospel, 
then  our  lives  become  glorious,  and  we 
enter  into  a  fulness  of  life. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  With  joy  and  gratitude  I 
go  into  this  new  work,  and  meager  as 
my  services  and  ability  may  be,  they 
will  be  given  with  all  my  heart.  I  love 
this  cause.  I  have  admiration  and  love 
for  my  brethren  under  whom  I  have 
been  laboring,  and  with  whom  I  have 
long  been  associated,  more  or  less.  I  have 
loved  them  and  appreciated  them  for 
the  examples  they  have  set  me,  for  the 
teachings  they  have  given  me,  for  the 


32 

Friday,  April  4 

kindness  they  have  manifested  towards 
me. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am 
happy  to  find  myself  in  full  accord  with 
all  that  this  Church  is  and  all  that  it 
does.  Its  divine  leader,  Jesus  Christ,  is 
my  leader  and  my  Lord.  Its  leaders  on 
this  earth  are  my  leaders.  The  princi- 
ples of  this  Church  are  my  principles. 
The  objectives  of  this  Church  are  my 
objectives.  The  welfare  of  this  Church 
is  my  welfare. 

I  give  myself  to  it  with  all  my  heart 
and  pray  that  God  may  enable  me  to 
do  some  good  in  the  sacred  ministry 
unto  which  he  has  called  me. 

This  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Creator  and  the  Redeemer  of  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

world.  The  keys  of  the  kingdom  of 
God  are  here  in  our  presence.  These 
operate  and  will  operate  throughout  all 
the  world  among  all  mankind,  through 
the  Holy  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  which 
is  always  present  when  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  is  upon  the  earth.  And 
when  this  power  is  not  upon  the  earth 
and  where  this  power  does  not  exist 
among  men,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
does  not  exist. 

Thank  God  for  the  great  revelations — 
key  revelations — that  point  the  way  for 
us  and  enlighten  us  and  preserve  us. 

May  God  help  us  to  be  true  and 
faithful,  and  devote  ourselves  with  all 
our  hearts  to  this  work,  I  humbly  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters:  It  is 
good  to  be  here.  The  ancient 
words  of  those  who  dwelt  in  the 
presence  of  the  Savior  are  our  words 
today. 

Six  months  ago  circumstances  com- 
bined so  that  I  was  not  here,  and  I 
have  felt  since  a  sense  of  loss,  loss  of 
the  spiritual  power,  the  spiritual  sup- 
port and  elevation  that  come  to  all 
Latter-day  Saints  who  attend  Church 
gatherings  in  the  name  of  the  Lord, 
whether  in  general  or  stake  or  ward 
capacity. 

With  you,  I  have  been  thrilled  to 
note  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is 
not  standing  still  but,  guided  by  heav- 
enly forces,  is  growing  and  increasing 
and  becoming  mightier  in  the  service 
of  God's  children  here  upon  earth.  With 
you,  too,  I  enjoyed  the  spirit  of  the  ser- 
mon of  the  man  who  has  been  called 
by  God  to  preside  over  the  Church.  It 
is  well  for  me,  it  is  well  for  you,  and  it 
is  well  for  all  in  the  world  to  listen  to 
the  chosen  head  of  the  Church  as  he 
speaks  from  time  to  time.  Therein  lies 
the  path  to  safety. 

Six  months  ago  I  was  not  here  be- 
cause, with  the  approval  of  the  First 
Presidency,  I  had  accepted  an  invita- 


tion from  the  Canadian  government  to 
assist  in  solving  some  of  their  problems 
relating  to  the  reclamation  of  the  dry 
lands  of  the  Dominion.  Canada  is  much 
like  the  United  States,  with  two  sea- 
boards, one  on  the  Atlantic  and  the 
other  on  the  Pacific,  with  ample  rain- 
fall, and  a  dry  section  between,  in  the 
interior,  such  as  we  have  here.  The 
prairie  provinces  of  Canada  offer  only 
scant  and  difficult  living  to  those  who 
attempt  to  cultivate  them  because  of  the 
lack  of  the  plentiful  rainfall  on  either 
coast.  So  the  practice  of  irrigation  has 
gradually  grown  in  the  province  of 
Alberta,  where  many  of  our  people  live. 
It  has  been  found  that  the  enlivening 
power  of  water  used  in  irrigation  in- 
creases the  crops  many-fold,  and  what 
is  better,  permits  a  close  settlement,  and 
in  time  the  building  of  a  state.  There 
is  water  aplenty  in  the  land  of  our 
.neighbors  to  the  north.  Great  streams, 
filled  with  water  to  overflowing,  usually, 
roll  into  the  oceans  on  both  sides  of  the 
Dominion,  and  the  problem  is  how  to 
use  that  water  on  the  dry  lands  of 
Alberta,"  Saskatchewan,  and  other 
neighboring  provinces,  to  build  the 
Dominion  of  Canada,  now  great,  into 
a  greater  country. 


ELDER  ]OHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


33 


The  commission  to  which  I  was  ap- 
pointed was  given  the  responsibility  of 
passing  on  one  of  the  huge  projects 
proposed  by  the  country,  one  that  will 
redeem  and  bring  into  cultivation  nearly 
half  a  million  acres  of  land  and  in- 
volve an  expenditure  running  from 
$100,000,000  to  $200,000,000.  Sometime 
it  has  to  be  done,  for  these  dry  lands 
when  irrigated  offer  future  possibilities 
of  happy  homes  for  thousands  of  fami- 
lies, not  to  be  overlooked  in  the  process 
of  statesmanship. 

It  has  always  been  a  curious  thing  to 
me,  curious  is  not  really  the  right  word, 
when  I  reflect  upon  the  history  of  our 
own  people,  how  we  were  led  by  the 
hand  of  God,  as  a  people,  and  were 
brought  over  the  deserts  and  over  the 
mountains  to  be  settled  in  this  country. 
We  did  not  know  at  that  time,  and  the 
world  did  not  know,  that  one-half  or 
more  of  all  the  land  surface  of  the 
earth  lies  under  low  rainfall.  These 
vast  stretches  of  land  can  be  reclaimed 
only  by  the  twin  arts  of  dry  farming 
and  irrigation,  best  of  all  by  irrigation, 
for  dry  farming  at  its  very  best  is  only 
a  minor  practice  to  be  followed  by 
people  who  live  near  the  cultivated 
areas.  But  our  people  came  here  and 
for  the  first  time  in  the  history  of 
civilization  demonstrated  that  a  suc- 
cessful manner  of  community  living 
might  be  built  with  the  irrigation  ditch. 
The  Lord  guiding  us  took  us  to  a  pro- 
tected home,  but  not  only  that,  he 
made  us  teachers  of  the  world  in  these 
twin  arts  of  successful  soil  conservation. 
In  this  state,  from  which  we  have  spread 
over  the  west  and  are  spreading  over 
the  world,  has  come  the  birth  of  modern 
irrigation.  Most  countries  which  lie 
in  part  under  low  rainfall  have 
sent  agents  or  representatives  here 
to  find  out  what  we  did  and  how 
we  did  it,  and  whether  they  can  do  it 
also.  We  have  a  worldwide  reputation 
in  reclaiming  desert  lands  by  the  use 
of  water.  Our  work  has  served  human- 
ity greatly.  We  have  preached  the 
everlasting  truths  of  the  gospel  by 
thousands  of  missionaries,  but  we  have 
also  preached  by  our  example  here, 


before  the  great  nations  of  the  world, 
how  their  resources  may  be  utilized 
more  fully  and  more  completely  and 
how  the  needs  of  humanity  may  be 
more  fully  met. 

It  has  never  seemed  to  me  a  mere 
chance  that  the  Lord  brought  us  here. 
There  seems  to  lie  in  that  part  of  our 
history  a  distinct  evidence  of  the  divine 
guidance  of  this  people.  It  may  be  of 
interest  to  us  here  today,  as  many  of 
you  know,  that  not  only  did  we  as  a 
people  begin  to  show  how  a  modern, 
civilized  group  of  people  could  live 
under  irrigation,  but  that  here,  also, 
beginning  in  our  own  Utah  State  Agri- 
cultural College  at  Logan,  experiments 
and  tests  were  and  are  made  to  place 
this  art  of  irrigation  on  a  scientific, 
orderly  basis.  This  is  not  the  place  to 
discuss  that,  perhaps,  but  we  do  have 
the  honor  of  being  not  only  the  genera- 
tors of  modern-day  irrigation,  but  also 
of  placing  that  ancient  art  on  a  modern, 
scientific  basis. 

Some  very  remarkable  things  have 
been  discovered  from  time  to  time  in 
this  field  that  are  tremendously  interest- 
ing. Our  farmers  are  gradually  learn- 
ing more  and  more  about  these  precious 
truths.  The  farming  people,  you  know, 
move  slowly.  They  want  to  know  be- 
fore they  do  anything,  but  little  by 
little  that  which  we  have  garnered  and 
gained  throughout  the  years  will  be 
used. 

And  so  a  Latter-day  Saint,  working 
as  I  had  to  work  last  fall  in  behalf  of 
a  great  agricultural,  irrigation  project,  is 
stirred  in  his  feelings  when  he  looks 
back  upon  what  the  Lord  has  asked 
his  people  to  do — to  toil,  to  struggle, 
to  compel  the  desert  to  yield;  and  also 
to  teach  all  the  world  that  which  the 
world  is  hungry  to  know. 

Well,  perhaps  that  is  all  I  should  say 
about  my  irrigation  work  and  why  I 
was  not  here  in  attendance  six  months 
ago.  But  you  know  there  is  a  great 
symbolism  in  irrigation.  As  a  lifelong 
student  of  the  subject  I  have  always 
been  impressed  by  the  fact  that  the  dry 
desert  soil  contains  nearly  all  the  ele- 
ments of  fertility.   All  that  it  needs  is 


34 

Friday,  April  4 

the  enlivening  power  of  a  stream  of 
water  to  flow  over  that  soil.  Suddenly 
the  land  begins  to  yield,  and  it  be- 
comes powerful.  Is  it  not  so  in  our 
spiritual  lives,  I  wonder?  Men  accord- 
ing to  our  theology  are  children  of  God, 
not  created  under  the  old  idea,  but  being 
literally  children  of  Almighty  God,  con- 
tain all  the  elements  under  the  law  of 
eternal  progression  that  will  lead  them 
into  the  likeness  of  their  Father  in 
heaven.  When  this  being,  this  divine 
being,  because  in  one  sense  we  are  all 
divine,  is  touched  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  the  Holy  Spirit,  the  power 
that  flows  from  God,  suddenly  a  man 
blossoms  into  a  new  life,  new  possibili- 
ties arise,  new  powers  develop.  As  I 
have  lived  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  as  a  member 
since  my  very  early  boyhood,  I  have 
come  to  understand  that  perhaps  the 
greatest  miracle  in  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  the  transformation 
that  comes  to  a  man  or  a  woman  who 
in  faith  accepts  the  truth  of  the  gospel, 
and  who  then  lives  it  in  his  or  her 
life.  That  transformation  is  marvelous. 
I  have  seen  it  in  the  mission  field,  where 
I  first  heard  the  gospel.  I  have  seen  it 
here  at  home.  I  see  it  every  day.  Every 
person  has  a  measure  of  God's  Spirit 
given  to  him.  We  are  all  in  God's 
presence  through  his  Holy  Spirit.  As 
new  and  greater  truths  come,  as  the 
understanding  of  them  develops  within 
us  if  we  accept  and  live  them,  we  are 
transformed  from  ordinary  men  into 
new  powers  and  possibilities. 

The  weavers  of  the  midlands  in  Eng- 
land, the  coal  miners  of  Wales,  the 
fishermen  in  Norway,  the  trudging 
farmers  of  Denmark,  very  common,  ordi- 
nary' people,  who  accept  the  gospel  from 
the  lips  of  some  humble  Mormon  mis- 
sionary become  so  changed  by  those 
enlightening  truths  of  the  gospel  that 
they  are  not  the  same  people  any 
longer.  They  have  been  fertilized,  so 
to  speak,  by  the  Spirit  of  God  that 
flows  from  eternal  truth,  just  as  in 
irrigation  the  barren,  dry  soil  is  ferti- 
lized by  diverting  the  stream  of  water 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

from  the  irrigation  ditch  onto  the  thirsty 
land. 

It  is  a  comparison  worthy  of  our 
thought,  because  we  are  the  bearers  of 
the  irrigation  message  to  all  the  world. 

I  remember  the  man  who  baptized 
me  into  the  Church,  a  very  common, 
ordinary  man  to  begin  with,  a  rope- 
walker  with  a  jug  of  beer  two  or  three 
times  a  day,  a  glass  of  whiskey  a  little 
later,  and  a  cud  of  tobacco  mostly  all 
day  long,  living  a  useless,  purposeless 
life,  except  for  three  meals  a  day,  and 
the  satisfaction  of  some  of  the  carnal 
appetites.  He  heard  the  gospel  and 
accepted  it.  It  was  good.  It  was  some- 
thing he  had  been  longing  for.  The 
man  grew  in  power  and  stature  in  the 
Church.  As  I  recall  it,  he  filled  five 
or  six  missions  and  presided  over  one 
of  the  missions  of  the  Church.  He  was 
the  same  man,  with  the  same  arms, 
same  feet,  same  body,  same  mind,  but 
changed  because  of  the  Spirit  that 
comes  with  the  acceptance  of  eternal 
truth.  Have  not  we  seen  this  in  our 
own  families  and  friends,  in  the  little 
towns  in  which  we  live?  Have  not  we 
felt  our  own  strength  grow  mightier 
in  love  for  our  fellow  men,  in  love 
for  our  daily  tasks,  in  love  for  all  the 
good  things  of  life?  If  you  question 
yourself  or  question  us  here  who  have 
the  responsibility  of  conducting  this  con- 
ference, we  will  all  bear  witness  to  it. 
But  remember,  when  irrigation  began 
in  Utah,  it  was  a  struggle  with  the 
earth.  It  required  toil.  The  water 
did  not  flow  down  these  canyon  streams 
to  the  farms  just  by  asking  it  to  do  so, 
but  men  dug  and  drilled  and  shoveled 
and  made  canals.  We  have  a  remark- 
able illustration  of  that  in  one  of  our 
enterprises  in  Utah.  It  was  called  the 
Hurricane  enterprise.  The  story  of  that 
has  never  been  told  quite  fully,  but 
it  is  stirring  and  thrilling.  And  to 
some  degree  in  every  enterprise  in  the 
building  of  this  state  toil  had  to  be 
faced  and  used.  And  so  to  get  that 
spiritual  stream  that  I  have  been  talk- 
ing about,  it  must  be  sought  for;  it 
must  be  fought  for;  it  must  be  labored 
for.    It  will  come,  but  we  must  ask 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


35 


for  it  and  seek  it  and  labor  for  it. 
Then  comes  that  great  change — an  over- 
whelming change.  It  changes  men  to 
a  Godlike  phase  of  life  and  living. 

Well,  you  know  the  comparison  as 
well  as  I  do.  I  must  not  take  any  more 
of  your  time.  It  is  good  to  be  a  Latter- 
day  Saint.  It  is  good  to  be  here.  It 
is  good  to  hear  the  words  of  inspira- 
tion that  come  from  the  mouths  and 
lives  of  these  inspired  men.  I  am  glad 
to  feel  the  responsive  spirit  from  the 
thousands  of  people  who  are  here  and 
who  listen  over  the  radio. 

May  we  all  so  live  as  to  have  a  great 
measure  of  the  enlivening,  spiritual, 
fertilizing  stream  that  comes  from  God 
because  of  our  virtuous  lives,  our  earn- 
est actions  in  seeking  after  truth.  May 


we  all  be  blessed  according  to  our  needs. 

Let  us  determine  to  cling  to  our 
heritage  here  in  this  land  where  we 
were  led  by  the  guiding  power  of  God, 
and  may  the  descendants  of  our  pioneer 
fathers  refuse  to  sell  their  birthright 
for  gold  lest  it  turn  to  a  "mess  of  pot- 
tage." May  we  remember  our  heritage 
in  this  Church  of  land,  of  water,  and 
of  spiritual  power,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Combined  Choruses  and  the 
congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"The  Spirit  of  God  Like  A  Fire  Is  Burn- 
ing." The  singing  was  led  by  Richard 
P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


1am  very  grateful  unto  my  Heavenly 
Father  for  the  opportunity  which  is 
mine  to  meet  with  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  in  this  great  conference  and 
to  partake  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  that 
is  here  with  us  in  such  rich  abundance. 

I  feel  indebted  to  the  Lord  for  the 
health  and  strength  which  is  mine,  and 
I  am  certain  that  he  has  blessed  me 
with  this  health  and  strength  in  answer 
not  only  to  my  own  prayers  but  also 
to  the  prayers  of  my  brethren  and  sisters 
in  the  Church. 

I  have  had  a  great  affection  for  the 
leaders  of  the  Church  as  far  back  as 
I  can  remember.  I  have  always  desired 
of  the  Lord  that  he  would  give  me  the 
strength  to  honor  and  to  sustain  those 
who  presided  over  me  in  the  priest- 
hood with  all  my  heart  and  soul,  and  I 
do  that  today.  I  am  grateful  for  the 
leadership  of  President  David  O.  McKay, 
and  of  President  Stephen  L  Richards 
and  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  I 
know  these  men  receive  from  our  Father 
in  heaven  his  inspiration  and  direction 
in  the  work  which  they  are  called  upon 
to  perform  for  you  and  for  me.  I  have 
this  great  affection  and  love  not  alone 
for  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  but 


for  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  as 
President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
and  all  my  associates  in  that  Council, 
and  all  of  the  General  Authorities.  In 
fact  my  affection  extends  to  all  of  my 
brethren  and  sisters.  No  man  could 
have  a  richer  heritage  on  the  face  of 
this  earth  than  to  be  really  worthy  to 
be  numbered  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 

The  statistics  that  we  heard  read  this 
morning  demonstrate  the  results  of  great 
inspiration  and  leadership.  I  say  that 
my  affection  for  my  brethren  in  the 
Church  creates  within  me  a  further 
and  similar  desire  that  we  might  have 
governmental  leaders  in  our  nation  and 
in  our  state  and  in  our  counties  and  in 
our  cities  of  the  same  calibre. 

I  am  always  impressed  when  I  read 
the  134th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants: 

We  believe  that  governments  were  insti- 
tuted of  God  for  the  benefit  of  man;  and 
that  he  holds  men  accountable  for  their 
acts  in  relation  to  them,  both  in  making 
laws  and  administering  them,  for  the  good 
and  safety  of  society. 

We  believe  that  no  government  can 
exist  in  peace,  except  such  laws  are  framed 


36 

Friday,  April  4 

and  held  inviolate  as  will  secure  to  each 
individual  the  free  exercise  of  conscience, 
the  right  and  control  of  property,  and  the 
protection  of  life. 

We  believe  that  all  governments  neces- 
sarily require  civil  officers  and  magistrates 
to  enforce  the  laws  of  the  same;  and  that 
such  as  will  administer  the  law  in  equity 
and  justice  should  be  sought  for  and  up- 
held by  the  voice  of  the  people  if  a  repub- 
lic, or  the  will  of  the  sovereign.  .  .  . 

We  do  not  believe  it  just  to  mingle 
religious  influence  with  civil  government, 
whereby  one  religious  society  is  fostered 
and  another  proscribed  in  its  spiritual 
privileges,  and  the  individual  rights  of  its 
members,  as  citizens,  denied.  (D.  &  C. 
134:1-3,  9.) 

But  that  does  not  mean,  because  we 
have  within  our  hearts  a  deep-seated 
religious  conviction,  that  we  are  at  the 
same  time  not  qualified  to  participate 
in  government.  Unless  we  have  faith 
in  God  and  fear  him  and  keep  his 
commandments,  we  can  hardly  be 
worthy  to  hold  high  positions  in  gov- 
ernment. The  Prophet  Joseph  has  told 
us  in  this  statement  through  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Lord  that  we  must  have- 
righteous  men  in  order  to  have  righteous 
government.  If  we  are  to  be  a  God- 
fearing nation  and  enjoy  the  blessings  of 
peace,  then  each  one  of  us  who  has  a 
faith  in  God  must  do  our  duty,  take 
our  part  to  accomplish  our  purpose  in 
government.  We  should  become  inti- 
mately familiar  with  those  who  are  ac- 
tive politically;  we  ought  to  be  part  and 
parcel  of  them.  They  should  not  be 
strangers  to  us.  We  should  see  to  it 
that  those  men  who  have  true  qualities 
of  leadership  are  placed  in  positions  of 
trust  and  responsibility  in  the  gov- 
ernment; these  fundamental  principles 
of  truth  apply  to  every  political  party 
alike.  There  is  no  hope  and  can  be 
no  hope  for  our  government,  or  any 
government,  to  which  this  principle 
does  not  apply. 

I  think  a  good  place  to  start  is  always 
at  home.  Each  one  of  us  should  re- 
solve that  we  in  and  of  ourselves  will 
develop  qualities  of  leadership  and  of 
honesty  and  of  integrity  and  of  justice 
and  equity.    We  should  be  willing  to 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

take  these  principles,  these  characteris- 
tics, the  ability  which  we  thus  create 
within  ourselves,  and  give  ourselves  to 
the  benefit  of  our  city  and  of  our  coun- 
ty and  of  our  state  and  of  our  nation. 

This  year  there  will  probably  be  no 
more  than  fifty  percent  of  the  qualified 
voters  in  this  great  nation  who  will 
exercise  their  franchise.  The  officers 
who  may  be  elected  in  the  great  elec- 
tions to  be  held  this  year  will  be  elected 
by  minorities  and  will  not  represent  the 
vote  or  the  will  of  the  majority.  You 
know  there  are  two  kinds  of  offenses  in 
the  world — offenses  of  commission  and 
offenses  of  omission.  We  sometimes  do 
things  that  we  should  not  do,  and  then 
again,  we  do  not  do  some  things  that 
we'  should.  I  hope  that  Latter-day 
Saints  will  not  permit  themselves, 
political-wise,  to  fall  into  this  latter 
category  and  be  classed  among  those 
who  give  offense  because  they  fail  to 
do  that  which  they  should  do.  I  would 
like  to  know  if  a  reason  exists  that 
would  justify  a  Latter-day  Saint  in  not 
exercising  his  franchise  for  the  party  and 
the  man  of  his  own  choice. 

No  political  party  is  justified  to  con- 
tinue in  existence  unless  it  clearly  states 
the  principles  which  it  advocates,  the 
platform  upon  which  its  candidates 
stand,  and  then  with  integrity,  when 
and  if  elected,  carry  out  those  principles 
and  live  up  to  that  platform.  Except  that 
be  the  case,  we  as  Latter-day  Saints 
should  not  align  ourselves  to  any  party, 
because  we  do  not  have  the  basis  upon 
which  we  can  make  an  intelligent  de- 
cision. We  must  know  what  they  stand 
for  before  we  can  favor  them  with  our 
vote.  I  do  not  ask  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  to  go  to  the  polls  and  just 
vote,  important  as  that  is;  but  that 
when  you  vote,  you  vote  intelligently 
for  those  principles  and  those  things 
and  those  men  which  will  give  to  you 
the  kind  of  government  you  want,  the 
kind  of  environment  that  you  desire 
for  yourself  and  for  your  posterity. 

We  have  received  a  great  deal  of 
light  concerning  the  things  of  life  from 
our  Heavenly  Father  through  the  reve- 
lations which  he  has  given  us.   We  are 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


37 


told  once  again  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  in  the  101st  section: 

According  to  the  laws  and  constitution  of 
the  people,  which  I  have  suffered  to  be 
established,  and  should  be  maintained  for 
the  rights  and  protection  of  all  flesh,  ac- 
cording to  just  and  holy  principles; 

That  every  man  may  act  in  doctrine  and 
principle  pertaining  to  futurity,  according 
to  the  moral  agency  which  I  have  given 
unto  him,  that  every  man  may  be  ac- 
countable for  his  own  sins  in  the  day  of 
judgment. 

Therefore,  it  is  not  right  that  any  man 
should  be  in  bondage  one  to  another. 

And  for  this  purpose  have  I  established 
the  Constitution  of  this  land,  by  the  hands 
of  wise  men  whom  I  raised  up  unto  this 
very  purpose,  and  redeemed  the  land  by 
the  shedding  of  blood.  (Ibid.,  101:77-80.) 

Can  we  accept  that  as  one  of  the 
sacred  tenets  of  our  faith  and  be  dere- 
lict in  our  duties  toward  our  nation? 
The  answer  to  me  seems  to  be  self- 
evident.   The  Apostle  Paul  of  old  said, 

For  if  the  trumpet  give  an  uncertain 
sound,  who  shall  prepare  himself  to  the 
battle?  (I  Cor.  14:8.) 

We  must  have  leadership  in  this 
nation  whose  voice  will  be  clear;  whose 
virtue,  clarity,  and  certainty  will  give 
us  the  assurance  that  the  course  the 
government  pursued  under  their  leader- 
ship is  right.  Then  we  can  put  our 
whole  heart  and  soul  back  of  our  gov- 
ernment and  sustain  those  who  preside 
in  government  and  feel  toward  them 
even  as  we  do  toward  those  who  have 
been  divinely  chosen  to  guide  and 
direct  the  affairs  of  the  Church. 


I  hope  and  pray,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  we  will  not  feel  that  poli- 
tics has  become  so  degraded  that  we 
are  too  good  to  participate.  If  any  of 
us  believe  politics  to  be  in  that  kind 
of  state,  we  need  only  to  enter  into 
politics,  go  into  it  with  our  honesty  and 
our  integrity  and  our  devotion  to  truth 
and  to  righteousness,  and  the  standards 
will  be  raised.  We  cannot  expect  in 
this  country  a  better  government  than 
the  leaders  are  good,  and  so  if  we 
want  a  good  government  we  must  have 
good  leaders.  Let  us  participate  in  our 
mass  meetings,  in  our  party  organiza- 
tion meetings,  in  our  conventions;  then 
when  we  go  to  the  polls,  we  may  have 
somebody  worthy  of  our  vote  on  our 
tickets. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  to  uphold  and 
sustain  the  great  Constitution  of  this 
nation  and  to  maintain  ourselves  pure 
and  unspotted  from  the  sins  of  the 
world  in  all  of  our  undertakings,  and 
call  down  the  blessings  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  upon  us  and  upon  our  neighbors. 

This  should  be  a  challenge  to  us  as 
members  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
and  to  all  our  friends  and  our  neighbors 
and  all  people  throughout  the  earth  who 
stand  in  favor  of  good  government,  for 
righteousness  in  government;  who  have 
and  foster  the  same  ideals  that  are  so 
close  to  our  hearts.  I  hope  and  pray  that 
the  Lord  will  thus  bless  us  all  that  we 
may  fully  accomplish  the  purposes  of  our 
creation,  and  be  grateful  to  him  day  by 
day  for  the  blessings  he  bestows  upon 
us,  and  this  I  ask  humbly  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


I pray  that  I  shall  have  your  faith 
and  prayers,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
while  I  occupy  this  position,  as  has 
been  the  case  with  those  who  have 
preceded  me.  And  I  thank  my  brethren 
who  have  offered  prayers  at  the  begin- 
ning of  these  meetings  in  behalf  of  all 
who  have  to  talk  to  you,  that  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  will  be  with  us. 


I  truly  am  very  grateful  for  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord;  the  blessings  that 
have  come  to  me  personally.  I  am  grate- 
ful for  the  blessings  which  have  come 
to  this  people  as  a  group,  individually 
as  well  as  collectively.  I  am  grateful 
for  the  privilege  of  living  in  this  age, 
which  is  a  choice  age — a  choice  dispen- 
sation. 


38 

Friday,  April  4 

It  seems  it  is  an  inherent  desire  for 
all  of  the  faithful  children  of  God  to 
receive  a  blessing  from  him.  It  has 
been  so  since  the  very  beginning.  Adam 
called  upon  God  and  received  blessings; 
and  then  in  his  turn  he  called  all  of 
his  righteous  descendants  together  at 
Adam-ondi-Ahman  and  blessed  them; 
and  they,  in  turn,  blessed  him. 

Noah,  in  his  turn,  received  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord,  and  then  after  the 
waters  of  the  flood  had  receded  and  he 
came  forth  from  the  ark,  he  blessed 
his  children. 

Abraham,  in  his  turn,  received  bless- 
ings from  the  Lord  and  blessed  others. 
We  today  are  receiving  the  benefits  of 
the  great  blessings  which  were  given  to 
Abraham  in  fulfilment  of  the  promises 
given  to  him. 

As  Abraham  was  departing  with  Lot, 
the  Lord  said  to  him: 

And  I  will  bless  them  that  bless  thee, 
and  curse  him  that  curseth  thee:  and  in 
thee  shall  all  families  of  the  earth  be 
blessed.  (Gen.  12:3.) 

And  today  we  are  realizing  the  ful- 
filment of  that  promise,  for  all  the 
families  of  the  earth  are  receiving  the 
blessings  of  the  Lord,  through  Abraham, 
more  than  they  have  ever  done  before. 

Isaac,  in  his  turn,  also  pronounced 
the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon  his 
descendants.  There  is  the  very  inter- 
esting story  of  the  blessing  of  Jacob  and 
Esau.  When  Isaac  was  old,  he  felt  the 
need  to  give  his  sons  blessings.  He  called 
•  Esau,  telling  him  to  go  out  and  kill  and 
prepare  venison  for  him.  He  said  "... 
make  me  savoury  meat,  such  as  I  love, 
and  bring  it  to  me,  that  I  may  eat; 
that  my  soul  may  bless  thee  before  I 
die."  (Ibid.,  27  A.)  And  Rebekah,  mother 
of  Esau  and  Jacob,  heard  him  and 
knowing  that  Jacob  was  divinely  called 
to  receive  the  birthright  blessings,  called 
Jacob  and  sent  him  to  fetch  two  kids, 
saying  that  she  would  prepare  savory 
meat  for  her  husband  such  as  he  loved, 
for  she  knew  how  to  prepare  it.  And 
thus  Rebekah  assisted  Jacob  to  receive 
the  blessings  of  birthright. 

Jacob  blessed  his  twelve  sons  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

gave  them  each  a  blessing  suited  to 
their  individual  rewards  and  pro- 
nounced promises  that  should  come  to 
them.  Joseph  received  a  special  bless- 
ing which  we  are  most  interested  in 
because  we  are  his  descendants,  the 
most  part  of  us,  and  the  blessings  of  the 
gospel  have  come  through  this  line,  for 
Joseph  Smith,  Senior,  was  a  true  de- 
scendant, through  Ephraim,  the  younger 
son  of  Joseph. 

You  know  the  story  of  how  Jacob 
blessed  Ephraim  and  Manasseh,  how 
he  crossed  his  hands  and  gave  them 
each  a  blessing  and  gave  unto  them 
promises.  The  history  of  blessings  is 
meager  from  then  until  now.  In  the 
Book  of  Mormon  we  are  given  the 
information,  definitely,  which  declares 
that  a  descendant  of  Joseph  should  be 
raised  up  in  these  the  last  days.  (See  II 
Nephi  3:14-15.)  It  has  been  made 
known  that  Joseph  Smith,  Senior,  was 
that  descendant,  and  he  received  the 
blessings  of  Ephraim. 

Then  in  this  day  and  age,  and  I  think 
if  our  records  were  more  complete,  we 
would  probably  find  something  similar 
with  those  of  ancient  times,  the  Lord 
tells  us  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
that 

It  is  the  duty  of  the  Twelve,  in  all  large 
branches  of  the  church,  to  ordain  evangeli- 
cal ministers,  as  they  shall  be  designated 
unto  them  by  revelation.  (D.  &  C.  107:39.) 

Thus  today  we  have  more  than  one 
patriarch;  we  have  one  or  more  in  each 
of  the  stakes  of  the  Church;  and  they 
are  represented  in  the  group  here  on 
my  right.  We  always  have  a  section 
here  reserved  for  the  stake  patriarchs. 
They  are  outstanding,  faithful  members 
of  the  Church,  who  have  been  given 
the  responsibility  of  blessing  the  people 
in  their  stakes,  blessing  those  who  de- 
sire blessings.  And  just  as  it  was  in 
ancient  times — today,  too,  the  Lord's 
people  desire  his  blessings.  And  as  a 
Church  we  have  the  priesthood  and 
the  authority  through  which  these  bless- 
ings may  be  given.  These  blessings 
given  today  are  more  formal  than  those 
given  in  ancient  times,  that  is,  judging 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


39 


from  the  meager  records  which  we  have. 
A  patriarchal  blessing  today,  given  by 
an  ordained  patriarch,  should  contain 
a  declaration  of  lineage,  that  is,  the 
tribe  of  Israel  through  which  the  prom- 
ises of  inheritance  shall  come,  even  as 
assignments  of  inheritances  were  given 
in  ancient  Israel. 

Now  we  know  that  some  of  the  in- 
habitants of  the  earth  are  not  descend- 
ants of  Israel.  We  know  that  some  of 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  who  join 
the  Church  are  not  direct  descendants 
of  Israel.  It  is  given  to  us  that  the 
descendants  of  Shem  and  Japheth,  sons 
of  Noah,  if  they  receive  the  gospel,  are 
entitled  to  the  priesthood.  Only'  the 
sons  of  Cain  are  not  entitled  to  the 
priesthood,  and  you  can  read  why  in 
the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  So  all  the 
descendants  of  Shem  and  Japheth,  as 
they  accept  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
are  entitled  to  the  blessings  of  Israel, 
because  that  was  the  promise  given  to 
Abraham,  that  through  him  all  the 
families  of  the  earth  should  be  blessed. 

And  so,  as  these  patriarchal  blessings 
are  given,  there  is  given  a  declaration 
of  lineage,  or  an  assignment;  for  a  pure 
Gentile  who  joins  the  Church  becomes 
by  adoption  of  the  seed  of  Abraham 
and  of  Israel.  (Gen.  12:3;  Abr.  2:11.) 

We  have  people  on  the  earth  who 
we  know  are  not  descendants  of  Israel, 
yet  in  the  acceptance  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  they  are  entitled  to  the 
blessings  of  Israel,  and  through  the 
power  of  inspiration  the  patriarch  will 
assign  them  to  Israel. 

It  is  required  that  patriarchal  bless- 
ings be  recorded  in  the  Church  records. 
The  body  of  the  blessing  usually  con- 
tains sacred  promises  for  comfort  or 
for  counsel  or  warning,  according  to 
certain  possibilities  of  blessings.  All 
is  predicated  upon  obedience  to  divine 
laws  and  faithfulness.  The  closing  of 
a  blessing  is  the  sacred  sealing  of  the 
Holy  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  The 
blessing  pronounced,  with  all  it  con- 
tains, should  serve  as  a  comfort  and 
guide  through  life  according  to  faith- 
fulness and  is  sealed  forever  upon  the 
conditions  of  faithfulness  to  the  laws 


of  God,  which  includes  the  laws  of 
nature.  Patriarchal  blessings  have  been 
a  source  of  guidance  and  comfort  to 
tens  of  thousands  of  members  of  the 
Church.  Their  faith  has  been  quick- 
ened and  strengthened  through  them. 

An  example  of  what  a  patriarchal 
blessing  can  do  came  to  me  in  a  story 
which  I  have  repeated  many  times, 
which  a  woman  told  me.  As  a  young 
woman  she  lived  in  a  small  town. 
When  she  finished  high  school,  there 
was  no  further  opportunity  to  continue 
her  education;  there  was  no  further  op- 
portunity to  get  work  so  that  she  could 
be  independent;  so  she  came  to  Salt 
Lake  City  where  she  found  herself  a 
job.  As  time  came  for  registration  at 
the  university,  she  became  very  anxious 
to  go  to  school  again,  and  knowing  that 
there  was  not  a  possibility,  under 
present  conditions,  she  felt  quite  dis- 
heartened. She  went  to  the  patriarch 
and  received  her  patriarchal  blessing, 
and  in  the  blessing  he  promised  her 
that  she  should  receive  a  good  education. 
She  was  elated,  and  she  went  out  of 
the  office  feeling  very  happy.  Before 
she  had  gone  half  a  block,  she  said, 
she  fell  to  earth  out  of  her  cloud  with 
a  realization  that  going  to  college  cost 
money,  and  she  did  not  have  any,  nor 
the  means  to  get  it.  The  opportunity 
and  possibility  of  going  to  college  at 
present  did  not  seem  to  be  at  all  possible, 
which  made  her  very  downhearted  again. 
And  the  thought  came  to  her  to  go 
visit  her  aunt,  who  was  living  in  Salt 
Lake  City.  Without  stopping  to  ana- 
lyze that  impression  she  turned,  and 
instead  of  going  back  to  work,  she 
went  to  visit  her  aunt  and  told  her 
aunt  of  her  experience,  cried  on  her 
shoulder,  and  her  aunt  said  to  her,  "I 
know  an  elderly  woman  who  lives 
down  the  street  a  few  blocks.  She  has 
at  various  times  helped  young  girls  get 
through  college  in  return  for  the  help 
the  girls  can  give  to  her.  I  do  not  know 
whether  she  has  help  now  or  not,  but," 
she  said,  "this  woman  knows  who  I 
am.  Go  down  and  see  her  and  tell 
her  I  sent  you." 

She  went  on  the  run  to  this  elderly 


40 

Friday,  April  4 

woman's  home,  and  within  two  weeks 
from  the  time  she  received  her  patri- 
archal blessing,  she  registered  at  the 
University  of  Utah,  signed  a  promissory 
note  to  pay  for  her  education,  and 
eventually  paid  for  it.  She  said  if  she 
had  stopped  to  question  the  first  im- 
pression she  got  to  go  visit  her  aunt, 
she  would  have  said  to  herself,  "Why 
should  I  go  visit  my  aunt  and  tell  her 
my  troubles?  I  came  to  Salt  Lake  City 
to  be  independent;  why  not  be  inde- 
pendent? She  cannot  help  me  with  my 
troubles;  she  has  enough  of  her  own. 
She  doesn't  have  space  in  her  home  to 
let  me  sleep  there,  let  alone  board  me, 
nor  help  me.  Why  need  I  go  and 
bother  my  aunt?"  But  she  did  not  stop 
to  analyze  that  impression;  she  acted 
on  it.  As  a  result  she  met  the  woman 
who  gave  her  the  opportunity  of  re- 
ceiving her  education. 

Similarly,  many  experiences  have 
come  to  people  in  making  decisions. 
I  have  had  many  experiences  myself 
of  giving  patriarchal  blessings,  and 
then  afterwards  the  individual  would 
comment  to  the  effect  that  he  had  now 
made  up  his  mind  and  knew  what 
course  to  follow.  Often  I  ask  whether 
individuals  have  any  particular  problem 
or  worry.  Just  recently,  a  young 
woman  said,  "Well,  Tom  is  com- 
ing home  in  a  few  months,  and  I  am 
going  to  wait  for  him,  and  then  we 
will  get  married  in  the  temple."  She 
said  another  young  man  had  been  want- 
ing her  to  marry  him,  but  she  said, 
"That  would  not  be  a  marriage  in  the 
temple;  I  am  going  to  wait  for  Tom." 
Many  times  these  experiences  come  to 
patriarchs. 

Many  men  and  women  have  been 
given  courage  to  carry  on,  in  battle  and 
at  home,  in  positions  of  responsibility 
in  Church  work,  and  even  the  will  to 
live  in  times  of  sickness  through  which 
they  have  been  raised  from  the  grip  of 
death  by  means  of  administration 
through  the  priesthood.  It  is  the  right 
and  privilege  of  every  baptized  member 
of  the  Church  to  receive  a  patriarchal 
blessing.  In  the  past  many  received 
more  than  one  blessing.    This  practice 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

has  been  discontinued.  After  a  person 
has  received  a  patriarchal  blessing 
through  an  ordained  patriarch,  in  which 
his  lineage  is  declared,  he  is  in  posses- 
sion of  his  patriarchal  blessing,  and  to 
repeat  the  lineage  is  superfluous.  We 
are  asked,  what  about  additional  bless- 
ings? These  additional  blessings  need 
not  be  given  by  an  ordained  patriarch. 
Through  the  patriarchal  order  of  the 
priesthood  it  is  the  right  and  duty  of 
a  father  to  minister  unto  his  own  indi- 
vidual family.  That  is,  the  father  in 
the  home  has  a  perfect  right  or  duty  to 
bless  his  children.  That  is,  if  the 
'  father  holds  the  priesthood  which 
authorizes  him  to  do  so,  he  may  bless 
his  own  children,  and  also  baptize  them, 
and  confirm  them,  with  full  consent 
and  appointment  from  the  duly  author- 
ized officers  in  charge. 

I  was  at  a  fast  and  testimony  meeting 
one  day,  and  the  bishop  received  a 
baby  in  his  arms,  from  a  woman  in 
the  congregation,  and  as  he  did  so,  he 
looked  around  the  room.  Finally  he 
said  hesitatingly,  "This  is  the  child  of 
Brother  and  Sister  Brown."  After  paus- 
ing a  minute  he  said,  "Brother  Jones 
will  bless  the  child."  A  man  who  was 
standing  in  the  group  of  officiators 
spoke  up  and  said,  "No,  Bishop,  that  is 
my  child,  I  will  bless  him."  And  so  the 
bishop  recognized  the  father.  He  had 
been  looking  around  the  audience  to 
find  the  father  and  not  seeing  him  was 
under  necessity  to  appoint  someone  else. 
But  the  father  spoke  up  and  said,  "I 
will  bless  the  child,"  and  he  did.  That 
was  correct. 

Bishops  should  not  only  invite  a 
father  to  administer  to  his  own  family 
but  should  also  seek  permission  before 
substituting  for  the  father.  Naturally, 
if  a  child  is  going  to  a  meeting,  say 
for  instance,  a  young  man  is  going  to  a 
meeting  where  he  is  to  be  ordained  a 
deacon,  and  the  family  knows  that  he 
is  to  be  ordained  a  deacon,  the  bishop 
should  invite  the  father,  if  he  is  a 
faithful  man,  to  ordain  his  son.  The 
bishop  is  the  father  of  the  ward.  It  is 
his  duty  to  be  the  father  of  those  families 
who  do  not  have  fathers  in  their  own 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


41 


homes  or  where  fathers  do  not  exercise 
their  priesthood;  and  it  is  the  right  of 
the  bishop  to  ordain  or  to  appoint  some- 
one to  ordain  boys  in  these  families.  It 
is  a  courtesy  for  the  bishop  to  invite  a 
father  to  ordain  his  own  son. 

An  ordained  stake  patriarch  has  the 
privilege,  by  the  same  token,  of  bless- 
ing his  own  family,  wherever  they  are. 
He  is  also  the  father  or  patriarch  for 
the  other  families  in  his  stake  who  do 
not  have  a  father  who  is  an  ordained 
patriarch.  A  stake  patriarch,  then,  is 
a  stake  officer,  and  he  does  not  have 
authority  to  officiate  outside  of  his 
stake,  only  as  he  may  give  blessings  to 
his  immediate  family.  Those  who  need 
or  desire  additional  blessings  may  re- 
ceive a  blessing  from  any  elder  in  the 
Church  but  not  to  be  recorded. 

I  have  an  example  in  my  mind,  and 
there  are  many  families  in  the  Church 
that  do  likewise,  where  the  father 
blesses  the  children  when  they  are 
named;  he  baptizes  them  when  they 
are  of  age;  he  confirms  them  and  or- 
dains them  to  the  various  offices  of 
the  priesthood  as  they  grow  in  position 
to  be  so  ordained,  but  always  with  the 
consent  and  approval  of  the  bishop. 
When  children  start  out  to  a  higher 
school  of  learning,  when  they  leave 
home  to  go  on  a  mission,  when  they 
leave  home  to  go  into  the  service,  and 
at  the  time  of  their  marriage,  a  father 
may  bless  his  children  and  place  the 
blessings  in  his  family  record,  rightly, 
for  the  benefit  of  the  family,  and  the 
family  reflects  the  spirit  of  those  bless- 
ings. 

Now,  may  the  blessings  of  the  Lord 
be  with  all  of  us  and  help  us  to  magnify 
our  callings  in  the  priesthood.  The 
Lord  has  told  us  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  section  84,  verse  33, 

For  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the  obtaining 
these  two  priesthoods  of  which  I  have 
spoken,  and  the  magnifying  their  calling, 
are  sanctified  by  the  Spirit  unto  the  re- 
newing of  their  bodies. 

And  if  you  will  continue  reading  in 
section  eighty-four,  the  next  few  verses, 


you  will  get  more  instructions  regarding 
that  priesthood. 

Brethren,  magnify  the  callings  of  your 
priesthood,  and  the  strength  of  the  Lord 
will  be  with  us  all,  which  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Eldred 
G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to  the  Church. 

Tonight,  in  this  building,  there  will 
be  held  a  meeting  at  which  special 
instruction  will  be  given  regarding  new 
plans  for  missionary  work.  Presidencies 
of  missions,  the  Missionary  Committee, 
General  Authorities,  stake  authorities, 
ward  authorities,  are  all  invited.  And 
undoubtedly  there  will  be  room  for  the 
public.  The  sisters  are  invited  as  well. 
I  did  not  imply  by  that  that  the  sisters 
are  not  part  of  the  public,  the  better 
part. 

For  the  benefit  of  those  who  have 
been  listening  in,  I  should  like  to  say 
that  the  members  of  the  congregation 
here  in  the  Tabernacle,  have  been  look- 
ing all  day  at  some  very  magnificent 
bouquets  of  lilies,  calla  lilies.  They 
stretch  from  the  left  of  the  top  pulpit 
to  the  right  an  equal  distance,  and 
bouquets  of  three  each  are  extending 
from  the  top  pulpit  down  to  the  first 
seat  in  the  audience.  Silent  messengers 
of  love.  These  flowers  are  particularly 
associated  with  one  of  the  two  greatest 
events  in  the  history  of  the  world — the 
resurrection  of  our  Lord. 

You  will  be  pleased  to  know  that 
these  lovely  flowers  have  been  raised 
and  furnished  to  us  by  the  High  Priests 
of  the  Berkeley  Stake  of  California.  In 
your  behalf  we  extend  sincere  thanks 
and  appreciation  for  this  contribution 
to  our  conference. 

We  are  indebted,  not  for  the  silent 
message,  but  for  the  inspirational  mes- 
sages that  we  had  from  the  members  of 
the  Combined  Choruses  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University.  I  do  not  know  how 
you  have  been  impressed  today,  but  just 
the  presence  of  these  young  people  in 
such  large  numbers  has  been  an  inspira- 


42 

Friday,  April  4 

tion  to  me.  I  am  sure  it  has  to  all,  and 
their  singing  has  been  truly  of  the  high- 
est quality. 

Music,  it  is  said,  is  the  fourth  great 
need  of  the  human  soul.  You  members  of 
this  great  chorus,  have  supplied  that 
today.  We  hope  you  will  feel  as  proud 
and  thankful  of  your  school  that  you 
have  represented  today  so  ably,  as  these 
men  and  women  whom  you  have  in- 
spired by  your  singing  are  of  you. 
And  to  you  directors,  we  extend  thanks 
and  appreciation.  We  are  sure  that  the 
members  of  the  faculty  who  are  here, 
largely  in  a  body,  and  President  Wilk- 
inson, are  more  than  thankful  and 
pleased  for  the  rendition  of  these  excel- 
lent singing  numbers  today.  The  Lord 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Doj) 

bless  these  young  people.  We  are  proud 
of  them,  and  of  all  whom  they  represent. 

After  the  singing  by  the  Combined 
Choruses  of  "Praise  the  Lord,"  arranged 
and  conducted  by  Brother  Crawford 
Gates,  Elder  Alma  L.  Petersen,  formerly 
twice  president  of  the  Danish  Mission, 
will  offer  the  benediction,  and  this  Con- 
ference will  be  adjourned  until  tomorrow 
morning  at  ten  o'clock. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  sang  "Praise  the  Lord," 
after  which  the  closing  prayer  was  of- 
fered by  Elder  Alma  Petersen,  formerly 
president  of  the  Danish  Mission. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10:00 
a.m.,  Saturday,  April  5. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  conference  reconvened  Saturday 
morning,  April  5,  at  10  o'clock  a.m., 
with  President  David  O.  McKay  presid- 
ing and  conducting  the  services. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

I  will  report  to  you  a  telephone  mes- 
sage, which  has  just  been  received,  not 
to  cast  a  damper  on,  our  conference  pro- 
ceedings, but  by  way  of  a  warning  to 
our  bishops  and  presidents  of  stakes, 
particularly,  providing  what  is  said  is 
fact. 

"President  Schwendiman  of  the  Wells 
Stake  just  called  us,  reporting  that  the 
Belvedere  Ward  Building  is  on  fire.  The 
chapel  is  almost  completely  destroyed, 
the  roof  gone,  and  the  west  wall  has 
caved  in.  They  may  be  able  to  save 
the  recreation  hall.  We  want  you  to 
know  we  are  doing  everything  possible 
to  save  part  of  the  building.  The  fire- 
men are  doing  a  good  job.  This  is  one 
of  our  nicest  chapels,  dedicated  in  1928. 
The  cause  of  the  fire  was  probably  de- 
fective wiring." 

Now,  we  read  this  announcement  as 
a  word  of  caution  to  those  who  are 
building  the  nearly  400  chapels  now 


under  construction,  and  as  a  suggestion 
that  careful  inspection  be  made  of  our 
present  buildings. 

For  the  information  of  the  radio  and 
television  audience,  we  announce  that 
this  is  the  third  session  of  the  one  hun- 
dred twenty-second  annual  conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt 
Lake  City. 

These  services  and  all  general  sessions 
of  the  Conference  will  be  broadcast  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall 
over  a  loud  speaking  system  and  by 
television. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will 
be  broadcast  over  Station  KSL  of  Salt 
Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through 
KSL,  over  the  stations  named  in  the 
first  session  of  the  Conference.  This 
session  will  be  televised  also  over  the 
KSL  television  station,  channel  five. 

The  singing  for  this  session  will  be 
by  the  congregation,  with  Elder  Richard 
P.  Condie  conducting,  and  Elder  Roy 
M.  Darley  at  the  organ.  We  shall  begin 
these  services  by  the  congregation  sing- 
ing, "High  On  the  Mountain  Top," 
conducted  by  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


43 


The  congregation  will  please  remain 
seated  during  this  singing. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  E.  Bentley  Mitchell,  formerly 
president  of  the  Tahitian  Mission. 

The  congregation,  with  Richard  P. 
Condie  conducting,  sang  the  hymn 
"High  On  the  Mountain  Top." 

Elder  E.  Bentley  Mitchell,  former 
president  of  the  Tahitian  Mission  of- 
fered the  invocation. 


Singing  by  the  congregation,  "Re- 
deemer of  Israel." 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  first  speaker  this  morning  will  be 
President  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church.  Presi- 
dent Richards  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Delbert  Leon  Stapley,  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


I sat  in  the  Tabernacle  a  short  time  ago 
listening  to  beautiful  music.  After 
the  concert  was  over  I  was  a  little 
embarrassed  inwardly  to  recognize  that 
I  had  heard  but  very  little  of  what  went 
forward,  for  almost  at  the  beginning  of 
the  program  my  thoughts  turned  to  this 
great  building  in  which  we  are  met 
today.  Somehow  or  other,  its  place  in 
our  history  and  its  connotations  assumed 
such  proportions  in  my  thinking  that  I 
decided  that  it  might  be  worthy  of  a 
little  of  our  attention  as  we  ponder  the 
progress  and  mission  of  the  restored 
Church  of  our  Lord. 

This  Tabernacle  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  erected 
on  what  we  designate  as  Temple  Square 
in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  has  come  to  be 
one  of  the  most  interesting  and  widely 
known  buildings  in  western  America, 
and  perhaps  in  all  America,  excluding 
structures  at  the  national  capital  and  at 
points  of  great  historic  interest  in  the 
formation  of  the  republic. 

The  first  work  on  the  Tabernacle  was 
begun  in  the  spring  and  summer  of 
1863.  The  first  foundation  stone  was 
laid  July  26,  1864.  The  Tabernacle  was 
completed,  so  far  as  to  be  usable,  by 
October  6,  1867,  when  the  first  con- 
ference was  held  in  the  building.  The 
following  is  a  quoted  notation  in  the 
record: 

"The  gates  to  the  Temple  Block  were 
opened  at  nine  o'clock,  and  the  people 
flooded  in.  Long  before  ten  o'clock, 
the  time  for  the  commencement  of  the 


conference,  the  seats  in  the  great  Taber- 
nacle were  filled,  the  aisles  and  door- 
ways were  crowded,  and  many  were  left 
outside.  The  stand  was  filled  with  the 
Church  officials  and  the  various  choirs 
who  were  present  to  take  part  in  the 
service." 

The  conditions  here  described  are 
not  difficult  for  the  present  generation 
to  visualize. 

The  organ  was  only  one-third  com- 
pleted by  this  time  but  was  used  to 
accompany  the  singing.  Temporary 
seats  were  used  since  the  installation  of 
permanent  seats  was  not  completed 
until  sometime  during  the  summer  of 
1868.  The  gallery  was  not  completed 
until  later,  and  was  first  used  at  the 
postponed  general  conference  of  the 
Church  on  May  5,  1870.  It  is  recorded 
that  this  additional  seating  capacity  was 
much  appreciated,  and  that  the  installa- 
tion of  the  gallery  improved  the 
acoustics  of  the  building. 

The  Tabernacle  was  not  dedicated 
until  October  of  1875.  I  shall  speak  of 
the  dedication  later. 

Perhaps  one  of  the  first  significant 
items  about  the  building  is  its  size.  It 
is  250  feet  long  by  150  feet  wide;  65 
feet  to  the  ceiling,  75  feet  to  the  top  of 
the  roof,  standing  upon  44  stone  pillars, 
with  16  doors  10  feet  wide,  and  4  doors 
4y2  feet  wide,  allowing  the  exit  of 
13,000  persons  in  5  minutes.  Its  archi- 
tect, Henry  Grow,  claimed  that  it  was 
the  largest  hall  in  the  world  unsup- 
ported by  columns.    I  have  made  no 


44 

Saturday,  April  5 

research  to  determine  for  how  long  a 
time  the  architect's  statement  may  have 
been  true. 

The  huge  capacity  of  the  building  is 
most  tangible  evidence  of  the  firm  con- 
viction of  the  builders  in  the  growth 
and  destiny  of  the  cause  they  upheld. 
Without  its  great  size  it  never  could 
have  served  its  mighty  purpose.  In  the 
early  days  of  our  settlement  in  these 
valleys  of  the  mountains,  communica- 
tion was  very  difficult.  Even  after  the 
coming  of  the  telegraph  and  the  rail- 
roads, people  had  to  come  and  see  and 
hear  to  get  correct  impressions  and  in- 
formation. Had  the  building  been 
smaller,  countless  thousands  would  have 
been  deprived  of  opportunities  and 
blessings  they  have  most  highly  prized. 
Then,  too,  it  seems  to  me  worthy  of 
note  that  the  building  was  built  just 
about  as  large  as  it  could  have  been 
built  so  that  an  audience  within  it 
could  be  made  to  hear,  long  before  the 
day  of  electrical  magnification  of  sound. 
The  acoustics  of  the  Tabernacle  have 
been  the  subject  of  comment  by  scien- 
tific persons  and  others  for  many  years. 
I  don't  know  that  a  full  treatise  has 
ever  been  written,  but  it  would  make  a 
deserving  and  interesting  thesis.  This 
great  structure,  enormous  at  the  time 
of  its  building,  is  the  physical  embodi- 
ment of  a  mighty  concept  that  the  work 
of  God  is  expansive,  all-embracing,  with 
room  for  all  who  will  come  and  listen 
and  receive. 

The  Tabernacle  has  been  a  great 
cultural  center.  For  eighty  years  it  has 
housed  substantially  all  of  the  major 
concerts,  symphonies,  bands,  choirs,  and 
vocal  and  instrumental  artists  who  have 
come  to  this  section  of  the  country. 
It  is  safe  to  say  that  without  it  the  com- 
munities in  this  area  would  have  been 
deprived  of  innumerable  opportunities 
to  see  and  hear  the  outstanding  talent 
of  the  world.  It  has  been  the  scene 
of  great  pageants  that  will  long  live  in 
our  memories;  and  in  addition  to  being 
the  greatest  stage  for  artistic  presenta- 
tions in  our  community,  it  has  been  a 
place  of  instruction  and  rehearsal  for 
thousands  upon  thousands  of  children, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

young  people,  and  adults,  developing 
talent  and  artistic  appreciation  wholly 
beyond  our  power  to  measure.  Through- 
out the  years  the  building  has  generally 
been  contributed  to  almost  every  con- 
ceivable cultural  project  which  has  come 
our  way. 

In  thus  extending  the  use  of  the 
building,  the  Church  has  had  what  I 
believe  to  be  a  unique  experience.  I 
don't  know  that  there  is  a  comparable 
situation  in  the  country.  It  has  always 
been  the  effort  to  maintain  standards 
of  conduct  in  this  building  and  on  the 
grounds  roundabout  which  comport  with 
the  beliefs  and  standards  of  the  Church. 
Those  who  come  here  are  asked  not  to 
smoke  or  drink  or  use  profane  language, 
and  I  think  that,  with  few  exceptions, 
they  who  are  not  of  our  faith,  and  who 
do  not  practise  our  standards,  have  been 
sufficiently  respectful  of  our  views  to 
observe  the  decorum  of  this  building. 
We  appreciate  their  consideration. 

This  Tabernacle  has  been,  in  some 
respects,  a  civic  center.  It  has  been  a 
forum  for  Presidents  of  the  United 
States,  candidates  for  the  Presidency, 
notables  from  foreign  countries,  and 
lecturers,  and  for  the  discussion  of  some 
of  the  most  important  issues  which  have 
ever  confronted  the  nation.  It  has  been 
used  as  a  gathering  hall  for  great  na- 
tional conventions,  and  it  has  played 
a  part  in  the  advancement  of  important 
civic  causes.  It  has  paid  tributes  of 
homage  and  honor  to  our  national 
heroes;  it  has  met  the  demands  of 
emergency;  it  has  been  through  the 
years  an  invaluable  asset  in  our  com- 
munity life. 

More  important  than  any  of  these, 
however,  in  the  history  of  this  great 
Tabernacle,  is  its  place  and  function  as 
a  house  of  worship. 

Since  singing  usually  begins  our  pub- 
lic worship,  at  this  point  I  would  like 
to  speak  a  little  of  the  choirs  of  the 
Tabernacle.  Here  is  and  has  been  for 
over  seventy-five  years  the  home  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir.  I  would  not  ven- 
ture to  say  whether  the  Tabernacle 
has  made  the  choir  or  the  choir  has 
made  the  Tabernacle  famous.     It  is 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


45 


sufficient  to  know  that  all  through  the 
years  we  have  had  a  great  choir  in  a 
great  setting.  As  many  as  sixty  years 
ago  the  Tabernacle  Choir  had  a  na- 
tional reputation.  Through  eisteddfods, 
its  high  placement  in  contest  in  the 
World's  Fair,  and  through  concerts  in 
big  cities,  east  and  west,  it  early  at- 
tained renown  in  musical  circles.  In 
recent  times,  through  national  and  in- 
ternational broadcasts,  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  and  the  Spoken  Word  are  house- 
hold words  throughout  the  land.  Dur- 
ing its  history,  both  before  and  after 
enlarged  facilities  became  available,  two 
aspects  of  its  work  have  been  out- 
standing and  conspicuous:  First,  the  de- 
votion of  the  members;  and  next,  the 
excellence  of  its  leadership.  I  doubt 
if  any  comparable  volunteer  organiza- 
tion of  its  size  and  responsibilities  can 
present  as  fine  a  record  for  as  long  a 
time.  The  Church  is  and  has  been  for 
these  many  years  proud  of  this  great 
organization,  and  I  believe  we  all  feel 
a  lasting  debt  of  gratitude  to  the  great 
conductors,  the  great  organists  and  tech- 
nicians, and  the  great  members  of  this 
illustrious  organization.  I  attribute  their 
greatness,  in  large  measure,  to  the  deeply 
religious  fervor  which  has  always  actu- 
ated them.  I  know  that  with  their 
artistic  temperaments  they  have  loved 
to  sing,  but  the  consistency  of  their 
performance  has  come  out  of  a  sense  of 
conscientious  duty  and  opportunity  to 
serve  the  Lord  and  advance  his  king- 
dom. From  that  sentiment  have  come 
some  of  the  great  contributions  which 
the  choir  has  made — contributions 
which  breathe  the  spirit  and  essence 
of  the  latter-day  work,  contributions 
which  have  inspirited  the  missionary 
for  his  work,  which  have  honored  and 
venerated  the  pioneers  who  laid  the 
foundations,  which  have  extolled  the 
glory  and  virtue  of  Christ  our  Lord, 
and  his  honored  prophets,  and  which 
have  brought  comfort  and  solace  to  the 
poor,  the  discouraged  and  bereaved. 
Here  is  a  choir  which,  through  the 
generations,  has  seen  purpose  in  its 
work,  which  has  striven  steadfastly  to 
advance  a  great  cause,  which  has  made 


art  serve  its  Author,  the  Lord  of  the 
universe.  God  bless  our  Tabernacle 
Choir,  from  the  beginning  through  the 
generations,  as  an  emissary  of  art  and 
truth  in  the  earth. 

Housed  within  the  building  is  the 
great  organ.  Its  impressive  facade  of 
colossal  pipes  and  ornamental  columns 
and  caps  makes  it  appear  as  an  ornate 
temple  within  the  auditorium,  beautiful 
and  intriguing  to  behold.  The  history 
of  its  initial  construction  is  itself  a 
glorious  record  of  pioneer  achievement. 
Its  melodic  voice  now  heard  in  nearly 
all  civilized  portions  of  the  globe  has 
been  a  thing  alive,  proclaiming  in 
sonorous  and  tender  tones  the  solemn 
and  the  sweet  message  of  the  Savior's 
gospel  to  all  who  have  the  heart  and 
the  ear  to  interpret  and  apply.  Just  as 
the  choir  is  integral  with  the  Taber- 
nacle, so  is  the  organ  with  both. 

I  stand  today  in  a  pulpit  sanctified 
by  its  history.  When  I  recall  the  noble 
servants  of  our  Heavenly  Father  who 
have  stood  here  and  given  inspired 
counsel  to  the  people,  and  borne  testi- 
mony with  such  power  and  conviction 
and  spirit  as  to  electrify  every  soul  who 
heard;  when  I  contemplate  the  opera- 
tion of  the  still,  small  voice,  which  has 
come  from  simple  and  lowly  words 
given  here,  which  have  touched  the 
hearts  and  sympathies  of  the  people; 
when  I  think  of  the  vast  volume  of 
precious  truth  which  has  been  pro- 
claimed from  this  stand,  I  feel  very 
small  and  weak  within  it.  My  only 
comfort  comes  from  the  realization  that 
the  noble  ones  who  have  graced  this 
pulpit  have  been  called  to  speak  here, 
as  I  have  been  called,  and  that  they 
were  common  men,  so  far  as  the  aristoc- 
racy of  the  world  is  concerned,  drawn 
from  all  walks  of  life,  just  as  my  breth- 
ren and  I  are  today. 

What  a  difference  in  the  history  of 
the  Tabernacle  it  would  have  made  had 
the  building  come  to  be  merely  a  great 
preacher's  church.  We  have  had  in 
America  such  preachers  and  such 
churches.  For  periods  of  time  eloquent 
men  have  enthralled  audiences,  achieved 
wide  distinction,  and  have  undoubtedly 


46 

Saturday,  April  S 

done  much  good.  In  the  providence 
of  the  Lord,  this  pulpit  has  never  been 
any  one  man's  forum.  Rather  it  has 
been  the  oracle  of  a  divine  dispensation 
where  the  cause  has  overshadowed  the 
man,  where  humility  has  higher  rating 
than  self-assurance,  where  worship  is 
measured  in  deeds  rather  than  protesta- 
tions. 

Ponder  for  a  moment,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  all  who  listen,  the 
glorious  and  vital  truths  which  have 
been  proclaimed  in  this  building — the 
nature  and  composition  of  the  God- 
head, the  organization  of  the  universe, 
the  history  and  placement  of  man  in 
the  earth,  his  purpose  in  living,  and  the 
divine  destiny  set  for  him,  the  laws 
governing  his  conduct  and  his  eligibility 
for  exaltation  in  the  celestial  presence, 
the  true  concept  of  family  life  in  the 
eternal  progression  of  the  race,  the  truth 
about  liberty  and  the  place  of  govern- 
ments in  the  earth,  the  correct  concept 
of  property,  its  acquisition  and  distribu- 
tion, the  sure  foundations  for  peace, 
brotherhood,  and  universal  justice.  All 
these  elemental  things,  and  many  others 
incident  thereto,  have  been  the  burden 
of  the  message  of  truth  which  has  come 
from  this  building  through  the  genera- 
tions. 

These  messages  have  not  changed 
with  the  passing  of  time.  The  Lord  re- 
vealed these  enduring  principles.  They 
are  part  and  parcel  of  eternal  truth. 
Man  may,  by  his  faithful  research  and 
study,  discover  more  about  them,  but 
he  will  never  change  them.  I  would 
not  discourage  the  inquiring  mind  in  its 
exploration  of  the  universe  and  quest 
for  truth.  My  only  caution  is  to  begin 
with  recognition  of  the  divine  source 
of  truth  and  the  revealed  word  of  God. 

What  confidence  and  assurance  it 
brings  to  us  to  know  that  our  men  and 
women  of  today,  surrounded  by  an  en- 
vironment radically  different  from  that 
of  our  forebears  who  brought  this  great 
building  into  existence,  proclaim  the 
same  doctrine  as  did  they.  How  up- 
setting it  would  be  if  we  had  to  choose 
between  the  principles  and  doctrines  of 
their  time  and  ours.  We  in  this  Taber- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

nacle  hear  the  same  message  as  did  the 
people  in  Kirtland  and  Nauvoo. 

It  is  true  that  methods  and  practices 
change.  They  have  done  in  the  past, 
and  they  may  be  expected  to  in  the 
future.  It  is  within  the  province  of  a 
receptive  priesthood,  obedient  to  the 
inspiration  of  our  Father,  to  adopt  and 
adjust  methods,  looking  toward  the 
advancement  of  his  kingdom.  It  is  also 
within  the  province  of  his  chosen  serv- 
ants to  interpret  and  apply  the  law,  but 
they  will  never  change  it,  for  the  law 
of  God  is  eternal. 

I  wish  to  say  a  word  about  the  com- 
fort and  solace  which  have  come  to 
our  Father's  children  in  this  great  build- 
ing. Funeral  services  have  been  held 
here  for  many  noble  men  and  some 
women.  Heavenly  music  has  been  ren- 
dered, so  inspiring  and  touching  that  it 
seemed  as  if  those  from  the  other  world 
could  have  joined  in  the  singing.  Ser- 
mons depicting  the  transition  into  im- 
mortality, and  expounding  the  atone- 
ment and  redemption  wrought  by  our 
Savior,  have  been  given  with  such  con- 
vincing assurance  as  to  elevate  the  ag- 
grieved and  despondent  to  the  sublim- 
ity of  resignation,  hope,  and  firm  faith. 
Within  these  sacred  walls  have  the  great 
of  our  community  found  opportunity 
for  the  expression  of  their  noblest 
thoughts  and  convictions,  and  from  here 
they  have  been  laid  to  rest  in  the  clos- 
ing of  their  lives.  All  the  life  dramas 
that  have  here  been  enacted,  all  the 
vital  episodes  in  this  historic  setting 
will  never  be  recounted;  but  they  are 
all  known  to  one  who  keeps  the  record, 
and  every  resolution,  every  change  of 
heart,  every  contrition  arising  out  of  the 
service  rendered  in  this  building,  will 
be  a  fitting  tribute  to  the  purposes  it 
has  served. 

In  some  respects  the  Tabernacle  may 
appropriately  be  designated  as  the  center 
of  our  missionary  work.  More  sermons 
expounding  the  doctrines  of  the  Church 
and  calling  the  world  to  repentance  and 
defining  the  way  to  life  eternal  have 
been  preached  from  this  pulpit  than 
from  any  other  place  in  the  Church. 
These  sermons,  testifying  to  the  divine 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


47 


calling  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in 
the  restoration  of  the  holy  gospel,  have 
been  heard  not  only  by  the  vast  con- 
gregations who  have  assembled  here,  but 
also  they  have  been  printed,  translated 
into  various  languages,  and  circulated 
in  many  countries  throughout  the  earth. 
The  pronouncements  from  this  very 
stand  have  furnished  to  our  armies  of 
missionaries,  in  large  measure,  the  mate- 
rial for  their  work  among  the  peoples 
to  whom  they  are  sent.  In  the  earlier 
days  the  missionaries  were  personally 
called  from  the  stand  in  this  Taber- 
nacle. One  can  well  imagine  the 
thrill  and  deep  impression  made  by  such 
procedure.  Here  the  courses  of  life 
were  changed  by  assignments  from  the 
Presiding  Brethren.  Here  the  spirit  of 
sacrifice  chastened  the  soul,  and  men 
and  women  were  dedicated  to  the  work 
of  God.  Here  was  the  true  spirit  of 
missionary  work — love  and  sacrifice  for 
fellow  man — developed  and  fostered. 

In  more  recent  times  the  Tabernacle, 
with  its  wonderful  Sunday  morning  pro- 
gram, has  made  an  invaluable  contribu- 
tion to  our  missionary  endeavor  in 
bringing  to  our  missionaries  a  more 
kindly  and  considerate  reception  as  they 
bear  the  message  of  the  gospel  from 
door  to  door  out  in  the  world.  Also  in 
later  years,  with  visitors  to  Temple 
Square  reaching  more  than  a  million  a 
year,  this  historic  structure  has  achieved 
a  position  subordinate  to  but  few  places 
in  the  country  in  tourist  interest.  Thou- 
sands there  are  who  come  here  every 
year,  whose  unfavorable  preconceptions 
are  altered,  and  who  must  go  away  with 
unforgettable  impressions  emanating 
from  the  teachings  and  influences  com- 
ing from  this  building  and  the  grounds 
round  about.  Surely  a  large  part  of 
Isaiah's  prophecy  has  been  realized. 
The  Lord's  house  has  been  established 
in  the  top  of  the  mountains,  and  many 
nations  flow  unto  it.  We  await  the 
day  which  will  surely  come  when  the 
remainder  of  this  great  prediction  shall 
be  fulfilled,  when 

.  .  .  many  people  shall  go  and  say,  Come 
ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain  of  the 


Lord,  to  the  house  of  the  God  of  Jacob; 
and  he  will  teach  us  of  his  ways,  and  we 
will  walk  in  his  paths:  for  out  of  Zion  shall 
go  forth  the  law,  and  the  word  of  the  Lord 
from  Jerusalem.     (Isaiah  2:3.) 

Can  we  doubt,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  these  things  have  been 
wrought  by  the  hand  and  power  of  the 
Lord?  In  all  humility  I  bear  witness 
that  here  is  the  seat  of  the  government 
of  the  kingdom  of  God,  here  is  the 
place  where  the  authorized  servants  of 
our  Lord  are  sustained  and  confirmed 
by  the  voice  of  the  people.  Here  in 
this  venerated  Tabernacle  has  every 
President  of  the  Church,  save  only  one, 
been  upheld  as  prophet,  seer,  and  reve- 
lator,  and  President  of  the  Church  of 

{esus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  From 
tere  has  gone  forth  the  law  out  of 
Zion,  and  the  blessings,  the  love  and 
compassion  of  the  servants  of  the  Lord 
for  his  children. 

For  nearly  half  a  century  I  have  been 
the  beneficiary  of  the  teachings  and  the 
influence  coming  from  this  historic 
building.  I  thank  God  for  it.  I  do 
not  wish  to  worship  things  material, 
but  I  bow  before  the  inspired  vision 
and  the  lofty  aspirations  which  brought 
this  sacred  edifice  into  being.  If  my 
regard  for  it,  and  my  meager  recital  of 
the  part  it  has  played  in  the  advance- 
ment of  beauty  and  righteousness  and 
truth  in  the  earth  shall  bring  any 
measure  of  increased  deference  and  re- 
spect for  the  Tabernacle  and  the  holy 
cause  it  represents,  I  shall  be  profoundly 
grateful. 

I  said  I  would  refer  again  to  the 
dedication  of  this  building.  The  nota- 
tion in  the  record  is  that  the  dedicatory 
prayer  of  the  "New  Tabernacle  in  Salt 
Lake  City  was  read  by  Elder  John 
Taylor"  on  Saturday,  October  9,  1875. 
In  my  opinion  the  prayer  is  a  master- 
piece in  composition,  and  in  its  compre- 
hensive recital  of  the  conditions  and 
aspirations  of  the  people  at  that  time. 
It  breathes  a  spirit  of  humility,  repent- 
ance, deep  gratitude,  and  a  faith  so 
realistic  and  compelling  as  to  over- 
come all  obstacles  in  the  achievement 
of  the  mighty  destiny  conceived  for 


48 

Saturday,  April  5 

God's  work  in  the  world.  I  wish  every 
member  of  the  Church  could  read  it. 
The  Deseret  News  printed  it  three- 
quarters  of  a  century  ago.  Perhaps  they 
might  care  to  do  it  again  at  some 
convenient  time.  This  remarkable 
prayer  went  into  great  detail.  In  it  were 
dedicated  not  only  the  usual  components 
of  a  great  building,  but  also  "the  mortar 
which  binds  the  foundation  stones  to- 
gether," the  "nails,  bolts,  and  straps  of 
iron,  of  copper,  and  the  brass,  the  zinc, 
the  tin,  and  the  solder  wherewith  the 
metal  is  soldered  together,"  the  plaster 
of  the  building,  even  "all  the  lath  and 
the  nails  and  the  sand  and  the  lime," 
the  locks  and  the  hinges  on  the  doors 
and  windows,  and  the  paint  and  the 
varnish  "and  all  the  ornamentation  of 
this  building,  both  within  and  without." 
All  these  minute  things  represented 
work  and  sacrifice  which  made  them 
sacred. 

Every  portion  of  the  building  was 
dedicated  that  it  might  fulfil  its  sacred 
purpose.  Listen  to  the  words  regarding 
this  historic  rostrum,  where  my  asso- 
ciates of  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church  now  sit  in  your  presence:  "And 
we  dedicate  and  consecrate  that  por- 
tion of  this  house  where  our  president 
and  thy  servants  now  are,  to  be  a  holy 
and  sacred  place  wherein  thy  servants 
may  stand  forth  to  declare  thy  words 
and  minister  unto  thy  people  in  the 
name  of  thy  Son  forever.  .  .  . 

"May  thy  holy  angels  and  minister- 
ing spirits  be  in  and  round  about  this 
habitation,  that  when  thy  servants  are 
called  upon  to  stand  in  these  sacred 
places,  to  minister  unto  thy  people, 
the  visions  of  eternity  may  be  open  to 
their  view,  and  they  may  be  filled  with 
the  spirit  and  inspiration  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  and  the  gift  and  power  of  God; 
and  let  all  thy  people  who  hearken 
to  the  words  of  thy  servants  drink  freely 
at  the  fountain  of  the  waters  of  life, 
that  they  may  become  wise  unto  salva- 
tion, and  thereby  overcome  the  world 
and  be  prepared  for  an  everlasting  in- 
heritance in  the  celestial  kingdom  of 
our  God.  .  .  . 

"We  pray  thee  to  bless  the  Twelve 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Apostles;  fill  them  with  the  spirit  of 
their  office  and  calling,  clothe  them 
with  the  intelligence  of  heaven,  the 
light  of  revelation,  and  the  gift  and 
power  of  God." 

Then  followed  prayers,  in  the  order 
indicated,  for  the  Patriarch  to  the 
Church,  for  the  seventies,  the  high 
priests,  the  high  councils,  the  elders,  the 
Presiding  Bishop,  the  priests,  teachers, 
and  deacons.  There  were  prayers  for 
the  Jews,  for  the  Lamanites,  and  for  all 
who  desire  to  do  good  in  this  and  all 
other  nations.  There  were  prayers  also 
for  the  cooperative  institutions,  for  those 
who  entered  into  the  United  Order  "ac- 
cording to  thy  word,"  the  Relief  So- 
cieties, the  Retrenchment  Societies  [the 
Mutuals],  the  Sunday  Schools,  and  then 
this  mighty  appeal:  "Let  the  comfort- 
ing influence  of  thy  Holy  Spirit  rest 
upon  the  Saints,  and  the  quickening 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  unite  thy 
people  in  sympathy,  affection,  kind- 
ness and  interest.    May  thy  people, 

0  God,  be  one — one  with  Jesus  as  he 
is  one  with  the  Father  .  .  .  one  in 
spirit  and  feeling  and  interest;  one  in 
temporal  and  one  in  spiritual  things, 
a  band  of  brethren;  one  in  rolling  forth 
the  kingdom,  united  together  by  eternal, 
indisputable  ties;  one  in  gathering  thine 
elect,  in  building  Temples  and  ad- 
ministering to  the  living  and  for  the 
dead;  one  in  building  up  the  Zion  of 
our  God;  one  with  all  the  redeemed 
and  all  the  angelic  hosts,  in  introducing 
the  principles  and  laws  of  life  to  all  of 
Adam's  race  and  ushering  in  the  mil- 
lennial reign." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  re-utter 
that  prayer  in  your  presence  today.  It 
is  the  supreme  desire  and  ambition  of 
my  life  that  this  glorious  destiny  for 
our  people  and  God's  work  be  realized. 

1  testify  that  Jesus  the  Christ  lives, 
that  he  is  the  Lord  of  the  earth,  and 
the  Author  of  our  salvation,  that  his 
precious  gospel  and  his  Church  have 
been  restored  and  reestablished  through 
his  chosen  servant,  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  and  that  the  Holy  Priesthood, 
and  the  authority  to  represent  the  Lord 
have  descended  upon  our  present  leader 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


49 


in  authentic  succession,  and  that  he 
stands  before  us  today  in  humility,  in 
heart  and  mind  receptive  to  the  divine 
Spirit,  to  lead  us  in  the  greatest  cause 
ever  committed  to  men.  I  give  you 
also  my  firm  conviction  that  if  we  will 
but  follow  the  teachings  and  the  coun- 
sels of  our  President  and  his  associates, 


all  of  which  are  in  conformity  with  the 
pronouncements  and  principles  given 
in  this  sacred  Tabernacle  for  nearly  a 
century  of  time,  there  will  be  fulfilled 
every  prophecy  and  glorious  promise 
ever  made  to  Zion.  God  bless  us  to 
this  end,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


1 sincerely  ask  for  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  and  hope  that  part  of  the 
Tabernacle  dedicatory  prayer  pertaining 
to  the  speakers,  may  also  be  enjoyed 
by  me. 

An  important  duty  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  to 
assist  its  members  to  attain  the  full 
measure  of  their  possibilities  and  powers. 
This  would  give  great  strength  to  the 
Church  and  bring  joy  and  happiness 
to  the  membership  of  the  Church. 

As  sons  and  daughters  of  God,  created 
in  his  image  and  likeness,  possessing, 
however  imperfectly,  his  characteristics 
and  attributes,  we  should  nevertheless 
be  inspired  to  perfect  ourselves  and 
become  like  him.  The  duty  therefore 
of  each  of  us  is  to  develop  and  prepare 
ourselves  to  become  worthy  children  of 
an  Eternal  Father. 

The  Church  provides  every  oppor- 
tunity for  us  to  use  our  God-given 
talents,  gifts,  and  powers.  However, 
we  must  learn  obedience  to  authority 
and  to  keep  all  the  commandments  of 
God. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  said  of  the 
Savior,  that  he  suffered  temptations  but 
gave  no  heed  to  them.  And  Paul, 
writing  to  the  Hebrew  saints  said  that 
in  all  points  he  was  tempted  as  we 
are,  yet  without  sin.  The  Savior  per- 
fected himself  through  obedience  and 
by  obedience  became  the  author  of 
eternal  salvation. 

There  must  be  on  our  part  a  willing- 
ness to  accept  responsibility  in  all  faith- 
fulness and  devotion;  it  makes  possible 


the  attainment  of  our  divine  heritage 
and  blessings. 

The  Lord  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith: 

.  .  .  men  should  be  anxiously  engaged  in  a 
good  cause  and  do  many  things  of  their 
own  free  will,  and  bring  to  pass  much 
righteousness; 

For  the  power  is  in  them,  wherein 
they  are  agents  unto  themselves.  And 
inasmuch  as  men  do  good  they  shall 
in  nowise  lose  their  reward.  (D.  &  C. 
58:27-28.) 

The  right  of  free  agency  and  choice 
belongs  to  all  of  us,  but  God  holds  us 
accountable  for  our  individual  acts. 
The  Lord  has  placed  Prophets,  Apostles, 
and  teachers  in  his  Church  to  interpret 
and  point  the  way  for  his  people  and 
all  the  world  in  spiritual  and  temporal 
matters.  Safety  is  in  following  divinely 
appointed  leadership  and  counsel.  The 
rights  and  powers  of  these  leaders  stem 
from  the  Savior  himself,  and  each  can 
trace  his  priesthood  and  authority 
through  an  unbroken  chain  to  this  di- 
vine source. 

The  keys  of  this  power  and  authority 
center  in  the  president  of  the  High 
Priesthood  of  the  Church.  It  is  not 
given  to  any  other  man  to  so  represent 
God  here  upon  the  earth.  The  Lord 
expects  his  people  to  unite  and  follow 
under  this  leadership  and  not  permit 
themselves  to  be  tossed  about  by  those 
who  would  find  fault  or  would  claim 
revelation  and  teach  contrary  to  what 
God  has  revealed  to  his  chosen  prophets. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  need  to  be 
careful  that  they  do  not  become  per- 


50 

Saturday,  April  5 

suaded  to  false  ideas  and  teachers.  There 
are  some  among  us  who  seize  upon  one 
or  more  appealing  principle,  truth,  or 
law,  then  twist  it  to  their  own  desire 
or  profit  until  they  become  all-consum- 
ing obsessions  with  them.  They  are  not 
satisfied  or  content  to  hold  these  views 
to  themselves,  but  with  Satan's  en- 
couragement, desire  to  entice  others  to 
their  way  of  thinking;  they  seek  fol- 
lowers and  persuade  not  only  those  who 
are  weak  and  unfaithful,  but  also  many 
of  the  faithful  are  deceived.  Somehow 
they  forget  or  fail  to  understand  that 
this  Church  is  not  built  upon  one 
principle,  or  one  law,  or  one  truth,  but 
the  true  gospel  is  built  upon  many 
principles,  laws  and  truths,  complete 
acceptance  and  obedience  to  which  is 
necessary  to  give  us  joy,  happiness, 
satisfaction,  and  eternal  glory. 

Many  of  these  people  pledge  alle- 
giance to  the  Church,  yet  they  sepa- 
rate themselves  from  Church  meetings 
and  encourage  others  to  do  like- 
wise. Those  who  follow  them  become 
children  of  evil,  lose  their  faith  and 
testimony,  and  the  history  of  such  fol- 
lowers is  that  if  they  do  not  repent, 
they  are  excommunicated  from  the 
Church. 

Satan  is  employing  every  method  to 
deceive  not  only  non-members  of  the 
Church,  but  also  particularly  those  who 
are  members.  Each  of  us  must  be  care- 
ful that  we  are  not  out  of  harmony,  that 
we  enjoy  daily  the  guidance  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  of  God  in  our  lives. 

The  Lord  has  said, 

.  .  .  the  day  cometh  that  they  who  will 
not  hear  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  neither 
the  voice  of  his  servants,  neither  give  heed 
to  the  words  of  the  prophets  and  apostles, 
shall  be  cut  off  from  among  the  people; 

For  they  have  strayed  from  mine  ordi- 
nances, and  have  broken  mine  everlasting 
covenant; 

They  seek  not  the  Lord  to  establish  his 
righteousness,  but  every  man  walketh  in 
his  own  way,  and  after  the  image  of  his 
own  God,  whose  image  is  in  the  likeness 
of  the  world,  and  whose  substance  is  that 
of  an  idol,  which  waxeth  old  and  shall 
perish  in  Babylon,  even  Babylon  the  great, 
which  shall  fall.  (Ibid.  1:14-16.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Every  person  who  goes  contrary  to 
the  Church  and  says  that  the  brethren 
are  fallen  or  are  out  of  the  way  or  are 
teaching  false  doctrines,  unless  he  re- 
pents will  never  in  this  life  or  eternity 
realize  the  full  measure  of  his  possi- 
bilities and  powers.  God  will  not  suffer 
his  Church,  established  for  the  last  time 
in  this  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness 
of  Times  when  a  restitution  of  all  things 
is  to  be  accomplished,  to  be  led  by  a 
fallen  prophet,  or  by  someone  whom  he 
does  not  want. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  in  a  letter 
to  William  W.  Phelps,  quoted  Section 
eighty-five  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, and,  commenting  upon  the  mis- 
sion of  the  one  mighty  and  strong, 
said: 

Now  Brother  William,  if  what  I  have 
said  is  true,  how  careful  men  ought  to  be 
what  they  do  in  the  last  days,  lest  they 
are  cut  short  in  their  expectations  and 
they  that  think  they  stand,  should  fall, 
because  they  keep  not  the  Lord's  com- 
mandments. 

In  The  Deseret  News  of  November 
13,  1905,  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  and 
his  Counselors,  commenting  on  this 
statement,  said: 

Perhaps  no  other  passage  in  the  revela- 
tions of  the  Lord  in  this  dispensation  has 
given  rise  to  so  much  speculation  as  this 
one  ...  the  Church  of  Christ  and  of  the 
Saints  is  completely  organized,  and  that 
when  the  man  who  shall  be  called  upon 
to  divide  unto  the  Saints  their  inheritances 
comes,  he  will  be  designated  by  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Lord  to  the  proper  authorities 
of  the  Church,  appointed  and  sustained 
according  to  the  order  provided  for  the 
government  of  the  Church. 

So  long  as  that  Church  remains  in  the 
earth — and  we  have  assurance  from  the 
Lord  that  it  will  remain  in  the  earth 
forever — the  Saints  need  look  for  nothing 
of  God's  appointing  that  will  be  erratic 
or  irregular,  or  that  smacks  of  starting 
over  afresh,  or  that  would  ignore  or  over- 
throw the  established  order  of  things.  The 
Saints  should  remember  that  they  are  liv- 
ing in  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of 
times  when  the  Church  is  established  in  the 
earth  for  the  last  days  and  for  the  last  time 
and  that  God's  Church  is  a  Church  of 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


51 


order  or  law,  and  that  there  is  no  place 
for  anarchy  in  it. 

And  then  in  Gospel  Doctrine,  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith  says: 

If  any  man  in  that  position  [speaking  of 
the  one  who  holds  the  keys  of  the  high 
priesthood  of  the  Church]  should  become 
unfaithful  God  would  remove  him  out  of 
his  place.  I  testify  in  the  name  of  Israel's 
God  that  he  will  not  suffer  the  head  of 
the  Church,  whom  he  has  chosen  to  stand 
at  the  head,  to  transgress  his  laws  and 
apostatize;  the  moment  he  should  take  a 
course  that  would  in  time  lead  to  it,  God 
would  take  him  away.  Why?  Because  to 
suffer  a  wicked  man  to  occupy  that  posi- 
tion would  be  to  allow,  as  it  were,  the 
fountain  to  be  corrupted,  which  is  some- 
thing he  will  never  permit.  {Gospel  Doc- 
trine, pp.  44-45.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  made  this 
important  statement: 

I  will  give  you  one  of  the  Keys  of  the 
mysteries  of  the  Kingdom.  It  is  an  eternal 
principle,  that  has  existed  with  God  from 
all  eternity:  That  man  who  rises  up  to 
condemn  others,  finding  fault  with  the 
Church,  saying  that  they  are  out  of  the 
way,  while  he  himself  is  righteous,  then 
know  assuredly,  that  that  man  is  on  the 
high  road  to  apostasy;  and  if  he  does  not 
repent,  will  apostatize,  as  God  lives.  (D.H.C. 
Vol.  3,  p.  385.) 

In  Section  121  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  the  Lord  said  to  the 
Prophet, 

Cursed  are  all  those  that  shall  lift  up 
the  heel  against  mine  anointed,  saith  the 
Lord,  and  cry  they  have  sinned  when  they 
have  not  sinned  before  me,  saith  the  Lord, 
but  have  done  that  which  was  meet  in 
mine  eyes,  and  which  I  commanded  them. 

But  those  who  cry  transgression  do  it 
because  they  are  the  servants  of  sin,  and  are 
the  children  of  disobedience  themselves. 
(D.  &  C.  121:16-7.) 

I  testify  to  you,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  that  your  leaders  are  doing  that 
which  is  meet  in  the  eyes  of  God.  They 
may  have  their  faults  and  their  fail- 
ings, but  when  it  comes  to  devotion  to 
their  high  calling  in  this  Church  and 
kingdom,  there  is  no  question  but  what 


they  are  doing  all  within  their  power 
to  set  forward  the  interests  of  the 
Church,  and  the  interests  of  the  people 
of  the  Church.  And  this  leadership, 
my  brothers  and  sisters,  must  stand  firm, 
and  teach  all  truths,  and  all  principles 
and  all  laws  that  God  has  revealed. 
God  has  not  given  to  man  the  authority 
to  change  eternal  truths,  principles,  or 
laws.  If  people  are  honest,  and  surely 
no  person  can  be  honest  unless  he 
keeps  the  commandments  of  God,  they 
will  expect  their  leaders  without  equivo- 
cation to  defend  and  teach  the  com- 
mandments of  God  as  revealed;  other- 
wise they  would  not  accept  them  as 
leaders;  they  would  not  follow  them; 
they  would  not  respect  them,  for  such 
vacillating  leadership  would  not  be  ac- 
ceptable to  the  body  of  the  Church. 
There  are  those  who  might  say: 

.  .  .  Eat,  drink  and  be  merry;  nevertheless, 
fear  God,  he  will  justify  in  committing  a 
little  sin;  yea,  lie  a  little,  take  advantage 
of  one  because  of  his  words,  dig  a  pit  for 
thy  neighbor;  there  is  no  harm  in  this; 
and  do  all  these  things,  for  tomorrow  we 
die;  and  if  it  so  be  that  we  are  guilty 
God  will  beat  us  with  a  few  stripes,  and 
at  last  we  shall  be  saved  in  the  kingdom 
of  God.  (II  Nephi  28:8.) 

Do  we,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  want 
to  belong  to  that  kind  of  Church  or 
accept  those  who  teach  that  kind  of 
doctrine?  Is  there  hope,  is  there  satis- 
faction in  following  such  teachings? 
Surely  God  would  not  rob  justice. 
Those  who  break  his  laws  must  suffer 
the  penalty  for  broken  law.  The  Lord, 
we  are  told,  does  not  look  upon  sin 
with  the  least  degree  of  allowance.  If 
God  cannot,  can  we — and  justify  our- 
selves or  others  for  such  doings? 

The  Lord  said  to  the  Prophet  in 
Section  132  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants: 

For  all  who  will  have  a  blessing  at  my 
hands  shall  abide  the  law  which  was  ap- 
pointed for  that  blessing,  and  the  condi- 
tions thereof,  as  were  instituted  from  before 
the  foundation  of  the  world.  (D.  &  C. 
132:5.) 

And  those  who  fail  to  obey  set  them- 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  5 

selves  up  for  temptation  and  evil.  Again 
Satan  is  ever  alert  to  his  opportunities 
to  deceive  and  to  lead  the  people  of  this 
Church  astray,  for  he  knows  the  power 
of  this  Church,  its  destiny  and  purpose 
in  the  earth,  and  he  will  do  all  that 
he  can  to  see  that  the  work  does  not 
prosper. 

Therefore,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
we  need  to  be  faithful,  we  need  to  sup- 
port our  leaders.  And  when  we  go  to 
our  bishops  and  our  stake  presidents  for 
counsel,  let  us  accept  it,  for  God  will 
prosper  us  as  we  follow  the  leadership 
of  those  appointed  to  preside  over  us. 


Second  Day 

If  we  attain,  therefore,  the  full  measure 
of  our  possibilities  and  powers,  we  must 
obey  and  follow  leadership  and  keep  all 
the  commandments  of  God.  If  we  can 
keep  with  us  the  spirit  of  the  gospel, 
which  is  light  and  truth,  then  it  will 
not  be  too  difficult  for  us  to  obey  and 
follow  the  leadership  that  God  has 
called  and  appointed  to  direct  his  peo- 
ple. 

May  our  Heavenly  Father  bless  us, 
give  us  the  strength  that  we  require, 
keep  us  true  to  the  faith  and  faithful 
in  our  responsibilities,  I  humbly  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


I 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


n  the  thirteenth  chapter  of  First 
Nephi,  we  have  the  words  of  the 
Prophet  who  writes: 

And  I  looked  and  beheld  a  man  among 
the  Gentiles,  who  was  separated  from  the 
seed  of  my  brethren  by  the  many  waters; 
and  I  beheld  the  Spirit  of  God  that  it  came 
down  and  wrought  upon  the  man;  and  he 
went  forth  upon  the  many  waters,  even 
unto  the  seed  of  my  brethren,  who  were 
in  the  promised  land. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  beheld  the 
Spirit  of  God,  that  it  wrought  upon  other 
Gentiles;  and  they  went  forth  out  of  cap- 
tivity, upon  the  many  waters.  .  .  . 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  I,  Nephi,  beheld 
that  the  Gentiles  who  had  gone  forth  out 
of  captivity  did  humble  themselves  before 
the  Lord;  and  the  power  of  the  Lord  was 
with  them.  (1  Nephi  13:11-12,  16.) 

I  have  always  recalled  with  joy  in 
reading  these  words  that  they  referred 
to  Christopher  Columbus  and  the  Pil- 
grim fathers.  When  Columbus  stepped 
upon  this  western  land  in  1492,  he  ut- 
tered these  words  in  prayer: 

O  God,  our  Father,  eternal  and  omnip- 
otent, creator  of  heaven  and  earth  and 
sea,  we  glorify  Thy  Holy  name,  praise  Thy 
majesty,  whom  we  serve  in  all  humility, 
we  give  unto  Thy  Holy  protection  this  new 
part  of  the  world.  (Quoted  by  Washington 
Irving  in  his  Life  of  Columbus) 

We  are  told  that  Edward  Winslow, 


the  third  signer  of  the  Mayflower  Com- 
pact, recorded  the  following  parting 
words  of  Pastor  Robinson,  as  the  Pil- 
grim fathers  left  the  shores  of  Holland 
on  their  long  journey  into  the  un- 
known West.    He  said: 

Brethren,  we  are  now  quickly  to  part 
from  one  another,  and  whether  I  may  ever 
live  to  see  your  face,  on  earth  any  more, 
the  God  of  Heaven  only  knows;  but  whether 
the  Lord  hath  appointed  that  or  not,  I 
charge  you  before  God  and  His  blessed 
angels  that  you  follow  me  no  farther  than 
you  have  seen  me  follow  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  If  God  reveal  anything  to  you,  by 
any  other  instrument  of  his,  be  as  ready 
to  receive  it  as  ever  you  were  to  receive 
truth,  by  my  ministry;  for  I  am  fully  per- 
suaded, I  am  very  confident,  that  the  Lord 
has  more  truth  yet  to  break  forth  out  of 
his  holy  word. 

Columbus  was  inspired  and  led  by 
the  power  of  God  to  these  shores  of 
America,  and  the  Pilgrim  fathers  and 
others  likewise,  for  we  believe  that  the 
time  had  come  for  the  American  In- 
dians to  be  found,  for  they  are  the 
remnants  of  Joseph.  It  is  interesting 
to  note  that  many  of  the  early  adherents 
to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  received 
in  the  early  part  of  the  nineteenth  cen- 
tury, were  descendants  of  the  old  Puri- 
tan stock  who  came  from  England.  Such 
men  were  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


53 


Brigham  Young,  and  many  others  of 
that  early  day.  And  thus  began  the 
great  work  of  occupying  the  whole  coun- 
try of  America  by  different  peoples  of 
the  world.  We  have  become  a  rich 
and  powerful  nation,  potentially  the 
richest  and  the  most  powerful  upon  the 
earth. 

As  President  Richards  spoke  about  the 
building  of  this  Tabernacle  in  which 
we  are  worshiping  God,  I  recalled  that 
it  is  just  one  hundred  years  ago  that 
President  Brigham  Young  stood  before 
the  two  thousand  people  and  more  who 
had  assembled  for  the  same  reason 
that  you  and  I  have  done,  to  worship 
God  and  Jesus  Christ  our  Redeemer. 
They  had  a  Tabernacle  which  had  just 
been  built  of  adobes  and  could  seat 
two  thousand  people.  The  seats  were 
mostly  of  logs,  although  a  few  chairs 
had  been  made  for  the  brethren  who 
sat  in  front.  People  came  from  all  parts 
of  the  territory,  some  by  ox  team  and  in 
wagons  drawn  by  horses.  Many  of  them 
walked  long  distances  to  attend  the 
conference.  At  the  close  of  the  last 
meeting  on  Sunday  afternoon  President 
Young  arose  and  announced  that  he 
had  called  approximately  one  hundred 
of  the  brethren  to  go  on  missions  to 
different  parts  of  the  world.  The  na- 
tions mentioned  were  those  of  Europe, 
and  China,  India,  Persia,  and  Siam  in 
Asia,  and  then  the  Islands  of  the  Pacific. 
One  cannot  conceive  what  this  meant 
in  those  days  when  the  missionaries 
walked  to  the  Pacific  Coast  to  take  a 
boat  to  the  countries  of  the  Pacific. 
Then  think  of  the  long  journey  by  way 
of  the  Atlantic  Ocean  as  they  set  out 
for  India,  Siam,  and  Persia.  The  his- 
tory of  these  men  will  be  written  some 
day  by  a  master  historian,  and  the 
world  will  stand  amazed  at  their  cour- 
age and  faith  in  God.  Many  of  the 
journals  of  those  missionaries  have  been 
preserved.  President  Lorenzo  Snow  was 
already  in  Italy,  and  President  John 
Taylor  was  president  of  the  French  Mis- 
sion. We  have  heard  during  the  con- 
ference much  about  the  subject  of  teach- 
ing which  the  missionaries  experienced, 
and  in  a  few  words,  I  should  like  to 


add  a  thought  concerning  the  teaching 
of  the  gospel  to  the  people  of  the  world. 

It  has  been  said  in  many  different 
ways  that  "In  our  children  lies  the 
future  of  our  world."  If  we  believe  this, 
and  we  do,  then  the  education  of  our 
children  deserves  our  foremost  careful 
attention.  Every  father  and  mother, 
every  mature  person  in  our  land  should 
be  profoundly  interested  in  the  educa- 
tion of  our  youth.  Our  honored  Presi- 
dent, David  O.  McKay,  has  during  the 
last  year  given  to  us  and  our  nation 
more  than  one  great  talk  on  the  aims 
and  ideals  and  the  far-reaching  im- 
portance of  education.  He  has  told  us 
that  it  flourishes  on  character,  and  with- 
out character  it  lacks  any  strength.  There 
must  be  character  and  goodness  as  its 
chief  obligation — goodness  is  its  real 
power.  True  affection  in  those  taught 
and  in  those  who  are  teachers  must 
never  be  wanting.  In  all  good  teach- 
ing there  are  things  that  survive,  and 
have  survived,  strong  and  unshaken, 
from  the  earliest  times.  The  master 
Teacher  who  lived  two  thousand  years 
ago  said  love  is  the  foundation  on  which 
to  build  all  growth,  all  progress,  all 
faith — love  of  God,  love  of  neighbor. 

Teaching  is  an  art,  and  an  art  has 
to  be  learned.  Our  missionaries  must 
be  taught  better  how  to  teach  the  gos- 
pel. Our  seventies  at  home  must  be 
taught  how  to  teach  the  gospel,  re- 
membering always  that  we  can  teach 
only  that  which  we  know.  We  are 
admonished  to  seek,  to  knock,  to  ask, 
to  search  diligently  with  faith  un- 
wavering, and  we  shall  be  rewarded. 
We  are  told  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  to  "Seek  ye  out  of  the  best  books 
words  of  wisdom."  (D.  &  C.  88:118.) 

If  our  schools  and  colleges  teach  the 
things  that  are  really  important,  the 
mind  is  required  to  do  hard  work,  to 
attack  a  difficult  problem  and  think  to 
a  correct  answer.  One  of  our  well- 
known  writers  has  said, 

There  are  only  a  very  few  youthful  years 
in  every  human  life  when  the  mind  is 
fresh  and  plastic,  and  the  memory  able  to 
retain.     These  years  should  be  used  to 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  5 

teach  the  best  and  most  beautiful  things 
man  can  know — power  over  language,  a 
mastery  of  pure  science,  exposure  to  great 
literature  and  art,  a  basic  knowledge  of 
history,  philosophy,  and  religion.  No  mat- 
ter what  a  young  man  or  woman  does  to 
earn  his  living,  his  education  will  have 
been  worthless  unless  he  has  learned  to 
know  and  to  use  the  first-rate  in  whatever 
line  he  pursues— and  also  learned  to  love  it. 

It  is  in  the  realm  of  religion  that  most 
of  us  teach.  We  want  our  children 
to  know  the  gospel,  and  to  live  it  to 
the  very  best  of  their  ability.  We  want 
righteousness  to  be  made  practical  in 
every  phase  of  life.  We  hope  to  direct 
our  youth  into  a  pattern  of  life  that 
is  eternal,  founded  on  a  sure  and  firm 
belief  and  faith  in  the  teachings  of  the 
Savior,  and  the  prophets  of  old  and  of 
the  new  and  restored  gospel.  Our  aim 
is  to  teach  our  children  to  carry  for- 
ward the  purposes  of  God.  In  doing 
this  we  follow  the  words  in  Section  4 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 

...  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of 
God,  see  that  ye  serve  him  with  all  your 
heart,  might,  mind,  and  strength.  (D.  &  C. 
4:2.) 

We  must  begin  to  teach  our  children 
while  they  are  very  young,  for  it  is 
written,  "The  things  that  thou  hast  not 
gathered  in  thy  youth,  how  shalt  thou 
find  them  in  thy  old  age?" 

And  Jethro  counseled,  "And  thou 
shalt  teach  them  the  way  wherein  they 
must  walk,  and  the  work  that  they  must 
do.  They  must  be  patiently,  gradually 
taught.  Being  God's  people,  they  must 
live  his  laws,  they  must  worship  in  his 
ways."  (See  Ex.  18:20.) 

Man  needs  a  long  vision  in  life  that 
he  may  fulfil  a  pattern  of  eternal  pro- 
gression and  salvation  although  the 
strains  and  tenseness  of  daily  living 
favor  short  sight.  Perhaps  both  are 
necessary,  but  the  one  should  not  crowd 
out  the  other  more  realistic  and  basic 
one.  The  man  who  is  trying  earnestly 
and  with  all  his  strength  to  catch  sight 
of  the  vision  of  a  better  world,  and  to 
incorporate  what  he  can  see  in  the  life 
of  himself  and  his  society,  helps  us  to 


Second  Day 

do  what  we  could  not  do  without  his 
help.  We  can  raise  ourselves  on  the 
shoulders  of  those  who  have  walked  on 
higher  levels.  There  is  a  profound  wis- 
dom in  the  saying,  "Let  us  now  praise 
famous  men."  This  is  what  is  meant  by 
the  warning  of  the  prophets,  "Lift  up 
your  hearts."  Learn  of  the  greatness  and 
goodness  of  prophets  and  leaders  in 
trying  to  follow  their  teachings. 

Religion  holds  up  to  us  all  the  noblest 
examples  of  living.  Disraeli  said,  "Nur- 
ture your  minds  with  great  thoughts:  To 
believe  in  the  heroic  makes  heroes." 

Read  the  Bible  to  get  not  only  great 
truths  of  living  but  also  great  feeling 
and  enlarged  vision.  Read  it  to  get  the 
depths  of  life.  Make  it  your  companion 
through  life  so  that  you  may  not  live 
only  on  the  surface,  but  on  permanent 
effect.  Do  likewise  with  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  Religion 
is  the  greatest  instrument  for  raising  us 
to  the  best  of  the  highest  life. 

We  have  had  great  teachers  in  our 
day.  I  think  of  one:  Dr.  Karl  G. 
Maeser,  who  came  to  America  from 
Germany  as  a  convert  to  the  Church, 
and  who  was  for  many  years  a  teacher 
in  Brigham  Young  University  in  the 
early  days  of  that  institution.  It  is  only 
recently  that  Dr.  Joel  Francis  Paschal 
of  Princeton  University  has  written  the 
Life  of  Justice  George  Sutherland,  who 
first  was  elected  congressman  and  then 
senator  from  the  state  of  Utah.  Dr. 
Paschal  tells  about  the  influence  that 
Dr.  Maeser  had  on  the  life  of  Senator 
Sutherland,  and  says: 

Dr.  Maeser's  knowledge  seemed  to  reach 
into  every  field.  Of  course  there  were  limits; 
but  they  were  not  revealed  to  me  during 
my  course  at  the  Academy.  That  he  was 
an  accomplished  scholar  I  knew  from  the 
first.  But  the  extent  of  his  learning  so 
grew  before  my  vision  as  time  went  on  that 
my  constant  emotion  was  one  of  amaze- 
ment. I  think  there  were  days  when  I 
would  have  taken  my  oath  that  if  the 
Rosetta  Stone  had  never  been  found,  never- 
theless he  could  have  easily  revealed  the 
meaning  of  the  Egyptian  hieroglyphics.  He 
spoke  with  a  decided  accent;  but  his  mastery 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 


55 


of  the  English  language,  of  English  litera- 
ture, and  of  the  English  way  of  thought, 
was  superb. 

Maeser's  influence  was  not  merely 
that  of  an  instructor.   Says  Sutherland, 

He  was  a  man  of  such  transparent  and 
natural  goodness  that  his  students  gained 
not  only  knowledge,  but  character  which 
is  better  than  knowledge. 

I  like  to  remind  myself  of  the  saying 
of  Emerson, 

God  offers  to  every  mind  its  choice  be- 
tween truth  and  repose:  take  which  you 
please,  you  can  never  have  both. 

The  mothers  of  Zion  begin  the  teach- 
ing of  their  children  when  they  are  in 
the  cradle.  They  remember  always 
that  "Love  grants  in  a  moment  what 
toil  can  hardly  achieve  in  an  age." 

The  very  first  thing  every  child  should 
be  taught  (and  as  always  example,  not 
precept,  is  the  best  teacher)  is  respect 
for  every  human  being.  We  should 
learn  to  have  a  great  and  good  opinion 
of  human  life,  for  all  are  made  in  the 
image  of  God  and  have  a  dignity  and 
a  destiny.  This  will  lead  naturally  to 
the  principle  of  the  Golden  Rule,  "Do 
unto  others  what  I  would  that  others 
should  do  unto  me." 

It  is  extraordinary  how  many  kinds 
of  men  and  women  make  desirable 
teachers  because  the  pupils  display  a 
variety  of  human  traits  and  cannot  all 
be  moved  and  reached  by  the  same 


teaching.  Remember,  too,  that  a  mas- 
tered subject,  and  a  person  committed 
heart  and  soul  to  teaching  it,  with  the 
spirit  of  God,  will  be  near  to  the  dis- 
course of  men  and  angels. 

We  need  not  be  graduated  of  schools 
and  colleges  to  know  these  truths  of 
religion  and  teach  them  to  our  children. 
The  Savior  has  told  us  that  if  we  ask 
it  shall  be  given  to  us:  If  we  knock,  it 
shall  be  opened  unto  us,  and  we  need 
only  to  pray  and  work  earnestly  and 
with  faith  to  receive  the  blessings  we 
desire  to  become  teachers  of  the  gospel. 

Sir  Richard  Livingston,  an  educator 
and  classicist,  and  president  of  Corpus 
Christi  College,  Oxford,  tells  us  in  a 
lecture  at  Springfield,  Massachusetts,  "It 
is  amazing  that  a  person  not  intellectual- 
ly bright,  perhaps  not  even  educated, 
is  capable  of  grasping  and  living  by 
something  so  advanced  as  the  principles 
of  Christianity." 

The  earth  is  the  Lord's,  and  the  fulness 
thereof;  the  world,  and  they  that  dwell 
therein. 

For  he  hath  founded  it  upon  the  sea,  and 
established  it  upon  the  floods.  (Psalm  24.) 

May  our  faith  be  strengthened  and 
may  we  have  power  to  teach  our  chil- 
dren the  truth  and  the  beauty  of  the 
gospel,  I  humbly  pray  in  Jesus'  name. 
Amen. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O 
Say,  What  Is  Truth?"  - 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


We  believe  that  God  has  revealed 
himself  in  our  day  that  men  again 
may  be  able  to  gain  eternal  life 
in  his  kingdom.  The  knowledge  of 
God,  the  knowledge  as  to  the  nature  and 
kind  of  being  that  he  is,  is  the  rock 
foundation  upon  which  all  true  religion 
is  based,  and  without  that  knowledge 
and  without  revelation  from  him,  it  is 
not  possible  for  men  to  hope  for  or 
gain  the  blessings,  honors,  and  glories 
of  eternity. 


The  Master  gave  the  key  to  this 
principle  in  his  great  intercessory  prayer 
when  he  said, 

And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might 
know  thee  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus 
Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent.  (John  17:3.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said, 

It  is  the  first  principle  of  the  Gospel  to 
know  for  a  certainty  the  character  of  God, 
and  to  know  that  we  may  converse  with 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  S 

him  as  one  man  converses  with  another. 
(Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
page  345.) 

This  knowledge  of  God,  always  com- 
ing by  revelation,  has  been  had  in 
every  age  of  the  earth's  history  when 
the  gospel  has  been  here.  The  prophets 
have  known  of  him  and  have  borne 
witness  to  the  people  concerning  his 
attributes  and  his  laws.  He  created 
Adam  "in  the  image  of  his  own  body" 
(Moses  6:9)  and  then  walked  and 
talked  with  him,  with  the  very  man 
whom  he  had  created  in  his  own  like- 
ness. He  sent  his  Firstborn  spirit  Son, 
Jehovah,  to  commune  with  Moses  "face 
to  face,  as  a  man  speaketh  unto  his 
friend."  (Exodus  33:11.)  And  then  in 
the  Meridian  of  Time  he  sent  this  same 
Son,  among  other  reasons,  to  manifest 
to  the  world  the  nature  and  kind  of 
being  that  he  is,  so  that  men  might  know 
him  and  worship  him  and  keep  his 
commandments  and  thereby  be  entitled 
to  come  back  into  his  presence  again. 

Christ  said  that  he  was  the  Son  of 
God.  He  said  that  he  came  forth  from 
the  Father,  that  he  came  to  bear  witness 
of  the  Father.  It  is  written  of  him  that 
he  is  the  express  image  of  his  Father's 
person,  and  this  knowledge  was  had  in 
all  ages.  And  yet  when  the  period  of 
dark  apostasy  set  in,  men  without  reve- 
lation, without  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord, 
sat  down  in  conventions  and  conclaves 
and  wrote  creeds  which  attempted  to 
define  what  kind  of  being  he  was. 
They  said  that  he  was  in  some  mystical 
way  three  in  one,  that  he  filled  the 
immensity  of  space,  that  he  was  every- 
where and  nowhere  in  particular  pres- 
ent, that  he  was  incomprehensible,  un- 
knowable, uncreated,  incorporeal,  and 
all  the  rest.  And  that  is  the  understand- 
ing that  prevailed  in  the  world  in  the 
spring  of  1820  when  the  Prophet  went 
into  that  secluded  place  in  a  grove  of 
trees  to  ask  the  Lord  which  of  all  the 
churches  was  right  and  which  he  should 
join.   The  Prophet  said, 

...  I  saw  a  pillar  of  light  exactly  over  my 
head,  above  the  brightness  of  the  sun,  which 
descended  gradually  until  it  fell  upon  me. 


Second  Day 

.  .  .  When  the  light  rested  upon  me  I 
saw  two  personages,  whose  brightness  and 
glory  defy  all  description,  standing  above 
me  in  the  air:  One  of  them  spake  unto 
me,  calling  me  by  name,  and  said,  pointing 
to  the  other. — This  is  my  Beloved  Son.  Hear 
Him!  (Joseph  Smith  2:16-17.) 

From  that  moment  the  knowledge  of 
God  began  to  roll  forth  in  the  world, 
and  we  expect  to  see  a  day,  eventually, 
when  the  knowledge  of  God  will  cover 
the  earth,  as  the  waters  cover  the  deep, 
when  it  will  no  longer  be  necessary  for 
any  man  to  say  to  his  neighbor,  "Know 
the  Lord,"  for  all  shall  know  him  from 
the  greatest  to  the  least. 

We  have  a  scripture  that  says, 

The  Father  has  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones 
as  tangible  as  man's;  the  Son  also;  but  the 
Holy  Ghost  has  not  a  body  of  flesh  and 
bones,  but  is  a  personage  of  Spirit.  (D.  &  C. 
130:22.) 

If  we  had  lived  in  the  beginning,  in 
Adam's  day,  and  had  received  the 
knowledge  of  God  as  taught  by  revela- 
tion from  the  mouth  of  Adam,  the  pre- 
siding high  priest  in  the  Church,  we 
would  have  seen  that  the  very  name  of 
the  Father,  literally  interpreted,  meant 
Man  of  Holiness,  for  as  the  scripture 
says, 

...  In  the  language  of  Adam,  Man  of 
Holiness  is  his  name,  and  the  name  of  his 
Only  Begotten  is  the  Son  of  Man.  (Moses 
6:57.) 

When  Christ  repeatedly  referred  to 
himself  as  the  Son  of  Man,  he  was 
certifying  that  Man  of  Holiness,  God 
the  Eternal  Father,  was  his  Father,  and 
he  had  no  reference  to  his  mortality, 
his  birth  as  the  son  of  Mary. 

All  of  us  who  have  received  the  gos- 
pel have  power  given  us  to  become  the 
sons  of  God.  We  can  do  that  by  faith. 
And  Paul  says  those  that  become,  by 
adoption,  sons  of  God  are  joint  heirs 
with  Jesus  Christ,  entitled  thereby  to 
receive,  inherit,  and  possess,  as  Christ 
has  inherited  before.  The  Apostle  John, 
beloved  disciple  of  the  Lord,  wrote  these 
words: 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


57 


Behold,  what  manner  of  love  the  Father 
hath  bestowed  upon  us,  that  we  should  be 
called  the  sons  of  God:  therefore  the  world 
knoweth  us  not,  because  it  knew  him  not. 

And  now  note  particularly  what  he 
says: 

.  .  .  Now  are  we  the  sons  of  God,  and  it 
doth  not  yet  appear  what  we  shall  be:  but 
we  know  that,  when  he  shall  appear,  we 
shall  be  like  him;  for  we  shall  see  him  as 
he  is. 

And  every  man  that  hath  this  hope  in 
him  purifieth  himself,  even  as  he  is  pure. 
(I  John  3:1-3.) 

To  that  same  John,  who  had  written 
these  words  as  moved  upon  by  the 
Holy  Ghost,  the  Lord  said: 

He  that  overcometh  shall  inherit  all 
things;  and  I  will  be  his  God,  and  he  shall 
be  my  son.  (Rev.  21:7) 

And  then  again: 

To  him  that  overcometh  will  I  grant  to 
sit  with  me  in  my  throne,  even  as  I  also 
overcame,  and  am  set  down  with  my  Father 
in  his  throne.  (Ibid.,  3:21.) 

These  New  Testament  scriptures,  and 
many  others  that  could  be  cited,  teach 
the  doctrine  of  exaltation,  a  doctrine  of 


eternal  life  and  eternal  lives,  a  doctrine 
of  joint  heirship  with  Christ  the  Son. 
And  this  knowledge  has  been  given 
again,  with  more  particulars,  by  revela- 
tion in  this  day.  We  are  taught  that 
Christ  received  not  of  the  fulness  at 
the  first  but  went  from  grace  to  grace, 
until  he  received  a  fulness,  and  that  he 
finally  received  all  power  both  in 
heaven  and  on  earth.  After  having  this 
truth  recorded  in  the  revelation,  the 
Lord  says  that  he  is  doing  it  so  we  may 
know  what  we  worship  and  know  how 
to  worship,  and  that  if  we  keep  his 
commandments,  we  can  go  from  grace 
to  grace  until,  one  in  him  as  he  is  in 
the  Father,  we  may  inherit  a  fulness  of 
all  things. 

Now  the  knowledge  of  God  is  the 
beginning  of  true  religion.  Without  it 
there  cannot  be  faith  in  God.  The 
knowledge  of  God  is  the  end  of  all  true 
religion.  If  we  have  that  knowledge 
and  seek,  as  John  says,  to  purify  our- 
selves as  he  is  pure,  we  can  go  on  in 
eternal  progression,  having  reached  the 
blessings  of  peace  and  happiness  here, 
and  being  assured  of  an  eternal  reward 
in  the  mansions  that  are  prepared,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Mr  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  in 
humility  I  invoke  the  inspiration 
of  the  Lord  and  seek  an  interest 
in  your  faith  and  prayers  as  I  stand  for 
a  few  moments  in  this  pulpit.  I  should 
like,  if  the  Lord  will  bless  me,  to  give 
vent  to  some  thoughts  that  have  been 
deeply  impressed  upon  my  mind  for 
several  weeks  now.  I  hope  I  shall  not 
be  misunderstood.  It  seems  to  me  that 
the  day  in  which  we  live  demands  a 
frank  and  forthright  consideration  of 
some  of  the  problems  which  face  us, 
not  only  as  a  Church  but  also  as  a 
great  Christian  nation. 

With  you  I  thrilled  at  the  opening 
address  of  our  great  leader,  President 
McKay.  As  I  have  thought  of  his  re- 
marks regarding  this  land  of  America, 


its  achievements,  and  its  needs,  I  have 
felt  that  I  could  characterize  best  what 
he  said  in  two  words:  Spiritual  States- 
manship. With  you  I  love  this  land  in 
which  we  live.  I  am  proud  of  our 
heritage;  I  am  grateful  for  the  American 
tradition;  I  am  thankful  that  the  Lord 
has  given  through  his  prophets  informa- 
tion regarding  this  great  nation. 

However,  it  seems  to  me  that  there 
are  certain  tendencies,  trends,  and  prac- 
tices which  endanger  very  greatly  our 
way  of  life  and  strike  at  the  very  founda- 
tion of  much  that  we  hold  dear  as  a 
great  Christian  nation.  Of  course,  the 
conditions  of  the  world  generally  give 
us  cause  for  concern.  We  seem  to  live 
in  a  world  of  conflict,  insecurity,  uncer- 
tainty, and  almost  bewilderment.  We 


58 

Satwdmy,  April  5 

appear  to  be  groping  blindly,  aimlessly, 
unable  to  find  the  way.  Were  it  not 
for  our  faith  in  the  prophecies  of  God, 
I  fear  sometimes  we  would  almost  be 
tempted  to  give  up. 

We  are  in  the  midst  of  continuing 
international  crises.  The  outlook  for 
world  peace  and  security  is  dark  indeed. 
The  gravity  of  the  world  situation,  it 
appears,  is  increasing  almost  daily.  The 
United  Nations  seems  unable  to  settle 
the  troubles  of  the  world.  In  truth, 
we  are  faced  with  the  hard  fact  that 
the  United  Nations,  it  seems,  has  largely 
failed  in  its  purpose.  Yes,  the  days 
ahead  are  sobering  and  challenging 
ones.  We  might  well  ask,  America — 
what  of  the  future? 

I  never  travel  across  this  great  land 
and  note  its  broad,  fruitful  farms,  its 
humming  factories'  and  gleaming  cities 
but  what  I  am  impressed  with  the  mar- 
vels of  this  great  nation.  Yes,  we  have 
made  unequaled  material  progress.  We 
have  become  the  greatest  and  the  rich- 
est nation  in  all  the  world.  This  has 
been  done  on  about  6%  of  the  land 
area  of  the  world  by  a  relatively  small 
group  of  people,  only  7%  of  the  world's 
population.  Yet  it  is  reported  that 
this  small  group  of  people  produce  today 
approximately  half  of  the  world's  total 
wealth  in  usable  form  to  satisfy  human 
needs.  It  is  reported  that  in  the  year 
1950  almost  half  of  the  food  and  fiber 
of  the  world  was  produced  here  in  the 
United  States.  Our  productivity  has 
increased  one-fifth  every  ten  years  since 
1850.  Through  the  use  of  machines, 
much  of  the  drudgery  and  toil  so  com- 
mon in  many  other  nations  has  disap- 
peared. Our  engineers  have  estimated 
that  the  average  worker  today  has  the 
equivalent  of  99  mechanical  slaves  work- 
ing for  him.  The  Twentieth  Century 
Fund  recently  predicted  that  by  1960, 
96%  of  all  the  energy  going  into  physical 
work  in  America  would  be  performed 
by  machines,  1%  by  horses,  and  3%  by 
men.  The  average  American  worker 
has  an  output  per  hour  six  times  his 
output  in  1850.  Yes,  we  have  made 
unprecedented  achievements  in  mate- 
rial things. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

The  prophets  of  God  foreshadowed 
these  achievements  when  they  predicted 
that  this  would  be  a  land  choice  above 
all  other  lands  and  that  it  would  be 
preserved  for  a  righteous  people.  Those 
who  were  to  dwell  here,  if  they  served 
the  God  of  the  land,  should  be  free 
from  bondage  and  captivity.  Lehi,  who 
led  the  second  colony  which  came  to  this 
great  land,  was  told  that  he  was  leading 
that  colony  to  a  land  of  promise  and 
that  none  should  come  here  save  those 
who  would  come  here  under  the  influ- 
ence of  heaven.  This  land  would  be 
consecrated  unto  those  whom  the  Lord 
would  guide  here.  It  would  be  a  land 
of  liberty.  Lehi's  son,  Jacob,  said  there 
should  be  no  kings  upon  this  land,  that 
the  God  of  heaven  would  be  their  king, 
that  this  land  would  be  fortified  against 
all  other  nations,  and  that  he  who  would 
fight  against  Zion  should  perish. 

Reference  has  been  made  by  Presi- 
dent Young  to  the  coming  of  Columbus. 
The  scriptures  tell  us  that  the  Spirit 
wrought  upon  Columbus,  and  upon 
those  who  followed  him,  and  that  they 
came  here  under  the  inspiration  of 
heaven.  Nephi  predicted  that  when 
they  arrived,  they  would  humble  them- 
selves before  God,  that  the  power  of 
the  Lord  would  be  with  them,  and 
that  they  would  prosper.  Our  history 
clearly  records  that  the  early  peoples 
who  did  come  were  humble,  God-fear- 
ing men  and  women.  Bradford  records 
that  their  first  act  upon  arriving  here 
upon  American  soil  was  to  go  upon 
their  knees  in  humble  prayer  and  bless 
the  God  of  heaven. 

The  impelling  force  in  their  hearts, 
it  seems  to  me,  was  a  love  for  basic 
ideals  and  principles,  which  were  dearer 
to  them  than  life  itself.  Among  these 
were  their  love  of  God,  faith  in  his 
divine  purposes,  their  love  of  freedom, 
industry,  thrift,  decency,  and  honor. 
Yes,  this  nation  had  its  beginning  in  a 
high-minded  manner.  The  rules  of 
conduct  established  by  the  early 
colonists  and  our  founding  fathers  were 
taken  from  the  scriptures.  They  were 
embodied  in  the  Decalogue  and  in  the 
gospel.    The  Sabbath  was  set  aside  as 


ELDER  EZRA 

a  sacred  day.  Profanity  and  other  vices 
were  condemned,  and  gambling  was 
forbidden.  People  were  encouraged  to 
keep  good  company  and  to  repeat  no 
grievances.  They  emphasized  the  spirit- 
ual virtues. 

Washington  but  echoed  the  general 
feeling  of  the  early  colonists  when  he 
acknowledged  God's  direction  and  em- 
phasized the  importance  of  spirituality, 
honor,  and  moral  courage.  He  said: 

No  people  can  be  found  to  acknowledge 
and  adore  the  Invisible  Hand  which  con- 
ducts the  affairs  of  men  more  than  the 
people  of  the  United  States.  Every  step 
by  which  they  have  advanced  to  the  char- 
acter of  an  independent  nation  seems  to 
have  been  distinguished  by  some  token  of 
providential  agency. 

Then  as  to  the  place  of  religion  and 
morality,  the  Father  of  our  country 
stated: 

Of  all  the  dispositions  and  habits  which 
lead  to  political  prosperity,  religion  and 
morality  are  indispensable  supports.  .  .  . 
Reason  and  experience  both  forbid  us  to 
expect  that  national  morality  can  prevail 
in  exclusion  of  religious  principle. 

His  successors  spoke  in  similar  vein. 
Lincoln  emphasized  the  same  thought 
when  he  acknowledged  that  "God  rules 
this  world,"  and  that  "It  is  the  duty  of 
nations  as  well  as  men  to  own  their 
dependence  upon  the  overruling  power 
of  God,  to  confess  their  sins  and  trans- 
gressions in  humble  sorrow.  .  .  .  ,"  and 
then  quoting  from  the  scriptures,  "and 
to  recognize  the  sublime  truth  that 
those  nations  only  are  blessed  whose 
God  is  the  Lord."  Yes,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  they  spoke  of  self-evident 
truths — inalienable  rights. 

When  the  Prophet  Joseph  came  upon 
the  scene  to  open  a  new  gospel  dis- 
pensation, he  shed  even  further  light 
upon  the  establishment  of  this  great 
nation  and  the  coming  forth  of  the 
Constitution,  which  he  stated  was  a 
glorious  standard,  founded  in  the  wis- 
dom of  God.  Through  revelation  the 
Lord  said  to  him,  as  was  quoted  by 
Brother  Moyle  yesterday, 

Therefore,  it  is  not  right  that  any  man 
should  be  in  bondage  one  to  another. 


TAFT  BENSON  59 

And  for  this  purpose  have  I  established 
the  Constitution  of  this  land,  by  the  hands 
of  wise  men  whom  I  raised  up  unto  this 
very  purpose,  and  redeemed  the  land  by 
the  shedding  of  blood.  (D.  &  C.  101:79-80.) 

We  have  enjoyed  divine  favor  through 
much  of  our  history,  but  what  of  the 
future?  It  seems  to  me,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  the  lessons  of  history, 
many  of  them  very  sobering,  ought  to 
be  turned  to  during  this  hour  of  our 
great  achievement  because  I  feel  in  my 
own  heart  that  during  the  hour  of  our 
success  is  our  greatest  danger.  I  feel 
firmly  that  even  during  the  hour  of  great 
prosperity,  a  nation  may  sow  the  seeds 
of  its  own  destruction.  This  may  hap- 
pen even  during  a  period  of  great  in- 
come, relatively  full  employment,  and 
high  business  activity.  History  reveals 
that  rarely  is  a  great  civilization  con- 
quered from  without  until  it  has  weak- 
ened or  destroyed  itself  within. 

I  read  recently  volume  three  of  that 
monumental  work  by  Will  Durant, 
The  Story  of  Civilization.  This  volume, 
entitled  Caesar  and  Christ,  covers  the 
rise  and  fall  of  the  Roman  Empire  and 
the  coming  forth  of  Christianity.  It 
covers  a  period  of  1125  years,  from 
800  B.C.  to  325  A.D.  At  the  end  of 
this  six-hundred-page  volume,  the  au- 
thor writes  an  epilogue  under  the  cap- 
tion "Why  Rome  Fell."  It  is  generally 
agreed  that  not  infrequently  history 
repeats  itself.  The  author  lists  the 
major  causes  why  this  great  civiliza- 
tion fell  apart.  I  wonder  if  there  is 
anything  in  what  he  says  for  us  to  take 
note  of  today.  As  a  read  this  volume, 
I  was  caused  to  reflect  on  the  similarity 
of  conditions  and  practices  then  and 
now.  May  I  give  you  briefly  his  sum- 
mary: 

The  first  group  of  causes  he  termed 
biological,  and  no  doubt  most  funda- 
mental. They  had  to  do  with  the 
limitation  of  families,  the  deferment 
and  avoidance  of  marriage,  the  refusal 
of  men  and  women  to  shoulder  the 
great  responsibilities,  God-ordained,  of 
honorable  parenthood.  He  mentioned 
that  sexual  excesses  were  indulged  in 


60 

Saturday,  April  5 

commonly,  both  in  and  outside  the 
marriage  covenant.  The  operation  of 
contraception  and  abortion  was  com- 
mon. This,  together  with  other  things, 
resulted  in  reduced  fertility.  Sex  ran 
riot,  and  moral  decay  resulted. 

He  mentioned  as  another  cause  of 
Rome's  decay,  the  waste  of  natural 
resources  in  mining,  deforestation,  ero- 
sion; the  neglect  of  irrigation  canals, 
but  most  important  of  all,  the  negli- 
gence of  harassed  and  discouraged  men, 
the  failure  to  teach  high  moral  princi- 
ples so  necessary  for  the  building  of 
real  character. 

Then  he  lists  with  great  emphasis 
the  rising  costs  of  government  because 
of  armies,  doles,  public  works,  expand- 
ing bureaucracy,  a  parasitic  court,  de- 
preciation of  currency,  absorption  of 
investment  capital  by  confiscatory  tax- 
ation. 

Is  there  anything  suggestive  in  this 
summary? 

May  I  give  you  the  following  figures 
on  this  last  grouping  particularly,  taken 
from  what  seem  to  be  reliable  sources? 
According  to  projected  estimates,  our 
federal  government  will  spend  during 
the  coming  fiscal  years,  1952-53,  more 
than  the  total  income  of  all  the  people 
west  of  the  Mississippi  River — 22  states. 
The  federal  payroll  in  1952  will  top 
22  billion — 4  billion  above  last  year 
and  16  times  the  1929  total.  Nearly 
one  out  of  every  four  adult  Americans 
is  receiving  regularly  federal  checks.  At 
the  present  rate,  by  1953  the  govern- 
ment will  be  spending  approximately 
38%  of  the  national  income.  During 
only  three  of  the  last  twenty  years  has 
our  federal  budget  been  balanced.  It 
requires  today  approximately  2l/2  mil- 
lion civilians  to  staff  the  federal 
bureaucracy. 

In  the  matter  of  the  depreciation  of 
the  currency,  it  is  reported  that  the 
present  dollar  is  worth  only  38  cents 
compared  to  the  1913  dollar,  and  that 
the  dollar  today  will  purchase  only 
about  half  as  much  as  it  did  in  1935- 
39. 

As  to  taxation,  the  federal  government 
took  in  taxes  during  all  past  administra- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

tions  up  to  six  years  ago — 156  years — 
248  billion  dollars.  In  the  last  six  years 
we  have  taken  in  taxes  260  billion,  and 
still  we  seem  not  to  have  enough  to 
pay  our  current  bills.  With  a  debt  of 
over  one-quarter  of  a  trillion  dollars, 
the  annual  interest  payment  is  6  billion 
dollars  plus,  more  than  all  government 
expenditures  in  1933. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  this 
author  lists  other  causes.  Political 
causes,  he  says,  were  rooted  in  one  fact, 
that  through  centralized  control  and  the 
increasing  despotism  of  the  state,  the 
citizens'  civic  sense  was  destroyed  and 
dried  up,  thus  destroying  statesmanship 
at  its  source.  Men  felt  powerless  to 
express  themselves  and  lost  interest  in 
government.  Yet,  I  presume,  Rome  has 
had  no  equal  in  the  art  of  government. 
She  achieved  a  democracy  of  free  men 
and  then  destroyed  it  with  corruption 
and  violence. 

With  you,  I  love  this  great  land  in 
which  we  live.  I  pray  for  the  chief 
executive  and  his  cabinet  and  the  legis- 
lative and  judicial  branches,  the  of- 
ficials of  our  states  and  our  cities.  But 
I  wonder  sometimes,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  what  our  founding  fathers,  our 
pioneer  fathers,  would  do  and  say  if 
they  were  here  today.  I'm  sure  they 
would  give  serious  reflection  to  present 
conditions.  I  wonder  if  they  would  not 
recognize  that  our  liberties  have  already 
been  abridged,  that  there  has  been  too 
much  of  a  tendency  for  us  to  call  upon 
our  federal  government  every  time  we 
felt  the  need  for  the  accomplishment  of 
any  particular  objective.  I  wonder  if 
we  haven't  had  a  tendency  to  call  for 
help  for  those  things  which  our  fore- 
fathers would  have  done  willingly  for 
themselves.  Yes,  I  presume  as  a  people 
we  are  to  blame,  but  I  feel  that  if 
they  were  here  today,  they  would  apply 
some  very  definite  tests  before  any  new 
service  or  new  program  were  approved. 
May  I  just  mention  three: 

First,  I  think  they  would  ask  the  ques- 
tion: Can  this  service,  assuming  it  is 
needed,  be  done  more  efficiently,  more 
effectively  by  our  federal  government, 
or  should  we  do  it  ourselves  on  the 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


61 


local  level?  They  believed  that  govern- 
ment is  best  which  governs  least.  Gov- 
ernment seems  to  be  inherently  wasteful 
and  inefficient.  Possibly  it  is  because 
the  profit  motive  and  competition — the 
very  life  of  private  enterprise — are  large- 
ly absent. 

Second,  How  will  it  affect  the  mor- 
ale and  the  character  of  the  people? 
This  seems  to  me  to  be  of  great  im- 
portance. They  were  interested  in  the 
building  of  character.  They  recognized 
that  character,  not  wealth  or  power  or 
position,  is  of  prime  consideration. 

Third,  they  would  possibly  ask:  How 
will  it  affect  our  free  institutions — 
the  church,  the  school,  the  home,  and 
our  local  form  of  government? 

I  believe  if  they  were  here,  they  would 
look  for  the  answers  to  the  decline  of 
public  morals.  As  they  looked  search- 
ingly  for  the  answers,  they  would  prob- 
ably observe  evidence  of  weak  and 
vacillating  leadership  in  many  places, 
not  confined  to  one  group  or  one  party. 
They  would  find  a  tendency  for  men 
in  high  places  to  place  political  expe- 
diency ahead  of  principle.  They  would 
be  concerned  with  the  alarming  growth 
of  a  something-for-nothing  philosophy, 
a  failure  of  people  to  stand  on  their 
own  feet.  They  would  probably  find 
bad  examples  by  unscrupulous  politi- 
cians and  by  delinquent  parents,  and 
possibly  a  weakening  of  religious  train- 
ing, and  the  substitution  therefor  of  a 
faith-destroying  materialism. 

I  think,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  as  American  citi- 
zens, we  need  to  rouse  ourselves  to  the 
problems  that  confront  us  as  a  great 
Christian  nation.  We  need  to  recog- 
nize that  these  fundamental,  basic 
principles,  moral  and  spiritual,  lay  at 
the  very  foundation  of  our  achievements 
in  the  past.  If  we  are  to  continue  to 
enjoy  our  present  blessings,  we  must 
have  a  return  to  these  basic  and  funda- 
mental principles.  Economics  and 
morals  are  both  parts  of  one  inseparable 
body  of  truth,  and  they  must  be  in 
harmony.  We  need  to  square  our 
actions  and  our  policies  with  these 
eternal  principles. 


I  wonder  if  we  have  forgotten  the 
counsel  of  the  prophets,  the  founding 
fathers,  and  our  great  statesmen.  Surely 
we  need  a  nationwide  return  to  these 
fundamentals.  We  need  a  nationwide 
repentance  to  rid  this  land  of  corruption. 
We  must  return  to  the  fundamental 
virtues  that  have  made  this  nation 
great.  There  is  a  force  in  the  universe 
which  no  mortal  can  alter.  This  na- 
tion does  have  a  spiritual  foundation. 
It  has  been  established  in  keeping  with 
great  spiritual  and  moral  principles, 
but  there  seems  to  be  a  tendency  for 
us  to  lose  our  sense  of  uprightness  and 
to  do  wilfully  those  things  which  we 
must  know  to  be  wrong.  This  cannot 
be  done  with  impunity. 

God  help  us  to  raise  our  sights  beyond 
the  dollar  sign,  beyond  material  things. 
May  we  have  the  courage  to  stand  up 
and  be  counted,  to  stand  for  principle, 
for  those  principles  and  ideals  which 
guided  the  founding  fathers  in  the  es- 
tablishment of  this  great  land.  Thank 
God  for  the  promises  that  have  been 
made  regarding  the  future  of  America. 
I  hope  and  pray  we  shall  realize  the 
fulfilment  of  these  promises  because  we 
merit  their  fulfilment.  I  am  grateful 
that  the  Lord  has  said  through  his 
prophets  that  this  nation  unto  the 
righteous  shall  be  blessed  forever,  and 
that  he  will  be  a  light  unto  them  for- 
ever that  hear  his  words. 

God  help  us  that  we  may  not  drift 
farther  from  the  principles  of  faith 
and  honor  established  by  those  noble 
founding  fathers  and  the  pioneers  who 
settled  these  valleys.  We  need  this 
faith,  we  need  a  close  adherence  to  these 
basic  principles.  It  is  my  conviction, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  na- 
tion or  no  other  nation  will  be  saved 
materially  unless  in  some  way  it  is 
strengthened,  redeemed,  and  regenerated 
spiritually.  God  bless  us  in  that  re- 
demption, that  we  may  go  forward  and 
live  the  principles  that  have  been 
so  basic  and  so  fundamental  in  bring- 
ing this  great  nation  to  its  present 
standing  in  the  world,  I  humbly  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  5 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  congregation  will  now  sing,  "How 
Firm  A  Foundation." 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Melvin  A.  Weenig,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  Central  Pacific  Mission, 
after  which  this  conference  will  stand 
adjourned  until  2  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

The  singing  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  the  congregation,  as  you 
know,  with  Brother  Richard  P.  Condie 


Second  Day 

conducting,  and  Brother  Roy  M,  Darley 
at  the  organ. 

We  will  all  join  in  singing  "How 
Firm  A  Foundation." 


The  congregation  joined  in  singing 
the  hymn,  "How  Firm  A  Foundation." 

Elder  Melvin  A.  Weenig,  former  presi- 
dent of  the  Central  Pacific  Mission,  of- 
fered the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  Saturday  after- 
noon, April  5,  at  2:00  p.m. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Notwithstanding  this  is  a  glorious  day, 
inviting  people  to  stroll  in  the  sunshine, 
the  Tabernacle  is  crowded  to  capacity, 
as  we  begin  this,  the  fourth  session 
of  the  122nd  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church. 

For  the  information  of  the  radio  and 
television  audience,  we  will  say  that 
we  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City.  There 
are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon, 
all  of  the  General  Authorities,  excepting 
President  Richards  in  Great  Britain,  and 
I  believe  that  the  doctor  prohibits 
Thomas  E.  McKay  from  attending  any 
more  than  one  session  a  day. 

These  services  and  all  general  ses- 
sions of  the  conference  will  be  broad- 
cast in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  the 
Barratt  Hall  over  a  loudspeaking  system 
and  by  television,  and  the  proceedings 
of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over 
Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by 
arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the  sta- 
tions named  at  the  opening  session  of 
the  conference,  including  surrounding 
states,  Colorado,  Nevada,  Idaho,  Ari- 


zona, and  New  Mexico.  The  session 
will  be  televised  also  over  KSL  television 
station,  channel  five. 

The  singing  for  this  session  will  be 
furnished  by  members  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall, 
conducting,  and  Elder  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  the  services  by  mem- 
bers of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  singing, 
"Father,  O  Hear  Me."  The  opening 
prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder  Selvoy  J. 
Boyer,  formerly  president  of  the  British 
Mission. 


Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
Chorus,  "Father,  O  Hear  Me." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Selvoy  J.  Boyer,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  British  Mission. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  chorus  then 
sang  "God  So  Loved  the  World." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  commend  our  Choir  leader  for 
those  most  appropriate  opening  hymns. 

Our  first  speaker  this  afternoon  will 
be  Elder  Albert  E.  Bowen,  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  who  will  be  followed 
by  Brother  Richard  L.  Evans. 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


For  almost  two  days  now  I  have  been 
looking  out  over  the  faces  of  those 
who  have  congregated  here,  noting 
the  evidence  of  devotion  to  the  purpose 
which  has  brought  them  together.  Every 
aspect  of  their  features  has  indicated 
that  they  have  come  with  solemn  intent. 
Not  that  there  is  sadness,  there  is  a 
joyous  sobriety  manifest  in  their  coun- 
tenances. 

I  note,  too,  a  manifestation  of  ex- 
pectancy written  all  over  your  faces, 
and  that  is  very  sobering  because  I 
realize  that  you  expect  something  from 
those  who  assume  this  position.  The 
purpose,  I  have  no  doubt,  is  that  you 
might  draw  some  fortification  for  your 
faith,  and  some  strengthening  help  to 
face  the  issues  of  life  and  wrestle  with 
its  problems  as  they  come  to  you  day 
by  day. 

We  very  rarely  pick  up  a  magazine 
now  or  a  newspaper,  that  does  not  advise 
us  somewhere  along  the  line  that  some- 
body has  said  that  the  great  need  of  this 
world  today  is  increased  spirituality. 
That  idea  is  voiced  in  varied  forms. 
Sometimes  it  is  expressed  as  a  greater 
dedication  to  religion,  a  more  complete 
incorporation  of  the  principles  of  re- 
ligion into  our  lives,  and  that  is  heralded 
as  one  of  the  things  that  could  cure 
the  ills  of  the  world. 

But  as  I  listen  to  further  expositions, 
I  find  a  great  deal  of  vagueness  in  those 
expressions.  I  am  not  sure  that  I  know 
just  what  those  who  use  them  mean. 
I  am  not  sure  that  I  know  just  what,  in 
their  minds,  religion  signifies. 

There  are  a  great  many  learned 
disquisitions  about  what  religion  is, 
the  features  that  constitute  it,  and,  what 
the  essential  factors  in  it  are. 

It  is  not  my  purpose  here  to  go  into 
any  of  those  discussions.  This  is  neither 
the  time  nor  the  place  for  that.  But  I 
am  going  to  assume  that  I  can  tell  you 
what  our  religion  is,  and  I  intend  to 
say  and  do  say  that  our  religion  com- 
prises the  teachings  and  life  and  actions 


of  Jesus  of  Nazareth.  That  constitutes 
our  religion. 

It  all  centers  in  Jesus  the  Christ.  So 
far  as  I  know,  in  all  the  reading  I  have 
been  able  to  do,  all  the  research  made, 
there  is  no  principle  of  right  action, 
no  ethical  principle,  recognized  in  the 
world  today  that  is  not  comprehended  in 
the  teachings  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  believe 
that  if  all  the  books  on  ethics  were 
burned  today,  and  we  had  left  the  ut- 
terances of  the  Christ  and  the  teachings 
of  the  Apostles  whom  he  commissioned 
to  carry  his  message  to  the  world,  we 
should  have  a  perfect  and  concrete 
guide  to  human  conduct. 

Our  religion  comprehends  more  than 
just  the  ethical  code.  It  contains  a 
body  of  principles,  through  the  ob- 
servance of  which  we  are  promised  the 
great  reward  of  eternal  life  and  salva- 
tion in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

I  want  to  turn  here  to  the  words  of 
Peter,  as  recorded  in  the  Acts, 

But  Peter,  standing  up  with  the  eleven, 
lifted  up  his  voice,  and  said  unto  them,  Ye 
men  of  Judea,  and  all  ye  that  dwell  at 
Jerusalem,  be  this  known  unto  you,  and 
hearken  to  my  words: 

For  these  are  not  drunken,  as  ye  suppose, 
seeing  it  is  but  the  third  hour  of  the  day. 

(He  was  referring,  of  course,  to  the 
supposition  that  the  Apostles  must  be 
drunken  because  of  the  manifestations 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  that  they  were  actu- 
ated by.) 

But  this  is  that  which  was  spoken  by 
the  Prophet  Joel; 

And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  the  last 
days,  saith  God,  I  will  pour  out  of  my 
Spirit  upon  all  flesh:  and  your  sons  and  your 
daughters  shall  prophesy,  and  your  young 
men  shall  see  visions,  and  your  old  men 
shall  dream  dreams:  .  .  . 

Ye  men  of  Israel,  hear  these  words;  Jesus 
of  Nazareth,  a  man  approved  of  God  among 
you  by  miracles  and  wonders  and  signs, 
which  God  did  by  him  in  the  midst  of  you, 
as  ye  yourselves  also  know: 

Him,  being  delivered  by  the  determinate 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  5 

counsel  and  foreknowledge  of  God,  ye  have 
taken  and  by  wicked  hands  have  crucified 
and  slain: 

Whom  God  hath  raised  up,  having  loosed 
the  pains  of  death:  because  it  was  not  pos- 
sible that  he  should  be  holden  of  it.  .  .  . 

Therefore  let  all  the  house  of  Israel 
know  assuredly,  that  God  hath  made  that 
same  Jesus,  whom  ye  have  crucified,  both 
Lord  and  Christ.  (Acts  2:14-17,  22-24,  36.) 

That  is  the  kind  of  teaching  that 
introduced  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
in  the  ancient  day.  There  is  no  equivo- 
cation, no  temporizing,  there  is  no  dodg- 
ing of  the  issue.  There  is  the  straight- 
forward declaration  that  this  man  who 
had  lived  among  them  was  recognized 
of  God,  that  they  had  taken  him  in 
foul  hands  and  had  destroyed  his  life, 
but  that  he  was  raised  up  and  had  be- 
come and  was  recognized  of  God  as 
both  Lord  and  Christ. 

That  is  our  religion.  That  is  what 
we  believe.  Wipe  that  out,  and  we 
have  nothing  left  upon  which  to  rest 
our  faith.  It  is  basic  to  every  principle 
that  is  acknowledged  in  our  teaching  or 
in  the  teaching  of  those  who,  under 
guidance  of  the  Christ,  were  his  mes- 
sengers to  establish  his  work. 

This  is  a  great  teaching  Church.  Its 
business  is  to  teach.  Men  can  be  per- 
suaded, their  lives  reformed  through 
persuasion.  No  man  may  be  coerced, 
and  no  belief  was  ever  established  by 
attempted  coercion  or  force.  Jesus  re- 
sorted to  the  method  of  persuasion,  and 
our  business  as  his  representatives  is  to 
persuade  people  over  whom  we  may 
have  influence  to  accept  the  doctrine, 
and  when  they  have  accepted  it  in  their 
hearts,  they  are  born  again.  They  do 
not  want  to  resort  to  the  evil  practices 
from  which  they  have  been  converted. 
They  want  to  order  their  lives  accord- 
ing to  the  purity  of  his  teachings. 

Foremost  among  the  teachings  that 
Jesus  uttered  was  his  recognition  of  God 
the  Father.  To  him  he  prayed.  He  said 
that  he  was  come  to  do  the  Father's 
will,  not  his  own.  He  told  his  disciples 
that  he  had  done  nothing  except  what 
he  had  seen  the  Father  do,  putting 
himself  into  humble  submission  before 


Second  Day 

the  omnipotent  power  of  the  God  of 
heaven. 

As  he  directed  his  messengers  to  go 
out,  he  told  them  that  they  should 
carry  his  message  and  teach  it  to  all 
nations,  baptizing  them  in  the  name  of 
the  Father  and  of  the  Son  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  and  teaching  them  to  ob- 
serve all  things  "whatsoever  I  have  com- 
manded you."  That  is  all  that  is  re- 
quired of  any  man. 

If  we  would  do  all  the  things  what- 
soever God  commanded,  or  his  Son, 
Jesus  Christ,  which  is  the  same  thing 
authoritatively,  we  would  have  no 
troubles  in  this  world.  There  would 
be  peace  and  harmony  and  good  will. 
War  would  be  impossible.  All  the 
ugliness  of  life,  everything  that  destroys 
beauty  and  desirability  would  be 
cleansed  out  from  the  earth.  In  that 
instruction  is  comprehended  the  whole 
sweep  of  the  gospel  teaching. 

He  taught  that  man  has  a  destiny, 
what  that  destiny  is,  and  how  to  achieve 
it;  that  it  is  all  dependent  upon  con- 
formance to  the  plan  given.  We  have 
heard  something  in  this  conference 
about  a  plan.  It  is  a  designed  plan.  It 
is  the  only  plan  that  assures  salvation 
to  the  children  of  men,  the  promise  is 
predicated  upon  the  assumption  that 
we  obey  the  teachings  of  that  plan. 

All  that  we  know  of  record  about  the 
earth  life  of  the  Son  of  God  is  con- 
tained in  the  books  of  the  New  Testa- 
ment— the  Gospels,  the  Acts  of  the 
Apostles.  It  has  been  said  that  if  you 
blot  out  the  books  of  the  Acts,  you  would 
leave  a  great  blank  covering  a:  very 
important  period  in  the  life  and  min- 
istry of  Jesus  prior  to  his  death  and 
resurrection,  as  well  as  occurrences  after 
that  period. 

We  turn  to  those  books  as  the  authori- 
tative source  of  our  information,  accept- 
ing them  as  the  word  of  God  for  the 
guidance  of  his  children.  And  that 
same  fidelity  of  purpose,  the  same  cour- 
ageous conviction  and  declaration  of  it, 
as  was  voiced  by  Peter  on  that  Pente- 
costal day,  has  rung  down  through  the 
ages  since  that  time. 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 


65 


Paul  was  not  of  those  who  had  lived 
with  the  Christ,  walked  with  him.  He 
was  rather  a  persecutor  of  his  saints — 
by  his  own  account  he  had  viciously 
persecuted  them,  but  he  became  a  great 
expounder  of  the  faith.  This  is  how 
it  happened. 

Standing  in  bonds  before  Agrippa  to 
answer  the  charges  made  against  him, 
he  said: 

At  midday,  O  king,  I  saw  in  the  way  a 
light  from  heaven,  above  the  brightness  of 
the  sun,  shining  round  about  me  and  them 
which  journeyed  with  me. 

And  when  we  were  all  fallen  to  the 
earth,  I  heard  a  voice  speaking  unto  me,  and 
saying  in  the  Hebrew  tongue,  Saul,  Saul, 
why  persecutest  thou  me?  it  is  hard  for 
thee  to  kick  against  the  pricks. 

And  I  said,  Who  art  thou,  Lord?  And 
he  said,  I  am  Jesus  whom  thou  perse- 
cutest. (Ibid.,  26:13-15.) 

It  is  the  testimony  of  those  who  walked 
with  him  during  his  mortal  life.  It  is 
the  testimony  of  those  who  received 
their  testimony  and  became  convinced 
in  their  own  souls.  It  was  the  testi- 
mony of  Paul.  It  is  the  one  sure  way  to 
live  by  the  teachings  which  he  ex- 
pounded, and  that  same  authoritative 
declaration  of  personal  knowledge  has 
come  down  through  all  the  ages  of  time 
and  has  been  repeated  in  our  day,  and 
thus  we  read  that  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  Sidney  Rigdon,  in  the  tem- 
ple, declare  this: 

And  while  we  meditated  upon  these 
things,  the  Lord  touched  the  eyes  of  our 
understandings  and  they  were  opened,  and 
the  glory  of  the  Lord  shone  round  about. 

And  we  beheld  the  glory  of  the  Son, 
on  the  right  hand  of  the  Father,  and  re- 
ceived of  his  fulness; 

And  saw  the  holy  angels,  and  them  who 
are  sanctified  before  his  throne,  worshiping 
God,  and  the  Lamb,  who  worship  him  for- 
ever and  ever. 

And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies 
which  have  been  given  of  him,  this  is  the 
testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of 
him:  That  he  lives! 

For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand 
of  God;  and  we  heard  the  voice  bearing 
record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the 
Father- 


That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of 
him,  the  worlds  are  and  were  created,  and 
the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons 
and  daughters  unto  God.  (D.  &  C.  76:19- 
24.) 

Here  is  a  sober  declaration  of  men 
just  as  those  who  had  been  associated 
with  the  Christ  gave  their  testimony  of 
what  they  had  seen  and  heard,  and 
those  testimonials  may  not  be  idly 
brushed  aside.  They  are  entitled  to 
every  credence  that  is  normally  ac- 
corded to  the  words  of  any  honest  man 
whose  integrity  has  not  been  impeached. 

That  is  the  foundation  of  our  religion. 
That  is  the  kind  of  teaching  that  won 
its  way  until  it  had  established  itself 
as  a  recognized  religion  of  the  great 
empire  of  Rome  after  a  period  of  perse- 
cution. That  is  the  only  kind  of  faith 
that  will  keep  men  safe  in  the  course 
that  leads  to  eternal  salvation. 

It  did  happen.  It  happened  by  slow 
degrees.  Nobody  can  tell  just  when  it 
first  began,  but  these  sober  declarations 
began  to  meet  with  some  doubt,  and 
men  began  to  philosophize  about  these 
sober  declarations.  Gradually  question- 
ings began  to  have  their  effect  by  in- 
filtration and  dilution,  until  this  pro- 
found faith  was  sadly  shaken. 

By  the  third  or  fourth  century  it  was 
almost  blotted  out  as  a  simple  declara- 
tion of  faith  through  an  attempted  ad- 
mixture with  Greek  and  other  philoso- 
phies. Such  is  the  inevitable  consequence 
when  men  try  to  rationalize  the  word 
of  God,  the  testimony  of  his  servants, 
to  accommodate  it  to  the  teachings  of 
their  philosophies,  and  make  it  more 
palatable  to  their  understanding  or  their 
likes.  From  that  day  to  this,  the  Church 
has  been  derelict  in  its  duty  to  proclaim 
the  undiluted  word  so  that  now  when 
men  say  to  us,  "We  need  a  revival  of 
religion,"  a  lot  of  them  who  use  those 
phrases  do  not  even  believe  in  the  ex- 
istence of  God. 

They  do  not  believe  that  Jesus  was 
the  Son  of  God  nor  that  he  was  resur- 
rected from  the  dead.  They  are  using 
idle  phrases.   If  men  really  believed, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


66 

Saturday,  April  5 

they  would  do  something  about  it,  and 
if  that  belief  were  implemented  into  the 
lives  of  men  in  this  world,  it  would 
cure  the  ills  under  which  the  world  is 
groaning. 

During  the  war,  the  editor  of  a  na- 
tional magazine,  the  magazine  Fortune, 
to  be  exact,  wrote  out  a  series  of  ques- 
tions that  he  distributed  to  a  large  body 
of  the  clergy,  asking  their  opinions 
about  certain  beliefs.  Their  answers 
disappointed  him  by  their  wordy  cir- 
cumlocutions and  avoidance  of  positive 
commitments. 

He  wrote  a  most  penetrating  editorial 
about  it.  This,  among  other  things,  is 
what  he  said: 

A  Christian  leadership  has  passed  from 
the  hands  of  the  church  to  the  hands  of 
the  active  and  practical  laity — the  states- 
men and  educators,  the  columnists  and 
pundits,  the  scientists  and  great  men  of 
action,  and  this  is  only  another  way  of  say- 
ing that  there  is  no  true  Christian  leadership 
at  all.  So  far  as  the  record  goes,  the 
American  people  would  do  as  well  by  their 
souls  to  follow  the  advice  of  the  industrial 
leaders  as  to  follow  the  advice  of  the 
spiritual  leaders.  Thus  the  flock  is  leading 
the  shepherd. 

So  long  as  the  Church  pretends  or  as- 
sumes to  preach  absolute  values,  but  actually 
preaches  relative  and  secondary  values,  it 
will  merely  hasten  the  process  of  disinte- 
gration. We  are  asked  to  turn  to  the 
church  for  enlightenment,  but  when  we  do 
so  we  find  that  the  voice  of  the  church  is 
not  inspired.  The  voice  of  the  church 
today,  we  find,  is  the  echo  of  our  own 
voices,  and  the  result  of  his  experience  is 
disillusionment. 

This  is  the  profound  and  absolute  spirit- 
ual disillusionment  arising  from  the  fact 
that  when  we  consult  the  church  we  only 
hear  what  we  ourselves  have  said.  The 
effect  of  this  experience  upon  the  present 
generation  has  been  profound.  It  is  the 
effect  of  a  vicious  spiral  like  the  economists 
talk  about  that  leads  into  depressions,  but 
in  this  spiral  there  is  at  stake  not  merely 
prosperity,  but  civilization. 

There  is  only  one  way  out  of  that 
spiral.  The  way  out  is  the  sound  of  a 
voice.  Not  our  voice,  but  a  voice  coming 
from  something  not  ourselves,  in  the  exist- 
ence of  which  we  cannot  disbelieve.  It  is 


Second  Day 

the  earthly  task  of  the  pastors  to  hear  this 
voice,  to  cause  us  to  hear  it,  and  to  tell 
us  what  it  says.  If  they  cannot  hear  it,  or  if 
they  fail  to  tell  us,  we  as  laymen  are  en- 
tirely lost.  Without  it  we  are  no  more 
capable  of  saving  the  world  than  we  were 
of  creating  it  in  the  first  place. 

That  is  a  penetrating  analysis  of  the 
cause  for  the  ills  of  the  world.  To  gain 
favor,  to  enhance  our  popularity,  to 
avoid  giving  offense,  we  have  adopted 
the  theories  of  men  and  tried  to  inte- 
grate them  with  the  teachings  of  the 
Son  of  God,  and  they  will  not  mix. 
The  result  is  that  the  church,  instead 
of  setting  the  pattern,  marking  out  the 
path,  has  been  adopting  what  has  been 
adopted  as  practice  among  the  men  of 
business — the  laboring  men,  the  laity 
of  the  world — and  the  voice  of  the 
laymen,  modified  and  given  essence  by 
the  things  they  want  to  do  and  like 
to  practise,  guided  by  their  selfish  inter- 
ests, has  drowned  out  the  voice  of  the 
church,  and  the  leaders  of  the  church 
have  lost  their  powerful,  guiding  influ- 
ence. Men  refused  to  heed  its  words, 
finding  in  them  only  the  echo  of  the 
words  of  the  laity  that  are  spoken  about. 

In  my  view  there  is  only  one  safety; 
there  is  only  one  cure;  and  that  is  to 
take  the  pure  and  unadulterated  word 
of  God  and  set  that  up  as  our  standard 
of  measurement,  and  measure  every 
creed  and  doctrine  and  dogma  by  that 
yardstick.  That  which  will  not  square 
with  the  declarations  of  Almighty  God 
we  can  lay  aside  as  unsuited  for  the 
need  of  man,  and  orient  ourselves  again 
in  that  declaration  of  Peter,  re-echoed 
by  Paul,  by  all  the  disciples  of  the 
Christ,  so  long  as  his  teachings  remained 
undefiled  and  uncorrupted,  and  set  that 
up  as  the  guide  to  our  course  of  life. 

Then  we  shall  not  have  these  appeals, 
we  shall  not  need  these  appeals  to  men 
to  modify  their  governments  because 
their  governments  will  be  founded  in 
righteousness,  and  righteousness  will 
prevail. 

God  grant  it  may  be,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


67 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


I am  sure  that  the  sense  of  expectancy, 
of  which  Brother  Bowen  spoke,  is  in- 
deed overpowering  to  all  of  us,  jmd 
that  we  are  all  well  aware  that  of  our- 
selves it  will  not  be  satisfied.  I  pray  that 
it  may  be  satisfied  through  the  direction 
and  blessing  of  him  in  whose  name  we 
are  met  here. 

There  has  been  running  through  my 
mind  a  sentence  spoken  by  President 
McKay  during  the  last  few  days:  "Give 
encouragement  to  the  people."  It  came 
before  me  again  as  the  combined 
choruses  of  Brigham  Young  University  so 
beautifully  sang  here  yesterday,  "He 
watching  over  Israel,  slumbers  not,  nor 
sleeps.  Shouldst  thou  walking  in  grief 
languish,  he  will  quicken  thee." 

The  adverse  and  long  winter;  the  un- 
certainties of  the  times  and  seasons,  the 
perplexities  and  problems  of  our  young 
people  have  suggested  another  long- 
cherished  passage  of  scripture  found  in 
Genesis  in  a  promise  to  Noah: 

While  the  earth  remaineth,  seedtime  and 
harvest,  and  cold  and  heat,  and  summer  and 
winter,  and  day  and  night  shall  not  cease. 
(Genesis  8:22.) 

I  am  sure  that  there  are  many  other 
things  also  which  shall  not  cease  includ- 
ing truth,  association  with  those  we  love, 
the  possibilities  of  progress,  and  a  glori- 
ous future  to  work  for  and  to  live  for, 
and  I  am  indeed  grateful. 

We  can  find  encouragement  despite 
some  of  the  physical  facts  that  we  face. 

A  thoughtful  person  who  lives 
across  the  mountains  to  the  east  (George 
W.  Olinger)  has  sent  within  the  last 
two  or  three  days  a  statement  or  two 
that  I  should  like  to  read  briefly  into 
the  record.  I  wish  I  knew  who  wrote 
them  so  I  could  give  credit.  One  sen- 
tence carried  this  thought:  We  may  be 
faced  with  a  lowered  physical  standard 
of  living,  but  we  need  not  be  faced  with 
lowered  standards  of  thinking.  And 


there  was  enclosed  this  series  of  simple 
suggestions: 

Learn  to  like  what  doesn't  cost  much. 

Learn  to  like  reading,  conversation,  music. 

Learn  to  like  plain  food,  plain  service, 
plain  cooking. 

Learn  to  like  fields,  trees,  brooks,  hiking, 
rowing,  climbing  hills. 

Learn  to  like  people  even  though  some  of 
them  may  be  .  .  .  different  from  you.  .  .  . 

Learn  to  like  to  work  and  enjoy  the  satis- 
faction of  doing  your  job  as  well  as  it  can 
be  done. 

Learn  to  like  the  songs  of  the  birds,  the 
companionship  of  dogs. 

Learn  to  like  gardening,  puttering  around 
the  house,  and  fixing  things. 

Learn  to  like  the  sunrise  and  sunset,  the 
beating  of  the  rain  on  the  roof  and  the 
windows,  and  the  gentle  fall  of  snow  on  a 
winter  day. 

Learn  to  keep  your  wants  simple,  and 
refuse  to  be  controlled  by  the  likes  and  dis- 
likes of  others. 

We  are  reminded  of  another  beautiful 
thought  accredited  to  H.  G.  Wells  by  a 
contemporary  writer,  and  which  suggests 
that  man  should  not  allow  "the  watch 
and  the  calendar  to  blind  him  to  the 
fact  that  each  moment  of  his  life  is  a 
miracle  and  a  mystery." 

I  think  we  can  take  encouragement 
in  the  many  marvelous  things  there  are 
to  enjoy  regardless  of  other  physical 
facts  that  we  may  face. 

I  think  we  can  take  encouragement  in 
some  other  things  also.  Some  of  the  pon- 
derable problems,  the  unanswered  ques- 
tions, the  seeming  injustices  and  discrep- 
ancies and  uncertainties,  some  of  which 
President  Smith  and  Brother  Kimball 
spoke  of  yesterday,  which  we  often  have 
a  difficult  time  in  reconciling,  will  find 
answer  and  solution  and  satisfaction  if 
we  are  patient  and  prayerful  and  willing 
to  wait.  Part  of  them  are  the  price  we 
pay  for  our  free  agency.  We  pay  a  great 
price  for  free  agency  in  this  world,  but 
it  is  worth  the  price  we  pay.  One  of  the 


68 

Saturday,  April  5 

cherished  sentences  I  recall  from  the 
utterances  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
is  that  one  which  says  that  "an  hour  of 
virtuous  liberty  on  earth  is  worth  a 
whole  eternity  of  bondage."  So  long  as 
men  have  their  free  agency,  there  will 
be  temporary  injustices  and  discrepan- 
cies and  some  seemingly  inexplicable 
things,  which  utimately  in  our  Father's 
own  time  and  purpose  will  be  reconciled 
and  made  right. 

There  are  many  other  things  that  give 
us  cause  for  encouragement — and  I 
shan't  take  time  to  name  them  now — I 
know  that  President  McKay  is  under  the 
pressure  of  time  but  I  shall  pass  over  to 
one  last  one  quickly:  Encouragement  to 
our  young  people  in  the  uncertainties 
they  face.  I  should  like  to  say  to  them 
before  I  close  that  our  Father  in  heaven 
sent  us  here  not  to  fail  but  to  succeed, 
and  he  has  made  it  possible  for  us  to 
succeed.  He  knows  us  better  than  we 
know  ourselves,  and  he  knows  the  cir- 
cumstances and  uncertainties  we  face. 
It  is  his  declared  purpose  to  bring  to 
pass  our  immortality  and  eternal  life, 
and  to  give  us  joy,  if  we  will,  and  he 
hasn't  presented  any  impossible  set  of 
circumstances  or  any  impossible  plan  or 
purpose  for  us  to  achieve. 

Despite  all  the  uncertainties  and  dif- 
ficulties, there  is  a  glorious  and  worth- 
while future  for  all  of  these  young  people 
of  ours,  if  they  will  set  their  sights  on 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

some  permanent,  worth-while  goal,  look 
a  decade  or  two  ahead,  pay  the  price 
they  have  to  pay  to  achieve  it,  accept 
the  interruptions  as  they  come,  and 
have  faith,  to  work,  to  prepare,  to  pray, 
to  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  to 
pursue  their  lives  with  calm,  quiet  pur- 
pose. If  they  will  do  this  they  will  be 
blessed;  they  will  find  great,  rich  treas- 
ures in  life,  of  knowledge,  and  of  other 
things  also;  they  will  surmount  all  the 
difficulties  and  discouragements  of  the 
day,  and  all  the  interruptions,  and  all 
else,  if  they  will  continue  in  faith. 

It  is,  after  all,  a  wonderful  world  that 
our  Father  has  given  us,  in  which  every- 
thing is  possible  on  the  basis  of  repent- 
ance and  obedience,  and  on  observance 
of  the  principles  on  which  the  blessings 
are  predicated. 

Life  passes  quickly.  I  pray  that  we 
may  all  endure  to  the  end,  and  keep 
the  spirit  of  encouragement,  many  more 
reasons  for  which  we  might  have  men- 
tioned and  all  of  which  are  contem- 
plated in  our  Father's  plans  and  pur- 
poses for  us  and  are  within  our  reach, 
according  to  our  obedience  and  our  de- 
votion to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  not- 
withstanding what  environment  or  what 
companions  or  what  conditions  we  find 
ourselves  faced  with.  May  God  be  with 
us  and  bless  us  and  give  us  the  courage 
and  the  wisdom  to  endure  to  the  end 
in  faith,  I  pray  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


As  I  awoke  this  morning  and  looked 
out  over  this  beautiful  valley,  con- 
L  scious,  as  no  doubt  all  of  you  are,  of 
the  hard  winter  that  we  have  had,  I 
opened  the  Bible,  and  read  the  nine- 
teenth Psalm: 

The  heavens  declare  the  glory  of  God;  and 
the  firmament  sheweth  his  handywork. 

Day  unto  day  uttereth  speech,  and  night 
unto  night  sheweth  knowledge. 

There  is  no  speech  nor  language,  where 
their  voice  is  not  heard. 

Their  line  is  gone  out  through  all  the 


earth,  and  their  words  to  the  end  of  the 
world.  In  them  hath  he  set  a  tabernacle  for 
the  sun. 

Which  is  as  a  bridegroom  coming  out  of 
his  chamber,  and  rejoiceth  as  a  strong  man 
to  run  a  race. 

His  going  forth  is  from  the  end  of  the 
heaven,  and  his  circuit  unto  the  ends  of  it: 
and  there  is  nothing  hid  from  the  heat 
thereof. 

The  law  of  the  Lord  is  perfect,  converting 
the  soul:  the  testimony  of  the  Lord  is  sure, 
making  wise  the  simple. 

The  statutes  of  the  Lord  are  right,  rejoic- 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 


69 


ing  the  heart:  the  commandment  of  the 
Lord  is  pure,  enlightening  the  eyes. 

The  tear  of  the  Lord  is  clean,  enduring 
for  ever:  the  judgments  of  the  Lord  are  true 
and  righteous  altogether. 

More  to  be  desired  are  they  than  gold,  yea, 
than  much  fine  gold:  sweeter  also  than 
honey  and  the  honeycomb. 

Moreover  by  them  is  thy  servant  warned: 
and  in  keeping  of  them  there  is  great  re- 
ward. 

Who  can  understand  his  errors?  cleanse 
thou  me  from  secret  faults. 

Keep  back  thy  servant  also  from  pre- 
sumptuous sins;  let  them  not  have  domin- 
ion over  me:  then  shall  I  be  upright,  and 
I  shall  be  innocent  from  the  great  trans- 
gression. 

Let  the  words  of  my  mouth,  and  the 
meditation  of  my  heart,  be  acceptable  in 
thy  sight,  O  Lord,  my  strength,  and  my 
redeemer.  (Psalm  19.) 

As  I  contemplated  these  lines,  and 
thought  of  the  beauty  of  this  day  in  con- 
trast to  our  severe  winter,  I  thought  how 
much  it  is  like  life.  We  have  difficulties, 
hardships,  struggles.  We  have  the  storms 
and  the  clouds,  and  then  we  have  the 
warmth  of  the  sunshine  to  gladden  our 
hearts,  to  give  us  renewed  hope  and 
faith.  They  are  all  necessary  —  these 
changes.  It  is  all  in  keeping  with  the 
providence  of  the  Lord.  He  never  in- 
tended that  we  should  have  things  easy. 
He  intended  that  through  sacrifice  and 
struggle  we  should  learn  these  great 
lessons  of  life  and  be  able  to  adjust 
ourselves  to  them. 

I  remember  one  time  listening  to  Sis- 
ter Elsie  Talmage  Brandley  relate  an 
incident  that  happened  as  she  traveled 
about  for  the  Church.  She  was  a  mem- 
ber of  the  general  board  of  the  Mutual 
Improvement  Association,  and  at  one 
time  associate  editor  of  The  Improve- 
ment Era.  Sister  Brandley  had  a  fine 
mind  and  a  great  faith.  She  told  of  her 
experience  in  Canada,  how  she  and  her 
husband  living  on  a  ranch  had  had  sick- 
ness come  to  their  home;  they  were  too 
far  away  for  medical  help,  and  there 
was  no  way  to  summon  help.  She  had 
related  this  incident  to  a  friend  who  was 
not  in  sympathy  with  the  tenets  of  our 
faith  and  who  had  asked  Sister  Brandley 


•if  she  ever  had  any  pleasures  out  of  life. 
She  replied,  "Yes,  I  have  great  pleasures 
in  life."  And  then  she  related  this  inci- 
dent. She  said,  "You  know  in  our  Church 
our  men  have  a  special  blessing  known 
as  the  Holy  Priesthood.  By  right  of  that 
they  are  able  to  bless  their  children,  and 
in  the  authority  of  that  power,  it  may 
be  to  rebuke  disease;  and  the  Lord 
hears  those  prayers."  And  then  she  went 
on  to  tell  of  this  experience  on  the  ranch 
where  one  of  their  little  ones  had  been 
ill,  and  how  her  husband  had  blessed  it 
by  the  power  that  the  Lord  had  given 
him.  She  said,  "Those  are  our  pleas- 
ures; those  are  our  joys." 

And  so  it  is,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
in  our  lives.  Sometimes  the  shadows 
overwhelm  us,  but  behind  them  all 
comes  the  sun,  with  its  glory,  as  we  saw 
today,  and  it  radiates  into  our  souls  the 
reality  of  God,  the  consciousness  of  his 
great  blessings,  and  the  assurance  that 
he  is  our  Father,  and  that  we  are  his 
children. 

Job  the  prophet  taught  this  lesson 
forcibly.  Probably  no  man  suffered  more 
than  he.  All  of  his  friends  had  deserted 
him;  he  had  lost  his  crops;  he  had  lost 
his  flocks  and  his  herds;  and  even  his 
own  children  had  gone.  Then  when 
someone  said  to  him  that  there  was 
nothing  left  for  him  to  do  but  to  curse 
God  and  die,  there  came  to  him  a  con- 
sciousness of  the  reality  of  God.  And 
he  said, 

Oh  that  my  words  were  now  written!  oh 
that  they  were  printed  in  a  book! 

That  they  were  graven  with  an  iron  pen 
and  lead  in  the  rock  for  ever! 

For  I  know  that  my  redeemer  liveth. 

He  knew  notwithstanding  all  these 
things, 

and  that  he  shall  stand  at  the  latter  day 
upon  the  earth: 

And  though  after  my  skin  [that  is,  after' 
the  way  of  the  flesh;  after  all  of  these 
tribulations]  worms  destroy  this  body,  yet 
in  my  flesh  shall  I  see  God: 

Whom  I  shall  see  for  myself,  and  mine 
eyes  shall  behold,  and  not  another;  though 
my  reins  be  consumed  within  me.  (Job  19:- 
23-27.) 


70 

Saturday,  April  5 

Seeing  beyond  the  shadows — what  a 
blessed  faith  it  is,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters that  we  can  do  that,  that  we  can 
adjust  ourselves  to  the  problems  of  life 
as  they  come.  Our  people  have  been 
very  much  concerned,  especially  our 
agricultural  people  in  these  mountain 
areas,  during  the  last  few  weeks.  Our 
livestock  men  fear  that  they  can't 
get  their  flocks  on  the  lambing  grounds; 
feed  is  very  short.  It  is  a  disturbing 
time.  It  is  difficult.  We  have  had 
these  difficulties  before.  Our  people 
have  always  had  them.  But  in  these 
struggles,  in  these  economic  adjust- 
ments we  have  to  make  from  time  to 
time,  there  come  to  us  greater  blessings, 
just  as  they  come  spiritually,  and  greater 
powers  come  to  us.  The  Lord  seems  to 
have  understood  that  as  he  endowed  us 
and  placed  us  here  in  the  earth.  And  so 
there  is  a  great  ray  of  hope.  The  Lord 
declares  his  goodness.  Everything  about 
us  proclaims  his  blessing,  proclaims  the 
reality  of  him  in  whose  name  we  are 
met  here. 

We  heard  so  much  yesterday,  so  much 
to  inspire  us  about  the  growth  of  this 
Church,  its  great  power,  and  how  the 
stakes  in  California  are  responding  to 
this  great  trust  incident  to  the  erection 
of  the  temple.  These  things  perhaps  are 
regarded  by  those  not  of  our  faith  as  very 
material;  they  think  that  we  judge  our 
works  by  the  material  things.  That  is 
not  true.  They  are  the  symbols  of  a 
magnificent  faith  in  this  great  work.  I 
don't  know  whether  you  noted  it, 
but  for  the  last  three  or  four  con- 
ferences, we  have  been  told  of  the 
expenditures  for  the  administration  of 
this  Church  that  come  from  non-tithing 
funds.  I  don't  know  whether  you  know 
the  significance  of  that,  but  I  recall  as  a 
young  man,  when  this  Church  was  in 
debt.  It  had  lost  much  of  its  property  at 
•  one  time;  it  had  been  escheated  by  the 
government;  and  on  its  restoration  to  the 
Church,  about  1896  it  was,  the  Church 
was  heavily  in  debt.  And  then  when 
President  Snow  came  into  the  Presidency 
on  the  death  of  President  Woodruff, 
through  the  inspiration  and  the  revela- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

tions  that  had  come  to  him  in  the  St. 
George  Temple,  he  promised  the  people 
that  if  they  would  be  true  and  faithful 
to  their  trust,  the  Church  would  be 
relieved  of  bondage,  and  that  promise 
was  verily  fulfilled. 

When  President  Joseph  F.  Smith 
became  the  President  of  the  Church  he 
made  certain  sound  investments  for 
the  benefit  and  blessing  of  this  Church. 
And  I  recall  that  those  not  of  our  faith 
and  who  had  no  right  to  criticize,  went 
up  and  down  this  land,  in  print  and 
otherwise,  maligning  the  Presidency  of 
the  Church,  accusing  the  Church  of  a 
materialistic  attitude,  of  not  being  a 
spiritual  organization,  of  misleading  the 
membership  of  the  Church.  That  didn't 
make  any  difference.  The  leadership 
carried  on  just  the  same,  and  we  have 
seen  the  benefits  and  blessings  of  that 
great  leadership,  and  today  we  see  that 
leadership,  the  spirit  of  it,  the  inspira- 
tion of  it  manifest. 

And  when  I  heard,  I  think  the  first 
time  perhaps  four  conferences  ago,  when 
President  Clark  read  the  report,  was 
thrilled  when  I  heard  him  make  the 
statement,  "From  non-tithes  of  the 
Church,"  are  the  expense  of  administra- 
tion paid.  Think  of  the  wisdom,  the 
inspiration  of  your  leadership,  the 
leadership  of  this  Church.  And  so 
in  these  things  that  are  regarded 
as  material,  there  is  a  great  spirit- 
ual power.  There  is  evidence  of 
the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty.  There 
is  evidence  of  the  Lord  directing  his 
work,  giving  power  and  strength  to  the 
leadership  thereof,  and  that  is  the  way 
it  will  always  be,  because  this  is  God's 
work,  and  it  will  not  fail,  no  matter  how 
the  shadows  may  come,  how  the  diffi- 
culties may  come,  no  matter  what  sacri- 
fices, seeming  sacrifices;  in  the  end  they 
are  not  sacrifices;  they  are  blessings. 
They  are  the  accumulation  of  great  pow- 
ers that  come  to  the  members  of  this 
Church,  and  they  become  a  sustaining 
force. 

May  God  help  us  to  appreciate  these 
things  and  be  true  to  our  obligations. 
The  Lord  is  in  the  heavens.  Every- 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  WNS 


71 


thing  proclaims  his  goodness.  Every- 
thing about  us  proclaims  the  divinity  of 
this  great  work  in  which  you  and  I  are 
engaged,  and  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  the  prophetic  mission  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  whose  name  we  praise,  he  who 
communed  with  Jehovah,  and  talked 
with  God,  a  reality,  the  greatest  evidence 


of  our  day  of  the  divine  mission  of  Jesus 
Christ.  God  bless  you.  Amen. 


The  congregation  and  members  of 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  joined  in  singing 
"Now  Let  Us  Rejoice  In  the  Day  of 
Salvation." 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  WINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
stand  before  you  with  a  good  deal 
of  timidity  and  trepidation.  Al- 
though I  have  been  doing  this  for  a 
good  many  years  now,  I  never  get  quite 
used  to  the  feeling.  I  hope  that  you 
will  help  me  with  your  faith  and 
prayers,  that  there  may  be  in  what  I 
say  something  that  may  be  helpful  to 
some  of  us,  to  give  us  renewed  courage 
and  faith.  My  sole  purpose  is  to  be 
of  help. 

When  Dr.  Widtsoe  was  talking  the 
other  day  of  his  experiences  and  how 
he  was  called  in  as  an  expert  on  irriga- 
tion problems,  I  got  to  thinking  about 
the  similarity  there  is  between  that  and 
life.  I  once  read  from  a  Spanish  writer 
this  statement:  "There  are  more  un- 
cultivated souls  in  the  world  than 
lands." 

Now  the  purpose  of  irrigation,  of 
course,  is  to  bring  under  cultivation 
lands  that  otherwise  are  not  so  useful 
and  not  productive,  and  the  accomplish- 
ment of  it  represents  some  of  the  funda- 
mental principles  of  our  lives  and  our 
faith. 

To  begin  with,  the  waters  that  we 
bring  on  to  our  land,  when  they  are 
uncontrolled,  may  be  the  source  of 
tremendous  danger  and  damage  to  us. 
Sister  Ivins  and  I  stood  on  the  banks  of 
the  river  in  Elmira,  New  York,  and 
watched  houses  go  by  under  the  bridge, 
watched  the  water  come  into  the  city 
and  fill  all  the  basements  of  the  town, 
and  read  in  the  newspaper  of  people 
who  were  drowned  in  the  flood.  And 


why?  Because  the  waters  of  that  river 
were  beyond  control. 

Now,  when  we  can  bring  water  under 
control,  and  through  our  faith  and 
works  bring  it  onto  the  arid  lands,  those 
lands  become  productive.  But  to  do  so, 
there  must  be  a  fundamental  applica- 
tion of  the  principle  of  faith.  Without 
it  we  would  never  make  the  effort.  Then 
there  must  be  such  structures  erected  as 
will  keep  the  water  which  we  bring  onto 
the  lands  under  absolute  control; 
furthermore,  to  make  efficient  use  of 
it,  it  must  have  direction,  wise  and  ade- 
quate direction. 

When  we  can  apply  all  those  things 
to  it,  we  reap  a  harvest,  a  rich  harvest. 
But  if  at  any  time,  during  that  process, 
we  become  lax  and  lose  control,  the 
hope  of  a  season,  and  sometimes  of  the 
future,  may  vanish  in  an  hour. 

That  is  a  good  deal  like  life.  The 
purpose  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  is  to  redeem  and 
cultivate  the  souls  of  the  people.  The 
purpose,  even,  is  to  build  up  and 
strengthen  and  make  better  the  lives  of 
the  people  who  have  come  already  to 
recognize  the  power  of  God,  his  restored 
priesthood  in  the  earth,  and  become 
members  of  the  Church,  for  none  of  us 
is  perfect. 

The  development  of  those  souls  is 
the  greatest  responsibility  of  life.  There 
is,  of  course,  the  time  when  that  control 
must  be  exercised  by  others,  just  as  we 
exercise  control  over  the  life-giving  ele- 
ments we  lead  on  to  the  soil.  Custody 
of  a  soul  begins  when  a  man  is  born — 
a  puny,  powerless,  helpless  child.  There 


72 

Saturday,  April  5 

is,  however,  implanted  in  him  by  God, 
a  power  which  can  develop,  and  if 
controlled,  would  redound  to  the  bene- 
fit and  blessing  of  mankind.  It  is  the 
duty  of  the  parents  of  that  child  to  see 
that  its  early  years  are  properly  guided 
and  its  activities  properly  directed,  that 
the  selfish,  jealous,  evil  things  which 
carnal  man  is  subject  to,  may  be  taught 
out  of  the  nature  of  that  child,  that  it 
may  be  taught  the  virtues,  the  higher 
virtues  of  life,  so  that  in  its  formative 
period  it  may  be  safeguarded  from  the 
evils  that  surround  us  in  such  great 
number. 

Sometimes,  as  fathers  and  mothers, 
we  do  not  realize  that  responsibility. 
We  take  children  more  or  less  as  a 
matter  of  fact;  we  do  not  realize  that 
they  are  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God, 
and  that  in  their  care  and  custody,  we 
are  the  representatives  of  God,  our 
Heavenly  Father.  If  we  could  sense 
that  fully,  I  am  sure  that  we  would  be 
more  serious  in  the  care  and  direction 
which  we  give  to  the  life  of  our  chil- 
dren. 

Now  there  comes  a  time,  of  course, 
when  the  father  and  the  mother  may 
have  done  all  that  was  within  their 
power,  and  they  send  their  sons  and 
their  daughters  out  into  the  world  to 
struggle  with  its  changing  conditions. 
Then  these  young  people  have  this 
direction  within  their  own  power;  they 
have  to  direct  their  course;  they  have 
to  direct  their  efforts;  Father  and 
Mother  are  no  longer  in  control. 

Now  in  that  process  the  principal 
element  of  success,  it  seems  to  me,  is 
faith,  for  without  faith  in  God  we  are 
not  likely  to  seek  his  aid,  and  without 
his  aid  we  would  lack  inspiration,  and 
without  inspiration  we  may  be  subject 
to  the  baser  tendencies  of  the  body. 

This  writer  says,  "uncultivated  souls"; 
and  the  Prophet  said,  "The  spirit  and 
the  body  is  the  soul  of  man."  (D.  &  C. 
88:15.)  Consequently,  if  we  are  going 
to  cultivate  the  soul  well,  we  must  pay 
attention  to  the  spiritual  development, 
and  likewise  to  the  physical  develop- 
ment of  the  body.    Without  a  proper 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

relationship  of  the  two  we  may  not 
succeed. 

Now,  faith  in  God  then  becomes  the 
fundamental  principle  of  life.  The 
great  principle  of  the  gospel  is  love. 
But  how  can  you  love  God  without 
having  faith  in  his  power,  and  his  inter- 
est in  you,  and  his  ultimate  direction  of 
the  affairs  of  this  world  of  ours?  To 
love  him,  you  must  have  faith  in  him. 
With  that  faith  there  will  come  a  love 
of  God,  and  an  effort  to  do  his  will, 
to  keep  his  commandments,  to  develop 
ourselves,  that  we  may  be  ultimately 
valiant  and  useful  servants  unto  God  in 
developing  his  program  in  the  earth. 

Without  faith,  there  can  be  no  love 
between  a  man  and  a  wife.  Without 
faith  there  can  be  no  love  between  a 
son  and  a  father.  Faith  must  go  in 
both  directions,  it  seems  to  me.  But 
if  that  faith  can  be  developed,  we  will 
strive  to  meet  the  full  requirements  of 
our  lives;  to  develop  ourselves  to  our 
utmost  and  ultimate  capacity.  It  re- 
quires a  struggle,  constantly,  to  drive 
jealousy  out  of  our  hearts;  it  requires  a 
constant  struggle  to  prevent  hatred  from 
coming  into  our  feelings  and  our  atti- 
tudes; it  requires  a  constant  struggle 
to  develop  the  higher  facilities  of  the 
body  and  the  mind,  but  it  must  come 
from  faith — faith  in  God,  faith  in  each 
other  as  well.  But  in  the  beginning  is 
faith  in  God,  because  from  that  develops 
love,  the  fundamental  principle  of  the 
gospel,  and  from  love  develops  the 
fidelity  that  should  exist  in  all  family 
relationships. 

We  have  been  told  what  a  wonderful 
thing  it  is  that  we  can  enjoy  our  com- 
panions here,  with  the  expectation  that 
if  our  lives  are  proper,  we  will  have 
that  association  throughout  eternity, 
culminating  in  the  grandest  blessing  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  But  if  we 
do  not  have  the  faith  that  prompts  us 
to  love  and  respect  each  other,  to  honor 
the  pledges  that  we  make  in  marriage, 
we  will  fall  far  short  of  the  realization 
of  that  great  and  wonderful  privilege. 

I  have  come  to  believe,  in  this  great 
struggle,  that  the  greatest  victory  a 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  WINS 


73 


man  can  make  is  the  victory  of  self- 
control.  It  did  Alexander  the  Great 
no  good  to  conquer  the  world  and  die, 
a  drunken,  debauched  person,  in  early 
manhood.  Because  he  had  no  self- 
control,  he  lost  all  the  advantage  that 
he  had  gained  by  his  unholy  conquests. 

So  I  repeat,  it  matters  not  what  your 
conquests  are  here  in  other  directions, 
if  you  fail  to  gain  absolute  self-control, 
you  have  failed  in  the  greatest  victory 
of  life.  It  is  the  greatest  battle,  too, 
because  man,  abandoned  by  the  spirit 
of  God,  we  have  been  told  already,  is 
carnal,  and  that  carnal  man  is  an  enemy 
of  God.  Without  that  struggle,  with- 
out the  Spirit  of  God,  we  are  going  to 
surrender  ourselves  to  our  baser  and 
more  ignoble  tendencies.  We  must  not 
do  it,  brothers  and  sisters.  Man  or 
woman,  we  must  have  faith  in  God  in 
order  to  serve  him  properly,  and  make 
this  tremendous  struggle  that  is  neces- 
sary to  overcome  these  baser  faculties. 

We  must  never  so  mistreat  our  bodies 
that  we  surrender  the  controls  that 
we  have  gained  over  these  propensities 
to  the  unsettling  influences  of  narcotics 
or  things  of  that  sort.  We  must  live, 
brothers  and  sisters,  through  the  faith 
we  develop  in  God,  true  to  all  the  com- 
mandments that  have  been  given  us, 
and  to  all  of  the  pledges  that  we  have 
made. 

Now,  when  we  lead  the  water  out 
over  the  soil,  we  may  have  planted  a 
crop  which  is  the  result  of  months  and 
months  of  labor,  and  then,  because  in 
an  unguarded  moment,  we  relax  our 
control  and  our  watchfulness  over  it, 
the  whole  work  may  be  carried  away. 

And  I  have  known  men,  and  women, 
too,  who  apparently  have  made  this 
successful  struggle  until  well  along  in 
years,  and  then  either  feeling  secure, 
or  indifferent,  I  do  not  know  which, 
they  relax  these  controls;  they  succumb 
to  temptation;  and  in  an  unguarded 
moment,  they  destroy  their  hopes  for 
the  future. 

I  have  seen  men  disorganize  mar- 
riages that  should  have  carried  over 
into  eternity  because  in  an  unguarded 


moment  they  failed  to  exercise  their 
faith  in  God  and  the  controls  that  come 
from  it. 

I  believe,  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
greatest  need  we  have  today  is  the  de- 
velopment of  faith  in  God,  and  the  con- 
trols over  ourselves  which  come  from 
that  faith;  and  if  we  can  do  so,  our 
future  is  secure.  If  we  can  do  so  as  in- 
dividual families,  the  security  of  our 
children  should  be  secure.  If  we  can  im- 
press those  basic  principles  upon  them 
so  that  they  will  adhere  to  them  for  the 
rest  of  their  lives,  the  generation  that 
they  bring  into  the  world  should  be  se- 
cure; the  whole  future,  brothers  and  sis- 
ters, depends  upon  our  faith  in  God,  and 
the  exercise  of  these  controls  that  come 
through  that  faith,  and  the  inspiration 
of  God  which  we  get  through  it. 

Now,  may  we  realize  these  things, 
brothers  and  sisters,  and  may  we  live 
true  to  them,  for  the  pledges  we  make  in 
the  waters  of  baptism  and  in  the  temples 
of  God  are  serious.  There  are  wonderful 
promises  held  out  to  us.  The  breaking 
of  these  pledges  is  a  serious  thing,  and 
has  most,  what  shall  I  say,  most  un- 
wanted results,  terrible,  destructive  re- 
sults in  our  lives.  Have  you  ever  seen 
persons  who  forget  these  things,  lose 
their  standing  in  their  communities,  sink 
to  oblivion  and  die,  unmourned?  I  be- 
lieve you  have.  Why?  Simply  because 
we  allow  ourselves  to  forget  God,  and 
in  the  forgetting  of  him,  we  lose  faith  in 
him  because  faith  is  maintained  by  the 
exercise  of  our  faculties  in  the  service 
of  God.  And  when  we  stop  exercising 
those  faculties,  that  faith  may  decrease, 
and  with  its  decrease,  our  controls  may 
likewise  decrease;  we  may  wake  up  one 
sad  day  to  find  that  the  blessings  which 
should  have  been  ours  are  impossible 
to  us. 

God  grant  that  we  may  understand 
our  relationship  to  him,  that  we  may 
learn  to  love  him,  and  have  the  faith 
which  will  guide  us,  and  help  us  to 
direct  our  efforts  to  the  greatest  develop- 
ment of  ourselves  and  those  dependent 
upon  us,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


74 

Saturday,  April  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Second  Day 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  come  to 
this  responsibility  with  a  prayer  in 
my  heart  that  the  good  spirit  which 
has  been  present  in  this  session  and  in 
the  other  sessions  may  continue  with 
us. 

Last  night,  as  I  sat  in  the  audience  at 
the  missionary  meeting,  it  occurred  to 
me  that  the  Church  as  a  whole,  and  the 
members  individually,  have  always  been 
true  to  their  missionary  responsibility. 
It  also  occurred  to  me  that  those  who 
participated  in  it,  faithfully,  have  been 
abundantly  blessed.  God  has  prospered 
his  work  in  the  earth.  And  I  rejoice 
with  you  in  its  success. 

A  few  years  ago  I  talked  to  a  business 
executive  who  has  since  reached  the 
pinnacle  in  his  business  organization. 
He  told  me  of  making  an  application 
for  work  years  ago  in  this  organization. 
After  a  conversation  with  one  of  the 
officials,  he  was  told  that,  inasmuch  as 
he  did  not  have  a  college  education, 
the  place  was  not  available  to  him.  But 
the  young  man  explained  that  he  had 
been  on  a  mission  for  the  Latter-day 
Saint  Church,  and  the  official  turned 
to  him  and  said,  "Well,  I  regard  a  mis- 
sion for  the  Mormon  Church  equivalent 
to  a  college  education."  That  man  has 
risen  to  prominence,  not  only  in  his 
business  organization,  but  also  in  the 
world.  Surely,  those  who  engage  in  this 
missionary  work  receive  blessings  which 
qualify  them  for  their  daily  activities. 

Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney,  on  one  oc- 
casion, told  about  his  ambition  to  be- 
come an  actor.  But  his  poverty  stood 
in  the  way  of  its  realization.  Finally, 
his  mother,  sympathetic  with  his  dreams 
and  desire,  told  him  to  sell  some  of  her 
city  lots  here  in  Salt  Lake  City  and  use 
the  proceeds  for  his  education.  But  no 
sale  materialized.  Then  something  hap- 
pened which  revolutionized  the  plan 
and  the  entire  life  of  Elder  Whitney. 
He  became  a  missionary.  His  former 
dreams  vanished.  Speaking  of  that  first 


mission  which  he  fulfilled  with  such 
credit,  he  later  wrote: 

I  know  now  that  I  had  a  testimony,  a 
deep  conviction  of  the  truth,  but  it  was 
latent,  undeveloped,  like  a  gold  mine  in  the 
depths  of  the  earth.  Something  had  to  occur 
to  bring  it  out.  That  something  was  my 
mission.  It  bored  a  tunnel,  sank  a  shaft, 
and  brought  the  precious  ore  to  the  surface. 

Thousands  among  our  brethren  and 
sisters  could  give  a  similar  testimony. 
Orson  F.  Whitney  did  not  become  a 
professional  actor.  His  love  for  the 
footlights  disappeared.  Upon  his  re- 
turn from  the  missionary  field,  he  be- 
came a  defender  of  the  faith,  an  ex- 
pounder of  the  scriptures.  He  became 
a  bishop,  an  Apostle,  a  recognized  orator 
and  poet,  a  writer  of  history,  a  law- 
maker, and  a  mission  president.  All  of 
his  natural  endowments  came  into  full 
play.  His  field  broadened,  and  his  gifts 
and  powers  were  exercised  to  build  faith 
in  the  hearts  of  his  fellow  men,  and  to 
proclaim  the  gospel  of  salvation  at  home 
and  abroad.  Like  Abraham  of  old, 
Orson  F.  Whitney  was  chosen  before 
he  was  born.  You  and  I  are  the  bene- 
ficiaries of  his  stupendous  work,  his 
boundless  achievements,  and  his  richly 
endowed  life. 

Most  of  us,  I  dare  say,  have  read 
Elder  Widtsoe's  little  book,  In  The 
Gospel  Net.  It  is  the  story  of  a  great 
conversion,  for  in  it,  Brother  Widtsoe 
tells  how  his  mother  became  a  member 
of  the  Church.  I  have  often  thought 
of  that  humble  shoemaker  whom  he 
describes  and  who  was  presenting  the 
gospel  to  the  people  who  came  to  his 
shop;  his  soul  was  full  of  love  for  his 
fellow  men.  And  as  a  result,  the  entire 
Church  has  been  blessed.  Who  will  esti- 
mate the  far-reaching  results  of  his  ef- 
forts, and  who  will  estimate  the  extent 
of  the  contribution  made  by  Elder  John 
A.  Widtsoe,  whose  books  and  pamphlets, 
Church  works,  and  expositions  on  agri- 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


75 


culture,  which  are  numerous  and  schol- 
arly, have  been  and  are  being  read 
extensively,  at  home  and  abroad  I  His 
powerful  messages  have  broken  down 
many  prejudices  and  opened  the  door  to 
many  investigators.  These  humble  be- 
ginnings have  a  way  of  growing  and 
expanding  into  mighty  movements  and 
great  accomplishments. 

I  have  before  me  the  report  rendered 
to  the  Church  by  President  Brigham 
Young  after  the  completion  of  his  first 
mission  over  in  England  in  1840.  Said 
President  Young: 

We  landed  in  the  spring  of  1840,  as 
strangers  in  a  strange  land,  and  penniless, 
but  through  the  mercy  of  God  we  have 
gained  many  friends,  established  churches 
in  almost  every  noted  town  and  city  in 
the  kingdom  of  Great  Britain,  baptized 
between  seven  and  eight  thousand  souls, 
printed  five  thousand  Books  of  Mormon, 
three  thousand  hymnbooks,  twenty-five  hun- 
dred volumes  of  the  Millennial  Star,  and  six 
thousand  tracts,  and  emigrated  to  Zion  one 
thousand  souls,  established  a  permanent 
shipping  agency,  which  will  be  a  great 
blessing  to  the  Saints  and  have  left  sown 
in  the  hearts  of  many  thousands  the  seed 
of  eternal  truth,  which  will  bring  forth 
fruit  to  the  honor  and  glory  of  God,  and 
yet  we  have  lacked  nothing  to  eat,  drink, 
or  wear;  in  all  these  things  acknowledge  the 
hands  of  God.  (Millennial  Star  26:7.) 

What  I  have  read  covers  one  year  of 
missionary  activity  by  a  handful  of  mis- 
sionaries. I  marvel  at  the  achievement. 
I  glory  in  their  success.  Without  God's 
help  they  could  not  have  done  it. 

May  I  say  that  the  Church,  as  we 
have  it  today,  is  a  product  of  the  mis- 
sionary system,  begun  six  months  after 
its  organization.  The  Book  of  Mormon, 
the  Articles  of  Faith,  the  revelations  to 
the  Prophet  and  the  fundamental, 
philosophical  teachings  have  survived  a 
century  of  relentless  opposition,  criti- 
cism, and  investigation.  No  changes, 
no  apologies,  no  retractions  have  been 
necessary.  The  Church  is  like  a  rock 
in  the  storm-tossed  seas,  like  a  beaten 
anvil,  immovable.  Its  foundation  is 
firm  and  deep.  It  cannot  be  uprooted. 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God. 
We  are  here,  you  and  I,  because  of  his 


prophetic  vision.  Some  of  his  con- 
temporaries marked  the  great  west  as  a 
land  of  desolation,  forbidding  and  un- 
inhabitable. Daniel  Webster  saw  only 
a  vast,  worthless  area,  with  its  savages 
and  wild  beasts,  deserts  of  shifting 
sands,  cacti  and  prairie  dogs,  and  a 
three-thousand-mile  coast  line  without 
a  harbor  in  it. 

What  did  Joseph  Smith  see?  He  saw 
homes  for  a  mighty  people,  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  where  the  Saints  of  God 
would  make  settlements  and  build 
cities.  The  wisdom  of  God,  brethren  and 
sisters,  is  greater  than  the  wisdom  of 
man. 

May  we  appreciate  it,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Will  the  presidencies  of  the  temples 
please  meet  in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple, 
fourth  floor,  tomorrow  afternoon  at 
4:30  o'clock.  President  Young  of  the 
Temple  will  please  see  that  the  west 
door  is  open. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Chorus  will 
now  sing,  "Abide  With  Me,"  conducted 
by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall. 

We  wish  to  commend  the  congrega- 
tion today  and  in  previous  sessions,  for 
their  orderly  and  reverential  attitude 
during  our  hours  of  worship. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Francis  W.  Brown,  formerly 
president  of  the  Central  States  Mission. 
After  the  prayer  this  conference  will 
stand  adjourned  until  seven  o'clock  this 
evening,  when,  in  accordance  with  the 
practice  of  the  Church,  the  general 
meeting  of  the  Priesthood  of  the  Church 
will  be  held.  Only  those  holding  the 
priesthood  are  invited  to  be  present. 
Persons  not  holding  the  priesthood  will 
kindly  refrain  from  attempting  to  enter 
the  building.  That  session  will  not  be 
broadcast.  Overflow  meetings,  however, 
will  be  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and 
Barratt  Hall;  at  both  places,  we  are  in- 
formed, there  will  be  television. 

The  session  at  ten  o'clock  Sunday 
morning  will  be  broadcast  over  Station 
KSL,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL 


76 

Saturday,  April  5 

over  the  stations  named  in  the  first 
session  of  the  conference.  That  ses- 
sion will  also  be  televised  over  KSL 
television  station,  channel  five. 

The  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast,  on 
which  Elder  Marion  G.  Romney,  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  will  be  the 
speaker,  will  begin  at  8:30  in  the  morn- 
ing. Those  desiring  to  attend  this  broad- 
cast must  be  in  their  seats  not  later  than 
8:20  a.m.  The  Tabernacle  Choir  broad- 
cast will  be  from  9:00  to  9:30  o'clock,  to- 
morrow morning.  That,  too,  may  be  seen 
and  heard  over  television,  channel  five. 
Those  desiring  to  attend  that  broadcast 
must  be  in  their  seats  by  8:50  a.m.,  ten 
minutes  to  nine.  It  is  requested  that  the 
audience,  during  the  broadcast  refrain 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

from  making  any  disturbing  noise  of 
any  kind.  The  regular  session  of  the 
conference  will  begin  at  10:00  a.m. 

The  singing  for  today  has  been  by 
members  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  under 
the  direction  of  Brother  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall, with  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the 
organ. 

At  the  conclusion  of  this  meeting,  the 
general  sessions  of  the  conference  will 
be  adjourned  until  ten  o'clock  tomorrow 
morning. 


Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
chorus,  "Abide  With  Me." 

Elder  Francis  W.  Brown,  formerly 
President  of  the  Central  States  Mission, 
offered  the  closing  prayer. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of 
the  Church  convened  in  the  Tabernacle 
at  7:00  p.m.,  Saturday,  April  6,  with 
President  David  O.  McKay  presiding 
and  conducting. 

The  great  Tabernacle  was  crowded 
with  men  holding  the  priesthood,  also 
the  Assembly  Hall  to  the  south  of  the 
Tabernacle,  and  Barratt  Hall  (60  North 
Main),  in  which  latter  places  those 
present  listened  to  the  services  and 
witnessed  them  by  means  of  television. 
In  addition,  thousands  of  men  assem- 
bled on  the  Tabernacle  grounds  and 
listened  to  the  proceedings  by  means 
of  amplifiers. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

If  we  had  been  guided  by  the  as- 
semblies in  the  Tabernacle,  Assembly 
Hall,  Barratt  Hall,  and  the  crowd  on 
the  grounds,  we  might  have  opened  this 
meeting  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  ago. 
Every  building  is  packed  to  capacity, 
and  brethren  who  are  unable  to  get  into 
any  seat  whatever,  have  taken  news- 
papers and  are  sitting  on  the  grounds. 
We  believe  we  will  let  the  loudspeaker 
go  out  there  so  that  those  who  are  at- 
tempting to  attend  this  meeting  may 
share  in  the  services  at  least. 


What  a  mighty  force!  The  strength 
of  Zion! 

The  singing  during  this  session  will 
be  furnished  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
Men's  Chorus,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall  as  Director,  and  Elder  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

When  we  sing,  "I  will  go  Where  You 
Want  Me  to  Go,"  it  is  suggested  that 
the  congregation  sing  the  first  stanza, 
the  Male  Chorus  will  sing  the  second, 
and  the  congregation  the  third. 

We  shall  open  these  services  by  the 
congregation  singing,  "Do  What  Is 
Right." 

Elder  Emile  C.  Dunn,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  Tongan  Mission,  will  offer 
the  opening  prayer. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Do 
What  Is  Right." 

Elder  Emile  C.  Dunn,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  Tongan  Mission,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus 
sang  "The  Palms." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Truly,  the  song  of  the  righteous  is  a 
prayer  unto  the  Lord.  That  was  in- 
spiring. 


ELDER  WALTER  STOVER 


77 


May  we  at  this  time  correct,  or  give 
information  which  will  be  of  interest 
to  all  listening  in,  and  to  others  whom 
you  may  contact.  "President  McKay: 
Regarding  the  morning's  schedule  (that 
is,  tomorrow  morning),  with  the  two 
broadcasts  coming  together,  8:30  to  9:00 
and  9:00  to  9:30,  there  will  be  no  op- 
portunity to  open  the  doors  or  let  any- 
one in  for  one  hour.  So  those  who  de- 
sire to  attend  either  broadcast,  should 


be  in  the  building  before  8:20.  Brother 
Richard  L.  Evans." 

So  will  you  please  take  note  of  that 
and  by  so  doing  avoid  disappointment. 

Our  first  speaker  tonight  will  be  Presi- 
dent Walter  Stover  (come  forward, 
Brother  Stover)  formerly  president  of 
the  East  German  Mission.  We  believe 
President  Stover  has  a  message  that  will 
be  of  great  interest  to  all  who  are  priv- 
ileged to  hear  him  tonight.  President 
Stover. 


ELDER  WALTER  STOVER 

Formerly  President  of  the  East  German  Mission 


M 


Ty  beloved  brethren,  I  kindly  ask 
for  your  faith  and  prayers  in  my 
behalf.  I  assure  you  that  I  am 
frightened.  I  never  have  spoken  to  such 
a  great  audience,  and  I  was  asked  only 
a  little  while  ago  to  speak  to  you. 

For  the  past  five  years  I  have  pre- 
sided over  the  East  German  Mission. 
The  East  German  Mission  includes  that 
part  of  Germany  which  lies  behind  the 
"Iron  Curtain."  Part  of  that  mission  is 
in  the  British  Zone,  but  nine-tenths  of 
the  mission  lies  behind  the  "Iron  Cur- 
tain." We  have  there  more  than  8,000 
of  our  faithful  members  and  more  than 
fifty-five  branches. 

Life  behind  the  "Iron  Curtain"  is  dif- 
ferent from  what  it  is  here  in  our  goodly 
land.  They  do  not  have  private  enter- 
prise like  we  have  here.  Everything  is 
nationalized.  Everything  is  taken  over 
by  the  State;  barber  shops,  even  doctors, 
industries  and  also  farms,  are  taken 
over  by  the  State  and  managed  by  the 
State.  And  people  work  for  the  State 
and  do  not  have  freedom  such  as  we 
have  here. 

I  am  one  of  the  very  few  American 
citizens  who  have  had  the  privilege  of 
traveling  in  the  Russian  Zone.  I  have 
been  there  more  than  fifteen  times,  and 
have  visited  practically  every  branch  and 
district  of  our  Church  there.  I  am 
happy  to  report  that  our  faithful  Saints 
are  privileged  to  hold  their  meetings. 
Of  course,  they  have  to  have  permission 
from  the  State  each  time  they  hold 


their  meetings,  and  if  they  want  to 
have  a  cottage  meeting  they  have  to 
have  permission.  No  more  than  four 
people  are  privileged  to  gather  together 
at  one  time  without  having  permission 
from  the  State.  But  as  a  whole,  we  are 
very  grateful  that  we  have  our  freedom 
there. 

Communism  is  something  different 
from  democracy.  Those  die-hard  com- 
munists do  not  believe  in  God,  they  are 
absolutely  atheists.  They  call  us  stupid 
and  ignorant.  They  cannot  understand 
that  in  this  enlightened  age  there  are 
people  in  the  world  who  believe 
in  God  and  in  Jesus  Christ.  Their 
Savior  is  Josef  Stalin.  They  look  to 
Moscow  for  their  salvation. 

I  hesitate  to  speak  as  I  do,  but  I  sup- 
pose you  ought  to  know  what  is  going 
on  behind  the  "Iron  Curtain."  People 
do  not  have  their  freedom  like  we  have. 
They  are  not  privileged  to  strike,  they 
just  have  to  obey  and  work.  They  cannot 
choose,  to  any  great  extent,  their  em- 
ployment. They  are  told  where  to 
work,  and  for  what  wages  to  work. 
Their  wages  are  very  small  compared 
with  ours,  and  if  they  worked  all  the 
days  of  their  lives,  they  could  not  ac- 
cumulate anything. 

So,  my  brethren,  you  see  that  we  live 
in  a  very  wonderful  land,  the  land  of 
promise.  As  an  immigrant  and  a  convert 
to  this  Church,  I  am  grateful,  very 
grateful,  that  I  am  privileged  to  live 
here  in  this  goodly  land,  in  the  valleys 


78 

Saturday,  April  5 

of  the  mountains.  How  different  condi- 
tions are  over  there  as  compared  with 
what  we  have  here.  We  have  our 
wonderful  homes,  we  have  our  wonder- 
ful furniture,  washing  machines,  re- 
frigerators, automobiles,  good  employ- 
ment. They  do  not  have  those  things 
over  there.  I  do  not  like  to  speak  too 
severely  but  I  suppose  they  are  slaves. 
I  believe  that  the  Children  of  Israel 
who  were  in  bondage  in  Egypt  felt  more 
secure,  and  happier,  than  those  freedom- 
loving  people  who  are  behind  the  "Iron 
Curtain." 

Germany,  especially  East  Germany, 
has  suffered  a  lot.  Many  provinces  have 
been  taken  away:  East  Prussia,  West 
Prussia,  Pomerania,  and  other  provinces, 
and  millions  of  people  had  to  flee  before 
the  invading  armies.  These  refugees 
are  now  in  parts  of  Germany,  where 
they  live  two  or  three  families  in  one 
small  apartment.  They  have  to  get 
along  with  one  another,  and  they,  of 
course,  would  be  very  happy  if  they 
could  come  to  this  goodly  land,  but 
they  cannot.  They  have  to  stay  there, 
and  live  there,  and  do  what  they  are 
told.  They  are  not  privileged  to  speak 
their  minds,  my  brethren.  They  are 
watched.  They  are  not  even  privileged 
to  speak  freely  in  their  own  families  for 
fear  their  children  will  hear  what 
they  say,  and  school  teachers  are  trained 
to  find  out  from  the  children  in  the 
school  what  attitude  their  family  has. 
And  how  often  a  loved  one  from  the 
family  is  taken  away,  and  without  trial, 
placed  in  a  concentration  camp.  Many 
of  them  die  there,  and  never  return  to 
their  loved  ones.  And  very,  very  often 
the  loved  ones  are  not  even  notified. 

I  am  so  happy  that  our  Church  is  not 
persecuted  to  any  great  extent.  Of 
course,  they  do  not  like  any  religion, 
they  hate  all  religions,  and  "Jehovah's 
Witnesses"  and  other  religious  people 
are  put  in  jail.  A  few  of  our  people 
have  been  put  in  jail,  but  not  many. 

I  want  to  tell  you  of  one  experience 
a  branch  president  had.  I  stayed  in 
his  home  one  night.  I  went  there 
by  permission  of  the  Russian  Military 
Government  to  travel  in  the  Zone,  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

I  stayed  in  his  home  one  night. 
It  was  still  dark  when  I  went  away  in 
the  early  morning;  the  following  day 
he  was  arrested  for  "harboring  an 
American  spy." 

Now  my  brethren,  this  poor  man  was 
in  jail  for  over  eleven  weeks  on  a  phony 
charge,  and  I  wrote  a  letter  to  the 
authorities  and  told  them  that  I  gladly 
would  come  and  take  his  place,  to  let 
this  good  man  go.  His  family  had  to 
suffer  a  great  deal  during  that  time, 
and  his  wife,  who  had  two  little  chil- 
dren, went  to  the  authorities,  and  said, 
"You  have  taken  my  husband,  what 
shall  I  do?  I  need  milk  for  the  babies." 
They  promptly  told  her  that  they  would 
take  care  of  the  babies,  and  raise  them, 
and  make  good  communists  of  them, 
and  she  could  work  and  make  a  living 
herself,  work  for  the  State,  have  equal 
rights  with  the  men.  Their  equal  rights, 
my  brethren,  mean  that  the  woman  can 
work  just  as  hard  as  the  man,  take  her 
place  in  the  mines,  the  ore  mines  and 
the  coal  mines.  That  is  the  equal  right 
women  have. 

Oh,  how  wonderful  it  feels  to  be  an 
American  citizen,  to  live  here  in  this 
goodly  land,  where  we  can  speak  our 
minds,  where  we  can  worship  Almighty 
God  according  to  the  dictates  of  our 
own  conscience.  We  do  not  need  per- 
mission to  gather  in  this  great  Taber- 
nacle. 

The  German  people  are  very  wonder- 
ful people.  Out  of  that  nation  great 
men  have  come:  Karl  G.  Maeser,  was 
a  wonderful  man.  I  visited  his  home 
town,  Meisen,  Germany,  near  the  great 
city  of  Dresden,  and  there  the  Germans 
honor  and  revere  this  great  man.  Meisen 
is  the  city  where  the  famous  Meisen 
porcelain  is  made  and  this  world-re- 
nowned factory  has  been,  taken  over 
now  by  the  Russians.  This  wonderful 
porcelain  is  made  to  send  to  Russia, 
and  all  the  factories  work  for  the  build- 
ing up  of  the  great  war  machine.  I  am 
sorry  to  say,  the  people  do  not  have 
so  much  to  eat  as  they  would  like  to 
have.  They  feed  them  but  very  little, 
but  from  early  in  the  morning  until 
late  at  night,  my  brethren,  they  feed 


ELDER  WALTER  STOVER 


79 


them  propaganda.  They  tell  them  of 
the  American  capitalist  and  that  the 
only  way  of  life  is  the  true  way  of  com- 
munism. And  they  sugarcoat  every- 
thing so  beautifully  that  some  of  them 
begin  to  believe,  not  the  older  ones, 
but  the  younger  ones. 

When  Christmas  time  comes,  they 
are  not  allowed  to  have  a  Christmas  tree 
or  a  Christmas  program  in  their  schools. 
They  tell  them  that  their  Savior  is 
Joseph  Stalin,  they  should  look  to  him 
for  their  salvation. 

My  brethren,  the  time  goes  fast.  I 
bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  am 
so  grateful  that  I  am  privileged  to 
live  here.  Many,  many  years  ago  two 
humble  missionaries  came  to  the  town 
where  I  lived,  and  in  very  broken  lan- 
guage brought  to  me  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  When  I  accepted  it  people  told 
me  that  I  was  stupid,  a  religious  fanatic 
When  I  came  to  America,  I  was  even 
more  crazy,  they  told  me.  But  I  want 
to  tell  you,  good  brethren,  it  feels  won- 
derful to  be  a  Latter-day  Saint,  it  feels 
wonderful  to  have  a  testimony,  it  feels 
wonderful  to  enjoy  the  spirit  of  the 
Lord.  And  I  am  so  grateful.  I  know 
that  God  lives,  that  he  hears  and  an- 
swers prayers.  When  our  thoughts  go 
heavenward,  they  are  near  the  throne 
of  God,  and;  we  thank  him  for  the 
blessings  which  he  has  bestowed  upon 
us,  and  we  ask  him  for  forgiveness  of 
our  failings  and  shortcomings,  and  we 
meditate  and  converse  with  him.  How 
beautiful  it  is,  my  brethren.  We  are 
fed  the  bread  of  life  and  we  walk  with 
him  and  talk  with  him,  and  we  feel  his 
nearness,  something  wonderful. 

My  brethren,  the  gospel  is  the  gospel 
of  life  and  of  salvation,  and  if  we  are 
true  and  faithful  we  will  have  peace  of 
mind,  joy  and  happiness  in  our  hearts, 
and  we  will  truly  love  our  neighbor. 

I  could  talk  to  you  at  great  length 
about  the  East  German  Mission,  about 
the  life  there,  but  I  have  said  enough. 
Be  grateful  that  you  live  in  this  goodly 
land.  It  is  a  choice  land,  choice  above 
all  other  lands  in  the  world. 

I  bear  you  this  witness,  because  I 
know,  and  I  am  very  grateful.  When  I 


was  there  and  saw  the  sufferings  of  the 
people  I  said  to  myself,  "whenever  you 
return,  you  will  never  complain,  not 
even  about  the  taxes." 

My  brethren,  when  you  work  from 
early  in  the  morning  until  late  at  night 
for  the  State,  and  you  are  fed  propa- 
ganda, you  can  understand  how  good 
it  feels  even  to  pay  the  taxes  here  and 
be  a  free  man.  Of  course,  I  have  com- 
plained a  little  since  I  returned;  that 
is  the  weakness  in  me. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  good  breth- 
ren, and  may  he  bless  our  nation,  and 
those  who  administer  the  affairs  of  our 
great  nation,  that  we  may  live  accord- 
ing to  the  plan  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
and  keep  his  commandments,  that  we 
may  preserve  freedom  and  liberty. 

I  have  been  in  Washington  and 
Mount  Vernon  many  times,  I  like  to 
go  there  and  see  the  house  where  the 
father  of  our  great  nation,  and  his  won- 
derful wife  Martha  lived.  I  have  read 
of  Lincoln,  the  great  man,  and  I  love 
these  great  people.  They  gave  to  us  a 
wonderful  country,  and  we  have  the 
blessings  of  it.  We  want  to  preserve  it 
and  live  so  our  Heavenly  Father  can 
bless  us. 

I  bear  this  testimony  humbly  and  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Brethren,  some  of  our  city  officials 
are  uneasy  about  us  tonight.  They  real- 
ize how  these  aisles  are  filled,  and  all 
the  steps  occupied.  The  chief  of  the 
Fire  Department  would  appreciate  it 
very  much,  if  we  will  at  least  make  an 
effort,  to  conform  to  the  city  ordinance. 
Now,  let  us  do  it.  If  you  brethren  who 
are  sitting  would  crowd  up  a  little  more, 
even  if  you  are  uncomfortable,  and  let 
the  brethren  who  are  in  the  aisles  each 
take  one  seat  along  on  both  sides,  I 
believe  we  can  conform  to  this  request. 
Thank  you. 

Our  next  speaker  will  be  President  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  of  the  First  Presidency 
of  the  Church. 


80 

Saturday,  April  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


Second  Day 


My  brethren,  this  is  a  humbling  ex- 
perience. I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless 
me  for  the  few  minutes  that  I 
stand  before  you,  that  I  may  be  able 
to  say  something  that  will  be  helpful 
and  encouraging. 

Thirty  years  ago,  from  this  pulpit,  in 
a  public  meeting,  I  voiced  a  warning 
against  what  we  then  knew  as  Bol- 
shevism and  Socialism,  and  what  we 
now  know  as  Communism.  I  thought 
I  saw  it  coming,  and  it  came.  No  one 
can  listen  to  what  we  have  heard  to- 
night, without  joining  in  the  feeling  that 
President  Stover  expressed,  thank  God 
for  this  country  and  for  our  citizenship. 
And  there  is  nothing  that  we  should 
not  do  to  preserve  this  country,  and 
its  liberties,  and  its  free  institutions. 

Brother  Stover  is  not  telling  us  fairy 
tales.  He  knows  what  happens  over 
there,  and  he  has  told  it  in  language  that 
we  can  all  understand.  A  system  destruc- 
tive of  the  great  principle  which  lies 
behind  our  great  plan,  that  utterly  wipes 
it  out  and  makes  it  as  if  it  did  not  ex- 
ist, the  great  principle  of  free  agency. 

Brethren,  I  do  not  suppose  that  any  of 
you  have  had  communistic  leanings.  I 
suppose  that  all  of  you  love  your  coun- 
try, love  the  Constitution,  love  the  free 
institutions  under  which  we  live,  love 
our  freedoms.  But  if  there  be  any,  may  I 
ask  you,  prayerfully  and  humbly,  think 
this  thing  over,  because  if  it  comes  here 
it  will  probably  come  in  its  full  vigor 
and  there  will  be  a  lot  of  vacant  places 
among  those  who  guide  and  direct,  not 
only  this  government,  but  also  this 
Church  of  ours. 

Brethren,  I  urge  you,  think  this  thing 
over  in  the  light  of  the  facts.  And  I  know 
that  Brother  Stover  has  not  told  us  to- 
night, a  tithe  of  what  he  could  tell. 

That  brings  me  rather  naturally  to  my 
favorite  theme  before  you  brethren.  "If 
you  are  not  one,  you  are  not  mine." 
Now,  that  should  mean,  and  must  mean, 
if  we  are  to  preserve  our  freedoms  and 
our  liberties,  that  we  shall  be  one. 


Last  night  I  voiced  the  thought  that 
I  feel  is  sound.  I  can  think  of  this 
Church  as  having  three  great  functions. 
The  first  function  is  to  maintain  and 
build  up  the  body  of  the  Church  as  we 
exist,  those  who  already  belong  to  it. 
The  second  function  is  to  warn  the  world 
and  to  teach  the  truth  to  those  who  wish 
it.  And  the  third  function  is  to  do  the 
work  for  the  dead. 

We  cannot  successfully  carry  on  the 
latter  two  without  having  a  strong  cen- 
tral Church,  and  to  build  a  strong 
central  Church  requires  unity,  real  unity, 
not  verbal,  make-believe  unity. 

We  need  unity  in  administration, 
from  the  deacons'  quorum,  up.  We  do 
not  want  deacons'  quorums  going  off  on 
their  own  and  handling  the  meetings 
as  they  wish;  the  members  going  when 
they  wish,  and  coming  when  they  wish, 
and  talking  about  what  they  wish.  That 
is  not  the  way  to  build  a  deacons'  quo- 
rum. 

You  bishops  of  the  wards,  you  do  not 
want  your  auxiliary  organizations  carry- 
ing on,  each  one  by  itself,  without  any 
regulation  or  any  control.  You  presidents 
of  stakes  do  not  want  your  wards  carry- 
ing on  in  that  way.  And  I  can  assure 
you  that  the  presiding  authorities  of  the 
Church  cannot  do  their  work  unless 
they  have  unity  among  the  stakes. 

Do  not,  brethren,  get  the  idea  in  your 
minds,  that  you  have  a  very  unique 
situation  in  your  own  place.  We  hear 
that  frequently.  But  when  we  analyze 
it  down,  we  do  not  find  the  uniqueness 
that  sometimes  you  feel  you  have. 

Be  a  unit.  Follow  your  file  leaders. 
Do  what  you  are  asked  to  do,  and  do  it 
willingly  and  do  it  with  a  determination 
to  make  it  a  success. 

You  need  this  unity,  brethren,  if  we 
are  going  to  build  this  Church  and  if 
we  are  going  to  fulfil  the  mission  which 
the  Lord  has  given  to  us. 

And  you  need  unity  in  doctrine.  I 
incorporate  by  reference  these  two  fine 
sermons  we  have  heard  today,  one  from 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  ]R. 


81 


Brother  Stapley  and  one  from  Brother 
Bowen.  I  endorse  all  that  each  of  them 
said.  The  principles  of  this  gospel  are 
clear  and  reasonably  few,  that  we  need 
to  act  upon.  And  there  is  only  one  man 
on  earth  who  has  the  final  word  as  to 
what  is  the  true  doctrine  of  this  Church, 
and  that  is  President  David  O.  McKay, 
today.  When  there  comes  a  time  to 
change  the  doctrines  of  the  Church,  he 
will  let  you  know. 

Read  your  books.  There  is  a  startling 
parallel  between  the  course  that  is  com- 
ing in  to  us  today  and  the  course  that 
was  in  the  early  Church,  so  startling 
that  one  becomes  fearful.  We  have  these 
little  groups  going  off  on  their  own, 
doing  their  own  interpreting  of  the  scrip- 
tures, more  or  less  laying  down  their 
own  principles.  They  are  small  now,  of 
no  particular  consequence,  but  that  is 
the  way  it  began  in  the  early  Christian 
Church,  and  these  little  snowballs  grew 
and  grew  and  grew  until  they  became 
great. 

"Scholasticism"  took  its  root  among 
those  early  peoples.  There  were  a  num- 
ber of  "schoolmen,"  they  were  called, 
who  undertook  to  define  the  doctrines 
of  the  early  Church,  then  developing 
into  the  great  Catholic  Church — Bede, 
Alcuin,  Damiani,  Scotus,  and  others, 
Thomas  Aquinas — they  began  the  de- 
velopment, these  individuals,  of  great 
heresies  that  took  hold  of  the  imagina- 
tions of  the  people  and  finally  were 
adopted  by  the  Church. 

Now,  of  course,  the  Church  in  those 
days  was  not  organized  as  we  are.  The 
bishops  were  independent,  one  from  the 
other.  They  had  no  real,  there  was  no 
real  central  control.  The  pope  exercised 
some,  but  it  was  very  ineffective  and  in- 
efficient. Some  popes  ruled  some  of 
these  heresies  wrong  as  heresies,  then 
later  other  popes  came  along  and  ruled 
them  as  truths.  We  must  be  united  in 
doctrine,  we  must  follow  the  scriptures. 
Do  not  try  to  wander  off  too  much, 
brethren,  I  beg  of  you,  into  the  mysteries. 
Do  not  write  in  to  the  First  Presidency 
and  ask  them  to  solve  every  mystery 
that  you  can  think  of,  either. 

Then  there  must  be  a  unity  of  faith. 


When  I  say  a  unity  of  faith,  I  am  dis- 
tinguishing between  what  we  ordinarily 
term  as  unity  of  faith,  which  is  a  unity 
of  doctrine,  and  a  unity  of  the  exercise 
of  faith.  What  I  mean  is  illustrated  by 
what  happened  at  Jericho,  when  they 
marched  around  the  city  and  the  walls 
fell.  What  I  am  thinking  about  is  a 
statement  in  the  scriptures,  that  if  you 
have  faith  as  a  grain  of  mustard  seed 
you  can  say  to  yonder  mountain,  re- 
move ye  hence,  and  it  will  be  removed. 

And  that  great  crusade  under  Peter  the 
Hermit,  made  up  in  good  part,  of  the 
ragtail  and  bobtail  of  the  whole  western 
Christian  Church,  who  were  promised 
an  indulgence  if  they  went  on  that  cru- 
sade and  the  forgiveness  of  all  the  sins 
they  had  committed  in  the  past,  and  all 
that  they  might  commit  in  the  future — I 
am  not  talking  extravagantly,  I  am  tell- 
ing you  what  that  indulgence  really 
was— when  the  crusaders  got  to  Jerusalem 
the  clergy  that  were  with  them  tried  to 
imitate  the  great  miracle  at  Jericho  and 
so  they  marched  round  Jerusalem,  but 
the  walls  did  not  fall.  Finally  they  took 
the  place  by  storm,  and  one  account  says 
that  the  narrow  streets  leading  up  to  the 
temple  mount  flowed  in  the  blood  of 
victims  up  to  the  horses  knees.  These 
crusaders,  apparently  dedicated  to  the 
redemption  of  the  Holy  Land  from  the 
pagans,  took  babes  and  dashed  their 
brains  out  against  the  wall,  took  them  by 
the  legs  and  threw  them  over  the  wall, 
shut  them  up  in  houses  and  went  in  and 
slaughtered  them,  piled  up  the  rem- 
nants in  great  piles. 

I  assume  if  he  told  all  he  knew, 
Brother  Stover  might  almost  equal  that. 

Now,  brethren,  we  must  have  unity  in 
faith.  Let  us  practise  the  unity,  breth- 
ren, before  it  is  too  late.  We  well  may 
be  the  leaven  that  shall  leaven  the 
lump.  We  well  may  be  the  few  that  will 
save  this  country,  even  as  the  Lord  told 
Abraham  he  would  save  Sodom  and 
Gomorrah  if  he  could  find  ten  righteous 
persons.  I  appeal  to  you,  brethren,  in 
all  earnestness,  in  all  kindliness,  that 
we  become  united,  united  in  following 
the  directions  of  those  who  preside  over 
you  in  the  matter  of  administration; 


82 

Saturday,  April  S 

united  in  the  matter  of  doctrines,  that 
we  do  not  permit  ourselves  to  be  led 
astray,  that  we  study  the  scriptures  and 
that  we  hold  fast  to  the  few,  simple  and 
elemental  principles  of  the  gospel,  which 
are  all-sufficient  to  gain  us  our  salva- 
tion. 

I  urge  unity  in  the  matter  of  faith,  let 
us  have  faith,  let  us  exercise  it,  let  us 
fit  ourselves  that  we  can  exercise  it,  if, 
when,  and  as  the  time  comes. 

May  the  Lord  bless  all  of  us,  give  us 
his  inspiration.  I  bear  my  testimony 
that  Jesus  was  the  Christ,  that  Joseph 
was  a  Prophet,  that  those  who  have 
followed  him  since  then,  including 
President  McKay,  are  his  prophets. 
Let  us  all  give  them  our  support, 
let  us  give  President  McKay  our  support, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

our  loyalty,  and  our  devotion,  in  order 
that  he  may  carry  forward  the  great 
responsibility  which  rests  upon  him,  and 
I  ask  this  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

There  is  a  suggestion  that  at  this 
moment  this  tremendous  body  of  priest- 
hood be  permitted  to  hear  the  mighty 
voice  and  testimony  of  the  organ.  We 
will  ask  Brother  Schreiner  to  favor  us 
with  a  selection  that  will  answer  that 
request. 


Organ  selection,  "O  My  Father,"  by 
Alexander  Schreiner. 


PRESIDENT  STEI 

First  Counselor  in 

1am  sure  all  were  deeply  impressed  by 
Brother  Stover's  report  and  by  Presi- 
dent Clark's  comment  thereon. 
If  I  were  not  afraid  of  embarrassing 
Brother  Stover,  I  would  like  to  tell  you 
something  of  what  he  did,  this  generous- 
hearted  man,  over  among  those  poor  and 
discouraged  people,  to  bring  them  some- 
thing more  of  hope  for  the  future.  I 
happened  to  be  there  during  his  ad- 
ministration. I  became  very  much  aware 
of  the  sinister  influences  which  he  has 
described.  I  remember  riding  through 
Berlin  from  the  Western  Zone  into  the 
Communistic  Eastern  Zone,  and  it  was 
just  as  if  you  had  passed  over  into  a 
forbidden  territory.  The  ominous  feel- 
ing, the  depression,  the  looks  on  the 
faces  of  the  people,  the  ragged  and  hope- 
less condition,  was  a  sight  most  for- 
bidding to  behold.  Brother  Stover 
stepped  into  that  situation,  and  out  of 
the  generosity  of  his  big  heart,  he 
reached  in  his  pocket  and  helped  many 
a  poor  person;  and  in  addition  thereto, 
he  provided  them  with  facilities  through 
which  they  were  able  to  gather,  to  re- 
sume their  activities  in  the  Church,  and 
he  held  out  to  them  such  a  prospect  for 


EN  L  RICHARDS 

xe  First  Presidency 

the  future  that  I  am  sure  many  were 
taken  out  of  despondency  and  elevated 
to  hope  and  encouragement.  And  I  take 
the  liberty  of  paying  tribute  to  him  to- 
night for  that  which  he  did  for  those 
distressed  people. 

It  would  be  well  if  we  could  all  be 
aroused  by  circumstances  brought  to  our 
attention  into  a  state  of  alertness  to  the 
dangers  and  the  situations  confronting 
us.  I  believe,  my  brethren,  that  it  is  well 
for  every  one  of  us  to  consider  that  he 
has  a  definite  personal  responsibility  to 
do  his  full  duty  in  the  Church,  in  the 
government  to  which  we  belong,  in  or- 
der to  forestall  some  of  these  calamities 
that  look  to  be  in  the  offing. 

Now  I  see  certain  prospects  ahead 
that  may  not  be  too  fortuitous.  I  wish 
I  could  say  a  word  that  would  save  a 
man  from  bankruptcy.  Years  ago  I  used 
to  practice  law.  I  have  taken  men 
through  bankruptcy.  I  have  seen  some 
of  the  tragedy  oi  it.  I  have  had  doctors 
tell  me  that  men  have  died  for  causes 
no  other  than  financial  worries  occa- 
sioned by  reverses;  and  to  a  redblooded 
man,  who  has  pride  in  his  good  name, 
few  things  are  more  disastrous  to  him 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


83 


than  to  fall  into  a  condition  where  he 
cannot  pay  his  creditors  and  keep  his 
name  good. 

We  do  not  know  just  what  the  future 
will  hold  for  us.  We  learn  that  there  is 
great  income  for  the  people,  the  largest, 
I  suppose,  that  it  has  ever  been  in  his- 
tory, figured  at  least  in  terms  of  our  in- 
flated currency;  and  we  learn  that  debts 
have  assumed  gigantic  proportions.  I 
have  said  in  your  presence  before  that 
there  is  only  one  thing  that  I  know  of 
for  which  this  inflated  dollar  will  buy 
100%  worth  of  its  par  value,  and  that 
is  in  paying  debts.  There  is  no  discount 
when  it  comes  to  paying  debts  with  this 
inflated  dollar,  and  I  am  persuaded,  my 
brethren,  that  all  will  do  well,  if  any 
is  in  a  position  where  his  debts  may 
come  to  embarrass  him,  to  see  that  they 
are  reduced  and  liquidated,  so  that  he 
may  be  saved  the  hard  circumstances 
that  may  come  to  him  when  it  will  be 
more  difficult  to  pay. 

We  might  have  a  deflated  currency 
sometime.  Well,  if  we  have  a  deflated 
currency,  and  the  dollar  reverts  to  100% 
purchasing  power,  you  will  pay  that 
good  solid  dollar  to  discharge  debts  in- 
curred under  inflated  dollars,  and  it  may 
be  a  hard  thing  to  do.  You  farmers  will 
realize  it  may  take  two  bushels  of  grain, 
instead  of  one,  to  liquidate  the  obli- 
gations. Now,  I  have  never  seen  a  man 
go  broke  who  was  not  in  debt.  Have 
you?  So  I  think  that  the  caution  is  to  be 
careful  of  our  indebtedness. 

Really,  the  great  portion  of  our  in- 
debtedness that  is  hazardous  to  us  arises 
from  overextension.  Way  back  in  the 
days  of  the  depression  when  many  banks 
were  closed,  I  was  sent  on  a  financial 
mission.  I  visited  the  banks  of  southern 
Utah,  most  of  them,  and  some  of  the 
banks  of  Idaho  and  I  talked  with  the 
cashiers  and  other  operating  executives. 
Some  of  them  were  good  enough  to 
bring  out  their  portfolios,  and  in  nearly 
all  instances  that  I  was  able  to  observe, 
I  discovered  that  embarrassment  came  to 
men  because  of  overextension  of  credit. 
They  thought  that  they  could  make 
some  more  money  by  incurring  more 
debt,  and  the  bottom  fell  out  before  they 


realized  on  the  good  prospects  that  they 
thought  they  had,  and*  many  were 
embarrassed, — hundreds  were  embar- 
rassed, and  some  men  who  had  been  in 
good  standing  before  were  financially 
wiped  out.  And  the  books  of  some  of 
these  banks  today  bear  record  of  these 
old  obligations. 

I  believe  we  will  do  well  to  bear  these 
items  in  mind,  and  within  our  own 
power  do  all  that  we  can  to  get  our- 
selves into  as  safe  a  position  as  it  is 
possible  for  us  to  do.  I  recognize  the  fact 
that  sometimes  it  is  deemed  necessary 
and  desirable  to  undertake  some  obliga- 
tions in  order  to  get  a  home  for  our 
families,  perhaps  in  order  to  get  some 
kind  of  a  business  in  which,  we  can  work, 
but  there  is  a  difference  between  get- 
ting that  which  is  absolutely  necessary 
for  the  support  of  ourselves  and  our 
families,  and  extending  and  extending 
trying  in  an  acquisitive  spirit  to  get  so 
much  that  we  hazard  our  financial  se- 
curity. 

The  good  counsel  that  has  come  from 
the  Church  all  these  years  is  pertinent 
today,  and  I  believe  that  those  who 
study  the  situations  most  carefully 
would  sanction  that  kind  of  counsel. 
You  older  men  have  been  through  some 
of  the  experiences  of  the  past.  You  know 
that  calamity  can  come  almost  over- 
night. It  has  done  so  in  the  past,  and 
so  a  measure  of  preparedness  is  wise 
counsel  to  you. 

I  trust  too  that  those  of  you  who  are 
perplexed  to  know  what  to  do  will  seek 
good  solid  counsel.  I  never  feel  it  em- 
barrassing to  ask  counsel  from  men  who 
have  had  experience  and  men  who  are 
supposed  to  know.  It  is  far  less  embar- 
rassing to  expose  your  hazards  to  them 
than  it  is  to  endure  some  of  the  disas- 
trous results  which  may  come  to  you. 
It  is  a  good  thing  to  seek  counsel.  You 
Bishops,  when  you  are  asked  for  coun- 
sel, I  think  that  you  may  be  endowed 
with  the  spirit  of  wisdom,  if  you  live 
for  it,  and  you  can  give  counsel  superior 
to  your  own  native  acumen  and  wisdom 
to  these  people  who  ask  you;  and  it 
would  be  well  for  our  brethren  to  seek 


84 

Saturday,  April  5 

counsel  in  the  control  and  management 
of  their  affairs. 

In  relation  to  these  financial  matters 
I  just  want  to  say  a  further  word  on 
tithing.  Our  brethren  who  visit  the  stakes 
frequently  report  as  to  the  tithing  con- 
ditions which  they  find  among  the  offi- 
cers of  the  stake.  I  think,  my  brethren 
of  the  bishoprics  and  of  the  presiden- 
cies of  stakes,  and  the  high  councils,  and 
the  presidencies  of  quorums,  that  the 
best  way  in  the  world  to  teach  tithing 
is  to  practice  it.  I  have  said  in  your 
presence  before  that  tithing  does  not 
mean  one-fiftieth,  nor  one-thirtieth,  nor 
one-twentieth.  Tithing  means  one-tenth. 
I  have  sometimes  wondered  what  a  part 
tithing  means.  I  have  never  seen  any 
definition  of  it,  but  I  know  what  a 
tithing  means.  So  far  as  I  know,  there 
is  only  one  tithing,  and  that  is  one- 
tenth.  So  I  believe  that  you  brethren 
in  authority  could  bring  a  lot  of  happi- 
ness to  men  and  women  throughout  the 
Church  if  you  yourselves  would  fully 
comply  with  this  law  that  the  Lord 
has  given  to  us. 

I  lay  stress  upon  not  merely  the  fin- 
ancial aspects  of  it,  although  they  are 
essential,  but  to  the  growth  of  spiritu- 
ality that  it  brings  to  the  man  who  con- 
forms to  this  great  law.  I  believe  it  is 
one  of  the  greatest  laws  that  the  Lord 
ever  gave  to  us,  because  he  well  knew 
that  something  more  than  lip  service 
was  necessary  in  order  to  develop  a  great 
love  and  regard  for  him  and  his  work. 
He  knew  that  the  man  who  would  reach 
down  into  his  pocket  and  get  that  which 
represented  his  muscle,  his  energy,  his 
brain  power,  that  that  man,  when  he 
gave  the  proceeds  of  his  work,  would 
give  of  himself;  and  he  knew  that  when 
that  man  gave  of  himself  to  the  work 
that  he  would  engender  within  himself 
a  love  and  a  sacred  regard  for  God  and 
his  mighty  cause.  I  know  of  no  one 
thing  out  of  which  more  spiritual 
growth  arises  than  out  of  the  faithful 
payment  of  tithes.  So  I  ask  you  to  con- 
sider what  you  can  do  for  yourself,  what 
you  can  do  for  others  by  complying 
fully  with  this  sacred  law  that  the  Lord 
has  given  to  us. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

I  often  look  back  to  President  Grant 
who  was  so  generous  in  his  giving. 
Many  of  you  have  heard  him  tell  how 
he  was  always  pleased  to  head  a  sub- 
scription list  to  build  a  home  for  a  wid- 
ow, to  look  out  for  orphans  and  for 
others,  and  to  share  that  which  the 
Lord  brought  him  with  others.  I  think 
that  he  set  before  us  an  example  that 
we  should  never  forget,  and  those  who 
are  blessed  with  great  means  should  be 
generous  with  their  means. 

Right  now  we  are  having  something 
of  a  dearth  of  missionaries,  and  we  have 
recently  had  requests  from  some  of  the 
missions,  particularly  foreign  missions, 
asking  if  we  could  not  in  some  way  get 
a  little  money  to  assist  in  the  support  of 
seme  of  their  local  missionaries.  The 
very  mission  which  Brother  Stover  rep- 
resented has  just  recently  sent  word  that 
there  are  a  number  of  young  Germans 
over  ihere  who  could  do  some  work  as 
local  missionaries  from  the  Church  if 
they  had  a  little  assistance.  I  do  not 
know  that  we  should  make  a  public 
appeal  here  for  funds,  but  if  there  are 
those  blessed  with  means  who  would 
like  to  make  some  contribution  to  our 
great  missionary  cause,  they  can  do  so 
by  arranging  with  our  office  so  that 
some  means  can  go  to  the  assistance  of 
some  of  those  who  can  help  in  this  work. 
And  I  am  sure  that  they  would  be  blessed 
and  feel  happy  within  themselves  if 
they  were  able  to  undertake  some  such 
support  for  these  missionaries. 

Now,  my  brethren,  President  Clark 
says  it  is  a  subduing  and  humbling  ex- 
perience to  stand  in  the  presence  of  this 
magnificent  congregation  of  the  priest- 
hood. There  is  a  strength  represented 
here  tonight  which,  if  fully  employed, 
would  have  within  itself  the  power  to 
advance  this  great  cause  with  which  we 
have  the  honor  to  be  identified  beyond 
even  the  finite  concept  of  those  who 
wish  it  well.  If  the  whole  priesthood 
throughout  the  Church  would  live  up 
to  the  obligations  and  opportunities 
coming  to  them  to  magnify  this  glorious 
calling,  we  would  see  advancement  that 
would  bring  us  gratification  indeed. 

I  pray  that  every  man  who  bears  this 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


85 


holy  priesthood  will  prize  it,  and  ac- 
count it  as  the  chief  blessing  of  his  life, 
and  use  it  for  the  blessing  of  his  family 
and  his  fellows.  Thank  the  Lord  for 
this  holy  power.  I  know  that  it  is  gen- 
uine. I  know  that  it  is  not  a  mere  con- 
coction of  men,  as  Brother  Bowen  spoke 
of  today.  I  know  that  it  was  divinely 
given,  and  I  pray  to  the  Lord  that  I 
for  one  may  be  worthy  of  this  high 


endowment  that  the  Lord  in  his  mercy 
has  brought  to  me  and  to  you. 

May  the  Lord's  blessings  abide  with 
you,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  chorus 
and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn, 
"I'll  Go  Where  You  Want  Me  To  Go." 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


Is  nearly  as  can  be  estimated  or 
j\  counted,  there  are  in  the  Tabernacle 
Xi  tonight  9,486  members  of  the  Priest- 
hood, on  the  grounds,  3,848,  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall,  2,285,  in  the  Barratt  Hall, 
1,150,  making  a  total  in  attendance  at 
this  Priesthood  Meeting  on  this  April 
night,  of  16,769. 

To  stand  in  your  midst,  to  partake  of 
what  I  feel  is  the  spirit  of  unity,  stirs 
one's  soul  with  emotion,  and  16,769  men 
have  said  tonight,  "I  will  go  where  you 
want  me  to  go,  dear  Lord,  over  moun- 
tain or  plain  or  sea.  I  will  say  what 
you  want  me  to  say,  dear  Lord,  I  will  be 
what  you  want  me  to  be."  Another  line, 
impressibly  sung  by  this  Chorus,  is  this: 
"There  may  be  somewhere  in  the  paths 
of  sin,  some  wanderer  whom  I  should 
seek." 

A  few  years  ago  there  appeared  in  one 
of  our  magazines,  the  story  of  a  little 
lad  that  wandered  from  his  mother's 
lap  in  the  Badlands  of  the  Dakotas  and 
was  lost.  As  night  came  on  the  mother 
was  distracted  and  the  neighbors 
alarmed.  The  next  morning,  on  the 
public  square  of  the  town  near  there, 
the  sheriff  met  a  group  of  farmers, 
teachers,  office  men,  citizens  of  all  ranks. 
He  organized  them  for  a  systematic 
search.  Before  they  started  out  he  said, 
"Little  Ronald,"  (I  have  forgotten  his 
name,  it  is  years  since  I  have  thought  of 
it)  "is  somewhere  out  in  those  Badlands. 
We  must  organize  and  search  every 
bush,  every  crevasse,  every  water  hole. 
We  must  not  come  back  without  that 
little  boy.  Pray  God  that  we  are  not 
yet  too  late."  They  started  out  that 
Thursday  morning,  and  at  about  three 


o'clock  in  the  afternoon  a  mighty  shout 
went  up.  They  had  found  the  boy. 

Brethren,  a  few  years  ago  you  re- 
ceived a  letter,  you  bishops,  stating  that 
a  committee  had  been  appointed  by  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  to  look  after 
some  of  our  girls  who  had  wandered 
into  the  "Badlands"  of  the  city.  They 
did  not  intend  to  get  caught  in  the 
meshes  of  sin,  but  they  had  wandered 
from  home,  and  the  protecting  influence 
of  home  surroundings.  You  were  asked 
if  you  would  not  kindly  send  the  names 
and  the  addresses  of  those  girls  who 
came  away  from  your  town,  to  this  com- 
mittee, just  so  that  members  of  this 
committee  could  see  that  they  became 
associated  with  some  ward,  with  some 
young  people  here  of  good  reputation, 
and  in  some  cases,  in  all  cases  if  pos- 
sible, could  find  suitable  employment. 

Later,  you  were  asked  from  this  pul- 
pit if  you  would  not  please  give  closer 
attention  to  that  phase  of  salvation  of 
our  youth.  Only  a  few,  comparatively 
speaking,  have  responded  to  that  call. 
Well,  if  they  were  lost,  and  faced  phys- 
ical death,  you  would  not  hesitate,  the 
whole  town  would  not  hesitate  to  go 
out  and  rescue  the  lost  girl  or  the  lost 
boy.  I  want  to  tell  you,  from  direct 
reports  from  our  police  officers  who  co- 
operate, in  several  instances  some  of 
these  fine  girls  have  suffered  things 
worse  than  death. 

Now  we  ask  you  tonight,  once  again, 
please  to  send  the  names  of  those  girls 
who  legitimately,  who  unknowing  what 
awaits  them,  some  of  them,  leave  their 
home  and  come  to  Salt  Lake  or  Ogden 
or  Provo,  or  some  center,  seeking  em- 


86 

Saturday,  April  5 

ployment,  seeking  to  better  themselves. 
Please  cooperate  with  this  committee, 
or  enable  this  committee  to  cooperate 
with  you,  so  that  these  choice  young 
people  may  not  be  ensnared  by  vicious 
men  who  lie  in  wait,  not  only  to  de- 
ceive, but  to  ruin. 

Now,  be  careful,  if  the  parents  are 
sending  them  in,  that  you  do  not  offend 
those  parents,  that  is  not  necessary.  This 
is  merely  a  means  of  cooperating  with 
parents  in  helping  young  people  to 
start  out  from  home  to  better  their  con- 
ditions. Brother  Spencer  W.  Kimball 
and  Brother  Mark  E.  Petersen  constitute 
that  committee,  and  you  may  correspond 
with  them  at  any  time. 

Now  this,  of  course,  should  be  the  last 
time  that  we  should  make  an  earnest 
appeal  for  your  cooperation. 

There  is  another  matter  to  which  I 
wish  to  refer.  It  is  not  very  savory, 
but  it  is  a  condition  that  is  giving  us 
great  concern,  and  that  is  the  increas- 
ing number  of  divorces  among  Latter- 
day  Saints,  whereas  here  in  the  United 
States  it  is  just  a  common  thing.  But 
brethren,  we  know  what  marriage  is, 
what  it  should  be,  how  sacred  the  mar- 
riage bond  is;  we  know  what  it  means 
to  live  a  chaste  life  by  men,  as  well  as 
by  women.  Chastity  is  a  standard  of  the 
Church;  and  it  worries  us  deeply  to  see 
the  large  accumulation  of  applications 
for  cancellations  of  the  sealing  ordi- 
nance. Indeed,  they  have  become  so 
numerous  that  we  have  had  to  appeal 
for  help.  As  you  know,  there  is  but  one 
who  can  cancel  that,  and  if  all  his  time 
were  taken,  that  is,  if  he  had  to  scruti- 
nize every  application  as  it  should  be, 
all  his  time  would  be  taken  for  that  one 
responsibility. 

I  wish  here  to  acknowledge  in  your 
presence  the  able  assistance  of  Elder 
Albert  E.  Bowen  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  He  has  been  called  because 
we  believe  that  every  case  deserves  very 
careful  and  prayerful  consideration. 
Brother  Bowen  is  a  man,  as  you  know, 
of  clear  mind,  sound  judgment;  he  is 
an  experienced  jurist,  he  has  had  years 
of  experience  in  dealing  with  cases  such 
as  are  coming  before  us,  and  best  of  all, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

he  is  a  true,  conscientious  servant  of  the 
Lord.  With  his  able  assistance,  careful 
attention  is  being  given  to  each  case, 
but  he  has  been  shocked,  as  I  have  been, 
with  what  some  of  these  applications 
disclose. 

I  am  going  to  venture  to  enter  into 
home  life.  I  would  rather  enter  into  it 
as  it  should  be,  rather  than  what  it 
sometimes  is.  But  we  find  that  the  fol- 
lowing conditions  seem  to  be  contribu-- 
tive  to  the  separation  of  husband  and 
wife,  and  the  breaking  up  of  the  home: 
Unfaithfulness  on  the  part  of  either  or 
both,  (do  you  know  what  that  means, 
those  of  you  who  have  been  through 
the  temple?)  —  drunkenness,  physical 
violence;  in  some  cases  imprisonment 
has  brought  disgrace  to  the  family;  the 
union  of  an  innocent  girl  to  a  repro- 
bate; some  cases  disclosed  sordid,  li- 
centious, brutal  actions  of  covetous  men. 
I  know  you  think  those  are  harsh  words, 
but  you  can  read  in  some  of  these  appli- 
cations reports  of  treatment  that  has 
wrung  women's  hearts  with  anguish. 

I  know  that  the  woman  is  to  blame 
in  some  cases,  and  particularly  young 
women  who  married  young  boys  in  a 
hurry  when  the  first  World  War  broke 
out.  —  I  know  that,  but  we  are  speaking 
to  men  tonight,  and  let  us,  as  men,  take 
the  blame. 

May  I  now,  suggest  that  we  unite  for 
just  a  few  minutes  as  bishops,  presidents 
of  stakes,  as  fathers,  and  as  young  men 
in  prospective  marriage,  to  consider 
some  things  that  will  avoid  the  breaking 
up  of  the  family,  that  will  avoid  this 
breaking  of  women's  hearts,  this  turn- 
ing out  of  children  from  what  should 
be  loving  homes,  or  throwing  them  en- 
tirely upon  the  responsibility  of  moth- 
ers. Let  us  instruct  young  people  who 
come  to  us,  first,  young  men  throughout 
the  Church,  to  know  that  a  woman 
should  be  queen  of  her  own  body.  The 
marriage  covenant  does  not  give  the 
man  the  right  to  enslave  her,  or  to  abuse 
her,  or  to  use  her  merely  for  the  gratifi- 
cation of  his  passion.  Your  marriage 
ceremony  does  not  give  you  that  right. 

Second,  let  them  remember  that 
gentleness  and  consideration  after  the 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


87 


ceremony  is  just  as  appropriate  and 
necessary  and  beautiful  as  gentleness 
and  consideration  before  the  wedding. 

Third,  let  us  realize  that  manhood  is 
not  undermined  by  the  practicing  of 
continence,  notwithstanding  what  some 
psychiatrists  claim.  Chastity  is  the 
crown  of  beautiful  womanhood,  and 
self-control  is  the  source  of  true  man- 
hood, if  you  will  know  it,  not  indul- 
gence. Sexual  indulgence  whets  the 
passion,  and  creates  morbid  desire. 

Let  us  teach  our  young  men  to  enter 
into  matrimony  with  the  idea  that  each 
will  be  just  as  courteous,  and  considerate 
of  a  wife  after  the  ceremony  as  during 
courtship. 

And  we  have  the  ideal  in  this  Church, 
I  hope,  today  as  ever,  that  a  young  man 
keep  himself  clean  and  pure  during  his 
courtship  days,  so  that  he  can  kneel  at 
the  altar  and  give  just  the  same  purity 
of  life  to  that  sweet  girl  as  he  exacts 
from  her.  I  submit  to  you  seventeen 
thousand  men,  that  that  is  a  glorious 
ideal.  I  know  the  world  thinks  we  can 
not  live  it,  but  you  and  I  know  that  we 
can  and  do  so  live. 

Fourth,  minimize  the  faults,  com- 
mend virtues.  After  the  first  thrill  of 
the  honeymoon  is  worn  off,  couples 
begin  to  see  frailties,  idiosyncrasies 
which  they  had  not  noticed  before.  Re- 
sponsibilities of  motherhood  come  to 
the  woman.  Difficulties  in  paying  debts 
come.  And  so  we  become  prone  to  find 
fault.  Let  us  learn  to  control  ourselves 
in  that  respect. 

I  do  not  know  who  wrote  this,  but  it 
is  good  advice:  "In  the  first  solitary 
hour  after  the  ceremony,  take  the  bride- 
groom and  demand  a  solemn  vow  of  him 
(this  is  to  the  girl)  and  give  a  vow  in 
return,  promise  each  other  sacredly 
never,  not  even  in  jest,  to  wrangle  with 
each  other,  never  to  bandy  words,  or 
indulge  in  the  least  ill-humor.  Never — 
I  say,  never  1  Wrangling  in  jest,  putting 
on  an  air  of  ill-humor,  merely  to  tease, 
becomes  earnest  by  practice.  Mark  that! 
Next,  promise  each  other,  sincerely  and 
solemnly,  never  to  keep  a  secret  from 
each  other,  under  whatever  pretext,  and 
whatever  excuse  it  might  be.  You  must 


continually,  and  every  moment,  see 
clearly  into  each  other's  bosom.  Even 
when  one  of  you  has  committed  a  fault, 
wait  not  an  instant,  but  confess  it. 
And  as  you  keep  nothing  from  each 
other,  so,  on  the  contrary,  preserve  the 
privacies  of  your  house,  marriage  state, 
and  heart,  from  father,  mother,  brother, 
sister,  aunt,  and  from  all  the  world. 
You  two,  with  God's  help,  build  your 
own  quiet  world.  Every  third  or  fourth 
one  you  draw  into  it  with  you  will  form 
a  party,  and  stand  between  you  two. 
That  should  never  be.  Promise  this  to 
each  other.  Remember  the  vow  at  each 
temptation.  You  will  find  your  account 
in  it.  Your  souls  will  grow,  as  it  were, 
to  each  other,  and  at  last  will  become 
as  one.  Ah,  if  many  a  pair  had,  on  their 
marriage-day,  known  the  secret,  how 
many  a  marriage  were  happier  than, 
alas,  they  are!" 

I  regard  it  as  an  incontrovertible  fact 
that  in  no  marriage  circle  can  true 
peace,  love,  purity,  chastity,  and  happi- 
ness be  found,  in  which  is  not  present 
the  spirit  of  Christ,  and  the  daily,  hour- 
ly striving  after  loving  obedience  to  his 
divine  commands,  and  especially,  the 
nightly  prayer  expressing  gratitude  for 
blessings  received. 

God  help  us  to  build  homes  in  which 
the  spirit  of  heaven  on  earth  may  be 
experienced.  You  and  I  know  that  that 
is  possible,  it  is  not  a  dream,  it  is  not 
a  theory.  We  may  have  that  sweet  com- 
panionship between  husband  and  wife 
which  grows  dearer  and  dearer  as  the 
troubles  of  life  come  on.  We  can  have 
homes  in  which  children  will  never 
hear  father  and  mother  wrangle  or 
quarrel.  God  help  us  as  men  of  the 
Priesthood,  to  build  such  homes,  and 
to  teach  our  young  men  and  young 
women  who  are  anticipating  home  life, 
to  cherish  such  an  ideal,  I  humbly  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus 
will  now  sing,  "Thou  Art  Repose,"  after 
which  Elder  Joel  Richards,  formerly 
President  of  the  Northwestern  States 
Mission,  will  offer  the  closing  prayer. 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  5  Second  Day 

I  would  like  to  say  that  we  appreciate  Selection  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 

the  kindness  of  President  A.  Ray  Olpin  men's  chorus,  "Thou  Art  Repose." 

of  the  University  of  Utah  in  postponing  The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by 

his  great  basketball  game  tonight  until  Elder  Joel  Richards,  formerly  president 

after  this  meeting.  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission. 

THIRD  DAY 
CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


The  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast  was 
presented  Sunday  morning,  April  6, 
from  8:30  to  9:00  over  radio  station 
KSL  and  the  Columbia  Broadcasting 
System,  with  Elder  Marion  G.  Romney 
as  the  speaker.  The  following  is  a  re- 
port of  this  service: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the 
leadership  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  fur- 
nished the  music.  Frank  W.  Asper  was 
at  the  organ.  Richard  L.  Evans  was 
the  announcer. 

(Organ  and  humming  Choir:  "Sweet 
is  the  Work.") 

Announcer:  The  Church  of  the  Air 
is  presented  by  the  CBS  Radio  Network 
so  that  men  of  different  faiths  may 
speak  to  a  nationwide  congregation. 
Today's  program,  presented  in  con- 
junction with  the  Annual  General  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  comes  to  you  from 
the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square,  through  the  facilities  of  Sta- 
tion KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City.  The  speaker 
will  be  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the 


Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the 
Church.  Music  is  provided  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  under  the  direction 
of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  Frank  Asper 
is  at  the  organ. 

The  Choir  opens  with  the  words  of 
Isaac  Watts,  "O  God,  our  help  in 
ages  past,  our  hope  for  years  to  come, 
our  shelter  from  the  stormy  blast,  and 
our  eternal  home." 

The  Choir  sang  "O  God,  Our  Help  in 
Ages  Past" — Arranged  by  Mueller. 

Announcer:  We  shall  now  hear  on 
this  Church  of  the  Air  service,  Marion 
G.  Romney  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  frequently 
referred  to  as  the  Mormon  Church. 
Elder  Romney  was  a  lawyer  by  pro- 
fession before  he  came  to  his  present 
Church  position.  He  is  also  assistant 
managing  director  of  the  Church  Wel- 
fare Program.  He  has  titled  today's 
talk  with  a  meaningful  American  motto: 
"In  God  We  Trust." 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Icome  to  you  this  morning  represent- 
ing a  people  for  whom  the  inscription 
on  our  national  coin,  "In  God  We 
Trust" — has  real  significance.  For  we 
know  that  an  effective  relationship  per- 
sists between  God  and  this  land  and 
its  people. 

Centuries  ago  the  Lord  designated 
America  a  goodly  land,  choice  above 
all  others,  to  be  reserved  for  a  right- 
eous people.  While  it  was  yet  unknown 


to  Eurasians,  He  decreed  that  it  should 
be  discovered  only  under  His  guidance 
and  promised  its  inhabitants  from  that 
time  henceforth  and  forever  that  they 
should  "...  be  free  from  bondage,  and 
from  captivity,  and  from  all  other  na- 
tions under  heaven,"  (Ether  2:12)  if  they 
would  serve  him.  On  the  other  hand, 
he  warned  that  if  they  would  not 
serve  him,  "they  should  be  brought 
down  into  captivity,  and  also  into  de- 


ELDER  MARK 

struction  both  temporally  and  spirit- 
ually." 

Preceding  the  advent  of  Columbus, 
two  mighty  peoples  dwelling  upon  this 
land  prospered  in  obeying  God's  com- 
mands and,  rebelling  against  them, 
sank  into  oblivion.  Their  records  are 
eloquent  proof  of  the  certainty  in  God's 
warning  and  promise. 

The  builders  of  modern  America, 
though  without  knowledge  of  the  divine 
decree,  have  been  aware  of  God  stand- 
ing within  "the  shadow  keeping  watch 
upon  his  own." 

Columbus,  not  knowing  it  had  been 
given,  yet  witnessed  to  the  truth  of  the 
declaration  that  the  discoverers  of 
America  should  be  led  by  divine  inspira- 
tion. "God  gave  me  the  faith  and  after- 
wards the  courage  so  that  I  was  quite 
willing  to  undertake  the  journey,"  he 
said  to  his  son,  and  in  his  will  he  wrote: 

In  the  name  of  the  most  holy  trinity, 
who  inspired  me  with  the  idea  and  after- 
wards made  it  perfectly  clear  to  me  that 
I  could  navigate  and  go  to  the  Indies  from 
Spain,  by  traversing  the  ocean  westward. 

The  early  settlers  of  the  Atlantic 
seaboard  testified  that  they  were  led 
and  sustained  by  the  power  of  God.  The 
colonists,  rejected  the  tyranny  of  King 
George,  appealed  "to  the  Supreme  Judge 
of  the  world  for  the  rectitude  of"  their 
intentions  and,  "with  a  firm  reliance 
on  the  protection  of  Divine  Providence" 
struck  for  freedom. 

At  a  critical  point  Franklin  thus 
addressed  the  constitutional  conven- 
tion, 

We  have  been  assured,  sir,  in  the  sacred 
writings,  that  "Except  the  Lord  build  the 
house,  they  labour  in  vain  that  build  it." 
I  firmly  believe  this;  and  I  also  believe 
that,  without  his  concurring  aid,  we  shall 
succeed  in  this  political  building  no  better 
than  the  builders  of  Babel.  (Documentary 
History  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States,  Vol.  Ill,  pp.  235-237.) 

In  his  1789  Thanksgiving  Proclama- 
tion, Washington  made  seven  separate 
references  to  the  Almighty,  whom  he 
acknowledged  as  the  source  of  all  the 


J  G.  ROMNEY  89 

nation's  blessings,  including  victory  in 
the  Revolution  and  "opportunity  to  es- 
tablish a  form  of  government  for"  our 
"safety  and  happiness." 

Perhaps  no  American,  save  the  proph- 
ets only,  has  put  such  implicit  trust 
in  God  as  did  the  Great  Emancipator. 
Out  of  his  personal  experiences  he 
testified  he  was  as  certain  that  God  acts 
directly  upon  human  affairs  as  he  was 
of  a  fact  apparent  to  the  senses,  such  as 
that  he  was  in  the  room  where  he  was 
then  speaking.    He  said: 

I  have  had  so  many  evidences  of  his 
direction,  so  many  instances  when  I  have 
been  controlled  by  some  other  power  than 
my  own  will,  that  I  cannot  doubt  that  this 
power  comes  from  above.  I  frequently  see 
my  way  clear  to  a  decision  when  I  am 
conscious  that  I  have  not  sufficient  facts 
upon  which  to  found  it.  But  I  cannot 
recall  one  instance  in  which  I  have  followed 
my  own  judgment,  founded  upon  such  a 
decision,  where  the  results  were  unsatis- 
factory; whereas,  in  almost  every  instance 
where  I  have  yielded  to  the  views  of  others 
I  have  had  occasion  to  regret  it.  (Abraham 
Lincoln — Man  of  God,  John  Wesley  Hill, 
124.) 

A  marked  diminution  of  our  trust  in 
God  has  taken  place  in  America  since 
the  days  of  Lincoln,  the  effect  of  which 
is  everywhere  apparent.  We  and  our 
beloved  country  are  today  at  the  cross- 
roads in  our  efforts  to  maintain  our 
glorious  American  heritage  of  political, 
temporal,  and  spiritual  freedom,  won 
and  bequeathed  to  us  by  the  fathers 
who  had  inscribed  in  their  hearts,  as 
well  as  on  their  money,  "In  God  We 
Trust."  In  every  hamlet  of  our  land 
arises  a  plaintive  cry  for  a  return  to 
that  trust  in  God  by  which  the  fathers 
built  our  nation.  I  believe  we  are  ap- 
proaching almost  an  unanimity  in  our 
feeling  that  the  great  and  imperative 
need  of  this  hour  of  decision  for  Amer- 
ica is  to  vitalize  our  trust  in  God. 

I  believe  we  can  do  it.  I  know  we  can 
do  it  if  we  are  but  willing  to  pay  the 
price.  Possessing  a  sure  knowledge  of 
the  truth  of  what  I  say,  I  point  out  two 
prerequisites  to  the  realization  of  this, 
our  great  need:  First,  we  must  in  hu- 


90 

Sunday,  April  6 

mility  seek  the  God  in  whom  we  trust 
in  earnest  prayer;  second,  we  must 
dedicate  ourselves  to  the  keeping  of 
his  commandments. 

"Seek  ye  the  Lord  while  he  may  be 
found,  call  ye  upon  him  while  he  is 
near,"  counseled  Isaiah.  (Isa.  55:6.) 

"Evening,  and  morning,  and  at  noon, 
will  I  pray,  and  cry  aloud:  and  he  shall 
hear  my  voice,"  sang  the  Psalmist. 
(Psalm  55:17.) 

"Watch  and  pray,  that  ye  enter  not 
into  temptation,"  (Matt.  26:41)  taught 
Jesus.  And  in  his  perfect  life  he  set 
the  pattern.  He  prayed  (Luke  3:21)  and 
fasted  forty  days  (Matt.  4:2)  at  the 
beginning  of  his  public  ministry;  he 
prayed  in  the  wilderness  (Luke  5:16); 
he  prayed  at  the  beginning  of  the  day 
(Mark  1:35);  he  prayed  a  whole  night 
preceding  his  selection  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles  (Luke  6:12);  he  prayed  for 
strength  in  Gethsemane;  and  finally, 
on  the  cross  in  the  hour  of  his  death, 
he  prayed.  (Ibid.,  23:34.) 

All  men  who,  "under  God,"  have  ad- 
vanced the  cause  of  righteousness  in 
America  have  been  praying  men.  Who 
has  not  heard  Isaac  Potts'  account  of 
Washington  on  his  knees  in  the  snow 
in  prayer  at  Valley  Forge?  Lincoln's 
sublime  trust  in  God  came  after  he  had 
many  times  been  driven  to  his  knees  in 
prayer.  He  thus  explained  to  General 
Sickles  the  reason  for  the  serenity  he 
experienced  while  the  outcome  of  the 
battle  of  Gettysburg  hung  in  the  bal- 
ance: 

In  the  pinch  of  your  campaign  up  there, 
when  everybody  seemed  panic-stricken  and 
nobody  could  tell  what  was  going  to  hap- 
pen, oppressed  by  the  gravity  of  affairs,  I 
went  to  my  room  one  day  and  locked 
the  door  and  got  down  on  my  knees  before 
Almighty  God  and  prayed  to  him  mightily 
for  victory  at  Gettysburg.  I  told  him  that 
this  war  was  his,  and  our  cause  his  cause, 
but  we  could  not  stand  another  Fredericks- 
burg or  Chancellorsville.  Then  and  there 
I  made  a  solemn  vow  to  Almighty  God 
that  if  he  would  stand  by  our  boys  at 
Gettysburg,  I  would  stand  by  him,  and 
he  did  stand  by  our  boys,  and  I  will  stand 
by  him.  And  after  that,  I  don't  know  how 
it  was,  and  I  cannot  explain  it,  soon  a 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

sweet  comfort  crept  into  my  soul.  The 
feeling  came  that  God  had  taken  the 
whole  business  into  his .  hands,  and 
that  things  would  go  right  at  Gettysburg, 
and  that  is  why  I  had  no  fears  about  you. 
(Hill,  op.  cit.,  339-340.) 

If  we  would  vitalize  our  trust  in  God, 
we — you  and  I — must  get  down  on  our 
knees  and  pray  to  him  as  Lincoln 
prayed,  with  all  the  energy  of  our  souls. 
And  we  must  do  so  as  did  the  Psalmist, 
evening,  morning,  and  at  noon.  We  can- 
not leave  it  for  the  other  fellow;  we 
must  do  it  ourselves,  and  we  must  do 
it  now.  If  we  will  begin  and  close  each 
day  by  praying  unto  our  Father  in 
heaven  in  secret,  as  the  Savior  admon- 
ished, thanking  him  for  our  lives,  his 
protection  over  us  and  our  loved  ones, 
our  material  comforts,  the  freedom  we 
enjoy  in  this  glorious  land;  if  we  will 
plead  with  him  to  guide  us  in  the  paths 
of  righteousness  that  we  may  merit  a 
continuation  of  his  mercies;  if  the  head 
of  every  household  will  daily  call  his 
family  about  him  and,  praying  with 
them  and  they  praying  with  him,  truly 
worship  the  Lord,  the  first  long  and 
sure  step  will  be  taken  toward  vitaliz- 
ing our  trust  in  God. 

To  take  the  second  step,  we  must 
learn  that  in  the  relationship  between 
God  and  ourselves  both  parties  have 
obligations.  We  must  stand  by  the  Lord, 
as  Lincoln  promised  to  do,  for  he  has 
promised  to  give  us  protection  against 
temporal  and  spiritual  bondage,  and 
against  all  other  nations  under  heaven, 
only  if  we  serve  him.  Praying  is  one 
way  to  serve  him,  another  way  is  to 
keep  his  commandments.  There  are 
numerous  ways  in  which  we  are  violat- 
ing them  in  America  today. 

On  many  points  the  Lord  has  given 
us  specific  guidance  with  respect  to  the 
conduct  of  our  lives;  for  example,  he 
has  said, 

Thou  shalt  not  take  the  name  of  the 
Lord  thy  God  in  vain;  for  the  Lord  will 
not  hold  him  guiltless  that  taketh  his  name 
in  vain.  (Ex.  20:7.) 

In    harmony    with    this  command 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


91 


Washington  issued  the  following  order 
in  1776: 

The  General  is  sorry  to  be  informed  that 
the  foolish  and  wicked  practice  of  profane 
cursing  and  swearing,  a  vice  heretofore 
little  known  in  an  American  army,  is  grow- 
ing into  fashion.  He  hopes  the  officers 
will,  by  example  as  well  as  influence,  en- 
deavor to  check  it,  and  that  both  they  and 
the  men  will  reflect  that  we  can  have  little 
hope  of  the  blessings  of  heaven  on  our 
arms  if  we  insult  it  by  our  impiety  and 
folly.  Added  to  this,  it  is  a  vice  so  mean 
-and  low,  .  .  .  that  every  man  of  sense  and 
character  detests  and  despises  it. 

What  respect  is  today  being  paid  to 
this  prohibition  against  profanity?  If 
you  hear  what  I  hear,  you  know  we  have 
not  placed  the  Lord  in  our  debt  through 
its  observance. 

"Remember  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep 
it  holy,"  (Ex.  20:8)  is  another  familiar 
command. 

That  it  was  revered  by  the  great 
Lincoln  is  evidenced  by  a  general  order 
to  the  army  and  the  navy,  signed  by 
him  November  15,  1862.  From  that  or- 
der I  quote: 

The  President,  commander-in-chief  of  the 
army  and  navy,  desires  and  enjoins  the 
orderly  observance  of  the  Sabbath  by  the 
officers  and  men  in  the  military  and  naval 
service.  .  .  .  The  discipline  and  character 
of  the  national  forces  should  not  suffer, 
nor  the  cause  they  defend  be  imperiled,  by 
the  profanation  of  the  day  or  name  of  the 
Most  High.  (Abraham  Lincoln,  The  War 
Years,  III,  Carl  Sandburg,  374.) 

How  do  we,  as  a  nation,  stand  upon 
this  matter  today?  Is  it  not  rather  noted 
in  the  breach  than  in  the  observance? 

"Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery," 
(Ex.  20:14)  spake  the  Lord  amidst  the 
thundering  and  lightning  of  Sinai, 
against  one  of  the  most  debasing  of  sins, 
a  practice  which  has  preceded  the  dis- 
integration of  every  fallen  civilization. 
Paul's  pronouncement  that  our  bodies 
are  the  temples  of  God,  that  "If  any 
man  defile  the  temple  of  God,  him 
shall  God  destroy,"  (I  Cor.  3:17),  is  an 
eternal  principle  still  in  force.  Much  of 
our  sorrow  and  distress  stems  from  a 
violation  of  this  divine  command. 


We  might  continue  with  others, 
"Thou  shalt  not  steal,"  "Thou  shalt  not 
bear  false  witness,"  "Thou  shalt  not 
covet,"  (Ex.  20:15-17)  but  we  now  have 
in  mind  enough  to  persuade  us  of  many 
ways  in  which  we  may  improve,  if  we 
really,  in  truth  and  without  hypocrisy, 
are  committed  to  keeping  the  command- 
ments of  God. 

I  plead  with  you,  my  friends,  for  a 
vitalization  of  our  trust  in  God  through 
earnest  prayer  and  a  careful  keeping  of 
the  Lord's  commands.  Every  substitute 
we  have  tried  has  left  us  deeper  in  the 
mire.  Our  integrity,  our  liberties,  our 
treasures,  are  slipping  like  sand  through 
our  fingers.  Our  cynicism  and  godless 
learning  lead  us  ever  farther  from  the 
truth.  Why  should  we  not  put  to  test 
the  one  untried  plan  of  self-disciplined 
conformance  to  the  plain  and  simple 
commands  of  the  God  in  whom  we  pro- 
fess to  trust.  Doing  this,  turning  not 
to  the  right  hand  or  to  the  left,  we 
shall  become  strong  and  of  a  good 
courage.  The  Lord  will  be  with  and 
prosper  us,  whithersoever  we  go.  Our 
trust  in  him  being  thus  vitalized  into  an 
all-powerful  present  reality,  the  strongest 
bulwark  in  all  our  defenses,  we  shall 
sing  with  strong  conviction, 

Our  fathers'  God  to  thee, 

Author  of  liberty, 

To  thee  we  sing; 

Long  may  our  land  be  bright 

With  freedom's  holy  light; 

Protect  us  by  thy  might, 

Great  God,  our  king. 

That  we  may  do  so,  I  humbly  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Choir  sang:  "America"—  Mc- 
Clellan-Cornwall-Smyth. 

Announcer:  "God  of  our  Fathers, 
whose  almighty  hand  leads  forth.  .  .  . 
Thy  love  divine  hath  led  us  in  the  past, 
in  this  free  land  by  thee  our  lot  is  cast; 
be  Thou  our  ruler,  guardian,  guide  and 
stay,  Thy  word  our  law,  Thy  paths  our 
chosen  way." 

Selection  by  the  Choir,  "God  of  our 
Fathers" — Warren. 


92 

Sunday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 
CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


Third  Day 


The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  was  presented  from  9:00  to  9:30 
a.m.,  through  the  courtesy  and  facilities 
of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System's 
network,  throughout  the  United  States. 
The  broadcast  was  as  follows: 

(Organ  played  "As  the  Dew,"  and  on 
signal  the  Choir  and  Organ  broke  into 
the  hymn,  "Gently  Raise  the  Sacred 
Strain,"  singing  words  to  the  end  of 
the  second  line,  and  humming  to  the 
end  of  verse  for  announcer's  back- 
ground.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  music  and 
the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 

The  CBS  Radio  network  and  its  affili- 
ated stations  bring  you  at  this  hour 
another  presentation  from  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  J.  Spen- 
cer Cornwall  conducting  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Frank  Asper,  Tabernacle  Organ- 
ist, and  the  spoken  word  by  Richard 
Evans. 

The  Choir  first  turns  to  Psalm  57, 
sung  in  a  setting  by  M.  Thomas  Cous- 
ins: "I  will  praise  Thee,  O  Lord  among 
the  people,  I  will  sing  unto  Thee  among 


the  nations  ...  let  Thy  glory  be  above 
all  the  earth,  Glorious  everlasting!" 

The  Choir  sang:  "Glorious  Everlast- 
ing"— Cousins. 

Announcer:  With  Frank  Asper  at  the 
Tabernacle  organ  on  Temple  Square 
today  we  hear  one  of  the  impressive 
organ  offerings  of  Ceasar  Franck:  "Piece 
Heroique." 

Organ  selection:  "Piece  Heroique" — 
Franck. 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
sings  now  a  song  by  William  Billings, 
written  on  David's  anguished  sorrow  for 
his  son  who  was  slain:  "David's  Lamen- 
tation:" "And  the  King  was  much 
moved,  and  went  up  to  the  chamber 
over  the  gate,  and  wept;  and  as  he  went, 
thus  he  said,  O  .  .  .  Absalom,  my  son, 
my  son  .  .  .  would  God  I  had  died  for 
thee,  O  Absalom,  my  sonl" 

The  Choir  sang:  "David's  Lamenta- 
tion"— Billings. 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
continues  with  the  softly  echoing  anthem 
by  L.  Stanley  Glarum  and  with  words 
from  the  47th  Psalm:  "Sing  Praises  unto 
our  King,  for  God  is  King  o'er  all  the 
earth." 

The  Choir  then  sang:  "Sing  Praises" 
— Glarum. 


THE  SPOKEN  WORD 


"All  real  joy  and  power  of  progress 
.  .  .  depend  on  finding  something  to 
reverence,  and  all  the  baseness  and  mis- 
ery of  humanity  begin  in  a  habit  of  dis- 
dain." These  words  of  John  Ruskin 
suggest  some  of  the  results  of  irreverence 
and  also  some  of  the  symptoms.  Some 
irreverence  is  more  a  matter  of  thought- 
lessness, as  the  boisterousness  of  boys. 
Some,  as  Ruskin  wrote,  partakes  of  deli- 
berate, cynical  disdain.  Some  shows 
itself  in  profane  and  offensive  speech. 
Some  is  evident  only  in  attitude.  Some 
is  apparent  by  confusion  and  disorder 
in  places  where  there  should  be  quiet 
and  contemplation.  True  reverence  is 


not  strained  or  stiff  or  artificial,  but  a 
sincere  sense  in  one's  soul  that  some 
things  are  sacred — that  some  things 
should  not  be  lightly  spoken  of  nor 
lightly  considered.  In  the  presence  of 
great  art,  great  music,  great  minds  there 
is  due  respect  and  deference.  Then  how 
much  more  respect  and  deference  are 
due  the  Creator  of  heaven  and  earth, 
in  whose  image  men  were  made,  whose 
wisdom  and  works  are  infinite,  to  whom 
we  owe  all  the  bounteous  blessings  of 
life,  the  recurring  seasons,  the  spring- 
time, the  harvest,  the  love  of  family 
and  friends,  the  reality  we  have  here 
and  the  assurance  of  life  hereafter.  If 


THE  SPOl 

we  lose  the  spirit  of  reverence  as  to  the 
works  and  ways  of  Providence  we  shall 
lose  much  else  also — for  the  kind  of 
corrosion  that  rusts  away  reverence  also 
rusts  away  other  finer  feelings.  Cer- 
tainly life  need  not  be  longfaced.  Cer- 
tainly there  are  many  times  and  places 
when  high-minded  humor  and  light- 
hearted  talk  and  heartily  informal  fel- 
lowship are  a  permissible  and  important 
part  of  life.  But  there  are  also  sacred 
places,  sacred  hours,  sacred  subjects  that 
should  be  reverently  respected — and  he 
who  is  insensitive  to  them  is  sometimes 
suspected  of  lacking  some  essential 
training  or  some  essential  qualities  of 
character.  We  commend  these  words 
from  the  seventeenth  century:  "Let  thy 
speeches  be  seriously  reverent  when 
thou  speakest  of  God  or  His  attributes; 
for  to  jest  or  utter  thyself  lightly  in 
matters  divine  is  an  unhappy  impiety, 
provoking  Heaven  to  justice,  and  urging 
all  men  to  suspect  thy  belief."  "Always 
and  in  everything  let  there  be  rever- 
ence." 

The  Choir  sang:  "Come,  Thou  Fount 
of  Every  Blessing" — Wyeth-Cornwall. 

Organ  selection:  "Jesus  Once  of  Hum- 
ble Birth." 

Announcer:  We  have  heard  the  Choir 
recall  a  hymn  with  words  by  Robert 
Robinson  and  music  by  John  Wyeth: 
"Come,  Thou  Fount  of  Every  Bless- 
ing." 

And  with  Frank  Asper  at  the  Organ 
we  have  heard  a  hymn  tune  that  takes 
its  title  from  the  words  of  Parley  P. 
Pratt:  "Jesus  Once  of  Humble  Birth." 


IN  WORD  93 

And  now  in  closing  the  Choir  recalls 
a  moving  and  majestic  chorus  from 
Mendelssohn's  "Elijah,"  with  words 
from  I  Kings — words  that  contrast  vio- 
lence and  physical  force  with  the  calm 
quiet  whisperings  of  the  still  small  voice: 
"Behold!  God  the  Lord  Passed  By!— 
And  a  mighty  wind  rent  the  mountains 
—the  sea  was  upheaved,  the  earth  was 
shaken.  .  .  .  But  yet  the  Lord  was  not 
in  the  Tempest,  nor  in  the  earthquake 
.  .  .  nor  in  the  fire.  But  after  the  fire 
there  came  a  still  small  voice,  and  in 
that  still  small  voice,  onward  came  the 
Lord."— "Behold,  God  the  Lord  Passed 

By." 

The  Choir  sang:  "Behold,  God  the 
Lord  Passed  By" — Mendelssohn. 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  leave  you 
within  the  shadows  of  the  everlasting 
hills.  May  peace  be  with  you,  this 
day — and  always. 

This  concludes  the  eleven  hundred 
and  eighty-first  presentation,  continuing 
the  23rd  year  of  this  traditional  broad- 
cast from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square,  brought  to  you  by  CBS 
radio,  and  originating  with  Radio  Sta- 
tion KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducted  the 
Tabt  rnacle  Choir  with  its  three  hundred 
seventy-five  singing  voices.  Frank  Asper 
was  at  the  organ.  The  spoken  word  by 
Richard  Evans. 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  music  and  the  spoken  word  will 
be  heard  once  more  from  the  Cross- 
roads of  the  West. 


SUNDAY  MORNING  GENERAL  CONFERENCE  SESSION 


Conference  reconvened  at  10:00  a.m. 

The  great  Tabernacle  was  again 
crowded  to  capacity,  great  crowds  of 
people  having  gathered  on  the  grounds 
and  in  the  buildings  long  before  time 
to  commence  the  Church  of  the  Air 
broadcast  at  8:30  a.m.  The  Assembly 
Hall  and  Barratt  Hall  were  also  com- 
pletely filled  with  people  who  listened 
to  the  services  and  watched  them  by 


means  of  television.  In  addition  thou- 
sands were  assembled  on  the  Taber- 
nacle grounds,  the  weather  being  de- 
lightful, where  they  listened  to  the 
proceedings  by  amplifying  equipment  as 
the  services  went  forward  in  the  Taber- 
nacle. 

President  McKay,  who  presided  and 
conducted  the  services,  called  the  meet- 
ing to  order  promptly  at  10:00  o'clock. 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  6 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Last  Friday,  at  the  opening  session  of 
the  General  Conference,  three  names 
were  given  of  prominent  Church  work- 
ers who  had  passed  away  since  last 
October.  This  morning  we  have  to  an- 
nounce the  passing  of  Bishop  David  A. 
Smith,  formerly  a  member  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric,  and  also  formerly 
President  of  the  Canadian  Mission. 

At  a  special  meeting  of  the  Council 
of  the  First  Presidency  and  the  Twelve 
this  morning,  it  was  unanimously  voted 
to  extend  love  and  sympathy  to  Sister 
Smith,  the  sons  and  daughters  of  Bishop 
Smith,  to  our  fellow  worker,  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith,  brother  of  Bishop  Smith, 
and  to  all  other  members  of  the  family. 
He  was  a  very  earnest  and  faithful  work- 
er in  the  Missionary  Home  for  many 
years,  and  was  one  of  the  first  to  partici- 
pate in  the  instruction  given  to  mission- 
aries many  years  ago.  Peace  to  his  mem- 
ory. May  we  emulate  his  good  deeds  and 
have  comfort  in  the  realization  that  he 
has  gone  to  a  rich  reward  and  merits 
the  plaudit,  "Well  done,  thou  good  and 
faithful  servant,  enter  into  the  joy  of 
thy  Lord." 

For  the  benefit  of  the  listening  audi- 
ence, I  may  say  that  the  fifth  session  of 
this  general  conference  was  not  broad- 
cast. It  was  a  General  Priesthood  Meet- 
ing held  last  evening  in  the  Tabernacle, 
with  overflow  meetings  held  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  the  Barratt  Hall, 
and  for  your  interest  as  well,  we  should 
like  to  say  that  as  nearly  as  the  ushers 
could  count,  (and  several  think  this  is 
an  understatement,)  there  were  as- 
sembled in  the  Priesthood  Meeting  last 
evening,  16,769  men  holding  the  priest- 
hood. It  was  a  thrill  and  an  inspiration 
just  to  be  in  their  midstl 

Brother  Walter  Stover,  returned  mis- 
sionary from  the  East  German  Mission, 
who  presided  over  the  East  German 
Mission,  a  majority  of  the  branches  of 
which  are  behind  the  "Iron  Curtain," 
was  the  first  speaker,  and  the  other 
speakers  were  the  First  Presidency  of 
the  Church. 

This  is  the  sixth  session,  therefore, 


Third  Day 

of  the  122nd  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  As  heretofore  announced,  we  are 
convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City.  These  serv- 
ices will  be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  Barratt  Hall  over  a  loud 
speaking  system  and  by  television.  The 
proceedings  of  this  session  will  also  be 
broadcast  over  Station  K  S  L,  and  by 
arrangement  through  K  S  L,  over  the 
stations  named  in  the  first  session  of 
the  Conference.  We  shall  not  repeat 
the  names,  but  we  wish  the  stations  to 
accept  our  appreciation  for  their  co- 
operation in  broadcasting  these  services. 

This  session  will  also  be  televised 
over  K  S  L  television  station,  channel 
five. 

The  Choir  singing  for  this  morning's 
session  of  the  Conference  will  be  by 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Elder  J. 
Spencer  Cornwall  conducting,  and  with 
Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  the  services  by  the 
congregation  and  the  Choir  singing 
"Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints,"  conducted  by 
Elder  Cornwall. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Wallace  F.  Toronto,  formerly 
president  of  the  Czechoslovakian  Mis- 
sion. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  con- 
gregation joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints." 

Elder  Wallace  F.  Toronto,  formerly 
president  of  the  Czecho-Slovakian  Mis- 
sion, offered  the  invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

At  this  point  we  wish  to  express  ap- 
preciation of  the  excellent  service  being 
rendered  by  our  brethren  who  are  acting 
as  ushers,  and  they  suggest  that  possibly 
two  or  three  hundred  more  people  may 
find  seats,  if  you  brethren  and  sisters 
will  just  move  more  closely  in  towards 
the  center.  Try  it  anyhow.  It  is  sur- 
prising how  much  noise  and  how  little 
room  that  moving  in  makes! 

We  are  informed  that  there  are  in 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


95 


attendance  this  morning,  eleven  men 
and  women  from  Denmark,  leaders  of 
Danish  cooperatives,  trade  unions,  busi- 
ness and  social  organizations.  They  are 
traveling  in  the  United  States  as  guests 
of  the  United  States  Department  of 
Commerce.  In  your  behalf  I  take  pleas- 
ure in  extending  welcome  to  these,  our 
friends  from  Denmark. 

We  welcome  also  the  State,  City,  and 
County  officials  in  attendance,  and  the 
leaders  of  the  University  of  Utah,  the 
Agricultural  College,  Brigham  Young 
University,  and  other  educational  insti- 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing, 
"Hear  My  Cry,  O  God,"  Brother  Corn- 
wall conducting. 


tutions. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  an 
anthem,  "Hear  My  Cry,  O  God." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency,  will  be  our  first  speak- 
er. He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  John 
Longden. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


Icome  to  you  in  deep  humility,  sens- 
ing, at  least  in  part,  my  responsibil- 
ity, and  with  a  prayer  in  my  heart, 
which  I  hope  will  be  echoed  in  yours, 
that  I  may  be  led  to  say  something  that 
will  tend  to  our  upbuilding  and  leading 
us  into  that  narrow  way  of  life  which 
our  Heavenly  Father  has  marked  out  for 
those  who  would  come  back  into  his 
presence.  May  the  Lord  be  with  us 
during  this  whole  session,  and  the 
session  that  is  to  follow  even  as  he  has 
been  with  us  to  the  present  time. 

As  I  sat  here  yesterday,  something 
brought  to  my  mind  that  I  am  the 
oldest  member  of  the  General  Authori- 
ties. This  is  an  honor  that  has  been 
thrust  upon  me  by  time.  It  is  an  honor 
that  any  of  my  brethren  can  reach,  if 
they  will  live  for  it.  I  say  this,  neither 
by  way  of  boasting  nor  for  the  purpose 
of  inviting  sympathy,  but  I  say  it  that 
I  might  make  use  of  what  I  hope  is 
some  experience  of  value  and  the  result 
of  some  reflection. 

I  have  lived  long  enough  and  there 
has,  year  by  year,  come  more  into  my 
consciousness,  the  knowledge  that  the 
principles  of  the  everlasting  gospel  are 
beyond  my  power  of  rationalizing. 
Furthermore,  I  am  persuaded  that  there 
is  none  who,  unaided  by  the  spirit  of  the 
Lord,  and  there  is  only  one  in  this 
Church  and  in  this  world,  who  has  the 


right  to  rationalize,  and  that  is,  at  the 
present  time,  President  David  O.  Mc- 
Kay, our  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator — I 
have  come  to  feel  that  there  is  none 
who  can  safely  rationalize.  And  I  am 
persuaded  more  to  that  by  what  hap- 
pened in  the  early  Christian  Church, 
which,  lacking  a  head  that  was  effective 
during  the  early  centuries,  drifted  away 
because  they  tried  to  make  God's  plan 
accord  with  their  reason,  and  with  the 
reason  of  the  pagan  philosophies. 

I  am  persuaded  we  must  watch  care- 
fully that  we  do  not  follow  along  those 
paths.  Some  of  the  greatest  heresies  that 
have  crept  into  the  Christian  religion 
came  in  through  a  very  few  men  who 
held  no  real  official  position,  mostly, 
but  who  spent  their  time  and  their  tal- 
ents, and  they  were  great,  in  trying  to 
rationalize  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
There  is  some  evidence  —  these  were 
called  "schoolmen,"  and  the  results  of 
their  work  "scholasticism,"  —  and  I  am 
persuaded  that  we  have  some  tendency 
in  that  direction  as  among  ourselves,  and 
I  hope  that  the  people  will  not  listen 
to  the  rationalizing  of  men  who  under- 
take to  make  God's  plan  conform  to 
what  they  think  it  should  be  in  their 
weak  and  ineffective  reasonings. 

I  am  grateful  to  have  lived  in  this 
day  and  age  when  the  gospel  has  been 
restored.  I  take  it  there  is  no  man  or 


96 

Sunday,  April  6 

woman  who  sits  down  calmly  to  think, 
in  the  Church  or  out  of  the  Church,  but 
more  particularly  out  of  the  Church, 
for  light  has  come  to  us  who  are  in  the 
Church,  who  does  not  ask  himself  or 
herself,  "Where  did  we  come  from? 
Why  are  we  here?  Whither  do  we  go?" 
We  Latter-day  Saints  have  been  instruct- 
ed in  that,  and  the  instruction  has  come 
to  us  in  modern  revelation. 

The  book  of  Abraham,  found  in  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price,  tells  us  of  the  be- 
ginning, how  the  Lord  came  down 
among  the  intelligences,  and  as  a  result 
of  his  coming  down,  there  was  a  great 
council  in  heaven.  The  record  in  Abra- 
ham which  precedes  the  account  of  the 
council,  is  devoted  to  explaining  that 
there  are  inequalities  in  God's  creation, 
and  inequalities  among  the  intelligences, 
npt  all  are  equal.  The  Lord  said  to 
Abraham,  calling  attention  to  this  great 
group  of  intelligences,  that  there  were 
among  them  those  who  were  the  great 
ones,  and  declared  to  Abraham  that  he 
was  one  of  those  who  were  to  be  rulers. 

I  want  to  read  just  two  or  three  verses, 
and  I  am  reading  from  the  third  chap- 
ter of  Abraham: 

And  there  stood  one  among  them  [this 
great  group]  that  was  like  unto  God,  and 
he  said  unto  those  who  were  with  him: 
We  will  go  down,  for  there  is  space  there, 
and  we  will  take  of  these  materials,  and 
we  will  make  an  earth  whereon  these  may 
dwell. 

I  call  attention  to  the  two  succeeding 
verses  which  I  shall  read,  because  they 
are  filled  with  certain  great  elemental 
truths.  He  continues: 

And  we  will  prove  them  herewith  [the 
intelligences] ,  to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things 
whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God  shall  com- 
mand them." 

That  was  the  purpose  for  creating  the 
earth.  We  were  all  there,  all  participat- 
ing; we  thus  knew  of  the  plan  from  the 
very  beginning. 

And  they  who  keep  their  first  estate  shall 
be  added  upon;  and  they  who  keep  not  their 
first  estate  shall  not  have  glory  in  the  same 
kingdom  with  those  who  keep  their  first 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

estate;  and  they  who  keep  their  second 
estate  [the  estate  in  which  we  now  are] 
shall  have  glory  added  upon  their  heads 
for  ever  and  ever."  (Abraham  3:24-26.) 

Thus  we  know  whither  we  came,  and 
why  we  are  here,  and  where,  to  what 
place  we  shall  go.  The  whole  plan  is 
summed  up  in  those  few  words. 

Now  since  we  came  here  to  be  proved, 
the  Lord  did  not  leave  Adam  in  doubt 
about  what  he  should  do,  or  how  he 
should  do  it,  for  the  Lord  gave  to  Adam 
the  gospel,  and  the  gospel  which  he  gave 
to  him  included  the  revelation  and  the 
knowledge  that  there  would  come  a 
Redeemer.  You  will  recall,  you  who 
know  the  scriptures,  the  angel  of  the 
Lord  asked  Adam  why  he  offered  sacri- 
fice. He  said  he  did  not  know  except 
that  he  had  been  commanded  to  do  so. 
I  think  there  is  a  great  lesson  there. 
They  who  rationalize,  try  to  say  why 
we  do  this,  why  we  do  that.  Adam  set 
the  example.  Why  did  he  do  it?  Because 
the  Lord  had  commanded  it.  And  then 
the  angel  of  the  Lord  explained  to  him 
the  great  atonement  that  was  to  come. 

Now,  that  gospel  so  revealed  to  Adam 
has  been  in  the  world  to  a  greater  or  less 
extent,  sometimes  less,  from  that  time 
until  now.  It  taught  us  what  we  should 
do,  and  what  we  should  not  do.  We 
have  never,  when  his  Church  has  been 
on  the  earth,  the  Church  of  Christ,  been 
in  any  doubt  on  these  two  points. 

You  will  examine  the  Bible  for  some 
detailed  statement  of  the  principles  of 
the  gospel,  up  until  the  time  of  Moses, 
with  but  scant  success.  But  if  you  will 
read  carefully  the  book  of  Moses  in  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price,  you  can  glean,  and 
will  glean  from  there  the  great  principles 
of  this  gospel,  even  as  they  have  been 
revealed  and  are  taught  to  us  today. 
When  Moses  came,  we  had  the  Ten 
Commandments  given  to  us.  They  are 
the  guiding  star  for  the  world  civiliza- 
tion today.  Blot  out  the  Ten  Command- 
ments, and  you  have  the  darkness  which 
rests  upon  Russia  and  those  nations 
which  follow  her. 

I  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  the 
Ten  Commandments,  every  one  of  them, 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


97 


have  in  them  a  spiritual  element.  There 
is  nothing  in  them  that,  if  obeyed,  does 
not  build  the  spirit.  From  then  until 
now  there  has  been,  effective  in  the 
world,  a  part  at  least  of  the  great  gospel. 
Men  have  known  what  they  should  do, 
and  what  they  should  not  do. 

Now  time  will  not  permit  me  to  de- 
velop what  we  should  do.  We  do  as  we 
are  commanded,  in  order  that  we  may 
meet  the  design  of  our  Heavenly  Father, 
who  said, 

For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my 
glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
eternal  life  of  man.  (Moses  1:39.) 

That  is  the  purpose. 

Now,  I  am  happy,  very  happy,  that 
the  Lord  not  only  told  us  what  we 
should  do,  but  has  told  us  what  we 
should  not  do.  He  has  told  us  the 
things  that  will  prevent  our  gaining 
this  immortality  and  eternal  life.  Sad, 
indeed,  would  have  been  our  situation, 
had  we  been  merely  told  what  we  might 
do.  But  he  has  not  left  us  in  darkness 
as  to  what  we  ought  not  to  do. 

And  since  doing  the  things  we  ought 
not  to  do  forfeits  the  glory  which  the 
Lord  has  marked  out  for  us,  and  if  you 
want  to  know  about  that  read  sections 
76  and  88  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, then  we  must  refrain  from  doing 
the  things  which  he  has  commanded  us 
not  to  do,  refrain  from  misdoings  of 
various  kinds,  refrain  from  sin,  and  all 
transgressions.  And  I  thought  perhaps  it 
might  not  be  without  value  if  I  were  to 
read  to  you,  for  you  to  reflect  upon  some 
of  the  things  that  we  are  told  we  ought 
not  to  do,  some  of  the  offenses  we  should 
not  commit  under  the  penalty  that  if 
we  do  commit  them  we  shall  not  reach 
the  full  glory  which  the  Lord  has  marked 
out  for  us. 

And  I  am  going  to  read  just  a  few 
things  from  Paul.  Paul  said: 

For  men  shall  be  lovers  of  their  own 
selves,  covetous,  boasters,  proud,  blasphemers, 
disobedient  to  parents,  unthankful,  unholy, 

Without  natural  affection,  trucebreakers, 
false  accusers,  incontinent,  fierce,  despisers 
of  those  that  are  good. 


Traitors,  heady,  highminded,  lovers  of 
pleasures  more  than  lovers  of  God; 

Having  a  form  of  godliness,  but  denying 
the  power  thereof:  from  such  turn  away.  .  .  . 

But  evil  men  and  seducers  shall  wax  worse 
and  worse,  deceiving,  and  being  deceived. 
(II  Tim.  3:2-5,  13.) 

That  was  to  Timothy.  Again  to  Timo- 
thy: 

0  Timothy,  keep  that  which  is  committed 
to  thy  trust,  avoiding  profane  and  vain 
babblings,  and  oppositions  of  science  falsely 
so  called.  (I  Tim.  .6:20.) 

Neither  let  us  commit  fornication,  as  some 
of  them  committed,  and  fell  in  one  day 
three  and  twenty  thousand.  .  .  . 

Wherefore,  my  dearly  beloved,  flee  from 
idolatry.  (1  Cor.  10:8,  14.) 

And  that  was  the  burden  of  Paul, 
"flee  from  idolatry,"  and  leave  the  food 
offered  to  idols  alone.  We  Latter-day 
Saints  do  not  worship  idols,  we  do  not 
worship  relics,  we  do  not  have  shrines. 
I  wonder  sometimes,  however,  if  there 
is  not  something  of  idolatry  among  us. 
I  call  our  idolaters,  worshipers  of  dimes 
and  chasers  of  nickels. 

But  I  say,  that  the  things  which  the 
Gentiles  sacrifice,  they  sacrifice  to  devils,  and 
not  to  God:  and  I  would  not  that  ye  should 
have  fellowship  with  devils. 

Ye  cannot  drink  the  cup  of  the  Lord, 
and  the  cup  of  devils:  ye  cannot  be  par- 
takers of  the  Lord's  table,  and  of  the  table 
of  devils.  (Ibid.,  10:20-21.) 

Peter  said: 

But  there  were  false  prophets  also  among 
the  people,  even  as  there  shall  be  false 
teachers  among  you,  who  privily  shall 
bring  in  damnable  heresies,  even  denying 
the  Lord  that  bought  them,  and  bring  upon 
themselves  swift  destruction.  (II  Peter  2:1.) 

These  six  things  doth  the  Lord  hate:  yea, 
seven  are  an  abomination  unto  him: 

A  proud  look,  a  lying  tongue,  and  hands 
that  shed  innocent  blood, 

An  heart  that  deviseth  wicked  imagina- 
tions, feet  that  be  swift  in  running  to  mis- 
chief, 

A  false  witness  that  speaketh  lies,  and  he 
that  soweth  discord  among  brethren.  (Pro- 
verbs 6:16-19.) 

1  read  these  to  show  you  that  the 
Lord  has  not  left  us  in  doubt  nor  in 


98 

Sunday,  April  6 

darkness  as  to  the  things,  some  of  them, 
that  we  should  not  do.  We  add  these 
to  the  Ten  Commandments. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  salva- 
tion is  ours,  if  we  will  but  live  for  it. 
We  shall  forfeit  it  if  we  do  the  things 
which  his  prophets  have  declared  unto 
us  should  not  be  done.  Read,  I  repeat, 
sections  76  and  88  and  see  what  the 
Lord  has  laid  up  for  us  when  we  live 
the  principles  of  the  gospel. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  he  who  will 
read  needs  have  no  doubt  of  the  great 
future  that  lies  ahead  of  us,  he  will 
have  no  doubt  of  the  place  to  which  we 
go,  of  the  associations  which  will  be  his; 
he  will  have  no  doubt  but  that  the 
eternities  that  are  to  come  are  worth  in 
happiness  and  joy,  all  of  the  giving  up  of 
the  pleasures,  so-called,  of  this  life,  from 
which  we  are  asked  to  refrain. 

I  am  sure  the  prize  is  worth  the  re- 
straint. And  after  all,  all  the  things 
that  we  are  asked  to  refrain  from  are 
things  which  lower  our  standards  of 
joy,  lower  our  standards  of  life,  lower 
our  respect  for  humanity  and  humanity's 
respect  for  us,  and  leave  us  debtors  to 
the  whole  list  of  Christian  virtues. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  keep  his 
commandments,  help  us  to  earn  that 
which  he  has  provided  for  us. 

And  I  bear  my  testimony  to  you  at 
this  time  that  God  lives,  that  he  hears 
and  answers  prayers,  for  he  has  heard 
and  answered  mine.  I  bear  you  my  testi- 
mony that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  he  is 
the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the 
World,  the  First  Fruits  of  the  Resur- 
rection, that  through  his  redeeming 
blood  all  mankind  shall  be  saved,  that  is 
to  say,  shall  be  resurrected,  and  that 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

those  who  keep  the  commandments  and 
live  the  life  which  he  gave  and  lived 
will  have  an  eternal  glory  in  the  celestial 
kingdom. 

I  bear  you  my  witness  that  Joseph 
Smith  did  have  a  vision,  that  the  Fath- 
er and  Son  did  visit  him,  that  holy 
angels  came  to  him;  that  the  priesthood, 
the  Holy  Priesthood  of  God  which  had 
been  lost  to  the  earth  for  centuries  was 
restored  through  him  to  this  earth;  that 
those  who  have  followed  him  in  his 
high  and  great  calling  of  President  of 
the  Church,  the  Presiding  High  Priest 
of  the  Church,  have  the  same  rights, 
the  same  privileges,  the  same  authority 
which  he  held,  even  from  Joseph's  time 
down  to  President  McKay,  who  holds 
those  rights,  exercises  those  functions, 
possesses  all  of  the  spiritual  powers  of 
the  priesthood  which  Joseph  had;  and 
that  this  Church  will  continue  to  go  for- 
ward, that  those  who  follow  President 
McKay  will  enjoy  the  like  privileges, 
the  like  authority,  and  exercise  the  like 
functions. 

There  is  no  doubt  about  this,  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  and  if  we  could 
just  take  this  into  our  hearts  and  under- 
stand it,  make  it  part  of  ourselves,  not 
a  mere  expression,  not  lip-service  but 
service  by  act,  the  power  of  this  people 
would  be  unlimited. 

God  grant  that  to  all  of  us  and  to 
each  of  us  may  come  this  testimony,  to 
the  end  that  we  shall  continue  to  spread 
the  gospel  in  the  world,  continue  to 
build  up  our  own  Church,  and  for  our- 
selves individually,  and  as  an  incident 
to  all  that,  gain  eternal  salvation  in  his 
celestial  kingdom,  I  humbly  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


1 realize  more  than  anyone  else,  ex- 
cepting my  Heavenly  Father  and  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ,  my  utter  weakness 
in  and  of  myself  to  occupy  this  position 
this  morning.  I  am  sure  with  an  interest 
in  your  faith  and  prayers  ascending  to 
our  Heavenly  Father  that  I  may  be 


blessed  with  his  Spirit  and  we  may  be 
recipients  of  his  blessings. 

I  haven't  words  to  express  adequately 
my  appreciation  and  gratitude  for  the 
rich  blessings  which  have  been  mine 
during  the  past  six  months  in  visiting 
the  stakes  and  the  wards  throughout  the 


ELDER  JOHN 

Church.  It  has  been  an  inspiration  and 
makes  me  humble  as  I  endeavor  to  teach 
the  restored  work  of  God.  I  would  like 
publicly  to  mention  here  this  morning 
that  I  am  grateful  for  the  words  of 
kindness  and  felicitations  that  have 
been  extended  to  me  in  receiving  this 
call  six  months  ago,  by  members  of  the 
Church  and  by  many  who  are  not  mem- 
bers of  this  Church. 

I  am  sure  we  have  been  deeply  im- 
pressed, I  know  I  have,  with  the  dig- 
nity with  which  these  meetings  have 
been  presided  over  and  conducted  by 
President  McKay  and  those  in  authority. 
I  am  sure  we  have  felt  of  their  power 
and  strength,  as  we  have  listened  to  the 
words  of  salvation.  Jesus  Christ,  as  he 
faced  a  group  of  Pharisees  on  one  oc- 
casion, questioned  them  when  he  said, 
"What  think  ye  of  Christ?"  That  is  a 
question  that  might  be  asked  of  us  to- 
day. We  can  answer  it  in  our  own 
minds.  We  do  not  have  to  answer  it 
orally  or  in  writing.  "What  think  ye  of 
Christ?" 

These  men,  our  leaders,  have  exempli- 
fied to  me  their  love  of  God  and  their 
love  for  their  fellow  men,  their  neigh- 
bors, and  I  shall  always  be  appreciative 
of  the  rich  experience  which  was  mine 
in  having  one  assignment  with  Elder 
Joseph  F.  Merrill  the  first  week  follow- 
ing the  last  general  conference,  and  par- 
taking of  his  spirit.  I  could  not  help 
realizing  that  here  was  a  man  scholas- 
tically  trained,  educated  in  the  sciences 
and  in  the  engineering  field,  and  yet, 
young  people,  he  was  not  swerved  from 
the  path  of  truth  and  righteousness. 
He  was  not  ashamed  to  bear  witness 
that  Jesus  was  the  Christ  and  that  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  in 
very  deed  a  prophet  of  God.  You  young 
people  can  take  heed  of  this  fine  exam- 
ple from  such  noble  leaders,  as  all  these 
men  are  who  are  guiding  and  directing 
the  work  of  the  Church  and  kingdom 
here  in  the  earth. 

I  should  like  to  have  you  review  with 
me  for  a  moment  or  two  an  incident 
which  took  place  just  eight  years  ago. 
A  young  man  of  this  Church  who  had 
put  on  the  uniform  of  his  country  to 


LONGDEN  99 

defend  freedom  and  liberty  and  the 
rights  of  the  individual  found  himself 
from  his  home  town  in  Boise,  Idaho,  on 
a  beachhead  in  Normandy,  about  a 
month  before  D  Day.-  As  if  he  had  a 
premonition  of  what  was  going  to  hap- 
pen, he  sat  there  and  wrote  a  message 
to  a  friend  of  his  in  Boise.  And  he 
said,  concluding  that  letter, 

"I  should  like  to  give  you  the  formula, 
or  the  requisite  for  peace,  if  you  please.  It 
is  nothing  new,  but  I  ask  you  that  we  re- 
discover the  things  which  we  already  have, 
and  that  were  given  to  us  by  the  Master 
some  two  thousand  years  ago  in  a  single 
sentence,  when  he  said.  'Thou  shalt  love 
the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and 
with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind. 
This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment. 
And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt 
love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself.' "  (Matt. 
22:37-39.) 

This  boy  made  the  supreme  sacrifice 
a  few  days  after  writing  this  letter. 

These  are  truths  that  we  might  well 
reflect  upon  this  morning,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  as  we  also  review  an  incident 
in  the  New  Testament.  The  Savior  had 
been  teaching  his  doctrine,  the  saving 
principles  of  salvation  and  exaltation. 
He  was  queried  by  a  lawyer  who  said 
to  him,  "What  good  thing  shall  I  do, 
that  I  may  have  eternal  life?" 

He  was  endeavoring  no  doubt  to  trap 
him,  because  the  Master  counter-ques- 
tioned him  and  said,  "What  is  written 
in  the  law?  How  readest  thou?" 

The  lawyer  answered,  "Thou  shalt 
love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  they 
heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with 
all  thy  strength,  and  with  all  thy  mind; 
and  thy  neighbour  as  thyself." 

And  the  Savior  said,  "If  you  will  do 
these  things,  thou  shalt  live." 

Then  trying  to  justify  himself,  the 
lawyer  said,  "And  who  is  my  neigh- 
bour?" 

The  Master  then  gave  that  glorious 
example  of  the  Good  Samaritan,  where 
a  certain  man  going  from  Jerusalem  to 
Jericho  had  been  set  upon  by  thieves 
and  stripped  of  his  clothing  and  his 
material  things.  (And  we,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  can  be  stripped  of  those 


100 

Sunday,  April  6 

things  which  are  material.  They  are 
insignificant.)  And  so  he  was  left  half- 
dead  in  the  roadway.  A  priest  came 
along,  and  seeing  this  man,  even  though 
he  professed  Christianity,  crossed  to 
the  other  side,  and  left  him.  Then  a 
certain  Levite  came  down  the  street 
and  likewise  saw  this  man,  and  he  also 
crossed  to  the  other  side.  But  there  was 
the  Samaritan  who  beheld  the  condition 
of  the  man  and  administered  to  him 
by  anointing  his  wounds  with  oil,  put- 
ting him  upon  his  own  beast,  and  tak- 
ing him  to  an  inn,  where  he  might 
receive  assistance.  He  left  funds  that 
he  might  be  taken  care  of,  and  advised 
the  innkeeper  that  he  would  be  back, 
and  if  it  took  additional  funds,  he 
would  gladly  see  that  those  expenses 
were  defrayed.  Then  the  Master  said, 
"Which  now  of  these  three,  thinkest 
thou,  was  neighbour  unto  him  that  fell 
among  the  thieves?" 

And  the  answer  was,  "He  that  shew- 
eth  mercy  on  him."  And  there  followed 
the  great  command  of  the  Savior,  which 
is  significant  to  me,  "Go,  and  do  thou 
likewise."  (See  Luke  10:25-37.) 

Yes,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  we 
truly  exemplify  this  teaching  of  the 
Master  to  love  our  Heavenly  Father 
sincerely  and  deeply,  then  we  will  love 
by  natural  consequence  our  neighbor. 
Thus  many  of  the  conditions  in  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

world  today  which  are  contrary  to  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  will  be  overcome. 
There  would  not  only  be  peace  in  the 
world,  but  also  we  would  have  peace 
in  our  hearts  and  in  our  souls.  And 
I  humbly  pray  as  I  bear  witness  to  you, 
my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  this  is 
true,  that  Jesus  Christ  gave  us  this 
commandment  for  a  purpose.  May  we 
have  the  energy  and  the  desire  within 
our  own  hearts,  and  the  fortitude  within 
our  souls  from  this  moment  on  to  put 
it  into  practice  more  fully  in  our  daily 
lives,  that  we  may  reap  the  rich  bless- 
ings which  are  predicated  upon  these 
truths.  I  bear  witness  to  you  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of 
God,  and  those  who  have  succeeded 
him  as  President  of  this  Church  down 
through  the  years  to  our  present  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay  have  been  men 
divinely  inspired  and  called  of  our 
Heavenly  Father.  May  we  uphold  and 
sustain  them,  and  the  revealed  truths 
of  the  Lord,  which  are  given  to  us  by 
them  from  time  to  time,  that  we  may  be 
doers  of  the  words,  and  not  only  listen- 
ers, I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God  For 
A  Prophet." 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


I pray  that  I  may  enjoy  the  blessings 
of  our  Heavenly  Father.  I  have  been 
deeply  impressed,  as  you  no  doubt 
have,  with  the  words  we  have  heard. 
And  I  have  been  deeply  impressed  by 
something  I  have  seen  this  morning. 
It  has  impressed  me  so  sincerely  that 
I  want  to  give  you  the  benefit  of  it. 
In  the  crowded  condition  of  this  Taber- 
nacle, there  came  at  the  beginning  of  the 
service  a  mother  with  four  children. 
The  usher  provided  a  blanket  for  the 
children  to  sit  upon,  and  then  the 


mother  took  a  seat  quite  a  way  up  the 
aisle.  These  children  behaved  them- 
selves in  splendid  fashion.  I  thought 
how  lovely  it  was  for  a  parent  to  have 
such  confidence  and  faith.  And  then 
I  was  thrilled  when  we  all  stood  to 
sing  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a 
Prophet"  to  see  these  children,  as  if 
they  stood  in  the  Sunday  School  or 
Primary,  sing  with  enthusiasm.  So  deep- 
ly was  I  impressed,  and  so  near  is  it  to 
what  is  now  in  my  heart  to  say,  that  I 
have  taken  the  liberty  to  bring  this  il- 


ELDER  OSCAR 

lustration  here  from  our  very  midst: 
that  of  a  parent  who  had  trained  well 
and  then  had  faith  in  her  children. 

0  this  is  the  day  of  our  salvation — 
now,  not  in  some  great  future  time  but 
now.  This  is  the  day  of  our  salvation! 
These  things  that  are  all  about  us,  this 
is  our  opportunity  to  live,  and  to  prac- 
tise the  glorious  teachings  of  the  gospel. 

One  or  two  things  have  come  to  me 
as  I  see  this  day  of  salvation,  things  that 
perhaps  we  might  do.  May  the  Lord 
bless  me  that  I  may  be  understood  in 
their  presentation.  They  are  very  sim- 
ple things.  The  first  is  to  study  prayer- 
fully the  word  of  the  Lord — study 
prayerfully.  That  is  the  key  to  it — the 
word  of  the  Lord. 

1  went  to  the  North  Jordan  Stake 
quarterly  conference  not  long  ago.  I 
was  a  little  early.  As  I  drove  my  car 
to  the  parking  place,  I  saw  a  young 
man  reading.  As  I  looked  closely,  I 
saw  it  was  the  Book  of  Mormon  that 
he  was  reading,  and  I  walked  quietly  to 
the  car,  and  the  young  man  said,  "Good 
morning,  Brother  Kirkham." 

And  then  his  father  extended  his 
hand  toward  me,  "Well,  is  this  Brother 
Oscar  Kirkham?" 

I  said,  "Yes." 

He  gave  his  name  and  said,  "My 
son  has  just  been  reading  the  Book  of 
Mormon  for  me.  We  read  together 
the  word  of  the  Lord  very  often.  We 
greatly  enjoy  the  Book  of  Mormon." 
He  was  a  blind  man;  for  eight  years  he 
had  been  blind.  And  in  the  conversa- 
tion that  followed  he  told  of  the  many 
things  that  he  was  grateful  to  the  Lord 
for,  one  of  which  I  recall:  "I  have  three 
sons  down  at  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity. They  have  earned  their  way. 
We  are  a  very  happy  family." 

This  is  the  day  of  our  salvation.  That 
brother  will1  meet  the  tomorrow  and 
enjoy  it  to  the  full. 

This  is  the  day  that  we  must  be  mind- 
ful of,  and  devote  our  best  to  its  many 
blessings.  Let  us  study  prayerfully  the 
words  of  God.  The  great  Shakespeare, 
when  asked  by  Bacon,  "Where  did  you 
get  your  inspiration  for  the  great  plays 
which   you   have   written?",  replied: 


A.  KIRKHAM  101 

"From  the  Psalms  of  David."  I  want 
to  read  just  a  few  lines  from  one  of 
these  great  psalms,  the  word  of  God. 
These  lines  have  stood  the  test  of  time. 
They  are  most  worthy  of  our  careful 
reading  and  meditation.  Here  are 
words  that  have  been  read  by  millions 
and  set  to  some  of  the  finest  music  in 
the  world.  You  will  recognize  them  at 
once  but  read  them  again.  There  are 
deep  and  beautiful  inspirations  in  them. 
Just  the  first  few  lines: 

The  Lord  is  my  shepherd;  I  shall  not 
want. 

He  maketh  me  to  lie  down  in  green 
pastures:  he  leadeth  me  beside  still  waters. 
He  restoreth  my  soul.  (Psalm  23:1-3.) 

Alma  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  gave 
these  words  of  counsel  to  his  son  Hela- 
man: 

...  for  I  do  know  that  whosoever  shall 
put  their  trust  in  God  shall  be  supported 
in  their  trials,  and  their  troubles,  and  their 
afflictions,  and  shall  be  lifted  up  at  the  last 
day. 

.  .  .  but  behold  I  say  unto  you,  that  by 
small  and  simple  things  are  great  things 
brought  to  pass;  and  small  means  in  many 
instances  doth  confound  the  wise.  (Alma 
36:3;  37:6.) 

And  from  a  revelation  given  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  on  the  day 
when  the  gospel  was  opened  up  in 
England  to  Thomas  B.  Marsh,  these 
lovely  words  are  taken,  this  glorious 
admonition: 

Be  thou  humble;  and  the  Lord  thy  God 
shall  lead  thee  by  the  hand,  and  give  thee 
answer  to  thy  prayers.  (D.  &  C.  112:10.) 

God  bless  us.  This  one  step  we  can 
take  today,  tomorrow,  and  the  next  day: 
Daily,  prayerfully,  read  the  word  of 
God.  Live  and  enjoy  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Carry  the  word  to  a 
friend  somewhere  that  his  life  may  be 
blessed.  Then  peace  shall  come,  and 
God  will  love  and  bless  us:  Now  is  the 
day  of  our  salvation.  May  the  Lord 
bless  us,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.    Amen.  Jii,:;  o-    -/-  ri-rh 


102 

Sunday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Third  Day 


The  strength  I  need  on  this  occasion, 
my  brothers  and  sisters,  must  come 
from  your  faith  and  prayers  in  my 
behalf.  I  plead  with  you  not  to  forsake 
me.  It  is  very  difficult  for  me  to  talk 
to  a  congregation  which  is  not  within 
the  range  of  my  vision,  but  this  morning 
I  would  like  to  be  oblivious  to  your 
presence  here  in  the  Tabernacle,  and  to 
speak  to  those  of  us  who  live  way  out 
on  the  periphery  of  our  great  Church. 
I  have  been  impressed  with  a  desire  to 
do  this  since  listening  to  the  remarks  of 
President  Stover  last  night.  I  would 
like  to  talk  to  you  people  in  Great 
Britain,  in  the  Scandinavian  countries, 
in  Holland,  in  Germany,  Czecho- 
slovakia, France,  Switzerland,  Austria, 
Palestine,  South  Africa,  the  South  Ameri- 
can nations,  those  who  dwell  within  the 
great  Polynesian  triangle  in  the  Pacific, 
and  to  those  fine  people,  few  in  number, 
in  the  far-off  Orient. 

I  would  like  to  say  to  you  that  I  know 
that  in  your  hearts  this  day  there  is  a 
longing  to  be  here  at  the  hub  of  this 
great  Church,  a  longing  which  you  can- 
not realize;  and  in  a  sense  I  am  pleased 
that  you  do  not  have  that  desire  ful- 
filled. You  are  needed  where  you  are. 
You  know,  as  we  know,  that  this  world 
is  in  need  of  a  new  birth  of  freedom, 
and  that  a  new  birth  of  freedom  cannot 
come  without  a  new  birth  of  righteous- 
ness; and  that  you  in  your  far-flung 
areas,  away  from  this  hub  of  Zion,  are 
the  leaven  of  righteousness.  This  will  be 
the  seed,  we  pray  to  God,  which  will 
bear  fruit  and  bring  back  to  this  de- 
pressed and  sordid  world  the  freedom  for 
which  we  all  so  earnestly  pray. 

You  have  been  great  in  your  contribu- 
tions to  this  nation  and  to  this  Church. 
You  will  read  in  the  reported  sermons 
delivered  from  this  pulpit  that  this  land 
is  choice  above  all  other  lands.  It  is 
only  choice  because  from  your  shores 
have  come  your  great,  your  humble,  and 
your  God-fearing  men  and  women,  and 
they  have  brought  from  your  shores  the 


fundamental  concepts  which  made  it 
possible  for  the  birth  of  the  greatest 
paladium  of  human  liberty  that  was 
ever  written  by  the  hand  of  man — the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States.  And 
I  want  you  to  know  that  greater  than 
that  has  been  your  contribution  to  the 
building  up  of  Zion  and  her  borders. 

You  in  Great  Britain  have  contributed 
to  the  leadership  of  this  Church  as  has 
no  other  nation.  In  the  veins  of  those 
who  have  presided  over  this  modern 
kingdom,  your  blood  courses.  In  Scandi- 
navia, your  contribution  has  been  great 
and  magnificent.  You  have  contributed 
prophets,  seers,  and  revelators.  In  Ger- 
many you  have  contributed  great  edu- 
cators, great  Saints,  and  to  all  of  you 
in  those  faraway  areas,  I  will  say,  great 
is  our  debt  to  you  for  that  which  you 
have  contributed. 

We  encourage  you  to  stay  where  you 
are  because  you  are  needed  there,  where 
the  light  is  going  out,  and  we  say  to 
you:  Stay  close  together;  attend  your 
meetings  regularly,  even  though  your 
numbers  may  be  limited  by  law  to  four 
or  to  two;  stay  together.  Renew  your 
covenants  with  God  by  partaking  of  the 
sacrament,  and  I  tell  you  that  you  can- 
not have  your  lights  darkened  because 
this  work  cannot  be  blacked  out  by  the 
legislation  of  man.  They  may  close 
your  chapels;  they  may  deny  you  the 
right  to  assemble  in  worship;  but  behind 
your  own  doors  you  have  the  priesthood 
of  God;  and  in  your  homes  where  the 
priesthood  of  God  exists,  there  is  Zion. 
And  to  you  whose  lives  are  committed 
to  righteousness,  I  say  unto  you,  You 
are  Zion. 

To  you  in  South  Africa,  you  who  have 
never  had  a  visit  from  one  of  the 
leaders  of  this  Church,  I  know  that  your 
prayers  will  one  day  be  answered.  To 
you  in  South  America  who  are  strug- 
gling to  build  yourselves  into  a  mighty 
people  on  that  great  continent,  which  is 
precious  in  the  eyes  of  God,  I  say,  be 
strong.    To  you  in  the  isles  of  the  sea, 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 


103 


I  say  unto  you,  were  it  not  for  you,  I 
would  not  be  standing  here  this  day. 
To  you  in  New  Zealand,  and  when  I 
speak  to  you  I  speak  to  all  those  who 
dwell  on  those  beautiful  isles,  were  it 
not  for  you,  implanting  within  my  heart 
as  a  seventeen-year-old  boy  your  simple 
faith,  your  knowledge  of  God,  your 
demonstration  that  the  veil  between  God 
and  man  can  be  very,  very  thin,  I 
wouldn't  be  standing  here  today  at  the 
hub  of  Zion,  speaking  to  you  way  down 
under,  in  this  capacity.  This  is  not  my 
calling  alone,  you  good  Maori  people; 
this  is  yours. 

You  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands  who 
have  had  come  to  your  shores  mission- 
aries, one  only  in  his  sixteenth  year,  who 
later  became  the  leader  of  this  Church, 
a  noble  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator:  I 
tell  you  that  on  that  island  of  Maui 
where  he  and  President  George  Q.  Can- 
non had  their  great  theophanies  and 
experiences,  there  is  a  spirit  and  an 
atmosphere,  which  I  have  felt  nowhere 
else  in  all  the  world. 

To  you  in  Tahiti,  who  were  the  first 
in  the  isles  of  the  sea  to  receive  the  gos- 
pel in  this  dispensation,  my  heart  goes 
out.  For  more  than  a  hundred  years  you 
have  been  listening  to  this  message  of 
regeneration.  You  have  contributed  of 
your  tithes  and  your  offerings,  your 
widow's  mite,  and  not  one  of  you  has 
yet  come  to  a  temple  of  God.  You  are 
worthy.  God  will  reward  you  for  your 
faithfulness  and  devotion.  His  princi- 
ples are  eternal,  and  in  his  kingdom 
and  his  presence,  that  which  you  have 
been  denied  in  this  life  will  be  added 
unto  you.  Great  has  been  your  contri- 
bution to  the  building  up  of  this  Church. 

Australia,  the  great  continent  down 
under,  there  where  our  people  are  scat- 
tered over  such  a  vast  area,  how  great 
has  been  your  contribution!  During  the 
war  years,  when  you  were  without  mis- 
sionaries from  Zion,  your  leadership  rose 
up  and  magnificently  carried  on.  And 
there  sits  among  the  councils  of  the 
Church  this  day  one  of  those  mission- 
aries who  went  to  your  shores  many 
years  ago  and  whose  testimony  was 
strengthened  by  you  until  it  became  an 


anchor  to  his  faith.  God  bless  you  for 
this  great  contribution. 

You  in  faraway  Japan  were  left  alone 
for  many  years,  but  there  had  been  im- 
planted in  your  hearts  a  testimony  of  the 
restored  gospel,  and  when  the  way  was 
opened  up  for  the  missionaries  to  return 
to  you,  they  found  you,  though  small  in 
number  and  in  membership,  still  faith- 
ful and  devoted  and  loyal.  You  at 
Hiroshima,  where  was  felt  the  death 
blow  of  the  first  atom  bomb,  and  where 
soon  after  you  raised  the  sign  which 
should  be  an  ensign  unto  the  world,  not 
written  in  your  language,  but  in  the 
language  which  all  nations  understand, 
the  English  language,  "No  more  Hiro- 
shimas."  If  all  men  could  write  in  their 
hearts  the  words  of  that  sign  which 
now  stands  over  the  place  where  that 
atom  bomb  exploded,  peace  would  re- 
turn to  the  earth  and  dwell  regnant  in 
the  hearts  of  all  men.  You  have  con- 
tributed much  to  the  building  up  of  this 
kingdom  and  could  you  hear  my  words, 
I  could  tell  you  that  there  sits  before 
me  now  one  who  is  at  the  head  of  one 
of  our  great  institutions  of  learning  who 
spent  a  number  of  years  among  you, 
who  partook  of  your  spirit,  who  knows 
you  as  an  industrious  people,  who  knows 
that  in  your  land,  there  are  no  weeds; 
and  I  know  that  much  that  actuates 
him  in  his  great  purpose  in  instilling 
within  the  hearts  and  souls  of  the  young- 
sters of  this  community,  a  knowledge  of 
things  which  are  true,  he  received  under 
your  influence. 

To  you  in  faraway  China  I  say:  Keep 
the  faith,  be  valiant;  you  will  not  be 
forgotten,  and  one  day  the  missionaries 
will  return  to  you.  Yours  is  a  light 
shining  in  darkness.  Keep  it  burning, 
and  the  Father  of  us  all  will  bless  you. 

God  bless  you  people  out  in  these 
areas  of  the  earth.  And  I  testify  to  you 
that  much  strength  comes  from  you  to 
us,  and  if  you  remain  strong  where  you 
are,  we  will  not  become  weak  here  at 
the  hub.  In  your  hours  of  need,  we  will 
do  our  best.  We  will  keep  our  store- 
houses bulging  with  the  necessities  of 
life,  and  when  you  need  them,  the 
freight  cars  will  be  loaded,  and  the 


104 

Sunday,  April  6 

ships'  bottoms  will  be  filled,  and  we 
will  send  that  over  to  you  which  you 
need.  And  we  say  to  you,  and  I  speak 
for  all,  that  where  there  is  no  power, 
where  there  are  no  facilities,  where 
there  is  no  program  to  save  you  ma- 
terially as  well  as  spiritually,  there  is 
no  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  We 
will  not  fail  you  spiritually  nor  mate- 
rially. 

And  I  leave  my  witness  with  you  in 
all  of  your  fair  lands,  that  I  know  that 
God  loves  you.  He  will  attend  you  and 
that  which  you  do  not  hear  as  we  speak 
in  our  great  conferences  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  you  do  hear  in  your  humble  cot- 
tage meetings,  wherever  they  may  be,  or 
in  your  rented  halls  which  may  reek 
with  stale  tobacco  smoke,  and  which 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

have  been  cleared  of  empty  flasks  and 
beer  bottles  the  night  before.  Those 
same  testimonies  you  bear,  and  I  believe 
that  I  can  say  to  you  in  behalf  of  most 
of  my  brethren  that  that  which  we  have 
experienced  in  life  which  makes  it  pos- 
sible for  us  to  stand  here  and  address 
you  as  special  witnesses,  we  received  in 
our  associations  with  you  as  young  mis- 
sionaries. And  again  to  you  in  New 
Zealand  I  say:  Because  of  you,  because 
of  your  kindliness,  your  humility,  your 
patience,  your  great  faith,  I  can  stand 
here  and  say  that  I  know  that  God  lives, 
and  because  of  you,  I  am  a  special  wit- 
ness of  his  Son.  All  power  be  to  you, 
and  God  bless  you  forever,  and  bless  us 
all,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


1am  very  grateful,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  for  the  opportunity  of  meet- 
ing with  you  in  general  conference 
once  again.  I  always  receive  a  great  uplift 
from  these  conferences.  I  would  like 
to  express  appreciation,  too,  for  the 
blessing  that  I  receive  in  going  to  your 
stakes  Sunday  after  Sunday,  meeting 
you  wonderful  people  who  strengthen 
my  faith  and  my  testimony  and  help 
me  to  accomplish  the  work  which  is 
assigned  to  me. 

I  am  grateful  beyond  words  for  this 
great  Church,  and  for  the  testimony  I 
have  of- the  divinity  of  this  work.  I  am 
grateful  for  the  privilege  of  doing  a 
little  in  this  Church,  so  that  I  may  help 
to  work .  out  my  salvation  and  help 
others  to  work  out  theirs. 

This  morning  once  again  I  would  like 
to  address  the  young  people  of  the 
Church.  I  love  the  young  people.  I  am 
thrilled  with  their  faith  and  their  de- 
votion,    i  ■     .  ;;!:  , 

Last  June  I  had  the 'privilege  of  stand- 
ing here,  and  talking  with  the  young 
people  who  .came  to i  the  M.I.A.  con- 
ference. I  told  them  about  a  little 
family  up  in  Canada,  which  had  joined 
the  Churchy  and  as  a  .result  had  suf- 


fered great  persecution.  To  bolster  their 
courage,  this  little  family  rewrote  the 
words  to  a  hymn  they  used  to  sing,  and 
made  one  of  the  verses  go  like  this: 

Dare  to  be  a  Mormon; 
Dare  to  stand  alone; 
Dare  to  have  a  purpose  firm; 
Dare  to  make  it  known! 

I  invited  the  young  people  who  were 
here  last  June  to  develop  the  same  kind 
of  courage  held  by  this  wonderful 
Canadian  family,  and  in  the  face  of  all 
forms  of  opposition  to  stand  firm  and 
true  to  the  faith. 

That  opposition  might  come  in  various 
forms.  It  might  be  persecution,  as  in 
the  case  of  that  Canadian  family.  It 
might  be  temptations,  or  it  might  come 
in  the  form  of  teachings  from  people 
who  would  like  to  destroy  your  faith. 

When  those  temptations  or  those 
persecutions  or  those  false  teachings 
come,  will  you  have  the  courage  to  be 
real  Latter-day  Saints,  to  have  a  pur- 
pose firm,  and  to  stand  by  it? 

A  week  ago  a  young  man  told  me 
about  the  trial  that  came  to  him  in 
school.  Some  of  the  teachings  he  re- 
ceived from  an  instructor"  v^ho  had  no 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


105 


faith  appeared  to  have  weakened  the 
faith  of  this  young  man. 

I  am  always  sorry  when  I  hear  about 
teachers  in  our  public  schools  who  try  to 
destroy  the  faith  of  our  young  people. 
It  always  grieves  me  to  hear  of  in- 
stances like  this.  I  know  that  the  great 
majority  of  the  schoolteachers,  them- 
selves, are  wonderful  people;  they  are 
believers  in  God.  Many  of  them  are 
devoted  students  of  the  scriptures.  But 
unfortunately,  occasionally,  we  find  a 
teacher,  whether  in  the  field  of  philos- 
ophy or  science,  who  seems  to  take  it 
upon  himself  to  destroy  the  faith  of 
our  young  people. 

I  appeal  to  our  young  folk  to  realize 
that  true  science  is  not  anti-religion, 
and  that  there  is  no  unity  among  the 
scientists  with  respect  to  many  things 
now  being  taught  by  some  instructors 
who  interpret  them  to  mean  that  there 
is  no  God.  Science  has  never  come  to 
a  unity  of  understanding  on  that  point, 
young  people,  so  do  not  be  disturbed  by 
the  godless  teachings  you  may  get  in 
the  classroom. 

I  would  like  you  to  know  that  some 
of  the  great  scientists,  many  of  them,  in 
fact,  are  devoted  believers  in  God,  and 
some  of  them  have  declared  that  atheism 
has  no  place  among  the  true  scientists. 
.  I  was  glad  to  read  not  long  ago  in 
This  Week  Magazine,  an  article  by 
Dr.  Arthur  H.  Compton,  a  Nobel  prize 
winner,  who  said  this: 

Few  scientific  men  today  defend  the 
atheistic  attitude.  Never  yet  has  there  been 
adequate  refutation  of  the  argument  that 
design  in  the  universe  presumes  an  intelli- 
gence. Evidence  points  to  the  existence 
of  a  Beginner,  a  Creator  of  the  universe. 
A  physicist's  studies  lead  him  to  believe 
this  Creator  to  be  an  intelligent  Being.  The 
intelligent  God  has  an  interest  in  and  re- 
lationship to  man,  and  it  is  reasonable  to 
assume  that  he  would  be  interested  in 
creating  a  being  intelligent  like  himself. 

I  was  glad  to  get  a  copy  of  a  little 
pamphlet  entitled,  "A  Scientist  Confesses 
His  Faith,"  written  by  Dr.  Robert  A. 
Millikan.  Among  other  things  in  that 
little  pamphlet,  Dr.  Millikan  says: 


I  think  you  will  understand  me  when  I 
say  that  I  have  never  known  a  thinking 
man  who  did  not  believe  in  God. 

In  speaking  of  the  controversy  between 
science  and  religion,  Dr.  Millikan  said 
something  else  which  I  believe,  young 
people,  you  should  remember  when 
some  of  these  faithless,  godless  teachers 
who  are  trying  to  destroy  your  religion, 
talk  to  you  in  your  classrooms.  Said 
Dr.  Millikan: 

I  am  not  going  to  place  the  whole  blame 
for  the  existence  of  this  controversy  upon 
misguided  leaders  of  religion.  The  re- 
sponsibility is  a  divided  one,  for  science 
is  just  as  often  misrepresented  as  is  religion 
by  men  of  little  vision,  of  no  appreciation 
of  its  limitations,  and  of  imperfect  compre- 
hension of  the  real  role  which  it  plays  in 
human  life,  by  men  who  lose  sight  of  all 
spiritual  values  and  therefore  exert  an  in- 
fluence upon  youth  which  is  unsettling, 
irreligious,  and  essentially  immoral.  I  am 
ready  to  admit  that  it  is  quite  as  much 
because  of  the  existence  of  scientists  of 
that  type  as  of  their  counterparts  in  the 
field  of  religion,  that  the  fundamental  con- 
troversy has  flared  up  today,  and  it  is  high 
time  that  scientists  recognize  their  share  of 
the  responsibility,  and  take  such  steps  as 
they  can  to  remove  their  share  of  the 
cause. 

And  then  Dr.  Millikan  quotes  Lord 
Kelvin  as  saying: 

I  believe  that  the  more  thoroughly  science 
is  studied,  the  further  does  it  take  us  away 
from  anything  comparable  to  atheism.  If 
you  think  strongly  enough,  you  will  be 
forced  by  science  to  a  belief  in  God,  which 
is  the  foundation  of  all  religion. 

I  was  interested  to  note  that  Lord 
Kelvin's  biographer  said  this: 

It  pained  him  [that  is,  Lord  Kelvin],  to 
hear  crudely  atheistic  views  expressed  by 
young  men  who  never  had  known  the 
deeper  side  of  existence. 

Further  to  quote  Dr.  Millikan: 

If  I  am  accused  of  calling  merely  on  the 
testimony  of  the  past,  on  the  thinking 
which  preceded  the  advent  of  this  twentieth 
century  in  which  we  live,  I  can  bring  the 
evidence  strictly  up  to  date  by  asking  you 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  6 

to  name  the  dozen  most  outstanding  scien- 
tists in  America  today,  and  then  showing 
you  that  the  great  majority  of  them  will 
bear  testimony,  not  only  to  the  complete 
lack  of  antagonism  between  the  fields  of 
science  and  of  religion,  but  to  their  own 
fundamental  religious  convictions. 

So  young  people,  when  you  are  faced 
in  your  classrooms  by  faithless  men  who 
stand  before  you  and  try  to  destroy 
your  faith,  think  of  what  these  great 
scientists  have  said.  Remember  that 
even  Dr.  Millikan  says  that  you  can 
name  the  top  scientists  of  the  world,  and 
he  will  show  you  that  most  of  those 
men  not  only  believe  in  God  but  also 
bear  testimony  of  it. 

I  tell  you  there  is  nothing  outmoded 
about  faith  in  God,  and  when  you 
go  to  school,  you  do  not  need  to  believe 
everything  that  is  told  you  by  these 
faithless  men,  whether  in  philosophy  or 
science  classes.  You  do  not  need  to 
accept  their  evidence  alone.  And  if  you 
are  disturbed  by  their  persistence  in 
teaching  you  these  false  things,  just 
ask  yourself  the  question:  Which  is  the 
greater  scientist,  your  instructor  or  Dr. 
Robert  A.  Millikan?  Ask  yourself,  who 
is  the  greater  scholar,  your  instructor 
or  Lord  Kelvin?  Ask  yourself,  who  is 
the  greater  authority,  your  instructor 
or  Dr.  Arthur  H.  Compton,  or  some  of 
the  other  scientists  who  give  the  lie  to 
the  teachings  of  these  men  who  say 
there  is  no  God. 

I  shall  never  forget  when  I  was  in  a 
sociology  class  I  saw  the  professor,  a 
short,  bald-headed,  bewhiskered  man, 
stand  there  in  front  of  our  class  and 
actually  defy  us  to  believe  in  God.  He 
defied  us  to  believe  in  a  special  crea- 
tion or  that  man  is  a  child  of  God. 

I  have  always  understood  that  it  was 
against  the  law  to  discuss  religion  in 
the  schools.  But  these  men  apparently 
claim  academic  privilege  of  some  kind, 
academic  freedom,  I  think  they  call  it, 
in  taking  the  right  to  destroy  the  very 
faith  which  the  law  prohibits  us  from 
teaching  in  the  public  schools.  And 
when  they  do  it,  I  think  they  are  in 
violation  of  the  spirit  of  the  law,  just 


Third  Day 

as  much  as  if  they  were  teaching  re- 
ligion. Young  people,  remember  the 
great  men  of  the  world  believe  in  God. 

We  do  not  get  our  faith  from  science, 
however,  and  I  hope  you  will  never 
take  the  position  that  we  must  even 
seriously  regard  what  science  says  about 
religion.  Faith  comes  by  revelation.  No 
matter  what  science  might  do  to  pro- 
mote religious  faith,  it  can  never  save 
a  man.  Salvation  comes  through  reve- 
lation and  the  power  of  God  restored  to 
men  in  these  last  days.  And  that  revela- 
tion is  available.  That  revelation  has 
come.  The  power  of  God  and  his 
priesthood  are  now  here  among  men, 
and  salvation  comes  through  them. 

How  much  do  you  know  about  the 
revelations  of  God  to  man?  When 
Brother  Kirkham  stood  here  and  asked 
you  to  study  the  scripture  prayerfully, 
I  was  glad  for  the  way  he  talked.  I 
also  appeal  to  you  to  make  an  investi- 
gation for  yourself  about  the  gospel  of 
Christ.  I  ask  you  to  be  a  part  of  this 
day  of  study  and  research,  by  making 
a  study  and  research  of  your  own  re- 
ligion. Do  not  be  ignorant  of  what 
your  own  Church  teaches.  The  glory 
of  God  is  intelligence;  there  is  no  salva- 
tion in  ignorance. 

When  you  go  to  school,  you  study 
mathematics  or  chemistry  or  some 
foreign  language.  You  do  not  just  take 
the  teacher's  word  for  what  is  given 
there.  When  you  study  mathematics, 
you  actually  work  out  the  equations 
and  know  by  working  them  out  that 
they  are  true.  And  when  you  study 
chemistry,  you  learn  about  the  truths 
of  that  subject  by  actually  performing 
the  experiments  that  are  given  to  you, 
and  by  performing  them  you  discover 
the  truth  of  the  principles  you  are 
taught. 

But  if  you  went  to  school  all  your 
life  and  did  not  study  mathematics, 
you  would  never  know  anything  about 
that  subject,  would  you?  You  might  go 
to  school  all  your  life  and  never  learn 
one  thing  about  chemistry,  unless  you 
studied  chemistry.  And  you  can  be  in 
this  Church  all  your  life,  and  never 


ELDER  MARK 

know  what  this  Church  teaches  unless 
you  study  it. 

Will  you  not  take  the  advice  of 
Brother  Kirkham  and  study  your  own 
religion?  Open  the  pages  of  the  Bible; 
read  there  of  the  hand  dealings  of  God 
to  man.  Read  there  of  the  life  of  the 
Savior.  Learn  of  his  teachings.  He 
actually  was  here  on  the  earth,  and  he 
taught  men  the  principles  about  which 
you  have  heard  today  and  in  the  pre- 
ceding days  of  this  conference. 

And  read  the  Book  of  Mormon.  Study 
its  pages.  Know  what  is  inside  the 
covers  of  that  great  book.  And  will 
you  study  also  the  revelations  that  are 
given  in  that  very  small  but  great  book, 
The  Pearl  of  Great  Price?  It  is  almost 
unknown  among  many  people,  and  yet 
it  contains  some  of  the  greatest  revela- 
tions of  God  to  man. 

And  then,  young  people,  will  you 
really  make  a  study  of  the  life  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  read  the 
revelations  that  God  gave  to  him?  Dis- 
cover Joseph  Smith.  Find  out  what 
motivated  him.  Be  thrilled  with  the 
rest  of  us  as  you  read  the  story  of  his 
going  into  the  woods  and  there  kneeling 
down  and  asking  for  light;  and  in  re- 
sponse to  that  prayer  seeing  the  Father 
and  the  Son  standing  there  before  him, 
not  in  some  dream,  but  in  a  real  ex- 
perience. 

And  then  read  of  his  visits  with  the 
Angel  Moroni,  a  personage  who  came 
back  from  the  dead  and  ministered  to 
Joseph  Smith,  gave  him  direction,  and 
helped  him  in  the  production  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  And  then  read  the 
story  of  Oliver  Cowdery  and  Joseph 
Smith  who  received  ministrations  from 
John  the  Baptist,  and  the  Apostles, 
Peter,  James,  and  John. 

Read  the  story  of  these  two  men  as 
they  knelt  in  the  Kirtland  Temple  in 
prayer,  and  there  suddenly  came  before 
them  a  glorious  vision.  In  the  Kirtland 
Temple,  here  in  the  United  States  of 
America,  stood  the  Savior,  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world.  They  saw  him  and 
talked  with  him.  That  one  experience 
was  worth  more  than  all  the  philoso- 


E.  PETERSEN  107 

phies  and  scientific  theories  that  men 
have  produced  in  all  time.  They  saw 
him;  they  heard  his  voice;  they  knew 
that  he  lived;  and  they  did  not  have 
to  take  anybody  else's  ideas  nor 
hypotheses  pertaining  to  it. 

After  his  appearance  there  came  other 
glorious  personages,  Elijah,  Moses,  Elias. 
Why,  this  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness 
of  Times  is  so  filled  with  actual  ex- 
periences which  men  have  had  with 
God,  and  with  the  testimonies  of  those 
men,  that  you  do  not  need  to  doubt. 
You  may  know  for  yourself  as  well, 
because  as  you  study  these  things,  and 
as  you  work  in  the  Church,  if  you  will 
pray,  as  Brother  Kirkham  asked  of  you, 
then  the  Lord  will  bless  you  with  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth  of  these  things. 
You  will  receive  a  testimony,  and  you 
will  know  for  yourself  that  God  does 
live,  that  Mormonism  is  true,  that  the 
Savior  has  a  modern  ministry,  and  that 
we  are  a  part  of  it. 

Dare  to  be  a  Mormon, 
Dare  to  stand  alone, 
Dare  to  have  a  purpose  firm, 
Dare  to  make  it  known. 

I  humbly  pray  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen,  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us. 

We  repeat  the  welcome  extended  to 
our  visitors,  State  officials,  and  others, 
as  expressed  at  the  opening  of  this  meet- 
ing. I  am  pleased  to  note  in  the  audience 
as  I  have  looked  over  it,  the  presence 
of  a  number  of  educators,  the  State 
Superintendent  of  Schools,  President  and 
Deans  from  the  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity, Ricks  College,  members  of  the 
Church  Department  of  Education,  in- 
cluding Directors  of  Institutes  and 
Seminaries.  I  wish  specifically  to  men- 
tion and  welcome  President  Olpin  of 
the  University  of  Utah,  Dr.  Madsen, 
President  of  the  Utah  State  Agricultural 
College,  the  President  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University,  the  President  of  the 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  6 

Branch  Agricultural  College,  the  Presi- 
dent of  Weber  College.  We  have  a  feel- 
ing of  fellowship  with  these  educators. 

The  closing  song  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  will  be,  "The  Great  Awakening." 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Charles  B.  Richmond,  formerly 
president  of  the  Australian  Mission. 

Following  the  prayer  this  conference 


Third  Day 

will  be  adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this 
afternoon. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  "The 
Great  Awakening,"  after  which  Elder 
Charles  B.  Richmond,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  Australian  Mission,  offered 
the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


THIRD  DAY 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  concluding  session  of  the  con- 
ference was  held  at  2:00  p.m.,  Sunday, 
April  6. 

Again  the  various  buildings  were 
crowded  to  capacity:  The  Tabernacle, 
the  Assembly  Hall,  and  Barratt  Hall, 
and  again  thousands  assembled  on  the 
Tabernacle  grounds  to  listen  to  the  pro- 
ceedings of  the  conference. 

President  McKay  opened  the  meeting 
promptly  at  2:00  p.m. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Yesterday  we  received  a  very  sweet 
and  impressive  message  from  a  family 
of  Saints  in  Hong  Kong,  China.  They 
ordered  to  be  sent  to  you  and  the  Church 
this  beautiful  bouquet  of  flowers — the 
hydrangeas  that  you  see  here  on  the 
railing. 

They  are  from  the  Ko  family  and  Mrs. 
Joyce  Aher,  Chinese  members  formerly 
of  Hong  Kong,  China.  They  sent  it  to 
show  their  love  and  appreciation  for 
our  having  sent  the  missionaries  to 
China.  We  thank  them,  and  send  to 
them  through  President  Robertson  and 
Sister  Robertson,  and  others,  who  are 
laboring  for  their  welfare,  our  love  and 
blessings. 

This  is  the  concluding  session  of  the 
122nd  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 


of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We 
are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square. 

The  services  are  being  broadcast  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall, 
over  a  loudspeaking  system  and  by  tele- 
vision, and  as  heretofore,  all  the  pro- 
ceedings have  been  broadcast  over  the 
stations  named  in  the  opening  session 
of  the  Conference. 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 
rendered  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  under 
the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall, 
with  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 
We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus  sing- 
ing, "Seek  Thy  God,"  Brother  Cornwall 
conducting. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Thomas  W.  Richards,  formerly 
president  of  the  East  Central  States 
Mission. 


The  opening  musical  selection  was 
by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  male  chorus, 
"Seek  Thy  God."' 

Elder  Thomas  W.  Richards,  formerly 
president  of  the  East  Central  States 
Mission,  offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  ladies  chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  then  sang,  "My  Heart  Ever  Faith- 
ful." 


President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency  pre- 
sented for  the  vote  of  the  people  the  General  Authorities,  General  Officers,  and 
General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church,  and  they  were  unanimously  sustained 
by  those  present.  The  list  as  presented  and  sustained  is  as  follows: 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED  109 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer,  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Stephen  L  Richards,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Mark  E.  Petersen 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Matthew  Cowley 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Henry  D.  Moyle 

Harold  B.  Lee  Delbert  Leon  Stapley 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Marion  G.  Romney 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  LeGrand  Richards 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  The  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  the 
Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revel ators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Stayner  Richards 

Clifford  E.  Young  ElRay  L.  Christiansen 

Alma  Sonne  John  Longden 


George  Q.  Morris 


Trustee-in-Trust 


David  O.  McKay 

As  Trustee-in- Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Seymour  Dilworth  Young 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Milton  R.  Hunter 

Richard  L.  Evans  Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

Presiding  Bishopric 

Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presiding  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  First  Counselor 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A  William  Lund  as  Assistant 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  6  Third  Day 

Church  Board  of  Education 

David  O.  McKay  Ezra  Taft  Benson 

Stephen  L  Richards  Mark  E.  Petersen 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Matthew  Cowley 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Henry  D.  Moyle 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Delbert  Leon  Stapley 

Albert  E.  Bowen  LeGrand  Richards 

Harold  B.  Lee  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Franklin  L.  West 

Commissioner  of  Education 

Franklin  L.  West 

Seminary  Supervisors 

J.  Karl  Wood 
Joy  F.  Dunyon 

Auditing  and  Finance  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Harold  H.  Bennett 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor 

Richard  P.  Condie,  Assitant  Conductor 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner      Frank  W.  Asper 
Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisors 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Clifford  E.  Young 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Alma  Sonne 

Harold  B.  Lee  John  Longden 

Henry  D.  Moyle  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Matthew  Cowley  Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

Delbert  L.  Stapley  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

Marion  G.  Romney  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

LeGrand  Richards  Carl  W.  Buehner 

Thomas  E.  McKay 

General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

General  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 
Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 
Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 
Paul  C  Child  Lorenzo  H.  Hatch 

T.  C.  Stayner  . '     Walter  Dansie 

Mark  B.  Garff  LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 

Leonard  E.  Adams  A.  Reed  Halversen 

J.  Leonard  Love  Henry  C.  Jorgensen 

W.  T.  Lawrence 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS  111 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Relief  Society 
Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Velma  N.  Simonsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 
George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 
A.  Hamer  Reiser,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
David  Lawrence  McKay,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Elbert  R.  Curtis,  General  Superintendent 
A.  Walter  Stevenson,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
David  S.  King,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Bertha  S.  Reeder,  President 
Emily  H.  Bennett,  First  Counselor 
LaRue  C.  Longden,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

Primary  Association 

LaVern  W.  Parmley,  President 
Arta  M.  Hale,  First  Counselor 
Florence  H.  Richards,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 


President  David  O.  McKay:  of  the  Church  for  the  sustaining  vote 

of  the  General  Conference,  and  he  re- 
Elder  Richards,  will  you  take  your  ports  all  voting  in  the  affirmative. 

place  here  in  the  Council.  We  shall  be  pleased  now  to  hear 

TTr  .       .     ,      ,       •  i      t  -r.  from  Elder  LeGrand  Richards,  whom 

We  have  just  heard  President  J.  Reu-  you  have  just  sustained  as  a  member 

ben  Clark,  Jr.,  of  the  First  Presidency  0f  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

present  the  General  Authorities,  General        Will  Elder  Buehner  please  take  his 

Officers,  and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  place  beside  Bishop  Wirthlin. 

ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I suppose  only  the  men  on  this  stand  as  the  Presiding  Bishop  of  this  Church, 

can  know  what  has  gone  through  my  He  and  I  have  labored  side  by  side  for 

mind  and  my  heart  since  President  fourteen  years,  and  I  doubt  if  any  two 

McKay  called  me  to  his  office  following  men  have  ever  been  closer  to  each  other 

the  morning  meeting.  than  we  have  been.    He  is  a  noble 

I  first  want  to  tell  you  that  I  am  proud  character,  and  he  is  as  true  and  loyal 

that  Brother  Wirthlin  has  been  called  to  this  Church  as:  any  man  I  have  ever 


112 

Sunday,  April  6 

met.  If  we  ever  questioned  the  instruc- 
tion of  the  brethren,  he  would  say, 
"Well,  you  know,  if  the  brethren  were 
to  tell  us  to  put  the  Presiding  Bishop's 
Office  up  on  Ensign  Peak,  there  it  would 
go."  That  is  the  kind  of  faith  he  has. 

And  I  have  learned  to  love  Brother 
Isaacson  so  much  in  these  few  years, 
five  and  a  half  years,  that  he  has  served 
as  my  counselor,  and  I  am  so  happy 
that  Brother  Wirthlin  saw  fit  to  choose 
him  to  stand  by  his  side. 

And  I  love  Brother  Buehner.  I  have 
only  been  out  with  him  once  or  twice, 
but  I  think  they  have  made  a  wonder- 
ful choice. 

Now  I  want  to  pay  a  tribute  of  re- 
spect and  an  expression  of  deep  apprecia- 
tion to  the  employees  of  the  Presiding 
Bishop's  office.  We  have  some  won- 
derful help  there,  and  they  have  been 
so  loyal  and  willing  to  do  anything  we 
have  ever  asked  them  to  do.  I  should 
like  to  name  them,  but  the  list  would 
be  too  long.  God  bless  them  in  their 
further  responsibilities  in  that  office. 

I  cannot  find  words  to  express  what 
is  in  my  heart.  I  think  of  what  Brother 
Alonzo  Hinckley  said  when  he  stood 
here  in  a  similar  position  and  said, 
"My  soul  is  subdued."  I  do  not  know 
what  it  takes  to  subdue  the  soul  of  a 
man,  but  for  the  past  two  hours,  I  have 
been  trying  to  figure  out  how  I  could 
measure  up  and  not  disappoint  you 
people,  and  not  disappoint  the  Lord. 

How  grateful  I  feel  to  the  brethren, 
President  McKay  and  his  Counselors, 
that  they  have  enough  confidence  in 
me  to  nominate  me  for  this  position, 
and  that  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve, 
knowing  that  I  should  become  one  of 
them,  sustained  them  in  the  nomina- 
tion. 

And  I  thank  you  for  your  sustaining 
vote  here  this  day,  and  I  pledge  you  all 
the  strength  and  ability  that  the  Lord 
has  given  me  to  continue  to  help  build 
up  his  kingdom  on  the  earth. 

I  thank  God  for  the  opportunities 
that  I  have  enjoyed  of  working  among 
you,  and  in  his  Church,  the  missions 
that  I  have  been  able  to  fill,  and  the 
other  sundry  odd  jobs,  because  I  truly 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

love  the  work  more  than  anything  else 
in  this  world,  and  I  know  it  is  true.  I 
could  live  better  without  the  limbs  of 
my  body  than  I  could  without  the 
testimony  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

When  I  returned  from  my  first  mis- 
sion, I  was  called  to  speak  in  my  ward. 
I  told  the  Saints  that  the  greatest  desire 
I  had  in  my  heart  was  that  I  might  be 
able  so  to  live  now  that  I  was  home, 
that  I  could  enjoy  the  same  spirit  I 
had  enjoyed  in  the  mission  field.  And 
I  added,  I  hope  the  Lord  will  send  me 
on  a  mission  just  often  enough  so  I 
can  keep  that  spirit.  Maybe  that  is 
the  reason  I  filled  four  missions.  I 
thought  when  I  got  in  the  bishop's 
office,  I  would  never  get  another,  but 
who  knows  what  might  happen  now? 

I  have  loved  my  work  with  the  youth 
of  this  Church,  and  with  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood,  and  for  a  time  we  had  the 
girls'  program.  And  we  have  lived  to 
see  some  real  achievement  in  the  work 
with  these  boys.  When  we  came  into 
the  office  fourteen  years  ago,  many  a 
ward  was  still  using  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  in  the  administration  of  the 
sacrament.  We  tried  to  get  the  Standard 
Quorum  Award  going.  We  could  hardly 
get  a  quorum  to  get  twenty-five  percent 
of  the  boys  to  attend  sacrament  meet- 
ing. And  now  the  average  for  the 
entire  Church  is  forty-one  percent.  It 
is  not  much  to  boast  about,  but  it  is 
up  a  long  way  to  what  it  was. 

And  the  girls  were  up  to  fifty-five  per- 
cent, so  they  have  to  help  the  boys  along 
a  little,  or  the  boys  will  not  be  worth 
their  marrying  a  little  later  on  when 
they  want  companions. 

The  growth  of  the  Church  during 
these  fourteen  years  has  been  tremen- 
dous. I  have  been  privileged  to  travel 
around  the  stakes  of  Zion,  and  it  seems 
to  me  that  every  conference  I  attend, 
they  say  it  is  the  largest  crowd  they 
have  ever  had.  The  way  the  brethren 
have  been  dividing  the  wards  and  stakes 
is  indicative  of  the  growth  of  the  Church. 

In  tribute  to  the  faithfulness  and  the 
integrity  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  I  want 
to  give  you  two  or  three  figures  of  what 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


113 


has  happened  since  we  came  into  the 
Presiding  Bishop's  office. 

The  membership  of  the  Church  in 
that  time  has  increased  46.1  percent. 

The  tithes  of  the  Church  have  in  the 
same  length  of  time  increased  653.3 
percent. 

Forty-six  percent  increase  in  member- 
ship, 653.3  percent  increase  in  tithing, 
and  then  you  say  the  Latter-day  Saints 
do  not  have  faith. 

And  then  you  add  to  that  what  the 
brethren  have  already  reported  during 
this  conference  of  the  gifts  of  the  Saints 
that  are  not  counted  as  tithes,  and  I  say 
the  Saints  are  wonderful.  God  bless 
them  everywhere  for  their  faith  and 
for  their  integrity. 

I  never  come  home  from  a  stake  con- 
ference but  what  I  say  to  my  wife, 
"You  just  have  to  get  out  in  this  Church 
to  know  the  power  of  the  Lord  that  is 
in  it."  How  anyone  in  the  world  could 
be  familiar  with  the  Church  and  what 
it  is  doing,  and  the  spirit  and  the  power 
that  is  in  it,  and  think  that  it  comes 
from  man!  He  would  have  to  be  a 
very  bright  man,  wouldn't  he? 

The  fast  offerings  in:  that  time  in- 
creased 230  percent.  There  have  been 
65  new  stakes  of  Zion  added;  458  wards, 
and  73  new  independent  branches. 

I  thought  these  figures  might  interest 
you  and  show  that  the  Saints  are  com- 
ing along  pretty  well. 

Now,  brothers  and  sisters,  if  there  is 
anything  that  I  am  sure  of,  more  than 
anything  else  in  the  world,  it  is  that 
this  work  is  divine.  It  is  not  the  work 
of  man.  It  is  the  work  of  God,  the 
Eternal  Father,  and  his  power  is  in  it, 
and  I  tell  you  in  all  sincerity  that  the 
Holy  Ghost,  the  Comforter  that  the 
Savior  promised  to  send  to  guide  us  in 
all  truth  and  bring  things  to  our  re- 
membrance, is  just  as  much  a  reality 
to  me  and  just  as  necessary  for  our  well- 
being  as  the  sun  that  shines  in  the 
heavens  is  to  the  seed  that  is  sown  in 
the  ground,  and  the  plants  as  they 
germinate  arid  come  forth.  I  know  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  in  this 
Church.      ;  L, 

When  the  Lord  sent  his  servants  out 


in  this  day,  he  told  them  they  were  not 
going  to  be  taught  of  men,  but  to  teach 
that  which  he  would  give  unto  them 
by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  I  do 
not  know  very  much  about  the  philoso- 
phies of  men,  but  I  know  that  God 
created  the  feelings  of  the  human  heart 
and  the  human  soul,  and  I  know  that 
God  has  a  way  of  bringing  joy  and 
happiness  into  the  souls  of  men,  when 
they  seek  after  him,  and  when  they 
enjoy  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  far 
beyond  anything  that  men  can  pur- 
chase with  their  money. 

I  have  been  in  homes  of  rich  people. 
I  have  never  seen  any  tears  of  joy  shed 
because  of  anything  they  could  purchase 
with  their  money,  but  I  have  been  in 
groups  of  missionaries  and  groups  of 
Saints,  when  for  hours  at  a  time  there 
was  not  a  dry  eye  there;  just  because 
the  spirit  of  God  was  there.  Like 
Nephi  of  old  said, 

He  [the  Lord]  hath  filled  me  with  his 
love,  even  unto  the  consuming  of  my  flesh. 
(See  II  Nephi  4:21.) 

I  feel  sorry  for  Latter-day  Saints  if 
they  have  never  felt  that  power,  and 
that  blessing,  unto  almost  the  con- 
sumption of  their  flesh. 

That  is  what  Paul  meant  when  he 
said  of  those  who  have  tasted  of  the 
power  of  the  world  to  come,  and  then 
fallen  away,  it  is  impossible  to  renew 
them  again  to  repentance,  which  gave 
me  to  understand  that  Paul  understood 
that  in  this  life,  men  could  taste  of 
the  powers  of  the  world  to  come.  Surely 
that  was  what  Paul  experienced  when 
he  stood  before  Festus  and  Agrippa, 
there  in  chains  as  he  was,  and  bore 
witness  of  the  ministration  and  the 
appearance  of  the  Savior  to  him  on  the. 
way  to.  Damascus,  how  he  had  seen 
the  light,  and  heard  the  Voice  saying, 

.  .  .  Saul,  Saul,  why  persecutest  thou  me? 
...  it  is  hard  for  thee  to  kick  against  the 
pricks.  (Acts  9:4-5.)    ■  -  -  .  ■, 

And  after  Festus  and  Agrippa  had 
listened,  Festus  said, 

Paul,  thou  art  beside  thyself;  much  learn-1 
ing  doth  make  thee  mad.  .;   ,    ,  t 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  6 

But  he  said,  I  am  not  mad,  most  noble 
Festus;  but  speak  forth  the  words  of  truth 
and  soberness.  .  .  . 

Then  Agrippa  said  unto  Paul,  Almost 
thou  persuadest  me  to  be  a  Christian. 
{Ibid.,  26:24-28.) 

And  there  he  was  in  chains,  and  his 
reply  was  something  like  this,  "I  would 
to  God,  that  not  only  thou,  but  all  men 
everywhere  were  as  I  am,  save  these 
chains  that  hold  me  bound."  (See 
Ibid.,  26:29.)  That  is  what  the  spirit 
of  the  Lord  does. 

And  you  remember  when  Jesus  ap- 
peared to  the  people  here  in  America, 
following  his  resurrection,  and  estab- 
lished his  Church  and  ministered  among 
them,  the  historian  says  that  the  joys 
that  filled  their  souls  no  pen  could  write 
nor  tongue  express.  And  that  is  the 
thing  the  Lord  gives  to  those  who  serve 
him,  and  that  is  the  joy  of  service  there 
is  in  this  Church. 

A  few  weeks  ago  I  attended  a 
stake  conference,  and  a  stake  president 
told  me  about  two  visits  he  had  made  to 
an  adult  member  of  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood, to  try  to  induce  him  to  quit  his  to- 
bacco so  that  he  might  receive  the  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood  and  be  prepared  to 
go  to  the  house  of  the  Lord  with  his 
family;  and  he  said  he  had  been  un- 
successful. So  I  said  to  this  stake  presi- 
dent, "Did  it  ever  occur  to  you  that  you 
might  have  been  getting  the  cart  before 
the  horse,  so  to  speak?  If  you  would 
go  to  that  man  and  teach  him  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and 
he  would  become  converted,  you  would 
not  need  to  ask  him  to  quit  his  tobacco." 

I  think  of  the  many,  many  homes  into 
which  I  went  in  the  mission  field.  I 
have  in  mind  one  now.  The  first  night 
there,  because  we  would  not  smoke  with 
them,  and  we  could  not  drink  their 
coffee  with  them,  the  man  said,  "Well, 
I  would  never  join  your  Church."  Well, 
we  did  not  discuss  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
any  more  for  a  few  weeks,  until  we  got 
him  a  little  farther  along.  And  when 
we  got  a  little  farther  along,  we  did 
not  have  to  ask  him  to  lay  away  his 
coffee;  it  just  disappeared.  We  did  not 
have  to  ask  him  to  quit  his  tobacco; 


Third  Day 

it  went  out  the  window  the  same  way. 

I  remember  one  man  past  his  eighties, 
who  had  been  in  the  government  serv- 
ice, walking  up  and  down  the  streets 
and  lanes  in  Holland  for  years  and  years 
of  his  life,  and  all  he  had  for  a  com- 
panion and  friend  was  his  cigars.  He 
chewed  them  instead  of  smoking  them. 
And  when  he  heard  the  gospel  and 
became  converted,  he  laid  them  away; 
he  used  to  chew  a  little  licorice  root  to 
take  the  place  of  the  cigars. 

I  never  hear  of  men  like  the  one  the 
stake  president  referred  to  but  what 
I  think — if  they  were  only  converted 
to  the  truth,  they  would  not  have  to 
be  asked  to  quit  their  tobacco.  I  could 
not  help  thinking  the  other  night  when 
we  had  this  demonstration  of  missionary 
work,  if  every  member  of  the  Church 
could  see  it  and  hear  it,  and  all  the 
youth  of  the  Church,  we  would  not 
have  so  much  transgression. 

I  have  another  thought  before  I 
close.  You  remember  what  the  Lord 
said  to  Peter,  he  said, 

.  .  .  Simon,  Simon,  behold,  Satan  hath 
desired  to  have  you,  that  he  may  sift  you 
as  wheat. 

But  I  have  prayed  for  thee,  that  thy 
faith  fail  not:  and  when  thou  art  con- 
verted, strengthen  thy  brethren.  (Luke 
22:31-32.) 

I  tell  you,  brothers  and  sisters,  the 
Latter-day  Saints  are  becoming  con- 
verted, and  they  are  strengthening  their 
brethren,  but  there  would  not  be  a  man 
or  a  woman  in  all  Israel  who  would 
ever  buy  a  pound  of  tea  or  coffee  or  a 
cigar  or  a  cigaret  or  tobacco,  in  any 
form,  if  they  were  only  converted. 

You  just  think  of  Peter.  He  said, 
"Though  all  the  world  forsake  thee,  I 
will  not  forsake  thee."  But  the  Savior 
knew  that  even  though  he  thought  he 
was  converted  he  was  not  quite  con- 
verted. And  so  you  remember  how  the 
Savior  said  that  ere  the  cock  should 
crow,  he  would  deny  Jesus  thrice,  and 
he  did.  And  he  was  the  first  one  to 
say,  "I  go  fishing,"  (see  John  21:3) 
after  the  Savior  was  crucified,  but  when 
he  had  remained  at  Jerusalem  accord- 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  W1RTHL1N 


115 


ing  to  the  Savior's  command,  until  he 
had  been  endowed  with  power  from  on 
high,  the  Holy  Ghost,  then  he  went 
forth  fearless  as  a  lion,  and  when  he 
was  commanded  that  he  should  no 
more  preach  Christ  and  him  crucified  in 
the  streets  of  Jerusalem,  he  replied: 
"Whom  shall  man  obey?  God  or  man?" 
And  you  will  remember  that  finally  he 
rejected  the  privilege  of  being  crucified 
with  his  head  up,  because  he  thought 
he  was  not  worthy  to  be  crucified  as 
was  his  Lord. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  if  we  could  just 
get  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  testimony  of 
the  spirit  in  the  hearts  of  all  Latter- 
day  Saints,  we  would  not  have  any 
of  them  saying  that  we  harp  too  much 
on  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  After  all, 
God  gave  it. 

God  help  us  to  so  live  his  command- 


ments that  we  may  enjoy  his  Spirit, 
that  we  may  ever  be  found  walking  in 
his  ways,  and  keeping  his  command- 
ments, I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Le- 
Grand  Richards,  whom  you  have  this 
day  sustained  as  a  member  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve. 

We  shall  now  hear  Bishop  Joseph  L. 
Wirthlin,  and  he  will  be  followed  by 
Brother  Buehner. 

This  afternoon  we  interviewed  Brother 
Buehner,  and  just  as  he  shook  hands 
to  leave,  with  tears  in  his  eyes,  he  said, 
"I  hope  I  shall  not  have  to  speak  this 
afternoon,  shall  I?" 

I  suppose  you  will,  Brother  Buehner. 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
approach  this  task  with  mingled 
feelings  this  afternoon.  The  one 
difference  between  Bishop  Richards'  and 
my  situation  has  been  that  I  was  asked 
to  visit  President  McKay  last  night  at 
five-thirty.  Hence  the  turmoil  in  my 
soul  has  existed  for  twenty-four  hours, 
whereas  in  his  case,  he  has  only  had 
two  hours  of  it. 

I  would  like  to  say  that  this  change 
has  brought  about  an  end  of  one  of 
the  sweetest  experiences  that  I  have 
ever  enjoyed.  The  last  fourteen  years 
in  association  with  Bishop  Richards  has 
been  a  great  source  of  inspiration,  joy, 
and  happiness  for  me. 

I  found  him  to  be  a  man  of  great 
faith.  He  has  an  abundance  of  humility, 
and  in  his  heart  of  hearts  there  is  a 
great  love  for  all  people.  There  has 
been  a  beaten  trail  to  his  door  over 
the  years  by  those  who  have  been  in 
distress,  and  they  have  never  left  his 
office  empty-handed  or  without  some 
inspiration  and  encouragement.  And  as 
he  leaves  us,  we  shed  tears  at  our  part- 
ing, but  we  are  only  two  floors  apart. 


It  was  just  fourteen  years  ago  this 
month  when  the  telephone  rang  in  my 
office,  and  someone  said,  "President 
Grant  would  like  to  speak  to  you." 

I  answered  the  phone.  The  President 
said,  "This  is  Heber  J.  Grant.  We  are 
reorganizing  the  Presiding  Bishopric  to- 
day. LeGrand  Richards  has  been  asked 
to  accept  the  position  of  Presiding  Bish- 
op, with  Marvin  O.  Ashton  as  his  first 
counselor,  and  we  are  asking  you  to 
take  the  position  of  second  counselor." 

I  was  shocked,  and  I  suggested  to  the 
President  I  should  like  to  talk  to  him 
about  the  matter. 

He  then  declared,  "There  are  only 
thirty  minutes  before  the  next  session 
of  the  conference  takes  up,  and  I  want 
to  have  some  rest.   What  do  you  say?" 

I  answered  "Yes,"  and  I  have  never 
regretted  having  answered  yes  to  that 
call  and  all  calls  that  have  come  to  me 
in  this  great  organization. 

I  think  of  Bishop  Ashton  today.  I 
learned  much  from  him.  He  had  a 
heart  that  was  full  of  kindness  and  love 
for  all  mankind.  I  say,  "God  bless  his 
memory." 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  6 

This  great  honor  that  has  come  to  me 
today  I  accept  as  a  tribute  reflecting 
back  to  those  who  made  it  possible  for 
me  to  enjoy  all  the  blessings  of  this 
great  Church. 

I  think  of  my  Swiss  grandfather  and 
grandmother,  my  English  grandfather 
and  grandmother,  who  paid  a  dear  price 
from  a  physical  point  of  view  for  the 
acceptance  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ. 

My  Swiss  grandfather  came  into  the 
valleys  of  the  mountains  in  destitute 
circumstances.  He  married  his  Swiss 
sweetheart  and  took  her  to  a  mansion 
out  on  Eighth  East  and  South  Temple — 
a  dugout — where  they  lived  for  two 
years.  But  they  were  happy  in  the  gos- 
pel of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  In  a 
short  time  my  grandfather  was  called 
on  a  mission  to  Switzerland. 

At  that  time  they  had  three  children. 
He  accepted  the  call  without  any  reser- 
vations. They  had  rio  resources  ex- 
cept the  family  cow,  and  that  was  sold 
to  the  end  that  his  traveling  expenses 
might  be  paid,  and  my  grandmother 
sewed  salt  sacks  for  one  dollar  a  thou- 
sand in  order  to  sustain  her  family  and 
help  her  husband  who  was  out  preach- 
ing the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

My  English  grandfather  was  a  man 
of  great  faith.  As  a  young  man  he  had 
the  feeling  in  his  heart  that  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  must  be  upon 
the  earth  somewhere,  and  that  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  could  be  found. 

So  he  prayed  to  the  Lord  earnestly 
that  he  might  find  the  Church  and  the 
gospel.  Finally  one  Saturday  night  be- 
fore retiring,  he  knelt  down  and  asked 
the  Lord  in  faith  whether  or  not  the 
Church  was  upon  the  earth,  and  if  it 
was,  could  he  find  it. 

During  that  night  he  had  a  dream, 
and  in  the  dream  he  saw  a  street  in 
the  city  where  he  lived,  and  in  that 
street  there  was  a  hall,  and  in  that  hall 
two  men  were  preaching  the  gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

When  he  awoke  the  next  morning, 
he  was  so  impressed  by  the  dream  that 
he  got  up,  dressed,  and  went  to  the 
street,  found  the  hall,  and  there  found 


Third  Day 

two  servants  of  God  preaching  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  He  came  to 
this  country  amidst  hardships.  Because 
of  the  faith  of  these  forefathers  of  mine, 
I  am  here,  living  in  peaceful  valleys, 
in  the  shadows  of  great  mountains,  and, 
above  all,  within  hearing  of  the  voice 
of  the  latter-day  prophets. 

So  I  owe  to  them  a  debt — a  debt  of 
gratitude,  and  a  debt  that  can  best  be 
paid  in  service  to  this  great  cause.  I 
was  blessed  with  wonderful  parents,  a 
father  who  taught  me  the  importance 
of  integrity  and  virtue,  and  a  mother 
of  great  faith — a  mother,  who  taught 
me  the  lessons  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  at  her  knee.  She  taught 
me  the  story  of  the  visitation  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son,  and  I  accepted  that 
story  without  any  reservations. 

She  taught  me  with  reference  to 
Jesus  Christ  and  his  divine  mission.  She 
taught  me  to  honor  the  men  who  stand 
at  the  head  of  this  Church  as  prophets, 
seers,  and  revelators.  And  as  I  have 
lived  and  grown  older  in  life,  I  have 
found  that  her  teachings  were  right, 
that  they  are  true,  and  because  of  her 
I  owe  to  this  great  organization  a  serv- 
ice which  I  pray  the  Lord  will  give  me 
the  strength  to  render  in  such  a  way 
that  those  who  have  asked  me  to  accept 
this  position  will  be  satisfied,  that  I 
will  please  the  Lord,  and  please  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters. 

I  have  been  blessed  with  a  fine  com- 
panion, my  dear  wife.  I  remember  the 
time  in  the  early  years  of  our  married 
life  when  it  was  a  struggle,  and  1  labored 
in  the  bishopric  of  my  ward;  she  gave 
me  encouragement.  Many  times  I  have 
come  home  from  work  late.  My  clothes 
were  spread  out,  my  meal  was  prepared. 
I  ate  it  quickly,  changed  clothes,  and 
visited  in  the  ward  until  late  at  night, 
arose  early  the  next  morning  before  my 
children  were  awake,  and  went  to 
work. 

For  days  at  a  time  I  did  not  see  my 
children  when  they  were  awake.  So  this 
companion  of  mine  has  the  credit  of 
rearing  our  family,  and  since  I  have 
been  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  being 
away  for  weeks  at  a  time,  she  has  taken 


BISHOP  JOSEPH 

over,  and  has  done  a  great  service  as  far 
as  my  family  is  concerned,  and  I  say, 
"God  bless  her." 

In  connection  with  this  work  I  real- 
ize that  I  am  following  a  great  leader. 
I  know  of  no  man  who  has  had  at  heart 
the  welfare  of  the  youth  of  this  Church 
more  than  Bishop  LeGrand  Richards. 
As  a  bishopric,  we  have  counseled  long 
and  often  together  in  the  endeavor  to 
find  means  and  ways  whereby  greater 
service  might  be  rendered  to  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  of  the  Church. 

Bishop  Richards  has  received  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Lord's  holy  spirit,  and 
rightly,  too,  for  he  has  lived  a  life  that 
qualifies  him  for  the  association  of  the 
Spirit,  and  out  of  it  plans  have  been 
provided  whereby  both  the  young  men 
and  young  women  of  the  Church  have 
been  stimulated  to  draw  nigh  unto  the 
Lord. 

I  have  three  sons.  I  love  them  with 
all  my  heart,  and  I  have  the  same  love 
for  the  young  men  over  whom  we  now 
have  the  responsibility  and  privilege  of 
presiding. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  recognize  that 
the  Presiding  Bishopric  has  a  great  re- 
sponsibility in  the  matter  of  seeing  that 
home  teaching  is  carried  on  in  the 
Church.  This  great  priesthood  assign- 
ment from  the  Lord  makes  it  clear  to  us 
that  it  is  the  teacher's  duty  to  watch  over 
the  Church  always,  to  be  with  them  and 
strengthen  them,  to  see  that  there  is 
no  iniquity  in  the  Church,  backbiting, 
or  evil  speaking,  to  see  that  they  attend 
to  their  meetings,  and  that  all  of  them 
do  perform  their  duties. 

The  word  all  has  impressed  upon  me 
the  fact  that  under  no  consideration 
are  we  as  the  teachers  of  the  Church, 
as  the  servants  of  God,  to  teach  the 
several  and  see  that  they  do  their  duty, 
but  to  see  that  all  of  them  do  their  duty. 

So,  with  this  great  assignment  resting 
upon  the  shoulders  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric,  with  the  help  and  support 
of  the  Melchizedek  and  Aaronic  priest- 
hoods, we  should  be  able  to  provide  the 
teaching  of  the  gospel  in  every  home,  to 
watch  over  every  home,  to  be  with  the 
families  of  the  Church,  strengthening 


L.  WIRTHLIN  117 

them  in  their  faith,  testimony,  loyalty, 
and  devotion  to  the  Church. 

The  greatest  authorities  on  the  sci- 
ence of  teaching  indicate  the  best  teach- 
ing is  done  where  the  listeners  have 
an  opportunity  to  participate  in  the  dis- 
cussion. 

As  of  February  of  this  year,  a  plan 
has  been  worked  out  where  the  ward 
teachers  leave  in  each  home  a  small 
slip  on  which  is  printed  the  topic  or 
doctrine  to  be  discussed  during  the  com- 
ing month,  and  therewith  are  several 
scriptural  references.  This  is  an  invi- 
tation to  the  families  of  this  Church  to 
prepare  for  the  visit  of  the  ward  teachers, 
to  know  something  about  the  subject 
to  discuss  and  enter  into  the  discussion 
freely.  We  have  the  hope  that  the 
teachers  of  the  Church  will  be  fully 
prepared,  and  as  they  enter  each  home, 
the  family  will  know  of  the  prepara- 
tion made  because  of  the  intelligent 
discussion  that  will  follow  under  the 
direction  of  the  Lord's  holy  spirit. 

I  am  convinced  that  there  are  many 
young  people  in  this  Church  who  have 
questions  in  their  minds  relative  to  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus. 

Only  the  other  day  a  sixteen-year- 
old  boy  asked  his  father,  "What  is  the 
Holy  Ghost?  What  form  is  it  in?  What 
are  its  functions?  Do  the  General  Au- 
thorities of  the  Church  receive  revela- 
tions through  the  Holy  Ghost?"  These 
are  all  intelligent  questions,  and  they 
are  pertinent.  They  indicate  that  this 
sixteen-year-old  boy  was  thinking. 

In  any  Church  family  where  the  gos- 
pel principles  and  doctrines  are  studied, 
the  questions  of  the  youth  can  be  an- 
swered fully  and  particularly  in  the 
presence  of  the  ward  teachers,  the  serv- 
ants of  God. 

"The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence." 
(D.  &  C.  93:36.)  If  we  are  going  to 
have  a  house  of  God  in  our  homes,  it 
must  be  a  house  where  we  study  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  as 
we  gain  knowledge  in  our  homes,  knowl- 
edge of  the  gospel,  then  the  glory  of 
God  will  be  in  that  home.  His  Spirit 
will  be  there  in  rich  abundance.  There 
will  be  the  spirit  of  love  and  peace  and 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  6 

good  will.  And  finally  when  we  have 
finished  our  course  here  in  life,  we 
have  been  promised  a  mansion  on  the 
other  side,  for  the  Christ  said, 

In  my  Father's  house  are  many  mansions: 
if  it  were  not  so,  I  would  have  told  you.  I 
go  to  prepare  a  place  for  you. 

.  .  .  that  where  I  am,  ye  may  be  also. 
(John  14:2-3.) 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  heavenly 
mansion  of  which  the  Savior  speaks 
will  depend  entirely  upon  how  much 
intelligence  we  gain  in  this  life,  and 
how  much  of  it  we  apply  in  our  lives 
from  day  to  day.  We  are  all  candidates 
for  the  celestial  kingdom,  and  if  we 
gain  that  knowledge  and  apply  it  in  our 
lives,  there  is  no  question  but  what  we 
will  inherit  the  celestial  kingdom. 

I  sincerely  trust  that  we  may  have  an 
interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers.  For 
these  two  grand  men  who  will  stand  at 
my  side,  I  have  deep  respect  and  love. 
Bishop  Isaacson  has  proved  his  worth, 
and  when  I  discussed  with  him  the 
matter  of  remaining  with  me  as  one  of 
my  counselors,  he  said,  "I  don't  want 
you  to  feel  that  you  have  to  take  me. 
If  there  is  someone  else  you  would  rather 
have,  feel  free  in  selecting  him."  Breth- 
ren and  sisters,  knowing  him  as  I  do, 
knowing  his  faith,  knowing  of  the  great 
work  that  he  has  done  with  the  adult 
members  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood, 
knowing  something  of  his  fine  judgment, 
I  just  felt  that  I  could  not  give  him  up. 

In  Brother  Buehner,  I  recognized  a 
great  youth  leader,  a  man  who  accom- 
plished a  great  work  as  stake  president, 
a  man  who  has  splendid  judgment,  a 
man  of  humility.  So  I  feel  that  with 
these  two  men  by  my  side,  with  an  in- 
terest in  your  faith  and  prayers,  and  with 
the  help  of  our  brethren,  the  First  Presi- 
dency, the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and 
the  Council  of  the  Seventy,  and  with 
the  help  of  the  Lord,  we  can  fill  the 
assignments  that  have  been  given  to  us. 
I  couldn't  help  feeling  the  other  morn- 
ing, after  President  McKay  had  finished 
that  great  address,  to  say  in  my  heart, 


Third  Day 

"Prophet  of  God,  thank  you  for  that 
revelation."  I  had  that  same  thought 
in  my  mind  last  night  when  the  three 
members  of  the  Presidency  stood  up  and 
counseled  the  great  multitude  of  the 
priesthood:  "Prophets  of  God,  I  thank 
you  for  your  counsel.  I  thank  you  for 
your  blessings." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  these  men  stand 
in  relationship  to  the  Church  as  did 
Peter,  James,  and  John.  They  are  the 
servants  of  God.  The  light  of  inspira- 
tion and  revelation  rests  upon  them 
mightily.  That  is  my  testimony.  And 
what  I  say  about  them  is  equally  true 
of  these  twelve  witnesses  to  the  world, 
the  Twelve  Apostles.  Every  one  of 
these  men  represents  the  Church  as 
Christ  would  have  it  represented.  They 
have  my  love,  and  they  have  my  respect, 
and  they  have  my  support.  The  same 
is  equally  true  of  the  brethren,  the 
Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  and  members 
of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  and 
the  Patriarch  to  the  Church.  And  I 
would  have  you  know  that  we  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  are  your  servants. 
If  there  is  anything  we  can  do  to  help 
stake  presidents  and  bishops  with  their 
problems,  we  invite  them  to  come  and 
counsel  with  us. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us  that 
we  will  be  united  in  all  of  our  en- 
deavors, for  I  know  that  this  is  the 
Church  of  the  Christ.  I  am  just  as  sure 
of  that  as  I  live.  The  visitation  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son  to  Joseph  Smith  is 
a  reality  to  me,  not  a  dream.  And  the 
visitation  of  John  the  Baptist,  and  Peter, 
James,  and  John,  and  all  of  the  heaven- 
ly beings  who  visited  the  Prophet,  giv- 
ing him  the  keys  wherein  the  gospel 
was  restored  in  its  simplicity  and  its 
fulness,  and  finally  the  establishment 
of  the  Church  as  it  existed  in  the  days 
of  the  Christ,  are  all  realities  to  me. 
There  is  no  question  about  it. 

And  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless 
me  that  I  shall  be  built  up  in  my  faith. 
That  he  will  forgive  me  of  my  weak- 
nesses, that  I  shall  have  his  spirit  with 
me  always,  I  humbly  ask  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 


119 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  We  shall  now  hear  a  few  words  from 
is  Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin  whom  the  Elder  Carl  W.  Buehner,  whom  we  in- 
General  Conference  has  this  day  sus-  troduce  to  you  now  as  the  Second  Coun- 
tained  as  the  Presiding  Bishop  of  the  selor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the 
Church.  Church. 

BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 


Second  Counselor  in 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  didn't 
know  a  healthy  man's  legs  could 
wobble  so  much  in  such  a  short 
distance.  I  am  humble  as  I  have  never 
been  humble  before.  I  love  this  great 
Church,  and  I  love  these  great  men  that 
preside  over  it — these  men  we  know  as 
the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church. 

I  have  had  a  great  experience,  and  I 
thank  them  for  it,  in  working  in  the 
organizations  of  the  Church.  I  have 
had  the  privilege  of  being  a  bishop,  of 
being  a  stake  president,  of  being  the 
chairman  of  a  region  in  this  great  wel- 
fare program  of  ours,  and  until  a  few 
minutes  ago  I  was  a  member  of  the 
general  welfare  committee  of  the 
Church. 

I  can  promise  this  to  Bishop  Wirthlin 
and  to  Bishop  Isaacson,  that  I  will  do 
everything  that  they  ask  me  to  do  as 
long  as  I  have  strength  to  do  it.  I  would 
drop  in  my  tracks  working  for  this  great 
Church.  I  know  of  nothing  that  I  love 
more;  I  know  of  no  work  that  I  would 
rather  do  than  serve  in  this  Church. 
After  all,  I  am  only  a  humble  elder  in 
the  Church;  my  father  and  mother 
were  converted  by  two  Mormon  elders 
in  the  old  country,  and  when  they  came 
to  this  country  in  1900,  they  brought 
with  them  two  little  children,  and  I 
was  one  of  those  children.  Elder  Thomas 
E.  McKay,  brother  of  our  great  Presi- 
dent, said  that  he  held  me  in  his  arms 
in  the  old  country,  and  that  my  father 
and  mother  were  the  first  ones  to  give 
him  dinner  when  he  came  to  that  sec- 
tion of  the  country  as  a  missionary 
about  1898.  And  if  there  is  one  thing 
that  I  will  always  remember  about  my 
good  parents,  it  is  that  they  remembered 


the  Presiding  Bishopric 

all  their  lives  why  they  came  to  Salt 
Lake  City.  They  were  faithful  members 
of  this  great  Church.  We  were  taught 
as  youngsters  how  we  should  live,  and 
if  we  haven't  followed  in  their  footsteps 
and  if  we  haven't  amounted  to  any- 
thing as  sons  and  daughters  of  those 
fine  parents,  it  is  certainly  not  their 
fault. 

We  didn't  have  to  be  asked  to  go  to 
Church;  we  always  went  with  them.  I 
remember  that  as  a  little  boy  it  was  my 
responsibility  every  Saturday  to  shine 
the  shoes  of  my  father  and  all  my 
brothers — and  I  had  a  lot  of  brothers. 
We  didn't  do  that  on  Sunday  morning; 
it  was  all  done  on  Saturday;  and  Sunday 
morning  the  shined  shoes  were  all  put 
on,  and  we  all  went  to  Church. 

I'll  appreciate  always  that  I  learned 
to  work.  I  was  the  eldest  of  the  fam- 
ily, and  as  our  family  grew,  my  .  parents 
had  quite  a  struggle  in  their  early  days 
in  making  a  livelihood.  As  we  became 
old  enough,  we  had  to  learn  how  to  do 
something  ourselves.  As  I  grew  old 
enough  to  go  to  high  school,  I  loved 
athletics  as  much  as  I  did  anything 
else,  and  I  finally  had  the  privilege  of 
playing  football  and  basketball  and 
baseball  and  other  things,  but  I  think 
as  a  freshman  at  high  school  I  was  the 
first  man  who  left  the  football  practice 
field  and  hurriedly  took  a  shower  and 
ran  to  my  home  so  that  I  could  be 
working  in  our  back  yard  when  my 
father  came  home  from  work.  It  was 
only  a  few  years  after,  that  my  father 
accompanied  me  to  many  games  and 
watched  some  of  my  younger  brothers. 

Well,  it  has  been  a  great  experience. 
I  love  these  men,  and  I  will  do  all  I 


120 

Sunday,  April  6 

can  in  my  humble  and  weak  way  to 
assist  them  in  every  way  I  can.  If  I 
have  any  disappointment,  I  think  it 
would  be  in  Brother  Romney,  that  he 
let  me  leave  the  welfare  committee  just 
at  the  time  when  I  thought  I  could 
help  him  a  little.  They  trained  me 
for  a  little  over  a  year  and  had  just 
given  me  a  new  position  wherein  I 
thought  I  might  be  helpful,  and  here 
today  that  work  has  been  terminated, 
and  I  have  a  new  position  in  the  Church. 

I  love  the  youth  of  the  Church,  and 
I  love  you  folk.    I  hope  and  pray  that 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

together  we  will  move  as  a  mighty  army, 
and  that  this  great  Church  will  grow 
and  prosper.  My  testimony  is  this,  that 
as  we  work  in  this  Church,  so  will  our 
testimony  increase,  and  so  will  the  Lord 
love  us  and  his  blessings  be  with  us. 
May  it  be  so,  I  pray  humbly  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congre- 
gation joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"Praise  To  The  Man  Who  Communed 
With  Jehovah." 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


With  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
I  take  great  joy  in  sustaining,  in  a 
real  sense,  these  valiant  servants  of 
the  Lord  who  have  proven  themselves  so 
well  in  the  past.  I  sustain  them  in  their 
new  positions  with  all  my  heart. 

After  three  days  and  two  evenings  of 
hearing  the  inspiring  remarks  of  the 
brethren  who  have  addressed  us,  I  can 
assure  you  that  the  only  comfort  one 
gets  at  this  stage  is  the  comfort  that 
comes  from  knowing  that  that  which 
he  thought  to  say  has  been  more  ade- 
quately expressed  than  he  could  have 
given  it.   That  is  my  situation. 

I  think  we  have  had  a  most  wonderful 
conference  in  that  there  have  been 
sobriety,  seriousness  of  purpose,  earnest- 
ness of  feeling,  and  it  seems  to  me,  a 
desire  on  the  part  of  everyone  to  accept 
that  which  has  been  given  us.  The 
words  that  were  given  to  one  of  the 
characters  by  William  Shakespeare  seem 
to  express  my  feeling: 

0  God,  who  lends  me  life,  lend  me  a 
soul  replete  with  thankfulness. 

1  hope,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that 
we  can  go  from  here,  each  of  us,  with 
"a  soul  replete  with  thankfulness"  for 
the  abundance  of  blessings  which  are 
ours;  for  the  truth  which  we  have;  for 
the  authority  to  act  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  and  to  officiate  in  his  name,  and 
thereby  bring  salvation  not  alone  to 


ourselves  but  to  our  loved  ones  and  to 
all  those  who  will  heed  the  call. 

We  should  be  thankful,  as  I  am  sure 
we  all  are,  for  these  inspired  men  who 
lead  and  direct  us  in  such  a  splendid 
way. 

If  I  could  condense  into  a  few  words 
the  general  theme  of  this  conference,  it 
would  be  something  like  this:  Forsake 
the  vain  practices  of  the  world  and  serve 
the  God  of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ. 

Now,  if  we  can  go  from  here  heeding 
that  general  thought,  this  conference 
will  have  produced  much.  I  have  often 
wondered  why  Latter-day  Saints  should 
need  to  be  constantly  admonished  when 
we  can  declare  in  testimony  and  in 
truth  that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  an 
instrument  in  his  hands  in  restoring  the 
gospel.  I  have  very  often  thought  that 
that  should  be  sufficient  for  any  of  us, 
and  like  Adam,  as  President  Clark  men- 
tioned this  morning,  to  know  what  our 
Father  desires  should  be  sufficient. 

And  as  with  Adam,  so  with  Abra- 
ham— no  matter  how  great  the  sacri- 
fice, he  did  not  equivocate.  He  did 
not  hesitate.  He  did  not  ask  questions. 
I  hope,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  we 
can  approach  this  in  our  faith  and  our 
determination  to  serve  the  Lord. 

We  are,  however,  exposed  to  the 
philosophies  and  the  practices  of  the 
world,  and  sometimes  become  intrigued 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 


121 


with  certain  innovations  which  many 
people  would  have  us  think  are  the 
things  to  do.  Therefore,  we  need  to  be 
reminded  from  time  to  time  of  the 
things  which  really  count,  to  put  first 
things  first,  to  love  the  Lord  with  all 
our  hearts  and  with  all  our  might  and 
with  all  our  strength. 

We  Latter-day  Saints  need  not  sub- 
scribe to  those  practices  which  are  around 
us,  of  which  we  have  been  warned  in 
this  conference.  We  need  not  minimize 
the  religious  standards  and  ideals  which 
have  been  set  up  for  us  to  heed  and  to 
follow.  We  need  not  be  "lovers  of 
pleasure  more  than  lovers  of  God,"  as 
Paul  has  said  that  many  in  the  world 
would  be  in  these  last  days.  (II  Tim. 
3:4.)  We  need  not  and  should  not  be 
"high-minded"  nor  self-sufficient,  but 
as  true  Latter-day  Saints  we  should  walk 
humbly  before  the  Lord  and  remember 
that  he  is  our  God. 

If  we  can  be  humble  and  submissive, 
gentle  and  easily  entreated,  we  will 
grow  in  strength  and  in  stature  and  be 
able  to  meet  the  vicissitudes  of  life,  and 
to  withstand  the  "...  evils  and  designs 
which  do  and  will  exist  in  the  hearts 
of  conspiring  men  in  the  last  days" 
(D.  &  C.  89:4),  as  we  have  been  urged 
to  do. 

There  is  an  old  Spanish  proverb 
which  says, 

He  that  loseth  wealth,  loseth  much.  He 
that  loseth  friends,  loseth  more.  But  he 
that  loseth  spirituality,  loseth  all. 

It  seems  to  me  that  there  is  a  depres- 
sion on  spiritual  things.  We  are  in  a 
worldwide  "spiritual  depression."  As  I 
go  about  and  observe  the  conduct  of 
many  men  and  women,  this  seems  all 
the  more  convincing.    And  we  are  told 

.  .  .  the  whole  world  lieth  in  sin,  and 
groaneth  under  darkness  and  under  the 
bondage  of  sin. 

And  by  this  you  may  know  they  are 
under  the  bondage  of  sin,  because  they 
come  not  unto  me. 

For  whoso  cometh  not  unto  me  is  under 
the  bondage  of  sin. 

And  whoso  receiveth  not  my  voice  is  not 
acquainted  with  my  voice,  and  is  not  of 
me.  (D.  &  C.  84:49-52.) 


That  was  given  to  the  Church  in  1832. 
I  doubt  that  the  world  has  improved 
much  since  then.  Maybe  we  have 
learned  a  lot  more  devilment  in  the 
intervening  time.  I  am  not  sure,  but 
it  would  appear  that  way. 

Now,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  through 
these  days  of  confusion  and  of  doubt, 
where  can  we  find  security?  On  what 
foundation  can  we  safely  build? 

Speaking  of  the  conditions  that  would 
exist  in  these  days,  a  revelation  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  gave  us  this 
assurance: 

For  they  that  are  wise  and  have  received 
the  truth,  and  have  taken  the  Holy  Spirit 
for  their  guide,  and  have  not  been  deceived — 
verily  I  say  unto  you,  they  shall  not  be 
hewn  down  and  cast  into  the  fire,  but  shall 
abide  the  day. 

And  the  earth  shall  be  given  unto  them 
for  an  inheritance;  and  they  shall  multiply 
and  wax  strong,  and  their  children  shall 
grow  up  without  sin  unto  salvation. 

For  the  Lord  shall  be  in  their  midst,  and 
his  glory  shall  be  upon  them,  and  he  will  be 
their  king  and  their  lawgiver.  (Ibid.,  45:57- 
59.) 

How  marvelous  it  is,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  to  contemplate  such  a  blessing. 
It  is  ours  if  we  will  just  heed  the  require- 
ments for  it.  I  very  often  turn  to  the 
scriptures  when  I  speak  to  these  young 
people,  or  did  do  in  the  temple,  in  an 
effort  to  get  them  to  hold  to  the  course 
which  is  good  for  them,  giving  them  this 
admonition  in  the  words  of  Helaman: 

And  now,  my  sons,  remember,  remember 
that  it  is  upon  the  rock  of  our  Redeemer, 
who  is  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  that  ye 
must  build  your  foundation;  that  when  the 
devil  shall  send  forth  his  mighty  winds, 
yea,  his  shafts  in  the  whirlwind,  yea,  when 
all  his  hail  and  his  mighty  storm  shall  beat 
upon  you,  it  shall  have  no  power  over  you 
to  drag  you  down  to  the  gulf  of  misery  and 
endless  wo,  because  of  the  rock  upon  which 
ye  are  built,  which  is  a  sure  foundation, 
a  foundation  whereon  if  men  build  they 
cannot  fall.  (Helaman  5:12.) 

I  commend  that  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  to  the  young  people  particu- 
larly, who  are  making  a  struggle  to 


122 

Sunday,  April  6 

establish  themselves  in  their  homes  and 
in  their  lives  as  husbands  and  wives 
and  fathers  and  mothers,  to  build  upon 
that  sure  foundation,  for  if  they  do,  they 
cannot  fall,  and  they  will  not  be  de- 
ceived by  the  practices  of  the  world. 

I  sustain  the  brethren  with  all  my 
heart.    I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

the  Lord.  This  is  not  just  another 
Church.  This  is  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  he  heads  it  and  directs  it 
through  these  instruments,  these  holy 
men  in  his  hands. 

I  testify  to  this,  and  pledge  my  al- 
legiance to  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  humbly 
ask  an  interest  in  your  faith  and 
prayers,  and  the  Spirit  of  God, 
to  direct  the  few  things  that  I  may  say 
this  afternoon. 

I  have  a  strong  desire  and  feeling  in 
my  heart  in  this  closing  session  of  the 
conference  to  encourage  the  Latter-day 
Saints  to  keep  God's  commandments.  I 
know  that  there  is  nothing  in  this  world 
that  is  as  important  to  members  of  the 
Church  as  to  keep  all  the  command- 
ments. In  fact,  the  very  purpose,  the 
reason  for  our  existence  here  in  mortal- 
ity, is  to  prove  us,  to  see  if  we  will 
"...  live  by  every  word  that  proceedeth 
forth  from  the  mouth  of  God."  (D.  &  C. 
84:44;  98:11.) 

As  President  Clark  pointed  out  in  his 
masterful  discourse  this  morning,  Jesus 
Christ,  at  the  grand  council  in  heaven, 
declared  that  the  sons  and  daughters  of 
God  would  be  placed  upon  this  earth 
to  "  .  .  .  prove  them  herewith,  to  see 
if  they  will  do  all  things  whatsoever 
the  Lord  their  God  shall  command 
them."  And  the  Master  gave  the  prom- 
ise to  them  that  those  who  were  success- 
ful in  doing  so,  would  "...  have  glory 
added  upon  their  heads  for  ever  and 
ever."  (Abraham  3:25-26.) 

In  due  course  of  time,  Father  Adam 
and  Mother  Eve  were  placed  in  the 
Garden  of  Eden.  They  partook  of  the 
forbidden  fruit.  The  Fall  came  about; 
thus  they  became  mortal  .beings.  A 
veil  was  drawn  over  their  minds,  and 
they  forgot  their  pre-mortal  existence 
and  the  gospel  by  which  they  had  pre- 
viously lived  in  the  spirit  world.  It 
was  necessary,  therefore,  for  Jehovah, 


even  Jesus  Christ,  to  reveal  to  them 
the  gospel  plan. 

As  time  passed,  time  and  time  again, 
little  by  little,  line  upon  line,  precept 
upon  precept,  doctrine  upon  doctrine, 
the  gospel  was  revealed  by  the  Savior 
to  Father  Adam  and  Mother  Eve.  They 
rejoiced  in  all  the  revelations  that  they 
received;  and  faithfully  they  rendered 
obedience  to  the  commandments  of 
God.  We  read  in  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price: 

And  he  [meaning  the  Lord]  gave  unto 
them  commandments,  that  they  should  wor- 
ship the  Lord  their  God,  and  should  offer 
the  firstlings  of  their  flocks,  for  an  offering 
unto  the  Lord.  And  Adam  was  obedient 
unto  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 

And  after  many  days  an  angel  of  the 
Lord  appeared  unto  Adam,  saying:  Why 
dost  thou  offer  sacrifices  unto  the  Lord? 
And  Adam  said  unto  him:  I  know  not, 
save  the  Lord  commanded  me.  (Moses 
5:5-6.) 

Now,  some  people  may  regard  Adam's 
answer  as  one  of  blind  obedience.  I 
think  his  answer  is  one  of  the  most  sub- 
lime illustrations  in  the  scripture  of 
faithful  obedience.  Although  he  did 
not  know  the  full  answer  why,  yet  he 
knew  that  God  would  not  tell  him  to 
do  anything  which  would  be  harmful 
for  him.  He  was  convinced  that  all  that 
God  commanded  him  to  do  was  for 
his  own  good;  therefore,  he  obeyed,  and 
later  on  he  received  light. 

It  would  be  a  wonderful  thing  if  all 
the  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  would  follow 
Adam's  example.  When  the  holy  proph- 
ets— the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church, 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


123 


the  Twelve  Apostles,  God's  anointed 
prophets,  seers,  and  revelators  upon  this 
earth — give  instructions  to  the  Church 
members,  if  we  would  all  render 
obedience  to  their  instructions,  having 
a  firm  conviction  in  our  hearts  that 
they  speak  the  word  of  God;  although 
we  do  not  have  the  answer  yet,  know- 
ing in  due  time  we  should  receive  light 
as  did  Father  Adam. 

It  is  my  testimony  that  such  would 
be  the  case.  I  am  not  only  willing  to 
follow  the  counsel  of  the  brethren  but 
also  glad  to  obey  God's  commandments 
as  given  by  his  prophets. 

We  are  told  that  there  are  two  masters 
in  this  world.  The  one  Master  is  Jesus 
Christ;  the  other  master  is  Satan.  The 
Savior  himself  taught: 

No  man  can  serve  two  masters:  for  either 
he  will  hate  the  one,  and  love  the  other; 
or  else  he  will  hold  to  the  one,  and  despise 
the  other.  Ye  cannot  serve  God  and  mam- 
mon. (Matt.  6:24.) 

Alma,  one  of  the  great  Book  of  Mor- 
mon prophets,  taught:  "For  every  man 
receiveth  wages  of  him  whom  he  listeth 
to  obey."  (Alma  3:27.)  If  we  list  to 
obey  Jesus  Christ,  as  our  Master,  we 
walk  in  the  light:  we  receive  peace,  hap- 
piness, prosperity,  and  the  other  good 
blessings  of  this  life,  and  in  the  world 
to  come,  eternal  life  in  our  Father's 
kingdom.  If  we  choose  to  follow  Luci- 
fer as  our  master,  we  shall  receive  the 
wages  which  are  his  to  bestow  upon  us. 
On  certain  occasions  those  who  obey 
Satan  receive  as  their  wages  misery, 
unhappiness,  sorrow,  and  disappoint- 
ment in  this  life;  and,  one  might  say, 
on  all  occasions,  they  experience  the 
loss  of  their  eternal  rewards  in  the 
world  to  come. 

One  of  the  most  apt  illustrations  of 
one  who  chose  to  follow  Lucifer,  that 
comes  to  my  mind  at  this  time,  was 
Cain.  We  read  in  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price: 

And  Cain  loved  Satan  more  than  God. 
And  Satan  commanded  him,  saying:  Make 
an  offering  unto  the  Lord.  (Moses  5:18.) 

Cain  was  obedient  to  Satan's  com- 


mandment. Of  course,  God  rejected 
that  offering,  and  Cain  became  very 
angry.  And  then  the  Lord  appeared 
unto  Cain,  and  said: 

.  .  .  Why  art  thou  wroth?  Why  is  thy 
countenance  fallen? 

If  thou  doest  well,  thou  shalt  be  accepted. 
And  if  thou  doest  not  well,  sin  lieth  at  the 
door,  and  Satan  desireth  to  have  thee;  and 
except  thou  shalt  hearken  unto  my  com- 
mandments, I  will  deliver  thee  up,  and  it 
shall  be  unto  thee  according  to  his  desire. 
(Ibid.,  5:22-23.) 

Yet  Cain  continued  to  love  Satan 
more  than  God.  He  entered  into  a 
secret  covenant  with  Satan  to  murder 
his  brother  Abel  for  gain.  "And  he 
gloried,  [so  the  scripture  says],  in  his 
wickedness."  (Ibid.,  5:31.)  And  after 
this  terrible  crime  had  been  committed, 
Cain  received  his  "wages  from  him 
whom  he  listeth  to  obey."  He  was  cursed 
by  the  Lord  with  a  dark  skin.  He  lost 
the  Holy  Priesthood.  He  lost  his  eternal 
soul,  becoming  a  son  of  perdition.  Thus, 
he  was  turned  over  to  Satan — his  master. 

God,  our  Eternal  Father,  is  very  much 
concerned  about  you  and  me  and  every 
one  of  his  children  here  upon  this 
earth  regarding  their  keeping  his  com- 
mandments. When  we  keep  his  com- 
mandments, it  gives  him  joy;  his  heart 
is  caused  to  rejoice.  When  we  disobey 
his  commandments,  his  heart  is  caused 
to  sorrow. 

Enoch  had  the  privilege  of  looking 
down  through  the  stream  of  time  in  a 
vision.  He  and  God  were  observing 
human  history  in  that  vision.  When 
the  scene  came  to  the  period  of  the 
time  of  Noah  and  they  were  observing 
what  was  taking  place  during  that  pe- 
riod, "God  wept."  (See  Ibid.,  7:28.) 
Enoch  was  very  much  surprised  to  see 
that  God  would  weep,  and  asked:  "Why 
is  it  that  God  weeps?  Everything  is 
happy  in  heaven,  everything  is  peaceful 
there,  everybody  worships  you."  In  fact, 
Enoch  could  see  no  reason  why  God 
should  weep;  but  God  said: 

.  .  .  Behold  these  thy  brethren;  they  are 
the  workmanship  of  mine  own  hands,  and 
I  gave  unto  them  their  knowledge,  in  the 


124 

Sunday,  April  6 

day  I  created  them;  and  in  the  Garden  of 
Eden,  gave  I  unto  man  his  agency. 

And  unto  thy  brethren  have  I  said,  and 
also  given  commandment,  that  they  should 
love  one  another  and  that  they  should 
choose  me,  their  Father;  but  behold,  they 
are  without  affection,  and  they  hate  their 
own  blood. 

.  .  .  among  all  the  workmanship  of  mine 
hands  there  has  not  been  so  great  wicked- 
ness as  among  thy  brethren.  (Ibid.,  7:32-33, 
36.) 

Because  God  knew  the  calamity  that 
should  come  to  those  people,  he  wept 
and  declared  that  the  heavens  also  wept 
over  them. 

In  his  conference  talk,  President  S. 
Dilworth  Young  gave  a  wonderful  il- 
lustration on  God's  concern  over  our 
obedience  which  I  would  like  to  repeat 
today. 

King  Saul  had  recently  come  to  the 
throne  when  an  invading  Bedouin  tribe 
from  the  Arabian  desert  came  into  the 
land  of  Canaan  and  molested  the 
Israelites.  The  voice  of  the  Lord  came 
to  Samuel,  the  prophet,  commanding 
him  to  command  King  Saul  to  take 
his  armies  and  go  in  pursuit  of  those 
invaders,  the  Amalekites,  and  destroy  or 
kill  every  man,  woman,  and  child,  both 
male  and  female,  and  all  the  animals, 
as  well  as  to  destroy  utterly  all  of  the 
properties.  Saul  received  this  com- 
mandment, went  in  pursuit  of  the 
Amalekites  but  did  not  fully  keep  the 
commandment.  He  brought  back  the 
fattest  and  best  of  the  sheep  and  cattle, 
as  spoils  of  war. 

God  was  very  displeased  with  Saul's 
disobedience;  and  the  voice  of  the  Lord 
spoke  to  Samuel  again,  telling  him  that 
Saul  had 

.  .  .  turned  back  from  following  me,  and 
hath  not  performed  my  commandments. 
(I  Samuel  15:11.) 

And  then  the  Lord  explained  to 
Samuel  what  Saul  had  done.  There- 
upon Samuel  went  out  to  meet  King 
Saul  as  he  was  coming  home  from  the 
war.  Saul  heard  that  Samuel  was 
coming,  so  probably  he  hid  the  cattle 
and  sheep  behind  a  hill.   When  those 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

two  men  met,  Saul  greeted  Samuel  as 
the  chosen  prophet  of  God,  and  said: 
"Blessed  be  thou  of  the  Lord:  I  have 
performed  the  commandment  of  the 
Lord"  (Ibid.,  15:13);  stating  that  he 
had  obeyed  God's  command  in  detail, 
having  completely  destroyed  the  Amale- 
kites. 

And  Samuel  said,  What  meaneth  then 
this  bleating  of  sheep  in  mine  ears,  and 
the  lowing  of  oxen  which  I  hear? 

And  Saul  said,  They  have  brought  .  .  . 
a  few  of  the  fattest  and  best  of  the  cattle 
and  sheep  for  the  purpose  of  offering 
sacrifice  unto  the  Lord  thy  God;  and  the 
rest  we  have  utterly  destroyed.  (Ibid., 
15:14-15.) 

And  then  Samuel  made  this  memo- 
rable statement: 

Hath  the  Lord  as  great  delight  in  burnt 
offerings  and  sacrifices,  as  in  obeying  the 
voice  of  the  Lord?  Behold,  to  obey  is  better 
than  sacrifice,  and  to  hearken  than  the  fat 
of  rams.  (Ibid.,  15:22.) 

I  would  that  every  Latter-day  Saint 
would  place  deeply  that  statement  in 
his  heart  and  keep  it  there  forever. 
Furthermore,  I  would  that  every  Church 
member  from  this  time  forward  would 
repeat  every  few  days:  "Behold,  to  obey 
is  better  than  sacrifice,  and  to  hearken 
than  the  fat  of  rams";  and  obedience  is 
even  better  than  the  wealth  of  this 
world  or  than  any  position  or  honor 
that  mortal  man  can  bestow  upon  us. 
Best  of  all  our  attainments,  therefore, 
is  to  obey  the  voice  of  God  in  all  things 
and  at  all  times. 

We  have  been  told  by  the  holy 
prophets  throughout  the  entire  course  of 
history  that  we  will  receive  our  bless- 
ings from  the  hand  of  God  according 
to  the  obedience  that  we  render  to  his 
holy  laws.  Therefore,  the  rewards  and 
punishments  are,  one  might  say,  based 
upon  a  scientific  formula.  The  Lord 
revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith: 

There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in 
heaven  before  the  foundations  of  this  world, 
upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated — 

And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  from 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


125 


God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law  upon 
which  it  is  predicated.  (D.  &  C.  130:20-21.) 

God,  our  Eternal  Father,  is  not  as 
greatly  concerned  over  which  race  of 
people  we  belong  to  nor  over  the  color 
of  our  skins  as  he  is  over  our  righteous- 
ness. He  is  not  concerned  with  how 
wealthy  we  are — whether  we  drive  a 
Cadillac  or  walk;  nor  does  he  care  to 
which  family  we  belong;  but  he  is 
deeply  concerned  over  what  kind  of 
hearts  we  have.  In  other  words,  it 
makes  a  vital  difference  to  him  whether 
we  render  obedience  to  his  command- 
ments or  not. 

The  question  ofttimes  comes  to  the 
minds  of  thinking  people,  especially 
young  people:  "What  rewards  come  as 
a  result  of  obedience  to  God's  com- 
mandments?" Even  from  the  very  be- 
ginning, and  in  every  gospel  dispensa- 
tion, the  followers  of  Jesus  Christ  have 
been  told  by  the  holy  prophets  that 
those  who  render  obedience  to  God's 
commandments  eventually  will  find  rest 
in  the  presence  of  the  Lord.  There 
they  will  receive  a  blessed  immortality. 
In  fact,  in  the  very  beginning  when 
Adam  and  his  posterity  began  to  popu- 
late the  earth,  the  scriptures  report: 

And  the  Lord  God  called  upon  men  by 
the  Holy  Ghost  everywhere  and  commanded 
them  that  they  should  repent; 

And  as  many  as  believed  in  the  Son, 
and  repented  of  their  sins,  should  be  saved; 
and  as  many  as  believed  not  and  repented 
not,  should  be  damned;  and  the  words  went 
forth  out  of  the  mouth  of  God  in  a  firm 
decree;  wherefore  they  must  be  fulfilled. 
(Moses  5:14-15.) 

When  you  and  I  became  members  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  and  were  baptized,  we  entered 
into  a  covenant  to  keep  God's  com- 
mandments— all  of  his  commandments. 
We  did  not  covenant  to  obey  just  the 
gospel  laws  that  meet  our  convenience, 
the  ones  that  we  like  to  keep,  but  all 
of  God's  commandments. 

When  we  received  the  Holy  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood,  we  received  it  with 
an  oath  and  a  covenant;  and  the  oath 
and  covenant  is  that  we  will  live  "... 


by  every  word  that  proceedeth  forth 
out  of  the  mouth  of  God."  (D.  &  C. 
98:11.)  Jesus  Christ  has  promised  that 
if  we  do  so  all  that  the  Father  has  will 
be  given  unto  us.  (Ibid.,  84:38.) 

Now,  what  does  the  Father  have? 
The  greatest  blessing  that  he  has  to 
give  to  his  faithful  children,  according 
to  his  own  declaration,  is  eternal  life. 
(Ibid.,  14:7.)  Also,  he  has  called  this 
gift  exaltation  in  the  presence  of  God. 
Godhood  is  another  way  to  describe 
that  same  gift.  (Ibid.,  132:19-20.)  There- 
fore, all  those  who  love  God  and  keep 
his  commandments  will  receive  eternal 
life,  godhood,  or  exaltation,  which  means 
that  they  will  rise  in  the  resurrection 
and  enter  into  celestial  glory  to  be  made 
joint  heirs  with  Jesus  Christ  and  receive 
all  that  the  Father  has. 

I  am  as  thoroughly  convinced  as  I 
am  that  I  am  standing  here  speaking  to 
you  people,  in  fact,  I  know  that  if  you 
and  I  will  keep  God's  commandments 
day  by  day,  walking  humbly  with  our 
God,  with  "a  broken  heart  and  a  con- 
trite spirit,"  as  the  Lord  has  commanded 
us  to  do  (Micah  6:8;  III  Nephi  9:20), 
eventually  we  will  hear  the  voice  of 
God  invite  us  into  his  presence;  and, 
as  the  scriptures  state,  we  shall  "... 
pass  by  the  angels,  and  the  gods,  which 
are  set  there,  to  .  .  .  [our]  exaltation 
and  glory  in  all  things,  ..."  (D.  &  C. 
132:19.) 

If  we  prove  faithful  in  keeping  all 
of  God's  commandments,  we  shall  re- 
ceive a  glorious  celestialization,  a  com- 
parable degree  of  happiness,  joy,  peace, 
and  power  with  that  which  God,  the 
Eternal  Father,  and  the  Only  Begotten 
Son  have  attained.  In  other  words,  all 
that  the  Father  has  will  be  given  unto 
us.  This  is  what  is  in  store  for  the  faith- 
ful Saints,  for  those  who  love  God  and 
keep  his  commandments. 

I  humbly  ask  our  Father  in  heaven  to 
bless  every  Latter-day  Saint  in  the 
world;  that  all  of  us  will  vow  to  keep 
God's  commandments  and  that  we  will 
walk  by  every  word  that  proceedeth 
forth  from  his  mouth  from  this  time 
forward.  I  do  so,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  6 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  heard  Elder  Milton  R. 
Hunter,  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 
We  shall  now  be  favored  with  remarks 
from  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee. 

I  cannot  explain  my  stumbling  over 
that  middle  initial,  except  it  be  through 
mental  weariness,  that  sounds  better 


Third  Day 

than  advancing  age.  Certainly,  I  am 
sure  that  it  was  not  because  of  the  lack 
of  nearness  to  Brother  Lee.  No  man  is 
nearer  to  us  in  the  commencement  of 
the  Welfare,  even  before  Brother  Lee 
was  called  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
than  Harold  B.  Lee,  who  will  now 
speak  to  us. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Iwant  President  McKay  to  know  that 
it  does  not  make  any  difference  to 
me  whether  he  remembers  my  name 
or  my  middle  initial;  all  I  want  him  to 
know  is  that  I  want  to  be  counted  as 
one  who  loves  the  Lord,  and  who  loves 
our  President,  as  our  prophet,  seer,  and 
revelator. 

I  am  sure  that  because  of  the  lateness 
of  the  hour,  and  the  desire  of  all  of  us 
that  we  have  a  closing  word  from  Presi- 
dent McKay  and  his  blessing  before 
this  conference  closes,  you  will  indulge 
me  the  discretion  of  not  presuming  to 
discourse  on  what  I  may  have  prepared 
to  say  at  this  conference.  Therefore,  I 
shall  close  my  remarks  by  only  bearing 
my  testimony. 

With  all  my  heart  I  welcome  four 
great,  noble  souls  to  new  positions 
among  the  General  Authorities  of  this 
Church:  LeGrand  Richards,  Joseph  L. 
Wirthlin,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  and  Carl 
W.  Buehner.  I  think  there  is  no  man 
or  no  person  in  this  Church  happier 
than  I  at  the  changes  which  have  come 
to  give  these  men  their  present  posi- 
tions. 

I  am  thinking  back,  to  that  brief 
moment  up  in  Idaho,  when  Brother 
LeGrand  Richards  lay  at  death's  door. 
The  doctors  had  thought  that  Brother 
Richards  might  not  be  with  us  long, 
because  of  a  serious  heart  attack.  The 
late  Bishop  Marvin  O.  Ashton  and  I 
drove  up  one  Sunday  afternoon  to  Grace, 
Idaho,  to  visit  him.  In  a  brief  moment, 
when  my  hands  were  on  the  head  of 
Brother  Richards,  I  knew  that  the  Lord 
loved  him  and  that  he  was  going  to 


live.  The  certainty  of  that  was  as  sure 
to  me  then  as  it  is  today  that  he  was 
spared  for  a  great  and  glorious  mission. 

The  Prophet  Moroni  enjoined  his 
people  to  seek  for  the  great  gift  of  faith 
in  words  that,  as  nearly  as  I  can  recall, 
were  something  like  this: 

.  .  .  Faith  is  things  which  are  hoped  for 
and  not  seen;  wherefore,  dispute  not  be- 
cause ye  see  not,  for  ye  receive  no  witness 
until  after  the  trial  of  your  faith.  (Ether 
12:6.) 

Eleven  years  ago  this  morning,  I 
climbed  the  steps  and  took  my  place 
on  the  stand  where  Brother  Richards  is 
today.  In  eleven  years,  to  the  day,  I 
have  moved  from  the  arm  rest  to  my 
left,  to  the  arm  rest  to  my  right.  That 
call  was  an  overpowering  experience,  as 
only  these,  my  brethren,  know,  but 
the  greatest  experience  was  not  eleven 
years  ago  today,  but  eleven  years  ago 
the  week  following  today. 

It  was  on  the  day  or  so  following  con- 
ference that  President  Stephen  L  Rich- 
ards, who  was  then  chairman  of  the 
Church  radio  and  publicity  committee, 
approached  me  and  said,  "Brother  Lee, 
next  Sunday  is  Easter,  and  we  have  de- 
cided to  ask  you  to  give  the  Sunday 
night  radio  talk,  the  Easter  talk,  on  the 
resurrection  of  the  Lord."  And  then  he 
added,  "You  understand  now,  of  course, 
that  as  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  you  are  to  be  one  of  the  special 
witness  of  the  life  and  mission  of  the 
Savior  and  of  that  great  event."  The 
most  overwhelming  of  all  the  things 
that  have  happened  to  me  was  to  begin 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


127 


to  realize  what  a  call  into  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  meant. 

During  the  days  which  followed,  I 
locked  myself  in  one  of  the  rooms  over 
in  the  Church  Office  building,  and 
there  I  read  the  story  of  the  life  of  the 
Savior.  As  I  read  the  events  of  his  life, 
and  particularly  the  events  leading  up  to 
and  of  the  crucifixion,  and  then  of  the 
resurrection,  I  discovered  that  some- 
thing was  happening  to  me.  I  was  not 
just  reading  a  story;  it  seemed  actually 
as  though  I  was  living  the  events;  and 
I  was  reading  them  with  a  reality  the 
like  of  which  I  had  never  before  experi- 
enced. And  when,  on  the  Sunday  night 
following,  after  I  had  delivered  my  brief 
talk  and  then  declared,  simply,  "As  one 
of  the  humblest  among  you,  I,  too,  know 
that  these  things  are  true,  that  Jesus 
died  and  was  resurrected  for  the  sins 
of  the  world,"  I  was  speaking  from  a  full 
heart,  because  I  had  come  to  know 
that  week,  with  a  certainty  which  I 
never  before  had  known. 

I  do  not  know  whether  that  expe- 
rience was  the  realization  of  the  work- 
ings of  the  gift  of  the  more  sure  word 
of  prophecy,  but  this  much  I  came  to 
know:  neither  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  nor  any  who  have  followed 
since,  have  ever  received  a  personal 
visitation  from  the  Master,  nor  have 
they  ever  received  a  special  witness  of 
his  life  and  mission,  except  they  have 
had  a  supreme  faith.  Until  that 
faith  had  been  tried  and  tested,  only 
then  did  they  receive  the  witness. 

This  much  more  I  know,  and  bear 


humble  witness,  that  only  shall  I  re- 
ceive a  greater  witness  than  I  today 
have,  that  he  is,  when  my  faith  through 
trial  shall  have  become  the  more  per- 
fect. - 

I  know  with  all  my  soul  today,  God 
being  my  witness,  that  the  Savior  died, 
was  resurrected,  and  lives  today,  so  close 
to  us  in  the  councils  of  the  priesthood, 
so  near  to  those  whom  he  has  chosen 
as  his  mouthpieces,  that  if  they  will  but 
open  their  hearts  and  minds,  they  may 
know  with  a  surety  that  they  have  done 
his  will  and  that  he  has  spoken. 

I  am  thinking  today  of  the  quoted 
testimony  of  a  great  defender  of  the 
faith  recorded  in  Brother  Barker's  splen- 
did priesthood  lessons  which  we  are 
now  studying  in  the  priesthood  quo- 
rums, when  he  told  how  his  testimony 
came.  This  is  what  that  faithful  Cyprian 
said:  "Into  my  heart,  purified  of  its 
sins,  there  entered  a  light  which  came 
from  on  high,  and  then,  immediately,  in 
a  marvelous  manner,  I  saw  certainty 
succeed  doubt." 

God  help  us,  as  the  sons  and  daugh- 
ters of  our  Heavenly  Father,  that  we, 
having  the  right  to  the  witness  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  shall  by  faith  so  purify 
our  hearts  that  the  light  from  on  high 
may  enter  into  them,  that  in  a  marvel- 
ous way  we,  too,  may  see  all  doubt  flee 
in  the  face  of  absolute  certainty.  God 
help  us  to  this  end,  and  keep  us  in  the 
faith,  worthy  of  the  testimonies  of  the 
reality  of  the  mysteries  of  heaven  and 
godliness,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
His  address  marks  the  last  of  a  series 
of  addresses  given  during  this  confer- 
ence by  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church,  all  of  whom  you  have  heard, 
excepting  Elder  Stayner  Richards,  who 
is  presiding  over  the  British  Mission. 
Elder  Romney,  as  you  know,  gave  the 
Church  of  the  Air  address  this  morning. 
Thus  comes  to  a  close  a  great  confer- 


ence, another  glorious  opportunity  that 
the  Church  has  had  of  meeting  together, 
making  new  resolutions,  receiving  timely 
instructions,  and  sustaining  the  Authori- 
ties of  the  Church.  The  weather  has 
been  most  propitious.  The  attitude  of 
the  individuals  who  have  assembled  in 
the  various  gatherings,  including  the 
Primary  conference,  has  been  hopeful, 
promising,  eager;  that  of  the  congrega- 
tions, most  responsive. 


128 

Sunday,  April  6 

The  messages  of  the  General  Authori- 
ties have  all  been  timely  and  inspira- 
tional; the  cooperation  of  the  city  offi- 
cials, ready  and  efficient.  The  assistance 
rendered  by  the  various  radio  stations, 
here  in  our  own  city,  in  Idaho,  Colorado, 
Oregon,  Nevada,  Arizona,  and  Mexico, 
has  been  the  means  of  permitting  tens 
of  thousands  of  people  to  hear  the  pro- 
ceedings of  this  the  122nd  Annual  Gen- 
eral Conference  of  the  Church.  To  all 
we  extend  words  of  appreciation,  heart- 
felt expressions  of  gratitude,  for  all  com- 
bined to  make  this  a  most  memorable 
occasion. 

To  our  singers,  the  Brigham  Young 
University  chorus  of  young  people,  to 
our  own  Tabernacle  Choir,  we  again 
express  our  thanks. 

What  a  glorious  opportunity  we  have 
had  in  listening  to  these  two  great 
organizations.  To  our  choir,  I  believe 
I  will  express  not  only  your  gratitude 
but  also  that  of  the  entire  city  and  of 
the  state,  for  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir  is  now  an  institution,  not  just  an 
organization,  appreciated  by  every  mem- 
ber of  the  Church,  and  I  think  by  every 
fair-minded  citizen  of  our  glorious  state. 
God  bless  them,  and  those  young  people 
who  came  up  from  the  Brigham  Young 
University  to  sing  at  the  opening  ses- 
sions of  conference. 

I  have  much  in  my  heart  to  say  to 
you,  but  I  will  conclude  by  calling 
your  attention  to  the  words  of  a  very 
practical  servant  of  the  Lord  who  was 
blessed  to  labor  in  the  companionship 
and  shadow  of  our  Lord  and  Savior 
Jesus  Christ.  Indeed,  I  think  he  is  his 
own  brother.   James  said: 

"What  doth  it  profit,  my  brethren, 
though  a  man  say  he  hath  faith,  and 
have  not  works?  can  faith  save  him? 

"If  a  brother  or  sister  be  naked,  and 
destitute  of  daily  food,  And  one  of  you 
say  unto  them,  Depart  in  peace,  be  ye 
warmed  and  filled;  notwithstanding  ye 
give  them  not  those  things  which  are 
needful  to  the  body;  what  doth  it  profit? 

"Even  so  faith,  if  it  hath  not  works, 
is  dead,  being  alone. 

"Yea,  a  man  may  say,  Thou  hast 
faith,  and  I  have  works:  shew  me  thy 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

faith  without  thy  works,  and  I  will 
shew  thee  my  faith  by  my  works." 
(James  2:14-18.) 

As  we  depart  now  to  go  to  our  various 
homes,  let  us  make  real  the  good  feel- 
ings that  have  been  aroused  in  our  souls. 
Let  us  not  permit  to  evaporate  from  our 
minds  and  feelings  the  good  resolutions 
we  have  formed.  First,  let  us  resolve 
that  from  now  on  we  are  going  to  be 
men  of  higher  and  more  sterling  char- 
acter, more  conscious  of  our  own  weak- 
nesses, more  kind  and  charitable  towards 
others'  failings. 

Let  us  resolve  that  we  shall  practise 
more  self-control  in  our  homes,  control 
our  tempers  and  our  tongues,  and  con- 
trol our  feelings,  that  they  may  not 
wander  beyond  the  bounds  of  right  and 
purity,  more  seeking  the  presence  of 
God,  realizing  how  dependent  we  are 
upon  him  for  success  in  this  life,  and 
particularly  for  success  in  the  positions 
we  hold  in  the  Church. 

As  we  leave  this  conference,  let  us  not 
only  resolve  to  be  more  loyal  to  our 
quorums  but  more  devoted  to  the  duties 
assigned  us,  one  of  which  is  attendance 
at  our  quorum  meetings,  in  order  to 
strengthen  that  group  and  increase  the 
power  of  fellowship  and  brotherhood, 
more  loyal  to  our  country.  This  is  an 
election  year.  Upon  you  devolves  the 
responsibility  of  choosing  our  servants  in 
government,  for  whoever  is  elected  to 
preside  over  this  country  as  President,  as 
senators,  members  of  the  House  of  Rep- 
resentatives, are  your  servants,  not  your 
rulers.  And  do  not  be  slothful  on  the 
day  of  election,  but  come  out  and  exer- 
cise your  right  and  privilege  as  a  citizen 
of  this  great  republic.  What  doth  it 
profit  though  a  man  say  he  hath  faith 
not  works?  Here  we  should  prove  our- 
selves loyal  citizens. 

As  we  depart,  let  us  be  more  deter- 
mined to  make  beautiful  homes,  to  be 
kinder  husbands,  more  thoughtful 
wives,  more  exemplary  to  our  children, 
determined  that  in  our  homes  we  are 
going  to  have  just  a  little  taste  of  heaven 
here  on  this  earth. 

With  these  resolves  in  mind,  with  all 
my  heart  I  say,  fellow  workers,  God 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


129 


bless  you.  Cherish  in  your  hearts  the 
testimony  of  truth,  make  it  as  solid  and 
as  firm  and  unwavering  as  the  fixed 
stars  in  the  heavens.  May  there  come 
into  everyone's  heart  and  in  all  our 
homes  the  true  spirit  of  Christ  our  Re- 
deemer, whose  reality,  whose  inspiring 
guidance  I  know  to  be  real. 

God  bless  you,  keep  you,  and  magni- 
fy you  in  the  eyes  of  your  associates! 
May  he  make  more  powerful  than  ever 
before  in  the  history  of  this  Church  the 
influence  of  this  divine  organization, 
that  its  potency  may  be  felt  throughout 
the  world,  and  men's  hearts  turned  to 
serve  him  as  they  have  never  before 
been  influenced,  that  we  may  avert  the 
terrible  threatening  war,  and  peace  be 
established  among  the  nations  of  the 
world,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  favor 
us  with  the  Hallelujah  Chorus  from  the 
"Mount  of  Olives." 

The  Closing  prayer  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Golden  H.  Hale,  formerly 
President  of  the  Samoan  Mission,  after 
which  this  Conference  will  adjourn 
sine  die. 

The  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 
Conference  will  convene  in  this  build- 
ing at  7  o'clock  tonight.  All  Sunday 
School  workers  should  be  in  attendance. 

The  Choir  music  for  today's  sessions, 
as  you  know,  has  been  furnished  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall  conducting,  and  Elder  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

The  Temple  Presidencies  will  please 
keep  in  mind  our  meeting  following  the 
close  of  this  session. 


of  Olives,"  after  which  the  closing 
prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Golden  H. 
Hale,  formerly  president  of  the  Samoan 
Mission. 

Conference  adjourned  sine  die. 


The  congregational  singing  of  the 
Conference  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall,  Conductor,  and  Richard  P. 
Condie,  Assistant  Conductor,  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir. 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  was 
in  attendance  at  the  Sunday  Sessions, 
a  chorus  from  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
was  present  at  the  Saturday,  afternoon 
meeting,  and  furnished  musical  num- 
bers at  those  meetings. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  male  chorus 
provided  the  choral  music  for  the  Gen- 
eral Priesthood  meeting  Saturday  eve- 
ning. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses,  under  the  direction  of 
Norman  Gulbrandsen,  Crawford  Gates, 
and  Newel  Weight,  furnished  musical 
numbers  at  the  Friday  morning  and 
afternoon  meetings. 

Saturday  morning  the  singing  was  en- 
tirely by  the  congregation,  Richard  P. 
Condie  conducting. 

The  music  of  the  Church  of  the  Air 
broadcast  and  also  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
and  Organ  broadcast,  Sunday  morning 
was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall, 
Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ,  and 
the  spoken  word  was  by  Richard  L. 
Evans. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on 
the  great  organ  were  played  by  Alex- 
ander W.  Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper, 
and  Roy  A.  Darley. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  The 
Hallelujah  Chorus  from  "The  Mount 


Stenographic  notes  of  the  conference 
were  taken  by  Frank  W.  Otterstrom 
and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson 
Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


Index 

Page 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph    4 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present   1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained    109 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft    57 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E   63 

Buehner,  Bishop  Carl  W   119 

Changes  in  Church  Officers,  and  Stake,  Ward  and  Branch  Organizations    4 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   92 

Christiansen,  Elder  EIRay  L   120 

Church  Auditing  Committee  Report    10 

Church  of  the  Air    88 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   80 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   95 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   108 

(Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers) 

Cowley,  Elder  Matthew    102 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   67 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   88,  92 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   26 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting    3 

Financial  Report   7 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present   1 

General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained    109 

General  Priesthood  Meeting    76 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R   122 

Isaacson,  Bishop  Thorpe  B   16 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   71 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W   20 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A   100 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B   126 

Longden,  Elder  John    98 

Morris,  Elder  George  Q   30 

Moyle,  Elder  Henry  D   35 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R   55 

McKay,  President  David  0   11 

Gratitude  11,  Encouragement  Justified  11,  First:  Quorums  of  Priesthood 

11,  Second:  Relief  Society  12,  Third:  Sunday  School  12,  Fourth,  Y.M.M.LA. 

12,  Fifth:  Y.W.M.LA.  12,  Sixth:  Primary  Association  12,  Genealogical 
Society  13,  Causes  of  Apprehension  13,  Faith  in  God  15. 

McKay,  President  David  0   85 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 


132  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Page 

McKay,  President  David  O  •   127 

(Closing  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  0  3,  4,  10,  11,  24,  25,  26,  30,  41,  42,  62,  75,  76,  79, 

82,  87,  94,  95,  107,  108,  111,  115,  119,  126,  129 

McKay,  Elder  Thomas  E   24 

Obituaries   6 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E   104 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers   109 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General    76 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L    43 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L    82 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand    Ill 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G   88 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    62 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting    42 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G   37 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding    26 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma    74 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L   49 

Statistical  Report    10 

Stover,  Elder  Walter    77 

Sunday  Morning  General  Conference  Session    93 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers    109 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    92 

Third  Day— Afternoon  Meeting    108 

Third  Day— Church  of  the  Air    88 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A   32 

Wirthlin,  Bishop  Joseph  L   115 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E   68 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar    52 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth    28 


Education  Lives  As  Long  As  You  Read 

GOOD  BOOKS 

The  Gospel  and  Man's  Relationship  to  Deity. ...$1.50 

B.  H.  Roberts 


New  Witness  for  Christ  in  America 

Francis  W.  Kirkham 

Volume  I  $2.75 

Evidence  of  Divine  Power  in  the  "Coming  Forth"  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon 

Volume  II   $2.75 

Attempts  to  prove  the  "Book  of  Mormon"  man-made 

Witnesses  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  $2.25 

Preston  Nibley 

Doctrine  and  Covenants  Commentary  $5.00 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Autobiography  of  Parley  P.  Pratt  $3.00 

Key  to  Theology   $1.50 

Parley  P.  Pratt 

J.  Golden  Kimball  $3.50 

Claude  Richards 

New  Witness  for  God-Vol.  I  $2.25 

B.  H.  Roberts 

Treasures  to  Share  $2.00 

Melvin  Westenskow 


ALL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 
44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


Books  of  lasting  inspiration  by  our  Church  leaders 


On  the  Way  to  Immortality  and  Eternal  Life..$3.50 


J.  Reuben  Clark 

Priesthood  and  Church  Government  $2.50 

John  A.  Widtsoe 

Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  $3.50 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Essentials  in  Church  History  $4.00 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Jesus  the  Christ-Cloth  Edition  $3.00 

James  E.  Talmage 

Articles  of  Faith— Missionary  Edition  $1.50 

James  E.  Talmage 

Gospel  Standards  $2.25 

Heber  J.  Grant 

Sharing  the  Gospel  With  Others  $2.50 

George  Albert  Smith 

Word  of  Wisdom   $2.75 

John  A.  Widtsoe 

Discourses  of  Brigham  Young   $3.00 

Compiled  by  John  A.  Widtsoe 

The  Spoken  Word  $2.00 

Richard  L.  Evans 

Unto  the  Hills  $2.00 

Richard  L  Evans 

This  Day  and  Always   $2.00 

Richard  L  Evans 

At  This  Same  Hour  $2.00 

Richard  L.  Evans 

Life  of  Joseph  F.  Smith  $3.00 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 


ALL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


