ONE  HUNDRED  SIXTH 

Annual 

(Conference 


OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

April  4,  5,  6,  1936 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

PRINTED  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA 


A  THRILLING  STORY 

of  Gentury  One  of 

CHURCH  HISTORY 

ERE  is  a  new  story  of  "Mormonism,"  told  with  a  com- 
pleteness and  charm  that  will  thrill  Latter-day  Saints 
with  a  pride  of  achievement  and  at  the  same  time 
win  the  admiration  of  the  critic,  be  he  friend  or  foe.  In  a 
COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH,  B.  H. 
Roberts  has  done  a  masterful  piece  of  research  and  has  set 
down  the  record  of  Century  One — 1830  to  1930 — in  a  bril- 
liant appraisal  of  momentous  events.  The  reader  with  a 
sentimental  interest  will  be  fascinated  with  this  narrative 
of  truth  stranger  than  fiction;  the  reader  who  approaches 
the  new  work  with  the  critical  vision  of  the  historian  will 
find  it  fair  in  statement,  authentic  in  fact,  copious  in  detail 
and  sound  in  judgment. 

A  COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH  was 
written  by  Elder  Roberts  at  the  instance  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  with  a  commission  to  make  it  exhaus- 
tively complete,  from  the  remotest  beginnings  to  the  close 
of  the  Centennial  Conference  of  April  6,  1930.  The  final 
volume  ends  with  an  account  of  the  Conference  itself,  mak- 
ing the  history  technically  inclusive  of  all  that  happened  in 
Century  One  of  the  organized  existence  of  the  Church.  Thus 
it  is  a  fitting  commemoration  of  one  hundred  years  of  strug- 
gle and  achievement. 

This  monumental  work  is  not  to  be  confused  with  any  former 
history,  journal  or  chronicle.  Though  its  nucleus  is  the  his- 
tory of  "Mormonism"  published  a  few  years  ago  in 
AMERICANA,  running  serially  for  six  years  through  that 
magazine,  yet  this  History  is  NEW — new  in  its  wealth  of 
material,  new  in  method  of  treatment  and  new  in  its  physical 
representation  of  the  book  maker's  art. 

Cash  Price  $30.00 

For  further  information  address  your  inquiry  to 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


One  Hundred  and  Sixth  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 

The  One  Hundred  and  Sixth  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah,  Saturday,  Sunday,  and  Monday,  April  4,  5,  and  6,  1936. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  the  pro- 
ceedings of  all  the  sessions  of  the  Conference  were  broadcast  by  radio 
for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

From  9:30  to  10:30  a.  m.,  Sunday,  April  5,  a  program  of  choral 
and  organ  music  was  broadcast  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  over 
the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  network;  and  from  11 :00  to  11 :30 
a.  m.  a  Church  of  the  Air  program  was  broadcast  over  the  same  System 
throughout  the  United  States  and  Canada,  and  by  short  wave  to  other 
countries.  As  a  feature  of  the  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast  each  of 
the  three  members  of  the  First  Presidency  addressed  the  congregation 
assembled  in  the  Tabernacle  and  the  radio  audience. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  at  each  of  the  sessions  of  the 
Conference. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and 
David  O.  McKay. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard, 
John  A.  Widtsoe,  *,  Charles  A.  Callis,  **. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  ***,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Levi  Edgar 
Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  John  H.  Taylor,  and 
Rufus  K.  Hardy. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wells. 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants :  Andrew  Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

♦Joseph  F.  Merrill  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 
♦♦Alonzo  A.  Hinckley  absent  on  account  of  illness. 
***J.  Golden  Kimball  absent  on  account  of  illness. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors  and  high  councilors  from 
the  various  Stakes. 

Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  Wards  and  their  counselors,  and  high  priests, 
seventies  and  elders  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  and  General,  Stake, 
and  Ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations. 

Mission  Presidents:  Don  B.  Colton,  Eastern  States;  Bryant  S. 
Hinckley,  Northern  States ;  Wilf  ord  W.  Richards,  North  Central  States ; 
Elias  S.  Woodruff,  Central  States ;  James  M.  Kirkham,  East  Central 
States ;  LeGrand  Richards,  Southern  States ;  James  M.  Peterson,  Texas ; 
Joseph  J.  Daynes,  Western  States;  Nicholas  G.  Smith,  California; 
Joseph  Quinney,  Jr.,  Northwestern  States;  Abel  S.  Rich,  Canada; 
Harold  W.  Pratt,  Mexico;  Joseph  S.  Peery,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah. 

FIRST  DAY 

MORNING  MEETING 

The  opening  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at 
10:00  o'clock,  Saturday  morning,  April  5. 

Practically  every  seat  in  the  large  tabernacle  auditorium  and  gal- 
leries was  occupied  as  the  time  arrived  for  opening  the  meeting. 

The  Hyrum  Stake  Choir  of  more  than  300  voices,  under  the  lead- 
ership of  W.  H.  Terry,  furnished  the  music  for  this  session. 

As  an  opening  number,  the  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn, 
"High  on  the  Mountain  Top." 

Elder  Willard  L.  Jones,  President  of  the  Moapa  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

"The  Sweet  Story  of  Old"  (Parks),  was  sung  by  the  Hyrum 
Stake  Choir. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 
Read  the  financial  and  statistical  report  of  the  Church,  as  follows : 

FINANCIAL  STATEMENT 

The  expenditures  by  the  Church  for  the  year  1935  : 
Stake  and  Ward  Purposes : 

There  has  been  returned  from  the  tithes  to  the  stakes  and 
wards  for  the  construction  of  ward  and  stake  meeting 
houses  .,  $ 

For  ward  maintenance  expenses  

For  stake  maintenance  expenses  


317,386.04 
741,196.79 
229,355.60 


$1,287,938.43 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


3 


Education : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  of  Church  school  system  $  632,128.59 

Temples : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  temples.— $  268,857.59 
Charities : 

For  the  care  of  the  worthy  poor  and  other  charitable  pur- 
poses, including  hospital  treatment   $  183,809.71 

Missionary  Work: 

F or  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  all  the  missions,  and 
for  the  erection  of  places  of  worship  and  other  build- 
ings in  the  missions  $  712,027.52 

Total  $3,084,761.84 

which  has  been  taken  from  the  tithes  and  other  Church 
funds  and  returned  by  the  Trustee-in-Trust  to  the 
saints  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  the  stakes 
and  wards,  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of 
Church  schools  and  temples,  for  charities  and  mission 
activities. 

Other  Charities: 

In  addition  to  charities  paid  from  the  tithes  as  before 
named,  there  has  also  been  disbursed  the  fast  offerings, 
other  charities  and  assistance  rendered  by  the  Relief 
Society  in  the  sum  of  $402,938.94,  which  amount, 
added  to  the  $183,809.71  paid  from  the  tithes,  makes 
the  total  charity  assistance  rendered  by  the  Church  $  586,748.65 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  of  Missionaries : 

There  has  been  collected  by  the  various  wards  of  the 
Church  and  paid  to  missionaries  to  assist  in  their 
maintenance  $  82,967.50 

Average  cost  per  missionary  in  the  missions  during  the  year 
1935,  $29.02  per  month,  or  a  total  of  $348.24  per  year 
per  missionary.  There  was  an  average  of  1439  mis- 
sionaries in  the  various  missions  during  1935,  making 
a  total  average  expense  for  the  year,  (348.24  x  1439) ..$  501,1 17.36 

Estimated  average  earnings  per  missionary,  $900.00  per 
year  x  1439,  average  number  of  missionaries,  makes 
an  estimated  total  of  what  these  missionaries  might 
have  earned  if  at  home  of  $1,295,100.00 

making  a  total  estimated  contribution  of  mission- 
aries and  their  families  to  the  Church  for  the  preach- 
ing of  the  Gospel  $1,879,184.86 

STATISTICS  AND  OTHER  DATA  COMPILED  FROM  THE  ANNUAL  REPORTS 
FOR  THE  YEAR  1935 

There  were  on  December  31,  1935  :  1 15  Stakes  of  Zion ;  977  Wards  ; 
87  Independent  Branches;  38  Dependent  Branches,  or  a  total  of  1,102 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


wards  and  branches  in  the  stakes  of  Zion ;  also,  32  missions  (including 
the  European  Mission),  900  mission  branches,  and  209  districts. 


CHURCH  MEMBERSHIP 

Stakes  595,071 

Missions  151,313 


Total  746,384 

CHURCH  GROWTH 

Children  blessed  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  Church  in  the 

stakes  and  missions   20,973 

Children  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions  14,249 

Converts  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions   7,535 

Number  of  long-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  Dec.  31,  1935   1,682 

Number  of  short-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  Dec.  31,  1935   29 

Number  of  local  missionaries   64 


Total  number  of  missionaries  on  foreign  missions   1,775 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  stakes   1,557 


Total  Missionaries   3,332 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  at  the  Missionary 

Home    871 

Persons  recommended  to  the  temples  from  the  stakes  76,519 


SOCIAL  STATISTICS 

Birth  rate,  27.9  per  thousand 

Marriage  rate,  16  per  thousand 

Death  rate,  7.3  per  thousand 

Families  owning  their  own  homes,  59.7% 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS,  STAKE,  WARD  AND  BRANCH 
ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  LAST  OCTOBER  CONFERENCE 

New  Mission  Presidents  Appointed: 

Wallace  F.  Toronto  appointed  President  of  the  Czechoslovak 
Mission  to  succeed  Arthur  Gaeth. 

Octave  F.  Ursenbach  appointed  President  of  the  French  Mission 
to  succeed  Daniel  J.  Lang. 

Bryant  S.  Hinckley  appointed  President  of  the  Northern  States 
Mission  to  succeed  George  S.  Romney  (Deceased). 

William  M.  Waddoups  appointed  President  of  the  Samoan  Mis- 
sion to  succeed  William  G.  Sears. 

Emil  Dunn  appointed  President  of  the  Tongan  Mission  to  succeed 
Reuben  M.  Wiberg. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


5 


(Castle  H.  Murphy  has  been  released  as  President  of  the  Hawaiian 
Mission  but  no  one  has  been  appointed  to  succeed  him.) 

New  Stake  Organized: 

Bonneville  Stake  created  by  the  division  of  Liberty  Stake.  The 
new  stake  is  composed  of  the  Thirty-third,  Emigration,  LeGrand, 
Yale  and  Yalecrest  Wards;  leaving  the  First,  Second,  Third,  Eighth, 
Ninth,  Tenth,  Thirty-first,  Liberty  and  Harvard  Wards  in  the  Liberty 
Stake. 

New  Stake  Presidents  Appointed: 

Joseph  L.  Wirthlin  appointed  President  of  the  Bonneville  Stake. 

George  E.  Jorgensen  appointed  President  of  the  Carbon  Stake  to 
succeed  Arthur  W.  Horsley. 

Milton  Twitchell  appointed  President  of  the  Garfield  Stake  to 
succeed  Thomas  A.  King. 

J.  Percy  Goddard  succeeded  Bryant  S.  Hinckley  as  President  of 
the  Liberty  Stake. 

James  L.  Hatch  appointed  President  of  the  Panguitch  Stake  to 
succeed  William  J.  Henderson. 

Horace  A.  Hess  appointed  President  of  the  Yellowstone  Stake  to 
succeed  John  M.  White. 

New  Wards  Organized: 

Ontario  Ward,  Boise  Stake,  formerly  an  independent  branch. 

Yalecrest  Ward,  Bonneville  Stake,  created  by  the  division  of  the 
Yale  Ward.. 

Edgehill  Ward,  Highland  Stake,  formerly  part  of  the  Wasatch 
Ward. 

Harvard  Ward,  Liberty  Stake,  formerly  a  part  of  the  Liberty 
Ward. 

Young  Ward,  Logan  Stake,  created  by  the  division  of  the  College 
Ward. 

Phoenix  Third  Ward,  Maricopa  Stake,  organized  from  Phoenix 
First  and  Second  Wards. 

Cokeville  Ward,  Montpelier  Stake,  was  an  independent  branch. 

Palisade  Ward,  Rigby  Stake,  formerly  an  independent  branch. 

Park  City  Ward,  South  Summit  Stake,  was  divided  into  the  First 
and  Second  Wards. 

Echo  Ward,  Summit  Stake,  formerly  an  independent  branch. 

Ogden  Twenty-second  Ward,  Weber  Stake,  created  by  the  division 
of  the  Ogden  First  Ward. 

The  Church  has  borrowed  no  money,  it  has  mortgaged  none  of  its 
property,  it  has  sold  none  of  its  property.  The  First  Presidency  has  no 
intention  of  doing  any  of  these  things,  for  there  is  no  call  or  necessity 
therefor.   All  rumors  and  reports  to  the  contrary  are  wholly  untrue. 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  certainly  a  very  inspiring  sight  to  look  at  this  immense  audience, 
with  so  many  standing.  I  am  grateful  for  the  wonderful  growth  of  the 
Church — 571,000  people  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  alone. 

I  recall  my  first,  trip  to  New  York,  after  having  been  made  an 
apostle,  and  the  ridicule  that  I  met  from  many  people  with  whom  I 
conversed.  Then  we  had  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  United  States 
fewer  than  200,000  Church  members.  There  were  60,000,000  people 
in  the  country  at  that  time,  now  there  are  120,000,000,  a  100  per  cent 
increase  in  this  great  country  of  ours,  and  the  Church  has  increased  in 
numbers  from  less  than  200,000  in  the  United  States  to  571,000  in  the 
various  stakes.  Zion  is  growing  and  prospering  at  home  and  abroad,  and 
I  am  grateful  for  it. 

ACCOMPLISHMENTS  UNDER  DIFFICULTIES 

As  I  remarked  at  the  Relief  Society  Conference  yesterday,  I  never 
think  of  the  life  and  labors  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  but  I  am  filled 
with  wonderment  at  the  remarkable  things  that  he  accomplished  during 
the  fourteen  years  from  the  time  of  the  organization  of  the  Church 
until  his  death.  Without  the  help  of  God  our  Heavenly  Father  and  the 
guidance  of  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  I  do  not  believe  that  any  mortal  man 
could  have  accomplished  anything  in  comparison  with  what  he  did;  in 
fact  I  know  it  could  not  have  been  done. 

It  is  marvelous  what  he  accomplished,  notwithstanding  the  mob- 
bings,  drivings,  the  tarrings  and  featherings,  the  lawsuits,  and  the 
arrests — he  was  arrested  more  than  forty  times  as  I  remember  it — the 
incarcerating  in  jail,  and  everything  with  which  he  had  to  contend. 

REVELATIONS  IN  LIBERTY  JAIL 

The  enemies  of  the  work  of  God,  as  you  all  know,  imprisoned  the 
Prophet  in  Liberty  jail,  where  he  received  two  very  remarkable  revela- 
tions. They  are  known  as  Sections  121  and  122  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  also  a  remarkable  document  which  was  published  regarding 
the  persecutions  of  the  Saints  (Section  123).  The  mob  could  not  pre- 
vent the  Prophet  from  receiving  communications  from  God.  To  my 
mind,  Section  121  is  one  of  the  greatest  revelations  that  God  has  given 
to  us  through  the  Prophet  Joseph.   In  Section  122  we  read: 

The  ends  of  the  earth  shall  inquire  after  thy  name,  and  fools  shall 
have  thee  in  derision,  and  hell  shall  rage  against  thee. 

While  the  pure  in  heart,  and  the  wise  and  the  noble,  and  the  virtuous, 
shall  seek  counsel,  and  authority,  and  blessings  constantly  from  under 
thy  hand. 

And  thy  people  shall  never  be  turned  against  thee  by  the  testimony 
of  traitors. 

And  the  people  of  God  have  never  been  turned  against  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  nor  have  they  been  turned  against  Brigham  Young,  nor 
John  Taylor,  nor  Wilford  Woodruff,  nor  Lorenzo  Snow,  nor  Joseph  F. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  7 

Smith,  nor  your  humble  servant.  I  think  I  am  absolutely  safe  in  saying 
that  99  and  a  fraction  per  cent  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  sustained 
the  men  who  in  the  providences  of  the  Lord  have  stood  at  the  head  of 
this  Church  from  the  days  of  the  Prophet  until  the  present  time. 

Section  122,  in  which  the  Lord  speaks  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  about 
his  trials  and  tribulations,  concludes  by  saying : 

If  thou  art  called  to  pass  through  tribulation;  if  thou _  art  in  perils 
among  false  brethren;  if  thou  art  in  perils  among  robbers;  if  thoU  art  in 
perils  by  land  or  by  sea : 

The  Son  of  Man  hath  descended  below  them  all.  Art  thou  greater 
than  he? 

Therefore,  hold  on  thy  way,  and  the  priesthood  shall  remain  with  thee ; 
for  their  bounds  are  set,  they  cannot  pass.  Thy  days  are  known,  and  thy 
years  shall  not  be  numbered  less ;  therefore,  fear  not  what  man  can  do, 
but  God  shall  be  with  you  forever  and  ever. 

GOD  WITH  THE  CHURCH 

God  has  been  with  the  Church  f  rom  the  day  of  its  organization, 
and  will  continue  to  be. 

I  read  from  Section  121 : 

How  long  can  rolling  waters  remain  impure?  What  power  shall  stay 
the  heavens?  As  well  might  man  stretch  forth  his  puny  arm  to  stop  the 
Missouri  river  in  its  decreed  course,  or  to  turn  it  upstream,  as  to  hinder  the 
Almighty  from  pouring  down  knowledge  upon  the  heads  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 

Behold,  there  are  many  called,  but  few  are  chosen.  And  why  are  they 
not  chosen? 

Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon  the  things  of  this  world, 
and  aspire  to  the  honors  of  men,  that  they  do  not  learn  this  one  lesson — 

That  the  rights  of  the  priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with  the 
powers  of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven  cannot  be  controlled  nor 
handled  only  upon  principles  of  righteousness. 

The  powers  of  heaven  have  been  handled  in  this  Church  from  the 
days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  until  today  upon  the  principles  of 
righteousness. 

FRIENDLY  COMPLIMENTS 

I  received  many  letters  when  I  was  called  to  be  an  apostle  of  the 
Church,  some  of  them  from  men  not  of  our  faith.  I  remember  distinctly 
one  that  I  received  from  a  man  who  had  known  me  from  my  young 
manhood.  He  was  the  general  manager  of  one  of  the  big  insurance 
companies  of  the  world.   He  said : 

Heber,  I  have  known  you  from  your  youth.  I  know  that  you  are 
fundamentally  honest  from  the  crown  of  your  head  to  the  soles  of  your 
feet.  I  have  never  had  a  very  good  opinion  of  the  leaders  of  the  "Mormon" 
people  because  I  believed  that  they  were  a  bright,  shrewd  lot,  taking  ad- 
vantage of  the  ignorance  and  religious  enthusiasm  of  the  people  to  become 
wealthy,  but  now  that  you  are  one  of  the  fifteen  men  to  stand  at  the  head 
of  the  "Mormon"  Church  I  apologize  to  the  other  fourteen.  I  know  if 
there  were  anything  crooked  or  anything  shady,  or  anything  wrong  in 
the  Church,  you  would  give  the  whole  thing  away. 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  think  it  was  Josh  Billings,  who  said : 

Never  judge  a  man  by  his  relatives,  he  cannot  help  them,  they  are 
crowded  on  to  him,  but  judge  him  by  the  company  he  keeps,  because  he 
chooses  his  own. 

I  rejoice  in  the  statement  made  to  me  by  David  Wood  the  day  after 
Anthony  W.  Ivins  was  made  an  apostle.   He  said : 

I  am  glad  you  are  running  your  Church  to  suit  me.  If  you  had 
come  into  my  offce  yesterday  and  said,  "Dave  Wood,  you  have  lived 
among  us  for  twenty-five  years,  and  you  have  been  a  friend  to  the  Mormon 
people  at  home  and  abroad,  in  the  United  States  and  in  foreign  countries, 
and  I  have  been  sent  down  to  your  office  to  say  to  you,  as  you  know  the 
leading  people  of  the  Church  from  Canada  on  the  north  to  Mexico  on 
the  south,  that  we  are  ready  and  willing  to  show  our  appreciation  of  your 
friendship  by  letting  you  name  the  best  man  in  the  Mormon  Church  to  be 
an  apostle,"  I  would  have  hollered  "Ivins"  without  batting  an  eye  or 
taking  a  breath. 

Compliments  of  this  kind  are  paid  by  honest,  faithful  men  regarding 
the  choice  of  individuals  for  positions  of  leadership  in  the  Church. 

RESPONSIBILITY  OF  THOSE  CALLED  TO  OFFICE 

I  wish  to  bear  witness  here  today  that  every  man  who  is  chosen 
to  be  one  of  the  General  Authorities,  or  to  preside  over  a  stake  or  a 
ward,  or  in  the  Improvement  Associations,  and  every  woman  who  is 
chosen  to  preside  in  the  Primary  Association,  or  in  the  Relief  Society, 
and  those  chosen  for  the  Sunday  School  work,  we  aim  to  get  the 
very  best  that  there  is,  and  the  offscourings  of  the  earth  can  go  on  howling 
as  long  as  they  like  and  as  loud  as  they  will,  it  will  not  make  any  dif- 
ference. 

I  again  quote  from  Section  121 : 

Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon  the  things  of  this  world, 
and  aspire  to  the  honors  of  men,  that  they  do  not  learn  this  one  lesson — 

That  the  rights  of  the  priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with  the 
powers  of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven  cannot  be  controlled  nor 
handled  only  upon  the  principles  of  righteousness. 

That  they  may  be  conferred  upon  us,  it  is  true ;  but  when  we  undertake 
to  cover  our  sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride,  our  vain  ambition,  or  to  exercise 
control  or  dominion  or  compulsion  upon  the  souls  of  the  children  of  men, 
in  any  degree  of  unrighteousness,  behold  the  heavens  withdraw  themselves ; 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved ;  and  when  it  is  withdrawn,  Amen  to  the 
priesthood  or  the  authority  of  that  man. 

I  bear  witness  to  you  here  today,  and  to  all  the  world,  that  there 
has  never  been  any  exercise  of  authority  in  this  Church  except  by  per- 
suasion and  by  long-suffering. 

Behold,  ere  he  is  aware,  he  is  left  to  kick  against  the  pricks,  to  per- 
secute the  Saints,  and  to  fight  against  God. 

I  shall  not  read  the  balance  of  this  wonderful  revelation  for  the 
reason  that  I  shall  have  the  privilege  of  broadcasting  to  the  world  on 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


Sunday  for  the  enormous  (?)  length  of  seven  minutes,  and  it  will  take 
me  just  about  that  long  to  read  the  balance  of  this  section  and  some 
others  of  truths  that  are  contained  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 

BLESSINGS  THROUGH  OBEDIENCE 

I  am  very  thankful  indeed  for  the  revelation  which  says : 

There  is  a  law  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foundations 
of  this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated — 

And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to 
that  law  upon  which  it  is  predicated. 

I  can  say  that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  have  been  poured  out  in 
rich  abundance  upon  every  man  who  has  stood  at  the  head  of  this 
Church,  because  they  have  all  sought  righteously  for  the  inspiration  of 
the  Spirit  of  God  to  guide  them  in  all  they  have  undertaken  to  do. 

CHANGE  IN  SENTIMENT 

I  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  change  that  has  taken  place  since  my 
first  trip  to  New  York.  There  was  a  feeling  of  animosity  in  the  hearts 
of  many  people.  Men  would  double  up  their  fists  and  shake  them  at 
me  saying  if  they  had  their  way  they  would  put  the  Mormons  in  this 
tabernacle  and  turn  the  guns  of  Fort  Douglas  upon  them. 

I  remember  the  spirit  of  animosity  that  existed  in  Phoenix,  Arizona, 
the  first  time  I  was  there,  and  I  contrast  it  with  my  visit  there  just  a 
few  weeks  ago,  when  I  had  the  pleasure  of  being  present  at  the  or- 
ganization of  the  Phoenix  Third  Ward.  There  was  not  a  member  of 
the  Church  living  in  Phoenix,  so  far  as  I  am  aware,  at  the  time  of  my 
first  visit.  At  the  time  of  my  recent  visit  to  that  city  we  had  two  wards 
in  Phoenix,  and  another  was  organized  while  I  was  there.  I  also  had 
the  pleasure  of  dedicating  two  meeting  houses  in  the  Maricopa  Stake, 
and  calling  at  the  Temple  and  preaching  for  a  few  moments  in  that 
wonderful  building,  which  cost  us  three-quarters  of  a  million  dollars. 
I  also  had  the  privilege  of  ordaining  a  couple  of  bishoprics  while  there. 

While  in  New  York  recently  I  had  the  privilege  of  inspecting  a 
building  that  we  have  now  leased  for  some  years,  a  large  twenty-story 
building  with  a  chapel  in  it.  It  is  a  splendid  place.  As  I  contrast  the 
miserable  little  building  in  which  we  rented  some  rooms,  about  twenty- 
foot  frontage,  the  first  time  I  was  in  New  York,  with  the  chapel  in 
which  we  are  now  located  in  a  magnificent  building  in  that  city,  it  makes 
my  heart  rejoice. 

I  rejoice  in  the  change  that  has  come  about  in  Washington — the 
beautiful  structure  that  we  have  in  that  city  now,  in  comparison  with 
what  we  had  the  first  time  I  was  there.  When  Brother  Reed  Smoot 
first  went  to  Washington  I  think  he  said  that  at  the  first  meeting  they 
held  there,  which  was  in  his  home,  only  five  people  were  at  the  services. 
We  now  have  in  the  capital  of  the  nation  one  of  the  most  flourishing 
branches  in  all  the  Church,  and  about  1,000  members. 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  call  to  mind  that  when  I  went  to  California  for  the  first  time  I 
was  assured  by  the  few  Latter-day  Saints  who  were  in  Oakland  and 
San  Francisco  that  they  believed  the  total  membership  of  the  Church  in 
California  would  not  quite  reach  a  hundred.  Today  we  have  two  stakes 
in  Los  Angeles,  and  we  have  decided  to  divide  them,  as  there  are  too 
many  members  in  each  stake  for  one  stake  president  to  be  able  to  take 
care  of  them.  We  have  another  stake  of  Zion  in  San  Bernardino,  one 
in  San  Francisco,  one  in  Oakland,  one  in  Sacramento,  and  another  in 
Gridley,  and,  with  the  members  of  the  California  mission,  I  am  con- 
vinced beyond  a  doubt  that  we  have  between  forty  and  fifty  thousand 
people  in  California  belonging  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

The  first  time  I  was  in  Rexburg,  the  total  Church  population  north 
of  the  Oneida  Stake,  was  only  1,300  people.  Today,  going  north  and 
west  and  up  into  Canada,  I  am  sure  we  have  a  hundred  thousand  people 
in  that  territory  who  belong  to  the  Church. 

RECORD  IN  SCOUTING 

I  am  very  grateful  indeed  for  the  remarkable  record  that  our  young 
men  have  made  in  Boy  Scouting.  It  fell  to  my  lot  to  attend  an  annual 
gathering  of  the  Boy  Scouts  in  New  York  some  time  ago.  In  one  of 
the  meetings  the  president  said:  "We  would  like  to  hear  from  Mr. 
Grant,  although  it  is  time  for  lunch,  for  the  reason  that  the  Church 
over  which  he  presides  has  made  the  most  remarkable  and  splendid 
record  in  Scouting  of  any  church  or  community,  in  proportion  to  its 
numbers,  and  I  hope  the  people  here  will  be  willing  to  wait  and  listen 
to  Mr.  Grant  for  a  half  hour." 

I  got  up  and  said :  "There  is  no  need  for  me  to  say  anything.  Chart 
after  chart  has  been  exhibited  here,  showing  our  accomplishments.  I 
would  be  almost  ashamed  to  praise  our  boys  as  much  as  the  speakers 
have  done  who  have  preceded  me,  and  I  therefore  suggest  that  we  go  to 
lunch." 

I  rejoiced  in  being  present  at  the  recent  meeting  of  the  executives  of 
the  Boy  Scouts,  and  it  was  marvelous  the  fine  compliments  that  were 
paid  to  our  people  and  to  the  executives  who  are  members  of  the  Church 
who  are  being  employed  in  the  different  sections,  working  for  the  Boy 
Scout  movement,  from  New  York  to  California.  Our  young  men  are 
making  a  splendid  record ;  we  are  becoming  known,  the  young  and  old 
of  this  Church,  as  God-fearing  men  and  women. 

When  I  was  only  a  young  man  I  rejoiced  in  the  splendid  tributes 
that  were  paid  to  us  by  the  late  Bishop  Daniel  Turtle.  He  went  east 
and  told  the  truth  about  us,  that  we  were  "a  God-fearing,  upright,  con- 
scientious people,  serving  God."  While  he  did  not  agree  with  us;  he 
admired  our  integrity,  and  said  that  truth  and  righteousness  always 
prevailed  amongst  us. 

I  am  very  thankful  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  has  been  printed  in 
Braille,  and  that  the  blind  will  have  the  privilege  of  reading  it.    I  am 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


convinced  that  that  wonderful  book,  full  of  inspiration  from  Almighty 
God  to  the  men  who  wrote  it,  will  cause  many  a  person  to  rejoice  who 
has  never  been  able  to  read  the  Book  of  Mormon  heretofore. 

GENEALOGICAL  AND  TEMPLE  WORK 

I  thoroughly  enjoyed  meeting  with  the  Genealogical  Society  last 
night.  I  had  understood  that  there  was  going  to  be  a  long  KSL  broad- 
cast connected  with  it,  talking  about  dramatizing  the  110th  Section 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  but  that  part  of  it  lasted  only  a  few 
minutes.  The  meeting  was  practically  a  short  one,  but  I  was  very 
pleased  with  what  I  heard.  I  am  delighted  with  the  wonderful  work 
that  is  being  done  in  our  temples  in  the  accomplishments  of  our  people 
in  hunting  up  the  records  of  their  forefathers  and  performing  the 
saving  ordinances  for  them  in  the  temples  of  God. 

I  have  never  attended  a  temple  dedication  in  my  life  but  what 
there  was  a  marvelous  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  of  God  upon  those  who 
spoke  there,  and  it  has  fallen  to  my  lot  to  be  at  the  dedication  of  the 
Logan  temple,  the  Manti  temple,  the  Canadian  temple,  the  Hawaiian 
temple,  and  the  Arizona  temple,  and  the  Lord  was  good  to  us  on  those 
occasions.  They  were  the  most  outstanding  and  inspirational  meetings 
that  it  has  ever  been  my  privilege  to  attend. 

.:•  A  SEMINARY  IN  WYOMING 

It  fell  to  my  lot  only  last  Sunday  to  visit  Wyoming.  We  have 
erected  at  Laramie,  a  very  beautiful  and  fine  structure  as  an  institute, 
adjoining  the  University  of  Wyoming.  Never  before  in  my  life  have  I 
been  treated  more  kindly,  and  with  more  respect  than  upon  that  occasion. 
I  rejoice  in  the  compliment  paid  to  us  by  the  governor  of  the  state, 
in  that  he  traveled  from  Cheyenne,  his  headquarters,  to  Laramie,  to  be 
present,  and  he  made  a  most  complimentary  speech  with  regard  to  our 
people.  I  never  have  heard  any  finer  things  said  regarding  professors 
in  a  school  than  the  tributes  paid  by  the  president  of  the  University 
of  Wyoming  to  our  young  men  who  are  teaching  in  the  Wyoming 
University.  He  praised  very  highly  the  president  of  our  branch  at 
Laramie,  Brother  Albert  G.  Bowman.  Brother  Bowman  has  been  there 
now,  if  I  remember  correctly,  for  twenty  years,  if  not  longer,  and  he 
and  the  other  young  men  who  are  employed  in  that  school  have  made 
a  record  for  themselves  and  they  are  appreciated,  and  it  was  so  declared. 
The  president  of  the  University  said  that  not  only  were  the  young  men, 
the  professors  who  are  teaching  in  the  school,  of  the  highest  grade,  but 
he  paid  compliments  to  all  of  our  people  who  are  attending  the  school. 

In  the  evening  there  was  a  reception  in  our  institute  building. 
It  is  very  well  adapted  for  the  work  that  we  expect  to  do  there.  Not- 
withstanding the  inclemency  of  weather,  the  governor  of  the  state  and 
the  president  of  the  university,  and  other  prominent  people  were  present, 
and  there  was  a  spirit  of  fellowship  and  good-will  existing  there  the 
equal  of  anything  I  have  experienced  in  my  life. 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THE  WORTH  OF  SOULS 

I  pray  God  to  help  me  and  you  and  every  soul  to  live  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  to  labor  with  all  the  zeal  that  we  have.  I  am  grateful, 
indeed,  for  this  remarkable  statement  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
in  a  revelation  contained  therein,  in  which  Oliver  Cowdery  and  David 
Whitmer  were  appointed  to  name  the  men  who  were  to  be  members 
of  the  first  quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles : 

And  now  Oliver  Cowdery,  I  speak  unto  you,  and  also  unto  David 
Whitmer,  by  way  of  commandment ;  for,  behold,  I  command  all  men  every- 
where to  repent,  and  I  speak  unto  you  even  as  unto  Paul,  mine  apostle,  for 
you  are  called  even  with  that  same  calling  with  which  he  was  called. 

Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of  God; 

For,  behold,  the  Lord,  your  Redeemer,  suffered  death  in  the  flesh ; 
wherefore  he  suffered  the  pain  of  all  men,  that  all  men  might  repent  and 
come  unto  him. 

And  he  hath  risen  again  from  the  dead,  that  he  might  bring  all  men 
unto  him,  on  conditions  of  repentance. 

And  how  great  is  his  joy  in  the  soul  that  repenteth ! 

Wherefore,  you  are  called  to  cry  repentance  unto  this  people. 

And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your  days  in  crying  repentance 
unto  this  people,  and  bring  save  it  be  one  soul  unto  me,  how  great  shall 
be  your  joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father ! 

And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great  with  one  soul  that  you  have 
brought  unto  me  into  the  kingdom  of  my  Father,  how  great  will  be  your 
joy  if  you  should  bring  many  souls  unto  me! 

Behold,  you  have  my  gospel  before  you,  and  my  rock,  and  my  salvation. 

A  GOSPEL  OF  FORGIVENESS 

May  God  help  each  and  every  one  of  us  to  remember  that  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  is  not  only  a  gospel  of  conversion,  but  it  is  a  gospel  of 
forgiveness.  We  have  it  recorded  that  though  a  man's  sins  be  as 
scarlet,  if  he  will  repent,  they  shall  all  be  as  white  as  snow.  I  rejoice 
in  that  remarkable  revelation  which  says: 

I,  the  Lord,  will  forgive  whom  I  will  forgive,  but  of  you  it  is 
required  to  forgive  all  men. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  one  and  all  to  grow  in  the  light,  and  knowledge, 
and  testimony,  and  love  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  our  light 
may  so  shine  that  others  seeing  our  good  works  may  join  the  Church. 

TESTIMONY 

I  desire  upon  this  occasion,  and  upon  all  occasions,  to  bear  witness 
in  all  solemnity  and  in  all  humility  to  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  and  to  the  divine  mission  of  each  and  every  one  of 
the  men  who  have  been  chosen  to  succeed  him,  and  above  all  I  desire 
to  say  that  I  know  that  God  lives,  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the. 
Son  of  the  living  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  God  help  you 
and  me  and  all  to  live  the  gospel  is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in 
the  name  of  our  Redeemer.   Amen.  ,.m 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


13 


The  Choir  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of 
Israel,"  after  which  the  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Grant  us  Peace" 
(Stephens). 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  owe  a  wonderful  debt  of  gratitude  to  Brother  Evan  Stephens 
and  we  thank  this  choir — the  Hyrum  Stake  Choir — for  their  beautiful 
rendition  of  some  of  his  compositions. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  was  born  of  goodly  parents,  across  the  street  west  from  here, 
sixty-six  years  ago  today,  and  am  informed  that  there  were  two  feet  of 
snow  on  the  level  and  drifted  to  the  tops  of  the  fences.  Happy  am  I 
to  be  with  you  and  to  have  you  celebrate  my  birthday  in  General 
Conference.  It  affords  me  the  opportunity  to  meet  many  dear  friends 
and  greet  you  under  most  favorable  circumstances. 

MEMBERSHIP  IN  CHRIST'S  CHURCH  A  PRIVILEGE 

During  a  very  busy  life  it  has  been  my  joy  to  witness  the  constant 
development  of  the  work  of  the  Lord  in  this  and  in  other  lands.  I 
am  sure  that  the  splendid  report  of  the  condition  of  the  Church  that 
we  have  listened  to  this  morning  and  the  address  of  our  beloved  President 
cause  us  to  be  grateful  to  the  Lord  that  we  have  membership  in  the 
organization  that  He  named  for  his  beloved  Son.  To  have  fellowship 
in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  that  was  organized  under  his  direction 
for  our  earthly  happiness  and  to  prepare  us  for  eternal  life  in  the 
Celestial  kingdom  is  indeed  a  glorious  privilege 

THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON  IN  BRAILLE 

Reference  has  been  made  this  morning  to  the  Book  of  Mormon 
that  has  been  printed  in  Braille  for  the  use  of  the  blind.  I  regret  that 
I  did  not  bring  a  set  here  for  you  to  see.  It  consists  of  seven  volumes, 
each  12  inches  long,  12  inches  wide  and  2-3  inches  thick,  nicely  bound 
in  green  cloth  and  embossed  in  gold.  A  set  will  be  presented  to  the 
larger  libraries  of  the  country  making  it  available  to  most  of  the  blind 
just  as  is  the  Holy  Bible.  It  was  printed  by  the  American  Printing 
House  for  the  Blind,  at  Louisville,  Kentucky,  the  same  concern  that 
prints  Bibles  for  the  American  Bible  Society.  It  was  proof-read  by  a 
scholarly  blind  man,  one  of  the  two  best  Braille  proof-readers  in  the 
United  States,  who  was  also  employed  to  proof-read  the  Bible. 

ITS  DISTRIBUTION  AN  IMPORTANT  DUTY 

The  Book  of  Mormon  is  a  sacred  record  containing  information 
that  is  found  in  no  other  book.   The  Lord  has  commanded  us  to  divide 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


with  all  his  children  the  truths  of  the  everlasting  Gospel  that  have  been 
revealed  to  prepare  them  for  a  place  in  the  Celestial  kingdom.  Distrib- 
uting the  Book  of  Mormon  is  a  most  important  missionary  duty.  In  the 
year  1827  Joseph  Smith  was  living  at  Palmyra  in  New  York  and  it  was 
at  the  Hill  Cumorah,  not  far  from  his  home  that  an  angel  delivered 
into  his  custody  a  volume  of  plates  having  the  appearance  of  gold.  He 
was  directed  to  translate  their  contents  into  English,  which  he  did  by 
the  gift  and  power  of  God.  It  caused  quite  a  commotion  in  the  com- 
munity when  it  was  reported  that  Joseph  had  received  some  golden 
records  and  had  them  in  his  possession.  Attempts  were  made  to  take 
them  from  him.  He  and  his  father's  family  were  harassed  because 
of  the  report  that  they  had  something  valuable  in  their  possession.  The 
Lord  had  informed  Joseph  before  he  was  fifteen  years  of  age  that  a 
great  mission  was  to  be  given  to  him  if  he  would  live  a  righteous  life. 
Later  it  became  part  of  his  duty  to  translate  and  publish  to  the  world 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  When  the  people  in  the  neighborhood  learned 
that  he  was  contracting  with  a  local  printer  to  publish  the  book  they 
did  everything  possible  to  discourage  it.  They  declared  that  the  work 
was  a  fraud  and  determined  to  prevent  its  publication,  and  in  order 
that  the  venture  might  be  a  financial  failure  they  tried  to  make  the  distri- 
bution impossible  by  agreeing  that  they  would  not  read  the  book 

A  REMARKABLE  PROPHECY 

Notwithstanding  the  threats  that  were  made  Joseph  placed  the 
manuscript  containing  this  prophecy  in  the  hands  of  the  printer  for 
publication  (II  Nephi,  30th  chapter  and  3rd  verse)  : 

And  now,  I  would  prophesy  somewhat  more  concerning  the  Jews 
and  the  Gentiles.  For  after  the  book  of  which  I  have  spoken  shall  come 
forth,  and  be  written  unto  the  Gentiles,  and  sealed  up  again  unto  the 
Lord,  there  shall  be  many  which  shall  believe  the  words  which  are  written; 
and  they  shall  carry  them  forth  unto  the  remnant  of  our  seed. 

And  then  shall  the  remnant  .of  our  seed  know  concerning  us,  how  that 
we  came  out  from  Jerusalem,  and  that  they  are  descendants  of  the  Jews. 

And  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  shall  be  declared  among  them ;  where- 
fore, they  shall  be  restored  unto  the  knowledge  of  their  fathers,  and  also 
to  the  knowledge  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  was  had  among  their  fathers. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  notwithstanding  the  animosity  of  the 
people  and  the  threat  not  to  purchase  the  book  it  did  not  deter  the  youthful 
prophet  from  publishing  the  prediction  that  had  been  made  by  Nephi, 
"There  shall  be  many  which  shall  believe  the  words  which  are  written." 
Let  us  see  if  that  promise  of  the  Lord  has  been  fulfilled. 

IN  FULFILMENT  OF  THE  LORD'S  PROMISE 

The  Book  of  Mormon  was  first  published  in  English  in  1830;  in 
Danish  in  1851;  in  Welsh  in  1852;  in  German  in  1852;  in  French  in 
1852 ;  in  Italian  in  1852 ;  in  Hawaiian  in  1855 ;  in  the  Deseret  alphabet 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


15 


in  1869;  in  Swedish  in  1878;  in  Spanish  in  1886;  in  Maori  in  1889;  in 
Dutch  in  1890;  in  Samoan  in  1903;  in  Tahitian  in  1904;  in  Turkish 
in  1906;  in  Japanese  in  1909;  Czecho-Slovakian  in  1933  and  in  Braille 
in  1936. 

Now  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  has  been  published  in  Braille  it  is 
interesting  to  note  that  in  2nd  Nephi,  27th  Chapter  and  29th  verse  the 
following  occurs :  "And  in  that  day  shall  the  deaf  hear  the  words  of 
the  book,  and  the  eyes  of  the  blind  shall  see  out  of  obscurity  and  out 
of  darkness." 

While  there  are  not  many  blind  people  in  our  own  communities  it 
is  estimated  that  there  are  more  than  125,000  in  America. 

We  were  very  grateful  when  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  author- 
ized the  Society  for  the  Aid  of  the  Sightless  that  has  been  operating  a 
small  Braille  plant  for  many  years,  to  arrange  for  the  publication  of  an 
edition  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  Braille.  We  knew  that  such  action 
would  enable  those  people  who  have  been  denied  the  sense  of  eyesight 
to  exercise  another  sense  that  the  Lord  has  magnified  in  them,  "the 
power  to  read  by  touch,"  and  they  could  read  the  important  information 
recorded  in  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

In  addition  to  the  18  languages  in  which  the  Book  of  Mormon  has 
already  been  printed  it  has  also  been  translated  and  prepared  for  publi- 
cation in  Hindustanee,  in  Greek,  Hebrew,  Bulgarian,  Russian  and 
Armenian. 

About  eighty  years  after  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  published  I 
went  to  Palmyra  to  purchase  the  old  home  of  Joseph  Smith  where  a 
part  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  translated.  I  made  an  investigation 
and  found  that  the  people  of  that  section  had  fulfilled  their  promise.  I 
did  not  find  one  soul  who  had  ever  read  the  Book  of  Mormon.  The  only 
copy  that  I  found  among  them  was  the  printer's  copy  that  had  never 
been  cut,  and  it  was  held  as  a  curiosity  by  the  banker  there,  Honorable 
Pliney  T.  Sexton,  who  was  a  very  good  friend  of  ours. 

AS  A  RESULT  OF  FAITH 

Think  of  the  problem  that  presented  itself  to  Joseph  Smith.  Money 
was  being  expended,  borrowed  money,  in  order  that  the  book  might  be 
published.  Martin  Harris  had  mortgaged  his  farm  to  secure  the  neces- 
sary funds.  It  required  faith  of  a  high  order  to  continue  under  such 
circumstances.  The  edition  of  five  thousand  was  eventually  delivered 
and  paid  for  and  the  estimate  now  is  that  considerably  more  than  a 
million  copies  have  since  been  distributed  among  the  nations  of  the 
earth.  The  demand  for  it  increases  as  the  days  go  by,  and  it  fills  my 
heart  with  joy  to  know  that  every  man  who  will  read  it  prayerfully, 
every  man  who  will  desire  to  know  whether  it  be  of  God  or  not  has  the 
promise,  not  of  Joseph  Smith  or  any  living  human  being,  but  the  promise 
of  our  Heavenly  Father  that  they  shall  know  of  a  surety  that  it  is  of 
God.  (Moroni  10:3-4-5)  : 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Behold,  I  would  exhort  you  that  when  ye  shall  read  these  things, 
if  it  be  wisdom  in  God  that  ye  should  read  them,  that  ye  would  remember 
how  merciful  the  Lord  hath  been  unto  the  children  of  men,  from  the 
creation  of  Adam  even  down  until  the  time  that  ye  shall  receive  these 
things,  and  ponder  it  in  your  hearts. 

And  when  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye 
would  ask  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things 
are  not  true;  and  if  ye  shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent, 
having  faith  in  Christ,  he  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ye  may  know  the  truth  of  all 
things. 

A  COMPANION  VOLUME  TO  THE  BIBLE 

It  is  surely  pleasing  to  have  this  other  volume  of  scripture 
prepared  for  the  use  of  the  blind  to  read  as  a  companion  to  the  Bible 
that  for  many  years  has  been  printed  for  them  in  Braille.  These  two 
books  hand  in  hand  teach  us  all  where  we  came  from,  why  we  are  here, 
where  we  may  go,  and  they  both  contain  the  advice,  the  loving  advice  of 
our  Heavenly  Father  intended  to  inspire  us  to  do  that  which  will  enrich 
our  lives  here  and  prepare  us  for  eternal  happiness. 

OFFERING  THE  GOSPEL  TO  OTHERS 

It  is  a  privilege  to  live  in  this  day  and  age  of  the  world.  It  is 
marvelous  to  be  associated  with  the  people  who  have,  as  you  learned 
this  morning,  more  than  seventeen  hundred  missionaries  in  the  world 
today,  offering  without  money  and  without  price  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  to  those  who  need  it  but  do  not  understand  it.  Our  missionary 
effort  at  home  is  assuming  large  proportions,  for  many  in  the  stakes 
of  Zion  are  proclaiming  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  No  other  people 
in  this  world  are  making  such  an  effort  to  share  with  the  children  of 
men  the  glorious  truths  of  our  Heavenly  Father  for  the  uplift  of  man- 
kind and  for  the  preparation  of  those  who  desire  to  dwell  upon  this 
earth  when  it  shall  be  the  Celestial  kingdom  of  our  Lord.  Grateful  am 
I  that  after  sixty-six  years  of  experience  in  this  world,  after  associating 
with  men  and  women  and  teaching  them  the  Gospel  in  this  and  many 
other  lands,  that  my  assurance  of  the  divinity  of  this  work  is  stronger 
today  than  ever  before. 

BEARS  TESTIMONY 

I  know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  Lord.  And  I  know,  as  I  know  that  I  live, 
that  the  Church  that  bears  the  name  of  the  Redeemer  by  his  direction, 
is  of  divine  origin,  and  that  the  authority  to  speak  and  act  in  the  name 
of  the  Savior  has  been  placed  upon  his  children  here  and  that  we  are 
made  partakers  of  those  blessings  that  are  to  prepare  us  for  eternal 
life  in  the  Celestial  kingdom.  Knowing  that,  and  realizing  the  serious- 
ness of  such  a  statement  on  this  my  birthday,  I  gratefully  bear  to  you 
my  testimony  that  I  know  that  these  things  are  true,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


17 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a  wonderful  sight  to  see  so  many 
Latter-day  Saints  assembled  in  one  body.  It  is  impressive.  I  have 
rejoiced  in  the  spirit  of  this  meeting  thus  far.  I  think  we  have  made 
an  excellent  start  for  a  splendid  conference. 

THE  SAVIOR'S  BIRTH  AND  MISSION  FORETOLD 

The  Savior  has  been  referred  to  this  morning.  He  was  the  great 
central  figure  in  all  the  world  of  mankind,  and  prophets  of  ancient 
Israel  predicted  his  birth  in  no  unmistakable  language.  They  looked 
forward  to  his  day  with  keenest  interest,  knowing  that  he  would  be 
entrusted  with  the  greatest  mission  that  ever  had  been  or  ever  would 
be  given  to  mortal  man.  By  the  eye  of  faith,  under  the  inspiration  of 
the  Almighty  Father,  they  saw  that  he  was  destined  to  become  the 
Savior  of  the  world  through  the  shedding  of  his  precious  blood. 

As  ancient  prophets  anxiously  looked  forward  to  his  day,  so  modern 
prophets  look  backward  with  equal  interest  to  his  day,  and  all,  both 
prophets  and  saints,  rejoice  in  contemplation  of  it. 

Some  people  in  Christian  communities,  even  ministers  of  the  gospel, 
have  denied  the  divinity  of  his  birth,  while  on  the  other  hand  in  several 
instances,  writers  have  asserted  that  no  such  character  as  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Lord  of  the  Holy  Bible,  ever  existed.  They  could  just  as  well  have 
repudiated  the  entire  Bible  itself  as  to  make  such  a  ridiculous  claim. 

WORDS  OF  SCRIPTURE  SET  TO  MUSIC 

Brethren  and  sisters,  permit  me  to  read,  by  way  of  reminder,  some 
of  the  scriptural  passages  mostly  found  in  the  book  of  Isaiah  the  prophet, 
relating  to  the  Christ,  which  were  set  to  music  by  George  Frederick 
Handel  and  designated  The  Messiah,  an  oratorio.  The  words  were 
undoubtedly  inspired  of  the  Lord,  and  we  may  well  believe  that  the 
music  was  also  given  by  inspiration. 

The  oratorio  is  divided  into  five  parts  as  follows:  The  Prophecy, 
the  Fulfilment,  the  Passion,  the  Glorification,  and  the  Resurrection. 

WORDS  OF  PROPHECY 

I  will  first  read  the  words  of  prophecy  concerning  the  Christ : 

Comfort  ye,  comfort  ye  my  people,  saith  your  God;  speak  ye  com- 
fortably to  Jerusalem ;  and  cry  unto  her  that  her  warfare  is  accomplished, 
that  her  iniquity  is  pardoned. 

The  voice  of  him  that  crieth  in  the  wilderness,  Prepare  ye  the  way 
of  the  Lord,  make  straight  in  the  desert  a  highway  for  our  God. 

Every  valley  shall  be  exalted,  and  every  mountain  and  hill  made 
low,  the  crooked  straight,  and  the  rough  places  plain. 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


And  the  glory  of  the  Lord  shall  be  revealed,  and  all  flesh  shall  see  it 
together:  for  the  mouth  of  the  Lord  hath  spoken  it. 

Thus  saith  the  Lord  of  Hosts :  Yet  once  a  little  while  and  I  will 
shake  the  heavens,  and  the  earth,  the  sea,  and  the  dry  land;  and  I  will 
shake  all  nations,  and  the  desire  of  all  nations  shall  come. 

The  Lord,  whom  ye  seek,  shall  suddenly  come  to  his  temple,  even 
the  messenger  of  the  covenant,  whom  ye  delight  in;  Behold,  he  shall 
come,  saith  the  Lord  of  Hosts. 

But  who  may  abide  the  day  of  his  coming,  and  who  shall  stand  when 
he  appeareth? 

For  he  is  like  a  refiner's  fire. 

And  he  shall  purify  the  sons  of  Levi,  that  they  may  offer  unto  the 
Lord  an  offering  in  righteousness. 

Behold  a  virgin  shall  conceive,  and  bear  a  Son,  and  shall  call  his 
name  Emmanuel,  God  with  us. 

For,  behold,  darkness  shall  cover  the  earth,  and  gross  darkness  the 
people;  but  the  Lord  shall  arise  upon  thee,  and  his  glory  shall  be  seen 
upon  thee,  and  the  Gentiles  shall  come  to  thy  light,  and  kings  to  the 
brightness  of  thy  rising. 

The  people  that  walked  in  darkness  have  seen  a  great  light :  and  they 
that  dwell  in  the  land  of  the  shadow  of  death,  upon  them  hath  the  light 
shined. 

For  unto  us  a  Child  is  born,  unto  us  a  Son  is  given,  and  the  government 
shall  be  upon  his  shoulder :  and  his  name  shall  be  called  Wonderful, 
Counselor,  the  Mighty  God,  the  Everlasting  Father,  the  Prince  of  Peace. 

THE  FULFILMENT 

These  were  prophecies  made  in  ancient  times  concerning  the  Savior, 
and  now  follows  the  fulfilment  of  these  prophecies  in  brief  : 

There  were  shepherds  abiding  in  the  field,  keeping  watch  over  their 
flocks  by  night 

And  lo !  the  angel  of  the  Lord  came  upon  them,  and  the  glory  of 
the  Lord  shone  round  about  them,  and  they  were  sore  afraid. 

And  the  angel  said  unto  them,  Fear  not ;  for,  behold,  I  bring  you  good 
tidings  of  great  joy,  which  shall  be  to  all  people. 

For  unto  you  is  born  this  day  in  the  city  of  David  a  Savior,  which 
is  Christ  the  Lord, 

And  suddenly  there  was  with  the  angel  a  multitude  of  the  heavenly 
host  praising  God,  and  saying: 

Glory  to  God  in  the  highest,  and  peace  on  earth,  good  will  towards  men. 

Rejoice  greatly,  O  daughter  of  Zion;  Shout,  O  daughter  of  Jerusalem: 
behold,  thy  king  cometh  unto  thee. 

He  is  the  righteous  Savior,  and  he  shall  speak  peace  unto  the  heathen. 

Then  shall  the  eyes  of  the  blind  be  opened,  and  the  ears  of  the  deaf 
unstopped ;  then  shall  the  lame  man  leap  as  an  hart,  and  the  tongue  of  the 
dumb  shall  sing. 

He  shall  feed  his  flock  like  a  shepherd ;  and  he  shall  gather  the  lambs 
with  his  arm,  and  carry  them  in  his  bosom,  and  gently  lead  those  that 
are  with  young. 

Come  unto  him,  all  ye  that  labor  and  are  heavy  laden,  and  he  shall 
give  you  rest. 

Take  his  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn  of  him;  for  he  is  meek  and  lowly 
of  heart :  and  ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your  souls. 

THE  PASSION 

And  now  comes  the  Passion.    Think  of  the  solemnity  of  it. 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON  19 

He  was  despised  and  rejected  of  men ;  a  man  of  sorrows,  and 
acquainted  with  grief. 

Surely  he  hath  borne  our  griefs,  and  carried  our  sorrows ;  he  was 
wounded  for  our  transgressions ;  he  was  bruised  for  our  iniquities ;  the 
chastisement  of  our  peace  was  upon  him. 

****** 

Thy  rebuke  hath  broken  his  heart ;  he  is  full  of  heaviness.  He  looked 
for  some  to  have  pity  on  him,  but  there  was  no  man;  neither  found  he 
any  to  comfort  him. 

Behold,  and  see  if  there  be  any  sorrow  like  unto  his  sorrow. 

THE  GLORIFICATION 

And  now  the  Glorification : 

Lift  up  your  heads,  O  ye  gates;  and  be  ye  lift  up  ye  everlasting 

doors ;  and  the  King  of  glory  shall  come  in. 

****** 

Why  do  the  nations  so  furiously  rage  together?  and  why  do  the 
people  imagine  a  vain  thing? 

The  kings  of  the  earth  rise  up,  and  the  rulers  take  counsel  together 

against  the  Lord,  and  against  his  anointed. 

****** 

Hallelujah!  for  the  Lord  God  omnipotent  reigneth. 
The  kingdom  of  this  world  is  become  the  kingdom  of  our  Lord, 
and  of  his  Christ;  and  he  shall  reign  forever  and  ever. 

KING  OP  KINGS,  AND  LORD  OF  LORDS,  HALLELUJAH ! 

THE  RESURRECTION 

And  now  finally  the  Resurrection: 

I  know  that  my  Redeemer  liveth,  and  that  he  shall  stand  at  the 
latter  day  upon  the  earth : 

And  though  worms  destroy  this  body,  yet  in  my  flesh  shall  I  see  God. 

For  now  is  Christ  risen  from  the  dead,  the  first-fruits  of  them 
that  sleep. 

Worthy  is  the  Lamb  that  was  slain,  and  hath  redeemed  us  to  God  by 
his  blood,  to  receive  power,  and  riches,  and  wisdom,  and  strength,  and 
honor,  and  glory,  and  blessing. 

Blessing  and  honor,  glory  and  power,  be  unto  him  that  sitteth  upon 
the  throne,  and  unto  the  Lamb,  for  ever  and  ever. 

While  these  references  from  Holy  Writ  cover,  broadly  speaking, 
the  life  of  Jesus  Christ,  there  are  many  other  scriptures  that  throw 
much  light  upon  the  great  and  enduring  work  he  accomplished. 

OUR  OBLIGATION  TO  THE  REDEEMER 

In  conclusion  let  me  say  that  we  should  never  forget  the  words  of 
John,  the  beloved  disciple,  as  recorded  in  chapter  3,  verse  16,  in  St. 
John's  gospel : 

For  God  so  loved  the  world,  that  he  gave  his  only  begotten  Son, 
that  whosoever  believeth  in  him  should  not  perish,  but  have  everlasting 
life. 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


This  passage  of  scripture  emphasizes  the  tremendous  obligation 
the  children  of  men  are  under  to  the  Redeemer  who  suffered  for  them  a 
cruel  and  ignominious  death. 

I  testify  to  you  for  myself,  in  all  solemnity,  that  I  do  know  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  and  was  crucified  upon 
Mt.  Calvary  for  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
true  prophet  of  God. 

I  rejoice  with  all  my  heart  and  soul  in  this  testimony,  which  I 
hope  to  have  and  to  retain  all  the  days  of  my  life. 

I  pray  God's  blessings  upon  you  brethren  and  sisters,  and  upon 
the  Presidency  of  the  Church  and  all  the  General  Authorities,  and  all 
the  local  authorities  of  the  Church  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  and  the  people 
of  God  generally.  May  his  blessings  and  power  and  goodness  be  upon 
you  I  pray,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  rejoice,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  in  the  splendid  spirit  that  has  been 
evidenced  in  this  first  meeting  of  this  conference ;  and  am  happy  with  the 
splendid  report  that  has  been  presented  of  Church  progress  in  1935.  It 
is  stimulating  to  know  of  the  very  favorable  conditions  that  prevail 
throughout  the  Church,  and  toward  the  Church  by  our  fellowmen  in 
this  nation  and  in  other  places  throughout  the  world.  I  realize  that, 
after  all,  the  progress  that  we  make  as  a  people  depends  in  large  measure 
upon  our  actions.  I  was  interested  in  the  expression  of  the  President 
that  "Zion  is  growing"  and  is  spreading  abroad. 

WHAT  AND  WHERE  IS  ZION 

What  is  Zion  and  where  is  Zion  ?  I  would  like  to  read  to  you  a  few 
things  that  President  Brigham  Young  stated  about  that  very  thing.  He 
said,  "Where  is  Zion  ?  Where  the  organization  of  the  church  of  God  is. 
And  may  it  dwell  spiritually  in  every  heart.  And  may  we  so  live  as  to 
enjoy  the  spirit  of  Zion  always."  Further  he  said,  "When  we  conclude  to 
make  a  Zion  we  will  make  it ;  and  this  work  commences  in  the  heart  of 
each  person."  Again,  "This  is  the  land  of  Zion.  West  of  us  is  a  body  of 
water  that  we  call  the  Pacific,  and  to  the  east  there  is  another  large  body 
of  water  which  we  call  the  Atlantic,  and  to  the  north  is  where  they  have 
tried  to  discover  a  northwest  passage.  These  waters  surround  the  land  of 
Zion."  Again,  "What  is  Zion?  In  one  sense  Zion  is  the  pure  in  heart. 
But  there  is  a  land  that  will  ever  be  called  Zion.  It  is  North  and  South 
America."  Finally,  he  states  "Zion  will  extend  eventually  all  over  the 
earth.  There  will  be  no  nook  or  corner  upon  the  earth  but  what  will  be 
Zion.   It  will  all  be  Zion." 

ZION  WHERE  VIRTUE  AND  RIGHTEOUSNESS  PREVAIL 

Now,  as  I  read  these  statements  I  conclude  that  Zion  is  a  place  where 
virtue  and  righteousness  are  practised,  and  where  the  love  of  the  Lord 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


21 


prevails.  Wherever  the  Latter-day  Saints  settle  and  practise  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel — unity,  faith,  righteousness,  and  diligence  both  in 
spiritual  and  in  temporal  affairs, — there  is  Zion ;  where  the  organizations 
of  the  Church  are  established,  and  where  the  members  of  the  Church  take 
part  therein.  So  that  Zion,  as  has  been  expressed  this  morning,  is  grow- 
ing and  spreading  abroad  throughout  this  nation  and  throughout  other 
nations.  It  is  our  privilege  and  responsibility  as  Latter-day  Saints,  as 
parents,  and  as  leaders  in  the  stakes  and  wards  and  missions  to  encourage 
every  member  of  the  Church,  whether  young  or  old,  to  endeavor  to  live  in 
such  a  way  as  to  partake  of  the  spirit  of  Zion,  which  is  the  spirit  of  the 
Gospel ;  to  give  of  our  service  to  the  advancing  of  the  interests  of  the 
Church ;  to  qualify  as  men  and  women  who  are  able  to  do  things  m  a 
temporal  way  for  the  progress  of  the  communities  in  which  we  live ;  to 
take  advantage  of  the  opportunities  that  may  be  afforded  us  to  grow 
temporally  as  well  as  spiritually  and  exercise  a  powerful  influence  for 
good  among  all  of  our  f  ellowmen. 

OPPORTUNITIES  FOR  YOUNG  PEOPLE 

I  am  interested,  as  I  am  sure  all  of  us  are  mutually,  in  the  welfare 
of  all  members  of  the  Church,  both  young  and  old.  I  realize  that,  under 
the  conditions  which  have  prevailed  during  the  last  four  or  five  years, 
opportunities  for  the  welfare  and  progress  of  our  young  people  par- 
ticularly have  been  limited.  Our  young  people  are  seeking  oppor- 
tunities to  work  and  to  get  forward  in  the  field  of  life.  Everything  that 
can  be  done  by  all  of  us  toward  obtaining  placements  for  our  young 
people,  and  our  older  members  also,  should  be  done.  Those  who  are  able 
to  furnish  employment  should  strive  to  secure  those  who  are  upright, 
trustworthy,  dependable  and  diligent.  There  is  some  improvement  mani- 
fest in  economic  conditions  at  the  present  time,  and  it  appears  that  there 
are  greater  opportunities  coming  for  all  young  people  who  are  out  of  em- 
ployment. But,  if  they  will  seek  to  qualify  for  life  in  the  largest  measure, 
it  appears  to  me  that  there  are  going  to  be  splendid  opportunities  for  our 
young  people  to  live  their  lives,  to  grow  in  capacity,  and  faith,  and  to  give, 
not  only  of  their  service  for  their  personal  welfare  and  progress  in  a 
financial  way,  but  also  for  the  advancement  of  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

CARE  IN  PLANNING  FUTURE 

They  must  realize  that  the  land  of  Zion  comprises  this  entire  west- 
ern hemisphere ;  and  that  the  spirit  of  Zion,  cherished  in  the  heart  of  any 
Latter-day  Saint,  will  help  him,  wherever  opportunity  may  offer  for 
bettering  his  economic  condition,  to  carry  on  with  the  greatest  peace  and 
satisfaction.  It  is,  of  course,  ordinarily  a  natural  desire  to  reside  in  the 
community  in  which  one  is  raised.  It  requires  courage  to  go  elsewhere 
to  become  established.  Wisdom  and  foresight  and  careful  investigation 
are  needed  in  all  such  cases.  They  must  be  careful  to  resist  the  attitude 
of  looking  for  "greener  pastures"  farther  away,  when  actually  there  are 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


good  opportunities  at  home.  When  desirable  opportunities  do  offer,  and 
when  the  proposed  location  affords  established  Church  organization,  their 
determination  should  be  to  affiliate  with  the  Church  organization ;  and 
take  active  part  in  such  service  along  with  their  employment.  Such 
activity  will  enable  them  to  resist  all  influences  that  are  harmful  to  their 
real  progress  in  life,  and  to  become  "builders  of  Zion." 

Now,  it  seems  to  me  that  in  order  to  be  prepared  to  take  advantage 
of  larger  opportunities,  both  temporal  and  spiritual,  our  young  people 
should  carefully  develop  certain  specific  objectives: 

First,  to  widen  their  material  horizons  to  include  all  localities  where 
the  organizations  of  the  Church  are  established.  To  realize  that  in  all 
this  broad  land,  where  the  Church  is  functioning  and  where  opportun- 
ities are  offered  them  of  suitable  means  of  livelihood,  there  is  no  good 
reason  why  they  should  not  establish  themselves.  To  broaden  their 
spiritual  horizons  so  that  they  gain  a  genuine  testimony  of  the  Gospel, 
and,  at  the  same  time,  respect  the  beliefs  of  others  who  have  different 
creeds,  or  no  creeds.  Even  if  their  occupations  should  take  them  to 
localities  not  provided  with  church  facilities,  they  should  take  the  spirit 
of  Zion  with  them,  and,  as  President  Young  states,  "make  a  Zion." 

COOPERATION  IN  COMMUNITY  WELFARE 

In  connection  with  this  matter,  I  think  that  there  are  opportunities 
in  the  communities  of  this  state  and  other  states  of  this  intermountain 
country  for  economic  improvement.  It  is  evident  that,  particularly  in 
this  state,  one  of  the  requisites  for  growth  in  various  settlements,  is  the 
conserving  of  all  possible  flood  and  waste  waters.  Another  is  the  culti- 
vation of  the  spirit  of  true  cooperation  in  the  development  of  local  enter- 
prises that  will  yield  the  maximum  of  financial  returns  and  of  employ- 
ment to  the  local  people.  This  matter  deserves  the  careful  consideration 
and  initiative  of  the  leaders  in  all  our  communities.  Such  undertakings 
will  help  to  provide  further  opportunities  for  the  young  people. 

PROPER  HOME  TRAINING  AND  CHURCH  ACTIVITY 

The  second  objective  that  I  think  our  young  people  should  gain  is 
proper  home  training,  thorough  Church  teaching  and  spiritual  activity. 
This  is  a  challenge  to  all  parents  and  Church  officers.  Thereby  they  will 
become  established  in  the  faith  of  the  Gospel,  and  bring  forth  the  works 
thereof,  by  living  clean  lives,  by  practising  all  the  splendid  virtues,  such 
as  straightforwardness,  reliability,  industry,  initiative  and  kindliness,  and 
by  exemplary  service  in  the  Church  wherever  they  may  be.  Such  ex- 
amples prove  to  be  a  very  powerful  means  of  missionary  work. 

LEARNING  A  TRADE  OR  PROFESSION 

The  third  objective  for  which,  I  think,  every  boy  and  girl  should 
strive  is  to  be  sure  to  get  a  good  secular  education  which  will  give  them 
a  proper  foundation  upon  which  to  grow  in  knowledge  and  understand- 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


23 


ing.  And  that  education  should  be  coupled  with  sound  religious  train- 
ing that  will  give  proper  balance  to  their  thoughts  and  actions,  and 
develop  a  high  standard  of  character  and  morals.  Likewise,  they  should 
be  able  to  apply  that  knowledge  in  a  practical  way  in  the  affairs  of  life. 
Every  one  should  learn  how  to  do  at  least  one  thing  well — that  is  to 
specialize  in  a  trade,  in  agriculture,  business  or  a  profession. 

RESPONSIBILITY  OF  CHURCH  OFFICERS 

I  think  also  in  a  larger  measure  we  as  general  officers  of  the  Church, 
stake,  ward,  branch  and  mission  officers,  and  members  of  the  priesthood, 
should  consider  and  inquire  after  the  welfare  of  all  the  young  people 
who  are  in  our  midst,  and  make  systematic  effort  to  encourage  them  to 
take  part  in  the  Church  activities,  as  well  as  to  aid  them,  where  necessary, 
to  secure  employment  for  which  they  are  particularly  fitted.  There  is  so 
much  work  that  needs  to  be  done  for  the  advancement  of  the  Church 
in  every  locality  that  every  one  who  is  willing  can  properly  be  assigned 
to  do  that  which  will  be  for  his  spiritual  progress  and  the  welfare  of 
others ;  and  at  the  same  time  whereby  he  will  not  need  to  neglect  either 
his  secular  affairs  nor  his  family.  Thus  he  will  thereby  develop  that 
proper  balance  which  promotes  stability  and  peace  and  happiness. 

UNITY  AND  ACTIVITY  BRING  PROGRESS 

Now,  wherever  the  Latter-day  Saints  may  live,  whether  they  be  in 
the  heart  of  what  we  call  Zion,  where  the  organization  of  the  Church 
is  most  complete,  or  whether  it  be  in  other  localities,  where  there  are  few 
in  number,  it  appears  to  me  that  through  the  unity  and  helpfulness  which 
the  Gospel  teaches,  they  can  help  one  another  to  live  better  lives  by  ex- 
ample and  by  kindly  influence,  and  thereby  promote  greater  spiritual 
strength  among  all  members,  as  well  as  to  interest  those  who  are  not 
members  of  the  Church. 

Another  important  factor  in  the  welfare  and  safety  of  our  young 
people  everywhere  who  take  part  in  Church  affairs  is  that  they  are  thereby 
safeguarded  from  evils,  temptations  and  dangers  to  which  many  others 
succumb.  Attendance  at  church  services  and  giving  service  in  church 
organizations  brings  one  in  contact  with  ward  officers  who  are  interested 
in  the  welfare  of  members.  Thereby,  young  men  and  women  can  obtain 
wise  counsel  and  be  protected  from  despondency  and  rash  actions. 

UPRIGHT  LIVING  PRODUCES  CONFIDENCE 

Experience  proves  that  the  standards  by  which  true  Latter-day 
Saints  live  are  powerful  means  in  enabling  them  to  secure  positions  of 
trust.  Right  living,  high  principles,  faith  and  good  works,  loyalty,  in- 
dustry and  integrity,  coupled  with  particular  aptitude  in  any  direction,  are 
all  greatly  in  demand  in  the  world  of  affairs.  I  have  recently  had  oc- 
casion to  learn  of  many  instances  of  young  people  who  are  recognized 
where  they  are  employed,,  because  of  their  religion.    And,  because  of 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


their  habits  and  qualifications,  which  follow  observance  of  principle,  are 
valued  as  employees  in  the  particular  lines  for  which  they  are  qualified. 
Intelligent  employers  today,  who  are  engaged  in  all  the  various  business 
affairs,  desire  and  demand  employes  of  good  habits,  alert  minds,  trust- 
worthiness, willingness,  persistence,  and  energy.  There  are  many  in- 
stances where  young  people  have  been  employed  simply  because  they  are 
known  as  Latter-day  Saints.  What  a  wonderful  tribute  that  is  to  the 
faith  which  we  have  espoused !  How  important  it  is  that  every  one  of  us 
should  measure  up  to  these  standards,  and  likewise  encourage  every  other 
member  of  the  Church  to  establish  in  his  or  her  life  those  principles  which 
will  make  them  worthy  of  confidence  everywhere. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in  the  Gospel  in  which  we  are 
engaged.  I  realize  that  it  is  a  means  of  growth  in  every  way  for  every 
one  of  us;  and  that  if  we  will  live  for  it  we  shall  be  blessed  in  every 
respect.  If  we  are  active  and  diligent  in  the  promotion  of  faith  and 
righteousness  we  ourselves  shall  gain  the  benefit.  I  rejoice  in  the  fact 
that  this  Gospel  is  divinely  restored  to  us  in  these  days ;  that  through  it 
we  can  gain  so  many  opportunities  and  blessings. 

May  the  Lord  help  us,  every  one,  to  be  appreciative  of  these  things 
and  to  live  for  them.   I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

An  anthem,  "Unfold,  ye  Portals,"  (Gounod),  was  sung  by  the 
Choir. 

Elder  Franklin  L.  West,  Commissioner  of  Education  for  the 
Church,  offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

FIRST  DAY 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

The  music  for  this  session  was  furnished  by  the  Hyrum  Stake 
Choir,  under  the  direction  of  W.  H.  Terry. 

The  opening  selection,  a  hymn,  "Now  Let  Us  Rejoice  in  the  Day 
of -Salvation,"  was  sung  by  the  Choir  and  the  congregation. 

Elder  Fred  G.  Taylor,  President  of  the  New  York  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

An  anthem,  "Invocation,"  (Moore),  was  sung  by  the  Choir. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  crave  at  this  time  a  portion  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord,  that  what  I  may  say  may  be  along  the  same  lines,  and  that 
the  same  spirit  may  be  manifest  as  in  the  first  session  of  this  conference. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


25 


TEACHINGS  OF  THE  MASTER  NECESSARY 

I  have  been  worried  somewhat  over  the  conditions  existing  in  the 
world  today,  and  particularly  our  own  country.  I  am  quite  sure  that  the 
same  feeling  is  in  the  hearts  of  many  of  the  leading  men  of  this  country, 
and  I  do  not  want  the  people  here  to  think  that  what  I  say  or  even 
intimate  is  directed  by  any  other  thought  than  with  a  hope  that  condi- 
tions will  right  themselves,  not  only  in  our  own  country,  but  in  the 
world  at  large.  As  I  think  of  them  I  pray  to  my  Heavenly  Father  every 
day  of  my  life  that  the  teachings  of  the  Master  may  enter  the  hearts  of 
the  people  of  the  world,  and  that  through  the  spirit  of  the  Master 
they  can  conceive  and  understand  the  direction  in  which  the  world  is 
going,  and  that  the  nations  of  the  world  may  call  a  halt  and  return  to  first 
principles.  May  they  realize  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and 
make  as  a  basis  of  the  thought  and  actions  of  the  nations  of  the  world 
the  words  that  the  Master  gave  to  the  world  while  here  upon  the  earth. 

THE  CRIME  OF  INDIFFERENCE 

In  this  connection  I  want  to  call  attention  to  just  a  short  statement 
in  a  speech  that  was  made  by  Chauncey  M.  Depew,  and  this  is  what  he 
said  upon  the  occasion  I  refer  to : 

One  of  the  great  crimes  which  shorten  life  is  indifference.  As  one  loses 
interest  in  his  church,  in  his  political  party,  in  his  club,  in  his  friends,  in  his 
acquaintances,  he  dries  up,  and  the  grave  claims  one  whom  no  one  wants 
to  eliminate.  The  two  most  fatal  phrases  and  the  most  common  are  :  "What 
is  the  use?"  and  "Why  should  I?"  And  when  we  or  anyone  else,  be  it  an 
individual,  a  state,  a  country,  comes  to  that  position,  we  are  in  danger. 

FAITH  LACKING 

And  yet  sometimes  I  think  how  can  it  be  otherwise,  for  you  go  into 
every  country  now,  including  our  own  and  you  find  great  lack  of  faith 
in  the  true  and  living  God ;  in  fact  a  majority,  I  was  going  to  say  a  great 
majority,  of  the  people  of  our  country  have  ceased  offering  supplications 
to  our  Heavenly  Father.  Very  few  attend  services,  and  I  was  going  to 
say  the  half  that  do  go  do  so  not  particularly  because  they  believe  in  the 
church,  but  because  of  their  wife  or  associates. 

ILLITERACY  IN  AMERICA 

I  picked  up  the  American  Scrap  Book  the  other  night,  and  I  turned 
to  page  107,  and  this  is  what  I  read — this  in  America : 

Dwelling  within  four  hundred  miles  of  our  national  capital  are  up- 
wards of  four  million  men,  women,  and  children,  of  pre-Revolutionary 
American  stock,  the  great  majority  of  whom  cannot  name  the  President 
of  the  United  States,  and  never  heard  of  Theodore  Roosevelt,  Woodrow 
Wilson,  Henry  Ford,  John  D.  Rockefeller,  General  Pershing,  or  Charlie 
Chaplin,  even.  Nineteen  in  every  one  hundred  Cumberland  mountaineers 
are  illiterate,  equally  ignorant  of  the  railroad  and  the  automobile. 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


This  is  what  an  observer  says  about  them  after  making  an  exten- 
sive trip  through  the  mountainous  section  of  the  country,  and,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  I  do  not  know  that  it  is  exaggerated,  but  I  do  know 
that  it  is  of  sufficient  worth  for  the  American  people  to  take  some  notice 
of  it. 

THE  FREE  AGENCY  OF  MAN 

I  received  yesterday  morning  the  Millennial  Star  of  March  19th,  and 
in  it  under  the  title  of  "Britain's  Task"  I  read  the  following: 

But  if  God  lives  and  we  are  his  children  why  does  he  permit  war? 
This  question  is  frequently  asked.  Its  answer  is  that  God  has  given  man 
his  free  agency;  hence  he  may  do  as  he  likes — choose  to  serve  God  and 
follow  his  plan  or  permit  himself  to  become  subject  to  the  power  of  evil 
that  is,  Satan,  a  spiritual  being  engaged  in  the  work  of  leading  men  to  their 
destruction.  He  it  is  who  is  the  champion  of  war  and  all  other  agencies 
that  bring  hate,  misery  and  suffering  to  men.  But  with  God's  help  man, 
if  he  wills,  may  overcome  Satan.  Hence  the  problems  of  war  and  peace 
are  made  by  man  himself  and  must  be  solved  by  him  with  God's  help  or 
Satan's,  depending  on  the  influence  he  chooses  to  govern  him. 

That  is  true.  And  when  I  look  over  this  vast  audience  I  cannot  help 
but  feel  that  there  is  a  power  with  the  people  that  are  gathered  in  this 
holy  house  at  this  time  which  if  it  were  manifested  in  our  daily  lives,  not 
in  any  dictatorial  manner,  but  in  the  spirit  of  the  Master,  conditions  in 
this  State  would  be  better,  and  it  would  preach  the  Gospel  as  no  words 
perhaps  could. 

AMERICA,  THE  LAND  OF  OPPORTUNITY 

I  remember  upon  one  occasion  an  address  that  was  given  by  Presi- 
dent Herbert  Hoover,  and  I  think  perhaps  a  number  of  you  heard  it. 
Upon  that  occasion  he  said  this: 

My  country  owes  me  nothing.  It  gave  me,  as  it  gives  every  boy  and 
girl,  a  chance.  It  gave  me  schooling,  independence  of  action,  opportunity 
for  service,  and  honor.  In  no  other  land  could  a  boy  from  a  country 
village,  without  inheritance  or  influential  friends,  look  forward  with 
unbounded  hope.  My  whole  life  has  taught  me  what  America  means. 
I  am  indebted  to  my  country  beyond  my  human  power  to  repay.  It  con- 
ferred upon  me  the  mission  to  administer  America's  response  to  the  appeal 
of  afflicted  nations  during  the  war.  It  has  called  me  into  the  cabinets 
of  two  Presidents.  By  these  experiences  I  have  observed  the  burdens 
and  responsibilities  of  the  greatest  office  in  the  world.  That  office 
touches  the  happiness  of  every  home.  It  deals  with  the  peace  of  nations. 
No  man  could  think  of  it  except  in  terms  of  solemn  consecration. 

LOYALTY  TO  NATION  AND  CHURCH 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  that  is  true  as  to  our  country,  and  I  do  not 
believe  that  there  is  a  people  on  the  earth  that  is  more  loyal  to  her  laws 
than  the  Mormons.    We  believe  that  the  Constitution  of  the  United 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


27 


States  was  an  inspired  instrument  of  God.  We  have  so  declared,  and 
though  persecution  came  we  never  thought  for  a  moment  of  laying  it  to 
the  fundamental  laws,  the  principles  contained  in  that  great  instrument. 

I  do  hope  and  pray  that  we  shall  always  be  loyal  and  true  to  our 
country,  devoted  and  sincere  to  our  Church  and  to  our  God.  I  testify 
to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters  this  day  that  I  know  that  this  is  God's 
work.  I  know  that  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  are  men  whom  God 
through  his  wisdom  has  selected,  if  I  may  say  it,  as  leaders  of  his  Church 
at  this  time.  I  support  them  with  all  my  heart.  Knowing  the  Gospel  to 
be  true,  as  I  do,  the  balance  of  my  life,  be  it  short  or  long,  I  want  to  devote 
to  the  advancement  of  God's  church,  and  I  think  that  men  holding  the 
priesthood,  and  the  young  men  and  the  young  women  of  the  Church, 
are  now  showing  to  the  world  an  example  of  loyalty  to  God's  laws,  and 
they  are  just  as  loyal  to  this  nation  of  ours. 

May  God's  blessings  be  with  us,  direct  us  in  what  we  say,  and  protect 
us  wherever  we  go,  and  may  we  never  forget  him  as  the  giver  of  life 
and  all  that  is  worth  while  in  this  world,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  stand  before  you  this  afternoon  with  a 
good  deal  of  trepidation  and  nervousness,  and  I  trust  that  while  I  am  here 
I  may  have  your  faith  and  prayers,  that  the  time  we  are  together  may  be 
spent  to  our  mutual  advantage. 

We  are  here  as  a  representative  body  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  have  come  from  all  parts  of  the  Church  to 
listen  to  the  instructions  that  fall  from  the  lips  of  the  presiding  authorities 
of  the  Church  in  the  hope  that  we  may  gain  therefrom  courage  to  carry 
us  on  and  faith  to  buoy  us  up  and  strengthen  us  in  the  trials  we  have  to 
face.  We  have  desired  comfort  in  the  past,  and  we  have  always  realized 
that  hope  and  that  faith ;  and  I  pray  that  we  may  be  so  blessed  and  bene- 
fitted today,  that  when  the  conference  shall  have  passed  it  may,  like  its 
predecessors,  be  said  to  be  the  best  ever. 

We  have  a  faith  in  God  our  Father  and  in  Jesus  Christ  his  Son 
That  faith  to  me  is  very  fundamental.  If  I  could  not  have  it  I  would  feel 
at  a  loss  as  to  what  to  do  and  how  to  work.  With  that  faith  there  is  an 
anchor,  a  stone  firmly  set  that  seems  to  support  and  sustain  me  in  all  the 
things  I  have  to  encounter.  God  the  Father  and  Jesus  Christ  his  Son 
are  to  me  realities.  I  believe  that  they  are,  as  we  teach  them  to  be,  real 
personages,  personages  who  have  interest  in  us  and  in  our  welfare.  That 
faith  carries  me  on  through  all  the  trials  I  have  to  undergo. 

They  have  given  us  a  system  that  has  many  wonderful  features  in 
it,  and  not  the  least  perhaps  of  the  wonderful  principles  that  we  call  the 
Gospel  is  our  belief  in  a  future  life  and  in  the  power  that  is  vested  in  us 
to  carry  on  through  that  future  life  with  greater  accomplishments,  with 
greater  attainments  than  we  have  been  able  to  accomplish  here.  We 
believe  that  in  the  future  life  the  organization  and  the  association  and 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  attachments  that  we  form  here  will  carry  on.  Were  it  not  for  that 
there  would  be  many,  many  very  sad  occasions,  but  because  of  that  faith 
these  sad  and  trying  conditions  become  the  stepping  stones  to  greater 
hopes.  Whenever  I  see  winter  come  I  am  glad  because  I  know  there 
will  be  a  spring.  Whenever  I  lie  down  at  night  I  am  glad  of  the  oppor- 
tunity because  I  know  there  will  be  sunshine  on  the  morrow.  There  is 
a  faith  and  hope  in  every  winter  and  in  every  night.  There  is  a  hope 
in  every  spring,  because  in  that  spring  there  is  a  planting,  and  we  hope 
for  a  harvest  in  the  fall.  Likewise  we  hope  and  believe  that  the  transition 
from  this  life  to  another  is  but  a  step  in  the  greater  progress,  the  eternal 
progress  through  all  the  ages  that  are  to  come.  We  believe  that  we  were 
individual  identities  before  we  came  here,  that  we  go  through  this  sphere 
as  an  educational  process,  and  that  we  shall  go  on  to  another  greater, 
more  magnificent  and  more  wonderful  sphere,  and  that  through  all  the 
eternities  to  come  there  will  be  no  limit  in  the  progress  that  our  spirits 
may  attain  to. 

To  me  that  is  the  most  wonderful  thing  about  the  Gospel,  it  is  one  of 
the  most  fundamental  things,  and  it  becomes  a  possibility  only  when  I 
place  my  faith  in  God  the  Father  and  Jesus  Christ  as  his  Son,  as  the 
personages  that  Joseph  Smith  taught  us  they  are — real,  virile,  active  per- 
sonalities who  have  a  concern  in  our  welfare  and  in  the  welfare  of  this 
world.  I  believe  that  they  overrule  the  destinies  of  this  world  for  the 
good  and  advancement  of  those  who  are  placed  in  it.  "The  glory  of  God 
is  intelligence,"  and  because  of  that  and  the  faith  that  we  have  in  a  future 
of  progress,  we  lay  the  foundations  here  for  great  and  grand  educational 
institutions  which  help  us  to  acquire  an  understanding  of  our  condition. 
Intelligence  to  me  is  not  merely  the  cramming  of  my  mind  full  of  learning 
that  I  get  from  books.  Schools  are  not  the  only  media  of  acquiring 
knowledge,  intelligence  does  not,  perhaps,  necessarily  come  from  scholas- 
tic education.  To  me  intelligence  is  the  power  to  meet  conditions  and 
circumstances  and  overrule  them  for  our  mutual  benefit  and  blessing. 
Many  men  have  lived  and  died  who  never  had  the  advantages  of  our 
schools  and  colleges,  but  who  most  certainly  were  among  our  most  intel- 
ligent and  useful  men. 

I  believe  that  those  intelligences  and  those  spirits,  as  well  as  yours 
and  mine,  shall  carry  on  through  all  future  time,  with  greater  realization 
and  greater  accomplishments.  That  faith  is  what  carries  me  on.  That 
faith  is  what  enables  me  to  face  the  changing  circumstances  of  life  with 
a  hope  and  a  faith  that  the  ultimate  will  be  beneficial  to  us.  I  believe  that 
God  so  loves  us  that  he  will  overrule  the  world's  activities  for  our  good. 
When  I  say  our  good  I  do  not  limit  that  to  those  of  us  who  are  gathered 
here,  I  do  not  limit  it  to  those  who  have  joined  the  Church,  but  I  include 
all  our  race,  even  those  who  are  very  much  opposed  to  us  in  our  present 
circumstances  and  in  our  belief. 

I  pray  that  God  may  bless  us  all,  that  he  will  overrule  the  destinies 
of  this  nation,  and  that  he  will  overrule  the  destinies  of  other  nations  of 
the  earth,  so  that  out  of  the  chaos  that  seems  apparent  now  good  will 
come.  We  do  not  know  what  those  changes  may  mean.   They  certainly 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IV INS 


29 


are  significant  and  have  a  meaning,  and  out  of  those  changes  will  come 
advancement  perhaps  just  such  as  we  hope  to  obtain' individually  through 
our  experience  here.  The  change  will  benefit  and  bless  us  even  though 
the  transitional  period  may  be  very  trying. 

I  do  not  feel  like  talking  long  this  afternoon,  but  I  wish  to  say  this 
much,  that  this  faith  is  what  carries  me  on.  If  it  does  not  just  agree  with 
your  faith  I  trust  that  yours  will  be  of  as  much  service  to  you  as  mine 
is  to  me.  But  I  believe  that  all  of  you  who  are  here  believe  very  much 
as  I  do,  that  we  are  here  through  the  design  of  a  loving,  kind,  and  all- 
wise  Father,  that  he  has  planned  this  whole  thing  out,  and  that  it  will 
work  very  much  according  to  his  plan  and  to  our  ultimate  good  and 
blessing. 

I  pray  that  we  may  carry  on  in  faith,  in  sincerity  of  purpose,  and  do 
our  portion,  each  and  all  of  us,  to  roll  this  work  on,  that  it  may  eventually 
fill  the  measure  for  which  it  was  established  in  the  earth  in  this  the  last 
dispensation ;  that  the  purposes  that  God  had,  when  he  visited  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  gave  to  him  again  the  priesthood  and  the  right  to  or- 
ganize the  Church,  may  not  be  hindered  in  any  way  by  anything  that  any 
of  us  may  do,  but  on  the  contrary,  every  act  that  we  perform  may  be  a 
beneficial  one,  and  that  we  may  push  this  work  along  so  that  ultimately 
we  may  realize  our  hopes  and  aspirations.   God  bless  you  all.  Amen. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  humbly  pray  that  I  may  be  aided  by  that  good  spirit  which  comes 
from  on  high.  With  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  believe  that  we  are 
blessed  with  a  religion  that  establishes  our  relationship  to  our  Heavenly 
Father. 

A  JUDGMENT  TO  COME 

Many  thoughtful  people  believe  that  the  appalling  increase  in  crime 
is  due,  in  part  at  least,  to  the  fact  that  men  are  forgetting  that  they  will 
be  required  to  stand  before  the  throne  of  God  and  give  an  account  for 
the  deeds  done  in  the  body.  Young  men  rejoice  in  their  youth  but 
they  should  never  forget  that  God  will  bring  them  into  judgment  for 
all  the  things  they  do  that  are  contrary  to  his  commandments.  Old  age 
does  not  make  up  for  the  deficiencies  that  are  allowed  to  grow  in  the 
life  of  the  youth. 

More  thinking  of  the  next  world  produces  a  restraining  effect  upon 
men  whose  inclinations  urge  them  to  sin.  We  should  never  cease  to 
teach  of  a  judgment  to  come,  persuading  men  to  work  with  a  daily 
unceasing  hope  and  an  ambition  to  make  their  lives  better.  What  a 
miserable  state  a  man  is  in  when  the  latter  end  of  his  days  are  the  worst 
of  his  life. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ASSISTING  IN  BRINGING  PEOPLE  TO  GOD 

Jesus  said,  "And  I,  if  I  be  lifted  up,  will  draw  all  men  unto  me." 
Through  virtue  of  this  lifting  up,  through  virtue  of  the  sacrifice  the 
Lord  Jesus  made  for  sin  and  through  the  atonement  he  made  to  win  our 
redemption,  this  matchless  Teacher,  by  his  word  and  spirit,  draws  us 
unto  God.  It  should  be  our  aim  to  bring  not  only  ourselves  but  other 
people  nearer  to  the  Lord;  each  man  has  a  part  to  play  in  these  dark 
days  of  trouble  and  woe. 

The  poet  said: 

God  give  us  men;  the  time  demands 

Strong  minds,  great  hearts,  true  faith  and  willing  hands. 

Men  whom  the  lust  of  office  does  not  kill, 

Men  whom  the  spoils  of  office  cannot  buy; 

Men  who  possess  opinions  and  a  will ; 

Men  who  can  stand  before  a  demagogue 

And  damn  his  treacherous  flatteries  without  winking. 

Tall  men,  sun-crowned,  who  live  above  the  fog 

In  public  duty  and  in  private  thinking; 

For  while  the  rabble  with  their  thumb-worn  creeds, 

Their  large  professions  and  their  little  deeds 

Mingle  in  selfish  strife,  Lo!  Freedom  weeps, 

Wrong  rules  the  land  and  waiting  Justice  sleeps. 

Men  with  these  qualities  will  cure  the  evils  of  the  world — men,  strong 
men. 

THE  PRESENT  A  PART  OF  ETERNITY 

We  love  the  Gospel  because  it  teaches  a  continuing  personality  in 
the  next  life.  We  must  not  live  for  this  life  alone.  And  yet  our  present 
state  is  a  part  of  eternity. 

John  Quincy  Adams,  the  sixth  president  of  the  United  States,  when 
he  was  eighty  years  of  age  met  a  friend  on  a  Boston  street.  "Good 
morning,"  said  the  friend,  "and  how  is  John  Quincy  Adams  today?" 
"Thank  you,"  was  the  ex-president's  reply,  "John  Quincy  Adams  him- 
self is  well,  quite  well,  I  thank  you.  But  the  house  in  which  he  lives 
at  present  is  becoming  dilapidated.  It  is  tottering  upon  its  foundation. 
Time  and  the  seasons  have  nearly  destroyed  it.  Its  roof  is  pretty  well 
worn  out.  Its  walls  are  much  shattered  and  it  trembles  with  every 
wind.  The  old  tenement  is  becoming  almost  uninhabitable  and  I  think 
John  Quincy  Adams  will  have  to  move  out  of  it  soon;  but  he  himself 
is  quite  well,  quite  well." 

The  immortal  spirit  of  man  lives,  as  a  continuing  personality,  for- 
ever and  forever.  This  is  the  hope  implanted  in  our  hearts  by  the 
Gospel ;  it  is  the  destiny  of  mankind.    God  is  the  father  of  our  spirits. 

CONTINUAL  IMPROVEMENT 

The  thought  of  continual  improvement  is  expressed  in  the  following 
lines : 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


31 


Build  thee  more  stately  mansions,  oh  my  soul, 

As  the  swift  seasons  roll 

Leave  thy  low-vaulted  past. 

Let  each  new  temple  nobler  than  the  last 

Shut  thee  from  heaven  with  a  dome  more  vast, 

Till  thou  at  length  art  free, 

Leaving  thine  outgrown  shell 

By  life's  unresting  sea. 

It  should  be  the  ideal  of  Latter-day  Saints  to  be  at  the  close  of 
each  day  one  step  nearer  heaven.  They  should  have  in  mind  the  building 
of  more  stately  mansions,  mansions  of  character,  of  patriotism,  of  thrift, 
of  morality.  We  do  not  liye  for  ourselves.  Every  man  can  wield  a 
tremendous  influence  for  good,  more  than  he  thinks. 

Benjamin  Franklin  wrote  his  own  epitaph.   This  is  it : 

Like  the  cover  of  an  old  book,  its  contents  torn  out  and  stripped 
of  its  lettering  and  gilding,  lies  here  food  for  worms.  But  the  work  shall 
not  be  lost,  for  it  will,  as  he  believes,  appear  once  more  in  a  new  and 
more  elegant  edition,  revised  and  corrected  by  the  author. 

THE  RESURRECTION  OF  THE  JUST 

We  believe  in  the  glorious  resurrection  of  the  just.  The  Apostle 
Paul  declares  this  heavenly  truth : 

For  if  we  believe  that  Jesus  died  and  rose  again,  even  so  them  also- 
which  sleep  in  Jesus  will  God  bring  with  him. 

For  this  we  say  unto  you  by  the  word  of  the  Lord,  that  we  which 
are  alive,  and  remain  unto  the  coming  of  the  Lord  shall  not  prevent 
them  which  are  asleep. 

For  the  Lord  himself  shall  descend  from  heaven  with  a  shout,  with 
the  voice  of  the  archangel,  and  with  the  trump  of  God :  and  the  dead 
in  Christ  shall  rise  first: 

Then  we  which  are  alive  and  remain  shall  be  caught  up  together 
with  them  in  the  clouds,  to  meet  the  Lord  in  the  air:  and  so  shall  we 
ever  be  with  the  Lord. 

'Wherefore  comfort  one  another  with  these  words.  (I  Thess.  4:14-18.) 

This  is  an  ideal,  this  is  a  stately  mansion  which  we  can  visualize 
because  we  know  the  hope  and  the  comfort  the  Gospel  brings  to  our 
souls  that  our  lives  are  going  to  continue  in  that  eternal  world  where 
every  power  shall  find  sweet  employ.  A  glorious  resurrection,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  is  the  chief  gift  among  the  unsearchable  riches 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

God  help  us  all  to  attain  that,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  the 
Savior.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

•  In  the  prayer  that  was  offered  this  afternoon,  mention  was  made 
of  the  temptations  that  come  to  us  through  the  amusements  and  the 
entertainments  that  enter  into  the  lives  of  men  and  women  and  cause 
them  to  disregard  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  Those  words  brought 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  my  mind  this  thought  about  the  Sabbath  day.  This  day  which  has 
been  given  to  us  as  a  day  of  worship,  a  day  when  we  shall  enter  into 
the  house  of  the  Lord  and  there  offer  up  our  prayers  and  our  sacraments, 
is  at  the  present  time  more  loosely  regarded  by  members  of  the  Church 
than  at  any  other  time  in  our  history.  I  know  that  we  can  not  go  into 
very  definite  detail  about  some  of  the  minor  things  and  say,  this  is  right 
and  this  is  wrong  on  the  Sabbath  day.  As  soon  as  we  get  very  technical 
we  immediately  become  mixed  up  and  we  arrive  at  general  conclusions 
that  are  in  opposition  to  each  other  and  to  the  word  of  the  Lord. 

However,  there  should  be  some  standard  fixed  by  revelation  and 
so  encouraged  by  those  in  leadership  that  there  would  be  no  debate  or 
argument  as  to  whether  certain  things  are  right  or  whether  they  are 
wrong.  In  the  days  of  Moses,  when  the  law  was  given  in  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments, the  Lord  said  we  should  "remember  the  Sabbath1  day  to 
keep  it  holy."  Because  some  of  the  people  did  not  regard  the  Sabbath 
day  just  as  they  should  have  done  the  Lord  caused  certain  retributions 
to  come  upon  them  and  they  were  severely  punished.  In  our  day  many 
people  feel  that  the  punishment  was  too  severe.  Those  who  do  not 
believe  in  the  Lord  will  bring  this  severity  up  as  an  argument  against 
our  scripture  and  against  God. 

In  the  days  of  the  Puritans  their  law  regarding  the  Sabbath  was 
severe  and  very  few  things  could  be  done  on  that  day.  If  one  whistled 
or  'one  played  music  or  any  similar  thing,  there  was  some  penalty  at- 
tached. The  very  strictness  of  the  laws  governing  the  Sabbath  in  the 
past  is  now  being  used  as  an  argument  in  favor  of  making  the  present 
observance  so  open  and  so  loose  that  we  can  do  almost  anything.  There- 
fore, on  our  Sabbath  day  we  have  practically  everything  being  done. 
If  a  man  or  a  girl  is  an  athlete  and  they  are  in  any  way  capable  of  reaching 
the  higher  levels  in  competition,  it  almost  necessitates  playing  at  least 
the  finals  upon  the  Sabbath  day.  If  they  are  not  willing  to  do  this,  they 
are  just  naturally  eliminated  from  participation  in  things  that  are  usually 
desired  by  young  people. 

In  our  Church,  in  a  way  we  have  encouraged  certain  things  on  the 
Sabbath.  Perhaps  at  times  we  have  overdone  our  Fathers'  and  Sons' 
Outing  on  this  day. 

Picture  shows  occur  on  the  Sabbath  day.  Whether  we  should  say 
we  should  or  shouldn't  attend  is  quite  a  debatable  question  among  many 
people.  The  general  argument  is  that  if  we  go  to  our  places  of  worship 
on  the  Sabbath  day  we  are  justified  in  going  to  picture  shows  or  places 
of  athletic  amusements  the  rest  of  the  day. 

When  we  get  to  looking  at  it  from  every  angle  we  find  we  are 
losing  out  by  using  such  arguments.  The  attitude  that  if  we  do  a  few 
things  that  are  right  on  the  Sabbath  day  it  makes  the  others  all  right 
only  confuses  the  question  and  hurts  us.  Such  an  attitude  places  no 
restriction  on  what  we  as  a  people  shall  do  on  the  Sabbath  provided 
we  have  been  to  meeting. 

Now,  just  this  thought.  Though  we  can  not  tell  about  all  the  details, 
there  are  enough  landmarks,  large  landmarks,  that  we  could  at  least  hew 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


33 


to  and  hold  to,  and  if  we  would  do  that,  it  would  enable  us  to  pass  over 
some  of  the  minor  things  that  are  now  affecting  us  in  our  lives.  It 
isn't  a  matter  of  conscience  entirely  as  to  what  we  shall  do  on  the 
Sabbath  day.  It  may  be  to  the  individual.  He  or  she  decides  what  they 
shall  do.  But  the  things  that  individuals  do  collectively  does  not  neces- 
sarily reflect  the  conscience  of  the  Church  or  its  attitude  in  regard  to  right 
or  wrong. 

We  are  given  a  revelation  in  the  59th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants.  There  the  Lord  speaks  of  various  commandments  and 
then  he  reiterates  that  one  commandment  about  worshipping  the  Lord 
on  the  Sabbath  day  and  going  to  his  house  to  partake  of  the  sacrament 
and  to  offer  up  our  prayers. 

To  me  it  seems  that  attending  the  sacrament  meeting  is  one  thing 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  should  do  if  they  shall  in  any  way  feel  that 
they  are  worshipping  God  Almighty  on  the  Sabbath  day  and  are  re- 
membering the  day  to  keep  it  holy.  This  thing  we  can  do,  and  there  is 
no  argument,  there  is  no  reason,  there  is  no  way  of  getting  away 
from  this  commandment.  In  order  to  do  one  thing  in  the  worship  of 
God  "with  a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit"  we  ought  to  attend 
our  sacrament  meeting. 

In  conclusion  may  I  mention  just  this  one  thing.  I  hope  I  am 
understood  in  it.  There  are  certain  people  who  use  some  of  the  fine 
things  we  have  in  the  Church  for  eliminating  other  things  that  we  have 
in  the  Church.  For  example,  we  have  wonderful  Sunday  Schools, — 
something  we  couldn't  do  without,  the  backbone  of  religious  training 
and  worship  for  our  young  people.  But  because  of  the  sacrament  being 
administered  in  our  Sunday  Schools  there  is  a  sentiment  among  our 
people  that  if  they  go  to  Sunday  School  that  takes  care  of  the  sacrament 
and  they  feel  no  obligation  to  attend  the  sacrament  meeting,  which  is 
presided  over  by  the  priesthood  of  the  Lord  and  which  the  Lord  has 
specified  as  one  of  the  meetings  his  saints  should  attend. 

In  the  abundance  of  our  auxiliary  meetings  on  the  Sabbath  day, 
one  after  another,  even  in  the  cause  of  righteousness,  we  become  tired 
and  weary  with  the  day's  labor  and  at  the  end  of  the  day  we  fail  to 
worship  the  Lord  in  the  meeting  that  he  has  specified  as  one  way  of 
honoring  the  Sabbath  day  and  keeping  it  holy. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  guide  us  and  help  us  to  live  finer  and 
better  lives  and  to  understand  more  clearly  what  we  should  do  to  worship 
him  in  spirit  and  in  truth,  I  pray,  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  Say,  What  is 
Truth?"  after  which  the  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "The  King  of  Glory," 
(Parks). 

ELDER  JOSEPH  J.  DAYNES 

President  of  the  Western  States  Mission 

I  should  like  to  express  a  word  of  appreciation  to  this  marvelous 
musical  organization.    The  rendition  of  the  various  numbers  has 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


been  beautiful.  I  extend  my  compliments  to  the  director,  organist, 
and  members ;  and  likewise  to  those  who  have  prepared  the  various 
numbers. 

The  sight  of  this  vast  audience  is  indeed  an  inspiration,  some- 
thing which  we  do  not  experience  in  the  mission  field.  I  bring  you 
greetings  from  the  Western  States  mission,  a  very  delightful  place. 
For  the  benefit  of  those  who  know  not  the  territory  of  which  it  is 
composed,  may  I  say  that  it  includes  the  states  of  Colorado,  New 
Mexico,  Nebraska,  the  major  part  of  Wyoming,  the  Black  Hills  of 
South  Dakota,  and  Council  Bluffs,  Iowa.  Unlike  some  of  the  other 
eastern  missions,  we  have  but  three  million  people  in  our  territory, 
but  in  area  it  covers  a  vast  field.  A  tour  of  the  mission,  which 
contemplates  visiting  each  of  the  various  branches  and  districts, 
would  represent  approximately  ten  thousand  miles  of  travel.  We 
have  eighty-three  missionaries  at  the  present  time,  and  I  am  happy 
to  bring  word  that  they  are  all  well,  and  each  and  every  one  doing 
his  full  duty.  We  feel  very  proud  at  the  reception  that  is  extended 
us  by  the  people  living  in  those  various  states.  Very  little  prejudice 
is  found,  but  the  glad  hand  is  extended  and  we  feel  greatly  comforted 
at  the  progress  that  is  being  made. 

May  I  say  that  we  are  keeping  in  close  touch  with  the  labors  and 
activities  of  our  missionaries,  and  rejoice  in  the  splendid  record  of 
last  year,  showing  an  average  daily  service  in  the  ministry,  of  twelve 
and  one-half  hours  every  day  for  every  one  of  our  missionaries.  Our 
baptisms  for  last  year  were  very  encouraging.  In  fact,  from  what  I 
have  learned,  we  had  the  largest  number  of  baptisms  ever  recorded 
in  any  one  year  since  that  mission  was  organized.  Our  tithes  show 
a  substantial  increase.  The  faith  and  devotion  of  the  people  are 
marvelous  and  beautiful.  We  have  eleven  full-term  missionaries 
out  in  the  mission  field.  There  are  several  others  who  are  getting 
ready,  and  we  feel  comforted  in  the  fact  that  the  parents  in  our  mis- 
sion are  able  to  provide  this  education  for  their  boys  and  girls.  We 
have  had  many  unusual  faith-promoting  incidents.  The  sick,  nigh 
unto  death  in  many  cases,  have  been  marvelously  healed.  We  have 
seen  the  casting  out  of  devils  on  more  than  one  occasion.  The  power 
of  God  has  attended  the  ministry  of  the  elders,  who  are  doing  their 
part  to  promote  the  glorious  doctrines  of  Jesus  Christ.  As  I  think  of 
this  Church  and  its  ideals  and  its  accomplishments,  it  is  nothing  short 
of  marvelous.  To  me,  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  are  one  and  the  same,  insep- 
arable, indivisible,  working  hand  in  hand  together.  The  people  of 
the  world  today,  many  of  them,  are  crying  out  aloud  as  they  did  on 
the  day  of  Pentecost,  "Men  and  brethren,  what  shall  we  do  to  be 
saved  ?" 

The  Gospel  affords  a  happy  retreat.  It  is  the  place  where  men 
and  women  can  be  comforted  and  their  souls  can  be  built  up,  where 
they  can  receive  the  manifestations  of  God  Almighty.  I  thank  my 
Father  in  heaven  for  this  knowledge,  limited  though  it  may  be, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  J.  DAYNES 


35 


of  the  great  truths  as  found  in  this  Church.  I  know  that  God  lives, 
and  I  know  that  Je'sus  is  the  Christ.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
a  prophet,  and  may  I  say,  I  know  that  Heber  J.  Grant  likewise  is  a 
prophet. 

There  has  never  been  a  moment  of  time  since  this  Church  was 
organized,  on  April  the  6th,  1830,  that  the  power  and  the  authority 
of  the  Presidency  and  the  right  to  direct  this  great  latter-day  dispen- 
sation has  not  been  with  this  Church.  It  has  not  been  broken  up. 
It  has  not  been  changed.  It  has  been  continuous.  And  it  offers  to 
the  world  today  that  same  power,  that  same  glory,  and  those  beauti- 
ful privileges  that  were  extended  during  the  life  of  the  Prophet. 

I  want  to  tell  you  the  people  of  the  world  are  beginning  to  ap- 
preciate the  fact  that  there  is  something  to  that  Church  called  "Mor- 
mon;" in  fact,  the  badge  of  Mormonism  today  is  as  the  stamp  of 
sterling  upon  silver.  The  word  "Mormon"  on  our  business  cards  is 
sufficient  to  give  us  entree  into  the  highest  circles  of  citizenship. 

Last  Sunday,  as  has  been  reported  by  President  Grant,  there  was 
dedicated  at  Laramie,  Wyoming,  a  very  wonderful  and  beautifully 
constructed  building  to  be  used  for  the  education  of  the  young  people 
of  the  Church.  The  building  was  crowded,  both  morning  and  after- 
noon sessions.  I  was  very  much  impressed  with  the  remarks  made 
by  Dr.  Crane,  the  President  of  the  University.  He  made  one  state- 
ment that  profoundly  interested  me.  He  said  that  he  had  been 
the  president  of  that  university  for  sixteen  years,  and  during  that 
time  he  had  never  had  one  Latter-day  Saint  boy  or  girl  come  before 
him  for  reprimand.  There  are  three  thousand  students  enrolled  in 
that  university,  one  hundred  and  twenty-five  of  whom  are  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  feel  that  with  the  completion  of  that  building  many 
more  of  our  young  people  who  are  at  the  present  time  going  to  other 
places  for  education  will  remain  in  their  own  state. 

We  have  in  our  mission  twenty-eight  branches,  and  may  I  say 
that  recently  while  in  the  southwestern  part  of  Colorado,  in  one  of 
these  small  branches  in  which  we  have  fifty-five  members  enrolled, 
I  was  thrilled  at  the  spirituality  found.  Of  that  number  there  are 
twenty-two  male  members  over  twelve  years  of  age.  Every  one  of 
them  observes  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  Not  one  of  them  uses  profan- 
ity. Every  one  of  them  pays  a  tithe, — that  is,  those  who  are  old 
enough  and  who  earn  money.  Recently  in  making  a  survey  for 
possible  part-time  missionary  material  in  this  small  branch  we  found 
that  of  the  twenty-one  male  members  there  were  twelve  who  volun- 
teered to  do  missionary  work,  among  them  the  president,  his  two 
counselors  and  the  branch  clerk,  the  presidency  and  secretary  of 
the  Mutual  Improvement  Association,  the  Sunday  School  super- 
intendent, one  counselor  and  the  secretary  and  two  priests.  The 
balance  of  the  twenty-one  were  deacons.  It  is  an  indication  that 
there  is  faith  out  in  the  mission  fields.  And  when  I  go  down  there 
to  visit  these  wonderful  people  I  see  instead  of  ten  per  cent  or  fifteen 
per  cent,  or  twenty  per  cent  of  the  population  of  that  branch  in  at- 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


tendance,  one  hundred  and  fifty  per  cent.  They  bring  in  their 
neighbors  and  friends,  and  they  glory  in  the  opportunity  of  hearing 
the  truths  as  explained  by  the  servants  of  the  Lord. 

I  love  my  work,  my  brothers  and  sisters.  My  life  has  been  spent 
for  many  years  in  the  commercial  field,  but  with  it  I  have  undertaken 
to  be  active  in  the  Church.  Never  have  I  experienced  any  activity 
in  my  life  comparable  with  this  call  that  has  come,  to  preach  the  Gos- 
pel and  to  bring  souls  unto  repentance.  It  is  glorious  and  beautiful. 
And  I  thank  my  Heavenly  Father  that  I  have  thus  been  counted 
worthy. 

I  want  to  say  to  the  parents  and  the  bishops  of  any  of  our  mis- 
sionaries who  may  be  here,  that  they  send  you  their  love.  May  I  sug- 
gest to  you  bishops  if  you  could  occasionally  write  a  letter  to  any  of 
them,  it  would  give  them  great  comfort  and  joy.  One  of  our  elders 
who  has  been  in  the  field  nearly  two  years  said,  "I  have  had  one  letter 
from  my  bishop,  and  oh,  how  I  prized  it.  If  I  could  have  had  more 
I  am  sure  I  would  have  thought  that  he  was  more  interested  in  my 
work."  These  elders  and  these  lady  missionaries,  God  bless  them, 
are  doing  a  marvelous  and  a  wonderful  work,  and  we  are  undertaking 
in  our  humble  way  to  teach  them  true  character  and  glorious  ideals. 

Sister  Daynes  is  doing  a  marvelous  work  with  our  Relief  Society 
sisters.  We  have  some  six  hundred  women  of  the  Church  who  are 
industriously  undertaking  to  follow  the  ideals  of  the  Relief  Society 
work.  When  Sister  Daynes  goes  into  their  midst  she  goes  like  an 
angel  of  peace,  carrying  her  message  of  love  and  stimulation  that 
builds  faith  and  helps  glorious  motherhood. 

May  God  bless  you  all,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  BRYANT  S.  HINCKLEY 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

It  is  never  a  commonplace  task  to  speak  in  this  historic  house.  I 
have  spoken  here  before,  but  not  as  a  missionary;  perhaps  my  brief 
experience  would  not  entitle  me  to  speak  as  such  now.  Going  away 
has  given  me  a  better  appreciation  of  some  things  than  I  had  before. 

During  my  brief  absence  I  have  seen  thousands  of  people  but  I  have 
never  met  any  people  who  seemed  quite  so  satisfied  with  their  surround- 
ings, with  their  homes,  with  their  religion,  as  you  seem  to  be. 

I  have  always  been  interested  in  missionary  work.  My  interest 
in  the  past  has  been  focused  largely  upon  the  effect  this  work  has  upon 
young  people.  In  common  with  you  I  have  seen  a  great  many  young  men, 
undeveloped  and  inexperienced,  untouched  with  the  refining  influence 
of  the  truth,  go  on  missions,  and  return  with  a  new  light  shining  in 
their  eyes,  radiating  a  new  influence,  with  something  working  in  their 
hearts  which  has  brought  about  a  marvelous  transformation  in  their 
lives.  Missionary  experience  makes  a  contribution  to  a  boy's  character, 
to  his  faith,  to  his  development,  that  nothing  else  seems  to  make.  The 
ingenuity  of  man  never  devised  a  plan  for  the  development  of  young 


ELDER  BRYANT  S.  HINCKLEY 


37 


men  and  women  quite  comparable  to  the  missionary  work  of  the  Church. 
I  doubt  if  the  Church  engages  in  any  other  activity  that  brings  to  it 
such  a  constant  vitalization  as  the  missionary  work  does. 

The  Northern  States  Mission  is  made  up  of  a  section  of  the  United 
States  that  is  both  rich  and  populous.  The  Church  in  its  infancy  was 
cradled  in  these  states.  The  cradle  was  rocked  so  violently  that  only  the 
hand  of  providence  saved  it.  It  is  gratifying  to  know  that  the  weary 
feet  of  our  people  never  rested  upon  a  spot  that  was  not  made  greener 
thereby. 

One  of  the  fundamental  obligations  resting  upon  this  Church  is  to 
preach  the  Gospel  to  the  world.  This  is  indeed  a  high  commission,  a 
great  and  exalted  calling,  but  the  second  obligation,  that  of  living  our 
religion,  is  still  higher  and  greater.  I  recently  heard  a  young  missionary 
in  one  of  the  large  cities  of  the  East  sketch  in  outline  the  organization 
of  the  Church,  its  plan  for  solving  the  social  and  economic  problems 
that  vex  and  distress  the  world.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  meeting  a  man 
said  to  me,  "How  does  it  work  out?  You  must  live  in  a  marvelous 
community."  That  is  the  test  to  which  the  Church  must  be  subjected. 
How  does  it  work  out?  My  brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  have  faith 
enough  to  live  the  plain  principles  of  our  religion,  to  practice  what  we 
have  been  taught  all  our  days,  we  are  destined  to  become  the  pride  and 
glory  of  the  earth.  If  we  care  for  our  poor  a  little  better  than  othef 
churches  do;  if  the  youth  of  this  Church  enjoy  greater  opportunities, 
if  they  grow  up  untouched  by  sin,  uncontaminated  with  the  wickedness 
of  the  world ;  if  we  are  distinguished  for  our  honesty,  our  sobriety,  our 
industry ;  if  we  do  actually  live  a  little  longer ;  if  our  lives  are  a  little 
happier — then  we  have  no  need  to  fear !  No  bigotry  can  defeat  us,  no 
malice  can  stay  our  progress,  no  hatred  can  destroy  us.  Philosophers, 
educators,  statesmen,  and  thinkers  will  come  from  afar  to  see  how  we 
do  it.  This  is  the  day  of  demonstration.  1700  missionaries  may 
preach  this  Gospel  loud  and  long,  far  and  near,  but  they  can  never  preach 
it  with  the  convincing  power  that  we  can  do  by  living  it.  We  belong 
to  a  great  Church.  God  help  us  to  honor  it,  to  declare  its  message  to  the 
world  and  to  vindicate  in  our  daily  lives  its  advantages,  I  humbly  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

What  a  blessed  thing  it  is  to  live  in  this  beautiful  world !  I  won- 
der how  well  we  appreciate  the  great  privilege  that  is  given  to  us  in 
the  span  of  human  life.  What  an  opportunity  it  affords  to  every  one 
to  accomplish  something  that  will  be  for  our  eternal  welfare !  God 
has  ordained  that  we  should  have  this  earth-life  experience.  What  a 
beautiful  world  he  has  made  for  us  in  which  to  dwell !  How  grateful 
we  ought  to  be !  When  we  contemplate  the  beauties  of  it  and  look 
out  into  the  world,  and  especially  at  this  time  of  the  year,  when  the 
springtime  is  approaching  and  the  buds  begin  to  swell,  and  leaves 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  unfold,  how  my  heart  thrills  with  the  beauty  of  this  natural  world 
in  which  we  live,  and  my  heart  goes  out  in  gratitude  to  my  Heavenly 
Father  for  the  span  of  human  life.  He  has  been  good  to  me  and  ex- 
tended the  years  of  my  life  very  greatly. 

My  father  used  to  say,  when  he  had  attained  the  ripe  old  age  of 
seventy  years,  "Now  I  have  attained  the  allotted  age  of  man,  three 
score  years  and  ten,  what  years  I  may  yet  live  are  borrowed  time." 
From  that  we  might  suppose,  from  a  life  insurance  point  of  view, 
that  it  would  be  lopped  off  from  somebody  else's  life.  He  lived 
some  six  or  seven  years  after  that  allotted  time.  It  has  been  my 
privilege  to  go  nearly  twelve  years  already  beyond  the  allotted  age 
of  man,  and  I  feel  grateful,  and  I  have  the  hope  in  my  heart  that  I 
may  devote  the  years  that  I  may  yet  live  in  the  service  of  God,  in  the 
building  up  of  his  kingdom  here  upon  the  earth,  this  beautiful  earth, 
this  beautiful  world  in  which  we  live,  and  that  I  may  be  full  of  ad- 
miration and  gratitude  for  the  beautiful  home  which  God  has  made 
for  us. 

I  am  not  blind  to  the  fact  that  there  are  some  things  which 
greatly  mar  the  beauty  of  the  world  in  which  we  live,  and  that  mar 
our  happiness,  not  coming  from  God,  however,  but  from  those  who 
inhabit  this  beautiful  world.  We  read  in  the  newspapers  of  the 
terrible  crimes  that  are  being  committed,  executions  of  judgment 
for  heinous  crimes.  We  read  of  the  terrible  things  that  are  happen- 
ing all  around  us — murders,  robberies  and  other  offenses ;  of  wars, 
and  rumors  of  wars.  We  read  of  the  great  nations  on  the  verge  of 
war.  What  is  the  reason,  and  why  should  these  things  be  in  this 
beautiful  world?  Why  cannot  the  children  of  God  dwell  on  it  in 
peace  and  in  harmony,  and  enjoy  the  great  privileges  and  the  great 
blessings  which  God  gave  to  us  when  he  made  this  world  to  become 
our  habitation  for  the  span  of  human  life,  during  which  period  we 
are  to  be  tried? 

The  Lord  purposes  that  we  should  be  tried,  and  therefore  it  has 
become  necessary  in  order  to  bring  about  the  purposes  of  the  Al- 
mighty that  there  shall  be  opposition  to  the  will  of  God.  God  wills 
that  we  shall  do  right,  that  we  shall  live  in  peace  and  harmony  to- 
gether. God  wills  that  we  shall  live  righteous  lives,  that  we  shall 
love  him  and  keep  his  commandments.  But  the  devil  came  also,  and 
he  was  permitted  to  come,  and  he  exercises  an  influence  upon  the 
children  of  God,  and  leads  them  away  from  God ;  hence  the  confusion, 
hence  the  wickedness,  hence  the  strife,  the  wars,  and  rumors  of  wars, 
and  all  the  wickedness  that  we  see  round  about  us.  Does  the  Lord 
will  that,  or  does  he  not?  What  is  the  occasion  of  this  life,  and  why 
are  we  subjected  and  placed  in  a  position  where  we  have  to  witness 
these  things,  and  hear  of  them,  and  where  we  have  to  come  under  the 
temptations?  Because  the  Lord  deemed  it  necessary  that  there 
should  be  opposition  in  all  things  in  order  that  we  might  be  tried.  • 

When  he  placed  our  first  parents  in  the  Garden  of  Eden  he 
planted  in  the  east  of  Eden  a  wonderful  garden,  with  wonderful  trees 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


39 


growing  there,  and  he  took  the  man  that  he  had  made  out  of  the  dust 
of  the  ground  and  placed  him  in  this  garden.  He  saw  that  it  was 
not  good  for  the  man  to  be  alone,  and  so  he  made  a  helpmate  for  him 
and  placed  them  in  this  garden  in  which  these  wonderful  trees  had 
been  planted,  that  would  supply  all  their  bodily  requirements;  all 
that  they  had  to  do  was  to  stretch  forth  their  hands  and  obtain  the 
things  that  were  needful  for  their  welfare.  In  the  midst  of  that 
garden  God  planted  also  two  very  marvelous  trees,  the  Tree  of 
Knowledge  of  Good  and  Evil  and  the  Tree  of  Life.  They  were 
somewhat  different  in  their  nature  from  other  trees.  I  do  not 
know  just  what  fruit  was  being  yielded  upon  those  other  trees.  There 
may  have  been  pear  trees,  apple  trees,  etc.,  but  one  thing  we  are 
quite  sure  about,  there  must  have  been  a  fig  tree,  as  we  read  further 
in  regard  to  the  products  of  that  tree.  But  the  fruit  of  the  Tree 
of  Knowledge  of  Good  and  Evil  was  something  different,  not  like 
the  apple  or  the  pear,  it  doesn't  partake  of  that  nature  at  all. 

Just  as  a  pear  is  the  fruit  of  a  pear  tree,  or  the  peach  or  the  apple 
is  the  fruit  of  the  peach  or  the  apple  tree,  so  too  is  Knowledge  of 
Good  and  Evil  the  fruit  of  the  tree  that  bears  that  name.  And  Life, 
by  which  I  mean  eternal  life,  is  the  fruit  of  the  Tree  of  Life.  A  tree  is 
known  by  the  fruit  it  bears,  and  "by  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them." 
That  is  the  nature  of  every  plant  that  grows. 

And  now  then,  this  wonderful  tree  of  Knowledge  of  Good  and 
Evil.  Why  should  there  be  opposition  to  the  will  of  God?  Because 
light  has  come  into  the  world  and  with  that  light  comes  responsi- 
bility, the  free  agency  of  man,  because  we  had  to  choose  between 
good  and  evil,  having  partaken  of  the  fruit  of  the  tree  that  bears  that 
name.  How  could  Ave  choose  between  good  and  evil  if  it  were  all 
good?  Hence  the  necessity  for  opposition  to  the  will  of  God,  and 
the  devil  came  also  and  lured  them  away  from  God,  and  they  broke 
the  law  of  heaven. 

What  is  the  law  of  heaven?  Obedience  to  the  will  of  God,  for 
"man  shall  not  live  by  bread  alone,  but  by  every  word  that  proceedeth 
forth  from  the  mouth  of  God."  Obedience,  then,  is  the  first  law  of 
heaven.  Partaking  of  the  fruit  of  the  Tree  of  Knowledge  of  Good 
and  Evil  of  course  was  forbidden,  not  because  it  was  undesirable,  not 
because  there  was  anything  in  it  of  itself  that  was  wicked,  not  by  any 
manner  of  means.  For  how  could  we  be  saved  unless  we  had  that 
knowledge  of  good  and  evil?  How  could  we  choose  between  the 
two?  Impossible.  Therefore  the  opposition  came  and  we  must  be 
proven  as  to  whether  we  would  do  all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord 
God  should  command  us  to  do.  Obedience  to  the  law  of  heaven  is 
an  essential  condition  of  salvation,  and  an  essential  condition  in 
heaven. 

I  sometimes  think  of  this  world  and  compare  it  with  what  it  was 
before  the  curse  of  the  Almighty  came  upon  it  in  the  Garden  of  Eden, 
where  everything  was  beautiful  and  everything  was  peace  and  tran- 
quility, the  lion  and  the  lamb  lying  down  together,  and  all  was 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


harmony.  It  must  have  been  beautiful  indeed.  It  is  referred  to  in  the 
scripture  as  "the  garden  of  the  Lord."  Isaiah  tells  us :  "For  the 
Lord  shall  comfort  Zion  ;  he  will  comfort  all  her  waste  places ;  and  he 
will  make  her  wilderness  like  Eden,  and  her  desert  like  the  garden 
of  the  Lord;  joy  and  gladness  shall  be  found  therein,  thanksgiving, 
and  the  voice  of  melody."  (Isa.  51 :3.)  Surely  then  the  Garden  of 
Eden  must  have  been  beautiful,  a  little  heaven  on  earth.  It  was 
Paradise. 

Adam  and  Eve  violated  the  law  of  heaven  by  breaking  God's 
commandment  and  hearkening  to  the  devil,  and  therefore  they  were 
driven  out  of  Eden.  Shall  the  devil  rule  in  heaven?  Why  did  the 
Savior  teach  us  to  pray :  "Thy  kingdom  come,  thy  will  be  done  in 
earth  as  it  is  in  heaven"?  Whom  shall  we  obey?  God  or  the  devil. 
Whomsoever  ye  list  to  obey  his  servant  ye  are.  Such  then  was  the 
Garden  of  Eden.  But  on  account  of  disobedience  the  Lord  cursed 
the  earth — not  Adam  and  Eve — he  cursed  the  earth  for  their  sakes. 
No  longer  could  they  stretch  forth  their  hands  and  get  without  effort 
the  things  that  they  needed.  No,  they  must  earn  their  living  by  the 
sweat  of  their  brow.  There  were  no  thorns  or  thistles  there  at  the 
beginning.  Now  Adam  must  earn  a  livelihood  on  this  earth  under 
the  curse  that  was  placed  upon  it,  with  thorns  and  thistles  to  contend 
with,  and  many  other  things  that  they  had  to  contend  with  under  the 
curse  which  God  had  put  upon  the  earth  for  their  sakes. 

Are  we  to  regard  this  early  episode  in  the  history  of  our  race  as  a 
calamity  ?  No  !  indeed !  Was  the  fall  of  Adam  in  reality  a  mis- 
fortune? Again  no,  indeed !  For,  as  we  read  in  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
if  Adam  and  Eve  had  not  transgressed  there  would  have  been  no 
progress  but  they  would  have  remained  forever  in  the  same  state  in 
which  they  were  then  first  created — in  a  perfect  state  of  innocence, 
"having  no  joy,  for  they  knew  no  misery,  doing  no  good,  for  they 
knew  no  sin."  Therefore  to  bring  about  the  eternal  purposes  of  God 
in  the  end  of  man  it  was  found  necessary  that  there  should  be  opposi- 
tion. And  furthermore  there  would  have  been  no  children  and  hence 
we  would  have  been  deprived  of  our  golden  opportunity  of  living 
upon  this  beautiful  earth,  this  probationary  period,  the  span  of 
human  life.  But  the  Lord  desires  that  our  eyes  shall  be  open,  that 
we  shall  have  knowledge  of  good  and  evil,  and  therefore  we  are  ex- 
posed to  them,  and  blessed  are  we  if  we  will  choose  the  good  and 
reject  the  evil.  We  do  not  have  to, do  the  wrong;  we  should  do  the 
right,  and  if  we  do  the  Lord  is  bound,  under  the  covenant  that  he  has 
made  with  us.  If  we  shall  do  all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord  our 
God  shall  command  us,  there  shall  be  glory  added  upon  our  heads 
forever  and  ever.  That  is  the  promise ;  it  is  God's  covenant.  We  are 
a  covenant  people,  and  that  covenant  has  been  restored  to  the  earth 
with  the  restoration  of  the  glorious  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord, 
and  all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord  our  God  shall  command  us  are 
embodied  in  that  glorious  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

Obedience,  then,  to  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  will 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


41 


entitle  us  to  eternal  glory,  worlds  without  end.  That  is  the  promise. 
The  Lord  keeps  his  covenants.  Men  do  not  always  keep  their  cove- 
nants. What  a  wonderful  thing  this  covenant  is  that  the  Lord  has 
made  with  us ! 

What  is  a  covenant  ?  If  you  will  look  at  your  dictionary  you  will 
find  that  it  is  defined  as  an  agreement  between  two  persons  or  parties. 
Sometimes  those  agreements  are  made  between  nations,  and  then 
they  are  called  treaties,  and  they  are  usually  entered  into  by  being 
signed  by  the  executive  heads  of  those  nations  or  governments  and 
then  ratified  by  their  legislative  bodies.  Such  are  the  treaties  that 
are  made  with  the  nations.  They  are  intended  to  be  solemn  pledges 
whereby  they  bind  themselves  with  one  another  to  make  good  the 
agreements  they  enter  into  with  each  other.  What  a  terrible  shock 
it  was  during  the  World  War  to  hear  the  ruler  of  one  great  nation 
refer  to  his  solemn  treaty  as  "a  mere  scrap  of  paper,"  but  in  these 
later  days  we  are  getting  used  to  that,  and  these  dictatorial  rulers  of 
many  great  and  wonderful  nations  are  treating  their  solemn  treaties 
like  mere  scraps  of  paper;  but  they  should  not  be  so  treated,  they 
should  be  solemnly  and  truthfully  and  faithfully  kept.  Between  in- 
dividuals we  draw  up  an  instrument  and  we  sign  it,  and  have  it 
signed,  sealed  and  delivered  in  the  presence  of  witnesses,  and  then 
go  before  a  notary  public  or  a  justice  of  the  peace  and  make  oath  in 
order  to  make  it  binding,  and  in  order  that  it  may  be  still  more  so, 
laws  are  passed  imposing  penalties  for  breach  of  contract.  These  are 
in  the  nature  of  covenants  which  men  make  with  their  fellow  men. 

What  must  we  then  think  of  a  covenant  where  God  himself 
is  the  party  of  the  first  part?  Such  a  covenant  God  has  made  with 
every  one  of  us.  He  has  entered  into  an  agreement  with  us.  If  you 
will  do  all  things  which  the  Lord  your  God  shall  command  you;  if 
you  will  do  his  will,  you  shall  have  glory  added  upon  your  heads  for- 
ever and  ever.  That  is  the  pledge,  and  God  keeps  his  covenant  and 
we  should  do  the  same. 

How  do  we  enter  into  that  covenant?  Not  by  signing  a  written 
instrument.  True.  But  in  a  most  impressive  manner  and  a  most 
authoritative  manner.  The  Lord  commissions  his  servants,  bestows 
upon  them  his  priesthood  and  authorizes  them  to  perform  sacred  or- 
dinances, the  same  as  if  he  had  signed  it  in  person.  They  call  atten- 
tion to  the  necessity  of  following  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  obeying 
his  Gospel,  doing  all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord  shall  command  us. 
That  is  the  contract,  and  we  enter  into  it  in  a  most  solemn  way.  What 
is  the  formality  of  it,  if  not  by  writing  with  pen  and  ink?  It  is  by 
baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins.  What  a  wonderful 
and  impressive  formality  !  Could  anything  be  more  so  ?  In  baptism 
by  immersion  we  symbolize  both  death  and  life,  for  as  the  Apostle 
Paul  explains :  "We  are  buried  with  Christ  by  baptism  into  death 
and  brought  forth  out  of  the  watery  grave  in  likeness  of  his  glorious 
resurrection.  This  is  also  symbolized  in  the  story  of  the  Garden  of 
Eden  and  the  two  marvelous  trees  that  were  planted  in  the  midst  of 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  garden — the  Tree  of  the  Knowledge  of  Good  and  Evil  concerning 
which  God  commanded  "Thou  shalt  not  eat  of  it,  in  the  day  that  thou 
eatest  thereof  thou  shalt  surely  die."  Therefore,  for  sin,  death.  The 
other  tree — the  Tree  of  Life — eternal  life,  God's  greatest  gift  to 
man,  which  will  come  to  those  who  do  his  will.  Again  as  the  Apostle 
Paul  tells  us :  "For  the  wages  of  sin  is  death  but  the  gift  of  God  is 
eternal  life  through  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord."  (Rom.  6:23.)  All  this 
is  symbolized  in  the  holy  ordinance  of  "baptism  by  immersion  for 
the  remission  of  sins,"  and  this  is  valid  only  when  performed  by  one 
who  has  been  duly  commissioned  of  Jesus  Christ  the  Lord.  After  this 
it  is  ratified  by  "the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost"  by  one  having  authority,  just  as  Peter  declared  on  the  day 
of  Pentecost:  "For  the  promise  is  unto  you  and  to  your  children 
and  to  all  that  are  afar  off,  even  as  many  as  the  Lord  our  God  shall 
call."  This  is  the  seal  of  the  covenant  by  which  it  is  ratified  and 
those  receiving  it  are  confirmed  members  of  his  church. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  be  true  to  the  covenants  we  have  made 
with  him  in  the  waters  of  baptism,  and  so  to  live  that  we  may  have 
those  glorious  blessings  in  this  beautiful  world,  when  it  shall  be  re- 
newed and  receive  its  paradisiacal  glory,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  wish  again  to  thank  this  wonderful  choir  for  being  here  and  for 
so  thoroughly  inspiring  us  with  their  music. 

An  anthem,  "The  Heavens  are  Telling,"  (Haydn),  was  sung  by 
the  Choir. 

Elder  Danford  M.  Bickmore,  President  of  the  Hyrum  Stake,  of- 
fered the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday,  April  5,  9 :30  a.  m. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Sunday  morning,  April  5. 

As  a  prelude  to  the  third  session  of  the  Conference  a  program 
of  choral  and  organ  music  was  rendered  by  the  Tabernacle  Chojr  and 
Organ  from  9 :30  to  10 :30  a.  m.,  which  program  was  broadcast  by  radio 
throughout  the  United  States  and  Canada  over  the  Columbia  Broad- 
casting System's  network,  originating  over  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City. 

As  the  time  approached  for  commencing  the  broadcast  every  avail- 
able seat  and  space  in  the  great  Tabernacle  auditorium  and  galleries 
was  occupied,  and  in  addition  thousands  of  people  assembled  on  the 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 


43 


Temple  Square  and  in  the  large  Assembly  Hall  immediately  south  of 
the  Tabernacle,  where,  by  means  of  amplifying  equipment  they  listened 
to  the  musical  program  and  the  Conference  proceedings  as  they  were 
broadcast  from  the  Tabernacle. 

The  following  program  was  broadcast : 

"The  Spirit  of  God  Like  a  Fire  is  Burning"  (Phelps) — Choir. 
"Hymn"  (Wely) — Organ. 

"O  Thou  from  Whom  all  Blessings  Come"  (Tschaikowsky)  — 
Choir. 

"The  Holy  City"  (Adams)— Organ. 

"Say  Watchmen,  What  of  the  Night"  (Sullivan)— Choir. 

"Sweet  is  the  Work"  (McClellan)— Organ. 

"O  Great  is  the  Depth"  (Mendelssohn) — Choir. 

"The  Voice  of  God  Again  is  Heard"  (Stephens) — Choir. 

"Deep  River"  (arranged  by  Frank  W.  Asper) — Organ. 

"Holy  Art  Thou"  (Handel)— Choir. 

"Pilgrim's  Chorus"  (Wagner) — Organ. 

"Home  Sweet  Home"  (Bishop — arranged  by  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall)— Choir. 

"Abide  With  Me"  (arranged  by  Frank  Asper) — Organ. 
"Rise  Up,  Arise"  (Mendelssohn) — Choir. 

The  Choir  was  conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  Organ  accom- 
paniments and  organ  solo  presentations  were  played  by  Frank  W.  Asper. 

At  the  conclusion  of  the  foregoing  broadcast,  at  the  request  of 
President  Heber  J.  Grant,  the  congregation  and  Choir  sang  the  hymn, 
"O  Ye  Mountains  High." 

Elder  Arthur  Winter  offered  the  invocation. 

ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

It  is  a  privilege  and  also  a  great  opportunity  to  stand  here  before 
you  and  look  at  this  vast  audience,  this  mighty  horde  which  has  come 
from  a  very  small  beginning.  God  has  directed  and  has  chosen  the 
men  who  should  lead  and  guide  this  work  up  to  the  present  and  to 
this  very  day. 

In  the  conditions  in  which  we  find  ourselves  situated  it  is  very 
fortunate  at  least  that  we  can  look  back  and  trace  with  an  honorable 
hand  the  advancement  of  our  people  from  the  beginning  of  this 
Church.  No  other  spot  on  the  earth  has  such  religious  gatherings 
as  this.  In  no  other  place- may  we  find  such  a  united,  wonderful 
people.  No  place  on  this  footstool  of  God  are  there  hearts  raised 
in  praise  to  their  Heavenly  Father  for  the  mercies  and  the  blessings 
they  receive,  equal  to  the  fervor  and  sincerity  which  we  have  here 
today  among  us. 

It  is  a  strange  thing  that  having  come  in  poverty  and  toil  and  in 
trial  into  these  valleys,  our  fathers,  even  as  did  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
passed  through  a  period  of  suffering,  trial,  tribulation  and  prepara- 


44 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


tion  for  the  work  which  was  to  come  to  their  children,  even  to  us 
Even  as  Jesus  Christ  was  forty  days  and  forty  nights  in  the  wilder- 
ness without  food,  so  did  our  fathers  go  many  years  in  trial  and 
anxiety  to  prepare  that  of  which  you  and  I  are  recipients  and  for 
which  we  stand  ready  to  give  our  service,  unto  the  work  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ. 

You  will  recall  that  Moses,  speaking  to  his  people  said :  "And 
I  have  led  you  forty  years  in  the  wilderness ;  your  clothes  are  not 
waxen  old  upon  you  and  thy  shoe  is  not  waxen  old  upon  thy  foot." 
Even  so  today  we  can  see  by  this  great  assembly  that  the  truths  of 
the  teachings  of  Christ  and  the  masterful  things  which  have  been 
given  to  us  by  our  fathers  have  not  waxed  old  upon  us. 

There  came  to  me  a  day  or  two  ago  a  message  from  New  Zea- 
land, that  land  "way  down  under."  I  would  like  to  read  it  to  you  be- 
cause a  cablegram  from  that  people  is  rather  a  unique  thing,  particu- 
larly because  I  received  it  a  clay  before  it  was  sent.  They  are  just 
beyond  the  180th  meridian  and  about  38  degrees  south  of  the  equator. 
This  cablegram  was  sent  from  Dannevirke,  New  Zealand,  and  says : 

"Conference  assembled  at  Tahoriti.  Huge  concourse,  both 
Maori  and  European  send  greetings.  Wonderful  spirit.  (Signed) 
New  Zealand  Saints." 

This  is  the  spirit  which  actuates  all  the  people  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  the  world  over,  the  spirit  which  is  breathed  every- 
where by  you.  Your  sons  and  your  daughters  have  traveled  the 
highways  in  all  the  principal  cities  of  the  world.  They  have  acquired 
the  culture,  the  art,  and  the  refinement  of  all  nations  and  all  coun- 
tries, bringing  back  with  them  as  they  do  to  this  great  hive  of  hu- 
manity, which  we  have  here  today,  their  knowledge  and  their  power. 

It  is  plain  to  see  that  we  as  a  people,  blessed  as  we  are  by  our 
Heavenly  Father,  should  be  the  people  to  lead  out  in  all  noble,  praise- 
worthy enterprises.  We  should  be  the  people  who  can  and  will  con- 
quer depression.  We  should  be  by  our  faith  and  by  our  love  and  by 
our  industry  trained  and  taught  to  do  those  things  that  bring  hap- 
piness and  joy  into  the  hearts  of  mankind. 

Just  one  thing  more  and  I  think  my  .ten  minutes  will  be  up.  In 
a  statement  made  by  Herbert  Kaufman  he  says :  "The  new  era  has 
cancelled  the  lie  of  vested  right.  Position  and  assured  status  can  no 
longer  be  inherited.  The  millions  have  at  last  overtaken  the  thou- 
sands. The  sons  of  service  are  standing  shoulder  to  shoulder  with 
the  sons  of  privilege.  The  barrier  is  down, — this  is  the  day  of  equal 
chance — when  any  man  may  have  what  he  wills  if  he  possesses  the 
strength  to  reach  it." 

God  grant  that  we  may  possess  that  strength,  that  faith,  to  reach 
our  own  individual  and  collective  ideals  in  the  wonderful  work  in 
which  we  are  engaged,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


45 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR  BROADCAST 

At  10:50  a.  m.  Conference  proceedings  were  interrupted  to  pre- 
pare for  the  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast  which  commenced  promptly 
at  1 1 :00.  This  program,  presented  on  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  Sys- 
tem's regularly  scheduled  Church  of  the  Air  series,  was  released  by 
more  than  seventy  important  network  stations  throughout  the  United 
States  and  Canada  and  was  carried  by  short  wave  to  Europe  and  other 
countries.    The  radio  announcer  was  Richard  L.  Evans. 

The  program  opened  with  the  Choir  and  congregation  joining  in 
the  singing  of  the  hymn,  "How  Firm  a  Foundation." 

-PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

HAPPINESS  AND  STRENGTH  OF  CHARACTER  FOUND  IN  LOSING  SELF  FOR 
THE  GOOD  OF  OTHERS 

All  mankind  desire  happiness.  Many  also  strive  sincerely  to  make 
the  most  and  best  of  themselves.  Surprisingly  few,  however,  realize 
that  a  sure  guide  to  such  achievement  may  be  found  in  the  following 
declaration  by  Jesus  of  Nazareth:  "Whosoever  will  save  his  life  shall 
lose  it :  And  whosoever  will  lose  his  life  for  my  sake  shall  find  it." 

A  SIGNIFICANT  PRINCIPLE 

This  significant  passage  contains  a  secret  more  worthy  of  possession 
than  fame  or  dominion,  something  more  valuable  than  all  the  wealth  of 
the  world, 

It  is  a  principle  the  application  of  which  promises  to  supplant 
discouragement  and  gloom  with  hope  and  gladness;  to  fill  life  with 
contentment  and  peace  everlasting.  This  being  true  its  acceptance  would 
indeed  be  a  boon  today  to  this  distracted,  depression-ridden  world.  Why, 
then,  do  men  and  nations  ignore  a  thing  so  precious  ? 

Is  the  truth  in  the  paradoxical  statement,  losing  one's  life  to  find 
it,  so  elusive  that  mankind  cannot  grasp  it?  Or  is  it  so  in  conflict  with 
the  struggle  for  existence  that  men  consider  it  impractical? 

Even  so,  the  fact  remains  that  He  who  is  "The  Way,  the  Truth 
and  the  Life"  has  herein  set  forth  an  immutable  law,  obedience  to  which 
will  ameliorate  those  social  and  economic  conditions  in  which  "Man's 
inhumanity  to  man  makes  countless  thousands  mourn." 

Specifically  stated,  this  law  is,  "We  live  our  lives  most  completely 
when  we  strive  to  make  the  world  better  and.  happier."  The  law  of 
pure  nature,  survival  of  the  fittest,  is,  self  preservation  at  the  sacrifice 
of  all  else;  but  in  contrast  to  this  the  law  of  true  spiritual  life  is,  deny 
self  for  the  good  of  others. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  accepts  as  funda- 
mental this  law  of  life.    Faithful  members  thereof  are  convinced  that 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


only  in  its  application  can  true  happiness  be  found  or  a  truly  great 
character  be  developed;  and  they  believe  with  Emerson  that  "character 
is  higher  than  intellect — a  great  soul  will  be  fit  to  live  as  well  as  to 
think."  To  them,  also,  the  safety  and  perpetuity  of  our  nation  depend 
upon  the  character-building,  law-abiding  individual. 

SERVICE  TO  OTHERS 

Therefore,  in  the  heart  of  every  true  Latter-day  Saint  the  voice 
of  the  Lord  is  ever  whispering  this  recorded  revelation : 

"Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of  God ;" 

"And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your  days,  and  bring 
save  it  be  one  soul  unto  me,  how  great  shall  be  your  joy  in  the  kingdom 
of  my  Father!" 

With  this  end  in  view,  50,000  men  and  women,  serving  willingly 
without  salary,  offer  every  week  to  over  500,000  children  and  youth 
instruction  and  guidance  in  character-building  and  spiritual  growth. 
In  addition  to  this  army  of  officers  and  teachers,  185,000  men  ordained 
to  the  priesthood  have  accepted  the  obligation  to  devote  their  time  and 
talents  as  far  as  possible  to  the  scattering  of  sunshine,  joy,  and  peace 
among  their  fellowmen. 

In  all  such  efforts  these  men  and  women  are  but  actuated  by  the 
high  ideals  of  the  prophet  of  the  19th  century  who,  exemplifying  the 
teachings  of  Christ  said,  "If  my  life  is  of  no  value  to  my  friends,  it's 
of  no  value  to  me." 

Never  was  there  a  time  in  the  history  of  the  world  when  the  applica- 
tion of  this  principle  was  more  needed.  Therefore,  let  sincere  men 
and  women  the  world  over  unite  in  earnest  effort  to  supplant  feelings 
of  selfishness,  hatred,  animosity,  greed,  by  the  law  of  service  to  others, 
and  thereby  promote  the  peace  and  happiness  of  mankind. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

FAITH,   BELIEF   AND   KNOWLEDGE   OF   THIS   CHURCH  CONCERNING 

JESUS  CHRIST 

I  wish  to  state  the  faith,  the  belief,  and  the  knowledge  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  regarding  Jesus  of  Nazareth. 

CHRIST,  THE  CREATOR  OF  THE  WORLD 

We  accept  literally  the  words  of  John  concerning  the  Christ :  "In  the 
beginning  was  the  Word,  and  the  Word  was  with  God,  and  the  Word 
was  God."  The  Christ  has  declared  in  our  own  day:  "I  was  in  the 
beginning  with  the  Father,  and  am  the  Firstborn." 

We  also  accept  John's  declaration  that  Jesus  Christ  was  the  Creator 
of  the  world,  that  "all  things  were  made  by  him,  and  without  him  was 
not  anything  made  that  was  made." 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


47 


We  believe  that  in  a  great  council  in  heaven  held  before  the  world 
was,  Satan  proposed  one  plan  for  creating  and  ruling  the  world  and  its 
progeny,  and  that  Christ  proposed  another;  that  Satan's  plan  was  re- 
jected, as  taking  away  the  agency  of  man,  and  Christ's  was  accepted  as 
keeping  man's  agency. 

We  believe  that  in  obedience  to  the  Plan,  Christ  created  the  world 
and  all  that  in  it  is,  first  spiritually,  then  temporally,  and  that  in  this 
work  of  creation  he  acted  as  one  of  the  Great  Trinity  of  three  distinct 
personages,  the  Godhead,  the  Father,  the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost. 

PERSONAL  APPEARANCES  TO  MAN 

We  believe  that  following  this  creation,  the  Lord  from  time  to  time 
showed  himself  to  man,  either  in  person  or  in  vision,  or  dream,  or  by 
speech,  beginning  even  with  Adam,  and  later  to  Enoch,  Noah,  Abraham, 
Moses,  Samuel,  Daniel,  and  others  on  the  Eastern  hemisphere,  and  to 
many  prophets  on  the  Western  continents;  that  on  this  hemisphere,  in 
one  of  the  most  glorious  theophanies  of  all  time,  the  Lord  showed  him- 
self, before  his  birth,  to  the  brother  of  Jared,  the  man  of  greatest  faith 
to  his  time,  saying:  "Because  of  thy  faith  thou  hast  seen  that  I  shall 
take  upon  me  flesh  and  blood."  "Behold,  this  body,  which  ye  now 
behold,  is  the  body  of  my  spirit;  and  even  as  I  appear  unto  thee  to  be 
in  the  spirit  will  I  appear  unto  my  people  in  the  flesh." 

Christ's  birth  and  atonement 

We  believe  that  in  the  Meridian  of  Time,  Mary  the  virgin  gave 
birth  to  Jesus,  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father,  in  very  deed  and  fact 
the  Son  of  God;  that  Jesus  was  crucified  upon  the  cross;  that  he  was 
buried  and  lay  in  the  tomb  till  the  morning  of  the  third  day  when  he 
was  verily  resurrected  from  the  dead — that  is,  his  spirit  and  his  body 
reunited  and  he  rose  from  the  tomb  a  perfect,  glorified,  living  soul,  that 
thus  Christ  atoned  for  Adam's  fall  from  which  man  is  so  redeemed,  and 
that  all  men  will  by  reason  of  that  atonement  be  resurrected — that  is,  the 
body  and  the  spirit  of  every  person  born  into  the  world  will  at  some  time 
after  death,  and  in  the  due  course  of  the  Lord,  be  reunited,  thus  fulfilling 
Paul's  saying :  "As  in  Adam  all  die,  even  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be  made 
alive." 

We  believe  that  except  for  this  atonement  of  Christ  for  the  fall  of 
Adam,  man  would,  through  all  the  eternities,  have  remained  under  the 
penalty  of  the  mortal  and  spiritual  death  brought  upon  the  human  family 
by  Adam. 

We  thus  believe  Christ  to  be  in  the  full,  true,  and  most  literal 
sense,  the  Creator  of  the  world,  one  of  the  Godhead,  the  Only  Begotten 
of  the  Father,  the  Son  of  God,  the  promised  Messiah,  the  first  fruits 
of  the  resurrection,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world. 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


A  GLORIOUS  MANIFESTATION  IN  THIS  DISPENSATION 

We  believe  that  some  eighteen  hundred  years  after  the  Son's  death 
and  resurrection,  the  Father  and  the*  Son,  two  glorified  personages  having 
human  form,  appeared  to  a  boy  fourteen  years  of  age,  even  as  the  Lord 
came  of  old  to  the  child  Samuel  in  the  Temple ;  that  the  Father,  pointing 
to  the  Son  said :  "This  is  my  beloved  Son.  Hear  him ;"  and  that  the 
Son,  responding  to  the  lad's  inquiry  as  to  which  of  the  many  sectarian 
creeds  were  right,  told  the  lad  that  none  of  them  was  right,  and  that 
he  should  join  none  of  them. 

We  believe  that  through  the  instrumentality  of  this  same  lad,  Joseph 
Smith,  grown  to  maturity,  the  Lord  restored  to  earth  the  true  Gospel 
and  the  priesthood  of  God  which  had  been  taken  from  the  earth  because 
of  the  transgressions  of  men. 

Hundreds  of  thousands  of  Latter-day  Saints,  living  and  dead,  have 
proclaimed  their  absolute  knowledge  of  the  truth  of  every  declaration 
I  have  made ;  some  of  them  have  sealed  their  testimonies  with  a  martyr's 
blood.  To  the  testimony  of  the  humblest  of  all  these,  I  wish  in  humility 
to  add  my  own. 

A  vocal  solo,  "The  Seer,"  was  sung  by  Harold  H.  Bennett. 
PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

FUNDAMENTAL  BELIEFS  OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST  OF 
LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

In  thinking  seriously  of  the  economic  condition  of  the  world,  I  am 
convinced  without  doubt,  that  a  revelation  in  the  book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  known  as  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  given  by  the  Lord,  the 
Creator  of  heaven  and  earth,  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  over  one 
hundred  years  ago,  would  solve  the  economic  problems  not  only  of  our 
country  but  of  every  other  country,  if  it  were  obeyed  by  the  people  of 
the  world. 

FOR  OUR  TEMPORAL  SALVATION 

This  Word  of  Wisdom  teaches  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  refrain  from 
the  use  of  tea,  coffee,  tobacco,  and  liquor,  and  part  of  it  reads  as  follows : 

To  be  sent  greeting:  not  by  commandment  or  constraint,  but  by 
revelation  and  the  word  of  wisdom,  showing  forth  the  order  and  will  of 
God  in  the  temporal  salvation  of  all  saints  in  the  last  days — ■ 

Behold,  verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  you :  In  consequence  of  evils 
and  designs  which  do  and  will  exist  in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men  in  the 
last  days,  I  have  warned  you,  and  forewarn  you,  by  giving  unto  you  this 
word  of  wisdom  by  revelation — 

And  all  saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking 
in  obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel 
and  marrow  to  their  bones ; 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


49 


And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures ; 

And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint. 
And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying  angel 
shall  pass  them  by,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them.  Amen. 

THE  CONSTITUTION  SHOULD  BE  MAINTAINED 

Another  thing  that  is  needed  is  to  maintain  the  Constitution  of  our 
country,  and  I  now  have  pleasure  in  reading  a  declaration  by  Joseph 
Smith  regarding  the  Constitution: 

The  Constitution  of  the  United  States  is  a  glorious  standard;  it  is 
founded  in  the  wisdom  of  God.  It  is  a  heavenly  banner;  it  is,  to  all 
those  who  are  privileged  with  the  sweets  of  liberty,  like  the  cooling  shades 
and  refreshing  waters  of  a  great  rock  in  a  weary  and  thirsty  land.  It 
is  like  a  great  tree  under  whose  branches  men  from  every  clime  can  be 
shielded  from  the  burning  rays  of  the  sun. 

GOVERNMENTS  AND  LAWS  IN  GENERAL 

I  read  from  a  declaration  of  belief  regarding  governments  and  laws 
in  general,  adopted  by  unanimous  vote  of  a  general  assembly  of  the 
Church  over  one  hundred  years  ago : 

We  believe  that  governments  were  instituted  of  God  for  the  benefit  of 
man ;  and  that  he  holds  men  accountable  for  their  acts  in  relation  to  them, 
both  in  making  laws  and  administering  them,  for  the  good  and  safety 
of  society. 

We  believe  that  no  government  can  exist  in  peace,  except  such  laws  are 
framed  and  held  inviolate  as  will  secure  to  each  individual  the  free 
exercise  of  conscience,  the  right  and  control  of  property,  and  the  protection 
of  life. 

We  do  not  believe  it  just  to  mingle  religious  influence  with  civil 
government,  whereby  one  religious  society  is  fostered  and  another  pro- 
scribed in  its  spiritual  privileges,  and  the  individual  rights  of  its  members, 
as  citizens,  denied. 

THE  PROPER  EXERCISE  OF  THE  PRIESTHOOD 

The  leading  officials  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  have  been  accused  of  exercising  unrighteous  dominion,  because 
of  the  priesthood  they  hold.  Joseph  Smith  was  sentenced  by  a  court 
martial  to  be  shot  the  following  morning,  and  General  Alexander  W. 
Doniphan  refused  to  carry  out  the  order  of  his  commanding  general, 
and  said  that  it  was  cold-blooded  murder.  This  frightened  the  general 
in  command  of  the  mob,  who  were  expelling  our  people  from  the  State 
of  Missouri ;  so  they  imprisoned  the  prophet  and  others  in  Liberty 
jail,  and  while  there  he  received  from  the  Lord  one  of  the  most  wonderful 
revelations  ever  given  to  our  people,  regarding  the  exercise  of  the  Priest- 
hood, and  I  have  pleasure  in  quoting  part  of  it : 

We  have  learned  by  sad  experience  that  it  is  the  nature  and  disposition 
of  almost  all  men,  as  soon  as  they  get  a  little  authority,  as  they  suppose, 
they  will  immediately  begin  to  exercise  unrighteous  dominion. 


50  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Hence  many  are  called,  but  few  are  chosen. 

No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of 
the  priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  by  gentleness  and 
meekness,  and  by  love  unfeigned ; 

By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge,  which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the 
soul  without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile- 
Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness,  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy 
Ghost;  and  then  showing  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of  love  toward 
him  whom  thou  hast  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy. 

That  he  may  know  that  thy  faithfulness  is  stronger  than  the  cords 
of  death. 

Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  toward  all  men,  and  to  the  house- 
hold of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly;  then 
shall  thy  confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God;  and  the  doctrine 
of  the  priesthood  shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven. 

The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  companion,  and  thy  scepter 
an  unchanging  scepter  of  righteousness  and  truth ;  and  thy  dominion  shall 
be  an  everlasting  dominion,  and  without  compulsory  means  it  shall  flow 
unto  thee  forever  and  ever. 

QUOTES  ARTICLES  OF  FAITH 

I  quote  the  eleventh,  twelfth,  and  thirteenth  articles  of  faith  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints : 

We  claim  the  privilege  of  worshiping  Almighty  God  according  to 
the  dictates  of  our  conscience,  and  allow  all  men  the  same  privilege,  let 
them  worship  how,  where,  or  what  they  may. 

We  believe  in  being  subject  to  kings,  presidents,  rulers,  and  magistrates, 
in  obeying,  honoring,  and  sustaining  the  law. 

We  believe  in  being  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and 
in  doing  good  to  all  men ;  indeed  we  may  say  that  we  follow  the  admonition 
of  Paul :  We  believe  all  things,  we  hope  all  things,  we  have  endured  many 
things,  and  hope  to  be  able  to  endure  all  things.  If  there  is  anything 
virtuous,  lovely,  or  of  good  report  or  praiseworthy  we  seek  after  these 
things. 

I  close  my  remarks  by  bearing  my  testimony  to  the  world  that  I  know, 
as  I  know  that  I  live,  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son,  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world,  who  came  to  the  earth  with  a  divinely  appointed 
mission  to  die  on  the  cross  for  the  sins  of  mankind.  And  I  bear  my 
testimony  that  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and 
the  living  God. 

A  duet,  "An  Angel  from  on  High,"  was  sung  by  Ida  M.  Hepworth 
and  Claudius  Doty,  the  Choir  and  congregation  joining  in  the  chorus. 

As  the  concluding  number  on  the  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast  the 
congregation  sang  the  hymn  "Doxology,"  an  invitation  having  first  been_ 
extended  by  the  announcer  to  any  of  the  radio  audience  who  cared  to 
do  so  to  join  in  the  singing  of  this  hymn. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  have  been  inspired,  as  I  am  sure  you  all  have  been  this  morning, 
in  the  privilege  we  have  enjoyed  in  these  two  broadcasts  and  the  messages 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


51 


that  have  been  delivered.  I  most  earnestly  desire  that  I  may  continue 
in  the  same  good  spirit. 

FULL  SIGNIFICANCE  OF  EVENTS  NOT  ALWAYS  REALIZED 

I  have  been  deeply  impressed  by  reason  of  recent  visits  to  some  of 
the  missions  of  the  Church  that  we  are  making  history  fast.  I  am  also 
impressed  that  we  are  often  so  close  to  great  and  important  events  we 
do  not  always  realize  their  full  significance.  I  have  been  further  im- 
pressed that  it  is  impossible  for  one  generation  to  pass  correct  judgment 
upon  men  or  measures,  for  one  generation  has  often  been  wrong,  has 
condemned  the  teachers  of  truth,  whereas  the  generations  that  have 
followed  afterwards  have  vindicated  those  who  have  been  so  condemned. 
I  have  discovered  however  in  my  study  of  the  past  that  time  is  ever 
on  the  side  of  right  and  truth,  and  the  judgment  of  time  is  always 
correct,  for  time  dethrones  error  and  falsehood,  and  time  elevates  to 
their  right  place  truth  and  the  teachers  of  truth. 

time's  vindication  of  a  courageous  man 

Let  me  give  you  a  few  instances  that  have  greatly  impressed  me. 
It  was  my  privilege  a  few  months  ago  to  stand  by  a  monument  in  Rich- 
mond, Missouri,  erected  by  the  State  of  Missouri  to  this  distinguished 
gentleman  to  whom  President  Grant  has  referred — Colonel  Alexander 
William  Doniphan.  It  is  true  that  an  official  of  the  State  of  Missouri, 
acting  undoubtedly  under  the  instruction  of  the  Governor  of  that  State, 
issued  an  order  for  the  execution  of  the  Mormon  prophet,  and  it  is  also 
true  that  General  Doniphan  defied  his  superior  officer  and  refused  to 
execute  the  order,  saying  that  it  would  be  nothing  short  of  cold-blooded 
murder,  and  that  if  anyone  else  undertook  to  execute  that  order  he 
would  be  a  witness  against  him  in  the  courts  of  justice. 

I  have  searched  the  records  and  fail  to  find  that  General  Doniphan 
was  ever  court-martialed  for  defying  his  superior.  He  espoused  the 
cause  of  justice,  and  time  has  vindicated  him,  for  the  State  of  Missouri 
whom  he  defied  has  erected  on  the  public  square  at  Richmond  a  mag- 
nificent monument  to  General  Doniphan,  and  upon  it  are  written  these 
words : 

Colonel  Alexander  William  Doniphan  was  of  immense  stature,  noble 
appearance,  brilliant  parts,  fearless,  of  great  moral  courage,  sanguine, 
faithful,  just,  poetic  in  temperament,  a  champion  of  the  downtrodden, 
eloquent  beyond  description,  and  without  doubt  entitled  to  be  classed 
among  the  great  orators  and  lawyers  that  ever  lived. 

Time  vindicated  him. 

time's  judgment  upon  another 

What  did  it  do  to  the  man  whom  he  opposed,  who  inspired  this 
persecution  and  who  ultimately  signed  the  exterminating  order  that 
drove  the  entire  membership  of  the  Church  in  the  State  of  Missouri 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


out  of  the  State  itself  ?  You  will  find  a  marker  erected  over  the  grave  of 
Lilburn  W.  Boggs,  the  man  who  lifted  his  hand  against  the  Prophet 
and  who  drove  the  Church  from  the  State  of  Missouri.  It  is  erected  in 
the  little  village  of  Napa,  California,  on  an  ill-kept  and  almost  forgotten 
grave.  In  a  small  cemetery  near  the  town  of  Napa,  some  forty-three 
miles  north  of  Oakland,  lie  the  remains  of  the  Governor  of  Missouri 
who  declared  that  the  Mormons  would  perish  on  the  plains,  and  naught 
but  their  bleaching  bones  would  remain.  He  also  in  his  exterminating 
order  said :  "The  Mormons  must  be  treated  as  enemies  and  must  be 
exterminated  and  driven  from  the  State,  if  necessary,  for  the  public 
good."  And  time  has  passed  judgment  upon  him,  has  relegated  him  into 
an  almost  unknown  grave,  and  no  honor  or  glory  is  attached  to  his  name. 

THE  CASE  OF  STEPHEN  A.  DOUGLAS 

I  visited  Springfield  on  a  recent  trip  through  the  Northern  States 
mission  with  President  Bryant  S.  Hinckley,  and  was  reminded  again 
of  the  action  of  two  of  Illinois'  famous  sons.  One  of  them  while  a 
candidate  for  the  presidency  of  the  United  States  was  asked  what  he 
would  do  with  the  Mormon  problem — for  it  was  just  at  that  time  that 
the  runaway  judges  from  Utah  had  circulated  their  falsehoods  and 
had  stirred  up  prejudice  against  our  people,  which  ultimately  brought 
Johnston's  army  to  Utah — and  Stephen  A.  Douglas,  the  little  giant  of 
Illinois,  said  that  if  he  became  President  of  the  United  States  he  would 
"apply  the  knife  to  this  pestiferous  cancer  on  the  body  politic  and  cut 
it  out  to  the  very  roots,  and  sear  it  over  with  a  red-hot  iron." 

He  was  reminded,  when  his  speech  reached  Salt  Lake  City,  of  a 
conversation  he  had  with  Joseph  Smith  when  Douglas  was  an  almost 
unknown  country  lawyer,  in  which  the  Prophet  told  him  that  the  time 
would  come  when  he  (Douglas)  would  be  a  candidate  for  the  presidency 
of  the  United  States,  and  he  warned  him  that  if  at  that  time  he  lifted 
his  hand  against  Joseph  Smith  or  his  people  he  would  feel  the  hand  of 
Almighty  God;  and  he  was  warned  to  beware  lest  the  judgments  be 
fulfilled  upon  his  head.  But  he  did  not  desist.  He  went  on  in  his  own 
self-laid  course  to  defeat,  failing  utterly.  Though  his  own  party's  candi- 
date for  the  presidency  in  the  previous  election  had  been  eminently 
successful,  Douglas  was  a  miserable  failure,  and  within  a  year  died 
at  the  very  prime  of  his  life,  a  broken-hearted,  disappointed  man. 

I  have  failed  to  find  in  my  search  a  conspicuous  monument  erected 
to  Stephen  A.  Douglas.    Time  dealt  with  him. 

LINCOLN  AND  THE  MORMON  QUESTION 

His  opponent  was  that  wise,  judicious,  great  patriot,  Abraham 
Lincoln,  who  when  asked  "What  would  you  do  with  this  Mormon 
problem  ?"  is  reported  to  have  said :  "When  I  find  in  the  field  a  tough 
stump,  instead  of  spending  my  time  trying  to  remove  it,  I  usually  plow 
around  it.   That  is  what  I  will  do  with  the  Mormon  problem.    I  will 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


53 


just  plow  around  it."  He  went  to  victory,  to  honor,  to  fulfil  his  mission, 
and  not  only  the  State  of  Illinois,  but  the  nation  itself  has  erected  to 
the  great  Lincoln  the  finest  monument  ever  built  to  mortal  man. 

TIME  A  FRIEND  TO  TRUTH,  AN  ENEMY  TO  FALSEHOOD 

If  there  were  time  sufficient  I  could  tell  you  the  story  of  others, 
not  only  from  among  those  outside  the  Church,  but  those  who  apostatized 
and  left  it  and  lifted  their  hands  against  it.  Not  one  of  them  has  won 
honor  and  glory  through  his  efforts,  but  time  has  leveled  him  to  his 
proper  place.  I  could  tell  you  the  story  of  countless  thousands  of  humble 
men  who  lent  their  hands  to  the  building  of  this,  God's  work,  and  have 
been  lifted  up  beyond  the  plane  on  which  they  and  their  ancestors  have 
traveled  for  generations,  to  a  place  of  power  and  influence  and  intelli- 
gence and  understanding  that  the  generations  before  them  never  knew. 

This  is  true  today  as  it  was  when  uttered  long  ago,  that  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  is  a  savor  of  life  unto  life  to  all  those  who  sub- 
scribe to  it,  and  death  unto  death  to  all  those  who  oppose  it.  If, 
therefore,  the  testimony  of  Joseph  Smith  and  the  testimony  of  his  suc- 
cessors had  not  been  the  truth,  it  would  have  been  discovered  before 
now,  for  time  is  moving  more  rapidly  than  ever  before  to  pass  its 
judgment  upon  men — for  we  live  in  the  age  of  the  greatest  light  and 
learning  and  knowledge  the  world  has  ever  known,  and  error  is  detected 
much  easier  and  more  quickly  than  ever  before.  If  these  declarations 
that  we  make  were  not  true,  time  would  have  dissolved  this  church,  and 
it  would  have  passed  away  before  this  day.  Time  is  vindicating  misun- 
derstood men ;  time  is  vindicating  their  teachings  and  supporting  them. 
And  that  the  life  and  practices  of  the  people  who  subscribe  to  these 
teachings  are  rising  and  shining  in  such  a  way  that  they  attract  the 
attention  of  the  world  elsewhere  makes  my  heart  rejoice. 

THE  COURSE  WE  SHOULD  FOLLOW 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  in  the  light  of  all  this,  what  shall  our 
course  be  from  here  on  ?  There  is  a  time  in  the  life  of  every  man,  and 
nation,  when  we  stand  at  the  crossroads.  We  are  today,  many  of  us, 
uncertain  where  to  go  and  what  to  do.  My  plea  to  every  Latter-day 
Saint  is :  If  you  do  not  know  it,  get  a  knowledge  and  testimony  in  your 
heart  that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  Joseph  Smith 
is  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living  God.  There  is  ample  evidence 
to  satisfy  any  honest  investigator;  no  one  needs  to  say  it  cannot  be 
demonstrated  nor  discovered.  And  then  I  plead  with  you  to  have  pa- 
tience with  your  problems  whatever  they  are,  economic  or  otherwise; 
be  patient  and  be  faithful,  don't  be  swept  off  your  feet  by  every  wind 
of  doctrine  that  would  lead  you  hither  and  thither.  Don't  imagine  that 
the  schemes  of  men  that  hope  and  seek  to  solve  the  economic  problems 
of  the  world  are  a  substitute  for  that  which  God  has  given,  for  that 
which  he  has  given  this  Church  will  stand  when  all  the  theories  and 
schemes  of  men  will  fail. 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THE  PATH  TO  GLORY  AND  EXALTATION 

I  know  as  I  know  that  I  live  that  God  is  still  with  this  work ;  that 
it  is  the  truth ;  that  the  light  is  in  the  ship ;  that  the  pilot  is  not  asleep. 
The  dogs  have  barked,  but  the  caravan,  the  Church  of  the  living  God, 
has  gone  forward  in  the  past  as  it  shall  go  in  the  future  grandly  on 
to  its  destiny.  God  help  us  to  stay  on  the  ship ;  God  help  us  to  do  our 
part  and  to  keep  from  everything  that  would  lead  us  from  the  main 
path,  which  if  we  continue  to  travel  in  shall  bring  us  to  glory  and 
exaltation,  and  make  the  ends  of  the  earth  come  to  learn  of  your  ways 
and  walk  in  your  paths,  for  time's  testimony  and  judgment  having  been 
pronounced  upon  this  Church  approves  it,  applauds  it,  and  it  shall 
stand.  God  help  us  to  stay  with  it,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  ELIAS  S.  WOODRUFF 

President  of  the  Central  States  Mission 

I  hope  to  be  able  to  bring  to  you  a  brief  report  of  some  of  the  things 
that  are  occurring  in  the  Central  States  mission.  I  am  sure  they  will  be 
interesting  at  least  to  the  parents  of  the  missionaries  who  are  laboring 
there. 

We  are  in  the  center  place  of  Zion — a  land  that  was  dedicated  by  the 
servants  of  the  Lord  for  the  gathering  of  his  people  and  from  which  the 
word  of  the  Lord  should  go  forth  to  all  the  earth.  However,  in  the 
process  of  time  and  because  the  people  were  not  able  to  live  up  to  their 
responsibilities,  the  Lord  decreed  that  his  word  should  go  forth  from 
some  other  place.  Today  it  is  going  forth  from  this  place.  Nevertheless, 
in  one  sense,  the  word  of  the  Lord  is  also  going  forth  from  the  very 
center  place  of  Zion  in  that  literally  millions  of  tracts  and  pamphlets 
are  being  sent  from  the  Zion  Printing  Company  to  missions  all  over 
the  world. 

The  thought  that  I  want  to  express,  if  I  can,  the  Lord  helping 
me,  is  this  :  That  the  great  and  marvelous  work  in  which  we  are  engaged, 
and  which  is  characteristic  of  every  mission  of  the  Church  and  is  not 
peculiar  to  any  one  mission,  is  the  work  of  the  Lord — and  not  of  man. 
He  indicated  many  years  before  he  came  in  the  flesh  that  in  the  latter 
days  there  should  go  forth  a  book,  and  that  in  that  time  he  would  perform 
a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder,  because  the  wisdom  of  wise  men  should 
perish,  and  the  understanding  of  prudent  men  should  be  hidden ;  but 
the  Lord  himself  should  be  exalted. 

I  mention  this  because  I  have  great  comfort  in  the  thought  that 
even  as  great  as  our  responsibility  is  in  our  mission,  as  in  all  the  missions, 
we  are  not  depending  upon  our  own  wisdom  or  our  own  strength  to 
accomplish  the  work  to  which  we  have  been  called.  I  believe  the  parents 
of  the  missionaries  will  be  comforted  in  the  thought  that  their  sons 
and  daughters  who  have  given  themselves  to  the  ministry  of  the  Church 


ELDER  ELI  AS  S.  WOODRUFF 


55 


go  out  under  his  inspiration  and  his  protecting  care.  There  are  so  many 
instances  that  indicate  that  God  overrules  all  things  for  their  blessing 
and  benefit  that  might  be  related,  but  time  will  not  permit. 

Here  is  an  interesting  experience:  One  of  our  missionaries,  Elder 
Howard  Wardle,  broadcasting  from  a  radio  station  in  a  small  town  in 
Arkansas,  left  his  program  after  it  was  finished,  picked  up  his  grip 
and  started  for  his  next  destination.  Coming  out  on  the  main  highway, 
he  was  invited  by  a  gentleman  passing  by  to  ride  in  his  automobile. 
As  soon  as  he  took  his  seat  in  the  automobile,  the  man  said:  "I  have 
just  enjoyed  a  very  interesting  experience.  I  have  a  radio  in  my  car 
and  I  have  listened  to  a  broadcast  by  a  young  Mormon  elder.  It  was 
one  of  the  finest  and  most  delightful  programs  I  have  ever  listened 
to."  And  the  missionary  replied,  "Well,  I  am  the  one  who  did  the 
broadcasting." 

You  can  imagine  the  pleasure  they  had  in  the  conversation  that 
ensued.  The  Lord  does  bring  about  some  very  unique  things  which 
indicate  that  his  power  and  his  blessing  are  over  his  people. 

May  I  say  just  a  word  about  a  remarkable  incident  "pertaining  to 
the  Book  of  Mormon.    This,  I  think,  is  typical  of  many. 

Recently  in  one  of  our  small  Sunday  Schools,  a  little  boy  whose 
mother  was  not  a  member  of  the  Church  came  to  enjoy  the  school.  When 
he  returned  home  he  looked  up  into  the  face  of  his  mother  and  asked : 
"Mother,  who  is  Jesus  Christ  ?"  His  mother  was  astonished  and  thought 
to  herself,  "Is  it  possible  that  I  have  never  told  my  little  boy  who  Jesus 
Christ  is?" 

She  asked :  "Where  did  you  hear  about  him  ?" 

"At  the  Mormon  Sunday  School,"  he  replied. 

She  decided  she  would  go  to  the  Sunday  School.  During  the  course 
of  the  exercises  she  heard  something  about  the  Book  of  Mormon.  She 
asked  the  elders,  "What  is  this  book?"  and  they  told  her. 

"Do  you  allow  people  to  read  it  ?" 

"Yes,  indeed,  we  welcome  them  to  read  it.  Would  you  like  to 
borrow  one?" 

"Oh,  I  would  like  to,"  she  said. 

She  took  the  book  home,  read  it  and  came  back  with  this  testimony : 
"I  have  never  been  able  to  understand  the  Bible  and,  therefore,  have 
never  been  particularly  interested  in  religion,  but  after  reading  the  Book 
of  Mormon  carefully  and  prayerfully,  I  find  that  I  understand  the 
Bible." 

I  have  heard  that  testimony  offered,  in  many  forms,  many  times 
by  different  people — and  so,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  this  thought 
to  suggest  to  you:  Read  the  Book  of  Mormon.  You  will  enjoy  the 
Bible  more  if  you  do.  Let  your  neighbors  read  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  they  will  love  the  word  of  God. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you.  He  is  greatly  blessing  us  in  the  Central 
States  mission.  We  are  grateful  for  his  watchful  and  protecting  care, 
and  we  bear  our  testimonies  with  gratitude  that  we  know  this  Church 
is  the  true  Church  of  God  and  that  the  men  who  preside  over  it  are 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


his  inspired  servants  and  that  we  are,  indeed,  true  messengers  of  his 
Church. 

God  bless  you.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  was  playing  golf  with  the  son  of  the  late  Governor  of  the  State 
of  Missouri,  Mr.  Crittendon,  and  he  gave  me  a  pamphlet  in  which  he 
marked  the  record  of  a  certain  battlefield  near  Kansas  City,  and  he 
said  to  me:  "Mr.  Grant,  it  might  interest  you  to  know  that  you  are 
playing  on  your  own  property;  the  title  to  this  golf  links  is  in  the 
Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Mormon  Church." 

TITLE  BY  ADVERSE  POSSESSION 

I  was  in  Kansas  City  at  the  time  for  the  purpose  of  delivering 
a  lecture  before  the  Chamber  of  Commerce,  and  in  my  remarks  I  quoted 
the  Articles  of  Faith  of  the  Church,  and  I  announced  that  I  held  the 
title — or  at  least  the  Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Mormon  Church  did — to 
a  little  more  than  one-half  the  entire  city  of  Kansas  City,  but  lo  and 
behold,  I  could  not  get  any  of  that  property  because  there  is  a  law  to 
the  effect  that  adverse  possession  gives  title  to  the  person  having  such 
possession.  But  they  cannot  get  a  good  abstract,  as  the  title  traces  back 
to  the  name  of  Edward  Partridge,  Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Mormon 
Church. 

Some  day,  perhaps,  Uncle  Sam,  seeing  that  we  paid  our  money 
for  that  land,  may  give  us  our  money  back,  but  I  doubt  it. 

The  Choir  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "God  Moves  in  a 
Mysterious  Way,"  after  which  the  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
George  F.  Whitehead,  President  of  the  St.  George  Temple. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  2  o'clock  p.  m., 
Sunday,  April  5. 

As  was  the  case  at  the  previous  session,  the  Tabernacle  auditorium 
and  galleries  were  crowded  to  capacity,  and  thousands  of  people  con- 
gregated in  the  Assembly  Hall  to  the  south  of  the  Tabernacle,  and  on 
the  Temple  Block,  where  they  listened  to  the  Conference  proceedings 
as  they  were  broadcast  from  the  Tabernacle. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  direction  of  J  .  Spencer  Cornwall, 
conductor,  furnished  the  music  for  this  session. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.   GRANT  57 

The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in  the  singing  of  the  hymn, 
"Come,  Come,  ye  Saints." 

Elder  David  H.  Cannon,  President  of  the  Hollywood  Stake,  of- 
fered the  invocation. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  have  received  the  following  telegrams: 

"Des  Moines,  Iowa. 
Saints  here  enjoyed  perfect  reception  of  wonderful  message  in 
broadcast. 

Mark  Petersen." 

(A  member  of  the  Board  of  the  Gene- 
logical  Society  of  Utah.) 

"New  York  City. 
Stirring  broadcast,  unusual  clarity,  excellent  quality.  Congrega- 
tion listened  in  Manhattan  Chapel. 

Roscoe  A.  Grover." 

An  anthem,  "The  Lord  is  my  Refuge,"  was  sung  by  the  Choir. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Be  of  good  courage,  and  he  shall  strengthen  your  heart,  all  ye  that 
hope  in  the  Lord.  (Psalms  31:24.) 

A  FAR-REACHING  BROADCAST 

Before  commenting  upon  the  admonition  expressed  in  this  text,  I 
desire  to  make  brief  reference  to  the  Church-of-the-Air  program  ren- 
dered this  morning. 

The  first  time  that  it  was  my  privilege  to  stand  on  the  brink  of  the 
Grand  Canyon  of  the  Colorado,  I  was  overwhelmed  with  a  sense  that  I 
was  not  comprehending  the  magnitude  of  that  great  gorge.  I  had  learned 
that  it  was  over  a  mile  down  to  what  appeared  to  be  a  little  winding- 
stream,  the  mighty  Colorado,  and  that  the  opposite  wall  was  said  to  be 
13  miles  away,  but  I  could  not  comprehend  the  majesty  and  sublimity 
of  that  mighty  chasm.  I  think  I  had  a  similar  feeling  this  morning 
when  I  saw  over  10,000  people  participate  in  the  Church  of  the  Air. 
I  tried  to  visualize  the  potential  audience  that  listened  to  your  congre- 
gational singing,  for  there  were  probably  ten  million  people  in  that 
potential  audience.  I  am  sure  I  cannot  comprehend  the  significance 
of  that  great  service.  One  thing  though  is  clearly  defined  in  my  mind, 
and  that  is  this :  That  we  have  greater  responsibility  than  ever  to  learn 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  to  live  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  have  greater  tasks  before 
us.  The  final  work  is  not  all  done  yet.  You  and  I  have  the  responsi- 
bility of  taking  advantage  of  these  new  and  great  opportunities  to  preach 
the  Gospel,  of  making  real  new  visions,  and  of  bringing  into  the  lives  of 
Latter-day  Saints  and  members  of  the  world  more  blessed  opportunities 
to  know  the  way  of  truth. 

COURAGE  GIVES  STRENGTH 

We  need  courage  to  enter  into  those  new  realms ;  we  need  courage 
to  meet  our  present  situations  and  conditions,  and  that  is  why  I  have 
chosen  the  text,  "Be  of  good  courage,  and  he  shall  strengthen  your  heart, 
all  ye  that  hope  in  the  Lord." 

In  this  promise  are  two  principles  that  should  be  cherished  by  every 
truly  religious  man— faith  and  courage.  What  is  implied  in  this  text? 
We  know  with  assurance  that  the  Lord  is  keeping  faith  with  his  people ; 
therefore,  let  none  despair,  but  take  courage  and  their  hope  shall  not  be 
in  vain.  Faith  in  God,  trust,  confidence  in  our  fellowmen,  the  courage 
of  our  convictions,  will  enable  us  eventually  to  achieve  any  righteous 
cause.  Courage  is  that  quality  of  the  mind  which  meets  danger  or  oppo- 
sition with  calmness  and  firmness,  which  enables  a  man  to  face  difficulties 
that  lie  in  his  pathway  to  righteous  achievement.  It  is  different  from 
fortitude.  Fortitude  enables  us  to  bear,  endure ;  fortitude  is  more  of  a 
feminine  quality.  Courage  implies  facing  difficulties  and  overcoming 
them.  He  who  is  or  should  be  the  guide  of  our  lives  was  the  most 
courageous  of  all  men.  "In  Jesus  we  find  bravery  at  the  best ;  courage 
at  its  loftiest ;  heroism  at  its  climax."  True  heroism  defends  the  right 
and  faces  disaster  without  cringing.  In  this  regard  the  Savior  was 
the  personification  of  true  courage  and  heroism.  Illustrative  of  this 
I  need  only  mention  the  cleansing  of  the  temple ;  or  his  fearlessly 
speaking  the  truth  when  his  home  folk  turned  him  from  Nazareth ; 
or  when  the  five  thousand  in  Capernaum  was  reduced  to  only  twelve  to 
whom  he  turned  and  said,  "Will  ye  also  go  away?"  Never  once,  how- 
ever, did  the  Master  despair  or  turn  from  his  destined  course.  This 
is  the  kind  of  courage  we  need  in  the  world  today 

A  CRITICAL  PERIOD 

During  the  last  few  years  practically  all  the  world  has  been  passing 
through  a  critical  period  of  depression.  People  in  this  intermountain 
region  have  been  hit,  in  some  respects,  more  severely  than  others.  Mining, 
farming,  and  stock-raising  are  our  principal  industries.  When  the  mines 
closed,  many  men  were  thrown  out  of  employment.  When  the  springs 
and  rivers  dried,  products  of  farms  shriveled  and  died.  Price  of  cattle 
dropped  below  the  cost  of  raising  them.  As  a  result  many  people  are 
worried  and  disheartened.  They  have  lost  not  only  their  farms  or 
business  interests,  but  their  homes.  Day  by  day  men  have  vainly 
searched  for  honest  work.   After  fruitless  searching  and  inquiry,  they 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


59 


return  home  almost  with  bitterness  in  their  hearts.  Wives  with  a  forti- 
tude sublime  encourage  their  husbands  even  though  it  is  more  difficult 
for  wives  to  struggle  continually  to  keep  up  appearances,  and  to  supply 
food  and  nourishment  for  their  children.  It  is  embarrassing  to  such 
men  and  women,  accustomed  to  independence,  comfortable  living  and 
even  opulence,  to  accept  help  either  from  the  government  or  the  church. 
What,  then,  shall  we  do? 

A  RETURN  TO  THE  FARM  ADVISED 

With  resolute  hearts,  with  courage  to  meet  disaster  with  a  smile, 
let  us  accept  conditions  as  they  are,  rebuild,  and  with  united  effort  regain 
financial  and  economic  independence.  A  recent  survey  of  the  conditions 
in  the  Church  indicates  that  3,200  farms  have  been  abandoned  within 
the  last  few  years.  That  means  that  thousands  of  people  have  been 
deprived  of  that  source  of  income  and  sustenance.  With  promise  of 
ample  water  for  the  coming  year,  let  us  go  back  to  these  farms,  retill 
them,  and  at  least  produce  sufficient  for  our  own  needs.  I  know  what 
some  of  you  are  thinking — that  you  cannot  make  farms  pay,  that  you 
left  them  because  you  got  only  4c  a  gallon  for  your  milk,  50c  a  hundred 
for  your  potatoes,  60c  a  hundred  for  your  wheat,  and  so  on  to  a  discour- 
aging limit. 

Well  we  cannot  go  on  this  way  always.  Dr.  Widtsoe  expressed 
a  profound  truth  last  night  in  the  Priesthood  meeting  when  he  said, 
"No  country  can  prosper  unless  the  men  who  till  the  soil  succeed."  I 
do  not  know  of  anything  else  that  we  can  do.  We  haven't  sufficient 
factories  to  employ  people  who  are  out  of  work,  the  mines  are  not  running 
to  capacity.  We  can  go  back  and  with  help  to  buy  a  few  cattle  and 
some  horses,  we  can  retill  our  farms.  Here  in  this  intermountain  country 
we  have  a  great  obligation.  The  eyes  of  the  world  are  turned  toward 
us,  not  only  because  of  the  message  we  have,  but  because  there  are  scenic 
wonders  here  which  attract  men  from  far  and  near.  When  they  drive 
past  our  farms  and  our  houses,  they  should  see  the  houses  painted, 
the  farms  properly  tilled  and  the  weeds  along  the  road  cut.  In  this  we 
have  a  bounden  duty  that  travelers  might  see  evidence  of  neatness,  thrift 
and  industry,  fundamental  principles  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  In  these 
efforts  toward  rehabilitation  all  must  cooperate.  Let  the  amount  of 
money  that  is  being  given  as  a  dole  apply  on  the  purchase  of  a  team, 
a  cow,  chickens  or  implements,  and  thus  enable  men  and  women 
to  get  back  to  a  life  of  independence.  Here  is  one  field  of  endeavor 
in  which  I  think  our  hearts  need  strengthening,  and  in  which  we  can 
manifest  that  courage  and  quality  of  mind  which  will  enable  us  to  meet 
difficulties  that  are  ahead. 

FAITHFULNESS  TO  DUTY 

Another  way  in  which  we  can  manifest  true  courage,  and  thus 
bring  the  blessing  of  God  upon  us,  is  in  the  faithful  performance  of 
duty.  This  is  one  of  the  best  ways  for  a  Latter-day  Saint  to  keep  his  soul 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


sweet.  No  matter  where,  let  him  perform  his  duty  honestly,  consci- 
entiously. 

Do  your  duty,  that  is  best, 
Leave  unto  the  Lord  the  rest. 

STEADYING  THE  ARK 

In  so  doing,  let  us  not  interfere  with  another  who  is  doing  something 
in  a  different  place.  It  is  a  little  dangerous  for  us  to  go  out  of  our  own 
sphere  and  try  unauthoritatively  to  direct  the  efforts  of  a  brother.  You 
remember  the  case  of  Uzzah  who  stretched  forth  his  hand  to  steady  the 
ark.  He  seemed  justified  when  the  oxen  stumbled  in  putting  forth  his 
hand  to  steady  that  symbol  of  the  covenant.  We  today  think  his  punish- 
ment was  very  severe.  Be  that  as  it  may,  the  incident  conveys  a  lesson 
of  life.  Let  us  look  around  us  and  see  how  quickly  men  who  attempt 
unauthoritatively  to  steady  the  ark  die  spiritually.  Their  souls  become 
embittered,  their  minds  distorted,  their  judgment  faulty,  and  their  spirit 
depressed.  Such  is  the  pitiable  condition  of  men  who,  neglecting  their 
own  responsibilities,  spend  their  time  in  finding  fault  with  others.  The 
truly  courageous  heart  will  say: 

Let  me  but  do  my  work  from  day  to  day, 
In  field  or  forest,  at  the  desk  or  loom ; 
In  roaring  market  place  or  tranquil  room  ; 
Let  me  but  find  it  in  my  heart  to  say. 
When  vagrant  wishes  beckon  me  astray, 
"This  is  my  work ;  my  blessing,  not  my  doom. 
Of  all  who  live,  I  am  the  one  by  whom 
This  work  can  best  be  done  in  the  right  way." 
Then  shall  I  see  it  not  too  great  nor  small, 
To  suit  my  spirit  and  to  prove  my  powers ; 
Then  shall  I  cheerful  greet  the  laboring  hours, 
And  cheerful  turn  when  the  long  shadows  fall 
At  eventide,  to  play  and  love  and  rest, 
Because  I  know  for  me  my  work  is  best. 

I  am  referring  to  the  work  in  the  Church,  not  one  member  of  which 
who  hasn't  something  to  do  even  though  it  be  only  to  attend  to  his 
quorum,  auxiliary,  and  sacrament  meetings.  Whatever  the  duty  let  us 
do  it  faithfully  and  well. 

MAINTAINING  IDEALS 

Courage  to  maintain  our  ideals  is  another  field  in  which  we  can 
manifest  courage,  and  merit  the  approval  of  God  in  whom  we  trust. 
These  are  times  when  men  should  keep  their  heads,  and  not  be  swept 
from  their  moorings  by  every  will-o'-the-wisp  theory  that  is  offered  as 
a  panacea  of  our  present  ills.  The  times  call  for  courageous  youth 
to  hold  aloft  the  moral  standard.  In  that  field  we  can  find  the  truest 
moral  courage.  It  is  said  that  heroism  is  concentrated  courage.  Well 
our  greatest  heroes  are  not  always  found  on  the  battle  field.  I  think  we 
find  them  also  among  our  youth.   Young  men  and  young  women  who, 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


61 


when  put  in  social  groups,  will  stand  up  fearlessly  and  denounce  those 
things  which  we  know  sap  the  character,  the  very  life  energy  of  youth. 
"Never  was  there  a  time  in  the  history  of  the  world,"  says  Mark  Hop- 
kins, "when  moral  heroes  were  more  needed.  The  world  waits  for  such. 
The  providence  of  God  has  commanded  science  to  labor  and  prepare  the 
way  for  such.  For  them  she  is  laying  her  iron  tracks,  and  stretching  her 
wires,  and  bridging  the  oceans.  But  where  are  they  ?  Who  shall  breathe 
into  our  civil  and  political  relations  the  breath  of  a  higher  life  ?"  "The 
most  important  thing  in  the  world,"  says  a  great  scientist,  "is  not  the 
discovery  of  Galileo,  Faraday,  and  others,  but  a  belief  in  the  reality  of 
moral  and  spiritual  values."  I  appeal  to  youth  to  be  courageous  in 
maintaining  the  moral  and  spiritual  values  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
After  all,  "What  is  a  man  profited,  if  he  shall  gain  the  whole  world,  and 
lose  his  own  soul  ?  or  what  shall  a  man  give  in  exchange  for  his  soul  ?" 

COURAGE  IN  FACING  DIFFICULTIES 

With  faith  in  an  over-ruling  power,  in  the  personal,  intimate  pro- 
tection of  our  Father — and  we  like  to  consider  him  such,  a  loving 
Father — let  us  face  our  difficulties  with  courage. 

We  are  not  here  to  play,  to  dream,  to  drift, 
We  have  hard  work  to  do,  and  loads  to  lift, 
Shun  not  the  struggle;  face  it. 
'Tis  God's  gift. 

Say  not  the  days  are  evil — who's  to  blame? 
And  fold  the  hands  and  acquiesce — 
O  shame ! 

Stand  up,  speak  out,  and  bravely,  in  God's  name ! 
Be  Strong! 

It  matters  not  how  deep  entrenched  the  wrong, 
How  hard  the  battle  goes,  the  day,  how  long. 
Faint  not,  fight  on !  Tomorrow 
Comes  the  song. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  "be  of  good  courage,  and  he  will  strengthen 
your  heart,  all  ye  that  hope  in  the  Lord."  God  give  us  power  so  to  do, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  stand  before  you  again,  requesting  that 
while  I  am  before  you  I  may  have  your  faith  and  your  prayers  in  my 
behalf,  that  I  may  be  able  to  say  something  which  shall  be  encouraging 
and  comforting. 

I  hope  the  choir  will  pardon  me  if  I  again  tell  them  how  much  I  have 
enjoyed  their  music ;  likewise  the  wonderful  choir  from  Hyrum  yesterday. 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


AN  IMPORTANT  LESSON  EXEMPLIFIED 

It  seems  to  me  I  see  improvement  from  time  to  time  in  the  work 
of  our  own  choir.  I  think  I  have  never  heard  a  better  chorus,  to  my 
untrained  ear,  than  they  gave  us  this  morning  in :  "Say  Watchman,  What 
of  the  Night?" 

I  look  at  the  choir  as  the  Tabernacle  Choir  mission,  and  I  enjoy 
meeting  with  them  on  these  occasions  semi-annually.  The  concerts  which 
they  give  Sunday  mornings,  the  broadcasts,  are  a  real  lesson  to  the 
whole  Church,  a  lesson  in  precision,  in  punctuality,  in  devotion,  a  lesson 
in  achievement.  With  them  there  can  be  no  such  false  doctrine  as, 
"Well,  this  isn't  so  very  good,  but  it  will  do." 

The  only  way  in  which  any  of  us  can  live  in  accordance  with  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord  and  do  our  duty  as  it  should  be  done  is  this : 
Every  task  that  comes  to  us,  no  matter  how  little  or  how  great  it  may 
seem  to  be,  calls  for — demands — the  best  effort  which  it  is  possible  for 
us  to  exert.  Every  one,  no  matter  who  he  may  be,  who  works  on  the 
theory  that  there  are  some  things  in  life  that  are  not  worth  his  best 
effort,  and  who  accordingly  slights  his  work,  will  never  be  truly  suc- 
cessful. So  this  choir  gives  to  us  a  great  lesson — to  the  Church,  and  to 
every  other  mission  of  the  Church. 

Christ's  message  a  spiritual  one 

Today  is  the  conventional  anniversary  of  the  day  on  which  the 
Savior,  beginning  the  last  week  of  his  mortal  life,  entered  Jerusalem  and 
was  proclaimed  king  of  the  Jews.    This  is  Palm  Sunday. 

When  the  Savior  came  in  through  the  gates  of  Jerusalem  and  moved 
on,  on  the  lowly  ass,  to  the  temple,  people  looked  to  him  and  expected 
from  him  an  announcement  that  he  was  the  promised  king  for  whom 
the  Jews  were  looking.  They  expected  him  to  proclaim  himself  a 
political  power.  I  assume  they  did  not  know  that  more  than  three  years 
before  this  time  Satan  himself  had  taken  Christ  upon  the  high  mountain 
and  had  offered  to  him  the  kingdoms  of  the  world  if  he  would  bow 
down  and  worship  Satan,  and  that  the  Savior  pushed  this  crown  aside. 
The  Jews,  groaning  under  oppression,  smarting  under  political  suppres- 
sion, thought  that  he  came  to  give  them  a  political  life. 

But  such  was  not  his  mission.  And  as  the  week  wore  away  and 
he  finished  his  earthly  mission,  there  came  unto  the  multitudes  of  Jeru- 
salem a  feeling  that  they  had  been  disappointed,  perhaps  misled.  The 
Savior's  entire  mission — read  it,  brothers  and  sisters,  with  care — was 
devoted  to  the  spiritual  side  of  life  and  to  the  relieving  of  human 
suffering,  physical  and  mental.  Only  on  three  occasions  did  the  Savior 
ever  furnish  food :  once  to  the  multitude  of  five  thousand ;  a  very  short 
time  thereafter  to  the  multitude  of  four  thousand ;  and  lastly,  after  his 
resurrection  he  fed  the  Apostles  on  the  shore  of  the  Sea  of  Galilee. 
His  message,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  is  a  spiritual  message.  It  is  a 
message  for  the  relief  of  human  suffering,  for  the  comfort,  the  consola- 
tion, and  the  exaltation  of  the  human  soul. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  63 


COMFORT  IN  DISTRESS  THROUGH  SPIRITUAL  ENRICHMENT 

And  that  message,  as  Isaiah  said,  is  so  simple  that  "the  wayfaring 
men,  though  fools,  shall  not  err  therein."  It  is  so  simple,  so  easy  to 
understand,  that  the  poorest  of  us  may  have  a  complete  comprehension 
of  all  that  is  necessary  for  our  spiritual  welfare. 

It  is  in  this  message,  and  from  the  Savior  himself,  that  we  are  to 
get  comfort  and  consolation  in  these  times  of  stress.  If  we  who  are 
spiritually  poor  were  given  of  the  abundance  of  life,  we  still,  in  these 
times,  should  be  dissatisfied,  because  greed  would  still  gnaw  at  our 
hearts.  We  should  still  be  seeking  after  the  things  of  the  world.  We 
should  still  be  ambitious  and  thirsting  for  power;  and  wherever  those 
base  qualities  enter  into  the  minds  and  the  hearts  of  men,  they  bring 
grief  and  sorrow.  They  do  not  ennoble ;  they  do  not  bring  satisfaction 
and  contentment;  nor  do  they  bring  to  us  joy. 

SEEK  AFTER  THE  ERRING  ONES 

There  are  among  us,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  men  and  women 
who  have  become  discouraged,  men  and  women  who  are  straying 
away  from  the  paths  of  truth.  They  need  your  help  and  mine. 
We  may  not  simply  sit  idle  and  say:  "Here  are  the  principles, 
take  them  or  leave  them."  It  is  the  duty  of  each  and  every  one  of  us, 
wherever  we  find  the  brother  or  the  sister  wandering  aside  from  the 
straight  and  the  narrow  road,  to  go  to  that  brother  and  that  sister,  and  in 
humility,  unselfishness,  and  righteousness  try  to  bring  him  or  her  back 
into  the  fold. 

There  are  a  number  of  heresies  which  today  are  abroad  in  the  land. 
Mind  they  do  not  mislead  you.  When  I  say  heresies,  I  am  speaking  of 
heresies  in  the  matter  of  the  Church,  its  doctrine  and  its  government. 
Where  you  find  brothers  and  sisters  not  understanding  the  true  order, 
seek  kindly  and  in  a  brotherly  way  to  explain  it  to  them  and  bring 
them  back  into  the  right  path.  If  they  are  falsifying,  teach  them  the 
error  of  their  falsehood.  Try  to  make  them  see  that  falsehood  comes 
from  the  evil  one. 

FALSEHOOD  AND  DECEPTION  FROM  THE  EVIL  ONE 

The  Lord  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  in  connection  with  the 
revelation  given  after  the  loss  of  the  manuscript  by  Martin  Harris, 
principles  regarding  falsehoods  and  falsifying  which  are  applicable  at  all 
times. 

I  am  reading  from  Section  10  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

Yea,  he  saith  unto  them:  Deceive  and  lie  in  wait  to  catch,  that 
ye  may  destroy;  behold,  this  is  no  harm.  .  .  . 

You  see,  he  is  giving  us  the  representations  which  Satan  makes  to 
the  people 

And  thus  he  flattereth  them, 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


(that  is  Satan) 

.  .  .  and  telleth  them  that  it  is  no  sin  to  lie  that  they  may  catch 
a  man  in  a  lie,  that  they  may  destroy  him. 

And  thus  he  flattereth  them,  and  leadeth  them  along  until  he  draggeth 
their  souls  down  to  hell ;  and  thus  he  causeth  them  to  catch  themselves 
in  their  own  snare. 

And  thus  he  goeth  up  and  down,  to  and  fro  in  the  earth,  seeking  to 
destroy  the  souls  of  men. 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  wo  be  unto  him  that  lieth  to  deceive 
because  he  supposeth  that  another  lieth  to  deceive,  for  such  are  not  exempt 
from  the  justice  of  God. 

LAWS  OF  THE  LAND  SHOULD  BE  OBEYED 

Another  heresy  that  is  among  the  people  has  to  do  with  obedience 
to  the  law  of  the  land.  And  I  read  from  Section  58  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants: 

Let  no  man  break  the  laws  of  the  land,  for  he  that  keepeth  the  laws 
of  God  hath  no  need  to  break  the  laws  of  the  land. 

Wherefore,  be  subject  to  the  powers  that  be,  until  he  reigns  whose 
right  it  is  to  reign,  and  subdues  all  enemies  under  his  feet. 

DAILY  REVELATIONS  NOT  NECESSARY 

Another  heresy  to  which  I  wish  to  refer.  Some  of  us  sometimes 
appear  to  look  for  daily  revelations  to  teach  us  how  and  what  to  do. 
This  was  so  in  the  early  days  of  the  Church.  When  the  Lord  placed 
man  upon  the  earth  he  set  up  certain  general  laws,  fundamental  prin- 
ciples, and  then  permitted  man  to  develop  himself  within  those  laws 
and  those  principles.  If  he  undertook  to  tell  us  each  time  what  we  were 
to  do  in  every  detail — and  the  saints  of  the  early  days  of  the  Church 
thought,  as  I  have  stated,  that  he  should  do  so,  and  the  Lord  reproved 
them  for  it — two  things  would  happen.  In  the  first  place  we  would 
virtually  destroy  the  free  agency  of  man,  the  foundation  stone  upon 
which  all  of  our  existence  is  built.  And  in  the  second  place  we  should 
be  under  great  condemnation  if  the  Lord  had  to  reveal  to  us  his  will 
and  then  we  failed  to  follow  it. 

Quoting  again  from  Section  58,  the  Lord  said : 

For  behold,  it  is  not  meet  that  I  should  command  in  all  things ;  for 
he  that  is  compelled  in  all  things,  the  same  is  a  slothful  and  not  a  wise 
servant;  wherefore  he  receiveth  no  reward. 

Verily  I  say,  men  should  be  anxiously  engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and 
do  many  things  of  their  own  free  will,  and  bring  to  pass  much  righteous- 
ness ; 

For  the  power  is  in  them,  wherein  they  are  agents  unto  themselves. 
And  inasmuch  as  men  do  good  they  shall  in  nowise  lose  their  reward. 

But  he  that  doeth  not  anything  until  he  is  commanded,  and  receiveth 
a  commandment  with  doubtful  heart,  and  keepeth  it  with  slothfulness, 
the  same  is  damned. 

Who  am  I  that  made  man,  saith  the  Lord,  that  will  hold  him  guiltless 
that  obeys  not  my  commandments? 

Who  am  I,  saith  the  Lord,  that  have  promised  and  have  not  fulfilled  ? 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


65 


I  command  and  men  obey  not;  I  revoke  and  they  receive  not  the 
blessing. 

Then  they  say  in  their  hearts :  This  is  not  the  work  of  the  Lord,  for 
his  promises  are  not  fulfilled.  But  wo  unto  such,  for  their  reward 
lurketh  beneath;  and  not  from  above. 

"love  thy  neighbor" 

It  is  the  duty  of  each  Latter-day  Saint  living  his  religion  and 
observing  the  laws  of  the  Lord,  living  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  to  try 
to  lead  back  into  the  ways  of  righteousness  and  life  those  who  for  the 
moment  have  permitted  the  light  to  burn  low,  so  low  that  they  stumble 
in  the  way,  not  seeing  the  pitfalls  that  are  ahead  of  them. 

We  may  not,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  think  that  merely  by  our- 
selves living  we  are  doing  our  full  duty.  We  must  go  beyond  this.  We 
must  help  our  brother.  "Love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself,"  the  Lord  said 
was  one  of  the  great  commandments. 

May  the  Lord  give  us  his  blessing,  enable  us  to  understand  his  will, 
enable  us  to  live  as  we  should  live,  strengthen  our  testimony,  give  us 
the  spirit  of  forgiveness,  the  spirit  of  truth,  that  we  may  not  only  save 
ourselves  but  help  to  save  others,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  Choir  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Praise  to  the 
Man  who  Communed  with  Jehovah,"  after  which  the  Choir  sang  an 
anthem,  "Like  a  Choir  of  Mighty  Angels." 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  wish  to  take  for  my  text  this  afternoon,  the  words  of  the  prophet 
Isaiah,  wherein  he  says : 

For  as  the  earth  bringeth  forth  her  bud,  and  as  the  garden  causeth 
the  things  that  are  sown  in  it  to  spring  forth;  so  the  Lord  will  cause 
righteousness  and  praise  to  spring  forth  before  all  the  nations. 

The  ancient  prophet  of  Israel  was  undoubtedly  looking  toward  the 
future  of  his  own  people  when  he  uttered  these  words;  he  was  also 
noting  the  righteousness  of  all  nations  of  the  future  as  they  looked 
to  God  for  wisdom  and  divine  direction.  His  words  may  be  well 
listened  to  today  by  the  people  of  our  own  nation,  for  the  Lord  will  yet 
cause  righteousness  to  spring  forth  in  this  our  land. 

The  government  of  the  United  States  has  passed  through  many 
crises  since  the  adoption  of  the  Constitution  in  1787.  The  one  hundred 
and  forty-seven  years  of  our  national  existence  have  witnessed  times 
of  serious  political  struggles;  periods  of  social  and  economic  strife 
and  unrest.  The  World  War  left  the  nations  of  the  world  with  intricate 
problems.  The  largest  armies  of  all  history  had  marched  to  battle,  and 
nations  were  put  to  the  test  of  preserving  their  integrity.    Kings  and 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


emperors  were  dethroned;  governments  were  overthrown,  and  political 
life  came  to  be  anything  but  the  thoughtful  study  of  the  science  of 
government.  In  our  own  country  particularly,  laws  have  been  enacted 
by  state  legislatures  and  Congress  that  have  little  bearing  on  the  economic 
and  social  questions  of  the  day,  and  as  a  result,  we  are  lost  in  a  veritable 
chaos  of  laws  that  are  never  enforced,  and  which  have  helped  to  bring 
about  a  disregard  for  law  and  order. 

The  present  hour  witnesses  a  crisis,  the  like  of  which  we  have 
never  known  before  in  our  history.  The  fine  morale  of  the  nation  has 
been  broken,  and  this  has  brought  about  a  condition  of  bitterness  and 
hate,  for  people  have  lost  their  regard  for  the  power  of  government  and 
for  the  sanctity  of  the  law.  Envy  and  jealousy,  and  hate  of  neighbor 
for  neighbor  have  crowded  out  our  nobler  altruistic  feelings.  Groups 
of  men,  unmindful  of  human  rights,  are  clamoring  for  changes  in  our 
government.  Our  resources  are  being  wasted.  The  looting  of  the 
public  wealth  has  become  a  recognized  industry,  and  the  men  who  prac- 
tice it  are  as  highly  trained  as  men  in  the  skilled  employments  and 
professions.  The  sorrowful  thing  is  that  these  men  are  entrenched 
behind  the  walls  of  political  trickery.  One  of  the  greatest  plagues 
today  is  the  disregard  for  authority  and  law  in  government,  and  there 
is  growing  up  in  our  social  world  an  aversion  toward  hard  work.  Can 
it  be  that  modern  thought  is  discarding  the  influence  of  Providence  in 
the  affairs  of  men?  The  truth  that  government  is  instituted  by  the 
hand  of  God  was  uppermost  in  the  minds  of  our  forebears  when  the 
Constitution  was  formulated ;  this  thought  inspired  the  very  lives  of 
Washington  and  Lincoln;  and  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord  taught  us  that 
governments  without  the  spirit  of  humble  faith  in  the  Master,  cannot 
live. 

The  Declaration  of  Independence  expresses  the  power  of  the  Creator 
in  three  different  places,  and  in  words  that  speak  of  the  divine  in  man. 
It  says : 

We  hold  these  truths  to  be  self-evident  that  all  men  are  created 
equal;  that  they  are  endowed  by  their  Creator  with  certain  inalienable 
rights ;  that  among  these  are  life,  liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness. 

This  document  and  the  -Constitution  of  our  country  in  their  very 
spirit  recognize  the  divine  truth  that  government  should  be  the  expression 
of  all  that  is  noblest  and  true  in  the  life  of  man.  In  the  settlements 
of  the  frontiers  of  America,  groups  of  religious  men  carried  the  spirit 
of  religion  into  ■  the  unconquered  lands,  and  the  very  fabric  of  our 
government  was  made  up  of  many  beliefs  in  the  ways  of  providence. 
America  for  this  reason  has  a  rich  background  of  the  ideals  of  human 
liberty.  All  through  our  history  the  people  have  held  to  the  belief 
in  the  divine  guidance  of  the  Master.  Yet  when  we  weigh  the  influence 
of  social  conditions  today,  we  may  well  fear  that  we  are  slowly  discarding 
our  faith  in  the  directive  hand  of  an  all-wise  providence.  Can  there 
be  any  nobler  truth  than  that  the  Lord  does  rule  in  the  affairs  of  men? 
Is  his  power  not  seen  in  the  onward  march  of  civilization?  Yet  are  we 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


67 


coming  to  the  destructive  belief  that  man  and  not  God  must  ultimately 
rule  in  the  affairs  of  man.  Is  the  wisdom  of  man  the  only  power  that  will 
solve  our  problems  ?  At  times,  such  a  thought  was  prevalent  in  the  days 
of  ancient  Israel,  but  the  Lord  through  his  prophets  guided  Israel,  and 
we  have  Isaiah  saying: 

For  as  the  earth  bringeth  forth  her  bud,  and  as  the  garden  causeth 
the  things  that  are  sown  in  it  to  spring  forth ;  so  the  Lord  will  cause 
righteousness  and  praise  to  spring  forth  before  all  the  nations. 

The  question,  then:  "Whither  are  we  going?"  is  a  reasonable  one. 

Many  of  the  panaceas  that  we  hear  of  on  every  hand  will  not 
solve  our  problems.  Would  that  we  might  have  some  of  the  old  time 
religious  strength  back  again!  The  old  Puritan  idealism  of  our  pioneer 
parents  was  hard  and  stern  at  times,  but  those  men  and  women  of  early 
days  knew  that  they  must  not  waste  their  vital,  energies  on  profitless 
adventures.  They  were  men  of  self-discipline,  and  they  taught  their 
children  to  hold  themselves  aloof  from  the  moral  degenerations  that 
would  sap  the  strength  of  life. 

The  youth  of  today  have  a  magnificent  vitality,  but  Dr.  Glen  Frank 
has  pointed  out  that  "if  there  is  a  central  weakness  at  the  heart  of  this 
vitality,  it  is  that  youth  is  blind  to  the  necessity  of  conserving  its  vital 
energies."  What  the  youth  of  America  needs  is  the  husbanding  of 
vital  energies  by  the  cultivation  of  clean  habits,  which  alone  "make 
intelligence  and  intensity  of  application  possible  and  productive."  All 
this  is  another  way  of  saying  that  "education  rightly  conceived  contributes 
to  a  religion  of  maturity.  While  it  is  vital  that  we  keep  Church  and 
State  apart,  a  divorce  between  education  and  religion  will  be  fatal  to 
our  national  life." 

We  all  must  discover  the  beauties  of  the  inner  light,  which  is  the 
divine  gift  of  God  to  man.  It  is  the  divine  spirit  that  really  makes  life 
fine  and  noble.  Our  government  can  only  live  as  it  produces  good 
citizens  who  know  that  the  Golden  Rule  is  still  golden,  and  that  the 
Sermon  on  the  Mount  and  the  Ten  Commandments  are  still  the  guiding 
forces  of  morality  both  for  the  individual  and  for  society.  Robert 
Louis  Stevenson  uses  an  expression  in  one  of  his  essays  that  has  a 
forceful  meaning.  He  says  that  we  must  put  into  our  thinking  more  of 
what  he  calls  the  "purple."  To  solve  our  problems,  we  must  have  that 
fine  discernment  of  issues  that  give  us  simplicity  instead  of  confusion. 
What  care  we  if  that  solution  comes  by  way  of  the  street  or  the  school. 
"Wisdom  is  justified  of  all  of  her  children."  The  home,  the  church, 
and  the  state  must  teach  the  greater  sacrifice  and  the  higher  laws.  So 
let  the  search  for  truth  go  on,  but  let  brotherly  righteousness  have  its 
day  among  us  as  we  search  for  truth. 

Every  reform  must  be  vested  with  sacredness,  and  a  nation  that  is 
great  is  not  incompatible  with  righteousness.  The  spirit  of  progress 
and  nationality  must  be  related  to  the  divine  purposes.  There  is  a  call 
of  God  to  the  nations  as  well  as  there  is  to  men.  The  nation  which 
has  the  bravest,  the  most  trustworthy,  the  most  thoroughly  developed 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


conscience  will  have  the  right  of  way  in  the  onward  march  of  civilization. 
"Open  ye  the  gates,"  runs  a  joyous  prophecy,  "that  the  righteous  nation 
which  keepeth  the  truth  may  enter  in."  How  majestically  true  is  one 
of  our  teachings  as  we  have  it  from  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith,  when 
he  wrote: 

We  believe  that  governments  were  instituted  of  God  for  the  benefit 
of  man;  and  that  he  holds  men  accountable  for  their  acts  in  relation 
to  them,  both  in  making  laws  and  administering  them,  for  the  good  and 
safety  of  society. 

The  tendency  to  rule  God  out  of  the  affairs  of  life  is  a  tragic  thing. 
Why  should  he  not  make  his  habitation  wherever  men  build  their  homes, 
and  do  their  work,  and  fight  their  battles?  The  American  people  in  the 
beginning  stood  committed  to  a  serious  business,  and  that  was  to  establish 
a  free  government  among  all  its  citizenry.  This  ideal  had  deep  meaning. 
It  was  the  greatest  experiment  in  government  in  all  history,  and  the 
basis  of  it  was  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States.  It  made  of  our 
nation  the  keeper  and  exponent  of  the  great  ideas  and  ideals  of  the 
world.  Thus  America  has  contributed  mightily  to  the  spiritual  forces 
of  the  world,  and  it  has  given  a  new  conception  to  all  peoples  of  Christ 
and  his  mission.  It  has  said  to  every  man  and  woman:  "You  are  a 
child  of  God.  Enter.  We  will  do  our  best.  There  shall  be  no  king. 
There  shall  be  no  subject.  There  shall  be  no  master.  There  shall  be 
no  slave."  This  is  one  of  the  gifts  of  the  Father  of  us  all.  It  is  not 
gold,  nor  silver,  nor  fame  which  makes  success.  "It  is  truth,  honor, 
and  justice.  It  is  faith,  hope,  and  love."  "It  is,"  as  an  old  French 
writer  once  said,  "on  the  virtues  of  mankind  and  the  freedom  of  man- 
kind that  the  future  of  mankind  is  to  be  builded." 

What  we  need  today  is  a  group  of  high-souled  men,  men  of  vision 
and  high  morals,  to  put  our  nation  in  order,  and  to  bring  back  that 
old-fashioned  conscience  of  the  nation,  which  recognizes  the  fact  that 
the  highest  laws  are  the  laws  of  God.  Every  man  should  put  himself 
clearly  and  openly  into  some  relationship  of  responsibility,  for  we  are 
today  beset  with  the  mob  spirit,  which  always  acts  apart  from  the 
organization  of  government.  This  is  why  the  mob  spirit  is  wrong.  We 
should  honor  our  past  in  the  present;  our  dead  in  the  living.  What  I 
want  to  hold  up  before  us  all  is  the  conscience  of  our  nation  and  govern- 
ment. Moral  integrity,  moral  purposes,  moral  restraint  are  the  neces- 
sities of  the  hour.  If  these  things  can  be  brought  about,  the  nations 
of  the  world  will  have  this  to  say  of  us:  "Surely  this  great  nation 
is  a  wise  and  understanding  people."  Ideals  must  be  established  in  the 
minds  of  the  rising  generation.  While  we  realize  that  the  age  in  which 
we  live  is  new,  the  youth  will  never  find  anything  more  true  and  noble 
than  the  spirit  of  pioneer  America,  when  the  first  impulse  was  the  joy 
of  enterprise,  initiative,  and  newly  awakened  powers.  Honesty  of  pur- 
pose must  be  re-established;  honesty  of  endeavor,  honesty  of  word, 
honesty  in  our  relationship  with  our  fellow-men.  "Look  unto  the  rock, 
whence  ye  are  hewn,"  wrote  Isaiah  of  old ;  and  Solomon  in  his  wisdom 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


69 


said:  "Remove  not  the  ancient  land-mark,  which  thy  fathers  have  set." 

We  must  hark  back  to  the  finer  fundamentals  of  life,  we  must  make 
every  law  and  principle  of  right  effective  in  our  very  lives.  The  end 
of  the  State  is  not  to  live,  but  to  live  nobly,  and  this  can  only  be  done 
as  we  realize  the  truth  of  truths,  that  the  teachings  of  the  Master  must 
become  the  guiding  stars  of  our  lives.  "For  as  the  earth  bringeth  forth 
her  bud,  and  as  the  garden  causeth  the  things  that  are  sown  in  it  to  spring 
forth ;  so  the  Lord  will  cause  righteousness  and  praise  to  spring  forth 
before  all  the  nations." 

I  pray  that  we  American  people  may  see  anew  the  importance  of 
justice  and  truth,  and  that  we  may  rise  above  the  ignorance  and  degraded 
politics  of  the  present,  and  come  into  the  light  of  the  new  day;  andi 
dedicate  our  lives  to  more  glorious  purposes :  to  the  will  of  the  Master, 
to  the  purposes  of  our  Lord.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  a  feeling  akin  to  awe  comes  today  as  never 
before  in  the  history  of  the  world  to  any  person  who  occupies  this 
position.  He  speaks  to  thousands  of  his  fellowmen,  facing  them;  he 
speaks  to  thousands  who  listen  in  on  the  radio ;  he  speaks  into  space,  for 
the  radio  waves  never  die — they  enter  the  remotest  corner  of  the  uni- 
verse— they  speak  to  eternity.  That  is  a  solemn  thought. 

IN  FULFILMENT  OF  ANCIENT  PROPHECY 

I  suppose  we  all  had  that  thought  this  forenoon  when  we  were 
listening  to  the  wonderful  broadcast  of  the  Presidency  to  all  the  world. 
With  the  coming  of  television,  with  the  possession  of  radio,  it  seems 
that  the  fulfilment  of  the  prophecy  of  old  is  near  at  hand:  "There 
is  no  eye  that  shall  not  see,  neither  ear  that  shall  not  hear,  neither  heart 
that  shall  not  be  penetrated." 

I  enjoyed  the  message  of  our  President  yesterday,  a  message  of 
gratitude  because  of  the  growth  of  the  Church.  Zion  is  growing,  he 
said,  and  we  all  rejoice.  It  is  not  a  selfish  joy,  for  while  we  rejoice 
that  we  are  spreading  abroad  and  succeeding,  we  rejoice  more  that  be- 
cause of  that  spreading  we  shall  be  able  to  serve  better  our  fellowman. 
This  great  Latter-day  cause  is  not  for  us  alone.  Our  mission  is  to  all 
the  world.  And  every  gain  that  we  make  must  be  used  for  the  benefit 
of  our  fellowman. 

A  COURAGEOUS  EXPERIMENT 

May  I  for  a  few  moments  direct  your  minds  to  some  thoughts  of 
mine  in  connection  with  the  work  that  I  have  been  doing  the  last  few 
months?  I  have  been  engaged  in  a  direct,  positive  experiment  to  solve 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


some  of  the  social  and  economic  ills  that  have  been  talked  about  today 
and  yesterday  in  this  conference.  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  teaching 
Mormonism,  the  principles,  practice,  and  history  of  it,  to  university 
classes  for  university  credit — as  if  the  subject  were  one  of  the  recognized 
university  subjects.  It  has  been  a  rare  opportunity.  Four  other  churches 
have  had  the  same  privilege.  It  is  a  courageous  experiment  undertaken 
by  the  University  of  Southern  California.  The  reason  for  undertaking 
this  experiment  is  simple  enough.  Thinking  men  have  come  to  the 
conclusion  that  there  is  only  one  way  out  of  our  difficulties  in  this 
country  and  throughout  the  world.  No  plan  made  by  congress  or  by 
private  individuals  for  economic  and  social  recovery  will  succeed  except 
upon  the  basis  of  the  acceptance  of  religion.  By  the  acceptance  and 
practice  of  spiritual  truth  alone  shall  we  find  our  way  back  to  economic 
stability  and  social  happiness. 

TEACHING  RELIGION  IN  THE  SCHOOLS 

We  have  attempted  at  the  University  of  Southern  California  this 
winter  to  teach  religion,  living  religion,  followed  by  large  groups  of  living 
people,  to  those  who  have  cared  to  listen,  in  the  hope  that  thereby  they 
might  be  made  better  citizens  than  they  otherwise  could  be  and  that  they 
would  go  out  to  contribute  to  the  solution  of  our  national  and  inter- 
national difficulties.  Our  nation,  as  we  know,  is  today  a  school-made 
nation.  The  schools  are  making  our  citizens.  The  school  has  made  most 
of  us  who  are  here  today.  The  schools  are  training  our  children  for 
life's  activities ;  and  as  the  schools  teach,  as  the  schools  direct  the  thinking 
of  our  young  people,  so  our  nation  will  become,  indeed  has  become. 

It  is  a  curious  fact  that  a  child,  an  American  child,  may  go  through 
the  elementary  schools,  compelled  to  do  so  by  the  law,  may  go  through 
high  school,  may  go  through  the  state  college  and  university  and  never 
hear  the  name  of  God  mentioned  nor  take  any  subject  of  study  telling 
him  how  he  shall  conduct  himself  in  life.  Character — we  all  admit  the 
importance  of  it — is  practically  forgotten  in  the  curriculum  of  the  schools 
of  the  United  States.  Thinkers  talk  about  it,  there  is  much  said  about  it 
on  the  public  platform,  but  little  is  done  about  it. 

THE  PLACE  OF  CHARACTER  IN  EDUCATION 

It  is  for  that  reason  that  the  university  with  which  I  have  been 
associated  the  last  few  months  has  had  the  courage  to  say,  "We  will 
raise  religion  to  academic  dignity.  We  will  give  it  a  place  in  the  sun, 
in  the  educational  sun,  that  thereby  we  may  help  change  the  thinking 
and  improve  the  conscience,  as  Professor  Young  has  just  said,  of  the 
people  of  this  great  country.  It  has  been  said  that  there  is  no  substitute 
for  character.  Character  is  the  thing  that  makes  us  do  certain  things. 
Our  conduct  depends  upon  our  character.  Nevertheless,  one  great 
university  president,  the  president  of  one  of  the  great  universities  of 
America,  said  at  a  public  meeting  in  my  hearing,  and  later  published  the 
statement  in  pamphlet  form,  that  the  purpose  of  a  university  is  to  train 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE  71 

men  and  women  mentally  and  that  character  must  be  a  by-product  of 
education.  We  Latter-day  Saints  take  just  the  opposite  view,  that  the 
direct  purpose  of  all  life,  of  every  life  activity,  of  our  schools  in  par- 
ticular, of  all  training  and  teaching  institutions,  must  be  the  formation 
and  development  of  a  proper  character.  We  do  not  accept  the  doctrine 
that  character  is  a  by-product  of  education.  That  doctrine,  intolerable 
to  Latter-day  Saint  understanding,  has  much  to  do  with  the  social  and 
economic  chaos  in  which  we  find  ourselves  in  this  country  at  the  present 
time. 

GOD  AND  MAN  WHAT  THEY  ARE 

That  is  not  all.  Character  may  be  built  on  ethics,  on  simple  laws 
of  human  conduct  to  avoid  offending  our  neighbor.  We  believe  that  an 
acceptable  character  must  include,  as  Professor  Young  has  stated,  belief 
in  the  living  God,  a  God  of  whose  race  we  are.  Here,  again,  we  find  a 
difficulty  to  be  considered,  at  least  by  Latter-day  Saints.  I  heard  the 
leader  of  one  of  the  greatest  divinity  schools  in  America,  the  trainer  for 
a  generation  of  time  of  the  ministers  of  churches  in  America,  say  in 
so  many  words  that  man  is  but  the  product  of  cosmic  forces,  unknown 
forces,  and  that  the  word  God  is  but  a  name  for  those  cosmic  forces,  and 
nothing  more.  To  Latter-day  Saints  God  is  a  personage,  the  greatest 
intelligence  in  the  universe,  our  spiritual  Father.  We  are  of  his  kind 
and  we  may  approach  nearer  and  nearer  his  likeness,  if  with  all  our 
might  we  live  righteously  throughout  our  eternal  life. 

THE  KIND  OF  CONCEPTS  NEEDED  TODAY 

We  need  to  teach  the  youth  of  our  Church  and  of  the  world  the 
reality  of  the  living  God.  Not  only  that,  but  that  God  lives  in  the  unseen 
world,  and  that  the  unseen  world  is  real.  Into  that  unseen  world  we 
shall  go  some  day,  and  there  we  shall  find  those  who  have  gone  before 
us.  In  course  of  time  there  will  be  a  resurrection  of  the  body,  a  reunion 
of  the  spirit  and  the  body.  There  will  come  a  judgment  based  upon  our 
deeds.  These  are  real  concepts  that  America  needs  to  understand  and 
to  accept  and  must  understand  and  accept  before  peace  can  be  fully 
restored  in  our  economic  and  social  life.  The  whole  program  of  life 
is  governed  by  law,  according  to  a  great  plan  in  the  mind  of  the  Creator. 
He  governs  and  directs  all  that  happens  on  this  earth.  We  can  not 
defeat  the  purposes  of  the  Almighty,  though  we  may  delay  them  through 
our  stubbornness.  A  plan  for  human  salvation  has  been  laid  out,  and 
somehow  the  Lord  through  his  power  will  see  to  it  that  his  purposes 
fail  not.    "The  God  of  Israel,  he  slumbers  not  nor  sleeps." 

We  need  today  to  have  the  conception  of  God  and  the  things  of 
God  that  were  given  to  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  one  hundred 
years  ago  last  Friday, — I  need  not  take  the  time  to  read  it,  but  do  ask 
you  to  read  in  Section  1 10  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  the  description 
of  God  as  given  in  poor  human  words  by  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery.   They  tried  to  describe  the  glory  of  the  personage  who  stood 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


before  them — not  a  cosmic  force,  but  a  living  being — who  spoke  to 
them  with  a  voice  like  thunder.  After  he  had  gone  others  came,  beings 
of  the  unseen  world  who  had  been  upon  this  earth,  who  had  lived  here, 
who  had  gone  into  the  spirit  world  and  now  were  commissioned  to  come 
back  to  perform  certain  important  tasks.  They  unrolled,  as  it  were, 
the  plan  and  purpose  of  human  existence. 

That  is  the  type  of  faith,  with  its  applications  to  human  conduct, 
that  we  try  to  teach  to  these  special  classes,  in  living  religions,  so  far  as 
I  am  able,  at  the  University  of  Southern  California.  I  think  my 
colleagues  serving  other  churches  are  doing  the  same  as  best  they  can. 
Our  country  needs  that  kind  of  instruction. 

OUR  CHARACTER-TRAINING  ORGANIZATIONS 

I  trust  that  we  Latter-day  Saints  are  making  good  use  of  our  Sunday 
Schools,  Primaries,  Mutual  Improvement  Associations,  seminaries  and 
institutes,  since  our  public  schools  are  not  yet  ready  to  give  us  the  char- 
acter training  that  we  need.  Dare  we,  fathers  and  mothers,  withhold 
such  training  from  our  children?  And  dare  you,  young  people  who 
are  assembled  here  this  afternoon,  dare  you  avoid  and  deny  yourselves 
the  kind  of  training  which  in  the  end  will  determine  your  true  success? 

God  be  with  us,  bless  us  in  our  attempts  to  bring  righteousness  into 
our  lives  and  to  serve  God  as  he  would  desire  us  to  serve  him,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  trust  that  I  may  be  permitted  also  to  express  my  appreciation 
and  gratitude  for  the  services  held  here  this  morning. 

BEYOND  COMPREHENSION 

I  have  been  thinking  of  a  remark  made  by  an  ancient  prophet  when 
he  considered  the  great  works  of  the  Lord.  He  said :  "Such  knowledge 
is  too  wonderful  for  me;  it  is  high.  I  cannot  attain  unto  it."  The 
broadcast  we  heard  this  morning  is  too  wonderful  for  me.  I  do  not 
comprehend  it.  Forty  years  ago  I  heard  one  of  the  members  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  say  the  time  would  come  when  men  would  be 
able  to  converse  from  city  to  city  without  the  aid  of  telephone  wires.  I 
believed  him,  but  I  looked  upon  that  as  something  that  was  going  to 
come  in  some  future  time,  that  I  would  not  live  to  see.  But  I  have  seen 
it ;  it  is  marvelous.  I  do  not  comprehend  it,  you  do  not,  but  thd  virtue 
in  it,  the  power  and  the  force  that  may  be  used  in  the  preaching  of  the 
Gospel  and  bringing  to  pass  the  purposes  of  the  Lord  are  wonderful 
and  also  beyond  our  comprehension. 

The  Lord  declared  that  he  would  cut  short  his  work  in  righteousness, 
and  I  can  understand  how  that  can  be  brought  about. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  73 


I  want  to  thank  this  choir  for  their  integrity  and  faithfulness,  their 
devotion  to  this  cause. 

AN  EVENT  OF  GREAT  SIGNIFICANCE 

And  now  I  would  like  to  enlarge  somewhat  upon  a  statement  made 
by  Elder  Widtsoe,  but  mentioned  by  him  incidentally.  We  witnessed 
this  morning  a  demonstration  as  wonderful  as  anything  we  have  ever 
seen.  One  hundred  years  ago  last  Friday  there  occurred  another  most 
wonderful  event,  the  effects  of  which  are  being  felt  in  every  nation  upon 
the  face  of  the  earth  today.  It  was  not  a  broadcast,  no  one  knew  of  it 
except  two  men  who  stood,  as  we  have  heard,  before  the  pulpit  in  the 
House  of  the  Lord  in  the  presence  of  the  Son  of  God  as  he  spoke  !to 
them.  I  am  going  to  read  one  or  two  verses  that  he  declared  unto  them 
on  that  occasion. 

For  behold,  I  have  accepted  this  house,  and  my  name  shall  be  here; 
and  I  will  manifest  myself  to  my  people  in  mercy  in  this  house. 

Yea,  I  will  appear  unto  my  servants,  and  speak  unto  them  with  mine 
own  voice,  if  my  people  will  keep  my  commandments,  and  do  not  pollute 
this  holy  house. 

Yea,  the  hearts  of  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  shall  greatly 
rejoice  in  consequence  of  the  blessings  which  shall  be  poured  out,  and  the 
endowment  with  which  my  servants  have  been  endowed  in  this  house. 

And  the  fame  of  this  house  shall  spread  to  foreign  lands;  and  this 
is  the  beginning  of  the  blessing  which  shall  be  poured  out  upon  the 
heads  of  my  people.  Even  so.  Amen.  (Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
110:7-10.) 

That  which  took  place  on  the  third  day  of  April  in  the  year  1836 
has  spread  forth  to  all  lands.  Thousands  and  tens  of  thousands,  even 
hundreds  of  thousands  have  been  blessed  because  of  what  took  place 
upon  that  occasion.  Not  only  the  thousands  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  but  thousands  upon  thousands  who  are  not 
members  of  the  Church  have  partaken  of  the  blessings  which  came  at  that 
time  and  which  have  spread  forth  throughout  the  earth.  And  while  they 
may  not  know  it,  they  have  been  influenced,  and  have  many  of  them 
performed  a  wonderful  work  because  of  the  things  that  took  place,  and 
because  of  the  fulfilment  of  this  prediction  made  by  the  Son  of  God. 

KEYS  OF  GATHERING  BESTOWED 

After  this  vision  closed,  we  are  informed  that  there  was  another 
vision. 

*  *  *  the  heavens  were  again  opened  unto  us;  and  Moses  appeared 
before  us,  and  committed  unto  us  the  keys  of  the  gathering  of  Israel  from 
the  four  parts  of  the  earth,  and  the  leading  of  the  ten  tribes  from  the 
land  of  the  north.    (Id.  110:11.) 


Through  the  bestowal  of  those  keys  which  were  held  by  Moses  and 
which  were  essential  to  the  salvation  of  men  and  the  success  of  the  work 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  Lord  in  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times  in  which  we  live, 
you  people,  who  are  here  assembled,  have  been  gathered.  The  word 
of  the  Lord  has  been  carried  to  the  nations,  many  of  the  honest  have 
been  gathered  out  and  have  come  with  their  songs  of  everlasting  joy 
to  the  House  of  the  Lord  and  to  Zion,  to  learn  of  his  ways ;  and  that, 
if  you  please,  through  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  and  the  restoration 
of  the  keys  held  by  the  ancient  prophet  who  held  the  keys  of  the  Gath- 
ering of  Israel. 

ELIAS  AND  HIS  MISSION 

Then  when  this  vision  closed,  another  vision  burst  upon  them : 

After  this,  Elias  appeared,  and  committed  the  dispensation  of  the 
gospel  of  Abraham,  saying  that  in  us  and  our  seed  all  generations  after 
us  should  be  blessed.    (Id.  110:12.) 

This  Elias  was  a  prophet  who  lived  in  the  days  of  Abraham  and 
who  held  the  keys  of  that  dispensation.  He  came  and  bestowed  the 
gifts  and  the  blessings  that  were  pronounced  upon  Abraham's  head,  and 
his  posterity  after  him,  and  all  that  pertained  to  that  dispensation,  for 
in  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times  in  which  we  live,  all  dispen- 
sations had  to  be  revealed,  all  keys  had  to  be  restored,  and  hence  the 
prophets  of  old,  having  the  keys  of  dispensations  had  to  come  declaring 
their  honors,  their  authority,  the  power  of  their  priesthood. 

IN  FULFILMENT  OF  PREDICTION 

Then  came  another  glorious  manifestation  in  fulfilment  of  the 
prediction  made  by  the  prophet  Malachi  some  four  hundred  years  before 
the  birth  of  Christ.    We  read  again: 

....  Elijah  the  prophet,  who  was  taken  to  heaven  without  tasting 

death,  stood  before  us,  and  said : 

Behold,  the  time  has  fully  come,  which  was  spoken  of  by  the  mouth 

of  Malachi — testifying  that  he  (Elijah)  should  be  sent  before  the  great 

and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  come- 
To  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children,  and  the  children 

to  the  fathers,  lest  the  whole  earth  be  smitten  with  a  curse — ■ 

Therefore,  the  keys  of  this  dispensation  are  committed  into  your 

hands ;  and  by  this  ye  may  know  that  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the 

Lord  is  near,  even  at  the  doors.     (Doctrine  and  Covenants  110:13-16.) 

Since  the  bestowal  of  these  keys  the  work  of  salvation  for  the  dead 
has  been  proclaimed,  has  taken  hold  of  the  hearts  of  the  children  of 
men,  I  say,  both  in  the  Church  and  out  of  it.  There  are  thousands  who 
are  working  in  the  gathering  of  the  records  of  the  dead,  and  why  they 
do  it  they  do  not  know. 

I  asked  one  man  in  the  city  of  Salem,  Massachusetts,  in  the  year 
1902  why  he  was  gathering  the  records  of  the  dead.  He  was  undertaking 
a  marvelous  work.  He  said  to  me :  "I  do  not  know,  but  I  got  started 
and  I  cannot  quit."    I  know  why. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


JEWISH  TRADITION  REGARDING  THE  PASCHAL  SEASON 

I  want  to  call  your  attention  to  an  incident  which  I  think  is  of 
some  importance.  I  am  going  to  read  to  you  a  statement  from  Alfred 
Edersheim  in  his  work  "The  Temple."  Speaking  of  "The  Paschal 
Feast  and  the  Lord's  Supper,"  he  says : 

Jewish  tradition  has  this  curious  conceit:  that  the  most  important 
events  in  Israel's  history  were  connected  with  the  Paschal  season.  Thus 
it  is  said  to  have  been  on  the  present  Paschal  night  that,  after  his  sacrifice, 
the  "horror  of  darkness"  fell  upon  Abraham  when  God  revealed  to  him 
the  future  of  his  race.  Similarly,  it  is  supposed  to  have  been  at  Passover 
time  that  the  patriarch  entertained  his  heavenly  guests,  that  Sodom 
was  destroyed  and  Lot  escaped,  and  that  the  walls  of  Jericho  fell  before 
the  Lord.  More  than  that — the  "cake  of  barley  bread"  seen  in  the  dream 
which  led  to  the  destruction  of  Midian's  hosts,  had  been  prepared  from 
the  Omer,  presented  on  the  second  day  of  the  feast  of  unleavened  bread ; 
just  as  at  a  later  period  alike  the  captains  of  Sennacherib  and  the  king 
of  Assyria,  who  tarried  at  Nob,  were  overtaken  by  the  hand  of  God  at  the 
Passover  season.  It  was  at  the  Paschal  time  also  that  the  mysterious 
handwriting  appeared  on  the  wall  to  declare  Babylon's  doom,  and  again 
at  the  Passover  that  Esther  and  the  Jews  fasted,  and  that  wicked  Haman 
perished. 

Now  here  is  something  of  great  significance : 

And  so  also  in  the  last  days  it  would  be  the  Paschal  night  when  the 
final  judgment  should  come  upon  "Edom,"  and  the  glorious  deliverance 
of  Israel  take  place.  Hence  to  this  day,  in  every  Jewish  home,  at  a  certain 
part  of  the  Paschal  service — the  door  is  opened  to  admit  Elijah  the  prophet 
as  forerunner  of  the  Messiah,  while  appropriate  passages  are  at  the  same 
time  read  which  foretell  the  destruction  of  all  heathen  nations.  It  is  a 
remarkable  coincidence  that,  in  instituting  his  own  Supper,  the  Lord  Jesus 
connected  the  symbol,  not  of  judgment,  but  of  his  dying  love,  with  his 
"third  cup." 

THE   COMING  OF  ELIJAH 

It  was,  I  am  informed,  on  the  third  day  of  April,  1836,  that  the 
Jews,  in  their  homes  at  the  Paschal  feast,  opened  their  doors  for  Elijah 
to  enter.  On  that  very  day  Elijah  did  enter — not  in  the  home  of  the 
Jews  to  partake  of  the  Passover  with  them,  but  he  appeared  in  the 
House  of  the  Lord,  erected  to  his  name  and  received  by  the  Lord  in 
Kirtland,  and  there  bestowed  his  keys  to  bring  to  pass  the  very  things 
for  which  these  Jews,  assembled  in  their  homes,  were  seeking. 

THE  COMING  OF  THE  LORD  IS  NEAR 

The  day  of  the  coming  of  the  Lord  is  near.  I  do  not  know  when. 
I  am  not  looking,  however,  upon  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man  as  I 
looked  once  upon  the  day  when  men  would  speak  from  city  to  city  and 
throughout  the  land  without  the  aid  of  wires,  and  would  be  heard,  as 
something  that  may  come  in  some  far  distant  time,  because  I  sincerely 
believe  it  will  come  in  the  very,  day  when  some  of  us  who  are  here  today 
will  be  living  upon  the  face  of  the  earth.    That  day  is  close  at  hand. 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


It  behooves  us  as  Latter-day  Saints  to  set  our  houses  in  order,  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  God,  to  turn  from  evil  to  righteousness  if  it  is 
necessary,  and  serve  the  Lord  in  humility  and  faith  and  prayer. 

So  I  pray  that  we  may  do  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

THE  PASSING  OF  JOHN  W.  HART 

Word  has  come  to  me  that  this  morning  at  about  5  o'clock  Presi- 
dent John  W.  Hart  of  the  Rigby  Stake  of  Zion,  and  for  many  years 
a  member  of  the  Auditing  Committee  of  the  Church,  passed  away  due 
to  a  heart  attack. 

Brother  Hart  was  true,  faithful  and  diligent  from  his  youth  to  the 
time  of  his  death.  He  was  a  pioneer  in  Idaho  in  early  days  when 
there  was  little  but  sagebrush  to  be  seen  as  far  as  the  eye  could  reach. 
He  lived  to  erect  one  of  our  largest  and  finest  stake  houses,  and  was 
faithful  to  every  duty  and  responsibility  that  rested  upon  him. 

When  the  fearful  hardships  of  the  depression  came  and  the  bank 
of  which  he  was  the  president  failed,  he  gave  practically  everything 
he  had  that  the  depositors  should  lose  nothing.  He  was  a  God-fearing, 
faithful,  true  man. 

I  want  to  endorse  all  the  good  things  that  have  been  said  about  the 
singing  during  this  conference. 

The  Choir  sang  The  Hallelujah  Chorus,  from  the  "Messiah"  (Han- 
del). 

Elder  Archie  R.  Boyack,  President  of  the  Big  Horn  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10 :00  o'clock  Monday  morning,  April  6. 


THIRD  DAY 

MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Monday  morning,  April  6,  at  10  o'clock. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers,  under  the  direction  of  Sister 
Charlotte  O.  Sackett,  furnished  the  music  for  this  session  of  the  Con- 
ference. 

President  Grant  opened  the  meeting  by  announcing  that  the  Choir 
and  congregation  would  join  in  singing  the  hymn,  "How  Firm  a  Foun- 
dation." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn,  the  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Heber  C.  Williams,  President  of  the  North  Sevier  Stake. 
The  Choir  sang,  "The  Lord  is  My  Shepherd." 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


77 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Notwithstanding  the  anxiety  I  felt  in  having  to  address  this  large 
congregation,  I  am  very  happy  today ;  happy  in  my  religion,  having  an 
absolute  assurance  of  its  truth,  without  any  harassing  doubts  or  fears. 
For  this  assurance  and  testimony,  I  am  grateful  beyond  my  power  to 
express. 

"doers  of  the  word,  not  hearers  only" 

I  should  like,  if  possible,  to  say  something  on  this  occasion,  in  a  very 
brief  talk,  that  would  stimulate  faith  and  religious  activity  to  some  de- 
gree in  the  lives  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  As  a  people  we  are  well  taught 
in  matters  pertaining  to  our  religion.  What  we  most  need  is  to  be  im- 
pressed with  the  necessity  of  doing  as  well  as  we  know,  of  being  "doers 
of  the  word,  not  hearers  only,  deceiving  ourselves."  If  we  were  to  do 
as  well  as  we  know,  our  salvation  would  be  secure.  I  desire  particularly 
at  this  time  to  emphasize  the  importance  of  observing  the  law  of  tithing, 
and  the  generous  giving  of  fast  offerings,  as  a  potent  factor  in  the  scheme 
of  man's  salvation,  and  in  support  of  the  Church,  and  the  work  it  is 
designed  to  accomplish.  There  is  today  an  emergency  in  the  land,  a  wide 
spread  financial  depression ;  and  the  Church  feels  it  keenly.  Many  of  its 
members  are  without  employment  or  other  means  of  support  and  are 
dependent  upon  the  Government,  the  Church,  or  other  charitable  insti- 
tutions for  a  subsistence  for  themselves  and  their  families.  The  Church 
Authorities  are  concerned  over  this  unfortunate  condition.  They  would 
like  to  care  for  the  faithful  members  who  are  in  need  of  financial  as- 
sistance ;  but  how  this  may  be  accomplished  is  a  question  which  is  giving 
them  no  little  anxiety. 

The  Lord  has  made  provision  in  his  Church  to  meet  every  emer- 
gency that  might  arise,  provided,  the  members  will  do  their  part.  If  all 
the  members  had  paid  their  fast  offerings  and  their  tithes  in  full  since 
becoming  members  of  the  Church,  there  would  have  been  sufficient  means 
in  the  storehouse  of  the  Lord  to  meet  this  oppressive  emergency. 

AN  EXAMPLE  OF  LOYALTY  AND  FAITHFULNESS 

■  There  was  a  serious  emergency,  of  a  financial  character,  existing  in 
the  Church  when  Lorenzo  Snow  came  to  be  its  president.  The  proper- 
ties and  moneys  of  the  Church  had  been  escheated  and  taken  over  by  the 
United  States  Government,  making  it  necessary  for  the  Church  to  bor- 
row large  sums  of  money,  and  later  to  bond  the  Church  for  means  with 
which  to  carry  on  its  current  work.  In  due  time  these  obligations  had 
to  be  met.  President  Snow,  acting  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord, 
and  of  his  high  calling,  took  with  him  certain  members  of  the  First 
Presidency  and  of  the  Twelve  and,  by  team,  went  to  St.  George,  and  from 
there  traveled  north  through  Utah  and  into  Idaho,  holding  meetings  in 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  settlements  on  the  way,  appealing  to  the  Saints  to  come  to  the  relief 
of  the  Church  in  its  time  of  financial  distress  by  the  faithful  payment  of 
their  tithes  and  offerings.  The  people  responded  to  the  appeal  to  that 
extent  that  the  bonds  and  other  indebtedness  of  the  Church  were  soon 
paid  off  and  the  Church  was  once  more  free  from  debt. 

OUR  INDEBTEDNESS  TO  THE  LORD 

If  all  the  Saints  of  today  were  to  pay  a  just  and  full  tithe  of  their 
increase,  and  be  liberal  in  the  payment  of  their  fast  offerings,  which  we 
plead  with  them  to  do,  the  Church  would  be  able  to  care  for  its  needy 
members,  that  none  would  have  to  suffer. 

The  Saints  living  in  the  days  of  President  Snow  set  a  good  example 
of  loyalty  to  Church  authority  and  of  obedience  to  the  law  of  tithing. 
We  should  be  as  loyal  and  as  faithful  as  were  our  forebears.  Such  faith- 
fulness makes  for  individual  salvation  and  the  welfare  and  progress  of 
the  work  of  the  Lord. 

The  Lord  expects  every  member  of  his  Church  to  do  and  to  give  for 
the  carrying  on  of  his  work,  according  to  the  individual's  ability  and  his 
means.  Those  who  neglect  to  do  their  part  will  meet  with  serious  dis- 
appointment in  the  end. 

A  record  of  what  tithing  we  have  paid  is  kept  in  heaven,  also  of 
what  we  should  have  paid.  The  difference  represents  our  indebtedness 
to  the  Lord.  We  should  make  the  ledger  to  balance  before  finishing 
this  life's  labors. 

WORKING  FOR  THE  LORD 

There  are  in  the  Church  many  business  men  and  men  of  professions 
who  have  become  spiritually  inactive,  their  entire  time  being  devoted  to 
their  business  or  profession.  They  could  pay  their  tithing  and  by  so 
doing  be  rendering  valuable  aid  to  every  division  of  the  work  for  which 
tithing  is  used. 

The  Lord  needs  us  in  his  work,  and  he  needs  our  tithes  and  offer- 
ings ;  and  we  need  him  every  hour. 

The  Lord  had  a  job  for  me 

But  I  had  so  much  to  do 

I  said,  You  get  somebody  else 

Or  wait  till  I  get  through. 

I  don't  know  how  the  Lord  came  out, 

No  doubt  he  got  along 

But  I  felt  rather  sneaking  like, 

1  knew  I'd  done  God  wrong. 

One  day  I  needed  the  Lord — 
Needed  him  right  away; 
But  he  never  answered  me  at  all, 
And  I  could  hear  him  saying 
Down  in  my  accusing  heart, 
Child,  I've  too  much  to  do. 
You  get  somebody  else, 
Or  wait  till  I  get  through. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


79 


Now  when  the  Lord  has  a  job  for  me, 

I  never  try  to  shirk, 

I  drop  what  I  have  in  hand, 

And  do  the  Lord's  good  work. 

And  my  affairs  may  run  along 

Or  wait  till  I  get  through. 

Nobody  else  can  do  the  work 

God  has  laid  out  for  you. 

WE  ARE  HERE  FOR  A  SPECIFIC  PURPOSE 

A  story  is  told  of  a  young  man  who  was  very  desirous  of  getting  an 
education.  His  parents  were  unable  to  send  him  to  college,  so  he  walked 
to  the  college  city,  and,  after  diligent  inquiry,  succeeded  in  finding  a 
place  where  by  chopping  wood  he  could  pay  his  board  and  lodgings. 
Later  one  of  the  college  professors  gave  him  a  job  cutting  wood  to  pay 
for  his  tuition.  Others,  learning  of  his  success  as  a  wood  chopper,  em- 
ployed him  to  chop  wood  for  them.  He  soon  found  that  he  had  no  time 
to  go  to  college,  and  he  became  content  with  his  success  as  a  wood  chopper. 
This  represents  a  condition  which  obtains  with  many  of  us. 

We  came  to  earth  for  a  specific  purpose — that  of  working  out  our 
own  salvation,  or  in  other  words  to  prepare  for  the  life  which  is  to  come, 
which  is  everlasting.  Some  of  us  seem  to  have  forgotten  the  purpose 
we  had  in  view,  and  to  have  become  content  with  our  search  for  the 
wealth  and  fame  this  life  affords, — in  other  words,  content  with  "chop- 
ping wood." 

FOR  THE  SALVATION  OF  MEN 

One  might  ask :  Why  all  the  activity  we  see  .in  the  Church,  in  the 
ministry  abroad,  in  the  ministry  at  home,  in  the  stakes  and  wards,  in 
the  priesthood  quorums  and  auxiliary  associations,  in  genealogy  and 
temple  work,  in  Church  school  and  seminary  work,  etc.  ?  The  answer 
might  be  briefly  given  thus:  The  salvation  of  man  depends  upon  it. 
It  is  the  work  and  glory  of  God  to  accomplish  the  salvation  of  his 
children,  by  the  plan  of  the  Gospel  which  he  has  revealed.  The 
religious  activities  seen  in  the  Church  and  in  which  we  are  engaged 
are  for  the  purpose,  and  are  assisting  the  Lord  in  the  noblest  work, 
the  most  important  service  in  which  man  may  be  engaged.  If  we 
be  not  called  officially  into  the  service,  there  are  many  things  we 
can  do  of  our  own  volition  which  will  contribute  to  our  own  happiness 
and  salvation  and  to  the  happiness  and  salvation  of  others.  Napoleon 
Hill  says :  "Render  some  useful  service  each  day,  for  which  you  do  not 
expect  any  pay.  This  will  bring  you  happiness  such  as  people  who  work 
for  pay  only,  never  enjoy." 

A  FULNESS  OF  JOY 

In  II  Nephi  2 :25  we  read,  "Adam  fell  that  men  might  be ;  and  men 
are  that  they  might  have  joy."  To  receive  a  fulness  of  joy  here  and  here- 
after, as  intended  of  the  Lord,  we  must  live  the  righteous  Christ-like  life ; 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  render  effectual  service  to  God  and  to  our  fellow  men.  The  righteous 
life  inspires  love  of  God  and  of  fellow  men  and  opens  the  avenue  of  com- 
munication and  help  from  the  Lord,  which  is  so  necessary  to  success 
in  effectual  service. 

HAPPINESS  THROUGH  OBEDIENCE  TO  GOD'S  WORD 

Another  potent  means  of  assisting  the  Church  and  the  work  of  the 
Lord,  and  which  is  conducive  to  individual  happiness  and  salvation,  is  to 
obey  the  word  of  the  Lord  wherein  he  has  expressed  his  will  by  direct 
revelation,  that  we  abstain  from  the  excessive  use  of  meat,  and  from  the 
use  of  tea,  coffee,  tobacco  and  all  intoxicating  drinks.  If  the  Latter-day 
Saints  were  to  strictly  observe  this  one  revelation,  as  interpreted  by  the 
Church  authorities,  they  would  be  a  healthier,  happier,  and  a  more  pros- 
perous people  than  they  are  today.  They  would  have  more  money  with 
which  to  pay  their  debts,  and  for  tithes  and  offerings.  The  money  paid 
for  tea,  coffee,  tobacco  and  liquors  goes,  for  the  most  part,  out  of  the 
country  I  understand;  and  it  means  a  tremendous  drain  which  is  felt 
directly  or  indirectly  by  a  large  percentage  of  the  people.  From  every 
viewpoint  it  is  unprofitable  to  violate  the  Word  of  Wisdom  or  any  other 
word  of  the  Lord.  "Obedience  is  better  than  sacrifice ;  to  hearken  than 
the  fat  of  rams." 

I  have  tried  in  a  brief  way  to  emphasize  the  importance  of  paying 
an  honest  tithing  and  of  being  liberal  in  the  giving  of  our  offerings ;  also, 
of  rendering  acceptable  service  to  God  and  to  our  fellowmen.  It  is  im- 
portant, also  that  we  keep  all  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  and  faith- 
fully do  his  will  in  all  things.   May  the  Lord  help  us  so  to  do. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Yesterday  we  listened  to  the  members  of  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church  preaching,  over  a  great  broadcast,  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to 
the  children  of  men.  The  extent  to  which  their  words  reached  I  am  not 
prepared  to  say,  but  as  far  as  the  broadcasting  system  carried,  those  who 
were  able  to  listen  heard  the  Gospel  message.  To  me  it  was  a  wonderful 
thing  and  I  am  sure  that  all  those  who  are  here  attending  this  conference 
must  have  been  convinced  that  the  Lord  is  continuing  to  build  construc- 
tively in  the  earth  and  that  his  Church  is  making  progress  and  is  grow- 
ing rapidly. 

I  think  that  not  before  have  the  songs  of  Zion  been  sung  by  the  entire 
congregation  from  this  building  over  the  broadcasting  system  of  the 
nation.  This  Tabernacle  is  naturally  made  for  such  an  event.  I  almost 
wish  that  I  could  have  heard  the  rendition  from  some  far  distant  point, 
for  the  thousands  of  voices  must  have  gone  over  the  air  with  fine  effect. 

When  Brigham  Young,  under  the  direction  of  the  Lord,  planned  this 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


81 


building,  I  am  sure  he  thought  little  about  such  a  feature  as  we  have  just 
witnessed.  It  is  doubtful  if  he  could  see  at  that  time  what  might  and 
would  happen,  how  the  word  of  the  Lord  could  be  preached  from  these 
mountains  to  all  parts  of  the  world. 

I  wonder  if  those  men  who  so  carefully  laid  the  great  Gospel  plan 
in  foreign  lands  had  a  vision  of  such  things  in  the  beginning  of  their 
work.  My  mind  recalls  an  experience  that  we  are  told  President  Wilf  ord 
Woodruff  had  when  he  was  in  England,  preaching  the  Gospel,  building 
up  the  Church,  and  gathering  members  to  this  country.  He  listened  con- 
stantly to  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  A  great  missionary  was  he,  as  we  all 
know  from  reading  his  history.  One  day  he  felt  impressed  to  go  south, 
and  it  is  said  that  he  boarded  a  conveyance  and  rode  south  eighty  miles, 
when  he  felt  impressed  to  stop.  He  got  off  the  conveyance  and  began 
to  work  in  that  vicinity,  and  as  a  result  he  gathered  some  eight  hundred 
members  of  the  Church  in  that  part  of  England.  Practically  all  of  them 
came  to  Zion. 

Thus  were  his  labors  and  the  labors  of  others  of  the  early  mission- 
aries mightily  blessed.  Through  their  preaching  they  reaped  a  rich  har- 
vest of  souls.  Today  the  elders  in  the  field  are  giving  just  as  faithful 
service  and  bearing  just  as  fervent  testimonies,  but  new  methods  are 
employed  and  new  agencies  are  introduced  to  carry  the  Gospel  to  the 
nations. 

The  Lord  can  do  his  work  only  as  men  and  women  will  apply  them- 
selves ;  he  does  it  through  his  servants  in  the  earth ;  he  directs  his  work 
through  all  the  members  of  the  Church  who  are  willing  to  serve.  If 
President  Wilford  Woodruff  had  not  been  listening,  if  his  mind  had  not 
been  in  tune  with  the  Lord,  he  never  would  have  heard  the  whisper  that 
came  to  him  to  go  south  to  a  certain  place  where  he  was  told  to  get!  off 
the  stage  and  begin  his  work.   His  heart  was  in  tune  with  God. 

Brigham  Young's  heart  was  in  tune  with  God  when  he  built  this 
building  and  laid  plans  for  one  of  the  greatest  things  the  world  has  ever 
seen. 

We  read  in  the  scriptures  about  the  prophets  of  old  who  spoke  of- 
the  Gospel  being  preached  from  the  mountain-tops,  that  the  word  of  the 
Lord  would  go  forth  from  there.  How  fully  that  prediction  may  yet  be 
fulfilled !  No  one  can  realize  yet  what  may  come  as  a  result  of  it,  how 
far-reaching  it  may  be.  A  few  years  ago  no  one  heard  of  the  great 
broadcasting  system  that  we  have  now  among  us.  It  was  not  even 
dreamed  of.    Yet  how  simple  and  easy  it  appears  to  be. 

The  President  of  the  Church,  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord,  the  leader 
of  Latter-day  Israel  and  those  who  are  associated  with  him,  can  now 
send  the  Gospel  out  over  the  world,  telling  it  to  the  people,  telling  men 
and  women  of  the  beauty  of  it,  of  the  great  plan  of  our  Father  which 
was  instituted  for  the  purpose  of  reaching  the  hearts  of  the  children  of 
men.  I  do  not  know  how  others  feel,  but  to  me  this  experience  was  the 
greatest  I  have  ever  had — to  hear  the  singing  and  the  preaching,  and  to 
know  that  it  was  going,  perhaps,  to  the  farther  ends  of  the  earth. 

I  was  greatly  impressed  by  that  fine  address  by  President  Grant  in 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  first  session  of  this  conference.  It  indicated  the  progress  being  made 
by  the  Church — a  progress  which  has  been  marked  from  the  beginning, 
so  far  as  I  am  able  to  observe  from  reading  and  from  personally  witness- 
ing events. 

There  has  always  been  the  call  of  the  President,  the  preaching  of  the 
Gospel,  the  voice  of  the  Lord  unto  the  children  of  men.  The  Lord  pleads 
with  men,  does  everything  under  the  shining  sun  to  get  men  to  believe. 
He  calls  men  to  preach  the  words  that  he  gave  while  he  was  in  the  earth. 
He  said  upon  one  occasion :  "My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his  that  sent 
me.  If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether 
it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself."  That  was  the  word  of  the 
Lord,  given  by  him  as  it  came  from  his  Father.    He  also  said : 

Whosoever  heareth  these  sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them,  I  will 
liken  him  unto  a  wise  man,  which  built  his  house  upon  a  rock : 

And  the  rain  descended,  and  the  floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew, 
and  beat  upon  that  house ;  and  it  fell  not :  for  it  was  founded  upon  a  rock. 

And  every  one  that  heareth  these  sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them 
not,  shall  be  likened  unto  a  foolish  man,  which  built  his  house  upon  the 
sand : 

And  the  rain  descended,  and  the  floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and 
beat  upon  that  house ;  and  it  fell :  and  great  was  the  fall  of  it. 

The  Savior  laid  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation  in  the  earth.  He  taught 
it  unto  the  children  of  men,  and  he  gave  his  life  for  it.  He  revealed  it 
anew  in  your  day  and  mine ;  he  came  unto  the  Prophet  Joseph!  Smith, 
and  spoke  unto  him  as  one  man  speaks  unto  another.  God  our  Eternal 
Father  introduced  the  Son,  and  he  laid  the  foundation  upon  which  the 
children  of  men  may  build,  upon  which  they  may  know  whether  this  is  the 
work  of  God  or  the  work  of  men.  He  has  given  his  word  by  prophets 
from  then  until  now ;  and  especially  during  the  past  hundred  years,  has 
the  Lord  specifically  spoken  to  men.  What  a  marvelous  thing  is  the 
history  of  this  Church. 

There  is  no  other  such  gathering  in  the  earth  as  this  assembly,  there 
is  no  such  relationship  among  men  and  women,  as  exists  among  Latter- 
day  Saints,  no  such  an  organization  far  or  near.  And  now,  through 
the  providence  of  God  our  Father,  thousands  of  people  who  are  not  able 
to  come  here  may  hear  the  voices  of  the  servants  of  the  living  God,  and 
may  know  the  powerful  message  that  comes  from  those  who  are  endowed 
from  on  high  to  lead,  guide  and  direct  the  affairs  of  the  people  of  God 
in  the  earth. 

When  we  think  of  the  example  that  has  been  set  by  the  leadership 
of  this  Church,  the  plan  of  government  that  has  existed  from  the  begin- 
ning, we  cannot  but  appreciate  the  hand  of  the  Lord  in  these  things.  The 
foundation  that  was  laid  by  the  Prophet  and  his  associates  has  led 
thousands  of  others  to  build  upon  that  same  foundation.  They  are  not 
swerved  from  their  path;  they  know  the  voice  of  the  risen  Redeemer, 
and  they  obey  it. 

The  establishment  of  the  people  in  these  mountains,  the  organiza- 
tions of  the  Church  in  the  stakes  and  wards,  presided  over  by  men  of 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


83 


God,  constitute  the  Church  that  our  Eternal  Father  had  in  mind  when  his 
Son  preached  that  it  should  be  built  upon  a  rock.  These  men  are  not 
swerved  when  the  winds  of  adversity  blow ;  they  know  how  to  weather 
the  storm.  We  find  them  always  solidly  and  squarely  established  in  the 
revelations  of  God  our  Father ;  while,  on  the  other  hand,  those  who  yield 
to  temptation,  who  will  not  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  are  shaken 
as  a  reed  in  water,  and  many  fall,  because  their  foundation  is  not  secure. 

This  conference  will  be  a  great  epoch  in  the  history  of  this  Church. 
The  great  anniversary  today  of  the  organization  of  the  Church,  the  ex- 
periences of  yesterday,  and  the  inspirational  sessions  on  Saturday  add 
another  great  chapter  to  the  program  of  God  our  Father  by  which  men 
and  women  may  know  that  those  who  are  appointed  to  direct  his  affairs 
on  the  earth  are  at  the  helm,  that  they  are  watching  over  the  flock,  that 
they  are  constantly  building  and  keeping  in  harmony  and  in  tune  with 
the  work  that  has  been  established  by  our  Father  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  who  is  a  prophet  of  the  living  God,  and  was,  and  always  will  be. 
Those  who  have  succeeded  him  were  and  are  likewise  prophets  of  God. 

May  we  remember  the  words  we  hear  and  carry  them  back  to  our 
people,  I  pray  in  Jesus'  name,  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  hope  the  Lord  will  give  me  words  to  express  what  is  in  my  heart 
to  say  to  you  this  morning.  I  desire  to  call  your  attention  to  the  parable 
of  the  Master  called  the  "Lost  Sheep,"  which  is  recorded  in  the  15th 
Chapter  of  Luke.    The  chapter  commences  with  the  following  words: 

Then  drew  near  unto  him  all  the  publicans  and  sinners  for  to  hear  him. 
And  the  Pharisees  and  scribes  murmured,  saying,  This  man  receiveth 
sinners,  and  eateth  with  them. 

And  he  spake  this  parable  unto  them,  saying, 

What  man  of  you,  having  an  hundred  sheep,  if  he  lose  one  of  them, 
doth  not  leave  the  ninety  and  nine  in  the  wilderness,  and  go  after  that 
which  is  lost,  until  he  find  it? 

And  when  he  hath  found  it,  he  layeth  it  on  his  shoulders,  rejoicing. 
And  when  he  cometh  home,  he  calleth  together  his  friends  and  neigh- 
bors, saying  unto  them,  Rejoice  with  me;  for  I  have  found  my  sheep  which 
was  lost. 

I  say  unto  you,  that  likewise  joy  shall  be  in  heaven  over  one  sinner 
that  repenteth. 

The  sinners,  and  the  publicans  who  were  largely  the  officials  of 
the  Roman  government  and  mostly  tax  gatherers,  did  not  live  up  to  the 
strict  interpretation  of  the  doctrines  of  the  Pharisees.  In  my  opinion, 
the  Master  in  giving  this  parable  to  the  scribes  and  Pharisees  intended 
to  impress  them  with  the  necessity  of  looking  after  their  lost  sheep, 
the  publicans  and  sinners. 

The  use  of  parables  was  common  among  Jewish  teachers.  Jesus 
was  but  following  the  custom  of  the  time  in  using  a  descriptive  allegory 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


founded  on  a  real  scene  or  event  such  as  occurs  in  nature  and  human 
life,  with  a  moral  or  religious  application.  The  Master's  parables  were 
simple  and  effective.  He  talked  in  the  language  of  the  people.  When 
in  wheat  fields  he  spoke  of  wheat  and  tares  and  the  mustard  seed.  When 
on  the  shores  of  the  sea  of  Galilee,  he  spoke  of  fish.  When  in  Judea 
he  spoke  of  sheep. 

A  flock  of  sheep  usually  numbered  one  hundred.  The  shepherd 
is  portrayed  as  leaving  the  ninety  and  nine,  safely  in  the  fold,  while  he 
went  in  search  of  the  one  that  had  strayed.  He  rejoiced  in  finding  it. 
When  he  returned  home,  he  called  together  his  friends  and  neighbors, 
and  asked  them  to  rejoice  with  him,  for  he  had  found  his  sheep  which 
was  lost. 

The  Master  discloses  the  real  purpose  of  this  parable  when  he  said : 
"And  I  say  unto  you,  that  likewise  joy  shall  be  in  heaven  over  one  sinner 
that  repenteth."  He  brings  to  our  attention  the  duty  of  servants  of 
the  Master  in  all  ages.  The  Master  deemed  it  of  great  importance  to  go 
after  those  who  had  strayed  from  the  fold  of  Christ.  There  is  need  for 
the  application  of  this  parable  in  our  day. 

One  of  the  objectives  of  the  Church  is  to  perfect  the  lives  of  those 
who  have  accepted  the  truth.  This  is  a  great  responsibility.  There  are 
among  us  in  every  ward  and  stake  in  the  Church,  members  who  have 
become  indifferent  to  the  teachings  of  the  Gospel  and  who  for  one  reason 
or  another  absent  themselves  from  quorum  and  sacrament  meetings. 
Recently  I  examined  the  records  of  the  Church  and  was  alarmed  to 
find  that  these  missing  sheep  had  increased  by  5000  last  year.  It  is  our 
duty  to  do  everything  possible  to  bring  them  back  into  active  participation 
in  the  Church.  We  are  our  "brother's  keeper"  and  should  feel  keenly 
this  trust.  These  neglectful  members  should  be  visited  and  labored 
with,  with  all  diligence  and  with  patience.  They  should  be  encouraged 
and  again  brought  to  see  and  understand  the  beauties  of  the  Gospel  and 
the  benefits  of  active  Church  membership. 

I  recently  heard  of  an  individual  who  was  indignant  when  asked 
some  questions  about  his  salvation.  He  had  not  objected  to  the  brakeman 
on  the  train  asking  where  he  was  going.  He  felt  the  brakeman  inquired 
of  him  in  order  to  save  him  from  a  possible  mistake.  The  man  who 
asked  about  his  salvation  had  the  same  motive,  only  the  case  was  a  great 
deal  more  serious.  Yes,  some  you  will  visit  will  not  take  kindly  at 
first  to  your  interest  in  them,  but  if  labored  with  perseveringly  and  in  all 
meekness,  they  will  later  call  you  blessed. 

A  mother  of  several  boys  had  difficulty  in  getting  her  boys  to  keep 
neat  and  tidy  and  she  had  to  give  them  personal  inspection  before  they 
left  for  school.  She  realized  that  they  had  neglected  to  look  at  them- 
selves in  the  mirror.  She  hung  a  beautiful  mirror  in  the  front  hall, 
where  they  could  not  help  but  note  their  appearance.  She  now  has  no 
need  to  inspect  them,  for  the  glass  tells  them  how  they  look.  For  after 
all,  the  mother  added  sagely,  "I  think  one  of  the  principal  steps  toward 
reforming  people  is  to  get  them  to  look  at  themselves."  With  tact  and 
understanding,  can  we  help  these  indifferent  members  to  see  themselves 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


85 


as  others  see  them  and  through  our  earnest  efforts  and  kindliness  bring 
them  back  into  service  in  the  Church? 

Are  we  as  officers  of  the  priesthood  quorums  of  the  Church  doing 
our  full  duty  in  encouraging  neglectful  members  to  attend  their  meetings  ? 
Are  ward  teachers  taking  their  responsibility  seriously  and  with  kindness 
and  tact  endeavoring  to  bring  disinterested  members  back  to  activity 
in  the  Church?  As  Bishops  who  preside  over  the  Aaronic  Priesthood 
of  the  wards,  are  you  watching  so  carefully  over  your  flock  that  none 
in  the  future  will  be  lost  or  go  astray  ?  Are  you  making  a  conscientious 
effort  to  bring  back  those  men  and  boys  holding  an  office  in  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood,  who  because  of  indifference,  lack  of  home  training  or  the 
allurements  of  the  world,  have  drifted  away?  It  is  our  duty  to  labor 
with  them  persistently  and  bring  them  back  into  the  fold.  Are  the 
auxiliary  officers  of  the  Church  giving  attention  to  those  who  should  be 
enrolled  as  members  of  their  organizations?  As  individuals,  are  we 
taking  a  brotherly,  sisterly  or  neighborly  interest  in  those  about  us  who 
do  not  enjoy  the  full  benefits  and  blessings  which  the  Church  extends 
to  its  active  and  faithful  members? 

Are  these  members  grateful  for  your  interest  in  them?  Let  me 
cite  to  you  some  cases  which  have  come  to  my  personal  attention.  To 
my  office  came  a  man,  who  for  twenty  years  had  done  nothing  in  the 
Church.  Through  the  missionary  work  of  the  Bishop  of  that  ward, 
this  man  was  brought  back  to  service  in  the  Church.  He  realized  the 
many  years  he  had  lost.  As  he  stood  outside  the  Logan  Temple,  with 
his  wife  and  children,  having  had  them  sealed  to  him  that  day,  he  said, 
his  heart  full  to  overflowing:  "I  wish  my  Bishop  had  given  a  little 
attention  to  me  when  I  was  a  lad." 

I  was  deeply  impressed  with  the  story  of  a  man  in  one  of  the  stakes 
of  Zion  at  a  stake  conference.  He  stated  that  through  the  insistence 
of  the  members  of  his  quorum,  he  was  urged  to  attend  his  meetings.  At 
first  he  was  reluctant.  Then,  since  they  wanted  him  to  come  so  much, 
he  decided  to  please  them.  He  became  interested  and  active,  and  now 
has  a  renewal  of  his  testimony  of  the  Gospel.  He  has  taken  his  wife  and 
children  to  the  temple.  His  heart  is  filled  with  gratitude  because  the 
members  of  his  quorum  had  interested  themselves  in  him  and  labored 
with  him  and  brought  him  back  into  church  activity.  There  were  tears 
in  his  eyes  as  he  told  of  his  joy. 

The  Master  said  there  was  great  rejoicing  over  one  who  repenteth. 
There  are  three  who  rejoice,  when,  figuratively  speaking,  a  sheep  which 
has  strayed  is  brought  back  to  the  fold :  the  individual  who  has  strayed 
away,  he  who  is  responsible  for  his  reclamation  and  "likewise  there 
shall  be  joy  in  heaven  over  one  sinner  that  repenteth." 

In  this  day,  hear  the  word  of  the  Lord  regarding  the  worth  of 
souls,  and  the  joy  of  bringing  souls  unto  him ;  as  recorded  in  the  18th 
Section  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  which  was  men- 
tioned by  President  Grant  in  his  opening  address : 

Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of  God; 

For,  behold,  the  Lord  your  Redeemer  suffered  death  in  the  flesh; 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


wherefore  he  suffered  the  pain  of  all  men,  that  all  men  might  repent  and 
come  unto  him. 

And  he  hath  risen  from  the  dead,  that  he  might  bring  all  men  unto 
him,  on  conditions  of  repentance. 

And  how  great  is  his  joy  in  the  soul  that  repenteth! 

Wherefore,  you  are  called  to  cry  repentance  unto  this  people. 

And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your  days  in  crying  repentance 
unto  this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto  me,  how  great  shall 
be  your  joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father! 

And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great  with  one  soul  that  you  have  brought 
unto  me  into  the  kingdom  of  my  Father,  how  great  will  be  your  joy  if 
you  should  bring  many  souls  unto  me! 

I  sincerely  plead  with  you  to  give  this  matter  of  the  indifferent 
members  of  the  Church  serious  reflection  and  attention.  Whether  it  be 
friend,  neighbor  or  relative,  by  long-suffering,  meekness  and  patience, 
win  their  respect  and  love  and  help  them  to  again  see  the  beauties  of 
the  Gospel.  Bring  them  back  into  the  fold  that  they  might  again  enjoy 
the  blessings  of  the  Gospel  and  be  numbered  actively  with  the  Church 
of  Christ. 

To  those  of  you  who  are  within  the  sound  of  my  voice  who  may  have 
become  indifferent  to  the  teachings  of  the  Church,  I  urge  you  to  take 
inventory  of  yourselves  this  day.  Consider  where  your  course  in  life 
is  taking  you.  Is  it  bringing  you  happiness  and  contentment  and  peace 
of  soul  such  as  does  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  or  is  it  bringing  you 
only  passing  pleasures?  Are  your  hearts  set  upon  the  things  of  this 
world,  the  money,  position,  good  times  which  it  brings,  or  upon  the 
Kingdom  of  Heaven  with  its  rich  treasures? 

I  personally  know  the  joy  and  satisfaction  which  conies  in  this 
missionary  labor;  the  joy  of  seeing  friend  and  relative  become  active 
and  useful  in  the  Church,  after  years  of  indifference,  and  I  rejoice  with 
them  in  their  blessings.  My  testimony  is  that  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  found  the  restored  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
I  know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
a  prophet  of  God.  I  know  that  the  Gospel  is  the  plan  of  life  and  salva- 
tion unto  all  who  accept  it  and  are  faithful  and  obedient.  May  we  live 
the  Gospel  and  may  we  ever  be  diligent  in  teaching  it,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  Choir  and  the  congregation  joined  in  the  singing  of  the  hymn, 
"We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet." 

"A  Poor  Wayfaring  Man  of  Grief,"  was  sung  by  the  Choir,  solo 
by  Emma  Lucy  Gates  Bowen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  may  be  of  interest  to  those  who  do  not  already  know  it  that  this 
song  of  fourteen  verses,  by  Montgomery,  was  sung  in  Carthage  Jail  by 
John  Taylor ;  after  he  had  finished  singing  it  he  was  asked  to  sing  it 
again.    He  replied  that  he  did  not  feel  like  singing,  he  was  oppressed 


ELDER  REIN  HOLD  ST  OOF 


87 


with  a  sense  of  coming  disaster;  but  at  Hyrum's  request  he  sang  the 
hymn  again. 

Soon  after  he  was  through  singing  it  the  second  time,  the  shooting 
started  that  ended  in  the  death  of  the  Prophet  and  the  Patriarch,  and 
the  wounding  of  President  Taylor. 

ELDER  REINHOLD  STOOF 

Former  President  of  the  South  American  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  you  will  kindly  excuse  the  poor  English  of 
a  foreigner.  Members  and  friends  of  the  far  countries  under  the  South- 
ern Cross  in  Argentine  and  Brazil  extend  to  you  their  heartiest  greetings. 
They  rejoice  in  the  light  that  went  out  from  Zion  and  came  to  them ; 
and  you  in  Zion  can  be  proud  of  your  faithful  members  in  the  far  south- 
ern countries.  There  has  not  been  a  missionary  in  South  America  who 
has  not  appreciated  the  interesting  pioneer  labor  among  the  Latin-Ameri- 
can people  in  Argentine  and  among  the  Brazilian  colonies  of  German 
blood. 

Several  missionaries  who  have  labored  in  South  America  have  told 
me  that  if  circumstances  would  allow  the  Church  to  establish  a  mission  in 
Italy  or  Spain  they  would  gladly  go  there  and  preach  the  Gospel  to  the 
fine  people  of  those  countries. 

Argentine,  like  the  United  States,  is  a  melting-pot  for  the  nations. 
The  majority  of  those  who  emigrated  into  South  America  are  from  the 
southern  countries  of  Europe — Italy  and  Spain — so  that  the  character 
of  the  Argentines  is  that  of  a  real  Latin  people.  The  majority  of  our 
members  in  Argentine  are  Italians  and  Spaniards.  We  have  a  few  Ger- 
mans also  there. 

Our  experiences  with  the  Latin- American  people  with  regard  to 
teaching  the  Gospel  are  very  encouraging.  There  may  be  some  who 
think  that  the  ideal  field  of  labor  in  which  to  find  the  scattered  blood  of 
Israel  is  the  northern  countries.  For  them  it  may  be  a  consolation  to  know 
that  a  few  centuries  after  Christ's  birth  tribes  from  the  north  invaded 
Spain  and  Italy,  and  it  may  be  that  their  remnants  are  the  ones  who 
today  follow  the  voice  of  the  Good  Shepherd.  The  fact  remains  that  a 
great  harvest  will  be  brought  in  in  Argentine  among  the  Latin-American 
people.    I  have  no  doubt  in  my  mind  about  that. 

I  am  very  glad  that  the  leading  brethren  of  the  Church  have  sent  to 
South  America  two  very  fine  men  to  preside  over  the  two  missions  there ; 
and  I  am  sure  that  they  will  spread  the  Gospel  in  a  most  wonderful  way 
in  those  countries. 

It  was  my  good  fortune  to  be  blessed  and  sustained  by  the  help  of 
very  faithful  and  capable  missionaries,  and  this  same  blessing  will  be 
enjoyed  by  my  two  successors  in  South  America.  The  people  in  South 
America  are  surely  a  wonderful  people.  The  example  of  the  missionaries 
has  exerted  a  wonderful  influence  in  the  conversion  of  people  to  the 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Gospel.  We  had  several  friends  who  could  neither  read  nor  write ;  they 
could  not  prove  the  truthfulness  of  our  message  by  studying  the  scrip- 
tures as  they  could  not  read  them,  but  the  example  of  the  missionaries 
gave  them  conviction,  and  above  all,  these  people  lived  the  Gospel  before 
their  baptism. 

Weeks  and  months  before  their  baptism  they  kept  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  they  even  paid  their  tithing  honestly  without  being  urged  to  do 
so,  and  by  living  the  Gospel  they  received  a  strong  testimony,  were  con- 
verted and  were  baptized,  and  are  some  of  our  most  wonderful  members 
in  the  Argentine. 

It  is  my  opinion  that  because  of  the  integrity  and  faithfulness  of 
those  members,  the  Lord  has  blessed  them  with  many  manifestations. 

I  testify  unto  you  that  I  have  never  seen  in  my  life  before  the  power 
of  the  priesthood  manifested  in  such  a  marvelous  way  as  in  South  Amer- 
ica. I  testify  unto  you  that  I  witnessed  the  gift  of  interpretation  of  ton- 
gues, and  the  gift  of  healing  the  sick  in  cases  where  doctors  could  not 
help  them.  I  can  testify  that  the  eyesight  was  restored  to  a  blind  young 
Portuguese.  I  have  a  written  statement  in  my  possession  in  which  that 
young  Portuguese  said :  "I  was  willing  to  throw  myself  before  the  wheels 
of  a  wagon  in  the  street  to  be  killed,  the  doctors  could  not  give  me  any 
hope."   But  the  power  of  the  priesthood  restored  his  sight. 

I  never  shall  forget  that  evening  when  we  were  called  to  the  home  of 
an  Italian  family  whose  daughter  was  very  sick ;  that  family  had  fasted 
and  prayed  an  entire  day,  following  the  advice  of  a  good  Italian  member 
of  the  Church.  It  was  a  strange  sickness  that  had  overcome  the  daughter. 
She  slept  for  four  days  and  could  not  eat  nor  speak,  and  then,  after  a  day 
of  fasting  and  prayer,  the  parents  called  the  elders  to  administer  to  her. 
When  we  entered  the  room  the  daughter  opened  her  lips  for  the  first  time 
for  days,  her  eyes  being  closed,  and  she  said  in  a  low  but  distinct  voice : 
"A  supreme  being  has  entered." 

The  young  elder,  a  very  ambitious,  fine  Idaho  boy,  was  called  to 
anoint  her,  and  he  was  so  much  astounded  when  he  heard  those  words 
that  he  forgot  the  name  of  the  young  lady  and  it  had  to  be  repeated  to 
him.  We  pronounced  a  blessing  upon  the  head  of  that  girl  and  rebuked 
the  power  of  the  Destroyer.  We  spoke  comfort  to  her  parents,  and 
according  to  the  promise  given  by  the  servants  of  the  Lord  through  the 
power  of  the  priesthood,  her  full  health  was  restored.  She  did  not 
remember  anything  that  had  happened  to  her.  I  do  not  know  what  her 
spiritual  eyes  had  beheld,  what  supreme  being  had  entered  with  us,- — 
no  missionary  is  a  supreme  being,  we  know  that,  but  we  cannot  say  who 
was  at  our  side.  We  have  no  doubt  that  a  heavenly  being  was  there  to 
give  strength  and  testimony  to  the  parents.  The  power  of  the  Lord  is 
upon  the  earth,  the  power  of  the  priesthood  is  here,  and  that  power  calls 
to  its  aid  even  heavenly  beings  when  necessary. 

I  am  thankful  for  the  testimony  that  I  have  received,  and  that  others 
have  seen  the  power  of  the  priesthood  manifest  in  such  a  marvelous  way, 
and  I  am  glad  that  these  blessings  have  been  given  unto  those  wonderful 
people  in  Argentine  and  Brazil.   They  are  faithful  and  strong. 


ELDER  JAMES  M.  KIRKHAM 


89 


I  remember  one  fine  missionary,  a  very  capable  young  man,  who  was 
about  to  leave  his  mission  field  because  of  the  lack  of  finances,  but  it  was 
not  necessary  for  him  to  leave,  a  little  Italian  couple  took  care  of  every- 
thing. They  gave  him  shelter,  they  gave  him  to  eat,  and  provided  every- 
thing for  him.  Later  this  same  faithfulness  was  manifested  in  their  con- 
tribution of  a  house  and  lot  in  Buenos  Aires  to  the  Church  for  use  as 
a  chapel.  This  is  one  of  the  evidences  of  the  faithfulness  of  those  people. 
The  servants  of  the  Lord  can  preach  without  hindrance  in  those  countries 
of  South  America.  The  cry  of  Freedom,  Freedom,  Freedom,  rings 
throughout  the  wonderful  nation  of  Argentine.  Those  people  love  free- 
dom, they  grant  freedom  to  everyone,  and  so  it  is  in  all  the  republics 
of  South  America.  In  my  opinion  it  is  a  wonderful  field  of  labor  for  the 
people. 

A  great  harvest  is  waiting  for  the  Church  in  South  America.  I  have 
no  doubt  in  my  mind  regarding  that.  The  Lord  gives  me  that  testimony. 
God  bless  those  far  countries  in  the  south — the  home  country  of  my 
children.  God  bless  my  South  America,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  M.  KIRKHAM 

President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 

I  pray  for  divine  help  while  I  shall  stand  before  you. 

I  am  glad  to  bring  to  you  greetings  from  the  East  Central  States 
mission.  I  can  honestly  say  in  reporting  our  mission  to  you  that 
what  this  good  brother  has  just  said  about  South  America  has  been 
repeated  many  times  during  the  past  winter  among  the  young  mis- 
sionaries who  are  laboring  in  our  mission  field.  God  has  manifested 
his  power,  and  many  are  the  blessings  that  have  come  to  our  good 
people  through  the  priesthood  and  the  faith  of  the  elders  and  the 
members  of  the  Church 

We  are  living  in  an  unusual  day ;  in  a  day  when  the  Lord  is 
making  evident  his  power.  In  the  mission  where  I  live,  we  are  at  the 
present  time  experiencing  unusual  conditions,  particularly  in  regard 
to  the  great  floods  that  have  come  from  the  Ohio  river  and  many  of 
the  other  rivers  that  empty  into  this  great  stream.  Because  of  the 
high  waters  of  the  Ohio  the  streams  that  enter  into  it  back  up,  and  as 
a  result  great  areas  of  land  are  flooded.  It  is  interesting,  I  am  sure, 
to  know  that  river  boats  have  gone  up  the  streets  of  Cincinnati,  that 
in  man)'  places  the  water  was  six  and  eight  feet  above  normal  condi- 
tions,— I  mean  that  over  the  main  highways  in  some  parts  of  that 
country  there  was  that  depth  of  water.  However,  I  do  not  know  of 
any  serious  handicap  to  any  of  our  members  except  the  loss,  possibly, 
of  some  of  their  property.  I  recall  that  the  day  we  left  to  come  here 
one  of  the  elders  said,  "I  am  mailing  you  this  letter  by  way  of  row- 
boat  from  the  second  story  of  the  building.  We  have  been  in  here 
for  three  days." 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  have  been  greatly  impressed  by  these  conditions  and  I  would 
like  you  people  to  read  the  sixty-first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  and  make  your  own  deductions  as  to  the  curse  that  was 
placed  upon  the  waters.  Not  only  have  we  been  troubled  with 
waters  but  we  have  had  tornadoes.  And  as  we  came  here  we  passed 
through  a  great  dust  storm.  It  seems  to  me  that  we  are  living  in  an 
unusual  day. 

I  would  like  to  tell  you  something  in  regard  to  this  wonderful 
experience  that  we  had  yesterday.  Immediately  upon  receipt  of  in- 
formation about  this  broadcast  we  sent  word  to  every  branch,  to 
every  elder  in  our  mission,  suggesting  to  them  that  they  provide  some 
way  so  all  could  listen  in.  Saturday  there  came  to  me  a  letter  that 
had  been  forwarded  from  a  little  town  in  the  hills  of  Tennessee,  tell- 
ing me  that  they  had  borrowed  a  radio  to  install  in  their  little  church, 
which  is  about  twenty-four  by  thirty-two  feet  in  size,  and  they 
planned  to  gather  there  that  day  so  they  could  listen  to  the  prophets 
of  the  Lord  when  they  spoke. 

We  are  making  a  great  number  of  friends  in  unusual  ways.  I 
would  like  to  refer  to  one  case,  emphasizing  what  has  been  said  in 
regard  to  the  spirit  and  power  that  is  manifest  by  our  beloved  presi- 
dent. President  Grant  with  Brother  George  Albert  Smith  visited 
Louisville  a  short  time  ago,  and  while  there  they  visited  that  modern 
institution,  the  American  Printing  House  for  the  Blind,  where  the 
Book  of  Mormon  was  printed  in  Braille.  I  visted  this  same  place 
about  the  second  or  third  day  after  they  had  been  there,  and  I  was 
pleased  at  the  influence,  the  most  favorable  impression  that  had  been 
left  with  those  people  during  the  visit  of  President  Grant  and  Brother 
Smith.  There  is  something  about  these  brethren  that  no  matter 
where  they  go  they  leave  their  impression  and  they  leave  something 
that  is  outstanding  and  unusual. 

I  would  like  to  express  to  you  my  testimony  in  regard  to  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  It  is  one  of  the  most  wonderful  books  that  we  have 
in  the  world  today.  If  I  were  bold  enough  I  might  say  to  you  that  I 
think  many  of  us  are  not  reading  it  just  as  often  as  we  should.  I  know 
it  is  taught  in  our  Sunday  Schools  and  Seminary  classes  and  in  other 
such  ways ;  but  I  am  thinking  of  that  busy  mother  and  that  hurried 
father  in  their  labors.  I  fear  that  they  do  not  read  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon as  often  as  they  should  do.  My  testimony  to  you  is  this,  that 
it  is  divine  and  it  comes  from  God,  that  it  is  one  of  the  greatest  wit- 
nesses that  we  have  of  the  divinity  of  this  work  and  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  If  you  want  to  know  where  we  came  from,  why  we 
are  here,  and  where  we  are  going,  no  book  that  I  know  of  will  tell 
you  in  such  plainness  as  does  the  Book  of  Mormon.  We  should  read 
it  more  often.  I  am  sure  that  the  promise  which  is  given  in  it  will  be 
fulfilled,  namely,  that  those  who  ask  God  with  a  prayerful  heart  if 
the  things  therein  written  are  true,  he  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it 
unto  them.  It  has  been  made  manifest  to  a  number  of  people  in  our 
mission  during  the  past  winter. 


ELDER  WILFORD  W.  RICHARDS 


91 


Oh,  I  could  tell  you  testimonies  that  have  come  to  us  this  winter 
of  young  people  and  older  ones  who  have  had  that  promise  fulfilled 
to  them,  and  their  hearts  have  swelled  with  joy  because  of  the  testi- 
mony of  the  Book  of  Mormon  that  has  come  to  them. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  you,  and  that  we  will  live  the  Gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  the  lives  of  our  young  men  and 
women  are  teaching  the  Gospel  just  as  much  as  their  words.  When 
someone  was  talking  the  other  day  about  living  this  Gospel,  I  thought 
of  five  different  places  where  the  missionaries  were  living  this  winter. 
There  will  be  from  one  to  several  members  of  the  families  baptized 
because  of  the  lives,  because  of  the  actions,  because  of  the  teachings 
of  these  young  missionaries  in  the  homes  where  they  have  been  liv- 
ing. We  suggest  to  them  not  to  live  in  a  boarding-house,  but  to  find 
lodging  with  some  family  of  prominence.  They  are  living  in  the  homes 
of  judges,  of  postmasters,  and  of  dentists.  We  are  encouraging  them 
to  go  into  such  places,  because  in  so  doing  they  have  a  most  won- 
derful opportunity  of  preaching  the  Gospel ;  and  by  their  lives  and  by 
their  actions  they  are  doing  it. 

The  Lord  is  blessing  us.  We  need  your  prayers.  We  need  your 
support.  We  need  your  blessings.  And  may  the  Lord  magnify  us 
in  our  work  in  the  eyes  of  the  people  of  the  world,  that  we  may  bring 
souls  to  Christ,  that  we  may  fulfil  the  responsibility  that  is  given 
to  us  to  preach  the  Gospel  in  all  the  world. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  do  this  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  WILFORD  W.  RICHARDS 

President  of  North  Central  States  Mission 

The  music  of  this  conference  has  been  an  inspiration  to  all.  The 
work  of  our  great  Tabernacle  Choir,  the  Hyrum  Stake  Choir  Saturday, 
and  the  Singing  Mothers  today  have  all  been  a  blessing  to  us. 

We  often  find  ourselves  in  the  position  of  children,  seeing  about 
us  the  many  activities  and  movements  of  life,  but  failing  to  recognize 
the  full  significance  of  such  forces  and  movements.  During  this  con- 
ference I  have  been  struggling  to  comprehend  the  value  and  power  of 
this  great  cause  as  it  affects  us  and  the  people  of  the  world. 

For  generations  people  have  taken  an  interest  in  keeping  close  to 
certain  anniversaries.  In  private  life  we  commemorate  births,  marriages 
and  other  important  dates.  In  public  and  social  life  we  have  our  Fourth 
of  July,  Armistice  Day,  Memorial  Day  and  many  others  of  general 
and  local  interest. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  remembers  proudly 
a  number  of  events  which  cluster  around  this  season  of  the  year.  It 
was  in  the  spring  of  1820,  one  hundred  sixteen  years  ago,  that  the  first 
vision  of  this  dispensation  occurred.  On  May  15,  1829,  one  hundred 
seven  years  ago,  the  Prophet,  John  the  Baptist,  appeared  in  answer  to 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


prayer  and  restored  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  It  was  but  a  short  time 
following  this  that  the  personal  associates  of  the  Master  himself,  Peter, 
James  and  John,  appeared  and  restored  the  Melchizedek  priesthood. 
It  was  on  March  27,  1836,  that  the  Kirtland  Temple  was  dedicated,  and 
a  week  later,  on  April  3,  when  those  great  experiences  recorded  in  Section 
110  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  occurred,  when  the  Savior  himself, 
together  with  Moses,  Elias  and  Elijah,  appeared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  his  associate,  Oliver  Cowdery,  and  left  their  particular  au- 
thority and  blessings. 

On  March  17,  1842,  the  great  woman's  organization  of  the  Church 
came  into  being.  It  was  at  this  time  that  the  Prophet  of  this  dispensation 
turned  the  key  for  women  in  all  the  world. 

One  hundred  and  six  years  ago  today,  April  6,  1830,  under  humble 
conditions  in  Western  New  York  this  Church  was  officially  organized. 
Add  to  these  more  recent  events  the  birth  of  our  Savior  and  his  resur- 
rection some  nineteen  hundred  years  ago  and  we  have  a  collection  of  sig- 
nificant anniversaries  associated  with  this  season  of  the  year  that  are 
most  challenging,  thought  provoking,  and  fundamental. 

As  missionaries  in  the  world,  our  responsibility  is  largely  one  of 
teaching  the  significance  of  these  events,  for  therein  is  contained  the 
message  and  authority  of  the  Gospel.  The  missionaries  of  the  North 
Central  States  mission  are  attempting  to  do  this.  They  have  the  testi- 
mony, the  energy  and  desire  to  do  it  well.  We  are  proud  of  them  and 
of  their  parents,  priesthood  quorums,  and  others  who  sustain  them. 

Our  reports  for  1935  indicate  an  improvement  in  every  item  upon 
which  reports  are  made.  The  spirit  which  permeates  all  this  work  is 
difficult  to  read  into  the  reports  but  we  feel  it,  rejoice  in  it,  and  know 
that  it  is  of  a  divine  source.  Literally  thousands  of  people  have  heard 
the  Gospel  message.  Friends  are  being  raised  up,  and  many  are  seeking 
us  out  on  their  own  initiative.  The  lump  is  gradually  being  leavened. 
The  missionaries  of  our  mission  are  indeed  proud  to  be  entrusted  with 
responsibilities  in  connection  with  this  mighty  work. 

The  Saints,  as  members  of  the  mission,  are  also  increasing  in  devo- 
tion and  energy.  They  are  growing  in  power  to  live  and  appreciate 
the  Gospel.  Their  activities  have  increased  and  broadened.  They,  with 
you,  are  trying  to  be  worthy  of  this  Church  and  its  blessings. 

We  have  discovered  that  the  truth,  in  being  taught,  must  be  re- 
flected through  the  teacher.  We  must  teach  the  Gospel  in  terms  of  every 
day  life  and  in  the  language  of  the  people.  If  this  were  not  true  the 
mere  distribution  of  our  literature  would  be  sufficient.  Testimony,  with 
the  warmth  of  soul  that  comes  from  one  who  lives  the  truth,  is  a  mighty 
force.  The  missionaries  never  cease  to  attract  attention  because  of  their 
clean,  wholesome,  radiant  lives.  The  truths  of  the  Gospel  shine  through 
them  and  their  experiences.  Perhaps  a  personal  incident  will  illustrate 
this: 

Upon  one  occasion  I  was  bearing  my  testimony  to  the  truthfulness 
of  the  Gospel.  The  man  to  whom  I  spoke  said,  "I  don't  believe  a  word 
of  it."  I  asked  him  if  he  had  ever  experienced  the  effect  of  an  anaesthetic. 


ELDER  WILFORD  W.  RICHARDS 


93 


"Yes,"  he  replied  and  then  described  his  feelings  to  me.  At  the  con- 
clusion of  his  description  I  gave  back  to  him  his  own  answer  to  my  testi- 
mony by  saying,  "I  don't  believe  a  word  of  it."  This  rather  startled 
him  but  at  the  same  time  presented  the  point  of  view  that  each  of  us 
was  speaking  out  of  our  own  personal  experience.  Since  I  had  had 
no  anaesthetic  experience  I  could  not  appreciate  and  understand  his,  and 
was  perhaps  just  as  much  justified  in  denouncing  it  as  he  was  in  refusing 
to  give  credence  to  my  testimony  which  had  arisen  out  of  my  personal 
experiences,  the  likeness  of  which  he  had  never  felt.  The  incident  led 
to  an  open  door  and  an  invitation  to  discuss  at  some  length  the  principles 
of  religion. 

The  past  winter  in  our  section  of  the  country  has  been  the  most  se- 
vere in  history.  Under  such  conditions  we  have  found  it  necessary  to  de- 
velop new  and  varied  ways  of  doing  our  work.  We  have  been  forced 
to  substitute  a  variety  of  methods  for  those  usually  employed.  The 
missionaries  have  been  equal  to  the  emergency,  however,  and  have  made 
real  contributions  to  the  service  even  under  these  trying  conditions. 

The  headquarters  of  our  mission  is  located  in  Minneapolis,  a  Chris- 
tian community  with  many  churches  and  many  wonderful  people.  Many 
of  these  people  being  of  Scandinavian  descent,  we  feel  that  there  is 
much  of  the  blood  of.  Israel  there  which  should  respond  to  the  Gospel. 
We  have  been  interested  in  several  very  distinctive  contributions  to 
Christian  conduct  and  leadership  that  come  out  of  our  community  life. 
You  may  be  interested  to  know  that  a  large  retail  store  which' employs 
some  three  thousand  workers  will  not  advertise  in  a  Sunday  newspaper, 
nor  illuminate  its  windows  on  Sunday  to  display  its  wares ;  nor  require 
labor  of  its  workmen  except  in  the  very  minimum  service  of  guarding 
and  protecting  the  property.  A  popular  newspaper  with  a  circulation  of 
more  than  115,000  copies  daily  refuses  to  carry  any  kind  of  advertising 
which  relates  to  liquor  or  strong  drink.  The  thing  that  has  interested 
us  in  these  cases  is  the  fact  that  the  public  in  the  main  admire  the  prac- 
tices referred  to  and  reward  them  with  a  good  business  and  a  growing 
sentiment  of  approval. 

We  are  grateful  for  the  visit  of  Elder  George  Albert  Smith  in  our 
mission  since  it  was  my  privilege  last  to  report.  He  left  his  faith,  love 
and  testimony  there  in  full  measure.  He  did  us  much  good  as  he  mingled 
with  the  missionaries  and  the  local  members  of  the  Church.  Many  friends 
came  to  our  meetings  to  hear  him  and  went  away  rejoicing  in  their 
privilege  and  opportunity. 

We  are  looking  forward  to  another  visit  from  the  General  Au- 
thorities of  the  Church  this  season. 

It  is  a  joy  to  bring  to  you  parents  the  love  and  greetings  of  your 
missionaries.  It  is  in  like  manner  a  privileged  opportunity  to  bring  a 
pledge  of  loyalty,  support,  and  allegiance  to  President  Grant  and  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church  who  have  sent  us  out  into  the  service. 

We  of  the  North  Central  States  mission  are  grateful  for  your 
confidence  and  trust.  We  desire  most  earnestly  that  the  Lord  will  assist 
us  to  the  extent  that  we  may  properly  honor  and  respond  to  it,  and  that 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


our  work  and  responsibility  may  be  met  with,  "an  eye  single  to  the  glory 
of  God."  Personally  I  am  very  grateful  for  the  Gospel,  my  heritage, 
and  my  family,  and  the  missionaries  with  their  cooperation  and  service 
in  this  work  of  the  Lord. 

In  all  sincerity  and  humility  I  desire  to  add  my  testimony  to  those 
borne  before  me  in  this  conference  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
our  Redeemer.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 

President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

I  am  grateful,  beyond  my  power  to  say,  for  the  privilege  of  labor- 
ing in  the  ministry  of  God,  associating  myself  with  fine  young  men  and 
women  who  are  doing  their  utmost  to  deliver  the  message  that  has  been 
vouchsafed  to  them. 

I  believe  that  one  of  the  delightful  things  of  mission  life  is  to 
see  the  development  and  growth  that  takes  place  in  the  minds  and 
hearts  of  these  young  men  and  women.  They  appreciate  beyond  measure 
the  help  they  are  receiving  from  their  parents  and  their  friends  in 
maintaining  them  during  their  stay  in  the  mission  fields.  They  are 
meeting  with  success  and  are  enjoying  at  the  present  time  health  and 
strength,  for  which  we  are  very  thankful.  We  have  eighty-four  mis- 
sionaries,— sixty  elders  and  twenty-four  young  women.  We  have 
some  from  the  Central  States  mission,  some  from  California,  some  from 
Arizona,  some  from  Alberta,  and  the  rest  are  from  Utah  and  from 
Idaho. 

I  believe  that  the  greatest  way  in  which  to  present  this  message 
of  truth  is  through  the  power  of  example.  I  should  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  of  saying  just  exactly  what  it  means  to  live  upright  and 
good  lives.  You  and  I  very  frequently  are  invited  to  banquets  and 
balls,  not  only  in  the  regularly  organized  stakes  of  Zion,  but  also  in  the 
mission  fields.  About  six  weeks  ago  arrangements  were  made  by  one 
of  our  very  fine  young  women  to  hold  one  of  these  banquets  and 
balls,  and  in  making  the  arrangements  with  the  hotel  management  in 
whose  hotel  this  affair  was  to  be  held,  she  said,  "It  will  not  be  necessary 
for  you  to  serve  tea  or  coffee.  The  one  hundred  and  sixty-five  young 
men  and  women  who  will  gather  here  tonight  do  not  drink  tea  or 
coffee."  It  was  then  suggested  that  he  arrange  the  card  tables  and 
cigarette  trays  in  one  of  the  adjacent  rooms  so  that  at  intervals  these 
young  people  could  go  in  and  spend  a  little  time  in  recreation, — that  kind 
of  recreation.  This  fine,  upstanding  young  woman  said,  "These  hundred 
and  sixty-five  young  men  and  women  do  not  smoke  cigarettes  nor  do  they 
play  cards,  nor  do  they  drink  wine  or  liquor  or  beer ;  so  it  will  not  be 
necessary  to  make  preparations  along  this  line.  However,"  she  said,  "It 
might  be  well  for  you  to  order  one  hundred  and  sixty-five  bottles  of 
milk" — which  was  done. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR.  95 

The  power  of  example — I  am  beginning  to  feel  that  the  strength 
of  this  mighty  Church  is  certainly  based  upon  the  power  of  example. 

I  clipped  out  of  one  of  our  magazines  the  other  day  this  fine,  brief 
statement  written  not  so  long  ago  by  our  beloved  President  Grant;  in 
its  brevity  there  is  such  a  volume  of  truth  so  fine  and  splendid  that  I 
believe  it  would  be  good  in  referring  to  it  to  read  it.  "Let  us  get  faith 
as  a  people.  Let  us  so  order  our  lives  that  we  are  entitled  to  an  increase 
of  that  faith.  I  am  thankful  that  I  know  of  no  man  or  woman  who 
ever  joined  this  church  and  attended  his  or  her  sacrament  meetings, 
partaking  of  the  sacrament  in  remembrance  of  the  suffering  of  our 
Savior  and  his  death,  who  was  honest  in  the  payment  of  his  or  her 
tithing,  who  divided  with  the  Lord  as  perfectly  as  he  would  ask  the 
Lord  to  divide  with  him  if  he  were  making  up  an  account,  who  has 
kept  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  I  have  never  known  such  a  person  to  lose 
his  or  her  faith."  I  believe  that  the  fundamentals  of  this  great  Church 
are  based  upon  those  very  principles.  In  order  for  you  and  me  to  carry 
that  power  with  us  in  our  ministry  it  seems  to  me  that  we  must  comply 
with  these  fundamentals  of  truth.  In  order  to  understand  perfectly  this 
work  it  is  necessary  that  we  be  clean  in  habit  and  in  thought,  to  have 
the  light  of  truth  we  must  live  the  truth. 

I  am  glad  to  report  to  you  that  so  far  as  my  knowledge  is  con- 
cerned, these  young  men  and  women  are  preaching  this  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  by  the  power  of  example,  which  I  am  convinced  is 
the  way  in  which  the  Spirit  of  God  can  operate  upon  their  minds  and 
upon  their  hearts  so  that  people  will  naturally  gravitate  to  them  because 
of  the  quality  of  truth  that  they  are  carrying  in  their  example. 

Recently  it  was  said  by  Brother  Stephen  L.  Richards,  "No  man 
can  be  respectful  of  Deity  and  have  in  his  heart  an  improper  attitude 
towards  the  creations  of  Deity.  The  man  who  properly  understands  his 
relationship  to  God  and  the  endowments  which  he  has  received  from  the 
Creator  will  be  filled  with  reverence  and  thanksgiving."  How  true  is 
this  philosophy ! 

We  are  told,  my  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  power  of 
truth  in  its  highest,  purest  and  most  exalted  phases  stands  squarely  upon 
four  basic  lines  of  thought :  First,  the  love  for  truth ;  secondly,  the 
search  for  truth ;  thirdly,  faith  in  truth ;  and  fourthly,  the  work  for  truth. 

Here  is  a  combination  of  facts  that  brings  you  and  me,  when  we 
study  these  truths,  into  transforming  fellowship  with  God,  our  eternal 
Father.  They  provide  for  finer  interpretations  upon  the  different  phases 
of  this  great  latter-day  work.  It  is  said,  "The  path  of  truth,  higher 
living,  truer  development  in  every  phase  of  life,  is  never  shut  from  the 
individual  until  he  closes  it  himself.  Let  man  feel  this,  believe  it,  and 
make  this  fact  a  real  and  living  factor  in  his  life  and  there  are  no  limits 
to  his  progress.  He  has  but  to  live  his  best  at  all  times  and  rest  calm 
and  untroubled  no  matter  what  results  come  from  his  efforts. 

"No  rule  for  higher  living  will  help  a  man  in  the  slightest  till  he 
reach  out  and  appropriate  it  for  himself,  until  'he  make  it  practical  in 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


his  daily  life.  The  man  who  is  seeking  ever  to  do  his  best  is  the  man 
who  is  keen,  active,  wide  awake,  and  aggressive." 

As  long  as  you  and  I  are  ever  striving  to  do  our  best  in  living  the 
great  truths  of  the  Gospel  we  are  entitled  always  to  the  light  of  truth. 

In  conclusion  I  wish  to  leave  with  you  my  humble  testimony  con- 
cerning the  divinity  of  this  work.  I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  the  instrumentality  through  which  God  operated  in 
bringing  to  pass  the  saving  graces  of  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Master, 
Jesus  Christ.  I  pray  that  He  will  keep  us  firm  and  steadfast  in  the  faith, 
and  that  our  power  of  example  will  be  beyond  reproach,  I  humbly  ask 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

An  anthem,  "Nazareth,"  (Gounod),  was  sung  by  the  Choir  (The 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers). 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  the  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


THIRD  DAY 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  convened  Monday  after- 
noon, April  6,  at  2  o'clock. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  furnished  the  music  for  this 
meeting. 

Elder  J.  Percy  Goddard,  President  of  the  Liberty  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

"All  Hail  to  Thee"  (Pilgrim's  Chorus — Wagner),  was  sung  by 
the  Choir. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

The  following  are  but  a  few  of  the  many  expressions  of  the  great 
Master  and  Teacher  himself  on  the  subject  of  prayer : 

"watch  and  pray" 

Pray  for  them  which  despitefully  use  you.  (Matt.  5:44.) 

Watch  ye  and  pray.  .  .  .  The  spirit  truly  is  ready,  but  the  flesh  is 
weak.  (Mark  14:38.) 

Take  ye  heed,  watch  and  pray;  for  ye  know  not  when  the  time  is. 
(Mark  13:33.) 

Watch  ye  therefore  and  pray  always  that  ye  may  be  accounted 
worthy  to  escape  all  these  things  that  shall  come  to  pass,  and  to  stand 
before  the  Son  of  Man.  (Luke  21 :36.) 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


97 


Why  sleep  ye?  Rise  and  pray.  (Luke  22:46.) 

Pray  that  ye  enter  not  into  temptation.  (Luke  22:40.) 

The  whole  of  the  New  Testament  and  of  course  therefore  all  the 
teachings  of  our  Lord  are  filled  with  instructions  and  admonitions  to 
pray.  There  are  some  among  the  rich,  as  among  all  other  classes  in  our 
nation,  who  ridicule  religion.  One  wise  man  (Roger  W.  Babson)  has 
said  that  these  men  of  wealth  of  the  United  States  who  ridicule  religion 
are  indebted  for  all  that  they  possess  to  the  family  prayers  which  were 
once  held  daily  in  the  homes  of  their  fathers. 

JOSEPH  SMITH'S  EXPERIENCE 

On  this  subject,  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  in  his  writings  says: 

Having  looked  around  me,  and  finding  myself  alone,  I  kneeled  and 
began  to  offer  up  the  desires  of  my  heart  to  God.  ...  I  saw  a  pillar  of  light 
exactly  over  my  head. 

The  Prophet  continues : 

I  had  beheld  a  vision.  I  have  thought  since  that  I  felt  much  like 
Paul,  when  he  made  his  defense  before  King  Agrippa  and  related  the 
account  of  his  vision  when  he  saw  a  light  and  heard  a  voice ;  .  .  .  some 
said  he  was  dishonest,  others  said  he  was  mad ;  ...  he  was  ridiculed  and 
reviled.  But  all  this  did  not  destroy  the  reality  of  his  vision.  He  had  seen 
a  vision,  .  .  .  and  all  the  persecution  under  heaven  could  not  make  it 
otherwise ;  he  .  .  .  would  know  to  his  latest  breath  that  he  had  both 
seen  a  light  and  heard  a  voice.  .  . 

So  it  was  with  me.  I  had  actually  seen  a  light.  ...  I  had  found  the 
testimony  of  James  to  be  true — that  a  man  who  lacked  wisdom  might  ask 
of  God,  and  obtain,  and  not  be  upbraided.  (Pearl  of  Great  Price,  pp. 
48-50;  James  1  :S.) 

TRANSFORMED  BY  DIVINE  LIGHT 

Paul  saw  a  light,  Paul  heard  a  voice.  That  light  which  burned  into 
his  soul  was  the  something  outside  of  himself  which  he  needed,  for 
that  divine  light  changed  him  from  a  man  of  hate  to  a  man  of  love, 
from  the  man  who,  when  the  Christians  were  put  to  death,  gave  his 
voice  against  them,  into  that  scholarly  and  powerful  defender  of  the 
Christian'  faith  around  whose  teachings  much  of  our  New  Testament 
has  been  built.  It  was  that  light  from  heaven,  that  inspiration  from 
the  Almighty  which  transformed  this  wicked  persecutor  of  the  saints, 
Saul  of  Tarsus,  into  Paul  the  great  and  scholarly  apostle. 

And  so,  too,  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  saw  a  light,  he  heard  a 
voice.  This  light,  this  voice,  this  inspiration  transformed  him  from 
a  youth  filled  with  doubts  and  uncertainties  into  a  mighty  prophet.  Under 
the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  he  saw  clearly  and  he  defined  definitely,  in 
the  revelations  which  have  come  to  us  through  him,  those  rules  for 
Christian  living  of  which  the  world  today  is  in  such  desperate  need. 

INSPIRING  THE  SOULS  OF  MEN 


What  can  I  do?  What  can  you  do?  What  can  the  people  of  the 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


nations  and  of  the  world  do  to  bring  into  the  souls  of  men  this  much 
needed  light,  this  inspiration  which  will  bring  about  remarkable  and 
desirable  transformations  in  the  form  of  love,  unselfishness,  success, 
peace  on  earth  good  will  toward  men? 

Praying,  having  faith  in  our  Lord,  struggling  to  live  in  accordance 
with  his  teachings,  his  ideals  and  his  example  will,  I  am  sure,  in  no 
small  degree  bring  about  these  greatly  desired  results.  Honest,  earnest, 
prayerful  appeals  will  bring  that  inspiration,  that  divine  light  which 
transforms  human  lives  from  those  which  are  filled  with  misgivings 
and  mistrust  into  lives  of  faith  in  fellowmen,  faith  in  self  and  faith 
in  divine  providence.  Living  the  Christian's  life  of  prayer  in  a  thorough- 
ly honest  and  conscientious  way  will,  I  verily  believe,  change  the  nations 
and  the  people  of  the  world  everywhere  from  conditions  of  hate,  con- 
ditions of  greed  and  conditions  of  mistrust  into  conditions  of  faith, 
conditions  of  affection  and  confidence,  of  joy,  happiness,  peace  and 
success. 

In  this  trying  hour  I  appeal  to  you  Latter-day  Saints,  if  you  are 
not  doing  so  already,  to  call  your  families  together  with  daily  regularity 
and  with  them  go  upon  your  knees  and  appeal  for  help  and  guidance, 
for  that  light,  that  voice,  that  inspiration  which  all  of  our  families  and 
all  other  people  everywhere  need  so  much  in  this  time  of  trial  and 
temptation. 

REMEMBER  THE  ALMIGHTY 

Abraham  Lincoln  said  our  nation  has  had  a  growth  and  a  develop- 
ment the  like  of  which  no  other  nation  has  ever  known,  but,  said  he, 
during  our  great  Civil  War,  the  trouble  with  us  is  "We  have  forgotten 
God."  I  appeal  to  you  to  remember  the  Almighty.  Let  us  remember 
him  who  in  all  the  history  of  our  nation  has  been  our  strong,  our  loyal 
and  our  devoted  Friend.  By  his  power  we  the  people  of  the  United 
States  are  able  to  live  today  in  this  land  of  freedom  and  liberty  under 
the  sacred  folds  of  the  only  flag  in  all  the  world  that  has  never  known 
defeat.  Remember  the  motto  of  our  nation,  "In  God  we  trust."  Let 
us  pray  to  him  in  secret,  make  of  him  a  confidential  friend,  tell  him  our 
shortcomings,  our  imperfections  and  our  weaknesses ;  appeal  for  these 
to  be  forgiven  and  then  pray,  in  faith  believing,  for  strength  and  courage 
and  power  to  resist  evil.  Let  us  appeal  not  for  burdens  that  are  light 
but  for  strength  to  lift  those  loads,  however  heavy,  which  may  be  placed 
upon  us. 

In  this  hour  of  stress,  of  temptation  and  of  depression,  in  these 
days  when  war  clouds  are  threatening  everywhere,  let  us  pray  that  men's 
hearts  may  be  purged  of  selfishness  and  greed  and  that  the  light  of 
heaven  which  brings  the  spirit  of  sacrifice  and  unselfishness  may  shine 
with  glowing  effect  into  the  souls  of  men  everywhere 

I  appeal  to  you  who  compose  the  vast  multitude  assembled  in  this 
historic  Tabernacle  and  to  all  who  are  listening  in  not  only  to  remember 
the  Lord  by  going  upon  your  knees  in  secret  and  in  your  family  prayers 
but  I  appeal  to  you  also  to  go  with  regularity  to  your  places  of  worship 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


99 


and  there  with  prayerful  hearts  come  into  closest  possible  communion 
with  our  Heavenly  Father  and  thus  deserve  and  receive  from  him  an 
answer  to  your  honest,  heartfelt  appeals  whatever  blessings  are  necessary 
to  fill  your  hearts  and  lives  with  joy,  contentment,  peace  and  success. 

THE  SABBATH  A  DAY  OF  PRAYER 

We  should  bear  in  mind  always  that  the  Sabbath  is  a  day  of  prayer. 
It  is  a  day  of  worship.  We  do  not  go  to  our  places  of  worship  for  the 
purpose  of  acquiring  scholarship ;  we  do  not  go  there  to  learn  history 
or  mathematics  or  science.  The  purpose  of  our  going  to  our  sacrament 
meetings  is  to  worship.  We  cannot  get  faith  by  logic  any  more  than 
we  can  get  learning  by  simply  longing  for  it.  Partaking  worthily 
of  the'  Sacrament  of  the  Lord's  Supper  is  an  important  and  funda- 
mental part  of  that  worship,  and  it  is  this  intense  and  genuine  wor- 
ship, this  prayerful  spirit  that  will  bring  that  light  and  inspiration 
of  which  I  have  spoken,  that  light  and  inspiration  which  we  all  so  much 
need  and  which  so  many  of  us,  I  am  sorry  to  say,  do  not  deserve. 

A  FORTIFICATION  AGAINST  EVIL 

It  is  said  that  the  temptations  of  today  are  greater  than  those  of 
any  previous  time.  It  is  generally  conceded  that  our  young  folks  are 
surrounded  with  conditions  more  alluring  than  those  of  any  previous 
period.  If  we  have  not  taught  our  children  to  pray  as  a  means  of  helping 
to  fortify  them  against  the  evils  with  which  they  are  surrounded,  then 
in  the  language  of  the  Savior  let  me  exclaim,  "Why  sleep  ye?  Rise  and 
pray  that  ye  enter  not  into  temptation."  (Luke  22:46.)  Remember,  as 
the  Master  says,  the  flesh  is  weak  and  therefore  we  need,  indeed  we  must 
have  the  help  of  Heaven  if  we  are  going  to  be  able  to  resist  the  tempta- 
tions of  today. 

If  we  have  not  taught  our  young  people  to  pray  and  thus  to  come 
into  close  communion  with  the  light  and  inspiration  of  Heaven,  I  am 
sure  that  a  little  careful  reflection  will  convince  us  that  such  neglect 
has  been  and  is  a  serious  mistake.  The  revelation  itself  says  clearly : 
"And  that  thou  mayest  more  fully  keep  thyself  unspotted  from  the  world, 
thou  shalt  go  to  the  house  of  prayer  and  there  offer  up  thy  sacraments 
upon  my  holy  day."  (D.  and  C.  59 :9.) 

THE  MIRACULOUS  EFFECT  OF  PRAYER 

Let  me  renew  and  repeat  my  appeal  that  we  all  pray,  and  pray 
always,  in  our  homes,  in  secret  and  in  our  places  of  worship  so  that 
we  may  not  enter  into  temptation.  And  let  us  remember  that  after 
we  have  resolved  to  pray  earnestly  and  faithfully,  after  we  have  had 
awakened  in  our  souls  faith  in  Divine  Providence  and  a  burning  testi- 
mony of  the  divinity  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  after  we  have 
decided  to  accept  the  teachings  of  the  Son  of  God  and  after  we  have 
successfully  undertaken  to  live  in  accordance  with  these  teachings,  to 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


pray,  to  worship  our  Lord  and  Master,  to  do  our  best  to  do  his  will,  we 
will  then  necessarily  have  the  singular  consciousness  of  knowing  that 
we  are  not  exactly  the  same  persons  we  were  before.  The  effect  of  the 
Gospel  upon  hearts  and  lives  is  miraculous.  The  effect  of  the  light  of 
Heaven  which  comes  as  a  result  of  faithful,  effective  appeals  is  remark- 
able, it  is  wonderful. 

THE  GREATEST  WORK  IN  THE  WORLD 

George  R.  Wendling  has  said  that  the  most  wonderful  work  in  the 
world  is  not  to  take  iron  and  steel  and  brass  and  with  these  make  a 
locomotive;  that  the  most  wonderful  work  in  the  world  is  not  to  take 
gold  and  diamonds  and  cog-wheels  and  with  these  make  a  watch ;  nor 
is  the  most  wonderful  work  in  the  world  to  take  canvas  and  colors  and 
brush  and  with  these  paint  an  Angelus ;  nor  even  yet  is  the  most  wonder- 
ful work  in  the  world  to  take  pen  and  parchment  and  write  an  Iliad  or 
a  Hamlet.  No,  indeed,  says  he,  infinitely  more  wonderful  and  infinitely 
greater  than  any  one  or  all  of  these  combined  is  that  something  which 
is  accomplished  by  living  in  accordance  with  the  teachings  of  the  Gospel 
of  the  Master.  The  prayerful,  devoted,  honest,  sincere,  unselfish  Chris- 
tian life  has  such  remarkable  power  that  it  can  take  an  ignoble,  cruel, 
impure  and  dishonest  human  being  and  transform  that  cruel,  ignoble, 
impure  and  dishonest  person  into  an  upright,  gentle,  pure,  honest  and 
dependable  human  soul.  "Though  your  sins  be  as  scarlet,  they  shall 
be  as  white  as  snow;  though  they  be  red  like  crimson,  they  shall  be  as 
wool."  (Isaiah  1 :18.)  Such  transformations  show  the  glory,  the  grand- 
eur, the  power  and  the  mystery  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  is 
this  rebirth,  it  is  this  rebuilding,  it  is  this  reconstruction  of  lost  and 
broken  souls  into  upright  and  glorious  men  and  women  that  is  infinitely 
greater  than  anything  else  which  this  age  of  mechanical  miracles  can  do. 
In  the  presence  of  accomplishments  thus  marvelous,  we  bow  humbly 
before  the  mastery  of  our  Lord.  His  Gospel  is  most  wonderful.  We 
who  have  felt  its  touch  and  inspiration  can  say  boldly  in  the  language 
of  the  Bible,  "For  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ :  for  it  is 
the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  to  everyone  that  believeth."  (Romans 
1:16.) 

OUR  MOST  IMPORTANT  WORK 

In  conclusion :  Let  us  never  forget  that  the  outstanding  commission 
that  is  yours  and  mine  as  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  the  outstanding  work  to  be  done  by  those  who  have 
been  endowed  with  authority  to  speak  in  the  name  of  the  Master  is  to 
carry  the  Gospel  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people.  Let  us 
never  forget  that  this  "Gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached  in  all 
the  world  for  a  witness  unto  all  nations  and  then  shall  the  end  come." 
(Matt.  24:14.)  In  this  our  most  important  work  and  duty  may  we  not 
fail,  but  humbly,  with  the  aid  and  blessing  of  our  Heavenly  Father, 
go  forward  to  outstanding  success,  I  humbly  pray. 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


101 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

To  be  eligible  to  occupy  this  position  with  no  certainty  that  you 
will  be  called  to  speak  is  an  ordeal  that  keeps  one  in  a  state  of  anxiety. 
In  this,  I  see  in  a  measure  a  likeness  to  the  second  coming  of  our  Lord, 
for  he  tells  us  that  when  he  comes  he  will  come  as  a  thief  in  the  night 
and  no  man  will  know  the  day  or  the  hour  thereof.  We  have  the 
further  warning  that  those  who  are  prepared  will  find  that  day  to  be 
a  day  of  rejoicing,  while  those  who  have  not  been  obedient  to  his  laws 
will  be  overtaken  with  sorrow. 

I  rejoice  in  having  the  privilege  of  raising  my  voice  with  my  breth- 
ren during  this  conference.  We  are  living  in  a  wonderful  time,  an 
age  of  many  marvels.  Today  we  hardly  dare  think  of  what  tomorrow 
might  bring.  It  appears  to  me  that  with  man  increasing  his  powers 
there  is  less  concern  for  God,  for  the  world  is  troubled,  and  contention 
and  selfishness  are  found  on  every  hand.  True,  friends  are  being 
raised  up  to  assist  us  in  the  great  work  in  which  we  have  been  called  to 
labor,  yet  there  are  those  who  profess  to  be  priests  of  the  Most  High, 
who  are  not  content  to  teach  the  doctrines  of  the  Church  they  represent, 
but  resort  to  spreading  untruths  about  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  For  example,  I  recently  read  an  article  which  was 
written  by  one  who  certainly  knows  he  is  stating  untruths. 

I  refer  to  this  article  as  a  reminder  to  us  that  in  accepting  the 
priesthood  we  assume  a  responsibility  which  carries  an  obligation  to 
God  and  our  Lord  and  Savior  and  our  fellows  who  are  the  children 
of  God.  The  time  allotted  to  me  will  only  permit  of  a  brief  statement 
concerning  some  of  the  falsehoods  that  I  have  culled  from  this  article : 

First.  "As  a  religion,  Mormonism  has  the  minimum  of  worship." 
With  our  sacrament  meetings,  Sunday  Schools,  our  priesthood  quorum 
meetings,  and  the  meetings  of  the  auxiliaries,  I  answer,  in  what  other 
church  can  you  find  such  devotion  ? 

Second.  "It  has  no  service  of  sacrifice."  What  is  sacrifice?  From 
Adam  to  the  coming  of  our  Lord  its  purpose  was  to  keep  the  children  of 
God  reminded  of  the  great  sacrifice  in  which  the  Lamb  of  God  should 
be  slain  and  offered  as  an  atonement  for  the  transgression  of  Adam. 

For  even  Christ  our  passover  is  sacrificed  for  us : 

Therefore  let  us  keep  the  feast,  not  with  old  leaven,  neither  with 

the  leaven  of  malice  and  wickedness ;  but  with  the  unleavened  bread  of 

sincerity  and  truth.  (I  Cor.  S  :7,  8) 

Third.  "It  has  lost  completely  the  original  and  Christian  idea  of 
priesthood,  etc."  I  answer :  What  was  the  original  idea  of  priesthood 
as  outlined  in  the  New  Testament?  The  Bible  clearly  describes  the 
Church  as  having  apostles,  prophets,  seventies,  elders,  bishops,  priests, 
teachers,  deacons,  and  evangelists.  In  what  church  today  are  such  offi- 
cers found  ?  The  Church  record  shows  that  approximately  86%  of  those 
who  hold  the  priesthood  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saints  are  actively  engaged  in  church  work,  or  willing  to  labor.  The 
only  reward  looked  for  is  the  promised  blessings  of  our  Father  and  our 
God.  Is  not  such  service  a  sacrifice  as  described  by  Paul  the  Apostle 
of  old? 

Fourth.  "There  is  no  clergy  class."  I  find  no  mention  in  the  Bible 
of  "a  clergy  class,"  nor  do  I  find  mention  of  a  priesthood  class  such 
as  constitute  the  clergy  of  today.  I  ask,  has  new  revelation  been  given 
providing  for  this  change? 

Fifth.  "The  speakers  at  their  meetings  are  farmers,  etc."  From 
the  Bible  we  learn  that  the  officers  of  the  primitive  church  were  fisher- 
men, tax  gatherers,  clerks,  etc.  John,  the  apostle  chosen  by  our  Lord, 
records  this  statement  made  by  our  Lord : 

I  am  the  true  vine,  and  my  father  is  the  husbandman. 
Every  branch  in  me  that  beareth  not  fruit  he  taketh  away :  and  every 
branch  that  beareth  fruit  he  purgeth  it,  that  it  may  bring  forth  more  fruit. 

****** 

Abide  in  me,  and  I  in  you.  As  the  branch  cajniot  bear  fruit  of  itself, 
except  it  abide  in  the  vine ;  no  more  can  ye,  except  ye  abide  in  me. 

Herein  is  my  Father  glorified,  that  ye  bear  much  fruit;  so  shall 
ye  be  my  disciples. 

This  is  my  commandment,  That  ye  love  one  another,  as  I  have  loved 

you. 

Ye  have  not  chosen  me,  but  I  have  chosen  you,  and  ordained  you, 
that  ye  should  go  and  bring  forth  fruit,  and  that  your  fruit  should  remain : 
that  whatsoever  ye  shall  ask  of  the  Father  in  my  name,  he  may  give  it 
you.  (John  15:1,  2,  4,  8,  12,  16.) 

There  is  ample  evidence  that  these  "farmers,  etc.,"  who  have  in  this 
day  been  ordained  apostles,  etc.,  are  recipients  of  this  promise. 

For  what  man  knoweth  the  things  of  man,  save  the  spirit  of  man  which 
is  in  him?  even  so,  the  things  of  God  knoweth  no  man,  but  the  Spirit  of 
God.  (I  Cor.  2:11.) 

But  God  has  revealed  them  unto  us  by  his  Spirit :  for  the  Spirit 
searcheth  all  things,  yea,  the  deep  things  of  God.  (I  Cor.  2:10) 

Sixth.  "These  'farmers,  etc'  are  incapable  of  discussing  religion 
on  anything  like  the  plane  of  the  average  Protestant  minister."  Strange, 
is  it  not,  that  this  professional  schooled  clergy  class  have  never  to  our 
knowledge  converted  even  one  of  these  men  whom  we  send  out  as 
missionaries,  like  those  sent  out  by  the  Savior,  although  in  some  cases 
lacking  in  schooling.  Why?  Because  they  go  out  into  the  world  having 
been  commissioned  with  authority  from  him,  and  his  Spirit  goes  before 
them,  and  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  upon  them,  as  of  old. 

Our  critic  speaks  of  the  "supposed"  doctrines  revealed  to  Joseph 
Smith.  If  he  will  read  them  with  an  honest  intent,  he  will  find  every 
one  to  harmonize  with  the  Bible,  and  I  am  certain  that  he  cannot  make 
a  similar  claim  for  the  church  he  represents. 

Seventh.  "The  Mormon  respect  for  the  Bible  is  not  so  great  as  that 
of  the  average  Protestant  church,  etc."    That  statement  has  been  an- 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


103 


swered  during  this  conference.  I  add,  Protestantism  testifies  that  we 
adhere  to  the  teachings  of  the  Bible  more  nearly  than  any  other  church. 

We  preach  Christ  crucified,  unto  the  Jews  a  stumbling  blcck,  and  unto 
the  Greeks  foolishness ; 

But  unto  them  which  are  called,  both  Jews  and  Greeks,  Christ  the 
power  of  God,  and  the  wisdom  of  God. 

Because  the  foolishness  of  God  is  wiser  than  men  ;  and  the  weakness 
of  God  is  stronger  than  men. 

For  ye  see  ycur  calling,  brethren,  how  that  not  many  wise  men 
after  the  flesh,  not  many  mighty,  not  many  noble,  are  called: 

But  God  hath  chosen  the  foolish  things  of  the  world  to  confound 
the  wise;  and  God  hath  chosen  the  weak  things  of  the  world  to  confound 
the  things  which  are  mighty: 

And  base  things  of  the  world,  and  things  which  are  despised,  hath 
God  chosen,  yea,  and  things  which  are  not,  to  bring  to  nought  things 
that  are : 

That  no  flesh  should  glory  in  his  presence. 

But  of  him  are  ye  in  Christ  Jesus,  who  of  God  is  made  unto  us 
wisdom,  and  righteousness,  and  sanctification,  and  redemption : 

That,  according  as  it  is  written,  he  that  glorieth,  let  him  glory  in 
the  Lord.  ( 1  Cor.  1 :23-31.) 

Ye  are  bought  with  a  price;  be  not  ye  servants  of  men; 

Brethren,  let  everv  man,  wherein  he  is  called,  therein  abide  with  God. 
(I  Cor.  7:23,  24.) 

Our  accuser  either  is  not  acquainted  with  the  Book  of  Mormon 
or  is  not  honest  in  his  criticism  of  our  belief  in  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
Prescott  says : 

The  Jewish  and  Christian  schemes  were  strangely  mingled  together 
during  the  conquest  of  Mexico  by  Cortez  and  the  brains  of  the  good  fathers 
were  still  further  bewildered  by  the  mixture  of  heathenish  abominations 
which  were  so  closely  intertwined  with  the  most  orthodox  observances. 
In  their  perplexity,  they  looked  on  the  whole  as  the  delusion  of  the 
devil,  who  counterfeited  the  rites  of  Christianity  and  the  traditions  of  the 
chosen  people,  that  he  might  allure  his  wretched  victims  to  destruction. 

If  our  critic  will  read  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  refer  to  fragments 
of  records  which  were  preserved  from  the  destructive  fires  of  his  fellow 
clergymen  centuries  ago,  he  will  find  justification  for  the  disturbed  con- 
dition of  mind  of  his  ancient  fellows. 

In  his  reference  to  "Rational  Theology"  he  uses  the  tricks  resorted 
to  by  some  college  trained  clergymen.  He  has  taken  statements  from 
several  paragraphs  and  made  them  serve  his  purpose,  ignoring  the  ex- 
planatory matter  and  the  vital  part  of  the  complete  quotation.  I  wish  I 
had  time  to  read  it  all. 

We  believe,  as  the  Bible  teaches,  that  our  Lord  atoned  for  the 
transgression  of  Adam,  which  was  necessary  that  we  might  follow,  as 
mortal  beings,  children  of  the  living  God,  and  that  through  baptism 
and  obedience  to  the  laws  of  God  we  should  be  saved  in  one  of  the 
three  degrees  of  glory,  and  that  each  person  should  answer  for  his  own 
sins,  and  not  for  Adam's  transgression.  We  believe  that  baptism  must 
be  done,  by  immersion,  by  one  having  authority,  which  is  likened  to  a 
burial  and  a  washing,  and  that  sprinkling  does  not  meet  the  requirement 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  law.  We  believe  that  little  children  are  without  sin,  therefore 
need  not  be  baptized.  We  agree  that  mixed  marriages  are  not  desirable, 
and  believe  that  all  marriages  that  are  not  performed  for  time  and  all 
eternity  by  one  having  authority,  are  null  and  void  after  death. 

As  to  "Sins,  etc."  We  shall  earn  our  degree  of  glory  through 
obedience  to  the  laws  of  God.  Any  act  contrary  to  law  is  sin,  and  dis- 
pleasing to  the  Lord,  and  for  such  each  individual  will  be  called  to 
answer  before  the  judgment  seat  of  God.  The  sacrifice  of  our  Lord 
brought  about  redemption  from  death  to  each  of  the  children  of  God, 
each  in  his  time,  according  to  his  obedience  to  the  divine  laws.  To 
this  end  we  baptize  for  the  dead  as  of  old. 

We  believe  that  the  words  of  First  Corinthians  15  :29  are  true  and 
set  forth  the  plan  of  our  Lord.  Our  accuser  must  also  believe  or  admit 
that  the  laws  have  been  changed,  and  if  the  Bible  contains  all  of  the 
word  of  the  Lord,  then  this  change  is  man-made  and  without  authority. 
From  the  beginning  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
members  have  continually  sought  for  records  of  their  dead,  and  have 
performed  ordinances  in  the  temples  as  of  old,  and  as  the  Church  has 
grown,  so  an  interest  in  genealogy  has  increased  among  all  people,  and 
now  nations  are  aiding  in  the  work;  wherefore 

Let  every  soul  be  subject  unto  the  higher  powers.  For  there  is  no 
power  but  of  God :  the  powers  that  be  are  ordained  of  God. 

Whosoever  therefore  resisteth  the  power,  resisteth  the  ordinance  of 
God:  and  they  that  resist  shall  receive  to  themselves  damnation.  (Romans 
13:1,  2.) 

God  grant  that  we  shall  feel  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  us  to 
the  extent  that  we  will  continue  to  labor  in  faith,  humbly  and  diligently 
seeking  to  know  the  will  of  the  Father  and  abide  in  the  law,  so  that 
when  he  comes  we  shall  be  numbered  with  those  chosen  to  meet  him, 
I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  HAROLD  W.  PRATT 

President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

I  can  sympathize  with  the  statement  made  by  Bishop  David  A. 
Smith.  To  sit  here  expecting  to  be  called  at  any  time  during  three 
days  and  then  perhaps  not  to  lie  called,  or  to  be  called,  I  think  is 
one  of  the  most  trying  experiences  I  have  ever  gone  through  in  ray 
life. 

Nevertheless,  I  am  very  pleased  to  be  here  with  you  this  after- 
noon. I  have  enjoyed  to  the  fullest  the  Conference  and  expect  to  re- 
turn to  my  field  of  labor  strengthened  in  my  faith  and  testimony 
to  represent  you  in  the  mission  field  in  Mexico. 

It  is  with  pleasure  that  I  report  to  you  that  the  mission  is  grow- 
ing. We  have,  I  believe,  the  finest  group  of  missionaries  that  there 
has  ever  been  in  the  Mexican  mission.    I  am  sure  that  the  growth 


ELDER  HAROLD  W.  PRATT 


105 


in  number  during  the  past  year  is  equaled  in  the  quality  of  the  mis- 
sionaries. I  believe  that  the  Church  has  never  before  sent  such  a 
uniform,  fine  group,  with  so  few,  practically  no  problem  cases.  The 
mission  field  has  ceased  to  be  what  it  perhaps  once  was,  a  reform 
school.  We  are  now  sending  them  out,  I  am  happy  to  report,  to 
preach  the  Gospel,  to  teach  the  truths  of  the  restored  Gospel  to  the 
world.   And  they  are  doing  that  very  thing. 

We  have  been  happy  during  the  past  year  to  have  a  one  hundred 
per  cent  increase  in  the  number  of  our  missionaries.  We  wish  to 
thank  you  parents  in  Zion  and  you  bishops  of  wards  and  presidents  of 
stakes  for  this  hearty  cooperation.  We  beg  of  you  that  you  continue 
your  cooperation  in  sending  forth  missionaries.  If  the  one  hundred 
per  cent  increase  that  we  have  enjoyed  in  the  Mexican  mission  could 
be  extended  to  a  thousand  per  cent  increase  we  would  still  have 
room  to  place  the  missionaries  to  good  advantage. 

Our  mission  is  a  mission  of  self-sacrifice,  one  of  unselfish  service, 
a  service  of  love.  There  is  a  request  that  I  should  like  to  make  to 
those  of  you  who  are  sending  your  boys  and  girls  into  the  mission 
field,  and  that  is,  that  before  they  are  called  you  imbue  them  with 
that  spirit,  give  to  them  that  motive  of  going  forth  into  the  mission 
field,  a  motive  of  service,  of  taking  that  which  is  of  utmost  value  to 
people  and  giving  it  to  them  that  they,  in  turn,  may  enter  the  realm 
of  service  and  through  that  service  of  sacrifice  and  unselfishness  gain 
blessings  for  themselves.  We  find  that  too  often,  even  today,  our 
missionaries  come  into  the  field  with  the  idea  of  personal  achieve- 
ment, with  the  idea  of  personal  benefit,  with  the  idea  of  gaining 
experience  which  will  better  fit  them  for  future  life.  And  while  of 
course  this  is  one  of  the  greatest  benefits  of  missionary  work,  we  take 
it  that  even  that  benefit  will  be  greater  if  the  motive  is  correct,  being 
that  of  unselfishly  serving  our  fellowmen,  of  carrying  to  them  this 
Gospel,  which  is  of  the  utmost  value,  of  helping  to  make  the.  world 
a  better  place  in  which  to  live,  of  verily  representing  the  spirit  of 
this  Conference  which,  I  take  it,  is  the  spirit  of  our  Church,  a  spirit 
exemplified  in  the  talk  made  by  President  McKay,  that  "He  who 
shall  find  his  life  shall  lose  it,  yet  he  who  may  lose  his  life  for  my 
sake  shall  find  it  eternally." 

I  find,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  the  conditions  in  the  world 
today,  are  indeed  nothing  more  nor  less,  in  my  opinion,  than  the 
working  out  of  the  plans  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  who  will  overrule 
all  things  in  the  interest  of  his  work  and  mark  out  the  ways  by  which 
people  may  be  brought  to  an  attitude  and  a  state  of  mind  in  which 
they  will  accept  the  Gospel  principles.  I  think  this  is  true  univer- 
sally. The  calamities  that  are  befalling  our  nation,  as  well  as  other 
nations,  the  political  turmoil,  the  breaking  down  of  some  of  the 
powers  that  have  held  people. in  slavery, — at  least  spiritual  slavery, — 
for  so  many  years, — all  of  these  things,  I  take  it,  are  merely  placing 
people  in  a  position  in  which  they  may  accept  of  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel  upon  hearing  it. 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


My  great  concern  is  whether  or  not  I,  and  those  laboring  with 
me  in  our  specific  field  of  labor,  shall  be  able  to  keep  up  our  end 
of  the  bargain  and  discharge  our  responsibility  of  presenting  the 
Gospel  to  the  people  as  soon  as  the  Lord  brings  them  to  an  accept- 
able point  of  view.  I  beseech  of  you,  each  and  every  one,  to  so  live 
your  religion  that  your  light  may  so  shine  that  men  seeing  your  good 
works  may  come  to  glorify  our  Father  which  is  in  heaven.  I  be- 
seech of  you  further  cooperation  in  sending  your  boys  and  girls  into 
the  mission  field  to  carry  this  message  to  the  people  who,  according 
to  my  belief,  are  now  coming  to  the  mental  and  spiritual  state  in 
which  they  may  accept  these  saving  principles. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  and  that  the  Gospel 
which  he  brought  to  the  earth  has  been  restored.  I  testify  to  you  that 
our  Church  today  is  guided  by  men  who  are  blessed  with  the  power 
of  revelation,  the  power  to  represent  our  Heavenly  Father  here  upon 
the  earth,  and  that  through  them  we  do  receive  his  mind  and  will, 
which  is  just  as  binding  upon  us  as  though  we  were  to  receive  it  from 
him  direct.  Therefore  let  us  be  united  in  sustaining  our  present 
authorities  and  working  with  them  to  the  accomplishment  of  the 
Lord's  purposes. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  to  this  end,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus, 
Amen. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Guide  Us,  O  Thou 
Great  Jehovah,"  after  which  the  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "O  Divine 
Redeemer."  (Soloists  Margaret  Stewart  Hewlett  and  Annette  Richard- 
son Dinwoodey,  William  Hardiman,  violinist). 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

This  is  a  meeting  of  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  no  person  not  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  has  any  business  to  be  voting,  and  no 
person  is  expected  to  speak  in  this  meeting  unless  requested  to  do  so 
by  the  presiding  officer.  We  will  now  present  the  Authorities  of  the 
Church. 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 


PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 


PRESIDENT  MERER  J.  GRANT 


107 


COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Reed  Smoot  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

George  Albert  Smith  John  A.  Widtsoe 

George  F.  Richards  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Charles  A.  Callis 

Stephen  L.  Richards  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  and  the  Twelve  Apostles 
as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Samuel  O.  Bennion 

Levi  Edgar  Young  John  H.  Taylor 

Rufus  K.  Hardy 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

i 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants :  Andrew 
Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  *  Richard  R.  Lyman 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  -<John  A.  Widtsoe 
David  O.  McKay  Adam-  S.  Bennion 

WrHari-rYoung  -'Joseph  F.  Merrill 

«•  Rudger  Clawson  «<  Charles  A.  Callis 
'  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Franklin  S.  Harris 

j  Stephen  L.  Richards  Franklin  L.  West 

Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 

Franklin  L.  West 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Orval  W.  Adams  John  W.  Hart  John  F.  Bennett 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

David  A.  Smith,  President;  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor;  D. 
Sterling  Wheelwright,  Assistant  Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.  Kimball  Frank  W.  Asper 

Alexander  Schreiner  Wade  N.  Stephens,  Assistant 

CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Joseph  Anderson 
GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  First  Counselor 
Kate  M.  Barker,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

George  D.  Pyper,  General  Superintendent 
Milton  Bennion,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  MEN'S   MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Albert  E.  Bowen,  General  Superintendent 
George  Q.  Morris,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Franklin  L.  West,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  WOMEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Ruth  May  Fox,  President 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  First  Counselor 
Clarissa  A.  Beesley,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON 


109 


PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  Superintendent 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Edith  Hunter  Lambert,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

All  of  the  foregoing  General  Authorities  and  Officers  of  the 
Church,  and  the  General  Auxiliary  Officers  were  unanimously  sustained 
by  the  vote  of  the  Conference. 

ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

It  is  related  that  an  infidel  once  said  to  the  great  Pascal,  who  was  a 
devout  Christian,  "If  you  will  prove  your  religion  to  me  I  will  try  it." 

Pascal  replied,  "If  you  will  try  the  religion,  it  will  prove  itself." 

I  have  the  same  feeling  today  with  respect  to  our  own  religion. 
I  have  been  inspired  by  the  things  that  have  been  said  and  my  soul  has 
also  been  lifted  up  because  of  the  wonderful  and  inspirational  music 
to  which  we  have  listened.  Under  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  I  would 
like  to  tell  you  how  much  there  is  in  our  religion,  when  properly  tried, 
which  will  prove  itself. 

Two  weeks  ago  yesterday  I  was  in  Boston.  A  minister  attended 
our  services  and  told  us  at  the  close  that  he  had  been  studying,  he 
and  other  members  of  a  committee,  for  many  months,  the  best  there  is 
in  the  religions  of  the  world,  and  they  had  selected  twenty-two  leading 
Articles  of  Faith  from  various  churches  for  what  they  believe  to  be  a 
new  religion  or  a  new  church  they  are  about  to  found,  and  that  of  those 
twenty-two  they  had  selected  nine  of  the  Articles  of  Faith  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  wish  they  had  selected  the  rest 
of  our  Articles  of  Faith  and  would  really  accept  the  truths  stated  therein. 

Would  you  be  better  physically?  Try  the  laws  of  the  Lord  with 
respect  to  health.  I  never  heard  any  one  say  that  they  didn't  work  well. 
Would  you  love  your  neighbor  and  treat  your  fellow  men  properly? 
Follow  the  teachings  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Not  long  ago  a  man  was  speaking  to  me  with  reference  to  the 
acquiring  of  wealth.  He  referred  to  it  as  one  of  the  great  curses  of  the 
world. 

I  said,  "If  you  would  follow  the  teachings  of  our  church  as  laid 
down  in  the  Holy  Scriptures,  there  would  be  no  curse." 
He  asked  me  for  a  specific  reference. 

The  second  chapter  of  Jacob,  the  eighteenth  and  nineteenth  verses, 
to  which  I  referred  him,  explain  the  true  motive  back  of  the  acquiring 
of  wealth : 

But  before  ye  seek  for  riches,  seek  ye  for  the  kingdom  of  God ;  and 
after  ye  have  obtained  a  hope  in  Christ  ye  shall  obtain  riches  if  you  seek 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


them,  and  ye  will  seek  them  for  the  intent  to  do  good,  to  clothe  the  naked 
and  to  feed  the  hungry  and  to  liberate  the  captive  and  administer  relief 
to  the  sick  and  the  afflicted. 

Can  the  acquiring  of  wealth  be  a  curse  when  that  is  the  motive 
back  of  it?  The  answer  is  apparent.  It  is  the  motive  back  of  the 
acquiring  of  wealth,  it  is  the  love  of  money  that  is  the  curse,  not  the 
acquiring  of  it  for  a  righteous  purpose.  Would  you  seek  to  know  the 
laws  of  toleration,  of  equality?  Read  the  thirtieth  chapter  of  Alma. 

And  so  we  might  go  on  through.  If  the  world  would  accept,  if  the 
world  could  truly  understand  and  follow  the  admonition  of  the  teachings 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the  Bible, 
then  would  the  solutions  of  the  world's  problems  appear.  The  religion 
is  itself  its  greatest  witness.  To  try  it,  to  know  it,  to  understand  it  is 
to  have  it  commended  to  every  thoughtful  man  and  woman.  The  Book 
of  Mormon  and  all  other  inspired  writings  of  the  Lord,  have  within 
them  inherently  that  which  appeals  to  the  best  there  is  in  mankind. 

When  true  religion  is  translated  into  life,  I  think  it  is  not  boasting 
to  say  that  it  is  the  greatest  influence  for  good  in  all  the  world.  Just 
a  few  illustrations : 

I  wonder  if  I  may  just  read  one  or  two  sentences  from  a  letter  that 
I  received  the  other  day?  We  have  only  one  group  of  missionaries 
in  the  Eastern  States  mission  that  has  engaged  in  athletic  activities 
during  the  last  winter.  That  was  only  supplemental  to  their  missionary 
work.  This  letter  came  to  the  office  the  other  day  entirely  unsolicited. 
Let  me  read  just  a  verse  or  two  from  it.   This  man  says : 

Undoubtedly  you  will  appreciate  this  unsolicited  commendation  of 
one  of  your  groups  in  the  mission  field. 

Later  on  he  says  : 

These  wholly  Christian-like  young  men  set  up  a  standard  of  athletic 
competition  that  can  never  be  excelled  in  these  wonderful  United  States. 
During  their  too  brief  stay  with  us  here  in  the  anthracite  coal  mining 
region  there  seemed  to  be  almost  a  halo  of  American  sportsmanship 
surrounding  the  very  beings  of  these  young  men.  Nothing  that  I  can 
here  say  would  better  express  my  inner  thoughts  concerning  all  of  them 
than  to  tell  you  that  I  shall  continue  to  boast  of  their  friendship  and 
its  value  to  me  as  one  of  the  priceless  possessions  of  my  life. 

They  probably  will  be  more  surprised  to  learn  of  this  letter  than 
you  at  the  Eastern  States  mission  were  to  receive  it. 

Four  or  five  of  our  young  men  have  been  touring  a  part  of  our 
mission  lately.  In  addition  to  being  splendid  singers  they  are  fine  speak- 
ers. In  Massachusetts,  two  weeks  ago,  they  had  thirty-nine  appoint- 
ments before  business  clubs,  before  ladies'  clubs,  before  Young  Men's 
Christian  Associations,  before  newspaper  boards  and  other  organizations. 
Wherever  they  have  gone  we  have  received  from  men,  who  attended 
and  listened  to  their  message,  words  of  commendation. 

A  few  Sundays  ago  in  a  conference  a  fine  lady  came  up  at  the  close 
of  the  meeting  and  expressed  great  appreciation  of  the  services. 


ELDER  ABEL  S.  RICH 


111 


Some  one  asked  her  what  part  of  the  meeting  she  enjoyed  best. 

She  said,  "Not  the  main  speaker" — !(I  was  he). 

(Laughter.) 

"I  have,"  said  she,  "enjoyed  the  spirit  of  these  young  men  and 
women  who  have  spoken  here  today.  As  I  saw  them,  as  I  heard  them, 
I  said,  'Can  it  be  that  the  religion  of  which  I  have  heard  so  much  evil, 
can  it  be  that  it  has  produced  these  boys  and  girls  ?  I  would  have  my  son 
doing  the  work  they  are  doing  if  he  would.  If  this  is  Mormonism  we 
want  it  in  our  homes." 

I  could  only  say  to  her,  as  I  say  to  you  in  conclusion,  "Can  water 
rise  above  its  source?"  "Do  men  gather  grapes  of  thorns,  or  figs  of 
thistles?"  The  Gospel  of  Christ,  in  which  we  so  devoutly  believe,  is 
responsible  for  the  lives  of  our  people. 

These  young  men  and  women  who  are  in  the  Eastern  States  mission 
and  who  are  in  every  other  mission  of  the  Church  come  from  Mormon 
homes.  Back  of  every  one  of  them  is  a  Mormon  mother,  as  back  of 
George  Washington  was  a  Mary  Ball  Washington  and  as  back  of  Abra- 
ham Lincoln  there  was  a  Nancy  Hanks  Lincoln.  So  back  of  every 
Mormon  missionary  is  a  Mormon  mother,  a  Mormon  home,  a  Mormon 
father,  and  the  Mormon  religion. 

Try  this  religion.  It  will  prove  itself.  God  help  us  to  put  it  to 
the  test.  I  say  to  you  parents,  you  have  sent  some  good  boys  and  girls 
out  into  the  mission  field.  Not  every  one  is  perfect,  but  in  the  main 
there  are  no  better  boys  and  girls  in  all  the  world.  God  is  with  them  and 
they  are  taking  their  message  to  the  world. 

I  pray  that  God  will  help  us  to  continue  to  know  the  truth.  I 
know  it  and  bear  solemn  testimony  to  you  today  of  its  truthfulness, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ABEL  S.  RICH 

President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

If  this  were  not  such  a  difficult  task  I  would  be  indeed  happy  to 
report  to  you  the  Canadian  mission.  I  can  say  truthfully  that  after 
being  out  of  these  valleys  of  the  mountains  for  some  time  I  am  happy 
to  be  back  in  them.  Their  friendliness  appeals  to  me,  as  does  the  spirit 
of  this  great  Conference. 

I  am  happy  to  bring  you  greetings  from  the  Saints  and  missionaries 
of  the  Canadian  mission,  and  to  tell  you  that  they  are  all  well  and  happy. 
I  know  how  those  Saints  would  enjoy  what  you  are  enjoying  today.  As 
our  broadcast  went  to  them  Sunday  it  would  be  the  first  time  that  many 
of  them  had  heard  our  president  and  his  counselors,  and  they  were 
prepared  to  receive  those  messages. 

For  some  of  you  who  may  not  know,  may  I  say  that  the  Canadian 
mission  covers  the  provinces  of  Ontario,  Quebec,  Nova  Scotia  and  New 
Brunswick,  in  Canada,  and  Maine,  New  Hampshire  and  Vermont  in 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  United  States.  It  is  a  beautiful  country.  There  are  no  more 
beautiful  cities,  I  think,  any  place,  than  the  city  of  Toronto,  our  head- 
quarters. The  fertile  valleys  of  Ontario  are  beautiful.  I  think  there 
are  no  more  fruitful  areas  on  the  American  continent  than  we  find  there. 
We  go  from  there,  however,  out  to  frontier  sections  in  Nova  Scotia, 
New  Brunswick  and  northern  Maine,  where  we  find  people  still  using 
ox  teams  in  the  lumber  camps  and  on  the  farms. 

I  have  been  especially  impressed  with  the  culture  and  refinement 
of  the  Canadian  people.  The  boys  and  girls  who  come  to  the  Canadian 
mission  are  likewise  impressed  with  the  refinement  of  those  people  who 
have  seemed  to  bring  with  them  the  culture  and  refinement  of  the  Old 
World.  They  are  more  like  the  people  of  Europe,  I  believe,  than  they 
are  like  our  own  people.  They  are  in  the  center  of  great  educational 
institutions,  and  their  schools  are  wonderfully  fine.  I  have  been  espe- 
cially impressed  with  two  outstanding  things  among  those  people :  one 
is  that  in  ten  months  in  Canada  I  have  never  heard  swearing.  I  thought 
it  was  possibly  because  I  had  not  been  where  people  swear,  but  I  have 
children  in  school,  both  in  high  school  and  in  the  grades,  and  they,  too, 
tell  me  they  do  not  hear  young  people  swear.  The  other  outstanding 
thing  is  the  strict  observance  of  the  Sabbath  day.  In  the  city  of  Toronto, 
with  eight  hundred  and  fifty  thousand  people,  there  are  no  amusements 
open  on  Sunday,  no  athletic  games,  and  the  people  seem  not  to  feel 
that  they  are  deprived  of  any  of  their  rights,  but  they  are  happy  in  the 
observance  of  the  Sabbath  day. 

Yet,  among  this  fine  people,  with  this  culture  and  refinement,  we 
find  one  difficulty  in  our  missionary  work,  and  that  is  the  difficulty  of 
an  audience.  We  really  should  present  our  calling  card  or  have  a  formal 
introduction  before  we  can  be  invited  into  their  homes.  Many  of  the 
people  through  that  area  belong  to  churches  that  deny  their  people  the 
right  to  read  and  converse  on  religious  subjects.  Many  others  belong 
to  that  group  of  "saved"  people  who  have  entrusted  their  salvation  to 
their  minister  and  feel  that  they  can  go  happily  along  without  responsi- 
bility. 

It  reminds  me  of  the  prediction  the  Apostle  Paul  made  in  his 
epistle  to  Timothy  when  he  said,  "The  time  will  come  when  they  will 
not  endure  sound  doctrine ;  but  after  their  own  lusts  shall  they  heap 
unto  themselves  teachers  having  itching  ears ;  and  they  shall  turn  away 
their  ears  from  the  truth  and  shall  be  turned  unto  fables."  And  it 
seems  that  that  has  become  the  truth  in  many  places.  We  know  that  it 
is  a  truth  that  a  closed  shutter  lets  in  no  light.  It  makes  no  difference 
whether  that  shutter  is  closed  because  the  light  is  too  strong  to  bear  or 
whether  there  is  no  light  there  to  bear.  If  we  get  the  truth  before 
people,  their  mental  shutters  must  be  opened  wide.  It  is  one  of  the 
problems  of  the  missionaries  throughout  that  district  to  get  people  to 
listen  to  them.  They  are  trying,  through  their  own  personalities  and  in 
other  ways  to  get  the  mental  shutters  open — to  get  an  audience. 

The  missionaries  feel  their  responsibility,  and  although  we  have  had 
a  long,  -cold  winter,  they  have  found  many  means  of  presenting  the 


ELDER  ABEL  S.  RICH 


113 


Gospel  to  the  people,  so  that  we  have  found  an  increase  in  missionary 
activity  in  practically  every  department,  and  we  have  also  found  an 
increase  in  happiness  because  of  the  work  done.  I  think  our  missionaries 
fully  sense  that  when  the  Master  said,  "Ye  are  the  salt  of  the  world"  and 
"Ye  are  the  light  of  the  world,"  he  meant  that  for  them  also,  and  that 
they  are  to  spread  the  savor  of  Christianity  and  so  live  that  their  lives 
will  bring  people  to  a  knowledge  of  God. 

I  think  it  is  Fosdick  who  said  of  those  verses  that  Jesus  was  saying 
to  his  disciples,  "You  are  more  than  mere  individuals ;  you  are  represent- 
ing Me  in  the  world ;  you  stand  for  My  honor  and  My  success  in  the 
world." 

It  is  an  interesting  thing  to  note  that  every  man  has  a  power  to  stand 
for  something  more  than  himself.  It  is  an  interesting  thing  that  Latter- 
day  Saints,  wherever  they  go  in  the  world,  seem  to  stand  for  something, 
more  than  themselves.  It  is  interesting,  I  think,  for  us  as  Latter-day 
Saints  to  occasionally  check  on  ourselves,  ask  ourselves,  what  do  we 
stand  for  in  the  community  where  we  live.  Among  the  people  that  we 
associate  with,  what  human  interests  or  what  turn  of  character  do  we 
represent?  It  is  a  beautiful  thing  to  have  the  satisfaction  of  feeling 
that  we  do  represent  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
We  feel  happy  to  have  people  know  that  our  actions  are  determined 
by  the  principles  of  the  Gospel. 

In  2nd  Nephi,  the  twenty-eighth  chapter  and  thirtieth  verse,  we 
read: 

For  behold,  thus  saith  the  Lord  God :  I  will  give  unto  the  children  of 
men  line  upon  line,  precept  upon  precept,  here  a  little  and  there  a  little, 
and  blessed  arc  those  who  hearken  unto  my  precepts  and  lend  an  ear  to 
my  counsel,  fcr  they  shall  learn  wisdom.  For  unto  him  that  receiveth 
I  will  give  more,  and  from  them  that  shall  say,  We  have  enough,  from 
them  shall  be  taken  even  that  which  they  have. 

Truly  it  is  in  the  power  of  every  Latter-day  Saint  to  accomplish 
what  the  Lord  has  said,  and  if  we  will  accept  what  he  has  given  us  he 
will  add  unto  us ;  but  if  we  say  we  have  enough,  then  there  will  be  taken 
from  us  even  that  which  we  have. 

Many  people  marvel  at  the  happiness  of  the  missionary  and  many 
question  his  truthfulness  when  he  says,  "It  is  the  happiest  time  of  my 
life."  But  they  seem  not  to  understand  that  some  one  who  has  analyzed 
the  Master's  life,  truly  said,  "The  source  of  the  Master's  joy  was 
beyond  the  power  of  men  and  circumstances."  Nothing  that  men  or 
circumstances  could  do  could  rob  him  of  his  joy.  We  remember  also 
that  he  said  to  his  disciples,  "My  joy  I  give  unto  you,  and  your  joy 
no  man  taketh  from  you." 

It  is  the  missionary,  then,  who  has  this  joy  that  is  not  at  the  mercy 
of  men  or  circumstances,  who  can  be  happy  though  he  labor  all  the  day 
long  and  receive  no  welcome  from  those  he  approaches,  because  no 
man  has  power  to  take  his  joy  from  him.  May  God  grant  unto  all 
missionaries  this  joy. 


•114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Now  in  conclusion  may  I  say  to  the  parents  that  we  are  happy  to 
have  your  sons  and  daughters  there  with  us.  Sister  Rich  and  I  are 
doing  our  best  to  guard  their  health  and  keep  them  happy.  We  appreciate 
them,  and  we  appreciate  the  missionary  work  that  you  are  doing  in  the 
fine  letters  of  encouragement  and  happiness  that  you  write  to  them. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you  and  them  and  us,  to  carry  to  a  successful 
conclusion  this  work  we  have  begun,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 

President  of  the  California  Mission 

My  brothers  and  sisters :  I  thought  that  I  had  fixed  matters  so 
that  I  would  not  be  called  upon  to  speak  at  this  conference,  but  it  seems 
I  am  not  a  good  fixer. 

I  am  thrilled  to  be  here  and  to  have  felt  the  spirit  that  has  been  in 
each  of  the  sessions  of  this  conference.  I  come  from  sunny  California. 
1  bring  you  the  greetings  first  of  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley,  one  of  God's 
noblemen,  who  is  sojourning  there  for  a  time  in  an  endeavor  to  regain 
his  health.  Since  his  arrival  there  he  has  gained  three  pounds  in  weight, 
but  he  is  yet  a  very  sick  man 

I  bring  you  the  greetings  of  the  missionaries,  one  hundred  and 
twenty-three  of  them, — clean,  noble,  devout  workers  in  this  great  cause. 
Recently  the  president  of  one  of  the  districts  said  to  me,  "President 
Smith,  Elder  so-and-so  is  district  president  timber.  He  is  laboring  in 
this  portion  of  the  field.  You  can't  move  him  to  any  other  district 
because  of  the  asthma  which  he  has,  and  his  mission  will  be  finished 
about  the  time  mine  is.  Will  you  make  him  the  district  president  and 
let  me  be  just  a  missionary?" 

That  is  the  sort  of  spirit  that  our  boys  and  our  girls  have, — a  desire 
to  be  helpful,  a  desire  to  be  unselfish ;  and  it  is  their  unselfishness  and 
their  lives  that  have  touched  so  many  people. 

I  bring  you  the  greetings  of  nine  thousand  members  of  the 
California  mission — Latter-day  Saints.  In  the  branches  now  repre- 
sented in  the  mission  the  increase  in  tithes  for  1935  over  the  year  1934 
was  some  twenty-five  per  cent. 

We  have  had  some  very  beautiful  experiences  in  this  matter  of 
tithing.  I  thought  as  President  Richards  was  talking  this  morning, 
what  a  fine  showing  some  of  these  branches  and  some  of  the  wards  of 
this  Church  make.  My  thoughts  went  to  Chino  valley,  a  little  branch 
that  has  had  five  per  cent  of  its  membership  in  the  mission  field,  and  of 
the  forty-two  members  that  began  the  first  of  the  year  forty-one  of  them 
were  on  the  tithing  record  before  the  end  of  the  year.  And  the  branch 
president  said,  "Well,  the  other  one  moved  away  or  he  would  have  been 
on  the  tithing  record  also." 

I  intimated  to  my  branch  presidents  that  I  thought  it  would  be  a 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 


115 


fine  thing  if  every  man,  woman  and  child  in  the  California  mission  could 
be  upon  the  tithing  record.  In  response  to  that  suggestion  I  received 
a  letter  from  President  David  Haymore  of  Douglas,  Arizona. 

President  Haymore  said,  "President  Smith,  there  are  two  hundred 
and  seventy-one  members  of  record  in  the  Douglas  branch  of  the 
church,  and  at  the  end  of  the  year  1935  there  will  be  two  hundred!  and 
seventy-one  on  the  tithing  record." 

I  smiled  at  the  suggestion,  but  when  the  year  ended  and  we  counted 
up,  to  my  surprise  I  discovered  that  President  Haymore  had  made  a 
mistake.  He  had  two  hundred  and  seventy-five  tithe-payers  and  two- 
hundred  and  seventy-one  members  in  his  branch. 

He  told  me  this  beautiful  story.  "President  Smith,  this  has  in- 
fluenced my  life  with  respect  to  the  matter  of  tithing.  A  little  child 
came  in  to  see  how  many  times  he  had  paid  his  tithing,  and  as  he  checked 
over  the  record  there  was  a  penny  here  and  a  penny  there  and  a  nickel 
here.  He  noticed  some  of  the  other  names  that  came  under  his  initial, 
and  he  said  to  President  Haymore,  "Daddy's  name  and  Mother's  name 
are  not  there." 

President  Haymore  said,  "No,  Daddy  and  Mother  haven't  paid  any 
tithing  this  year,  my  boy." 

So  this  little  one  went  home  disappointed  and  broken-hearted,  and 
said  to  his  mother,  "Mother,  Daddy's  name  and  your  name  are  not  on 
the  tithing  record." 

That  mother,  with  tears  in  her  eyes,  said,  "Thank  you,  my  boy ;  they 
will  be  there."   And  so  they  are  there  now.    So  a  little  child  led  them. 

I  am  delighted  to  have  heard  the  report  of  our  church  activities 
and  the  great  amount  of  money  that  has  been  expended  throughout  the 
past  year.  I  know  there  has  been  an  increase  in  tithes,  from  the  reports 
I  have  heard  from  other  wards  and  stakes  and  branches  of  the  Church, 
and  I  am  delighted  to  be  a  representative  of  the  Church,  happy  to 
associate  with  the  fine  young  men  and  women  and  the  noble  people 
amongst  whom  I  live  in  sunny  California. 

May  God  grant  that  we  may  ever  have  in  our  hearts  a  desire  to 
test  him.   For  you  will  remember  that  he  said,  "Try  me  and  see."  Amen. 


ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

Humbly  I  stand  before  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  yet  deeply 
grateful  to  the  Lord  for  the  privilege  of  representing  at  this  great  Con- 
ference the  approximately  one  hundred  and  fifty  missionaries  and  eight- 
een thousand  Saints  of  the  Southern  States  mission.  They  are  looking 
to  you  here  as  their  leaders  and  rejoice  in  every  good  report  that  reaches 
them  of  your  achievements  and  accomplishments. 

When  the  Master  was  upon  the  earth,  he  was  wont  to  say:  "Know 
ye  not  that  these  things  must  be  that  the  scriptures  may  be  fulfilled?" 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  have  sat  here  and  contemplated  what  a  marvelous  fulfilment  of  the 
prophecies  of  the  scriptures  we  see  about  us  in  the  establishment  of  this 
Church  in  these  valleys  of  the  mountains. 

I  desire  to  read  a  few  words  here  today  from  the  eleventh  chapter 
of  Isaiah,  quoted  by  Moroni  when  first  he  visited  the  prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  in  connection  with  the  bringing  forth  of  this  great  gospel  dispensa- 
tion. "And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  that  day,  that  the  Lord  shall  set  his  hand 
again  the  second  time  to  recover  the  remnant  of  his  people,  *  *  *  and 
he  shall  set  up  an  ensign  for  the  nations,  and  shall  assemble  the  outcasts 
of  Israel,  and  gather  together  the  dispersed  of  Judah  from  the  four 
corners  of  the  earth." 

That  which  has  been  said  here  during  this  Conference  and  that 
which  we  have  observed  indicate  that  the  Lord  has  set  up  an  ensign  unto 
the  nations.  This  great  assembly,  the.  beautiful  temple  upon  this  block, 
these  wise  leaders  who  are  here  to  teach  us  the  way  of  eternal  life,  these 
wonderful  singers  who  have  come  up  to  "sing  in  the  height  of  Zion,"  and 
you  brethren  and  sisters  who  have  come  from  the  valleys  that  have  been 
made  "to  blossom  as  the  rose,"  because  the  Lord  has  opened  "rivers 
in  high  places,  and  fountains  in  the  midst  of  the  valleys,"  are  all  evidences 
of  the  Lord's  fulfilment  of  his  promises. 

But  the  Lord  did  not  indicate  that  he  would  set  up  an  ensign  by 
the  erection  of  beautiful  buildings  and  the  subduing  of  the  desert  only, 
but  he  said  he  would  assemble  unto  this  land  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
to  teach  them  of  his  ways,  which  contemplates  the  appointment  of  men 
and  women  to  labor  in  the  vineyard  at  home  and  in  the  nations  of  the 
earth.  Jeremiah  expresses  this  thought  in  these  words :  "I  will  take 
you  one  of  a  city  and  two  of  a  family,  and  I  will  bring  you  to  Zion, 
and  I  will  give  you  pastors  according  to  mine  heart,  which  shall  feed 
you  with  knowledge  and  understanding."  Surely  we  have  been  taught 
of  his  ways  and  have  received  knowledge  and  understanding  here  at 
this  Conference. 

Then  Jeremiah  tells  us  that  the  Lord  would  send  for  many  fishers 
and  they  would  fish  them,  and  after  for  many  hunters  and  they  would 
hunt  them  from  every  mountain  and  from  every  hill  and  out  of  the  holes 
of  the  rocks.  I  want  to  say  to  you  fathers  and  mothers  that  we  are 
mighty  happy  to  have  in  our  mission  approximately  a  hundred  and  fifty 
of  these  "fishers  and  hunters,"  your  sons  and  daughters,  who  are  fishing 
and  hunting  the  seed  of  Israel  and  gathering  them  into  the  fold,  and  it 
is  my  testimony  to  you  that  when  men  and  women  are  called  of  God  to 
become  "fishers  and  hunters"  they  are  endowed  with  a  power  that  no 
man  of  himself  can  give.  Therefore,  when  these  missionaries  go  forth 
among  the  children  of  men  they  go  armored  of  God  to  accomplish  his 
purposes  and  gather  his  people,  and  their  influence  and  power  is  felt 
wherever  they  go,  as  people  who  have  met  them  are  happy  to  testify. 

The  other  day,  in  passing  through  one  of  our  large  cities,  I  drove 
up  to  a  door  and  said,  "Do  the  Mormon  missionaries  live  here?"  To 
which  the  lady  replied,  "Yes,  and  they  are  the  finest  young  men  I  have 
ever  met." 


ELDER  LEG  RAND  RICHARDS 


117 


Upon  another  occasion,  we  sent  missionaries  into  a  new  city  to 
open  up  the  work  in  that  section.  The  city  officials  were  not  sure  they 
wanted  to  permit  them  to  engage  in  their  work  there.  The  lady  with 
whom  they  were  boarding  said,  "I  have  some  influence  in  this  city,  1 
will  see  what  I  can  do."  She  took  these  missionaries  to  her  church  the 
next  Sunday  and  introduced  them  to  her  class  and  said,  "They  neither 
smoke  nor  drink,  nor  use  tea  or  coffee ;  and  they  don't  look  like  'sissies,' 
either,  do  they?"  Then  she  asked,  "Which  one  of  you  in  this  class  would 
be  willing  to  do  for  your  church  what  these  boys  are  doing?" 

Following  the  visit  of  Elder  Melvin  J.  Ballard  at  Jacksonville, 
Fla.,  on  Dec.  8,  1935,  one  of  the  elders,  with  only  thirty-five  cents 
in  his  pocket,  started  out  to  return  to  his  field  of  labor  in  South  Georgia. 
He  attempted  to  hitch-hike  on  the  highway  without  the  usual  success, 
apparently  for  a  wise  purpose.  About  nine  o'clock  in  the  evening  he 
found  himself  still  quite  a  distance  from  his  field  of  labor,  so  he  decided 
he  would  "tract-in"  (seek  entertainment)  for  the  night. 

After  being  unsuccessful  at  two  homes,  he  called  at  the  third  and 
was  met  at  the  door  by  a  minister  of  the  Gospel.  He  introduced  himself 
as  a  Mormon  missionary,  whereupon  he  was  invited  in.  The  minister 
explained  that  he  was  in  deep  distress — that  his  little  daughter  was  very 
sick  and  the  doctor  gave  them  no  hope  of  her  recovery.  By  this  time, 
they  had  entered  the  living  roorii  where  the  family  were  sitting,  and  the 
doctor  was  at  the  side  of  the  bed  upon  which  the  little  girl  was  lying. 

The  minister  remarked,  "You  believe  in  anointing  the  sick  with  oil, 
do  you  not?"  To  which  the  elder  replied  in  the  affirmative.  He  then 
added,  "I  wish  you  would  anoint  my  little  girl — I  have  prayed  for  her 
without  avail,"  and  he  offered  the  missionary  a  bottle  of  olive  oil.  The 
elder  asked  if  it  had  been  consecrated,  to  which  the  minister  replied, 
"I  am  afraid  I  do  not  understand  what  you  mean ;"  so  the  elder  suggested 
that  he  would  use  his  own  oil,  as  he  had  a  small  bottle  with  him,  and 
he  invited  the  family  to  kneel  with  him  about  the  bed  to  engage  in 
prayer  before  performing  the  sacred  ordinance.  They  seemed  rather 
reluctant  as  though  they  had  given  up  all  hope.  The  doctor  remarked, 
"Maybe  the  Lord  can  save  her  but  I  cannot."  The  elder  led  in  prayer 
and  then  administered  to  the  little  girl,  and  as  he  removed  his  hands  from 
her  head  she  relaxed,  and  the  doctor  immediately  reached  for  her  pulse 
as  though  he  feared  she  was  breathing  her  last. 

For  about  twenty  minutes,  the  elder  sat  visiting  with  the  minister 
and  his  family,  at  which  time  the  doctor  again  felt  the  girl's  pulse  and 
remarked,  "There  is  no  need  of  my  remaining  any  longer — your  little 
girl  will  be  all  right.  I  have  seen  it  with  my  own  eyes  and  yet  I  cannot 
believe  it." 

Addressing  the  elder,  the  minister  said,  "You  were  seeking  a  bed  for 
the  night,  were  you  not?"  And  being  informed  by  the  missionary  that 
he  was,  he  explained  that  he  was  not  prepared  to  accommodate  hint, 
but  that  he  was  willing  to  take  him  to  the  hotel  and  pay  for  his  room,  or 
he  would  drive  him  in  his  auto  wherever  he  wanted  to  go.  He  explained 
that  his  destination  was  sixty  miles  from  there,  but  the  minister  was 


118 


G ENE RA L  C 0  NEE FENCE 


])erfectly  willing  to  take  him  that  distance,  and  upon  reaching  his  destina- 
tion, the  minister  offered  the  elder  ten  dollars  for  what  he  had  done  in 
his  home,  hut  he  refused  to  accept  the  money,  explaining  the  instruction 
of  the  Master  to  the  Twelve  when  he  sent  them  forth:  "Freely  ye  have 
received,  freely  give." 

I  thank  my  Heavenly  Father  for  the  privilege  of  laboring  with  the 
fine  missionaries  who  have  been  sent  out  to  "recover  the  remnant  of 
his  people"  and  "hunt  them  from  every  mountain,  and  from  every  hill, 
and  out  of  the  holes  of  the  rocks,"  and  for  the  marvelous  manner  in 
which  he  is  opening  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men  to  receive  their 
testimonies. 

God  bless  this  people,  this  Church  and  our  leaders  and  our  mission- 
aries, I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

AUDITING   COMMITTEE'S  REPORT 

"Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  March  31,  1936. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant, 
Dear  President : 

We  have  examined  the  Financial  Report  of  the  Church  for  the 
year  1935,  which  also  includes  the  Presiding  Bishop's  department. 

The  Church  is  free  from  indebtedness,  its  financial  condition  is 
sound,  the  accounting  is  modern  and  complete.  We  heartily  commend 
the  careful  management  of  Church  finances  by  the  First  Presidency 
and  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church. 

Respectfully  submitted, 
O.  W.  Adams, 
John  W.  Hart, 
John  F.  Bennett, 

Auditing  Committee." 

EXPRESSES  APPRECIATION  OF  SINGING 

I  am  very  pleased  indeed  to  express  my  deep  appreciation  of  the 
beautiful  singing  that  we  have  had  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers, 
the  Hyrum  Stake  Choir,  and  the  Tabernacle  Choir.  I  rejoice  in  the 
splendid  work  of  Brother  Frank  Asper,  of  Brother  J .  Spencer  Cornwall, 
and  of  all  who  have  helped  make  this  conference  so  interesting  to  those 
who  have  attended. 

AN  INSPIRATIONAL  CONFERENCE 

Considering  that  it  is  a  week  day,  I  feel  that  we  have  a  very  won- 
derful and  splendid  audience  here  this  afternoon.  I  do  not  need  to  say 
to  you  people  who  have  attended  the  conference  that  to  me  it  has  been 
a  red-letter  day  in  the  history  of  the  Church. 

I  believe  that  we  have  had  greater  opportunity  to  carry  our  message 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


119 


to  the  world  than  ever  hefore  in  our  history.  I  am  grateful  for  the 
inspiration  of  the  Lord  that  has  been  manifested  here  in  the  speeches 
that  have  been  made.  I  am  glad  that  the  brethren  have  been  able  to 
keep  within  the  proper  time  limit  in  their  remarks.  Frequently  there  is 
not  time  for  all  to  speak.  We  have  thirty-three  speakers;  if  each 
takes  two  minutes  more  time  than  he  should,  it  amounts  to  one  hour  and 
six  minutes. 

MEMBERS  OF  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  ABSENT 

I  regret  that  I  overlooked  announcing  that  Brother  J.  Golden  Kim- 
ball has  been  absent  from  this  conference  on  account  of  ill-health.  Of 
course,  you  all  know  that  Brother  Joseph  F.  Merrill  is  in  Europe  presid- 
ing over  the  European  missions.  Brother  Merrill  is  meeting  with  great 
success  in  his  labors  in  Europe.  Brother  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley  is  in 
California  where  he  is  improving  in  health. 

An  anthem,  "Great  is  Jehovah,"  was  sung  by  the  Choir  (Relief 
Society  Singing  Mothers),  after  which  the  benediction  was  pronounced 
by  Elder  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  President  of  the  Bonneville  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  singing  at  the  Friday  sessions  of  the  Conference  by  the  Hyrum 
Stake  Choir,  was  under  the  direction  of  W.  H.  Terry;  the  singing  at 
the  Sunday  sessions  was  by  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir,  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall,  Conductor ;  Sister  Charlotte  O.  Sackett  directed  the  singing  of 
the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  at  the  Monday  sessions ;  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall  led  the  congregational  singing  at  all  the  sessions. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played 
by  Frank  W.  Asper. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 


Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  ilie  Conference. 


INDEX 


Authorities  Present   1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of   52 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J   50 

Full  significance  of  events  not  always  realized,  51 — Time's  vindi- 
cation of  a  courageous  man,  51 — Time's  judgment  upon  another, 
51 — The  case  of  Stephen  A.  Douglas,  52 — Lincoln  and  the  Mormon 
question,  52 — Time  a  friend  to  truth,  an  enemy  to  falsehood,  53 — 
The  course  we  should  follow,  53 — The  path  to  glory  and  exalta- 
tion, 54. 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0   80 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   29 

A  judgment  to  come,  29 — Assisting  in  bringing  people  to  God, 
30 — The  present  a  part  of  eternity,  30 — Continual  improvement, 
30 — The  resurrection  of  the  just,  31. 

Cannon,  Bishop  Sylvester  Q   20 

What  and  where  is  Zion,  20 — Zion — where  virtue  and  righteous- 
ness prevail,  20 — Opportunities  for  young  people,  21 — Care  in  plan- 
ning future,  21 — Cooperation  in  community  welfare,  22 — Proper 
home  training  and  Church  activity,  22 — Learning  a  trade  or  pro- 
fession, 22 — Responsibility  of  Church  officers,  23 — Unity  and  acti- 
vity bring  progress,  23 — Upright  living  produces  confidence,  23. 

Changes  in  Church  Officers   4 

Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast   45 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben    46 

Christ,  the  Creator  of  the  world,  46 — Personal  appearances  to  man, 
47 — Christ's  birth  and  atonement,  47 — A  glorious  manifestation  in 
this  dispensation,  48. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   61 

An  important  lesson  exemplified,  62 — Christ's  message  a  spiritual 
one,  62 — Comfort  in  distress  through  spiritual  enrichment,  63 — 
Seek  after  the  erring  ones,  63 — Falsehood  and  deception  from  the 
Evil  One,  63 — Laws  of  the  land  should  be  obeyed,  64 — Daily  revela- 
tions not  necessary,  64 — "Love  thy  neighbor,"  65. 


i22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Clawson,  President  Rudger   17 

The  Savior's  birth  and  mission  foretold,  17 — Words  of  scripture  set 
to  music,  17 — Words  of  prophecy,  17 — The  fulfilment,  18 — The 
Passion,  18 — The  Glorification,  19 — The  Resurrection,  19 — Our  ob- 
ligation to  the  Redeemer,  19. 

Colton,  Elder  Don  B  109 

Daynes,  Elder  Joseph  J   33 

Financial  Statement   2 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   24 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting   2 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  106 

General  Authorities  Present    1 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  108 

General  Officers  of  the  Church    107 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   6 

Accomplishments  under  difficulties,  6 — Revelations  in  Liberty  Jail, 
6 — God  with  the  Church,  7 — Friendly  compliments,  7 — Responsi- 
bility of  those  called  to  office,  8 — Blessings  through  obedience,  9 — 
Change  in  sentiment,  9 — Record  in  scouting,  10 — Genealogical  and 
temple  work,  11 — A  seminary  in  Wyoming,  11 — The  worth  of 
souls,  12 — A  Gospel  of  forgiveness,  12 — Testimony,  12. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   13 

Gratitude  for  singing  and  music,  13. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   42 

Thanks  the  Hyrum  Stake  choir,  42. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   48 

For  our  temporal  salvation,  48 — The  Constitution  should  be  main- 
tained, 49 — Governments  and  laws,in  general,  49 — The  proper  ex- 
ercise of  the  priesthood,  49 — Quotes  Articles  of  Faith,  50. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   56 

Title  by  adverse  possession,  56. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   57 

Telegrams  regarding  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast,  57. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   76 

Regarding  John  W.  Hart,  76. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   86 

"A  Poor  Wayfaring  Man  of  Grief,"  86. 


INDEX 


123 


Grant,  President  Heber  J  106 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities,  106 — Officers  of  the  Church, 
107 — General  Auxiliary  Officers,  108. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  118 

Auditing  Committee's  report,  118 — Expresses  appreciation  of  sing- 
ing, 118 — An  inspirational  conference,  118 — Members  of  General 
Authorities  absent,  119. 

Hardy,  Elder  Rufus  K   43 

Hinckley,  Elder  Bryant  S   36 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   27 

Kirkham,  Elder  James  M   89 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   96 

"Watch  and  Pray,"  96 — Joseph  Smith's  experience,  97 — Trans- 
formed by  divine  light,  97 — Inspiring  the  souls  of  men,  97 — Re- 
member the  Almighty,  98 — The  Sabbath  a  day  of  prayer,  99 — A 
fortification  against  evil,  99 — The  miraculous  effect  of  prayer,  99 — 
The  greatest  work  in  the  world,  100 — Our  most  important  work, 
100. 

McKay,  President  David  0   2 


Financial  statement,  2 — Statistics  and  other  data  compiled  from  the 
annual  reports  for  the  year  193S,  3 — Changes  in  Church  officers, 
stake,  ward  and  branch  organizations  since  last  October  Confer- 


ence, 4. 

McKay,  President  David  O   45 

A  significant  principle,  45 — Service  to  others,  46. 
McKay,  President  David  0   57 


A  far-reaching  broadcast,  57 — Courage  gives  strength,  58 — A 
critical  period,  58 — A  return  to  the  farm  advised,  59 — Faithfulness 
to  duty,   59 — Steadying  the   ark,  60 — Maintaining  ideals,  60 — 


Courage  in  facing  difficulties,  61. 

Pratt,  Elder  Harold  W  104 

Quinney,  Elder  Joseph,  Jr   94 

Rich,  Elder  Abel  S    Ill 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   77 


"Doers  of  the  word,  not  hearers  only,"  77 — An  example  of  loyalty 
and  faithfulness,  77 — Our  indebtedness  to  the  Lord,  78 — Working 
for  the  Lord,  78 — We  are  here  for  a  specific  purpose,  79 — For  the 
salvation  of  men,  79 — A  fulness  of  joy,  79 — Happiness  through  obe- 
dience to  God's  word,  80. 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand  115 

Richards,  Elder  Wilford  W   91 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   56 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting   42 

Smith,  Elder  David  A  101 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   13 

Membership  in  Christ's  Church  a  privilege,  13 — The  Book  of  Mor- 
mon in  Braille,  13 — Its  distribution  an  important  duty,  13 — A  re- 
markable prophecy,  14 — In  fulfilment  of  the  Lord's  promise,  14 — 
As  a  result  of  faith,  15 — A  companion  volume  to  the  Bible,  16 — 
Offering  the  Gospel  to  others,  16 — Bears  testimony,  16. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   72 

Beyond  comprehension,  72 — An  event  of  great  significance,  73 — 
Keys  of  gathering  bestowed,  73 — Elias  and  his  mission,  74 — In  ful- 
filment of  prediction,  74 — Jewish  tradition  regarding  the  Paschal 
season,  75 — The  coming  of  Elijah,  75 — The  coming  of  the  Lord  is 
near,  75. 

Smith,  Elder  Nicholas  G  114 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed     24 

Teachings  of  the  Master  necessary,  25 — The  crime  of  indifference, 
25 — Faith, lacking,  25 — Illiteracy  in  America,  25 — The  free  agency 
of  man,  26 — America,  the  land  of  opportunity,  26 — Loyalty  to  na- 
tion and  Church,  26. 

Stoof,  Elder  Reinhold   87 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H   31 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   96 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting   76 

Wells,  Elder  John   83 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   37 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A   69 

In  fulfilment  of  ancient  prophecy,  69 — A  courageous  experiment, 
69 — Teaching  religion  in  the  schools,  70 — The  place  of  character  in 
education,  70 — God  and  man — what  they  are,  71 — The  kind  of  con- 
cepts needed  today,  71 — Our  character-training  organizations,  72. 

Woodruff,  Elder  Elias  S   54 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   65 


A  Few  of  the  Books  that  will 
Help  You  to  Understand 
"Mormon  ism" 

The  Book  of  Mormon 

The  latest  edition  comes  to  you  in  four  different  bindings.  Oi  course  the  text 
remains  the  same  but  there  are  added  features  which  make  the  edition  more  complete. 

Missionary  Edition   #  -50 

Cloth  binding,  embossed    1.50 

Full  Morocco    3.00 

The  Gospel  and  Man's  Relationship  to 

Deity 

BY  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

"It  is  to  place  within  their  reach  a  brief  and  simple  exposition  of  the  first  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  that  this  work  has  been  prepared,  and  is  now  presented  to  the 
youth  of  Zion;  and  it  is  the  earnest  hope  of  the  author  that  by  a  patient  perusal  of 
these  pages  those  who  now  believe  the  Gospel  will  find  their  faith  strengthened  and 
confirmed;  and  those  who  do  not  believe  it  will  be  convinced  of  its  truth." 

Price   f1-2' 

The  Story  and  Philosophy  of 
"Mormon  ism" 

BY  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

Comprising  "The  Story"  as  told  in  addresses  at  Cornell  and  Michigan  Universities 
and  elsewhere,  followed  by  an  address  delivered  at  the  Panama-Pacific  Exposition, 
entitled  "The  Philosophical  Basis  of  'Mormonism.'  " 

Cloth   *  *75 

In  Search  of  Truth 

BY  ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE  OF  THE  QUORUM  OF  THE  TWELVE 

Bound  in  Art  Cloth   &1-00 

This  new  book  answers  the  questions,  "What  is  Science"  and  "How  does  the 
Church  view  Science."    A  practical  book  for  our  THINKING,  young  people. 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


"Mormonism 

and 

Freemasonry 

By 

Anthony  W.  Ivins 


"This  brief  treatise  is  addressed  primarily  to  the  members 
of  the  Masonic  fraternity.  The  author  requests  Masons  and 
others  who  may  read  it  to  patiently  consider  its  contents,  and 
in  a  spirit  of  fairness  and  reason  determine  whether  the 
ground  taken  by  the  writer  is  truth  or  error." 


Price  $1.50  Postpaid 

+  2%  Sales  Tax  in  Utah 
Distributed  by  the 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


