NINETY-SEVENTH 

SEMI-ANN  UAL 

CONFERENCE 

Of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Ghrist 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly  Hall 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

October  39  4  and  5,  1926 

With  a  Full  Report  of 
All  the  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Can  you  answer  all  of  the  questions  that  are  put  to  you  about 
the  Church? 

THE  OFFICIAL 

History  of  the  Church 

Will  answer  many  of  these  questions  for  you. 

IN  SIX  LARGE  VOLUMES 

Compiled  by  the  Church  Historians  and  published  by  the  Church. 
Completing  the  First  Period. 

"The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with  introduction  and 
^       notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts. 

Every  Association,  Sunday   School,  Quorum  and   Private  Library 
o       should  have  a  set. 

b  Cloth — Embossed,  per  vol  $2.50  Postpaid 

Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  vol   3.50 

Full  Morocco— Full  Gilt  Edge,  vol   6.00 

The  above  work  is  suggested  as  reference  in  connection  with  the 
study  of  Church  History  in  all  of  the  activities  of  the  Church. 

iiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiii 

For  the  reader  who  does  not  want  this  exhaustive  history,  we  rec- 
ommend the  one  volume  book  entitled 

Essentials  in  Church  History 

by  Joseph  Fielding  Smith. 

"As  the  title  of  the  book  implies,  the  vital  and  essential  points  of 
history  and  doctrine  have  been  selected,  and  as  far  as  possible  arranged 
in  chronological  order." 

PRICE,  CLOTH  BINDING— $1.75 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 


Ninety-Seventh  Semi-Annual  Conference  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints 


FIRST  DAY 

The  97th  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  was, held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
commencing  Sunday  morning'  at  10  o'clock,  October  3,  1926. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided.  There  was  a  large  overflow 
meeting  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  and  in  the  Tabernacle  every  seat  was 
occupied,  with  large  numbers  standing  in  the  side  aisles  and  other 
available  place;  of  the  main  hall  and  galleries.  The  proceedings  were 
broadcasted  by  radio  for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency:  Heber  T.  Grant,  Anthony  W.  Ivins  and 
Charles  W.  Nibley. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Tzvclve :  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot, 
George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David 
O.  McKay,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,*  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R. 
Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  John  A.  Widtsoe. 

Presiding  Patriarch :   Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  B.  H.  Roberts,  J.  Golden  Kim- 
ball, Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi 
Edgar  Young,  Rey  L.  Pratt. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric:  Sylvester  O.  Cannon,  David  A. 
Smith,  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants :  Andrew  Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  William 
Lund,  Junius  F.  Wrells. 

Presidents  of  stakes  with  their  counselors  were  well  represented 
from  the  ninety-six  stakes  of  Zion. 

The  Priesthood  Quorums,  including  the  high  priests,  seventies  and 
elders,  and  bishops  and  their  counselors,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church, 
were  in  attendance;  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations  both  of  men 
.  and  of  women  were  present,  and  also  members  of  the  Board  of  Edu- 
cation. 

Mission  Presidents  were  in  attendance,  as  follozu:  Brigham  H. 
Roberts,  Eastern  States ;  John  H.  Taylor,  Northern  States :  Samuel  O. 


*James  E.  Talmage  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  mission. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Bennion,  Central  States;  John  M.  Knight,  Western  States;  Joseph 
W.  McMurrin,  California;  Brigham  S.  Young,  Northwestern  States; 
Joseph  Quinney,  Jr.,  Canada;  John  G.  Allred,  Northcentral  States; 
Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States ;  Rey  L.  Pratt,  Mexico ;  Benjamin 
Goddard,  Bureau  of  Information,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

President  Grant  announced  that  Elder  Charles  H.  Hart,  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy,  would  preside  at  the  Assembly  Hall  over- 
flow meeting. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a 
prophet." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Edward  J.  Wood,  presi- 
dent of  the  Alberta  stake. 

The  hymn,  "An  angel  from  on  high,"  was  sung  by  Cyrus  Martin, 
Irene  Rich  and  the  Tabernacle  choir. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  am  very  thankful  indeed  for  the  opportunity  of  meeting  with 
the  Saints  in  another  General  Conference.  I  rejoice  in  the  very  splendid 
turnout  that  we  see  here  today,  and  realize  that,  even  with  the  overflow 
meeting  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  there  are  many  who  will  be  disappointed 
in  not  getting  room  in  this  building  or  the  adjoining  one.  But  it  is 
estimated  that  fully  one  hundred  thousand  people  will  hear  these  services 
today  over  the  radio. 

I  understand  that  the  amplifier  installed  here  will  make  it  entirely 
unnecessary  for  me  to  raise  my  voice  beyond  that  which  would  be 
needed  in  an  ordinary  hall.  I  am  very  glad  of  this  for  the  reason  that 
exerting  oneself  in  order  to  be  heard  is  very  much  more  of  a  strain 
than  to  talk  in  just  an  ordinary  voice.  I  should  be  very  glad  to  know  if 
any  in  this  audience  are  failing  to  hear  distinctly  what  I  am  saying  at 
the  present  time.  If  so,  will  they  kindly  raise  their  hands.  I  discover 
that  everybody  is  hearing  my  remarks,  and  I  am  not  talking  any  louder 
than  would  be  necessary  in  a  room  containing  only  a  few  hundred 
people. 

I  earnestly  and  sincerely  desire  the  faith  and  prayers  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  to  attend  not  only  myself  but  all  of  the  speakers  during 
this  conference,  that  they  may  be  inspired  by  the  Lord  to  say  those 
things  which  will  be  calculated  in  their  nature  to  encourage  the  Saints 
to  renewed  diligence  in  discharging  the  duties  and  obligations  that  rest 
upon  them  as  members  of  the  Church. 

CHANGES  IN  OFFICERS 

It  will  be  interesting  to  you,  no  doubt,  to  know  regarding  the 
changes  that  have  taken  place  since  our  last  conference. 

The  Wayne  stake  now  has  a  new  president^Brother  William 
F.  Webster. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


Mission  presidents  released  and  appointed  during  the  past  six 
months : 

Mark  V.  Coombs  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Tongan 
mission,  and  J.  A.  Cahoon  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

Eugene  J.  Neff  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Hawaiian 
mission,  and  William  M,  Waddoups  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

J.  Wyley  Sessions  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  South 
African  mission,  and  Samuel  Martin  appointed  as  his  successor. 

Melvin  J.  Ballard  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  South 
American  mission,  and  Karl  B.  R.  Stoof  appointed  as  his  successor. 

Brother  Kenneth  L.  Haymore  has  been  released  as  acting-president 
of  the  Mexican  mission  on  account  of  the  return  of  Rey  L.  Pratt, 
president  of  that  mission,  from  South  America. 

Hyrum  W.  Valentine  has  been  appointed  to  succeed  Fred  Tadje 
as  president  of  the  German- Austrian  mission. 

The  following  new  wards  have  been  organized : 

Eden  ward,  Minidoka  stake;  Emerson  ward,  Minidoka  stake, 
Hazelton  ward,  Minidoka  stake;  Ogden  19th  ward,  Weber  stake; 
Conda  ward,  Idaho  stake;  Wendell  ward,  Blaine  stake;  Jewett  ward, 
Young  stake ;  Ely  ward,  Nevada  stake. 

NEW    STAKES  ORGANIZED 

Lyman  stake,  formerly  a  part  of  Woodruff  stake,  President  Melvin 
H.  Rollins. 

Nevada  stake,  formerly  a  part  of  North  Weber  stake,  Carl  K. 
Conrad,  president. 

Bishops  who  have  died:  William  C.  Hegstrom  of  Central  ward, 
Bannock  stake,  and  Bishop  John  A.  Hunt  of  St.  Charles,  Bear  Lake 
stake. 

At  the  present  time  we  have  96  stakes  of  Zion,  915  wards  and  74 
independent  branches,  making  989  wards  and  branches.  And  we  have 
27  missions. 

alma's  cry  for  repentance 

I  will  read  from  the  29th  chapter  of  Alma  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon : 

"O  that  I  were  an  angel,  and  could  have  the  wish  of  mine  heart,  that  I 
might  go  forth  and  speak  with  the  trump  of  God,  with  a  voice  to  shake  the  earth, 
and  cry  repentance  unto  every  people ! 

"Yea,  I  would  declare  unto  every  soul,  as  with  the  voice  of  thunder,  re- 
pentance and  the  plan  of  redemption,  that  they  should  repent  and  come  unto  our 
God,  that  there  might  not  be  more  sorrow  upon  all  the  face  of  the  earth. 

"But  behold,  I  am  a  man,  and  do  sin  in  my  wish;  for  I  ought  to  be  content 
with  the  things  which  the  Lord  hath  allotted  unto  me. 

"I  ought  not  to  harrow  up  in  my  desires,  the  firm  decree  of  a  just  God, 
for  I  know  that  he  granteth  unto  men  according  to  their  desire,  whether  it 
be  unto  death  or  unto  life;  yea,  I  know  that  he  allotteth  unto  men  according 
to  their  wills,  whether  they  be  unto  salvation  or  unto  destruction. 

"Yea,  and  I  know  that  good  and  evil  have  come  before  all  men;  he  that 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


knoweth  nut  good  from  evil  is  blameless;  but  he  that  knoweth  good  and  evil,  to 
him  it  is  given  according  to  his  desires,  whether  he  desireth  good  or  evil,  life  or 
death,  joy  or  remorse  of  conscience. 

"Now,  seeing  that  I  know  these  things,  why  should  I  desire  more  than  to 
perform  the  work  to  which  I  have  been  called? 

"Why  should  I  desire  that  I  were  an  angel,  that  I  could  speak  unto  all  the 
ends  of  the  earth? 

"For  behold,  the  Lord  doth  grant  unto  all  nations,  of  their  own  nation  and 
tongue,  to  teach  his  word,  yea,  in  wisdom,  all  that  he  seeth  fit  that  they  should 
have ;  therefore  we  see  that  the  Lord  doth  counsel  in  wisdom,  according  to  that 
which  is  just  and  true. 

"I  know  that  which  the  Lord  hath  commanded  me,  and  I  glory  in  it.  I  do 
not  glory  of  myself,  but  I  glory  in  that  which  the  Lord  hath  commanded  me ; 
yea,  and  this  is  my  glory,  that  perhaps  I  may  be  an  instrument  in  the  hands 
of  God  to  bring  some  soul  to  repentance;  and  this  is  my  joy." 

THE  JOY  OF  MISSIONARY  WORK 

I  believe  that  every  Latter-day  Saint  who  has  received  a  testimony 
of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  has  this  same 
feeling  that  Alma  had — a  desire  that  all  the  world  might  hear  the 
testimony  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  When  men  and 
women  receive  a  testimony  of  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  they  are  anxious  that  all  the  world  should  have  that  same 
knowledge  and  faith.  They  are  anxious  that  the  gospel  should  go  to 
every  honest  soul.  And  there  is  no  other  labor  in  all  the  world  that 
brings  to  a  human  heart,  judging  from  my  own  personal  experience, 
more  joy,  peace  and  serenity  than  proclaiming  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  I  remember  that  while  I  was  laboring  in  Japan,  on  account 
of  my  failure  to  learn  the  language,  I  was  not  entirely  happy  in  my  work 
there.  I  remember  going  out  into  the  woods,  kneeling  down  and  pray- 
ing to  God  that  when  my  work  was  finished  there  I  would  appreciate 
it  if  I  were  called  to  the  British  Isles  to  succeed  Brother  Francis  M. 
Lyman.  Shortly  after  uttering  that  prayer  I  received  a  cable :  "Come 
home  on  the  first  vessel."  When  I  arrived  home  President  Smith  told 
me  that  they  had  decided  to  send  me  to  Europe  to  succeed  Brother 
Lyman.  He  said,  "We  realize  that  the  two  years  or  more  that  you 
have  been  in  Japan  have  been  anything  but  satisfactory  from  the  stand- 
point of  the  joy  that  comes  into  the  hearts  of  the  missionaries  in  bring- 
ing souls  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  we  want  you  to  have  at  least 
a  year  of  real,  genuine,  missionary  experience."  When  I  went  into  his 
office  and  bade  him  goodbye,  and  said,  "I  will  see  you  in  a  year,"  he 
said,  "We  have  decided  to  make  it  a  year  and  a  half."  I  said,  "Multiply 
it  by  two  and  say  nothing  about  it,  and  it  will  please  me,"  and  that 
is  exactly  what  he  did.  I  was  there  a  little  over  three  years,  and  never 
have  I  had  sweeter  joy,  more  genuine  satisfaction  in  my  life  than 
during  those  three  years,  when  I  had  no  thought  except  the  spreading 
of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

THE  WORTH  OF  SOULS 

We  have  recorded  in  the  18th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants the  following: 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


"Remember,  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of  God ; 

"For,  behold,  the  Lord  your  Redeemer  suffered  death  in  the  flesh;  wherefore, 
he  suffered  the  pain  of  all  men,  that  all  men  might  repent  and  come  unto  him. 

"And  he  hath  risen  again  from  the  dead,  that  he  might  bring  all  men  unto 
him,  on  conditions  of  repentance. 

"And  how  great  is  his  joy  in  the  soul  that  repenteth ! 

"Wherefore,  you  are  called  to  cry  repentance  unto  this  people. 

"And'  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  j  our  days  in  crying  repentance 
unto  this  people  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto  me,  how  great  shall  be  your 
joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  father! 

"And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great  with  one  soul  that  you  have  brought 
unto  me  into  the  kingdom  of  my  father,  how  great  will  be  your  joy  if  you  should 
bring  many  souls  unto  me ! 

"Behold,  you  have  my  gospel  before  you,  and  my  rock,  and  my  salvation. 

"Ask  the  Father  in  my  name,  in  faith,  believing  that  you  shall  receive,  and 
you  shall  have  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  manifesteth  all  things  which  are  expedient 
unto  the  children  of  men. 

"And  if  you  have  not  faith,  hope  and  charity,  you  can  dc  nothing.    *    *  * 

"Behold,  Jesus  Christ  is  the  name  which  is  given  of  the  Father,  and  there 
is  none  other  name  given  whereby  man  can  be  saved." 

The  foregoing  revelation  was  given  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  to  Oliver  Cowdery  and  David  Whitmer,  and  they  were  instructed 
to  seek  out  twelve  apostles  who  should  have  the  spirit  of  the  mission  to 
go  forth  and  proclaim  the  gospel  of  glad  tidings  which  the  voice  out 
of  the  heavens  declared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  Sidney 
Rigdon,  as  follows : 

"And  this  is  the  gospel,  the  glad  tidings  which  the  voice  out  of  the  heavens 
bore  record  unto  us — 

"That  he  came  into  the  world,  even  Jesus,  to  be  crucified  for  the  world, 
and  to  bear  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  to  sanctify  the  world,  and  to  cleanse  it 
from  all  unrighteousness; 

"That  through  him  all  might  be  saved  whom  the  Father  had  put  into  his 
power  and  made  by  him."    (Doc.  and  Cov.  76:40-42.) 

MEN  HAVE  SEEN  CHRIST  IN  OUR  DAY 

In  that  same  revelation  we  find,  and  I  have  repeated  it  time 
and  time  again: 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him,  this 
is  the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him:  That  he  lives! 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  only  begotten  of  the  father — 

"That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were  created, 
and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto  God." 

We  have  this  testimony  to  bear  to  the  world,  that  men  in  our  day 
have  seen  Jesus  Christ;  that  he  has  restored  to  the  earth  the  gospel 
of  life  and  salvation ;  that  in  the  Kirtland  temple  the  Savior  appeared 
to  Oliver  Cowdery  and  Joseph  Smith,  also  Moses,  Elias  and  Elijah  and 
that  the  keys  of  every  dispensation  of  the  gospel  were  committed  into 
the  hands  of  those  two  men.  They  were  given  this  authority  and  it  is 
a  source  of  great  joy.    (Doc.  and  Cov.  110.) 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


WHAT  THE  CHURCH  IS  DOING  TO  PROCLAIM  THE  GOSPEL 

I  rejoice  in  announcing  that  the  Church  is  doing  more  today  in 
the  spreading  of  the  gospel,  and  it  has  a  larger  body  of  missionaries  in 
the  field  proclaiming  the  gospel,  than  at  any  other  time  in  its  history. 
A  year  ago  we  called  for  volunteers  of  men  of  maturity,  men  of 
experience  and  testimony,  men  who  were  seasoned  in  the  gospel,  to  go 
out  into  the  field  for  a  period  of  six  months.  Hundreds  responded 
to  that  call,  and  I  have  listened  to  some  of  the  most  remarkable  and 
wonderful  testimonies  of  the  manifestations  and  blessings  of  the  Lord 
to  those  men,  as  I  have  conversed  with  them  upon  their  return  home, 
that  I  have  ever  heard.  The  signs  verily  follow  the  believer  in  this 
Church,  and  people  receive  the  witness  of  the  Spirit  wherever  the 
gospel  is  preached. 

THE  COMMAND  TO  PREACH  THE  GOSPEL  SUPREME 

I  have  culled  out  a  few  quotations  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
that  I  would  like  to  read  here: 

"Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature,  acting  in 
the  authority  which  I  have  given  you,  baptizing  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  and 
of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost." 

"And  he  that  believeth  shall  be  blest  with  signs  following,  even  as  it  is 
written." — (Section  68:  verses  8,  10.) 

"And  this  gospel  shall  be  preached  unto  every  nation,  and  kindred,  and 
tongue,  and  people. 

"And  the  servants  of  God  shall  go  forth,  saying  with  a  loud  voice :  Fear 
God  and  give  glory  to  him,  for  the  hour  of  his  judgment  is  come; 

"And  worship  him  that  made  heaven,  and  earth,  and,  the  sea,  and  the  foun- 
tains of  water." — (Section  133:37-39.) 

"I  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do  what  I  say ;  but  when  ye  do  not  what 
I  say,  ye  have  no  promise." — (Section  82:10.) 

The  one  supreme  thing  that  devolves  upon  me,  upon  you  and  upon 
every  Latter-day  Saint  is  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  in  public  and  in  private,  and  above  all  to  proclaim  the 
gospel  in  our  lives,  by  being  absolutely  honest  in  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord. 

WHO  IS  FITTED  TO  TEACH  THE  GOSPEL? 

No  man  can  teach  the  Latter-day  Saints  under  the  inspiration  of 
the  Spirit  of  the  living  God,  or  proclaim  to  the  world,  that  there  has 
come  a  commandment  from  the  Lord  in  our  day  for  men  to  observe  the 
ancient  law  of  tithing,  unless  that  man  is  a  conscientious  and  honest 
tithe-payer.  On  the  other  hand,  the  inspiration  of  the  living  God 
attends  those  men  who  proclaim  the  law  of  tithing  when  they  are 
obeying  it  themselves.  No  man  can,  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord,  warm  the  hearts  of  the  Saints,  or  benefit  the  people  of 
the  world,  by  proclaiming  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  who  does  not  obey  it 
himself.  But  the  man  who  obeys  the  Word  of  Wisdom  can  touch  the 
hearts  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  proclaiming  that  wonderful  revela- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRAN1 


7 


tion  that  the  Lord  has  given  to  us  for  our  health  and  our  benefit,  and 
above  all  that  has  been  given  to  us  with  a  promise  attached  thereto. 
I  desire  to  read  that  revelation  from  first  to  last: 

THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM 

"A  Word  of  Wisdom  for  the  benefit  of  the  council  of  High  Priests, 
assembled  in  Kirtland,  and  the  Church,  also  the  saints  in  Zion — 

"To  be  sent  greeting;  not  by  commandment  or  constraint,  but  by  revelation 
and  the  word  of  wisdom,  showing  forth  the  order  and  will  of  God  in  the 
temporal  salvation  of  all  saints  in  the  last  days—" 

And  let  me  say  right  here  that  I  am  convinced  beyond  the  shadow 
of  a  doubt  that  if  the  Latter-day  Saints  had  observed  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  and  if  the  money  that  has  been  worse  than  wasted  for  tea, 
coffee,  tobacco  and  liquor,  had  been  utilized  for  missionary  service, 
we  would  have  had  the  millions  of  .  dollars  for  the  work  of  the  Lord 
that  has  been  expended  for  that  which  the  Lord  Almighty  says  is  not 
good  for  man. 

"Given  for  a  principle  with  premise,  adapted  to  the  capacity  of  the  weak  and 
the  weakest  of  all  saints,  who  are  or  can  be  called  saints. 

"Behold,  verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  you:  In  consequence  of  evils 
and  designs  which  do  and  will  exist  in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men  in  the  last 
days,  I  have  warned  you,  and  forewarn  you,  by  giving  unto  you  this  word  of 
wisdom  by  revelation — 

"That  inasmuch  as  any  man  drinketh  wine  or  strong  drink  among  you, 
behold  it  is  not  good,  neither  meet  in  the  sight  of  your  Father,  only  in  assembling 
yourselves  together  to  offer  up  your  sacraments  before  him. 

"And,  behold,  this  should  be  wine,  yea,  pure  wine  of  the  grape  of  the  vine, 
of  your  own  make. 

"And,  again,  strong  drinks  are  not  for  the  belly,  but  for  the  washing  of 
your  bodies. 

"And,  again,  tobacco  is  not  for  the  body,  neither  for  the  belly,  and  is  not 
good  for  man,  but  is  an  herb  for  bruises  and  all  sick  cattle  to  be  used  with 
judgment  and  skill. 

"And,  again,  hot  drinks  are  not  for  the  body  or  belly. 

"And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  all  wholesome  herbs  God  hath  ordained 
for  the  constitution,  nature  and  use  of  man — 

"Every  herb  in  the  season  thereof,  and  every  fruit  in  the  season  thereof ; 
all  these  to  be  used  with  prudence  and  thanksgiving. 

"Yea,  flesh  also  of  beasts  and  of  fowls  of  the  air,  I,  the  Lord,  have  ordained 
for  the  use  of  man  with  thanksgiving ;  nevertheless  they  are  to  be  used  sparingly ; 

"And  it  is  pleasing  unto  me  that  they  should  not  be  used,  only  in  times  of 
winter,  or  of  cold,  or  famine. 

"All  grain  is  ordained  for  the  use  of  man  and  of  beasts,  to  be  the  staff  of 
life,  not  only  for  man  but  for  the  beasts  of  the  field,  and  the  fowls  of  heaven, 
and  all  wild  animals  that  run  or  creep  on  the  earth ; 

"And  these  hath  God  made  for  the  use  of  man  only  in  times  of  famine 
and  excess  of  hunger. 

"All  grain  is  good  for  the  food  of  man ;  as  also  the  fruit  of  the  vine ;  that 
which  yieldeth  fruit,  whether  in  the  ground  or  above  the  ground. 

"Nevertheless,  wheat  for  man,  and  corn  for  the  ox,  and  oats  for  the  horse, 
and  rye  for  the  fowls  and  for  swine,  and  for  all  beasts  of  the  field,  and  barley 
for  all  useful  animals,  and  for  mild  drinks,  as  also  other  grain. 

"And  all  saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking  in 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

i  bedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel  and  marrow 
ill  their  bones ; 

"And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures ; 

"And  shall  run  and,  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint. 
"And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying  angel 
shall  pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them.  Amen." 

Let  me  read  again: 

"I,  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do  what  I  say;  but  when  ycu  do  not 
what  I  say,  ye  have  no  promise." 

PROMISES  OF  GOD  CONDITIONED  ON  OBEDIENCE 

There  is  no  promise  made  to  you  or  to  me  or  to  any  Latter-day 
Saint  that  the  destroying  angel  shall  pass  us  by,  or  that  we  shall  have 
hidden  treasures  of  knowledge,  unless  we  obey  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
and  the  way  above  all  other  ways  for  men  and  women  to  teach  their 
children  the  necessity  of  obeying  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  by  obeying 
it  themselves. 

"There  is  a  law  irrevocably  decreed,  in  heaven  before  the  foundations  of  this 
world,  upen  which  all  blessings  are  predicated —  * 

"And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that 
law  upon  which  it  is  predicated."    (Doc.  and  Cov.  130:20,  21.  ) 

I  believe  beyond  the  shadow  of  a  doubt  that  there  are  hundreds 
and  thousands  of  Latter-day  Saints  who  but  for  the  obeying  of  the 
Word  of  Wisdom  would  not  be  here  today.  When  they  have  been 
attacked  by  serious  diseases  and  have  been  in  a  critical  condition 
physically,  having  obeyed  that  law,  having  fulfilled  an  irrevocable  law 
of  God,  he  was  bound  to  bestow  the  promised  blessings,  and  they  have 
come  to  the  afflicted  ones. 

PARENTS  MUST  TEACH  THEIR  CHILDREN  BY  EXAMPLE 

We  find  recorded  in  section  68  : 

"And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents  have  children  in  Zion,  cr  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized,  that  teach  them  not  to  understand  the  doctrine  of 
repentance,  faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  and  of  baptism  and  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands,  when  eight  years  old,  the 
sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents." 

"For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the  inhabitants  of  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized. 

"And  their  children  shall  he  baptized  for  the  remission  of  their  sins  when 
eight  years  old,  and  receive  the  laying  on  of  the  hands." 

"And  they  shall  also  teach  their  children  to  prav,  and  to  walk  uprightly 
before  the  Lord." 

And  the  best  way  in  the  world  to  teach  your  children  to  pray  and 
to  walk  uprightly  before  the  Lord  is  to  pray  yourselves,  thus  setting 
an  example  of  prayer,  and  to  walk  uprightly  before  the  Lord  yourselves. 
When  a  man  fails  to  be  honest  as  a  tithe-payer,  when  he  fails  to  observe 
the  Word  of  Wisdom,  the  teaching  of  his  children  to  obey  those  laws 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GR.  INT 


9 


will  have  but  very  little  effect.  There  is  more  in  example  than  can 
possibly  come  by  teaching.  No  amount  of  knowledge  will  save  a  man; 
no  amount  of  marvelous  revelations  and  visions  and  dreams  will  save 
a  man.  But  the  keeping  of  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  and  the 
obeying  of  those  things  which  the  Lord  has  revealed  to  us  for  our 
salvation,  will  give  us  a  power  and  influence  with  our  children  for  good, 
and  we  will  be  able  to  make  an  impression  upon  their  hearts  that  will 
keep  them  in  the  straight  and  narrow  path  which  leads  to  life  eternal. 

JOSIAH  QUINCY'S  TESTIMONY  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH 

When  I  picked  up  the  memorandum  that  is  supplied  to  me  of  the 
songs  that  are  to  be  sung  here  this  morning,  I  found  that  the  first  song 
that  we  were  to  sing  today  was,  ''We  thank,  thee,  O  God,  for  a  Pro- 
phet," and  I  remembered  and  immediately  hunted  up  the  quotation,  a 
very  remarkable  tribute  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  from  Josiah 
Qjuincy,  at  one  time  the  mayor  of  the  great  city  of  Boston;  and  while 
it  has  been  read  time  and  time  again  in  our  hearing,  and  published  often 
at  home  and  abroad,  I  thought  I  would  like  to  read  to  you  again  the 
wonderful  testimony  of  Josiah  Ouincy,  from  a  book  entitled,  The  Figures 
of  the  Past.   He  says: 

"It  is  by  no  means  improbable  tbat  some  future  text-book  for  the  use  of 
generations  yet  unborn  will  contain  a  question  something  like  this :  'What 
historic  American  of  the  nineteenth  century  has  wielded  the  most  powerful 
influence  upen  the  destinies  of  his  country-men?'  And  it  is  by  no  means  im- 
possible that  the  answer  to  this  interrogatory  may  be  thus  written :  'Joseph 
Smith,  the  "Mormon"  Prophet.'  And  the  reply,  absured  as  it  doubtless  seems 
to  most  men  now  living,  may  be  an  obvious  commcnplace  to  their  descendants. 
History  deals  in  surprises  and  paradoxes  quite  as  startling  as  this.  The  man 
who  established  a  religion  in  this  age  of  free  debate,  who  was  and  is  today 
accepted  by  hundreds  of  thousands  as  a  direct  emissary  from  the  Most  High — 
such  a  rare  human  being  is  not  to  lie  disposed  of  by  pelting  his  memory  with 
unsavory  epithets.  Fanatic,  imposter,  charlatan,  he  may  have  been ;  but  these 
hard  names  furnish  no  solution  to  the  problem  he  presents  to  us.  Fanatics  and 
imposters  are  living  and  dying  every  day.  and  their  memory  is  buried  with 
them;  but  the  wonderful  influence  which  this  fqunder  of  a  religion  exerted  and 
still  exerts  throws  him  into  a  relief  before  us,  not  as  a  rogue  to  be  incriminated, 
but  as  a  phenomenon  to  be  explained.  The  most  vital  questions  Americans  are 
asking  each  ether  today  have  to  do  with  this  man  and  what  he  has  left  us.  *  * 
A  generation  other  than  mine  must  deal  with  these  questions.  Burning  questions 
they  are,  which  must  give  a  prominent  place  in  the  history  of  the  country  to 
that  sturdy  self-asserter  whom  T  visited  at  Nauvoo.  Joseph  Smith,  claiming  to 
be  an  inspired,  teacher,  faced  adversity  such  as  few  men  have  been  called  to  meet, 
enjeyed  a  brief  season  of  prosperity  such  as  few  men  have  ever  attained,  and 
finally,  forty-three  clays  after  T  saw  him,  went  cheerfully  to  a  martyr's  death. 
When  he  surrendered  his  person  to  Governor  Ford,  in  order  to  prevent  the 
shedding  of  blood,  the  prophet  had,  a  presentiment  of  what  was  before  him,  'I 
am  gi  ing  like  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter,'  he  is  reported  to  have  said,  'but  I  am  as 
calm  as  a  Summer's  morning.  I  have  a  conscience  void  of  offense  and  shall 
die  innocent'." 

(And  a  further  quotation:    "And  it  shall  yet  be  said  that  I  was 
murdered  in  cold  blood,"  which  is  not  in  Josiah  Quincy's  statement.) 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"I  have  no  theory  to  advance  respecting  this  extra-ordinary  man.  I  shall 
simply  give  the  facts  of  my  intercourse  with  him. 

"A  fine  looking  man  is  what  the  passer-by  would  instinctively  have  murmured 
upon  meeting  the  remarkable  individual  who  had  fashioned  the  mold  which 
was  to  shape  the  feelings  of  so  many  thousands  of  his  fellow  mortals.  But 
Smith  was  more  than  this,  and  one  could  not  resist  the  impression  that 
capacity  and  resource  were  natural  t9  his  stalwart  person.  I  have  already  men- 
tioned the  resemblance  he  bore  to  Elisha  R.  Potter  of  Rhode  Island,  whom 
1  met  in  Washington  in  1826.  The  likeness  was  not  such  as  would  be  recognized 
in  a  picture  but  rather  one  that  would  be  felt  in  a  grave  emergency. 

"Of  all  men  I  have  met  these  two  seemed  best  endowed  with  that  kindly 
faculty  which  directs,  as  by  intrinsic  right,  the  feeble  or  confused  souls  who  are 
looking  for  guidance. 

"We  then  went  on  to  talk  of  politics.  Smith  recognized  the  curse  and 
iniquity  of  slavery,  though  he  opposed  the  methods  of  the  abolitionists.  His 
plan  was  for  the  nation  to  pay  for  the  slaves  from  the  sale  of  the  public  lands. 
'Congress,'  he  said,  'should  be  compelled  to  take  this  course,  by  petitions  from 
all  parts  of  the  country ;  but  the  petitioners  must  disclaim  all  alliance  not  rec- 
ognized by  the  Constitution  and  which  foment  insurrection.'  It  may  be  worth 
while  to  remark  that  Smith's  plan  was  publicly  advocated  eleven  years  later 
by  one  who  mixed  so  much  practical  shrewdness  with  his  lofty  philosophy. 
In  1855,  when  men's  minds  had  been  moved  to  their  depths  on  the  question  of 
slavery,  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  declared  that  it  should  be  met  in  accordance 
'with  the  interest  of  the  south  and  with  the  settled  conscience  of  the  north. 
It  is  not  really  a  great  task,  a  great  fight  for  this  country  to  accomplish,  to 
buy  the  property  of  the  planter,  as  the  British  nation  bought  the  West  Indian 
slaves.'  He  further  says  that  the  United  States  will  be  brought  to  give  every 
inch  of  their  public  lands  for  a  purpose  like  this.'  We  who  can  look  back  upon 
the  terrible  cost  of  the  fratricidal  war  which  put  an  end  to  slavery,  now  say 
that  such  a  solution  of  the  difficulty  would  have  been  worthy  a  Christian 
statesman.  But  if  the  retired  scholar  was  in  advance  of  his  time  when  he 
advocated  this  disposition  of  the  public  property  in  1855,  what  shall  I  say  of 
the  political  and  religious  leader  who  had  committed  himself,  in  print  as  well  as 
in  conversation,  to  the  same  course  in  1844?  If  the  atmosphere  of  men's  opinions 
were  stirred  by  such  a  proposition  when  war  clouds  were  discernible  in  the 
sky,  was  it  not  a  statesmanlike  word  eleven  years  earlier  when  the  heavens 
looked  tranquil  and  beneficent?" 

It  was  a  statesmanlike  and  an  inspired  proposition  from  a  man 
who  was  in  very  deed  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  living  God. 

"General  Smith  proceeded  to  unfold  still  further  his  views  upon  politics. 
He  denounced  the  Missouri  Compromise  as  an  unjustifiable  concession  for  the 
benefit  of  slavery.  It  was  Henry  Clay's  bid  for  the  presidency.  Dr.  Goforth 
might  have  spared  himself  the  trouble  of  coming  to  Nauvoo  to  electioneer  for 
a  duelhst  who  would  fire  at  John  Randolph,  but  was  not  brave  enough  to  protect 
the  Saints  in  their  rights  as  American  citizens.  Clay  told  his  (Smith's)  people 
to  go  to  the  wilds  of  Oregon  and  set  up  a  government  of  their  own.  Oh,  yes, 
the  Saints  might  go  into  the  wilderness  and  obtain  the  justice  of  the  Indians, 
which  imbecile,  time-serving  politicians  would  not  give  them  in  the  land  of 
freedom  and  equality.  The  prophet  then  talked  of  the  details  of  government. 
He  thought  the  number  of  members  admitted  to  the  lower  house  of  the  national 
legislature  should  be  reduced.  A  crowd  only  darkened  counsel  and  .  impeded 
business.  A  member  for  every  half  million  of  population  would  be  ample.  The 
powers  of  the  president  should  be  increased.  He  should  have  authority  to  put 
down  rebellion  in  a  state,  without  waiting  for  the  request  of  any  governor ;  for 
it  might  happen  that  the  governor  himself  would  be  the  leader  of  the  rebels. 
It  is  needless  to  remark  how  later  events  showed  the  executive  weakness  that 
bmitn  pointed  out — a  weakness  which  cost  millions  of  treasure.    *    *  * 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


"Born  in  the  lowest  ranks  of  poverty,  without  book  learning  and  with  the 
homeliest  of  all  human  names,  he  had  made  himself  at  the  age  of  39  a  power 
upon  the  earth.  Of  the  multitudinous  family  of  Smiths,  none  had  so  won 
human  hearts  and  shaped  human  lives  as  this  Joseph.  His  influence,  whether 
for  good  or  evil,  is  potent  today,  and  the  end  is  not  yet. 

"I  have  endeavored  to  give  the  details  of  my  visit  to  the  'Mormon'  prophet 
with  absolute  accuracy.  If  the  reader  does  not  know  just  what  to  make  of 
Joseph  Smith,  I  cannot  help  him  out  of  the  difficulty.  I  myself  stand  helpless 
before  the  puzzle." 

JOSEPH  SMITH'S  PROPHECY  OF  THE  MIGRATION  WEST 

The  Latter-day  Saints  do  not  stand  helpless  before  the  puzzle. 
They  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  inspiration  of  the  man  who  prophesied 
that  "the  Latter-day  Saints  would  continue  to  suffer  much  affliction  and 
many  would  be  put  to  death  by  their  persecutors,  and  others  would  lose 
their  lives  in  consequence  of  exposure  or  disease,  but  some  would  live 
to  go  and  make  settlements,  build  cities  and  see  the  Saints  become  a 
mighty  people  in  the  midst  of  the  Rocky  Mountains." 

What  kind  of  a  place  was  the  Rocky  Mountains  when  this  re- 
markable prophecy  was  uttered?  One  of  the  greatest  American  states- 
men, Daniel  Webster,  is  reported  to  have  said  regarding  it: 

"What  do  we  want  with  this  vast,  worthless  area?  This  region  of  savages 
and  wild  beasts,  of  deserts  of  shifting  sands  and  whirlwinds  of  dust,  of  cactus 
and  prairie  dogs  ?  To  what  use  could  we  ever  hope  to  put  these  great  deserts 
or  those  endless  mountain  ranges,  impenetrable  and  covered  to  their  very  base 
with  eternal  snow?  What  can  we  ever  hope  to  do  with  the  western  coast  of 
three  thousand  miles,  rock-bound,  cheerless,  uninviting  and  not  a  harbor  on  it? 
Mr.  President,  I  will  never  vote  one  cent  from  the  public  treasury  to  place  the 
Pacific  coast  one  inch  nearer  Boston  than  it  now  is." 

GOVERNMENT  PLACED  STAMP  OF  DIVINITY  ON  PROPHET'S  UTTERANCE 

I  rejoice  in  an  individual  testimony  of  the  truth  of  the  statements 
of  Joseph  Smith,  that  his  name  should  be  had  for  good  and  evil  in 
all  parts  of  the  world ;  that  the  time  would  come  when  not  only  a  city, 
a  county  and  a  state  should  be  arrayed  against  the  handful  of  people 
called  "Mormons,"  but  the  day  would  come  when  the  whole  United 
States  of  America  should  be  arrayed  against  them.  And  the  army  of  the 
United  States  was  sent  against  them,  and  the  government  of  the  United 
States  did  confiscate  all  of  the  property  belonging  to  the  Church.  Day 
after  day  and  month  after  month  during  the  litigation  for  the  return 
of  the  Church  property  I  picked  up  the  paper  and  read,  "The  United 
States  of  America  versus  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints."  And  I  have  laid  the  paper  down  and  said,  "Thank  the  Lord 
that  the  United  States  have  placed  the  stamp  of  divinity  upon  the 
utterances  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith." 

THE  GREAT  OBLIGATION  OF  THE  SAINTS  TO  DECLARE  THE  RESTORATION 

Our  boys  and  girls  go  out  into  the  world  with  a  love  of  the  gospel, 
young,  inexperienced  men  and  women,  and  God  gives  to  them  the 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


witness  of  the  Spirit  and  an  individual  testimony  so  that  they  can  stand 
up  and  say  before  all  the  world,  "I  know  that  God  lives,  I  know  that 
|esus  is  the  Christ,  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  the  true 
and  living  God,  and  that  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  plan 
of  life  and  salvation,  has  been  restored  to  the  earth  through  his  in- 
strumentality. The  one  and  great  thing  that  devolves  upon  me,  upon 
you,  and  upon  all  Latter-day  Saints  is  that  this  proclamation  shall  be 
sent  to  all  the  world,  and  I  rejoice  in  knowing  that  it  has  never  been 
carried  with  more  force  and  by  a  greater  number  of  faithful,  diligent 
workers  than  at  the  present  time. 

May  God  bless  each  and  every  one  of  us  who  has  a  testimony  and 
a  knowledge  that  He  lives  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  . a  prophet  of  the  true  and  living  God,  so  to  order  our 
lives  that  all  men  seeing  our  diligence,  our  humility,  our  charity, 
our  love  of  our  fellows,  may  be  led  to  investigate  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  our  Redeemer. 
Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

CONCERNING   PLURAL  MARRIAGES 

Here  is  a  statement  that  I  would  like  to  read :  "Notwithstanding 
frequent  verbal  and  printed  instructions  issued  by  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith  and  counselors  to  the  effect  that  the  solemnization  of  plural 
marriages  was  prohibited  by  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  these  instructions  having  been  reiterated  time  and  time  again 
by  myself  as  President,  cases  occasionally  arise  where  certain  individuals 
are  teaching  that  it  is  legitimate  to  enter  into  plural  marriage,  and  that 
such  marriages  can  be  performed  by  certain  members  of  the  Church 
claiming  to  have  authority  to  do  so. 

"The  revelations  of  the  Lord  inform  us  most  plainly  that  there  is 
but  one  man  on  earth  at  a  time  who  holds  the  keys  of  this  sealing  power  ; 
namely,  the  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  As  President  of  the  Church,  I  once  again  solemnly  declare 
that  no  man  living  has  the  authority  to  solemnize  a  plural  marriage; 
and  I  hereby  announce  that  it  is  the  bounden  duty  of  every  Latter-day 
Saint,  male  and  female,  who  knows  of  any  such  pretended  marriage 
being  performed,  to  inform  the  proper  officers  of  the  Church,  in  order 
that  the  Church's  honor  may  be  maintained  and  that  such  individuals 
may  be  dealt  with  according  to  the  rules  and  regulations  of  the  Church 
and  excommunicated  therefrom." 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


13 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  rejoice  greatly,  and  praise  the  Lord, 
who  is  our  strength,  and  upon  whom  we  depend  for  guidance  and 
support,  for  the  manifestation  of  his  goodness  to  us  as  it  is  exemplified 
in  this  large  assembly  of  Latter-day  Saints  who  are  gathered  here  for 
the  semi-annual  conference  of  the  Church. 

As  I  look  upon  this  congregation  and  review  the  circumstances 
which  have  brought  it  together,  going  back  into  the  remote  past,  and 
see,  or  appear  to  see,  how  literally  the  Lord  fulfills  his  promises  to 
people  with  whom  he  enters  into  covenant,  my  heart  is  made  to  rejoice. 

PURPOSE  OF  THESE  GENERAL  ASSEMBLIES 

The  purpose  of  these  general  assemblies  of  the  Church  is  that 
those  who  have  been  chosen  to  preside  over  it,  and  its  members  may 
be  brought  together  from  time  to  time  where  report  of  the  progress 
and  development  of  the  work  of  the  Lord  may  be  made,  when  instruc- 
tion may  be  given,  when  we  may  be  admonished,  where  admonition  is 
necessary,  and  encouraged  where  we  need  encouragement. 

FEATURES  WHICH  DIFFERENTIATE  OUR  CHURCH  FROM  OTHER  CHURCHES 

There  are  so  many  distinctive  features  which  differentiate  the 
Church  from  other  religious  denominations  that  it  is  impossible,  in  a 
short  period  of  time,  to  refer  to  even  a  comparatively  small  number 
of  them.  This  is  one  of  those  distinctive  features,  this  great  gathering 
of  the  Church,  which  occurs  twice  during  the  year.  Another  dis- 
tinctive feature  is  that  these  people  who  are  assembled  here,  who  make 
up  the  membership  of  the  Church,  are  its  controlling  influence  and 
power  under  God.  Those  who  preside  are  placed  here  by  the  voice 
of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  sustained  by  the  voice  of  the  people. 
The  people  uphold  them  with  their  faith  and  prayers  and  they  depend 
upon  the  Lord  for  inspiration  and  wisdom  to  properly  direct  the 
affairs  of  the  Church  for  the  benefit  of  all  its  members.  It  is  not  a 
Church  in  which  the  individual  members  depend  entirely  upon  the 
instruction  and  testimony  which  come  to  them  from  their  presiding 
officers.  The  testimony  of  the  truth  which  brings  them  together 
is  their  individual  gift  and  right,  and  they  are  here  and  adhere  to 
the  faith  because  the  Lord  has  manifested  his  truth  to  them  by  the 
power  and  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  they  are  not  dependent  upon 
others  for  this  knowledge. 

AN  ALLEGED  RETROGRADE  MOVEMENT  IN  THE  CHURCH 

Only  a  short  time  ago,  just  a  few  months,  during  the  present 
year,  a  gathering  of  representatives  of  other  religious  denominations, 
from  all  parts  of  this  intermountain  country,  assembled  at  Salt  Lake 
City.  They  discussed  the  interests  of  their  various  organizations,  and 
among  other  things,  as  usual,  discussed  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Latter-day  Saints,  which  they  continue  to  refer  to  as  a  non-Christian 
organization,  and  they  took  great  comfort,  apparently,  in  the  reports 
which  were  made  from  various  representatives  of  those  denominations 
to  the  effect  that  they  had  at  last  succeeded  in  battering  down  the 
walls  of  this  American  Islam,  that  Christianity  was  making  way 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints ;  that  the  activities  of  our  elders  were 
decreasing;  and  the  tithes  of  the  Church  gradually  being  depleted. 
In  other  words,  that  there  was  a  retrograde  movement  in  the  Church 
which  appeared  to  encourage  them  in  the  hope  that  its  members  might 
eventually  be  converted  to  the  Christian  faith.  I  shall  not  enter  into 
a  discussion  of  this  matter.  The  proceedings  of  this  great  convention 
were  published  and  may  be  read.  I  thought,  as  I  looked  upon  this 
congregation  of  men  and  women,  that  it  is  sufficient  answer  to  these 
people.  We  encourage  and  bless  them  in  their  righteous  efforts,  and 
the  Lord  will  bless  them  for  all  the  good  that  they  accomplish.  But 
they  are  ignorant  of  the  fact  that  these  Latter-day  Saints,  these 
people  whom  they  are  endeavoring  to  convert  to  Christianity,  have 
been  converted,  not  by  argument,  not  by  reason  alone,  but  by  the  gift 
of  the  holy  Spirit  through  which  they  bear  testimony  to  the  divinity 
of  the  mission  and  character  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world  as  no 
other  people. 

THE  CIVIL  GOVERNMENT  AND  THE  DOMINANT  CHURCH  IN  MEXICO 

Reviewing  the  occurrences  of  the  past  six  months,  and  to  a  care- 
ful observer  they  have  been  pregnant  with  events  indicating  the  rapid 
approach  of  the  consummation  of  the  work  of  the  Lord,  I  have  been 
impressed  with  two  occurrences  more  particularly  than  others  during 
that  period  of  time.  The  present  attitude  of  the  civil  government  in 
the  Republic  of  Mexico  toward  the  dominant  church  in  that  Republic 
is  of  greater  importance  to  the  world  than  we  generally  understand. 
It  is  not  a  question  which  involves  Mexico  alone,  but  is  one  which 
involves  all  of  the  churches  of  the  world,  and  the  results  which  shall 
be  achieved  there,  whether  the  civil  government  of  Mexico  shall 
prevail  in  its  present  attitude,  or  whether  the  church  which  is  opposed 
to  it  shall  prevail,  will  have  a  great  influence  upon  the  relationship  of 
the  church  and  state  everywhere. 

RELATIONSHIP  BETWEEN  CHURCH  AND  STATE  MUST  BE  DETERMINED 

It  appears  to  me  to  indicate  that  a  time  has  come  when  the  proper 
relationship  which  should  exist  between  Church  and  State,  between 
civil  and  ecclesiastical  law,  between  those  who  administer  civil  govern- 
ment and  those  who  stand  as  Jrepresentatives  of  the  church  or  the 
various  religious  denominations  of  the  world,  must  be  determined. 

That  there  is  a  proper  relationship  is  clearly  defined  in  the  word 
of  the  Lord,  and  in  the  teachings  of  the  Redeemer  himself.  Give  to 
Caesar  that  which  belongs  to  him ;  render  obedience  to  the  civil  law. 
Give  to  God  that  which  belongs  to  him,  and  render  allegiance  and 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


15 


service  to  him.  This  can  be  done  very  readily  if  people  can  only  be 
brought  to  understand  the  proper  relationship  of  these  two  great 
administrative  powers.  One  of  the  accusations  made  against  Christ 
our  Lord  was  that  he  had  declared  himself  to  be  a  king.  Yes,  he 
said  before  Pilate,  I  am  a  king,  but  my  kingdom  is  not  of  this  world. 
I  am  not  here  in  antagonism  to  the  kingdom  of  Herod,  or  to  the 
empire  of  Rome.  My  kingdom  pertains  to  the  life  to  come.  I  am 
here  to  teach  people  the  way  which  will  lead  them  back  to  God,  where 
they  will  attain  to  everlasting  life,  and  where  they  may  be  crowned 
as  kings  and  priests  of  the  Most  High. 

L.  D.  S.  MORE  THAN  OTHERS  DIRECTLY  INTERESTED  IN  THE  QUESTION 

I  shall  not  enter  into  any  lengthy  discussion  of  this  question. 
I  only  desire  to  call  your  attention  to  it.  Latter-day  Saints  are  per- 
haps more  directly  interested  in  it  than  any  other  people  in  the  world, 
from  the  fact  that  the  Republic  of  Mexico  is  made  up  in  the  great 
majority  of  its  citizens  of  people  whom  the  world  calls  Indians,  but 
to  whom  the  Latter-day  Saints  refer  as  Lamanites,  people  whom  we 
believe  to  be  of  the  chosen  and  promised  seed  of  Abraham,  brought 
to  this  continent  and  established  here  under  the  direction  of  God  our 
Father,  under  the  leadership  of  their  inspired  prophets. 

THE  LAMANITES  OR  INDIANS  OF  MEXICO 

They  developed  a  great  civilization,  but  finally  through  unbelief, 
infidelity,  and  indifference  to  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  the  teachings 
of  the  Christ  who  ministered  among  them,  fell  into  darkness,  became 
divided  into  tribes,  were  decimated  by  civil  war  until  they  finally 
so  far  lost  the  spirit  of  the  gospel  of  Christ  that  they  became  idolaters 
and  offered  human  sacrifices,  practices  that  were  entirely  foreign 
to  the  teachings  of  their  fathers.  It  was  in  this  condition  that  the 
conquerors  of  Mexico  found  them.  Their  prophets  had  warned  them 
that  this  would  come  to  pass.  They  had  exhorted  them  to  turn  from 
idolatry,  had  declared  to  them  that  they  should  be  trodden  down  of 
the  Gentiles,  who  would  come  to  this  promised  land,  but  just  as 
definitely  and  surely  as  their  subjugation  by  foreigners  had  been  de- 
clared, so  did  the  Lord  promise  to  their  fathers  that  they  should  be 
redeemed;  that  a  remnant  of  tfiem  should  survive  and  be  brought 
back  to  a  knowledge  of.  the  truths  of  the  gospel  of  Christ  and  of 
their  real  origin.  And  so  we  look  forward  to  the  evolution  of  con- 
ditions in  that  country  that  will  bring  about  the  fulfilment  of  this 
latter  promise.  No  people  of  modern  times  have  been  so  down-trodden, 
so  persecuted,  so  afflicted,  so  burdened  with  unreasonable  burdens  as 
have  the  people  of  Mexico  during  the  past  four  hundred  year's 
Nothing  in  the  way  of  suffering  could  be  inflicted  upon  humanity 
that  has  not  been  inflicted  upon  them.  Mercilessly  treated  by  their 
conquerors,  reduced  to  slavery,  they  have  suffered  throughout  all  these 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


generations.  The  Lord  in  his  mercy,  and  undoubtedly  by  means  so 
natural  and  common  that  many  will  not  see  his  hand  in  it,  will  redeem 
them  from  that  condition. 

RETRIBUTION  HAS  COME  TO  THEIR  PERSECUTORS 

And  retribution  has  come  to  their  persecutors.  It  is  a  remarkable 
fact  that  of  these  men  who  brought  that  nation  into  subjugation,  there 
was  not  one,  so  far  as  I  am  aware,  who  did  not  pay  the  penalty  for 
the  suffering  he  inflicted  upon  them  during  his  mortal  life.  Columbus, 
the  discoverer  of  this  country,  the  man  who  was  entitled  to  honor  and 
glory  far  greater  than  he  ever  received,  consented  to  the  'traffic  in 
these  peoples  as  slaves  and  sent  them  by  shiploads  to  the  old  world. 
You  all  know  how  he  died  at  Vallad'olid,  in  Spain,  how  he  was  cast 
into  prison,  how  he  was  stripped  of  the  honors  which  belonged  to  him, 
and  died  in  that  condition. 

Hernan  Cortez,  the  conqueror  of  Mexico,  suffered  the  same  fate. 
Francisco  Pizarro  and  his  friend  Almagro,  the  conquerors  of  the  Peru- 
vian empire,  likewise  suffered.  Pizarro  killed  Atahaulpa,  and  later 
killed  Almagro,  his  bosom  friend.  The  younger  Almagro  killed  Pizarro, 
and  he  in  turn  was  killed  by  the  governor  of  the  country.  Thus  one 
by  one  retribution  came  to  them.  I  believe  this  law  to  be  as  inevitable 
as  fate  itself ;  that  we  reap  that  which  we  sow. 

SHALL  CHURCH  OR  GOVERNMENT  RULE,  OR  EACH    IN   ITS  SPHERE? 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  feel  interested  in  this  movement, 
this  conflict  which  is  now  on  in  that  country  and  which  shall  determine 
whether  or  not  the  civil  government  or  the  church  shall  rule,  or 
whether  the  church  and  the  civil  government  will  join  hands  and  in 
harmonious  obedience  to  both  civil  and  ecclesiastical  law  go  on  to  the 
development  of  this  continent  as  God  our  Father  would  have  it  develop. 

THE   BRITISH-ISRAEL  MOVEMENT 

Another  thing  in  which  I  thought  you  would  be  interested  is  a 
great  movement  which  is  just  on  in  Great  Britain,  which  has  been  of 
exceeding  interest  to  me.  An  association  is  in  existence  there  which  is 
sponsored  by  many  of  the  great  scholars  and  statesmen  of  Great  Britain, 
called  the  British-Israel  movement.  The  British  people  are  under- 
taking to  determine  who  their  ancestors  were.  They  have  become 
obsessed  with  the  thought  that  they  are  of  Israel,  and  are  investigating 
and  studying,  going  back  into  the  old  traditions  and  folk-lore  of  Wales, 
of  Ireland,  of  England  and  Scotland,  in  an  endeavor  to  determine  the 
origin  and  destiny  of  the  British  race.  And  this  in  brief  is  what  they 
are  finding  out:  In  the  first  place  that  the  word  "British"  itself  is 
very  significant.  Tasked  a  Jewish  Rabbi  the  other  day  the  derivation 
of  the  word  "British."  He  said  in  Hebrew  it  was  composed  of  two 
words,  "Brit"— a  covenant,  and  "ishV— a  man.    A  covenant  man,  or  a 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IV INS 


17 


man  of  the  covenant,  the  covenant  which  God  our  Father  made  with 
Abraham,  the  covenant  in  which  he  promised  him  that  his  seed  should 
become  as  numerous  as  the  stars  of  heaven — a  covenant  in  which  he 
promised  him  that  kings  should  come  out  of  him,  and  that  through  him 
all  of  the  nations  of  the  earth  should  be  blessed. 

DEVELOPMENTS  IN  THE  INVESTIGATION 

I  cannot  take  the  time  to  go  into  detail,  but  it  is  sufficient  for  me 
to  say  that  these  investigations  show  very  conclusive,  if  not  definite, 
evidence  that  at  an  early  date  in  the  history  of  the  world,  not  long 
after  the  ten  tribes  were  led  away  captive  into  Assyria  by  Shalmaneser, 
the  tribe  of  Dan  appeared  in  Ireland  and  went  over  into  the  Scandi- 
navian countries,  and  there  again  you  will  find  this  singular  coincidence, 
(Dan  is  one  of  the  tribes  of  Israel)  that  Denmark  means  Dan's  Land, 
or  the  Land  of  Dan. 

I  noted  down  here,  that  I  might  not  be  too  long,  just  a  few  of  the 
developments  in  this  investigation.  It  was  after  the  scattering  of  the 
ten  tribes  that  Troy  was  established,  and  it  is  made  almost  definitely 
certain  that  the  Trojans,  and  the  nations  who  lived  in  the  time  which 
we  call  the  age  of  fable,  where  the  remnants  of  those  scattered  tribes  of 
Israel  which  left  the  head  of  the  Euphrates  river  and  traveled  north  over 
the  mountains  into  Northern  Europe.  They  say  that  the  early  appear- 
ance of  the  tribe  of  Dan  is  very  clearly  proven.  Later  came  another 
division  of  this  same  people  to  Scotland,  where  they  were  established. 
There  appeared  in  Ireland,  six  hundred  years  before  Christ  a  great 
Israelitish  lawgiver,  who  enforced  the  observance  of  the  Ten  Command- 
ments and  established  a  school  of  the  prophets,  who  was  called  Ollam 
Fodhla,  two  Hebrew  words  said  to  mean  "wonderful  prophet."  A 
medallion  now  in  existence  in  Great  Britain  is  said  to  identify  this 
man  with  the  Prophet  Jeremiah. 

An  old  manuscript  which  has  been  dug  up  in  the  British  Museum 
identifies  a  great  character  who  came  there  about  the  same  time  as 
Joseph  of  Arimathea,  who  came  with  his  daughter  Anna  to  that 
country.  This  man,  the  evidence  indicates,  was  a  younger  brother 
of  the  father  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  thus  Anna  became  the  cousin  of 
the  Virgin.  The  royal  family  of  Great  Britain  trace  their  genealogy 
back  direct  to  this  woman  Anna.  There  can  be  no  doubt  in  regard  to 
this.  The  only  question  in  doubt  is  the  identity  of  Anna  and  some  of 
the  scholars  in  Great  Britain  agree  that  she  appears  to  have  been  a 
cousin  of  the  Virgin  Mary. 

SYMBOLISM  OF  THE  BRITISH   COAT  OF  ARMS 

The  British  coat  of  arms  I  desire  to  refer  to  just  for  a  moment. 
T  think  that  none  of  us  has  very  seriously  undertaken  to  define  its 
symbolism  and  meaning :  The  lion  of  the  house  of  David  is  shown  on 
it ;  the  unicorn,  to  which  the  Lord  likened  Joseph  when  he  said  that 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


his  horn  should  be  like  the  horn  of  the  unicorn,  which  should  push  the 
people  together  from  all  parts  of  the  earth ;  the  harp,  which  was  the 
banner  of  David.  There  are  ten  symbols  on  the  British  coat  of  arms, 
which  appear  to  represent  the  ten  tribes  of  Israel.  And  these  were 
not  put  there  because  of  the  knowledge  which  modern  Britain  had 
of  their  significance  at  the  time  of  their  adoption.  It  was  the  heraldry 
which  had  been  handed  down  to  them  from  generations  long  past. 

WHAT  THE  SAINTS  HAVE  TRIED  FOR  YEARS  TO  TEACH  THE  BRITISH 

The  thing  which  interested  me  most  was  that  these  British  people 
are  just  beginning  to  find  out  what  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  been 
trying  to  teach  to  them  for  nearly  a  hundred  years.  This  great  con- 
gregation of  people  which  is  assembled  here  this  morning — if  you 
should  go  to  the  Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church,  whose  right  it  is 
because  of  his  calling  to  designate  your  genealogy — he  would  almost 
without  exception  declare  you  to  be  the  seed  of  Joseph,  and  in  the  great 
majority  of  cases  through  the  lineage  of  Ephraim,  for  this  is  the  land 
which  was  given  to  Ephraim — these  everlasting  hills.  His  blessing 
was  greater  than  that  bestowed  upon  his  ancestors.  Jacob  said  that  it 
extended  to  the  utmost  bounds  of  the  everlasting  hills.  And  so  tlTis 
pushing  together  is  occurring,  and  here  Ephraim  is  gathering  in  ful- 
filment of  the  unchangeable  words  of  the  prophets  of  the  Lord. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  there  is  much  more — oh,  a  world 
of  interesting  evidence  that  is  being  unearthed,  not  by  enthusiasts,  not 
by  foolish  people,  but  by  scholars,  by  Egyptologists,  by  men  who 
understand — until  the  thought  is  becoming  almost  universal  in  the 
British  Isles,  that  Israel  is  there,  where  we  have  always  known  them 
to  be. 

A  STUDY  OF  THE  PYRAMID  OF  GIZEH 

Another  interesting  development  is  a  more  careful  study  of  the 
great  pyramid  of  Gizeh  in  Egypt.  What  is  it?  Why  was  it  put  there? 
It  is  one  of  the  most  wonderful  things  that  exist  in  the  world,  a  miracle 
in  stone.  We  cannot  call  it  anything  else.  It  stands  in  the  spot  where 
the  Prophet  Isaiah  said  the  Lord  should  establish  an  altar  which  would 
stand  as  a  sign  and  a  witness  to  the  Lord  in  the  land  of  Egypt  in  the 
latter  days.  It  is  said  to  be  the  only  perfectly  oriented  structure  iri 
the  world,  and  yet  it  was  put  there  at  a  time  when  the  civilization  of 
the  world  was  not  supposed  to  have  developed  as  it  is  developed  at  the 
present  time.  It  is  the  largest  structure  in  the  world.  It  is  said  to 
record  the  history  of  the  Adamic  race  during  the  six  thousand  years 
of  its  existence.  It  was  called  by  the  ancient  Egyptians,  Khuti,  which 
in  Hebrew  means  the  Urim,  or  Urim  and  Thummim.  Its  exterior 
was  polished  so  that  it  reflected  light  as  nothing  of  similar  kind  had 
ever  done  before.  It  is  not  the  tomb  of  a  king.  Its  measurements  are 
said  to  be  the  most  accurate  that  the  world  knows  at  the  present  time. 
Its  proportions  are  in  exact  measurement  and  harmonize  with  the 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


19 


surface  of  the  earth.    It  represents  the  relationship  of  the  earth  to  the 
heavenly  bodies. 

I  opened  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  a  few  months  ago  and  read 
the  story  of  Abraham  in  Egypt,  where  the  book  tells  us  that  he  was 
sitting  upon  Pharaoh's  throne,  discussing  with  those  people  astronomy 
and  the  mysteries  of  godliness  with  which  they  were  not  familiar. 
According  to  eminent  scholars  of  Great  Britain  the  pyramid  is  so 
accurately  arranged  in  its  measurements  and  symbols  that  it  has  out- 
lined many  great  and  important  events  which  have  occurred  since  its 
erection,  which  apply  to  the  Israelitish  people.  It  indicates  a  date  on 
the  6th  or  7th  of  April — there  is  a  little  difference  of  opinion  but 
some  great  event  was  to  occur  on  the  6th  or  7th  day  of  April,  which 
is  interpreted  to  be  the  date  of  the  crucifixion  of  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world.  Its  measurements  indicate  the  beginning  of  the  great  war  in 
1914,  and  its  termination  in  1918.  More  than  ninety  per  cent  of  the 
events  chronicled,  according  to  measurements,  have  already  been  ful- 
filled. The  scholars  of  Great  Britain  tell  us  that  between  the  present 
date  and  1936  or  193&',  the  record  so  far  as  it  applies  to  this  monument 
in  stone  will  have  been  completed.  There  is  nothing  which  appears 
after  that  date.  And  so  they  look  for  the  accomplishment  of  great 
events  during  this  period. 

I  do  not  give  this  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  correct  in 
every  detail,  but  it  is  the  conclusion  of  some  of  the  best  informed  men  of 
the  British  Empire,  and  is  not  out  of  harmony  with  the  word  of 
the  Lord  as  he  has  revealed  it  to  us.  It  is  not  out  of  harmony,  if  you 
have  been  a  close  observer  during  the  past  six  months,  with  the  things 
which  have  occurred  in  the  world  at  large.  It  is  not  out  of  harmony 
with  the  words  of  the  Redeemer  himself  who  warned  the  world  that  in 
this  dispensation,  and  not  far  from  this  time,  for  it  is  nearly  a  hundred 
years  since  the  organization  of  the  Church,  that  he  will  consummate 
his  work  so  far  as  it  applies  to  the  Gentile  nations  of  the  world. 

PREDICTIONS  FROM  THE  DOCTRINE  AND  COVENANTS 

I  am  going  to  take  the  liberty  to  read  a  few  words  from  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  that  my  study  of  these  things  has  brought 
to  my  mind.  There  are  here  the  Presidents  of  the  missions  of  the 
Church.  There  are  in  this  congregation  thousands  of  men  and  women 
who  have  gone  out  as  missionaries  from  the  Church  declaring  these 
truths  to  the  people,  as  President  Grant  has  stated : 

"And  after  your  testimony  cometh  wrath  and  indignation  upon  the  people. 

"For  after  your  testimony  cometh  the  testimony  of  earthquakes,  that  shall 
cause  groanings  in  the  midst  of  her,  and  men  shall  fall  upon  the  ground  and 
shall  not  be  able  to  stand. 

"And  also  cometh  the  testimony  of  the  voice  of  thunderings,  and  the  voice 
of  lightnings,  and  the  voice  of  tempests,  and  the  voice  of  the  waves  of  the  sea 
heaving  themselves  beyond  their  bounds. 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"And  all  things  shall  be  in  commotion;  and  surely  men's  hearts  shall  fail 
them;  for  fear  shall  come  upon  all  people." 

BE  PREPARED  FOR  COMING  GREAT  EVENTS 

Do  you  see  anything,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  current  events 
which  indicate  the  approach  of  a  period  of  this  kind?  Be  prepared 
then  for  it.  In  what  way?  Just  by  serving  the  Lord.  Just  b} 
continuing-  in  devoted  work  in  the  gospel  of  his  kingdom.  Just  by 
observing  the  laws  of  the  land  and,  the  laws  of  the  Lord  as  they  are 
exemplified  in  the  discipline  of  the  Church.  There  ought  not  to  be 
a  violator  of  the  civil  law  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  There  should  not  be  a  boot-legger,  should  not  be  a  blasphemer ; 
there  should  not  be  a  man  or  woman  bearing  false  witness  against  his 
or  her  neighbor.  There  should  not  be  a  man  or  woman  whose  heart 
and  spirit  is  not  in  harmony  with  the  doctrines  taught  by  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world.  And  if  this  condition  can  be  attained  and  shall  con- 
tinue in  the  Church;  if  we  shall  be  as  we  declare  we  are,  subject  to 
kings  and  to  potentates,  to  presidents  and  to  governors,  wherever  our 
lot  is  cast,  and  at  the  same  time  go.  on  in  our  devoted  service  to  the 
Lord  our  God,  keeping  his  commandments,  having  faith  in  the  words 
of  his  servants,  the  prophets,  looking  steadfastly  forward  to  the  ac- 
complishment of  his  purposes,  I  promise  you  that  when  this  time  of 
awful  trouble  comes  which  the  British  seers  say  is  at  our  very  doors, 
and  it  will  come,  his  protecting  hand  will  be  over  us,  and  he  who  is 
powerful,  he  who  can  deliver,  he  who  can  protect,  will  give  us  pro- 
tection and  deliverance. 

DIFFERENCE   BETWEEN    PRIESTCRAFT    AND  PRIESTHOOD 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  keep  us  all  from  the 
sins  of  the  world,  keep  us  clean  and  unspotted,  make  us  more  devoted 
if  possible  to  his  word  and  more  loyal  and  patriotic  to  the  government 
of  which  we  form  a  part.  For  without  this  government  the  Church  of 
Christ  could  not  exist,  unless  God  should  manifest  his  power  in  an 
unusual  manner  in  our  behalf.  He  has  raised  up  this  government  and 
the  men  who  direct  its  affairs  for  our  protection  and  benefit,  for  the 
protection  and  benefit  of  the  people  of  the  world  in  righteousness. 
But  whenever  people  depart  from  the  way  of  righteousness,  whenever 
priestcraft  shall  take  the  place  of  Priesthood,  God's  mercy  will  be 
withdrawn.  (Distinguish  between  the  words — priestcraft  is  that  system 
by  which  men  pretend  to  speak  and  act  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
without  authority  and  without  power ;  Priesthood  is  the  keys  and 
authority  to  properly  act  and  speak  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  and 
the  power  of  the  Priesthood  will  be  manifest  in  the  Works  of 
those  who  exercise  it.  And  that  characterizes  the  lives  of  these 
men.  these  apostles  who  are  before  you,  these  presiding  seventies, 
and  presidents  of  missions.  They  exercise  the  Priesthood  of  the  Lord 
our  God  through  proper  authority,  and  they  exercise  it  in  a  proper  way.) 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IV INS 


21 


When  priestcraft  shall  assume  that  which  does  not  belong  to  it,  then 
God's  mercy  and  protection  will  be  withdrawn.  Go  on  and  read  the 
remainder  of  this  eighty-eighth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
(I  do  not  like  to  read  it  here)  because  it  tells  us  what  is  going  to 
happen  to  priestcraft,  and  it  is  coming  with  those  other  manifestations 
of  the  power  of  the  Lord  which  are  so  prevalent. 

May  the  blessing  of  the  Lord  be  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 
We  pray  for  you,  we  work  for  you,  we  love  you.  Our  only  desire  is 
to  be  of  service  to  you,  forgetting  ourselves.  And  I  want  to  bear 
witness  that  never  in  the  history  of  the  Church  have  men  more  un- 
selfishly directed  its  affairs  than  at  the  present  time.  I  know  this 
from  my  association  with  these  men,  with  the  Presidency,  with  the 
members  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  They  are  here  to  sacrifice  every- 
thing for  the  welfare  of  the  members  of  the  Church  of  Christ.  God 
help  us  all  to  follow  -that  example,  I  pray  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "Inflammatus,"  Laurinda  Brewerton,  soloist. 
The  benediction  was  offered  by  Elder  Geo.  W.  Middleton  of  the 
Ensign  stake. 

The  conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

The  meeting  opened  at  2  p.  m.,  Sunday,  October  3,  1926;  President 
Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Praise  to  the  man 
who  communed  with  Jehovah." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  John  M.  Baxter,  president  of  the 
Woodruff  stake. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn,  "Go,  ye  messengers  of  glory." 

PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  It  has  always  been  a  considerable  task 
for  me,  at  the  general  conferences,  to  address  these  large  gatherings  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  although  I  have  had  many  years'  experience.  Ap- 
proaching a  task  of  this  kind  gives  one  a  feeling  of  awe. 

A  GREAT  WORK  ^ACCOMPLISHED  BY  THE  SAINTS 

I  rejoice  in  the  work  that  the  Lord  has  accomplished  with  the  help 
of  his  Saints,  imperfect  as  most  of  us  are.  Under  his  guidance  and 
direction  we  have  been  able  to  accomplish  a  igreat  work.  I  believe 
that  he  would  say  now,  as  he  said  to  the  Church  in  former  days,  that 
he  is  well  pleased  with  his  Church  collectively — not  individually,  but 
collectively. 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


GRATITUDE  TO  GOD  FOR  THIS  AGE  AND  NATION 

I  feel  very  grateful  for  the  privilege  of  being  here.  I  often  think 
what  a  grand  thing  it  is  to  be  permitted  to  live  in  the  world  today — this 
wonderful  age  of  the  world,  with  its  marvelous  developments  of  science 
and  art,  and  the  great  progress  that  has  been  made  from  the  conditions 
of  the  world  as  they  existed  two  or  three  hundred,  or  even  a  hundred 
years  ago.  What  a  different  world !  And  what  a  wonderful  land  of 
liberty  we  are  living  in — a  choice  land;  under  the  freest  and  best  of  all 
governments  on  the  face  of  the  earth;  where  there  is  more  security, 
more  protection  for  the  rights  and  liberties  of  the  people,  than  there  is 
in  any  other  nation.  The  hand  of  the  Lord  has  guided  the  destinies  of 
this  great  nation,  for  he  it  was  that  planned  it. 

He  tells  us  in  a  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  which  we 
often  quote :  "I,  the  Lord,  raised  up  wise  men  for  this  very  purpose" ; 
that  is,  to  found  this  government;  and  it  has  had  divine  guidance  all 
the  way  through.  The  people  here  in  the  United  States,  even  those  who 
are  not  so  well  off  financially,  are  housed  better,  fed  and  clothed  better, 
and  better  situated  than  the  rich  and  well-to-do  in  most  other  nations. 
Never  before  in  all  the  history  of  the  world  has  there  been  a  nation 
like  this,  of  such  commanding  importance,  and  yet  not  desiring  any- 
thing but  what  rightfully  belongs  to  it.  I 

REVERENCE  FOR  GOD 

I  was  glad  to  read  the  inaugural  address  of  President  Coolidge, 
delivered  a  year  ago  last  March,  particularly  the  closing  paragraph 
wherein  'he  showed  such  reverence  for  God.  He  concluded  the  address 
with  these  words : 

"America  seeks  no  earthly  empire  built  on  blood  and  force.  No  ambition, 
no  temptation,  lures  her  to  thought  of  foreign  dominions.  The  legions  which 
she  sends  forth  are  armed,  not  with  the  sword,  but  with  the  cross. 

"The  higher  state  to  which  she  seeks  the  allegiance  of  all  mankind  is  not 
of  human,  but  of  divine  origin.  She  cherishes  no  purpose  save  to  merit  the 
favor  of  Almighty  God." 

"She  cherishes  no  purpose  save  to  merit  the  favor  of  Almighty 
God".  These  words  constitute  an  acknowledgment  of  God  in  the  af- 
fairs of  the  nation,  and  a  desire  to  be  governed  by  the  spirit  of  right- 
eousness and  justice,  to  do  good  and  to  uphold  the  principles  of  freedom. 

THE  STRUGGLE  FOR  LIBERTY 

The  liberty  that  we  enjoy  today  has  come  only  after  a  hard  struggle 
in  the  world.  Four  hundred  years  ago  the  fight  for  freedom  was  on. 
The  reformers,  as  they  are  called— Martin  Luther,  John  Knox  and 
others— rose  up  and  protested  against  the  tyranny  to  which  they  were 
subjected.  They  demanded  more  liberty.  They  were  few  in  number 
compared  to  the  many  millions,  but  under  the  blessing  of  the  Lord 
they  conquered.  (Finally,  little  by  little,  liberty  was  conceded  to  the 
people  by  the  potentates  and  popes  that  then  ruled  the  world.    But  it 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIB  LEY 


23 


was  a  hard  struggle  and  cost  some  of  the  best  blood  of  that  period.  The 
Rise  of  the  Dutch  Republic,  by  Motley,  gives  a  graphic  description  of  the 
terrible  sufferings  endured  by  the  Dutch  people  in  this  long  fight  for 
liberty.  For  the  liberties  that  we  enjoy  today  we  are  indebted  in  large 
measure  to  the  people  of  the  Netherlands.  For  many  years  they  fought 
most  valiantly  for  religious  freedom  and  the  extension  of  the  rights 
and  liberties  of  the  citizen  against  all  the  might  and  power  of 
Catholic  Spain,  backed  by  the  Spanish  Inquisition.  They  were  small 
in  number  and  weak  indeed  compared  to  the  thousands  and  tens  of 
thousands  of  Spanish  troops,  led  by  the  notorious  Duke  of  Alva.  But 
they  finally  conquered.  Why  ?  Because  the  guidance  of  the  Lord  was 
with  them,  and  he  gave  them  his  favor  and  blessing. 

A  hundred  years  later  the  same  desire  for  liberty  was  again  man- 
ifested. Oliver  Cromwell  was  raised  up,  and  he  fought  a  good  fight 
and  kept  the  faith.  We  are  also  largely  indebted  to  him,  and  to  those 
who  fought  with  him,  for  the  freedom  that  exists  in  America  today. 

A  hundred  years  after  that  we  find  George  Washington  and  the 
patriot  fathers  contending  for  the  liberties  of  the  people,  and  the  Lord 
gave  divine  guidance  to  them.  They  could  not  have  succeeded  without 
his  help.    His  power  and  his  hand  were  over  them. 

So,  as  we  heard  from  President  Ivins  this  morning,  it  comes  about 
in  the  progress  of  the  spirit  of  freedom  and  liberty,  that  the  Lord  has 
prepared  the  way  in  this  nation  for  his  Church  to  be  established. 

(DISTINCTION  BETWEEN  DIVINE  GUIDANCE  AND  DIVINE  AUTHORITY 

But  here  let  me  emphasize  one  thought.  To  all  of  these  men — 
Luther,  Knox,  Cromwell,  Washington,  and  their  compeers — there  was 
given  divine  guidance.  But  they  did  not  have  divine  authority.  The 
Lord  today  gives  divine  guidance  to  good  people  of  the  world  who  seek 
him — and  many  millions  do.  It  is  true  that  there  is  a  divinity  that  shapes 
our  ends  (and  the  ends  of  nations,  too)  rough-hew  them  as  we  will.  But 
he  has  not  given  to  the'm  divine  authority.  As  we  heard  this  morn- 
ing, religious  denominations  sometimes  meet  together  and  pass  resolu- 
tions against  us.  They  are  without  divine  authority.  And  there  is  a 
marked  distinction  between  divine  guidance  and  divine  authority.  People 
can  see  and  acknowledge  the  guiding  hand  of  Almighty  God  in  the 
formation  of  this  government  and  in  its  growth  and  development.  It  is 
plain  to  many  that  we  have  enjoyed  his  favor  as  a  nation.  But  as  to 
divine  authority,  that  is  different.  Let  me  read  from  the  very  first 
revelation  in  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

"And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  people,  [We  heard  from  Presi- 
dent Grant  this  forenoon  of  the  necessity  of  preaching  this  gospel  to  all  the 
nations  of  the  earth]  by  the  mouths  of  my  disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in 
these  last  days. 

"And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none  shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have 
commanded  them. 

"Behold,  this  is  mine  authority,  and  the  authority  of  my  servants." 

That  is  a  little  different  from  divine  guidance. 


24 


CliNER.  IE  CONFERENCE 


In  a  revelation  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  when  he  was 
only  seventeen  years  of  age,  in  1823,  we  read: 

"Behold,  I  will  reveal  unto  you  tlie  Priesthood,  by  the  hand  of  Elijah  the 
proph<  t,  before  the  coming  of  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord. 

•  And  he  shall  plant  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  the  promises  made  to  the 
fathers,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children  shall  turn  to  their  fathers. 

"If  it  urn  not  so,  the  whole  earth  would  be  utterly  wasted  at  his  coming." 

DIVINE  AUTHORITY  CONFERRED  BY  HOLY  MESSENGERS 

Was  that  divine  authority  bestowed?  Let  me  read  another  section. 
On  the  15th  day. of  May,  1829,  an  angel  of  the  Lord,  known  as  John 
the  Baptist  when  he  lived  upon  the  earth  in  the  days  of  the  Savior, 
appeared  to  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  and  conferred  upon 
them,  in  these  words,  the  (Priesthood  of  Aaron : 

"Upon  you  my  fellow  servants,  in  the  name  of  Messiah,  I  confer  the  Priest- 
hood of  Aaron,  which  hold,s  the  keys  of  the  ministering  of  angels,  and  of  the 
gospel  of  repentance,  and  of  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins; 
and  this  shall  never  be  taken  again  from  the  earth,  until  the  sons  of  Levi  do 
offer  again  an  offering  unto  the  Lord  in  righteousness." 

Here  is  divine  authority.  Do  any  of  our  friends  or  neighbors  make 
such  a  claim?  We  know  the  claim  of  the  (Catholic  church,  and  all  we 
say  in  response  is  that  "By  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them."  These 
were  the  words  of  our  Savior,  and  that  is  enough  on  that  score.  But 
our  Protestant  friends  do  not  even  have  that  much  of  a  claim.  They 
have  a  form  of  godliness,  but  deny  the  power  thereof.  And  because 
they  do  not  have  the  authority  themselves  they  think  no  one  else  has. 

I  have  read  to  you.  how  the  Lord  conferred  the  lesser  Priesthood 
upon  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery.  Let  me  read 
from  the  27th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  The  Prophet 
Joseph,  in  preparing  for  a  sacramental  meeting  in  August,  1830,  started 
to  go  to  a  neighbor's  house  to  secure  wine  for  the  sacrament,  because 
that  is  what  had  been  used.  He  was  met  by  a  messenger  from  the 
Lord  and  instructed  that  he  need  not  go  for  wine ;  that  pure  water 
should  be  used  instead : 

"It  mattereth  not  what  ye  shall  eat  or  what  ye  shall  drink  when  ye  partakt 
of  the  sacrament,  if  it  so  be  that  ye  do  it  with  an  eye  single  to  my  glory — 
remembering  unto  the  Father  my  body  which  was  laid  down  for  you,  and  my 
blcod  which  was  shed,  for  the  remission  of  your  sins." 

Then  this  messenger  goes  on  to  tell  the  prophet  that  the  day  will 
come  when  he,  Joseph  Smith,  would  be  able  to  sit  down  with  Abraham, 
Isaac  and  Jacob,  with  Moses,  with  Elias,  with  others  of  the  ancient 
worthies  and  partake  of  the  sacrament  "and  also  with  all  those  whom 
my  Father  hath  given  me  out  of  the  world."  So,  some  of  us  may  have 
the  privilege  of  being  there.  But  he  said  further,  that  the  iProphet 
would  have  the  privilege  of  sitting  down  "with  Peter,  and  James,  and 
John,  whom  I  'have  sent  unto  you,  by  whom  I  have  ordained  you  and 
confirmed  you  to  be  apostles,  and  especial  witnesses  of  my  name,  and 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIB  LEY 


25 


bear  the  keys  of  your  ministry  and  of  the  same  things  which  I  revealed 
unto  them." 

Here  was  divine  authority  in  these  last  days,  conferred  by  holy 
messengers,  the  same  men,  Peter,  James  and  John,  of  whom  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  said,  in  his  time  :  "Ye  have  not  chosen  me,  but  I  have 
chosen  you  and  ordained  you."  The  Lord  Jesus  himself  ordained  those 
three  men,  and  they  came,  as  I  have  read,  and  conferred  the  holy  apostle- 
ship  upon  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery.  So  here  is  divine  au- 
thority to  act  in  the  name  of  the  Lord.  Our  claim  is  that  the  authority 
of  the  Priesthood  has  been  conferred  upon  men  and  given  to  this 
Church  which  is  the  Church  of  Christ.  It  is  not  given  to  the  nation. 
But  the  nation  has  had  divine  guidance,  as  I  have  said.  Individuals 
not  of  our  Church  may  have  divine  guidance ;  but  divine  authority,  to 
act  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  to  baptize,  to  lay  on  hands,  to  say :  "Re- 
ceive ye  the  Holy  Ghost,"  as  the  apostles  of  old  said,  and  then  to  have 
them  receive  it,  that  is  a  different  proposition. 

WITNESSES  OF  THE  BESTOWAL  OF  DIVINE  AUTHORITY 

Upon  these  statements  of  divine  authority  we  rest  our  case,  as  the 
lawyers  say.  If  these  heavenly  messengers  did  not  come  to  Joseph 
Smith  and  confer  upon  him  this  divine  authority,  then  is  our  preaching 
vain  and  our  faith  is  vain  also.  But  we  know,  and  the  world  may 
know  also  by  the  fruits  of  "Mormonism"  that  there  is  divine  power  in 
this  organization.  Moreover,  we  have  witnesses.  Through  Joseph 
Smith  the  Lord  called  three  special  witnesses,  to  whom  was  given  the 
great  manifestation  of  the  truth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  We  have  not 
only  three  witnesses  to  the  testimony  of  this  divine  auhority,  but  we  have 
three  hundred  thousand  of  them,  and  more,  that  can  rise  up  and  testify 
that  by  the  power  and  influence  of  the  Holy  Ghost  they  know  that  this 
is  the  work  of  God,  that  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  It  is  not 
a  form  of  godliness  without  any  power;  it  is  tJie  power  of  God  unto 
salvation,  the  salvation  of  all  those  who  will  accept  it,  in  this  land 
and  in  every  other  land.  That  is  the  difference  between  this  Church  and 
all  other  .churches  in  the  world.  We  call  upon  all  the  world  to  know 
that  that  divine  authority  is  here,  in  this  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  that  it  is  nowhere  else.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 

STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

God  is  in  heaven,  but  he  is  not-  far  removed  from  them  that  seel« 
him.    He  is  a  friend  who  never  fails.    One  can  always  trust  him. 

THANKS  AND  GRATITUDF 

I  thank  God  for  the  gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ, 
for  the  great  conceptions  of  life  which  it  offers  for  the  comfort  and 
the  encouragement  and  the  hope  of  all  mankind. 

I  thank  him  for  the  Church  with  all  its  great  institutions, -built 
up  and  maintained  under  the  power  of  the  holy  Priesthood  for  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


salvation  of  the  souls  of  men,  and  for  their  direction  in  the  great 
cause  of  truth. 

I  thank  God  for  the  Saints,  the  blessed  Saints,  who  make  up 
the  Church  of  Christ,  who  have  testimonies  of  the  divinity  of  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Lord  and  Master ;  who  know  of  the  great  mission  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  who  seek  to  carry  forward  the  mighty 
work  which  he  was  instrumental  in  establishing.  I  am  grateful 
to  be  identified  with  the  Saints  of  God.  .  i 

I  thank  God  for  the  Priesthood,  for  that  great  power  just 
spoken  of,  a  very  portion  of  Godhood  itself,  which  enables  men 
to  administer  the  ordinances  of  the  Everlasting  Gospel,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  with  his  authority.  I  am  grateful  for 
the  fraternity  and  the  friendship  which  come  from  associations  in 
the  Priesthood. 

I  thank  God  for  my  brethren  of  the  stakes,  where  my  duties 
call  me,  for  my  associations  with  them,  for  their  uniform  kindness 
and  consideration  and  love.  Brethren,  I  love  you,  I  love  you  in 
the  bond  of  the  holy  Priesthood,  and  I  trust  that  that  bond  may 
always  keep  us  together.  ;Thank  God  for  the  handclasp  of  a  man 
who  is  united  with  me  in  the  Priesthood  of  God.  Never  neglect 
those  friendships,  brethren,  be  one  and  you  will  be  Christ's. 

I  am  grateful,  beyond  my  power  of  expression,  for  the  com- 
panionship of  my  beloved  brethren  who  surround  me,  my  col- 
leagues, my  true  friends,  men  whose  examples  stimulate  and  en- 
courage me  and  protect  me  from  temptation  and  error.  I  am  grate- 
ful for  their  confidence  in  me,  and  I  have  continually  prayed  that 
in  some  measure  I  might  be  worthy  of  that  confidence. 

The  Lord  is  good.  All  his  judgments  are  righteous.  He  makes 
no  mistakes.  Never  complain  at  the  judgments  of  God;  never 
mock  him.  Always  trust  him.  He  will  never  forsake  you.  Seek 
the  things  of  eternity;  they  are  worth  while.  All  other  things 
are  of  but  passing  worth  and  comparatively  valueless. 

Oh,  I  thank  God  for  the  home  and  for  the  great  conception 
of  family  which  we  have,  Ifor  the  eternity  of  these  sacred  and 
beautiful  relationships  that  under  the  power  of  the  Priesthood  have 
been  established.  If  there  were  nothing  else  given  to  the  world  by 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  than  our  great  and  beautiful  conception 
of  home  and  family,  he  would  have  made  the  greatest  contribu- 
tion ever  made  to  humanity  by  any  man  who  has  lived. 

I  praise  his  great  name,  the  name  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
I  know  that  his  mission  was  divine.  My  heart,  my  soul,  and  every 
faculty  of  which  I  have  possession,  confirm  that  knowledge.  The 
work  that  he  established  is  the  work  of  the  living  God. 

In  your  presence,  humbly,  I  consecrate  and  dedicate  all  that 
has  been  given  to  me  to  the  establishment  of  that  work.  May  we 
all  make  it  prosper  as  God  would  have  us  do,  I  pray  humbly,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


27 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  wish  that  it  were  given  to  all  of  the  audience  to  stand  here 
and  see  this  magnificent  sight  as  we  are  standing  and  singing  our 
songs.  Of  course,  we  get  a  view  that  those  of  you  in  the  audience 
cannot  have.  This  is  a  wonderful  inspiration — to  view  such  an 
audience,  the  main  body  of  this  house  full  of  men  holding  the  Priest- 
hood of  God,  and  the  power  of  Almighty  God,  to  declare  his  will 
to  the  world. 

REED  SMOOT 

I  could  do  no  better  than  repeat  the  words  that  have  been  spoken 
by  President  Grant.  I  had  it  in  my  heart  to  do  so,  and  I  want  to  say 
amen  to  all  that  he  has  just  said,  also  I  want  to  express  my  appreciation 
for  the  privilege  of  attending  this  general  conference.  While  we  were 
singing  the  last  song,  "Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah," 
and  the  one  before,  I  thought,  if  the  author  of  these  two  songs  were 
allowed  to  be  present  and  hear  the  words  sung  by  this  wonderful  and 
enthusiastic  audience,  such  an  audience  as  cannot  be  found  in  any  other 
place  on  earth,  his  heart  would  be  filled  with  joy  and  praise-giving.  The 
fundamentals  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  are  found  in  the  words  of 
these  two  songs.  Where  else  in  all  the  world  could  you  see  an  audience 
of  ten  thousand  people  every  one  of  them  capable  of  quoting  every) 
word  of  the  song,  and  every  soul  interested  in  singing  the  praises  to- 
God  as  contained  in  these  two  songs? 

NEVER  DESPAIR 

The  other  day  a  middle-aged  man  called  to  see  me.  It  was  about  a 
question  in  which  he  was  deeply  interested,  and  after  I  advised  him 
that  his  wishes,  as  far  as  any  action  on  the  part  of  our  government  was 
concerned,  were  useless,  he  began  to  talk  to  me  about  his  life  and 
what  he  had  been  called  upon  to  sacrifice  for  the  gospel's  sake.  He 
said  that  he  became  almost  discouraged  and  was  almost  at  the  road 
of  despair.  I  thought,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  that  condition, 
if  a  man  reached  it,  is  a  most  dangerous  one,  and  at  that  time  if 
a  word  of  encouragement  or  a  helping  hand  could  be  extended,  it 
may  save  him.  I  remembered  when  I  was  going  to  school  as  a 
young  boy  of  being  asked  to  learn  and  repeat  an  article  found, 
I  think,  in  the  National  Fifth  Reader,  entitled  "Never  Despair,"  and  as 
I  had  it  with  me  I  read  it  to  him.  I  think,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  perhaps  it  would  be  a  proper  thing  to  call  it  to  your 
attention,  and  I  shall  do  so,  in  part : 

"There  is  no  trait  of  human  character  so  potential  for  weal  or  woe  as 
firmness.  To  the  business  man  it  is  all  important.  Before  its  irresistable  energy 
the  most  formidable  obstacles  become  as  cobweb  barriers  in  its  path.  Dif- 
ficulties, the  terror  of  which  causes  the  pampered  sons  of  luxury  to  shrink 
back  with  dismay,  provoke  from  the  man  of  lofty  determination  only  a  smile. 


( ,  ENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  whole  story  of  our  race — all  nature,  indeed — teems  with  examples  to  show 
what  wenders  may  be  accomplished  by  resolute  perseverance  and  patient  toil. 

"It  is  related  of  Tamerlane,  the  celebrated  warrior,  the  terror  of  whose  arms 
spread  through  all  the  eastern  nations,  and  whom  victory  attended  at  almost 
every  step,  that  he  once  learned  from  an  insect  a  lesson  of  perseverance,  which 
had  a  striking  effect  upon  his  future  character  and  success. 

"When  closely  pursued  by  his  enemies — as  contemporary  tells  the  anecdote 
— he  took  refuge  in  some  old  ruins,  where,  left  to  his  solitary  musings,  he  espied 
an  ant  tugging  and  striving  to  carry  a  single  grain  of  corn.  His  unavailing1 
efforts  were  repeated  sixty-nine  times,  and  at  each  several  time  so  soon  as  he 
reached  a  certain  point  of  projection,  he  fell  back  with  his  burden,  unable  to  sur- 
mount it;  but  the  seventieth  time  he  bore  away  his  spoil  in  triumph,  and  1'efiJ 
the  wondering  hero  reanimated  and  exulting  in  the  hope  of  future  victory. 

"How  pregnant  the  lesson  this  incident  conveys !  How  many  thousand  in- 
stances there  are  in  which  inglorious  defeat  ends  the  career  of  the  timid  'andi 
desponding,  when  the  same  tenacity  of  purpose  would  crown  it  with  triumphant 
success !  Resolution  is  almost  omnipotent.  Sheridan  was  at  first  timid  and, 
obliged  to  sit  down  in  the  midst  of  a  speech.  Convinced  of,  and  mortified  at, 
the  cause  of  his  failure,  he  said  one  day  to  a  friend,  'It  is  in  me,  and  it  shall 
come  out' 

"From  that  moment  he  arose,  and  shone,  and  triumphed  in  a  consummate 
eloquence.  Here  was  true  moral  courage.  And  it  was  well  observed  by  a 
heathen  moralist,  that  it  is  not  because  things  are  difficult  that  we  dare  not 
undertake  them. 

"Be,  then,  bold  in  spirit.  Indulge  no  doubts — they  are  traitors.  In  the  prac- 
tical pursuit  of  our  high  aim,  let  us  never  lose  sight  of  it  in  the  slightest  in- 
stance:  for  it  is  more  by  a  disregard  of  small  things,  than  by  open  and  flagrant 
offenses,  that  men  come  short  of  excellence.  There  is  always  a  right  and  a> 
wrong;  and  if  you  ever  doubt,  be  sure  you  take  not  the  wrong.  Observe  this! 
rule,  and  every  experience  will  be  to  you  a  means  of  advancement." 

THE  TESTIMONY  OF  THE  GOSPEL  IN  US  MUST  COME  OUT 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  in  us,  it  must  come  out.  We 
have  the  testimony  in  our  souls  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet  of  the  living  God,  that  God, 
through  him,  established  this  Church  in  this  dispensation,  never- 
more to  be  thrown  down  or  given  to  another  people.  As  I  looked 
at  the  f  aces  of  this  vast  audience  of  the  priesthood  before  me,  I 
wondered  if  there  is  made  that  determined  effort  for  success, 
that  firmness  maintained  that  is  so  essential  to  success  in  every 
vocation  of  life,  and  in  their  belief  in  any  principle;  that  if  it  were, 
what  could  not  be  accomplished.  I  am  not  afraid  of  the  ultimate 
success  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  God 
is  at  the  helm.  I  can  see  every  year  that  passes  by,  step  by  step, 
it  is  gaining  its  way  and  men  are  studying  the  results  of  it ;  men 
who  hold  mighty  positions,  men  of  affairs.  While,  of  course,  they 
have  not  the  knowledge  that  it  was  from  God,  they  can't  but 
look  at  the  results  of  it,  and  they  can't  but  see  there  is  some- 
thing in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  greater  than  mere  numbers  of 
souls.  If  we  are  faithful,  if  we  are  true  to  the  covenants  that  wQ 
have  made  with  God,  if  we  have,  an  eye  single  to  his  glory,  if  wa 
think  more  of  God's  work  and  its  success  than  of  our  own  in-i 
dividual  success,  or  our  own  individual  positions  in  this  world,  I 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


29 


say  to  you  now  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  will  grow  just  as  fast 
as  God  wants  it  to  grow,  ,or  knows  that  the  people  are  ready  for 
it  to  grow. 

PREJUDICES  NOT  ALL  ELIMINATED 

The  prejudices  against  our  people  that  have  been  so  bitter  in 
the  past  are  not  all  eliminated  yet.  Perhaps  they  never  will  be 
until  final  success  comes,  but  I  want  to  testify  to  you  that  this 
wall  of  prejudice  is  crumbling,  it  is  being  destroyed  in  the  minds 
of  the  opposition  when  they  see  the  results  of  "Mormonism"  in 
the  community  in  which  "Mormons"  live,  and  I  haven't  any  doubt, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  final  triumph  of  the  work  of  God 
will  come  in  his  own  due  time.  I  thank  God  for  his  Spirit  made 
manifest  to  us  this  day.  My  heart  gave  echo  to  all  that  has  been 
said,  and  I  am,  with  my  brethren,  interested  in  the  advancement  of 
the  Church  that  it  may  spread  to  all  the  four  corners  of  the  earth, 
that  the  testimony  of  the  elders  shall  be  heard  in  all  lands. 

A  WEALTH  OF  SPIRITUALITY  AND  FAITH 

I  wondered  when  we  were  singing  the  last  song  if  every  per- 
son in  the  world  could  have  heard  it — and  that  time  may  c'ome 
when  they  can  do  so,  if  they  desire — what  effect  it  would  have 
had  upon  them.  1  know  that  no  stranger,  no  man,  could  have 
been  in  this  building  today  and  heard  the  song  that  was  sung  and 
the  power  that  was  manifested  by  every  one  who  took  part  in  the 
singing  and  not  have  been  touched  to  the  heart.  He  never 
could  have  said  there  is  not  faith  among  the  people  known 
as  the  "Mormons."  He  never  could  have  claimed  that  there  was 
not  a  wealth  of  spirituality  and  faith  emanating  from  those  who 
have  taken  part  in  the  singing  and  speaking,  both  would  have  im- 
pressed him  with  the  earnestness  and  with  the  truthfulness  of  the 
words  that  were  sung  and  the  testimonies  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  as  proclaimed. 

GOD  LIVES  AND  THIS  IS  HIS  CHURCH 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  want  to  leave  with  you  today  that 
testimony  for  which  I  prayed  so  long.  My  mother  said  if  I  would 
keep  myself  unspotted  from  the  sins  of  the  world  it  would  come, 
and  this  is  that  testimony,  that  I  know  that  God  lives  and  this  is 
his  Church.  I  hope,  as  long  as  I  have  breath,  that  whatever  is  re- 
quired of  me  as  a  servant  of  God,  I  shall  be  perfectly  willing  to  do, 
to  make  sacrifice  of  any  name  or  nature,  even  unto  life  itself;  and 
if  a  humble  prayer,  offered  to  my  heavenly  Father  morning  and 
night,  will  keep  me  in  that  same  frame  of  mind,  I  shall  glorify  his 
name  and  thank  my  Maker  for  that  testimony. 

May  God's  choicest  blessings  be  with  his  people.  May  they 
increase  in  wisdom,  and  may  their  works  be  such  that  the  world 
seeing  them  will  concede  that  they  are  directed  from  other  sources 
than  man,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

We  believe  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet;  that  Joseph  Smith 
is  a  prophet ;  and  that  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  through  him, 
has  been  re-established  upon  the  earth. 

BEAUTY,  POWER  AND  GLORY  OF  THE  CHURCH 

In  this  Church  organization,  as  I  see  it,  there  is  every  element  that 
will  make  people  stronger,  better  and  happier,  and  I  am  of  the  opinion, 
at  times,  that  we  ourselves,  who  are  the  living  elements  of  this  great 
Church,  do  not  comprehend  its  beauty,  its  power  and  its  glory. 

ADDRESSES  AT  THE  OFFICER'S  MEETING,  Y.  M.  M.  I.  A. 

We  had  a  meeting  of  the  officers  of  the  Young  Men's  Mutual 
Improvement  Associations  of  the  Church,  in  the 'Bishop's  Building,  this 
morning  at  8  o'clock.  We  listened  to  addresses  given  by  four  of 
our  ninety-six  Y.  M:.  M.  I.  A.  stake  superintendents.  We  have 
one  stake  superintendent  in  each  of  the  ninety-six  stakes  of  the  . 
Church. 

These  superintendents  are  but  young  men.  I  wish  all  of  you 
could  have  heard  the  four  who  spoke  this  morning.  They  stood  before 
that  great  group  of  Mutual  Improvement  workers  like  generals  at  the 
head  of  an  army. 

I  was  so  profoundly  impressed  by  the  scripture  which  one  of  these 
speakers  quoted  that  I  am  going  to  read  it  to  you : 

"Now  behold,  a  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  among  the 
children  of  men."    (Doc.  and  Cov.  4:1.) 

This,  the  L.  D.  S.  Church,  is  that  marvelous  work.  And  the  more 
I  study  it,  the  more  marvelous  things  I  find  in  it. 

MORE  BLESSED  TO  GIVE  THAN  TO  RECEIVE 

The  whole  Christian  world  is  pretty  generally  agreed,  I  believe, 
that  there  is  hardly  a  more  important  element  in  the  teachings  and  in 
the  example  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  than  that  expressed 
by  the  Apostle  Paul  when  he  said :  "Remember  the  words  of  the  Lord 
Jesus,  how  he  said,  It  is  more  blessed  to  give  than  it  is  to  receive." 
(Acts  20:35.) 

Measured  by  this  matchless  measuring  stick  given  by  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  the  L.  D.  S.  Church  is  marvelous.  In  all  the  world 
there  is  no  other  institution  which,  in  proportion  to  its  size,  has 
in  it  so  many  volunteer  workers,  or  so  many  who  contribute  so  lavishly, 
of  both  time  and  money,  as  do  its  members,  into  whose  souls  has  come 
the  conviction,  as  a  result  of  faith,  prayer  and  righteous  living,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of 
the  gospel  men  may  be  saved,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet. 
Match  if  you  can  in  any  other  organization  anywhere  the  unselfishness 
of  our  army  of  two  thousand  missionaries  who  preach  the  gospel,  as 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


31 


we  believe  it,  in  nearly  every  quarter  of  the  globe  without  money  and 
without  price.  These  not  only  give  their  time  to  this  great  cause,  but 
they  pay  their  own  expenses. 

OUR  VOLUNTEER  WORKERS  IN  THE  CHURCH 

It  is  not,  however,  of  the  missionaries  abroad,  but  of  the  volunteer 
workers  at  home  that  I  desire  to  speak  on  this  occasion. 

Each  of  these  ninety-six  stake  superintendents  of  the  Y.  M. 
M.  I.  A.  has  two  counselors,  a  stake  secretary,  and  when  completely 
organized  at  least  five  other  stake  board  members.  To  each  one  of 
these  board  members  is  assigned  the  chairmanship  of  a  specific  com- 
mittee. Thus  in  all  the  Church  we  have  in  the  Young  Men's  Mutual 
Improvement  organization  in  the  neighborhood  of  a  thousand  stake 
officers.  We  have  in  addition  about  five  officers  for  each  ward,  or 
approximately  four  thousand  ward  officers.  There  are  therefore  in 
the  Young  Men's  organization  as  stake  and  ward  officers  approximately 
five  thousand  men. 

Since  the  Young  Men's  organization  is  but  one  of  the  five  aux- 
iliary organizations  of  the  Church,  and,  further,  since  the  other  or- 
ganizations probably  have  approximately  the  same  number  of  officers 
as  has  the  Y.  jM.  M.  I.  A.,  this  means  that  throughout  the  Church 
we  have  approximately  twenty-five  thousand  officers  in  these  auxiliary 
organizations.  Twenty-five  thousand  volunteer  workers !  Where  else 
in  all  the  world  can  such  another  volunteer  group  be  found?  These 
are  struggling  for  the  good  of  humanity  without  any  hope  of  reward, 
except  the  satisfaction  which  comes  from  living -in  accordance  with 
that  Christian  principle  that  it  is  more  blessed  to  give  than  to  receive. 
The  L.  D.  S.  Church  is  the  marvelous  work  referred  to  which  has  come 
forth  among  the  children  of  men. 

Let  me  make  it  clear  that  I  am  not  now  speaking  of  the  Church 
organization  proper.  I  am  not  referring  to  the  presidents  of  stakes 
and  bishops  of  wards  and  the  presiding  officers  of  the  various  quorums 
of  the  priesthood.  The  twenty-five  thousand  officers  I  refer  to,  are 
serving  in  our  auxiliary  organizations,  and  these  are  but  helps  in 
the  government  of  the  Church,  they  do  not  constitute  the  main 
Church  organization. 

MISSIONARY  WORK  IN  THE  Y.  M.  M.  I.  A. 

But  let  me  refer  further  to  the  remarks  of  our  Mutual  Improve- 
ment superintendents  who  spoke  at  our  8  o'clock  meeting  this  morning. 
Another  of  the  four  speakers  outlined  the  plan  of  work  which  he  and 
the  other  volunteer  workers  of  his  stake  propose  to  carry  out.  He 
reported  progress  regarding  the  Y.  M.  M.  I.  A.  card  record.  His 
remarks  were  somewhat  like  this :  "In  our  stake  the  organization  for 
doing  missionary  work  is  practically  complete.  We  have  prepared  a 
card  for  all  the  male  members  of  our  ward  between  the  ages  of  twelve 
and  thirty.   If  one  of  these,  in  any  ward  of  our  stake,  does  not  attend 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


our  Mutual  Improvement  meetings,  our  plan  is  to  have  him  visited  at 
leasl  once  each  month.  These  cards  are  already  in  the  hands  of  our 
missionaries.  On  the  hack  of  the  card,  which  contains  the  name  of 
the  individual  visited,  the,  visitor  will  record  his  own  name,  the  datf  of 
his  visit  and  any  comments  concerning  this  individual  case  which  may 
seem  necessary." 

Thus  we  propose  in  this  Young  Men's  organization,  to  reach  every 
boy  in  every  ward,  however  poor,  however  unfortunate  that  hoy  may 
he.  We  expect  to  extend  the  helping  hand  to  the  boy  who,  for  any 
reason  whatever,  may  Ik-  required  to  fight  a  difficult  or  an  unfair  fight. 
Each  and  every  month  we  propose  to  "visit  the  fatherless  in  their 
afflictions,"  and  with  the  help  of  divine  Providence  keep  all  young 
men  in  every  part  of  the  Church  "unspotted  from  the  world."  (James 
1:2?.) 

Let  me  explain  further  what  we  expect  to  do  with  these  young 
men,  if  the  missionaries  succeed  in  bringing  them  to  the  meetings  of 
our  organization.  If  you  have  a  son  who  is  careless,  we  are  going  to 
try  to  make  him  serious  and  industrious.  If  your  neighbor  has  a  son 
wiio  is  careless,  we  propose  to  do  the  same  thing  with  him  also. 
Wherever  we  find  a  boy  who  is  not  interested  in  study,  we  hope  to 
arouse  within  him  an  interest  in  his  school  work.  Where  we  find  boys 
who  are  living  in  idleness,  it  is  our  aim  to  encourage  them  to  be 
ambitions  and  to  go  to  work.  If  we  find  a  boy  who  is  a  spendthrift, 
we  aim  to  impress  upon  him  lessons  of  frugality.  We^aim  to  teach 
young  men  to  stand  erect,  to  step  with  the  elastic  step,  to  practice  the 
teachings  of  the  Scout  organization,  to  be  true  to  God  and  to  country, 
to  help  other  people  at  all  times,  to  keep  themselves  physically  strong, 
mentally  awake,  and  morally  straight.  In  short,  we  are  struggling  to 
make  these  Mutual  Improvement  members  perfect,  even  as  our  Father 
in  heaven  is  perfect. 

LABORS   OF  GENERAL  BOARD  MEMBERS 

We  have,  as  members  of  our  General  Board,  those  who  have  had 
extensive  scientific  training.  We  have  among  them  men  who  are 
teachers,  men  who  are  experts  in  psychology.  Many  of  our  General 
Board  members  are  products  of  the  best  schools  of  our  country. 
Unitedly  these  Hoard  Members  have  prepared  a  program  for  young 
men  so  broad  that  we  hope  to  be  able  with  it  to  reach  and  touch  ef- 
fectively the  life  of  any  man's  son,  whatever  may  be  the  qualifications 
of  that  son. 

PROGRAM  OF  INSTRUCTION  IN  THE  M.  I.  A. 

(  hir  program  is  so  varied  that  we  expect  some  portion  of  it 
will  appeal  to  something  in  the  life  of  every  boy.  And  with  these 
numerous  activities  our  plan  and  hope  and  expectation  is  that  we 
shall  lie  able  to  give  to  every  boy  at  least  enough  religion,  enough  in- 
formation concerning  the  teachings  and  the  love  and  the  example  of 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


33 


Jesus  the  Son  of  God,  to  fill  him  with  genuine  ambition  and  to  keep 
him  walking  in  paths  of  virtue. 1 

If  a  young  man  is  interested  in  debate,  we  are  providing  an  oppor- 
tunity for  him  to  express  that  impulse.  If  he  is  interested  in  dramatics, 
here  he  will  find  an  opportunity  to  give  expression  to  his  natural 
fondness  for  playing"  the  part  of  another.  If,  perhaps,  he  has  a 
natural  interest  in  music,  opportunity  will  be  provided  in  our  Mutual 
Improvement  program  for  him  to  give  expression  to  this  musical  urge 
or  impulse.  Whatever  his  aim,  his  desire,  his  ambition,  we  are  aiming 
to  provide  in  our  Mutual  Improvement  organization  an  opportunity 
for  him  to  express  it. 

We  give  to  our  Mutual  Improvement  members  lessons  in  honesty. 
We  teach  them  to  be  true,  to  be  chaste,  to  be  benevolent.  We  teach 
them  that  we  believe  in  doing  good  to  all  men  at  all  times.  We  teach 
them,  in  the  language  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  to  "Remember 
faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  temperance,  patience,  brotherly  kindness, 
godliness,  charity,  humility,  diligence."    (Doc.  and  Cov.  4:6,) 

These,  the  fundamental  elements  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ — 
these  are  the  doctrines  and  principles  and  practices  we  are  aiming  to 
bring  into  the  lives^of  the  young  people  of  the  Church.  We  desire  to 
.have  them,  by  keeping  the  commandments,  receive  as  a  part  of  their 
lives,  their  very  beings,  that  something,  that  unexplainable  something, 
that  came  into  the  life  of  Saul  of  Tarsus.  It  was  a  light  from  heaven, 
but  it  touched  his  life,  it  touched  his  soul,  it  transformed  a  heart  of 
hate  into  a  heart  of  love.  It  transformed  Saul  of  Tarsus  into  Paul  the 
apostle.  It  is  the  aim  of  our  organization  in  the  teachings  of  this  year 
so  to  train  our  young  folks  that  they  may  know  as  Job  knew  when  he 
said:  "I  know  that  my  Redeemer  liveth."  (Job.  19:25.)  When 
we  are  teaching  them  to  live  that  prayerful  life,  that  life  of  faith,  we  are 
teaching  them  to  practice  that  righteous  living  which  brings  into  human 
hearts  that  knowledge  for  which  we  seek,  that  knowledge  we  desire 
all  our  young  folks  to  have ;  namely,  a  conviction  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  is  his  prophet. 

I  shall  conclude  with  the  words  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
which  one  of  our  superintendents  used  this  morning : 

"O  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve  him 
with  all  your  heart,- might,  mind  and  strength,  that  ye  may  stand 
blameless  before  God  at  the  last  day."  (Doc.  and  Cov.  4:2.)  The 
Lord  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

I  desire,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  read  a  few  verses  from 
the  26th  chapter  of  II  Nephi,  beginning  with  the  23rd  verse,  as 
follows : 

THE  GOSPEL  UNIVERSAL 

"For  behold,  my  beloved  brethren,  T  say  unto  you  that  the  Lord  worketh  no* 
in  darkness. 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"He  doeth  not  anything  save  it  he  for  the  benefit  of  the  world;  for  ht 
loveth  the  world,  even  that  he  layeth  down  his  own  life  that  he  may  draw  all 
men  unto  him.  Wherefore,  he  commandeth  none  that  they  shall  not  partake 
of  his  salvation. 

"Behold,  doth  he  cry  unto  any,  saying:  Depart  from  me?  Behold,  I  say 
unto  you,  Nay;  but  he  saith :  Come  unto  me  all  ye  ends  of  the  earth,  buy  milk 
and  honey,  without  money  and  without  price. 

"Behold,  hath  he  commanded  any  that  they  should  depart  out  of  the  syna- 
gogues, or  out  of  the  houses  of  worship  ?   Behold,  I  say  unto  you,  Nay. 

"Hath  he  commanded  any  that  they  should,  not  partake  of  his  salvation? 
Behold  I  say  unto  you,  Nay;  but  Ihe  hath  given  it  free  for  all  men;  and  he 
hath  commanded  his  people  that  they  should  persuade  all  men  to  repentance. 

"Behold,  hath  the  Lord  commanded  any  that  they  should  not  partake  of 
his  goodness?  Behold,  I  say  unto  you,  Nay;  but  all  men  are  privileged  the 
one  like  unto  the  ether,  and  none  are  forbidden." 

I  read  now  from  the  33rd  verse: 

"For  the  Lord  doeth  that  which  is  good  among  the  children  of  men;  and 
he  doeth  nothing  save  it  be  plain  unto  the  children  of  men;  and  he  inviteth 
them  all  to  come  unto  him  and  partake  of  his  goodness;  and  he  denieth  none 
that  come  unto  him,  black  and  white,  bond  and  free,  male  and  female;  and  he 
remembereth  the  heathen;  and  all  are  alike  unto  God,  both  Jew  and  Gentile." 

A  BETTER  UNDERSTANDING 

It  has  been  my  privilege  in  association  with  my  companions, 
Brothers  Rulpn  S.  Wells  and  Rey  L.  Pratt,  during  the  past  year 
to  come  to  a  better  understanding  of  the  Lord's  feeling  towards  his 
sons  and  daughters,  as  expressed  in  this  scripture  that  I  have  just 
read  to  you.  As  you  have  heard,  we  were  assigned  to  go  as  the 
first  missionaries  of  the  Church  to  South  America. 

FIRST  MISSIONARY  VISIT  IN  SOUTH  AMERICA 

However,  you  students  of  our  history  will  remember  that 
Bother  Parley  P.  Pratt  made  a  visit  to  the  west  coast  of  that  coun- 
try about  seventy  years  ago.  He  remained  for  a  few  months,  until 
his  means  were  exhausted,  struggling  with  the  Spanish  language. 
He  was  not  so  fortunate  as  we  were,  because  we  had  his  grand- 
son, Brother  Rey  L.  Pratt,  who  is  a  master  of  the  Spanish  language. 
That  enabled  us  to  do  a  work  that  Brother  Parley  was  unable 
to  do.  Then  I  am  also  sure  that  there  has  been  going  forward 
in  South  America,  in  these  last  seventy  years,  a  marvelous  change 
that  was  necessary  to  prepare  the  hearts  of  the  people  and  the 
governments  for  the  coming  of  the  gospel  message.  We  knew, 
however,  that  it  was  not  going  to  be  easy,  but  we  were  willing 
to  go  to  the  ends  of  the  earth,  to  make  any  kind  of  sacrifice,  to 
discharge  the  great  obligation  which  the  Lord  has  placed  upon 
his  Church,  to  bring  to  all  men  the  glad  news  that  he  has  spoken 
again,  and  has  established  his  Church  in  the  earth,  that  all  flesh, 
black  and  white,  bond  and  free,  Jew  and  Gentile,  all  may  know 
of  these  good  things  which  the  Lord  has  done. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


35 


RECENT  MISSIONARY  WORK  IN  SOUTH  AMERICA 

We  took  a  long  journey  into  that  south  land — and,  by  the  way, 
there  were  some  who  wondered  why  we  did  not  go  to  San 
Franscisco  and  sail  to  South  America  from  that  point,  but  if  you 
will  look  up  the  map  and  draw  a  line  straight  south  from  New,. 
York  City,  your  line  will  carry  you  about  two  hundred  miles  west 
of  Valparaiso,  on  the  coast  of  Chile.  So  practically  all  of  South 
America  lies  east  of  New  York  City.  We  sailed  from  New  York 
City  on  the  14th  day  of  November,  and  after  six  days  and  six! 
nights  we  reached  one  of  the  islands  of  the  West  Indies.  We  felt 
sure  that  we  were  a  long  distance  from  home.  We  might  have 
been  in  Europe  by  that  time.  Then  we  sailed  nine  days  and  nine 
nights  without  seeing  land,  and  then  found  ourselves  opposite  the 
eastern  point  of  South  America,  and  not  many  hundred  miles  west 
of  the  British  Isles.  Then  three  days  more  and  we  were  into  the 
harbor  at  Rio  de  Janeiro,  off  the  coast  of  Brazil.  Then  five  days 
more  and  we  reached  our  destination  at  Buenos  Aires,  the  great 
^southern  capital,  a  city  of  two  million  two  hundred  fifty  thousand 
people.  I  said  to  some  of  the  brethren  that  it  was  a  strange  expe- 
rience as  we  passed  out  of  New  York  City  in  a  cold  winter's  wind, 
to  go  into  the  balmy  summer  climate  of  South  America,  where 
summer  there  is  winter  here ;  to  pass  under  the  equator  and  have 
the  sun  move  off  to  the  north  and  arise  in  the  northeast  and  set 
in  the  northwest  and  the  moon  to  follow  likewise ;  and  all  the  stars 
we  knew  to  disappear,  and  a  new  heaven  and  a  new  earth  came 
into  view,  for  it  was  a  different  kind  of  earth  from  ours,  different 
vegetation,  climate,  people,  and  to  me  a  different  language,  until 
I  felt  like  one  entirely  removed  from  the  world  I  knew.  I  am 
grateful,  that  we  had  Brother  Pratt's  assistance  in  speaking  the 
Spanish ;  and  Brother  Wells'  assistance  in  speaking  the  German, 
for  we  had  two  families  of  German-speaking  people  in  Buenos 
Aires  who  had  joined  the  Church  in  Germany.  With  Brother 
Wells'  assistance  we  succeeded  in  carrying  the  work  forward 
among  the  German-speaking  people  of  that  section,  and  before 
Brother  Wells  had  to  return  it  was  our  privilege  to  take  six  of 
them  into  the  waters  of  baptism,  the  first  converts  baptized  in 
South  America.  Brother  Wells'  return  was  a  great  sorrow  to  us 
because  of  his  companionship  and  his  knowledge  of  the  German 
language,  but  his  illness  was  such,  and  it  continued  to  recur, 
that  we  felt  his  life  was  in  danger.  He  was  an  exceedingly  sick 
man,  and  yet  Brother  Wells  would  have  been  glad  to  have  stayed 
there  and  laid  down  his  life.  It  was  a  great  disappointment  to  us 
to  have  him  go  home,  but  it  was  necessary,  and  he  was  willing  to 
respond  to  the  suggestion  and  as  cheerfully  go  as  to  stay. 

Then  Brother  Pratt  and  myself  continued  our  work  with  the 
German  people  as  best  we  could,  but  it  was  difficult.  I  had  to 
tell  Brother  Pratt  in  English  what  to  tell  them,  and  he  told  it 
in  the  Spanish  to  a  German  girl  who  could  speak  a  little  Spanish. 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


She  interpreted  it  in  German  to  our  friends,  and  the  answer  came 
hack  in  the  same  grapevine  way.  But  we  were  successful  in  hold- 
ino-  them  and  in  increasing  interest  among  others  until  our  little 
.■roup  erew.  When  Brother  Stoof  reached  us,  being  a  master  of 
the  German  language,  he  was  able  to  take  up  that  work  and  push 
it  forward,  so  that  it  is  in  a  very  prosperous  condition  today.  There 
are  a  number  of  others  who  have  become  interested. 

DIFFICULTIES  ENCOUNTERED 

The  principal  work  that  Brother  Pratt  and  myself  undertook 
was  among  the  Spanish-speaking  people,  and  I  would  like  you  to 
know  that  Spanish  is  the  language  of  South  America.  While  there 
are  here  and  there  small  groups  of  English  and  small  groups  of 
German-speaking  people,  practically  all  of  them  speak  Spanish. 
So  that  one  is  as  helpless  down  there  without  Spanish  as  he  would 
be  in  the  United  States  without  English.  We  undertook  to  secure 
a  hall,  |but  there  were  no  halls  such  as  we  have  in  this  country. 
Conditions  are  different.  When  we  did  try  to  rent  some  of  them, 
we  could  not  secure  them  because  they  were  recreation  halls,  and 
the  chief  activities  were  going  forward  on  Sunday  night,  and  they 
did  not  .Wish  a  religious  service  to  disturb  them.  So  for  two 
months  we  battled  with  that  problem.  We  tried  to  rent  office 
quarters  to  make  halls  out  of  them,  but  were  unsuccessful. 

At  last  we  did  secure  a  place  and  rented  all  of  it,  a  store  and 
living  quarters,  and  then  we  began  to  invite  people  to  come.  In 
the  meantime,  however,  we  had  gone  to  our  friends  who  live  in 
the  suburbs  or  outskirts  of  the  city.  That  was  not  the  easiest 
work  to  do,  because  we  traveled  two  hours  on  the  street  car  and 
then  walked  two  miles,  not  on  paved  streets,  but  on  lanes,  through 
fields,  in  mud,  in  dust,  and  all  character  of  weather,  and  then  when 
we  did  this  all  we  could  get  to  come  to  our  meetings,  for  nearly 
two  months,  were  children. 

"a  little  child  shall  lead  them"  .  • 

There  was  no  prejudice  against  us,  in  fact  the  great  majority 
of  the  people  did  not  even  know  there  was  a  United  States  of 
North  America  or  anything  about  it,  much  less  did  they  know  any- 
thing about  the  "Mormon"  Church.  'The  chief  lack  of  interest  was 
because  we  were  not  Catholic.  The  whole  country  is  Catholic, 
as  you  know.  Nevertheless  we  said:  "We  shall  not  abandon  our 
effort  to  reach  the  people."  And  we  learned  anew  that  "a  little 
child  shall  lead  them."  We  continued  with  those  children,  teaching 
them  to  sing,  teaching  them  to  pray,  to  repeat  the  Lord's  prayer, 
the  Articles  of  Faith,  and  the  Ten  Commandments.  They  carried 
these  prayers  and  songs  into  their  homes,  and  then  one  .parent 
appeared,  and  another,  and  another,  and  we  finally  organized  a 
group  meeting  of  adults,  and  continued  to  teach  the  children. 
The  children  brought  their  parents- — and  that  was  true  in  several 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


37 


places  that  had  opened  for  us.  Then  we  moved  forward  into  homes 
of  those  who  had  become  interested,  and  to  our  great  joy  we  saw 
that  the  same  wonderful  response  was  being  manifest  in  the  hearts 
of  the  people  of  that  land  as  elsewhere,  and  a  splendid  Spanish 
woman,  came  forward  and  signified  her  absolute  conviction  that 
we  had  brought  the  truth.  She  resisted  all  kinds  of  opposition  that 
was  arrayed  against  her,  and  it  was  our  privilege  to  bring  her  into 
the  fold  of  Christ.  I  want  to  bear  witness  that  there  is  not  in  the 
Church  anywhere  a  more  devoted,  faithful  Latter-day  Saint  than 
Sister  Sifuentes,  in  the  city  of  Buenos  Aires.  I  am  therefore  moved 
to  say  that  I  do  believe  that  the  Lord  is  no  respecter  of  persons 
or  of  nations,  and  that  all  who  will  receive  him  and  his  message 
shall  likewise  have  equal  privileges  in  his  blessed  gospel.  She 
became  an  active  and  energetic  missionary. 

ITALIANS  INTERESTED  IN  THE  RESTORED  GOSPEL 

Then  some  Italians  became  interested.  There  are  two  million 
of  them  in  the  Republic  of  Argentina.  When  our  assistants  came, 
Brother  Stoof  and  his  wife,  Brother  Sharp  and  Brother  Stoddard, 
splendid  workers,  we  introduced  them  into  those  places  where  we 
had  started  meetings,  and  our  largest  group  increased  until  we 
had  an  average  attendance  of  about  sixty  adults.  We  left  them 
with  places  for  meetings  every  night  in  the  week,  except  Saturday 
night,  and  three  places  on  Sunday.  We  left  a  small  group  con- 
verted, for  eleven  of  them  signified  to  us  their  intention  of  joining 
the  Church  and  bore  testimony  to  the  truth  of  the  message  wei 
had  brought  them.  When  we  finally  did  leave,  there  were  as  many 
tears  shed  at  our  departure  in  Buenos  Aires  as  there  had  been  in 
Salt  Lake  City  when  we  left  here  a  year  ago.  Since  leaving  that 
land  four  splendid  Italians,  three  men  and  a  woman,  have  joined 
the  Church,  and  others  in  addition  to  the  eleven  that  I  have  referred 
to  have  become  interested. 

It  was  a  long,  hard  fight  for  us.  I  have  no  word  of  censure 
for  the  people.  They  had  prejudices  against  the  religion  we  were 
advocating  because  it  was  not  Catholic.  We  were  foreigners  and 
strangers  to  them.  But  I  rejoice  in  saying  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  God  was  good  to  us  and  he  opened  the  door  so  that 
ultimately  we  had  the  privilege  of  laying  the  foundation  of  the 
Church  in  that  land,  and  from  a  membership  of  four  adults, 
when  we  reached  that  land,  we  have  left  twenty-four  Latter-day 
Saints,  with  the  work  started  in  those  three  languages.-  We  met 
no  opposition,  as  far  as  the  government  is  concerned,  notwith- 
standing there  is  a  union  of  church  and  state  in  all  the  So'uth  Ameri- 
can republics,  save  Chile.  There  was  a  separation  of  church  and 
state  in  Chile  a  year  ago.  Yet  there  is  religious  liberty  in  all 
those  countries  for  our  missionary  work. 

A  DIFFICULT  MISSIONARY  WORK 

I  found  great  difficulty  in  fully  satisfying  myself,  because  of  my 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


inability  to  preach  the  gospel  to  them  through  not  knowing  their 
language ;  however,  I  learned  to  read  it  and  converse  with  the  peo- 
ple. T  satisfied  myself  in  part,  however,  by  assisting  in  the  splendid 
work  that  Brother  Pratt  was  performing,  by  inviting  the  people  to 
our  meetings,  and  having  him  translate  into  Spanish  the  testimony 
I  wanted  to  bear  to  the  people  of  that  land.  I  had  the  privilege  of 
visiting  twelve  thousand  five  hundred  homes,  giving  them  this 
printed  message  and  inviting  the  people  to  our  meetings.  We  held 
two  hundred  thirty-four  meetings,  so  that  Brother  Pratt  was  very 
busy  preaching  to  the  people.  We  enjoyed  the  experience,  al- 
though we  had  to  do  things  just  like- we  did  when  we  started  out 
in  the  commencement  of  our  missionary  work,  like  we  did  when 
we  traveled  without  purse  or  scrip.  It  was  the  most  difficult 
piece  of  missionary  work  that  I  have  undertaken,  but  I  thank  the 
Lord  that  success  has  come  out  of  it,  that  a  foundation  has  been 
laid,  and  I  am  convinced  that  it  is  possible  for  the  gospel  to  be 
carried  to  all  the  people  of  that  land. 

VISIT  TO  THE  INDIANS  ON  THE  GREAT  ANDES  PLATEAU 

It  was  our  privilege,  through  the  permission  of  the  Presidency, 
to  return  via  the  West  coast.  We  were  anxious  not  to  go  away 
from  South  America  until  we  had  seen  the  Indians  of  that  land. 
So  in  the  Northern  part  of  the  Argentina  we  met  them,  hundreds 
of  thousands  of  them.  We  passed  up  to  the  plateau  of  the  great 
Andes  mountains,  a  plateau  five  hundred  miles  long  by  a  hundred 
and  fifty  miles  wide,  at  an  elevation  of  twelve  thousand  feet,  in- 
habited by  Indians.  We  lived  for  some  three  weeks  with  them,  slept 
in  their  houses,  ate  at  their  tables,  saw  millions  of  them.  There 
are  two  million  eight 'hundred  sixty  thousand  people  in  the  Republic 
of  Bolivia,  nearly  two  million  of  them  being  pure-blood  Indians. 
There  are  four  million  six  hundred  twenty  thousand  people  in 
Peru,  and  more  than  three  million  and  a  half  of  them  are  pure- 
blood  Indians.  There  are  two  classes  of  Indians.  One  is  the  half- 
breed,  a  descendant  of  the  Spanish  soldier,  and  the  majority  of  the 
leaders  of  South  American  countries  have  Indian  blood  in  them, 
but  unfortunately  they  do  not  esteem  that  Indian  blood,  but  are 
rather  more  proud  of  their  Spanish  blood.  Not  until  the  day  shall 
come  when  they  come  to  an  understanding  of  who  they  are,  and 
that  the  Indian  blood  is  of  Israel  and  is  of  the  best  blood  in  the 
world,  will  their  hearts  turn  in  sympathy  and  love  to  the  down- 
trodden and  oppressed  of  their  own  brothers  and  sisters,  the  full- 
blood  Indians. 

CONDITION  OF  THE  SOUTH  AMERICAN  INDIANS 

I  have  never  seen  a  more  industrious,  hard-working  lot  of 
people  in  my  life  than  the  millions  of  Indians  we  saw  in  Bolivia  and 
Peru.  My  heart  went  out  to  them  in  anxious  desire,  for  I  saw 
them  as  they  are  in  Mexico,  in  poverty,  robbed  of  their  lands  and 
their  glorious  civilization,  a  much  better  civilization  than  was 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


39 


brought  by  Pizarro.  A  better  civilization  than  they  have  in  those 
countries  was  destroyed  ruthlessly,  and  they  were  murdered,  and 
their  lands  taken.  They  were  despoiled  and  have  been  trodden 
down  and  have  remained  very  largely  in  a  state  of  semi-slavery 
until  today.  With  all  their  toil  and  labor  they  ought  to  be  a  rich 
and  independent  people,  if  they  could  only  have  the  returns  that 
come  from  their  labor.  But  the  majority  of  the  returns  are  taken 
by  the  land  holders,  for  fifteen  per  cent  of  the  men  in  South 
America  own  ninety-five  per  cent  of  the  land,  and  these  conditions 
have  obtained  for  many  years,  until  they  are  in  a  state  of  poverty, 
and  yet  they  are  in  the  majority  in  many  of  those  countries. 
But  the  right  of  suffrage  is  only  extended  to  those  who  can  read 
and  write,  and  the  majority  of  the  Indians  cannot  read  or  write. 
Few  schools  are  provided  for  them  to  learn  to  read  and  write,  and 
they  are  like  a  great  sleeping  giant.  Many  of  them  ispeak  the 
Spanish  language.  So  Brother  Pratt  and  I  cannot  see  why  the 
missionary  work  shall  not  quickly  come  unto  them. 

THE  DAY  OF  THE  INDIANS'  REDEMPTION  DRAWING  NIGH 

It  was  our  privilege  to  call  on  the  government  officials  of 
both  Bolivia  and  Peru,  and  to  explain  our  mission  and  desire  to! 
have  missionaries  go  to  those  lands.  We  were  assured  that  our 
missionaries  would  be  welcome,  and  that  there  would  be  no  ob- 
jection on  the  part  of  the  Government.  It  is  our  desire  that  those 
precious  promises  made  to  their  forefathers  shall  be  fulfilled.  They 
shall  pass  through  the  same  changes  that  are  going  forward  in 
Mexico,  but  they  shall  come  out  of  their  serfdom  and  bondage  into 
the  light  of  freedom  in  religious,  as  well  as  in  political  matters, 
and  the  day  of  retribution  and  their  redemption,  I  am  sure,  is 
not  far  distant. 

SPAIN  AND  ITALY  ENTITLED  TO  HEAR  THE  GOSPEL 

I  desire  to  bear  testimony  to  what  President  Ivins  said  here 
this  morning.  ,1  believe  that  the  beginning  of  this  gospel  dis- 
pensation, as  set  forth  in  one  of  these  revelations,  was  the  com- 
mencement of  the  times  of  the  Gentiles.  I  believe  that  that  gen- 
eration which  saw  the  dawn  of  this  gospel  dispensation  shall  not 
pass  away  until  the  times  of  the  Gentiles  shall  be  fulfilled,  and  after 
the  days  of  the  Gentiles  cometh  the  day  of  Israel.  I  am  anxious, 
therefore,  that  in  the  period  which  yet  remains  to  the  Gentile  na- 
tions to  hear  the  gospel  message,  we  shall  send  forth  the  help  nec- 
essary, not  only  to  those  South  American  countries,,  but  my  soul 
has  been  turned  towards  Spain,  since  I  have  been  in  that  South 
land,  and  also  toward  Italy.  I  do  not  feel  we  are  justified  in  the 
opportunity  we  have  given  to  either  Spain  or  Italy  or  France  or 
China  or  to  other  nations  to  hear  the  gospel ;  so  I  am  looking 
forward  for  the  time  to  come  in  the  very  near  future  when  those 
lands  shall  be  fully  given  the  opportunity.    Not  many  of  them 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


may  come  into  the  fold,  and  yet  I  believe  that  there  is  some  of' 
the  blood  of  Israel  in  Spain  and  in  Italy,  and  that  the  people  are  en- 
titled to  the  opportunity  of  hearing-  the  gospel  before  the  day  of 
judgment  shall  come.  I  bear  witness  to  you  that  the  Lord  is  al- 
ready beginning  the  work  for  the  redemption  of  the  house  of  Israel. 

THE  GOSPEL  TO  DELIVER  THE  CHILDREN  OF  FATHER  LEHI  FROM  BONDAGE 

God  gave  us  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  chief  reason,  as 
set  forth  in  one  of  the  revelations,  is  that  it  shall  be  the  means 
of  bringing  to  the  descendants  of  Father  Lehi  the  knowledge  of 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  to  establish  them  in  the  faith  of 
their  fathers.  I  bear  witness  to  you  that  nothing  on  earth  shall 
ever  bring  them  out  of  their  thraldom  save  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  I  rejoice,  therefore,  that  the  day  dawn  is  breaking, 
the  night  is  dispelling  and  the  day  of  their  redemption  cometh.  I 
have  wept  over  them,  as  I  have  seen  them  dwelling  in  ignorance 
and  poverty  in  the  midst  of  the  ruins  of  great  and  glorious  cities 
their  fathers  built.  Such  ruins  I  have  never  seen  elsewhere  of 
mighty  temples  and  cities,  the  evidence  of  their  past  wonderful 
civilization ;  and  then,  as  I  looked  upon  these  poor,  wretched  souls 
who  have  reached  their  state  of  degredation,  of  poverty  and  misery, 
through  sin,  transgression  and  oppression,  I  have  prayed  to  God  to 
bring  to  pass  their  deliverance  according  to  his  promises,  and  I  feel 
sure  that  that  day  is  at  hand.  May  the  Lord  put  it  into  the  hearts 
of  men  and  women  to  continue  to  respond  and  carry  the  gospel  mes- 
sage wherever  it  is  wanted,  and  discharge  the  mighty  responsi- 
bility that  rests  upon  this  Church  before  the  day  of  judgment  shall 
come,  that  the  Gentile  dispensation,  when  it  comes  to  a  close,  will 
find  us  having  discharged  our  obligation;  then  cometh  the  day  of 
Israel,  the  day  of  her  redemption  in  all  lands.-  I  bear  witness  to 
you  that  swiftly  moving  events  are  at  our  very  doors.  I  bear 
witness  that  God  is  crying  repentance  to  the  world  in  the  testi- 
monies of  thunder,  of  lightning  and  tempests,  and  if  they  do  not 
repent  he  will  thresh  the  nations. 

THE  TASK  AND  DUTY  OF  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

There  is  no  safety,  so  far  as  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  con- 
cerned, only  by  keeping  the  commandments  of  God.  As  I  looked 
at  the  Church  from  the  distance  of  eleven  thousand  miles,  I  admired 
what  we  have  done  in  subduing  the  desert  and  making  it  blossom 
ike  the  rose,  building  our  temples,  tabernacles,  and  factories; 
but  rising  above  them  all  and  more  splendid  and  glorious  than 
all  else  is  the  manhood  and  the  womanhood  that  has  been  estab- 
lished in  the  earth  by  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  It  is  the  biggest  thing  we  have  done,  and  may  God  help  us 
to  use  all  we  have  or  may  possess  as  but  a  means  to  the  glorious 
end  of  establishing  here  a  civilization  the  like  of  which  the  world 
does  not  know ;  that  they  may  come  from  the  East  and  the  West, 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


41 


from  the  North  and  the  South,  to  learn  of  our  ways  and  to  walk 
in  our  paths.  It  is  our  task  to  perfect  the  lives  of  these  men  and 
women,  boys  and  girls,  until  they  shall  be  the  light  of  the  world, 
the  salt  of  the  earth.  God  give  us  the  vision  to  see  it,  to  work' 
until  we  shall  be  successful,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR  VISITS  CALIFORNIA 

About  the  first  of  July  members  of  the  choir  numbering  250  took 
an  excursion  to  California^  where  they  gave  a  series  of  fine  con- 
certs. The  expense  incurred  was  approximately  $12,000.  All  of 
this  amount  except  $991.25  was  paid  from  the  receipts  of  the  con- 
certs given.  The  balance  was  paid  out  of  the  treasury  of  the  choir, 
it  being  their  proportion  of  receipts  from  concerts  given  locally 
prior  to  that  time. 

Credit  should  be  given  the  authorities  and  members  of  the  Los 
Angeles  stake  for  helping  to  make  this  trip  a  success,  for  they  all 
gave  of  their  time,  and  were  enthusiastic  in  their  efforts  to  have 
the  people  of  Los  Angeles  and  surrounding  territory  hear  the  choir. 

The  choir  is  worthy  of  the  support  of  all  the  people  who 
hear  it  so  often,  but  when  they  give  a  concert  many  of  us  do  not 
feel  the  moral  obligation,  as  well  as  the  small  financial  obligation, 
to  assist  the  choir  by  attending  their  concerts. 

PETER  WHITMER  FARM  PURCHASED 

President  Brigham  H.  Roberts  was  authorized  to  purchase,  and 
succeeded  in  purchasing,  the  Peter  Whitmer  Farm,  where  the  or- 
ganization of  the  Church  took  place.  The  deal  has  been  closed,  and 
we  are  now  the  owners  of  the  building  where  the  Church  was 
legally  organized. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Worthy  is  the  Lamb." 
The  closing'  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  George  Albert  Smith,  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

The  conference  adjourned  until  Monday,  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  October 

4. 


FIRST  OVERFLOW  MEETING 


An  overflow  meeting  of  the  conference  was  held  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Sunday,  October  3,  1926. 

Elder  Charles  H.  Hart,  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  presided. 

The  singing"  was  furnished  by  the  Tenth  ward  choir  of  Salt  Lake 
City,  Elder  Norman  Martin  conducting ;  Elder  Tracy  Y.  Cannon, 
organist. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Praise  to  the  man  who  com- 
muned with  Jehovah,"  after  which  the  choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Loyalty." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  David  R.  Lyon,  of  the  Ensign  ward, 
Salt  Lake  City. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "As  the  dew  from  heaven  distilling;" 
Sister  Mary  Salt,  soloist. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  assure  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a  pleasure  for  me  to 
be  with  you  tills  morning.  I  regret  that  we  can  not  be  in  the 
Tabernacle  where  we  could  listen  to  the  opening  address  of  our  Presi- 
dent, for  no  doubt  we  shall  miss  something  through  not  having  that 
privilege;  yet  jl  am  sure  that  if  we  have  faith,  desiring  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord,  we  shall  be  blessed  with  his  Spirit  and  shall  have  a  time 
of  rejoicing  here. 

As  I  looked  upon  the  great  throng  as  they  were  making  their  way 
early  this  morning  to  find  seats  in  the  Tabernacle  or  in  this  building,  I 
remarked  to  Bishop  Cannon  that  they  were  showing  their  faith  by 
their  works.  The  fact  that  so  many  will  come  out  in  a  rain  storm 
such  as  we  have  this  morning,  making  the  atmosphere  so  disagreeable, 
shows  that  these  people  here  hope  to  be  fed  the  bread  of  life;  and 
I  sincerely  pray  that  those  who  are  assembled  will  not  go  away  hungry, 
and  that  the  Lord  will  bless  me  while  I  address  you  and  will  give  me 
strength  and  wisdom  to  speak  to  you  words  of  truth  and  encourage- 
ment. We  have  all,  no  doubt,  discovered  that  there  is  always  more  to 
be  gained  through  personal  contact  with  the  speaker  than  through  read- 
ing his  addresses  alone,  for  personal  contact  enables  us  to  catch  the 
spirit  of  the  remarks  better  than  can  be  done  through  the  written  word. 
This  may  explain  why  so  many  are  willing  to  face  wind  and  rain  to 
be  Where  they  can  hear  the  words  of  those  whom  God  has  chosen  and 
whom  we  sustain  as  our  leaders,  for  they  are  anxious  to  receive  that 
spiritual  food  which  comes  to  those  who  attend  such  gatherings,  hungry 
for  spiritual  food.  Each  individual  may  test  for  himself  the  Savior's 
words:  "Blessed  are  they  which  do  hunger  and  thirst  after  righteous- 
ness :  for  they  shall  be  filled."  What  a  wonderful  privilege  it  is  to  par- 
take of  this  spiritual  uplift  which  brings  us  together  in  one  great  cause! 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


43 


I  found  an  interesting  example  of  this  during  the  latter  part  of 
July.  I  was  called,  by  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church,  to  take  charge 
of  an  excursion  of  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  to  California.  It 
was  a  pleasure  to  accompany  them  (and  help  to  look  after  them,  although 
a  strenuous  undertaking.  The  Choir  train  carried  more  than  three 
hundred  fifty  people,  two  hundred  fifty  of  whom  were  choir  mem- 
bers. They  gave  nine  concerts  in  ten  clays  and  traveled  every  night 
but  one.  During  the  trip  each  member  seemed  <to  have  a  desire  to  make 
the  most  favorable  impression  upon  the  people,  both  in  their  singing  and 
in  their  conduct,  which  was  above  criticism.  Through  the  help  of 
President  McCune,  of  the  Los  Angeles  stake,  and  his  associates,  Presi- 
dent McMurrin,  of  the  California  mission,  and  the  missionaries  labor- 
ing under  him,  we  were  received  cordially  and  had  full  houses  wherever 
concerts  were  given.  This  enabled  us  to  return  home,  having  paid  our 
expenses  through  the  receipts  from  these  concerts  and  from  others  given 
at  'home  prior  to  our  departure. 

On  the  way,  and  before  we  entered  the  city  of  Sacramento,  an 
official  of  the  Chamber  of  Commerce  of  that  city  boarded  the  train, 
and,  coming  to  the  car  where  I  was,  he  said,  "Bishop  Smith,  I  have 
come  up  here  because  I  desire  to  talk  to  you  concerning  matters  which 
we  consider  important  and  I  knew  I  could  not  have  much  of  your  time 
when  you  arrive  in  Sacramento.  It  is  my  business  to  look  after  the 
Tourists'  Department  and  the  Colonization  Department  of  the  Sacra- 
mento Chamber  of  Commerce  and  the  development  of  the  Sacramento 
Valley.  After  studying  the  situation  carefully, -we  jhave  decided  to 
request  that  your  Church  give  us  a  stake  organization  in  this  district." 
I  asked  him  whether  or  not  he  was  a  member  of  the  Church,  although  I 
did  not  think  he  was,  for  when  he  boarded  the  train  he  was  smoking  a 
cigar.  He  answered,  "No,  I  am  not  a  member  of  the  Church."  Then 
I  asked,  "What  do  you  know  about  a  stake  organization  ?"  His  answer 
was,  "I  know  that  it  is  impossible  to  get  your  people  to  gather  in  one 
place  in  any  great  numbers  unless  they  have  an  organization  to  keep 
them  at  work  and  supply  their  spiritual  needs,  and  we  want  to  fill  this 
valley  with  Latter-day  Saints. 

"Years  ago,"  he  said,  "settlers  in  this  valley  started  to  get  the  water 
out  upon  the  land.  Among  these  settlers  were  a  few  'Mormon'  families. 
The  first  year  these  people  failed,  and  their  crops  failed,  and  many  of  the 
settlers  moved  away.  The  next  year  they  continued  their  work  and 
planted  their  crops,  but  were  not  successful  in  getting  sufficient  water 
to  save  all  of  them,  and  still  more  of  the  people  moved  away.  The 
'Mormons'  stayed  and  continued  digging  ditches  to  provide  a  means 
of  getting  water  on  to  the  land.  They  worked  with  one  another  and  for 
one  another,  divided  their  substance,  and  helped  one  another  in  every 
way,  that  all  might  succeed.  They  showed  none  of  the  spirit  of  selfish- 
ness commonly  found,  and  were  filled  with  hope  that  they  should  event- 
ually succeed  and  make  prosperous  homes  for  themselves.  The  next 
year  they  succeeded  and  put  water  on  to  the  land,  and  their  ground 
became  productive,  a  garden  spot  in  a  desert ;  and  those  who  had  moved 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


away,  and  others  who  had  come  in  to  look  and  see  what  had  been 
done,'  were  encouraged.  Then  men  with  money,  seeing  what  had  been 
accomplished,  and  having  dreams  of  what  might  be  accomplished, 
came  in  with  their  money,  and  the  result  is  that  the  Sacramento  Valley 
is  today  the  best  watered  valley  in  California." 

I  have  not  verified  that  statement,  but  the  thing  of  interest  to  me 
is  that  this  man  and  many  others  have  discovered  a  principle  that  is  a 
fundamental  doctrine  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints :  That  to  succeed  we  must  cooperate  one  with  another,  we  must 
help  one  another,  we  must  set  aside  all  feeling  of  selfishness  which  is 
found  in  all  the  world  in  this  day,  and  we  must  have  an  interest  in 
our  brother  and  render  assistance  to  him  whenever  it  is  possible  to  do 
so,  whether  that  assistance  be  temporal  or  spiritual ;  and  this  'help  should 
be  rendered  in  the  spirit  of  love  and  good  fellowship,  following  the 
teachings  of  the  Savior.  This  spirit  must  be  manifest  in  great  abund- 
ance before  Zion  can  be  finally  redeemed,  for  Zion  is  to  be  redeemed 
only  when  the  people  keep  the  celestial  law ;  and  this  ,is  a  state  prepar- 
atory to  the  coming  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  to  establish  his  kingdom 
in  the  earth. 

Down  there  in  California  men  whose  only  interest  is  to  make 
money,  and  who  are  seeking  to  bring  settlers  in  upon  their  land,  for  the 
main  purpose  of  bringing"  wealth  to  them  and  their  communities,  see  a 
way  of  capitalizing  this  principle,  a  principle  which  I  believe  many  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  have  not  fully  discovered,  although  it  is  a  dominating 
factor  in  their  success.  In  order  to  succeed,  we  must  have  the  spirit 
of  this  ,work,  and  when  I  say  we  must  have  the  spirit  of  this  work,  I 
mean  the  God-given  power  of  discernment  which  keeps  before  us  the 
vision  of  eternal  life ;  and  unless  we  serve  God  we  cannot  possess  this 
spirit,  and  the  nearer  we  draw  to  him,  the  more  this  spirit  is  felt.  Hav- 
ing discovered  this,  his  servants  find  that  strength  that  comes-  from 
personal  contact  with  one  another  and  through  hearing  the  word.  This 
is,  no  doubt,  one  reason  w'hy  so  many  have  gathered  here  today,  in  spite 
of  the  storm,  to  hear  the  wx>rd  of  the  Lord.  It  is  what  causes  them  to 
stay  where  they  can  serve  God  as  he  has  commanded  them  to  do.  One 
of  the  apostles  of  old  has  stated  in  I  Corinthians  3:13-19: 

"Every  man's  work  shall  be  made  manifest:  for  the  day  shall  declare  it, 
because  it  shall  be  revealed  by  fire ;  and  the  fire  shall  try  every  man's  work  of 
what  sort  it  is. 

"If  any  man's  work  abide  which  he  hath  built  thereupon,  he  shall  receive 
a  reward. 

"If  any  man's  wcrk  shall  be  burned,  he  shall  suffer  loss:  but  he  himself 
shall  be  saved ;  yet  so  as  by  fire. 

"Know  ye  not  that  ye  are  the  temple  of  God,  and  that  the  Spirit  of  God 
dwelleth  in  you? 

"If  any  man  defile  the  temple  of  God,  him  shall  God  destroy ;  for  the  temple 
of  God  is  holy,  which  temple  ye  are. 

"Let  no  man  deceive  himself.  If  any  man  among  you  seemeth  to  be  wise 
in  this  world,,  let  him  become  a  fool,  that  he  may  be  wise. 

"For  the  wisdom  of  this  world  is  foolishness  with  God.  For  it  is  written, 
He  taketh  the  wise  in  their  own  craftiness." 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


45 


We  see  how  those  Latter-day  Saints  in  California  referred  to  were 
tried,  how  their  work  was  revealed,  how  their  success  came  through 
the  spirit  of  cooperation  and  unselfishness,  just  as  the  pioneers  who 
settled  this  valley  performed  their  work  in  unselfishness,  and  whose 
sufferings  and  hardships  were  tempered  with  songs  of  thanksgiving  and 
praise  ,to  their  God,  for  through  their  faith  and  their  works  they  hoped 
to  get  a  reward,  perhaps  not  in  this  life,  but  surely  in  the  life  to  come. 

Man  may  easily  deceive  himself,  and  say  in  his  heart,  "There  is 
no  God."  He  may  see  no  injurious  effects  irorn  contaminating  his 
body  through  mental  debauchery  or  physical  contamination,  and  "Why 
should  God  interfere?"  they  may  ask.  Members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  who  have  received  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  should  have  no  trouble  in  answering  these  questions,  for  they 
believe  their  bodies  to  be  the  temples  of  the  living  God  and  that  his 
Spirit  dwells  within  only  when  that  dwelling  place  is  clean  and  made 
fit  to  house  that  spirit. 

We  have  recorded  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  the  revelation 
known  as  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  It  was  not  given  as  a  commandment 
or  by  constraint,  "but  by  revelation  and  the  word  of  wisdom,  showing 
forth  the  order  and  will  of  God  in  the  temporal  salvation  of  all  Saints 
in  the  last  days — 

"Given  for  a  principle  with  promise,  adapted  to  the  capacity  of  the 
weak  and  the  weakest  of  all  Saints,  who  are  or  can  be  called  Saints." 

Since  this  time,  it  has  been  accepted  as  a  revelation  and  made 
binding  upon  the  Church.  When  first  given,  it  seemed  revolutionary 
in  its  nature,  but  now,  after  ninety-three  years  we  find  leaders  in  health 
movements  and  physical  culturists  advocating  these  principles.  They 
mean  more  to  us  than  to  others,  for  they  look  only  for  physical  strength 
to  enable  them  to  enjoy  life.  We  add  to  that  a  desire  to  make  of  our 
bodies  fit  dwelling  places  for  the  Spirit  of  God  which,  when  possessed, 
brings  joy  unmatched  by  physical  strength  alone.  Time  will  not  permit 
me  to  dwell  at  length  on  the  many  wonderful  promises  made  in  this 
revelation.  I  am,  therefore,  referring  only  to  the  use  of  tobacco  and 
strong  drinks : 

"Behold,  verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  you :  In  consequence  of  evils 
and  designs  which  do  and  will  exist  in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men  in  the  last 
days,  I  have  warned  ycu,  and  forewarn  you,  by  giving  unto  you  this  word, 
of  wisdom  by  revelation — 

"That  inasmuch  as  any  man  drinkcth  wine  or  strong  drink  among  you,  behold 
it  is  not  good,  neither  meet  in  the  sight  of  your  Father,  only  in  assembling 
yourselves  together  to  offer  up  your  sacraments  before  him. 

"And,  behold,  this  should  be  wine,  yea,  pure  wine  of  the  grape  of  the 
vine  of  your  own  make. 

"And,  again,  strong  drinks  are  not  for  the  belly,  but  for  the  washing  of 
your  bodies. 

"And  again,  tobacco  is  not  for  the  body,  neither  for  the  belly,  and  is  not 
good  for  man,  but  is  an  herb  for  bruises  and  all  sick  cattle,  to  be  used  with 
judgment  and  skill." 

It  may  seem  strange,  but  nevertheless  is  a  fact,  that  men  who  use 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


tobacco  or  liquor  soon  lose  the  spirit  of  Church  work.  Let  me  give  you 
an  example  of  what  I  mean:  . 

The  other  day  I  met  a  young  man,  a  member  of  the  Church  who 
has  filled  a  mission  and  who  knows  the  doctrines  of  the  Church,  and 
who  at  one  time  was  active  in  Church  work.  He  had  a  cigar  in  his 
mouth,  and  I  asked,  "Aren't  you  ashamed  of  yourself?"  He  answered, 
"You  'don't  know  how  good  a  cigar  is  after  meals."  And  I  answered, 
"You  and  the  Lord  for  it.  He  says  it  is  not  good,  and  the  fact  that 
it  is  a  filt'hy  habit  and  what  the  Lord  has  said,  would  keep  me  from  it, 
even  though  it  did  taste  good."  He  answered,  "This  doesn't  hurt  any- 
body. It  is  jail  nonsense  to  think  tobacco  hurts  a  person.  I  am  just 
as  strong  physically  today  as  I  have  ever  been."  I  asked,  "Are  you, 
mentally?"  He  answered,  "It  has  not  hurt  my  mental  condition  a  bit. 
I  can  carry  on  my  business  as  well  as  ever  I  could."  "How  has  it 
affected  you  spiritually?"  "Well,"  he  answered,  "I  don't  think  it  has 
hurt  me  spiritually.  I  still  have  a  testimony  of  the  gospel."  I  asked  him 
if  he'  attended  his  meetings.  "No,"  he  answered.  "Are  you  active  in 
your  Priesthood  quorum?"  He  said  he  was  not.  "Do  you  pay  your 
tithing?"  "Well,  I  am  not  a  full  tithepayer ;  I  pay  a  little  once  in  a 
while."  I  said,  "Now,  honestly,  do  you  ever  do  anything  in  the  Church 
at  all?"  "No,"  he  answered,  "I  must  admit  that  l'do  not."  "And  why 
don't  you?"  After  a  moment's  pause  he  answered  "I  don't  know."  I 
then  quoted  for  him  a  part  of  the  passage  quoted  above,  and  as  he 
looked  at  me  he  said,  "Well,  I  don't  know.  I  have  never  looked  at  it 
in  that  way  before." 

My  mission  calls  me,  as  one  of  the  presidency  of  the  Aaronic 
priesthood,  to  study  the  conditions  of  the  young  men  in  the  Church.  I 
have  seen  them  grow  into  manhood,  become  active  in  Church  work ;  and 
I  have  seen  some  drift  away  and  become  inactive.  In  every  case  in- 
vestigated— and  I  have  studied  many — the  cause  of  their  indifference 
has  been  traced  to  the  use  of  tobacco;  and  I  am  satisfied  that. the  use 
of  tobacco  or  liquor  will  drive  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  from  a  person 
and  leave  that'  person  to  grope  in  darkness.  To  partake  of  and  enjoy 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  the  blessings  promised,  we  must  keep  the 
commandments  and  remember  that  every  man's  work  shall  be  made 
manifest,  for  the  day  shall  declare  it  because  it  shall  be  revealed  by  fire. 

I  don't  know  that  the  Lord  meant  that  he  would  destroy  the  body  in 
the  literal  sense  of  destruction,  although  there  is  no  sound  argument 
that  can  be  used  to  show  that  liquor  and  tobacco  do  not  have  an  inju- 
rious effect  upon  the  body.  They  are  injurious  not  only  to  the  physical 
body,  but  to  the  spiritual  body  as  well.  I  have  yet  to  find  one  person 
who  has  had  the  Priesthood  of  God  conferred  upon  him  who  indulges 
in  the  use  of  tobacco  and  who  insists  upon  continuing  in  this  habit  who 
has  retained  the  Spirit  of  God  and  continued  active  in  the  Church.  This 
is  evidence  to  me  that  it  destroys  a  man's  usefulness  and  spirituality. 

I  suggest'  that  we  give  some  little  thought  to  this,  that  we  may  see 
for  ourselves,  not  for  the  purpose  of  ridiculing  our  brethren  who  are 
so  weak  that  they  give  themselves  over  to  these  filthy  habits,  "but  to 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


47 


encourage  them  and  to  strengthen  ourselves,  in  order  that  we  might 
see  the  dangers  lurking  in  our  midst  and  keep  ourselves  free  from  these 
dangers.  Let  us  cultivate  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord ;  let  us  cultivate  that 
spirit  of  cooperation  and  love  which  the  world  has  discovered  exists 
in  our  midst,  and  let  us  go  to  those  who  are  engaging  in  these  per- 
nicious practices  and  encourage  them  to  clean  themselves  up,  in  order 
that  they  too  may  be  fed  spiritually  and  may  partajce  of  the  blessings 
of  God  which  he  has  promised.  Do  we  truly  believe  that  we  are  the 
children  of  God,  created  in  his  image,  and  that  we  are  bought  with  a 
price,  the  price  of  the  blood  of  our  Redeemer  shed  for  us?  If  so,  let  us 
glorify  God  in  our  bodies  and  in  our  spirits,  which  are  God's.  We 
should  always  be  in  possession  of  the  Spirit  of  God  and  should  give 
heed  to  its  whisperings,  for  without  that  Spirit,  we  are  told,  we  cannot 
know  the  things  of  God.  His  Only  Begotten  Son  suffered  and  was 
crucified  that  we,  as  his  children,  might  enter  again  into  his  presence 
and  partake  of  his  joys.  He  has  provided  different  degrees  of  glory 
and  has  given  us  to  understand  that  we  are  to  inherit  the  degree  we 
earn,  through  our  faithfulness  upon  this  earth,  which  we  are  told  is 
a  preparatory  state.  Being  a  kind  and  loving  Father,  he  has  given  every 
opportunity  for  us  to  know  of  the  things  that  we  should  know  to  prepare 
us  for  the  glory  in  which  he  dwells. 

One  of  the  ancient  apostles  has  said: 

"But  if  the  Spirit  of  him  that  raised  up  Jesus  from  the  dead  dwell  in 
you,  he  that  raised  up  Christ  from  the  dead  shall  also  quicken  your  mortal 
bodies  by  his  Spirit  that  dwelleth  in  you. 

"Therefore,  brethren,  we  are  debtors,  not  to  the  flesh,  to  live  after  the  flesh. 

"Fop  if  ye  live  after  the  flesh,  ye  shall  die:  but  if  ye  through  the  Spirit 
do  mortify  the  deeds  of  the  body,  ye  shall  live. 

"For  as  many  as  are  led  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  they  are  the  sons  of  God." 

May  we  conduct  our  lives  that  we  shall  never  grieve  that  Spirit 
or  cause  it  to  depart  from  us,  but  may  we  possess  it  always  to  guide  us 
and  help  us  in  our  efforts  to  serve  God,  is  my  prayer  which  I  ask  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  M.  HOWARD  RANDALL 

President  of  the  Morgan  Stake 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  must  confess  that  this  is  a  surprise  to 
me  to  be  asked  to  say  anything  at  this  conference.  I  have  en- 
joyed the  exercises  and  the  remarks  made  thus  far  this  morning. 
My  heart  is  in  the  work.  I  know  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
is  true.  I  know  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  was  organized  and  instituted  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  and  that  he  was  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  in  doing 
this  work.  I  am  proud  to  be  numbered  as  a  Latter-day  Saint,  and 
to  be  with  you  to  bear  testimony  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  have  had  a  good  many  thoughts  while  sitting  here  this  morn- 
ing, and  I  feel  that  if  every  one  of  us  responded  to  the  calls  made 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


upon  us,  carried  the  responsibilities  placed  upon  us  as  members 
of  this  Church,  that  this  work  would  be  more  successful.  I  fear 
that  sometimes  there  are  men  and  women  upon  whom  we  place 
responsibilities  who,  to  a  certain  extent,  shun  those  responsibilities, 
and  feel  that  they  are  not  so  important  as  thought  by  those  who  placed 
the  responsibilities  upon  them.  I  often  wonder  why  it  is  that  men  and 
women  who  have  accepted  the  gospel,  and  have  a  testimony  burning 
in  their  souls  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  shun  these  responsibilities. 
I  often  wonder  why  it  is  that  they  do  not  sense  the  responsibilities 
placed  upon  their  shoulders. 

Not  long  ago  I  listened  to  the  testimony  of  a  young  man  who 
had  been  on  a  mission.  What  Brother  Smith  said  brought  it  to 
my  mind.  He  and  another  elder  had  filled  missions  and  were  given 
honorable  releases.  Just  previous  to  their  departure,  a  family 
of  Saints  gave  a  little  banquet  in  their  honor.  Just  as  they  closed 
the  banquet,  they  passed  tea  around,  and  asked  them  if  they  would 
have  a  drink  of  tea.  The  elder  that  was  with  this  young  man  said, 
"I  have  received  my  release ;  it  is  all  right  for  me  to  drink  tea."' 
He  drank  five  cups !  After  it  was  over,  the  lady  took  the  other) 
elder  aside  and  made  this  remark,  "I  have  always  understood  that 
ten  cups  of  tea  would  kill  a  man.  He  drank  five  cups.  I  wish  I  had 
given  him  the  .other  five."  The  elder  taken-  aside  said,  "I  wished 
I  could  have  given  him  the  other  five  cups  myself.  To  think  I 
have  labored  two  and  a  half  years  preaching  the  gospel  and  then 
the  elder  I  had  labored  with  and  associated  with  do  the  thing  Ij 
had  been  teaching  people  not  to  do — the  very  thing  he  had  been 
teaching  them  not  to  do!"  The  result  was  that  he  left,  disgraced; 
people  were  disgusted  with  him. 

At  this  same  gathering  I  heard  of  a  missionary  who  had 
labored  two  and  a  half  years  in  England  and  had  been  successful  in 
converting  a  young  lady  and  her  mother  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  'They  came  to  the  valleys  of  the  mountains,  expecting  to 
see  the  Saints  living  the  gospel,  but  she  told  me,  "To  my  surprise, 
as  I  walked  down  the  sidewalk  in  Salt  Lake  City,  I  met  the  very 
man  who  had  taught  me  the  gospel  in  England  walking  down  the 
street  with  a  cigarette  in  his  mouth."  And  she  wrote  to  this 
elder,  "I  am  disgusted  with  'Mormonism,'  with  the  elders  who 
taught  me  the  gospel  in  England,  to  think  that,  after  I  have  come 
to  Zion,  they  live  as  they  do  live.  I  looked  to  see  men  of  God,: 
living  the  things  they  had  taught  me ;  but  on  the  contrary,  I  see 
some  of  these  young  men  are  not  living  as  they  ought  to  live.'" 
They  bring  disgrace  upon  the  cause  of  God,  and  upon  the  great: 
majority  who  live  their  religion.  I  would  not  have  you  think,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  for  one  minute,  that  I  would  justify  the 
woman  in  leaving  the  Church,  because  of  this.  But  I  do  believe 
that  men  and  women  who  accept  membership  and  positions  in  the 
Church  should  live  so  that  when  they  come  in  contact  with  other 
people,  it  may  be  seen  that  they  are  living  their  religion. 

I  often  wonder  if  I  am  going  through  life  failing  to  sound  the 


ELDER  M.  HOWARD  RANDALL 


49 


warning  voice  that  I  should  sound.  When  I  meet  my  Maker  on 
the  other  side,  if  the  question  is  asked,  "Did  you  do  your  full  duty 
as  a  servant  of  God  and  as  a  Latter-day  Saint  in  teaching  the  men  and 
women  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  and  Joseph  Smith  a  prophet  of  God,  and 
in  performing  every  obligation  that  God  asked  you  to  perform,  or  did 
you  evade  the  responsibilities  he  placed  upon  you?"  I  often  wonder 
what  my  answer  will  be. 

One  time,  when  I  was  stake  superintendent  of  Sunday  Schools, 
a  woman  came  to  me  and  said,  "My  son  has  more  confidence  in 
you  than  in  any  other  man  that  I  know  of  in  the  stake."  I  won-, 
dered  then,  as  I  have  wondered  since,  if  my  life  was  of  such  a 
nature  as  to  affect  this  young  man  growing  in  this  Church,  growing 
in  knowledge  and  information,  or  taking  the  downward  road  that 
leads  to  destruction ;  and  whether,  if  my  life  affected  him  in  a 
way  that  caused  him  not  to  live  as  he  should,  I  would  be  held 
responsible  in  any  degree  for  his  action.  The  thought  came  back 
to  me  that  if  my  life  affected  men  and  women  so  that  they  did 
not  live  right,  I  would  be  held  responsible  in  the  end  for  some  of 
those  conditions.  I  believe  it  is  my  duty,  my  responsibility,  to  live 
the  life  of  a  Latter-day  Saint  as  the  Lord  intended  I  should,  that  T 
shall  listen  to  the  whisperings  of  the  Spirit  of  God  and  obey  them, 
that  I  may  not  be  found  in  by  and  forbidden  paths,  or  in  company 
that  the  Lord  does  not  desire  a  servant  of  his  to  be  in.  I  should 
be  exemplary  and  carry  with  me  the  dignity  of  my  position,  the 
sense  of  responsibility  that  God  has  placed  upon  me  and  live  and 
magnify  the  same  before  him.  I  hope  and  pray  that  when  I  meet 
on  the  other  side  with  my  children  or  associates  that  none  can  say 
that  I  did  not  do  as  I  should,  that  I  did  not  teach  them  by  the  proper 
example. 

I  remember  a  number  of  years  ago  visiting  a  family  in  our 
stake.  Previous  to  visiting  them,  the  lady  of  the  house  came  and 
asked  if  we  would  not  please  talk  to  her  son  about  his  drinking 
beer.  I  remember  going  into  the  home.  The  elder  with  me  talked 
to  the  young  man  and  said  it  was  not  right  to  get  drunk,  as  he 
was  doing,  that  it  was  breaking  his  mother's  heart.  The  young 
man  turned  around  to  the  elder  and  said,  "I  want  you  to  under- 
stand that  my  mother  is  responsible  for  the  life  I  have  lived.  When 
I  was  a  boy  twelve  or  fifteen  years  of  age.  my  mother  set  me 
down  to  the  table  with  crackers  and  beer.  It  created  a  desire 
for  beer,  and  I  cannot  leave  it  alone."  Could  you  have  seen  that 
mother,  as  she  sat  by  the  old  stove,  the  fire  burning  bright  and 
showing  the  tears  running  down  her  cheeks,  it  would  have  grieved 
your  heart. 

I  do  not  know  whether  the  son  told  the  truth.  There  may  have 
been  some  truth  in  it.  I  felt  that  a  young  man  should  have  had 
respect  enough  for  his  mother  not  to  have  made  the  statement 
in  her  presence,  at  least.  On  the  other  hand,  I  have  wondered 
many  times  since,  "Were  the  words  of  that  young  man  true?  Did 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


his  mother's,  life  affect  his  life  in  such  a  manner  that  he  did  not  care 
for  her  teachings? 

I  want  to  tell  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  these  are  serious 
reflections.  The  souls  of  the  children  of  God  are  precious  in  his 
sight.  It  should  be  the  aim  and  desire  of  every  father  and  mother 
to  teach  fthe  gospel  in  a  way  that  will  impress  men  and  women. 
I  believe  with  all  my  soul  that  it  is  true.  The  young  men  and  wom- 
en of  the  Church  today  are  growing,  and  to  a  great  extent,  their 
destiny  is  in  our  hands  and  power  to  place  them  in  an  armor  that 
will  lead  |them  upward  in  the  cause  of  truth,  that  they  may  bei 
virtuous  and  live  as  God  intended,  or  downward  against  his  will. 

We  spend  thousands  of  dollars  to  convert  men  and  women 
who  live  in  foreign  lands  and  in  America,  who  are  not  worth  any 
more,  or  as  much,  perhaps,  as  the  men  and  women  who  are  in  our 
midst,  who  are  our  neighbors  day  by  day  and  who  are  starving  for 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Perhaps  some  of  you  may  say,  "They 
have  plenty  of  opportunity  to  go  to  the  organizations,,  where  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  taught.''  It  is  true,  but  the  responsibility 
that  God  has  placed  upon  us  carries  with  it  enough  importance  to 
teach  wherever  we  are,  that  we  should  bear  the  testimony  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  in  such  a  manner  that  it  will  convince  men 
that  it  is  of  God. 

A  little  piece  of  poetry  I  sometimes  read  as  I  visit  the  Sunday 
Schools  of  our  stake,  called  "The  Sunday  School  Automobile,"  ap- 
plies to  every  organization  in  the  Church : 

All  rules  cf  success  considered,  the  most  essential  element  is  "Getting 
started."    Therefore,  use  a  self-starter  on  your  Sunday  School  automobile. 
Use  the  brakes  of  patience  and  self-control. 
Put  large  quantities  of  hope  in  the  grease  cups. 

Use  a  perseverance  brand  of  gascline  as  motive  power,  instead  of  hot  air. 
Have  the  timer  properly  set,  EARLY. 

Have  the  carburetor  properly  adjusted,  admitting  a  mixture  of  equal  parts 
of  earnestness  and  will  power. 

Use  the  primer  of  enthusiasm. 

Best  results  can  be  obtained  by  using  the  four  cylinders  of  knowledge — 

The  knowledge  of  self, 

The  knowledge  of  company, 

The  knowledge  of  work, 

The  knowledge  of  children  (men). 
Advance  the  sparker  of  ambition  for  more  speed. 

Open  wide  the  throttle  of  faith  in  yourself,  in  your  work,  and  in  your 
calling,  to  secure  more  power. 
Use  the  polish  of  courtesy. 

Use  tires  of  stick-to-it-iveness,  on  non-discouragement  rims. 
Use  the  Golden  Rule  steering  wheel 

Put  on  search  lights  of  character,  and  with  the  foregoing  equipment,  the 
Sunday  School  automobile  will  take  every  hill  of  disappointment  and  discourage, 
ment  on  high  gear. 

I  believe,  brethren  and  sisters,  if  these  things  were  put  into  the 
life  of  every  man  and  woman  who  accepts  responsibility  in  this 
Church,  if  we  would  sense  that  responsibility,  if  we  would  first 


ELDER  M.  HOWARD  RANDALL 


51 


take  an  inventory  of  our  own  lives  and  gather  out  the  weak  points 
and  improve  upon  them,  that  we  would  be  successful  as  individuals. 
It  is  said  the  chain  is  no  stronger  than  its  weakest  link,  and  it  is  so 
with  men  and  women  who  accept  positions  in  this  Church.  I  have 
delighted  in  working  in  the  organizations  of  the  Church.  I  consider 
it  an  honor  to  be  permitted  to  work  in  the  organizations  for  the 
growth,  development,  and  benefit  of  the  human  family.  My  desire 
is  that  we  may  all  sense  this  responsibility. 

My  testimony  is  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a 
prophet  of  the  living  God,  that  he  gave  his  life  as  a  testimony  that 
his  doctrine  and  teachings  are  of  God.  I  recall  his  words  when 
he  left  Nauvoo  to  go  to  Carthage  jail.  When  he  looked  upon 
Nauvoo  he  said,  "I  have  a  conscience  void  of  offense  toward  God 
and  toward  all  men.  I  shall  die  innocent.  It  shall  yet  be  said 
of  me,  'He  was  murdered  in  cold  blood'." 

My  grandfather  heard  a  message  delivered  to  the  governor, 
saying,  "They  intend  to  kill  the  prophet,"  and  he  said,  "If  yotu 
know  anything  about  it,  keep  still."  My  grandfather  said  it  al- 
ways seemed  peculiar  to  him  that  a  man  who  held  a  responsible 
position,  and  who  was,  no  doubt,  in  a  position  to  prevent  certain 
conditions,  should  say,  "If  you  know  anything  about  it,  keep  still." 
My  testimony  to  you  is  that  the  present  leaders  of  this  Church  are 
men  inspired  of  God  and  doing  their  utmost  for  the  advancement  of 
those  who  are  members  of  this  Church. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us  with  his  Spirit,  protect 
us  from  harm,  and  extend  to  us  and  create  within  our  minds  a: 
greater  desire  to  love  and  honor  the  authorities  and  to  honor  our* 
call,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

A  duet,  "Come  unto  me,"  was  sung  by  Earl  Martin  and  Ronald 

Salt. 

ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

The  next  speaker  will  be  President  Soren  M.  Nielsen  of  the 
North  Sanpete  stake.  Brother  Nielsen  was  formerly  stake  super- 
intendent of  Mutuals,  and  a  military  leader.  He  is  now  proving 
himself  to  be  a  real  captain  as  a  president  of  the  North  Sanpete 
stake. 

ELDER  SOREN  M.  NIELSEN 

President  of  the  North  Sanpete  Stake 

I  appreciate  the  kind  words  of  our  presiding  authority  here  this 
morning.  I  have  learned  to  love  President  Hart  through  my  acquaint- 
ance and  my  associations  with  him.  He  was  present  at  the  time  I  was 
set  apart  as  president  of  the  North  Sanpete  stake  of  Zion  and  had 
something  to  do,  I  am  sure,  with  my  being  chosen. 

Last  evening  after  arriving  in  the  city,  I  was  dining  with  a 
person  from  home  who  said  he  intended  to  leave  the  city  some  time 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


today  for  home.  I  urged  upon  him  to  attend  some  of  the  sessions  of 
the  conference  hefore  he  returned.  When  he  informed  me  that  time 
would  hardly  permit,  I  rather  insisted  that  he  attend  at  least  the 
Opening  session  of  the  conference,  this  morning  in  the  Tabernacle, 
as  that,  I  thought,  was  the  most  important  session  of  the  conference, 
the  most  interesting,  and  he  would  feel  well  paid  for  spending  that 
much  time  in  the  city.  This  morning,  when  the  president  of  the 
Church  read  my  name  as  one  to  speak  here,  it  came  as  a  thunder- 
holt  from  the  sky,  and  I  have  been  wondering  since  if  that  is  my 
penalty  for  singling  out  one  of  the  sessions  of  the  conference  as  be- 
ing better  than  another.  I  am  sure,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  whether 
it  is  the  opening  session  or  the  closing  session,  it  matters  little  to  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  who  are  present  to  participate  in  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
and  to  be  fed  the  bread  of  life.  I  am  sure  the  message  delivered  in 
one  session  is  as  important  as  that  in  another,  provided  our  hearts 
are  in  tune  with  the  mission  and  purpose  of  this  Church.  I  am  con- 
vinced of  that  this  morning,  for  I  have  thoroughly  enjoyed  myself 
here,  and  I  pray  that  while  I  occupy  this  position,  the  same  Spirit 
may  actuate  my  thoughts  that  has  prompted  those  who  have  spoken 
before  me,  and  that  has  influenced  the  rendition  of  the  songs  and  the 
music  listened  to  this  morning. 

I  was  impressed  with  the  testimony  of  Bishop  Smith  in  his  con- 
versation with  the  non-member  of  our  Church  in  California.  We  see 
on  every  hand  where  men  are  trying  to  capitalize  the  organization  of 
this  Church  for  the  purpose  of  making  money.  I  remember  reading 
in  the  public  press  of  a  certain  organization  that- had  offered  to  con- 
tribute to  this  Church  a  site  for  a  temple  in  one  of  the  California 
cities.  Their  sole  motive,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  was  to  bring  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  there  in  a  body,  sell  them  real  estate,  perhaps,  or  in 
some  other  way  enrich  their  pocketbooks. 

I  want  to  contrast  that  with  the  motive  of  a  man  with  whom  I 
held  a  conversation  just  recently,  a  man  whom  I  have  known  all  my 
life.  We  have  grown  up,  virtually,  together,  at  least  since  boyhood — 
he  a  member  of  the  Presbyterian  Church,  and  I  affiliated  with  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  He  said  to  me,  "Brother  Nielsen,  I  have  come 
to  the  conclusion  that  if  there  is  a  true  Church  of  Christ  on  the  face 
of  the  earth  today,  it  is  not  the  Presbyterian  church,  but  that  it  is  the 
'Mormon'  Church.  I  have  learned  to  appreciate  you  people.  I  have 
marveled  at  the  accomplishments  of  the  membership  of  your  Church. 
I  have  learned  to  love  and  admire  you  and  others  with  whom  I  have 
mingled  all  my  life.  I  have  learned  that  there  is  nothing  uplifting 
or  that  will  tend  to  uplift  the  souls  of  men  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
are  not  seeking.  There  is  nothing  that  will  tend  to  destroy  the  char- 
acter of  individuals  but  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  always  ready  to 
condemn  it.  They  are  constantly  striving  for  the  development  of  the 
talents  of  their  children ;  they  are  anxious  to  see  them  grow,  and  they 
make  liberal  provisions  for  their  education  and  their  advancement  in 


ELDER  SOREN  M.  NIELSEN 


53 


life.  The  social  and  community  life  of  no  other  people  can  be  com- 
pared with  theirs.  When  I  compare  a  community  of  Latter-day  Saints 
with  one  made  up  of  other  organizations,  I  note  that  when  men  and 
women  belong  to  lodges  and  secret  organizations  there  is  a  tendency 
to  pull  apart,  to  segregate  themselves  into  classes,  each  one  destroy- 
ing, or  at  least  tending  to  destroy,  the  efforts  of  the  other.  I  see  no 
good  in  lodges  or  fraternal  organizations.  I  see  definite  good  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  They  are  banded  to- 
gether working  for  a  common  cause — and  that  always  characterized  by 
the  highest  ideals." 

I  said  to  him,  "I  have  noted  you  in  recent  years  especially,  that 
you  have  been  more  friendly  to  us,  and  I  have  predicted  to  others 
that  you  some  day  would  become  a  member  of  this  Church ;  I  trust 
that  I  shall  not  be  disappointed." 

And  he  said  to  me:  "I  am  ready  now,  if  I  only  dared,  if  I  only 
had  the  courage,  to  enter  the  waters  of  baptism,  but  I  know  what  will 
happen  to  me;  I  shall  be  ostracized  by  my  family  and  friends,  those 
who  have  been  near  to  me  all  the  days  of  my  life,  and  I  have  not 
the  moral  courage  to  break  away  from  those  associations  to  become 
one  of  your  people.  I  know  the  criticism  that  would  be  heaped  upon 
me.  .  And  yet  I  am  a  Latter-day  Saint.  I  am  willing  to  confess  that 
I  have  accepted  of  the  gospel,  that  I  believe  it ;  and  even  now,  if  I  had 
the  least  assurance  that  through  my  membership  in  the  Church  I  could 
enjoy  a  small  portion  of  the  growth  and  development  that  I  have  noted 
in  others,  in  your  Church,  even  though  I  am  pretty  well  along  in  life, 
if  I  could  be  able  through  affiliation  with  your  Church  to  learn  to 
stand  before  an  audience,  to  express  myself  in  public  (he  is  a  tal- 
ented man,  by  the  way,  but  (timid),  if  I  could  acquire  that  knowledge 
and  ability,  even  now  I  believe  I  would  become  a  member  of  your 
Church,  in  spite  of  the  criticism  that  I  know  would  come  to  me." 

I  promised  him  that  if  he  would  come  into  the  Church,  accept  the 
Priesthood,  lend  himself  to  its  influences  and  teachings,  he  would  live 
to  see  the  day  that  he  would  be  an  active  member  of  this  Church  and 
that  his  voice  would  yet  be  heard  publicly  in  the  defense  of  its  truth. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  want  to  express  to  you  my  appreciation 
for  my  membership  in  this  Church,  for  the  fact  that  I  see,  as  this 
brother  has  discovered,  that  there  is  no  place  in  the  world  I  would 
rather  be  than  here.  I  thank  my  Father  in  heaven  for  the  fact  that 
the  missionaries  of  this  Church  have  invaded  foreign  lands  and 
preached  the  gospel  to  my  family  and  made  it  possible  for  me  to  come 
here  and  enjoy  the  associations  and  the  blessings  of  membership  in 
this  Church.  I  have  heard  many  of,  the  testimonies  borne  in  this 
building ;  I  have  been  here  at  Mutual  Improvement  conferences,  where 
our  testimony  meeting  is  usually  held,  and  I  have  heard  some  inspir- 
ing testimonies  borne.  Usually  they  begin  by  saying,  "I  have  been 
taught  the  principles  of  the  gospel  by  my  parents.  I  am  thankful  that 
I  was  born  in  a  Latter-day  Saint  home,  etc.    I  am  thankful  that  I  have 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


been  able  to  go  on  a  mission  and  receive  tbere  a  testimony  of  the  gos- 
pel." 

I  want  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  being  born  in 
the  Church  is  not  necessary.  I  was  not  born  of  "Mormon"  parentage, 
though  my  mother  is  a  member  of  the  Church.  I  was  not  raised  in  a 
Latter-day  Saint  home,  strictly  speaking.  I  have  never  been  on  a 
mission.  But  through  my  affiliation  with  the  auxiliary  organizations 
and  the  Priesthood  quorums  of  this  Church,  I  have  acquired  a  testi- 
mony of  the  divinity  of  this  gospel.  I  have  learned  to  know  that  this 
is  the  Church  of  Christ,  that  it  was  reestablished  under  the  inspiration 
of  our  Father  in  heaven  and  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  and  that  those  who  adhere  to  its  teachings,  make  the  ideals 
of  the  Church  their  ideals,  will  enjoy  greater  blessings  than  any  other 
people  on  the  face  of  the  earth ;  also,  that  we  can  become  a  happier 
people,  and  more  fully  comprehend  the  purposes  of  life  than  any  one 
else,  through  the  study  of  the  gospel.  I  pray,  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
all  of  us  may  sense  our  responsibility  as  Latter-day  Saints. 

In  conclusion,  may  I  say  that  I  am  confident  that  the  influence 
brought  to  bear  upon  the  individual  to  whom  I  referred  has  come 
from  the  example  set  by  members  of  his  community,  not  by  their  ser- 
mons. I  believe  that  the  family  life  of  the  people  of  that  ward,  the 
community  life,  the  social  activities,  in  other  words,  the  conduct  of 
those  people  as  Latter-day  Saints,  have  converted  him  to  the  principles 
of  "Mormonism,"  and  not  the  sermons  they  have  preached  on  the  Sab- 
bath day.  May  we  so  order  our  lives,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  those 
who  are  watching  us,  and  observing  our  actions,  may  come  into  the 
fold  of  this  Church  through  the  example  we  set,  I  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  quartette,  composed  of  the  winners  of  the  M.  I.  A.  Salt  Lake 
District  contest,  Earl  Martin,  Ronald  Salt,  Leonard  Strong,  and  Harold 
Keddington,  sang,  "Prayer  Perfect." 

ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON 

Assistant  Church  Historian 

In  just  three  years  and  a  half  from  now  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  will  be  one  hundred  years  old.  It  has  been,  and  is, 
a  most  remarkable  organization.  There  never  has  been  another  one 
like  it  upon  the  face  of  the  earth.  We  do  not  have  to  compare  the 
Church  to  which  we  belong  with  any  of  the  so-called  Christian  churches 
of  today,  so  far  as  members  and  progress  are  concerned,  but  we  can 
-consistently  compare  it  with  other  dispensations  that  the  Lord  has 
established  upon  the  earth  for  the  salvation  of  mankind ; -and  particularly 
do  we  take  pleasure  in  comparing  it  with  the  Church  which  was  organ- 
ized more  than  eighteen  hundred  years  ago  by  the  Savior  himself  and 
his  apostles.    We  can  also  draw  comparison  between  the  Church  to 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


55 


which  we  belong  and  the  Church  organized  among  the  Nephites  about 
the  same  time  that  the  Church  was  organized  in  what  we  call  the  old 
world.  But  the  history  of  the  Nephite  Church  is  very  brief.  And  the 
same  might  be  said  of  the  history  of  the  original  Church  organized  in 
Palestine,  or  in  Asia. 

There  are  some  comparisons  that  I  sometimes  think  of.  Jesus 
was  thirty  years  old  when  he  commenced  to  preach.  Up  to  that  time 
we  have  but  very  little  knowledge  of  what  he  did.  Joseph  Smith  was 
twenty-five  years  old  when  he,  as  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the 
Lord,  organized  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  in  1830. 
After  one  hundred  years  had  passed  away  from  the  time  that  Christ 
commenced  his  ministry  we  find  (by  referring  to  the  historians  of  that 
day,  such  as  Matthew,  Mark,  Luke  and  John,  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles 
and  the  writings  of  the  historian  Eusebius,  who  wrote  the  history  of  the 
first  325  years  of  the  so-called  Christian  church),  that  there  was 
scarcely  anything  left  of  the  original  church.  It  is  a  strange  thing  that 
such  should  be  the  case,  but  it  was  undoubtedly  in  the  providence  of 
the  Lord.  Before  the  first  century  of  that  dispensation  had  passed 
away  all  the  apostles  had  been  killed  except  John ;  other  leaders  of  the 
church  had  also  gone  to  their  rest,  most  of  them  falling  as  martyrs  to 
truth,  for  that  was  a  time  of  martyrdom.  John,  who  did  not  taste 
death,  as  we  understand  it,  was  the  only  apostle  left.  So,  at  the  end  of 
one  hundred  years  from  the  time  that  Christ  commenced  his  ministry 
in  (Galilee  the  great  majority  of  the  people  who  belonged  to  the 
original  church  had  passed  away,  either  by  natural  death  or  had 
fallen  as  martyrs,  or  gone  into  apostasy.  The  falling  away  had  become 
so  universal  during  the  latter  part  of  the  first  century  of  the  Christian 
era  that  there  was  scarcely  anyone,  to  speak  of  left  professing  the  true 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  when  the  century  ended.  False  doctrines  had 
been  introduced  into  the  church,  and  the  falling  ,away,  which  had  been 
predicted  by  Paul  and  others,  had  indeed  taken  place. 

It  is  different  with  the  dispensation  to  which  we  belong.  When 
this  Church  shall  be  one  hundred  years  old,  the  historians  will  be 
able  to  record  that  it  never  before  was  any  stronger  or  its  member- 
ship more  numerous.  We  can  easily  judge  the  condition  of  the 
Church  three  years  and  a  half  hence.  At  the  present  time  we  can 
say  that  the  Church  never  had  so  many  organized  stakes  of  Zion 
as  it  has  now,  and  never  before  so  many  bishop's  wards,  nor  so 
many  missionary  fields  at  one  time ;  that  is,  if  we  make  exception 
of  a  few  temporary  missions  established  in  the  early  days  of  the 
Church;  but,  taking  it  all  throughout,  the  Church  to  which  we  be- 
long never  had  a  more  prosperous  existence  than  it  has  at  the 
present  time,  when  we  refer  to  the  thousands  of  noble  men  and' 
women  in  it.  We  may  regret  that  there  are  some  weak  members, 
who  are  not  as  true  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  they  might  be, 
but  there  is  a  sufficient  number  of  faithful  men  and  women,  both 
young  and  old,  to  warrant  my  statement ;  the  majority  of  the  mem- 
bers of  this  Church  would  be  an  honor  to  any  community.  That 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


really  should  prove  to  all  that  we  have  borne  good  fruit,  and  our 
actions  are  now  being  copied  by  many  of  the  people  of  the  world 
who  have  figured  with  organizations  that  have  been  less  successful 
than  ours  has  been.  \  .     .  • 

It  is  one  thing  to  make  history,  another  thing  to  write  it.  If 
it  had  not  been  for  the  writers  I  have  mentioned,  who  belonged  to 
the  original  Church,  what  would  the  doings  of  Christ  mean  to 
us?  We  would  have  known  next  to  nothing  of  his  activities.  The 
doctrines  he  taught  would  have  been  hid  in  mystery  and  conjec- 
tures. For  instance,  if  Matthew,  or  some  other  historian,  had  not 
recorded  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  we  would  not  have  had  that 
splendid  exposition  of  gospel  truths.  And  if  somebody  had  not 
recorded  the  many  other  beautiful  sayings  _  of  Christ  and  his 
apostles,  what  would  we  have  known  of  the  ministry  of  Christ  and 
of  his  apostles?  We  would  merely  have,  had  some  vague  ideas 
handed  down  by  tradition  that  would  lead  astray  more  than  lead 
aright ;  but  because  these  things  that  are  written,  we  have  at  least 
some  knowledge  of  these  earlier  dispensations. 

In  our  day,  the  first  thing  the  Lord  did  after  the  Church  to 
which  we  belong  was  organized  with  six  members,  in  the  little 
village  of  Fayette,  Seneca  county,  New  York,  was  to  command  that 
a  Church  recorder  should  be  appointed,  a  man  who  should  write 
down  what  was  taking  place.  That  man  was  Oliver  Cowdery.  He 
had  previously  assisted  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  in  translating 
the  Book  of  Mormon ;  and  now,  after  that  sacred  record  had  been 
completed  and  printed,  his  labor  with  the  pen  was  continued 
through  his  appointment  as  the  first  Church  recorder.  Since  that 
time  we  have  had  recorders  and  historians  in  the  Church  who  have 
been  more  or  less  faithful,  and  more  or  less  efficient  in  doing  their 
work.  Soon  Oliver  Cowdery  was  appointed  to  other  positions  in 
the  Church,  and  another  man  was  called  to  be  Church  recorder. 
But  as  that  man  was  not  very  faithful  in  the  discharge  of  his  duties 
the  early  history  of  the  Church  is  not  as  complete  as  we  would'  like 
it  to  be.  There  are  certain  very  important  dates  lacking  because 
John  Whitmer  did  not  do  his  duty.  Nevertheless,  we  have  suf- 
ficient to  show  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
is  a  most  complete  and  successful  organization,  and  we  also  re- 
joice in  the  promise  made  that  it  shall  never  come  to  an  end.  Other 
dispensations  have  ceased  to  exist,  but  this  one  to  which  we  belong 
will  continue,  and  the  Church  shall  finally  grow  into  the  Kingdom 
of  Heaven,  over  which  Christ  shall  reign  as  King  of  kings,  and  Lord 
of  lords. 

It  requires  much  effort  and  labor  to  keep  track  of  the  thou- 
sands and  tens  of  thousands  of  missionaries  who  have  gone  out 
from  the  headquarters  of  the  Church  to  preach  the  gospel.  We 
are,  at  the  present  time,  engaged  in  making  a  list  of  them.  In  a 
few  weeks  we  expect  to  complete  the  same,  and  we  will  then  be 
able  to  state  approximately  how  many  elders,  and  how  many  mis- 
sionary sisters,  have  been  sent  out  from  the  headquarters  of  the 


ELDER  ANDREW  JEN  SON 


57 


Church  to  preach  the  gospel  in  different  lands  and  climes.  We 
will  also  have  a  good  idea  of  how  many  people  have  been  baptized 
since  the  Church  was  organized,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that 
many  important  Church  records  have  been  destroyed  or  lost.  We 
will  also  know  approximately  how  many  branches  of  the  Church 
have  been  organized  in  the  different  countries  of  the  world,  where 
our  missionaries  have  labored.  You  will,  perhaps,  be  surprised 
to  learn  that  they  are  numbered  by  thousands,  and  you  will  be 
astonished  to  Know  that  at  one  time  there  were  nearly  a  thousand 
branches  of  the  Church  in  Great  Britain  alone.  We  will  surely 
have  something  interesting  to  tell  the  Latter-day  Saints  when  the 
Church  is  one  hundred  years  old. 

It  has  already  taken  much  time  and  money,  and  also  neces- 
sitated much  travel,  to  gather  material  and  record  the  events  of 
the  history  of  the  Church  from  the  beginning  to  the  close  of  the 
nineteenth  century.  Years  ago  we  found,  at  the  Historian's  office, 
that  we  could  not  locate  ourselves  within  the  walls  of  that  little 
building  which  stood  across  the  street  from  where  the  large  Church 
building  now  stands,  and  there  write  histories  of  the  stakes  of 
Zion  and  of  the  different  missions  of  the  Church.  We  found  it  was 
necessary  to  go  abroad,  travel  extensively  and  gather  material  for 
history  in  many  lands  and  climes.  Your  humble  servant  has  had  the 
pleasure,  if  I  may  call  it  such,  to  be  a  globe  trotter.  Some  people 
have  thought  that  I  have  traveled  more  than  necessary,  but  I  know 
better  than  that,  and  am  convinced  that  I  have  not  traveled  nearly 
as  much  as  I  should  have  done  in  order  to  become  a  good  and' 
reliable  historian.  Yet  I  have  traveled  about  490,000  miles  in  the 
interest  of  the  Church,  and  I  have  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the 
work  accomplished  could  not  have  been  done  in  any  other  way  than 
by  going  into  the  f'eld  for  material.  We  have  had  Church  recorders 
and  historians  all  the  time  since  the  organization  of  the  Church, 
and  they  have  found  it  possible  to  record  facts  as  they  have  been 
reported  to  headquarters  from  time  to  time ;  but  the  recorders  could 
never  . make  a  complete  . history  of  this  Church  unless  they  go  abroad, 
visit  with  the  elders  and  saints  in  different  parts  of  the  world, 
peruse  records  and  become  acquainted  geographically  with  the 
stakes  of  Zion  and  the  countries  of  the  world.  Then,  in  connection 
with  the  reports  that  are  sent  in  from  year  to  year,  they  can  write 
history,  and  it  may  be  said  that  these  reports  are  now  better  than 
they  have  been  before.  A  complete  history  of  this  Church,  in  my 
opinion,  can  never  be  written  unless  that  mode  of  procedure  is 
followed. 

We  do  not  know  what  will  take  place  in  the  near  future ;  only 
this  we  believe,  that  great  events  are  close  at  hand.  But  we  do 
sincerely  hope  and  pray  for  a  general  awakening  in  the  interest  of 
Church  history.  Sometimes,  when  I  visit  some  of  the  stakes  of 
Zion  in  the  interest  of  history  I  am  looked  upon  as  a  sort  of  Rip 
van  Winkle,  or  some  ancient  of  days,  who  has  been  asleep  for 
twenty  years,  or  more,  and  it  seems  as  if  some  people  are  actually 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


annoyed  by  it.  I  do  not  say  this  as  a  slnr  upon  the  Saints  generally. 
This  lethargy  can  perhaps  be  traced  to  the  fact  that  for  years  only 
very  little  attention  has  been  paid  to  Church  history  in  a  public 
way.  We  preach  about  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  Imagine  what  the 
consequence  would  be,  if  our  brethren  from  time  to  time  did  not 
open  their  mouths  to  draw  attention  to  that  particular  word  of  God. 
Even,  after  mentioning  it  and  speaking  about  it  repeatedly,  such 
conditions  exist  as  those  we  have  had  explained  to  us  in  this  meet- 
ing by  the  brethren  who  have  preceded  me.  Now,  inasmuch  as 
the  importance  of  history  has  not  been  mentioned  much  of  late 
years,  the  people  have  become  careless  about  it,  and  quite  fre- 
quently we  hear  somebody  say,  "We  have  enough  to  do  with  the 
present  and  looking  out  for  the  future;  let  the  past  alone."  It  may 
be  true  that  the  present  is  more  important  to  us  than  the  past ;  and 
yet  I  contend  that  without  knowing  something  about  the  past,  we 
do  not  know  where  we  come  in  as  elders  of  the  Church  laboring  in 
the  vineyard  both  at  home  and  abroad.  It  is  necessary  for  us  to 
know  how  wre  fit  in  as  we  continue  the  labors,  commenced  by) 
Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  and  continued  by  Brigham  Young  and 
his  successors.  In  Great  Britain  we  need  to  know  how  the  present 
missionaries  fit  in  with  the  labors  in  earlier  days  by  Heber  C. 
Kimball,  Orson  Hyde,  Brigham  Young,  Orson  Pratt,  Wilford 
Woodruff,  and  many  others.  We  from  Scandinavia  need  to  know 
how  our  present  missionaries  fit  in  with  the  labors  commenced  by 
Erastus  Snow  and  his  fellow-laborers  seventy-six  years  ago.  With- 
out some  knowledge  in  regard  to  the  past,  we  scarcely  know  where 
we  are  at.  We  know  we  belong  to  a  great  organization,  but  not 
always  what  our  particular  duties  are  in  building  upon  the  founda- 
tion that  the  heroes  and  heroines  of  this  Church  laid  many  years 
ago. 

My  message  as  one  of  the  historians  of  this  Church  is  this :  We 
want  cooperation ;  we  need  a  general  awakening  in  regard  to  the 
importance  of  record-keeping.  We  must  become  better  posted  in 
regard  to  the  history  of  this  Church,  the  most  important  organiza- 
tion of  its  kind  that  ever  existed  upon  the  face  of  the  earth.  We 
cannot  sit  still  and  quietly  at  the  Historian's  office  and  steer  the 
great  ship  of  Zion  historically,  we  need  the  cooperation  of  the  local 
authorities  and  the  people  generally.  We  want  the  stake  clerks 
and  ward  clerks,  and  clerks  of  the  priesthood  and  auxiliary  organ- 
izations to  stand  by  us.  And  when  we  send  out,  or  go  out,  for  in- 
formation we  want  to  examine  and  peruse  the  records  that  are  in 
existence  for  historical  material.  We  raise  our  voice  against  the 
destruction  or  the  losing  of  records,  and  draw  attention  to  the  folly 
of  looking  upon  record-books  in  the  same  light  that  a  school  boy 
looks  upon  his  copy  book — when  it  is  written  full  it  is  of  no  further 
use.  The  records  of  a  ward  or  quorum  are  entirely  different  from 
that.  A  blank  book  is  worth  nothing  to  the  historian,  but  being 
filled  with  records  it  is,  in  many  instances,  worth  its  weight  in  gold. 
We  would,  therefore,  earnestly  insist  that  the  brethren  and  sisters 


ELDER  ANDREW  JEN  SON 


59 


in  charge  of  records,  or  even  private  journals,  do  not  destroy  them 
or  lose  them.  The  time  will  surely  come  when  they  will  be  wanted. 
Probably  much  that  is  in  them  may  be  mere  chaff,  that  never  will  be 
worth  copying-,  but  there  will  always  be  something  found  in  these 
records  that  will  be  of  use  tokthe  historian.  I  cannot  remember  that 
I  ever  in  my  life  have  perul&d  a  record  book  of  any  kind — and 
I  have  perused  thousands  of  them — but  what  I  have  found  some- 
thing in  it  of  historical  importance. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  wake  up  to  a  realization  of  the 
fact,  that  there  is  something  of  vital  importance  for  us  to  know  in 
the  past,  as  well  as  in  the  present  and  the  future.  I  speak  as  one 
who  has  devoted  almost  his  entire  life  in  the  historical  field,  and 
who  for  many  years  has  endeavored  to  draw  attention  to  the  fact 
that  the  writing  of  history  is  the  next  thing  to  making  it.  M'ay 
God  bless  us  and  enable  us  to  be  faithful  and  diligent  in  discharg- 
ing the  duties  pertaining  to  our  respective  callings  in  the  service  of 
God,  I  sincerely  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  think  you  will  agree  with  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we 
have  had  a  musical  and  spiritual  feast  here  today,  and  now  I  am 
anxious  that  during  the  few  remaining  minutes  I  may  be  able  to  continue 
the  feast  that  has  thus  far  been  served  to  us. 

Among  the  minor  prophecies  given  to  Joseph  Smith  was  the 
prediction  of  the  angel  Moroni,  that  Joseph's  name  should  be  known 
for  good  and  for  evil  among  every  nation,  tongue,  and  people;  that  is, 
that  good  and  evil  should  be  spoken  of  him  among  all  people.  "For 
many  years  the  great  preponderance  of  the  things  uttered  and  written  in 
fulfilment  of  this  prophecy  was  against  him,  but  now  the  tide  is  turn- 
ing. Mr.  Cody,  better  known  as  ''Buffalo  Bill,"  in  writing  the  preface 
to  his  book  entitled,  The  Great  Salt  Lake  Trail,  called  attention  to  the 
fact  that  the  libraries  were  full  of  books  written  about  the  "Mormon" 
people,  "generally,"  he  said,  "against  the  people,  and  usually  with  an 
inexcusable  ability  at  exaggeration."  There  is  this  to  be  noted,  that 
wherever  there  has  been  one  to  raise  up  his  voice  against  the  prophet 
or  his  people,  there  has  been  one  equally  strong  in  his  defense.  The 
prophet  gave  the  instance  of  Mr.  Reid,  the  lawyer  who  defended  him 
in  one  of  the  fifty-five  trumped-up  cases  that  were  brought  against 
Joseph.  Mr.  Reid  said  that  the  thought  came  to  him  that  he  must 
go  and  defend  the'  Lord's  anointed.  Said  he,  "I  did  not  know  what  it 
meant,  but  thought  I  must  go  and  clear  the  Lord's  anointed." 

There  is  this  peculiarity,  that  even  those  who  have  attempted  to  be 
spiteful  toward  the  prophet  and  his  followers  have  often  unwittingly 
contributed  to  their  good.  That  was  true  in  one  of  the  early  books 
written  against  the  prophet  by  Pomeroy  Tucker  of  Palmyra,  in  his 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


book  entitled,  The  Origin  of  Mormonism.  He  gives  us  the  picture 
of  Martin  Harris,  one  of  the  most  prosperous  farmers  in  the  neigh- 
borhood, being  willing  to  sacrifice  his  fertile,  eighty-acre  farm  on  the 
north  side  of  Palmyra,  and  his  wife  and  family,  for  the  testimony  of 
the  gospel.  He  also  tells  us  of  writing  to  Sidney  Rigdon  for  help  and 
encouragement  in  the  production  of  this  anti-"Mormon"  book,  at  a 
time  when  it  would  have  appealed  most  strongly  to  Sidney  Rigdon,  for 
at  that  time  he  had  returned  to  Pennsylvania  a  disappointed  man  in  his 
vain  ambition  to  lead  this  Church.  But  he  got  no  aid  or  comfort  from 
Sidney  Rigdon. 

In  a  later  book,  by  Gregg,  bearing  the  euphonious  title,  The 
Prophet  of  Palmyra,  an  affidavit  is  presented  from  the  ex-Governor 
of  Utah,  Mr.  Harding,  in  which  he  gives  his  testimony  of  Joseph  and 
Oliver,  walking  through  the  woods  every  morning  a  considerable  dis- 
tance  with  a  small  "take,"  as  the  printer  calls  it,  of  manuscript  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon  for  the  publication  of  that  volume  by  Mr.  Grandin  of 
Palmyra  ;  and  so  sacredly  did  they  esteem  that  manuscript  that  they 
would  not  permit  it  to  be  in  the  care  of  the  printer  or  in  his  office  over 
night,  but  walked  a  long  distance  through  the  woods  to  have  returned  to 
them  the  portion  of  the  manuscript  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  which  they 
had  delivered  in  the  morning. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  the  views  of  those  who  attempted  to  be 
friendly  and  who  express  opinions  as  to  the  perpetuity  of  "Mormon- 
ism." Here  is  Mr.  Gregg,  seriously  declaring  at  the  conclusion  of  his 
book  in  which  he  purported  to  write  in  all  fairness,  his  conclusion  that 
before  the  end  of  the  twentieth  century  the  story  of  the  Golden  Bible 
would  be  but  a  memory — quite  a  different  conclusion  from  that  penned 
by  the  writer  of  a  book  entitled,  A  Tramp  With  a  Poet  Through  the 
Rockies,  to  the  effect  that  "Mormonism"  "has  a  great  future  in  America 
— it  is  not  a  dying  cult." 

Quite  recently  we  have  had  some  very  warm  commendation  by 
different  writers.  Many  of  you  have  read  in  the  Saturday  Evening 
Post  that  friendly  article  in  which  it  was  said:^ 

"It  is  a  common  practice  to  speak  with  admiration  of  the  business 
organization  of  large  corporations,  and  there  is  little  doubt  that  the  executives 
whose  powerful  intellects  are.  responsible  for  the  economic  and  efficient 
operation  cf  the  countless  departments  and  divisions  of  a  great  steel  company 
or  great  oil  company  are  entitled  to  a  large  amount  of  respect  and  esteem. 
There  is  little  doubt  that  there  is  no  other  organization  in  the  world  that  obtains 
from  its  employees  the  loyalty  and  labor  and  the  results  that  the  'Mormon' 
Church  so  bountifully  receives  from  its  five  hundred  thousand  unpaid  mem- 
bers. This  statement  may  possibly  be  laughed  off.  but  only  after  a  spell 
of  laughing  so  protracted  and  so  forced  as  seriously  to  damage  the  most 
powerful  laughing  apparatus  in  existence." 

So,  if  there  is  any  one  who  wishes  to  laugh  off  that  thoughtful  state- 
ment in  the  way  suggested,  they  are  welcome  to  do  so. 

In  the  September  number  of  the  Pacific  Netvs,  Mr.  C.  I.  B.  Moore, 
the  Vice-President  of  the  Pacific  Mutual  Life  Insurance  Company  of 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


61 


California,  who •  traveled  through  Southern  Utah,  wrote  this  concern- 
ing our  people : 

"I  want  to  say  right  here  that  my  visit  to  Utah  gave  me  a  very  favorable 
impression  of  the  'Mormon'  people.  We  saw  many  evidences  of  th.ir  thrift 
and  intelligence  and  found  those  we  conversed  with  most  agreeable  'and 
hospitable  people,  and  in  many  instances  educated  and  well  informed.  As 
good  citizens,  I  doubt  whether  Uncle  Sam  possesses  any  more  favorable  type." 

A  Utah  man  who  travels  the  United  States  over  in  a  civk  position 
told  me  yesterday  of  some  kindly  words  given  to  him  recently  at 
Atlantic  City  by  the  multi-millionaire,  C.  Z.  Mitchell,  of  New  York, 
sometimes  called  the  dean  of  electricians,  or  the  dean  of  the  electrical 
field.  He  met  this  man  from  Utah  at  the  close  of  a  meeting  of  the 
electrical  convention  and  expressed  very  friendly  regard  for  any  one 
from  Utah,  and  then  explained  to  representatives  from  other  states  who 
stood  near,  "I  have  a  fine  feeling  toward  your  state ;"  and  to  another, 
"There  is  much  that  can  be  said  in  favor  of  your  state ;"  and  to  a  third; 
"I  could  say  a  good  deal  in  praise  of  the  state  you  are  from,  but  I  want 
to  say  that  Utah,  in  my  opinion,  -stands  without  a  peer.  I  am  thinking 
of  her  people,  and  I  say  that  for  sobriety,  sincerity,  industry  and  honesty 
of  purpose,  and  the  cardinal  virtues  generally,  I  feel  that  the  Utah 
people  have  no  equal."  -  And  then  he  went  on  to  refer  to  his  experience 
in  meeting  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  and  his  counselors  and  said  that 
whatever  they  said  to  him  they  said  in  great  sincerity,  and  that  he  was 
much  affected  by  jthe  simplicity  and  the  democratic  attitude  of  the  great 
president  in  assisting  him  on  with  his  overcoat  at  the  close  of  the 
interview. 

Recently  I  was  told  of  this  incident  that  occurred  in  ,the  Michigan 
University  about  thirty  years  ago  when  there  were  a  number  of  Utah 
boys  there.  Some  of  the  evangelical  preachers  of  Ann  Arbor  sought 
to  have  these  boys  expelled  from  school  on  the  ground  that  they  were 
simply  missionaries  of  the  Church  and  not  there  for  the  purposes  of 
scholarship.  The  dean  called  one  of  the  Utah  students  before  him  and 
asked  him  if  the  accusations  were  true,  and  he  was  assured  that  they 
were  not  true,  but  that  the  Utah  boys  were  there  as  legitimate  students 
for  purposes  of  study  only.  And  then  my  friend  said  to  me :  "I  was 
surprised  to  hear  Dean  Hutchinson,  dean  of  the  Law  Department  of 
Michigan  University,  say  that  both  morally  and  intellectually  the  students 
from  Utah  stood  higher  than  the  students  from  any  other  state  in  the 
Union,  and  that  he  would  strongly  oppose  any  effort  to  expel  them 
from  the  institution." . 

Mr.  Frankau,  a  writer  for  the  Sunday  Pictorial,  London,  gave  us 
some  interesting  words  as  the  result  of  his  visit  here.  I  think  our 
young  sisters  may  be  interested  in  the  compliment  he  pays  them.  He 
is  answering,  of  course,  the  old  theory  that  existed  in  his  country  that 
the  missionaries  were  in  England  for  the  purpose  of  winning  young 
women  to  bring  them  to  Utah  for  questionable  purposes.  The  writer 
disposes  of  the  question  in  this  language  : 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"And  if  anybody  after  reading  this  article,  still  imagines  that  'Mormon' 
missionaries  come  to  Great  Britain  for  the  purpose  of  decoying  British 
spinsters  of  certain  or  uncertain  ages  into  secret  harems,  I  can  only  advise 
him  to  take  a  little  walk  down  State  street  or  South  Temple  avenue  of 
Salt  Lake  City,  when  the  high  moon  is  riding  molten  above  the  elms  and 
poplars  which  Brigham  Young  planted,  and  observe  the  many  Utah  maidens 
whose  bright  eyes  regard  the  stranger  sidewise  from  under  isilken  lashes 
as  he  passes  by;  for  they  are  very,  very  alluring,  these  Utah  maidens, 
st>  alluring  indeed  that  'Mormon'  polygamy,  if  it  ever  comes  to  be  restarted 
will  most  certainly  begin,  like  'Mormon'  charity,  at  home." 

In  the  future  there  will  be  scarcely  any  excuse  for  people  to  be  so 
uninformed  as  to  slander  this  people,  because  they  can  go  to  such  a 
book  as  that  recently  issued  by  Macmillan  &  Company,  entitled,  The 
Fruits  of  \Mormonism,  and  can  see  from  United  States  census  figures 
how  this  people  stand  on  all  the  vital  questions — of  the  high  birth-rate 
and  the  low  death-rate,  the  high  marriage-rate  and  the  low  divorce- 
rate,  the  low  insanity  percentage,  the  high  charitable-rate,  the  high 
educational  standing,  and  from  all  those  things  that  are  known  as  vital 
statistics,  determine  from  impartial  government  statistics  the  true  stand- 
ing of  this  people. 

Time  will  not  permit  to  continue  along  this  line,  but  it  is  for  us 
to  be  prepared  to  receive  praise  as  well  as  censure,  and  we  may  ap- 
propriate praise  without  immodesty,  knowing  that  it  is  said  concerning 
the  people  collectively  and  not  individually — a  very  telling  distinction, 
which  the  Lord  made  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  speaking  of 
this  Church,  as  recorded  in  the  first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants.   May  we  always  merit  the  good  spoken  of  us.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "And  the  glory  of  the  Lord,"  by  Handel. 
The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Quayle  Cannon,  of  the 
Bountiful  First  ward. 


SECOND  OVERFLOW'  MEETING 

The  second  overflow  meeting  of  the  conference  was  held  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  Sunday,  October  3,  1926. 

Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young,  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  presided. 

The  singing  was  furnished  by  the  LeGrande  ward  choir  of  Salt 
Lake  City;  Elder  Charles  C.  Martin,  conducting;  Elder  Frank  W. 
Asper,  organist. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Redeemer  of  Israel,"  after 
which  the  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Song  of  the  Redeemed." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  David  R.  Lyon,  of  the  Ensign  ward, 
Salt  Lake  City. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "By  Babylon's  Wave." 


ELDER  WILLIAM  I  ONES 


63 


ELDER  WILLIAM  JONES 

President  of  the  Moapa  Stake 

If  I  can  but  control  my  fluttering  heart,  I  shall  be  pleased,  rrrv 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  respond  for  a  few  moments  to  this  call  made  on 
me  by  the  President  of  the  Church.  In  doing  so,  I  desire  that  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord  shall  be  with  me  to  direct  what  I  shall  say,  for  1 
realize  that  of  myself  I  am  not  capable  of  saying  anything  that  will  be 
profitable  to  you  who  have  assembled  this  afternoon  to  be  instructed 
upon  the  word  of  the  Lord.  Therefore  I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  shall  be  with  each  of  us,  that  our  time  here  will  not  have  been 
spent  in  vain. 

I  was  thrilled,  beyond  my  words  to  express,  with  the  meeting  of 
this  morning,  by  the  spirit  that  was  manifest,  by  the  things  that  were 
uttered  by  the  President  of  the  Church,  and  by  President  Ivins,  and 
also  with  the  things  we  listened  to  this  morning  in  the  officers'  meeting 
of  the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association,  and  I  am 
grateful  that  I  have  had  this  opportunity  of  assembling  and  listening 
to  these  valuable  thoughts.  I  hope  I  shall  get  fresh  inspiration  from 
them,  and  from  the  meetings  to  follow  in  this  conference,  so  that,  as 
I  return  to  the  stake  over  which  I  preside,  I  may  be  able  to  carry  back 
to  the  people  the  spirit  of  this  great  gathering  and  the  valuable  things 
imparted,  and  to  be  imparted,  by  the  servants  of  the  Lord  called  upon  to 
speak  to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  thank  the  Lord,  above  all  else,  that  I  have  a  testimony  concerning 
this  great  latter-day  work.  I  hope  and  trust  that  this  testimony  the 
Lord  has  given  to  me  will  be  an  abiding  one,  that  during  the  rest  of 
my  life  I  shall  be  able  to  retain  it  in  my  soul  and  make  it  a  part  of  my 
very  being.  As  I  enjoy  this  blessing,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire 
that  this  same  blessing  may  be  upon  you  and  upon  every  Latter-day 
Saint  who  has  gone  down  into  the  waters  of  baptism,  and  had  hands 
laid  upon  his  head  for  the  reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  who  has 
been  given  a  testimony  concerning  this  great  latter-day  .work.  I  hope 
and  pray  that  each  one  who  has  entered  into  covenants  with  his  Maker 
may  have  the  Holy  Ghost  to  abide  with  them. 

I  was  impressed  very  much  this  morning  in  listening  tO'  what  was 
said,  and  the  words  of  the  Savior  came  to  me  and  have  been  upon  m) 
mind  since  then.  If  you  will  bear  with  me  for  a  moment,  I  would 
like  to  read  some  of  his  words,  as  recorded  in  the  14th  chapter  of 
St.  John,  beginning  at  the  14th  verse : 

"If  ye  shall  ask  any  thing  in  my  name,  I  will  do  it. 
"If  ye  love  me,  keep  my  commandments. 

"And  I  will  pray  the  Father,  and  he  shall  give  you  another  Comforter,  that 
he  may  abide  with  you  forever ; 

"Even  the  Spirit  of  truth;  whom  the  world  cannot  receive,  because  it  seeth 
him  not,  neither  knoweth  him:  but  ye  know  him;  for  he  dwelleth  with  you,  and 
shall  be  in  you. 

"I  will  not  leave  you  comfortless :    I  will  come  to  you. 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Yet  a  little  while,  and  the  world  seeth  me  no  more;  but  ye  see  me: 
because  I  live,  ye  shall  live  also.    *    *  * 

"lie  that  hath  my  commandments,  and  keepeth  them,  he  it  is  that  loveth  me : 
and  he  that  loveth  me  shall  be  loved  of  my  Father,  and  I  will  love  him,  and 
will  manifest  myself  to  him." 

The  very  fact  that  we  have  gathered  ourselves  together  in  this  confer- 
ence is  an  indication  to  me  that  we  love  the  Lord  and  that  we  are  exemp- 
lifying in  our  lives  the  words  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world  wherein  he 
says,  "If  ye  love  me,  keep  my  commandments."  ,  The  people  in  this 
conference  have  gathered  from  all  parts  of  the  Church,  some  of  them 
coming  hundreds  of  miles,  paying  their  own  expenses  on  the  railroads 
and  in  the  hotels,  and  all  because  of  their  love  for  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world  and  the  work  that  he  has  established  in  the  dispensation  in  which 
we  live.  We  are  sending  missionaries  into  the  nations,  and  to  every 
part  of  the  known  world,  with  the  message  of  the  restored  gospel,  and 
they  go  out,  as  you  are.  aware,  bearing  their  own  expenses,  meeting  the 
scoffs  and  the  scorns  of  the  people  of  the  world  and  many  of  them 
enduring  the  hardships  because  of  the  love  they  have  for  the  gospel 
which  has  been  made  a  part  of  their  lives.  Where  else  can  you  find 
such  fove  manifest  in  all  the  world  as  is  shown  by  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
willing"  upon  every  occasion  (it  matters  not  what  the  sacrifice  might 
be)  to  go  where  they  are  sent,  to'  bear  this  message  of  glad  tidings  of 
great  joy  to  people  who  do  not  know  as  we  know,  that  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world  liveth? 

I  rejoice  in  the  fact  that  we  have  identified  ourselves  with  an 
organization  that  has  for  its  object  the  love  of  humanity.  Members  of 
this  great  organization  realize  the  responsibility  of  carrying  this  great 
message  to  the  nations,  regardless  of  cost,  regardless  of  their  time  and 
means,  and  even  the  sacrifice  of  their  own  lifes,  if  it  becomes  necessary. 
It  is  because  of  this  love  that  our  parents  and  our  grandparents  accepted 
the  gospel  in  their  native  lands,  and  emigrated  from  the  various  parts 
of  the  world  to  this  intermountain  country,  the  place  that  the  Lord 
spoke  of  through  his  servants  as  the  dwelling  place  of  latter-day  Israel. 

I  thank  God  that  I  was  born  of  parents  who  had  the  love  of  God 
in  their  hearts,  that  when  the  gospel  came  to  them  they  accepted  it  in 
the  circumstances  that  it  found  them.  They  were  willing  to  make 
sacrifice,  willing  to  leave  all  that  they  had  and  journey  westward  to 
this  land  surrounded  by  these  lofty  peaks  that  we  see  on  every  hand. 
Many  are  the  trials  and  hardships  that  our  grandparents  endured.  My 
grandparents  on  my  mother's  side  accepted  the  gospel  in  Sweden. 
They  suffered  much  persecution  prior  to  and  during  their  journey  here. 
They  had  but  very  little  means  to  migrate  to  this  western  land.  They 
had  to  stop  upon  various  occasions  and  earn  money,  that  they  might 
continue  their  journey,  and  upon  one  occasion,  when  they  were  earning 
money  in  order  that  they  might  proceed  upon  their  journey,  it  was  neces- 
sary that  they  leave  some  of  their  children  with  friends.  The  friends  with 
whom  they  left  the  children  became  attached  to  them,  and  when  they  had 


ELDER  WILLIAM  JONES 


65 


earned  sufficient  money  to  take  them  on  a  little  farther,  they  went  to 
gather  their  children.    Some  of  the  people  were  unwilling  to  give  them 
up,  and  it  was  necessary  for  them  to  go  into  court  in  order  to  get  them. 
They  did  so,  and  the  court  gave  them  their  children,  but  after  the  court 
had  decided  in  their  favor  and  they  went  on  their  way,  the  people  that 
were  after  some  of  their  children  waylaid  them  upon  the  road  and  took 
from  them  one  boy,  and  from  that  day  until  the  day  of  their  death,  thev 
never  had  the  privilege  of  again  beholding  the  face  of  that  son.  That 
is  just  one  instance,  my  dear  friends,  of  the  many  trials  and  hardships 
that  they  had  to  endure  because  of  the  love  in  their  souls  of  the  gospel. 
It  enabled  them  to  journey  thousands  of  miles  to  this  western  country 
and  establish  their  children  here.    Upon  their  foundation  we  can  build, 
in  the  enjoyment  of  the  blessings  of  the  Lord.    I  rejoice  with  you  that 
we  are  surrounded  with  the  comforts  that  the  Lord  has  blessed  us  with, 
that  we  have  plenty  to  subsist  upon,  to  make  ourselves  comfortable  and 
happy,  and  that,  above  all  else,  we  still  retain  in  our  hearts  that  same 
love  manifest  by  our  fathers  and  mothers  who  accepted  the  gospel  in 
the  land  of  their  birth.    This  knowledge  and  this  love  came  to  them 
through  earnest  prayer  and  through  seeking  after  the  word  of  the  Lord.  r 
They  were  honest  in  heart,  they  desired  to  serve  God  and  keep  his 
commandments,  and  when  the  servants  of  the  Lord  found  them,  they 
recognized  the  voice  of  the  true  shepherd  and  embraced  the  truth, 
but  it  was  because  of  earnest  prayer  and  desire  upon  their  part  to  know 
the  will  of  the  Lord,  and  to  keep  his  commandments.    The  Lord  has 
told  us  in  the  scripture  that  I  have  read  to  you  that  he  will  manifest 
himself  to  us.    I  bear  witness  to  you  that  the  Lord  does  manifest  him- 
self to  the  Latter-day  Saints.    He  may  not  do  it  by  personal  contact 
in  each  individual  case,  but,  through  the  promptings  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  he  manifests  himself  to  the  Latter-day   Saints   from  time 
to  time  as  needed,  that  they  may  be  kept  in  the  path  of  truth 
and  righteousness.    I  know  beyond  any  doubt  that  if  we  study  the 
Spirit  of  truth,  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  put  ourselves  in  condition  to  detect 
its  promptings,  that  it  will  continue  to  manifest  itself  to  us.    But  I 
want  to  say  to  you  that  it  requires  study.    We  must  conduct  ourselves  ' 
in  a  way  and  manner  that  when  the  Lord  speaks  to  us  we  may  recognize 
his  voice  and  carry  out  the  instructions  given  to  us  as  individuals.  The 
Prophet  Moroni,  you  know,  gives  the  keynote,  as  recorded  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  Moroni  10.   The  Lord  says,  speaking  through  Moroni : 

"Behold,  I  would  exhort  you  that  when  ye  shall  read  these  things,  if  it  be 
wisdom  in  God  that  ye  should  read  them,  that  ye  would  remember  how  merciful 
the  Lord  hath  been  unto  the  children  of  men,  frcm  the  creation  of  Adam  even 
down  until  the  time  that  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  and  ponder  it  in  your  hearts. 

"And  when  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye  would 
ask  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things  are  net  true : 
and  if  ye  shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  having  faith  in  Christ, 
he  wilf  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

I  bear  record  to  you  that  our  fathers  and  mothers,  when  the  gospel 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


came  to  them,  asked,  as  Moroni  here  gives  us  to  understand,  in  His 
name,  and  when  they  asked,  they  received  knowledge  concerning  the 
doctrines,  as  to  whether  ttoey  were  of  men  or  of  God.  ■  The  injunction 
given  by  the  Savior,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  is  that  you  ask  in  his 
name  and  you  shall'  know  whether  the  doctrine  is  of  man  or  whether 
they  come  from  our  heavenly  Father. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us  as  individuals,  as  members  of 
this  great  organization  and  as  elders  of  Israel,  that  each  one  shall  per- 
form5 his  part  well,  that  we  shall  realize  the  responsibilities  we  owe 
one  to  another,  and  especially  the  responsibility  that  we  owe  to  our 
heavenly  Father  in  bearing  our  part,  in  helping  to  preach  the  gospel 
and  do  the  work  at  home  and  abroad,  for  the  salvation  of  the  living  as 
well  as  flie  dead.  I  bear  record  that  there  is  no  joy,  no  pleasure,  no 
happiness  to  be  enjoyed  in  all  the  world,  outside  of  the  service  of  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world.  It  matters  not  how  much  money  men  may  have 
to  spend  in  getting  happiness  in  this  world,  there  is  no  real  joy  outside  of 
his  service.  I  bear  you  this  as  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
in  all  humility,  and  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JUNIUS  F.  WELLS 

Assistant  Church  Historian 

It  is  an  unexpected  pleasure  accorded  me  to  be  sent  over  from  the 
Tabernacle  to  speak  before  this  congregation,  taking  the  place  of  some- 
one else  who  was  expected  to  come.  I  shall  not  detain  you  for  more 
than  a  few  minutes ;  but,  while  I  am  before  you,  I  desire  to  bear  my 
testimony :  the  testimony  that  we  are  endeavoring  to  establish  in  the 
hearts  of  the  young  people  of  Zion.  The  slogan  of  the  Mutual  Im- 
provement Associations  for  the  current  year,  runs  somewhat  like  this, 
"We  stand  for  a  testimony  of  the  divine  mission  of  Joseph  Smith." 
We  cannot  be  effective  missionaries,  promulgating  the  doctrines  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  unless  we  have  a 
testimony  of  the  divine  calling  of  Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet.  We 
cannot  have  a  testimony  of  his  divine  calling  unless  we  have  also  a 
testimony  of  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world, 
the  Redeemer  of  mankind. 

The  arguments  which  establish  faith  in  the  divinity  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior  apply  particularly  to  the  establishment  of  faith  in  the  divine 
calling  of  Joseph  Smith ;  for  Joseph  Smith  was  raised  up  of  God,  and 
he  received  his  commission  through  the  personal  ministry  of  the  Father 
and  the  Son  to  bear  witness  that  they  live  and  are  interested  in  the 
affairs  of  men.  He  had  nothing  to  give  the  world  except  what  they 
commanded  him.  His  visions,  visitations  of  angels  and  revelations  were 
all  directed  by,  and  in  the  name  of,  the  Lord  to  give  to  mankind  anew 
the  doctrines  which  Christ  taught  in  the  meridian  of  time  with  the 
ordinances  and  principles,  organizations  and  governments  necessary 


ELDER  JUNIUS  F.  WELLS 


67 


in  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times  to  the  establishment  of  the 
kingdom  of  God  on  earth;  never  to  be  taken  from  the  earth,  never  to 
be  given  to  another  people ;  but  to  remain  here  triumphant  over  every 
obstacle  and  foe,  over  all  other  governments  and  institutions  of  men. 
Associated  thus  as  the  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  Christ  is  with  the 
testimony  of  the  divine  mission  of  Joseph  Smith,  how  invaluable,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  to  us.  What  distinction  a  testimony  of  the 
truth  of  Joseph's  mission  gives  us,  and  what  joy,  in  going  about  in 
the  midst  of  our  fellow  creatures  upon  the  face  of  the  earth,  even  among 
those  professing  Christianity,  to  say  nothing  of  those  of  the  heathen 
world ! 

We  are  called  upon,  because  of  the  testimony  that  we  do  receive 
concerning  Joseph  Smith's  mission,  to  be  instructors,  to  be  leaders. 
We  cannot  be  otherwise.  I  will  illustrate  it.  Take_  our  young  men 
called  to  go  as  missionaries  to  the  various  nations  of  the  earth.  Usually 
the  injunction  put  upon  them,  in  the  blessings  they  receive  when  they 
are  set  apart,  is  to  get  the  spirit  of  their  mission — the  spirit  of  their 
mission!  I  remember  President  Brigham  Young  said  to  me  when  he 
laid  his  hands  upon  my  head,  "Get  the  spirit  of  your  mission."  My 
father's  only  instruction  was,  "Get  the  spirit  of  your  mission ;  do  not 
know  too  much,  but  believe  all  you  can."  I  did  not  know  at  the  time 
what  that  sentence  meant,  but  I  was  not  long  in  my  field  of  labor 
before  I  discovered  it.  There  came  upon  me  the  spirit  of  my  mission. 
Now,  what  was  that?  It  was  the  exercise  of  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  conferred  upon  me  when  I  was  a  child.  It  was  the  exercise  of 
the  authority  to  minister  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  given  me  when 
I  was  ordained  an  elder.  I  found  within  three  weeks  after  engaging 
in  my  mission  that  I  was  veritably,  in  effectiveness  I  will  say  mildly, 
an  authorized  representative  of  the  Savior  of  this  world ;  having  the 
right  to  speak  in  his  name,  having  the  right  to  call  upon  my  fellow 
creatures  to  repent ;  promising  them  that  if  they  would  do  so  they  would 
receive  forgiveness  of  their  sins ;  showing  them  the  way  and  proving  it. 

Does  not  all  that  constitute  leadership  among  men?  What  would 
not  the  ministers  of  the  world  give  for  so  potent  a  power,  so  actual 
an  authority?  It  cannot  come  and  it  has  not  come  and  does  not,  in 
this  world,  in  this  time,  in  this  generation,  in  this  age  of  the  world, 
except  through  the  ministry  of  Joseph  Smith,  whom  God  called,  and 
to  whom  the  Father  appeared,  to  whom  the  Son  spoke  and  delivered 
that  message  of  life  and  salvation  to  all  the  children  of  God  that  dwell 
upon  the  face  of  the  whole  earth.  Joseph  Smith  knew  that  he  had 
that  vision ;  he  could  not  deny  it.  A  minister  tried  to  get  him  to ;  his 
supposed  friends,  his  associates,  his  relatives,  and  others  tried  to 
dissuade  him  from  the  assertion  that  he  had  seen  such  a  vision,  had 
received  such  an  authority,  had  obtained  such  power ;  but  he  knew 
whereof  he  spoke,  and  in  the  integrity  of  his  heart  he  maintained  his 
testimony  and  he  maintained  it  throughout  his  life  to  the  day  of  his 
death.    He  sealed  that  testimony  with  the  blood  of  a  martyr  for  the 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


truth,  not  less,  but  for  God  and  the  truth,  for  the  fact  that  God  is 
and  had  spoken  to  him,  and  had  delivered  through  him  a  message 
to  all  of  his  children. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  would  not  speak*  thus  if  I  were  not 
able  to  bear  witness  that  V  have  received  such  a  testimony.  I  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet,  not  alone  because  of  the  spirit,  I  will 
say,  of  my  mission,  which  confirmed  that  testimony  and  that  knowledge, 
and  indeed  awakened  my  soul  to  its  reality  and  to  know  the  life  of 
Joseph  Smith — I  have  studied  it. 

I  remember  one  day  in  England,  President  George  A.  Smith, 
first  counselor  to  President  Brigham  Young, .  was  upon  his  return 
journey  home  after  having  visited  Europe  and  Asia,  the  Holy  Land, 
and  he  sent  for  me  to  come  and  stay  with  him  at  the  little  hotel  in 
London,  and  to  be  his  companion  and  guide  for  about  ten  days,  during 
which  time  we  visited  a  great  many  places  of  note,  of  historical  interest 
and  value.  I  knew  them  pretty  well,  for  I  had  been  there  for  more 
than  a  year.  We  also  visited  a  great  many  notable  people.  We  were 
taken  by  noblemen  of  England  to  their  homes.  We  were  entertained 
at  their  tables.  We  were  taken  into  the  House  of  Lords  and  House  of 
Commons  and  the  Law  Courts.  We  were  shown  by  several  men  of 
renown  courtesies  and  attentions  that  were  in  exchange  for  courtesies 
and  attention  they  had  received,  perhaps,  as  travelers  going  across  the 
continent  and  stopping  for  a  few  days  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

It  was  most  delightful  for  me,  an  education  to  accompany  Presi- 
dent George  A.  Smith,  who  was  a  historian  and  who  knew  history. 
We  would  go  into  St.  Paul's  Cathedral,  for  instance,  and  stand  before 
statues  of  generals,  men  of  letters,  and  men  of  renown  of  one  kind 
and  another,  and  he  would  tell  me  little  personal  incidents  in  their 
lives.  My  accompanying  him  was  one  of  the  most  valuable  educational 
incidents  in  my  life.  But  I  have  not  time  to  dwell  upon  that,  but  upon 
this :  Before  he  left  London  to  come  home  he  said  to  me,  "Junius,  I 
want  to  see  if  it  is  possible  to  find  the  home  of  my  ancestors ;  the 
place  that  they  went  from  in  going  to  America.  They  went  to  America 
about  the  year  1635.  They  settled  in  Topsfield,  Essex  county,  Massa- 
chusetts, and  that  is  the  only  clue  I  have  as  to  where  they  might  have 
gone  from  in  England.  Can  you  find  Topsfield,  Essex  county, 
England?"  "Well,"  said  I,  "I  have  been  all  over  Essex  county,  because 
my  field  of  labor  was  there,  but  I  do  not  recall  Topsfield."  So  I 
got  a  geography  and  searched  but  there  is  no  Topsfield  in  all  England 
spelled  as  it  is  in  Massachusetts.  There  is  a  place  in  Essex  county 
named  Toppesfield,  and  I  presume  it  would  be  pronounced  Topsfield. 
He  said,  "That  is  near  enough."  So  we  set  out,  took  a  train  to  a 
station,  not  knowing  we  could  have  gone  nearer;  that  was  seventeen 
miles  away  from  that  little  country  village  upon  the  Colne  river,  in 
Essex.  Then  we  hired  a  trap  and  rode  across  country  for  seventeen 
miles,  a  beautiful  drive.  We  came  to  the  little  village  of  Toppesfield, 
and  it  was  nightfall,  and  we  went  into  the  inn  there  to  stay  over  night, 


ELDER  JUNIUS  F.  WELLS 


69 


the  "Green  Man  Inn."  Before  we  retired  we  ordered  supper.  Brother 
George  A.  could  not  wait  for  supper  nor  wait  for  morning,  but  thought 
we  should  try  and  see  if  we  could  not  confirm  the  suspicion  that  we 
were  on  the  sacred  ground  that  was  trodden  by  his  ancestors.  And  so 
we  went  into  the  churchyard,  and  I  got  down  on  my  knees  before 
headstones  and  traced  out  the  inscriptions  with  my  finger.  Presently 
I  came  upon  some  Smiths,  upon  some  Thomas  Smiths,  Samuel  Smiths, 
the  same  names  that  were  among  the  Smiths,  and  one  generation  ahead 
of  those  that  were  found  in  Topsfield,  Essex  county,  Massachusetts. 
Brother  George  A.  Smith  said,  "We  have  struck  the  right  lead.  Let 
us  go  and  get  some  supper."  And  so  we  went  back  to  the  little  inn 
and  had  a  very  delicious  supper  of  country  things — some  fresh  eggs, 
and  home-cured  ham,  and  some  lettuce,  and  pepper  grass,  I  remember, 
and  some  other  things.  The  reason  I  mentioned  those  is  because  of 
something  witty  that  Brother  George  A.  said.  In  the  course  of  the 
supper,  after  eating  quite  heartily,  he  said,  "Junius,  pass  the  forage" — 
referring  to  the  green  stuff. 

After  supper,  we  went  up  into  an  upper  bed  room.  It  was  under 
a  thatched  roof  with  a  dormer  window.  There  was  a  little  old  fashioned 
bedstead,  and  there  we  knelt  down  by  the  side  of  the  bed  and  Brother 
George  A.  Smith  poured  out  his  heart  in  prayer  and  in  thanksgiving  to 
the  Almighty.  George  A.  Smith  knew  that  the  gospel  was  restored  to 
the  earth.  George  A.  Smith  knew  that  God  had  appeared  to  Joseph, 
his  kinsman,  and  had  revealed  the  everlasting  gospel.  He  knew  that 
Joseph  Smith  had  been  true  to  his  testimony.  He  poured  out  his  heart 
and  soul  in  prayer,  and  in  that  prayer  he  thanked  God  for  the  oppor- 
tunity he  had  had  of  going  abroad,  of  traveling  over  Europe  and  meeting 
the  peoples  of  the  different  nations,  of  going  to  the  Holy  Land,  and 
of  traversing  spots  that  were  made  sacred  to  us  because  the  Savior 
of  the  world  had  trodden  those  same  paths  and  places.  He  had  seen 
all  that.  Then  he  came  to  this  humble  little  village  in  Essex  and  said, 
"And  above  all,  O  Lord,  I  thank  thee  that  I  am  permitted  to  tread  the 
lanes  that  were  trodden  by  my  ancestors,  that  I  am  permitted  to  receive 
here  information  that  will  open  the  doors  for  those  of  my  kindred  that 
have  gone  before,  and  may  do  a  work  for  them  that  will  effect  their 
salvation  eternally,  according  to  the  gospel  revealed  through  thy  serv- 
ant, Joseph."  I  could  almost  repeat  his  prayer  ;  I  never  before  listened 
to  such  a  prayer.  I  never  before  felt  that  I  was  so  near,  so  close  to  the 
Almighty.  I  will  say,  yes,  I  never  before  felt  the  nearness  of  the 
Savior  of  the  world  as  I  felt  it  while  we  knelt  in  that  room  and  Brother 
George  A.  Smith  poured  out  his  soul  in  thanksgiving  and  praise  to  God. 

Well  now,  from  that  time  I  have  studied  and  followed  the  history 
of  the  Smiths.  I  have  written  a  good  deal  upon  it.  I  have  had  the 
privilege  of  doing  some  things  to  help  to  commemorate  and  hold  up  in 
honor  his  name  before  mankind — the  name  of  Joseph  Smith,  unto  whom 
the  angel  of  God,  Moroni,  standing  before  him  said,  "I  am  a  messenger 
sent  from  the  presence  of  God  to  you,"  as  he  called  him  by  name, 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"and  there  is  a  work  for  you  to  do,  and  your  name  shall  be  spoken  for 
good  and  for  evil  among  all  people,  and  nations  and  kindreds  and 
tongues.    It  shall  be  had  for  good  and  for  evil  among  all  nations." 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  will  clinch  my  personal  testimony. 
I  have  a  right  to.  I  know  through  traveling  very  extensively  in  the 
world,  pretty  well  all  over  Europe,  having  crossed  the  Atlantic  Ocean 
ten  times,  and  pretty  well  all  over  America,  for  I  have  been  in  every 
state  but  two,  and  among  this  people  called  "Mormons."  You  know, 
young  men  and  young  women — who  were  young  when  I  was — you  know 
whether  I  have  borne  my  testimony.  It  is  this:  I  have  discovered 
that  the  world  has  spoken  the  name  of  Joseph  Smith  for  evil;  they 
have  traduced  his  name ;  they  have  wickedly  attempted  to  break  down 
and  destroy  the  influence  of  his  mission ;  they  have  lied  about  his 
kindred,  about  his  ancestors,  about  his  family,  about  their  lives.  I 
went  all  through  that  in  Vermont  and  in  New  York.  I  have  said  time 
and  again  to  people  there,  "Why,  Joseph  Smith  and  his  family  were 
just  like  you  and  your  families,"  and  proved  it  to  them.  "Go  to  the 
records,  in  building  your  churches,  your  schools,  and  in  holding  every 
office  that  anybody  else  held.  They  had  the  respect  of  their  neighbors. 
They  were  industrious,  they  were  upright,  they  were  an  honorable 
family,  and  here  their  descendants  are,  holding  up  their  names  in  honor. 
And  we,  Latter-day  Saints,  a  million  of  us,  have  held  up  Joseph  Smith's 
name  in  honor,  that  his  name  might  be  spoken  for  good." 

This  is  my  testimony  to  you,  as  I  have  said  to  many  people,  while 
standing  on  the  hearthstone  of  the  cottage  where  he  was  born,  where 
his  mother  washed  and  dressed  him  as  a  babe.  Over  the  mantle-piece 
there  is  hung  his  portrait  by  the  side  of  his  mother's,  at  the  other  side 
his  brother  Hyrum's,  and  under  Joseph  Smith's  painted  portrait,  framed 
in  a  little  gold  frame,  are  the  printed  words  which  I  have  just  quoted 
to  you,  from  the  lips  of  Moroni,  saying  that  his  name  should  be  spoken 
for  good  and  evil.  I  have  said  to  hundreds,  and  those  who  have 
succeeded  me  in  the  management  of  that  memorial  in  Vermont  have 
said  to  thousands  since,  "Read  that  now ;  you  of  the  world,  unbelievers 
in  'Mormonism,'  have  been  speaking  the  name  of  Joseph  Smith  for 
evil ;  we  Latter-day  Saints  have  built  this  monument  and  this  memorial 
to  show  our  love,  our  admiration  and  our  testimony  and  bearing  our 
witness  for  good,  that  his  name  might  be  spoken  for  good.  So,  between 
you  and  us  we  have  fulfilled  the  words  of  the  angel  of  God,  and  proved 
Joseph  Smith,  who  quoted  them  and  gave  them  to  the  world,  a  prophet 
of  God." 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  all  with  a  testimony  that  shall  abide  in  our 
souls,  a  light  to  our  paths,  a  guide  to  our,,  footsteps.  There  is  nothing 
so  precious  as  this ;  there  is  no  truth  so  certain  as  this ;  there  is  no 
institution,  there  is  no  purpose  of  Almighty  God,  against  whom  none 
can  prevail,  so  certain  as  the  triumph  of  this  work  known  as  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Amen. 


ELDER  A.  E.  PARKS 


71 


ELDER  A.  E.  PARKS 

President  of  the  Gunnison  Stake 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  do  not  suppose  that  I  shall  again  have 
the  same  peculiar  feeling  that  I  had  when  my  name  was  announced 
in  the  conference  this  morning,  as  a  speaker  for  this  afternoon's  session. 
It  was  a  feeling  of  great  fear,  and  yet  into  my  heart  came  a  desire  to 
perform  the  mission  that  the  president  of  the  Church  had  called  me  to 
perform.  I  came  into  this  building  with  the  same  fear — a  fear  of  you 
and  a  fear  of  myself,  but  as  I  heard  you  sing  that  wonderful  song, 
"Redeemer  of  Israel,  our  only  delight,"  the  fear  of  you  left  me, 
because  I  knew  that  I  should  have  the  privilege  of  talking  to  men  and 
women  who  had  in  their  hearts  a  testimony  of  the  gospel,  and  that 
when  the  spirit  of  that  testimony  was  upon  them,  who  had  time  and 
again  borne  testimony  to  the  fact  that  they  knew  God  lives,  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  the  son  of  the  living  God,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet  of  the  true  and  living  God,  and  that  notwithstanding  their 
many  weaknesses,  God  had  blessed  them.  I  knew  that  I  would  have 
the  privilege  of  talking  to  men  and  women  who,  in  their  hours  of 
trial,  had  called  into  their  homes  the  bishop  of  their  ward,  the  president 
of  their  stake,  who  had  been  with  them,  who  had  laid  hands  upon  the 
heads  of  their  loved  ones  and  to  their  loved  ones  had  come  health 
and  strength,  and  into  their  hearts  had  come  the  peace  of  the  gospel, 
and  my  fear  of  you  had  [left  me  entirely,  though  for  myself  it  still 
remains,  that  I  might  not  have  the  ability,  the  power  to  make  the 
contact  with  the  Spirit  of  our  Father  in  heaven  that  might  leave  a 
message  with  you  today.  May  I  not  ask  that  the  few  moments  I  stand 
before  you  that  you  offer  a  silent  prayer  in  my  behalf,  that  God  may 
give  me  the  power  to  say  something  that  you  may  carry  home,  that  will 
make  you  a  little  better,  make  you  a  little  happier,  that  will  give  us 
a  little  more  power  that  we  may  perform  the  mission  to  which  God 
has  called  us,  and  also  that  he  will  give  to  you  an  understanding  heart, 
that  what  I  say  may  find  lodgment  therein? 

I  know,  brethren  and  sisters,  beyond  the  shadow  of  doubt,  that 
there  is  in  this  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  a  power  beyond  the  power  of  men, 
that  will  take  men  and  women  of  mediocre  ability  and  raise  them  up 
and  magnify  them  so  that  they  may  perform  a  wonderful  service  to 
which  they  have  been  called  by  God,  so  that  they  may  perform  the 
service  of  representing  our  Father  in  heaven  upon  this  earth,  so  that 
they  may  come  to  the  people  and  convey  to  them,  under  the  authority 
of  God,  the  power  of  the  Priesthood,  that  they  may  be  changed  in 
their  minds,  so  that  the  Spirit  of  God  may  actuate  them,  may  impel  them 
forward  to  do  the  thing  that  God  would  have  them  do. 

I  think  there  is  one  principle  of  the  gospel  that  is  more  important, 
probably,  than  all  else,  and  it  is  that  of  which  I  wanted  to  speak  this 
afternoon.  It  is  this  principle  announced  by  our  Savior,  through  Joseph 
Smith,  that  we  should  be  one,  and  if  we  are  not  one,  we  are  not  his. 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  question  has  often  come  to  me,  "How  may  we  be  one?"  It  has 
come  to  you,  too,  I  know.  Some  of  our  brethren  and  sisters  think 
that  it  is  to  carry  out  their  own  particular  ideas,  their  own  views,  and 
a  few  have  gotten  together  and  tried  to  carry  them  out.  I  do  not 
believe  that  it  is  true.  I  believe  that  when  the  Lord  said  we  should  be 
one,  he  meant  that  we  should  be  one  with  those  who  preside  over  us, 
be  one  with  the  prophet  of  God.  Is  not  that  true?  The  Lord  has 
said  some  marvelous  and  wonderful  things  for  the  blessing  of  those 
who  would  be  in  harmony  with  those  whom  he  calls  to  leadership. 
In  the  matter  of  priesthood,  he  says,  in  the  84th  section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants : 

.  "For  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the  obtaining  these  two  priesthoods  of  which 
T  have  spoken,  and  the  magnifying  their  calling,  are  sanctified  by  the  Spirit 
unto  the  renewing  of  their  bodies. 

"They  become  the  sons  of  Moses  and  of  Aaron  and  the  seed  of 
Abraham,  and  the  church  and  kingdom,  and  the  elect  of  God. 

"And  also  all  they  who  receive  this  priesthood  receive  me,  saith  the  Lord ; 

"For  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth  my  Father ; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father  receiveth  my  Father's  kingdom;  therefore 
all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be  given  unto  him." 

How  could  that  be  possible,  that  all  the  Father  hath  should  be 
given  unto  them?    ,And  to  make  it  sure. 

"This  is  according  to  the  oath  and  covenants,  which  belongeth  to  the 
priesthood,    *    *    *    which  he  cannct  break,  neither  can  it  be  moved.    *  *" 

And  I  have  often  wondered  how  it  could  be,  how  I  could  be  one 
with  God,  how  we  could  be  one  with  God.  And  a  testimony  of  it  came 
to  me.  We  shall  never  have  the  authority  of  God ;  he  will  always 
preside.  .  We  brethren  who  have  received  the  Priesthood  have  received 
authority  to  act  in  the  name  of  God,  and  to  the  extent  of  that  authority 
we  may  act,  and  any  act  we  perform  in  righteousness  under  that 
authority  is  a  binding  act  and  God  will  recognize  it.  But  there  needs 
to  come  something  else  into  our  lives,  and  that  is,  if  we  would  be  one 
with  God,  if  we  would  have  the  power  of  God,  we  must  exercise  that 
Priesthood,  must  magnify  it  by  our  lives,  by  our  clean  living,  and  by 
our  service. 

It  is  a  wonderful  testimony  borne  to  you  by  Brother  Junius  F. 
Wells,  who  received  the  spirit  of  his  calling  and  was  the  means  in  the 
hands  of  God  of  establishing  our  wonderful  Young  Men's  Mutual 
Improvement  Association. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  Lord  has  said  that  the  time 
would  come  that  those  who  would  not  receive  the  servants  of  the 
Lord,  nor  hear  the  words  of  the  prophets  and  apostles,  and  the 
servants  of  the  Lord,  should  be  cut,  off  from  among  the  people. 
The  prophet  Mormon  bore  that  testimony  but  he  said  some  other 
marvelous  things.  There  is  one  marvelous  promise,  with  which  I 
am  going  to  close,  after  warning  you,  if  I  may,  against  those  who 
would  come  into  your  lives  and  sow  the  seeds  of  discord  and  put 
a  bar  between  you  and  the  men  whom  God  has  called  to  lead  this 


ELDER  A.  E.  PARKS 


73 


Church ;  between  you  and  the  bishop  of  your  ward,  or  the  ward  teachers, 
or  the  president  of  the  stake,  or  the  president  of  the  Church.  I  would 
warn  you  that  those  men  and  women  who  would  do  this  are  not  actuated 
with  the  spirit  of  God  but  by  the  spirit  of  evil.  I  will  read  to  you  what 
the  Lord  says  in  regard  to  that  in  the  121st  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants : 

"Cursed  are  all  those  that  shall  lift  up  the  heel  against  mine  anointed,  saith 
the  Lord,  and  cry  they  have  sinned  when  they  have  not  sinned  before  me,  saith 
the  Lord,  but  have  done  that  which  was  meet  in  mine  eyes,  and  which  I  com- 
manded them. 

"But  those  who  cry  transgression  do  it  because  they  are  the  servants  of 
sin,  and  are  the  children  of  disobedience  themselves. 

"And  those  who  swear  falsely  against  my  servants,  that  they  might  bring 
them  into  bondage  and  death — 

"Wo  unto  them ;  because  they  have  offended  my  little  ones  they  shall  be 
severed  from  the  ordinances  of  mine  house. 

"Their  basket  shall  not  be  full,  their  houses  and  their  barns  shall  perish, 
and  they  themselves  shall  be  despised  by  those  that  flattered  them." 

Let  me  read  again  : 

"But  those  who  cry  transgression  do  it  because  they  are  the  servants  of  sin, 
and  are  the  children  of  disobedience  themselves." 

Do  not  .permit  it.  As  you  love  your  lives,  your  salvation,  the 
salvation  of  your  boys  and  girls,  brethren  and  sisters,  never  let  a  word 
be  said  in  your  house  or  hearing  against  the  constituted  servants  of  the 
Lord,  because  I  tell  you,  when  they  go  out  of  the  way,  the  Lord  him- 
self will  remove  them,  that  his  people  will  not  be  deceived.  But  there 
is  one  thing,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  you  can  do,  and  it  will  make  a  tie 
between  yourselves  and  our  Father  in  heaven,  between  your  children  and 
our>Father  in  heaven  that  can  never  be  broken — they  may  drift  one  way 
or  another,  but  ultimately  they  will  come  back  and  receive  the  blessings 
of  the  gospel — and  that  is  the  thing  that  the  Lord  has  revealed  in  the 
21st  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  in  which  he  said: 

"Wherefore,  meaning  the  Church,  thou  shalt  give  heed  unto  all  his  [speaking 
of  the  president  of  the  Church]  words  and  commandments  which  he  shall  give 
unto  you  as  he  receiveth  them,  walking  in  all  holiness  before  me ; 

"For  his  word  ye  shall  receive,  as  if  from  mine  own  mouth,  in  all  patience 
and  faith." 

Here  is  the  most  wonderful  promise,  one  which  would  make  this 
gospel  an  absolutely  vital  force  in  your  lives : 

"For  by  doing  these  things  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  you ; 
yea,  and  the  Lord  God  will  disperse  the  powers  of  darkness  from  before  you, 
and  cause  the  heavens  to  shake  for  your  good,  and  his  name's  glory." 

I  want  to  leave  with  you  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  I  do  know  beyond  the  shadow  of  a  doubt  that  God  does  operate 
through  these  men  whom  he  has  called  to  lead  in  Israel.  You  may  go  to 
your  bishop  with  any  problem,  and  if  you  will  act  on  his  advice  given 
you  as  you  go  prayerfully  to  receive  it,  you  may  know  it  is  the  word 
of  God  to  you.  You  may  go  to  the  president  of  the  stake  and  president 
of  the  Church  in  their  proper  order,  and  receive  that  same  blessing.  T 
do  know  that  President  Heber  J.  Grant  is  the  prophet  of  God,  and  i- 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


actuated  by  the  power  of  God,  and  the  counsel  he  gives  us  in  these 
conferences  is  the  word  of  God,  the  living  scripture  to  us,  and  if 
we  obey  it,  we  and  our  families  may  return  to  the  presence  of  God 
and  receive  those  blessings  that  are  ours.  May  this  be  the  lot  of  all  of 
us,  I  ask,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  male  quartette,  consisting  of  Leland  I.  Acomb,  C.  C.  Martin, 
Leon  G.  Smith,  W.  S.  Holdaway,  sang,  '.The  last  chord." 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  desire  to  endorse  all  that  has  been  said  concerning  the  di- 
vinity of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ,  who  came  in  the 
meridian  of  time  and  at  the  close  of  his  earthly  mission  died  that  we 
might  live ;  also  all  that  has  been  said  concerning  the  divine  mission 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  whose  spirit  was  reserved  to  come 
upon  the  earth  in  the  latter  days  to  establish  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  again,  with  all  its  powers  and  keys  and  blessings.  It  is  the 
privilege  of  every  Latter-day  Saint  to  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was 
divinely  appointed  and  ordained  for  the  great  work  which  he  per- 
formed in  his  brief  ministry  in  these  latter  days.  No  Latter-day 
Saint  should  be  satisfied  until  these  testimonies  burn  within  him. 

It  is  the  mission  of  this  Church  to  declare  to  the  world  these 
two  great  truths.  The  Christian  world  toda}'  is  greatly  concerned 
with  the  problem  of  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Son  of  God, 
and  this  problem  arises  from  the  lack  of  testimony  concerning  these 
two  great  personages.  Confusion  and  dissension  will  be  with  the 
churches  of  the  earth  until  they  conform  to  the  laws  and  ordinances 
of  the  gospel.  The  members  of  these  churches  will  have  to  exercise 
faith  in  the  Redeemer  as  the  Son  of  God  and  sincerely  repent  of  their 
sins ;  then  go  down  into  the  waters  of  baptism  for  the  remission  of 
these  sins,  and  receive  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  hands 
by  those  who  have  authority  to  do  so.  Then  by  prayer,  faithful- 
ness, obedience,  humility  and  meekness  they  may  obtain  a  testi- 
mony of  Jesus  Christ  and  Joseph  Smith,  knowing  that  Jesus  is  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world  and  that  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  the 
gospel  was  restored  to  the  earth. 

The  work  of  the  Lord  is  moving  rapidly.  More  missionaries 
are  in  the  field  than  ever  before.  Mature  men  are  sparing  time  to 
go  into  the  mission  field  again  for  a  period  of  about  six  months, 
and  they  have  carried  the  message  of  the  gospel  to  old  acquaint- 
ances as  well  as  new.  It  is  hoped  that  from  year  to  year  the  num- 
ber of  missionaries  who  are  carrying  the  gospel  message  to  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth  will  increase. 

Another  temple  is  almost  finished,  being  located  in  Mesa, 
Arizona.  Five  temples  are  now  in  daily  operation,  and  this  new  one 
will,  no  doubt,  be  ready  early  in  the  coming  year.    It  has  been  built 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


75 


from  the  donations  and  gifts  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  from  the 
tithes.  It  is  a  wonderful  building,  everything  being  of  the  latest  in 
temple  architecture.  Thousands  of  men  and  women  are  waiting 
to  enter  that  House  of  the  Lord  to  do  ordinance  work  for  the  living 
and  the  dead. 

Elder  Junius  F.  Wells  mentioned  the  old  landmarks  of  the 
Church,  the  Memorial  Farm  in  Vermont,  the  Hill  Cumorah  in  New 
York,  and  other  places.  The  Church  has  recently  acquired  the  farm 
of  Father  Peter  Whitmer  in  Fayette,  Seneca  county,  New  York, 
consisting  of  about  one  hundred  and  twenty  acres  of  land.  It  was 
on  this  farm  that  the  Church  was  organized  on  the  sixth  day  of 
April,  1830.  Some  may  say,  Why  purchase  this  property?  I  am 
satisfied  that  the  day  will  come  when  these  historic  places  will  be 
visited  by  tourists  and  Latter-day  Saints  in  great  numbers,  who 
will  stand  in  reverence  in  such  hallowed  spots.  On  this  farm,  and 
probably  in  the  very  house  on  it,  the  first  Sacrament  was  admin- 
istered by  the  Prophet,  after  those  present  had  gone  through  the 
formality  of  organizing  the  Church  in  accordance  with  the  laws 
of  the  State  of  New  York. 

The  late  President  Seymour  B.  Young  spent  years  of  his  life 
in  trying  to  gather  sufficient  funds  to  erect  on  the  Temple  Block 
here  in  Salt  Lake  City  a.  memorial  to  those  who  came  across  the 
plains  with  hand-carts,  people  who  came  mainly  from  England, 
Scotland  and  Scandinavia.  With  these  companies  were  a  few 
wagons,  carrying  some  of  the  people's  heavy  belongings,  and  also 
carrying  food.  The  remainder  of  their  effects  was  placed  in  hand- 
carts, which  were  pulled  for  a  thousand  miles  or  more  across  the 
plains,  where  the  only  road  was  the  trail  made  by  the  wagons  that 
had  gone  before.  A  beautiful  monument  in  memory  of  these  brave 
people  is  now  cast  in  enduring  bronze  and  is  placed  in  the  front 
entrance  to  the  Bureau  of  Information.  Do  not  go  home  until  you 
have  looked  at  it,  thought  about  it,  and  seen  how  the  artist  has 
depicted  the  sufferings  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  showing  the  pathos 
of  it,  showing  the  indomitable  spirit  that  brought  these  people 
across  the  plains. 

One  of  the  great  Christian  churches  has  held  a  celebration  in 
the  United  States,  during  which  special  stress  was  given  to  the 
Sacrament  of  the  Lord's  Supper.  Because  of  statements  found  in 
the  Bible,  this  Church  declares  in  its  doctrines  that  when  the  wafer 
or  bread  and  the  wine  are  blessed  they  are  actually  transformed  into 
the.  body  and  blood  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Such  instances  as 
this  show  'how  important  it  is  that  the  Latter-day  Saint",  should 
have  prophets  and  apostles  who  may  receive  the  word  of  the  Lord 
in  this  day  and  properly  interpret  the  instructions  given  in  former 
days. 

The  Sacrament  of  the  Lord's  Supper  is  one  of  the  most  solemn 
services  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  hold.  In  these  latter  days,-  the 
first  Sacrament  was  administered  in  the  home  of  Father  Whitmer, 
as  stated  before,  according  to  instructions  contained  in  section  20  of 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  This  Sacrament  was  insti- 
tuted by  Jesus  Christ  on  the  eve  of  his  crucifixion. 

Shortly  before  his  death  he  had  raised  Lazarus  from  the  dead. 
It  had  become  known  in  all  the  region  round  about  that  he  had 
done  this,  and  thousands  of  people  who  were  gathering  for  the 
Passover  heard  of  it.  His  enemies,  the  Pharisees,  chief  priests  and 
scribes,  were  afraid  of  his  popularity.  He  visited  the  temple  and 
the  voice  of  the  Father  was  heard  acknowledging  him  to  be  his 
Son.  The  following  day  he  visited  the  temple  again  and  drove  out 
the  money  changers,,  and  that  was  the  last  time  he  entered  that 
sacred  building.  He  resided  with  his  friends  in  Bethany,  where  a 
feast  was  held  at  the  home  of  Lazarus.  The  day  following,  Wednes- 
day, he  gave  his  disciples  private  and  final  instructions  in  some 
secluded  place  on  the  Mount  of  Olives.  On  'Thursday  he  asked  his 
disciples  to  prepare  for  the  feast,  and  no  doubt  that  remarkable 
ceremony  was  carried  out  in  the  style  customary  to  the  Galileans, 
for  all  the  disciples  of  Jesus  were  Galileans,  with  the  exception  of 
Judas  Iscariot.  The  supper  being  over,  he  took  off  his  outer  gar- 
ments, girded  himself  with  a  towel,  and  washed  the  feet  of  his, 
disciples.  Peter  objected,  but  when  his  Master  told  him  that  if  he 
did  not  do  this  he  would  have  no  part  or  lot  with  him,  the  impulsive 
man  said,  "Lord,  not  my  feet  only,  but  also  my  hands  and  my  head." 
After  that,  he  gave  his  disciples  some  advice  and  encouragement  and 
uttered  that  (wonderful  prayer  contained  in  the  17th  chapter  of 
John.  And  then  he  brake  bread  and  blessed  it  and  gave  it  to  his 
disciples,  saying,  Take,  eat,  this  is  my  body;  as  oft  as  ye  meet  do 
this  in  remembrance  of  me.  Then,  after  this  had  been  partaken  of 
by  those  present  in  the  room,  he  blessed  the  wine  and  said,  Drink, 
for  this  is  my  blood  which  is  shed.  No  doubt  the  disciples  par- 
took of  this  solemnly  and  remembered  his  injunction  that  as  oft  as 
they  should  meet  they  should  do  this  in  remembrance  of  his  suf- 
ferings and  death. 

He  left  no  ritual,  he  did  not  say  how  the  religious  ordinances 
of  the  new  Christian  Church,  composed  of  his  followers  and  be- 
lievers, should  be  carried  out.  It  is  presumed  that  he  expected  they 
would  carry  out  the  old  Jewish  services,  but  in  addition  to  this  He 
said,  in  effect :  As  oft  as  ye  meet,  partake  of  the  emblems  of  my: 
body  and  blood  in  the  shape  of  bread  and  wine,  and  do  this  in  re- 
membrance of  me.  Evidently  he  gave  to  his  disciples  the  true  form 
of  prayer  which  he  desired  them  to  repeat  when  blessing  the  bread 
and  the  wine,  and  that  same  prayer  has  been  given  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  and  is  contained  in  section  20  of  the  book  of  ■  Doctrine 
and  Covenants. 

No  Latter-day  Saint  can  keep  alive  in  his  heart  the  testimony 
of  Jesus  Christ  and  live  the  gospel  unless  he  partakes  of  the  Sac- 
rament of  the  Lord's  Supper  frequently,  with  clean  hands  and  a 
pure  heart,  remembering  the  purpose  of  this  Sacrament  is  to  remind 
us  of  the  death  and  sufferings  of  our  Lord  and  Master  until  he 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


77 


comes  again.  We  Latter-day  Saints  should  go  to  our  meeting- 
places  regularly  and  in  the  most  solemn  manner  center  our  thoughts 
upon  the  great  sacrifice  made  by  our  Lord  and  Savior;  and  we 
should  not  partake  pf  the  bread  and  the  water  unthinkingly  or 
carelessly.  This  partaking  of  the  Sacrament  should  be  done  on 
the  Lord's  day,  for  on  that  day  the  Lord  has  said  we  should  go  to 
his  house  and  partake  of  his  Sacrament. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  that  we  may  sense  our  responsibilities 
and  privileges  as  Latter-day  Saints,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  The  great  inspiring  idea  of  this  con- 
ference to  me  has  been  the  admonition  of  Christ :  "Rise  up  and  be 
God's  child."  God  created  man  in  his  own  image,  and  the  divine 
within  man  teaches  him  the  truth  and  value  of  character  and  right- 
eousness based  upon  a  supreme  faith  in  the  Father  of  us  all.  The 
Latter-day  Saints  hold  sacredly  to  the  fundamental  teachings  of 
our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ.  In  all  their  history  they  have 
believed  that  Christ  is  the  sure  guide  to  the  way  of  life.  This  was 
true  of  the  brave  souls  who  crossed  the  plains  in  the  very  early 
days  and  made  their  way  to  Zion  here  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains. 

The  handcart  immigrants  mentioned  by  the  previous  speaker 
suffered  untold  hardships,  not  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  wealth 
and  power,  but  fundamentally  for  the  glorification  of  God  and 
bringing  to  pass  his  divine  purposes.  May  I  just  add  a  thought 
or  two  more  concerning  the  handcart  pioneers.  Like  their  other 
brethren  and  sisters  who  came  to  Utah  in  the  days  of  the  old  trail 
by  ox-team  and  on  foot,  they  did  a  great  deed ;  and  the  result  of 
their  work  stands  ineffaceable  and  beyond  forgetfulness.  They 
had  strong  characters  and  unyielding  courage.  They  came  to  work 
out  their  destiny.  Religious  freedom  was  one  of  their  motives, 
and  they  possessed  a  very  fine  and  lofty  courage,  and  are  to 
be  reverently  admired  by  all  the  people  of  this  state.  They  put 
above  all  things  the  possessions  of  the  mind  and  the  heart.  When 
they  achieved  their  purpose,  through  much  tribulation  and  suffer- 
ing, they  opened  their  doors  to  the  honest  in  heart,  and  told  them 
to  enter.  In  the  law  of  progress,  these  pioneers  stand  forth  as 
_  exemplars  of  certain  great  principles,  which  never  can  grow  old. 
They  set  character  first ;  and  reverenced  intellectual  and  religious 
achievement. 

President  Brigham  Young  saw  this  wilderness  country  in  radiant 
vision,  and  the  unconquered  soil  was  a  symbol  of  spiritual  regeneration. 
And  what  did  those  pioneers  of  yesterday,  and  the  Saints  of  today  stand 
for?  It  is  the  gospel  of  Christ  Jesus  which  speaks  to  us  with  so  much 
power  that  it  cannot  be  mistaken.  It  is  a  revelation  of  the  meaning  and 
responsibility  of  life.   It  involves  great  and  illuminating  ideas  and  truths 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  if  mankind  will  work  for  them,  the  security  of  the  race  in  peace 
and  understanding  will  be  assured.  If  we  take  a  general  view  of 
Christ's  teachings  we  will  find  that  they  emphasized  the  truth 
of  the  Kingdom  of  God  and  its  coming;  that  he  taught  the  Father- 
hood of  God  and  the  infinite  value  of  the  human  soul,  and  .that 
out  of  his  teachings  grow  the  higher  righteousness  and  the  com- 
mandment of  love.  Louder  and  more  confident  voices  proclaim 
these  truths  today,  because  in  the  infinite  goodness  and  mercy  of 
God  his  divine  Priesthood  has  been  restored,  and  man  has  again 
been  made  free  to  find  eternal  life. 

It  is  religion,  the  love  of  God  and  neighbor,  which,  gives  life 
radiancy ;  and  in  this  divine  feeling  we  realize  better  the  meaning 
and  aim  of  life.  The  knowledge  of  the  meaning  of  God's  Kingdom 
grows  steadily  and  silently  in  the  heart  of  the  man  who  grows  in 
faith  and  allows  his  soul  to  be  illumined  by  the  spirit  of  Christ  our  Lord. 
This  Kingdom  of  the  Master  can  be  understood  only  from  within.  While 
the  Kingdom  of  heaven  is  to  come  to  us,  it  will  be  understood  only 
by  our  spiritual  natures.  Every  doctrine  that  he  taught  was  a 
message  of  the  Kingdom. 

God  placed  a  value  on  the  human  soul,  and  taught  that  it  is 
capable  of  endless  spiritual  and  intellectual  development.  The 
Glory  of  God  is  intelligence;  so  intelligence  is  the  glory  of  man. 
This  glory  is  the  Spirit  of  truth,  which  "leads  man  into  all  truth." 
The  soul  is  man  perfected,  and  a  man  perfected  is  one  who  knows 
not  only  truth,  but  is  "a  man  of  the  truth." 

What  a  divine  duty  the  gospel  of  Christ  imposes  upon  you  and 
me ;  the  duty  to  develop  our  spirits  and  intellects  to  the  highest 
degree  and  to  their  infinite  possibilities.  Then  there  is  the  higher 
righteousness  and  the  commandment  of  love.  When  Jesus  was 
asked  what  the  great  commandment  is,  he  replied :  "Thou  shalt 
love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul, 
and  with  all  thy  mind  *  *  *  and  thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor 
as  thyself."  This  is  a  sphere  of  ethical  thought  that  is  peculiarly 
expressive  of  the  gospel  of  Christ.  It  is  in  this  sense  that  Jesus 
combined  religion  and  morality.  The  higher  morality  depends 
upon  the  conception  of  Christ's  teachings,  and  the  developing  of 
the  simple  faith  in  God.  No  system  of  ethics  has  ever  bettered 
this  system  of  the  Master,  and  the  pure  Christian  virtues  are  the  most 
secure  force  today  to  heal  the  sins  and  ills  of  the  world.  The  world 
cannot  be  far  from  religious  feeling.  Religion  is  a  natural  out- 
growth in  man.  When  man  began  to  think  and  feel  and  wonder,  he 
had  longings  to  find  out  the  infinite.  So  he  naturally  came  to  God, 
and  God  blessed  him  with  divine  power.  "Wherever  there  is  man, 
there  is  religion."  My  friends,  we  cannot  be  much  until  we  have 
touched  the  infinite  religion  of  spirits.  Step  by  step  we  must  rise 
to  the  demand  of  religion,  and  set  before  us  the  aesthetic  ideals  of 
Christ,  our  Lord,  and  abide  by  his  thought  that  the  love  of  God  is  the 
abhorrence  of  evil.    Jesus  had  a  great  loving  world  purpose.  There 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


7(J 


cannot  be  true  victory  in  life  until  every  activity  of  man — economic, 
political,  social,  ethical,  and  intellectual — be  influenced  by  the  divine  pur- 
pose of  Christ,  our  Lord.   That  is  victory. 

I  must  not  speak  longer.  May  God  help  us  to  see  the  greater 
laws  of  righteousness ;  may  he  strengthen  our  testimonies  from 
day  to  day.  May  we  lift  up  our  thoughts  to  him,  and  know  that 
life  and  light  come  as  we  approach  God.  It  was  a  mighty  sage 
who  wrote :  "God  ever  works  with  him  who  works  with  God." 
The  religion  of  Christ  has  a  personal  appeal  to  us  all.  "Let  the 
wicked  forsake  his  way,  and  the  unrighteous  man  his  thoughts :  and 
let  him  return  unto  the  Lord,  and  he  will  have  mercy  on  him ;  and 
to  our  God,  for  he  will  abundantly  pardon."  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "God  is  our  refuge  and  strength." 
The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Orson  Allen  of  the 
Ensign  stake. 


SECOND  DAY 

MORNING  SESSION 

The  Tabernacle  was  comfortably  filled,  both  on  the  lower  floor  and 
in  the  galleries,  when  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  on  Monday  morning, 
10  o'clock,  October  4,  1926,  announced  that  the  congregation  would 
sing,  as  the  opening  hymn,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints." 

Following  the  spirited  singing,  Elder  George  H.  Brimhall  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

A  sacred  soprano  solo  was  sung  by  Pearl  Kimball  Davis^  entitled, 
"Eye  hath  not  seen." 

> 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

I  have  enjoyed  greatly,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  addresses 
and  the  music  of  this  conference.  My  soul  has  been  fed.  I  always 
delight  to  know  that  I  belong  to  an  organization  that  speaks  with 
authority,  and  I  glory  in  the  fact  that  those  who  stand  at  the  head  of 
this  great  Church  exercise  the  right  of  their  authority.  May  I  add 
to  President  Grant's  remarks  that  whenever  we  sing  the  hymn,  "We 
thank  thee  O  God  for  a  prophet,"  we  have  in  mind  Joseph  Smith,  the 
prophet  of  the  restoration,  and  also  the  living  prophet  whom  we  sustain 
and  uphold,  and  who  guides  us,  under  God's  inspiration,  in  his  day. 

THE  BEGINNING  OF  THE  WORK 

Perhaps  the  most  impressive  thought  that  comes  to  me  as  I  look 
over  these  vast  congregations  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  recall  all  that 
they  represent  in  social  and  economic  conquest  and  in  rich  spiritual 
living,  is  that  all  this  has  come  out  of  a  very  simple  beginning.  A  lad, 
seeking  for  truth,  cried  in  the  darkness  for  light.  Out  of  that  simple, 
humble  beginning,  has  come  this  mighty  work.  In  my  reading  I  turn 
most  frequently  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith's  own  story  of  his  first 
vision,  and  I  return  invariably  refreshed  and  strengthened,  inspired 
and  thrilled,  by  that  simple  story.  Joseph  Smith,  not  yet  fifteen  years 
of  age,  in  the  midst  of  contending  religious  opinions,  set  out  to  find 
the  truth.  To  God,  the  .author  of  truth,  he  stated  his  desire  and  the 
Father,  in  his  graciousness,  in  his  mercy,  gave  to  the  boy  that  for 
which  he  asked. 

THE  FIRST  VISION  A  LESSON  TO  ALL 

It  seems  to  me  that  this  Church  has  been  given  no  greater  lesson — 
one  that  should  be  remembered  by  the  Church  by -all  people  and  by 
every  individual.  Men  cannot  live'by  untruth  or  near  truth.  Spiritual 
contentment  is  won  only  when  one  has  the  full  truth,  or  the  truth 
just  as  fully  as  it  may  be  available  to  him.    Out  of  such  individual 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


81 


desire  and  search  for  truth  has  come  this  great  body  of  people,  men 
and  women,  who  know  for  themselves — they  'having  gone  to  God  in 
their  search — that  this  is  the  truth.  In  this  Church  and  kingdom  we 
stand  Upon  individual  testimonies  of  the  truth.  We  depend  not  upon 
the  prophet,  great  though  he  may  be,  who  guides  the  Church  at  this 
time,  or  upon  any  other  man,  but  we,  having  a  witness  of  the  spirit, 
know  for  ourselves  that  this  is  the  truth.  Out  of  such  training,  desire 
and  high  knowledge  has  come  a  people  the  like  of  which  has  not  been 
known  before  upon  the  face  of  the  earth — a  kingdom  of  priests  and 
priestesses  such  as  the  prophets  of  old  dreamed  about  and  wrote  about. 

TRUTH  DEFINED 

In  one  of  the  great  revelations  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  now  known  as  Section  93,  there  is  a  splendid  discussion  of 
truth.  In  that  section  there  is  a  comprehensive  definition  of  truth. 
"Truth  is  knowledge  of  things  as  they  are  and  as  they  were  and  as 
they  iare  to  come." 

ALL  TRUTH  ACCEPTED 

It  is  a  happy  claim,  and  may  I  say  a  proud  claim  on  the  part  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  that  they  accept  all  truth,  no  matter  whence  it  comes, 
or  what  its  nature  may  be,  whether  it  be  scientific,  philosophical  or  re- 
ligious. If  it  be  the  truth,  we  accept  it,  and  know  that  there  is  a  place 
for  it  in  the  great  plan  of  truth,  known  as  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
We  Latter-day  Saints  welcome  the  great  advances  of  these  latter  days. 
The  remarkable  conquests  in  pure  and  applied  science :  the  telegraph, 
the  telephone,  the  radio,  the  airplane,  all  the  marvels  of  this  day,  we 
accept  gladly  and  have  no  quarrel  with  them.  Whenever  the  chemist 
discovers,  as  a  few  months  ago,  an  element  that  had  not  been  known 
before,  we  Latter-day  Saints  welcome  that  new  knowledge,  for  we 
recognize  that  another  step  toward  the  ultimate  conquest  of  nature,  and 
of  the  universe,  has  been  taken  by  man  through  the  inspiration  and 
good  will  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  When  the  astronomer  tells  us  that 
a  new  star  has  been  found  in  the  high  heavens,  we  are  glad  that  more 
truth  has  come  to  us  and  therefore  greater  power.  We  support  those 
who,  in  the  laboratory  or  in  the  field,  as  earnest  and  honest  searchers 
after  truth,  are  seeking  to  unravel  the  mysteries  of  this  great  universe. 
As  a  Church  we  support  such  endeavors  and  sustain  those  who  labor 
in  the  search  of  truth,  no  matter  what  the  truth  may  be. 

RELATIVE  VALUE  OF  TRUTH 

While  Latter-day  Saints  understand  that  all  truth  is  from  God, 
and  is  desirable,  and  will  be  ours  in  time,  yet  we  also  know  that  all 
truth  is  not  of  equal  value  to  humanity.  Some  knowledge  is  ,chiefly 
of  physical  help.  It  makes  possible  houses  and  roads  and  automobiles, 
and  it  feeds  the  body,  thus  making  it  easier  for  us  to  live  on  this 
earth.    Another  type  of  knowledge  feeds  the  mind.    Literature,  art, 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  many  other  branches  of  knowledge  contribute  chiefly  to  the  up- 
building of  man's  intellect.  While  we  accept  all  these  things,  grateful 
for  physical  conveniences,  glad  to  have  the  opportunity  of  mental 
development,  yet  Latter-day  Saints  understand  that  the  truth  of  the 
greatest  worth  to  humanity  is  that  which  controls  and  shapes  human 
actions,  that  which  interprets  to  us  our  relationship  to  God,  our  Maker, 
and  to  our  fellowman;  that  which  lays  before  us  the  great  plan  of 
salvation  and  explains  why  I  am  here,  whence  I  came,  where  I  am  going 
and  what  I  must  do  to  conform  to  the  greater  laws  of  life.  Such  knowl- 
edge becomes  the  greater  truth.  Men  frequently  fail  to  understand 
the  relative  value  of  truth,  and,  therefore,  set  things  that  minister  only 
to  the  physical  world  upon  high  pedestals,  and  place  low  the  truth  that 
deals  with  man's  eternal  journey,  and  with  his  eternal  relationship  to  the 
greatest  Being  in  the  universe.  It  would  not  be  quite  wise  or  consistent 
for  any  one  of  us,  no  matter  what  views  he  may  hold,  to  say  that  men 
of  the-  type  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob,  of  Moses,  Elijah  and  John 
the  Baptist  and  of  other  notables  who  knew  little  about  the  great  dis- 
coveries of  the  last  hundred  years,  were  not  so  great  in  stature  before 
God  and  before  men  as  we  are.  They  did  possess  the  higher  and  more 
valuable  knowledge  and  they  were  seekers  also  after  the  lesser  knowl- 
edge; and  in  our  day,  were  they  here,  they  would  stand  as  we  do, 
lovers  of  all  truth,  but  with  a  clear  understanding,  that  some  truth.? 
minister  to  man's  greatest  and  others  to  his  lesser  needs. 

RELATIVE  VALIDITY  OF  TRUTH 

Not  only  do  Latter-day  Saints  distinguish  carefully  between  the 
greater  and  the  lesser  truths,  but  they  also  recognize  that  not  all 
truth  has  the  same  validity.  We  cannot  accept  all  knowledge  as  being  of 
equal  certainty.  Some  knowledge  I  know  to  be  absolutely  certain,  some 
appears  to  be  true,  and  some  I  hope  may  be  true.  The  man  who  looks 
through  a  microscope  into  the  infinitely  small  is  limited  in  his  search 
for  knowledge  by  the  power  of  that  instrument.  He  can  go  no  further. 
The  man  who  looks  through  a  telescope  into  the  starry  heavens  must 
guess  at  the  things  that  hang  just  beyond  the  reach  of  the  instrument: 
and  the  man  who  builds  a  theory  out  of  observed  facts  builds  only 
a  ladder,  a  scaffolding,  by  which  he  hopes  to  rise  into  that  greater  truth 
for  which  he  seeks.  Therefore,  Latter-day  Saints  are  careful  to  ex- 
amine the  validity  of  the  truths  set  before  them.  We  make  the  satis- 
fying claim  that  the  truth  of  greatest  validity,  that  of  greatest  certainty, 
is  the  truth  that  has  come  from  the  mouth  of  God  by  revelation  to  his 
children  in  this  and  in  every  age  through  the  history  of  the  world.  Is 
the  microscope  a  great  instrument  for  the  gaining  of  knowledge?  Is 
the  telescope  a  great  instrument  for  the  obtaining  of  knowledge?  If 
they  are,  then  man  himself,  with  his  immortal  spirit,  may  be  able  to 
touch  the  unseen  forces  of  life,  to  learn  from  the  spirit  of  the  Al- 
mighty, who  is  the  greatest  revealer  of  knowledge.  Through  the  spirit 
of  man  God  may  speak  with  greater  power  and  with  greater  con- 
viction than  through  any  man-made  instrument.    In  this  Church  we 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


83 


stand  firmly,  before  all  the  world,  upon  the  doctrine  that  that  which  the 
Lord  has  revealed  to  his  children  directly  is  of  the  highest  value  and  of 
the  greatest  validity.  Upon  revealed  truth  will  be  built,  as  the  years 
go  on,  the  whole  structure  of  truth. 

READ  SECTION  93 

I  delight  to  know  that  I  can  build  in  this  manner  the  philosophy  of 
my  life ;  that  I  can  thus  accept  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  existence 
of  Almighty  God,  my  relationship  to  him,  and  his  words  given  to  his 
prophets  at  various  times  in  the  history  of  mankind ;  and  that  beginning 
with  such  knowledge  I  can  accept,  step  by  step  and  fact  by  fact,  all 
knowledge  and  all  truth  as  they  come  through  any  channel  here  on 
earth  and  in  the  hereafter.  I  would  suggest  to  all  Latter-day  Saints  that' 
they  study  section  93  of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  in  which 
the  truth,  our  eternal  quest  for  it,  its  meaning,  and  the  fundamental 
nature  of  the  truths  of  heaven,  are  beautifully  set  forth. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  thank  God  for  the 
possession  of  it.  I  pray  God  to  be  with  us  and  bless  us,  to  be  able  to 
search  out  truth  continually,  to  live  it,  to  accept  it,  to  make  it  a  part 
of  our  lives,  to  grow  in  it  !daily,  and  yet  to  understand  in  our  search 
clearly  and  reasonably  the  limitations  placed  upon  us  so  that  we  may. 
not  be  carried  away  by  those  who  do  not  understand  the  full  truth, 
and,  having  made  a  wrong  beginning,  may  lead  us  to  an  incorrect  end. 

God  bless  us  and  be  with  us  continually,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

It  is  not  expected,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  any  new  doctrine  or 
revelation  will  be  brought  to  the  people  at  this  time. 

WHERE  THE  WORD  OF  THE  LORD  IS  FOUND 

The  word  of  the  Lord  is  to  be  found  in  reasonably  full  measure 
in  the  standard  works  of  the  Church — in  the  Bible,  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price. 
Any  man  or  woman  who  can  master  these  sacred  books,  so  to  speak,  will 
be  fully  informed  as  to  the  purposes  of  the  Lord. 

When  further  scripture,  or  revelation,  is  needed  for  the  guidance  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  it  will  be  given  by  the 
Lord  through  the  President  of  the  Church  who  is  the  prophet  of  God. 

A  GREAT  MYSTERY  EXPLAINED 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  to 
all  who  believe,  to  the  Jews  first  and  also  to  the  Greek.  The  doctrines 
of  the  gospel  are  set  forth  in  the  scriptures  in  simple  language,  and  in 
great  plainness ;  but,  strange  to  say,  the  natural  man  cannot  comprehend 
them,  for  the  apostle  tells  us  in  I  Corinthians,  2:    "But  the  natural 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


man  receiveth  not  the  things  of  the  Spirit  of  God ;  for  they  are  foolish- 
ness unto  him :  neither  can  he  know  them,  because  they  are  spiritually 
discerned." 

"For  what  man  knoweth  the  things  of  a  man,  save  the  spirit  of 
man  which  is  in  him?  even  so  the  things  of  God  knoweth  no  man, 
but  the  Spirit  of  God-"  And  thus  does  the  apostle  explain  a  great 
mystery.  How  beautiful  this  explanation  is,  how  simple,  how  direct — 
that  the  things  of  man  are  to  be  comprehended  by  the  spirit  of  man, 
that  the  things  of  God  are  only  discerned  by  the  Spirit  of  God. 

NO  SINGLE  PRINCIPLE  OF  THE  GOSPEL  WILL  INSURE  SALVATION 

In  the  gospel  there  are  many  doctrines,  all  of  which  are  neces- 
sary to  a  plan  of  salvation.  If  any  one  of  the  doctrines  is  separated 
from  the  others — for  they  are  all  closely  connected  and  are  to  be 
taken  as  a  guide — that  doctrine  will  come  short  of  insuring  salvation, 
it  will  lose  its  power.  Take  for  instance  the  principle  of  faith.  It 
seems  to  be  the  moving  principle  of  action  in  almost  all  things.  The 
Apostle  Paul  says  of  it  in  Hebrews  11  : 

"Through  faith  we  understand  that  the  worlds  were  framed  by  the  word 
of  God,  so  that  things  which  are  seen  were  not  made  of  things  which  do 
appear."    *    *  * 

"By  faith  they  passed  through  the  Red  Sea  as  by  dry  land :  which  the 
Egyptians  assaying  to  do  were  drowned. 

"By  faith  the  walls  of  Jericho  fell  down,  after  they  were  compassed  about 
seven  days.    *    *  * 

"And  what  shall  I  more  say?"  the  apostle  observed,,  "for  the  time  would 
fail  me  to  tell  of  Gedeon,  and  of  Barak,  and  of  Samson,  and  of  Jephthae;  of 
David  also,  and  Samuel,  and  of  the  prophets:  Who  through  faith  subdued 
kingdoms,  wrought  righteousness,  obtained  promises,  stopped  the  mouths  of 
lions,  quenched  the  violence  cf  fire,  escaped  the  edge  of  the  sword,  out  of 
weakness  were  made  strong,  waxed  valiant  in  fight,  turned  to  flight  the  armies 
of  the  aliens." 

WORKS  MUST  ACCOMPANY  FAITH 

You  will  see  by  this  principle  of  faith  that  it  is  a  doctrine  of 
mighty  power,  but  if  it  is  separated  from  the  gospel  principles  and  taken 
as  a  single  guide  it  will  be  lacking  as  a  means  of  salvation-   James  said : 

"Yea,  a  man  may  say,  Thou  hast  faith  and  I  have  works :  shew  me 
thy  faith  without  thy  works,  and  I  will  shew  thee  my  faith  by  my 
works." 

Faith  without  works  is  dead,  being  alone. 

WHAT  ARE  SOME  OF  THESE  WORKS? 

So  it  would  seem  that  works  must  accompany  this  mighty  principle 
of  faith.  What  works  are  there  which  are  related  to  it  and  essential 
to  salvation?  One  of  them  is  repentance.  It  is  said  that  without  faith 
it  is  impossible  to  please  God,  and  I  think  we  may  say  also  that  without 
repentance  it  would  be  impossible  to  please  him.  He  is  a  holy  being, 
and  if  we  expect  to  come  into  his  presence  we  must  become  like  him. 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


85 


John,  the  Baptist,  cried  repentance  in  the  wilderness.  Jesus  preached 
the  doctrine  of  repentance.  It  was  the  burden  of  his  mission,  and  so 
it  is  the  burden  of  our  mission. 

REPENTANCE 

There  is  another  very  important  principle  that  follows  repentance, 
and  involves  the  question  of  works.  That  principle  is  baptism.  Peter, 
on  the  day  of  pentecost,  warned  the  people  regarding  this  important 
matter.  They  were  pricked  in  their  hearts.  They  wanted  to  know 
what  to  do.  He  said :  "Repent  and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  remission  of  your  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost."  Thus  it  became  necessary  that  the  repentant 
believer  should  receive  this  vital  ordinance  of  baptism.  But  the  ordinance 
itself  is  not  sufficient  if  administered  with  water  only.  Baptism  is  dual 
in  its  nature.  It  has  fwo  very  important  phases.  This  was  brought  out 
with  great  clearness  by  the  Savior  who,  in  conversation  with  Nicodemus, 
said : 

"Except  a  man  be  born  again,  he  cannot  see  the  kingdom  of  God." 
And  then  further  he  said  : 

"Except  a  man  be  born  of  water  and  of  the  Spirit,  he  cannot  enter 
into  the  kingdom  of  God-" 

So  that  baptism  represents  a  very  important  work  and  is  closely 
associated  with  faith  and  repentance. 

BAPTISM  OF  THE  HOLY  GHOST 

The  other  mighty  companion  principle  that  was  emphasized  by  the 
Savior,  and  is  so  widely  neglected  in  the  world  today,  is  the  baptism  of 
the  Holy  Ghost.  How  beautiful,  how  important,  how  imperative  it  is ! 
I  fancy  I  hear  somebody  say:  "Baptism  of  the  Spirit?  What  does  that 
mean?  We  have  not  been  taught  such  a  principle.  It  is  not  in  our 
church  ;  we  have  not  seen  it  in  any  of  the  other  churches.  What  do  you 
mean  by  baptism  of  the  Spirit?"  Well,  Jesus  said  to  his  apostles,  as 
he  breathed  upon  them :  "Receive  ye  the  Holy  Ghost."  That  was  the 
baptism  of  the  Spirit,  which  is  sometimes  referred  to  as  baptism  by  fire 
and  the  Holy  Ghost.  When  the  aposles  laid  their  hands  upon  converts 
and  blessed  them  and  said  unto  them,  "Receive  ye  the  Holy  Ghost," 
they  did  actually  receive  this  divine  Spirit,  the  Spirit  of  truth  which 
was  to  be  to  them  a  special  gift  from  heaven,  to  enable  them  to  com- 
prehend the  word  of  God,  to  discern  things  of  a  spiritual  nature,  to 
bring  to  their  minds  the  remembrance  of  things  past,  things  present, 
and  to  show  them  things  to  come-  What  did  John,  the  apostle,  say  in 
respect  to  this  matter?   He  said  :    (I  John  5  :7-8.) 

"For  there  are  three  that  bear  record  in  heaven,  the  Father,  the 
Word,  and  the  Holy  Ghost :  and  these  three  are  one. 

"And  there  are  three  that  bear  witness  in  earth,  the  spirit,  and 
the  water,  and  the  blood :  and  these  three  agree  in  one." 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THREE  WITNESSES  IN   HEAVEN,  THREE  ON  EARTH 

Three  great  and  important  witnesses  in  heaven  and  three  upon  the 
earth.  This  doctrine  is  put  forth  in  a  little  greater  clearness  in  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price,  which  shows  that  the  ordinance  of  baptism  is  a 
profound  doctrine  of  the  gospel,  and  is  essential  to  salvation.  Let  me 
read  a  few  words  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters : 

"And  the  Lord  spake  unto  Adam,  saying:  Inasmuch  as  thy  children  are 
conceived  in  sin,  even  so  when  they  begin  to  grow  up,  sin  conceiveth  in  their 
hearts,  and  they  taste  the  bitter,  that  they  may  know  to  prize  the  good. 

"And  it  is  given  unto  them  to  know  good  from  evil;  wherefore  they  are 
agents  unto  themselves,  and  I  have  given  unto  you  another  law  and  commandment. 

"Wherefore  teach  it  unto  your  children,  that  all  men,  everywhere,  must 
repent." 

The  doctrine  of  repentance  is  here  greatly  emphasized : 

"Or  they  can  in  nowise  inherit  the  kingdom  of  God,  for  no  unclean  thing 
can  dwell  there,  or  dwell  in  his  presence;  for,  in  the  language  of  Adam,  Man 
of  Holiness  is  his  name,  and  the  name  of  his  Only  Begotten  is  the  Son  of  Man, 
even  Jesus  Christ,  a  righteous  Judge,  who  shall  come  in  the  meridian  of  time. 

"Therefore  I  give  unto  you  a  commandment,  to  teach  these  things  freely 
unto  your  children,  saying  : 

"That  by  reason  of  transgression  cometh  the  fall,  which  fall  bringeth  death, 
and  inasmuch  as  ye  were  born  into  the  world  by  water,  and  blood,  and  the  spirit, 
which  I  have  made,  and  so  became  of  dust  a  living  soul,  even  so  ye  must  be  born 
again  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  of  water,  and  of  the  Spirit,  and  be  cleansed 
by  blood,  even  the  blood  of  mine  Only  Begotten;  that  ye  might  be  sanctified 
from  all  sin,  and  enjoy  the  words  of  eternal  life  in  this  world,  and  eternal  life 
in  the  world  to  come,  even  immortal  glory." 

Thus  these  three  witnesses  are  mentioned  with  emphasis — the 
Spirit  and  the  water  and  the  blood. 

"For  by  the  water  ye  keep  the  commandment;  by  the  Spirit  ye  are  justified, 
and  by  the  blood  ye  are  sanctified ; 

"Therefore  it  is  given  to  abide  in  you ;  the  record  of  heaven ;  the  Comforter ; 
the  peaceable  things  of  immortal  glory;  the  truth  of  all  things;  that  which 
quickeneth  all  things,  which  maketh  alive  all  things ;  that  which  knoweth  all 
things,  and  hath  all  power  according  to  wisdom,  mercy,  truth,  justice,  and 
judgment." 

FULL  PLAN  OF  SALVATION  REVEALED  TO  THE  SAINTS 

Thus  we  have  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  these  important  doc- 
trines which,  in  connection  with  many  other  doctrines,  constitute  a 
complete  and  full  plan  of  salvation ;  and  this  plan  has  been  delivered  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints-  We  have  rendered  obedience  to  these  saving 
principles,  we  have  accepted  them  in  our  lives  and  have  shown  our  faith 
by  our  works. 

The  Lord  bless  you,  my  brethren. and  sisters  of  the  Church 
strengthen  you  in  faith  and  prepare  you  for  all  things  that  may  come  to 
pass  in  the  providences  of  the  Lord,  I  humbly. pray,  in  Jesus'  name. 
Amen. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


87 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

I  think  I  may  say  without  question  that  all  men  are  or  ought  to 
be  candidates  for  the  blessing  of  eternal  life  and  celestial  glory, 
seeking  to  know  what  is  necessary  to  be  done  in  order  to  obtain 
this  boon  and  blessing,  and  then  doing  all  in  their  power  to  ac- 
complish that  end. 

ETERNAL  LIFE  AND  CELESTIAL  GLORY 

The  gospel  teaches  us  what  is  the  meaning  of  eternal  life  and  celes- 
tial glory  and  how  it  may  be  obtained.  My  understanding  of  it  is  that  in 
order  to  obtain  eternal  life  and  celestial  glory,  we  must  receive  all  the 
ordinances  of  the  gospel,  keep  all  the  laws  and  commandments  of  God 
and  be  willing  to  consecrate  to  his  service  our  lives,  our  time,  our 
talents,  and  our  substance,  as  far  as  may  be  required  for  the  build- 
ing up  of  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God  upon  the  earth,  and  the 
establishment  of  righteousness,  looking  to  the  salvation  of  the 
souls  of  men  and  women. 

HOW  TO  GET  FAITH,  THE  MOVING  CAUSE  OF  ACTION 

To  meet  this  obligation  we  must  have  great  faith,  for  faith  is 
the  moving  Cause  of  all  action.  It  is  the  first  principle  of  revealed 
religion  and  the  foundation  of  all  righteousness.  It  is  a  gift  from 
God.  How  are  we  then  to  obtain  this  blessing,  for  faith  is  indeed  a 
blessing  from  God  to  those  who  enjoy  it?  We  must  try  to  live  in 
his  favor,  and  when  we  are  living  righteous  lives,  according  to  our 
conception  of  what  is  right,  being  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent, 
virtuous,  and  conscientious,  the  Lord  will  help  us  to  that  blessing 
as  to  all  other  blessings,  for  all  blessings  cometh  from  God.  The 
Savior  said  "to  search  the  scriptures,  for  in  them  ye  think  ye  have 
eternal  life,  and  they  are  they  which  testify  of  me."  The  scriptures  of 
the  Old  and  New  Testament  and  also  modern  scripture,  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  all 
testify,  not  only  of  the  Son,  but  of  the  Father  and  the  gospel  plan. 
We  ought  to  search  the  scripture.  I  believe  it  is  a  great  weakness 
of  the  membership  of  this  Church  that  we  do  not  search  the  scrip- 
tures more  than  we  do,  because  I  am  sure  if  we  would  do  so  we 
would  have  more  faith,  and  the  requirements  made  upon  us  by  the 
gospel  would  be  easier  for  us  to  comply  with.  The  Lord  has  said 
also  to  his  servants  that  faith  cometh  by  hearing  the  word,  and  so 
we  preach  and  so  the  scriptures  teach,  "how  beautiful  are  the.  feet 
of  them  that  bringeth  glad  tidings  and  publisheth  peace."  The  as- 
sistance of  the  Lord  and  the  gift  of  faith  cometh  from  him,  ,by  the 
inspiration  of  his  holy  Spirit,  to  those  who  are  thus  seeking  honestly 
for  truth  and  light.  We  must  have  faith  in  order  to  meet  the  re- 
quirements of  the  gospel  necessary  for  obtaining  eternal  life.  So  I 
speak  as  do  my  brethren,  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  all  who 
hear  may  be  led  to  an  investigation,  to  the  obtaining  of  faith,  to  the 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


engagirlg  in  good  works,  to  the  meeting  of  all  of  the  requirements 
of  the  gospel  that  they  may  obtain  that  boon  and  blessing  of  eternal 
life  and  celestial  glory. 

AN  APPEAL  PERTAINING  TO  FAITH  AND  RELIGION 

Now  I  desire,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  make  an  appeal  to 
you,  as  the  appeal  is  made  to  me,  in  regard  to  these  matters,  per- 
taining to  our  faith  and  religious  life.  The  young  people  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  have  adopted  as  their 
slogan  for  the  ensuing  year :  "We  stand  for  an  individual  testimony 
of  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith."  The  story 
that  Joseph  tells  of  his  experience  when  he  was  a  boy  fourteen  years 
of  age  appeals  to  different  people  in  different  ways.  Some  who 
are  more  credulous,  perhaps,  than  others,  and  whose  minds  are  not 
biased,  who  are  not  prejudiced  by  things  which  have  been  said 
against  Joseph  Smith,  against  this  people  and  against  this  work, 
receive  more  readily  the  testimony  of  Jesus  and  evidences  of  the 
truth  of  this  work.  Others  will  not  give  a  serious  thought  that 
they  might  understand  these  things. 

CONCERNING  JOSEPH  SMITH  THE  PROPHET 

I  want  to  refer  to  something  that  appeals  to  me,  and  I  think  it 
should  appeal  to  all  of  us  concerning  the  story  of  the  boy  Joseph 
Smith.  We  are  told  in  the  scripture  that  know.n  unto  God  are  all 
things,  even  the  end  from  the  beginning;  and  also  we  are  told  that 
the  Lord  doeth  nothing  but  he  revealeth  his  secrets  to  his  servants 
the  prophets.  The  scriptures  contain  the  things  of  God  as  he  has 
revealed  them  to  his  prophets.  The  scriptures  declare  an  apostasy 
to  take  place  in  the  Church,  and  they  also  declare  a  restoration,  when 
all  things  that  have  been  spoken  by  the  mouths  of  all  the  holy 
prophets  since  the  world  began  would  be  restored.  There  could 
be  no  restoration  had  there  not  been  an  apostasy.  Historians  tell 
us  very  minutely  of  how  an  apostasy  did  take  place.  The  thing 
that  men  and  women  of  the  world,  religionists,  ought  to  have  been 
looking  forward  to  is  a  restoration  of  the  gospel,  which  was  to  be 
in  the  last  days.  It  was  to  be  a  gospel  dispensation  of  the  fulness 
of  times. 

In  connection  with  these  statements  of  the  scripture,  I  have  in 
mind  what  the  Lord  revealed  to  his  servant  Abraham.  He  showed 
unto  Abraham  certain  intelligences,  spirits  of  men,  and  told  Abra- 
ham that  they  were  some  of  his  noble  ones  whom  he  had  chosen  to 
be  his  rulers,  and  said  he :  "Thou,  Abraham,  art  one  of  them.  Thou 
wast  chosen  before  thou  wast  born."  Now  the  kind  of  ruling  that 
Abraham  did  is  the  kind  of  ruling  the  Lord  had  in  mind,  servants 
of  the  Lord  and  servants  of  the  people,  and  it  is  most  natural  to  my 
mind,  that  the  Lord,  looking  forward  to  the  establishment  of  his 
Church,  and  the  restoration  of  the  everlasting  gospel  in  this  the 
Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times,  in  preparation  for  the  second 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


89 


and  glorious  coming  of  our  Lord,  would  reserve  one  of  the  greatest 
and  noblest  of  these  noble  ones  whom  he  showed  to  Abraham,  to 
head  his  work,  to  be  his  mouthpiece,  to  be  his  prophet,  to  restore 
the  gospel,  to  establish  his  Church,  and  to  do  all  things,  that  are 
necessary  in  this  the  dispensation,  at  least  in  the  starting  of  this 
great  work.  And  it  seems  reasonable,  too,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
in  the  light  of  the  scriptures  that  he  should  choose  a  boy  fourteen 
years  of  age  for  this  work,  for  we  read  in  the  scripture :  "Ye  see' 
your  calling  brethren,  how  that  not  many  wise  men  after  the  flesh, 
not  many  mighty,  not  many  noble,  are  called  ;  but  God  hath  chosen 
the  foolish  things  of  the  world  to  confound  the  wise,  and  God 
hath  chosen  the  weak  things  of  the  world  to  confound  the  things 
which  are  mighty,  and  base  things  of  the  world  and  things  whic! 
are  despised  hath  God  chosen :  yea,  and  things  which  are  not,  tc 
bring  to  naught  the  things  that  are.  That  no  flesh  shall  glory 
in  his  presence."  To  me  it  seems  most  consistent,  the  time  being 
ripe  and  the  Lord  desired  to  restore  the  gospel,  that  he  should  raisi 
up  one  of  those  noble  spirits,  take  him  in  young  boyhood,  educate 
him  and  prepare  him  for  the  mighty  work  that  he  had  to  accom- 
plish. So  I  believe  that  the  life's  work  of  Joseph  Smith  will  prove 
this  to  be  true.  The  Lord  did  take  him  in  hand,  and  from  the  time 
Joseph  had  his  first  vision  of  the  Father  and  the  Son,  every  step 
taken  was  in  the  narrow  way,  forward,  and  he  never  had  to  recede 
from  a  position  he  had  taken  or  a  principle  he  had  taught.  Besides, 
inasmuch  as  he  had  this  mighty  work  to  do  of  standing  at  the  head 
of  this  dispensation,  it  was  right  and  proper  that  he  should  have 
a  correct  conception  of  God  the  eternal  Father  and  of  his  Son, 
Jesus  Christ,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  for  the  faith  of  all  intelligent 
beings  is  centered  in  God.  In  order  to  have  a  perfect  faith  such 
as  will  lead  one  to  endure  all  that  is  necessary  for  him  to  endure 
in  this  life,  and  especially  when  called  to  so  high  a  calling,  he 
must  have  a  correct  conception  of  God,  and  of  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ.  And  this  he  could  not  obtain  from  the  religious  creeds ; 
for  example,  in  the  great  Church  of  England  of  which  my  grand- 
parents on  my  mother's  side  and  other  ancestors  for  generations 
were  members,  and  were  brought  up  in  that  faith.  The  first  article 
of  that  religion  reads : 

"There  is  one  living  and  true  God,  everlasting,  without  body, 
parts  or  passions ;  of  infinite  wisdom,  power  and  goodness,  the 
Maker  and  Preserver  of  all  things  visible  and  invisible,  and  in  the 
unity  of  this  Godhead  there  are  three  personages  of  one  sub- 
stance, power  and  eternity,  the  Father,  the  Son  and  the  Holy 
Ghost."  Three  personages,  one  substance,  nobody.  What  kind  of 
a  being  would  answer  that  description?  That  is  the  kind  of  ai 
God  our  parents  and  our  grandparents  were  taught  to  believe  in 
and  to  worship.  It  is  a  marvel,  when  Joseph  Smith  came  forth 
with  this  story  of  his  vision  and  the  declaration  that  the  Father 
and  the  Son  were  separate  individuals,  glorified,  immortal  beings, 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


and  exalted,  stating  that  they  had  appeared  to  him  and  had  told 
him  that  these  religionists  had  gone  astray,  and  that  he  was  going 
to  restore  his  true  gospel,  that  our  parents  accepted  the  story  and  believed 
in  it?  The  scriptures  are  replete  with  evidence  that  God  is  as  Joseph 
Smith  declared  that  he  appeared  unto  him.  Not  only  that,  but  men  who 
arc  not  tied  down  by  the  creeds  of  the  world  have  been  frank  in  their  ad- 
missions and  conclusions,  endorsing  the  scripture,  which  is  an  endorse- 
ment of  the  declaration  of  Joseph  Smith.  For  instance,  here  is  Henry 
Ward  Beecher,  one  of  the  greatest  preachers  that  the  world  has  known 
outside  of  the  true  Church  of  Christ.    He  said : 

"I  am  compelled  to  say  that  I  must  form  an  ideal  of  God  through  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ.  Christ  is  indispensable  to  me.  My  nature  needs 
to  fashion  the  thought  of  God,  though  I  know  him  to  be  a  Spirit, 
into  something  that  shall  nearly  or  remotely  represent  that  which 
I  know.  I  hold  before  my  eyes  a  glorious  form,  therefore;  but 
after  all  the  glory,  whatever  may  be  the  nimbus  and  the  effluence 
round  about  it,  it  is  to  me  a  glorified  form  of  a  glorified  man;  and 
I  therefore  fashion  to  myself  out  of  the  spirit  that  which  has  to  me, 
as  it  were,  a  divine  presence  and  a  divine  being;  namely,  a  divine 
man." 

THANKFUL  FOR  THE  HERITAGE  THAT  HAS  COME  TO  US 

Are  we  not  thankful  for  this  heritage  that  has  come  to  us,  we 
who  have  been  born  in  the  Church  and  have  been  taught  the  doc- 
trine of  the  gospel  of  Deity,  and  without  prejudice  we  have  been 
able  to  receive  the  doctrines  taught  by  Joseph  Smith,  for  not  only 
did  he  teach  us  of  the  personality  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Sbn,  but 
the  Lord  revealed  to  him  also  the  personality  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the 
other  personage  of  the  Trinity,  that  personage  whose  spirit  may 
dwell  in  our  hearts  if  we  are  prepared  to  receive  him,  and  thus  we 
become  the  temples  of  God,  which  we  should  keep  most  holy. 

JOSEPH  SMITH'S  WORKS  PROCLAIM  HIM  A  PROPHET  OF  GOD 

Now  I  see  my  time  is  about  gone ;  therefore,  I  will  bring  my 
remarks  to  a  close  by  saying  this,  that  the  works  of  Joseph  Smith, 
including  the  restoration  of  the  gospel,  the  establishment  of  the 
Church  and  kingdom  of  God,  all  in  fulfilment  of  the  predictions  of 
the  Prophet,  and  the  correcting  of  false  doctrines  and  teachings, 
in  fact  all  his  works  declare  him  a  prophet  of  God  by  the  rule  which 
the  Savior  laid  down,  that  we  should  know  them  by  their  fruits, 
and  also  by  the  logic  used  by  the  Apostle  Paul  to  the  Romans, 
speaking  of  the  Deity,  even  his  eternal  power  and  Godhead  are 
understood  by  the  things  which  he  made.  Joseph  Smith  by  his 
accomplishments  is  known  to  be  a  prophet  of  God,  and  I  do  know 
hirn  to  be  such,  and  this  work  to  be  the  work  of  God.  I  bear  this 
testimony  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


91 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 

FIFTY  YEARS  OF  SERVICE 

There  is  nothing  that  I  enjoy  more,  in  the  way  of  public  gatherings, 
than  the  General  Conferences  of  the  Church.  The  present  occasion 
has  for  me  a  special,  personal  interest,  in  that  it  marks  a  distinct  epoch 
in  my  life.  Fifty  years  ago  this  very  month,  at  the  General  Conference 
in  October,  1876,  I  was  called  upon  my  first  mission,  to  preach  and 
teach  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  And  I  have  been  preaching 
and  teaching  it  ever  since,  both  by  tongue  and  pen. 

THE  CITY  OF  WILLIAM  PENN 

My  field  of  labor,  during  the  fore  part  of  that  mission,  was  the 
state  of  Pennsylvania,  and  at  the  city  of  Philadelphia  a  World's  Fair 
was  in  progress,  similar  to  that  which  is  now  being  held  there.  It  was 
the  Centennial  Exposition.  The  United  States  was  a  hundred  years 
old,  and  the  city  of  its  birth  was  celebrating  the  event  in  befitting  style. 

It  was  about  four  o'clock  on  the  morning  of  a  bleak  November  day 
when  I  landed  in  the  City  of  Brotherly  Love.  I  had  sat  up  all  night 
on  the  train  from  Chicago,  not  having  sense  enough  to  hire  a  sleeping 
berth — nor  dollars  enough,  either — and  as  a  result  I  felt  somewhat 
"rocky."  I  had  no  sooner  alighted  upon  the  platform  than  a  dapper 
voung  fellow  stepped  up  to  me  and  said :  "Where  would  you  like  to 
go?" 

"To  the  North  Pennsylvania  Depot,"  was  my  reply — that  being  the 
point  where  I  was  to  take  a  train  for  the  northern  part  of  the  state. 
T  had  no  desire  to  visit  the  Fair,  not  being  in  a  sight-seeing  mood,  but 
only  intent  upon  reaching  my  destination  as  soon  as  possible. 

"Jump  into  my  hack,"  said  the  young  fellow,  with  the  air  of  the 
spider  to  the  fly,  "and  I'll  take  you  where  you  want  to  go." 

"How  much  will  it  cost?"  I  inquired. 

"Three  dollars." 

"Three  dollars  for  taking  me  from  one  depot  to  another!" 

"It's  several  miles  from  here,"  he  explained. 

"Where  is  the  street  car?" 

"Oh,  there's  no  street  car  running  at  this  hour." 

At  this  juncture  another  fellow  came  forward,  and  with  a  look  of 
"brotherly  love"  on  his  countenance  repeated  the  question  put  to  me 
by  his  "pal" :    "Where  did  you  say  you  would  like  to  go  ?" 

"To  the  North  Pennsylvania  Depot." 

"Better  go  with  the  young  man,"  he  philanthropically  (or  Phila- 
delphically)  advised. 

Still  I  hesitated,  and  was  then  offered  a  two-thirds  discount. 

But  just  at  that  moment  I  saw  a  policeman  standing  a  few  rods 
away,  and  remembering  a  word  of  counsel  given  me  before  leaving 
home,  to  the  effect  that  I  was  not  to  trust  every  Tom,  Dick  and  Harry 


02 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


who  might  offer  to  serve  me,  but  apply  for  information  to  someone  in 
uniform,  I  pushed  past  the  two  fellows  who  were  bent  upon  fleecing 
me,  and  approaching  the  officer  inquired: 

"Where  is  the  street  car  to  the  North  Pennsylvania  Depot?" 

"Right  around  the  corner,  sir,"  said  he.  And  sure  enough,  there 
it  was.  T  got  aboard,  paid  one  dime,  and  saved  two  dollars  and  ninety 
cents  by  remembering  and  acting  upon  that  word  of  wise  counsel.  Such 
was  my  introduction  to  the  City  of  William  Penn. 

It  is  something  of  a  coincidence,  interesting  to  me  if  to  no  one 
else,  that  as  I  enter  upon  another  half  century  of  service — all  of  which 
I  do  not  expect  to  spend  in  the  United  States,  nor  in  any  other  place 
this  side  of  the  Spirit  World — another  great  Exposition,  the  Sesqui- 
centennial,  is  in  full  blast  at  the  famous  old  town. 

THE  DECLARATION  OF  INDEPENDENCE 

One  hundred  and  fifty  years  ago,  on  July  4,  1776,  the  represen- 
tatives of  the  Thirteen  United  American  colonies,  which  up  to  that 
time  had  acknowledged  allegiance  to  Great  Britain,  met  in  Philadelphia 
for  the  purpose  of  declaring  those  colonies  free  and  independent.  They 
put  forth  the  immortal  document  known  and  revered  as  the  Declaration 
of  Independence,  the  preface  to  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States, 
which  the  Lord  has  declared  in  our  day  to  have  been  established  "by 
the  hands  of  wise  men"  whom  He  "raised  up  unto  this  very  purpose." 
The  signers  of  the  Declaration  were  fifty-six  in  number,  and  some  of 
the  sentiments  to  which  they  subscribed  their  names  are  as  follow : 

"We  hold  these  truths  to  be  self-evident — that  all  men  are  created 
equal  ;  that  they  are  endowed  by  their  Creator  with  certain  inalienable 
rights ;  that  among  these  are  life,  liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness. 
That  to  secure  these  rights,  governments  are  instituted  among  men, 
deriving  their  just  powers  from  the  consent  of  the  governed  ;  that  when- 
ever any  form  of  government  becomes  destructive  of  these  ends,  it  is 
the  right  of  people  to  alter  or  polish  it,  and  to  institute  a  new  govern- 
ment, laying  its  foundation  on  such  principles,  and  organizing  its  powers 
in  such  form,  as  to  them  shall  seem  most  likely  to  effect  their  safety  and 
happiness." 

"The  history  of  the  present  King  of  Great  Britain  is  a  history  of 
repeated  injuries  and  usurpations,  all  having  in  direct  object,  the  estab- 
lishment of  an  absolute  tyranny  over  these  States.  To  prove  this,  let 
facts  be  submitted  to  a  candid  world." 

Then,  after  enumerating  those  acts  of  usurpation  and  tyranny,  the 
Declaration  closes  thus: 

"We,  therefore,  the  Representatives  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  in  General  Congress  assembled,  appealing  to  the  Supreme 
Judge  of  the  world  for  the  rectitude  of  our  intentions,  do,  in  the  name 
and  by  the  authority  of  the  good  people  of  these  colonies,  solemnly 
publish  and  declare,  That  these  United  Colonies  are,  and  of  right  ought 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


to  be,  free  and  independent  States;  that  they  are  absolved  from  all 
allegiance  to  the  British  Crown,  and  that  all  political  connection  between 
them  and  the  State  of  Great  Britain  is,  and  ought  to  be,  totally  dissolved. 
*  *  *  And  for  the  support  of  this  Declaration,  with  a  firm  reliance 
on  the  protection  of  Divine  Providence,  we  mutually  pledge  to  each 
other  our  lives,  our  fortunes,  and  our  sacred  honor." 

AN  ACT  OF  HEROISM 

These  men  were  not  Latter-day  Saints — but  they  deserved  to  be. 
They  did  not  bear  the  Priesthood,  nor  did  they  have  the  fulness  of  the 
gospel,  with  the  gifts  and  powers  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  They  were  not 
members  of  the  Church  of  Christ— they  had  no  opportunity  to  be,  for 
it  was  not  then  upon  the  earth.  Yet  there  was  something  within  them 
that  made  them  willing  to  imperil  their  lives,  not  for  personal  profit, 
not  for  self-aggrandizement,  but  for  freedom  and  justice  and  the 
rights  of  man. 

Their  act  was  heroic,  thrilling.  Even  to  read  about  it  almost 
brings  the  tears  to  one's  eyes.  One  of  those  men,  after  signing  his 
name  and  laying  down  the  pen,  said:  "Now  we  must  hang  together,  or 
we  shall  all  hang  separately."  And  this  was  no  exaggeration.  Had 
they  failed,  they  would  have  been  executed  as  traitors  and  rebels.  It 
was  their  success  that  saved  them,  and  God  gave  them  that  success. 

JEFFERSON  AND  ROUSSEAU 

Thomas  Jefferson  was  the  author  of  the  Declaration,  though 
some  of  its  phrases  were  current  in  that  day — common  property.  Jef- 
ferson, heaven-inspired,  breathed  into  them  the  breath  of  life  and  made 
them  live  forever.    It  was  a  glorious  achievement. 

"All  men  are  created  equal."  This  phrase  is  Rousseau's — he  whose 
pen  kindled  the  fierce  fires  of  the  French  Revolution.  It  does  not 
mean,  of  course,  that  all  men  are  equal  in  intelligence  and  capacity,  any 
more  than  they  are  equal  in  stature  or  in  weight.  But  all  have  equal 
rights  to  life,  to  liberty,  to  the  pursuit  of  happiness,  and  are  entitled 
to  equal  opportunities  for  possession  and  promotion. 

That  is  America's  doctrine,  and  it  is  God's  doctrine,  too — yet  to 
be  emphasized  when  Zion's  children,  the  pure-in-heart,  become  equal 
in  temporal  as  in  spiritual  things,  and  are  of  one  heart  and  mind,  "every 
man  seeking  the  interest  of  his  neighbor,  and  doing  all  things  with  an 
eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God." 

AMERICAN  AND  EUROPEAN  IDEALS 

"Governments  derive  their  just  powers  from  the  consent  of  the 
governed."  That  also  is  God's  doctrine — the  doctrine  of  common 
consent,  exemplified  at  every  Church,  stake  or  ward  conference,  where 
the  names  of  the  presiding  authorities  are  regularly  placed  before  the 
people,  to  see  whether  they  will  sustain  them  as  their  leaders  and 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


teachers.    This  they  manifest  by  giving  or  withholding  their  consent. 

Compare  this  doctrine  with  the  notion  once  prevalent  in  European 
as  in  Oriental  countries,  that  the  king  or  hereditary  ruler  of  a  nation 
was  the  owner  of  that  nation,  the  proprietor  not  only  of  the  land,  but 
of  the  people  living  upon  it.  They  all  belonged  to  him  and  he  might 
dispose  of  them  as  he  saw  fit,  not  being  accountable  to  any  human 
power  for  his  actions.  When  a  reigning  princess  married  the  monarch 
of  another  realm,  all  her  dominions  and  all  her  subjects  went  with  her 
as  part  of  the  bridal  dowry. 

Such  was  the  case  when  the  Netherlands,  largely  Protestant  in 
religion,  passed  into  the  possession  of  the  Catholic  king  of  Spain,  who 
forthwith  undertook  to  convert  his  new  subjects  by  force,  using  for 
that  purpose  his  pillaging  and  slaughtering  armies.  The  Stuart  kings 
governed  England  as  if  it  were  their  personal  property,  and  the  contro- 
versy that  arose  brought  forth  a  Hampden  and  a  Cromwell,  and  cost 
King  Charles  the  First  his  head.  He  had  "lost  his  head"  a  little  while 
before.  The  German  Kaiser  habitually  referred  to  his  people  as  "my 
Prussians,"  and  even  in  democratic  England  the  king,  according  to 
the  custom  of  centuries,  still  speaks  officially  of  "my  armies,"  "my 
navies,"  "my  government." 

A  wonderful  and  startling  change  was  wrought  when  men  arose 
upon  these  Western  shores  who  dared  to  say  and  maintain:  We,  the 
people,  are  the  true  sovereigns.  We  choose  our  rulers,  and  they  are 
our  servants,  not  our  masters,  and  are  accountable  to  us  for  the  manner 
in  which,  they  govern  the  commonwealth  and  administer  the  laws 
enacted  by  our  representatives  for  the  general  welfare. 

LINCOLN  AND  JOSEPH  SMITH 

That  is  the  American  idea,  "government  of  the  people,  by  the 
people,  for  the  people,"  as  Lincoln  expressed  it  in  his  famous  Gettys- 
burg speech. 

And  nothing  proves  more  conclusively  that  Joseph  Smith,  God's, 
prophet,  was  a  real  and  true  American,  than  his  reply  to  one  who  in- 
quired of  him  how  he  managed  to  govern  a  people  made  up  of  so  many 
different  nationalities,  with  all  their  varied  languages,  customs  and 
traditions.  Said  the  Prophet:  "I  teach  them  correct  principles,  and 
they  govern  themselves." 

The  United  States  is  a  Republic,  in  which  the  people  are  recognized 
as  the  one  source  of  power.  The  Church  of  Christ  is  a  Theo-Democ- 
racy,  in  which  God  speaks  and  the  people  say  *'  Amen."  It  is  the 
Church  of  God  and  his  people— the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

THE  MISSION  OF  AMERICA 

Were  I  to  say  that  the  founders  of  this  Nation  builded  better  than 
they  knew,  few  if  any  would  question  the  statement.  But  if,  in  addition 
to  that,  I  should  voice  my  conviction  that  this  great  Government  was 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


95 


established  purposely  to  favor  the  coming  forth  of  the  Church  of 
Christ  in  this  dispensation — the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times — 
many  would  deem  my  declaration  presumptuous  and  even  preposterous. 
Great  movements  are  generally  so  regarded  in  the  beginning. 

It'  was  "presumptuous"  in  Columbus  to  pit  himself  against  the 
learned  ignorance  of  his  age,  and  proclaim  the  earth  round,  when  publir 
opinion  held  it  to  be  square  and  flat  or  shaped  like  a  cheese.  But  his 
"presumption"  led  to  the  discovery  of  the  Western  Hemisphere  and  the 
founding  of  the  mightiest  nation  of  modern  times.  It  was  "presumptu- 
ous" for  the  American  colonies  to  declare  their  independence  and  array 
themselves  against  the  militant  might  of  the  British  Empire.  But 
diey  succeeded,  and  their  "presumption"  was  swallowed  up  in  victory, 
amid  the  thunders  of  the  world's  applause.  In  like  manner  it  may  look 
presumptuous  for  a  little  handful  of  people,  numbering  only  half  a 
million  all  told,  to  claim  that  a  nation  originally  of  three  millions  and 
now  of  one  hundred  and  ten  millions,  was  founded  for  the  express 
purpose  of  furthering  their  God-given  mission  of  preparing  the  way 
before  Messiah's  second  advent.  But  when  the  Kingdom  of  Heaven  pre- 
vails, and  Christ  is  reigning  in  person  over  a  glorified  planet,  such  a 
claim  will  not  be  considered  presumptuous,  preposterous,  nor  at  all 
out  of  the  way. 

All  great  builders  build  better  than  they  know.  Some  realize  in 
part,  but  others  not  at  all,  that  they  are  instruments  of  Deity,  used  for 
carving  out  his  sublime  and  beneficent  purposes. 

ALEXANDER   THE  GREAT 

Passing  by  the  patriarchs,  the  prophets  and  the  apostles  of  ancient 
times — all  of  whom  helped  to  prepare  the  way  for  this  last  and  greatest 
of  the  gospel  dispensations ;  and  dismissing  with  a  word  such  characters 
as  Nebuchadnezzar  and  Cyrus — the  former  referred  to  in  sacred  writ 
as  the  Lord's  "servant,"  and  the  latter  as  his  "anointed" — let  us  take 
as  an  example  Alexander  the  Great. 

When  I  was  a  child  I  was  taught  to  sum  up  this  great  man's  career 
by  saying:  "He  conquered  the  world,  but  could  not  conquer  himself, 
and  died  a  drunkard  at  the  early  age  of  thirty-two."  But,  I  have  since 
learned  that  Alexander  did  something  more,  which  is  not  often  referred 
to — I  don't  know  why",  since  it  is  quite  as  important  as  a  dissertation 
on  the  wine  cup  and  the  evils  of  intemperance.  Alexander's  conquests 
carried  the  Greek  language  as  far  as  the  borders  of  India,  and  that  is 
the  language  into  which  the  New  Testament  was  afterwards  translated. 
Thus  the  Macedonian  conqueror  paved  the  way,  not  consciously,  but  as 
an  instrument  of  Providence,  for  the  subsequent  promulgation  of  the 
gospel.  While  building  for  himself  an  empire  that  was  destined  to 
perish  with  his  passing,  he  helped  to  lay  the  foundations  of  the  King- 
dom that  shall  stand  forever. 

Dean  Farrar,  in  his  Life  and  Work  of  St.  Paul,  says :  "The 


96 


( i  E  XERAL  CONFERENCE 


immense  field  covered  by  the  conquests  of  Alexander  gave  to  the 
civilized  world  a  unity  of  language,  without  which  it  would  have  been, 
humanly  sneaking,  impossible  for  the  earliest  preachers  to  have  made 
known  the  good  tidings  in  every  land  which  they  traversed." 

McCabe  the  historian  dilates  upon  the  same  fact  as  follows: 
"Alexander  was  no  vulgar  conqueror,  and  his  title  of  Great  does  not 
rest  simply  upon  his  conquests.  *  :;:  :|:  Wherever  he  went  he  left 
the  Greek  language  and  some  portion  of  Greek  culture,  as  a  priceless 
legacy  to  the  countries  through  which  he  passed.  This  universal  spread 
of  the  Greek  tongue  was  all  powerful  in  drawing  the  nations  of  the  old 
world  into  a  closed  and  more  intimate  contact  with  one  another.  Greek 
became  the  language  of  commerce  as  well  as  of  the  court.  At  a  later 
period  the  Hebrew  Scriptures,  translated  into  Greek,  were  made  ac- 
cessible to  the  whole  world,  and  the  way  was  thus  paved  for  the  mission 
of  him  of  whom  these  Scriptures  testified," 

"God  moves  in  a  mysterious  way, 
His  wonders  to  perform." 

rome's  unconscious  service  to  christ 

Dean  Farrar  again:  "The  rise  of  the  Roman  Empire  created  a 
political  unity  which  reflected  in  every  direction  the  doctrines  of  the 
new  faith.  *  *  *  The  gospel  emanated  from  the  capital  of  Judea ; 
it  was  preached  in  the  tongue  of  Athens;  it  was  diffused  through  the 
empire  of  Rome;  the  feet  of  its  earliest  missionaries  traversed  the 
solid  structure  of  undeviating  roads  by  which  the  Roman  legionaries — 
'those  massive  hammers  of  the  whole  earth' — had  made  straight  in  the 
desert  a  highway  for  our  God.  Semite  and  Aryan  had  been  unconscious 
instruments  in  the  hands  of  God  for  the  spread  of  a  religion  which,  in 
its  first  beginnings,  both  alike  detested  and  despised." 

THE  DIVINE  PURPOSE 

In  due  time  came  Columbus,  impelled  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to 
cross  the  mighty  waters  surging  between  European  and  American 
shores.  To  what  end?  To  prove  the  earth  round,  and  reach  India  by 
sailing  west?  Yes,  that  was  Ms  motive.  But  the  "Divinity  that  shapes 
our  ends,  rough  hew  them  as  we  will,"  had  a  higher  purpose  in  view, 
to  which  the  comparatively  small  objective  of  the  Genoese  explorer 
was  but  tributary. 

The  unveiling  of  a  hidden  hemisphere,  the  discovery  of  the  Land  of 
Zion,  the  predestined  theatre  of  wonderful  events  in  the  last  days, 
events  connected  with  the  winding  up  of  the  Lord's  work  upon  this 
planet — the  Land  where  the  New  Jerusalem  is  to  rise,  unto  which 
Christ  will  come  as  King  of  kings,  to  usher  in  the  reign  of  peace  and 
right.    This  was  God's  purpose,  accomplished  through  Columbus. 

The  lovers  of  liberty  who  followed  in  his  wake  and  were  actuated 
by  the  same  Spirit,  as  a  further  preparation  for  the  great  Latter-day 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


97 


Development  founded  upon  this  North  American  continent  a  nation, 
the  mightiest  on  earth,  under  whose  protecting  aegis,  the  constitutional 
guarantee  of  religious  freedom,  the  Church  of  God  came  forth,  to  be 
nurtured  unto  the  complete  fulfilment  of  its  destiny. 

ISRAEL  AND  THE  GENTILES 

Did  the  American  patriots  who  framed  and  signed  the  Declaration, 
who  established  the  Constitution  and  laid  the  foundations  of  this  mighty 
commonwealth,  realize  that  they  were  bringing  to  pass  the  prediction's 
of  American  prophets  and  the  words  of  Jesus  Christ  concerning  the 
Gentiles  upon  this  land  ?  No  ;  for  the  record  of  those  divine  utterances 
was  yet  slumbering  in  the  earth,  awaiting  the  set  time  for  coming 
forth.  Nor  do  the  Gentile  nations  of  today  realize  that  with  then- 
ships  and  railroads  and  other  means  of  transportation  and  communica- 
tion, they  are  helping  to  gather  scattered  Israel  in  fulfilment  of  ancient 
prophecy :  "They  shall  fly  upon  the  shoulders  of  the  Phillistines  toward 
the  West." 

THE  GLORIOUS  FUTURE 

Columbus  built  better  than  he  knew.  Wyclif  fe,  Luther,  the  reform- 
ers, explorers  and  conquerors  all,  as  well  as  the  founders  of  this  Nation, 
did  likewise.  And  even  the  Latter-day  Saints,  with  all  their  knowledge 
of  divine  plans  and  purposes,  revealed  from  heaven,  to  enable  them  to 
execute  another  phase  of  God's  "marvelous  work  and  wonder,"  have 
no  adequate  conception  of  its  future  greatness  and  glory. 

Nor  is  it  necessary  that  we  should  have,  at  this  time.  Well  for  us 
if  we  diligently  discharge  the  duty  of  the  present  hour,  and  patiently 
bide  the  time  of  Him  whose  omnipotent  and  unerring  hand  is  guiding 
the  Cause  of  Christ  to  its  glorious  consummation. 

ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

I  am  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  with  you  in  this  con- 
ference of  the  Church,  and  to  be  associated  again  with  ,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  with  my  family,  after  our  absence  for  nearly  a  year 
in  South  America.  To  me  this  has  been  indeed  a  wonderful  conference 
gathering.  I  have  been  very  much  interested,  and  my  faith  and 
testimony  have  been  strengthened  in  the  instructions  and  teachings 
that  have  come  to  us  from  those  who  have  spoken. 

I  have  been  led  to  reflect  that  we  are  indeed  a  distinctive  and  a 
wonderful  people,  and  that  there  is  nothing  like  our  organization  and 
our  institution  anywhere  else  in  all  the  world,  so  far  as  I  have  been 
able  to  come  in  contact  with  things  in  the  world. 

Our  trip  into  South  America  brought  to  my  attention  many,  many 
things  that  were  new  to  me.  It  seemed  that  we  were  in  another  world, 
and  I  observed  the  practices  and  the  customs  of  the  peoples  of  the 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


countries  where  we  went  with  a  desire  to  learn  and  to  see  things  from 
their  viewpoint.  We  came  in  contact  with  people  who  believed  dif- 
ferently religiously.  I  will  say  in  regard  to  them  that  I  encountered 
a  sincerity  that  is  very  commendable,  upon  their  part,  in  the  faith  that 
they  have  in  God,  as  they  understand  him,  and  in  their  religion,  or 
their  gospel,  as  it  is  taught  to  them,  and  as  they  have  believed  in  it, 
and  their  fathers  before  them  for  many  years.  But  I  will  say  that 
after  this  review  I  came  back  with  the  conviction  stronger  than  ever 
in  my  mind  that  we  are  a  people  apart  from  the  world,  and  although  I 
have  seen  much  that  is  good  and  much  that  is  commendable  in 
the  religions  and  in  the  practices  of  the  people  of  the  world,  I  had  in  my 
heart  a  spirit  of  thankfulness  which  I  cannot  express,  that  my  lot  has 
been  cast  with  a  people  who  know  that  we  have  the  truth  of  the  ever- 
lasting gospel  restored  to  us,  that  there  is  no  uncertainty  in  our  minds, 
that  we  can  go  forward  with  confidence  and  work  out  our  salvation 
in  our  Father's  kingdom,  knowing  that  we  are  on  the  right  track. 

It  has  been  to  me  a  source  of  joy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
bear  my  testimony  of  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  to  the  people  of 
South  America.  As  I  listened  to  Elder  Ballard's  report  of  our  trip,  my 
mind  was  led  to  reflect  upon  the  saying  of  the  Savior,  wherein  he  said : 
"Suffer  the  little  children  to  come  unto  me,  and  forbid  them  not."  1 
have  had  joy  that  is  unspeakable  in  associating  with  little  children  in 
these  foreign  nations,  and  my  heart  has  gone  out  to  them.  We  asked 
them  if  they  belonged  to  any  church  and  invariably  they  say :  "Yes." 
I  have  asked  them,  "What  do  you  believe?  What  are  your  teachings? 
Do  you  pray?"  And  brethren  and  sisters,  that  which  is  commonplace 
with  our  children,  taught  to  us  from  infancy,  is  lacking  in  the  lives  of 
these  other  children.  I  wish  that  each  one  here  could  see  the  faces 
of  those  little  foreign  children  light  up  when  we  carry  over  to  them 
the  things  that  seem  most  common  to  us.  When  we  taught  them 
how  to  pray,  when  we  taught  them  how  to  sing,  when  we  rehearsed 
to  them  the  stories  of  the  Savior,  and  the  great  love  he  had  for  mankind, 
and  the  great  works  that  he  did  among  the  children  of  men,  we  found 
their  eyes  wide  open  and  their  mouths  agape,  light  in  their  countenances 
and  joy  manifesting  itself  from  the  depths  of  their  souls,  for  the  truths 
we  were  able  to  teach  them.  And  they  have  said :  "We  have  never 
known  these  things."  It  is  remarkable  to  have  the  opportunity  of 
carrying  them  to  our  Father's  children  who  have  been  left  in  spiritual 
darkness  through  the  systems  in  which  they  believe.  Then,  too,  the 
children  are  not  all  small  as  pertaining  to  the  affairs  of  the  kingdom 
of  our  Father  in  heaven.  The  adults  are  children.  W,e  find  them  as 
such,  and  it  has  been  a  joy  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  able  to 
assist  in  teaching  these  adult  children  of  our  Father  in  heaven  the 
truths  they  confess  to  us  have  brought  the  greatest  joy  that  they  have 
felt  in  their  lives.  I  recall  the  people  that  Elder  Ballard  referred  to 
yesterday,  when  they  first  came  to  our  gathering,  two  Italian  men 
came  first,  out  of  curiosity,  I  think.    They  had  been  in  the  United 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


99 


States  a  little  while,  many  years  ago,  and  they  learned  that  we  Americans 
were  holding  services  in  their  vicinity.  They  came  to  our  meetings, 
but  they  knew  nothing  about  our  religion.  They  knew  nothing  about 
the  Bible-  They  wished  to  get  the  scriptures,  and  we  obtained  them  foi 
these  men.  After  attending  our  meetings  for  some  time,  and  hearing 
us  try  to  teach  the  children  to  pray  in  Sunday  school,  one  of  the  men 
came  to  me  and  said :  "Can  you  get  me  a  prayer  book,  so  that  I  can 
pray,  too?"  I  explained  to  him,  as  best  I  could,  that  we  do  not  pray 
out  of  books,  but  just  like  a  child  would  ask  its  father  for  what  it 
wants,  we  ask  our  heavenly  Father  for  the  things  that  we  alone 
know  that  we  need.  "Well,"  he  said,  "I  have  been  a  member  of  a 
church  all  my  life,  but  I  have  never  been  taught  to  pray  that  way.  I 
must  confess  to  you  that  I  don't  know  how  to  begin.  Won't  you  men 
do  me  the  favor  to  come  to  my  house  some  night  when  I  am  home 
from  work  and  teach  me  and  my  family  how  to  pray  ?"  It  was  one  of 
the  greatest  opportunities  that  has  ever  come  to  me  in  my  life,  my 
brethren  and  sisters.  I  went  with  him,  and  we  knelt  around  his  family 
altar,swith  his  wife  and  children  and  with  the  other  man  whose  family 
was  left  back  in  Italy,  and  who  is  struggling  hard  to  get  means  to  bring 
them  over  there.  We  were  able  to  teach  them  how  to  pray,  how  to 
ask  a  blessing  upon  the  food,  and  to  thank  God  for  those  commonplace 
blessings  that  we  always  thank  him  for,  and  think  very  little  about  tht! 
great  blessing  that  we  have  in  knowing  how  to  do  those  things. 

I  wish  you  could  see  how  that  man's  faith  grew.  I  wish  that  you 
could  realize  and  visualize  as  we  did,  who  were  there,  how  things  seemed 
to  open  up  and  unfold  to  him  and  his  companions  in  that  home.  Before 
we  left  there,  he  said :  "I  am  willing  to  forsake  all  you  say  is  wrong, 
for  I  have  an  evidence  and  a  testimony  that  has  come  to  me  that  you 
have  brought  the  truth  into  this  land  of  South  America." 

"Well,"  I  said,  "prepare  yourself,  quit  your  tobacco,  and  do  a 
number  of  other  things,  and  when  the  proper  time  comes  these  elders 
that  are  left  here  will  admit  you  into  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  oi 
Latter-day  Saints,  through  the  door  of  baptism."  Just  before  leaving 
El  Paso  I  had  a  letter  from  Elder  Sharp,  who  labored  with  me  in 
Mjexico  City,  and  who  is  now  in  South  America,  stating  that  those  two 
men,  a  boy  fourteen  years  of  age,  and  the  wife  of  one  of  the  men,  had 
come  into  the  Church  through  baptism,  and  he  said  to  me :  "Brothei 
Pratt,  I  never  have  seen  so  much  joy  shine  in  the  faces  of  men  and 
women  in  all  the  wide  world  as  there  is  in  the  lives  of  those  people 
since  they  have  joined  the  Church.  This  dear  brother  said  to  me: 
'I  would  rather  lose  all  I  have,  and  give  my  life,  than  to  lose  faith  in  the 
gospel  that  has  been  brought  to  us  in  this  land  by  you  missionaries'.' 
"Suffer  little  children  to  come  unto  me,"  the  Savior  said,  and  we  as  a 
people  who  have  his  authority  have  a  very  great  responsibility,  and  an 
obligation  to  carry  to  the  many  millions  of  our  Father's  children  in 
the  world  the  tidings  of  which  they  are  ignorant. 

I  agree  with  Brother  Ballard  that  my  conception  of  our  Father's 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


children  has  been  enhanced  and  widened,  in  my  contact  with  Latin 
people.  I  was  prejudiced  against  them  in  a  degree.  My  contact  with 
them,  in  association  with  the  Lamanite  people  in  Mexico,  made  me  so. 
They  were  the  conquerors  of  the  people.  They  had  brought  them  down 
to  where  they  are.  I  confess  that  I  had  a  prejudice  against  them,  but 
that  prejudice  has  all  been  removed,  and  I  feel  happy  that  I  can  include 
them  among  our  Father's  children  who  are  heirs  to  salvation,  through 
the  gospel  that  he  has  restored  through  Joseph  Smith.  And  as  our  last 
speaker  said,  I  am  willing  to  agree  that  even  the  conquest  of  Mexico 
and  the  conquest  of  Guatemala  and  Central  America  and  Peru,  and  the 
rest  of  South  America,  at  the  hands  of  those  ruthless  Spaniards  who 
brought  so  much  misery,  and  who  have  brought  so  much  suffering  in 
the  wake  of  that  conquest  might,  after  all,  be  overruled  for  good,  for 
at  least  it  has  prepared  a  way  through  which  we  can  reach  those  people 
by  having  given  to  them  a  common  language,  the  Spanish  language, 
where  before  innumerable  tribal  languages  existed  that  would  have  been 
almost  ■  impossible  for  us  to  acquire  in  order  to  preach  the  gospel 
to  those  people.  I  am  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  the  participation  that 
I  have  had  in  opening  up  this  new  mission.  I  am  desirous  to  continue 
to  serve  in  any  capacity  where  I  may  be  called  to  labor. 

I  leave  with  you  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  know 
that  God  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  I  know,  as  well 
as  I  know  anything  in  all  this  wide  world,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a 
prophet  of  God,  and  that  he  was  raised  up  to  restore  and  to  establish  this 
great  gospel  in  this  day,  age  and  dispensation  in  which  we  live,  I  know 
that  if  I  live  faithful  and  true  to  the  teachings  of  this  gospel,  I  will 
work  out  for  myself  a  salvation  and  an  exaltation  in  the  celestial  king- 
dom of  our  Father  in  heaven.  I  know  that  this  is  true  for  you  and 
for  my  family,  and  for  me,  and  for  all  whom  I  love.  I  know  that  if 
it  is  preached  to  the  people  of  the  world  who  know  it  not,  and  they 
accept  it,  it  will  result  in  the  same  to  them,  for  this  gospel  is  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation  unto  all  who  believe  it ;  and  those  who  believe  it 
will  obey  it.  The  Lord  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  help 
us  all  to  serve  him  to  the  end,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

After  the  meeting  this  morning  I  was  informed  that  hardly  any 
of  the  audience  heard  what  Brother  Widtsoe  said.  Yesterday  we  had 
a  very  large  machine  here  to  emphasize  what  we  were  saying,  and  the 
one  we  have  today  lis  not  so  good,  so  ,far  as  the  sound  is  concerned. 
It  was  suggested  that  if  I  move  this  machine  in  front  of  me  you 
could  hear  much  better.  Did  my  voice  sound  louder  the  last  minute? 
(Answer  from  voices  in  the  audience:   Yes,  yes.) 

We  will  ask  the  speakers  to  face  the  machine  and  maybe  that  will 
help.  Somebody  sent  word  that  they  were  not  hearing  Brother  Claw- 
son.    He  then  raised  his  voice  and  we  all  heard  him,  so  I  understand. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  101 


The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "O  say  what  is  truth  ?" 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  George  E.  Browning,  of 
the  Weber  stake. 

The  conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


AETERNOON  SESSION 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

Promptly  at  2  o'clock  the  opening  hymn  was  announced,  and  the 
congregation  sang,  "High  on  the  mountain  top." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  William  F.  Webster,  of  the  Wayne 
stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the 
day  of  salvation." 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  very  much  desire  that  the  few  moments  I  occupy  may  be  profitable 
to  you,  and  to  that  end  I  ask  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers,  that 
my  mind  may  be  touched  by  the  power  of  the  Lord  to  say  those  things 
that  he  would  have  you  hear. 

We  have  had  much  in  the  way  of  instruction.  Many  delightful 
discourses  have  been  delivered  here.  We  have  been  edified  under  the 
influence  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  I  feel  grateful  to  be  here.  I 
rejoice  with  you  that  we  are  permitted  to  meet  under  such  favorable 
conditions  and  to  enjoy  those  things  which  our  heavenly  Father  would 
have  us  hear. 

GREAT  PRIVILEGES  ENJOYED 

Today  throughout  the  world  there  are  millions  of  our  Father's 
children  who  would  give  all  they  possess  if  they  could  be  present  to 
hear  the  instructions  that  we  have  received  here.  There  are  millions 
who  have  no  conception  of  the  purposes  of  our  heavenly  Father  in 
placing  them  here  upon  the  earth,  yet  we  have  been  so  favored  that  we 
not  only  have  the  instructions  that  were  given  to  ancient  Israel,  but 
we  have  information  that  was  given  to  us  in  this  latter  day  in  addition. 
There  is  no  doubt  in  the  mind  of  a  Latter-day  Saint  who  has  received  a 
testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  mission  of  Christ  our  Lord.  That  is 
fundamental  to  us  in  building  our  hope  for  eternal  life.  We  believe  in 
God  the  Eternal  Father  and  we  believe  that  Jesus  Christ  was  the 
manifestation  of  God  in  the  flesh,  his  Only  Begotten  Son;  and  we 
believe  in  the  Holy  Ghost  and  the  power  that  it  manifests  unto  those 
who  seek  to  do  the  will  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  This  belief  is  funda- 
mental with  us,  and  it  leaves  us  in  the  position  of  children  of  God. 
We  are  the  children  of  our  heavenly  Father.  He  is  the  Father  of  our 
spirits. 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


OUR  PRE-EXISTENCE 

We  lived  before  we  came  here  and  our  birth  into  this  world  was 
the  reward  of  having  kept  our  first  estate.  When  we  were  born  we 
received  a  physical  tabernacle  without  which  we  could  not  be  exalted  in 
the  presence  of  our  heavenly  Father.  It  was  necessary  for  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ  to  be  born  into  the  world  in  order  that  he,  too,  might  have  a 
tabernacle  like  unto  the  one  that  his  Father  has.  We  dwell  here  upon 
this  earth  realizing  that  we  are  indeed  the  children  of  God,  knowing 
that  he  prepared  this  earth  particularly  for  those  who  dwell  upon  it, 
that  he  has  placed  upon  it  those  things  that  are  necessary  to  sustain 
life  and  make  all  men  and  women  happy,  as  far  as  the  creature  comforts 
of  life  are  concerned.  We  should  take  advantage  of  the  opportunities 
he  has  given  us  so  abundantly. 

PURPOSE  OF  OUR  EARTH  LIFE 

We  are  placed  here  and  instruction  has  been  given  us.  We  are 
informed  that  we  will  not  be  held  responsible  for  the  sin  of  Adam,  but 
that  we  will  be  held  responsible  for  our  own  sins.  The  atonement  of 
Jesus  Christ  removed  from  us  the  responsibility  of  atoning  for  the 
sin  of  father  Adam,  and  he  has  made  it  possible  for  us  to  live  here 
upon  the  earth,  and  in  due  time,  if  we  take  advantage  of  our  oppor- 
tunities, we  will  be  prepared  to  be  resurrected  from  the  dead  when  that 
time  shall  come.  There  is  no  doubt  in  the  mind  of  a  Latter-day  Saint 
as  to  the  purpose  of  our  earth  life.  We  are  here  to  prepare  ourselves 
and  develop  ourselves  and  qualify  ourselves  to  be  worthy  to  dwell  in 
the  presence  of  our  heavenly  Father.  We  must  learn  to  overcome  our 
passions,  our  evil  tendencies.  We  must  learn  to  resist  temptations-  That 
is  why  we  are  here,  and  in  order  that  we  may  more  perfectly  do  that 
the  gospel  has  been  restored  to  the  earth,  and  we  have  been  made  par- 
takers of  it,  and  we  have  the  strength  that  comes  to  us  as  a  result  of  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  We  not  only  have  the  resistance  of  an 
ordinary  individual,  with  the  limitations  that  such  an  individual  has 
who  has  not  a  knowledge  of  the  truth — we  have  equal  resistance  with 
him,  and  in  addition  the  resistance  which  comes  from  knowing  the 
truth  and  knowing  the  purpose  of  our  being. 

SCRIPTURE  STUDY  IMPORTANT 

Now  how  important  it  is,  with  that  understanding,  that  we 
phould  study  the  scriptures,  that  we  should  search  the  word  of  the  Lord. 
The  Savior  said,  "Search  the  scriptures ;  for  in  them  ye  think  ye 
have  eternal  life:  and  they  are  they  which  testify  of  me."  With  that 
understanding  we  are  not  left  as  the  world,  but  we  have  been  warned 
by  the  Redeemer  of  mankind  and  we  have  been  told  just  what  we 
must  do.  We  must  have  faith  in  God,  we  must  repent  of  our  sins, 
because  while  we  are  in  a  sinful  condition  we  are  in  no  way  prepared 
to  enter  into  the  celestial  kingdom,  and  we  are  informed  that  if  we 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


103 


cannot  keep  the  celestial  law  we  cannot  abide  a  celestial  glory.  The 
gospel  has  been  restored  in  these  latter  days  to  prepare-  men  for  the 
celestial  kingdom.  This  gospel  has  not-  been  given  to  qualify  men  for 
any  other  kingdom,  but  has  been  given  to  us  to  prepare  us  that  we 
may  dwell  upon  this  earth  when  it  has  been  celestialized,  when  our 
Redeemer  will  dwell  here  and  he  will  be  our  lawgiver  and  our  king. 

CARE  TO  BE  EXERCISED  IN  EVERY-DAY  LIVING 

Knowing  these  truths,  how  careful  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  ought  to 
be  to  live  every  day  of  our  lives  that  we  may  be  influenced  by  the  power 
of  the  Lord,  and  that  we  may  be  able  to  turn  aside  from  those  things 
that  have  a  tendency  to  break  down  our  power  to  earn  the  celestial 
kingdom.  The  fact  that  we  have  been  baptized  into  the  Church  is  not 
sufficient.  The  fact  that  our  names  are  on  the  Church  records  is 
not  sufficient.  The  Redeemer  himself  has  said  that  "not  every  one  that 
sayeth  unto  me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven, 
but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven."  That  is 
well  defined,  therefore  we  cannot  drink  with  the  drunken,  we  cannot 
debauch  our  lives,  we  cannot  be  dishonorable  in  our  dealings  with  our 
fellowmen  and  gain  celestial  glory.  We  must  keep  the  commandments 
of  our  heavenly  Father.  We  are  told  in  other  scripture  that  those 
who  do  not  keep  the  commandments  of  God  will  forfeit  their  right 
to  the  blessings  of  the  celestial  kingdom.  If  we  had  been  left  to 
speculate  on  these  matters,  if  we  had  been  left  without  suitable  infor- 
mation to  prepare  us  for  this  life  and  to  make  preparations  for  the  life 
to  come,  perhaps  we  might  be  indifferent  and  excuse  ourselves  as  the 
world  does.  They  do  not  understand,  but  for  those  who  have  been  made 
partakers  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  these  latter  days  there  is 
no  excuse  if  we  are  not  living  a  righteous  life.  We  have  been  fully 
taught,  we  have  observed  the  effects  of  righteousness  upon  the  lives  of 
others.  We  have  had  the  assurance  that  by  living  the  commandments 
of  God  happiness  will  be  our  portion  here,  and  that  this  will  be  the 
foundation  upon  which  we  will  build  for  eternal  happiness. 

DUTIES  OF  TEACHERS  IN  THE  CHURCH 

Throughout  the  stakes  and  wards  of  this  great  Church  there  are 
men  whose  duty  it  is  to  teach  these  principles.  We  send  into  the  world 
missionaries  by  thousands  to  proclaim  this  gospel.  There  is  no  charge 
made  for  this  service,  it  is  offered  to  the  world,  to  the  whole  human 
family  without  money  and  without  price.  It  is  so  important  that  people 
shall  understand  this  gospel  that  our  heavenly  Father  sent  his  Only 
Begotten  Son  into  the  world  to  teach  it,  and  he  died  that  we  might  live, 
that  we  might  be  resurrected  from  the  dead.  And  in  order  that  there 
might  be  a  well  defined  pathway  to  the  celestial  kingdom  he  organized  his 
Church  and  set  in  it  the  officers  that  were  necessary — apostles,  prophets, 
pastors,  teachers,  evangelists,  etc.    These  were  the  officers  that  were 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  be  maintained  in  the  Church.  One  of  his  disciples  is  recorded 
as  having  said  that  these  are  to  remain  in  the  Church  until  all  shall 
come  to  a  unity  of  the  faith.  Why  is  it  necessary  that  we  come  to 
a  unity  of  the  faith?  It  is  because  there  is  only  one  true  faith,  there 
is  only  one  true  gospel,  and  if  we  partake  of  some  other  gospel,  if  we 
devote  our  lives  to  work  for  some  other  god,  then  has  the  adversary 
taken  advantage  of  his  opportunities  and  destroyed  for  us  the  benefits 
that  our  heavenly  Father  intended  that  we  should  have.  So  the  gospel 
was  restored,  and  we  are  informed  what  we  are  required  to  do.  Not 
only  must  we  be  identified  with  this  Church  by  faith,  repentance,  bap- 
tism, and  the  laying  on  of  hands,  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  but  we 
must  live  every  day  of  our  lives  in  such  a  way  that  we  will  be  earning 
the  reward  of  celestial  glory.  The  man  who  violates  the  Sabbath  day 
loses  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  forfeits  this  companionship.  The  man 
who  violates  the  rules  and  regulations  that  govern  the  Church  forfeits 
that  sweet  influence  that  would  lead  him  eventually  into  the  presence 
of  our  heavenly  Father.  Knowing  that,  how  careful  we  ought  to  be  to 
teach  our  boys  and  girls,  and  to  teach  our  neighbors  the  things  that 
God  has  intended  that  they  should  know.  And  not  only  teach  by  word 
of  mouth  but  exemplify  our  teachings  in  the  lives  that  we  lead. 

MESSAGE  OF  THE  CHURCH   MUST  BE  PROCLAIMED  TO  ALL 

There  is  a  wonderful  group  of  men  and  women  in  this  Church, 
each  one  of  whom  has  come  out  of  the  world,  or  has  been  born  to 
those  who  have  come  out  of  the  world.  It  is  not  a  popular  thing  to 
be  identified  with  this  Church,  but  in  various  parts  of  this  earth,  in 
various  nations  of  the  earth,  where  the  gospel  has  been  taught,  it  has 
been  preached  by  men  possessing  the  same  authority  as  that  possessed  by 
the  disciples  of  old,  men  who  had  the  right  to  declare  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  that  this  is  the  latter  day,  that  our  heavenly  Father  is  preparing 
for  the  second  coming  of  his  Son  Jesus  Christ.  That  message  must 
be  proclaimed  in  all  the  world  before  the  end  comes,  and  that  duty- 
has  been  laid  upon  the  membership  of  this  Church,  and  to  that  end, 
in  order  that  men  might  do  it  properly  and  under  proper  direction, 
the  authority  of  the  Holy  priesthood  has  been  conferred.  Men  have 
been  ordained  and  set  apart  to  preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
they  leave  their  homes  and  their  loved  ones  and  they  travel  for  years 
among  the  children  of  men  and  divide  with  them  that  glorious  truth 
that  leads  to  eternal  life  in  the  celestial  kingdom  of  our  heavenly  Father. 

A  GREAT  OBLIGATION  IS  OURS 

What  manner  of  men  ought  we  to  be  in  the  darkness  that  sur- 
rounds this  earth,  in  the  uncertainty  that  exists  everywhere,  as  to  why 
we  live  and  where  we  are  going?  Our  heavenly  Father  has  taught 
this  gospel  to  us  in  great  plainness  in  this  day,  and  we  are  told  by 
one  who  lived  centuries  ago,  and  it  is  recorded  in  the  scriptures,  that 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


105 


"a  wayfaring  man,  though  a  fool,  need  not  err  therein."  We  have  that 
information  that  they  possessed,  and  in  this  latter  day  there  have  been 
added  to  it  the  testimony  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  testimony  of 
Joseph  Smith  and  the  revelations  that  the  Lord  gave  to  him,  supplement- 
ing the  things  that  we  already  possessed,  adding  to  the  information  that 
God  had  given  to  the  children  of  men,  to  the  end  that  we  might  be  pre- 
pared when  our  Redeemer  shall  come  to  dwell  here  upon  this  earth. 

Therefore,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  a  great  obligation  rests  upon 
us.  We  have  received  this  knowledge  and  we  may  possess  it  only  ou 
condition  that  we  keep  the  commandments  of  God.  A  man  may  know 
as  he  knows  that  he  lives  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  He  may  know  that 
this  is  the  gospel  which  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation ;  but  if  he 
transgresses  the  laws  of  God,  if  he  becomes  evil  in  his  life,  his  mind 
may  become  darkened  and  he  may  turn  away  from  that  faith  that  points 
directly  to  the  celestial  kingdom,  and  spend  his  time  along  by-ways  that 
will  only  lead  him  eventually  into  sorrow  and  distress,  and  that  will 
mean  that  he  has  failed  of  his  opportunities. 

THE  GREAT  NEED  OF  FAITH  AND  GOOD  WORKS 

With  that  obligation  resting  upon  us,  what  a  wonderful  thing  it 
is  that  we  are  able  to  declare  that  we  know  the  truth.  It  is  not  that 
we  reason  it  out  by  the  power  of  intellect  alone-  A  man  of  his  own 
thinking  cannot  find  out  God.  We  must  keep  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord,  we  must  follow  the  teachings  of  our  heavenly  Father,  we 
must  Jive  in  such  a  way  that  the  whispering  of  that  still,  small  voice  will 
come  to  us  and  will  indicate  to  us  the  truth. 

Today  as  I  realize  the  need  of  faith,  when  I  think  of  the 
multitude  of  our  Father's  sons  and  daughters  who  are  in  dark- 
ness, I  realize  that  each  of  us  ought  to  be  putting  forth  every 
possible  effort  to  carry  this  message  forward  if  possible  here  at  home 
and  abroad.  To  that  end  we  have  been  given  divine  authority,  so  that 
when  an  elder  of  this  Church  goes  into  the  world  he  does  not  go  to 
be  instructed  of  those  who  have  been  educated  in  the  seminaries  of 
learning  necessarily,  but  he  goes  with  the  information  he  may  possess. 
He  may  have  a  trained  mind,  he  may  possess  the  learning  that  he  has 
obtained  in  our  great  universities,  but  the  thing  that  he  possesses  that 
is  important  to  the  world  when  he  goes  out  to  teach  is  a  knowledge  that 
God  lives,  a  testimony  of  the  divine  mission  of  Jesus  Christ;  and  to 
that  end  we  have  been  called  and  chosen  and  set  apart.  And  as  a 
result  of  that  wonderful  gift  from  our  Father  in  heaven,  he  expects 
us  not  only  to  say  to  others :  Keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  but 
he  expects  us  to  keep  all  of  his  commandments  and  live  according  to  the 
laws  that  he  has  given  to  govern  his  Church.  For  that  purpose  we 
are  called  together  upon  the  Sabbath  day,  in  our  quarterly  conferences, 
and  our  general  conferences.  All  these  meetings  are  intended  to  keep 
us  in  touch  with  that  intelligent  Spirit  that  will  interpret  for  us  the 
things  that  are  necessary  for  us  to  know. 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


OUR  DUTY  TO  RAISE  A  WARNING  VOICE 

Now  today,  assembled  as  we  are,  if  we  were  like  all  other  de- 
nominations, we  might  seek  the  Lord  and  receive  his  blessings,  because 
every  man  that  does  good  in  the  world  receives  a  blessing;  we  might 
have  all  the  cardinal  virtues  and  make  them  our  own,  but  without  the 
power  of  God  and  the  authority  of  the  holy  Priesthood  it  is  not  possible 
for  men  to  attain  to  the  celestial  kingdom.  And,  knowing  that,  how 
gladly  we  ought  to  give  of  our  time  and  our  means  and  of  the  power 
that  the  Lord  has  bestowed  upon  us  to  raise  not  only  a  warning  voice, 
but  a  teaching  voice,  a  voice  of  love,  a  voice  of  kindness,  a  voice  of 
instruction  to  the  children  of  men,  and  deliver  our  message  in  such 
a  way  that  they  will  be  constrained  to  listen,  and  that  they  will  be 
anxious  to  know  whereof  we  speak.  Our  heavenly  Father  has  made  it 
possible  for  all  normal  people  in  this  world  to  know  the  truth  if  they 
will.  He  has  made  it  possible  for  every  man  and  every  woman  to 
receive  the  gospel  if  they  will.  We  have  our  agency.  Herein  is  the 
condemnation  of  man,  because  that  which  is  the  truth  has  been  plainly 
manifested  from  the  beginning.  Knowing  the  truth  how  anxious  we 
should  be  to  disseminate  that  truth,  how  gladly  we  should  give  of  the 
powers  that  we  possess  to  do  the  good  that  our  heavenly  Father  would 
have  us  do.  We  strive  for  the  things  of  this  earth  that  perish  and 
by  and  by  we  leave  those  things  behind,  but  if  there  has  been  burned 
into  our  souls  a  desire  to  serve  God  and  keep  his  commandments  by 
living  our  religion  and  teaching  it  to  his  children,  then  we  are  laying 
up  for  ourselves  eternal  riches  of  which  no  one  can  rob  us. 

This  testimony  has  come  to  me.  I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  I  know  that  this  is  the  latter  day.  He 
loved  the  world,  he  restored  the  gospel  and  he  sent  divine  personages 
here  upon  this  earth  to  renew  the  gospel  and  confer  the  divine  authority 
that  was  necessary  in  order  that  the  mission  that  we  had  given  to  us 
here  in  the  world  might  be  rounded  out  and  properly  fulfilled. 

OUR  SERVICE  SHOULD  BE  FAITHFUL 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  these  are  the  facts.  This  is  our  mission, 
this  is  our  opportunity,  and  the  Lord  has  promised  us  in  return  for 
availing  ourselves  of  this  opportunity  that  we  shall  have  eternal  life 
in  the  celestial  kingdom,  honor  and  glory  throughout  the  ages  of 
eternity.  When  we  go  to  our  various  homes  how  anxious  we  should 
be  that  our  houses  be  in  order ;  how  pleased  we  should  be  to  lead  our 
families  along  the  pathway  to  eternal  life ;  how  grateful  we  should  be 
to  the  Lord  that  he  has  given  us  this  information,  and  as  a  result  of  it 
we  ought  surely  to  be  an  example  to  all  the  world.  I  pray  that  that 
Spirit  which  will  enable  us  to  serve  faithfully  may  be  with  us,  that 
that  desire  to  do  good  may  overcome  the  temptations  that  are  placed 
in  our  way,  and  that,  wherever  we  go,  others  observing  our  good  works 
may  be  constrained  to  glorify  our  Father  who  is  in  heaven.    This  is 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


our  Father's  work.  It  is  not  a  militant  work,  but  it  is  a  work  of  love, 
and  with  the  help  of  our  heavenly  Father  let  us  make  it  what  he  intends 
it  should  be— the  glory  of  the  earth  and  the  means,  for  that  is  what  it 
is,  for  the  salvation  of  millions  of  his  children  who  have  not  yet  heard 
it,  by  reason  of  the  faithfulness  of  our  lives. 

That  peace  may  abide  in  our  hearts,  that  the  testimonies  that  we 
have  already  received  may  remain  with -us  and  be  added  to  by  reason 
of  righteous  lives,  and  that  in  the  end,  when  we  have  finished  our 
mortal  lives,  we  may  be  found  worthy  to  receive  the  reward  of  a 
permanent  home  in  the  celestial  kingdom  of  our  heavenly  Father,  in 
company  with  those  we  love,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 

Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may 
direct  what  I  may  say  this  afternoon.  There  have  been  so  many  good 
things  pass  through  my  mind  while  the  conference  has  been  in  progress, 
that  it  almost  seems,  at  this  present  moment,  that  everything  I  ever 
thought  of  has  been  in  the  past. 

I  am  very  grateful  for  the  testimony  that  has  come  to  me  through 
my  experience  in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  that  it  really  is  his  work  and 
that  it  is  not  a  work  of  man,  nor  any  set  of  men,  but  that  it  is  a  won- 
derful work  established  in  the  earth  for  the  bringing  about  of  the 
Lord's  purposes  concerning"  his  children  upon  the  earth. 

REALITY  OF  THE  MISSION  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH 

I  have  met  a  few  people  who  have  not  yet  a  full  understanding  oi 
the  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  They  declare  that  it  seems 
to  be  a  myth  or  something  that  they  cannot  comprehend,  something 
that  does  not  seem  a  reality.  But  to  me,  ever  since  I  was  a  small 
child  and  had  the  privilege  of  hearing  the  testimony  of  my  parents  and 
the  teachers  of  the  Church,  the  mission  and  life's  work  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  have  been  wonderful  realities.  I  picture  certain  import- 
ant instances  in  the  life  of  the  prophet  which  seem  to  be  more  impres- 
sive than  other  instances.  For  example,  the  occasion  of  his  annual 
visits  to  the  Hill  Cumorah,  and  in  fact  the  first  vision  of  the  Angel 
Moroni.  Up  to  that  time  all  of  the  artists  and  the  scientists  and  the 
teachers  of  the  world  pictured  to  us  that  an  angel  was  either  a  woman 
or  a  child.  But  here  a  man  appears  declaring  himself  to  be  an  angel 
of  the  Lord,  and  coming  directly  from  the  presence  of  the  Lord  in 
answer  to  this  boy's  prayer.  Joseph  said  that  he  was  frightened  at 
first.  Well,  I  think  most  of  us  would  be  just  a  little  frightened.  1 
fear  that  I  would  be  more  so  than  I  am  now.  This  angel  declarec 
that  he  was  a  man  who  once  lived  upon  this  earth,  and  that  he  ha<, 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


come  with  a  glorious  message  to  declare  to  this  young  man,  who  had 
desired  to  know  the  truth.  In  all  the  anxiety  of  his  heart  and  the 
earnestness  of  it,  he  had  gone  to  his  parents  and  friends  and  to  the 
ministers,  who  were  teaching  religion  so-called,  and  he  had  not  found 
satisfaction.  He  did  not  find  that  which  satisfied  his  heart,  until 
finally  he  went  to  the  Lord  and  received  a  satisfaction  that  was  won- 
derful beyond  our  power  at  times  to  appreciate.  For  the  Lord,  our 
Father,  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  descended  from  heaven  to  answer 
the  boy's  question  concerning  his  desire  for  the  truth,  and  this  was 
a  reality,  not  a  fancy  or  a  dream. 

Many  people  desired  and  attempted  to  destroy  that  testimony  and 
that  conviction  which  came  to  that  boy's  heart.  But  he  said  that  he 
knew  that  God  knew  that  he  had  seen  it,  therefore,  he  could  not  deny 
it,  it  was  to  him  a  reality.  It  was  a  part  of  his  life  and  he  could  not 
change  it  and  be  honest  with  himself  nor  with  the  Lord.  In  the  great 
anxieties  that  followed  the  years  in  his  great  mission,  to  fulfill  the 
great  destiny  of  his  life,  he  was  visited  upon  many  occasions  by  other 
heavenly  messengers,  and  they,  too,  were  a  reality  and  not  just  myths, 
or  dreams,  or  fancies. 

REALITY  OF  THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON 

After  this  angel,  called  Moroni,  had  explained  to  the  boy  during 
that  whole  night  many  important  things  pertaining  to  his  mission,  he 
showed  him  the  Hill  Cumorah,  in  which  were  deposited  the  plates  from 
which  was  translated  the  Book  of  Mormon.  This  reality  was  of  such 
a  character  that  the  next  morning,  or  perhaps  about  noon  time,  this 
young  man  went  to  the  place  called  the  Hill  Cumorah,  because  he  had 
seen  it  in  vision  the  night  before  and  that  early  morning  with  such 
completeness  and  such  plainness  that  he  went  directly  to  the  place 
which  was  shown  him  in  the  vision,  and  where  the  plates  were  depos- 
ited. And  with  some  kind  of  an  instrument  cleared  away  the  re- 
maining earth  that  covered  the  stone  which  covered  the  box;  and, 
after  he  had  removed  the  covering  of  the  stone  box  which  con- 
tained the  records,  like  any  curious  youth  or  man,  he  reached  for- 
ward in  an  attempt  to  take  from  the  sacred  box  its  contents,  when,  to  his 
astonishment,  he  heard  a  voice  forbidding  him,  and  telling  him  that  the 
time  had  not  yet  arrived  for  him  to  take  these  sacred  treasures,  and 
that  he  must  further  prepare  himself  by  a  course  of  waiting  and  prep- 
aration until  such  time  as  he  might  prove  himself  worthy  of  this  great 
responsibility. 

This  incident  brings  to  me  a  feeling  of  the  greatest  reality.  An 
angel  we  sometimes  think  of  as  being  mystical,  visionary  and  difficult 
to  understand  in  appearance.  But  this  was  a  reality,  a  person  who 
could  give  instructions  and  talk  as  one  man  talks  to  another. 

And  other  instances  of  this  character  have  so  impressed  me  with 
the  reality  of  the  mission  and  instruction  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


109 


that  it  is  today  a  part  of  my  very  being.  I  believe  it  with  all  my  heart, 
and  the  instructions  and  the  great  mission  that  have  come  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to  the  children  of  men  in  these  the  latter  days 
are  to  me  one  of  the  greatest  realities  that  come  to  us,  and  I  believe  in 
them  with  all  my  heart. 

TESTIMONY  OF  THE  KINDNESS  AND  REALITY  OF  GOD. 

The  principles  of  the  everlasting  gospel  which  have  been  pro- 
claimed to  us  during  this  conference  until  the  Latter-day  Saints  have 
been  very  well  instructed  pertaining  thereto ;  and  the  faith  and  de- 
votion of  men  and  women  who  are  earnestly  and  sincerely  striving 
to  carry  out  those  instructions  and  so  to  live  that  they  may  en- 
joy the  blessings  which  the  Lord  has  prepared  for  them — to  me  these 
are  a  wonderful  testimony  and  reality  of  the  kindness  and  mercy  of 
the  Lord.  I  am  very  grateful  for  the  association  that  I  have  enjoyed 
laboring  with  the  servants  of  the  Lord,  going  about  from  stake  to 
stake,  from  ward  to  ward,  and  conference  to  conference,  doing  what 
little  I  have  been  able  to  do  to  keep  the  work  going  and  to  encourage 
others  to  go  on  with  it. 

THE  REALITY  OF  THE  WORK  OF  THE  PATRIARCHS. 

I  was  very  much  impressed  yesterday  morning,  and  in  fact  during 
the  whole  day's  services  yesterday,  when  the  house  was  packed  to  over- 
flowing, men  and  women  standing  in  the  doorways  and  in  the  aisles. 
I  do  not  know  just  how  many  were  present,  but  I  made  this  compari- 
son :  In  just  the  few  brief  years  that  I  have  been  sustained  by  the  people 
as  one  of  the  general  authorities,  I  have  been  instrumental  in  the 
hands  of  the  Lord  in  administering  blessings  of  the  Lord  to  more 
people  than  were  in  the  tabernacle  yesterday  morning.  Of  course 
that  was  not  all  at  one  time  because  that  would  be  like  speaking  to 
them  all  at  once.  But  during  the  years  that  have  passed,  since  the 
conferences  and  the  Church  have  sustained  me  as  one  of  the  general 
officers,  16,006  people  have  had  blessings  recorded  in  my  office. 
That  gives  you  just  an  idea  of  the  reality  of  this  work.  Throughout 
the  stakes  of  the  Church  men  have  been  called  to  assist  in  this  im- 
portant work,  and  I  desire  to  bear  further  testimony  relative  to  the 
responsibility  that  has  come  to  these  men  as  well  as  the  responsibility 
that  has  come  to  me,  for  their  commission  is  of  the  Lord  just  the 
same  as  mine.  Their  commission  is  a  reality  and  it  is  of  the  Lord, 
just  the  same  as  the  commission  that  has  come  to  these  other  brethren. 
In  their  calling  it  is  just  as  important  as  my  calling  is  to  me  in  my 
place,  because  "it  is  the  work  of  God,  it  is  not  the  work  of  man.  Their 
commission  is  through  the  priesthood  of  God,  and  it  is  just  as  import- 
ant in  their  place  as  my  work  is  in  my  place,  and  I  would  like  to  en- 
courage the  Latter-day  Saints  to  give  greater  honor  to  the  men  who 
bear  the  Priesthood  at  home.    I  do  not  want  to  discredit  anything 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  I  might  do,  because  I  have  a  testimony  that  my  work  is  important. 
I  did  not  always  have  that  testimony.  There  was  a  time  when  I  doubt- 
ed it,  but  the  Lord  in  his  kindness  has  banked  up  testimony  after 
testimony  around  me  until  I  believe  I  can  almost  sympathize  with 
the  great  Patriarch  Job,  because  he  was  banked  up  all  around  with 
blessings  and  with  testimonies.  I  hope  I  shall  not  have  to  endure  what 
he  passed  through  in  order  to  prove  the  realities  of  those  testimonies. 
I  am  perfectly  satisfied  with  them  as  they  are,  and  I  hope  they  shall 
be  strengthened  through  my  further  devotion  to  the  work. 

PRIESTHOOD  SHOULD  BE  HONORED. 

I  should  like  to  encourage  all  men  who  bear  the  Priesthood  to 
honor  it  because  it  is  of  God ;  it  is  a  reality  and  a  power  that  is  not 
given  without  a  purpose  to  men.  I  have  faith  that  the  Priesthood 
of  God  has  been  given  to  men  for  service,  to  act  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  to  do  his  work ;  and  when  they  fail  to  serve  they  fail  to  get  his 
blessing.  So,  I  desire  that  the  members  of  the  Church  will  honor 
those  men  who  are  given  this  important  office  in  the  stakes  of  Zion, 
as  well  as  honoring  all  other  men  who  bear  the  Priesthood,  from  the 
president  of  the  Church  down  to  the  least  and  last  officer,  because  I 
am  satisfied,  beyond  the  shadow  of  a  doubt,  that  this  is  the  work  of 
God.  and  that  these  men  who  sit  before  me  and  those  who  sit  upon 
the  stand  today,  who  are  called  to  be  officers  and  leaders  in  the  Church, 
are  men  endowed  by  a  power  that  is  not  found  anvwhere  else  in  the 
world,  because  it  is  the  power  of  God  that  has  come  to  men  through 
the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  those  who  have 
succeeded  him. 

A  PRAYER  TO  BLESS  THE  CHURCH  AND  ITS  MEMBERS 

I  am  very  grateful  that  only  in  a  few  short  stens  I  sm  able  to 
trace  back,  throusrh  the  lives  of  those  who  have  received  this  Priesthood, 
that  power  which  has  been  given  to  me.  I  was  ordained  to  the  Dower 
T  hold  todav  by  the  president  of  the  Church,  the  prophet  Toseph 
F.  Smith.  He  was  ordained  by  the  president  of  the  Church,  Brigham 
Young.  President  Young  was  ordained  bv  Oliver  Cowdery,  who  was 
ordained  by  the  Prophet,  who  was  ordained  bv  Peter.  James  and  John 
and  they  were  ordained  by  the  Savior  himself.  And  so  within  a  very 
few,  short  steps  I  am  satisfied,  beyond  the  shadow  of  doubt,  that  the 
Priesthood  of  God  is  given  to  men  to  function  for  the  Lord,  and  that 
his  holy  purposes  may  be  accomplished.  In  humility,  with  the  faith 
that  these  realities  have  developed  in  me.  and  with  eratitude  for  the 
testimonies  I  enioy,  I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  the  Church,  all  of  its 
officers,  all  of  its  members,  and  all  of  those  who  are  taking  part 
in  this  great  work,  from  the  greatest  to  the  least.  I  pray  that  peace 
and  the  testimony  of  this  truth  may  burn  within  your  hearts,  that  the 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


111 


conviction  of  its  worth  and  honor  may  help  you  to  live  so  that  you 
may  obtain  the  glorious  blessings  that  have  been  predicted  and  pro- 
nounced upon  you  through  your  faithfulness.  I  bless  you  all,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  enjoyment  of  the  truth  may  be  your  por- 
tion; and  that,  through  your  faithfulness,  you  may  overcome  every 
barrier  that  may  come  in  your  pathway  to  serve  the  Lord  and  to  keep  his 
commandments ;  and  that  you  may  triumph  in  your  efforts  to  bring 
about  the  holy  purposes  of  God.  I  pray  that  these  blessings  may 
be  upon  all  the  officers  and  members  of  the  Church,  whether  they 
be  gathered  or  scattered.  I  pray  that  the  time  will  soon  arrive  when 
the  Lord  will  come  and  accept  the  work  that  is  being  done  by  this 
faithful  people,  and  that  they  may  grow  and  increase  in  faith  and  in 
principle,  until  they  shall  accomplish  his  work,  and  we  shall  enjoy  the 
blessings  which  the  Lord  has  prepared  for  us  as  his  faithful  children. 
I  pray  for  these  blessings  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  sacred  solo,  "Come  unto  me,"  was  sung  by  Mrs.  June  Marley. 
ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

"Then  came  Jesus  forth,  wearing  the  crown  of  thorns,  and  purple  robe,  and 
Filate  saith  unto  them,  Behold  the  man !" 

THE  WORLD  NEEDS  MEN 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  when  Pontius  Pilate  used  these  words, 
he  directed  attention  to  a  perfect  man.  The  world  needs  men, 
men  of  character,  God-fearing  men.  "The  world  needs  men,  true' 
men  who  cannot  be  bought  or  sold,  men  who  will  scorn  to  violate 
truth,  genuine  gold." 

What  is  the  end  and  purpose  of  religion,  "swaying  the  lives 
of  men  the  centuries  through?"  The  Latter-day  Saints  answer  in 
the  words  of  the  Lord  revealed  through  the  Prophet  Joseph,  that 
the  end  and  purpose  of  true  religion,,  which  is  the  work  of  God, 
is  "to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man." 

WHAT  IS  THE  CROWNING  GLORY  OF   MAN  ? 

And  what  is  the  crowning  glory  of  man  in  this  earth  so  far  as 
his  individual  achievement  is  concerned?  It  is  character — char- 
acter developed  through  obedience  to  the  laws  of  life  as  revealed 
through  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  who  came  that  we  might  have 
life  and  have  it  more  abundantly.  Man's  chief  concern  in  life 
should  not  be  the  acquiring  of  gold,  or  of  fame,  or  of  material 
possessions.  It  should  not  be  the  development  of  physical  prowess, 
nor  of  intellectual  strength,  but  his  aim,  the  highest  in  life,  should 
be  the  development  of  a  Christ-like  character.  "In  the  destiny  of 
every  mortal  being,"  says  Phelps,  "there  is  an  object  more  worthy 
of  God  than  happiness.    It  is  character,  and  the  grand  aim  of  man's 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


creation  is  the  development  of  a  grand  character.  A  grand  char- 
acter is  by  its  very  nature  the  product  of  a  probationary  discipline." 

FOUR  PICTURES  OF  IMPORTANCE  AND  BEAUTY 

There  are  four  pictures  upon  which  I  always  love  to  look. 
Three  are  imaginary,  one  is  real.  The  first  of  these  is  the  picture 
of  Christ  before  Pilate  when  that  Roman  official  said  to  the 
angry  mob,  "Behold  the  man !"  As  he  said  it  he  pointed  to  Jesus, 
crowned  with  thorns,  bearing  upon  his  shoulders  the  purple  robe. 
He  pointed  to  one  at  whom  the  angry  mob  sneered,  condemned 
as  a  felon  and  blasphemer,  and  yet  when  he  said,  "Behold  the  man !" 
he  described  one  who  was  perfect  in  character,  who  was  conqueror 
over  weaknesses  and  temptations,  and  who  could  say,  as  he  did  to 
his  fellow  workers,  "Peace  be  unto  you!  I  have  overcome  the 
world."  He  is  our  pattern. 

The  other  picture  is  Christ  in  his  youth.  Have  you  not 
admired  the  paintings  of  the  best  artists  who  have  tried  to  picture 
purity  and  strength  in  that  young  boy  of  twelve  years?  I  have, 
and  I  never  look  upon  one  of  the  choicest  of  these  without  feeling 
that  I  am  looking  upon  one  who  is  the  embodiment  of  youthful 
strength,  vigor  and  purity. 

The  third  is  the  picture  of  the  boy  who,  as  Hawthorne  describes 
him,  looked  upon  the  great  stone  face,  and,  while  thinking  of  the 
ideals  and  virtues  characterized  in  that  great  work  of  nature,  de- 
veloped those  same  virtues  in  his  own  life. 

The  fourth  is  a  picture  in  real  life,  a  youth  whose  clear  eyes 
picture  the  strength  of  young  manhood  and  the  purity  of  the  life 
he  has  led.  What  more  beautiful  thing  can  one  see  in  nature  than 
that?  We  love  beauty  in  womanhood,  we  also  love  beauty  and 
strength  in  young  manhood,  and  that  strength  and  beauty  come 
as  a  result  of  true  living. 

THE  GREATEST  ORGANIZATION  IN  THE  WORLD  FOR  CHARACTER-BUILDING 

I  am  grateful  this  afternoon  to  be  associated  with  you  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  the  greatest  organ- 
ization in  the  world  for  the  building  of  character ;  an  organization 
which  is  striving  to  bring  to  pass  the  end  and  purpose  of  true 
religion,  which  is  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man.  This 
earth  life  is  the  probationary  state  through  which  every  soul  must 
pass.  By  overcoming  difficulties  and  temptation,  and  by  rendering 
service  to  others,  each  may  develop  toward  the  Christ  character 
as  he  revealed  it  among  men.    It  is  a  glorious  ideal ;  it  is  inspiring. 

TWO  WAYS  IN  WHICH  CHARACTER  IS  BUILT 

There  are  two  ways  in  which  this  character  is  built  in  our 
Church.  One  is  positive.  In  that  positive  development  we  ask 
young  men  and  young  women  to  participate  in  the  various  organ- 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


113 


izations  and  the  quorums  of  priesthood.  Fathers  and  mothers,  do 
we  realize  what  this  means  in  the  development  of  the  character  of 
our  boys  and  girls?  I  have  just  time  to  suggest  that  we  go  from 
this  conference  this  October  with  a  determination  to  unite  with 
the  officers  and  teachers  in  these  associations  in  helping  them  to 
win  the  interest  of  our  children  who  participate  in  these  organiza- 
tions— the  Primary,  the  Religion  Class,  the  Sunday  School,  the 
Mutual  Improvement  Associations  and  the  Relief  Society.  I  wonder 
why  more  of  our  young  girls  do  not  join  the  last  named  organiza- 
tion, and  not  leave  it  entirely  to  our  mothers.  But,  it  may  be,  that 
the  younger  women's  time  is  occupied  with  these  other  associations 
up  to  their  taking  the  responsibility  of  the  home.  These  organiza- 
tions, however,  with  the  seminaries  and  the  Church  schools,  are  but 
auxiliaries  in  this  great  organization  of  character-building.  They 
are  but  helps  to  the  priesthood.  No  youth  in  the  Church  who 
reaches  the  age  of  twelve  should  be  excluded  because  of  un- 
worthiness  from  membership  in  the  Deacons'  quorum,  and  that 
membership  should  signify  a  clean  life,  a  prayerful  life,  faith  in  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Every  bishop  should  ask  the  boys  of  his 
ward  what  their  attitude  is  in  regard  to  these  things  before  he 
ordains  them  to  the  priesthood.  So  throughout  the  Teachers' 
quorum,  and  the  Priests'  quorum.  That  is  but  a  glimpse  of  the 
positive  means  of  character-building,  bringing  our  children  to 
Christ. 

Now  there  is  alongside  these  positive  means  a  negative  means. 
All  through  life  the  Latter-day  Saint  child  is  asked  to  refrain  from 
indulgence  in  things  that  will  tend  to  weaken  character.  He  is 
asked  to  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  he  is  asked  to  keep  himself 
pure  and  unspotted  from  the  sin  of  immorality.  That  is  a  wonder- 
ful thing,  and  especially  when  the  community  sentiment  in  the 
Church  upholds  that  teaching. 

TOBACCO  A  GROWING  EVIL 

There  is  a  growing  evil,  I  fear  it  is  growing  in  the  Church,  to 
which  I  wish  to  call  attention,  and  ask  all  these  forces  to  co- 
operate in  overcoming,  in  assisting  the  youth  to  resist.  I  refer 
to  the  evil  of  cigarette-smoking.  Smoking  is,  an  indulgence  which 
tends  to  weaken  manhood  and  womanhood  and  to  undermine  char- 
acter. I  have  always  felt  that,  and  I  have  wondered  recently 
•if  thinking  so  much  about  it  I  have  not  become  extreme  in  my  con- 
demnation of  the  habit.  With  the  view  of  checking  myself  I  took 
occasion  recently  to  read  another  book  setting  forth  the  supposed 
benefits  of  cigarette-smoking.  It  was  written  expressly  to  prove 
that  cigarette-smoking  is  not  injurious.  I  tried  to  be  fair  as  I  read 
the  two  hundred  and  some  odd  pages,  and  I  stand  today  more  firmly 
convinced  than  ever  that  the  cigarette  has  no  defense,  particularly 
among  youth.  The  habit  is  wasteful,  but  worse  than  this,  it  does 
undermine  the  character  of  youth  and  leads  to  greater  evils.  The 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


very  man  who  writes  so  carefully  and,  as  he  thinks,  so  logically 
in  the  defense  of  that  habit  has  this  to  say  about  its  indulgence  by 
youth :  "It  is  agreed  that  the  only  possible  harm  that  might  result 
from  over-indulgence  in  tobacco  must  come  from  the  nicotine  that 
is  a  natural  compound  of  all  tobacco,  and  man  very  quickly  im- 
munizes himself  to  the  effects  of  nicotine."  This  is  an  acknowl- 
edgement that  there  is  something  against  which  the  body  must  be- 
come immune.  The  writer  continues :  "Yellow  fever,  as  every 
one  knows,  is  a  horrible  and  deadly  disease,  and  yet  a  man  who  has 
once  had  it  may  regard  it  ever  after  with  the  calm  indifference 
which  an  ordinary  man  regards  nicotine." 

I  like  the  comparison.  The  use  of  nicotine  should  be  looked 
upon  just  as  we  look  upon  yellow  fever.  No  one  will  expose  him- 
self to  that  disease  merely  for  the  sake  of  becoming  immune.  It 
is  too  great  a  risk,  so  sane  persons  prefer  to  keep  from  it  entirely. 
That  is  the  pruper  attitude  also  toward  the  use  of  tobacco;  and 
that  is  just  what  the  author  quoted  desires  regarding  his  own  boy. 
Says  he : 

"I  do  not  believe  that  growing  boys  or  girls  either  should  use  tobacco  in 
any  form."  Bear  in  mind,  fellow  workers,  this  is  written  by  a  man  who  tries 
to  prove  the  beneficial  effects  of  the  cigarette.  "My  own  boy,"  he  continues, 
"has  now  reached  the  time  in  life  when  habits  are  easily  formed.  That  is  the 
age  when  there  naturally  arises  in  him  the  desire  to  imitate  his  elders  by 
smoking.  Realizing  this  I  persistently  urge  him,  as  well  as  all  other  lads  over 
whom  I' believe  I  may  have  some  influence,  to  refrain  from  the  use  of  tobacco 
during  their  tender  years,  and  quite  as  persistently  do  I  advise  them  to  refrain 
for  the  same  period  from  too  much  meat  and  from  the  use  of  strong  spices, 
cocoa^  tea  and  coffee.  But  the  best  of  all  arguments  against  the  smoking  of 
cigarettes  by  minors  seems  finally  to  be  the  fact  that  such  simoking  is  unlawful 
in  most  states  of  the  Union.  For  my  part  I  wish  it  were  unlawful  in  every 
state." 

It  is  unlawful  in  the  State  of  Utah.  And  besides  these  evils 
mentioned  by  this  advocate  of  smoking  for  older  ones,  there  is  this 
moral  danger  that  youths  who  participate  in  smoking  frequently  do 
it  surreptitiously  without  the  knowledge  of  their  parents,  thus  add- 
ing to  it  an  element  of  dishonesty,  and  dishonesty  is  one  of  the 
most  disintegrating  elements  in  character-building. 

WHAT  OUR  HOMES  SHOULD  ESTABLISH 

Our  homes  should  establish  the  fact  that  the  boy  who  indulges 
in  cigarettes  is  not  contributing  to  his  advancement  and  growth 
in  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God,  neither  preparing  himself  for 
his  responsible  place  in  society.  Today  leading  business  men  and 
leading  firms  throughout  the  country  discriminate  in  their  choice 
between  the  boy  who  smokes  and  the  boy  who  does  not  smoke, 
favoring  the  latter  always,  and  in  many  cases  refusing  absolutely 
to  employ  the  young  man  who  has  contracted  the  habit  of  the  cigar- 
ette.  That  is  only  from  an  economic  standpoint. 

We  as  Latter-day  Saints  have  a  stronger  reason  and  one  that 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


115 


points  directly  to  the  strength  and  growth  of  the  character  of  our 
boys  and  girls.  We  heard  the  opening  address  of  this  con- 
ference, from  the  President  of  the  Church  who  read  the  word  of 
God  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  tobacco  is  not  good  for  man. 
The  statement  is  not  qualified  in  any  way.  Scientists  have  demon- 
strated it;  men  who  have  tried  to  disprove  it  have  failed,  and  we  as 
a  people  stand  committed  to  that  command  of  God.  Keep  the 
habit  of  smoking  and  the  use  of  tobacco  in  any  form  out  of  the 
lives  of  our  boys.  Resistance  of  the  appetite  will  react  upon  the 
character  and  strengthen  it.  Just  because  a  man  has  developed  the 
habit  is  no  justification  for  his  continuing  it.  Just  because  some 
men  may  become  immune  (granting  this  man's  argument),  from 
the  ill  effects,  that  is  no  justification  for  its  use  in  the  priesthood  of 
God. 

FATHERS  AND  ELDERS  SHOULD  BE  WORTHY  OF  IMITATION 

Fathers  and  elders  have  the  obligation  of  setting  an  example 
worthy  of  imitation  to  the  youth.  Boys  want  to  look  upon  you 
as  men.  Their  ideals  incorporate  in  your  life  all  the  Christ-like 
attributes,  as  near  as  you  can  develop  them,  which  Christ  had  when 
the  Roman  governor  pointed  to  him,  saying,  "Behold  the  man." 
Remember,  even  though  you  have  the  habit,  overcoming  it  will 
make  you  stronger. 

"It  is  easy  enough  to  be  virtuous 
When  nothing  tempts  you  to  stray, 
When  without  or  within  no  voice  of  sin 
Is  luring  your  soul  away. 
But  it  is  only  a  negative  virtue 
Until  it  is  tried  by  fire, 

And  the  soul  that  is  worth  the  honor  of  earth 
Is  the  soul  that  resists  desire." 

God  bless  our  boys  and  our  girls !  May  they  stand  out  in  clear, 
distinct  manhood  and  womanhood  to  the  admiration  of  all  who  see 
them,  bearing  witness  that  the  power  of  the  gospel,  as  revealed  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  this  dispensation  and  as  being  preach- 
ed throughout  the  world  by  two  thousand  of  these  young  men  and 
women,  is  indeed  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters :  I  do  not  expect  to  present  any- 
thing that  is  new,  in  fact  we  have  not  heard  anything  that  is  new  during 
this  conference,  but  we  have  heard  the  simple  truths  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  which  have  been  from  the  beginning  and  which  never 
grow  old.  I  trust  that  what  I  may  add  may  find  a  response  in  your 
hearts,  that  I  may  leave  some  impression  that  will  abide  with  you 
when  you  return  to  your  homes. 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


god's  marvelous  work 

As  I  have  listened  to  the  most  excellent  testimonies  and  instructions 
that  we  have  received  during  the  sessions  of  this  conference,  my  mind 
has  turned  to  a  prophecy  given  hundreds  of  years  before  the  birth  of. 
Christ,  by  one  of  the  prophets  of  Israel: 

"Wherefore  the  Lord  said,  Forasmuch  as  this  people  draw  near  me  with 
their  mouth,  and  with  their  lips  do  honour  me,  but  have  removed  their  heart  far 
from  me,  and  their  fear  toward  me  is  taught  by  the  precept  of  men": 

"Therefore,  behold,  I  will  proceed  to  do  a  marvellous  work  among  this 
people,  even  a  marvellous  work  and  a  wonder :  for  the  wisdom  of  their  wise 
men  shall  perish,  and  the  understanding  of  their  prudent  men  shall  be  hid." 

Thus  prophesied  Isaiah,  speaking  of  these  latter  days-  The  Lord 
by  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  in  the  year  1829,  before 
the  organization  of  the  Church,  declared  that  this  time  was  at  hand, 
and  that  he  was  about  to  commence  his  great  and  marvelous  work 
among  the  children  of  men.  I  think  it  is  a  great  privilege  to  have 
the  opportunity  to  live  in  the  world  when  this  work  is  established — this 
marvelous  work  which  is  recognized  not  only  by  those  who  have  come 
into  the  Church,  but  by  many  who  are  not  in  the  Church.  I  look  upon 
the  kingdom  of  God.  or  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
as  being  the  corner  stone  of  this  great  and  marvelous  work  which  the 
Lord  was  to  perform.  And  as  I  look  over  this  vast  assembly  into  the 
faces  of  men  who  hold  the  Priesthood,  it  is  impressed  more  deeply 
upon  my  mind  that  there  is  great  significance  in  this  organization,  and 
in  this  Priesthood  which  has  been  restored  for  the  salvation  of  the 
human  family. 

WE  LIVE  IN  A  MOST  WONDERFUL  AGE 

We  are  living  in  a  marvelous  age,  a  most  wonderful  age.  The 
Lord  is  fulfiling  his  purposes  very  rapidly,  both  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints  and  among  the  peoples  of  the  earth,  everywhere.  I  am  fully 
convinced  that  the  time  is  now  here  that  was  also  spoken  of  by  another 
of  the  prophets,  who  said : 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  afterward,  that  I  will  pour  out  my  spirit  upon 
all  flesh;  and  your  sons  and  your  daughters  shall  prophesy,  your  old  men 
shall  dream  dreams,  your  young  men  shall  see  visions : 

"And  also  upon  the  servants  and  upon  the  handmaids  in  those  days  will 
I  pour  out  my  spirit." 

GREAT  MODERN  INVENTIONS  AND  DISCOVERIES 

Of  course,  it  was  those  who  held  the  Priesthood  and  who  were 
members  of  the  Church,  who  had  made  covenant  with  God,  that  should 
prophesy  and  see  visions,  'but  the  Lord  was  also  to  pour  out  his  Spirit 
on  others  beyond  the  borders  of  modern  Israel. 

I  remember  sitting  in  a  meeting  some  thirty  or  more  years  ago 
when  that  meeting  was  being  addressed  by  one  of  the  members  of  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  '  117 


Council  of  Twelve  Apostles,  who  has  long  since  departed  this  life. 
In  the  course  of  his  remarks  he  made  a  statement  that  impressed  me  and 
which  has  stayed  with  me  since  that  time.  It  was  to  the  effect  that  the 
time  would  come  when  men  would  communicate  from  city  to  city,  con- 
versing without  the  aid  of  the  telephone  or  intervening  wires.  As  I 
pondered  over  it  I  thought:  Of  course,  that  time  will  come,  but  it 
cannot  come  until  after  Christ  comes  again,  and  his  truth  shall  have 
been  acknowledged  over  the  earth  during  the  Millennium.  Then 
such  great  power  will  be  exercised,  but  even  then  it  will  be  granted 
to  those  who  are  in  the  Church  and  to  no  others.  I  have  lived,  however, 
to  see  the  fulfilment  of  that  prediction.  I  am  witnessing  it  now,  as 
no  doubt  many  are  who  are  listening  to  these  services  throughout  the 
land,  for  the  voice  of  the  speaker  is  carried  abroad  in  each  instance, 
how  far  I  do  not  know-  The  voice  is  heard  and  recognized,  perhaps  a 
thousand  miles  away,  and  the  words  leave  their  impression  on  the  mind 
of  those  who  are  listening  almost  the  same  as  if  they  were  sitting  in 
the  presence  of  the  speaker,  as  you  are  doing.  I  think  this  is  very 
wonderful ;  and  yet,  this  great  discovery  did  not  come  through  revelation 
to  a  member  of  the  Church ;  it  was  not  sent  through  one  who  holds  the 
Priesthood,  but  it  came  through  one  not  of  the  Church  but  who  was 
inspired  of  the  Lord  to  give  this  great  blessing  to  the  world.  So  with 
many  other  things,  the  automobile  and  the  airplane  as  means  of  trans- 
portation; the  talking  machine  and  all  of  these  great  discoveries  that 
have  come  through  scientific  research,  they  have  come,  most  of  them, 
outside  of  the  Church.  Yet  I  maintain  that  had  there  been  no  restor- 
ation of  the  gospel,  and  no  organization  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  there  would  have  been  no  radio ;  there  would  have 
been  no  airplane,  and  there  would  not  have  been  the  wonderful  dis- 
coveries in  medicine,  chemistry,  electricity,  and  the  many  other  things 
wherein  the  world  has  been  benefited  by  such  discoveries.  Under  such 
conditions  these  blessings  would  have  been  withheld,  for  they  belong 
to  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times  of  which  the  restoration 
of  the  gospel  and  the  organization  of  the  Church  constitute  the  central 
point,  from  which  radiates  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  throughout  the  world. 
The  inspiration  of  the  Lord  has  gone  out  and  takes  hold  of  the  minds 
of  men,  though  they  know  it  not,  and  they  are  directed  by  the  Lord. 
In  this  manner  he  brings  them  into  his  service  that  his  purposes  and 
his  righteousness,  in  due  time,  may  be  supreme  on  the  earth- 

INSPIRATION   AND  THE  GREATER  ACCUMULATION   OF  KNOWLEDGE  THE 

CAUSE 

Now  let  me  say  •^briefly  that  I  do  not  believe  for  one  moment 
that  these  discoveries  have  come  by  chance,  or  that  they  have  come 
because  of  superior  intelligence  possessed  by  men  today  over  those 
who  lived  in  ages  that  are  past.  They  have  come  and  are  coming 
because  the  time  is  ripe,  because  the  Lord  has  willed  it,  and  because  he 
has  poured  out  his  Spirit  on  all  flesh. 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  know  it  is  quite  generally  believed  that  the  people  living  now 
are  more  intelligent  than  were  those  who  lived  in  former  ages.  I 
cannot  accept  this  view  because,  with  the  understanding  I  have  of 
the  restoration  of  the  gospel  and  of  the  dealings  of  our  eternal  Father 
with  his  children  from  the  very  beginning,  I  know  that  he  would  not 
choose  and  send  into  this  world  inferior  intelligences  to  stand  at  the 
head  of  his  work.  We  are  informed  that  in  the  councils  that  were 
held  in  the  heavens,  when  tests  were  made,  the  spirits  of  the  men,  then 
living  in  the  pre-mortal  state  in  the  presence  of  the  Father  and  the 
Son,  were  chosen  to  stand  upon  the  earth  in  the  various  ages  of  the 
world's  history  to  hold  particular  positions  of  responsibility  because  of 
superior  intelligence  manifested  in  the  spirit  world.  I  am  satisfied  with 
the  thought  that  among  these  spirits  there  was  none  greater,  except  the 
Savior  of  the  ,world  himself,  than  the  one  who  was  called  to  stand 
at  the  head  of  the  human  family.  So  it  is  not  because  of  greater  in- 
telligence, but  because,  no  doubt,  of  the  greater  accumulation  of 
knowledge  together  with  the  inspiration  that  comes  from  the  Lord  as 
he  grants  it  unto  men,  that  we  receive  the  benefit  of  these  blessings. 
The  time  has  come  for  the  Father  to  gather  together  in  one  all  things 
in  Christ,  both  which  are  in  heaven,  and  which  are  on  earth,  that  the 
fulness  of  his  work  may  be  consummated.  For  this  reason  we  are 
seeing  and  enjoying  the  great  advantages  of  our  time.  The  prophets 
anciently,  I  am  sure,  spoke  of  these  marvelous  events  that  should 
come  to  pass  in  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times. 

HAS  THE  RACE  PROGRESSED  INTELLECTUALLY? 

I  have  before  me  an  excerpt  taken  from  a  lecture  delivered  on  the 
9th  day  of  February,  1925,  before  the  Philosophical  Society  of  Great 
Britain,  by  Avery  H.  Forbes,  a  member  of  that  distinguished  body. 
Discussing  the  question,  "Has  the  race  progressed  intellectually?" 
he  makes  this  comment: 

"That  information,  knowledge,  facts,  have  vastly  increased  is  undisputed, 
but  that  the  increase  is  favorable  to  the  moral  nature,  or  even  to  the  worldly 
wisdom,  is  yet  to  be  shown." 

He  then  quotes  the  following  from  Alfred  Russell  Wallace,  one 
of  the  noted  scientists  of  the  past  century : 

"The  great  majority  of  educated  persons  hold  the  opinion  that  we  are  more 
intellectual  and  wiser  than  men  of  past  ages,  that  our  mental  faculties  have 
increased  in  power,  but  the  idea  is  totally  unfounded." 

HAS  THE  RACE  MADE  MORAL  PROGRESS  ? 

Then,  discussing  another  problem,  "Has  the  race  progressed 
morally?"  Mr.  Forbes  concludes  that  it  has  not,  but  on  the  contrary, 
with  the  greater  knowledge  that  has  been  imparted  and  the  greater 
power  to  act,  men  have  used  these  agencies  for  the  creation  of  greater 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  119 


crime.  However,-  they  have  had  the  means  within  their  hands  to 
benefit  mankind  and  to  bring  about  increased  righteousness-  I  think 
his  conclusion  is  in  perfect  harmony  with  the  revelations  of  the  Lord 
to  his  people. 

WHERE  MUCH  IS  GIVEN  MUCH  IS  REQUIRED 

In  conclusion,  I  want  to  call  your  attention  to  this  fact,  that 
members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  who  have 
received  the  greater  light  and  have  made  greater  covenants  to  serve 
the  Lord,  are  under  the  necessity  of  keeping  those  covenants  and 
commandments  in  righteousness  and  humility.  We  are  living  in  perilous 
times,  notwithstanding  the  remarkable  wonders  and  accumulated  knowl- 
edge of  the  present  age.  This  is  a  day  of  ungodliness  and  increased 
iniquity  and  men  everywhere  are  paying  little  heed  to  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord.  These  evil  conditions  which  confront  us  tend  to 
lead  us  from  the  path  of  truth.  As  members  of  the  Church  we  have 
greater  opportunity,  because  of  modern  revelation  and  the  Priesthood, 
to  serve  our  fellows  and  to  teach  them  the  ways  of  eternal  life.  Let 
us  remember  the  words  of  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith : 

"For  of  him  unto  whom  much  is  given  much  is  required ;  and  he  who  sins 
against  the  greater  light  shall  receive  the  greater  condemnation. 

"Ye  call  upon  my  name  for  revelations,  and  I  give  them  unto  you;  and 
inasmuch  as  ye  keep  not  my  sayings,  which  I  give  unto  you,  ye  become  trans- 
gressors ;  and  justice  and  judgment  are  the  penalty  which  is  affixed  unto  my  law." 

I  would  like  to  present  all  of  this  revelation,  but  you  may  read 
it  yourselves.  It  is  found  in  section  eighty-two  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants.    I  will,  however,  read  one  or  two  more  verses : 

"And  again,  I  say  unto  you,  I  give  unto  you  a  new  commandment,  that  you 
may  understand  my  will  concerning  you ; 

"Or,  in  other  words,_I  give  unto  you  direction  how  you  may  act  before  me, 
that  it  may  turn  to  you  for  your  salvation. 

"I,  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do  what  I  say;  but  when  ye  do  not  what 
I  say,  ye  have  no  promise." 

The  man  who  has  received  the  truth  and  yet  will  not  walk  in 
it  deserves  the  greater  condemnation.  A  member  of  this  Church  who 
will  indulge  in  the  use  of  tobacco,  who  will  violate  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
who  refuses  to  pay  his  tithing,  to  keep  the  Sabbath  day,  or  who  iri 
any  other  way  will  not  hearken  to  the  word  of  the  Lord,  is  not  loyal 
to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  was  thinking,  when  Brother  Rey  L.  Pratt  was  speaking  of  his 
labors  in  South  America,  how  certain  Italian  brethren  came  confessing 
their  sins  and  in  humility  forsaking  them — giving  up  everything 
in  the  world  for  the  gospel's  sake  because  they  had  found  the  truth, 
how  characteristic  that  is  of  those  who  receive  the  gospel  out  in  the 
world.  Yet,  here  at  home  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  in  the  shadows  of 
Temples,  are  to  be  found  those  who  are  numbered  with  the  Church  who 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


will  not  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  Some  of  them  have  made 
covenant  in  holy  places,  and  yet  they  do  not  value  the  truth ;  they  do 
not  value  the  teachings  of  the  servants  of  the  Lord  and  they  will  not 
walk  in  the  knowledge  which  they  possess,  much  less  by  every  word 
that  proceeds  forth  from  the  mouth  of  God-  These  shall  receive  the 
greater  condemnation.  Oh  how  I  wish  all  who  live  in  the  stakes  of  Zion 
could  get  the  same  spirit  of  humility  and  faith  that  is  manifested  by  these 
humble  converts  out  in  the  world.  What  a  power  we  would  be  for 
righteousness.  May  we  seek  for  it,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
our  Lord.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  made  a  memorandum  to  speak  of  the  statue  which  has  been 
completed  and  installed  in  the  Bureau  of  Information,  commemorat- 
ing one  of  the  most  remarkable  incidents  in  the  history  of  the  Church ; 
namely,  the  migration  to  these  valleys  of  men  and  women  in  this 
great  cause,  pulling  handcarts  and  bringing  their  blankets  with  them. 
Brother  Knaphus  has  done  himself  proud  in  producing  this  small 
statue,  which  can  be  seen  in  the  Bureau  of  Information  building.  Some 
of  the  most  heroic  and  self-sacrificing  pioneer  work  that  was  ever 
done  by  those  coming  to  the  valleys  is  accredited  to  the  people  who 
came  in  the  handcart  companies. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 
The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  C.  Alvin  Orme,  presi- 
dent of  the  Tooele  stake  of  Zion. 

The  conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  October  5,  1926. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  SESSION 

On  Tuesday  morning,  October  5,  1926,  the  conference  re-convened. 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 
The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  ye  mountains  high." 
Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Lewis  R.  Anderson,  of  the  South 
Sanpete  stake  of  Zion. 

The  congregation  sang,  "How  firm  a  foundation." 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the 
Eastern  States  Mission 

Section  20  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  is  a  composite  revelation, 
by  which  I  mean  that  it  is  a  revelation  that  was  not  written  at  one  time 
on  the  part  of  the  prophet  who  received  it.  It  consists  of  a  number 
of  brief  revelations,  received  at  sundry  times  between  the  publication 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  organization  of  the  Church  on  the 
6th  day  of  April,  1830.  And  these  revelations  were  given,  for  the 
most  part,  in  the  upper  chamber  in  the  home  of  Father  Peter  Whitmer, 
at  Fayette,  Seneca  county,  New  York  state. 

In  the  first  part  of  this  section  is  the  following  statement : 

"After  it  was  truly  manifested  unto  this  first  elder,"  [meaning  the  prophet 
Joseph  Smith]  "that  he  had  received  a  remission  of  his  sins,  he  was  entangled 
again  in  the  vanities  of  the  world ; 

"But  after  repenting,  and  humbling  himself  sincerely,  through  faith,  God 
ministered  unto  him  by  an  holy  angel,  whose  countenance  was  as  lightning,  and 
whcse  garments  were  pure  and  white  over  all  other  whiteness ; 

"And  gave  unto  him  commandments  which  inspired  him; 

"And  gave  him  power  from  on  high,  by  the  means  which  were  before  pre- 
pared, to  translate  the  Book  of  Mormon." 

And,  of  course,  under  that  inspiration,  not  only  to  translate  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  but  also  to  send  it  forth  into  the  world.  By  these 
same  commandments,  "which  inspired  him,"  he  also  obtained  the  res- 
toration of  the  holy  Priesthood;  and  by  the  same  inspiration  he  or- 
ganized the  Church,  and  from  time  to  time  received  communications 
and  the  visitation  of  angels  which  fed  the  inspiration  that  had  come 
upon  him  through  the  commandments  of  God,  until  at  last  he  achieved 
that  magnificent  work  which  we  now  know  as  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel,  and  the  establishment  in  the  earth  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  with  its  divine  mission  and  commission  to 
proclaim  the  gospel  in  all  the  world,  and  bring  salvation  unto  the 
children  of  men. 

What  I  desire  more  especially  to  call  your  attention  to  this  morning 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


is  this  statement:  "And  gave  unto  him  commandments  which  inspired 
him";  and  under  which  he  achieved  all  this  great  work  that  I  have 
briefly  outlined.  Latter-day  Saints,  you  have  these  same  command- 
ments. Why  may  not  we  obtain,  also,  if  not  in  the  superlative  degree, 
yet  in  rich  degree,  the  same  inspiration  that  the  prophet  of  the  Lord 
derived  from  these  commandments?  I  would  like  to  give  an  illustra- 
tion of  how  these  commandments  and  the  visitation  of  heavenly  beings — 
how  the  events,  these  fundamental  events  in  which  the  Church  of 
Christ  had  its  origin — inspired  the  prophet ;  and  perhaps  we  may  learn 
from  that  illustration  the  lesson  of  catching  the  same  inspiration.. 
First,  let  me  remark,  however,  concerning  a  great  principle  which 
statesmen  recognize,  for  the  principle  is  expressed  in  a  number  of  our 
state  constitutions,  and  quite  prominently  in  the  constitution  of  our 
own  state,  to  the  effect,  that  "a  frequent  recurrence  to  fundamental 
principles  is  essential  to  the  maintenance  of  liberty" ;  and  so,  in  like 
manner,  a  frequent  recurrence  to  the  commandments  God  has  given, 
and  the  great  events  which  have  produced  God's  great  latter-day  work 
— frequent  recurrence  to  those  things  cannot  do  otherwise  than  to  give 
birth  to  a  beautiful  white  light  of  inspiration  in  the  souls  of  those  who 
indulge  in  this  recurrence  to  the  commandments  of  God. 

While  the  Prophet  Joseph  was  in  seclusion,  in  1844,  he  issued 
letters  of  instruction  to  the  Saints  who  were  just  beginning  to  carry 
on  the  work  of  redeeming  the  dead ;  and  from-  his  place  of  conceal- 
ment he  threw  a  flood  of  light  upon  the  necessary  steps  to  take  in 
perfecting  the  operation  of  that  great  work  which  had  but  recently 
been  introduced  in  practice  to  the  Church.  It  is  in  section  128  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  I  suggest  you  read  all  of  it,  I  will  only  read 
part  of  it.  In  the  course  of  writing  that  inspired  instruction,  the 
prophet  gives  an  ecstatic  review  of  some  of  the  events  out  of  which  the 
Church  grew  into  existence ;  and  see  what  comes  of  it,  I  pray  you : 

"Now,  what  do  we  hear  in  the  gospel  which  we  have  received?  A  voice  of 
gladness!  A  voice  of  mercy  from  heaven;  and  a  voice  of  truth  out  of  the 
earth ;  glad  tidings  for  the  dead ;  a  voice  of  gladness  for  the  living  and,  the 
dead;  glad  tidings  of  great  joy.  How  beautiful  upon  the  mountains  are  the 
feet  of  those  that  bring  glad  tidings  of  good  things,  and  that  say  unto  Zion : 
Behold,  thy  God  reigneth !  As  the  dews  of  Carmel,  so  shall  the  knowledge  of 
God  descend  upon  them ! 

"And  again,  what  do  we  hear?  Glad  tidings  from  Cumorah !  Moroni,  an 
angel  from  heaven,  declaring  the  fulfilment  of  the  prophets — the  book  to  be 
revealed.  A  voice  of  the  Lord  in  the  wilderness  of  Fayette,.  Seneca  county, 
declaring  the  three  witnesses  to  bear  record  of  the  book ! 

"The  voice  of  Michael  on  the  banks  of  the  Susquehanna,  detecting  the  devil 
when  he  appeared  as  an  angel  of  light !  The  voice  of  Peter,  James,  and  John 
in  the  wilderness  between  Harmony,  Susquehanna  county,  and  Colesville,  Broome 
county,  on  the  Susquehanna  river,  declaring  themselves  as  possessing  the  keys 
of  the  kingdom  and  of  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times! 

"And  again,  the  voice  of  God  in  the  chamber  of  old  Father  Whitmer,  in 
Fayette,  Seneca  county,  and  at  sundry  times,  and  in  divers  places  through  all  the 
travels  and  tribulations  of  this  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints! 
And  the  voice  of  Michael,  the  archangel;  the  voice  of  Gabriel,  and  of  Raphael, 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


123 


and  of  divers  angels,  from  Michael  or  Adam  down  to  the  present  time,  all 
declaring  their  dispensation,  their  rights,  their  keys,  their  honors,  their  majesty 
and  glory  and  the  power  of  their  priesthood;  giving  line  upon  line,  precept 
upon  precept;  here  a  little,  and  there  a  little;  giving  us  consolation  by  holding 
forth  that  which  is  to  come,  confirming  our  hope ! 

"Brethren,  shall  we  not  go  on  in  so  great  a  cause  ?  Go  forward  and  not  back- 
ward. Courage,  brethren;  and  on,  on  to  the  victory!  Let  your  heats  rejoice, 
and  be  exceedingly  glad.  Let  the  earth  break  forth  into  singing.  Let  the  dead 
speak  forth  anthems  of  eternal  praise  to  the  King  Immanuel,  who  hath  ordained, 
before  the  world  was,  that  which  would  enable  us  to  redeem  them  out  of  their 
prison;  for  the  prisoners  shall  go  free. 

"Let  the  mountains  shout  for  joy,  and  all  ye  valleys  cry  aloud;  and  all  ye 
seas  and  dry  lands  tell  the  wonders  of  your  Eternal  King !  And  ye  rivers,  and 
brooks,  and  rills,  flow  down  with  gladness.  Let  the  woods  and  all  the  trees  of 
the  field  praise  the  Lord;  and  ye  solid  rocks  weep  for  joy!  And  let  the  sun, 
moon,  and  the  morning  stars  sing  together,  and  let  all  the  sons  of  God  shout  for 
joy!  And  let  the  eternal  creations  declare  his  name  forever  and  ever!  And 
again  I  say,  how  glorious  is  the  voice  we  hear  from  heaven,  proclaiming  in  our 
ears,  glory,  and  salvation,  and  honor,  and  immortality,  and  eternal  life ;  king- 
doms, principalities,  and  powers !" 

David,  in  the  Psalms,  has  not  equalled  that  ecstasy.  I  know  of 
no  passage  in  human  literature  that  rises  to  the  grandeur  and  sub- 
limity of  these  thoughts  of  our  Prophet  as  he  reviews  the  command- 
ments of  God  and  the  great  events  in  which  the  work,  of  which  he 
was  the  prophet,  seer  and  revelator,  had  its  birth,  and  its  growth,  and 
its  development.  It  is  generally  accorded  that  the  imagery  of  our 
National  Anthem,  America,  is  splendid.  A  verse  or  two  runs  as 
follows : 

"My  native  country,  thee, 
Land  of  the  noble,  free, 

Thy  name  I  love  : 
I  love  thy  rocks  and  rills, 
Thy  woods  and  templed  hills ; 
My  heart  with  rapture  thrills, 

Like  that  above. 

Let  music  swell  the  breeze, 
And  ring  from  all  the  trees 

Sweet  freedom's  song; 
Let  mortal  tongues  awake, 
Let  all  that  breathe  partake ; 
Let  rocks  their  silence  break, 

The  sound  prolong !" 

That  is  regarded  as  very  splendid  imagery,  poetry.  I  wish  some- 
times our  congregations  in  this  house  would  sing  it  more  frequently,  in 
our  conferences.  While  this  is  regarded  as  fine  imagery,  how  tame  in 
comparison  with  that  more  splendid  imagery  that  stirred  and  inspired 
the  soul  of  our  Prophet  when  he  contemplated  the  commandments  of 
God  and  the  facts  in  which  this  work  had  its  origin  and  which  I  have 
just  read  to  you.  Well,  Joseph  Smith  drew  inspiration  from  that 
contemplation  and  from  the  commandments  of  God  he  received.  And 
it  is  important  that  from  time  to  time  we  gather  in  these  conferences 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  have  our  minds  refreshed  with  these  things,  because  in  these 
general  conferences  we  do  make  frequent  references  to  these  things — 
we  have  frequent  recurrence  to  fundamental  facts  in  which  our  Church 
had  its  origin  There  is  something  real  in  this  frequent  recurrence  to 
fundamental  principles,  just  as  real  are  they  as  when  we  partake  of  the 
holy  Sacrament,  the  symbols  of  our  salvation;  the  broken  bread  and 
the  water  representing  the  broken  body  and  the  shed  blood  of  our 
Lord.  By  partaking  of  these  symbols  in  remembrance  of  him,  though 
they  are  material  things,  this  bread  and  this  water,  although  they  are 
but  words  that  make  up  that  most  splendid  prayer  of  consecration,  yet 
they  evoke  in  the  soul  a  spiritual  power  that  is  as  palpably  food  to 
the  spirit  of  man  as  is  the  material  food  that  he  partakes  of  to 
strengthen  'his  body  from  day  to  day.  So  it  js  in  contemplating  these 
commandments  of  God  and  the  great  events  in  which  our  Church  had 
its  origin.  They  do  impart  a  spiritual  uplift,  they  do  give  impetus  to 
the  spiritual  forces,  and  raise  to  higher  levels  the  ideals  of  the  Saints. 
They  lift  the  Saints  above  the  normal,  and  draw  them  close  into 
fellowship  with  God.  The  volume  and  quality  of  faith  are  renewed,  and 
are  made  to  blaze  forth  with  a  clearer  light,  with  greater  warmth,  that 
carries  the  Saints  'through  the  trying  affairs  of  life,  over  all  the  dis- 
appointments of  it,  and  makes  faith  triumphant  in  their  souls. 

I  rejoice  that  we  may  have  access  to  these  sources  of  inspiration. 

By  the  way,  many  of  you  doubtless  have  read  Victor  Hugo's  account 
of  the  street  gamin,  Gavroche,  I  think,  was  the  name.  He  was  with 
a  band  of  insurgents  attempting  a  revolution  in  Paris,  and  chancing 
to  overhear  that  the  ammunition  of  the  insurgents  was  giving  out,  he 
took  a  soldier's  haversack,  crept  over  the  breastworks  of  the  insurgents, 
and  under  the  screen  of  the  smoke  in  the  streets,  went  from  corpse  to 
corpse  of  the  soldiery  whom  the  insurgents  had  shot  down,  and  whom 
their  comrades  had  left  dead  in  the  street,  gathering  the  unfired 
cartridges  from  their  belts.  As  he  went  he  sang  his  defiance  to  those 
who  were  firing  at  the  barricade,  and  at  him.  Sometimes  a  bullet 
would  strike  a  dead  man  with  a  cold  thud.  "Ah,"  he  would  say,  "they 
are  killing  my  dead  for  me;"  Then  again  a  bullet  would  strike  fire 
from  the  pavement,  but  there  was  nothing  that  could  daunt 'the  young 
gamin.  He  went  from  corpse  to  corpse,  gathering-  ammunition  and 
singing  his  defiance.  Presently  a  bullet  truck  him  and  he  fell  to 
the  pavement,  but  not  to  remain  there.  The  touch  of  the  pavement 
seemed  to  give  the  gamin  life,  and  he  arose  to  renew  his  defiance. 
The  touch  of  the  pavement  seemed  to  give  the  inspiration  of  life  to 
him,  as  touch  of  the  earth  seemed  to  give  vigor  and  strength  to 
Antaeus,  the  wrestler  of  old  mythology,  who  was  invincible  so  long  as 
he  could  keep  contact  with  the  earth.  So  with  Hugo's  gamin  and  tha 
pavement— touch  of  it  seemed  to  renew  his  life.  So  let  it  be  with  us 
when  we  touch  the  commandments  of  God,  may  they  impart  to  us 
light  and  power  and  inspiration  that  shall  renew  our  strength.  As  the 
aerie  to  the  eagle;  as  the  bugle  to  the  war  horse;  as  sight  of  the  flag 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


125 


to  the  patriot,  and  the  drum-beat  to  the  soldier,  so  let  frequent  re- 
currence to  the  commandments  of  God,  and  to  the  great  events  in 
which  our  Church  had  its  origin  give  inspiration  and  spirit  life  to  us. 

I  rejoice  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is 
gradually  gathering  into  its  control  the  sacred  places  where  great  his- 
torical events  happened.  I  am  sure  that  it  will  tend  to  intensify  our 
remembrance  of  those  events.  I  remember  the  effect  the  general  con- 
ference of  the  Eastern  States  mission  had  upon  our  young  mission- 
aries— the  conference  that  was  held  at  the  Hill  Cumorah  in  1923, 
celebrating  the  one  hundreth  anniversary  of  the  revealed  existence 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I  noticed  the  effect  on  a  group  of  mission- 
aries only  a  few  days  ago  of  a  visit  to  the  Memorial  Cottage  and  the 
monument  that  mark  the  birthplace  of  our  prophet.  It  seemed  to 
inspire  them  with  confidence  and  faith  in  what  they  had  heard  of 
him.  I  rejoice  that  we  have  these  places.  I  rejoice  that  [we  have 
the  Joseph  Smith  Farm,  the  farm  on  which  the  prophet  toiled  in 
his  boyhood,  and  where  some  of  the  important  revelations  of  Gqd 
were  given  to  him.  I  never  visit  that  place  but  what  I  feel  that  I  am 
living  in  the  atmosphere  of  the  great  events  that  took  place  there. 
The  most  uplifting,  sanctifying  and  glorifying  inspiration  that  I  have 
ever  experienced  has  been  in  the  Sacred  Grove  where  the  Lord  ap- 
peared unto  him  who  was  to  become  the  New  Witness  for  God  in 
the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times.  I  am'  happy  in  the  oppor- 
tunity of  visiting  that  place  and  of  receiving  the  sacrament  of  the 
Lord's  Supper  there,  from  time  to.  time.  I  rejoice  that  recently,  acting 
under  instructions  from  the  First  Presidency,  we  were  able  to  secure 
the  place  where  the  Church  was  born,  the  house  in  which,  as  I  now 
believe,  the  Church  was  organized.  I  know  that  that  is  disputed,  and. 
that  a  house  is  referred  to  about  one  hundred  feet  or  more  from  the 
house  that  now  stands,  that  was  destroyed,  and  is  said  to  be  the  old 
Whitmer  home  and  occupied  by  the  prosperous  Whitmer  family  during 
the  time  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  was  a  guest  at  their  home,  and  in 
which  he  organized  the  Church.  We  now  have  a  complete  abstract  of 
title  with  the  name  of  every  man  and  woman  through  whom  the  title 
has  passed;  and  I  think  we  shall  be  able  to  patiently  investigate  the 
matter  until  we  arrive  at  the  absolute  truth  as  to  whether  or  not  the 
house  now  standing  there  is  the  old  Peter  Whitmer  home.  If  that 
is  not  the  house,  we  don't  want  to  hold  forth  to  the  world  that  it  is; 
but  if  it  is  really  the  home  of  the  Whitmer  family,  where  these  revela- 
tions in  section  20  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  were  given  at  sundry 
times,  and  where  the  Church  was  organized — if  really  we  have  that 
house,  what  a  treasure  it  is !  And  what  an  inspiration  it  will  be  to 
the  Church  to  be  conscious  of  the  fact  that  we  do  possess  it.  It 
was  to  this  home  that  the  Prophet  Joseph,  his  wife  Emma  and  Oliver 
Cowdery  were  brought  by  David  Whitmer  from  Harmony,  Pennsylva- 
nia, and  were  received  as  guests ;  and  where  the  Prophet  completed  the 
translation  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.   As  soon  as  it  was  completed,  the 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


prophet,  by  messenger,  sent  the  glad  word  to  his  parents  living  at 
their  home  in  Manchester  township,  and  they  with  Martin  Harris  im- 
mediately repaired  to  the  Whitmer  home,  where  the  prophet  took  the 
step  necessary  to  obtain  the  testimony  of  the  Three  Witnesses.  That 
testimony  was  received  in  a  grove  that  then  existed  either  on  or  near 
the  Whitmer  farm.  They  had  prayer  in  the  morning  at  the  Whitmer 
home,  for  the  Whitmer  family  were  devout  Christian  people.  Old 
father  Peter  Whitmer  was  a  member  of  that  strictest  of  sects,  the 
Presbyterians.  He  was  a  sincere  and  good  Presbyterian  and  followed 
the  practice  of  prayer  at  his  family  altar.  The  day  after  the  arrival  of 
the  prophet's  father  and  mother  and  Martin  Harris,  as  they  completed 
prayer  that  morning,  the  Prophet  Joseph  walked  across  the  room,  and 
speaking  directly  to  Martin  Harris,  he  said  in  effect :  Martin  Harris, 
you  must  repent.  You  must  humble  yourself  before  the  Lord  this 
day  as  you  have  never  done  before,  and  get  a  forgiveness  of  your  sins ; 
and  if  you  will  do  this  you  shall,  with  Oliver  Cowdery  and  David 
Whitmer,  obtain  a  view  of  the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon 
is  translated. 

Shortly  after  breakfast  the  four  named  went  out  into  the  woods,  as 
I  have  said,  and  there  supplicated  the  Lord  with-  the  result  that  they 
beheld  the  plates  and  the  engravings  thereon,  and  they  heard  the  voice 
of  God  proclaim  that  the  translation  was  true  and  he  commanded  them 
to  bear  witness  of  it  to  all  the  world. 

In  my  interview  with  David  Whitmer,  in  1884,  as  he  went  over 
this  ground,  led  by  my  questions,  when  we  came  to  this  part  of  it  he 
said  to  me  that  in  the  progress  of  turning  the  leaves,  or  having  them 
turned  by  Moroni,  and  looking  upon  the  engravings,  Moroni  looked 
directly  at  him  and  said :  "David,  blessed  is  he  that  endureth  to  the 
end."  When  David  Whitmer  made  that  remark  it  seemed  to  me  rather 
a  peculiar  thing  that  he  should  thus  be  singled  out  for  such  a  remark, 
and  I  remember  reporting  it  as  such  to  President  John  Morgan,  then 
president  of  the  Southern  States  mission.  I  stated  to  him  the  peculiar 
feelings  I  had  when  I  learned  that  from  the  lips  of  David  Whitmer; 
but  the  subsequent  history  of  these  three  witnesses  led  me  to  conclude 
that  there  was  indeed  a  hidden  warning  in  the  words  of  the  angel  to 
David,  "Blessed  is  he  that  endureth  to  the  end."  And  it  is  rather 
a  sad  reflection  that  of  these  three  witnesses  he  was  the  only  one 
who  died  outside  of  membership  in  the  Church.  I  wonder  if  Moroni 
was  not  trying  to  sound  a  warning  to  this  stubborn  man,  that  perhaps 
whatever  his  experiences  and  trials  might  be,  that  at  the  last  he,  too, 
might  have  been  brought  into  the  fold,  and  might  have  died  within 
the  pale  of  the  Church. 

Well,  the  foregoing  mentioned  incidents  are  the  sacred  associa- 
tions connected  with  the  Whitmer  Farm  in  addition  to  the  fact  that  it 
was  the  place  where  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  was  organized,  and 
the  First  President  of  the  Church  sustained  under  the  title  of  the  first 
Elder  of  the  Church,  with  Oliver  Cowdery  as  the  second  Elder  in 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


127 


the  Church.  I  feel  satisfied  that  we  are  going  to  get  added  inspiration 
from  the  fact  that  we  own  our  birthplace  and  our  cradle.  I  would 
like  to  point  out  some  other  things,  but  time  will  not  permit,  except 
to  say  this :  There  are  those  who  undertake  to  say  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  fallen  prophet,  and  that  in  the  latter  years  of  his  life  he  marred 
his  mission,  and  that  he  was  a  fallen  prophet.  A  fallen  prophet! 
What  ?  And  yet,  give  a  sunburst  of  inspiration  like  that  which  I  have 
read  to  you  here  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  given  in  1842? 
Out  upon  it !  It  could  not  be  true.  He  who  voiced  that  reverence  for 
God,  and  had  that  exalted  spirit  awakened  within  him  by  contemplating 
the  early  scenes  of  his  mission — as  I  have  read  to  you — is  no  fallen 
prophet.  His  life  ended  en  crescendo.  It  grew  richer,  it  grew  greater 
as  it  neared  its  close.  His  nearness  to  God  was  emphasized  more  in  the 
closing  years  of  his  life  than  ever  before.  The  revelations  that  he  gave 
increased  in  power  and  magnificence.  And  so,  too,  in  his  discourses, 
they  grew  in  magnificence  and  power  as  he  proclaimed  God's  great 
and  mighty  truths  in  the  last  few  months  of  his  life.  The  Saints  of 
God  who  witnessed  the  inspiration  of  God  upon  him,  come  to  us 
with  testimonies  of  his  increasing  power  as  a  Prophet  of  God  in  the 
latter  years  of  his  life.  Joseph  Smith  was  no  fallen  prophet,  nor  could 
he  be  and  give  such  evidence  of  inspiration  both  in  the  revelations 
he  received,  and  in  the  great  sermons  that  he  delivered  near  the  close 
of  his  life,  such  as  the  King  Follett  sermon,  and  other  great  discourses. 
I  rejoice  in  this  evidence  of  the  inspiration  of  our  prophet,  the  grandeur 
of  his  work  and  the  evidence  that  we  gather  of  the  truth  of  it  from 
these  things  we  have  considered.  Amen. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

It  has  been  a  number  of  years  since  I  have  followed  Elder  Roberts 
in  the  pulpit.  The  first  time  I  ever  saw  President  Roberts  was  in 
Chattanooga,  Tennessee.  The  first  time  I  ever  heard  him  preach  the 
gospel  was  in  Burk's  Garden.  I  confess,  at  that  time  and  for  a  con- 
siderable length  of  time  afterwards,  I  was  always  awe-struck,  and 
almost  beaten  into  silence  when  asked  to  follow  him  in  his  public 
addresses.  But  I  am  thankful  to  the  Lord  that  I  have  gotten  over  it,  that 
I  no  longer  feel  that  way.  It  has  been  a  fight  all  my  life  to  follow  men 
who  have  great  ability  and  who  were  greatly  blessed  as  public  speakers. 
My  lesson  came  to  me  in  this  way,  that  I  discovered  that  no  man  was 
ever  created  that  could  reach  all  the  people  at  one  time,  and  I  figured 
that  there  must  be  some  poor  soul  with  bowed  head  who  was  dis- 
couraged and  disheartened  to  whom  I  might,  through  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord,  and  under  the  influence  of  his  holy  Spirit,  give  a  word  of 
cheer ;  and  it  has  proved  to  be  true,  for  I  think  now  of  several  occasions 
— three  distinct  places,  I  remember  at  the  present  moment,  at  different 
times  when  persons  met  me  on  the  street  disheartened. 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


They  had  fallen  by  the  way;  they  saw  no  way  out- of  their  diffi- 
culties, and  were  in  a  suicidal  condition.  For  the  first  one  who  came 
to  me  in  that  condition  I  had  no  answer.  I  did  not  know  what  to  do. 
"Why  didn't  you  go  to  your  bishop?  Why  did  you  come  to  me?" 
"Brother  Kimball,  I  heard  you  preach,  and  I  thought  there  might  be  a 
chance."  In  those  cases  I  went  to  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  and 
that  is  where  I  learned  the  great  magnanimity  and  the  charitableness 
and  bigness  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church.  In  each  of  those  cases 
I  was  used  as  an  instrument.  They  never  asked  me  the  names  of 
the  young  men,  they  simply  wanted  me  to  take  up  a  labor  with  them, 
and  if  they  repented  I  was  authorized,  not  by  the  bishop  nor  the 
president  of  the  stake,  in  those  particular  cases,  but  by  the  Presidency 
of  the  Church,  and  the  young  men  were  baptized,  they  were  confirmed, 
and  they  were  started  out  to  serve  God  and  as  far  as  I  know7  in  each 
and  every  case,  they  made  good. 

I  remember  one  young  man,  highly  cultured  and  educated  in  the 
University  of  Utah.  I  will  never  forget  that  young  man,  no  matter  how 
long  I  live.  It  was  at  the  time  of  the  World  War,  and  he  had  been 
unfortunate.  I  did  not  know  him;  I  never  saw  him  before.  He  came 
to  me  in  great  distress.  I  went  to  the  Presidency  and  that  young 
man  repented,  and  he  was  baptized  and  confirmed.  He  went  into  the 
war,  became  a  lieutenant,  and  the  last  I  heard  of  him— he  wrote  me 
several  times — his  letter  stated :  "I  know  God  forgave  me,  for  I  have 
felt  the  influence  of  his  holy  Spirit  in  the  army,  that  has  brought  me 
joy  and  peace  and  happiness."  - 

So  that  I  feel  to  encourage  the  priesthood  of  God.  We  never  know 
how  much  good  we  do  when  we  speak  in  the  name  of  the  Lord.  I  don't 
believe,  I  can't  believe,  that  I  ever  converted  a  man  in  my  life,  but 
I  have  taught  the  truth,  I  have  preached  the  gospel,  and  my  voice 
has  been  heard  from  Canada  to  Mexico,  more  times  than  one.  I  was 
in  the  General  Board  of  the  Young  Men's  Association  for  thirty  years, 
and  I  have  never  had  greater  joy  or  greater  happiness  than  in  lifting 
up  my  voice  among  the  rising  generation.  How  much  good  we  do, 
as  I  stated  before,  no  man  knoweth.  I  claim  that  every  man  fills  his 
niche  when  he  is  called  of  God  and  set  apart  and  ordained  to  an  office. 
He  may  not  fill  it  in  the  way  someone  else  fills  it,  but  if  he  is  a  man  of 
courage  he  will  fill  it  in  his  own  way,  under  the  influence  of  the  holy 
Spirit. 

I  have  no  apology  to  make  for  my  origin.  I  was  told  once  that 
my  trouble  was,  I  was  trying  to  be  like  my  father.  Well,  thank  God 
I  can  try  to  be  like  him  a  little,  but  I  was  too  young,  when  my  father 
died,  to  remember  his  mannerisms  and  his  method  of  speech. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  conclusion  I  want  to  lift  up  a  danger 
signal  to  the  rising  generation.  In  doing  it  I'  want  to  be  very  careful 
the  way  in  which  I  express  it,  so  I  shall  attempt  to  read  it,  although 
it  is  against  my  grain  to  do  so.  In  our  great  city  with  its  wonderful 
streets,  I  can't  but  think  of  the  danger  that  menaces  the  people. 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


129 


We  see  your  red  lights,  we  see  your  green  lights,  and  the  officers  of 
this  city  are  doing  everything  in  their  power  to  protect  the  people,  but 
the  people  do  not  pay  any  attention  to  the  signals — some  of  them  do 
not.  There  is  nothing  else  annoys  me  so  much  as  for  a  man  to  run 
on  to  me  with  one  of  those  great,  powerful  machines,  and  just  before 
hitting  me,  honk  his  horn.  My  legs  go  right  from  under  me.  I 
can't  even  hit  a  trot,  and  the  feeling  I  have  is  that  he  is  saying:  "Get 
out  of  the  way,  we  are  coming."  I  got  that  the  other  night  on  First 
North  street  here.  I  can  see  only  one  way  at  a  time,  and  then  I  am 
not  quite  clear,  but  I  had  to  see  four  ways  that  night.  Here  came 
two  machines  around  that  corner,  with  these  cars  all  parked  right 
up  to  the  corner,  and  they  tried  to  beat  each  other  through  and  caught 
me  in  the  center.  The  only  thing  that  saved  my  life  was  my  being  thin. 
I  am  not  trying  to  be  funny,  I  am  trying  to  be  serious.  Now  all  these 
danger  signals  with  your  yellow  marks — I  have  stood  there  and  watched 
the  lights,  listened  to  the  bell,  and  yet  last  year,  if  I  remember  right, 
the  automobiles  killed  over  twenty  thousand  people  in  the  United  States, 
one-half,  perhaps,  as  many  as  were  killed  in  the  World  War — referring, 
of  course,  to  the  American  soldiers.  Now  I  don't  want  to  get  killed. 
What  I  am  worried  about  is  that  they  might  not  make  a  good  job  of  it 
I  would  hate  to  be  maimed  and  crippled  for  life  through  the  careless' 
ness  of  men  and  women.  Now  I  want  to  set  up  signals  that  are  a 
hundred  thousand  times  more  important  than  dodging  autos : 

IMPRESSIONS  AND  REFLECTIONS 

Shall  we  be  brave,  courageous  men,  standing  upon  the  secure  heights 
of  virtue  and  righteousness  where  God's  sun  shines,  and  preach  the 
truth  and  cry  repentance  unto  this  people? 

This  great  country,  America,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  declared, 
is  Zion,  North  and  South  America,  the  pure  in  heart.  It  would  seem 
to  me  that  this  great  responsibility  rests  almost  entirely  with  the  young 
men  and  women  of  this  generation. 

The  question  naturally  arises :  What  is  the  trend  of  the  times  for 
the  modern  sons  and  daughters  of  Zion  ?  Riches  and  culture,  ease  and 
luxury.    Everything  is  money  and  money  is  everything. 

The  Golden  Key  unlocks  all  doors,  that  is,  it  prys  them  open. 

Plenty  of  money  entitles  you  to  anything  and  everything,  honor, 
society  and  emoluments.  The  rising  generation,  who  are  poor,  look 
upon  this  pleasure-loving  people  with  envy  and  a  yearning  for  worldly 
things,  and  as  the  spirit  of  the  age  in  which  we  live  takes  hold  of  them, 
they  assert  their  individual  independence  and  break  away  from  what 
is  called  "old  fogy  ideas,  old  bigotries,  old  superstitions,"  and  go 
recklessly  wild,  at  sixty  miles  an  hour,  claiming  what  is  termed  the 
"new  Liberty  of  the  twentieth  century,"  and  run  daringly  into  forbidden 
pastures  Today  all  over  America  we  see  everywhere  amongst  the 
rich  and  poor,  the  cultured,  educated  and  ignorant,  the  indications  of  the 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


sensual  tendencies  of  the  age,  forgetting  for  the  moment  the  degradation 
and  destruction  to  which  such  a  life  leads. 

No  single  instance  can  be  given  as  evidence  that  unlawful  sensual 
pleasure  can  be  indulged  in  without  paying  for  it  a  thousand  times  in 
pain  and  remorse. 

"The  danger  signals  are  set  up  at  the  gate  of  the  garden  of  sensunl 
pleasure,  and  the  angel  stands  with  his  sword  of  flame,  and  no  man, 
woman,  youth  or  maiden  enters  unsmitten  of  him."  "In  the  path  of 
sensuality  in  all  its  multiplied  forms  our  heavenly  Father  has  placed 
barriers  mountain  high  to  stop  us  and  frighten  us  back  from  ruin, 
disease  and  degradation." 

As  wealth  increases  in  any  country  and  with  any  people,  the 
tendency  to  sensuality,  through  the  many  temptations  of  ease,  idleness 
and  gratification  of  ones  appetite,  the  elevation  of  fashion,  style  and  in 
living  beyond  a  certain  point  of  safety  and  security,  is  the  cause  of  the 
downfall  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  God's  children. 

"That  'money  devil',  if  not  used  in  doing  good,  is  the  lion  right  across  the 
highway  of  our  future,  standing,  teasing,  menacing — just  at  the  forks  of  the 
road,  to  lead  us  to  ruin  and  unhappiness.  If  the  roofs  could  be  lifted  off  the 
palaces  of  the  rich,  what  sights  might  not  be  seen,  what  skeletons  in  the  closets, 
what  sorrows,  what  shams,  what  sights." — Watson. 

If  we  open  our  eyes  to  the  danger  that  menaces  the  rising  genera- 
tion, life  would  seem  to  be  a  very  dangerous  sea,  if  we  take  note  of  the 
ruined  thousands  that  strew  its  shores. 

We  therefore  cannot  look  upon  death  as  a  great  sorrow  and 
calamity,  when  it  involves  no  stain  of  honor  and  no  loss  of  character. 
We  wisely  conclude  the  hand  of  Providence  is  in  it  and  good  must  come 
out  of  it  and  we  are  comforted. 

When  we  contemplate  and  think  of  our  young  men  and  women 
with  their  bright  hopes  of  love,  of  truth  and  purity,  of  honor,  of 
manhood  and  womanhood,  of  genius  and  talent,  of  all  goodly  gifts 
from  God,  of  mind,  of  all  sweet  affections,  and  aspirations,  gone  down, 
blotted  out  and  spoiled,  we  cannot  feel  otherwise,  be  as  hopeful  and 
cheerful  as  we  may,  that  life  is  dangerous  unless  we  are  guided  and 
influenced  by  the  holy  Spirit  and  directed  by  steady  hands,  by  men 
and  women  as  teachers  of  virtue,  truthfulness  and  happiness,  who  are 
not  afraid  to  speak  in  the  name  of  the  Lgrd. 

The  fruit  of  religion  manifests  itself  in  the  lives  of  men.  By 
their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them.  There  can  be  no  deception  by  men 
who  love  God  and  keep  his  commandments.  We  are  one  and  all  God's 
children.  He  created  us  and  he  never  created  a  failure,  and  he  created 
you. 

Men  are  that  they  might  have  joy.  Happiness  is  the  object  and 
design  of  our  creation  and  will  be  to  the  end  of  our  existence  if  we 
pursue  the  path  that  leads  to  it.  This  path  is  virtue,  uprightness, 
faithfulness,  holiness.  To  keep  God's  commandments  we  must  know 
them.    To  know  them  we  must  read  the  scriptures  and  reoent  and 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


131 


be  in  tune  with  the  holy  Spirit  and  he  will  lead  us  into  all  truth  and 
show  us  things  to  come.  I  promise  you  that  you  shall  hear  a  voice 
behind  you  saying,  this  is  the  way,  walk  ye  in  it. 

Remember  this  always :  Temptation  somewhere  in  the  life  of  all 
finds  us,  as  this  life  is  a  testing  time.  Therefore,  watch  and  pray  and 
ask  God  to  leave  us  not  in  temptation  but  deliver  us  from  evil,  as 
temptation  is  ever  lying  in  wait  and  in  a  thousand  forms  is  temptation 
repeated. 

There  is  divine  wisdom  in  praying  always  and  avoiding  the  very 
appearance  of  evil. 

There  is  very  little  use  of  preaching  religion  or  morals,  or  honesty, 
virtue  and  truthfulness  to  those  whose  motives  and  tendencies  all  point 
toward  vice  and  sensuality  unless  they  repent  and  sin  no  more.  These 
wild,  reckless,  dissipated  young  people  will  not  come  to  us,  we  must 
reach  out  a  helping  hand  and  go  to  them. 

This  great  change  for  the  uplift  and  betterment  of  this  great 
country — Zion,  the  pure  in  heart — rests  very  largely,  almost  entirely, 
with  the  home  and  the  parents. 

We  must,  for  the  safety  of  the  youth  of  Zion,  come  back  to  Jesus 
Christ's  religion  and  its  spiritual  forces.  We  must  teach  the  gospel  of 
repentance  and  forgiveness  which  has  made  men's  and  women's  lives 
happier,  tasks  lighter,  judgment  steadier,  as  it  truly  comforts  the  discon- 
solate, forgotten  sinner,  and  makes  to  them  a  clear  life  of  virtue,  love 
and  happiness. 

No  child  of  God  can  escape  Christ's  religion,  intelligence  and 
knowledge,  of  the  right  kind,  walks  ever  close  to  religion. 

My  conclusion  is :  There  is  just  one  great,  big,  life-and-death  duty 
of  the  parents  of  children,  the  Church  and  the  State,  and  that  is,  to 
keep  every  boy  and  girl  under  proper  schooling  and  give  to  them 
"love,  pleasure,  work  and  worship." 

You  good  people  and  parents  living  in  the  country,  on  your  farms, 
I  plead  with  you  not  to  send  your  children  to  cities  where  the  beautiful 
spirit  of  things  God  created  perish. 

Let  them  live  in  the  open,  in  the  beautiful  valleys,  on  the  moun- 
tains, in  God's  sunshine,  near  streams,  rivers,  and  trees  and  let  his 
Spirit  teach  them  of  the  things  of  God. 

My  testimony,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  all  confidence,  is  that  I  know 
this  work  is  true.  I  have  tested  it  out.  I  have  found  God.  I'  am  a  man 
of  weakness ;  I  am  a  man  full  of  faults ;  but  God  knows  I  have  given 
him  the  best  effort  there  was  in  me.  i'  know  God  lives,  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world ;  and  when  men 
have  tempted  me  to  deny  this — which  they  have  tried  to  do — I  have 
talked  to  some  of  them,  learned  men,  I  have  talked  to  doctors,  I  have 
talked  to  young  men  who  have  gone  out  and  filled  missions,  come  home 
and  got  education,  and  they  have  tried  to  burn  all  my  bridges  behind 
me ;  but,  thank  God,  I  had  a  testimony,  and  I  knew  !  I  have  told  them : 
"in  what  you  offer  me  there  is  no  happiness."    If  any  man  can  prove 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  me  that  Joseph  Smith  is  not  a  prophet  of  God,  he  has  taken  every- 
thing; he  has  burned  every  bridge  behind  me.  I  never  saw  the  Prophet, 
but  I  have  heard  my  father  often  talk  about  him  and  I  have  read  his 
revelations  and  his  prophecies,  as  a  witness  for  God,  and  I  know  they 
are  true.  He  is  a  prophet  of  God.  I  sustain  the  Church  and  uphold 
the  hands  of  the  priesthood  as  best  I  know  how.   God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  earnestly  hope  that  I  may  enjoy  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  while 
I  sta'nd  before  you.  It  seems  to  me  that  anyone  who  has  made  himself 
at  all  familiar  with  the  history  of  the  world  must  be  deeply  impressed 
with  the  fact  that  God  has  been  over  all,  that  he  has  directed  the  des- 
tinies of  his  children  here  upon  this  planet.  Notwithstanding  this, 
however,  he  has  given  unto  them  their  free  agency,  for  he  has  decreed 
that  men  shall  be  free  from  the  very  beginning. 

The  Lord  asked  his  servant  Job :  "Where  wast  thou  when  I 
laid  the  foundations  of  the  earth?  *  *  *  when  the  morning  stars 
sang  together  and  all  the  sons  of  God  shouted  for  joy?" 

Modern  revelation  has  made  it  plain  what  this  occasion  was.  The 
proclamation  of  God's  plan  of  salvation,  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
in  which  the  free  agency  of  man  obtains.  In  order  to  carry  out  this 
plan  it  was  necessary  to  create  this  earth  where  God's  children  might 
receive  bodies  of  flesh  an4  bone  and,  the  recollection  of  their  spirit 
life  being  withheld  from  them,  and  with  a  knowledge  of  good  and 
evil,  they  might  be  proved  whether,  in  the  exercise  of  their  free  agency, 
they  would  "do  all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God  shall  com- 
mand them."  The  creation  of  a  world  land  redeeming  it  from  the 
fajll,  which  was  also  contemplated,  required  the  service  of  One  en- 
dowed with  Godlike  power  and  the  Lord  said:  "Whom  shall  I  send? 
And  one  answered  like  unto  the  Son  of  man:  Here  am  I,  send  me." 
Father  thy  will  be  done  and  the  glory  be  thine  forever.  But  Satan 
also  came,  even  Lucifer,  a  son  of  the  morning  and  said :  Behold  here 
am  I,  send  me,  I  will  be  thy  son  and  I  will  redeem  all  mankind  that 
one  soul  shall  not  be  lost  and  surely  I  will  do  it ;  wherefore  give  me 
thine  honor.  "And  the  Lord  said :  I  will  send  the  first."  And  Satan 
rebelled  against  God  and  was  cast  down  and  many  followed  after  him. 

Thus  it  was  that  the  First  Born  in  the  spirit,  and  the  Only  Begotten 
in  the  flesh,  became  the  great  champion  of  human  liberty  from  the  very 
beginning,  and  throughout  all  the  history  of  the  world. 

Let  us  for  a  few  moments  contemplate  some  of  the  things  that 
have  transpired  in  the  history  of  the  world,  the  rise  and  fall  of  great 
empires,  the  mighty  battles  for  human  liberty  which  have  been  fought. 

Who  cannot  see  the  overruling  hand  of  Providence?  When 
Miltiades,  the  hero  of  the  battle  of  Marathon,  with  a  small  army  of 
9,000  men  defeated  and  put  to  rout  100,000  Persians,  6,000  of  whom 
fell  upon  the  battlefield  with  ja  loss  to  the  Greek  army  of  only  192, 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


133 


who  can  doubt  that  they  were  aided  and  upheld  by  an  Almighty  power 
directing  the  destiny  of  mankind?  The  freedom  of  the  world  was 
hanging  in  the  balance.  Which  shall  prevail,  Asiatic  despotism  and 
superstition,  or  the  new  freedom  and  civilization?  And  ten  years  later, 
Xerxes,  with  the  largest  army  ever  mustered  in  the  history  of  the  world, 
until  the  great  world  war,  invaded  Greece  but  was  held  at  Thermopylae 
for  days  by  Leonidas  and  his  brave  300  Sparitans ;  every  one  of  whom, 
however,  died  in  defending  the  country  rather  than  surrender,  thus 
bringing  upon  themselves  a  fame  and  glory  that  shall  endure  as  long 
as  time  shall  last. 

Then  Themistocles,  commander  of  the  naval  forces,  learning  of 
the  Persians,  final  passage  through  the  pass  at  Thermopylae  on  their 
way  to  Athens,  boarded  the  inhabitants  of  that  city  on  his  ships  and 
conveyed  them  to  Salamis,  and  then  with  his  350  war  galleys  attacked 
the  Persian  fleet  of  1,200  ships  which  had  already  sustanied  severe 
losses  and  had  been  thrown  into  confusion  by  the  violent  storms  which 
they  encountered  on  the  sea.  Again  the  Persians  were  put  to  rout  and 
sustained  a  loss  of  200  ships.  In  the  following  year  the  land  forces 
continued  to  fight  until  September,  when  the  Athenians  and  their 
allies  with  an  army  of  70,000  men,  under  command  of  Aristides,  fought 
the  final  battle  at  Plataea  and  on  the  same  day  the  combined  naval 
and  military  forces  of  the  Spartans,  Athenians  and  their  allies  under 
Prince  Pausanias  defeated  the  Persians  by  land  and  by  sea  at  and 
off  Mt.  Mycale,  just  opposite  the  Island  of  Samos.  Who  can  read 
of  these  thrilling  and  soul-stirring  events  without  a  sincere  feeling 
of  gratitude  to  the  Greeks  for  the  great  service  they  rendered  to  man- 
kind in  the  great  cause  of  human  liberty,  and  who  can  doubt  that  they 
were  guided  and  upheld  by  an  overruling  Providence,  whose  cause 
is  our  cause,  even  the  cause  of  Liberty.  It  does  not  detract  from  the 
honor  due  to  the  Greeks  to  say  that  God  used  them  as  instruments  in 
his  hand  to  further  his  divine  purposes.  Surely  Providence  is  over 
all.  History  is  replete  with  illustrations :  the  conquests  of  Alexander, 
the  great;  we  heard  yesterday  how  through  him  the  Greek  language 
became  the  language  of  his  empire  and  became  the  medium  of  pub- 
lishing to  the  world  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  which  is  the  truth  that 
shall  make  men  free  indeed. 

Not  always  have  the  victories  of  great  men  been  based  upon  the 
principles  of  righteousness ;  nevertheless  the  purposes  of  the  Almighty 
cannot  be  defeated,  for  he  overrules  in  all,  and  often  "moves  in  a 
mysterious  way  his  wonders  to  perform." 

Shall  I  mention  Julius  Caesar,  Napoleon  Boneparte  and  Gustavus 
Adolphus,  the  "Lion  of  the  North,"  Luther,  Melanchton  and  Zwingli, 
and  the  other  great  reformers?  Time  will  not  permit,  but  in  the 
achievements  and  victories  of  each  and  all  of  these  great  men,  one  can- 
not but  see  and  recognize  the  Divine  purpose  in  breaking  the  chains 
of  superstition,  intolerance  and  slavery,  and  leading  mankind  out  of 
the  darkness  that  covered  the  earth  and  the  gross  darkness  in  which 
the  people  were  benighted. 

Was  not  the  great  Columbus  inspired  of  the  Lord  to  cross  the 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


unknown  seas  and  discover  the  western  world?  What  a  wonderful 
stride  in  the  cause  of  human  liberty !  America,  a  choice  land  above  all 
other  lands,  withheld  during  the  many  centuries  of  the  past  to  become 
a  place  of  refuge  for  the  downtrodden  peoples  of  the  old  world,  to 
become  the  habitation  of  free  men  where  no  kings  shall  oppress  or  hold 
the  reins  of  government,  as  the  Nephite  prophets  have  foretold,  and 
how  literally  have  their  predictions  been  fulfilled ! 

Then  came  Washington,  the  father  of  his  country,  who  fought  the 
revolutionary  battles  which  gave  us  our  national  independence ;  Hamil- 
ton, the  constructive  genius  of  the  constitution  of  our  country,  and 
Jefferson,  that  great  champion  of  the  rights  of  men,  who  wrote  the 
Declaration  of  Independence  and  inspired  his  fellow-countrymen  with 
love  for  the  principles  of  human  liberty. 

Another  mighty  champion  arose  in  the  coming  of  Abraham  Lin- 
coln, the  great  emancipator,  who  broke  the  chains  of  slavery  and  fought 
that  these  precious  principles  for  which  our  revolutionary  fathers  had 
fought  "might  not  perish  from  the  earth."  And  later  still  came 
Woodrow  Wilson,  who,  when  the  freedom  of  the  world  was  in  im- 
minent danger,  led  the  forces  of  America  in  the  greatest  conflict  that 
the  world  had  ever  known,  that  it  might  be  made  safe  for  democracy. 

Great  and  mighty  are  these  men  of  America.  How  our  hearts 
swell  with  patriotic  pride  when  we  contemplate  their  achievements.  Let 
us  then  honor  them,  and  let  me  here  say  that  we  honor  them  most 
when  we  say,  as  all  Latter-day  Saints  do  say,  that  God  raised  them 
up  and  inspired  them  with  his  holy  Spirit  for  the  futherance  of  his 
great  cause,  the  cause  of  human  liberty.  Let  us  not  think  even  for  a 
moment  that  liberty  is  the  gift  of  any  government  or  any  nation.  Oh, 
no !  Life  and  liberty  are  our  inalienable  rights  and  were  vouchsafed  unto 
us  in  that  primeval  council  when  our  great  champion,  even  Jesus  Christ, 
said :  "Here  am  I,  send  me"  for  he  came  and  organized  this  earth  as 
a  dwelling  place  for  the  children  of  God,  for  you  and  me: 

To  live  and  to  be  free, 
To  worship  God  alone 
As  conscience  guideth  me, 
As  my  own  heart  is  prone ; 
For  these  are  rights  God  given, 
He  gave  them  all  to  me, 
They  emanate  from  heaven, 
E'en  life  and  liberty. 

This  is  the  thought  that  comes  into  my  mind  when  I  contemplate 
the  history  of  the  world,  that  Providence  is  over  all. 

This  human  liberty  for  which  these  mighty  men,  to  whom  I  have 
alluded,  have  struggled,  great  and  glorious  though  it  is,  is  after  all  only 
a  measure  of  civil  liberty.  There  is  a  greater  freedom  to  which  we 
should  aspire ;  for,  let  it  be  known  that  even  in  this  great  and  glorious 
republic,  the  greatest  one  that  ever  existed  upon  the  face  of  the  earth, 
where  the  greatest  measure  of  human  liberty  is  meted  out  to  our 
Father's  children,  in  this  land  of  the  free  and  home  of  the  brave,  we 
are  not  free.    "The  whole  world  lieth  in  sin  and  groaneth  under  dark- 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


135 


ness  and  under  the  bondage  of  sin,"  but  the  truth  that  emanated  from 
God,  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  was  proclaimed  in  that 
primeval  day  shall  make  us  free  indeed  if  we  will  only  receive  and 
obey  it.  And  who  have  been  the  champions  of  this  greater  freedom? 
First  and  foremost  of  all  was  the  Redeemer  of  mankind,  he  that  was 
in  the  beginning.  He  came  in  the  meridian  of  time  and  ministered  the 
law  of  liberty  and  freedom  among  the  children  of  men.  Many  others 
have  been  sent,  other  great  and  noble  ones,  but  I  shall  not  take  the 
time  to  enumerate  them  all  but  there  was  Abraham,  whom  God  chose 
among  the  great  ones,  for  he  knew  him  before  he  was  born  and  chose 
him  to  become  the  father  of  the  faithful.  And  there  was  Moses,  to 
whom  the  Lord  gave  the  perfect  law  of  liberty,  even  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  which  is  the  higher  law.  But  the  children  of  Israel  were 
not  prepared  for  that  great  law  of  liberty,  that  higher  law,  and  the 
plates  upon  which  it  was  engraven  were  broken.  Mpses  went  up  into 
the  mount  again  and  returned  with  the  law  of  carnal  commandments, 
that  the  people  might  repent  of  sin.  It  was  the  gospel  of  repentance ; 
"Thou  shalt  not  kill ;  thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery ;  thou  shalt  not 
steal."  These  great  commandments  have  been  thundered  down  to  us 
through  all  the  ages  from  Mount  Sinai,  and  are  still  in  force  among 
the  children  of  men.  Why?  That  they  might  be  liberated  from  the 
bondage  of  sin. 

At  all  times  these  champions  of  liberty  have  been  opposed  by  that 
arch  enemy  of  God,  even  Statan,  that  rebelled  against  God  in  the  begin- 
ning, and  those  who  followed  after  him,  and,  as  always,  through  human 
instrumentality,  they  killed  the  prophets,  they  persecuted  the  saints,  they 
crucified  the  Savior  of  the  world  and  put  to  death  his  apostles,  those 
mighty  men  of  God  who  preached  his  gospepl  in  all  the  then  .known 
world,  and  transmitted  their  testimony  in  holy  writ  for  the  generations 
which  were  to  come.  Surely  power  was  given  unto  Satan  to  make  war 
with  the  Saints  and  overcome  them  as  John  the  Revelator  tells  us. 

The  darkness  that  followed  these  tragic  events  has  been  rightly 
called  the  dark  ages,  and  was  only  partly  dispelled  by  the  great  re- 
formers who  were,  however,  not  reformers  but  protestants  who  made 
effective  protest  against  the  darkness  and  tyranny  that  held  the  world 
in  spiritual  bondage  and  most  abominable  idolatry. 

All  these,  together  with  the  discovery  of  America  and  the  founding 
of  our  glorious  republic  under  the  guiding  hand  of  Providence,  were 
the  necessary  preliminary  preparations  for  the  restoration  of  his 
glorious  gospel  and  the  setting  up  of  his  Church  and  kingdom  upton 
the  earth,  never  to  be  thrown  down  nor  given  to  another  people ;  where 
the  perfect  law  of  liberty  shall  be  supreme  and  mankind  shall  be  liber- 
ated from  the  bondage  of  sin,  and  Satan  shall  be  bound  for  a  thou- 
sand years  during  the  great  millennial  reign  of  peace  when  Christ  shall 
be  ouif  king  and  subdue  all  enemies  under  his  feet. 

Therefore  God  raised  up  another  champion  of  human  liberty  even 
Joseph  Smith  the  great  prophet  of  the  latter  days,  to  usher  in  this 
glorious  dispensation,  the  climax  of  which,  not  yet  _  attained,  shall  be 
the  second  coming  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ. 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


But  Satan,  not  yet  bound,  came  again.  I  presume  he  will  con- 
tinue to  come  until  the  great  battle  will  be  fought  on  the  field  of 
Armageddon.  So  he  came  in  the  days  of  Joseph  Smith  through  whom 
the  gospel  had  been  restored,  and  the  Church  of  Christ  had  again  been 
established  on  the  earth.  Through  the  human  instrumentality  of  a 
cruel  mob,  he  was  murdered  in  cold  blood,  another  prophet  of  the  living 
God ;  but  not  until  those  principles  which  have  within  them  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation,  the  principles  that  liberate  mankind  from  the 
bondage  of  sin,  had  been  established  among  the  Saints  of  the  latter 
days.  Let  us  then  carry  on  the  work  so  well  begun  until  its  final  con- 
summation. Let  us  rejoice  in  the  assurance  which  we  have  of  its  final 
triumph.  And  may  our  hearts  be  filled  with  gratitude  to  our  heavenly 
Father  that  he  has  fought  our  battles  and  will  lead  us  on  to  victory 
if  we  will  do  our  part.  And  let  us  put  our  trust  in  him  and  have  an 
abiding  faith  that  "Providence  is  over  all."  This  is  my  earnest  prayer 
through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Come  let  us  anew  our  journey  pursue." 
The  .benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  J.  Berkeley  Larson, 
president  of  the  Shelley  stake  of  Zion. 

The  conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


CONCLUDING  SESSION 

On  Tuesday  afternoon,  October  5,  1926,  the  concluding  session 
of  the  ninety-seventh  Semi-Annual  Conference  was  held  in  the  Taber- 
nacle. All  the  seats  in  the  main  hall  and  galleries  were  comfortably 
filled. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided,  and  at  2  o'clock  announced  that 
the  congregation  would  sing,  "Earth  with  her  ten  thousand  flowers." 

After  singing,  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Wallace  Calder,  presi- 
dent of  the  Uintah  stake  of  Zion. 

The  Congregation  sang,  "Do  what  is  right,  the  day-dawn  is 
breaking." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

President  of  the  California  Mission 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  during  the  short  time  I 
occupy  this  position  I  may  be  sustained  by  your  faith  and  sympathy 
and  by  the  blessing  and  inspiration  of  the  holy  Spirit.  I  feel  that  it 
is  a  very  important  thing  to  stand  in  this  pulpit,  and  claim  the  attention 
of  so  large  a  number  of  people.  I  am  very  thankful  for  the  oppor- 
tunity and  feel  it  is  a  very  great  honor. 

I  am  glad  to  be  able  to  say  to  this  congregation  that  in  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 


137 


California  mission  we  are  still  endeavoring,  to  the  best  of  our  ability, 
to  bring  to  the  attention  of  the  people  of-  that  mission  the  wonderful 
work  of  the  Lord.  We.  continue  to  bear  testimony  concerning  its 
restoration  and  the  manner  in  which  it  was  brought  from  heaven  to 
earth,  and  to  testify  concerning  the  divine  authority  which  has  always 
been  essential  for  man  whenever  the  Lord  has  had  a  message  to  de- 
liver to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth. 

We  number  in  missionaries  in  California  about  140,  a  little  more 
than  40  of  this  number  being  lady  missionaries,  and  the  remainder  being 
as  a  rule  young  men,  'most  of  whom  were  ordained  elders  in  the  Church 
as  they  received  their  call  to  go  abroad  as  representatives  of  the  work  of 
the  Lord.  • 

I  have  been  thinking,  during  this  conference,  particularly  when 
Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney  was  talking  to  the  people,  of  the  long  ago  in 
my  own  missionary  experience-  I  went  out  forty-five  years  ago  in 
company  with  Brother  Orson  F.  Whitney  and  a  few  other  brethren 
who  were  called  at  the  general  conference  to  go  to  Great  Britain  and 
to  other  sections  of  the  European  mission.  I  have  a  most  distinct 
recollection  of  reading,  in  a  little  journal  that  I  kept  while  on  that 
mission,  words  that  had  been  written  during  the  first  few  days  of  my 
missionary  labors.  I  was  sent  into  the  county  of  Ayre  in  Scotland 
and  my  lot  was  cast  with  a  coal  mining  community.  Of  course,  the 
experience  that  I  had  at  the  beginning  of  my  ministry  was  something 
altogether  strange  and  new  to  me.  When  I  was  released  to  return  home, 
as  I  was  packing  up,  that  little  journal  that  I  kept  accidentally  opened 
before  my  eyes,  and  I  read  a  statement  to  this  effect:  "Here  I  am, 
far  from  my  home  and  people.  God  help  me-"  Those  words  told  the 
story.  I  certainly  felt  that  I  was  a  stranger  in  a  strange  land.  I 
wondered  whether  it  would  be  possible  for  me  to  continue  in  that 
community  as  a  representative  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  for  the  period  of  time  that  usually  falls  to  the  lot  of  a 
missionary.  In  those  first  few  days  I  did  not  feel  that  it  would  be 
possible,  and  yet,  thanks  be  to  God  and  to  his  marvelous  providences, 
and  I  trust  and  believe  to  the  help  and  light  and  companionship  of 
the  holy  Spirit,  I  was  not  only  enabled  to  remain  in  the  mission  field 
during  the  allotted  time,  but  I  found  during  that  period  that  wonderful 
joy  which  is  spoken  of  by  missionaries  who  have  endeavored  in  their 
weak  and  humble  manner  to  expound  the  doctrines  of  the  gospel,  in- 
viting men  and  women  to  an  investigation  of  the  message  revealed  by 
the  Lord  our  God.  I  have  thought  of  that  period  during  these  con- 
ference proceedings.  I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  meeting  with  many 
missionaries  who  have  labored  in  California  during  the  past  few  days ; 
and  I  am  happy  to  say  that  these  missionaries  with  whom  I  have  met 
have  expressed  the  feeling  unanimously,  I  think,  that  they  would  be 
very  happy  indeed  if  opportunity  could  be  given  them,  and  financial 
conditions  were  favorable,  to  return  again  and  take  up  their  missionary 
work. 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


It  gives  me  pleasure  to  report  to  the  fathers  and  mothers  who  may 
be  in  this  congregation  that  so  far  as  the  California  mission  is  con- 
cerned, we  feel  that  we  have  been  abundantly  blessed  of  our  Father 
in  heaven  during  the  past  six  months.  The  missionaries  of  the  mission 
have  had  better  health  during  that  period  than  during  any  similar 
period  of  my  ministry  as  president.  We  have  had  but  very  little 
sickness.  We  have  not  had  any  serious  illness  among  the  missionaries, 
and  we  feel  to  praise  the  name  of  the  Lord  our  God  for  his  blessings 
unto  us. 

It  is  a  satisfaction  to  be  able  to  report  that  we  are  a  little  stronger 
in  numbers,  a  little  more  firmly  rooted,  throughout  the  California  mis- 
sion at  the  present  time,  than  we  were  six  months  ago.  There  are  a 
few  more  branches  in  the  mission;  there  are  a  few  more  Mutual  Im- 
provement organizations ;  there  are  a  few  more  Sunday  schools ;  there 
are  a  few  more  Relief  Societies ;  and  there  are  a  few  more  Primary 
associations  in  the  mission  than  were  there  at  our  last  general  con- 
ference. We  feel  encouraged  in  the  work  that  has  been  entrusted  into 
our  hands-  I  am  glad  to  say  that  we  are  a  united  band  of  men  and 
women.  There  is  no  ill  feeling  in  the  ranks  of  the  missionaries ;  they 
are  all  earnest  and  active  and  willing  to  play  their  part,  ready  to  respond 
to  any  demand  that  is  made  upon  them  to  go  and  come  as  they  may 
be  directed  by  proper  authority,  and  they  are  giving  the  very  best  that 
is  in  them  to  establish  the  work  of  God  and  to  spread  the  message 
of  truth  among  the  people  with  whom  they  are  brought  in  contact. 
They  are  not  mighty  men.  They  are  not  wonderful  or  strong  men, 
but  they  are  just  the  kind  of  men  and  women  spoken  of  in  the  holy 
scriptures,  when  the  inspired  apostle  made  the  declaration :  "For  ye  see 
your  calling,  brethren,  how  that  not  many  wise  men  after  the  flesh,  not 
many  mighty,  not  many  noble,  are  called :  But  God  hath  chosen  the 
foolish  things  of  the  world  to  confound  the  wise."  We  feel  that  we 
are  thus  called- 

The  missionaries  feel  that  they  need  the  help  of  Almighty  God,  and 
I  think  it  is  a  good  thing  to  have  that  feeling,  to  realize  that  they  have 
been  called  to  a  labor  that  requires  greater  qualifications,  greater  power 
than  men  and  women  are  possessed  of  naturally.  The  missionaries 
have  that  feeling,  and  yet  it  is  wonderful  the  labor  they  perform,  the 
zeal  they  manifest,  the  faith  they  develop  as  they  labor  in  striving  to 
preach  the  gospel  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  For  they  do  make 
the  discovery  that  they  are  in  very  deed  the  servants  of  God,  and  we 
try  to  impress  that  upon  their  minds.  I  believe  devoutly  in  the  doctrine 
that  has  been  advocated  during  this  conference,  that  is,  that  the  Lord 
God  of  heaven  has  promised  that  there  will  be  great  things  follow  the 
testimony  of  his  servants ;  that  after  they  have  delivered  their  testimony 
to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  that  testimony  shall  be  backed  up  by 
the  Lord  God  of  heaven,  with  the  vivid  lightnings,  with  the  thunders 
of  heaven,  with  the  sea  heaving  itself  beyond  its  bounds,  until  all  things 
shall  be  in  commotion,  and  men's  hearts  shall  fail  them  with  fear  because 


Elder  Joseph  w.  McMurrin  139 

of  the  things  that  will  come  upon  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth.  I  believe 
it,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  I  try  according  to  my  power  and 
ability  to  impress  upon  the  missionaries  that  they  are  in  very  truth  the 
servants  of  the  Lord  our  God,  and  that  they  have  been  clothed  with 
authority  from  on  high,  that  whether  men  recognize  and  respect  that 
authority  or  not,  the  Lord  God  is  conscious  that  he  has  called  them  to 
his  ministry,  and  I  believe  with  all  my  soul  that  he  will  magnify  them, 
maintain  them  in  their  service,  and  that  he  will  finally  bring  to  pass 
all  that  he  has  spoken  by  the  mouths  of  holy  prophets  in  relation  to  the 
latter  times. 

I  hope  the  men  of  Israel  who  are  before  me  feel  the  responsibility 
that  rests  upon  them  in  connection  with  the  delivering  of  the  gospel 
message  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth.  For  if  God  has  spoken  the 
truth,  and  we  know  he  speaks  only  the  truth,  the  world  is  famishing  for 
the  truth  and  power  which  brings  salvation  to  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth.  Men  who  have  received  this  divine  authority  by  the  coming  of 
holy  angels,  who  brought  back  to  mortal  men  the  power  and  authority 
that  had  been  lost  from  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  owe  something  to 
the  children  of  men.  I  hope  that  this  call,  which  has  been  made  again 
during  this  conference  for  men  of  experience  to  go  abroad  in  the 
preaching  of  the  gospel,  will  meet  with  a  hearty  response,  that  each  man 
will  feel  that  it  means  me,  and  not  think  it  is  my  neighbor,  and  that  all 
who  hold  the  Priesthood  will  be  anxious  to  play  their  part. 

I  feel  that  I  am  under  obligation  to  lift  up  my  voice  in  proclamation 
of  these  principles  that  have  been  revealed,  for  in  the  mercy  and 
providences  of  God  some  man  found  my  own  parents,  and  other  mem- 
bers of  the  MjcMurrin  family,  in  far-off  Scotland,  and  through  their 
teachings  and  testimonies  and  the  help  of  God  they  were  brought  to 
believe  the  truth  and  came  to  this  land;  and  in  this  land,  the  land  of 
Zion,  I  was  given  birth.  I  praise  God  for  that.  I  want  to  render  to 
my  fellowmen  in  some  degree  some  such  service  as  has  been  rendered 
to  my  own  people.  I  am  under  obligation  to  make  proclamation  of  the 
gospel,  and  every  one  of  you  is  under  obligation  to  play  your  part. 
He  that  is  warned  shall  warn  his  neighbor,  is  the  commandment  of 
God  in  the  revelations  that  have  been  given  in  our  own  time-  Let  us 
believe  the  scriptures.  "Be  not  deceived;  God  is  not  mocked:  for 
whatsoever  a  man  soweth  that  shall  he  also  reap.  For  he  that  soweth 
to  his  flesh  shall  of  the  flesh  reap  corruption;  but  he  that  soweth  to 
the  Spirit  shall  of  the  Spirit  reap  life  everlasting.  And  let  us  not  be 
weary  in  well  doing :  for  in  due  season  we  shall  reap,  if  we  faint  not." 

When  I  look  into  the  faces  of  my  companion  mission  presidents, 
I  feel  that  it  would  be  presumptuous  on  my  part  to  take  more  of  this 
precious  time.  I  glory  in -my  membership  in  the  Church  of  Christ. 
I  have  proved"  to  my  own  full  satisfaction  that  it  is  the  Church  of 
Christ.  "My  doctrine,"  said  the  Redeemer,  and  that  was  all  the 
Sons  of  God  could  say— "my  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his  that  sent 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


me.  If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether 
it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself." 

I  have  tested  that  promise  and  doctrine,  and  I  have  had  made 
manifest  to  me  that  this  man  who  has  been  spoken  of,  Joseph  Smith, 
was  raised  up  by  the  Lord  our  God  to  reintroduce  among  men  the 
doctrines  of  the  everlasting  gospel.  It  has  brought  joy  unspeakable  to 
my  soul.  In  like  manner,  in  fulfilment  of  the  promise  made  in  the 
closing  declaration  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  I  have  had  made  manifest 
to  me,  not  through  my  father,  not  through  any  president  or  bishop,  or 
apostle,  but  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  the  Book  of  Mormon 
is  the  word  of  God,  and  I  hope  every  man  and  woman  in  this  congre- 
gation has  that  same  knowledge,  that  same  understanding,  that  it  is  a 
true,  wonderful,  glorious  record  of  the  ancient  inhabitants  of  the  land. 

God  help  us  to  stand  for  the  truth,  and  not  to  be  led  away  by  the 
whims  and  doctrines  of  men  that  would  blind  us  and  rob  us  of  our 
salvation,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen- 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  would  like  to  hear  from  .many  of  our  brethren.  We  will  ask 
Brother  Richard  C.  May  to  be  our  first  speaker,  and  Brother  Elmer  F. 
Taylor  to  follow  him.  These  are  the  only  brethren  presiding  over  stakes 
who  have  not  either  prayed  or  spoken  in  conference  since  1919,  except 
those  who  have  been  appointed  during  this  year.  Following  these 
brethren  we  would  like  to  hear  from  Brother  J.  Wyley  Sessions,  who 
has  returned  from  South  Africa.  Brother  O.  B.  Peterson,  who  has 
returned  from  Tahiti ;  Brother  Mark  V.  Coombs,  from  Tonga ;  Eugene 
J.  Neff,  from  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  and  Russell  H.  Blood  from  the 
French  mission. 

ELDER  RICHARD  C.  MAY 

President  of  the  Minidoka  Stake 

Brethren  and  sisters :  I  wish  to  extend  the  love  and  sympathy  and 
good  fellowship  of  the  people  of  the  Minidoka  stake  to  the  presidency 
and  all  the  general  authorities  and  all  the  people  of  this  Church.  This 
is  an  experience  that  I  have  never  before  had.  I  remember  many  years 
ago,  when  just  a  mere  boy,  of  sitting  in  a  little  country  meeting  house 
and  school  house  combined  on  a  Sunday  when  the  home  missionaries 
came  to  the  ward.  And  as  those  brethren  sat  up  on  the  stand  and  in  their 
turn  talked  to  us,  I  thought  to  myself,  what  wonderful  looking  men. 
I  wonder  if  that  opportunity  will  ever  come  to  me.  And  from  that 
time  to  this  present  moment  I  have  tried  to  do  my  duty  in  the  Church, 
have  tried  to  help  to  build  up  the  kingdom  of  the  Lord  to  the  best  of 
my  ability,  and  I  thank  him  from  the  depths  of  my  heart  for  the 
opportunities  that  have  come  to  me  in  helping  to  carry  on  this  work. 
I  thank  him  that  I  was  born  of  goodly  parents,  and  I  thank  him  that  in 
the  home  of  my  parents  I  have  the  first  time  to  hear  either  of  them 


ELDER  RICHARD  C.  MAY 


141 


speak  disparagingly  of  any  of  the  authorities  of  this  Church,  and  that 
teaching  has  been  inculcated  into  my  system  until  I  would  be  afraid 
to  raise  my  voice  in  criticism  of  any  of  these,  the  Lord's  anointed.  I 
hope  and  trust  that  while  I  sojourn  in  the  earth  I  shall  be  privileged 
to  do  the  best  I  can  in  bringing  souls  unto  Christ  and  helping  to  build 
up  his  kingdom  here  in  this  earth,  and  I  will  give  to  him  the  praise  and 
the  honor  and  glory,  forever  and  ever.  Amen. 

ELDER  ELMER  F.  TAYLOR 

President  of  the  Young  Stake,  in  Colorado  and  New  Mexico 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  have  enjoyed  this  conference,  all  but 
one  thing,  and  that  is  I  have  had  a  dread  and  fear  that  I  might  be  called 
to  this  stand,  and  up  to  the  present  time  I  have  managed  to  avoid  meet- 
ing the  President  of  the  Church.  I  wanted  to  take  a  back  seat,  so 
to  speak.  But  I  am  not  ashamed,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  stand 
up  and  bear  my  testimony.  I  am  glad  to  be  here.  I  have  never  enjoyed 
myself  before  in  my  life  like  I  have  done  during  the  sessions  of  this 
great  conference.  This  is  my  first  experience  in  this  pulpit  and  I  have 
only  been  in  this  building  about  six  times  in  my  life.  My  father  drove 
the  second  wagon  that  came  into  this  valley  and  told  me  the  story  of  the 
pioneers,  and  I  have  a  love  for  this  country,  for  this  state,  and  when 
I  crossed  the  line  into  Utah,  I  said  in  my  heart,  "God  bless  Utah." 
That  is  the  way  I  feel  in  regard  to  this  part  of  the  country,  this  part  of 
the  Lord's  vineyard.  But  I  have  been  down  on  the  San  Juan  river 
almost  forty  years  of  my  life.  We  are  having  a  struggle  down  there, 
but  there  is  no  better  land  in  the  United  States  than  we  have  in  that  part 
of  the  country.  We  do  not  need  any  money,  but  we  need  about  a 
thousand  more  good,  faithful  Latter-day  Saints  who  are  not  afraid  of 
work  to  build  up  that  country. 

I  want  to  say  a  word  or  two  in  regard  to  the  picture  that  I  now 
see  before  me,  that  I  have  been  viewing  this  afternoon.  Not  having 
had  a  chance  before  to  go  before  the  general  authorities  of  the  Church 
and  speak  to  the  twenty-six  men  who  stand  at  the  head  of  this  great 
organization,  I  say  to  all  who  vare  here  today,  and  all  who  are  listening 
in,  that  in  my  judgment,  and  it  is  my  faith,  they  are  the  best  men  upon 
the  face  of  the  earth.  As  I  said  to  a  friend  of  mine  some  time  ago, 
we  are  not  naturally  better  than  the  people  of  the  world,  but  the  Church 
that  we  are  members  of,  and  the  kind  of  work  that  we  are  engaged  in, 
are  the  making  of  .  us,  and  will  make  of  us  the  best  people  upon  the  earth. 
I  thank  the  Lord  for  having  the  opportunity  of  having  had  as  guests 
in  my  home  the  men  who  represent  the  presidency  of  the  Church,  who 
come  down  from  time  to  time  to  visit  with  us  in  our  conferences.  We 
welcome  them  there,  and  all  the  members  of  the  General  Boards. 

I  do  not  desire  to  take  any  more  of  this  precious  time,  but  I  thank 
the  Lord  for  the  privilege  of  speaking  to  you  today,  and  do  so  in  the 
worthy  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


142 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

President  Sessions  presided  in  South  Africa  for  six  years,  and 
labored  about  a  year  trying  to  get  there. 

ELDER  J.  WYLEY  SESSIONS 

Former  President  of  the  South  African  Mission 

Trembling  though  I  am,  laboring  with  only  half  a  voice,  feeling  as 
humble  as  |I  ever  have  felt  in  my  life,  yet  my  heart  is  filled  with 
gratitude  for  the  privilege  of  bringing  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
the  greeting  of  your  brethren  and  sisters  from  the  most  distant  branch 
of  the  Church  on  this  great  globe.  As  I  bear  my  testimony  to  you,  I 
desire  to  bear  the  testimony  and  represent  the  saints  of  that  goodly 
land  of  South  Africa.  They  have  never  seen  a  member  of  the  general 
authorities  of  the  Church.  In  our  mission  we  have  never  been  blessed 
with  the  presence  of  one  of  these  men,  but  time  after  time  I  have  heard 
those  people  in  that  land  arise  to  their  feet  and  bear  witness  that  they 
know  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  they  know  that 
President  Grant  is  a  prophet  of  God,  and  I  am  authorized  by  them  to 
bring  that  message  to  you. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  how  we  have  longed  to  see  you  here  and  to 
meet  with  the  Saints  in  these  general  conferences,  but  we  were  too  far 
removed.  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  fourteen  to  fifteen  thousand  miles 
separated  from  you  was  not  a  great  enough  distance  to  separate  us  from 
the  same  good  spirit  that  has  prevailed  during  this  conference,  and  as 
the  general  conferences  have  been  held  every  year  about  this  time,  we 
arranged  so  that  some  of  the  conferences  in  the  mission  would  be  held 
at  the  same  time  as  you  are  holding  the  general  conferences  here.  I 
have  felt  time  and  time  again  that  the  Lord  was  blessing  us  with  the 
same  spirit  that  you  have  here. 

I  would  like  to  say  one  thing  to  the  fathers  and  mothers  who  have 
sent  sons  to  Africa,  and  those  who  have  them  there  now,  and  those 
perhaps  who  will  have  sons  go  there.  South  Africa  is  not  the  country 
that  was  described  by  Theodore  Roosevelt  on  his  hunting  expeditions. 
We  saw  no  jungles ;  we  saw  no  wild  animals ;  we  were  not  eaten  up  by 
cannibals,  nor  injured  by  them.  The  Union  of  South  Africa  is  a  modern, 
thoroughly  up-to-date  government.  We  do  not  move  quite  so  fast 
there,  and  we  do  not  live  at  quite  the  same  tension  you  do  here,  but  it  is 
a  fine,  up-to-date  country,  and  there  we  have  a  host  of  friends.  Oh. 
brethren  and  sisters,  if  you  could  only  realize  and  understand  how  those 
people  really  appreciate  your  humble  boys.  If  you  knew  how  their 
hearts  swell  with  gratitude  to  you,  and  their  prayers  go  up  in  your 
behalf  for  the  sacrifice  that  you  are  making  to  send  your  sons  there, 
and  that  it  may  not  be  too  great  a  sacrifice  for  you—if  you  knew  all 
those  things  I  am  sure  you  would  respond  more  readily  than  you  do. 
How  we  need  help  down  there !   There  are  thousands  and  thousands  of 


ELDER  J.  IVY  LEY  SESSIONS 


143 


good  people  in  that  land  who  need  the  gospel.  There  are  lots  of 
hardships.  We  often  hear  of  the  terrible  financial  condition  of  the 
European  countries,  and  of  those  in  other  parts  of  the  world#but  it  seems 
to  me  as  I  have  traveled  about  in  Africa  and  in  Europe  that  the  greatest 
starvation  is  for  these  precious  truths  that  we  have  right  here,  which, 
as  President  McMurrin  said,  we  are  enjoying  because  somebody's  son 
or  somebody's  daughter  went  into  the  mission  field  and  somebody 
supported  them. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  respond  to  these  things,  and  when 
your  sons  are  called  to  South  Africa — I  know  full  well  the  expense 
is  great — let  us  send  them  there,  let  us  go  without  some  motor 
car,  or  the  last  model  at  least,  for  I  have  seen  so  many  motor 
cars  that  I  do  not  think  any  of  us  need  to  go  without  them  here.  But 
let  us  go  without  the  last  model  in  order  that  we  may  send  our  sons 
to  South  Africa  and  to  the  other  missions.  The  Lord  has  sent  a  very 
choice  man  down  to  that  country  to  preside  now.  I  know  your  boys 
will  be  protected  and  cared  for,  and  they  will  return  a  blessing 
to  you,  and  be  a  blessing  to  that  land.  I  have  heard  you  pray  that  the 
Lord  might  hasten  the  day  when  his  purposes  shall  be  consummated, 
yet  here  we  sit  sometimes  and  we  are  not  helping  the  Lord  in  con- 
summating his  purposes. 

As  I  have  looked  into  the  faces  of  the  people  in  the  congregations 
of  the  Saints  in  Africa  and  Europe  where  I.  have  been,  I  have  almost 
felt  to  pray,  Lord,  stay  the  time  until  we  shall  have  called  to  us  these 
people  who  are  here  standing  in  darkness,  not  realizing  how  completely 
they  need  the  gospel,  not  knowing  its  value  and  its  blessings.  And  yet 
there  are  just  as  good  hearts  burning  in  their  bosoms,  longing  for  and 
needing  the  gospel,  and  we  stand  charged  by  the  Lord  God  of  heaven 
to  deliver  that  message,  and  I  hope  and  pray  that  as  long  as  I  live 
I  shall  not  get  away  from  the  choice  spirit  that  attends  the  missionaries. 
I  want  the  missionary  spirit  disseminated  through  the  wards  and  stakes 
of  Zion,  and  my  humble  prayer  is  that  the  Lord  will  fill  us  all  with  a 
desire  to  deliver  this  great  message  to  the  people  who  need  it  so 
much,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Brother  O.  B.  Peterson  spent  three  and  a  half  years  in  the 
Tahitian  Mission  upon  his  first  mission  and  presided  there  for  three 
years  on  his  second  mission. 

ELDER  O.  B.  PETERSON 

Former  President  of  the  Tahitian  Mission 

We  have  heard  the  scripture  quoted  to  us  this  afternoon,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  the  effect  that  it  is  the  weak  things  of  the 
earth  that  are  called.  I  feel  that  is  particularly  applicable  to  me  at 
this  time.    To  say  the  least,  however,  it  proves  to  me  that  the1 


144 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


oft-heard  statement,  that  opportunity  comes  but  once  to  every  man, 
is  not  correct.  I  remember  that  my  name  was  called  out  at  our 
last  general  conference,  but,  owing  to  the  fact  that  I  was  not 
properly  informed  as  to  my  privileges  in  connection  with  my  work, 
I  stayed  on  the  job  and  consequently  was  not  present.  I  felt,  how- 
ever, that  I  would  have  another  chance;  not  that  I  have  anything 
special  to  say,  but  I  deem  it  an  honor  to  stand  in  so  renowned  a  place, 
for  here  have  stood  the  prophets  and  apostles  and  servants  of  God 
in  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times;  and  to  me  at  least,  if 
there  is  any  difference  among  them,  they  are  just  a  little  more  than  any 
of  the  prophets  and  apostles  of  the  Lord  in  any  previous  dispensa-  ' 
tion.  It  is  my  testimony  that  they  have  the  same  authority,  the 
same  priesthood  and  the  same  office  and  calling;  that  they  are 
inspired  by  the  same  spirit ;  and,  in  addition  to  that,  they  are  the 
ones  who  are  called  to  lead,  counsel  and  instruct  us.  The  others  are 
just  a  matter  of  history. 

My  lot  as  a  missionary  was  cast  among  the  more  humble  peo- 
ple of  our  Father's  children ;  but  a  more  loving  people,  a  more 
lovable  people  and  a  more  hospitable  people  you  could  not  find  in 
any  other  place  throughout  the  world.  We  often  wortder  how  it 
is  that  our  young  people  can  leave  their  homes  and  loved  ones 
here  in  the  valleys  of  the  mountains  and  go  out  into  the  various 
parts  of  the  world,  to  people  with  habits  and  customs  so  absolutely 
different  to  those  to  which  they  have  been  accustomed,  and  to  an 
environment  altogether  at  variance  with  anything  they  had  known 
before;  compelled  to  learn  languages  that  seem  at  first  to  have  no 
meaning  whatsoever;  yet,  in  a  remarkably  short  time,  they  are  able 
to  apply  themselves  in  work ;  they  are  able  to  adapt  themselves 
to  the  peculiarities  of  the  people ;  they  soon  learn  the  languages, 
and  are  able  to  be  really  instrumental  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  in 
spreading  the  gospel  among  his  children.  It  is  my  testimony  that 
the  reason  for  this  is  the  spirit  of  service  that  dwells  within  their 
hearts — it  is  the  missionary  spirit. 

The  Tahitian  Mission,  wherein  I  had  the  pleasure  of  laboring, 
as  has  been  said,  for  six  and  a  half  years,  is  somewhat  different, 
I  think,  from  most  any  other  mission  of-  the  Church ;  but  I  can 
say  it  is  just  as  good  as  any  other  mission  in  the  world.  Our' 
missionary  work  there,  to  a  very  large  extent,  demands  that  we 
travel  upon  the  sea  in  small  ships — twenty-five,  thirty  and  forty- 
ton  sailing  vessels  and  gasoline  schooners.  Our  mission  covers  a 
radius  of  more  than  a  thousand  miles,  reaching  from  the  island 
of  Tubuai,  which  was  the  first  island  in  the  Pacific  ocean  to  receive 
the  gospel  in  this  dispensation,  to  the  Tuamotu  archipelago  in  the 
north.  Our  branches  are  scattered  over  this  thousand  miles  with 
a  separation  of  from  fifty  or  sixty  miles  to  four  hundred  miles,, 
and  we  are  compelled  to  travel  from  one  island  to  another  in  order 
to  meet  with  our  Saints.  Owing  to  the  few  missionaries  we  have 
and  to  the  absolutely  undependable  means  of  travel,  we  are  unable 
to  maintain  constant  contact  with  them;  and,  naturally,  they  ret- 


ELDER  O.B.  PETERSON 


145 


rograde  a  little.  But  t'hey  respond  readily  to  the  work  of  the  mis- 
sionaries. 

One  of  our  young  men,  who  just  recently  returned  from  there, 
was  laboring  on  the  island  of  Tubuai.  He  had  been  for  ten  months 
Avithout  any  word  from  home.  It  had  been  six  months  since  his 
folks  had  heard  from  him.  Upon  the  arrival  of  President  Alma 
G.  Burton,  he  was  called  to  headquarters  with  his  companion;  but 
it  so  happened  that  the  ship  on  which  they  were  to  sail  was  con- 
demned by  the  government  officials,  precluding  the  taking  of  any 
passengers  aboard.  In  order  to  get  away,  however,  in  response  to 
the  call  of  the  mission  president,  they  were  compelled  to  resort 
to  strategy ;  and  after  the  vessel  had  left  the  island  and  gotten  about 
five  miles  at  sea,  these  two  young  men  got  into  a  native  canoe 
and  were  paddled  five  miles  through  the  open  sea  in  order  to  catch  the 
boat  and  go  to  headquarters.  That  is  just  an  example  of  some 
of  the  things  we  do  in  the  Tahitian  mission  in  the  course  of  our 
gospel  labors  there.  But  I  want  to  testify,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  the  words  of  Nephi,  wherein  he  said  that  the  Lord 
does  not  require  us  to  do  anything  except  he  provides  a  way, 
is  manifested  repeatedly  there,  and  the  protecting  hand  of  the  Lord 
has  been  over  us ;  and,  in  spite  of  the  little  dangers  at  times  to 
which  we  are  exposed,  we  never  fear ;  and,,  in  spite  of  the  fact 
that  the  Tahitian  mission  was  the  first  island  mission  opened  in 
this  dispensation,  we  have  never  had  a  missionary  die  in  the  serv- 
ice either  from  sickness  or  accident. 

I  should  just  like  to  relate  a  little  incident  to  show  the  extent 
to  which  the  missionary  spirit  plays  its  part  in  our  work.  We 
had  a  young  man  who  was  of  a  rather  backward  disposition  and  it 
was  very  difficult  for  him  to  learn  the  language.  For  his  good, 
we  gave  him  a  transfer  to  the  California  mission.  He  finished  his 
mission  there  and  received  an  honorable  release  a  year  ago  this 
Fall.  He  paid  us  a  visit  on  his  way  home,  and  last  April  during 
our  general  conference  he  called  on  us  again.  He  said  to  me : 
"You  know  I  have  been  back  to  California  since  my  return  home. 
Upon  my  arrival  home  last  Fall,"  he  continued,  "I  was  dicontented 
and  dissatisfied.  It  seemed  that  I  had  lost  something  valuable  in 
my  life.  It  seemed  that  the  people  at  home  were  different,  the 
work  was  different  and  I  could  not  content  myself.  Conse- 
quently I  determined  to  go  back  to  California,  where  I  had  en- 
joyed myself  so  much." 

So,  he  went  back  to  his  mission  field ;  he  traveled  over  the  same 
ground  which  he  was  wont  to  travel  as  a  missionary;  he  met  the 
same  people,  but  he  confessed,  "I  was  disappointed,  I  did  not  seem 
to  find  the  same  feeling  and  conditions  that  I  experienced  while 
laboring  there  as  a  missionary ;  and  I  decided  that  the  reason  for 
it  was,  that  the  purpose  for  which  I  had  gone  the  first  time  was 
for  the  sake  of  serving  others  in  behalf  of  the  gospel,  and  the  sec- 
ond trip  was  for  my  own  pleasure ;  and  I  found  that  it  makes  a  dif- 


146 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ference."  He  said,  "I  determined  to  go  home  and  apply  the  same 
spirit  of  service,  the  same  missionary  spirit,  at  home  that  I  had 
applied  in  the  mission  field,  and  I  am  now  contented.  I  find  that 
the  people  at  home  are  just  as  congenial,  and  friendly,  and  the 
work  is  just  as  interesting.  'The  trouble  was  I  had  not  applied 
myself  in  the  spirit  of  service  at  home,  as  I  had  done  in  the  mission 
field,  and  this,  I  learned,  had  been  the  cause  of  my  supreme  joy 
and  happiness  there." 

I  think  I  have  taken  my  share  of  the  time,  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  I  appreciate  the  privilege  of  standing  here  and  bearing 
my  testimony,  and  expressing  these  few  thoughts.  I  have  been 
buoyed  up  in  my  faith  during  the  sessions  of  this  conference ;  and 
I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  all  of  us,  that  we  might  ever  be  firm 
and  steadfast,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Brother  Mark  V.  Coombs  spent  three  and  a  half  years  in  Samoa 
and  six  years  in  Tonga. 

ELDER  MARK  V.  COOMBS 

Former  President  of  the  Tongan  Mission 

I  feel  very  timid,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  mingling  my 
humble  testimony  with  the  wonderful  testimonies  that  have  been  borne 
before  me.  For  the  few  moments  that  I  occupy  this  position,  I  do  ask 
that  my  testimony  might  be  prompted  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  that 
I  might  be  able  to  say  something  to  you  and  put  before  you  some  of 
the  problems  with  which  we  have  been  confronted  in  Tonga. 

While  Brother  Sessions  says  that  South  Africa  is  the  most  distant  of 
the  missions,  I  believe  that  Tonga  is  the  most  isolated.  We  think  we 
are  mighty  lucky  if  we  can  get  a  letter  home  and  a  reply  to  that  letter 
inside  of  five  months,  and  we  never  get  a  letter  any  more  than  once 
a  month.  When  our  newspapers  reach  us  they  are  so  stale  that  the 
only  items  we  read  are  the  sermons  that  have  been  spoken  from  this 
stand,  or  other  instructions  by  the  presiding  brethren. 

Now  Tonga  is  only  a  small  place.  It  is  a  tiny  mission,  possibly 
one  of  the  smallest,  and  you  have  not  heard  much  of  Tonga.  But 
there  are  some  mighty  good  people  there,  people  whom  I  have  learned 
to  love.  The  Tongan  mission  is  situated  about  seven  hundred  miles 
eastward  of  Fiji;  that  is,  about  seven  thousand  miles  from  here,  not 
"out  where  the  West  begins,"  but  where  the  West  ends.  The  sun  rises 
first  in  Tonga,  in  1922-23  we  performed  the  first  baptisms  that  were 
performed  throughout  the  world  in  those  years  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  got  up  in  the  morning  and  performed 
these  baptisms  in  the  east,  for  the  sun  rises  first  there.  We  are  seventeen 
hours  ahead  of  the  time  in  Salt  Lake  City. 


ELDER  MARK  V.  COOMBS 


147 


We  have  about  fourteen  inhabited  islands  with  a  population  of 
about  25,000  people.  If  missionaries  were  sent  according  to  our  popu- 
lation we  would  have  but  few,  but  due  to  the  scattered  condition  of  the 
islands  we  feel  that  we  ought  to  have  between  twelve  and  fourteen 
missionaries  constantly  in  the  field,  but  we  do  not  get  them,  and  we  do 
not  get  them  because  it  seems  to  me  there  is  a  certain  feeling  among 
the  parents  in  Zion  which  causes  them  to  discriminate  against  our 
island  missions,  particularly  Tahiti,  Samoa,  and  Tonga.  They  figure 
that  those  island  missions  are  so  far  isolated  and  that  there  is  no 
medical  attention ;  sanitary  conditions  are  supposed  to  be  poor,  and 
these  dear  sons  have  to  make  so  many  sacrifices  that  they  do  not 
want  t'hem  to  go  there.  They  would  prefer  possibly  that  they  go 
to  Great  Britain,  to  some  of  our  American  missions,  or  to  Australia, 
and  possibly,  while  they  are  doing  missionary  work,  hunt  up  a 
little  genealogy.  That  is  all  well  and  good,  but  it  appears  to  me  to 
be  just  a  little  bit  selfish.  It  appears  to  me  that  it"  should  not  make 
much  difference  where  you  give  your  service.  The  thing  is,  are  you 
giving  the  service?  t  The  souls  of  those  Tongan  people  are  just  as 
valuable  as  the  souls  of  our  ancestors  who  have  gone  before  us,  just  as 
precious  in  the  eyes  of  the  Lord  as  the  souls  of  people  who  are  of  a 
different  complexion.  *I  learned  to  love  those  people.  I  made  a  few 
sacrifices,  which  I  do  not  count  as  sacrifices,  but  I  count  them  privileges, 
and  the  people  made  many  sacrifices  for  me.  They  went  without  food 
that  I'  might  eat ;  they  took  clothes  from  their  own  backs  and  gave 
them  to  me.  They  have  given  me  their  last  horse.  They  have  given  me 
the  last  vegetables  from  their  garden;  when  they  had  practically  nothing, 
they  saw  to  it  that  I  and  mine  had  plenty.  So  because  of  these  close 
associations  I  have  learned  to  love  those  people.  And  they  did  not 
only  make  those  sacrifices  for  me,  but  they  have  made  them  for  every 
elder  who  has  been  in  the  Tongan  mission. 

It  was  my  privilege  to  be  in  Tonga  when  Brother  McKay  visited  us 
in  1921.  At  that  time  there  were  quarantine  regulations  existing  and 
it  did  not  appear  that  he  could  visit  us,  but  the  Saints  were  back  of  us, 
and  we  exercised  our  faith  and  prayers,  and  with  a  lot  of  coaxing  on 
my  part,  we  finally  prevailed  upon  Brother  McKay  to  stop  over  in 
Tonga.  I  went  with  him  as  far  as  Samoa  and  thoroughly  enjoyed  my 
visit  there.  While  Brother  McKay  was  there,  mingling  with  those 
people,  a  beautiful  spirit  prevailed.  And  then  it  appeared  that  the 
Spirit  was  bound  to  call  him  from  there  and  that  he  was  not  going  to 
Tahiti  or  Tonga,  neither  he  nor  Brother  Cannon.  Finally,  in  one  way 
or  another,  he  sent  Brother  Cannon  on  to  New  Zealand  and  he  remained 
with  us  in  Tonga.  I  believe  those  few  days  that  Brother  McKay  was 
in  Tonga  were  the  happiest  days  of  my  life.  The  Saints  congregated 
there,  not  being  able  to  understand  one  word  he  said,  but  understanding 
through  the  Spirit,  and  I  want  to  assure  you  that  many  of  our  most 
stalwart  converts  were  made  after  his  visit  in  Tonga.    The  influence 


148 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  sprang  up  in  Tonga  after  Brother  McKay  was  there  is  something 
that  I  cannot  describe.  It  seemed  that  after  his  visit  some  of  our 
problems  began  to  melt  away  and  we  began  to  find  a  way  to  solve  them 
and  to  deliver  our  message  better  to  that  people 

I  had  been  there  but  ten  months  at  that  time.  One  of  Brother 
McKay's  first  remarks  to  me  was,  as  we  walked  down  the  street  one 
day,  "Well,  Brother  Coombs,  I  see  you  have  not  very  many  friends 
here,"  by  which  I  understood  he  referred  to  the  Europeans.  So  I  set 
myself  to  the  task  right  there  of  making  more  friends  and  winning  my 
way  into  the  hearts  of  the  Europeans'  in  that  nation,  in  order  that  we 
might  present  the  gospel  to  them.  We  were  blessed  with  some  splendid 
elders.  I'  have  often  said  that  had  President  Grant  given  me  the  choice 
of  all  of  the  elders  in  Zion,  I  think  I1  could  not  have  chosen  better  men 
than  we  had  at  that  time,  when  we  had  to  fight  popular  opinion  in  order 
to  be  able  to  prolong  the  life  of  the  Tongan  mission.  In  1922,  conditions 
got  so  warm  and  persecution  so  hot  there  that  the  government  enacted 
a  measure  which  prohibited  the  entrance  of  any  more  "Mormon"  mis- 
sionaries into  Tonga,  at  least  the  law  read  that  no  more  "Mormons" 
could  enter  under  a  penalty  of  a  five  hundred  dollar  fine  and  possibly 
imprisonment  and  deportation  at  the  end  of  the  term  of  imprisonment. 
I  went  to  the  .Chief  Justice  and  told  him  that  it  was  not  fair,  and  that 
it  did  not  agree  with  their  own  constitution.  He  said,  "Mr.  Coombs, 
I  happen  not  only  to  be  the  Chief  Justice,  but  I  am  also  the  attorney. 
We  do  not  want  you  'Mormons'  here."  I  said,  "Why  don't  you  want 
us  here  ?"  "Well,"  he  said,  "that  is  not  your  business.  We  don't  want 
you,  that  is  all.  You  are  undesirable  citizens."  After  a  little  diplomacy 
and  talk,  I1  found  out  why  they  did  not  want  us.  The  one  cry  at 
Tonga  at  the  present  time  is,  one  church.  Tonga,  you  know,  is  the 
smallest  government  in  the  world  that  is  not  supporting  a  foreign 
parliament.  They  are  not  interfered  with  even  by  England.  They 
were  afraid  that  "Mormon"  elders  might  stir  up  a  spirit  of  disunion. 
They  wanted  every  native  there  to  belong  to  the  Free  Church  or  to 
the  Wesleyan  Church,  and  they  were  going  to  try  to  do  away  with  all 
other  religions,  and  their  first  gun  was  aimed  at  the  "Mormons."  We 
worked  untiringly  for  two  years,  and  at  the  end  of  that  time  I  had  the 
satisfaction  of  convincing  those  people  that  their  viewpoint  was  wrong. 
We  made  numerous  calls  upon  the  Chief  Justice  and  also  upon  the 
ministers  and  convinced  them  that  their  viewpoint  was  wrong,  and  by 
means  of  faith  and  prayer  and  our  works  we  got  them  to  repeal  those 
measures  in  1924.  Now  we  can  have  all  the  elders  that  we  can  prevail 
upon  the  First  Presidency  and  parents  to  send  us  in  Tonga.  And  we 
need  them.  We  need  them  badly,  in  fact.  The  people  there  need  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  They  have  been  imposed  upon,  they  have  been 
exploited,  and  it  seems  to  me  the  time  has  come  that  they  should  get 
the  gospel  in  its  simplicity  and  purity,  and  I  count  it  a  privilege  to  have 
labored  among  those  people.  I  love  them,  and  I  am  proud  that  I  have 
associated  with  them. 


ELDER  MARK  V.  COOMBS 


149 


Not  long  ago  I  had  a  little  experience  something  like  the  one 
related  by  President  Peterson,  where  we  had  to  travel  in  our  little 
sail  boat  of  only  nine  tons,  and  I  weathered  a  three  days'  hurricane  to 
go  to  Vavau  to  conference  with  Brother  Cahoon  and  his  wife.  Brother 
Cahoon  is  now  the  mission  president  down  there.  We  were  in  sight  of 
land  with  our  sails  ripped  to  pieces,  and  were  buffeted  by  waves  which 
were  twenty  or  thirty  feet  high,  and  we  could  not  make  the  harbor. 
The  captain  of  that  boat  was  one  of  our  priesthood,  a  priest,  and  a 
splendid  fellow,  by  the  name  of  Jone  Kogaika.  I  had  told  him  that 
I  had  an  appointment  in  Vavau  for  conference,  and  I  was  invited  to 
go  in  his  boat  free  of  charge,  and  there  were  many  others  aboard  the 
boat.  During  the  time  that  we  were  buffeted  about  we  were  all  sick. 
Our  food  was  exhausted,  our  water  was  gone,  and  we  had  no  means 
of  getting  into  the  harbor  because  our  sails  were  ripped.  I  said  to  the 
captain,  "Jone,  let  us  turn  around  and  go  back  to  Haapai."  I  said, 
"Simply  turn  around  and  the  wind  will  drive  us  back  to  Haapai,  and 
we  will  get  there  in  five  or  six  hours  and  there  we  will  be  in  perfect 
safety  among  those  protecting  reefs."  He  looked  me  square  in  the 
eye  and  said:  "Didn't  you  tell  me  you  had  an  appointment  for  con- 
ference next  Sunday  at  Vavau."  "That  is  what  I  told  you,  Jone." 
He  shook  his  fist  and  said:  "Well,  the  Lord  being  my  helper,  I  will 
get  you  through."  He  got  us  through.  We  thought  we  were  going 
down,  and  we  didn't  care  if  we  did  go  down,  we  were  so  sick.  I  had 
had  a  wonderful  blessing  before  going  out  there  by  President  Penrose, 
and  he  promised  me  that  I  would  go  in  safety  on  land  and  on  sea. 
When  things  got  so  furious  I  forgot  the  blessing  for  the  time  being, 
and  said  to  Jone  that  we  should  turn  around  and  go  back.  But  he 
had  the  faith  I  should  have  shown,  and  he  got  us  through. 

Now  that  is  only  one  instance.  Another  man,  Pita  Afu,  while 
I  was  visiting  Tonga  in  1914,  a  high  chief,  or  one  who  should  have 
been  a  high  chief,  (he  had  not  yet  been  appointed  a  high  chief)  accepted 
the  gospel,  and  invited  the  elders  to  establish  the  work  in  his 
village.  The  king  of  Tonga,  hearing  about  it,  became  quite  in- 
censed, and  made  a  special  trip  up  to  Vavau  to  interview  Pita,  and 
said  to  him,  "What  is  this  I  hear  about  you  ?  Why  are  you  associated 
with  those  'Mormons,'  such  an  unpopular  sect  ?  I'  wish  you  would 
leave  them  alone."  He  took  Pita  upon  a  high  eminence  where  he  could 
overlook  the  beautiful  harbor  of  Vavau  and  all  the  lower  islands,  and 
pointedvto  them  and  said:  "Pita,  if  you  will  renounce  'Mormonism,' 
I  will  make  you  a  present  of  all  of  these  islands  down  here  for  your 
inheritance,  for  your  sons  who  follow  after  you."  Pita  looked  him 
square  in  the  eye  and  said :  "With  all  due  respect  to  your  majesty, 
you  have  not  enough  land  in  all  Tonga  to  induce  me  to  leave  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints." 

Now  these  are  only  a  few  testimonies,  only  two  instances  showing 
the  kind  of  people  among  whom  your  sons  are  laboring.  They  are 
blessed  and  favored  when  they  receive  a  call  to  go  to  that  land. 


ISO 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Tonga  is  not  the  best  mission  of  the  Church,  but  there  is  none  better. 
Every  elder  who  returns  home  contends  that  his  mission  is  the  best,  and 
so  it  is.  If  it  were  not,  then  that  elder  was  not  doing  his  duty.  It 
was  a  pleasure  to  me  to  get  a  letter  not  so  long  ago  from  Brother 
Widtsoe,  who  had  heard  one  of  our  missionaries  make  his  report,  and 
he  said  something  like  this  in  referring  to  this  young  elder's  testi- 
mony: "His  testimony  rang  as  true  and  clear  as  the  tone  of  a  silver 
bell,  Brother  Coombs.  I  am  sure  that  the  Tongan  mission  is  not  only 
doing  its  full  duty  to  the  Saints  there, 'but  it  is  developing  to  a  full 
degree  the  elders  who  are  laboring  there."  And  the  same  holds  true  of 
those  other  islands  which  are  discriminated  against  by  the  mothers 
and  fathers.  They  develop  to  a  full  extent  the  elders  who  are  laboring 
there. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  know  that  God  lives.  I  support  these 
brethren  whom  we  have  lifted  our  hands  to  support,  our  presiding 
brethren,  in  the  offices  they  hold.  The  gospel  is  dear  to  me,  and  I'  am 
looking  forward  to  the  time  when  I  might  be  favored  with  another 
call  to  go  down  among  the  people  of  those  south  seas,  for  I  am  still 
quite  young — whether t  to  Tonga,  or  to  Samoa,  or  anywhere,  it  matters 
not,  for  I  love  those  Lamanitish  people. 

;Just  one  more  word  about  our  Tongan  mission.  Possibly  our 
brethren  from  New  Zealand  think  the  New  Zealand  school,  the  Maori 
Agricultural  College  is  not  supported  by  the  other  missions.  But  Tonga 
is  supporting  the  Maori  Agricultural  College  at  Hastings,  New  Zealand. 
At  the  present  time  I  think  we  have  about  fourteen  or  fifteen  of  our 
young  men  down  there  in  New  Zealand  attending  that  college.  Another 
thing,  the  captain  of  the  classes  and  the  class  leaders  are  Tongan  boys, 
and  since  our  Tongan  boys  have  gone  there  the  leaders  of  that  college 
and  the  graduates  who  have  graduated  with  honors  have  been  Tongans 
every  time.  So  you  see  the  Tongans  are  a  bright  people  and  they 
have  good  souls  worth  saving. 

May  God  bless  you,  I  pray  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

Brother  McKay  suggested  that  I  tell  you  how  far  those  boys 
travel  to  get  to  that  school.  Tonga  is  only  1800  miles  from  New 
Zealand.  These  boys  go  down  to  school  at  their  own  expense  and 
earn  their  own  way  while  they  are  there  and  pay  their  own  expenses 
back.  Two  of  them  have  recently  graduated  with  honors  and  they  are 
teaching  in  our  schools  in  Tonga. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Brother  Eugene  Neff  spent  several  years  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands 
on  his  first  mission,  and  presided,  as  I  remember  it,  for  somewhat 
over  three  years  on  his  second  mission.  He  doesn't  appear  to  be  present. 
Brother  Blood,  I  believe,  is  at  the  University  of  Utah. 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


151 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  realize,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  time  is  short  and 
very  precious  this  afternoon.  I  rejoice  with  you  in  the  testimonies  and 
instructions  that  we  have  received  in  this  conference,  because  they  are 
true  and  are  for  the  welfare  of  all  the  people  of  the  Church,  and  for  all 
mankind.  I  rejoice  in  the  fact  that  we  are  living  in  the  dispensation  which 
has  been  spoken  about  frequently  in  the  sessions  of  this  conference — 
the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times,  the  last  great  dispensation  of 
the  gospel  which  the  Lord  has  to  give.  This  dispensation  has  been 
looked  forward  to  in  the  past.  The  Apostle  Paul  foretold  this  time 
when  the  Lord  should  gather  together  in  Christ  all  things  that  are  in 
heaven  and  in  the  earth.  It  is  the  time  preparatory  to  the  coming 
again  of  the  Savior — the  Lord  Jesus  Christ — to  reign  this  time  upon 
the  earth  in  peace  and  in  glory.  He  came  nineteen  hundred  years 
ago  in  humility  and  sorrow  to  accomplish  the  atoning  work  that  was 
before  him  to  do. 

History  repeats  itself,  we  are  told,  i't  appears  to  me  that  there 
is  a  comparison  between  the  dispensation  of  the  meridian  of  time  and 
this  dispensation,  in  the  sense  that  as  the  Savior  had  to  have  a  fore- 
runner at  that  time  in  the  person  of  John  the  Baptist  to  prepare  the 
way  for  his  coming,  in  this  dispensation  there  has  come  a  forerunner; 
not  one  who  should  be  able  to  prepare  the  way  directly  for  the  Savior 
and  to  see  him  upon  the  earth,  but  one  who  should  prepare  the  way 
in  the  establishment  of  this  dispensation,  that  the  work  might  "grow 
and  the  purposes  of  the  Lord  be  accomplished  in  preparation  for  his 
great  coming,  when  he  shall  come  to  reign  during  a  thousand  years. 
I  rejoice  that  there  has  been  restored  in  this  dispensation  that  divine 
authority  which  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  received — that  authority 
which  had  been  lost  from  the  earth  for  many  hundred  years.  After 
the  dispensation  of  the  meridian  of  time,  with  the  work  which  the 
apostles  had  carried  on,  the  men  and  women  who  had  accepted  the 
gospel  gradually  apostatized  from  the  truth,  and  the  authority  was  lost, 
As  the  Prophet  Isaiah  declared,  "The  earth  also  is  defiled  under  the  in- 
habitants thereof ;  because  they  have  transgressed  the  laws,  changed  the 
ordinance,  broken  the  everlasting  covenant." 

That  was  the  condition  which  prevailed  for  centuries  during  the 
dark  ages ;  and  then  came  the  beginning  of  the  dawn  during  the 
renaissance  and  the  reformation.  Men  began  to  look  forward  to  a 
greater  time  when  truth  and  the  fulness  of  the  gospel  should  come  to 
the  earth.  I  am  reminded  of  a  statement  made  about  the  year  1600 
by  a  man  who  was  the  leader  among  the  Puritans  who  came  to 
America.  It  is  said  that  John  Robinson,  the  pastor  of  the  pilgrims,  an 
old  man  of  great  vision  and  piety,  who  was  left  behind  when  the 
pilgrims  sailed  for  America,  charged  them  when  they  left  Holland, 
"If  God  reveal  anything  to  us  by  any  other  instrument  of  his,  be  as 


152 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ready  to  receive  it  as  ever  we  were  to  receive  any  truth  by  his  ministry," 
for  he  was  very  confident  that  the  Lord  had  more  truth  and  light  yet 
to  bring  forth  out  of  his  holy  word. 

There  were  many  such  people  who  were  looking  forward  to  the  time 
when  the  fulness  of  truth  should  be  restored.  And  so  when  the  gospel 
came  and  missionaries  were  sent  out  to  various  parts  of  the  world, 
there  were,  such  as  in  England,  communities  or  congregations  of  people 
who  were  prepared  to  receive  the  truth  in  its  fulness.  I'  rejoice  in  the 
fact  that  this  divine  authority,  the  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God,  has 
been  restored ;  whereby  every  man  who  is  prepared  and  is  worthy,  who 
seeks  to  live  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  may  have 
the  privilege  of  receiving  this  power  and  of  laboring  for  the  welfare 
of  the  Church,  for  the  spread  of  the  gospel,  for  the  bringing  together 
of  all  things  in  Christ,  and  for  the  accomplishment  of  his  purposes. 

I  rejoice  that  we  are  possessed  of  this  truth  with  regard  to  divine 
authority — which  is  very  different  from  that  which  is  called  priesthood 
or  ministry  in  the  world — that  the  Lord  has  given  to  us  opportunity 
whereby  all  men,  as  was  the  case  in  the  previous  dispensation,  might 
be  commissioned  to  labor  for  the  welfare  of  others.  I  rejoice  in  the 
fact  that  from  the  time  of  the  organization  of  this  Church  the  leaders 
who  have  had  the  responsibility  as  watchmen  upon  the  towers  have 
declared  the  words  and  the  will  of  the  Lord  and  have  warned  the 
people,  and  that  warning  has  been  carried  from  them  to  others  who  bear 
the  Priesthood,  and  through  them  to  others,  who  have  direct  watchcare 
in  the  wards  and  branches ;  and  thereby  the  people  have  been  built  up 
and  strengthened  and  enabled  to  resist  evil  and  temptation.  If  all 
the  world  would  accept  these  truths,  if  all  the  world  would  accept  the 
warnings  with  regard  to  the  evils  which  do  and  which  shall  exist,  and 
would  accept  wisdom  and  be  willing  to  receive  and  to  follow  these 
instructions  through  the  light  that  comes  to  them  or  that  can  come  to 
them,  the  world  would  be  very  much  better  for  it,  and  the  time  would 
be  ripe  muc'h  sooner  for  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  man. 

The  Lord  can  give  unto  us  light  only  as  we  will  receive  it.  Only  as 
we  open  the  windows  and  doors  of  our  houses  can  the  sunlight  enter  in 
and  cleanse  and  strengthen  and  bring  life  and  light  to  that  house  and 
overcome  unhealthfulness.  And  so  only  as  we  open  the  windows  and 
doors  of  our  souls  to  the  holy  Spirit  can  truth  enter  in  and  strengthen 
and  develop  us  and  make  us  more  healthy  spiritually.  This  is  the 
message  which  the  authorities  of  this  Church  have  had  and  have  today 
to  bring  to  the  people  everywhere,  not  only  to  the  Latter-day  Saints; 
primarily,  of  course,  to  them,  but  to  all  mankind :  That  if  they  will 
resist  and  overcome  evil  and  temptation,  if  they  will  accept  and  obey 
this  gospel,  they  shall  grow  in  the  knowledge  of  the  truth,  they  shall 
develop  those  qualities  that  will  make  them  better  men  and  women, 
they  shall  increase  in  the  spirit  of  love  for  their  fellowmen,  they 
shall  enjoy  true  happiness,  and  be  prepared  to  meet  the  Lord. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  help  every  one  of  us  to  sense  our  oppor- 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


153 


tunities  and  to  listen  and  render  obedience  to  the  instructions  that  come 
to  us.  They  are  for  our  welfare,  not  for  the  welfare  of  any  other 
human  being,  but  for  us  individually.  Every  commandment  of  the' 
Lord  is  for  our  development  and  progress  and  growth.  The  Lord  will 
hasten  the  time  when  we  shall  promote  and  develop  the  spirit  whereby 
we  shall  be  able  to  live  as  of  one  heart  and  of  one  mind.  May  that 
time  soon  come  and  may  we  cultivate  unity  and  love  and  peace  and 
joy,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  solo,  "My  Redeemer  and  my  Lord,"  was  sung  by  Mrs.  Joseph 
Haycock. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  General  Authorities  and  Officers  of  the  Church, 
who  were  voted  upon  and  unanimously  sustained,  as  follows : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

■  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Charles  W.  Nibley,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawsorr 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Reed  Smoot  Tames  E".  Talmage 

George  Albert  Smith  Stephen  L.  Richards 

George  F.  Richards  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

David  O-  McKay  John  A.  Widtsoe 

PRESIDING  PATRIARCH 

Hyrum  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and 
the  Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators- 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Brigham  H.  Roberts 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Charles  H.  Hart 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Levi  Edgar  Young 

Joseph  W.  McMurrin  Rey  L.  Pratt 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  O-  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 


154 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


TRUSTEE  IN  TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee  in  Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants :  Andrew 
Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  William  Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells- 

CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Anthony  W.  Ivins  David  O.  McKay 

Charles  W.  Nibley  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Willard  Young  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Rudger  Clawson    '  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Orson  F-  Whitney  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

SUPERINTENDENT  OF  CHURCH  SCHOOLS 

Adam  S.  Bennion 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H-  Rolapp  John  C.  Cutler 

Peter  G.  Johnston 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor  B.  Cecil  Gates,  Asst.  Conductor 

George  C.  Smith,  Secretary 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.  Kimball  Alexander  Schreiner 

Tracy  Y.  Cannon  Frank  W.  Asper 

CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Edward  H.  Anderson 
GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Clarissa  S.  Williams,  President 
•  Jennie  B.  Knight,  First  Counselor 
Louise  Y.  Robison,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


155 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

David  O.  McKay,  General  Superintendent 
Stephen  L  Richards,  1st  Asst.  Gen'l  Supt. 
George  D.  Pyper,  2nd  Asst.  Gen'l  Supt. 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Albert  Smith,  General  Superintendent 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  1st  Asst.  Supt- 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  2nd  Asst.  Supt. 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  LADIES'  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Martha  H.  Tingey,  President 
Ruth  May  Fox,  First  Counselor 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  President 
Sadie  G-  Pack,  First  Counselor 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

THE  LABORS  OF  PRESIDENT  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

I  wish  to  say  that  we  hear  from  time  to  time  very  favorable  reports 
regarding  the  work  being  accomplished  by  Brother  James  E.  Talmage 
as  president  of  the  European  mission,  and  also  as  president  of  the  Brit- 
ish mission.  He  has  succeeded  in  getting  many  communications  into  the 
papers  in  Great  Britain,  setting  forth  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  he  is  accomplishing  a  very  remarkable  and  splendid  work  while 
presiding  in  that  far-off  land.  He  has  the  constant  faith  and  prayers 
of  the  Presidency,  Apostles  and  Presiding  Patriarch  in  their  weekly 
meetings  in  the  temple. 

THE  SAINTS  REQUESTED  TO  APPLY  SCRIPTURE 

I  desire  to  read  the  words  of  the  Savior,  which  I  would  like  the 
Latter-day  Saints  to  apply  to  the  teachings  of  the  servants  of  the  Lord 
who  constitute  -the  authorities  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  who 
are  promulgating  his  teachings  and  his  sayings  and  calling  people  to 
repentance.  I  feel  that  these  words  should  find  lodgment  in  the  'hearts 
of  those  who  have  listened  to  the  wonderful  testimonies  that  have  been 
borne : 

"Therefore  whosoever  heareth  these  sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them,  I 
will  liken  him  unto  a  wise  man,  which  built  his  house  upon  a  rock : 


156 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"And  the  rain  descended,  and  the  floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and 
beat  upon  that  house ;  and  it  fell  not :  for  it  was  founded  upon  a  rock. 

"And  every  one  that  heareth  these  sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them  not, 
shall  be  likened  unto  a  foolish  man,  which  built  his  house  upon  the  sand: 

"And  the  rain  descended,  and  the  floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and 
beat  upon  the  house ;  and  it  fell :  and  great  was  the  fall  of  it." 

A  BLESSING  FOR  PRIESTHOOD  AND  AUXILIARY  WORKERS  AND  THE  SAINTS 

I  desire  to  extend 'my  blessing  to  all  the  men  and  the  women  jwho 
preside  in  all  the  stakes  of  Zion  throughout  the  Church,  in  all  the  mis- 
sions, in  all  the  wards,  in  all  the  quorums  of  the  priesthood  and  in  all 
the  auxiliary  organizations.  I  am  convinced  beyond  the  shadow  of  a 
doubt  that  there  cannot  be  found  in  any  part  of  the  world  men  and 
women  giving  so  unselfishly  of  their  time,  of  their  talents,  and  of  the 
best  that  is  in  them,  for  the  salvation  of  the  souls  of  men.  I  am  sat- 
isfied that  there  are  no  other  people  who  are  devoting  so  much  of  their 
time,  of  their  money,  of  their  thoughts,  and  of  their  very  being  for  the 
advancement  of  God's  work  at  home  and  abroad,  as  are  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  And  with  all  the  power  that  God  has  given  me,  I  desire  to  bless 
the  men  and  the  women  who  are  thus  giving  their  time  and  thought 
and  are  setting  examples  that  are  worthy  of  the  imitation,  not  only 
of  those  over  whom  they  preside,  but  of  all  men.  Every  man  and  woman 
who  is  laboring  for  the  salvation  of  the  souls  of  men  and  keeping  the 
commandments  of  God  is  entitled  to  be  blessed,  and  I  pray  God  that  his 
blessings  may  come  to  them. 

I  rejoice  in  the  remarkable  and  splendid  testimonies  that  have  been 
borne,  during  our  conference,  under  the  inspiration  and  by  the  light 
and  power  of  God,  and  I  pray  that  these  testimonies  may  find  lodgment 
in  the  hearts  of  the  people,  and  that  they  will  remember  that  those  who 
obey  the  (Lord  and  keep  his  commandments  are  building  their  house 
upon  a  rock,  and  those  who  fail  to  do  this  are  building  their  house  upon 
the  sand. 

May  the  God  of  heaven  bless  us  and  be  and  abide  with  us  until  we 
meet  again  in  six  months  from  now  in  general  conference,  is  my 
prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemed  and 
Savior.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "The  .time  is  iar  spent,"  and  the  bene- 
diction was  pronounced  by  Elder  E.  Frank  Birch,  president  of  the 
Tintic  stake  of  Zion. 

The  conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing,  assisted  by 
B.  Cecil  Gates ;  accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ 
were  played  by  Edward  P.  Kimball,  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Alexander 
Schreiner  and  Frank  W.  Asper.  Stenographic  reports  were  made  in 
the  Tabernacle  by  Frank  W.  Otterstrom,  assisted  by  Joseph  Anderson, 
and  in  the  Assembly  Hall  by  Frederick  G.  Barker. 

edward  h.  Anderson,  Clerk  of  Conference. 


INDEX 


Assembly  Hall,  Morning  Session   42 

Assembly  Hall,  Afternoon  Session    62 

Authorities  Present    1 

Authorities  of  the  Church,  General  153 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J   33 


The  Gospel  Universal,  33 — A  Better  Understanding,  34 — First  Mis- 
sionary Visit  in  South  America,  34 — Recent  Missionary  Work  in 
South  America,  35 — Difficulties  Encountered,  36 — "A  Little  Child 
Shall  Lead  Them,"  36 — Italians  Interested  in  the  Restored  Gospel, 

37 —  A  Difficult  Missionary  Work,  37 — Visit  to  the  Indians  on  the 
Great  Andes  Plateau,  38 — Condition  of  the  South  American  Indians, 

38 —  The  Day  of  the  Indians'  Redemption  Drawing  Nigh,  39 — Spain 
and  Italy  Entitled  to  Hear  the  Gospel,  39 — The  Gospel  to  Deliver  the 
Children  of  Father  Lehi  From  Bondage,  40 — The  Task  and  Duty 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  40. 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q  151 

Clawson,  President  Rudger  . .  .'   83 

Where  the  Word  of  the  Lord  is  Found,  83 — A  Great  Mystery  Ex- 
plained, 83 — No  Single  Principle  of  the  Gospel  will  Insure  Salvation, 
84 — -Works  Must  Accompany  Faith,  84 — What  are  Some  of  These 
Works  ?  84 — Repentance,  85— Baptism  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  85 — Three 
Witnesses  in  Heaven,  Three  on  Earth,  86 — Full  Plan  of  Salvation 


Revealed  to  the  Saints,  86. 

Closing  Session  136 

Coombs,  Elder  Mark  V  146 

First  Day,  Morning  Session    1 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Session    21 

General  Authorities  Present  .   1 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  153 

General  Officers  of  the  Church   .  154 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church  154 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 


Changes  in  Officers,  2 — New  Stakes  Organized,  3 — Alma's  Cry 
for  Repentance,  3 — The  Joy  of  Missionary  Work,  4 — The  Worth  of 
Souls,  4 — Men  Have  Seen  Christ  in  Our  Day,  5 — The  Command  to 
Preach  the  Gospel  Supreme,  6 — Who  Is  Fitted  to  Teach  the  Gospel? 
6 — 'The  Word  of  Wisdom,  7— Promises  of  God  Conditioned  on  Obe- 
dience, 8 — Parents  Must  Teach  Their  Children  by  Example,  8 — 
Josiah  Quincy's  Testimony  of  Joseph  Smith,  9 — Joseph  Smith's 
Prophecy  of  the  Migration  West,  11 — Government  Placed  Stamp 
of  Divinity  on  Prophet's  Utterance,  11 — The  Great  Obligation  of  the 
Saints  to  Declare  the  Restoration,  11. 


Grant,  President  Heber  J   12 

Concerning  Plural  Marriage,  12. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   27 

A  Magnificent  Sight,  27.  ' 


158 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Grant,  President  Heber  J   41 

Tabernacle  Choir  Visits  California,  41 — Peter  Whitmer  Farm  Pur- 
chased, 41. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  100 

Hearing  in  the  Tabernacle,  100- -Monument  to  the  Handcart  Com- 
panies, 120 — Introducing  Elder  Richard  C.  May,  140 — Introducing 
Elder  J.  Wyley  Sessions,  142 — Introducing  Elder  O.  B.  Peterson,  143 
— Introducing  Elder  Mark  V.  Coombs,  14(5 — Noting  Absence  of 
Elders  Neff  and  Blood,  ISO. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  ...153 

Presenting  General  Authorities  and  Officers,  153. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J.  .  155 

The  Labors  of  President  James  E.  Talmage,  155 — The  Saints  Re- 
quested to  Apply  Scripture,  155 — A  Blessing  for  Priesthood  and 
Auxiliary  Workers  and  the  Saints,  156. 

Hart,  Elder  Charles  H   51 

Introducing  Elder  Soren  M.  Nielsen,  51. 

Hart,  Elder  Charles  H   59 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W   13 

Purpose  of  These  General  Assemblies,  13 — Features  Which  Differ- 
entiate Our  Church  From  Other  Churches,  13 — An  Alleged  Retro- 
grade Movement  in  the  Church,  13— The  Civil  Government  and  the 
Dominant  Church  in  Mexico,  14 — Relationship  Between  Church  and 


State  Must  Be  Determined,  14 — L.  D.  S.  More  Than  Others  Directly 
Interested  in  the  Question,  15 — -The  Lamanites  or  Indians  of  Mexico, 
15 — Retribution  Has  Come  to  Their  Persecutors,  16 — Shall  Church 
or  Government  Rule,  or  Each  in  Its  Sphere?  16 — -The  British-Israel 
Movement,  16 — Development  in  the  Investigation,  17 — Symbolism  of 
the  British  Coat  of  Arms,  17 — What  the  Saints  Have  Tried  for  Years 
to  Teach  the  British,  18 — A  Study  of  the  Pyramid  of  Gizeh,  18 — 
Predictions  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  19 — Be  Prepared  for 
Coming    Great   Events,  20 — Difference   Between   Priestcraft  and 


Priesthood,  20. 

Jenson,  Elder  Andrew   54 

Jones,  Elder  William    63 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden  127 

Impressions  and  Reflections,  129. 
Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   30 


Beauty,  Power  and  Glory  of  the  Church,  30 — Addresses  at  the  Of- 
ficers' Meeting,  Y.  M.  M.  I.  A.,  30— More  Blessed  to  Give  Than  to 
Receive,  30 — Our  Volunteer  Workers  in  the  Church,  31 — Missionary 
Wbrk  in  the  Y.  M.  M.  I.  A.,  31— Labors  of  General  Board  Members, 
32 — Program  of  Instruction  in  the  M.  I.  A.,  32. 

May,  Elder  Richard  C  140 

McMurrin,  Elder  Joseph  W  136 

McKay,  Elder  David  O  Ill 

The  World  Needs  Men,  111 — What  Is  the  Crowning  Glory  of  Man? 
Ill — Four  Pictures  of  Importance  and  Beauty,  112 — The  Greatest 
Organization  in  the  World  For  Character-Building,112 — Two  Ways 
in  Which  Character  is  Built,  112 — Tobacco  a  Growing  Evil,  113— 
What  Our  Homes  Should  Establish,  114 — Fathers  and  Elders  Should 
be  Worthy  of  Imitation,  115. 


INDEX 


159 


Nibley,  President  Charles  W. 


21 


A  Great  Work  Accomplished  by  the  Saints,  21 — Gratitude  to  God 
for  this  Age  and  Nation,  22 — Reverence  for  God,  22 — The  Struggle 
for  Liberty,  22 — Distinction  Between  Divine  Guidance  and  Divine 
Authority,  23 — Divine  Authority  Conferred  by  Holy  Messengers, 
24 — Witnesses  of  the  Bestowal  of  Divine  Authority,  25. 


Eternal  Life  and  Celestial  Glory,  87— How  to  Get  Faith,  the  Moving 
Cause  of  Action,  87 — An  Appeal  Pertaining  to  Faith  and  Religion, 
88 — Concerning  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  88 — Thankful  for  the 
Heritage  That  Has  Come  to  Us,  90 — Joseph  Smith's  Works  Pro- 
claim Him  a  Prophet  of  God,  90. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   25 

Thanks  and  Gratitude,  25. 

Roberts,  Elder  Brigham  H  121 

Second  Day,  Morning  Session    80 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Session  101 

Sessions,  Elder  J.  Wyley  142 

Smith,  Elder  David  A   42 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert  101 

Great  Privileges  Enjoyed,  101 — Our  Pre-Existence,  102 — Purpose 
of  Our  Earth  Life,  102 — Scripture  Study  Important,  102 — Care  to  be 
Exercised  in  Every-day  Living,  103' — -Duties  of  Teachers  in  the 
Church,  103 — Message  of  the  Church  Must  be  Proclaimed  to  All, 
104 — A  Great  Obligation  is  Ours,  104—  The  Grea^  Need  of  Faith  and 
Good  Works,  105 — Our  Duty  to  Raise  a  Warning  Voice,  106 — Our 
Service  Should  Be  Faithful,  106. 


Reality  of  the  Mission  of  Joseph  Smith,  107 — Reality  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  108 — Testimony  of  the  Kindness  and  Reality  of  God, 
109— The  Reality  of  the  Work  of  the  Patriarchs,  109— Priesthood 
Should  Be  Honored,  110 — A  Prayer  to  Bless  the  Church  and  its 
Members,  110. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  115 

God's  Marvelous  Work,  116 — We  Live  In  a  Most  Wonderful  Age, 
116 — Great  Modern  Inventions  and  Discoveries,  116 — Inspiration 
and  the  Greater  Accumulation  of  Knowledge  the  Cause,  117 — Has 
the  Race  Progressed  Intellectually?  118 — Has  the  Race  Made  Moral 
Progress?  118 — Where  Much  is  Given  Must  is  Required,  119. 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed   27 

Never  Despair,  27 — The  Testimony  of  the  Gospel  in  Us  Must  Come 
Out,  28— Prejudices  Not  All  Eliminated,  29— A  Wealth  of  Spiritu- 
ality and  Faith,  29 — God  Lives  and  This  is  His  Church,  29. 


(Nielsen,  Elder  Soren  M.  .  . 

Parks,  Elder  A.  E  

Peterson,  Elder  O.  B.   

Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L  

Randall,  Elder  M.  Howard 
Richards,  Elder  George  F. 


51 
71 
143 
97 
47 
87 


Smith,  Elder  Hyrum  G. 


107 


Taylor,  Elder  Elmer  F  

Third  Day,  Morning  Session 


141 
121 


160 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dayt  Afternoon  Session 

Wells,  Elder  John,  

Wells,  Elder  Junius  F  

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S  

Whitney,  Elder  Orson  F.  .  . 


136 
74 
66 

132 
91 


Fifty  Years  of  Service,  91 — The  City  of  William  Penn,  91 — The 
Declaration  of  Independence,  92 — An  Act  of  Heroism,  93 — Jeffer- 
son and  Rousseau,  93 — American  and  European  Ideals,  93 — Lincoln 
and  Joseph  Smith,  94 — The  Mission  of  America,  94 — Alexander  the 
Great,  95 — Rome's  Unconscious  Service  to  Christ,  96 — The  Divine 
Purpose,  96 — Israel  and  the  Gentiles,  97 — The  Glorious  Future,  97. 


The  Beginning  of  the  Work,  80 — The  First  Vision,  a  Lesson  to  All, 
80— Truth  Defined,  81— All  Truth  Accepted,  81— Relative  Value  of 
Truth,  81— Relative  Validity  of  Truth,  82— Read  Section  93  of  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  83. 


Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A 


80 


Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar 


77 


jr~*= — —  1 

k  WHENCE  THIS  GOSPEL  WE  TEACH? 


Read: 

"Restoration  of  the  Gospel" 

By  OSBORNE  J.  P.  WIDTSOE 

"This  book  prepared  by  Elder  Osborne  J.  P.  Widtsoe,  dealing  with 
the  important  subject  of  the  Restoration  of  the  everlasting  Gospel, 
should  be  read  and  its  contents  carefully  considered  by  those  who  are 
seeking  after  truth.  It  treats  the  Restoration  clearly,  and  places  before 
the  people  many  things  that  have  not  been  generally  considered  here- 
tofore. It  will  be  a  means  of  strengthening  the  faith  of  the  youth  of 
Israel  and  will  impart  information  that  is  invaluable.  May  the  spirit 
of  truth  accompany  the  work  and  rest  upon  all  those  who  diligently 
read  it  with  a  desire  to  learn  of  and  profit  by  the  Restoration  of  the 

Gospel!"  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr. 

PRICE  $1-00  POSTPAID 

iniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii  vimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimii  mi  minim  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiii  i 

A  HELPFUL  BOOK  IN  THESE  TIMES  OF  CONTROVERSY 

Science  and  Belief  in  God 

By  FREDERICK  J.  PACK 

A  discussion  of  Certain  Phases  of  Science  and  Their  Bearing  Upon 
Belief  in  the  Supreme  Being. 

$2.50  POSTPAID 

HiimiMmmiiiHiiiiiuiimiiiuiiiHiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiinuHiiiimiiiiuiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiu 

Articles  of  Faith 

By  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

A  consideration  of  the  principal  doctrines  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

This  book  will  be  helpful  to  all  who  desire  a  clear  and  concrete 
exposition  of  the  beliefs  and  attitudes  of  the  "Mormons." 


8 


f— — — — — I 

I  Discourses  of  Brigham  Young  | 

§     This  Great  Book  Should  be  in  Every  | 

Home  Library  b 

o  K 

©              No  Latter-day  Saint  home  library  is  complete  without  the  unique  O 

^        volume,  "Discourses  of  Brigham  Young."    Thousands  still  living  were  X 

k  thrilled  with  the  inspired  wisdom  of  the  great  colonizer.  They  heard  x 
x        the  words  fall  from  his  lips  that  were  a  comfort  and  a  guide  to  them 

©        in  their  daily  living.  ^ 

Those  same  words,  now  in  print,  can  help  and  inspire  the  new  ^ 

©       generations.    The  youth  should  be  encouraged  to  read  this  great  book.  S 

^        It  will  help  them  to  know  Brigham  Young  as  they  have  never  known  8 

k        him  before.   Thej-  can  appraise  his  doctrine,  not  by  tradition  or  garbled  S 

^       account,  but  by  the  perusal  of  sermons  accurately  transcribed.  ^ 

k             "Discourses  of  Brigham  Young"  will  be  sent  to  any  address  for  b 

k       $2.50  postpaid.   Special  price  to  members  of  Priesthood  Quorums — $2.00  © 

postpaid.    Orders  will  be  filled  mail  C.  O.  D.  at  $2.00  each,  if  desired.  8 


IIIIIHIIIIMIiniinNllllliniMlllinillMIIMIIIIIMIIIMINIIIIIMIIinilllllllllMnilinniMNIHMhlMMIIMIIIinilMNinMIMIIiniHIIHMIIHIIINNMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 


S  WHAT  DID  JOSEPH  SMITH  KNOW  ABOUT  SCIENCE? 


Read: 


Joseph  Smith  as  Scientist 

By  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

"In  the  life  of  every  person,  who  receives  a  higher  education,  in  or 
out  of  schools,  there  is  a  time  when  there  seems  to  be  opposition  be- 
tween science  and  religion;  between  man-made  and  God-made  knowl- 
edge. The  struggle  for  reconciliation  between  the  contending  forces 
is  not  an  easy  one.  It  cuts  deep  into  the  soul  and  usually  leaves  scars 
that  ache  while  life  endures.  There  are  thousands  of  young  people  in 
the  Church  today,  and  hundreds  of  thousands  throughout  the  world,  who 
are  struggling  to  set  themselves  right  with  the  God  above  and  the  world 
about  them.  It  is  for  these  young  people,  primarily,  that  this  book  has 
been  written." 

Deseret  Book  Company 


The  Home  of  Worth  While  Books 


