CS^K  Off?) 


ONE  HUNDRED  SEVENTH 

Annual 

Conference 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

April  4,  5,  6,  1937 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

PRINTED  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA 


A  THRILLING  STORY 

of  Century  One  of 

CHURCH  HISTORY 

ERE  is  a  new  story  of  "Mormonism,"  told  with  a  com- 
pleteness and  charm  that  will  thrill  Latter-day  Saints 
with  a  pride  of  achievement  and  at  the  same  time 
win  the  admiration  of  the  critic,  be  he  friend  or  foe.  In  a 
COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH,  B.  H. 
Roberts  has  done  a  masterful  piece  of  research  and  has  set 
down  the  record  of  Century  One — 1830  to  1930 — in  a  bril- 
liant appraisal  of  momentous  events.  The  reader  with  a 
sentimental  interest  will  be  fascinated  with  this  narrative 
of  truth  stranger  than  fiction;  the  reader  who  approaches 
the  new  work  with  the  critical  vision  of  the  historian  will 
find  it  fair  in  statement,  authentic  in  fact,  copious  in  detail 
and  sound  in  judgment. 

A  COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH  was 
written  by  Elder  Roberts  at  the  instance  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  with  a  commission  to  make  it  exhaus- 
tively complete,  from  the  remotest  beginnings  to  the  close 
of  the  Centennial  Conference  of  April  6,  1930.  The  final 
volume  ends  with  an  account  of  the  Conference  itself,  mak- 
ing the  history  technically  inclusive  of  all  that  happened  in 
Century  One  of  the  organized  existence  of  the  Church.  Thus 
it  is  a  fitting  commemoration  of  one  hundred  years  of  strug- 
gle and  achievement. 

This  monumental  work  is  not  to  be  confused  with  any  former 
history,  journal  or  chronicle.  Though  its  nucleus  is  the  his- 
tory of  "Mormonism"  published  a  few  years  ago  in 
AMERICANA,  running  serially  for  six  years  through  that 
magazine,  yet  this  History  is  NEW — new  in  its  wealth  of 
material,  new  in  method  of  treatment  and  new  in  its  physical 
representation  of  the  book  maker's  art. 

Cash  Price  $30.00 

For  further  information  address  your  inquiry  to 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


One  Hundred  Seventh  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints 

The  One  Hundred  and  Seventh  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah,  Sunday,  Monday,  and  Tuesday,  April  4,  5  and  6,  1937. 

All  the  proceedings  of  the  various  sessions  of  the  Conference  were 
broadcast  by  radio,  through  the  courtesy  of  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake 
City,  for  the  benefit  of  the  public  generally. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  was  in  attendance  and  presided  at  each  of 
the  sessions. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and 
David  O.  McKay. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
Stephen  L  Richards,  *,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F. 
Merrill,  Charles  A.  Callis,  and  Albert  E.  Bowen**. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy :  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S. 
Wells,  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  John 
H.  Taylor,  and  Rufus  K.  Hardy. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants :  Andrew  Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples, 
high  priests,  seventies  and  elders  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  and  General,  Stake, 
and  Ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations. 

Mission  Presidents:  Don  B.  Colton,  Eastern  States;  Bryant 
S.  Hinckley,  Northern  States;  Wilford  W.  Richards,  North  Cen- 
tral States ;  Elias  S.  Woodruff,  Central  States ;  James  M.  Kirkham,  East 
Central  States ;  LeGrand  Richards,  Southern  States ;  Joseph  J.  Daynes, 
Western  States;  Nicholas  G.  Smith,  California;  Preston  Nibley,  North- 
western States ;  Abel  S.  Rich,  Canada ;  Harold  W.  Pratt,  Mexico ;  Or- 
lando C.  Williams,  Spanish-American ;  Joseph  S.  Peery,  Temple  Block, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

*Richard  R.  Lyman  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 
** Albert  E.  Bowen  was  sustained  as  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
to  fill  the  vacancy  caused  by  the  death  of  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  Conference  was  held  in  the  great  Tabernacle. 

As  the  time  approached  for  commencing  the  services,  the  first  ses- 
sion of  which  was  held  Sunday  morning,  April  4,  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  the 
great  Tabernacle  auditorium  and  galleries  were  filled  to  capacity  with 
people  who  had  come  from  the  Stakes  and  Missions  of  the  Church.  In 
addition,  thousands  assembled  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds  and  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  immediately  south  of  the  Tabernacle,  where,  by  means  of 
amplifying  equipment  they  listened  to  the  proceedings  as  they  were  broad- 
cast from  the  Tabernacle. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  who  presided,  opened  the  meeting  prompt- 
ly at  10  o'clock  and  announced  that  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congre- 
gation would  sing  the  hymn,  "O  Ye  Mountains  High." 

After  the  singing,  the  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Charles 
R.  Jones,  President  of  the  Arizona  Temple. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 
Read  the  financial  and  statistical  report  of  the  Church,  as  follows : 

FINANCIAL  STATEMENT 
The  expenditures  by  the  Church  for  the  year  1936: 
Stake  and  Ward  Purposes: 

There  has  been  returned  from  the  tithes  to  the  stakes  and 
wards  for  the  construction  of  ward  and  stake  meeting 

houses  $  769,473.41 

For  ward  maintenance  expenses    741,596.60 

For  stake  maintenance  expenses    254,551.29 

$1,765,621.30 

Education : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  of  Church  school  system....$  657,455.23 
Temples : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  temples.— $  238,447.37 
Missionary  Work : 

For  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  all  the  missions,  and 
for  the  erection  of  places  of  worship  and  other  build- 
ings in  the  missions  $  827,132.03 

Total  $3,488,655.93 

which  has  been  taken  from  the  tithes  and  other  Church 
funds  and  returned  by  the  Trustee-in-Trust  to  the 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


3 


Saints  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  the  stakes 
and  wards,  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of 
Church  schools  and  temples,  for  charitable  and  mission 
activities. 
Charities : 

For  the  care  of  the  worthy  poor  and  other  charitable  pur- 
poses, including  hospital  treatment  $  234,019.17 

In  addition  to  charities  paid  from  the  tithes  as  before 
named,  there  has  also  been  disbursed  the  fast  offerings, 
other  charities  and  assistance  rendered  by  the  Relief 
Society  in  the  sum  of  $554,349.93,  which  amount  added 
to  the  $234,019.17  paid  from  the  tithes,  makes  the 
total  charity  assistance  rendered  by  the  Church  $  788,369.10 

Primary  Children's  Hospital : 

One  hundred  forty-three  children  were  treated  at  a  cost  of 
$24,450.00,  of  which  amount  $3,000  was  appropriated 
by  the  First  Presidency  and  $21,450  contributed  by 


the  Primary  Association  $  24,450.00 

Church  Security  Program : 

In  addition  to  the  charities  shown  herewith,  the  following 
donations  of  cash  and  commodities  have  been  received : 

Cash  (not  including  tithes  and  fast  offerings)   $  50,350.00 

Total  for  charities   $1,097,188.27 


37,661  bottles  of  fruit  and  vegetables. 
175,621  cans  of  fruits  and  vegetables. 
1,393  quilts. 
168  cords  of  wood. 
29  tons  of  coal. 
105,350  pounds  of  flour. 
363,640  pieces  of  clothing. 
1,934,536  pounds  of  fresh  fruit. 
134,425  pounds  of  fresh  vegetables. 
3,369  pounds  of  dried  fruit. 
8,457  pounds  of  dried  vegetables. 
264,513  pounds  of  grain. 
381  pounds  of  sugar. 
1,000  feet  of  lumber. 
23,975  pounds  of  meat. 
217,770  pounds  of  hay. 

1,937  pounds  of  honey,  sorghum  and  molasses. 
658,334  pounds  of  potatoes. 
37,608  pounds  miscellaneous. 

Summary — Erection  and  Improvement  of  Church  Buildings — 1936 

Appropriated  for  ward  and  stake  buildings  $  769,473.00 

Amount  raised  locally  (40%)    513,000.00 


Total 


$1,282,473.00 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Improvements  in  Temples    61,282.00 

Appropriated  for  mission  buildings    160,997.00 


Grand  Total  $1,504,752.00 

Employment — Church  Security  Program : 

Number  of  persons  provided  temporary  or  permanent  em- 
ployment in  private  industry  to  Dec.  31,  1936   2,292 

Approximate  number  of  persons  on  farm,  canning,  sewing 
and  other  projects  during  1936 

Those  who  needed  assistance   3,865  . 

Those  who  did  not  need  assistance   13,712 

Total  number  of  individual  persons  in  families  who  secured 

assistance  from  May  1  to  Dec.  31,  1936    24,317 

Fast  Offerings — Information : 

Increase 
over  1935 

Fast  offerings  paid  in  wards   125% 

Fast  offerings  paid  in  missions   26% 


Total  fast  offerings    107.3% 

Number  who  paid  fast  offerings  in  wards    76.4% 

Number  who  paid  fast  offerings  in  missions   25  % 


Total  who  paid  fast  offerings   68% 

Average  per  capita  fast  offerings  in  wards   120% 


The  following  wards  merit  worthy  commendation  for 
leading  the  Church  in  the  payment  of  Fast  Offerings. 
You  will  remember  that  the  Church  Security  Plan  was 
not  inaugurated  until  April — practically  May — 1936. 
Please  keep  in  mind  also  as  I  read  these  figures  that  the 
value  of  Fast  Offerings  lies  in  membership  participa- 
tion. Everybody  denies  himself  or  herself  for  the  good 
of  those  in  need.  The  amount  per  capita  in  these  wards 
is  not  the  result  of  any  large  contribution  from  one  or 
two  men,  but  from  many  who  have  conscientiously 


paid  their  offerings : 
81  wards  paid  over  $1.00  per  capita. 
Wards  showing  highest  per  capita  fast  offerings: 

Manhattan  Ward,  New  York  Stake  $  1.91 

San  Francisco  Ward,  San  Francisco  Stake    1.79 

Grant  Ward,  Rigby  Stake    1.77 

Rosette  Ward,  Curlew  Stake   1.53 

Missions  showing  highest  per  capita  fast  offerings : 

Czechoslovak   $  1.96 

Palestine-Syrian   .59 

Swiss-German    .59 

Eastern  States    .55 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


5 


Expended  for  the  Maintenance  of  Missionaries: 

There  has  been  collected  by  the  various  wards  of  the 
Church  and  paid  to  missionaries  to  assist  in  their  main- 
tenance -  $  82,368.65 

Average  cost  per  missionary  in  the  missions  during  the 
year  1936,  $29  per  month,  or  a  total  of  $348  per  year 
per  missionary.  There  was  an  average  of  1,794  mis- 
sionaries in  the  various  missions  during  1936,  making 
a  total  average  expense  for  the  year,  ($348.00x1,794)  624,312.00 

Estimated  average  earnings  per  missionary  $900  per  year, 
1,794,  average  number  of  missionaries,  makes  an  esti- 
mated total  of  what  these  missionaries  might  have 
.  earned  if  at  home  of  -   1,614,600.00 


Making  a  total  estimated  contribution  of  missionaries  and 
their  families  to  the  Church  for  the  preaching  of  the 
Gospel  $2,321,280.65 

STATISTICS  AND  OTHER  DATA  COMPILED  FROM  THE  ANNUAL  REPORTS 
FOR  THE  YEAR  1936 

There  were  on  Dec.  31,  1936:  118  Stakes  of  Zion;  1,001  Wards; 
80  Independent  Branches ;  or  a  total  of  1,081  Wards  and  Branches  in 
the  Stakes  of  Zion;  also  34  Missions  (including  the  European  Mission), 
933  Mission  Branches,  and  219  Districts. 

CHURCH  MEMBERSHIP 

Stakes    607,202 

Missions    153,488 

Total   :   760.690 


CHURCH  GROWTH 

Children  blessed  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  Church  in 


the  Stakes  and  Missions    20,499 

Children  baptized  in  the  Stakes  and  Missions    14,034 

Converts  baptized  in  the  Stakes  and  Missions   7,081 

Number  of  long-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  December  31, 

1936    1,813 

Number  of  short-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  December  31, 

1936    30 

Number  of  local  missionaries   97 


Total  number  of  missionaries  in  the  missions  of  the  Church  1,940 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  stakes   1,649 

TOTAL  MISSIONARIES    3,589 

Number  of  missionaries  who  enrolled  in  the  Missionary  Home  823 

Persons  recommended  to  the  temples  from  the  stakes   84,104 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


SOCIAL  STATISTICS 

Birth  rate,  30.6  per  thousand. 

Marriage  rate,  17.8  per  thousand. 

Death  rate,  7.2  per  thousand. 

Families  owning  their  own  homes,  59.7%. 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS,  STAKE,  WARD  AND  BRANCH 
ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  LAST  OCTOBER  CONFERENCE 

New  Mission  Presidents: 

Hilton  A.  Robertson  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  new 
Japanese  Mission,  with  headquarters  at  Honolulu,  Hawaii. 

Thomas  L.  Woodbury  appointed  president  of  the  Tahitian  Mission 
to  succeed  Pres.  LeRoy  Mallory. 

Preston  Nibley  appointed  president  of  the  Northwestern  States 
Mission  to  succeed  Pres.  Joseph  Quinney,  Jr. 

Elray  L.  Christiansen  appointed  president  of  the  Texas  Mission  to 
succeed  Pres.  James  M.  Peterson. 

William  W.  Seegmiller  appointed  president  of  the  Western  States 
Mission  to  succeed  Pres.  Joseph  J.  Daynes. 
New  Temple  President: 

Pres.  Joseph  Quinney,  Jr.,  appointed  to  preside  over  Logan  Temple 
to  succeed  Pres.  William  A.  Noble  (deceased). 
New  Members  Appointed  to  General  Committee — '  Church  Security 

Program : 

William  E.  Ryberg. 

Robert  L.  Judd. 

Marvin  O.  Ashton. 
New  Stake  Organized : 

Chicago  Stake  created  in  the  Northern  States  Mission.    The  new 
stake  is  composed  of  Logan  Square,  University,  North  Shore  and 
Milwaukee  Wards  and  Racine,  Rockford,  Aurora,  Batavia  and  Milwau- 
kee (South  Side)  Branches. 
New  Stake  Presidents  Appointed : 

William  A.  Matheson  appointed  president  of  the  Chicago  Stake. 

Wayland  R.  Wightman  appointed  president  of  the  Nebo  Stake  to 
succeed  Lee  R.  Taylor. 

Harvey  Fletcher  appointed  president  of  the  New  York  Stake  to 
succeed  Fred  G.  Taylor. 

Leslie  V.  Merrill  appointed  president  of  the  Franklin  Stake  to  suc- 
ceed Walter  K.  Barton  (deceased). 

Arnold  D.  Miller  appointed  president  of  the  North  Davis  Stake  to 
succeed  Pres.  Henry  H.  Blood. 

Joseph  Elmer  Williams  appointed  president  of  the  Blackf  oot  Stake 
to  succeed  Pres.  James  Duckworth. 
New  Wards  Organized: 

Melba  Ward,  Boise  Stake,  organized  from  independent  branch. 

Nyssa  Ward,  Boise  Stake,  organized  from  independent  branch. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


7 


Logan  Square  Ward,  Chicago  Stake,  formerly  branch  in  Northern 
States  Mission. 

Milwaukee  Ward,  Chicago  Stake,  formerly  branch  in  Northern 
States  Mission. 

North  Shore  Ward,  Chicago  Stake,  formerly  branch  in  Northern 
States  Mission. 

University  Ward,  Chicago  Stake,  formerly  branch  in  Northern 
States  Mission. 

Kelly  Ward,  Idaho  Stake,  organized  from  independent  branch  . 

Long  Beach  East  Ward,  Long  Beach  Stake,  created  by  the  division 
of  the  Long  Beach  Ward. 

Eastmont  Ward,  Los  Angeles  Stake,  created  by  the  division  of 
Belvedere  Ward. 

Rupert  Third  Ward,  Minidoka  Stake,  created  by  the  division  of 
Rupert  First  Ward. 

Pioche  Ward,  Moapa  Stake,  organized  from  independent  branch, 

Ruth  Ward,  Nevada  Stake,  organized  from  independent  branch. 

Vallejo  Ward,  Oakland  Stake,  organized  from  independent  branch. 

Rosemead  Ward,  Pasadena  Stake,  created  by  the  division  of  Al- 
hambra  Ward. 

San  Fernando  Ward,  Pasadena  Stake,  organized  from  independent 
branch. 

Pomona  Ward,  San  Bernardino  Stake,  organized  from  independent 
branch. 

New  Independent  Branches  Organized : 

Cody  Branch,  Big  Horn  Stake,  organized  at  Cody,  Wyoming,  with 
about  30  members  taken  from  Cowley  Ward. 

Homedale  Branch,  Boise  Stake,  was  formerly  dependent  branch  of 
Caldwell  Branch. 

Aurora  Branch,  Chicago  Stake,  formerly  branch  in  Northern  States 
Mission. 

Batavia  Branch,  Chicago  Stake,  formerly  in  Northern  States  Mis- 
sion. 

Milwaukee  (South  Side)  Branch,  Chicago  Stake,  formerly  branch 
in  Northern  States  Mission. 

Racine  Branch,  Chicago  Stake,  formerly  branch  in  Northern  States 
Mission. 

Rockford  Branch,  Chicago  Stake,  formerly  branch  in  Northern 
States  Mission. 

Redlands  Branch,  San  Bernardino  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of 
the  San  Bernardino  Ward. 

San  Rafael  Branch,  San  Francisco  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of 
the  Bay  Branch. 

The  name  of  Bay  Branch  has  been  changed  to  Santa  Rosa  Branch, 
San  Francisco  Stake. 
W ards  Disorganized : 

Ivins  Ward,  Idaho  Stake,  disorganized  and  annexed  to  Bancroft 
Ward. 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Alta  Vista  Ward,  Los  Angeles  Stake,  disorganized  and  merged  with 
Belvedere  Ward. 

Palisade  Ward,  Teton  Stake,  discontinued  and  annexed  to  Tetonia 
Ward. 

Mt.  Glen  Ward,  Union  Stake,  disorganized  and  transferred  to 
La  Grande  Ward. 
Branches  Disorganized : 

Penrose  Branch,  Big  Horn  Stake,  disorganized  and  transferred  to 
Byron  Ward. 

Ridgedale  Branch,  Malad  Stake,  consolidated  with  Wheatland 
Branch. 

Church  Leaders  Who  Have  Died : 

Apostle  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley. 

Wm.  A.  Noble,  president  of  Logan  Temple. 

Walter  K.  Barton,  Franklin  Stake  president. 

Henry  W.  Peppert,  Sacramento  Stake  Clerk. 

Heber  B.  Smith,  Cottonwood  Stake  clerk. 

Bishop  John  E.  Fowler  of  Ogden  First  Ward,  Weber  Stake. 

Edward  P.  Kimball,  Tabernacle  organist ;  chorister,  organist,  and 
official  guide  at  Washington,  D.  C,  L.  D.  S.  Chapel. 

George  M.  Cannon,  Sr.,  member  of  General  Board  of  Deseret 
Sunday  School  Union. 

Lillie  T.  Freeze,  former  member  Primary  General  Board. 

Hazel  Hill  Greenwood,  former  member  General  Board  Relief  So- 
ciety. 

Luella  Ferrin  Sharp,  leader  in  Church  musical  organizations. 
Ella  Hirte  Stoof,  wife  of  former  South  American  Mission  president, 
Reinhold  Stoof. 

Axelina  N.  Peterson,  wife  of  former  President  of  the  Swedish  Mis- 
sion. 

Harden  Bennion,  former  member  of  Salt  Lake  Stake  Presidency. 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

The  regular  Conference  proceedings  were  interrupted  at  10 :30  a.  m. 
to  permit  the  presentation  of  the  usual  Sunday  morning  Tabernacle 
Choir  and  Organ  broadcast.  The  following  program  of  choral  and 
organ  music  was  rendered  from  10:30  to  11 :00,  and  was  broadcast  by 
radio  throughout  the  United  States  and  Canada,  over  the  Columbia 
Broadcasting  System,  originating  over  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City : 

"Chorale  and  Prize  Song"  (Die  Meistersinger — Wagner)  Choir 

"Though  Deep'ning  Trials"  (Careless)   Organ 

"Jesu,  Priceless  Treasure"  (Bach)  Choir 

"Finlandia — On  Great  Lone  Hills"  (Sibelius)  Choir  and  Organ 

"And  then  Shall  Your  Light  Break  Forth"  (Elijah  by 

Mendelssohn)   Choir 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  was  conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


Organ  accompaniments  and  organ  solo  presentations  were  played  by 
Frank  W.  Asper. 


The  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "God  Moves  in  a  Mysterious  Way." 
PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  feel  that  a  great  mistake  was  made  in  announcing  that  there  are 
10,000  people  here ;  I  am  sure  the  number  is  nearer  12,500,  if  it  is  not 
15,000.  This  building  seats  8,000  people  comfortably,  and  there  are 
many  of  you  that  are  not  very  comfortable  now. 

Brother  Richard  Evans  has  given  me  a  subject.  I  had  not  fully 
made  up  my  mind  what  to  talk  about  here  today.  I  have  marked  a  half 
dozen  passages  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  I  have  thought  of 
three  or  four  poems  that  I  repeated  this  morning  before  leaving  home 
and  also  before  getting  out  of  bed.  I  take  the  following  from  the  con- 
tinuity used  by  Brother  Evans : 

Fret  not  thyself  because  of  evil  doers,  neither  be  thou  envious  against 
the  workers  of  iniquity. 

For  they  shall  soon  be  cut  down  like  the  grass,  and  wither  as  the  green 
herb. 

Trust  in  the  Lord  and  do  good;  so  shalt  thou  dwell  in  the  land,  and 
verily  thou  shalt  be  fed. 

******** 

A  little  that  a  righteous  man  hath  is  better  than  the  riches  of  many 
wicked. 

I  receive  regularly  any  number  of  anonymous  letters.  I  receive  any 
amount  of  advice  as  to  what  I  should  do,  even  over  the  signatures  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

GRATEFUL  FOR  SUPPORT  OF  MEMBERS 

I  am  very  grateful  to  know,  as  I  am  entering  upon  the  eighty-first 
year  of  my  life,  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  behind  me.  I  believe 
and  acknowledge  here  today  that  the  remarkable  and  splendid  health 
that  I  enjoy  is  due  principally  to  the  faith  and  the  prayers  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  to  God  hearing  and  answering  those  prayers. 

Since  we  last  met  I  have  celebrated  my  eightieth  birthday,  and 
since  that  time  I  have  put  in  as  many  hours  in  working,  if  not 
more  than  the  average  in  years  gone  by,  and  have  done  so  without 
fatigue  and  without  feeling  the  least  injury  by  reason  of  the  labor  that 
I  have  done.  I  desire  here  to  render  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  from 
Canada  on  the  north  to  Mexico  on  the  south,  and  in  the  islands  of  the 
sea  and  our  missions  all  over  the  earth,  my  sincere  and  heartfelt  grati- 
tude and  thanks  for  the  many  wonderful  letters  of  congratulation  that 
I  received  for  my  eightieth  birthday. 

I  am  truly  grateful  to  all  those  who  saw  fit  to  contribute  articles 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  the  November  number  of  the  Improvement  Era.  I  am  particularly 
grateful  to  Brother  Richard  L.  Evans  for  the  great  amount  of  work 
and  study  and  research  that  he  has  given,  and  for  the  work  that  he  did 
in  asking  people  to  contribute  articles  for  that  issue  of  the  Improvement 
Era. 

ACTS  WITH  FULL  APPROVAL  OF  OTHERS 

I  want  the  good  people  to  know  that  I  am  not  wasting  any  time  or 
any  sleep,  in  thinking  or  planning  because  of  the  anonymous  letters  that 
I  receive  and  the  advice  that  I  get  from  a  great  many  good  Latter-day 
Saints,  first-class  Latter-day  Saints,  full  tithepayers,  who  think  that  I 
am  making  a  mistake.  I  want  you  good  people  who  are  here  assembled, 
and  all  the  members  of  the  Church,  to  know  that  I  shall  do  nothing  but 
what  I  have  the  approval  of  my  counselors  and  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles.  I  want  you  to  know  that  from  the  day  that  I  became 
the  President  of  the  Tooele  Stake  of  Zion,  in  1880,  I  have  desired  to 
know  the  mind  and  the  will  of  the  Lord.  In  humility  and  in  prayerful- 
ness  I  have  sought  for  that,  and  I  pledged  myself  in  Tooele  to  give  the 
best  that  was  in  me  for  the  advancement  of  the  work  of  the  Lord  in 
that  Stake  of  Zion,  and  I  have  fulfilled  that  pledge.  I  made  the  same 
pledge  to  the  people  who  were  assembled  in  this  building  when  I  first 
became  the  President  of  the  Church,  over  eighteen  years  ago,  and  I  rejoice 
that  I  have  kept  that  pledge.  I  have  but  one  desire  and  that  is  the 
advancement  of  the  work  of  God  and  the  individual  salvation  of  those 
who  have  received  the  witness  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  My  constant  prayer 
is  that  my  ideas  and  desires  shall  be  subordinated  to  the  desires  of  God. 
I  am  anxious  only  that  the  will  of  our  Father  in  heaven  shall  be 
carried  out  in  all  the  works  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

CHURCH  SETS  EXAMPLE  TO  WORLD 

I  am  grateful  for  the  loyalty  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  believe 
there  is  no  other  spot  in  the  world  where  an  audience  of  this  kind  can 
be  brought  together — in  fact,  I  am  sure  of  it — in  which,  almost  without' 
exception  every  one  has  an  abiding  testimony  and  a  knowledge  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  and  that  in  very 
deed  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living  God.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  went  willingly  to  martyrdom  for  the  cause,  and 
made  the  statement  that  he  was  going  like  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter,  but 
that  he  had  a  conscience  void  of  offense  towards  God,  and  towards 
all  men,  and  that  it  should  yet  be  said  of  him  that  he  was  murdered  in 
cold  blood.  I  believe  that  that  fact  is  acknowledged  today  all  over 
the  world. 

To  me  one  of  the  greatest  of  all  the  great  evidences  that  he  was  a 
prophet  of  God  is  shown  by  the  wonderful  revelations  that  were  given 
to  the  people  before  the  Church  was  organized.  Revelation  after  reve- 
lation tells  that  the  field  was  white  already  to  harvest,  and  those  who 
would  thrust  in  their  sickle  should  reap.  It  is  marvelous  when  we 
contemplate  the  way  in  which  this  hymn  that  we  have  sung  here  today, 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


"God  Moves  In  A  Mysterious  Way,"  has  been  fulfilled  by  the  record 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  This  was  the  favorite  hymn  of  the  late  Presi- 
dent Wilford  Woodruff.  He  loved  it.  We  sang  it,  I  am  sure,  some- 
times twice  a  month  in  our  weekly  meetings  in  the  Temple,  and  very 
seldom  did  a  month  pass  by  when  that  song  was  not  called  for  by  Brother 
Woodruff.  He  believed  in  this  work  with  all  his  heart  and  soul,  and 
labored  with  all  the  power  that  God  gave  him  for  its  advancement.  That 
hymn  is  an  inspiration. 

HYMNS  FOUND  AID  IN  GOING  TO  SLEEP 

This  morning  I  repeated  ten  hymns  while  lying  in  bed,  trying  to 
go  to  sleep.  Sometimes  I  can  get  to  sleep  before  I  can  repeat  all  the 
verses  of  "A  Poor  Wayfaring  Man  of  Grief," — seven  long  verses.  Gen- 
erally I  can  get  to  sleep  by  the  time  I  have  repeated  four  verses ;  but  I 
tried  to  get  to  sleep  this  morning  by  repeating  ten  first-class  prayers  to 
the  Lord.  The  song  of  the  righteous,  we  are  told,  is  a  prayer  unto  the 
Lord,  and  I  rejoice  in  praying  to  the  Lord  in  those  songs  morning  after 
morning,  and  have  done  so,  I  am  sure,  for  thirty  long  years.  I  have 
learned  that  by  repeating  hymns,  and  taking  some  exercises,  and  then 
sitting  up  and  talking  to  a  dictaphone  I  become  level  enough  in  my  mind 
to  go  to  sleep.  After  trying  for  about  two  and  one-half  hours  to  go  to 
sleep  this  morning  I  finally  did  get  to  sleep. 

By  the  way,  something  else  that  I  generally  repeat  nearly  every 
morning  while  I  am  lying  awake  in  bed  is  a  revelation  given  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  after,  please  remember,  a  court  martial  by  the 
entire  forces  of  the  State  of  Missouri  had  tried  him  and  had  condemned 
him  to  be  shot  to  death  the  next  morning,  as  I  remember  it,  at  nine 
o'clock.  But  he  told  his  friends  they  need  not  worry,  that  God  had 
told  him  his  day  had  not  come.  To  my  mind,  one  of  the  greatest  of  all 
the  revelations  that  he  received  was  given  to  him  while  he  was  lying 
on  a  stone  floor  in  Liberty  jail. 

,  QUOTES  FROM  MEMORABLE  REVELATION 

I  quote  from  that  revelation : 

How  long  can  rolling  water  remain  impure?  What  power  shall  stay 
the  heavens?  As  well  might  man  stretch  forth  his  puny  arm  to  stop  the 
Missouri  River  in  its  decreed  course,  or  to  turn  it  up  stream,  as  to  hinder 
the  Almighty  from  pouring  down  knowledge  from  heaven  upon  the  heads 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

Behold,  there  are  many  called,  but  few  are  chosen.  And.  why  are 
they  not  chosen? 

Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon  the  things  of  this  world, 
and  aspire  to  the  honors  of  men,  that  they  do  not  learn  this  one  lesson — 

That  the  rights  of  the  Priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with  the 
powers  of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven  cannot  be  controlled  nor 
handled  only  upon  the  principles  of  righteousness. 

That  they  may  be  conferred  upon  us,  it  is  true ;  but  when  we  under- 
take to  cover  our  sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride,  our  vain  ambition,  or  to 
exercise  control  or  dominion  or  compulsion  upon  the  souls  of  the  children 
of  men,  in  any  degree  of  unrighteousness,  behold,  the  heavens  withdraw 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


themselves ;  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved ;  and  when  it  is  withdrawn, 
Amen  to  the  Priesthood  or  the  authority  of  that  man. 

Behold,  ere  he  is  aware,  he  is  left  unto  himself,  to  kick  against  the 
pricks,  to  persecute  the  Saints,  and  to  fight  against  God. 

We  have  learned  by  sad  experience  that  it  is  the  nature  and  disposition 
of  almost  all  men,  as  soon  as  they  get  a  little  authority,  as  they  suppose, 
they  will  immediately  begin  to  exercise  unrighteous  dominion. 

Hence  many  are  called  but  few  are  chosen. 

Now  mark  this: 

No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of 
the  Priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  by  gentleness  and 
meekness  and  by  love  unfeigned ; 

By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge,  which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the 
soul  without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile — ■ 

Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness,  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy 
Ghost ;  and  then  showing  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of  love  toward 
him  whom  thou  hast  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy. 

That  he  may  know  that  thy  faithfulness  is  stronger  than  the  cords 
of  death. 

Let  thy  bowels,  also  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men,  and  to  the 
household  of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly;  then 
shall  thy  confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God,  and  the  doctrine 
of  the  Priesthood  shall  distill  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven. 

The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  companion,  and  thy  scepter  an 
unchanging  scepter  of  righteousness  and  truth;  and  thy  dominion  shall 
be  an  everlasting  dominion,  and  without  compulsory  means  it  shall  flow 
unto  thee  forever  and  ever. 

VIRTUE  SHOULD  GARNISH  THOUGHTS 

What  a  marvelous  revelation !  What  a  wonderful  word  from  God 
to  us  through  His  prophet !  How  I  wish  that  the  Priesthood  were  always 
exercised  with  love.  How  I  wish  that  virtue  garnished  our  thoughts 
unceasingly.  How  I  wish  that  no  man  holding  the  Priesthood  of  the 
living  God  was  ever  guilty  of  allowing  any  words  to  fall  from  his  lips 
that  he  could  not  repeat  in  the  presence  of  his  mother.  Then  he  would 
be,  to  a  very  great  extent,  in  that  straight  and  narrow  path  that  leads 
to  life  eternal. 

There  are  very  few  things  in  all  the  world  that  are  more  demor- 
alizing than  what  are  known  as  "shady"  stories.  There  is  nothing  in 
all  the  world  of  the  same  value  as  a  love  of  God  and  a  desire  to /do  those 
things  that  we  know  would  please  God. 

USE  OF  LIQUOR1  VIOLATION  OF  GOSPEL 

Let  me  say  to  you  Latter-day  Saints  that  any  man  or  any  woman 
professing  to  be  a  Latter-day  Saint  who  keeps  liquor  in  his  or  her  home 
is  not  living  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  know  that  there  are  girls — 
good,  fine,  true,  virtuous  girls — who  have  lost  their  virtue  because  of 
liquor  in  the  homes  of  Latter-day  Saints.  They  lose  their  senses, 
become  drunk,  stupid,  and  then  they  lose  their  virtue ;  and  I  know  what 
I  am  talking  about. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


13 


DRUNKENNESS  SINCE  PROHIBITION  REPEAL 

With  the  help  of  the  Lord,  to  the  very  best  of  my  ability,  I  warned 
this  people  not  to  vote  for  the  repeal  of  the  Eighteenth  Amendment.  I 
warned  them  against  lies  that  were  being  circulated  to  the  effect  that 
there  was  more  drunkenness  and  more  use  of  liquor  than  there  had  been 
when  we  did  not  have  Prohibition.  Millions  of  dollars  of  money,  I  am 
sure,  was  expended  to  have  the  Eighteenth  Amendment  repealed.  I 
have  seen  scores  and  scores  of  drunkards  since  it  was  repealed,  and  I 
have  seen  women  go  into  restaurants  and  sit  down  and  drink  those  things 
that  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  know  they  should  not  drink.  I  never  saw 
a  drunken  man  in  Idaho  during  all  the  times  that  I  went  there  to  attend 
conferences  when  we  had  Prohibition,  but  on  the  second  trip  I  made 
there  after  Prohibition  was  repealed  I  got  on  a  bus  at  Pocatello  and 
there  were  two  drunken  men  on  the  bus  going  from  Pocatello  to  Idaho 
Falls.  I  waited  fifteen  minutes  as  I  remember  it,  at  Idaho  Falls,  in  the 
early  morning,  about  six  o'clock,  and  I  saw  three  more  drunks,  before 
the  car  arrived  to  take  me  to  Rexburg.  We  see  them  now  on  all  hands. 
The  money  that  is  being  expended  in  Utah  for  liquor  would  take  care 
of  those  that  need  help  if  used  for  that  purpose. 

CRITICISM  SHOWS  FAILURE  TO  OBSERVE  LAW 

The  Lord  God  Almighty  gave  to  us  a  revelation,  and  there  is  seldom 
a  conference  when  someone  does  not  take  it  upon  himself  to  tell  us: 
"Please  do  not  speak  on  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  We  hear  it  so  much, 
we  are  sick  and  tired  of  it."  Let  me  tell  you  something :  No  mortal  man 
who  is  a  Latter-day  Saint  and  is  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  ever 
sick  and  tired  of  hearing  it.  When  a  man  leaves  a  meeting  and  says  (I 
have  heard  it  in  the  dark)  :  "Can't  they  find  something  else  to  talk  about 
besides  the  Word  of  Wisdom ;  I  am  sick  and  tired  of  it"- — of  course  he 
is,  because  he  is  full  of  stuff  that  the  Word  of  Wisdom  tells  him  to 
leave  alone.  In  the  slang  of  the  town,  he  could  not  "give  himself  away" 
any  plainer  than  when  he  says  he  is  sick  and  tired  of  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  I  thank  God  nearly  every  day  of  my  life  for  the  Word  of 
Wisdom. 

I  never  thought  of  speaking  regarding  the  Word  of  Wisdom  in  my 
remarks  today,  until  now,  but  here  it  is : 

A  Word  of  Wisdom,  for  the  benefit  of  the  council  of  high  priests, 
assembled  in  Kirtland,  and  the  church,  and  also  the  saints  in  Zion— 

We  are  here  in  Zion. 

To  be  sent  greeting;  not  by  commandment  or  constraint — 

Some  people  say,  "It  is  not  given  by  commandment  or  constraint,  and 
therefore  I  can  take  just  a  little  sip."   But  what  does  it  say? 

"WILL  OF  GOD"  TO  BE  EMPHASIZED 

Not  by  commandment  or  constraint,  but  by  revelation,  and  the  word 
of  wisdom,  showing  forth  the  order  and  will  of  God — 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  will  of  God!  Write  it  down,  underscore  it  three  times,  and 
then,  if  there  is  anyone  here  who  is  not  keeping  it,  get  down  on  your 
knees  and  pray  to  God  with  all  your  heart  to  help  you  keep  it  in  the 
future,  that  your  example  may  perhaps  save  some  pure,  innocent,  sweet 
woman  from  losing  her  virtue. 

Showing  forth  the  order  and  will  of  God  in  the  temporal  salvation 
of  all  Saints  in  the  last  days — 

The  money  that  is  expended  for  tea,  coffee,  tobacco  and  liquor  would 
take  care  of  all  the  poor  people  in  the  world,  it  would  save  the  world, 
financially. 

Given  for  a  principle  with  promise. 

For  whom  is  it  adapted? 

Adapted  to  the  capacity  of  the  weak  and  weakest  of  all  Saints,  who 
are  or  can  he  called  Saints. 

Behold,  verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  you :  In  consequence  of 
evils  and  designs  which  do  and  will  exist  in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men 
in  the  last  days,  I  have  warned  you  and  forewarn  you,  by  giving  you  this 
Word  of  Wisdom  by  revelation. 

HIGH  SALARY  PAID  EXECUTIVE 

"Evils  and  designs."  I  have  read  that  one  million  dollars  a  year  in  sal- 
ary is  paid  to  the  president  of  a  tobacco  company.  As  I  remember  it,  140- 
odd  billion  cigarets  were  consumed  last  year,  and  the  tobacco  interests  are 
now  planning  to  make  it  200  billion  in  the  next  two  years.  What  is  a 
billion,  speaking  in  dollars  ?  The  great  New  York  Life  Insurance  Com- 
pany had  its  actuaries  make  a  calculation  during  the  World  War,  and  they 
announced  that  one  billion  dollars  was  the  equivalent  of  a  dollar  a  minute 
for  every  minute'  from  the  time  of  the  birth  of  the  Saviour  until  the 
World  War ;  and  we  put  over  our  share  of  the  six  billion  dollar  Liberty 
Loan  drive  in  Utah,  and  I  was  the  chairman  of  the  Liberty  Loan  com- 
mittee. 140-odd  billion  cigarets  were  smoked  in  the  United  States  of 
America  in  one  year — the  equivalent  of  140  a  minute  for  every  minute 
from  the  time  of  the  birth  of  the  Saviour  until  the  World  War  and 
now  they  want  to  make  it  200  billion. 

AVOID  HAVING  WINE  IN  HOMES 

That  inasmuch  as  any  man  drinketh  wine  or  strong  drink  among  you, 
behold  it  is  not  good,  neither  meet  in  the  sight  of  your  Father. 

Speaking  of  wine,  we  happen  to  know  that  in  a  Latter-day  Saint  home 
wine  made  from  our  own  grapes  made  some  people  drunk.  Wine  is  just 
about  the  finest  thing  in  the  world  to  make  people  drunk.  Home-made 
wine  is  just  as  bad  today  as  the  other  kind  if  you  keep  it  long  enough. 
Don't  have  it  in  your  house,  and  then  your  children  can  not  drink  it. 
Once  more  I  say:  no  true  Latter-day  Saint  will  have  anything  of  this 
kind  in  his  home  for  young  people  to  drink.  We  happen  to  know  of 
cases — I  wish  I  could  tell  them  all  to  you — that  would  make  your  hearts 
ache.    Perhaps  these  things  might  come  home  to  somebody's  own  child 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  15 

if  we  do  not  learn  to  study  the  word  and  will  of  God  and  then  try  to 
keep  it. 

LIQUOR,  TOBACCO  FOR  OTHER  PURPOSES 

And,  again,  strong  drinks  are  not  for  the  belly,  but  for  the  washing 
of  your  bodies. 

And,  again,  tobacco  is  not  for  the  body,  neither  for  the  belly,  and  is 
not  good  for  man,  but  is  an  herb  for  bruises  and  all  sick  cattle,  to  be  used 
with  judgment  and  skill. 

We  arrest  people  if  they  set  houses  on  fire,  but  we  do  not  arrest 
them  if  they  burn  up  millions  upon  millions  of  dollars  in  tobacco  and  in  so 
doing  destroy  their  vitality. 

And  again,  hot  drinks  are  not  for  the  body  or  belly. 

And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  all  wholesome  herbs  God  hath 
ordained  for  the  constitution,  nature  and  use  of  man — • 

Every  herb  in  the  season  thereof,  and  every  fruit  in  the  season 
thereof ;  all  these  to  be  used  with  prudence  and  thanksgiving. 

Yea,  flesh  also  of  beasts  and  of  the  fowls  of  the  air,  I,  the  Lord, 
have  ordained  for  the  use  of  man  with  thanksgiving;  nevertheless  they 
are  to  be  used  sparingly. 

And  it  is  pleasing  unto  me  that  they  should  not  be  used,  only  in 
times  of  winter,  or  of  cold,  or  famine. 

WORD  OF  WISDOM,  PRAYERS  AND  HEALTH 

I  think  that  another  reason  why  I  have  very  splendid  strength  for 
an  old  man  is  that  during  the  years  we  have  had  a  cafeteria  in  the  Utah 
Hotel,  I  have  not,  with  the  exception  of  not  more  than  a  dozen  times, 
ordered  meat  of  any  kind.  On  these  special  occasions  I  have  mentioned  I 
have  perhaps  had  a  small,  tender  lamb  chop.  I  have  endeavored  to  live 
the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  that,  in  my  opinion,  is  one  reason  for  my  good 
health,  and  another,  for  which  I  thank  the  Lord,  is  the  prayers  of  the 
Saints  that  have  been  offered  and  answered  in  my  behalf. 

All  grain  is  ordained  for  the  use  of  man  and  of  beasts,  to  be  the  staff 
of  life,  not  only  for  man  but  for  the  beasts  of  the  field,  and  the  fowls 
of  heaven,  and  all  wild  animals  that  run  or  creep  on  the  earth. 

And  these  hath  God  made  for  the  use  of  man  only  in  times  of  famine 
and  excess  of  hunger. 

All  grain  is  good  for  the  food  of  man;  as  also  the  fruit  of  the  vine; 
that  which  yieldeth  fruit,  whether  in  the  ground  or  above  the  ground ; 

Nevertheless,  wheat  for  man,  and  corn  for  the  ox,  and  oats  for  the 
horse,  and  rye  for  the  fowls  and  for  swine,  and  for  all  beasts  of  the 
field,  and  barley  for  all  useful  animals,  and  for  mild  drinks,  as  also  . 
other  grain. 

BENEFITS  ACCRUE  FROM  KEEPING  COMMANDMENTS 

And  all  Saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking 
in  obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel 
and  marrow  to  their  bones. 

And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures.   

And  above  all,  they  shall  be  successful  financially.   One  of  the  main 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


things — no,  it  is  not  the  main  thing — the  main  thing  is  that  they  will 
grow  in  a  love  of  God ;  they  will  grow  in  a  testimony  of  the  divine  mis- 
sion of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith ;  they  will  grow  in  ability  and  strength 
to  set  examples  before  their  children,  that  they  will  have  those  children 
eternally,  instead  of  perhaps  setting  examples  that  will  cause  their  chil- 
dren to  depart  from  the  faith.  I  call  to  mind  the  sons  and  daughters  of 
some  of  my  nearest  and  dearest  and  finest  friends,  that  started  with  a 
little  cigaret;  then  that  was  not  strong  enough  and  they  used  a  strong 
cigar  or  a  pipe ;  in  time  they  started  drinking  whiskey ;  and  finally  they 
were  excommunicated  from  the  Church  because  of  losing  their  virtue 
while  under  the  influence  of  liquor. 

And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures ; 

And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint. 
50,000  COPIES  OF  PAMPHLET  DISTRIBUTED 

We  published  and  distributed  50,000  copies  of  a  pamphlet  containing 
the  remarks  of  Creed  Haymond,  Paul  Kimball  and  Joseph  J.  Cannon, 
proving  by  demonstration  in  rowing  and  in  running  foot  races  the  ful- 
filment of  this  promise. 

And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying  angel 
shall  pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them. 

CHURCH  LEADERS  BLESSED 

Do  you  want  to  live  a  long  time  ?  I  do.  I  would  like  to  stay  here 
at  least  another  twenty  years,  and  I  would  like  to  work  every  day  during 
that  twenty  years ;  and  I  expect  that  maybe  I  may  do  it,  if  I  live  as  I 
ought  to  live.  The  Lord  has  been  very  good  to  men  who  have  stood  at 
the  head  of  this  Church. 

Did  you  ever  stop  to  reflect  upon  the  fact  that  Brigham  Young  was 
a  man  of  great  strength,  physically,  when  he  was  called  away.  I  am  sure 
he  had  appendicitis,  and  we  knew  nothing  about  appendicitis  at  that  time. 
Did  you  ever  stop  to  reflect  upon  the  fact  that  John  Taylor  was  70-odd 
years  of  age  when  he  came  to  the  presidency  of  this  Church?  Did  you 
ever  stop  to  reflect  upon  the  fact  that  Wilford  Woodruff  was  over  80 
years  old  when  he  came  to  the  presidency  of  this  Church,  and  he  gave  us 
ten  long  years  of  splendid  work?  Lorenzo  Snow  came  to  the  head  of 
this  Church  when  he  was  85  years  of  age,  and  in  three  years  he  accom- 
plished some  of  the  most  remarkable  and  wonderful  things  for  the 
Church  that  have  ever  been  accomplished.  President  Joseph  F.  Smith 
was  past  the  time  of  retirement,  according  to  some  people,  and  should 
have  been  drawing  a  pension  for  two  years,  at  the  time  he  came  to  the 
presidency  of  the  Church.  He  was  62  years  old,  and  he  lived  to  be  80, 
giving  to  this  Church  18  years  of  vigorous,  strong,  forceful  leadership. 
I  came  to  the  presidency  of  this  church  when  I  was  62  years  old,  and,  lo 
and  behold,  everybody  tells  me  I  look  younger  and  stronger  and  better 
than  I  did  18  years  ago.   Let  us  remember  a  poem  that  I  have  repeated, 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


17 


first  in  San  Francisco,  and  later  in  New  York,  Detroit  and  in  many 
other  places : 

Age  is  a  quality  of  mind; 

If  your  dreams  you've  left  behind, 

If  hope  is  cold; 
If  you  no  longer  look  ahead, 
If  your  ambitions'  fires  are  dead — 

Then  you  are  old. 

But  if  from  life  you  take  the  best, 
And  if  in  life  you  keep  the  zest, 

If  love  you  hold; 
No  matter  how  the  years  go  by, 
No  matter  how  the  birthdays  fly — 

You  are  not  old. 

EXPERIENCES  IN  EUROPE 

I  can  prove  that.  I  went  up  to  Scotland,  when  I  was  presiding  over 
the  European  Mission,  and  an  old  lady  asked  me  my  age,  and  I  told  her 
that  if  I  lived  so  many  weeks  I  would  be  50.  She  said :  "Oh,  nae,  nae ; 
nae,  nae,  President  Grant;  never  see  65  again." 

Brother  Charles  W.  Penrose  arrived  in  Liverpool  to  take  my  place 
as  the  President  of  the  European  Mission,  and  he  brought  with  him  a  lot 
of  Elders,  25  or  30,  and  we  had  about  the  same  number  of  missionaries 
going  back  to  their  homes  that  very  day.  In  those  days  we  used  to  send 
100  to  150  emigrants  to  America  in  a  company.  They  could  come  here 
and  go  up  into  Idaho  and  other  places,  preempt  a  piece  of  ground  at  $1.25 
an  acre  and  have  a  fine  farm  that  afterwards  became  worth  $100.00  an 
acre  or  more.  But  that  is  all  stopped  now.  We  had  a  company  going  to 
America  that  very  day,  and  we  were  very  busy. 

At  night  the  shipping  firm  with  whom  we  had  done  business  for 
many  years  sent  us  four  tickets  to  the  Shakespeare  Theater.  When  Sir 
Henry  Irving,  and  Ellen  Terry,  or  some  other  great  actor  was  there  they 
would  send  us  tickets.  They  did  this  two  or  three  times  a  year  and  even 
oftener.  I  turned  to  my  wife  and  said:  "I  wouldn't  go  to  the  finest 
theater  on  the  face  of  the  earth.  I  am  tired.  I  am  going  to  bed  to  rest 
and  sleep.  You  take  a  missionary  to  bring  you  home  from  the  theater, 
and  a  couple  of  the  daughters,  and  use  these  tickets." 

Brother  Penrose  spoke  up  and  said,  "Sister  Grant  let  the  old  man  go 
to  bed ;  I  will  take  you  to  the  theater."  (Laughter). 

I  had  just  purchased,  with  the  approval  of  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  a  very  fine  home,  much  better  than  anything  we  had  had  while 
I  was  there.  He  came  over  to  England.  I  told  him  what  I  wanted  to  do, 
and  took  him  into  the  place.  The  minute  he  went  into  it  he  said,  "Buy  it 
quick,  Heber,  before  they  change  their  minds."  I  had  written  him  plead- 
ing with  him  to  let  me  come  home,  that  I  had  something  to  tell  him,  and 
I  felt  I  could  not  do  it  by  mail.  I  was  afraid  that  I  would  not  be  able 
to  get  what  I  wanted.  And,  lo  and  behold,  he  was  on  the  ocean  at  the 
time  I  wrote  that  letter.  He  said  that  I  should  not  only  buy  the  place 
but  I  should  get  all  the  furniture  I  could  at  the  same  time. 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


We  were  so  busy  that  day,  with  100  or  more  emigrants  and  25  or 
more  new  missionaries,  and  25  or  more  elders  going  home,  that  I  did 
not  even  have  an  opportunity  to  show  Brother  Penrose  his  new  home, 
although  all  we  had  to  do  was  to  walk  up  a  few  steps  and  over  a  wall, 
and  we  were  in  the  backyard  of  the  new  home.  Immediately  after  break- 
fast the  following  day  I  took  him  to  the  new  home,  and  somebody  asked 
the  man  who  was  moving  his  furniture  out  to  guess  our  ages.  He  looked 
us  over  carefully,  and  he  said,  "I  should  say  that  Mr.  Grant  is  65,  and 
that  Mr.  Penrose  is  60." 

I  said,  "I  have  heard  that  a  man  is  no  older  than  he  feels,  and  a 
woman  no  older  than  she  looks.  I  felt  so  old  that  I  went  to  bed  last 
night  because  I  was  tired,  and  this  old  man  here,  25  years  older  than 
I  am — so,  you  have  only  made  a  mistake  of  30  years — took  my  wife 
and  daughters  to  the  theater." 

The  next  Sunday  I  thought  that  I  would  get  that  corrected.  I  did 
not  appreciate  those  three  compliments.  While  at  Birmingham  I  asked 
the  president  of  the  branch  who  he  thought  was  older,  Brother  Penrose 
or  myself — expecting  to  have  a  correct  answer — and  he  said,  "The  idea 
of  asking  such  a  ridiculous  question;  anybody  can  see  you  are  very 
much  older  than  Brother  Penrose."  (Laughter) 

I  hit  the  table,  and  said  "That  settles  it,  no  old  man  will  ever  take 
my  wife  to  the  theater  again,"  and  he  never  has.  (Laughter). 

HEEDS  ADMONITION  TO  LIMIT  LENGTH  OF  REMARKS 

I  should  very  much  like  to  occupy  the  other  twenty  minutes,  but  I 
firmly  believe  that  if  you  hire  a  man  to  do  a  certain  work,  and  he  knows 
how  to  do  it  and  you  do  not,  it  is  a  wise  thing  to  let  him  do  it.  Now,  I 
have  a  very  dear  friend  who  is  my  doctor,  George  W.  Middleton,  and  he 
tells  me  that  40  or  45  minute  speeches  should  be  about  my  limit,  and  I 
have  only  two  more  minutes. 

BLESSINGS  AND  ADMONITIONS 

The  Lord  bless  you  and  help  you  to  keep  his  commandments,  and 
to  set  an  example  of  honesty,  integrity  and  devotion;  and  to  be  willing 
to  take  care  of  yourselves,  and  not  to  ask  anybody  else  to  do  it — if  you 
have  strength  to  do  it  yourself.  And  above  all,  may  he  help  you  so  to 
live  that  there  will  not  be  a  thing  in  your  home  that  you  can  not  go  down 
on  your  knees  and  thank  God  that  it  is  there,  and  that  you  will  not  do 
or  say  a  thing  that  will  be  displeasing  to  the  Lord.  I  do  not  expect 
any  of  you  to  ask  God  to  bless  you  for  keeping  wine  or  making  wine  in 
the  home  and  letting  it  get  old  and  strong  enough  to  make  your  children 
drunk;  but  if  you  cannot  ask  God  to  help  you  in  what  you  do,  repent 
and  so  live  that  you  can.  With  the  help  of  the  Lord  I  will  never  do  a  thing 
that  I  can  not  get  on  my  knees  and  plead  with  God  to  help  me  to  do  it, 
and  I  ask  no  more  of  any  man  than  I  am  willing  to  do  myself. 

God  bless  you  all  is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of 
our  Redeemer,  Amen. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


19 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn  "For  the 
Strength  of  the  Hills." 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  am  delighted  to  be  here  this  morning,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and 
to  have  listened  to  the  stirring  address  of  our  President.  If  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  will  follow  his  instructions  and  advice,  the  voice  of  the  Lord 
will  come  to  them  through  his  Holy  Spirit  and  they  will  be  impressed 
anew  with  the  grandeur  of  this  latter-day  work  and  they  will  realize  that 
a  mighty  power  came  into  the  earth  when  the  Lord  revealed  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  the  Gospel  in  this  dispensation. 

A  short  time  ago  a  prominent  man  in  our  country — a  financier — 
made  the  assertion  that  there  can  be  no  successful  operation  of  religious 
work  without  the  cooperation  of  all  the  people,  and  that  one  church 
organization  would  be  the  thing  to  accomplish  it.  He  expressed  the  wish 
that  all  the  different  churches  might  get  together  and  become  united. 
Naturally,  as  an  organizer  and  leader  of  men,  the  benefits  which  would 
result  from  such  a  union  of  the  churches  appealed  to  him  from  a  business 
point  of  view. 

But  this  gentleman  did  not  realize  that  the  mere  coming  together  to 
join  their  interests  and  to  find  common  objectives  and  principles  of 
belief  would  not  in  reality  make  the  churches  one.  Such  a  movement,  if 
promoted  with  sincere  intent  and  in  brotherly  confidence  and  love  might 
indeed  be  a  step  in  the  right  direction ;  but  more,  far  more  than  this  is 
necessary  to  unite  men  in  the  Church  of  Christ.  Divine  authority  is 
necessary  to  declare  and  make  plain  the  Gospel  plan  with  its  principles 
and  ordinances  for  man's  salvation ;  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  requisite 
to  give  witness  to  the  people  that  the  plan  is  true  and  divine ;  and  it  is 
essential  that  there  be  an  organization  of  men  holding  the  Priesthood  of 
God  to  teach  and  administer  the  same. 

In  the  days  of  Christ  and  the  Apostles  the  Church  was  set  up  and 
the  Gospel  preached  for  the  very  purpose  of  uniting  the  Saints,  and  all 
men  were  invited  to  come  into  the  fold,  under  one  great  head,  that  there 
might  be  one  Lord,  one  faith  and  one  baptism. 

I  remind  you  of  the  words  of  the  Apostle  Paul  when  he  said  that  he 
gave  some,  apostles;  and  some,  prophets;  and  some,  evangelists;  and 
some,  pastors  and  teachers  for  the  perfecting  of  the  Saints,  for  the  work 
of  the  ministry,  until  they  should  all  come  to  a  unity  of  the  faith,  unto 
a  knowledge  of  the  Son  of  God. 

In  the  days  of  our  Savior's  ministry  he  called  men  to  the  apostle- 
ship.  He  gave  Peter  the  keys  of  the  kingdom.  He  placed  him  at  the 
head  of  the  Church,  and  gave  him  power  to  seal  on  earth  and  to  seal  in 
heaven,  to  perform  the  work  that  he  should  do  himself,  had  he  remained. 
He  brought  forcefully  to  our  attention  the  need  of  leadership  and  unity. 
Upon  one  occasion  he  said : 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Whom  do  men  say  that  I  the  Son  of  Man  am  ? 

And  they  said ;  Some  say  that  thou  art  John  the  Baptist :  some,  Elias ; 
and  others,  Jeremias,  or  one  of  the  prophets. 

He  saith  unto  them,  But  whom  say  ye  that  I  am? 

And  Simon  Peter  answered  and  said,  Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son 
of  the  Living  God. 

And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  him,  Blessed  art  thou,  Simon 
Barjona;  for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father 
which  is  in  Heaven. 

And  I  say  unto  thee,  That  thou  art  Peter,  and  upon  this  rock  I  will 
build  my  church ;  and  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  it. 

And  I  will  give  unto  thee  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven:  and 
whatsoever  thou  shalt  bind  on  earth  shall  be  bound  in  heaven :  and  whatso- 
ever thou  shalt  loose  on  earth  shall  be  loosed  in  heaven. 

But  the  gates  of  hell  prevailed  against  Peter.  It  has  been  taught 
that  he  was  to  remain,  that  his  power  was  to  be  in  the  earth.  Well, 
that  is  true  so  far  as  the  influence  of  the  doctrine  he  taught  was  concerned 
but  the  gates  of  hell  did  prevail  against  Peter,  prevailed  against  the  work 
of  God.  Christ  himself  suffered  death,  and  his  apostles  also,  whom  he 
had  chosen  to  represent  him  in  the  earth.  The  establishment  of  his  work 
was  accomplished  in  the  day  and  generation  in  which  he  lived. 

And  there  came  an  end  in  that  dispensation  to  the  power  of  the 
Priesthood,  for  the  power  of  the  evil  one  destroyed  the  individual,  Peter, 
who  held  the  keys  of  the  Kingdom,  who  had  the  power  to  seal  on  earth 
and  to  seal  in  heaven. 

But  the  power  to  reveal  anew  was  still  in  force,  for  the  Savior  said : 
"Upon  this  rock  I  will  build  my  church" — the  rock  of  revelation — and 
the  gates  of  hell  could  not  prevail  against  that.  When  the  time  came  for 
our  Eternal  Father  to  establish  again  that  which  had  been  taken  from 
the  earth,  he  did  as  he  said  he  would,  and  he  revealed  the  truth  anew 
to  men  in  the  earth.  He  spoke  to  one  man  and  to  another  as  he  did  in 
the  days  of  Abraham,  and  he  re-established  the  plan  by  which  the  children 
of  men  might  be  saved,  by  which  men  and  women  might  become  enlight- 
ened and  work  out  their  own  salvation,  in  obedience  to  the  plan  of  our 
Eternal  Father. 

He  instituted  again  the  true  interpretation  of  repentance  from  sin 
that  has  been  stressed  here  this  morning  by  President  Grant.  He  brought 
into  the  world  again  the  ordinance  of  baptism  by  immersion.  He  revealed 
unto  the  children  of  men  the  truth  that  there  should  verily  be  one  Lord 
and  one  faith  and  one  baptism,  one  God,  the  Father  of  us  all.  This  is 
indeed  the  great  plan  by  which  the  children  of  men  may  work  and  ac- 
complish the  things  that  they  came  forth  to  do,  when  they  came  from  the 
presence  of  our  Eternal  Father  into  this  world. 

So  this  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  has  been 
established  with  apostles  and  prophets,  and  they  are  here  for  the  perfect- 
ing of  the  Saints,  for  the  work  of  the  ministry,  until  all  men  shall  come 
to  a  unity  of  the  faith. 

There  can  be  a  unity  of  the  faith,  a  universal  acknowledgment  of  our 
Father's  work,  if  men  and  women  will  only  listen  to  the  revelations  of 
God  that  have  come  to  the  children  of  men  in  this  dispensation  of  time  in 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


21 


which  we  live.  If  they  will  make  an  investigation,  in  full,  of  the  prin- 
ciples and  doctrines  of  Christ,  that  he  himself  established  in  the  day  when 
he  walked  among  men,  if  they  will  make  an  investigation  of  the  words 
of  the  prophets  that  were  spoken  from  the  day  of  Adam  until  Christ, 
they  will  find  recorded  here  in  the  earth  at  the  present  time  the  fulness 
of  the  everlasting  Gospel,  the  plan  by  which  our  Eternal  Father  revealed 
that  men  should  be  saved,  and  in  no  other  way. 

If  they  will  become  acquainted  with  the  history  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  they  will  discover  that  here  is  the 
Church  under  whose  banner  all  men  may  unite.  There  need  be  no  diver- 
sity of  opinion;  there  need  be  no  such  thing  as  antagonism,  for  the 
Lord's  work  does  not  admit  of  diversion  or  contention  or  antagonism, 
only  against  the  powers  of  evil.  They  will  find  in  this  Church  that  there 
is  salvation  for  the  living,  salvation  for  the  dead :  that  the  power  of  God 
is  vested  again  in  the  Saints ;  that  the  power  of  his  Priesthood  is  com- 
plete, that  his  commandments  are  certain,  and  that  his  ways  are  sure. 

If  there  is  anything  in  the  world  that  is  precious  to  me  it  is  the 
great  truth  which  our  Lord  has  revealed.  There  isn't  a  single  thing  in  it 
that  is  weak.  It  is  the  strongest  evidence  of  our  Eternal  Father's  plan. 
It  will  stand  the  most  rigid  analysis.  It  is  the  thing  that  will  bring  men 
and  women  together,  and  cause  them  to  repent,  and  do  away  with  the 
things  which  destroy  the  human  family.  It  will  give  them  character  and 
energy  and  power  to  carry  on  as  individual  sons  and  daughters  of  God 
ought  to  do  and  came  in  the  earth  to  do. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

"Doxology"  was  sung  by  the  Choir  and  congregation. 
Elder  Franklin  S.  Harris,  President  of  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity, offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  second  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  Sunday  afternoon  at 
2  o'clock. 

Once  more  the  great  Tabernacle  was  crowded,  every  available  space 
being  occupied,  and  again  thousands  of  people  congregated  in  the  Assem- 
bly Hall  and  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds,  where  they  listened  to  the  Con- 
ference proceedings  as  they  were  broadcast  from  the  Tabernacle. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Now 
Let  Us  Rejoice." 

Elder  Thomas  M.  Irvine,  President  of  the  North  Weber  Stake 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

An  anthem,  "Prayer  of  Thanksgiving,"  was  sung  by  the  Choir. 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

PAYS  TRIBUTE  TO  SINGERS  AND  MUSICIANS 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  indeed  honored  to  be  with  you  again 
and  to  partake  of  the  spirit  of  this  conference. 

I  should  like  again  to  pay  my  tribute,  for  I  feel  they  richly  deserve  it, 
to  this  great  Tabernacle  Choir  mission.  The  influence  which  they  are 
radiating  for  good,  and  the  prejudice  which  they  are  overcoming  cannot 
be  measured.  I  am  grateful  for  the  devoted  service  of  every  member  of 
the  choir,  for  the  devoted  service  of  Brother  Cornwall,  their  leader,  of 
Brother  Asper,  the  organist,  and  of  Brother  Evans  who  makes  the  an- 
nouncements.  Each  is  doing  a  splendid  job. 

During  the  course  of  the  conference  I  believe  we  are  to  hear  again 
from  the  Singing  Mothers,  under  the  direction  of  Sister  Lottie  Sackett. 
I  should  like  to  pay  to  them  my  respects  and  my  assurances  of  apprecia- 
tion of  the  great  work  they  are  doing.  They  are  indeed  becoming  one  of 
the  great  musical  institutions  of  this  Church.  May  the  Lord  continue  his 
blessings  unto  them. 

SAVIOR  HAD  TWO  GREAT  MISSIONS  ON  EARTH 

When  the  Savior  came  upon  the  earth  he  had  two  great  missions ; 
one  was  to  work  out  the  Messiahship,  the  atonement  for  the  .fall,  and  the 
fulfilment  of  the  law;  the  other  was  the  work  which  he  did  among  his 
brethren  and  sisters  in  the  flesh  by  way  of  relieving  their  sufferings,  and 
again  by  teaching  to  them  the  great  spiritual  facts  out  of  which  by  observ- 
ance may  come  eternal  life.  He  left  as  a  heritage  to  those  who  should 
come  after  him  in  his  Church  the  carrying  on  of  those  two  great  things — 
work  for  the  relief  of  the  ills  and  the  sufferings  of  humanity,  and  the 
teaching  of  the  spiritual  truths  which  should  bring  us  back  into  the  pres- 
ence of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

This  afternoon  I  wish  to  speak  somewhat  concerning  matters  which 
are  directly  related  perhaps  to  the  work  of  relieving  our  sufferings  and 
our  human  ills,  and  I  shall  leave  to  others  primarily  the  instruction  with 
reference  to  those  great  spiritual  truths  which  shall  bring  us  back  into  the 
presence  of  God. 

RESPONSIBILITY  OF  AUTHORITIES 

I  want  to  read  you  the  last  verses  of  the  first  chapter  of  Jacob  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  and  the  second  verse  of  the  second  chapter,  as  indicat- 
ing to  you  the  responsibility  which  I  regard  the  Authorities  of  this  Church 
to  be  under  as  between  themselves  and  yourselves  and  between  all  of  us 
and  our  God. 

For  I,  Jacob,  and  my  brother  Joseph  had  been  consecrated  priests 
and  teachers  of  this  people  by  the  hands  of  Nephi. 

And  we  did  magnify  our  office  unto  the  Lord,  taking  upon  us  the 
responsibility,  answering  the  sins  of  the  people  upon  our  own  heads  if 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


23 


we  did  not  teach  them  the  word  of  God  with  all  diligence;  wherefore, 
by  laboring  with  our  might  their  blood  might  not  come  upon  our  garments ; 
otherwise  their  blood  would  come  upon  our  garments,  and  we  would  not 
be  found  spotless  at  the  last  day. 

Now,  my  beloved  brethren,  I,  Jacob,  according  to  the  responsibility 
which  I  am  under  to  God,  to  magnify  mine  office  with  soberness,  and  that 
I  might  rid  my  garments  of  your  sins,  I  come  up  into  the  temple  this  day 
that  I  might  declare  unto  you  the  word  of  God.'' 

I  am  not  proposing  to  talk  to  the  people  about  their  sins,  but  I  am 
hoping  to  say  to  you  by  way  of  warning  and  admonition  some  of  the 
things  which  have  come  within  my  knowledge  and  of  which  I  feel  under  a 
solemn  duty  to  tell  you. 

Recently  I  have  had  opportunity  to  discuss  world  conditions  with 
men  from  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic  who  are  leaders  in  industry  and 
finance. 

BY  WAY  OF  WARNING  AND  ADMONITION 

Pursuant  to  the  responsibility  of  which  Jacob  spoke,  I  deem  it  my 
duty  to  tell  members  of  the  Church,  by  way  of  warning  and  admonition, 
of  what  the  near  future  may  bring  insofar  as  these  men  can  foresee.  I 
devoutly  hope  they  may  be  in  error  in  their  judgment ;  I  fear  they  may 
speak  too  near  the  truth.  But  whatever  the  eventuality  may  turn  out 
to  be,  I  am  now  giving  the  soundest  human  forecast  of  which  I  know. 

MILLIONS  SPENT  ON  WAR  MATERIALS 

European  industrialists  make  these  statements :  That  European 
countries  are  now  spending  eleven  billions  of  dollars  a  year  on  military  ar- 
mament; that  Great  Britain  alone  is  spending  two  billion  dollars;  that 
European  nations  are  piling  up  enormous  quantities  of  raw  materials  used 
in  war,  particularly  the  metals ;  that  one  nation  has  placed  an  order  for  the 
total  world  output  of  a  certain  metal  for  a  year  and  a  half  ahead ;  that 
stocks  of  raw  materials  of  all  war-like  sorts  now  accumulating  are  many 
times  greater  than  were  gathered  together  at  the  end  of  the  World  War. 
On  this  statement  it  is  clear  that  these  gathered  materials  are  not  now 
destined  for  any  useful  purpose ;  that  they  are  not  for  the  service  but  for 
the  destruction  of  man ;  that  if  they  shall  be  used  in  war,  they  will  be  just 
that  much  human  labor  burned  up  without  beneficial  return  to  man — just 
as  if  so  much  money  were  burned  up  in  a  furnace.  It  will  be  a  tragic  and 
wicked  waste. 

PURCHASES  REACT  UPON  COMMODITY  PRICES 

These  men  also  assert  that  these  tremendous  purchases  of  war  stocks 
have  advanced  prices  of  the  materials  concerned;  that  these  price  ad- 
vances have  reacted  on  other  manufactured  commodities,  the  prices  of 
which  have  also  advanced ;  that  these  advances  have  resulted  in  advances 
of  labor  costs ;  and  that  on  account  of  all  these  advances,  there  will  be  in 
the  immediate  future  a  period  of  prosperity  or  inflation,  which  ever  you 
choose  to  call  it,  in  which  the  costs  of  living  will  go  up,  and  we  shall  pay 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


more  for  food,  clothing,  fuel  and  shelter.  American  financiers  say  this 
means  the  value  of  the  dollar  will  go  down — that  is,  a  dollar  will  buy  less 
and  less  of  the  necessaries  of  life. 

EXTERMINATING  WAR  AND/OR  CHAOTIC  DEPRESSION 

These  experienced  financiers  and  industrialists  further  say  that  this 
prosperity  period  will  be  over — some  say  in  two  years,  some  say  in 
ten,  that  if  war  shall  come,  the  period  will  last  till  the  end  of  the  war; 
but  that  if  the  war  does  not  come,  then  this  prosperity  period  will  end 
so  soon  as  the  nations  feel  reasonable  security  in  a  period  of  peace. 

These  same  authorities  declare  that  if  war  shall  come,  its  ending  will 
leave  the  world  in  a  state  of  exhaustion  heretofore  unknown  to  modern 
times ;  that  the  depression  from  which  we  are  now  emerging  will  be  but  as 
a  shadow  of  the  real  hard  times  which  will  then  come.  They  affirm  that 
if  war  does  not  come,  but  instead  this  sense  of  temporary  security,  that 
then  the  nations  will  dispose  of  their  excess  war  materials,  that  this  will 
close  great  industries  and  bring  idleness ;  that  the  resulting  loss  of  markets 
and  trade  will  bring  ruin  to  industries,  and  that  the  depression  and  in- 
dustrial paralysis  which  follows  will  be  the  full  equal  of  that  which  would 
follow  another  World  War.  They  feel  that  this  next  world  depression 
will  be  near,  if  not  quite,  a  chaos  which  will,  in  the  existing  state  of  mind 
of  the  peoples  of  the  world,  threaten  the  very  existence  of  government,  of 
property,  of  human  rights,  of  liberty,  even  of  the  family  itself. 

Everyone  who  reads  the  newspapers  knows  that  the  naval  and  mili- 
tary leaders  of  all  nations  believe  the  next  war  will  look  to  the  exter- 
mination of  nations,  not  the  destruction  of  armies ;  that  not  alone  shall  the 
able-bodied  soldiers  be  cut  down,  but  that  innocent  babes,  their  mothers, 
the  aged,  decrepit,  and  infirm  are  to  be  slaughtered.  Great  Britain  is 
providing  a  gas  mask  for  every  man,  woman,  child  and  infant  in  the 
United  Kingdom,  and  the  people  are  being  trained  to  use  them  as  a  pro- 
tection against  the  poison  gas  their  enemies  are  expected  to  use.  The 
next  war  will  not  be  a  series  of  battles,  but  of  butcheries. 

EUROPEANS  PLAN  TO  HAVE  U.  S.  PAY  FOR  WAR 

Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  our  former  associates  in  the  World 
War  owe  us  the  money  which  we  lent  them  amounting  to  over  ten  bil- 
lions of  dollars,  and  also  owe  us  the  great  bulk  of  the  interest  which  we, 
the  people  of  the  United  States  have  been  paying  on  that  loan,  and 
notwithstanding  they  took  tremendous  loot  from  Germany  at  the  end  of 
the  War  of  which  we  did  not,  I  am  proud  to  say,  take  a  cent,  war  loot, 
counting  the  German  colonial  possessions,  many,  many  times  greater  than 
the  money  they  owe  us,  nevertheless  there  is  strongest  reason  for  be- 
lieving that  some  of  the  most  skilled,  astute,  and  shrewd  diplomats,  politi- 
cians, and  statesmen  of  all  Europe  are  now  planning  to  have  the  people 
of  the  United  States  finance  the  next  European  war  either  before  the 
war  begins  or  during  its  progress. 

Furthermore,  certain  of  these  same  diplomats,  politicians,  and  states- 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  25 


men  are  planning  to  entice  the  United  States  into  an  offensive  and  de- 
fensive military  alliance  in  order  that  we  shall  participate  in  that  next 
world  war  by  sending  our  young  men  to  the  battlefields  of  Europe  The 
argument  they  now  plan  to  use  to  bring  this  about  is  that  in  this  way 
only  can  the  peace  of  the  world  be  preserved  While  this  is  a  most 
profound  fallacy,  it  will  unfortunately  find  a  sympathetic  ear  among 
many  of  the  people  of  this  country  who  do  not  fully  understand  inter- 
national relations.  It  will  require  the  wisest  statesmanship  on  our  part 
to  prevent  the  United  States  from  becoming  again  the  victim  of  a 
world  military  catastrophe. 

TERRIBLE  DEPRESSION  INDICATED  BY  SIGNS 

We  shall  hope  and  pray  that  these  men  who  predict  such  a  dire 
future  are  in  error.  But  whether  or  not  these  men  are  seeing  false 
visions  or  are  peering  accurately  into  the  future,  yet  I  know  of  no 
responsible  authority  who  challenges  the  forecast  that  within  the  next 
few  years  we  shall,  in  the  normal  course,  suffer  a  depression  far  more 
serious,  affecting  intimately  far  greater  numbers  of  the  people,  than  the 
one  we  are  now  finishing. 

This  prospect  gives  a  new  significance  to  the  Church  Security  Plan 
and  gives  the  final  but  unneeded  evidence  of  the  inspiration  which  led 
President  Grant  to  inaugurate  that  great  and  far-reaching  movement.  If 
that  chaos  shall  come  which  these  men  fear,  then  those  only  will  survive 
who  shall  extend  the  one  to  the  other  a  mutual,  brotherly,  loving,  unselfish 
help.  In  this  view  we  may  not  believe  we  are  at  the  end  of  the  Security 
Plan ;  we  are  only  at  the  beginning. 

These  men  to  whom  I  have  referred  bemoan  with  united  voice  this 
great  world-wide  tragedy  which  they  feel  they  clearly  foresee,  but  which 
they  assert  they  have  no  power  to  avert.  Indeed,  one  feels,  rather 
than  sees,  that  no  human  power  can  cope  with  and  ward  off  this  threaten- 
ing cataclysm. 

Reading  together  the  Scriptures  and  the  signs  of  the  times,  and  re- 
membering that  the  measure  of  time  with  God  is  not  the  measure  of  time 
with  man,  one  cannot  but  consider  whether  we  be  not  now  in  the  very 
times  foretold  by  the  Savior  in  his  great  discourse  on  the  Mount  of  Olives, 
and  predicted  by  the  prophets  from  most  ancient  times.  Are  not  the 
anti-Christs  now  walking  the  earth  ? 

STRENGTH  NEEDED  TO  MEET  EMERGENCY 

When  we  see  how  far  beyond  the  reach  of  human  mind  and  hand 
the  world  today  has  gone,  when  we  calmly  ponder  and  reflect  upon  the 
crumbling  of  human  ideals  and  institutions  no  matter  how  sacred  they 
have  been  heretofore  held,  and  when  we  peer  down  into  the  unfathom- 
able abyss  into  which  man  seems  ready  to  plunge,  unless  in  God's  mercy 
he  shall  be  drawn  back,  we  do  glimpse  darkly  and  in  broadest  outline 
only,  the  working  of  those  great  infinite  forces  of  right  and  wrong  which 
had  their  birth,  so  far  as  we  know,  when  Satan  and  his  hosts  were  thrust 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


from  heaven,  and  truth  and  falsehood  began  their  millenniums  of  conflict 
for  mastery.  May  the  Lord  give  us  strength  to  meet  this  test  if  it  shall 
come. 

PRECAUTIONARY  MEASURES  SUGGESTED 

What  may  we  as  a  people  and  as  individuals  do  for  oureslves  to 
prepare  to  meet  this  oncoming  disaster,  which  God  in  his  wisdom  may 
not  turn  aside  from  us? 

First,  and  above  and  beyond  everything  else,  let  us  live  righteously, 
fearing  God  and  keeping  his  commandments,  that  we  may  in  part  claim 
his  blessing  as  of  right,  and  not  as  of  mercy  only.  Along  this  way  only 
lies  happiness  and  salvation.    For  the  Lord  has  said : 

Wherefore,  fear  not  even  unto  death;  for  in  this  world  your  joy  is 
not  full.  *  *  *  * 

Therefore,  care  not  for  the  body,  neither  the  life  of  the  body;  but 
care  for  the  soul,  and  for  the  life  of  the  soul. 

And  seek  the  face  of  the  Lord  always,  that  in  patience  ye  may  possess 
your  souls,  and  ye  shall  have  eternal  life."  (Doctrine  and  Covenants 
101 :36-38.), 

Let  us  avoid  debt  as  we  would  avoid  a  plague ;  where  we  are  now 
in  debt  let  us  get  out  of  debt ;  if  not  today,  then  tomorrow. 

Let  us  straitly  and  strictly  live  within  our  incomes,  and  save  a  little. 

Let  every  head  of  every  household  see  to  it  that  he  has  on  hand 
enough  food  and  clothing,  and,  where  possible,  fuel  also,  for  at  least  a 
year  ahead.  You  of  small  means  put  your  money  in  foodstuffs  and 
wearing  apparel,  not  in  stocks  and  bonds ;  you  of  large  means  will  think 
you  know  how  to  care  for  yourselves,  but  I  may  venture  to  suggest  that 
you  do  not  speculate.  Let  every  head  of  every  household  aim  to  own 
his  own  home,  free  from  mortgage.  Let  every  man  who  has  a  garden 
spot,  garden  it ;  every  man  who  owns  a  farm,  farm  it. 

Let  us  again  clothe  ourselves  with  these  proved  and  sterling  virtues 
— honesty,  truthfulness,  chastity,  sobriety,  temperance,  industry  and 
thrift ;  let  us  discard  all  covetousness  and  greed. 

MAN  MUST  WORK 

We  must  purge  our  hearts  of  the  love  of  ease ;  we  must  put  out  from 
our  lives  the  curse  of  idleness.  God  declared  that  mortal  man  should  earn 
his  bread  by  the  sweat  of  his  brow.  That  is  the  law  of  this  world.  In 
the  past  it  has  taxed  our  economic  strength  and  system  to  keep  the 
relatively  very  few  idle  rich.  That  task  shows  us  that  no  great  groups  can 
be  kept  in  idleness.  It  surely  is  not  natural  to  believe  that  they  may.  People 
have  been  insufficiently  fed  and  clad  with  every  one  working  who  was 
able  to  work.  Why  delude  ourselves  into  thinking  that  a  third  of  us 
may  live  in  idleness  and  all  of  us  be  better  off  ?  If  a  third  may  be  idle,  and 
all  be  better  off  than  now,  then  why  not  a  half  idle  and  increase  the  pros- 
perity; and  if  half,  why  not  two-thirds,  and  if  two-thirds,  then  all  of  us 
idle  and  have  every  man  a  millionaire,  and  nobody  working. 

Furthermore,  to  provide  by  law  that  a  third  shall  live  off  the  two- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


27 


thirds,  is  to  set  up  a  legal  slavery  of  the  two-thirds  who  work.  As  one 
within  the  age  of  the  proposed  idle  class,  I  protest  with  all  the  spirit  and 
strength  I  possess  against  the  infliction  upon  me  of  such  a  curse.  May 
the  Lord  forbid  that  this  shall  come. 

For  the  decrepit  and  infirm,  from  any  cause,  I  have,  we  all  have, 
the  deepest  sympathy,  as  also  for  those  in  distress  from  causes  beyond 
their  control.  To  all  such  we  owe  a  sacred  duty  to  help.  God's  law  has 
always  been  "Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thy  self."  This  we  must 
do.  But  side  by  side  with  this  law  is  that  other  law,  declared  from  the 
beginning,  that  while  man  can  work,  he  must  work.  These  are  the  two 
great  laws,  the  two  fundamental  principles  behind  the  Church  Security 
Plan.  The  aim  of  that  plan  is  to  put  those  two  great  truths  into  the  lives 
of  all  of  us. 

May  God  give  unto  us  the  power  always  to  see  the  truth.  May  he 
increase  our  faith  day  by  day.  May  he  enable  us  from  hour  to  hour  to 
live  more  nearly  to  him,  to  keep  his  commandments,  to  follow  along  the 
lines  which  he  has  marked  out  for  us.  May  he  give  us  wisdom  to  foresee 
and  to  vision  the  future.  May  he  give  us  the  strength  and  the  power  of 
the  Spirit,  to  prepare  for  that  future,  whatever  it  may  be.  That  these 
blessings  may  come  to  us,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "O  My  Father,"  Claudius  Doty,  soloist. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  morning  as  I  listened  to  the  sincere  and  earnest  appeal  made  by 
President  Grant  to  the  people  of  the  Church  to  obey  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom and  other  commandments  of  the  Lord,  I  was  reminded  of  a  signifi- 
cant saying  of  Jesus  recorded  in  the  7th  chapter  of  Matthew.  This 
afternoon  I  wish  to  associate  this  passage  also  with  the  warning  and 
admonition  given  by  President  Clark : 

Therefore  whosoever  heareth  these  sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them, 
I  will  liken  him  unto  a  wise  man,  which  built  his  house  upon  a  rock; 

And  the  rain  descended,  and  the  floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew 
and  beat  upon  that  house;  and  it  fell  not;  for  it  was  founded  upon 
a  rock. 

I  commend  this  passage  of  the  Savior  to  every  Latter-day  Saint, 
and  trust  that  we  may  be  not  forgetful  hearers,  but  doers  of  the  word. 

A  number  of  these  have  come  to  my  mind,  each  of  which  is  worthy 
of  consideration  at  this  conference,  but  none  seems  to  me  to  be  more 
timely  and  of  greater  significance  than  respect  for  law.  Our  twelfth 
Article  of  Faith  says : 

We  believe  in  being  subject  to  kings,  presidents,  rulers,  and  mag- 
istrates, in  obeying,  honoring,  and  sustaining  the  law. 

MORAL  SENSE  BASIS  OF  ALL  SOCIAL  LAW 

Law,  particularly  in  a  democracy,  is  a  system  of  social  order  estab- 
lished and  enforced  by  society. 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Divine  law  has  its  origin  in  Deity ;  social  law  sprang  primarily  from 
the  moral  sense  of  the  community.  In  a  democracy  in  which  the  will  of 
the  people  is  sovereign,  law  is  successfully  operative  only  to  the  extent 
that  the  moral  sense  of  the  community  is  in  sympathy  with  it. 

The  three  significant  words  used  in  the  12th  Article  of  Faith  express 
the  proper  attitude  of  the  membership  of  the  Church  toward  law.  These 
words  are — obey,  honor  and  sustain. 

The  Article  does  not  say  we  believe  in  submission  to  the  law.  Obedi- 
ence implies  a  higher  attitude  than  mere  submission,  for  obedience  has 
its  root  in  good  intent ;  submission  may  spring  from  selfishness  or  mean- 
ness of  spirit.  Though  obedience  and  submission  both  imply  restraint  on 
one's  own  will,  we  are  obedient  only  from  a  sense  of  right ;  submissive 
from  a  sense  of  necessity. 

Honor  expresses  an  act  or  attitude  of  an  inferior  towards  a  superior. 
When  applied  to  things  it  is  taken  in  the  sense  of  holding  in  honor.  Thus, 
in  honoring  the  law,  we  look  upon  it  as  something  which  is  above  selfish 
desires  or  indulgences. 

To  sustain  signifies  to  hold  up ;  to  keep  from  falling.  To  sustain 
the  law,  therefore,  is  to  refrain  from  saying  or  doing  anything  which  will 
weaken  it  or  make  it  ineffective. 

We  obey  law  from  a  sense  of  right. 

We  honor  law  because  of  its  necessity  and  strength  to  society. 
.  We  sustain-law  by  keeping  it  in  good  repute. 

One  of  the  principal  functions  of  religion  is  to  develop  a  sense  of 
confidence  in  man,  and  faith  in  God  as  the  Father  of  men.  If  the  Church 
(of  Jesus  Christ)  cannot  do  these  things,  then  it  will  have  failed  in  ful- 
filling its  divine  destiny.  However  in  efforts  to  establish  confidence  in 
man  and  social  institutions,  we  must  not  shut  from  our  minds  certain  un- 
pleasant facts  which  tend  to  undermine  confidence  and  disintegrate  the 
very  foundation  upon  which  society  is  built. 

DISRESPECT  FOR  LAW  AMONG  WORST  OF  EVILS 

Disrespect  for  law  is  among  the  worst  of  such  evils.  It  is  regrettable 
that  the  United  States  today  has  the  reputation  of  being  one  of  the  most 
lawless  of  nations.  This  unsavory  reputation  is  attributed  largely  to  the 
shattering  during  the  World  War  of  long-cherished  ideals  and  the  lower- 
ing of  moral  standards ;  and  it  is  true  that  "the  war  was  in  every  respect 
a  vast  school  of  demoralization."  Every  rule  of  morality,  public  and 
private,  was  openly  infringed. 

There  are  those  who  blame  Prohibition  for  the  wave  of  lawlessness 
that  has  been  sweeping  over  the  country,  but  since  repeal,  the  illicit 
traffic  in  booze  still  continues  unabated.  Drunkenness  is  increasing,  and 
so  is  the  number  of  intoxicated  drivers  who  imperil  the  lives  of  innocent 
people  on  the  public  highway.  In  the  use  of  tobacco  the  law  is  flagrantly 
violated  and  dishonored. 

Note  the  following :  "Any  person  who  sells,  gives  or  furnishes  any 
cigar,  cigaret  or  tobacco  in  any  form,  or  any  opium  or  other  narcotic  in 
any  form  to  any  person  under  21  years  of  age  is  guilty  of  a  misdemeanor." 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


29 


And  again,  "Any  person  under  the  age  of  21  years  who  buys,  accepts  or 
has  in  his  possession  any  cigar,  cigaret  or  tobacco  in  any  form,  or  any 
opium  or  any  other  narcotic  in  any  form  is  guilty  of  a  misdemeanor  or 
shall  be  deemed  a  delinquent  child  as  the  case  may  be." 

VIOLATIONS  BODE  ILL  FOR  SOCIETY 

It  augurs  ill  for  society  when  in  the  face  of  such  a  law  on  the  statute 
books,  many  high  school  boys  from  15  to  19  years  of  age  indulge  openly 
in  this  pernicious  habit.  That  such  violations  occur  constantly  in  our  own 
community  none  can  deny. 

Petty  thefts,  holdups,  and  robberies  of  various  kinds  and  degrees 
are  all  too  common. 

Illegal  possession  of  corporate  property  is  a  new  menace.  Millions 
of  dollars  are  being  lost  to  laborers,  and  bitter  animosities  engendered  by 
sit-down  strikes,  a  new  weapon  in  the  hands  of  unionism  which  may  prove 
a  boomerang  to  honest  labor.  If  lawlessness  or  even  disregard  for  the 
rights  of  employes  on  the  part  of  employers  is  the  cause  of  sit-down 
strikes,  then  the  menace  of  such  strife  to  the  stability  of  society  is  only 
increased. 

These  things  which  I  have  merely  named  indicate  the  trend  to  dis- 
regard law  and  order.  Of  all  crushing  taxes  that  impede  the  economic 
recovery  of  the  American  people,  the  crime  tax  is  the  greatest.  The  cost 
of  our  crime  has  now  reached  the  staggering  sum  of  13  billion  dollars  a 
year,  an  amount  equal  to  the  entire  revenue  of  the  United  States.  Every 
year  twelve  thousand  persons  are  murdered,  three  thousand  are  kidnaped, 
100,000  are  assaulted,  and  fifty  thousand  are  robbed. 

America  is  a  land  of  boasted  liberty,  but  liberty  may  be  either  help- 
ful or  fatal  according  to  the  use  made  of  it.  Is  it  liberty  when  a  group 
of  men  with  threats  of  violence  prevent  an  employer  from  entering  his 
own  property  ?  No !  Liberty  is  shackled  and  violence  rules !  "Liberty 
is  an  atmosphere  of  the  higher  life,  and  it  is  only  by  a  slow  and  patient 
inward  transformation  that  one  becomes  capable  of  breathing  it." 

MAN  MUST  BE  MADE  WORTHY  OF  LIBERTY 

Liberty  ? — it  is  respect ;  liberty  ? — it  is  obedience  to  the  inner  law ; 
and  this  law  is  neither  the  good  pleasure  of  the  mighty,  nor  the  caprice  of 
the  crowd,  but  the  high  and  impersonal  rule  before  which  those  who 
govern  are  the  first  to  bow  the  head.  Shall  liberty,  then,  be  proscribed  ? 
No ;  but  men  must  be  made  capable  and  worthy  of  it,  otherwise  public 
life  becomes  impossible,  and  the  nation,  undisciplined  and  unrestrained, 
goes  on  through  license  into  the  inextricable  tangles  of  demagoguery." 

Members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  are 
explicitly  enjoined  to  uphold  the  law.  The  Lord  says  in  Section  58  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  "Let  no  man  break  the  laws  of  the  land, 
for  he  that  keepeth  the  laws  of  God  hath  no  need  to  break  the  laws  of  the 
land." 

Reverence.   Akin  to  the  respect  for  law  and  a  contributing  factor 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


toward  it  is  reverence  for  sacred  things.  It  has  been  truly  said  that 
reverence  is  the  noblest  state  in  which  a  man  can  live  in  the  world.  If  that 
is  true,  then  irreverent  man  has  a  crudeness  about  him  that  is  repellant. 
He  is  cynical,  often  sneering,  and  nearly  always,  iconoclastic. 

RESPONSIBILITY  TO  TEACH   CHILDREN  REVERENCE,  OBEDIENCE  TO  LAW 

Reverence  and  obedience  to  law  should  begin  at  home.  Indeed,  too 
much  emphasis  cannot  be  laid  upon  the  responsibility  of  parents  to  teach 
their  children  reverence  for  God  in  all  things  sacred,  and  to  honor  and 
uphold  the  law. 

The  true  expression  of  reverence  is  found  in  the  Saviour's  admoni- 
tion—"Love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  might,  mind  and  strength, 
and  thy  neighbour  as  thyself." 

As  a  Church  in  our  worshiping  assemblies,  we  have  much  room  for 
improvement  in  this  regard.  Stake  officers,  Bishops,  Quorum  Presidents, 
Auxiliary  leaders  should  make  a  special  effort  to  maintain  more  reverence 
during  hours  of  worship.  Children  should  be  impressed  with  the  inap- 
propriateness  of  confusion  and  disorder  in  a  worshiping  assembly,  and 
should  be  made  to  realize  that  it  is  the  height  of  rudeness  to  leave  service 
before  dismissal.  Young  people  who  ignore  such  proprieties  are  two 
hundred  and  fifty  years  behind  the  times.  They  should  have  lived  in 
colonial  days  when  just  to  make  sure  that  they  stayed  out  the  service, 
young  men  were  locked  in  their  pews  by  their  superiors. 

REVERENCE  ON  DECLINE  AMONG  MANY 

Charles  Edward  Jefferson,  the  author  of  "The  Character  of  Jesus," 
says: 

We  are  not  by  nature  or  by  training  a  reverent  people.  There  are  those 
who  say  we  become  less  reverent  as  the  years  go  on.  The  older  people  are 
constantly  lamenting  that  they  miss  a  certain  beautiful  respectfulness,  a 
lovely  reverence  which  were  more  common  many  years  ago.  There  are 
wide  areas  of  American  society  from  which  the  spirit  of  reverence  has  been 
banished.  Men  and  women  in  many  circles  are  clever,  interesting,  brilliant, 
but  they  lack  one  of  the  three  dimensions  of  life — they  have  no  reach  up- 
ward. Their  conversation  sparkles,  but  it  is  frivolous  and  often  flippant. 
Their  talk  is  witty,  but  the  wit  is  often  at  the  expense  of  high  and  sacred 
things. 

He  has  come  far  down  in  the  scale  of  being  who  in  order  to  display 
his  powers  finds  it  necessary  to  ridicule  those  things  which  have  been 
prized  by  all  good  men.  When  one  enters  the  world  of  our  present-day 
reformers  he  is  impressed  by  the  large  number  who  lack  the  upward  look. 
Many  of  these, men  are  tremendously  in  earnest,  they  see  the  crying  evils 
of  the  world;  their  sympathies  are  wide  and  their  zeal  is  hot,  but  they 
have  no  sky  above  their  heads.  They  aim  to  glorify  no  Father  who  is  in 
Heaven.  Some  of  them  claim  to  admire  the  Man  of  Nazareth.  They 
extol  His  character  and  His  teachings.  Yet  strange  to  say,  they  do  not 
imitate  His  reverence,  or  cast  a  single  glance  in  the  direction  in  which 
His  eyes  were  always  looking.  One  finds  this  lack  of  reverence  even  in 
the  Church.  In  every  community  there  are  those  who  treat  the  house 
of  God  as  they  treat  a  street  car,  entering  it  and  leaving  it  when  they 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


31 


please.  Even  habitual  Church  attendants  often  surprise  and  shock  one 
by  their  irreverent  behavior  in  the  house  of  prayer.  Those  persons  are 
not  ignoramuses  or  barbarians ;  they  are  simply  undeveloped  in  the  virtue 
of  reverence.  / 


Why  is  it  that  reverence  is  apparently  in  a  state  of  decadence?  Is 'it 
due  to  our  improper  reading?  The  press  is  constantly  exploiting  the 
sordid  side  of  human  nature,  calling  our  attention  to  moral  collapse  and 
degradation,  and  it  may  be  that  our  familiarity  with  vice  in  its  varied 
forms  is  taking  off  the  edge  of  our  sensibility  so  that  we  no  longer 
respond  readily  to  the  things  which  are  noble  and  high.  What  has  the 
stage  to  do — do  you  think — with  our  loss  of  reverence?  It  is  lamentable 
that  so  large  a  proportion  of  plays  move  in  that  border-land  which  lies 
between  decency  and  indecency.  The  openly  immoral  play  cannot  as 
yet  be  endured,  but  the  play  that  is  most  popular  is  often  a  play  which 
skirts  the  edges  of  the  realms  of  the  indecent.  Theater  audiences  seem 
to  like  a  sentence  now  and  then  which  looks  in  the  direction  of  the  unclean, 
and  to  relish  an  occasional  insinuation  or  remark  which  leads  down  to  the 
mud.  Our  imagination  may  be  so  coarsened  by  the  realism  through 
which  it  travels  as  to  lose  the  capacity  for  feeling  the  rapture  of  the 
sense  of  awe. 


If  a  man  say,  I  love  God,  and  hateth  his  brother,  he  is  a  liar :  for  he 
that  loveth  not  his  brother  whom  he  hath  seen,  how  can  he  love  God  whom 
he  hath  not  seen? 

And  this  commandment  have  we  from  him,  That  he  who  loveth  God 
love  his  brother  also. 

I  speak  of  Reverence  in  connection  with  obedience  to  law  because 
a  reverent  person  is  law-abiding.  No  one  can  love  God  sincerely  and 
harbor  in  his  heart  enmity  for  his  fellow  men.  Enmity  is  sin  and  "who- 
soever committeth  sin  doth  lawlessness ;  for  sin  is  lawlessness." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  time  calls  for  Latter-day  Saints  everywhere 
to  demonstrate  by  deeds  as  well  as  by  words  that  we  love  God,  revere 
sacred  things  and  places,  and  obey,  honor,  and  sustain  the  law.  God 
help  us  in  our  efforts  so  to  do,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Choir  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O,  Say,  What  is 
Truth?" 


I  have  been  enjoying  to  the  fullest  extent  the  fine  meetings  of  this 
General  Conference.  I  bear  witness  that  we  have  listened  to  servants  of 
the  Lord  giving  us  instruction.  They  were  inspired  by  him  who  is  the 
Author  of  our  being.  Unselfish  advice  has  been  offered  to  us  by  those 
whom  the  Lord  has  called  to  teach. 

Conditions  in  the  world  at  the  present  time  are  a  problem  to  me 
because  of  the  diversity  of  interests  that  seem  to  be  operating  every- 


WHAT  LIES  BEHIND  DECADENCE  OF  REVERENCE? 


REVERENT  PEOPLE  LAW-ABIDING 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


Of,  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


where.  Selfishness,  jealousy  and  hatred  have  taken  possession  of  the 
human  family  to  a  remarkable  degree  and  warfare  is  in  the  air. 

HELPED  BY  WISE  COUNSELS 

When  I  was  a  child  I  had  great  satisfaction  in  hearing  those  who 
addressed  us  in  this  building.  As  a  youth  I  used  to  come  quite  regularly 
to  the  Sunday  afternoon  services  held  here  and  listen  to  the  great  choir 
and  organ  and  to  the  instructions  of  the  servants  of  the  Lord.  Most  of 
those  men  have  finished  their  work  and  passed  to  the  other  side,  but 
from  their  wise  counsels  I  received  much  that  has  helped  me  in  my  life  to 
choose  the  better  part,  and  to  obtain  happiness  in  the  companionship  of 
our  Father's  children. 

I  learned  while  young  to  revere  those  who  have  been  called  to  direct 
us  in  this  Church  and  have  continued  so  to  do. 

It  is  only  six  months  ago  that  sitting  here  with  us  was  our  beloved 
brother,  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley.  We  did  not  know  at  that  time  that  he  was 
to  leave  us  so  soon.  One  by  one,  stalwarts  who  have  given  the  best  that 
was  in  their  lives  to  encourage,  uplift  and  bless  us  are  called  home  to  their 
reward.  Others  are  raised  up  to  take  their  places  who  are  willing  to  carry 
on,  and  notwithstanding  the  responsibilities  are  great  and  the  burdens 
heavy,  men  and  women  just  as  fine  as  the  world  has  ever  known  have 
accepted  the  call  to  service  in  this  Church,  and  many  today  are  serving 
unselfishly  for  the  blessings  of  our  Father's  children. 

SCRIPTURE  TEACHINGS  APPROPRIATE  TODAY 

President  Clark  referred  to  the  words  of  Jacob  in  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon.  I  feel  to  repeat  a  portion  of  what  he  read  to  us : 

Now,  my  beloved  brethren,  I,  Jacob,  according  to  the  responsibility 
which  I  am  under  to  God,  to  magnify  mine  office  with  soberness,  that  I 
might  rid  my  garments  of  your  sins,  I  come  up  into  the  temple  this  day, 
that  I  might  declare  unto  you  the  word  of  God. 

I  recommend  that  when  you  go  home  that  you  read  the  second  chap- 
ter of  Jacob,  all  of  it,  for  it  is  full  of  excellent  advice  and  counsel,  and 
if  Jacob  had  been  speaking  today  it  could  have  been  no  more  appropriate. 
He  realized  the  responsibility  of  his.  leadership  among  the  people  and 
had  the  courage  to  counsel  them. 

'We  are  living  in  a  day  when  we  must  choose  for  ourselves  as  did 
one  of  old.  Read  what  this  prophet  said  to  Israel  in  the  24th  chapter  of 
Joshua.  Read  it  all.  It  is  excellent  advice  to  us  today.  In  warning  the 
people  Joshua  said,  "Choose  you  this  day  whom  ye  will  serve,  *  *  *  but 
as  for  me  and  my  house,  we  will  serve  the  Lord." 

THE  PURPOSE  OF  CONFERENCES 

As  I  look  into  the  faces  of  this  great  congregation  of  wonderful 
men  and  women  and  listen  to  the  tuneful  voices  of  these  sons  and 
daughters  of  the  living  God,  and  realize  that  we  are  all  here  in  the  house 
of  the  Lord  to  worship  and  to  be  instructed,  not  by  man  only  but  by 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


33 


the  inspiration  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  who  is 'the  Author  of  our  being, 
my  soul  is  refreshed. 

If  we  have  come  in  the  spirit  of  repentance  and  humility,  we  have 
a  right  to  receive  instruction  that  is  necessary  for  our  development.  If 
we  have  come  to  worship  with  the  prayer  in  our  hearts,  "Father  in 
Heaven,  teach  us,"  we  are  entitled  to  receive  the  promise  that  he  has  made 
that  "Where  two  or  three  are  gathered  together  in  my  name,  there  am  I 
in  the  midst  of  them." 

We  are  here,  not  two  or  three,  but  a  great  multitude,  privileged 
as  are  few  of  our  Father's  children  in  the  world.  We  are  living  not  only 
in  the  day  in  which  he  has  spoken,  but  we  are  offered  the  opportunity  to 
listen  to  the  voices  of  men  who  receive  his  inspiration  when  they  teach  us. 
If  therefore  we  fall  into  by  and  forbidden  paths  we  will  not  be  able 
to  blame  anybody  but  ourselves,  because  if  we  are  teachable,  if  we  are 
humble,  if  we  are  willing  to  do  what  the  Lord  would  have  us  do,  we  have 
the  information  at  hand,  not  only  in  the  records  that  have  been  handed 
down  to  us  by  those  who  have  given  their  lives  that  we  might  have  the 
truth,  but  we  also  have  the  privilege  of  listening  to  the  voices  of  living 
oracles  who  are  as  unselfish  and  faithful  as  those  that  we  revere  because 
of  the  records  that  they  have  left  behind. 

The  adversary  is  not  asleep.  He  is  deceiving  many  and  leading  them 
to  sin.  Reference  has  been  made  to  the  fact  that  in  our  own  community 
there  are  those  who  fail  to  appreciate  their  privileges.  There  are  some 
who  are  teaching  false  doctrine ;  and  some  who  are  seeking  to  persuade 
men  and  women  to  violate  the  commandments  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 
There  are  those  who  pretend  to  be  inspired  and  who  would  take  the 
leadership  of  the  people,  if  they  were  so  permitted.  Of  course  they  are 
not  capable  to  lead  and  in  their  own  lives  are  living  improperly,  and  the 
adversary  is  using  them  as  tools  by  which  others  may  be  deceived. 

THE  PATH  OF  SAFETY 

There  is  only  one  pathway  of  safety  for  me  in  this  day  and  that 
is  to  follow  those  whom  the  Lord  has  appointed  to  lead.  I  may  have  my 
own  ideas  and  opinions,  I  may  set  up  my  own  judgment  with  reference 
to  things,  but  I  know  that  when  my  judgment  conflicts  with  the  teachings 
of  those  that  the  Lord  has  given  to  us  to  point  the  way,  I  should  change 
my  course.  If  I  desire  salvation  I  will  follow  the  leaders  that  our 
Heavenly  Father  has  given  to  us,  as  long  as  he  sustains  them. 

If  the  members  of  this  Church  who  find  fault  with  the  leaders  of 
the  Church  and  criticise  those  who  are  giving  their  very  lives  to  bless 
and  benefit  us  would  only  pause  long  enough  to  ask  prayerfully,  "Which 
of  these  teachers  is  it  safe  to  follow  ?"  they  would  have  no  difficulty  in 
finding  their  right  course  and  would  sustain  those  whom  the  Lord 
sustains. 

We  are  living  in  a  day  when  we  need  humility,  when  we  need 
charity,  when  we  need  patience,  and  we  are  living  in  a  time  when  it  is 
the  privilege  of  every  man  and  every  woman  to  do  great  good  by  setting 
righteous  examples. 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  feel  sad  sometimes  when  I  hear  the  unkind  things  that  are  spoken, 
not  only  of  people  in  our  Church,  but  of  people  in  the  world.  Unkind 
things  are  not  usually  said  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord.  The  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  is  a  spirit  of  kindness ;  it  is  a  spirit  of  patience ;  it  is  a  spirit  of 
charity  and  love  and  forbearance  and  long  suffering ;  and  there  are  none 
of  us  who  do  not  need  all  these  virtues  that  are  the  result  of  the  pos- 
session of  the  Spirit  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

KINDNESS  TOWARDS  THOSE  WHO  ERR 

There  are  those  who  will  make  mistakes.  There  are  those  among 
us  today  that  have  gone  astray,  but  they  are  the  children  of  our  Lord 
and  he  loves  them.  He  has  given  to  you  and  to  me  the  right  to  go  to 
them  in  kindness  and  love  and  with  patience  and  with  a  desire  to  bless, 
seek  to  win  them  from  the  mistakes  that  they  are  making.  It  is  not  my 
privilege  to  judge  some  of  these  that  have  made  mistakes  and  are  still 
making  mistakes,  unless  I  am  so  called  by  reason  of  the  authority  that 
may  be  conferred  upon  me.  But  it  is  my  privilege,  if  I  see  them  doing 
the  wrong  thing,  to  in  some  way,  if  possible,  turn  them  back  into  the 
pathway  that  leads  to  eternal  life  in  the  Celestial  kingdom. 

The  Presidency  of  the  Church  have  counseled  us  today.  They  are 
the  representatives  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  not  only  to  this  people, 
but  they  represent  him  to  all  the  people  of  the  earth.  We  would  do  well 
if  we  would  magnify  and  honor  these  men  he  has  placed  at  our  head. 
They  are  men  with  human  frailties,  they  will  make  mistakes,  but  if  we 
will  be  as  charitable  to  the  mistakes  that  they  make  as  we  are  to  our  own 
failures  and  mistakes,  we  will  see  their  virtues  as  we  see  our  own. 

UNKIND  CRITICISM  UNBECOMING  IN  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

I  stand  here  to  plead  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  not  to 
permit  words  of  criticism  or  of  unkindness  to  pass  your  lips  about  those 
whom  the  Lord  has  called  to  lead  us.  Do  not  be  found  in  the  companion- 
ship of  those  who  would  belittle  them  or  weaken  their  influence  among 
the  children  of  men.  If  you  do,  I  can  say  to  you  that  you  will  find  your- 
selves in  the  power  of  the  adversary.  You  will  be  influenced  by  him 
to  go  as  far  as  possible  from  the  pathway  of  truth,  and  if  you  do  not 
repent  you  may  find  when  it  is  too  late  that  you  have  lost  the  "pearl 
of  great  price."  Because  of  your  selfishness  and  your  blindness  you 
will  have  been  led  away,  and  your  loved  ones  who  have  given  their  very 
lives  in  order  that  you  might  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  will  be  sorrowing  on  the  other  side  of  the  veil  because  of  your 
weakness  and  your  folly. 

You  know  we  are  all  tied  together  by  the  great  work  that  is  being 
done  in  the  temples  of  our  Father,  where  families  that  have  not  been 
united  before  are  brought  together  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Priesthood. 
The  Lord  intended  that  every  one  of  his  sons  and  daughters  should  have 
the  opportunity  to  be  blessed,  not  only  here  upon  the  earth,  but  to  enjoy 
eternal  blessings. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


35 


Think  of  the  devotion  and  the  faithfulness  of  those  who  day  after 
day  go  into  these  temples  and  officiate  for  those  who  have  passed  to  the 
other  side,  and  know  this  that  those  who  are  on  the  other  side  are  just 
as  anxious  about  us.  They  are  praying  for  us  and  for  our  success.  They 
are  pleading,  in  their  own  way,  for  their  descendants,  for  their  posterity 
who  live  upon  the  earth,  many  of  whom,  because  they  have  been  unwise, 
have  been  betrayed  into  fighting  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God  and 
opposing  those  who  are  its  leaders. 

INFLUENCE  OF  HOME 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  plead  with  you  that  when  you  return  to 
your  home  you  see  to  it  that  your  children  are  properly  taught.  Only 
a  few  days  ago  I  saw  a  letter  from  a  man  who  had  probably  lived  half  his 
life.  In  writing  to  his  father  he  said:  "Your  consideration  for  your 
loved  ones,  your  teaching  of  me,  the  examples  that  you  set  me,  have  been 
an  inspiration  for  me  to  do  what  the  Lord  would  have  me  do.  I  have  felt 
in  following  in  your  footsteps  I  would  be  safe."  That  was  a  wise  father, 
that  was  a  blessed  father,  who  could  plant  in  the  mind  of  his  son  such 
confidence.  The  son  has  lived  much  in  the  world,  but  because  of  the 
conduct  of  the  father — at  least  he  gave  his  father  credit  in  his  letter — 
because  of  the  example  set  in  his  home,  he  is  today  one  of  the  stalwarts 
of  this  Church.  He  can  live  in  the  world  and  keep  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord.  His  anxiety  to  do  good  was  inspired  by  the  home  in  which 
he  lived.  He  did  not  discover  selfishness  in  the  home,  but  unselfishness. 
The  parents  were  not  anxious  to  get  all  that  they  could  and  hold  it 
selfishly  for  their  own,  but  they  went  about  seeking  those  who  needed 
them,  encouraging  and  blessing  them.  All  the  talking  in  the  world  would 
not  have  put  into  that  man's  heart  that  which  he  has  today,  but  it  was  the 
example  that  was  set  by  his  parents,  by  those  who  lived  in  the  home  in 
which  he  lived. 

I  have  no  doubt  there  are  hundreds  of  men  and  women,  thousands 
of  them,  perhaps,  in  the  communities  in  which  we  live  and  in  the  world, 
who  would  say  the  same  thing  of  the  teachings  of  their  fathers  and  their 
mothers.  But  I  fear  there  are  some  of  us  who  are  influenced  by  the 
customs  of  the  world  and  are  obsessed  with  the  idea  that  we  have  to 
follow  the  crowd  regardless  of  what  they  believe  or  do.  In  that  case  our 
example  will  not  be  a  blessing  but  may  destroy  the  happiness  of  our 
children. 

Permit  me  to  direct  your  attention  to  chapter  8  of  1st  Nephi  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon  wherein  the  Lord  showed  to  Lehi  in  a  dream  or  vision 
the  condition  of  the  people  of  the  world  and  the  influences  that  did  and 
would  exist  among  them.  A  few  would  seek  righteousness  but  the  mul- 
titude would  seek  pleasure  and  unrighteousness.  He  saw  an  iron  rod 
along  a  path  that  could  be  followed  that  would  lead  those  who  held  to  it 
into  a  place  of  safety  and  happiness.  Those  who  held  on  to  the  iron  rod — 
and  they  were  the  minority — found  the  tree  of  life.  The  majority  went 
into  a  large  and  spacious  building  that  was  shown  to  Lehi  as  the  abiding 
place  of  those  who  did  not  understand  or  would  not  receive  the  truth. 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


They  failed  to  gain  an  inheritance  of  celestial  glory.  Lehi  was  desirous 
that  his  family  should  hold  to  the  rod  and  join  him  at  the  tree  of  life, 
but  he  was  shown  that  there  were  those  in  his  own  household  that  would 
not  do  so.  Are  we  living  such  lives  that  those  who  follow  our  example 
will  find  the  tree  of  life? 

SAFETY  IN  LIVING  THE  GOSPEL 

God  has  spoken.  The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord,  is  upon  the 
earth,  with  power  and  authority.  We  live  in  the  evening  of  the  fulness 
of  times.  The  world  will  soon  be  devastated  with  war  and  carnage, 
with  plague  and  all  the  distresses  that  the  Lord  has  promised  unless  they 
repent ;  but  he  has  indicated  that  they  will  not  repent,  and  distress  must 
come. 

You,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  have  been  called  out  of  the  world. 
Opportunity  has  been  offered  to  you  to  understand  what  we  may  expect 
and  what  we  will  receive  if  we  are  faithful  and  labor  in  kindness  and  love. 
Under  the  leadership  of  the  best  men  and  the  best  women  that  have  lived 
upon  the  earth,  Zion's  sons  and  daughters  are  going  forward,  and  if  we 
will  follow  the  advice  and  counsel  that  the  Lord  has  given,  our  pathway 
will  be  one  of  happiness.  It  will  be  a  pathway,  perhaps  not  of  ease  and 
comfort  always,  but  in  the  end  it  will  terminate  in  the  presence  of  our 
Heavenly  Father,  and  glory,  immortality  and  eternal  lives  will  be  our 
portion. 

Is  it  .worth  the  effort  ?  Shall  we  close  our  eyes  and  in  carelessness 
and  indifference  follow  the  crowd,  or  shall  we  hold  to  the  iron  rod,  looking 
forward  and  upward,  determined  that  we  will  earn  the  better  part,  and 
in  the  end  receive  the  welcome  of  our  Father,  Well  done,  my  good  and 
faithful  son,  my  good  and  faithful  daughter ;  enter  into  your  rest  ? 

I  am  grateful  for  my  membership  in  this  Church  and  am  thankful 
for  all  the  blessings  that  are  mine.  I  appreciate  the  brethren  with  whom 
I  associate,  and  am  thankful  for  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  with 
whom  I  mingle  in  the  Church,  for  your  fine  fellowship  and  for  the 
wonderful  kindness  that  you  manifest  as  we  minister  among  you. 

SET  HOMES  IN  ORDER 

I  pray  that  you  may  have  wisdom  to  set  your  own  homes  in  order 
today,  not  delaying.  Set  them  in  order  while  there  is  yet  time.  Call 
your  families  about  you,  and  if  you  have  failed  in  the  past  to  give  them 
an  understanding  of  the  purposes  of  life  and  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel 
of  our  Lord,  do  it  now,  for  I  say  to  you  as  a  servant  of  the  Lord,  they 
need  it  now  and  they  will  need  it  from  now  on. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  help  us,  that  he  will  give  us  patience  and  love 
for  our  fellows,  that  we  may  be  worthy  of  the  high  calling  that  has  come 
to  us  as  his  servants,  holding  his  Holy  Priesthood,  or  as  his  daughters, 
blessed  with  knowledge  such  as  women  in  the  world  do  not  possess.  That 
we  may  be  worthy  of  his  continued  favor  and  love  one  another,  as  he  has 
commanded  us  to  do,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


37 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

We  are  living  in  a  rapidly  changing  world.  The  old  is  giving  way 
to  the  new.  We  have  new  thoughts  and  feelings,  new  ways  of  doing 
and  living.  So  rapid  are  the  changes  that  many  of  us  are  more  or  less 
dazed  and  in  danger  of  being  swept  off  our  feet.  In  a  sense  there  is  a 
confusion  of  tongues — certainly  a  confusion  of  plans,  teachings,  reme- 
dies, panaceas  and  whatnots.  Some  people  are  beginning  to  lose  their 
anchorage  and  drift  out  into  tempestuous  seas  without  chart  or  rudder. 
In  thus  speaking  I  have  in  mind  tendencies  of  the  times,  exhibited  by 
many  people.  To  what  extent  our  people  are  affected  by  these  things 
I  do  not  know.  I  would  like  to  believe  that  all  of  us  deeply  cherish  our 
heritage  of  truth  and  stand  immovable  for  the  fundamental  principles 
and  doctrines  that  have  characterized  our  Church  from  the  beginning. 

TIME  CANNOT  CHANGE  FUNDAMENTALS 

Fourteen  months  ago  I  was  asked  by  a  very  intelligent  lady  in 
London  what  the  characteristic  doctrines  of  Mormonism  are.  I  recited 
some  of  the  Articles  of  Faith.  Her  reply  was  that  most  of  these  could 
not  be  characteristic  for  she  knew  non-Mormons  who  believed  many, 
if  not  all,  of  these  Articles,  though,  she  admitted,  there  might  be  some 
differences  in  detail.  I  answered  we  certainly  have  some  major  char- 
acteristic beliefs.  What  are  they,  do  you  say?  They  constitute  the 
chief  features  of  our  message  to  the  world.  And  however  rapid  the 
changes  of  the  times  in  this  or  in  future  generations  these  major  char- 
acteristics will  always  remain  fundamentals  in  our  religious  faith.  Time 
cannot  change  or  efface  them.   What  are  some  of  these  ? 

THE  FIRST  VISION  A  REALITY 

The  first  one  that  I  shall  name  is  a  belief  in  the  divinity  of  Joseph 
Smith's  call  to  set  up  Christ's  authorized  Church  in  this  dispensation. 
We  believe  in  the  reality  of  his  first  great  vision,  wherein  he  saw  the 
Father  and  the  Son,  heard  their  voices,  and  received  messages  from 
them.  In  this  miraculous  vision  he  learned  that  these  two  heavenly 
Beings  are  separate  and  distinct  personalities  in  whose  form  man  is  made, 
thus  confirming  the  teaching  of  Genesis  that  God  created  man  in  his 
own  image. 

From  that  moment  Joseph's  ideas  relative  to  the  persons  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son  were  correct  and  definite,  and  he  taught  them  with 
convincing  certainty,  thus  restoring  to  the  world  long  lost  precious 
truths.  Their  persons  are  limited  in  form  to  the  bodies  they  occupy  and 
are  not  diffused  as  an  essence  or  shapeless  entities  throughout  the  im- 
mensity of  space.  They  are  real,  living,  glorified  Personages.  They 
had  actually  answered  his  earnest  but  simple  prayer.  He  knew  that  they 
lived,  for  he  had  both  seen  and  heard  them.  This  definite  knowledge  of 
the  personality  of  God  had  been  lost  to  the  world  and  with  it  a  solid 
basis  upon  which  faith  could  be  built. 


38    GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

RESURRECTED  BEINGS  APPEAR 

But  further  exceedingly  important  knowledge  was  later  given  to 
the  Prophet.  The  Angel  Moroni  appeared  to  him.  Who  was  Moroni  ? 
A  tangible,  resurrected  personage  who  had  lived  upon  the  American 
continent  about  fourteen  hundred  years  before.  Moroni  could  be  resur- 
rected because  Christ  had  previously  been  resurrected,  breaking  the  bonds 
of  death  and  thus  achieving  a  victory  over  the  grave  not  only  for  himself 
but  for  all  the  human  family.  The  reality  "of  a  bodily  resurrection  is  a 
fact  which  became  known  to  the  youthful  Prophet. 

This  knowledge  was  made  doubly  certain  when  the  resurrected  John 
the  Baptist  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  May  15, 
1829,  and  ordained  them  to  the  Aaronic  priesthood.  Both  of  these 
young  men  thus  learned  that  tangible,  resurrected  beings  live  in  the 
heavens. 

The  Baptist  came  as  a  messenger  from  God  in  answer  to  fervent 
prayer.  Knowledge  is  obtained  by  various  means,  one  of  which  is  by 
the  exercise  of  faith  resulting  "in  divine  revelation.  So  the  Prophet 
Joseph  became  wiser  than  all  the  learned  divines  of  his  day,  getting 
abundant  absolute  knowledge  from  God  through  the  visitations  of  several 
heavenly  personages,  including  the  Father  and  the  Son,  and  also  through 
numerous  revelations.  His  knowledge  was  pure  truth,  for  he  was  taught 
from  on  high.    His  teachings  were  therefore  free  from  false  notions. 

AUTHORITY  RESTORED 

Upon  him  and  Oliver  was  bestowed  the  holy  Priesthood  through  the 
laying  on  of  hands  of  qualified  personages  sent  from  the  throne  of 
God.  Thus  the  authority  to  act  for  and  in  the  name  of  Christ  was  again 
restored  to  the  earth  and  the  Prophet  was  commissioned  to  set  up  Christ's 
own  Church.  He  energetically  went  about  doing  this  work.  Now  while 
there  had  been  teachers  and  reformers  before  Joseph's  day  who  were 
doubtless  more  or  less  inspired,  getting  glimpses  of  gospel  truths,  none  of 
them  had  received  the  Priesthood.  Hence  while  their  work  and  sacrifices 
were  necessary  to  establish  religious  tolerance  sufficient  for  the  coming 
of  the  Prophet,  none  of  them  could  organize  Christ's  Church,  due  to  a 
lack  of  authority.  This  is  a  vital  point  and  one  on  which  we  cannot 
compromise. 

We  are  willing  to  bless  any  non-Mormon  man  or  organization  for 
the  good  he  or  it  may  do.  But  this  must  not  imply  that  we  are  ready 
to  grant  that  what  is  done  by  any  others,  however  great  the  good,  is  ac- 
complished in  the  authority  of  the  Priesthood.  In  fact  we  hold  otherwise. 
Priesthood  is  a  characteristic  of  Christ's  Church  and  of  none  other. 

THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON  A  PHYSICAL  EVIDENCE 

Another  outstanding  characteristic  of  our  Faith  is  a  belief  in  the 
divine  authenticity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I  have  many  times  said  this 
book  is  perhaps  the  best  physical  evidence  we  can  offer  to  the  world  of 
the  divinity  of  the  Prophet's  call.    With  us  this  sacred  volume  is  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


39 


most  remarkable  book  in  print  today.  It  came  forth  through  the  miracu- 
lous manifestation  of  God's  power.  This  claim  is  made  for  no  other 
book  in  the  English  language.  And  though  the  Book  of  Mormon  has 
been  ridiculed  and  various  hypotheses  advanced  to  explain  it,  none  of 
these  has  stood  the  test  of  investigation,  hence  has  gone  into  discard.  The 
truth  is  the  Book  perhaps  stands  more  unimpeachable  today  than  it  has 
ever  stood  before.  Further,  countless  thousands  who  have  read  the  Book 
in  the  way  suggested  in  the  10th  chapter  of  Moroni  have  solemnly  testified 
that  they  know  the  Book  is  of  divine  origin.  God  revealed  this  truth  to 
them.  There  was  no  other  way  for  them  to  get  a  testimony  of  its 
divinity. 

FAITH  A  GIFT 

The  truth  of  this  sacred  Book  is  another  fact  that  admits  of  no 
compromise.  Yet  we  do  not  quarrel  with  honest  doubters  who  do  not 
believe  in  the  divinity  of  this  Book.  But  we  are  sorry  for  their  unbelief, 
recognizing  that  faith  is  a  gift  of  God,  withheld  from  everyone  who  does 
not  fulfil  the  conditions  necessary  to  have  faith.  The  Prophet  Joseph  tells 
us  in  section  130,  Doctrine  and  Covenants :  "There  is  a  law  irrevocably 
decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foundations  of  this  world,  upon  which  all 
blessings  are  predicated.  And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God 
it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law  upon  which  it  is  predicated."  This  states 
a  great  law  that  applies  not  only  to  the  spiritual  world  but  to  the  material 
world  as  well.  Should  we  not  be  very  grateful  to  our  Father  that  he 
has  given  us  faith  to  believe?  Not  boastfully  but  very  humbly  and  in 
deep  gratitude  we  accept  the  gift  of  faith  as  a  special  favor  of  the  God 
we  worship. 

GOPSEL,  TEACHES  UNIVERSAL  SALVATION 

Another  very  important  and  highly  distinguishing  feature  of 
Mormonism  is  the  doctrine  of  the  universality  of  the  plan  of  salvation — 
of  the  saving  and  redeeming  power  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  fact  that  the 
doctrine  of  salvation  for  the  dead  is  a  part  of  Mormonism  is  a  powerful 
evidence  that  Joseph  Smith  was  called  of  God  and  commissioned  to  re- 
store to  earth  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  its  plainness  and  fulness. 
Among  all  the  scholars  and  teachers  of  religion  in  this  and  past  genera- 
tions, where  can  you  find  outside  of  this  Church  any  one  who  understood 
or  understands  the  significance  of  the  Apostle  Paul's  question,  "Else 
what  shall  they  do  which  are  baptized  for  the  dead,  if  the  dead  rise  not 
at  all"?  Or,  of  Peter's  statement,  "For  this  cause  was  the  gospel 
preached  also  to  them  that  are  dead,  that  they  might  be  judged  according 
to  men  in  the  flesh,  but  live  according  to  God  in  the  spirit." 

During  the  winter  of  1935-36  there  was  a  series  of  weekly  addresses 
on  religion  delivered  in  London  over  the  radio.  Most  of  the  addresses 
were  printed  in  the  Listener,  a  weekly  magazine  published  by  the  British 
Broadcasting  Corporation.  The  magazine  printed  letters  in  its  forum  col- 
umns commenting  on  the  addresses.  Many  of  the  letters  declared  Chris- 
tianity, as  the  reverend  doctors  taught  it,  could  not  be  true  for  it  pictured 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


God  as  wholly  unjust  and  unfair.  To  be  saved,  a  confession  of  Christ  in 
this  life  was  necessary,  the  preachers  taught.  Yet  the  vast  majority  of  the 
human  family  now  dead,  and  many  millions  of  people  now  living  had 
never  even  heard  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Why,  the  writers  asked, 
should  all  of  these  be  damned  through  no  fault  of  their  own  ?  Can  there 
be  a  loving  and  just  God  who  would  do  a  thing  so  manifestly  unfair  and 
monstrous  as  this  ?   No !  the  letter  writers  said.  . 

But  the  glorious  doctrine  of  salvation  for  the  dead  makes  every- 
thing clear.  It  reveals  God's  all-comprehending  love  for  his  children, 
and  shows  him  to  be  a  wise,  just  and  merciful  Father.  But  the  Christian 
ministry  knew  nothing  of  this  beautiful  doctrine.  Where  did  Joseph 
Smith  iearn  it?  From  his  divine  teachers  and  the  revelations  of  God. 
There  was  no  other  source  from  which  he  could  have  learned  it.  Of  this 
wonderful  doctrine  he  knew  more  than  the  rest  of  all  the  world  combined. 
Was  he  a  prophet  of  God?  Who  can  make  an  open-minded,  thorough 
study  of  the  character  and  teachings  of  the  Prophet  and  deny  his  divine 
inspiration? 

God  is  the  Father  of  the  spirits  of  all  men.  Not  one  of  them  will 
be  denied  the  privilege  of  accepting  of  their  Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  Every 
one  born  into  mortality  will  have  a  chance  to  hear  the  Gospel  in  this 
life  or  in  the  life  to  come — in  the  spirit  world  beyond  the  grave.  Death  is 
only  a  separation  of  the  spirit  and  the  body.  The  latter  returns  to  dust 
and  the  former  to  the  spirit  world  to  await  the  time  when  it  will  reunite 
with  the  body,  for  the  resurrection  will  be  universal  and  will  eventually 
come  to  every  one  born  into  mortality — unto  both  the  just  and  the  unjust. 
Not  one  will  be  denied.    How  beautiful  and  marvelous  the  plan! 

ACTIVITY  IN  THE  SPIRIT  WORLD 

In  the  spirit  world  there  is  great  activity.  The  Elders  of  this  Church 
who  have  gone  thither  are  very  busy  preaching  to  those  who  once  lived 
in  mortality.  Even  during  the  brief  period  when  the  body  of  Jesus  lay 
in  the  tomb  the  Master  was  not  idle.  "Today,"  he  said  to  the  thief  dying 
nearby  on  a  cross,  "shalt  thou  be  with  me  in  paradise" — a  place  in  the 
spirit  world,  but  not  heaven  as  we  commonly  understand  the  term.  The 
Apostle  Peter  gives  us  light  on  this  point  when  he  wrote  of  Christ's 
whereabouts  while  his  body  lay  in  the  tomb  :  "He  went  and  preached  unto 
the  spirits  in  prison ;  which  sometime  were  disobedient,  when  once  the 
long  suffering  of  God  waited  in  the  days  of  Noah,  while  the  ark  was  a 
preparing,  wherein  few,  that  is,  eight  souls  were  saved  by  water." 

Is  it  not  probable  that  very  many  more  of  God's  children  are  today 
hearing  and  accepting  the  Gospel  in  the  spirit  world  than  they  are  doing 
here  on  earth?  During  the  year  1935  ten  thousand  names  were  sent  to 
our  temples  from  Germany  for  ordinance  work.  And  all  our  temples  are 
busily  engaged  in  doing  vicarious  work  for  the  dead.  This  work  will 
continue  with  an  ever-increasing  rate.  More  and  more  temples  will  be 
built  and  will  be  kept  fully  employed.  The  great  doctrine  of  salvation 
for  the  dead  is  one  of  the  most  outstanding  and  characteristic  of  Mormon- 
ism  and  helps  to  stamp  Joseph  Smith  as  the  greatest  prophet  who  ever 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


41 


lived  on  earth,  excepting  only  Jesus  Christ  himself.  Will  the  world  not 
yet  say  there  is  no  exaggeration  in  this  statement  ?  Very  likely.  For  the 
world,  at  the  moment  indifferent  to  any  religious  propaganda,  will  show 
an  increasing  interest  in  the  message  of  Mormonism.  This  is  not  said 
in  boasting.    It  is  only  an  indication  of  what  will  surely  come. 

THE  LAST  DISPENSATION 

i 

Now,  among  other  things  the  Prophet  Joseph  taught  was  that  he 
inaugurated  the  last  dispensation,  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of 
times ;  that  God  had  set  up  his  Church  for  the  last  time ;  that  it  would 
not  be  taken  away  or  given  to  another  people.  These  ideas,  like  salvation 
for  the  dead  and  many  others,  were  not  Joseph's.  They  did  not  origi- 
nate with  him.  They  came  through  messengers  and  revelations  from 
heaven ;  and  therein  lies  their  vast  implications. 

INSPIRATION  CONTINUES  WITH  LEADERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  Prophet  and  his  brother,  the  Patriarch,  were  martyred.  Their 
enemies  hoped  and  believed  that  the  Church  would  fall  with  its  leaders. 
How  greatly  they  were  disappointed.  They  had  forgotten  that  new 
strength  to  a  religious  cause  always  springs  from  the  blood  of  its  martyrs. 
Brigham  Young,  the  rightful  successor  to  Joseph,  became  the  new  prophet 
and  leader.  The  Church  was  not  born  to  die.  God  had  so  spoken.  It 
should  continue  and  grow  until  it  filled  the  whole  earth.  The  mantle 
of  Joseph  had  fallen  upon  Brigham  and  in  turn  successively  upon  John 
Taylor,  Wilf ord  Woodruff,  Lorenzo  Snow,  Joseph  F.  Smith  and  Heber 
J.  Grant,  where  it  now  rests.  In  his  turn  each  of  these  was  sustained 
by  Jesus  Christ  and  the  faithful  members  of  his  Church  as  prophet,  seer 
and  revelator  and  as  president  of  the  Church.  Faithfully  and  to  the 
very  best  of  all  his  strength  each  of  these  brethren  has  served  in  the 
position  to  which  God  and  the  Church  membership  called  him.  The  single 
purpose  of  each  one  has  been  to  guide  the  Church  as  Christ  directs 
through  inspiration  and  to  function  for  the  good  of  the  people.  President 
Grant  is  faithful  and  loyal  to  this  purpose.  Can  any  faithful  member 
of  the  Church  point  to  one  single  thing  that  President  Grant  has  said  or 
done  that  is  not  in  harmony  with  this  lofty  purpose? 

A  WARNING  OF  DANGERS  AHEAD 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  times  through  which  we  have  been  passing 
have  indeed  been  trying  to  most  of  our  people.  And  I  am  sorry  that 
trying  times  are  still  ahead.  The  sure  word  of  prophecy  and  the  signs 
of  the  times  do  not  permit  me  to  believe  otherwise.  We  shall  not  have 
the  peace  and  security  we  so  greatly  desire  until  we  repent  of  our  sins, 
turn  to  the  Lord  in  real  sincerity,  and  deal  righteously  with  all  men  in 
all  our  relations  with  them. 

In  conclusion  I  want  to  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  many  winds  of 
doctrine — social,  economic,  political — are  blowing  among  the  people.  In- 
dividuals, ambitious  for  position  and  power,  employing  all  kinds  of  propa- 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ganda,  are  and  will  continue  to  be  busy  among  the  people  to  win  their 
support.  Such  things  are  not  new.  They  have  long  existed  and  have 
been  particularly  prominent  in  periods  of  great  distress  and  chaos.  And 
they  are  especially  dangerous  in  countries  ruled  by  democratic  forms  of 
government.  The  dictatorships  of  Europe  were  born  of  the  distresses 
of  the  people.  Orderly  government  in  these  countries  was  secured  at 
the  price  of  individual  liberty.  There  the  state  is  everything,  the  individ- 
ual only  the  tiniest  cog  in  a  gigantic  machine. 

Dangers  ominously  threaten  in  this  great  country  of  ours.  Our 
government  had  one  great  test — the  Civil  War  of  the  sixties.  It  will 
have  other  tests.  But  it  will  triumph  so  long  as  the  people  remain  true 
to  their  heritage  and  maintain  the  ideals  of  liberty  and  justice  set  up  by 
the  fathers  of  our  country. 

DIVINE  GUIDANCE  NECESSARY 

What  would  I  have  the  Latter-day  Saints  do?  Just  this:  Remain 
calm ;  do  not  be  carried  away  by  prejudiced  and  emotional  appeals.  Use 
your  intelligence  and  try  to  be  wise  in  all,  things.  Carefully  and  prayer- 
fully consider  and  study  every  new  proposition.  Look  for  the  real 
motives  behind  propaganda  and  agitators.  Make  yourselves  worthy  of 
and  seek  for  divine  guidance  in  all  of  your  affairs.  Keep  your  eyes 
upon  God's  prophet,  the  head  of  the  Church,  and  be  faithful  and  true 
to  the  covenants  you  have  made  with  one  another  and  with  God.  There 
is  safety  in  doing  these  things.  May  the  Lord  give  all  of  us  wisdom 
and  strength  to  do  them,  I  pray  in  Christ's  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 

President  of  the  Logan  Temple 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  grateful  beyond  my  power  to  express 
for  the  privilege  that  is  mine  in  standing  before  you  to  bear  my  testimony 
to  the  divinity  of  this  great  and  mighty  work.  I  appreciate  the  things 
that  have  been  said  to  us  by  the  Presidency  of  our  Church  and  those  who 
have  spoken  to  us  during  this  Conference.  There  is  absolutely  no  ques- 
tion as  to  the  truth  that  has  been  presented  to  us  here  this  day. 

I  believe  with  all  my  soul  that  if  you  and  I  can  follow  the  instructions 
that  have  been  given  to  us,  we  will  come  nearer  to  our  Heavenly,  Father. 

I  believe  also  that  if  we  pray  more  earnestly  day  by  day,  we  will 
receive  the  spirit  of  light,  and  of  wisdom,  and  also  that  sustaining  power 
to  uphold  and  support  those  who  have  been  placed  in  authority  to  lead 
and  direct  the  affairs  of  the  Church  in  this  day  and  time. 

I  believe  with  all  my  soul  in  that  quality  of  prayer  that  brings  us 
in  close  contact  with  our  Heavenly  Father.  May  I  say  there  is  a  believing 
faith;  there  is  also  a  knowing  faith.  Perhaps  we  should  differentiate 
between  the  two.  This  knowing  faith  comes  to, us  through  our  devotion 
to  God  our  Eternal  Father  as  we  approach  him,  not  only  in  our  family 
prayers,  but  in  the  silent  hours  of  life  when  we  come  to  him  alone,  when 
we  unfold  what  is  in  our  hearts  and  invite  him  into  our  confidence,  and 


ELDER  JOSEPH'QUINNEY,  JR. 


43 


have  him  know  and  understand  that  we  love  his  work  and  those  who 
have  been  called  to  preside  over  us. 

The  quality  of  prayer  that  is  most  useful  to  any  of  us  is  that  quality 
that  develops  the  finest  there  is  in  human  life,  that  brings  us  into  fellow- 
ship with  God  and  our  f  ellowman,  that  develops  within  us  that  absolute 
faith  that  is  so  necessary  in  order  to  retain  and  obtain  the  light  of  truth, 
which  of  course  is  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel. 

Any  one  who  is  earnest  and  sincere  in  his  or  her  prayers  cannot  in 
any  way  mistake  the  meaning  of  what  was  said  to  us  by  our  beloved 
President  this  morning,  when  he  impressed  us  with  the  thought  that  if 
we  observe  and  keep  these  commandments  that  God  has  given  us  by  the 
revelations  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  we 
will  retain  our  fellowship  and  our  knowing  faith,  that  faith  that  gives 
us  the  absolute  assurance  that  this  is  indeed  God's  work.  President 
Grant,  not  so  long  ago,  made  this  impressive  statement :  "Let  us  gather 
faith  as  a  people.  Let  us  so  order  our  lives  that  we  are  entitled  to  an 
increase  of  that  faith.  I  am  thankful  that  I  know  of  no  man  or  woman 
who  has  joined  this  Church  and  attended  his  or  her  sacrament  meetings, 
partaking  of  the  sacrament  in  remembrance  of  the  suffering  of  our 
Savior  and  his  death,  who  was  honest  in  the  payment  of  his  or  her 
tithing,  who  divided  with  the  Lord  as  perfectly  as  he  would  ask  the 
Lord  to  divide  with  them  if  they  were  making  up  an  account,  who  has 
kept  the  Word  of  Wisdom — I  have  never  known  of  such  a  person  to  lose 
his  or  her  faith."    This  is  indeed  a  marvelous  measuring  tape. 

There  are  many  things,  I  am  sure,  that  have  come  into  your  minds 
and  into  my  mind  this  day,  as  we  have  been  confronted,  not  only  with 
the  great  things  that  have  been  said,  but  the  realities  of  these  things  and 
the  sincerity  in  which  they  have  been  called  to  our  attention.  Indeed 
we  have  been  made  to  feel  the  divine  and  powerful  leadership  of  our 
President  and  of  the  Authorities  of  the  Church.  It  seems  to  me  there- 
fore, my  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  obligation  resting  upon  you 
and  me,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  should  carry  the  spirit  of  humility  to  seek 
our  Heavenly  Father  for  his  sustaining  power,  that  we  might  be  able  to 
retain  this  testimony  concerning  the  divinity  of  this  work,  and  uphold 
and  sustain  those  who  are  placed  in  authority  over  us.  They  are  men 
of  God. 

I  desire  to  bear  my  testimony  concerning  the  divinity  of  this  work.  I 
know,  as  I  know  that  I  breathe  the  breath  of  life,  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  the  instrumentality 
through  which  God  operated  in  bringing  to  pass  the  restoration  of  the 
saving  graces  of  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Master,  Jesus  Christ. 

I  am  grateful  beyond  words  for  the  great  blessings  that  have  come 
to  me  in  the  various  calls  that  I  have  had,  from  time  to  time,  in  lifting 
my  voice  in  the  defense  of  this  great  work  in  many  lands  and  in  many 
climes.  I  am  grateful  now  for  the  privilege  I  have  in  presiding  over  one 
of  the  temples  of  God,  in  witnessing  the  faith  of  the  many  people  who 
come  to  officiate  for  their  kindred  dead,  who  feel  the  relationship  that 
belongs  to  the  Gospel  of  our  Father  in  Heaven,  to  know  of  a  surety  that 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


this  is  a  reality,  that  our  dead  can  be  saved  through  our  faithfulness 
in  the  discharge  of  that  obligation  by  officiating  for  them. 

May  God  bless  us  with  the  spirit  of  appreciation.  May  we  be  humble 
and  prayerful.  May  we  find  ourselves  always  in  full  fellowship  and 
harmony,  exercising  that  consideration,  that  kindness,  the  spirit  of  the 
Gospel  toward  all  with  whom  we  associate  and  come  in  contact,  is  my 
humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer, 
Amen. 

An  anthem,  "Praise  to  the  Lord"  (Christensen)  was  sung  by  the 
Choir. 

Elder  James  Brown,  Jr.,  President  of  the  Woodruff  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  a.  m.  Monday,  April  5. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  Conference  reconvened  Monday  morning,  April  5,  at  10  o'clock 

a.  m. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "How  Firm  a  Foundation." 
Elder  Mark  W.  Cram,  President  of  the  Sacramento  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 

A  vocal  solo,  "Come  Ye  Blessed,"  was  sung  by  Sister  Jessie  Evans. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  have  decided  not  to  call  on  all  the  mission  presidents  to  speak 
at  this  Conference,  and  we  may  not  call  on  all  the  General  Authorities. 
We  have  tried  and  tried  in  vain  to  include  all  the  people  from  whom 
we  would  like  to  hear,  but  we  have  not  the  time  to  hear  from  them  all 
unless  we  should  finally  conclude,  in  years  to  come,  that  we  should  have 
four  days  of  Conference  instead  of  three  days. 

ELDER  BRYANT  S.  HINCKLEY 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  It  can  never  become  a  commonplace  to 
speak  in  this  historic  tabernacle,  nor  in  this  presence.  We  are  living  a 
long  way  from  home.  We  miss  the  mountains,  the  people  and  the 
tabernacle.  The  generation  of  men  who  laid  out  this  city,  erected  this 
temple,  and  builded  this  house,  built  far  better  than  they  knew.  I  do  not 
think  there  is  another  place  in  this  broad  land  that  people  look  to  with 
more  interest  than  they  do  this  Temple  Block.  Whether  they  belong  to 
our  faith  or  not  there  is  something  that  radiates  from  here  that  interests 
and  satisfies  them. 


ELDER  BRYANT  S.  HINCKLEY 


45 


On  November  28,  last,  President  Grant  arrived  in  Chicago  to  organ- 
ize the  118th  Stake  of  Zion.  He  was  received  with  great  respect.  The 
organization  of  the  Stake  was  effected  on  Sunday,  November  29.  This 
was  an  additional  confirmation  of  the  fact  that  the  Church  is  moving 
forward  on  many  fronts.  It  visions  a  world-wide  establishment.  Its 
benefits  and  blessings  are  not  limited  to  any  people  or  to  any  location. 
It  can  serve  the  people  of  Chicago  and  California,  of  New  York  and 
Hawaii,  just  as  efficiently  as  it  can  serve  the  people  of  Utah.  It  can  help 
those  that  dwell  upon  the  Islands  just  as  effectively  and  well  as  those  who 
live  upon  the  continents  of  the  earth.  Mormonism  is  just  as  strong  to 
save  the  people  east  of  the  Rocky  Mountains  as  it  is  those  west  of  the 
Rocky  Mountains.  No  matter  how  far  flung  its  Stakes,  how  wide  the 
territory  which  it  covers,  how  numerically  great  and  strong  it  may  become, 
it  has  the  divine  genius  of  reaching  the  individual,  of  lifting  him  up; 
of  filling  his  heart  with  hope,  and  inspiring  him  to  great  endeavor.  The 
humblest  Saint  living  in  the  remotest  corner  of  the  land  may  know  that 
the  Gospel  is  true,  with  the  same  assurance  that  the  Saint  who  lives 
under  the  shadows  of  the  Temple  may  know  it. 

Men  frequently  comment  upon  the  marvelous  organization  of  which 
we  are  a  part.  They  not  only  comment  upon  it,  but  they  have  tried 
to  copy  it,  but  they  cannot  make  it  work.  It  is  not  a  man-made  institu- 
tion. It  is  of  divine  origin.  The  Almighty  accomplishes  his  purposes 
through  men.  They  are  his  agents.  He  clothes  them  with  the  holy 
Priesthood  which  is  the  strength  of  the  Church,  the  source  of  authority. 
Referring  to  this  Priesthood — I  was  deeply  impressed  with  what  the 
President  said  yesterday.  All  my  life  I  have  read  or  listened  to  the  other 
people  read  the  121st  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  The  Presi- 
dent said  that  this  great  revelation  was  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  while  he  was  a  prisoner  in  Liberty  Jail,  Missouri.  No  mortal  man 
ever  gave  to  the  world  a  better  plan  for  the  government  of  men  than  is 
contained  in  this  revelation.  It  declares,  "The  powers  of  the  Priest- 
hood are  inseparably  connected  with  the  powers  of  Heaven."  Think 
of  it — as  powerful  as  this  Priesthood  is,  as  mighty  as  it  is  to  save,  it  can 
only  be  exercised  upon  the  principles  of  righteousness.  No  matter  who 
the  man  is  who  bears  this  Priesthood  nor  the  circumstances  under  which 
it  is  exercised — to  be  effective  it  must  be  exercised  in  harmony  with  the 
powers  of  Heaven. 

Yes,  the  Church  is  moving  forward  on  many  fronts  and  no  one  need 
be  alarmed  over  its  growth  nor  apprehensive  about  its  motives,  for  all  its 
purposes  are  beneficent  and  its  objectives  are  righteous.  It  is  more  than 
an  intelligent  plan  for  the  betterment  of  the  world,  it  is  an  institution 
inspired  of  the  Almighty  through  which  he  will  work  out  his  purposes. 

Every  missionary  bears  this  testimony  and  I  want  to  testify  that 
the  Almighty  has  set  his  hand  for  the  last  time  to  establish  his  work 
upon  the  earth  and  that  it  shall  never  be  thrown  down  and  given  to 
another  people,  that  it  shall  roll  forth  until  it  fills  the  whole  earth — He 
has  so  declared  it.  His  power  permeates  this  great  work  and  in  his  own 
due  time  and  in  his  own  appointed  way  he  will  make  it  victorious  in  the 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


earth.  Every  man  clothed  with  divine  authority  should  walk  in  humility 
before  his  Maker. 

A  missionary's  voice  in  this  world  is  a  very  small  voice.  The  dis- 
courses which  he  delivers  are  not  so  convincing  as  the  life  which  he  lives. 
God  be  praised  for  this  great  system  of  building  character  in  men  and 
boys.  May  he  help  those  who  have  been  commissioned  to  bear  his  mes- 
sage to  the  world,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

If  I  could  say  anything  that  would  contribute  to  a  larger  appreciation 
of  the  Priesthood  of  our  Church  I  would  be  grateful  indeed.  I  can 
scarcely  hope  to  add  a  new  thought  about  it.  It  is  an  old  principle  of  our 
religion  and  all  religions  and  it  is  a  common  subject  of  discourse.  Because 
it  is  old,  however,  and  because  it  is  common,  it  is  not  stale  nor  trite  and 
it  is  not  cheap. 

THE  PRIESTHOOD  DEFINED 

The  Priesthood  is  a  priceless  thing.  It  cannot  be  bought;  it  cannot 
be  sold, — at  least  not  for  considerations  that  are  monetary.  Its  values 
are  measured  in  terms  of  benefaction  and  blessing.  While  it  is  essen- 
tially spiritual  in  nature  and  essence,  the  results  which  flow  from  its 
use  and  administration  are  often  temporal  and  material.  It  is  at  once 
the  key  to  the  "mysteries  of  Godliness"  and  the  power  and  authority 
underlying  the  ecclesiastical  organization  of  God's  work  in  the  world.  It 
is  everlasting  in  duration.  It  existed  before  the  foundations  of  the  earth 
were  laid  and  will  endure  eternally.  In  its  last  analysis  it  is  the  endur- 
ing, perpetual  power  of  the  Gods, — that  is,  Elohim ;  the  power  by  which 
worlds  have  been  and  will  be  created ;  the  power  by  which  all  everlasting 
covenants  and  conditions  are  established  and  perpetuated ;  the  power  and 
the  only  power  which  gives  warrant  and  convincing  assurance  for  the 
fulfilment  of  the  highest  and  noblest  aspirations  of  the  human  family. 

The  Priesthood  is  usually  simply  defined  as  "the  power  of  God 
delegated  to  man."  This  definition,  I  think,  is  accurate.  But  for  practi- 
cal purposes  I  like  to  define  the  Priesthood  in  terms  of  service  and  I 
frequently  call  it  "the  perfect  plan  of  service."  I  do  so  because  it  seems 
to  me  that  it  is  only  through  the  utilization  of  the  divine  power  conferred 
on  men  that  they  may  ever  hope  to  realize  the  full  import  and  vitality 
of  this  endowment.  It  is  an  instrument  of  service.  Its  uses  and  pur- 
poses are  all  defined  in  terms  of  service  and  the  man  who  fails  to  use  it 
is  apt  to  lose  it,  for  we  are  plainly  told  by  revelation  that  he  who  neglects 
it  "shall  not  be  counted  worthy  to  stand." 

ACTIVITY  REQUIRED 

The  Priesthood  is  not  static  and  a  man's  ordination  to  it  is  not  a 
static  investiture.  There  may  be  some  men,  however,  who  so  regard  it, 
for  they  seem  to  be  so  smug  and  content  with  their  ordinations. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


47 


I  can  well  imagine  such  a  man  going  into  the  presence  of  the  great 
Eternal  Judge  and  saying  in  substance,  "While  I  was  on  earth  I  was  a 
High  Priest.  I  come  now  to  claim  the  reward  of  a  High  Priest."  I 
think  it  is  not  difficult  to  suppose  what  may  be  his  answer.  He  will 
likely  be  met  with  such  questions  as  these,  "What  did  you  do  when  you 
were  a  High  Priest  ?  How  did  you  use  this  great  power  which  you  held  ? 
Whom  did  you  bless  with  it?"  Upon  his  reply  to  such  interrogatories 
as  these  will  his  reward  be  predicated. 

PRIESTHOOD  COMPARED  WITH  A  STREAM 

I  have  sometimes  compared  the  powers  of  the  Priesthood  bestowed 
on  men  with  the  waters  that  flow  from  our  mountains  down  into  the 
valleys  below,  as  those  waters  are  controlled  and  regulated  by  the  law  of 
irrigation  which  prevails  in  our  western  states.  An  early  settler  might 
have  diverted  from  its  natural  channel  the  whole  of  a  mountain  stream  up- 
on lands  which  he  occupied  and  thereby  set  up  a  claim  of  right  and  owner- 
ship to  the  entire  flow,  but  the  law  said,  "No,  you  cannot  have  the  whole 
stream.  You  may  have  only  so  much  of  it  as  you  can  put  to  beneficial 
use  in  the  culture  and  production  of  crops  on  your  land,- — no  more." 
Is  it  not  so  with  the  great  stream  of  power  that  flows  from  the  fountain- 
head  of  God  down  to  his  servants  in  the  earth?  Can  anyone  claim  the 
right  to  more  of  that  power  than  he  uses  wisely  and  well  for'the  blessing 
of  his  fellowmen?  I  think  not  and  I  believe  that  if  he  indulges  such  a 
hope  he  will  be  disappointed. 

A  PERFECT  PLAN  OF  SERVICE 

But  the  Priesthood  is  not  only  a  plan  of  service,  it  is  the  perfect 
plan  of  service.  All  worthy  service  is  commendable.  The  man  who 
builds  my  house  to  shelter  my  family  from  the  storms  and  the  elements 
merits  my  approbation  and  gratitude.  I  am  indebted  to  the  man  who 
tills  the  soil,  for  food  and  bodily  sustenance.  To  the  scientists,  the 
inventors,  the  skilled  artisans  and  mechanics  and  the  captains  of  industry, 
we  owe  lasting  praise  and  thanksgiving  for  innumerable  comforts  and 
conveniences  that  make  life  easy  and  desirable.  The  artists  of  the  world 
have  gratified  our  inner  craving  for  expression  of  beauty  in  tender  and 
lofty  sentiment  in  art,  music,' literature  and  idealism. 

How  grateful  we  are  for  all  these  benefactions!  We  almost  wor- 
ship the  modern  medical  man  who,  with  patiently  developed  skill  and 
large  scientific  knowledge,  is  able  to  relieve  our  bodily  distresses,  mend 
our  broken  bones,  and  set  us  up  in  health  and  vigor.  We  venerate  our 
statesmen  and  cheer  to  the  echo  the  heroes  of  our  society. 

But,  who  of  all  these,  who  serve  so  well  and  so  nobly  the  interests 
of  the  human  family,  can  do  for  me  a  service  that  in  real  vitality,  in 
everlasting  benefit,  is  comparable  to  that  performed  by  a  humble  Elder 
in  the  Church  who  takes  me  into  the  waters  of  baptism  and  raising  his 
hand  to  high  heaven,  truly  says,  "Having  been  commissioned  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  I  baptize  you  in  the  name  of  the  Father  and  the  Son 
and  the  Holy  Ghost."   What  service  is  there  that  man  can  give  which 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


approaches  in  importance  and  eternal  beneficence  the  laying  on  of  the 
hands  of  the  Priesthood  and  the  utterance  of  those  divine  words  "Receive 
ye  the  Holy  Ghost"  and  "be  confirmed  a  member  of  the  Church  of 
Christ"  ? 

So  I  pronounce  the  Priesthood  "the  perfect  plan  of  service"  because 
through  its  administration  and  offices  our  lives  are  eternally  blessed.  Not 
only  is  it  essential  for  our  induction  into  the  Church  and  fold  of  Christ 
but  is  it  of  constant  application.  We  use  it  in  the  blessing  of  our  sick, 
to  relieve  suffering,  physical,  mental  and  spiritual ;  for  the  encouragement 
and  direction  of  our  officers  and  missionaries  as  they  are  set  apart  for 
their  respective  duties  in  the  Church ;  for  the  blessing  and  naming  of  little 
children ;  for  the  administration  of  the  Sacrament  of  the  Lord's  Supper 
in  the  partaking  of  which  we  continue  frequently  to  renew  our  covenants 
with  the  Savior;  in  the  ordination  of  men  and  boys  to  offices  in  the 
Priesthood  which  are  so  widely  distributed  in  our  Church ;  and  lastly  and 
perhaps  more  importantly  than  any  of  the  items  I-  have  mentioned,  in 
the  carrying  forward  of  our  temple  work  which  is  so  unique  in  the  world 
of  religion  and  so  distinctly  a  product  of  latter-day  revelation  in  which, 
through  the  authority  of  the  holy  Priesthood,  vicarious  work  is  done  for 
kindred  dead,  transcendently  beautiful  ceremonies  and  ordinances  are 
performed  for  the  holy,  eternal,  celestial  marriage  of  man  and  wife,  for 
the  sealing  of  children  to  parents,  for  the  establishment  of  eternal  bonds 
and  covenants  as  an  endowment  of  men  and  women  by  which  they  make 
preparation  to  come  back  into  the  presence  of  God  the  Father  and  His 
Son,  Jesus  Christ. 

I  said  the  Priesthood  is  widely  distributed  in  our  Church.  There  are 
180,000  men  and  boys  who  hold  it.  The  boys  have  what  is  termed  the 
lesser  or  Aaronic  Priesthood.  The  men  are  ordained  to  the  higher  or 
Melchizedek  Priesthood.  Within  these  orders  of  Priesthood  several 
offices  are  designated  by  revelation  and  the  duties  thereof  prescribed. 
The  men  and  boys  are  divided  into  quorums  or  groups  in  numbers  con- 
veniently designated  for  the  establishment  of  fraternal  relations  and  the 
accomplishment  of  service  in  the  Church. 

THE  PRIESTHOOD  IN  THE  HOME 

Every  man  is  made  a  better  man  by  reason  of  his  membership  in 
one  of  these  quorums  and  by  reason  of  his  ordination  to  the  Priesthood. 
A  man  with  the  Priesthood  is  a  better  father  and  husband  than  he  would 
otherwise  be ;  that  is,  if  he  appreciates  and  uses  the  powers  conferred  upon 
him.  He  presides  over  his  household  in  dignity  and  love.  He  wins  the 
respect  of  his  wife  and  children  by  his  constant  solicitation,  not  only  for 
their  temporal  but  for  their  spiritual  welfare  also.  Children  in  a  home 
presided  over  by  the  Priesthood  do  not  flippantly  and  disrespectfully 
refer  to  their  father  as  "the  old  man"  or  their  mother  as  "the  old  woman." 
The  very  nature  of  the  government  of  the  Priesthood  precludes  such 
impropriety.  A  wife  does  not  begrudge  a  man  of  the  Priesthood  his 
position  as  head  of  the  household.  She  honors  him  as  such  and  teaches 
her  children  to-  do  likewise,  for  she  well  understands  not  only  what  the 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


49 


Priesthood  means  to  her  husband  but  what  it  means  to  her  too.  She 
knows  that  if  she  sustains  her  husband  in  his  Priesthood  calling  she  has 
assurance  of  exaltation  with  him,  and  she  knows  moreover  that  if  he  is 
true  to  his  Priesthood  he  will  always  be  kind  and  faithful  and  righteous. 
I  feel  sure  that  if  we  could  have  more  of  the  authority  and  influence  of 
the  Priesthood  in  the  homes  of  the  land  we  should  have  infinitely  -less 
disrespect  for  law  and  order  and  the  established  institutions  of  society 
than  we  now  see  about  us  everywhere. 

The  man  of  the  Priesthood  is  a  better  citizen  and  a  better  neighbor 
than  he  would  be  without  it.  Holding  authority  himself,  he  is  con- 
strained to  respect  authority.  Being  a  part  of  the  government  of  God,  he 
sustains  all  governments.  His  life  is  dedicated  to  service.  He  must  be  a 
good  neighbor,  serving  the  needs  of  those  about  him. 

The  man  of  the  Priesthood  loves  knowledge  and  education.  He  is 
taught  that  "the  glory  of  God  is  intelligence,"  that  "man  cannot  be 
saved  in  ignorance,"  and  that  knowledge  is  power.  He  is  enjoined  to 
teach  truth  and  righteousness  and  he  knows  that  he  cannot  teach  unless 
he  learns. 

HUMILITY  AND  INTEGRITY 

While  the  Priesthood  is  a  principle  of  force  and  action  it  nevertheless 
makes  a  man  humble.  The  realization  of  the  responsibility  it  entails, — 
this  partnership  with  God  in  the  exercise  of  His  power,  and  the  very 
nature  of  the  grant  itself  tends  to  subdue  natural  human  egotism.  When 
one  blesses  the  sick  he  knows  that  it  would  be  futile  to  rely  on  his  own 
talent,  his  own  influence,  or  fine  words  in  the  presence  of  distress  and 
suffering  and  the  imminence  of  death.  His  native  powers  seem  as 
nothing.  He  realizes  that  it  is  only  through  faith  and  with  a  pure  heart 
that  he  can  pronounce,  with  a  power  superior  to  his  human  faculties,  a 
blessing  that  will  be  efficacious. 

Those  who  bear  the  Priesthood  know  too  that  their  lives  must  be 
consistent  with  the  divine  commission  which  has  come  to  them.  No  man 
can  lie,  steal,  malign  his  neighbor  or  pollute  his  body  with  poisons  and 
defile  himself  with  sin  and  expect  the  stream  of  God's  power  to  flow 
through  him.  The  holding  of  the  Priesthood  stimulates  a  man  more  than 
anything  I  know  to  conform  his  life  to  the  standards  and  attributes  of  the 
Master  whose  authorized  representative  he  is. 

PRIESTHOOD  FROM  DIVINE  SOURCE 

And  it  is  true  that  a  man  who  has  been  properly  ordained  to  the 
Priesthood  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  an 
authorized  and  duly  accredited  representative  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
To  many,  no  doubt,  this  appears  as  a  bold  and  highly  presumptuous  state- 
ment to  make.  But  it  is  a  fact  substantiated  by  creditable  evidence.  I 
am  not  infrequently  asked,  particularly  by  those  whom  I  ordain,  as  to 
the  derivation  or  lineage  of  my  Priesthood.  I  reply  by  setting  forth  four 
steps  only :  I  was  ordained  by  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  he  by  Presdient 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Brigham  Young,  Brigham  Young  by  the  Three  Witnesses,  one  of  whom, 
Oliver  Cowdery,  was  ordained  by  the  angelic  ministers,  Peter,  James 
and  John  at  the  beginning  of  this  dispensation.  So  the  authority  of  the 
Priesthood  which  we  bear  is  proximate  to  the  divine  source  from  which 
it  emanates.  Neither  its  origin  nor  its  descent  is  beclouded  and  obscured 
in  remote  antiquity  by  equivocal  and  doubtful  beginnings  and  transfers. 
Living  witnesses  or  the  recorded  testimony  of  those  who  have  recently 
passed  away  attest  the  validity  of  each  act  and  event  which  has  brought 
to  us  this  delegation  of  divine  power. 

Not  only  are  we  able  to  establish  the  legality  of  our  credentials  to 
participate  in  this  great  work  but  in' addition  thereto,  I  feel  sure  that  the 
experience  of  our  people  with  the  powers  of  the  Priesthood,  extending 
now  for  more  than  a  century  of  time,  furnish  irrefutable  proof  of  the 
genuineness  -  and  divine  nature  of  the  powers  which  have  been  exercised. 
Spiritual  manifestations  and  temporal  blessings  derived  through  the 
Priesthood  have  been  altogether  too  numerous  to  estimate  or  recount. 
Under  the  Priesthood  the  Church  was  set  up  by  a  young  man  unlearned 
in  the  things  of  the  world.  Its  marvelous  organization,  its  procedure 
and  practices,  its  ordinances  and  ceremonies  and  its  incomparably  beauti- 
ful and  uplifting  interpretation  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  are  all  attri- 
butable directly  to  the  powers  of  the  holy  Priesthood.  Even  its  temporal 
successes  and  those  of  its  members,  the  migrations  of  the  people  and  their 
establishment  in  different  sections  of  the  earth  are  due  to  the  inspired 
direction  of  the  Priesthood  of  the  Church.  So  that,  if  you  ask  any  man 
who  has  had  experience  with  the  Church  or  knows  its  history  what  one 
thing  it  is  that  more  definitely  distinguishes  our  people  from  any  other 
group  and  what  one  thing  is  most  accountable  for  all  our  successes  and 
achievements,  he  will  readily  respond:  the  Priesthood  of  the  Church  of 
Christ. 

ATTRIBUTES  OF  PRIESTHOOD 

I  wish  all  the  world  would  come  to  understand  the  real  essence  and 
inner  nature  of  this  precious  power.  I  fear  that  there  are  too_many  who 
look  upon  it  as  autocratic,  compulsory  and  dictatorial.  The  Lord  has  set 
forth  its  nature  and  constitution  in  a  revelation,  which,  it  seems  to  me, 
more  nearly  breathes  the  true,  kind,  loving,  considerate,  merciful  and 
righteous  spirit  of  Christ  than  anything  we  have  on  record.  I  will  not 
quote  it  here  because  you  are  all  familiar  with  it.  You  well  know  how  it 
enjoins  humility,  "long  suffering,  gentleness  and  meekness  and  love  un- 
feigned" upon  those  who  minister  with  the  Priesthood,  warning  against 
any  compulsion,  unrighteousness  and  ulterior  motives  and  advocating 
methods  only  of  kindness  and  persuasion. 

Knowing  the  attributes  of  the  Priesthood  as  we  do,  we  do  not  fear 
it.  Our  unanimity  of  thought  and  action  in  response  to  its  suggestions 
or  nominations  is  not  constrained  upon  us  by  domination  and  coercion. 
It  is  but  the  natural  product  of  our  accord  with  the  wisdom  and  the 
inspiration  of  our  leaders  and  the  persuasion  of  righteousness  and  truth. 
We  who  give  our  allegiance  to  the  Priesthood  are  not  slaves  and  puppets, 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


51 


we  are  free,  and  the  more  perfectly  we  yield  to  the  doctrines  and  the 
dominion  of  the  Priesthood,  the  more  unanimous  we  become  in  its  sup- 
port.   It  is  the  truth  that  makes  one  free.   Error  is  bondage. 

Very  often  things  that  are  common  come  to  be  regarded  as  cheap. 
If  gold  were  as  common  as  clay  it  might  not  be  the  standard  of  values  in 
the  world.  I  fear  that  in  some  instances  and  with  some  people  the  exten- 
sive and  common  bestowal  of  the  Priesthood  upon  the  men  and  boys  of 
our  Church  tends  to  lessen  respect  and  deference  for  it.  Being  easy  of 
acquirement,  its  value  is  sometimes  deprecated. 

This  is  a  great  and  serious  mistake.  In  the  first  place  the  Priesthood 
has  not  been  easy  of  acquisition  in  this  or  any  other  dispensation  when 
it  has  been  in  the  earth.  Those  who  acquired  it  in  the  beginning  of  our 
Church  and  those  who  have  preserved  it  and  passed  it  on  as  a  heritage  to 
this  generation  suffered  for  it  and  endured  trials,  tribulations  and  even 
death  that  it  might  be  established  and  preserved.  In  the  second  place,  it  is 
not  common  among  the  peoples  of  the  world.  If  all  of  our  men  and  boys 
who  bear  it  were  to  be  distributed  among  the  people  of  the  world  there 
would  be  but  one  in  every  ten  thousand  of  the  world's  population  who 
would  hold  the  Priesthood  of  the  living  God.  If  such  a  distribution  were 
actual,  I  have  an  idea  that  no  man  would  look  upon  his  Priesthood  as 
being  common  or  cheap. 

ADMONITION  TO  BE  TRUE 

So  I  say :  men  of  the  Priesthood,  be  true.  Use  the  power  that  God 
has  given  you.  Bless  your  fellowmen  with  it.  It  will  save  you  and  it 
will  save  the  world. 

And  to  the  sisters  may  I  say :  support  your  husbands  in  God's  work. 
Encourage  them  and  commend  them  in  the  performance  of  their  duties. 
It  is  not  always  easy  for  a  tired  wife  to  forego  the  help  and  companion- 
ship of  her  husband  in  the  evening  when  she  needs  his  assistance  and 
his  comfort  in  the  care  of  the  family.  It  is  a  real  sacrifice  to  have  him 
go  to  his  duties  in  the  Priesthood.  But  urge  him  to  go;  you  will  never 
regret  it;  your  sacrifice  will  be  rewarded. 

I  wish  I  could  say  something  about  the  quorums  of  the  Priesthood, 
those  divinely  appointed  organizations  which  are  designed  to  promote  and 
conserve  the  education,  the  brotherhood  and  the  service  of  the  members, 
but  time  will  not  permit.   I  must  close. 

In  closing,  I  offer  my  personal  testimony.  I  do  so  with  some  hesita- 
tion because  my  personal  conviction  seems  so  private  and  so  sacred  to  me. 
I  am  constrained  to  do  it  by  the  hope  that  the  assurance  which  has  so 
blessed  my  own  life  may  bless  the  lives  of  others. 

A  STRONG  TESTIMONY 

I  know  with  a  conviction  that  satisfies  every  knowing  faculty  that 
I  possess,  that  the  Priesthood  of  God  is  real  and  genuine,  that  it  is  a 
vital  essence  of  force  and  power.  I  have  felt  its  influence ;  I  have  been 
consciously  aware  of  its  passing  from  me  as  I  have  laid  my  hands  on  the 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


heads  of  others  in  the  administration  of  its  kindly  offices.  I  have  seen  its 
effect.  I  know  that  it  is  more  than  a  narfle  and  a  symbolism.  I  prize  it 
above  all  earthly  possessions.  I  look  upon  it  as  the  key  to  all  the  happiness 
and  joy  and  glory  for  which  I  aspire  and  I  would  rather  lose  anything 
else  that  has  ever  come  into  my  life  than  to  lose  my  Priesthood. 

I  humbly  pray  that  I  may  prove  in  some  measure  worthy  to  hold  and 
exercise  the  divine  power  which,  in  the  providence  of  God,  has  come  to 
me,  and  that  I  may  be  worthy  of  the  association  which  I  have  been  so 
highly  privileged  to  enjoy  with  President  Smith  and  President  Grant  and 
the  other  noble  men  with  whom  my  lot  has  been  cast.  I  pray  also  that 
like  blessings  may  come  to  all  my  brethren  who  bear  the  Priesthood  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.   In  His  name,  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a 
Prophet." 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
The  prince  of  this  world  cometh,  and  hath  nothing  in  me.    (John  14: 

30.) 

These  words  were  spoken  by  Jesus  in  his  last  discourse  before  his 
crucifixion — the  discourse  which  ended  with  that  divine  prayer  that 
flowed  from  the  soul  of  the  Redeemer.  That  glorious  sermon  began 
with  the  words  that  have  cheered  myriads  of  souls,  "Let  not  your  heart 
be  troubled ;  ye  believe  in  God,  believe  also  in  me."  In  the  Savior  alone 
are  found  all  the  treasures  of  love,  true  science  and  infinite  wisdom.  He 
is  the  joy  of  the  desolate,  the  hope  of  the  penitent. 

RIGHTEOUSNESS  BINDS  SATAN 

The  prince  of  the  world  is  Satan.  He  is  the  prince  of  darkness. 
Satan  could  find  no  taint  of  sin  in  the  Savior.  In  the  Lord  there  was 
nothing  for  the  evil  one  to  fasten  on,  for  he  was  without  blemish  and 
without  spot. 

Last  summer,  in  a  certain  park,  I  observed  that  a  number  of  the  trees 
were  fast  losing  their  beautiful  leaves.  They  were  attacked  by  caterpil- 
lars and  worms.  It  was  evident  that  these  pests  were  attracted  to  those 
trees.  In  the  same  park  were  other  trees ;  their  foliage  was  lovely  with 
bright  colors.  There  was  nothing  in  these  trees  to  invite  the  destroyers. 
They  were  immune. 

It  is  possible,  thank  God,  for  every  righteous  man  to  bind  the 
evil  one  so  far  as  he  himself  is  concerned.  The  Almighty  alone  knows  the 
wonderful  help  and  example  we  extend  to  our  fellow  creatures  when 
our  lives  are  such  that  Satan  can  find  nothing  on  which  to  fasten. 

Each  man  makes  his  own  stature,  builds  himself, 
Virtue  alone  outbuilds  the  Pyramids, 
Her  monuments  shall  last  when  Egypt's  fall. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


53 


WORKS  OF  THE  FLESH 

And  Jesus  said, 

That  which  cometh  out  of  the  man,  that  defileth  the  man. 

For  from  within,  out  of  the  heart  of  men,  proceed  evil  thoughts, 
adulteries,  fornications,  murders, 

Thefts,  covetousness,  wickedness,  deceit,  lasciviousness,  an  evil  eye, 
blasphemy,  pride,  foolishness : 

All  these  evil  things  come  from  within,  and  defile  the  man.  (Mark 
7:20-23.) 

After  enumerating  the  works  of  the  flesh  and  declaring  "that  they 
which  do  such  things  shall  not  inherit  the  kingdom  of  God,"  the  Apostle 
Paul  says : 

WORKS  OF  THE  SPIRIT 

But  the  fruit  of  the  Spirit  is  love,  joy,  peace,  longsuffering,  gentleness, 
goodness,  faith, 

Meekness,  temperance :  against  such  there  is  no  law. 

And  they  that  are  Christ's  have  crucified  the  flesh  with  the  affections 
and  lusts.    (Galatians  5:22-24.) 

There  i  are  certain  institutions  that  can  create  and  maintain  a  nation. 
They  are  the  foundation  stones  of  any  nation  that  hopes  to  endure.  Chief 
among  these  institutions  are  marriage,  virtue,  sobriety,  industry,  obedi- 
ence to  law,  loyalty  to  country,  love  of  fellowman  and  an  affectionate  re- 
spect and  reverence  for  God,  our  Heavenly  Father.  But  when  a  republic 
or  a  monarchy  rejects  these  foundation  stones,  these  roots  of  Christianity, 
there  shall  arise  another  Gibbon  to  write  the  decline  and  fall  of  a  nation 
that  rejects  God  and  disobeys  his  commandments.  "Righteousness  ex- 
alteth  a  nation  but  sin  is  a  reproach  to  any  people." 

FREEDOM  IN  RIGHTEOUSNESS 

There  is  something  grand  in  being  free,  and  true  freedom  is  found 
in  righteousness.  There  are  those  who  say  that  Christianity  has  never 
had  a  fair  trial  in  the  way  of  relieving  economic  distress,  but  it  has  had  a 
fair  trial  and  it  has  succeeded  in  improving  the  temporal  needs  of  the 
people  whenever  and  wherever  it  has  been  conscientiously  observed. 

In  the  Book  of  Mormon  we  read  of  a  nation  that  lived  in  peace  for 
over  a  century  and  a  half.  They  had  all  things  in  common.  There  were 
no  rich.  There  were  no  poor.  Each  man  loved  his  neighbor  as  himself, 
and  they  prospered :  they  became  exceeding  rich  as  to  this  world's  goods. 
Moreover  they  prospered  in  the  unsearchable  riches  of  Christ,  the  only 
riches  that  endure.  But  pride  crept  in,  the  pride  that  goeth  before  a  fall, 
and  the  words  of  Byron  portray  the  unhappy  result : 

Here  is  the  moral  of  all  human  tales. 
'Tis  but  the  same  rehearsal  of  the  past; 
First  freedom  and  then  glory;  when  that  fails 
Wealth,  vice,  corruption,  barbarism  at  last, 
And  history,  with  all  her  volumes  vast, 
Hath  but  one  page. 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


AMERICA  LAND  OF  PROMISE,  CONDITIONALLY 

Moroni,  an  inspired  prophet,  whose  words  are  in  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, declared  that  America  is  a  land  of  promise,  choice  above  all  other 
lands,  but  he  said,  by  the  word  of  God,  that  "whatsoever  nation  shall 
possess  it  shall  be  free  from  bondage,  and  from  captivity,  and  from  all 
other  nations  under  heaven,  if  they  will  but  serve  the  God  of  the  land, 
who  is  Jesus  Christ,"  or  they  would  perish  when  the  fulness  of  his  wrath 
came  upon  them  because  they  were  ripe  in  iniquity. 

That  same  prophet,  in  giving  this  warning,  looks  down  the  ages 
and  talks  to  the  people  of  this  great  God-established,  glorious  republic. 
He  warns  them  of  the  evils  that  have  brought  other  nations  down  into 
obscurity  and  covered  them  with  destruction,  and  says : 

And  this  cometh  unto  you,  O  ye  Gentiles,  that  ye  may  know  the  de- 
crees of  God — that  ye  may  repent,  and  not  continue  in  your  iniquities  until 
the  fulness  come,  that  ye  may  not  bring  down  the  fulness  of  the  wrath  of 
God  upon  you  as  the  inhabitants  of  the  land  have  hitherto  done.  (Book 
of  Mormon,  Ether  2:11.) 

Our  father's  God,  to  thee, 

Author  of  liberty, 

To  Thee  we  sing. 

Long  may  our  land  be  bright, 

With  freedom's  holy  light, 

Protect  us  by  thy  might, 

Great  God,  our  King. 

DESTRUCTION  IN  UNCHASTITY 

I  want  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  sinister  crime, 
that  destructive  sin,  which  brings  down  the  fulness  of  the  wrath  of  God 
upon  the  people,  the  iniquity  in  which  they  ripen,  is  the  sin  of  unchastity, 
uncleanness.  Men's  hearts  are  filled  with  the  things  that  the  Savior  said 
defiled  them,  and  of  these  things  they  must  repent;  for  if  they  do  not 
purge  themselves  of  these  things  God  has  forbidden,  no  matter  how 
great  their  might,  they  will  go  down,  for  sin  never  was  happiness. 

I  don't  know,  I  am  sure,  how  long  this  nation  will  survive  disregard 
of  God,  unchastity,  Sabbath  breaking  and  other  evils  that  are  in  our 
midst.    Tennyson  said: 

Ring  out  the  old,  ring  in  the  new, 
Ring  out  old  shapes  of  foul  disease ; 
Ring  out  the  narrowing  lust  of  gold ; 
Ring  out  the  thousand  wars  of  old, 
Ring  in  the  thousand  years  of  peace. 
Ring  in  the  valiant  man  and  free, 
The  larger  heart,  the  kindlier  hand! 
Ring  out  the  darkness  of  the  land. 
Ring  in  the  Christ  that  is  to  be. 

I  humbly  pray  that  every  Latter-day  Saint  and  all  men  may  live 
such  dives  that  with  their  blessed  Redeemer  they  can  say: 

The  prince  of  this  world  cometh,  and  hath  nothing  in  me. 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL  55 

God  help  us  to  reach  that  heavenly,  soul-saving  ideal,  I  humbly  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  feel  greatly  honored  to  be  permitted  to  stand  before  you  brethren 
and  sisters  and  take  part  in  this  great  Conference. 

Brethren,  and  all  who  are  members  of  the  Church,  I  have  discovered 
that  I  am  still  alive,  and  I  am  very  pleased  to  be  living  and  to  be  in  your 
midst. 

I  have  nothing  in  the  world  before  me  that  has  any  great  value, 
other  than  faith  and  hope  and  love  of  God  and  his  commandments.  I 
can  think  of  nothing  before  me  that  has  any  greater  value  than  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  have  tried  to  impress  the  people  that  I  was  sincere,  frank,  and 
honest  in  my  beliefs.  I  think  I  have  had  a  pretty  hard  time  in  the  last 
year,  a  sort  of  a  crucial  test  as  to  just  how  I  will  finish  my  work.  I  have 
been  with  you  people  in  conference  assembled  pretty  nearly  a  half  a 
century,  and  at  no  time  during  my  life  have  I  been  treated  more  kindly, 
more  courteously  and  more  helpfully  than  during  the  past  year. 

I  have  spoken  at  several  Priesthood  and  Seventies'  meetings  during 
the  past  year  .  A  little  over  a  year  ago  I  attended  a  young  peoples'  meeting 
in  Forest  Dale.  I  was  in  my  usual  physical  condition.  I  undertook  to 
speak  to  the  young  people.  In  about  five  minutes  I  went  silent.  I  sat 
down.  They  dismissed  their  meeting.  I  went  home.  I  felt  then :  "I  am 
through ;  I  have  finished,"  but  it  hasn't  come  true,  because  I  am  still  alive 
and  trying  to  fulfil  my  mission. 

I  have  great  joy  and  pleasure.  God  knows  that  I  still  want  to  fill 
a  mission  and  be  honorably  released  and  return  from  whence  I  came. 

When  I  was  sixteen,  my  father,  Heber  C.  Kimball,  was  sixty-seven 
years  old,  as  strong,  powerful,  masterful  a  man  as  ever  lived ;  with  a 
great  family — twenty-five  sons  and  ten  daughters.  He  was  injured  by 
accident  and  later  was  paralyzed — I  can  remember  the  very  day  when 
he  was  stricken — and  he  never  spoke  afterwards,  although  he  was  con- 
scious of  his  surroundings. 

Well,  I  have  been  favored  in  the  past  year.  About  one  year  ago  I 
went  to  California.  Mrs.  Kimball  was  very  sick,  unable  to  walk.  I  am 
not  telling  you  a  hard  luck  story.  While  I  was  there  I  was  stricken  blind 
for  eleven  or  twelve  days.  I  have  overcome  that  partly,  and  I  am  able 
to  see. 

Now,  I  don't  know  of  anybody  here  present  that  has  a  greater  reason 
to  be  thankful  than  I  have.  I  may  be  ungrateful  at  times,  and  I  may  be 
unthankful,  but  I  honor  God,  the  eternal  Father,  and  His  Son  Jesus 
Christ.  I  believe  with  all  of  my  soul  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of 
God ;  that  Brigham  Young  was  a  prophet  of  God ;  that  Heber  C.  Kimball 
and  all  those  other  great  men  were  inspired  of  the  Lord.  As  far  as  I  am 
concerned,  if  these  things  are  not  true,  and  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

is  not  true,  I  wouldn't  give  you  twenty-five  cents  for  what  you  leave 
behind  you.    But  it  is  true.    It  is  my  testimony  to  you  that  it  is  true. 

Before  I  conclude  I  want  to  say  to  you  brethren  that  I  have  been 
personally  acquainted  with  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  since  the  days 
of  President  Seymour  B.  Young.  The  Council  that  we  have  now — 
I  happen  to  be  senior  President  but  am  not  able  to  do  very  much — this 
Council  has  sustained  me.  They  have  been  so  kind  and  considerate  that 
I  honor  them.  I  am  testifying  to  you  good  people — and  we  have  ample 
proof  of  it — at  no  time  in  the  history  of  the  Seventies  has  the  First 
Council  been  more  faithful  as  witnesses  for  God  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth,  and  preachers  of  righteousness,  than  these  men  are;  the  Twelve 
Apostles  the  same ;  and  the  First  Council  is  under  their  direction.  They 
have  been  greatly  blessed  by  the  Lord,  and  they  are,  through  the  Seven- 
ties, doing  a  wonderful  work,  fulfilling  a  great  mission  among  the  stakes 
of  Zion,  and  at  no  time  have  they  accomplished  a  greater  work.  They 
have  the  spirit  of  their  office  and  calling.  I  sustain  them.  I  want  to 
leave  my  testimony  with  them.  If  it  isn't  true,  as  I  said  before,  there  is 
nothing  true. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  you.  I  pray  God  the  Eternal  Father  to 
bless  President  Grant.  It  isn't  the  man.  We  don't  worship  men.  I  don't. 
I  have  never  believed  you  get  on  higher  ground  by  worshiping  a  man. 
I  am  a  good  deal  like  my  father.  Before  he  died  he  was  praying.  He 
called  together  this  great  patriarchal  family  of  his,  and  he  got  to  praying. 
When  he  prayed,  he  just  talked  to  the  Lord.  He  wasn't  talking  to  men ; 
he  was  talking  to  the  Lord.  So  father  finally  burst  out  in  a  laugh  and 
he  said :  "Oh,  Lord,  forgive  me.  When  I  pray  for  some  men  I  have 
to  laugh."  He  had  to  apologize  to  the  Lord,  because  it  amused  him  to 
pray  for  some  men. 

I  honor  President  Grant.  I  have  every  reason  for  it.  I  have  known 
him  all  during  my  ministry ;  and  it  isn't  the  man ;  it  is  the  prophet.  God 
bless  the  prophet  whom  God  raised  up  to  guide  and  direct  his  people,  I 
humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  something  has  been- said  during  this  meet- 
ing regarding  the  respect  shown  to  the  Authorities  of  the  Church,  and 
the  love  and  esteem  in  which  they  are  held  by  those  who  are  working 
with  them.  I  share  in  that  esteem.  Fortunately  for  me,  I  have  known 
many  of  them  for  many  years. 

The  thing,  however,  that  impresses  me  most  in  this  respect  is  the 
fact  that  our  missionaries,  young  men  and  young  women,  called  from 
remote  sections  of  the  Church,  have  the  same  testimony,  and  support 
these  Authorities  with  the  same  enthusiasm  and  zeal  with  which  they  are 
supported  by  those  who  know  them  best. 

It  has  been  my  great  privilege  to  labor  among  these  missionaries. 
I  love  them.    This  great  missionary  work  has  become  dear  to  me.  One 


ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON 


57 


of  the  finest  things  about  it  is  the  attitude,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  of 
your  sons  and  daughters  with  respect  to  God  and  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  I  have  seen  them,  in  a  few  short  months,  transformed  from 
hesitating  and  doubting  boys  and  girls  to  mature,  earnest  men  and  women. 
The  thing  that  pleases  me  most  is  to  hear  them  bear  their  testimony. 
They  speak  the  truth.    They  are  not  seeking  to  deceive. 

The  words  of  the  Apostle  Paul,  in  writing  to  Timothy,  come  to 

me : 

I  thank  Christ  Jesus  our  Lord,  who  hath  enabled  me,  for  that  he 
counted  me  faithful,  putting  me  into  the  ministry  *  *  * 

And  the  grace  of  our  Lord  was  exceeding  abundant  with  faith  and  love 
which  is  in  Christ  Jesus. 

This  is  a  faithful  saying,  and  worthy  of  all  acceptation,  that  Christ 
Jesus  came  into  the  world  to  save  sinners ;  of  whom  I  am  chief. 

We  have  had  a  great  experience  during  the  last  six  months  in 
the  Eastern  States  Mission.  We  have  been  blessed  with  a  great  deal 
of  publicity.  Newspapers  have  treated  us  kindly.  They  have  spoken 
well  of  the  great  movements  of  the  Church  and  of  the  people.  Now  I 
am  wondering,  and  the  challenge  that  seems  to  come  to  me  is :  How 
can  we  somehow  make  the  people  of  the  world  realize  that  the  people, 
in  and  of  themselves,  are  no  greater  than  other  people,  but  that  some- 
thing has  come  into  their  lives  to  make  them  worthy  of  the  things  that 
are  said  of  them  and  the  things  that  they  are  doing?  How  can  we 
put  over  the  message  that  water  does  not  rise  above  its  source ;  that 
"men  do  not  gather  grapes  from  thorns,  or  figs  from  thistles ;"  that  there 
is  something  in  this  message,  of  itself,  inherently,  that  makes  this 
people  do  what  they  are  doing? 

If  we  can  do  that,  if  we  can  make  them  know  that  we  believe  that 
the  greatest  character  who  has  ever  crossed  the  pages  of  history  is  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  we  serve  him  best  when  we  keep  most 
perfectly  his  commandments,  and  that  we  are  what  we  are  because  of 
him,  then  we  have  done  well.  If  we  have  faith  in  this  world  only, 
in  the  Savior,  then  well  might  the  Apostle  Paul  say:  "We  are  of  all  men 
most  miserable."  If  we  can  somehow  get  the  people  to  understand  that 
whatever  there  is  great  among  the  Mormon  people  it  is  because  there 
has  been  translated  into  their  lives  the  principles  and  teachings  of  our 
Savior,  and  unto  him  we  give  the  honor,  the  praise  and  the  glory :  If 
we  can  let  them  know,  in  the  language  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  where 
Mosiah  said :  "Moreover,  I  say  unto  you,  that  there  shall  be  no  other 
name  given  nor  any  other  way  nor  means  whereby  salvation  can  come 
unto  the  children  of  men,  only  in  and  through  the  name  of  Christ,  the 
Lord  omnipotent;"  and  that  because  we  get  these  truths  into  the  lives 
of  people  we  succeed  in  getting  them  to  accomplish  the  things  for  which 
we  are  commended.  It  is  the  Gospel  of  Christ  that  has  made  the 
Mormon  people  what  they  are. 

To  me,  our  great  mission  and  work  in  the  field  is  to  preach  Christ 
and  him  crucified.  I  rejoice  also  that  in  gaining  a  testimony  of  the 
Savior  our  missionaries  are  impressed  with  the  fact  that  as  they  study 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Mormonism,  so-called,  they  see  that  it  is  but  the  pathway,  the  guide 
to  life  eternal,  through  the  course  mapped  out  by  our  Savior.  They 
sustain  these  men  as  prophets  of  God,  because  God  gives  them  a  testi- 
mony of  the  Gospel,  not  because  they  know  them  personally.  Those  of 
us  who  know  them  personally  can  bear  testimony  to  their  integrity,  but 
I  rejoice  that  the  young  people,  particularly  the, missionaries,  throughout 
the  world  say  that  they  are  prophets  of  God,  because  they  know  the 
Gospel  is  true.  They  have  learned  that  by  finding  out  that  Christ  is 
the  way  to  salvation  and  life,  and  that  in  this  Gospel  are  found  the 
teachings  of  that  Lord  and  Master;  that  the  same  principles  which  he 
advocated  are  advocated  now;  that  the  same  powers,  the  same  saving 
graces,  the  same  gifts  and  blessings  that  were  given  to  his  people 
anciently  are  given  now,  if  we  are  obedient  unto  that  Gospel. 

They  discover  that  these  men,  these  principles,  these  things  that 
are  making  us  known,  are  but  the  results  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  being  translated  into  life. 

Oh,  I  pray  that  we  shall  appreciate  sincerely  that  the  good  things 
that  are  being  said  of  us  shall  be  said  of  us  because  we  are  worthy ; 
that  we  shall  indeed  translate  into  our  lives  these  glorious  principles  of 
the  Gospel ;  that  in  all  things  Christ,  the  Redeemer  and  Savior  of  the 
world,  shall  be  magnified  and  his  name  glorified  in  all  the  earth. 

In  humility  I  bear  witness,  too,  that  I  know  that  he  lives,  and  that  he 
is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  As  has  been  said  by  Brother  Stephen 
L.  Richards,  this  testimony  is  peculiarly  sacred  to  me,  but  I  feel,  neverthe- 
less, constrained  to  bear  this  witness  unto  you,  and  to  say  that  the  most 
glorious  privilege  of  my  life  has  been  preaching  our  Lord  and  his  work 
in  the  earth. 

I  close  with  a  voice  of  prayer,  in  the  language  of  one  of  our  poets : 

Oh,  Thou  by  whom  we  come  to  God, 

The  Life,  the  Truth,  the  Way! 
The  path  of  prayer  Thyself  hath  trod; 

Lord,  teach  us  how  to  pray. 

May  the  Lord  teach  us  to  be  obedient,  to  love  and  keep  his  command- 
ments, and  translate  into  our  lives  the  things  that  are  worth  while  in 
the  Gospel,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  our  Redeemer,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of,  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  feel  my  weakness  this  morning,  and  seek  your  faith  and  prayers. 
I  have  been  happy  in  listening  to  the  testimonies  of  my  brethren,  and 
especially  the  words  of  counsel  and  warning  which  have  been  given  unto 
us  by  those  who  have  spoken  thus  far. 

PEACE  TAKEN  FROM  THE  EARTH 

We  are  living  in  perilous  times.  The  world  is  in  commotion.  One 
hundred  years  ago — to  be  exact,  in  November  of  1831 — the  Lord  gave 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


59 


his  Preface  to  his  Commandments.  You  know  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants is  different  from  any  other  book.  It  was  not  written  by  Joseph 
Smith.  It  is  the  work  of  God,  and  as  its  author  he  had  the  right,  of  course, 
to  write  his  preface,  which  he  did,  and  he  said  this : 

For  I  am  no  respecter  of  persons,  and  will  that  all  men  shall  know  that 
the  day  speedily  cometh ;  the  hour  is  not  yet,  but  is  nigh  at  hand,  when  peace 
shall  be  taken  from  the  earth,  and  the  devil  shall  have  power  over  his  own 
dominion. 

One  year  after  the  organization  of  the  Church,  peace  could  not  have 
been  taken  from  the  earth,  in  justice,  but  the  Lord  said  the  time  would 
speedily  come.  That  time  has  come.  Peace  has  departed  from  the 
world.  The  devil  has  power  today  over  his  own  dominion.  This  is  made 
manifest  in  the  actions  of  men,  in  the  distress  among  the  nations,  in  the 
troubles  that  we  see  in  all  lands,  including  this  land  which  was  dedicated 
to  liberty. 

There  is  no  peace.  Men's  hearts  are  failing  them.  Greed  has  the 
uppermost  place  in  the  hearts  of  men.  Evil  is  made  manifest  on  every 
side,  and  people  are  combining  for  their  own  selfish  interests.  Because  of 
this  I  was  glad  to  hear  the  warning  voice  raised  by  our  beloved  President 
and  by  his  counselors,  yesterday,  and  by  others  of  the  brethren  who  have 
spoken;  for  I  think  this  should  be  a  time  of  warning,  not  only  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  but  to  all  the  world.  We  owe  it  to  the  world,  to  raise  a 
voice  of  warning,  and  especially  to  the  members  of  the  Church. 

A  TRUE  CHURCH 

I  would,  with  all  my  heart,  that  we,  the  members  of  this  Church, 
were  living  in  unity  and  peace  and  the  love  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ ; 
which  is  perhaps  more  than  we  can  expect  under  mortal  conditions,  for 
the  Savior,  in  one  of  his  parables,  stated  that  the  kingdom  of  heaven 
was  like  a  net  that  was  cast  into  the  sea;  it  gathered  of  all  kinds,  some 
good,  some  bad,  some  neither  good  nor  bad,  and  they  had  to  be  sorted. 

The  Lord  also  said  in  this  preface,  that  this  is  the  only  church  upon 
the  face  of  the  earth  with  which  he  is  pleased.  Let  me  give  his  exact 
words : 

And  also  those  to  whom  these  commandments  were  given,  might  have 
power  to  lay  the  foundation  of  this  church,  and  to  bring  it  forth  out  of 
obscurity  and  out  of  darkness,  the  only  true  and  living  church  upon  the 
face  of  the  whole  earth,  with  which  I,  the  Lord,  am  well  pleased,  speak- 
ing unto  the  church  collectively  and  not  individually. 

I  say  if  the  Lord  had  to  make  such  a  statement  as  that  in  1831,  how 
much  more  necessary  would  it  be  today  ?  He  would  have  to  say  that  this 
Church  is  the  only  church  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  with  which  he  is 
pleased  (because  it  is  his  Church ;  he  organized  it ;  but  he  would  also  have 
to  say  he  is  speaking  collectively  and  not  individually,  simply  because  there 
are  so  many  professing  membership  in  this  Church,  who  are  not  abiding 
in  the  laws  and  the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel,  nor  are  they  true  to  the 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


covenants  and  the  obligations  that  they  have  taken  upon  themselves,  to 
keep  his  commandments. 

I  want  to  read  to  you  another  passage  of  scripture.  This  was  given 
in  the  year  1833,  after  trouble  had  come  upon  our  people,  and  they  had 
been  driven  from  their  homes,  because  they  had  failed  to  keep  the  com- 
mandments : 

ZION  TO  REJOICE 

Therefore,  verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord,  let  Zion  rejoice,  for  this  is  Zion, 
the  pure  in  heart;  therefore,  let  Zion  rejoice,  while  all  the  wicked  shall 
mourn. 

For  behold,  and  lo,  vengeance  cometh  speedily  upon  the  ungodly,  as  the 
whirlwind;  and  who  shall  escape  it? 

The  Lord's  scourge  shall  pass  over  by  night  and  by  day,  and  the  report 
thereof  shall  vex  all  people ;  yea,  it  shall  not  be  stayed  until  the  Lord  come. 

Therefore  I  can  say  there  shall  be  no  peace  come  to  this  world  until 
Christ  comes  to  bring  it. 

For  the  indignation  of  the  Lord  is  kindled  against  their  abominations 
and  all  their  wicked  works. 

Nevertheless,  Zion  shall  escape  if  she  observe  to  do  all  things  what- 
soever I  have  commanded  her. 

But  if  she  observe  not  to  do  whatsoever  I  have  commanded  her,  I  will 
visit  her  according  to  her  works,  with  sore  affliction,  with  pestilence,  with 
plague,  with  the  sword,  with  vengeance,  with  devouring  fire. 

Nevertheless,  let  it  be  read  this  once  to  her  ears,  that  I,  the  Lord,  have 
accepted  of  her  offering ;  and  if  she  sin  no  more  none  of  these  things  shall 
come  upon  her. 

JUDGMENTS  COMING  UPON  THE  WORLD 

As  I  observe  conditions  among  the  people  I  cannot  see  how  we  are 
going  to  escape  when  the  judgments  are  to  pass  over  the  nations,  which 
are  promised  in  this  revelation  and  in  others  which  I  cannot  take  time  to 
read.  Because  of  our  disobedience  and  our  failure  to  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord,  the  righteous,  as  in  times  past,  may  be  called 
upon  to  suffer  with  the  unrighteous  among  us. 

So  I  rejoiced  in  having  the  voice  of  warning  raised.  Are  we  keeping 
the  Sabbath  day  holy,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  when  the  picture  shows  are 
filled  every  afternoon  and  evening,  and  that,  too,  in  communities  of 
Latter-day  Saints ;  when  the  pleasure  resorts  are  crowded  on  the  Sabbath 
day ;  when  we  turn  our  attention  to  pleasure  rather  than  to  the  worship  of 
God  ?  Do  we  have  a  claim  upon  his  blessings,  and  are  we  entitled  to  have 
the  angels  of  destruction  pass  us  by,  according  to  the  promise  that  is 
given  here,  if  we  will  keep  the  commandments  of  God  ?  Are  we  doing  it  ? 

FAULT-FINDING 

Are  we  guilty  of  finding  fault  with  those  who  preside  over  us  ?  Are 
we  willing  to  listen  to  the  counsels  that  they  give  to  us,  and  receive  the 
voice  of  God  as  it  comes  through  the  one  who  stands  to  represent  him  as 
his  mouthpiece  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  ?   How  many  of  us  are  willing 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


61 


to  do  that  ?  We  stood  upon  our  feet  here  this  morning  and  sang :  "We 
thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet,"  and  yet  there  are  some  among  us 
who  criticise  him,  who  find  fault  with  him.  When  he  speaks  by  the  power 
of  the  inspiration  of  Almighty  God,  we  are  ready  to  condemn  him,  as 
we  have  done  in  times  past. 

Do  you  think,  under  these  conditions,  that  we  are  prepared  to  escape 
from  these  penalties  here  enumerated  in  this  revelation,  given  on  the 
2nd  day  of  August  in  the  year  1833,  a  month  after  our  people  had  been 
driven  from  their  homes  for  violating  the  commandments  which  they 
solemnly  had  promised  they  would  keep  ? 

I  want  to  raise  the  warning  voice,  and  I  am  doing  it  among  the 
stakes  of  Zion,  as  you  happen  to  know.  I  want  to  cry  repentance.  Are 
we  keeping  ourselves  clean  and  pure  and  unspotted  from  the  sins  of 
the  world,  and  are  we  entitled  to  receive  the  blessings? 

PREDICTIONS  BEING  FULFILLED 

I  want  to  tell  you  the  judgments  have  gone  forth  and  they  are 
going  forth.  All  these  strikes  that  are  taking  place,  this  commotion,  this 
unrest,  this  dissatisfaction,  this  desire  on  the  part  of  people  to  overthrow 
governments — and  that  is  going  to  come,  for  hasn't  the  Lord  said  that  he 
will  make  an  end  of  all  nations?  Is  it  not  so  recorded  in  these  revela- 
tions? And  so  it  must  be.  The  angels  of  destruction  have  gone  forth 
upon  their  mission. 

WARNING  OF  PRESIDENT  WOODRUFF 

Permit  me  to  read  a  few  words  from  President  Wilf ord  Woodruff. 
This  seemed  to  be  the  burden  of  his  message  from  the  time  of  the  dedica- 
tion of  the  Salt  Lake  Temple  until  his  death,  for  he  repeated  it  time  and 
time  again,  and  I  heard  him : 

What  are  the  signs  of  the  times?  Do  the  Latter-day  Saints  compre- 
hend them?  This  is  a  fast  age.  The  Lord  is  going  to  cut  his  work  short 
in  righteousness.  Read  these  revelations,  for  they  contain  the  history  of 
what  is  coming  to  pass  in  the  earth. 

That  is,  these  revelations  out  of  which  I  have  been  reading. 

The  Lord  said  to  Joseph  Smith  in  the  beginning  of  this  church — 

Then  President  Woodruff  read  from  Section  86  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  verses  5  to  7,  in  regard  to  the  wheat  and  the  tares.  You 
know  in  that  revelation  the  angels  cried  to  the  Lord  that  they  might  go 
forth  and  reap  down  the  earth.  After  reading  that  passage  President 
Woodruff  said : 

What  is  the  matter  with  this  world  today?  What  has  created  this 
change  that  we  see  coming  over  the  world  ?  Why  these  terrible  judgments  ? 
What  is  the  meaning  of  all  these  mighty  events  that  are  taking  place? 
The  meaning  is,  these  angels  that  have  been  held  for  many  years  in  the 
temple  of  our  God  have  got  their  liberty  to  go  out  and  commence  their 
mission  and  their  work  in  the  earth,  and  they  are  here  today  in  the  earth. 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

I  feel  in  saying  this  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  there  is  a  meaning  in  these 
judgments.  The  word  of  the  Lord  cannot  fall  unfulfilled.  If  you  want 
to  know  what  is  coming  to  pass,  read  the  revelation  of  St.  John.  Read  the 
Book  of  Mormon  and  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  These  things  are  at 
our  doors.  What  is  the  matter  with  this  nation, — thousands  of  men 
striking,  mobs  raising  up  and  destroying  property ;  tribulation  prevailing ! 

I  want  to  say  that  you  will  all  find,  before  you  are  many  years  older, 
that  Utah  is  a  pretty  good  place  to  live  in. 

Now,  I  can't  take  time  to  read  more  of  it,  but  he  raised  this  warning 
voice,  and  I  believe  Utah  .will  be  a  pretty  good  place  to  live  in,  and  other 
stakes  of  Zion,  for  I  don't  believe  President  Woodruff  intended  to  con- 
fine this  to  the  borders  of  Utah,  but  to  the  stakes  of  Zion.  But  the 
judgments  of  the  Almighty  are  being  poured  out,  and  they  shall  con- 
tinue, for  the  Prophet  of  God  has  said  it.  We  shall  not  escape,  unless 
we  repent,  turn  to  the  Lord,  honor  our  Priesthood  and  our  membership 
in  this  Church,  and  be  true  and  faithful  to  our  covenants,  which  I  pray 
we  may  be,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn  "Praise  to  the  Man  who  Communed 
with  Jehovah." 

Elder  J.  Frank  Killian,  President  of  the  Emery  Stake,  offered  the 
benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  Monday  afternoon 
at  2  o'clock. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

Elder  Joseph  B.  Harris,  President  of  the  San  Juan  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

A  vocal  duet,  "I  am  Sure  I  Shall  not  Pass  this  Way  Again,"  was  sung 
by  Sisters  Ruth  Jensen  Clawson  and  Alice  Jensen  'Holbrook. 

ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

It  is  a  great  pleasure,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  meet  again  with  you 
in  a  General  Conference  of  the  Church.  I  feel  sure  that  our  prayers 
have  been  answered,  for  have  we  not  asked  our  Father  in  heaven 
to  enable  our  leaders  to  give  unto  us  that  which  would  mark  clearly  the 
way  in  which  we  should  go? 

As  I  listened  to  President  Grant  yesterday  morning,  when  he  spoke 
on  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  I  could  not  help  but  feel  that  I  hoped  the  Lord 
would  give  him  a  desire  to  preach  on  that  principle  of  the  Gospel  as  long 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


63 


as  he  lived,  and  when  he  is  no  longer  with  us,  that  the  Lord  would  raise 
up  another  who  could  preach  on  it  with  the  same  power  that  he  does. 

I  believe  that  when  the  Lord  announced  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
that  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder  was  about  to  come  forth  among 
the  children  of  men,  that  work  was  to  include  many  important  things, 
one  of  which  I  think  is  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  I  believe  that  in  that 
alone  we  shall  always  stand  out  as  distinguished  from  all  other  religious 
denominations  in  the  world.  While  today  men  are  talking  of  uniting 
the  churches,  they  never  will  want  to  unite  with  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  as  long  as  we  are  true  to  that  great  principle. 

Speaking  of  the  marvelous  work  and  wonder  that  was  to  come 
forth,  in  our  mission  we  try  to  help  the  missionaries  to  grasp  the  truth 
of  that  statement,  and  to  interpret  the  Gospel  in  terms  of  a  marvelous 
work.  Referring,  for  instance,  to  the  Book  of  Mormon,  great  stress  is 
laid  upon  the  value  of  that  book  as  the  most  tangible  evidence  of  the  divine 
mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Sometimes  it  seems  rather  in- 
significant, when  you  take  the  Book  in  your  hand,  to  think  of  offering 
it  for  fifty  cents  to  the  people  you  meet.  Then,  when  you  stop  to 
analyze  what  it  really  is,  in  and  of  itself,  it  is  a  marvelous  work  and 
a  wonder. 

I  read  an  article  in  a  newspaper  recently  on  a  visit  to  this  land  of 
the  United  States  by  Dr.  William  A.  Kennedy,  of  Lima,  Peru.  He  was 
here  in  the  interest  of  securing  financial  support  for  the  establishment 
of  a  university  there  to  investigate  and  make  research  into  the  early 
civilization  of  the  Americas,  particularly  dealing  with  the  civilization 
of  the  Incas  and  the  Mayas,  and  President  Herbert  Hoover 
had  been  asked  to  serve  as  one  of  the  directors  in  this  school,  for  which 
I  understand  a  franchise  has  already  been  issued. 

The  paper  reported  that  he  had  been  assured  of  an  endowment  of 
$30,000,000,  which  amount  would  be  increased  to  sixty  or  seventy  mil- 
lion dollars  within  the  next  ten  years  . 

Now,  think  of  that !  The  value  of  the  history  of  the  early  in- 
habitants of  this  land  is  considered  to  be  worth  at  least  $70,000,000,  and 
we  offer  them  more  than  they  will  ever  know,  after  all  their  research, 
for  the  price  of  fifty  cents !  After  they  have  searched  all  the  archives 
and  the  discoveries  of  men,  then  they  will  only  have  a  dead  record. 
It  will  speak  only  of  the  past.  Whereas  the  Book  of  Mormon  does 
not  only  tell  of  past  civilizations,  but  it  declares  in  most  emphatic  terms 
the  ultimate  destiny  of  this  great  land.  Who  can  read  the  words  of  the 
prophets,  and  not  know  that,  from  the  time  when  God  first  led  his  chil- 
dren here,  after  the  destruction  of  the  Tower  of  Babel,  he  designated 
this  land  as  a  choice  land,  choice  above  all  other  lands,  and  from  that 
time  until  this  it  has  been  preserved  as  in  the  hollow  of  his  hand,  to  serve 
some  great  destiny. 

Read  the  words  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  declaring  that  upon 
this  land  the  New  Jerusalem  of  the  Lord,  our  God,  shall  be  builded, 
which  shall  ultimately  be  taken  to  heaven  and  again  return  when  the 
earth  is  purified.   Read  the  promise  contained  in  that  Book,  that  Jesus 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Christ  is  the  God  of  this  land  and  the  king  thereof ;  that  every  nation  that 
shall  lift  its  hand  against  this  land  shall  perish,  "For  I,  the  Lord,  the  king 
of  heaven,  will  be  their  king."  I  wonder  what  the  nations  of  this  world 
would  think  if  they  knew  that  the  God  of  heaven  had  decreed  that  he 
would  fortify  this  land  against  all  other  nations. 

When  we  stop  to  analyze  and  think  what  the  Book  of  Mormon 
contains,  in  addition  to  what  might  be  discovered  through  the  expendi- 
ture of  this  $70,000,000,  is  not  this  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder  ?  I 
would  like  every  missionary  in  our  mission  to  feel  when  he  approaches  a 
home,  offering  a  Book  of  Mormon,  that  he  is  offering  something  that  is 
worth  more  than  all  the  gold  and  silver  of  this  world.  If  they  read 
it  and  are  touched  by  the  divine  spirit  contained  in  its  pages,  they  certainly 
cannot  help  but  believe  it. 

Years  ago,  when  I  was  doing  short-term  missionary  work  in  the 
Eastern  States,  we  were  out  on  the  street  corner  one  night,  and  a  young 
missionary  said  to  me,  following  the  meeting:  "Brother  Richards,  I 
don't  know  the  Gospel  is  true."  I  said:  "You  don't?"  and  he  said 
"No."  I  said:  "You  take  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  go  home  and  read 
it,  and  don't  you  quit  reading  it  until  you  know  the-  Gospel  is  true." 
We  went  out  on  the  street  about  two  weeks  later  and  he  stood  up  in  his 
turn  and  said:  "If  the  Book  of  Mormon  isn't  true,  you  tell  me  how 
Joseph  Smith  knew  that  those  cities  were  buried  in  the  depths  of  the  earth 
out  in  Central  and  South  America."  When  he  was  through  I  patted  him 
on  the  back  and  said :    "It  works,  doesn't  it  ?" 

When  I  was  in  Holland  a  sister  came  to  me  whose  love  for  the  truth 
had  been  somewhat  disaffected,  even  though  she  had  been  a  former 
worker  in  the  Church,  but  through  jealousy  she  had  become  lukewarm. 
Following  a  very  inspirational  meeting  she  said:  "Brother  Richards, 
tell  me  how  I  can  get  my  testimony  back."  "Well,"  I  said,  "I  will  tell 
you  if  you  will  follow  my  instruction,"  and  she  said  she  would.  I  said : 
"When  you  can  put  all  malice  out  of  your  heart,  you  go  in  to  your  own 
secret  chamber  and  ask  the  Lord  to  reveal  unto  you  the  truth  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  and  then  you  read  it  chapter  by  chapter."  She  said : 
"I  don't  need  to  do  that.  I  already  know  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true." 
"Then,"  I  said,  "you  know  all  the  rest  of  the  story  that  goes  with  it." 

Now,  I  am  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  in  the  analysis 
of  every  phase  of  our  work,  to  me  it  is  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder. 

A  young  man  arrived  in  the  mission  field  a  few  months  ago.  He 
had  had  two  years  of  college  work.  He  said  that  he  had  received  his  call 
two  years  ago,  but  it  took  him  that  long  to  make  up  his  mind  to  accept  it. 
He  said :  "You  know,  I  am  a  very  practical  man.  I  like  to  be  able  to 
go  out  in  the  orchard  and  pick  the  pears  and  eat  them,  and  then  I  know 
it  is  a  pear  tree."  When  he  was  through  I  said :  "Now,  my  boy,  I  want 
to  tell  you  that  pears  grow  on  our  tree  too.  Here  is  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
With  your  analytical  mind  you  take  the  little  book,  the  "Seven  Claims  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon,"  prepared  by  Dr.  Widtsoe  and  Dr.  Harris,  and 
when  you  have  analyzed  those  claims  and  the  Book  of  Mormon,  you  come 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS  65 

back  and  tell  me  if  there  isn't  just  as  tangible  proof  that  that  Book  is  true 
as  the  eating  of  a  pear  is  that  the  tree  is  a  pear  tree." 

I  met  him  out  in  his  district  about  six  weeks  later  and  he  gave  a  fine 
testimony.  I  put  my  arm  around  him,  and  said :  "Have  you  found  any 
pears  on  the  tree ?"  He  said:  "Oh,  forget  it,  Brother  Richards." 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  I  thank 
the  Lord  for  my  membership  in  this  Church ;  and  I  thank  him  for  every 
opportunity  of  service  that  has  come  to  me.  I  am  on  my  fourth  mission. 
I  have  presided  twice  as  a  bishop,  once  as  president  of  a  stake,  served 
on  two  high  councils,  and  I  want  to  testify  to  yOu  that  the  Lord  or  this 
Church  owes  me  nothing.  I  have  been  repaid  a  thousand  fold  for  all  I 
have  ever  done  for  the  Church,  and  I  hope  I  shall  never  falter. 

God  bless  you  all,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  pray  that  while  I  stand  before  you  my 
remarks  may  be  guided  by  the  Spirit  of  God  in  whose  name  this  Con- 
ference is  conducted. 

I  have  listened  with  a  great  deal  of  interest  to  the  statistical  summary 
of  the  condition  of  the  Church,  the  admonitions  and  the  suggestions 
made  by  the  brethren  during  these  two  days  of  conference.  I  have  tried 
to  probe  into  the  heart  of  that  which  has  been  said  to  discover  what 
I  should  say  to  fit  in  with  that  which  has  been  said. 

PROGRESS  BRINGS  RESPONSIBILITY 

Many  thoughts  have  come  to  me, — first  and  foremost  a  sense  of 
gratitude  for  the  progress  of  the  Church,  and  secondly,  a  sense  of  the 
responsibility  that  rests  upon  every  person  who  receives  great  favors. 
As  I  have  thought  these  things  over  one  thought  has  come  to  me  more 
than  any  other — it  has  presented  itself  over  and  over  again — an  old 
and  simple  thought,  one  familiar  to  every  Latter-day  Saint  and  to 
every  God-fearing  man  upon  earth.  I  would  like  to  present  that  to  you 
even  though  it  be  elementary  in  its  nature. 

As  a  young  man,  when  I  began  my  training  for  my  life's  work,  I 
dipped  into  science  and  history,  and  gave  attention  also,  I  am  grateful  to 
say,  to  the  restored  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  was  thrilled 
by  the  thought  that  I  belonged  to  an  advancing  day,  that  the  day  to  which 
I  belonged  was  not  as  yesterday,  but  was  moving  onward ;  throughout  my 
life  I  have  gloried  in  and  thrilled  to  the  thought  that  I  live  in  an  ad- 
vancing day  and  age  in  the  history  of  the  world. 

PERMANENCE  ENCOMPASSES  EARTH'S  CHANGES 

Of  late,  however,  within  the  last  few  years  at  the  most,  I  find  that 
we  no  longer  speak  of  an  advancing  day.  We  speak  now  of  a  changing 
day.    This  has  greatly  disturbed  me  because  change  Is  not  necessarily 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


advancement.  I  must  know  in  what  direction  change  takes  place.  If  I 
live  in  an  advancing  day,  then  I  know  the  change  is  one  that  I  may 
favor  and  to  which  I  may  cling.  But  unless  I  am  certain  of  the  direction 
of  change,  I  hesitate  to  accept  it. 

We  do  live  in  a  changing  day.  There  is  no  question  about  that.  We 
have  the  steamboat,  the  railroad;  electricity  with  all  its  wonders;  the 
radio,  magnifying  my  voice  at  the  present  moment ;  we  have  a  thousand 
other  wonders  which  have  changed  the  older  day.  But,  I  cannot  believe 
that  these  changes  represent  anything  of  real,  fundamental  importance 
to  me  as  a  son  of  God.  I  cannot  help  but  believe  that  the  elementary, 
the  eternal,  the  fundamental  things  are  just  as  they  were  thousands  of 
years  ago. 

This  is  not  a  changing  world  in  the  last  analysis.  This  is  a  per- 
manent world.  Change,  at  the  best,  is  but  a  play  upon  permanent,  un- 
changeable, eternal  principles.  It  cannot  be  otherwise.  The  mountains 
may  be  worn  down;  they  have  been  worn  down;  the  high  mountain 
may  be  reduced  to  a  valley — but  that  which  made  up  the  mountain 
still  exists.  The  particles,  the  elements,  are  but  used  in  some  other  day 
for  the  furtherance  of  the  great  purpose  back  of  all  existence. 

DESIRABILITY  OF  PERMANENCE  AND  PROGRESS 

There  is  no  change  of  value  to  us,  unless  it  be  upward,  onward, 
forward,  advancing.  That  is  the  thought  that  has  been  with  me  these 
two  days.  If  any  principle  or  change  is  connected  with  and  uses  eternal 
principles  then  it  becomes  progress.  If  it  is  not  attached  to  such  eternal, 
unyielding  principles,  it  may  be  nothing  more  than  chaos.  I  must  search 
out  for  myself  these  eternal  principles  and  by  their  use  make  this  day 
one  of  permanence  and  progress.  My  message  to  the  Latter-day  Saints 
on  this  occasion  is  that  we  would  do  better  not  to  speak  so  much  about 
the  changing  day  but  say  more  about  the  day  of  permanence, — the  day 
which  has  existed  from  the  beginning  in  the  mind  of  the  Almighty  who 
is  the  same  yesterday,  today  and  forever. 

"TO  YOUR  FIRST  PRINCIPLES,  O  ISRAEL" 

.  I  think  that  my  friend  had  that  in  mind  when  I  met  him  on  the 
street  the  other  day.  He  said  to  me,  "We  would  better  get  back  to  first 
principles."  I  remembered  then  an  old  slogan,  an  old  battle  cry  handed 
down  from  the  days  of  Israel  "To  your  tents,  O  Israel,"  said  the 
Prophet  of  old,  and  all  Israel  went  to  their  tents  and  carried  on  in  new 
and  better  ways. 

The  Prophet  Brigham  Young  made  the  same  statement  when  he 
began  the  exodus  into  the  West,  "To  your  tents,  O  Israel."  And  today, 
"To  your  first  principles,  O  Israel,"  should  be  our  battle  cry.  We 
need  not  make  a  slogan  of  the  minor  things  that  sometimes  disturb  us  and 
blind  our  vision. 

You  would  like  to  ask  me  as  I  speak  on  this  subject  if  there  are 
any  principles  of  conduct  to  which  we  may  cling  with  certainty.  We 
have  many.   There  is  the  code  for  human  conduct  given  thousands  of 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


67 


years  ago  known  as  the  "Ten  Commandments."  These  were  given  to  the 
Prophet  Moses  amid  the  thunderings  and  lightnings  of  Sinai — a  code 
which  I  am  fully  convinced  was  known  to  our  Father  Adam.  I  know 
that  some  people  in  our  day  say  that  "The  Ten  Commandments  belong 
to  a  by-gone  day,  to  a  horse  and  buggy  day."  That  I  do  not  believe. 
To  love  God,  to  be  kind,  to  be  merciful,  are  as  safe  guides  for  human 
conduct  today  as  they  ever  have  been.  We  shall  never  out-live  the 
eternal  principles  contained  in  the  Ten  Commandments.  I  have  the 
feeling  that  if  this  people  and  the  world  at  large  would  read  and  re-read, 
would  practice  and  practice  again,  the  simple  commandments  given  on 
Sinai,  we  would  solve  many  of  the  problems  that  disturb  us  today.  It 
seems  an  intellectual  folly  or  a  mental  aberration  for  men  to  disobey 
these  fundamental  invariable  principles,  commandments  of  God,  and 
then  attempt  to  solve  the  larger  and  more  difficult  problems  of  human 
existence. 

"Thou  shalt  not  kill.  Thou  shalt  not  lie.  Thou  shalt  not  steal." 
Do  we  kill,  in  this  age  ?  Do  we  lie,  in  this  age  ?  Do  we  steal,  in  this  age  ? 
Suppose  we  search  our  own  hearts !  Suppose  this  nation  search  its  great 
heart  to  discover  if  these  simple  commandments  are  being  obeyed.  Do 
we  return  the  dollar  we  find  on  the  street  when  we  know  the  owner  ?  Do 
we  use  the  law  as  a  shield  to  defraud  the  widow,  and  call  it  business  ?  I 
would  like  to  put  questions  like  these  to  my  brethren  and  sisters  who 
are  before  me  and  to  all  the  Church.  These  are  fundamental  questions. 
Until  we  learn  to  speak  the  truth,  to  be  honest,  there  will  be  no  safety 
in  the  world.  There  can  only  be  chaos  and  commotion  and  blood-shed 
and  wars.  We  do  not  need  to  read  books  of  philosophy  to  solve  the 
problems  of  this  day.  The  principles  we  need  to  follow  have  been  given 
us  throughout  the  ages  by  the  Lord  from  our  Father  Adam  until  the 
-  present  day. 

OBSERVANCE  OF  TEN  COMMANDMENTS  A  PRESENT-DAY  OBLIGATION 

As  I  have  said  some  people  hold  that  the  Ten  Commandments  belong 
to  a  by-gone  age.  That  cannot  be  so  for  I  remember  that  the  Lord 
in  this  generation  reiterated  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  the  principles 
that  are  found  in  the  Ten  Commandments,  and  the  Lord  in  this  day 
added  something  to  the  Ten  Commandments  as  reported  by  Moses ;  and 
he  made  them  more  emphatic,  for  he  said  not  only  "Thou  shalt  not 
steal ;  thou  shalt  not  lie ;"  but  added,  that  "he  who  steals  or  lies  shall  be 
cast  out  unless  he  repents." 

I  feel  deeply  on  this  matter,  my  dear  brethren  and  sisters.  It  grieves 
me  that  I  am  not  able  to  hang  my  overcoat  in  a  public  corridor  for  a  half 
hour  and  then  reasonably  expect  to  find  it  again.  It  grieves  me  to  know 
I  cannot  trust  the  people  of  my  generation,  my  fellow  men ;  that  they 
are  directed  by  selfish  motives  to  the  extent  of  telling  untruths. 

I  would  like  to  say  also,  that  that  which  we  do  in  opposition  to  the 
simple  commandments  of  God,  so  often  forgotten,  changes  and  injures 
the  very  being  of  a  man.  The  body  is  changed  as  well  as  the  mind  and 
soul,  by  that  which  we  do.   It  is  now  a  finding  of  modern  science  that 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


prayer  itself  and  the  life  of  truth  influences  definitely  and  favorably  the 
body  itself,  nerves,  blood,  the  muscles,  every  part  of  us,  physically,  as  well 
as  mentally  and  spiritually.  We  are  touched  and  changed  by  that  which 
we  do,  for  good  or  evil.  The  dishonest  man  corrupts  his  body ;  the  honest 
man  makes  it  grow  into  greater  strength  and  power.  Therefore  it  is 
not  a  little  thing  to  keep  the  eternal  commandments  given  for  our  guid- 
ance in  life.   We  reap  our  reward  as  we  go  along  life's  pathway. 

SECURITY  IN  OBEDIENCE 

We  have  many  speakers  and  little  time.  I  bear  my  testimony  to  the 
virtue  and  value  of  obedience  to  the  simple  commandments  of  Almighty 
God,  those  contained  in  the  Ten  Commandments,  in  the  Beatitudes,  in 
the  messages  that  come  to  us  from  time  to  time  from  the  inspired 
leaders  of  the  Church  who  have  spoken  to  us  during  this  Conference. 

I  bear  witness  to  you  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God.  We  are 
engaged  in  his  work.  Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet  of  God,  called  in  this 
day  and  generation  to  establish  the  work  of  God.  We  are  traveling 
on  safe  ground,  for  Revelation  is  the  rock  and  foundation  of  the  work. 
I  rejoice  in  my  possession  of  this  testimony,  and  I  pray  that  it  may  grow 
within  my  heart,  and  within  the  heart  of  every  Latter-day  Saint,  and  I 
do  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Only  a  few  days  ago  there  was  being  commemorated  the  greatest 
event  of  human  history,  namely,  the  resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ,  our 
Lord,  which  only  a  few  days  earlier  was  preceded  by  its  companion  event, 
namely,  his  crucifixion. 

This  year,  as  well  as  in  years  gone  by,  many  prominent  speakers  have 
so  ably  discussed  these  important  and  hope-inspiring  events  that  it  may 
seem  rather  presumptuous,  on  my  part,  that  I  should  undertake  to  make 
further  comment,  and  yet  there  are  a  few  features  which  I  would  like  to 
emphasize  in  which  there  appears  to  be  a  variety  of  conflicting  views,  and 
which,  if  the  Lorad  will  guide  me  by  his  Holy  Spirit,  I  shall  endeavor  in 
part,  at  least,  to  clarify.  In  doing  this  I  shall  give  heed  "to  the  more  sure 
word  of  prophecy" ;  nor  shall  I  deviate  therefrom,  nor  yet  attempt  any 
private  interpretation  of  my  own. 

These  two  wonderful  events  must  be  considered  jointly  if  we  are  to 
understand  their  real  meaning.  They  represent  the  burning  questions 
of  life  and  death ;  not  only  for  Christ,  our  Lord,  but  for  all  mankind. 

Let  us  first  consider  the  crucifixion : 

The  crucifixion  represents  death,  and  suffering,  or  punishment  for 
sin.  We  cannot  appreciate  the  enormity  of  that  suffering — that  punish- 
ment for  sin,  which  Christ  endured  in  the  garden  of  Gethsemane  and  upon 
the  cross.  "But,"  says  one,  "Christ  did  not  sin."  Very  true,  and  yet  he 
suffered  for  sin,  not  his  own  sin,  for  he  had  none ;  but  Christ  suffered  for 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


69 


sins,  the  just  for  the  unjust  that  he  might  bring  us  to  God.  (I  Peter  3 :18.) 
This  intense  pain  and  unbearable  agony  of  his  suffering  we  may  not  know, 
and  yet  he,  even  the  Son  of  God,  suffered  these  things,  which  suffering 
both  in  body  and  spirit,  caused  him  to  tremble  with  pain  and  bleed  at 
every  pore,  even  causing  him  to  pray,  saying,  "O  my  Father,  if  it  be 
possible,  let  this  cup  pass  from  me ;  nevertheless  not  as  I  will  but  as  thou 
wilt."  But  this  had  been  ordained  of  God  in  order  to  satisfy  eternal 
justice,  and  so,  we  read — ■ 

For  behold,  I,  God,  have  suffered  these  things  for  all,  that  they  might 
not  suffer  if  they  would  repent; 

But  if  they  would  not  repent  they  must  suffer  even  as  I.  (D.  and  C, 
19:16-17.) 

And  again : 

Except  ye  repent,  ye  shall  all  likewise  perish.    (Luke  13 :3.) 

Was  this  death  and  all  this  suffering  for  Adam's  transgression  only  ? 
No,  not  by  any  means.  The  penalty  attached  to  Adam's  action  was  death, 
not  only  for  himself,  but  for  all  his  posterity,  and  again,  not  only  was  it 
the  temporal  death,  or  death  of  the  body,  but  also  spiritual  death,  which  is 
banishment  from  the  presence  of  God.  And  thus  Adam  and  all  his 
descendants  would  have  been  eternally  lost  unless  some  plan  had  been 
provided  for  their  redemption. 

Adam  and  Eve  transgressed  the  law  under  which  they  lived  in  the 
Garden  of  Eden.  The  Lord  said  to  them : 

Of  every  tree  of  the  garden  thou  mayest  freely  eat. 

But  of  the  tree  of  the  knowledge  of  good  and  evil,  thou  shalt  not  eat 
of  it,  nevertheless,  thou  mayest  choose  for  thyself,  for  it  is  given  unto  thee ; 
but,  remember  that  I  forbid  it,  for  in  the  day  thou  eatest  thereof  thou 
shalt  surely  die. 

While  the  Lord  forbade  it,  as  we  see,  yet  it  was  a  part  of  the  great 
plan  of  salvation,  essential  to  the  salvation  of  man,  and  we  speak  of  it  as  a 
transgression  of  the  law  of  heaven  that  mortality  might  be  granted  unto 
man.  The  will  of  the  Lord  is  done  in  heaven.  Why  did  the  Savior  teach 
us  to  pray:  "Thy  kingdom  come,  thy  will  be  done  in  earth  as  it  is  in 
heaven" ? 

Obedience  to  the  will  of  God  is  the  law  of  heaven — a  necessary  con- 
dition. Any  deviation  from  his  will  would  create  confusion,  disorder  and 
disaster,  and  heaven  would  not  be  heaven  if  his  will  did  not  prevail.  In 
this  great  sidereal  universe  there  is  an  equilibrium  maintained  and  upheld 
by  the  laws  of  God  who  created  it ;  let  one  of  those  laws,  or  forces  of 
nature,  as  some  are  inclined  to  call  them,  either  centripetal  or  centrifugal 
forces,  be  suspended  even  for  a  day,  and  this  universe  would  suffer  crash 
in  violent  collisions,  or  disintegrate  by  its  members  flying  off  into  an  end- 
less space  never  again  to  return.  The  equilibrium  of  heaven  must  also 
be  maintained  and  upheld  by  strict  obedience  to  the  will  of  God. 

Adam  and  Eve  hearkened  to  the  devil  and  hence  were  cast  out  of 
Eden,  which  was  paradise.  But,  shall  we  suffer  for  Adam's  transgres- 
sion ?  In  answer  let  me  quote  the  second  Article  of  our  Faith : 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


'We  believe  that  men  will  be  punished  for  their  own  sins,  and  not  for 
Adam's  transgression. 

But,  is  there  no  escape  from  this  suffering — this  punishment  for 
individual  sin?    Yes,  if  we  will  repent. 
Now,  let  us  consider  the  resurrection. 

The  resurrection  from  the  dead  is  the  redemption  of  the  soul.  (D. 
and  C.  88:16.) 

Redeemed  from  what?  Redeemed  from  death  and  the  grave.  "O 
death  where  is  thy  sting  ?  O  grave  where  is  thy  victory  ?"  This  is  what 
the  resurrection  of  Christ  means  to  us. 

The  resurrection  then  represents  life,  joy ;  immortality  which  is  uni- 
versal ;  for  all  are  made  alive  again ;  and  eternal  life  in  the  presence  of 
God,  which  comes  only  to  those  who  repent,  and  for  all  such  there  is  no 
more  suffering,  no  more  punishment  for  sin,  for  Christ  suffered  for  all 
who  would  repent,  but  if  they  would  not  repent  then  shall  they  suffer 
for  their  own  sins  even  as  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  suffered.  They  will  have 
to  pay  the  penalty  themselves,  being  cast  down  to  hell  to  endure  the 
punishment  which  comes  to  those  who  will  not  repent,  even  though 
their  punishment  should  last  for  a  thousand  years.  (D.  and  C.  76 :84,  85.) 

How  beautifully  these  two  events  are  symbolized  in  the  ordinance  of 
baptism.  The  Apostle  Paul  had  a  very  clear  understanding  of  it  as  shown 
in  his  epistle  to  the  Romans : 

Know  ye  not,  that  so  many  of  us  as  were  baptized  into  Jesus  Christ 
were  baptized  into  his  death? 

Therefore  we  are  buried  with  him  by  baptism  into  death:  that  like  as 
Christ  was  raised  up  from  the  dead  by  the  glory  of  the  Father,  even  so  we 
also  should  walk  in  newness  of  life. 

For  if  we  have  been  planted  together  in  the  likeness  of  his  death,  we 
shall  be  also  in  the  likeness  of  his  resurrection.   (Romans  6:3,  4,  5.) 

How  completely  then  are  the  crucifixion  and  the  resurrection  of  our 
Lord,  these  two  historic  events — the  greatest  events  of  human  history — 
how  beautifully  are  they  symbolized  in  the  holy  ordinance  of  baptism  by 
immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins.  And  what  an  unjustifiable  change 
the  sectarian  world  has  perpetrated  by  substituting  sprinkling  in  lieu  of 
immersion,  thus  destroying  utterly  its  sacred  meaning,  its  beautiful  sym- 
bolism of  the  death  and  burial  of  our  Redeemer  on  the  one  hand  and  on 
the  other  his  glorious  resurrection.  A  base  perversion  of  a  holy  rite 
almost  amounting  to  a  sacrilege. 

All  through  the  history  of  God's  dealings  with  the  children  of  men 
these  two  great  historic  events  have  been  proclaimed  both  in  prophecy  and 
in  symbols  in  order  to  impress  upon  their  hearts  their  only  hope  for  a  life 
beyond  the  grave — the  sacrifice  for  sin,  the  passover,  the  slaying  of-  a 
male  lamb  without  spot  or  blemish,  and  with  its  blood  striking  the  door 
posts  as  a  means  of  saving  the  children  of  Israel  from  the  plague  decreed 
upon  the  first  born  of  the  Egyptians;  Abraham's  offering  of  his  son 
Isaac;  Job's  testimony  of  his  own  resurrection  and  of  his  living  Re- 
deemer. All  these  and  many  more  proclaim  the  supreme  sacrifice  made 
by  Jesus  Christ,  the  Lamb  of  God,  who  was  indeed  without  spot  and 


i 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


71 


without  blemish,  and  who  suffered  for  our  sins — the  sins  of  the  whole 
world  if  they  would  repent. 

These  events  are  also  symbolized  from  the  very  beginning  even  in 
the  Garden  of  Eden.  God  planted  a  garden  in  the  east  of  Eden  with 
trees  that  provided  for  the  bodily  needs  of  Adam  and  Eve  of  which  they 
were  freely  to  partake,  but  in  the  midst  of  the  garden  he  also  planted  the 
tree  of  knowledge  of  good  and  evil  and  forbade  them  from  partaking  of 
its  fruit. 

Also  the  tree  of  life  was  planted  in  the  midst  of  the  garden  just  as 
was  the  tree  of  knowledge  of  good  and  evil,  and  lest  Adam  and  Eve  might 
partake  of  the  fruit  of  this  tree  and  live  forever  in  their  sin  they  were 
cast  out  of  Eden  and  cherubims  with  flaming  swords  were  placed  at  the 
entrance  to  guard  the  way  to  the  tree  of  life.  Thus  it  will  be  seen  how 
these  two  events  are  symbolized  in  the  Garden  of  Eden.  Death  and 
suffering,  or  punishment  for  sin,  symbolizes  the  crucifixion  of  the  Son 
of  God,  and  his  resurrection  is  symbolized  by  the  tree  of  life,  or  in  other 
words,  life  after  death,  which  comes  to  all,  and  also  eternal  life  which, 
however,  is  withheld  from  men  unless  they  shall  repent. 

Now,  let  me  quote  the  third  Article  of  our  Faith : 

We  believe  that  through  the  atonement  of  Christ,  all  mankind  may  be 
saved,  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel. 

What  are  these  laws  and  ordinances  through  obedience  to  which 
all  mankind  may  be  saved?   They  are: 
1st — Faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
2nd — Repentance. 

3rd — Baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins. 

4th — Laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Those  who  have  faith  in  the  Lord  and  repent  of  their  sins  and  who 
render  obedience  to  these  outward  laws  and  ordinances — which,  however, 
must  be  performed  by  one  who  is  commissioned  of  Jesus  Christ  to  per- 
form them — shall  be  saved.  Washed  clean  in  the  blood  of  the  Lamb  of 
God,  the  suffering  of  Christ,  shall  also  secure  to  them  complete  free- 
dom from  all  suffering  or  any  future  punishment  for  sin. 

But,  are  we  not  to  be  judged  according  to  the  deeds  done  in  the 
body?  The  right  answer  to  this  question  is :  "Most  assuredly  yes."  And 
when  we  are  finally  brought  to  judgment  before  the  Great  Judge  the 
books  will  be  opened  wherein  our  works  are  written — our  deeds  both  good 
and  evil — according  to  which  we  shall  be  judged.  It  will  surely  appear 
that  there  are  two  sides  to  our  account — one  for  the  good  and  one  for  the 
evil — the  debit  side  and  the  credit  side.  And,  if  it  shall  be  written  on  the 
credit  side  that  we  have  believed  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  do  now 
believe  in  him ;  that  we  have  truly  repented  of  all  our  sins  and  do  now 
repent  of  them;  if  it  shall  be  recorded  that  we  have  been  baptized  by 
immersion  for  the  remission  of  our  sins  by  one  duly  commissioned  to 
perform  that  sacred  ordinance,  and  that  we  have  received  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  hands  by  one  having  authority  to  bestow 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  blessing,  then  our  account  is  balanced.  Yes,  far  more  than  balanced. 
There  will  be  a  glorious  credit  balance  that  shall  secure  to  us  the  Divine 
approval,  and  another  book  shall  be  opened  which  is  The  Lamb's  Book  of 
Life,  and  our  names  shall  be  entered  therein,  and  we  shall  then  receive 
the  crown  of  Eternal  Life — God's  greatest  gift  to  man — which  he  has 
promised  to  them  who  love  him  and  keep  his  holy  commandments. 

But,  if  when  the  books  are  opened  it  shall  appear  that  we  have 
rejected  the  counsels  of  God  against  ourselves,  and  have  no  such  entries 
on  the  credit  side  of  our  account  because  we  would  not  repent,  the  suffer- 
ing of  our  Lord  will  not  apply  to  us  and  we  shall  be  cast  down  into  hell 
to  suffer  for  ourselves,  and  that  too  until  the  uttermost  farthing  has  been 
paid — until  our  sins  are  purged  away,  even  if  it  takes  a  thousand  years 
and  until  the  day  of  the  Lord,  when  we  shall  have  atoned  for  our  own 
sins,  and  when  that  time  comes  then  shall  the  gates  of  hell  be  burst  asunder 
and  the  captive  shall  be  let  free.  Even  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail 
against  the  Church  of  Christ.  All  mankind  shall  be  saved  in  one  or  an- 
other kingdom.  Even  the  wicked,  after  they  have  paid  the  debt  shall  be 
admitted  into  the  Telestial  Kingdom,  the  glory  of  which  surpasseth  all 
understanding,  but  where  God  and  his  Christ  are  they  shall  never  come, 
worlds  without  end.  Thus  God  has  provided  for  the  salvation  of  all  his 
children  excepting  only  the  sons  of  Perdition,  those  who  shed  innocent 
blood  and  who  deny  the  Son  after  the  Father  has  revealed  him. 

These  are  a  few  of  the  reflections  which  come  to  me  as  we  celebrate 
the  Easter  festival  in  commemoration  of  the  resurrection  of  our  Lord, 
and  in  giving  expression  to  them  I  have  endeavored  to  portray  the  true 
meaning  and  significance  of  these  historic  events  as  I  find  them  recorded 
on  the  pages  of  Holy  Writ.  And,  as  I  reflect  upon  them,  my  heart  is 
filled  with  joy  and  gladness  even  to  overflowing,  and  with  gratitude  and 
praise  to  him,  the  Giver  of  all  good. 

May  the  Lord  add  his  blessings,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  J.  DAYNES 

President  of  the  Western  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the  admonitions,  the  encouragement,  and 
the  advice  given  in  these  sessions  of  Conference  I  feel  will  be  appropriate, 
useful  and  beneficial  to  all  who  accept  of  the  same. 

I  was  impressed  this1  morning  very  much  with  the  warning  given  as 
to  the  conditions  existing  in  the  world,  and  I  am  reminded  of  a  passage 
of  scripture  which  I  should  like  to  read: 

Behold,  the  days  come,  saith  the  Lord  God,  that  I  will  send  a  famine 
in  the  land,  not  a  famine  of  bread  nor  a  thirst  for  water,  but  of  hearing 
the  words  of  the  Lord : 

And  they  shall  wander  from  sea  to  sea,  and  from  north  even  to  the 
east,  they  shall  run  to  and  fro  to  seek  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  shall 
not  find  it. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  J.  DAYNES 


73 


Likewise,  I  read  these  words : 

For  the  Lord  is  not  the  author  of  confusion,  but  of  peace,  as  in  all 
churches  of  the  saints. 

It  is  said  that  a  wise  philosopher  made  this  observation : 

I  have  diligently  searched  the  Heavens  and  nowhere  have  I  found 
God. 

I  think  if  we  look  around  the  world  today  we  will  find  that  confusion 
is  everywhere  to  be  found;  misunderstanding,  misinterpretation,  doubt, 
and  uncertainty  are  all  ever  present.  The  world  is  fraught  with  anxiety. 
We  read  an  article  in  the  paper  the  other  day  concerning  a  condition 
existing  way  off  in  Egypt,  where,  in  a  monastery  of  one  hundred  monks, 
these  monks  went  on  a  sit-down  strike  because  they  wanted  to  go  modern. 

From  Canton,  China,  we  read  an  announcement  that  the  police  raided 
a  southern  province  of  China  known  as  the  "Superstition  Belt,"  and 
confiscated  one  thousand  man-made  gods  in  an  effort  to  stamp  out  idol- 
atry. The  authorities,  fearing  that  wide-spread  opposition  would  follow 
the  drastic  measures  for  the  destruction  of  the  metal  and  clay  images, 
confined  the  images  to  a  god  concentration  camp  where  the  populace 
would  be  able  to  pray  and  burn  incense  to  their  favorite  deity. 

We  read  in  an  Associated  Press  dispatch  from  Chicago  of  a  large 
convention  of  churches  there  advocating  the  unification  of  a  system  that 
would  make  one  church  instead  of  many.  In  fact,  there  were  forty 
different  organizations  represented,  and  the  great  bishop  in  charge  said 
that  he  felt  it  was  time  for  us  to  drop  these  different  theories  and  ideas 
and  be  united  under  one  hew  organization  to  be  called  the  United  Chris- 
tian Advance. 

We  read  of  the  conditions  existing  in  Russia;  that  the  preaching 
of  religion  is  forbidden.  There  are  twenty-five  million  children  of  school 
age  who  have  been  taught  that  there  is  no  God.  The  teachers  are  for- 
bidden to  teach  religion  of  any  kind  in  the  schools,  all  religious  publica- 
tions are  banned,  and  4,200  priests  and  those  in  charge  of  the  churches 
have  been  confined  to  concentration  camps  and  many  have  died  in  ob- 
livion. At  Moscow,  where  there  were  four  hundred  and  fifty-four 
churches  in  existence,  only  some  thirty  now  remain.  Fourteen  thousand 
churches  were  closed  last  year  and  few  are  left  anywhere  throughout 
the  Russian  countries. 

Many  of  these  conditions  that  exist  today,  as  we  know,  have  been 
brought  about  as  a  result  of  confusion  and  misunderstanding  with  refer- 
ence to  religion.  It  is  astonishing  how  men's  ideas  are  warped ;  how  small 
they  become ;  and,  not  being  sensitive  to  the  promptings  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord,  they  do  not  desire  to  have  truth  penetrate  their  souls.  If 
truth  could  make  its  imprint  upon  the  hearts  of  men  as  the  Lord  intended, 
what  a  marvelous  and  wonderful  thing  it  would  be. 

Truth  is  a  virtue  akin  to  the  divine,  "eternal,  unchanged  evermore." 

The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  stands  for  the  highest  in  intellectual 
development.   It  invites  all  men  to  come  from  wherever  they  may  to  join 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  great  pilgrimage  that  will  lead  us  to  our  great  eternal  home.  It  is 
marvelous  when  our  souls  are  touched  with  the  influences  of  the  divine. 
It  enables  us  to  overcome  prejudice  and  bigotry  and  become  mellowed  in 
our  feelings,  thus  permitting  the  influence  of  God  Almighty  to  touch  us. 

I  thank  the  Lord  that  this  Church  is  one  that  has  never  had  to 
change  its  policies,  never  had  to  change  its  creed  or  its  doctrine ;  that  there 
never  has  been  a  period  when  there  has  been  a  decline  in  enthusiasm  or  in 
numbers,  but  that  it  has  grown  year  by  year  since  its  inception  one  hun- 
dred and  seven  years  ago  with  a  very  meager  beginning  of  six  members, 
until  today  approximately  eight  hundred  thousand  are  following  the 
banner  of  Jesus,  the  Christ,  the  crucified  Lord. 

I  thank  the  Lord  that  there  has  come  to  me  the  opportunity  of  be- 
coming a  member  of  this  Church.  I  thank  my  sainted  mother  and  father 
for  the  glorious  teachings  that  they  gave  me  as  a  child  to  honor  and  sus- 
tain the  Authorities  of  this  great  Church.  It  has  been  born  and  bred 
into  me  that  if  I  will  abide  the  counsel  of  those  who  preside  over  me  I 
will  never  go  astray,  and  I  have  undertaken  in  my  weak  and  humble  way 
to  teach  these  same  principles  to  my  own  boys  and  my  girls  and  also 
to  the  wonderful  missionaries  in  our  mission,  that  they  might  have  im- 
planted in  their  hearts  and  souls  that  integrity  and  devotion  that  will 
make  of  them  real,  genuine,  honest-to-goodness  Latter-day  Saints. 

This  Church  invites  the  world  to  come  to  it.  It  is  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  in  fact  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
are  one  and  the  same,  inseparable  and  indivisible,  and  we  who  have 
embraced  its  truths  and  live  according  to  its  glorious  ideals  and  standards 
will  assuredly  go  to  our  eternal  homes,  and  there  will  be  unfolded  to  us 
a  glory  and  a  beauty  that  will  be  very  graciously  received  by  us. 

I  want  to  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  the  three  and  a  half 
years  that  Sister  Daynes  and  I  have  spent  in  the  Western  States  Mission 
have  been  the  most  beautiful  picture  in  our  lives.  We  have  learned  the 
meaning  of  love,  of  loyalty  and  likewise  that  of  faith.  We  have  under- 
taken to  teach  these  precious  truths  to  the  missionaries  sent  us  and  to 
likewise  stimulate  the  faith  of  the  members  of  the  great  Church  within  the 
boundaries  of  our  Mission. 

I  am  very  happy  to  say  that  every  one  of  our  missionaries,  some 
eighty-six  in  all,  is  well  and  happy  and  giving  vigorously  of  his  or  her 
efforts  for  the  great  truths  of  the  Gospel. 

My  testimony  has  never  lessened.  It  is  greater  and  stronger  and 
more  fervent  today  because  I  know  that  the  Gospel  is  true,  God  being 
my  witness.  I  hope  that  I  shall  continue  in  the  faith  and  be  true  to 
every  trust  that  may  be  reposed  in  me.  My  peace  and  blessings  to  you 
all,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 

May  God  ever  direct  us  in  every  path  of  duty  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "High  on  the  Mountain  Top." 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON  75 

ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  had  a  wonderful  Conference 
thus  far.  We  are  a  greatly  blessed  people,  but  we  find  ourselves  in  a 
world  that  is  sometimes  designated  as  "the  lone  and  dreary  world,"  and 
as  we  pass  along  we  encounter  many  dangerous  pitfalls,  but  the  Lord 
in  heaven  has  provided  a  guide  to  take  us  safely  through. 

FOUR  IMPORTANT  BOOKS 

Let  me  draw  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  we  have  four  great 
and  important  books,  comprising  the  standard  works  of  the  Church — 
namely,  the  Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and 
the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  These  four  precious  volumes  which  contain 
the  word  of  God  to  the  children  of  men  constitute  the  best  library  in  all 
the  world.    I  say  this  confidently  without  mental  reservation. 

GIFT  OF  HOLY  GHOST  NECESSARY 

In  connection  with  these  important  books  that  mean  so  much  and 
are  of  such  inestimable  value  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  we  have  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost.  This  is  highly  essential  because  it  is  well  understood 
that  the  prophets  of  old  wrote  and  spoke  as  they  were  moved  upon  by 
the  Holy  Ghost.  And  in  order  to  understand  and  comprehend  their 
writings  we  must  study  those  writings  with  the  same  spirit  by  which 
they  were  written.  So  that  I  think  I  can  safely  say  that  this  gift  which  is 
given  without  exception  to  every  member  of  the  Church,  at  the  time  of 
his  or  her  baptism,  enables  Latter-day  Saints,  and  even  young  children, 
in  great  measure,  to  understand  the  glorious  doctrines  of  the  Gospel; 
whereas  without  this  gift  the  most  learned  and  cultured  people  on  earth 
could  not  comprehend  the  words  of  these  sacred  books. 

A  SURE  GUIDE 

In  addition  to  all  this,  as  constituting  a  sure  guide,  we  have  the  living 
oracles  of  the  Church.  The  prophets  in  the  meridian  of  time  have 
spoken  to  us,  and  now  the  prophets  of  the  latter  days  speak ;  and  it  should 
not  be  forgotten  that  we  have  also  had  one  hundred  years  of  most  im- 
portant and  valuable  experience  behind  us.  We  have  been  well  looked 
after.  The  Lord  has  ever  been  mindful  of  his  people.  He  is  near  at 
hand.  He  hears  their  prayers  and  answers  the  righteous  desires  of  their 
hearts. 

There  are  three  great  things  connected  with  the  guidance  alluded  to. 
First,  during  the  past  one  hundred  years  a  great  and  marvelous  work 
has  been  accomplished  by  the  Latter-day  Saints ;  secondly,  at  the  present 
time  a  further  great  and  marvelous  work  is  being  accomplished;  and, 
thirdly,  there  is  room  for  great  improvement. 

THE  PURPOSE  OF  LIFE 

We  read  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  the  words  of  the  prophet  Lehi 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


(and,  mark  you,  he  was  a  great  prophet), — he  said:  "Adam  fell  that 
men  might  be,  and  men  are,  that  they  might  have  joy."  In  that  line  of 
but  a  few  words  is  disclosed  the  purpose  of  life :  The  very  purpose  of  life 
is  then  that  men  might  have  joy. 

Many  people  may  be  happy.  Many  people  may  be  joyous.  But  no 
person,  or  people,  can  have  a  fulness  of  joy  except  under  certain  stated 
conditions,  and  those  conditions  are  set  forth  in  one  of  the  great  revela- 
tions given  to  Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet.  The  words  are  these : 

Man  is  spirit.  The  elements  are  eternal,  and  spirit  and  element,  in- 
separably connected,  receive  a  fulness  of  joy; 

And  when  separated,  man  cannot  receive  a  fulness  of  joy.  (D.  and 
C.  93:33.) 

THREE  DIFFERENT  ESTATES 

We  are  told  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  that  man's  experience  has 
come  to  him  through  certain  estates.  There  is  the  first  estate  and  the 
second  estate  and  the  third  estate.  In  the  first,  pre-existent,  estate  man's 
experience  was  spiritual  in  its  character.  We  were  spirits  there  and 
we  were  happy.  We  belonged  to  a  great  family  of  spirits.  It  was  a 
heavenly  place  and  we  were  happy  but  we  could  not  altogether  appreciate 
that  happiness  because  we  had  had  no  experience  for  comparison.  We 
must  have  lived  a  great  while.  We  must  have  learned  much  in  that  pre- 
existent  state  but  something  further  was  essential;  something  needed 
to  be  added  to  us  that  was  lacking,  and  that  is  shown  to  be  the  case 
by  certain  scriptures  that  are  found  in  the  Holy  Bible  wherein  it  is  said, 
"God  formed  man  of  the  dust  of  the  ground  and  breathed  into  him  the 
breath  of  life,  and  he  became  a  living  soul." 

Previously  he  was  not  a  living  soul,  he  was  a  living  spirit.  You  are 
living  souls ;  I  am  a  living  soul.  Satan  is  not  a  living  soul,  neither  are 
those  wicked  spirits  who  went  with  him,  who  rebelled  in  heaven  and  were 
cast  out  and  came  down  to  earth.  Their  punishment,  according  to  the 
words  of  Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet,  is  that  they  should  not  be  given 
bodies. 

And  so  this  gives  us  an  idea  of  how  very  precious  and  desirable 
is  the  body.  It  is  called  the  tabernacle  of  the  spirit.  It  is  called  a  living 
temple  of  God,  and  how  wonderful  that  is,  and  it  is  only  when  we  have 
attained  to  that  condition  that  we  can  rise  in  the  resurrection,  after  taking 
up  these  bodies,  to  exaltation  and  glory  in  that  future  third  estate;  so 
that  we  have  in  this  matter  of  three  estates  a  perfect  brief  citation  of  the 
purpose  and  meaning  of  life. 

THE  IMPORTANCE  OF  THE  BODY 

Bernard  McFadden,  the  publisher  of  the  Physical  Culture  Journal, 
pays  a  glowing  tribute  to  the  importance  of  the  body.  It  is  so  much  in 
line  with  the  teaching  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  that  it  seems  to  me  possibly  you  would  be  interested  in  hearing 
what  he  says  about  the  body. 

The  title  of  this  editorial  is  "Making  our  Body  Glorious." 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


77 


Glorify  God  in  your  body  is  a  Biblical  command.  It  is  a  command 
also  dictated  by  common  sense.  Your  body  is  the  house  in  which  you 
must  live  all  through  life.  You  cannot  move  out  of  it  until  you  make 
your  last  trip  to  the  cemetery. 

To  exalt  and  beautify  the  body  exemplifies  the  highest  degree  of  culture 
and  intelligence.  Your  body  should  be  treated  with  reverence.  It  should 
be  cared  for  daily,  and  given  every  consideration.  You  should  assume  the 
responsibility  as  a  sacred  trust.  Therefore,  the  acquirement  of  buoyant, 
vital  health  is  a  duty  no  one  should  neglect. 

Many  of  the  tragedies  that  are  so  interestingly  present  in  the  vivid, 
life-like  stories,  were  made  possible  because  the  body  was  treated  with 
indifference. 

When  you  possess  a  hardy,  vigorous  body,  your  physical  instincts 
give  poise  and  add  force  to  your  character.  Your  very  soul  is  more 
keenly  alive.  And  you  then  have  a  foundation  for  spiritual  power,  that 
should  be  invaluable  in  the  attainment  of  life's  great  riches  of  mind  and 
soul. 

Nearly  all  criminals  are  physically  as  well  as  mentally  defective. 
They  have  sinned  against  the  body,  and  they  had  to  pay  the  associated 
penalties. 

Man  was  made  in  the  image  of  God,  so  the  Good  Book  tells  us.  If 
you  expect  love  and  romance  to  come  into  your  life,  you  should  try  and 
make  your  body  godlike  in  its  proportions.  It  is  only  then  that  masculinity 
and  femininity  possess  the  fascinating  lure  that  leads  to  a  sacred  love.  The 
glamor  of  romance,  after  all,  serves  a  very  practical  purpose.  It  is  made 
to  perpetuate  the  home  and  guarantee  the  continuance  of  the  race.  There- 
fore, do  not  decry  the  body — your  flesh  and  blood  home.  Give  it  careful 
consideration  every  day  of  your  life.  Make  it  strong,  fine  and  splendid 
throughout  its  every  part. 

In  I  Corinthians  3 : 16-17  we  read :  "Know  ye  not  that  ye  are  the  temple 
of  God?"  *  *  *  "If  any  man  defile  the  temple  of  God  him  shall  God 
destroy  for  the  temple  of  God  is  holy,  which  temple  ye  are."  Regardless 
of  your  religious  views,  you  cannot  get  away  from  the  truth  of  this  divine 
philosophy. 

Our  bodily  house  can  be  built  with  such  fine  material  that  it  will 
stand  the  stress  and  storm  of  the  most  severe  nature. 

Even  the  most  devastating  sorrows  that  seem  to  sear  the  soul  to  the 
very  limit  can  be  lived  down  and  the  sunlight  of  life  can  still  add  zest  and 
glory  to  your  daily  life  if  you  properly  assume  the  sacred  trust  of  building 
and  maintaining  that  hardy  strength  which  is  our  natural  heritage. 

THE  SPIRITUAL  AND  THE  TEMPORAL 

I  have  no  doubt,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  all  concur  in  what 
is  said,  in  this  splendid  editorial  because  it  is  in  harmony  with  the  teachings 
of  the  Gospel.  The  spirit  is  precious,  the  body  is  precious,  and  when  joined 
together  they  constitute  the  soul  of  man.  The  spiritual  body  is  greater 
than  the  temporal  body,  but  even  so  we  see  how  very  important  is  the 
body  and  how  careful  we  should  be  to  refrain  from  taking  into  the  body 
anything  that  would  be  hurtful  to  it  or  would  have  a  tendency  to  defile  it. 

In  this  Conference  we  have  heard  of  the  spiritual  and  we  have 
heard  of  the  temporal.  I  have  never  been  able  myself  to  draw  the  exact 
line  between  the  temporal  and  the  spiritual.  The  line,  if  such  there  be, 
is  very  fine  and  almost  indistinguishable. 

THE  TRUE  CHURCH 

I  solemnly  testify,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  before  sitting  down,  that 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  do  know  absolutely  that  this  is  the  true  Church  of  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world  whose  precious  blood  was  shed  that  we  might  live  and  be  redeemed 
and  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  I  know  also  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
a  prophet  of  God,  faithful  and  true,  and  a  wonderful  man — wonderful 
indeed,  and  that  his  brother  Hyrum,  the  Patriarch,  was  much  like  him. 

I  rejoice  in  this  testimony  and  pray  that  it  may  ever  be  with  me, 
and  I  invoke  God's  blessings  upon  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  WILFORD  W.  RICHARDS 

President  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in  the  clarity  and  the  strength 
with  which  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  have  been  taught  to  us  in  this 
Conference.  It  is  indeed  good  to  be  here. 

We,  in  the  North  Central  States  Mission,  believe  that  the  present 
time  is  a  very  choice  period  in  which  to  do  missionary  work.  We  are 
constantly  being  asked  such  vital  questions  as :  What  is  behind  all  these 
things  that  are  happening  on  Temple  Block  in  Salt  Lake  City  ?  What  is 
it  that  stimulates  and  maintains  your  great  missionary  system  ?  Why  do 
you  build  these  temples?  How  is  your  Security  work  organized  and 
conducted?  The  answers  to  these  questions  carry  much  that  is  funda- 
mental to  our  doctrine,  our  activity  and  our  lives.  People  have  always 
been  interested  in  results.  We  as  missionaries  are  delighted  to  point  to 
some  of  these  things  as  evidence  of  our  activity  and  ability  to  meet  the 
problems  of  the  day. 

It  would  seem  that  the  theme  of  this  conference  may  easily  be 
summarized  in  that  passage  from  the  87th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants : 

Wherefore,  stand  ye  in  holy  places,  and  be  not  moved,  until  the  day 
of  the  Lord  come;  for  behold  it  cometh  quickly,  saith  the  Lord. 

Our  inspired  leaders  have  in  these  sessions  clearly  marked  the  path, 
and  not  only  indicated  the  holy  places,  but  have  indicated  the  safety 
associated  with  them.  It  is  a  sacred  privilege  to  be  permitted  to  stand 
therein. 

Our  missionaries  stand  in  holy  places.  As  evidence  of  this,  I  suggest 
a  recent  experience  in  our  Mission.  It  appeared  necessary  to  leave  one 
of  our  cities  temporarily  without  missionaries,  due  to  the  release  of  one 
of  our  number.  This  plan  brought  from  a  non-member  friend  a  fervent 
appeal  that  missionaries  be  returned  to  them.  She  spoke  for  her  friends 
and  neighbors  and  called  our  attention  to  the  fact  that  they  were  being 
taught  the  sacred  principles  of  the  Gospel  and  needed  sorely  the  help  and 
leadership  of  the  missionaries. 

In  due  time,  I  personally  accompanied  an  elder  as  he  returned  to 
this  city.  Across  the  aisle  in  the  train  was  a  young  man  in  the  custody  of 
a  sheriff.  The  officer  was  returning  his  companion  to  face  serious  charges 
of  infraction  of  the  law.   I  witnessed  the  uneasiness  of  the  young  man. 


ELDER  WILFORD  W.  RICHARDS 


79 


I  heard  him  discuss  the  possibility  of  meeting  his  accusers,  of  facing  a 
court  and  a  jury  with  the  possible  loss  of  his  freedom  for  months  or 
years.  He  traveled  at  the  expense  of  the  state.  When  the  time  to  eat 
arrived,  he  was  taken  into  the  diner.  At  night,  he  was  led  into  the 
sleeping  apartment  of  the  train.  Yet,  with  all  of  this,  he  was  unhappy. 
He  was  uncertain  of  himself.  It  was  quite  evident  he  didn't  stand  in 
"holy  places." 

In  the  same  car  traveled  the  missionary  who  was  also  being  re- 
turned. He  was  not  wanted  by  an  accuser  or  the  arm  of  the  law.  He 
was  returning  to  an  unselfish  and  a  sacred  service.  He  willingly  paid 
his  own  transportation.  For  food  he  ate  a  sandwich  and  an  apple.  At 
night  he  secured  what  sleep  was  possible  by  dozing  in  his  seat.  He  was 
radiating  the  spirit  of  calm  and  cheer  as  he  conversed  with  fellow 
passengers.  There  was  no  disturbing  conscience.  He  was  at  peace  with 
himself  and  with  others.  He  stood  in  "holy  places."  This  situation,  in 
contrast  with  the  one  just  mentioned,  clearly  illustrates  the  value  of  the 
Gospel  and  the  application  of  its  truths.  It  thoroughly  demonstrates  the 
fact  that  the  safe,  sane  and  happy  life  is  the  one  that  is  well-ordered  and 
disciplined.  It  is  not  difficult  to  see  and  understand  that  the  measure  of 
one's  achievement,  progress  and  joy  is  viewed  in  terms  of  the  degree  to 
which  he  gives  himself  wholly  and  sincerely  to  the  living  of  the  funda- 
mental and  potent  truths  of  the  Gospel. 

In  the  North  Central  States  Mission  we  have  many  choice  and 
worthy  people.  One  of  these  I  desire  to  refer  to  as  a  man  of  faith,  as 
the  following  incident  will  indicate.  I  speak  of  Brother  Arnold  Wads- 
worth  of  Chinook,  Montana.  A  few  years  ago  this  brother  had  the 
misfortune  to  lose  the  sight  of  one  eye.  About  a  year  ago,  while  working 
on  his  farm,  the  lever  on  a  planting  machine  was  accidentally  released, 
striking  him  in  the  other  eye,  which  resulted  in  the  loss  of  sight  there 
also.  While  receiving  treatment  in  a  hospital  at  Great  Falls,  Montana, 
following  this  accident,  he  was  visited  by  President  Edward  J.  Wood, 
of  the  Alberta  Temple,  who  gave  him  a  blessing  with  a  promise  that 
vision  would  be  restored  to  the  sufferer.  For  several  months  there  was 
darkness,  but  always  an  abiding  faith  and  a  manly  courage.  Last  Decem- 
ber, Brother  Wadsworth  felt  impressed  to  visit  the  Mayo  Brothers  at 
their  noted  clinic  in  Rochester,  Minnesota,  also  in  our  Mission.  Here 
the  best  of  care  and  attention  was  given  him.  Several  operations  were 
performed,  but  each  time  accompanied  by  disappointment  and  apparent 
failure.  After  several  weeks,  an  interview  was  called  at  which  time  he 
was  told  that  nothing  could  be  done  for  him.  The  operations  had  failed 
and  there  was  nothing  left  for  him  to  do  but  to  return  to  his  home  and 
adjust  himself  to  such  life  and  activities  as  could  be  accomplished  without 
sight. 

This  man  of  faith  replied  that  such  could  not  be.  He  had  been 
promised  by  a  servant  of  the  Lord  that  he  would  see  and  that  he  had 
come  to  this  noted  institution  for  the  scientific  skill  required.  Failure 
could  not  be  accepted.  Followed  by  a  brief  but  intense  silence,  this 
answer  came  from  the  skilled  physicians :  "If  that  is  your  faith,  your 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


purpose  and  hope,  we  will  try  again."  Another  operation  was  arranged. 
A  more  healthful  condition  was  found  than  had  hitherto  been  discovered. 
Followed  by  other  operations  and  special  treatment  sight  came  back  into 
the  eye.  This  experience  is  recognized  as  an  outstanding  event  in  the 
clinic.  The  scientists  were  deeply  touched  by  it.  This  grateful  man 
recently  returned  to  his  home  able  to  see  his  loved  ones,  his  associates, 
and  to  engage  in  his  activities  which  had  been  impossible  for  many 
months.  He  speaks  of  this  experience  with  a  deep  and  sincere  gratitude 
and  a  sacred  recognition  of  the  kindness  of  the  Lord  to  him.  He,  too, 
stood  in  "holy  places." 

May  we,  also,  be  able  to  stand  in  such  places  and  be  not  moved. 
It  is  a  privilege  to  drink  deeply  of  the  spirit  and  inspiration  of  this 
Conference  as  it  flows  through  these,  our  presiding  brethren.  Such  is 
our  blessing,  our  guide  and  our  refuge.  May  we  all  be  strengthened  by 
an  appreciation  of  its  full  significance  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  rejoice  greatly,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  meeting  with  you  and 
enjoying  the  sessions  of  this  Conference.  I  am  fully  in  accord  with 
everything  that  has  been  said  to  us  during  all  these  meetings.  I  feel  that 
the  instructions  that  have  been  given  are  of  great  value,  and  that,  as 
Latter-day  Saints,  we  should  remember  that  which  has  been  said,  and, 
undertake  to  follow  it  out  to  the  best  of  our  ability  for  our  own  welfare. 

CORRECT  PRINCIPLES  SELF-GOVERNMENT 

I  am  reminded  of  a  story  that  is  told — I  think  most  of  you  have 
heard  it — of  the  time  when  the  Prophet  Joseph  was  in  Nauvoo.  Nauvoo 
had  become  a  very  flourishing  and  wonderful  city, — the  outstanding  city 
of  Illinois, — one  of  the  most  remarkable  cities  in  the  country  at  that  time. 
It  was  situated  on  the  frontier  and  of  course  did  not  enjoy  the  facilities 
that  we  have  today.  Visitors  came  from  all  parts  of  the  country.  Among 
them  was  a  prominent  minister  who  was  quite  interested  in  community 
welfare.  He  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph:  "How  do  you  govern  this 
people  so  remarkably  well?  There  is  order  and  harmony,  and  splendid 
results  are  being  accomplished  in  this  city."  The  Prophet  Joseph  gave 
that  historic  answer :  "I  teach  them  correct  principles,  and  they  govern 
themselves."  I  think  that  is  the  keynote  for  us  as  Latter-day  Saints  in 
all  the  walks  of  life. 

LOVE  OF  MONEY  THE  ROOT  OF  EVIL 

President  Clawson  has  referred  to  the  fact  that  it  is  hard  to  dis- 
tinguish between  the  temporal  and  the  spiritual.  We  are  concerned  with 
temporal  things  as  well  as  spiritual  things.  We  need  to  act  properly  in 
temporal  things  and  we  need  to  grow  spiritually.    We  should  not  allow 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


81 


the  temporal  things  to  over-balance  spiritual  things;  because  while  we 
have  to  earn  our  own  livelihood,  we  ought  to  keep  in  mind  all  the  time 
that  we  are  here  for  a  time  only,  that  this  life  is  only  part  of  our  exist- 
ence, and  that  eternal  treasures  are  the  things  for  which  to  strive.  We 
are  told  by  the  Apostle  Paul  that  the  love  of  money  is  the  root  of  all  evil. 
Certainly  the  love  of  money  may  lead  to  some  very  serious  conditions. 
Any  man  or  woman  whose  whole  heart  is  set  upon  the  acquiring  of 
wealth  to  the  exclusion  of  things  that  are  spiritual  and  in  accordance 
with  the  principles, the  Savior  laid  down  is  failing  to  appreciate  some  of 
the  greatest  things  in  life.  Anyone  whose  efforts  are  so  set  upon  the 
things  of  this  world,  that  he  does  not  show  fair  dealings  and  mutual 
helpfulness  to  his  fellowmen,  though  he  may  accumulate  wealth,  is  a 
failure. 

PRESENT  ECONOMIC  CONDITIONS 

I  have  been  trying  to  analyze  in  my  own  mind  during  this  Con- 
ference something  of  the  present  economic  conditions  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  realize  that  there  has  been  great  improvement  in  a  general 
way  in  economic  conditions  throughout  the  nation,  and  in  our  own 
localities.  I  would  like  to  present  a  few  figures  to  you  to  indicate  some- 
thing of  the  recovery  that  has  taken  place  with,  of  course,  the  help  of  a 
great  amount  of  Federal  funds  throughout  the  nation.  These  figures 
refer  to  the  nation  as  a  whole. 

COMPARATIVE  BUSINESS  INDICATORS 

In  1929  farm  income  was  at  a  figure  of  105,  100  being  the  normal. 
In  1936  it  was  85.  In  department  store  sales  in  1929  the  index  was  108. 
In  1936,  93.  In  business, activity  in  1928  and  1929  it  was  110.  In  1936, 
108.  In  the  matter  of  employment  in  the  durable  goods  industries, — the 
heavy  industries  which  reflect  and  indicate  in  large  measure  the  prosperity 
of  the  country, — the  index  in  1929  was  95.  In  1936,  88.  In  demand  bank 
deposits  throughout  the  country,  the  total  in  1929  was  $13,500,000,000. 
In  1936,  $19,000,000,000. 

In  our  own  locality  we  find  that  building  permits,  for  instance,  in  this 
city  in  1929  were  $5,670,000.  In  1936,  $3,373,000,  or  60%.  In  some  de- 
partment store  sales  in  this  city,  taking  the  volume  in  1929  at  100%,  the 
volume  in  1936  was  75.2%.  In  wholesale  groceries,  with  100%  in  1929, 
the  percentage  was  81.6%  in  1936.  In  wholesale  hardware,  with  an  index 
of  100  in  1929,  the  index  in  1936  was  122.  In  the  matter  of  unemploy- 
ment, the  decrease  during  the'  past  two  or  three  years  has  been  very 
substantial.  In  fact,  it  appears  that  ordinarily,  at  present,  of  those  who 
are  qualified  in  the  trades,  there  is, practically  no  unemployment.  In  my 
judgment,  one  of  the  best  gauges  of  economic  welfare  in  this  inter- 
mountain  territory  is  the  measure  of  tithes  paid.  On  a  unit  basis,  this 
would  indicate  that  in  the  year  1936  economic  conditions  among  the  people 
were  about  83%  of  what  they  were  in  1929.  In  respect  of  building  con- 
struction, I  think  we  have  recovered  probably  less  than  in  almost  any 
Other  phase  of  industry;  but  I  believe  that  with  the  progress  we  are 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


making  in  economic  conditions,  there  will  be  a  large  increase  in  this 
activity  in  the  future;  which  should  take  up  a  large  part  of  the  unem- 
ployment that  prevails  throughout  this  nation. 

IMPROVEMENT  IN  EMPLOYMENT 

I  find  in  traveling  among  the  stakes  of  Zion  in  many  places  there  is 
relatively  little  unemployment  and  that  people  are  feeling  much  better 
about  conditions.  Yet  there  is  and  always  will  be  unemployment,  and  at 
the  present  time,  particularly  in  the  more  densely  populated  sections,  there 
is  still  considerable  unemployment.  It  has  been  found  true  that  a  large 
proportion  of  the  unemployed  are  those  who  have  not  particularly  qual- 
ified for  any  line  of  industry.  They  have  never  become  skilled  in  voca- 
tions or  trades.  I  think  that  is  one  of  the  things  that  we  ought  to  stimu- 
late, to  encourage  and  to  assist  in  every  part  of  the  Church.  All  girls 
and  boys  among  us  should  learn  trades  or  vocations  that  will  fit  them  best 
for  life  as  far  as  practicable,  in  the  localities  in  which  they  live.  It 
appears  that  in  this  year,  1937,  there  will  be  constantly  increasing  oppor- 
tunities for  employment  in  the  mining  industry,  in  agriculture,  in  con- 
struction work  and  in  generally  increased  business  activity. 

DEVELOPMENT  OF  NATURAL  RESOURCES 

In  like  manner,  we  should  develop  all  our  natural  resources  under 
proper  state  control,  and  develop  industries  suitable  to  local  conditions. 
In  Utah,  for  instance,  in  the  matter  of  water  supply  we  are  not  so  fortu- 
nate as  some  of  the  surrounding  states.  Idaho  is  much  better  situated  in 
water  resources.  To  some  extent  Arizona  also  has  this  advantage,  as 
well  as  California,  Wyoming,  and  Colorado.  Water  is  the  very  lif eblood 
of  our  communities.  For  lack  of  sufficient  water  some  of  our  people  have 
found  it  difficult,  particularly  in  these  drouth  years  that  we  have  had,  to 
mature  proper  crops  and  maintain  the  population  we  have,  and  that  we 
ought  to  have,  with  the  extent  of  fertile  land  in  various  localities. 

CONSERVATION  OF  WATER  SUPPLY 

I  say  water  is  the  lif  eblood  of  this  intermountain  section.  The  State 
Engineer  of  Utah  has  been  making  a  survey  of  small  reservoir  sites 
throughout  the  State.  Utah  has  had  proportionately  less  reclamation  than 
any  of  the  surrounding  States.  Yet  all  possible  water  supply  ought  to  be 
conserved  for  irrigation  of  available  lands.  A  large  proportion  of  the 
people  of  the  Church  have  been  trained  in  agriculture  and  are  living  near 
to  the  soil.  There  ought  to  be  every  opportunity  given  to  them,  as  far  as 
possible,  to  maintain  themselves  in  the  communities  in  which  they  live. 
The  results  of  the  survey  above  mentioned  indicate  that  there  are  about 
fifty-four  small  reservoir  sites  in  addition  to  some  other  possibilities  of 
additional  water  supply.  If  they  can  be  developed,  many  communities 
throughout  this  State  will  be  helped.  I  would  like  to  encourage  the  Stake 
Presidencies  and  Ward  Bishoprics  in  those  communities  where  such  pos- 
sibilities prevail  to  cooperate  in  every  way  in  an  endeavor  to  get  reservoirs 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


83 


developed  to  provide  supplemental  water  for  theiinaturing  of  later  crops 
in  localities  where  our  people  have  already  established  themselves.  The 
water  supply  should  be  controlled  and  regulated  in  such  a  way  that  the 
people  at  large  will  have  the  benefit.  In  like  manner  it  is  important  that 
all  natural  resources  should  be  developed  and  protected  for  the  welfare  of 
all  the  people. 

CLASS  AND  FREAK  LEGISLATION 

It  seems  to  me  at  the  present  time  there  is  an  unusual  tendency  in  our 
legislation  not  to  consider  the  welfare  of  the  whole  people,  but  for  various 
groups  to  seek  to  obtain  legislation  that  pertains  to  their  particular  inter- 
ests. Now,  if  there  is  any  particular  group  that  wants  any  legislation  that 
is  not  for  the  welfare  of  the  people  as  a  whole,  it  is  dangerous  legislation. 
As  citizens  and  leaders  in  these  various  communities,  it  should  be  realized 
that  those  who  are  elected  or  appointed  to  act  in  political  office  should 
cultivate  the  determination  to  deal  fairly  with  all  citizens  and  avoid  any- 
thing in  the  nature  of  class  legislation,  for  such  things  are  bound  to  react 
in  promoting  strife  and  disunion. 

AVOID  CLASS  FEELING  AND  STRIFE 

There  is  a  tendency  among  some  politicians  to  stir  up  class  feeling 
and  to  pit  one  group  or  class  against  another.  That  is  a  dangerous  thing. 
The  Lord's  heart  is  open  and  his  blessings  come  to  all  mankind ;  he  is  no 
respecter  of  persons,  and  in  all  lands  and  in  all  places  those  who  serve  him 
and  keep  his  commandments  are  accepted  of  him.  I  think  that  ought  to 
be  the  spirit  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  everywhere.  We  should  strive 
against  anything  in  the  nature  of  class  feeling  or  class  legislation.  We 
have  heard  during  this  conference  about  the  strikes  that  are  prevailing 
at  the  present  time.  We  are  all  familiar  with  these  conditions.  We  must 
all  come  to  understand  that  when  such  conditions  develop,  it  is  high  time 
that  both  employers  and  employes  shall  be  made  legally  responsible  under 
the  law  in  their  dealings  with  one  another.  Also,  it  must  be  remembered 
that,  in  many  such  disagreements,  the  public  at  large  suffers  the  conse- 
quences. Is  it,  therefore,  not  possible  to  work  out  some  plan  whereby 
friction  may  be  avoided  and  whereby  strikes  may  be  promptly  settled  to 
avoid  loss  of  wages  to  employes,  deficits  to  the  employers,  and  suffering 
to  the  public?  There  must  be  plans  worked  out,  and  proper  legislation 
enacted,  that  will  bring  both  sides  of  such  controversies  together  under 
equitable  conditions  ;  otherwise,  if  they  increase  they  will  become  a  serious 
menace  to  the  welfare  and  progress  of  this  nation. 

WISE  COUNSEL  OF  PRESIDENT  GRANT 

There  have  been  a  number  of  legislative  matters  that  have  been  en- 
acted and  policies  promulgated  against  which  warning  has  been  given  by 
the  President  of  the  Church ;  and  I  want  to  say  to  you,  and  I  believe  you 
will  realize  it  if  you  will  think  back  upon  these  things,  that  in  every 
instance  he  was  right  in  his  counsel.    If  this  advice  had  been  followed 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


we  should  all  have  better  conditions.  Now,  we  do  not  believe  in  blind 
obedience,  but  we  do  believe  in  discerning  obedience.  Every  one  of  us 
is  entitled  to  enjoy  discernment.  What  is  discernment?  It  is  recogniz- 
ing the  difference  between  right  and  wrong,  or  developing  clearness  of 
judgment  or  insight.  If  we  are  living  the  Gospel  we  are  entitled  to  enjoy 
the  light  of  the  Holy  Spirit  to  guide  and  bless  us,  to  enable  us  to  judge 
rightly.  We  do  not  have  to  accept  the  judgment  or  counsel  of  the  man 
who  stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church  here  upon  the  earth ;  but  we  will 
know  that  the  things  he  advises  are  right,  if  we  will  divorce  ourselves 
from  personal  or  political  desires  or  ideas.  We  should  strive  to  enjoy 
the  spirit  of  discernment.  The  Apostle  Paul  tells  us  that  one  of  the  gifts 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  the  discernment  of  spirits.  In  like  manner  one  of  the 
gifts  is  discernment  of  right  and  wrong.  What  a  wonderful  thing  it  will 
be  when  we  shall  all  learn  correct  principles,  and  have  the  discernment  to 
govern  ourselves  in  righteousness.  Then  we  shall  grow  in  justice  and 
fair  dealing,  we  shall  avoid  strife  and  contention,  we  shall  enact  and 
administer  equitable  laws,  and  improve  in  temporal  and  spiritual  things. 
The  Lord  will  prosper  this  people  temporally  as  well  as  spirtually  if  we 
control  our  selfish  feelings  and  strive  to  carry  out  his  purposes. 

FOLLOW  ADVICE  OF  LEADERS 

I  rejoice  in  the  truth  of  the  Gospel.  I"  realize  the  fact  that  the  Lord 
has  beeni very  kind  to  me;  my  brethren  have  been  very  kind  to  me,  they 
have  borne  with  me.  I  sustain  these  men  who  preside  because  I  know 
they  are  men  who  have  been  selected  of  the  Lord  by  the  inspiration  and 
power  of  his  Spirit.  And  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  I  realize  the  Presi- 
dency of  this  Church  are  in  a  position  to  counsel  us  in  righteousness.  If 
we  will  forget  personal  feelings  or  selfish  desires  and  will  conform  to 
such  advice  we  will  gain  the  blessings.  The  people  as  a  whole  will  be 
prospered  and  blessed ;  and  the  people  of  the  world  will  be  greatly  bene- 
fited if  they  will  observe  the  instructions  that  are  given  to  us  here  and 
that  have  been  given  to  us  all  the  years  past.  I  know  of  a  verity  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  he  was  an 
instrument  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  in  restoring  the  Gospel  of  which 
we  are  the  beneficiaries,  and  that  all  those  who  have  succeeded  him  as 
presidents  of  the  Church  have  been  empowered  with  the  same  power 
and  spirit.  They  have  enjoyed  the  spirit  of  their  calling  in  rich  measure. 
May  the  Lord  continue  to  sustain  President  Grant,  and  bless  all  the 
officers  throughout  this  Church,  that  they  may  be  watchmen  upon  the 
towers,  that  they  may  listen  to  the  instructions  given  by  those  in  authority 
and  carry  the  same  to  the  people !  May  every  one  of  the  members  of  the 
Church  cultivate  the  spirit  of  discernment  and  of  righteousness,  that  all 
may  learn  proper  principles  and  control  ourselves  for  our  own  benefit 
and  for  the  progress  of  the  work  of  God,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

As  a  closing  number,  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn  "The  Spirit 
of  God  like  a  Fire  is  Burning." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


85 


Elder  T.  George  Wood,  President  of  the  Taylor  Stake  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Tuesday,  April  6,  10  o'clock  a.  m. 

THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  promptly  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Tuesday,  April 

6. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  furnished  the  musical  numbers 
for  this  session.  The  first  selection  by  the  Singing  Mothers  was  "How 
lovely  are  Thy  Dwellings." 

Elder  Stephen  H.  Winter,  President  of  the  San  Francisco  Stake, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  Singing  Mothers  then  sang  an  anthem,  "Crossing  the  Bar." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  for  the  vote  of  the  Conference  the  General  Authorities 
and  General  Officers  of  the  Church  as  follows,  all  of  whom  were  unani- 
mously sustained: 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Reed  Smoot  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

George  Albert  Smith  John  A.  Widtsoe 

George  F.  Richards  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Charles  A.  Callis 

Stephen  L  Richards  Albert  E.  Bowen 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency  and  the  Twelve  Apostles  as 
Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-I N-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Jonathan  G  .Kimball  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Samuel  O.  Bennion 

Levi  Edgar  Young  John  H.  Taylor 

Rufus  K.  Hardy 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

OTHER  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants :  Andrew  Jen- 
son  and  A.  William  Lund. 

CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  John  A.  Widtsoe 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Adam  S.  Bennion 

David  O.  McKay  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Rudger  Clawson  Franklin  S.  Harris 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Charles  A.  Callis 

Stephen  L  Richards  Franklin  L.  West 
Richard  R.  Lyman 

Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 

Franklin  L.  West 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Orval  W.  Adams  John  F.  Bennett 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

David  A.  Smith,  President;  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor;  D. 
Sterling  Wheelwright,  Assistant  Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Alexander  Schreiner  ' 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Wade  N.  Stephens,  Assistant 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  First  Counselor 
Kate  M.  Barker,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


ELDER  MELV1N  J.  BALLARD  87 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

George  D.  Pyper,  General  Superintendent 
Milton  Bennion,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Q.  Morris,  General  Superintendent 
(We  will  ask  Brother  Morris  to  select  his  assistants  later) 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  WOMEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Ruth  May  Fox,  President 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  First  Counselor 
Clarissa  A.  Beesley,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  Superintendent 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Edith  Hunter  Lambert,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH  REVIEWED 

This  Church  has  had  an  interesting  past.  It  will  have  a  more  in- 
teresting future.  It  has  ever  had  outstanding  objectives,  that  have 
focused  the  attention  of  the  Church  as  we  have  gone  forward,  step  by 
step,  in  unfolding  the  plan  and  purpose  of  the  Lord  in  the  establishment 
of  this,  his  glorious  work,  to  be  triumphant  in  the  last  days.  We  glory 
in  those  achievements  of  the  past.  We  have  reason  to  be  grateful  to  the 
Lord  for  the  faithfulness  and  devotion  of  our  fathers  and  mothers.  We 
have  been  through  days  of  trial  and  of  struggle,  of  migration  and  immi- 
gration; crossing  the  plains;  and  colonization  work.  We  have  passed 
through  days  of  misunderstanding  when  the  voice  of  villainy  and  slander 
has  had  its  day.  We  have  seen  bonds  and  imprisonment  and  even  mar- 
tyrdom. But  a  new  day  has  dawned  for  the  Church,  a  day  of  under- 
standing and  a  day  of  demonstration.  This  day  comes  at  a  time  when  the 
world  needs  the  very  things  that  the  Church  is  undertaking  to  accomplish 
as  an  example  to  them.  It  comes  at  a  time  when  Christianity  is  having 
its  most  serious  struggle,  at  least  in  these  modern  days,  by  reason  of  the 
difficulty  churches  are  having  to  hold  their  membership,  wherein,  we 
have  learned  at  this  Conference,  entire  nations  have  turned  away  from 
Christianity.  Some  have  said  that  the  world  has  waited  nineteen  hundred 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


years  for  Christianity  to  reach  the  zenith  of  its  power,  and  then  it 
is  found  helpless  to  save  the  world  from  its  greatest  catastrophe,  and 
there  is  a  disposition  to  look  for  something  else. 

Spain's  sad  condition 

I  confess  to  you  that  it  is  a  sad  picture  to  see  what  is  happening  in 
Spain  today.  Spain  was,  for  nearly  a  thousand  years,  the  mightiest 
strength  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  in  maintaining  itself,  and  it 
was  by  the  might  and  power  of  Spanish  soldiers  that  this  church  was 
able  to  establish  itself  in  nearly  all  of  Latin  America;  and  to  see  this 
great  nation  turning  against  that  church,  crucifying  priests  upon  the 
crosses  within  their  own  sacred  structures,  driving  priests  and  nuns  from 
the  country,  and  raiding  the  treasury.  These  men  who  are  the  descend- 
ants of  many  generations  of  that  kind  of  Christianity  are  engaging  in  one 
of  the  crudest  wars  that  ever  has  been  waged  among  any  people  in  the 
destruction  of  each  other.  If  these  are  the  fruits  of  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  no  wonder  the  world  is  losing  faith. 

VITALITY  IN  CHURCH  OF  CHRIST 

There  are  many  today  who  are  agreeing  with  what  the  Lord  said  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  more  than  a  hundred  years  ago,  concerning 
the  brand  of  Christianity  that  was  in  the  world  then.  "They  had  the 
form  of  godliness  but  they  lacked  the  power  thereof."  Our  Church,  I 
say,  comes  to  the  attention  of  the  world,  when  the  world  is  willing 
to  listen,  and  is  far  more  concerned  in  the  actual  demonstration  than  in 
any  of  our  proclamations  of  theories.  For,  after  all,  you  can  never  judge 
the  merit  of  any  plan  until  you  see  it  in  actual  operation  in  the  lives  of 
those  who  believe  it. 

This  Church  has  survived  all  this  opposition  and  stands  today 
making  its  greatest  progress,  outranking  other  churches  so  far  as  its  per- 
centage of  growth  and  increase  is  concerned,  showing  a  vitality  no  other 
church  has  equalled  so  far  as  I  know.  No  other  church  in  this  land  has 
been  engaged  in  building  churches  as  this  Church  has  been  during  the 
past  few  years.  It  is  attracting  the  attention  of  the  people  of  the  world. 
But  there  is  something  here  that  is  vital,  something  that  holds  men 
in  times  of  trial,  supports  them  in  the  face  of  mobs,  sustains  them  in 
pilgrimages  across  the  plains,  keeps  them  loyal  under  all  these  circum- 
stances and  now,  in  the  day  of  prosperity,  can  still  hold  its  membership. 

My  soul  rejoices,  therefore,  in  the  great  undertaking  which  the 
Church  has  set  for  itself,  to  demonstrate  that  the  plan  of  our  Father  in 
Heaven  is  capable  of  meeting  and  solving  economic  problems  of  the  poor 
and  the  unfortunate  by  the  vigorous  application  of  those  principles  which 
the  Lord  revealed  to  the  Church  in  the  very  beginning. 

When  I  think  of  the  difficulties  in  the  world  to  amalgamate  people 
into  a  brotherhood,  I  realize  we  have  reached  a  time  when  we  are  about  as 
far  away  from  brotherhood  as  the  world  has  been  in  a  long  time,  because 
each  nation  is  thinking  only  of  itself  and  within  each  nation  are  groups 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


89 


that  are  affiliated  for  selfish  interests.  How  difficult  it  was  in  the  days 
of  Christ  to  amalgamate  the  Jew  and  the  Gentile,  and  yet  it  was  the 
prayer,  one  of  the  last  prayers  of  the  Master  when  he  said,  as  he  prayed, 
that  they  all,  his  disciples,  "may  be  one  as  thou,  Father,  art  in  me  and  I 
in  thee,  that  they  may  also  be  one  in  us,  that  the  world  may  believe  that 
thou  hast  sent  me." 

BROTHERHOOD  IN  THE  CHURCH 

It  was  the  plan  and  purpose  of  the  Christ  and  his  Church  to  make 
men  brothers,  no  matter  what  their  nationality,  to  bring  them  into  a  broth- 
erhood and  a  fraternity.  I  rejoice  when  I  see  what  has  happened  in  this 
Church  in  the  gathering  of  the  people  from  all  nations,  even  as  the  old 
Prophets  saw  them  come — one  of  a  city  and  two  of  a  family,  and  from 
every  nation — to  the  "mountain  of  the  Lord's  house,"  to  here  be  amalga- 
mated into  a  brotherhood  the  like  of  which  has  never  been  witnessed  in  the 
history  of  this  world  before,  among  the  peoples  of  Europe  and  America, 
save  it  was  in  the  days  of  the  Nephites,  when  they  too  had  a  brotherhood 
for  a  long  period  of  time.  But  here  we  are  assembled  in  this  house,  Eng- 
lish, Irish,  Danish,  Scotch,  all  nationalities,  into  a  brotherhood.  I  am  sure 
that  it  is  the  purpose  of  the  Church  tjf  Christ  to  create  such  a  brother- 
hood. 

I  read  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  these  words  from  one  of  the 
revelations,  section  38,  verses  24  to  27 : 

Let  every  man  esteem  his  brother  as  himself,  and  practice  virtue  and 
holiness  before  me. 

And  again  I  say  unto  you,  let  every  man  esteem  his  brother  as  himself. 

For  what  man  among  you  having  twelve  sons,  and  is  no  respecter  of 
them,  and  they  serve  him  obediently,  and  he  saith  unto  the  one:  Be  thou 
clothed  in  robes  and  sit  thou  here ;  and  to  the  other :  Be  thou  clothed  in 
rags  and  sit  thou  there — and  looketh  upon  his  sons  and  saith  I  am  just? 

Behold,  this  I  have  given  unto  you  as  a  parable,  and  it  is  even  as  I  am. 
I  say  unto  you,  be  one;  and  if  ye  are  not  one  ye  are  not  mine. 

Thank  the  Lord  that  we  are  moving  toward  that  glorious  picture 
wherein  brotherhood  is  accentuated.  The  revelation  of  the  Lord  does 
not  indicate  that  he  has  taken  up  either  the  side  of  the  rich  or  the  poor, 
and  certainly  he  is  opposed  to  selfishness  and  to  class  distinctions  and  to 
groups  interested  only  in  themselves.  Let  me  read,  from  the  fifty-sixth 
section,  what  the  Lord  has  to  say  concerning  both  groups : 

Wo  unto  you  rich  men,  that  will  not  give  your  substance  to  the  poor, 
for  your  riches  will  canker  your  souls ;  and  this  shall  be  your  lamentation 
in  the  day  of  visitation,  and  of  judgment,  and  of  indignation :  The  harvest 
is  past,  the  summer  is  ended,  and  my  soul  is  not  saved! 

But  on  the  other  hand: 

Wo  unto  you  poor  men,  whose  hearts  are  not  broken,  whose  spirits 
are  not  contrite,  and  whose  bellies  are  not  satisfied,  and  whose  hands  are 
not  stayed  from  laying  hold  upon  other  men's  goods,  whose  eyes  are  full 
of  greediness,  and  who  will  not  labor  with  your  own  hands ! 

But  blessed  are  the  poor  who  are  pure  in  heart, 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  am  sure  that  in  perfect  harmony  with  this  revelation  I  could  add  "and 
blessed  are  the  rich,  too,  who  are  pure  in  heart,  whose  hearts  are  broken, 
whose  spirits  are  contrite,  for  they  shall  see  the  kingdom  of  God  coming 
in  power  and  great  glory  unto  their  great  deliverance." 

OBLIGATION  UPON  RICH  AND  POOR 

This  indicates  an  obligation  upon  both  groups  toward  each  other, 
the  rich  and  the  poor.  While  the  Lord  provided  an  abundance  for  the 
needs  of  his  sons  and  daughters  when  he  created  the  earth,  nevertheless 
he  knew  that  some  would  be  more  frugal  and  saving  and  wiser  in  their 
accumulation  of  the  things  of  this  world,  and  others  would  be  careless 
and  indifferent  and  would  soon  come  to  want.  There  seems  to  be  some- 
thing essential  in  the  Lord's  plan  to  preserve  human  life,  and  that  even 
though  some  may  be  careless  and  not  frugal  and  saving,  they  too  shall 
have  food  and  shelter  and  clothing. 

You  will  find  the  following  recorded  in  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
Mosiah  fourth  chapter  and  seventeenth  to  nineteenth  verses. 

Perhaps  thou  shalt  say:  The  man  has  brought  upon  himself  his 
misery;  therefore  I  will  stay  my  hand,  and  will  not  give  unto  him  food,  nor 
impart  unto  him  of  my  substance  that  he  may  not  suffer,  for  his  punish- 
ments are  just. 

But  I  say  unto  you,  O  man,  whosoever  doeth  this  the  same  hath  great 
cause  to  repent;  and  except  he  repenteth  of  that  which  he  hath  done  he 
perisheth  forever,  and  hath  no  interest  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

■  For,  behold,  are  we  not  all  beggars  ?  Do  we  not  all  depend  upon  this 
same  Being,  even  God,  for  all  the  substance  which  we  have,  for  both  food 
and  raiment,  and  for  gold,  and  for  silver,  and  for  all  the  riches  which  we 
have  of  every  kind? 

That  is  in  harmony  with  another  scripture  that  says  it  is  far  better 
to  feed  nine  unworthy  ones  than  to  allow  one  to  go  hungry  and  in  want. 

The  Lord  has  therefore  set  up  a  plan  by  which  those  who  have 
may  give  to  the  assistance  of  those  who  have  not.  In  the  104th  section 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  which  we  have  quoted  often  during 
the  last  year,  as  we  have  visited  you  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  we  read: 

Therefore,  if  any  man  shall  take  of  the  abundance  which  I  have  made, 
and  impart  not  his  portion,  according  to  the  law  of  my  gospel,  unto  the 
poor  and  the  needy,  he_  shall,  with  the  wicked,  lift  up  his  eyes  in  hell,  being 
in  torment. 

The  Lord's  provision  is  not  to  take  from  a  fellowman  that  which 
he  possesses,  against  his  will,  but  with  his  whole  heart  and  in  the  spirit 
of  love  for  his  brother  he  gives  his  tithes  and  his  offerings  that  there 
may  be  sufficient  to  care  for  the  unfortunate,  for  the  needy  and  for 
those  in  distress. 

LOYALTY  WILL  BRING  SUCCESS 

The  way  the  Church  has  responded  to  the  appeals  that  have  been 
made  has  filled  my  heart  with  joy.  It  is  wonderful  what  has  been  ac- 
complished.  Yet  not  all  of  us  have  participated,  and  we  can  go  farther 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


91 


than  we  have  gone.  I  am  sure  that  if  we  shall  go  forth  with  a  resolve 
that  we  can  reach  a  minimum  of  one  dollar  per  capita  with  Fast  Offer- 
ings, it  is  possible  for  every  stake  and  every  ward  to  achieve  this.  Do 
not,  however,  regard  it  as  a  maximum  amount.  That  is  the  standard 
for  the  poorest  families  in  the  Church,  a  dollar  per  capita.  It  should 
rise  from  that  according  to  the  standard  of  the  living  of  the  membership 
of  the  Church.  Oh,  that  every  man  in  this  Church  would  pay  his  honest 
tithing ;  what  we  could  do !  Thank  the  Lord  we  have  loyal  men  that  are 
doing  this.  God  touch  the  hearts  of  those  who  haven't  the  vision  yet 
to  see  how  important  it  is  for  them  to  make  their  contribution,  thus 
establishing  right  and  claim  for  an  eternal  inheritance  for  themselves 
in  the  kingdom  of  God,  paying  their  rent  to  the  Lord,  their  honest  debt 
to  him,  and  providing  the  means  sufficient  to  care  for  the  unfortunate 
and  the  needy,  and  supporting  great  movements  of  the  Church. 

We  must  keep  our  eye  upon  these  grand  objectives.  As  the  brethren 
have  said,  the  Church  has  never  set  its  hand  to  undertake  anything  more 
important  than  the  attempt  to  solve  this  great  problem.  Now  we  have 
selfish  interests  to  combat.  I  am  sure  in  the  world  there  is  a  spirit  that 
would  array  group  against  group,  class  against  class,  but  it  must  not 
find  its  place  in  this  Church. 

ADVICE  TO  THE  POOR 

You  poor  brethren,  what  shall  you  do  ?  You  must  make  your  con- 
tribution. You  must  not  become  greedy,  nor  filled  with  complaint,  nor 
as  the  Lord  said,  having  your  eyes  full  of  greediness  and  refusing  to 
labor,  you  stand  as  condemned  before  the  Lord  as  the  rich  who  will  not 
give  to  your  help  if  you  exhibit  that  spirit  of  selfishness,  and  covetous- 
ness,  and  of  idleness.  You  must  make  your  contribution  so  that  you 
too  may  get  that  spirit  of  brotherhood  and  not  have  in  your  hearts  hatred 
toward  those  who  are  well  to  do.  The  spirit  that  is  rampant  in  our  coun- 
try must  not  find  its  way  into  the  hearts  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  get 
themselves  filled  with  such  a  venom  toward  wealth  and  toward  large 
interests  that  they  engage  in  the  unlawful  practices  that  are  so  common 
elsewhere.  Latter-day  Saints  should  be  distinguished  as  men  that  obey 
and  honor  and  respect  the  law.  I  am  sure  that  so  far  as  the  masses  of 
the  people  are  concerned,  the  world  never  had  such  blessings  and  ad- 
vantages. Let  me  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that,  so  far  as  the 
masses  are  concerned,  we  are  all  of  us  in  a  more  fortunate  condition  than 
the  world  has  ever  known.  It  is  true  that  in  this  age  of  science  and 
invention  wealth  can  be  accumulated  faster  today  than  ever  before  in 
the  history  of  this  world.  Originally  it  was  secured  by  the  enslaving 
of  human  labor,  and  the  profit  went  to  the  master  and  lord  who  supervised 
his  people  in  the  state  of  semi-slavery.  We  have  no  longer  in  the  in- 
dustrial world  the  slavery  of  men,  but  machinery  that  takes  the  place 
of  men  and  makes  it  possible  for  wealth  to  be  accumulated,  I  say,  faster 
than  at  any  period  in  the  history  of  the  world,  but  let  us  not  f  e,el  because 
we  have  not  all  become  millionaires  that  we  are  a  group  discredited  and 
that  we  are  not  getting  our  fair  deal. 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


BLESSINGS  COMMONLY  ENJOYED 

I  remember  as  a  boy  there  were  three  men  in  Logan  who  possessed 
a  surrey,  a  team  and  a  man  to  drive  the  outfit,  and  when  they  turned 
out  we  looked  with  almost  envious  eyes  upon  it  and  longed  that  we 
might  have  such  a  display  of  joy  and  satisfaction  to  travel  about  as  these 
our  fortunate  brethren.  When  I  go  to  Cache  Valley  today  I  find  ninety 
percent  of  all  the  farmers  and  brethren  in  Cache  Valley  owning  an  auto- 
mobile that  cost  more  than  that  team  and  surrey.  That  is  the  blessing  that 
has  come  to  the  common  people  that  once  only  the  rich  knew. 

In  1900  not  one  family  in  one  hundred  owned  a  horse  and  a  buggy. 
Today  three  out  of  four  have  cars.  One  family  in  thirteen  had  a  tele- 
phone. Now  one  family  in  two  have  telephones,  and  that  is  only  thirty- 
seven  years  ago.  Modern  plumbing  and  central  heating  were  luxuries. 
Less  than  five  hundred  thousand  homes  had  electricity  in  1900.  Radio 
and  electrical  refrigeration  were  unknown.  Today  twenty-one  million 
homes  are  wired  for  electricity.  Seven  million  families  own  electric 
refrigerators ;  twenty-two  million  have  radios ;  blessings  that  kings  did 
not  know  anything  about.  So  we  are  all  of  us  participants  in  the  greater 
blessings  that  have  come,  and  if  we  have  not  become  wealthy  and  inde- 
pendent and  ready  to  go  onto  easy  street,  we  are  enjoying  blessings 
beyond  any  generation  that  has  ever  lived. 

Now  then,  brethren  and  sisters,  let  the  spirit  that  was  in  our  fathers, 
that  prompted  them  to  make  sacrifice,  also  inspire  us  to  help  our  brother 
and  our  sister. 

EPISODE  FROM  FATHER'S  JOURNAL 

I  was  reading  my  father's  journal  recently  and  an  early  episode 
mentioned  was  his  response  to  a  call  from  President  Young.  My  father 
was  a  bishop  in  Cache  Valley  when  a  call  came  for  volunteers  to  go  down 
to  the  Missouri  River.  There  were  five  hundred  eighty  souls  stranded 
and  unable  to  come  to  the  valleys  of  the  mountains  and  somebody  had 
to  go  and  help  them.  My  father  writes,  "I  did  not  have  the  heart  to  call 
for  the  six  men  allotted  to  my  ward,  unless  I  responded  first."  So  he 
became  the  first  volunteer ;  left  his  farm  in  the  care  of  his  brethren,  took 
his  two  ox  teams,  drove  down  to  the  Missouri  river,  assisted  in  bringing 
the  five  hundred  eighty,  and  paid  his  own  way;  never  received  a  dol- 
lar for  it,  though  it  required  six  months  to  accomplish  it.  The  joy  that  he 
had  in  having  done  something  for  some  of  his  unfortunate  brethren  and 
sisters  was  pay  enough.  From  those  five  hundred  eighty,  countless  thou- 
sands have  come  to  own  their  own  homes,  to  live  in  these  valleys 
and  enjoy  the  benefits  of  this  wonderful  land  and  privileges  within 
the  Church.  Let  that  spirit,  therefore,  be  in  the  hearts  of  all  of  our  breth- 
ren and  sisters  today,  the  spirit  of  brotherhood. 

TROUBLE  IN  NATIONS  OF  WORLD 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  also  exceedingly  anxious  that  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  shall  not  only  distinguish  themselves  in  this  spirit  of 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


93 


brotherhood,  that  we  love  our  brethren,  but  that  we  love  them  sufficiently 
to  save  them  from  humiliation  and  from  sorrow  and  distress  that  will 
come  unless  we  assist  them  in  the  solution  of  their  economic  problems. 
I  am  also  anxious  that  we  shall  distinguish  ourselves  in  a  time  when  the 
whole  world  seems  to  be  running  wild  with  a  spirit  of  change.  When 
the  war' had  ended,  many  of  us  rejoiced  to  see  nation  after  nation  abandon 
monarchial  forms  of  government  and  establish  democracies,  and,  we 
thought,  this  is  truly  the  beginning  of  the  golden  age  for  the  world.  Then 
we  discovered  with  sorrow  that  there  was  much  lacking  to  prepare  the 
nations,  that  had  been  for  ages  under  kings  and  monarchies,  to  be  ready 
for  a  democracy.  They  could  not  stand  the  trial  of  poverty  and  dis- 
tress, and  capitalizing  upon  the  people's  distresses  there  arose  leaders 
that  overthrew  these  democracies  and  they  established  dictatorships  that 
will  not  bring  this  world  to  its  peace,  nor  will  they  liberate  these  people 
but  will  enslave  them,  and  they  will  never  go  forward  under  the  plan  of 
either  communism  or  fascism  that  robs  men  of  their  liberties,  of  their 
property  and  political  rights. 

America's  destiny 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  as  we  see  them,  therefore  abandoning 
these  democracies  the  whole  attention  of  the  world  is  focused  upon  the 
great  democracy  of  the  world,  America.  Shall  it  stand ;  shall  it  survive  ? 
Yes,  because  the  Lord  God  of  Heaven  has  established  it.  I  am  not 
afraid  of  outside  enemies.  All  the  perils  that  threaten  this  country 
shall  be  from  within.  There  shall  never  come  any  disaster  nor  distress 
that  shall  destroy  America  from  the  outside,  if  the  peoples  of  this  land 
shall  rally  to  the  standards  established  by  our  fathers,  and  maintain  the 
stability  of  the  Constitution  and  the  law,  and  the  order  established  in  this 
land  wherein  our  fathers  long  ago  agreed  that  the  will  of  the  majority 
expressed  in  laws  shall  be  obeyed  by  the  minority. 

God  help  us  as  Latter-day  Saints  to  be  found  still  standing  by  these 
standards  and  loyally  supporting  the  law  and  order  and  the  great  de- 
mocracy established  here,  that  it  may  live  for  the  blessing  of  all  flesh,  as 
the  Lord  has  decreed  it ;  for  after  days  of  sorrow  and  trial  and  dictator- 
ships, the  world  will  be  prepared,  by  and  by,  for  the  fruits  and  the  bless- 
ings of  the  democracy  that  shall  survive  in  America. 

THE  KINGDOM  OF  GOD  TO  BE  ESTABLISHED 

Yes,  I  agree  that  there  are  troublesome  times,  days  of  sorrow  and 
distress  ahead  of  the  world,  and  that  the  devil  is  in  the  world  grasping 
to  maintain  his  power,  yet  the  Lord  God  of  Heaven  has  established  his 
kingdom,  and  he  is  in  the  world  with  it,  and  it  shall  be  triumphant  and 
victorious.  The  Lord  help  us  to  adhere  to  these  glorious  principles,  and 
we  shall  fulfil  the  prophecies  of  old  wherein  they  declare  that  the  ends  of 
the  world,  the  east  and  the  west  and  the  north  and  the  south  shall  say, 
"Come  ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain  of  the  Lord,  to  the  house  of 
the  God  of  Jacob ;  and  he  will  teach  us  of  his  ways,  and  we  will  walk  in 
his  paths." 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Zion  arise  and  shine.    Thy  day  hath  come. 

God  help  us  to  prove  to -a  world  that  is  doubtfuland  skeptical  about 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  in  the  real  Gospel,  restored  with  its 
power  and  its  authority,  there  is  a  virility  and  strength  sufficient  to 
meet  and  to  solve  human  problems,  and  let  us  go  gloriously  toward  our 
destiny,  as  the  Lord  hath  pointed  it  out,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ABEL  S.  RICH 

President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

It  is  indeed  a  pleasure  to  join  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  this  great 
Conference  again.  I  have  been  inspired  by  the  beautiful  music  and  by 
the  clarity  with  which  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  have  been  presented 
to  us  by  our  President, and  by  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church. 

I  am  happy  to  see  the  feeling  of  friendship  and  social  fraternity 
that  exists  among  our  Latter-day  Saints.  I  think  its  equal  cannot  be 
found  in  any  other  group  in  the  world.  It  is  based  on  what  Jesus  called 
a  mark  of  a  true  disciple,  when  in  speaking  to  his  Apostles  he  said: 

By  this  shall  all  men  know  that  ye  are  my  disciples,  if  ye  have 
love  one  to  another. 

You  faithful  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  are  preaching 
the  Gospel  beautifully  to  the  world.  The  broadcasts  from  this  historic 
building  and  organ,  the  fine  sermonettes  that  come  from  Brother  Evans, 
your  work  on  the  Social  Security  Program,  have  reached  people  in 
Eastern  Canada  and  touched  their  hearts,  who  have  never  heretofore 
found  interest  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

This  letter  came  to  me  this  morning.  It  was  directed  to  the  Temple 
grounds  here,  and  forwarded  to  me  by  Brother  Peery.  It  suggests  what 
some  of  these  things  are  doing  in  the  world.  The  letter  is  from  a  young 
college  student,  who  takes  her  Bachelor's  degree  this  spring  from  the 
Farmington  Normal  State  School  of  Maine,  and  says,  in  part: 

I  saw  the  March  of  Time  the  other  night,  telling  how  you  have  been 
meeting  the  economic  difficulties  there.  I  was  fascinated  with  it.  Living 
here  in  the  east,  I  have  never  contacted  real  historical  information  con- 
cerning the  Mormons,  and  now  I  would  like  very  much  to  know  some- 
thing of  their  history. 

On  my  recent  tour  of  the  mission,  when  I  reached  St.  John,  New 
Brunswick,  a  city  where  we  had  been  unable  to  make  many  contacts  or 
get  much  favorable  newspaper  work  done,  a  reporter  called  and  asked  me 
if  I  had  anything  that  would  interest  the  people  of  St.  John,  after  he 
has  asked  me  what  my  mission  was.  I  told  him  that  I  felt  that  I  did 
have  something  that  would  interest  the  people  of  St.  John,  and  would 
be  glad  to  give  it  to  him  if  he  would  come  to  my  room.  He  came  and  I 
gave  him  some  of  the  facts  about  the  Social  Security  Program,  something 
of  the  way  it  had  worked  out.  Then  he  said :   "That  sounds  like  a  fairy 


ELDER  ABEL  S.  RICH 


95 


story."  When  I  assured  him  that  it  was  the  truth  he  said :  "It  is  won- 
derful. I  have  not  heard  anything  like  it.  But,"  he  said,  "how  do  you 
get  your  people  to  do  those  things  ?"  I  was  pleased  to  tell  him  that  the 
secret  of  the  response  lay  in  the  fact  that  the  membership  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  look  upon  their  President  as  a 
prophet  of  God,  who  speaks  the  will  of  God  to  his  people. 

The  same  spirit  of  friendliness  and  love  so  manifest  in  the  gathering 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  here  is  found  in  the  branches  of  the  Church  in 
the  world,  which  indicates  that  the  secret  lies,  not  in  people  or  in  their 
place  of  residence,  but  in  the  principles  of  the  restored  Gospel.  This 
knowledge  gives  zest  to  missionary  work :  to  realize  fully  that  the  mes- 
sage of  the  Gospel  gives  purpose  to  life,  and  enthusiasm  for  living,  an 
interest  in  the  welfare  of  other  people,  resulting  in  the  growth  and 
happiness  of  the  individual,  gives  courage  to  the  missionary  to  carry  on 
even  under  many  discouragements. 

The  missionaries  throughout  our  mission  are  well,  and  are  a  happy 
group,  thoroughly  enjoying  their  work.  They  are  fine  examples  of  what 
the  Gospel  does  for  people.  Their  buoyant  happiness,  their  courage  and 
kindly  interest  in  the  welfare  of  the  people  teach  well  the  fruits  of 
Mormonism.  You  parents  are  to  be  congratulated  on  the  home  training 
of  these  fine  young  men  and  women. 

It  is  my  opinion  that  none  of  our  fine  institutions  can  take  the  place 
of  the  home  in  training  young  people  in  the  formation  of  ideals  and 
correct  attitudes.  If  missionaries  come  into  the  field  with  the  right  at- 
titude and  ideals,  and  if  they  have  been  taught  the  value  of  unselfish 
service,  and  have  grown  up  in  a  home  where  reverence  has  been  shown 
for  the  Gospel,  and  where  its  principles  have  been  practiced,  they  have 
that  which  makes  them  successful  missionaries. 

If  they  can  have  added  to  these  fine  essentials  some  definite  knowl- 
edge of  the  Gospel  principles,  they  are  so  much  better  equipped  for  their 
work.  Many  come  to  us  knowing  but  little  of  the  Gospel,  and  little  of  the 
art  of  meeting  people.  I  have  sometimes  wondered  if  in  our  homes,  as 
Latter-day  Saints,  we  could  not  do  more  by  way  of  teaching  the  Gospel 
to  these  young  people,  that  they  might  come  to  this  important  work  just 
a  little  better  prepared. 

Missionaries  who  have  some  definite  training  in  music,  public  speak- 
ing and  reading,  have  opportunities  to  meet  clubs  and  social  groups,  that 
help  very  materially  in  getting  our  message  before  people  in  such  fashion 
that  they  will  listen. 

On  reaching  the  mission  field  the  missionary  is  thrown  largely  on 
his  own  resourcefulness  and  initiative.  This  causes  him  to  study  with 
a  definite  purpose,  and  creates  in  him  a  humility  and  a  dependence  upon 
God,  that  accounts  largely  for  the  marvelous  growth  that  he  makes 
during  the  mission  period. 

These  lines  from  Ella  Wheeler  Wilcox  well  characterize,  I  think, 
the  life  of  the  missionary,  wherein  she  says: 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Lean  on  thyself  until  thy  strength  is  tried, 
Then  ask  God's  help,  it  will  not  be  denied. 
Use  thine  own  sight  to  see  the  way  to  go ; 
When  darkness  falls  ask  God  the  path  to  show. 
Think  for  thyself  and  reason  out  thy  plan ; 
God  has  his  work,  and  thou  hast  thine. 
Exert  thy  will  and  use  self-control 
God  gave  thee  jurisdiction  of  thy  soul. 
All  thy  immortal  powers  bring  into  play ; 
Think,  act,  strive,  look  up  and  pray. 

No  matter  what  our  station  in  life,  the  blessings  of  the  Gospel  are 
dependent  upon  our  individual  response  to  it.  Its  blessings  and  promises 
and  requirements  have  remained  much  the  same  throughout  the  ages,  and 
the  joy  and  happiness  based  on  its  principles  have  been  enjoyed  only  by 
those  who  have  made  the  Gospel  a  living,  active  part  of  their  daily  lives. 

Speaking  through  'the  writer  of  the  book  of  Revelation,  the  Master 
commended  the  Saints  for  much  of  their  fine  living,  and  then  he  made 
these  promises  to  the  seven  churches,  and  I  believe  they  have  eternal 
values : 

To  him  that  overcometh  will  I  give  to  eat  of  the  tree  of  life,  which  is 
in  the  midst  of  the  paradise  of  God,  and  .  .  . 
He  shall  not  be  hurt  of  the  second  death. 

And  he  that  overcometh  and  keepeth  my  works  unto  the  end,  to  him 
will  I  give  power  over  the  nations,  and  he  shall  rule  them.  .  .  . 

He  that  overcometh  the  same  shall  be  clothed  in  white  raiment ;  and  I 
will  not  blot  out  his  name  out  of  the  book  of  life,  but  I  will  confess  his  name 
before  my  Father  and  before  his  angels  

Him  that  overcometh  will  I  make  a  pillar  in  the  temple  of  my  God, 

and  then  finally  he  concludes  by  saying: 

I  counsel  thee  to  buy  of  me  gold  tried  in  the  fire,  that  thou  mayest  be 
rich,  and  white  raiment,  that  thou  mayest  be  clothed  .  .  .  and  anoint  thine 
eyes  with  eyesalve,  that  thou  mayest  see. 

The  present  condition  of  the  world  indicates  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  should  see  the  necessity  of  the  possession  of  this  gold  that  has 
been  tried  in  the  fire,  and  of  this  salve  with  which  to  anoint  our  eyes. 
Within  the  Gospel  principles  is  found  the  gold  that  has  been  tried  in  the 
fire,  and  in  the  inspiration  of  our  leadership  and  the  authority  of  the 
Priesthood  and  the  blessings  of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  this  salve  with 
which  to  anoint  our  eyes,  that  we  may  see,  and  seeing,  find  the  way  to 
peace,  security  and  happiness. 

I  am  happy  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  My  testimony  and  love 
for  it  grow  as, I  see  its  influence  on  people. 

May  the  Lord  bless  our  leaders  and  us,  that  each  of  us  may  do 
fully  our  part  of  this  great  work,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  Singing  Mothers  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Prayer 
is  the  Soul's  Sincere  Desire." 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


97 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  Eirst  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Recently  I  had  the  pleasure  of  visiting  the  Texas  Mission.  President 
Peterson  was  ill  and  has  since  been  released  to  return  home.  It  is 
regrettable  that  it  becomes  necessary  every  once  in  a  while  to  release 
missionaries  on  account  of  the  condition  of  their  health. 

President  and  Sister  Peterson  have  certainly  done  excellent  work  in 
the  Texas  Mission.  They  have  the  love  and  confidence  of  the  Saints  and 
the  missionaries.  The  Saints  have  been  greatly  blessed  by  the  Lord  in 
having  such  fine  people  to  preside  over  them. 

There  were  two  things  that  interested  me  particularly  while  in  the 
mission  field.  The  first  was  the  integrity  and  the  good  spirit  manifested 
by  the  Saints  in  trying  to  do  what  they  could  in  preaching  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  They  are  interested  in  having  the  message  go  to  other 
people,  and  they  give  of  their  time,  and  their  energy,  and  their  money,  in 
order  that  they  may  be  helpful  in  the  progress  of  the  Lord's  work  here 
upon  the  earth. 

In  one  field  I  found  a  man,  formerly  from  Wyoming,  who,  in  order 
to  go  to  Sunday  School,  found  it  necessary  to  travel  thirty  miles  each 
way.  He  got  into  his  car  with  his  family,  and  as  they  proceeded  up  the 
valley  they  picked  up  other  members  of  the  Church  and  drove  thirty  miles 
in  order  to  worship  the  Lord  on  the  Sabbath  day  . 

I  not  only  had  the  privilege  of  attending  the  district  conferences, 
but  I  had  the  opportunity  of  visiting  in  some  of  the  very  small  towns 
where  the  missionaries  have  been  sent  to  labor,  and  where  they  had 
found  some  investigators,  and  where  a  few  Saints  live. 

In  going  to  one  of  these  very  small  places  the  presiding  Elder  of 
that  district  asked  me  if  I  would  accept  an  invitation  to  eat  in  the  hqme 
of  one  of  the  Saints.  I  told  him  I  would  be  very  delighted  to  visit  among 
the  people.  He  said,  "Well,  Brother  Taylor,  I  would  like  to  say  this, 
before  you  accept  the  invitation,  the  place  where  you  are  going  is  a  very 
humble  home,  and  they  haven't  been  blessed  with  all  of  the  comforts  that 
other  people  have  been  blessed  with."  I  told  him  I  would  like  to  go  and 
would  be  delighted  to  visit  with  them. 

When  I  went  to  this  home  it  was  indeed  a  very  humble  place,  with 
but  few  of  the  usual  comforts  that  men  and  women  are  entitled  to. 
When  I  went  into  the  house  I  found  that  one  of  the  men  was  very  much 
interested  in  carrying  the  message  of  the  Gospel  to  other  people  and  had  a 
supply  of  tracts.  He  would  go  out  in  the  day  time  and  perform  his 
usual  labor,  and  then  at  night  he  would  go  out  and  leave  tracts  and  do 
regular  missionary  work  among  the  people. 

When  we  sat  down  to  a  meal,  it  was  very  humble,  but  good.  The 
table  was  small,  and  it  was  necessary  for  some  of  the  family  to  stand 
up.  Because  I  was  visiting  among  them  they  went  out  and  purchased 
a  few  cup  cakes.  I  am  doubtful  whether  they  had  had  cup  cakes  in  the 
house  for  a  long  time. 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


In  the  course  of  our  conversation,  this  good  man  who  was  doing  so 
much  for  the  Church,  and  loved  those  who  had  been  appointed  to  preside 
in  certain  places  in  the  Church,  said  that  tomorrow  he  and  his  brother 
expected  to  lose  their  jobs,  and  yet  he  was  entertaining  me  as  one  of  the 
servants  of  the  Lord,  and  also  going  out  day  and  night  in  order  to 
preach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  As  I  traveled  among  the  people  I 
found  the  same  spirit,  a  spirit  of  sacrifice  and  of  helpfulness. 

The  other  thing  that  came  to  my  attention  was  the  attitude  of  the 
people  toward  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  or  toward  Christianity  in 
general.  They  still  have  the  same  opinions  that  they  had  in  the  days 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  as  long  as  they  have  a  desire  to 
worship  the  Lord  and  are  doing  the  best  they  can,  eventually  the  Lord 
will  take  care  of  them  when  they  get  on  the  other  side.  So  to  them  the 
Gospel  only  means  doing  some  of  the  finer  things  that  men  and  women 
should  do,  and  somehow  they  just  cannot  understand  that  in  religion 
there  must  be  a  certain  way  of  worshiping  God  the  Eternal  Father,  a 
right  way,  a  correct  way. 

It  seems  to  me  that  in  this  enlightened  age  when  perhaps  we  think 
better  and  reason  better,  the  people  of  the  world  ought  to  be  able  to 
understand  that  if  there  is  a  right  way  of  doing  everything  else  on  the 
earth,  that  there  could  only  be  one  right  way  of  worshiping  God. 

You  remember  when  Joseph  Smith,  as  a  boy,  had  been  to  church  and 
had  gone  home  to  reason  things  out  for  himself,  that  even  he,  as  a  young 
boy,  could  see  and  understand  that  there  must  be  a  certain  way  of 
worshiping  God.  In  his  reasoning  he  said :  "I  will  go  and  ask  the  Lord 
which  of  all  the  churches  is  right."  He  also  said:  "Or  are  they  all 
wrong  together?"  He  could  see  that  there  must  be  a  right  way,  a  true 
church  on  the  earth,  or  else  perhaps  that  all  the  churches  might  be  wrong. 

If  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  as  a  boy,  could  reason  that  way,  it 
seems  to  me  that  other  men  and  women,  with  the  intelligence  and  develop- 
ment that  they  have,  ought  to  be  able  to  understand  that  God  also  has  a 
correct  way  of  worshiping  Him.  If  they  think  they  can  find  this  way  by 
reading  the  Bible,  they  will  be  disappointed  because  the  Bible  isn't  com- 
plete enough  for  anyone  to  find  the  correct  way.  There  are  too  many 
things  in  the  Bible  that  are  not  plain  and  will  not  explain  the  way  of  the 
Lord  in  its  fulness. 

When  the  Lord  spoke  to  Joseph  Smith,  He  did  not  send  him  to 
the  Bible  and  say:  "Organize  my  Church  and  develop  it,  and  use  the 
Bible  for  your  standard."  That  was  not  sufficient.  Joseph  Smith  could 
not  have  done  it,  because  the  holy  scriptures,  as  we  have  them  today,  are 
not  sufficiently  clear  in  many  details.  So  the  Lord  gave  Joseph  Smith 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  and  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  in  order  to  avoid  the  confusion  that  had  resulted  from  men 
trying  to  organize  a  church  with  only  the  Bible  as  their  guide. 

Even  in  our  day,  with  the  four  standard  works  of  the  Church,  we 
are  not  successful  in  our  worship  of  the  Lord,  without  our  prophets, 
seers  and  revelators  to  receive  inspiration  and  revelation  from  God  day 


ELDER  HAROLD  W.  PRATT 


99 


by  day,  in  order  that  we  may  constantly  know  the  Lord's  mind  and  will 
concerning  us. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  help  us  to 
appreciate  the  Gospel  and  the  fine  things  that  have  come  to  us,  that  we 
may  serve  him  in  spirit  and  in  truth,  I  pray,  in  Jesus'  name,  Amen. 

ELDER  HAROLD  W.  PRATT 

President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

My  very  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  deeply  and  sincerely  appre- 
ciate the  opportunity  of  mingling  with  you  in  this  great  Conference.  I 
believe  that  perhaps  I  appreciate  it  more  greatly  due  to  the  fact  that  after 
having  been  here  continuously  for  three  years  or  two  years  and  a  half, 
I  was  unable  to  attend  the  last  Conference,  and  thus  I  come  this  morning 
to  this  Conference  with  a  renewed  interest,  having  realized  what  it  means 
to  be  absent. 

I  sincerely  and  humbly  pray,  this  morning,  for  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers,  that  I  may  be  guided  in  what  few  words  I  say  and 
what  little  time  I  occupy,  to  say  something  that  will  be  of  benefit  to  all 
of  you,  and  that  will  help  us,  as  members  of  this  great  Church,  to  more 
fully  discharge  our  responsibilities  to  the  world. 

Sister  Pratt  and  I  are  greatly  enjoying  our  labors  in  Mexico,  for 
since  the  division  of  the  mission  in  July  of  last  year  we  have  moved  our 
headquarters  to  Mexico  City,  and  we  are  greatly  enjoying  our  labors 
there.  There  is  just  one  point  of  regret,  and  that  is  that  this  move 
prohibits  us  from  enjoying  the  association  of  the  great  number  of  the 
youth  of  Zion  who  came  and  labored  with  us  in  the  border  states,  among 
the  Mexican  people ;  for  in  Mexico  we  are  not  permitted  to  bring  mission- 
aries from  the  stakes  of  Zion,  and  our  few  missionaries  are  made  up 
of  young  people  from  the  Juarez  Stake  and  from  the  membership  of 
the  mission  itself.  We  feel  thus  that  we  are  deprived  of  a  great  pleasure 
in  association  with  a  cross  section  of  the  youth  of  Zion  coming  from  the 
different  stakes. 

We  have  been  told  during  this  Conference,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
of  the  picture  that  seems  to  be  forecast  as  to  conditions  in  the  world  and 
what  is  about  to  happen.  This  is  a  rather  gloomy  picture.  Perhaps  we 
who  are  in  foreign  missions — I  might  say  especially  in  Mexico,  where  the 
connection  with  Spain  at  the  present  time  brings  the  battlefield  so  very 
close — see  and  realize  the  possibilities  of  the  development  of  this  gloomy 
chaotic  picture  that  has  been  painted  for  us.  We  realize  that  it  can, 
with  very  great  difficulty,  be  averted.  The  world  seems  bound  headlong 
for  a  chaotic,  dark  state  of  night,  where  darkness  and  confusion  indeed 
will,  as  they  in  fact  do  today,  cover  the  nations  of  the  earth. 

I  feel,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we,  the  Latter-day  Saints,  have 
a  great  responsibility  in  this  time  of ,  darkness  and  confusion,  a  responsi- 
bility that  was  given  to  us  in  a  direct  charge  by  our  Master  two  thousand 
years  ago,  in  which  he  said : 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Ye  are  the  salt  of  the  earth :  but  if  the  salt  have  lost  his  savour,  where- 
with shall  it  be  salted  ?  *  *  * 

Ye  are  the  light  of  the  world.  A  city  that  is  set  on  a  hill  cannot  be  hid. 

Neither  do  men  light  a  candle,  and  put  it  under  a  bushel,  but  on  a 
candlestick;  and  it  giveth  light  unto  all  that  are  in  the  house. 

Let  your  light  so  shine  before  men,  that  they  may  see  your  good  works, 
and  glorify  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven. 

It  has  been  pointed  out  to  us  during  this  Conference  that  we  have, 
indeed,  that  which  will  guide  the  world  in  the  solution  of  its  problems 
today,  and  as  you  cast  about  over  the  world  you  will  find  nowhere  else 
this  light  that  can  lead  the  world  in  the  solution  of  its  problems.  Only 
through  our  living  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  and 
letting  our  light  so  shine  that  men  see  our  good  works,  can  we  be  a  light 
to  the  world  and  help  them  through  this  hour  of  darkness. 

I  should  like  each  of  you  to  imagine  a  great  chandelier  with  hun- 
dreds of  thousands  of  small  globes,  with  a  rather  intricate,  yet,  when 
understood,  simple  design,  through  which  each  of  those  globes  is  con- 
nected with  the  main  wire  which  brings  the  current  from  the  power- 
house, to  supply  the  power  for  the  lighting  of  those  globes.  Compare 
this,  in  your  minds,  to  the  organization  of  the  Church.  Our  Father  in 
heaven,  the  power  house,  is  supplying  the  power  coming  to  us  through  the 
medium  of  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  transmitting  it  to  their  representative 
here  upon  the  earth,  our  prophet,  seer  and  revelator ;  through  him  dis- 
seminated to  the  General  Authorities ;  from  them  to  our  stake  presidents ; 
from  the  stake  presidents  to  our  bishops,  or  in  the  missions  to  the  mission 
presidents  and  to  the  branch  presidents ;  through  them  to  the  different 
auxiliary  heads  in  the  wards  and  to  the  block  teachers.  Thus  each  of  us, 
every  member  of  this  Church,  if  we  are  in  harmony  with  this  organiza- 
tion, may  connect  our  lamp  to  the  source  of  power,  and  gain  that  strength 
and  that  current  which  will  make  our  light  so  shine  that  men,  seeing  our 
good  works,  will  come  to  glorify  our  Father  which  is  in  heaven. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  are  indeed 
connected  with  the  source  of  divine  power,  that  will  guide  us  in  these 
days  of  confusion ;  and  that  if  we  do  keep  ourselves  connected  to  this 
organization  we  will  each  be  a  light  that  will  shine  in  our  own  corner, 
and  will  guide  men  in  their  struggle  during  these  troublous  times. 

But  if  any  of  us  fail  to  uphold  our  immediate  superiors,  if  we 
criticise  our  local  officers,  if  we  become  out  of  harmony  with  them,  then 
we  shall  be  cut  off  from  the  source  of  power,  and  will  not  shine ;  in  fact, 
we  will  be  left  in  darkness. 

It  has  been  my  sad  experience,  during  the  past  year,  since  I  last 
met  with  you  here,  to  see  a  group  of  Saints  sever  their  connection  with 
the  source  of  divine  power,  and  to  see  their  lights  go  out  and  to  see  them 
left  in  darkness;  and  others,  who  were  depending  upon  them  for  the 
light,  to  lose  their  way  and  wander  in  the  wilderness  of  confusion  and 
ignorance.  These  men  did  not  criticise  President  Grant.  They  main- 
tained that  they  accepted  and  upheld  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church.   But  they  did  not  like  their  district  president,  and  they  criticised 


ELDER  REUBEN  M.  WIBERG 


101 


their  mission  president,  and  they  continued  on  until  they  refused  to  ac- 
cept and  uphold  and  sustain  those  who  were  placed  over  them  in  that 
locality,  and  today,  as  I  say,  they  are  left  in  darkness,  to  wander  in  the 
wilderness  of  apostasy. 

I  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we,  as  members  of  the  Church, 
will  sustain  and  uphold,  support  and  magnify  each  and  every  officer  in 
the  Church — the  General  Authorities,  beginning  with  President  Grant, 
his  counselors,  the  quorum  of  the  Twelve,  the  Seven  Presidents  of 
Seventy,  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  the  general  boards  of  the  auxiliary  or- 
ganizations, our  stake  organizations,  our  ward  organizations — that  each 
of  us  may  indeed  keep  himself  connected  to  that  source  of  divine  power 
that  will  permit  our  light  so  to  shine  that  men,  seeing  our  good  works, 
will  come  to  glorify  our  Father  which  is  in  heaven,  and  will  find  the 
solution,  through  us,  of  the  problems  that  face  the  world  today. 

I  pray  the  blessings  of  our  heavenly  Father  to  be  with  you,  to  be  with 
all  of  us  in  the  discharge  of  our  respective  responsibilities  in  this  great 
plan,  and  I  do  so  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  REUBEN  M.  WIBERG 

Former  President  of  the  Tongan  Mission 

If  it  were  possible  to  get  a  group  such  as  this  one  together  in  the 
Tongan  Islands,  one  could  say  that  he  was  speaking  to  nearly  fifty  per 
cent,  of  the  population.  From  that  you  will  readily  understand  that 
Tonga  is  only  a  mere  spot  in  the  South  Seas.  One  writer,  having  visited 
that  place,  put  it  in  words  something  like  this : 

Have  you  heard  of  Tonga, 

That  lone  Pacific  realm 

Where  a  queen  rules  in  splendor, 

By  Great  Britain's  saving  grace, 

Where  parliament  meets  biennially  only, 

And  then  just  meets  to  eat? 

It  is  quite  a  lengthy  little  poem,  if  you  would  call  it  that.  He 
pictures  some  of  the  things  that  were  nevertheless  true,  but  are  not  true 
at  the  present  time. 

Though  it  is  a  very  small  and  perhaps  insignificant  kingdom,  even 
in  the  legislative  set-up  and  the  government,  there  are  many  virtues  that 
I  feel  are  worthy  of  mention. 

We  are  inaugurating  a  Church  Security  Program  here  in  our  Church, 
and  we  have  already  heard  in  this  Conference  of  comment  that  has  come 
from  people  outside  of  the  United  States,  and  from  prominent  men  of 
our  country,  who  are  not  of  our  faith,  who- feel  that  it  is  a  wonderful 
thing. 

In  a  smaller  sense,  perhaps,  there  is  something  very  remarkable 
about  the  kingdom  of  Tonga  and  its  government.  All  of  the  land  is 
owned  by  the  government.  When  a  young  man  becomes  of  the  age  of 
sixteen  he  may  register  at  the  Minister  of  Lands  office  and  receive  a  por- 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


tion  of  land  sufficient  for  his  maintenance,  even  if  he  has  a  large  family, 
and  most  of  them  do. 

Whether  or  not  a  person  registers  for  land  at  that  age,  he  becomes 
taxable,  and  every  person  is  taxed  alike.  He  may  accept  that  offer  of  a 
portion  of  land  sufficient  for  his  keep,  or  he  may  not.  Fortunate  for 
the  one  who  accepts  it,  because  if  he  is  in  any  mood  at  all  to  be  aggressive 
he  can  take  care  of  that  and  much  more,  and  also  go  into  other  activities 
as  much  as  he  will. 

I  am  very  happy  and  pleased  with  this  opportunity,  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  I  didn't  think  the  call  would  come  a  second  time.  It  has  been 
a  year,  nearly,  since  I  returned,  and  I  was  not  in  attendance  when  my 
name  was  called  in  the  October  Conference. 

I  would  like  to  say  this  to  the  brethren  and  sisters  here  assembled, 
respecting  the  people  of  Tonga — perhaps  on  your  maps  you  will  more 
readily  find  this  little  kingdom  under  the  name  of  the  Friendly  Islands — 
when  our  boys,  your  sons,  go  to  that  field  to  labor  they  are  among  a  class 
of  the  most  friendly  people,  I  believe,  that  I  have  ever  met.  I  think 
to  a  great  extent  the  people  there  are  friendly,  having  overcome  their 
prejudice  of  years  past  when  the  work  was  in  its  beginning.  One  would 
be  impressed,  almost  immediately,  with  the  friendliness  of  that  people. 
The  missionaries  are  taken  in,  even  by  those  who  are  not  of  the  Faith, 
and  even  by  those  who  are  under  restraint  by  their  religious  leaders  and 
advised  not  to  accept  literature  or  to  tolerate  the  visit  of  a  Mormon  Elder, 
but  invariably  they  make  the  Elders  feel  welcome. 

During  my  brief  mission  there,  presiding  over  that  kingdom,  as  far 
as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  concerned,  I  made 
a  request  and  the  response  was  almost  immediate,  and  equipment  was 
sent  there  for  a  visual  means  of  teaching  the  Gospel,  although  we  don't 
have  much  electricity  in  that  country,  other  than  that  which  can  be 
obtained  from  a  car  battery  or  some  other  kind  of  battery.  We  rigged  up 
and  managed  to  produce  little  films  to  show  those  people  some  of  the 
things  that  they  may  never  have  the  opportunity  of  seeing  here  at  home, 
and  also  many  things  that  go  to  prove  the  divinity  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. Although  that  book  is  not  in  print  and  has  not  been  published  in 
that  language,  they  are  very  familiar  with  it,  because  it  seems  even  with 
that  handicap  the  Elders  avail  themselves  of  every  opportunity  to  teach 
the  contents  of  that  wonderful  book.  They  hope  some  time,  though  they 
are  very  few  in  number  and  the  cost  would  be  great  to  publish  that  book, 
that  they  may  be  enabled  to  assist  in  bringing  it  forth  in  printed  form. 

It  was  also  my  privilege  to  labor  in  that  mission  at  a  time  when  mis- 
sionaries were  very  scarce,  in  fact,  so  scarce  at  one  time  that  I  was  the 
only  Elder  upon  the  mainland,  and  there  was  one  Elder  in  one  district  of 
that  mission  260  miles  away.  We  communicated  by  mail,  which  is  any- 
thing but  speedy  in  that  part  of  the  world. 

During  that  period  it  became  necessary,  as  you  will  understand,  to 
call  local  people  into  responsible  positions  to  carry  on  and  officiate  in  the 
work  of  the  Lord.  During  that  period  we  had  twenty-two  branch 
presidents,  all  of  them  local  men.   We  had  three  district  presidents,  all 


ELDER  REUBEN  M.  WIBERG 


103 


of  them  local  men.  We  had  officers  and  teachers  in  all  of  the  auxiliary 
organizations,  who  were  local  men  and  women. 

During  that  period  I  believe  that  a  keener  sense  of  responsibility 
was  felt  among  the  Priesthood  of  that  mission  than  ever  before.  In  fact, 
when  I  went  into  the  mission  there  were  a  number  of  branch  presidents 
who  thought  their  only  responsibility  was  to  conduct  the  meetings.  They 
couldn't  tell  you  how  many  members  they  had  in  the  branch  where  they 
were,  or  very  much  about  them.  They  did  report  that  they  had  held  a 
sacramental  meeting  at  such  and  such  a  time,  regularly  every  Sunday,  and 
that  was  about  all. 

Many  of  those  men  developed  a  sense  of  responsibility  in  a  short 
time,  where  they  felt  that  they  were  actually  the  father  of  that  little 
branch,  and  they  paid  regular  visits  to  their  members  especially  those  who 
were  delinquent,  and  the  work  developed  and  prospered  under  their 
leadership. 

President  Dunn,  who  has  succeeded  me,  was  a  former  companion 
upon  my  first  mission  in  that  nation.  I  almost  knew  that  he  would  be 
my  successor,  when  I  went  into  the  field,  and  he  felt  the  same,  according 
to  our  correspondence  while  we  were  separated,  he  on  this  side  and  I  on 
the  other  side.  It  was  one  of  the  most  pleasant  days  of  my  life  to  meet 
Brother  Dunn  and  welcome  him  into  the  Tongan  Mission,  for  I  know  his 
worth  and  his  ability  as  a  leader  among  that  class  of  people,  whom  he 
loves  and  whom  I  love.  I  believe  that  every  missionary  who  goes  there, 
unless  something  is  wrong  with  the  missionary,  learns  to  love  those  people. 

A  great  deal  could  be  said  about  that  fine  mission,  even  though  it  is 
the  smallest  we  have,  but  I  feel,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  perhaps 
for  the  one  minute  that  I  have  left  I  would  like  to  speak  primarily  of 
the  feeling  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  there  toward  the  people  at  home, 
the  families  of  the  missionaries,  and  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church. 

It  is  not  an  infrequent  thing,  in  our  little  district  conferences  and  in 
our  mission  conferences,  especially  when  an  elder  is  leaving,  that  many 
of  the  officers  of  the  branches,  the  Relief  Society  sisters  and  others, 
will  come  to  the  missionary  and  ask  him  to  convey  their  heartfelt  appre- 
ciation to  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  to  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  to 
the  presidents  of  the  organizations,  for  through  the  organizations  and 
through  correspondence  and  advice  that  come  from  the  General  Author- 
ities, conveyed  to  them  through  the  mission  president  and  agencies  there, 
they  feel  that  they  are  just  as  close,  I  believe,  as  the  people  in  the 
Western  States  Mission  or  in  any  other  mission  of  the  Church  here  at 
home. 

They  are  eager  to  know  all  of  the  advances  and  all  of  the  plans  that 
are  made  by  the  Church.  They  have  always  been  found  to  be  willing 
to  work  in  harmony,  sustaining  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
and  their  desires. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  may  be  and  abide  continuously  with  those 
people  in  the  South  Seas,  and  that  the  work  may  grow  and  progress. 
It  is  a  comparatively  new  mission,  having  been  organized  in  1917,  and  a 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


few  years  after  its  organization,  by  legislative  act,  a  law  was  passed 
forbidding  Mormon  Elders  to  enter  that  kingdom — not  only  Mormon 
Elders,  but  any  Mormons — and  under  that  handicap,  for  a  period  of  two 
years  we  labored  without  missionaries  coming  into  the  field. 

At  the  time  of  my  departure  from  that  mission  in  1925,  there  were 
only  the  Mission  President  and  his  wife  left,  with  one  district  president 
and  one  missionary  to  preside  over  each  of  the  other  two  districts.  For- 
tunately, en  route  to  American  Samoa,  Pago  Pago,  I  met  the  first  incom- 
ing missionary. 

In  1924,  almost  by  means  that  were  uncanny,  that  legislative  act 
was  repealed,  and  Mormons  again  were  granted  the  liberty  to  come  in. 
They  are  glad  now  to  have  the  Elders  come  in,  I  assure  you,  and  they 
give  us  every  opportunity  that  we  request.  Of  course  there  is  that  ele- 
ment that  inasmuch  as  the  Queen  herself  is  the  head  of  the  Church,  there 
is  somewhat  of  a  feeling  of  restraint  from  that  source,  but  it  is  very  little 
heeded  by  the  general  population  of  the  country. 

My  time  has  expired.  I  pray  God  to  bless  us,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Thirty-seven  years  ago  this  day  I  was  sitting  upon  the  bench  to  my 
right.  President  Snow  sent  to  me  a  note,  and  all  that  was  on  it  was : 
"I  want  to  see  you  at 'my  office  at  the  close  of  these  services."  I  had  no 
more  idea,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  what  President  Snow  wished  of  me, 
than  I  have  at  this  moment  how  long  I  shall  live. 

I  went  immediately,  at  the  close  of  the  meeting,  to  his  office,  and  as 
I  entered  the  door  most  of  the  members  of  the  Twelve  were  in  the  room, 
and  President  Snow  told  me  I  had  been  chosen  to  be  one  of  the  quorum 
of  Twelve.  I  had  had  no  previous  intimation,  so  it  was  a  complete  sur- 
prise. 

HEARINGS  IN  SMOOT  CASE 

It  was  just  a  short  time  after — two  years,  I  may  say — that  I  was 
elected  to  the  Senate  of  the  United  States.  There  is  hardly  anybody 
in  this  audience,  or,  I  was  going  to  say,  in  the  United  States,  but  what 
can  remember,  if  they  were  of  age  at  that  time,  what  took  place.  The 
charges  that  were  made  against  me  have  been  published  so  often,  and  I 
am  quite  sure  that  every  one  here  knows  what  they  were.  I  shall  not 
take  the  time  to  read  them. 

Last  night  I  picked  up  the  first  volume,  (one  out  of  five  large  vol- 
umes), containing  the  hearings  in  what  was  known  as  the  Reed  Smoot 
case.  All  the  powers  of  the  churches  of  this  nation  used  every  effort 
and  all  the  influence  that  they  could  bring  to  bear  upon  the  senators  of 
the  United  States,  to  have  them  vote  for  my  expulsion  from  the  Senate. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


105 


SENATOR  BEVERIDGE'S  INTEREST 

Albert  J.  Beveridge,  a  member  of  the  Committee  on  Privileges  and 
Elections,  met  me  often,  asking  me  every  conceivable  question  as  to  the 
beliefs,  the  aims  and  the  objects  of  the  Mormon  people,  what  oaths  we 
had  taken,  and  everything  connected  particularly  with  what  is  termed  in 
the  world  the  "Hierarchy." 

I  read  last  night,  out  of  Volume  I  of  those  hearings,  many  of  the 
questions  which  were  asked  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Apostle  Lyman, 
and  others  who  were  called  there  to  testify.  I  might  add  that  in  all 
those  five  volumes  my  name  was  mentioned  very  seldom.  It  was  "the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints." 

QUESTIONS  ASKED  OF  MINISTERS 

Later,  in  the  book,  "The  Young  Man  and  the  World,"  published  by 
Senator  Beveridge,  are  questions  that  were  asked  of  many  ministers 
of  the  United  States,  and  I  am  going  to  call  your  attention  to  the  ques- 
tions that  he  submitted  to  not  one  but  hundreds  of  ministers  of  the 
gospel. 

"The  first  question  was:  Yes  or  no,  do  you  believe  in  God  the 
Father ;  God  a  person,  God  a  definite  and  tangible  intelligence ;  not  a 
congeries  of  laws  floating  like  a  fog  through  the  universe ;  but  God,  a 
person  in  whose  image  you  were  made  ?  Don't  argue ;  don't  explain ; 
but  is  your  mind  in  a  condition  where  you  can  answer  'Yes'  or  'No'  ?" 

Then  he  continues  :  "Not  a  man  answered  'Yes.'  "  Each  man  wanted 
to  explain  that  the  Deity  might  be  a  definite  intelligence  or  might  not, 
as  the  case  may  be ;  that  the  latest  thought  was  much  confused  on  the 
matter,  and  so  forth  and  so  on. 

"The  second  question:  Yes  or  no,  do  you  believe  that  Christ  was 
the  Son  of  the  living  God,  sent  by  him  to  save  the  world  ?  I  am  not  asking 
whether  you  believe  that  he  was  inspired,  in  the  sense  that  the  great 
moral  teachers  are  inspired.  Nobody  has  any  difficulty  about  that.  But 
do  you  believe  that  Christ  was  God's  very  Son,  with  a  divinely  appointed 
and  definite  mission,  dying  on  the  cross,  and  raised  from  the  dead  ?  An- 
swer 'Yes'  or  'No.' 

"Again,  not  a  single  answer  with  an  unequivocal,  earnest  'Yes,'  but 
again  explanations  were  offered.  In  at  least  half  the  instances,  some  or 
most  of  the  answers  were  that  Christ  was  the  most  perfect  man  that  the 
world  had  seen,  and  humanity's  greatest  moral  teacher. 

"The  third  question :  'Do  you  believe  that  when  you  die  you  will 
live  again  as  a  conscious  intelligence,  knowing  who  you  are,  and  who  other 
people  are?' 

"Again,  not  one  answer  was  unconditionally  affirmative.  'Of  course, 
they  were  not  sure  as  a  matter  of  knowledge.'  'Of  course,  that  could 
not  be  known  positively.'  On  the  whole,  they  were  inclined  to  think  so, 
but  there  were  very  stubborn  objections,  and  so  forth  and  so  on." 

"The  men  to  whom  these  questions  were  put  were  particularly  high- 
grade  ministers.    One  of 'them  had  already  won  a  distinguished  reputa- 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


tion  in  New  York  and  the  New  England  states  for  his  eloquence  and  piety. 
Every  one  of  them  had  had  unusual  successes  with  fashionable  congre- 
gations. But  every  one  of  them  had  noted  an  absence  of  real  influence 
upon  the  hearts  of  their  hearers,  and  all  thought  that  this  same  condi- 
tion is  spreading  throughout  the  modern  pulpit.  Yet  not  one  of  them 
suspected  that  the  profound  cause  of  what  they  called  the  'decay  of 
faith'  was  not  in  the  world  of  men  and  women,  but  in  themselves. 

"How  could  such  priests  of  ice  warm  the  souls  of  men?  How  could 
such  apostles  of  interrogation  convert  a  world  ?" 

WITNESSES  IN  THE  SMOOT  CASE 

The  balance  of  the  chapter  is  worthy  of  reading,  but  I  haven't  the 
time.  This  young  man  at  the  time  was  a  very  popular  Senator  of  the 
United  States,  and  as  I  read  the  hearings  in  my  case,  and  his  questions 
that  were  asked  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  when  the  latter  was  a  witness 
before  the  Privileges  and  Elections  Committee,  I  felt  in  my  soul  then, 
and  you  couldn't  help  it  if  any  one  of  you  were  to  read  the  proceedings, 
that  what  Senator  Beveridge  wanted  to  know  was  why  and  how  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  held  together  so  well,  and 
why  its  members  were  willing  to  sacrifice  so  much  of  their  time  and  their 
substance,  and  were  willing  to  give  their  lives  for  the  Church,  if  necessary, 
as  shown  by  the  testimonies  given,  and  he  felt  in  his  soul  that  there  was 
something  greater  than  the  thoughts  of  man;  that  there  must  be  some 
power  in  the  Church  and  that  power  was  manifested  in  its  representatives 
who  testified  in  this  case. 

It  seemed  rather  hard  at  the  time,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  so 
many  of  the  leading  men  of  the  Church  were  dragged  to  Washington  to 
testify  but  I  get  so  much  comfort  out  of  the  fact  that  though  the  Com- 
mittee on  Privileges  and  Elections  had  an  idea  that  was  anything  but 
favorable  to  the  Mormon  people  and  the  Authorities  of  the  Church,  I 
know,  from  the  lips  of  the  men  constituting  the  Committee,  that  the  result 
of  the  hearings  and  of  the  visit  of  the  President  of  the  Church  and  mem- 
bers of  the  quorum  of  the  Twelve  and  many  other  leading  men  gave  a 
complete  answer  to  the  false  charges  that  had  been  made  against  the 
members  of  the  Church  for  so  many  years. 

A  STRONG  TESTIMONY 

God  never  requires  anything  of  this  people — never  has  and  never 
will — that  he  is  not  prepared  to  help  them  fulfil,  and  will  overrule  all 
things  and  defeat  all  enemies  that  stand  in  the  way  of  the  fulfilment  of 
his  purposes. 

A  wonderful  Church  is  ours !  The  power  back  of  it  is  divine  reve- 
lation. Church  members  are  loyal  to  its  institutions.  It  is  not  an  organiza- 
tion for  Sunday  only.  It  enters  into  every-day  life  and  never  should  be 
lost  sight  of  in  our  dealings  at  home  and  abroad  and  in  our  association 
wherever  we  may  be  or  go. 

I  have  never  been  ashamed  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.    I  have 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


107 


never  in  all  my  life  been  placed  in  a  position  where  I  felt  that  it  was 
necessary  that  I  should  violate  any  law,  ordinance  or  commandment  of 
God.   I  never  expect  to  be. 

May  God's  blessings  attend  this  people,  his  Church,  and  may  his  in- 
fluence and  power  ever  be  with  President  Grant  as  long  as  he  lives,  and 
with  the  Authorities  of  the  Church  from  the  highest  to  the  lowest,  I  pray, 
in  the  name1  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  musical  numbers  for  this  session  of  the  Conference  are  being 
furnished  by  the  Singing  Mothers,  Sister  Charlotte  O.  Sackett,  Con- 
ductor. 

We  have  a  telegram  from  President  M.  Charles  Wood  of  the  New 
Zealand  Mission  in  which  he  says  the  Saints  and  missionaries  send 
Arohanui  (great  love)  and  greetings  to  assembled  Saints  in  Zion. 

An  anthem,  "Lamb  of  God,"  was  sung  by  the  Singing  Mothers,  Mar- 
garet Summerhays,  soloist. 

Elder  Hyrum  T.  Moss,  President  of  the  Rigby  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 

THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  closing  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  at  2  o'clock  p.  m., 
Tuesday,  April  6,  1937. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  provided  the  musical  numbers 
for  this  meeting. 

An  anthem,  "How  Lovely  are  Thy  Messengers"  (Mendelssohn), 
was  sung  by  the  Singing  Mothers. 

Elder  Wilf ord  G.  Edling,  President  of  the  Hollywood  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  Singing  Mothers  sang  "O  Morn  of  Beauty." 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of,the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
I  shall  read  four  verses  from  the  53rd  chapter  of  Isaiah : 

Surely'he  hath  borne  our  griefs,  and  carried  our  sorrows;  yet  we  did 
esteem  him  stricken,  smitten  of  God,  and  afflicted. 

But  he  was  wounded  for  our  transgressions,  he  was  bruised  for  our 
iniquities :  the  chastisement  of  our  peace  was  upon  him ;  and  with  his 
stripes  we  are  healed. 

All  we  like  sheep  have  gone  astray ;  we  have  turned  every  one  to  his 
own  way ;  and  the  Lord  hath  laid  on  him  the  iniquity  of  us  all. 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


He  was  oppressed,  and  he  was  afflicted,  yet  he  opened  not  his  mouth ; 
he  is  brought  as  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter,  and  as  a  sheep  before  his  shearers 
is  dumb,  so  he  openeth  not  his  mouth. 

I  shall  depart  from  this  text  for  a  moment  to  say  that  I  am  happy 
in  the  fact  that  my  faith,  my  feelings,  and  spirit  have  been  in  complete 
accord  with  all  that  has  gone  before,  in  the  various  sessions  of  this  Con- 
ference, particularly  in  the  selection  of  Brother  Albert  E.  Bowen  to  fill 
the  vacancy  in  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 

BEARS  TESTIMONY 

I  am  very  thankful  to  the  Lord  for  the  Gospel  and  its  blessings 
which  I  have  received.  I  am  thankful  for  the  knowledge  I  have  of  this 
great  plan  of  life  and  salvation;  thankful  for  the  evidences  that  God 
has  provided  by  which  to  prove  its  truth,  and  for  the  testimony  which  I 
have  received. 

I  know  that  this  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  is  the  work  of  the 
Lord,  the  true  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ ;  that  which  was  instituted 
in  the  councils  of  heaven  before  the  world  was.  It  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation  to  all  those  who  are  obedient  unto  its  laws  and  ordinances, 
and  through  the  atonement  wrought  out  by  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ  which  makes  effective  all  the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  ad- 
ministered in  his  name  and  by  his  authority  for  the  salvation  of  the 
souls  of  men. 

I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  I  know  that  those 
who  have  succeeded  him  in  the  presidency  of  this  Church  have  been 
prophets  of  God  to  this  Church  and  to  the  world,  including  the  present 
president  of  the  Church.  I  know  that  those  who  shall  come  after  will  be 
called  of  God,  and  that  this  work  will  ultimately  triumph,  and  the  king- 
doms of  this  world  shall  become  the  kingdoms  of  his  Son,  and  Christ 
our  Lord  will  reign  upon  the  earth. 

LIVING  FOR  OUR  FAITH 

Now  I  feel  to  quote  to  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  a  little  poem  which  I 
think  is  germane  to  the  text  I  have  chosen.  I  do  not  remember  the 
name  of  the  author  but  it  reads  as  follows: 

So  he  died  for  his  faith.  That  is  fine — 

More  than  most  of  us  do. 
But  say,  can  you  add  to  that  line 

That  he  lived  for  it  too? 

In  his  death  he  bore  witness  at  last 

As  a  martyr  to  truth. 
Did  his  life  do  the  same  in  the  past 

From  the  days  of  his  youth? 

It  is  easy  to  die.    Men  have  died 

For  a  wish  or  a  whim — 
For  bravado  or  passion  or  pride, 

Was  it  harder  for  him  ? 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


109 


But  to  live;  every  day  to  live  out 

All  the  truth  that  he  dreamt, 
While  his  friends  met  his  conduct  with  doubt. 

And  the  world  with  contempt. 

Was  it  thus  that  he  plodded  ahead 

Never  turning  aside? 
Then  we'll  talk  of  the  life  that  he  led— 

Never  mind  how  he  died. 

A  LIFE  OF  INTENSE  SUFFERING 

In  the  songs  that, have  been  composed,  as  far  as  my  memory  serves 
me,  there  has  been  but  very  little  said  about  the  suffering  of  our  Lord 
during  his  life  up  to  the  time  of  his  betrayal  into  the  hands  of  his  enemies 
prior  to  his  crucifixion.  But  as  I  understand  it,  brethren  and  sisters,  his 
whole  life,  particularly  from  the  time  he  began  his  ministry,  was  one  of 
suffering,  intense  mental  suffering.  The  bearing  of  the  sins  of  the  world 
must  have  been  a  tremendous  load.  I  think  that  no  mortal  man  can 
comprehend  it  fully,  or  write  it  or  speak  it.  We  may  never  know  in 
this  life. 

Mosiah,  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  tells  us  that  the  angel  of  the  Lord 
talked  with  King  Benjamin  and  showed  him  certain  things  that  would 
take  place  centuries  later,  pertaining  to  the  coming  forth  of  our  Redeemer, 
and  the  atonement.  I  shall  read  two  or  three  verses  from  the  third 
chapter  of  Mosiah  which  tells  a  wonderful  story: 

For  behold,  the  time  cometh,  and  is  not  far  distant,  that  with  power, 
the  Lord  Omnipotent  who  reigneth,  who  was,  and  is  from  all  eternity  to 
all  eternity,  shall  come  down  from  heaven  among  the  children  of  men,  and 
shall  dwell  in  a  tabernacle  of  clay,  and  shall  go  forth  amongst  men,  working 
mighty  miracles,  such  as  healing  the  sick,  raising  the  dead,  causing  the  lame 
to  walk,  the  blind  to  receive  their  sight,  and  the  deaf  to  hear,  and  curing 
all  manner  of  diseases. 

And  he  shall  cast  out  devils,  or  the  evil  spirits  which  dwell  in  the  hearts 
of  the  children  of  men. 

And  lo,  he  shall  suffer  temptations,  and  pain  of  body,  hunger,  thirst, 
and  fatigue,  even  more  than  man  can  suffer,  except  it  be  unto  death ;  for 
behold,  blood  cometh  from  every  pore,  so  great  shall  be  his  anguish  for  the 
wickedness  and  the  abominations  of  his  people. 

Christ's  mental  anguish 

This  was  fulfilled  in  the  Savior's  life  as  recorded  in  Luke  22:44, 
which  reads  as  follows: 

And  being  in  an  agony  he  prayed  more  earnestly :  and  his  sweat  was  as 
it  were  great  drops  of  blood  falling  down  to  the  ground. 

Jesus  not  only  died  for  his  faith  and  for  us  but  he  lived  for  it 
too,  and  for  us  he  endured  mental  and  bodily  pain  and  anguish  of  soul 
beyond  the  power  of  mortal  man  to  understand  or  to  endure.  The 
angel  told  King  Benjamin  that  the  suffering  of  our  Lord  as  experienced 
in  Gethsemane  was  due  to  the  wickedness  and  abominations  of  the 
people.  This  was  because  he  loved  them  so,  his  love  being  perfect. 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Elder  James  E.  Talmage,  in  his  book,  "Jesus  The  Christ,"  tells  us 
that  it  was  his  belief  that  our  Savior  died  from  a  broken  heart.  If  the 
wickedness  of  those  for  whom  he  suffered  and  died  was  the  cause  of  his 
extreme  suffering,  we  might  ask,  how  far  are  we  responsible,  and  what 
is  the  measure  of  our  guilt? 

HE  DIED  FOR  REDEMPTION  OF  ALL 

Jesus  Christ,  our  Savior,  suffered  and  died  for  the  sins  of  the 
world,  for  those  who  lived  contemporary  with  him,  for  those  who  lived 
before,  and  for  those  who  come  after,  that  all  men  might  be  redeemed 
unconditionally  from  the  effects  of  the  Fall  of  Adam  and  Eve,  from 
death,  through  the  resurrection. 

For  since  by  man  came  death  by  man  came  also  the  resurrection  of 
the  dead,  for  as  in  Adam  all  die,  even  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be  made  alive. 
(I  Cor.  15:21,  22.) 

Also  that  all  mankind  might  be  saved  from  the  effects  of  their  in- 
dividual sins  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel. 

And  there  stood  one  among  them  that  was  like  unto  God,  and  he  said 
unto  those  who  were  with  him :  We  will  go  down,  for  there  is  space 
there,  and  we  will  take  of  these  materials,  and  we  will  make  an  earth 
whereon  these  may  dwell; 

And  we  will  prove  them  herewith,  to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things 
whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God  shall  command  them.    (Abraham  3 :24-2S.) 

TO  AVOID  THE  JUDGMENTS 

If  this  people  are  to  be  delivered  from  the  judgments  which  are  to 
be  poured  out  upon  the  earth,  by  keeping  all  the  commandments ;  and  if 
we  are  not  to  be  delivered  from  the  judgments  unless  we  do,  as  we  have 
been  told  in  a  former  session  of  this  Conference  would  be  the  case,  is  it 
right  that  those  who  do  keep  the  commandments  should  be  made  to  suffer 
because  of  the  unworthiness,  or  lack  of  keeping  the  commandments  on 
the  part  of  some  of  us  ?  We  owe  it  to  others,  to  the  Church  and  to  the 
Lord  that  we  keep  all  the  commandments,  and  that  we  avoid  sin  and  evil 
of  every  form.  May  the  Lord  give  us  strength  and  power  so  to  do,  I 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ORLANDO  C.  WILLIAMS 

President  of  the  Spanish- American  Mission 

I  am  indeed  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  with  you  on  this 
wonderful  occasion.  I  pray  for  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  be  with  me, 
that  I  may  say  something  of  profit  to  all  of  us.  I  believe  that  the  prayer 
that  was  offered  at  the  beginning  of  this  meeting  was  offered  in  my  behalf, 
as  I  had  been  praying  very  fervently  for  many  days  that  I  would  have 
strength  and  guidance  on  this  occasion. 

As  I  have  sat  through  the  sessions  oLthis  Conference  I  have  thrilled 
to  the  inspiration  that  has  come  through  our  leaders,  to  the  instructions 


ELDER  ORLANDO  C.  WILLIAMS 


111 


and  the  voice  of  warning  that  has  been  raised  here  to  the  people  of  Zion. 
It  is  my  prayer  that  we  as  a  people  will  heed  this  counsel,  that  we  will  take 
this  advice,  and  that  we  will  accept  this  voice  of  warning  to  the  people, 
that  we  may  escape  in  a  measure  the  judgments  that  are  to  come  upon 
the  nations  of  the  earth. 

It  is  a  pleasure  to  represent  this  Church  and  people  in  the  world, 
to  declare  the  Gospel  of  peace,  a  Gospel  whose  principles  will  save  the 
human  race  and  to  whose  shelter  those  who  are  world-worn  and  weary 
with  the  cares  and  burdens  of  this  life  can  come  for  peace  and  for  rest. 
We  can  say  to  them  with  assurance  that  if  they  will  accept  the  principles 
of  this  Gospel  and  adhere  to  them  they  will  find  rest  and  peace  from  the 
calamities  that  may  come  upon  this  world,  because  when  a  man  or  a 
woman  is  at  peace  with  himself  or  herself,  it  matters  little  what  goes  on 
about  them.  They  know  in  their  own  souls  and  their  own  hearts  that  they 
are  like  a  ship  in  a  safe  and  sheltered  harbor  and  that  they  will  be  able  to 
weather  the  storms  that  rage  in  the  open  seas  all  about  them.  I  pray 
that  this  will  be  the  lot  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

Running  through  my  mind  during  part  of  the  sessions  of  this  Con- 
ference has  been  the  admonition  given  to  this  people  at  the  commencement 
of  the  work  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  in  connection  with  that 
the  statement  of  the  Lord  to  ancient  Israel  wherein  he  said,  "Surely  the 
Lord  God  will  do  nothing,  but  he  revealeth  his  secret  unto  his  servants 
the  prophets."  My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  been  warned  in  this 
Conference.  That  prophecy  has  been  fulfilled  to  us,  and  we  will  be  pro- 
tected if  we  accept  that  warning. 

In  connection  with  what  has  been  said  regarding  opposition  within 
the  Church  itself,  and  some  of  its  membership  opposing  the  things  that 
are  said  and  done  by  our  leaders,  I  would  like  to  raise  the  warning  voice 
by  means  of  the  words  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  himself  on  this 
subject.  We  read  in  Church  history  from  the  sayings  of  the  Prophet 
regarding  this  thing,  when  he  charged  the  Saints  not  to  follow  the  example 
of  the  adversary  in  accusing  the  brethren,  and  said : 

If  you  do  not  accuse  each  other  God  will  not  accuse  you.  If  you  have 
no  accusers  you  will  enter  heaven,  and  if  you  follow  the  revelations  and 
instructions  which  God  gives  you  through  me,  I  will  take  you  into  heaven 
as  my  back-load.  If  you  will  not  accuse  me  I  will  not  accuse  you.  If  you 
will  throw  a  cloak  of  charity  over  my  sins,  I  will  over  yours — for  charity 
covereth  a  multitude  of  sins. 

Following  this  same  line  of  thought,  on  apostasy  and  the  judgments, 
he  gives  us  the  following : 

I  will  give  you  one  of  the  keys  of  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom  .  It  is 
an  eternal  principle  that  has  existed  with  God  from  all  eternity:  That 
man  who  rises  up  to  condemn  others,  finding  fault  with  the  Church,  saying 
that  they  are  out  of  the  way  while  he  himself  is  righteous,  then  know 
assuredly,  that  that  man  is  in  the  high  road  to  apostasy ;  and  if  he  does  not 
repent,  will  apostatize  as  God  lives.  The  principle  is  as  correct  as  the  one 
that  Jesus  put  forth  in  saying  that  he  who  seeketh  a  sign  is  an  adulterous 
man,  and  that  principle  is  eternal,  undeviating;  and  firm  as  the  pillars  of 
heaven;  for  whenever  you  see  a  man  seeking  after  a  sign  you  may  set  it 
down  that  he  is  an  adulterous  man. 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  the  Savior  set  forth  the  same  principle 
many  years  ago  when  he  was  upon  the  earth,  as  recorded  in  Matthew,  7th 
chapter,  wherein  he  said :  "Judge  not  that  ye  be  not  judged.  For  with 
what  judgment  ye  judge,  ye  shall  be  judged,"  and  he  followed  it  up  with 
the  sermon  on  the  beam  that  was  in  our  own  eye.  I  shall  read  it  to  give 
it  to  you  correctly : 

Judge  not,  that  ye  be  not  judged. 

For  with  what  judgment  ye  judge,  ye  shall  be  judged;  and  with 
what  measure  ye  mete,  it  shall  be  measured  to  you  again. 

And  why  beholdest  thou  the  mote  that  is  in  thy  brother's  eye,  but 
considerest  not  the  beam  that  is  in  thine  own  eye? 

Or  how  wilt  thou  say  to  thy  brother,  Let  me  pull  out  the  mote  of  thine 
eye;  and,  behold,  a  beam  is  in  thine  own  eye? 

Thou  hypocrite,  first  cast  out  the  beam  out  of  thine  own  eye ;  and 
then  shalt  thou  see  clearly  to  cast  out  the  mote  out  of  thy  brother's  eye. 

I  thought  of  this  in  connection  with  the  statement  of  President  Grant 
to  us,  that  the  thing  that  needs  to  concern  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  that 
they  condemn  their  own  selves  for  their  faults  and  their  failings,  and  that 
if  they  do  this,  humbling  themselves  before  the  Lord,  they  would  find  no 
time  to  accuse  the  brethren  or  to  find  fault  with  them.  I  can  testify  that 
this  is  a  true  principle.  I  have  prayed  throughout  my  life  that  the  Lord 
would  magnify  within  my  own  eyes  my  faults  and  my  failings,  that  they 
would  be  made  large  enough  to  me  that  it  would  take  my  time  and  my 
attention  to  correct  them  and  to  humble  myself  before  the  Lord,  and  I 
have  also  prayed  while  being  in  positions  of  trust  in  the  Church,  that  he 
would  clothe  my  own  faults  and  failings  with  mercy,  that  they  would 
not  be  magnified  in  the  eyes  of  my  brethren,  that  they  would  not  take 
from  me  my  opportunity  to  do  good  among  my  brethren  and  sisters. 

I  wish  to  thank  my  Father  in  heaven  for  this  Gospel,  for  the  leader- 
ship we  have  in  this  Church,  for  the  opportunity  that  I  have  to  serve, 
and  for  the  opportunity  that  is  yours.  I  am  assured  that  within  this 
Church  there  are  opportunities  for  every  member  to  serve  according  to 
their  capacity  and  their  ability,  and  that  in  time  the  Lord  will  give  unto 
us  these  opportunities.  Our  Church  is  not  of  the  world,  and  they  cannot 
conceive  of  the  ways  of  the  Lord.  I  am  reminded  of  the  verse  in 
the  song  which  says  we  should  not  judge  the  Lord  by  feeble  sense.  It 
seems  rather  absurd  to  the  world  that  we  as  a  people  so  willingly  accept 
responsibility  and  yet  seek  for  none. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  thank  the  Lord  for  this  opportunity,  and 
I  pray  for  his  blessings  upon  you,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 
In  the  days  of  ancient  Athens,  when  her  citizens  took  pride  in  the 
culture  and  art  of  her  greatness,  the  youth  who  entered  the  army  were 
required  to  take  an  oath  before  the  gods.    It  read : 

We  shall  never  bring  disgrace  upon  this  our  city,  by  any  act  of 
dishonesty  or  cowardice,  nor  ever  desert  our  suffering  comrades  in  the 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


113 


ranks.  We  will  fight  for  the  ideals  and  sacred  things  of  the  city,  both 
alone  and  with  many.  We  will  revere  and  obey  the  city's  laws,  and  do 
our  best,  to  incite  a  like  respect  and  reverence  in  those  above  us,  who  are 
prone  to.  annul  and  set  them  at  naught.  We  will  strive  unceasingly  to 
quicken  the  public  sense  of  civic  duty.  Thus  in  all  these  ways,  we  will 
transmit  this  city  not  only  not  less,  but  greater,  better,  and  more  beautiful 
than  it  was  transmitted  to  us. 

A  hundred  and  fifty  years  ago,  the  founders  of  our  Republic  an- 
nounced the  sublime  truth  that  men  are  free  and  equal.  A  century  and  a 
half  have  rolled  away  since  then,  and  the  history  of  the  world  has  no 
chapter  to  compare  with  the  accomplishments  of  America  in  that  time. 
Standing  on  Saxon  foundations,  and  inspired  by  Latin  example,  we  have 
done  what  no  race  or  nation  or  age  has  ever  accomplished.  The  American 
people  have  founded  a  Republic  on  the  unlimited  suffrage  of  the  millions 
of  souls  that  inhabit  this  land.  They  have  worked  out  the  problem  that 
a  man,  as  God  created  him,  may  be  entrusted  with  self-government. 

Our  forebears  had  a  virgin  continent  to  conquer.  The  fundamental 
problems  they  met  with  hard  work  and  a  faith  in. themselves.  They  had 
inherited  from  their  fathers,  the  ideals  of  home-life,  freedom  of  religion, 
the  free  state,  the  public  school,  and  the  lands  of  the  vast  continent 
to  till,  on  which  they  built  their  homes. 

No  nation  has  ever  had  a  freer  people,  and  no  other  nation  of  history 
has  given  its  citizens  the  powers  of  happiness  as  our  Government  has 
done.  Great  wealth  has  been  produced,  but  that  wealth  has  been  used 
to  build  industries  and  institutions  of  learning ;  it  has  been  the  power 
in  the  hands  of  men  to  build  humble  homes  and  beautiful  churches, 
and  with  it  all,  the  ideals  of  the  founders  of  the  Republic  have  been 
preserved,  and  America  has  worshipped  at  the  shrine' of  its  great  men. 

Our  Government  was  "conceived  in  liberty,  and  dedicated  to  the 
proposition  that  all  men  are  created  equal."  America  has  upheld  this 
ideal  before  the  world,  and  has  opened  its  gates  to  all  peoples  of  the 
world.  Religion  has  been  a  forceful  factor  in  our  growth,  and  today 
some  two  hundred  or  more  Christian  sects  are  attempting  to  keep  alive 
the  divine  message  of  the  Savior  of  the  world.  The  light  on  the  hills 
of  Judea  became  our  light,  and  we  have  had  faith  in  the  vision  of  a 
prophet  of  ancient  Israel : 

_  The  secret  things  belong  unto  the  Lord  our  God :  but  those  things 
which  are  revealed  belong  unto  us  and  to  our  children  for  ever,  that  we 
may  do  all  the  words  of  this  law. 

Our  Government  started  out  blessed  with  the  rich  inheritance  of  the 
ages.  Its  future  lay  before  it,  and  that  justice  should  rule  the  hearts 
of  all  its  people,  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  was  written.  The 
influence  of  our  Government  has  been  felt  time  and  time  again  among 
the  nations  of  Europe,  for  they  have  looked  to  America  for  the  solution 
of  their  problems. 

A  few  years  ago,  at  Independence  Hall  in  Philadelphia,  a  great 
event  took  place.  In  that  simple  and  dignified  room,  where  the  Declara- 
tion of  Independence  was  written  and  the  Constitution  of  our  country 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


was  adopted,  no  fewer  than  twelve  nations,  through  their  representatives, 
assembled  to  make  their  own  solemn  declaration  of  common  aims.  In 
that  sacred  room,  those  nations  made  public  confession  of  a  faith  which 
linked  them  in  friendship  with  this  nation.  What  a  solemn  occasion! 
The  nations  of  Europe  lighting  their  national  fires  at  the  altar  of  -Ameri- 
can liberty. 

The  peoples  of  the  world  have  entered  our  gates,  and  have  found 
here  a  new  life  and  happiness.  Never  had  they  been  so  well  cared  for ; 
never  had  they  the  chance  to  live  and  to  look  up  to  their  God  in  hallowed 
feeling  as  they  were  given  in  this  land.  No  nation  of  history  has  given 
homes  to  its  people  as  has  this  our  Country.  Never  has  the  wealth  of  land 
been  so  equitably  distributed;  never  in  all  time,  have  so  many  people 
owned  their  own  homes.  With  individual  opportunity,  there  has  gone 
quite  naturally  inequality.  Inequality  is  a  law  of  all  social  life,  and  to 
try  to  do  away  with  inequality  among  men  is  to  substitute  tyranny  for 
liberty. 

The  quality  of  democracy  in  America  is  that  it  seeks  to  protect  and 
preserve  that  sovereign  right  of  all  people  to  come  to  a  knowledge  of 
their  own  better  selves,  and  to  live  their  own  natural  lives.  Democracy 
teaches  us  that  it  is  not  wealth  that  makes  happiness,  but  the  wealth  of  the 
spirit,  brought  about  by  the  opportunity  to  work  on  land  and  in  factory, 
and  to  enjoy  the  blessings  of  church  and  school.  Men  may  exploit 
honest  labor,  but  such  a  thing  is  foreign  to  American  principles.  It  is 
the  wealth  of  America  in  the  hands  of  men  of  vision  that  has  built 
industries,  and  made  it  possible  for  all  people  to  have  honest  labor, 
and  to  live  honestly  before  their  God.  The  schools  of  America,  the 
churches,  the  institutions  of  higher  learning  have  been  closed  to  no  one, 
and  the  statement  of  a  noted  writer  on  economics  that  the  glory  of 
America  is  that  every  head  of  a  family  is  given  an  opportunity  to  own 
his  home,  is  true.  The  peasants  of  Europe,  who  lived  on  bread  and  wine, 
have  found  asylum  in  this  land,  and  the  comforts  of  the  humble  fire-side. 

This  is  an  age  of  change.  Innovation  is  the  idol  of  the  times.  "In 
this  age  of  novelty,  many  things  are  made  better,  and  many  things  are 
made  worse.  Old  errors  are  discarded,  and  new  errors  are  embraced." 
Governments  feel  the  same  effects  in  this  craze  for  change.  "But  the 
experience  of  all  ages,"  said  Daniel  Webster  on  one  occasion,  "will  bear 
us  out  in  saying  that  alterations  of  political  systems  are  always  attended 
with  great  danger,  for  if  the  Constitution  is  to  be  changed,  an  alteration 
in  one  part  will  work  an  alteration  in  another." 

Nor  are  great  and  striking  alterations  alone  to  be  shunned.  A  suc- 
cession of  small  changes,  a  perpetual  tampering  with  minute  parts,  steal 
away  the  breath,  though  they  leave  the  body ;  for  it  is  true  that  a  Govern- 
ment may  lose  all  its  real  character :  its  genius  and  its  temper :  without 
losing  its  appearance.  So  if  we  are  not  careful — very  careful — we  may 
find  our  government  changed  to  a  despotism,  and  yet  called  a  Republic. 
It  may  have  all  the  essential  modes  of  freedom,  and  yet  nothing  of  the 
essence,  the  vitality  of  freedom  in  it.  The  form  may  be  left,  but  the 
spirit  and  the  life  will  be  gone. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


115 


To  perpetuate  our  government,  we  must  cherish  and  love  it.  We 
must  preserve  a  correct  and  energetic  tone  of  morals.  After  all,  liberty 
consists  more  in  the  habits  of  the  people,  than  in  anything  else.  There 
are  always  men  wicked  enough  to  go  any  length  in  the  pursuit  of  power, 
if  they  can  find  people  enough  to  support  them.  Ambition  of  men  to 
become  dictators  must  be  restrained  by  the  public  morality.  When  such 
men  arise,  they  must  find  themselves  standing  alone. 

America  will  have  to  suffer  the  hate  and  envy  of  the  unappreciative. 
It  is  a  law  of  life  that  we  only  appreciate  that  which  we  are  ourselves. 
Millions  of  citizens  have  never  risen  to  the  appreciation  of  the  glory  of 
our  nation,  and  therefore  they  become  the  fighters  and  destroyers  of 
right.  Wrong  rules  the  day,  and  in  time  a  wrong  is  felt  to  be  right.  It 
all  means  that  education  is  the  only  way  to  reach  the  ideal  in  our  souls 
of  what  our  Government  really  means.  Did  the  fathers  reach  it  ?  They 
did,  but  it  was  through  the  faith  they  had  in  Almighty  God.  Such  faith 
is  the  great  help  to  true  education. 

We  are  the  trustees  of  a  sacred  trust.  We  have  been  given  by 
Providence  this  Government  with  all  its  potentiality,  with  all  its  accom- 
plishment, with  allots  promise.  The  question  should  be  to  every  Amer- 
ican: How  am  I  discharging  this  trusteeship?  What  am  I  doing  to 
preserve,  protect,  and  perpetuate  the  ideals  of  the  government  in  which 
we  have  such  implicit  faith  ?  We  have  a  solemn  obligation  before  us. 

Every  American  should  read  the  Declaration  of  Independence,  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States,  Lincoln's  Address  at  Gettysburg,  and 
see  for  himself  whether  the  American  policy; has  been  a  selfish  program. 
It  has  been  a  program  to  serve  humanity. 

Only  the  application  of  the  standards  of  moral  excellence  can  save 
our  fundamental  ideals.  As  we  look  into  the  future,  will  it  be  progress 
or  decline  ?  Let  us  pray  God  that  it  may  be  progress.  But  progress  will 
never  be  unless  we  sacredly  preserve  our  Constitution  and  hold  it  as 
the  surest  vision  for  liberty  and  freedom. 

A  few  days  ago,  the  Christian  world  celebrated  the  Easter  Day. 
Churches  were  filled  with  worshipers,  and  for  the  moment,  as  on  the 
Christmas  day,  men's  thoughts  were  turned  to  God.  The  unfortunate 
thing  is  that  the  spirit  of  the  day  is  soon  forgotten,  and  other  hopes  and 
feelings  take  grip  on  the  soul.  People  are  not  happy,  for  they  miss  the 
very  things  that  make  for  the  joy  of  living.  The  youth  have  an  aversion 
for  hard  work ;  the  mad  thirst  for  pleasure  has  replaced  our  sacred  home 
life,  and  the  hate  of  man  for  man  has  brought  the  nations  of  the  earth 
to  the  verge  of  war. 

Yet  there  are  forces  and  truths  in  the  world  that  may  yet  be  taken  to 
awaken  a  finer  conscientiousness  in  the  hearts  of  mankind,  and  a  more 
sacred  belief  in  the  righteousness  and  justice  of  the  dreams  and  ideals 
which  the  Christian  world  knelt  in  honor  of  last  Easter  Day.  We  are 
told  by  St.  Mark,  the  Evangelist,  in  words  of  exquisite  beauty  that : 

When  the  Sabbath  was  past,  Mary  Magdalene,  and  Mary  the  mother 
of  James,  and  Salome,  had  brought  sweet  spices  that  they  might  come 
and  anoint  him. 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


And  very  early  in  the  morning  the  first  day  of  the  week,  they  came 
unto  the  sepulchre  at  the  rising  of  the  sun. 

And  they  said  among  themselves,  Who  shall  roll  us  away  the  stone 
from  the  door  of  the  sepulchre? 

And  when  they  looked  they  saw  that  the  stone  was  rolled  away ;  for  it 
was  very  great. 

And  entering  into  the  sepulchre,  they  saw  a  young  man  sitting  on  the 
right  side,  clothed  in  a  long  white  garment ;  and  they  were  affrighted. 

And  he  saith  unto  them,  Be  not  affrighted;  Ye  seek  Jesus  of  Nazareth, 
which  was  crucified :  he  is  risen ;  he  is  not  here. 

For  all  the  ills  of  government ;  for  all  the  ills  of  humanity,  in  these 
words  of  St.  Mark,  there  is  fundamentally  the  panacea  and  the  hope 
for  humanity.  How  many  millions  of  the  Christian  world  have  rolled 
away  the  stone  from  the  sepulchre  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord,  and  know 
that  he  has  risen  as  the  true  and  living  Christ,  whose  teachings  can 
rejuvenate  mankind?  The  power  that  rolls  away  the  stone  from  the 
sepulchre  and  allows  the  risen  Christ  to  come  forth  is  contained  in  the 
words  of  the  Master : 

Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  might,  mind  and 
strength :  and  thy  neighbor  as  thyself. 

This  is  the  way  of  mutuality  and  co-operation  in  human  society. 
It  is  the  Master's  way  of  doing  away  with  hate  and  fear.  It  is  only 
by  the  Christian  world  allowing  the  Christ  to  come  forth  to  eternal  life, 
that  the  civilization  of  the  world  can  be  saved. 

If  in  our  thoughts  of  the  resurrection  of  the  Savior  of  the  world 
we  could  realize  more  perfectly  that  he  mastered  the  teaching  of  the 
Psalmist,  "that  the  statutes  of  God  give  wisdom  unto  the  simple,  and  the 
highest  conceivable  wisdom  to  the  humblest  minds,"  people's  hearts 
would  be  awakened  to  a  spiritual  response,  which  is  so  much  needed  at 
the  present  time.  It  was  his  life  that  liberated  people  from  the  domina- 
tion of  deceits,  and  bestowed  upon  the  race  the  increasing  consciousness 
of  the  immortality  of  spiritual  values.  Every  human  soul  must  push 
away  the  stone  from  the  sepulchre,  and  know  for  himself  that  Christ  is 
risen  unto  life  eternal,  and  in  this  thought,  the  new  day  will  be  a  dawn 
of  renewed  faith  in  mankind  and  in  the  directive  providences  of  God. 

The  Singing  Mothers  and  the  congregation  joined  in  singing  the 
hymn,  "Come,  Let  us  Anew." 

ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

One  hundred  and  seven  years  ago  today  this  marvelous  and  great 
Church  was  born.  Last  night  as  I  sat  in  this  building  and  looked  into 
the  faces  of  the  congregation  which  had  assembled  here  for  Priesthood 
meeting,  I  could  not  help  but  think  perhaps  some  of  those  six  souls  who 
joined  the  Church  on  that  sixth  day  of  April  in  1830  would  hardly  un- 
derstand and  know  what  was  transpiring  if  they  were  permitted  to  be  here 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 


117 


in  our  midst  today  and  behold  the  thousands  assembled  in  one  service 
at  one  place. 

I  am  astounded  constantly  at  the  magnitude  of  this  great  work  of 
ours.  I  cannot  help  but  think  to  what  ends  of  the  earth  it  has  not  gone 
and  to  what  corners  it  has  not  penetrated.  Realizing  all  this  there  yet 
comes  into  my  heart  and  my  soul  this  conviction :  That  perhaps  never 
again  will  I  look  upon  a  scene  as  impressive  as  the  one  I  beheld  last  night 
— eight  thousand  or  more  men  in  this  building  attending  the  Priesthood 
meeting,  and  all  dedicated  and  set  apart  for  God's  work. 

I  do  not  speak  of  this  splendid  body  of  leaders  now  before  me  who 
for  three  days  have  been  here  attending  this  Conference,  for  you  are  the 
leaders  of  the  Church,  but  I  am  thinking  of  what  this  Church  means  to 
this  great  world  of  ours.  I  am  thinking  of  the  missionaries  who  have 
reported — the  presidents  of  missions — the  advancement  of  our  work, 
and  the  gladness  with  which  certain  members  of  society  whom  they  come 
in  contact  with  accept  their  words  and  express  joy  at  hearing  of.  this  great 
Gospel  again  restored.  Oh  yes !  It  has  reached  its  arms  around  the  earth. 

And  yet,  I  would  like  to  bring  to  your  attention  one  thing  that  is 
close  to  us  at  home — one  thing  that  we  ourselves  within  the  Stakes  of 
Zion  now,  thank  God,  have  to  contend  with. 

Less  than  a  year  ago  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  and  the  Quorum 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty,  gave 
to  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy  the  task  of  organizing  missions 
within  the  stakes  of  Zion.  Brethren  and  sisters,  there  are  118  stakes  of 
Zion,  which  run  from  the  Pacific  ocean  (Honolulu,  Hawaii)  to  the 
Eastern  borders  of  this  great  country  of  ours,  and  from  Mexico  north- 
ward into  Canada. 

What  has  prompted  this?  Isaiah  tells  us  that  certain  things  would 
occur  which  God  had  decreed.  They  do  occur  because  of  what  the  Lord 
has  said  and  done.    This  is  one  of  them: 

Behold,  I  have  created  the  smith  that  bloweth  the  coals  in  the  fire, 
and  that  bringeth  forth  an  instrument  for  his  own  work. 

And,  so,  within  the  ranks  of  this  Church  I  feel  that  there  has  been 
inspiration  of  God  upon  those  who  have  brought  forth  this  great  work. 

Of  the  118  stakes  of  Zion,  for  your  benefit  let  me  say,  112  have  either 
been  organized  into  stake  missions  or  are  in  the  process  of  organization. 
Within  our  own  communities  there  have  been  brought  into  the  fold 
of  Christ  already  more  than  300  souls  who  knew  not  the  truth  before. 
In  addition  to  this,  through  this  valiant  missionary  service,  upwards  of 
600  souls  who  have  known  the  truth  of  this  Gospel,  but  who  have  more 
or  less  become  indifferent  (and  I  want  to  say  that  none  of  us,  I  fear, 
are  free  from  that)  more  than  600  of  the  indifferent  ones,  have  been 
brought  again  into  the  Church  to  renew  their  activities  through  the  en- 
deavors of  the  missionaries  who  proclaim  this  Gospel  in  the  stakes  of 
Zion.    And  the  work  is  hardly  started  yet. 

How  minutely,  how  delicately,  every  part  ordained  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  fits  into  this  great  latter-day  institution  which  he  has  established — 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


these  various  arms  and  helps  in  government,  which  we  behold  and  taste 
of  today.  Surely  this  Church  is  not  too  small  to  reach  to  every  corner 
of  the  earth,  and  of  a  surety  the  earth  is  not  too  big  to  listen  to  and 
feel  the  thrill  of  conviction  from  the  teachings  of  the  restoration  of  the 
Gospel  which  can  and  will  emanate  from  the  voices  of  our  missionary 
brethren  and  sisters  throughout  all  the  earth,  as  well  as  in  the  stakes  of 
Ziqn  at  home. 

The  zeal  and  the  pride  with  which  the  presidents  of  stakes  and  the 
bishops  of  wards  have  taken  hold  of  this  work  stirs  the  hearts  of  those 
who  are  engaged  in  it,  and  we  feel  to  thank  God  for  such  worthy  men. 

May  this  work  go  on  until  it  shall  accomplish  its  purpose  and  may 
we  as  missionaries  in  the  service  of  God  remain  humble  and  do  that 
which  God  would  have  us  do,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  hope  none  of  you  was  more  shocked  at  the  proceedings  of  this  day 
so  far  as  they  concern  myself  than  was  I.  I  have  never  regarded  myself 
as  a  person  of  particular  consequence,  and  why  I  should  have  been  asked 
to  assume  this  responsible  position,  I  do  not  know. 

In  my  lifetime  I  have  dreamed  many  dreams,  I  have  nursed  many 
ambitions,  but  this. was  never  one  of  them.  I  have  never  coveted,  never 
sought,  and  never  desired  any  preferment  in  the  Church.  I  have  been 
happy  all  the  days  of  mylife  to  work  in  it,  and  would  have  been  content 
to  remain  in  places  where  I  would  not  be  forced  to  occupy  public  position. 
But  since  the  call  has  come,  I  do  what  I  have  always  been  taught  to  do, 
namely,  respond,  and  pledge  you  that  I  will  give  it  all  my  strength. 

The  only  thing  in  the  world  that  counts  is  people.  When  the  creation 
of  the  world  was  finished,  as  the  last  and  crowning  act  God  made  man 
to  dwell  in  it,  and  he  gave  to  him  for  his  use  everything  that  was  created, 
and  told  him  that  he  might  exercise  dominion  over  the  earth.  In  all  of  his 
ministry  Jesus  was  concerned  only  with  people ;  nothing  else  mattered. 

Whatever  our  position  may  be,  in  whatever  sphere  we  labor,  we  are 
all  dedicated  to  the  business  of  ministering  to  the  welfare  of  people,  trying 
to  make  mankind  rise  to  the  stature  of  his  destiny.  That  is  the  province 
of  the  teacher,  and  every  man  in  this  Church  is  a  teacher. 

I  have  thought  during  this  day  of  the  occasion  when  Jesus  was  led 
to  the  top  of  a  high  mountain,  and  the  tempter  told  him  to  look  out 
over  the  world,  and  promised  him  that  he  would  give  him  the  world,  if 
he  would  but  bow  down  and  serve  Satan.  There  is  a  beautiful  lesson 
in  that  circumstance,  I  think,  for  all -of  us  who  would  essay  the  business 
of  teaching  others.  We  need  the  power  to  lead  men  up  to  high  emi- 
nences from  which  they  may  see  the  world,  their  own  positions  in  it,  and 
the  destinies  that  await  them  if  they  order  their  lives  aright.  If  anything 
is  needed  more  than  anything  else  now  it  is  a  voice  issuing  as  from  the 
top  of  a  high  mountain,  lifting  men's  visions  to  the  high  level  whence  it 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


119 


comes,  and  revealing  to  them  what  there  is  in  the  world  and  what  they 
may  do  in  the  exercise  of  their  prerogatives  and  rights  in  accomplishing 
the  world's  work.  And  if  we  be  what  we  have  pretended  so  long  we  are, 
then  we  have  that  kind  of  voice.  It  behooves  us  only  to  learn  to  hear  and 
understand  it,  and  govern  our  walk  and  conduct  by  its  teachings. 

May  God  bless  us  with  power  to  do  so,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

v    PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Everybody  that  we  wanted  to  speak  has  had  a  chance  to  speak,  and 
I  think  that  some  of  the  six  and  seven  minute  speeches  have  been  among 
the  best  we  have  had.  There  are  forty  minutes  left.  I  would  like  about 
fifteen  minutes  of  that  time,  it  will  take  five  or  six  minutes  for  the  singing, 
and  I  am  willing  to  divide  the  remainder  of  the  time  with  my  counselors. 

We  shall  hear  a  few  words  from  President  Clark,  and  then  from 
President  McKay. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

There  is  nothing  certain  in  this  world.  Usually  Brother  McKay  and 
myself  sit  here  for  two  and  a  half  days,  more  or  less,  on  tenter  hooks. 
Then  comes  our  turn,  and  the  Conference  is  over.  This  time  we  have 
been  pluming  ourselves  ever  since  the  first  day  that  we  were  through. 
Now  we  find  ourselves,  near  the  last  moment,  asked  to  say  something 
again  to  you,  or  at  least  to  try  to  say  something. 

CONFERENCE  ADDRESSES  INSPIRED  OF  THE  LORD 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  enjoyed  this  Conference.  I  have 
enjoyed  the  messages  that  have  come  to  us  during  this  Conference.  When 
I  was  not  a  member  of  this  group — the  presiding  group— I  used  to  think 
that  perhaps  they  all  got  together  beforehand,  and  decided  what  each 
should  say,  what  each  should  talk  about,  because  all  the  speeches  of  the 
Conference  fit  in  together  as  a  mosaic,  making  a  beautiful  picture  of  in- 
struction, counsel,  and  advice.  It  was  a  great  surprise  to  me  to  find, 
when  I  came  into  the  group,  that  there  were  no  discussions  about  Con- 
ference talks  or  a  Conference  program;  that  every  man  was  left  free  to 
follow  his  own  desires  in  what  he  should  say  .  No  plan  or  course  was 
marked  out.  Then  there  came  to  me,  as  I  am  sure  there  has  come  to 
you,  a  more  poignant  realization  that  the  Lord  was  in  charge  of  these 
Conferences.  The  old  expression  about  the  keynote  speech  of  the  Con- 
ference took  on,  to  me,  a  different  meaning  entirely.  It  was  not  a  speech 
consciously  predicting  or  forecasting  what  should  be  said  at  the  Confer- 
ence, but  it  was  the  Lord  speaking  through  his  chosen  and  anointed  one, 
giving  a  thought  and  direction  to  the  things  that  should  be  said  .  Therein 
lies  the  responsibility,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  of  those  whom  you  have 
called  to  fill  these  high  and  sacred  places  of  authority. 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


RESPONSIBILITY  OF  SAINTS  TOWARDS  THOSE  WHO  SPEAK 

It  is  our  responsibility  so  to  live  that  when  the  Lord  shall  indicate 
through  the  one  whom  he  has  chosen  to'  direct  his  affairs  upon  this  earth 
the  line  and  direction  which  should  be  taken,  that  we  shall  be  able  to 
follow  on,  we  who  hold  positions  of  lesser  trust  and  responsibility  in  the 
Church. 

I  often  say,  and  thoroughly  believe,  that  whenever  an  Elder  of  the 
Church  stands  up  to  speak  to  the  people,  the  responsibility  as  to  whether 
or  not  he  shall  say  that  which  the  Lord  would  have  him  say  is  not  wholly 
his.  No  member  of  the  Church  who  sits  before  him  but  has  the  obliga- 
tion to  exert  his  power  in  prayer  that  those  things  may  be  said  which 
shall  benefit  those  to  whom  the  Elder  speaks.  Furthermore,  that  respon- 
sibility carries  back  beyond  the  mere  coming  to  the  meeting,  or  the  mere 
attitude  in  the  meeting ;  it  carries  back  to  the  character  of  life  which  every 
Latter-day  Saint  lives,  because  it  is  his  duty  so  to  live  that  if,  when,  and 
as  he  comes  into  church  his  faith  and  his  prayers  may  be  exercised  to 
the  end  that  they  who  speak  shall  be  able  to  declare  the  will  of  the  Lord. 

I  do  not  say  nor  do  I  suggest  that  there  may  not  be  occasions  when 
the  Lord  speaks  in  spite  of  the  people.  Those  times  sometimes  do  come, 
but  I  do  feel  that  when  the  people  of  the  Lord  come  to  these  Conferences 
such  is  not  the  occasion  in  which  they  find  themselves,  and  therefore  it  is 
their  duty,  coming  to  the  Conference,  to  come  in  a  spirit  of  reverence, 
in  a  spirit  of  worship,  in  a  spirit  of  sanctification.  First,  that  they  them- 
selves may  be  fed,  and  in  order  next  that  they  who  speak  may  also  be  fed, 
to  the  end  that  all  the  people  of  the  Church,  and  all  the  people  of  the 
world  may  be  instructed,  directed,  and  built  up  by  those  things  which  may 
be  said  at  these  Conferences. 

SPIRITUAL  SIGNIFICANCE  OF  CONFERENCES 

These  are  unique  gatherings,  unique  in  the  whole  world,  unique 
because  they  are  gatherings  that  are  directed  by  the  man  whom  the  Lord 
has  chosen  to  guide  and  direct  his  work  on  this  earth.  No  other  people 
have  any  such  position  as  this ;  no  other  man  has  any  such  position  as 
that  which  I  have  described,  and  therefore  what  we  do  and  say  here  from 
Conference  to  Conference,  has  a  deep,  abiding  spiritual  significance,  and 
that  significance  cannot  reach  its  full  measure,  we  cannot  send  out  our 
messages  in  their  full  strength  unless  those  who  gather  here,  who  parti- 
cipate in  these  Conferences,  are  attuned  to  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

May  he  in  the  future  as  in  the  past  bring  together  in  these  Confer- 
ences faithful  Latter-day  Saints.  May  he  bring  together  continually 
such  great  gatherings  of  the  Priesthood  as  we  had  last  night.  As  has 
been  said  here  today  nobody  can  stand  before  that  great  audience  and 
not  be  solemnly  impressed  with  the  strength  and  the  power  which  reside 
in  them. 

So  I  repeat  we  should  come  here  prepared  to  help  to  open  up  the 
avenues  to  the  heavens,  that  from  the  heavens  may  come  the  inspiration 
which  God  expects  us  to  possess.    That  you  may  be  participants,  that 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


121 


we  may  be  participants,  that  we  shall  give  to  the  world  those  things  which 
the  world  needs,  and  that  the  Lord  may  bless  us  always,  I  ask  in  the 
name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

If  at  this  moment  each  one  present  were  asked  to  state  in  one  sentence 
or  phrase  the  most  distinguishing  feature  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  what  would  be  your  answer  ?  It  occurs  to  me  now 
.that  my  answer  would  be  this : 

Divine  authority  by  direct  revelation. 

A  DISTINGUISHING  FEATURE 

There  are  those  who  claim  authority  through  historical  descent, 
others  from  the  scriptures,  but  this  Church  stands  out  as  making  the 
distinctive  claim  that  the  authority  of  the  Priesthood  has  come  directly 
from  God  the  Father  and  the  Son,  by  revelation  to  Joseph  Smith.' 

Founded  upon  that  principle,  accepting  it  as  absolute  Gospel,  we 
have  clearly  defined  in  our  minds  some  fundamental  principles : 

First,  that  God  is  a  personal  being ;  that  he  has  a  spirit-personality. 
When  we  visualize  him  in  that  form,  we  look  at  him  through  the  clearest 
lens  through  which  the  human  mind  is  capable  of  perceiving  Deity.  As 
someone  has  said,  "He  may  be  infinitely  more,  but  he  cannot  be  less." 

The  acceptance  of  divine  authority  by  direct  revelation  also  reveals 
to  us  the  fact  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Only  Begotten  Son  in  the  flesh,  for 
the  Father  in  appearing  to  Joseph  Smith  stated  in  definite  words,  "This 
is  my  beloved  Son,  hear  Him." 

Correlated  with  that  revelation  is  another  fundamental  fact,  that  the 
Lord  is  interested  in  his  people,  that  the  whole  human  family  are  related 
as  his  children,  and  he  loves  them,  and  that  he  has  authorized  men  to 
officiate  among  the  children  of  the  world,  to  bring  them  back  into  his 
presence. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the  paramount  thought  in  my  mind  at  this 
moment  is  this :  That  the  Father  and  the  Son  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith 
and  restored  authority  to  establish  the  Kingdom  of  God  on  earth,  and 
this  is  my  testimony  to  you. 

TRIBUTE  TO  PRESIDENTS  GRANT  AND  CLARK 

I  will  also  testify  that  divine  authority  rests  in,  rich  abundance  upon 
him  whom  the  Lord  has  chosen  to  stand  at  the  head  of  this  work  at  the 
present  time.  I  am  deeply  grateful  for  the  opportunity  I  have  had  to  sit  in 
council  with  President  Grant  and  President  Clark.  I  wish  every  person 
in  this  Church  might  have  had  the  same  opportunity  to  look  into  Presi- 
dent Grant's  noble  spirit  as  I  have ;  to  know  him  as  I  have  had  the  privi- 
lege to  know  him ;  to  glimpse  his  unbounded  generosity,  his  love  for  man- 
kind, and  particularly  for  those  who  are  true  and  loyal  to  the  Church ;  to 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


realize  how  fearlessly  he  stands  for  right.  If  you  realized  these  virtues 
more  fully,  I  am  sure  that  when  you  kneel  down  to  pray  there  would 
be  a  note  of  thanksgiving  in  your  heart  and  in  your  words  which  perhaps 
there  has  not  been  heretofore. 

I  would  like  to  pay  a  tribute  to  President  Clark,  a  man  of  sterling 
integrity,  who  loves  this  work  above  everything  else  in  this  world.  He 
is  loyal  and  true,  sound  and  clear  in  judgment,  a  valiant  servant  of  the 
Lord. 

UNITY  IN  THE  LEADING  COUNCILS 

I  would  like  you  to  <  know  that  there  is  a  spirit  of  unity  and  oneness 
in  the  council  of  the  First  Presidency,  the  spirit  for  which  Christ  prayed 
just  before  he  went  into  the  garden  of  Gethsemane:  "That  they  all  may 
be  one ;  as  thou,  Father,  art  in  me,  and  I  in  thee,  that  they  also  may  be 
one  in  us."  And  as  he  prayed  on  that  occasion  so  I  pray  now  that  that 
spirit  of  oneness  may  characterize  the  leading  councils  of  the  Church; 
nay,  may  I  say,  continue  to  characterize  the  leading  councils  of  the 
Church.  For  I  believe  that  there  has  not  been  a  time  in  the  history  of  our 
Church  when  there  was  more  unity  among  these  councils  than  at  the 
present  time.  I  pray  that  that  spirit  of  oneness  may  spread  throughout 
all  the  Church,  that  it  may  be  characteristic  of  Presidencies  of  Stakes  and 
High  Councils,  Bishoprics,  Ward  Teachers,  and  particularly  of  the 
quorums  and  auxiliaries  of  the  Church,  that  they  may  all  be  one,  to  quote 
the  Savior,  as  he  and  his  Father  are  one.  God  help  us  to  achieve  this 
principle,  that  our  faith  in  God  and  in  his  work  may  be  unwavering,  and 
our  loyalty  never  doubted,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  musical  numbers  of  this  session  have  been  rendered  by  the 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers,  under  the  direction  of  Sister  Lottie 
Sackett.  We  have  appreciated  them  very,  very  much. 

The  same  spirit  that  Brother  Bowen  has  was  my  spirit  as  a  young 
man,  as  a  child,  as  a  boy.  My  mother  used  to  tell  me,  as  you  have  heard 
me  say  many  times,  that  if  I  would  behave  myself  I  would  become  an 
Apostle.  I  told  her  that  I  did  not  want  to  be  an  Apostle,  a  president  of 
a  stake  or  a  bishop  of  a  ward,  I  wanted  to  be  a  business  man,  but  when 
the  call  came  for  me  to  go  to  Tooele,  I  made  an  heroic  sacrifice.  I  will 
not  enter  into  the  details. 

GRATITUDE  FOR  PRIESTHOOD 

When  the  local  patriarch  in  Tooele  blessed  my  little  baby  who  was 
dying  and  promised  her  she  should  live  and  be  a  mother  and  become 
a  leader  among  her  sisters,  I  thanked  the  Lord  more  fervently  than  ever 
before  in  my  life  for  the  Priesthood  of  God  and  the  power  that  that 
patriarch  had.  Subsequently  he  said,  "I  have  a  blessing  for  you,  and  I 
want  you  to  come  to  my  office  and  get  it."  After  I  had  received  that 
blessing  I  saw  and  believed  that  my  destiny  was  to  devote  my  time 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


123 


practically  to  the  Church,  because  of  the  promises  made  to  me.  And  I 
have  done  it  conscientiously,  and  there  has  never  been  any  fear  in  my 
mind  of  the  final  triumph  of  this  work. 

A  REVELATION  IN  BRIEF 

I  remember  that  one  of  my  nearest  and  dearest  friends  was  the  late 
William  C.  Staines.  Staines  told  me  he  once  received  a  short  revelation 
of  just  a  few  lines  from  the  Lord.  He  said  he  was  worrying  over  the 
rough  people,  many  of  them,  in  pioneer  days,  and  the  hardships,  and  the 
profanity,  a  little  too  much  drinking,  etc.  among  the  people,  and  he  was 
broken-hearted  regarding  these  conditions  and  wondered  what  would 
happen  when  Brigham  Young  and  others  of  the  leading  brethren  passed 
away.  The  Lord  gave  him  a  revelation  to  the  effect  that  he  need  not 
worry,  that  this  is  His  work  and  the  men  for  leaders  of  the  Church 
would  come  when  they  were  needed,  and  they  have  come. 

TRIBUTE  TO  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY  AND  SUCCESSOR 

I  want  to  say  that  we  have  had  no  truer,  more  faithful  member  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  than  was  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley.  I 
believe  firmly  that 1  whenever  the  Lord  inspires  a  man  to  make  a  promise 
under  the  inspiration  of  His  Spirit  the  Lord  is  not  going  to  allow  that 
promise  to  fail.  Brother  Hinckley  was  given  a  blessing  in  which  he  was 
promised  as  a  young  man  that  some  day  he  would  be  an  Apostle.  He  did 
not-  believe  it,  but  the  Lord  saw  fit  that  that  promise  should  be  fulfilled 
before  he  passed  away  to  undoubtedly  a  greater  mission. 

After  the  brief  remarks  that  have  been  made  here  today  by  Brother 
Bowen,  I  believe  that  every  true  Latter-day  Saint  believes  that  the  Lord 
has  had  something  to  do  with  the  selection  of  Brother  Hinckley's  suc- 
cessor. 

APPRECIATION  FOR  MUSIC  FURNISHED 

I  want  to  thank  the  choir  and  the  Singing  Mothers  and  their  leader, 
the  organist,  and  the  soloists,  who  have  done  so  much  to  add  to  our 
comfort  during  this  Conference,  particularly  of  course  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  that  sang  to  us  Sunday  and  that  furnished  the  broadcast.  I  appre- 
ciate our  organist  and  Brother  Spencer  Cornwall,  and  all  who  have 
furnished  music  for  us.  I  thank  them  on  behalf  of  myself  and  my  coun- 
selors and  the  Apostles. 

UNITY  IN  COUNCIL  OF  TWELVE 

I  can  say  that  after  fifty-five  years  and  a  fraction  in  this  Church 
as  an  Apostle  I  can  repeat  and  emphasize  what  President  McKay  has 
said,  that  from  my  knowledge  I  do  not  believe  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
was  ever  more  united  than  they  are  today,  and  I  rejoice  in  it.  We  have 
no  fear  in  asking  people  to  speak  because  we  know  that  they  are  seeking 
for  God  to  help  them  in  delivering  their  message. 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


INSPIRED  BEYOND  NATURAL  ABILITY 

I  am  grateful  beyond  expression  that  what  I  had  planned  in  my 
mind  to  say  in  this  Conference  I  have  not  said — not  a  word.  I  am  very 
grateful  indeed  that  many  years  ago  when  I  sat  on  my  seat  in  this'taber- 
nacle  for  quite  a  while  one  afternoon  listening  to  Milton  Bennion,  and 
planning  what  I  was  going  to  say  in  my  address  that  I  was  going  to 
deliver  when  he  got  through  speaking,  and  when  I  got  up  to  speak  and 
opened  my  Ready  Reference  book  that  I  had  in  my  pocket,  and  turned  it 
down  at  the  pages  that  I  had  marked,  I  forgot  all  about  the  speech  that 
I  had  expected  to  deliver.  I  prayed  with  all  my  heart  and  soul  that  the 
Lord  would  inspire  me  beyond  my  natural  ability,  that  I  would  have  his 
inspiration  so  strong  that  my  brother,  whom  I  saw  in  a  meeting  in  this 
building  for  the  first  time  in  my  life,  might  be  converted  to  the  truth. 

I  told  that  congregation  that  never  before  in  all  my  life  had  I  so 
strongly  desired  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  while  standing  before  a  con- 
gregation in  this  building,  that  never  before  had  I  desired  so  much  their 
faith  and  prayers  to  help  me  in  my  remarks.  I  did  not  think  again  of  the 
Ready  Reference  book,  nor  did  I  think  of  the  sermon  that  I  had  planned 
to  deliver,  but  I  preached  on  the  divine  mission  of  the  Savior,  the  Son 
of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  principally  upon  the  divine  mis- 
sion of  Joseph  Smith,  the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  of  again 
establishing  upon  the  earth  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation. 

Brother  George  Q.  Cannon  used  to  sit  in  a  chair  here  on  the  stand 
facing  north.  I  was  sitting  on  the  stand  right  below  him.  When  I  sat 
down  I  heard  Brother  Cannon  say,  "Thank  God  for  the  power  of  that 
testimony."  I  leaned  forward  and  wept  for  joy,  because  I  knew  God 
had  heard  and  answered  my  prayer.  I  had  left  three  quarters  of  an  hour 
of  the  time — forty-eight  minutes  in  fact — for  Brother  George  Q.  Cannon, 
knowing  that  his  brother  Angus,  who  was  in  charge  of  the  meeting,  al- 
ways believed  in  a  two-hour  meeting. 

Brother  Angus  M.  Cannon,  at  the  close  of  my  remarks,  walked  over 
to  where  President  Cannon  sat  and  said :  "George,  there  is  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  left  for  you.    Please  occupy  it." 

Brother  George  Q.  Cannon  said :  "Angus,  I  came  in  late,  I  was  in 
pain  at  two  o'clock,  and  I  do  not  feel  like  talking ;  I  don't  want  to  talk. 
We  have  had  a  very  wonderful  meeting,  and  I  am  in  favor  of  your  dis- 
missing the  meeting." 

Angus  said:  "Well,  I  am  not  going  to  waste  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.   If  you  won't  talk  I  will  call  on  somebody  else." 

Brother  George  Q.  Cannon  said :  "All  right,  take  your  seat,  I  will 
talk."  He  got  up  and  said :  "There  are  occasions  in  the  lives  of  all  of  us 
when  the  Lord  sees  fit  to  inspire  a  man  and  to  allow  him  to  reach  such 
heights  of  inspiration  that  it  is  a  very  grave  mistake  for  somebody  else  to 
try  to  follow  him.  Therefore,  inasmuch  as  we  have  had  an  occasion  of 
this  kind  in  the  remarks  of  Brother  Grant,  I  ask  Brother  Angus  M. 
Cannon  to  call  on  the  choir  to  sing  and  on  someone  to  dismiss  this  meet- 
ing." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


125 


CONVERSION  OF  BROTHER 

The  very  next  day  my  brother  came  into  my  office  and  said :  "Heber, 
I  heard  you  preach  yesterday." 

"Well,  well,  well,  I  am  glad  to  know  it — the  first  time  you  ever 
heard  your  brother  preach?" 

He  said,  "No,  Heber,  I  have  heard  you  lots  of  times." 

"Well  I  never  saw  you  in  a  meeting  before  in  my  life." 

"No,"  he  said,  "I  never  took  a  front  seat,  I  generally  went  to  a  meet- 
ing where  I '  could  get  in  the  gallery,  or  somewhere  else  where  you  could 
not  see  me,  and  I  could  see  you.  But  you  never  spoke  before  as  you  did 
yesterday  .  You  spoke  beyond  your  natural  ability,"  (using  my  own 
words  in  my  prayer),  "you  spoke  by  inspiration." 

I  said,  "What  did  I  speak  about?" 

"The  idea  of  your  asking  that.  You  know  that  the  main  theme  upon 
which  you  spoke  was  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  in  the  hands 
of  God  in  the  establishing  of  this  Church." 

"You  are  praying  for  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel,  I  understand?" 

"Yes,  and  I  am  getting  discouraged.   I  feel  like  I  shall  quit  praying." 

I  said:  "Quit.  You  say  you  know  there  is  a  God  and  you  know 
there  is  a  devil,  and  that  the  devil  tried  to  get  you  to  commit  suicide,  and 
instead  of  doing  it  (you  went  out  with  your  pistol  in  the  high  pines  of 
Oregon  to  do  it)  you  got  down  on  your  knees  and  prayed  and  got  up 
weeping  for  joy ;  and  that  you  know  two  things,  that  there  is  a  devil 
and  that  there  is  a  God.  If  you  quit  praying  you  have  surrendered  to  the 
devil.  What  in  the  world  is  the  matter  with  you  ?  Do  you  want  the  Lord 
to  come  down  here  and  talk  to  you :  You  tell  me  that  you  know  that  I 
spoke  beyond  my  natural  ability,  that  I  spoke  by  inspiration,  that  my 
theme  was  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  What  more 
of  a  testimony  do  you  want  ?" 

He  said,  "I  never  thought  of  that  before." 

Well,  before  the  week  was  out  he  applied  for  baptism. 

We  know  as  we  know  that  we  live  that  we  have  the  truth.  We  have 
absolute  confidence  as  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  in  the  men  whom  we 
recommend  for  the  apostleship.  President  Smith,  in  my  judgment,  al- 
though he  called  twelve  men  to  the  Presidency  and  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve  during  his  life,  made  no  mistake  in  any  one  of  the  men  that  he 
called.  It  may  sound  egotistical,  but  I  am  sure  I  have  made  no  mistakes 
in  the  appointments  to  these  quorums  that  I  have  made. 

GRATITUDE  FOR  GOSPEL 

I  thank  the  Lord  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  for  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation,  that  we  as  a  people  have,  and 
that  we  as  individuals  have.  I  thank  God  for  the  young  men  who  go  out 
upon  missions  without  college  education  and  meet  the  scholastic  accom- 
plishments of  the  world,  and  that  under  the  inspiration  of  the  living  God 
they  have  been  able  to  confound  the  wise  of  the  world  and  have  touched 
the  hearts  of  honest  people,  bringing  them  into  the  Church. 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


BLESSING  AND  TESTIMONY 

I  pray  God  with  all  the  power  of  my  being  to  bless  every  soul  who 
has  embraced  the  Gospel,  and  to  inspire  every  one  to  live  the  Gospel. 
"Man  is  that  he  may  have  joy,"  and  there  is  no  joy  in  the  world  that  equals 
the  joy  of  knowing  in  your  heart  of  hearts  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  we  as  individ- 
uals are  living  the  Gospel  that  will  bring  eternal  exaltation  to  us  and 
our  loved  ones. 

That  God  may  help  each  and  every  one  of  us  to  do  this,  is  my 
humble  prayer.  I  pray  God's  blessings  upon  this  people.  I  thank  our 
Heavenly  Father  for  the  marvelous  attendance  of  the  Priesthood  at  our 
meeting  last  night.  I  thank  him  for  all  the  blessings  that  he  has  given  me. 
I  humbly  pray  God  that  he  will  multiply  the  rain  and  increase  the 
fertility  of  the  soil,  and  increase  the  love  of  labor  in  the  hearts  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  a  determination  with  the  help  of  God  to  live  the 
truth,  so  that  our  example  may  so  shine  before  the  world  that  those  who 
know  not  the  truth  may  seek  for  it ;  and  I  know  that  if  they  will  seek  for 
it  God  will  give  it  to  them.  I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  statement  made  by 
Moroni  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  as  follows :  "And  when  ye  shall  receive 
these  things,  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye  would  ask  God,  the  Eternal 
Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things  are  not  true;  and,  if  ye 
shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  having  faith  in  Christ,  he 
will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ye  may  know  the  truth  of  all  things." 
The  Book  of  Mormon  is  the  great,  the  grand,  the  most  wonderful  mis- 
sionary that  we  have. 

APPRECIATION  FOR  POLICE  SERVICE 

I  want  to  express  the  gratitude  of  myself  and  associates  in  the 
Presidency  and  of  the  Apostles  for  the  splendid  way  that  the  police  de- 
partment of  this  city,  under  the  direction,  I  suppose,  of  their  chief,  have 
looked  after  the  traffic  and  prevented  accidents.  We  owe  them  a  debt  of 
gratitude. 

A  FAVORITE  POEM 

Even  though  my  time  is  up,  I  am  going  to  read  you  a  poem  that  I 

intended  to  use  in  my  opening  remarks : 

There  are  three  lessons  I  would  write, 
Three  words  as  with  a  burning  pen, 
In  tracings  of  eternal  light 
Upon  the  hearts  of  men. 

Have  faith,  tffough  clouds  environ  round 
And  gladness  hides  her  face  in  scorn. 
Put  off  the  darkness  from  thy  brow; 
No  night  but  hath  its  morn. 

Have  hope,  where'er  thy  bark  is  driven, 
The  calm  distorts  the  tempest's  mirth. 
Know  this,  God  rules  the  hosts  of  heaven, 
The  inhabitants  of  earth. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


127 


Have  love — not  love  alone  for  one, 
But  man  as  man  thy  brother  call, 
And  scatter  as  a  circling  sun 
Thy  charities  on  all. 

There  is  hardly  a  day  of  my  life  that  I  do  not  repeat  the  words  of 
that  poem.  God  bless  you  all,  Amen. 

"Holy  Redeemer,"  a  sacred  anthem,  was  sung  by  the  Singing  Moth- 
ers, William  Hardiman,  violinist. 

Elder  John  W.  Jones,  President  of  the  Long  Beach  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  music  of  the  Conference  was  under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall,  Conductor  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir.  The  singing  at  the  fifth 
and  sixth  sessions  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  was  conducted 
by  Sister  Charlotte  O.  Sackett. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played  by 
Frank  W.  Asper,  assisted  by  Wade  N.  Stephens. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Authorities  Present    1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of    85 

Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church   86 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J   87 


Spain's  sad  condition,  88 — Vitality  in  Church  of  Christ,  88 — Broth- 
erhood in  the  Church,  89 — Obligation  upon  rich  and  poor,  90 — 
Loyalty  will  bring  success,  90 — Advice  to  the  poor,  91 — Blessings 
commonly  enjoyed,  92 — Episode  from  Father's  journal,  92 — 
Trouble  in  nations  of  world,  92 — America's  destiny,  93 — The 
Kingdom  of  God  to  be  established,  93. 


Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0   19 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E  118 

Broadcast,  Choir  and  Organ   8 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   52 

Righteousness  binds  Satan,  52 — Works  of  the  flesh,  53 — Works 
of  the  spirit,  53 — Freedom  in  righteousness,  53 — America — Land 
of  Promise,  conditionally,  54 — Destruction  in  unchastity,  54. 

Cannon,  Bishop  Sylvester  Q   80 

Correct  principles — self-government,  80 — Love  of  money  the  root 
of  evil,  80 — Present  economic  conditions,  81 — Comparative  busi- 
ness indicators,  81 — Improvement  in  employment,  82 — Develop- 
ment of  natural  resources,  82 — Conservation  of  water  supply,  82 — 
Class  and  freak  legislation,  83 — Avoid  class  feeling  and  strife,  83 
— Wise  counsel  of  President  Grant,  83 — Follow  advice  of  leaders, 
84. 

Changes  in  Church  Officers    6 

Church  Officers,  Presentation  of   86 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.,    22 


Pays  tribute  to  singers  and  musicians,  22 — Savior  had  two  great 
missions  on  earth,  22 — Responsibility  of  Authorities,  22 — By  way 
of  warning  and  admonition,  23 — Millions  spent  on  war  materials, 
23 — Purchases  react  upon  commodity  prices,  23 — Exterminating 
war  and/or  chaotic  depression,  24 — Europeans  plan  to  have  U.  S. 
pay  for  war,  24 — Terrible  depression  indicated  by  signs,  25 — 
Strength  needed  to  meet  emergency,  25 — Precautionary  measures 
suggested,  26 — Man  must  work,  26. 


Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.,  119 

Conference  addresses  inspired  of  the  Lord,  119 — Responsibility 
of  Saints  towards  those  who  speak,  120 — Spiritual  significance  of 
Conferences,  120. 

Clawson,  President  Rudger   75 

Four  important  books,  75 — Gift  of  Holy  Ghost  necessary,  75 — 
A  sure  guide,  75 — The  purpose  of  life,  75 — Three  different  estates, 
76 — The  importance  of  the  body,  76— The  spiritual  and  the  tem- 
poral, 77 — The  true  Church,  77. 

Colton,  Elder  Don  B     56 

Daynes,  Elder  Joseph  J   72 


INDEX 


129 


Financial  Statement  Presented   2 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   21 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting   2 

General  Authorities  Present   1 

General  Authorities  Presented  for  vote  of  Conference   85 

General  Officers  of  the  Church  Present   1 

General  Officers  of  the  Church  Presented  for  vote  of  Conference  85 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 

Presiding  at  Conference,  2. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   9 


Grateful  for  support  of  members,  9 — Acts  with  full  approval  of 
others,  10 — Church  sets  example  to  world,  10 — Hymns  found  aid 
in  going  to  sleep,  11 — Quotes  from  memorable  revelation,  11 — 
Virtue  should  garnish  thoughts,  12; — Use  of  liquor  violation  of 
Gospel,  12 — Drunkenness  since  Prohibition  repeal,  13 — Criticism 
shows  failure  to  observe  law,  13 — Will  of  God  to  be  emphasized,  13 
— High  salary  paid  executive,  14 — Avoid  having  wine  in  homes,  14 
— Liquor,  tobacco  for  other  purposes,  IS — Word  of  Wisdom,  pray- 
ers and  health,  IS — Benefits  accrue  from  keeping  commandments, 
IS — Church  leaders  blessed,  16 — Experiences  in  Europe,  17— 
Heeds  admonition  to  limit  length  of  remarks,  18 — Blessings  and 
admonitions,  18. 


Grant,  President  Heber  J   44 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   85 

Presents  General  Authorities  and  Officers  of  the  Church  for  vote 
of  the  Conference,  85. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  107 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  119 

Divides  remaining  time  with  Counselors,  119. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  122 

Gratitude  for  Priesthood,  122 — A  revelation  in  brief,  123 — Tribute 
to  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley,  and  successor,  123 — Appreciation  for  music 
furnished,  123 — Unity  in  Council  of  Twelve,  123 — Inspired  beyond 
natural  ability,  124— Conversion  of  brother,  125 — Gratitude  for 
Gospel,  125 — Blessing  and  testimony,  126 — Appreciation  for  police 
service,  126 — A  favorite  poem,  126. 

Hardy,  Elder  Rufus  K  116 

Hinckley,  Elder  Bryant  S   44 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden    55 

McKay,  President  David  O.  .     2 

Reads  financial  and  statistical  report  of  the  Church,  2. 

McKay,  President  David  O   27 


Moral  sense  basis  of  all  social  law,  27 — Disrespect  for  law  among 
worst  of  evils,  28 — Violations  bode  ill  for  society,  29 — Man  must 
be  made  worthy  of  liberty,  29 — Responsibility  to  teach  children 
reverence,  obedience  to  law,  30 — Reverence  on  decline  among 


130  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

many,  30 — What  lies  behind  decadence  of  reverence,  31 — Reverent 
people  law-abiding,  31. 


McKay,  President  David  0  121 

A  distinguishing  feature,  121 — Tribute  to  Presidents  Grant  and 
Clark,  121 — Unity  in  the  leading  councils,  122. 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F   37 

Time  cannot  change  fundamentals,  37 — The  first  vision  a  reality, 
37 — Resurrected  beings  appear,  38 — Authority  restored,  38 — The 
Book  of  Mormon  a  Physical  Evidence,  38— Faith  a  gift,  39 — 
Gospel  teaches  universal  salvation,  39 — Activity  in  the  spirit  world, 
40 — The  last  dispensation,  41 — Inspiration  continues  with  leaders 
of  the  Church,  41 — A  warning  of  dangers  ahead,  41 — Divine 
guidance  necessary,  42. 

Pratt,  Elder  Harold  W   99 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  for  vote  of  Conference  85 

Quinney,  Elder  Joseph,  Jr.,   42 

Rich,  Elder  Abel  S   94 

Richards,  Elder  George  F  107 

Bears  testimony,  108 — Living  for  our  faith,  108 — A  life  of  intense 
suffering,  109 — Christ's  mental  anguish,  109 — He  died  for  redemp- 
tion of  all,  110 — To  avoid  the  judgments,  110. 

Richards,  Elder  L-e Grand   62 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L    46 


The  Priesthood  defined,  46 — Activity  required,  46 — Priesthood 
compared  with  a  stream,  47 — A  perfect  plan  of  service,  47 — The 
Priesthood  in  the  home,  48 — Humility  and  integrity,  49 — Priest- 
hood from  divine  source,  49 — Attributes  of  Priesthood,  SO — 
Admonition  to  be  true,  51 — -A  strong  testimony,  51. 


Richards,  Elder  Wilford  W   78 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   62 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting   44 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   31 


Helped  by  wise  counsels,  32 — Scripture  teachings  appropriate  to- 
day, 32 — The  purpose  of  Conferences,  32 — The  path  of  safety,  33 
— Kindness  toward  those  who  err,  34 — Unkind  criticism  unbe- 
coming in  Latter-day  Saints,  34 — Influence  of  home,  35 — Safety 
in  living  the  Gospel,  36 — Set  homes  in  order,  36. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   58 

Peace  taken  from  the  earth,  58 — A  true  Church,  59 — Zion  to 
rejoice,  60 — Judgments  coming  upon  the  world,  60 — Fault-finding, 
60- — Predictions  being  fulfilled,  61 —  Warning  of  President  Wood- 
ruff, 61. 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed   104 

Hearings  in  Smoot  Case,  104 — Senator  Beveridge's  interest,  105 — 
Questions  asked  of  ministers,  105 — Witnesses  in  the  Smoot  Case, 
106— A  strong  testimony,  106. 


INDEX  131 

Statistical  Statement  Presented   5 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    8 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H     97 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting  107 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting   85 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   68 

Wiberg,  Elder  Reuben  M  101 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A   65 


Progress  brings  responsibility,  65 — Permanence  encompasses 
earth's  changes,  65 — Desirability  of  permanence  and  progress,  66 — 
"To  your  First  Principles,  O  Israel!"  66 — Observance  of  Ten 
Commandments  a  present-day  obligation,  67 — Security  in  obedi- 
ence, 68. 

Williams,  Elder  Orlando  C 
Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar 


110 

112 


A  Few  of  the  Books  that  will 
Help  You  to  Understand 
"Mormon  ism" 

The  Book  of  Mormon 

The  latest  edition  comes  to  you  in  four  different  bindings.  Of  course  the  text 
remains  the  same  but  there  are  added  features  which  make  the  edition  more  complete. 

Missionary  Edition   #  .50 

Cloth  binding,  embossed    1.50 

Full  Morocco      3.00 

The  Gospel  and  Man's  Relationship  to 

Deify 

BY  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

"It  is  to  place  within  their  reach  a  brief  and  simple  exposition  of  the  first  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  that  this  work  has  been  prepared,  and  is  now  presented  to  the 
youth  of  Zion;  and  it  is  the  earnest  hope  of  the  author  that  by  a  patient  perusal  of 
these  pages  those  who  now  believe  the  Gospel  will  find  their  faith  strengthened  and 
confirmed;  and  those  who  do  not  believe  it  will  be  convinced  of  its  truth." 

Price    *l-25 

The  Story  and  Philosophy  of 
"Mormonism" 

BY  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

Comprising  "The  Story"  as  told  in  addresses  at  Cornell  and  Michigan  Universities 
and  elsewhere,  followed  by  an  address  delivered  at  the  Panama-Pacific  Exposition, 
entitled  "The  Philosophical  Basis  of  'Mormonism.'  " 

Cloth    *  -75 

In  Search  of  Truth 

BY  ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE  OF  THE  QUORUM  OF  THE  TWELVE 

Bound  in  Art  Cloth   $1.00 

This  new  book  answers  the  questions,  "What  is  Science"  and  "How  does  the 
Church  view  Science."    A  practical  book  for  our  THINKING,  young  people. 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


"Mormonism 

and 

Freemasonry 

By 

Anthony  W.  Ivins 


"This  brief  treatise  is  addressed  primarily  to  the  members 
of  the  Masonic  fraternity.  The  author  requests  Masons  and 
others  who  may  read  it  to  patiently  consider  its  contents,  and 
in  a  spirit  of  fairness  and  reason  determine  whether  the 
ground  taken  by  the  writer  is  truth  or  error." 


Price  $1.50  Postpaid 

+  2%  Sales  Tax  in  Utah 

Distributed  by  the 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


