g3^S€aS2S8S33&_~ — —   M 

I  SEVENTY-FOURTH  ANNUAL  | 

$  S3 

-  CONFERENCE 

i 


El 


OF  THE 


Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  » 


»  -    | 


Latter-day  Saints 


a 


Si 


«,  Held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  April  3rd,  4th  and  6th,  & 
ej]  1904,  with  a  full  Report  of  the  Discourses.  i? 


i 


ALSO  AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  GENERAL  CONFERENCE  OF  THE  «j 
DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 

IP 


8  8 

si 


Em  Thb  Deseret  News  91 

1  ~  1 

i  1 


DESERET  NEWS 

BOOK  STORE 


LEADING  BOOK  CON- 
CERN OF  THE  STATE 


Standard  and  Miscellaneous  Books,  Histories, 
Biographies,  Late  Popular  Fiction,  Etc.,  Etc. 
All  of  the  Church  and  Home  Publications. 
Send  for  Free    Catalogue  and  Price  List. 


DESERET  NEWS  BUILDING 

6  MAIN  STREET 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


MS 


Christ 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


OF 


THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 


FIRST  DAY. 


The  Seventy-fourth  Annual  Confer- 
ence of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle, Salt  Lake  City,  at  10  a.m.  on 
Sunday,  April  3rd,  1904,  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith  presiding. 

THE  PROCEEDING-S. 

There  were  present  of  the  general 
authorities:  Of  the  First  Presidency, 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  John  R.  Winder  and 
Anthon  H.  Lund.  Of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles;  Francis  M. 
Lyman,  Abraham  O.  Wooaruff,  Rudger 
Clawson,  Hyrum  M.  Smith  and 
George  A.  Smith.  Presiding  Patriarch, 
John  Smith.  First  Seven  Presidents 
of  Seventies:  Seymour  B.  Young, 
Brigham  H.  Roberts,  George  Reynolds, 
J.  Golden  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells, 
and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin.  Of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric:  William  B.  Preston, 
Robert  T.  Burton  and  Orrin  P.  Miller. 
There  were  likewise  many  presidents  of 
stakes,  their  counselors,  presidents  of 
missions  and  other  leading  men  of  the 
Priesthood. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  begins: 

"Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  la- 
bor fear, 
But  with  joy  wend  your  way." 
The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Joseph  E.  Taylor. 

Singing  by  the  choir,  the  anthem: 
"From  afar,  gracious  Lord,  Thou  hast 
gathered  Thy  flock." 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

OPENING  ADDEESS. 

Guiding  care  and  mercy  of  the  Almighty — His  re- 
quiremen  s  or  the  Latter-day  Saints — Con- 
dition of  the  unbelieving — Nature  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood — The  government  of  God  means 
freedom — The  Saints  look  forward  to  and  long 
for  its  tstablishmeiit. 

Feeling  very  greatly  dependent  upon 
the  mercies  of  the  Lord  for  the  guid- 
ing influence  of  His  Holy  Spirit,  I  am 
delighted  this  morning  to  welcome  this 
vast  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints 
to  the  opening  meeting  of  this  seventy- 
fourth  annual  conference  of  the  Church. 

We  begin  our  conference  on  this  beau- 
tiful morning,  I  firmly  believe,  under 
the  divine  approval,  blessing  and  fa- 
vor of  Almighty  God,  who  has  guided 
the  destiny  of  His  people  from  the  or- 
ganization of  the  Church  until  the  pres- 
ent, and  whose  overruling  power  has 
preserved  us  from  the  hands  of  our  ene- 
mies and  guided  us  in  our  footsteps 
and  in  our  journeyings  into  the  tops 
of  these  mountains.  Here,  by  His 
blessing,  we  have  had  a  measure  of 
peace  for  lo  these  many  years.  We 
have  been  permitted  to  grow  and  in- 
crease in  numbers,  and,  as  I  believe,  in 
faith,  intelligence  and  in  a  better  and 
broader  understanding  of  the  principles 
of  life  and  salvation  which  have  been 
restored  to  the  earth  in  the  latter  day, 
through  the  administration  of  divine 
messengers  to  man  and  through  the  di- 
vine calling,  appointment  and  inspira- 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


tion  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and 
his  co-laborers  in  this  work,  whom  the 
Lord  prepared  in  the  beginning  and 
fitted,  by  the  power  and  influence  of 
His  Spirit  upon  them,  for  the  ministry 
which  they  were  called  to  fill  and  per- 
form in  /the  Church. 

It  has  not  been  by  the  wisdom  of  man 
that  this  people  have  been  directed 
in  their  course  until  the  present;  it 
has  been  by  the  wisdom  of  Him  who 
is  above  man  and  whose  knowledge  is 
greater  than  that  of  man,  and 
whose  power  is  above  the  power 
of  man;  for  it  is  unto  God,  our 
Father,  we  are  indebted  for  the 
mercies  we  have  enjoyed  and  for 
the  present  prosperous  condition  of  the 
people  of  God  throughout  this  inter- 
mountain  region  and  throughout  the 
world.  The  hand  of  the  Lord  may  not 
be  visible  to  all.  There  may  be  many 
who  can  not  discern  the  workings  of 
God's  will  in  the  progress  and  develop- 
ment of  this  great  latter-day  work, 
but  there  are  those  who  see  in  every 
hour  and  in  every  moment  of  the  ex- 
istence of  the  Church,  from  its  be- 
ginning until  now,  the  overruling,  al- 
mighty hand  of  Him  who  sent  His  Only 
Begotten  Son  to  the  world  to  become  a 
sacrifice  for  the  sin  of  the  world,  that 
as  He  was  lifted  up  so  He,  by  reason 
of  His  righteousness  and  power  and 
the  sacrifice  which  He  has  made,  might 
lift  up  unto  God  all  the  children  of 
men  who  would  hearken  to  His  voice, 
receive  His  message  and  obey  His  law. 

My  heart  swells  with  gratitude  to 
God.  my  Heavenly  Father,  for  His  lov- 
ing kindness  and  mercy  to  His  people 
and  to  the  people  of  our  nation  and, 
indeed,  to  the  people  of  the  whole 
world.  I  can  see  the  hand-dealing 
of  the  Lord  not  only  with  us,  a  little 
handful  of  people  in  the  midst  of  these 
mountains,  but  also  with  the  great  na- 
tion of  which  we  are  a  part— I  was  go- 
ing to  say  an  insignificant  part,  but  I 
will  not  qualify  this  remark  in  that 
way.  I  think  also  that  I  can  discern 
the  hand  of  the  Lord  in  His  dealings 
with  other  nations  of  the  earth,  and  I 
fully  believe  that  He,  and  not  the  wis- 
dom of  men,  is  shaping  the  ends  or 


destinies  of  the  nations  of  the  earth  for 
the  accomplishment  of  His  purposes  in 
the  latter  days.  Not  only  are  we  the 
people  of  God1  but  all  the  inhabitants 
of  the  world  are  His  children,  and  all 
men  in  every  land  and  in  every  clime 
who  will  humble  themselves  before  the 
Lord  and  acknowledge  Him  are  enti- 
tled to  a  measure  of  His  blessing,  favor, 
mercy  and  protection.  The  Lord 
will  look  after  them  and  will  overrule 
circumstances  for  their  good,  as  He  has 
overruled,  in  a  greater  measure,  cir- 
cumstances for  the  good  of  His  people 
who  have  made  a  covenant  with  Him 
by  sacrifice,  who  have  obeyed  the  voice 
of  the  Spirit  unto  them,  and  have  yield- 
ed submission  to  the  laws  of  the  Gospel 
and  become  members  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  by 
faith,  repentance  of  sin,  and  the  ordin- 
ances of  the  Gospel  that  have  been  in- 
stituted by  which  mankind  may  be  in- 
itiated into  the  family  of  God  and  be- 
come His  sons  and  His  daughters,  heirs 
of  God  and  joint  heirs  with  Jesus 
Christ. 

I  desire  to  express  to  you, my  brethren 
and  sisters  who  are  here  today,  my  firm 
and  fixed  conviction  that  God,  the  Eter- 
nal Father,  is  constantly  mindful  of 
you.  He  is  mindful  of  His  people 
throughout  all  this  land,  and  he  will 
reward  you  according  to  your  faithful- 
ness in  observing  the  laws  of  right- 
eousness and  of  truth.  No  man  need 
fear  in  his  heart  when  he  is  conscious 
of  having  lived  up  to  the  principles  of 
truth  and  righteousness  as  God  has  re- 
quired it  at  his  hands,  according  to  his 
best  knowledge  and  understanding.  I 
do  not  suppose  that  you  think  or  that 
anyone  will  think  that  we  esteem  our- 
selves as  perfect,  or  as  different  and 
apart  from  other  people  of  the  world. 
We  are,  indeed,  I  am  sorry  to  say,  al- 
together too  much  like  the  rest  of  the 
world  in  many  respects.  We  are  people 
with  like  passions,  like  weaknesses,  like 
imperfections — no,  doubt,  results  of  hu- 
man nature — as  the  rest  of  mankind. 
But  the  difference  lies  here:  We  have 
made  a  covenant  in  our  hearts  with 
God.  the  Eternal  Father,  that  we  will 
forsake  sin;  that  we  will  eschew  the 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


3 


very  appearance  of  evil,  as  far  as  we 
possibly  can;  that  we  will  overcome 
to  the  utmost  our  weakness  and  prone- 
ik-ss  to  evil  and  wrong-doing',  that  we 
will  seek  light  from  all  sources  of  light 
and  intelligence;  that  we  will  seek 
knowledge  that  comes  from  above,  and 
hold  our  ears  open  to  listen  to  the 
words  of  truth,  to  the  voice  oi  under- 
standing, and  to  the  voice  of  inspiration 
that  comes  from  the  Lord,  or  that  may 
come  from  man,  inspiring  men  to  do 
better,  to  improve,  to  advance  in  the 
scale  of  righteousness  and  of  intelli- 
gence in  the  world;  and  that  we  will 
keep  ourselves,  as  far  as  it  is  possible 
for  us  to  do  so,  clean  and  pure  and 
unspotted  from  the  sins  of  the  world. 
That  is  the  difference.  We  have  cov- 
enanted with  God  that  we  will  do  this, 
and  we  expect  that  God  will  require  us 
to  keep  this  covenant  that  we  have 
made  with  Him,  and  that  we  will  strive 
with  all  our  might  to  live  consistent 
lives  before  the  Lord  and  keep  His 
laws. 

It  is  hard,  very  hard  indeed,  to  make 
the  blind  see  or  the  deaf  hear;  and  it  is 
a  truth  laid  down  in  the  doctrines  of 
the  Gospel  as  taught  to  the  ancient 
Nephites  upon  this  continent,  that 
there  are  none  so  blind  as  those  who  will 
not  see,  .and  there  are  none  so  deaf 
as  those  who  will  not  hear.  There  are 
those  who  will  not  see  and  who  will  not 
hear,  and  it  is  vain  to  attempt  to  open 
their  eyes,  for  they  will  to  keep  them 
shut.  It  is  vain  that  we  attempt  to 
open  their  ears  to  hear,  for  they  have 
closed  their  ears  against  •  the 
everlasting  truth  and  they  will  not 
hear  it.  What  are  we  to  do  under  such 
circumstances  as  these?  Are  we  to 
grieve  about  it?  Shall  we  slacken  our 
effort  in  the  least  because  these  condi- 
tions exist  in  the  world?  Shall  we  turn 
back  from  the  plow  to  which  we  have 
put  our  hand  because  there  are  those 
in  the  world  that  will  not  see  the 
truth  and  will  not  hear  the  voice  of  the 
Spirit  of  God  calling  them  to  repent- 
ance and  to  obey  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord?  Verily  no!  He  would 
be  a  weak  and  vacilating  and  an  un- 
profitable servant    who     would  turn 


away  from  righteousness  because  there 
are  those  who  will  not  repent  of  their 
sins  and  turn  unto  righteousness. 

Our  duty  is  to  keep  steadily  on— on 
and  upward  in  the  direction  that  the 
Lord  Almighty  has  marked  out  for 
us  to  pursue.  Keep  the  faith;  honor 
the  name  of  God  in  your  hearts;  revere 
and  love  the  name  of  Him  whose  blood 
was  shed  for  the  remission  of  sins  for 
the  world;  honor  and  hold  in  the  high- 
est esteem  him  whom  God  raised  up  in 
his  childhood  to  lay  the  foundations  of 
this  great  latter-day  work;  honor  that 
power  and  that  authority  which  we  call 
the  Holy  Priesthood,  which  is  after  the 
order  of  the  Son  of  God,  and  which 
has  been  conferred  upon  man  by  God 
Himself.  Honor  that  Priesthood. 
What  is  that  Priesthood?  It  is  nothing 
more  and  nothing  less  than  divine  au- 
thority committed  unto  man  from  God. 
That  is  the  principle  that  we  should 
honor.  We  hold  the  keys  of  that  au- 
thority and  Priesthood  ourselves;  it 
has  been  conferred  upon  the  great 
masses  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  It 
has,  indeed,  I  may  say,  been  bestowed 
upon  many  that  were  not  worthy  to 
receive  it  and  who  have  not  magnified 
it  and  who  have  brought  disgrace  upon 
themselves  and  upon  the  Priesthood 
which  was  conferred  upon  them.  The 
Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God  cannot 
be  exercised  in  any  degree  of  unright- 
eousness; neither  will  its  power,  its  vir- 
tue and  authority  abide  with  him  who 
is  corrupt,  who  is  treacherous  in  his 
soul  toward  God  and  toward  his  fellow- 
men.  It  will  not  abide  in  force  and 
power  with  him  who  does  not  honor  it 
in  his  life  by  complying  with  the  re- 
quirements of  heaven. 

Some  people  think  it  is  a  dreadful 
sin  for  a  people  like  the  Latter-day 
Saints  to  claim  that  they  believe  with 
all  their  souls  that  the  world 
would  be  better  if  only  the  laws 
of  God  could  be  enforced  in 
the  world.  Some  people  think 
that  if  God's  authority,  if 
God's  law,  if  God's  righteousness  were 
to  be  enforced  among  the  children  of 
men  that  it  would  deprive  men  of  their 
liberties,  it  would  bring  them  into  bond- 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


age,  and  that  it  would  debase  and  de- 
grade them.  We  do  not  look  at  this  in 
this  way.  We  believe  that  God's  will 
is  to  exalt  men;  that  the  liberty  that 
comes  through  obedience  to  the  Gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  greatest 
measure  of  liberty  that  can  come  to 
man.  There  is  no  liberty  that  men  en- 
joy or  pretend  to  enjoy  in  the  world 
that  is  not  founded  in  the  will  and  in 
the  law  of  God  and  that  does  not  have 
truth  for  its  underlying  principle  and 
foundation.  It  is  error  that  makes 
bondsmen.  It  is  untruth  that  degrades 
mankind.  It  is  error  and  the  lack  of 
knowledge  of  God's  laws  and  God's  will 
that  leaves  men  in  the  world  on  a  par 
with  the  brute 'creation;  for  they  have 
no  higher  instincts,  no  higher  principle, 
no  higher  incentive,  no  higher  aspira- 
tion than  the  brute  world  if  they  have 
not  some  inspiration  that  comes  from  a 
higher  source  than  man  himself. 

I  believe  in  God's  law.  I  believe  that 
it  is  His  right  to  rule  in  the  world.  I 
believe  that  no  man  has  or  should  have 
any  valid  objection  in  his  mind  to  the 
government  of  God,  and  the  rule  of 
Jesus  Christ,  in  the  earth.  Let  us  sup- 
pose, for  a  moment,  that  Christ  were 
here  and  that  He  was  bearing  rule  in 
the  world.  Who  would  come  under  His 
condemnation?  Who  would  be  subject 
to  His  chastening  word?  Who  would 
be  in  disharmony  or  unfellowship  with 
God?  Would  the  righteous  man?  Would 
the  virtuous  man?  the  pure  and  virtu- 
ous woman?  the  pure  and  the  honest  in 
heart?  the  upright?  the  straightfor- 
ward? those  who  do  the  will  of  heaven? 
Would  they  be  in  rebellion  to  Christ's 
rule  if  He  were  to  come  here  to  rule? 
No.  They  would  welcome  the  rule  and 
reign  of  Jesus  Christ  in  the  earth.  They 
would  welcome  His  law  and  acknowl- 
edge His  sovereignty,  they  would  has- 
ten to  rally  to  His  standard  and  to  up- 
hold the  purpose  and  the  perfection  of 
His  laws  and  of  His  righteousness. 
Who  would  then  be  recreant  to  the  rule 
of  Christ?  The  whoremonger,  the 
adulterer,  the  liar,  the  sorcerer,  he  who 
bears  false  witness  against  his  neigh- 
bor, he  who  seeks  to  take  advantage  of 
his       brother       and       who  would 


overcome  and  destroy  him  for 
his  own  worldly  gain  or  profit: 
the  murderer,  the  despiser  of  that 
which  is  good,  the  unbeliever  in  the 
eternities  that  lie  before  us,  the  atheist, 
perhaps,  although  I  think  that  he 
would  not  be  so  far  from  Christ  as 
some  that  profess  to  be  teachers  of  His 
doctrines  and  advocates  of  His  laws. 
It  would  be  the  rebellious,  the  wicked, 
those  who  would  oppress  their  neighbors 
and  enslave  them  if  they  could.  Such 
as  these  would  be  the  people  who  would 
not  welcome  the  reign  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Are  there  any  who  profess  to  be  Latter- 
day  Saints  in  this  class,  and  would  fear 
to  have  Christ  reign  and  rule? 

Now,  we  do  not  claim  that  God  rules 
in  the  sense  that  the  world  charge  us 
with  believing.  We  do  not  claim  nor 
profess  that  Jesus  reigns  in  the  earth 
as  the  world  charge  us  with  believing. 
We  say  that  we  would  welcome  His 
reign.  We  say  and  we  feel  in  our 
hearts  that  we  would  love  to  have  Him 
come  and  reign  and  rule  among  men. 
We  say  and  we  believe  in  our  hearts 
that  so  far  as  we  overcome  our  weak- 
nesses, our  imperfections  and  our  re- 
bellious nature  which  is  against  the  will 
of  the  Father,  so  far  as  we  are  able  to 
subdue  the  carnal  mind  and  the  wick- 
edness and  the  weaknesses  of  human 
nature  with  which  we  are  beset,  so  far 
as  we  are  able  to  rise  above  the  grovel- 
ing condition  of  fallen  man  and  attain 
a  higher  plane,  of  virtue,  honor,  purity 
and  righteousness,  that  so  far,  and  no 
farther,  does  Christ,  the  Son  of  God, 
reign  in  our  hearts.  And  we  would  to 
God  that  we  were  in  such  a  condition 
that  He  would  reign  supreme  over  our 
souls,  and  over  all  that  we  possess. 
Who  shall  gainsay  this?  Who  shall  say 
that  it  is  wicked  to  obey  Christ?  that  it 
is  wrong  to  follow  in  His  footsteps  and 
obey  his  laws?  We  will  not  say  that, 
and  we  will  not,  if  we  can  help  it,  per- 
mit ourselves  to  be  crowded  into  the 
corner,  by  which  we  will  have  to  con- 
fess that  we  would  rather  that  hell 
should  reign  on  earth  than  that  heaven 
should  reign.  We  would  rather  that 
God  would  reign,  that  heaven  would 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


5 


smile,  that  righteousness  should  pre- 
vail, that  truth  should  cover  the  earth 
as  the  waters  cover  the  mighty  deep. 
"We  would  rather  that  every  man  and 
every  woman  on  earth  were  a  child  of 
God  and  an  heir  indeed  and  a  joint  heir 
with  Jesus  Christ.   "We  prefer  that.  "We 
are  working  for  that;  we  pray  for  it; 
we  preach  the  Gospel  for  this  purpose, 
and  we  hope,  by  the  blessing  of  the  Al- 
mighty upon  our  efforts  and  labors  in 
the  world,  that  before  this  work  shall 
have  completed  its  mission  and  the  ob- 
ject   of    its    existence   in  the  world, 
every  knee  shall  bow  and  every  tongue 
confess  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  to 
the  honor  and  glory  of  God  and  to  the 
redemption  of  the  world.   "We  are  going 
to  keep  right  on  in  that  line  as  long  as 
God  will  give  us  our  liberty  and  per- 
mit us  to  live  in  the  flesh;  and  when 
we  shall  have  finished  our  mission  here 
and  go  behind  the  veil,  with  the  Priest- 
hood that  has  been  conferred  upon  us 
here  and  its  keys,  authority  and  power, 
we  will  continue  to  administer  for  the 
redemption   of  those   that   have  died 
without  a  knowledge  of  the  truth,  in 
the  world  of  spirits,  until  every  son 
and   daughter  of  God  that  has  lived 
upon   the   earth   shall  have   had  the 
privilege  of  hearing  the  sound  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  of  embrac- 
ing it,  that  their  prison  doors  may  be 
opened,  and  that  liberty  may  be  pro- 
claimed unto  them,  the  liberty  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  wherewith  we 
are  made  free. 

God  bless  you.  May  He  pour  out  His 
Spirit  upon  His  people  and  help  them 
to  be  wise  and  prudent  in  their  words 
and  in  their  actions.  "We  say  to  you 
keep  the  laws  of  God,  and  you  should 
honor  and  keep  the  constitutional  laws 
of  men.    That  is  what  we  say. 

"We  say  to  you,  pay  your  debts  and 
get  out  of  debt.  Pay  your  obligations 
and  free  yourselves  from  the  bondage 
of  obligation,  if  you  can,  and  as  soon 
as  you  can.  "We  say  to  you,  protect 
your  own  faith  by  Godly  lives.  "We  say 
to  you  do  unto  others  as  you  would 
have  them  do  unto  you — in  righteous- 
ness. "We  say  to  you,  keep  the  faith 
delivered  to  the  Saints  in  the  latter- 


day.  "We  say  to  you,  honor  God  in  your 
lives;  honor  and  love  Christ,  the  Son 
of  God,  in  your  hearts;  uphold  in  honor 
and  maintain  respect  for  the  name  of 
Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  of  God  who 
was  instrumental  in  laying  the  founda- 
tion of  this  great  latter-day  work.  Do 
not  turn  away  at  every  wind  of  doc- 
trine or  be  swayed  by  the  cunning 
and  craftiness  of  men,  whereby  they 
lie  in  wait  to  deceive.  Know  the 
truth  for  yourselves.  Walk  in  the 
light  as  Christ  is  in  the  light,  and  you 
will  have  fellowship  with  Him,  and 
then  the  blood  of  Jesus  Christ  will 
cleanse  you  from  all  sin.  God  bless 
you  to  this  end  is  my  humble  prayer, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  then  sang  the  anthem  "The 
Mountain  of  the  Lord's  House." 

PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

Preparation  for  the  advent  of  Christ-  His  death 
and  resurrection— Salvation  for  the  dead. 

I  greet  this  congregation  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  and  I  ask  that  I  may  have 
a  share  of  your  faith  and  prayers  while 
I  shall  stand  before  you.  I  have  en- 
joyed the  remarks  of  our  President  this 
morning,  and  I  believe  his  words  have 
found  an  echo  in  every  heart.  He  has 
portrayed  unto  us  our  mission  and  our 
duties  here  upon  the  earth — that  which 
we  are  striving  for,  namely,  to  serve 
the  Lord,  to  carry  out  His  purposes, 
and  to  be  instruments  in  His  hands  to 
bring  about  the  reign  of  peace,  the  reign 
of  Christ,  here  upon  the  earth.  This 
work  in  which  we  are  engaged,  we  have 
been  told,  and  we  have  an  assurance 
thereof,  is  the  work  which  is  to  prepare 
men  for  the  second  coming  of  Christ. 
We  believe  that  the  time  is  near  at 
hand  when  the  prophecies  concerning 
His  coming  will  be  fulfilled.  "We  know 
that  before  His  coming  there  must  be 
a  people  prepared  to  receive  Him.  "We 
have  tried  to  prepare  ourselves,  and 
those  amongst  whom  we  labor,  for  this 
great  event,  and  we  cannot  do  this  in 
any  other  way  than  the  one  which  our 
President  has  pointed  out  to  us- 

I  am  reminded  that  this  is  Easter. 
We  celebrate  today  the  glorious  event, 
of  the  resurrection  of  our  Savior.  About 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


1S70  years  ago  this  great  event,  which 
confirms  our  hope  of  eternal  life,  took 
place.     Our  Redeemer  was  laid   in  a 
nev  grave,  and  remained  there  until  the 
third  day  after  His  crucifixion.  He  arose 
and  took  upon  Himself  His  body — the 
same  body  which  had  suffered  upon  the 
cross,  and  which  had  been  buried;  and 
in  that  body  he  was  seen  again  amongst 
His  followers.    What  a  great  event  is 
the  resurrection  of  Christ!     He  con- 
quered death;   He  demonstrated  unto 
us  that  death  should  not 'forever  reign; 
that  though  He,  Himself  and  all  the 
seed   of   Adam    should   be   subject  to 
death,  yet  death  should  not  continue  to 
have  power  over  them.    He  overcame 
death.    He  broke  its  chains,  He  took 
up  His  body  again,  and  fulfilled  the 
great  mission  for  which  He  came  here 
upon  the  earth.    What  a  glorious  hope 
is  given  unto  us  through  this  event!  I 
suppose  the  date  of  this  anniversary  is 
nearly  correct.    It  was  about  this  time 
*of  the  year  when  the  resurrection  took 
place.    With  Christmas  it  is  different. 
We  have  nothing  to  go  by  to  show  us 
that      the      birth      of      Christ  took 
place  in  December,  but  we  have  sug- 
gestions made  that  it  was  early  in  the 
year,  and  that  it  must  have  been  at  a 
time  when  it  was  warm  enough  for  tha 
herders  to  be  out  in  the  fields  taking 
care  of  their  flocks.  This  event,  however, 
which    is    celebrated  today  throughout 
the  Christian  world  we  know,  accord- 
ing to  the  gospels,  took  place  at  the 
time  of  the  Jewish  passover.     In  order 
to  have  it  recur  annually  on  a  Sunday, 
the  Christian  chronologers  have  made 
it  fall  on  the  Sunday  after  the  first  full 
moon  that  comes  next  after  the  21st  of 
(March.    It  gives  us  pleasure,  therefore, 
to  know  that  we  are  near  the  right 
time  when  celebrating  this  event. 

Many  doubt  the  statements  of  the 
evangelists  and  say  that  the  resurrec- 
tion <?^uld  not  take  place.  Unbelievers? 
have  used  aiguments  against  belief  in 
the  resurrection  of  Christ.  With  us,  how- 
ever, there  is  no  doubt  concerning  it. 

We  believe  the  Bible  to  be  the  word  of 
God  as  far  as  it  is  translated  correctly, 
and  in  that  book  we  find  the  testimonies 
of  several  writers  to  the  fact  that  Jesus 


was  resurrected,  and  that  He  was  seen 
after  He  had  risen,  by  the  Apostles,  by 
acquaintances,  and  at  one  time  by  at* 
many  as  five  hundred  at  once.  This 
was  the  testimony  borne  by  His  disci- 
ples when  they  went  out  into  the  world 
after  the  ascension  of  Christ,  and  they 
were  willing  to  suffer  all  things  for 
that  testimony.  They  did  not  bear  this 
testimony  with  any  view  of  obtaining 
worldly  honors  in  compensation  for 
their  labor;  on  the  contrary,  they  knew- 
that  the  bearing  of  this  testimony  con- 
cerning Christ  would  lead  to  their  fol- 
lowing Him  even  unto  death;  but  this 
did  not  deter  them,  they  did  not  hold 
back  or  feel  afraid  of  what  the  world 
would  do,  but  persisted  in  bearing  tes- 
timony that  Christ  was  risen  and  that 
they  had  seen  Him. 

Not  only  did  Cbrist  rise  from  tn*. 
dead  at  that  time,  but  others  were  seen 
who  had  risen  from  their  graves- 
righteous  men  and  women  who  died  be-, 
fore  Christ,  and  who  had  the  privilege 
of  rising  with  him.  I  do  not  believt* 
that  the  resurrection  then  was  a  gen- 
eral one;  I  believe  it  extended  to  those 
only  who,  while  upon  earth,  had  proved 
themselves  willing  to  do  all  for  the 
kingdom  of  God,  and  to  whom  neither 
property,  honor,  nor  life  itself  had  been 
too  dear  to  keep  them  from  carrying 
out  the  purposes  of  God. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  believe  in  a  lit- 
eral resurrection.  We  do  not  enter- 
tain the  idea,  as  many  in  the  world  do. 
that  the  resurrection  will  be  a  spiritual 
one  only.  The  promise  of  the  Lord  is 
that  we  shall  receive  our  bodies 
again.  We  look  upon  death  mere- 
ly as  a  temporary  separation  of  the 
spirit  and  the  body.  The  body  of 
Jesus  was  laid  in  the  grave,  and  a 
guard  placed  before  it,  but  His  spirit 
did  not  slumber  there.  It  was  only 
the  body  that  was  dead.  The  spirit 
was  still  alive,  and  in  the  spirit  He 
visited  the  good  and  righteous  in  Para- 
dise, and  also  visited  the  prison  where 
the  spirits  of  men  had  been  awaiting 
His  coming  for  many  generations,  they 
having  been  placed  there  for  rejecting 
the  Gospel  when  it  was  preached  unto 
them.    We  are  told  in  the  Scripture 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


that  He  visited  the  spirits  in  prison  and 
preached  unto  them.  No  doubt  they 
received  with  gladness  His  message, 
and  were  liberated  from  the  prison. 
Thus  he  fulfilled  the  prophecies  which 
had  declared  that  His  mission  was  to 
open  prison  doors.  After  this,  his 
spirit  returned  unto  His  body.  The 
body  was  quickened  and  immortalized. 
It  underwent  a  process  of  which  we 
have  no  conception.  But  it  was  the 
same  body.  He  visited  His  Apostles 
after  His  resurrection.  He  appeared 
in  their  midst  without  their  seeing-  how 
He  came.  The  grosser  elements  of  the 
body  were  no  doubt  eliminated.  If 
there  had  been  anything  corruptible 
in  the  body  that  was  laid  in  the  tomb,  it 
was  not  incorporated  in  the  resurrected 
body.  Before  His  crucifixion  His  body 
was  subject  to  death,  and  He  was  kill- 
ed by  His  enemies;  but  when  He  took 
His  body  again  all  that  belonged  to 
mortality  had  been  eliminated.  His 
body  was  an  immortal  one.  Yet  when 
He  showed  Himself  to  His  disciples  He 
proved  unto  them  that  He  was  the 
same  Jesus;  there  were  the  wounds  in 
hands  and  feet,  and  even  in  His  side — 
a  convincing  proof  unto  His  disciples 
of  His  identity,  and  that  His  body  had 
been  resurrected. 

We  look  forward  to  a  time  when 
this  great  blessing  shall  come  to  us 
also.  We  do  not  look  upon  death  as  the 
end  of  our  individual  existence.  On  the 
contrary,  knowing  Him  to  be  our  pro- 
totype, we  have  the  assurance  that 
death  is  only  temporary,  and  that  there 
will  come  a  time  after  death  when  we 
shall  again  receive  these  same  bodies 
which  we  possess  here  upon  the  earth, 
and  that  the  union  of  spirit  and  body 
shall  never  be  dissolved.  The  bodies 
we  shall  receive  will  be  immortal,  and 
the  spirit  and  body  reunited  will  con- 
stitute a  living  soul. 

While  upon  this  subject  I  will  read  a 
few  passages  from  the  eighty-eighth 
section  of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants: 

"And  there  shall  be  silence  in  heaven 
for  the  space  of  half  an  hour,  and  im- 
mediately after  shall  the  curtain  of 
heaven  be  unfolded,  as  a  scroll  is  un- 
folded after  it  is  rolled  up,  and  the  face 
of  the  Lord  shall  be  unveiled; 


'And  the  Saints  that  are  upon  the 
earth,  who  are  alive,  shall  be  quickened, 
and  be  caught  up  to  meet  him. 

"And  they  who  have  slept  in  their 
graves  shall  come  forth;  for  their 
graves  shall  be  opened,  and  they  also 
shall  be  caught  up  to  meet  him  in  the 
midst  of  the  pillar  of  heaven: 

"They  are  Christ's  the  first  fruits: 
they  who  shall  descend  with  Him  first, 
and  they  who  are  on  the  earth  and  in 
their  graves,  who  are  first  caught  up  to 
meet  Him:  and  all  this  by  the  voice  of 
the  sounding  of  the  trump  of  the  angel 
of  God. 

'And  after  this  another  angel  shall 
sound,  which  is  the  second  trump;  and 
then  cometh  the  redemption  of  those 
who  are  Christ's  at  His  coming;  who 
have  received  their  part  in  that  prison 
which  is  prepared  for  them,  that  they 
might  receive  the  Gospel,  and  be  judged 
according  to  men  in  the  flesh. 

"And  again,  another  trump  shall 
sound,  which  is  the  third  trump;  and 
then  cometh  the  spirits  of  men  who  are 
to  be  judged,  and  are  found  under  con- 
demnation: 

"And  these  are  the  rest  of  the  dead, 
and  they  live  not  again  until  the  thous- 
and years  are  ended,  neither  again,  un- 
til the  end  of  the  earth. 

"And  another  trump  shall  sound, 
which  is  the  fourth  trump,  saying, 
There  are  found  among  those  who  are 
to  remain  until  that  great  and  last  day, 
even  the  end,  who  shall  remain  filthy 
still." 

Here  we  have,  through  a  revelation 
given  in  1832,  a  prophecy  concerning  the 
manner  of  the  resurrection.  It  was  giv- 
en by  revelation  unto  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith,  and  it  gives  us  a  good  idea 
concerning  that  great  event  which  will 
take  place  hereafter.  When  Christ  shall 
come  the  Saints  that  are  upon  the  earth 
will  be  quickened,  and  caught  up  unto 
Him.  They  will  not  have  to  be  laid  in 
the  grave  and  undergo  death  in  the  or- 
dinary way,  but  all  the  change  pertain- 
ing unto  death  will  come  unto  them, 
even  if  it  be  as  the  apostle  said,  "in  the 
twinkling  of  an  eye."  The  Lord's  pow- 
er will  be  made  manifest — for  He  holds 
the  keys  of  the  resurrection,  He  knows 
all  concerning  our  physical  organiza- 
tion, and  He  is  able  to  accomplish  this 
great  wonder  of  the  resurrection.  So 
when  the  time  comes  the  faithful  of 
the  Saints  will  be  quickened  and 
caught  up  to  meet  Him  and  the  many 
thousands  that  are  coming  with  Him. 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


"They  who  have  slept  in  their  graves 
shall  come  forth;  for  their  graves  shall 
be  opened,  and  they  also  shall  be 
caught  up  to  meet  him  in  the  midst  of 
the  pillar  of  heaven."  Now.these  are  the 
first  fruits  of  that  resurrection,  and 
tbey  shall  descend  with  Christ.  They 
also  who  are  on  the  earth  shall  be 
caught  up  tovmeet  Him.  And  all  this  by 
the  voice  of  the  trump  of  the  angel  of 
God. 

This,  brethren  and  sisters,  is  some- 
thing worth  working  for.  We  de- 
sire to  live  so  that  when  this 
event  shall  come,  whether  we 
be  on  the  earth  or  in  the  grave,  that 
this  sound  may  be  heard  by  us — that 
we  may  come  forth  and  join  that  hap- 
py throng.  The  revelation  goes  on  to 
describe  those  who  shall  hear  the 
trump,  but  who  are  of  a  different  class 
to  that  to  which  I  have  referred.  There 
will  be  some  that  did  not  hear  the  gos- 
pel upon  the  earth,  but  who  received 
their  portion  in  the  prison.  We  have 
generally  thought  that  the  doctrine  of 
salvation  for  the  dead  was  not  taught 
until  1843,  when  the  Prophet  Joseph 
received  revelations  concerning  work 
for  the  dead;  but  from  the  very  begin- 
ning the  Lord  revealed  unto  him  that 
there  wasva  possibility  of  salvation  be- 
ing obtained  by  those  who  had  passed 
away  without  a  knowledge  of  the  Gos- 
pel. And  so  we  are  told  here  of  the 
next  class  that  shall  be  resurrected: 

"And  after  this  another  angel  shall 
sound,  which  is  the  second  trump;  and 
then  cometh  the  redemption  of  those 
who  are  Christ's  at  his  coming;  who 
have  received  their  part  in  that  prison 
which  is  prepared  for  them,  that  they 
might  receive  the  Gospel,  and  be 
judged  according  to  men  in  the  flesh. 

"And  again,  another  trump  shall 
sound,  which  is  the  third  trump;  and 
then  cometh  the  spirits  of  men  who 
are  to  be  judged,  and  are  found  under 
condemnation. 

"And  these  are  the  rest  of  the  dead, 
and  they  live  not  again  until  the  thou- 
sand years  are  ended,  neither  again, 
until  the  end  of  the  earth. 

And  another  trump  shall  sound, 
which  is  the  fourth  trump,  saying, 
There  are  found  among  those  who  are 
to  remain  until  that  great  and  last  day, 
even  the  end,  who  Shall  remain  filthy 
still." 


Perhaps  the  sons  of  perdition  are  the 
last  class.  All  will  be  resurrected. 
Jesus  died  for  us  all.  He  became  the 
Redeemer,  He  bought  us  for  a  price, 
and  His  death  brought  the  privilege  of 
resurrection  unto  every  soul,  whether 
he  be  a  sinner  or  not.  All  will  receive 
a  share  in  the  resurrection — not  in  the 
first  resurrection,  but  they  will  be  res- 
urrected, and  will  be  brought  before 
the  bar  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  so  live 
that  there  will  be  no  danger  of  our  be- 
ing in  the  latter  classes,  but  that  we 
may  be  among  the  first  fruits  of  Christ. 
Sunday  after  Sunday  we  promise  that 
we  will  take  upon  us  His  name.  Let 
us  not  only  take  upon  us  His  name, 
but  show  in  very  deed  that  we  are  His.  N 
Let  us  follow  the  good  counsel  given 
us  this  morning,  live  our  holy  religion, 
carry  out  the  commandments  of  God, 
and  not  fear  what  man  may  say  con- 
cerning us.  We  know  what  we  have 
received;  we  know  that  this  work  is 
for  the  salvation  and  betterment  of 
men,  then  let  us  carry  out  its  prin- 
ciples. This  is  ray  advice  to  you.  God 
bless  you  all.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOHN  R.  WINDER. 
Missionary  work  at  home  and  abrad. 

I  have  no  doubt,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  but  that  you,  with  myself,  have 
greatly  rejoiced  in  what  we  have  heard 
from  Presidents  Smith  and  Lund.  With 
those  brethren,  I  join  in  extending  to 
you  a  hearty  greeting  to  this  confer- 
ence. When  I  think  that  many  of  you 
have  traveled  hundreds,  and  some  of 
you  thousands,  of  miles  to  visit  this 
Conference,  I  feel  in  my  heart  to  hope 
you  will  be  amply  repaid  for  your  jour- 
ney. I  trust  we  will  keep  in  mind  the 
good  instructions  we  have  already  re- 
ceived, and  that  we  will  be  more  dili- 
gent and  determined  to  serve  the  Lord 
with  all  our  might,  mind  and  strength. 
Our  motto,  as  I  understand  it,  is  "Peace 
on  Earth,  and  Good  Will  to  Men."  Some 
of  you,  my  brethren,  who  are  present 
today,  are  laboring  in  the  nations  of  thg 
earth,  endeavoring  to    enlighten  the 


ELDER  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 


9 


minds  of  those  who  are  in  darkness 
and  bring  them  to  a  knowledge  of  the 
truth.  I  have  no  doubt  the  feeling  in 
your  heart  all  the  time  is,  "Peace  on 
earth,  good  will  to  men."  While  we 
claim  the  right  to  serve  the  Lord  with 
full  purpose  of  heart,  in  our  own  way. 
we  have  no  wish  to  deprive  others  from 
doing  the  same.  We  hope  and  expect 
to  always  have  the  privilege  of  serving 
the  Lord  as  we  feel  is  best,  and  while 
we  value  this  privilege  ourselves,  we 
extend  the  same  right  to  everybody  on 
the  face  of  the  earth.  I  rejoice  this, 
morning,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in 
the  progress  of  the  work,  and  the  good 
reports  we  receive  from  the  utmost 
"bounds  where  our  brethren  are  laboring. 
There  is  a  gratifying  growth  and  in- 
crease everywhere,  so  far  as  we  can 
learn.  It  is  remarkable  the  inquiries 
that  are  now  being  made  in  relation  to 
the  Gospel;  and  while  I  rejoice  in  what 
the  missionaries  are  doing  abroad, "  I 
sometimes  think  what  a  difference  in 
experience  there  is  right  here  on  this 
Temple  block.  Here  we  have  estab- 
lished a  bureau  of  information,  and  a 
number  of  brethren  and  sisters  are 
called  to  act  as  missionaries  on  this 
block.  Instead  of  their  having  to  wan- 
der up  and  down  the  earth  seeking  for 
the  privilege  to  distribute  tracts  or  im- 
part information  in  relation  to  the  Gos- 
pel, hundreds  and  thousands  come  to 
them  to  obtain  information;  and  tens  of 
thousands  of  books  and  pamphlets  in 
relation  to  the  Gospel  have  been  dis- 
tributed by  the  brethren  and  sisters 
who  are  laboring  here.  What  a  change 
has  come  over  us!  I  believe  that  some 
of  you,  while  traveling  abroad,  will  find 
the  fruits  of  the  labor  on  this  block. 
Many  visitors,  if  they  do  not  obey  the 
Gospel  as  a  result  of  the  work  of  the 
missionaries  here,  at  least  become  more 
friendly  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  than 
they  were  before  they  visited  us. 

It  is  a  glorious  work,  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  we  are  engaged  in;  may 
we  never  tire  of  it,  but  always  be  wil- 
ling and  faithful  in  the  discharge  of 
every  duty  that  is  required  of  us.  I  feel 
thankful  that  the  Lord  has  preserved 
:  my  life,  and  permitted  me  to  meet  with 


you  here  on  the  seventy-fourth  anni- 
versary of  the  organization  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  If  anybody  on  earth  has  cause 
to  be  thankful  I  think  I  have.  The  Lords 
has  permitted  me  to  live  to  see  almost 
my  eighty-third  year,  and  I  am  deeply 
thankful  to  Him  for  His  goodness. 
While  life  shall  last  I  propose  to  work 
more  energetically  and  faithfully  than  I 
have  done  hitherto,  if  the  Lord  will  help 
me  to  do  it.  God  bless  you  all,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  is  my  prayer  in 
the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 

"In  Our  Redeemer's  Name." 

Benediction  by  Eider  Lewis  W.  Shurt- 
liff. 

AFTERNOON  SESSION. 
The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 

"Lift  up  the  Voice  in  Singing." 
Prayer  by  Elder  James  H.  Hart. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 
"The  Overthrow  of  Gog  and  Magog." 

PRESIDENT  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 

Causes  of  the  unity  of  the  Saints— Necessity  for 
continuous  faithfulness  to  God— An  admonition 
to  the  people. 

It  is  about  three  years  since  I  stood 
before  so  large  a  congregation.  Dur- 
ing that  time  I  have  been  abroad,  and 
have  always  felt  that  we  were  greatly 
favored  when  we  could  meet  from 
one  hundred  to  six  hundred  peo- 
ple. I  greatly  desire  your  sym- 
pathy, your  faith  and  prayers,  and 
the  blessing  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 
If  the  Lord  speaks  through  me,  I  am 
sure  I  shall  be  edified  in  speaking  and 
you  will  be  in  listening.  I  greatly  en- 
joyed the  measure  of  the  Spirit  given  to 
our  brethren  this  morning,  and  the 
word  of  the  Lord  that  we  listened  to 
through  them.  I  feel  disposed  to  read 
to  you  a  few  words  uttered  by  the 
Savior  on  the  occasion  of  His  first  visit 
to  the  people  of  Nephi.  They  are  to  be 
found  in  the  eleventh  chapter  of  III 
Nephi,  in  the  Book  of  Mormon: 

"And  the  Lord  commanded  him  (Ne- 
phi) that  he  should  arise.  And  he 
arose  and  stood  before  them. 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


"And  the  Lord  said  unto  him,  I 
give  unto  you  power  that  ye  shall  bap- 
tize this  people  when  I  am  again  as- 
cended into  heaven. 

"And  again  the  Lord  called  others, 
and  said  unto  them  likewise;  and  he 
gave  unto  them  power  to  baptize.  And 
he  said  unto  them,  On  this  wise  shall 
ye  baptize;  and  there  shall  be  no  dis- 
putations among  you. 

"Verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  whoso 
repenteth  of  his  sins  through  your 
words,  and  desireth  to  be  baptized  in 
my  name,  on  this  wise  shall  ye  bap- 
tize them;  behold,  ye  shall  go>  down  and 
stand  in  the  water,  and  in  my  name 
shall  ye  baptize  them. 

"And  now  behold,  these  are  the 
words  which  ye  shall  say,  calling  them 
by  name,  saying, 

"Having  authority  given  me  of  Jesus 
Christ,  I  baptize  you  in  the  name  of 
the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  Amen. 

"And  then  shall  ye  immerse  them  in 
the  water,  and  come  forth  again  out 
of  the  water. 

"And  after  this  manner  shall  ye 
baptize  in  my  name,  for  behold,  verily 
I  say  unto  you,  that  the  Father,  and 
the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost  are  one; 
and  I  am  in  the  Father,  and  the 
Father  in  me,  and  the  Father  and  I 
are  one. 

"Ana  according  as  I  have  commanded 
you  thus  shall  ye  baptize.  And  there 
shall  be  no  ■  disputations  among  you, 
as  there  hath  hitherto  been;  neither 
shall  there  be  disputations  among  you 
concerning  the  points  of  my  doctrine, 
as  there  hath  hitherto  been; 

"For  verily,  verily  I  say  unto  you, 
he  that  hath  the  spirit  of  contention 
is  not  of  me,  but  is  of  the  devil,  who 
is  the  father  of  contention,  and  he  stir- 
reth  up  the  hearts  of  men  to  contend 
with  anger,  one  with  another. 

"Behold,  this  is  not  my  doctrine,  to 
stir  up  the  hearts  of  men  with  anger, 
one  against  another;  but  this  is  my 
doctrine,  that  such  things  should  be 
dene  away. 

"Behoid;  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto 
you,  I  will  declare  unto  you  my  doc- 
trine. 

"And  this  is  my  doctrine,  and  it  is 
the  doctrine  which  the  Father  hath 
given  unto  me;  and  I  bear  record  of  the 
Father,  and  the  Father  beareth  record 
of  me,  and  the  Holy  Ghost  beareth 
record  of  the  Father  and  me,  and  I 
bear  record  that  the  Father  com- 
mandeth  all  men,  everywhere,  to  re- 
pent and  believe  in  me; 

"And  whoso  believeth  in  me,  and  is 
baptized,  the  same  shall  be  saved;  and 
they  are  they  who  shall  inherit  the 
kingdom  of  God. 

"And  whoso  believeth  not  in  me,  and 
is  not  baptized,  shall  be  damned. 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  that 


this  is  my  doctrine,  and  I  bear  record 
of  it  from  the  Father;  and  whoso  be- 
lieveth in  me  believeth  in  the 
Father  also,  and  unto  him  will 
the  Father  bear  record  of  me; 
for  He  will  visit  him  with  fire,  and  with 
the  Holy  Ghost. 

"And  thus  will  the  Father  bear  rec- 
ord of  me,  and  the  Holy  Ghost  will  bear 
record  unto  him  of  the  Father  and  me; 
for  the  Father,  and  I,  and  the  Holy 
Ghost  are  one." 

It  is  a  great  mystery  to  the  people  of 
the  world  how  the  Latter-day  Saints 
hold  so  unitedly  together  as  a  peo- 
ple, why  there  is  such  a  fraternal,  bind- 
ing feeling  existing  between  them. 
Quite  generally  they  look  upon  it  as 
the  result  of  compulsory  power,  exer- 
cised by  the  leaders  of  the  Church.  How 
incorrect  this  idea  is!  What  holds  this 
people  together  so  solidly,  and  what 
makes  them  willing  to  labor  for  the  sal- 
vation of  the  children  of  men,  at  the 
sacrifice  of  their  own  worldly  affairs 
and  interest,  is  answered  in  the  text  I 
have  just  read  to  you.  These  words 
were  uttered  on  the  occasion  of  the  visit 
of  the  Savior  to  the  Nephites.  The  Sa- 
vior's ministry  in  the  flesh  commenced 
when  the  Father  announced:  "This  is 
my  beloved  Son,  in  Whom  I  am  well 
pleased."  That  was  the  introduction  of 
the  Son,  by  the  Father,  to  the  people  in 
Judea.  That  also  was  the  Introduction 
by  the  Father  to  the  Nephites,  in  the 
land  Bountiful,  after  the  Savior  had 
been  crucified,  resurrected,  and  had  as- 
cended to  the  Father.  With  this,  as  in 
Judea,  He  introduced  the  Gospel  among 
the  Nephites.  We  find  also  that,  in  our 
own  day,  the  Father  has  deigned  to 
speak  again,  and  introduce  His  Son, 
Jesus,  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  The 
Savior,  as  in  Judea,  and  in  the  land 
Bountiful,  so  in  our  own  beloved  coun- 
try, started  the  work  of  the  Lord, 
and  taught  His  doctrines  to  the  Proph- 
et Joseph,  to  Oliver  Cowdery,  and  to 
others,  giving  them  authority  to  preach 
the  Gospel,  to  baptize  repentant  sinnerg 
and  to  install  them  as  members  of  His 
Church.  Having  done  this,  the  Father 
bearing  record  of  the  Son  and  the  Son 
bearing  record  of  the  Father,  He  an- 
nounced the  sacred  truths  of  the  Gospel, 
and  declared  it  is  eternal  life  to  know 


ELDER  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 


11 


God  and  Jesus  Christ  whom  He  hath 
sent;  and  that  it  is  necessary  to  receive 
the  Holy  Ghost,  who  is  given  to  all  who 
repent  of  their  sins  and  are  baptized  for 
the  remission  of  them.  This  is  the 
course  that  has  been  taken  in  the  intro- 
duction' of  the  Gospel,  as  recorded  in 
the  Jewish  and  Nephite  scriptures,  and 
in  the  scriptures  of  the  present  day.  The 
form  of  baptism,  the  words  to  be  used, 
the  declaration  of  faith  and  repentance 
necessary,  are  the  same  in  all  the 
scriptures.  All  the  doctrines  laid  down 
by  the  Savior  for  the  salvation  of  the 
children  of  men  are  indispensable;  no 
man  in  this  or  any  generation  can  ever 
enter  into  and  inherit  the  kingdom  of 
God,  except  he  believes  and  obeys  these 
doctrines.  They  who  receive  and  con- 
form to  these  principles,  receive  the 
Father,  and  the  Son,  and  the  Holy 
Ghost,  through  their  faith,  repentance, 
obedience,  integrity,  and  devotion  to1 
the  work  of  God  while  they  live  in  the 
flesh.  The  Holy  Ghost  inspires  every 
faithful  heart.  It  is  His  power  that 
brings  you  here  today;  it  is  His  in- 
spiration that  prompted  you  to  leave 
your  homes,  to  travel  hundreds  of  miles 
to  the  headquarters  of  the  Church,  for 
the  purpose  of  worshiping  the  Lord 
and  listening  to  the  counsels  of  His  ser- 
vants. The  Lord  has  spoken  to  us  to- 
day by  the  inspiration  of  His  Spirit.  Ho 
has  been  present  with  us  by  His  Spirit 
Every  Latter-day  Saint  has  been  moved 
upon  by  that  same  Spirit,  and  record 
has  been  borne  in  our  hearts  that  we 
have  listened  to  the  word  and  the  will 
of  the  Lord.  That  is  the  power,  the 
secret  power,  that  binds  our  hearts  to- 
gether and  makes  them  respond  as  one, 
no  matter  where  we  may  be.  "We  may 
be  thousands  of  miles  apart,  yet  we 
are  in  unison,  because  bound  together 
and  inspired  by  the  one  Spirit.  It  is  the 
same  Spirit  which  binds  the  Father  and 
the  Son  and  makes  them  one.  As  the 
Father  and  the  Son  are  one,  so  are  we 
one.  This  is  accomplished  through  our 
faith,  repenting  of  our  sins,  cleansing 
our  hearts,  and  living  lives  of  purity 
before  Him.  We  may  make  a  good 
start,  but  if  we  fail  to  continue  in  our 


good  works  and  in  our  devotion  to  the 
Lord,  that  Spirit  will  diminish  within 
us,  and  as  His  influence  grows  less 
within  us,  we  are  inclined  to  divide  one 
against  the  other  and  receive  the  spirit 
of  the  world.  Then  it  is  that  every 
man  is  for  himself,  following  the  imag- 
inations of  his  own  heart  instead  of  be- 
ing guided  by  the  inspiration  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  I  would  like  us  to  under- 
stand and  realize  this.  Every  Latter- 
day  Saint  is  an  important  factor 
in  this  great  Latter-day  work. 
In  a  sense,  the  Lord  counts  upon 
you,  my  brother,  my  sister,  mv  neigh- 
bor, my  friend.  He  depends  upon  you, 
He  needs  you  in  His  work,  He  needs 
your  service,  your  faith,  your  attention; 
He  needs  you  to  stay  at  home  and  He 
needs  you  to  go  abroad;  He  needs  you 
to  hold  official  positions,  and  He  needs 
you  to  labor  without  official  positions; 
He  needs  your  services  every  day,  un- 
der the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  .  Ghost. 
Not  that  His  work  depends  upon  you, 
but  only  for  your  salvation,  He  needs 
our  righteous  services  that  we  may  be 
saved;  He  needs  my  services  that  I 
may  be  saved  and  redeemed;  He  needs 
my  devotion  and  faithfulness  every  day 
of  my  life.  My  life  will  not  be  too  long, 
neither  will  yours,  and  the  nearer  we 
come  to  the  end,  the  shorter  will  appear 
to  us  the  time  the  Lord  has  allowed  us 
to  live  on  the  earth.  We  may  regret 
hereafter  that  we  have  not  made  bet- 
ter use  of  the  years  that  have  been  al- 
lowed us,  for  at  most  they  are  not 
many.  A  hundred  years  is  not  a  very 
lengthy  period,  and  few  of  us,  if  any, 
will  live  to  that  age.  As  we  get  into 
the  sixties,  seventies,  and  eighties,  the 
time  begins  to  seem  remarkably  short 
to  us.  We  may  then  wish  we  had  work- 
ed harder,  had  been  more  faithful,  and 
devoted  more  hours  and  minutes  to  the 
service  of  the  Lord.  We  realize  the 
fact — which  is  as  true  as  that  we  are 
here  today — that  every  man  is  reward- 
ed according  to  the  extent  and  quality 
of  his  life's  work;  just  as  men  are  re- 
warded by  earthly  employers  accord- 
ing to  the  diligence,  devotion,  faithful- 
ness, wisdom  and  judgment  they  ex- 
ercise in  the  labors  they  perform.  The 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Lord  requires  of  us  the  choicest  efforts 
we  can     make — intellectual,  physical, 
moral  and  spiritual,  all  that  we  can  ac- 
complish.   He  desires  that  we  shall  be 
amply  rewarded,  and  the  supply  of  re- 
ward and  blessing  for  the  children  of 
men  is  not  limited.    There  is  an  abun- 
dance for  every  man,  woman  and  child 
that  ever  was  or  ever  will  be  upon  the 
earth.     After   they  have  received  all 
they  earn  through  their  faithfulness, 
there  will  be  a  boundless  store  of  bless- 
ings left.  As  eternity  continues  and  can 
never  grow  less,so  the  blessings  and  fa- 
vor of  the  Lord  are  not  wasted  or  di- 
minished by  the  appropriation  of  them; 
hence  we  need  not  fear  they  will  become 
exhausted.     Space,  matter,  truth  and 
righteousness  are  illimitable  and  the 
blessings  and  favor  of  the  Lord  are  also 
limitless.    We  are  confined  to  the  lit- 
tle world  we  live    upon    today — a  few 
thousand  miles  around  it — and  that  is 
the  limit  we  can  traverse  in  worldly 
affairs;  but  it  is  not  the  limit  of  the 
universe.    The  numberless  worlds  like 
this,   and   the  inexhaustible  materials 
of  which  they  are  made,  are  incompre- 
hensible to  our  minds.    Men  are  limit- 
less also  in  number.    The  few  hundred 
millions  who  dwell  upon  this  earth  to- 
day are  but  as  "a  drop  in  the  bucket" 
compared  with  the  posterity  of  our  Fa- 
ther who  dwells  in  heaven.   One  reason 
we  are  here  is  that  we  may  have  pos- 
terity, that  we  may  multiply  and  re- 
plenish the  earth,  and  increase  in  num- 
bers.   'We  are  here  that  we  may  in- 
crease also  in  righteousness,  and  in  all 
things  that  are  essential  to  salvation. 
We  are  here  to  lay  the  foundation  for 
these  purposes,  and  we  have  not  time  to 
waste,  we  cannot  spare  one  moment; 
every  hour  needs  to  be  utilized,  and 
most  precious  they  will  appear  to  ua 
when  we  come  near  to  the  end.  When 
a  man  who  has    neglected   his  duties 
feels  that  there  are  only  a  few  years, 
or  a  few  weeks,  more  time  allotted  to 
him,  how  he  does  want  to  live;  how  he 
wishes  he  had  gone  to  the  temple;  how 
he  wishes  he  had  performed  a  mission 
abroad,  or  more  missions;  how  he  wish- 
es he  had  been  devoted  all  his  life  to 
the  work  of  the  Lord.    Perhaps  he  has 


a  taste  of  the  joy  of  having  done  a  lit- 
tle; has  worked  a  few  years — forty  or 
fifty — but  wishes  he  had  done  more.  He 
hag  spent,  possibly,  too  much  of  his 
time  endeavoring  to  gather  means.  He 
may  not  have  gathered  much,  because 
men  are  not  numerous '  who 
gather  a  great  deal  of  means; 
as  a  rule,  we  have  but  little. 
We  may  not  have  been  sufficiently 
devoted  to  the  things  of  God,  to  the  in- 
terests of  Zion,  to  spreading  the  doc- 
trines of  the  Lord,  and  to  using  an  in- 
fluence with  our  neighbors  and  friends 
at  home  and  abroad,  to  bring  them  to 
repentance  and  salvation. 

Let  me  exhort  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  who  are  here  today  in  many 
thousands,  oh!  be  determined  from  this 
time  to  serve  the  Lord  more  diligently 
the  rest  of  your  lives.    I  want  to  do  it 
myself.    Let  us  all  serve  the  Lord  bet- 
ter;  let  us  be  more  faithful  and  de- 
voted, let  us  be  more  consistent  and 
wise,  let  us  do  our  duty  faithfully  and 
well  as  Latter-day  Saints,  as  citizens 
of  the  cities,  counties  and  states  of  our 
nation.  Let  us  see  how  much  we  can  do 
that  may  assist  men  to  be  blessed  and 
redeemed,  that  they  may  be  warned  and 
brought  up  out  of  their1  fallen  state  in- 
to a  condition  of  righteousness,  with  the 
favor  and  blessing    of  God  upon  their 
heads.  Let  us  live  so  that  we  may  en- 
joy the  knowledge,inspiration,  and  light 
that  was  so  beautifully  portrayed  to 
the  Nephites,  as  I  have  read  to  you. 
The  same  doctrines  and  principles  have 
been  laid  just  as  plainly  before  us,  in 
the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  to  this 
people,  as  they  were  to  the  Nephites 
and  to  ancient  Israel.    There  has  been 
the  same  carefulness  and  consideration 
from  our  heavenly  Father  and  His  Son, 
Jesus  Christ,  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  and 
the  same  manifestation  of  powers,  gifts 
and  graces  unto-  this  people  as  was 
extended  to  Israel  in  Judea,  and  unto 
the  Nephites.    The  Lord  has  been  mer- 
ciful and  kind  unto  us  in  this  dispensa- 
tion, and  has  set  His  hand  for  the  last 
time;  in  other  words,  has  planted  His 
work  for  the  last  time  upon  this  earth, 
and  it  will  remain  unto  the  end.  This 
work  will  yet  be  tolerated  by  the  peoples 


ELDER  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 


13 


of  the  world.  We  will  remain  among 
them;  we  will  he  friendly  and  seek  to 
do  good  to  them;  we  will  labor  for  their 
salvation,  as  we  have  ever  done,  and 
still  better  as  we  learn  how  to  work 
more  wisely. 

It  is  delightful  to  meet  with  such  a 
body  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  Spirit 
which  comes  upon  every  man  who  re- 
pents and  is  baptized  for  the  Remission 
of  his  sins,  is  with  this  people.  We  en- 
joy it  every  day,  possibly  not  as  much 
as  we  ought  to,  but  we  do  possess  it 
nevertheless.  We  have,  it  in  our  meet- 
ings, in  our  wards,  in  our 
organizations,  and  in  the  councils  of  the 
Priesthood.  We  are  thus  inspired  of 
the  Lord,  and  made  one.  We  enjoy 
that  Sprit  until  it  becomes  almost  com- 
mon with  us.  We  do  not  always  real- 
ize what  a  large  measure  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  is  in  our  homes  with  our 
families,  enabling  us  to  live  for  years 
together  without  contention.  Under  its 
influence  a  man  may  live  a  long  life- 
time without  quarreling  with  his 
neighbors.  Although  the  Lord  has  pro- 
vided Church  courts  to  adjust  difflcul-- 
ties,  and  officials  to  correct  iniquity  in 
members  of  the  Church,  every  Latter- 
day  Saint  should  see  to  it  that  he  en- 
joys a  measure  of  inspiration  sufficient 
to  take  care  of  himself,  to  direct  and 
control  his  own  life,  to  bring  out  all 
the  good  that  is  in  him,  and  prevent 
him  doing  anything  that  is  wrong,  or 
that  would  make  trouble  with  his 
neighbor;  always  living  by  the  rule  of 
right  and  peace  that  brings  happiness 
to  humanity.  Everyone  of  us  should 
endeavor  to  act  that  way.  I  should 
walk  among  the  children  of  men  so  that 
no  exceptions  need  be  taken  to  my 
course  of  life.  I  ought  to  be  so  modest, 
reserved,  and  circumspect  in  every 
movement  of  my  life,  and  in  my  min- 
istry, that  no  man  or  woman  will  feel 
offended  at  me,  otherwise  I  have  need 
to  repent  and  reform.  You,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  should  walk  in  like 
manner.  Let  us  all  so  order  our  lives 
that  we  may  be  able  to  approach  our 
heavenly  Father.  When  there  is  sick- 
ness in  our  families,  or  when  we  are 


called  to  administer  to  the  sick  among 
our  neighbors,  we  should  always  be 
prepared  with  influence  and  power  from 
the  Lord  to  bestow  blessings,  impart 
counsel,  or  exhort  the  people,  and  pos- 
sibly reprove  sometimes,  helping  all  in 
the  path  that  leads  to  eternal  life.  By 
observance  of  the  laws  of  the  Lord  we 
are  led  in  the  straight  and  narrow 
way,  and  the  Holy  Spirit  alone  can  keep 
us  there.  We  have  power  to  so  live 
that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  dwell 
with  us.  We  cannot  be  Latter-day 
Saints  without  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord; 
and  should  not  try  to  live  without  it. 
Do  not  try  to  speak  without  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord;  do  not  try  to  build  up 
the  kingdom  of  God  without  the 
direction  of  His  Spirit.  If  we 
endeavor  to  do  these  things  by  our  own 
wisdom  we  will  be  sure  to  go  astray 
and  make  mistakes.  It  is  the  office  and 
calling  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to 
dwell  with  you  always;  to  be  in  your 
homes  with  your  families;  in  your 
neighborhoods,  and  in  your  business  af- 
fairs, on  the  Sabbath  day  and  through- 
out the  week,  and  every  day  in  the 
year,  if  you  do  right. 

The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  should  dwell 
richly  in  our  hearts,  for  the  redeemed 
are  the  temples  of  that  Spirit.  We  are 
sent  here  that  the  Spirit  of  God  may 
domicile  in  our  hearts.  That  was  a  part 
of  the  design  in  our  coming.  Without 
it,  joy  cannot  be  obtained,  and  the  ob- 
ject of  our  being  will  not  be  realized. 
By  the  inspiration  of  that  Spirit,  when 
President  Smith  and  his  brethren  stand 
up  here  and  speak  to  us,  we  know  that 
the  Lord  is  with  them;  we  feel  it  in  our 
bones,  and  in  every  fiber  of  our  being, 
that  God  is  with  the  President  and 
speaks  through  him.  Our  hearts  are 
touched,  and  the  Spirit  of  God  bears 
record  in  our  souls  that  he  is  a  man  of 
God.  He  has  done  the  will  of  the  Lord, 
and  we  recognize  the  spirit  and  power 
by  which  he  speaks.  That  is  your  priv- 
ilege, my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  well 
as  it  is  mine.  You  have  recog- 
nized unquestionably  that  the  Spirit  of 
God  has  inspired  the  words  spoken. 
Thus  the  Lord  has  spoken,  the  word  of 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  Lord,  the  mind  of  the  Lord,  and 
the  purposes  of  the  Lord  have  been  an- 
nounced through  his  servants  to  whom 
we  have  listened. 

The  Lord  is  with  this  people.  He 
has  not  forsaken  them  because  the 
Prophet  Joseph  was  slain.  He  has  not 
forsaken  this  work  because  the  Proph- 
et's successors  have  passed  away.  He 
will  not  forsake  this  work,  though 
those  who  preside  now  may  die;  and 
those  who  lead  Israel  today  will  no 
doubt  pass  away  in  due  time  when  their 
work  is  accomplished.  But  this  work 
will  go  on  and  endure;  it  will  increase, 
as  it  has  done;  it  will  spread  over  the 
borders  into  the  states  and  territories 
that  surronud  us,  and  our  neighbors 
will  love  us  and  bless  us,  and  will  seek 
after  us.  They  will  appreciate  the  peo- 
ple who  belong  to  this  Church;  for  they 
are  a  good  people,  as  a  rule. 
They  love  righteousness,  they  are  hon- 
est, upright  and  virtuous;  they  are 
ready  and  willing  to  do  what  God  re- 
quires; they  are  His  servants  and 
handmaidens,  and  are  not  easily  shaken 
in  their  faith,  thank  the  Lord!  Never 
mind  what  occurs;  never  mind  what 
my  weaknesses  are,  nor  what  any- 
body's weaknesses  are;  do>  not  trouble 
about  any  mistakes  that  may  be  made. 
Remember  that  the  Lord  makes  no 
mistakes.  Men  make  mistakes,  but 
God  never  does.  He  knows  what  is 
right  and  proper.  He  knows  what 
should  be  done,  and  how  and  when  it 
should  be  done;  and  He  leads  His 
Church  and  people  gently  along,  and 
will' lead  them  unto  salvation. 

This  is  my  testimony  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  after  I  have  been 
away  from  you  three  years.  Oh!  how 
I  have  rejoiced  when  I  have  heard 
and  read  of  the  prosperity  of  Zion,  and 
felt  the  spirit  of  Zion.  With  all  the 
changes  that  have  been  made,  I  have 
been  able  to  recognize  that  the  Lord  is 
here.  It  makes  no  difference  what 
changes  may  come,  the  Lord  never 
changes.  He  is  here,  and  you  are  His 
sons  and  daughters.  He  has  inspired 
you,  and  He  would  inspire  you  many 
times'  more  if  you  would  put  your- 
selves in  condition  to  receive  more 
of  His  Spirit. 


I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  you.  It  is 
hard  for  me  to  talk  so  loud  and  to 
such  a  large  congregation,  and  I  shall 
have  to  cease;  I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless 
Icrael  and  the  leaders  of  Israel.  I  pray 
the  Lord  to  stay  with  us  by  His  Spirit 
and  never  forsake  us;  for  in  Him  we 
have  strength  and  power,  wisdom  and 
judgment,  and  He  will  control  and 
guide  us.  He  will  bless  these  men  who 
are  called  to  stand  at  the  head  of 
stakes;  He  will  bless  our  sisters  who 
stand  at  the  head  of  associations;  He 
will  pour  out  His  Spirit  on  them,;  He 
will  remember  the  mothers  who  take 
care  of  the  households,  and  who  train 
their  children  in  the  way  of  life  and 
salvation;  and  He  will  bless  all.  the 
families  of  the  Saints.  God  will  be 
with  us  and  sustain  us.  I  thank  Him 
for  the  measure  of  His  Spirit  that  we 
enjoy  today  in  this  splendid  T£l)".r- 
nacle.  God  bless  Israel  forever,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.    .A  mm. 

The  choir  then  sang,  "Who  Are  These 
Arrayed  in  White,"  the  duet  part  being 
rendered  by  Mrs.  Bessie  Browning  and 
William  Phillips. 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 

Christ  a  revelation  of  God  to  man— Pre-existence 
and  immortality  of  man. 

Very  much  to  my  surprise  I  have  been 
called  upon  to  address  this  splendid  con- 
gregation. In  my  own  heart  I  could 
wish  that  the  task  had  been  assigned  to 
another;  for  I  do  not  believe  that  any 
man  can  stand  before  a  congregation 
of  this  kind  without  feeling  his  own 
unworthiness  and  his  own  limitations, 
which  make  him  sense  the  truth  that  he 
is  not  sufficient  for  the  task.  So  I  feel 
on  this  occasion  that  if  I  can  bring 
my  own  heart  and  soul  into  attune 
with  the  Infinite,  and  can  receive  the 
help  that  comes  from  the  possession  of 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  then,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  something  of  profit, 
something  uplifting  in  its  nature,  some- 
thing that  tends  to  strengthen  faith 
and  to  increase  knowledge,  may  be 
brought  forth. 

As  the  brethren  who  have  preceded 
me  this  day,  so  I  will  exalt  the  Lord 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS. 


15 


in  your  presence.  When  I  think  of 
man,  of  his  weaknesses  and  limitations. 
I  truly  feel  the  need  of  turning-  to  our 
Father  and  bringing  Him  forth,  to- 
gether with  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and 
the  Holy  Spirit,  as  the  center  of  our 
faith  and  the  circumference  of  our 
hope.  This  morning  the  President  an"! 
Brother  Lund  brought  forth  a  beauti- 
ful theme  suggested  by  this  day,  com- 
monly accepted  as  the  anniversary  of 
the  Resurrection  of  the  Lord.  While  it 
is  common  to  deal  with  a  great  variety 
of  subjects  in  these  general  conferences 
— and  indeed  the  necessities  of  the  peo- 
ple require  the  consideration  of  a  variety 
of  subjects — I  think  it  is  well  and  in 
harmony  with  the  whole  atmosphere  of 
our  work,  and  of  this  day,  to  devote 
thought  to  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  to 
speak  of  Him  and  honor  Him  in  our 
hearts,  and  be  put  in  remembrance  of 
Him  and  the  great  atonement  He  has 
wrought  out  for  the  children  of  men. 
Believing  this  subject  to  be  worthy  of 
our  consideration,  it  has  occurred  to  me 
that  I  could  not  do  better  than  to  read 
to  you  some  items  from  His  history,  as 
told  in  that  beautiful  simple  manner 
in  which  it  is  contained  in  the  Scrip- 
tures. I  read  to  you  from'  the  Gospel 
of  Matthew: 

"In  the  end  of  the  Sabbath,  as  it  be- 
gan to  dawn  toward  the  first  day  of  the 
week,  came  Mary  Magdalene  and  the 
other  Mary  to  see  the  supulchre  (in 
which  the  Lord  had  lain). 

"And  behold,  there  was  a  great  earth- 
quake: for  the  angel  of  the  Lord  des- 
cended from  heaven,  and  came  and 
rolled  back  the  stone  from  the  door,  and 
sat  upon  it. 

"His  countenance  was  like  lightning, 
and  his  raiment  white  as  snow: 

"And  for  fear  of  him  the  keepers  did 
shake,  and  became  as  dead  men." 

These  keepers,  you  will  perhaps  re- 
member, were  appointed  to  watch  the  se- 
pulchre at  the  suggestion  of  the  Jewish 
Priests,  lest  the  disciples  of  Jesus 
should  come  by  night  and  steal  away 
the  body  of  the  Lord,  and  then  report 
that  he  had  risen  from  the  dead ;  for 
they  remembered  that  it  had  been  part 
of  .one  of  his  discourses  that  though  he 
should  be  crucified  he  would  arise  from 
the  dead  on  the  third  day.  Recalling 


this,  the  Sanhedrin  inspired  the  ap- 
pointment of  certain  men  to  watch  the 
sepulchre,  lest  his  body  should  be  stol- 
en. 

"And  the  angel  answered  and  said 
unto  the  women,  Pear  not  ye:  for  I 
know  that  ye  seek  Jesus,  which  was 
crucified. 

"He  is  not  here:  for  he  is  risen,  as 
he  said.  Come,  see  the  place  where  the 
Lord  lay. 

"And  go  quickly  and  tell  his  disciples 
that  he  is  risen  from  the  dead  and,  be- 
hold, he  goeth  before  you  into  Galilee; 
there  shall  ye  see  him:  lo,  I  have  told 
you. 

"And  they  departed  quickly  from  the 
sepulchre  with  fear  and  great  joy;  and 
did  run  to  bring  his  disciples  word. 

"And  as  they  went  to  tell  his  disci- 
ples behold,  Jesus  met  them,  saying, 
All  hail.  And  they  came  and  held  him 
by  the  feet,  and  worshiped  him. 

"Then  said  Jesus  unto  them,  Be  not 
afraid:  go  tell  my  brethern  that  they 
go  into  Galilee,  and  there  shall  they  see 
me. 

"Now  when  they  were  going,  behold, 
some  of  the  watch  came  into  the  city, 
and  shewed  unto  the  chief  priests  all 
things  that  were  done. 

"And  when  they  were  assembled  with 
the  elders,  and  had  taken  counsel,  they 
gave  large  money  unto  the  soldiers, 

"Saying,  Say  ye,  His  disciples  came 
by  night,  and  stole  him  away  while  we 
slept." 

It  must  have  been  indeed  a  large  re- 
ward that  these  hypocrites  and  liars 
gave  to  the  soldiers,  for  a  Roman  sol- 
dier to  go  to  sleep  at  his  post  on  duty 
was  a  capital  offense.    But  mark  this: 

"And  if  this  come  to  the  governor's 
ears,  we  will  persuade  him,  and  se- 
cure you. 

"So  they  took  the  money,  and  did  as 
they  were  taught:  and  this  saying  is 
commonly  reported  among  the  Jews  un- 
til this  day. 

"Then  the  eleven  disciples  went  away 
into  Galilee,  into  a  mountain  where 
Jesus  had  appointed  them. 

"And  when  they  saw  him,  they  wor- 
shiped him:  but  some  doubted. 

"And  Jesus  came  and  spake  unto 
them,  saying,  All  power  is  given  unto 
me  in  heaven  and  in  earth." 

"Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  na- 
tions, baptizing  them  in  the  name  of 
the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost. 

"Teaching  them  to  observe  all  things 
whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you: 
and,  lo,  I  am  with  you  alway,  even  un- 
to, the  end  of  the  world.  Amen." 

I  think  that  is  a  beautiful  chapter 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


worthy  of  all  acceptation.  Every  ef- 
fort for  effect,  all  the  tricks  and  cun- 
ning- of  so-called  skillful  writing-,  are 
absent,  and  the  truth  is  stated  in  that 
form  which  best  becomes  her— in  sim- 
plicity and  modesty.  I  read  this  chap- 
ter that  we  may  enter  into  its  spirit, 
and  have  it  recall  to  our  minds  the 
great  truths  relating  to  this  part  of  the 
life  of  our  Savior  and  Redeemer. 

I  rejoiced  this  afternoon  in  the  read- 
ing by  President  Lyman  from  the 
words  of  the  Third  Nephi,  wherein  the 
advent  of  the  Savior  into  this  western 
world  is  proclaimed,  and  where  so  ex- 
plicitly and  plainly  the  great  truths 
and  ordinances  of  salvation  are  set 
forth.  And  as  he  read  I  recalled  the 
fact  that  audiences  in  this  city  have 
been  listening  recently  to  criticisms  of 
the  book  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  known 
as  "Third  Nephi,"  and  the  question  has 
been  discussed  whether  or  not  it  is 
entitled  to  be  considered  a  "fifth  gos- 
pel." You  know  we  have  the  history 
of  Messiah's  birth,  life  and  ministry 
in  four  books  in  the  Jewish  scriptures, 
and  this  III  Nephi  gives  an  account 
of  his  ministry  on  this  hemisphere; 
and  as  I  say,  the  question  has  been 
discussed  as  to  whether  it  is  to  be 
considered  a  "fifth  gospel."  By  the 
way,  partly  in  objection,  it  has  been 
stated  that  it  contains  no  new  truth; 
that  it  is  unlike  the  gospels  in  the 
Jewish  Scriptures  in  this,  that  wrhile 
Mark  adds  something  to  what  Matthew 
has  said,  and  Luke  adds  something  to 
what  Mark  has  said,  and  the  gospel 
according  to  St.  John  is  generally  con- 
sidered the  supplementary  gospel  by 
way  of  pre-eminence,  because  it  adds 
so  much  that  the  others  have  omitted; 
but  it  is  claimed  that  the  Third  Book 
of  Nephi  or  the  "fifth  gospel,"  adds 
nothing  to  Christian  knowledge  con- 
cerning salvation.  They  are  very 
much  mistaken.  The  passage  which 
Elder  Lyman  read  here  this  afternoon 
would  put  to  silence  several  very  great 
controversies  throughout  Christendom 
if  men  would  but  accept  that  "fifth 
gospel."  This  remark,  however,  is 
merely  by  the  way. 

I  come  back  to  the  anniversary  that 


we  celebrate  on  this  day — the  resurrec- 
tion of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
I  am  glad  that  there  are  so 
many  millions  this  day  rejoic- 
ing in  this  one  great  truth  of 
the  Christian  religion — the  fact  of  the 
resurrection  of  the  dead;  the  hope  of 
immortality,  which  it  teaches  to  man- 
kind. The  various  sects  of  Christendom 
may  be  in  error  in  relation  to  many 
things,  and  in  error  concerning  some 
matters  pertaining  to  this  fact  of  the 
resurrection;  but  I  rejoice  that  through 
all  the  apostasy  from  the  true  religion 
of  Jesus  Christ  this  one  part  of  the 
Gospel  remains  in%the  minds  and  hearts 
of  so  many  people,  and  is  with  them  a 
hope  and  an  inspiration  to  higher  and 
to  better  living.  When  the  Church  as 
an  organization  ceased  to  exist;  when, 
as  we  may  say,  that  glorious  sun  set 
behind  the  horizon  of  man's  vision,  it 
did  leave,  at  least,  some  lights  in  the 
sky  that  reflected  some  portions  of  the 
truth  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
The  dispensation  of  the  gospel,  which 
we  call  the  dispensation  of  the  meridian 
of  time,  because  that  dispensation  was 
given  about  midway  between  the  com- 
mencement of  the  work  of  the  Lord  in 
this  world  by  the  creation  of  Adam,  and 
the  final  winding  up  scene  which  shall 
complete  the  salvation  of  men  and  the 
redemption  of  the  world — I  say  that 
that  dispensation  of  the  Gospel,  oc- 
curring midway  between  these  two 
great  events,  was  glorious  in  many  re- 
spects. It  was  glorious  in  this  for  one 
thing— it  brought  forth  a  full  and  com- 
plete revelation  of  God  through  the  per- 
son and  character  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  For,  in  addition  to  the  work  of 
redemption  that  He  wrought  out  for 
mankind,  Jesus  Christ  stood  forth  as 
the  revealed  Deity,  aSt  God  manifested 
in  the  flesh,  the  revelation  of  God  to 
man;  so  that  henceforth  all  the  mists 
that  befog  philosophy,  all  the  errors  of 
science  falsely  so  called,  all  the  mys- 
tery that  Paganism  had  interwover 
with  this  theme,  might  stand  remove 
from  the  vision  of  man,  and  hencefort 
God  should  be  known  not  only  as  to  th 
fact  of  His  being,  but  also  as  to  tht 
kind  of  being  He  is.    It  was  the  design 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS. 


17 


of  the  Lord  that  man  henceforth  should 
see  divinity — God  revealed  through  the 
person  and  character  of  Jesus  Christ. 
And  that  truth  remains  in  the  earth;  it 
is  a  standard  by  which  we  may  meas- 
ure the  teachings  of  any  who  shall 
come  proclaiming  Deity.  Does  he  meas- 
ure up,  and  is  He  identical  with  Jesus 
of  Nazareth,  the  revelation  of  God  to 
man?  If  not,  then  we  know  that  teach- 
er who  so  fails  is  in  error;  for  as  Jesus 
Christ  is  in  His  resurrected  immortal 
body  of  flesh  and  bone — as  Jesus  Christ 
is  in  His  mental,  moral  and  spiritual 
nature,  so  God  is. 

Now,  that  truth  came  forth  in  its 
fullness  in  the  dispensation  ot  the  meri- 
dian of  time,  and  also  this  splendid 
truth  which  is  having  such  an  influence 
in  the  hearts  of  men — the  resurrection 
of  the  dead.  The  great  truth  that  man 
must  live,  and  live  eternally;  that  he  is 
and  will  be,  in  his  resurrected  person- 
age, an  indestructible  being.  Running 
parallel  with  that  great  truth  is  this 
other  truth,  that  he  must  school  him- 
self to  live  in  harmony  with  truth  as 
God  reveals  it.  The  sooner  he  learns 
that  lesson  the  sooner  will 'he  be  in  the 
way  of  perpetual  and  eternal  happiness. 
He  must  conform  to  law,  for  it  is  uni- 
versal and  infinite.  It  is  everywhere  op- 
erating. Man  cannot  escape  it.  Ob- 
servance of  the  law  will  bring  him  hap- 
piness and  peace,  and  he  will  find  him- 
self in  harmony  with  all  the  infinities 
through  obedience  to(  law. 

These  are  some  of  the  splendid  truths 
of  our  common  Christian  heritage,  and 
I  am  very  happy  that  there  are  so  many 
millions  who  participate  with  us,  in 
part  at  least,  in  a  knowledge  of  these 
great  things. 

During  the  remarks  of  our  President 
this  morning  I  was  reflecting  upon  the 
subject  of  the  resurrection  of  the  Sa- 
vior, and  of  the  many  congregations 
that  would  assemble  to  do  Him  honor 
this  day,  and  I  thought,  what  is  it  that 
we  have  to  offer  the  world  that  they 
<to  not  now  possess?  For,  in  their  mis- 
conception of  this  latter-day  work,  men 
ave  narrowed  it  down  until  they  miss 
*he  really  fundamental  truths  upon 
which  the  Church  of  Christ  m  these 
last  days   is  based,  and  fail  to  grasp 


the  genius  of  this  great  work,  just  as  it 
has  been  explained  to  us  by  Elder  Ly- 
man, that  they  misconceive  the  bond 
that  unites  us,  the  force  that  impels  us 
to  united  action  and  makes  us,  by  way 
of  pre-eminence  the  united  people. 
And  this  thought  came  to  my  mind  in 
connection  with  the  resurrection,  name- 
ly, that  we  have  such  a  fullness  of  the 
truth,  that  we  believe  not  only  in  the 
immortality  of  man  after  his  resurrec- 
tion, but  we  believe  in  the  absolute  im- 
mortality of  the  intelligence  that  is 
within  him.  That  is  to  say,  we  be- 
lieve in  an  immortality  that  has  no  be- 
ginning, just  as  we  believe  in  an  im- 
mortality that  has  no  end.  Any  thing 
short  of  this  is  not  immortality.  John 
begins  his  Gospel  with  a  very  beauti- 
ful preface,  which  I  will  read  to  you. 
I  think,  by  the  way,  that  he  wrote  it 
because  when  he  composed  his  gospel 
pagan  ideas  had  begun  to  creep  into  the 
Church.  The  philosophy  of  Plato, 
which  was  the  rage  in  that  day.  had 
taken  possession  of  the  minds  of  the 
people.  Plato,  by  the  way,  ry\d  seized 
upon  some  great  truths,  and  among  oth- 
ers he  had  grasped,  at  least  in  part, 
the  meaning  of  man's  immortality,  the 
pre-existence  and  the  indestructibility 
of  man's  spirit.  So  I  think,  with  this 
in  mind,  and  in  order  to  state  the  truth 
exactly  to  the  followers  of  Jesus,  John 
started  this  beautiful  preface  of  his 
Gospel  by  saying: 

"In  the  beginning  was  the  Word,  and 
the  Word  was  with  God,  and  the  Wor ' 
was  God. 

"The  same  was  in  the  beginning  with 
God. 

"All  things  were  made  by  Him;  and 
without  Him  was  not  any  thing  made 
that  was  made. 

"In  Him  was  life;  and  the  life  was 
the  light  of  men." 

Later  on  he  said: 

"And  the  Word  was  made  flesh,  and 
dwelt  among  us,  (and  we  beheld  His 
glory,  the  glory  as  of  the  only  begot- 
ten of  the  Father)  full  of  grace  and 
truth." 

This  last  verse  identifies  Jesus  Christ 
with  "the  Word."  "The  Word"  that 
was  with  God,  that  was  God,  arid  that 
was.  made  flesh,  was  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.   This  statement  of  John's  in  the 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


preface  of  his  gospel,  has  reference  of 
course  to  the  pre-existent  spirit  of  Jesus 
and  to  the  estate  in  which  He  lived, 
moved,  and  had  a  tangible  being  with 
the  Father;  and  so  like  the  Father's 
spirit  that  we  may  say  He  was  of  the 
same  substance  with  the  Father.  In 
the  Christian  world,  belief  in  the  eter- 
nity of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  a  doc- 
trine quite  generally  accepted.  But 
"Mormonism"  has  a  word  to  speak  in 
this  connection  for  all  the  children  of 
men.  For  while  the  pre-existence  of 
the  spirit  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is 
a  great  truth,  there  is  a  still  greater 
truth  to  proclaim,  and  that  greater 
truth  is  part  of  the  message  that  "Mor- 
monism" has  to  deliver  to  the  world. 

In  a  revelation  given  in  1833  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  the  Lord  Jesus 
says: 

"And  now,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  I 
was  in  the  beginning  with  the  Father, 
and  am  the  first-born;" 

Now  mark  you: 

"Ye"  [meaning  the  Elders  whom  He 
addressed] — "ye  were  also  in  the 
beginning  with  the  Father;  that  which 
is  spirit,  even  the  spirit  of  truth,"  .  .  . 

"Man  was  al?o  in  the  beginning  with 
God.  Intelligence,  or  the  light  of 
truth,  was  not  created  or  made,  neither 
indeed  can  be. 

"All  truth  is  independent  in  that 
pphere  in  which  God  has  placed  it,  to 
act  for  itself,  as  all  intelligence  also, 
otherwise  there  is  no  existence. 

"Behold,  here  is  the  agency  of  man, 
and  here  is  the  condemnation  of  man, 
because  that  which  was  from  the  be- 
ginning is  plainly  manifest  unto  them, 
and  they  receive  not  the  light. 

"And  every  man  whose  spirit  receiv- 
eth  not  the  light  is  under  condemna- 
tion. 

"For  man  is  spirit. " 

Man  is  not  so  much  lime,  phosphate, 
and  other  gross  materials,  but  man  is 
spirit;  and  was,  like  Jesus,  in  the  be- 
ginning with  the  Father.  Intelligences 
are  begotten  spirits,  and  they  partake 
of  the  nature  of  him  who  begets  them. 
Paul  pays:  "We  have  had  Fathers  of 
cur  flesh  which  corrected  us  and  we 
gave  them  reverence:  shall  we  not 
much  rather  be  in  subjection  to  the 
Father  of  spirits  and  lfve?"  There  is 
this    difference,    I    think,    between  a 


created  thing  and  a  begotten  person- 
age: A  created  thing  may  not  partake 
of  the  nature  of  him  who  creates  it; 
as  for  instance,  the  vessel,  constructed 
and  put  forth  into  the  sea  under  the 
cunning  hands  of  the  shipwright,  does 
not  partake  of  the  nature  of  its  crea- 
tor; but  if  the  shipwright  shall  beget 
a  son,  he  imparts  to  him  of  his  own 
nature,  and  the  offspring  in  a  general 
way  is  like  him  who  begets  it.  So  when 
we  speak  of  God  creating  man  we 
ought  to  make  this  distinction.  God 
begets  intelligences,  spirits,  and  these 
s'pirits,  male  and  female,  partake  of  the 
nature  of  God.  Intelligence  itself  is 
uncreated,  self-existent;  and  these 
spirits  begotten  in  the  world  where 
God  dwells  are  afterwards  begotten 
men  and  women  here  in  the  flesh,  to 
follow  still  further  in  the  footsteps  of 
their  Father. 

This  is  the  great  truth  which  I  re- 
ferred to  a  moment  since  that  Mor- 
monism has  to  offer  to  the  world.  It  is 
a  principle  that  was  unknown  tO'  men 
in  our  generation  until  it  was  revealed 
through  God's  chosen  servant  in  these 
last  days,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
We  carry  this  message  in  our  right 
hand  to  the  world.  We  not  only  tell 
men  of  the  immortality  that  shall  be 
after  the  resurrection,  but  we  tell  them 
of  the  immortality  that  existed  before 
their  earth-life  began.  The  mists  that 
shroud  the  origin  of  man  and  that  per- 
plex the  philosophers  are  pushed  away, 
and  behold!  we  look  into  a  beginning- 
less  past,  as  we  look  forward  into  an 
endless  future.  Beginnings  can  only  be 
of  a  local  nature,  and  this  beginning 
spoken  of  here  when  Jesus  was  "in  the 
beginning  with  the  Father,"  and  when 
your  spirits  and  mine  were  "in  the  be- 
ginning with  the  Father,"  has  refer- 
ence only  to  things  pertaining  to  this 
mortal  life  of  ours,  and  this  earth  upon 
which  we  live,  and  does  not  refer  to 
duration  apart  from  these  local  events 
about  which  we  talk;  and  concerning 
which,  in  order  to  be  understood,  we 
have  to  speak  of  in  terms  that  are 
sometimes  in  themselves  paradoxical. 
As  Brother  Lyman  taught  us  this  after- 
noon, duration  itself  is  beginningless 
and  endless,  just  as  matter  is  exhaust- 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS. 


less,  and  cannot  be  created  and  can- 
not be  annihilated.  It  can  only  be 
changed  in  form  to  meet  the  purposes 
of  God  as  He  designs  the  development 
and  growth  of  His  universe. 

We  take  then  this  truth  to  the  world, 
the  truth  of  the  eternal  existence  of 
man's  intelligence.  And  what  will  be 
the  moral  effect  of  the  announcement 
of  such  a  doctrine?  A  spiritual  awak- 
ening. We  had  not  known,  neither  had 
our  fathers  known,  until  it  pleased  God 
to  reveal  it,  whence  man's  origin;  but 
now  we  begin  to  recognize  man's  im- 
portance in  the  world.  We  begin  to 
realize  that  his  intelligence,  the  spirit, 
exists  upon  tne  self  same  principle  upon 
which  God  exists.  We  speak  of  God  as 
a  self-existent  being",  and  the  doctrine  is 
true.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  taught 
that  man  also  was  a  self-existent  being, 
of  the  same  nature  as  his  Father.  I 
say  the  moral  effect  of  that  truth  in 
the  world  will  yet  beget  a  spiritual  up- 
lifting the  like  of  which  has  not  been 
known  in  the  ages  that  are  past. 

I  was  pleased  to  hear  the  hopeful 
notes  in  the  words  of  our  Brother  Ly- 
man,whom  we  are  as  glad  to  see  among 
us  as  he  is  to  see  us,  and  it  is  with 
warm  hearts  and  welcome  hands  that 
we  hail  his  return.  After  being  faithful, 
sturdy,  and  true  as  he  has  been 
while  abroad,  he  now  returns 
to  us,  and  we  bid  him  a  hearty 
welcome  in  this  general  conference. 
Let  me  be  your  mouthpiece  in  saying 
to  him,  Welcome,  Brother  Lyman!  I 
say  I  am  pleased  to  see  the  hopeful  note 
in  his  words  concerning  the  acceptance 
of  this  people  and  their  doctrines  by 
the  world.  Many  tens  of  thousands  will 
yet  receive  these  truths,  perhaps  not  di- 
rectly from  your  hands  nor  from  mine; 
but  already,  as  leaven  in  measures  of 
meal  are  these  principles  working,  and 
light  is  bursting  upon  the  intelligence 
of  the  children  of  men,  and  they  will 
yet  lay  hold  of  these  great  fundamental 
truths  of  ours;  either  directly  or  indi- 
rectly, and  so  shall  this  work  push  its 
way  among  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
until  our  Father's  children  (for  all  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth  are  His  chil- 
dren as  well  as  we  are)  shall  lay  hold 


19 

of  these  truths,  and  ultimately  be 
brought  to  an  acceptance  of  a  fulness  of 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  love  Mormonism.  I  love  it  because 
it  is  true — because  it  is  the  fullness  of 
truth.  And  then  I  rejoice  in  its  big- 
ness, in  its  grandeur.  I  love  its  spirit 
of  liberality,  as  manifested  here  in  the 
words  of  the  brethren  at  this  confer- 
ence. I  love  it  because  its  roots  run 
down  deep  into  the  great  things  of 
God,  and  it  is  as  a  tree  well  planted, 
that  the  winds  which  beat  upon  it  shall 
only  help  by  driving  its  roots  deeper 
into  the  soil,  spreading  further  to  right 
and  left,  establishing  itself  as  a  tree 
of  God's  planting,  under  whose  friendly 
branches  there  is  room  for  all  who  will 
come  unto  it;  and  whose  very  leaves 
are  sufficient  for  the  healing  of  the  na- 
tions. 

Mormonism  has  a  word  of  hope  for 
scattered  Israel;  it  has  a  word  of  hope 
for  the  poor,  wandering  Lamanite,  the 
fallen  son  of  noble  sires,  the  degenerate 
remnant  of  a  once  magificent  people. 
The  Gentiles,  in  their  pride,  look  upon 
him  and  despise  him.  They  see  his  foot- 
steps hastening  towards  what  they  re- 
gard as  utter  extinction.  But  we  arrest 
their  sneers  by  proclaiming  the  word  of 
God  that  there  is  hope  even  for  this  ap- 
parently helpless  race,  and  Laman  shall 
yet  be  remembered  by  the  Lord;  He  is 
under  covenant  to  do  it.  The  fathers 
of  old  prayed  in  behalf  of  their  poster- 
ity, and  God  heard  and  promised,  and 
the  children  shall  yet  be  blessed. 

We  have  a  word  of  hope  also  for  Ju- 
dah,  the  outcast,  the  one  people  against 
whom  every  man's  hand  has  been  rais- 
ed, and  who  have  been  persecuted  in 
ages  past  and  now  by  those  who  pre- 
tend to  be  followers  of  Jesus  Christ, 
who  Himself  was  of  this  same  Jewish 
race.  Does  it  not  seem  strange  that 
those  who  have  taken  upon  them  the 
name  of  Christ  should  be  the  most  bit- 
ter persecutors  of  His  race!  But  we 
have  a  word  of  hope  for  Judah.  We 
are  authorized  of  God  to  say  to  our 
Jewish  brethren,  that  Jerusalem  shall 
be  redeemed;  that  your  people  shall  yet 
plant  their  feet  in  the  land  of  promise; 
that  God  will  guard  your  state,  and 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


at  the  last,  in  a  splendid  display  of 
power  and  glory,  will  redeem  you  frOm 
the  nations  that  now  oppress  you. 

"We  have  a  word  of  warning-  to  the 
Gentile  races  upon  this  promised  land 
of  the  western  world.  Honor  the  God 
of  this  land,  says  our  Book  of  Mormon. 
If  ye  honor  Him  not,  but  steel  your 
hearts  against  Him,  however  great  our 
love  may  be  for  you,  the  warning 
word  of  God  is,  that  if  you  honor  not 
the  God  of  this  land,  who  is  Jesus 
Christ,  you  may  read  your  fate  in  the 
calamities  that  have  overtaken  the  for- 
mer nations,  who  in  pride  and  world- 
ly glory  once  occupied  this  land  from 
north  to  south  as  you  do.  But  we  will 
not  be  doubtful  of  you,  but  hopeful, 
that  you  will  honor  the  God  of  the 
land — Jesus  Christ.  We  will  proclaim 
peace,  and  the  peaceable  things  of 
God's  kingdom.  We  invite  and  exhort 
all  men  to  accept  these  principles  of  di- 
vine truth,  so  burdened  with  knowledge 
and  with  hope-giving  life,  and  so  pre- 
cious in  ministering  unto  man's  honor 
and  glory.  The  Lord  bless  you  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Singing  by  the  choir - 
"The  Lord  God  Omnipotent  reigneth." 

Benediction  by  Elder  Charles  W. 
Penrose. 


OVERFLOW  MEETING. 

An  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the 
Assembly  Hall.  Sunday,  April  3,  at  2 
p.m.  Elder  Hyrum  M.  Smith  of  the 
quorum  of  the  Twelve,  presided.  The 
Temple  choir  and  congregation  joined  in 
singing,  "Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day 
of  salvation."  Prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Joseph  Christenson.  The  choir 
then  sang,  "Hosanna  to  the  King." 

ELDER  NEPHI  L.  PRATT. 

(President     of     Northwestern  States 
Mision.) 

I  arise  to  speak  to  this  congregation 
in  fear  and  trembling.  I  hope,  while  we 
are  together  this  afternoon,  that  we 
will  be  blessed  with  the  Holy  Spirit  in 
great  abundance,  that  we  may  be  com- 
forted, and  have  our  faith  strengthened, 
and  be  instructed  as  the  Lord  would 


have  us,  that  when  we  leave  this  meet- 
ing, at  its  conclusion,  we  may  feel  we 
have  been  fed  with  the  bread  of  life. 

I  do  not  know  of  a  time  when,  in  the 
beginning  of  a  conference,  I  have  felt 
happier  or  more  satisfied  in  my  soul 
than  this  morning,  in  listening  to  the 
inspired  discourses  of  the  brethren. 
My  heart  was  made  to  rejoice  exceed- 
ingly. I  felt  that  to  be  with  the  Lord, 
to  feel  His  power  resting  upon  us,  even 
for  one  or  two  hours,  as  it  did  in  the 
meeting  in  the  tabernacle  this  morning, 
was  better  than  a  life-time  spent  in 
gratifying  ambition,  or  having  the 
pleasures  that  the  world  can  give. 

I  could  not  help  thinking  of  the  situa- 
tion of  the  wicked,  those  in  the  world 
who  are  without  the  light  and  know- 
ledge of  the  truth.  I  thought  also  of 
the  authority  and  power  that  rests  upon 
the  servants  of  God,  by  which  this  peo- 
ple are  led  and  instructed  from  time 
to  time.  My  heart  glorifies  God  that 
we  are  so  blessed,  in  the  midst  of  a 
world  of  people  filled  with  unbelief,  and 
I  wondered  why  we  have  been  selected 
out  of  all  the  world,  and  that  there  are 
so  few  of  us,  fortunate  ones  chosen  to 
perform  the  particular  work  of  the 
Lord  in  the  earth.  When  President 
Lund  was  speaking  this  morning,  he  di- 
rected our  minds  to  tne  glorious  future 
in  which  we  hope  to  obtain  life  ever- 
lasting. I  thought,  as  I  looked  over  the 
congregation  and  saw  the  white-headed 
men  that  are  among  us,  how  youth  is 
slipping  away  from  me,  and  from  thou- 
sands who,  a  few  yeas  ago,  had  brown 
or  black  hair,  bright  eyes  and  straight 
bodies.  I  looked  upon  these  people  to- 
day and  thought  of  how  mankind,  in 
our  present  state,  in  a  world  of  sorrow, 
sin  and  death,  is  subjected  to  the  or- 
deal of  gradually  losing  brightness  of 
eye,  straightness  of  form,  elasticity  of 
step,  the  dignified  carriage  of  youth  or 
middle  age,  and  becomes  old  and  de- 
crepit; and  I  thought,  where  is  there 
an  individual  among  men,  in  any  na- 
tion or  country,  who  would  not  give  the 
crown  of  a  king,  if  it  were  his  to  give, 
to  possess  the  eternal  life  and  power 
that  was  described  in  this  morning's 
discourse,  by  our  brother  who  spoke  up- 


ELDER  NEPHI  L.  PRATT. 


21 


on  the  resurrection  of  the  dead,  to  have 
the  vigor  and  power  to  eternally  live 
and  be  all  that  a  man  is  in  this  world 
when  he  is  at  his  best.  That  would 
surely  be  a  boon  to  be  sougrit  for.  If 
there  were  a  fountain  anywhere  in  this 
world  from  which  men  could  drink  and 
have  restored  to  them  the  faculties  of 
youth,  or  of  middle  age,  and  nave  eter- 
nal life,  kings  would  give  up  their 
thrones  for  such  a  boon;  the  rich  would 
cast  their  riches  down  as  nothing,  and 
give  all  in  exchange  for  life  everlasting, 
even  on  a  world  like  this.  Millions  of 
people  would  drag  themselves  across  a 
continent,  on  their  hands  and  knees,  to 
drink  at  such  a  fountain.  All  mankind 
would  seek  it  with  diligence;  it  would 
be  the  one  aim  of  their  lives,  as  they 
increased  in  years,  to  get  to  where  they 
might  drink  at  the  fountain  of  eternal 
life.  "Mormonism"  tells  us  about  the 
fountain  of  eternal  life.  "Mormonism," 
if  lived  here,  will  improve  the  powers 
we  have  on  this  earth,  and  will  give  us 
a  life  that  is  many  fold  better,  a  life 
of  eternal  companionship  with  those 
with  whom  we  have  joyfully  associated 
in  this  world.  Think  of  Joseph  Smith 
the  Prophet  being  resurrected 
from  the  grave,  and  President 
Young,  and  Heber  C.  Kimball, 
and  other  mighty  men  we  have 
become  acquainted  with.  "Where  could 
we  find  greater  or  better  associations 
than  with  these  Saints?  Where  could 
we  obtain  better  companionship  in  this 
life  than  that  which  God  has  given  us 
in  our  association  with  the  Saints? 
God  has  given  to  us  vitality  and  power 
in  our  organized  capacity,  that  is  the 
wonder  and  admiration  of  the  world; 
our  destiny  will  be  envied  by  intelligent 
people. 

In  the  Northwestern  States  mission, 
our  meetinghouses  are  being  filled, 
where,  a  short  time  ago,  all  the  adver- 
tising we  could  do  would  not  bring 
together  "a  baker's  dozen."  In  o  lr 
street  meetings  we  almost  block  up  the 
traffic  sometimes  in  some  of  the  larg- 
er cities.  The  work  of  God  is  growing, 
out  there  where  we  are.  Thousands  of 
people  hear  the  Gospel  now  who  pre- 


viously did  not  pay  any  attention  to  it. 
There  seems  to  be  a  spirit  resting  upon 
the  people  that  causes  anxiety  in  some, 
and  in  others  curiosity,  to  hear  us. 
They  hear  the  Gospel  preached  and  feel 
the  spirit  of  inspiration,  and  many,  like 
sheep  when  they  lick  salt,  want  to  come 
again,  and  the  work  is  growing.  The 
newspaper  men,  formerly,  would  not 
print  or  publish  anything  about  us  that 
we  furnished  them,  but  would  go  to  our 
enemies,  like  those  who  went  to  the 
enemies  of  Jesus  Christ  in  ancient 
times,  and  obtain  garbled  stories  about 
us;  now  they  come  to  us  for  informa- 
tion. They  seem  now  to  prefer  to  get 
information  direct  from  us  about 
"Mormonism"  and  the  Gospel;  and, 
strange  as  it  may  appear,  they  publish 
the  truth  about  us,  and  publish  inter- 
views as  they  are  given,  not  distorting 
and  changing  the  facts  as  they  used 
to  do.  It  is  no  sign  we  are  apostatizing, 
because  they  speak  well  of  us;  we  know 
we  are  not  because  we  enjoy  the  Spirit, 
and  aie  being  fought  hard  by  the  min- 
isters. Whenever  we  have  a  good  de- 
gree of  success  we  always  have  a  river 
of  slander  coming,  like  a  stream  of 
filth,  from  the  mouths  of  sectarian  min- 
isters and  preachers.  Well,  we  don't 
care;  it  does  not  hurt  us. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  feel  like  go- 
ing on  in  the  work  of  God;  my  whole 
heart  is  in  it.  If  we  left  it  where  co  i Id 
we  go?  We  will  stay  with  it,  God  being 
our  helper,  and  be  faithful  to  it,  and 
do  good  to  our  fellow-men,  no  matter 
what  they  do  to  us.  We  will  carry  the 
Gospel  to  the  various  nations  of  the 
earth,  and  build  up  Zion  at  home.  If 
we  do  this,  and  live  righteous  lives,  the 
Lord  will  never  forsake  us.  The  day 
will  come  when  the  angel  of  God  will 
sound  his  trump,  when  our  bodies  will 
be  released  from  decrepitude,  when  old 
age  will  be  thrown  aside  like  a  garment, 
and  eternal  life,  eternal  felicity,  and 
eternal  association  with  the  Lord  and 
with  our  loved  ones  will  be  o  irs.  That 
we  mav  have  the  blessings  of  God  to  be 
and  abide  with  us  forever  is  my  prayer, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


22 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  ASAHEL  H.  WOODRUFF, 
(President  of  Northern  States  mission.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters^  I  sincerely 
trust  that  I  may  enjoy  your  prayers  of 
faith  to  assist  me  during  the  few  mo- 
ments that  I  shall  address  you  upon 
this  occasion. 

I  appreciate,  to  the  fullest  extent,  this 
privilege  accorded  us  of  coming  up  to 
Zion  occasionally,  and  looking  into  the 
faces  of  the  servants  of  God  and  listen- 
ing to  their  voices,  because  they  speak 
unto  us  the  words  of  eternal  life. 

Like  the  brother  who  preceded  me, 
my  soul  was  made  to  rejoice  in  listen- 
ing to  the  words  uttered  by  the  in- 
spired servants  of  God  in  our  meeting 
this  morning,  in  the  Tabernacle.  I  felt 
to  saj-  in  my  heart,  "We  thank  Thee, 
O  God,  for  a  Prophet,  to  guide  us  in 
these  latter  days,"  to  point  out  that 
road  which  will  lead  us  to  the  perfec- 
tion that  our  Father  in  heaven  has  ad- 
monished us,  through  His  Son,  to  strive 
for.  I  realize,  and  have  a  testimony  to 
bear,  that  by  following  the  teachings 
given  to  us,  by  the  mouthpiece  of  God 
on  the  earth,  we  will  be  able  to  reach 
that  condition.  It  is  not  possible  for  us, 
by  following  man's  wisdom,  to  attain 
that  condition.  Man  does  not  know  the 
perfection  of  God;  all  the  things  neces- 
sary for  us  to  do  to  reach  that  condi- 
tion have  not  yet  been  revealed  to  us. 
Jesus  Christ  so  informed  His  Disciples, 
when  He  labored  among  them.  The 
people  of  the  world  have  made 
a  mistake  in  supposing  that  all 
God  ever  intends  to  do  or  say,  for  the 
advancement  and  welfare  of  His  chil- 
dren, has  been  said  and  is  recorded  in 
the  Bible.  But  Jesus  did  not  leave  this 
impression,  as  we  will  find  by  study- 
ing the  Gospel  and  the  sayings  of  the 
Savior.  It  was  not  possible  for  His 
disciples  to  absorb  and  comprehend 
all  things  He  desired  to  teach  them, 
and  so  he  said  to  them  upon  one  occa- 
sion: "I  have  yet  many  things  to  say 
unto  you,  but  ye  cannot  bear  them  now. 
Howbeit  when  he,  the  Spirit  of  truth, 
is  come,  he  will  guide  you  into  all 
truth;  for  he  shall  not  speak  of  him- 


self; but  whatsoever  he  shall  hear,  that 
shall  he  speak:  and  he  will  shew  you 
things  to  come." 

We  are  a  blessed  people  in  that  we 
have  realized  the  promise  made  to  the 
children  of  men,  that  those  who  do  the 
will  of  the  Father  shall  receive  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  is  a 
guide  to  our  feet  and  a  light  to  our 
path.  We  are  a  blesed  people  in  that 
we  have  at  our  head  today  those  who 
are  clothed  upon  with  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,  and  who  speak  not  as  the 
scribes  but  as  those  having  authority. 
I  thank  God,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  I  live  in  a  day  and  time  when 
we  have  a  prophet  to  guide  us. 

Unfortunately,  the  people  of  the  world 
persist  in  misunderstanding  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints;  they  persist  in  misun- 
derstanding "Mormonism"  and  what  it 
intends  to  do  for  the  world  of  mankind. 
In  their  blindness,  they  have  attempted 
in  times  past,  and  are  attempting  at 
the  present  time,  to  bring  all  the  pow- 
ers of  the  adversary  to  overthrow  and 
frustrate  the  work  of  God,  which  He 
has  established  upon  the  earth  in  these 
the  last  days.  I  presume  that,  among 
the  enemies  of  this  work,  there  are 
those  who  fancy  there  is  trembling  of 
knees  and  failing  of  spirit  on  the  part 
of  those  who  have  espoused  this  cause. 
They  vainly  imagine  that  the  experi- 
ences we  have  been  passing  through, and 
the  persecution  which  has  and  is  still 
being  hurled  against  us,  will  result  in 
the  overthrow  of  this  work.  If  we 
were  not  assured  in  our  hearts  that 
we  are  engaged  in  the  work  of  God, 
a  work  which  has  as  its  object  the 
blessing  of  mankind,  not  an  individual 
work;  that  we  are  not  pursuing  our 
own  selfish  desires,  that  our  position 
in  the  world  is  not  our  own  choosing, 
independent  of  a  higher  power — if  we 
did  not  know  for  a  surety  that  we  are 
a  people  chosen  from  the  world  for  a 
special  purpose,  that  God  has  chosen  us, 
as  He  did  people  in  days  that  are  past, 
to  be  special  instruments  in  carrying 
out  His  purposes  upon  earth,  there 
might  be  some  reason  for  the  feeling 
to  which  I  referred.  There  is  no  doubt 
in  the  minds  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 


ELDER  ASAHEL 

as  to  the  final  outcome  of  this  work. 
They  have  received  testimony  upon  tes- 
timony to  the  effect  that  God  is  at  the 
helm;  they  know  that  the  efforts  of 
those  who  understand  us  not  will  be 
in  vain,  as  in  times  past.  It  is  the 
consciousness  of  the  rectitude  of  our 
intentions  that  buoys  us  up  under  all 
these  things,  and  in  the  face  of  all  the 
trials  and  persecutions  that,  as  a  people, 
we  are  now  and  have  been  in  times 
gone  by  called  upon  to  pass  through. 

As  Latter-day  Saints,  we  take  a  pe- 
culiar view  of  life.  We  look  upon  our 
present  existence  as  a  season  of  trial, 
a  probation,  in  which  we  are  gaining 
experience',  and  learning  those  lessons 
that  will  enable  us  to  advance  and  in- 
crease in  knowledge  and  power  in  th<: 
presence  of  God,  and  that  will  entitle 
us  to  be  numbered  among  His  jewels, 
when  He  shall  come  to  gather  them 
unto  Himself.  "We  'regard  our  condi- 
tion here  as  similar  to  being  away  from 
home.  We  have  left  our  Father  and 
Mother  in  heaven,  become  self-exiled 
from  the  associations  of  our  primeval 
existence,  and  have  come  down  here  on 
earth  in  obedience  to  the  will  of  God, 
for  a  wise  purpose  He  has  in  view. 
We  do  not  look  upon  life  as  a  pleasure 
ground,  as  a  holiday,  we  look  upon  it 
as  a  school,  in  which  we  are  engaged 
learning  lessons  that  will  fit  and  quail- 
fy  us  for  the  presence  of  our  Father 
in  heaven,  when  we  go  hence.  We  do 
not  believe  we  have  any  time  to  fritter 
away  and  waste,  or  to  spend  in  the 
pursuit  of  pleasure,  or  following  de- 
lusive fantasms  and  things  that  lead 
from  the  grand  purpose  of  existence 
on  the  earth;  we  believe  that  our  time 
and  talents  and  all  that  we  have  and 
are,  ought  to  be  dedicated  to  the  ser- 
vice of  the  Lord,  and  that  we  should 
try,  to  the  best  of  our  ability,  to  carry 
out  His  purposes  concerning  us, 
here  on  earth.  It  matters  not 
what  people  say  of  us,  if  we  have  a 
conscience  void  of  offense  towards  God 
and  man.  If  we  know  we  are  persecut- 
ed for  righteousness  sake,  it  matters 
not,  we  can  rejoice  that  we  are  thus 
privileged.    I  do  not  believe  it  proves 


H.  WOODRUFF.  23 

that  a  people  are  wicked  or  corrupt  be- 
cause they  are  made  to  suffer.   I  believe 
the  people  of  the  world  will  yet  find  out 
there  is  such  a  thing  as  suffering  for 
righteousness  sake.    I  believe  the  Sa- 
vior spoke    the    truth    when  He  said: 
"Blessed  are  ye,  when  men  shall  revile 
you,  and  persecute  you,  and  shall  say 
all  manner  of  evil  against  you  falsely, 
for  my  sake.    Rejoice,  and  be  exceed- 
ing glad;  for  great  is  your  reward  in 
heaven;    for    so    persecuted    they  the 
prophets  which  were  before  you."  It 
matters  not  that  our  accusers,  those 
who  find  fault  with  our  religious  belief 
and  principles,  are  the  fashionable,  the 
educated  and  cultured  of  the  world; 
Jesus  Christ  was  accused  by  such.  He 
was  brought  to  judgment  by  law,  and 
His  accusers  were  the  high  and  grand 
among  men,  Scribes  and  Pharisees,  who 
offered  long  prayers  in  public  places,  to 
be  heard  of  men,  who  were  careful  in 
the  observance  of  outward  forms  and 
ceremonies,  "righteous"  men!  men  who 
were  in  such  condition  that  they  could 
not  cast  the  first  stone  at  the  woman 
taken  in  adultery.but  who  were  grieved 
in  spirit  because  Jesus  went  about  "ut- 
tering blasphemy"  by  saying  he  was  the 
Son  of  God.   Those  were  the  influences, 
the  kind  of  witnesses,  and  testimony 
that  were  brought  to'  bear  against  Je- 
sus of  Nazareth,  which  brought  about 
His  conviction,  and  death  of  ignominy 
upon  the  cross.    The  lawyers  of  today 
tell  us  that  His  death  was  a  judicial 
murder;   so  we  see,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  it  is  possible  for  the  law  to  be 
wrong.    It  is  sometimes  possible  for  a 
few  people  to  be  in  the  right  and  the 
rest  of  mankind  in  the  wrong.  It  is  pos- 
sible for  people  to  have  to  submit  to  an 
erroneous  human  law. 

The  Saints  of  God  are  required  to 
prove  themselves,  by  retaining  the  tes- 
timony of  Jesus  Christ  in  the  face  of 
persecutions  and  affliction.  We  have 
been  charged  with  being  an  immoral 
people.  We  frequently  meet  this  in  our 
labors  in  the  missionary  field;  but  if 
intelligent  individuals  will  consider  the 
history  of  this  people  they  will  And  a 
refutation  of  the  charge  in  the  lives  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints.     Surely  those 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


were  not  immoral  people  who  put  their 
wives  and  children  into  covered  wagons 
crossed  fifteen  hundred  miles  of  unex- 
plored country,  exposed  to  dangers  and 
hardships  incident  to  the  settling  of  a 
new  and  wild  country,  and  to  savage 
beasts  and  savage  human  beings!  It  is 
not  the  practice  of  immoral  people  to 
pursue  the  arduous  avocations  and  ex- 
hibit the  self-sacrificing  characteristics 
•orur  people  have.  We  know  it  is  not 
the  sin  and  wickedness  of  the  world 
that  our  maligners  are  fighting.  It  is 
the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God  that  is 
being  assailed,  and  that,  too,  in  a  land 
of  liberty,  in  the  land  of  Washington, 
the  land  of  Jefferson,  the  land  of  patri- 
ots, who  fought,  bled  and  died  that  they 
might  hand  down  to  us,  their  descend- 
ants in  many  instances,  the  priceless 
boon  of  religious  liberty.  We  resent 
in  our  feelings  this  condition;  the  in- 
consistency of  the  position  of  many  peo- 
ple of  the  world.  We  claim  the  right 
to  enjoy  religious  liberty,  and  adhere 
to  the  declaration  of  the  patriots  that 
this  land  should,  as  intended,  be  a  land 
where  all  might  worship  God  according 
to  the  dictates  of  their  conscience,  as 
long  as  they  do  not  infringe  upon  the 
rights  or  liberties  of  their  fellowmen. 
I  am  at  the  defiance  of  the  world  to 
prove  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  have 
ever  infringed  upon  the  rights  of  oth- 
ers. They  have  been  persecuted  and 
trodden  upon  for  their  religion's  sake, 
but  they  are  willing  that  other  people 
shall  enjoy  their  convictions  in  this  re- 
gard. We  will  try  to  treat  all  man- 
kind as  brothers  and  sisters.  We  will 
treat  them  as  fellow-citizens  until  they 
prove  themselves  unworthy.  But  we  do 
not  propose  to  shake  hands  with  the 
devil,  so  to  speak,  to  show  how  liberal 
and  generous  we  are.  We  have  nothing 
to  do  with  him  nor  his  ways,  for  he 
fell  and  was  cast  out,  with  other  rebel- 
lious spirits,  and  he  became  the  devil. 
He  and  his  host  of  unembodied  spirits, 
if  they  could  have  had  their  way,  would 
have  compelled  men  to  follow  their 
course,  and  do  as  they  directed,  but 
that  was  not  according  to  the  plan  of 
our  Father  in  heaven.  He  designed 
that  we  should  all  enjoy  religious  lib- 


erty, and  be  free  moral  agents  unto 
ourselves;  and  it  is  because  we  insist 
upon  this  principle,  and  this  rule,  that 
we  have,  in  a  measure,  become  obnox- 
ious in  the  jsight  of  our  fellow-men.  The 
devil  is  not  dead,  by  any  means,  nor 
his  hosts,  but  he  is  "continually  going 
up  and  down  in  the  earth  seeking  whom 
he  may  devour,"  as  the  Scriptures  say, 
putting  it  into  the  hearts  of  one  class 
to  persecute  another  class  of  people, 
and  trying  to  draw  men  from  virtue  to 
vice  and  to  bring  them  down  to  death. 
It  is  necessary  for  us  to  be  true  to  our 
covenants,  and  to  teach  the  world  what 
"Mormonism"  really  is,  that  it  is  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  restored  to  the 
earth  in  the  day  and  time  in  which  we 
live. 

We  have  every  reason,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  to  feel  encouraged  in  the 
work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  The 
word  of  our  Father  in  heaven  has  been 
declared  that  this  Church,  which  is  the 
embryo  of  the  kingdom  that*  will  come 
and  govern  during  the  millennium, 
shall  not  be  overthrown  or  given  to  an- 
other people.  We  do  not  need  to  look 
forward  with  such  uncertainty  as  the 
early  Saints,  who  were  taught  by  the 
Apostles  that  an  apostasy  would  take 
place.  It  is  different  in  our  time,  for 
we  have  the  assurance,  through  the 
prophets  of  God,  that  this  work  shall 
not  be  overthrown,  whether  we,  as  in- 
dividuals, fall  or  not,  the  work  of  God 
will  continue.  Now,  I  pray  that  the 
blessings  of  the  Lord  will  continue 
with  us  during  the  meetings  of 
our  conference  and  that  we  may 
go  away  much  refreshed  and  strength- 
ened. May  God  add  His  blessing;  I 
ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON, 

(President  of  California  mission.) 
For  the  few  moments  I  shall  stand 
before  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
sincerely  desire  your  prayers  of  faith, 
for  one  of  the  hardest  things  in  my  ex- 
perience has  been  to  speak  to  the  Saints 
of  God.  I  am  not  afraid  of  the  people  of 
the  world,  because  we  have  a  message 
to  bear  to  them.  We  can  tell  them  of 
the  revealed  Gospel,  that  God  has  set 


ELDER  JOSEPH   E.  ROBINSON. 


25 


His  hand  to  reclaim  His  chosen  people 
from  the  four  corners  of  the  earth,  that 
His  kingdom  has  been  set  up  in  these 
the  last  days,  never  more  to  be  thrown 
down  or  given  to  another  people.  We 
can  tell  them  of  the  gifts,  of  the  offi- 
cers and  of  the  ordinances  of  the 
Church.  We  can  tell  them  that  God 
has  again  revealed  Himself  to  men  in 
the  flesh,  and  that  He  has  sent  His  an- 
gels with  messages  of  great  joy  for 
the  salvation  of  the  souls  of  men.  This 
is  new  and  strange  to  them,  but  to  the 
Saints  of  God,  who  have  grown  famil- 
iar with  these  teachings,  it  seems  that 
it  is  like  "carrying  coal  to  Newcastle" 
for  me  to  speak  to  you  upon  these 
things.  I  know  that  the  Gospel  is  true. 
I  feel  in  every  fibre  of  my  being  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  know  that  Jo- 
seph Smith  was  His  prophet,  and  was 
the  agent  in  the  hands  of  God  in  es- 
tablishing His  work  in  the  last  days, 
never  more  to  be  thrown  down  or  giv- 
en to  another  people,  although  we  may 
fall  individually,  as  my  brother  has 
said. 

I  rejoice  in  mingling  with  my  broth- 
ers and  sisters.  There  is  nothing  dear- 
er to  the  heart  of  the  missionary,  it 
seems  to  me,  than  to  come  to  Zion  and 
commune  with  the  Saints,  and  hear  the 
testimonies  and  receive  the  instructions 
of  those  who  are  called  to  preside,  those 
men  who  are  the  living  oracles  of  God 
upon  the  earth.  My  heart  was  lifted  up 
in  praise,  and  my  courage  was 
strengthened  in  the  testimonies  borne 
this  morning  by  the  First  Presidency  of 
this  Church,  in  the  message  of  peace 
and  good  will  unto  all  men,  which 
should  characterize  the  efforts  of  every 
Latter-day  Saint,  and  particularly  the 
missionary.  Like  Isaiah  of  old  I  felt  to 
say: 

"How  beautiful  upon  the  mountains 
are  the  feet  of  him  that  bringeth  good 
tidings,  that  publisheth  peace;  that 
bringeth  good  tidings  of  good,  that  pub- 
lisheth salvation;  that  saith  unto  Zion, 
Thy  God  reigneth! 

"Thy  watchmen  shall  lift  up  the 
voice-  with  the  voice  together  shall 
thev  sing;  for  they  shall  see  eye  to  eye, 
when  the  Lord  shall  bring  again  Zion. 

We  live  in  that  day  and  age,  my 
brothers  and  sisters.    The    Lord  has 


gathered  His  children  from  the  east  and 
from  the  west,  from  the  north  and  from 
the  south,  even  every  one  that  is  called 
by  His  name,  and  has  brought  them 
and  established  them,  as  foreseen  of 
old,  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains,  where 
the  house  of  God  has  been  erected, 
that  the  fulfillment  of  the  promise  made 
of  old,  that  the  hearts  of  the  children 
should  be  turned  to  the  fathers  and  the 
hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children, 
might  be  realized;  that  this  Gospel 
should  come  in  its  fulness,  and  that  a 
full  fruition  of  all  the  promises  of  the 
ancient  prophets  might  be  realized 
in  this  generation  and  link  the  dead 
past  with  the  present,  reach  out  into 
the  future  and  make  the  children  of 
God  one  in  the  knowledge  of  the  Gcspel, 
enjoying  its  fruits  and  realizing  its 
promises. 

These  men  who  have  been  called  to 
preside  are  the  oracles  that  keep  us 
in  the  straight  and  narrow  way.  If  it 
were  not  for  them  it  wo  dd  not  be  long 
before  we  would  be  in  the  same  condi- 
tion as  the  people  of  the  world:  we 
would  forget  the  plan  of  salvation;  we 
wo'dd  change  the  ordinances  and  trans- 
gress the  law;  we  would  be  left  in 
darkness;  we  would  be  leaders  of  the 
blind.  When  men  tell  us  that  the 
Scriptures  are  complete  and  contain  all 
that  is  necessary  for  salvation,  I  would 
ask:  Why,  then,  do  men  in  this  d;iy — 
men  who  profess  to  be  scribes  and 
scholars,  who  have  been  tutored  in  the 
seminaries  of  the  land  to  be  teachers  of 
the  word  of  God  to  the  people— why  do 
they  differ  as  to  the  rendit'on  of  those 
Scriptures?  Why  will  some  tell  us  that 
belief  alone  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is 
su;ticient  to  save  us,  and  others  just  as 
well  educated,  just  as  well  housed  as  to 
their  places  of  worship,  just  as  pop  ilar 
among  the  people  and  with  a  following 
iMst  as  large,  wiK  say  it  is  necessary 
that  men  should  be  baptized?  Then, 
again  those  who  agree  upon  the  neces- 
sity of  baptism  differ  as  to  how  it 
should  be  performed,  whether  it  should 
be  by  sprinkling,  by  pouring  or  by  im- 
mersion, and  others  will  say:  We  we'- 
come  you  into  our  faith  and  will  ad- 


26 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


minister  this  ordinance  in  any  form  you 
desire  it.  If  the  canon  of  Scriptures  is 
full,  and  it  is  not  necessary  to  have  oth- 
er teachings  along  this  line,  to  make 
things  plain  nor  to  have  living  oracles, 
why  this  disparity  in  the  teachings  of 
the  scribes  and  scholars,  and  those  who, 
like  the  Jewish  scholars  of  old,  have 
been  instructed  in  colleges  of  learning, 
and  yet  differ  as  to  these  things?  Who 
will  tell  us  definitely  from  the  Scrip  - 
tures,  and  settle  the  controversy,  as  to 
who  can  perform  marriages  and  how  i! 
should  be  done?  For  whatever  the 
Lord  God  doeth,  we  are  told,  is  forever. 
Who  among  the  Christian  ministers  will 
dare  to  perform  a  marriage  for  time 
and  all  eternity?  and  yet  God  gave, 
by  the  hands  of  His  prophets,  wives  un- 
to His  servants,  and  it  was  forever. 
Tell  us  who  should  partake  of  the  sac- 
rament, whether  it  should  be  the  Priest 
alone,  the  close  communicant,  or  all  the 
people.  Tell  us  upon  what  day  we 
should  worship;  should  it  be  upon  the 
Sabbath  of  the  Jew  (Saturday),  or  Sun- 
day, the  day  of  the  Lord,  as  observed 
by  the  Christian  churches?  Tell  us,  if 
the  canon  of  scripture  is  full,  who  has 
the  authority  to  minister  in  the  rites  of 
baptism,  of  which  we  have  been  speak- 
ing, whether  it  should  be  the  Deacon,  or 
the  Priest,  or  the  Elder.  It  is  not  nec- 
essary, regarding  these  ordinances  and 
rituals  of  the  Gospel,  that  God  should 
reveal  the  way,  and  make  it  clear  to  His 
people  how  these  things  should  be 
done?  These  men  in  the  world,  who 
would  teach  us,  have  the  Bible,  and 
many  of  them  have  studied  it  closely, 
and  are  converted  largely  to  its  teach- 
ings, and  yet  there  is  all  this  diversity 
of  opinion  regarding  these  things. 

Recently  I  was  at  the  Stanford  Uni- 
versity, and  upon  the  bulletin  board 
there  I  read  a  proposition  like  this, 
which  was  to  be  debated  upon:  "Re- 
solved that  a  new  religion,  for  all  men 
and  for  all  time,  should  be  established 
for  the  human  race."  Down  in  the  city 
of  Los  Angeles  I  observed  a  new  struc- 
ture going  up,  bearing  the  name  of 
"The  Church  of  the  New  Christian  Re- 


ligion." I  thought  to  myself  that  the 
people  of  the  earth,  those  outside  of 
our  own  Church,  feel  the  necessity  of 
living  oracles,  else  why  debate  this 
question?  else  why  establish  a  church 
called  the  new  Christian  religion?  If 
the  principles  that  were  set  forth  by 
Christ  and  His  Apostles  were  main- 
tained in  their  purity,  and  complete- 
ness, there  would  be  no  need  to  estab- 
lish such  a  church,  nor  to  debate  such  a 
question;  for  the  .  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation.  It  does  not  deal  with  the 
past  alone,  nor  with  the  uncertain  fu- 
ture, but  with  the  living  issues  of  to- 
day. Within  it  is  that  agency  that  will 
uplift  and  save  humanity  in  every  land 
and  clime,  if  they  will  but  heed  its 
teachings.  There  is  nothing  that  the 
heart  of  man  can  conceive  of,  that  is 
desirable  and  good,  that  is  not  included 
in  the  Gospel.  There  has  been  no  sys- 
tem of  ethics  evolved  that  parallels  the 
teachings  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  as 
contained  in  the  fulness  of  the  Gospel. 
Despite  the  scattered  truths  that  were 
revealed  by  Christ,  and  the  great  men 
of  the  earth  since  His  days,  those  who 
have  spent  years  in  writing  ethical 
truths  have  never  been  able  to  eclipse 
the  old  pagan  fathers  of  Greece,  who 
knew  not  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  nor 
His  teachings,  and  they  have  never 
evolved  a  better  scheme  for  the  evolu- 
tion of  mankind,  to  bring  them  to  a 
plane  of  perfection.  It  takes  the  Gos- 
pel of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  to  do 
this  thing;  but  the  people  of  God 
are  in  the  minority,  as  they  have 
ever  been  since  the  earth  was  or- 
ganized, apparently,  for  no  sooner 
did  Adam  and  Eve  commence  to  beget 
sons  and  daughters  than  there  were 
those  who  strove  against  the 
righteous  and  the  righteousness 
of  the  law.  Although  Goa  had  in- 
structed Adam  not  only  in  His  word 
and  in  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation, 
as  we  can  see  from  the  scriptures,  but 
also  in  the  art  of  agriculture,  how  to 
prune  and  dress  the  vine,  how  to  clothe 
their  own  bodies,  and  how  to  live,  yet, 
notwithstanding  this,  Adam's  sons  re- 


ELDER  JOSEPH   E.  ROBINSON. 


27 


belled  against  the  truth,  and  one  of 
them  put  to  death  righteous  Abel.  Even 
in  the  time  of  Noah,  despite  the  fact 
that  there  were  many  great  men,  such 
as  Jared,  Laraech,  Cainan,  Methuselah 
and  Enoch,  who  heard  the  testimony  of 
father  Adam— and  one  of  them,  Enoch, 
had  walked  with  God  for  320  years- 
yet  the  majority  of  the  people  in  that 
day  turned  a  deaf  ear  to  the  word  of 
God.   Noah  labored  with  them  upwards 
of  120  years  to  convert  them  to  the 
testimony  of  their  fathers.    Many  of 
them,  doubtless,  had  a  knowledge  of  the 
Lord,  and  knew  that  He  had  appeared 
and  talked  with  men,  and  yet  how  few 
received  his  testimony.   Well,  after  this 
time,  we  find  that  even  Abraham  had  to 
flee  from  his  father's  household,  and 
from  the  idols  his  father  worshiped,  and 
go  into  a  strangs  land  and  among  a 
strange  people  to  receive  the  Priesthood 
of   the   fathers— which,    by   right,  be- 
longed to  him— that  he,  too,  might  wor- 
ship the  Lord  God,  according  to  the 
dictates  of  his  conscience,  free  and  un- 
trammeled  from  the  superstitions  and 
unjust    laws    of    his   father's  house- 
hold.      It    was    not     the  majority 
even,  that  believed  after  the  miracu- 
lous manifestations   of   the  Lord  in 
Egypt.   Although  He  brought  His  peo- 
ple from  that  land  and  overturned,  one 
by  one,  the  gods  of  the  Egyptians,  what 
a  short  time  it  was  after  Moses  was 
removed  from  them  that  they  forgot 
God,  and  returned  to  the  worship  of  the 
Egyptian  god,  Ammon,  symbolized  by 
the  calf  made  by  Aaron  and  his  broth- 
er, and,  as  a  result,  the  wrath  of  God 
prevented  all,  save  two,  from  going  in 
to  the  promised  land.   Take  the  history 
of  the  prophets  later:    They  were  sub- 
jected to  insults  and  injuries,  and  many 
of  them  were  put  to  death  by  the  peo- 
ple who  said  we  have    no    need  of 
prophets,  we  have  Moses  for  our  pro- 
phet and  have  no  need  of  thee.  This  his- 
tory was  repeated  in  the  days  of  the 
Savior  who  called  the  people  to  account 
because  they  embellished  the  sepulchers 
of  the  prophets,  but  stoned  to  death  the 
living  prophets.    It  was  the  Savior  who 
said  to  the  people  of  His  own  country 
who  were  offended  at  him:  "A  prophet 


is  not  without  honor,  save  in  his  own 
country,  and  in  his  own  house."  He  was 
put  to  death,  and  His  Apostles,  save 
one,  were  all  put  to  death  because  of 
the  testimony  they  bore,,  and  that,  too, 
largely  by  those  who  were  looked  upon 
as  the  wise  of  the  earth,  students  and 
scholars  of  the  law.    In  this  day  and 
generation,  while  history  has  repeated 
itself,  by  us  being  in  the  minority  and 
our  prophet  and  his  brother  and  many 
of  the  Saints  being  put  to  death  for  the 
testimony  of  Jesus,  the  promise  is  made 
unto  us  that  in  this  day  the  Gospel  will 
continue,  as  you  heard  by  the  mouth 
of  the  Prophet  of  God  this  morning,  un- 
til  every  knee  shall  bow  and  every 
tongue  confess  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
when  there  shall  be  none  to  hurt  or 
make  afraid  in  all  God's  holy  moun- 
tain.   I  say,  may  God  hasten  the  day, 
and  may  He  help  us  so  to  live,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  people  abroad 
may  sense  the  fact  that  our  desires  are 
to  uplift  humanity,  that  "Mormonism" 
has  revealed  unto  us  that  plan,  that 
system,  that  scheme    that    will  save 
mankind,  being  the  truth  which  makes 
men  free. 

I  remember  one    of  my  experiences 
upon  a  railroad  train,  in  speaking  to  a 
well  traveled  lady,  a  scholar,  too,  upon 
some  of  the  ethics  of  the  day.   She  had 
been  reading  from  Browning's  "Rabbi 
Ben  Ezra,"  or  "The  Story  of  Life,"  on 
the  opportunities  of  men.    She  dwelt 
largely  upon  its  beauties  and  the  pos- 
sibilities which  it  held  out  to  men  to 
become  Godlike.    Without   telling  her 
who  I  was,  I  elaborated  upon  and  ex- 
plained to  her  the  belief  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  regarding  the  opportunities 
and  talents  that  God  has  endowed  us 
with,  telling  her  that  inherent  within 
us  are  the  attributes  of  Deity,  and  that 
we  only  lack  the  time  and  opportunity 
to  develop  these  things  to  become  like 
the  Father.   As  I  dwelt  upon  this  sub- 
ject at  some  length,  she  became  great- 
ly enthused,  and,  having  learned  my 
name,  she  said:    "O,  Mr.  Robinson,  I 
think  a  man  who  entertains  such  phil- 
osophy as  you  do  must  be  able  to  reach 
out  into  the  infinite,  and  clasp  hands 
with  the  Creator,  and  be  lifted  away 


28 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


from  the  things  of  this  mundane 
sphere;  that  there  is  nothing  mean  or 
low  that  a  man  who  has  such  grand 
ideals  could  stoop  to  do."  She  talked 
in  this  way  and  looked  at  me  rather 
curiously,  and  at  last  I  asked  her  if  she 
would  not  like  to  know  what  school  of 
philosophy  I  belonged  to.  She  said  she 
would,  and  I  told  her  that  I  was 
an  Elder  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  common- 
ly called  "Mormons."  She  exclaimed, 
"O,  horror!  horror!  I  would  not  have 
sat  there  if  I  had  known  that."  After 
a  while,  when  she  had  to  get  off  the 
train,  having  considerable  baggage,  I 
proffered  my  assistance,  and  she  ac- 
cepted it,  but  I  told  her  that  before  I 
would  help  her  off  I  would  like  to  ask 
her  a  question  or  two.  "Why  is  it  that 
when  I  told  you  of  the  philosophy  of 
the  evolution  of  man  along  the  lines  of 
right,  and  all  that  is  good  and  legiti- 
mate, that  you  praised  it  as  the  grand- 
est philosophy  you  ever  heard  of,  and 
said  it  was  soul-satisfying  and  elevat- 
ing, and  that  it  lifted  men  above  the 
mundane  things  of  this  sphere,  and  then 
when  I  told  you  that  this  was  the  phil- 
osophy of  the  'Mormon'  people  you 
turned  away  from  me  in  disgust  and 
derision."  "Well,"  she  said,  "Mr.  Rob- 
inson, it  is  such  a  horrid  name;  why 
can't  you  call  yourselves  something 
else?"  I  rejoice  in  the  name  we  bear, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  Have  you  ever  thought  of 
the  fact  that,  out  of  the  hundreds  of 
churches  and  isms  in  the  world,  ours  is 
the  only  one  that  bears  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  even 
nineteen  hundred  years  after  the  Sa- 
vior's time  upon  the  earth?  Of  all  the 
churches  I  have  heard  of,  and  we  have 
a  great  many  in  California,  the  one  that 
came  the  nearest  to  that  name  was  an 
independent  church  on  Broadway,  in 
Los  Angeles,  called  "the  independent 
Church  of  Christ" — not  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

I  rejoice  in  the  Gospel  and  in  the  op- 
portunities that  it  holds  out  to  us,  and 
in  the  assurance  it  gives  me  that  we 
shall   live,   as   spoken   of  by  Brother 


Pratt  this  afternoon,  and  be  clothed 
upon  with  eternal  youth  and  everlasting 
life,  associate  with  our  loved  ones,  and 
answer  the  full  end  of  our  creation; 
that  all  of  the  grand  ideals,  all  of  the 
hopes  and  ambitions  that  are  God-like 
in  this  life  shall  be  met  with  a  full 
complement,  and  be  realized  to  the  full- 
est extent  in  the  life  to  come,  and  we 
shall  rule  and  reign  forever  with  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Lord. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, and  help  us  to  realize  these  things, 
is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

The  choir  then  sang,  "Count  Tour 
Many*  Blessings." 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 

I  am  ready  to  confess  that  I  am  keyed 
up  to  a  pretty  high  tension,  and  the 
only  thing  I  am  afraid  of  is  that  I  will 
say  just  what  I  think,  which  would  be 
unwise,  no  doubt. 

I  feel  a  good  deal,  or  at  least  I  ima- 
gine I  do,  like  a  man  does  when  held 
up  by  a  burglar  and  he  is  looking  into 
the  muzzle  of  a  six-shooter.  I  would 
quietly  and  willingly  hold  my  hands  up, 
but  during  the  time  would  think  very 
profoundly  of  what  I  would  do  if  given 
my  liberty.  We  are  in  a  similar  posi- 
tion today,  but  all  the  men  in  the  Unit- 
ed States  cannot  prevent  a  man  from 
thinking.  There  are  not  Apostles 
enough  in  the  Church  to  prevent  us 
from  thinking,  and  they  are  not  dis- 
posed to  do  so;  but  some  people  fancy 
because  we  have  the  Presidency  and 
Apostles  of  the  Church  they  will  do  the 
thinking  for  us.  There  are  men  and 
women  so  mentahy  lazy  that  they  hard- 
ly think  for  themselves.  To  think  calls 
for  effort,  which  makes  some  men  tired 
and  wearies  their  souls.  Now,  brethren 
and  sisters,  we  are  surrounded  with, 
such  conditions  that  it  requires  not 
only  thought,  but  the  guidance  of  the 
Holy  Spirit.  Latter-day  Saints,  you 
must  think  for  vourselves.  No  man 
or  woman  can  remain  in  this  Church 
on  borrowed  light.  I  am  a  strong  be- 
liever in  the  following  statement  made 
by  my  father  in  the  House  of  the  Lord 
in  1856 


ELDER  J.   GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 


29 


"We  think  we  are  secure  in  the 
chambers  of  the  everlasting  hills,  but 
the  time  will  come  when  we  will  be  so 
mixed  up  that  it  will  be  difficult  to  tell 
the  face  of  a  Saint  from  the  face  of  an 
enemy  to  the  people  of  God.  Then, 
brethren,  look  out  for  the  great  sieve, 
for  there  will  be  a  great  sifting  time, 
and  many  will  fall;  for  I  say  unto  you 
there  is  a  test,  a  test,  a  TEST  com- 
ing, and  who  will  be  able  to  stand?" 

I  think  we  are  able  to  decide  thpse 
matters  for  ourselves,  through  the 
grace  and  favor  of  the  Lord.  We  ought 
to  know  where  we  stand.  There  are 
a  multitude  of  thoughts  springing  up 
into  the  minds  of  the  people  regarding 
our  present  condition,  and  as  for  my- 
self, I  believe  if  we,  as  Latter-day 
Saints,  those  of  us  who  have  a  testimo- 
ny, will  testify  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ 
and  Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet  of  God, 
it  will  bring  us  all  the  trouble  we  can 
stand.  At  least,  that  has  been  my 
experience.  Our  special  mission  and 
calling  is  to  see  to  it  that  all  peoples 
and  nations  hear  the  glad  tidings  of 
great  joy.  Personally,  I  have  no  feel- 
ings against  the  Gentiles  and  those 
who  are  not  of  our  faith,  and  I  can  say 
it  honestly,  thanking  the  Lord  that  T 
am  broad  minded  enough  to  carry  the 
olive  branch  in  my  hand  and  preach 
the  Gospel  of  peace  to  the  nations  of 
the  earth;  but  when  it  comes  to  apos- 
tates and  our  own  people  lifting  up 
their  voices  against  us,  I  tell  you  there 
is  not  influence  enough  to  restrain  me 
from  rebuking  them.  I  am  not  will- 
ing to  fold  my  hands  and  stand  silently 
by  and  hear  apostates  abuse  our  lead- 
ers and  people.  Why?  Because  they 
know  better.  They  have  been  taught, 
nurtured  and  warmed  at  our  hearths, 
and  they  know  they  falsify  the  truth. 
I  will  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  I 
have  no  use  for  a  traitor,  unless  he  will 
speedily  repent  of  that  great  sin.  I 
do  not  believe  the  Lord  will  give  to  a 
traitor  salvation,  unless  he  repents. 
The  people  of  these  United  States  have 
no  use  for  a  traitor.  The  Masons  have 
no  earthly  use  for  them,  neither  have 
the  Methodists,  Baptists,  or  any  other 
Christian  people,  and  I  join  them  in  the 
cry  against  traitors  and  those  that 
love  and  make  lies. 


I  will  now  read  to  you  a  few  words 
from  the  sayings  of  the  Prophet  of  the 
Lord,  at  a  meeting  held  in  Nauvoo, 
Illinois,  July  2nd,  1839,  with  the  Twelve 
Apostles  and  some  of  the  Seventies  who 
were  about  to  go  on  their  missions  to 
EuroDe. 

"O  ye  Twelve!"  said  Joseph,  "and 
all  Saints!  Profit  by  this  important 
key— that  in  all  your  trials,  troubles, 
temptations,  afflictions,  bonds,  im- 
prisonments, and  death,  see  to  it,  that 
you  do  not  betray  heaven;  that  you 
do  not  betray  Jesus  Christ;  that  you 
do  not  betray  the  brethren;  that  you  do 
not  betray  the  revelations  of  God, 
whether  in  the  Bible,  Book  of  Mormon, 
or  Doctrine  &  Covenants,  or  any  other 
that  ever  was  or  ever  will  be  given  and 
revealed  unto  man  in  this  world,  or 
that  which  is  to  come.  Yea,  in  all 
your  kicking  and  floundering,  see  to  it 
that  ye  do  not  this  thing,  lest  in- 
nocent blood  be  found  on  your  skirts, 
and  you  go  down  to  hell.  All  other 
sins  are  not  to  be  compared  to  sinning 
against  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  proving  a 
traitor  to  thy  brethren." 

I  pray  God  to  bless  you,  my  broth- 
ers and  sisters.  I  wish  there  was  more 
time  for  us  to  speak  to  the  people.  I 
say  to  you,  as  a  servant  of  the  Lord 
and  as  a  watchman  upon  the  towers, 
it  is  high  time  that  we  were  looking 
up.  I  tell  you,  if  there  is  anything 
on  earth  that  we  need  in  the  Church, 
in  this  day  in  which  we  live,  it  is  not 
money  or  temporal  power,  it  is  a  spirit- 
ual uplifting,  and  it  must  take  place  in 
Zion,  or  else  there  will  be  a  falling 
away. 

Now,  brothers  and  sisters,  in  your 
comments  and  conversations  and  in 
expressing  your  views,  see  to  it  that 
you  do  not  express  yourselves  thought- 
lessly before  the  rising  generation; 
don't  pass  your  opinion  too  quickly.and 
by  doing  so  cause  the  young  people  to 
fall  away  from  the  Church,  for  they 
have  not  received  the  testimonies  that 
you  have.  You  have  a  great  mission 
to  perform  at  home.  See  to  it  that 
you  do  not  "lift  up  the  heel  against 
the  Lord's  annointed,"  crying  out  that 
they  have  transgressed,  for  the  Lord 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


says,  "those  who  cry  transgression,  do 
it  because  they  are  the  servants  of  sin, 
and  are  the  children  of  disobedience 
themselves." 

May  the  Lord  bless,  direct  and  pros  - 
per this  people,  I  ask  it  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  H.  CANNON, 
(President  of  St.  George  Temple). 

I  have  rejoiced  in  listening  to  the  tes- 
timonies of  the  brethren  who  have  pre- 
ceded me  this  afternoon,  and  in  the 
words  of  counsel  and  admonition  we  re- 
received  from  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord 
and  His  counselors,  in  the  meeting  of 
the  conference  held  this  morning.  I 
desire  that,  during  the  few  moments  I 
shall  occupy,  my  utterances  may  be 
under  the  guidance  of  the  Spirit  of  God, 
because  this  is  His  work  with  which  wa 
have  become  identified. 

I  was  very  pleased  with  the  remarks 
of  President  Kimball,  in  regard  to  being 
true  to  the  Gospel,  and  to  the  obliga- 
tions we  have  assumed  in  connection 
with  this  great  latter-day  work.  I  re- 
member meeting  a  man  wno  had  been 
diligent  during  his  early  experience  in 
the  Church,  who  had  been  valiant  in 
testimony  regarding  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel  that  God  had  revealed  for 
the  redemption  of  His  people.  This  man 
left  the  Church,  after  having  been 
faithful  to  the  Gospel  for  many  years. 
I  asked  him  how  it  was  that  he  had 
lost  the  testimony.  He  said  he  could 
not  say,  that  he  was  just  as  sincere  af- 
ter he  denied  the  faith  as  he  was  at  the 
time  he  was  preaching  the  Gospel.  I 
met  him  again,  a  few  years  afterwards, 
when  he  was  reunited  with  the  Curch, 
and  I  asked  him  how  he  accounted  for 
these  changes.  He  told  me  that  the 
cause  of  his  apostasy  was  made  known 
by  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  to  him, 
and  that  it  was  because  he  had  grieved 
the  Spirit  of  tne  Lord  by  talking  against 
his  brethren,  men  who  were  appointed 
to  preside  over  him.  He  told  me  that 
President  Young  had  inaugurated  co- 
operation  in  temporal  affairs,  and  that! 
it  came  in  contact  with  his  own  pre- 
conceived ideas;  that  he  murmured 
against  President  Young,  and  also 
against  others  of  the  servants  of  God, 


and  the  Spirit  of  God  became  grieved 
and  by  degrees  withdrew  from  him, 
and  he  was  left  to  himself.  As  he  fell 
into  darkness  he  neglected  his  duties, 
neglected  to  say  his  prayers  and  to  live 
according  to  the  requirements  of  the 
Gospel,  until  his  mind  became  blank, 
the  light  that  had  shone  within  him  be- 
fore ceased,  and  he  was  an  apostate. 
Subsequently  the  Lord  touched  his  un- 
derstanding, and  caused  him  to  realize 
his  position;  he  then  began  to  see  if  ha 
could  not  regain  the  light  by  humbling 
himself  before  the  Lord  and  manifest- 
ing exceeding  humility.  By  degrees, 
the  Spirit  returned  to  him,  and  the 
light  in  its  glory,  and  the  beauties  of 
the  Gospel,  dawned  upon  his  mind,  and 
he  again  became  faithful  and  diligent, 
and  continued  so  until  the  time  of  hi9 
death.  Now,  the  light  of  the  sun,  when 
it  illuminates  the  world,  does  not  come 
suddenly,  for  we,  with  our  natural 
eyes,  would  not  be  able  to  endure  it.  If 
you  will  arise  early  in  the  morning  you 
will,  probably,  see  the  morning  star 
preceding  the  daylight,  then  a  glimmer 
of  sunrise  in  the  east,  and,  as  time  ad- 
vances, the  earth  becomes  bathed  in 
an  effulgence  of  light,  and,  by  its  coraJ 
ing  gradually,  we  are  able  to  endure  it> 
Just  so  with  the  Gospel.  The  princi-' 
pies  God  has  revealed  for  the  redemp- 
tion of  His  people  do  not  manifest 
themselves  to  the  people  suddenly,  but 
the  man  who  conforms  to  the  first  prin- 
ciples, having  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus, 
repenting  of  his  sins,  going  down  into 
the  water  and  being  baptized  for  the 
remission  of  his  sins,  receives  the  Holy 
Ghost,  which  will  lead  him  into  al> 
truth.  As  he  obeys  the  laws  of  the 
Gospel,  and  conforms  to  its  sacred  re-* 
quirements,  his  understanding  of  the 
Gospel  broadens;  but  when  he  ceases  to 
do  right  the  light  of  truth  begins  to 
wane  within  him.  As  long  as  he  proves 
faithful  and  diligent  in  the  observance 
of  the  laws  of  God  has  revealed,  that 
light  continues  to  grow  within  him,  and 
the  Gospel  satisfies  his  heart's  desir* 
in  the  shape  of  religion;  but 
when  he  becomes  derelict  in  his 
duties,  and  begins  to  neglect  his 
prayers,     and     speak     evil     of  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN. 


31 


servants  of  God,  criticising  those  who 
bear  the  Holy  Priesthood  who  preside 
over  him,  then  the  light  begins  to  wane 
again,  and  the  Spirit  of  God  withdraws 
until  he  is  left  entirely  to  himself. 

This  work,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
is  the  work  of  God.  He  has  revealed 
it  to  bring  mankind  back  into  His  pres-> 
ence.  By  strict  obedience  to  its  require- 
ments we  will  have  joy  in  our  life  and 
labors;  when  we  neglect  to  conform  t* 
its  teachings,  the  reverse  will  be  the  re- 
sult. Mav  God  enable  us  to  compre- 
hend properly  the  principles  He  has 
revealed,  and  to  live  by  every  word  that 
proceedeth  from  His  mouth,  is  my  de- 
sire, through  Jesus  Christ,  our  Re- 
deemer. Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN. 

I  have  very  greatly  rejoiced  my 
brethern  and  sisters,  in  listening  to 
the  good  words  that  have  been  spoken 
to  us  by  our  brethern  this  afternoon; 
I  also  rejoiced  in  listening  to  the  tes- 
timonies and  counsel  that  were  impart- 
ed to  us  by  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church  in  the  opening  session  of  our 
conference.  I  have  no  doubt  but  what 
there  was  a  feeling  of  joy  and  satis- 
faction in  the  hearts  of  all  the  Saints 
who  were  assembled  together,  in  listen- 
ing to  the  words  that  were  spoken  by 
President  Smith  and  by  his  associates 
in  the  Presidency.  We  ought  to  be  able, 
through  the  training  we  have  received 
in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  to  know 
the  voice  of  the  good  shepherd  and  to 
follow  him,  and  not  be  carried  away  by 
strange  voices  or  by  strange  doctrines, 
by  the  ideas  that  are  presented  to  us, 
from  time  to  time,  by  those  who  are 
not  of  us.  I  think  we  must  all  have 
felt  that  we  were  listening  to  the  voice 
of  the  good  shepherd,  that  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Almighty  actuated  the 
brethren  who  stand  at  the  head  of  the 
Church  in  the  counsels  that  they  im- 
parted to  us  in  our  morning's  ses- 
sion of  the  conference.  We  have  with- 
in our  own  souls  the  understanding 
and  knowledge  that  we  are  engaged 
in  the  work  of  our  Father,  a  work  that 
has  been  revealed  from  the  heavens 
for  the  salvation  of  the  human  race,  a 
work  that  has  been  spoken  of  by  the 
mouths  of  all  the  holy  prophets  since 


the  beginning  of  time,  a  work  that  was 
engaged  in  by  the  Redeemer  of  men 
when  He  dwelt  for  a  little  season  in 
the  flesh. 

Every  man  who  bears  a  testimony, 
understandingly  and  truthfully,  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  knows  that  the 
knowledge  he  is  in  possession  of  has 
come  to  him  by  the  inspiration  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  that  it  has  been  given  by 
the  revelations  of  the  Father,  and  that 
he  is  not  dependent  upon  man  for  a 
continuation  of  that  knowledge.  We 
depend,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  upon 
the  continuation  of  a  knowledge  of  the 
Gospel,  that  we  are  in  possession  of, 
through  keeping  the  commandments  of 
God.  Through  keeping  these  com- 
mandments we  can  also  depend  upon 
the  fulfilment  of  the  promises  made 
pertaining  to  the  future.  If  we  are  to 
have  a  realization  of  the  glorious  things 
spoken  of  today  it  will  be  through  at- 
tending to  the  duties  and  responsibili- 
ties that  rest  upon  us  as  members  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  We  must  live  in  the  pres- 
ent and  attend  to  our  duties  as  they 
are  made  known  to  us,  if  we  are  to 
have  the  approval  of  our  Father  in 
Heaven,  and  if  we  desire  to  make  our 
calling  and  election  sure.  God  has 
pointed  out  the  way  whereby  we  can 
make  our  calling  and  election  sure. 

Those  who  are  not  of  us  seem  to 
think,  sometimes,  that  it  is  a  dreadful 
doctrine  to  teach  that  we  should  honor 
the  Priesthood,  as  spoken  of  by  some 
of  the  brethren  today,  that  we  should 
be  careful  not  to  lift  up  our  voices  in 
criticism  of  the  authority  of  God,  and 
that  there  is  danger  in  pursuing  a 
course  of  this  character.  It  seems  to 
me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we 
ought  easily  to  understand  that,  if 
God  Almighty  has  spoken  from  the 
heavens,  and  has  clothed  men  with  His 
authority,  and  commanded  them  to 
magnify  that  authority  in  the  midst 
of  the  peoples  of  the  earth,  He  will  ex- 
pect the  peoples  of  the  earth  to  recog- 
nize and  honor  that  authority,  and 
especially  require  this  of  His  Saints, 
who  have  a  knowledge  of  the  truth. 
That  is  a  part  of  the  responsibility 
that  has  come  to  us  through  the  Gos- 
pel.   While  we  do  not  believe  we  should 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


worship  men,  or  that  there  is  any- 
thing in  the  Gospel  that  requires  any 
man  or  woman  to  give  undue  or  improp- 
er reverence1  to  any  man,  we  do  be- 
lieve the  Gospel  requires  that  every 
soul  shall  recognize  the  authority  God 
has  established,  and  that  they  shall 
follow  that  authority.  That  has  al- 
ways been  the  case  in  every  age  of  the 
world.  Whenever  God  has  had  His 
authority  upon  the  earth  he  has  de- 
manded this  of  the  people;  and  He  has 
abundantly  blessed  those  who  have 
hearkened  to  His  counsel,  and  who 
have  been  true  to  His  representatives. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  take 
warning  from  the  words  that  have 
been  spoken.  We  should  remember 
that  the  mission  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  and  al- 
ways has  been.  "Peace  on  earth  and 
good  will  to  man,"  as  stated  by  one 
of  the  First  Presidency  this  morning. 
It  is  the  mission  of  this  great  people- 
not  the  few  men  who  are  abroad  in 
the  world  preaching  the  Gospel,  nor 
just  the  few  men  who  compose  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  nor  any  other 
organization  of  the  Priesthood  alone — 
it  is  the  mission  of  the  entire  people 
that  their  lives,  their  conversations  and 
example  shall  declare  to  all  the  world 
we  love  peace.  We  have  received  the 
message  of  truth,  and  it  is  our  mis- 
sion to  bear  record  to  the  divine  will 
of  our  Father  in  heaven  and  preach 
the  Gospel,  that  men  may  be  saved. 
Our  Father  revealed  in  the  very  begin- 
ning of  this  work,  as  men  became 
anxious  to  know  the  will  of  God  con- 
cerning themselves,  that  the  most  im- 
portant thing  men  could  do  was  to  cry 
repentance  to  the  people,  to  teach  the 
doctrines  of  the  Gospel,  and  that  if 
they  labored  through  their  entire  lives 
and  saved  but  one  soul,  great  should 
be  their  reward  and  their  joy  in  the 
kingdom  of  our  Father.  We  need  to 
save  souls  at  home;  we  need  to  be  do- 
ing things,  to  be  laboring  diligently, 
that  our  skirts  may  be  clear,  and  that 
we  may  be  justified.  It  is  written  in 
the  revelations  that  we  are  not  to  wait 
to  be  commanded  in  all  things.  Some- 
times we  appear  to  think  that  the 
Bishop,  or  some  other  authority,  should 


designate  labor  for  us,  and  that  we  are 
not  to  do  anything  unless  we  are  in- 
structed or  appointed  to  do  it.  God 
has  said:  It  is  given  to  man,  by  his 
own  agency,  to  seek  to  bring  to  pass 
much  righeousness,  of  his  own  voli- 
tion and  of  his  own  will,  without  com- 
mandment from  any  source;  and  he 
that  waiteth  to  be  commanded  in  all 
things  is  a  slothful  and  an  unwise 
steward. 

Now,  we  need  to  be  doing  the  things 
that  have  been  suggested  to  us  today, 
and  the  things  that  will  be  suggested 
in  the  counsels  that  may  be  imparted 
to  us  in  other  meetings.  By  doing  so 
we  shall  be  firmly  established  in  the 
everlasting  Gospel,  and  no  experiences 
can  ever  come  to  us  then  that  will 
wrest  us  from  the  foundation  upon 
which  we  stand,  if  we  stand  upon  the 
foundation  of  obedience  to  the  things  of 
God  we  will  always  see  the  light  and 
rejoice  therein.  There  will  be  no  fear 
in  our  hearts;  for  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
will  be  with  us,  and  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  casteth  out  all  fear.  God 
bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and 
may  power  be  given  unto  us  to  be 
true  and  faithful  to  our  covenants,  and 
to  each  other,  and  to  our  Father  in 
heaven,  is  my  prayer,  through  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "Love  Everlasting," 
after  which  the  benediction  was  pro- 
nounced by  Elder  Angus  M.  Cannon. 

OPEN  AIR  MEETING 

An  open  air  meeting  was  held  on  the 
Temple  block  Sunday  afternoon,  April 
3,  at  2  o'clock.  Elder  Geo.  A.  Smith, 
presiding.  Singing,  "High  on  the 
Mountain  Top."  Prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Rulon  S.  Wells.  Singing,  "Guide 
us  O  Thou  Great  Jehovah." 

President  Wm.  T.  Jack  of  the  Cassia 
stake,  was  the  first  speaker.  He  re- 
ferred to  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel 
through  the  boy  Prophet,  Joseph  Smith, 
and  showed  the  necessity  for  authority 
to  baptize  and  administer  in  the  laws 
and  ordinances  thereof,  such  authority 
as  was  held  by  the  Apostles  and  Saints 
of  old  and  which  was  taken  from  the 
earth  when  they  passed  away.  It  was 
necessary  to  be  restored  to  prepare  the 
hearts  of  the  people  for  the  coming  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


33 


the  Master.  The  speaker  admonished 
the  Saints  to  continue  to  live  lives  of 
purity  that  they  might  in  very  deed  be 
the  people  of  God  and  a  light  unto  the 
nations. 

Elder  Benj.  Goddard  spoke  upon  the 
subject  of  baptism  for  the  dead.  He 
showed  how  unjust  it  would  be  to  con- 
demn and  cast  into  perdition  the  mil- 
lions who  had  not  had  an  opportunity 
of  hearing  or  believing  the  sacred  Gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ.  Said  that  beyond 
the  grave  the  Gospel  is  being  preached 
now,  even  as  Christ  himself  went  to  the 
spirits  in  prison  for  this  purpose.  Bap- 
tism, he  said,  is  an  indispensable  prin- 
ciple. How  strange  it  would  be  for 
Christ  to  preach  the  necessity  of  bap- 
tism without  providing  a  way  in  which 
His  instructions  and  commands  might 
be  obeyed.  Since  baptism  is  an  earthly 
ordinance  it  must  be  performed  on 
earth,  and  as  Christ  ha,s  done  a  vicar- 
ious work  for  us,  so  may  we  work  vi- 
cariously for  others  and  thus  become 
saviors  on  Mt.  Zion.  The  speaker 
quoted  scripture  to  prove  his  remarks, 
dwelling  emphatically  on  the  saying 
"Else  what  shall  they  do  which  are 
baptized  for  the  dead?  If  the  dead  rise 
not  at  all  why  then  are  ye  baptized  for 
the  dead?" 

Elder  Arnold  H.  Schulthess  spoke  of 
the  wonderful  and  rapid  growth  of  the 
Church,  and  how  the  Spirit  of  God  and 
the  spirit  of  sacrifice  took  hold  of  the 
people's  hearts  in  foreign  lands  and  led 
them  to  the  land  of  Zion  to  establish  an 
ensign  of  righteousness  on  the  moun- 
tain tops.  He  closed  by  bearing  a 
strong  testimony  to  the  truthfulness  of 
the  Gospel. 

President  James  G.  Duffin  of  the 
Southwestern  States  mission  read  from 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  a  revelation 
concerning  the  Gospel,  as  revealed  to 
Joseph  Smith,  being  preached  to  all 
the  world.  He  showed  the  great  mis- 
sionary work  being  done  by  the  Saints 
and  the  sacrifice  the  "Mormon"  people 
are  making  to  proclaim  to  the  world 
the  blessed  principles  of  life  and  lib- 
erty for  which  the  Master  was  cruci- 
fied, and  for  which  Saints  in  former 
and  latter  days  have  been  willing  to 
live  and  die.    Over  52  nations  of  the 


earth  have  already  been  visited  by  the 
Elders,  and  the  work  will  continue*  un- 
til all  nations  shall  hear  it,  and  until 
righteousness  shall  cover  the  earth  as 
the  waters  cover  the  deep. 

Elder  Rulon  S.  Wells  continued  the 
theme  of  the  rapid  growth  of  the 
Church,  citing  instances  where  God's 
power  has  been  manifest  in  the 
Church's  development.  He  referred  to 
the  natural  and  strange  desire  among 
the  Saints  abroad  to  come  to  Zion  when 
they  receive  the  Spirit,  notwithstanding 
the  opposition  that  might  be  "c-ought 
to  prevent  them.  He  showed  that  the 
Spirit  of  God  bears  testimony  to  them 
that  they  are  the  people  of  God,  as  it 
did  to  the  Apostle  Paul,  Peter  and  the 
other  Apostles  and  Saints.  He  said  the 
gates  of  hell  had  not  prevailed  against 
the  Gospel  when  the  Master  was  nailed 
upon  the  cross,  but  that  was  the  great- 
est victory  the  Church  had  ever  known. 
The  work  of  redemption  defied  the 
gates  of  hell  and  lifted  men  to  their  Re- 
deemer. 

President  Ben  E.  Rich  of  the  Southern 
States  mission  read  the  hymn,  "Oh  My 
Father,"  and  commented  upon  the 
same.  He  proved  by  Scripture  that  our 
spirits  had  a  pre-existence.  Christ  was 
the  Lamb  slain  before  the  foundation  of 
the  world,  to  be  wounded  for  our  trans- 
gressions and  bruised  for  our  iniquities, 
that  by  His  stripes  we  may  be  healed. 
Jeremiah  was  chosen  and  ordained  a 
Prophet  of  God.  Job  was  one  of  the 
sons  of  Gcd  who  shouted  when  the 
morning  stars  sang  together  and  the 
sons  of  God  shouted  for  joy.  We 
were  sent  here  as  to  a  school  to  prepare 
us  for  the  higher  grade  we  may  enter  in 
the  land  of  eternal  progression. 

There  is  a  secret  something  that  whis- 
pers to  us  we  are  but  strangers  here, 
that  dust  we  are  and  to  dust  we  shall 
return;  but  "the  spirit  shall  go  back 
to  God  who  gave  it."  There  is  a  force' 
in  the  words  of  the  faithful  Elders 
abroad  which  strikes  conviction  to  the 
hearts  of  many. 

Elder  George  A.  Smith  closed  by 
bearing  a  faithful  testimony.  Singing, 
"Oh  ye  mountains  high"  by  the  con- 
gregation and  benediction  by  Elder 
B.  Clegg. 


SECOND  DAY. 


Monday,  April  4,  10  a.  m. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  begins: 

"Praise   to   the   man    who  communed 
with  Jehovah, 
Jesus   anointed   that     Prophet  and 
Seer." 

Opening  prayer  by  Bishop  William 
B.  Preston. 

Singing  by  the  choir: 

"Ye  simple  souls  who  stray 
Far  from  the  path  of  peace, 

That  lonely,  unfrequented  way 
To  life  and  happiness." 

ELDER  A.   O.  WOODRUFF. 

The  fHithrul  are  valiant  in  the  testimony  of  Jesus — 
The  doubtfui  are  fearful  In  times  of  danger — 
Power  to  resist  temptation— Tre  kingdom  of 
God  can  be  seen  on  y  by  the  obedient. 

My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  I  hope 
that  through  the  blessings  of  the  Lord 
I  may  be  able  to  make  you  hear,  and 
be  guided  by  the  Spirit  of  our  Heaven- 
ly Father  in  my  utterances.  I  desire 
to  say  only  those  things  that  the  Lord 
would  have  me  to  say.  I  feel  very 
thankful  to  the  Lord  for  a  testimony 
of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  for  a 
knowledge  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  divinely 
commissioned  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
to  establish  this  work,  which  has  at- 
tracted the  attention  and  the  interest, 
either  for  or  against  it,  of  so  many 
people.  If  it  were  not 'that  God  is  at 
the  helm,  and  directing  this  work,  it 
had  as  well  been  abandoned  many 
years  ago;  but  the  great  assurance 
which  has  possessed  this  people  in 
•every  hour  of  trouble,  has  been  that 
God  would  deliver  them  and  lead  them 
out  of  every  difficulty,  stronger  in  faith 
and  in  numbers  than  before.  That  has 
been  the  history  of  our  people.  Had  it 
not  been  for  this  testimony,  that  the 
Lord  Himself  is  the  author  of  this  work, 
the  conditions  which  have  arisen  in 
the  past  would  have  caused  the  people's 


hope  to  sink  within  them,  and  the 
outlook  would  have  been  very  forbid- 
ding. 

From  time  to  time  we  may  expect 
trouble  and  difficulty,  because  the  Lord 
has  decreed  that  He  would  have  a 
tried  people;  that  he  would  purify  the 
gold  in  the  fire,  but  that  none  of  the 
gold  should  be  lost.  The  dross  would 
be  consumed,  and  the  gold  should  still 
remain.  Such  has  been  the  past  ex- 
perience of  this  latter-day  work,  which 
has  grown  so  marvelously  under  the 
persecution  and  the  trouble  which  has 
beset  it,  ever  since  it  was  started  by 
the  Lord  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  The  Latter-day  Saints,  as  a 
rule,  are  not  easily  shaken  by  condi- 
tions, however  trying  they  may  be. 
The  experience  of  the  past  has  shown 
us  that  the  few  men  who  have  fallen 
by  the  wayside,  because  they  were 
f?lled  with  fear  when  trouble  arose, 
have  signally  failed  in  their  efforts  to 
lead  others  from  the  Church.  The  ma- 
jority of  the  people  of  God  to~day  are 
not  easily  moved  nor  frightened; 
their  hearts  do  not  sink  within  them 
when  clouds  appear  upon  our  horizon. 
I  believe  it  is  pleasing  in  the  sight  of 
the  Lord  when  His  people  have  suffi- 
cient faith  not  to  be  easily  moved,  so 
that  when  any  difficulties  arise,  or 
whenever  they  are  beset  by  the  enemies 
of  righteousness,  thev  do  not  feel  that 
the  whole  work  is  going  to  pieces,  and 
that  the  Church  can  no  longer  make 
the  remarkable  progress  it  has  made 
up  to  the  present  time.  Our  past  history 
should  be  a  strength  unto  us,  and  a 
hope  for  the  future.  It  should  stimulate 
our  faith  in  God.  Indeed,  in  the  minds 
of  those  who  have  a  testimony  of  the 
truth,  there  is  no  doubt  whatever  in  re- 
gard to  the  outcome  of  this  work.  They 
know  it  will  triumph  over  all  its  adver- 
saries, no  matter  how  powerful  they 
may  be.  Whatever  agencies  are  organ- 
ized to  oppose  the  work,  they  know 


ELDER  A.  O.  WOODRUFF. 


35 


that      God      is      all-powerful,  and 
that  He  rules  the  destinies  of  men  and 
nations,  and  He  will  bring  His  work  to 
victory  in  the  end.    So  the  Latter-day 
Saints  who  are  doing-  their  duty  are 
not  easily  moved.    On  the  other  hand, 
whenever  anything  has  arisen  in  the 
shape  of  opposition,  and  whenever  the 
clouds  have  been  dark  and  threaten- 
ing, those  who  were  weaK,  because  they 
were  not  doing  their  duty  and  keeping 
the  commandments  Of  the  Lord,  have 
always  been  the  ones  who  thought  the 
work  was  going  to  pieces,  and  that  "the 
bottom  was  falling  out  of  Mormonism." 
Whenever  members  of  the  Church  have 
such  feelings  within  them  it  is  an  evi- 
dence of  their  own  weakness,  and  of  the 
fact  that  they  are  not  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  God,  because  of  which 
they  have  not  the  assurance  regarding 
the  final  victory  of  this  work  that  a 
faithful    man     possesses.    We  expect 
there  will  be  opposition,  but  at  the  same 
time  we  confidently  expect  that  God,  in 
the  future  as  in  the  past,  will  deliver 
us  if  we  will  only  do  our    duty.  We 
never  intend  to  so  shape  our  faith  and 
belief  that  it  will  please  the  adversary, 
or  the  world.    The  present  chaotic  con- 
dition of  Christendom,  with  its  jarring, 
differing  sects,  presents  a  practical  il- 
lustration  of  what  the  Gospel  would 
be  if  it  were  cut  and  pruned  to  suit  the 
wishes  of  the  enemy  of  all  righteous- 
ness.    This   Gospel     tree    which  was 
planted   in   the   meridian  of   time  by 
Jesus  Himself  and  which  was  nurtured 
by  Him  and  His  followers,  was  shorn 
of  many  of  its  limbs  and  branches  to 
suit    the    wishes     of     the  ungodly, 
until      its      symmetry        was  lost. 
The         Priesthood         was  taken 
to  God,  while  those  who  were  devout 
in  maintaining    the     pure  principles 
which  God  had  revealed  were  put  to 
death  in  various  ways,   because  they 
would  not  recant,  and  deny  the  testi- 
mony which  God  the  Eternal  Father 
had    given   to   them.      These  faithful 
souls   contended  that   man  must  fear 
God  rather  than   man,   that  he  must 
meet  his  obligations  to  God,  and  in  so 
doing  he  could  not  help  but  be  a  good 
citizen  of  the  state.     Those  who  keep 
the  commandments  of  God  are  certain 


to  become  a  benefit  to  any  community 
in  which  they  live.     Most  people  shiver 
at  the  thought  of  trouble,  especially  if 
it  come  to  them  individually.  They 
may  feel  all  right  if  it  comes  to  some 
one   else,    but   when   it    strikes  home 
those  who  are  inclined  to  be  weak  and 
doubtful  in  regard   to   this   work  be- 
come very  fearful.     For  their  part  they 
do  not  want  any  persecution.     All  they 
desire   is   a   smooth  road,   a  pathway 
strewn  with  roses,  where  there  are  no 
obstacles  to  meet.     But  we  claim  that 
this  work  is  divine,  and  if  we  expect 
to   receive   the      reward   of  obedience 
thereto  we  may  expect  to  labor  hard 
for  it.      If  we  gain  the  great  reward, 
we  shall  not  be  able  to  shun  the  fight, 
but   will  have   to   be   valiant   for  the 
testimony   of   Jesus,   upholding  right- 
eousness, doing  our  duty  to  God  and  to 
our  fellow  men  in  every  respect.  When 
I  see  men,  as  I  do  sometimes,  who  are 
filled   with    fear   every   time   there  is 
prospect  of  trouble,  I  always  think  of 
the  Apostles  in  the  meridian  of  time. 
I  think  of  how  they,  rather  than  deny 
the  testimony   of  Jesus  Christ,  were 
willing  to  submit  to  the  most  ignomin- 
ious death  for  the  testimony  which  God 
had  given  them. 

The  pride  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
in  regard  to  this  work  is  that  it  is 
true,  revealed  from  God  to  man,  and 
that,  unlike  the  various  man-made  or- 
ganizations there  has  been  no  necessi- 
ty to  call  a  convention  for  the  revision 
of  its  creed,  to  suit  the  will  and  wishe« 
of -mankind.  This  fact  has  been  one 
of  the  main  features  which  has  stim- 
ulated the  Saints  through  all  the  trou- 
bles and  trials  which  have  come  to 
them,  and  one  of  the  things  they  have 
cherished  most.  As  Latter-day  Saints 
we  have  great  reason  to  rejoice  in 
the  goodness  of  the  Lord.  He 
has  never  forsaken  us;  and 
while  I  do  not  think  that 
we  ought  to  tempt  Providence, 
or  do  unwise  things  that  would  bring 
trouble  upon  us,  I  have  no  fear  in  re- 
gard to  the  outcome  of  this  work,  if 
every  man  in  the  Church  does  his  duty 
to  God  and  to  his  fellow  man.  The  fear 
is,  if  we  have  any  in  regard  t«  our 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


selves  individually,  can  we  keep  the 
faith?  Can  we  trust  in  God  in  times  of 
trouble  and  adversity  as  well  as  in 
times  of  peace?  For  my  part,  I  rejoice 
that  the  Lord  is  still  at  the  helm.  I 
ofttimes  think  of  the  experience  of  the 
Savior,  after  He  had  fasted  forty  days 
and  forty  nights,  and  was  then  tempted 
of  the  devil.  He  was  shown  the  king- 
doms of  this  world,  and  was  promised 
dominion  over  all  of  them  if  He  would 
but  fall  down  and  worship  Satan.  What 
was  the  answer  of  Jesus?  "Get  thee 
hence,  Satan:  for  it  is  written,  Thou 
shalt  worship  the  Lord  thy  God,  and 
Him  only  shalt  thou  serve."  Then  He 
was  taken  upon  a  pinnacle  of  the  tem- 
ple and  told  by  Satan  to  cast  himself 
down;  "for  it  is  written,  He  shall  give 
His  angels  charge  concerning  Thee:  and 
in  their  hands  they  shall  bear  Thee  up, 
lest  at  any  time  thou  dash  thy  foot 
against  a  stone."  The  Savior  answered 
him,  "It  is  written  again,  thou  shalt 
not  tempt  the  Lord  thy  God."  Now,  I 
feel  that,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  we  have 
no  right  to,  figuratively,  cast  ourselves 
from  the  pinnacle  of  the  temple.  God 
expects  us  to  use  the  wisdom 
He  has  given  us  and  not  to 
tempt  Him.  Then  if  trouble 
comes  upon  us,  according  to  the 
will  of  God,  we  will  be  strong  to  meet 
it.  It  is  not  always  those  who  ap- 
pear anxious  to  get  into  a  fight  who  are 
the  bravest  when  the  battle  is  on.  More 
frequently  those  who  are  the  most  re- 
luctant to  enter  the  combat  are  the  ones 
who  show  the  best  qualities  under  fire. 
As  a  people  we  have  never  had  any  de- 
sire for  trouble.  We  only  desire  to  serve 
God  and  keep  His  commandments,  and 
then  to  leave  the  result  with  Him.  By 
doing  this  we  will  be  justified  in  the 
eyes  of  God  as  well  as  in  the  eyes  of 
all  good  men.  We  never  expect  the 
wicked  or  the  ungodly  to  be  pleased 
with  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation 
which  the  Lord  has  revealed,  but  we  do 
hope  that  the  honest  in  heart  will  be 
able  to  see  the  kingdom  of  God  as  it 
has    been  established. 

A  friend  of  mine,  a  few  days 
ago,  in  speaking  of  that  pas- 
sage   which    is  so  familiar    to    us  all 


relating  the  conversation  of  Christ 
with  Nicodemus,  brought  to  my  mind 
a  new  phase  of  that  part  of 
it  where  the  Savior  says,  "Except  a 
man  be  born  again  he  cannot  see  the 
kingdom  of  God."  In  other  words,  we 
cannot  expect  a  man  to  see  the  kingdom 
of  God  unless  he  is  born  again.  I  had 
never  thought  of  it  particularly  in  this 
light  before,  but  there  appears  to  be 
some  force  in  it.  Notwithstanding  the 
kingdom  of  God  was  established  by  the 
Redeemer  Himself,  His  enemies  could 
not  see  it  because  they  had  not  been 
"born'  again."  It  was  right  among 
them,  yet  they  were  not  able  to  per- 
ceive it.  The  same  may  be  said  in  re- 
gard to  the  work  which  the  Lord  has 
established  in  this  day.  Notwithstand- 
ing the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God  is 
among  the  people,  they  see  it  not,  they 
comprehend  it  not,  because  they  have 
not  been  "born  again."  According  to 
the  words  of  the  Savior,  they  cannot  see 
the  kingdom  of  God  unless  they  are 
born  again;  consequently  they  do  not 
recognize  the  fact  that  the  Church  of 
Christ  is  upon  the  earth,  and  the  king- 
dom of  God  is  here  in  embryo,  because 
they  will  not  receive  the  light  which 
has  come  into  the  world,  for  they  love 
the  darkness  of  the  world  better  than 
the  light  of  the  Lord.  We  believe,  how- 
ever, that  every  trouble  and  adversity 
which  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  called 
to  pass  through  will  tend  to  call  the  at- 
tention of  the  honest  in  heart  to  the 
work  of  God,  and  will  be  the  means  of 
bringing  salvation  to  hundreds  and 
thousands.  The  very  agencies  which 
our  enemies  use  to  defeat  this  work 
will  be  overruled  by  God  for  the  benefit 
of  it.  It  must  be  very  discouraging  to 
the  enemies  of  truth  when  they  take  a 
retrospective  view  of  the  history  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  and  see  how  the  Lord 
in  His  kindness  has  turned,  for  the 
blessing  and  increase  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  and  the  work  of  God,  all  their 
efforts  against  it.  Everything  they  have 
done  to  defeat  it  has  only  tended  to 
strengthen  it.  This  is  in  accordance 
with  the  saying  of  the  Lord,  that  man 
could  do  nothing  against  His  work,  but 
for  it. 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 


37 


I  love  the  work  in  which  we  are  en- 
gaged. I  have  faith  in  it  and  in  its 
final  outcome.  I  believe  in  God  the 
Eternal  Father,  and  I  know  that  we 
are  able  to  approach  Him.  In  His  lov- 
ing kindness  He  is  mindful  of  us.  We 
have  access  to  Him,  and  He  answers 
our  prayers.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  and 
that  this  is  His  work,  and  that  it  will 
come  out  triumphant.  I  thank  God 
that  I  have  faith  in  the  leaders  of  this 
people.  I  have  faith  and  confidence  in 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  the  man  who  stands 
at  the  head  of  this  Church;  I  know  him  . 
to  be  inspired  of  God.  The  Lord  is  with 
him,  and  with  the  help  of  God  I  want 
to  follow  his  leadership,  observe  his 
counsels,  and  do  the  will  of  the  Father 
as  it  shall  be  expressed  through  him. 
God  grant  that  the  spirit  ,—of  peace 
which  the  Gospel  brings  may  pervade 
the  homes  of  all  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
that  we  may  not  be  filled  with  fear  at 
any  time,  except  in  regard  to  our  own 
condition,  and  lest  we  may  not  be  keep- 
ing the  commandments  of  God.  The 
only  reason  that  we  have  for  fear  is 
that  we  are  not  living  near  enough  to 
the  Lord;  but  if  we  are  doing  His  will 
we  need  not  fear,  for  though  all  earth 
and  hell  should  assail  His  work,  yet 
will  it  prosper,  because  it  has  the  stamp 
of  divinity  upon  it.  It  is  the  work  of 
God,  not  of  man.  This  is  my  humble 
testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and 
I  rejoice  in  bearing  it,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
desire  very  much  that  you  will  assist 
me  by  your  faith  and  prayers,  that  in 
what  I  shall  say  I  may  be  led  and  guid- 
ed by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  When  I 
look  upon  this  congregation  of  friends 
and  brethren,  my  heart  rejoices,  and  I 
am  led  to  a  renewal  of  my  faith,  and  to 
greater  confidence  in  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel  and  the  outcome  of  the  work 
of  the  Lord.  As  the  days  and  the  years 
advance,  the  evidences  of  faith  in  the 
religion  of  Jesus  Christ  are  manifested 
by  your  coming  together  in  these  gen- 
eral Conferences.    When  the  first  Con- 


ference of  the  Church  was  held  in  the 
State  of  New  York  on  the  ninth  day  of 
June,  1830,  I  think  there  were  only 
twenty-six  members  in  the  Church  at 
that  time.  When  the  second  Confer- 
ence was  held  in  September  of  that 
same  year.there  were  thirty-five  or  thir- 
ty-six. Comparing  that  Conference  with 
the  one  we  are  holding  at  the  present 
time,  there  is  certainly  evidence  that 
the  Lord  is  in  this  work,  not  only  in 
the  increase  of  numbers,  but  in  the  liv- 
ing faith  that  is  in  the  hearts  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  today,  prompting 
them  to  faithful  labor  and  to  united 
effort  in  pushing  forward  the  work  of 
the  Lord. 

Reference  was  made  yesterday  to  the 
life  of  our  Savior,  and  to  the  generally 
accepted  idea  that  yesterday  was  the 
anniversary  of  the  day  on  which  He 
rose  from  the  tomb.  However,  whether 
Easter  Sunday  is  the  proper  day  or  not, 
we  have  no  objection  to  it.  The  great 
underlying  fact  is  that  He  rose  from 
the  dead,  after  having  suffered  crucifix- 
ion for  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  that 
He  was  the  Son  of  God.  After  He  arose 
He  ministered  unto  His  disciples;  but 
we  are  told  there  was  one  doubting 
Thomas,  who  would  not  believe  though 
his  fellow  disciples  assured  him  they 
had  seen  the  risen  Redeemer.  After- 
ward, when  the  Apostles  were  all  to- 
gether in  a  room,  with  the  doors  shut, 
Jesus  stood  in  their  midst,  and  said, 
"Peace  be  unto  you."  Turning  to  Thom- 
as, He  said  unto  him,  "Reach  hither 
thy  finger  and  behold  my  hands;  and 
reach  hither  thy  hand,  and  thrust  into 
my  side:  and  be  not  faithless,  but  be- 
lieving." 

We  know  today  that  in  the  ministry 
of  our  Lord  and  Savior  there 
were  but  few  who  followed  Him,  as 
compared  with  the  great  mass  of  the 
people.  His  doctrine  did  not  please 
the  multitude.  Very  few  received  His 
word  and  believed  that  He  was  the 
Savior  of  the  world,  the  promised 
Messiah,  the  expected  King  of  the  Jews. 
We  note,  too,  that  the  persecution 
which  came  upon  Him,  His  scourgings, 
His  buffetings,  and  His  final  crucifix- 
ion,  were  not  administered    by  the 


38 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


heathen,  nor  by  those  who  had  no  pro- 
mise in  regard  to  the  coming  of  the 
Messiah.  It  was  His  own  race,  the 
house  of  Judah,  from  which  He  sprang, 
that  inflicted  upon  Him  these  cruel  tor- 
tures, and  finally  put  Him  to  death 
upon  the  cross.  So  it  seems  to  have 
been  all  along  the  line  of  true  Chris- 
tian endeavor  and  work.  Wherever 
there  has  been  the  Spirit  of  truth, 
wherever  there  has  been  an  effort  to 
lead  humanity  into  a  better  way,  and 
to  mark  out  a  righteous  newness  of 
life,  there  has  been  intense  opposition 
exhibited  against  it  by  the  many.  The 
truth  has  had  but  few  followers,  but 
it  has  had  many  opposers. 

When  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was 
inspired  by  the  Lord  Almighty  to  es- 
tablish this  work  in  the  earth,  he  gave 
to  it  the  best  efforts  of  his  life.  Every 
thought,  every  reflection  of  his  soul, 
and  the  love  of  his  whole  heart,  were 
enlisted  in  this  great  work.  How  great 
it  was  he  possibly  did  not  realize  when 
the  Lord  first  communicated  to  him; 
and  even  after  the  Church  was  or- 
ganized and  began  to  assume  a  condi- 
tion of  some  importance  in  the  world, 
even  then,  no  doubt,  he  was  not  fully 
aware  of  the  greatness  of  the  structure 
he  was  instrumental  in  founding;  but 
as  revelation  was  given  to  him,  precept 
upon  precept,  and  line  upon  line,  he 
became  more  and  more  filled  with  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  with  enthusiasm 
in  regard  to  the  work;  and  as  his  en- 
thusiasm grew,  and  as  he  became  more 
and  more  endowed  with  power  from 
on  high,  the  efforts  of  those  who  op- 
posed him  were  renewed  and  redoubled. 
We  find  that  history  repeated  itself. 
The  opposition  did  not  come  from  the 
heathen,  it  did  not  come  from  non- 
believers  in  Christ,  nor  from  unbe- 
lievers in  ancient  prophets  and  apos- 
tles. It  came  from  men  who  said  they 
believed  in  the  mission  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  mission 
of  His  apostles,  and  that  they  believed 
He  suffered  death  for  the  sins  of  the 
world,  and  rose  again  on  the  third 
day,  thus  becoming  the  first  fruits 
them  that  slept,  He  having  the 
key  of  the  resurrection,  with  power  to 


unlock  the  tomb.  So,  as  I  say,  we  find 
history  repeating  itself.  Opposition  to 
this  work  has  not  come  from  those  who 
did  not  believe  in  Christ,  but  it  has 
come  almost  invariably  from  those  who . 
have  professed  to  be  followers  of  Christ, 
just  as  the  opposition  to  the  Savior 
came  from  those  who  professed  to  be- 
lieve in  His  Father.  Singular  as  it 
may  appear,  it  is  an  everlasting  truth 
that  there  is  always  opposition  to  the 
principles  of  life  and  salvation,  and  it 
seems  as  if  the  more  men  profess  to 
be  enlightened,  and  the  greater  their 
professions  of  faith,  the  greater  is  their 
opposition  to  those  who  introduce  liv- 
ing, saving  truths.  The  fiercest  op- 
position to  the  Savior  came  from  those 
who  professed  to  be  the  most  devout 
in  their  observance  of  the  law  of  Mo- 
ses, and  who  adhered  most  strictly 
to  the  forms  and  rituals  of  the  law. 
And  so  opposition  to  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  to  this  day  has  come  from 
those  who  appeared  the  most  devout. 

DesDite  all  this,  we  are  moving  along 
in  the  even  tenor  of  our  way,  and  mak- 
ing some  progress.  Testimonies  are  in- 
creasing in  the  midst  of  the  Saints,  and 
as  our  young  people  grow  up  to  man- 
hood and  womanhood  they  are  receiving 
the  testimony  of  the  Gospel,  and  ar-i 
willing  to  go  forth  and  devote  their  lives 
in  proclaiming  this  Gospel.  Our  mis- 
sionaries now  have  gone  forth  to  the 
principal  nations  of  Christendom,  and 
are  lifting  up  their  voices  fearlessly  in 
proclamation  of  the  truth.  Yet  we  are 
not  very  popular  that  I  know  of  in  any 
land.  Nevertheless,  the  Gospel  is  ex- 
tending, Zion  is  growing,  the  Saints  of 
God  are  spreading  abroad,  and  todaj' 
our  testimonies  are  brighter  than  ever 
before.  We  have  deep  down  in  our 
hearts  a  stronger  conviction  of  the 
truth.  We  know  that  God  lives,  and 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  our  Savior,  who 
died  for  the  sins  of  the  world,  that  we 
might  live.  When  Easter  Sunday 
comes,  or  when  any  other  Sunday 
comes,  it  is  the  Lord's  day  and  we 
reverence  His  high  and  holy  name. 
We  come  together  and  worship  Him. 
Thus  to  us  every  Sunday,  in  a  sense,  is 


ELDER  J.  G. 

Easter   Sunday,   for   we   worship  the 
Lord    on    that    day,    and    not  only 
on    Sunday,    but    every    day    in  the 
week.     We   do   not   put  off  the  feeling 
of  worship    on    the    Monday,    nor  on 
any  other    day.      If    we    feel  as  we 
should,  we  regard    every    day    as  the 
Lord's  day,  and  we  feel  that  we  ought 
to  serve  Him  and  keep  His  command- 
ments continuously.and  not  have  a  Sun- 
day religion  like  a  Sunday  coat,  to  be 
laid  aside  as  soon  as  the  Sabath  day 
is  passed.    The  religion  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  practical  to  a  wonderful 
degree.    Hence,  we  see  that  during  the 
last  four  weeks,  through  the  advice  and 
counsel  of  the  leaders  of  the  Church, 
we  have  had  four  new  Stakes  of  Zion 
organized.     Every    organization  thus 
perfected  will  add  strength  to  the  work, 
and  will  give  greater  power     to  the 
brethern  who  preside  and  to  the  people 
over  whom  they  preside.    Moreover,  it 
will  add  to  the  glory  of  God,  because 
the  Saints  will  live  nearer  to  Him  and 
keep   His   commandments   better;  for 
where  the  Saints  are  thoroughly  ad- 
monished, and  are  in  close  touch  with 
their  leaders,  the  spirit  of  union,  and 
the  power  to  do  good    and    to  work 
righteousness,  is  greatly  increased.  So 
we  rejoice  whenever  a  new  stake  or  a 
new  ward  is  organized.    And  all  this 
is  in  keeping  with  the  progress  of  the 
work.    We  realize,  my  brethern  and 
sisters,  that  we  are  not  held  in  very 
high  esteem  by  our  friends  of  the  dif- 
ferent Christian  faiths  of  the  world; 
but  this  does  not  matter.   We  have  our 
work  to  perform,  and  if  we  act  well 
our  part  the  Lord  will  see  that  His 
work  will  spread  abroad  in  the  earth, 
and  that  all  the  honest  shall  have  the 
chance  to  hear  the  gospel.    I  rejoice 
today  that  we  have  leaders  in  our  midst 
who  know  and  understand  the  mind 
and  will  of  the  Lord,  and  who  are  will- 
ing to  devote  all  their  energies  and 
their  lives  for  the  good  of  Israel.  Un- 
der the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  they  prepare  for  these  great  Con- 
ferences, and  they  give  us  the  word  of 
the  Lord,  that  we  may  be  encouraged 
from  time  to  time  by  meeting  together 
and  hearing  their  voices  in  no  uncer- 


McQUARRIE.  39 

tain  sound  proclaim  the  mind  and  will 
of  the  Lord.  They  point  the  way  in 
which  we  should  walk,  and  they  ad- 
monish us  to  follow  them  as  they  fol- 
low Christ.  We  have  confidence  in  our 
leaders  today,  and  the  Lord  has  given 
us  inspiration  to  be  able  to  say  that 
we  know  this  is  His  work,  and  in  this 
we  are  determined  to  devote  our  lives 
and  the  best  talent  He  has  given  us, 
That  we  may  be  faithful  and  true  in 
keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

ELDER  J.  G.  McQUARRIE, 
(President  of  Eastern  States  Mission.) 

My  brothers,  sisters  and  friends,  I 
wish  I  could  express  the  blissful  con- 
sciousness I  feel  thrilling  and  pulsating 
through  my  soul  in  being  surrounded 
by  thousands  of  my  brothers  and  sis- 
ters. One  can  hardly  realize  this  feel- 
ing unless  he  has  been  out  separated 
from  the  love  that  one  feels  in  Zion— 
cast  upon  the  ocean,  as  it  were,  like  a 
cork  amidst  the  waves,  a  stranger  in 
the  community  in  which  he  sojourns, 
and  after  a  few  years  to  return  to  be 
surrounded  by  thousands  of  people 
whose  faces  are  lit  up  Dy  the  same 
spirit,  and  to  clasp  the  hands  and  feel 
the  throb  of  that  pulse  which  beats  in 
harmony  with  his  own.  I  am  grateful 
unto  God  for  the  blessings  of  the  Gos- 
pel and  for  this  spirit  which  makes  us 
kindred  with  those  in  heaven,  and 
causes  us  to  feel  we  are  renlly  and 
truly  brothers  and  sisters. 

I  preside,  act  as  a  kind  of  bishop,  over 
that  portion  of  territory  lying  north  of 
Virginia  and  east  of  Ohio.  It  includes 
about  one-third  of  the  population  of 
the  United  States.  There  are  a  great 
many  people  there  who  have  not  yet 
learned  I  am  their  "bishop,"  and  I  ex- 
pect it  will  be  a  long  while  before  they 
find  it  out.  When  I  was  first  asked  to 
preside  over  that  district  I  felt  the  re- 
sponsibility, in  that  vast  throng  of 
God's  children,  to  see  that  they  were 
warned  of  the  fact  that  the  Gospel  has 
been  restored  and  that  it  is  now  being 
preached  to  the  world  as  a  witness. 
When  I  stood  upon  Brooklyn  bridge. 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


one  of  the  great  thoroughfares  of  the 
city  of   New    York,  and  watched  the 
throngs  of  people  passing  (three  hun- 
dred thousand  every  day),  and  when 
I  realized  that  this  was  only  one  of 
many  thoroughfares  in  that  great  city, 
and  that  city  was  only  one  of  many  in 
the  district;  and  when  I  thought  of  the 
thousands  of  cultured,  eloquent  minis- 
ters in  the  district,  it  seemed  impossible 
for  a  few  western  boys,  many  of  whom, 
like  myself,  come  from  the  sands,  rocks, 
and  the  cactus  fields  of  the  south,  to 
make  ourselves  heard,  or  known  in  that 
great  mass  of  humanity.   When  we  first 
hired  halls  no  one  entered  them,  and 
when  we  tried  to  get  into  their  homes 
and  experienced  their  exclusiveness,  I 
again  thought  how  impossible  the  task 
would  be.    Had  I  not  known  that  this 
work  was  from  above,  I  would  have 
given  up  in  discouragement.    One  had 
to  possess  a  sublime    faith    in  God, 
knowing  that  it  was  His  work,  and  that 
he  could  make  possible  what  He  had 
called  him  to  accomplish.    With  this 
faith  we  turned  our  faces  to  the  task, 
carrying  on  the  good  work  that  had 
been  started  by  those  who  preceded  us. 
I  feel  today  I  can  say  we  have  at  least 
accomplished  one  part  of  our  task.  I 
believe  that  every  soul  in  the  district 
has  heard  that  the  kingdom  of  God  has 
been  established,  that  God  has  spoken 
again  from  the  heavens,  that  His  ser- 
vants are  traveling  as  they  did  ancient- 
ly,   and    that    this    Gospel    is  being 
preached  as  a  witness  unto  the  people. 
God  has  done  His  part.     Among  other 
things  He  has  used  the  powerful  agency 
of  the  press.    The  press  with  its  ten 
thousand  tongues  has  sent  this  Gospel 
into  the  homes  of  the  rich  and  proud 
as  well  as  the  poor  and  humble.  And 
this,  not  because  of  our  ability,  but  as 
a  result  of  our  faithfulness.   Scarcely  a 
week  passes  but  there  is  something  in 
the    papers  concerning    the    work  in 
which  we  are  engaged.   Portraits  of  the 
Elders,  views  of  their  homes,  the  places 
where  we  hold  our  meetings,  and  our 
articles  of  faith,  are  published  so  often 
that  we  cannot  help  but  acknowledge 
that  God  is  assisting  us  to  accomplish 
His    purpose.     This    strengthens  our 


faith,    even    as     Nephi's    faith  was 
strengthened    when    he  returned  after 
accomplishing    his    mission,  obtaining 
the   plates   of   brass    "that   a  nation 
should  not  dwindle  in  unbelief."   I  men- 
tion this  to  strengthen  the  faith  of  some 
who  may  feel  unable  to  accomplish  the 
task  that  God  has  assigned  to  them. 
While  many  things  are    said    in  op- 
position    to    us    it    is    only  bearing 
out  the  prophecy    that    the    name  of 
Joseph  Smith  should  be  known  for  good 
and  for  evil  in  all  the  nations  of  the 
earth.    If  you  wanted  to  make  your 
name  known  for  good  and  evil  in  all 
the  nations  of  the  earth,  how  could  you 
do  it?      Think  of  how  few  men  have 
made  their    names   known  in  all  the 
earth,  either  for  good  or  evil.  The 
name  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  eighteen 
hundred  years  reaching  the  limits,  and 
yet  today,  nearly  every  one  who  has 
heard  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  has  also 
heard  the  name  of  Joseph  Smith;  and 
while  they  say  many  things  that  are 
evil  concerning  him  there  is  generally 
something  said  that  is  good. 

During  the  last  year  we  have  had 
greater  success  in  our  district  than  ever 
before.    We  have  succeeded  in  estab- 
lishing ourselves  quite  firmly.   We  hold 
Sunday  schools  and  regular  meetings 
in  good  halls  and  in  good  districts;  and 
we    have    congregations    in  Boston 
Brooklyn,    New     York,  Philadelphia, 
Baltimore,   Albany,     and  Alleghany! 
Reporters  come  to  our  meetings  and  in- 
terview the  elders,  and  when  they  come 
in   contact   with   them,   and   meet  a 
pleasant  congregation  of  representative 
People,  they  get  a  good  impression  of 
us,  and  this  preaches  the  Gospel  more 
effectually     than     we     proclaim  it. 
I     remember     when      the  greatest 
storm      of      abuse      we      ever  ex- 
perienced     broke     over     us,  when 
there   was  a  very  bitter  feeling,  re- 
porters came  to  meet  the  elders'  and 
they    remarked    that    we    looked  like 
college   graduates,   that   we   had  that 
clear  look  in  our  countenances  which 
indicated   virtuous   living.    We  cannot 
help  but  show  in  our  faces  the  Spirit 
of  God  if  we  keep  His  commandments. 
When  we  assume  to  be  representatives 


ELDER  J.  G.  McQUARRIE. 


41 


of  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God. 
when  we  go  out  of  private  life  and 
assume  public  life,  something  more  is 
expected  of  us.  When  our  boys  and 
girls  are  called  from  the  various  avo- 
cations of  life,  and  go  into  public  life 
as  missionaries  of  the  gospel,  they 
themselves  seem  to  realize  this  fact. 
Tbey  know  they  are  expected  to  repre- 
sent the  character  of  Latter-day-Saints. 
They  know  that  their  mothers,  fathers, 
and  friends  are  praying  for  their  suc- 
cess. They  know  they  are  expected  to 
reflect  credit  upon  the  Church.  They 
feel  that,  in  a  way,  they  are  representa- 
tives of  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  they 
should  reflect  His  character  in  their 
lives  and  His  principles  in  their  teach- 
ings. I  believe  the  Latter-day-Saints 
can  be  justly  proud  of  their  boys  and 
girls,  so  far  as  their  conduct  in  the  mis- 
sion field  is  concerned.  When  I  hav-.; 
seen  boys  come  into  the  mission  fiela 
unsophisticated,  perhaps  uneducated, 
some  who  have  never  spoken  in 
public  places,  some  who  never 
were  called  upon  to  defend  their 
belief,  but  who  possessed  that 
living  faith  deep  down  in  their  hearts 
which,  when  the  call  for  duty  came, 
prompted  them  to  respond  to  it,  when 
I  have  seen  this  class  of  boys  become 
in  a  very  short  time  able  defenders  of 
the  faith,  and  competent  to  meet  any 
man  in  the  world  in  support  of  the 
principles  of  the  gospel,  it  has  been  to 
me  a  strong  testimony  of  the  truth- 
fulness of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
I  have  noticed,  too,  that  members  of 
the  Church  who  are  indifferent,  and 
who  visit  us  occasionally  look  with 
pride  upon  these  Elders.  If  they  should 
see  an  Elder  with  a  cigar  in  his  mouth, 
or  entering  a  saloon,  they  would  be 
indignant  and  say  he  should  be  re- 
called, they  would  assert  he  was  not 
worthy  to  represent  them,  even  though 
they  did  the  same  things  themselves. 
Those  who  are  neglectful  in  keeping 
the  commandments  themselves  are 
often  most  severe  in  their  censure  of  an 
Elder  who  makes  a  mistake.  We  have 
a  right,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
expect  this  of  our  representatives.  On 
the   other  hand,   what   has   an  Elder 


the  right  to  expect  ,from  you  who  live 
in  Zion?  We  are  pointing  people  to 
Zion,  we  are  telling  them  that  it  is 
established  in  the  tops  of  the 
mountains  that  God's  house  and 
God's  people  are  here,  and  when 
those  people  come  they  expect 
to  find  Zion.  We  have  a  right  to  ask 
of  every  Latter-day  Saint  that  he  or 
she  shall  reflect  the  glory  of  the  Gospel 
light,  just  as  much  as  you  have  a  right 
to  expect  it  of  your  representatives  in 
the  world.  Christ  has  a  right  to  expect 
it  from  that  "peculiar  people,"  that 
"royal  generation,"  that  "holy  priest- 
hood," which  Peter  spoke  of.  When  we 
name  His  name  we  should  keep  His 
commandments.  When  saints  gather 
up  to  Zion  and  they  see  those  who, 
perhaps,  were  once  Elders  among  them 
going  into  saloons,  or  other  men  who 
bear  the  holy  priesthood  breaking  the 
commandments  of  God,  what  is  the 
effect?  You  shatter  their  faith.  I  know 
that  the  blood  moves  quicker  about 
our  hearts  when  we  sing  of  these 
snow-capped  mountains,  these  fertile 
valleys,  and  of  the  crystal  streams 
flowing  down  from  the  mountains  and 
running  off  into  a  shimmering  sea.  It 
is  a  beautiful  picture,  my  brothers  and 
sisters;  but  snow-capped  mountains, 
beautiful  valleys,  crystal  streams,  and 
shimmering  seas,  do  not  make  Zion. 
Zion  is  where  the  pure  in  heart  dwell, 
and  if  we  are  going  to  live  worthy  of 
the  light  we  have  received  we  must 
be  pure  in  heart.  If  we  live  up  to  the 
light  and  knowledge  we  have  received 
and  reflect  it  in  our  lives  in  these 
mountains,  I  know  that  the  Gospel  can 
and  will  revolutionize  the  world. 

We  feel  encouraged  in  our  mission- 
ary work,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 
Tour  sons  in  the  mission  field  are  doing 
a  glorious  work,  and  they  are  meeting 
successfully  all  the  opposition  that  is 
brought  to  bear  against  them.  They 
do  not  flinch  from  the  storms  that 
arise;  they  do  not  fear  when  threats 
are  made.  I  hope  that  everyone  who  is 
here,  w.ill  appreciate  the  power  of  the 
priesthood,  knowing  that  this  is  God's 
work,  and  that  none  will  feel  to  waver 
or  falter.  God  bless  you,  my  brothers 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  sisters,  and  bless  Zion,  that  she 
may  grow  and  prosper,  I  ask  it  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 

Un'ty  in  prayer — Need  of  prayer  under  all  c.rcum- 
stanci-s — Th  •  Lord's  willingness  to  answer  it — 
Operations  of  good  ai  d  evil. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  wish  that  each 
of  you  could  stand  here  and  look  into  the 
sea  of  faces  that  are  before  me,  and 
then  you  would  have  something  of  the 
feeling  which  I  have  in  standing  before 
so  large  a  congregation  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  esteem  it  as  a  very  great 
privilege;  at  the  same  time  I  feel  the 
responsibility  of  occupying  tne  position 
of  a  teacher  in  the  Church  of  Christ. 
I  feel  the  need  of  your  faith  and  pray- 
ers in  my  behalf,  and  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  to  enlighten  my  mind  and  to 
inspire  my  remarks,  so  that  I  shall  be 
able  to  say  something  that  will  edify 
the  Saints.  I  have  been  very  much  im- 
pressed with  the  spirit  of  the  confer- 
ence, with  the  large  gatherings  in  this 
building  yesterday,  as  well  as  at  the 
meeting  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  the 
meeting  at  the  Bureau  of  Information, 
and  in  addition  the  large  number  of 
people  who  were  walking  to  and  fro 
on  this  block.  Zion  is  growing.  It  is 
going  to  be  a  very  difficult  matter  to 
accommodate  the  Latter-day  Saints  in 
these  conference  gatherings.  Neverthe- 
less, we  shall  have  to  do  the  best  we 
can.  We  rejoice  in  the  spirit  of  the 
work. 

One  thing  that  has  impressed  me  very 
much  during  the  conference  is  the  char- 
acter of  our  worship  before  the  Lord. 
In  the  assemblies  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  a  very  important  feature  is  the 
calling  upon  the  name  of  the  Lord  in 
prayer.  The?  words  that  are  offered  up 
in  the  invocation  from  this  pulpit  mean 
a  great  deal  to  the  people.  We  must 
not  suppose  that  when  an  Elder  of  Is- 
rael is  called  upon  to  pray,  the  words 
which  he  utters  belong  to  him,  or  that 
the  prayer  is  altogether  his  prayer.  I 
do  not  so  consider  it.  The  prayer  which 
is  offered  up  ascends  to  heaven  in  be- 
half of  the  entire  congregation.  This  is 
indicated  by  the  response  which  fol- 


lows the  prayer,  when  the  people  lift 
up  their  voices  and  say  amen.  That 
response  makes  the  prayer  general  in 
its  character  and  applicable  to  the 
whole  Church.  It  is  your  prayer;  it  is 
the  prayer  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
And  when  prayer  is  offered  up  in  this 
manner  I  am  simple  enough  to  believe 
that  it  penetrates  into  the  very  heavens, 
and  is  heard  by  God  our  Father,  and 
such  prayers  will  surely  be  answered 
upon  our  heads. 

It  is  astonishing  the  amount  of  scrip- 
ture and  revelation  that  has  been  given 
upon  the  subject  of  prayer,  touching  its 
importance,  its  far-reaching  character, 
and  its  necessity  to  the  children  of  men, 
especially  to  the  children  of  God.  I  am 
reminded  of  a  passage  which  occurs  in 
a  revelation  given  to  Martin  Harris  in 
March,  1830.    The  Lord  said  unto  him: 

"And  again,  I  command  thee  that 
thou  shalt  pray  vocally  as  well  as  in  thy 
heart;  yea,  before  the  world  as  well  as 
in  secret,  in  public  as  well  as  in  pri- 
vate." 

"Pray  always,  and  I  will  pour  out  my 
Spirit  upon  you,  and  great  shall  be 
your  blessing;  yea,  even  more  than  if 
you  should  obtain  treasures  of  earth 
and  corruptibleness  to  the  extent  there- 
of." 

How  impressive  are  those  few  simple 
words  in  regard  to  prayer!  How  far- 
reaching!  They  enter  into  a  man's  life 
and  comprehend  his  whole  existence,  at 
least  from  the  years  of  his  accountabil- 
ity until  he  passes  into  the  grave.  He 
must  pray  under  all  circumstances. 
Prayer  is  not  reserved  for  the  Sabbath 
day  or  for  any  particular  occasion.  It 
is  not  only  to  be  used  at  the  general 
conferences  of  the  Church,  but  the 
spirit  of  prayer  must  be  in  our  hearts 
unceasingly.  We  must  pray  in  our 
families;  we  must  pray  in  secret;  we 
must  pray  in  our  hearts.  The  spirit,  of 
prayer  must  be  with  us  when  we  retire 
at  night  and  when  we  arise  in  the 
morning.  It  must  be  upon  us  when  we 
leave  our  homes  for  our  daily  employ- 
ment; in  the  office;  in  the  shop; 
in  the  field;  in  the  mountains  or 
in  the  valleys,  or  wherever  we 
are.  We  are  told  in  the  words  which 
I  have  quoted  that  if  that  spirit  is  upon 


ELDER  RUDGBR  CLAWSON. 


us  the  Lord  will  bless  us,  and  the  bless- 
ings which  will  come  in  answer  to 
prayer  will  be  of  more  importance  to 
us  than  treasures  of  earth.  "We  know 
something  of  the  treasures  of  earth;  we 
realize  the  value  and  the  desirability 
of  earthly  things.  We  know  how  they 
are  sought  after,  and  what  great  sacri- 
fices are  made  for  them.  But  how  much 
better  it  is  to  enjoy  the  full  measure  of 
the  Spirit  of  God  which  is  promised. 

Then  we  learn  in  another  revelation, 
that  was .  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  in  1832,  something  concerning  the 
character  of  our  heavenly  Father.  In 
that  revelation  He  says  to  His  Church 
through  the  Prophet: 

"Draw  near  unto  me  and  I  will  draw 
near  unto  you:  seek  me  diligently  and 
and  ye  shall  find  me;  ask  and  ye  shall 
receive;  knock  and  it  shall  be  opened 
unto  you; 

"  Whatsoever  ye  ask  the  Father  in 
my  name  it  shall  be  given  unto  you, 
that  is  expedient  for  you; 

"And  if  ye  ask  anything  that  is  not 
expeuient  lor  you,  it  shall  turn  unto 
your  condemnation." 

Mark,  brethren  and  sisters,  how 
clear-cut  are  these  words.  There  is  no 
doubt,  no  dubiety.  It  does  not  say  if 
and  peradventure  you  call  upon  the 
Lord,  He  may  be  gone  on  a  long  jour- 
ney and  you  cannot  reach  Him;  or  He 
is  very  busy;  His  attention  is  now 
attracted  to  the  nations  of  the  earth; 
probably  He  is  busily  engaged  with  the 
great  war  between  Russia  and  Japan 
and  He  cannot  give  you  any  attention, 
therefore  you  might  as  well  cease  pray- 
ing. No,  this  revelation  does  not  give 
forth  any  such  ideas.  Our  heavenly 
Father  is  always  near  and  ready  to 
listen  to  His  children.  "Draw  near  unto 
me  and  I  will  draw  near  unto  you." 
It  is  not  like  we  sometimes  find  it  upon 
the  earth  with  great  men.  Take  the 
President  of  the  United  States,  for 
instance.  He  is  a  great  man,  with  very 
serious  and  grave  responsibilities  rest- 
ing upon  him.  His  whole  attention  is 
devoted  to  the  government  and  welfare 
of  the  people.  The  obligations  resting 
upon  him  are  perhaps  almost  more 
than  he  can  carry.  Consequently,  when 
people  call  on  him,  many  times  he  can- 
not receive    them.    He    may    be  very 


43 

busily  engaged  upon  his  annual  mes- 
sage, or  upon  some  other  matter,  and 
those  who  go  to  see  him  may  have  to 
wait  hours  before  they  get  access  to 
him,  or  it  is  possible  that  they  may 
have  to  trust  their  business  to  some 
representative  of  the  President.  How 
different  with  our  Father  in  heaven, 
who  has  the  responsibility  of  the  world 
resting  upon  Him.  His  hand  is  upon  the 
nations.  He  is  directing  in  all  the 
affairs  of  this  world.  He  controls  in 
all  the  kingdoms  of  the  earth.  He 
knows  what  is  going  on.  He  knows 
the  status  of  this  great  war,  and  He 
knows  just  how  it  will  all  result.  In 
other  words,  He  will  have  it  come  out 
to  further  his  purposes.  He  knows  all 
about  affairs  in  England,  in  France,  in 
Germany,  and  those  ten  great  king- 
doms spoken  of  by  Daniel,  the  Prophet. 
I  have  no  doubt  He  knows  all  that  is 
going  on  in  our  own  nation,  and  the 
great  responsibility  resting  upon  the 
people  of  the  United  States,  the 
people  of  Canada,  and  the  people 
of  all  the  countries  of  America. 
And  yet— think  of  it!  He  says  to  you 
and  to  me:  He  says  to  this  poor  man  and 
to  this  poor  woman:  He  says  to  this  rich 
mar;  and  t°  this  rich  woman:  "Draw 
near  unto  Me  and  I  will  draw  near  unto 
you."  Yes  that  poor  widow  down  there, 
to  whom  nobody  is  paying  any  atten- 
tion, and  who  has  very  little  influence, 
— to  her  the  Lord  says:  "Draw  near 
unto  Me  and  I  will  draw  near  unto 
you."  "My  ear  will  be  open  to  hear 
your  prayer  and  to  answer  it." 
Did  not  the  Savior  notice  the 
widow  who  cast  her  mite  into  the  con- 
tribution box?  She  was  poor;  and 
all  she  had  she  threw  into  the 
box,  and  she  ,  was  left  penni- 
less, and  one  might  naturally  say  with- 
out a  friend  in  the  world.  But  she  did 
have  a  friend,  and  that  friend  happened 
to  be  the  Lord,  than  whom  there  is 
none  greater.  He  stood  there  and  said 
of  that  poor  widow  that  of  her  poverty 
she  had  cast  into  the  box  more  than  all 
the  others  who  had  given  of  their 
wealth.  Is  not  this  a  comfort  and  a  con- 
solation? And  this  is  what  prayer 
brings — prayer  that  is  offered  in  the 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


congregations  of  Israel,  In  the  homes 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  from  the 
heart.  Such  prayer  is  effectual,  and 
it  reaches  into  the  heavens.  It  has  an 
influence  there. 

To  show  the  importance  of  prayer  I 
remind  you,  my  brethern  and  sisters, 
that  in  this  world  there  are  two  great 
powers,  and  these  two  powers  are  at 
warfare.  There  is  the  power  of  good 
and  the  power  of  evil.  They  do  not 
harmonize,  they  do  not  mix.  Like  oil 
and  water,  they  will  not  mix.  On  the 
one  hand,  there  is  the  power  of  good 
striving  with  every  man  and  woman; 
on  the  other  hand,  there  is  the  power 
of  evil  striving  with  every  man  and 
woman.  Their  prospects,  their  record, 
and  all  their  future  will  depend  upon 
which  of  these  two  greatpowers  controls 
them.  You  can  see  this  exemplified  in 
what  occured  with  Peter.  The  Lord 
said  to  him: 

"Simon,  Simon,  behold,  Satan  hath  de- 
sired to  have  you,  that  he  may  sift 
you  as  wheat: 

"But  I  have  prayed  for  thee,  that  thy 
faith  fail  not:  and  when  thou  art  con- 
verted, strengthen  thy  brethern." 

What  a  wonderful  saying  was  this! 
We  would  get  the  impression  thai;  the 
Savior  had  a  perfect  assurance  that  His 
prayer  had  been  heard  of  the  Father. 
Although  Simon  Peter  was  one  of  the 
chiefest  of  the  Apostles;  like  other  men 
he  had  his  weaknesses  and  his  imper- 
fections, and  I  suppose  the  Lord  knew 
wherein  he  was  the  weakest.  He  under- 
stood that  Satan  desired  especially  to 
sift  Peter  as  wheat,  and  to  destroy  him 
if  possible.  Herein  comes  the  power 
and  virtue  of  prayer.  The  Lord  Him- 
self prayed  for  him.  He  did  not  criti- 
cize or  scold  him,  for  He  saw  that  he 
had  weaknesses — as  we  all  have,  and 
I  doubt  not  but  Satan  would  like  to 
have  all  of  us  that  he  might  sift  us;  as 
wheat.  I  firmly  believe  that  if  it  were 
not  for  the  faith  and  prayers  of  this 
people,  which  are  ascending  continually 
to  heaven,  Satan  certainly  would  have 
power  over  us,  and  perhaps  in  many 
instances  we  would  be  overcome  and 
destroyed.  The  Lord  prayed  for  Peter, 
and  His  prayer  was  heard,  and  so  He 


charged  Peter  that  when  he  was  con- 
verted he  should  strengthen  the  breth- 
ren. We  must  bear  in  mind  this  great 
conflict  that  is  going  on  between  good 
and  evil.  '  Everything  that  is  good, 
every  power  and  principle  that  leads  to 
good,  is  from  God;  and  every  influence 
that  enticeth  man  to  do  evil  is  from 
Satan,  the  father  of  lies.  Thus  we  may 
judge  between  the  good  and  the  evil. 

Before  I  sit  down  I  want  to  call  your 
attention  to  the  power  of  prayer  as  it 
has  been  exemplified  in  the  coming 
forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  which  is 
truly  one  of  the  most  wonderful  books 
ever  published.  The  world  might  appre- 
ciate this  book  if  they  were  not  blinded 
by  the  subtle  craftiness  of  man,  and  by 
the  power  of  evil  which  lieth  in  wait 
to  deceive.  This  book  came  forth  by 
the  power  of  God  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  and  I  tell  you  that  its 
coming  forth  was  greatly  influenced  by 
prayer.  It  is  so  declared  in  one  of  the 
revelations  of  God  given  to  the  Prophet, 
found  in  section  10  of  the  Book  of  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants.  I  will  read  it,  be- 
cause it  is  so  impressive,  and  shows 
clearly  the  efficacy  of  the  prayers' which 
were  offered  by  the  Nephites  in  regard 
to  the  coming  forth  of  this  book: 

"And,  behold  all  the  remainder  of  this 
work  does  contain  all  those  parts  of 
my  gospel  which  my  holy  prophets,  yea, 
and  also  my  disciples,  desired  in  their 
prayers  should  come  forth  unto  this 
people. 

"And  I  said  unto  them,  that  it  should 
be  granted  unto  them  according  to  their 
faith  in  their  prayers; 

"Yea,  and  this  was  their  faith  that 
my  gospel,  which  I  gave  unto  them, 
that  they  might  preach  in  their  days, 
might  come  unto  their  brethren  the 
Lamanites,  and  also  all  that  had  be- 
come Lamanites,  because  of  their  dis- 
sentions. 

"Now,  this  is  not  all— their  faith  in 
•  heir  prayers  was,  that  this  gospel 
should  be  made  known  also,  if  it  were 
possible  that  other  nations  should  pos- 
sess this  land; 

"And  thus  they  did  leave  a  blessing 
upon  this  land  in  their  prayers,  that 
whosoever  should  believe  in  this  gospel 
in  this  land,  might  have  eternal  life; 

"Yea,  that  it  might  be  free  unto  all  of 
whatsoever  nation,  kindred,  tongue,  or 
people  they  may  be." 

From  this  it  will  be  seen  that  the 


ELDER  WM. 

coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
was  influenced  by  and  in  fact  was  in 
answer  to  the  prayers  of  the  Nephites, 
offered  up  14.00  years  before  and  recorded 
in  the  celestial  kingdom.  In  conclusion, 
I  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  your  prayers  and  my  prayers,  if 
they  are  offered  up  in  faith  with  single- 
ness to  the  glory  of  God,  will  be  re- 
corded in  the  celestial  kingdom,  and 
the  precious  offerings  and  supplications 
that  go  up  from  these  conferences  will 
be  recorded  and  will  be  answered  upon 
the  heads  of  this  people,  as  God  lives, 
if  we  will  do  our  duty.  May  God  bless 
you  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem:  "Come 
let  us  sing  unto  the  Lord."  Benediction 
was  pronounced  by  Elder  Collings 
Hakes. 

AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn  which  be- 
gins: 

"Though  deep'ning  trials  throng  your 

way, 

Press  on,  press  on,  ye  Saints  of  God; 
Ere  long  the  resurrection  day 
Will     spread     its     life     and  truth 
abroad." 

Prayer  by  Elder  James  E.  Steele. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

"Awake,  ye  Saints  of  God,  awake! 

Call  on  the  Lord  in  mighty  prayer, 
That  he  will  Zion's  bondage  break, 

And  bring    to    naught  the  fowler's 
snare." 

ELDER  WILLIAM  McLACHLAN, 
(President  of  Pioneer  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  In  standing 
before  you  this  afternoon  I  desire, 
above  all  other  blessings,  that  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  may  direct  the  words  I 
shall  utter.  Forty-one  years  ago  I  be- 
came identified  with  the  Church  of  Je- 
sus Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  A  few 
weeks  later  I  received  a  testimony  of 
the  truth  of  this  work.  In  tne  year 
1862,  in  answer  to  prayer,  with  a  very 
earnest  desire  to  gather  to  this  land, 
the  Lord  spoke  to  me  by  the  power  of 
His  Spirit,  and  gave  unto  me  a  promise 
that  I  should  have  the  privilege  of 
gathering  according  to  my  desire  the 


McLACHLAN.  45 

following  year.    With  that  word  came 
the  most  positive  and  definite  assur- 
ance that  was  ever  given  to  man.  I 
could  not  doubt  the  word  that  the  Lord 
gave  to  me  on  that  occasion,  and  it 
was  fulfilled  to  the  very  letter,  although 
I  had  much  trouble  and  difficulty  in 
accomplishing  my  wish.      From  that 
time  to  the  present  I  have  been  a  resi- 
dent of  Salt  Lake  City— that  is,  from 
October,  1863.    I  feel  it  is  a  great  honor 
to  be  called  to  labor  in  any  capacity  in 
the  work  of  the  Lord.    I  realize  very 
much  my  weakness  and  my  inability 
to  fill  the  call  that  has  been  made  upon 
me,  and  the  honor  that  has  been  be- 
stowed    upon    me     by    the  Priest- 
hood   of     the     Son     of     God.  But 
I   have   been   a  worker,  more   or  less, 
all  my  life,  and  my  desire  is  to  serve 
the  Lord  first,  and  then,  if  I  am  able, 
to  serve  the  people  with  all  the  strength 
that  God  shall  give  me.  I  wish  to  devote 
my  time,  and  the  ability  that  God  shall 
give  me,  under  the  inspiration  of  His 
Spirit,  in  laboring  for  the  building  up 
of  this  work  and  the  spread  of  right- 
eousness and  truth  in  the  earth."  The 
pugilists  of  the  present  day  talk  about 
heavy,  light  and  feather-weights;  I  feel 
that    I    am    a    feather-weight.  But 
the  Lord  is  just  as  willing  to  hear  and 
answer  the  petitions  of  the  humble  and 
incapable  as  those  who  are  competent, 
and  blessed  with  great      talents  and 
ability.  I  feel  it  is  the  privilage  of  every 
man  and  woman  who  has  entered  into 
covenant  with  God  to  be  just  as  good  as 
the  best.    There  is  nothing  to  prevent 
all  from  being  good.    The  man  who  has 
the  greatest  ability  is  not  always  the 
best  man;  but  the  man  who  is  humble, 
who  is  willing  to  acknowledge  the  hand 
of  God,  and  who  will  seek  His  aid  in 
accomplishing  the  work  that  has  been 
assigned  him,  will  be  blessed  and  pros- 
pered in  that  labor.     It   is   with  this 
confidence  in  God  my  eternal  Father 
that  I  have  accepted  this  honor  that 
has  been  conferred  upon  me,  and  by 
and  through  His  help  I  shall  try  and 
do  my  duty. 

May  the  blessing  and  peace  of  Heav- 
en be  upon  the  people  of  God.  May 
the  blessing  of  the  Lord  be  upon  their 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


lands,  upon  their  houses,  and  upon 
everything  that  pertains  unto  them, 
that  we  may  become  a  united  and  a 
free  people — free  from  sin  and  from 
stain  of  every  kind,  and  live  in  har- 
mony and  peace  tog-ether  before  God. 
This  is  my  prayer  and  desire  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  NEtPHI  L.  MORRIS. 
(President  of  Salt  Lake  Stake.) 

T  most  sincerely  desire  I  may  be 
g-uided  and  influenced  by  the  Holy 
Spirit  in  the  few  remarks  I  shall  make 
to  you  upon  this  occasion.  Like  Presi- 
dent McLaughlin,  I  feel  very  weak  in 
this  position  to  which  I  have  just  been 
called.  I  have  endeavored  during  my 
life  to  discharge  the  duties  which  ware 
imposed  upon  me  as  a  member  of  the 
Church  of  Christ,  and  I  have  learned 
that  by  humility  and  devotion  to  duty 
one  may  achieve  somewhat  of  success. 
Without  these  qualities  there  is  little 
hope  of  success.  If  my  remarks  are 
to  be  measured  by  my  experience  as  a 
President  of  a  Stake,  they  will  be  cer- 
tainly very  brief,  for  I  was  only  set 
apart  to  this  new  appointment  a  little 
over  a  week  ago.  My  duties  thus  far 
have  consisted  in  signing  a  half  dozen 
recommends  or  so,  and  the  attending  of 
banquets,  so  that  my  experience  5s 
very  limited.  I  feel,  however,  to  ac- 
cept, with  meekness  and  with  gratitude 
to  God,  the  appointment  which  has 
been  given  me,  and  rely  upon  Him  in 
the  discharge  of  the  duties  pertaining 
to  that  calling.  I  am  proud  to  be  as- 
sociated with  the  Church  of  Christ,  and 
to  have  the  fellowship  of  such  men  as 
surround  me  upon  this  occasion.  I  am 
not  ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ;  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Christ,  and  can 
look  the  world  in  the  face  and  bear 
my  testimony  to  the  truthfulness  of 
the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  I 
know  that  we  are  a  people  called  of  God 
for  a  chosen  purpose,  to  help  uplift  and 
save  mankind.  I  know  the  world  mis- 
understands us,  and  it  is  for  our 
heavenly  Father  and  ourselves  to  make 
our  mission  clear  to  the  world.  I  know 
that  we  are  maligned  and  misrepre- 
sented; but  I  have  no  fear  of  the  lies 


of  the  world.  They  cannot  hurt  us. 
We  are  looked  upon  as  being  a  fanat- 
ical lot  of  people — a  people  who  have 
no  high  estimation  of  virtue,  of  honor, 
and  of  those  qualities  which  go  to 
make  truly  great  disciples.  But  this  is 
because  the  world  do  not  understand 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  It  is  lor  us 
then,  to  make  them  understand  us; 
and  if  they  will  but  look  upon  us  with- 
out prejudice  they  could  not  fail  to  ap- 
preciate the  principles  which  animate 
our  lives — the  love  of  virtue  and  hon- 
or, and  devotion  to  God. 

My  most  earnest  prayer  is  that  the 
Spirit  of  God  may  continue  with  His 
people,  and  that  their  lives  may  be 
characterized  by  unity,  by  devotion 
and  sacrifice  to  him,  and  that  he  may 
qualify  us  by  His  Holy  Spirit  in  the 
performance  of  all  our  duties,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  W.  YOUNG. 
(President  of  Ensign  Stake.) 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters  and 
friends:  Of  the  fifty-odd  Presidents  of 
Stakes  in  this  Church  I  am  the  very  lat- 
est in  point  of  ordination.  I  feel  that  I 
have  not  yet  cut  my  teeth,  and  that  I 
have  not  even  learned  how  to  talk.  I 
have,  however,  in  my  mind  some  things 
which  I  think  it  would  be  fitting  to 
mention,  if  the  Spirit  shall  prompt  me, 
and  I  pray  that  I  may  have  it  during 
the  few  minutes  that  I  shall  occupy 
your  time.  Like  Brother  Morris,  and 
like  practically  all  under  the  sound  of 
my  voice,  I  am  proud  to  be  numbered 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  not 
ashamed  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  and 
the  man  does  not  live  who  is  able  to 
say  that  on  any  occasion  whatever  I 
have  not  been  willing  and,  if  the  occa- 
sion were  proper,  anxious  to  declare  my 
belief  in  the  principles  of  what  is  called 
"Mormonism."  I  esteem  it  an  honor  to 
be  associated  with  this  people,  despised 
and  misunderstood  though  they  are.  I 
know  their  work,  their  faith,  the  sacri- 
fices they  have  made,  their  honesty, 
their  virtue,  their  aspirations  and  their 
hopes,  and,  as  I  say,  I  feel  it  an  honor 
to  have  a  standing  in  this  Church  and 
to  be  associated  with  this  people.  It  is 
no  new  thing  for  the  people  of  God  to 


ELDER  ELIAS 

be  despised,  to  be  despitefully  used,  and 
to  be  evilly  and  falsely  spoken  of.  That 
has  been  the  common  lot  of  the  people 
of  God  in  all  ages.  If  we  are  thought  to 
be  unpatriotic,  we  have  but  to  turn 
back  to  the  first  few  centuries  after  the 
time  of  Christ  to  behold  a  people  who 
were  persecuted  by  reason  of  their  al- 
leged lack  of  patriotism,  and  by  reason 
•of  the  accusation  that  they  indulged  in 
treasonable  practices.  It  is  reasonable 
I  take  it,  that  the  churches  of  the 
world  should  have  little  sympathy  with 
this  church.  We  have  come  forward 
with  a  message  that  this  is  the  Church 
of  God,  and  that  by  other  professing 
Christian  churches  the  ordinances  have 
been  broken,  and  they  have  strayed 
from  the  true  path.  Naturally  this 
arouses  within  them  a  feeling  of  indig- 
nation, and  for  my  part  I  have  some- 
thing of  sympathy  for  tnose  not  of  our 
faith  in  their  opposition  to  this  Church, 
but  nothing  of  sympathy  with  their  de- 
sires to  trample  upon  right  and  justice 
and  constitutional  principles  in  their 
treatment  of  us.  I  believe  with  all  my 
heart  that  this  is  the  Church  of  God.  I 
desire  to  be  a  humble  and  obedient 
member  of  that  Church.  I  desire  to  fill 
the  position  to  which  I  have  been  ap- 
pointed— unworthily  I  believe — under 
the  influence  and  power  of  the  Spirit  of 
•God.  It  is  my  desire  to  be  useful  among 
this  people,  according  to  the  capacity 
which  the  Almighty  has  given  me,  and 
to  that  end  I  pray  for  the  faith  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  particularly  within 
my  own  Stake.  I  pray  God  that  He 
may  bless  this  people,  that  they  may 
appreciate  their  responsibilities  and 
their  duties.  Our  professions  are  high, 
and  our  conduct  should  be  equally  high. 
It  is  not  sufficient  that  we  should  be 
contented  with  knowing  that  we  have 
the  truth;  we  should  not  stop  short  of 
living  according  to  the  principles  of 
truth  that  we  have  received.  We  may 
look  among  the  Christian  churches  of 
today  and  we  will  find  many  noble  ex- 
amples of  Christian  fortitude  and  sac- 
rifice, which  we  might  very  well  emu- 
late as  Latter-day  Saints.  Again  I  pray 
that  God  will  bless  this  people,  that 
they  may  arise  to  the  fulness  of  their 


S.    KIMBALL.  47 

privileges  and  their  duties,  and  I  pray 
this  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  ELIAS  S.  KIMBALL. 
(President  of  Blackfoot  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  am  pleas- 
ed with  the  opportunity  of  reporting 
the  Blackfoot  Stake  of  Zion.  I  desire 
to  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  the 
few  remarks  I  shall  offer.  I  am  in- 
terested in  the  work  to  which  I  have 
been  called.  I  look  forth  with  hope 
and  aspiration  to  be  able,  as  a  serv- 
ant of  God,  to  do  something,  to  make 
a  good  account  of  my  stewardship,  and 
not  to  be  a  disappointment  to  God  and 
to  His  servants  whom  He  has  placed 
at  the  head  of  this  Church.  I  will  take 
advantage  of  this  opportunity  to  bear 
testimony  concerning  the  brethren  who 
stand  at  the  head  of  this  Church.  I 
have  perfect  confidence  in  the 
integrity  and  honor  '  of  the  lead- 
ers of  our  Church.  I  lift  up 
my  voice  in  protest  against  every 
declaration  of  disrespect  concerning 
them,  and,  so  far  as  my  influence  and 
power  goes,  to  stay  such  declarations. 
1  protest  against  them.  I  have  been 
brought  in  contact  with  President 
Jcseph  F.  Smith  and  his  counselors, 
and  a  number  of  the  Twelve  Apostles, 
and  I  am  proud  of  the  honor  of  their 
acquaintance,  and  can  testify  to  their 
virtues  and  integrity.  I  tell  you,  re- 
gardless of  statements  which  are  made 
inside  and  outside  of  the  Church,  those 
men  are  interested  in  the  welfare  of 
all  people,  and  are  laboring  incessantly 
for  their  welfare  and  upbuilding.  This 
is  my  humble  testimony  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  and  that  is  the 
reason  I  have  for  saying  at  this  time 
I  believe  in  them,  and  extend  to  them 
my  faith  and  prayers,  and  I  will  give 
them  my  support  with  the  help  of  God. 
I  believe  in  this  Church  also.  I  know  it 
is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  and  I  am  willing  to 
make  any  reasonable  sacrifice,  and  I 
pray  that  I  may  be  willling  to  make  the 
sacrifice  of  my  life,  if  called  upon,  for 
the  building  up>  of  the  Church  and 
kingdom  of  God  in  these  latter  days. 
If    I    understand    the    position  cor- 


4S 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


rectly,  this  is  a  covenant  that  every 
man  and  woman  in  the  Church  has  en- 
tered into.  Therefore  it  behooves  us 
to  be  upon  our  guard  and  cease  evil 
speaking.  I  believe  the  people  of 
Blackfoot  Stake  will  compare  fa- 
vorably with  the  Saints  in  any 
other  part  of  G-od's  vineyard, 
but  I  hav3  heard  some  things  that 
have  not  been  pleasing  to  me  respect- 
ing the  subject  I  have  just  mentioned. 
It  is  a  principle  that  has  been  known 
by  our  people  ever  since  the  organiza- 
tion of  this)  Church,  that  those  who  lift 
up  their  voices  against  the  Lord's  an- 
ointed will  not  be  blessed.  It  is  some- 
thing that  our  people  should  become 
better  acquainted  with.  In  reading  the 
other  day  about  the  Japanese,  I  learned 
that  they  are  recognized  asi  the  most 
loyal  people  of  any  nation.  They  love 
their  Emperor,  they  love  their  coun- 
try, and  that  is  their  religion.  I  do 
not  think  the  Japanese  should  be  one 
whit  ahead  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
in  loyalty.  We  should  reverei  and  hon- 
or those  whom  God  has  placed  at  our 
head.  We  should  give  them  our  faith 
and  prayers.  We  should  not  only  love 
them,  but  we  should  love  our  God,  our 
Church  and  our  country.  That  is  my 
religion,  and  I  pray  that  I  may  have  it 
burned  into  my  heart  and  brain  so 
that  I  may  never  forget  it  as  long  as  I 
live. 

I  feel  well  in  the  gospel.  I  know  that 
it  has  made  me  what  I  am,  if  I  am 
anything.  I  know  it  will  make  me 
what  I  hope  to  become,  through  a 
faithful,  honest,  virtuous  life.  It  is 
worth  to  me  more  than  all  the  riches 
of  the  world,  and  with  the  Lord's  help 
I  hope  to  be  willing  to  sacrifice  all  for 
it. 

It  is  about  two  months  since  I  was 
called  to  preside  over  the  Blackf^t 
Stake  of  Zion.  It  came  hard  upon 
me  because  I  was  required  to  break  up 
my  home  and  go  to  a  new  country. 
You  who  have  not  passed  through  that 
experience  will  hardly  understand  my 
feelings,  but  you  who  have  been  called 
to  fill  missions  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth,  and  to  make  sacrifices  in  that 
line,  will  appreciate  some  of  my  feel- 


ings. I  went  into  that  country  and 
looked  over  the  situation,  and,  to  t^ll 
the  truth,  I  was  a  sick  man  for  about 
ten  days  and  until  after  I  met  with  the 
people.  Subsequently  I  felt  to  glorify 
God  that  I  had  been  called  from  where 
I  lived  to  a  new  country,  where  I 
might  grow  up  with  the  people,  and 
help  them  to  develop  one  of  the  best, 
sections  in  God's  vineyard. 

Now  I  will  tell  you  a  little  about  the 
country.  I  invite  all  our  brethern  and 
sisters  who  are  without  homes,  and  who 
expect  in  the  future  to  seek  homes  in 
a  new  country,  to  come  to  the  Black- 
foot  Stake.  On  the  west  side  of  the 
river  from  Blackfoot,  there  are  over 
one  hundred  thousand  acres  of  as  good 
land  as  lies  out  of  doors.  From  Ba- 
salt, on  the  north,  down  tne  river  to 
Thomas,  in  the  southwest  part  of  the- 
stake  is  a  distance  of  twenty-five  miles. 
It  has  an  average  width  of  from  six  to 
seven  miles,  and  every  foot  of  that  land 
is  arable  and  can  be  covered  with  wa- 
ter. Running  through  this  section  of 
the  country  are  eight  canals,  which, 
when  completed  will  hold  a  hundred 
and  forty-two  inches  of  water — more 
water  than  you  have  in  Salt  Lake  val- 
ley. On  the  east  side  of  the  river  there 
is  a  great  extent  of  territory,  which  is 
covered  with  large  canals  taken  from 
the  Snake  river.  The  country  is  only 
partly  inhabited.  There  are  many  men 
in  that  section  owning  from  six  huadred 
and  forty  to  three  thousand  acres  each. 
They  all  love  the  almighty  dollar 
enough  to  be  willing  to  sell  some  of 
their  lands.  I  regret  to  state,  however, 
there  is  an  excitement  at  the  present 
time  in  our  community.  Eastern  capi- 
talists have  thought  it  advisable  and 
profitable  to  build  a  sugar  factory  near 
Blackfoot  City,  and  the  people  have 
been  thrown  into  an  excitement  on  this 
account,  as  they  were  in  Salt  Lake 
City  when  the  "boom"  was  on,  and  they 
are  asking  two  or  three  times  the  price 
for  their  land  that  they  were  willing 
to  take  a  month  ago.  I  hope  and  anti- 
cipate that  this  spirit  will  disappear, 
and  that  the  people  will  become  more 
reasonable  in  their  prices.    In  looking 


ELDER  ELIAS  S.  KIMBALL. 


49 


over  that  country  I  estimate  it  is  capa- 
ble of  sustaining  from  forty  to  fifty 
thousand  people,  if  it  be  cut  up  into 
smaller  farms.  I  have  never  seen  bet- 
ter soil;  it  is  as  good  as  you  will  find 
in  any  part  of  the  Snake  River  valley, 
and  in  my  opinion  that  is  the  greatest 
valley  in  the  Rocky  mountains.  You 
who  are  unacquainted  with  the  size  of 
Snake  river,  and  the  Snake  River  val- 
ley, have  a  very  slight  conception  of 
what  there  is  to  the  north  of  you.  I 
believe  that  every  one  claiming  the 
name  of  Later-day  Saint  could  go  into 
the  Snake  River  valley  and  become 
comfortably  situated  upon  farms,  it  is 
so  large.  The  Blackfoot  district  is  an 
excellent  farming  and  fruit  district. 
While  I  do  not  wish  to  discourage  our 
brethren  who  live  up  the  valley  (for 
they  are  living  in  one  of  God's  finest 
countries), I  believe  I  have  many  reasons 
to  offer  why  the  Blackfoot  section  of 
the  Snake  River  valley  is  better  to  live 
in  than  it  is  farther  up.  It  is  claimed 
by  the  citizens  who  have  lived  in  that 
section  of  the  country  for  a  long  time 
that  the  open  seasons  there  are  between 
two  and  four  weeks  longer  than  they 
are  further  up  the  valley.  The  altitude 
of  Blackfoot  is  about  the  same  as  Salt 
Lake  City— four  thousand  five  hundred 
feet— but  it  is  considerably  colder  than 
Salt  Lake  City  on  account  of  the  winds 
which  prevail  there.  I  have  faith,  how- 
ever, in  God's  willingness  and  power  to 
help  His  people  if  they  will  keep  His 
commandments,  and  though  these  cold 
winds  are  disagreeable  I  think  He  will 
do  as  much  for  the  people  of  Snake 
River  valley  in  causing  the  winds  to 
abate,  and  the  climate  to  become  more 
pleasant,  as  He  did  for  the  people  of 
Bear  Lake  valley.  My  brother 
Golden  and  I  used  to  live  in 
Bear  Lake  valley;  we  ranched  there  for 
fourteen  years,  and  we  became  inured 
to  the  windstorms  which  occurred  con- 
tinuously through  the  winter  in  that 
country.  President  Budge,  of  the  Bear 
Lake  stake,  informs  me  that  now  it  is 
a  rare  thing  to  have  a  severe  wind 
storm,  and  the  climate  has  become 
moderated  and  more  desirable  for  the 


people.  I  have  faith  that  this  will  occur 
in  the  Snake  River  country.  People 
who  live  here  have  been  educated  to 
believe  it  is  an  undesirable  country, 
with  a  cold,  rigorous  climate;  I 
hope  the  time  will  come  when  you  will 
get  a  correct  idea  regarding  that  sec- 
tion, and  that  some  of  you  will  come 
there  and  settle.  There  are  thousands 
of  young  people  in  these  older  settled 
communities  who  would  be  greatly 
blessed  if  they  would  pick  up  their 
knapsacks  and  come  out  into  the  Snake 
River  valley.  I  realize  it  is  not  the 
desire  of  our  brethern  that  these  older 
settlements  shall  become  depopulated; 
but  there  are  hundreds  of  young  men 
who,  if  they  stay  in  these  older  com- 
munities, will  have  small  opportunity 
of  ever  becoming  anything  particular 
or  gathering  around  them  this  world's 
goods.  They  have  natural  ability  and 
intelligence,  and  they  should  go  into  a 
new  country,  grow  up  with  it,  and  be- 
come prominent  in  the  community. 

I  pray  the  Eternal  Father  that  He 
will  bless  the  Saints  of  God,  and  in- 
spire us  all  to  be  faithful,  true  to 
our  covenants,  pure,  and  to  abstain 
from  everything  that  is  reckless  or  un- 
wise. I  pray  that  we  may  become 
more  loyal  to  God  and  to  His  servants. 
I  feel  highly  honored,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  in  being  a  member  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  in  associating  with  you  as 
such.  I  feel  highly  honored  in  being 
called  to  preside  over  the  Blackfoot 
Stake  of  Zion,  and  with  the  Lord's  help, 
and  the  help  of  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters who  live  there,  we  will  accom- 
plish something  in  the  development  of 
that  country.  I  have  two  counselors 
who  are  strenuous  young  men,  who 
have  faith  in  the  future,  who  believe  in 
God,  and  who  have  love  and  confidence 
in  His  servants;  and  we  are  united.  We 
have  a  desire  to  build  up  that  coun- 
try, that  our  people  will  have  some- 
thing to  be  proud  of.  May  God  bless 
us  to  this  end,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Olea  Shipp  and  Leo  Foster  sang  a 
duet,  'As  Pants  the  Hart." 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER   HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


Encouraging  reference  to  rhe  young  people— Testi- 
mony of  the  Go-p-l-The  believer  and  obedient 
will  be  saved— The  wick  d  cinnot  place  the 
cause  of  their  sins  upon  others 

Relying  upon  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord, 
and  also  depending  upon    your  assist- 
ance, I  trust  that  whatsoever  may  be 
said  by  me  this  afternoon  will  be  in 
harmony  with  the  truth,  as  the  truth 
has  been  spoken  at  each  session  of  this 
Conference.      I   rejoice    in   the  words 
that  have  been  uttered,  and  in  the  tes- 
timonies that  have  been  borne,  by  the 
servants  of  the  Lord.  These  testimonies 
do  much  toward  bringing  joy  to  my 
soul;   for,  like  the  brethren  who  have 
spoken,  I,  too,  have  a  testimony  of  the 
divinity  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and,  like  Brothers  Morris  and  Young, 
I  can  say  that  I  am  not  ashamed  of 
the  Gospel  of  Christ,  for  it  is  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation  to  every  one  that 
believeth.      These  brethren  are  young 
men;  I  also  am  a  young  man,  and  in 
repeating   that    declaration,    made  by 
the  Apostle  Paul  in  an  epistle  to  the 
Roman  Saints,   I  but  echo  the  senti- 
ments of  tens  of  thousands  of  young 
men  who  are  members  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
I  am  proud  to  feel  that  I  am  a  repre- 
sentative young  man  among  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.     If  there  is  the  slightest 
Idea  in  the  minds  of  any  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  that  the  young  men  are  not 
following  in  the  footsteps  of  their  pa- 
rents, and  are  not  gaining  a  testimony 
for  themselves,   those     who  entertain 
such  an  idea  are  not  acquainted  very 
extensively  with      the  young  men  of 
Zion.     Because  one  young  man  is  wild, 
and  perhaps  sinful  and  rebellious,  or 
because  two  or  three  may  be  in  this 
condition,  is  no  valid  reason  why  any 
Latter-day  Saint  should  imagine  that 
all  of  the  young  men  of  the  Church 
are   rebellious   and   sinful.      A  young 
man  may  have  as  great  a  testimony  of 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  may  an 
old  man.     In  evidence  of  this  we  need 
but  point  to  the  thousands  of  young 
men  and  women  0f  the  Church  who  bear 
testimony  that  they  know  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  is  true,  and  that  it  is 


the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  The 
Lord  Jesus  knew  this  when  He  was 
'twelve  years  of  age.   He  knew  that  His 
mission  was  to  do    that    which  His 
Father  had  sent  Him  into  the  world  to 
fulfill.     Long  before  that,  Samuel,  an- 
other child,  knew  it.     Long  after,  Jo- 
seph Smith,  another  child  knew  it.  And 
in  the  intermediate    stages    of  these 
times  there  have  been    thousands  of 
young  men  who  knew  that  God  lived, 
and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.    We,  as 
young  people, are  entitled  to  this  knowl- 
edge, for  the  Lord  will  not  withhold 
any  blessing,  any  knowledge,  any  intel- 
ligence   from      a     man     simply  be- 
cause he  is  young.      Ashamed  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ?    I  have  won- 
dered why  Paul  ever  made  such  a  re- 
mark.     He  was  a  man  who  had  been 
converted  by  a  miraculous  light  from 
heaven,  and  the  voice  of  Christ  speak- 
ing to  him  demanding  why  he  persecut- 
ed the  Lord,  and  from  that  time  on  he 
was  a  preacher  of  righteousness,  a  min- 
ister of  the   Gospel,   a   missionary  to 
the   rsations   of   the   earth,  declaring 
Christ  and  Him  crucified.     Why,  then, 
should  Paul      say,      "For     I  am  not 
ashamed  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ?"  I 
suppose  it  was  because  the  members 
of  the  Church  of  Christ  in  those  days 
were  despised,  hated,  persecuted,  and 
put  to  death  for.  the  bearing  of  such  a 
testimony;    and   no   doubt   there  were 
those  who  were  weak  in  the  faith,  and 
who  had  no  relish  for  persecution  or 
for   death.      These    Saints   to  whom 
Paul  wrote,  living  as  they  did  at  Rome, 
among  the  Romans,   were  subject  to 
all  these  afflictions,  and  in  order  to  en- 
courage them,  and  to  point  out  that 
the    Gospel   was   above   all,    and  was 
better  than  life  itself— in  fact,  that  the 
Gospel  was  life  itself,  and  that  there- 
fore they  need  not  fear  nor  be  ashamed 
of  it— he,  their  shepherd,  their  mission- 
ary, he  who  had  done  much  .to  con- 
vert them,  desired  them  to  know  that 
he  was  not  ashamed  of  the  Gospel  of 
Christ,  because  he  knew  that  it  was 
the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  to  eve- 
ry one  that  believed  it;   "to  the  Jew 
first,  and  also  to  the  Greek."      In  our 
day  there  are  many  men — more  than 


ELDER  HYR 

there  were  in  that  day — who  have  this 
same  testimony,  and  the  same  un- 
daunted courage  to  say  to  the  Saints 
that  they  are  not  ashamed  of  the  Gos- 
pel of  Christ.  Furthermore,  they  have 
the  courage  to  stand  among  the  nations 
and  declare  the  same  truth  to  them. 

Why  should  we  be  ashamed  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ?  Are  we 
ashamed  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
who  suffered  as  we  will  never  be  able 
or  expected  to  suffer,  for  the  truth? 
Ashamed  of  the  truth?  ashamed  of  up- 
rightness? ashamed  of  honesty?  of  in- 
tegrity? of  obedience  to  God  and  to 
righteous  laws?  ashamed  of  all  that  is 
good  and  true?  Why  indeed  should  a 
man  be  ashamed  of  these  things?  And 
no  man  with  the  courage  of  his  convic- 
tions and  with  this  knowledge  in  his 
heart  will  ever  deny  this  truth  to  es- 
cape the  persecution,  the  hatred,  the 
contempt,  and  the  revilings  of 
the  world.  No;  we  follow  our 
Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ,  the 
great  Shepherd,  who  has  declared,  "For 
whosoever  shall  be  ashamed  of  me  and 
of  my  words,  of  him  shall  the  Son  of 
man  be  ashamed,  when  he  shall  come 
in  his  own  glory,  and  in  his  Father's, 
and  of  the  holy  angels."  He  has  said 
further,  "Whosoever  therefore  shall 
confess  me  before  men,  him  will  I  con- 
fess also  before  my  Father  which  is  in 
heaven.  But  whosoever  shall  deny  me 
before  men,  him  will  I  also  deny  before 
my  Father,  which  is  in  heaven."  Who 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  entitled 
to  all  privileges  of  the  knowledge  of 
the  Gospel  of  Christ  for  himself,  will 
deny  Jesus  Christ,  and  by  so  doing 
place  himself  in  a  position  to  be  denied 
of  the  Savior  before  God  the  eternal 
Father?  Not  the  young  men  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  let  me  assure  you; 
and  let  me  assure  the  world,  too,  that 
it  will  not  be  the  young  men  of  this 
Church  who  will  deny  Jesus  Christ,  and 
with  even  greater  assurance  can  I  say 
that  it  will  not  be  the  old  men.  It  will 
not  be  any  Latter-day  Saint  who  has 
the  knowledge  of  the  truth  and  in 
whose  bosom  burns  the  testimony 
thereof  revealed  from  Almighty  God,  in 
spite  of  every  effort  put  forth  by  the 


M    M.    SMITH.  51 

adversary  and  his  emissaries  to  per- 
suade or  to  enforce  us  to  do  so.  I  am 
proud  myself  to  feel  that  I  have  been 
permitted  to  be  born  in  the  light  of 
truth,  and  to  walk  in  the  path  marked 
out  by  Christ  and  well  followed  by  the 
servants  of  God.  As  my  brethren  have 
said,  I  am  only  too  proud  to  be  per- 
mitted to  be  numbered  with  the  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

The  Gospel  of  Christ  is  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation  unto  all  those  who 
believe  it;  but  it  is  not  the  power  of 
salvation  to  any  man  who  does  not  be- 
lieve it.  Notwithstanding  Jesus  Christ 
is  the  Son  of  God;  notwithstanding 
he  was  appointed  and  ordained  before 
the  foundations  of  the  world  were  laid 
to  perform  the  work  which  He  accom- 
plished; notwithstanding  He  came  in 
the  meridian  of  time  by  the  appointment 
of  the  Father;  notwithstanding  He 
preached  the  Gospel,  the  plan  of  life 
and  salvation,  by  which  all  men  may 
be  saved;  notwithstanding  the  miracles 
He  performed;  notwithstanding  that 
ultimately  His  kingdom  will  triumph, 
and  all  enemies  be  put  under  His  feet, 
and  He  will  reign  as  Lord  of  lords  and 
King  of  kings;  notwithstanding  He  was 
crucified  for  the  sins  of  the  world  and 
His  blood  was  shed  for  the  redemption 
of  mankind;  notwithstanding  all  this, 
no  man  on  the  earth  will  ever  be  saved 
by  the  Gospel  unless  he  believes  it.  A 
man  will  never  be  saved  in  unbelief. 
The  Gospel  is  not  the  power  of  God  un- 
to salvation  to  the  unbeliever,  but  it  is 
destined  to  save  all  who  believe  and 
obey  it.  You  Latter-day  Saints  who  be- 
lieve, if  you  continue  in  the  way  of 
righteousness,  shall  be  redeemed  by  the 
blood  of  Christ  and  saved  and  exalted 
with  Him  on  the  right  hand  of  the  Fa- 
ther, just  as  sure  as  He  lives.  The  pur- 
pose of  the  Gospel  is  to  save  us  from 
our  sins  and  our  weaknesses,  through 
repentance.  How  often  do  the  Saints 
pray,  "O  Father,  forgive  our  sins;  over- 
look our  weaknesses,  our  shortcomings, 
and  our  imperfections.  "  The  Lord  has 
given  the  Gospel  for  that  very  purpose. 
It  is  the  mission  of  the  Gospel  to  save 
us  from  these  sins. 

In  the  time  of  Moses  the  Lord  gave 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


commandments  to  Israel,  in  which  He 
told  them  they  were  to  worship  the 
Lord  God,  and  none  else.  They  were  not 
to  make  unto  themselves  any  other 
gods,  nor  bow  down  to  the  likenesses  of 
anything-  in  the  heavens  or  in  the  earth; 
hut  Him  only  were  they  to  worship; 
for,  said  He,  "I  the  Lord  thy 
God  am  a  jealous  God,  visiting 
the  iniquity  of  the  fathers  upon 
the  children  unto  the  third  and 
fourth  generation  of  them  that  hate  me, 
and  shewing  mercy  unto  thousands  of 
them  that  love  me  and  keep  my  com- 
mandments." The  Jews  believed  in  the 
law  of  heredity  to  a  great  extent,  prob- 
ably to  a  greater  extent  than  they  were 
justified;  and  by  and  by  they  took  this 
commandment  and  crystalized  it  into  a 
proverb  which  declared,  "The  fathers 
have  eaten  sour  grapes,  and  the  chil- 
dren's teeth  are  set  on  edge."  Then 
when  rebuked  for  their  sins  and  their 
abominations,  they  would  turn  and 
say,  in  effect,  "Well,  we  are  not  to 
blame.  It's  not  our  fault.  It  is  the 
sins  of  the  fathers  being  visited  upon 
the  heads  of  the  children,  and  surely 
God  will  not  condemn  us  for  the  sins 
which  we  have  inherited  from  our  fath- 
ers, for  our  teeth  have  been  set  on  edge 
by  our  fathers  eating  sour  grapes."  The 
Lord  was  very  much  displeased  with 
this  excuse  of  theirs,  and  He  declared 
to  Ezekiel,  the  prophet,  "As  I  live,  saith 
the  Lord  God,  ye  shall  not  have  occa- 
sion any  more  to  use  this  proverb  in 
Israel."  He  then  went  on  to  tell  the 
people  through  the  prophet  that  He 
would  require  of  every  man  and  every 
woman  in  Israel  an  accounting  for  his 
or  her  own  conduct  and  course  in  life, 
and  every  one  should  be  judg- 
ed according  to  the  deeds  done 
in  the  body.  These  Israelites  seemed  to 
forget  that  part  of  the  commandment 
which  said,  that  He  would  show  mercy 
unto  thousands  of  them  that  loved  Him 
and  kept  His  commandments. 

Even  in  our  day  there  is  a  disposition 
on  the  part  of  some  to  say,  "Well,  my 
father  was  addicted  to  strong  drink;" 
"my  father  was  given  to  profanity;" 
"in  my  father's  family  was  found  con- 
sumption, epilepsy,  and  other  terrible 


diseases  which  are  handed  down  from 
father  to  son,"  and  offer  that  as  an  ex- 
cuse for  their  own  bad  habits.  We  also 
hear  it  said  frequently  concerning  the 
son  of  a  man,  'Well,  you  can't  expect 
anything  else;  look  at  his  father."  Or, 
speaking  of  a  daughter,  "what  can  you 
expect  from  her  when  you  know  her 
mother?"  And  so  it  goes;  we  condone 
some  of  the  sins  and  the  weaknesses  of 
the  flesh  on  the  ground  that  they  are 
inherited.  He  who  feels  that  his  par- 
ents are  responsible  for  his  inherent 
weaknesses  and  evil  propensities,  and 
thereby  justifies  himself,  accuses  his 
father  of  iniquity,  and  classes  himself 
among  the  generations  of  those  who 
hate  the  Lord.  I  should  not  like  to  be 
in  this  condition.  Such  a  one  ought 
to  believe  in  and  apply  the  saving  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
which  will  save  him  from  his  sins  and 
redeem  him  from  error,  and  by  means 
of  this  Gospel  raise  himself 
above  all  the  sins  and  evil  practices 
of  his  progenitors.  This  is  what  the 
Gospel  will  do.  There  is  no  law  of  her- 
edity that  is  greater  than  the  redeem- 
ing power  and  regenerating  influences 
of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  And  it 
is  intended  to  save  the  body  as  well 
as  the  spirit.  If  properly  lived,  there  is 
no  sin,  no  inherited  evil — I  care  not 
what  it  is — that  the  power  of  God  can- 
not relieve  and  eliminate  from  the  soul 
of  man.  It  can  redeem  us  from  the  er- 
rors and  evils  of  mortality,  and  raise 
us  without  sin  unto  salvation  into  the 
presence  of  Almighty  God.  Therefore, 
no  Latter-day  Saint  is  justified  in  con- 
tinuing in  weaknesses  and  in  imperfec- 
tions. All  of  us  have  them,  nevertheless. 
The  Lord  knew  that  when  He  gave  the 
Gospel.  The  Gospel  was  given  for  the 
purpose  of  relieving  us  of  them.  Sin 
came  into  the  world  through  the  fall  of 
man,  and  sin  shall  be  banished  from  the 
world  by  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  If 
we  would  be  raised  up  and  redeemed 
from  the  fall,  let  us  apply  the  redeem- 
ing and  saving  principles  of  the  Gospel 
to  our  own  lives,  for  so  long  as  we  con- 
tinue in  sin  and  are  plagued  with  the 
weaknesses  and  evils  of  the  flesh,  just 
so  far  are  we  from  that  stage  where 


ELDER  A. 

we  can  properly  apply  the  Gospel  or 
that  part  of  it  which  will  particularly 
fit  our  condition  and  save  us  from  our 
evil  tendencies. 

Ashamed  of  such  a  power  and  such  a 
plan?  Ashamed  of  those  who  preach  it? 
Ashamed  of  those  who  practice  these 
principles,  and  who  thereby  have  risen 
to  a  stage  beyond  and  above  their  fel- 
lowmen  who,  perhaps,  may  regard  them 
with  contempt?  I  say  the  Latter-day 
Saints  are  not  the  people  who  will  be 
ashamed  of  this  power  of  God  unto  sal- 
vation. We  will  continue  to  believe  and 
to  practice  the  Gospel;  we  will  continue 
to  be  obedient  and  to  serve  God;  we 
will  continue  to  love  our  neighbor  as 
ourselves,  to  return  good  for  evil;  to 
give  a  blessing  for  a  cursing;  we 
will  continue  in  the  straight  and  nar- 
row path  which  leadeth  unto  eternal 
life,  in  spite  of  all  that  the  adversary 
of  the  souls  of  men  can  do.  Brothers 
and  sisters,  your  sons  and  your  daugh- 
ters will  do  this.  As  young  people  we 
rejoice  that  it  is  our  privilege  to  fol- 
low those  who  are  older,  who  are  wis- 
er and  more  intelligent,  and  who  can  set 
a  good  example.  Thank  God  that  we 
have  such  men  to  follow.  I  ask  you 
young  men  and  you  young  women  of 
the  Church,  where  in  all  the  world 
among  the  leaders  of  men,  in  the  state 
or  in  the  Church,  can  you  find  more  no- 
ble examples  of  righteous,  just,  God- 
fearing, self-sacrificing  lives,  than  you 
find  in  the  lives  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  his  successors?  Every 
young  man  ought  to  be  proud  and 
thankful  to  Almighty  God  that  he  is 
permitted  to  follow  such  men.  That  is 
my  feeling,  brethren  and  sisters,  at  the 
present  time,  and  I  pray  that  it  will  be 
forever.  I  know  it  will  be  so  with  the 
Latter-day  Saints  forever  if  they  con- 
tinue in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
which  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salva- 
tion unto  all  who  believe.  God  bless 
you  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  A.  W.  IVINS. 
(President  of  Juarez  Stake.) 

I  esteem  it  a  great  privilege  and 
.  blessing,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
have  the  opportunity  of  meeting  with 


W.   IVINS.  53 

you  in  Conference  upon  this  seventy- 
fourth  anniversary  of  the  organization 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  Looking  backward,  and 
contemplating  the  history  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  from  the  organization 
of  the  Church  until  today,  I  rejoice  with 
you  that  the  "marvelous  work  and  won- 
der," which  was  inaugurated  with  the 
restoration  of  the  Gospel  in  tne  dispen- 
sation in  which  we  live,  has  been  so  re- 
markably developed,  under  God's  provi- 
dence and  blessing.  The  fact  of  our 
being  here,  the  great  extension  of  this 
work,  the  representatives  who  are  here 
from  more  that  fifty  organized  stakes 
of  Zion,  are  all  witnesses  to  us  that  the 
Lord  has  fulfilled  thus  far  every  prom- 
ise made  to  His  people.  Contemplating 
these  things,  I  know  of  no  example 
where  the  blessings  of  God  to  His  peo- 
ple, His  provident  hand,  His  mercy  and 
kindness,  have  been  more  directly  man- 
ifest than  in  His  hand-dealings  with 
your  brethren  and  sisters  who  are  es- 
tablished in  the  Republic  of  Mexico.  We 
are  not  in  a  desirable  country,  as  men 
understand  country  to  be  desirable. 
Mexico  is  a  land  of  barren,  treeless 
wastes,  a  land  of  dry  rivers,  of  rugged, 
impenetrable  mountains — a  desert  land, 
if  there  is  one  occupied  by  the  Saints 
upon  this  continent.  Notwithstanding 
that,  the  few  Latter-day  Saints  who  are 
there  (they  now  number  thirty-seven 
hundred  souls)  have  accomplished  a 
most  remarkable  work.  We  have  had 
no  pecuniary  assistance  at  all  from  the 
government  in  which  we  live.  They 
have  never  constructed  a  rod  of  road  or 
built  a  bridge.  Notwithstanding  this 
fact,  however,  hundreds  of  miles  of 
wagon  road  have  been  constructed  and 
many  bridges  have  been  built;  eight 
prosperous  colonies  have  been  estab- 
lished, orchards  are  loaded  with  fruit; 
gardens  are  filled  with  flowers; comfort- 
able and  in  many  instances,  almost 
luxurious  homes  have  been  built — and 
all  this  done  by  a  people  in  their  pover- 
ty, who  went  there  without  resources, 
depending  solely  upon  the  as- 
sitance  of  God  and  their  own 
efforts.  And  they  hardly  knew 
why   they   went   there.     They  knew 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


they  were  going  into  the  land  of  the  La- 
manites;  they  knew  they  were  going-  to 
a  government  whose  president,  whose 
ministry,  whose  army,  and  whose  navy 
(so  far  as  they  have  one)  were  made 
up  of  people  who  were  direct  descend- 
ants of  Father  Lehi;  and  they  believed 
that  in  the  providence  of  God  He  had  a 
mission  for  them  to  perform  there. 
Time  has  passed,  conditions  have  de- 
veloped, and  today  we  see  the  wisdom 
of  the  Almighty  in  placing  a  few  of  His 
people  away  off  in  that  southern  coun- 
try, where  the  Gospel  can  be  introduced 
to  this  remnant  of  the  house  of  Israel. 
The  people  have  established  as  good  a 
school  system  as  exists  in  the  Church. 
Free  schools  are  maintained  in  every 
one  of  the  colonies,  and  we  have  never 
received  a  dollar  of  help  from  the  gov- 
ernment. It  has  all  been  done  by  the 
free-will  offerings  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  have  as  good  a  stake  acad- 
emy, so  far  as  our  courses  extend,  as 
any  in  the  Church,  which  is  maintained 
largely  by  the  voluntary  contributions 
of  the  people.  Since  I  was  installed  by 
President  Lyman  as  President  of  the 
Juarez  Stake  of  Zion,  eight  years  ago, 
the  population  of  the  Stake  has  increas- 
ed seventy-five  per  cent.  During  the 
same  period  the  tithes  of  the  people 
have  increased  three  hundred  and  twen- 
ty-five per  cent.  Our  relations  with 
the  Mexican  government  are  exceeding- 
ly satisfactory.  We  keep  entirely  out 
of  politics;  we  mind  our  own  business, 
and  are  left  in  peace— thank  heaven  for 
that!  We  cannot  offer  homes  to  our 
brethren  and  sisters,  notwithstanding 
the  fact  that  we  would  be  very  much 
pleased  indeed  to  have  additions  to  the 
colonies,  because  of  the  very  limited 
resources  we  have.  That  is  to  say,  we 
cannot  offer  inducements  of  a  financial 
character; but  I  do  believe  that  the  mor- 
al atmosphere  of  our  colonies  compen- 
sates us  to  a  very  great  degree  for  the 
lack  of  this  world's  goods  which  we  so 
much  feel.  During  the  eight  years  I 
have  been  in  Mexico  I  have  never  heard 
the  name  of  Deity  profaned  by  a  Lat- 
ter-day Saint,  I  have  never  seen  a 
member  of  the  Church  with  a  cigarette 
in  his  mouth,  and  I  have  never  seen  a 


member  of  the  Church  under  the  in- 
fluence of  liquor.  There  may  have  been 
isolated  cases,  but  they  have  never  come 
under  my  observation.  I  do  not  say 
this  boastingly,  for  there  are  many  re- 
forms that  we  can  yet  make  to  advan- 
tage, and  whatever  we  have  been  able 
to  accomplish,  God  alone  has  the  credit 
for  it,  since  we  have  depended  entirely 
upon  Him. 

As  I  came  to  Conference  this  morn- 
ing two  men  sat  on  the  seat  immedi- 
ately behind  me  in  the  street  car.  One 
of  them  was  an  old  man  and  a  member 
of  the  Church  of  Christ.  The  other 
was  was  a  younger  man,  whose  accent 
clearly  indicated  his  foreign  birth,  and 
whose  features  showed  him  to  be  a 
native  of  northern  Europe.  He  was  a 
man,  I  detected  in  a  moment,  of  more 
than  ordinary  intelligence.  Speaking 
to  the  old  gentleman,  he  said:  'What 
do  you  people  come  up  here  to  Con- 
ference for  twice  a  year?"  The  reply 
was:  "We  come  up  to  be  taught  the 
word  of  the  Lord."  "The  word  of  the 
Lord!  You  profess  to  be  the  Church 
of  Christ;  do  you  make  any  converts 
around  here?"  "Well,  I  don't  know 
that  we  do."  "Of  course  you  don't, 
because  your  doctrine  is  a  delusion. 
You  profess  to  be  the  Church  of  Christ, 
when  in  reality  this  is  a  man-made 
Church  of  yours,  and  Christ  has  noth- 
ing to  do  with  it.  Thank  God  I  found 
this  difference."  "Why!  you  cannot  be 
very  well  acquainted  with  the  history 
and  doctrines  of  our  Church."  "Oh 
yes,  I  am,  I  know  all  about  it;  I  have 
been  here  for  twelve  years."  I  thought 
to  myself,  if  this  is  man-made  religion 
which  we  teach,  where  under  heaven 
would  you  find  a  religion  from  God, 
our  eternal  Father?  And  my  mind  re- 
verted back  to  prominent  incidents  as- 
sociated with  the  establishment  of  this 
work.  At  that  time  how  little  the 
world  knew  of  God;  how  little  they 
knew  the  manner  in  which  religion,  or 
anything  else  in  fact,  might  come  from 
Him!  How  vague  was  the  conception 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  himself  concern- 
ing the  great  plan  of  redemption  when 
he  prayed  to  God  the  eternal 
Father    to      give      him      light,  and 


ELDER  A.  W|  IVINS. 


then    came    that    remarkable  vision. 
God  Himself  revealed  His  own  person- 
ality and  the  personality  of  His  Son, 
the  Reedeemer  of  the  world!  And  with 
the  closing  of  that  vision  there  stood 
upon  the  earth  another  witness  for  God 
competent  to  declare  that  He  was  in 
the  form  of  man.    What  a  revelation  to 
those  people  who  had  been  worshiping 
they  knew  not  what  and  calling-  it  God! 
True,  Joseph  Smith  stood  alone  in  this 
testimony;  but  that  testimony,  corrob- 
orated by  the  written  word  of  God  in 
the  Bible,  still  stands  unimpeached  be- 
fore the  world,  and  it  is  stronger,  bet- 
ter evidence  of  the  personality  of  our 
Father  in  heaven,  and  that  Christ,  His 
Son,  lives  and  speaks  to  the  inhabitants 
of  the  earth,  than  a  negative  assertion 
by  all  the  world  who  simply  doubt  be- 
cause they  have  not  seen.    Then  came 
Moroni  with  the  record  contained  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  lifting  the  veil  from 
off  this  great  continent  of  ours,  and  giv- 
ing to  us  the  key  by  which  the  myster- 
ies of  these  great  ruins  in  Mexico,  Cen- 
tral    America    and     Northern  South 
America  (many  of  which  I  have  seen 
myself)  may  be  unlocked,  and  by  which 
the  hand-dealings  of  God      with  the 
mighty  peoples  who  have  occupied  the 
American  continent  are  known.  And 
more  than  that,  it  gave  us  the  Gospel 
of  Christ  in  its  simplicity  and  purity, 
as  He  Himself  taught  it  to  the  Nephite 
nation.    Then  came  John  the  Baptist 
restoring  the  Aaronic  Priesthood;  then 
Peter,  James  and  John,  restoring  the 
Melchisedek  Priesthood.    How  consist- 
ent, how  orderly  it  all  is — the  time,  the 
place,    the    messengers,    the  message! 
Do  you  believe  for  a  moment  that  Jo- 
seph Smith  had  wisdom  to  devise  such 
a  plan  and  introduce  it  under  such  cir- 
cumstances?   This  man  in  the  street 
car  said  that  Joseph  Smith  and  Brig- 
ham  Young  have  a  terrible  debt  to  pay 
for  leading  these  thousands  of  people 
into  delusion  and  entangling  them  in 
the  meshes  of  this  net      they  have 
thrown  around  them.    Through  the  res- 
toration of  the  Melchisedek  Priesthood 
by  the  Apostles,  the  Holy  Ghost  came 
to  the  world,  which  testifies  to  you  and 
to  me  that  the  record  which  Joseph 


55 

the  Prophet  bore  concerning  the  ap- 
pearance of  God  the  Father  and  His 
Son  Jesus  Christ,  is  true.    The  confer- 
ring of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  by  John 
the  Baptist  restored  the  Gospel  of  re- 
pentance; and,  thank  heaven,  he  told 
us  that  Priesthood  should  never  be  tak- 
en from  the  earth  again — an  assurance 
that  has     not     been     given     to  any 
other     people    that    have    ever  lived. 
Have  not  we  seen  that  promise  vindi- 
cated  up   to   the  present   time?  The 
Church  is  fifty  thousand  times  stronger 
than  it   was  seventy-four  years  ago, 
as  to  membership.     Is  it  fifty  thous- 
and times  stronger  m  faith?   Yes,  I  say 
it   is;    for   we   understand   the  gospel 
better.    By  application  we  have  learn- 
ed it  better.    Excommunications  from 
the  Church  are  far  less  in  proportion 
to  numbers.     There  are  not  so  many 
falling  away.    Consequently,  I  say  the 
faith  of  the  people  has  increased  pro- 
portionately   with,   membership.  And 
this  work  will  continue  to  grow  strong- 
er and  stronger  and  greater  and  great- 
er until  it  does  what  God  has  said  it 
would  do — regenerates     this  earth; 
teaches  men  a  better  life;  makes  them 
more  moral,  more  honest,  more  virtu- 
ous, more  God-fearing,  more  patriotic, 
and  more  capable  of  administering  gov- 
ernment,  whether   it   be   civil  or  ec- 
clesiastical, in  justice  among  men  and 
in  righteousness  before  God.    That  is 
what  the  gospel  is  going  to  do. 

Why  is  the  world. afraid  of  it?  What 
is  there  in  it  to  fear?  Is  it  treason  to 
say  that  we  believe  in  God?  That  we 
believe  this  nation  of  ours  (for  which 
we  thank  Him!)  exists  under  His  di- 
vine protection  and  care,  and  that  He 
has  established  it  and  maintained  it? 
God  inspired  Washington  and  the  pa- 
triot fathers  of  this  country  and  helped 
them  fight  their  battles  in  the  revolu- 
tion. He  sent  Lafayette,  Rochambeau 
and  De  Kalb  to  assist  them.  He 
strengthened  the  hands  of  the  Federal 
army  in  the  war  of  the  rebellion,  be- 
cause the  integrity  of  the  union  was 
to  be  maintained.  He  has  preserved 
and  lifted  the  people  of  this  land  above 
all  nations,  that  they  may  be  a  light 
unto  the  world,  an  arbiter  of  nations, 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  an  example  of  justice  and  righte- 
ousness to  all.  And  He  will  maintain 
them  in  that  just  as  long-  as  they  fear 
and  believe  in  Him.  Is  it  treason  to 
say  that  men  owe  allegiance  to  God, 
and  that  governments  owe  allegiance 
to  God?  Does  it  show  lack  of  patriot- 
ism to  say  to  this  great  nation  of  ours, 
that  this  is  a  land  choice  above  all 
other  lands,  and  that  the  inevitable  de- 
cree has  gone  forth  from  God,  and 
it  hangs  over  this  nation  today  just 
as  it  has  over  every  nation  that  ever 
occupied  the  American  continent,  that 
the  people,  or  nation,  which  occupy 
this  land,  must  serve  God  and  ac- 
knowledge Him?  "We  say  that,  and 
we  want  the  world  to  understand  it, 


as  we  do  every  doctrine  of  this  gospel. 
There  is  nothing  covered  about  it.  We 
welcome  investigation.  Every  prin- 
ciple, every  doctrine,  the  organization 
of  the  Church,  the  union  of  the  people, 
God  help  us  to  keep  them  all  intact.  I 
testify  to'  you  that  this  is  the  work  of 
God;  that  it  is  inspired  of  God  today 
through  its  leaders  as  much  as  it  ever 
was.  God  help  us  to  keep  our  cov- 
enants with  Him,  and  to  wait  patiently 
and  see  His  salvation.  I  ask  it  through 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem:  "Glori- 
ous is  Thy  Name,  O  Lord,"  and  after 
benediction  by  Patriarch  John  Smith, 
the  conference  adjourned  until  Wed- 
nesday, April  6,  at  10  o'clock. 


THIRD  DAY. 


Wednesday,  April  6,  10  a.  m. 
The  choir  sang  the  hymn: 

"Sweetly  may  the  blessed  Spirit 
On  each  faithful  bosom  shine; 
May  we  every  grace  inherit; 
Lord,  we  seek  a  boon  divine.'' 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Angus 
M.  Cannon. 
The  choir    and   congregation  sang, 

"Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salva- 
tion." 

ELDER  CHRISTIAN  N.  LUND, 
(President  of  North  Sanpete  Stake). 
My  Brethren  and  Sisters:  I  must  say 
that  this  call  came  to  me  this  morning 
very  unexpectedly,  and  I  very  much  de- 
sire that  the  few  moments  I  shall  oc- 
cupy I  may  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  and  be  assisted  by  your  faith  and 
prayers.  It  is  the  first  time  in  my  life 
that  I  have  stood  before  so  large  a  con- 
gregation. I  have  been  very  much  grati- 
fied during  this  conference  to  listen  to 
the  many  excellent  remarks  that  have 
been  made  by  our  brethren  who  have 
addressed  us.  I  have  been  edified  and 
built  up  in  my  faith,  and  I  have  felt 
to  thank  the  Lord  with  all  my  heart 
that  I  have  been  permitted  to  be  num- 
bered with  this  people.  I  heard  some  of 
the  brethren  say  that  they  felt  hon- 


ored. Any  man  may  well  feel  honored 
to  be  identified  with  this  marvelous 
work  that  the  Lord  has  instituted  in  the 
earth  in  these  days.  When  I  entered 
this  building  this  morning  l  was  think- 
ing that  this  is  the  seventy-fourth  an- 
niversary of  the  organization  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  upon  the  earth 
in  the  latter  days.  Seventy-four  years 
ago  today  the  Lord  inspired  His  great 
prophet,  who  was  then  but  a  youth,  to 
organize  His  church  upon  the  earth  for 
the  last  time.  He  had  previously  been 
given  the  promise,  when  the  angel  con- 
ferred upon  him  the  Aaronic  priesthood, 
that  that  priesthood  should  not  be 
taken  from  the  earth  until  the  sons  of 
Levi  should  offer  an  offering  unto  the 
Lord  in  righteousness.  That  promise 
has  been  given  to  no  other  dispensation 
and  to  no  other  people,  but  it  was  given 
to  this  dispensation,  indicating  that 
the  work  which  God  established 
through  the  Prophet  should  remain; 
that  it  was  not  to  be  given  to  another 
people,  and  it  was  not  to  be  taken 
away  again,  as  had  been  the  case  in 
farmer  dispensations.  That  promise 
has  no  doubt  comforted  the  hearts  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  in  hours  of  af- 
fliction, when  the  clouds  of  darkness 


ELDER  CHRISTIAN  M.  LUND. 


57 


have  obscured  the  heavens.  It  is  a 
source  of  comfort  to  us  today,  as  it  has 
been  ever  since  the  work  was  intro- 
duced. When  we  look  back  over  this 
period  of  time  we  can  praise 
the  name  of  the  Lord  and  say  that 
so  far  He  hath  verified  that  promises 
This  Church  has  grown  from  that  day 
to  the  present,  in  numbers,  in  strength, 
in  power,  in  righteousness,  and  in  all 
that  tends  to  make  us  mighty  in  the 
earth. 

When  the  Savior  was  asked  in  His 
day  to  tell  what  should  be  the  signs 
of  His  coming  and  of  the  end  of  the 
world,  He  told  a  number  of  things 
that  should  transpire  before  that  time. 
One  of  these  signs  was  that  the  Gospel 
of  the  kingdom  should  be  preached 
to  all  the  world  for  a  witness,  and  then 
should  the  end  come.  This  seems  to 
me  the  great  mission  of  the  Church 
in  this  dispensation,  to  send  the  Gospel 
to  all  nations  for  a  witness  before  the 
end  shall  come.  When  our  Elders  go 
into  the  various  nations  of  the  earth 
they  do  not  expect  to  convert  all  the 
people,  but  they  go  to  warn  all  people, 
to  preach  the  Gospel  for  a  witness  to 
all  nations  where  they  have  the  privi- 
lege of  going,  that  all  men  may  be 
without  an  excuse  before  the  Lord  in 
the  day  of  judgment. 

I  feel  honored  to  have  the  privilege 
of  being  a  member  of  this  Church.  I 
feel  grateful  to  my  Heavenly  Father 
that  He  called  me  from  the  land  that 
gave  me  birth;  that  He  sent  his  ser- 
vant, our  great  Apostle  of  the  North, 
as  we  used  to  call  him— Brother  Erastus 
Snow — who  came  to  our  country  to  turn 
the  keys  of  the  Gospel  to  the  thousands 
and  tens  of  thousands  of  the  blood  of 
Israel  in  those  lands.  I  feel  grateful 
that  in  my  boyhood  this  message  of  the 
Gospel  came  to  me,  and  that  God 
touched  my  heart,  enlightened  my  mind 
and  inspired  my  soul  to  understand  the 
truth.  I  felt  at  once  that  it  was  from 
the  Lord,  and  I  have  felt  so  from  that 
time  to  the  present.  I  have  tried  to  give 
to  this  work  my  best  thoughts,  my  best 
efforts;  and  I  trust  that  this  shall  be  my 
aim  in  the  future. 


A  little  over  three  years  ago  the 
Sanpete  Stake  of  Zion  was  divided  in 
two,  and  I  was  called  upon  to  preside 
over  the  North  Sanpete  Stake,  which 
comprises  the  north  portion  of  Sanpete 
county.  I  want  to  say  here,  by  way 
of  report  of  that  stake,  that  we  have 
in  that  stake  a  good  people;  a  people 
who  are  desirous  of  serving  the  Lord 
and  who  are  trying  to  keep  His  com- 
mandments and  to  roll  forward  this 
great  work.  They  are  endeavoring 
to  pay  their  tithes  and  their  offerings 
unto  the  Lord,  and  to  live  so  that  they 
may  enjoy  His  Holy  Spirit.  We 
have  eleven  wards  in  our  stake, 
some  very  small  and  some  large. 
They  are  presided  over  by  some  of  our 
best  men.  Since  coming  to  conference 
we  have  been  notified  of  the  death  of 
one  of  our  most  worthy  men — Bishop 
James  A.  Allred — who  has  presided  over 
Spring  City  ward  for  the  last  23  years. 
A  better  man,  a  better  presiding  offi- 
cer, I  do  not  think  we  have  or  have  had 
in  our  stake.  He  was  84  or  85  years 
of  age,  but  until  within  a  few  months 
he  seemed  to  be  strong,  energetic  and 
capable  of  taking  charge  of  everything 
pertaining  to  his  ward,  and  he  had  its 
affairs  in  his  hands  just  as  though  he 
were  a  young  man.  We  regret  very 
much  to  lose  his  services,  but  we  feel 
that  he  has  performed  a  most  glorious 
mission.  He  has  been  an  example  that 
will  be  a  strength  to  that  ward  and  to 
that  stake  for  years  to  come.  So  I  may 
say  about  our  Bishops  generally.  They 
are  men  of  God.  Our  High  Council,  and 
our  brethren  who  have  charge  of  the 
various  organizations,,  are  likewise 
men  of  God,  and  are  trying  to  perform 
their  duty  to  the  very  best  of  their  abil- 
ity. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  real- 
ize that  the  time  of  this  conference  is 
very  precious,  and  it  would  not  be 
proper  for  me,  nor  do  I  feel  inclined, 
to  occupy  more  of  it,  but  I  am  glad  to 
bear  this  testimony  to  you  this  morn- 
ing. I  know  as  well  as  I  know  my  own 
existence  that  this  is  the  work  of  God. 
The  Lord  has  revealed  this  to  me 
through  His  holy  Spirit.    I  know  that 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God.  I 
know  that  he  held  the  keys  of  this  dis- 
pensation, and  that  God  revealed  Him- 
self to  him,  in  connection  with  His 
Son,  Jesus  Christ.  I  know  that  the 
men  who  have  succeeded  him  in  the 
presidency  of  this  Church  have  been 
men  of  God  and  prophets  of  the  Lord. 
I  bear  the  same  testimony  concerning 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  who  now 
stands  at  the  head  of  this  great  work 
upon  the  earth.  I  sustain  him  as  a 
prophet  of  the  Lord.  I  sustain  his  coun- 
selors, and  the  Apostles  also,  as  men  of 
God.  I  pray  for  them  continually,  and 
ask  God  to  bless  and  strengthen  them 
to  carry  the  grave  responsibilities  and 
burdens  which  are  laid  upon  their 
shoulders  to  the  honor  and  glory  of 
God  and  the  blessing  and  benefit  of  His 
people.  May  God  bless  us  all,  I  ask  it 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  MOSES  W.  TAYLOR, 
(President  of  Summit  Stake). 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  an 
interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers, 
that  what  I  say  may  be  inspired  from 
on  high.  I  am  very  much  pleased  with 
the  remarks  that  were  made  by  Presi- 
dent C.  N.  Lund.  I  was  very  glad  to 
hear  him  say,  "I  pray  for  the  authori- 
ties of  the  Church,  and  I  sustain  them." 
There  is  something  wonderful  in  the 
thought  that  we  pray,  and  then  that  we 
practice  what  we  pray.  I  would  like  to 
see  every  Latter-day  Saint  practice 
what  they  pray.  "When  one  of  my  coun- 
selors was  selected  and  the  authorities 
asked  him  what  he  thought  about  it, 
he  said,  "I  can  live  my  religion,  but  I 
fear  I  cannot  preach  it."  The  Apos- 
tles said  to  him,  "You  are  the  man  we 
want.  We  want  somebody  that  can 
live  their  religion  and  not  preach  so 
much."  And  I  think  it  would  be  a  good 
thing  to  go  a  little  further  and  say, 
"We  can  practice  what  we  pray."  I 
have  heard  of  some  Latter-day  Saints 
praying  to  the  Lord  to  sustain  the 
prophet,  seer,  and  revelator  who  stands 
at  the  head  of  the  Church,  and  then 
go  out  on  the  street  corners  finding 
fault  with  some  recent  instructions  or 
counsels    given    by   the   President.  I 


would  like  that  class  of  people,  if  I 
had  anything  to  do  with  tnem,  to  say, 
"I  will  practice  what  I  pray." 

As  far  as  the  Summit  Stake  of  Zion 
is  concerned,  we  live  on  the  tops  of  the 
mountains,  and  when  anyDOdy  asks  us 
how  we  are  getting  along  we  always 
say  we  are  still  on  top.  I  can  testify 
that  we  have  some  excellent  Saints  in 
Summit  County.  We  have  some  good 
Bishops,  some  good  High  Councilors, 
some  good  Superintendents  of  Sunday 
Schools,  of  Religion  Classes,  of  Pri- 
mary Associations,  and  of  Mutual  Im- 
provement Associations.  They  are  very 
active  and  energetic.  Our  home  mis- 
sionaries are  also  active,  and  it  does 
not  matter  how  muddy  the  roads  are, 
or  how  far  they  have  to  travel,  they 
almost  invariably  fulfil  their  appoint- 
ments. l«on»etimes  one  may  excuse 
himself  on  account  of  having  a  sore 
foot,  or  something  of  that  kind,  but  as 
a  rule  when  any  of  them  have  a  sore 
foot  they  wrap  a  rag  around  it  and  go 
anyhow.  That's  the  kind  of  people 
we  have  in  Summit  Stake  of  Zion. 
I  sometimes  think  that  we  have  a 
few  out  there  whose  labor  consists 
principally  in  standing  around,  after 
they  have  pi'ayed  to  sustain  the  au- 
thorities of  the  Church,  and  "knocking" 
those  same  authorities.  But  there  are 
very  few  of  this  kind;  I  generally  say 
we  have  just  about  six.  "We  have  not 
the  richest  piece  of  land  on  the  face  of 
the  earthy. and  we  sometimes  have  frost 
on  the  Fourth  of  July;  but  when  our 
potatoes  are  frozen,  it  seems  like  the 
Lord  blesses  them  and  they  begin  to 
come  up  again,  so  that  before  the  close 
of  the  year  we  have  some  good  pota- 
toes. Occasionally  they  may  be  small, 
but  they  are  the  kind  that  falls  down 
like  flour  when  they  are  cooked,  and 
are  good  to  eat.  Everything  out  there 
is  good.  Our  lettuce  is  crisp  and  good, 
and  all  else  that  we  have  we  think  is 
good.  We  have  coal  mines,  gold  mines, 
silver  mines,  and  everything  of  that 
kind.  "While  we  sometimes  think  we 
are  the  poorest  people  on  the  face  of 
the  earth,  yet  we  know  that  out  of 
Summit  county  comes  most  of  the 
riches  of  the  state.    Nearly  all  the  rich 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  BASSETT. 


59 


men  of  Utah  have  made  their  fortunes 
in  Summit  county,  but  they  always 
move  away  when  they  get  rich.  Broth- 
er Clawson  remarks,  "then  you  must 
have  the  poor  with  you  always."  That 
is  a  true  saying-;  but  our  poor,  as  a 
rule,  are  the  independent  poor.  I  have 
been  in-  some  of  the  wards  where,  af- 
ter the  Bishops  have  collected  the  fast 
offerings,  they  have  asked  me  if  they 
couldn't  use  them  for  the  benefit  of 
the  ward;  "because,"  they  said,  "we 
are  all  poor  in  this  ward."  That  is 
about  the  way  some  of  them  talk;  yet 
when  I  ask  how  many  mortgages  they 
have  in  their  town,  the  reply  is,  "Oh, 
we  have  no  mortgages,  but  we  are  all 
poor."  Well,  when  a  man  is  in  a  con- 
dition where  he  doesn't  owe  anything', 
we  consider  him  well  off;  and  we  try 
to  teach  the  people  to  show  the  best 
side.  My  father.  President  John  Tay- 
lor, believed  in  that  idea.  I  remember 
a  number  of  years  ago  Baron  Roths- 
child, supposed  to  be  the  richest  man 
in  the  world,  came  to  Utah.  He  had 
known  my  father  in  France  when  he 
was  on  a  mission,  and  father  desired 
to  entertain  him  while  he  was  here. 
He  had  an  old  carriage,  and  he  had  two 
black  horses,  and  about  a  dozen  boys, 
so  he  made  a  combination.  He  got  the 
boys  out,  and  we  washed  the  harness, 
we  blacked  it  with  black  oil,  rubbed  and 
greased  the  old  carriage  to  make  it  look 
nice,  and  then  on  the  morning  of 
Rothschild's  arrival  father  came  out 
with  a  great  big  black  cloak  that  he 
used  to  put  on  in  Prance.  There 
were  the  horses,  there  was  the 
carriage,  all  polished  up  and  looking 
fine,  and  Rothschild  didn't  know  but 
father  was  a  millionaire.  I  say  that 
the  Latter-day  Saints  ought  to  put  the 
best  side  out.  I  remember  once  go- 
ing up  on  the  street  after  I  had  returned 
from  my  mission.  My  mother,  in  com- 
mon with  the  rest  of  the  family,  hav- 
ing passed  through  a  great  deal  of  trial 
and  hard  times,  had  got  into  the  habit 
of  saving — in  fact,  she  hardly  knew 
how  to  do  anything  else.  I  had  re- 
ceived an  official  appointment  in  Salt 
Lake  Citv  and  the  first  thing  I  did 
was  to  buy  me  a  new  suit  of  clothes. 


With  these  clothes  on,  I  was  on  the 
street,  and  father's  carriage  drove 
along  and  he  had  my  mother  in  with 
him.  He  invited  me  into  the  carriage, 
and  the  'first  thing  my  mother  said  upon 
seeing  my  new  suit  was,  "You  extra- 
vagant boy.  You'll  go  to  ruin,  sure. 
You're  always  buying  something  like 
that."  I  can  remember  my  father's 
remark.  He  said,  "Pshaw,  pshaw,  let 
the  boy  dress  in  accordance  with  his 
position."  .And  so  I  thought.  It's  a 
good  idea  to  put  the  best  side  out. 

I  was  very  glad  to  see  in  the  paper  the 
other  day  big  headlines  which  read, 
"Clean  out  your  back  yards."  On  one 
occasion,  in  the  Summit  Stake  of  Zion, 
one  of  the  Apostles  was  going  around 
with  us,  and  we  went  to  a  house  to 
select  a  Bishop.  When  we  put  up  our 
team,  we  had  to  climb  over  so  much 
manure  to  get  to  the  barn  that  the 
Apostle  said,  and  I  said,  too,  "That 
man  will  never  do  for  a  Bishop."  So 
brethren,  clean  out  your  back  yards. 
Make  everything  clean  and  respectable, 
so  that  the  Lord  and  His  angels  would 
be  glad  to  come  and  dwell  with  you. 
Even  a  common  man  like  the  president 
of  a  stake  does  not  want  to  dwell  with 
you  if  your  houses  are  unclean.  Keep 
the  best  side  out,  and  if  you  do,  the 
Lord  will  bless  you  and  increase  you 
in  many  ways.  May  the  Lord  bless  us 
all,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  THOMAS  E.  BASSETT. 
(President  of  Fremont  Stake.) 

I  feel  honored,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, to  be  permitted  to  bear  my  testi- 
mony in  connection  with  my  brethren. 
I  rejoice  that  I  am  counted  worthy  to 
be  numbered  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  desire  to  thank  my  Heaven- 
ly Father  for  His  protecting  care  and 
kindness  toward  me  in  casting  my  lot 
among  this  people,  so  that  my  stubborn 
nature  has  been  more  or  less  brought 
into  subjection  to  His  will  through  my 
associations  with  His  people.  My 
experience  leads  me  to  believe 
that  mankind  naturally  are  prone  to  do 
evil,  and  that  it  requires  constant  as- 
sociation with  good  people  and  proper 
influences  to  keep  us  in  touch  with  the 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Spirit  of  God.  I  bear  my  testimony  to 
you  this  morning'  that  in  all  the  asso- 
ciations I  have  had  with  the  Latter- 
day  Saints— which  has  been  from  my 
early  boyhood — I  have  never  yet  been 
taught  anything  but  what  would  make 
me  a  better  man  than  I  otherwise  would 
be.  There  is  nothing  in  Mormonism 
that  will  make  of  us  undesirable  citi- 
zens of  any  nation.  I  have  been  taught 
from  my  earliest  boyhood  as  you  no 
doubt  all  have,  to  obey  and  honor  the 
laws  of  the  land;  in  fact,  it  is  said  in 
one  of  the  revelations  of  the  Almighty 
that  if  we  will  keep  the  laws  of  God  we 
will  have  no  need  to  break  the  laws  of 
the  land.  I  desire  to  testify  to  all 
under  the  sound  of  my  voice  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  are  a  patriotic  peo- 
ple, an  industrious  people,  a  people  who 
have  made  the  desert  wastes  blossom 
as  the  rose.  They  have  proved  to  be  a 
desirable  community  wheresoever  their 
lots  have  been  cast.  It  is  really  as- 
tounding to  see  the  benefits  that  the 
country  has  derived  from  the  location 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  section 
where  I  am  called  to  labor.  Twenty- 
one  years  ago,  when  we  went  in  to  that 
country,  I  remember  that  from  Pocatel- 
lo  northward  for  hundreds  of  miles 
scarcely  anything  could  be  found  but 
sagebrush,  sandy  wastes,  cactus,  and 
desert  plains.  There  was  very  little 
that  was  pleasing  to  the  eye.  But 
through  the  establishment  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  in  that  locality,  you 
can  find  in  that  country  today  a  con- 
tinuous stretch  of  productive  fields  and 
gardens  from  Pocatello  almost  into  the 
Yellowstone  National  park.  At  that 
time  there  were  perhaps  not 
more  than  two  hundred  Latter- 
day  Saints  located  in  that  country.  To- 
day we  have  in  the  neighborhood  of 
twenty  thousand,  and  the  workmanship 
of  their  hands  can  be  seen  on  every 
side.  Towns  and  villages  have  sprung 
up,  and  the  history  made  by  our  peo- 
ple in  that  locality  is  such  that  the 
State  of  Idaho  is  proud  to  acknowledge 
us  as  citizens.  When  our  brethren 
have  been  honored  with  positions  in 
the  representative  halls  of  that  State 
they  have  been  treated  with  the  great- 


est courtesy,  and  have  been  looked  up- 
on as  men  of  honor,  clean  and  honest 
in  all  their  conduct.  "We  have  done  a 
noble  work  in  that  part  of  the  country. 
I  am  proud  to  say  we  have  erected  a 
very  fine  school  building,  acknowledged 
by  the  Governor  and  other  representa- 
tive men  of  the  State  as  perhaps  the 
finest  school  building  in  the  State.  It 
has  been  built  by  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  that  in  small  contributions.  This 
stands  today  as  a  monument  to  the  cred- 
it of  our  people,  and  it  should  stand 
forever  as  an  evidence  that  we  are  an 
education-loving  people.  The  claim 
made  by  some  who  are  not  of  us  that 
"Mormonism"  thrives  best  where  ig- 
norance prevails  to  the  greatest  extent, 
is  untrue.  Our  people  have  shown  by 
their  efforts  that  they  love  education, 
and  they  believe  in  the  motto,  "Intelli- 
gence is  the  glory  of  God."  We  are 
using  every  endeavor  to  bring  up  the 
young  and  rising  generation  in  a  way 
that  will  be  pleasing  to  our  heavenly 
Father,  and  that  will  make  them  good 
citizens  of  whatever  land  they  live  in. 

I  indorse  most  heartily  the  testimo- 
nies that  have  been  given  by  our  breth- 
ren during  this  Conference.  In  the  Fre- 
mont Stake  of  Zion  we  uphold  the  au- 
thorities of  the  Church,  not  only  with 
our  faith  and  prayers,  but  with  our  ac- 
tions. I  have  in  my  home  the  pictures 
of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  and 
the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  I  point  out 
each  one  of  them  to  my  children  as  be- 
ing a  man  of  God.  I  am  sure  that  not 
only  from  Utah  and  the  States  on  the 
South,  but  from  the  State  of  Idaho  also, 
will  come  a  host  of  people  who  will  up- 
hold the  Presidency  of  this  Church,  who 
esteem  Joseph  Smith  as  a  prophet,  and 
those  who  have  succeeded  him  as  his 
lawful  and  legal  successors.  I  rejoice, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  associat- 
ed with  you.  I  bear  my  testimony  to 
the  truthfulness  of  the  latter-day  work. 
If  we  will  be  good  Latter-day  Saints, 
we  will  be  good  American  citizens,  be- 
cause the  Gospel  requires  nothing  of  us 
but  what  will  make  of  us  better  men, 
and  better  citizens  of  any  nation  where 
our  lots  may  be  cast.  May  God  bless 
you  and  inspire  us  all  to  remain  firm 


ELDER   JESSE   N.  SMITH. 


61 


and  true  to  the  covenants  we  have 
made  with  Him,  and  above  all  things 
to  be  united  together  in  the  bonds  of 
love  and  union,  having  the  Spirit  of  God 
dwelling  in  our  hearts,  that  we  may  in 
very  deed  be  the  children  of  God.  I  ask 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JESSE  N.  SMITH. 
(President  of  Snowflake  Stake.) 

I  feel  greatly  honored,  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  come  before  you  for  a  few 
moments.  The  Saints  in  our  part  of  the 
world  are  few  in  number,  but  they  are 
very  good  and  faithful  people.  We 
have,  I  think  I  may  say,  lived  down  to 
a  great  extent  the  prejudice  tnat  exist- 
ed among  our  outside  brethren  and  sis- 
ters. The  people  of  Arizona  generally 
are  a  good  people.  They  are  not  relig- 
ious, however,  as  the  world  regards  re- 
ligion; still  they  are  large  hearted,  lib- 
eral, and  willing  that  others  shall  en- 
joy the  rights  of  conscience.  Our  wards 
are  fully  organized.  We  have  six  small 
wards  in  our  stake.  In  that  part  of  the 
country  there  are  not  many  facilities  in 
any  one  place  for  the  settlement  and 
sustenance  of  the  people.  We  have 
made  some  advancement  educationally. 
We  have  good  schools.  Our  academy 
is  in  a  good  situation  and  doing  good 
work.  We  rejoice  in  the  prosperity  of 
the  cause.  Although  far  away  from 
you,  we  endeavor  to  keep  pace  with  the 
progress  of  events.  We  have  a  lively 
interest  in  all  that  pertains  to  the  up- 
building of  the  kingdom  of  God.  I  sup- 
pose I  may  say  that  we  are  not  very 
well  off  for  this  world's  goods,  and 
when  our  brethren  are  so  fortunate  as 
to  get  a  little  ahead  in  that  direction, 
they  generally  move  to  more  favored 
localities.  This  is  all  right,  so  far  as 
I  know.  We  bid  them  God  speed 
when  they  go  to  other  places,  and  hope 
for  their  prosperity.  I  esteem  it  a 
great  happiness  that  I  have  received 
faith  in  this  work.  I  have  never  sup- 
posed that  I  was  naturally  much  in- 
clined to  be  religious,  but  it  was  my 
good  fortune  to  have  God-fearing  par- 
ents who  started  me  in  this  line.  I 
think  it  was  owing  to  my  parentage, 
my  kindred,  and  my  surroundings  that 


I  became  religious.  I  have  the  very 
highest  regard  for  religion,  and  for 
religious  people.  I  have  made  this  sub- 
ject the  study  of  my  life,  and  the  more 
I  have  investigated  the  Gospel  as  it  has 
been  restored  to  us,  the  more  satisfying 
it  has  been  to  me.  Very  early  in  child- 
hood I  heard  the  voice  of  that  great 
man,  Joseph  Smith,  and  although  I  was 
young  his  words  penetrated  my  heart. 
I  believed  them,  I  have  believed  them 
ever  since,  I  shall  always  believe  them. 
I  can  express  my  thankfulness  for  these 
happy  and  blessed  surroundings  which 
have  caused  these  earnest  reflections. 
I  have  not  only  investigated  the  faith 
that  was  delivered  to  me  by  my  par- 
ents, but  I  have  investigated  all  faiths, 
so  far  as  I  have  had  opportunity.  I 
respect  all  religious  people,  but  I  do  not 
respect  hypocritical  people.  I  respect 
every  sincere  person  who  has  faith  in 
God.  I  could  never  persecute  any  one 
for  the  matter  of  conscience.  I  regard 
the  unbeliever  as  the  most  unfortu- 
nate of  men.  In  my  reflections,  it  has 
seemed  to  me  that  even  idolatry  is  more 
to  be  preferred  than  infidelity.  I  believe 
that  the  natural  man  is  prone  to  seek 
his  Creator;  I  believe  that  is  a  natur- 
al and  a  proper  impulse,  and  those  who 
disregard  these  higher  promptings,  are 
the  unnatural  and  the  abnormal.  This 
is  the  result  of  my  reflections.  I  be- 
lieve in  the  interposition  of  Divine 
Providence  in  the  affairs  of  men.  I  be- 
lieve that  He  guides  the  destinies  of 
peoples  and  of  individuals,  I  therefor^ 
am  encouraged  to  seek  Him  in  prayer.. 
I- offer  Him  my  acknowledgements.  1 
do  so,  not  only  as  a  matter  of  duty, 
but  as  a  matter  of  the  highest  privilege- 
I  have  endeavored  in  all  my  life  to  be 
exemplary.  It  is  a  consolation  that  I 
have  that  no  human  being,  I  trust,  is 
worse  for  my  example.  Brethren  and 
sisters  I  rejoice  very  much  in  this  great 
cause.  I  know  that  it  is  of  God.  I 
feel  it  will  go  on  to  success,  to  pros- 
perity, and  to  triumph,  and  that  the 
nations  of  the  earth  will  yet  bless  the 
name  of  Joseph  Smith,  and  also  hold 
in  high  estimation  the  Saints  of  latter 
days.  May  the  Lord  add  His  blessings 
to  all  our  labors,  and  may  we  be  faith- 
ful in  all  things.  Amen. 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Sister  Olea  Shipp  then  sang,  "The 
Bright  Beyond." 

ELDER  GEORGE  A.  SMITH. 

Men  In  all  dispensations  have  rejected  revelations 
from  God  —  Responsibility  o£  c  '''ducting  the 
work  of  the  Father  rests  upon  the  Saints  as  a 
whole — Sublime  position  taken  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  esteem  it 
a  privilege  and  an  honor  to  be  called 
upon  to  occupy  this  position,  and  while 
I  do  so,  I  trust  I  may  be  inspired  of 
our  Heavenly  Father,  that  the  words 
I  utter  may  be  words  of  instruction 
and  edification  to  all  of  us.  I  have 
enjoyed  the  spirit  of  this  conference, 
and  have  been  edified  by  the  remarks 
of  the  brethren  who  have  been  called 
upon  to  address  us.  It  is  an  ftispiratic 
to  one  who  loves  this  latter-day  work 
to  look  into  the  faces  of  a  large  con- 
gregation such  as  this.  It  inspires  him 
with  additional  love  of  the  work  that 
our.  Father  in  heaven  has  given  to  the 
earth  in  the  day  and  age  in  which  we 
live.  When  we  realize  that  this  is  but 
a  representation  of  the  people  who  are 
members  of  the  Church,  that  we  come 
htre  semi-annually  to  receive  instruc- 
tion, and  that  the  words  of  life  and  sal- 
vation which  flow  from  the  servants 
of  God  here  ,arei  disseminated  through- 
out the  world,  and  are  also  communi- 
cated to  the  children  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  by  the  newspapers  and 
those  who  come  to  conference,  we  can 
comprehend  to  some  extent  the  far- 
reaching  influence  of  these  gatherings. 

We  are  considered  by  the  world  a 
peculiar  people.  By  the  unbeliever, 
the  members  of  the  Church  of  Christ 
in  all  ages  of  the  world  have  been 
considered  a  peculiar  people.  When 
the  Lord  has  spoken  through  His  serv- 
ants, there  have  been  at  different  peri- 
ods of  time  people  in  the  earth  who 
have  said,  "I  do  not  believe  in  reve- 
lation." This  age  is  no  exception  to 
the  rule.  The  thousands,  aye,  the  mil- 
liens,  of  our  Father's  children  who 
live  in  the  earth  are  but  repeating  the 
history  of  the  past  when  they  deny 
that  God  has  revealed  again  His  will 
to  the  children  of  men,  and  say  that 
they  have  no  need  of  any  further  reve- 


lation.   To  demonstrate  this  we  may 
refer  to  the  experiences  of  the  people  in 
the  days  of  Noah.    Noah  was  a  prophet 
of  the  living  God,  inspired  with  a  de- 
sire to  save  the  souls  of  the  children  of 
men.    He  had  no  disposition  to  destroy 
those  who  lived  around  him,  but,  re- 
ceiving a     commandment     from  our 
Father  in  heaven,  he  warned  the  people 
to  repent  of  their  evil  ways,  and  de- 
clared   that    unless   they   did  repent, 
destruction     would     follow    and  our 
Heavenly   Father   would     visit  them 
with  His  displeasure.    What  was  the 
result?     They   said   to  Noah,  "What 
right  have  you  to  instruct  us?  Who 
are  you  that  you  come  and  speak  to 
us  in  the  name  of  the  Lord?    You  are 
only  a  man  like  other  men."  And-they 
rejected  his  testimony,  not  because  it 
was  untrue,   but  because  they  would 
not  believe  it,  not  possessing  the  spirit 
which   he  possessed.     Then  the  Lord 
told  him  to  build  an  ark,  and  to  gather 
therein  those  who  believed  his  message, 
and  then  He  would  visit  His  displeasure 
upon  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth.  It 
was  not  because  Noah  had  said  these 
things  that  the  deluge  came;   it  was 
because  Almighty     God    had  spoken 
through  him  to  the  people.    When  our 
Father  in  heaven  speaks  to  the  world, 
no  matter  how  feeble  or  weak  the  serv- 
ant may  be  who  carries  the  message, 
that  word  will  be  vindicated,  even  if  it 
involves  the  destruction  of  many  souls. 
You  no  doubt  remember  the  experience 
of  Jonah  when  he  was  called  to  warn 
the  people  of  Nineveh.    Our  Father  in 
heaven  commanded  him  to  go  and  call 
them  to  repentance.    He  tried  to  avoid 
this  responsibility,  and  it  resulted  in 
his  being  thrown  into  the  ocean.  But 
the  same  power  that  had  called  him 
to  this  mission  preserved  his  life,  and 
rebuked  him.  for  avoiding  what  was  his 
plain  duty.    Then  he  went  and  warned 
the  people  of  Nineveh,  and  they  repent- 
ed  in  sackcloth  and  ashes.    You  will 
remember  the  Lord   promised  that  if 
they  did  not  repent  they  would  be  pun- 
ished;   but   they   did   repent,   and  He 
removed     from    them   the   curse  that 
otherwise  would  have  been  visited  up- 
on  them   for   the   violation — of  what? 


EL.DE  R   GEORGE   A.  SMITH. 


63 


Not  because  they  failed  to  listen  to 
Jonah  as  a  man,  but  because  they  fail- 
ed to.  heed  Jonah,  the  prophet  of  God. 
And  when  they  did  listen  to  the  voice 
of  the  Lord  through  that  inspired  man, 
they  received  a  blessing-  instead  of  a 
cursing. 

When  our  Savior  in  humility  came 
upon  earth,  the  people  said,  "Who  are 
you,  that  you  should  claim  to  be  th^ 
Son  of  God?    We  know  your  father;  he 
is  Joseph,   the  carpenter.      We  know 
your  mother;  she  is  Mary.     We  have 
Moses  and  Abraham  for  our  prophets, 
and  we  have  no  need  of  a  man  like 
you  to  come  and  speak  to  us  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord."     He  went  among 
them  and  ministered  to  the  sick,  healed 
the    afflicted,    unstopped   the    ears  of 
the  deaf,  restored  the  blind  to  sight, 
cleansed  the  leper  by  His  magic  touch, 
raised  the  dead    to    life.     Then  they 
said  He  performed      these  wondrous 
works  by  the  power  of  Beelzebub.  Yet 
He  was  indeed  the  Son  of  God.     He  la- 
bored among  them  in  love  and  kind- 
ness; but  they  cast    His  name  out  as 
evil.      They  even  cast  reproach  upon 
the  city  from  which  He  came,  and  said, 
"Can  any  good  thing  come  out  of  Na- 
zareth?"   But  He  was  the  Son  of  God, 
and  He  did  have  the  right  to  speak  in 
the  name  of  the  Father.      The  truths 
He  brought  to  the  earth   came  from 
the   Father;    and   though   they  nailed 
Him  to  the  cross,  though  they  placed 
upon  His  head   the  plaited  crown  of 
thorns,  and  put  the  mock  scepter  in 
His   hands,    though    they    spilled  His 
blood  with  the  cruel     spear,  yet  the 
word  that  He  delivered  to  them  was  the 
word  of  the  Lord,  and  He  was  indeed 
the  Son  of  God. 

The  same,  feeling  that  was  en- 
tertained, to  some  extent,  against 
the  Savior  has  continued  in  the 
earth  People  who  do  not  under- 
stand the  things  of  God  because  they 
have  not  the  Spirit  of  God,  reviled  and 
cast  them  out  as  evil,  when  in  fact  the 
evil  is  in  themselves.  But  the  promis- 
es made  by  the  Savior  to  His  Apostles 
when  He  said,  "Go  ye  into  all  the  world 
and  preach  the  Gosoel  unto  every 
creature.   He  that  believeth  and  is  bap- 


tized shall  be  saved,"  have  been  veri- 
fied upon  the  children  of  men,  when 
they  have  complied  with  that  require- 
ment under  the  ministration  of  au- 
thorized servants  of  God.    In  the  wis- 
dom of  our    Father,    He    revealed  in 
the  olden  times  that  the  Gospel  would 
be  taken  away.    He  revealed  in  the 
time  of  Daniel,  by  means  of  a  dream, 
that  in  the  days  of  certain  kings  He 
would  set  up  His  kingdom,  and  that  it 
would  not  be  taken  away  or  given  to 
another  people.     He  revealed  to  John, 
upon  the  Isle  of  Patmos,  that  an  angel 
would    fly    in    the    midst  of  heaven, 
having    the     everlasting     Gospel  t<5 
preach  to   men  that  dwell  upon  the 
earth.     Other  prophets  also  prophesied 
concerning  the  day  in  which  we  live. 
In  fulfillment  of  these  predictions,  our 
Heavenly  Father,  in  the  century  that 
is  just  passed,  chose  and  commissioned 
Joseph  Smith,  as  He  had  done  other 
prophets,  to  go  forth  among  the  people 
and  speak  in  the  name  of  the  Lord. 
Through  this  humble  instrument,  the 
Gospel  was  restored  to  the  earth  again 
and  he  preached  the    same  doctrines 
that  our  Savior  taught  while  He  was 
upon  the  earth.     Under  the  Lord  s  di- 
rection,   he   organized   the   Church  of 
Christ,  with  apostles,  prophets,  pastors, 
teachers,     evangelists,     etc.,     as  the 
Church  should  be  organized,  to  con- 
tinue thus  until  all  should  come  to  a 
unity  of  the  faith.     He  ministered  unto 
the  people,  he  healed  the   sick;  he 
loved  the  souls  of  the  children  of  men. 
But  as  had  been  the  case  with  prophets 
whom  the  Lord  had  raised  up  before 
it  seemed  necessary  in  this  case  that 
the  testimony  of  His  servant  should  be. 
sealed  with  his  life's  blood.     No  more 
pathetic  page  will  be  found  in  the  his- 
tory of  the  world  than  that  upon  which 
is  inscribed  the  last  sayings  of  our  be- 
loved   Prophet    Joseph      Smith.  He 
knew  that  his  time  was  near  at  hand; 
he  realized  that  his  life's  mission  had 
been  fulfilled.     He  had  given  the  keys 
for  the  gifts  and  blessings  of  God  unto 
the  people,  and"  the  Father  had  con- 
tinued to  bless  him;  finally  he  realized 
that  his  labor  was  about  done.  You 
remember  when  he  was  first  raised  up 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


how  the  people  of  this  country  said, 
"We  have  no  need  of  you.  You  are 
Joseph,  the  son  of  Joseph,  and  we 
know  where  you  come  from.  You  are 
not  a  strong-  and  mighty  man,  and  you 
do  not  come  from  an  influential  family. 
We  have  no  need  of  new  revelation. 
We  have  the  Bible,  and  that  is  all  that 
is  necessary  for  the  salvation  of  the 
children  of  men."  Joseph  Smith  per- 
formed his  mission;  and  when  the  time 
came  that  he  was  face  to  face  with 
death,  he  said,  "I  am  going-  like  a  lamb 
to  the  slaughter,  but  I  am  calm  as  a 
summer  morning.  I  have  a  conscience 
void  of  offence  toward  God  and  toward 
all  men.  If  they  take  my  life,  I  shall 
die  an  innocent  man,  and  my  blood 
shall  cry  from  the  ground  for  venege- 
ance,  and  it  shall  yet  be  said  of  me,  'He 
was  murdered  in  cold  blood.'  " 
He  was  not  afraid  to  stand  be- 
fore the  pleasing  bar  of  our  Father  in 
heaven  and  answer  for  the  deeds  done 
in  the  body.  He  was  not  afraid  to 
meet  the  charge  that  had  been  made 
against  him,  that  he  was  decieving  the 
people  and  dealing  unjustly  with  them. 
He  was  not  afraid  of  the  result  of  his 
life's  mission,  and  of  the  final  triumph 
of  the  work  which  he  knew  was  of  divine 
origin,  and  for  which  he  gave  his  life. 
Yet  the  people  of  the  world,  as  before, 
judge  this  work  by  the  spirit  of  man. 
They  do  not  have  the  Spirit  of  God, 
which  would  enable  them  to  under- 
stand that  it  came  from  our  Father  in 
heaven. 

Now,  my  brethern  and  sisters,  the 
commission  that  came  to  Joseph  Smith, 
the  boy  prophet,  has  been  given  to  you. 
"Go,  preach  the  Gospel  in  the  nations 
of  the  earth."  The  same  authority  that 
he  had  has  been  conferred  upon  your 
sons,  and  they  will  be  required  by  our 
Father  in  heaven  to  minister  in  the 
ordinances  of  the  Gospel.  The  respon- 
sibility that  came  to  Joseph  Smith  has 
not  been  lost  by  his  departure,  it  has 
fallen  upon  other  shoulders.  Our  Fa- 
ther in  heaven  has  raised  up  from 
time  to  time  those  who  have  had  the 
authority  to  speak  in  His  name,  to  ad- 
minister in  the  ordinances  of  the  Gos- 
pel, and  to  bless  the  children  of  men. 


They  have  shared  that  honor  with  you 
and  with  your  children.  The  responsi- 
bility for  the  conduct  of  this  work  does 
not  devolve  alone  upon  President  Jos- 
eph F.  Smith,  nor  upon  his  counselors, 
nor  upon  the  quorum  of  the  Apostles; 
but  it  devolves  also  upon  every  man 
and  woman  who  has  been  baptized  by 
the  servants  of  God  and  become  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  Every  man  who  has 
received  the  Priesthood  must  set  hia 
house  in  order,  and  so  conduct  his  life 
that  men,  seeing  his  good  works,  may 
glorify  our  Father  which  is  in  heaven. 
We  cannot  shift  the  responsibility  if 
we  would;  our  Father  has  placed  it  up- 
on our  shoulders,  and  we  must  round 
them  up  and  help  to  carry  it  off  tri- 
umphant. When  I  look  at  large  con- 
gregations of  the  Saints,  such  as  we 
beheld  last  Sunday,  this  building  filled 
to  overflowing,  the  Assembly  Hall  and 
adjoining  grounds  also  filled  with  mul- 
titudes of  people,  many  of  them  sons 
and  daughters  of  the  sturdy  pioneers 
who  in  early  days  came  into  this  west- 
ern country,  or  went  into  foreign  na- 
tions of  the  earth  and  preached  the 
Gospel,  I  cannot  help  but  rejoice.  Grate- 
ful should  we  be,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  our  hearts  have  been  attuned 
to  the  Gospel's  harmony.  Grateful 
should  we  be  that  our  Father  in  hea- 
ven has  given  us  a  testimony  of  the  di- 
vinity of  this  work;  and  it  should  be 
our  life's  labor  to  so  conduct  ourselves 
that  we  will  not  bring  reproach  upon 
it.  Those  who  are  beginning  to  pass 
the  meridian  of  life,  those  gray-haired 
men  and  women  who  sit  before  me  to- 
day, who  have  borne  the  burden  in  the 
heat  of  the  day,  who  came  into  this 
country  when  it  was  a  howling  wilder- 
ness, have  received  from  our  Heavenly 
Father  a  testimony  that  burns  in  their 
hearts,  and  they  know,  as  they  know 
that  they  live,  that  the  Gospel  is  true. 
And  this  same  blessing  has  been  given 
to  their  children  when  those  children 
have  sought  it.  Our  Father  in  heaven 
has  promised  all  His  children  that  they 
will  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be 
of  God  or  of  man,  if  they  will  have 

faith  anrl   nnmnlv  witVi   tVi^  nrrHtion^oo 


ELDER  GEORGE  A.  SMITH. 


65 


Now,  to  those  who  are  younger  in  this 
congregation  let  me  say:  Not  very 
many  years  hence  your  fathers  and 
mothers  will  go  back  to  receive  the  re- 
ward of  their  faithful  labors.'  I  plead 
with  you,  boys  and  girls  of  Israel,  to 
honor  the  names  that  you  bear;  love 
and  revere  the  parents  God  has  given 
you,  and  so  conduct  your  lives  that 
day  by  day  you  will  give  them  joy  in 
their  declining  years.  If  you  will  do 
this  the  same  firm  testimony  that  has 
been  given  to  them  will  be  bestowed 
upon  you,  and  your  sons  and  daughters 
in  due  time  will  be  found  numbered 
with  the  Saints  of  God,  valiant  for  the 
cause  of  truth,  and  the  dissemination 
of  the  Gospel  in  the  nations  of  the 
earth.  We  need  not  fear  the  wrath  of 
the  adversary.  "We  need  not  fear  when 
men  speak  ill  of  us,  when  they  cast  out 
our  names  as  evil,  when  they  revile  us 
and  speak  of  us  falsely;  but  we  need 
to  fear  when  the  power  of  the  adver- 
sary is  arrayed  against  us  if  we  have 
done  that  which  is  wrong.  Our  Father 
in  heaven  expects  us  to  live  up  to  the 
requirements  of  the  Gospel;  to  fear  Him 
and  keep  His  commandments. 

Now,  as  to  our  friends  who  are  not 
of  our  faith,  we  should  follow  the  ad- 
monition: pray  for  those  who  persecute 
you,  and  despitefully  use  you.  Remem- 
ber that  you  have  a  testimony  of  this 
work,  which  they  have  not.  Some  day, 
when  we  all  present  ourselves, as  we  ex- 
pect to  do,  before  the  bar  of  God  to 
answer  for  the  deeds  done  in  the  body, 
then  will  our  brothers  and  sisters  of 
the  world,  who  now  think  we  are  delud- 
ed and  mistaken,  find  that  our  lives 
have  been  spent  for  the  salvation  of 
their  souls,  that  our  ministry  has  had 
in  it  only  love  and  kindness  for  our  fel- 
low men,  and  that  we  would  have  given 
unto  them  a  blessing  had  they  been 
willing  to  receive  it.  Let  us  love  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ;  let  us  comply 
with  the  requirements  our  Father  has 
made  of  us;  and  then  when  we  meet 
those  who  do  not  understand  us,  there 
will  emanate  from  us  a  spirit  that  will 
testify  to  them  we  are  sincere  in  the 
work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  Tour 


boys  and  girls  are  scattered  among  the 
nations  of  the  earth  preaching  this  gos- 
pel; there  is  no  confusion  with  them; 
they  understand  it  as  you  understand 
it.  It  is  the  same  Gospel  wherever  it  is 
taught,  and  it  is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  I  bear  you  my  testimony  today 
that  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salva- 
tion, unto  every  one  that  will  believe 
and  obey.  May  we  so  conduct  our  lives 
that  our  Father  in  heaven  will  preserve 
us  from  the  attacks  of  those  who  mis- 
understand us;  and  that  our  brothers 
and  sisters  of  the  world  may  be  con- 
strained to  acknowledge  we  are  a  good 
people,  because  we  do  good  to  our  fel- 
low men.  May  we  so  conduct  our  lives 
that  the  children  our  Father  shall  bless 
us  with  may,  by  reason  of  the  righteous 
teachings  and  the  good  example  we  give 
unto  them,,  rise  up  and  call  us  blessed. 
When  the  time  shall  come  that  we  shall 
all  be  called  to  present  ourselves  before 
our  Father  in  heaven  to  give  an  account 
for  our  actions  here,  may  it  be  said  of 
us  that  the  world  was  better  for  our 
having  lived  in  it,  that  we  never 
harmed  one  of  our  Father's  creatures, 
that  we  sustained  the  hands  of  His 
servants,  that  we  understood  the  spirit 
of  revelation,  and  that  we  listened  to  it 
as  it  came  from  God  to  His  servants. 
My  prayer  is  that  our  lives  may  reflect 
the  purity  of  the  Gospel,  that  our  homes 
may  be  the  abode  of  the  Spirit  of  our 
Father  in  heaven,  that  our  every  action 
may  be  scanned  in  vain  for  any  evil, 
and  that  when  men  shall  look  over  our 
lives,  they  may  be  led  to  say  we  are 
consistent  followers  of  the  meek  and 
lowly  Nazarene.  In  the  end,  when  our 
labors  are  complete.may  we  receive  from 
our  Father,  who  reigns  supreme  in  the 
heavens,  that  welcome  plaudit,  'Well 
done,  good  and  faithful  servant,  you 
have  been  faithful  in  a  few  things, 
and  I  will  make  you  ruler  over  many. 
Enter  into  the  joy  of  your  Lord,"  is  my 
prayer  for  Israel,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 
The  choir  sang: 

"Guide  us,  O  Thou  great  Jehovah, 
Saints  unto  the  promised  land." 

Benediction  by  J.  Golden  Kimball. 


06 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


CLOSING  SESSION. 

"Wednesday,  April  6,  2  p.  m. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

'We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet,, 
To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days." 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
Andrew  Jenson. 

The  choir  then  sang: 

"Though  in  the  outward  Church  below 
The  wheat  and  tares  together  grow." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN. 

In  standing  before  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  this  afternoon,  to  bear  my 
testimony  to  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  as  it  has  been  revealed  in 
the  age  of  the  world  in  which  we  are 
living,  I  sincerely  pray  that  I  may  be 
supported  by  the  inspiration  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  that  the  #few  words 
I  speak  upon  this  occasion  may  be 
words  of  truth,  directed  by  the  Spirit 
of  Truth,  for  the  benefit,  advantage, 
and  encouragement  of  this  vast  congre- 
gation. My  heart  has  been  filled  with 
exceeding  great  joy  in  listening  to  the 
testimonies  that  have  been  borne  by 
the  various  speakers  who  have  ad- 
dressed the  people  from  day  to  day  in 
our  Conference  meetings.  My  soul  has 
been  filled  with  thankfulness,  not  only 
during  this  Conference,  but  in  travel- 
ing from  place  to  place  among  the  peo- 
ple, in  attending  stake  conferences,  in 
meeting  with  the  quorums  of  Seventy, 
in  observing,  as  we  have  no  doubt  ob- 
served in  this  Conference,  that  there  are 
many  young  men  occupying  responsible 
positions  in  the  midst  of  the  people  of 
the  Lord.  I  have  noted  that  many  of 
the  brethren  who  have  stood  here  to 
make  reports  concerning  the  stakes  of 
Zion,  and  to  speak  about  other  matters, 
are  the  sons  of  men  who  have  been  vali- 
ant for  the  truth  in  days  gone  by.  In 
the  organization  of  the  new  Stakes  of 
Zion,  recently  effected  in  this  city,  many 
of  the  brethren  who  have  been  called  to 
positions  of  responsibility  in  these 
stakes  are  the  sons  of  men  who  in  their 
time  have  been  faithful  to  the  Lord. 

I  believe  we  all  find  happiness  in  wit- 
nessing conditions  of  this  character, 
and  in  having  the  truth  burned  into  our 
souls  that  our  Father  in  heaven  is 


blessing  the  children  of  the  pioneers, 
and  of  other  men  and  women  who  re- 
ceived the  Gospel  a  long  time  ago,  and. 
gathered  from  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
and  that  He  is  establishing  them  in 
the  faith.  I  rejoice  in  the  testimonies  of 
the  brethren  in  relation  to  this  mat- 
ter. Some  of  the  speakers  have  ex- 
pressed very  great  confidence  that  the 
youth  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  would 
be  found  in  the  future  true  to  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  and  to  the  faith  of 
their  fathers,  and  that  they  were  not, 
and  could  not,  be-  weaned  away  from 
the  truth.  I  believe  this  with  all  my 
heart.  I  believe  it  is  the  decree  of  the 
Almighty  that  this  condition  shall  con- 
tinue to  prevail  in  the  midst  of  His  peo- 
ple, and  that  there  will  always  be  found 
in  the  Church  the  seed  of  the  founders, 
and  of  others  who  have  been  valiant  for 
the  testimony  of  Jesus — children  who 
will  properly  represent  their  parents 
before  the  people  and  before  the  Lord; 
and  that  it  is  not  the  intention  for  thi^ 
work  to  be  taken  from  them  and  given 
to  another  people.  I  have  felt  impressed 
myself  with  the  promise  of  God  in  re- 
lation to  the  continuation  of  His  work 
with  the  people  who  were  called  in  the 
beginning.  In  that  promise,  as  it  ap- 
peals to  me,  there  is  an  understanding 
that  there  would  be  raised  up,  from 
the  loins  of  those  to  whom  the  promise 
was  made  in  the  beginning,  sons  and 
daughters  who  would  be  true  and  faith- 
ful. It  is  true  that  power  is  not  given 
to  man  to  reveal  a  knowledge  of  the 
plan  of  salvation  to  his  own  offspring. 
The  President  of  the  Church,  the  Apos- 
tles, let  them  be  ever  so  faithful,  do 
not  possess  the  power  to  reveal  unto 
their  children  the  truth  of  the  everlast- 
ing Gospel.  I  suppose  if  this  power1 
were  vested  in  them  there  would  be 
danger  of  the  time  coming  when  the 
children  might  be  recreant  to  the  faith 
of  their  fathers.  But  when  the  truth  of 
the  Gospel  is  revealed  to  any  soul,  it 
does  not  come  from  man,  it  comes 
through  the  operation  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
from  our  Father  in  heaven.  It  comes 
with  almierhty  power;  it  dispels  all 
doubt;  it  establishes  the  one  who  re- 
ceives the  evidence  in  an  understanding 
of  the  truth  of  the  things  of  God.  In 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN. 


67 


this  way  the  testimony  of  the  Gospel 
has  come  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  In 
the  beginning,  when  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith  bore  the  wonderful  record 
that  he  did  to  the  people  concerning  the 
visitation  of  holy  beings,  it  was  by  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and  not  by  the 
wisdom  or  logic  of  the  Prophet  that  the 
truth  of  his  testimony  was  impressed 
upon  the  minds  of  the  men  who  accept- 
ed it,  and  who  remained  true  all  the 
days  of  their  lives.  "We  cannot  believe 
that  it  was  by  a  mere  chance  that  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  the  early  rise 
of  the  Church  was  brought  in  contact 
with  such  men  as  Brigham  Young,  John 
Taylor,  Wilford  Woodruff,  Lorenzo 
Snow,  Heber  C.  Kimball,  Daniel  H. 
Wells,  Parley  P.  Pratt,  Orson  Pratt, 
and  other  great  men  who  were  raised 
up  by  the  power  of  God  to  assist  in  the 
establishment  of  His  purposes.  We  be- 
lieve, as  a  people,  that  our  Father  un- 
derstands the  end  from  the  beginning. 
"We  believe  that  He  is  in  very  deed  our 
Father  in  heaven;  that  we  existed  with 
Him  in  a  spiritual  condition  before  we 
were  born  naturally  upon  the  earth, 
and  that  He  knew  us,  and  all  His  other 
children,  before  we  came  to  this  earth. 
"We  believe  He  was  acquainted  with 
the  spirits  of  the  great  men  who  as- 
sisted in  laying  the  foundations  of  His 
grand  latter-day  work,  and  that  by 
His  decree  and  appointment  they  were 
born  into  the  world  at  the  time  when 
their  services  were  needed  in  the  estab- 
lishment of  His  purposes.  They  were 
brought  by  the  same  overruling  provi- 
dence into  contact  with  the  noble  man 
who  had  been  raised  from  the  ranks  of 
the  people  to  bear  divine  authority,  and 
to  represent  the  Lord  God  of  heaven 
in  the  midst  of  the  nations,  and  they 
gladly  received  the  testimony  which 
was  delivered  to  them  concerning  the 
faith.  "While  we  believe  this  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  of  his  as- 
sociates, we  believe  that  the  same 
power  is  in  operation  today.  We  be- 
lieve that  the  spirits  of  men  are  being 
born  into  the  world  by  divine  appoint- 
ment, and  not  by  accident.  Because 
of  this  belief,  I  feel  in  my  heart  that, 
through  the  faithfulness  of  the  fathers 
and  mothers  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 


Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  there  will 
continue  to  come  to  them  choice  spirits, 
who  will  accept  the  truth  with  all  their 
hearts,  and  who  will  bear  the  respon- 
sibilities of  this  work  in  which  we  are 
engaged  in  all  time  to  come.    I  do  not 
believe  that  the  names  of  the  valiant 
and   faithful  men  of  this  Church  of 
either  high  or  low  degree  are  to  become 
extinct  from  among  the  people  of  God. 
I  believe  with  all  my  soul  that  they 
will  be  perpetuated  forever,  just  as  we 
see  the  sons  of  men  whom  we  have 
known  in  past  history  stand  upon  this 
platform,  filled  with  the  Spirit  of  the 
living  God,  bearing  testimony  to  the 
truth  of  the  everlasting  Gospel,  so  in 
a  time  to  come  will  their  sons  and 
daughters,  from  generation  to  genera- 
tion stand  up  in  the  midst  of  the  con- 
gregations of  Israel  and  bear  record  of 
the  truth  as  it  has  been  revealed.  God 
has  not  brought  us  through  the  trying 
experiences  of  the  past;   He  has  not 
tested  our  fathers  and  our  mothers  in 
the  manner  in  which  they  have  been 
tested,  with  a  view  of  rewarding  them 
with  offspring  that  will  not  be  true  to 
Him.   There  may  be  wayward  boys  and 
girls;  there  may  be  some  who  cannot 
be  controlled;  but  I  believe  there  will 
be  but  few  who  will  be  lost.    "We  dis- 
cover among  the  people  who  have  gath- 
ered from  the  nations  of  the  world  that 
there  is  within  them  a  love  for  the  land 
that  gave  them  birth.    From  whatever 
land  they  have  come,  though  they  have 
been  led  to  forsake  all  and  gather  up 
to  Zion,  because  of  the  Gospel,  never- 
theless there  is  a  love  in  their  hearts 
for  their  native  country,   which  does 
not  die  out.    In  like  manner  I  believe, 
from  the  experiences  that  have  come 
to  me,  that  there  is  a  love  for  Zion 
and  for  the  things  of  the  kingdom  of 
God  planted  in  the  hearts   of  those 
who  are  born  in  the  Church  that  is  very 
much  stronger  than  this  love  of  coun- 
try, and  that  it  is  almost  impossible 
for  men  to  divest  themselves  of  it.  In 
many  places  young  men  and  young 
women   are   found  who  have  strayed 
away  from  the  truth  to  some  extent; 
•who   have   gone   from   their  father's 
home  and  from  the  organized  wards  of 
the    Church;    but    wherever   they  are 


63 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


they  have  a  warm  feeling  toward  the 
work  of  God.  It  is  a  rare  thing  to 
find  a  young  man  or  a  young  woman 
who  has  been  born  in  the  Church  so 
cold  in  their  feelings  that  they  turn 
entirely  away  from  the  people  of  the 
Lord.  It  is  a  rare  thing  to  find  any 
so  hardened  that  they  will  not  open 
their  doors  to  receive  the  representa- 
tives of  the  Lord.  Because  of  this  feel- 
ing, and  because  of  the  valiant  young 
men  who  are  constantly  rising  up  in  the 
midst  of  Israel,  I  believe  that  we  will 
always  have  representatives  of  the 
founders  of  the  Church  of  Christ  to 
bear  the  authority  of  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood, and  to  bear  it  in  honor.  The 
glorious  example  that  has  been  set  by 
good  and  godly  parents  is  destined  to 
bear  good  fruit  forever.  I  believe  that 
there  is  something  in  being  born  in 
Zion.  It  has  been  stated  by  at  least 
one  of  the  prophets  that  the  time  was 
to  come  when  it  should  be  said  of  in- 
dividuals born  in  Zion,  that  "this  man 
was  born  in  Zion."  I  think  we  have 
occasion  as  parents  to  be  comforted 
and  encouraged,  and  that  we  have 
reason  to  have  confidence  in  our  chil- 
dren. I  believe  that,  by  the  blessing  of 
the  Lord  and  our  own  example  and 
training,  our  children  will  be  so  estab- 
lished in  the  faith  that  they  will  follow 
in  our  footsteps  just  as  we  are  follow- 
ing in  the  footsteps  of  our  parents. 

Let  us  take  to  heart  the  counsels 
that  have  been  imparted  unto  us.  Let 
us  set  gfoodly  examples  before  our 
offspring.  Let  us  live  the  religion  we 
have  espoused,  and  let  our  light  shine 
among  men.  Let  them  see  that  we  feel 
the  responsibility  which  rests  upon  ua 
in  the  revelation  of  the  Gospel; 
that  we  propose,  not  only  to  send 
missionaries  abroad  to  preach  the 
Gospel,  but  that  we  propose  to  live 
our  religion  at  home  just  as  well 
as  our  representatives  do  abroad;  and 
men  and  women  who  come  into  our  bor- 
ders, as  has  often  been  the  case  al- 
ready, will  be  so  impressed  with  our  so- 
briety, our  industry,  our  good  example 
and  the  godly  lives  we  lead  that  they 
will  be  constrained  to  bear  record  that 
there  is  a  splendid  people  in  the  midst 


of  these  mountains — a  people  who  fear 
God  and  keep  His  commandments.  In 
a  time  to  come  we  will  be  better  under- 
stood. The  clouds  that  have  hung  over 
us,  caused  by  misrepresentation,  will  be 
banished  away.  There  is  no  power  that 
can  prevent  this;  for  God  Himself  has 
decreed  He  will  lift  His  people  up; 
that  they  shall  be  like  unto  a.  light  set 
upon  a  hill,  which  cannot  be  hid;  and 
we  will  be  known  as  we  are.  "When  we 
are  known  as  we  are,  then  the  reputa- 
tion that  has  gone  abroad  concerning 
us  through  misrepresentation  will  pass 
away  forever,  and  we  will  be  recognized 
as  the  people  of  the  Lord,  as  a  people 
who  love  their  fellowmen,  and  who 
have  had  the  message  of  truth  commit- 
ted to  them,  even  the  power  of  the 
everlasting  Gospel  which  can  save  to 
the  uttermost  all  men  in  every  land 
and  clime. 

I  bear  record  to  the  truth  of  the  Gos- 
pel. I  bear  record  to  the  integrity,  the 
honor,  the  uprightness  and  the  nobility 
of  the  men  who  preside  over  us.  I 
bear  testimony  to  the  glorious  fact  that 
with  us  there  is  divine  authority.  Let 
the  world  say  what  it  may,  truth  is 
truth,  and  the  truth  in  relation  to  this 
matter  is  that  God  has  spoken,  and 
has  given  to  man  His  authority,  and 
in  the  exercise  of  that  power  we  will 
cry,  "peace  on  earth,  good  will  to  men," 
and  we  will  preach  the  doctrines  of  the 
Gospel,  administer  its  holy  ordinances 
to  those  who  believe,  and  save  the  chil- 
dren of  men  in  the  way  appointed  of 
the  Father.  May  God  help  us  to  be 
true  and  faithful,  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  in  the 
splendid  testimonies  that  have  been 
borne  of  its  divine  truth  during  this 
conference.  I  am  sure  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  must  feel  greatly  strength- 
ened in  their  testimonies  by  naving  at- 
tended the  meetings  of  this  conference, 
for  truly  there  has  been  an  outpouring 
of  the  Spirit  of  God  upon  His  people. 
As  I  look  before  me  upon  this  vast  con- 
gregation, gathered    here    upon  this 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 


69 


Wednesday  afternoon,  it  is  almost  mar- 
velous to  see  so  many  faces,  and  all  in- 
tent upon  receiving  the  word  of  God 
as  it  shall  be  spoken*  unto  them.  I 
have  prayed  earnestly  in  my  neart  that 
the  people  might  be  fed  the  bread  of 
life,  that  their  testimonies  might  be 
strengthened,  and  that  they  might 
come  to  an  absolute  knowledge  of  the 
truthfulness  of  this  work  in  which  we 
are  engaged.  I  do  not  think  it  possi- 
ble for  us  to  pay  too  much  attention 
to  the  importance  of  having  an  individ- 
ual testimony  of  the  Gospel.  Every  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  has  the  utmost  need  to 
know  for  himself  that  this  is  the  work 
of  the  Lord,  and  to  know  that  God  has 
spoken  again  in  this  day  and  conferred 
upon  men  His  divine  authority.  We 
read  in  the  scriptures,  and  have  been 
told  from  time  to  time,  that  the  Lord 
will  have  a  tried  people.  The  only  thing 
that  will  enable  the  people  to  withstand 
the  trials  that  may  come  upon  them  will 
be  the  knowledge  which  they  have  that 
this  is  the  work  of  God.  When  that 
knowledge  has  taken  root  in  their 
hearts,  the  storms  of  adversity  and 
great  calamities  may  come,  but 
they  will  stand  firm  and  im- 
movable because  their,  faith  will 
be  founded  upon  the  rock  of  reve- 
lation. We  have  just  been  told  that  no 
father  or  mother  can  reveal  to  their 
children  the  truthfulness  of  the  Gos- 
pel. That  is  true;  but  there  is  a  Father, 
whom  we  all  adore,  that  can  and  will 
reveal  it  to  us,  if  we  will  seek  after  it 
and  do  what  is  necessary  to  obtain  it. 
God  is  .uove.  He  loves  the  souls  of  the 
children  of  men,  and  we  are  His  child- 
ren and  have  inherited  from  Him  His 
divine  attributes.  There  should  be  born 
in  us  a  love  for  our  heavenly  Father. 
The  great  commandment,  which  in- 
cludes all  others,  is  this:  "Thou  shalt 
love  the  Lord,  thy  God,  with  all  thy 
heart,  with  all  thy  might,  and  with  all 
thy  soul."  And  there  is  another 
like  unto  it:  "Thou  shalt  love 
thy  neighbor  as  thyself."  If  the 
love  of  God  has  taken  root  in 
our  hearts,  and  if  we  are  de- 
monstrating in  our  lives  that  love,  it 
will  bear  fruit  and  will  cause  us  to  come 
to  a  knowledge    of    God,    whom  to 


know  is  life  eternal.  There  are  many 
people  professing  to  believe  in  Christ, 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  who,  never- 
theless, do  not  believe  in  this  vital  prin- 
ciple of  His  Gospel — the  principle  by 
which  Peter  knew  that  Jesus  was  the 
Christ.  They  have  rejected  that  prin- 
ciple, and  have  said  in  their  hearts  and 
with  their  lips  that  God  does  not  re- 
veal Himself  from  heaven.  They  do 
not  believe  in  the  principle  of  revela- 
tion; and  yet  it  is  the  principle  which 
gives  life  and  force,  and  without  it 
the  Church  of  Christ  cannot  exist  upon 
the  earth.  Not  only  does  this  principle 
pertain  to  the  leaders  of  the  people,  but 
it  extends  to  all  the  sons  and  daughters 
of  God  who  will  seek  to  obtain  a  knowl- 
edge of  His  divine  will.  We  can  all  have 
the  right  to  communication  with 
our  Father,  and  the  Scriptures  are  full 
of  promise!  that  if  we  will  ask  we  shall 
receive,  if  we  will  knock  the  door  shall 
be  opened  unto  us,  and  if  we  will  seek 
we  shall  find.  This  can  only  be  done 
through  the  operation  of  that  vital 
principle  of  revelation.  "For  no  man 
knoweth  the  things  of  God,  but  by  the 
Spirit  of  God,  which  is  in  him;"  and 
the  Spirit  of  God  is  the  spirit  of  reve- 
lation, which  issues  forth  from  the 
presence  of  the  Father  and  the  Son 
and  enters  into  the  being  of  all  those 
who  diligently  seek  them.  If  we  come 
to  the  knowledge  of  the  truth  it  must 
be  through  the  principle  of  revelation. 
We  must  know  that  God  will  listen  to 
our  prayers;  and  then  when  we  have 
trials  we  can  approach  Him  and  ask 
of  Him  wisdom,  with  the  full  assurance 
that  He  will  not  upbraid  or  censure  us, 
but  will  hearken  to  our  prayers  and 
answer  them  upon  our  heads.  I  know 
that  this  principle  is  true,  and  it  de- 
volves upon  us  to  gain  the  favor  of 
God.  Men  and  women  in  the  world 
are  seeking  more  the  favor  of  their  fel- 
low creatures,  and  if  they  can  obtain 
that  to  the  extent  that  they  can  be 
exalted  in  the  eyes  of  the  people,  that 
seems  to  be  more  their  ambition  than 
the  gaining  of  the  favor  of  God.  They 
are  more  ambitious  to  be  well  spoken 
of  by  their  fellow  men  than  they  are  to 
be  beloved  of  God  their  eternal  Father. 


70 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE. 


Hence  the  importance  of  learning  to 
keep  that  great  commandment  of  lov- 
ing the  Lord,  with  all  our  hearts.  What 
do  we  understand  by  loving  the  Lord 
with  all  our  hearts?  Is  it  the  function 
of  the  heart  to  love?  This  may  perhaps 
be  only  a  figure.  The  heart  is  an  or- 
gan of  the  body,  the  special  office  of 
which  is  to  pump  the  blood  in  the 
body,  causing  it  to  circulate  and  to  im- 
part life  and  vitality  to  every  part 
thereof.  The  hands  and  feet  are  gov- 
erned by  muscles,  and  they,  with  other 
members  of  the  body,  yield  implicit 
obedience  to  the  will  of  man.  We  go 
here  and  there,  from  one  place  to  an- 
other, at  the  dictation  of  the  mind,  the 
intelligent  part  of  man,  and  there  is 
perfect  harmony  in  the  operations  of 
the  body  in  obedience  to  the  will  of 
man.  But  not  so  with  the  heart.  Al- 
though governed  by  muscles  as  the 
hands  and  feet  are,  yet  it  is  not  sub- 
ject to  the  will  of  man.  We  labor  with 
our  hands,  and  we  may  employ  the 
muscles  of  the  body  in  various  activi- 
ties, and  as  the  night  comes  on  and  we 
lay  our  bodies  down  to  rest,  the  mus- 
cles relax  and  the  body  lies  dormant. 
No  so  with  the  heart.  It  beats  on,  and 
on,  throughout  the  night  as  the  day; 
and  when  that  heart  ceases  to  beat, 
then  life  is  gone.  The  mind  does  not 
control  the  heart.  It  does  not  say  to 
the  heart,  'beat  thou  on,"  or  'cease 
thou  now  to  beat."  The  heart  is  gov- 
erned by  a  higher  intelligence,  and 
when  the  voice  comes  from  Him,  "Cease 
thou  to  beat,"  that  son  or  daughter  is 
called  to  God.  So  that  when  the  Lord 
says,  "Son,  give  me  thine  heart,"  He 
asks  for  that  which  belongs  to  Him; 
and  when  He  requires  us  to  love  Him 
with  all  our  hearts  it  means  simply 
this:  that  we  should  love  Him  with  all 
our  life.  The  life-giving  power  of  man 
should  be  devoted  to  the  service  of 
God.  Whatever  may  be  our  occupation, 
everything  must  come  secondary  to  our 
allegiance  and  devotion  to  God,  who 
gave  us  life  and  being  upon  earth,  and 
by  whom  that  life  is  maintained.  It 
seems  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  if  we  would  keep  that  great  com- 
mandment and  love  the  Lord  with  all 
our  hearts,  then  would    our     feet  be 


planted  in  the  paths  of  safety  and  then, 
let  come  what  may,  we  are  founded 
upon  the  rock  and  we  will  be  able  to 
stand.  , 

I  have  a  testimony  that  this  is  the 
work  of  the  Lord  that  we  are  engaged 
in,  and  that  the  men  who  stand  at  the 
head,  and  whom  we  will  have  the  pleas- 
ure and  privilege  this  afternoon  of  sus- 
taining by  the  raising  of  our  hands, 
are  men  of  God,  called  of  Him  to  lead 
this  people.  The  prayers  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  should  be  united  in  asking 
our  Father  in  heaven  to  endow  them 
with  the  revelations  of  His  will,  that 
they. may  receive  the  mind  and  will  of 
God  concerning  His  people,  and  that 
we  may  be  ready  and  willing  at  all 
times  to  receive  their  counsels  and  to  be 
guided  in  our  lives  by  the  will  of  the 
Father.  This  is  my  prayer  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Sister  Lottie  Owen,  with  excellent 
effect,  then  sang,  "Entreat  Me  Not  to 
Leave  Thee." 

ELDER  C.  W.  PENROSE. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  esteem  it  a, 
privilege  and  a  blessing  to  have  the 
opportunity  of  bearing  my  testimony  in 
association  with  by  brethren  who  have 
spoken,  for  truly  I  can  say  I  know  this 
is  the  work  of  God.  I  know  it  in  every 
part  of  my  being.  I  feel  it  in  my 
physical  nature;  I  see  it  in  my  intel- 
lectual nature;  I  realize  it  in  my  spirit- 
ual nature;  for  I  have  been  baptized 
by  the  spirit  of  this  work,  not  only  in 
water,  but  by  the  Holy.  Ghost  and  by 
the  fire  of  the  Lord,  and  God  has  borne 
witness  to  my  soul  that  He  is  the  au- 
thor of  this  latter-day  work.  The 
sentiment  expressed  by  the  song  which 
our  sister  has  just  sung  for  us  is  the 
sentiment  of  my  heart.  All  my  inter- 
ests are  identified  with  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  This  people  shall  be  my  people; 
their  God  shall  be  my  God;  where  they 
go  I  want  to  go,  whether  it  be  in  this 
world  or  the  world  to  come.  With 
these  my  brethren  whom  I  love,  and 
whose  labors  I  recognize,  and  whose 
virtues  I  venerate.  I  want  to  be  as- 
sociated in  time  and  in  eternity.  My 
heart  has  rejoiced  with  a  fulness  of 
joy  during  this  conference.    From  the 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


71 


first  discourse  delivered  by  President 
Smith,  on  Sunday  morning:,  right  to 
the  present  time,  I  have  felt  the  pres- 
ence of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  I  know 
that  President  Smith's  words  were  in- 
spired by  that  Spirit,  and  our  breth- 
ren who  have  addressed  us  have  felt 
its  influence,  and  it  has  been  imparted 
from  them  to  the  congregation. 

I  have  not  words  to  express  the  joy 
and  gratitude  which  spring  up  in  my 
besom  in  contemplating  the  goodness 
of  G-od  to  me  from  my  boyhood  to 
the  present  time.  When  I  first  embrac- 
ed the  Gospel  I  received  a  testimony  of 
its  truth.  I  received  it  from  the 
Spirit  that  comes  from  on  high.  It 
entered  into  my  soul,  and  bore  witness 
to  me  in  every  part  of  my  existence 
that  God  is  the  author  of  this  work.  As 
time  has  rolled  on,  and  I  have  passed 
through  many  different  circumstances 
in  many  different  lands,  and  I  think 
of  how  God  has  preserved  me,  direct- 
ed me,  and  enlightened  me,  and  bless- 
ed my  testimony  to  others,  I  praise 
Him  this  afternoon  in  the  midst  of  the 
congregation.  I  feel  in  my  heart,  bless 
and  praise  the  Lord,  O  my  soul!  He  is 
my  God.  I  revere  and  adore  Him  as 
my  Father  and  my  King,  and  I  want  to 
be  obedient  to  him  and  to  serve  Him 
in  all  things. 

It  does  not  matter  where  or  how  my 
labors  may  be  directed,  I  desire  them 
to  be  in  the  interest  of  this  great  work 
which  our  Father  has  commenced.  This 
work  cannot  be  overcome  by  the  pow- 
ers of  evil,  nor  by  the  powers  of  the 
world;  neither  will  you  or  I  as  indi- 
viduals be  so  overcome  if  we  will 
hearken  to  the  testimonies  which  have 
been  delivered  to  us,  the  instructions 
which  are  imparted,  and  be  willing  to 
be  guided  by  that  authority  which  has 
come  down  from  God  out  of  heaven  in 
the  last  days  for  the  guidance  and 
salvation  of  the  children  of  men.  No 
feeling  of  rebellion  should  ever  rise  in 
our  hearts;  no  word  of  reproach  or 
improper  criticism  should  escape  our 
lips  in  regard  to  those  men  whom 
God  has  called  and  ordained,  and  whom 
we  sustain  by  our  uplifted  hands  when 
we  assemble  in  conference.  It  would 
be  a  good  thing  if  the  thoughts  of  our 


minds  and  the  words  of  our  mouths 
were  always  directed  for  the  interest 
and  the  furtherance  of  this  great  work 
that  our  Father  has)  begun.  We 
ought  not  to  speak  a  word  anywhere 
which  would  militate  against  it,  or 
against  the  men  whom  God  has  ap- 
pointed. 

I  think  sometimes  of  the  words 
of  the  Apostle  James  in  regard  to  the 
power  of  the  tongue.  What  good  can 
be  accomplished  by  using  the  powers 
of  speech  in  the  proper  direction!  What 
wrong  can  be  accomplished  when  these 
powers  are  prostituted  to  speak  evil. 
"Thou  shalt  not  speak  evil  of  the 
Lord's  anointed."  I  hope  you  recognize 
that  saying.  We  are  under  promise 
that  we  will  not  do  it.  We  should 
speak  that  which  is  good,  not  that 
which  is  evil.  And  we  should  hesitate 
when  we  find  an  opportunity,  or  when 
some  circumstance  arises  which  might 
induce  us  to  say  something  that  would 
be  improper  in  regard  to  our  brethren. 
James  says:  "The  tongue  is  a  fire,  a 
world  of  iniquity,"  it  "setteth  on  fire 
the  course  of  nature;  and  it  is  set  on 
fire  of  hell."  We  hear  a  great  deal 
of  talk  among  the  Methodists  about 
hell  fire.  If  you  want  to  know  what 
hell  fire  is,  just  hear  some  angry  wo- 
man when  she  is  rattling  that  little 
red  rag — the  tongue.  I  mean  the  man 
as  well;  for  I  do  not  confine  it  to  the 
sisters.  I  believe  I  have  heard  worse 
things  from  the  mouths  of  men  than 
from  the  lips  of  women.  I  do  not  con- 
fine it  to  the  one  sex.  Perhaps  it  is 
"six  of  one  and  half  a  dozen  of  the 
other." 

We  should  be  careful  what  we  say. 
If  we  cannot  say  anything  good,  let 
us  hold  our  tongues,  and  do  as  the 
mother  sometimes  roughly  tells  the 
children:  "Shut  your  mouth."  It  is  a 
good  thing  to  be  able  to  shut  your 
mouth,  and  to  keep  it  shut,  when  you 
ought  not  to  talk;  and  it's  a  good  thing 
to  be  able  to  ODen  your  mouth  at  the 
proper  time  ani  at  the  proper  season 
and  bring  forth  words  of  eternal  life 
for  the  blessing,  enlightenment,  com- 
fort, and  consolation  of  the  sons  of 
men.  When  Christ  spoke  He  spoke 
words  of  life.    "My  words  that  I  speak 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


unto  you,  they  are  spirit  and  they 
are  life,"  He  said.  And  they  were. 
He  brought  forth  words  of  eternal  life 
for  the  guidance  and  blessing  of  man- 
kind. "When  He  did  rebuke,  His  words 
were  sharp — sharper  than  a  two-edged 
sword;  but  He  didn't  rebuke  unless 
there  was  a  proper  occasion.  He  had 
authority  and  power  to  use  words  of 
rebuke  as  well  as  of  comfort  and  of  en- 
lightenment. Let  us  take  care  that 
when  we  speak  we  speak  to  good  pur- 
pose, for  light  and  for  truth,  and  to 
comfort  and  bless  humanity,  not  to 
speak  evil  of  our  brethren  or  of  our 
sisters.  This  is  very  common  advice, 
but  I  fear  we  "take  advice"  very  often 
and  do  not  put  it  to  use. 

When  I  contemplate  what  God  has 
done  in  the  building  up  of  this  latter- 
day  work  to  the  present  time,  I  feel 
full  of  joy  and  gladness.  And  these 
things  are  prophetic  to  me  of  the  fu- 
ture. I  know,  as  I  know  that  I  am 
here,  that  this  work  will  go  forward. 
It  does  not  matter  what  men  may  do  or 
say  in  regard  to  us;  God  is  our  Father 
and  He  is  at  the  head  of  this  work.  He 
revealed  it  in  the  beginning.  He  placed 
His  Son  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer, 
at  the  head  of  this  work,  to  conduct  it 
from  that  time  forward;  and  He  has 
been  with  it  to  the  present  day.  He  is 
with  our  brethren  who  have  been  call- 
ed to  stand  at  the  head  of  affairs.  His 
spirit  rests  upon  them;  His  light  is 
in  their  souls,  and  their  words  are 
inspired  of  Him.  And  He  will  con- 
tinue to  be  and  abide  with  this  work 
until  it  is  perfected,  and  He  can  pre- 
sent it  to  the  Father  as  an  accomplish- 
ed and  perfect  work.  But  there  is  a 
great  deal  to  do  before  that  time  shall 
come.  This  Gospel  of  the  kingdom  is 
to  be  preached  in  all  the  world  as  a 
witness  to  all  nations.  We  should  be 
glad  when  our  sons,  our  brothers,  our 
fathers,  or  any  of  our  friends,  are  call- 
ed upon  to  go  out  into  the  world  and 
lift  up  their  voice  in  the  proclamation 
of  this  last  divine  message  to  man.  "We 
should  rejoice  in  their  labors,  and  be 
willing  to  make  what  we  call  sacrifices 
for  their  sake  and  for  the  sake  of  man- 
kind. Every  man  who  holds  the  Priest- 
hood  should  be  willing  and   glad  to 


work  anywhere  in  this  kingdom  for 
the  salvation  and  redemption  of  the 
human  family.  This  Gospel  will  be 
preached,  no  matter  what  laws  may  be 
enacted  in  the  nations  that  are  afar  off. 
No  matter  what  barriers  may  be  raised 
for  the  time  being,  they  will  all  be 
swept  out  of  the  way  by  the  power  of 
God,  in  His  due  time;  and  this  Gospel 
will  be  preached,  Israel  will  be  gath- 
ered, temples  will  be  reared  and  min- 
istrations will  go  on  therein  for  the 
benefit  of  the  living  and  the  redemp- 
tion of  the  dead.* 

As  our  brethren  finish  their  earthly 
work,  and  their  bodies  are  laid  down 
to  rest  for  a  while,  to  be  purged  in  the 
tomb,  they  will  go  forth  in  the  spirit, 
as  Christ  did,  and  as  the  Prophet 
Joseph  and  his  brother  Hyrum  and  the 
rest  of  the  valiant  servants  have  done, 
and  publish  the  Gospel  to  the  spirits 
that  are  behind  the  veil.  A  mighty 
work  is  going  on  there,  and  as  our 
brethren  depart  hence  and  their  places 
are  taken  up  by  their  posterity,  they 
will  carry  on  this  work  in  the  spirit 
world,  where  there  is  a  wider  sphere 
for  their  operations  than  here  in  the 
flesh.  And  they  will  find  that  much 
of  the  seed  that  has  been  sown  in  mor- 
tality among  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
which  has  not  appeared  to  fructify,  or 
to  bring  forth  fruit  (for  many  people 
have  heard  the  word  and  have  not 
obeyed  it,  but  have  gone  down  to  the 
grave  in  their  darkness)  will  come  to 
life  and  light  and  power  in  the  world 
behind  the  veil.  Thousands  upon 
tiiousands  who  have  heard  the  Gospel, 
but  have  not  obeyed  it,  will  be  ready 
to  receive  it  when  the  servants  of  God 
present  it  to  them  in  the  spheres  be- 
hind the  veil.  The  work  of  God  will  be 
carried  on  there,  and  the  work  of  the 
ordinances  will  be  performed  in  this 
sphere,  in  the  temples  that  are  and 
will  be  erected.  "We  have  only  begun 
this  great  work,  notwithstanding  the 
many  thousands  of  vicarious  ordi- 
nances that  have  been  performed.  This 
work  will  go  on.  It  is  a  mighty  wo  k, 
and  you  and  I  can  be  engaged  in  It.  We 
should  be  glad  to  labor  in  any  capacity 
and  in  any  place  where  we  can  do 
something  toward  the  building  up  of 


PRESIDENT  JC 

the  kingdom  of  God  and  the  redemption 
of  the  human  family.  This  work  must 
go  on  until  all  nations  and  peoples  an  i 
tribes  and  tongues  on  the  earth,  behind 
the  veil  and  wherever  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  Adam  are,  have  heard  the 
sound  of  the  Gospel  and  have  had  the 
opportunity  of  bowing  in  obedience  to 
it.  Until  that  is  done  this  work  cannot 
be  consummated.  It  will  go  on,  with 
Christ  at  the  head,  until  every  knee 
shall  bow  and  every  tongue  confess 
that  Jesus  is  the  Lord,  to  the  glory 
of  God  the  Father. 

This  is  a  work  in  which  we  should 
rejoice  with  all  our  souls,  and  be  will- 
ing to  labor  in  it  wherever  we  may  be 
directed  by  that  authority  that  has 
come  down  from  God.  I  rejoice  in  the 
work  of  God  with  all  my  heart.  I 
have  done  so  ever  since  I  embraced  it. 
I  am  willing  today,  as  I  have  ever 
been,  to  go  here  or  there  and  to  labor 
in  any  direction.  The  man  who  is  not 
willing  to  labor  as  a  deacon  is  not  fit 
to  be  a  president.  A  man  who  will 
not  work  in  a  humble  capacity  is  not 
fit  to  be  exalted.  The  Lord  will  bless 
our  labors  in  time  and  in  eternity,  and 
we  will  see  the  fruits  thereof  and  re- 
joice in  them  in  the  presence  of  our 
Father.  I  know  that  the  spirit  which 
has  been  with  us  in  this  conference 
is  the  light  of  the  Lord.  It  is  the  spirit 
that  proceeds  from  the  presence  of  God 
to  lighten  the  souls  of  men.  It  is  the 
light  of  Christ,  the  light  and  the  life  of 
the  world,  the  power  of  the  Lord.  It 
comes  from  His  presence;  it  fills  our 
souls  with  joy  and  peace;  it  strength- 
ens us  to  resist  the  evils  of  the  flesh 
and  to  overcome  Satan  and  his  works, 
and  it  will  be  and  abide  with  this 
Church  and  grow  brighter  and  brighter 
until  the  perfect  day. 

I  feel  in  my  soul  to  bless  and  praise 
the  Lord  for  His  goodness  to  me.  I 
bear  testimony  that  this  is  His  work, 
and  I  desire  to  labor  in  it  in  time  and 
in  eternity.  I  invoke  upon  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  the  blessing  and 
peace  of  Cod.  May  the  kingdom  of  God 
.go  forth,  as  it  will.  Roll  on,  thou 
glorious  kingdom  of  the  latter-days! 
Spread  wide  thy  light  and  thy  power, 
and  the  kingdoms  of  this  world  shall 


1EPH  F.  SMITH.  73 

bend  to  it;  the  powers  of  darkness  shall 
be  rebuked,  the  clouds  shall  roll  away, 
and  the  light  and  might  of  God  shall 
increase  in  the  earth  until  all  things 
are  subdued  unto  Him;  and  the  earth 
itself  shall  be  redeemed  and  shine  in 
the  glory  of  God,  and  Christ  shall  grace 
it  with  His  presence  and  crown  it  with 
His  glory.  May  God  help  us  to  be 
faithful  and  serve  Him  all  our  days 
and  finally  save  us  in  His  kingdom, 
for  Christ's  sake.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

A  profitable  and  enjnyRl  le  Conferenc — Privileges 
of  the  ppot>le —  I  he  Gospel  incl'des  temp  rnl  as 
well  as  spiritual  salvation— Offirial  statement 
sustained. 

I  have  been  delighted  throughout 
with  the  spirit  of  our  Conference  and 
with  the  instructions  that  have  been 
given  to  us  by  those  who  have  spoken. 
The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  been  mani- 
fest through  His  servants  who  have 
addressed  this  Conference.  I  feel  that 
we  have  had  a  precious  time,  and  that 
the  Lord  has  blessed  us  abundantly  by 
the  outpouring  of  His  Spirit,  by  the 
beautiful  weather  we  have  had  in  the 
main,  and  by  the  glorious  opportunity 
we  have  enjoyed  of  mingling  together, 
of  meeting  many  friends,  of  witnessing, 
by  our  presence  here,  our  interest  in  the 
work  of  the  Lord,  and  of  taking  part  in 
the  transaction  of  such  business  as  may 
properly  come  before  this  Conference. 
It  is  well  understood  that  we  meet  to- 
gether in  general  Conference  twice  a 
year  for  the  purpose  of  presenting  the 
names  of  those  who  have  been  chosen 
as  presiding  officers  in  the  Church,  and 
it  is  understood  that  those  who  occupy 
these  positions  are  dependent  upon  the 
voice  of  the  people  for  the  continuance 
of  the  authority,  the  rights  and  privi- 
leges they  exercise.  The  female  mem- 
bers of  this  Church  have  tne  same  priv- 
ilege of  voting  to  sustain  their  presid- 
ing officers  as  the  male  members  of  the 
Church,  and  the  vote  of  a  sister  in  good 
standing  counts  in  every  way  equal 
with  the  vote  of  a  brother.  The  presen- 
tation of  the  Church  authorities  is  part 
of  the  duty  that  remains  to  be  done  be- 
fore this  Conference  is  brought  to  a 
close.    Other  business  will  also  be  pre- 


74 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


sented  to  the  Conference,  which  may 
be  considered  by  some  as  of  greater 
importance  than  the  rest.  We  desire 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  will  exer- 
cise the  liberty  wherewith  they  have 
been  made  free  by  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ;  for  they  are  entitled  to  know 
the  right  from  the  wrong-,  to  see  the 
truth  and  draw  the  line  between  it  and 
error;  and  it  is  their  privilege  to  judge 
for  themselves  and  to  act  upon  their 
own  free  agency  with  regard  to  their 
choice  as  to  sustaining  or  otherwise 
those  who  should  exercise  the  presid- 
ing functions  among  them.  We  desire 
the  Latter-day  Saints  at  this  Confer- 
ence to  exercise  their  prerogative, which 
is,  to  vote  as  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
prompts  them  on  the  measures  and  the 
men  that  may  be  presented  unto  them. 

It  is  not  my  purpose  to  prolong  re- 
marks. We  are  living  in  peculiar 
times.  The  situation  in  which  we  are 
placed  calls  for  peculiar  wisdom  and 
understanding,  and  for  the  full  exercise 
of  our  rights  as  Latter-day  Saints,  who 
should  enjoy  the  spirit  or  discernment 
and  inspiration  that  belong  to  those 
who  are  born  of  the  water  and  the  Spir- 
it, and  who,  because  of  this  birth,  are 
in  a  position  to  see  the  kingdom  of 
heaven. 

At  this  point  President  Smith  gave 
out  notice  of  an  important  meeting  of 
cattle  and  sheep  men  to  be  held  in  the 
city,  and  then  spoke  as  follows: 

We  may  be  pardoned  for  giving  out 
a  notice  of  this  kind  upon  this  occa- 
sion, but  it  will  not  be  amiss  for  me 
to  say  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  be- 
lieve not  only  in  the  gospel  of  spiritual 
salvation,  but  also  in  the  gospel  of 
temporal  salvation.  We  have  to  look 
after  the  cattle  and  the  sheep  and  the 
horses,  the  gardens  and  the  farms,  the 
irrigation  canals  and  ditches,  and  other 
necessary  things  for  the  maintenance  of 
ourselves  and  our  families  in  the  earth. 
In  this  respect  this  Church  is  different 
from  many  other  denominations.  We  do 
not  feel  that  it  is  possible  for  men  to 
be  really  good  and  faithful  Christian 
people  unless  they  can  also  be  good, 
faithful,  honest  and  industrious  people. 
Therefore,  we  preach  the  gospel  of  in- 
dustry, the  gospel  of  economy,  the  gos- 


pel of  sobriety.  We  preach  that  the 
idler  shall  not  eat  the  bread  of  the  la- 
borer, and  that  the  idler  is  not  entitled 
to  an  inheritance  in  Zion.  We  preach 
that  those  who  are  industrious,  those 
who  work,  those  who  through  their  in- 
tegrity and  industry  are  good  citizens 
of  the  kingdom  of  God,  are  better  citi- 
zens of  the  country  in  which  they  live 
than  those  who  are  not  so  diligent  in 
this  regard. 

Let  me.  say  to  the  brethren  and  sis- 
ters before  we  part:  When  you  go 
home  do  not  only  be  faithful  in  your 
prayers,  in  secret  and  in  public;  do  not 
only  be  faithful  as  good  church-goers; 
but  be  faithful  to  your  families,  be 
faithful  to  your  flocks  and  to  your 
herds,  be  faithful  in  the  management 
of  your  farms,  and  in  the  promotion 
and  conduct  of  every  enterprise  in 
which  you  are  engaged.  I  would  to  the- 
Lord  that  we  had  a  thousand  good  engi- 
neers, mechanics,  surveyors  and  other 
skilled  workmen  among  us.  We  could 
find  employment  today  for  hundreds  of 
our  people  where  honesty  and  faithful 
devotion  to  labor  are  demanded,  if  we 
only  had  the  men  who  were  skilled  in 
the  work  that  is  required;  but  we  do 
not  have  them.  When  we  are  applied 
to  for  men  as  boiler  makers,  as  engi- 
neers, as  builders,  as  skilled  workmen 
in  other  directions,  and  we  send  out 
inquiries  for  them,  we  cannot  find  them. 
The  boys  are  learning  something  else 
instead  of  the  arts  of  laoor.  I  have 
heard  it  said  that  science  is  what  we 
know,  and  art  is  what  we  know  how 
to  do. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 

President  Smith  presented  the  general 
authorities  of  the  Church  to  be  voted 
for  by  the  assembly,  as  follows: 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  Prophet,  Seer  and 
Revelator  and  President  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

John  R.  Winder,  as  first  counselor  in 
the  First  Presidency;  Anthon  H.  Lund, 
as  second  counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency. 

Francis  M.  Lyman,  as  President  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles. 

As  members  of  the  Council  of  Twelve 
Apostles:     Francis    M.   Lyman,  John 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


75 


Henry  Smith,  George  Teasdale,  Heber 
J.  Grant,  John  W.  Taylor,  Marriner  W. 
Merrill,  Matthias  F.  Cowley,  Abraham 
O.  Woodruff,  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  Hyrum  M.  Smith  and  George  A. 
Smith. 

John  Smith,  as  presiding  Patriarch 
of  the  Church. 

The  counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the 
presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers 
and  Revelators. 

First  seven  presidents  of  Seventies: 
Seymour  B.  Young,  Christian  D.  Fjeld- 
sted,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  George 
Reynolds,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon 
S.  Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 

William  B.  Preston,  as  presiding 
Bishop,  with  Robert  T.  Burton  and  Or- 
rin  P.  Miller  as  his  first  and  second 
counselors. 

Joseph  F.  Smith  as  trustee-in-trust 
for  the  body  of  religious  worshipers 
known  as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  Church  historian 
and  general  Church  recorder. 

Andrew  Jenson,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  A. 
Milton  Musser  and  Brigham  H.  Roberts, 
assistant  historians. 

As  members  of  the  general  Church 
board  of  education:  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
Willard  Young,  Anthon  H.  Lund,  James 
Sharp,  John  Nicholson,  George  H. 
Brimhall,  Rudger  Clawson,  Joseph  M. 
Tanner  and  John  R.  Winder. 

John  Nicholson,  as  clerk  of  the  Con- 
ference. 

THE  TABERNACLE  CHOIR. 
President    and    director— Evan  Ste-< 
phens. 

First  counselor,  treasurer  and  librar- 
ian—George C.  Smith. 

Second  counselor  and  secretary— Sid- 
ney R.  Phillips. 

Organist— John  J.  McClellan,  and  all 
the  members  of  the  choir. 

The  voting  was  completely  in  the  af- 
firmative. 

PRESIDENT  SMITH. 

Brethren  and  sisters.  Of  course  you 
cannot  help  but  have  noticed  that  some 
of  our  brethren  have  been  absent  from 
us.  I  regret  very  much  the  absence  of 
a  number    of   the   Apostles.     We  are 


all  sorry  that  circumstances  have  pre- 
vented them  from  meeting  with  us.  El- 
der John  Henry  Smith  has  been  suf- 
fering for  some  time  from  inflamma- 
tory rheumatism  and  is  still  confined  to 
his  room.  Elder  George  Teasdale  re- 
ceived permisison  to  retire  from  active 
duty  over  two  months  ago,  and  when 
he  left  us  was  in  feeble  health.  Elder 
Marriner  W.  Merrill  has  been  prostrat- 
ed for  some  time  in  his  home  at  Cache 
valley.  These  brethren  have  our  sym- 
pathy and  our  prayers  for  their  re- 
covery. I  regret  also  the  absence  from 
this  conference  of  Elders  John  W.  Tay- 
lor and  Matthias  F.  Cowley. 

Now  I  am  going  to  present  a  matter 
to  you  that  is  unusual  and  I  do  it  be- 
cause of  a  conviction  which  I  feel  that 
it  is  a  proper  thing  for  me  to  do.  I 
have  taken  the  liberty  of  having  writ- 
ten down  what  I  wish  to  present,  in 
order  that  I  may  say  to  you  the  exact 
words  which  I  would  like  to  have  con- 
veyed to  your  ears,  that  I  may  not  be 
misunderstood  or  misquoted.  I  present 
this  to  the  conference  for  your  ac- 
tion: 

OFFICIAL  STATEMENT. 

"Inasmuch  as  there  are  numerous  re- 
ports in  circulation  that  plural  mar- 
riages have  been  entered  into  contrary 
to  the  official  declaration  of  President 
Woodruff,  of  September  26,  1890,  com- 
monly called  the  Manifesto,  which  was 
issued  by  President  Woodruff  and 
adopted  by  the  Church  at  its  ganeral 
conference,  October  6,  1890,  which  for- 
bade any  marriages  violative  of  the  law 
of  the  land;  I,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  oi 
Latter-day  Saints,  hereby  affirm  and 
declare  that  no  such  marriages  have 
been  solemnized  with  the  sanction,  con- 
sent or  knowledge  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and 

"I  hereby  announce  that  all  such 
marriages  are  prohibited,  and  if  any 
officer  or  member  of  the  Church  shalV 
assume  to  solemnize  or  enter  into  any 
such  marriage  he  will  be  deem°d  in 
transgression  against  the  Church  and 
will  be  liable  to  be  dealt  with,  according 
to  the  rules  and  regulations  thereof,  and 
excommunicated  therefrom. 

"JOSEPH  F.  SMITH, 
"President   of   the    Church   of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints." 

They  charge  us  with  being  dishonest 
and  untrue  to  our  word.  They  charge 
the   Church   with   having   violated  a 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


"compact,"  and  all  this  sort  of  non- 
sense. I  -want  to  see  today  whether 
the  Latter-day  Saints  representing  the 
Church  in  this  solemn  assembly  will 
not  seal  these  charges  as  false  by  their 
vote. 

President  Francis  M.  Lyman  pre- 
sented the  following  resolution  and 
moved  its  adoption: 

RESOLUTION  OF  ENDORSEMENT. 

"Resolved  that  we,  the  members  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  in  General  Conference  as- 
sembled, hereby  approve  and  endorse 
the  statement  and  declaration  of  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith,  just  made  to  this 
Conference  concerning  plural  mar- 
riages, and  will  support  the  courts  of 
the  Church  in  the  enforcement  there- 
of." 

The  resolution  was  seconded  by  a 
number  of  Presidents  of  Stakes  and 
prominent  Elders.  Elder  B.  H.  Roberts, 
in  seconding  the  resolution,  spoke  as 
follows: 

"In  seconding  the  resolution  that  has 
just  been  read — which  I  most  heartily 
do — I  desire  to  state  at  least  one  reason 
for  doing  it.  As  remarked  by  the 
president,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  has  been  accused 
of  being  covenant-breakers  with  this 
nation.  Of  course,  there  never  was,  and 
could  not  be,  any  compact  between  the 
Church  and  the  general  government 
of  the  United  States.  But  there  could 
be  a  compact  between  the  State .  of 
Utah  and  the  United  States,  and  there 
was  such  a  compact  made  in  the  Con- 
stitution of  our  state,  by  and  through 
the  Constitutional  Convention.  And 
now  I  am  pleased  with  the  opportunity 
of  the  Church  saying  in  its  official  ca- 
pacity that  the  Latter-day  Saints  not 
only  now  are,  but  have  been,  true  to 
the  compact  between  the  State  of  Utah 
and  the  United  States.,  and  that  they 
are  true  to  the  Constitution  of  the 
state,  which,  by  express  provision,  for- 
.  ever  prohibited  plural  or  polygamous 
marriages,  and  made  that  irrevocable, 
without  the  consent  of  the  United 
States.  The  adoption  bv  the  Church 
of  this  resolution  should  put  to  sil- 
ence those  who  have  accused  us  of  be- 
ing covenant-breakers." 

The  resolution  was  then  adopted,  by 
unanimous  vote  of  the  Conference. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

This  statement  which  has  just  been 
read  in  your  hearing  was  made  for  the 
Church.  Rumors  have  been  afloat  that 
plural  marriages  have  taken  place,  and 


some  are  said  to  have  commenced  to 
doubt  the  truth  of  the  declaration 
made  by  our  President  at  Washington. 
Now  it  has  been  laid  before  you,  and 
the  Church,  by  its  vote  in  solemn  as- 
sembly, has  ratified  this  resolution,  and 
the  Saints  know  just  where  the  Church 
stands  on  this  question.  If  any  come  to 
you  with  such  rumors,  you  know  that 
the  Church  is  true  to  that  which  it  ac- 
cepted thirteen  years  and  six  months 
ago,  and  which  it  has  again  ratified 
here  in  this  Conference.  It  is  not  a  new 
manifesto.  It  simply  shows  where  we 
stand  as  a  Church.  The  Lord  has  in- 
stituted in  this  Church  the  principle  of 
free  agency.  Everything  must  be  done 
by  common  consent,  and  therefore  we 
lay  these  things  before  the  conferences, 
that  the  people  may  have  an  opportu- 
nity to  vote  thereupon.  This  is  an  im- 
portant matter,  and  should  be  known 
by  the  world  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
have  the  right  and  privilege  to  vote  up- 
on everything  that  shall  be  accepted  as 
Church  doctrine  or  in  regard  to  church 
government. 

I  feel  pleased  with  our  conference, 
with  the  spirit  thereof,  and  with  the  in- 
structions that  have  been  given.  Let 
us  take  what  we  have  heard  home  with 
us;  let  us  take  the  spirit  of  the  con- 
ference with  us,  and  try  to  carry  out  in 
our  daily  lives  the  good  counsel  which 
has  been  given  us.  May  the  Lord 
bless  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  and 
bless  His  Church  upon  the  earth,  as 
well  as  all  good  people  and  all  who  love 
the  truth,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOHN  R.  WINDER. 

Jo-'  ph  and  H\rum  Men  Tim 

President  Lund  has  expressed  my 
feelings  exactly  in  regard  to  this  resolu- 
tion. I  am  proud  to  have  the  opportu- 
nity of  voting  for  it. 

There  is  one  more  item  of  business  that 
I  want  to  lay  before  the  Conference,  in 
which  I  think  we  are  all  greatly  inter- 
ested, and  I  have  no  doubt  you  will  sus- 
tain the  proposition  when  you  hear  it. 
It  is  almost  sixty  years  now  since  the 
martyrdom  of  the  Prophet  and  Patri- 
arch, Joseph  and  Hyrum  Smith,  and 
until  this  day  no  building  or  monu- 


PRESIDENT  JOHN  R.  WINDER. 


77 


ment  has  been  erected  to  their  mem- 
ory. This  matter  has  been  talked  over 
many  times,  and  several  propositions 
have  been  made.  At  one  time  it  was 
suggested  that  a  building  be  erected  on 
the  old  Deseret  News  corner,  which 
should  be  called  a  memorial  building. 
At  least  one  other  suggestion  has  been 
made,  that  a  monument  or  a  memorial 
building  should  be  erected  on  the 
southeast  corner  of  this  block.  No  defi- 
nite place,  as  yet,  has  been  fixed  for  it. 
But  I  have  been  impressed  that  the 
time  has  come  when  some  steps  should 
be  taken  with  regard  to  this  matter.  I 
would  like  to  see  a  building,  or  monu- 
ments, or  statues,  erected  in  honor  of 
these  martyrs  that  would  be  something 
for  our  children  to  look  at  in  years  to 
come.  Opposite  the  southeast  corner  of 
this  block  we  have  erected  a  monu- 
ment to  President  Brigham  Young,  and 
I  would  like  to  see  something  erected 
to  these  martyrs  that  would  be  an  ob- 
ject lesson  to  our  children  and  our  chil- 
dren's children  throughout  all  genera- 
tions, and  also  to  the  thousands  of  peo- 
ple who  visit  us,  that  they  too  may 
have  something  of  this  kind  to  look  at. 
Therefore,  I  am  strongly  in  favor  of  do- 
ing something  to  perpetuate  the  mem- 
ory of  the  Prophet  and  Patriarch,  and 
with  this  in  view  I  have  prepared  a 
resolution,  which  I  will  read  to  you: 

"Whereas  nearly  sixty  years  have 
passed  since  the  martyrdom  of  the  Pro- 
phet and  Patriarch  Joseph  and  Hyrum 
Smith,  and  no  public  building  or  monu- 


ment has  been  erected  to  their  memory; 

"Therefore,  Be  it  Resolved  by  this 
General  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  That 
a  suitable  building  or  monument  be 
erected  to  their  memory;  that  the  Trus- 
tee-in-Trust  appoint  a  committee  to 
prepare  plans  for  the  same,  which  shall 
be  submitted  to  him,  and  when  ap- 
proved he  will  authorize  the  committee 
to  proceed  with  the  work  and  will  fur- 
nish the  necessary  means  from  such 
funds  as  may  be  available  for  that  pur- 
pose, and  that  a  book  be  opened  at  the 
Presiding  Bishop's  Office  to  receive  vol- 
untary subscriptions  from  any  who 
wish  to  donate." 

After  reading  the  resolution,  Presi- 
dent Winder  moved  its  adoption. 

It  was  seconded  by  President  Francis 
M.  Lyman  and  a  number  of  others,  and 
was  adopted  by  the  conference  without 
a  dissenting  vote. 

President  Smith  named  as  the  com- 
mittee President  John  R.  Winder,  chair- 
man; President  Francis  M.  Lyman, 
Bishop  Wm.  B.  Preston  and  Bishop 
George  Romney,  and  they  were  unani- 
mously sustained  by  the  conference. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

"Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with 
Jehovah." 

Benediction  by  Elder  John  Nicholson. 
The  conference  then  adjourned  for 
six  months. 

The  stenographic  work  in  taking  an 
account  of  the  proceedings  was  done 
by  Arthur  Winter. 

JOHN  NICHOLSON, 
Clerk  of  Conference. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


Its  Semi-Annual  Conference,  Held  in  the  Tabernacle, 
Sunday  Evening.  October  3.  1904. 


The  general  semi-annual  conference 
of  the  Sunday  Schools  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was 
held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Sunday,  April  3,  1904,  at  7  o'clock  p. 
m. 

General  Superintendent  Joseph  F. 
Smith  presided. 

There  were  present  of  the  general  au- 
thorities: Presidents  Joseph  F.  Smith 
and  Anthon  H.  Lund;  Elders  Francis 
M.  Lyman,  Abraham  O.  Woodruff, 
Rudger  Clawson,  Hyrum  M.  Smith, 
George  A.  Smith  of  the  Quorum  of  the 
Apostles;  Patriarch  John  Smith;  a  ma- 
jority of  the  Deseret  Sunday  School 
Union  Board.  The  Tabernacle  was 
crowded  with  an  enthusiastic  audience 
of  Sunday  School  workers  and  Saints. 

The  congregation,  under  the  leader- 
ship of  Prof.  Evan  Stephens,  sang  "If 
There's  Sunshine  in  your  Heart." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Abraham 
O.  Woodruff. 

The  song,  "Peace,  be  Still"  was  then 
sung  by  the  Granite  Stake  adult  class, 
under  the  direction  of  Prof.  Evan 
Stephens. 

Secretary  Geo.  D.  Pyper  called  the 
roll  of  stakes  which  showed  a  represen- 
tation from  every  stake  of  Zion  and 
three  missions. 

The  secretary  presented  the  officers 
of  the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union, 
who  were  sustained  as  follows:  Gen- 
eral superintendent,  Joseph  F.  Smith; 
first  assistant  general  superintendent, 
George  Reynolds;  second  assistant  gen- 
eral superintendent,  Joseph  M.  Tanner. 
Members  of  the  board:  Elders  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  George  Reynolds,  Joseph  M. 
Tanner,  Joseph  W.  Summerhays,  Levi 
W.  Richards,  Francis  M.  Lyman,  Heber 
J.  Grant,  George  Teasdale,    Hugh  J. 


Cannon,  Andrew  Kimball,  John  W. 
Taylor,  L.  John  Nuttall,  James  W.  Ure, 
John  F.  Bennett,  John  M.  Mills,  Wil- 
liam D.  Owen,  Seymour  B.  Young, 
George  D.  Pyper,  Henry  Peterson,  An- 
thon H.  Lund,  John  R.  Winder,  Jas.  E. 
Talmage,  George  M.  Cannon,  Horace 
Cummings,  Abraham  O.  Woodruff.  Gen- 
eral secretary,  George  D.  Pyper;  treas- 
urer, George  Reynolds;  business  man- 
ager and  assistant  general  secretary, 
William  A.  Morton;  editor  Juvenile  In- 
structor, Joseph  F.  Smith;  assistant  ed- 
itors, George  Reynolds  and  Joseph  M. 
Tanner;  business  manager,  George  D. 
Pyper. 

Miss  Margaret  Summerhays,  Noel 
Pratt  and  Wood  Pratt  of  Granite  Stake 
then  sang  the  trio,  "O  Restless  Sea." 

Elder  William  D.  Owen  of  the  Deseret 
Sunday  School  Union  board  then  read 
an  editorial  from  the  Juvenile  Instruc- 
tor of  Jan.  1,  1904,  on  the  subject  of 
''Harmony  between  presiding  authori- 
ties in  the  Priesthood  and  in  anxiliary 
organizations." 

The  choir  sang,  "Rouse,  O  ye  Mor- 
tals." 

JOSEPH  W.  SUMMERHAYS. 
I  am  requested  to  make  a  few  re- 
marks and  a  short  report  on  the  fea- 
tures of  our  Sunday  School  work  for 
1904,  viz., district  Sunday  School  conven- 
tions. 

We  have  already  held  three  of  these 
district  conventions,  one  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  comprising  Tooele,  Salt  Lake,  Da- 
vis, Granite  and  Jordan  stakes;  one  in 
Weber,  comprising  Weber,  Summit, 
Morgan  and  Box  Elder  stakes;  and  an- 
other in  Provo,  taking  in  the  Utah,  Al- 
pine, Nebo,  Wasatch  and  Juab  stakes. 
And  in  all  of  these  conventions  we  have 
had  a  most  glorious  time. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


79 


In  behalf  of  the  Sunday  School  Board, 
we  can  say  that  every  one  of  them  was 
a  grand  success. 

The  work  in  these  conventions  is  al- 
together different  to  what  is  done  in  our 
Stake  conferences.  In  the  conventions, 
after  the  general  opening  exercises, 
we  take  up  department  work,  dividing 
the  convention  into  some  eight  depart- 
ments. We  will  take,  for  instance,  the 
theological  department.  We  get  the 
department  workers  and  teachers  and 
all  interested  in  the  theological  depart- 
ments of  the  various  schools,  together; 
and  there  we  read  and  discuss  papers 
on  different  topics.  And  we  have  found 
that  great  good  has  resulted  from  these 
conventions,  one  of  the  greatest  advan- 
tages being  that  every  one  attending 
has  gone  away  from  them  to  their  re- 
spective homes  with  a  greater  deter- 
mination to  do  their  duty  as  Sunday 
School  people. 

Now  it  is  proposed  that  we 
hold  like  conventions  throughout 
all  the  Stakes.  We  intend  to  district 
the  Stakes  into  suitable  convention  dis- 
tricts, and  during  this  summer,  and 
perhaps  early  fall,  we  will  visit  each 
one  of  the  districts  and  hold  a  conven- 
tion. When  I  say  "we,"  I  mean  the 
general  board  of  the  Sunday  School 
Union. 

That  we  may  be  better  able  to  dis- 
trict the  various  stakes,  we  will  hold  a 
meeting  in  the  Barratt  hall  .next  Tues- 
day afternoon  at  4:30  o'clock,  where  we 
hope  to  meet  with  the  superintendents 
of  each  stake,  together  with  their  as- 
sistants; and  if  the  stake  superintend- 
ents and  their  assistants  are  not  pres- 
ent at  this  conference,  from  any  of  the 
stakes,  we  would  like  some  representa- 
tive. We  understand  that  some  of  the 
stakes  of  Zion  are  represented  here 
tonight  by  their  secretaries  and  other 
persons,  and  we  would  like  the  meeting 
next  Tuesday  afternoon  to  have  a  rep- 
resentation from  each  stake,  so  that  we 
can  make  the  districting  as  complete 
as  possible.  We  are  sure,  my  brethren, 
that  much  good  will  result  if  you  will 
attend  and  help  us. 

I  think  this  fairly  represents  the  sit- 
uation, and  it  is  not  necessary  to  en- 


large upon  it.  May  God  bless  us  and 
help  us  to  do  His  will,  I  ask,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Elder  George  Hamlin  then  recited, 
"New  Century  Sonnets." 

The  Juvenile  choir  of  the  Granite 
Stake  sang, 

"Let  us  all  press  on  in  the  work  of 
the  Lord." 

Prof.  Evan  Stephens,  in  explaining 
methods  in  teaching  the  little  ones, 
comprising  this  choir,  and  also  the 
youths  that  constituted  the  choir  that 
rendered  the  previous  exercises  of  the 
evening,  stated  that  those  present  con- 
stituted but  about  one-half  of  the  full 
classes  from  which  they  were  taken. 
They  had  received  lessons  only  since 
about  the  first  of  the  year,  one  lesson 
per  week,  to  which  they  had  come 
through  mud  and  slush,  in  various 
kinds  of  weather.  He  thought  they 
were  a  fair  representation  of  the  class- 
es, and  showed  what  might  readily  be 
done  in  other  rural  stakes  of  Zion,  out- 
side of  the  cities,  by  those  who  were 
willing  and  able  to  work  in  this  direc- 
tion. He  stated  that  about  one  dozen 
earnest  active  workers,  who  had  taken 
an  excellent  course  in  the  Chorister's 
class  in  the  Latter-day  Saints'  Univer- 
sity, were  about  to  return  to  their  vari- 
ous homes  in  the  several  stakes,  and 
these  should  be  given  work  in  this  line 
of  most  profitable  service  to  our  young 
people.    He  said,  further: 

"We  are  aiming,  with  the  smaller  peo- 
ple, to  teach  them  songs  that  will  ap- 
peal strongly  to  them  from  the  stand- 
point of  sentiment.  The  "Cause  of 
Truth"  is  not  taken  hit  or  miss,  but 
with  an  aim.  Another  song  we  sing  is 
"Have  Courage,  My  Boy,  to  say  No." 
That  also  tells  its  own  story.  The  other 
one,  to  be  given  this  evening,  is  "Whis- 
pering Hope."  Outside  of  the  senti- 
ment, we  try  to  teach  them  to  sing 
parts,  that  is,  to  learn  to  harmonize  at 
once  in  part  singing,  and  in  this  all  the 
class  is  taught  to  sing  alto,  and  all  the 
class  is  taught  to  sing  treble.  I  want 
to  say  this,  that  children  should  not  be 
kept  singing  one  part  alone.  In  order 
to  develop  our  little  ones  as  they  ought 


80 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


to  be  developed,  they  should  sing  alto 
and  treble  alternately,  so  that  the  voice 
•will  have  proper  practice  through  the 
whole  range  from  the  top  to  the  bottom, 
and  for  this  reason  we  do  not  select 
certain  ones  for  altos,  for  they  are  all 
altos  and  all  trebles;  and  we  hope  that 
as  soon  as  they  have  grown  up,  there 
will  be  no  need  of  training  them  into 
the  singing  of  parts  for  they  have 
grown  up  to  it.  Some  have  complained 
about  the  little  boys  being  allowed  to 
sing  too  high.  We  have  some  here 
singing  up  to  what  we  call  high  G.  I 
claim  there  is  no  danger  in  having 
them  sing  high,  provided  they  are 
taught  to  sing  softly. 

For  the  purpose  of  exhibiting  his 
method,  Prof.  Stephens  had  all  the 
choir  sing  alto  the  first  verse,  the  sec- 
ond verse  all  sang  treble,  and  the  third 
verse,  the  north  half  sang  treble  and 
the  south  half  all  sang  alto.  In  the 
piece,  rendered  later  in  the  exercises, 
he  had  the  reverse  sides  sing  alto  and 
treble. 

PRESIDENT  F.  M.  LYMAN. 

The  exercises  of  the  children  from 
Granite  stake,  in  their  singing,  is  quite 
a  surprise  to  me,  and  a  delight.  I  have 
no  doubt  the  musical  people  connected 
with  the  Sunday  Schools  throughout 
Zion  will  profit  by  the  example  set  us 
tonight,  so  that  the  talents  of  the  young 
people  may  be  utilized  to  the  very  best 
advantage.  We  are  wonderfully  blessed 
with  talent  in  this  line  throughout  the 
Church,  and  we  have  not  only  the  tal- 
ent, but  we  have  the  love  and  appre- 
ciation also  of  the  labors  of  such  men 
as  Professor  Stephens,  and  we  are  very 
anxious — I  am  sure  the  General  Board 
is  very  anxious — that  all  may  be  made 
that  can  be  made  of  the  musical  talent 
with  which  the  Lord  has  blessed  His 
people;  for  singing,  and  good  singing 
particularly,  is  heavenly. 

There  is  hardly  any  soul  so  dull  or  in- 
different as  to  not  appreciate  choice 
singing.  The  world  delights  in  it,  as 
well  as  the  Saints.  It  is  an  accom- 
plishment that  will  adorn  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  throughout  the  world,  and  I 
have  no  doubt  but  that  we  shall  excel 


in  it  as  one  of  the  important  features 
of  the  Sunday  School  cause.  I  have 
felt  that  our  Sunday  School  work  is 
superior,  possibly,  to  that  accomplished 
by  any  other  people.  We  are  not  a 
very  numerous  people,  but  the  Sunday 
School  work  that  has  been  organized 
and  developed  within  the  last  40  years 
produces  what  we  see  here  tonight. 
Nothing  like  this  is  to  be  seen  in  the 
world  so  far  as  I  know;  such  a  body, 
of  possibly  eight  to  nine  thousand  peo- 
ple, gathered  together  here,  interest- 
ed in  the  Sunday  School  cause,  workers 
and  pupils,  a  whole  commuunity,  their 
hearts  beating  warmly  towards  this 
cause.  In  it,  by  these  associations  and 
organizations,  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel 
is  cultivated.  Music  is  refining;  and  it 
is  introduced  into  the  homes,  until  we 
find  that  in  every  home  in  Zion,  wheth- 
er there  be  musical  instruments  or  not, 
but  the  voices  will  be  trained,  and  our 
children  will  be  singers,  the  musical 
talent  will  be  developed  delightfully; 
and  what  is  more  pleasant  than  to  hear 
children  sing,  singly  and  also  collective- 
ly? What  is  there  more  cheerful  in  a 
home  and  in  our  social  gatherings?  I 
know  of  nothing  that  cheers  the  heart 
and  elevates  the  sentiment  of  the  soul 
of  men  or  women  equal  to  the  musical 
sentiment  and  talent,  if  it  is  cultivated. 
How  pleasant  it  is,  where  we  have  a 
mother  who  can  sing,  a  father  who 
can  sing,  brothers  that  can  sing,  sisters 
that  can  sing!  I  think  we  cannot  de- 
vote too  much  attention  and  time  to 
the  cultivation  of  the  musical  talent 
with  which  the  Lord  has  endowed  us. 
I  appreciate  that  the  Sunday  School  is 
developing  this  art  more  extensively 
and  generally  throughout  our  communi- 
ties, until  the  Latter-day  Saints  will 
be  recognized  as  the  musical  people  of 
the  world,  the  most  'remarkable  com- 
munity for  musical  talent;  and  the 
world  will  be  delighted,  as  they  are 
now.  They  come  to  us,  and  we  go 
to  them  with  our  music.  The  Taber- 
nacle choir,  under  the  direction  of  Prof. 
Stephens,  has  made  a  sensation 
throughout  the  United  States,  and  it 
is  anticipated  that  they  will  do  so  be- 
yond the  bounds  of  the  United  States. 


I 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL,  UNION. 


I  hope  they  will.  And  I  hope  that  the 
Lord  will  bless  Prof.  Stephens, and  bless 
those  who  follow  in  his  footsteps,  and 
take  up  the  labor  that  he  has  sug- 
gested now,  and  that  has  been  taken 
up,  for  there  are  many  among  us,  many 
others.  Prof.  Stephens  is  not  the  only 
one.  He  has  possibly  been  the  leading 
feature  or  factor  in  this  line,  but  there 
are  others  whose  hearts  and  souls  arc 
just  as  musical  as  is  Brother  Stephens' 
heart  and  soul,  and  we  want  to  avail 
ourselves  of  the  talent  that  we  have 
and  accomplish  everything  that  can  bo 
done  to  produce  joy  in  the  hearts  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  Lord  bless  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  I  do  not  feel  that  I  ought  to 
occupy  your  time.  But  may  the  Lord 
bless  you  and  may  we  sustain  and  en- 
courage our  young  children  and  those 
who  have  musical  talents  to  develop 
those  talents  until  we  shall  rejoice  ex- 
ceedingly in  it  before  the  Lord.  I  am 
sure  that  the  Lord  is  pleased  with  this 
effort  and  labor;  I  am  sure  that  the 
Lord  is  pleased  with  the  General  Sun- 
day School  board  and  with  the  labors 
of  the  people,  I  am  sure  that  He  re- 
joices therein,  and  the  angels  will  be 
delighted  with  the  music  that  will  be 
made  by  the  children  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 

May  that  spirit  and  inclination  in- 
crease in  our  hearts,  now  and  forever. 
I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  Juvenile  choir  of  the  Granite 
Stake  then  sang, 

"Have  Courage,  my  boy,  to  say  No." 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

Observing  this  choir  of  children,  it 
would  not  appear  that  Zion  is  growing 
less,  and  it  would  seem  to  me,  too,  that 
so  long  as  we  can  preserve  with  us  Bro- 
ther Stephens  and  a  few  others  of  his 
associates  who  are  engaged  in  this 
glorious  work  of  teaching  music,  both 
to  the  adults  and  to  the  children,  a  de- 
sire and  love  for  the  musical  will  also 
increase  in  the  midst  of  our  people.  I 
feel  that  the  parents  of  these  little  chil- 
dren owe  much  to  the  effort  of  Brother 
Stephens  in  his  labor  of  love,  in  teach- 
ing them  how  to  sing  and  developing 


81 

the  talent  for  music  which  lies  dormant 
within  them  and  needs  but  the  in- 
struction,the  teaching.the  guiding  hand 
and  voice  of  Brother  Stepnens  to  devel- 
op the  talent  that  they  have. 

It  delights  my  heart  to  see  our  little 
children  learning  to  sing,  and  to  see  thf. 
people,  our  neoole  everywhere,  improv- 
ing their  talenis  as  gcod  singers.  Every- 
where we  go  among  our  people,  we  find 
sweet  voices  and  talent  for  music.  I 
believe  that  this  is  a  manifestation  to 
us  of  the  purpose  of  the  Lord  in  this 
direction  toward  our  people,  that  they 
will  excel  in  these  things,  as  they 
should  excel  in  every  other  good  thing. 

I  do  not  arise  to  make  any  special 
remarks.  I  feel  gratified  at  seeing  this 
vast  concourse  of  people  here  this  eve- 
ning, interested  in  this  Sunday  School 
work,  and  I  hope,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  you  and  all  of  us  may  con- 
tinue to  keep  awake  our  interest  in  the 
Sunday  School  cause.  It  is  a  very  im- 
portant branch  of  our  spiritual  work, 
the  training  of  our  little  ones,  the 
training  of  our  Sunday  School  children 
and  all  parents  should  take  a  deep  in- 
terest in  this  work,  and  should  not 
spare  any  pains  in  making  ready  and  in 
giving  encouragement  to  their  children 
to  attend  the  Sunday  schools. 

God  bless  you  as  teachers  and  as 
Latter-day  Saints,  as  fathers  and  as 
mothers  of  these  precious  little  chil- 
dren who  have  been  given  to  us  to 
succeed  us,  eventually,  in  the  great 
labor  of  building  up  Zion  in  the  lat- 
ter-day. Bring  them  up  in  the  way 
that  they  should  go  that  they  will  not 
depart  from  that  way  when  th?y  g  ow 
old;  and  if  you  will  only  see  to  it  care- 
fully that  your  children  are  ta'  ght  in 
the  ways  of  righteousness,  that  they 
are  brought  up  in  the  paths  of  vir- 
tue and  peace  and  honor,  God  will 
magnify  you  before  the  nations  of  the 
world,  and  His  work  will  be  hastened 
in  its  time. 

God  bless  you  and  all  who  are  as- 
sociated in  the  work  of  the  Sabbath 
schools,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 
I  am  pleased  to  see  this  large  con- 


82 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


gregation,  all  interested  in  the  good 
work  of  the  Sunday  school. 

I  believe  that  all  have  been  pleased 
who  have  been  here  this  evening  to 
witness  what  we  have  seen  Brother 
Stephens  do  with  his  choir.  We  sang, 
"If  there's  sunshine  in  the  heart."  "We 
want  to  put  sunshine  into  the  hearts 
of  our  children.  Our  Sunday  School 
is  a  splendid  place  for  this,  and  by 
teaching  our  children  singing  we  will 
do  one  part  toward  it,  but  especially 
by  the  good  teaching  that  is  given.  In 
the  Sunday  School  we  lay  the  founda- 
tion for  our  children  to  always  be  in 
a  condition  that  they  may  have  sun- 
shine in  their  hearts.  We  want  to  in- 
stil in  their  hearts  and  lives  a  love  for 


the  beautiful,  a  love  for  music  and 
everything  that  tends  to  elevate.  This 
is  the  good  work  in  which  you,  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  are  engaged. 

May  the  Lord  prosper  you  in  your 
work,  give  you  much  joy  therein,  and 
may  you  see  the  children  of  Zion  grow 
up  strong  in  faith  and  in  the  love  of 
God,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  children's  choir  of  the  Granite 
stake  then  sang,  "Whispering  Hope." 
Benediction  by  Elder  John  B.  Maiben. 

GEORGE  D,  PYPER, 

General  Secretary. 
F.   E.  BARKER. 

Stenographer. 


Deseret  News 
Book  Store.. . 


State  Depository 
for  School  Books 


SCHOOL, 

STATIONERY 

SUPPLIES 


Kindergarten  and  Busy  Work  Materials. 
Largest  Stock  in  the  State, 
Lowest  wholesale  prices. 
Send  for  Price  Lists. 


Deseret  News  Building 

O  Main  Street 


Salt  Lake  eity,  Utah 


5  Over  5000  Copies  Sold  Since  Date  of  Issue.  m 

I  » 

I 

HISTORY  OF  CHURCH  $ 
i      VOL.  II  NOW  READY 

«  » 

i  I 

I  i 

M                       The    History  of  the    Prophet  ffi 

$q                  Joseph,  written  by  himself,  with  in-  M 

6  duction  and  notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts. 

Low  prices  have  been  fixed  by  91 

Sfij                  the  First  Presidency,  that  the  work  t$ 

jtf                  may  secure  the  widest  possible  circu-  ffi 

$                  lation.  SJ 

I  i 

Cloth  Embossed,  -     -  >-  ^$  1.50  Post  Paid  M 

ffl              Half  Morocco,  Gilt  Top,  -     -    2.50        "  r$ 

m             Half  Calf,  Gilt  Top,     -     -        2.50     *  M  ffi 

§3             Full  Morocco  Gilt,  -     -     -     4.00        "  gj 

ffi                     Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Fh 

jtf                  Quorum  and  Private  Library  should  ^ 

§1                  have  it.  M 


i — - — ^ — = 

DESERET  NEWS  BOOK  STORE  pj 

j$  6  Main  Street,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  m 

I 


